 
具有奈米級多孔性感測金屬合層之半導體氫氣感測器研究(I) 
 
中文摘要 
本年度計畫係以含二氧化矽(SiO2)之鈀金屬製作高靈敏度氮化鎵氫氣感測器。本研究係
將鈀金屬/氧化物混合物經由共蒸鍍後具有粗糙的表面。再對該混合物進行溼式蝕刻，以去除
混合物中之氧化物，於含氧內層上形成一具有 30 nm 之奈米級鈀金屬粒，並以此為感測金屬
層製作金屬-半導體-金屬氫氣感測器。實驗結果顯示：由於氧的存在，混合物內所補獲的氫原
子於小電壓時並不會改變能障高度。而經由溼式蝕刻之鈀金屬奈米粒可有效改善氫氣分子之分
解率、擴散速率及儲存能力。在氫氣濃度僅 2.13 ppm H2/N2 時，其感測靈敏度高於 105 且特性
均勻度高，而電壓改變大於 20V。此外，當偶極形成時，氫原子將經由鈀金屬奈米粒快速擴散
至含氧內層，致使反應時間相當短。 
 
英文摘要 
In this project, Pd-based mixtures comprising silicon dioxide (SiO2) were used as sensing 
materials in GaN-based hydrogen sensors. The mixture as co-evaporated shows a rough surface with 
many pores. After wet selectively etching SiO2, the mixture turns into Pd nanoparticles with sizes of 
~ 30 nm on an interlayer. A careful study of the newly proposed Pd-based mixture as a sensing 
material on a metal-semiconductor-meal type of hydrogen sensor provides significant information on 
the roles of oxygen and the interlayer. Experimental results show that hydrogen atoms trapped inside 
the mixture due to oxygen can not contribute to changes in barrier height at small voltage. Improved 
sensing properties such as hydrogen dissociation rate, diffusion rate, and storage capability were 
found when Pd nanoparticles were formed by wet etched method. High and uniform sensing 
responses (> 105), large voltage shifts (> 20 V) were obtained at the hydrogen concentration as low 
as 2.13 ppm H2/N2. In addition, hydrogen atoms diffuse through Pd nanoparticles more quickly to 
the interlayer where they form the dipoles, bringing about a much shorter response time.  
 
關鍵詞：GaN, silicon dioxide, hydrogen sensor, nanoparticles, response time 
 
前言 
Hydrogen is predicted to be a possible main energy source in the future. Hydrogen has been 
currently used in chemical industry, semiconductor fabrication, medical treatment, and 
hydrogen-fueled vehicles [1]. With regard to the fact that hydrogen is not sensed by the human 
olfactory system and its wide range of ignition in air, there is a great demand on robust 
semiconductor-based hydrogen sensors [2-8]. In fact, hydrogen is reported to be able to alter the 
effective charge at the metal-semiconductor (MS) interface or metal-insulator (MI) interface, 
resulting in changes in barrier height. Concerning semiconductors, wide-gap materials such as group 
III-nitride, instead of GaAs- and InP-based ones, are capable of operating at high temperatures and in 
harsh environments [9-18]. So a lot of GaN-related hydrogen sensors based on MS Schottky diodes 
have been demonstrated to operate at high temperatures and/or to possibly integrate with other 
electronic and optical components. 
On the other hand, several important catalytic metals, of which Pd and Pt are perhaps the two 
well-known examples, are more or less hydrogen permeable. Thus semiconductor-based hydrogen 
sensors fabricated with such catalytic metals are of particular potential. With specific catalytic 
activity of Pd and Pt, hydrogen molecules are adsorbed and dissociatd at a Pd (or Pt) surface, 
followed by rapid diffusion of hydrogen atoms to the MS (or MI) interface where the dipoles are 
formed to modulate the barrier height. Obviously, the permeability and hydrogen storage capability 
of the catalytic material may influence the reaction rates and relative responses to hydrogen. 
Moreover, sensing ability of such the kind of sensor also depends on the properties of the hydrogen 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. EDX results of Pd-mixtures showing Si and O were selectively removed by wet-etched 
method. 
 
 Sensor Fabrication and Measurement 
The sensors with newly suggested Pd-mixtures were fabricated on the substrate the same as in 
[18]. After removing the native oxide layer on the GaN layer, a 30-nm mixture of Pd and SiO2 was 
deposited on patterned interdigitated electrodes.  Then MSM-type hydrogen sensors were 
implemented by mesa isolation after wet-etching SiO2 in HF:H2O solution and lift-off process. The 
Sensor dimensions of the finger width and finger-to-finger spacing are 5 m. The effective area for 
sensing hydrogen is 810-4 cm2. Another sensor with the Pd-SiO2 mixture as-deposited was also 
fabricated for comparison. Hydrogen detection was carried out at room temperature using a 
Lab-made gas sensing chamber. Various hydrogen concentrations in wide range of 2.13 to 10100 
ppm H2/N2 were used at a flow rate of 500 sccm. Static and dynamic sensing currents reflecting 
various hydrogen-containing gases were performed by mounting the sensors on a test fixture with 
bonding wires contacting to electrodes. 
 
結果與討論 
Static Sensing Characteristics 
Current-Voltage Characteristics 
Current-voltage (I-V) characteristics of the sensors with the Pd-mixture as-deposited and 
wet-etched are shown in Fig. 3. Both sensors produced static detection properties at 49.1 to 10,100 
ppm H2/N2 after a several-hour exposure. Unlike those obtained from conventional MS-type 
hydrogen sensors, the I-V characteristics are symmetrical with bi-directional detection in wide range 
of hydrogen concentrations. Note that the sensor with the Pd-mixture being etched shows quite 
stable detection to hydrogen even at 10.09 and 2.13 ppm H2/N2. Moreover, the cuves beyond 
breakdown in Fig. 2(b) are almost in parallel to show similar trends. This implies that the MSM type 
sensor shows an nearly equal equivalent dynamic resistance at the same current level beyond 
breakdown. However, abnormal responses to hydrogen-containing gases were observed in I-V 
curves approaching breakdown in Fig. 2(a). A fictitious line by dots is employed to represent normal 
detection in practice. Obviously, a quite different sensing mechanism is existent between the sensors 
with the Pd-mixture as-deposited and wet-etched. The proposed concept used to explain such 
abnormal responses is the effect of hydrogen atoms trapped inside the mixture on the dipole layer. At 
small voltage hydrogen atoms trapped inside the mixture do not contribute to dipoles. The measured 
curve coincides with the fictitious line at such a range of voltages. When once the applied voltage is 
large enough, those hydrogen atoms inside the mixture start to be polarized. Enhanced dipoles allow 
further reduction in the barrier height and hence increase in the sensing current. We observe that the 
I-V curve measured strays from the fictitious line. The abnormal responses have been found until 
breakdown takes place. At the moment, the sensing current is mainly dominated by the series 
resistance after breakdown. In general, two possible outputs are employed to monitor the leak of 
hydrogen-containing gases. One is the senisng-current variation measured when the sensor is biased 
of SiO2 covered over the Pd.  As a result, Fig. 4(b) really shows normal sensing properties as 
mentioned. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4. Sensing current densities as a function of applied voltage for the sensors with the Pd-mixtures 
(a) as deposited and (b) wet-etched. 
 
Fig. 5 shows sensing responses (S) and effective barrier height (EBH) variations () as a 
function of applied votlage for the sensors in study. The S is defined as J/JN2 and  is calculated 
according to [12]. For both sensors, the effectively dominated Schottky barrier height is decreased as 
the hydrogen concentration is increased. In other words, the higher the hydrogen concentration is the 
larger the EBH variation is. It is because when more hydrogen molecules come to the Pd-mixture, 
more hydrogen atoms can be absorbed and polarized. We first refer to the measured results of the 
sensor with the Pd-mixture as-deposited shown on the left-hand side of Fig. 5. The  remains 
unchanged at voltage magnitude smaller than 2.5 V. Such a voltage-independent  is increased 
from ~225 to ~280 mV with increasing hydrogen concentration from 49.1 to 10100 ppm. We thus 
understand that the Pd-SiO2 mixture is an appropriate material for sensing hydrogen at a 
concentration higher than 1%. Note that the  is not voltage independent anymore at the voltage 
magnitude larger than 2.5 V. The voltage tuning factor (defined as /V) is about 60 mV/V at 
voltages ranged from 2.5 to 4.0 V. Then it starts to saturate at 5 V. The S () at 4.5 V is 4106 
(385 mV) while that at 2.0 V is 6104 (275 mV) for the sensor with the Pd-mixture as-deposited at 
10,100 ppm H2/N2. Extremely high sensing responses can also be obtained from the sensor with the 
Pd-mixture wet-etched. Be worthy to note that the S () at 4.5 V is 8106 (405 mV) while that at 
2.0 V is still as large as 4106 (385 mV) for the sensor with the Pd-mixture wet-etched at 10100 
ppm H2/N2. The hydrogen atoms can quickly diffuse through the Pd nanoparticles and locate at the 
interlayer, instead of being adsorbed inside the mixture. Thus almost all dipoles are formed close to 
the interlayer once the voltage is applied to the sensor in H2/N2. This also implies that the sensor 
with the Pd-mixture wet-etched requires only a small voltage to obtain a compatible sensing current 
(or S or ) as the sensing signal. So low power consumption is expected. We contribute these 
improved sensing properties to (1) the nano-scale Pd particles, which are responsible for highly 
efficient dissociation and (2) the thin supporting interlayer between Pd-nanoparticles and GaN, 
which exhibits good hydrogen storage capability. Moreover, the stable S over 105 ( over 275 mV) 
is available even if the sensor with Pd-mixture wet etched is subjected to a 2.13 ppm H2/N2 
ambience. 
 
 
Fig. 6. Sensing-voltage variation as a function of applied current for the sensors with the Pd-mixture 
(a) as-deposited and (b) wet-etched. 
 
Dynamic Sensing Characteristics 
Fig. 7 shows the current transient response of the sensors to the introduction and removal of 
hydrogen-containing gases in wide concentration range of 10100 to 49.1 ppm at a fixed voltage of 5 
V. The measured current density starts to increase as soon as a 10100 ppm H2/N2 gas is introduced. 
After final saturation in the current density (JH2,sat), air gas is used to completely remove the 10100 
ppm H2/N2 gas and the sensing current density returns to its baseline. Measurements have been 
repeatedly performed in ambiences cycled from air to various hydrogen-containing gases. The sensor 
with the Pd-mixture wet-etched responds well to various hydrogen-containing gases and produces 
transient currents with repeatable curves. The JH2 is smoothly increased from JN2 to JH2,sat in one step. 
However, two-step (or multi-step) rising and falling behaviors are observed in the JH2 versus time for 
the sensor with the Pd-mixture as-deposited. The similar sensing processes were found in Fig. 8 
showing voltage transient responses of the sensors to the introduction and removal of various 
hydrogen-containing gases with hydrogen concentration ranged from 49.1 to 10100 ppm. The 
magnitudes of breakdown voltages are normally and smoothly decreased with sensing time when the 
sensor with the Pd-mixture wet-etched is subjected to various hydrogen-containing gases. However, 
we find two-step responses in the breakdown voltage of the sensor with the Pd-mixture as-deposited. 
For instance, at a biasing current of 1 A and 49.1 ppm H2/N2, the first-step response is from 
baseline to 7.5 V and the second-step one is from 7.5 V to 5 V. In order to further realize such an 
abnormal sensing response, the fictitious line added in Fig. 3(a) to represent the current-voltage 
characteristics of the sensor at 49.1 ppm H2/N2 without the dipoles formed inside the mixture is used 
again. At a constant current of 1 A, the sensor in N2 produces a sensing voltage of VN2=19.5 V. At 
gas exposure, the sensing voltage starts decreasing to 7.5 V shown by arrows. We find the first-step 
response to 49.1 ppm H2/N2 indicating the dipoles formed at the mixture-GaN interface. On 
condition that hydrogen atoms trapped inside the mixture are polarized, the second-step response 
occurs and hence the breakdown voltage saturates at 5 V. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 7. Current transient responses to the introduction and removal of various hydrogen-containing 
for the sensors with the Pd-mixture (a) as-deposited and (b) wet-etched. 
 
 
 
 
the Pd-mixture as-deposited. For example, the current response time is shorter than 20 min (70 s) at 
49.1 (10100) ppm H2/N2. This is expected and reasonable since hydrogen atoms are no longer 
blocked and/or disturbed when they diffuse through the Pd nanoparticles. Similar to the current 
response time defined in current transient responses, the voltage response time in voltage transient 
responses is also demonstrated in Fig. 9(b) [18]. We find that the voltage response time also depends 
on the hydrogen concentration. For the sensor with the Pd-mixture as-deposited (wet-etched) at 49.1 
ppm H2/N2, the voltage response time is 40 (6) min. When the hydrogen concentration is increased to 
10100 ppm, the value is reduced to 3 (0.5) min. Comparison between current and voltage response 
times in Fig. 9 gives a new finding that the sensing voltage as the detecting signal shows a quicker 
response.  
 
結論 
GaN-based MSM-type Hydrogen sensors with a stabilized Pd-base mixture have been 
investigated in this work. A rough surface with many pores was observed for the Pd-mixture as 
deposited by thermal evaporator using a depositing source of Pd metal and SiO2 dielectric. Pd 
nanoparticles upon an interlayer were formed by wet selectively etching method. Comparisons 
between the sensors with the Pd-mixture as deposited and wet-etched were addressed. In addition to 
quite different sensing mechanism, the sensor with Pd-mixture wet-etched has a higher dissociation 
rate and a larger diffusion rate for hydrogen. The proposed concept used to explain the measured 
results includes that hydrogen atoms are possibly absorbed and polarized inside the mixture due to 
oxygen. A very high sensing response of 8108% is obtained at 10100 ppm H2/N2. Of course, further 
experiments are required to verify the proposed concept and are in understudy. 
References  
[1] N. Yamazoe, “Toward innovations of gas sensor technology,” Sens. Actuators B, vol.108, pp. 
2-14, 2005. 
[2] Z. Zhao, A. A. Carpenter, D. welch, and H. Xia, “All-optical hydrogen sensor based on a high 
alloy content palladium thin film,” Sens. Actuators B, vol. 113, pp.532-538, 2006. 
[3] C. W. Hung, K. W. Lin, H. C. Chang, Y. Y. Tsai, P. H. Lai, S. I. Fu, T. P. Chen, H. I. Chen, and W. 
C. Liu, “Three-terminal-controlled field-effect resistive hydrogen sensor,” Sens Actuators B, vol. 
124, pp. 549-556, 2007. 
[4] C. Christofides, A. Mandelis, “Solid-state sensors for trace hydrogen gas detection,” J. Appl. 
Phys., vol. 68, pp.1-30, 1990. 
[5] C. W. Hung, H. L. Lin, H. I. Chen, Y. Y. Tsai, P. H. Lai, S. I. Fu, and W. C. Liu, „A novel 
Pt/In0.52Al0.48As Schottky diode-type hydrogen sensor,“ IEEE Electron Device Lett., vol. 27, 
pp.951-954, 2006. 
[6] A. Salehi, A. Nikfarjam, and D. J. Kalantari, “Pd/porous-GaAs Schottky contact for hydrogen 
sensing application,” Sens, Actuators B, vol. 113, pp. 419-427, 2006. 
[7] Y. I. Chou, C. M. Chen, and W. C. Liu, “A new Pd-InP Schottky hydrogen sensor fabricated by 
electrophoretic deposition with Pd nanoparticles,” IEEE Electron Device Lett., vol. 26, pp. 62-65, 
2005. 
[8] C. W. Hung, H. C. Chang, Y. Y. Tsai, P. H. Lai, S. I. Fu, T. P. Chen, H. I. Chen, and W. C. Liu, 
“Study of a new field-effect resistive hydrogen sensor based on a Pd/oxide/AlGaAs transistor,” 
IEEE Trans. Electron Devices, vol. 52, pp. 1224-1231, 2007. 
[9] J. R. Huang, W. C. Hsu, H. I. Chen, and W. C. Liu, “Comparative study of hydrogen sensing 
characteristics of a Pd/GaN Schottky diode in air and N2 atmospheres,” Sen. Actuator B, vol. 
123, pp. 1040-1048, 2007. 
[10] J. Song and W. Lu, “Thermodynamic and kinetic analysis of hydrogen sensing in 
Pt/AlGaN/GaN Schottky diodes at high temperatures,” IEEE Sens. J., vol. 8, pp. 903-909, 2008. 
[11] J. Schalwig, g. Muller, U. Karrer, M. Eickhoff, O. Ambacher, M. Stutzmann, L. Gorgens, and G. 
Dollinger, “Hydrogen response mechanism of Pt-GaN Schottky diodes,” Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 
80, pp.1222-1224, Feb. 2002. 
[12] S. Y. Chiu, H. W. Huang, T. H. Huang, K. C. Liang, K. P. Liu, J. H. Tsai, and W. S. Lour, 
“High-sensitivity metal-semiconductor-metal hydrogen sensors with a mixture of Pd and SiO2 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 99-2221-E-017-018 
計畫名稱 具有奈米級多孔性感測金屬合層之半導體氫氣感測器研究(I) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
蔡榮輝 國立高雄師範大學電子工程學系 教授 
會議時間地點 一百年七月四日至七日  中國大連市 
會議名稱 The 3
rd International Conference on Microelectronics and Plasma Technology 
(ICMAP-2011) 
發表論文題目 An InP/InGaAs Metamorphic -Doped Heterojunction Bipolar Transistor with High Current Gain and Low Offset Voltage 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
1. 此次會議本人於一百年七月四日由高雄搭機，經香港至大連國際機場，再搭車至會議地
點大連市 Furama Hotel 報到。 
2. 一百年七月四日至七月七日至會議地點出席本次會議並於七月五日下午發表研究論文。 
3. 一百年七月六日上午至中午於大連市星海公園、老虎灘廣場、濱海路等參觀。 
4. 一百年七月七日午後由大連國際機場經香港返回高雄。 
 
二、 與會心得 
1. 本次國際會議由 The Korean Vacuum Society 主辦。兩年舉辦一次，本次會議地點於大連
市 Furama Hotel 舉行，位於大連市中心東北隅，此為市區的一五星級賓館，臨近大連港，
具自然與人文景觀。 
2. 本次會議包含 Materials and processes for semiconductor devices 等共有五個與微電子技術
相關之研究主題。其會議論文品質及原創性極高，約有三百餘論文發表。本人發表一篇
論文，並與參與學者交換研究心得。 
3. 會議中與會學者對本人發表之論文深感興趣，特別是韓國與中國學者，且提供多項寶貴
意見。因本論文藉由藉由磷化銦鎵(InxGa1-xP)變晶性漸變緩衝層，在低成本砷化鎵基板上
製作新型的高性能變晶性磷化銦/砷化銦鎵雙極性電晶體。該雙極性元件係於建構於
InxGa1-xP 變晶性緩衝層之上，且該基射極接面中未摻雜間隙層中加入一高濃度摻雜之單
原子層，以期降低基射極接面之位障尖峰及集-射極補償電壓，以減少電路應用之功率消
耗。而電洞基從基極至射極之有效能障亦增加，可維持相當的電流增益及熱穩定性。由
The 3rd International Conference on Microelectronics 
and Plasma Technology 
July 4-7, 2011, Dalian, China.，www.icmap2011.org 
 
May 20, 2011 
Dr. Jung-Hui Tsa 
Department of Electronic Engineering 
National Kaohsiung Normal University 
116 Ho-ping 1st Road, Kaohsiung 802, TAIWAN 
 
Dear Dr. Jung-Hui Tsai, 
 
On behalf of the organizing committee for the 3rd International Conference on Microelectronics and 
Plasma Technology (ICMAP2011), it is my pleasure to invite you to give a presentation at the forthcoming 
conference, to be held during the period of July 4-7, 2011 in Dalian, China. You are scheduled to give the 
following poster presentation “An InP/InGaAs Metamorphic-Doped Heterojunction Bipolar 
Transistor with High Current Gain and Low Offset Voltage”. 
 
ICMAP2011 will provide an open forum to report on recent technical advances of plasma-related 
disciplines with strong industrial application background, discuss key issues and identify future 
development. The conference will cover a variety of processing technologies related to semiconductor, 
display, and energy conversion devices, newly developed materials, bio-medical applications, and plasma 
generation, plasma diagnostics and simulation, etc.  
 
With your support, I am confident that we can make the conference a very successful and enjoyable event. 
I look forward to seeing you in Dalian.  
 
If there is any question about the final program, please visit the conference website www.icmap2011.org 
  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
You-Nian Wang 
Chairman of ICMAP2011 
Professor of Physics  
School of Physics and Optoelectronic Technology 
Dalian University of Technology, Dalian 116024, CHINA 
Tel: 86-411-84707307; Fax: 86-411-84709304 
E-mail: ynwang@dlut.edu.cn    
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/09/22
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 具有奈米級多孔性感測金屬合層之半導體氫氣感測器研究(I)
計畫主持人: 蔡榮輝
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-017-018- 學門領域: 固態電子
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
1.榮獲國立高雄師範大學 99 學年度『研究優良獎』. 
2.榮獲國科會 99,100 學年度特殊優秀人才獎勵. 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
