method is FCM (the rate of success is 23/35=65.7%). 
The reason for such a difference for those two studies is 
about normalization. There is a large difference of scales 
in different cancers. Hence, an adaptive normalization 
may yield better effects in clustering. The samples of this 
study are processed under a carefully selected 
normalization. Thus, the result is almost perfect. 
In this study, we develop a scheme of finding 
related regulator genes and information from Internet. In 
the literature, Nuclear receptor subfamily genes and 
JUND act important roles in ovarian cancer. They are 
initial genes separately to get their pathways. It can get 
the information-‘induced by MEF2’ and ‘inhibited by 
AKT1’ from pathway of NR4A1 to analyze the gene 
expression. When MEF2C represents high expression, 
AKT1 is inhibited and NR4A1’s expression is induced 
from OVT to OVTT. In the same way, it can get the 
information-‘inhibited by MEN1’ from the pathway of 
JUND. When MEN1 represents high expression, JUND 
is inhibited form OVT to OVCAI. According to the past 
research of cancer that the mutation of BRCA1 and 
BRCA2 are the cause of hereditary ovarian cancer, and 
many cancer patients have the defect of p53. BRCA1 and 
BRCA2 are also considered as the initial genes to get 
pathways. It can be found that those related genes are 
inhibited (their expression are close to 0). It proves that 
those related genes are inhibited to cause ovarian cancer. 
The samples are too few (only 15 samples) to have 
correct analysis. We hope to get more samples to achieve 
perfect results. Also, it cannot find the related genes of 
every stage of cancer. In the recent research, some 
phenotypes are co-regulated by more genes (not only 
one). Thus, we want to include more new databases into 
our Internet database to get more complete information. 
II. GENE REGULATORY NETWORKS (PATHWAY) 
Gene regulatory networks (GRNs) are the on-off 
switches and rheostats of a cell operating at the gene 
level. They dynamically orchestrate the level of 
expression for each gene in the genome by controlling 
whether and how vigorously that gene will be transcribed 
into RNA. Each RNA transcript then functions as the 
template for synthesis of a specific protein by the process 
of translation. A simple GRN consists of one or more 
input signaling pathways, regulatory proteins that 
integrate the input signals, several target genes (in 
bacteria a target operon), and the RNA and proteins 
produced from those target genes. In addition, such 
networks often include dynamic feedback loops that 
provide for further regulation of network architecture 
and output. As indicated in Fig. 1, input signaling 
pathways transduce intracellular and/or extra-cellular 
signals to a group of regulatory proteins called 
transcription factors. Transcription factors activated by 
the signals then interact, either directly or indirectly, with 
DNA sequences belonging to the specific genes they 
regulate. The factors also interact with each other to form 
multi-protein complexes bound to the DNA.  
GRNs act as analog biochemical computers to 
specify the identity and level of expression of groups of 
target genes. Central to this computation are DNA 
recognition sequences with which transcription factors 
are associated. Every gene has its own novel "cis-acting" 
sequence elements. They vary greatly in complexity 
from one gene to another and from generally simpler 
structures in bacteria to more complex structures in 
multi-cellular organisms. When active transcription 
factors are associated with the cis-elements of their 
cognate target genes, they can function to specifically 
repress (down-regulate) or induce (up-regulate) 
synthesis of the corresponding RNA. The immediate 
molecular output of a gene regulatory network is the 
constellation of RNAs and proteins encoded by network 
target genes. The resulting cellular readouts are changes 
in the structure, metabolic capacity, or behavior of the 
cell mediated by new expression of up-regulated proteins 
and elimination of down-regulated proteins. 
 
Fig 1: Gross anatomy of a minimal gene regulatory 
network (GRN) embedded in a regulatory network 
Co-regulated target genes are often formed for 
proteins that act together to build a specific cell structure 
or to yield a concerted change in cell functions. For 
example, genes encoding components of the 
multi-protein proteasome machine are co-regulated at the 
RNA level. This was shown by microarray gene chip 
analyses in yeast cells, and each gene was found to 
possess a similar cis-regulatory DNA sequence that 
mediates binding of a particular transcription factor. 
Similarly, a bacterium may respond to a shortage of its 
preferred energy source by activating expression of 
genes whose protein products function in a biochemical 
pathway that allows it to use a different, more abundant 
source of energy.  
Some genes are regulated by a single input 
mechanism, but, especially in higher organisms, a gene 
often responds to information from multiple signals via 
the activity of diverse transcription factors. For example, 
in human fibroblast cells responding to a “growth factor” 
impinging on cell surface signal receptors, a platoon of 
“immediate early” gene is up-regulated as the first step in 
the complex process of cell proliferation. Some of the 
same genes, though not all of them, can be activated in 
brain cells by the distinct stimulus of seizure. This 
network also illustrates that GRNs can be multi-tiered. 
The first signal (growth factor) initiates expression of 
"immediate early" target genes, which include 
transcription factors such as c-Fos and c-Jun. These 
transcription factors then cause a second group of target 
genes, called "early genes," to be expressed. Among 
these early genes are other transcription factors such as 
c-Myc. They regulate expression of yet another group of 
genes of a "delayed early" group. In this way a 
multi-tiered GRN cascade can be constructed, replete 
with feedbacks and crosstalk to other networks. 
transformation, and apoptosis. The role of nuclear 
receptor subfamily genes is less clear. These genes 
encode a member of the steroid-thyroid 
hormone-retinoid receptor super-family. The encoded 
protein may act as a transcription factor. 
 
Fig 5: Find the related genes have regulation 
 
BRCA1 and/or BRCA2 function as transcriptional 
regulators of specific target genes and the identification 
of which might, in turn, shed light on the mechanism of 
BRCA tumor suppression. Interactions have been found 
between BRCA proteins and sequence-specific 
transcription factors such as c-myc (BRCA1) and p53 
(BRCA1 and BRCA2), as well as with certain 
transcription regulation proteins that do not recognize a 
specific, canonical DNA sequence [3]. The search for 
BRCA1 target genes also points to candidates in the p53 
pathway: p21 and GADD45 [3]. This connection 
suggests a different kind of link between BRCA1 
function and genome integrity control in which its 
function is tied to the expression of genes that do the 
work of checkpoint control and/or DNA repair. Such 
information should help researchers in working out how 
BRCA1 prevents cells become cancerous. It is suspected 
that the process is involved in DNA repair, controlling 
cell division and regulating gene activity. 
At first, you select a gene to be the initial gene, and 
then type this gene name in the following interface ((1) 
marked in Fig 5). When you click the button ‘Find 4 
layers path (all)’ marked as (2), the pathway (marked as 
(3) in the figure) and all related genes marked as (4). 
Every gene has the expression of 15 samples in ovarian 
database. You can click any gene of the list box marked 
as (4) to show the trend graph. This interface also 
provides other functions, such as when you click the 
button ‘Find Single Path’ marked as (5), the pathway 
information marked as (6) and related genes marked as (7) 
is showed in the figure. 
IV. PATHWAY EVOLUTION 
Pathway is made up of related genes. Between two 
deferent layers, upper genes and lower genes have the 
regulative relationship on each other. A gene is chosen as 
the start from ovarian cancer database and the regulative 
information is obtained from the network. In Fig 6, the 
initial gene is “NR4A1.” The related genes that have the 
regulative relationship with “NR4A1” are produced. 
When the next related gene is up regulation, the line 
color is red as shown in Fig 6 and for down regulation, 
the line color is green as shown in Fig 7. If the related 
gene name is red, it represents the gene exists in current 
ovarian cancer database. If related gene name is blue, it 
does not exist in current ovarian cancer database.  
 
Fig 6: The related genes of up regulation from NR4A1 
 
 
Fig 7: The related genes of down regulation from 
NR4A1 
 
It can get regulation information of each related 
gene. The over-expressed genes might be alternative 
candidates for developing early diagnostic markers. JUN 
and nuclear receptor subfamily genes are repeatedly 
identified in the group of down-regulated genes 
indicating their important regulatory roles in the 
oncogenesis of ovary. In Fig 8, the initial gene is NR4A1. 
We pick the information-‘induced by MEF2’ and 
‘inhibited by AKT1’ from Fig 8 and take the data (Table 
1) for further investigation. In Table 1, when MEF2C 
represents high expression (1.88), NR4A1 is induced 
from ovt1 (-2.63) to ovtt1 (-0.79) and AKT1 represents 
low expression (-1.65). That it to say MEF2C and AKT1 
are regulation genes of transition form OVT to OVTT. 
 
Table 4.22: The related gene expression of NR4A1 
 ovt1 ovt3 ovtt1 CAI 
ovca1 
CAIII 
ovca3
CAIII
NR4A1 -2.63 -2.88 -0.79 -3.06 -2.77
PML 0.48 -0.04 -0.35 0.05 -0.11
AKT1 -1.65* 0.29 0.50 0.04 0.09 
MEF2C 1.88* -0.29 1.45 0.07 0.90 
 
(1) 
(2) 
(4) 
(3) 
(5) (6) 
(7) 
