 2
between the inorganic SiO2 gate insulator and 
organic pentacene active layers [7–10]. The 
self-assembled monolayer (SAM), such as 
hexamethyldislane (HDMS) or 
octadecyltrichlorosilan (OTS), was used to greatly 
reduce the surface potential energy and thus 
improve the interface properties. The SAM 
process can improve the pentacene growth 
property, but it is a wet process and the inorganic 
SiO2 OTFT gate insulator requires immersion in 
SAM solution for a long time, such as 24 h. 
Sometimes, the long immersion time may remove 
the contact metals and the solvent used in SAM 
process may attack the plastic substrate employed 
for the flexible display.  
It has also been reported that interface 
trap-states, such as dangling bonds or weaker 
bonds, between the SiO2 gate insulator and 
pentacene active layers are also key issues that 
affect OTFT performance [11–13]. Some schemes 
have been used to reduce the interface trap-states 
to improve pentacene-based OTFT performance 
[14,15]. In this study, we propose using an 
NH3-plasma treatment to improve the interface 
property between the SiO2 and pentacene and 
simultaneously reduce the interface trap-states, 
resulting in performance improvement. We 
believe that the proposed NH3-plasma treatment is 
a good candidate to effectively improve OTFT 
performance. 
 
Fig. 1. Schematic diagram of pentacene-based OTFTs 
with bottom-contact configuration. 
III. EXPERIMENT 
The bottom-contact (BC) configuration of 
pentacene-based OTFTs were fabricated onto a 
highly doped n-type Si wafer (resistivity < 0.020 
ohm cm, 500 lm-thick) acting as the gate 
electrodes. The pentacene-based OTFT 
configuration is shown in Fig. 1. Thermally grown 
100 nm-thick SiO2 was used as the gate insulator 
and the Cr/Pt (2 nm/70 nm) were evaporated using 
an Electron-Beam evaporation system as 
source/drain (S/D) electrodes. The lift-off method 
was used to pattern the electrodes onto the SiO2. 
High density plasma chemical vapor deposition 
(HDP-CVD) NH3-plasma was conducted before 
pentacene deposition to treat the SiO2/pentacene 
interface. The inductively coupled plasma (ICP) 
power of HDP-CVD was 100 W. The chamber 
pressure was 30 mTorr and the gas flow rate 100 
sccm. The gas composition of the NH3-plasma 
was pure NH3 gas. The plasma exposure time was 
30 min. Additionally to avoid large surface 
roughness in the gate insulator which degrades 
device performance, the plasma treatment time 
and plasma power should be considered at the 
same time as a result of the slighter etching effect. 
After the NH3-plasma treatment, the pentacene 
purchased from Sigma Aldrich (without any 
purification) was deposited onto the SiO2 as the 
active layer material. The substrate temperature 
was kept at 70 ℃. Pentacene film at a thickness of 
100 nm was deposited at a rate of 0.1–0.3 Å/s. The 
device’s channel width (W) and channel length (L) 
were around 500 and 4 μm, respectively. The 
devices were stored and measured at room 
temperature in atmosphere. The surface 
morphology and grain size of the pentacene film, 
as the active layer, were observed using atomic 
force microscopy (AFM). The contact angle 
 4
characteristics [7].   
Table 1 
Comparison of the contact angles and surface potential energies of gate insulator (SiO2) with and without NH3-plasma 
treatment, respectively. 
 
Fig. 3. The AFM images of SiO2 surface (a) with and (b) 
without NH3-plasma treatment. 
These hydrophilic bonds may result in inferior 
crystallinity in the grown pentacene film. Fig. 4 
shows the contact angle measurement results, 
which employed de-ionized water as the analytic 
solution to analyze the SiO2 surface properties 
with and without NH3-plasma treatment. It 
indicated that after NH3-plasma treatment, the 
contact angle increased from 28.71°to 47.14°. It 
has been reported that hydrogen radicals 
dissociated from NH3-plasma will react with OH  
 
Fig. 4. The contact angles of SiO2 surface (a) with and (b) 
without NH3-plasma treatment. 
and H bonds to form H2O and H2 which can 
diffuse outward from the SiO2 network [17].Thus, 
it is presumed that the surface property of the SiO2 
was changed from hydrophilic to hydrophobic 
characteristics, that as a result of the dissociated 
hydrogen radicals from NH3-plasma reacting with 
these hydrophilic bonds. We believe that the 
hydrogen radicals dissociated from NH3-plasma 
resulted in the SiO2 hydrophobic surface to 
improve the crystallinity of the grown pentacene 
thin-film. The pentacene film with improved 
crystallinity will have large and uniform grains, as 
shown in Fig. 2a. The large and uniform grains 
can decrease the carrier scattering during carrier 
transport to result in good device performance. 
The small and non-uniform grains tend to have 
voids, resulting in the carrier transport through 
this material significantly degraded by the voids 
[19]. Fig. 5a and b shows the typical output curves 
(IDS–VDS) for the pentacene-based OTFTs with 
and without NH3-plasma treatment, respectively. 
It was found that the saturation drain current (IDS) 
of pentacene-based OTFTs with NH3-plasma 
treatment is larger than that without NH3-plasma 
 6
Table 2 
Device characteristics comparison for pentacene-based TFTs with and without NH3-plasma treatment, respectively.
difficult to repel the carriers in the traps with the 
gate voltage. When devices without treatment 
were operated in the off state, the drain current 
could not be effectively turned off [15]. The 
interface trap values are also listed in Table 2. We 
estimated and extracted the interface trap density 
in the devices using the methods of Levinson et al. 
[21] and Cristoloveanu et al. [22]. It was found 
that there is a 36% decrease in the interface traps 
for NH3-plasma treatment devices. The gate 
insulator (SiO2) leakage current with and without 
plasma treatment is shown in Fig. 7.  
 
Fig. 7. The gate leakage current (IGS–VGS) of the 
pentacene-based OTFTs with and without NH3-plasma 
treatment, respectively 
It indicates that the NH3-plasma treatment can 
decrease the gate insulator (SiO2) leakage current. 
Thus, we presumed that the nitrogen radicals 
dissociated from the NH3-plasma can help 
terminate the dangling bonds between the SiO2 
and pentacene to form strong Si–N bonds, 
resulting in the reduction in defect states and 
performance improvement for pentacene-based 
OTFTs [23,24]. We believe that the improvement 
in sub-threshold swing of the treated devices 
resulted from the decreased defect states and 
interface trap-state density between the SiO2 and 
pentacene interface. Additionally, it has been 
reported [20,25] that hydrogen radicals dissociated 
from NH3 treatment could increase the electron 
trapping to result in the produced built-in negative 
gate voltage. Thus, the threshold voltage of 
OTFTs with NH3-plasma treatment can be 
decreased and the OTFTs can be turned on early. 
In summary, the hydrogen radicals dissociated 
from NH3-plasma can improve the crystallinity, 
resulting in the formation of a hydrophobic SiO2 
surface. This produces improved mobility and 
on-current characteristics in pentacene-based 
OTFTs. The experimental results exhibit that the 
improvement percentage of mobility and 
on-current were 242.8% and 148.5%, respectively. 
In addition, the nitrogen radicals dissociated from 
NH3-plasma can reduce the dangling bonds and 
decrease the interface traps-state density between 
the SiO2 and pentacene, producing performance 
improvement in pentacene-based OTFTs, 
especially in the off-current state. The 
experimental results exhibit that the improvement 
percentage of off-current state was 70%. 
 
V. CONCLUSION 
NH3-plasma treatment has been demonstrated to 
enhance the interface property between 
SiO2/pentacene and improve the electrical 
characteristics of pentacene-based OTFTs. The 
 8
VII. 計畫成果自評 
本計畫利用NH3電漿處理技術改善SiO2/pentacene之介面品質，且降低了SiO2閘極絕緣層的表面
缺陷密度，且同時改善了有機主動層材料–pentacene結晶特性，以提高有機薄膜電晶體(OTFTs)元
件效能，與原計畫目的相符、並達成預期與目標，目前本計劃研究成果已投稿至國際期刊Solid-State 
Electronics並已被刊登(Vol.53, pp. 246-250, 2009.)。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
