2通用型電腦工作站的設計與人因評估(I)
摘要
對於一般人而言，坐在電腦桌前使用電腦是再平常不過的事。但是對於只能躺臥在床上或坐輪椅的
人而言，使用電腦卻不是一件方便的事。目前市面上有一些躺姿電腦工作站產品，可以輔助使用者以
平躺或半躺的姿勢來使用電腦，但是仍然有一些限制，例如：造價昂貴、無法適用於手部功能受損
者、滑鼠或鍵盤的拖盤不易調整到個人最佳的位置等。本計畫的主要目的是研發一種結構簡單、造價
便宜的「通用型電腦工作站」，提供更多可調式設計與輔助裝置，可以輕易調整工作站達到適合坐
姿、半躺或平躺的姿勢使用電腦，並且滿足一般人與大多數肢體障礙朋友的需求。
計畫第一年先以 AutoCAD 和 JACK 軟體去繪製躺姿電腦工作站設計圖，電腦模擬修改之後再製作
原型，後續實驗徵求健康男性 11 位，以兩種姿勢(坐姿和躺姿)，以及三種手肘角度(90°、120°、150°)
作測試。每位受測者執行相同的滑鼠作業和閱讀作業。作業過程中量測受測者的作業績效、主觀疲
勞、肌肉活動電位和身體壓力分佈資料，藉此了解躺姿電腦工作站是否優於坐姿電腦工作站。
關鍵字: 通用設計、肌電訊號、躺姿工作站、體表溫度
Abstract
It is quite easy to use a computer with sitting posture for normal people. But for the person who is only able
to lye on the bed or sit in the wheelchair, it is not convenient to use a computer. Some supine computer
workstation products are available to assist specific users in using a computer with supine or reclined postures.
However, these products still have some limitations, such as high building cost, being unsuitable for the person
with deficit hand-arm function, and being difficult to adjust mouse or keyboard tray for personal optimal position.
The purpose of thisproject is try to develop an easy and cheap ‘universal computer workstation’. It could provide 
more adjustable design and assistant devices that makes it easy to use a computer with sitting, reclined or supine
postures. This workstation would satisfy the requirements of both normal people and most handicapped persons.
The AutoCAD and JACK softwares were used to draw the design diagram of the supine computer
workstation at the first year project. After computer simulation and modification, a prototype was produced. The
follow-up experiment recruited eleven healthy men to test. Two postures (sitting and lying) and three elbow
angles (90°, 120°, and 150°)were tested conditions. Each subject operated the same mouse tasks and reading task.
The subject’s performances, subjective fatigue, electromyography, and body pressure distribution data were
measured during the tests. By these tests, we can understand whether the supine computer workstation is superior
to the sitting computer workstation.
Keywords: Universal design, EMG, Supine workstation, skin temperature
4者在姿勢上能處於文獻所提到的自然狀態下，即
使操作時間較久，對肌肉骨骼也不會帶來太大的
負擔。
2.2 電腦工作站的設計
現代工作站設計上，運用人因建議方法推行
唯一的阻礙是人員在尺寸和能力上變化很大，所
以設計者要設計出符合各種不同人體、安全和工
作需要的優質產品，對於設計者來說，是一項挑
戰。
Das and Sengu- pta 研究將具系統人因方法導
入企業工作站設計中，實驗過程基本的尺寸設計
重點主要著重在下列四項：
1. 工作高度(Work height)。
2. 一般和最大可及範圍(Normal and maximum
reaches)。
3. 側面空間(Lateral clearance)。
4. 視覺角度與眼睛高度(Angle of vision and eye
height)。
接著在工作站設計中，加入讓椅子高度、工
作桌子或板凳具有可調整性的功能，讓使用者可
以做協調性的改善；在工作站表面高度方面，依
照工作功能的不同與操作者手肘高度維持明確適
當的位置距離(Das, et al, 1996)。
Park 等人曾研究以人因設計評估一個具有鍵
盤滑鼠支撐的 VDT 工作站，實驗中參考韓國安全
勞工協會的人體計測資料庫，使用 3D-SAFEWO-
RK 軟體模擬人體和環境來設計一個新的工作站，
然後做出實體模型，接著再以生物力學和主觀法
來評估工作站 (Park, et al, 2000)。
國內學者研究關於新式折疊躺椅機構研發，
主要目的是以創新設計理論循序漸進地發展一款
高舒適且收摺方便的摺疊躺椅，設計過程藉由
Pro/ ENGINEER 電腦輔助設計軟體，進行躺椅機
構之尺寸合成，建立其 3D Model ，並應用
Pro/Assembly 模組中 Mechanism 指令之模擬功
能，對所設計之摺疊躺椅進行動態模擬，最後則
進行實體模型之製作，使新設計之摺疊躺椅得到
驗證(賴治維, 2004)。
台灣行政院勞工委員會勞工安全衛生研究所
也設計一套 VDT 安全衛生指引(蘇啟宗, 1996)，提
供電腦使用者或設計者遵循的指標。以下列出電
腦桌與作業面相關之設計規範：
1. 不同的工作所需使用的作業面也不同，因此選
擇工作桌前須先考慮工作的特性，而作業面配
置則要考慮伸手可及範圍及作業性質。
2. 勞工安全研究所建議坐姿伸手可及範圍應以矮
小女性可及尺寸為準，而重要的控制器與顯示
器必須放在正常握拳所建構的弧線區域內，此
區域為使用者最佳的視覺協調能力。
3. 行政院勞工委員會安全衛生研究所則建議觀視
距離 40 至 60 公分為佳，螢幕應為視線下 10
度~20 度間，以不超過 30 度為準。
因此由以上文獻敘述可知工作站設計步驟大
部分都是先收集相關標準資料，再使用繪圖軟體
設計出工作站尺寸圖，接著做出實體模型後，再
以生物力學、主觀法或員工親自受測加以評估；
故本研究臥姿工作站一開始先參考台灣地區人體
部位尺寸資料，使用 AutoCAD 和 JACK 軟體設計
尺寸和模擬參數，再做出簡要模型，經評估修正
後，再做出實體模型讓人員操作使用。
3. 研究方法
3.1 躺姿電腦工作站設計與開發
本研究中躺姿電腦工作站的設計開發主要有
三個階段：
1. 使用AutoCAD軟體設計工作站尺寸大小。
2. 運用JACK軟體模擬人機操作情況。
3. 開發工作站實體模型。
(1) 使用AutoCAD軟體設計工作站尺寸大小
本研究躺姿電腦工作站的設計，主要是利用
AutoCAD 軟體繪製設計圖，為了使工作站大小能
夠符合台灣地區人體尺寸，我們參考台灣地區人
體計測資料庫手冊(1)中 18 歲至 64 歲男性和女性
的身高、腹厚分佈來設計躺姿工作站，因此桌面
高度設定成 30cm(大於腹厚 95th%ile)，工作站螢
幕面設計由於身高高度會影響到使用者視線跟螢
幕面的角度，理想的視線跟螢幕面角度應該是垂
直 90°，所以工作站螢幕面設計成具有可調整功
能，設定好尺寸大小後以 AutoCAD 繪製成三視圖
和 3D 視圖，如圖 2~5。
圖 2 工作站 AutoCAD 上視圖
圖 3 工作站 AutoCAD 前視圖
63.2 實驗對象
本研究實驗為電腦滑鼠和閱讀作業，公開徵
求 11 位自願者為受測對象，受測者是 20~30 歲健
康男性青年人，皆無肌肉骨骼之病例。受測前與
受測者說明實驗流程及目的，並了解各項實驗器
材，進而要求受測者熟悉電腦滑鼠作業，並利用
問卷了解受測者身體健康狀況，調查是否患有肌
肉骨骼之病痛，以確定實驗數據之正確性。
3.2 實驗設備
本實驗設備採用坐姿電腦工作站和躺姿電腦
工作站，身體疲勞量測則是採用Biopac System
MP150、接收器EMG-100B和BPMS(Body Pressure
Measurement System)，另外還使用碼表、量角
器、數位相機輔助實驗進行。
3.3 實驗設計
工作站設置完成之後，受試者依指示，執行
滑鼠和閱讀作業，本研究實驗均採全因子實驗設
計(Full factorial design)，所有實驗自變項均為受試
者內變項(within-subject variable)，實驗自變項為：
工作站種類(坐姿電腦工作站；躺姿電腦工作站)和
手肘角度(90°；120°；150°)，手肘角度如圖13所
示。
圖 13 手肘角度(90°；120°；150°)
依變項為：肌肉活動變化EMG、身體壓力分
佈、滑鼠操作績效、閱讀內容績效和主觀自覺偏
好和不適程度問卷
肌肉活動變化量測部位為下列四項：
右斜方肌(right trapezius muscle)。
右三角肌(right deltoid muscle)。
右手肱二頭肌(right biceps brachii muscle)。
右手尺側伸腕肌 (right extensor carpi ulnaris
muscle)。
身體壓力分布主要收集背部(seat back)與臀部
(seat pan)兩部位，並將兩部位分成12區域作分
析，如圖14。
圖 14 12 區域部位圖
滑鼠操作績效是讓受測者執行四項電腦滑鼠
測驗作業，收集有關時間、按擊和失誤次數數
據，評估不同實驗條件下電腦作業績效，如圖 15
和圖 16。
圖 15 滑鼠操作作業(連續按鍵和移動點選)
圖 16 滑鼠操作作業(拖曳施放和電流急急棒)
閱讀內容績效是讓受測者閱讀口述隨機排列
英文字母三分鐘五百字內容，口述中要操作滑鼠
指標跟著字母移動，實驗記錄者手持碼表和一份
樣稿計時檢測完成和錯誤字數，如圖 17。
圖 17 閱讀內容績效
主觀自覺偏好和不適程度問卷是採用Borg
Scale 11點量表(Baron et al.,1996)，把人體區分十
六個部位，評估受測者實驗後主觀不適症狀，另
外實驗後，實驗人員以口頭詢問對於工作站種類
和手臂角度的偏好選擇和程度。
3.4 實驗程序
於實驗開始前，實驗人員讓受試者抽籤編排
作業次序和說明實驗流程、目的及相關注意事
項，接著開始設置EMG肌肉量測儀器和BPMS身
體壓力設備，受試者接受EMG最大自主收縮力量
(MVC)測試與校正；實驗中完整實驗時間約為138
分鐘，其中前置作業與儀器校正總共約為60分
鐘，而在六種作業狀況下，每種作業狀況之固定
設定調整為2分鐘，讓受測者使用坐姿工作站前，
配合個人身高調整適當椅子高度，螢幕視距調整
在60±5cm，使用躺姿工作站前，則是調整螢幕面
傾斜角，讓受測者視線跟螢幕平面大約呈垂直，
螢幕視距一樣調整在60±5cm，作業時間為8分鐘，
8(3) 身體壓力分布
 總壓力分布：
坐姿壓力分佈
79%
21%
臀部
背部
躺姿壓力分佈
53%
47%
臀部
背部
圖 23 坐姿和躺姿總壓力分布(臀部與背部)
坐 姿 全 身 總 壓 力 數 值 (68717.76g) 比 躺 姿
(45467.27g)大，在臀部部位坐姿壓力分布百分比
(79.16%)比躺姿 (53.00%)大，在背部部位，坐姿
(20.83%)比躺姿(46.99%)還小，姿勢上有顯著的差
異；手肘角度間的壓力分配數值都差異不大，且
其差異並不顯著。
 臀部6區域壓力分布：
坐姿在臀部壓力分佈 7%
7%
23%
22%
20%
21%
S1
S2
S3
S4
S5
S6
躺姿在臀部壓力分佈
42%
36%
9%
11% 2%
0%
S1
S2
S3
S4
S5
S6
圖24 坐姿和躺姿臀部6區域壓力分布
坐姿的壓力分布在S1、S2、S5和S6比躺姿還
大，而S3和S4的壓力坐姿比躺姿還小，身體姿勢
對臀部的六個區域的壓力有顯著的差異；手肘角
度間的壓力分配數值都差異不大，且其差異並不
顯著。
 背部6區域壓力分布：
坐姿在背部壓力分布
3%
34%
40%
9%
10% 4%
B7
B8
B9
B10
B11
B12
躺姿在背部壓力分布
2%
26%
21%
23%
3%
25%
B7
B8
B9
B10
B11
B12
圖24 坐姿和躺姿背部6區域壓力分布
坐姿的壓力分布在B7、B8、B9、B10比躺姿
還大，而B11和B12的壓力坐姿比躺姿還小，身體
姿勢對背部的B8-B12五個區域的壓力有顯著影
響；手肘角度間的壓力分配數值都差異不大，且
其差異並不顯著。
(3) 主觀自覺偏好和不適程度問卷
 自覺不舒適症狀問卷：
經由問卷結果得知右肩部、右手肘/前臂、右
手/腕是身體不舒適程度較高的，身體姿勢對這三
個部位的問卷結果有顯著的差異；手肘角度間則
是都差異不大，且其差異並不顯著。
 主觀偏好問卷：
受測者對坐姿工作站的平均喜好程度為3.3，
大於躺姿的平均喜好程度2.72，姿勢和手肘角度對
其皆有顯著差異。
受測者在坐姿和躺姿工作站的手肘角度平均
喜好程度都是90°最大，依序為120°和150°，手肘
角度對有顯著差異，其中90°和150°的結果更是明
顯。
4.2 相關分析
(1) 滑鼠操作績效
連續按鍵和移動點選速度有顯著正相關(r=-
0.247, p= 0.046)，移動點選和電流急急棒-速度有
顯著正相關(r=0.288, p=0.019)，移動點選和拖曳施
放速度有顯著正相關(r=0.680, p=0.000)，拖曳施放
和 電 流 急 急 棒 - 速 度 有 顯 著 正 相 關 (r=0.340,
p=0.005)。
(2) 肌肉活動電位
 連續按鍵肌肉活動電位：
斜方肌和右三角肌有顯著負相關 (r=-0.255,
p=0.039)，斜方肌和右二頭肌有顯著負相關 (r=-
0.267, p=0.030)，右三角肌和右二頭肌有顯著正相
關(r=0.629, p=0.000)。
 移動點選肌肉活動電位：
移動點選時間和右伸腕肌有顯著正相關
(r=0.457, p= 0.000)，右三角肌和右二頭肌有顯著
正相關(r=0.672, p=0.000)。
 拖曳施放肌肉活動電位：
斜方肌和右二頭肌有顯著負相關(r=-0.268, p=
0.030)，拖曳施放時間和右伸腕肌有顯著正相關
(r=0.463, p=0.000)，右三角肌V.S右二頭肌有顯著
正相關(r=0.674, p=0.000)。
 電流急急棒肌肉活動電位：
電流急急棒作業-失誤次數和右二頭肌有顯著
正相關(r=0.321, p=0.009)，右三角肌和右二頭肌有
顯著正相關(r=0.658, p=0.000)。
 閱讀績效肌肉活動電位：
閱讀內容績效作業-閱讀字數和斜方肌有顯著
正相關(r=0.286, p=0.020)，右三角肌和右二頭肌有
顯著正相關(r=0.630, p=0.000)。
68717.76g 45467.27g
54416.33g 24230.30g
14301.42g 21236.96g
10
6. 結論與建議
研究的主要目的是建構一個居家型躺姿電腦
工作站，用以解決一般人久坐使用電腦的問題，
並且實際評估測試，以瞭解坐姿與躺姿使用電腦
的績效、肌肉施力的差異和身體接觸壓力分布情
況，經過討論後歸納以下結論：
1. 滑鼠和閱讀績效結果，躺姿平均數據比坐姿
差，但績效上差異不大。
2. 躺姿能明顯減低頸部斜方肌活動電位，但在
手臂右三角肌、右二頭肌和右伸腕肌活動電
位比坐姿高。
3. 躺姿量測出來的總壓力數值比坐姿還低，而
且躺姿在臀部和背部的壓力分布情形，對於
人體是較舒服、良好的。
4. 主觀問卷結果，受測者較喜好坐姿，不舒適
程度較大部位集中在眼部、右肩部、右手肘/
前臂和右手/腕。
5. 使用躺姿電腦工作站，仍然以手肘角度為
90°最佳，這是由於躺姿 90°時，手臂離身體
較近，重量負擔較輕，相對於 120°和 150°，
是較輕鬆使用的姿勢。
7. 計畫成果自評
1. 本研究計畫對於影響滑鼠作業的環境光源亮
度和受測者習慣經驗因素沒有多做評估，因
為這關係到視覺方面和學習效應研究，未來
研究應再做實驗修正，控制螢幕照度一致，
受測者習慣雷同。
2. 本年度計畫主要探討設計一躺姿電腦工作站
跟坐姿電腦工作站相比，使用起來是否有差
異，但手臂姿勢因素明顯的影響到使用躺姿
電腦工作站，受測者建議手臂平放在大腿
邊，操作滑鼠能較省力，且能改善作業績效
和主觀不適程度，因此建議後續（第二年）
需要再做研發，設計出「通用型電腦工作
站」，以排除坐姿和躺姿操作滑鼠的手臂姿
勢差異。
3. 建議後續（第二年）用來測試工作站的受測
者族群可以選用下肢不方便或高齡者來使
用，由於他們在行動上不便，坐姿較不方便
且不舒服，而且腰椎受傷的人也無法坐，因
此平躺使用電腦，對於他們來講是比較舒服
的。
參考文獻
1. 行政院主計處電子處理資料中心(2006)，「電
腦應用概況調查 93 年度調查結果」，93 年度
台閩地區電腦應用概況報告，(2006)。
2. Kroemer Grandjean 原著, 鄔慎智、藍俊雄、藍
天雄、汪慧瑜譯，人因工程，高立圖書有限公
司，台北(2000)。
3. 賴治維，「摺疊休閒躺椅之研發」，碩士論
文，國立臺北科技大學自動化科技研究所，
(2004)。
4. 蘇啟宗，「人機介面安全衛生設計規範研究-電
腦終端機工作站」，行政院勞工委員會勞工安
全衛生研究所(1996)。
5. Bendix , T., Winkel, J., Jessen, F., “Comparison of 
office chairs with fixed forwards or backwards
inclining, or tiltable seats”, European Journal of 
Applied Physiology, Vol.54,pp.378-385(1985).
6. Cook, C.J., Kothiyal, K.,“Influence of mouse 
position on muscular activity in the neck, shoulder
and arm in computer users,” Appl. 
Ergonom,Vol.29(6),pp.439–443(1998).
7. Hagberg,M., “Muscular endurance and surface 
electromyogram in isometric and dynamic
exercise”,Journal of Applied Physiology,Vol. 
51,pp.1-7(1981).
8. Hales, T.R., Sauter, L.S., Peterson, M.R., Fine, L.J.,
Putz-Anderson, V., Schleifer, L.R., Ochs, T.T.,
Bernard, B.P., “Musculoskeletal disorders among 
visual display terminal users in a telecommunicate-
ions company”, Ergonomic- s,Vol.37
(10),pp.1603–1621(1994).
9. Keegan, J., “Alternations of the lumbar curve 
related to posture and  seating”Journal of Bone 
and Joint Surgery,Vol.35,pp.589-603(1953).
10. Park, Min-Yong., Kim, Jung-Yong., Shin, Jong-
Hyun., “Ergonomic design and evaluation of a new 
VDT workstation chair with keyboard- mouse
support”, International Journal of Indus- trial
Ergonomics,Vol.26,pp.537-548(2000).
11. Schuldt, K., Ekholm, J., Harms-Ringdahl, K.,
Arborelius, U.P., Nemeth, G., “Influence of siting 
postures on neck and schoulder e.m.g during arm-
handwork”,Clin. Biomech,Vol.2 (3),pp.126–
139(1987).
12. Waersted, C.T.M., Bjorklund, R.A., Westgaard,
R.H., “Shouldermuscle tension induced by two
VDU-based tasks of different complexit-
y”Ergonomics,Vol.34 (2),pp137–150(1991).
3. 有學者研究發現行走速度和性別參數會影響足底壓力，這個發現更加確定這
兩個因子的重要性。
4. 參與會議時，輕聲細語討論是一個良好的基本禮儀，使與會的人與演講者都
可在較佳的環境進行學術研討，讓會議進行的順利，而這次研討會的會場環
境控制的很好。
5. 各國人民說英文的腔調大不相同，有些學者講得英文很快又很難聽懂，我自
覺英文聽力需要再多加磨練。
三、建議
1. 研討會每天中午安排的餐點變化少重複性高，建議應該考慮各國飲食習慣的
差異，安排比較多樣化的餐點與熱食。
2. 研討會會場有點偏僻，建議會場能距離城市中心近一點，這樣交通能方便
些。
四、攜回資料名稱及內容
1. Proceedings IEA2009 Congress 光碟片，此光碟收錄了這次參加發表的所有論
文。
2. 9th Pan-Pacific Conference on Ergonomics 和 18th World Congress of
Ergonomics 會議時程相關資訊。
3. 中華勞動衛生職業病雜志創刊 25 週年紀念光碟片，此光碟收錄了此雜志之
期刊資料。
4. 17th World Congress on Ergonomics 會議手冊，記載會議時程與內容大綱。
performance and eyestrain for the digital projector users.
METHOD
Subjects
A total of 30 volunteers aged from 20 to 24 with the average
age of 22.4 were recruited to participate in the study. Fifteen of
the participants were male and 15 were female. Before the
formal experiment, another two male volunteers took part in
the pre-examination. All subjects had 0.9 corrected visual
acuity or better and normal color vision. Prior to participating
in this experiment, the experimental process was explained in
detail to all of the participants.
Apparatus
Experimental facilities included a set of laptop (IBM X31),
a portable digital projector (TOSHIBA TDP-T91) with the
resolution of 1024 × 768 pixels, a piece of projection screen
(178 × 137 cm), and a palmtop illuminometer (Yichang LM–
81 LX). The vision was measured by E type visual acuity test
(CK-M-9). Six lamp stands and 6 electricity-saving light bulbs
were used to control the local illumination in the experimental
environment.
Experiment design and workplace conditions
The present study evaluated two independent variables:
illumination and viewing distance. Local illumination had four
levels, which were 75, 200, 450 and 750 lx. Three levels of
viewing distance were employed: 3, 6, and 9 m. Since the
character height was 43.45 mm on the projection screen, the
subtended visual angle of the character height was 50, 25, and
16.6 minutes of arc at the viewing distance of 3, 6, and 9 m,
respectively.
Four levels of local illumination were employed: 75 lx
(which is insufficient lighting level for general visual tasks),
200 lx (which is the lowest lighting level recommended for
traditional CRT-screen tasks), 450 lx (which is the normal
lighting level for ordinary office), and 750 lx (which is
recommended for difficult visual tasks). Six lamp stands,
placing beside the work tables (figure 1), were carefully moved
up or down (near or distant) to adjust the table illumination
according to the experimental conditions. The self-made
lampshades were used to reduce glares on the projection screen.
Thirty participants were randomly divided into three groups
and each group had 10 persons. Ten subjects were randomly
assigned to each of the three levels of the between-subjects
factor, viewing distance. Every subject randomly completed
the four treatments (75, 200, 450 and 750 lx) of the within-
subject factor on four different days.
Figure 1 shows the workplace arrangement in the experiment.
The digital projector was positioned on a table 76 cm in height.
The horizontal distance from the projection screen to the lens
of the projector was 240 cm. The elevation angle of the
projector base was 11 degree with respect to the table surface.
There were six subjects performing the experimental tasks at
the same time. The distances from the projection screen to the
subject’s eyes for the front, middle, and last seats were 3, 6, 
and 9 m, respectively. The subjects were forbidden to adjust
their seating positions to keep their viewing distance constant
during the experiment. The used work table was 76 cm high,
50 cm wide and 199 cm long. The ambient illumination was
produced by 6 lamp stands, which were placed beside the
tables. The color temperature of each bulb was about 6500 K.
The self-made lampshades were used to adjust the illumination
level on the table according to the experimental treatments. No
glare appeared on both of the projection screen and the tables.
Figure 1. The workplace arrangement used in the experiment.
10-min proofreading task
Work session 1
30-min film watching task
10-min proofreading task
Work session 2
30-min film watching task
10-min proofreading task
Work session 3
30-min film watching task
Figure 2. The work process for each experimental trial.
Experimental Tasks and procedure
Each experimental trial took two hours to perform the visual
tasks by watching the projection screen. Each experimental
trial contained three 40-min work sessions. Each session
consisted of a 10-min proofreading task and a 30-min film
watching task. The work process for each trial was illustrated
in figure 2. Every subject was asked to randomly perform four
experimental trials on four different days. Four different
articles for proofreading tasks were made by the Microsoft
Power Point program. These articles were similar and
randomly assigned to the four experimental treatments. Each
article had a simple story and would display on the continuous
60 slides. The text was set to be the Standard K type of font.
The layout of each slide was divided into two areas, i.e. left
and right areas. These two areas simultaneously presented the
Figure 3. The layout of the slides projected on the screen for
the proofreading task.
and Furuta, 1997; Wu and Chan, 2006; Wu, et al., 2007).
Therefore, the character size in terms of the subtended visual
angle plays an important role on reading-related performance
no matter using a VDT or a projection screen. The greater
character size would obviously lead to better reading-related
performance.
For the film-watching tasks, the viewing distance also
significantly affected the film-watching performance. This may
be due to that the subjects who sat closely to the projection
screen (with 3 m viewing distance) had fewer distractions
within their visual field and thus easily concentrated on the
video. Besides, the subtitles of a film looked greater and the
audio listened louder while the viewing distance was shorter.
These are the reasons why the 3 m viewing distance had a
significantly better film-watching performance than the other
two viewing distances (6 and 9 meters).
It is interesting that local illumination effect was not
significant on all of the dependent measures in the current
study. It meant that the subjects’visual performances and
eyestrain were similar for watching from the projection screen
under different levels of local illumination (75, 200, 450, and
750 lx). This finding is not consistent with those of the
previous VDT-based studies (Ostberg, 1980; Shieh and Lin,
2000; Xu and Zhu, 1990). The reasons why this study found no
significant effect of local illumination on visual performance
and eyestrain could be explained as the following:
(1) The projection screen is obviously farther from the user
than the VDT is. The local lighting in this study was so distant
from the projection screen that had little effect on the text
legibility and luminance contrast of the projected content. On
the contrary, because the VDT is always located on the
worktable near and in front of the user, the ambient
illumination on the worktable will have significant influence on
the visibility of the VDT, and thus will affect visual
performance and fatigue of the users.
(2) The visual tasks in the current study were designed to let
people pay most time for watching the projection screen
instead of looking at the worktable. The projection area was
controlled in dark environment (50 lx illumination) in order to
offer clear picture and adequate luminance contrast on the
projection screen, no matter what the local illumination is.
Based on the reasons mentioned above, we thus suggest that
when the brightness and contrast ratio of the projected content
are able to produce good legibility, different local illumination
levels will not produce obviously different visual performances
and eyestrain for the digital projector users. However, further
research is required to confirm this theory.
CONCLUSION
The results clearly present a significant effect of viewing
distance on visual performance and perceived eyestrain for
using a projection screen. Since the actual character height on
the projection screen was kept constant (43.45 mm) in the
experiment, the viewing distance effect can be considered the
effect of visual angle for character height. The recommended
viewing distance for watching a projection screen shall depend
on the purpose and content of the visual tasks. Shorter viewing
distance (about 3 m) is suitable for performing complex visual
tasks or reading text with a smaller character size on the
projection screen. If the projection area can be controlled in
dark lighting condition (about 50 lx), local illumination is not
an important factor that can affect visual performance for
watching a projection screen. Based on all of the experimental
results in this study, it is clear that local illumination had little
effect on the visual performance for prolonged visual tasks
with the projection screen. We therefore suggest that it is not
necessary to provide local lighting if the users perform visual
tasks mostly by watching a projection screen. In other words,
the local lighting should be offered only if the users need to
frequently read documents or take notes while watching from a
projection screen.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The authors acknowledge the National Science Council of the
Republic of China (Contract No: NSC94-2213-E-324-011) for
financially supporting this research.
REFERENCES
Bernard, M.L., Chaparro, B.S., Mills, M.M., and Halcomb,
C.G. 2003, Comparing the effects of text size and format
on the readability of computer-displayed Time New Roman
and Arial text, International Journal of Human-Computer
Studies, 59, 823-835.
Cai, D., Chi, C.F., and You, M. 2001, The legibility threshold
of Chinese characters in three-type styles, International
Journal of Industrial Ergonomics, 27, 9-17.
Chan, A.H.S. and Lee, P.S.K. 2005, Effect of display factors on
Chinese reading times, comprehension scores and
preferences, Behaviour & Information Technology, 24, 81-
91.
Human Factor Society (HFS). 1988, American national
standard for human factors engineering of visual display
terminal workstations (ANSI/HFS Standard No. 100-1988).
Human Factor Society, Santa Monica, CA.
Jaschinski, W., Heuer, H., and Kylian, H. 1999, A procedure to
determine the position of visual display relative to the
eyes, Ergonomics, 42, 535-549.
Jainta, S. and Jaschinski, W. 2002, Fixation display: Binocular
vergence accuracy for a visual display at different
positions relative to the eyes, Human Factors, 44, 443-
450.
Kingery, D. and Furuta, R. 1997, Skimming electronic
newspaper headlines: a study of typeface, point size,
screen resolution, and monitor size, Information
Processing & Management, 33, 685-696.
Lin, C.C., 2005. Effects of screen luminance combination
and text color on visual performance with TFT-LCD,
International Journal of Industrial Ergonomics, 35, 229–235.
Ostberg, O. 1980, Accommodation and visual fatigue in
display word. In: Grandjean, E. and Vigliani, E. (EDs),
Ergonomic aspects of visual display terminals, pp.41-52.
Sanders, M.S. and McCormick, E.J. 1993, Human Factors in
Engineering and Design, 7th Edition. McGraw-Hill, New
York, pp.106-107.
Shieh, K.K. and Lin, C.C. 2000, Effects of screen type,
ambient illumination, and color combination on VDT visual
Effects of e-map format and sub-window on navigation performance
and glance behavior
Hsin-Chieh Wua*, Ching-Torng Linb, Ting-Yen Chienb
aDepartment of Industrial Engineering and Management, Chaoyang University of Technology, Taiwan
bDepartment of Information Management, Da-Yeh University, Taiwan
* Corresponding author. E-Mail address: hcwul@cyut.edu.tw (H.-C. Wu)
With the advances in global position system (GPS), automobile manufacturers have begun to produce
intelligent transportation systems to assist drivers, such as in-vehicle navigation systems. These
navigation systems combine an electronic map (e-map) and permanent roadway signs to inform drivers
of their current locations and traffic information visually or aurally. To date, the moving e-map is still
the primary medium for navigation or GPS applications; it can’t be completely replaced by voice
guidance. An on-road driving experiment was conducted to investigate the effects of e-map format and
sub-window on navigation performance and glance behavior while using an in-vehicle navigation
system. Twenty participants navigated an urban route using the navigation display under 2D or 3D e-
map conditions, and either with a sub-window or not. Driver navigation errors and visual glance data
were collected during the trials. Results show that a sub-window reduced navigation errors but
increased the time spent glancing to the visual display. There was no difference in performance
between the 2D and 3D e-map conditions. However, 3D e-map led to more visual glance behavior to
the navigation display than 2D one. The wider implications for the design of navigation visual displays
are discussed.
Keywords: Driving performance; Interface design; Navigation display
INTRODUCTION
With the advances in global position system (GPS),
automobile manufacturers have begun to produce intelligent
transportation systems to assist drivers, such as in-vehicle
navigation systems. These navigation systems combine an
electronic map (e-map) and permanent roadway signs to inform
drivers of their current locations and traffic information
visually or aurally. They offer a technological solution to
driver navigation in an unfamiliar area. While drivers can
benefit from receiving route guidance information and traffic
status, they have to face heavier visual loading at the same time.
Besides, when receiving related information provided by the
navigation system, drivers need to keep their eyes off the road,
which may seriously influence driving safety. Distraction from
the primary driving task is one of main causes of traffic
dangers (Wierwille, 1995). Previous studies have also reported
that the increase of visual demand for using a navigation
system could bring negative impacts on driving safety and
performance (Ross and Burnett, 2001; Toshiaki, et al., 2003;
Williams and Helbig, 2006). Therefore, one major requirement
for display-based navigation systems is that information must
be readable and understandable fast and reliably (Baumann, et
al., 2004).
The e-map presentation technique has been developed from
two-dimensional (2D) to three-dimensional (3D) formats (Van
Orden and Broyles, 2000). As we know, the actual world is
spread in the 3D space and thus the 3D format is more like
‘real world’representation that may imply better human
perception and performance. However, previous studies have
revealed that 3D displays are not markedly superior to 2D ones
for the air combat or air traffic control tasks (Tham and
Wickens, 1993; Van Orden and Broyles, 2000). These studies
mostly focused on the performance of pilots or air traffic
controllers; little research has aimed at evaluating the
differences in driving performance between 2D and 3D formats.
There is a need to evaluate the effect of e-map format on
driving performance and visual demand while using a
navigation display.
In recent years, the multi-windows interface technology has
made the navigation display capable of simultaneously
presenting both a main-window and a sub-window. The sub-
window is usually designed to highlight the information of turn
direction (i.e. present the region of intersection at large scale
next to the main window) when approaching an intersection.
Combining a main-window with a sub-window, the navigation
display could provide noticeable and redundant route guidance
that might result in better navigational performance than a
single-window display. But an extra sub-window may impose
more visual demand on the users. The effect of sub-window on
driving performance is still not fully understood because most
navigation-related studies used single window display only
(Liu, 2000; Streeter, et al., 1985; Sikanen, et al., 2005; Van
Orden and Broyles, 2000). Besides, how sub-window interacts
driving trials.
Visual glance behavior was measured with a digital video
camera in order to determine the mean duration and number of
glances to the in-vehicle visual display during the driving trial.
Each duration of glance was estimated by replaying the
recorded video through Windows Media Player9.0. The replay
speed was set as 1/30 of the normal speed. The experimenter
carefully watched the slow-motion video and recorded all the
glance durations for every subject.
The number of glances was defined as the total number of
glances to the in-vehicle display during the driving trial. A
greater glance duration and number of glances for a driver
watching at the in-vehicle display are assumed to indicate
higher distraction that may affect driving safety.
Data analysis
Descriptive statistics included analyzing means and standard
deviations for every dependent measure. Analysis of variance
(ANOVA) method was applied to identify whether the e-map
format and sub-window had any impacts on the dependent
variables (α= 0.05). If the responded data distribution was not 
normality, Mann-Whitney procedure (non-parametric
counterpart of the two-sample t-test) was used to evaluate the
studied main efects (α= 0.05)
RESULTS
Fig. 2 shows the results of the number of navigation errors
for the 2D and 3D e-map conditions, using either a sub-
window or not. Due to the between-subjects design, each bar
represents the average navigation errors made from N= 5
subjects. Overall the navigation errors made by the subjects
using the 2D e-map was 2.3 (SD= 1.6). Under the no sub-
windows condition the number of navigation errors was 3.2
(SD= 1.5), while under the one sub-window condition the
number of navigation errors dropped to 1.4 (SD= 1.3). A
similar result was found for the 3D e-map format. The overall
navigation errors made by the subjects using the 3D e-map was
2.1 (SD= 1.5). Under the no sub-windows condition the
number of navigation errors was 2.8 (SD= 1.9), while under
the one sub-window condition the number of navigation errors
dropped to 1.4 (SD= 0.5).
Fig. 2. The number of navigation errors made by the subjects in each
experimental condition, according to e-map format and sub-window.
A two-factorial ANOVA with e-map format (2D or 3D) and
sub-window (with or without sub-window) revealed that the
difference in the number of navigation errors between
conditions with and without a sub-window was significant, F(1,
16)= 6.4, p= 0.022. However, the difference in the number of
navigation errors between the 2D and 3D e-map conditions
was not significant, F(1, 16)= 0.1, p= 0.756. The interaction
between the e-map format and sub-window factor was also not
significant, F(1, 16)= 0.1, p= 0.756.
(a) Mean duration of glances
(b) Number of glances
Fig. 3. The visual glance behavior responded to the display during the trial,
according to e-map format and sub-window. Results of mean duration of
glances are shown in the upper plot (a), and those of number of glances in the
lower plot (b).
Fig. 3(a) illustrates the differences in the mean duration of
glances for the 2D and 3D e-map conditions, using either a
sub-window or not. It can be seen that the subjects took an
overall mean duration of glances of 1.2 sec (SD= 0.5 sec) to
the 2D e-map display. Under the no sub-windows condition the
mean duration of glances was 0.8 sec (SD= 0.2 sec), while
under the one sub-window condition the mean duration of
glances raised to 1.6 sec (SD= 0.2 sec). A similar result was
found concerning the 3D e-map format. Overall mean duration
of glances was 1.4 sec (SD= 0.6). The no sub-windows
condition led to a mean duration of glances of 0.9 (SD= 0.3),
while under the one sub-window condition the mean duration
of glances raised to 1.9 (SD= 0.2).
A two-factorial ANOVA with e-map format (2D or 3D) and
sub-window (with or without sub-window) indicated that the
0
1
2
3
4
5
2D 3D
E-map format
N
um
be
r
of
na
vi
ga
tio
n
er
ro
rs
No sub-windows One sub-window
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
2D 3D
E-map format
M
ea
n
du
ra
tio
n
of
gl
an
ce
s
(s
ec
)
No sub-windows One sub-window
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
2D 3D
E-map format
N
um
be
r
of
gl
an
ce
s
No sub-windows One sub-window
Streeter, L.A., Vitello, D., and Wonsiewicz, S.A., 1985. How
to tell people where to go: comparing navigational aids,
International Journal of Man-Machine Studies 22, 549-
562.
Tham, M. and Wickens, C.D., 1993. Evaluation of perspective
and stereoscopic displays as alternatives to plan view
displays in air traffic control, Aviation Research
Laboratory, Institute of Aviation Technical Report.
(ARL-93-4/FAA-93-1), University of Illinois at Urbana-
Champaign.
Toshiaki, M., Kazumitsu, S., and Takahiko, K., 2003. Basic
assessment of automobile navigation systems from a view
point of visual psychology, Graduate School of Human
Sciences, Osaka University, Japan, JSPS Research Fellow,
Japan.
Van Orden, K.F. and Broyles, J.W., 2000. Visuospatial task
performance as a function of two- and three-dimensional
display presentation techniques, Displays 12, 17-24.
Wierwille, W.W., 1995. Development of an initial model
relating driver in-vehicle visual demands to accident rate,
Third Annual Mid-Atlantic Human Factors Conference
Proceedings, (Blacksburg, VA: Virginia Polytechnic
Institute and State University).
Williams, M. and Helbig, R., 2006. Evaluation of information
and communication systems based on design guidelines
and liability issues, The 16th World Congress on
Ergonomics (Maastricht, Netherlands).
The Model of Center of Pressure Progression for Adults
Min-Chi, Chiu 1 Hsin-Chieh, Wu 2 Li-Yu, Chang 2
1 Department of School of Occupational Therapy, Chung Shan Medical University,
No. 110,Sec.1,Jianguo N.Rd.,Taichung City 40201,Taiwan, R.O.C.
2 Department of Industrial Engineering and Management, Chaoyang University of Technology,
No.168, Jifong E. Rd., Wufong Township Taichung County, 41349, Taiwan, R.O.C.
Abstract
This study aims to build the model of center of pressure progression (COPP) for adults. The COPP is a
trajectory of center of foot pressure. The effect of walking speed and gender on COPP model will be elucidated
in this study. Thirty health young adults (15 men and 15 women) were recruited to participate in this study. All
subjects did not have relevant musculoskeletal disease and all of them have the normal arch curve (arch index/AI
range between 0.21~0.26). A nested-factorial experimental design was applied. All subjects were asked to walk
under four different speeds (self-selected, 3 km/hr, 4 km/hr and 5 km/hr) separately. A foot pressure
measurement system (RS-scan ® system) was used to collect data of the center of pressure (COP) progression,
progression angle (PA) and the velocity of COP. The results of this study indicate that the percentage of time (%
time) of the stance phase in initial contact phase (ICP), forefoot contact phase (FFCP), foot flat phase (FFP) and
forefoot push-off phase (FFPOP) were about 7.0%, 4.8%, 48.8% and 39.4%, respectively. The progression angle
(PA) is 4.1degree (SD=1.6) with an inward curve and the average velocity of COP is 31.6 cm/s (SD=5.3) for the
COPP model. Walking speed influences the % time of the stance phase in the FFP and FFPOP. As the increasing
walking speed, the time % of COP progression diminishes on the FFP and increase on the FFPOP. Moreover,
gender effect affect the progression angle, males have significantly larger deviating angle than males during the
FFCP, FFP and FFPOP. The COPP model can be the useful information for clinical rehabilitation in evaluation,
gait training, and footwear design.
Keywords: Work center of pressure; progression angle; walking speed; gender; velocity of center of pressure
1. INTRODUCTION
More and more new techniques and methods were
applied to evaluate human walking. Quantifying the
characteristics of normal gait could be not only
useful for the evaluation and treatment of clinical
rehabilitation, but also beneficial for footwear and
orthoses design. The measurement of center of foot
pressure (COP) is one of the objective parameter that
record the magnitude and distribution of dynamic
plantar load during walking. The COP is an
instantaneous force on the planter surface which is a
component of the resultant vertical ground-reaction
force reacting with plantar surface of foot. The COP
progression is a course which the coordinate of
center of pressure passes from hidfoot through
forefoot. Many studies had provided some valuable
information to describe the feature of COP for
normal subjects; however, how the walking speed
and gender affect the pathway of COP are still
unclear. Thus, the first aim of this study was to
completely represent the model of COP progression
for normal adults by the measurements of time-
distance parameter, progression angle and the
velocity of COP. Moreover, the effect of walking
speed and gender on the COP progression model will
be elucidated in this study.
Han et al (1999) used an in-sole pressure system
to measure the path of COP and indicated that COP
displacement was about 83% of foot contact length
and 18% of forefoot contact width. The velocity of
COP of middle-aged adults was about 22-27 cm/s
during each functional rocker action. Cornwall and
McPoil (2000) described the velocity of COP while
sensors /cm 2 and a 3D-Box interface which can
synchronize with other measurement tools. All data
were recorded with a maximum measurement
frequency of 500 Hz and processed by using the
software of Scientific footscan® (RSscan
INTERNATIONAL).
Motion capture system
In order to monitor the walking speed, as fig. 1 (b), a
six-camera (Charge Coupled Device/CCD) motion
capture system (VICON 460 Motion System, Oxford
Metrics Ltd., UK) was applied to record the
displacement of the center of mass of the subject
while striding on the walkway. Three reflecting
markers were placed at right anterior superior iliac
spine (RASIS), left anterior superior iliac spine
(LASIS) and sacrum, respectively. The marker
protocol was based on the Helen Hayes model. The
software of Matlab v. 7.0 (Mathworks Inc.) was
applied to calculate the displacement of center of
mass. The sampling rate was 120 Hz with low-pass
filtering at 6 Hz.
Figure 1 (a) Foot pressure measurement system, and
(b)motion capture system.
2.4. Experimental procedure
All subjects participate in this experiment
voluntarily and full out an informed consent forms
which was explain the process, requirements and
measurements during the experiment tasks. At the
beginning, some basic information (body weight and
height) and the relevant foot anthropometric data
were collected. Then each subject was asked to
barefoot walking with preferred cadence on the
treadmill by four different speeds (i.e. 3, self-selected,
4 or 5 km/hr), respectively. During treadmill walking,
a metronome was used to obtain individual’s walking 
tempo. After treadmill walking, the subject follows
the tempo being paced by a metronome to maintain
the same walking speed and continues to walk along
a rectangle walkway (8m×3m, and 0.6m width path).
Measurements including the coordinate of center of
pressure, progression angle and the velocity of COP
were taken during walking on the 8-m straight
walkway. By each walking trial, subject was asked
walking continuously until thirty steps were recorded
completely.
2.5. Data analysis
Data reliability of the x-, y-coordinate of COP was
tested by Intra-class Correlation Coefficients (ICCs).
Moreover, analysis of variance (ANOVA) was
conducted to analyze the effect of walking speed and
gender on the model of COP progression. Post hoc
testing was conducted by using Duncan’s multiple 
range tests. Statistical analyses were performed by
using the statistical analysis software SPSS v. 14.0.
3. RESULTS
3.1. The model of COP progression
The displacement of COP was recorded by the x-
and y-coordinate. The y-axis is a longitudinal foot
axis which is the line from middle heel (first point of
center of pressure) to metatarsal area and the x-axis
is perpendicular to the longitudinal foot axis (as
fig.2). For data consistency, Intra-class Correlation
Coefficients (ICCs) was used to calculate the
absolute displacement of COP. As table 2, the inter-
trial reliability of the COP variables, for x-coordinate,
the ICCx was between 0.55 and 0.90 and, for y-
coordinate; the ICCy was between 0.93 and 0.98 with
different walking speed and gender. The result
indicated a moderate to good reliability for the COP
variables during the barefoot walking.
Figure 2 The model of center of pressure progression for
adult.
Table 2 The Intra-class Correlation Coefficients (ICCs) for
the x- and y-coordinate of COP.
means and standard deviations of the response
measures. It reveals a tendency that as the increasing
walking speed, the time % of COP progression
diminishes in the FFP and increase in the FFPOP.
Moreover, as walking with higher speed, the average
velocity of COP gradually increase. It is reasonable
that the velocity of COP increase gradually with the
higher walking speed in the ICP, FFCP, FFP and
FFPOP.
Table 4 The results of Duncan’s multiple range tests for 
speed factor.
Furthermore, table 5 displays the results of
Duncan’smultiple range tests on the gender effect.
The progression angle (PA) of COP displays
different degree of deflection between men and
women. During the FFCP, men had significantly
larger outward angle than women. However, as going
forward in the FFP and FFPOP, men had more
inward progression angle than women. For the model
of COP progression, men had remarkable inward
progressing angle than women.
Table 5 The results of Duncan’s multiple range tests for 
gender factor.
4. DISSCUSSION
4.1. The model of COP progression
The anthropometric data reveals that men and
women have significantly diversity in the body height,
body weight and relevant foot size. Although, men
have longer leg length, foot length and broader foot
width than women, however, there were no
difference in self-selected walking speed and
cadences. The subjective comfortable walking speed
for health young adults is 3.7km/h.
Al subjects’ foot size was normalized into a 
standard foot with 24.5 cm length and 8.9 cm width.
Thus, the original displacement of COP was
transferred into the relative coordinate to fit on the
model of COP progression. In this study, the total
course of COP progression under plantar region
corresponded to 95% of normalized foot length and
31% of normalized foot width. The percentage of
time (time %) for COP processing from hidfoot to
forefoot through the ICP, FFCP, FFP and FFPOP
were about 7.0%, 4.8%, 48.8% and 39.4%,
respectively. The proceeding direction of COP from
the middle heel to the midline between the first and
secondary toes combines several inward and outward
curve. The average progression angle was 4.1
(SD=1.6) degree with inward curve for four different
walking speeds (3, 3.7, 4 and 5 km/h). Moreover, the
average velocity of COP for the model of COP
progression was 31.6 (SD=5.3) cm/s.
4.2. The effects of walking speed and gender
Walking speed significantly influence the time %
of COP progression during FFP, FFPOP, the velocity
of COP in the ICP, FFCP, FFP and FFPOP. It is
interesting that as increasing walking speed, the time
% of COP progression decreases in the FFP and
increase in the FFPOP. It indicates that when slower
walking, the COP progression have more time in the
FFP. On the other hand, the COP progression would
spend more duration in the FFPOP when faster
walking. It implies that the phase of forefoot push-off
(FFPOP) could be an important stage to accelerate
walking speed when faster walking. Moreover, with
the higher walking speed, the velocity of COP
simultaneously increases in the four sub-classified
phases. Walking with the speed of 5km/h displays
higher average velocity of COP and higher velocity
of COP in the ICP, FFCP, FFP and FFPOP.
Gender effect significantly affects the progression
angle (PA). The progression angle is a forward
direction of COP from hidfoot to forefoot. In this
study, the progression angle of COP and the four
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
