computation complexity. In the proposed coder, although not the optimal, but a good 
combination can be obtained without doing actual coding nor exhaustive search. 
研究方法 
一、WORKING FLOW 
The proposed coding flow is shown in Fig 1. Every block in the encoding 
process in Fig 1 will be described in the following subsections. Detail about tree 
binding and determine length of binding would be described in another section. The 
tree encoding uses a modified version of SPIHT with arithmetic coding, which is 
similar to CEIHT[9]. The decoding is merely the reversal of the encoding process.  
 
Fig 1: The working flow of the proposed coder 
 
Determine Window Type 
In order to reduce the pre-echo caused by the fast transient part in the audio 
signal, after the raw data is read, the proposed coder uses the implementation of 
FAAC[10], which is based on the MPEG-4 AAC standard[11] to determine the 
analysis window type for each frame. 
 
MDCT Filter Banking 
The procedure of creating filter bank is the same with AAC standard[11]. 
Assuming the input signal is x, window function is w, and cij is the jth MDCT 
coefficient of ith frame. The MDCT formula can be written as: 
             (1) 
As the standard of AAC, the frame size of a long window is 2048 with 50% overlap, 
which means N=1024 in (1). The size of short window is 256, in this case N=128 in 
(1). If short window is required, a frame is divided into eight smaller subframes which 
will be interleaved to form a interleaved frame. To be specific, coefficients with the 
same index in sub-frames are grouped together in the resulted interleaved frame. The 
interleaving operation is formulated as: 
stored tree in the next frame. In practice, we allow 16 consecutive tree bindings at 
maximum. Because if a tree contains too many frames, the delay of the decoding side 
would be too long. 
 
Tree Binding 
The new tree will be combined with the previously stored tree. Assuming n is the 
length of binding determined in the previous step, first n nodes of the trees will be 
merged together. The offspring set of the new node is the union of offspring set of two 
original nodes. The new tree is temporarily stored until no more binding operations 
will be performed on it.  
 
Encode Tree 
The tree will be encoded by a SPIHT based coding scheme. Since the number of child 
node and the number of value of each node are ambulatory, the original SPIHT 
algorithm has been slightly modified to adept the situation, the modified algorithm is 
depicted in Table 1. The bitstream length of this tree will be the sum of Bn among all 
frames included in this tree. 
 
Side Information Description 
The side information contains necessary data about how to reconstruct the SOT at the 
decoder side. The layout of side information is depicted in Fig 2. The first is BlockSize, 
which indicates the size of this block in bit. The second is a 4-bit number, N, then it's 
followed by N pairs of WindowType and BindingLength. At last, it comes the 
bitstream of the block. In our experiment, one block will contain 5.25 MDCT frames 
on average. Thus the amortized amount of side information is 8.81 bits per frame or 
0.38kbps. 
 
Fig 2: Layout of side information. Fig 2: Layout  side information. 
belongs to   or .  To be specific, if , 
means . 
 
Binding 
Assuming we are about to bind two trees X, Y into Z, with binding length n. Here, we 
assume n is a multiple of four. Let N be the length of  MDCT frame. Let X = {(x, i)}, 
Y={(y,j)},  Z={(z, k)}, x,y represents xth and yth frame and z={x,y} represents that Z 
is the composition by X and Y, i,j,k = 0 ~ N-1. We construct  and  
by : 
                (7) 
                    (8) 
Nodes in X, Y with coordinates (a,b), a = x or y, b  n are unaffected by the binding. 
These nodes are also appended to Z, their coordinates and offspring sets keep 
unaltered. Fig 3 is a sample of tree binding with n=8, some nodes in the new tree have 
multiple values. 
 
Fig 3: An example of tree binding with n = 8 
Determine Length of Binding 
Determining the best length of binding can be done by an exhaustive search. But this 
would greatly increase the encoding time. As a result, a preanalysis to determine the 
length of binding without performing actual coding is required. Fortunately, there is a 
previous work which could estimate the bitstream length of an encoded SOT[14], 
including how many bits used in each coefficient and how many bits used in each of 
           (13) 
Since most of the coding is loosy, we can perform a small pre-processing before (13) 
to reduce the error. Again from [14], we can estimate the smallest quantization level m 
at certain target bitrate. The preprocessing is, treat all coefficients with absolute 
magnitude smaller than 2
m
 as 2
m-1 
before evaluating (13). Of course, if only part of the 
bitstream being decoded at the decoder side, effect of this preprocessing also reduces. 
 
三、OBJECTIVE RESULT 
We compared the proposed coder(TB) with RFO[7], FAAC[10] and IAAC[15]. Since 
we used a similar framework as RFO, we put it into our comparison. FAAC is a open 
source version of the AAC coding standard. IAAC(iTunes AAC) is one of the most 
popular AAC coder with decent coding quality. We also put the proposed codec 
without tree binding(w/o TB) into the test to exam the improvement brought by the 
tree binding. 
Impairment Description ITU-R Grade ODG 
Imperceptible 5.0 0.0 
Perceptible, but not annoying 4.0 -1.0 
Slightly annoying 3.0 -2.0 
Annoying 2.0 -3.0 
Very annoying 1.0 -4 
Table 2: Description of quality meaning of ODG score 
Name Time Description 
Toms 0:19 Tom's Diner, Suzanne Vega 
Vbr 0:04 God loves his children, with 
Lou Reid and Carolina 
Cast 0:06 Castanet 
Violin 0:15 Solo violin 
Yellow 0:24 The Yellow River in Wrath 
(The Yellow River Piano 
Concerto), Li Jian/Radio 
Symphony Orchestra Berlin, 
ELITE. 
Trpt 0:17 Solo Trumpet 
At 0:30 Female vocal 
Gspi 0:09 Solo Glockenspiel with reverb 
Op9 0:15 Op.9 No.3 (the 3rd movement, 
Beethoven String Trio), 
(a) (b) 
(c) (d) 
(e) (f) 
Fig 4: ODG result of (a)Toms, (b)Vbr, (c)Cast, (d)Violin, (e)Yellow, (g)Trpt 
In the past, bit-plane coding may have been considered not suitable for audio coders. 
In some previous works, bit-plane audio coders begin to comparable with 
non-scalable state-of-art coders in low bitrate (32Kbps~ 64Kbps) [12]. Also, their 
advantage of scalability is often be ignored. The proposed coder shown that bit-plane 
coding on audio is still potential in higher bitrate. With the aid of information of 
different frames and the tree binding technique, SOT-based audio coding no longer 
restricted by the scope of single frame. Our future works include integrating common 
techniques such as psychoacoustic model or noise shaping to mitigate the artifacts. 
We also interested in finding better tree-construction mechanism to cluster spectral 
components with similar characteristic into a tree. 
 
參考文獻 
 
[1]C. D. Creusere, A new method of robust image compression based on the 
embedded zerotree wavelet algorithm,IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing ,1997, 
[2]A. Said and W.A. Pearlman, A new fast and efficient image codec based on set 
partitioning in hierarchical trees,IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video 
Technology ,1996, 
[3]W. B. Huang and W. Y. Su and Y. H. Kuo, VLSI implementation of a modified 
efficient SPIHT encoder,IEICE Trans. Fundam. Electron., Commun., Comput. 
Sci. ,2006, 
[4]M. Raad, A. Mertins, and I. Burnett, Audio compression using the MLT and 
SPIHT,Proceedings of DSPCS’ 02 ,2002, 
[5]W.-C. Chang and J.-X. Wang and Alvin W.Y. Su, Harmonic Structure 
Reconstruction in Audio Compression Method Based on Spectral Oriented Trees,AES 
Convention ,2006, 
[6]Wei-Chen Chang, On the Use of Bit-plane Audio Coding in MDCT 
Domain, ,2008,http://etdncku.lib.ncku.edu.tw/ETD-db/ETD-search/view_etd?URN=e
td-0826108-123143 
[7]Yu-Lin Wang  Wei-Hsiang Liao  Su, A.W.-Y., A SOT based digital audio coder 
using reference frame ordering method,Circuits and Systems (ISCAS), Proceedings of 
2010 IEEE International Symposium on ,2010, 
[8]Schijndel, Nicolle H. van; Bensa, Julien; Christensen, Mads G.; Colomes, 
Catherine; Edler, Bernd; Heusdens, Richard; Jensen, Jesper; Jensen, Søren Holdt; 
Kleijn, W. Bastiaan; Kot, Valery; Kövesi, Balázs; Lindblom, Jonas; Massaloux, 
Dominique; Niamut, Omar A.; Nordén, Fredrik; Plasberg, Jan H.; Vafin, Renat; Par, 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
日期： 98 年 9 月 22 日 
計畫編號 NSC96-2628-E-006-142-MY3 
計畫名稱 以泛音結構分析為基礎之數位音樂壓縮方法與網路串流
之應用 
出國人員姓名 王添明 服務機構及職稱 國立成功大學 
資訊工程學系 
博士生 
會議時間 98 年 9 月 1 日
~9 月 4 日 
會議地點 義大利 哥摩(Como, 
Italy) 
會議名稱 2009 第 12 屆數位音訊音效國際研討會 
The 12th edition of the International Conference on Digital 
Audio Effects (DAFx09) 
發表論文題目 針對擦絃樂器之複音音樂錄音所設計之轉換合成系統 
Trans-Synthesis System for Polyphonic Musical Recordings 
of Bowed-String Instruments 
 
一、參加會議經過  
「第 12 屆數位音訊音效國際研討會」係由米蘭理工學院(Politecnico di 
Milano)之影像與聲音訊號處理小組(The Image and Sound Processing Group, ISPG)
主辦之全球年會，此一會議為音樂與聲音訊號處理方面最大且最被肯定會議之一。
本年在義大利米蘭理工學院之哥摩校區舉行，參與人數約 200 人。本會議分為口
說報告及壁報報告 2 個會場同時進行，口說報告每篇論文發表 20 分鐘。壁報論
文發表 3 個場次，每篇論文張貼 120 分鐘。共有 78 篇論文發表。 
本次大會主席由 Augusto Sarti 教授擔任，議程主席由 Marco Tagliasacchi 擔任。
大會於民國 98 年 9 月 1 日三場指導演講，並於民國 98 年 9 月 2~4 日每天早上一
場主題演講(Keynote address)，分別為 
 Tutorials 
 Rudolf Rabenstein, Wavefield modeling part 1: Fundamentals 
 Augusto Sarti and Fabio Antonacci, Wavefield modeling part 2: a Primer on 
Geometrical Acoustics 
 Federico Avanzini and Federico Fontana, Numerical techniques for virtual 
musical instruments and virtual analog audio effects 
 Keynote address 1 
 K.H.Brandenburg, Wave Field Synthesis: Basics and Applications 
 Keynote address 2 
 P.R. Cook, Vocoders: we have Loved, Loathed and Laughed at 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/12/17
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以泛音結構分析為基礎之數位音樂壓縮方法與網路串流之應用
計畫主持人: 蘇文鈺
計畫編號: 96-2628-E-006-142-MY3 學門領域: 自然語言處理與語音處理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
國際合作: 計畫內之博士班研究生先後至法國 IRCAM 進行合作研究(目前為廖
偉祥，明年為王添明)，期效益將在計年後一一顯現。 
 
1. ICME 
On SOT coefficient ordering of a SPIHT coder and its fast analysis method 
Yu-Lin Wang； Jin-Xin Wang； Young, C.P.； Su, A.W.Y.；  
Multimedia and Expo, 2008 IEEE International Conference 
Publication Year: 2008 , Page(s): 73 - 76  
2. ICIP 
Fingerprint compression: An adaptive and fast DCT-based approach  
Wang, Yu-Lin； Liao, Chia-Te； Su, Alvin W.Y.； Lai, Shang-Hong；  
Image Processing (ICIP), 2010 17th IEEE International Conference 
Publication Year: 2010 , Page(s): 3109 - 3112  
 
3. ISCAS 
A Sot Based Digital Audio Coder Using Reference Frame Ordering Method
Yu Lin Wang, Wei Hsiang Liao, Alvin Wen Yu Su 
IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and Systems (ISCAS), May 31st, 
2010 
 
 
4. IET  
Combined Significance Map Coding for still image compression 
Yu-Lin Wang； Jin-Xin Wang； Su, A.W.Y.；  
Accepted by  IET Image Processing 
 
4. 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
本計畫成果除了已經發表的國際會議論文之外，其對應之期刊論文即將完成，完成會將會
投稿。視接受情況會再加以報告。另外此一技術延伸製影像壓縮後已產出兩篇會議論文與一
篇期刊論文。 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
從可階式(Scalable)的音訊壓縮技術來說，本研究所產出之方法在同一位元率下的音質就
我們的測試比目前最佳的標準，也就是 Scalable AAC，還要好上一截，就連不可階式的
(Non-Scalable)的官方標準 AAC 的編碼程式所壓縮出來的也不如我們的方法。只有在與蘋
果公司的 iAAC 相比，我們才在多數標準測試檔案略遜(某些特別的檔案我們還可以贏)，
但是 iAAC 也是不可階的，這一點可以從我們的報告裏看出來。 
 
因為是可階式的，所以非常適合在網路串流的環境裡使用，更有甚者，只要有 Base Layer
收到就可以部分解碼，對於即時的撥出時遇到封包遺失特別有效。在目前可以見到的 Audio 
Coder，我們自己認為已經沒有方法比我們提出的方法更好。 
 
此一方法的延伸，我們另外做了影像壓縮的演算法，俱有相同可階式的特性，壓縮率超過
J2K 與 H.264 I-Frame，此一成果已經發表為ㄧ篇其刊論文。 
 
此一研究的下一步可以結合如 HE-AAC理的 SBR 技術進一步將壓縮效果提升。 
 
 
