threshold on essential shared images in recovering 
the secret image. 
英文關鍵詞： secret image sharing, essential shared image, cheater 
identification 
 
 2 
An Essential and Tamper-Proof Secret Image Sharing Scheme  
 
Abstract 
This report presents an (s, t, n) secret image sharing scheme shares a secret image with two kinds of shared 
images, essential and non-essential ones, and the total number of shared images is n. Firstly, the number of 
essential images must be at least s. Secondly, the number of collected shared images, including essential and 
non-essential ones, must be at least t. An essential participant holds a conventional secret key and a shared 
essential key. A non-essential shared image is the XOR result of a correct shared image and a disturbed image 
generated from the essential key. In the recovering algorithm, the essential key is first recovered from s shared 
essential keys and the disturbed image is then acquired by the essential key. Then, the recovering algorithm 
gathers t shared images, including essential and disturbed image free non-essential shared images, to recover 
the secret image. On the other hand, during the recovery procedure of conventional secret image sharing 
scheme, cheaters may use counterfeit secret keys or modified shared images to cheat other users’ secret keys 
and shared images. A bogus secret key or shared image leads to an incorrect secret image. Therefore, this paper 
also includes an exponent and modulus-based scheme to provide a tamper-proof secret image sharing scheme 
for identifying cheaters of secret keys or shared images. Experimental results reveal that the proposed method 
distinguishes essential and non-essential shared images with cheater detection, and keeps the threshold on 
essential shared images in recovering the secret image.  
Keywords: secret image sharing, essential shared image, cheater identification 
 
1. Introduction 
Nowadays, digital images are popularly used in daily life, and making it important to protect valuable 
images during storage or transmission. The secret image sharing technique is an efficient way to protect digital 
images. This technique works by sharing one secret image with shared images (which all look like noise 
images), and then gathering enough shared images to recover the secret image.  
Thien and Lin were the first work to utilize the Shamir-Lagrange method to share and recover secret 
images [12], and then many researchers later presented other functional secret image sharing schemes, like 
reduced load in sharing multiple secret images [1], cheater identification [3], progressive [4, 6-8], weighted [9], 
visual cryptography and secret image sharing [10, 16], scalable [13, 14], and shared with hiding [15]. Excepting 
the Shamir-Lagrange method, many other methods, like Blakley [2], Boolean [5], and Chinese Remainder 
Theorem [11], are also used to share important images secretly.  
Although numerous secret image sharing methods have been presented, an efficient scheme for 
distinguishing essential and non-essential participants has not been proposed. The difference comes from the 
roles played by employers and employees. Meanwhile, in recovering the secret image, important employers 
should play more important roles than employees do. Therefore, the proposed scheme assigns two thresholds 
for essential and all participants.  
The proposed method presents an (s, t, n) essential secret image sharing scheme that needs another secret 
image sharing scheme (S.I.S.) [1-16]. The proposed scheme forms a secret image sharing scheme with multiple 
functions. The secret image is shared with n shared images. Two kinds of shared images, essential and non-
essential, are generated from the proposed scheme. In the sharing algorithm, a disturbed image generated from 
an essential key is needed. Each essential participant possesses a combined secret key, composed of a secret 
key in S.I.S. and a shared essential key. Each non-essential shared image is the XOR result of the correct shared 
image and the disturbed image, which is generated from the essential key.  In the recovering algorithm, s 
 4 
participants, essential and non-essential ones, share the secret image. The difference between these two 
participants is that each essential participant takes an extra key, and each non-essential participant takes a 
modified shared image. Assume that the numbers of essential and non-essential participants are ne and n-ne, 
respectively. Therefore, without loss of generality, participant i(1ine) is an essential participant and 
participant i(ne+1in) is a non-essential participant. The present sharing algorithm is as follows. 
1. Share the secret image to n shared images Si(1in) and their corresponding secret key ki by an S.I.S. 
scheme. 
2. For all non-essential shared images Si (ne+1in), perform the following calculation to acquire modified 
shared image 
RSS ii   
    where R is the disturbed image generated from the essential key ek.  
3. Randomly select s-1 numbers a1, …, as-1 and calculate shared essential keys se(ki) by the following 
calculation 
)(mod)( 1
2
2
1
1 pekxaxaxaxse
s
s
s
s 



   
    where p denotes a prime number that is larger than each secret key ki(1ine). 
4. For each essential participant, concatenate each shared essential key se(ki) corresponding with its secret 
key ki to form a new secret key, denoted by ki||se(ki), and assign shared image Si corresponding with the 
new secret key ki||se(ki) to participant i(1ine). 
5. For each non-essential participant, assign modified shared image  (ne+1in) corresponding with 
secret key ki to participant i(ne+1in). 
Notably, in Step 1 of the sharing algorithm, any S.I.S. scheme as a S.I.S. sharing procedure block denoted in 
Figure 2 can be used. The number of essential participants is ne and it cannot be smaller than threshold s. 
Figure 2 shows the proposed sharing algorithm, in which grey blocks represent images or shared images. 
I
S1 Sn
…
Sne
…
…
Sne+1
R
XOR XOR
secret key         k1              …   kne                                                    kne+1                                             …           kn    
shared seed        se(k1)       …          se(kne)
  kne+1                         …                kn             secret key 
shared image   
shared image
…
disturbed image
ekessential key
k1 || se(k1) kne ||se(kne)…
S.I.S. sharing procedure
…
secret image   
1

neS
nS 
 
Figure 2. The proposed sharing algorithm. 
 
(1) 
(2) 
 6 
2.3 Tamper-Proof S.I.S. Procedure 
2.3.1 The Initial Algorithm 
This section uses exponent and modulus computation to determine each participant’s secret key. Steps of 
initial algorithm are illustrated as follows. 
1. The dealer selects two prime numbers, p0 and q0, and calculates n0 = p0  q0. 
2. The dealer selects an integer g0, satisfying gcd(g0, n0)=1 and then publishes {n0, g0}. 
3. Each participant Pi chooses two prime numbers pi and qi, and then calculates their product ni, denoted by ni 
= pi  qi. Pi chooses another integer gi, satisfying gcd(gi, ni)=1, and then calculates its multiplicative inverse fi, 
satisfying gi×fi=1 mod ϕ(ni). 
4. Pi publishes {gi, ni}. 
5. Participant Pi takes pi as his or her secret key and sends ri to the dealer, where 00   mod ngr
ip
i  . 
The dealer should preserve each received ri differently, which means that each Pi possesses different secret 
key pi, to distinguish participant roles. This extra step requires participants possessing identical ri, to repeat 
steps 3-5 to obtain new secret key. Furthermore, the prime number pi is the secret key that Pi possesses, 
whereas the dealer retains ri instead of pi. 
2.3.2 The Sharing Algorithm 
When sharing the image, the dealer should first calculate new keys wi for each participant. The following list 
illustrates the steps taken during the sharing process. 
1. The dealer randomly selects an integer s0[2, n0], satisfying gcd(s0, (p0-1))=1 and gcd(s0,(q0-1))=1. 
2. The dealer computes r0 and wi, where ,  mod  000
0 ngr
s
 0  mod  
0 nrw
s
ii  . 
3. The dealer sends r0 to each participant Pi. 
4. The dealer partitions the secret image to blocks of t pixels, where Bk(k=1, 2, …, r)denotes each partitioned 
block and r is the block number. The dealer then applies to each block Bk the following steps. 
   4.1 It constructs a polynomial function 251  mod)...()( 1110


t
tk xbxbbxf , where b0, b1, …, bt-1 represent t 
pixels in one Bk block. 
   4.2 The dealer calculates )(, ikki wfy  , where wi(i = 1, 2, …, n) is obtained from step 2. 
   4.3 The dealer calculates 
i
g
kiki nyx
i   mod  ,,   for the shared image belonging to participant Pi. 
   4.4 The dealer randomly selects a prime number c and computes ncyh kiki mod,,  , where n is the number 
of participants and mod(c, n)=1.  
   4.5 The dealer randomly selects a prime number a and computes i
n
i
kik ahT 


1
,
, with na 
.
 
5. The dealer sends shared image Xi, which is formed from xi,k(k=1,2,…,r), to participants Pi and publishes 
{Tk}. 
2.3.3 Recovering with verification algorithm 
This section presents the verification algorithm that accompanies the image recovery process. First, the 
dealer verifies the authenticity of each participant’s possessing key pi and shared image Xi. Then, the dealer 
uses these keys and shared images to reconstruct the secret image. The following is an algorithm for recovering 
with verification. 
1. The dealer acquires the participant’s shared image Xi to calculate the original shared message yi,j by 
i
f
jiji nxy
i mod,,  , where xi,j is the j-th number in Xi. 
 8 
    
         (g)                                  (h)                                                        (i) 
Figure 4. (a) secret image, (b)(c) two essential shared images, (d)(f) three non-essential shared images, 
(g) the disturbed image R, (h) reconstructed image from (c)(f), (i) reconstructed image from (b)(e). 
The experimental results above show that the proposed (s, t, n) essential secret image sharing scheme 
efficiently ensures that s essential shared images and t shared images are needed to recover the secret image. 
These two criteria can be more clearly defined as follows. Firstly, s essential shared keys are needed to acquire 
the essential key ek for generating the disturbed image R. Secondly, the total number of essential and non-
essential shared images must be t. The first criterion ensures that enough essential participant join the 
recovering procedure, meaning that important persons like employers are needed in the recovering procedure. 
The second criterion ensures that there are enough members in an organization to recover the secret image. This 
property prevents few members from acquiring the secret image for the system security.  
At last, the proposed scheme adopts another secret image sharing scheme. Therefore, properties in the 
selected secret image sharing scheme are involved in the proposed scheme. For example, our experiment adopts 
literature [3] to acquire a secret image sharing scheme with cheater identification and essential properties. 
Therefore, the proposed scheme can adopt any secret image sharing scheme to enrich its properties. 
3.2 Characteristics Comparison 
This section compares characteristics between the proposed scheme and other important secret image 
sharing methods. The compared characteristics, as shown in Table 1, are explained as follows. 
(1) Sharing method: The main techniques used in sharing and recovering algorithms are noted as sharing 
methods. Sharing by the Shamir method and recovering by Lagrange interpolation are the most popular 
schemes [1, 3, 4, 9, 10, 12, 14, 15]. However, some other techniques, like Blakley geometry [2], Boolean 
operation [5], Chinese Remainder Theorem [11], can also be applied to share a secret image. 
(2) Features of scheme: Significant features between secret image sharing schemes are compared in this 
section. These properties include secret image sharing [2, 11, 12], multi-secret images sharing [1, 5], 
progressive [4], visual cryptography and secret image sharing [10], scalable [14], size constraint [15], and 
are compared in Table 1.  
Table 1. Characteristics comparison between the proposed scheme and important literatures. 
Features 
 
Schemes 
sharing method feature of scheme 
Chen and Chien [1] Shamir-Lagrange  Multi-secret images sharing 
Chen and Fu [2] Blakley geometry Secret image sharing 
Chen and Suen [3] Shamir-Lagrange  Cheater Identification 
Chen and Lin [4] Shamir-Lagrange  Progressive reconstruction 
Chen and Wu [5] Boolean operation Multi-secret images sharing 
 10 
[8] Hung, K.H., Chang, Y.J., Lin, J.C., 2008. Progressive sharing of an image, Optical Engineering 47(4), 
047006. 
 
[9] Lin, S.J., Chen, L.S., Lin, J. C., 2009. Fast-weighted secret image sharing, Opt. Eng. 48(7), 077008. 
 
[10] Lin, S.J., Lin, J.C., 2007. VCPSS: A two-in-one two-decoding-options image sharing method combining 
visual cryptography (VC) and polynomial-style sharing (PSS) approaches, Pattern Recognition 40(12), 
36523666. 
 
[11] Shyu, S.J., Chen, Y.R., 2008. Threshold Secret Image Sharing by Chinese Remainder Theorem, IEEE 
Asia-Pacific Services Computing Conference, 13321337.  
 
[12] Thien, C.C., Lin, J.C., 2002. Secret image sharing, Computers & Graphics 26(5), 765770. 
 
[13] Thien, C.C., Lin, J.C., 2003. An image-sharing method with user-friendly shadow images, IEEE 
Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology 13(12), 11611169. 
 
[14] Wang, R.Z., Chien, Y.F., Lin, Y.Y., 2010. Scalable user-friendly image sharing, Journal of Visual 
Communication and Image Representation 21(7), 751761. 
 
[15] Wu, Y.S. Thien, C.C., Lin, J.C., 2004. Sharing and hiding secret images with size constraint, Pattern 
Recognition 37(7), 13771385. 
 
[16] Yang, C.N., Ciou, C.B., 2010. Image secret sharing method with two-decoding-options: Lossless recovery 
and previewing capability, Image and Vision Computing 28(12), 16001610. 
 
 
 
 
  
圖一、本人於會場上的照片 
  
圖二、本人發表時的照片 
  
圖三、研討會相關資料 
A Secure Secret Image Sharing Scheme with Cheater Identification 
Chien-Chang Chen and Chong-An Liu
 
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering 
Tamkang University, Taipei, Taiwan 
Abstract 
In recovering procedure of image secret sharing scheme, cheaters can use fake secret keys and shared 
images to cheat other participants’ secret keys and shared images. In general, the cheater cannot be 
identified. Therefore, in secret image sharing scheme, an efficient method to recognize cheaters is very 
important. This paper presents an exponent and modulus based scheme to provide a secure secret image 
sharing scheme for distinguishing cheaters in secret key or shared image. Modulus result of each shared 
image is calculated and restored to recognize cheated shared image. Experimental results show that the 
proposed scheme provides excellent property on identifying cheated secret keys and shared images. 
 
Keywords： Secret image sharing, Cheater identification, secure sharing 
 
 
detecting cheaters. The proposed scheme does not need a one-way hash function. 
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews important secret image sharing 
schemes on detecting cheaters. The proposed secure secret image sharing scheme is introduced in 
Section 3. Algorithms of initial procedure, sharing a secret image to shared images, and recovering with 
verification from secret key and shared images are presented in sections 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3, respectively. 
Section 4 presents experimental results and comparisons between the proposed scheme and other 
methods. Conclusions are drawn in Section 5, along with future research. 
2. Review of Important Literatures 
Two important schemes, Chen and Suen [3] and Zhao et. al. [11] for detecting cheaters in secret 
image sharing scheme, are reviewed in Sections 2.1 and 2.2, respectively.  
2.1 Review of Chen and Suen’s Secret Sharing Scheme 
Chen and Suen [3] adopted Wu and Wu’s [9] secret sharing scheme, which is based on a one-way 
hash function h, a selected prime number P and a calculated large number T, to identify cheaters in 
secret sharing scheme. Chen and Suen’s scheme includes sharing and recovering procedures. 
In sharing procedure, the secret image is shared to n shared images y1, y2,…, yn using the Shamir 
secret sharing method. Then, T is calculated by 




 
1
1
12
1
)1(2)(
n
i
i
n
i
i
i cppyhT  and then T is publicly 
announced, where pc 1  and h() is a hash function.  
In recovering procedure, each collected shared image 
*
jy is first checked by 



tj SU
j
jj pyhT
)1(2** )(
and equation 
*
2( 1)
(mod ) 0
j
j
T T
p
p 
 
 
  
 is utilized to determine whether or 
image cheating. Therefore, this paper presents a secure secret image sharing scheme both check the 
correctness of secret key and shared image. 
3. Proposed scheme 
This section introduces the proposed (t, n) secure secret image sharing scheme. Assume that Pi 
(i=1,2,…,n) denotes each participant. The proposed scheme first lets each participant determine his 
secret key as introduced in Section 3.1. Section 3.2 describes the sharing procedure and Section 3.3 
presents the recovering with verification procedure. 
3.1 Initial algorithm 
This section utilizes exponent computation to determine each participant’s secret key. Steps of 
initial algorithm are illustrated as follows. 
1. The dealer selects two prime numbers p0, q0, and calculate n0 = p0  q0. 
2. The dealer then selects an integer g0, satisfying 1),gcd( 00 ng  and publicly announces {n0, g0}. 
3. Each participant Pi chooses two prime numbers pi, qi, and then calculate their product ni, denoted 
by ni = pi  qi. Pi chooses another integer gi, satisfying 1),gcd( ii ng , and then calculate its 
multiplicative inverse fi satisfying )(  mod  1 iii nfg  . 
4. Pi announces {gi, ni} publicly. 
5. Participant Pi takes pi as his secret key and sends ri to the dealer, where 00   mod ngr
ip
i  . 
The dealer should preserve each received ri different, so as each Pi having different secret key pi, to 
distinguish between participants. This also means that when the dealer finds two or more participants 
sending the same ri, these participants should perform steps 3 through 5 again. Furthermore, prime 
5. The dealer sends shared image Xi, which is formed from xi,j(k=1,2,…,r), to participants Pi and 
publicly announces {a}. 
3.3 Recovering with verification algorithm 
This section first verifies the correctness of each participant’s possessing key pi and shared image 
Xi. Then, the dealer utilizes these correct key and shared images to reconstruct the secret image. 
Algorithm of the recovering with verification is described as follows. 
1. The dealer acquires participant’s shared image Xi to calculate the original shared message yi,j by 
i
f
jiji nxy
i mod,,  , where xi,j is j-th number in Xi. 
2. The dealer utilizes Pi’s key pi and yi,j to verify Pi’s correctness by calculating whether wi is equal 
to iw ( 00 mod nrw
ip
i  ) and whether jih , ( ncyh jiji mod,,  ) is equal to kih , ( a
a
T
h
iki
 mod, 





 ). 
3. When all participants are verified, the following Lagrange interpolation are applied to correct 
keys and shared messages (wi, yi,j) by  
251mod)(251mod)( 1110
11
,






  tt
t
j ji
ji
t
i
jik xbxbb
II
Iw
yxf   
where coefficients b0, b1, …, bt-1 represent pixels of secret image. 
Note that step 3 is performed when all collected keys pi and shared images Xi are verified to be 
correct. Correctness of the key verification relies on the exponent computation. Proof of the key 
verification is 
i
s
i
sppsp
i wrggrw
iii  000 )()( 000
. 
 Table 1 Parameters utilized in our experiments 
procedure parameters values public parameters values 
initial 
algorithm 
(p0, q0) (3,5)   
g0 2   
(p1, q1, r1) (11, 13, 8) (g1, n1) (4, 143) 
(p2, q2, r2) (17, 19, 2) (g2, n2) (6, 323) 
(p3, q3, r3) (23, 29, 8) (g3, n3) (8, 667) 
(p4, q4, r4) (31, 37, 8) (g4, n4) (10,1147) 
(p5, q5, r5) (41, 43, 2) (g5, n5) (12, 1763) 
sharing 
algorithm 
s0 7   
r0 8   
w1 2   
w2 8   
w3 2   
w4 2   
w5 8   
a 47   
 
4.2 Discussion 
This section presents comparison results between the proposed scheme and other important 
schemes [2, 3-5, 7, 8, 10, 11].  
Table 2 compares characteristics between these schemes. Significant features excepting secret 
image sharing are compared in this section. These properties include multi-secret images sharing [2], 
shared image verification [3], progressive [4], visual cryptography and secret image sharing [5], perfect 
secret image sharing [7], scalable [8], size constraint [10], secret key verification [11], and secret key 
and shared image verification (the proposed scheme) are compared in Table 2.  
Table 2. Characteristics comparison between the proposed scheme and important literatures. 
Features 
 
Schemes 
features of scheme 
Ref.[2] Multi-secret images sharing 
5. Conclusions 
This paper presents a secret image sharing scheme with the properties of detecting cheaters both in 
secret key and shared image. The proposed scheme presents three algorithms, named initial, sharing, and 
recovering with verification algorithms. The selection of secret key is different with other secret image 
sharing scheme. The proposed scheme let each participant selecting his secret key and the dealer check the 
validation of each participant’s selection. The verification in recovering is also based on the participant’s 
selection secret key. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method exhibits the security 
property well. Future work will focus on combining with other property like multiple sharing to from a 
more practical secret image sharing scheme. 
6. References 
[1] C.C. Chang and R.J. Hwang, “Efficient cheater identification method for threshold schemes”, IEE 
peoc. E. Comput. Digit. Tech. 144 (1), pp.23–27, 1997. 
 
[2] C. C. Chen and Y. W. Chien, “Sharing Numerous Images Secretly with Reduced Possessing Load,” 
Fundamenta Informatiace 86, 447458, 2008. 
 
[3] C. C. Chen and G. Y. Suen, “Sharing An Image with Cheater Identification”, International Journal of 
Innovative Computing, Information and Control 6(2), 677-685, 2010. 
 
[4] C. P. Huang, C. H. Hsieh, P. S. Huang, “Progressive sharing for a secret image”, Journal of Systems 
and Software 83, 517-527, 2010. 
 
[5] S. J. Lin and J. C. Lin, “VCPSS: A two-in-one two-decoding-options image sharing method 
combining visual cryptography (VC) and polynomial-style sharing (PSS) approaches,” Pattern 
Recognition 40, 36523666, 2007. 
 
[6] K.J. Tan, H.W. Zhu, S.J. Gu, “Cheater identification in (t,n) threshold scheme”, Computer 
Communications 22, pp.762–765, 1999. 
 
[7] C. C. Thien and J. C. Lin, “Secret image sharing,” Computers & Graphics, 765770, 2002. 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/09/30
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 一個兼具欺騙偵測與關鍵分享之影像秘密分享技術研究
計畫主持人: 陳建彰
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-032-056- 學門領域: 影像處理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
