802.11a Wireless LAN applications are also demonstrated
in this work.
二、計畫的緣由與目的
Nowadays, numerous wireless-communication
circuit applications, especially for low-noise amplifiers
(LNAs), often require transistors with low noise. In
addition to providing the gain, LNA should minimize
signal distribution, present a specific impedance (e.g., 50
Ω) to the input source, and consume as small power as
possible. SiGe HBT technology has been a chief contender
among the Si-based technology due to its advantages over
CMOS technology such as higher fT, lower noise, and
better power performance. The performance of SiGe HBTs
is depended on many factors including the Ge profile, the
doping concentration, and the geometrical structure. More
attention should be paid to the noise figure (NF) and the
associated available gain (GA,assoc) if HBTs are employed
in the LNA, and therefore the geometry and bias need to be
optimized for the LNA design. Geometrical scaling issues
including emitter length and emitter stripe-number scaling
are investigated from an RF design perspective. Since
substrate losses are considerably higher in Si, the attention
should be focused on optimizing the sizes of transistors in
order to simplify the matching circuit, rather than
designing new matching circuit to match a given transistor.
Therefore, the real part of the optimum source impedance
(Re(Zopt)) of a transistor close to 50 Ω is selected for
designing a Si-base LNA. In this way, the loss and even the
chip area can be reduced. For devices with the fixed
vertical doping concentration and Ge profile, the noise
performance of SiGe HBTs is investigated and the optimal
device geometry is determined to render a better noise
performance. The details of the device performance, and
the effects of layout configuration and dimensions are
discussed. In addition, a method is proposed to optimize
the emitter geometry in order to minimize the matching
circuit losses and noise figure.
The wireless communication market, such as
wireless LAN (WLAN), has experienced a substantial and
rapid growth. Due to SiGe HBTs feature comparable RF
performance to that of III–V HBTs and low fabrication
cost, SiGe HBTs are emerging as a contender for RF
power amplifier (PA) applications. Since the PA is the
most essential component in the RF transceiver, and the
power cell determines the performance of the PA, hence,
it’s very important to design a power cell with high
power-added efficiency (PAE), power gain (GP), and
linearity. Therefore, considering temperature effects and
the desired high power level, it’s required to carefully
design the layout of a power cell to maintain adequate gain
and PAE. Due to the PA needs greater output power (Pout),
the power cell of the PA is composed of an array of
multifinger subcells (i.e. several unit-devices in parallel).
For the ideal case, subcells are combined perfectly, the Pout
of the power cell is proportional to numbers of subcells,
and the GP of the power cell keeps the same as that of a
subcell. In fact, this ideal case can not be realized due to
non-ideal effects including thermal effects associated with
the thermal coupling between subcells/ stripes, the
common inductance associated with the emitter lead, and
inter-subcell phasing effects associated with the base-feed.
There are some basic and familiar styles of power cells
shown in literatures. However, these styles of power cells
are still suffered from non-ideal effects. Hence, the
objective in this work is to design an optimized and novel
power cell with better performance than these styles of
power cells. Moreover, this proposed power cell is
designed to be suitable for circuit-level combination in
PAs for WLAN IEEE 802.11a applications.
The demand for wireless data transmission is
increasing rapidly. While the 2.4 GHz band is already
crowded, systems in the 5 GHz ISM band are increasing.
As new WLAN (Wireless LAN) standards emerge, such as
IEEE 802.11a, additional demands are placed on the
transceiver. For IEEE 802.11a, due to the use of a
The RF mixer is the dominant contributor to flicker
noise. Even though the flicker noise of an active RF mixer
can be mitigated by decreasing the LO frequency and
increasing the LO power, there is usually no freedom to do
so. Our solution involves adopting a passive mixer to
remove flicker noise during the frequency transfer.
Typical VCO makes it difficult to optimize the
performance parameters such as tuning range, power
consumption, and phase accuracy. The main trade-off in
designing typical VCO is that increasing the size of
coupling transistors decreases the effect of parasitic
mismatches due to process variations, but it also increases
the parasitic capacitance which decreases the tuning range
and increases the total power consumption, since their
effective would load the tank significantly, reducing the
oscillation amplitude and thus worsening the phase noise.
In this work, a fully symmetrical integrated LC VCO with
low phase noise and low power using symmetrical cascode
connection is presented.
三、研究方法及成果
The objects of this project are to develop the
technologies of RF front-end circuits, and integrating RF
system on a chip by the SiGe BiCMOS technology for the
5 GHz wireless LAN application. For various applications
of RF circuits, optimized geometrical scaling of active
devices for low noise or high power application will be
obtained. Besides, the high power cell and low noise cell
will be developed. Moreover, for the 5 GHz WLAN
application, the power amplifier, voltage-controlled
oscillator, mixer and low noise amplifier will be made and
measured.
The research in the first year is to accomplish the
optimum noise cell and the optimum power cell for the
LNA and PA applications, respectively. The device
dimension dependence of the performance indicates that
there exists an optimum emitter length for the best RF
noise performance. The details of device performances,
and the effects of layout configuration and dimensions are
investigated via derived equations. The suitable layout
configuration and geometry of the device with better noise
performance are determined and optimized in this work.
The geometrical scaling including emitter length scaling
and stripe number scaling can be adopted to optimize the
emitter geometry in order to minimize losses of the
matching network and overall noise figure. This method
for designing LNA guarantees optimum noise and input
impedance matching simultaneously with the simplest
matching network. In addition, the optimum layout of high
power cell for the application of the power amplifier is also
obtained. A subcell with optimum emitter stripe width is
designed. To choose the optimized power cell in respect of
Pout, PAE and linearity, several power cells with the same
numbers of subcells but different geometry are compared
with each other. With the proposed way, the connection
configuration of this power cell type is optimized for better
performance. The full characterisation of SiGe HBTs
power cells at 5.2 GHz in terms of DC characteristics, Pout,
PAE and linearity are demonstrated. The experimental
results clearly shown that the novel power cell type III with
better performance can be employed in PAs for 802.11a
WLAN applications.
The research in the second year is to accomplish the
LNA and the PA for the WLAN IEEE 802.11a application.
A on-chip linearizer composed of the base–emitter diode
of an active bias transistor and a linearizing coupling
reverse-biased diode has been described. The two-stage
SiGe HBT MMIC power amplifier for the IEEE 8.2.11a
exhibits an output power of 24 dBm, PAE of 31% under
3V operation voltage, and the linearizer was very effective
in improving the 1-dB gain compression point. Hence, the
linearized power amplifier showed a better linear / gain
compression characteristics than those of the
non-linearized amplifier. In addition, the linearizer requires
no additional dc current consumption, has little insertion
loss, and requires almost no die area. Furthermore, a low
