 1 
 
具有高速連續轉換功能時距數位化系統晶片整合之研究 
Research on the Integration of High-Speed Continuous Time Interval Digitizing System Chip 
計畫編號：NSC 95－2221－E－224－103－ 
執行期間：95 年 8 月 1 日 至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主  持  人：黃崇禧 國立雲林科技大學電機工程系暨研究所 助理教授 
共同主持人：曹恆偉 國立臺灣大學電子工程學研究所 教授  
計畫參與人員：宋之維 陳科含 李家豪 
一、 中文摘要 
時序數位化電路可以廣泛應用於與時間
相關的量測，如粒子物理、量測儀器、晶片內
部時間抖動測試…等。本計劃即旨延續去年計
畫成果，設計一積體化之連續時距數位化系統
電路，並提高時間解析度。主要目標在於量測
單擊方波信號中的上升緣與下降緣的時距，藉
由快速轉換，藉以達成連續方波信號時脈參數
量測功能。並使用電路積體化技術，將系統電
路有效縮小至單一晶片中。 
在本計劃中，針對即時時間量測的問題進
行研究，藉以進行系統功能分析、內部架構規
劃與各部分子電路設計模擬。主要係利用延遲
鎖定迴路提供穩定的多相位時序，進行時間取
樣數位化，整合設計出連續時距數位化系統電
路，以連續量測信號的上升與下降邊緣時距。
經由實作驗證，可針對等效輸入信號 250 百萬
赫茲以上的數位訊號進行連續轉換。在參考頻
率為 200 百萬赫茲時，解析度可達 78 微微秒。
並同時提出一新型時脈倍頻器，輸出頻率範圍
可達 640 百萬赫茲至 1.8 十億赫茲。另亦經由
模擬驗證，在 400 百萬赫茲時脈輸入下，使用
四倍相位內插方式，有效的將時間解析度再予
以提升至 19 微微秒。 
關鍵詞：時距數位化電路、延遲鎖定迴路、連
續時距數位化系統 
英文摘要 
The time digitizer is the key component in 
time measurement applications.  For example, it 
can be applied widely in particle physics, test 
equipments, on-chip jitter measurement…etc.  
This project is aimed to continue the research 
efforts derived from the previous project to 
design the integrated “continuous time interval 
digitization system chip”, which can measure the 
time interval between the rising and falling 
edges of the single-shot signal.  Its resolution 
can be precise to be less than one nanosecond.  
By fast conversion, it will be suitable to perform 
the functions of instantaneous time 
measurements of a continuous square waveform.  
With the aid of circuit integration technology, 
the measurement system can be scaled down into 
a single chip.  
This project is dedicated on the research of 
designing the “continuous time interval 
digitization system”.  It will take the advantage 
of the Delay-Locked Loop (DLL), which can 
provide stable multi-phase clocks to perform 
time digitization.  We focus on the analysis of 
the required system functions.  Then the 
internal architecture is investigated with the 
detailed circuit design and simulation.  The 
core circuit, time digitizer, has already been 
fabricated and tested. The equivalent input signal 
can be up to 250MHz. The resolution is 78ps 
when the reference clock is running at 200MHz. 
We also introduce an novel clock multiplier with 
output frequency range within 640MHz to 
1.8GHz.  Utilizing the same architecture, we 
also improve the time resolution up to 19ps 
running at reference input of 400MHz via 
quadruple phase interpolation with the validation 
of simulation results. 
Keywords : time digitizer, delay-locked  loop 
(DLL), continuous time interval 
digitization system 
 3 
 
(1) 二級多相位產生器(Two-Level Multiphase 
Generator) 
其架構如圖五所示，兩組延遲鎖定迴路
(Delay-Locked Loop, DLL)主要用以產生穩
定的兩級多相位時脈。其中第一級 DLL 頻
率輸入使用參考時脈，主要提供 M(=2m)級
多相位時序供取樣，其解析度為“TCOARSE= 
TREF/2m”。並同時利用邊緣合成器 (Edge 
Combiner)產生倍頻時脈(CLKMUL)[8]，其頻
率為“fMUL=2m*fREF”，做為第二級延遲鎖定
迴路的時脈輸入，藉以則提供更精細的
N(=2n) 級 時 序 ， 其 解 析 度 則 為 “TFINE 
=TCOARSE/2n=TREF/2m+n”，以進行時間取樣。 
(2) 時間取樣器(Time Sampler) 
共計有計數器、粗級(Coarse)即第一級多相
位與細級(Fine)即第二級多相位等三部份
資料必須進行時間取樣。後兩者的電路架
構如圖六所示，主要係由正反器陣列組成
[7]。時間編碼器(2m(n)-to-m(n) Encoder)主要
偵測資料由 0 轉態至 1 的資訊，即為輸入
訊號邊緣產生之時。數位偵錯器(Digital 
Error Checker)係供檢查取樣資料是否有錯
誤情況。而計數器的時間取樣器則毋需使
用編碼器與偵錯器。 
(3) 取樣控制器(Sampling Controllor)： 
主要對輸入的信號(CLKIN)進行偵測，當有
邊緣轉態時，產生新的取樣時脈(CLKSP)，
並產生觸發(Strobe)供後級資料處理電路
進行時距的計算。同時亦產生訊息(Info)信
號，以供辨別該筆資料為上升緣或下降緣。 
II. 連續多相位時距數位化系統電路 
延續去年度計畫的成果，完成了圖四的系
統晶片送製與量測。部分重要電路簡介如下： 
(1) 延遲鎖定迴路 
如圖七所示，主要由壓控延遲線(Voltage- 
Controlled Delay Line)、相位偵測器(Phase 
Detector)、電荷泵(Charge Pump)與迴路濾
波器(Loop Filter)組成。其中為了節省第一
級延遲單元的個數，第一級的迴路鎖在參
考頻率半週期，藉以產生 2*M 個有效的多
相位時脈，以供邊緣合成器倍頻使用。 
(2) 邊緣合成器電路 
如圖八所示，主要原理為使用一組 RS-拴
鎖(Latch)，在加上多組短脈波產生器(Short 
Pulse Generator, SPG)，使用 Wire-OR 方式
連接於設定(Set)與重置(Reset)端，藉以產
生倍頻時脈輸出。 
(3) 延遲單元 
為使壓控延遲線可以毋需經過準位轉換的
數位輸出時脈，應採用輸出振幅為地到供
應電壓型式的延遲單元，並採用差動對型
式，如圖九所示。其中的 M1, M2 為輸入差
動對；M3, M4 使用交叉耦合型式則保證輸
出為差動； M5, M6 則可以增大延遲範圍； 
最後利用 Vctrl進行調變 M7, M8 的轉導，以
達成控制延遲。 
該晶片電路採用 TSMC 0.18µm 製程進行
設計，經國家晶片系統設計中心(CIC)協助送
製，晶片照相圖如圖十所示，第一級與第二級
均為 8 階(M=N=8)的延遲線，可內插 64 級。
在參考頻率 200MHz 時，解析度可達 78ps。圖
十一為線性度量測結果：DNL -0.62 ~ +0.51 與 
INL -0.99 ~ +0.98。圖十二為八倍頻的時脈輸
出，即 1.6GHz 的波形與時間抖動量測圖。量
測結果總結於表一。 
III. 內插式多相位時距數位化系統電路 
經過前一顆晶片的實作驗證，證明了所提
出的系統架構可行性。我們將原有的系統架構
進行改良，以提高解析度，但仍保有原本的架
構的高速轉換特性。部分重要規格與電路簡介
如下： 
(1) 多相位產生器 
為提高解析度，在原有的第二級延遲鎖定
迴路所產生的多相位中再進行四級的內
插。但為減少輸出腳位，將系統參考時脈
再提高兩倍，邊緣產生器的的倍頻改為四
倍，以減少功率消耗。 
(2) 電阻性相位內插器 
在兩組細級相位輸出之間，加入電阻進行
相位內插，如圖十三所示。考慮 TSMC 製
程的電阻的變異性後(約±10%)，經過模擬
選擇合適的電阻值，即使在±20%的變異範
圍內，仍可保有極準確的相位輸出。 
(3) 延遲單元 
為使用更快的參考時脈，延遲單元改採用
圖十四的餓流反向器 (Starving-Current 
Inverter)組成的虛擬差動延遲單元(Pseudo- 
Differential Delay Cell) (如圖十五)，內有一
 5 
 
 
圖一 取樣時序操作 
 
圖二 傳統多相位取樣 
CLKREF
Multiphase 
Clocks (2nd)
CLKSP
Multiphase 
Clocks (1st)
 
圖三 新型二級多相位取樣 
 
圖四 時距數位化系統電路架構 
 
圖五 二級多相位產生器 
 
圖六 時間取樣器 
Phase
Detector
Charge 
Pump
Voltage Control Delay Line
VCTRL
PHE[ ]
CLKREF/MUL
CLKFB
PHO[ ]
 
圖七 延遲鎖定迴路 
 
圖八 邊緣合成器 
 
圖九 差動延遲單元 
DLL 1
DLL 2
Counter
Edge
Combiner
Coarse 
Sampler
Fine 
Sampler
Loop Filter 1
Loop Filter 2
 
圖十 晶片照相圖 
 
圖十一 非線性度量測圖(晶片一) 
 7 
 
表一 量測結果(晶片一) 
    Item Specification 
Technology TSMC 0.18 µm 1P6M 
Supply voltage 1.8 V 
Reference clock 80 ~ 225 MHz 
Multiplied clock 0.64 ~ 1.8 GHz 
Input clock 7 ~ 250 MHz 
Interpolation bin 64 
Resolution  78 ps * 
Dynamic range 160 ns * 
Conversion time 2 ns 
INL (LSB) -0.99 ~ 0.98 * 
DNL (LSB) -0.62 ~ 0.51 * 
Chip area 1089 µm x 990 µm 
Power consumption 169.48 mW * 
Note : (*) represents that reference clock rate is 200 MHz.  
 
表二 模擬結果(晶片二) 
    Item Specification 
Technology TSMC 0.18 µm 1P6M 
Supply voltage 1.8 V 
Reference clock 150 ~ 450 MHz 
Multiplied clock 0.6 ~ 1.8 GHz 
Input clock 25 ~ 300 MHz 
Interpolation bin 128 
Resolution  18 ps * 
Dynamic range 40 ns * 
Conversion time 2.5 ns 
INL (LSB) -1.19 ~ 1.45 * 
DNL (LSB) -0.69 ~ 0.79 * 
Chip area 1097 µm x 1174 µm 
Power consumption 78.59 mW * 
Note : (*) represents that reference clock rate is 400 MHz.  
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-224-103- 
計畫名稱 具有高速連續轉換功能時距數位化系統晶片整合之研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
黃崇禧 
國立雲林科技大學電機工程系暨研究所 助理教授 
會議時間地點 日本九州 2007/7/11 ~ 2007/7/13 
會議名稱 2007 International Conference on Communications, Circuits And Systems (ICCCAS’07) 
發表論文題目 High-Speed Continuous Time Digitizer Using a Two-Level Multiphase Sampling Technique 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
此次參與之會議為“通訊電路與系統國際會議” (ICCCAS’07)，舉辦地點在日本九州
市的國際會議中心，主辦單位為中國、日本與香港等幾個主要的工業或科技大學聯合主
辦，並由美國電子電機學會(Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, IEEE)贊助協
辦。會議舉辦時間自七月十一日至十三號，為期三天。在會議的前一天，即由桃園機場
搭乘華航班機直飛抵達日本福岡市後，再搭車前往九州市。議程第一天(7/11)上午大會邀
請兩位來自中國與日本的學者發表演說,他們分別是Weigan Lin與 Koichi Asatani兩位教
授，演講題目為“Cassinian Waveguides”與“Next Generation Networks - Solutions or 
Challenges? ”，內容與電磁電路與網路通訊有關。下午主要是六個 Best Paper Competition 
Session的論文競賽，主要涵蓋了通訊、資訊、電力電子、電路…等領域，共計二十三篇。 
第二天(7/12)開始則為 Regular Paper Session，共計有四十八篇論文發表。共計去參
與“Qos, Performance Analysis and Ad-Hoc Network”、 “MC-CDMA and SCDMA Systems”、 
“Circuit EDA Issues”、“Nonlinear Device & Circuits”等與電路設計有相關的 Session，並與
報告者進行意見交流。另在會場休息時間亦遇到台大電機系王勝德教授，他在同時間主
持了“Security in Computer Networks” Session。 
第三天(7/13)亦為 Regular Paper Session，共計有五十篇論文發表。本人受邀擔任上
午“Circuit Synthesis & Design”、“RF Component, Wireless Network and Systems”等兩個
High-Speed Continuous Time Digitizer Using a  
Two-Level Multiphase Sampling Technique 
Chorng-Sii Hwang 
Department of Electrical Engineering 
National Yunlin University of Science and Technology 
Yunlin County, 640 Taiwan, R.O.C. 
cshwang@yuntech.edu.tw 
 
Chih-Wei Sung, Hen-Wai Tsao 
Graduate Institute of Electronics Engineering 
National Taiwan University 
Taipei, 106 Taiwan R.O.C. 
tsaohw@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract—In this paper, the new architecture of a high-speed 
continuous time digitizer has been proposed. With the aid of a 
two-level multiphase sampling technique, the time digitizer can 
use only 16 delay cells and DFFs to perform the flash-type 
conversion of 64-stage interpolation. The time digitizer can 
obtain 78 ps resolution with a reference frequency running at 
200 MHz. The continuous input clock frequency can be up to 
250 MHz. The layout area occupies 1.08 mm2. A novel clock 
multiplier is also introduced to provide multiphase generation 
with frequency output range within 640 MHz ~ 1.8 GHz.   
I. INTRODUCTION 
Time interval digitization has been widely applied in 
industry and scientific research such as frequency 
measurement, nuclear particle life time detection[1-2], laser 
range finder[3], frequency synthesis, motor rotation speed 
detection, on-chip jitter measurement[4]… etc. Due to the 
rapid progress of IC technology, the time digitizer or time-to-
digital converter (TDC) has been designed and integrated as 
a functional core circuitry into system chips while possessing 
the merit of low cost and high resolution.  
Most of the time digitizers can be classified into two 
types according to the input signals. The first type of time 
digitizers is dedicated to measure the “single-shot” signal. 
Usually, the time interval between rising and falling edges of 
the input signal is converted to digital values via several 
methods, e.g. dual-slope, time-to-voltage, cyclic pulse-
shrinking[5]…etc. However, it often takes a long time to 
complete the converting process to achieve high resolution. 
The second type of time digitizers accepts “START” and 
“STOP” signals and measures the time difference between 
their rising edges. In order to obtain wider dynamic range, it 
often utilizes the counter running with the reference clock[3]. 
Then the time digitizer is to measure the “START” and 
“STOP” signals versus the succeeding edges of the reference 
clock. Some methods like multiphase clock[1], vernier delay 
line[6-7]…etc. are feasible to obtain the fine time 
relationship. From the previous reported work, most of the 
time digitizers take a long conversion time (or called “dead 
time”) to acquire sub-nanosecond resolution such that the 
sampling rate is considerably lowered. For this reason, they 
will be unsuitable for performing the time measurement of 
the continuous signal. 
Among these methods, the multiphase clock method 
using delay-lock loop (DLL) possesses the merit of the 
lowest conversion time. Due to the simple structure of DLL, 
multiphase clocks with equal-spaced timing information can 
be generated precisely. However, the long delay chain will 
affect integral nonlinearity (INL) and enlarge the complexity 
of data encoding circuitry.  
The aim of this work is focused on the time digitization 
of the high-speed continuous signal so as to obtain its timing 
information like period, frequency, duty cycle and jitter. The 
architecture of the proposed time digitizer can minimize the 
size of the delay chain while achieving high resolution. It 
utilizes a two-level multiphase sampling technique with a 
built-in clock multiplier. In next section, the principle of 
two-level multiphase sampling is introduced. In Sec. III, the 
architecture of the time digitizer is described in detail. Then 
the design of the critical circuitry is illustrated in Sec. IV. 
The layout and simulated results are shown in Sec. V. In the 
final section, we conclude this work.  
II. PRINCIPLE OF TWO-LEVEL MULTIPHASE SAMPLING 
The key operation of digitizing a continuous signal 
waveform is illustrated in Fig. 1. For either a periodic or 
aperiodic signal, the time intervals for sustaining high (∆tH,i) 
and low (∆tL,i) must be measured. Whenever the edge 
transitions (both low-to-high and high-to-low) of input clock 
(CLKIN) occur, the timing information should be acquired. 
CLKREF
CLKIN
tH,i tL,i tH,i+1
CLKSP
 
Figure 1.  Time digitization of the continuous signal  
This work is sponsored by National Science Council under grant for 
NSC 95-2221-E-224 -103.  
generator. Whenever a rising or falling edge of CLKIN occurs, 
the corresponding sampling clock (CLKSP) is generated to 
trigger the three sets of time samplers so as to latch the 
timing information. The STROBE signal is dedicated to 
notify the digital processing unit that the timing data is ready 
for manipulation. Therefore, it is designed as a delayed 
replica of CLKSP in the actual circuit implementation that is 
produced after the sampling process accomplishes. The 
INFO signal indicates the data represents rising or falling. 
B. Multiphase Generator 
The two-level multiphase generator shown in Fig. 5 
consists of dual DLLs and an edge combiner. The first DLL 
produces “2*2m” clock phases while running at the speed of 
the reference clock (CLKREF). Then these clock phases can 
be further classified into odd and even sets. The even set 
(PHE[2m:1]) is sent out first to the coarse sampler. The coarse 
resolution of the first level (TCOARSE) is  
2
REF
COARSE m
TT =                                            (1) 
where TREF is the clock period of CLKREF. Then the edge 
combiner accepts both sets of clock phases and generates the 
multiplied clock (CLKMUL) which is served as the input 
clock of the second DLL. The first DLL and the edge 
combiner form the “clock multiplier” block. The frequency 
relationship between CLKMUL and CLKREF is  
2 *mMUL REFf f=  .                                        (2) 
Then the second DLL interpolates CLKMUL to generate 
multiphase clocks (PHF[2n:1]) for the fine time digitization 
with the fine resolution to be  
 
2 2 *2
COARSE REF
FINE n m n
T TT = = .                                (3) 
As described in the previous section, the coarse and fine sets 
of clock phases can provide sufficient timing information for 
time digitization over the whole reference clock cycle. They 
can greatly reduce the number of multiphase clocks required 
for a single DLL topology.  
 
Figure 5.  Multiphase generator based on dual DLLs 
C. Multiphase Sampler 
As discussed in Sec. II, the multiphase sampling process 
is analogous to the flash ADC. Both coarse and fine samplers 
utilize the same configuration as shown in Fig. 6. It is 
composed of the following blocks :  
 
Figure 6.  Multiphase sampler 
1) Sampling DFF Array : To accomplish the purpose of 
a high-conversion rate, the input signals of the sampling DFF 
array are arranged as described in Sec. II. The data delaying 
method is adopted. The multiphase clocks are generated via 
the two-level multiphase generator based on dual DLLs. 
CLKSP from the “sampling controller” block is in charge of 
triggering the sampling DFF arrays in both levels 
simultaneously. This method also possesses the virtue that 
the timing data can be kept till sending into the subsequent 
digital processing block. 
2) 2 m(n)-to-m(n) Encoder : Since the sampled data will 
be consecutive 1’s and 0’s, the actual transition information 
arises when the data sequence alters its values from 0 to 1. In 
normal operation, the transition will take place once only. In 
this manner, the design of the encoder can be greatly 
simplified. 
3) Digital Error Checker : This block is dedicated for 
checking if there exits more than one transition. Then the 
digital processing block can discard this information in case 
that the DEC signal is activated.  
D. Reference Counter and Counter Sampler 
The reference counter makes use of the synchronous and 
up-count architecture with the input reference clock 
(CLKREF). Its values are also sampled at the rising edge of 
the sampling clock (CLKSP). The counter sampler is purely a 
DFF array since there’s no need of any encoding procedure.  
IV. CIRCUIT IMPLEMENTATION  
In order to realize the proposed architecture of the 
continuous time digitizer, we have designed a test chip to be 
fabricated in TSMC 0.18 µm mixed-mode process. The 
circuit design issues for certain blocks are briefly discussed 
in the following sub-sections. 
A. Delay-Locked Loop 
The fundamental block diagram of DLL is drawn in Fig. 
7. In order to minimize the area and power, the voltage-
controlled delay line consists of 2m(n) tapped differential 
delay cells, which are described later. Since the first DLL 
must generate 2*2m phases (PHE[2m:1] and PHO[2m:1]) to 
achieve the functions of clock multiplication and multiphase 
sampling, the feedback clock (CLKFB) is selected from the 
even set of clock phases to be locked in half a period of 
CLKREF.  
