2arbitrary curved shape in generally
anisotropic solids are still in need.
For problems containing a crack tip in
linear elasticity, the mixed-mode singular
near-tip stress field can be characterized by a
pair of stress intensity factors (SIF's).
Direct evaluation of the SIF's with numerical
schemes such as finite element method
appears to be difficult due to the complicated
mechanical state around the singular point.
Alternatively, the SIF's can be determined by
using various types of path-independent
integrals, e.g., the Jk-integrals (k=1,2)
(Knowles and Sternberg [7], Budiansky and
Rice [8]), H-integral (Stern et al. [9]), and
M1-integral (Chen and Shield [10]), etc.
While these contour integrals were developed
with the appearance of different forms, most
of them are based on similar concept.
When the cracked body is subjected to
single-mode loading, the associated SIF is
usually evaluated by using the "J-integral"
(i.e. J1). In such a case, the value of
integration remains unchanged along any
selection of contour encircling the tip as long
as the crack is straight inside the contour.
The idea of path-independence of J1
eliminates the need for detailed information
of the near-tip singular behavior.
Nevertheless, when mixed-mode loading
conditions are considered, the asymptotic
singular behavior always needs to be
included (either analytically or numerically)
in calculating the SIF's with any of the
aforementioned integrals.
As to curved cracks, the conventional
concept of the above contour integrals for
straight cracks is no longer valid and needs to
be modified. A number of attempts have
therefore been proposed for calculation of the
SIF's associated with curved cracks in
isotropic solids, including boundary integral
method (Sladek and Sladek [11]), surface
integral method (Forth and Keat [12]),
path-independent integral (Lorentzon and
Eriksson [13]), and interaction energy
integral (Gosz and Moran [14]), etc. These
approaches were developed for applications
with cracks of specific curved shapes.
Further, in order to perform these integrals,
proper auxiliary solutions associated with the
prescribed material behavior and crack
geometry are usually required. Therefore,
no general formulation to problems
containing curved cracks of arbitrary shape
in anisotropic solids has been presented so
far.
In this report, a numerical procedure,
incorporated with the finite element method,
is to be developed for calculation of the
mixed-mode stress intensity factors for
curved cracks in anisotropic elastic solids.
The approach is based on the concept of the
Jk-integrals. By comparing with other types
of integrals, Jk appear to be more
straightforward in practice since no extra
auxiliary solutions are required in their
formulation. With this superiority, Jk can
thus be generally applicable for problems of
anisotropic materials and arbitrary curved
shapes. Nevertheless, the property of
path-independence no longer holds for the
case of curved cracks and modifications on
the formulation need to be applied. As a
consequence, the near-tip region, where
singular mechanical behavior dominates, is
always involved. Special attention is
therefore addressed to simulation of
integration around the near-tip region so that
accurate solution is achieved without using
any particular singular element.
三、ASYMPTOTIC STRESS FIELD AND
CONTOUR INTEGRALS
For a crack of arbitrary curved shape in
a 2-D homogeneous anisotropic elastic body,
we introduce a local coordinate system
originating at the crack tip O, with the crack
lying tangentially along the negative
x1-direction. By using a complex variable
approach, the asymptotic mixed-mode stress
field in the immediate neighborhood of the
crack tip can be expressed in terms the
associated complex variables, where (r,)
denote the polar components of the local
coordinate; KI and KII are the stress intensity
factors associated with modes I and II
respectively.
On the other hand, the Jk-integrals
associated with the crack tip are defined as
      ∂uiJk = lim∫ [Wnk–ijnj(–––––)]ds
 ∂xk
Physically, the first component of Jk (i.e.
4the analytic solutions, as anticipated.
Problem 2
Consider the plane strain specimen
containing a circular arc crack of angle 90o
and cord length 2l. The specimen is
subjected to uniform remote stresses
x=y=p. For two types of curved cracks,
the FE results of KI and KII associated with
different values of arc angle are evaluated.
六、CONCLUSIONS
Although the concept with application
of the Jk-integrals for evaluation of the
driving force in moving a singular point is
not a new idea, it is rarely used for curved
cracks due to the difficulties in modeling the
near-tip singular behavior. Neither has the
associated concept of path-independence
been properly clarified. In this paper, a
numerical procedure, based on the concept of
Jk, is developed for calculation of the
mixed-mode stress intensity factors for
curved cracks in anisotropic elastic solids.
These integrals are shown to be
path-independent in a modified sense and the
near-tip region is always included in the
calculation. The developed technique is
therefore particularly addressed on modeling
of the singular behavior. With this, no
particular singular elements are required for
the computation. However, it is important
to note that appropriate choice of the cutoff
radius R relies on detailed numerical
investigations of the asymptotic behavior.
In principle, once the Jk-integrals are
accurately evaluated, the SIF's can then be
determined. By comparing with the other
approaches, the proposed numerical scheme
appears to be more straightforward in
practice since neither a-priori information nor
extra auxiliary solutions corresponding to the
singular behavior is required. In addition, it
is not necessary to form a local FE mesh that
is symmetric with respect to the crack
surfaces. With these superiorities, the
method appears to be more applicable for
problems containing arbitrary shapes of
curvature in generally anisotropic fields.
REFERENCES
[1] Sih GC, Paris PC, Erdogan F. Crack tip, stress
intensity factors for plane extension and plate
bending problems. J Appl Mech. 1962; 29:
306-312.
[2] Dreilich L, Gross D. The curved crack.
Zeitschrift fur Angewandte Mathematik und
Mechanik 1985; 65: 132-134.
[3] Chen YZ. Singular integral equation method for
the solution of multiple curved crack problems.
Int J Solids Struct, 2004; 41: 3505-3519.
[4] Obata M, Nemat-Nasser S, Goto Y. Branched
cracks in anisotropic elastic solids. J Appl Mech
1989; 56: 858-864.
[5] Xu Y, Keer LM. Crack curving in anisotropic
solids. Engng Fracture Mech 1993; 1: 63-73.
[6] Yang S, Yuan FG. Kinked crack in anisotropic
bodies. Int J Solids Struct 2000; 37: 6635-6682.
[7] Knowles JK and Sternberg E. On a class of
conservation laws in linearized and finite
elastostatics. Arch Rat Mech Anal 1972; 44:
187-211.
[8] Budiansky B and Rice JR. Conservation laws
and energy-release rates. J Appl Mech 1973; 40:
201-203.
[9] Stern M, Becker EB, Dunham RS. A contour
integral computation of mixed-mode stress
intensity factors. Int J Fracture 1976; 12(3):
359-368.
[10] Chen FHK, Shield RT. Conservation laws in
elasticity of the J-integral type. J Appl Math Phys
(ZAMP) 1977; 28: 1-22.
[11] Sladek V, Sladek J. Three-dimensional curved
crack in an elastic body. Int J Solids Struct
1983; 19(5): 425-436.
[12] Forth SC, Keat WD. Three-dimensional
nonplanar fracture model using the surface
integral method. Int J Fracture 1996; 77:
243-262.
[13] Lorentzon M, Eriksson K. A path independent
integral for the crack extension force of the
circular arc crack. Engng Fracture Mech 2000;
66: 423-439.
[14] Gosz M, Moran B. An interaction energy
integral method for computation of mixed-mode
stress intensity factors along non-planar crack
fronts in three dimensions. Engng Fracture
Mech 2002; 69: 299-319.
[15] Wu EM. Strength and fracture of composites.
In: Boutman LJ, editors. Composite Materials,
Academic Press, 1974; 5, p. 191-247.
[16] Nikishkov GP, Atluri SN. Calculation of
fracture mechanics parameters for an arbitrary
three-dimensional crack, by the equivalent
domain integral method. Int J Num Meth Engng
1987; 24: 1801-1821.
[17] Eischen JW. An improved method for
computing the J2 integral. Engng Fracture Mech
1987; 26(5): 691-700.
