  2
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 Ｖ 成 果 報 告   □期中進度報告 
 
計劃名稱: 低溫電漿診斷及數值模擬與其在材料製程上之應用 
 
計畫類別：Ｖ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-002-098 
執行期間： 2008 年 8 月 1 日至 2009 年 7 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：徐振哲 
計畫參與人員： 張鴻文、吳丞以、許耀文、林昀 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：Ｖ精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
V 赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、列管
計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年 Ｖ二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：台灣大學化學工程系 
 
中   華   民   國  98 年 10 月 27  日 
  1
Diagnostics and numerical modeling of low pressure plasmas and the 
application in materials processing 
 
Hongwen Chang (張鴻文), Chengyi Wu(吳丞以), Yaowen Hsu (許耀文), Yun Lin (林昀), and 
Chengche Hsu(徐振哲)* 
Dept. of Chemical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 
 
 
Abstract 
     Diagnostic studies of an rf-capacitvely coupled plasma driven by ring-shape electrodes are 
performed with the focus of the investigation of the unintentional peripheral region breakdown.  
Upon this peripheral region breakdown, the radial profile of the electron density changes significantly 
from center-high to edge-high, as confirmed by the plasma appearance and by the surface temperature 
measurements.  It is found that this breakdown is controlled by the gas type, pressure, power, and the 
gap between the grounding sample stage and the glass chamber wall.  Among the factors, the gap 
appears to be the most critical one that controls this breakdown.  The voltage at which this 
breakdown occurred increases with the decrease in the pressure and the gap size.  In addition, argon 
plasmas show the lowest breakdown voltage, followed by nitrogen, oxygen, and helium plasmas.  
The above trends follow the left branch of the Paschen curve.   
 
摘要 
  電漿的穩定性、均勻度與放電模式是電漿製程中最重要的性質。本研究的主旨為研究射頻
電容耦合電漿在電極與腔體間隙之氣體崩潰及其對製程的影響。研究中使用之檢測工具為光譜
分析儀與電壓與電流探棒，並配合改變腔體設計，控制間隙之尺寸，以探討腔體設計、操作參
數與崩潰現象之相關性。實驗顯示，間隙之尺寸是影響間隙之崩潰最重要的因子，崩潰電壓隨
著間隙縮小以及壓力的下降而上升。此種崩潰現象可以帕申曲線  (Paschen curve) 之左半曲線來
解釋。
 
  3
hereinafter are peak-to-peak values unless otherwise specified.  The optical emission emanating from 
the plasma was measured using a spectrometer (Princeton Instrument SP2500i) equipped with a CCD 
array (ACTON, PIXIS100).  The resolution is 6.4 nm FWHM with a 300 lines/mm grating.  
Thermo labels (OmegaD1107) with the temperature indicator between 55 and 127 °C were used to 
monitor the temporal- and spatial-resolved temperature of the sample stage.  The thermo labels allow 
for a rational estimation of the surface temperature without sophisticated temperature measurement 
setups in the vacuum chamber. 
 
 
Figure 1: The schematic of the plasma system and the diagnostic 
tools used in this work.  The inset shows the detailed schematic 
of the gap between the sample stage and the chamber wall. 
 
 
3. Results and Discussion 
The appearance of the plasma with and without the peripheral region breakdown is first 
examined.  As shown in Figure 2(a) and (b), the plasma shows a significantly different optical 
emission both in its intensity and spatial distribution.  Figure 2(a) shows the discharge visual 
appearance of an O2 plasma without peripheral region breakdown.  As shown here, the plasma is 
well-confined in the region above the grounding stage in the plasma chamber.  It is observed that as 
the rf-voltage at the powered electrode increases and goes beyond a critical value, a breakdown in the 
peripheral region of the grounding stage, between this stage and the glass chamber wall, occurs, as 
shown in Figure 2(b).  A transition from a seemingly uniform radial profile to a profile that peaks 
near the gap accompanies the peripheral breakdown.  In Ar plasmas, the plasma appearance is similar 
to that shown in O2 plasmas prior to the peripheral breakdown, as shown in Figure 2(c).  As the 
breakdown occurs, the plasma in the peripheral region becomes highly non-uniform both in time and 
  5
 
The distortion of the bulk plasma sheath near the peripheral region is a factor that may affect the 
peripheral region breakdown.  Figure 3 shows the plasma appearance in the peripheral region with 
the increase in the power (and therefore the rf voltage).  Note that under the condition investigated, 
the peripheral breakdown occurs at a power of 20 W.  The distortion of the sheath is clearly shown in 
these figures as the power increases from 8 W to 20 W.  It is known that the sheath thickness 
decreases with the increase of the electron density18.  At 8 W, the electron density is low and the 
plasma sheath thickness, 6 mm as shown in Figure 3, is relatively large.  The sheath thickness is 
estimated based on the direct measurement of the dark region thickness near the boundary.  Due to 
the fact that the sheath is larger than the peripheral gap (5 mm), the plasma does not “see” the gap and 
the sheath boundary essentially follows the upper surface of the grounded stage and the glass chamber 
wall as shown in the 8-W picture in Figure 3.  With the increase of the power, the sheath thickness 
becomes smaller. As the sheath thickness is comparable to the peripheral gap, the plasma starts 
“seeing” the gap.  The sheath distortion therefore occurs, as shown in Figure 3 for the power equal to 
or greater than 12 W.  Such a distortion of the sheath creates a high electric field near the edge of the 
grounding stage due to the small curvature.  The electric field in this region is associated with the 
stage geometry as well as the plasma potential which couples to the periphery region.  
 
 
8W 12W 14W 18W 
 
20W 
Figure 3: The plasma appearance near the grounding stage-chamber wall gap.  The 
condition is Ar/O2 = 20/20 sccm under the pressure of 104 mtorr and the power from 8 to 20 
W.  A 1-cm scale bar is added in the 8 W picture. 
 
 
The peripheral region breakdown is further characterized by examining the electrical 
characteristics measured at the powered electrode.  As shown in Figure 4, the current and voltage 
both increase monotonically with power.  At a transition power of 52 W, the peripheral region 
breakdown occurs and the current and voltage simultaneously drops by 20.4 and 36.2%, respectively.  
  7
shows the impedance of plasma has changed as periphery breakdown.  
 
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
3/1
Power (W)
R
at
io
4/1
 
Figure 5: The amplitude of the current and voltage waveforms 
of an Ar plasma as a function of power under 0.0426 torr 
pressure.  The vertical dashed line indicates the power at 
which the transition of periphery breakdown occurs. 
 
It is known that the unintended peripheral region breakdown produces detrimental effects to 
plasma processes15.  Here we examine the process window for the occurrence of the peripheral 
region breakdown.  With the identified process window, the peripheral breakdown can therefore be 
effectively eliminated by the careful selection of the operation conditions or the intelligent 
modification of the system design.  We note that the peripheral gap width, the plasma gas, the 
pressure, and the power are the major factors that affect the breakdown behavior in the system under 
investigation.  The effect of the plasma gas on the transition voltage is first examined and Figure 6 
illustrates the results.  We first note that at a given pressure, Ar has the lowest transition voltage 
value, followed by nitrogen, oxygen, and helium.  For example, the transition voltages at 100 mtorr 
are 577, 1470, and 2444 V for Ar, N2, and O2 plasmas, respectively.  This trend follows closely with 
the breakdown voltage, i.e. the Paschen curve19 and is consistent with the results reported by 
Lisovskiy et al6.  We note that such a breakdown voltage is a complex function of the gas properties 
such as the electronegativity and ionization energy4, 19. 
 
  9
50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120
1500
1750
2000
2250
2500
2750
3000
5mm
7mm
6mm
Tr
an
si
tio
n 
vo
lta
ge
 (V
)
pressure (mtorr)
O2
 
Figure 7: Transition power versus pressure for different gap size in plasmas. 
No peripheral region breakdown for a 4 mm gap for the rf voltage up to 3100 
V and the pressure up to 120 mttorr.  Note that lines are to guide the eye 
only. 
 
 
4. Conclusion 
In this work, the factors that control the peripheral region breakdown of a capacitvely coupled 
plasma driven by ring-shape electrodes are identified and investigated.  It is found that the voltage at 
which the peripheral region breakdown is controlled by the operating pressure and the gap between 
the sample stage and glass chamber wall.  This transition voltage increases with the decrease of the 
pressure and with the decrease of the gap size.  At the same plasma power and the gap size, Ar 
plasmas have the lowest transition voltage, followed by nitrogen, oxygen, and helium plasmas.  
These trends are consistent with the left branch of the Paschen curve in which the breakdown voltage 
decreases with the increase of pd value.  Among the geometric and operating parameters, the gap 
size appears to be the most sensitive factor that influences the breakdown behavior. 
 
Acknowledgement 
This work was supported by National Science Council under NSC97-2221-E-002-098. 
 
 
Reference 
2008 American Vacuum Society International Symposium, Boston, USA 
(2008/10/19 ~ 2008/10/24) 
 
Report by Chengche (Jerry) Hsu (徐振哲) 
Assistant Professor 
Dept. of Chemical Engineering 
National Taiwan University, Taiwan 
 
I. Introduction 
 
American Vacuum Society (美國真空協會, AVS) is the largest technical and 
scientific society worldwide dedicates to vacuum technology and science.  Every 
year, this society holds international symposium in northern America for the 
topics associated with surface science, vacuum technology, bio-medical researches, 
nano-scale science, and state-of-the- art technologies.  The 2008 symposium was 
held Oct 19 ~ Oct 24, 2008 in Boston, WA.   
 
Plasma processes, because of the nature and the industrial demand, greatly interest 
the academic and industrial society.  Plasma Science and Technology has 
therefore been one of the largest programs at AVS international symposium.  
This program highlights a full spectrum of advanced research activities involving 
plasmas, ranging from the topics that have great industrial interest to the subjects 
that draw significant academic attention.  These topics include semiconductor 
related processes, gas phase and surface diagnostics and characterization, and 
novel plasma sources.  The complete program includes fourteen oral sessions and 
two poster sessions covering plasma etching and deposition, plasma-surface 
interactions, plasma processes for nanotechnology, plasma diagnostics, novel 
materials for semiconductor device fabrication, plasma sources, and plasma 
modeling. 
 
This year in the 2008 AVS Symposium, I have had the chance to present my 
research work (one oral and one poster presentation), to chair the “Plasma 
Processing for 3-D Integration, Photonics, Optoelectronics and Memory Devices” 
session, and to be on the committee of the Plasma Science and Technology 
Program. 
 
II. Activities Involved 
 
thoughts associated with each presentation.  It also greatly increases the 
visibility of researches from the National Taiwan University. 
 
C. Program Committee Executive Meeting 
One of the most important work I have involved during this symposium was 
serving as the Plasma Science and Technology program executive committee 
member and attending the executive meeting.  The committee chair for 2008 
program is Professor Jane Chang in the Department of Chemical and 
Biomolecular Engineering at University of California, Los Angeles.  The 
committee members involve researchers from the academia and the national 
labs as well as engineers and managers from the industry.  I have had the 
chance to serve in the committee and have been the first committee member in 
this program from Taiwan.  The 2008 committee member work started at the 
committee meeting on Oct. 2007 at Seattle, followed by frequent e-mail 
communications and conference calls throughout the early part of this year.  
The abstract review work started on June and the conference program was 
finalized on early July.  
 
III. Symposium Highlights and Concluding Remarks 
 
The 2008 AVS international symposium covers the topics from the fundamental 
concepts and properties of surface and interfacial phenomenon to the processes in 
fabricating nanoscale devices; covers solid-state materials processes and 
characterization to bio-medical materials applications; covers plasma surface 
interactions to thin film deposition and etching processes.  The variety of the 
topics covers and the depth of each topic have been one of the most promising 
program feature for this symposium. 
 
Given the promisingly broad scope of the symposium this year, Plasma Science 
and Technology Program has been one of the largest programs.  As a part of the 
program member, I have had a great chance getting involved in the in-depth 
discussions.  Having my graduate students present our work in two sessions, 
moderating one session, as well as serving in the committee.  Students have had 
great chance to see world-class research work and interact with researchers all 
over the world.  I have had the opportunity to interact with the researchers 
working on a great variety of areas and to improve the visibility of Taiwan and 
National Taiwan University among the community. 
 
