feasibility. 
英文關鍵詞： Text steganography, data hiding, Big-5 
 
International Journal of Security and Its Applications 
Vol. 6, No. 2, April, 2012 
 
 
173 
 
Data Hiding on Text Using Big-5 Code 
 
 
Jun-Chou Chuang
1
 and Yu-Chen Hu
2
 
1
Department of Computer Science and Communication Engineering 
Providence University 
200 Chung-Chi Rd., Shalu, Taichung 43301, Republic of China (Taiwan) 
2
 Department of Computer Science and Information Management 
Providence University 
200 Chung-Chi Rd., Shalu, Taichung 43301, Republic of China (Taiwan) 
lzchung@pu.edu.tw, ychu@pu.edu.tw 
Abstract 
This paper presents a text hiding scheme using Big-5 code. Some text-hiding schemes 
embed secret information at between-word and between-character by adding tabs or spaces. 
Liu et al. proposed a Chinese text data hiding scheme to divide the Chinese character into left 
and right parts for data embedding. However, the adjusted spaces or divided characters of 
between-word may look like strange and it may expose the risk of security. Therefore, we 
intend to design a text hiding scheme using Big-5 code. The secret is hidden into spaces 
between-word and between-character of a cover text by placing a Big-5 code either 20 or 7F. 
The visual quality of the stego-document is the same as the original document and therefore 
reducing the suspicious of attention by hackers. Experimental results show that the visual 
quality of the proposed scheme achieves good results and feasibility. 
 
Keywords: Text hiding, data hiding, image hiding, Big-5 
 
1. Introduction 
With the advance of computer and Internet technologies, protecting personal information 
becomes an important issue. Traditional Cryptography for symmetric encryption schemes and 
non-symmetric encryption schemes can provide high-level data security, but they are not 
flexibility for all kinds of media. Steganography also called data-hiding [1-7] is the covert 
communication which embeds secret information into a meaningful media with imperceptibly 
and only the authorized users can extract the hidden data. The meaningful media used to 
hidden secret message is called the cover media, and the encoding result is called the stego 
media. Generally speaking, a data hiding scheme should satisfy the followings two issues. 
Firstly, the hiding capacity should be as large as possible. Secondly, the visual quality of the 
embedding result should not distinguishable from the cover media. 
Digital image is the most popular camouflage media and the main reason is image pixels 
can be distortion. Images are very easy to make imperceptible modification. When an image 
pixel is tiny modified, it is not easily awarded something difference by the human eyes. 
Recently, some researches concerning the data hiding scheme on the text documents. The 
embedding payload of a text document is less than a digital image because it is not easy to 
find the redundancy information in a text document. In generally, text hiding schemes [8-15] 
can be classified into two types, content format and language semantic. The content format 
methods adjust the width of tracking, the height of leading, number of white spaces, font 
International Journal of Security and Its Applications 
Vol. 6, No. 2, April, 2012 
 
 
175 
 
3. The Proposed Scheme 
Wang et al. applies the L-R scheme and U-D scheme partition a Chinese word. Their 
scheme has two drawbacks. First, an embeddable Chinese word should satisfy L-R or 
U-D partition. Second, the visual quality of the embedding result still leaves a lot of 
places can be improved. For that, we proposed an effective text hiding scheme using 
Big-5 code. The secret is hidden into spaces between-word and between-character of a 
cover text by placing a Big-5 code either 20 or 7F. The advantage of our scheme gets 
good visual quality of the stego document and it does not cause any visual distortion. A 
portion of the Big-5 table is listed in Table 1. The hexadecimal number of a white-space 
in the Big-5 table is 20. We can see that the Big-5 code 7F is a blank character and it 
can simulate as the white-space function. That is, we use the two Big-5 codes 20 and 7F 
to embed secret bit 0 or 1, respectively. The block diagram of the proposed scheme is 
shown in Figure 3. 
To embed secret into a cover text, we shall adjust the content of a cover text. We need to 
add a white-space in each between-word and between-character. Secret messages are 
sequentially converted into 0’s and 1’s binary stream. One white-space of between-word and 
between-character in a cover text is used to hide one secret bit. If we want to embed a secret 
bit 0, the Big-5 code of white-space 20 is applied. If we want to embed a secret bit 1, the Big-
5 code of blank character 7F is applied. After finishing the secret embedding, we add an end-
of-code 7F to indicate no secret of input. The hiding capacity of a cover text can be 
determined before data embedding. We can calculate the total number of white-spaces in a 
cover text. Assume a cover text contains w characters; the embedding payload of a cover text 
is (w-1) bits. 
 
 
Figure 3. The Block Diagram of the Proposed Scheme 
International Journal of Security and Its Applications 
Vol. 6, No. 2, April, 2012 
 
 
177 
 
 
Figure 5. English Cover Text 
 
Table 1.  Compare the embedding payload of Chinese cover text to our scheme, 
Liu’s method, and Wang’s method 
Method Payload (bits) 
Liu et al. [10] ~63 
Wang et al. [14] ~73 
Our method 243 
 
5. Conclusion 
The paper presents a text hiding technique using Big-5 code. The proposed method applies 
two Big-5 codes 20 and 7F to encode the secret bit. The Big-5 code 20 is to represent secret 
bit “0” and the Big-5 code 7F is used to represent the secret bit “1”. The secret bit is hidden 
into the white-space of between-character and between-word in a cover text. Experimental 
results show that the visual quality of the proposed scheme achieves good results and 
feasibility. 
 
Acknowledgements  
This work is supported by the National Science Council, Taiwan, R.O.C. under contract 
NSC 100-2221-E-126-008. The authors also gratefully acknowledge the helpful comments 
and suggestions of the reviewers, which have improved the presentation. 
 
References 
 
[1]  J. C. Chuang and Y. C. Hu, “An Adaptive Image Authentication Scheme for Vector Quantization 
Compressed Image”, Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, 22, 5 (2011). 
[2]  D. Kundur and D. Hatzinakos, “Digital watermarking for Telltale Tamper Proofing and Authentication”, 
Proceedings of the IEEE, 87, 7 (1999). 
[3]  C. S. Lu and H.Y.M. Laio, “Multipurpose Watermarking for Image Authentication and Protection”, IEEE 
Transactions on Image Processing, 10, 10 (2001). 
[4]  J. C. Chuang, C. C. Chang and Y. C. Hu, “A Novel Color Image Hiding Scheme Using Error Diffusion 
Technique”, Imaging Science Journal, 56, 1 (2008). 
[5]  C. C. Chang, P. Y. Lin and J. C. Chuang, “A Grayscale Image Steganography Based upon Discrete Cosine 
Transformation”, Journal of Digital Information Management, 8, 2 (2010). 
[6]  J. C. Chuang, and C. C. Chang, “Using a Simple and Fast Image Compression Algorithm to Hide Secret 
Information”, International Journal of Computers and Applications, 28 (2006). 
[7]  C. C. Chang, J. C. Chuang and Y. C. Hu, “Spatial Domain Image Hiding Scheme Using Pixel-Values 
Differencing, Fundamental Informaticae, 3, 70 (2006). 
 國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                   
 
一、參加會議經歷 
ISA2012 本次會議於 2012 年 4 月 28 至 30 日，於中國上海召開第六屆 International 
Conference on Information Security and Assurance, 簡稱 ISA2012)。本次會議邀請知名的專家
學者 Prof. Chin-Chen Chang、Sabah Mohammed、及 Jinan Fiaidhi。來給予三場專題演講。 
 
本次會議主題主要深入探討以下各種多媒體安全研究。主題如下: 
(1) Security Engineering and Its Application: Security Level Definition Criteria and Its 
Application ， Security Requirements Engineering ， Security in System/Software/Product 
Development Site，Security in Development Processes，Security Maturity Model，Security 
Evaluation Criteria and Methodology，New Idea, Theory and Paradigm for Security。 
 
(2) Security and Assurance in Operational Area: Security Policy, Strategy and Management、
Authentication and Identity Management、Security Education and Training、Personnel Security 
and Privacy、Trust Negotiation, Establishment and Management、Vulnerability, Threat, and Risk 
Analysis。 
 
 
計畫編號 NSC 100-2221-E-126-008 
計畫名稱 植基於 Big-5碼之中文字隱藏技術利用 Word檔案格式 
出國人員
姓名 
莊潤洲 服務機構及職稱 
靜宜大學資訊傳
播工程學系 
助理教授 
會議時間 
100 年 4月 28日
至 
100 年 4月 30日 
會議地點 
上海中國 
會議名稱 
(中文)  
(英文)  The 6th International Conference on Information 
Security and Assurance 2012 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 
(英文) Text Hiding Scheme Using Big-5 Code 
 接受信件: 
 
Dear  Jun-Chou Chuang,  Chun-Chi Lo,  Yu-Chen Hu,  Piyu-Yu Tsai 
 
We are happy to inform you that your paper entitled 
 
"Text Hiding Scheme Using Big-5 Code", 
 
submitted to ISA 2012 IPS, has been accepted. 
 
 
Below, you will find attached the reports of the reviewers. 
Please consider the reviewers' comments carefully when preparing the final version of your 
paper. 
 
Please check next schedule very carefully. 
Please note that any delay may prevent the inclusion of your paper in the proceedings, SERSC 
journal and SCIE journal. 
 
 
The ISA 2012 IPS site also provides all necessary information for conference registration and 
hotel accommodation. 
 
 
Best regards, 
 
ISA 2012 IPS PC chairs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/08/16
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 植基於Big-5碼之中文字隱藏技術利用Word檔案格式
計畫主持人: 莊潤洲
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-126-008- 學門領域: 資訊安全
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之
成果如辦理學術活
動、獲得獎項、重要
國際合作、研究成果
國際影響力及其他協
助產業技術發展之具
體效益事項等，請以
文字敘述填列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
