2before mid-1970s (Khan et al., 2005; Mirer,
2003; NOISH, 1998). Evidence is equivocal for
cancer at several other sites, including stomach,
esophagus, lung, prostate, brain, colon, and
hematopoietic system (Mirer, 2003). The most
notable associations, based on precision,
magnitude, and evidence for increasing risk
with increasing exposure are those between
straight MWFs and both rectal and laryngeal
cancer, as well as soluble MWFs and laryngeal
cancer (Savitz, 2003).
The most likely causal agents for
respiratory effects in these workers are
microbial contaminants in water-based MWFs,
not straight mineral oils (Bukowski, 2003).
Recirculation of these fluids might cause
microbial colonization as well as lead to mist
formation around the machines, creating health
problems including respiratory illness, cancer,
and dermatitis (Yadav et al., 2003;
Mattsby-Blatzer et al., 1989). This is consistent
with the epidemic outbreaks of hypersensitivity
pneumonitis (HP), bronchitis, and asthma
reported at some work sites using water-based
MWFs (Bukowski, 2003).
The existing practice of repeated use and
recirculation of the modern MWFs with
complex composition (organic and inorganic
salts, hydrocarbons, organic esters and
lubricating fluids) and neutrality to alkaline pH
allows the establishment of a rich microbial
diversity in these fluids (Khan et al., 2005).
Until recently, only limited information was
available on airborne microorganisms associated
with MWFs as the potential causative agents of
adverse health effects in workers (Gorny et al,
2004). Considering large number of workers
exposed to MWFs, it is important to gain
qualitative and quantitative information
regarding the airborne microbial hazards and the
relevant measurement of adverse agents (Gorny
et al, 2004).This study was to investigate the
characteristics of bioaerosols associated with
MWFs at a metal cutting factory in Taiwan.
Materials and Methods
Bulk MWF samples.
Samples of fresh and reused synthetic MWFs
were collected every day for one working week
at a metal-cutting factory in central Taiwan.
Such MWF are composed of water-soluble
organic substances dissolved in water (working
dilution, 2 to 2.5%). The MWF tank was
cleaned and filled with the fresh MWFs at day 1
and recirculation continued for one working
week. Make-up fresh MWFs were added at day
4. The temperature of the fluid was kept at 25°C.
Water for mixing the MWF was supplied from
the city water system. The MWFs are
biocide-free.
Bioaerosol samples.
Measurements of CFUs of airborne bacteria per
cubic meter of air were performed in the
metal-cutting machine shop with the Biosampler
(SKC Inc., Eighty Four, PA) and outsides with
the MAS-100 samplers (Merck, Germany). The
selection of samplers is according to the
detection limit of the samplers. The Biosamplers
are suitable for highly-contaminated
environments, and the MAS-100 samplers are
suitable for general environments. The air
sampling was performed at 0.5, 1.5, 3, and 10
meters from the cutting machine. Samples were
also collected outside the plant, where is about
20 m from the machine. Three measurements
were done at each site.
4Table 1 The identified bacteria in the MWFs and bioaerosols.
Discussion
Over the years, a successful approach for dealing
with MWFs has been developed: systems
management of the fluids (Sheehan and Hands
2007). A combination of interventions (fluid
management, mist control, improved fresh air
ventilation, and medical surveillance/restriction)
could eliminate any new cases 11 months after
the first diagnosis of HP (O’Brein, 2003). It is
crucial that awareness of proper standard
operating procedure is shared with everyone
involved with the fluids in order to provide
proper MWFs management (Gauthier, 2003).
However, these fluids can quickly become
contaminated with foreign materials and
chemicals, thereby become aerosolized into mist
(Gauthier, 2003). With proper education and
training, one will be able to control what gets
aerosolized (Gauthier, 2003). Monitoring and
maintaining the fluids also provides for more
effective and efficient productivity (Gauthier,
2003).
Using effective controls can reduce personal
exposures and airborne concentrations (Sheehan
and Hands 2007). Mist can be removed
effectively in a collector that uses a HEPA filter
as its final collection stage (Leith et al., 2003).
In MWFs In bioaerosols less than 3 m In bioaerosols more than 10 m
Bacillus circulans
Burkholderia cepacia
Citrobacter freundii
Corynebacterium urealyticum
Enterobacter aerogenes
Klebsiella oxytoca
Ochrobactrum anthropi
Bacillus pumilus
B. thuringiensis
Brevibacillus brevis
Burkholderia cepacia
Corynebacterium aquaticum
C. urealyticum
Flavimonas oryzihabitans
Micrococcus spp.
Oerskovia turbata
Ralstonia pickettii
Staphylococcus capitis
S. epidermidis
S. lentus
S. xylosus
Actinomyces neuii ssp anitratus
Aeromonas hydrophila group 2
Arcanobacterium haemolyticum
Bacillus coagulans
B. licheniformis
B. pumilus
B. sphaericus
B. stearothermophilus
B. thuringiensis
Brevibacillus brevis
Brevibacterium spp.
Cellulomonas spp.
Corynebacterium aquaticum
C. minutissimum
C. urealyticum
Micrococcus spp.
Oerskovia xanthineolytica
Serratia marcescens
Staphylococcus capitis
S. xylosus
