 I
目錄 
中文摘要 Ⅱ
英文摘要 Ⅲ
1. 前言 1 
2. 研究目的 2 
3. 文獻探討 3 
4. 研究方法 5 
5. 結果與討論 7 
附錄：  
A. 發表論文  
A.1 Compensating technique of field distorting error for the CO2 laser galvanometric 
scanning drilling machines 16
A.2 Study on CAD/CAM technology applied for CO2 laser processing system 24
A.3 Laser direct write patterning technique of indium tin oxide film 28
A.4 Tool path generation for 2D profiles in CO2 laser machine system 35
 III
Abstract 
This project is the R&D of the machine of dual Laser beam with third-harmonic Nd:YAG 
Laser and CO2 Laser. The purpose is to develop the dual Laser beam machine with two different 
laser wavelengths and to reaserch the laser processing technologies and parameters. Recently, 
traditional manufacturing technologies could not come up with the process of new materials; thus 
the advanced manufacture technology would improve the production accuracy, materials 
diversification, plus efficiency, and would bring the cost down. The research includes the design 
and development of dual Laser beam machine system, the development of manufacturing 
technologies of printing circuit board and TFT LCD glass plate, and the parameters of laser 
processing. The developing system, under the schedule of 2005, has been approved and under 
operating. Some results and current operating situations are represented in this proposal. The 
process technology developments mainly work on the R&D of material process, such as printing 
circuit boards, TFT LCD glass plate, silicon wafer, and ITO glass. The analysis and optimization of 
laser material process parameters will be received by Taguchi method. 
The major work of the project is developing the laser processing system with the UV laser and 
the CO2 laser, which includes the design and analysis of third-harmonic Nd:YAG laser optical 
system, the assemble of mechanical system, the development of CCD image processing system, the 
development of human mechanical interface, and the measurement and compensation of accuracy 
of mechanical system. In the measurement and compensation of accuracy of mechanical system, the 
research gives a pre-compensation technique to correct the error of system, which using the 
two-dimensional Lagrange polynomials modified the control commands. According to the 
compensation experiments, the X-axis of the XY feeding system decreased from 375 microns to 2.8 
microns and the Y-axis is from 373 microns to 2.6 microns. In addition, the results in this study 
indicate that the compensation method effectively amended the field distortion and increased the 
accuracy of the positioning of the holes that were drilled using a laser galvanometric scanning 
drilling machine. The positioning errors of drilling holes have reduced from ±0.3mm to ±0.05 mm 
after error compensation. 
In this project, a dual laser beam machine system with third –harmonic Nd:YAG laser and CO2 
laser is expected to achieve. This project will provide studesnts the capability of integration of 
opto-mechatronic and will progress domestic factories’ ability of laser process technologies. In 
feature, the related technologies will transfer to the industrial community so as to enhance our 
international competitiveness. 
 2
根據台灣電路板協會 2003 年展覽中的市場分析調查，全球印刷電路板盲孔鑽孔加工產值
在 2002 年成長近 13%，並且這成長比例一直持續到未來幾年。盲孔板的應用主要是手機板，
其比例約 50%；除此之外就是在 IC 基材上的應用，其比例約 36%。除了手機板及 IC 基材的
應用外，盲孔板的應用及比例。此外，報告中同時指出 2001 年印刷電路板輸出萎縮 22-23%，
但盲孔板產值卻十分平穩，並且未來幾年預計成長比率約 12%，並且會超越傳統的印刷電路
板成長。而日本近年發展軟性電路板，其主要是盲孔結構。因此在 2003 年日本軟性電路板產
值將近 4 億 5 千萬至 5 億美元，其主要是手機與影像攝影機的產值。在盲孔製程技術中，必
須使用雷射鑽孔，當然也可以使用電漿鑽孔與微影製程進行盲孔加工。在加工層與層之間的
盲孔（通道、通孔）及性電路板的鑽孔加工製程，國內外產商主要利用雷射鑽孔方式達成，
且 HDI（High Density Interconnects）的鑽孔製程主要設備為雷射鑽孔機。因此，國內必須朝
向雷射鑽孔技術發展，才能因應國際潮流。經由台灣電路板協會（TPCA）統計，在 2001 年
台灣雷射鑽孔機共 230 台且一直在不斷增加中，未來雷射鑽孔機將取代大多數機械鑽孔機市
場，因此國內因該投入這方面技術研發，開發出雷射鑽孔技術，才能與國外 PCB 鑽孔機製造
業競爭。另外，國內近來提出兩兆雙星的科技發展計畫，主要是針對半導體、TFT LCD、數
位內容產業及生物技術產業進行密集的科技發展。 
根據報導指出瀚宇彩晶表示，未來南科的五代線將主攻液晶電視市場，初期規劃主要生
產 23 英寸、28 英寸及 32 英寸產品，不過，為了與友達、奇美新推出的 46 英寸、47 英寸產
品競爭，將以五代線切割 50 英寸 LCD TV 面板。其中以彩晶的五代線玻璃基板尺寸號稱全台
五代線最大，為 1,200mmX 1,300mm，將以 2 片切割推出 50 英寸產品，實際量產規劃預計將
在 2004 年第三到第四季間。彩晶估計 2004 年其大尺寸 TFT 面板出貨將比 2003 年增長 60%
以上，其中液晶電視面板出貨目標預計達 167 萬片，目前五代廠生產線第一階段裝機工程已
完成 3 萬片的基板月產能，2004 年第二季度前完成月投基板 5.4 萬片的目標。 
根據統計資料與報導看來，半導體與 TFT LCD 產業有十分不錯的願景，發展這方面的製
程設備將有助於台灣產家之國際競爭力。而在半導體與 LCD 面板製程技術中，都必須進行切
割流程，這切割製程攸關晶片與玻璃面板的成本。良好的切割技術將不會使晶片與玻璃面板
損壞，快速的切割技術將使產量提升，因此提供良好及快速的切割技術將降低生產製造成本。
在先前的晶片切割技術，主要是利用氣體高速主軸進行晶圓切割，但由於鑽石砂輪片的技術
瓶頸使主軸轉速無法提升，在切割晶片時受到限制，因此發展雷射切割技術將有助於晶圓切
割技術的提昇。 
根據以上的資料統計，未來先進加工技術將會朝向雷射加工加工發展，或許未
來許多加工技術將會被雷射加工取代，本實驗室將一直不斷朝向此一技術進行研
究，期望未來能提供業界相關之技術支援，以提昇國家機械工業之國際競爭力與台
灣在國際上之技術能力。  
2. 研究目的： 
本研究的主要目的，為發展出一雙雷射束複合加工機，並且針對現今電子產業主要材料
進行加工參數研究。在計畫背景中指出，雷射加工機可應用於 PCB 盲孔鑽孔、晶圓切割與
TFT LCD 切割上，因此本計畫將分別利用所發展之雷射加工機，進行 PCB、晶圓與 TFT LCD
玻璃基板加工參數研究。希望藉由發展雷射加工機及技術，提昇國內雷射加工技術能力，並
且將有助於台灣之國際競爭力提昇。而不同材料之雷射加工應用中技術上，所使用的雷射波
長完全不同，因此發展雙雷射束雷射加工機台，將可增加加工材料的種類，這同時也有助於
學校多元化的研究發展，並且增加研究設備之使用效率。 
在本計畫主要利用先前投入開發之 PCB CO2 雷射鑽孔機機台，進行雙雷射束加工設備之
設計變更，利用 3 倍頻之 Nd-YAG 雷射安裝在原先所設計之機台中，使其具有遠紅外線與紫
外線之雙波長雷射加工機，這乃本計畫之最初之目的。利用所完成之雙雷射束複合加工機，
進行 PCB 電路板、矽晶圓與 TFT LCD 基板加工，並進行相關之製程參數研究。藉由本計畫
 4
3. Study on CAD/CAM technology applied for CO2 laser processing system, The 7th International 
Conference on Frontiers of Design and Manufacturing (ICFDM’ 2006), 2006. 
國內研討會： 
1. ITO 薄膜雷射直寫圖案化製程技術, 2006 能源與光電薄膜科技研討會暨國科會專題計畫研
究成果發表會, 2006(accepted) 
2. Application of Laser Scanning Marking System with Image Processing Technique, The 4th 
Conference on Precision Machinery and Manufacturing Technology, no.132, 2006. 
3. Analysis of Applying Laser Marking on Brittle Curved Surface Material, The 14th Automation 
Technology Conference, no.P22, 2006. 
4. Evaluation and Analysis of Absorption for Engineering Materials in Laser Processing System, 
Optics and Photonics Taiwan 2005 (OPT 2005), no. PC-FR2-06, Tainan, Taiwan, 2005(12). 
5. 影像處理應用於印刷電路板之瑕疵檢測，AOI Forum, 2005. 
6. 雷射加工系統之單片式 f-θ 聚焦透鏡研究，The 22nd National conference on mechanical 
Engineering，2005. 
7. 影像處理技術於精密加工機定位之應用，AOI Forum, 2005. 
8. 雷射加工機  CAD/CAM 轉檔技術研究，The 22nd National conference on mechanical 
Engineering, 2005. 
碩士論文： 
1. 蕭文澤，PCB CO2 雷射鑽孔機進給平台動態精度檢驗及 2D 補償方法研究, 彰化師範大
學，2005. 
2. 許釋文，PCB CO2 雷射鑽孔機 CAD/CAM 整合與應用研究, 彰化師範大學，2005. 
3. 陳建銓，PCB CO2 雷射鑽孔機 f-θ聚焦鏡頭設計之研究, 彰化師範大學，2005. 
4. 吳士元，應用 DSP 於 CO2 雷射標印系統之研製, 彰化師範大學，2006. 
 
 
Reference: 
[1] A. Simchi, F. Petzoldt, H. Pohl, On the development of direct metal laser sintering for rapid 
tooling, Journal of Materials Processing Technology, 141(2003), pp.319-328 
[2] J.C. Ion, L.M. Anisdahl, A PC-based system for procedure development in laser transformation 
hardening, Journal of Materials Processing Technology, 65(1997), pp.261-267 
[3] C. Dunsky, High-Speed Microvia Formation with UV Solid-State Lasers, Proceedings of the 
IEEE, Vol. 90, No. 10 (2002), pp. 1670-1680 
[4] N. Ikeda, T. Akaba, F. Inoue, S. Takahashi, O. Noda, Diode-Pumped Solid-State Ultraviolet 
Laser Micro Processing System, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. Technical Review, Vol. 40, 
No. 2(2003), pp.1-5 
[5] S. Venkat, T. Hannon, Laser Processing- The Future of HDI Manufacturing, Electronics 
Manufacturing Technology Symposium(2002), pp. 149-153 
[6] S. Clouser, M. Sakamoto, Copper Foil Treatment for CO2 Laser Direct Drilling, 
www.gouldelectronics.com 
[7] Y. Mikado, Effects of HDI Materials for Laser Via Hole Forming, Polymers and adhesives in 
Microelectronics and photonics (2001), pp.213-217 
[8] J. Deak, L. Hertel, Laser Via Formation in Flexible Substrates for High Density Electronic 
Assembly, 24th International Spring Seminar on Electronics Technology(2001), pp.163-166 
[9] I.V. Zsolt, Laser Processing of Adhesives and Polymeric Materials for Microelectronics 
Packaging Application, Adhesive joining and coating technology in electronics 
manufacturing(2000), pp.289-295 
[10] K.W.G. Eric, H.Y. Zheng, G.C. Lim, Laser Drilling of Micro-Vias in PCB Substrates, 2000 
Electronics Packaging Technology Conference, pp.321-326 
[11] N. Wakabayashi, T. Ide, Y. Aoki, New drilling technique for multilayered materials by single 
shot laser irradiation, Applied Surface Science 197-198(2002), pp.873-876 
[12] T.C. Chen, R.B. Darling, Parametric studies on pulsed near ultraviolet frequency tripled 
 6
件，其缺點為分光後的光班為扇面形狀，會影響鑽孔加工之孔形，如圖 2(b)所示。最後，也
可使用諧振腔進行分光，其中諧振腔主要由兩個反射鏡構成，其較沒有稜鏡使光班扇形化的
問題，如圖 2(c)所示。目前雷射鑽孔機技術，目前包含日本 Hitachi 與 Mitsubishi 公司所開發
出的雷射鑽孔機均使用分光技術，將雷射鑽孔機效率提昇。 
本計畫主要目的為建構一台雙波長雷射加工系統，因此所採用的方法不同於上述兩家大
公司，主要將利用美國 Excellon 公司所生產之雙波長雷射鑽孔機做為設計參考(如圖 3 所示)，
發展一台具有兩種不同波長之雷射加工系統，方便未來進行相關研究之用。 
 
1-雷射產生器；2-聚焦鏡；3-工件；4-分光鏡；5-45°反射鏡；6-活性介質；7-共振腔全反射鏡；8-分光鏡 
圖 2 雷射分光技術示意圖 
         
藉由雷射干涉儀量測
得知誤差補償值
輸入Matlab軟體建立
擬合方程式
輸入運動控制程式中
進行補償
利用雷射干涉儀量測
補償後定位精度
精度是否合乎
要求
是
否
開始
結束
 
圖 3 EXCELLON 雙波長雷射鑽孔機            圖 4 一維精度補正流程圖  
機台精度補正技術方面，本計畫包含進給系統與掃瞄系統精度不正技術進行相關研究。
一般進給系統補償技術，利用量測系統量測機台定位誤差，再藉由一維曲線擬合方式求得誤
差方程式，將所得之誤差方程式結合到進給系統控制器中，如此就可以補正機台之定位誤差。
補償技術流程圖，如圖 4 所示。雖然一維精度補正技術可以有效降低單軸進給系統定位精度，
但一般進給系統多為雙軸進給系統（XY Table），對於這一種補償技術並不適合。本計畫對此
發展二維補償技術，進行 XY 平台之定位精度校正。此外，本技術也可用於掃瞄系統之精度
補正。這方面的技術發展，也分別發表在 JSME 期刊與 International machine Tools and 
Manufacturing 期刊上。 
 8
        
(a) 45°雷射反射鏡架              (b) Z-axis 反射鏡架                       
圖 6 雷射反射鏡架 
X
Y
Beam Expander
Aperture
Mirror 1
Galvanometric Scanner
Tablef-theta Lens
Mirror 2
Mirror 3
Mirror 4
Move
Linear Motor
(CO2 Laser)
Mirror 5
Mirror 6
Mirror 7
(UV Laser)
 
圖 7 雙雷射束加工系統光學路徑示意圖 
(b) 機台製作與組裝 
本計畫預計採用具掃瞄頭之光學系統架構，以增加加工速率與精度。除了光學路徑規劃，
機台系統的設計目前也都已經完成，其機台規格如表 1 所示。機台設計在計畫申請前已完成
初步的設計規劃，並且也組裝完成；現今已經在進行壓克力材料之鑽孔加工與切割加工。但
先前所完成之機台為單一波長（CO2）之雷射加工機，所能加工之材料有限，因此增加另一
種波長之雷射將有助於機台之應用，使本機台具有多元化加工特性，這對於學術機構研究而
言，是比較不浪費資源的設計。針對雙雷射複合加工機台設計，先前本實驗室就有考慮使用
雙雷射束的設計；因此，在本計畫執行時僅需增加 3 倍頻之 Nd-YAG 雷射所需之設備，即可
完成雙雷射束複合加工機台的設計。由於考量進給平台精度，本計畫將原先之 XY 平台進行
改良，將原先的無鐵心之 Y 軸線性馬達性統，改良成有鐵心支線性馬達性統，其結構如圖 8
所示。本計畫同時增加一 Z 軸進給系統，主要做為 3 倍頻 Nd:YAG 雷射之掃瞄頭與聚焦系統
固定及調整聚位置用，如圖 9 所示。整機結構如圖 10 所示。 
機台規格 雷射加工機台規劃，包含 XY 平台及進行系統、機座、橫
樑與 Z 軸及進給系統設計。 
XY 平台及進行系統： 
進給系統：線性馬達 
行程：620×510 mm 
精度：0.005/620 (X axis) 
      0.005/510 (Y axis) 
Z 軸及進給系統： 
  進給系統：伺服馬達 
  行程：80 mm 
  精度：0.1/80 
機座： 
  鑄鐵機座 
橫樑： 
  角鋼焊接 
表 1 機台規格表 
 10
 
圖 11 加工位置與靶標之關係 
    
(a) 標靶 1                                 (b) 標靶 2 
    
(a) 標靶 3                                   (d) 標靶 4 
圖 12 雷射加工機收尋標靶之情形 
 
圖 13 藉由影像處理系統所求知標靶位置 
(d) 機台控制介面設計與撰寫 
在控制介面，本計畫自行發展出控制程式，將藉由 C 語言（BCB）程式進行撰寫，完成
靶標取像情形 
影像處理計算之靶標位置 
 12
 
圖 18 加工成品，材料：1.5mm 壓克力平板 
     
(a) 指差圖                               (b) 圓弧                 
圖 19 刀具路徑模擬結果 
雷射軟板切割技術 
由於現今的科技產品，如 PC、Mobile 等高科技產物越做越小，其控制晶片核心為了在有
限的空間內塞入許多新興的功能，因此也逐漸採用多層撓性印刷電路板之設計概念，利用 2D
甚至於 3D 的堆疊方式來設計所要之電路。本研究乃是針對軟性印刷電路板結構進行切割，
其撓性基板如圖 20 所示。在本研究中，利用 CO2 雷射波長(10600nm)與 3 倍頻 Nd:YAG 雷射
（波長：355nm）進行切割實驗。由實驗結果可知，利用 CO2 雷射所切割的軟性印刷電路板
有燒焦的現象產生，其原因歸咎於 CO2 雷射其雷射光斑過大約 150μm、功率過大約 30W，且
針對欲加工之基板 PE 材質會有燒蝕的情況發生。利用 Nd:YAG (UV)雷射則表面無明顯的燒
焦痕跡，且切割一個行程就可將所要加工之圖形完成。若在加工過程中，添加輔助氣體氮氣
(N2)或氬氣(Ar)可將切割所造成之煙霧吹離降低切割道熔渣之殘留，且對聚焦鏡組有保護的作
用產生。切割路徑如圖 21 所示。 
           
圖 20 可撓性印刷電路板        圖 21 可撓性印刷電路板切割路徑       
(e) 機台精度量測與補正 
進給系統精度補正 
本計畫進給系統補正技術，主要利用二維補正技術修正 XY 平台定位精度。為瞭解一維
NC code 
Motion card code 
 14
   
(a) X direction                                   (b) Y direction                 
圖 25 二維與一維定位精度補正比較 
掃瞄頭精度補正 
本計畫同時利用二維補償技術，修正掃瞄頭崎變誤差與雷射聚焦位置精度。就掃瞄系統
而言，雖然此系統可以有效增加鑽孔效率，但此系統常常會伴隨一崎變誤差（如圖 26 所示）
於加工系統之中，而此誤差一般是二維誤差系統，因此本二維誤差補償技術將可有效改善掃
瞄系統之崎變誤差與雷射聚焦位置誤差。藉由本補正技術，將有效改善此掃瞄系統崎變誤差
問題，如圖 27 所示。圖 27(a)為沒有補償時，利用此雷射掃瞄加工系統，在 FR4 材料上加工
一格子狀圖形，此一結果可以明顯看到一桶狀崎變明顯產生在加工結果上。圖 27(b)為利用二
維補償技術修正控制指令，結果明確看到崎變誤差有效被本補正技術改正。 
(a) No distortion (b) pillow shape (c) ballew shape (d) pillow-barrel shape  
圖 26 掃瞄系統崎變誤差種類 
 
(a) Non-compensation 
 
(b) Compensation 
圖 27 雷射加工格子圖案在 FR4 材料上結果 
本補正技術同時可以有效修正雷射鑽孔孔位精度，如圖 28,29 所示。圖 28 為原始雷射鑽
孔孔位精度，其精度範圍介於 0.3mm 之中。圖 29 為利用補正技術加工完成的孔位精度，誤
 16
附錄 
A 發表論文： 
A. 1 Compensating technique of field distorting error for the CO2 laser galvanometric scanning 
drilling machines, International Journal of Machine Tools and Manufacture, 2006.(SCI) 
(accepted) 
 
Compensating technique of Field Distorting Error for the CO2 Laser Galvanometric Scanning 
Drilling Machines 
Ming-Fei Chen, Yu-Pin Chen* 
Department of Mechatronics Engineering, National Changhua University of Education, 
No.1 Jin-De Road, Changhua City 50058, Taiwan 
* Corresponding author 
Tel.: 886-4-7232105 ext 7283; 
Fax: 886-4-7211149. 
E-mail Addresses: chenmf@cc.ncue.edu.tw (M.F. Chen) 
                   s93631002@mail.ncue.edu.tw (Y.P. Chen) 
Abstract 
Laser galvanometric scanning system has been widely used in the laser drilling machines to form the microvias of 
high-density interconnected printed circuit boards (HDI PCBs). Although the galvanometric scanning system can 
increase the speed and efficiency of laser drilling process, it is usually associated with a field distortion error. The 
investigation discusses the field distortion error of a laser scanning system based on a CO2 laser drilling machine and 
provides a method for the correcting this distortion error. The field distortion error is a random error in the laser 
galvanometric scanning system. This irregular error is usually corrected using pre-compensation methods that apply an 
error function. The paper gives a pre-compensation technique to correct the distortion error of scanning image, which 
using the two-dimensional Lagrange polynomials modified the control commands of the galvanometric scanning system. 
The results in this study indicate that the compensation method effectively amended the field distortion and increased 
the accuracy of the positioning of the holes that were drilled using a laser galvanometric scanning drilling machine. The 
positioning errors of drilling holes have reduced from ±0.3mm to ±0.05 mm after error compensation. This 
pre-compensation method could be widely adopted in all of galvanometric scanning system, such as pre-objective and 
post-objective scanning system. 
Keyword: Field distortion error, CO2 drilling machine, Galvanometric scanning technology, Error compensation 
 
 
1. Introduction 
In recent years, laser ablation has commonly been 
utilized in material processing and traditional 
manufacturing technology, and it is often used in 
micromachining techniques because the laser-ablating of 
materials is efficient and precise. A few types of lasers 
have been applied in the laser processing. They include 
the CO2 laser, the Nd-YAG laser, the Ruby laser, the UV 
laser and others. The current trend in the 
microelectronics industry is towards smaller, lighter and 
more powerful electronic products, and electronic circuit 
designers are designing high-density interconnected 
printed circuit boards (HDI PCBs). A report on PCB 
market information, written by Dr. Hayao Nakahara of 
N.T. Information Co. Ltd., 2003, stated that 2001, the 
world PCB output was down by nearly 22-23%. 
However the microvias output was relatively stable, as 
seen above. It is expected to grow by 12% in the next 
few years [1]. Hence, the number of microvias PCB 
products will increase in next the few years, as will the 
amount of equipment used to form the microvias. Nearly 
all microvia are formed by laser drilling, which is usually 
called laservia. The formation of microvias formation 
also includes various steps, including photovia and 
plasmavia. However, the dominant procedure for 
forming microvias is laservia. A few laser drilling 
machines- including the far infrared laser drilling 
machine and the UV drilling machine- are used for 
microvias on HDI PCB. The laser of the far infrared laser 
drilling machine is the CO2 Laser, and that of the UV 
drilling machine is a third harmonic DPSS lasers. 
Recently, the laser process has been used 
extensively in the materials processing. Laservia is the 
most commonly for used to form microvias in the PCB 
industry. It is suitable for the manufacturing of HDI PCB. 
Moreover, increasing the speed of the laser drilling 
machine is very important because the number of 
microvia holes is always increasing. Microvias boards 
have 1.2-1.3 million microvia holes in 4-dielectric layers, 
or approximately 300,000 holes/layer. If the speed of 
laser drilling is only 10,000 holes per minute, then 30 
minutes/layer are required. The associated drilling cost in 
the manufacturing of HDI PCB is very high. Laser 
galvanometric scanning provides an effective solution for 
numerous image display applications, including medical 
imaging, laser display and material processing. The 
speed of formation of microvias exceeds 30,000 holes 
per minute when galvanometric scanning of the laser 
drilling machine is conducted. Although galvanometric 
scanning can increase the efficiency of microvias 
formation, a few problems associated with the laser 
drilling machine must be solved. Jun Xie et al reported a 
 18
image from the most focusing lens is y=f×tanθ, which 
equation holds for lenses with zero distortion. In the 
scanning system, the velocity of the scanned laser spot 
increases in proportion to the tangent of the scan angle. 
However, most laser scanners require a linear scanning 
velocity, and conventional lenses are not viable. The 
special focusing lens produces a linear scanning velocity, 
called an F-theta lens, which produces a linear scanning 
velocity. Hence, the height of the image from the F-theta 
lens becomes y=f×θ. Although an F-theta lens improves 
the problem of scanning velocity, a geometrical 
aberration occurs in the image plane, called the distortion 
error. Section 3.1 presents detailed information of the 
distortion error. 
2.3 Control system 
The setting of various parameters, the changing of 
the laser operating conditions, the compensating for the 
coordinate system and the controlling of the scanner and 
the XY movable table are all controlled using a personal 
computer on the control rack. Additionally, the important 
step in laser drilling is the compensation for the drilling 
coordinates in the CO2 drilling machine by adjusting the 
PCB’s coordinate system before laser drilling. Hence, a 
CCD image processing system, also controlled using a 
personal computer on the control rack, is used in the CO2 
laser drilling machine. 
3. Method for pre-compensation of distortion error 
in galvanometric scanning system 
Recently, the galvanometric scanning system, with a 
general design in a CO2 Laser drilling machine, has 
increased the speed of laser drilling. However, field 
distortion occurs in the galvanometric scanning system 
of the laser drilling machine. Hence, the priority is to 
identify the distortion error to correct it before the 
scanning system in the CO2 laser drilling machine is 
employed. Therefore, correcting the field distortion is a 
major task in relation to a galvanometric scanning 
system and is the main focus of this paper. 
3.1 Distortion error in the galvanometric scanning 
system 
The distortion error does not result in a blurred 
projection image. In the absence of any other aberration, 
distortion is manifest in a misshaping of the image as 
whole, even though each point is sharply focused. Figure 
6 shows a scanning system with F-theta lenses, and it 
indicates the origin of distortion. The laser beam incident 
at an angle on the F-theta lens, passes through it, such 
that a reasonable difference arises between the paraxial 
angle of refraction and the real ray angle of refraction. 
Restated, distortion arises because different areas of the 
lens have different focal lengths and different 
magnifications. The amount of distortion is expressed 
either as a lateral displacement in units of length units or 
as a percentage of the paraxial image height in an image 
plane. It is defined as [4] 
%100×−=
p
p
y
yy
Distortion                               
(1) 
where, y is the height of the image plane and yp is 
the paraxial height. 
The extent of distortion may be positive or negative. 
A few distortions in the galvanometric scanning system, 
including pillow-shaped, barrel-shaped and 
pillow-barrel-shaped image, are all resulted from the 
optical path error, as illustrated in Fig. 7. Although the 
scanning system was supposed to draw a square, the 
actual image was not a square. A scanning system 
suffering with positive distortion deforms a square array, 
as shown in Fig. 7 (b). In such a situation, each image 
point is displaced radially outward from the center, and 
the most distant points move farthest. For negative 
distortion, each point on the image moves radially 
inward toward the center, as shown in Fig. 7(c). Positive 
distortion typically results in a pillow-shaped image in 
the image plane; negative distortion results in a 
barrel-shape. Although the distortion did not affect the 
results of projected image, it was associated with a defect 
aberration and an unacceptable image in the visual 
system. Distortion of the order of 2-3% is typically 
acceptable visual system. 
Most laser galvanometric scanning systems for 
laser drilling machines use a multi-element F-theta lens 
to amend the projected image plane and the scanning 
velocity. In such a case, the distortion represents a great 
error in the scanning system because the multi-element 
lens system greatly increases distortion. Therefore, 
correcting the distortion of the scanning system in a CO2 
laser drilling machine is very important. In a CO2 Laser 
drilling machine, the distortion error is a 
pillow-barrel-shaped distortion of the square image field, 
which is caused by the path of the beam in the scan head 
and by the objective. The control can compensate for this 
field distortion, and the method of compensation is 
presented herein. 
3.2 Method of pre-compensation for field distortion error 
Field distortion errors in a scanning system 
normally consist of systematic errors and random errors 
in the scanning system. A systematic error is defined as 
the manufacturing error and the assembling error. It is a 
repeated in the mechanical systems. Systematic errors of 
a mechanical system, which were usually obtained by the 
theoretical analysis and measurement, can be reduced 
using the compensation techniques. Although the random 
error was not a repeated error, it could also be 
compensated for by predicting errors in the system. 
Accordingly, the error compensation technique is a 
widely accepted method for correcting machine errors, 
and was an effective in precision machine design and 
manufacture. This work discusses pre-compensation 
methods for field-distortion error in scanning systems. 
Methods such as interpolation and curve fitting can be 
used for pre-compensation in a mechanical system and 
for compensation for field distortion, as in this study. 
The pre-compensation technique, which was 
predicts errors using a polynomial determined from 
errors of the mechanical system obtained by the 
measurement, can effectively correct errors of a machine 
system. This investigation utilizes curve fitting in the 
pre-compensation technique. The curve fitting finds a 
polynomial equation that passes through the same points 
as the unknown function. The equation of a third-order 
polynomial can be determined by locating four points. If 
the cubic is ax3+bx2+cx+d, it could write four equations 
involving the unknown coefficients a, b, c and d. 
Although solving these equations yields the polynomial 
equation, doing so is awkward. Therefore, a very 
straightforward approach, Lagrangian polynomial, is 
 20
from the rectangular array holes of a workpiece, which 
are drilled by the laser drilling machine, which procedure 
is also mentioned in this paper. The acrylic plate was 
selected as the compensation specimen because its better 
adsorption in the CO2 laser. The compensation 
algorithms mentioned above was based on CO2 laser 
drilling machines, was developed in the authors’ 
laboratory at the National Changhua University of 
Education. 
The system parameters were scan area is 20×20 mm 
and the distance between holes of 5 mm. The laser was a 
CO2 laser, with a wavelength of 10600 nm and a power 
of 30W. The scanning system was a pre-objective system. 
5×5 grids were established over the scanning field to 
eliminate field distortion and the position error of the 
galvanometric scanning system. The 25 points over the 
scanning field produced a two-dimensional polynomial, 
and the polynomial was integrated into control program 
to adjust the scanning angle of galvos to project the laser 
spots on the defined position. Figure 8(a) shows the 
rectangular array of holes in an acrylic plate formed by 
using CO2 laser drilling- without compensation. The field 
distortion was least for the galvanometric scanning 
system that exhibited a pillow-barrel shaped distortion. 
The two-dimensional polynomial of the correct scanning 
angle was obtained and could be integrated into the 
controller of the galvanometric scanning system to 
reduce the field distortion. Accordingly, the field 
distortion and the position error were amended using the 
pre-compensation method. Figure 9 schematically 
depicts the program for correcting field distortion using a 
personal computer. The procedure for compensating the 
field distortion is as following: 
1. The relationship between the scanning angle and the 
laser spots in the galvanometric scanning system, 
which could project spots onto the defined position, 
could be measured using an image processing system 
that was built in the CO2 Laser drilling machine. The 
image processing system combined a 5X optical 
microscope with a CCD image processing system, 
providing a measurement system with a resolution of 
2 microns. 
2. A two-dimensional polynomial for the correcting 
scanning angle is obtained in Lagrangian as shown in 
Eq. (4). 
3. The compensation program is constructed for a 
personal computer to control the galvanometric 
scanning system, using a two-dimensional 
polynomial to correct the scanning angle and 
eliminate the field distortion and position error of 
spots in the image plane. 
4. A square array of holes on the acrylic plate was 
drilled using the CO2 laser drilling machine, using 
the pre-compensation technique to reduce distortion 
and position errors. 
5. The positions of spots were measured using the 
image processing system build in the CO2 Laser 
drilling machine. 
5. Results and Discussion 
The scanning angle of the galvos was found and the 
two-dimensional compensation polynomial was obtained 
from the correct scanning angle to reduce field distortion 
of the scanning image plane. Therefore, the laser 
galvanometric scanning system could be integrated with 
pre-compensation program in a control system that is 
based on a personal computer. In according to this 
technique, the square array of holes on the acrylic plate 
was drilled using a CO2 laser galvanometric scanning 
system with compensating field distortion, as shown in 
Fig. 8(b). A comparison with Fig. 8(a) indicates that 
pre-compensation for field distortion improves 
processing quality in a laser drilling machine, and the 
field distortion can be reduced effectively by 
compensative methods in the laser galvanometric 
scanning drilling machine.  
The pre-compensation method can correct the 
effects of field distortion as mentioned above. The 
positioning of laser spots on a projected image can also 
be corrected by pre-compensation. The position error of 
spots was measured using a 5X optical microscope 
system with are a resolution of 2 microns, which was 
installed in the laser galvanometric scanning drilling 
machine. Figure 10 displays a human mechanical 
interface (HMI), developed by Borland C++ Builder. In 
order to verify the pre-compensation method can 
effectively reduce the field distortion that resulted by a 
laser galvanometric scanning system, the results of the 
laser marking and the laser drilling are made on the CO2 
laser drilling machine, as show in Figs. 11 and 12, 
respectively. Figure 11 shows a rectangular pattern 
marked on a fiber glass board (FR4), including the 
compensation and non-compensation results. Figure 12 
shows a partial photograph of the grid holes that drilled 
on the FR4 using the galvanometric scanning drilling 
system, including compensation and non-compensation 
results. These results verify that the compensation 
technique can reduce the distortion error effectively. 
The distribution of positioning errors of the holes, 
which were drilled using galvanometric scanning drilling 
on acrylic plates, includes the compensated and 
non-compensated errors as shown in Figs.13 and 14, 
respectively. According to these results, the error range, 
+/- 0.3 mm, used a linear proportion of scanning angle to 
control the galvanometric scanning system, as shown in 
Fig. 13. The result is a positioning error without 
compensation. The range of the compensated positioning 
errors is less than 0.05mm, as shown in Fig. 14. 
Comparing the compensated and non-compensated 
results indicates that the pre-compensating method 
effectively reduces the positioning error of the drilled 
holes. The galvanometric scanning head was usually 
controlled by the voltage, which was supplied by an 
analog output card in a personal computer, and whose 
values were usually obtained by two-dimension 
interpolation as described above. Figure 15 plots the 
result of surface interpolation in MATLAB program, and 
indicates that the pre-compensation procedure used 
opposite voltage values to control the scanning angle and 
to correct the field distortion. Hence, the precision 
position of focusing spots on the projection image could 
be controlled by the pre-compensation method in the 
galvanometric scanning system.  
The results of this experiment verified that the 
pre-compensation method, described in this study, could 
effectively reduce the field distortions in scanning 
images. The method of error compensation is widely 
employed in scanning systems, such as the laser drilling 
machines, the laser marking systems, the laser rapid 
 22
 
Fig. 4 Schematic figure for two-dimension laser 
galvanometric scanning system [4] 
(a) Pre-objective scanning (b) Post-objective scanning
Scan Mirror
Laser beam
focal lens
Laser beam
focal lens
Scan Mirror
f
y
θ
 
Fig. 5 Types of the scanning system. 
Image plane
location
paraxial chief ray
real chief ray distortion
θ
y=f
(positive)
F-theta lens
height
θ
yp
 
Fig. 6 Laser scanning system with an F-theta lens. 
(a) No distortion (b) pillow shape (c) ballew shape (d) pillow-barrel shape  
Fig. 7 Illustration of different distortion in optical system 
 
(a) Non-compensation 
 
(b) Compensation 
Fig. 8 Result of laser drilling on the acrylic material plate 
 
Fig. 9 Flow chart of the compensation for galvanometric 
scanning systems in laser drilling machine 
 
Fig.10 HMI of measurement for positioning accuracy of 
drilling holes which was drilled by a Laser 
galvanometric scanning system 
 
(a) Non-compensation 
 
(b) Compensation 
Fig. 11 Result of laser marking on the fiber glass board 
(FR4). 
1. Beam Entrance 
2. 1st Mirror 
3. X scanner 
4. 2nd Mirror 
5. Y scanner 
6. F-theta Lens 
7. Beam exit 
8. Image field 
 24
A. 2 Study on CAD/CAM technology applied for CO2 laser processing system, Advanced Design 
and Manufacturing for Sustainable Development, Vol 3, pp. 525-528, 2006. (EI) 
 
Study on CAD/CAM Technology Applied for CO2 Laser Processing System 
 
Chen Ming-Fei *, Hsiao Wen-Tse , Hu Chun-Wei  
Department of Mechatronics Engineering, National Changhua University of Education, 
Changhua 50058, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
* Corresponding author 
 
Abstract: The aim of this paper is the development of CAD/CAM technology in the laser cutting machine system. 
The laser cutting system was controlled by PC-Base controller which consists of motion card, I/O card, image 
processing card and personal computer. Its program was developed by Borland C++ Builder and Lex & Yacc. In this 
paper, we were interested in a CAD diagram translating into NC code and it can achieve the laser cutting processing, 
and it was the major work in this research. First, a CAD diagram which is a DXF files would be translated into NC 
code and then generated control commands to drive the laser machine. Then, the translator can generate the tool path 
of laser cutting process form the origin CAD file. Finally, the laser profile cutting in an acrylic plate would be present 
in this paper. 
According to this research, the CAD diagram effectively was translated into a tool path of laser profile cutting 
process. In addition, the method can widely use in the CAD/CAM technology, and it can improve the process writing 
efficiency and dependability of the procedure. 
Keywords: CO2 laser processing system, Lex & Yacc, DXF, NC-code。 
  
1. Introduction 
Along with the high tech industry fast development, likes 
electronic, the photoelectric product demand quantity daily 
promotion, has lead the entire industrial vigorous development. 
As a result of the manufacture technology unceasingly evolution, 
all emphasizes in the nowadays every kind product, likes “light, thin, 
short, small, high performance and low cost”, in order to the high 
quality, high performance and high attachment value, Its system 
regulation equipment will be good badly becomes the key aspect 
which the high tech product will succeed. 
There are many applications for laser processing such as (a) cutting, 
(b) welding, (c) drilling microvias, (d) marking, etc. 
In addition, the processing can be also applied to micro drilling 
of the print circuit board (PCB) in microelectronics. Furthermore, 
the microelectronic device for 3D circuits, the construction of the 
interconnect on-silicon layers with low-k material, can be designed 
with it[1]. In the laser processing, it can be used as laser patterning of 
the ITO glass for thin film transistor liquid crystal display (TFT 
LCD) and plasma display plane (PDP). The traditional electrode 
patterning technology was used as semiconductor manufacturing 
processing. The transparent electrodes are conventionally patterned 
and structured by using photolithography following by wet etching. 
The process consists of five technologies which includes 
(a)photoresist spin coating, (b)optical lithography, (c)developing, 
(d)wet or dry etching, (e)clean (i.e., to removal the photoresist) and 
etc. More does along with the flat plane display size in a big way, 
also excessively high also the price is expensive using the 
semiconductor system regulation equipment manufacture electrode 
cost, therefore may use the laser electrode to take shape the way to 
complete. 
The greater size of flat plane display is higher cost in 
semiconductor processing by electro-patterned. Therefore, to 
improve this disadvantage, it can use the laser patterning is the other 
ways. Rumsby [2] used the Bow tie scanning (BTS) technique on 
large area plasma display panel (PDP) substrates of the indium tin 
oxide (ITO) glass patterning. 
Laser material processing provides more advanced 
manufacturing advantages such as non-contact, without tool wear, 
break of chipping, high-accuracy, high-resolution, high-speed, and 
the few thermal stress. 
In the future, it is a new technology for manufacturing of the 
world. In this paper, we are developing a CAD/CAM integrated 
programming which it can be used in the CO2 laser processing 
systems and other manufacturing systems. 
 
2. Overview of CO2 Laser Processing System 
The main part of this processing system which includes: Laser 
source, optical path, PC-based controller, XY axes linear motor and 
drivers, XY feeding stage, CCD image processing system and the 
mechanism of structure.  
Furthermore, in the high-speed scanning process terms, we have 
to add scan head into the optical paths. Therefore, the processing 
speed cannot be restricted by the feeding speed. 
 
3. Theory of Laser Material Processing 
The major factor in laser manufacturing process is thermal effect 
of the laser. Heat effect utilized by laser processing, so that getting 
rid of frit in the material surface is to take shape processing. Or 
focused on the surface of workpieces with the laser beam, and 
causing objects to take shape changes the working process of the 
material. 
 
3.1 Laser Beam Spot Size 
In the CO2 laser processing system, the factors influence spot 
size including focal length, wavelength and the other parameters. 
The focused spot diameter d can be expressed as: 
 26
we look for it instead of the figure linking to each other on a basis of 
start point of the tools to arrange. 
In the numerical controlling systems, there are components with 
G code, M code, T code and etc. Because of the G code is a 
preparation function which includes G00 to G99, M code is a 
auxiliary function, which includes M00 to M99. 
 
5. Experimental Details 
Fig. 3 illustrates the schematic diagram of the workstation used 
in this study for the CO2 laser micro-machining of acrylic samples. 
Thickness of  the material is 1.5 mm. The laser beam was focused 
onto the sample surface. The laser was used in this work, including a 
CO2 laser operating at 10.6 um wavelength with pulse width 500 ms 
and a repetition rate of 1 kHz. 
The samples were held on to mount the X-Y moveable stage. 
This experiment reveals that profile cutting of the acrylic is 1.5 mm 
thick. 
At first, we design the component profiles of the laser cutting 
process by using AutoCAD software. Schematic illustrates of the 
design specifications is shown in Fig. 4. In this study, a CAD 
diagram which is a DXF files would be translated into NC codes. 
Fig. 5 shows the NC program translation interface. Then, it is also 
generated a control command to drive the laser processing systems. 
The graphical illustration of the procedures of the laser 
manufactured is shown in Fig. 6. 
 
Figure 3. Schematic illustrate of experimental detail 
 
                
(a)                          (b) 
Figure 4. Schematic illustrates of the design specifications. (Unit: 
millimeter) 
 
 
Figure 5. Shows the translate interface 
 
 
Figure 6. workflow of the translate processing. 
 
6. Case Study 
In this paper, the manufacturing of a cutting acrylic was used as 
a case study to illustrate the performance of the DXF files and NC 
tool path translating function of the CO2 laser processing systems.  
First, we set up specifications with the AutoCAD DXF files. 
According to the designed specifications of this model, we utilize 
the program which was developed by our laboratory; an NC 
program for the CO2 laser processing where the model was 
generated. 
The typical acrylic cutting results by using the CO2 laser beam 
are shown in Fig. 7. After cutting profiles, there are the same 
performances with the designed specifications. 
 28
A. 3. Laser direct write patterning technique of indium tin oxide film, 1st International Symposium on Transparent 
Conducting Oxides (TCO 2006), 2006. (accepted) 
 
Laser direct write patterning technique of indium tin oxide film 
Ming-Fei Chen*, Yu-Pin Chen*, Wen-Tse Hsiao*, and Zhi-Peng Gu 
Department of Mechatronics Engineering, National Changhua University of Education, Changhua, 50058, Taiwan 
* Correponding author 
       Address: No.1, Jin-De Road, Changhua City 50058, Taiwan 
       Telephone: +886-4-7232105 ext.7283 
       FAX: +886-4-7211149 
Mail:chenmf@cc.ncue.edu.tw (M.F. Chen) 
Mail: yb2851@gmail.com (Y.P. Chen) 
Mail: s94631003@mail.ncue.edu.tw (W.T. Hsiao) 
Mail:hotlittlesun@hotmail.com (Z.P. Gu) 
Abstract: 
The paper provides a new method, which is produced the circuit pattern of transparent conductive oxide (TCO) films using 
the laser direct writing methods, to replace the traditional photolithography techniques. The circuit pattern of indium tin oxide 
(ITO) films are usually formatted by the photolithography and etching processing, which widely produces circuit trace on the 
oxide conductive films of flat panel display (FPD), smart windows and solar cells. The investigation is interested in circuit 
patterning of glass substrate using the laser direct writing techniques, which is ablated the ITO films by a UV laser materials 
processing system. The UV laser is a third-harmonic Nd: YAG laser with a 355nm of wavelength and the power is 1.0 W. In this 
paper, the ITO films of glass substrate are ablated by the UV laser materials processing system which used the different repetition 
rate and the feeding speeds. The results of laser pattering of ITO films are measured using the optical microscope (OM) and the 
scanning electron microscope (SEM), and it indicates the repetition rate of laser would affect the width of line. 
 
Keywords: laser direct writing, transparent conductive oxide (TCO), indium tin oxide (ITO), flat panel display (FPD). 
 
1. Introduction 
Nowadays, the traditional electrode patterning technology was used as semiconductor manufacturing processing. The 
transparent electrodes are conventionally patterned and structured by using photolithography following by wet etching. Therefore, 
using the wet etching processing needed too much time and costly for this process. 
The advantages of laser processing include the non-contact processing, the without tool wear problem, the break of chipping, 
the high speed, the high-accuracy, the little thermal effect, the small environmental pollution and the flexible production. The 
laser material processing becomes a novel technology in the manufacturing processes of the engineering materials. 
A few applications of laser materials processing have widely ablated the material of the workpiece, include the dicing, the 
cutting, the drilling, the marking, the scribing and the lift-off technique. Two type of laser, include the solid state lasers and the gas 
lasers, are usually adopted using in the material processing system. The solid state laser are usually used the Nd:YAG crystal to 
emit the 1064 nm of wavelength, and it is so-called fundamental laser wavelength of the Nd:YAG laser. In order to generating 
other wavelength of the solid state lasers, the nonlinear optical crystals that include the KH2PO4 (KDP), the KD2PO4 (KD*P), the 
KTiOPO4 (KTP), theβ-BaB2O4 (BBO), LiB3O5 (LBO), the CsB3O5 (CBO), and others usually adjusted the laser wavelength 
[1-3]. In this paper, the third-harmonic Nd:YAG laser that has been decreased the laser wavelength using two LBO crystals could 
generate the 355nm of wavelength. Figure 1 shows a schematic diagram of the laser types versus the laser wavelength. In the 
laser materials processing technology, the absorption of materials is a more important parameter in this procedure. Figure 2 
indicates the relationship between the absorption of materials and laser wavelength, and it also shows the optimal absorption of 
insulating materials is in the region of ultraviolet (UV) and the far infrared (FIR). Although the insulating materials can be ablated 
using UV lasers and FIR lasers, the laser processing usually use the UV laser to ablate the insulating materials due to its small 
spot size and small heat affect zone (HAZ) [4-5]. Therefore, the UV lasers are widely adopted in the micromachining systems, 
and it is used in ablating ITO films in this paper. 
The formation of circuit pattern on the ITO films can be using the laser materials processing techniques. O. Yavas et al. 
 30
Moreover, the 0% of overlapping rate would obtain the non-continuous manufacturing on the workpiece, as shown in Fig. 8 (a). 
Therefore, the feeding speed of XY table and repetition rate of laser should be calculated before the procedure. 
4. Results and discussion 
The experimental specimen is the ITO glass which is produced by Merck Display Technologies Ltd. in Taiwan. The ITO 
film is the 100nm of thickness, the 84% of transmittance, and the 20 Ω/□ of resistance. The ITO glass has been washed using the 
ultrasonic cleaner and is dried the specimen using high-pressure nitrogen before the laser patterning processing. The results of 
laser patterning on ITO glass are measured using OM and SEM. 
Figure 9 shows the result of the UV laser ablate the ITO film of glass substrate which was measured by SEM. The width of 
cutting line is about 20 microns. The repetition rate of laser is 5 kHz and the feeding speed of XY table is 10 mm/sec. In order to 
obtain the main parameter of laser patterning processing, the feeding speed of XY table and the repetition rate have been changed 
in the experiment. Figures 10 and 11 show the results of width of cutting line which used UV laser ablating ITO films with 
different feeding speed and repetition rate. The results indicate the width of cutting line is decreased by increasing the repetition 
rate of laser and feeding speed of XY table. In the Fig. 11, the width of cutting line is increased by the repetition rate of laser, 
because the energy of laser has also increased. Therefore, the influencing parameter of laser patterning is the laser energy. In 
addition, the width of cutting line can be also increased by reducing feeding speed of XY table, because the 
overlapping rate can increase the energy of unit area. 
5. Conclusions 
In this research, we developed a third-harmonic Nd:YAG UV laser processing system and provided a method to ablate ITO 
films of glass substrate. The semiconductor manufacturing technique has usually formed the circuit and widely generates 
electrode patterns on the glass substrate. In the recent year, the laser direct writing techniques have used to etch the photoresist 
and make the circuit of devices. Therefore, the investigation present a laser direct writing method can form the circuit of ITO 
glass and discuss the influencing parameter of laser ablating ITO films of glass substrate. 
In the experiment, the ITO films of glass substrate is ablated using the UV laser which used the different repetition rate of 
laser and feeding speed of XY table. The results shows the repletion rate and feeding speed would be affected the width of 
cutting line. In addition, the overlapping rate would affect the quality of edge.  
Acknowledgement 
The authors would like to thank the National Science Council of the Republic of China, Taiwan, for financially supporting 
this research under Contract No. NSC 94-2212-E-018-002. 
Reference 
[1] C.T. Chen, B.C. Wu, A.D. Jiang, G.M. You, Sci Sinica B28 (1985) 235-243. 
[2] F.C. Zumsteg, J.D. Bierlein, T.E. Gier, Journal of Applied Physics 47 (1976) 4980-4985. 
[3] Y.C. Wu, Sasaki T, Nakai S, Yokotani A, H.G. Tang, C.T. Chen, Applied Physics Letters 62 (1993) 2614-2615. 
[4] Oguz Yavas and Mikio Takai, Journal of Applied Physics 38 (1999) 7131-7134. 
[5] O. Yavas and M. Takai., Journal of Applied Physics 85 (1999) 4207-4212. 
[6] James G. Lunney, Richard R. O’Neill, and Karl Schulmeister., Applied Physics Letters 59 (1991) 647-649. 
[7] J.G. Liu, C.H. Chen, J.S. Zheng and J.Y. Huang, Applied Surface Science, 245 (2005) 155-161. 
[8] D Farson,HW Choi, KR Kim, 6th International Symposium on Laser Precision Microfabrication, Williamsburg VA, U.S.A., April 4-8 2005, 583-588. 
[9] H. J. Booth, Thin Solid Films 453-454 (2004) 450-457. 
[10] O.A. Ghandour, D. Constantinide, R. Sheets, Photonics West Proceedings of SPIE, Sang Jose, CA, U.S.A., Jan 19-25 2002, 90-101. 
[11] William M. Steen, Laser Material Processing, Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg New York, 2001. 
 
Figures and Tables 
 32
 
Fig. 4. Schematic diagram of DPSS system [11]. 
 
 
Fig. 5. Using laser direct writing method to etching ITO thin films [10]. 
 
Fig. 6. Schematic diagram of the laser direct writing 
 
 34
 
Fig. 11. Relationship between the repetition rate and line width 
 
 36
X
Y
Laser Generator
Beam Expander
Aperture
Mirror 1
Galvanometric Scanner
Tablef-theta Lens
Mirror 2
Mirror 3
Mirror 4
Move
Linear Motor
(CO2 Laser)
 
Figure 1: The schematic diagram of the Laser materials 
processing system. 
There are three methods using in laser material 
processing which it include single pulse, percussion and 
trepanning as shown in Fig. 2. Both of single pulse and 
percussion methods usually drill a hole and lithograph 
an image from a mask in materials surface. They have 
high speed procedure for Laser materials processing, 
but it is not a flexible manufacturing techniques. 
Therefore, the complex and flexible workpiece usually 
manufactured by the trepanning methods. In order to 
improve the speed of manufacturing, there is a 
galvanometric scanning system in the optical system of 
Laser material processing systems. However, the 
focusing lens would replaced by the f-theta lens, which 
it could correct the focusing image of scanning system. 
  
(a) Single pulse              (b) Percussion 
 
(c) Trepanning 
Figure 2: The methods of Laser materials processing. 
 
Figure 3: The feature size and accuracy with different 
Laser processing methods. 
Fig. 3 showed the grades of feature size and accuracy of 
workpiece with different Laser processing, and it 
indicated that the trepanning method would provide the 
high accuracy and large feature size in Laser processing. 
In addition to feature size and accuracy, the trepanning 
method could flexibly make the different profile of 
workpiece. Accordingly, developing a CAD/CAM 
system for Laser processing system would be an 
important work. 
Laser irradiation impinging on the surface of materials 
may be absorbed, reflected, transmitted and re-radiated. 
The absorption of materials indicates the ratio of 
absorbed energy in particular irradiation wavelengths 
and is an important parameter for Laser materials 
processing. In general, the materials with high 
coefficient of electric conduction are high reflection 
materials, and almost of metals are 70% to 95% in 
reflection ratio for Laser. In addition, the smooth 
surface is also a high reflection material for Laser beam. 
In order to increasing absorption of materials for Laser 
beam, the texture processing would increase the 
roughness of materials and improve the absorption 
ration of materials. 
3 Data transfer in CAD/CAM system 
Because of the availability of a wide variety of CAD 
system with different characteristics supplied by 
different vendor, proper communication and exchange 
data between these systems has become a significant 
problem. In addition, the data transfer between 
manufacturing system and CAD system has become 
more important in computer-integrated manufacturing 
industry. Hence, the software package for data transfer 
between these systems has developed in recently and 
become more significant work. 
Some of these translators were tailor-made for specific 
industries and some were accepted as standard tools by 
various authorized organizations. Some of these 
standards such as STandard for Exchange of Product 
data (STEP), Data eXchange File (DXF), Product Data 
Exchange Specifications (PDES) and Initial Graphics 
Exchange Specifications (IGES) proved more popular 
with CAD/CAM system vendors and users. The DXF 
standard is widely used in data transfer between 
dissimilar CAD/CAM systems. Especially, the DXF 
data format could provide an exact representation of the 
data in the AutoCAD native file format. In this paper, 
we developed the software transferring from a DXF 
files format to a control code for CO2 Laser processing 
machine system. 
3.1 DXF file format 
A few literature surveys have indicated DXF file is 
more popular and easy to analyze by researches. Auto 
CAD DXF (drawing Interchange Format or Drawing 
Exchange Format) is a CAD data file format, developed 
by Autodesk as their solution for enabling data transfer 
between AutoCAD and other program/ system. DXF 
was originally introduced in 1982 as part of AutoCAD 
1.0, and was intended to provide an exact 
representation of the data in the AutoCAD native file 
format. Afterward this data format usually uses to be 
data interoperability between AutoCAD and other 
program. Hence, the data translator should be able to 
obtain the correct data from the DXF file format. In 
order to transferring DXF file format, the structure of 
DXF file format should be defined in the data translator. 
 38
 
Figure 4: The Galil Terminal. 
 
 
 
 
 
#include <windows.h> 
#include <dmccom.h> 
long rc; 
HANDLEDMC hDmc; 
HWND hWnd; 
int main(void) 
{ 
// Connect to controller number 1 
rc = DMCOpen(1, hWnd, &hDmc); 
if (rc == DMCNOERROR) 
{ 
char szBuffer[64]; 
// Move the X axis 1000 counts 
rc = DMCCommand(hDmc, "PR1000;BGX;", szBuffer, 
sizeof(szBuffer)); 
// Disconnect from controller number 1 as the last action 
rc = DMCClose(hDmc); 
} 
return 0; 
} 
Table 3: The source codes of DMC control command in 
C++ program [9]. 
4 Results and Discussion 
The Human Machine Interface (HMI) of the CO2 Laser 
processing system, as shown in Figure 5, is 
programming using Borland C++ Builder for an 
automatic translation of a DXF file format into DMC 
command code, which can control the XY linear motor 
Table, Z-axis feeding system and CO2 Laser generator. 
The functions of HMI for Laser processing system 
contain system setting and manufacturing procedure, 
such as motion control, home return, re-setting the 
variables, image processing and manufacturing. 
Especially, the DXF file format should translate into 
the DMC command coed or CNC code before 
manufacturing processing. Therefore, the interpretive 
software for DXF-to-DMC command code has 
developed in this paper, which it used BCB and 
Yex&Yacc language to develop on a personal computer. 
Figure 6 showed the interface of CAD-to-CAM 
translator. Besides CNC codes, the translator could 
effectively generate DMC command code from the 
two-dimension drawings and CNC code. 
 
Figure 5: The HMI of the CO2 Laser processing system. 
 
Figure 6: The Interface of CAD-to-CAM. 
In order to verify the translator software, there are two 
examples drawing a two-dimension profile using 
AutoCAD system and then used the software obtain the 
DMC command to incise the profile on the acrylic 
material, as shown in figure 7 and 8. The 
two-dimension profile drew by AutoCAD system and 
then it should save on a DXF file format in the hard 
disk of personal computer. After CAD design, the 
translator could open the DXF file and interpret it to a 
DMC control command code for the CO2 Laser 
processing system. According the results, the 
interpretive software of CAD-to-CAM could effectively 
translate the DXF file format into control command. In 
addition, the software also interpreted the CNC code to 
the DMC control command code. Therefore, the 
translator should be widely used in CAD/CAM system. 
 
(a) AutoCAD drawing. 
