  
 
中、英文摘要及關鍵詞  
（一） 計畫中文摘要。（五百字以內） 
本計劃提出以修飾空間相位之聚焦光束達成深次波長之衰逝波聚焦光點，將作為單層表
面生物分子之光譜探測光源。利用調整遠場入射光之空間相位及偏振，將可改變衰逝波之近
場電磁場分佈，使其達到約 0.1λ 之聚焦點大小。雖然可用奈米粒子或奈米針尖產生奈米光
點，但是相對上其製程與操控技術是不易掌控的；取而代之，使用製程穩定的平面薄膜，除
了可去除奈米粒子或奈米結構所形成之近場扭曲電磁波之效應外，並且將生物分子固定於平
面上使其排列具一致方向，如此生物分子之振動轉動行為較單純，將有利於單一層分子之光
譜檢測。本計劃將以近場光學顯微鏡驗証近場光分佈，並以此聚焦光點來偵測表面生物分子
光譜。發展這個技術除了可應用於探測表面分子光譜之外，亦可應用於深次微米微影製程之
光罩書寫及高密度之光學儲存。 
關鍵詞：次波長聚焦、近場、遠場、衰逝波、分子光譜 
（二） 計畫英文摘要。（五百字以內） 
This plan proposes the method of realizing deep sub-wavelength focusing spot achieved by 
modifying the spatial phase of far-field. This focusing spot will be used to detect the spectrum of 
the monolayer biomolecules on the planar surface of thin film. Taking the advantage of modifying 
spatial phase and polarization of far-field laser beam, the distribution of near-field electromagnetic 
field on surface can be changed and it can achieve to the smallest spot size of about 0.1 wavelengths 
under the reasonable adjustment. Although nano-scale light sources can be produced by 
nanoparticles, quantum dots, or nano-tips, but the technology of nanoparticle (or quantum dots, 
nano-tips) fabrication and manipulation is not easy. On the contrary, using the planar thin film of 
mature and stable fabrication processes, not only the interference of twisted electromagnetic 
near-field of nanostructure can be eliminated, but also after fixing on planar surface the arrangement 
of biomolecules have the consistent direction, thereupon the behavior of molecular vibration is 
purer than that of non-fixed molecules. Thus, fixing biomolecules on planar surface is beneficial to 
analyze the vibrational spectra of the monolayer molecules on surface. This project will confirm the 
near-field distribution of focusing spot by near-field scanning optical microscope (NSOM), and will 
recognize the vibration modes of biomolecules on the surface by collecting its Raman spectrum. 
Developing this technology besides can recognize the vibrational spectra of monolayer molecules 
on surface at sub-micro scale, also might apply to the deep sub-micro lithography of mask writing 
and to the high-dense optical storage.  
Keywords: sub-wavelength focusing, near-field, far-field, evanescent wave, molecular spectrum 
 2 
 
'σ  is the Raman scattered intensity for a single 
molecule ; 'I  is the intensity for the incident light; and 
2a , 2γ are the isotropic average part and the anisotropic 
average part respectively for Placzek’s invariants.  
2
2 2
3 =        (3)
45 4a
γρ γ+  
which value is covered from 0 to 0.75. If 2 0a = , then 
0.75ρ = , the molecular vibration mode called 
“depolarized”, is non-symmetric, like linear- symmetric; 
if 2 0γ = , then 0ρ = , the molecular vibration mode 
called “completely polarized”, like sphere-symmetric; 
and if 2 0a ≠ and 2 0γ ≠ , then 0 0.75ρ< < , the 
molecular vibration mode called “partial polarized”, has 
the vibrational property between non-symmetric and 
complete-symmetric. 
EXPERMENT 
Poly (3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene) (PEDOT) 
nanorods are synthesized via chemical oxidation 
polymerization in reverse (water-in-oil) microemulsions. 
The reverse cylindrical micelles are prepared with 
sodium bis (2-ethylhexyl) sulfosuccinate (AOT) and 
aqueous FeCl3 solution in hexane. The resulting 
orange-colored mixture was gently stirred for 10 min 
followed by addition of EDOT monomer. After 3 h 
under gentle magnetic stirring, the blue/black precipitate 
of PEDOT nanorods was suction filtered and washed 
with copious amounts of methanol. Drying under 
dynamic vacuum for 24 h at 60 °C yielded a navy blue 
powder. A 2.5 wt% PEDOT:PSS ratio 1:1 (w/w) 
dispersed in water and spun on substrates and then dried 
under dynamic vacuum for 10min at room temperature. 
We applied the back-scattering geometry to collect 
the Raman scattered light, which configuration of the 
Raman system is shown as Fig. 1. First, a DPSS (Diode 
Pumping Solid State) laser (50mw@532nm) beam passes 
through a QWP (quarter wave plate) to produce the 
circularly polarized light, and then, the polarization 
direction of incident light is controlled by the polarizer. 
After reflected by notch filter (XNTA532, ASAHI 
SPECTRA), the reflection light is conducted into the 
objective lens (LMPlanFl 50x, OLYMPUS) of the 
microscope (GX-71, OLYMPUS) by a beam splitter, and 
then focused onto the specimen. The scattered light is 
collected by the same objective lens and goes back to the 
notch filter which rejects the Rayleigh scattering. An 
analyzer is used to control the polarization direction of 
the scattered light. Via the focusing lens, the polarized 
scattered light is focused into the entrance slit of the 
spectrometer (TRIAX 320, equipped with a 1200gr/mm 
grating, JOBIN-YVON). Finally, the spectrum is 
detected by the TE-cooling CCD (DU401A-F1, cooling 
temperature : -70。C, ANDOR). 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
 The SEM image indicated that the resulting 
product exclusively consisted of nanorods with lengths 
of greater than 0.4μm. The diameter of the nanorods 
was 100–150 nm (Fig. 2). In addition, the conductivity of 
the PEDOT nanorods was 2.9 S /cm, measured by using 
the four-probe method at room temperature. 
The strongest vibration mode of PEDOT 
nanorods:PSS powder is observed at 1434cm-1, which 
approximates to symmetric C=C stretching, as Fig. 3  
and Table 1 shown. The vibration modes of Raman shifts 
above 1000cm-1 approximate to stretching, in contrast, 
the vibration modes of Raman shifts below 1000cm-1 
approximate to deformation. Investigation on the 
symmetry and optical properties of PEDOT 
nanorods:PSS film by a polarized micro-Raman 
spectrum, as Fig.4 shown. Comparing two Raman peaks 
1105cm-1 and 1268cm-1,corresponding to C-O-C 
deformation and to C=C stretching, respectively, where 
the mode of 1105cm-1 is sensitive to the polarized light, 
but the mode of 1268cm-1 is roughly non-sensitive to the 
polarized light. The depolarization ratios calculated by eq. 
(3) distributed between 0.34-0.37, which means that the 
molecular vibration modes are partial polarized. 
