Note that the capability to discriminate between 
malicious and innocuous manipulations, such as 
compression, in images is required. Moreover, it is 
also important to localize the tampering region in 
images. As shown in Ref. [1], the image 
authentication techniques are applied to the video 
surveillance systems. In this method, a 
pseudorandom number generator with appropriate 
thresholding is used to yield the watermark sequence. 
The camera ID and frame number are used as the 
watermark key for watermarking a specific frame. 
Accompanying with the watermark detection, an 
image denoting the tampered regions of the 
watermarked image can be obtained. Since the video 
frames are usually compressed before transmission, 
the robustness of the watermark to the compression 
issue is critical in this method. On the other hand, the 
watermark embedding is performed in the spatial 
domain rather than in the transform domain. If the 
pixels in the tampered region do not involve with the 
watermark information, it will not be detected. 
Therefore, an alternative for image authentication 
based on blind watermarking is proposed in this 
study. The proposed method adapts a blind 
watermarking technique shown in Ref. [12], which 
embeds watermarks by the use of the 
multiple-threshold wavelet coder (MTWC) [13]} 
adopted with successive  subband quantization. 
Therefore, the watermark can be correctly extracted 
even the watermarked image is compressed. Since the 
watermark is embedded in the transform domain of 
an image, the tampered region is expected to be 
detected more efficiently. Figure 1 shows the block 
diagrams of blind watermark embedding and 
extraction processes. 
 
DWT
Received 
image
Extracted 
watermark
w*(x)
(b)
f 'w(x, y)
Significant 
subband & 
coefficients 
selection
Blind Watermark Extraction
Watermark 
extraction
Watermarked 
image
(a)
DWT
f w(x, y)
IDWT
Original 
image
f(x,y)
Watermark w(x)
Blind Watermark Embedding
Significant 
subband & 
coefficients 
selection
 
Fig. 1 The block diagrams for blind (a) watermark 
embedding and (b) extraction processes. 
 
??????? 
 
In our experimental results, a frame of video 
surveillance sequence shown in Fig. 2(a) is used to 
test the proposed methods. Fig. 2(b) shows the 
tampered image fw*(x,y), in which an extra car is 
inserted comparing with the watermarked image 
shown in Fig. 2(a). By using the proposed sequential 
watermark alignment (SWA) scheme, the watermark 
extracted from the tampered image is compared with 
the correct watermark and all the detected locations 
of the wavelet coefficients are shown in Fig. 2(c). 
Figure 2(d) shows the determined locations of the 
wavelet coefficients in the corresponding subbands to 
signalize the tampered region in image. These 
wavelet coefficients are modified and then are joined 
with other coefficients to be inverse wavelet 
transformed to obtain a revised image fwR(x,y).Figure 
2(e) shows the binarized error image between the 
tampered and the revised images. By using the 
proposed MRG scheme, the determined tamper 
region can be obtained. Figure 2(f) shows that the 
determined region can cover the actual region. The 
coverage and the redundancy ratios are C_r=1.0 and 
R_r=2.04, respectively. Figure 3(a) and 3(d) show 
other two types of tampering in the same test image 
as shown in Fig. 2. Their detected regions and the 
comparisons with actual ones are illustrated in Fig. 
3(b), 3(c), 3(e), and 3(f).The corresponding coverage 
and redundancy ratios are C_r =0.94, R_r =5.57 and 
C_r =0.99, R_r =1.73. According to the simulation 
results, larger areas of the tampered region, such as 
that shown in Figs. 2(b) and 3(d), lead to  better 
localization performance than that shown in Fig. 3(a). 
From the results shown in Figs. 2} and 3, different 
types of modifications can be correctly detected and 
localized in the corresponding regions. Therefore, the 
tampered part in the image can be easily identified 
according to the proposed method. 
   
???????? 
 
    In this project, a blind watermarking scheme has 
been adopted to perform perfect watermark extraction 
in the receiver. The received image was tampered if 
the extracted watermark is distorted. To detect the 
tampering and localize the tampered region in the 
image, we proposed the line-based watermark 
alignment (LWA) and morphological region growing 
(MRG) methods, which can determine the positions 
of the changed pixels in the distorted watermark and 
estimate a range of the tampered region. From the 
simulation results for different cases of tampering, 
the proposed method is verified to correctly perform 
the image authentication and tampering localization. 
 
?????? 
 
[1] F. Bartollini, A. Tefas, M. Barni and I. Pitas, 
“Image Authentication Techniques for Surveillance 
Applications", Proceedings of the IEEE, vol. 89, no. 
10, pp. 1403~1418, Sept. 2001  
[2] A. Tefas and I. Pitas, “Image Authentication and 
Tamper Proofing using Mathematical Morphology," 
European Signal Processing Conference 
(EUSIPCO'2000), Tampere, Finland, vol.3, pp. 
1681~1684, 5-8 Sept. 2000 
[3] C.I. Podilchuk and E.J. Delp, “Digital 
Watermarking: Algorithms and Application," IEEE  
 2
