 ii 
account in the determination of zerotree and the quantization in wavelet coefficients, where the 
property of space and frequency localization in the wavelet domain is utilized. In [8], the 
parent-child relationship in EZW is modified such that one parent may have four up to nine 
children. Besides, symbols NEG and IZ are, respectively, taken out in the LL band and HL1, LH1, 
HH1 bands, for saving some more bits in the coding process. In [9], instead of four symbols as 
used in the EZW, eight symbols are employed in the dominant pass. And the subordinate and 
refine passes are replaced by a fixed residual value transmission. In [10], two symbols are used in 
the coding of significance map. The isolated zero coefficients are changed and considered as 
significant and the location of isolated zero coefficients are recorded. Since only one bit is required 
to represent these two symbols, better compression performance results. In [11], note that different 
wavelet transforms are suitable for different type of images. The approach uses two measures, 
smoothness measure and uniformity measure, to select the best transform among a group of 
candidate transforms in the coding process. 
In this report, a simple but effective approach is proposed to improve the performance of 
EZW. This report is organized as follows: In Section 2, the EZW is briefly reviewed. Then the 
proposed approach, TEZW (Truncated EZW), is described in Section 3. In Section 4, simulations 
are provided to justify the proposed TEZW. Finally, conclusion is made in Section 5. 
 
2. Review of EZW 
In this section, the EZW is briefly reviewed. For details, one may consult [1]. Basically, the 
EZW consists of six stages: (i) wavelet decomposition, (ii) bit-plane quantization, (iii) dominant 
pass, (iv) subordinate pass, (v) refine pass, and (vi) lossless compression. The coding block 
diagram of EZW is depicted in Figure 1. 
Given input image O, the coding process of EZW is described in the following. In Stage (i), 
2-D wavelet transform are performed on image O to generate different subbands of quadtree 
structure. Figure 2 shows a three-scale wavelet decomposition where the quadtree structure of 
parent-child relationship is indicated as well. 
In Stage (ii), the bit-plane quantization is applied. For a given threshold kT , each coefficient 
),( jiw  is divided into two categories: significant if kTjiw ≥),( ; insignificant otherwise. In Stage 
(iii), the dominant pass classifies the quantized coefficients into four classes: ZTR (zero-tree root), 
IZ (isolated zero), POS (positive significant), and NEG (negative significant). The flowchart for 
the dominant pass is given in Figure 3. Besides, the dominant pass codes the quantized coefficients 
in the Z-scan order, as shown in Figure 4, for correct decoding. In Stage (iv) and Stage (v), the 
 iv 
4. Simulation Results 
In this section, two examples are provided to justify the proposed TEZW coding approach. 
Moreover, the comparison between the EZW and the TEZW in terms of bit rate are made in the 
simulation. Two test images are 256256×  Lena and Cameraman. The three-scale Harr wavelet 
transform is applied to decompose these images. For the convenience of comparison, no lossless 
compression scheme is used in all simulations. Based on the conditions just described, the 
simulation results for images Lena and Cameraman are, respectively, listed in Tables 3 and 4 for 
81 ≤≤ k . In Tables 3 and 4, TEZWBR  and TEZWBR  denote bit rates used in the EZW and in the TEZW, 
respectively. Besides, TEZWEZW BRBRBR −=∆ . In the calculation of TEZWBR , the number of bits 
required for kL  has been put into account. In the simulation, it requires 16 bits for each bit-plane 
quantization. That is, the overhead requires 16×N  bits where N is the total number of bit-plane 
quantization. In the simulation, 8=N . 
The simulation results indicate that the proposed TEZW is able to reduce the bit rate, without 
any loss in PSNR, when compared with the EZW. The amount of bit rate reduction ranges from 
0.05 to 0.10 or so. Nevertheless, some interesting observations can be found from Tables 3 and 4. 
For both images Lena and Cameraman, BR∆  increases slowly as k increases. For cases 1=k  and 
2=k , the bit rate are saved a lot. But for cases with larger k it is not so evident. It implies that 
much more ZTR symbols are truncated for 1=k  and 2=k  than other cases. This is reasonable 
since coefficients in higher scale generally have higher energy than that in the lower scale. 
Therefore, for a higher threshold more ZTR symbols results at the end of kD  and vice versa. 
 
5. Conclusions 
In this report, the truncated EZW (TEZW) is proposed. Note that ZTR symbols in the 
dominant pass have no contribution in PSNR but provide the location information of coefficients 
to the decoder. Thus, the ZTR symbols at the end of kD  are truncated in the TEZW and the 
truncated kD  is denoted as kD . For correct decoding, the length of kD , kL , is included in the 
beginning of kD . By this simple modification, the coding performance of the EZW is improved. In 
the provided examples, the bit rate is reduced by 0.05 up to 0.1 in the TEZW when compared with 
the EZW. 
 
 
 
 vi 
 
 
Figure 1.  The coding process of EZW 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2.  Three-scale wavelet decomposition with parent-child relationship 
 
 
w(i,j) ≥ Tk
w(i,j) > 0 Is w(i,j) a descendant of 
ZTR
Is
w(i,j) with a 
significant 
descendants
 ?
No
Ignore
POS NEG IZ ZTR
w(i,j)
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
No
 
 
Figure 3.  The flowchart of the dominant pass 
 
 
 
LH2 HH2 
HL2 
HL1 
HH1 LH1 
LH3 HH3 
LL3 HL3 
 viii 
 
 
Table 1.  The EZW coding result for 41 ≤≤ k  
D1: PNIZPZZZZIZZZZZZZPZZ 
S1: 1 0 1 0 
A1: φ (empty) 
D2: IZNPZZZZZZZZ 
S2: 1 0 
A2: 1 0 0 1 
D3: IIIIIPPNPPNZZNNPZPZZNZZZZZZZZPZZZPZZZZZZZZZPZZZZZZZZZZZZ 
S3: 0 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 0 0 
A3: 1 0 0 1 1 1 
D4: IIIIIIIZIZINIIIIPZZPZPPZPNPZNZZZZZPZPNPPPPZZZZZPZPZZZPNP 
S4: 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 
A4: 1 1 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 
 
 
 
Table 2.  The kD  in TEZW for 41 ≤≤ k  
 
D1: PNIZPZZZZIZZZZZZZP 
D2: IZNP 
D3: IIIIIPPNPPNZZNNPZPZZNZZZZZZZZPZZZPZZZZZZZZZP 
D4: IIIIIIIZIZINIIIIPZZPZPPZPNPZNZZZZZPZPNPPPPZZZZZPZPZZZPNP 
 
 
