 2
Effect of annealing temperatures on the secondary recrystallization of 
extruded PM2000 steel bar 
 
 
Key words: EBSD, ODS alloys, PM 2000, secondary recrystallization. 
 
Abstract 
The ferritic Oxide Dispersion-Strengthened (ODS) alloy PM2000 is an ideal candidate for high 
temperature applications as it contains uniform nano-oxide dispersoids, which act as pinning 
points to obstruct dislocation and grain boundary motion and therefore impart excellent creep 
resistance. The development of the microstructure during recrystallization of ODS alloys has 
been discussed by a number of authors but the precise mechanism of secondary recrystallization 
still remains uncertain. Hence this work is aimed at investigating the recrystallization behaviour 
of extruded PM2000 bar for different annealing temperatures, using electron backscatter 
diffraction (EBSD) in particular, to determine grain orientations, grain boundary misorientation 
angles, etc. The results show that the as-extruded bar microstructure comprises both low angle 
grain boundaries pinned by oxide particles and high angle boundaries which will have inherent 
boundary mobility to allow boundary migration. Additionally, dynamical recrystallization was 
found in the outer region of the non-heat-treated PM2000 bar, which suggested that deformation 
heterogeneities can be introduced during thermomechanical processing which enhance the 
nucleation of recrystallization. Subsequent heat treatments promote and stimulate secondary 
recrystallization, giving rise to large grains with few subgrain boundaries. 
 
摘要:  
鐵基氧化物散佈強化合金(PM2000)是理想的材料應用於高溫環境.主要是材料本身包含了
均勻分佈的的奈米強化氧化物.這些強化相有足夠的pinning 的效果阻礙差排及晶界的移
動, 因而提供極佳的抗潛變能力. 氧化散佈強化合金再結晶顯微結構的發展已被不同的作
者廣泛的討論,但二次再結晶的機制仍不完整. 因此,此研究目的在探討不同退火溫度下,
擠製成形PM2000棒材的再結晶行為藉由EBSD觀察其晶粒方向性,晶界角等. 此研究結果顯
示未退火之擠製成形PM2000棒材顯微組織是由氧化物pinning低晶界角及可移動高晶界角
所組成. 此外,也觀察到動力再結晶現象發生於未退火PM2000棒材之外側.此現象說明了異
質變形的現象易產生於熱機過程.此現象促進再結晶成核的發生. 後續的熱處理更進一步
提升並促使二再結晶的發生.  
 
Introduction 
PM2000 is an iron-based Oxide Dispersion-Strengthened (ODS) alloy designed for high 
temperature structural material applications, such as advanced power plants (Baker, 1995; Baker 
& Munroe, 1997; Stoloff, 1998). ODS alloys contain nano-scale, uniformly dispersed Y-Al oxide 
particles in a Fe-Cr-Al matrix, which inhibit dislocation movement and therefore retard the 
recovery and recrystallization process (Murakami et al., 1994; Starr et al., 1994). Hence these 
alloys have excellent creep resistance at elevated temperatures (Whittenberger, 1981). 
Additionally, the excellent high temperature oxidation (Ramanarayanan et al., 1988; Quadakkers 
& Bongartz, 1994) and corrosion resistance of ferritic ODS alloys results from the formation of a 
stable, adherent Al2O3 scale which forms during the heat treatments.  
 
The microstructure in consolidated, mechanically-alloyed materials is on a fine scale, and both 
the oxide dispersion and the grain boundary junctions themselves may behave as pinning points 
for grain boundaries, which suggests that a large activation energy may be needed for recovery 
and recrystallization (Mino et al., 1992; Bhadeshia, 1997; Capdevila & Bhadeshia, 2001). A high 
 4
1100ºC and 1250ºC for 1 hour in laboratory air. In this study, electron backscattering diffraction 
(EBSD) was used to investigate the grain orientation, the grain boundary misorientation angle, 
texture and recrystallization behaviour of extruded PM2000 bar with different annealing 
temperatures. A CamScan X500 Field Emission Gun Scanning Electron Microscope (FEG-SEM) 
equipped with EBSD was used for microstructural characterisation of the PM2000 bar. Step sizes 
for the EBSD mapping were in the range of 0.05 – 1 µm, depending on the magnification and 
intended resolution level. All crystallographic orientation data were collected from electron 
backscatter patterns and processed using the software package CHANNEL 5. The quoted grain 
boundary misorientation angles are the smallest rotation angles, which are compatible with the 
symmetry elements of the cubic system. 
 
Results and Discussion 
As-extruded state 
Figure 1 shows the microstructure of the as-extruded bar of PM2000 in a longitudinal section. In 
the central region of the bar, the SEM channelling contrast image, Figure 1a, shows a fine-scale, 
elongated grain structure of maximum dimensions ~ 1µm. The EBSD orientation map, Figure 1b, 
also exhibits distinct grains and substructures and varied grain orientations highlighted with 
different colours. The pole figures shown in Figure 1d suggest that there is some deformation 
texture due to the extrusion operation. Indeed, some authors report a strong <110> fibre texture 
after extrusion of PM2000 rod (Montealegre et al. 2000), but this is less pronounced in the 
present case. The grain boundary misorientation angle map obtained by high-resolution EBSD 
reveals important details of the substructure, as shown in Figure 1c. The high energy, high angle 
boundaries, are decorated with pink lines (for misorientations >20º) and blue lines 
(misorientations between 11º and 20º), although a more detailed analysis shows that the high 
angle boundaries are most commonly found with an angular misorientation in the range 40º to 
55º. The substructure is characterized by low angle boundaries (green lines: misorientation 6º -
10º and yellow lines: misorientation 2º -5º) where subgrains are formed by an array of 
dislocations. At higher deformation temperatures, more recovery occurs during the deformation 
and therefore, in some cases, the thermomechanical processing can lead to dynamic recovery. 
 
In this study, the as-received PM2000 bar is unlikely to have undergone a totally uniform 
deformation during the hot extrusion processing since the surface and the inside of the bar are 
likely to have been at different temperatures. For example, when the outer surface of the bar is in 
contact with the cooler extrusion die, the temperature may drop significantly and generate a 
larger deformation near the surface. Any inhomogeneity of stored energy would then affect the 
nucleation of recrystallization. Figure 2a shows the outer region of the PM 2000 bar in a 
longitudinal section and the area of interest which was selected for EBSD mapping. The EBSD 
orientation map, Figure 2b, shows some large grains ~ 20µm in size which are coloured pink and 
green in the middle region of the selected area. However, the grain angle boundary map, Figure 
2c, also indicates that the area with larger grains contains numerous subgrains separated by low 
angle grain boundaries (below 10º misorientation). This result may imply that dynamical 
recrystallization occurred as large deformation heterogeneities were introduced in the outer 
region of the bar during the processing which enhanced the nucleation of recrystallization.  
 
 6
Annealing at 900ºC for 1hour   
The as-extruded PM2000 bar was further heat-treated to 900ºC for 1 hour in laboratory air. The 
SEM channelling contrast image, Figure 3a, shows the cross section of the PM2000 bar. A few 
recrystallized grains had started to form at the outer region of the bar. The size of the secondary 
recrystallized grains is from ~ 50 µm to ~ 200 µm and much greater than that of the dynamical 
recrystallized grains which formed during extrusion. This implies that after further heat treatment 
the large stored energy created in the outer region of the bar during thermomechanical processing 
provides a large driving force for secondary recrystallization. Thus, the deformation structure is 
important in determining the recrystallization behaviour during subsequent annealing. 
 
The migration of low angle and high angle boundaries plays a crucial role in the annealed 
PM2000 bar during the recovery or nucleation of recrystallization. Figures 3b-c show EBSD 
mapping in the region close to a large recrystallized grain. A fine-equiaxed grain structure (~ 
1µm) indicates that only recovery had taken place. The recovery process is strongly influenced 
by subgrain boundary migration. Small oxide particles can interact with the low angle boundaries 
and affect the shape of the subgrains during recovery, since low angle grain boundaries are likely 
to migrate through the movement of dislocations by climb or glide during recovery. On the other 
hand, high angle boundary migration is usually connected to thermally activated atomic jumps 
during or after recrystallization. In this case, it might not be possible to cause the migration of 
high angle boundaries, at lower annealing temperatures, due to the large activation energy 
needed to overcome the pinning effects of the oxide particles.  
 
 
Fig. 3. The microstructure of the extruded PM2000 bar after annealing at 900ºC in the cross 
section a) an SEM channelling contrast image, and EBSD mapping in the outer region of the bar 
b) an SEM channelling contrast image, c) grain orientation, and d) grain boundary misorientation 
maps.  
Figures 4a and 4b show EBSD maps in the longitudinal section of the PM2000 bar after 
annealing at 900ºC, which has a similar microstructure to that of the as-extruded state. This 
confirms that the annealing process leads primarily to a change of subgrain structure during the 
recovery process driven by the stored energy of the deformed state in the middle region of the 
 8
distributed in the PM2000 bar, they tend to align parallel to the extrusion direction and influence 
the growth of the highly elongated grains, following secondary recrystallization. 
 
EBSD grain orientation and grain boundary misorientation angle maps, Figures 6a and 6b, also 
reveal the details of microstructure of the annealed PM2000 bar which indicate that a coarser 
grain structure develops after a higher temperature anneal. The average grain size increases 
slightly from ~0.9 µm in the as-extruded state to ~1.0 µm after annealing at 1100ºC. The grain 
boundaries also tend to be bowed since the grain boundary junctions provide pinning points for 
the small grains. The pole figures indicate a less strongly textured grain orientation distribution, 
as show in Figure 6c. 
 
Fig. 5. The microstructure of the extruded PM2000 bar after annealing at 1100ºC in the cross 
section, a) an SEM channelling contrast image, b) grain orientation, and c) grain boundary 
misorientation angle maps. 
 
Fig. 6.  The microstructure of the extruded PM2000 bar after annealing at 1100ºC in the 
longitudinal section a) an SEM channelling contrast image, b) grain orientation map, c) grain 
boundary misorientation angle map, and d) pole figures  
 10
Conclusions 
The results present in this work lead us to conclude that oxide particles have a large effect on the 
microstructure developed during deformation, and this in turn affects the recrystallization 
behaviour. Dynamical recrystallization occurred in the outer region of the non-heat-treated 
PM2000 bar, suggesting that deformation heterogeneities can be introduced during 
thermomechanical processing which encourage the nucleation of recrystallization. Further high 
temperature heat treatments can promote and stimulate secondary recrystallization. Additionally, 
the as-extruded bar microstructure comprises both low angle grain boundaries pinned by oxide 
particles, while the high angle boundaries have sufficient energy to allow boundary migration. 
The secondary recrystallization process is an important method for producing large grained 
structures with improved creep resistance at elevated temperatures. 
 
References 
Baker, I. (1995) A review of the mechanical properties of B2 compounds. Mater. Sci. Eng. A 193, 
1-13. 
Baker, I. & Munroe, P.R. (1997) Mechanical properties of FeAl. Int. Mater. Rev. 42, 181-205. 
Bhadeshia, H.K.D.H. (1997) Recrystallisation of practical mechanically alloyed iron-base and 
nickel-base superalloys. Mater. Sci. Eng. A 223, 64-77. 
Capdevila, C. & Bhadeshia, H. K. D. H. (2001) Manufacturing and microstructural evolution of 
mechanuically alloyed oxide dispersion strengthened superalloys. Adv. Eng. Mater. 3, 647-
656. 
Chou, T.S. & Bhadeshia, H.K.D.H. (1993) Grain control in mechanically alloyed oxide 
dispersion strengthened MA 957 steel. Mater. Sci. Technol. 9, 890-897. 
Hayama, A.O.F., Sandim, H.R.Z. & Lins, J.F. (2004) Annealing behavior of the ODS nickel-
based superalloy PM 1000. Mater. Sci. Eng. A 371, 198-209. 
Jaeger, D.M. (1994) The Development of microstructure and its influence on stress rupture 
failure in iron based ODS alloys by mechanical alloying. PhD Thesis, The University of 
Liverpool, UK. 
Mino, K., Harada, H., Bhadeshia, H.K.D.H. & Yamazaki, M. (1992) Mechanically alloyed ODS 
steel & Ni-base superalloys - A study of directional recrystallisatin using DSC. Mater. Sci. 
Forum 88–90, 213-220. 
Montealegre, M. A., González-Carrasco, J. L., Morris-Muñoz, M. A., Chao, J. & Morris, D. G. 
(2000) The high temperature oxidation behaviour of an ODS FeAl alloy, Intermetallics, 8, 
439-446 
Mujahid, M. & Martin, J.W. (1994) Development of microstructure of high grain aspect ratio 
during zone annealing of oxide dispersion strengthened superalloys. Mater. Sci. Technol. 10, 
703-710. 
Murakami, K., Mino, K., Harada, H. & Bhadeshia, H. K. D. H. (1994) Discussion of the 
distribution of dispersoid phases in the extruded ODS superalloy MA-957. Metall. Trans. A 
25, 652-653. 
Quadakkers, W.J. & Bongartz, K. (1994) The prediction of breakaway oxidation for alumina 
forming ODS alloys using oxidation. Mater. Corros. 45, 232–41. 
Ramanarayanan, T.A., Ayer, R., Petkovicluton, R. & Leta, D.P. (1988) The influence of yttrium 
on oxide scale growth and adherence. Oxid. Met. 29, 445-472.   
Sandim, H.R.Z., Hayama, A.O.F. & Raabe, D. (2006) Recrystallization of the ODS superalloy 
PM-1000. Mater. Sci. Eng. A 430, 172-178. 
Sha, W. & Bhadeshia, H.K.D.H. (1994) Characterization of mechanically alloyed oxide 
dispersion-strengthened Nickel-base superalloy MA760. Metall. Trans. 25A, 705-714.  
 1
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
計畫編號 NSC 97-2218-E-214 -007 -  
計畫名稱 高性能奈米結構合金應用於先進能源之特性分析 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
陳俊良 
義守大學材料科學與工程學系 
會議時間地點 August 25-29, 2009, MARITIM Hotel Berlin, Germany 
會議名稱 
THERMEC 2009 (International Conference on PROCESSING 
& MANUFACTURING OF ADVANCED MATERIALS Processing, 
Fabrication, Properties, Applications)  
發表論文題目 
Effect of Strain Heterogeneity on the Recrystallization 
Behavior of an Oxide Dispersion Strengthened Ferritic Alloy 
 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
此次參加其 8/24 當天晚上先至會場報到, 領取相關文件及資料, 並
繳交口頭報告之 ppt 電子檔(如圖一). THERMEC 2009 國際研討會於
柏林舉行, 此會議為每年舉辦一次之大型會議, 參加人數達 1000 人
以上, 來是世界 30 幾個以上不同的國家, 會議中主要發表相關的學
術研究成果在材料之製程, 特性及應用等方面. 此外, 會議中並邀
請著名的學者, 針對近幾年先進材料的發展, 未來的趨勢及研究成
果進行演說. 這些包括在製程, 顯微結構分析, 理論模擬,及應用等
方面. 演講內容除提供創新及不同之研究思考模式,並有助於筆者在
研究上改進及創新.  
 
 3
 
圖二 筆者於上台報告開始 
 
 
圖三筆者於上台報告進行中 
二、 與會心得 
於論文發表會期間，筆者與 The University of Manchester 的 Dr. 
Soran Bosca 討論有關高溫材料的相關問題, 並商談可行之國際合作
計畫(如圖四)， 
