ii
Abstract
Cubic equation of state (CEoS) requires critical temperature (Tc), critical
pressure (Pc) and alpha (α) function for all components including polymers before
it can be used for the prediction of phase behavior and thermodynamic properties
for the system. For the non-polymers or conventional components, Tc, Pc and α
usually are available in databanks. However, this is not the case for polymers
since their critical point is not measurable and they lack vapor pressure for the
derivation of the αfunction. As a result, the task of finding CEoS critical
parameters as well as the αfunction for polymers becomes extremely challenging
in the case of polymeric systems. Using only the liquid density data of pure
polymer, a rigorous, universal, thermodynamically consistent, but simple
methodology is developed in this work for the accurate prediction of the critical
temperature, the critical pressure and theαfunction for pure polymer for use in all
type of cubic equations of state. The proposed methodology extends the
application of cubic equations of state to polymer systems in a very simple fashion.
Keywords: polymer, critical temperature, critical pressure, alpha (α) function,
critical constants, cubic, equation of state, CEoS.
iv
Contents
Page No.
List of Tables v
1. Introduction 1
2. Methodology of Developing CEoS Parameters for Pure Polymer) 4
3. Procedures to Find CEoS Parameters a and b for Pure Polymer 9
(Including Results and Discussion)
4. Conclusions 15
5. Nomenclature 16
6. Abbreviations 16
7. Greek letters 16
8. Subscripts 16
9. Superscripts 17
10. Acknowledgments 17
11. Literature Cited 17
12.計畫成果自評 23
11. Introduction
Accurate modeling of polymer manufacturing processes requires
thermodynamic models which are able to deal with phase equilibria with
large size differences between polymer and solvent molecules and strong
deviations from ideal behavior over wide ranges of operating conditions.
In reality, polymer systems contain polymer and solvent components. The
phase equilibrium in polymer/solvent systems is solved by equating the
fugacities of each component in system at equilibrium. When we deal with
polymer systems, polymer cubic equations of state have to perform
accurately for polymers as well as for solvent components. Our recent
efforts1-10 toward the development of a unified excess Helmholtz energy (AE)
mixing rule and a new cubic equation of state TST (Twu-Sim-Tassone) for
highly non-ideal and associated systems in predicting vapor-liquid equilibria
(VLE) have been highly successful. The advanced cubic equation of state
has also been successfully extended to the prediction of solid-liquid
equilibria (SLE)11. At this time, we intend to extend the advanced cubic
equation of state to polymer system. So that the cubic equation of state
model is able to describe systems ranging from mixtures of simple
hydrocarbons, to highly non-ideal mixtures of organic chemicals and water,
to solid-liquid equilibria, then to polymer/solvent systems over a broad range
of temperatures and pressures in a consistent and unified framework.
There are two parameters a and b in the cubic equation of state to be
determined. Generally there are two ways to evaluate them. One is to fit
the parameters to experimental data, usually the vapor pressure and liquid
density. The other is to derive the parameters from the critical constraints.
Since cubic equations of state do not represent PVT behavior well,
particularly near the critical region, the prediction of liquid densities from a
cubic equation of state produces large errors. This is one of the inherent
limitations of any cubic equation of state. Consequently, the major
drawback of forcing the equation-of-state parameters to fit the liquid density
not only fails to satisfy the critical constraints, but also sacrifices the ability
of the prediction of more desired K-value property from an equation of state.
Furthermore, this procedure leads to an over estimation of critical
temperature and critical pressure and has a detrimental effect on the
calculation of the derived thermodynamic properties such as enthalpy and
entropy which depend on derivative ( / ) V T P for their values. Since the
enthalpy prediction is used to calculate heat duties, the result from this
3parameters a and b are both temperature independent. This method ignores
the critical constraints and the temperature dependence αfunction. As
mentioned earlier, this method will sacrifice the ability of phase equilibrium
prediction from the equation of state. Therefore, it will not be surprised to
find that the method results in large vapor pressures, which leads to the
erroneous prediction of finite polymer solubility in the vapor phase. In
addition, the error of predicted pure polymer volume at pressures higher than
zero increased up to 15-20%16. Orbey and Sandler15 tried to avoid the
prediction of finite polymer solubility in the vapor phase by assuming a very
low fixed vapor pressure 10-7 MPa to pure polymer and then fitted the
parameters a and b to this fixed vapor pressure and the densities of the
glassy polymers which are assumed to be the“liquid”molar densities. Again,
this method ignores the critical constraints and the temperature dependence
αfunction too. Orbey et al.17 adopted a mix of Orbey-Sandler15 and
Kontogeorgis14 methods. They divided their method into two steps: the
first step satisfied isofugacity constraint, but their second step ignored
isofugacity restraint. These two steps apparently are inconsistent with each
other. The final empirical form of their parameters for pure polymer is a
quite complicate function, a function of degree of polymerization,
mass-based polymer specific volume, polydispersity index and
number-average molecular weight. Since the functions of the parameters
are so complicate that it is very difficult for engineers to apply their
functions to the polymer system. Kalospiro and Tassios16 made the
parameter b to be temperature dependent by introducing a parameter called
thermal expansion coefficient. After the b parameter was calculated, they
fitted the parameter a to the experimental volume of the polymer at zero
pressure at different temperatures. The resulting a parameter is temperature
dependent in terms of three empirical parameters. Since the parameter b of
Kalospiro-Tassios method is temperature dependent, it has been observed
that any temperature dependence whatsoever in the co-volume term of van
der Waals type equations will result in anomalies in the predicted
thermodynamic properties of fluids at extremely high pressures. It was not
surprised that Orbey et al.18 discarded their complicated functions developed
in their previous work and proposed another way to estimate the critical
constants for polymer as a function of degree of polymerization, the critical
temperature and pressure of monomer, segment molecular weight and
number average molecular weight of polymer. Unfortunately, the estimate
fails because their correlations will predict the critical temperature of
5ccc PTRa /05070.47
22 (2)
ccc PTRb /7407400.0 (3)
9629620.cZ (4)
where subscript c denotes the critical point. It is worth noting that the
values of Zc from the SRK and PR equations are both larger than 0.3,
whereas that from the TST equation is slightly below it and is closer to the
true value.
Eq.(1) can be rewritten in general form as:
)wbv()ubv(
a
bv
RT
=P



(5)
where the constants u and w, which are equation-of-state-dependent, are u=3
and w=-0.5 for the TST equation.
At a given temperature and pressure, the liquid and vapor volumes can be
calculated from eq.(5). However, at low pressure, the liquid volumes are
adequately assumed to be independent of the pressure since the liquid
volume is not sensitive to the variation of pressure. The liquid volume vL
of the pure polymer is then proposed to be solved from the cubic equation of
state by neglecting the vapor pressure of the polymer and selecting the
smaller root:






 



 



 


 



 
2
1
2
*
*
*
*
*
*
* 4
2
1
b
a
uw
b
a
wuwu
b
a
v L (6)
where v*=v/b in eq.(6) is the reduced liquid volume at zero pressure.
Eq.(6) represents the analytical solution of the cubic equation of state
for liquid density at zero pressure for temperature up to normal boiling point.
The parameters a* and b* in eq.(6) are defined as:
22/* TRPaa  (7)
RTPbb /* (8)
The equation-of-state parameter a is generally expressed in terms of a
temperature dependence alpha () function as the following,
caa = (9)
7








S
V
S
L
P
f
ln
P
f
ln (16)
where PS is the saturated pressure. At the saturated condition, the system
pressure P is the saturated pressure PS.
At zero or very low saturated pressure, the saturated vapor fugacity
coefficient is unity. Eq.(16) becomes
 01 







 ln
P
f
ln
P
f
ln
S
V
S
L
(17)
Substituting eq.(14) into eq.(17) results in
0ln
)(
)ln(ln
*
*
**
*
*









uv
wv
b
a
uw
1
1vb1
L
L
L (18)
Eqs.(6) and (18) are the working equations to derive the CEoS parameters
a and b for pure polymer to extend the equation for application to polymer
system. Noting that a* and b* in eqs.(6) and (18) are associated with eqs.(2)
and (3), which mean the critical constraints are applied to a* and b*. The b
parameter derived from our proposed method of using zero-pressure volume
equation is temperature independent. Eq.(6) is to use liquid density of
polymer in zero-pressure equation of state to derive the CEoS parameters a
and b for pure polymer. Most of the methods proposed in literature belong
to this type, except the critical constraints are not applied to a and b.
Eq.(18) is the newly developed methodology to use liquid density in the
equality of pure polymer fugacities in the liquid and vapor for the polymer
species at zero pressure to derive the CEoS parameters a and b for pure
polymer. One of the important advantages of this methodology is that the
parameters derived from this methodology will avoid any prediction of finite
polymer solubility in the vapor phase.
Although the liquid densities predicted from CEoS are badly in error, the
fugacity predicted from the cubic equation of state for the liquid and vapor
phases is quite accurate. Consequently, using the equality of pure polymer
fugacities in the liquid and vapor at zero pressure is expected to give
accurate estimate for the parameters needed in the cubic equation of state.
On the other hand, using liquid density of polymer in zero-pressure volume
equation will be expected to create some problems in the prediction of phase
9Rackett equation and Tr=T/Tc is the reduced temperature. The value of ZRA
is unique to each component and its value is determined from the saturated
liquid density data of the component and can be found in many literatures.
The methodology developed by Twu and Chan19 offers a convenient way
to select any reference temperature for the volume correction. Twu and
Chan19 pointed out that the accuracy of volume translation depends primarily
on the selected reference temperature, not the reference component. They
found that volume correction at T*=0.5 is accurate in correcting the liquid
volume prediction from the cubic equation of state and will be used in this
work.
If T*=0.5 is picked, we have
 82034.1RA
r
* Z,v
P
RT
c 5.0Ts
c
c
CEOS 



  (22)
After finding the volume correction c from eq.(22), the CEoS saturated
liquid volume, vs,CEoS, can be calculated from eq.(19) by adding the volume
correction c to the given the experimental saturated liquid volume, vs,exp. This
value of vs,CEoS can then be used in eqs.(6) or (18) to find the parameter a
and b for the polymer.
3. Procedures to Find CEoS Parameters a and b for Pure Polymer
There are two methods to be performed in this work. One is to use
liquid density of polymer in zero-pressure equation of state to derive the
CEoS parameters a and b for pure polymer. The other is to use liquid
density in the equality of pure polymer fugacities in the liquid and vapor for
the polymer species at zero pressure to derive the CEoS parameters a and b
for pure polymer. The calculated results from these two methods will be
compared with theαfunction derived from the vapor pressure data. Based
on the comparison results, the successful method will be selected for use in
the derivation of the CEoS parameters a and b for pure polymer.
A long-chain hydrocarbon polymer n-Eicosane (C20H42) is used as
example here to test both methods. The critical temperature, critical
pressure and Rackett parameter of n-Eicosane from DIPPR18 are 768.00 K,
11.60 bar and 0.2329, respectively. The liquid density data of n-Eicosane at
the saturated vapor pressure also from DIPPR18 are given in Table 1. For
the purpose of testing methods, the given critical temperature, critical
11
described above for the first method, except replacing eq.(6) by eq.(18).
The results of the calculated (T) function from eq.(18) are shown in Table
2b.
To evaluate these two developed methodologies, the derived(T) function
from liquid density data using eqs.(6) and (18) will be compared with that
from the vapor pressure data. As stated before, the accurate (T) function
should be determined from the vapor pressures of the system of interest to
guarantee the accurate prediction of phase behavior. If the (T) function
predicted from our developed methodology using the liquid density data can
reproduce the result from the vapor pressures, our developed methodology
will then be confirmed. The results of the (T) function derived from
vapor pressures are shown in Tables 2a and 2b for comparison purpose.
Examining the results, we are not surprised to find that the (T) function
derived from the method of equation 6, the zero-pressure liquid volume
equation, is significantly different from that of equation 18, the equality of
fugacities in the liquid and vapor at zero pressure. As shown in Tables 2a
and 2b, the (T) value from equation 6 is about twice larger than that from
equation 18. Since the (T) function derived from the vapor pressures is
accurate, the result from equation 6 is compared with that from vapor
pressures. The average absolute deviation percent (AAD%) of the(T) value
derived from equation 6 is as high as 91.06%.
The result of large deviation in the (T) values from equation 6 is the
evidence to show the inherent limitations of the cubic equation of state in the
predicting liquid density. As mentioned before, the major drawback of
forcing the equation-of-state parameters to fit the liquid density not only
fails to satisfy the critical constraints, but also sacrifices the ability of the
prediction of more desired K-value property from an equation of state. The
huge deviation in the(T) values will affect seriously the phase equilibrium
and thermodynamic property prediction.
On the other hand, it is quite interesting to observe the predicted (T)
values from eq.(18) as shown in Table 2b. These (T) values derived
from the liquid density data by imposing the equality of fugacities in the
liquid and vapor at zero pressure give very accurate results. They are
almost exactly the same as those from the vapor pressure data. The AAD%
of the (T) value from equation 18 is only 0.12%. This result proves that
the (T) function can also be derived from the liquid density data if the
13
fixed value of 10-6 bar.
3) Assume initial values for the three unknowns Tc, Pc and L.
4) Determine the Rackett parameter ZRA from eq.(21) using the experimental
liquid volumes of pure polymer.
5) Calculate the volume correction c at T*=0.5 from eq.(22).
6) The CEoS saturated liquid volume, vs,CEoS, is then calculated from eq.(19)
by adding the volume correction c to the given the experimental saturated
liquid volume, vs,exp. Again, vL will be used to represent vs,CEoS for the
simplification of notation. The value of vL is the corrected experimental
saturated liquid volume.
7) The value of b* is computed from eq.(11) using the fixed saturated vapor
pressure f 10-6 bar.
8) The value of the(T) function is computed from eq.(24).
9) The value of a * is computed from eq.(10) using the fixed saturated vapor
pressure f 10-6 bar.
10) Using the values of a * and b* in eq.(18) to solve for the CEoS liquid
volume v*L.
11) Convert the calculated reduced form v*L from step 10 to a dimensional
volume vL by using eq.(23). The value of vL calculated in this step is
the calculated liquid volume.
12) Repeat this procedure for other two liquid density data.
13) Calculation is iterated until the calculated liquid volumes v*L from step
11 match the given data from step 6 for all three liquid volumes.
The derived critical temperature (Tc), critical pressure (Pc) and L
parameter from liquid density data for n-Eicosane are reported in Table 3a.
The calculated(T) values from the derived Tc and L are shown in Table 3b.
As shown in Table 3b, the values of(T) from two methods (one uses liquid
density data and the other uses vapor pressures) are very close. The slight
difference between them is insignificant. The minor difference comes from
the use of different saturated vapor pressure. When the (T) is derived
15
)/7407400.0( ,, segcsegc PTRrb (31)
The number of segments per molecule r is calculated from eq.(25).
After giving the number of segments r, there are three unknowns (Tc,seg, Pc,seg
and L seg parameter) in equations 18, 24, 30 and 31. The procedures to find
these three unknowns for segment are the same as those described in the
previous case for polymer molecule. We continue to use n-Eicosane
(C20H42) as example, but the number of segments r is set to be 2 in this case.
The derived segment critical temperature (Tc,seg), segment critical pressure
(Pc,seg) and segment Lseg parameter from liquid density data of n-Eicosane are
reported in Table 4. The critical temperature and critical pressure of
n-Decane (C10H22) are also shown in Table 4 for reference.
Before discussing the result shown in Table 4, we should be aware that 2
molecules of n-Decane will not simply form one molecule of n-Eicosane
because the number of hydrogen atom in n-Eicosane (C20H42) is simply not
twice of that of n-Decane (C10H22). We will not expect the values of critical
constants of n-Eicosane to be divided by a factor of 2 to become the critical
constants of the segment either. However, we expect the segment critical
temperature will be smaller than that of the polymer molecule and the
segment critical pressure will be larger than that of the polymer molecule.
Examining the result in Table 4, they are indeed in the correct trend. It is
quite interesting to note that the values of critical temperature and critical
pressure for both segment and n-Decane are quite close. Using these
segment parameters or the molecular parameters will give the same result
and avoid any prediction of finite polymer solubility in the vapor phase.
4. Conclusions
A thermodynamically consistent method of finding the equation of state
parameters a and b for polymers is required for the application of a cubic
equation of state to polymer system. Although polymer lacks vapor
pressure data, the liquid density data are available for polymers. A rigorous,
universal, and thermodynamically consistent methodology has been
developed for the accurate prediction of critical temperature, critical pressure
and alpha (α) function for pure polymer using only the liquid density data of
pure polymer. We demonstrate that forcing the equation-of-state
parameters to fit the liquid density not only fails to satisfy the critical
constraints, but also results in a huge deviation in the (T) function, which
will affect seriously the vapor pressure and phase behavior predictions for
17
seg = segment
9. Superscripts
L = liquid phase or parameter in eq.(24)
V = vapor phase
s = saturated property
* = reduced property
10. Acknowledgements
We are thankful for the financial support of the National Science Council
of Taiwan for the Project No. NSC97-2221-E-165-001.
11. Literature Cited
(1) Twu, C. H.; Sim, W. D.; Tassone, V. A Versatile Liquid Activity
Model for SRK, PR and A New Cubic Equation of State TST. Fluid Phase
Equilib. 2002, 194-197, 385-399.
(2) Twu, C.H.; Sim, W. D.; Tassone, V. An Extension of CEOS/AE
Zero-Pressure Mixing Rule for An Optimum Two-parameter Cubic Equation
of State. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2002, 41, 931-937.
(3) Twu, C. H.; Sim, W. D.; Tassone, V. Liquid Activity Coefficient Model
for CEOS/AE Mixing Rules. Fluid Phase Equilib. 2001, 183-184, 65-74
(4) Twu, C.H.; Tilton, B; Bluck, D. The Strength and Limitations of
Equation of State Models and Mixing Rules. Presented at the 1999 Spring
National Meeting in Houston, TX, March 14-18, 1999.
(5) Twu, C.H.; Coon, J.E.; Bluck, D.; Tilton, B. CEOS/AE Mixing Rules
from Infinite Pressure to Zero Pressure and then to No Reference Pressure.
Fluid Phase Equilib. 1999, 158-160, 271-281.
(6) Twu, C.H.; Coon, J.E.; Bluck, D.; Tilton, B. Rowland, M. Connection
Between Zero-pressure Mixing Rules and Infinite-pressure Mixing Rules.
Fluid Phase Equilib. 1998, 153, 39-44.
(7) Twu, C.H.; Coon, J.E.; Bluck, D. Comparison of the Peng-Robinson
and Soave-Redlich-Kwong Equations of State Using a New
Zero-Pressure-Based Mixing Rule for the Prediction of High Pressure and
High Temperature Phase Equilibria. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1998, 37,
1580-1585.
(8) Twu, C.H.; Coon, J.E.; Bluck, D. A Zero-pressure Cubic Equation of
19
Models. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1998, 37, 1567-1573.
(20) T.E. Daubert, R.P. Danner, H.M. Sibul, C.C. Stebbins, J.L. Oscarson,
R.L. Rowley, W.V. Wilding, M.E. Adams, T.L. Marshall, N.A. Zundel,
DIPPR® Data Compilation of Pure Compound Properties, Project 801
Sponsor Release, January 2001, Design Institute for Physical Property Data,
AIChE, New York, NY.
(21) Twu, C.H.; Chan, H.S. Rigorously Universal Methodology of Volume
Translation for Cubic Equations of State. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2009,
48(12), 5901-5906.
(22) Spencer, C.F.; Danner, R.P. Improved Equation for Prediction of
Saturated Liquid Density. J. Chem. Eng. Data. 1972, 17, 236-241.
21
Table 2a
Comparison of the Derived(T) Values from Using Liquid Density Data of
n-Eicosane in Equation 6 with those from n-Eicosane Vapor Pressure Data
(T) from (T) from Liquid Density
T (K) Vapor Pressure Data Data Using Equation 6 Devi%
310.00 2.4830 5.7910 133.23
320.00 2.4260 4.4700 84.25
330.00 2.3714 3.6921 55.69
AAD% 91.06
Table 2b
Comparison of the Derived (T) Values from Using Liquid Density Data of
n-Eicosane in Equation 18 with those from n-Eicosane Vapor Pressure Data
(T) from (T) from Liquid Density
T (K) Vapor Pressure Data Data Using Equation 18 Devi%
310.00 2.4830 2.4863 0.13
320.00 2.4260 2.4239 -0.09
330.00 2.3714 2.3680 -0.14
AAD% 0.12
23
12. 計畫成果自評
本研究計畫為期三年，第一年研究計畫(96/8/1-97/7/31/)作者對
立體狀態方程式提出了體積轉移方法論的革新思維，在體積轉移技術開
發的領域內，解決了三十多年以來此等立體狀態方程式所存在的問題。
這篇革新的體積轉移方法論的論文，已在美國第一流的化工科學期刊發
表了(“Rigorously Universal Methodology of Volume Translation for
Cubic Equations of State.” Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2009, 48(12),
5901-5906)。由於第一年關鍵性的研究成果才使得第二年研究計畫對高
分子聚合物系統的關鍵問題得以有重大的進展突破。
第二年研究計畫(97/8/1-98/7/31/)作者對高分子聚合物系統在學
術界和工業界至今還未能解決的問題，也就是如何導出聚合物的臨界溫
度(Tc)、臨界壓力(Pc) 和阿爾法(α)函數這項極富挑戰性的研究，提出
一個嚴謹的、一體適用的、熱力學上一致性的、但又簡單的方法論來準
確預測聚合物的臨界溫度、臨界壓力和阿爾法(α)函數。所開發出嚴密
精確的方法，將立體狀態方程式以非常簡單的方式成功擴展應用于高分
子聚合物系統。這篇高分子聚合物的研究論文已寫好了，準備提出到期
刊 發 表 (“Rigorously Universal Methodology for Predicting Critical
Temperature and Pressure and α Function for Polymer”, to be submitted to
Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. for publication)。
過去這二年，本研究計畫完成的內容與原計畫相符程度為百分之一
百，但所達成的目標卻遠遠超出原計畫預期達成的目標。這次所提出準
確預測聚合物的臨界溫度、臨界壓力和阿爾法(α)函數的方法論，不僅
解決了二十多年以來這項極富挑戰性的研究，而且預期能精確地預測高
分子聚合物系統的相平衡和該系統的熱力學性質(第三年的研究計
畫)。對整個高分子聚合物工程程序可得到最優化的設計。作者多年來
在這方面的研究成果，加上本研究計畫所完成的萬能嚴謹的立體狀態方
程式體積轉移方法論與準確預測聚合物的臨界溫度、臨界壓力和阿爾法
(α)函數的方法論，在高分子聚合物技術開發的領域內，解決了多年以
