 
 
  
of modern electronic systems.  It has always been 
difficult to obtain an estimate of field failures in 
terms of how many solder joint fatigue failures are 
caused by thermal cycling and how many are caused 
by vibration.  One of the more quoted values dates 
back to Steinberg [1988] where it was estimated that 
80% are caused by thermal issues and 20% caused by 
some form of vibration or shock.  Regardless, 
modern engineers recognize that electronic products 
are now being used in more and more severe 
environments and their environmental limits will be 
continually tested in new applications.  In fact, there 
is only a limited amount of published research on 
solder joint reliability under vibration for any 
component or package style.   
 
In this paper we will focus on the more 
common types of BGAs, which have been used 
extensively in telecommunications, military, and 
aircraft electronics as well as commercial personal 
portable electronics.  If time and money were not an 
issue, one would use a general-purpose finite element 
analysis (FEA) to determine the dynamic response of 
the printed wiring board (PWB) in the vibration 
environment.  The value of the critical stress in the 
critical solder ball, in the critical BGA component 
would then be determined.  Knowing the critical 
stress, one could then estimate the fatigue life of the 
solder ball using a fatigue damage model.  Once 
implemented in software, i.e. ANSYS, Design of 
Experimental (DOE) and ANOVA, the entire fatigue 
life assessment is anticipated to be executed by an 
average engineer in real time and take only minutes 
to generate accurate results. 
 
 The Global-Local approach to improve fatigue 
life calculation can be done for any assessment 
technique that relies upon an empirical type life 
calculation model such as Steinberg’s empirical 
model.  The currently available Steinberg’s model 
for evaluating PWB and their solder attaches uses a 
vibration fatigue life model which is basically an 
empirical model.  The problem with the model, 
since it is empirical, is that it must be calibrated for 
new component styles and new materials as they 
become available from the various component 
makers.  Such calibration efforts are time 
consuming and require expensive experiments.  The 
research presented in this paper attempts to move in a 
direction to improve the current empirical model.  
The major improvement is due to breaking up the 
current Steinberg’s empirical model into a separate 
stress analysis model and a separate fatigue damage 
model.  The current empirical model does not 
calculate a stress, but rather a fictitious damage 
parameter that is only loosely related to stress.  The 
calculation of this fictitious damage parameter only 
considers the overall package size and considers no 
other material or geometric parameters of the 
particular package.  The approach taken in this 
paper calculates an actual stress in the critical solder 
joint and considers all package geometry and material 
details.  This new approach conducts a true stress 
analysis, where the previous approach only considers 
package size and style.  By breaking up the analysis 
model into a true stress analysis followed by a 
damage analysis, one should be able to directly 
investigate and predict the influence of new 
component families (geometries) and new materials.  
The previous model required the new calibration 
factors to be developed after experimental data 
became available. 
 
 
三、研究方法 
 
This paper describes the general approach used 
for determining the fatigue life of a BGA component 
in a random vibration environment.  This approach 
involves global and local modeling to ultimately 
determine the critical stress in the critical attachment 
in a BGA component as shown in Figure 1. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Complete Global and Local Model 
Approach 
 
 
Global Modeling 
The new life assessment approach for BGA 
components in a random vibration environment 
involves a global – local type of analysis.  The 
purpose of the global model is to determine the 
overall or global response of the PWB.  The global 
model must be able to give boundary condition 
loading for a detailed stress analysis in the local 
component model.  This loading needs to be 
available for any BGA component of interest on the 
PWB.  From the physics of the problem, it is the 
PWB curvature in the region of the component of 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5:  Frequency Domain 
 
When conducting a fatigue damage estimation 
and life prediction with a time history various 
cycle-counting methods are used to reduce the 
random data into blocks of similar amplitude cycles.  
A time history or even load blocks from a cycle 
counting method is difficult to directly use in either 
vibration testing, vibration simulation with finite 
element modeling, or even when writing qualification 
or product specifications. Typically in each of these 
situations it is easier to work within the frequency 
domain primarily because of the ease of specifying 
the vibration environment in the frequency domain.  
The power spectral density (PSD) is the most 
commonly used function to describe a random 
vibration environment in the frequency domain.  
PSD describes how the power (or variance) of a time 
series is distributed with frequency.  Since most 
products are designed for a random vibration 
environment that has been characterized with 
acceleration PSD curve, the approach developed in 
this paper will use the acceleration PSD curve as an 
input for analysis purposes.  This does not exclude 
an environment that has been characterized with an 
acceleration time history, since the time history can 
always be easily converted into an acceleration PSD 
curve.   
 
 
Probability and Statistics 
 
rmsG  
When the mean ( μ ) of the random variable 
( X ) is zero, the standard deviation (σ ) is equal to 
the root mean square of the random variable ( rmsX ): 
 
rmsXXEXE ==−= )()( 222 μσ   (1) 
 
where )( 2XE is the expected value of the random 
variable squared.  In random vibration environments 
under a constant velocity condition, the mean 
acceleration is zero.  Thus, the standard deviation of 
the acceleration G  is equal to the root mean square 
of the acceleration: 
 
rmsG G=σ        (2) 
 
In the random vibration when talking about the 
square root of the area under the acceleration PSD 
curve, the term rmsG  was used to express the root 
mean square of the random vibration acceleration in 
units of g or gravity.  The rmsG  value is a very 
useful amplitude measurement that indicates the 
variability of the acceleration.  Unfortunately in 
random vibration, engineers commonly use the term 
rmsG  in two distinctly different ways measuring two 
distinctly different quantities.  When talking about 
the square root of the area under the acceleration PSD 
curve, the rmsG  value is a statistic over the entire 
vibration spectrum from the lowest measured 
frequencies up to the highest measured frequencies.  
Similarly engineers can also talk about the response 
of a PWB.  A structure’s response is a function of 
the vibration level at or near the structure’s natural 
frequencies.  Vibrations not near the structures 
natural frequencies have little influence on the 
structures dynamic motion.  Thus engineers 
commonly also use the statistic rmsG , to describe the 
random vibration acceleration level at the PWB’s 
natural frequency.  One statistic is a measure of the 
random vibration over the entire frequency spectrum; 
the other is a measure of the random vibration at a 
particular frequency.  Both are root mean square 
acceleration amplitude statistics, but they are two 
completely different measurements.  Unfortunately 
this naturally leads to erroneous interpretations and 
misunderstandings.  As an example one can have a 
random vibration environment with a very large 
rmsG  level when talking about the complete 
frequency spectrum.  A high rmsG  value can easily 
occur if the vibration environment has been measured 
out to and includes some high frequencies.  
Remember that the rmsG  measurement over the 
entire vibration frequency spectrum is the square root 
of the area under the acceleration PSD curve.  The 
PSD curve is typically plotted in log-log space, so the 
area under the high frequency portion of the curve 
contributes more to the rmsG  than the low 
frequency region.  But the PWB is influenced most 
by the vibration levels near its natural frequency.  If 
there is very little input near the PWB’s natural 
frequency, the high rmsG  measurement that 
represents the entire frequency spectrum is somewhat 
meaningless and has little correlation to the response 
of the PWB. 
 
Resonance 
at 72 Hz 
Resonance 
at 411 Hz 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8: Plate for Bending Moment and Curvature 
Relationship 
 
ρ
ν
1
 )(12
2
2
3
≅∂
∂=
−−=
x
dK
MM
Eh
K
xx
yyxxxx
    (3) 
 
where K = curvature; M = moment along edge length; 
E = elastic moment; ν = Poisson’s ratio; h = plate 
thickness; d = the out of plane plate displacement;  
ρ= radius of curvature. 
 
 
Linear Damage Superposition with a 
Normal Probability Distribution 
 
At each particular frequency of interest, the random 
vibration environment can be considered to be 
composed of an infinite series of harmonic 
excitations, of the same frequency, but each having 
amplitude whose probability of occurring is defined 
by the normal distribution.  The principle of linear 
damage superposition, or the Miner’s rule, simply 
states: 
 
∑
=
=+++=
m
i i
i
N
n
N
n
N
n
N
nRatioDamage
13
3
2
2
1
1 L   (4)  
 
where Ni =number of cycles to failure when subjected 
only to load amplitude level i and in = number of 
cycles at the amplitude level i .  Note that  
 
innii ftftn α⋅⋅=⋅=       (5) 
 
where it = time at the amplitude level i  in sec; 
nf = natural frequency of PWB in cycles/sec; t = 
total time at a particular amplitude level i; iα = 
percentage of time at the amplitude level i.  By 
combining Equations (3) and (4) the Damage Ratio 
can be written as: 
 
∑
=
⋅⋅=
⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡ +++⋅⋅=
m
i i
i
n
n
N
ft
NNN
ft
RatioDamage
1
3
3
2
2
1
1 ......
 
α
ααα
     (6) 
 
Rearrangement of the Basquin power law fatigue 
damage model gives: 
 
b
i
i
CN σ=          (7) 
 
where iN  is the number of cycles to failure; iσ  is 
the stress amplitude that the harmonic load applies in 
the critical region of the component that is being 
analyzed and ; b  and C  are material constants.  It 
is reasonable to assume that the resultant stress 
amplitude in the damage model is directly 
proportional to the random vibration amplitude at the 
frequency of interest.  Thus if the acceleration 
amplitude is a normal distribution, then the stress 
amplitude is also normally distributed.   
 
Figure 9 is a representation of the normal stress 
amplitude distribution with mean = 0, and standard 
deviation = rmsσ . 
 
The probability of a particular amplitude (Z) 
occurring between amplitude ( ) β⋅−= 11 mz  and 
β⋅= mz2  is simply the area under the standard 
normal curve as shown in Figure 9 and where m  is 
an integer and β  is a width.  The width β  is 
introduced because we will be talking about the 
probability of a particular stress amplitude between 
β⋅m  and ( ) β⋅−1m .  This width β  will be 
shrunk in a later numerical calculation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
fundamentally sound stress analysis.  Since a new 
assessment is desired, it is recognized that the final 
model must be simplified along the way.  The goal 
is to retain as much accuracy and physical insight as 
possible while retaining computation efficiency.  
Using global modeling, the dynamics response of the 
PWB will be determined.  This global model will 
give us the accurate curvature, which in turn can 
easily be converted into the accurate bending moment 
executed at specific locations of interest.  This 
accurate moment is then fed into a local stress 
analysis for accurate assessment of fatigue life 
prediction for particular components. 
 
 
Basquin High Cycle Fatigue Power Law 
Model 
 
Once the critical solder ball stress has been 
determined, a damage model is required to calculate 
the fatigue life.  The expected life of a solder ball in 
a random vibration environment easily exceeds 
100,000 cycles.  For perspective purposes, a typical 
PWB natural frequency is on the order of 100 Hz; 
therefore, 100,000 cycles will be reached in 1,000 
seconds or less than 17 minutes.  Thus the fatigue 
failure will be in the region known as High Cycle 
Fatigue.  High cycle fatigue is driven by elastic 
stresses. 
 
The goal of this paper is not to develop a new 
fatigue damage model, but to use the simple Basquin 
power law relation for high cycle fatigue damage 
simulations.  Basquin power law model is a very 
simple model; and yet it has been well accepted in the 
fatigue community as a simple law that captures the 
primary features of high cycle fatigue.  The power 
law states:  
 
CNb =⋅σ        (18) 
 
where σ  is the critical solder joint stress, N  is the 
total number of cycles to failure, b is the fatigue 
exponent, and C is a constant.  Both b and C  are 
considered to be material constants.  Commonly 
high cycle fatigue data is presented on 
a NS − diagram, which is simply a plot of the stress 
amplitude ( S ) versus the number of cycles to failure 
( N ).  A power law plots as a straight line in a 
log-log space.  The Basquin power law is often 
plotted or visualized as a straight line on a log-log 
plot of a NS − diagram as shown in Figure 10. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 10: NS − Curves 
 
 
Figure 10 is such a NS − diagram and the slope of 
the straight line in the diagram is
b
1− as shown in the 
following equation: 
 
CN
b
loglog1log +−=σ      (19) 
 
In this paper the solder fatigue exponent b  will be 
assumed to have the value of 6.4.   
 
 
四、結果與討論 
 
Figure 11 and Figure 12 compare the predicted cycles 
to failure to the experimentally measured time to 
failure for the new new assessment model and the 
existing Steinberg’s empirical equation.  The 
horizontal axis is the measured experimented life, and 
the vertical axis is the predicted life.  Figure 11 
shows our assessment predicted life while Figure 12 
shows the results from the current Steinberg’s 
empirical equation.  If the predicted life agrees 
exactly with the experiment life, everything would lie 
on a straight line with slope equal to 1.  Errors can 
occur during either the vibration testing, vibration life 
assessment or modeling.  When dealing with fatigue, 
one must be aware of natural scatter in any fatigue 
data.  In addition to the natural scatter due to fatigue, 
one must be also conscious of potential biasing 
problems due to the test setup.  Equally one must be 
aware of potential problems with the vibration 
simulation including issues with geometric, or 
material detail input information, and characterization 
of the vibration environment itself.  The error bands 
of +2x, -2x, +4x, and –4x are also plotted in these 
figures to help gage the accuracy of the results. 
 
 
   
1N
N log
σ log
1σ
2σ
Equation) s(Basquin'
Constant=Nbσ
2N  
