 - 2 - 
where s is the observed number of PPIs among the subunits, and the fraction of nodes 
in the largest connected cluster, l, so-called connectedness, of a protein complex is 
defined by,  
N
M 1+
=l                                                     (2) 
where M is the largest distance of the largest connected cluster obtained by the Floyd-
Warshall shortest path algorithm. For M equals to zero, l is set to zero. PPI data are 
obtained from the BioGrid database [19]. 
Sequence similarity of protein complex subunits 
An all-against-all pairwise sequence alignment is performed by using the BLAST 
program. Output files reported by the BLAST program for the whole human 
complexes are parsed, and the average of the percentage of identity and similarity 
values for each complex is computed. The average of the sequence identity of a 
complex C, IC, is defined by, 
å
Î<-
=
Cji
ijC INN
I
)1(
2
                                          (3) 
where Iij denotes the sequence identity percentage reported by BLAST, i and j are 
labels (i = 1, … N-1) which denote the complex subunits, and C denotes one of the 
human protein complexes.  
It is also noted that special care is required for complexes consisting of repeated 
subunits. Let D denote a complex composed of n and k distinct and repeated subunits 
respectively, i.e. D = {A, …..N, a1, …. ak}, where a1, …. and ak are repeated 
subunits. For the complex D, the sequence identity percentage, I, received 
contributions from Icross and Irepeated, which are defined by 
å
=
=
=
k
ni
i
cross II
,...1
,....1
a
a                                                (4) 
and Irepeated equals to k(k-1)/2. The average of the sequence identity of D is given by 
][1
,..22
repeatedcross
Nji
ijkND IIIC
I ++= å
=<
+                              (5) 
The same argument can be generalized for more than one type of repeated subunits. In 
order to demonstrate the statistical significance of the BLAST results, a randomize 
version of the protein complexes is performed, in which subunits are randomly 
assigned to each complex, while keeping the total number of protein complexes, 
subunits, and the number of subunits within each complex the same as the original. 
The randomized results are compared with the raw results. 
Results 
Interaction topology of protein complex subunit 
Our results showed that around 15% (Figure 1) of the whole human protein complex 
has a density of interaction of over 90%, and the other 85% of complexes account for 
other r values. It is also a surprise that close to 60% (BOND data) or 40% (MIPS data) 
of protein complexes have r values less than 10%. In other words, quite a significant 
number of complexes do not have PPI among their subunits. These results suggested 
that algorithms based on the assumption that complexes are composed of highly PPI 
dense regions can only predict a limited numbers of complexes. 
 - 4 - 
prediction method, COACH [20] infers protein complexes using graph clustering 
techniques. When comparing with other existing protein complex prediction methods, 
COACH claim to achieve the highest F-measure due to its balanced precision and 
recall. 
To test the performance, the BioGrid human PPI data is used as an input for COACH.  
COACH predicts 542 complexes. The predicted results are compared with the MIPS 
data, which consists of 1818 complexes. It is found that COACH achieved a F-
measure value of 0.377.  
Here, we introduce a more restrict definition, the Jaccard coefficient (JC). It is used to 
rank the overall perform of COACH on predicting individual complex. JC of sets A 
and B is defined by, 
||
||
BA
BAJC
È
Ç
=
 
where || BA Ç  and || BA È  denote the cardinality of BA Ç  and BAÈ  respectively. 
It is noticed that JC lies between 0 and 1. For example, A = {a, b, c} and B = {b, c, d}, 
then JC(A,B) = 2/4 = 0.50. Given the 542 complexes predicted by COACH, each one 
of them is compared with the 1818 MIPS complexes, then, a JC value is computed. 
Among these JC values, we kept the largest one. The whole process repeated another 
541 times, and we obtained an average JC value of 0.247.  
Discussion  
Two topological parameters, density of PPI and connectedness, are defined to test 
whether protein complex are found in PPI dense region or not. The present data 
indicated that interactive dense regions represent protein complexes in up to 20% of 
cases. A rather large proportion of protein complexes have a lower density of PPI and 
connectedness. It is conjectured that in prediction approaches based on the assumption 
that complexes are composed of highly PPI dense regions, connectedness can predict 
a rather limited numbers of the complexes. Also, approaches making use of the 
sequence identity can identify complexes of a size less than 13 with reasonable 
evidence. 
Several approaches have been developed for protein complex prediction, such as: (1) 
using graph theory to study dense protein-protein interaction regions [16-18], (2) 
based on experimental data, such as tandem mass spectrometry, (3) the core 
attachment approach [9], and (4) heterogeneity data integration [21-25]. All of these 
approaches have certain limitations for they consider the only the static, non-
biochemical properties of a protein complex.  
We suggest computing variety aspects of protein complex properties, i.e. static as well 
as the physiochemical properties, to describe protein complexes. These attributes 
include, mRNA expression data, amino acid composition, length of protein subunits, 
half-life or instability index, and the dissociation constant, pKa, of a protein complex 
subunit [23, 26]. Such considerations can possibly achieve better prediction results. 
Conclusions   
Three parameters, the density of PPI, connectedness, and the sequence similarity of 
the complex subunits are defined to gain better insights for our understanding of 
protein-complex architecture. Prediction algorithms based on the assumption that 
complexes are composed of highly PPI dense regions can predict a rather limited 
numbers of the complexes. We demonstrate the implication of the discovered findings, 
by showing how an available method, COACH, fail because they assume high PPI 
 - 6 - 
20. Li Xiaoli, Wu Min, Kwoh Chee-Keong and Ng See-Kiong: Computational 
approaches for detecting protein complexes from protein interaction 
networks: a survey. BMC Genomics, 2010, 11(suppl 1):S3 
21. Qiuand J., and Noble W.S.: Predicting Co-complexed Protein Pairs from 
Heterogeneous data.  PLoS Comput. Biol., 2008, 4(4):e1000054. 
22. Krumsiek, J., Friedel C.C. and R. Zimmer: ProCope – Protein Complex 
Prediction and Evaluation.  Bioinformatics, 2008, 24:2115-2116. 
23. Kundrotas P.J. and Alexov E.: PROTCOM: Searchable Database of 
Protein Complexes Enhanced with Domain Structures.  Nucleic Acids Res, 
2007,  35(Database issue):D575-9. 
24. Sprinzak E., Altuvia Y. and Margalit H.: Characterization and Predication 
of Protein-protein Interactions within and Between Complexes.  Proc. Nat. 
Acad. Sci., 2006, 103(40):14718-14723. 
25. Zanivan et al.: A New Computational Approach to analyze Human Protein 
Complexes and Predict Novel Protein Interactions. Genome Biol., 2007, 
8(12):R256. 
26. Kim Jinrang, Mao Junjun and Gunner M.R.: Are Acidic and Basic Groups in 
Buried Proteins Predicted to be Ionized? J. Mol. Biol. 2005, 348(5):1283-1298. 
Figures 
Figure 1  - A plot of the portion of protein complexes verses the density of 
protein-protein interactions among the subunits in a 10% increment interval. 
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
0%
~1
0%
10
%~
20
%
20
%~
30
%
30
%~
40
%
40
%~
50
%
50
%~
60
%
60
%~
70
%
70
%~
80
%
80
%~
90
%
90
%~
10
0%
Density of PPI
po
rti
on
 o
f p
ro
te
in
 c
om
pl
ex
es
BOND MIPS
 
 - 8 - 
 
Figure 4  -  The plot of the overall average of the percentage of sequence 
identity (y-axis) for all the protein complexes against the size of a complex. 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                           99 年 7 月 7  日 
報告人姓名  
黃建宏 
 
服務機構 
及職稱 
虎尾科技大學 
資訊工程系 
副教授 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
Jun. 25 – Jul. 5, 2010 
35th FEBS Congress, 
Molecules of Life, 
Gothenburg, Sweden 
本會核定 
補助文號 
 
NSC98-2221-E-150-062 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文)第 35 屆 FEBS 學術會議 – 生命科學之分子 
 (英文) 35th FEBS Congress, Molecules of Life 
發表 
論文 
題目 
(中文)從蛋白質交互作用及序列相似性探討蛋白質複合體子單元之屬性 
(英文) Characterization of protein complexes subunits - using interaction 
and sequence identity 
附件三
 
 表 Y04 
3
June 26 
 
Nobel Laureate Lecture 
Roger Tsien 
Breeding and building molecules to spy on cells and tumors  
 
Controlled local photogeneration of singlet oxygen (SO, the metastable excited state of O2) 
is useful for  
z generating electron-microscopic contrast,  
z rapidly inactivating proteins of interest,  
z reporting protein proximities over tens of nanometers, and  
z ablating cells by photodynamic damage. 
Arabidopsis phototropin, a blue light photoreceptor containing flavin mononucleotide 
(FMN) as its chromophore, can be engineered into a small (106-residue) Singlet Oxygen 
Generator (“miniSOG”).which has superior photo-oxidation capabilities. 
One can perform surgery, cutting tumor but NOT nerves. 
http://fens2010.neurosciences.asso.fr/abstracts/r1/a009_1.html  
 
June 27 
 
B – Molecular Networks. B1 – Metabolic networks 
Uwe Sauer 
Transcriptional control of metabolic fluxes and computational identification of the governing 
principles 
 
z How cell control metabolic network? 
z why cell do it? 
z Hwo a single protein/metabolite change the flux? 
z Carbon-13 tracer Æ cell Æ carbon-13 pattern Æ MS/MS Æ global fitting to flex Æ 
physiology phenotype 
z Using bottom-up approach, i.e. gene/protein Æ rate Æ fluxome Æ physiology 
z Now study the steady-state of B. subtillis 
z Which reaction is important in glycolysis? That is glycolytic, glyconegenesis 
)log(
)log(
)log(
)(log(
νν Δ
Δ≈Δ
Δ mRNAenzymef  
whereQ denotes the flux. 
z Results: log(enzyme) vs. geneA is proportional, but log(enzyme) vs. geneB is a constant
z now focus on certain B. subtillis pathways but not all of it (defined by network structure 
and nutrient condition) 
z Why a particular flux set chosen? 
z n/w stiochoimetry define a feasible solution space, use FBA + set of optimally principle 
work across diff. condition for WT E. coli 
z multiple cell goals are relevant, Pareto principle 
z consider maximization of three objects; (biomass, ATP, flux) yield 
z experimental verified, (1) yes, E. coli three objects lie on the Pareto surface, (2) also true 
for diff. species 
z why on the Pareto surface? flux is near optimal not optimal? 
z Evolution glycose Æ acetate Æ glycose Æ acetate, for 1000 generations 
z In-flux is near optimal 
z Flexes are optimized to minimize adjustment for change,  
z Not work well for nitrate respiration which has large variation, this is because E. col not 
 表 Y04 
5
z Find HAX2 has 2 major responses 
z MEMO database 
z apply to penicillin vs. non-pericillin production 
 
 
Matej Oresic  
Reconstruction and multi-scale modeling of lipid networks 
 
z Lipid is a membrane structure, energy storage 
z Lipidomics Æ UPLC/Qtof MS 
z Allostasis – the process of achieving homeostasis 
z Maintain of membrane lipid composition by SREBP, if not human get disease 
z Adipose tissue lipid metabolism - acquired obesity 
z In Finland, a 2453 twin pairs study, 658 healthy monozygotic, 14 pairs BMI discordant 
z Study effect of obesity o gene expression of adipose tissue 
z Microarray clustering results indicated that 
z Lipid is responsible for obesity 
z Poly unsaturated lipid gene UP 
z Mono-unsatured lipid gene DOWN 
z Fatty acid composition in adipose tissue 
z Combine gene expression, lipidomic and clinical data to build adipose tissue model 
z Implication of diff. lipid composition of HDLC and LDLC - Easy lead to inflammation 
 
 
Fredrik Backhed  
Global transcriptional regulation of the gut microbiota and its impact on host physiology 
 
z gut microbiota is a supra-organism, 1013 bacterial cell (also affect our liver too) ~ 10 
times the number of human cells 
z more than 1000 bacterial species 
z 150 fold more genes than the human genome 
z Metabolic production – vitamin 
z Composition of human normal micorbiota, firmcutes, bacterocutes, acetocutes 
z Lbese mice have more firmcutes, few bacterocutes 
z Reduced diversity of the gut microbiota in obee 
z Gnotobioitcs = known + biotic = life 
z Maintain germ-free animal are leaner than normal mice 
z Bacterial modulation of hostmetabolism 
z Microbial regulation of immune system genes (NOS2) 
 
 
EMBO Lecture 
Uri Alon  
Design principles of biological circuits 
 
z Complex n/w are found throughout biology 
z interactions are represented in the form of a graph with nodes and edges 
z Basic building block Æ n/w motif 
z Algorithm finds n-node motifs vs. random n/w 
z 13/199  for 3/4-node connected sub-graph 
z 3 basis motifs; FBL, coherent and in-coherent FFL 
z In E.coli about 50%/50% activation/inhibition 
 表 Y04 
7
z Now is Pfam 24.0, both manual (75% seq annotation, ~ 11200 domain family << 
number of protein seq), and automatic annotation are available 
z Ribosome = 3 RNA + > 50 proteins 
z Rfam – compare protein seq is easy, RNA is hard 
z Blastp two protein seq, one can treat each column independent 
z RNA needs co-variance model brute force (tRNA vs. EMBL takes a year !) 
z Scale bad wt RNA length, double the length increase the time by 8 ! 
z Tools building; cmbuild, cmsearch,, cmalign 
z Rfam – Wikipedia annotation, publishing article along with edit a Wikipedia page 
 
 
Massimo Sandal  
The tube model in Gromacs: A platform for the study of protein folding and aggregation 
 
z Build a platform for pr. folding 
z pr. can be approximate by thick tube, because self-attractive, hydrogen bonding 
z hydrogen bonding vs. hydrophobicity competition give rise to aggregation 
z In a GROMACS implementation 
z A tube potential for molecular dynamics – LJ potential 
z For example, Simulate amyloid oligomer early stage aggregation 
z Hydrogen bonding allow multiple folding p/w emergent 
z Tube model is a simple and useful model 
z Tube mode + PDB full parameterization potential matrices can bridge the gap between 
coarse grain and all atom representation 
 
 
Laura Guasch  
Three-dimensional quantitative structure-activity relationships (3D-QSAR) study of PPAR? 
partial agonists 
 
z PPAR is an important TF in glycose and lipid metabolism 
z PAAr is also important in type II diabetic 
z SAR means structure verse activity (solubility, kinetic constant, EC50) 
z Studying suggest that PPAR is partial agonist, not total agonist 
 
 
Nobel Laureate Lecture 
John Walker The mechanism and regulation of F-ATPases 
 
z Receive his Noble prize in 1997 
z Study and published the F1-ATPase structure in 1994 Nature journal 
z From bovine heart mitochondria 
z Oxidative phosphorylation – electron transportation chain, begin with the molecule 
NADH which transfer one electron, but expel 10 electrons in the final 
z Question about F-ATPase, how is the enzyme regulated? 
z F1 pr. (inhibitor pr.) form a dimer 
z Inhibition pr. cause a conformational change 
z F-ATPase is a small molecule motor – catalytic cycle, producing ATP (the high energy 
molecule) 
 
 
June 28 
 表 Y04 
9
genome 
z Each cell has a c/c need to synchornize 
z There are genes related to morning, day and night time 
z What process decide c/c? 
z Found potent inhibitor of ck1 
z Certain chemicals (enzymes) slow down c/c (24 hours to 25 hours) 
z But enzymes are temperature dependent not consistent with the temperature 
compensation 
z Study in vitro kinase activity 
z What is the atomic level nderstanding of cd1(epsilon, delta)? 
z Find 3d structure of cd1(epsilon, delta), that is atomic level understanding 
z Need molecular dynamics understanding! 
z Calendar yearÆsuch as seasonal affective disorder of c/c(SAD), hibernate, pars 
tuberalis (pt) 
z Need more understanding of the relationship between molecular calendar and mood 
z Hormone production, such as from Apr – Sep found TSH-beta 
 
 
Aziz Sancar  
Circadian clock control of the cellular response to DNA damage 
 
z c/c pr., such as cryptochrome, period, clock, BMAL1 
z see Sancar (2008), Nat. structural molecular biology, 15, 234 
z interaction map, (cry)(per) ---| cry, per, clock-control gene 
z five DNA damage mechanism 
z direct repair 
z bp excision repair 
z nucleotide excision repair  
z mismatch repair 
z ds break cross-link repair 
z DNA damage repair activity is high during the evening time but lower in night 
z It is found that only nucleotide excision repair is control by c/c 
z DNA repair has to do with checkpoint, apoptosis, transcription reprogramming, 
mechanism goes like this (if there is mutation Æ perform dual incision (about 24 – 32 
bp long), then ligase correct the mutation) 
z At the same experiment see c/c oscillation of excision repair activity, and detect XPA pr. 
in liver, XPA anti-phase with gene cry 
z It is suggested that mechanism of c/c of DNA repair is a serial check, control of 
apoptosis by c/c 
z (BMAL)(clock) ppi, BMAL ---| cry and clock ---| per 
z Again DNA damage repair activity is high during the evening time not in the morning 
 
 
EMBO Young Investigator Lecture 
 
Arp Schnittger  
Cell cycle control during growth and reproduction 
 
z Found that cell cycle genes are not evolutionary conserved 
z Consider A. thaliana, plant has male and female cycle, meiosis, mitosis (1st, 2nd ), s 
phase (pollen) embryo sac, fertilization 
z TRN at pon II 
 表 Y04 
11
z if you do not have all, do optimization, brute force sampling 
z idea: often one is interested Æ global optimization, shown there is no optimal solution 
z example of global optimization Æ GA, particle swarm 
z GA – chose an optimal solution, then select the best, limitation is complex phase 
landscape, results is singular extereme value 
z GSA with random sampling (brute force approach) 
z Biological n/w is not random but driven by evolution 
 
 
Nobel Laureate Lecture 
Elizabeth Blackburn 
Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California San Fransisco 
Telomeres and telomerases 
 
z Telomeres, ends of a chromosome, are simple repeated G rich seq. avoid self annealing 
z As the cell divide, telomeres are shorter and shorter 
z Add DNA to telomere by tel0merase 
z Cells are immortal (tetra hymerase) 
z Telomerase form a cap to prevents improper repair, two faces of telomerase, BAD is 
cancer promoting, GOOD is cell replenishment, telomerase production 
z Cancer cell Æ they learn to stop apoptosis 
z High telomerase: common in malignant cancer cells, cell keep dividing 
z Self-annealing seq. added by mt-TEL 
z Forcing telomerase mis-function in cancer cell 
z Good side is – high in stem cell, low in normal cell 
z Telomerase reduces ability of cells to replenish Æ disease impact 
z Telomerase length from white blood cell (wbc) 
z Chronic stress increase vs. telomere length decrease 
z Major common diseases are related to telomere length decrease, telomeres lengthened in 
~ 1/4 of adults in 2.5 years 
z Telomeres can both be shorten and lengthen 
z Maintain telomeres has a high rate of survival 
z DHA omega3 increase lengthen telomere, shorter is lesser 
z HIV, non-AIDS, telomere can be a biomarker or causal mechanisms for gap-related 
disease 
 
 
 
June 29 
 
B – Molecular Networks. B3 – Global networks 
Charlie Boone  
The genetic landscape of a cell 
 
z Genetic stability 
z Hartman (2001) Sci. 10 
z Buffering of genetic variation 
z Synthetic lethal scoring program 
z There is a genetic interaction, expected double mutant fitness 
z WT --- (A,B,C) a protein complex (prc) 
z A delete --- 0.5 probability of survive 
z B delete --- 0.5 probability of survive 
 表 Y04 
13
Perturbing genes and predicting the outcome 
 
z It is strange that ~50%  mutation in BRCA2 not necessary lead to breast cancer 
z to understand and predict when perturbations are harmful 
z Variation between genetically identical individual 
z Mutation A + mutation B cause disease 
z Hypothesis  
z Mut A + B high Æ health 
z Mut A + B low Æ diseasee 
z Case 1: genetic redundancy both (TBX-8, TBX-9) Æ share function 
z Case 2: compensatory p/w 
z Case 3: global buffering, such as hsp90, chaperon 
z Found that increasing chaperon level, species more sustainable to mutation, OR 
z increasing chaperon in a constant environment increase environment genetic) resilience 
z globally predict the effects of loss of function mutation 
z also how mutations in multiple genes combine to cause synthetic phenotypic change  
z investigated the mechanisms that cause increased gene expression to be harmful  
z Many mutations have little apparent effect because of genetic compensation 
(‘redundancy’), aim to understand how compensation evolves  
z investigating the general principle that robustness to genetic and non-genetic 
perturbations is coupled, depending on the same gene products 
 
 
E – Biomolecular Design and Function. E3 – Design of Macromolecules 
Tanja Kortemme  
Molecular Design–from proteins to networks, coupling computation and experiment 
 
z link the details of interactions between biological macromolecules to their in vivo 
functions within complex cellular networks 
z understanding of biological processes and to enable systematic cellular engineering 
z input pr./prc – fixed/flexible backbone – site-chain library – rosetta scoring function – 
low energy seq. optimized for design objective 
z design goal: a remodeled interface 
z Atomic level – pr. conformation change, approaching this from the field of robotics, 
predicts the conformations of variable segments in proteins high accuracy 
z System/cellular characterization in vivo, do edge perturbation, knockout, stop ppi 
z See distinct mutant profiles 
z Quantify ppi and see phenotype 
z characterize fundamental relationships between protein structure, sequence, dynamics 
and function of proteins and to engineer proteins with new and useful functions 
 
 
Attend the Tutorial: Practical Systems Biology – by the FEBS Education Committee 
 
 
Technology Workshop – Protein Interaction 
Matthias Gstaiger  
Systematic analysis of dynamic signaling modules by quantitative mass spectrometry 
 
z Study genetic perturbation – change in molecular phenotype – cellular phenotype 
z Affinity purification combined with mass spectrometry (AP-MS) represents the most 
widely used approach for studying protein complexes under near physiological 
 表 Y04 
15
z From UniProt + 7 other DB, build IntPro which consists of domain, alternative splicing, 
domain family, domain super-family information  
 
Adel Golovin  
Protein structures (PDBe) 
 
z Integration of chemical information with pr. Seq. and 3D structure 
z ~66000 seq. from PDB, dictionary of chemical compounds. Site, domain, family 
annotation from 20 dbs, allow search by diff. level of ppi, H-bond, covalent 
modificaiton 
z Kinase – compose the highest % of cysteine 
z Search by pr. Cavity, phosphorylation, glycosylation 
z ppi search according to secondary structure (length of secondary structure as well) 
z chemical search - need Java 
 
 
Sandra Orchard  
Interactions and pathways: IntAct and Reactome 
 
z PSI molecule international standard, XML data exchange format, domain-specific 
controlled vocabulary 
z Ppi, pr-ligand (Dasty view, NetworkView 
z Reactome  - map according to sub-cellular localization not tissue or development stage
z Tool for analysis – SkyPainter, BioMart  
z Evidence tracking – direct evidence (from PMID-1 to PMID-2) 
 
 
Technology Workshop – Network Modelling 
Stefan Schuster  
Predicting pathways in genome-scale metabolic networks 
 
z MCA, FBA (based on steady state), no need for kinetic rate constant 
z Stoichiometric coefficient (reversible) –calculate quantities such as the amount of 
products that can be produced with given reactants and percent yield, integrated large 
model 
z concept of elementary modes ( a minimal set, weight by relative flux, unique up to a 
scale) is a very useful tool in that analysis. It allows one to decompose complex 
metabolic networks into the smallest functional entities 
z maximize of tryptophan to glucose yield 
z a model of 65 reactions, in E. coli (26 EFM) 
z two modes with highest tryptophan : glucose = 0.45 : 1 
z knockout of some enzymes can increase average molar yield – strange 
z knockout low yield modes 
z extend to genome scale by integer linear programming method (worst case: exponential 
growth, best case: linear growth) 
z combine EFB in subsystem with FBA on the whole systems, need extension of FBA by 
integrating Boolean algebra, i.e. enzyme ON/OFF set to one/zero) 
 
 
Marija Cvijovic  
Yeast Protein-Protein Interaction annotation 
 
 表 Y04 
17
Protein phosphorylation in bacteria 
 
z In Eukarya, phosphorylation cascades of Ser/Thr and Tyr kinases 
z In Bacteria, this role was assigned to His/Asp kinases of the two component and 
phosphorelay systems. < 100 proteins are phosphorylated (p/n) 
z Little conservation of p/n sites (hard to predict p/n site) 
z Tools: NetPhoBac, BacPHOS 
z chart these new phosphorylation networks, assigning individual kinases to their 
substrates 
z it is found that phosphorylation controls enzymatic activity of the kinase substrates, in 
other cases their sub-cellular localization or half-life in the cytosol 
 
Davide F.V. Corona  
Functional interaction between chromatin remodelers and non-coding RNA’s 
 
z Nucleosome compose of H(3,4,2a,2b) form dimer then tetramer 
z Chromatin repeat every 200 bp, chromatin accessibility has to do with – transcription, 
replication, repair 
z Allow DNA access – (1) DNA methylation, (2) covalent modification affect the N and C 
terminal of histine, (3) chromatin remodeling (ISW1 prc) 
z a physical interaction between ISWI and Hsr-x ncRNA 
z Loss of Hsr-x function results in a strong suppression of eye morphology and 
chromosome condensation defects caused by loss of ISWI activity 
 
Piet Gros  
Mechanistic insights into complement activation and Regulation 
 
z The complement system is a crucial part of the innate immunity in mammals 
z This system is formed by ~30 plasma proteins and cell-surface receptors, which enable 
the host to clear invading pathogens and altered host cells 
z it is 1000 Myr old system 
z the central complement component C3 (1641 res.) and its activated form C3b revealed 
intricate domain arrangements and marked conformational changes that lead to covalent 
labelling by C3b, which mark target cells for immune clearance 
 
Nobel Laureate Lecture 
Venki Ramakrishnan  
What we have learned from structures of the ribosome 
 
z The determination of the atomic structures of the ribosomal subunits in 2000 
revolutionized the field of translation 
z our contributions to this field by focusing first on the structure of the 30S subunit and its 
complexes 
z then on high resolution structures of functional complexes of the entire ribosome. 
z These studies have led to an understanding of the structural basis of the accuracy of 
translation, and how recognition of the codon by the correct tRNA leads to incorporation 
of an amino acid to the growing polypeptide chain. 
 
 
 
 
 
無研發成果推廣資料 
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
