中文關鍵字: 化療敏感性，化療抗性，調控訊號傳遞路徑，基因表現，調控網路，
最短路逕，圖形理論，差異子網路分析 
 
英文摘要 
 
One of the major challenges in systems biology today is to devise methods of 
interpreting the data of expression levels of the genes in an organism under different 
conditions, which will reveal the complex relationships between multiple genes and 
their products. Such methodology is important to researches like drug discovery and 
design, and also is a powerful tool of deeper understanding of the interactions among 
all the components in a biological system as well as their collective behavior as they 
respond to different drug treatment.  
 
This proposal is about analyzing drug resistance phenomena in breast cancer with 
bioinformatics methods. Drug resistance in tumor cells, resulting in the failure of 
chemotherapy, remains a major obstruction to the successful treatment of cancer, 
which is an emerging problem for clinical cancer therapy. This proposal aims to 
provide a system to identify the differential expression interaction networks 
associated with drug response in chemosensitivity and chemoresistant breast cancer. 
The impact of these studies will be the identification of response networks that could 
present potential drug-target. By analyzing differential network expression, novel 
drugs with similar response networks to drugs with known modes of biological action 
can be easily identified early in the drug development to prevent repeated and costly 
clinical trails. In particular, this proposal studies on chemosensitivity and 
chemoresistant for breast cancer highlighted the interconnectivity of cellular 
processes. This work not only offers insights into the mode of biological action of 
drug resistant but also provides information on potential key targets (hypothesis) for 
further drug-development efforts. 
 
We have found that SOD1 gene is involved in chemoresistant related sub-networks 
and responsible for oxidative stress in cells during chemotherapy. This experimental 
result will be considered and studied more in our future work. 
 
Key words: chemotherapy, chemosensitivity and chemoresistance, regulatory 
networks, pathway, gene expression, signal transduction pathway, analysis of 
differential expression sub-network, shortest path, graph theory 
network)，分析化療抗藥性與化療敏感性子網路的差異性，藉此研究，可以
對於化療抗藥性的生物反應機制，能夠掌握更明確的資訊，找出產生化療抗
藥性的關鍵交互作用網路，能夠提供生醫人員更有效益的藥物治療參考假設
(biological hypothesis)。 
 
研究目標。 
1. 提供具有生物意義的藥物抗性網路，讓生醫人員能夠從藥物抗性子網路當
中得到有意義的資訊。 
2. 整合微生物晶片的實驗數據，提供化療藥物治療癌細胞各種的基因反應，
讓建構出來的反應途徑能夠符合該藥物作用機制。 
3. 利用已知的大型生物交互作用網路，由使用者提供有興趣的基因來推論出
抗藥性子網路，此方法所找出的反應途徑因並非只具有片段資訊，而具有
完整結構，較能夠從大量蘊含資料當中得到尚未發掘的資訊，進一步從抗
藥性子網路當中發現未知的抗藥性機制或者抗癌藥物的目標基因。 
4. 透過子網路間的差異分析，了解新的抗癌藥物機制，並且瞭解化療抗藥性
與化療敏感性的生化途徑差別(與基因表現差異)，減少臨床的重覆實驗。 
 
三. 文獻探討 
1. 大型生物交互作用網路 
2005 年 Lawrence Cabusora 等學者，提出了一種方法建構網路，運用圖論
的概念，截取出子網路[1][2]。Lawrence 先是利用已知新陳代謝的調控網
路，建構出大型網路，此方法的好處在於，我們用已知的生物反應途徑，
來推論未知的子網路，並非是片段的資訊，而是能夠提供完整的生物反應
途徑，試圖從當中去得到隱含的資訊。透過建構大型生物交互作用網路，
再利用圖論的演算法[3]算出多個子網路，利用微生物晶片的基因表現
量，計算出子網路的分數進行排序，用此方式篩選得到較理想的子網路，
最後根據微生物晶片所提供的實驗，針對不同的子網路進行比較分析。 
 
2. 微生物晶片 
利用微生物晶片建構網路也是近年來相當熱門的主題，東京大學 Seiya 
Imoto 等學者，利用貝氏網路與無母數迴歸，結合微生物晶片(microarray)
建構模擬出生物反應網路[4]。依據兩片的微生物晶片資料，一為基因分
裂型的微生物晶片，建構出大型網路之後，接著利用另外一片藥物反應的
時間序列微生物晶片，從大型網路擷取出與藥物反應最相關的子網路，提
供給使用者與藥物直接反應的目標基因，與整個藥物反應機制。Seiya 
Imoto 學者也發覺單純利用微生物晶片建構網路太依賴晶片的準確度，因
此，之後陸續加入了生物資訊，像是序列的 motif、文獻或是蛋白質交互
作用(protein protein interaction)等等資訊，使得建構出來的網路能夠更準
四. 研究方法 
 
大型生物交互作用網路建構
Molecular interaction 
& reaction networks 
(KEGG) 
Seed nodes selection 
(化療敏感性基因篩選) DNA repair or DNA 
damage 功能相關的基因 
化療敏感性相關的轉錄因子 
生醫人員感興趣的基因 
最短路徑演算法實作合併微生物晶片資料分析 
篩選出子網路 
化療敏感性與化療抗藥行性子網路差異分析  
P-P interaction 
& P-DNA interaction 
(PID) 
受調控基因 
Start node：CREB3，end node：TP73 
  
Start node：CEBPD，end node：ZMIZ1 
 shortest paths Score 
CEBPD->CHD8, HELSNF1->CTNNB1, CTNNB->CREBBP, 
RSTS,EP300->TP53~HOXA9->PTEN, BZS, MHAM->PTK2->SHC2,SHC4,SHC3,SHC1, 
SHC->GRB2->SOS1, GINGF,SOS2->MYC->ZMIZ1 
2.86 
 
六. 計畫成果自評 
1.學術成就方面。此計畫案類型為新進人員計畫，為期一年，目標是藉由改
良最短路徑演算法，合併 KEGG、PID 等生物途徑資料庫與微陣列生物晶片
資料，找出癌細胞投以順鉑（cis -diamminedichloroplatinum(II), cisplatin）化
療藥物治療後，產生抗性(chemoresistance)的關鍵機轉。順鉑是金屬元素製備
治療癌症的藥物之一。癌細胞對順鉑產生抗藥的機制有很多方式，包括細胞
內無法有效地形成順鉑-DNA 鍵結物、以及癌細胞對已形成的順鉑-DNA 鍵
結物能有效地修補或耐受等生化反應，藉此計畫的執行分析抗藥性的調控訊
號傳遞路徑，更加了解藥物的代謝與癌細胞的抗藥性反應。實驗成果發表於
國際會議論文一篇，國際期刊論文一篇(審查中)。 
 
2.應用價值方面。此計畫實驗結果可提供生醫專業人員做為產生新的生物假
設(Biological Hypothesis)。計畫內容為使用電腦演算法分析，找出產生化療抗
性的關鍵機轉相關的生物途徑與關鍵基因，並依重要性將實驗結果排序。除
此之外，也利用微陣列生物晶片的 gene expression 表現值交差驗證，篩選出
可能產生抗藥性的調控訊號傳遞路徑，再透過生醫類已發表之文獻為佐證資
 shortest paths Score 
I. CREB3,CREB1,CREB3L4,ATF4,CREB3L2,CREB3L3,CREB3L1,CREB5->
CREBBP, RSTS,EP300->TP53~PAX5->MDM2->TP53~HOXA9->PTEN, 
BZS, MHAM->AKT3,AKT1,AKT2->MAP2K4, SERK1->MAPK8, 
PRKM8,MAPK9, PRKM9,MAPK10, PRKM10->TP53~TFAP4->TP73 
 
II. CREB3,CREB1,CREB3L4,ATF4,CREB3L2,CREB3L3,CREB3L1,CREB5->
CREBBP, RSTS,EP300->TP53~PAX5->MDM2->TP53~TFAP4->TP73 
 
III. CREB3,CREB1,CREB3L4,ATF4,CREB3L2,CREB3L3,CREB3L1,CREB5->
CREBBP, RSTS,EP300->TP53~PAX5->MDM2->TP53~HOXA9->TP73 
2.79 
 
 
 
 
1.779 
 
 
 
1.65 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心
得報告 
                           
日期：99 年 10 月 18 日 
一、參加會議經過 
GIW2009 今年的舉辦地點特別選在日本橫濱，由 Human Genome Center , 
Institute of Medical Science, University of Tokyo 以及 JSBi 主辦，來自世界
各國，研究 Systems Biology，Bioinformatics 相關領域之研究工作者與學
者，在這研討會期間，互相交換研究結果及心得。2009 年的 GIW2009 國
際會議不單只是針對單一主題之研討會，而是包含了有：Drug 
development (藥物發展)，蛋白質結構與序列比對，生物晶片，生物途徑
(pathway)分析與資料庫等數個相關議題共同與會，共有近 100 餘篇著作
發表於本次會議中。 
 
本次會議之行程安排為：12/14 早上為大會報到下午並開始進行討論， 
12/15 與 12/16 由上午 9:00 起大會分別針對各個主題，進行論文發表與演
講，吾人在 12/14 以 poster 發表與生物資訊相關之研究論文：＂Systematic 
Identification of Differential Expression Networks in Chemosensitive and 
計畫編
號 
NSC98－2218－E－231－002－ 
計畫名
稱 
從大型生物網路中識別乳癌化療敏感性與化療抗性調控網路之
差異表現 
出國人
員姓名 趙士儀 
服務機構
及職稱 
清雲科技大學資訊工程學系 
助理教授 
會議時
間 
98 年 12 月 14 日
至 98 年 12 月 16
日 
會議地點 
日本橫濱 
會議名
稱 
(中文) 第二十屆基因體資訊學國際會議 
(英文)GIW2009 (The 20th International Conference on Genome 
Informatics) 
發表論
文題目 
(中文)系統式分析卵巢癌化療抗性與敏感性差異化網路 
(英文) Systematic Identification of Differential Expression 
Networks in Chemosensitive and Chemoresistant Ovarian Cancer 
附件四 
Systematic Identification of differential expression networks 
in chemosensitive and chemoresistant ovarian cancer 
 
Shih-Yi Chao1              A-Mei Huang2 
chaosy@cyu.edu.tw               amhuang@kmu.edu.tw 
 
 
1 Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, Ching Yun University, No. 229, Jiansing 
Road, Jhongli City, Taoyuan County 320, Taiwan (R.O.C.) 
2  Department of Biochemistry, Kaoshiung Medical University, Shih-Chuan 1st Road, Kaohsiung, 807, 
Taiwan (R.O.C.)   
 
Keywords: differential expression networks, chemoresistant, chemosensitive, systems biology 
 
1  Introduction  
 
Chemotherapy resistance in ovarian cancer is related to multiple factors, and assessment of these factors is 
necessary for the development of new drugs and therapeutic regimens. One of the factors is the different 
reactions in biological interaction networks that cause chemoresistant. In other words, the mechanisms and 
related biological interconnectivities that contribute to chemotherapy resistance are relatively unknown. 
Therefore, this work aims to provide a system to identify the differential expression networks associated with 
drug response in chemosensitive and chemoresistant ovarian cancer. This work have three major objectives, 
(i) to explore differential expression networks or novel predicted genes that are involved in chemoresistant 
mechanism, (ii) how these genes interact with each other, and (iii) to analysis differential expression 
networks between chemosensitive and chemoresistant response. 
 
2  Method and Results  
 
2.1  System Overview  
A system flow diagram of the corresponding processes is shown in Figure 1. The system is composed of 
heterogeneous biological databases integration, seed nodes selection, network identification, scoring and 
filtering, and differential expression networks analysis. In order to construct the large biological network, we 
collect pathways from public databases such as Pathway Interaction Database [1] and KEGG [2]. We 
perform a systematic screen for transcription factors (TFs) involved in the DNA damage response as well. 
The information of TFs is extracted from TRANSFAC [3] database. TFs will be selected according to any 
one of two criteria; one is TFs that are annotated by DNA damage or DNA repair related GO terms [4]. The 
other criteria is that TFs are 2-fold differentially expressed after drug treatment.  
Next we input seed nodes to identify sub-networks from the large biological network and perform 
sub-network scoring and filtering by ovarian cancer expression values [5]. By mathematical means, this 
procedure extracts a sub-network from the large biological network that is spanned by the seed nodes. We 
use genes, proteins and other cellular components coded as nodes that are connected by edges in the 
identified sub-networks. Because the sub-network filtering step assumes weights on edges for scoring, and 
such edge weights must be calculated from gene expression levels. Thus, we transform the identified 
sub-networks into the line graph [6]. Then edges can be weighted by gene expression values directly. 
Following Ideker et al.[7], we analyze the gene expression data and to extract p-values for each expressed 
gene, and to calculate a total score of the sub-networks. Finally, we filter sub-networks according to 
calculated scores.  
 
2.2  Results 
 
Due to the limitation of pages, we only provide the Figure 2 to demonstrate one of the experimental results 
of identified network. The start and end nodes are IL1A and ADAMTS1, respectively. As shown in the 
diagram 2, several pathways are involved including MAPK signaling pathway, insulin signaling pathway, 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
此計畫案是與高雄醫學大學醫學系生化學科 , 黃阿梅助理教授合作之跨領域
計畫案。感謝黃阿梅助理教授給予生醫專業知識的意見 , 透過定期的討論與開
會 , 讓此計畫案有初步的成果發表。為延續此類研究 , 下一步將擴增研究的
深度與廣度 , 包括新演算法的開發 , 整合分析平台的建立 , 進一步探討抗
藥性與氧化壓力之間的關係 , 以及鉑類藥物抗性的機轉。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
本計畫之部份實驗成果已發表於 GIW2009 國際會議，並將完整之研究成果整理成 
Journal paper，投稿於 BMC Medical Genomics 國際期刊，目前審稿中。 
