研究摘要(500 字以內)： 
In this project, we designed free-form optics as a beam shaper for green laser lines 
instruments. Lasers have been used in the construction industry for many years. Laser levels and 
laser plumb lines are very useful instruments which produce a plane of light that serves as a 
reference line for construction projects. However, the laser line instruments can cost thousands of 
dollars, so only those who regularly undertake large construction projects can justify the purchase. 
Early model laser line generators have not achieved widespread adoption by the general public 
despite the time savings because of the initial cost and unwieldy size of the tools. Nowadays, red 
laser line instruments are available to market and the cost is dropped dramatically after the 
availability of red laser diodes. However, red laser lines are vague under strong sunlight and 
people are preferred to have green laser light because human eyes are more sensitive this 
wavelength range.  
Unfortunately, green laser diodes remain challenging due to material issues that researcher 
are still searching appropriate semiconductor compound. Current green laser modules use laser 
diode (808nm) pumped Yttrium Orthovanadate (Nd:YVO4) crystal coupled with Pottasium 
Titanyl Phosphate (KTP) as a frequency doubler generating 532 nm (green) and 1064nm 
(infrared). This method, known as diode pump solid state (DPSS) laser, is gaining an increasing 
popularity for many applications because of its high absorption and emission efficiencies. But the 
beam profile of green laser generated by DPSS is Gaussian beam and is not suitable for laser line 
instrument applications because people are likely to see strong light intensity at the center part of 
the lines. In other words, people would like to have energy evenly distribute over the whole laser 
lines. 
In this project, we designed, fabricated and tested free-form shaped optics. When 
diffraction effects are not important, geometrical optics (ray tracing, conservation of energy 
within a bundle of rays, and the constant optical path length condition) can be used to design laser 
beam shapers by solving beam shaping equations or by optimizing a beam shaping merit function 
for the configurations, including aspheric elements or spherical-surface gradient-index lenses, 
which are required to change the input irradiance and phase profile into a more useful form. 
Solutions of the beam shaping equations are developed for a two-aspheric lens system for shaping 
a circular symmetric Gaussian beam into a top-hat output beam profile. 
 
人才培育成果說明： 
We expect that the training gained by personnel participating in this project 
includes cleanroom microfabrication skills, polymer material experience, and optical 
testing techniques. The most important of all, they will be able to have valuable 
know-how about laser beam shaper. Besides above training, we are going to develop a 
rigorous model to predict any potential optical design and thermal issues related to the 
polymer membrane mirrors for industry usage if applicable. Finally, this project both 
provides hand-on training and theoretical simulation. It also offers a good opportunity 
for academic research and the industry application in the upcoming time. 
