previous research works. 
A rectangle containing an obstacle is found, and then extends the 
edges of these rectangles. The monitored are can be divided into 
many rectangles. The robot deploys sensor in the rectangle by our 
method. When the robot is on the boundary of a rectangle, it finds 
neighbor rectangle with no sensors and then entering the neighbor 
rectangle. After finish the deployment of latter rectangle, the robot 
can return the original rectangle and continue unfinished 
deployment. Because of the characteristic of the entry and exit is 
neighbor, the target can be achieved. 
As for the obstacle contained in an obstacle or the contained area 
can not be observed clearly from exterior, we have designed the 
deployment algorithms for these cases. 
For example, the shape of obstacle is star and it can not be solved 
only by rectangles. Firstly, we translate the obstacle into a polygon, 
and then find a rectangle containing the polygon. It is obvious we 
can deploy sensor in the monitored by the previous method except 
for the rectangle. Finally, the polygon between the star boundary 
and the rectangle can be deployed sensors to achieve full coverage 
by the triangle-based deployment scheme. 
 
 
 1
中文摘要： 
本計畫使用機器人執行感測器佈建的工作，機器人需具有檢測邊界之設備如超音波及檢測四周是
否已佈建感測器的能力。當監測區域具有障礙物時，基本想法是先將監測區域矩形化，接著逐一處理
每個矩形的佈建，此佈建方法與其它方法最大不同之處是：機器人進入監測區域內的入口處與佈建完
成後的出口處相鄰。隨著障礙物外形的不同，只有矩形化是不夠的，基於一多邊形可分解成多個三角
形，因此需要以三角形為基礎佈建策略。 
本計畫所用到的兩個基礎方法：在無障礙物的矩形內佈建感測器，且入口處與佈建完成後的出口
處相鄰。再者是在三角形頂點座標已知的條件下，能推導出每一個感測器的直角座標，並使三角形達
到完全覆蓋。這兩項方法都是我們先前的研究成果。 
我們先找到能包含障礙物的矩形，再延伸矩形的邊，就能將監測區域劃分成多個矩形，從入口處
依前述已發展的矩形監測區域佈建演算法處理每一個矩形，當在邊界時若發現相鄰的矩形尚未佈建，
則會進入該相鄰的矩形，佈建完成後回到原矩形繼續未完成之佈建。這是因為演算法具有入口處與出
口處相鄰的特性，才能達到這個功能。 
對於障礙物內包含監測區域，或所包含的區域無法從外部一目瞭然，甚至障礙物內有障礙物，針
對這種情形，我們也設計了障礙物內部監測區域之矩形化與佈建感測器演算法。對於如星狀無法矩形
化的障礙物，先使其變成多邊形，在將其外觀矩形化，所以外部的監測區域依然能使用前述矩形化佈
建，最後再對矩形外觀與障礙物間之多邊形三角化，利用前述的三角形佈建法，即能達到完全覆蓋。 
關鍵詞：感測器佈建、無線感測器網路、障礙物、完全覆蓋、空洞 
英文摘要 
The robot deployment scheme is proposed in this project, and the robot can examine the boundary with 
supersonic devices or the constructed sensors. Assume there are obstacles in the monitored area. Firstly, the 
monitored area is divided into many rectangles, and then the robot deploys sensors in the rectangle one by one. 
The deployment scheme with the characteristic of the first deployed sensor (entry) and the last deployed 
sensor (exit) in the rectangle are neighbor. According the shape of obstacles, the rectangle can not fit all 
shapes. Because a polygon can be decomposed into a piece of triangles, it is necessary to be considered to 
deploy sensors by triangle-based deployment scheme. There are two elementary methods needed for this 
project. First, a deployment scheme can be applied in the rectangle area with no obstacle, and the entry and 
exit is neighbor in the scheme. If the coordinates of a triangle are known, the hole of triangle can be full 
coverage. Beside, the coordinates of each deployed sensor can be deduced. These two methods are our 
previous research works. 
A rectangle containing an obstacle is found, and then extends the edges of these rectangles. The 
monitored are can be divided into many rectangles. The robot deploys sensor in the rectangle by our method. 
When the robot is on the boundary of a rectangle, it finds neighbor rectangle with no sensors and then 
entering the neighbor rectangle. After finish the deployment of latter rectangle, the robot can return the 
original rectangle and continue unfinished deployment. Because of the characteristic of the entry and exit is 
neighbor, the target can be achieved. 
As for the obstacle contained in an obstacle or the contained area can not be observed clearly from 
exterior, we have designed the deployment algorithms for these cases. 
For example, the shape of obstacle is star and it can not be solved only by rectangles. Firstly, we translate 
the obstacle into a polygon, and then find a rectangle containing the polygon. It is obvious we can deploy 
sensor in the monitored by the previous method except for the rectangle. Finally, the polygon between the star 
the concave region can be viewed as transparent so that the region except concave can be deployed senor by 
the previous works. But there do not consider the obstacle issue in a monitor region. Obstacles such as walls, 
buildings, blockhouses, and pillboxes might exist in the monitor environment. These obstacles significantly 
impact the performance of robot deployment. A robot-deployment algorithm without considering obstacles 
might result in coverage holes or might spend a long time executing a deployment task. In this project, we aim 
to solve this deployment issue in a monitor which consists of a lot of obstacles. Besides that, the first deployed 
sensor is adjacent to last deployed sensor. 
研究方法 
We assume that there are some obstacles in an interesting area, and the position has been known. The 
shop of the obstacles is the polygon which is consists in some rectangles. Beside that we assume that the 
monitor area inside the obstacle is unable clear, such as obstacle B in the Fig. 2(a). In the fig.2, the polygon 
include mesh point denotes the obstacle. There are three obstacles in the figure. The A is an obstacle which is 
under the export face. The B is an anomalous polygon. The C is a pure rectangular obstacle. In the general 
knowledge, the obstacle is a polygon. These obstacles significantly impact the performance of robot 
deployment. Therefore, we propose a rectangle-based deployment in this project. We make each obstacle be a 
rectangle as shown in fig. 2(b). These obstacles call the rectangular obstacle in follow.   
 
B
C
A
  
B
A
C
 
(a)                                  (b)  
Fig. 2. (a) A monitor region with obstacles. (b) Rectangle of obstacle exactly. 
These two y-coordinate lines of rectangle of obstacle extend to the upper and lower boundary. The 
overall monitor area can be divided in to a set of smaller rectangle as show in fig. 3. The rectangular obstacle 
A, B and C extend the vertical line (dotted line) to boundaries. The dotted line can avoid the other obstacles. 
We can notice that in clear, the entire monitor region consists of several rectangles which are varies sizes. 
These smaller rectangles call monitor rectangle. 
 
A
B
C
A
 
Fig. 3. The vertical lines of rectangular obstacle extend to the upper and lower boundary. 
 3
1 2
18
17
9 8 7
6543
19
2021
10
1314 15 16
1112
 
Fig. 5. The connected graph consists of monitor rectangles. 
 
In summary, we discuss the deployment process between two neighbor monitor rectangles in detail by 
using the monitor rectangle 1 and 2. In fig. 6, when sensor a has been deployed, the robot finds the rectangle 
has not deployment. The robot runs the deployment process in rectangle 2, first. We note it by using aÖx, 
where position of sensor x is the entry of rectangle 2. When rectangle 2 is finish, the deployment process can 
return to the rectangle 1. It shows by using yÎb. It means the last one sensor y in rectangle has been 
deployment. The robot continues the process in rectangle 1, which is back to the position b. We can observe 
that the position of sensor b is the neighbor of sensor a.    
 
 
Fig. 6. The example of two neighbor monitor rectangle. 
結果與討論 
In this project, we provide the obstacle-free robot deployment scheme for the concave region around the 
boundary. The sensors can be deployed one by one with concise x–y coordinates to avoid the obstacles. 
Besides that the first deployed sensor is adjacent to last deployed sensor. Meanwhile, all of the deployed 
nodes only are visited once. The accuracy of the deployment scheme is derived by Hamiltonian Cycle. It is 
very suitable for the robot deployment algorithm in wireless sensor application. 
Reference 
[1] G. J. Pottie, “Wireless Sensor Networks,” Proc. IEEE Information Theory Workshop, Killarney, Ireland, 
pp. 139-140, 1998. 
[2] I. Chlamtac, M. Conti, and J. J. Liu, “Mobile ad hoc networking: Imperatives and challenges,” Ad Hoc 
Networks, 1(1), pp. 13-64, 2003. 
[3] I. F. Akyildiz, W. Su, Y. Sankarasubramaniam, and E. Cayirci “Wireless sensor networks: a survey,” 
Computer Networks, 38(4), pp. 393-422, 2002. 
[4] K. A. C. Baumgartner, Silvia Ferrari, and Thomas A. Wettergren, “Robust Deployment of Dynamic 
Sensor Networks for Cooperative Track Detection,” IEEE Sensors Journal, Vol. 9, No. 9, pp. 12029-1049, 
September 2009. 
 5
 
附件二  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
█  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：█已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 █無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
本計畫所提出的方法系結合先前的研究成果，以具有入口與出口相鄰的特點及以三
角形為基礎的佈建方式，應用在具有障礙物的環境下，使機器人能在未知環境形狀
的條件下仍能維持達到全覆蓋(Full Coverage)的要求，並且能求出無線感測器所在
位置的座標。 
基於上述的特性，在下個階段的研究中，我們將著重於在拓普控制的維持(Topology 
Control)上，以其對整體的無線感測器網路能增加其生命期(Life Time)，並對整體行
動無線感測器的派遣(Dispatching)做深入研究建立評估的機率模型。 
本研究是個人在對無線感測器網路研究的一部份，能應用於對大面積且不易以人為
方式佈建時使用，在有限的電力能量下仍能使整體網路效能提昇。 
 
 7
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：許良政 計畫編號：99-2221-E-251-005- 
計畫名稱：以矩形及三角形為基礎不具障礙物限制之機器人無線感測器網路佈建演算法 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 0 100%  
博士生 2 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
