Dynamics of Flapping Micro-Aerial Vehicles
T.M. Yang∗and F.Y. Hsiao†
Abstract
The dynamics of flapping wing micro aerial vehicles (MAVs) is studied in this
paper. The MEMS Laboratory in Tamkang University has been developing flapping
wing MAVs for several years. Based on the developed flapping wing MAV we study
its dynamics and compare our results with flight test data. Although several papers
have discussed similar topics previously, using our flight test data we demonstrate
the validity of some assumptions and our derivations. We also propose a claim that
links the time-average aerodynamical forces to the wind tunnel test database, so that
a flapping MAV can be analyzed in the same methodology as what we have done to
a fixed-wing aircraft. Flight test data and numerical simulations are also provided to
demonstrate the validity of our results.
1 Introduction
Flight in flapping is a very efficient way to transport a unit of mass over a unit of distance,
even thouth it requires extremely high power output[5]. For this reason, it is an interesting
field and a new generation technology for the flight configuration. There are two kinds of
flight configuration that is investigated in the literatures on natural flapping flight: Bird-
like flight and Insect-like flight. The focus of this paper is on bird-like flight. The bird-like
aerial robot we are investigating is developed by the TKU MEMS LAB in the recent years.
The aerodynamics performance in flapping animals consists of delayed stall, rotational
circulation and wake capture [10]. These phenomenon and their functions can be explained
by experiments and theories. However, complete and exact analysis of the flapping flight
is not available because of the aerodynamic and mechanical complexity. As a result, In
Ref. [4] Kim developed a smart flapping wing with a macro-fiber compositers (MFC) actu-
ator to mimic the flying mechanism to measure the aerodynamic forces of flapping devices
in wind tunnel test. Furthermore, In Ref. [7] Rakotomamonjy investigates the optimization
of the flapping kinematics of the wing. In the full dynamic model of flapping MAV, Zaeem
∗Tse-Ming Yang is with graduate student of Aerospace Engineering, Tamkang University, Tamsui 251,
Taiwan, ROC 492370365@s92.tku.edu.tw
†Fu-Yuen Hsiao is with faculty of Aerospace Engineering,Tamkang University, Tamsui 251, Taiwan, ROC
fyhsiao@mail.tku.edu.tw
1
a)
Center of gravityxb
zb b) zb
yb
The main wing of MAV
The vertical wing of MAV
Figure 2: A cartoon showing the definition of the body-fixed frame.
axis of the fuselage in the MAV’s plane of symmetry. The yb-axis is normal to the plane
of symmetry pointing in the direction of the right wing. The zb-axis then points down-
ward in the MAV plane of symmetry, completing the right-handed Cartesian system. In
addition, the coordinates in the inertial frame are denoted as (xf , yf , zf) in this paper. The
transformation between these two frames can be accomplished by a rotational matrix R,
satisfying
Vf = RVb (1)
R˙ = Rω˜ (2)
where Vf and Vb denote any vectors in the inertial and body-fixed frames, respectively. ω˜
is the cross product operator of the angular velocity ω = (ωx, ωy, ωz) [8].
3.2 Equations of Motion
The equations of motion of the flapping wing MAV can be obtained by applying Newton’s
second laws, given by
∑
F = m d
dt
V + ω × (mV) (3)
∑
M = I d
dt
ω + ω × (Iω) (4)
where I denotes the inertia tensor. The external forces includes the weight of the vehicle,
aerodynamical forces by flapping wing, horizontal tail wing, and vertical tail. Those forces
also generates moments about the center of gravity (CG). As a result, the expansion of
Eqs. (3) and (4) can be found in [6] The components of forces and moments, Fxb , Fyb , Fzb
and Mxb , Myb , Mzb , are the force and moment along the xb, yb and zb axis in the body-fixed
coordinate system, respectively. The Euler angles can be computed from the rotation rates,
given by:
ψ˙ = p + q sinψ tan θ + r cosφ tan θ (5)
θ˙ = q cos φ− r sin φ (6)
ψ˙ = q sinψ sec θ + r cosφ sec θ (7)
By solving Eqs. (3) and (4), the location, velocity and attitude of the MAV can be described
as a function of time.
3
where Φ, f , and b are stroke angle, flapping frequency, and wing semi-span, respectively.
Typically, unsteady-state flight has advance ratio J less than 1. Low advance ratio J is
an indication that these flyers must flap their wings at high speed compared to the speed
of their flights in order to stay aloft. Therefore, the regime of J < 1 is dominated by
unsteady-state flight. On the other hand, for J  1, the flight regime becomes quasi-
steady and approaches steady-state. For example, a fixed-wing airplane operates in the
regime of J near infinite because the wings’ flapping frequency is zero. The lift and thrust
forces can be expressed as functions of J [2]
Flift =
1
2
ρU2SCL(J) (9)
Fthrust =
1
2
ρU2SCT (J) (10)
where CL(J) and CT (J), as functions of J , denote the lift coefficient and thrust coefficient,
respectively.
Here we claim that the forces calculated from the lift or thrust coefficient as a function
of J can be treated as the averaged force. A simple proof goes below. Consider a very
a)
Φ
l
b
dl
W
b)
ﬂapping down
U
v = lωV α
α
Figure 4: A cartoon showing the definition of wing parameters.
thing rectangular wing, as shown in Fig. 4(a), with length b, width W , stroke angle Φ,
and flapping frequency ω = 2πf . Assume the setting angle is zero so that the angle of
attack (AOA) is determined by the attacking angle of the incoming air stream completely.
Consider a small area element on the wing, whose flapping motion is shown in Fig. 4(b).
According to aerodynamics theory, the lift force generated by this element is formulated as
dF =
1
2
ρV 2CL(α)dA (11)
where V 2 = U2 + (lω)2, dA = Wdl, and
α = arctan
(
lω
U
)
To simply the notation we define l/b = γ. Introducing the advance ratio we obtain
lω =
γπ
JΦ
U
5
where C ′L(J) = C ′Ld(J) + C
′
Lu(J). We can see that the average force has the same formu-
lation as Eqs. (9) and (10).
We would admit that this is not a rigorous proof because many aerodynamics factors are
not considered, such as the stability of the air flow, the flexibility of the wing and so on.
However, at least this proof gives a qualitative link between the average force used in the
dynamics field and the most common way to formulate flapping lift and trust forces in the
aerodynamics field. In other words, if we have the lift and thrust coefficient curves at hand,
which are usually easy to obtain in aerodynamics journals, we can simply apply the same
methodology of analyzing a fixed-wing vehicle to the analysis of a flapping-wing robot.
3.4 Formulation of Forces and Moments
Having shown that the average forces over one flapping period can be calculated by using
Eqs. (9) and (10), which is independent of time, we conclude that the methodology to
analyze a fixed wing vehicle can be applied to the flapping wing vehicle. There are only
two differences. First of all, the force coefficients CL and CT are no longer functions of
angle of attack only, but also functions of advance ration. Second, when applied to analyze
the dynamics of the whole vehicle, we don’t use angle of attack since it is not rigorously
defined in flapping motion. Instead, the set angle and stroke angle are introduced.
Figure 5 provides the distribution of aerodynamics forces on the wing. As a result,
provided Eqs. (9) and (10) Fxb and Fzb can be obtained by considering the vector addition
of the lift and thrust forces.
Fzbwing = Fthrust sin(α)− Flift cos(α) (16)
Fxbwing = Fthrust cos(α) + Flift sin(α) (17)
where α is set angle of MAV.
a) V
v1
V1
α1
F1
T1
L1
b)
V
V2 v2
T2
F2 L2
α2
Figure 5: The aerodynamic force distribution during downstroke and upstroke.
On the other hand, the moments exerted on the MAV can be obtained through summing
up all individual moment and torque. All the necessary geometric parameters to calcu-
late moments are shown in Fig. 6. In addition to the regular formulation of moments,
one thing to remind again is that we have to consider the torque applied by the motor,
7
Figure 7: The variation of lift and thrust forces during a flapping period.
4.2 Coefficients of the Horizontal Wing
In addition to the main wing, there are still two other wings, the vertical and the horizontal
wing, should be considered. Since these two wings are fixed, the conventional aerodynam-
ics theory can be applied.
Although the most confidential way to obtain the force coefficients of the vertical and
tail wings is to do the wind tunnel test, in the preliminary analysis we introduce the so
called “Prandtl’s Theory” This practical theory to predict the aerodynamic properties of a
finite wing was developed by Ludwig Prandtl and his colleagues. Different from airfoil
theory, dealing with an infinite wing, a finite wing is considered so that the induced drag is
revealed in this theory too,
CD,i =
C2L
πAR
(20)
Eq. (20) is an important result. It states that the induced drag coefficient is directly pro-
portional to the square of the lift coefficient. Hence, induced drag is intimately related to
the production of lift on a finite wing; indeed, induced drag is frequently called the drag
due to lift. Another important aspect of induced drag is evident in Eq. (20); that is, CD,i is
inversely proportional to aspect ratio. Hence, to reduce the induced drag, we want a finite
wing with the highest possible aspect ratio.
In our tail wing, we select a wing whose shape is showed in Fig. 9. It is a back swept
wing, and the coefficient of lift can be derived as
CLtail =
2π cos Λ√
1 + P 2 + P
αtail (21)
where
P =
2π cos Λ
πAR
,
9
a) 0 0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
0.4
0.45
0.5
0
0.02
0.04
0.06
1.99
1.995
2
2.005
2.01
2.015
2.02
2.025
2.03
xf (m)
yf (m)
z f
 
(m
)
b) 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500
−40
−35
−30
−25
−20
−15
−10
−5
0
5
TIme step
θ 
(ra
d)
c) 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500
−0.08
−0.07
−0.06
−0.05
−0.04
−0.03
−0.02
−0.01
0
0.01
0.02
Time step
M
y b
 
(N
−m
)
Figure 10: The flight trajectory in case 1.The time history of pitch angle (θ)Myb in case 1.
a) 0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
1.4
−0.035
−0.03
−0.025
−0.02
−0.015
−0.01
−0.005
0
1.95
2
2.05
2.1
2.15
2.2
2.25
2.3
2.35
2.4
xf (m)
yf (m)
z f
 
(m
)
b) 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500
−3
−2
−1
0
1
2
3
Time step
θ 
(ra
d)
Figure 11: The flight trajectory in case 2.
applied to this vehicle is the torque of the motor, which controls the flapping frequency.
In other words, there is no control of direction. The flight trajectory, however, is spiral.
This is resulted from the torque generated by the motor due to the conservation of angular
momentum.
4.4 Numerical Simulation
4.4.1 Attitude Equilibria at Cruise Flight
At cruise flight the MAV must be in the equilibria of its attitude. According to our model,
we obtain that the pitch angle at cruise flight must be 12◦. Examining Fig. 3 we realize that
the Golden Snitch flies at the angle of 15◦. This is encouraging since our prediction is quite
close to the reality. However, this fact also implies that the predicted lift force at wing tail
may be too large so that the pitch angle is smaller than the real one. This fact will later on
affect the simulation of flight trajectory.
11
complete dynamical model.
6 Acknowledgement
The work described here is funded by the National Science Council through project NSC
96-2221-E-032-015. The authors wish to thank Dr. Lung-Jieh Yang and his research group
for providing flight test and wind tunnel test data.
References
[1] M.H. Dickinson, F.O. Lehmann, and S.P. Sane, “Wing rotation and the aerodynamic
basis of insect flight,” Science, Vol. 284, pp. 1954-1960, 1999
[2] C. K. Hsu, The Preliminary Design, Fabrication, and Testing of Flapping Micro
Aerial Vehicles, Ph.D. Dissertation, Tamkang University, 2008
[3] Z.A. Khan, and S.K. Agrawal, “Control of Longitudinal Flight Dynamics of a
Flapping-Wing Micro Air Vehicle Using Time-Averaged Model and Differential
Flatness Based Controller,” Proceedings of the 2007 American Control Conference,
pp. 5284-5289, 2007
[4] Dae-Kwan Kim, and Jae-Hung Han, “Smart flapping wing using Macro-Fiber Com-
posite actuators,” Proceeding of Smart Structures and Materials, 2006
[5] U.M. Norberg, Vertebrate Flight: Mechanics, Physiology, Morphology, Ecology and
Evolution, Springer-Verlag, 1990
[6] W.F. Phillips, Mechanics of Flight, John Wiley & Sons, 2004
[7] T. Rakotomamonjy, M. Ouladsine, and T. Le Moing, “Modelization and Kinematics
Optimization for a Flapping-Wing Microair Vehicle,” Journal of Aircraft, Vol. 44,
2007
[8] L. Schenato, D. Campolo, and S. Sastry, “Controllability issuse in flapping flight
for biomimic MAVs,” Proceedings of the 42nd IEEE Conference on Decision and
Control, pp. 6441-6447, 2003
[9] M. Sun, J. Wang and Y. Xiong, “Dynamic flight stability of hovering insects,” Acta
Mechanica Sinica, 2007
[10] J. Yan, R.J. Wood, S.S. Avadhanula, , R.S.M. Fearing, “Towards flapping wing control
for a micromechanical flying insect,” IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation, 2001
13
AUTONOMOUS HOVER OF UNMANNED AERIAL HELICOPTERS
Y. S. Chen
Department of Aerospace Engineering
Tamkang University
151 Ying-Zhuan Rd.
Tamsui 251, Taiwan
Email: 695430297@s95.tku.edu.tw
F. Y. Hsiao (Corresponding Author)
Department of Aerospace Engineering
Tamkang University
151 Ying-Zhuan Rd.
Tamsui 251, Taiwan
Email: fyhsiao@mail.tku.edu.tw
ABSTRACT
The autonomous hover of unmanned helicopters and de-
sign of controllers are presented in this paper. A Thunder
Tiger Raptor-90 helicopter (renamed as H-Ling) is selected
to investigate. Starting from the identified model of H-
Ling we design proportional-integral-derivative (PID) con-
trollers to stabilize its attitude in hover. Although the gen-
eral dynamics of a helicopter is highly coupled and nonlin-
ear, for the purpose of implementation we here only discuss
control of dynamics of four main channels, cyclic lateral
input to rolling rate, cyclic longitudinal input to pitching
rate, pedal input to yawing rate, and collective pitch input
to vertical motions, in the neighborhood of hovering state.
Environment disturbances such as wind gusts, modeled as
Gaussian random variables, are also included in the anal-
ysis and the Ziegler-Nichols Tuning Method is selected to
determine control gains. Numerical simulations and com-
parisons with flight test data are provide to shown the ef-
fectiveness of our design.
KEY WORDS
PID control, rotorcraft, Ziegler-Nichols Tuning Method,
unmanned Aerial Helicopter (UAH), autonomous flight
1 Introduction
Autonomous flight of an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) is
of great interests among researches recently for its miscel-
laneous applications. One branch of UAV, the unmanned
aerial helicopter (UAH), however, is more attractive due to
its excellent abilities of vertical take-off and hover above a
fixed region. This ability widens the applications, such as
battleground monitoring, executing missions that may be
dangerous to crewmembers, close-up inspection of terrain,
and so on. A helicopter, however, is very sensitive to per-
turbations. A small offset from nominal state may cause the
instability of this vehicle, leading to crash eventually. As a
result, attitude control of a UAH plays an very important
row in the realization and implementation of autonomous
flight.
The research of unmanned helicopter starts in early
1990’s. Cooperating with NASA and the US Army Mettler
and Tischler developed an algorithm, the so-called “Com-
prehensive Identification from the FrEquency Responses
(CIFER)” package, for the identification of parameterized
model of an aerial vehicle [6, 10]. Mettler then extended
his work to the autonomous flight of small-scaled heli-
copters, the Yamaha R-50 and X-Cell 60 helicopters [5].
Some other rotorcraft flight control researches than Met-
tler’s work include Postlethewaite using H∞ control [19],
Weilenmann using multivariable control design techniques
(LQ, H∞, H2, and μ-synthesis) [15, 16, 17], or alternative
algorithms such as fuzzy [8] and state feedback and multi-
rate [13].
In this paper, we don’t intend to develop a new con-
trol law. Instead, we mainly focus on the implementation
of controllers. Starting from the parameterized model pre-
sented in our previous work [11], we are to design and im-
plement controllers to stabilize the attitude of H-Ling in
hover. To simplify the future implementation work, we as-
sume that the motion in the neighborhood is decoupled and
linear. PID controllers are then selected as the algorithm
and the Ziegler-Nichols Tuning Method are applied to pick
up parameters.
In specific, the linearized model of the Thunder Tiger
Raptor 90 helicopter is presented with parameters identi-
fied in Ref. [11]. We can then obtain the transfer functions
of the four main channels, of which every channel are as-
sumed decoupled. With the concept of hierarchical struc-
ture design and the application of the Ziegler-Nichols Tun-
ing Method we design PID controllers that stabilize the dy-
namics of the four channel and reshape their performance.
Disturbances from the environment such as wind, as well
as constraints from hardware are also considered during
the analysis. Numerical simulations and comparison with
flight test data are provided to ensure the validity and ro-
bustness of our design. Flight test of our implementation is
already scheduled and the ultimate goal of this project is to
build a fully functional autonomous UAH.
2 Dynamics Model
The investigated H-Ling is a Thunder Tiger Raptor 90 heli-
copter, as shown in Fig. 1, whose characteristic parameters
are listed in Table 1. Generally speaking, the dynamics of
a small-scaled helicopter is similar to a full-scaled one, but
there exist two main differences. First, to increase the lon-
gitudinal and lateral stabilities a small-scaled helicopter is
2.2 Transfer functions in hover
Although the dynamics of a helicopter is highly coupled
even under a linearized model, shown in Ref. [6], the cou-
pling effect between states is very small provided that the
perturbation is not too large. Hence, to simplify the fu-
ture implementations only the four main channels are to be
controlled. They are cyclic lateral input to rolling, cyclic
longitudinal input to pitching, pedal input to yawing, and
collective pitch input to vertical motions. By substituting
the parameters identified in Ref. [11] we obtain the transfer
functions, given by
p
δlat
=
852.5
s2 + 4.545s + 558.8
(9)
q
δlon
=
645.5
s2 + 4.545s + 356.3
(10)
r
δped
=
30s + 282
s2 + 14.1s + 55.46
(11)
ω
δcol
=
85.5
s + 16.2
(12)
2.3 Stability Analysis
The stability of the four main motions is attainable by an-
alyzing Eqs. (9) to (12). Although all of the four transfer
functions have their poles in the left-hand plane, implying
that all of the motions are stable, some of them are very
close to the imaginary axis, leading poor performances. For
instance, the rolling motion has damping ratio ζ = 0.1 and
phase margin PM = 12◦; the pitching motion has damp-
ing ratio ζ = 0.12 and phase margin PM = 13◦. These
features indicate that a small perturbation may cause large
overshoot, which eventually brings the whole helicopter to
fall into the unstable manifold. As a result, it is necessary
for us to reshape the performance of the helicopter with
controllers.
3 Control of H-Ling
As is stated in the preceding section, the performance of
H-Ling is poor and needs reshaping despite its stability.
For the future implementation, the proportional-integral-
differential (PID) controllers are selected. The Ziegler-
Nichols Tuning Method are also applied to decide parame-
ters.
3.1 Design Consideration
3.1.1 Specifications
Since a helicopter is very sensitive to disturbances, indi-
cated from the equations of motion in the proceeding sec-
tion, we would like the system converge to the nominal
state as soon as possible without a severe overshoot. Ac-
cordingly, we set settling time within 2 seconds and over-
shoot under 10%. Here is a list of those specifications:
• Settling time (ts) : No more than 2 seconds
• Overshoot (Mo) : under 10%
• Steady-state error (ess) : No more than 0.05%
3.1.2 Implementation Hardware
The on-board computer along with sensors and actuators
are equipped to control the attitude of the helicopter, as
shown in Figs. 4(a) and (b). The attitude is measured by
the inertial measurement unit (IMU) and global position-
ing system (GPS). Along with the reference attitude, the
control signal is then computed in the on-board computer,
a PC-104 embedded microcomputer, and encoded into the
PWM signal to drive servos. These equipments are briefly
introduced as follows.
• OBC: The PC-104 is selected as the flight computer.
The main role of the on-board computer is to receive
commands and measurements, compute the control
signal, and drive servos.
• IMU: We originally adopted the Crossbow
AHRS400CC-100 as the IMU, but change to the
Xsense recently due to the worse performance of
AHRS. Table 2 lists some characteristics of the
Crossbow AHRS400CC-100.
Resolution
Attitude < 0.1◦
Heading < 0.1◦ rms
Angular Rate < 0.025 ◦/sec
Acceleration < 0.25 mg rms
Table 2. Characteristics of the Crossbow AHRS400CC-
100
• GPS: The global positioning system, (GPS), includ-
ing the antenna and Septentrio PolaRx2@ GPS Re-
ceiver, is equipped as an auxiliary device to calibrate
the measurements of IMU. The characteristics of the
Septentrio GPS receiver is listed in Table 3.
Accuracy & Performance
Position Vertical: 1.9 m, Horizontal: 1.1 m
Velocity Vertical: 2.8 mm/s, Horizontal:1.5 mm/s
Update rate Up to 10 Hz raw measurement output rate
Up to 10 Hz position output rate
Channel 48 hardware channels
Table 3. The characteristics of the Septentrio GPS receiver
• Other equipments: For the sake of safety, the heli-
copter are designed to be controlled both automati-
cally and manually. When under manual-flight mode,
3.4 Design Results
Having applied the above rules, we pick up parameters to
reshape performance of the H-Ling attitude in hover. All
the parameters are listed in Table 3.4.
Attitude Kp Ki Kd
Rolling Rate 0.4 4.1 0.01
Pitching Rate 0.3 2.7 0.01
Yawing Rate 10 1.5 0
Vertical Position 1 0 0.01
Rolling Angle 3 0 0.2
Pitching Angle 3 0 0.2
Yawing Angle 5.3 0 1.8
Table 5. Selected parameters to reshape performance of the
H-Ling attitude in hover
4 Numerical Simulations
In this section numerical simulations are provided to
demonstrate results of our design. The helicopter is not
only stabilized, but also meets the design specifications.
In detail, Fig. 5 provides the block diagram of roll- ,
pitch- , and yaw-angle control, while Fig. 7(a), 7(b) and
8(a) provides the simulated results of the roll- , pitch- , and
yaw-angle, respectively. It is obvious that all responses sat-
isfy design specifications.
Figure 6 provides the block diagram of vertical posi-
tion control, while Fig. 8(b) provides the simulated result.
We can see that the response to a unit step input has over-
shoot lass than 3%, rising time of 0.7 seconds, and settling
time 1.5 seconds.
Figure 5. Block-diagram of roll-, pitch-, and yaw-angle
control
Figure 6. Block-diagram of vertical motion control
a) b)
Figure 7. Numerical simulation results of (a) roll angle
control; (b) pitch angle control.
a) b)
Figure 8. Numerical simulation results of (a) yaw angle
control; (b) vertical motion control.
5 Comparison with Flight Data
The specifications defined for our helicopters have been
shown satisfied through numerical simulations. However,
flight test should be done to verify that these controllers are
indeed working.
Before flight test, another examination is done to en-
sure the robustness of all controllers. We assume that all
control signals from different “pilots” (human beings and
controlling chips) should be consistent, although magni-
tude and small oscillatory period may vary from case to
case. That is, all control signals from on-board computer
should follow certain trend or patterns same as what has
been done by a skilled human pilot. As a result, we com-
pute our control input from the real flight data (by human
pilot) and examine the trend and patterns.
The results are show in Fig. 9(a) and (b). We can see
that the control signal from OBC follows the same trend
and patterns as what has been done by a skilled human pi-
lot, but with much smaller magnitude, implying that the
computer did a better work than a human pilot did. The
human eyes cannot detect errors unless they are very large.
Accordingly, the magnitude of control signal must be al-
ways large since the attitude deviations are usually large,
leading to severe wobbling of helicopter. The smaller mag-
nitude of control signals from OBC, resulted from rapid
response to attitude errors, instead cause less wobbling of
helicopter, and hence has better performance.
6 Conclusions
In this paper we design and implement controllers for the
autonomous hover of unmanned helicopters. Given the
identified model of H-Ling, a Thunder Tighter R-90 he-
licopter, proportional-integral-derivative (PID) controllers,
based on the hierarchical design and the Ziegler-Nichols
