section 5. 
2. Related work 
Imaging systems and image archives have often been described as an important 
economic and clinical factor in the hospital environment [10]. Several methods of 
computer vision and image processing have already been proposed for use in 
medicine [11]. Medical images have often been used for retrieval systems, and the 
medical domain is often cited as one of the principal domains for the application of 
content-based access technologies [12] [13] [14] in terms of potential impact.  
In general image-retrieval systems, color is the most outstanding feature and 
color histogram methods [15] have shown good performance for retrieval of similar 
images. Color is the most preeminent feature used for describing visual content. 
Starting with Swain & Ballard, who introduce the color histogram as an image 
descriptor; extensive research has been done to explore the expressiveness of color 
with respect to the visual content. The color system employed is of great importance 
for the accuracy of retrieval as well as the degree of quantization and illumination 
influence. Due to its statistical nature, the histogram is not intended for precise 
searches (e.g. to detect or recognize objects), but for the general purpose of image 
retrieval it is a valuable tool because it can yield reasonably good results fast. 
Several color histograms have been directly derived from the standard color 
histogram and aim to offer some improvements. Pass & Zabih [16] propose to split 
the pixels in a given image into several classes, based upon some local property. They 
call the resulting histogram color coherence vector (CCV) and it can be used to 
distinguish images whose color histograms are otherwise indistinguishable. More 
information on color image descriptors and the state of the art may be found in Del 
Bimbo [14], Manjunath et al. [18] and Gevers & Smeulders [12]. 
Color histograms measure the proportion of each color in an image. They is fast 
to compute and are not influenced by rotation and small variations in camera 
viewpoints. Methods using color histograms can find similar images that contain the 
same color ratio; however, color histograms are not able to describe the spatial 
distribution of each color. As a result, an image containing a mass of yellow color 
may have the same quantity of yellow as an image containing many small spots of 
yellow color. Another drawback of the histogram method is influenced by 
illumination, because it uses absolute quantization to extract the feature vector. The 
variance in their illumination will influence the value of pixels. 
Many variants and extended histogram methods have been proposed to conquer 
the drawback of losing spatial relationship. In this paper we propose a new 
representation which is accomplished by illumination invariance to describe the 
distribution of spatial information. The proposed representation is very concise and 
the experiment shows that our method outperforms previous efforts. 
We design a medical image retrieval system for clinical students to learn or 
patients to understand relevant health conditions. The images contain a variety of 
types, thus we consider global and local image features and expect to describe variety 
type of images. In Section 3, we defined proposed relative vector representation 
methods. Based on the relative vector, we can extract the local and global feature 
without being influenced by illumination. 
 
 
 
 
Each pixel refers to four neighboring pixels and will fall into a class. Next, we 
calculate the occurrence frequency, average distribution distance and spatial standard 
deviation of each class as the glob feature of an image. As an image, the final 
signature representation totally has 243 vectors. We will now describe the calculation 
of average distribution distance and spatial standard deviation.  
There are n pixels in a class. (xi, yi) are the coordinates of pixel pi, and (ux, uy) is 
the centroid of the pixels. ud is the average distance of pixels from (ux, uy). std is the 
standard deviation of pixels from (ux, uy). The calculation equation is described as 
following. 
∑∑
==
==
n
i
iy
n
i
ix yn
x
n 11
1,1 μμ  
∑
=
−+−=
n
i
yixi uyuxn
d
1
22 )()(1μ  
22 )()( yixii uyuxd −+−=   
∑
=
−=
n
i
i uddstd
1
2)(  
For each class, we get the ud and std as the moment of spatial distribution to 
describe the global spatial relationship. An iImage will first be translated into an 
illumination invariant vector space. We calculate the occurrence frequency, average 
distance and standard deviation of each class as the feature of an image. As an image, 
signature representation totally has 243 vectors in total. 
The similarity between two images is evaluated by a distance metric. Two 
images Ia and Ib that have smaller distance are more similar. The equation (2) is the 
distance metric formula. 
 
SIM(Ia,Ib)=∑  (2) 
= −×+−
×+×+−80
0 |))()(||)()((|
|)()(||)()(|
i biaibiai
biaibiai
IstdIstdIudIud
IfIfIfIf
λ
α
 
Where fi is the occurrence frequency of classi, udi is the average distance of pixels 
from centroid of classi and stdi is the standard deviation of distance with respect to the 
average distance. We set α=0.3 and λ=1 in this paper. 
 
4. Experiment and Result 
In this section, we show the experimental results and evaluate the performance of our 
proposed techniques. The image database used in our experiment contains 1000 
medical images. Images have a single 8-bit channel with 256 gray levels. All images 
are resized into 256×256 pixels. They are categorized into 50 classes (including 
Cranium, Spine, Thoracic, Hand, Lumbar, and Abdomen, etc.), each class has about 
20 medical images. We test 100 queries; each class picks up two images as queries. 
The performance is normally evaluated based on precision and recall as defined 
in Eq. (3) and (4) 
 
 
Figure 2: A query result of Cranium example 
 
 
Figure 3: A query result of Chest example 
 
5. Conclusion 
In this paper we propose a relative vector method to represent medical images. 
Although the color histogram of content-based image retrieval method performs well 
with general-propose color images, unlike general-propose color images X-ray images 
only contain gray-level pixels. Thus, we concentrate on the contrasting representation 
of images. 
The medical image application is unlike applications for general-purpose images. 
In general purpose images, the representation always considers that image rotation, 
zooming, and shift are invariant. Medical images have more stable camera settings 
than general purpose images; therefore, the spatial information becomes very 
important in medical images, and we must improve the representation of spatial 
relations in these kind of images. 
The image representations we propose have obtained better results than previous 
works. The relative vector representation is immune to defective illumination. A total 
