forward to any docking algorithm. We screen a small 
set of binding sites for this purpose. In average, 
45%~55% of proteins in the database are screened out. 
This reduces a lot of effort for docking computation.
英文關鍵詞： Protein-protein recognition, Genetic programming, 
Classification and screening 
 
We investigate the important characteristics which are used in predicting protein-protein recognition. 
In this paper, we classify protein interaction type by genetic algorithm. 
 
2. Related works 
 
Proteins perform their functions through different kinds of interactions. Therefore, understanding 
the functions of proteins is noteworthy in biochemistry researches. 
Loris Nanni et al. [23] used the genetic programming and the features of Chou’s pseudo amino acids. 
They extracted the artificial features by basic amino acids, and extracted the new features with the 
artificial features by genetic programming. Finally, they improve the classification accuracy with SVM 
by GP. 
In Sung Hee Park et al. [17] study, they employed Association Rule Based Classification (ARBC), 
which included association rule generation and posterior classification to predict the protein-protein 
interaction with the 14 generated physicochemical properties and structural features on protein 
complex binding sites, and they classified the interaction proteins to these four types, and they were 
Enzyme-inhibitor (ENZ) interactions, non-Enzyme-inhibitor (non-ENZ) interactions hetero-obligate 
(HET) interaction, and homo-obligate (HOM). 
In the literature of binding site prediction, some of them focus on the feature definitions. They 
found the features on the binding site, and those features have the high relationship to help prediction 
of binding site. There are studies about the features on the interaction binding site. Patel et al [26] 
pointed out some attributes, which were often be used, such as hydrophobicity, accessible surface area, 
shape index, electrostatic potential, curvedness, and conservation score. Block et al [2] mentioned that 
obligate and transient protein complexes have different patterns of hydrophobic, aromatic, polar 
surface patches, and charged hydrogen bonds. Some studies apply Support Vector Machine [3][16][5], 
Neural Network [36][6][7], Association Rule [6][25][4], and other machine learning methods to 
classify the protein-protein interaction using above features. 
In Liu et al. [17], they used the SVM classifier with the well-known features, sequence profile, 
temperature factor and accessible surface area to identify interaction sites. 
The study of protein-protein interaction can be either classifying type of protein-protein 
interaction or prediction of whether two proteins interact or not. 
 Kuo et al. [14] used the three-dimension coordinate of residues of the protein complex 
on the binding site, and projected them onto a circular grid to obtain the two-dimension data, 
and then they extracted features from the two-dimension data. Then, they used the association 
rule to find out the patterns on the protein complex binding site, and it achieved the accuracy of 
78%. In another study of Kuo et al. [15], they classified recognition protein complexes and 
executed the new features with genetic programming, and they compared with basic support 
vector machine and neural network. It achieved the average classification accuracy of 86%. 
Protein-protein docking is related to protein-protein interaction. It assumes two proteins 
interact and computes the most appropriate orientation to bind the two proteins [18]. 
Neuvirth et al. [24] analyzed the non-homologous protein surface with bound and unbound 
states. They discovered that the β-sheets, polar and hydrophobic can recognize protein surface. 
The surface of binding site has more β-sheets, and the polar and hydrophobic tend to cluster in 
interface. They use these properties to predict the interface of proteins, and it can reach to 70% 
successfully. 
In recent years, genetic programming has already been used for solving many problems such 
as the field of graphics, network, biology, classifier et al. There are some researches about 
genetic programming. 
Kouchakpour et al. [12] focused on the population variation of GP. They advocated the 
performance can enhance by reducing the computational effort during the running of GP. They 
pointed out the important parameters; the population size of GP affects the performance of 
standard GP. 
In this paper, we use the genetic programming to perform classification and screening of 
recognition protein complexes. The model is trained based on the physicochemical properties of 
amino acids on concave and convex binding sites of protein complexes. 
 
farthest pair of residues on the projection plane. The short axis is orthogonal to the long axis. One can 
draw a square alone with the long and short axes to cover all the projected residues. The concave shape 
binding site is processed identically. 
Figure 1 shows the squares of the binding sites of chain A and chain D of PDB id 1A2K protein 
complex. The area and shape are very similar, so the long and short axes can be an important point of 
the shape of binding site. 
 
 
Figure 1. Squares to Demonstrate Long and Short Axes 
 
We use the data of recognition protein complexes organized by Mintseris and Weng [21]. There are 
209 identified transient protein complexes. And there are 76 obligate protein complexes organized by 
Ponstingl, et al. [27], and 367 immune proteins (obligate complexes) come from PDB 
(http://www.rcsb.org/pdb/home/home.do). [1] These immune proteins are selected by its structure. We 
choose the complex structure, which is composed of two proteins, because in our work we would like 
to predict that one protein can interact with which protein. If we consider the complex composed of 
three or more proteins, we will hardly extract the features, and we have to consider another chemical 
effect which may affect us to predict the protein interactions. Finally, we arrange the data and choose 
the appropriate data, and we can get the 654 interaction complexes. In which there are 209 transient 
protein complexes and 445 obligate protein complexes. 
 
4. Fitness Functions for GP Classification 
 
In 1992, Koza [13] proposed genetic programming, the extension from genetic algorithm. Genetic 
programming is a kind of evolution computing method. There are two common presentation forms for 
chromosomes, also called programs, in genetic programming: linear list and tree.  
GP solves problem generally follow this four steps: 
Step 1: It must initialize states, which is functions, terminals and population size. 
Step 2: Excuse the fitness value of the all program trees in the population. 
Step 3: Create a new population of program trees by crossover, mutation and reproduction. 
Step 4: After the best program tree appears in any generation, the program tree is the result of 
genetic programming. 
In this paper, we use the tree form. The operations in a tree include +, -, *, and /. Operations are the 
internal nodes of a tree. While the leaf nodes are the numeric features of the physicochemical 
properties information of the binding sites. 
For a protein complex, the programming tree computes a number based on the numeric features of 
the binding sites. Then, for classifying a protein complex, a protein complex is classified as transient if 
the number computed by the tree is larger (or smaller, depending on model construction) than a certain 
numeric value. 
In recent years, the genetic programming has been used for the problems of hydrology routing, 
biology, graphic network, and classifier [20][15][23][8]. 
The fitness function is an important issue in genetic programming. The crossover and mutation all 
depend on it. A good fitness definition helps genetic programming to select the better programs to the 
The Zero_thresold is the deformation of Average_range. In the Average_range, we use the 
median of average of transient and obligate to be the threshold to separate out data. In this 
section, we try to let the transient complexes tend to the left side of zero and obligate complexes 
tend to the right side of zero. In the training phase, if the program trees can separate well, it can 
represent the performance of program tress. 
 
4.4. Classification_accuracy 
 
The Average_range and Overlap_percentage are the indirect ideas to help us set the fitness definition 
to divide the transient and obligate protein complexes. We use the results of transient and obligate sets 
under executing by genetic programming to formulate the fitness definitions. So, we present these two 
indirect fitness definitions. 
 In this section, we use the direct classification accuracy to stand for the fitness. To execute the 
classification accuracy of every program in a population in training, and the classification rate can direct 
be regarded as the fitness value. 
 This fitness directly uses the average of average of TCN and average of OCN as dividing point, 
i.e., 2/)()( OCNavgTCNavg + . And then it computes the classification accuracy for all TC and OC 
complexes. 
 
5. Experimental results 
 
In the section, we perform the results, which are classification experiments with two different 
classifiers. One is our Genetic programming model, and another is the support vector machine, and we 
compare the classification accuracy rates for the GP using the above fitness functions. 
In our experiment, we have a skew distribution problem of the unbalanced dataset, because the 
transient complexes cannot easy be discovered different with the obligate complexes. The skew 
distribution problem has these different evaluations, and there are Mean Average Precision, Precision 
Recall breakpoint, Receiver Operator Characteristic and R50 [30]. The Mean Average Precision score 
is used to present the results of recall and precision. The Precision Recall breakpoint is a value, which 
is defined as when the recall and precision are the same between different thresholds. Receiver 
Operator Characteristic plots against the true positive and false positive for the different thresholds. 
Finally, the R50 measures the area of the Receiver Operator Characteristic curve, and when it reaches 
to fifty negative predictions, it will stop. There are these four basic ways to deal with the skew 
distribution problem, but the genetic programming is easier affected to tend to over-fitting. It is that our 
GP tends to the obligate complexes, because the number of obligate complexes is more than the 
number of transient complexes. We cannot use these evaluations to deal with, so we chose the accuracy 
to be our evaluation. 
In the setting of GP, we limit the program tree size under the 25 nodes, which include the internal 
nodes and leaf nodes, and the population sizes are 1500 to 3000 increasing by 500, and we train the 
model generation by generation until the maximum fitness value dose not vary in the continue 15 
generations. There are total 209 transient protein complexes and 445 obligate protein complexes. And 
we use the 10-flod cross-validation to classify transient and obligate protein complexes. 
Support vector machine is executed with the type is C-SVC and the kernel is radial basis function 
(RBF). And we also use the 10-flod cross-validation to classify transient and obligate protein 
complexes. 
 
5.1. Classification 
 
Transient complexes are considered as positive cases. We compare accuracy for the 
fitness functions and SVM. Figure 3 shows the result of these four fitness function 
designs and SVM, and population sizes are 1500 to 3000 increasing by 500 with the 
interface of complex and concave and convex binding sites.  
Hence, we conduct classification on the same complex dataset by SVM with REF 
kernel. Then, we compare the accuracy between using GP with four fitness definitions 
Like in the training stage of the classification task, GP trees with large fitness values according to 
the chosen fitness function survive and reproduce their offspring. Without loss of generality, we 
assume the computed numbers for transient complexes are mostly larger than those in obligate 
complexes for a GP tree in the training stage. 
In the screening stage, a GP tree computes numeric value for the query protein and each protein in 
the database. Proteins resulting in larger numeric values are retrieved. Screening performance of a GP 
tree is defined as the number of proteins that have to be retrieved from database, such that the protein 
that recognizes with the query protein is retrieved. 
The procedure is described as follows. 
(1) Each protein in the database and the query protein become a pair of proteins. 
(2) Compute the numeric value for the pair of proteins using the GP tree. 
(3) Sort the numeric values. 
(4) Find the position of the protein that recognizes with the query protein. The position indicates the 
number of proteins to be retrieved from database. This number is denoted as screening number in 
the following discussion. 
(5) Repeat the whole process for each query proteins. And, average the positions. 
Screening performance is further defined as the percentage of proteins in the database that are not 
necessary to be retrieved to user. Comparison of the average screening performance of the fitness 
function designs is shown in table 3. 
For example, the Classification_accuracy shows that the range of the average screening rate is from 
48% to 51%, which means in the database (654 proteins with convex binding site) our screening GP 
model screens out average 48% to 51% inappropriate proteins. 
We compare the screening rates of the fitness function designs. The Average_range fitness function 
has the best screening performance but it is not so stable for different population sizes. Over-fitting 
issue may be involved in this case. The other two fitness function designs have similar performance, 
and they have more stable screening numbers for different population sizes. Population size is not a 
very important parameter in this study. 
 The purpose in screening is that it can be used in the protein docking [18][24][31] . In the 
shape on the binding site of protein complex, the concave site is also called the docking site. In the 
drug design, they want to find the compound to fill out the interaction gaps of proteins. If the 
interaction gaps are filled out by compounds, it can block other proteins interact with it. For example, 
the viruses are a kind of protein, and they can interact with interaction gaps of proteins to cause disease. 
 
6. Conclusions 
 
In this paper, we applied genetic programming technique to classify protein-protein recognition and 
screen proteins, which might recognize with a query protein. Four fitness function definitions are 
proposed to empower genetic programming with classification ability. 
Different to most studies in protein-protein recognition, we do not use the relative position of the 
interacting proteins in a protein complex. This enables us to conduct screening task. However, this 
constraint excludes crucial information in protein complex for classification, and also prohibits us from 
comparing with other existing works. 
In our research, first, we formulate a rule to find the relationship of residues on the binding site; 
second, we extract the length of the long axis and short axis to replace the shape feature on concave and 
convex of complex binding site, and third, we formulate these four fitness definitions of genetic 
programming. 
In the future, we will incorporate amino acid patterns on binding site [14] for classification and 
screening. The patterns can be in the format of association rule. Hope that some kind of index can be 
constructed. And hence, while screening with GP, there will be no more need to compute numeric value 
for each protein in database. In the feature vector, we will reference other data types [38] [39], and we 
will integrate the different data to help us to do the prediction. 
 
7. References 
 
[1] H.M. Berman, J. Westbrook, Z. Feng, G. Gilliland, T.N. Bhat, H. Weissig, I.N. Shindyalov, and 
P.E. Bourne, “The Protein Data Bank,” Nucleic Acids Research, Vol. 28, No.1, pp. 235-242, 2000. 
[23] L. Nanni, A. Lumini, “Genetic Programming for Creating Chou’s Pseudo Amino Acid based 
Features for Submitochondria Localization,” Amino Acids, Vol. 34, No. 4, pp. 653-660, 2008. 
[24] H. Neuvirth, R. Raz, G. Schreiber, “ProMate: a Structure based Prediction Program to Identify the 
Location of Protein-protein Binding Sites,” Journal of Molecular Biology, Vol. 338, No. 1, pp. 181-
199, 2004. 
[25] S.H. Park, J.A. Reyes, D.R. Gilbert, J.W. Kim and S. Kim, “Prediction of Protein-protein 
Interaction Types using Association Rule based Classification,” BMC Bioinformatics, Vol. 10, No. 
36, 2009. 
[26] T. Petel, M. Pillay, R. Jawa, and L. Liao, “Information of Binding Sites Improves Prediction of 
Protein-Protein Interaction,” International Conference on Machine Learning and Applocations, pp. 
205-212, 2006. 
[27] H. Ponstingl, K. Henrick, and J.M. Thornton, “Discriminating between Homodimeric and 
Honomeric Proteins in the Crystalline State,” Proteins, Vol. 41, No. 1, pp.47-57, 2000. 
[28] A. Porollo, and J. Meller, “Prediction-Based Fingerprints of Protein – Protein Interactions,” 
PROTEINS: Structure, Function, and Bioinformatics, Vol. 66, No. 3, pp.630-645, 2007. 
[29] V. Potapov, V. Sobolev, M. Edelman, A. Kister and I. Gelfand, “Protein–Protein Recognition: 
Juxtaposition of Domain and Interface Cores in Immunoglobulins and Other Sandwich-like 
Proteins,” Journal of Molecular Biology, Vol. 324, No. 2, pp. 665–679, 2004. 
[30] Y. Qi, O. Tastan, J.G. Carbonell, J. K.S. and J. Weston, “Semi-supervised Multi-task Learning for 
Predicting Interactions between HIV-1 and Human Proteins,” Bioinformatics, Vol. 26, No. 18, pp. 
i645-i652, 2010. 
[31] S. Qin, H.X. Zhou, “meta-PPISP: a Meta Web Server for Protein-protein Interaction Site 
Prediction,” Bioinformatics, Vol. 23, No. 24, pp. 3386-3387, 2007. 
[32] C. Reynolds, D. Damerell, and S. Jones, “Protorp: a Protein-rotein Interaction Analysis Tool,” 
Bioinformatics, Vol. 25, No. 3, pp. 413-414, 2009. 
[33] A. Szil´agyi, V. Grimm, AK. Arakaki and J. Skolnick, “Prediction of Physical Protein–protein 
Interactions,” Physical Biology, Vol. 2, pp. 1-16, 2005. 
[34] B. Wang, P. Chen, D. S. Huang, J.J. Li, T.M. Lok, M.R. Lyu, “Predicting Protein Interaction Sites 
form Residue Spatial Sequence Profile and Evolution Rate,” Proceedings of the Federation of 
European Biochemical Societies Letters, Vol. 580, No. 2, pp. 380-384, 2006. 
[35] S.J. Wodak, J. Janin, “Computer Analysis of Protein–protein Interaction,” Journal of Molecular 
Biology, Vol. 124, No. 2, pp. 323–342, 1987. 
[36] B. Wang, H. S. Wong, P. Chen, H.-Q. Wang, and D.-S., Huang, “Predicting Protein-protein 
Interaction Sites Using Radial basis Function Neural Networks,” International Joint Conference on 
Neural Networks, pp. 2325-2330, 2006. 
[37] Y.Q. Wei, M.Y. Xu, Z.F. Zhu, “Feature-Denoising based on Average Fitness of Genetic 
Population,” Journal of Convergence Information Technology, Vol. 5, No. 8, pp. 174-179, 2010. 
[38] J. Xie, G. Mao, S. Zhang, W. Zhang, “An Integrated Computing Environment for Bio-Molecular 
Networks,” Journal of Convergence Information Technology, Vol. 5, No. 4, pp. 164-171, 2010. 
[39] Q. Zhou, W. Hong, L. Luo, F. Yang, “Gene Selection Using Random Forest and Proximity 
Differences Criterion on DNA Microarray Data,” Journal of Convergence Information Technology, 
Vol. 5, No. 6, pp. 161-170, 2010. 
 2
的技巧和流暢度。來自各國學者所展示的研究成果令人目不暇給，且會議中相
關研究領域學者間的討論也非常熱烈，藉以彼此討論和交換研究的意見和觀
點。 
在本次會議所報告的題目是 “Classification of Protein-protein 
Recognition with Genetic Programming＂，主要內容為利用基因規劃法來進
行蛋白質複合體結合面特徵的分類，且再深入探討在距離的特徵下能提升多少
準確率和如何利用基因規劃法，創造人工特徵來幫助其他分類器提升其準確
率。我們將其研究成果首次在國際會議上和學者們相互討論，透過不同學者的
意見，來了解到研究的不足處。在本次會議中，有許多可貴的經驗。由於在報
告的時間緊迫和許多不同研究議題下。如何在短時間內以英文流暢地告知各國
不同領域學者，讓他們能了解研究的內容，是一個挑戰，但也因此讓我得到不
少寶貴的經驗。 
二、與會心得 
口頭報告後，與會學者提問討論，由討論中了解到別人對自己研究的看法，獲
得一些肯定。除自己報告外，其他學者的報告也使個人了解此一領域大家的研
究方向。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
無 
四、建議 
無 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/01/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以基因規劃法建構蛋白質結合面結構篩選之特徵
計畫主持人: 郭煌政
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-415-015- 學門領域: 生物資訊
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
