成果報告： 
1. Chuan-Pin Lu*, Sin-Kai Chiu, and Jia-De Yan, 2009, August, “External 
Surface Defects Inspection for Solar Cells”, 22th IPPR Conference on 
Computer Vision, Graphics and Image Processing (CVGIP 2009), C6-1, 
Taiwan, pp. 1160-1167. 
2. 呂全斌，鍾澍強，陳韋任， 2008， 「影像光照分佈不均校正之研究
(以太陽能電池影像為例)」， 2008 南台灣資訊科技與應用研討會，第
200-206 頁. 
 
 
 
EXTERNAL SURFACE DEFECTS INSPECTION FOR SOLAR CELLS 
 
 Chuan-Pin Lu(呂全斌), Sin-Kai Chiu(邱信凱) , Jia-De Yan(顏嘉德) 
 
 Dept. of Information Technology, Meiho Institute of Technology 
E-mail:x2174@meiho.edu.tw 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
The automatic inspection method employed in this 
research is based on digital image processing. The 
method is used to inspect the common defects of solar 
cell like the circuit line defects and cell board chip. The 
proposed method is simple but robust. In detecting the 
solar cell chip, signature matching is done through the 
maximum likelihood analysis. On the other, in detecting 
the circuit line defects, Bayes classifier is used to 
segment the circuit line and cell board images. We set 
up the straight line equations for each circuit line. And 
we use the line equation and morphology operation to 
find out the circuit line defects. Experimental results 
show that the proposed method can accurate inspects 
the defects. 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Sunlight gives power to the solar cell. The demand for 
solar cell has gradually grown over the years and many 
sectors continue to value its applications. However, the 
supply of high purity silicon materials used in solar cells 
is controlled by foreign suppliers and other material 
costs keep going higher. These cause the cost of 
manufacturing solar cell to increase as well. The quality 
control involved in the production process is also being 
carefully screened such that the precision quality control 
has become the important step in identifying problems 
and eliminating poor products. The solar cell quality 
inspection items include photoelectric conversion 
efficiency, electricity conduction and integration of 
external surface etc. The external inspection involves 
many detections done to identify defects like the circuit 
line’s misalignment, detachment, breakage, pinhole, 
concave, convex and V-chip, etc. Since these defects 
can affect the quality, performance, and price of solar 
cell, then it is imperative to single out defective 
products. In order to save the costs of manual testing, 
and remove the oversight of manual operation, the 
automatic optical inspection (AOI) technology is 
generally used to inspect the external surface defects of 
industrial products. In terms of solar cell applications, 
there are several AOI products available but their defect 
inspection items are not complete. The methods they 
use are unknown and in addition, there are very few 
literatures that discuss on solar cell external surface 
defects inspection. Therefore, this article aims to 
expound on this topic and hopes that the results would 
be useful for the development of defects inspection 
technology for solar cell. 
 
Some of the literatures on solar cell defect inspection 
are discussed in this section. Fu et. al. (2004) [1] 
proposed the method of solar cell crack inspection 
where the edge information was used in determining 
whether the solar cell contained any cracks. The thesis 
of Chen (2007) [2] focused on crystalline solar cell’s 
external texture defect inspection. This study required 
the author to learn various textures of images, and used 
the texture learning method and line inspection 
algorithm to detect defects. Scale measurement, V-chip 
defect detection, and line defect detection were carried 
out in Tsai’s (2007) [3] master thesis. The author used 
Hough transform and minimum square error (MSE) to 
detect battery edge V-chip defects, the tracking method 
to detect defects in busbar lines, and a template 
matching to detect defects in Finger line. The inspection 
methods on V-chip and line defects used in these two 
studies all need clearly defined “horizontal” and 
“vertical” lines. It is impossible to handle a solar cell 
with a misaligned image. Therefore, the proposed 
method in this article does not have the aforementioned 
weaknesses in handling images related to the detection 
of defects in the external surface of solar cells. The 
testing materials are composed of the solar cells of E-
Ton Solar Tech. The following section presents the 
methods we used. 
 
2. PROCEDURE OF THE PROPOSED METHOD 
 
Figure 1 shows the flowchart of defect inspection: At 
first, the solar cell’s image contour is used as the 
signature feature and compared it with the signature 
feature of defect-less standards in the V-chip defect 
inspection. Before the comparison is made, MSE and 
maximum likelihood analysis (MLA) are employed to 
find the corresponding locations and the differences 
between the two signature features. The location of the 
difference is the defect of V-chip. Next, line defect 
inspection is done. Lines information is separated from 
the entire solar cell image by using Bayes classifier [4]. 
1160
represents the line pattern (denote as 1ω ), and the other 
represents the background cell board pattern ( 2ω ). By 
using the Bayes classifier, we were able to accurately 
isolate the line image. Eq. (1) represents the Bayes 
classifier algorithm [4].  
 
⎩⎨
⎧
>
≥
212
121
 choose   )/()/(  
  choose   )/()/(  
ωωω
ωωω
CPCPif
CPCPif   (1) 
 
In this equation, C  represents three components (red 
( R ), green ( G ), blue ( B )) of the gray-scale value in 
the coordinate ),( yx  pixels. The other functions are 
shown in Eq. (2). 
 
[ ]TyxByxGyxRyxC ),(  ),(  ),(),( =  [ ]2/)()(exp||)2()/( 11112/112/31 mCmCCP T −Γ−−Γ= −−−πω [ ]2/)()(exp  ||)2()/( 21222/122/32 mCmCCP T −Γ−−Γ= −−−πω (2) 
 
where ),( 11 Γm  and ),( 22 Γm  are the mean vectors and 
covariance metrics for pattern class 1ω  and pattern class 
2ω . The pattern class 1ω  and 2ω are characterized by 
multivariable with Gaussian model.  
 
After obtaining the circuit image LR , we went on to use 
the erosion and dilation in morphology operation [5]. 
This was compared with the original line images 
( fuL RRR += ), followed by the isolation of busbars 
( uR ) and fingers ( fR ) images. Fig. 4 shows the entire 
operations. The white area in Fig. 4(a) represents LR , 
while vertical line stands for finger and the horizontal 
line stands for busbar. The finger line section that goes 
through several erosion processes will completely 
disappear but busbar lines. The operation times of 
erosion must be based on the image spatial resolution. 
For example, supposing the width of the finger image is 
6 pixels, 2 pixels are eliminated in the line pixel each 
time it passes through erosion. Thus, it needs to pass 
through erosion 3 times in order to be completely 
eliminated. Afterwards, it undergoes several dilation to 
allow the remaining busbars to restore the original pixel 
size. fR  is obtained from comparing LR  and uR . At 
last, we let all the image regions of uR (as Fig. 4(c)) and 
fR  (as Fig. 4(d)) are marked. By calculating the 
),( 11 jj yx  and ),( 22 jj yx (as Fig. 5), we establish the 
straight line equation for each of the line region. 
Equation of a straight line as follows. 
 
12
12
jj
jj
j xx
yy
m −
−= ,     (3) 
 
where jm  denotes the slope of the thj straight line 
equation. Points ),( 11 jj yx  and ),( 22 jj yx  are obtained 
by calculating the center of the top and bottom area of 
image. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3. Detect shift and rotate misalignment defects of 
line  
 
2.3.1. Shift misalignment defects 
 
Manufacturing substandard will cause finger shift and 
rotate misalignment (see Fig. 6). Fig. 6(a) shows line 
shift misalignment, and line rotate misalignment is 
shown in Fig. 6(b). By using the slope of the straight 
line equation, the gaps between the circuit line and the 
contour are identified in order to determine whether the 
circuit line is displaced. Let us look at Fig. 7 to 
understand the method used to inspect any displacement 
defects in the fingers.  In this figure, each of the pixel 
( ip ) coordinate in the contour is brought into all the 
Fig. 4: Segmentation of uR and fR  by morphology 
operator. (a) LR . (b) )( LL Erode RR =′ . (c) uR . (d) 
fR . 
(c) 
 
Finger 
(d) 
uLf RRR −=
Busbar 
Finger 
LR
Busbar 
)( LLu Dilate RRR ′=′′=
(a) (b) 
)( LL Erode RR =′
Busbar 
 
 
),( 11 jj yx
),( 22 jj yx
Fig. 5: Found the equation of a straight line passing 
through the two points ),( 11 jj yx  and ),( 22 jj yx . 
1162
2.2 and after the area mark and straight line equation 
had been calculated. Based on the principle of straight 
line equation, if we connect any 2 center points  
( 21 uu cc , 32 uu cc , 13 uu cc ) in Fig. 9, then we can obtain the 
straight line slope ( 12m , 23m , 13m ). If the slope and the 
straight line um  are the same ( 3113 uu mmm == ), it 
indicates that the two center points lie on the same line. 
In other words, this area is the detachment point. Finally, 
the straight lines between the two center points are used 
to compute for the detached distance. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.2. Pinhole detection 
 
Pinhole is a common defect in circuit lines (as Fig. 
10(a)). We used morphology operations to identify this 
type of defect. With regard to the method, we initially 
applied dilation on the busbar image region and fill up 
the holes. The dilation process is repeated a number of 
times which is depend on the image size of the pinhole. 
During the process of erosion, the pixel regions are 
eliminated in the afore-mentioned dilation. Finally, the 
original images shown in Fig. 10(a) and Fig. 10(c) are 
compared. The location of their differences is regarded 
as the pinhole defect. 
 
  
(a)   (b) 
  
(c)   (d) 
Fig. 10: Pinhole defect detection. (a) Busbar image 
regions with the pinhole. (b) Region of (a) after dilating 
four times. (c) Region of (b) after eroding four times. (d) 
Comparison result between (a) and (c). 
 
2.4.3.  Concave and convex detection 
 
We used the morphology operations in inspecting the 
concave and convex defects of the circuit lines. The 
steps involved are as follows (see Fig. 11). The 
centerline ( IL , IIL ) of the area is derived from the 
straight line equation. The length of the gap between the 
line and the peripheral 2/w  is identified (as Fig. 11(a), 
where w is width of line). The purpose for remaining 
2/w  gap is to retain a space for dilation which is used 
to convert IL and IIL  into the surrounding region that is 
less than two pixels of IuR and IIuR (as IL&  and IIL&  in 
Fig. 11(b)). The dilation process is repeated 2)2/(w −  
times. The concave defects are found in the vacant slots 
of IuR (or IIuR ) in the IL& (or IIL& ) areas. Similarly, the 
dilation operation of 2)2/(w +  converts IL&& and IIL&&  
into the surrounding area which is bigger than two 
pixels of IuR  and IIuR . The convex defect exists if the 
IuR  and IIuR  is larger than the scope of the  IL&& and IIL&&  
region (as Fig. 11(d)). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. EXPERIMENTS 
 
In this section, we shall discuss the inspection 
experiments done on V-chip and line defects. In our 
experiment, the monocrystalline solar cell manufactured 
by E-Ton Solar Science and Technology Company was 
used. The section on defects in the company’s quality 
control is applied in detecting defects in our 
experiments. We use a Sentech color camera with a 
Fig. 9: Detached busbar detection. 
1um  
1uc  
2um  
2uc  
3um . 
3uc  
13m
12m
23m
Busbar II 
w/2 
IIL&  IL&
Busbar I 
IL IIL
w/2
 
(a) (b) (c) 
IIL&&IL&&
Concave defects 
(e) (d) 
Convex defects 
Fig. 11: Concave and convex detection. (a) Original 
busbars with concave and convex defects. (b) IL&  and 
IIL&  are obtained by dilation. (c) Concave defects. (d) IL&&  
and IIL&&   are obtained by dilation. (e) Convex defects.  
1164
Similarly, the slopes of busbar and finger were 
multiplied. The finger is said to be misaligned when it 
yields a value of 017.0ˆ >− ff mm , as Fig. 16, 
005.0ˆ =− ff mm .  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 16: Rotate misalignment inspection. 
 
The third experiment is the detection of circuit line 
detached where the straight line equation was also 
applied. Take for example the busbar line. After 
segmenting the image, a detachment defect is said to 
exist if the region of the busbar image is greater than 
two criteria mentioned above (solar cell has 2 busbars). 
The detachment defect in busbar is easily detected by 
merely analyzing the slopes. In addition, a part of the 
finger only had 3 lines of image region in the same 
straight line equation. The experimental results are 
shown in Fig. 17.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 17: Detached busbar detection. (a) Original image. 
(b) The detachment defect in busbar. 
 
The fourth experiment aimed to detect the pinhole 
defects in circuit lines as Fig. 18. Again, we analyze the 
images after segmenting the independent image region 
of the circuit lines. After going through the process, we 
noticed that a bigger sized pinhole can be detected but 
the smaller ones (about 3 pixels) were easily removed 
during the handling process.  
 
 
(a)                                        (b) 
 
(c)                                        (d) 
Fig. 18: (a) Busbar with pinhole defects. (b) Finger with 
pinhole defect. (c)Pinhole defects detection in busbar. 
(d) Pinhole defects detection in finger. 
 
The fifth and final experiment aimed to detect the 
common concave and convex defects in circuit lines. In 
this particular experiment, we used the defects of busbar 
as an example (see Fig. 19). The centerline in the busbar 
image region is derived from the straight line equation. 
Figure 19(c) shows the result after performing the 
dilation 24 times. Afterwards, the results were 
compared with Figure 19(b) and the concave defects 
became visible as Fig. 19(d).  
 
    
(a)       (b) 
    
(c)   (d) 
Fig. 19: Concave defects detection. (a) Original image. 
(b) Busbar with the centerline. (c) L& of busbar. (d) 
Concave defects. 
 
In the convex defect experiment, the finger is used as 
the experiment objective (see Fig. 20). We subjected the 
centerline to 3 dilation processes and obtained the 
results in Fig. 20(c). These results were compared with 
Fig. 20(b) and the convex defects emerged as depicted 
by the yellow circular borders in Fig. 20(d). 
um  
fmˆfm
(a)
(b) 
1uc  3uc  
2uc
12m  23m  
13m
1166
影像光照分佈不均校正之研究(以太陽能電池影像為例)
The Study of Image Reflection Model Compensation for the Solar Cell Image
Analysis
呂全斌1 鍾澍強2 陳韋任3
1 美和技術學院資訊科技系助理教授
2 美和技術學院資訊科技系助理教授
3 美和技術學院 資訊科技系 大學部學生
1 x2174@meiho.edu.tw 2 x2186@meiho.edu.tw 3 D49414035@meiho.edu.tw
摘 要
由於石油減少造成世界性的能源危機，而再生能源－太陽能電池的需求在近年來持續
受到重視且需求量日漸成長。然而，太陽能電池的生產原料高純度矽(Si)，必須長期依賴
國外供應商的供給，再加上原物料成本的上漲，使得太陽能電池成本日漸提高且品質分級
管理也隨之受到重視，其中外觀瑕疵檢測也是品管的重要部份，但由於太陽能電池能吸收
大量光譜的物理特性，讓太陽能電池呈現接近深藍或黑色的外表，使得許多外觀的瑕疵即
使透過人工也不易直接觀察與量測，這一點同時也是使用光學檢測面臨核心技術問題，文
獻上也鮮少有研究探討此問題，在這樣的情況下，該產業對此技術有著迫切的需求，因此
我們可以使用以數位影像為基礎的光學檢測技術，嘗試透過光照角度的改變來克服太陽能
電池外觀瑕疵不易觀察的問題。為了解決太陽能電池外觀瑕疵檢測的問題，我們採用光源
打光角度分析技巧與設計適用的影像處理演算法，來做為太陽能電池外觀瑕疵檢測解決方
案，但在此方法上所擷取出的影像會有光照分佈不均的問題。為了解決這個問題，我們在
此計畫中提出一光照分佈不均校正的研究。
關鍵字: 太陽能電池、光學檢測、影像處理
ABSTRACT
It is possible that the world is heading towards an unprecedentedly large and potentially
devastating global energy crisis due to a decline in the availability of cheap oil and
recommendations to a decreasing dependency on fossil fuel. This has led to increasing interest in
alternate power research such as solar energy. A solar cell is a device that converts light energy
into electrical energy by the photovoltaic effect. Photovoltaic is the field of technology and
research related to the application of solar cells as solar energy. Sometimes the term solar cell is
reserved for devices intended specifically to capture energy from sunlight. Solar cells are often
electrically connected and encapsulated as a module. Modules are then interconnected, in series
or parallel, or both, to create an array with the desired peak DC voltage and current. Solar cell
modules are increasingly incorporated into new domestic and industrial buildings as a principal
or ancillary source of electrical power. In recent years, the solar cell quality is attached great
importance to manage. The surface defects inspection of solar cell is also important part of
2008南台灣資訊科技與應用研討會2008.10.31                                                           
2008 South Taiwan Information Technology and Application Conference
/論文集/
『2008南台灣資訊科技與應用研討會』-200
圖 2 RGB、HSI、LSH、LAB、YUV 到 YIQ 模式光
反射影像
經由圖 2 的結果可觀察到，RGB 與 ISH 對油污瑕疵
能見度會有較佳的表現尤其是 ISH 色彩模式，在進
行進一步分析之後發現，HSI 雖然可以有較明顯的
能見度，但對表面紋理光反應的敏感度也相對的太
大，這種情況會造成油污瑕疵辨識與後處理上的困
難，這是因為表面紋理光反射太大(太亮)將會蓋過
瑕疵影像的細節，為了找出對油污瑕疵的反射有最
佳的效果，必須選擇能夠維持瑕疵細節的色彩模
式，經由實驗分析結果我們認為 RGB 模式是最適
用，接著我們又進一步分析 RGB 裡的成份，如圖 3
所示，我們發現 Green 成份對瑕疵影像的呈現最為
穩定，為了將瑕疵影像的光反射效果凸顯出來，我
們將 Green 影像成份進行 Sobel 運算來增強瑕疵的
資訊，同時將 Sobel 運算後影像資訊進行量化處
理，取得光反射強度評估值，如圖 4 所示。
圖 3 R 成份、G 成份與 B 成份光反射影像
(a) (b)
圖 4 G 成份 Sobel 運算強化影像(a) 非垂直光照射之
Sobel 運算影像 (b) 垂直光照射之 Sobel 運算影像
除此之外，我們也將透過不同波長的光源來進行瑕
疵能見度分析，以白光(RGB 400nm ~ 700nm)、紅
光 (R 700nm) 、 藍 光 (B 435.8nm) 、 綠 光 (G
546.1nm)、黃光(RG)、紫紅光(RB)、青光(GB)來進
行各類瑕庛能見度比較，如圖 5 所示，太陽能電池
於固定光照角度下，瑕疵能見度的影像。
(a)R (b)G (c)B
(d)RG (e)RB (f)GB
(g)RGB
圖 5 不同波長的光源來進行瑕疵能見度分析
Sobel運算
於此我們利用 Sobel 運算來強化油污瑕疵外觀特
徵，我們直接使用線性濾波器 Sobel 梯度運算子
(Sobel Operators)，並透過旋積(Convolution)運算來
進行。一次導數在影像處理上的實現是使用梯度的
大小，給定一個函數 ),( yxf ， f 在座標 ),( yx 在位
置 ),( yx 的梯度定義為向量






















y
f
x
f
G
G
y
xf (1)
其中 xG 與 yG 分別為梯度向量水平與垂直方向的分
量，由上述的公式中，我們可看出梯度向量是為 f
在座標 ),( yx 處最大改變率的方向上，此向量的大
小我們可用 f 來表示
2008南台灣資訊科技與應用研討會2008.10.31                                                           
2008 South Taiwan Information Technology and Application Conference
/論文集/
『2008南台灣資訊科技與應用研討會』-202
經過 Sobel 運算後的 8 Bits 灰階影像與量化評估值
(光強度與熵值)。
圖 8 G 成 份 Sobel 運 算 影 像 量 化 評 估 值
( 1> 2> 3> 4 )：光強度與熵值
光 照 分 佈 不 均 校 正 方 法 (Reflection Model
Compensation Method)
然而使用斜向角度光源來獲取太陽能電池表面
較佳的光反射效果，會造成影像會呈現光照分佈不
均的情況，分佈不均的問題於影像後處理階段與瑕
疵偵測階段將會造成嚴重影響，所以在完成光源照
射角度設定後，每個次影像都必須進行光照分佈校
正，這樣的作法我們稱為均一化處理 (Uniformize
Processing)，以圖 9 為例作一說明。
(a) (b)
圖 9 使用模擬樣本影像進行光照分佈校正(a)光照分
佈不均樣本影像(Gray Level=255) (b) 光照分佈校正
影像
影像均一化處理是以一種線性轉換方式，來將
非均一光照下的像素灰階值予以補償修正，這樣的
方法我們藉由一樣本影像來找尋非線性運算遮罩係
數，並且將係數當作是影像增益值(Gain)，以圖 9
為例，圖 9 整張影像灰階值原先是為 255(就如圖
9(b)所示)，乘上增益值係數後，我們可得到圖 9(a)
的結果，該圖是用來模擬光照分佈不均的現象，經
過增益值係數反向運算之後，我們可以將光照分佈
不均的現象去除，讓影像回到正常的灰階值分佈。
我們定義符號 S 為樣本影像， f 為目標影像， F 為
均一校正後影像，增益值係數為，原影像O ，我
們假設 S 與O 的關係為
OS . (8)
擷取太陽能電池影像
調整光源照射角度
  1ii
計算 iI
擷取 G 成份灰階值
進行 Sobel 運算
計算 ih
計算評估值 iii hIE 
NO
YES
找尋 }{ iEMax -> i
900 i
圖 7 光源照射最佳角度分析流程圖
2008南台灣資訊科技與應用研討會2008.10.31                                                           
2008 South Taiwan Information Technology and Application Conference
/論文集/
『2008南台灣資訊科技與應用研討會』-204
