 2
expected in general that the slowly approaching 
interfaces would eventually coalesce, due to the 
attraction of intermolecular force. As the impact 
energy or liquid deformability is increased, which is 
associated with higher We, more gas shall be trapped 
within the gap between the deformed surfaces. 
Consequently larger pressure is built up and resists 
further approaching of the droplet; it thus results in a 
bouncing regime. If We is further increased, however, 
the repulsive pressure inside the gap is overwhelmed 
by relatively larger impact inertia and the surfaces 
will merge again. With even higher We, the merged 
liquid has to separate in order to balance the excess 
energy which cannot be digested in a single mass 
merely by ensuing deformation or viscous 
dissipation during the resulted oscillation. 
Depending on the relative magnitudes of impact 
inertia, surface tension, and viscous dissipation, a 
myriad of secondary droplets can be further created; 
a typical phenomenon is known as splash. This 
process of droplet disintegration into many pieces is 
critical in a large number of practical situations since 
it may substantially change the essential structure 
and hence performance of concern. The core of the 
study is focused on these phenomena, but not the 
rebound and partial rebound that appear as another 
type of collision outcome in the regime of lower We.  
The splashing features on a rigid surface have 
been investigated extensively while quite a few 
factors are involved to complicate the collision 
outcome and thus hamper further analysis and 
prediction. Specifically, the breaking scenario may 
follow prompt splash, corona splash, or receding 
breakup (also known as delayed splash). Prompt 
splash is known to be caused by the surface 
roughness at the advancing contact line at the 
beginning of the spreading phase and would not 
occur on smooth surfaces [4,7]. Corona splash 
however is generated due to the interaction of an 
expanding film with the surrounding gas whereby a 
crown is formed and multitude of secondary droplets 
are then disintegrated from the rim after a corrugated 
shape is generated by a capillary instability. It does 
not appear if the atmospheric pressure is sufficiently 
low [19]. The receding breakup occurs when the 
lamella retracts whereby the fingers with little or 
somewhat forwarding inertia at the rim cannot 
follow the receding motion and consequently pinch 
off. As revealed from the literature, the so defined 
“prompt splash” is used to differentiate from that of 
corona splash and may not actually occur 
“promptly” after the impact. Therefore, a lot of 
events named in this way could follow a general 
scenario of normal breakup structure that happens to 
the spreading lamella via which the developed 
fingers are broken during the expansion. In this study, 
however, we demonstrated a peculiar splash that 
indeed happened at the moment right after impact 
and could be truly designated as “prompt splash.” 
For the rest that can neither be attributed to such a 
class nor the corona splash which may occur in the 
spreading phase, “breakup” is assigned to the regime 
in order to identify its essential structure of 
formation. In this sense, previously defined prompt 
splash might have covered both the breakup and 
present prompt splash [5] whereas the latter has not 
been specifically recognized. 
Most previous studies were conducted at 
moderate or low impact velocity such that the We 
range was somewhat limited in providing globally 
accurate trends or rendering sufficient comparison 
with theoretical models until recently Mehdizadeh et 
al. [20] used a rotating arm to hit a droplet in air with 
such strong impact energy to reach high We as well 
as Re (= VD/, where  is the liquid viscosity). 
They hence investigated the variation of developed 
fingers in a wide range of parametric condition and 
compared it with their theory, showing good 
agreement. The details of different splashing 
structures, however, were not provided in their study 
and definition of onset threshold was purposely 
skirted because of the inherent sophistication that 
would demand substantial image illustration for 
proper identification. To comprehend further the 
mechanisms that lead to disintegration of collided 
droplets at such a high impact We, we purported to 
use a technique for generating stable spherical 
droplets with relatively high velocity. In addition, 
various quantitative features characterizing the onset 
of specific regimes can be realized for a variety of 
fluid ingredients. Furthermore, the influence of 
centrifugal force or Coriolis force on the results of 
spreading lamella and fingers encountered in the 
study of Mehdizadeh et al. due to rotation of the 
target surface carried by a flywheel can be identified 
via the present work without specific forces that may 
bring about asymmetric collision dynamics.  
To achieve the test condition of high-speed 
impact, we have developed a droplet generating 
method that is different from conventional 
approaches adopting such as vibration of 
piezoelectric diaphragms [15,16] or creation of 
 4
the camera was synchronized with a LED lamp (150 
Watt) that can support the shortest duration of 1 s, 
to capture transient images with sufficiently small 
exposure and adequate light intensity while avoiding 
blurring due to background scattering.  
To test the effect of another important parameter, 
i.e. the liquid viscosity that is responsible for the 
extent of energy dissipation due to the liquid motion, 
we have adopted mainly four different liquids: water, 
mixture of water with 20% glycerol, heptane, and 
nonane; the fluid properties are shown in Table 1. Its 
effect can be presented in terms of the variation of 
Reynolds number or Ohnesorge number; the latter, 
which is independent of the impact velocity and 
written as Oh = We1/2/Re, is listed as well in the table 
for a typical diameter D = 0.5 mm. The first two 
liquids and the other two respectively have similar 
densities and surface tensions but the viscosities are 
distinct from each other in the pair. This would 
suffice us to catch a first insight to the effects of 
surface tension and viscosity.  
 
Density  
 (kg/m3) 
Viscosity  
 (centipoise) 
Surface tension  
 (N/m) 
Oh = /(D)1/2
D = 0.5 mm 
Water 1000 0.894 0.072 0.0047 
20%Glycerol-Water 1050 2.100 0.069 0.011 
Heptane 684 0.387 0.020 0.0047 
Nonane 714 0.720 0.022 0.0081 
Alcohol 789 1.2 0.0231 0.0126 
  
Table. 1 Liquid properties of tested fluids  
 
3. Results and Discussion  
To realize the generic collision behaviors, we 
have tested droplets of varied liquids impacting 
surfaces with different roughness so as to include the 
effects of viscosity and surface property that would 
play a role in addition to the surface tension of liquid. 
In our recently published paper [25], we discussed 
first the collision sequence and specific structure 
when the impact energy was relatively large, 
yielding a high We. It was followed by illustration of 
regime diagrams that identified the various types of 
outcomes, based on different liquids with distinct 
properties. Comparisons with previous results were 
also provided. Due to limited length of this report, 
however, we only present some experimental 
observations in the following. 
It is known that, when We is sufficiently high, 
fingers will form at the periphery of an expanding 
lamella after a droplet hits a solid surface. If We is 
further increased, however, the fingers may break, 
resulting in secondary droplets shed out from the rim 
that could be caused by a rim transverse instability 
[26], as shown in Fig. 2. The breakup was created at 
the advancing contact line and if no crown was 
formed, it was usually ascribed to prompt splash in 
previous studies. As mentioned already, however, in 
this study it is designated to the regime of “breakup” 
so as to contrast its difference from the following 
mechanism of a truly “prompt splash.” In general, 
creation of secondary droplets was observed at an 
early phase of spreading while wrinkles and fingers 
would continuously evolve afterwards and merge 
with adjacent ones [27]. As demonstrated in our 
recent study on binary droplet collision, it is known 
that the expanding rim of a free sheet ejected out of 
the colliding plane between two identical droplets 
may exhibit continuous formation of fingers and 
breakup when We is large enough [28]. Therefore, it 
implies that the interaction between the spreading 
liquid and solid surface, specifically the drag force, 
in the present configuration may inhibit further 
breaking of fingers and scattering of secondary 
droplets whereas the scenarios of splashing from the 
rim are essentially the same.  
      
      
      
     
 
 
  
Fig. 2 Collision sequence of a water droplet 
impacting a surface with roughness Ra = 0.003 m 
 6
would not directly disintegrate into multiple droplets 
but bifurcate first when they are sufficiently long 
before myriads of satellite droplets are scattered out 
(Fig. 3c). After that the expanding rim merely 
followed the normal breaking mechanism for the 
fingers to create secondary droplets. 
 
(a) 
 
 
(b) 
 
 
(c) 
 
           
(d) 
 
             
(e) 
Filaments ejected 
from the inner rim 
of contact surface, 
overlapped with a
 
Fig. 4 The transient image of a high-speed droplet 
impacting a solid surface shows (a) corona splash of 
alcohol, and (b) prompt splash of water with an 
expanding sheet. In addition, the prompt splash 
viewed from top is represented by multiple long 
threads ejected outward from the contact line at the 
inner rim for We = 12260 and Ra = (c) 0.003 m and 
(d) 0.07 m. Similar phenomena were also presented 
in [20] but with somewhat non-uniform effect due to 
centrifugal forces (We = 12232, Ra = 0.03 m) on the 
left plane, as scanned from [20] and shown in (e). 
 
In the literature visualization of corona splash 
was usually presented by using alcohol [3,4,19] 
whereas for water or some other similar fluids such 
as 20%glycerin-water as tested, prompt splash was 
always observed in our study if We was large enough. 
As a consequence the features of corona splash that 
would otherwise occur at a larger We came out in a 
different fashion as compared to that of general 
exhibition showing a curved film, or a crown, 
entailed by secondary droplets emitted from the 
outer rim (Fig. 4a). In fact, the characteristics of the 
two splattering patterns may mix in the collision 
process and sometimes they are not easily defined 
particularly under strong impact. If we stick to the 
definition that prompt splash is initiated at an early 
moment of contact due to breaking of the filaments 
ejected from the periphery of droplet-surface contact 
area such that it occurs immediately after the impact, 
overlapped later with a spreading lamella that may 
lead to further breakup of fingers at the advancing 
contact line, as can be justified from the two 
perspectives of viewing (Figs. 4b and 4c), the 
identification for such event would be made clearer. 
This is adopted throughout the discussion of this 
article. 
We note that no specific nonuniformity was 
embedded as justified by comparing Fig. 4c with 
other tests or with another case of the same instant 
but on a surface with different roughness (Fig. 4d), 
in contrast to that up to slight influence of centrifugal 
forces due to high-speed rotation as shown in Fig. 4e 
which was scanned from the paper of Mehdizadeh et 
al. [20]. The nonuniformity would also yield the dry 
patches formed at later stage as reported in their 
article, which were however not observed in our 
experiments as seen in Fig. 2, though would be 
related to the material properties as well.  
  
Fig. 5 Collision sequence of a heptane droplet 
impacting a surface with roughness Ra = 0.003 m 
(V = 9.80 m/s, We = 1625, Re = 8610, D = 0.50 mm); 
△t = 0.06 ms. It demonstrates occurrence of corona 
splash. 
 
Since corona splash is essentially created by the 
interaction of ejecting liquid sheet and the 
surrounding gas that exerts restraining pressure, 
secondary droplets are emitted out of the rim when it 
is curved upward at later phase before which fingers 
may have formed. This type of splash, therefore, is 
associated with distinct features that can be 
 8
It can thus be adopted to study the collision 
dynamics at high impact velocity but without 
specific nonuniformity as that generated in previous 
work involving a rotating surface and hence 
centrifugal forces at high speed while the 
quantitative results as tested are not much different. 
We have investigated the splashing patterns for a 
droplet of varied liquid upon a solid surface with 
different roughness particularly with large impact 
energy. It was demonstrated that prompt splash that 
was generally believed to occur only on a rough 
surface could also be created on a smooth surface as 
long as We was sufficiently large whereby long 
threads were ejected immediately after impact from 
the first contact ring of the impinging droplet and 
overlapped on an expanding lamella. Corona splash 
was observed for heptane and nonane at high enough 
We but exhibited in a less manifest form as compared 
to that usually photographed with alcohol. No 
corona splash was purely observed for water and its 
solution with glycerol whereas the effect of 
restraining pressure of ambient gas that might 
otherwise cause this phenomenon if prompt splash 
were never present could be reflected by the 
upwardly curved fingers shown at later stage. Both 
types of splashes were encouraged by surface 
roughness as was for breakup of expanding fingers. 
It is noted that the material effect which will yield 
different contact angles between the liquid and solid 
surface would be another factor to determine the 
onset of various splashing mechanisms. In addition, 
the environmental gas and associated pressure could 
also exert influence on these splashes via the 
interaction with the spreading lamella. Both factors 
were however not considered in the current study 
that was focused on the demonstration of essential 
structure and effects of liquid properties. 
The diameter whence the fingers at the 
expanding rim were broken increased with We while 
constant slopes were approached for various fluids. 
The seemingly invariant trend became manifested if 
the breakup diameter was normalized by the 
diameter of maximum spread, yielding a nearly 
constant value. The quantity was however different 
for fluids with distinct properties. The disparity 
could be interpreted by certain dimensionless group 
that would involve viscosity and surface tension 
with similar monotonic dependence as that tested for 
the onset of prompt splash. 
 
Reference 
1. Stow CD, Hadfield MG (1981) Proc R Soc Lond A 
373: 419 
2. Chandra S, Avedisian CT (1991) Proc R Soc Lond A 
432: 13 
3. Yarin AL, Weiss DA (1995) J Fluid Mech 283: 141 
4. Rioboo R, Tropea C, Marango M (2001) Atomization 
Sprays 11: 155 
5. Vander Wal RL, Berger GM, Mozes SD (2006) Exp 
Fluids 40: 23 
6. Vander Wal RL, Berger GM, Mozes SD (2006) Exp 
Fluids 40: 53 
7. Xu L (2007) Phys Rev E 75: 056316 
8. Rein M (1993) Fluid Dyn Res 12: 61 
9. Cossali GE, Marengo M, Santini S (2005) Atom 
Sprays 15: 699 
10. Yarin AL (2006) Annu Rev Fluid Mech 38:159 
11. Cossali GE, Coghe A, Marengo M (1997) Exp Fluids 
22: 463 
12. Cossali GE, Marengo M, Coghe A, Zhdanov S (2004) 
Exp Fluids 36: 888 
13. Pan KL, Law CK (2007) J Fluid Mech 587: 1 
14. Pan KL, Cheng KR, Chou PC, Wang CH (2008) Exp 
Fluids 45: 435 
15. Ashgriz N, Poo JY (1990) J Fluid Mech 221: 183 
16. Jiang YJ, Umemura A, Law CK (1992) J Fluid Mech 
234: 171 
17. Qian J, Law CK (1997) J Fluid Mech 331: 59 
18. Pan KL, Law CK, Zhou B (2008) J Appl Phys 103, 
064901: 1 
19. Xu L, Zhang WW, Nagel SR (2005) Phys Rev Lett 94 
20. Mehdizadeh NZ, Chandra S, Mostaghimi J (2004) J 
Fluid Mech 510: 353 
21. Jayaratne OW, Mason BJ (1964) Proc R Soc Lond A 
280: 545 
22. Adam JR, Lindblad NR, Hendricks CD (1968) J Appl 
Phys 39: 5173 
23. Hobbs PV, Kezweeny AJ (1967) Science 155: 1112 
24. Rodriguez F, Mesler R (1985) J Colloid Interface Sci 
106: 347 
25. Pan KL, Tseng KC, Wang CH (2010) Exp Fluids 48: 
143 
26. Roisman IV, Horvat K, Tropea C (2006) Phys Fluids  
27. Thoroddsen ST, Sakakibara J (1998) Phys Fluids 10 
28. Pan KL, Chou PC, Tseng YJ (2009) Phys Rev E 80: 
036301 
29. Blake TD (1993) Dynamic contact angles and 
wetting kinetics, Wettability. Marcel Dekker, New York 
30. Range K, Feuillebois F (1998) J. Colloid Interface 
Sci 203: 16  
 
