(corresponding to the free volume) of the DETA-XDI 
polyurea layer was higher than those of the NTEA-XDI 
and EDA-XDI polyurea layers. In the dehydration of 
the aqueous ethanol solutions, the DETA-XDI/mPAN 
composite membrane had the lower permeation rate than 
and the higher water concentration in permeate 
compared with the NTEA-XDI/mPAN and the EDA-XDI/mPAN 
composite membranes. The physical structure of the 
interfacially-polymerized layer and the pervaporation 
performance of the composite membrane were deeply 
affected by the chemical structure of the polyurea 
polymer. 
英文關鍵詞： Polyurea； Composite membrane； Interfacial 
polymerization； Pervaporation； Positron 
annihilation spectroscopy 
 
 2
Novel polyurea interfacially-polymerized composite membranes – fabrication procedure, 
fine-structure characterization, and pervaporation performance 
新型聚尿素界面聚合複合膜－製程、微結構鑑定與滲透蒸發效能之研究 
 
NSC 99-2221-E-197-003- 
99/08/01 ~ 100/08/31 
 
Shu-Hsien Huang(黃書賢)1, Hsiao-Yu Chou(周曉瑜)1, Jin-Sen Lin(林家森)1, Cheng-Chun Huang(黃承駿)2, 
Ming-Wei Chang(張銘維)2 
 
1 Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering, National Ilan University, I-Lan 26047, Taiwan 
2 Department of Chemical Engineering, Chung Yuan University, Chung-Li 32023, Taiwan 
 
Abstract 
To improve the pervaporation performance of polyurea membrane, the polyurea composite membranes 
were prepared via the interfacial polymerization of ethylenediamine (EDA), diethylenetriamine (DETA), or 
2,2',2''-nitrilotriethylamine (NTEA) and m-xylylene diisocyanate (XDI) on the surface of modified 
asymmetric polyacrylonitrile (mPAN) membrane and were applied in the pervaporation separation of 90 wt% 
aqueous ethanol solution at 25oC. To investigate the variation in the free volume of the polyurea active layer, 
the polyurea composite membrane was examined by conducting positron annihilation spectroscopy (PAS) 
experiments, in which a variable monoenergy slow positron beam was used. Attenuated Total 
Reflectance-Fourier Transform Infrared (ATR-FTIR) Spectrometry analysis, scanning electron microscopy 
(SEM) observation and water contact angle measurement were applied to characterize chemical structure, 
morphology, thickness and hydrophilicity of the interfacially-polymerized layer of composite membrane. 
From the results of PAS experiments, the S parameter (corresponding to the free volume) of the DETA-XDI 
polyurea layer was higher than those of the NTEA-XDI and EDA-XDI polyurea layers. In the dehydration of 
the aqueous ethanol solutions, the DETA-XDI/mPAN composite membrane had the lower permeation rate 
than and the higher water concentration in permeate compared with the NTEA-XDI/mPAN and the 
EDA-XDI/mPAN composite membranes. The physical structure of the interfacially-polymerized layer and the 
pervaporation performance of the composite membrane were deeply affected by the chemical structure of the 
polyurea polymer. 
 
摘要 
為了提升聚尿素薄膜的滲透蒸發分離效能，利用胺類單體 ethylenediamine (EDA)、diethylenetriamine 
(DETA)或 2,2',2''-nitrilotriethylamine (NTEA)與二異氰酸酯單體 m-xylylene diisocyanate (XDI)，在改質的
聚丙醯腈非對稱膜表面進行界面聚合反應，製備聚尿素複合膜，並將其應用於滲透蒸發分離 90 wt%乙
醇水溶液。為探討聚尿素聚合層的自由體積變化，利用可變單一能量慢速正子束測試儀，對聚尿素複
合膜進行正子湮滅光譜(PAS)實驗。利用全反射式傅立葉轉換紅外線光譜(ATR-FTIR)分析、掃描式電子
顯微鏡(SEM)觀察與對水接觸角量測等實驗，鑑定複合膜表面界面聚合層的化學結構、型態、厚度與親
水性。由正子湮滅光譜實驗的結果可知，與 NTEA-XDI 和 EDA-XDI 聚尿素層比較，DETA-XDI 聚尿
素層有較高的 S 參數 (較高的自由體積)。在乙醇水溶液的脫水實驗中，與 NTEA-XDI/mPAN 和
EDA-XDI/mPAN 複合膜比較，DETA-XDI/mPAN 複合膜有較低的透過率與較高的透過水濃度。界面聚
合層的物理結構與複合膜的滲透蒸發效能深深受到聚尿素高分子化學結構影響。 
 
Keywords: Polyurea; Composite membrane; Interfacial polymerization; Pervaporation; Positron annihilation 
spectroscopy 
 
Introduction 
Ethanol aqueous solution, a biofuel, comes from the process of fermenting sugar in biomass resources 
such as the lees and stems of corn. It is one of the new energy sources that would avoid problems concerned 
with the lack of petroleum resources [1]. Traditional distillation process usually concentrates ethanol aqueous 
solutions, but the azeotrope restricts further concentration. To obtain ethanol with high purity, excess water 
 4
NMP solvent, and it was then stored in water. 
The porous modified PAN membrane was prepared by immersing the PAN support membrane in a 2M 
NaOH solution at 50oC. The partial -CN groups of PAN can be converted into -COOH or -CONH2 groups 
after the hydrolysis with NaOH solution. The porous modified PAN support membrane was washed in a water 
bath for several hours, and it was then stored in water before use for the interfacial polymerization. 
 
Preparation of interfacially-polymerized polyurea composite membrane 
The active polyurea skin layer was polymerized via the interfacial polymerization technique. The mPAN 
support membrane was first immersed in a 1 wt % aqueous amine solution for 5 min. Then, the excess amount 
of aqueous amine solution on the surface of the mPAN support membrane was removed using a rubber rod. 
The mPAN support membrane soaked with the aqueous amine solution was contacted with a toluene solution 
containing 1 wt% diisocyanate for 3 min to carry out the process of interfacial polymerization. Finally, the 
resulting polyurea composite membrane was washed in methanol and then dried at atmospheric temperature. 
 
Characterization 
Attenuated Total Reflectance-Fourier Transform Infrared (ATR-FTIR) Spectrometry (Perkin Elmer 
Spectrum 100) spectroscopy was used to examine the chemical structure of the composite membrane. 
Scanning electron microscopy (SEM, HITACHI S4800) was used to observe the morphology of the polyurea 
composite membrane. In order to understand the surface hydrophilicity of the polyurea composite membrane, 
the water contact angle was estimated with the use of Automatic Interfacial Tensiometer (FACE Mode 1 
PD-VP). 
 
Positron annihilation spectroscopy (PAS) experiment 
To estimate the variation in the free volume in the interfacially-polymerized polyurea composite 
membrane, a variable monoenergy slow positron beam at the R&D Center for Membrane Technology, Chung 
Yuan University, Taiwan was used for this study to define the mean depth of the membrane between 0 and 
about 10 μm (the mean depth is converted by using an established equation from the positron incident energy 
from 0~30 keV) at atmospheric temperature under a vacuum of ~10-8 torr to measure Doppler-broadened 
energy spectrum (DBES). This radioisotope beam uses 50 mCi of 22Na as the positron source. The DBES 
spectra were measured using an HP Ge detector at a counting rate of approximately 2000 cps. The total 
number of counts for each DBES spectrum was 1.0 millions. DBES is based on the measurement of the width 
of the annihilation gamma photon line, centered at 511 keV, by HP Ge detector. The S parameter defined by 
the ratio of the central part of the annihilation spectrum and the total spectrum reflects positron annihilation 
with low momentum valence electrons. 
 
Pervaporation measurement 
The pervaporation separation of 90 wt% aqueous ethanol solution through the polyurea composite 
membranes was conducted. The feed solution was contacted directly with the polyurea layer of the composite 
membrane. The effective area of the membrane for pervaporation was 7.07 cm2. The operating temperature 
(feed solution temperature) was 25oC. The concentrations of the feed solution and permeate were measured by 
gas chromatography (GC, China Chromatography GC 2000). The permeation rate (P) was calculated from the 
following equation: 
tA
WP   (1)
where W is the weight of the permeate, A is the effective membrane area, t is the sampling time. 
 
Results and discussion 
Characterization 
The ATR-FTIR spectra for the mPAN support and the polyurea composite membranes (EDA-XDI/mPAN, 
DETA-XDI/mPAN and NTEA-XDI/mPAN) are shown in Figure 2. Compared with the spectrum for the 
mPAN support membrane (Figure 2(a)), two peaks are shown in the spectra for all polyurea composite 
membranes (Figure 2(b)-2(d)) at wave numbers of 1630 and 1564 cm-1, corresponding to C=O (amide I) and 
N-H (amide II), respectively. The peak at wave number of 3330 cm-1 also corresponds to N-H of the urea 
group. The result of ATR-FTIR analysis confirmed that the composite membrane’s active layer is composed 
 6
summing up the above-mentioned experimental results, the following several conclusions were obtained: 
1. The chemical structure variation in the polyurea interfacially-polymerized layer affected deeply its 
physical structure and pervaporation performance. 
2. As a result of the PAS experiment, the DETA-XDI polyurea layer had the higher S parameter, that is, the 
higher free volume compared with the NTEA-XDI and EDA-XDI polyurea layers. 
3. From the result of the pervaporation experiment, the DETA-XDI/mPAN composite membrane had the 
most desirable pervaporaion performance which was a permeation rate of 460 g/m2h and a water 
concentration in permeate of 98 wt% for separating a 90 wt% aqueous ethanol solution. 
 
Self-assessment 
The results of this study are in agreement with the purpose of our project. After confirming some results 
again, the manuscript will soon be submitted to some international journal in the near future. 
 
Acknowledgements 
The authors wish to sincerely thank the National Science Council of Taiwan for financially supporting this 
work. 
 
References 
[1] T. Uragami, S. Yanagisawa, T. Miyata, Water/Ethanol Selectivity of New Organic-Inorganic Hybrid 
Membranes Fabricated from Poly(vinyl alcohol) and an Oligosilane, Macromol. Chem. Phys. 208 (2007) 
756-764. 
[2] B.-H. Jeong, E.M.V. Hoek, Y. Yan, A. Subramani, X. Huang, G. Hurwitz, A.K. Ghosh, A. Jawor, 
Interfacial polymerization of thin film nanocomposites: A new concept for reverse osmosis membranes, 
J. Membr. Sci. 294 (2007) 1-7. 
[3] G. Chen, S. Li, X. Zhang, S. Zhang, Novel thin-film composite membranes with improved water flux 
from sulfonated cardo poly(arylene ether sulfone) bearing pendant amino groups, J. Membr. Sci. 310 
(2008) 102-109. 
[4] S. Qiu, L. Wu, L. Zhang, H. Chen, C. Gao, Preparation of reverse osmosis composite membrane with 
high flux by interfacial polymerization of MPD and TMC, J. Appl. Polym. Sci. 112 (2009) 2066-2072. 
[5] H. Wang, L. Li, X. Zhang, S. Zhang, Polyamide thin-film composite membranes prepared from a novel 
triamine 3,5-diamino-N-(4-aminophenyl)-benzamide monomer and m-phenylenediamine, J. Membr. Sci. 
353 (2010) 78-84. 
[6] B. Tang, Z. Huo, P. Wu, Study on a novel polyester composite nanofiltration membrane by interfacial 
polymerization of triethanolamine (TEOA) and trimesoyl chloride (TMC) I. Preparation, 
characterization and nanofiltration properties test of membrane,, J. Membr. Sci. 320 (2008) 198-205. 
[7] N.K. Saha, S.V. Joshi, Performance evaluation of thin film composite polyamide nanofiltration 
membrane with variation in monomer type, J. Membr. Sci. 342 (2009) 60-69. 
[8] Y. Mansourpanah, S.S. Madaeni, A. Rahimpour, Fabrication and development of interfacial polymerized 
thin-film composite nanofiltration membrane using different surfactants in organic phase; study of 
morphology and performance, J. Membr. Sci. 343 (2009) 219-228. 
[9] M.N. Abu Seman, M. Khayet, N. Hilal, Nanofiltration thin-film composite polyester 
polyethersulfone-based membranes prepared by interfacial polymerization, J. Membr. Sci. 348 (2010) 
109-116. 
[10] S.H. Huang, C.J. Hsu, D.J. Liaw, C.C. Hu, K.R. Lee, J.Y. Lai, Effect of chemical structures of amines on 
physicochemical properties of active layers and dehydration of isopropanol through interfacially 
polymerized thin-film composite membranes, J. Membr. Sci. 307 (2008) 73-81. 
[11] S.H. Huang, G.J. Jiang, D.J. Liaw, C.L. Li, C.C. Hu, K.R. Lee, J.Y. Lai, Effects of polymerization and 
pervaporation operating conditions on dehydration performance of interfacially polymerized thin-film 
composite membranes, J. Appl. Polym. Sci. 114 (2009) 1511-1522. 
[12] S.H. Huang, W.S. Hung, D.J. Liaw, C.H. Lo, W.C. Chao, C.C. Hu, C.L. Li, K.R. Lee, J.Y. Lai, 
Interfacially polymerized thin-film composite polyamide membranes: Effects of annealing processes on 
pervaporative dehydration of aqueous alcohol solutions, Sep. Purif. Technol. 72 (2010) 40-47. 
[13] E.E. Abdel-Hady, H.F.M. Mohamed, S.S. Fareed, Free volume evolution in polyoxymethylene studied 
by positron annihilation spectroscopy, Radiat. Phys. Chem. 76 (2007) 138-141. 
 8
 
 
  
(a) (b) 
  
(c) (d) 
Figure 3 Surface SEM images of (a) mPAN support membrane and polyurea composite membranes (b) 
EDA-XDI/mPAN, (c) DETA-XDI/mPAN, (d) NTEA-XDI/mPAN. 
 
 
  
(a) (b) 
  
(c) (d) 
Figure 4 Cross-sectional SEM images of (a) mPAN support membrane and polyurea composite membranes 
(b) EDA-XDI/mPAN, (c) DETA-XDI/mPAN, (d) NTEA-XDI/mPAN. 
 
 
 1
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
日期： 100 年 08 月 05 日 
計 畫 編 號 NSC 99–2221–E–197–003– 
計 畫 名 稱 新型聚尿素界面聚合複合膜－製程、微結構鑑定與滲透蒸發效能之研究 
出國人員姓名 黃書賢 服務機構及 職 稱
國立宜蘭大學 
化學工程與材料工程學系 
助理教授 
會 議 時 間 100 年 7 月 23 日至
100 年 7 月 29 日 會議地點 荷蘭阿姆斯特丹 
會 議 名 稱 
(中文) 2011 年國際薄膜與薄膜製程會議  
(英文) International Congress on Membranes and 
Membrane Processes, 2011 (ICOM 2011) 
發表論文題目 
(中文) 界面聚合聚醯胺複合膜：膨潤劑對自由體積變化與滲
透蒸發效能的影響 
(英文) Interfacially polymerized polyamide thin-film composite 
membrane: effect of swelling agent on free volume 
variation and pervaporation performance 
 
一、參加會議經過 
2011 年第九屆國際薄膜與薄膜製程會議（ ICOM 2011）由歐
洲薄膜協會主辦，會議地點位於荷蘭阿姆斯特丹的 RAI 國際會展
中心，圖一為本人攝於會場門口，會議時間由 7 月 23 日至 29 日為期
7 天，會議內容著重於薄膜材料、薄膜成形與改質、薄膜鑑定以及薄膜分
離程序的最新發展。7 月 23 日與 24 日為專題研究講習會，專題研習主題包
含 Hydrodynamics and module design、Membrane bioreactors、Desalination 與
Membrane gas separation for industrial flue gases 等四個研究方向。7 月 24 日
晚上（18:00 ~ 20:00）為開幕歡迎晚會（如圖二所示），許久未見的老朋友
齊聚一堂，暄寒問暖一番，也不忘認識新朋友，相互交流。 
 
圖一為本人在會場門口 
 3
University of California 的博士生 Kari Varin 分享其近來所發展高效能奈米結
構奈米過濾/逆滲透薄膜之合成、表面鑑定與分離效能。澳洲 CSIRO Materials 
Science and Engineering 的 Anita J. Hill 教授暢談自由體積在氣體與蒸氣分離
薄膜中所扮演的角色。美國 The Pennsylvania State University 的 Andrew L. 
Zydney 教授暢談超過濾與病毒過濾薄膜之鑑定，近年來的發展狀況。美國
The Ohio State University 的何文壽教授分享其發展選擇二氧化碳促進傳輸
薄膜在燃料電池之氫氣純化的應用。新加坡 National University of Singapore
的鍾台生教授分享其多年來在中空纖維膜的研究經驗，並暢談高分子中空纖
維膜製備技術的過去、現在與未來。第二個 Poster session 亦在晚上進行，
其 主 題 包 括 Membranes for biomedical applications 、 Desalination 、
Electromembrane processes、Facilitated transport membranes、Filtration under 
extreme conditions、membrane characterization、membrane contactors and 
reactors、Membrane formation、Membranes for biorefineries、Membranes for 
energy generation、Microfluidic membrane systems、membrane modeling、
NF/RO 以及 UF/MF 等研究領域，本人的海報論文即發表在主題 membrane 
characterization 中(圖三為本人與海報)。海報論文展示期間，與諸多先進進
行討論，並分享彼此的寶貴經驗。 
 
圖三為本人與海報 
7 月 27 日的議程為 12 個 Oral sessions（包含 12 場 Keynote speeches），
在 Gas and vapor separation、Membrane characterization 以及 Inorganic 
membranes 等三個主題中，有幾場演講吸引本人注意。在主題 Gas and vapor 
separation 方面，荷蘭 University of Twente 的 Kitty Nijmeijer 教授暢談在煙道
氣處理的方面，高分子薄膜的氣體傳輸行為；義大利 University of Manchester
的學者 Christopher Mason 分享其所發展奈米複合 PIM 薄膜在氣體分離的應
用。在主題 Membrane characterization 方面，美國 University of Colorado at 
Boulder 的 Alan R. Greenberg 教授暢談薄膜鑑定與薄膜程序的回顧與未來發
展；澳地利 Graz University of Technology 的學者 Herbert Reingruber 分享其
 5
2014)將於 2014 年在中國大陸蘇州舉辦，最後在一片和樂融融的掌聲中，順
利完成了為期七天的會議。7 月 30 日搭機返國，結束了本次荷蘭阿姆斯
特丹的學術交流之旅。 
 
圖四為大會閉幕儀式現場 
 
二、與會心得 
國 際 薄 膜 與 薄 膜 製 程 會 議 （ International Congress on 
Membranes and Membrane Processes, ICOM）係三年舉辦一次的大
型國際薄膜會議，分別由北美、歐洲及亞洲三地的薄膜協會輪流
舉辦。2005 年由亞洲薄膜協會於韓國首爾主辦第七屆國際薄膜與
薄膜製程會議（ ICOM 2005）， 2008 年由北美薄膜協會在美國夏
威夷主辦第八屆國際薄膜與薄膜製程會議（ ICOM 2008），今年則
輪到歐洲薄膜協會，於荷蘭阿姆斯特丹主辦第九屆國際薄膜與薄
膜製程會議（ ICOM 2011），此次盛會安排 3 場 Plenary lectures，78 個
Oral sessions 共 306 場 lectures（包含 78 場 Keynote speeches），2 個 Poster 
sessions 共 677 張海報論文以及 137 位 chairs。參與此次會議的專家學者、
研究人員與學生高達 1051 位，合計共發表 986 篇論文，其中亞洲地區佔了
22%，由此可見，亞洲地區薄膜領域的研究能量逐年增加、壯大，不再讓歐
美各國專美於前，這是本人所樂見的。另外，亞洲地區薄膜研究的發展亦與
世界同步，在新薄膜開發方面，除了高分子薄膜外，有機/無機混成薄膜與
無機薄膜的發展亦逐漸受到重視，並應用於氣體與蒸氣分離、節能減碳、新
替代能源的開發、環境保護與水處理以及生化生醫工程等領域。 
在參與此次薄膜盛會期間，透過各地專家學者在薄膜研究方面的成果分
享，使本人研究動力大幅提升，並經過與會學者的熱烈討論後，讓本人的學
術視野更開闊，且激盪出多元的研究思考，獲得非常寶貴的經驗，堪稱受益
良多。本人期望將所獲得的經驗，應用於本人的研究領域，包括薄膜結構設
計與薄膜化學改質等，進一步應用於薄膜分離程序，例如滲透蒸發與氣體分
 7
附件一 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/11/29
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 新型聚尿素界面聚合複合膜－製程、微結構鑑定與滲透蒸發效能之研究
計畫主持人: 黃書賢
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-197-003- 學門領域: 光電與能源高分子
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
