文獻探討 
 
 The following reviews mention some related literatures that propose certain existing methods 
for missing values imputation and gene regulation prediction respectively in microarray time series 
data. Each of them takes different points of view into consideration and they are with various 
disadvantages or limitations. We list some literatures related to missing value imputation and gene 
regulation prediction problems respectively in chronological order. Comparisons for these existing 
methods are also made for the two distinct issues. Afterward, we list some existing applications of 
gene ontology. 
Existing missing value imputation methods 
 To date, many imputation methods for handling missing values in microarray time series data 
have been developed. Troyanskaya et al. (2001) summarize and implement three methods: 
SVD-impute, weighted KNN-impute, and row average imputation. The results in the paper show 
that the KNN imputation outperforms SVD-impute and naive methods such as zero or row average 
imputation. The most suitable number of parameter k in KNN method is also proved to be set 
between 10 and 20 in the paper. Afterward, several imputation methods are proposed based on 
KNN. For example, Kim et al. (2004) develop a new cluster-based imputation method called 
sequential k-nearest neighbor (SKNN) method. The method imputes the missing values sequentially 
from the gene having least missing values, and uses the imputed values for the later imputation. The 
study is typically an example showing the effectiveness of KNN with some improvements on it. 
 Except KNN or KNN-based imputation methods, there are still other imputation methods 
proposed from different standpoints. Oba et al. (2003) propose an estimation method for missing 
values based on Bayesian principal component analysis (BPCA). The method combines 
mathematical theorems with corresponding parameters. The results of BPCA outperform the KNN 
and SVD imputations according to the authors’ evaluations. Moreover, an imputation method based 
on the local least squares (LLS-impute) formulation is proposed to estimate missing values in the 
gene expression data (Kim et al., 2005). Both KNN and LLS imputations need to find similar genes 
for a target gene while imputing gene missing values. Other proposed methods take various points 
of view into consideration. Regression modeling approaches are also used to solve the missing 
value imputation problem despite it is difficult to determine the parameters used for regression 
models (Choong et al., 2009; Choong et al., 2009; Shan and Deng, 2009).  
 For existing imputation methods, BPCA is shown to outperform others, but it is not easy to 
pairs (Mohammadi and Saraee, 2008; Xiang and Dai, 2008). This kind of external information for 
genes is proved to be helpful. As a result, to identify potential regulatory gene pairs, it is necessary 
to apply a similarity measurement method that not only has the capability of pointing out local 
similarity but is also effective even with certain existing outliers in microarray time series data. 
Furthermore, gene ontology information for genes should also be taken into consideration. 
Gene ontology based data analysis 
 Lord et al. (2003) investigate the validity of using GO information as semantic similarity for 
gens compared with using traditional sequence similarity. Effectiveness of taking GO annotations 
as external information for genes is proved in the work. The authors also recommend choosing the 
“is_a” relation between gene pairs when determining similarity for genes because “is_a” relation 
occupies almost 90% of all relations recorded. Consequently, we take the “is_a” relation into 
account in our approach because it is the most used relation in GO structure. 
 Similar usage of GO was proposed in Sanfilippo et al. (2009). In the study, GO terms are used 
as the information content. Semantic closeness is defined if the most immediate parent node is 
shared by two annotation terms. The authors also merged various GO-based similarity measurement 
algorithms that consider inter-ontological relations by translating each relative term into a 
hierarchical relation within a smaller sub-ontology. Effectiveness of using GO to facilitate 
microarray data analysis is shown in this work. 
 To our best knowledge, Tuikkala et al. (2006) is the first literature presenting methods that use 
gene ontology with some quantitative assessments. The authors proposed a typical approach that 
combines GO with gene expression values into processing to retrieve better missing value 
imputation results. The method proposed by the authors utilizes the information content for each 
annotation term in GO structure. According to the authors, probability of occurrence of each node 
has to be first calculated. This numeric value of each GO term is called the p value and it represents 
how informative this term is. If a term has a larger p value, it is often visited by most tracing paths 
in GO structure. As a result, the informative degree of this term is hence reduced. If the p values of 
GO terms that annotate a gene pair are large, these two genes tend to be less related. These 
applications of gene ontology approve that using gene ontology information properly helps 
microarray data analysis. 
horizontal directions respectively. 
Output: DTW distance for two sequences X and Y: 
 
),(1),( jie
mn
YXDTW           (4) 
 where lengths of X and Y are n and m, and ),( jie  denotes expression values of sequences 
X and Y at time slot i and j respectively. 
Application of Gene Ontology Information 
 Gene ontology (GO) is a structure with biological definitions and annotations for genes that 
describe the biological meanings of known genes. Generally, most known genes have specific 
annotations (terms) in GO structure within three independent domains: molecular function (MF), 
biological process (BP), and cellular component (CC). Terms within three above domains record 
and represent various molecular or biological meanings for each annotated gene from different 
aspects respectively. Molecular function considers the biological or biochemical activity at the 
molecular level. Biological process can be said as the combination of molecular function. It denotes 
a biological objective which genes contribute to. Cellular component records the place in cells 
where a gene product is active. One gene may have more than one annotation in each domain. Our 
approach takes the concept of Tuikkala et al. (2006) into account. Operations of the algorithm 
proposed by the authors can be briefly descried as follows: 
I. First find the sets of GO ids for each pair of genes being identified. 
II. Create a table recording the tracing path of all terms annotated for both genes. 
III. Calculate the probability of the occurrence of each term in the table. 
IV. Estimate all the parent-children relations of each term in the path-tracing table to determine 
whether the two genes have common ancestors. 
V. For genes that have shared parent nodes in the GO tracing path, calculate the mean 
probability of occurrence of all their matched GO term combinations. 
VI. The mean probability of occurrence is taken as the semantic dissimilarity between gene pairs. 
 We aim to perform missing value imputation and gene regulation prediction effectively with 
our similarity measurement for each gene pair. Our approaches take both gene expression values 
and external information for genes (semantic similarity) into account. We survey and analyze 
 GI,J = iJ
k
i
i eW


1
             (7) 
 Step 3. The weighted value  
 ),(
1
*
i
i ggSim
W               (8) 
where 

 k
i
iggSim
1
* )],(/(1[              (9) 
 and g* denotes the set of k genes closest to gi, Sim(g*, gi) is our similarity measurement as 
shown in equation (6). Missing values for the target gene are hence imputed with our approach. 
 When applying the KNN-based method for the imputation of missing values in microarray 
data, there are no constant criteria for selecting the best k-value. Choosing a small k value produces 
poorer performance after imputation. On the contrary, choosing a large neighborhood may include 
instances that are significantly different from the target with missing values. However, one study 
shows that setting k-value between 10 and 20 brings the best results for KNN imputation 
(Troyanskaya et al., 2001). KNN can be an effective and intuitive imputation method if it works 
with a proper similarity measurement for genes such as our approach. 
 After missing values are imputed with our imputation approach, we will then perform gene 
regulation prediction on microarray data with missing value imputed. Our approach first calculates 
and records the similarity for all gene pairs as equation (6). The average similarity scores for all 
gene pairs is then calculated, assume SIMmean. Gene pairs with similarity scores less then 
SIMmean are retained and recorded as potential regulatory gene pairs. These recorded gene pairs 
are subsequently compared with known regulatory gene pairs called Filkov’s datasets for validation. 
Afterwards, we compare the potential regulatory gene pairs identified by our approach with 
Filkov’s datasets and count the number of mapping gene pairs. Theoretically, potential regulatory 
gene pairs should have smaller similarity scores compared with the others within all gene pair 
combinations. The detail algorithm of our approach for gene regulation prediction is described as 
follows: 
 
結果與討論 
 在本研究計畫中，我們提出一個結合了 DTW 和 gene ontology 的方法來計算兩個基因之間
的距離，藉以從基因微陣列序列資料中來尋找到相似的基因，以利於該資料中的遺失值填補
和基因調控關係的預測。藉由此方法在兩個問題上都得到較佳的結果。我們在演算法和程式
開發上有一些改進，得以使用一般的個人電腦就可以完成計算。相關的研究成果，我們已發
表兩篇國際研討會論文和一篇國際期刊論文，另有一篇國際期刊論文已被接受。本研究的成
果可以進一步被開發為軟體工具，來提供生物資訊研究者進行基因調控關係的預測。 
以下為已發表的兩篇國際研討會論文篇名： 
Andy C. Yang, Hui-Huang Hsu, and Ming-Da Lu, “Applying Gene Ontology to Microarray Gene 
Expression Data Analysis,” in Proc. 2010 International Conference on System Science and 
Engineering (ICSSE 2010), pp. 412-426, Taipei, Taiwan, July 1-3, 2010. 
Andy C. Yang, Hui-Huang Hsu,and Ming-Da Lu, “Imputing Missing Values in Microarray Data 
with Ontology Information,” in Proc. IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics & 
Biomedicine Workshops (BIBM 2010), pp. 535-540, Hong Kong, Dec. 18-21, 2010. 
以下為已出版和即將出版的兩篇國際期刊論文篇名： 
Hui-Huang Hsu, Andy C. Yang, and Ming-Da Lu, “KNN-DTW Based Missing Value Imputation 
for Microarray Time Series Data,” Journal of Computers, vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 418-425, Academy 
Publisher, Finland, March 2011. (EI) 
Andy C. Yang, Hui-Huang Hsu, Ming-Da Lu, Vincent S. Tseng, and Timothy K. Shih, “Prediction 
of Regulatory Gene Pairs Using Dynamic Time Warping and Gene Ontology,” International 
Journal of Data Mining and Bioinformatics, in press, Inderscience, 2011. (SCI)  
 
Hui-Huang Hsu (GMail)  
寄件者: <tsengsm@mail.ncku.edu.tw>
收件者: <andyyung0215@gmail.com>; <huihuanghsu@gmail.com>; <dlj0938@gmail.com>
傳送日期: 2010年10月28日 下午 09:24
主旨: Acceptance Notification of DMBD'10
第 1 頁 (共 1 頁)
2010/11/18
Dear Andy C. Yang, Hui-Huang Hsu, and Ming-Da Lu, 
 
Congratulations! Your paper (S9212) entitled 
"Imputing Missing Values in Microarray Data with Ontology Information" 
has been accepted to DMBD'10.  
 
Enclosed at the bottom of this message, please find the review report for your paper. 
All submissions went through a rigorous review process. Please carefully take into 
account the enclosed comments by the reviewers, and submit your paper by 
**November 10, 2010** through the website of the main conference 
(http://www.math.hkbu.edu.hk/BIBM2010/). Please do not forget to register your paper 
by the same date.  
 
Thank you for your patience. We look forward to meeting you in Hong Kong. 
 
Best Wishes, 
 
Workshop Chairs, DMBD 2010 
 
measurements take the statistical or mathematical 
correlations among genes into consideration. These 
principles may be unsuitable to the microarray time-
series data because of the existence of outliers [5]. 
Outliers influence much on the correlation coefficient 
measurements, especially when there are two or more 
outliers occurring in the time-series data set. Also, 
when identifying similarity of two genes in microarray 
time-series data, comparing local similarity is usually 
more important than comparing all time slot points. 
This is because even genes with known regulations 
may have reaction delay or offsets among time axis in 
microarray experiment results [6].  
Moreover, external information such as gene 
ontology for genes themselves is utilized as a hint to 
improve the imputation accuracy [7-9]. This kind of 
external information can provide extra messages for 
genes to improve the accuracy of imputation. 
Combining this external information requires heuristic 
works as well. Besides KNN or KNN-based imputation 
methods, there are also several other works proposed 
from different aspects. Oba et al. propose an estimation 
method for missing values based on Bayesian principal 
component analysis (BPCA) [10]. BPCA is shown to 
outperform others. However, it is not easy to decide 
the number of principal axes while applying BPCA for 
missing value imputation. Moreover, BPCA is not 
practical in the case when many missing values occur 
in one time slot. 
In this paper, we propose a novel approach to 
impute missing values resulted from many reasons in 
microarray data. We first define a similarity 
measurement for gene pairs based on the combination 
of difference of gene expression values and gene 
ontology semantic closeness. This similarity 
measurement is then applied to work with the KNN 
method as the distance of each gene pair to estimate 
missing values in real microarray datasets. 
The remaining of this paper is organized as follows. 
In Section 2, details of our approach for missing value 
imputation are given by starting from the definition of 
our similarity measurement for gene pairs. Section 3 
described the involved datasets and the estimation of 
imputation accuracy. Experimental results are then 
presented and discussed in Section 4. The concluding 
remarks are drawn in Section 5 along with future work. 
 
2. Missing value imputation based on DTW, 
GO, and KNN 
 
In order to impute missing values effectively, we 
propose a novel and effective approach. Our approach 
takes both gene expression values and external 
biological information for genes into account. It is 
carried out with the following four steps. 
 
Step 1: Calculation of DTW distance for each 
gene pair. 
To find the closeness of gene pairs within their 
expression values, we choose the dynamic time 
warping (DTW) distance measurement [11,12]. DTW 
algorithm is used in our approach as the substitution 
for commonly-used Euclidean distance while 
estimating similarity between gene pairs within their 
expression values. This is because the importance of 
finding whether there exist subsequences with highly 
similar relations is emphasized while analyzing whole 
microarray time series data [13]. If two series with 
time slot points are given as input, the DTW algorithm 
can discover the best possible alignment between them 
by calculating the minimum sum of whole matched 
points on the two time series. DTW is a recursive 
algorithm that starts with matching each point-to-point 
pair from the first element to the last element on the 
two input sequences. With DTW mapping method, 
local similarity can be found as the best mapping path 
within the two sequences to be aligned. Equations of 
DTW algorithm are as follows: 
 
Distance of two time slot points: 
The distance between the elements of the two time 
series is computed as: 
ii yxjidis −=),(                  (1) 
Base Conditions: 
e(0,0) = 0; 
e(1,1) = dis(x1,y1)*WD; 
e(i,0) = Ќ for 1Љ i Љ I;               (2) 
e(0,j) = Ќ for 1Љ j Љ J;                 
where WD is the weighted value for the paths in the 
diagonal direction.   
Recursive Relation: 





+−
+−−
+−
=
Hji
Dji
Vji
Wyxdisjie
Wyxdisjie
Wyxdisjie
jie
*),(),1(
*),()1,1(
*),()1,(
min),(      (3) 
where Wv, WD, and WH denote the weighted values 
for the paths in the vertical, diagonal, and horizontal 
directions respectively. 
Output: DTW distance for two sequences X and 
Y: 
DTW (X,Y) = ),(1 jie
mn
∗
+
              (4) 
where lengths of X and Y are n and m respectively. 
 
536
(I) Preparation of a pairwise comparison matrix 
for each GO term 
The algorithm starts by preparing a pairwise 
comparison matrix for each GO term. To identify 
whether one GO term significantly annotates certain of 
differentially expressed genes, a corresponding matrix 
for the comparison of expression values of genes 
annotated by this GO term is created. The X-axis and 
the Y-axis in the matrix are expression values of the 
genes annotated by the GO term at time slot I, II, 
III…etc. For example, if we are going to identify a GO 
term A and see if it is informative or not, we will first 
create a matrix belonging to GO term A with 
expression values at each time slot for the genes 
annotated by GO term A listed in the matrix. 
 
(II) Identification of differentially expressed 
genes between two microarray data 
After the comparison matrixes of each GO term are 
created, we are now going to fill in each cell in the 
matrixes. A table recording all genes annotated by the 
GO term and the ratio of their gene expression values 
at certain time slots is build as the content of each cell 
in the matrix. For example, the cell (I, II) in the matrix 
indicates that gene expression values of all genes 
annotated by the GO term at time slot 1 divided by 
gene expression values at time slot 2 is performed. 
After repeating this operation, all cells except the 
diagonal line in the matrix are processed with different 
ratios standing for how differentially the genes are 
expressed between the two time slots. Next, we need to 
define a threshold for ratios of gene expression values 
so that genes with ratios of expression value for two 
time slots larger than the threshold are taken as 
differentially expressed genes. Cells with more than 
one differentially expressed gene in them are then 
marked gray in the comparison matrix. To define the 
threshold for the ratio of gene expression values, a 
statistical method is used. The statistical testing 
method is based on the following equation: 
P – value = 

−
−
),min( *Mn
j
N
n
MN
jn
M
j
C
CC
              (5) 
where N is the number of genes examined by the 
microarray experiment that we refer to as “population 
gene set”, M is the number of genes annotated to the 
matrix-linked GO term in the population gene set, n is 
the number of differentially expressed genes between 
microarray data, and j is the number of genes assigned 
to the matrix-linked GO term in the differentially 
expressed genes. Figure 3 is an example of this 
operation. 
 
 
Figure 3.Example of each cell in the 
comparison matrix 
 
 (III) Identification of data-specific GO terms 
The last step in the method is to determine whether 
gray cells are concentrated in any rows compared to 
whole cells. The theorem is very intuitive that if one 
GO term annotates genes which are significantly 
differentially expressed, then this GO term tends to be 
more informative than the other terms. After 
comparison matrixes are built for all involved GO 
terms, we now need to determine how enriched the 
gray cells are in each matrix. Similar to previous step, 
it requires a statistical operation that cannot be 
explained in detail due to space limitation. Please refer 
to [18] if interested. 
 
Step 3: Definition of the similarity measurement 
of gene pairs. 
Our approach aims to provide an accurate similarity 
measurement that takes both gene expression values 
and external information for genes into account so that 
the similarity measurement can be combined with the 
KNN method to impute missing values. We modify the 
equation proposed in [18] according to our evaluation 
as follows: 
),(*),(),( _ yx
DTW
yx
NEWGO
yx ggDggDggSim
α
= ʳʳʳʳʳʳʳ(6)ʳ
where DGO_NEW is our estimation of p values of all 
GO term pairs used to annotate gx and gy, ө is the 
positive weighted parameter, and DDTW is the DTW 
distance of (gx, gy). In equation (6), we replace 
Euclidean distance with DTW distance, and replace 
original p value estimation with our approach. This is 
because we consider that DTW is more suitable than 
Euclidean distance while calculating distance between 
gene expression values. Equally, we use our new 
estimation for semantic distance between gene pairs to 
retrieve higher accuracy. 
538
 
Figure 4.Imputation results for alpha sub-
dataset 
 
 
 
Figure 5.Imputation results for cdc28 sub-
dataset 
 
 
Acknowledgment 
This work was supported in part by National Science 
Council (NSC) with project number NSC 99-2221-E-
032-063. 
 
References 
 
[1] J. DeRisi, R. Iyer, and Brown P, “Exploring the metabolic 
and genetic control of gene expression on a genomic scale,” 
Science, vol.278, pp.680-686, 1997. 
[2] P.T. Spellman, G. Sherlock, M.Q. Zhang, V.R. Iyer, K. 
Anders, M.B. Eisen, P.O. Brown, D. Botstein, and B. Futcher, 
“Comprehensive identification of cell cycle-regulated genes 
of the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae by microarray 
hybridization,” Mol. Biol. Cell, vol.9, pp.3273-3297, 1998. 
[3] E. Acuna and C. Rodriguez, “The treatment of missing 
values and its effect in the classifier accuracy,” Classification, 
Clustering and Data Mining Applications, pp.639-648, 2004. 
[4] O. Troyanskaya, M. Cantor, G. Sherlock, P. Brown, T. 
Hastie, R. Tibshirani, D. Botstein, and R.B. Altman, 
“Missing value estimation methods for DNA microarrays,” 
Bioinformatics, vol.17, pp.520-525, 2001. 
[5] A.C. Yang, H.H. Hsu, and M.D. Lu, “Outlier filtering for 
identification of gene regulations in microarray time-series 
data,” in: Proc. of the 3rd Intl. Conf. on Complex, Intelligent 
and Software Intensive Syst., pp.854-859, 2009. 
[6] V.S. Tseng, L.C. Chen, and J.J. Chen, “Gene relation 
discovery by mining similar subsequences in time-series 
microarray data,” in: Proc. of the IEEE Symposium on 
Computational Intelligence in Bioinformatics and 
Computational Biol., pp.106-112, 2007. 
[7] A. Mohammadi and M.H. Saraee, “Estimating missing 
value in microarray data using fuzzy clustering and gene 
ontology,” in: Proc. of the IEEE Intl. Conf. on Bioinformatics 
and Biomedicine, pp.382-385, 2008. 
[8] Q. Xiang and X. Dai, “Improving missing value 
imputation in microarray data by using gene regulatory 
information,” in: Proc. of the 2nd Intl. Conf. on 
Bioinformatics and Biomedical Eng., pp.326-329, 2008. 
[9] Y. Yamada, K.I. Hirotani, K. Satou, and K.I. 
Muramoto, ” An identification method of data-specific GO 
terms from a microarray data set,” IEICE Trans. on Inf. and 
Syst., vol.E92-D, pp.1093-1102, 2009. 
[10] S. Oba, M. Sato, I. Takemasa, M. Monden, K. 
Matsubara, and S. Ishii, “A Bayesian missing value 
estimation method for gene expression profile data,” 
Bioinformatics, vol.19, pp.2088-2096, 2003. 
[11] C. Furlanello, S. Merler, and G. Jurman, “Combining 
feature selection and DTW for time-varying functional 
genomics,” IEEE Trans. on Sig. Processing, vol.54, pp.2436-
2443, 2006. 
[12] H.M. Yu, W.H. Tsai, and H.M. Wang, “Query-by-
singing system for retrieving karaoke music,” IEEE Trans. 
on Multimedia, vol.10, pp.1626-1637, 2008. 
[13] H. Kim, G. H. Golub, and H. Park, “Missing value 
estimation for DNA microarray gene expression data: local 
least squares imputation,” Bioinformatics, vol.21, pp.187-198, 
2005. 
[14] S. Salvador and P. Chan, “Toward accurate dynamic 
time warping in linear time and space,” Intelligent Data 
Analysis, vol.11, pp.561-580, 2007. 
[15] J.B. Kruskall and M. Liberman, “The symmetric time 
warping algorithm: from continuous to discrete,” in: Time 
Warps, String Edits, and Macromolecules: The theory and 
Practice of String Comparison, 1983. 
[16] Gene ontology website, URL: 
http://www.geneontology.org/, last accessed on October 5th, 
2010. 
[17] J. Tuikkala, L. Elo, O.S. Nevalainen, and T. Aittokallio, 
“Improving missing value estimation in micorarray data with 
gene ontology,” Bioinformatics, Vol. 22, pp.566-572, 2006. 
[18] Y.Yamada, K. Hirotani, K. Satou, and K. Muramoto, 
“An identification method of data-specific GO terms from a 
microarray data Set,” IEICE Transactions on Information & 
Systems, Vol. E92-D, No.5, May 2009 
 
540
  
CMCC – Centro de Matemática, Computação e Cognição. 
 
 
Universidade Federal do ABC 
 
Universidade Federal do ABC, Rua Catequese, 242, Edifício Canadá, CEP – 090.90-400 – Santo André - SP 
Tel. 11 4437 8403      www.ufabc.edu.br 
  
20th May, 2011 
Prof. Hsu Hui‐Huang 
Professor of Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering 
Tamkang University, Taiwan. 
No.151, Yingzhuan Rd., Danshui Dist., New Taipei City 25137, Taiwan (R.O.C.). 
 
Dear Prof. Hsu Hui‐Huang, 
 
INVITATION TO VISIT Federal UNIVERSITY of ABC 
 
On behalf of Federal University of ABC (UFABC), I would like to extend an invitation to you to 
visit Federal University of ABC  in July 2011 with a view to discuss possible collaboration with 
your institution. 
Federal University of ABC  (UFABC) values  input  from peer  institution  locally and abroad. We 
are very interested in forming a working relationship with Lanzhou University in research areas 
of  common  interest. We  hope  that  you will  also have opportunities  to discuss  cooperation 
agreements with other academic institution in Brazil, during July 1~2 and July 5~14. 
We are also glad to invite you join The 4th International Conference on Ubi‐media Computing 
(U‐Media 2011) hold in Sao Paulo from July 3rd to 4th, 2011, where researchers and faculties 
coming from all over the world will discuss technologies related to Ubiquitous computing and 
Internet of Things (IOT). 
 
Yours sincerely, 
 
Francisco Isidro Massetto 
Associate Professor 
Federal University of ABC 
define the relationship in knowledge base of different 
regions in 3D object. Marco Attene’s method [6] can be 
complete segment regions in 3D objects, but this method 
has to extra storage information, and users themselves to 
give semantic annotation. 
  In this paper, we want to develop method of 3D 
skeleton that only use multi-view images, and an 
automation of 3D object segmentation. The section 2 is 
several processes about creation of 3D skeleton. The 
section 3 is several processes about 3D object 
segmentation. The section 4 is our experiment results and 
section 5 is our conclusion and future works. 
2. 3D Skeleton Creation by Object Feature 
In research interests of 3D skeleton, there are many 
excellent methods to find the skeleton in the 3D object. In 
Greg Mori’s method [3], authors proposed an excellent 
method to create 3D skeleton in 3D space by sequential 
videos, and produce corresponding 2D skeleton in 
sequential videos. But, the proposed method can’t 
produce complete skeleton when human objects have 
shelter in hands or feet, already. In Clement Menier’s 
method [2], the proposed method can produce 3D 
skeleton by multi-view images and display 3D skeleton in 
real-time. But, this method may has noisy in source (input 
data) and lead to 3D skeleton will incompletion. So, we 
want to create 3D skeleton by novel method, and avoid 
those problem in above methods. 
2.1. Feature Points and Coordinate 
Transformation 
In our concept, we want to create 3D skeleton by 
feature points of object. So, we have to use an effective 
and robust method to find feature points of object that can 
be extracted and correct of feature points of object in 
images, effectively. We completed feature points 
matching by Speed-Up Robust Feature (SURF) algorithm 
in previous work [7]. So, we only introduce about feature 
points matching simply. In SURF algorithm, this method 
may make wrong matching results in same objects but not 
in different regions, we consider this problem is because 
objects have similar construction in different regions. In 
order to solve this problem, we have to segmentation 
regions of objects in images, and find feature points in 
same regions by SURF algorithm. The steps show in 
following: 
1. Separation Objects by Background Subtraction. 
2. Obtain 2D Skeleton by Rule-Based Thinning (RBT) 
Algorithm. 
3. Find Endpoints in 2D Skeleton. 
4. Segmentation Skeleton and Object. 
4.1 To find the feature points in difference regions of 
difference angle images by SURF algorithm. 
4.2 To remove erroneous feature points matching by 
block Sum of Absolute Difference (SAD). 
Results of feature points matching presented in Figure 
1, Figure 1.(a) and 1.(b) presented different pose in object, 
and we can find the feature points matching by our 
proposed method, effectively. 
(a) 
(b) 
Figure 1. Results of feature points matching. 
In coordinates transformation, we improve previous 
method [7], because result of coordinates transformation 
may different when we use different camera (parameter of 
camera will difference). So, we find a new method [1] of 
coordinate transformation that can be effected 
transformation in different camera, because we don’t use 
parameter matrix of camera in this method. We consider 
that objects in our environment will not change the height 
in object, though, in the coordinates of Y axis are fixed, 
similarly. Equations of coordinate transformation can be 
represented by: 
…….………..……..(1) 
…………………………..(2) 
Then, the values of Y axis are fixed, so we can rewrite 
the equation of ZW by:
.............................................................(3) 
In the method of coordinates transformation, (X1, Y1)
represent coordinates of feature point in one of angle 
169
Note that, method of determination neighbors is different 
than traditional SDF method. 
In step 3, Equation of normalization can be represent 
by: 
……(12) 
P represents a set that contain all SDF values. P(x)
represents the SDF value of center of gravity.   
represents parameter can be defined by user. In our 
method, the value of  is 4. 
3.2. Mesh Clustering by Gaussian Mixture 
In above section, we can obtain SDF value via 
normalization. In our method of segmentation, we use 
Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM) to cluster SDF value, 
and produce histogram by GMM values. We use 
histogram of GMM values to produce GMM curves, and 
segment 3D object in 3D space by GMM curves. The 
steps of our method are in the following: 
1. Clustering Triangle Meshes by Gaussian Mixture 
Model (GMM) Algorithm. 
2. Segmentation 3D Object by Curves of GMM. 
2.1 Find sequence of GMM curves by zero number 
in each GMM curves.
2.2 Give different color path in sequence of GMM 
curves.
2.3 Segmentation triangle meshes by first GMM 
curves that the values is not zero in first GMM 
curves.
2.4 Segmentation triangle meshes by remaining 
GMM curves, 
2.5 if(R_GMM(x)0 && (F_GMM(x)<threshold || 
F_GMM(x)=0)), then give corresponding color 
path of triangle meshes.
2.6 Repeat step 2.4 until all GMM curves been done, 
and end.
We cluster all SDF values of each triangle meshes that 
use Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM) algorithm, and 
build histogram by GMM values. Generating curves by 
different clustering q, and use curves of clustering to 
define regions in 3D object. The result of GMM 
algorithm shows in Figure 2. 
Figure 2. Result of GMM algorithm. 
In Figure 2, the green histogram represent number of 
data values. We define q=4 and obtain 4 clustering curves 
of purple curves below the Figure 2. 
Observation clustering curves, we can know the 
maximum value and zero value in each clustering curves. 
So, we segment all triangle meshes by number of each 
curves. We define the first segmentation region by 
maximum number of zero, and find the concatenation 
segmentation regions, similarly. Then, give different path 
in difference segmentation regions and give different 
color of different segmentation regions in 3D space. This 
method can be represented in the following: 
We use a teapot model that built by 3DsMAX, and 
show the segmentation result by different color regions in 
Figure 3. 
(a)                                (b) 
(c)                                 (d) 
Figure 3.Segmentation result of teapot model. 
171
(c)                                    (d) 
Figure 7. Result of segmentation 3D object in 3D 
human medol. 
Figure 7.(a) represent original human model that bulit 
by 3DsMAX, Figure 7.(b) to 7.(d) represent the 
segmentation result in different viewpoints. 
5. Conclusion 
In this paper, we proposed an improved method of 
creation 3D skeleton that use information of multi-view 
images, SURF algorithm and an effective method of 
coordinate transformation. We presented two algorithms 
about feature points matching and orientation of 3D join 
points by 3D K-means. In feature points matching, we use 
SURF algorithm that has been improved, and find the 
feature points in different regions of object. In orientation 
of 3D join points, we transform feature points in 3D 
space, and define 3D join points by improved method of 
K-means. 
  We also presented a method of 3D objects 
segmentation that use improvement Shape Diameter-
Function (SDF) and Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM). 
We try to reduce the steps in the method of SDF that can 
be reduced the compute time. Then, we use GMM to 
clustering the value of SDF, and show the results of 
different clustering by GMM curves. Final, we segment 
corresponding triangle meshes of 3D object by GMM 
curves. 
  In the future, we want to obtain more accurate of 
orientation in 3D join points, and improvement our source 
to change sequential videos of multi-view, and recover 
sequential actions of object by 3D skeleton. In 3D object 
segmentation, we want to recovered contents of shapes in 
3D object surface via the segmentation result. After 
works in above, we will develop 3D actors by combine 
3D skeleton and 3D object. 
References 
[1] Chun-Hong Huang, Tang, N.C., Wei-Sung Yeh, Che-
Min Hsieh, and Yi-Chun Liao, “Using multiple 
cameras to construct 3D avatar from 2D video based 
on thinning and tracking algorithm”, Conference, in 
Proceedings of the First IEEE International 
Conference on Ubi-Media Computing, China, July 31 
-Aug.1, 2008, pp. 249-254. 
[2] Clement Menier, Edmond Boyer and Bruno Raffin, 
“3D Skeleton-Based Body Pose Recovery”, 
Conference, Third International Symposium on 3D 
Data Processing, Visualization and Transmission, 
Chapel Hill, NC, June 14-16, 2006, pp. 389-396. 
[3] Greg Mori and Jitendra Malik, “Recovering 3D 
Human Body Configurations Using Shape Contexts”, 
Conference, IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis 
and Machine Intelligence, Vol. 28, No. 7, July 5, 2006, 
pp. 1052-1062. 
[4] Lior Shapira, Ariel Shamir and Daniel Cohen-
Or ,“Consistent mesh partitioning and skeletonisation 
using the shape diameter function”, The Visual 
Computer: International Journal of Computer 
Graphics, Journal, Vol 24, Issue 4, April, 2008, pp. 
249-259. 
[5] Marco Attene , Bianca Falcidieno and Michela 
Spagnuolo, “Hierarchical mesh segmentation based on 
fitting primitives”, Journal, The Visual Computer: 
International Journal of Computer Graphics, Vol. 22 
Issue 3, March, 2006, pp.181-193. 
[6] Marco Attene Francesco Robbiano Michela 
Spagnuolo and Bianca Falcidieno,”Characterization of 
3D Shape Parts for Semantic Annotation”, Conference,
Computer-Aided Design, Vol 41, Issue 10, October, 
2009, pp. 756-763. 
[7] Shih-Ming Chang, Joseph C. Tsai, Timothy K. Shih, 
Hui-Huang Hsu, “A Coordinate Transformation 
System Based on the Human Feature Information”, 
Conference, in The 17th International Conference on 
MultiMedia Modeling, Taiwan, January 5-7, 2011, pp. 
514-524. 
173
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：許輝煌 計畫編號：99-2221-E-032-063- 
計畫名稱：微陣列時間序列資料中之遺失值填補與基因調控關係預測 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 0% 
篇 
本 相 關 論 文 於
2010年7月 (計畫
開始之前) 發表
於台北舉辦的國
際研討會，故實際
貢獻百分比為零。
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 75% 
有一名碩士生領
薪 12 個月，另一
名只領薪 6個月。
博士生 2 2 68% 
有一名博士生領
薪 6個月；另一名
領薪 12 個月，但
是其中有 6個月領
取碩士等級的薪
津。 
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 0 75% 
兩篇期刊論文的
部分內容於計畫
開始前即已完成。
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 1 0 100% 章/本 專書之一章 
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
國外 
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
