表面電位與粒子大小於低介電薄膜之內孔洞的影響 
Effects of Electrostatic Dispersion on Polystyrene Sizes in Solution  
and Pore Sizes in the Porous Low-k MSQ Thin Films 
計畫編號：NSC96－2221－E－009－216－ 
執行期間：96 年 8 月 1 日 至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：呂志鵬 交通大學材料工程系教授 
 
一、摘要 
Incorporation of pores into dielectric materials 
had been a viable method to reduce dielectric 
constant (k) below 2.5. In the novel, 
late-porogen removal scheme, high-temperature 
porogen was employed to form porous low-k 
upon the completion of metallization layers by 
burn-out. However, these low-k/porogen films 
resulted in non-uniformly distributed, large pores 
presumably due to segregation of porogen in 
solution or spin-casted film during cure step. In 
this paper, electrostatic dispersion control of 
polystyrene- porogen in THF solvent by pH 
values was studied through Zeta potential 
measurement. The Zeta potential of PS solution 
changed from -18.5 mV at pH=7 (pure THF) to 
-38 mV at pH=10. At high pH value with larger 
absolute value of Zeta potential, larger repulsive 
force at polystyrene surfaces inhibited its 
aggregation and resulted in smaller particle size. 
The effect of electrolytes at fixed pH =10 was 
also investigated. Particle size analyzer and 
GISAXS were used to characterize the pore sizes 
in the cured porous MSQ ultralow-k thin films. 
Particle size analyzer indicated the PS particle 
sizes were 273 nm and 7 nm in pH=7 and pH=10 
individually. 2-D GISAXS analysis of MSQ/PS 
films showed the pore size formed PS porogen 
aggregated in the 2-phase films with increasing 
temperature and the porogen sizes were 24.7 nm 
for pH=10 and 12 nm for pH=7 condition. The 
addition of KOH(aq) yielded the best dispersion 
of polystyrene porogens in MSQ/PS/ THF 
solution due to its largest responsive force 
between polystyrene particles. Electrostatic 
dispersion control of polystyrene-porogen by pH 
values and electrolyte types in precursor solution 
was demonstrated to be effective in reducing the 
pore sizes and distribution of porous low-k MSQ 
thin films after the removal of high-temperature 
porogen at 450 ℃. 
二、計畫的緣由與目的 
The above-mentioned non-uniformly 
distributed relatively large pores in the porous 
MSQ films may be attributed to insufficient 
dispersion of porogen and the aggregation of 
porogen in the solution at room temperature, and 
in the spin-casted film during the curing step. 
Several approaches have been undertaken to 
improve the pore size and distribution in porous 
the materials. The correlation between the 
polystyrene dispersion in THF solvent and the 
pore sizes and distribution in the porous MSQ 
thin films was addressed. 
三、研究方法及成果 
5 wt% solution of pure polystyrene in THF 
was first prepared. Then, solutions with various 
pH values ranging from 3 to 12 were manually 
titrated with appropriate acid or base. The Zeta 
potentials of PS [5] with various pH values were 
measured using a Zeta Potential Analyzer 
(Zetasizer HSA3000, Malvern Instruments). 
Besides, the particle sizes of PS in pure THF 
(pH=7) and in THF at pH 10, which were 
prepared by adding 0.1M KOH aqueous solution, 
then the particle sizes were measured by 
Ultrafine Particle Analyzer (Honeywell UPA 
150). The solute consisting of MSQ and porogen 
was fixed at 3 weight percent, while PS porogen 
was kept at 25 wt% of solute. 
For MSQ/PS porogen system in this study, 
the solute consisting of MSQ and porogen was 
fixed at 3 weight percent, while PS porogen was 
kept at various wt% of solute. The MSQ and PS 
were first dissolved in THF separately. After 
using the ultrasonic agitation and stirrer to 
improve the solubility, MSQ and PS solution 
were mixed to make up MSQ/porogen solutions 
with various porogen loadings. Again, ultrasonic 
agitation and stirrer were employed to improve 
the miscibility of precursor solution. Then, the 
precursor solution was filtered through a 0.2 µm 
PTFE filter (Millipore Inc.), subsequently spun 
onto a (100) silicon wafer at 1000 rpm for 30 
seconds at room temperature. 
According to the past report [6] and our 
internal experimental data [7], fast-ramp curing 
inhibited the diffusion and segregation of 
porogen in the MSQ matrix, whose crosslinking 
was rapidly formed in the cure step. Therefore, a 
fast-ramp curing procedure was employed in this 
study. The MSQ/PS-porogen thin films were 
cured at 250 oC using a preheated hotplate for 30 
minutes to promote the matrix cross-linking. 
Then, the samples were further cured in a quartz 
tube furnace under N2 at a heating rate of 2 
°C/min up to 450 °C, then isothermal at 450 oC 
for 30 minutes to completely remove porogen 
and stabilize the structure to form porous low-k 
materials. Finally, the pore morphology of 
porous MSQ films were examined by Scanning 
Electron Microscope (SEM, JEOL-6700) and 
FIB-Scanning Electron Microscope (NOVA 
NANOLAB 2000 System, FEI Company). The 
pore size in the porous films was obtained by 
Grazing Incidence Small-Angle X-ray Scattering 
(GISAXS, NSRRC), and the pore size 
distribution was described by sphere model 
fitting. 
The porous dielectric films were further 
characterized by grazing incidence small angle 
X-ray scattering (GISAXS). In this paper, we 
used particulate system [8-9] to discuss the 
scattering data. The particles (pores) in the 
solvent (matrix) were considered, and particles 
concentration were low (the scattering 
dielectric constant (k) below 2.5. In the novel, 
late-porogen removal scheme, high-temperature 
porogen was employed to form porous low-k 
upon the completion of metallization layers by 
burn-out. However, these low-k/porogen films 
resulted in non-uniformly distributed, large pores 
presumably due to segregation of porogen in 
solution or spin-casted film during cure step. 
Fast heating rate and high pre-cure temperature 
has successfully reduced the pore size in porous 
MSQ low-k materials to some degree through 
the retardation of porogen segregation at 
temperature which MSQ crosslinking was 
rapidly formed. In this paper, electrostatic 
dispersion control of polystyrene- porogen in 
THF solvent by electrolytes was investigated 
through Zeta potential measurement. The Zeta 
potential of PS solution change from +32 mV at 
pH=3, to -18.5 mV at pH=7 (pure THF), then to 
-65 mV at pH=12. At high pH value with larger 
absolute value of Zeta potential, larger repulsive 
force at polystyrene surfaces inhibited its 
aggregation and resulted in smaller particle size. 
Specifically, the mean particle size was reduced 
from 293 nm to 7 nm, while the standard 
deviation was reduced from 89 nm to 10 nm 
using measurement by particle size analyzer, 
when pH was raised from 7 to 10. The effect of 
electrolytes at fixed pH =10 was also studied. 
The addition of KOH(aq) was shown to yield the 
best dispersion of polystyrene porogens in 
MSQ/PS/THF solution due to the largest 
responsive force between polystyrene particles.  
Finally, pore sizes and distribution of the 
porous MSQ ultralow-k thin films prepared from 
MSQ/PS/THF solutions were characterized by 
GISAXS. Films treated with KOH(aq) electrolyte 
at pH=10 showed 7 times reduction of minimum 
pore size from 24.6 nm for pH=7 to 12.6 nm for 
pH=10. The same trend was observed for the 
maximum pore size.  
In summary, electrostatic dispersion control of 
polystyrene-porogen by pH value and electrolyte 
types was shown to be effective in reducing the 
pore sizes and distributions the pore size and 
morphology of porous low-k MSQ thin films 
after the removal of high-temperature at 450 oC. 
Further research work is being carried out to 
eliminate the few but relatively large pores using 
surfactants and optimized cure profile. 
五、參考文獻 
1. K. Yamada, Y. Oku, N. Hata, S.Takada and, T. 
Kikkawa, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., 42, 1840 (2003). 
2. N. Hata, C. Negoro, K.Yamada, and T. Kikkawa, Jpn. 
J. Appl. Phys., 43, 1323 (2004). 
3. H.-J. Jacobasch, F. Simon, and P. Weidenhammer, 
Colloid Polym Sci 276, 434 (1998). 
4. B. W. Ninham and V. Yaminsky, Langmuir 13, 2097 
(1997). 
5. S. K. Wu, “Influence of Substrate Pattern and 
Colloidal pH on Self-Assembly of  Polystyrene 
Microspheres”, National Chung Hsing University MS 
Thesis (2005). 
6. A. Zenasni, F. Ciaramella, V. Jousseaume, Ch. Le 
Cornec, and G. Passemard, Journal of the 
Electrochemical Society, 154, G6 (2007). 
7. Y. H. Chen et al., unpublished data. 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-009-216- 
計畫名稱 新式兩相多孔性低介電材料及其製程之探討(III) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職
稱 
1.呂志鵬 
  交通大學材料所副教授 
2.徐國原 
交通大學材料所博士生 
會議時間地點 2008 年 7 月 28~31 日、中國上海 
會議名稱 2008 International Conference on Electronic and High Density Packaging，ICEPT-HDP 
發表論文題目 
1. Novel Pore-sealing Technology in the Preparation of Low-k 
Underfill Materials for RF Applications （ORAL） 
2. Thermal Behavior Analysis of Lead-free Flip-Chip Ball Grid 
Array Packages with Different Underfill Material Properties 
（Poster） 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
吾人於今年四月（2008/04）獲知由中國上海復旦大學、中國電子學會生產
技術學分會（CIE-CEPS）、國際電子與電氣工程師協會元件製造與封裝分會
（IEEE-CPMT）及國際微電子學與封裝協會（IMAPS）聯合主辦，責成上海復
旦大學材料科學系於 2008 年 7 月 28-31 日在上海浦東協辦的 2008 年電子封裝和
高密度集成技術國際會議（2008 International Conference on Electronic and High 
Density Packaging，ICEPT-HDP）之邀稿通知。因此便著手將進行中之低介電底
膠填充材料開發研究計畫的實質成果整理成章，並完成大綱投稿程序；於五月
初（2008/05）即接獲主辦單位審稿通過之通知，亦被同意為材料分項之口頭報
告。同時本實驗驗室另一篇關於不同底膠材料用於覆晶封裝之熱性質分析研究
亦獲得主辦單位接受投稿，並列入海報張貼（Poster）之分項。吾人等依規定於
  本次會議並進行優良論文評鑑，並選出前三名優秀論文進行表揚，吾人等
投稿之”Novel Pore-sealing Technology in the Preparation of Low-k Underfill 
Materials for RF Applications" 被大會評審委員核定為優秀學生論文獎第一名，
並接受日月光公司的表揚及獎勵，此一肯定給予本實驗室莫大的鼓舞。 
   
二、 與會心得 
本次會議所受邀之學術論文報告整體水準尚佳、有部分主題新穎，基本上
呈現了當前國際微電子封裝技術發展的研究水準和發展趨勢。其中主題論壇各
知名先進則對於國際微電子封裝發展技術有精闢的回顧以及未來發展深入的預
測。 
吾人除參與主題論壇及專題報告之外，亦有聆聽關於電子構裝材料及技術
發展趨勢之相關課程，課程中主講者 William Chen（IEEE-CPMT, USA）及 C.P. 
Wong（GIT, USA）分別就 ITRS Roadmap 以及未來封裝的材料需求進行深入分
析。吾人參照主題論壇的專家分析報告以及課程演講內容發現，未來高密度封
裝的趨勢必定往幾個重要方向發展： 
1. 3D 電子封裝設計及製程發展： 
為減少電子產品之體積及重量，而且避免高頻傳輸所引起的電磁效
應，短的傳遞路徑將是不可避免的發展趨勢。諸如：Soc, SiP, Sop, PoP, PiP
以及 TSV 等技術。 
2. 類比邏輯及數位設計之分野： 
由於應用領域之區分，電腦資訊等高階產品的設計概念將逐漸不同
附件：附上本次會議相關活動之照片。 
 
學生徐國原進行口頭報告                呂志鵬教授與學生於會場合影 
 
上海交大李明教授、華中科技大學吳懿平     呂志鵬教授與學生於海報張貼會場留影 
教授及台灣交大呂志鵬教授合影 
 
學生徐國原獲得最佳論文獎之領獎情形，並與日月光副總及協理合影 
