Figure 1 shows a general structure of a single-cell-gap PVA TR-LCD. As in a typical TR-LCD, it
consists of a transmissive T region (or sub-pixel) and a separate reflective R region (or sub-pixel) as
shown on the left and right hand sides of figure 1 respectively. Figure 2 illustrates the principle of the
generation of fringing and vertical electric fields by the patterned electrodes in the upper and lower
substrates in a PVA LC cell. The fringing fields generated drive the VA-LC molecules to different
directions and multi-domain structure is formed and hence wide-viewing-angle property can be
achieved. (Note: In the above figures, the substrate layers have not been shown. Additional
compensation films such as negative c plates have also been omitted for simplicity.) Due to the
double-path on reflection, the reflection R usually rises much more rapidly than the transmission T
does as the applied voltage V increases in a single-cell-gap TR-LCD. An example of this is shown in
Figure 3 for a single-cell-gap PVA TR-LCD with electrode width =50m and electrode gap =10m in
both T & R regions. The simulation results were obtained using the commerically available 2D LCD
simulation software “2DimMos” from autronic-Melchers, Germany. The LC parameters used for this
and all of the following simulations in this paper are: LC birefringence n= 0.1, LC dielectric
anisotropy= -4, LC cell gap d = 3.5m and VA-LC pretilt angle = 90o. As shown in figure 3, this
rapid rise in reflection results in very mismatched R-V and T-V curves and leads to difficulty in
obtaining high optical efficiency for both T & R at the same driving voltage. (At 2.25V, R is ~ 58%
whereas T is only ~38%.)
Fig. 2: Generation of fringing and vertical fields in a
PVA LC mode. The fringing fields provide two
different tilt directions for the LC molecules to
generate a multi-domain structure and hence
wide-viewing-angle property.
VA LC molecules
o
Fig. 4: Definitions of two new parameters W and
G of the PVA electrode. W is the “overlapping”
region between the upper common electrode and
the lower pixel electrode whereas G is the
Fig. 5: New design of the PVA electrode, which has no
overlapping region (i.e. W=0m) between the upper
common electrode and the lower pixel electrode. We call
this a “Half-electrode”design. In this design, the electrode
width and electrode gap are now both = G.
Upper substrate
Lower substrate
G
W
Common
electrode
Pixel
electrode
Upper substrate
Lower substrate
G
Fig. 6: Simulation results of the T-V and R-V curves for a single-cell-gap PVA TR-LCD with
and without using “half-electrode” design:
“A”= T-V curve with W=3m and G=6m
“B” = R-V curve with W=3m and G=6m
“C” = R-V curve with half-electrode design G=8um
“D” =R-V curve with half-electrode design G=10um
(LC parameters: n=0.1, =- 4, cell gap d=3.5m. Simulation results obtained using
2DimMos.)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
V(rms)
R
&
T
%
TW3
G6
RW3
G6
RG8(
F)
RG10
A
B
C
D
ii) OCB TRLCD
Another LC mode that we propose for TRLCD is Optically Compensated Bend Mode (OCB). The
main advantage of OCB mode is their intrinsic fast response time that is available. Similar to the
matching principles and process of the PVA TRLCD above, in order to match T-V & R-V curves of
OCB, we propose to use different pretilt angles for the T & R regions. The operation principle and the
pretilt angle settings are shown in figures 9 & 10. Note that the in OCB mode we need to apply a bias
voltage such that the LC molecules can be changed from Splay to Bend mode as shown in fig. 9. We
obtained the matching results by using a 1D LCD simulation software “DiMos”purchased from
Germany as shown in fig. 11.
After many different sets of matching, our best matching results are obtained by having the pretilt
angle = 13o in the T region and pretilt angle = 43o in the R region as shown in fig.12. The cell gap used
in this model is 8m thick.
Fig. 9: Operation Principle of OCB mode
