1摘要
本文提出在複雜運輸場站空間中設計最短路徑緊急疏散逃生指示系統的方法，在假
設障礙物為多邊形的條件下，本研究提出演算法產生簡化可見度圖以分析運輸場站之
幾何佈設對行人移動行為之影響，接著利用最短路徑演算法計算各位置到出口的路
線，以求得最佳逃生指示安裝位置以及相關之疏散方向資訊。本研究設計之最佳逃生
指示系統的方法有三個特點：一、行人在任何位置皆可看見至少一個逃生指示，二、
任一指示往下一指示之資訊明確，不需要行人本身的判斷，三、可引導行人經由最短
路徑抵達出口。逃生指示系統最佳化後，可藉由行人細胞自動機評估其績效及檢討該
場站之緊急疏散瓶頸，研究最後以一運輸場站進行實例驗證。
關鍵詞：細胞自動機、逃生指示、緊急疏散、行人模擬、靜態地面場、可見度圖
Abstract
The paper proposes a method for designing optimal evacuation guidance systems
in complex transportation facilities. A visibility graph is used to analyze the geometry
of the facilities in a manner consistent with actual human behavior. An algorithm for
generating a simplified visibility graph and finding candidate sign locations is designed
assuming polygonal obstacles. After a shortest path algorithm is executed on the graph,
the optimal evacuation sign installation locations and the associated evacuation
direction information can then be found by calculating the best routes from all origins
to the exit. The guidance systems designed by the proposed method have three features.
First, all pedestrians are covered by the guidance system. Second, after a pedestrian
finds the first sign, the evacuation direction information is provided unambiguously
without requiring any judgment on the part of the pedestrian. Third, the guidance
allows a pedestrian to evacuate to the closest exit via the shortest path. After the
optimal guidance system is determined, a cellular automata pedestrian model is used to
evaluate the performance of the guidance system and identify the bottlenecks of the
current geometry and evacuation guidance design. Finally, an example based on a
transportation terminal is presented to validate the methodology.
Keywords: cellular automata, emergency sign, evacuation guidance, pedestrian
simulation, static field, visibility graph.
一、前言
運輸場站內部的幾何設計是影響疏散時間的關鍵因素之一，除此之外，緊急疏散逃生
指示系統對行人逃離危險區域所需時間亦極為重要。由於建築物之設計和功能種類眾多，
我國「各類場所消防安全設備設置標準」對於逃生指示設備僅提供一般性規定，其中包括：
出口標示燈、避難方向指示燈與避難指標應安裝在走廊、樓梯和出口，在建築物中任何地
點和逃生標示之間的距離必須小於一定值（10-60m，根據建築物的類型而定）以及避難方
向指示燈與避難指標應設在建築物的轉角處等。由於設置標準沒有提供進一步的規定，許
多重要因素未被納入考量，因此，依據相關規定設置之逃生指示可能缺乏效率，此問題對
於動線複雜之大型運輸場站尤為嚴重，舉例來說：標準中並未規定逃生指示必須為直接可
見，因此在緊急狀況發生時，某些地點可能缺乏逃生指示以引導行人，同時，相關規定並
沒有考慮到最短路線，因此當有多個路線供行人選擇時，沒有任何資訊來供行人判斷最佳
路線，以上問題皆可能會增加行人疏散逃生之時間。
本研究的目標乃是建立最佳逃生指示系統的設計方法。本研究中定義「最佳」為此系
統中行人皆利用最短路徑到達距離最近的出口，必須強調的是由於疏散時間取決於行人的
3似模式，由靜態地面場與動態地面場(dynamic field)所組成，靜態地面場是指特定位置對行
人的吸引力，而動態地面場則是記錄行人移動的軌跡，行人的移動係由靜態地面場、動態
地面場以及鄰近可移入之空細胞等因素共同決定。Chu (2009)提出了一個複雜度與行人數量
呈線性關係之 CA 模式，相較於電腦代理人模型和社會行為力模型之二次方複雜度， CA
模型的主要優點之一即為模擬速度，Schadschneider 等人(2008)指出 CA 模擬在大規模的行
人下仍可較現實時間快。
另外，Burstedde 等人(2001)指出 CA 可重現行人移動的重要特性，其中包括路口之交
會、排隊、壅塞、不同方向輪流通過瓶頸、跟隨他人等行為。由於本研究的重點在於緊急
疏散，因此 CA 是否具有重現恐慌情況下行為之能力至為重要。恐慌狀況下行人行為之完
整探討可見 Helbing 等人(2000)，其中包括了：
1. 群體行動，意即人們會跟著其他人走。
2. 移動的速度比平常還快。
3. 通過瓶頸時缺乏秩序。
4. 在出口處會造成圓弧狀的阻塞。
5. 擁擠的程度會逐漸增加。
6. 行人忽略其他出口
7. 受傷或是跌倒的人成為障礙物。
8. 人們會互相推擠。
9. 人群的相互作用會產生危險的壓力，而極大的壓力會使得鋼筋彎曲或牆壁倒塌。
CA 模型在理論可包含上述項目的前六項行為，且大部分已在先前提到的研究中實作，
其中，群體行為被認為是恐慌行為之代表行為，例如，Helbing 等人(2000)提出的社會行為
力行人模型即是以跟隨他人移動之程度高低表示恐慌程度，意即，在正常狀況下，行人會
根據自己的判斷來移動，然而在恐慌的狀況下，行人會傾向跟隨鄰近的其他行人移動，恐
慌的程度越高，行人跟隨他人移動方式之行為越為明顯，此一理念與 CA 模型裡的動態地
面場相符，可見利用群體行為之程度表達行人恐慌狀況為一被廣泛接受之方法。如前所述，
CA 模型為實際行人移動之離散空間近似模型，因此無法模擬出上列恐慌行為中的少數行
為，包括了行人之間的碰撞以及行人與障礙物或牆壁間的推擠。最後，雖然 CA 模型之空
間係以固定大小之細胞表示，但仍可以藉由改變細胞大小的方式來捕捉行人體型以及速度
上的差異性(Kirchner 等人, 2004)。所以，基於以上討論， CA 模型可充分且有效率地模擬
出行人的行為，因此，在本研究之實例分析中將以 CA 模型進行逃生指示系統之效能評估。
2.3路徑尋找
許多研究針對不同個體(例如：行人與昆蟲)之路徑尋找行為進行研究(Golledge, 1999)，
而各式路徑尋找之演算法亦被使用在重現行人的移動行為(Millington and Funge, 2009)或
機器人的移動軌跡(de Berg 等人, 2008)，相關研究大多著重於單一個體之行為，不適用於
複雜空間中大規模行人的疏散行為。因此，許多行人疏散的研究採用潛勢場(potential field)
的概念，其理念為目的地會有較高的潛勢，距離目的地越遠則潛勢越低，障礙物的潛勢最
低，而行人傾向往潛勢高的方向移動。由於在緊急疏散狀況下，出口就是所有行人共同目
的地，因此事先計算潛勢場可大幅減少個別行人層次之運算，提昇模擬之效率。Marinova
等人(2003)利用潛勢場來找尋行人的逃生路徑，先將建築物裡特殊位置(例如：門、交叉路
口、樓梯) 等轉折點與出口連接而形成一個路網，路網建構完成後，行人在模擬過程中可
以照著路網逃生以減少模擬的時間。Korhonen 和 Hostikka (2009) 在 FDS-Evac 模型中所使
用的社會行為力模型也利用類似之方法，這個模式用一個流場模擬尋找路徑的過程，同樣
地，為了重現行人繞行障礙物之行為，Nishinari 等人(2004)提出了一個可見度圖的方法來
5建築物，以下將多邊形障礙物之「頂點」改用建築物之「角落」稱呼。構建可見度圖最簡
單的作法為是連接所有直接可見之兩個角落，但依照此方法建立之可見度圖將含有多餘的
節點和節線，若進一步分析障礙物和行人之間的相對位置，則可以減少節點和節線的數量，
其相對關係分析如圖 2 所示。圖中行人（灰色圓形）前方有一個凸多邊形的障礙物（黑色
多邊形），因為行人視線被障礙物阻擋，因此無法看到障礙物後方的逃生出口。如果要引導
行人繞過障礙，首先應引導行人到角落 d 或角落 a，因此，可考慮在角落 a、b、d 設置逃生
指示。安裝逃生指示在角落 c 顯然無法幫助行人繞過障礙，因此不需考慮在角落 c 安裝逃
生指示，最後，因為角落 e 和 f 對行人是不可見的，因此亦不需考慮。
f
a
c
d
e
b
圖 2 行人可見度示意圖
歸納圖 2 之範例可得到以下關係：由任一位置觀察一障礙物，該障礙物將阻擋視線而
產生一不可見範圍，而該障礙物之角落可分為三類：第一類為「側角」（如角落 a、b、d），
側角指的是障礙物最右邊和最左邊的角落，這些角落的特點為這些角落可看到觀察位置之
不可見範圍，第二類為「中間角」（例如：角落 c），中間角為兩側角之間的可見角落，第三
類為「不可見角」（例如：角落 e、f），由於行人無法直接前往任何不可見角，不可見角不
可能連接行人而形成繞過障礙物之最短路徑，因此不需予以考慮。接著，行人可連接至中
間角，但中間角無法看到被阻擋之範圍，因此勢必再延伸至其他角落(如角落 d)，由於三角
形的兩條邊長度總和一定會大於第三邊的長度，若直接連接至角落 d 可縮短路徑，因此連
接中間角之路徑亦非繞過障礙物之最短路徑。由此可知，由某一方向觀察障礙物，只有該
障礙物之側角可能為逃生指示之設置位置，除此之外的角落皆可不需考慮，如此可以簡化
可見度圖，建立簡化可見度圖之演算法可見 Chu (2010)。
3.2最佳逃生指示
雖然逃生指示可以設置在可見度圖中的任何角落，但是只有設置在其中特定角落可形
成最佳逃生指示。尋找最佳逃生指示之方法如下，首先將出口納入可見度圖中並連結出口
及其可見角落，接著執行最短路徑演算法以求得所有角落至出口之最短路徑以及距離。由
於本研究要求所有位置皆有可視指示，因此以下步驟必須對建築物中所有空間重覆：選擇
該位置經由各可見角落往出口之總距離中最小者為起始角落，則由該起始角落至出口最短
路徑上之所有角落皆必須設置逃生指示。在建築物中所有空間皆計算過後，即可得到最佳
逃生指示系統之設置角落以及其指示方向，該演算法之詳細內容請見 Chu (2010)。圖 3 為
一逃生指示系統的範例。黑色矩形代表障礙物，灰色實線為本範例之可見度圖，綠色出口
圖案則為行人逃生之目的地，灰色圓形代表行人，依據上述方法並以 A、B、C、D、E 等
位置為例，紅色矩形即為需設置逃生指示之角落，灰色虛線則代表各行人所選擇之起始逃
生指示，藍色箭頭代表逃生指示之方向。
7個逃生指示，任一指示往下一指示之資訊明確，不需要行人本身的判斷，而且，行人依照
指示可經由最短路徑抵達出口。圖 6 則顯示細胞自動機之模擬結果，圖中顯示之內容為 5000
人疏散 100 秒後之情況，可用來評估逃生指示設計之績效，另外，圖中由紅圈標示之區域
顯示即使在提供最佳指示的條件下，大規模行人疏散仍可能因為建築物幾何設計的因素(剪
票口、走廊、柱子)造成擁塞，此時可考慮改變空間佈設或提供替代逃生資訊等措施，以進
一步提昇緊急疏散效率。
圖 5 最佳逃生指示系統之設置位置及指示內容
圖 6 行人細胞自動機模擬
五、結論
本研究提出運輸場站最佳逃生指示系統之設計方法，該方法所建立之逃生指示系統具
9Kirchner, A., Kluepfel, H., Nishinari, K., Schadschneider, A., and Schreckenberg, M. (2004).
Discretisation effects and the influence of walking speed in cellular automata models for
pedestrian dynamics. Journal of Statistical Mechanics: Theory and Experiment, 2004(10),
1–21.
Kirchner, A., Nishinari, K., and Schadschneider, A. (2003). Friction effects and clogging in a
cellular automation model for pedestrian dynamics. Physical Review E, 67,
056122–1–056122–10.
Korhonen, T. and Hostikka, S. (2009). Fire Dynamics Simulator with Evacuation: FDS+Evac,
Technical Reference and User’s Guide. VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland,
Finland.
Lo, S., Huang, H., Wang, P., and Yuen, K. (2006). A game theory based exit selection model for
evacuation. Fire Safety Journal, 41(5), 364–369.
Marinova, R., Ourdev, I., Stoilov, V., Brinkworth, L., and Gu, J. (2003). Pedestrian motion in
realistic virtual reality environments: Application to high-rise building evacuation.
Pedestrian and Evacuation Dynamics 2003, 283–293.
Millington, I. and Funge, J. (2009). Artificial Intelligence for Games. Morgan Kaufmann
Publishers, Burlington, MA, USA, 2 edition.
Nishinari, K., Kirchner, A., Namazi, A., and Schadschneider, A. (2004). Extended floor field CA
model for evacuation dynamics. IEICE Transactions on Information and Systems, E87-D(3),
726–732.
O’Neill, M. (1991). Effects of signage and floor plan configuration on wayfinding accuracy.
Environment and Behavior, 23(5), 553–574.
Rohnert, H. (1986). Shortest paths in the plane with convex polygonal obstacles. Information
Processing Letters, 23(2), 71–76.
Schadschneider, A., Klingsch, W., Klupfel, H., Kretz, T., Rogsch, C., and Seyfried, A. (2008).
Evacuation dynamics: Empirical results, modeling and applications. Encyclopedia of
Complexity and System Science (B. Meyers, ed.), Springer, Berlin, Germany.
Tang, C., Wu, W., and Lin, C. (2009). Using virtual reality to determine how emergency signs
facilitate way-finding. Applied Ergonomics, 40(4), 722–730.
11
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形：
論文：□已發表(註：審查中) □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無
其他：（以 100 字為限）
期刊論文
1. Chih-Yuan Chu，Optimal Emergency Evacuation Guidance Design for Complex Building
Geometries，審查中，IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems。
2. Chih-Yuan Chu，Adaptive guidance for emergency evacuation in transportation facilities，審
查中，Journal of Transportation Research Record。
3. Chih-Yuan Chu，Condition-Dependent Maintenance Effectiveness in Dynamic Performance
Models for Transportation Infrastructure，審查中，ASCE Journal of Infrastructure Systems。
研討會論文
1. Chih-Yuan Chu，Optimal Emergency Evacuation Guidance for Transportation Facilities，2010
World Conference on Transport Research (WCTR)，葡萄牙里斯本，2010 年 7 月 11-15 日。
2. Chih-Yuan Chu，Estimation of Condition-Dependent Maintenance Effectiveness for
Transportation Infrastructure Management Using Extended Kalman Filter，2010 World
Conference on Transport Research (WCTR)，葡萄牙里斯本，2010 年 7 月 11-15 日。
3. 朱致遠、羅仕東，行人細胞自動機與運輸設施疏散設計，中華民國運輸學會 98 年學術論
文研討會，台灣，桃園縣蘆竹鄉，2009 年 12 月 3-4 日。
4. 朱致遠，以擴展式卡曼濾波校估鋪面現況與維修績效之相關性，第十五屆鋪面工程學術
研討會，台灣，台中市，2009 年 10 月 8-9 日。
5. Chu, C.-Y. and Luo, S.-D.，Cellular Automata Pedestrian Models for Building Design and
Hazard Response，2009 Taiwan-Japan Joint Symposium on the Advancement of Earthquake
Hazard Mitigation Technology，台灣，桃園縣中壢市，2009 年 9 月 21-22 日。
6. 朱致遠、何庭武，非線性動態績效預測模式在土木設施管理之應用，九十八年電子計算
機於土木水利工程應用研討會，台灣，新竹市，2009 年 9 月 3-4 日。
7. 朱致遠、羅仕東，細胞自動機行人模擬與建築物疏散設計，九十八年電子計算機於土木
水利工程應用研討會，台灣，新竹市，2009 年 9 月 3-4 日。
1國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告
日期：99 年 10 月 19 日
一、參加會議經過
本人於 2009 年 9 月繳交兩篇摘要至本研討會並於 2010 年 11 月被接受，接著在 2010
年 5 月繳交全文，接著在 Early Registration 期限內報名及繳交註冊費(EURO$720)。會議
期間為 2010 年 7 月 11-15 日，本人於 7 月 11 日搭乘中華航空在香港轉法國航空抵達法
國巴黎，再轉往葡萄牙里斯本。
該研討會之論文簡報時間為每人 15 至 20 分鐘，進行方式為作者簡報及問答時間，
本人兩篇論文之簡報時間皆在 7 月 13 日下午，簡報過程十分順利，聽眾發問踴躍，在場
次結束後仍有許多討論以及聯絡方式交換，充分達到國際學術交流之目的。
本人並參加研討會之 Special Interest Group 5: Transportation Infrastructure Systems
(SIG 5)會議，與研究興趣相同之各國學者及研究人員交換意見，並成為 ASCE Journal of
Infrastructure Systems (SCI 期刊)之研討會特刊(Special Issue for 2010 WCTR)客座編輯
(guest editor)之一，負責挑選題材適合之論文以及邀稿審查等相關事宜，此項工作為參加
本會議之額外收穫，實為一寶貴之專業經歷。
二、與會心得
2010 World Conference on Transport Research 為運輸領域之主要研討會之一，每三
年舉辦一次，研討會涵蓋各項重要運輸課題，包括空運、陸運、海運、以及複合運具，
吸引世界各國學界及產業界人士共襄盛舉，在摘要階段皆經過嚴格的篩選，部份欲轉
投期刊之論文並接受全文審查，因此研討會之水準甚高，對於本人之專業知識提昇有
極大助益。
計畫
編號
NSC 98-2221-E-008-078
計畫
名稱
行人細胞自動機與設施防災規劃
出國人
員姓名
朱致遠
服務機
構及職
稱
國立中央大學土木工程學系
會議
時間
99 年 7月 11 日
至
99 年 7月 15 日
會議地
點
葡萄牙里斯本
會議
名稱
(中文)
(英文) 2010 World Conference on Transport Research (WCTR)
發表論
文題目
(中文)
(英文)
1. Estimation of Condition-Dependent Maintenance Effectiveness for
Transportation Infrastructure Management Using Extended Kalman Filter
2. Optimal Emergency Evacuation Guidance for Transportation Facilities
OPTIMAL EMERGENCY EVACUATION GUIDANCE FOR TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES
CHU, Chih-Yuan
12th WCTR, July 11-15, 2010–Lisbon, Portugal
1
OPTIMAL EMERGENCY EVACUATION
GUIDANCE FOR TRANSPORTATION
FACILITIES
Chih-Yuan Chu (Assistant Professor, Department of Civil Engineering, National
Central University, Taiwan, Email address: jameschu@ncu.edu.tw)
ABSTRACT
The paper proposes a method for designing optimal evacuation guidance systems in complex
building spaces. A visibility graph is used to analyze the geometry of the building in a manner
consistent with actual human behavior. An algorithm for generating a simplified visibility graph
and finding candidate sign locations is designed assuming polygonal obstacles. After a
shortest path algorithm is executed on the graph, the optimal evacuation sign installation
locations and the associated evacuation direction information can then be found by
calculating the best routes from all origins to the exit. The guidance systems designed by the
proposed method have three features. First, all pedestrians are covered by the guidance
system. Second, after a pedestrian finds the first sign, the evacuation direction information is
provided unambiguously without requiring any judgment on the part of the pedestrian. Third,
the guidance allows a pedestrian to evacuate to the closest exit via the shortest path. After the
optimal guidance system is determined, a cellular automata pedestrian model is used to
evaluate the performance of the guidance system and identify the bottlenecks of the current
geometry and evacuation guidance design. A by-product of this research is an improved
method of calculating static fields in cellular automata simulations. Finally, an example based
on a transportation terminal is presented to validate the methodology.
Keywords: cellular automata, emergency sign, evacuation guidance, pedestrian simulation,
static field, visibility graph.
INTRODUCTION
The evacuation time of a building is one of the most critical measures of performance in its
emergency design. In addition to building geometry, the design of the emergency guidance
system is another key component that determines the time required for pedestrians to leave
hazardous areas. The laws and regulations related to evacuation guidance, e.g., exit and
evacuation direction signs, usually provide only general guidelines due to the great variety of
building functions and designs that exist. For example, two types of evacuation guidance exist
in the standards for fire safety equipment in Taiwan: exit signs are installed at the exits and
OPTIMAL EMERGENCY EVACUATION GUIDANCE FOR TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES
CHU, Chih-Yuan
12th WCTR, July 11-15, 2010–Lisbon, Portugal
3
validate the methodology. Finally, Section 5 provides the conclusion and recommendations
for future research.
LITERATURE REVIEW
This section discusses previous studies of evacuation guidance, and then summarizes the
major types of pedestrian simulation and the methods for path finding in complex geometries.
The section also reviews visibility graphs, which are useful for searching for the shortest paths
in such geometries.
Evacuation Guidance
Studies of evacuation guidance have focused on the relationship between the design of
evacuation signs (e.g., shape, text, patern, and height) and pedestrians’ ability to see them. 
Tang et al. (2009) studied the impact of evacuation guidance on route selection for
pedestrians using virtual reality. One of their findings was that people tended to move toward
doors regardless of the doors’ purpose; this is a problem if the doors do not provide a way out. 
Therefore, evacuation guidance that provides clear and correct information is very important.
Wong and Lo (2007) conducted experiments to study the effects on sign visibility of sign
height, pattern, color, and brightness as well as the age of pedestrians. Jin (2002) considered
the visibility of guidance systems under smoky conditions during a fire. Studies have also
addressed guidance system design; most of these examined how pedestrian behavior is
influenced by the design of guidance systems (Lo et al., 2006; Johnson and Feinberg, 1997;
O’Neil, 1991). However, studies of the optimal design of guidance systems are rare. Among
the few that do exist, Chen et al. (2009) used the maximum covering approach to determine
the optimal locations of exit signs. That study also used CA models, and pedestrians were
assumed to be attracted by signs as well as by exits and other pedestrians. Note that by the
definition of the maximum covering problem, there is no guarantee that all pedestrians will be
covered by a sign, which is one of the key issues of evacuation guidance systems highlighted
earlier. Therefore, the research into optimal evacuation guidance is still incomplete and
requires further attention.
Computer Simulation of Pedestrian Movement
A complete review of pedestrian simulation can be found in Schadschneider et al. (2008). The
most popular computer simulation models for pedestrian movement include agent-based
models (Batty et al., 1998; Batty, 2003), social force models (Helbing, 2001; Helbing and
Johansson, 2007; Helbing et al., 2000; Helbing et al., 2002), and floor field CA models
(Burstedde et al., 2001; Burstedde et al., 2002; Kirchner et al., 2003; Kirchner et al., 2004;
Nishinari et al., 2004). In essence, CA models are discrete-time and discrete-space
approximations of the actual phenomena. They consist of a static field representing the
attractiveness of locations and a dynamic field recording the trails of the pedestrians. The
movement of a pedestrian depends on the static field, the dynamic field, and the availability of
the adjacent cells. Chu (2009) proposed a CA implementation with a complexity linearly
OPTIMAL EMERGENCY EVACUATION GUIDANCE FOR TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES
CHU, Chih-Yuan
12th WCTR, July 11-15, 2010–Lisbon, Portugal
5
pedestrian–building interaction.2 Finally, although CA models use a cell structure, they are
stil capable of capturing diferences between pedestrians’ size and speed by discretizing the 
floor on a finer scale to allow pedestrians to move more than one cell per time step and to
occupy more than one cell at a time (Kirchner et al., 2004). Therefore, based this discussion,
CA models simulate pedestrian behaviors adequately and are highly efficient for the
large-scale simulation of human movement in complex environments. Thus, CA models were
chosen for this research to evaluate the performance of evacuation guidance systems.
Path Finding for Individuals
Studies have been conducted to understand the path-finding behaviors of individual agents
such as pedestrians and insects (Golledge, 1999). Many methods of path finding have been
developed to reproduce this behavior for pedestrians (Millington and Funge, 2009) and to plan
robot trajectories (de Berg et al., 2008). Note that most of these studies focused on behavior
at the individual level and are too computationally demanding for application to large-scale
pedestrian evacuations in complex geometries. Therefore, more efficient approaches such as
potential field methods have been adopted by many studies for large-scale pedestrian
evacuations. The concept of potential field methods is that destinations have higher values of
potential while obstacles have the lowest values, and the movement of the pedestrians is
driven by this potential field. In the case of emergency evacuation, exits are the destinations,
and exits and obstacles are common to all pedestrians. If these common factors affecting
pedestrian movement are considered in advance, the remaining efforts at the individual level
can be minimized. Marinova et al. (2003) used the potential field method to find paths for
pedestrians. The routes from representative locations to the exits were connected through the
turning points in a building (e.g., doors, intersections, and stairs) to form a network before the
simulation began. After the network was constructed, the pedestrians simply followed the
paths during the simulation to reduce the simulation time. Korhonen and Hostikka (2009)
considered social-force models in the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s 
FDS-Evac model (McGrattan et al., 2009). That model used a field that emulates the flow of
incompressible fluid for path finding. Similarly, to improve obstacle bypassing behavior,
Nishinari et al. (2004) proposed a visibility graph approach to calculate the static field in CA
and generate a more reasonable path-finding behavior. The contribution of these studies is
that reasonable moving behavior can be reproduced very efficiently for large-scale simulation.
These methods have several issues. The first is that they assume that the pedestrians
have knowledge of the building space, at least the locations of the exits. This is not true in
most emergency situations. In reality, when pedestrians have poor knowledge of the building,
they may follow indirect or incorrect routes. The second issue is that due to the complex
geometry of the building, the potential field may have traps if it is not calculated carefully and
may result in an erroneous and dangerous evacuation design. The third issue is that these
methods borrow techniques from other fields such as fluids, robotics, and imaginary potential,
which are not realistic for human movement. The final issue is that these approaches only
2Although falling due to pushing cannot be modeled in CA, it is still possible that people stop
moving for some reason and become obstacles to other people. Note that examination of the
probability and effect of this behavior requires more research and is not considered here.
OPTIMAL EMERGENCY EVACUATION GUIDANCE FOR TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES
CHU, Chih-Yuan
12th WCTR, July 11-15, 2010–Lisbon, Portugal
7
more realistic assumption would be that pedestrians have only incomplete information about
the building. Therefore, the objective of the methodology is to design an evacuation guidance
system so that when pedestrians follow the guidance, they evacuate as if they have perfect
knowledge of the building. This can be achieved by installing evacuation signs at proper
locations, each sign with appropriate evacuation direction information. The remainder of this
section describes the method for selecting candidate locations for signs, determining their
optimal locations, and deciding on the evacuation direction information each sign should
display.
Evacuation Sign Locations
From a pedestrian’s point of view, the shortest path toward the exit when obstacles are 
present would be moving either left or right of an obstacle directly ahead. Once the obstacle
no longer blocks the pedestrian’s line of sight, the pedestrian repeats the same process to 
bypass the next obstacle until the exit is reached. Therefore, identifying the turning points on
the shortest paths is critical so that necessary guidance can be installed at those locations.
Essentially, a visibility graph analyzes how an obstacle afects pedestrians’ visibility and how 
a pedestrian would move to bypass the obstacle. This reproduces human behavior better than
the other path-finding approaches described earlier. As a result, a visibility graph can be used
to determine locations where guidance is required and what evacuation direction information
is required at those locations. More importantly, this approach would be the most effective
because it guarantees shortest paths, which is not possible using other approaches.
To facilitate the construction of the graph, we assume that obstacles are convex polygons.
Note that other obstacle shapes (concave polygons or round objects) can be constituted or
approximated using convex polygons. The advantage of considering only convex polygons is
that the visibility graphs can be simplified. The term “vertex” is replaced by “corner” from this 
point forward as we move our discussion from computational geometry to actual buildings.
The naive approach to constructing a visibility graph would be to connect any two corners that
are directly visible to each other. However, a visibility graph constructed in this way would
have many redundant arcs and vertices. We can reduce the number of arcs and vertices by
analyzing the relative positions of the obstacle and the pedestrian. As shown in Fig. 2, the
pedestrian (circle) is blocked by the obstacle (black rectangle) and cannot see the exit behind
the obstacle. Guiding the pedestrian around the obstacle first requires guiding the pedestrian
to corner d , or to corner b then a . Therefore, we install signs at corners a and b or d .
On the other hand, installing a sign at corner c would be of no help in bypassing the
obstacle. Intuitively, corner c is not a candidate sign location for the pedestrian because a
shorter path via corner d can be found to bypass the obstacle. Corners e and f are not
considered at all because they are not visible to the pedestrian. As a result, the arcs
connecting the pedestrian and corners c , e , and f should not be included in the graph.
OPTIMAL EMERGENCY EVACUATION GUIDANCE FOR TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES
CHU, Chih-Yuan
12th WCTR, July 11-15, 2010–Lisbon, Portugal
9
A
ba
c d
e f
g h
D
E
B
C
visibility arc
evacuation direction
corner without
sign
corner with sign
pedestrian
obstacle
Figure 3 - Visibility graph and sign installation
Best Evacuation Guidance
After the visibility graph is constructed, the next task is to find the shortest paths from all
corners to the exit and the corresponding sign installation locations, which should be done
with a many-to-one shortest path algorithm. Note that the visibility is bidirectional; therefore, if
one corner can be seen by another, the opposite is also true, and the distances for both
directions would be identical. As a result, instead of running a many-to-one shortest path
algorithm to find the shortest paths from all corners to the exit, a one-to-many shortest path
algorithm is sufficient to find the shortest paths from the exit to all corners. The only required
change is inverting the unidirectional arcs in the graph before running the shortest path
algorithm and reversing the result of the shortest paths afterward. The shortest path from a
corner to the exit can be easily traced.
Although signs could be installed at all vertices in the graph, only some of them would be
useful for guiding pedestrians. We find the “best”corner for a pedestrian standing at a cell.
The “best”corner and all the predecessor corners are marked until we reach the exit. The
procedure is repeated for the complete building space (in the case of CA, all cells). After all
cells are calculated, we remove all the corners that were never marked and their associated
arcs. Finally, we install signs at all the remaining corners. To simplify the presentation, we
assume that the range of visibility of a sign is unlimited. This assumption can easily be relaxed
by adding relay signs between two distant signs. An algorithm that determines which corners
require sign installation can be found in Chu (2010).
Finding the Best Sign Location
In the algorithm above, a “best” corner must be selected for the cell under consideration. It
seems reasonable that pedestrians would select the signs closest to them. However, this
criterion does not generate the shortest route to the exit. For example, in Fig. 3, if pedestrians
B and E start the evacuation by following the signs closest to them ( b and f ,
respectively), they end up following paths b a exit  and f b a exit   , respectively. On
OPTIMAL EMERGENCY EVACUATION GUIDANCE FOR TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES
CHU, Chih-Yuan
12th WCTR, July 11-15, 2010–Lisbon, Portugal
11
ba
c d
e f
g h
B
C
ba
c d
e f
g h
B
C
ba
c d
e f
g h
B
C
Figure 4 - Illustration of sign locations for multiple exits
NUMERICAL EXAMPLE
We used floor B1 of the Taipei Train Station, the largest transportation terminal in Taiwan, as
an example to demonstrate the proposed methodology. Figure 5 shows the layout of floor B1
with a length of approximately 197 m and a width of 143 m. The floor provides space for ticket
checking and passenger waiting areas. The north part is reserved for conventional rail and the
south part is dedicated to high-speed rail. The four stairways connecting to the ground floor
above serve as the exits in this example and are marked with exit signs. Other stairways
connect to floor B2 below; however, because pedestrians would try to move upward during an
evacuation, these stairways are not considered in this example. All the areas in the figure that
constitute obstacles to pedestrians are black; these include walls, columns, and ticket gates.
The geometry of the obstacles was extracted from standard CAD drawings that were used in
the design and construction of the station. The use of CAD drawings to delineate the
obstacles is beneficial because the result is highly accurate and can be produced quickly.
As shown in the figure, the design of the floor is rather complex. The floor is separated
into several areas by ticket gates, which are indicated by red circles. The required separations
between the office areas and the passenger areas as well as between conventional railway
and high-speed railway further increase the complexity of the building geometry. Thus,
evacuation without proper guidance would be difficult for pedestrians. As an example, the
shortest evacuation path for pedestrian A is represented by the dashed blue line. A
pedestrian must make many decisions just to evacuate the building without getting lost. It is
unlikely that a pedestrian would take the shortest path without perfect knowledge of the floor
or the appropriate guidance proposed in this research.
OPTIMAL EMERGENCY EVACUATION GUIDANCE FOR TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES
CHU, Chih-Yuan
12th WCTR, July 11-15, 2010–Lisbon, Portugal
13
Figure 6 - Locations of optimal sign locations and evacuation paths
Next, we generate the static field that corresponds to the evacuation guidance system to
evaluate its performance with CA simulation. One of the simplest forms of the static field in CA
is the negative value of the Euclidean distance between the exit and the location under
consideration; the static field of the exit is zero and the value decreases as the distance to the
exit increases. This also means that the attraction of the exit to the pedestrian is the highest
and the attraction is low when the location is far from the exit. This type of field works well in a
simple geometry with no traps. Making walls and obstacles unattractive can further improve
the models to reproduce more reasonable human behavior (Helbing et al., 2000; Nishinari et
al., 2004). However pedestrians would easily be trapped in a complex geometry using this
type of field. For example, if the Euclidean distance is used, the static field of the floor would
be as shown in Fig. 7, where white indicates high attraction and black means no attraction.
Each contour line represents 10 m in the figure. As expected, the static field value is the
highest at the exits and decreases outwards. As a result, pedestrians move perpendicularly to
the contours toward the center of the circles in the simulation. A pedestrian encountering an
obstacle moves along the obstacle attempting to bypass it. However, pedestrians would
easily become stuck in traps due to the complex geometry.
Figure 8 shows the static field corresponding to the optimal sign design. It is calculated by
assuming that pedestrians select the “best” sign and folow the instructions to evacuate. The 
difference between the static field calculated with the simple method (Fig. 7) and the one
based on the optimal guidance (Fig. 8) is significant. When a pedestrian attempts to move
toward the exits, the static field based on the optimal guidance leads the pedestrian around
obstacles and toward the exit via the shortest path. Therefore, this static field can be used to
evaluate the performance of the optimal design quantitatively.
OPTIMAL EMERGENCY EVACUATION GUIDANCE FOR TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES
CHU, Chih-Yuan
12th WCTR, July 11-15, 2010–Lisbon, Portugal
15
performance of the optimal design can be quantitatively evaluated with a CA model. Note that
we cannot yet analyze the improvement achieved by adopting the optimal design because
methods for evaluating the performance of the existing design are still immature. Although
theories have been developed for path finding with partial knowledge of space or imperfect
guidance (Golledge, 1999), adequate computer models that reproduce this behavior for
large-scale evacuations in complex geometries are still unavailable. Thus, incorporating path
finding given incomplete information in the simulation will be a topic for future study to
estimate the benefit of implementing optimal evacuation guidance systems.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was supported by the National Science Council of Taiwan through research grant
NSC 98-2221-E-008-078.
REFERENCES
Ahuja, R. K., Magnanti, T. L., and Orlin, J. B. (1993). Network Flow: Theory, Algorithms, and
Applications. Prentice-Hall, Inc.
Batty, M. (2003). Agent-based pedestrian modeling. Advanced spatial analysis, P. A. Longley
and M. Batty, eds., ESRI Press, Redlands, CA, USA, chapter 5, 81–106.
Batty, M., Jiang, B., and Thurstain-Goodwin, M. (1998). Local movement: Agent-based
models of pedestrian flows. Centre for Advanced Spatial Analysis Working Paper
Series 4, 1–62.
Burstedde, C., Kirchner, A., Klauck, K., Schadschneider, A., and Zittartz, J. (2002). Cellular
automaton approach to pedestrian dynamics-applications. Pedestrian and Evacuation
Dynamics, M. Schreckenberg and S. D. Sharma, eds., Springer, Berlin, Germany,
87–97.
Burstedde, C., Klauck, K., Schadschneider, A., and Zittartz, J. (2001). Simulation of
pedestrian dynamics using two-dimensional cellular automation. Physica A, 295,
507–525.
Chen, C., Li, Q., Kaneko, S., Chen, J., and Cui, X. (2009). Location optimization algorithm for
emergency signs in public facilities and its application to a single-floor supermarket.
Fire Safety Journal, 44(1), 113–120.
Chu, C.-Y. (2009). A computer model for selecting facility evacuation design using cellular
automata. Computer-Aided Civil and Infrastructure Engineering, 24(8), 608–622.
Chu, C.-Y. (2010). Optimal Emergency Evacuation Guidance Design for Complex Building
Geometries. under review.
de Berg, M., Cheong, O., van Kreveld, M., and Overmars, M. (2008). Computational
Geometry: Algorithms and Applications. Springer-Verlag, New York, NY, USA, 3
edition.
Golledge, R. (1999). Wayfinding behavior: Cognitive mapping and other spatial processes.
Johns Hopkins University Press.
Helbing, D. (2001). Traffic and related self-driven many-particle systems. Reviews of Modern
Physics, 73(4), 1067–1141.
OPTIMAL EMERGENCY EVACUATION GUIDANCE FOR TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES
CHU, Chih-Yuan
12th WCTR, July 11-15, 2010–Lisbon, Portugal
17
Welzl, E. (1985). Constructing the visibility graph for n-line segments in O(n2) time.
Information Processing Letters, 20(4), 167–171.
Wong, L. T. and Lo, K. C. (2007). Experimental study on visibility of exit signs in buildings.
Building and Environment, 42(4), 1836–1842.
Estimation of Condition-Dependent Maintenance Effectiveness for Transportation
Infrastructure Management Using Extended Kalman Filter
CHU, Chih-Yuan
12th WCTR, July 11-15, 2010–Lisbon, Portugal
2
As advocated by Lytton (1987), including maintenance in performance models is
attractive for supporting maintenance decision-making in transportation infrastructure
management. However, this task is not trivial because the maintenance decisions of
transportation agencies depend on the facility condition for in-service roads. That is,
maintenance is more effective and more likely to be applied to a facility in poor condition. If
this dependence is not modeled properly, the model may have incorrect parameter signs
and/or a poor data fit (Ben-Akiva and Ramaswamy, 1993).
Dynamic models consider serial dependence, which means that the current condition
depends on historical condition. This consideration is particularly useful for estimating the
dependence of facility condition on maintenance by analyzing the time series of facility
conditions and maintenance schedules. Therefore, they have been used for infrastructure
performance modeling in Chu and Durango-Cohen (2008a) and Chu and Durango-Cohen
(2008b). Note that those studies rely on linear dynamic models and are incapable of
estimating maintenance effectiveness as a function of facility condition. The constant
maintenance effectiveness is biased because the maintenance effectiveness is dependent on
the pre-maintenance condition. Therefore, nonlinear dynamic models that involve the
interactions between independent variables to estimate maintenance effectiveness in
conjunction with the pre-maintenance condition are necessary. If the dependence of
maintenance on facility condition is estimated, the current facility condition can be predicted
by historical facility conditions and in response to maintenance as a function of historical
conditions. In such a model specification, facility condition is the dependent variable and
maintenance is an independent variable. Note particularly that infrastructure performance
models are particularly useful with maintenance as an independent variable. Such models
can be used to evaluate various M&R strategies to support maintenance optimization, which
is one of the contributions of this research. Motivated by this background, this paper describes
a procedure for estimating nonlinear dynamic performance models that capture interactions
between variables using panel data.
REVIEW OF PARAMETER ESTIMATION WITH THE KALMAN
FILTER
Two popular parameter estimation methods for nonlinear state-space models are joint
estimation and dual estimation. The advantage is that the estimation can be conducted
on-line and the estimates are updated when new data are observed. However, the
disadvantage is that the error covariances are difficult, if not impossible, to estimate as
unknown parameters. As a result, the research using joint or dual estimation mentioned
above makes various assumptions for the error covariances so that they can be removed the
estimation process.
If parameters in the covariance matrices are also unknown and must be estimated, an
external optimization routine that maximizes the likelihood function (e.g., Chu and
Durango-Cohen (2008a) for linear models and Chow et al. (2008) for nonlinear models) can
be used in addition to a nonlinear Kalman filter. This approach is particularly useful when all
data are readily available for the estimation, which is often the case in transportation
Estimation of Condition-Dependent Maintenance Effectiveness for Transportation
Infrastructure Management Using Extended Kalman Filter
CHU, Chih-Yuan
12th WCTR, July 11-15, 2010–Lisbon, Portugal
4
13. t tg h : contain the parameters that describe the autoregression of state vectors and
the effect of explanatory variables on the state vector, respectively, where
(1) ( )[ ]dt t tg g g   and (1) ( )[ ]rt t th h h   . The dimensions of the two vectors are
d and r , respectively.
14. t : dk -dimensional vector of parameters describing the relationship between
measurements and condition, where (1) ( )[ ]dkt t t   .
15. t t : represent random error terms assumed be normally distributed with finite
second moments, where (1) ( )[ ]dt t t     and (1) ( )[ ]kt t t     . The error
terms have dimensions 1d and 1k .
t and t are their covariance matrices
with dimensions d d and k k , respectively. They satisfy E( ) 0t  ,
Var( )
tt   , E( ) 0t  , Var( ) tt   , and E( ) 0t t  .
State-space Model Using Panel Data
To cover the case of multiple facilities, a new subscript i is added to identify the facility,
where 1i N  , resulting in i tX , i tA, and i tZ . Many assumptions about heterogeneity
among facilities are possible for multiple-facility performance models (Chu and
Durango-Cohen, 2008a). The assumption used in this paper is that data from the facilities are
instances of the same stochastic process, i.e., different surveys of the same stochastic
process. Therefore, the specification has a single set of parameters shared by all facilities.
Equations (3) and (4) are a nonlinear state-space model of the dynamics of a panel of N
facilities. The functions F and H are collections of the functions for individual facilities. The
vectors above are collected in   t t t tX Z A and t . That is, 1 …t N tX X     tX ,
1 …t N tZ Z     tZ , 1 …t N tA A
 
    tA , [ ]t t   t  , and [ ]t t  t  .
1 1 1 1 1( )t tg h        t t t tX F X A (3)
( )t  t t tZ H X (4)
EMPIRICAL STUDY
This section describes the data source for the empirical study and the estimation results of the
nonlinear dynamic performance model.
Data Source
The empirical study used the AASHO Road Test dataset (Highway Research Board, 1962).
The models described in the previous section require the specification of variables
Estimation of Condition-Dependent Maintenance Effectiveness for Transportation
Infrastructure Management Using Extended Kalman Filter
CHU, Chih-Yuan
12th WCTR, July 11-15, 2010–Lisbon, Portugal
6
Estimation Results and Discussion
Various model specifications were tested and the preferred model is listed in Eqs. (5) and (6)
as an example. All parameters have intuitive signs; for example, (1) 0 991 1g   indicates
that condition deteriorates over time. Note that the inspection interval is relatively small and
the deterioration between two inspections is minimal, which explains why the parameter
values for (1)g are very close to 1.
Two nonlinear phenomena were considered in the system equation for this example. The
first is the effect of structural design on traffic impact ( SN TRF ). With a nonlinear model,
structural design can have a nonlinear relationship with traffic impact and thus also have an
indirect effect on the pavement condition. In other words, the impact of a unit of traffic
depends on the structural design, which is a more reasonable and relaxed assumption. Figure
1 shows the relationship between the structural number and the corresponding traffic impact.
As expected, pavement with high SN (i.e., stronger) experiences small traffic impact and
vice versa. This specification is more meaningful than including SN as an additive variable.
A negative parameter for TRF in Eq. (5) indicates that the traffic causes damage to the
pavement ( 0 035 0 004 0iSN   due to the range of SN ).
The second nonlinearity considered in the model specification was the
condition-dependent maintenance effectiveness ( x OVR ). As explained in Section 1,
maintenance effectiveness depends on the pavement condition and can be formulated as a
function of historical pavement condition to predict the current condition. As previously
mentioned, the Highway Research Board (1962) observed that the condition of newly
constructed pavements was PSI=4.2 on average. Therefore, improving the condition to a PSI
greater than 4.2 is unreasonable. In addition, it was reported that the average PSI value
immediately after overlay application was only 3.4 due to cold weather and short pavement
sections. To make sure the predictions to be consistent with the actual observations,
constraints based on the physical conditions of the test would be necessary to improve the
data fit and obtain more reasonable models. The first constraint comes from the observation
that the overlay will bring the pavement condition to PSI=3.4. Because overlays were applied
to pavement in poor condition, the extreme situation where the maintenance effectiveness for
the worst possible pavement (PSI=0) would be 3.4 is used to represent these pavements.
However, overlays were never applied to pavement with PSI2.2 in the test, and the
effectiveness of maintenance on other pavement conditions is unknown. Therefore, a second
constraint must be assumed for this range of conditions. Because of the difficulty in applying
overlay reported by the Highway Research Board (1962), the assumption is that the condition
after overlay cannot exceed PSI=3.4 and that applying overlay on very new pavement will
worsen its condition (i.e., negative effectiveness). In summary, the specifications satisfy that
the effectiveness is 3.4 for 1i tx=0 (Constraint 1) and the effectiveness is 0 for 1 3 4i tx
(Constraint 2). Figure 2 shows the relationship between the current condition and the
maintenance effectiveness for the two constraints. Constraint 1 forces all specifications to
pass the location of the circle, and Constraint 2 requires the functions to pass the location of
the square. Clearly, the different specifications are almost identical after imposing the two
constraints and, more important, they all produce very reasonable results. The results also
Estimation of Condition-Dependent Maintenance Effectiveness for Transportation
Infrastructure Management Using Extended Kalman Filter
CHU, Chih-Yuan
12th WCTR, July 11-15, 2010–Lisbon, Portugal
8
CONCLUSION AND FUTURE RESEARCH
A methodology for estimating nonlinear dynamic performance models for transportation
infrastructure management has been proposed. The dynamic models combine panel data,
performance prediction, maintenance effectiveness, and variable interactions, all of which
have not been previously studied. As a result, a state-of-the-art life-cycle cost optimization
framework—adaptive control—can be supported with models estimated using empirical
maintenance data.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was supported by the National Science Council of Taiwan through research grant
NSC 97-2218-E-008-013.
REFERENCES
Ben-Akiva, M. and Ramaswamy, R. (1993). An approach for predicting latent infrastructure
facility deterioration. Transportation Science, 27(2), 174–193.
Chow, S.-M., Ferrer, E., and Nesselroade, J. R. (2008). An unscented kalman filter approach
to the estimation of nonlinear dynamical systems models. Multivariate Behavioral
Research, 42(2), 283–321.
Chu, C.-Y. and Durango-Cohen, P. L. (2007). Estimation of infrastructure performance
models using state-space specifications of time series models. Transportation
Research Part C, 15(1), 17–32.
Chu, C.-Y. and Durango-Cohen, P. L. (2008a). Estimation of dynamic performance models for
transportation infrastructure using panel data. Transportation Research Part B, 42(1),
57–81.
Chu, C.-Y. and Durango-Cohen, P. L. (2008b). Incorporating maintenance effectiveness in
the estimation of dynamic infrastructure performance models. Computer-Aided Civil
and Infrastructure Engineering, 23(3), 174–188.
Durango-Cohen, P. L. (2007). A time series analysis framework for transportation
infrastructure management. Transportation Research Part B, 41(5), 493–505.
Durbin, J. and Koopman, S. J. (2001). Time Series Analysis by State Space Methods, Oxford
University Press Inc., New York, NY, USA.
Highway Research Board (1962). The AASHO Road Test, Special Reports No. 61A-E,
National Academy of Science, National Research Council, Washington, DC, USA.
Jido, M., Otazawa, T., and Kobayashi, K. (2008). Optimal repair and inspection rules under
uncertainty. Journal of Infrastructure Systems, 14(2), 150–158.
Lytton, R. L. (1987). Concepts of pavement performance prediction and modelling. Second
North American Conference on Managing Pavements Proceedings, Vol. 2, 2.3–2.19.
Madanat, S. and Ben-Akiva, M. (1994). Optimal inspection and repair policies for
infrastructure facilities. Transportation Science, 28(1), 55–62.
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
參加國外研討會而成為 ASCE Journal of Infrastructure Systems (SCI 期刊)
之研討會特刊(Special Issue for 2010 WCTR)客座編輯(guest editor)之一，
負責挑選題材適合之論文以及邀稿審查等相關事宜，此項工作為參加國外研討
會發表論文之額外收穫，實為一寶貴之專業經歷。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
