Kinematic wave computation using an efficient
implicit method
Ming-Hseng Tseng
ABSTRACT
Ming-Hseng Tseng
School of Applied Information Sciences,
Chung Shan Medical University,
No. 110, Sec. 1, Jian-Koa N. Road,
402 Taichung,
Taiwan
Tel.: +886 4 2473 0022 17195
Fax: +886 4 2473 0022 17190
E-mail: mht@csmu.edu.tw
The kinematic wave theorem is the simplest and widely employed distributed routing method
used in practical applications for the computation of flood wave propagation in overland and
open-channel flows with steep topography. In this paper, an efficient finite-difference implicit
MacCormack scheme is developed for the simulation of one-dimensional kinematic wave flows.
Simulated results are compared with two analytical solutions and one experimental measurement
to assess the performance of an explicit MacCormack scheme, implicit nonlinear kinematic wave
scheme and implicit MacCormack scheme. The computed results show that the proposed implicit
MacCormack scheme is simple, accurate, highly stable and greatly efficient in solving kinematic
wave problems.
Key words | channel flow, explicit MacCormack scheme, implicit MacCormack scheme,
implicit nonlinear kinematic wave scheme, kinematic wave, overland flow
INTRODUCTION
The flow of water through the soil and stream channels
of a watershed is a distributed process because the flow
rate, velocity and depth vary in the space throughout the
watershed. Estimates of the flow rate or water level at
important locations in the channel system can be obtained
using a distributed flow routing model (Chou et al. 1988).
Distributed flow routing models can be used to describe the
transformation of storm rainfall into runoff over a water-
shed. This, in turn, can produce a flow hydrograph for
the watershed outlet. This hydrograph becomes the input at
the upstream end of a river or pipe system routed to the
downstream end. For many practical purposes, the spatial
variation in velocity across the channel with respect to
depth can be ignored. This way, the variation of the flow
process can be isolated only in the main direction of the
flow along the channel.
Flood wave propagation in overland and channel flows
may be described by complete equations of motion for
unsteady nonuniform flow, known as dynamic wave
equations. This was first proposed by Barre de Saint-Venant
in 1871. Due to the fact that dynamic wave equations
involve a high degree of complexity in computation, the
Saint-Venant equations have been simplified. Several
simplified forms are being used to efficiently implement
the approximate wave models. Under a different set of
simplifying assumptions, all distributed flow routing models
can be classified into the kinematic wave, the diffusion
wave, the quasi-steady dynamic wave and the full dynamic
wave models. The simplest distributed model is the
kinematic wave model, which neglects local acceleration,
convective acceleration and pressure terms in the momen-
tum equation; that is, it assumes that the friction and gravity
forces balance each other. In cases where the bed slope is
dominant in the momentum equation, most flood waves
behave as kinematic waves. Previous studies (Lighthill &
Whitham 1955; Henderson 1966) have proven that the
velocity of the main part of a natural flood wave
approximates that of a kinematic wave in steep rivers
doi: 10.2166/hydro.2010.068
329 Q IWA Publishing 2010 Journal of Hydroinformatics | 12.3 | 2010
For example, the Manning equation written with So ¼ Sf
and R ¼ A/P is
A ¼ nP
2=3
cIS
1=2
o
 !3=5
Q3=5 ð5Þ
where n denotes the Manning roughness coefficient and
P represents the wetted perimeter where cI is 1 for SI units
and 1.49 for British units.
By differentiating Equation (5) and substituting it into
Equation (3), the result will be
›Q
›x
þ abQb21 ›Q
›t
¼ ql ð6Þ
The characteristic equations for a kinematic wave can
be derived from Equation (6) as
dQ
dx
¼ ql ð7Þ
ck ¼ dxdt ¼
1
abQb21
¼ dQ
dA
ð8Þ
where ck is the kinematic wave celerity. This implies that an
observer moving at a velocity of ck with the flow would see
the flow rate increasing at a rate of ql.
NUMERICAL APPROACHES
The computational domain is discretized as xi ¼ iDx and
t j ¼ jDt, where Dx is the size of a uniform mesh and Dt is the
time increment. The performances of the three finite-
difference schemes are investigated in this study. These
schemes include the widely used INKW scheme, the
traditional EMAC scheme and the proposed IMAC scheme.
Nonlinear implicit scheme
The implicit nonlinear finite-difference formulation of
kinematic wave Equations (Li et al. 1975), denoted as the
INKW scheme, can be expressed as
f Qjþ1iþ1
 
¼ DtDxQjþ1iþ1 þ a Qjþ1iþ1
 b
2C
C ¼ DtDxQjþ1i þ a Qjiþ1
 bþ0:5Dt q jþ1liþ1 þ qjliþ1
 
8>><
>>: ð9Þ
where fðQjþ1iþ1Þ represents a nonlinear function of the
unknown flow rate Qjþ1iþ1. Equation (9) is solved by the
Newton–Raphson iteration method for Q jþ1iþ1 as
Qjþ1iþ1
 
kþ1 ¼ Q
jþ1
iþ1
 
k
2
f Q jþ1iþ1
 
f0 Qjþ1iþ1
  ð10Þ
The convergence criterion for the iteration process is
f Q jþ1iþ1
 
kþ1

 # 1 ð11Þ
where f0ðQjþ1iþ1Þ represents the first derivative of Qjþ1iþ1
and 1 is an error criterion.
Explicit–implicit MacCormack schemes
Based on a predictor–corrector–updating three-step
procedure (MacCormack 1969, 1985; Tseng & Wang 2004),
the first step follows the algorithm as
DApi ¼ 2
Dt
Dx
ðQiþ1 2QiÞ þ qliDt ð12Þ
1þ l Dt
Dx
 
dApi ¼ DApi þ l
Dt
Dx
dApiþ1 ð13Þ
Api ðtþ DtÞ ¼ AiðtÞ þ dApi ð14Þ
The correct step follows the algorithm as
DAci ¼ 2
Dt
Dx
ðQi 2Qi21Þp þ qpliDt ð15Þ
1þ l Dt
Dx
 
dAci ¼ DAci þ l
Dt
Dx
dAci21 ð16Þ
Aci ðtþ DtÞ ¼ AiðtÞ þ dAci ð17Þ
where the subscript p and c stand for the predictor and the
corrector steps, respectively. The parameter l is chosen to
ensure unconditional linear stability. This requires
l ¼ max 0; ckj j2 Dx
Dt
 
ð18Þ
The third step updates the algorithm with the unknown
variables of A and Q as follows:
Aiðtþ DtÞ ¼ 1
2
ðApi þAci Þ ð19Þ
331 M.-H. Tseng | Kinematic wave computation using an efficient implicit method Journal of Hydroinformatics | 12.3 | 2010
increments. A quantitative comparison of the simulated
results using the IMAC scheme can be found in Table 1. The
analytical solution for the kinematic wave flow with
constant rainfall is obtained by Eagleson’s solution (1970).
The results indicate that the computational error ðLm2 Þ
decreases as the grid size (Dx) or the time increment (Dt)
decreases. On the other hand, the computational time
increases as the grid size or the time increment decreases.
These results clearly show that the proposed IMAC scheme
is essentially conservative. This comparison also demon-
strates that the proposed IMAC scheme can acquire
remarkable accuracy with Dx ¼ 1m and Dt % 1 s, where
the Lm2 norms of depth and discharge are both less than
5 £ 1023%. The time step of 0.5 s leads to a Courant
number approximately between 0.9 and 0.5.
Figure 1 compares the simulation results of the water
depth, as well as the flow rate, with the analytical solution
for the EMAC, IMAC and INKW schemes, respectively.
A uniform mesh distribution with 500 cells and a time
increment of 0.5 s was used in the computation. As can be
seen, the agreement between the analytical solution and the
numerical solution is remarkable for both the water depth
and the flow rate, except for the INKW scheme. Since the
INKW scheme is only a first-order method, significant
numerical damping leads to smearing of the peak depth and
peak discharge, as shown in the inset graphs. The results of
the simulation also indicate that the IMAC and EMAC
schemes are slightly better than those of the INKW scheme.
Figure 2 demonstrates the simulation result of the water
depth using the IMAC scheme with Dt ¼ 1 s, 10 s, and 100 s,
respectively. It can be observed that the simulated hydro-
graph closely follows the analytical solution, even in the
case of a very large time step employed.
As indicated in Table 2, the simulated results of the
IMAC and EMAC schemes for the Dx ¼ 1m and Dt ¼ 0.5 s
case are identical, except in the aspect of time consumption
where the IMAC scheme showed some increase. However,
for the cases where Dt $ 1 s, the traditional EMAC scheme
failed to compute the overland flow. In contrast, the
proposed IMAC scheme was able to simulate very well,
even in the case where Dt ¼ 100 s. All the relative errors for
the Dt (s) values varying from 0.5 to 100 are less than 0.5%,
Figure 1 | Solution of overland flow using the EMAC, IMAC and INKW schemes
(Dt ¼ 0.5 s). Figure 2 | Simulation hydrograph of depth for overland flow.
333 M.-H. Tseng | Kinematic wave computation using an efficient implicit method Journal of Hydroinformatics | 12.3 | 2010
with Dx ¼ 30 ft and Dt ¼ 2 s is given in Figure 3. The
simulation result indicates that the total areas under
the hydrographs are almost identical. In other words, the
proposed scheme can conserve the total water mass when
the flood wave passes through the channel reach. The
simulation results evidently reveal that the kinematic wave
does not subside or disperse, but changes its shape because
its velocity depends upon the depth (Chou et al. 1988).
Table1 also shows thebehavior of the IMACschemeover
a range of grid sizes and time increments for the channel flow
case. The analytical solution for kinematicwave channel flow
can be obtained by simultaneously solving the characteristic
Equations (7) and (8). These results indicate that the
computational error ðLm2 Þ decreases as the grid size (Dx) or
the time increment (Dt) decreases. On the other hand, the
computational time increases as the grid size or the time step
decreases. These results clearly verify that the proposed
IMAC scheme is conservative. This comparison also evi-
dently demonstrates that the proposed IMAC scheme can
acquire remarkable accuracy with Dx ¼ 30m and Dt % 2 s,
where both theLm2 normsof depth anddischarge are less than
Figure 3 | Inflow and outflow hydrographs using the IMAC scheme (Dt ¼ 2 s).
Figure 5 | Simulation hydrograph of depth for channel flow.
Figure 4 | Solution of channel flow using the EMAC, IMAC and INKW schemes (Dt ¼ 1 s).
335 M.-H. Tseng | Kinematic wave computation using an efficient implicit method Journal of Hydroinformatics | 12.3 | 2010
schemes. However, the accuracy is almost a magnitude
lower than that in the IMAC scheme. Since the INKW
scheme only has first-order accuracy, the computation
accuracy is significantly less than that of the second-order
scheme (IMAC).
Overland flow over a three-plane cascade surface
The above test cases only compared the simulation with
analytical solutions and results of other schemes. To illustrate
that the proposed model is capable of describing real
rainfall–runoff scenarios, the model prediction is compared
with the laboratory experiments of Iwagaki (1955). The
experiments were conducted to simulate rainfall–runoff
processes over a three-plane cascade surface. A series of
artificial rainfall was applied on a smooth aluminum
laboratory flume surface. The flume is 24m in length
and is divided into three planes with constant slopes of
0.020, 0.015 and 0.010, respectively, from upstream to
downstream. The constant rainfall intensities of 389, 230
and 288 cm/h were applied to the upper, middle and
lower plane, respectively, for durations of 10 s, 20 s and
30 s in three experiments.
The flow domain is discretized into 97 grids with a
uniform grid spacing Dx ¼ 0.25m and the Courant number
CFL ¼ 5.0. Manning coefficients of 0.085, 0.011 and 0.013
were employed for the three test simulations, respectively.
The computed outflow hydrographs compared with experi-
mental data for the three cases are shown in Figures 6–8.
The agreement between the prediction and the experimental
results is satisfactory. This result compares favorably with
those of Borah et al. (1980) with a kinematic shock-fitting
model,Zhang&Cundy (1989)with the explicitMacCormack
finite-difference scheme and Tisdale et al. (1998) with the
upwind finite element method. Also, it is shown that
the proposed IMAC scheme is capable of simulating
the kinematic shock waves which were generated by the
changes in bed slopes for the cases of short rainfall duration.
CONCLUSIONS
A simple, accurate and efficient kinematic wave numerical
model is developed to simulate the one-dimensional
overland and open-channel flows by using a family
Figure 6 | Discharge hydrograph for flow over three-plane cascade with rainfall
duration of 10 s.
Figure 7 | Discharge hydrograph for flow over three-plane cascade with rainfall
duration of 20 s.
Figure 8 | Discharge hydrograph for flow over three-plane cascade with rainfall
duration of 30 s.
337 M.-H. Tseng | Kinematic wave computation using an efficient implicit method Journal of Hydroinformatics | 12.3 | 2010
 1 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：99年 09月 28日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics (ICMLC)為「 IEEE- 
Machine Learning and Cybernetics」領域的重要研討會，每年舉辦一次，會議目的是提供一個國際
性的傳播論壇，討論關於機器學習和控制論最新相關的革新、理論和應用的訊息。也將促進合作和共
同努力，使會議的每一個參加者均能共同推動理論與實踐，以確定機器學習及控制論的主要趨勢。自
2002年開辦至今ICMLC會議都非常成功，今年投稿論文審稿機制更是嚴格，只要有違反學術倫理如抄
襲或段落雷同都會被ICMLC的論文比對系統追出來。今年會議在青島海爾洲際飯店舉行，會議日程包
括 plenary talks，tutorials，PhD colloquia，panel discussion，oral presentation and poster，是一次非常高
標準的國際會議。 
本次的會議為期共四天 (2010/07/11~14)，會議的第一天為兩場tutorials的訓練課程：”How to 
disseminate your research results: essentials of effective publishing” and “Multiple Classifier Systems”。第二
天上午是兩場邀約演講，而後從下午開始則是各個session的論文發表行程，所有的作者一一上台報告
今年最新發表的論文；而在其中間則是會有PhD colloquia panel talks，best paper award and best student 
conference paper等議程，讓世界各國的學者都可以參與主題的討論，進行學術上的交流。 
本人被安排在 12 日下午的 session: intelligent systems IV，發表論文題目為「A study on cluster 
validity using intelligent evolutionary k-MEANS approach」。 
二、與會心得 
計畫編號 NSC 98 － 2211 － E － 040 － 011 
計畫名稱 應用空間資訊技術與混合數值算則於 DEM-格網式洪流演算模式之研發(1) 
出國人員
姓名 
曾明性 
服務機構
及職稱 
中山醫學大學應資系教授 
會議時間 
99年 7月 11日至
99 年 7月 14 日 
會議地點 青島, 山東, 中國 
會議名稱 2010 International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics 
發表論文
題目 
A study on cluster validity using intelligent evolutionary K-MEANS 
approach 
 3 
約佔有8成，台灣學者也不少，足見台灣研究能力與參與國際學術的動力是相當不錯的。出席者不少為
教授帶領研究生一同出席，由研究生報告居多；但本人因國科會補助經費有限，無法帶研究生一同前
往實為美中不足。 
總之，這次的會議，不僅見到一些久仰大名的大師與學者，彼此交換近來的經驗與資訊，對於未
來研究增長許多見聞；同時，與許多素未謀面的學術同好互相切磋觀摩而結良友，大家對於未來國際
合作多持正面樂觀的態度，對於提升本校(系)以及台灣的學術地位均有相當大的助益。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
本人趁著這次出國到大陸開會的機會，自費回程順道轉機前往北京，親身體會大陸一流學府：北
京大學與清華大學的不同風貌。雖然適逢暑假期間，但校園都還是人潮擁擠，北京大學校舍均屬中西
合壁形式構築，而清華大學則一致呈現西方建築風。 
 
 
 
 
 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本研究屬第一年計畫，全期三年研究主軸在應用空間資訊技術與混合&amp；
#63849；值算則進行集水區分佈型洪水演算模式之開發，本年度著重在運動波
演算模式及擴散波演算模式之開發。目前已發表一篇論文在 Journal of 
Hydroinformatics, 採用隱式 MacCormack 算則進行運動波演算模式的開發與
驗證。在規劃水文、水資源問題上常面&amp；#63990；規劃地點無適當&amp；
#63870；測資&amp；#63934；可供分析，因此發展基於水力演算之物理分佈型
洪流演算模式，對於土地利用發生變化或無水文紀錄地區之降雨逕流推估與積
水深度計算，其適用性有相當大的貢獻。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
