2 
non-contacting pneumatic vacuum pad using 
proportional solenoid and CFD-technique is 
proposed and developed. The proportional 
solenoid provides continuously variable 
magnetic force output and enables the 
automatic adjustment of the suction force 
output of the vacuum pad. The CFD is the 
abbreviation of Computational Fluid 
Dynamics, which is a powerful tool to 
provide an effective insight into the flow 
field numerically [4]. Instead of vacuum 
pump, the vacuum generating principle of the 
developed vacuum pad is based on the 
Bernoulli’s equation. Typical application 
fields of pneumatic vacuum pad include the 
automatic conveyer system, automatic 
assembly line and semiconductor or wafer 
factory, etc. Traditional vacuum pads 
generally utilize nozzles to produce the effect 
of vacuum [5, 6]. In this paper, however, a 
new idea to generate the effect of vacuum is 
proposed by designing a structure similar to 
that of an aerostatic bearing [4]. In details, a 
thin film of air between the vacuum pad and 
the work-piece will be established and 
consequently the suction force is generated 
and applied to the work-piece. Therefore, 
according to Bernoulli’s equation, the air 
pressure near the center line of the vacuum 
pad decreases because of the increased 
velocity of the escape airflow. Consequently, 
the effect of vacuum is generated. 
 
The commercial CFD-RC software is utilized 
to simulate the air flow field and to design 
the most suitable geometrical dimension 
inside the vacuum pad. After some tedious 
trial-and-errors, a new proportional 
non-contacting pneumatic vacuum pad is 
developed and a corresponding prototype is 
also produced. To test the static performance 
of the new vacuum pad, a test bench is 
constructed. Experimental results prove that 
the vacuum pressure (negative gauge 
pressure) and hence the suction force output 
of the vacuum pad is nearly proportional to 
the input excitation current to the 
proportional solenoid. In the following, the 
principles of the proportional solenoid as 
well as the design of the vacuum pad using 
CFD-simulation will be illustrated. 
三、研究報告應含的內容 
VACUUM PAD DESIGN USING 
PROPORTIONAL SOLENOID AND 
CFD-SIMULATION 
Figure 1 shows the scheme of the developed 
vacuum pad. The air is guided to flow into 
the vacuum pad at an eccentric inlet A. After 
passing through the restrictor C, the air flows 
out of the thin film between the vacuum pad 
and the work-piece denoted by B. The 
opening area of the restrictor is automatically 
controlled by the proportional solenoid. The 
proportional solenoid (Magnet-Schultz, 
GRF035) is a popular electro-mechanical 
transducer used in the design of fluid-power 
proportional valves [7, 8]. It has a quite 
linear force/stroke relation as shown in Fig. 2, 
which is the key requirement for the design 
of the proportional vacuum pad. The 
restrictor poppet, which is subjected to a 
constant force in the linear working range, 
reaches a definite position in the vacuum pad 
according to Hook’s law. This definite 
position of the poppet signifies a definite 
opening area of the restrictor. Furthermore, it 
is also observed that the relation between the 
output force and the input current is quite 
linear as shown in Figure 2. Consequently, 
the opening area of the restrictor is 
continuously controllable and is proportional 
to the input excitation current. This is exactly 
the basic function of the proportional vacuum 
pad. Some technical data about the utilized 
proportional solenoid are given in Table 1. 
 
Figure 1：Scheme of the developed 
proportional non-contacting vacuum pad 
 
4 
distribution (cone-shaped space angle = o45 ) 
 
 
 
Figure 5：Simulation result of the pressure 
distribution (cone-shaped space angle = o60 ) 
 
 
 
 Figure 6：Three different shapes for the 
restrictor poppet 
 
Figure 7：Simulation result of the pressure 
distribution for shape a 
 
 
Figure 8：Simulation result of the pressure 
distribution for shape b 
 
Figure 9：Simulation result of the pressure 
distribution for shape c 
 
 
Figure 10： Prototype of the developed 
proportional vacuum pad 
 
DESIGN OF TEST DEVICE 
To test the static performances of the 
developed pneumatic vacuum pad, a test 
device is constructed to measure the vacuum 
pressure and the thickness of the air gap 
between the vacuum pad and the work-piece. 
Figure 11 shows the scheme for measuring 
the vacuum pressure. In details, a vacuum 
pressure sensor (SMC, ZSE30/ISE30) is 
inserted into the work-piece, so that the 
vacuum pressure at the center of the vacuum 
pad can be measured. 
6 
 
Figure 12： Simulation and experimental 
relation between the absolute 
value of vacuum pressure and 
the input excitation current 
 
 
Figure 13：Time response of air gap thickness 
 
 
Figure14 ： An experimental example 
showing the developed vacuum 
pad with a sucked CD-disk 
 
CONCLUSION 
In this paper, a new proportional 
non-contacting pneumatic vacuum pad was 
successfully developed. After experimental 
tests, it is proved that the developed vacuum 
pad can be integrated into the automated 
manufacturing system and serves as the 
gripping component for conveyer system, etc. 
In addition, three conclusions may be drawn 
from this research. 
 
1. The most important feature of the 
developed vacuum pad is the introduction 
of the proportional solenoid, which can be 
used to control automatically the airflow 
and to produce the adequate suction force 
output. It is also observable that the 
absolute value of the vacuum pressure is 
nearly proportional to the input excitation 
current to the proportional solenoid. 
 
2. The CFD-technique is utilized to 
determine the most suitable geometrical 
dimension of the vacuum pad such that 
significant vacuum effect can be 
achieved. 
 
During the process of suction force output, it 
is observed that the work-piece contacts the 
vacuum pad at the beginning. After this 
impact, the thickness of the air gap settles 
and reaches the steady-state value. However, 
such an impact between the vacuum pad and 
work-piece is not allowed in some precision 
applications, such as the silicon wafer 
industry. In the future, therefore, the 
advanced closed-loop air gap control system 
should be introduced to avoid the direct 
contact between the vacuum pad and the 
work-piece. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
The financial support of the National Science 
Council of ROC under grant number 
NSC-96-2221-E-224-064 is greatly 
appreciated. 
四、參考文獻 
[1]  N. N., 2003, Adjustable Vacuum Valve, 
Pump of the world, Volume 2003, Issue 
446, Elsevier Science. 
[2]  Holbrook, A. E. K., 1997, “Design of  
rotary vacuum pumps for an automated 
manufacturing system,” IEE Colloquium 
on Successful Cases of Integrated Product 
Design with Manufacturing Technology 
(Digest No: 1997/168), Pages: 6/1 - 6/4. 
[3]  Shen, S., Kishiyama, K., Parker, J.M. 
  
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※
※                        ※ 
※                        ※ 
※                        ※ 
※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※ 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫  □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E－224－064 
執行期間：96 年 08 月 01 日至 97 年 07 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：任志強 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：呂嘉華、楊翼豪 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
 
執行單位：國立雲林科技大學 機械工程系 
 
 
 
 
中 華 民 國 97 年 07 月 24 日 
附件：封面格式 
先進非接觸式氣壓真空吸盤研發(I) 
4.第三天議程(3/14)：本日計有 34 篇論文口頭發表，共分為四個 Sessions 及六項主題。比
較值得一提的是：本日議程多了 Seals 及 Hydrostatic Transmission 二項新的會議主題。
三、與會心得：
流體傳動（一般又稱之為：液氣壓控制）相關研究領域在國內並非顯學，但這項技術
卻廣泛地應用在各式工作母機，射出成型機以及行走機械上，而這些產品每年也為國
家創造不少外匯收入。相對的，在國外先進國家中，包含美國、德國、芬蘭、瑞典、
日本、英國、意大利等甚至是對岸的中國大陸，均有相當強的研究團隊持續從事著流
體傳動技術的研發，他們可能是大學中一個獨立的研究所或是在大學中成立的一個技
術研發中心。反觀國內，從事流體動傳技術研發的學者專家本來就不多，而且又分散
在各個大學或研究機構，故整合起來的力量是不夠強的。以流體傳動相關的國際研討
會來看，上述先進國家幾乎每二至四年均會舉辦一次，就連中國大陸在這方面的發展
也不容忽視，他們每二年均會在杭州、武漢或哈爾濱等地舉辦國際流體傳動國際研討
會。因此，對本人而言，參與這次會議之後所獲得的最大心得是：未來在國內必須推
動並加強跨校之整合研究，以凝聚分散在各方的研究潛力。
四、攜回資料：
此次會議本人計攜回以下三份資料：
1. 大會論文發表日程紙本折頁（Pocket Guide）一份。
2. 大會論文集光碟一份，共收錄了 110 篇論文。
3. 大會手冊（Exposition Directory）一份，包含所有參與廠商及個人之名錄及聯絡方式。
五、發表論文：
constant force in the linear working range, reaches a
definite position in the vacuum pad according to Hook’s 
law. This definite position of the poppet signifies a
definite opening area of the restrictor. Furthermore, it is
also observed that the relation between the output force
and the input current is quite linear as shown in Figure 2.
Consequently, the opening area of the restrictor is
continuously controllable and is proportional to the input
excitation current. This is exactly the basic function of the
proportional vacuum pad. Some technical data about the
utilized proportional solenoid are given in Table 1.
Figure 1-Scheme of the developed proportional
non-contacting vacuum pad
Figure 2-The linear force/stroke relation of the
proportional solenoid
Table 1-Some technical data of the chosen proportional
solenoid
There are two most important design parameters
regarding the geometrical dimension inside the vacuum
pad. One is the angle of the cone-shaped space and the
other is the shape of the restrictor poppet. Firstly, three
different angles (30o, 45o and 60o) for the cone-shaped
space inside the vacuum pad are chosen for
CFD-simulations. The initial and boundary conditions for
the CFD-simulation are summarized as follows.
1. The input velocity of the airflow is set to be 12 m/s
for input pressure of 2 bar. For different input
pressure, however, different setting of input velocity
is necessary.
2. The airflow is compressible.
3. The air density is assumed to be 1.189 Kg / m3 room
temperature.
4. The dynamic viscosity of the air is set to be 1.789 ×
10-5 Ns/m2 at room temperature.
5. The room temperature is set to be 20 C or
293 K .
6. The reference acoustic velocity of air is assumed to
be 340 m/s.
7. The boundaries of the flow field are considered as
the wall, which means that no airflow across the
boundaries is allowed.
8. No heat transfer and chemical reaction exists in the
flow field.
9. The outlet conditions are set to be atmospheric
pressure and room temperature.
Figures 3-5 show the corresponding simulation results of
pressure distribution for three different cone-angles
respectively. It is observed that Figure 5 possesses the
lowest average pressure near the center line of the
vacuum pad. Among three different angles, therefore, it
is clear that the most suitable cone-shape space angle is
60o. On the other hand, three different shapes for the
restrictor are also chosen for CFD-simulations as shown
in Figure 6. After comparing the CFD-simulation results
shown in Figures 7-9, it is observed that the lowest
average pressure near the center line of the vacuum pad
occurs in Figure 9. Thus, the cone-shaped restrictor of
Figure 5(c) is chosen for the design. Finally, the picture
of the developed prototype equipped with a gap sensor
is shown in Figure 10.
Figure 3-Simulation result of the pressure distribution
(cone-shaped space angle = 30o)
DESIGN OF TEST DEVICE
To test the static performances of the developed
pneumatic vacuum pad, a test device is constructed to
measure the vacuum pressure and the thickness of the
air gap between the vacuum pad and the work-piece.
Figure 11 shows the scheme for measuring the vacuum
pressure. In details, a vacuum pressure sensor (SMC,
ZSE30/ISE30) is inserted into the work-piece, so that the
vacuum pressure at the center of the vacuum pad can be
measured.
Figure 11-Scheme of test device for measuring vacuum
pressure
SIMULATION, EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS AND
DISCUSSION
In this section, both simulation and experimental results
concerning the developed vacuum pad are summarized and
discussed. Firstly, Table 2 shows different values of the
average vacuum pressure derived by simulation and
experiment respectively. It is also noticeable that the vacuum
pressure is represented by the gauge pressure, which is
actually a negative value. The opening area of the restrictor is
adjusted by sending different input excitation current to the
proportional solenoid and the inlet pressure to the vacuum pad
is varied from 2 bar to 4 bar by adjusting the pressure
reducing valve. The initial input air velocity for the
CFD-simulation is set to be 17 m/s for the input pressure of 3
bar, and 22 m/s for the input pressure of 4 bar. After
calculations, the maximal deviation between simulation and
experimental result is found to be 22 %. For the input current
below 0.03 A, no suction force output is available because of
the dead-zone arising from the seal’s friction. If the input
current is gradually increased from 0.03 A to 0.09 A, meaning
that the opening area of the restrictor increases, then the
absolute value of gauge pressure also increases because of the
high velocity of jet flow through the restrictor poppet.
However, if the input current is too large, for example 0.13 A,
meaning that the metering orifice is fully open and the effect
of restriction exists no longer, the absolute value of gauge
pressure will cease to increase. Moreover, larger opening area
also means higher air consumption which is not acceptable in
this study. Therefore, the best recommended input current for
the developed vacuum is in the range from 0.03A to 0.09A.
Figure 12 shows that the absolute value of the vacuum
pressure is nearly proportional to the input excitation current
to the proportional solenoid.
It is worth mentioning that the deviations between
experimental and simulation results are inevitable. One most
important reason is that all the initial and boundary conditions
for CFD simulation are based on ideal assumptions. In the real
flow field, however, many time-varying parameters as well as
the complicated turbulent flow may exist, which are quite
difficult to be modeled and numerically determined. In
addition, the value of the restrictor opening area for
simulation is determined directly by Hook’s law. The friction
force arising from the seal is neglected. Thus, some
calculation errors may exist.
The time response of the air gap thickness is shown in Figure
13. It is observable that the work-piece contacts the vacuum
pad at the beginning. After this impact, however, the thickness
of the air gap settles and reaches the steady-state value. Figure
14 shows an experimental example, where the generated
suction force makes successfully a CD-disk adhere to the
developed vacuum pad. The supply pressure is adjusted to be
2 bar and the weight of the CD-disk is approximately 16 g.
Table 2-Simulation and experimental results concerning
the vacuum pressure
Figure 12-Simulation and experimental relation between
the absolute value of vacuum pressure and the
input excitation current
