1行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
在P2P網路中網路方位定位系統之研究與應用
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-216 -022 -
執行期限：98 年 8 月 1 日至 99 年 7 月 31 日
主持人：王俊鑫助理教授 中華大學資訊工程學系
E-mail: chwang@chu.edu.tw
中文摘要
P2P技術已經被廣泛的應用在整合網路節點資源分享，但P2P網路耗費許多的網路頻寬
資源，因此，如何提升P2P網路效能及避免浪費網路頻寬是非常迫切的問題。在本計畫中，
我們提出一個可提供節點在網路中精確的位置資訊之網路方位定位系統(Network
Locality Positioning System, NLPS)，並非設計一個新的P2P系統，不管是結構化或是非
結構化的P2P系統中，NLPS都能夠提供足夠的網路方位資訊以解決覆蓋網路與真實網路不一
致性的問題，並能夠從眾多的搜尋結果中選擇最適當的下載節點。我們利用NLPS將P2P系統
中的網路節點分成邏輯叢集，相同叢集中的網路節點給予相同的區域編碼，藉此定義節點
在網路中的區域性。為評估NLPS系統的效能，我們以常見的DHT-based點對點系統來模擬，
系統中的節點以原有DHT-based的ID結合其區域編碼，因此搜尋時仍依照DHT-based的P2P
系統來進行，而搜尋結果亦可包含擁有所需資源節點的區域編碼，如此我們可以藉由查詢
結果中的區域編碼來選擇好的下載節點。由模擬實驗結果顯示使用NLPS系統的DHT點對點系
統較其他的DHT點對點系統有較好的效能。
Abstract
The P2P technology has been widely applied to the integration and sharing of network
resources. But P2P traffic costs much network bandwidth resource. Therefore, how to enhance the
performance of P2P networks to avoid wasting network bandwidth is an emergency issue. In this
project, we propose a network locality positioning system (NLPS) to provide precise locality
information of nodes in networks instead of designing new P2P systems. The proposed NLPS can
provide enough locality information of nodes to solve the consistent problem when overlay
networks are constructed whatever the P2P systems are unstructured or structured. It can also
provide how to select the best candidates of downloading the requested resource from the
searching result. The nodes in P2P system can be classified into logical clusters and assigned the
same locality code to define their locality by the proposed NLPS. To evaluate the performance of
NLPS, DHT-based P2P systems cooperating with NLPS are simulated. The locality code of a node
is associated with its DHT-based identifier (ID).The searching process is performed as normal
operation in DHT-based P2P system, then searching results will include the locality code of each
node which owns the requested resource. Therefore, best candidate node(s) can be selected from
the searching result by their associated locality codes. Extended simulation results show that
DHT-based P2P system cooperating with NLPS has better performance than the others DHT-based
P2P systems.
3的最終目的，為取得資源，因此，如何從搜尋結果中，選擇適當的節點作為下載的對象，
以縮短取得資源的速度，亦為計畫的研究重點
二、文獻探討
有許多文獻[9-20]提出相關的方法去改進 P2P 覆蓋網路與真實網路不一致的問題，
第一類方法使用 Landmark[9-14]為基礎將網路節點分成數個不同的叢集，相同叢集內的
節點為真實網路中較為接近的節點，雖然能改善不一致性的問題但是如何建置適當的
Landmark 位置與 Landmark 的數量和維護問題都需要額外的討論。
第二類方法中，在[15]中，利用 Autonomous System Numbers (ASNs)，改變原本 DHT
訂定 ID 的方式，讓有相同 ASN 的節點它們的 ID 值會較接近，如此，在同一個 AS 內的節
點，因 ID 值接近的關係，在 DHT 為基礎的覆蓋網路中有機會相鄰或相近，讓搜尋會儘量
的以同一個 AS 內，以改善搜尋的效能，但是利用 AS 來做區域性的判定，節點的相鄰性
仍不足，在[16]中，則利用不需要額外建置的 Landmark 而使用現有的 DNS Server 來當
作 Landmark 使用，雖然可以節省建置 Landmark 的費用，但是 DNS 在與測量節點距離太
遠時會造成準確性不足的問題。
第三類方法中，把覆蓋網路分成雙層架構的階層式，將原本 Chord 的覆蓋網路在
Grapes[17]中被分割成數個 Sub-Network 與一個 Super-Network，下載時優先考慮
Sub-Network 內是否有所需要的檔案資源若沒有則往 Super-Network 找尋，但是此方法
卻會破壞原本使用 DHT 架構的負載平衡優點。Grapes 架構的缺點是會破壞了 DHT 的負載
平衡優點，在 Hsiao, R.等人提出的 Jelly[19]研究中明確地指出這一點，Jelly 透過限
制 Sub-Network 中節點的個數，以及設計各個 Sub-Network 分割與合併機制來解決這個
問題。Grapes 除了上述的缺點外，在 Grapes 中區域性只有存在 Sub-Network 中，當
Sub-Network 查詢不到檔案時，即有可能會挑選網路區域遙遠的節點做為下載目標。
在[20]中，下載檔案資源方面提出了利用 IP prefix 和 AS number 做為網路節點的
區域性資訊(Locality information)，藉由 RouteViews project [21]的資料，bootstrap
server 可建立 IP prefix 與 AS number 的對應表，當節點加入時須向 bootstrap server
提出加入的請求，而 bootstrap server 即會依據加入節點的 IP 位址，計算節點的 IP
prefix 及 AS number 後回傳給加入節點，並提供已在系統中的部份節點供加入節點從中
選擇區域性較為接近的節點做為鄰居節點，以相同 IP prefix 為優先，其次為 AS number，
接下來為 AS hop-distance 最小者，最後為隨意的選取，以此優先權順序來建構覆蓋網
路。當節點做搜尋時，回應的資訊包含 IP prefix 與 AS number，而發送查詢的節點會
依相同 IP prefix，相同 AS number，最小距離的 AS hot-distance 的順序來選擇較近的
下載節點，並且存在自己的鄰居表中，當下次節點欲搜尋檔案時會先從自己的鄰居表中
查找是否有所需的節點，而在每次搜尋時都會更新自己的鄰居表。雖然從搜尋結果中可
以找尋較近的節點下載，但是需要過多的比較計算，且利用 AS number 來選擇，相鄰性
亦不夠準確。
在我們先前提出的方法 LA-P2P[22]中，利用 Anycast 通訊協定[23-25]，將真實網
路中較接近的節點分類成相同的邏輯叢集(Logical Clusters)並且給予相同的區域編碼
(Local Code)，藉區域編碼來定義網路節點彼此的遠近關係區域性，但是當系統設置的
編碼長度過短時或節點頻繁的加入與離開，皆會造成建立的覆蓋網路與真實網路的不一
致性情況發生，以及若編碼長度過長則會浪費儲存空間。
三、研究方法與模擬結果
(a)研究方法
計畫中所提出的系統稱之為網路方位定位系統(Network Locality Positioning
System, NLPS)，以下將針對系統初始化、節點加入、節點離開、叢集更新、以及在下載
時如何依據區域編碼挑選出好的節點等運作方式敘述如下。
5圖二.區域編碼與邏輯叢集之間關係示意圖
以範例來說明如何定義區域編碼，如圖一.為真實網路拓樸圖，並且在每一條連結
(Link)上標示出相連接兩節點之間的 RTT 值，圖二.為 NLPS 利用 Anycast 所建立的樹狀
網路架構圖，虛線的圓圈表示叢集領導點，圓圈內的字為叢集 ID，圓圈底下的虛線方格
為叢集的區域編碼，在此範例中，真實網路的拓樸結構內共有 17 個節點，而有 8個節點
加入到 NLPS 網路中，Root 節點為加入系統的第一個節點，後續節點加入 NLPS 的順序為
{A, B, C, D, E, F, G}，系統建立的時間門檻值 t 訂定為 100 ms，當節點 A加入時經
由 Anycast 找到的最近叢集為叢集 Root，但是 RTT 值已超過設定的時間門檻值 t ，因此
節點 A必須要自成一個叢集而節點 A成為新叢集 A的領導節點，且叢集 Root 為叢集 A的
父叢集，節點 F加入時經由 Anycast 找到的最近叢集為叢集 A，且 RTT 值為 77 並未超過
時間門檻值 t ，因此即加入叢集 A成為叢集 A內的節點。
當節點 B加入 NLPS 時經由 Anycast 找到的最近叢集為叢集 Root，並且 RTT 值大於
時間門檻值 t ，因此必須自成一個新的叢集，但是由於節點的陸續加入我們可以發現當
叢集 E加入時，叢集 B在真實網路上最近的叢集已非原本的叢集 Root 而是叢集 E，因此
若要讓我們所建立的區域編碼更能符合真實網路的情況，必須要在新叢集建立時適時的
更新樹狀結構，在我們建立的 NLPS 中能在叢集 E建立時快速的更新整個樹狀結構的情
況，如圖二.(b)，當叢集 E加入後叢集 B會更新在樹狀結構中的位置。
 叢集更新
由於叢集加入的先後順序不同，且 P2P 網路頻繁的加入與離開特性，所以可能在新
叢集加入後，舊的鄰居叢集在加入時使用 Anycast 找到的叢集已經不符合最新的網路狀
況。當新節點加入時我們可能會需要更新 NLPS 中樹狀結構內叢集與叢集的鄰居關係，所
以我們提出以下兩種更新方法:
A. 新加入叢集利用Anycast所找到的父叢集其全部的鄰居叢集皆更新 (鄰居叢集全部
重新加入 Anycast group)。
B. 比新加入叢集 RTT 值高的鄰居叢集才更新。
方法 A雖然可以讓網路節點在每次叢集產生時都更新以讓我們建立的區域編碼與真
實網路更一致的情況，但是每次叢集產生就更新亦會造成系統的負擔及資源的浪費，因
此我們不考慮使用方法 A，而從方法 B中，我們歸納出以下現象得到以下的定理。
<定理> 鄰居叢集的 RTT 值比新加入叢集的 RTT 值小的則不需要考慮鄰居關係變動。
證明:
當新加入節點經由 Anycast 找到在 P2P 網路中最接近的領導叢集後，由於與其領導
叢集的 RTT 值又大於時間門檻值 t ，因此才成為找到的領導叢集其鄰居叢集，而新叢集
加入時可能會造成已存在的鄰居叢集關係變動，假設新叢集加入時與領導叢集的 RTT 值
大於鄰居叢集與領導叢集的 RTT 值，因此如果新叢集加入時鄰居叢集發生變動的條件必
定是新叢集與鄰居叢集的距離比鄰居叢集原本利用 Anycast 找到領導叢集的距離還短，
由此可以知道新叢集與鄰居叢集的 RTT 值比鄰居叢集到領導叢集的距離還短，這與我們
7由此範例得知叢集 H內節點所查詢的檔案擁有的節點不同優先權分別是:
1. H
2. C
3. G、R
4. A、P
(b)模擬結果
我們使用 BRITE[26]拓樸結構產生器產生我們所需的 P2P 網路架構，在實驗中我們
利用 BRITE 產生的 Waxman 模型圖，假設系統初始時共有 8種不同的檔案正在 P2P 系統中
做分享，每種檔案皆有 3份，共 24 份檔案在網路中做分享，當節點搜尋下載後系統中的
檔案就多一份。每一節點加入 P2P 系統的時間是 Poisson 分佈，並且在系統中停留的時
間是為指數分佈(Exponential Distribution)，我們假設每個節點在系統停留的平均時
間為 2小時，其中每個實驗結果為隨機產生的 20 張拓樸網路圖的平均，並且統計 5000
筆隨機查詢8種檔案的實驗數據，查詢的間隔是Exponential分佈，查詢的時間為Poisson
分佈。另外，NLPS 系統初始設定的時間門檻值(Time Threshold) t 為 100 ms。
為了比較所提出的 NLPS 系統的效能，Chord[4]、Grapes[5]與 LA-P2P[21]系統也會
同時執行並且統計結果。在 Grapes 系統中時間門檻值(Time Threshold)被使用於用來決
定新增網路節點應該加入的 Sub-Network，在本實驗中 Grapes 系統的時間門檻值(Time
Threshold)也是設定為 100 ms。
圖五. NLPS 與 LA-P2P 在不同優先權的下載傳輸延遲比較圖
在圖五為 NLPS 與 LA-P2P 在不同優先權情況下的下載傳輸延遲比較圖，由於我們所
建立的 NLPS 系統中，在初始建立叢集時就會動態的更新樹狀結構，且在區域編碼方面不
會因為 LA-P2P 會由於區域編碼長度不足，而無法將新加入叢集加到最接近叢集的鄰居
中，只能加到離自己最近叢集的子叢集，因此在不同優先權下載的情況下 NLPS 系統所建
立的區域編碼更能符合真實網路狀況，由圖五實驗結果觀察到在二與第三優先權的網路
延遲時間皆低於LA-P2P，而在第一優先權中由於我們的NLPS所建立的區域編碼與LA-P2P
比較起來更符合真實網路的情況，所以在第一優先權的情況下也會有較好的效能。
9圖八.不同點對點系統 Latency Stretch 比較圖
Latency Stretch 是指測量所得的傳輸延遲與最佳傳輸延遲之間的比值，在圖八是
門檻值為 100 的情況下，不同節點總數的網路環境中，統計不同點對點系統的 Latency
Stretch，圖中我們可以觀察到所提出的 NLPS 系統比其他點對點系統擁有更低的 Latency
Stretch，也比 LA-P2P 的方法還低。在 1000 節點總數的網路環境中，NLPS 系統的 Latency
Stretch 會低於 1.35，隨著節點個數不斷增加時，最後在 5000 節點總數的網路環境中，
NLPS 系統的 Latency Stretch 仍然是最低的依舊是低於 1.4。
圖九.不同優先權 hit ratio比較圖
圖九為不同優先權情況 LA-P2P 與我們方法 NLPS 的 hit ratio 比較圖，hit ratio
指的是節點搜尋檔案後，選擇下載檔案所使用的優先權下載次數的比例，如果在前三優
先權中都沒有搜尋所需的檔案，則隨機從任一擁有檔案的節點下載。由圖觀察可知 NLPS
在 Second Priority 的下載次數比例跟 LA-P2P 比較起來是稍微降低，但是在 Third
Priority 的下載次數比例是大幅優於 LA-P2P 的，且 NLPS 使用 Random 次數也較 LA-P2P
低，那是因為我們的方法在建立 Overlay Network 時會動態更新節點資訊，使得我們所
建立的 Overlay Network 更符合真實網路的情況，因此 NLPS 於檔案搜尋時在第三優先權
情況下能有更多的機會搜尋到檔案，整體來說，節點在下載檔案時，從節點附近的下載
點去下載的比率提高了。
四、計畫自評
在本計畫中，我們設計可提供節點在實際網路上位置的網路方位定位系統(NLPS)，
設計可代表方位的區域編碼，用以解決覆蓋網路與實際網路的一致性的問題，NLPS 可應
用於不同的 P2P 網路系統，改善 P2P 系統中資源搜尋與下載的效能，以節省不必要的網
路頻寬的浪費，實驗結果驗證，結合 NLPS 的 P2P 系統較其他系統有更好的效能。本計畫
相關的研究成果，”可動態更新區域性的點對點網路”論文發表於國內研討會[27]、 ”
在 P2P 網路中網路方位定位系統”的論文發表在 IEEE ICUFN 2010 的國際會議[28]，另
11
[17] Shin, S. Lee, G. Lim, H. Yoon, and J. S. Ma, “Grapes: Topology-based Hierarchical Virtual
Network for Peer-to-peer Lookup Services,” In Proceedings of the International Conference
on Parallel ProcessingWorkshops (ICPPW’ 02), (2002).
[18] Zhenyu Li, Gaogang Xie and Zhongcheng Li”Locality-Aware Consistency Maintenance for
Heterogeneous P2P Systems,” IEEE International Parallel and Distributed Processing
Symposium, 2007. IPDPS 2007, pp.1–10, March (2007).
[19] Richard Hsiao and Sheng-De Wang, “Jely: A Dynamic Hierarchical P2P Overlay Network
with Load Balance and Locality,” In Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on
Distributed Computing Systems Workshops (ICDCSW '04), March (2004)
[20] Guoqiang Zhang and Guoqing Zhang “Agent Selection And P2P Overlay Construction
Using Global LocalityKnowledge” IEEE International Conference on Networking, Sensing
and Control (ICNSC.2007), pp.519–524, April (2007).
[21] http://www.routeviews.org
[22] Chun-Hsin Wang, and Jyun-Cheng Ciou, “Locality-Aware Peer-to-Peer Networks”In The
9th International Conference on Advanced Communication Technology, (ICACT. 2007),
pp.1462–1466, Feb.(2007).
[23] S. Weber and Liang Cheng, “A survey of anycast in IPv6 networks,” IEEE Communications
Magazine, Jan 200.
[24] C. Partridge, T. Mendez, and W. Milliken, "Host Anycasting Service," IETF RFC 1546,
November 1993.
[25] C. Metz, “IP anycast point-to-(any) point communication,” IEEE Internet Computing,
March-April 2002.
[26] A. Medina, A. Lakhina, I. Matta, and J. Byers. BRITE: An Approach to Universal Topology
Generation. In Proceedings of the International Workshop on Modeling, Analysis and
Simulation of Computer and Telecommunications Systems-MASCOTS ’01, Cincinnati, 
Ohio, August (2001).
[27] Yen-Tin Wu and Chun-Hsin Wang, “可動態更新區域性的點對點網路,”2009 年資訊科
技應用學術研討會(2009, Dec.)
[28] Chun-Hsin Wang and Yen-Tin Wu, “Network Locality Positioning System in P2P
Networks, ” IEEE The Second International Conference on Ubiquitous and Future
Networks (ICUFN 2010), pp. 384-389, June (2010).
[29] Chun-Hsin Wang and Chuang-Yang Chiu, “Copyright Files Protection by Pieces Pollution in P2P
Networks, ”Journal of Information Technology and Applications, vol. 4, No. 3, pp. 113-122,
September 2010.
the size of sub-networks is variant, the natural load balance
provided by DHT system may be destroyed.
We summarize some disadvantages of nodes’s locality in-
formation described above as follows.
• Landmarks-based methods [9-14]: The sensitivity of
nodes’s locality depends on how many number of land-
marks is and where landmarks are located.
• AS(IPS)-based methods[15-17]: The nodes’s locality can
not be distinguished in an AS (or ISP) which may
contains a large number of nodes, even over 10000
nodes [21].
• Hierarchy-based methods[18-20]: They may destroy the
natural load balance provided by DHT system.
To get the resources for a network node in P2P system, there
are two necessary steps. The first step is searching where the
desired resource is on the overlay network. The second step
is to download the desired resource directly from nodes found
by the first step. The locality of nodes play an important role
to solve the consistent problem. Many researches [9-20] make
efforts to improve the searching latency by building topology-
aware overlay networks with the assistance of nodes’s locality.
But some disadvantages described above still exist due to the
lack of more precise locality information of nodes. In addition,
it is worth noting that there may be many nodes which own
the desired resource in searching result. Which node(s) will
be the best candidate(s) for downloading the desired resource?
The time need to acquire the desired resource will depend on
how close is between the selected node to requested node.
In this paper, we propose a network locality positioning
system (NLPS) to provide more precise locality information
of nodes in networks instead of designing new P2P systems.
The proposed NLPS can provide precise locality information
of nodes to solve the consistent problem whatever the P2P
systems are unstructured or structured. It can also provide
how to select the best candidates for downloading the desired
resource from the searching result.
The nodes in P2P system can be classified into logical
clusters and assigned the same locality code to define their
locality by the proposed NLPS. The approximate distance
between two nodes is embedded in theit locality codes. The
proposed NLPS can cooperate with any unstructured and
structured P2P systems without destroying the characteristics
provided by original P2P systems. To evaluate the performance
of NLPS, DHT-based P2P systems cooperating with NLPS are
simulated. The locality code of a node is associated with its
DHT-based identifier(ID). The searching process is performed
as normal operation in DHT-based P2P system, then searching
results will include the locality code of each node which owns
the desired resource. Therefore, best candidate node(s) can be
selected from the searching result by their associated locality
codes. Extended simulation results show that DHT-based P2P
system cooperating with NLPS has better performance than
the others DHT-based P2P systems.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. The proposed
NLPS is described in section II. Simulation result is presented
in section III. Finally, some concluding remarks are given in
section IV.
II. NETWORK LOCALITY POSITIONING SYSTEM
This section describes the proposed network locality po-
sitioning system (NLPS). Each node joining the P2P system
will be assigned a locality code provided by NLPS to define its
locality. The relative positions of nodes in physical network
topology are embedded in their locality codes. The locality
codes of nodes can represent the distant relationship how close
they are. The approximate distance between two nodes can be
evaluated by their locality codes. Since nodes may join or
leave in P2P system, the relationship of neighboring nodes in
P2P system may be changes. Therefore the locality codes of
nodes need to be updated as nodes are joining or leaving to
match their relative positions in physical network.
Before describing our proposed system, we introduce the
basic idea how to organize peers into clusters first. One node
within a cluster is chosen to be the cluster leader. According to
how close to cluster leaders is, a joining node can decide which
cluster belongs to. The cluster leaders become the request
candidates for a joining node and only the nearest one from
the joining node to be selected. This phenomenon is very like
the anycast protocol [22-24]. It motivates us to use anycast
protocol to organize peers into clusters. The cluster leaders
can be grouped into an anycast group sharing with an anycast
address. A joining node can find the nearest cluster leader
from it by anycast protocol. If the joining node is far from the
found cluster leader, a new cluster will be created. Otherwise,
it belongs to the found cluster. In this way, peers can be self-
organized into clusters by anycast protocol.
The system initialization, nodes joining, nodes leaving,
locality code assignment and update, and how to select the
good node(s) by locality codes are described as follows.
A. system initialization
The joining nodes will be organized into logical clusters. In
each cluster, there exists one cluster leader and backup leader
for tolerance. The cluster leaders are grouped into an anycast
group (say, Gany). In the system initialization, the first node
joining P2P system will be the root node and become the
cluster leader. An unique cluster identifier (CID) with length
l bits will be assigned to the root cluster. The CID may be
generated by some hashing functions. The anycast group Gany
contains only one member initially (ie., the root node). Note
the root node may be setup by the P2P system and it always
stay in the system, not leaving.
B. Node joining
By anycast protocol, a new node joining a P2P system can
send a query to the anycast group Gany to find which the
nearest cluster leader is close to it. The round-trip delay will
be measured between the new node and the cluster leader
(say, node N ) found by anycast protocol. To define a cluster
which joining node belong to, a time threshold, tρ, is defined.
If the measured round-trip delay is not longer than tρ, the
385
Fig. 5. Locality codes are updated after node E is joining
node is the cluster leader and no other nodes exist in it. In
this situation, the son cluster(s) of the disappeared cluster will
simply replace their new parent cluster with their grandparent
cluster first and then update their locality codes. As a new node
is joining to the P2P system, it may self-organize a new cluster
and the neighboring relationship of existing clusters may be
changed. For example, node E joins the P2P system in the
example of Fig. 3. A new cluster E is created. Fig. 4 shows
the relationship of clusters when node E joins the P2P system
initially. The original sons cluster of cluster Root may need
to update their neighboring relationship due to the new cluster
E. The cluster E can know its sibling(s) from the cluster Root
and then measure the round-trip delay time from it to them.
The cluster B is near cluster E than cluster Root. Therefore,
cluster B will be notified to be the son cluster of cluster E
and update its locality code as showed in Fig. 5.
E. The neighboring hop distance between two locality codes
The locality code of peer is composed of (k − 1) CIDs
ancestor clusters and its CID . It means that one peer can
keep the number of (k−1) different level neighboring clusters
starting from itself. We refer to each level as neighboring
hop distance. If two peers have common ancestors, there
must exist same part of CIDs in their locality codes, except
the common ancestors are over (k − 1) neighboring hop
distance. We can find the nearest common ancestor from
two locality codes and know the neighboring hop distance
between them. For example, the neighboring hop distance is
3 for two locality codes, CIDRoot + CIDA + CIDD and
0+CIDRoot+CIDB . Because the CIDRoot is their nearest
common ancestor, cluster D is two neighboring hop distance
to cluster Root and cluster B is one neighboring hop distance
to cluster Root. If no common ancestors exist for two peers,
it means that they have more than 2(k − 1) neighboring hop
distance.
F. The priorities of selecting good nodes for downloading
Each peer in P2P system is assigned with a locality code
provided by the NLPS. The NLPS can cooperate with struc-
tured or unstructuredP2P systems. In structured P2P system,
locality codes of peers can be distributed with the published
resources-sharing information. In unstructured P2P system,
peers only need to reply their locality codes associated with IP
Fig. 6. The priorities of selecting nodes for downloading
address when queries are receiving and they have owned the
requested resource. The searching process to query a required
resource is performing by the cooperating P2P system.
One node in the cluster sends a query message for request-
ing a resource, the searching result will contain the locality
code of each node which owns the requested resource. By
computing the neighboring hop distance, the request node can
evaluate the owners how close to it is. The good nodes can be
selected for downloading by the following priorities.
1) The first priority is to select random nodes from the
cluster which is the same with the request node. That is
the neighboring hop distance between the selected node
and the request node is zero.
2) The second priority is to select random nodes which are
one neighboring hop distance from the request node.
3) The third priority is to select random nodes which are
two neighboring hop distance from the request node.
4) If there is no first priority, second priority node and
third priority nodes, random nodes are selected from the
searching result.
For example, Fig. 6 displays the relationship of clusters and
their locality codes. One node in cluster H sends a query
by the P2P system cooperated with the proposed NLPS. The
searching result is supposed that the owners of the requested
resource are in cluster A,C,G,H, P , and R. The first priority
nodes are in cluster H , the second priority nodes are in cluster
C, the third priority nodes are in cluster G or R, and then the
random selected nodes are in clusters A or P .
III. SIMULATION RESULTS
In this section, simulations are performed to study the
performance of the proposed NLPS P2P system. To simulate
internet topology, the real-word internet topologies from the
skitter database [25] is used to generate random graphs. In the
system initialization, there are eight kinds of files resources
to be shared and each of them are owned by three different
random nodes in the system. The node may join or leave the
P2P system in our experiment. The time of nodes joining the
P2P system forms a poisson process. The lifetime of nodes
387
1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 4500 5000
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2
2.2
2.4
2.6
Number of Nodes
A
ve
ra
ge
 L
at
en
cy
 S
tre
tc
h
Chord Grapes LA−P2P NLPS
Fig. 11. Average latency strength with tρ = 100
closer to the optimal propagation latency than those for the
others. Compared with tρ = 100 ms, more nodes which
own the desired resource may be included into the first three
priorities when tρ = 200 ms. The request node may increase
the chance to select nodes for downloading nearby it instead of
random selection. The performance for Grapes, LA-P2P, and
NLPS is improved when tρ = 200 ms. Note the performance
of NLPS is still better than the others.
The latency strength is defined by the ratio of the measured
propagation latency to the optimal propagation latency. Fig. 11
shows the average latency strength in different P2P systems
for different number of nodes in the network. The proposed
NLPS P2P system has lowest latency strength than the others.
The performance for the chord-based system is still worst than
those for the others.
IV. CONCLUSION
The proposed NLPS system can provide precise locality
information of peers in networks. The peers can be classified
into logical clusters and assigned the same locality code to
define their locality. The approximate distance between two
nodes is embedded in locality codes. The good nodes close
to the request node can be selected for downloading from the
searching result by their associated locality codes. Extended
simulation result shows that the proposed NLPS P2P system
has better performance than the others. In future, how to setup
good topology-aware overlay networks by NLPS system for
solving the consistent problems will be further studied.
REFERENCES
[1] R. Steinmetz and K. Wehrle, ”P2P Systems and Applications”, Springer
Lecture Notes in CS, 2005.
[2] H. Wang, Y. Zhu, and Y. Hu, ”To Unify Structured and Unstructured P2P
Systems,” In Proceeding of the 19th International Parallel and Distributed
Processing Symposium (IPDPS05), Denver, Colorado, April 2005.
[3] Napster http://www.napster.com
[4] Gnutella http://www.gnutella.com
[5] I. Stoica, R. Morris, D. Karger, M. F. Kaashoek and H. Balakrk-
shnan, ”Chord: A Scalable Peer-to-peer Lookup Service for Internet
Applications,” In Proceedings of the 2001 conference on applications,
technologies, architectures, and protocols for computer communications
(SIGCOMM), pp. 149V160, San Diego, CA, 2001.
[6] S. Ratnasamy, P. Francis, M. Handley, R. Karp, and S. Shenker, ”A
Scalable Content Addressable Network,” In Proceedings of the 2001
conference on applications, technologies, architectures, and protocols for
computer communications (SIGCOMM), San Diego, CA, 2001.
[7] B. Y. Zhao, J. D. Kubiatowicz, and A. D. Joseph, ”Tapestry: An
infrastructure for fault-tolerant wide-area location and routing,” Technical
Report UCB/CSD-01-1141, UC Berkeley, Apr. 2001.
[8] Petar Maymounkov, and David Mazi?res, ”Kademlia: A Peer-to-Peer
Information System Based on the XOR Metric,” The First International
Workshop on Peer-to-Peer Systems, March 2002.
[9] S. Ratnasamy, M. Handley, R. Karp, and S. Shenker, ”Topologically-
aware overlay construction and server selection,” in Proceedings of IEEE
INFOCOM, 2002.
[10] Tein-Yaw Chung, Yang-Hui Chang, Chia-Yu Liu, and Yung-Mu Chen,
”SSIF: Stable Self-Organized Infrastructure-based Peer-to-Peer Network,”
The 9th International Conference on Advanced Communication Technol-
ogy (ICACT 2007), pp. 1441-1446, Feb. 2007.
[11] Oztoprak, K., and Akar, G. B.,” Two-Way/Hybrid Clustering Archi-
tecture for Peer to Peer Systems,” Second International Conference on
Internet and Web Applications and Services (ICIW ’07.), pp. 1457-1461,
Feb. 2007.
[12] Wang Huijin, and Lin Yongting, ”Cone: A Topology-Aware Structured
P2P System with Proximity Neighbor Selection,” Future generation
communication and networking (FGCN 2007), pp.43-49, Dec. 2007.
[13] Xing Chen, and Qing Yang, ”A Locality-Based LFH Cluster Strategy for
Overlay Network,” International Conference on Information Networking
(ICOIN 2008), pp.1-5, Jan. 2008.
[14] X. Zhang, Z. Li, and Y. Wang, ”A distributed topology-aware overlays
construction algorithm,” In Proceedings of the 15th ACM Mardi Gras
conference, Jan. 2008.
[15] Pfeifer, G., Fetzer, C. and Hohnstein, T. ”Exploiting Host Name Locality
for Reduced Stretch P2P Routing,” Sixth IEEE International Symposium
on Network Computing and Applications (NCA 2007), pp. 134-144, July
2007.
[16] Guoqiang Zhang, and Guoqing Zhang, ”Agent Selection And P2P Over-
lay Construction Using Global Locality Knowledge,” IEEE International
Conference on Networking, Sensing and Control (ICNSC.2007), pp. 519-
524, April 2007.
[17] Weiyu Wu, Yang Chen, Xinyi Zhang, Xiaohui Shi, LinCong, Beixing
Deng and Xing Li, ”LDHT: Locality-aware Distributed Hash Tables,”
International Conference on Information Networking (ICOIN 2008), pp.
1-5, Jan. 2008.
[18] Shin, S. Lee, G.. Lim, H. Yoon, and J. S. Ma, ”Grapes: Topology-
based Hierarchical Virtual Network for Peer-to-peer Lookup Services,”
In Proceedings of the International Conference on Parallel Processing
Workshops (ICPPW’ 02), pp. 159-164, Aug. 2002.
[19] Richard Hsiao, and Sheng-De Wang, ”Jelly: A Dynamic Hierarchical
P2P Overlay Network with Load Balance and Locality,” In Proceedings
of the 24th International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems
Workshops (ICDCSW ’04), pp. 534-540, March 2004.
[20] Zhenyu Li, Gaogang Xie, and Zhongcheng Li, ”Locality-Aware Consis-
tency Maintenance for Heterogeneous P2P Systems,” IEEE International
Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS 2007), pp.1 - 10,
March 2007.
[21] Z. M. Mao, J. Rexford, J, Waang, and R. H. Katz, ”Towards an accurate
AS-level traceroute tool,” In Proceeding of SIGCOM ’03, pp. 365-378,
2003.
[22] S. Weber, and Liang Cheng, ”A survey of anycast in IPv6 networks,”
IEEE Communications Magazine, pp. 127-132 Jan 2004.
[23] C. Metz, ”IP anycast point-to-(any) point communication,” IEEE Internet
Computing, pp. 94-98, March-April 2002
[24] C. Partridge, T. Mendez, and W. Milliken, ”Host Anycasting Service,”
RFC 1546 (1993).
[25] http://www.caida.org/tools/measurement/skitter/
[26] Chun-Hsin Wang, and Jyun-Cheng Ciou, ”Locality-Aware Peer-to-Peer
Networks(LA-P2P)” In The 9th International Conference on Advanced
Communication Technology, (ICACT. 2007),pp.1462-1466, Feb. 2007.
389
表 Y04
應深耕如何利用資訊、網路安全等技術來防範與避免非法資源的分享。
五、攜回資料名稱及內容
名稱：ICUFN 2010 光碟一片。
內容：收錄會議論文集。
六、其他
感謝國科會提供的研究經費，讓本人可以參與這次的國際會議，發表論文並與會
學者學術交流，受益良多。
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：王俊鑫 計畫編號：98-2221-E-216-022- 
計畫名稱：在 P2P 網路中網路方位定位系統之研究與應用 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 100% 期刊論文, 整裡中 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
