reconstruction, unparallel projections, also known as oblique projections, can also be 
collected. Incorporation of oblique projection information greatly improves data 
sensitivity but significantly increases the volume of projection data. In the past twenty 
years, analytic, iterative[1][2], and series methods have been proposed for direct 
three-dimensional image reconstruction for PET. In order to cut down processing time, 
in the early days of this method rebinning[3] was employed to transform the 
three-dimensional data into two-dimensional form. However, the rebinned 
two-dimensional data is not what is actually measured by machines and therefore this 
information is unsatisfactory. In 1989, Kinahan and Rogers [4] proposed a 
reprojection method, so called 3DRP, to carry out real three-dimensional image 
reconstruction in this regard. The algorithm employs two passes of an analytic filtered 
backprojection（FBP）and adopts Colsher’s[5] finding to limit the acceptance angle to 
attain better image quality. We simulate our newly proposed reconstruction method 
with the STIR program, and improve the sensitivity of the first image estimate by 
rebinning different oblique projections and use the image for improving the sensitivity 
of unmeasured oblique projections for additional images in the whole 3D image set. 
Therefore, the image quality of this modified 3DRP method will be improved through 
analysis of the intermediate sinograms and their integration into a final reconstructed 
image. 
2. RESEARCH METHOD 
In our method, we place emphasis on the modification of the first two steps of 
the 3DRP method. The goal is to increase the sensitivity of the estimated projection 
data for generating better quality reconstructed images. In order to take into account 
the oblique projection information for more sensitive information, the rebinning 
method was used to conduct the transformation into corresponding direct projections 
as shown in Figure 1. The rationale is two fold. First, the quality of the initial direct 
 第 2頁
overcome the problem of truncated machine geometry. The incorporation of 
oblique projections can be manipulated and adjusted for different settings of the 
experiment. 
(4) The relations between sensitivity information and reconstructed image quality 
are analyzed to find better configuration parameters. 
In order to generate a STIR-compatible input image file, a program was written 
to combine the original 15 phantom3d output files into the Interfile format. The 
limited [0,1] range was also scaled to that of the standard floating number. fwdtest 
then was used to perform the forward projection to generate the projection data 
sonogram files for analytic reconstruction. In the second step mentioned above, STIR 
utility SSRB was employed to rebin the oblique projections into their corresponding 
parallel projections as proposed by our enhancement scheme. Span was set to 15 and 
mashing factor was set to 1 in the setting of our experiment parameters. The initial 
image estimate then was created using FBP2D for later operations. At last, the initial 
image estimate was used along with the FBP3DRP to perform a three-dimensional 
reconstruction. 
3. Experimental Results 
Among the criteria used to compare the quality of the reconstructed image, noise, 
resolution, and contrast are the common ones in the research [6]. In our conducted 
experiment, it is the assumption that only resolution and contrast are checked to solely 
evaluating the rebinning effect.  Figures 2, 3, and 4 line up the reconstructed images 
of different slice groups for 2DFBP, 3DRP, and our 3DRP-SSRB schemes in three 
vertical columns for comparisons. 
 第 4頁
 Fig 4. Reconstructed image slices 11-15 for 2DFBP, 3DRP, and 3DRP-SSRB 
methods (from left to right). 
To quantitatively evaluate the quality of the reconstructed image, an MSE (Mean 
Squared Error) estimator is used to estimate the expected variation between the output 
and the input images. From the MSE numbers generated, it can be concluded that 
2DFBP outperformed the two three-dimensional reconstruction methods in the central 
slices. On the contrary, the three-dimensional methods reconstructed better near the 
both ends of the image sequences as opposed to the traditional two-dimensional 
reconstruction. In particular, our proposed 3DRP-SSRB method demonstrated its 
superior image quality by showing the least MSE figures among all three tested 
methods in our experiments. Therefore, reprojection-based three-dimensional 
reconstruction method is the better choice consistently and oblique projection can be 
rebinned to improve the image quality with insignificant computational overhead 
according to our research findings. The graphical representation is shown in Figure 5. 
 第 6頁
