 2
process and cooperation workflow are defined. Next, the MAS specification design 
phase derives the MAS specification, including the agent classes, their conversations 
and system configuration, from the CNPD process and cooperation workflow. 
Finally, an empirical case is developed to verify the feasibility of the proposed 
approach. 
 
Keywords: Concurrent New Product Development; Multi-Agent System; 
Design Chain Operations Reference model (DCOR); MaSE 
methodology 
 
1. Introduction 
 
The concept of concurrent new product development (CNPD) has been 
recognized as an effective means for minimizing the new product development time 
[1]. As Figure 1 shows, the overall CNPD process comprises the parallel 
development stages. Each stage contains two kinds of activities: the main-activity 
and the cooperation-activity. The main-activity consists of a set of tasks that should 
be performed to complete the stage. The cooperation-activity is done before the 
main-activity to request the participation of downstream workgroups in solving new 
product development problems. The cooperation-activity is definitely the core of 
CNPD and lets related workgroups cooperate in the early stages so that the 
consensus on product design can be achieved as early as possible and the reworking 
times can be minimized [1]. 
 
Figure 1. CNPD process 
Recently, multi-agent system (MAS) has been considered a very promising 
computer-supportive cooperative environment and several MAS development 
approaches have been proposed for CNPD cooperation [2,3,4]. These approaches are 
basically goal-driven. That is, the MAS framework is developed on a goal basis, 
such as to resolve the specific product design conflicts. However, in a CNPD 
process, different cooperation requirements take place at different stages and need 
different workgroups to be involved. Consequently, these goal-driven approaches 
 4
process-driven one?  
 
2.2. Design Chain Operations Reference-model 
 
To solve Issue 1, an industry standard, Design Chain Operations 
Reference-model (DCOR), is introduced. DCOR is a configurable process reference 
model for product development which was released by Supply Chain Council (SCC) 
in 2006 [8]. DCOR is hierarchical with three levels. Level 1 defines five basic 
management processes: Plan (P), Research (R), Design (D), Integrate (I) and Amend 
(A). Level 2 divides process R, D and I into “process categories” to adapt to three 
business environments: Product Refresh (1), New Product (2) and New Technology 
(3). Level 3 further decomposes each process categories into standard “process 
elements” and provides much valuable referable information for each process 
element, such as the required input (source) and output (destination), process 
performance metrics and best practices that produce best-in-class performance. 
This research focuses on new product development and thus majorly refers to the 
New Product section of DCOR (DCOR’s New Product), including process 
categories R2 (Research New Product), D2 (Design New Product), I2 (Integrate 
New Product) and their process elements. DCOR’s New Product has provided much 
referable information and configurability for new product development process, but 
it cannot describe the participant workgroups and detailed cooperation workflow for 
CNPD. Besides, using DCOR as a requirement analysis tool will result in an 
integration issue between it and MaSE’s system design method. Therefore, two 
issues need to be addressed. 
 
Issue 2: How can we increase the expressive power of DCOR’s New Product on 
participant workgroups and different cooperation workflow? 
 
Issue 3: How can we incorporate process-driven requirement analysis method 
with the MAS design method of MaSE? 
 
3. The proposed approach 
 
Figure 2 is the framework of the proposed process-driven MAS development 
approach for CNPD cooperation. This framework has two phases: the process-driven 
cooperation requirements analysis phase and the MAS specification design phase. 
 
3.1. The process-driven cooperation requirements analysis phase 
 6
company-specific organizational delegation. The process elements are aligned 
from left to right according to their executing sequence. Additionally, the 
input/output information of the process elements which vertically flows among 
workgroups should is retrieved and depicted on the diagram to connect relevant 
process elements. 
3. Specify the required cooperation-activities between workgroups. The vertical 
cross-workgroup information flows depicted in step 2 have shown the likely 
place for cooperation-activities. However, the company still needs to confirm if 
there really needs a cooperation-activity and note with the name beside the 
tagged gray circle. 
Figure 3 is an example for constructing a Modified D-L3-M. Suppose three 
workgroups (Engineering, R&D and New Tech. Dep.) cooperate to complete a new 
product development. Engineering is the initiator and the synthesizer of the new 
product development. The tasks of New Tech. Dep. are driven by R&D’s tasks. Thus, 
the company can first designate the names of workgroups from Engineering to New 
Tech. Dep. on the Y-axis (Step 1). Next, by mapping the process elements of 
DCOR’s New Product to workgroups’ tasks, process elements I2.1 to I2.7, D2.1 to 
D2.6, and R2.1 to R2.6 are assigned to Engineering, R&D, and New Tech. Dep., 
respectively. Afterward, as Figure 3 shows, six cross-workgroup information flows 
are retrieved from DCOR’s New Product and indicate a likely place for 
cooperation-activities (Step 2). Finally, two early cooperation-activities Module Req. 
Coordination and Component Req. Coordination are specified on the diagram (Step 
3) and the desired CNPD process is derived. 
 
3.1.2. Cooperation workflow definition 
 
This step uses E-Business Scenario Diagram [9] to capture the cooperation 
workflow for each cooperation-activity specified in the Modified D-L3-M. 
E-Business Scenario Diagram (Figure 4) is column-based. The business participants 
are placed in the column header while the column edges symbolize the interfaces 
between participants. All of the participant’s procedures are modeled under its own 
column with business processes (hexagon) and business documents (circle). The 
single-arrow lines connecting a business document and two processes represent the 
transfer of process-specific information. This research prescribes that a business 
document can has at most one inflow line and one outflow line. 
 8
 
The phase transforms the CNPD cooperation requirements into a set of the 
MAS specification. This phase basically follows the logic of MaSE’s design method 
[6] except that the third step, agent assembly, is merged into the first two steps. 
Hence, this phase has three steps: agent class creation, conversations construction 
and system deployment. Besides, a minor modification is made on these steps for 
successfully unifying the process-driven requirement analysis method (Issue 3) and 
MaSE’s agent assembly step. 
 
3.2.1. Agent class creation 
 
This step identifies a set of agent classes and their conversations from the 
Modified D-L3-M and documents in an Agent Class Diagram (Figure 5) which 
depicts agent classes with boxes and their conversations with lines connecting the 
agent classes. An agent class is further described with its name, methods and the 
workgroup name it acts for. 
 
Figure 5. Agent Class Diagram for Figure 3 
The agent class methods and conversations are designed for implementing 
workgroup’s main-activity and cooperation-activities respectively. The syntax of an 
agent class method is expressed as below. 
main_method () 
The main_method is the name of the agent class method. This research does not 
detail the agent class method anymore. The syntax of a conversation between agent 
classes can be denoted as follows. 
conversation (initiator, responder) 
The conversation is the name of the conversation between agent classes initiator and 
responder. The process of deriving Agent Class Diagram from Modified D-L3-M is 
described as follows: 
1. Identify agent classes. Agent classes are identified from Modified D-L3-M’s 
workgroups. Each agent class represents one workgroup and is titled with the 
workgroup’s name. 
 10
proposed in the third and fourth ones. 
Table 1. The notation transformation table 
E-Business Scenario Diagram Communication Class Diagram 
      
  
  
 
      
  
  
 
Figure 6 shows two Communication Class Diagrams transformed from Figure 
4’s E-Business Scenario Diagram. First, agent class Engineering proposes a Module 
Design Req. for negotiating with agent class R&D. A start node and a propose 
transition are constructed in the Communication Class Diagrams for Engineering 
and R&D, respectively. Engineering is then in a Wait state while R&D proceeds to 
two internal information transfers and a proposal evaluation. After evaluation, R&D 
either ends the conversation by using the accept-proposal transition or continues 
proposing the modification suggestion to Engineering and entering a Wait state. 
When Engineering receives the modification suggestion, it starts an internal 
information transfer and suggestion evaluation. Next, a propose transition is created 
for negotiating the modified Module Design Req. or the Counter-Modification 
Suggestion with R&D. 
 
(a)                          (b) 
Figure 6. Communication Class Diagrams transformed from Figure 4 for agent class 
(a) Engineering and (b) R&D 
 
3.2.3. System deployment 
 12
cross-workgroup cooperation. (2) providing more flexibility by defining the 
modeling and transforming methods instead of prescribing how a company should 
resolve the design conflicts. 
 
Figure 8. Modified D-L3-M for Y Corp. 
 
Figure 9. E-Business Scenario Diagram for cooperation-activity Module Req. 
Coordination 
 
Figure 10. Agent Class Diagram for Y Corp. 
 
Figure 11. Communication Class Diagrams transformed from Figure 9 
 14
5. S. Park, and V. Sugumaran, “Designing multi-agent systems: a framework and 
application”, Expert Systems with Applications, 2005, 28, 259-271. 
6. S.A. DeLoach, M.F. Wood, and C.H. Sparkman, “Multiagent Systems 
Engineering”, International Journal of Software Engineering and Knowledge 
Engineering, 2001, 11(3), 231-258. 
7. Bellifemine, F., G. Caire, and D. Greenwood, Developing multi-agent systems 
with JADE, 1st ed. John Wiley & Sons: England, 2007. 
8. Supply-Chain Council, Design Chain Operations Reference-model (DCOR) 
Version 1.0, Supply-Chain Council: Pennsylvania, 2006. 
9. IDS Scheer AG, ARIS 6 Collaborative Suite: ARIS Method, Saarbrücken: IDS 
Scheer AG, 2004. 
10. Foundation for Intelligent Physical Agents, FIPA Communicative Act Library 
Specification, Geneva: Foundation for Intelligent Physical Agents, 2002. 
 
A process-oriented multi-agent system development approach to support
the cooperation-activities of concurrent new product development
Yeh-Chun Juan a, Chao Ou-Yang b,*, Jiun-Shiung Lin a
aDepartment of Industrial Engineering and Management, Ming Chi University of Technology, 84 Gungjuan Rd., Taishan, Taipei 24301, Taiwan, ROC
bDepartment of Industrial Management, National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, 43 Sec. 4, Keelung Rd., Taipei 10607, Taiwan, ROC
a r t i c l e i n f o
Article history:
Received 15 September 2008
Received in revised form 11 June 2009
Accepted 8 July 2009
Available online 14 July 2009
Keywords:
Concurrent new product development
Multi-agent system
Design Chain Operations Reference model
(DCOR)
MaSE methodology
a b s t r a c t
In the recent decade, concurrent new product development (CNPD) has been recognized as an effective
approach for eliminating the long and costly product development cycle. CNPD needs multi-disciplinary
workgroups to communicate and cooperate in a computer network environment, particularly a multi-
agent system (MAS) environment. Recently, several MAS development approaches for CNPD cooperation
have been proposed. These approaches constitute on a goal basis and this will conﬁne the application of
developed MAS to the pre-deﬁned goals. However, in a complete CNPD process, different cooperation
requirements take place at different stages and need different workgroups to be involved. Consequently,
the goal-driven MAS development approaches can only provide a partial solution to the overall cooper-
ation requirements of a CNPD process.
This research has proposed a process-oriented approach to develop MAS for all CNPD cooperation
requirements. This approach is acting on two phases: the process-oriented cooperation requirements
analysis phase and the MAS speciﬁcation design phase. The process-oriented cooperation requirements
analysis phase ﬁrst deﬁnes the desired CNPD process and cooperation workﬂow based on the com-
pany-speciﬁc organizational structure and practice. Next, the MAS speciﬁcation design phase derives
the MAS speciﬁcation, including the agent classes, their conversations and system conﬁguration, from
the deﬁned CNPD process and cooperation workﬂow. Besides, an empirical case is used to explain the
proposed approach and to verify the feasibility of the proposed approach on the Java Agent Development
Framework (JADE).
 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
1. Introduction
New product development usually comprises several stages, e.g.
the idea generation, concept development, detail design and pro-
duction engineering, which are managed by different workgroups
in a company (Westkamper, 2000; Fagerstrom and Jackson;
2002; Chu & Cheng, 2005). Traditionally, these stages are per-
formed sequentially and usually result in a long product develop-
ment time. As the product life cycle becomes shorter and shorter,
many manufacturers, especially the original design manufacturers
(ODM), have put their efforts in shortening the long product devel-
opment time to promote their competitiveness.
To this end, concurrent new product development (CNPD) pro-
posed in 1980s has nowadays been recognized as an effective
means for minimizing the new product development time (Prasad,
1999; Prasad, Wang, & Deng, 1998). CNPD emphasizes that up-
stream workgroups should cooperate with downstream work-
groups in their own stages to simultaneously consider all desired
product development characteristics for downstream stages so
that a robust design can be produced as early as possible and the
product development time can be shortened (Ashley, 1992; Bhui-
yan, Thomson, & Gerwin, 2006; Cleetus, 1992; Oliveto, 2000; Pra-
sad, 1996). Furthermore, each CNPD stage has two kinds of
activities. One is the ‘‘main-activity” executed autonomously by
the responsible workgroup and the other is the ‘‘cooperation-activ-
ity” performed cooperatively among workgroups. Obviously, the
cross-workgroup cooperation-activities are the core of CNPD. As
a result, developing a computer supported cooperative platform
to support these cooperation-activities has become an attractive
research issue in recent years.
Recently, multi-agent system (MAS) has been considered a very
promising enabler for providing a computer supported cooperative
environment for those areas that require coordination, negotiation
and communication among various organization units (Nwana,
1996). Consequently, many researchers have put their efforts on
the development of agent-based cooperation platform for CNPD
(Ratchev, Shiau, & Valtchanov, 2000; Shen, Norrie, & Barthes,
2001; Sun, Zhang, & Nee, 2001; Tan, Hayes, & Shaw, 1996; Zhao
0360-8352/$ - see front matter  2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/j.cie.2009.07.004
* Corresponding author. Tel.: +886 227376340; fax: +886 227376344.
E-mail addresses: ycjuan@mail.mcut.edu.tw (Y.C. Juan), ouyang@im.ntust.edu.
tw, ouyang@mail.ntust.edu.tw (C. Ou-Yang), jslin@ccsun.mit.edu.tw (J.-S. Lin).
Computers & Industrial Engineering 57 (2009) 1363–1376
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Computers & Industrial Engineering
journal homepage: www.elsevier .com/ locate/caie
for Intelligent Physical Agents (FIPA–ACL) (Foundation for Intelli-
gent Physical Agents, 2002a 2002b) and are twomostwidely known
standard languages for agent communication. FIPA also produced
software standards speciﬁcations for heterogeneous and interacting
agents and agent-based systems (Charlton & Cattoni, 2001; Founda-
tion for Intelligent Physical Agents, 2002a). In addition, a software
development framework, Java Agent Development Framework
(JADE),was proposed for developingMAS to conformFIPA standards
(Bellifemine, Caire, & Greenwood, 2007). It contains a FIPA-compli-
ant agent platform and a package for Java agent implementation.
Alternative tool like ZEUS also provides a visualized design environ-
ment and an agent library for designers to easily extend the func-
tions of related agents (Nwana, Ndumu, Lee, & Collis, 1999).
2.2. Approved industry standard for CNPD process analysis
As mentioned in Section 2.1, MaSE originally uses a goal-driven
method for requirement analysis which has to be replaced with a
process-oriented one for the objective of this research. To be a good
process-oriented requirement analysis method, this method needs
to be conﬁgurable for the requirements from various companies.
Reference process models are a good choice because their main
objective is to streamline the design of particular process models
by providing a generic solution (Rosemann & van der Aalst, 2007).
Design Chain Operations Reference-model (DCOR) released by
Supply-Chain Council (SCC) in 2006 is a conﬁgurable process-refer-
ence model for product development (Supply-Chain Council,
Fig. 2. (a) DCOR framework and (b) graphical model of DCOR’s process element (Supply-Chain Council, 2006).
Y.C. Juan et al. / Computers & Industrial Engineering 57 (2009) 1363–1376 1365
This section also uses an empirical case, Y Mobile Communica-
tion Corp. (Y Corp.) to illustrate the proposed approach. Y Corp.
established in 1999 is a smart phone ODM manufacturer in Tai-
wan. To speed up new product development, it determined to
implement the MAS-supportive CNPD for achieving a synergy.
3.1. The process-oriented cooperation requirements analysis phase
The objective of the process-oriented cooperation requirements
analysis phase is to capture the CNPD cooperation requirements
from the point of view of process thought (Issue 1). In addition to
deﬁning the desired CNPD process, to organize the CNPD coopera-
tive team and direct its efforts, it is also necessary to specify the
workﬂow activities among CNPD team members (Prasad et al.,
1998). Hence, this phase has two steps: CNPD process deﬁnition
and cooperation workﬂow deﬁnition.
3.1.1. CNPD process deﬁnition
The ﬁrst step in the process-oriented cooperation requirements
analysis phase is to deﬁne the desired CNPD process for a company.
According to the CNPD concept introduced in Section 1, a CNPD
process is composed of several concurrent product development
stages with responsible workgroups and, in each stage, work-
groups should perform two kinds of activities, the main-activity
and the cooperation-activity. The main-activity means the tasks
that autonomously performed by responsible workgroups to com-
plete their own stage. The cooperation-activity is those activities
that the responsible workgroup performs before the main-activity
to request downstream workgroups for simultaneously solving the
conﬂicts about desired new product characteristics.
However, Section 2.2 has mentioned that DCOR’s New Product
is good at conﬁguring new product development process, but it
lacks the expressive power on participant workgroups and cooper-
 
I Integrate D Design R Research 
I2 Integrate New Product D2 Design New Product R2 Research New Product 
I2.1 Receive & Validate 
Request 
D2.1 Receive, Validate & 
Decompose Request 
R2.1 Receive & Validate 
Request 
I2.2 Decompose Request D2.2 Schedule Design 
Activities 
R2.2 Schedule Research 
Activities 
I2.3 Distribute Requirements D2.3 Develop Prototype R2.3 Source Materials 
I2.4 Receive & Validate 
Design 
D2.4 Build & Test Prototype R2.4 Verify Materials 
I2.5 Pilot Design D2.5 Package Design R2.5 Transfer 
Findings/Materials 
I2.6 Package Product D2.6 Release Design to 
Integrate 
R2.6 Authorize Supplier 
Payment 
I2.7 Release Product     
 noitinifeD/noitpircseD tuptuO/tupnI
Design 
Requirements 
Design requirements are the translation of a set of functional requirements into 
design specifications that meets both the enterprise and customer expectations. 
Research 
Requirements 
Research requirements related to design needs, including forecasts and actual orders 
and backorders. 
Validated 
Design 
A design of product which ensures performance and conformance to defined 
specifications and requirements. 
Design 
Specifications 
Design Specification will: a.Define the technical scope of the product. b.Define the 
expected use and purpose of the product. c. Define relationships with existing 
products. d.Describe the design of the product. 
Research 
Specifications 
Research specifications: Product Description, Raw Materials, Equipment Required, 
Production Consideration, Production Process, Merchandising Considerations, 
Estimated Shelf-Life. 
a
b
c
Fig. 4. (a) Modiﬁed DCOR Level 3 Model (Modiﬁed D-L3-M) for Y Corp.’s CNPD process deﬁnition, (b) process elements of DCOR’s New Product and (c) cross-workgroup
information ﬂow retrieved from DCOR’s New Product.
Y.C. Juan et al. / Computers & Industrial Engineering 57 (2009) 1363–1376 1367
As shown in Fig. 5, Y Corp. has used E-Business Scenario Dia-
gram to elaborate the company-speciﬁc cooperation workﬂow for
the four cooperation-activities speciﬁed in Fig. 4a’s CNPD process.
The cooperation-activity Component Req. Coordination is chosen
for explanation here and Fig. 5b is its E-Business Scenario Dia-
gram. Since workgroups M and CD cooperate for getting this
work done, each of them is allocated a swimlane (Step 1). Fur-
ther, Fig. 4a shows the trigger event of Component Req. Coordi-
nation is the transfer of information Research Requirements from
workgroup M to workgroup CD. By referring to company-speciﬁc
practice, the transferred information Research Requirements is
speciﬁed as Component Design Req. and put in the swimlane
of Engineering (Step 2). Finally, company-speciﬁc cooperation
workﬂow for Component Req. Coordination is elaborated (Step
3) as follows. After receiving the Component Design Req. from
workgroup M, workgroup CD retrieves relevant component de-
sign knowledge from available knowledge base and human
beings experience. Next, a series of conﬂict detection/resolution
is started. Workgroup CD ﬁnally either accepts the Component
Design Req. or feeds workgroup M with relevant modiﬁcation
suggestion. When workgroup M receives the modiﬁcation sug-
gestion from workgroup CD, it starts the evaluation mechanism
and responds either the counter suggestion or the modiﬁed
workgroup CD Design Req. to workgroup CD. These procedures
recur between workgroups M and CD until a consensual Compo-
nent Design Req. is achieved.
Marketing (M) Product Design (PD)
Receive
Proposal
Module
Design 
Req.
Modify
Module Design 
Req. Retrieve
 Knowledge 
Modification 
Suggestion
Module Design 
Req. .AND. 
Module Design
Knowledge
Module 
Design
 Req. 
Receive
Modification 
Suggestion
Conflict 
Detection
/Resolution
Modification 
Suggestion
Module
Design Req .
Module
Design Req .
Receive 
Confirmed 
Module Design 
Req.
Module
Design Req .
Marketing (M) Component Design (CD)
Receive
Proposal
Component
Design Req .
Modify
Component 
Design Req .
Retrieve
 Knowledge 
Modification 
Suggestion
(Component Design 
Req. .OR.
Counter-Modification 
Suggestion )
.AND.
Component Design 
Knowledge
Component Design 
Req. .OR.
Counter-Modification 
Suggestion
Receive
Modification 
Suggestion
Conflict 
Detection
/ResolutionModification 
Suggestion
Component
Design Req.
Component
Design 
Req.
Receive 
Confirmed 
Component 
Design Req .
Modification 
Suggestion 
Evaluation
Counter-
Modification 
Suggestion
Modification
Suggestion
Component
Design Req.
Marketing (M) Industrial Engineering (IE)
Receive
Proposal
Pilot Design 
Req.
Modify
Pilot Design 
Req.
Pilot Design 
Req.
Receive
Modification 
Suggestion
Conflict 
Detection
/Resolution
Modification 
Suggestion
Pilot Design 
Req.
Pilot Design 
Req.
Receive 
Confirmed Pilot 
Design Req .
Modification
Suggestion
Pilot Design 
Req.
Product Design (PD) Component Design (CD)
Receive
Proposal
Prototype
Design Req.
Modify
Prototype 
Design Req . Prototype 
Design Req .
Receive
Modification 
Suggestion
Conflict 
Detection
/Resolution
Modification 
Suggestion
Prototype 
Design Req .
Prototype
Design 
Req.
Receive 
Confirmed 
Prototype 
Design Req .
Modification
Suggestion
Prototype
Design Req.
a b
c d
Fig. 5. E-Business Scenario Diagram for cooperation-activity. (a) Module Req. Coordination, (b) Component Req. Coordination, (c) Pilot Design Req. Coordination and (d)
Prototype Req. Coordination of Y Corp.
Y.C. Juan et al. / Computers & Industrial Engineering 57 (2009) 1363–1376 1369
This step has depicted a rudimentary MAS speciﬁcation by
using Agent Class Diagram. The next step will complement this
step by actually deﬁning the details of those conversation docu-
mented in the Agent Class Diagram.
a
b
c
d
Fig. 7. Communication Class Diagram of (a) Module Req. Coordination, (b) Component Req. Coordination, (c) Pilot Design Req. Coordination and (d) Prototype Req.
Coordination derived from Fig. 5 for Y Corp.
Y.C. Juan et al. / Computers & Industrial Engineering 57 (2009) 1363–1376 1371
Therefore, MaSE deﬁnes a conversation with two Communica-
tion Class Diagrams, one for the initiator and the other for the re-
sponder. A Communication Class Diagram is a ﬁnite state machine
that deﬁnes the conversation states of two participant agent clas-
ses. As shown in Fig. 7, it is composed of the start (d), end (s),
states (rounded-rectangles) and transitions (single-arrowed lines).
The syntax of a transition follows conventional UML notation and
is expressed as below.
Fig. 10. Implementation of conversation Component Req. Coordination (M, CD) for Y Corp.
Y.C. Juan et al. / Computers & Industrial Engineering 57 (2009) 1363–1376 1373
keting, Product_Design, Component_Design and Industrial_Eng,
are instantiated from the agent classes M, PD, CD and IE, respec-
tively, and each agent has its own physical platform. In addition,
the conversations between these agents are also instantiated from
the conversations between agent classes.
Once the Agent Class Diagram, Communication Class Diagrams
and Deployment Diagram are constructed, the MAS speciﬁcation is
deﬁned for depicting the complete MAS as it will eventually be
implemented for supporting the required CNPD cooperation-
activities.
4. Implementation and CNPD application of empirical case
To validate the proposed approach and verify its application on
CNPD, this section implements the MAS speciﬁcation derived in
Section 3 for Y Corp. and uses a new mobile product development
event to demonstrate the application of implemented MAS on
CNPD.
As described in Section 2.1, JADE has simpliﬁed the MAS imple-
mentation through a middle-ware that complies with the FIPA
speciﬁcations (Bellifemine et al., 2007). This research also uses
the FIPA communicative acts to name the transitions in Communi-
cation Class Diagrams. This has contributed to bridging the gap be-
tweenMAS speciﬁcation and JADE platform. Thus, this research has
chosen JADE to implement the actual MAS for Y Corp.
Fig. 9 shows the four agents, including Marketing, Prod-
uct_Design, Component_Design and Industrial_Eng, instanced
from the four agent classes deﬁned in Fig. 6. In addition to the
log-in welcome message, each agent window shows the methods
(the upper buttons) and conversations (the lower buttons) of the
agent. Since this research mainly supports the cooperation-activi-
ties among workgroups, a new mobile product development event
is used here to demonstrate the Y Corp.’s CNPD cooperation-activ-
ities via agent conversation.
Now a business customer informs workgroup M he wants a new
mobile phone with the requirements: L90-105/W65-75/Max.H23/
Max.WT165. As a result, workgroup M initiates a new mobile
phone development project, namely K502. According to past expe-
rience, several key issues, such as the chassis module design, motor
component design and pilot run lot issue need to be considered
and conﬁrmed as early as possible. As a result, agent Marketing
can negotiate the above issues with agents Product_Design, Com-
ponent_Design and Industrial_Eng via its conversation Module
Req. Coordination (M, PD), Component Req. Coordination (M, CD)
and Pilot Design Req. Coordination (M, IE), respectively.
Assume that workgroup M is afraid that the coin type motor is
not available. Thus, workgroup M uses the conversation Compo-
nent Req. Coordination (M, CD) of agent Marketing to request
agent Component_Design for the determination of the size of coin
type motor. Fig. 10 is the implementation of the conversation Com-
ponent Req. Coordination (M, CD). Basically, the conversation pro-
cedure is according to the coordination protocol deﬁned as Fig. 7b
and the data ﬁelds shown in each agent window are customized
according to company-speciﬁc product/module/component/
knowledge speciﬁcation.
Agent Marketing ﬁrst proposes the maximum size of coin type
motor (D6/H2) to agent Component_Design (Fig. 10a) and enters
a wait state. After receiving the request for suggestion (Fig. 10b),
agent Component_Design retrieves alternative coin type motors
with their stock and unit price for workgroup CD’s reference
(Fig. 10c). Considering the higher stock and lower unit price, work-
group CD gives a high priority to the coin type motor with D6/H3/
S2200/$5.8 and sends this suggestion to agent Marketing (Fig. 10d)
and then enters a wait state. When agent Marketing receives the
suggestion (Fig. 10e), it evaluates the alternative coin type motors
with their height (what the customer most cares about) and sug-
gests the coin type motor with D6/H2.7/S300/$6.7 (Fig. 10f). After-
ward, agent Marketing proposes the modiﬁed size (D6/H2.7) to
agent Component_Design (Fig. 10g) and enters a wait state. The
same, agent Component_Design receives the modiﬁed size
(Fig. 10h) and retrieves relevant information and make an evalua-
tion (similar to Fig. 10c and d). However, it ﬁnally conﬁrms the
speciﬁcation (Fig. 10i) to agent Marketing (Fig. 10j) and ends the
conversation.
As Fig. 11b shows, the above agent interaction can be captured
by JADE Sniffer Agent and represented with the Agent Interaction
Diagram. The rectangle at the top represents an agent. The agent
lifeline (vertical line) indicates the time during which the agent
existed. An arrowed line between agents represents the communi-
cation between agents. Fig. 11 shows the Agent Interaction Dia-
grams for the four cooperation-activities deﬁned in Fig. 5. Thus, Y
Corp. can verify the consistency between the system execution
and the deﬁned CNPD cooperation requirements by comparing
the Agent Interaction Diagrams and the E-Business Scenario Dia-
grams. From Figs. 5 and 11, it can be seen that Fig. 5’s cooperation
workﬂows have been supported by the agent interaction of the
implemented MAS.
5. Conclusions
This research has proposed a process-oriented MAS develop-
ment approach to support the cooperation requirements in a CNPD
process. A two-phased development framework, including pro-
cess-oriented cooperation requirements analysis and MAS speciﬁ-
cation design, is presented. Besides, an empirical case is developed
and implemented on the JADE platform to verify the proposed ap-
proach. The major contributions of this research are:
1. As Kirchmer (2004) stated, to design and implement inter-
enterprise e-business processes efﬁciently and effectively, more
and more organizations use available industry standards. This
research has carried out this concept, even though the proposed
approach is designed for inter-workgroup cooperation in a com-
pany, not for inter-enterprise cooperation.
2. Different design conﬂicts require different resolution methods.
The proposed approach only deﬁnes the modeling and the
transforming methods, not prescribing how a particular com-
pany should resolve speciﬁc design conﬂicts. Thus, the pro-
posed approach will provide companies more ﬂexibility to
adapt to their speciﬁc business environment and product
design conﬂicts.
3. Rosemann and van der Aalst (2007) mentioned that the applica-
tion of reference models is motivated by the ‘‘Design by Reuse”
paradigm. The proposed approach has incorporated a product
development reference model (DCOR) and an accepted MAS
development approach (MaSE). Therefore, it will facilitate a
broader future application.
Despite these advantages, further research will be needed. Since
this research has limited the MAS development to the cooperation-
activities among workgroups, the design and implementation
about the internal tasks of each workgroup is ignored. This incom-
pletion has hindered the proposed approach from instantly being
applied to pragmatic works. Therefore, incorporating the design
and implementation of main-activity of workgroups into the pro-
posed approach is our next research goal. Besides, MaSE has put
much effort on the integration of related OO methods for MAS
development while JADE has successfully integrated the FIPA stan-
dards into a friendly package for MAS implementation. Hence,
bridging the gap between MaSE’s speciﬁcation and JADE frame-
work is a research topic in the future.
Y.C. Juan et al. / Computers & Industrial Engineering 57 (2009) 1363–1376 1375
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
2010 年 7 月 29 日 
 
報告人姓名 阮業春 服務機構及職稱 明志科技大學工業工
程與管理系副教授 
會議時間及地點 2010.7. 25 – 28 
日本，淡路島 
本會核定補助文號 NSC  
98-2221-E-131-028 
會議名稱 (中文) 第 40 屆國際電腦與工業工程研討會 
(英文) The 40th International Conference on Computers & 
Industrial Engineering 
發表論文題目 (中文) 應用類神經網路於造紙公司產銷協調之改善 
(英文) Applying Neural Network to Improve Sales and 
Operations Planning for Paper Companies 
 
11. Production/Manufacturing Systems & Processes; Agile Manufact.; ERP/APS  
12. Design for Manufacturing, Robust Design, Reverse Engineering  
13. Group Technology & Cellular Manufacturing  
14. Environmentally Conscious Manufacturing  
15. Human Factors, Industrial Ergonomics and Safety  
16. Project Development & Management  
17. Global Economy Engineering & IE  
18. Manufacturing Technologies  
19. Artificial Intelligence & Expert Systems  
20. Healthcare Systems Applications  
21. Industrial Engineering Education and E-learning  
22. Ethics in IE Education Research & Practice  
23. Service Systems including Energy, Transportation, Communication,  
24. Utilities and Environmental Control 
而四天的研討會共分 80 個場次進行論文的發表，本人所發表的論文安排在
99.7.26 的(MP-Gb) Systems & Processes: Agile Manufacturing, ERP/APS 1 場次，
同時本人很榮幸的擔任該場次的主持人，能有機會與來自台灣、中國大陸及韓國
的學者進行學術交流。 
 
出席照片 
      
                                                                                                                 
23. Analyzing The Supply Chain Using SCOR Model In A Steel Producing 
Company 
24. A Framework for Measuring Performance of Service SCM 
此外，本次研討會特別安排下列學者及講題做為 Keynote Talk、Plenary Talk
及 Tutorial Talk，講題內容給予與會學者很深的思考空間： 
1. Andrew Kusiak (University of Iowa, USA), Innovation in Manufacturing, 
Energy, and Service Systems  
2. Cien-Fu Chien (National Tsing Hua University, ROC), A Conceptual 
Methodology of “Industrial Engineering” for “the Industry as a whole”: 
Semiconductor Industry as Illustration 
3. Imed Kacem (Paul Verlaine University, France), Scheduling Function for 
Management and Optimization in Production and Service Systems 
4. Seren Ozmehmet Tasan (Dokuz Eylul University, Turkey), Multiobjective 
Hybrid Genetic Algorithms for Assembly Line Balancing Models 
5. Masanori UEDA (Nissan Co.), Challenges on Widespread Marketplace 
Acceptance of Electric Vehicles – Towards Zero Emission Mobility Society 
6. K.H. Kim and B.H. Hong (Pusan National University), Maritime Logistics and 
Applications of Information Technologies 
7. Hisao Ishibuchi (Osaka Prefecture University), Memetic Algorithms for 
Evolutionary Multiobjective Combinatorial Optimization 
8. Xinjie Yu (Tsing Hua University, ROC), Introduction to Evolutionary 
Algorithms 
9. Lin Lin (Dalian University of Technology & FLSI), Network Modeling and 
Optimization for Engineering Applications 
    參加國際研討會的主要目的之ㄧ即利用機會認識領域相關學者，所謂
Academic Networking 是學者本身在國際研討會活動中，利用最佳機會與國際學
界(Academic Community)和學者(Academic colleagues)互動接軌。本次參加第 40
屆國際電腦與工業工程研討會的最大收穫，即是能有機會與來自台灣、中國大陸
韓國、及日本之工業工程與資訊科學領域學者進行學術交流。 
    此外，部份學者係以團隊發表的方式出席，因此，日後本校或本系若能以同
領域或跨領域共同指導的方式指導研究生，則可形成不同團隊出席及曝光的機
會，有利國際學術形象及地位的提升。 
 
攜回之研討會相關資料 
1. CIE40 (IEEE Catalog Number: CFP1076G-CDR; ISBN 978-1-4244-7296-3) 研
討會論文光碟一張 
2. CIE40 Program 一本 
 Sales 
department 
Manufacturing 
department 
Inventory 
department 
Begin-of-month sales 
forecasting (FSbeg) 
Determine the 
production for the 1st 
half month (P1st-half) 
Mid-month sales 
forecasting (FSmid) 
Determine the 
production for the 2nd 
half month (P2nd-half)
Compute the total 
production of the month 
(Ptotal) 
Compute the total 
production of the 
month (Ptotal) 
Set safety stock (SS)
 
leading paper manufacturing company, YFY Paper 
Manufacturing Co., Ltd. (YFY Paper), would be used 
throughout this paper. 
II. REVIEW OF EMPIRICAL COMPANY 
YFY Paper established in 1950 is a pioneer of private paper 
manufacturer in Taiwan. YFY Paper has introduced a variety 
of different paper products to the market, including fine paper, 
industrial paper, paper container and household paper products. 
As described before, several recent business changes have 
made paper demand fluctuate drastically. On the one hand, 
information explosion and emerging markets, including 
Vietnam, India and Thailand, etc., have pushed the use of paper. 
On the other hand, claims of saving energy and reducing 
carbon emission and technological advances, such as the mass 
storage technology and e-Paper technology, have driven people 
to reduce paper consumption [12]. Fig. 1 shows the data about 
production, sales and inventory of the recent 24 months from 
YFY Paper. Obviously, there are variations between the 
monthly data for production, sales and inventory. 
In order to successfully fulfill customer orders with stable 
production and inventory, YFY Paper requires a reliable 
prediction of supply and demand and an effective coordination 
method for sales and operations planning. This research has 
collected the data, including the production, sales, inventory, 
and mid-month ordered quantity, etc., of the recent 9 years 
from YFY Paper for the illustration of the proposed method. 
The data of the first 7 years were used as the training data of 
BPNN for sales and inventory forecasting. On the other hand, 
the data for the last 2 years were used to verify the validity and 
feasibility of the proposed method. 
III. REVIEW OF NEURAL NETWORK 
A neural network modeling the learning properties of a 
human brain consists of an input layer, an output layer, and one 
or more hidden layers. Each layer contains several nodes which 
connect to the nodes of adjacent layer(s). A node is a 
processing unit that contains a summation function and an 
activation function. A weight (W) returns a mathematical value 
for the relative strength of connections to transfer data from 
one layer to another layer; and a summation function (y) 
computes the weighted sum of all the input elements entering a 
node. Before the output reaches the next level, the activation 
function is used to prevent the output value from being too 
large and transform it into an acceptable range [6, 13]. In the 
forecasting context, the nodes in the input layer represent 
independent variables and the node in the output layer is the 
forecasting output. 
The operation of a neural network is determined by the 
connection method and the nature of the processing units [6]. 
Among various operational algorithms, the back-propagation 
neural network (BPNN) has attracted much attention from 
researchers because of its fast response and high learning 
accuracy [5, 6, 9, 14, 15, 16]. A BPNN computes the error 
values for the externally provided actual data with the 
network’s output. The error values is then used to adjust the 
weights by calculating the backward from the output layer to 
the hidden layer(s) until the error values fall into an acceptable 
range of discrepancies, which determines when the neural 
network has reached the required level of accuracy [6, 13]. 
IV. THE PROPOSED SALES AND OPERATIONS 
PLANNING METHOD 
Since production is a function of inventory replenishment 
policy, inventory levels and customer demands [3], sales and 
operations planning is a coordination among the sales, 
manufacturing, and inventory departments to determine the 
production plan for the coming period. Fig. 2 shows the 
proposed sales and operations planning method. It describes 
the coordination among sales, manufacturing, and inventory 
departments with a sequence diagram [17]. Each department, 
depicted by a thick rectangle, is symbolized by its lifeline – a 
vertical line. The behaviors or operations that each department 
needs to fulfill are represented by the grey thin rectangle 
superimposed on the department’s lifeline. The arrows between 
the lines represent interaction or messages being sent to a 
particular department to invoke one of its operations. 
Figure 1.   The data of recent 24 months from YFY Paper. 
Figure 2.  The proposed sales and operations planning method. 
  
 
TABLE I.  PART OF DATA FROM YFY PAPER 
Year Month Production Sales Inventory 
#8 
Jan. 6769.77064 6894 6436.1208 
Feb. 7367.37136 7176 6629.7392 
Mar. 7044.55216 6556 7119.3524 
Apr. 6675.67584 6815 6979.6224 
May 6201.57424 6306 6874.8824 
Jun. 6902.79384 6808 6969.8612 
Jul. 6950.92312 7086 6832.9572 
Aug. 6956.66304 6843 6948.3476 
Sep. 7009.47584 7065 6892.5364 
Oct. 6752.90736 6595 7052.2141 
Nov. 6686.20488 6791 6945.4900 
Dec. 6658.18336 6741 6860.7311 
#9 
Jan. 6768.38736 6647 6983.7543 
Feb. 6504.75536 6571 6917.1310 
Mar. 6550.14976 6849 6618.6389 
Apr. 7293.27712 6831 7080.3235 
May 6521.43568 6649 6953.5780 
Jun. 6262.38552 6674 6541.9767 
Jul. 6867.66680 6780 6625.0081 
Aug. 7203.24744 6850 6983.0073 
Sep. 6836.41136 6918 6901.5911 
Oct. 7086.14336 6757 7230.6268 
Nov. 6532.90336 6880 6880.2270 
Dec. 6710.85384 6641 6953.4549 
 
Figure 4.   Original sales and new sales for YFY Paper. 
Figure 5.  Original sales and new production for YFY Paper. 
Figure 6.  Original production and new production for YFY Paper. 
Figure 7.   Original inventory and new inventory for YFY Paper. 
VI. CONCLUSIONS 
This research has proposed a two-staged coordination 
method accompanying BPNN-based forecasting for paper 
companies to improve their sales and operations planning. A 
real world data from YFY Paper were also used to illustrate 
and verify the proposed method. The major advantages of this 
approach include: 
1) The accuracy of sales forecasting is enhanced. This 
effect has lowered the importance of the safety stock. 
2) A steady production and inventory can be achieved. 
This will make related plans, such as the capacity plan, 
subcontracting plan, employment plan, etc., easier. 
3) 3. Better demand forecasts. 
Despite these advantages, further research will be needed. 
For example, this research did not put much effort into the 
optimization of the BPNN model development. The accuracy 
of BPNN model may be enhanced by incorporating the genetic 
or fuzzy techniques. Besides, developing a collaborative multi-
agent system (MAS) to support the sales and operations 
planning coordination among related departments may be 
another worthwhile research topic for the future. 
REFERENCES 
無研發成果推廣資料 
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100%  
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
