2Abstract
Block copolymers could self-assemble into supramolecular materials with hierarchical
morphologies through the composition、 physical bonding or hydrophobic/hydrophilic interaction.
In this project, molecular architecture effects on morphology and properties of the coil-coil or
rod-coil block copolymers are explored. In the first year of the proposed project, star (heteroarm or
blockarm) poly(styrene)-block- (2-vinylpyridine) (PS-b-P2VP) or
poly(styrene)-block-(4-vinylpyridine) (PS-b-P4VP) with various segment length, ratio or arm
number were synthesized and compared with their linear analogs. Such copolymers with
amphiphilic molecule dodecylbenzenesulfonic acid (DBSA) could form structure-within structure
supramolecular materials. The experimental results suggested that the molecular architecture
effects played an important role on the mocristructure and order-disorder transition temperature.
In the second year of the proposed project, the morphologies of different architectures (Linear
vs. Hetero-arm star) PS-b-P4VP were characterized in dilute solution. The experimental results
showed that various morphologies including spheres, cylinders, vesicles, large compound vesicles
(LCVs) and large compound micelles (LCMs) were observed by varying the solvent quality arm
length. Besides, hetero-arm star copolymer was found to have the lower aggregation number than
linear counterparts by increasing the poor solvent quality. Fluorene based rod-coil copolymers with
various coil moiety and rod-coil ratio were synthesized and characterized,
including(poly(N-isopropylacrylamide)(PNIPAA), poly(acrylic acid)(PAA), poly((ethyleneglycol
methylether methacrylate)(PPEGMA), poly-(3(tripropoxysilyl) propyl methacrylate) (PPOPS) ....
The experimental results showed that the surface structures and photophysical properties of PPOPS
polymer brushes could be manipulated by solvent quality, grafting density, and rod-coil block ratio.
Various morphologies, including lamellar, spheres, large compound micelles, vesicles, cylinders,
inverted spheres and cylinders, were observed by varying the coil length and the selective solvent
content. Such morphological transformations resulted in the significant variations of optical
absorption or fluorescence characteristics, which could be used for sensory applications. For
example, fluorene containing-PNIPAA could be used as a biosensor because the fluorescence
intensity varied with the DNA concentration. The above results has been published in Langmuir,
Macromol. Rapid Commun .(2 papers), J. Polym. Sci. Polym. Sci., Polymer, and Macromolecules.
Keywords: polymer architecture、living polymerization、Rod-coil block copolymer, morphology、
optoelectronic properties
4四、研究成果與討論
1. Architecture effects on the Morphologies of PS-b-P4VP in dilute solutions
In this study, hetero-arm star polystyrene-b-poly(4vinylpryridine) (PSn-P4VPn) and linear
counterparts were synthesized by sequential anionic polymerization and their morphologies in
dilute solutions were studied. Although micellization of star-shape copolymers has been intensively
studied in different selective solvent, aggregated behavior and related morphological transition in
mixed solvent are rarely explored. In this study, multiple morphologies of heteroarm star
PSn-P4VPn were observed by varying solvent quality and compared with their linear with analogs.
Two different arm numbers of PSn-P4VPn with similar composition and degree of polymerization
were synthesized to explore the architecture effects. The morphologies of copolymers were
investigated by TEM and dynamic and static light scattering in dilute solutions of water and DMF
mixtures. Note that DMF is common solvent for both blocks and water is selective solvent for the
P4VP blocks as pH is below 5.0. The experimental results suggested the importance of polymer
architecture on the micellar morphologies in dilute solutions.
1-1 Experimental
Material
The block copolymers used in this report were synthesized by the sequential anionic living
polymerization. Solvent and monomers required in the reaction are purified before synthesis. The
reaction was carried out at -78℃. In the first, the PS precursors were prepared by using
sec-Butyllithium (sec-BuLi) as initiator, and then second monomer, 4-vinylpyridine (4VP), was
added to the reaction to polymerize the diblock copolymers. However, synthesis of hetero-arm star
PSn-P4VPn has additional step before adding 4VP (Figure 1-1). Small amount of divinyl-benzene
(DVB) was introduced after completely consumption of styrene. In this step a living PSn star
copolymers were obtained by bearing a number of active sites within its cores. Then, P4VP can be
grown from cores after adding 4VP to the reaction mixture. Finally, the reaction was deactivated by
methanol, precipitated in hexane, and then filtered out to obtain the product.(Table 1-1)
Sample Preparation
Sample solutions of PS-b-P4VP were prepared by first dissolving the copolymers in N,
N-dimethylformamide (DMF) which is common solvent for both blocks, with an initial polymer
6aggregate has to adapt another geometry to relax the stretching, whereby the interfacial area is
smaller and core-chain stretching is reduced. In another words, as the morphology changes from
spheres to cylinders, to vesicles, both values of the degree of stretching for core blocks and
interfacial area per chain reduce. Hence, we observe the above morphological transformation
induced by varying water content. The DLS results also reveal the tendency of increasing micellar
radius with adding water content.
LCVs in Figure 1-2E are of special interest for the application of drug delivery. The TEM
images show the uniformity and the equality of the thickness of both inside and outside walls of the
compound vesicles. It is assumed that LCVs may be formed from undergoing secondary
aggregation of individual vesicles. It indicates that the individual vesicles formed first and then
associated into large compound vesicles in order to minimizing surface free energy, called kinetic
controlled morphology. Consequently, morphological transformation can also be turned from
spheres to cylinders, and then to vesicles for star-shape copolymers and the aggregated morphology
transition mechanism proposed is illustrated in Figure 1-3.
Architecture Effect on Morphological Transformation
Linear PS-b-P4VP was also prepared in our study in order to investigate architecture effect on
micellar behavior by keeping the compositions of linear and star copolymers similar and having
nearly the same block length as those of the star arms (L1 vs.H2). It has been found previously that
size growth of micelles is the driving force of morphological transition due to energy concepts. The
representative plot for the hydrodynamic diameter (Dh) determination is illustrated in Figure 1-4,
which is investigated by DLS again. According to the results, critical water contents for
micellization of two copolymers are located between 2.8 and 5.7 wt% on account of Dh increasing
sharply from the unimers. In addition, the Dh of L1 is a little larger than H2 for whole points and
having 1.4 times of slope to H2 for Rh as a function of water content. From the literatures,
Tsitsilianis et al. had published that the Rh dependence for heteroarm star PS6-P2VP6 in toluene,
good solvent for PS, can be presented as Rh ~Nagg1/3NP2VP1/3, where Nagg and NP2VP denote
aggregation number of polymer chains within micelles and repeat units of P2VP of block
copolymers, respectively. Other examples published by Foster as well shown a scaling relation Rh
~Nagg1/4NP4VP1/2 for linear PS-b-P4VP in toluene. There are numerous examples to illustrate similar
81-1 Conclusions
Variation of micellar morphology of hetero-arm PS4-P4VP4 in different solvent quality was
investigated. Various morphologies including spheres, cylinders, vesicles and large compound
vesicles (LCVs) were observed when the poor solvent of water for the PS blocks was increased.
Large compound micelles (LCMs) were also observed in the shortest soluble block length. For
micelles the Rh and the tendency of raising Rh with adding water were both found to be larger in the
case of the heteroarm star copolymers than those of linear analogs by DLS. SLS results further
verify the relationships between Nagg and solvent quality in two kinds of architectures. The
experimental results suggest that molecular architecture effect plays an important factor on micellar
morphologies.
2. Synthesis and Characterization of rod-coil PF-b-PPEGMA-b-PPOPS copolymers
In this study, a joint theoretical and experimental investigation of conjugated rod-coil block
copolymer brushes is reported. The theoretical analysis of the rod-coil block copolymer brushes by
DPD was seldom explored. The effects of solvent stimuli and grafting density of polymer brushes
on the surface structures by DPD were investigated. The multifunctional amphiphilic triblock
copolymer, poly-[2,7-(9,9-di-n-hexylfluorene)]-b-poly-[poly(ethylene glycol) methyl ether
methacrylate]-b-poly-[3-(tripropoxysilyl)propyl methacrylate] (PF-b-PPEGMA-b-PPOPS), were
synthesized. The block copolymers were assembled onto a glass substrate with the silanol groups of
PPOPS blocks anchored on the surface. The surface structures and photophysical properties of the
polymer brushes were investigated. The present study demonstrates how the surface structures and
photophysical properties of rod-coil block copolymer brushes response to environmental stimuli.
2-1 Theoretical Methodology
The polymer model and simulation based on dissipative particle dynamics (DPD).3 are described as
follows. In our system (volume V = Lx × Ly × Lz = 30 × 30 × 20 with N particles, and the total
number density ρ = N/V = 3), the polymer brush is modeled as a copolymer with sections of rod 
and coil blocks. The end-beads of the coil blocks are attached to an impenetrable surface at z =0.
The lengths of the rod and coil blocks are represented by nA and nB, and fixed at 5 and 20 (i.e. nA=5,
nB=20), respectively. The total number of particles in the system is N = NS + NP(nA + nB), where NS
10
Polymer Synthesis
Polyfluorene macroinitiator, -{4-[2-(2-bromo-2-methyl-propoyloxy) -methyl] phenyl}
--bromo-poly[2,7-(9,9-dihexylfluorene)] (4), was synthesized as described below: First,
-[4-(2-Hydroxylethyl)phenyl] --bromo-2,7- (9,9-dihexylfluorene) (3) was synthesized according
to the literature. Then, it was reacted with 2-bromoisobutyryl bromide to obtain the 4. The
amphiphilic triblock copolymers of PF-b-PPEGMA-b-PPOPS were prepared by atom transfer
radical polymerization (ATRP), as shown in Figure 2-1.
Self-Assembly of Triblock Copolymers on Oxidized Surfaces and Solvent Stimuli
The polymer brushes were prepared by using a new surface-reactive method developed by Thomas
et al. In order to investigate the responses corresponding to environmental stimuli, the polymer
brushes were immersed into either toluene (good solvent of both the PPEGMA block and the PF
block) or methanol (good solvent of PPEGMA block but non-solvent for PF block) for 30 minutes
at room temperature and then dried under a flow of clean air before characterization.
2-3 Results and Discussion
Theoretical Investigation on the Surface Structures of Rod-Coil Block Copolymer Brushes
Figure 2-2 represents the surface structures of rod-coil block copolymer brushes in the good
solvent and poor solvent for rod blocks. The yellow and red spheres correspond to the particles in
the rod and coil blocks, respectively. The blue spheres are the anchoring points of the rod-coil
copolymers on the surface. For the polymer brushes immersed in common solvent (Figure 2-2(a)),
the rod blocks are well-dispersed on the surface due to the good compatibility between the rod
blocks and the solvents. However, aggregative domains of the rod blocks are observed in Figure
2-2(b). The incompatibility between the rod blocks and the solvent particles drives the rod blocks
into forming aggregates to reduce the contacts between rod blocks and solvents.
Figure 2-3 shows the surface structures of the rod-coil block copolymer brushes with grafting
density of 0.1~0.9 in the poor solvent for the rod blocks. The surface structures show no
distinguished variation with different grafting densities if the polymer brushes are in the good
solvents for both the rod and coil blocks. The only difference is the surface coverage. Nevertheless,
the surface structures are greatly affected by the grafting density if the polymer brushes are
12
blocks aggregate and possibly to form excimers in the polymer brushes.9 Therefore, the
fluorescence results are in good accordance with the AFM studies as described above.
2-4 Conclusions
The simulated surface structures by DPD method showed that the aggregation of the rod blocks
was triggered by their poor solvents and the conformation of the aggregation was affected by the
grafting density of the polymer brushes. For the justification of our theoretical model, a new
rod-coil block copolymer, PF-b-PPEGMA-b-PPOPS, and its corresponding polymer brushes were
synthesized by the grafting-to method. The experimentally observed surface effects of solvent
stimuli and grafting density on the surface structure were in a good agreement with the theoretical
results. The photophysical characteristics of the polymer brushes were also in consistence with their
surface structures. The present study demonstrates that the surface structures and photophysical
properties of rod-coil block polymer brushes could be manipulated by solvent quality and grafting
densities.
3. Synthesis and Characterization of rod-coil PF-PAA copolymers
In this study, synthesis, morphology, and photophysical properties of rod-coil block copolymers
poly[2,7-(9,9-dihexylfluorene)]-block-poly(acrylic acid) (PF-b-PAA) with three different coil
lengths are reported. The chemical structures of the studied polymers are shown in Figure 3-1. The
morphologies of PF-b-PAA were investigated in different mixed solvents and correlated with the
coil length and the selective solvent content. It is first time to observe fluorene-based rod-coil block
copolymers with various morphologies of lamellar, sphere, large compound micelle, cylinder, and
vesicle, etc, in dilute solution as far as we know. Moreover, the optical absorption and
photoluminescence properties of the PF-b-PAA were used to understand the
aggregation-inducedπ–πstacking in dilute solution.
3-1 Experimental
Materials
Polyfluorene macroinitiator, (PF-Br), was synthesized according to the literature. Then,
(PF-b-PtBA) and PF-b-PTMSPMA was synthesized from PF-Br by atom transfer radical
polymerization. The tert-butyl esters of PF-b-PtBA were cleaved via reaction with trifluoroacetic
14
because the swelling of the inner PAA core is enhanced with increasing methanol content and leads
to an increased interfacial area for cylinder formation. As the methanol content is further increased
to more than 25 vol% of Figure 3-3 (c) to 3-3(e), the solubility of PAA chains is enhanced and
results in aggregates with the PAA corona and the PF inner core. In addition, a significant
morphology transformation from inverted cylinder to spherical vesicles and eventually nanorods
with increasing methanol content is observed in Figure 3-3(c)-3-3(e). The nanorods with dark core
and bright corona are contrary to the inverted cylinder shown in Figure 3-3(b). The cylindrical
structure of these micelles in Figure 3-3(d)-3-3(e) might be partly explained by the more
cone-shaped conformation of the long chain-based rod-coil molecules and a second driving force
might be strong π–πinteractions among aromatic segments down the long axis of the rods. The
morphological transformation of the PF7-b-PAA50 and PF7-b-PAA70 driven by the selective solvent
are summarized in Figure 3-4.
Photophysical Properties
Figure 3-5 shows the optical absorption spectra and photoluminescence (PL) spectra of
PF7-b-PAA70 in dilute solution of DCM and methanol with methanol contents ranging from 0 to 90
vol%. The absorption peak maximum due to the π–π * transition of the PF block shifts from 374
to 350 nm as the methanol content increased from 0 to 90 vol%. This blue shift suggests the
reduction of the effective conjugated lengths since the PF block becomes more non-planar on
account of the aggregates formation by its poor solvent of methanol. It could be explained by the
molecular exciton model, assuming H-type aggregation formed by a parallel orientation of PF
segments. The photoluminescence spectra of the aggregates also exhibited dramatic changes, as
shown in Figure 3-5. There are two major emissions at 415 and 435 nm for the PF7-b-PAA70 in
pure DCM solution. As the methanol content increased to 90 vol%, the emission peak at 415 nm is
blue-shifted to 407 nm while that at 435 nm shifted to 426 nm. Such peak shifting is a
consequence of interchain π–π interaction between parallel PF blocks resulted from aggregation
and accompanied by strong fluorescence quenching with the quantum efficiency (f ) decreased
from 0.88 to 0.27 (see insert of Figure 3-5(b)). The f decreased with increasing the methanol
content further indicates the H-type aggregation formation of the PF block.
16
4-2 Results and Discussion
Figure 4-3 shows the UV–vis absorption and fluorescence emission spectra of the copolymers,
P1 and P2, in aqueous solutions. The Peak wavelength (kmax) on the absorption spectrum of P2
(347 nm) that arose from the fluorene moiety has a 12-nm redshift in comparison with that of P1
(335 nm). The fluorescence spectra of P1 and P2 are also quite different. P2 shows a sky blue
emission at kmax =460 nm with a low quantum yield of 0.18, whereas P1 has a pure blue emission
at 390 nm with a high quantum yield of 0.77. These results suggest a significant variation in the
photophysical properties by the quaternization of the amine in the fluorene moiety. The more rigid
chain conformation of the P2 electrolyte, compared with that of the neutral precursor P1, might be
used to explain these results, which are similar to those of conjugated fluorene-based
polyelectrolytes reported in the literature. The LCST characteristics of P1 were examined by the
variation of the optical transmittance spectra with the temperature. Figure 4-4 shows the optical
transmittance of P1 in an aqueous solution at 550 nm heated from room temperature to 40℃. The
transmittance slope changes dramatically around 31.5 8C, which is very close to the LCST (32℃)
of pristine PNIPAA polymers. This suggests that the incorporation of the fluorescent moiety into
the polymers does not change the hydrophobicity/hydrophilicity significantly near the PNIPAA
polymer main chain.
Figure 4-5 shows the fluorescence emission spectra of P1 in water solutions with different pH
values ranging from 5 to 11. In each pH buffer solution, the temperature-controlled spectra were
collected from 22 to 40℃. As pH =7, the fluorescent spectra show a similar fluorene feature, which
is invariant with the pH and temperature, as demonstrated by the typical example of pH 5 in Figure
4-5(a). However, at pH > 7, a broad and featureless aggregation emission appears below 32 .℃ and
results in the redshift of the emission spectra, as demonstrated by the typical example of pH=9 in
Figure 4-5(b). These broad and featureless aggregations dissociated when the solutions were heated
to 40.8℃, and the fluorene features appear in spectrum 6 of Figure 4-5(b). Figure 4-5(c) exhibits
the variation of the normalized fluorescence intensity (IT/I10 8C, where IT is the fluorescence
intensity at temperature T and I108C is the fluorescence intensity at 10℃) at 388 nm at pH values
of 5, 7, and 9 and at temperatures ranging from 22 to 40℃. It shows that the emission intensity of
P1 at a basic condition of pH 9 is significantly enhanced when the temperature is higher than 32 ℃,
which suggest the important role of the LCST transition. Figure 4-6 illustrates a possible
18
The results demonstrate the sensing ability of the water-soluble, fluorene-containing copolymers,
although the fluorine moiety is just a dimer. This result may provide important information for the
further design of the functional polymer for DNA sensors.
4-3. Conclusions
A novel multifunctional polymer (P1) showing both pH and temperature sensitivity was
successfully synthesized through the copolymerization of NIPAA with a new monomer having a
fluorine dimer as the side group. The protonation of the amino groups on the fluorene moiety under
an acidic condition improved its solubility in water. Thus, no aggregation of the fluorene moiety
was observed, and the fluorescence property of P1 was not affected by the LCST transition.
However, polymer chain aggregation occurred under the basic condition because of the
hydrophobic characteristic of the fluorene moiety and resulted in fluorescence quenching. Such
aggregation could be resolved at a high temperature above LCST. This study may provide a new
methodology for the molecular design of new environmentally (pH and temperature) stimulated
functional polymers. Furthermore, after the amino groups were quaternized, the obtained polymer
(P2) could be used as a biosensor because the fluorescence intensity
varied with the DNA concentration.
五.參考文獻 (選列)
1. Surin, M.; Marsitzky, D.; Grimsdale, A. C.; Müllen, K.; Lazzaroni, R.; Leclère,P.; Adv. Funct.
Mater. 2004, 14, 708.
2. Park, J. W.; Thomas, E. L. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2002, 124, 514.
3. Weinfurtner, K. H.; Fujikawa, H.; Tokito, S.; Taga, Y. Appl. Phys. Lett. 2000, 76, 2502.
4.Antonietti, M.; Förster, S. Adv. Mater. 2003, 15, 6243.
5.Hoeben, F. J. M.; Jonkhijm, P.; Meijer, E. W.; Schenning, A. P. H. J. Chem. Rev. 2005, 105, 1491.
6.Wang, D.; Moses, D.; Bazan, G. C.; Heeger, A. J.; Lal, J. J Macromol Sci Pure Appl Chem. 2001,
38, 1175–1189.
7. Huang, F.; Hou, L.; Shen, H.; Yang, R.; Hou, Q.; Cao, Y. J .Polym Sci Part A: Polym Chem,
2006, 44, 2521–2532.
8. Uchiyam, S.; Matsumura, Y.; de Silva, A. P.; Iwai, K. Anal Chem, 2003, 75, 5926–5935.
9. Bronich, T. K.; Nguyen, H. K.; Eisenberg, A.; Kabanov, A. V. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2000, 122,
20
八、附表及圖
Table 1-1. Characterization data of PS-b-P4VP (L1) and PS4-P4VP4 (H1~H4) block copolymers
Samplea Mwb
overall
Mwc
PS-arm
Mwd
P4VP-arm
Mw/Mn Ne fP4VPf
H1 122200 18200 10900 1.18 8.1 0.37
H2 97900 18100 5800 1.17 8.3 0.24
H3 90100 18600 2600 1.18 8.0 0.12
H4 85300 18000 1400 1.10 8.1 0.07
L1 21900 17500 5500 1.06 - 0.24
Figure 1-1 Synthesis of hetero-arm star PS-b-P4VP.
22
Figure 1-3. Schematic illustration of morphological transformation of PS4-P4VP4 induced by
varying water content.
Figure 1-4. Variation of the hydrodynamic diameter as a function of the water content in
water/DMF mixed solvent detected by DLS.
24
Figure 2-2. Simulated surface structures of rod-coil block copolymer brushes with the parameters
of ρS= 0.7, nA = 5, nB =20, aBS = 26,and aAB= 40: (a) top view (for aAS = 26); (b) side view (for
aAS = 26); (c) top view (for aAS＝40); and (d) side view (for aAS= 40).The yellow and red spheres
correspond to the rod and coil blocks, respectively. The blue spheres are the anchoring points of the
copolymers on the surface. The system volume is set to be V=Lx×Ly×Lz ) 30×30×20.
Figure 2-3. Top views of the surface structures of rod-coil block copolymer brushes. (a) ρS = 0.1; (b)
ρS = 0.5; (c) ρS = 0.7; (c) ρS = 0.9.
26
Figure 3-1. Chemical structure of PF-b-PAA rod-coil diblock copolymers
Figure 3-2. TEM images of PF7-b-PAA26 [(a) to (c)] and PF7-b-PAA50 [(d) to (f)] aggregates in
dilute solution of DCM and methanol with methanol contents of (a), (d): 10 vol %; (b), (e): 25 vol
%; and (c), (f): 50 vol %, respectively.
28
Figure 3-4. Schematic of the morphological transformation of PF7-b-PAA50 and PF7-b-PAA70.
Figure 3-5. Optical absorption and photoluminescence spectra of PF7-b-PAA70. The inset shows
the variation of PL quantum efficiency with methanol content.
30
Figure 4-2. Preparation of NIPAA copolymers P1 and P2.
Figure 4-3. UV–vis absorption and fluorescence spectra of P1 and P2 in water. The excitation
wavelength at 340 nm is the absorption maximum.
32
Figure 4-5. (a,b) Variation of the fluorescence intensity of copolymer P1 in aqueous solutions
with the temperatures and pH values [(a) pH 5 and (b) pH 9] and (c) variation of the normalized
fluorescence intensity (IT/I10 8℃) at 388 nm for pH 5, pH 7, and pH 9. The excitation wavelength
was 340 nm.
