 2
於複雜姓更高的壓縮機特性測試機台之研發，將更能掌握其關鍵技術。 
 
人才培育成果說明： 
參與學生：碩士生一名 
合作企業：工程師三名 
 
技術研發成果說明： 
1. 車用空調系統主要部件之性能匹配設計分析方法。 
2. 車用空調壓縮機耐久性測試機台之研製技術。 
3. 車用空調系統之熱力計算評估模組。 
 
技術特點說明： 
1. 提供車用空調壓縮機耐久性測試之平台，一方面檢測固定容積式壓
縮機之可靠性，另一方面所獲得的數據與測試結果可作為壓縮機研
究、開發、改進的基礎。 
2. 維護與驗證車用空調壓縮機出廠前的品質，增進產品附加價值。 
3. 以個人電腦與網際網路為基礎進行控制軟體之開發，滿足未來維護
與監控的需求。 
4. 經由此測試機台研製經驗，對於複雜姓更高的壓縮機特性測試機台
之研發，將更能掌握其關鍵技術。 
 
可利用之產業及可開發之產品：車用空調系統製造業、汽機車零件製造業 
可開發之產品：車用空調壓縮機（往復式、迴轉式、可變容積式壓縮機） 
 
推廣及運用的價值： 
1. 所開發之測試機台，不僅可維護與驗證車用空調壓縮機出廠前的品
質，提昇產品競爭力；另一方面，所建立的測試報告可增進產品附
加價值。 
2. 經由對汽車空調壓縮機耐久性的試驗，可以握其設計之關鍵技術，
加快產品開發之速度。 
 4
match the compressor capacity to the cooling 
requirements. In the majority of automotive 
air conditioning systems, the compressor 
cycles on and off to meet the cooling load of 
the evaporator continuously. To improve 
vehicle fuel economy and to reduce 
environmental damage like ozone depletion 
and global warming, higher efficiency and 
optimization of each component are required. 
For this reason, the evaluation of the 
performance of transport refrigeration or A/C 
units has been subjected to numerous studies. 
Tassou and Qureshi [1] presented the 
results of investigations regarding the 
performance of positive-displacement 
refrigeration compressors for variable-speed 
capacity control system. The compressors 
were tested under constant condenser 
pressures and floating head-pressures 
operating conditions. Khan and Zubair [2] 
developed a property-dependent finite-time 
thermodynamic model of a simple 
reciprocating refrigeration system, which 
simulated performance of actual systems. 
The characteristic performance curves are 
defined by the inverse coefficient of 
performance (1/COP) and inverse cooling 
capacity (1 evapQ ) of the system. Using the 
actual data of a simple vapor-compression 
system, performance curves of the system 
were obtained. Lee and Yoo [3] analyzed the 
performances of a laminated type evaporator 
and a parallel flow type condenser, and 
developed a performance simulation program 
of the integrated automobile air conditioning 
system. Effects of condenser size and 
refrigerant charge on the system performance 
were evaluated through the simulation 
program. Ratts and Brown [4] identified and 
quantified individual losses in an automotive 
vapor-compression refrigeration system 
during compressor cycling. The second law 
of thermodynamics, non-dimensional entropy 
generation, was used to quantify the 
thermodynamic losses of the refrigeration 
system’s individual component under steady 
driving conditions (idle, 48.3 kph, and 96.6 
kph). In their continuative study [5] 
investigated the effects of the refrigerant 
charge level on the distribution of the 
system’s losses at idle conditions. The 
second law analysis was carried out for 
various refrigerant charge levels. Jabardo et 
al. [6] developed a steady state computer 
simulation model for refrigeration circuits of 
automobile air conditioning systems. An 
experimental bench made up of original 
components from the air conditioning system 
of a compact passenger vehicle has been 
established in order to verify the results from 
the simulation model. Effects of the 
refrigerant inventory were evaluated 
experimentally as well. Brown et al. [7] 
evaluated performance merits of CO2 and 
R-134a automotive air conditioning systems 
using semi-theoretical cycle models. In this 
study they provided a comparative evaluation 
of the COPs between R-134a and CO2 
systems using NIST’s semi-theoretical vapor 
compression model, CYCLE-11.UA, and 
derived from it the transcritical cycle model, 
CYCLE-11.UA-CO2. The analysis showed 
R-134a has a better COP than that of CO2 
with the COP disparity being dependent on 
compressor speed and ambient temperature. 
The major objective of this project is to 
provide a compressor endurance test bench 
for vehicle climate control design engineers 
to perform various compressor tests under 
extreme conditions. The experimental bench 
is designed in accordance with ISO Standard 
917 and ASHRAE Standard 23. In order to 
simulate the under hood conditions, the 
system offers the environmentally controlled 
compressor chamber. These systems can be 
provided with semi-automatic controls (PID 
control loops) with connections data logs or 
with fully automated data acquisition and 
control systems. 
 
3. DESCRIPTION OF THE 
EXPERIMENTAL BENCH 
 
The compressor durability testing bench is 
designed in accordance with ISO Standard 
917 and ASHRAE Standard 23. The 
developed system is equipped with a heat 
exchanger type evaporator calorimeter and a 
water-cooled condenser to provide accurate 
determination of compressor capacity. The 
compressor was powered by an electrical 
 6
mfq : mass flow rate of refrigerant (kg/s) 
mlq : mass flow rate of liquid (kg/s) 
gaV : actual specific volume of refrigerant 
vapor entering compressor (m3/kg) 
glV : specific volume of refrigerant vapor at 
the suction condition corresponding to the 
specific basic test conditions (m3/kg) 
1fh : specific enthalpy of refrigerant liquid at 
the temperature of saturation corresponding 
to compressor discharge pressure specified in 
the specific basic test conditions (J/kg) 
2fh : specific enthalpy of refrigerant liquid 
entering expansion valve (J/kg) 
1gh : specific enthalpy of refrigerant entering 
the compressor at the specific basic test 
conditions (J/kg) 
2gh : specific enthalpy of evaporated 
refrigerant leaving calorimeter (J/kg) 
1t : inlet temperature( C° ) 
2t : outlet temperature( C° ) 
at : average ambient temperature ( C° ) 
hΦ : electrical input to the heater (W) 
iΦ : heat input to the calorimeter (W) 
0Φ : Refrigerating capacity of the compressor 
(W) 
 
4.2 Water-Cooled Condenser  
 
The water-cooled condenser (confirming 
test) which forms a part of the equipment 
used with the compressor being tested shall 
be equipped to act as a calorimeter by the 
provision of instruments for measuring 
temperatures, pressures and cooling water 
flow. 
 
The heat leakage factor is calculated from the 
formula, 
ar
i
tt
F −
Φ=1  (4) 
The mass flow rate of the refrigerant is given 
by the formula, 
33
112 )()(
fg
armc
mf hh
ttFqttcq −
−+−=  (5) 
The refrigerating capacity, adjusted to the 
specified basic test conditions, is given by 
the formula, 
)( 110 fg
gl
ga
mf hhV
V
q −=Φ  (6) 
where 
mcq : mass flow rate of cooling water (kg/s) 
3fh : specific enthalpy of refrigerant liquid 
leaving condenser(J/kg) 
3gh : specific enthalpy of refrigerant vapor 
entering the condenser (J/kg) 
rt : average temperature of saturation of 
refrigerant ( C° ) 
 
5. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
 
The parametric analysis of results is 
performed based on values of the prescribed 
parameters varying in the ranges shown in 
Table 1. Table 2 shows the results of 
measured parameters in the experimental 
bench. The variation of pressures and 
temperatures in the inlet and exit of the tested 
compressor are shown in Fig. 2. The 
compressor speed is set to 4000 rpm. The 
discharge pressure ( dP ) is set to 1.4Mpa (g) 
and suction pressure ( sP ) is set to 0.16Mpa 
(g). The pressures and temperatures in the 
inlet and exit of the tested compressor keep 
stable under this compressor speed during the 
time period. 
 
6. CONCLUSIONS 
 
In this project, the compressor durability 
testing bench is designed in accordance with 
ISO Standard 917 and ASHRAE Standard 23. 
In order to simulate the under hood 
conditions, the system offers the 
environmentally controlled compressor 
chamber. The temperatures and pressures, 
and refrigerant liquid flow rate are measured 
in the experimental bench. The experimental 
bench is designed for continuous duty over 
long time periods to allow endurance testing  
at extreme conditions. The effects of 
compressor speed on system performance 
have been experimentally evaluated. 
 
