 I 
 
摘要 
本研究主要目的在於研究一結合支撐向量機與結構相似特性的快速之碎形
影像壓縮技術。針對傳統碎形影像編碼中編碼時間過長的問題，提出了一種支撐
向量機(Support Vector Machine, SVM)與結構相似(Structure Similarity, SSIM)指標
相結合的快速分形編碼方法。使用支撐向量機將圖像塊的內部細節資訊分佈狀況
作為分類標準對定義域塊庫進行分類，SSIM 指標分別從亮度、對比度和結構三
個方面測量 Range Block 與 Domain Block 之間的相似程度。將透過 SVM 方法與
SSIM 指標結合，可以加快分類速度、減少匹配運算時間，藉由 SSIM 特性，找
出更快速、更高品質的碎形影像壓縮編碼演算法。實驗數據中顯示，此演算法提
升編碼速度 15 倍，並可獲得較佳的視覺效果。 
關鍵詞：碎形影像壓縮、結構相似、支撐向量機  
   
  
Support Vector Machine for Fast Fractal Image
Compression Base on Structure Similarity
C. M. Kung
Dept. of Information Technology and Communication, Shih Chien University Kaohsiung Campus
Kaohsiung, Taiwan, ROC.
Email: alex@mail.kh.usc.edu.tw
S. T. Chao
Dept. of Engineering and Management of Advanced Technology, Chang-Jung Christian University
Tainan, Taiwan, ROC.
Email: james@cvig.org
Abstract— Fractal image compression is promising both
theoretically and practically. The encoding speed of the
traditional full search method is a key factor rendering
the fractal image compression unsuitable for real-time
application. The primary objective of this paper is to
investigate the comprehensive coverage of the principles and
techniques of fractal image compression, and describes the
implementation of a pre-processing strategy that can reduce
the full searching domain blocks by training the Support
Vector Machine which could recognized the self-similar
pattern feature to enhance the domain block searching
efficiency. In this paper, the novel image quality index
(Structure Similarity, SSIM) and block property classifier
based on SVM employed for the fractal image compression
is investigated. Experimental results show that the scheme
speeds up the encoder 15 times faster and the visual effect
is better in comparison to the full search method.
Index Terms— Fractal Image Coding, Structure Similarity,
SSIM, SVM.
I. I
Fractal image compression is time consuming in the
encoding process. The time is essentially spent on the
search for the best-match block in a large domain pool.
In this research, the novel image index is utilized to
reduce the compute complexity. With this technique, the
visual effect is better than that of the full search method
while the quality of the retrieved image is almost the
same. Fractal image compression was original proposed
by Barnsley [1] [2] [3] and first realized by Jacquin
in 1990 [4]. The fundamental hypothesis of the fractal
image compression is based on the Partitioned Iteration
Function System (PIFS) which employs the self-similarity
property of the image to achieve the objective of image
compression. In order to encode an image according
to the self-similarity property, the most similar domain
block in a large domain pool of each block has to be
found. For the baseline method, the encoding process is
time consuming since a large amount of computations
of similarity measurement are required to find the best
match.
This work was supported by National Science Council of Taiwan
grants NSC 97-2218-E158-001, NSC 97-2815-C-158-002-E.
Meanwhile, in order to achieve the global optimization,
global offsets have to be recorded, which increase the
storage spaces. Therefore, focal aims of fractal image
compression are to speed up the encoding speed and to
increase the compression ratio.
In 1994, the Y. Fisher’s classification method [5], a
given image block was divided into the four quadrants.
For each quadrant, the average and the variance were
computed. According to certain combination of these
values, 72 classes were constructed. This method reduced
the searching space efficiently. However, it required large
amount of computations and moreover, the arrangement
of these 72 classes was complicated. In 2000, Z. Wang,
D. Zhang, and Y. Yu [6], four types of range block was
defined base on the edge of the decoded image. They
used a hybrid type of coding mechanism to achieve higher
compression ratio while maintaining a reasonable image
quality. Their method does provide speedup ratio of 1.6
to 5 times, however, it still requires the same amount of
storage space as that of the baseline method. Truong et al.
[7] [8] proposed Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT) inter
product based algorithm which removes all of the redun-
dant calculations to achieve a faster encoding process. In
2004, Wang [9] proposed the structural similarity (SSIM)
index is a novel method for measuring the similarity
between two images. The SSIM index can be viewed as
a quality measure of one of the images being compared,
provided the other image is regarded as of perfect quality.
The authors [10] proposed the high performance motion
estimation use the edge-type of image blocks for motion
detection and proposed fractal image compress using
visual-based structure similarity index [11] in 2008.
Statistical learning techniques based on risk mini-
mization such as Support Vector Machine (SVM) are
discovered to be powerful classification schemes. In the
SVM research literatures, the SVM performance is better
than the ANN in classification and regression problems
[12], [13], [14]. Compared with ANN, SVM has several
advantages:
1) SVM is an implementation of Structural Risk Min-
imization (SRM) [15] techniques which minimize
the generalization error, that is, true error on unseen
xxx JOURNAL OF MULTIMEDIA, VOL. 4, NO. x, XXX 2009, IN PRESS
subject to
∑l
i=1 αiyi = 0 and 0 ≤ αi ≤ C , i = 1, . . . , l
where α = {α1, α2 . . . , αl} is the set of Lagrange multipli-
ers and C is the upper bounds of box constraint [16]. A α
can be found to be the maximum value of W(α) under the
condition of
∑l
i=1 αiyi = 0 and 0 ≤ α ≤ C, i = 1, 2, . . . , l.
This α which maximize value of W(α) denotes α∗. Define
Isv = {i|α∗i > 0, 1 ≤ i ≤ l}. Then one obtains weight vector
w∗ as
w∗ =
l∑
i=1
α∗i yiΦ(xi) =
∑
i∈Isv
α∗i yiΦ(xi) (8)
Choose any α∗k > 0, then
b∗ = yk −
∑
i∈isv
α∗i yiK(xi, xk) (9)
The optimal discriminant function is thus given by
f ∗(x) =
∑
i∈isv
α∗i yiK(xi, xk) + b
∗ (10)
From the Karush-Kuhn-Tuker (KKT) condition [16], for
the training examples that lie within the decision boundary
only, the corresponding multipliers are nonzero. Only
these examples called support vectors which affect the
construction of the hyperplane can be observed. With
the early discussion of SVM theory, the possibility of
SVM in training the non-trivial training set S into the
optimal discriminated equation f ∗(x) can be obtained.
This equation f ∗(x) will be able to classify the untrained
data. This technique can be utilized to make appropriate
decisions in the inspection module in the automated
inspection quality management system.
III. I Q A
Image Quality Assessment in Image Processing plays
an important role, as image processing algorithms and
systems design benchmarks to help assess the best or the
quality of the results. At present more commonly used
by the image quality index for the assessment of Mean
Square Error (MSE) and the Peak Signal to Noise Ratio
(PSNR), respectively, are defined as follows:
MS E =
1
N
N∑
i=1
(xi − yi)2 (11)
PS NR = 10 × log 255
2
MS E
(12)
where N is the size of image, xi and yi are the gray level
of pixel of original image and test image.
However, these common approach, focused on the
image gray value of the mathematical model to quan-
tify the numerical standards, although with an objective
assessment, but not all of the assessment results can meet
the human visual judgement. By Figure 1 can be found in
the Test Signal 1, Test Signal 2 and Original Signal Error
Signal of the MSE results are the same, but the human
visual judgement can be found Test Signal 1 is closer to
Original Signal.
The structural similarity (SSIM) index is a novel
method for measuring the similarity between two images
Figure 1. MSE distortion of the signal different calculation
[11]. The SSIM index can be viewed as a quality measure
of one of the images being compared, provided the other
image is regarded as of perfect quality. The SSIM index
is a full reference metric, in other words, the measuring
of image quality based on an initial uncompressed or
distortion-free image as reference. SSIM is designed to
improve on traditional methods like PSNR and MSE,
which have proved to be inconsistent with human visual
system. SSIM is also commonly used as a method of
testing the quality of various lossy video compression
methods.
Using SSIM index, image and video can be effectively
compared. The system diagram of the proposed quality
assessment system is shown in Figure 2.
Figure 2. Structural Similarity (SSIM) Measurement System
SSIM comprehensive structural similarity of the indi-
cators that the overall quality of the images, including
images of the luminance, contrast and structure, SSIM is
defined as:
S S IM(x, y) = l(x, y)α × c(x, y)β × s(x, y)γ (13)
l(x, y) =
2µxµy + C1
µ2xµ
2
y + C1
(14)
where µx = 1N
∑
xi, σx =
(
1
N−1
∑
(xi − µx)2
) 1
2
c(x, y) =
2σxσy + C2
σ2xσ
2
y + C2
(15)
where µy = 1N
∑
yi, σy =
(
1
N−1
∑
(yi − µy)2
) 1
2
s(x, y) =
σxy + C3
σxσy + C3
(16)
c©2009 ACADEMY PUBLISHER 3
xxx JOURNAL OF MULTIMEDIA, VOL. 4, NO. x, XXX 2009, IN PRESS
Figure 5. Fractal Image Decoding
˦̇˴̅̇
˘́˷
˾ˏˋ
˾ː˃
˾ʾʾ
̀˼́́̈́
̌˸̆
̌˸̆
́̂
́̂
Figure 6. Fractal Image Encoding with MSE
˦̇˴̅̇
˘́˷
˾ˏˋ
˾ː˃
˾ʾʾ
̀˼́́̈́
̌˸̆
̌˸̆
́̂
́̂
Figure 7. Fractal Image Encoding with SSIM
Therefore, the SSIM index has replaced the MSE to
assessment range block and the similarity between the
domain block. Because of similar level indicators are
designed with human visual system and Suitable for
measuring the visual structure of information. Because
the conduct SSIM estimate, already contains luminance,
contract of images.
The coding system demonstrates good coding perfor-
mance and visual effect in fractal image compression as
Table I. As an illustrative example, Table I. demonstrates
TABLE I.
R I U D I Q A
Lena Full Search with MSE Full Search with SSIM
PSNR 28.91 28.93
SSIM 0.984 0.984
Criteria MSE SSIM
Speed Up 1 0.85
the results of the proposed approach in comparison to
the baseline method. Figure 8(a). demonstrate the close-
up of retrieved Lena images using the baseline method
with MSE index and Figure 8(b). demonstrate the close-
up of retrieved Lena images using the baseline method
with SSIM. We can find the visual effect of Figure 8(b).
is better than Figure 8(a).
Figure 8. Close-up of retrieved image
VI. F F I C  SSIM
The workflow of the fast fractal image encode is
depicted in terms of block diagram as Figure 9. As shown
in Figure 9, the fast fractal image encode scheme are
divided into two steps. First, the blocks of domain and
range image are classified use the edge-type of image
blocks property and compare the class indexes to remove
the redundant calculations. At last, the fractal image can
be encoded by the fractal image compress algorithm using
visual-based structure similarity index.
In order to improve the traditional fractal image com-
pression coding in the problem of long time, with a similar
structure (Structure Similarity, SSIM) indicators of fast
fractal coding algorithms base on block property classifier
have been proposed.
The structure similarity is utilized to reduce the com-
puted complexity. SSIM index can accelerate the speed
of classification and keep the image quality. The fractal
c©2009 ACADEMY PUBLISHER 5
xxx JOURNAL OF MULTIMEDIA, VOL. 4, NO. x, XXX 2009, IN PRESS
Figure 11. The Diagram of SVM Base Fast Fratal Image Encode
Figure 12. 2-stage Module
C. Fractal Image Compress Module
Fractal Image Compress Module with a similar struc-
ture (Structure Similarity, SSIM) indicators of fast fractal
coding algorithms base on block property classifier have
been proposed.
The structure similarity is utilized to reduce the com-
puted complexity. SSIM index can accelerate the speed
of classification and keep the image quality.
Therefore, the SSIM index has replaced the MSE to
assessment range block and the similarity between the
domain block. Because of similar level indicators are
designed with human visual system and Suitable for
measuring the visual structure of information. Because
the conduct SSIM estimate, already contains luminance,
contract of images. Therefore, modify full search fractal
coding flowchart as Figure 10, the fast algorithm will
preprocess use the block property classifier scheme and
do not assessment p, q and u.The diagram of fast fractal
image compression encode using SSIM is given in Figure
10.
VIII. E R  E
The proposed visual-based SSIM for fractal image
compress algorithm using edge property is simulated and
verified. The images Lena, Baboon are tested to demon-
strate the improvements on the acceleration rate, and
image quality of the proposed algorithm in comparison to
the baseline method. For a given image of size 256×256,
the coding size for fractal coder is 8 × 8. The software
simulation implemented in C++ is performed on a Core
2 Duo, Windows XP personal computer.
To verify the detection capability of the system, 6
samples are collected, respectively. In order to fairly
sample, the research method of cross validation is utilized.
Each type of samples is split evenly into four groups. The
first 3 groups are selected as training set and the fourth
group as the testing set. The pattern to be forwarded
through the SVM classification scheme is followed but
each time different group is used as testing set while the
other three are training sets.
The speedup ratio is defined as the ratio of the encoding
time of full search scheme over that of scheme under
consideration. The distortion between the original image
and the retrieved image is measured in PSNR.
Table II. demonstrates the performance of proposed
scheme and full search method with different image
quality index. The fractal image encode scheme using
SSIM is faster and higher quality than using MSE. The
results of the proposed approach is 15 times faster than
baseline method while there is only 0.69 dB decay.
IX. C
In this paper, the Structure Similarity and and block
property classifier employed for the fractal image com-
pression is investigated. Experimental results show that
the visual effect is better and the encoding speed is
15 times faster than that of the full search. The SVM
learning scheme is proposed to implement the fractal
image compress system. The advantage of the SVM
learning mechanism is that it provides less complexity as
well as more adaptive structure and is more suitable for
implementing on-line systems. Experimental results have
demonstrated the functionality and the superiority of the
2-stage SVM classification scheme in comparison to the
traditional approaches.
c©2009 ACADEMY PUBLISHER 7
附錄一 
 
9 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                           97 年   12 月 24 日 
報告人姓名 龔志銘 
服務機關名稱 
及職稱 
實踐大學高雄校區 
資訊科技與通訊系助理教授 
會議期間 
及地點 
自 2008 年 12 月 20 日 
至 2008 年 12 月 22 日 
(泰國普吉島) 
國科會核定 
補助文號 
NSC-97-2218-E-158-001 
會議名稱 
（ 中文 ）2008 年電腦理論與工程國際研討會 
（ 英文 ）2008 International Conference on Advanced Computer Theory 
and Engineering (ICACTE 2008) 
發表論文題目 
（ 中文 ）基於區塊特性之快速碎形影像壓縮演算法 
（ 英文 ）Fast Fractal Image Compression Base on Block Property 
報告內容： 
首先，感謝國科會預算支助出國參加國際研討會，才能有機會參與這次的 ICACTE 
2008 研討會。ICACTE 2008 於 2008 年 12 月 20-22 日在泰國普吉島舉行，此系列會議係由
IACSIT 組織舉辦，IEEE 協辦。ICACTE 2008 研討會論文集由 IEEE Xplore 收錄，並由 Ei 
Compendex and Thomson ISI Proceeding (ISTP)檢索。 
此次口頭報告論文題目為”Fast Fractal Image Compression Base on Block Property “，發
表論文主要針對碎形影像壓縮之速度與影像品質改善演算法的研究。這次與會學者來自世
界各國，皆為資訊相關領域專家，討論之熱烈，可想而知。除了會議進行時的討論外，連
中場 Coffee Break 的時間，亦可看到許許多多學者仍不斷針對他們的疑問與作者進行交
流，討論之熱絡，是我參加國內研討會時，並不多見的景象，值得國內學者省思。 
    這一次的國際會議讓我了解到學術是沒有分界的，不會因為你是工程背景就被限制住
只能做實務，學數學的人就只能去發展理論。對於語文的學習，也有了更深一層的體認，
來自不同國家的學者，皆使用共通的語言(英語)來溝通。英語的掌握，對一個學者而言，
更是要去好好面對，並走出國際，跟上潮流。這一次的國際會議，我深覺英語的重要性，
因為各國的學者教授都是利用英文在交談，對一個土博士的我而言，這是可以再加強的地
方。由於英語的聽講表達仍無法隨心所欲，以致於在會場上無法盡情與其他學者溝通暢
談，使人與人之間的討論有了折扣。對於語文(英語)的學習，需持續不間斷，它是溝通的
一個媒介，亦是國際語言。因此，對於英語的掌握，我們必須要再更努力的學習。此行對
Fast Fractal Image Compression Base on Block Property
C. M. Kung, W. S. Yang, C. C. Ku, C. Y. Wang
Dept. of Information Technology and Communication
Shih Chien University Kaohsiung Campus
alex@mail.kh.usc.edu.tw
Abstract
Fractal image compression is promising both theoreti-
cally and practically. The encoding speed of the traditional
full search method is a key factor rendering the fractal im-
age compression unsuitable for real-time application. The
primary objective of this paper is to investigate the compre-
hensive coverage of the principles and techniques of fractal
image compression. In this paper, the novel image quality
index (Structure Similarity,SSIM) and block property clas-
sifer employed for the fractal image compression is inves-
tigated. Experimental results show that the scheme speeds
up the encoder 10 times faster and the visual effect is better
in comparison to the full search method.
1. Introduction
Fractal image compression is time consuming in the en-
coding process. The time is essentially spent on the search
for the best-match block in a large domain pool. In this re-
search, the novel image index is utilized to reduce the com-
pute complexity. With this technique, the visual effect is
better than that of the full search method while the quality
of the retrieved image is almost the same. Fractal image
compression was original proposed by Barnsley [2] [1] [3]
and first realized by Jacquin in 1990 [5]. The fundamen-
tal hypothesis of the fractal image compression is based on
the Partitioned Iteration Function System (PIFS) which em-
ploys the self-similarity property of the image to achieve the
objective of image compression. In order to encode an im-
age according to the self-similarity property, the most sim-
ilar domain block in a large domain pool of each block has
to be found. For the baseline method, the encoding process
is time consuming since a large amount of computations of
similarity measurement are required to find the best match.
In 1994, the Y. Fisher’s classification method [4], a given
image block was divided into the four quadrants. For each
quadrant, the average and the variance were computed. Ac-
cording to certain combination of these values, 72 classes
were constructed. This method reduced the searching space
efficiently. However, it required large amount of computa-
tions and moreover, the arrangement of these 72 classes was
complicated. In 2000, Z. Wang, D. Zhang, and Y. Yu [12],
four types of range block was defined base on the edge
of the decoded image. They used a hybrid type of cod-
ing mechanism to achieve higher compression ratio while
maintaining a reasonable image quality. Their method does
provide speedup ratio of 1.6 to 5 times, however, it still re-
quires the same amount of storage space as that of the base-
line method. Truong et al. [8] [9] proposed Discrete Cosine
Transform (DCT) inter product based algorithm which re-
moves all of the redundant calculations to achieve a faster
encoding process. In 2004, Wang [10] proposed the struc-
tural similarity (SSIM) index is a novel method for mea-
suring the similarity between two images. The SSIM index
can be viewed as a quality measure of one of the images
being compared, provided the other image is regarded as of
perfect quality. The authors [7] proposed the high perfor-
mance motion estimation use the edge-type of image blocks
for motion detection and proposed fractal image compress
using visual-based structure similarty index [6] in 2008.
2 Image Quality Assessment
Image Quality Assessment in Image Processing plays an
important role, as image processing algorithms and systems
design benchmarks to help assess the best or the quality of
the results. At present more commonly used by the im-
age quality index for the assessment of Mean Square Error
(MSE) and the Peak Signal to Noise Ratio (PSNR), respec-
tively, are defined as follows:
MSE =
1
N
N∑
i=1
(xi − yi)2 (1)
PSNR = 10× log 255
2
MSE
(2)
where N is the size of image, xi and yi are the gray level of
pixel of orignal image and test image.
2008 International Conference on Advanced Computer Theory and Engineering
978-0-7695-3489-3/08 $25.00 © 2008 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/ICACTE.2008.195
477
Authorized licensed use limited to: I-Shou University. Downloaded on October 25, 2009 at 11:41 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
ŐųŪŨŪůŢŭġŊŮŢŨŦ ŇŦŵŤũġŢġţŭŰŤŬ }min{ vqpu  !
v
codebook
u
(0,0)
(0,1)
(0,2)
(240,240)
p
q
r
),( yx tt
u
256x256 Lenna image
with 8x8 partition
type of
isometries rĲ ĳ Ĵ ĵ Ķ ķ ĸ Ĺ
ōŰŤŢŵŪŰův
),( yx tt
u: domain block
v: range block
Figure 2. Fractal Image Encoding
Figure 3. Fractal Image Decoding
At last, the fratal image can be encoded by the fractal image
compress algorithm using visual-based structure similarty
index.
4.1 Edge-type Classifier Design
The edge property is specified through an edge-type
classifier. The classifier partitions image blocks into four
classes which are smooth class, horizontal edge class, verti-
cal edge class, and diagonal edge class. In terms of frac-
tal similarity, the underlying idea of such a classifier is
that blocks tend to be similar to blocks of the same type.
The classifier is implemented through two DCT coefficients
which represent the strength of the horizontal and vertical
energy in the block. Let f be a given image block of size
L×L. The DCT of f , denoted by F , is computed from the
formula of DCT. Assume L = 8, we can compute V and H
as
V = |F (1, 0)| =
√
2
8
|
7∑
y=0
7∑
x=0
f(x, y)cos
(2x+ 1)pi
16
|
(11)
ŇŦŵŤũġŢġţŭŰŤŬ
ńŭŢŴŴŪŧŪŦų
ńŰťŦġŃŰŰŬ
ńŭŢŴŴŪŧŪŦų
ńŭŢŴŴġĲĻġŴũŢťŦġţŭŰŤŬ
ńŭŢŴŴġĳĻġũŰųŪŻŰůŵŢŭġŦťŨŦġţŭŰŤŬ
ńŭŢŴŴġĴĻġŷŦųŵŪŤŢŭġŦťŨŦġţŭŰŤŬ
ńŭŢŴŴġĵĻġťŪŢŨŰůŢŭġŦťŨŦġţŭŰŤŬ
ŐųŪŨŪůŢŭġŊŮŢŨŦ
ŇŢŴŵġŔŔŊŎ
ŇŊń
ŇųŢŤŵŢŭġŤŰťŦ
źŦŴ
Figure 4. The Diagram of Fast Fratal Image
Encode
H = |F (0, 1)| =
√
2
8
|
7∑
y=0
7∑
x=0
f(x, y)cos
(2y + 1)pi
16
|
(12)
The term V measures energy variation between the left half
and the right half of f . Therefore, if f has strong ver-
tical edges, V will be significant. Similarly, H reflects
the strength of horizontal edges. The classification is per-
formed according to the magnitudes of V and H . Let Th be
the threshold to determine the smooth class and Td be the
threshold to determine the diagonal class. The block dia-
gram of the DCT-based classifer is given in Figure 5. The
input is an image block f and output is the class index.
4.2 Fast Fractal Image Compression Us-
ing SSIM
Full search fractal image compression used the MSE
(mean-squared error) to assess the similarity between the
domain block and range block, in every range block, from
the domain pool, was the most similar to the domain block.
You need 58081 × 8 = 464648 MSE calculations. There-
fore, the compression method used Baseline encoded im-
ages, will require a total of 1024 × 464648 = 475799522
MSE the huge amount of computation. In addition, calcula-
479
Authorized licensed use limited to: I-Shou University. Downloaded on October 25, 2009 at 11:41 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
