analyze such problem, for example, the finite-difference method and finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) 
method have utilized to calculate the fields and the dispersion curves of guide mode [5]. For the scattering of the 
stack of 1D periodic layer, Peng has employed rigorous mode matching method and cascade of transmission-line 
network method to deal with the 1D grating with irregular shape [6]. In this research, since 2D periodic structure 
could be considered as cascade of 1D periodic layers and uniform layers, we can employ the same method to 
carry out the calculations. The Floquet-type solutions are constructed with the results shown in the form of 
dispersions for an unbound media, while the scattering of plane wave by 2D periodic structure of finite thickness 
is analyzed as a multilayer boundary-value problem to verify the dispersion characteristics. 
The purpose of this article is to provide a theoretical basis for the analysis of 2D periodic structure, so that the 
benchmark results can be established for verifying those obtained from experiments, or obtained by simple, 
approximate analysis. Specific examples are given to show quantitatively the stop band behaviors; in particular, a 
composite structure with difference lattice pattern in cascade is shown to achieve the broad and omnidirectional 
behavior of stop band. 
 
Figure 1 shows a stack of N identical periodic layers of infinite extent on the horizontal plane, which are 
stacked with equal spacing between two neighboring ones. Each periodic layer is composed of an infinite number 
of rectangular dielectric rods of infinite length. When the number of the periodic layers in the stack is increased 
indefinitely, the structure can be viewed as an unbounded 2D periodic media. Therefore, we may infer the 
propagation characteristics of the 2D periodic medium by the scattering characteristics of a stack of sufficiently 
large number of 1D periodic layers. With the coordinate system attached, the dielectric rods in each layer has 
the width a1 and distance between two neighboring rods is a–a1, so that the periodic of the layer is a. To simplify, 
a1/a will be referred to as the aspect ratio of the 1D periodic layer. The thickness of the 1D periodic layer is b1 
and the separation between two neighboring ones is b–b1. In general, we assume that between two neighboring 
layers, there is a position shift of the distance s in lateral direction, so that we may investigate the effect of a large 
class of array patterns on propagation characteristics of a 2D periodic medium by adjusting the parameter s in our 
analysis. For example, we have a square array pattern for s = 0 and a triangular pattern for s = 0.5. It is noted 
that for an arbitrary value of s, b is not necessarily the periodic in y-direction; actually, the structure has a period 
 
Figure 1   Geometric configuration of 2D periodic array 
given in (2a). Based on the Floque’s theorem, the general field solutions can be expressed as a super- position of 
the complete set of space harmonics. The general electric and magnetic field solutions in 1D periodic medium can 
be written as [6] 
  (5) 
  (6) 
where the matrices P and Q are the coupling matrices and the element of them are dependent on the structural 
parameters as well the incident condition. K is the diagonal matrix with the propagation constant along 
y-direction, kyn, as the nth diagonal elements. 
By imposing the boundary condition at the interface between periodic and uniform layers, we could obtain 
the input– output relations of the periodic layer. The detail mathematical derivations can be found in [6] and we 
only list the result for reference 
  (7a) 
  (7b) 
  (7c) 
  (7d) 
where t is the thickness of 1D periodic layer, Zout and Zin are the output impedance matrices looking downward 
from the lower- and upper- surfaces of such 1D periodic layer, respectively. Whereas T is the transfer matrix, 
which defines the transformation relation of electric fields between the input and output interfaces. It is noted that 
the uniform layer can be considered as the limiting case of 1D periodic layer with vanishing of the periodic 
variations. In view of this, the input– output relation of uniform layer will remain almost the same form but with 
slight modification and could be consulted in the reference. 
Underlying the output condition of the 2D periodic structures, we could successively employ the input– output 
relation of 1D periodic layer and uniform layer from the bottom- and top-layer. Thus we can obtain the input 
impedance matrix Zin for looking downward from the top surface of the structure. The tangential electric and 
magnetic field vectors at the reference plane y = 0 are related by 
  (8) 
On the other hand, the dielectric constant of a 2D periodic medium can be represented by a double Fourier 
series, and so are the electromagnetic fields, known as the Floquet type solutions. The Maxwell equations will then 
yield a set of homogenous linear equations that provides a rigorous basis for the analysis of wave propagation in 
the 2D periodic medium. The condition for existence of nontrivial solutions of the homogeneous linear equations 
leads to the vanishing of the coefficient matrix and this defines the dispersion relation of the medium. For simplify, 
this will be referred to as Floquet approach. 
We have examined a number of 2D periodic structures with different structure parameters and different array 
To investigate the refection of plane wave by a 2D periodic dielectric array, contours of constant reflection 
coefficient are plotted against the normalized frequency, a/l and the incident angle. Figure 3 shows the contours 
of constant reflection coefficient for the case of 16 1D periodic layers with the same lattice pattern, aspect ratios 
and dielectric constant in Figure 2. The reflection coefficient is plotted in gray-scale color map according to the 
level specified by the color bar on the right side of the figure. The region drawn in white color represents that the 
reflection coefficient is very close to unity. As expected, there exist four stopbands, as also marked by A, B, C 
and D. Compare band structure with contours of constant reflection coefficient, and we can find that the stop 
bands agree with those of the infinite medium. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4   Contours of constant reflection coefficient for the 2D periodic structures with 
dielectric constant 11.4, 16 1D periodic layers and the aspect ratio a1/a = 0.4, b1/b = 0.2, a = b 
 
國科會專題研究計畫出國心得報告 
黃瑞彬 教授 
國立交通大學電機工程學系 
        本次PIERS (Progress In Electromagnetics Research Symposium)從八月18至21日於 Moscow, Russia 
舉行，感謝國科會專題研究計畫的補助，使得本團隊的研究成果得以在會中順利發表，此次我所
發表之研究成果為“利用二維金屬柱週期結構合成人工電磁晶體用以控制電磁波傳波特性“。該
研究主要是利用嚴格之波模匹配方法來分析金屬柱所構成之二維週期結構中電磁波模的色散以及
相位關係，了解該結構中所支持之可傳播波模之傳波特性，由於該“介質“在電場方向與柱長方
向一致時會有類似電漿介質的特性，當操作頻率接近該電漿介質之截止頻率時，該介質中所能存
在的電磁波將具有接近零的等效折射係數，因此我們可以獲得一個比空氣折射係數還小的特殊“
介質“。進一步當線波源在此介質中激發時可以使離開介質進入空氣中的波幾乎與該介質之界面
垂直，因此可以控制波能量的行進方向。具體而言，本次會議中在週期結構方面的場次以及論文
數量相當可觀，可見此一研究領域之重要性，由於該研究題材所涵蓋之層面從微波毫米波至光波
皆有其物理現象有趣之處，以及各種不同之應用，因此雖然各場次之名稱不盡相同，然而所討論
之物理現象以及分析時所用的數學方法大致相同。值得一提的是俄國的研究學者在數學基礎上的
確相當深厚，有別於目前大多數人利用商用電磁數值分析軟體以及強大的計算機來分析問題，更
重要的是在物理意義的探討上他們所作的工作較為深入，這一點值得我們省思。我所觀察到的現
象是由於目前大家所使用的電磁分析軟體幾乎都相同，我們能分析的問題別人也同樣可以處理，
這樣的便利性造成大多數學生的研究能力幾乎是降至技術員等級，除了不了解基本的數學方法
之外，對於物理機制之探索能力也相當薄弱。本人長期專注於電磁理論之研究工作，逐年發現學
生在理論分析能力上有退化的現象，基礎理論是延續高科技發展之重要基石，如果不能就此一問
題加以檢討改進，為來電磁相關領域之發展前途必將受限。這次出國參加會議讓我對於基本理論
研究之重要性有更深入之體認與反省，雖然理論研究不是目前之主流，然而卻是最重要的根本
工作。  
1 
3 
Outline of this presentation  
1.  Structure configuration 
2.  Method of mathematical Analysis 
3.  Dispersion relation and phase relation 
of the wire-based metamaterial  
4.  Spatial beam-splitting structure design 
5.  Concluding remarks 
5 
Structure Configuration 
~wired-based metamaterial (II) 
2D metallic cylinders array 
inserted parallel metallic plates 
1.  The height of metallic cylinders 
is much smaller than the 
dimension of the metallic plate. 
2.  Only the Ez mode is considered 
in the theoretical analysis (the 
fields have no variation along the 
z-axis)  
Dispersion relation of the 2D 
metallic cylinders array (I) 
7 
€ 
kx = 0
€ 
ky = βy − jα y
9 
Dispersion relation of the 2D 
metallic cylinders array (III) 
11 
Structural parameters of the spatial 
beam splitter  
Parameter e l t i r a b h 
Value (mm) 30 50 20 8 1.18 15 15 9 
13 
Radiation pattern –  
azimuth plane 
15 
Comparison of the radiation pattern 
between the structure with and without 
periodic structure (I) 
