II
（一）計畫中文摘要
關鍵詞：積體光學、偏極性、極化分光器、抗諧振反射光波導、光子晶體
極化分光器（polarization beam splitter, PBS）是非常重要的光電元件，廣泛地運用在雷射穩頻、
檢測、投影、光通訊等系統上。傳統採用晶體、菱鏡或鍍膜技術的極化分光器因為體積過於龐大、
入射角度小以及熱應力等問題，並不適合運用在積體光學系統中，因此有許多極化分光的元件被提
出，包括液晶式、光纖光柵式等。
光子晶體（photonic crystal）利用折射率週期性變化的結構，能控制特定波長的光在介質中傳輸
的行為。雖然平面光子晶體波導已經有許多的實驗和模擬成果，但是極少有關於光子晶體波導偏極
性的研究，光子晶體極化分光器的研究更是闕如。
因此本計畫以「平面光子晶體波導之偏極性研究與極化分光器之設計」為研究題目，先探討光
子晶體波導之偏極特性，包括溫度效應、偏振色散等，同時提出在光子晶體波導中設計新的極化分
光器的理論和方法。承接本研究群先期在二維光子晶體中引進抗諧振反射式光波導（antiresonant
reflecting optical waveguide, ARROW）結構的研究，新的極化分光器將運用細胞工程（cell engineering）
以及ARROW架構，藉由光子晶體結構和抗諧振反射本身的極化傳播等特性，能研製出低功率損耗、
高效率的積體極化分光元件。
（二）計畫英文摘要
Keywords： Integrated Optics, Polarization, Polarization Beam Splitter, Antiresonant
Reflection Optical Waveguides (ARROW), Photonic Crystals
Polarization beam splitter (PBS) is a kind of important optoelectronic device, which
is widely used in frequency stability of laser, inspection, projection and optical
communication. Traditional polarization beam splitters used prism or film deposition
technologies; they do not suit for integrated optical system due to the huge volume, small
incident angle and thermal stress etc. Therefore, there are many new polarization beam
splitters have been proposed, including using liquid crystals or fiber gratings.
Photonic crystal is the most progressive technology in the area of optoelectronics.
Due to the periodicity of refractive indices in the photonic crystal, certain frequency of
light could not propagate in periodic lattice caused by the Bragg’s difraction. This 
phenomenon called photonic bandgap is the same as the electronic bandgap in
semiconductors. By introducing well-designed defects, light of certain wavelength can
propagate in this structure. The planar photonic crystal (PPC) waveguides have been
demonstrated to have good confinement of light. However, there are only a few
discussions about the polarization characteristics of photonic crystal and photonic crystal
PBS.
So we propose “Investigation of polarization and design of polarization beam
spliter on planar photonic crystal waveguides’ as the topic to be studied. By introducing 
of the antiresonant reflecting optical waveguide (ARROW) structure and by the cell
engineering, a new PBS with low power loss and high transmission rate will be designed.
The properties of PBS, including thermal effect, dispersion, will be studied.
2分光的元件被提出，包括金屬擴散同調式、液晶式、光纖光柵式等。
在光子晶體領域，雖然平面光子晶體波導已經有許多的實驗和模擬成果，但是極少有關於光子晶體波導
偏極性的研究，光子晶體極化分光器的研究更是闕如。因此本計劃以「平面光子晶體波導之偏極性研究與極
化分光器之設計（Investigation of characteristics and design of polarization beam splitters on planar photonic crystal
waveguides）」為題，先探討光子晶體波導之偏極特性，包括溫度效應、偏振色散等，同時提出在光子晶體波
導中設計新的極化分光器的理論和方法。承接本研究群先期在二維光子晶體中引進抗諧振反射式光波導結構
的研究，新的極化分光器將運用細胞工程（cell engineering）以及ARROW架構，藉由光子晶體結構和抗諧振
反射本身的極化傳播等特性，能研製出低功率損耗、高效率的積體極化分光元件。
三、文獻探討
極化分光器或偏振器用來分光或是使光偏極化，其應用相當廣泛，在日常生活常見的，如所戴的太陽眼
鏡、LCD 中的偏極板、立體電影的觀賞眼鏡。在科學實驗的應用方面，可以運用在光纖通訊之多工分光、雷
射穩頻、生化檢測等。
為了提昇極化分光器之特性，國內外有不少相關的研究。在積體光學領域的極化分光器多以下列的結構
型式設計或製作：（1）直接耦合型式、（2）Mach-Zehnder干涉型式、（3）Y型波導型式、（4）光柵式。其原理
則是讓兩個極化的光程差不同，或是設計2個或3個通道的波導，讓其中2個波導對某個極化是光學性全等，對
另外的極性是光學性不等，利用共振穿隧效應（resonant tunneling effect）可以分離出不同極性的光。
直接耦合型式或稱為X型交越波導（X-type waveguide crossings），一般是4埠的架構，具有金屬包覆層的非
對稱型直接耦合波導只有TM模，Δβ反向（Δβ reversal）結構可以製作主動元件。
鈮酸鋰為負單軸雙折射率晶體，是一種絕緣的鐵電性材料。早期以鈦擴散製成低損耗的鈮酸鋰光波導，
好處是製程簡單[5]，近期則以鋅、鎳等金屬當擴散源。在鈮酸鋰基板設計的極化分光器多採用Y型接面或稱為
Y型波導式的結構，分支波導的極化相依折射係數藉由電光調變、金屬包覆層、或質子交換來改變。
台灣大學王維新教授的研究群長期從事光極化分離器的設計與製作。專精於利用模態檢選效應以及簡式
同調耦合轉彎結構，製作出大角度的光極化分離器。該分離器以鈮酸鋰為晶片基材，採用Y形分岔結構，TE
模的分支使用鎳鋅擴散式波導，TM模的分支使用退火式質子交換波導。控制鎳鋅擴散式波導的鎳或鋅濃度，
可以得到單極化的波導，同時藉由退火式質子交換波導僅能導引TM光之特性，達到極化分離之目的。
Mizumoto則在鈮酸鋰波導加上Langmuir-Blodgett（LB）金屬包覆層，利用LB金屬包覆層的雙折射率特性製
作極化分光器，TE和TM極化的cross talk可以低於-30dB且insertion loss小於0.1dB [18]。台北科技大學的王子建教
授則應用鈮酸鋰晶體的應變光學效應，以鎳擴散直波導與質子交換應力區的結構，研製出極化轉換器，TE和
TM的轉換效率高於80﹪。
在光柵式的極化分光器研究方面，交通大學謝漢萍教授的研究群則利用有效介質理論以及嚴格耦合波理
論，設計出平面型偏極光分光器。該分離器採用電子束微影技術製作出高效率和廣入射角範圍的次波長光柵
結構，可以應用於液晶顯示器的導光板。次波長光柵可被視為一具有雙射率 (birefringence) 的單軸晶體，而且
其折射率可藉由光柵的填充比來改變。利用這些特性，經由設計使得光柵對一偏極方向的入射光形成反射鏡，
而對另一偏極方向的入射光形成抗反射膜。由於次波長光柵的單軸晶體特性在小角度內幾乎和入射角無關，
因此這一偏極分光器的入射角範圍高達10度。最近也有人提出利用光柵式的耦合器設計的極化分光器。
利用Mach-Zehnder干涉型式設計的極化分光器，大多也是採用Y形分岔波導結構，有的配合電光開關，利
用干涉原理達到功率分離和模態篩選的目的。
4)()(
)(
1 2
0 rHrHr

 



 
定義 Hermitic 線性微分運算子如下



 
)(
1
r

很明顯的可以看出上述的波方程式是本徵值的問題：
)()( 20 rHrH 
建立模型分析的開端是能帶的計算。一般能帶是沿著第一個 Brillouin zone 的對稱軸計算，如果光子晶
體是用來侷限光子，例如共振腔或波導，這樣的分析已經足夠。如果光子能隙是要用來處理光路，例如超級
菱鏡、準直光管，就必須計算整個 Brillouin zone 的能帶。
光子晶體模型的建立可以採用的數值方法頗多，要同時考慮計算的效率及準確度。在不是高度對稱性
的結構中，FDTD 或 FEM 是較適合的數值分析方法。
另外在求解時需要配合適當的邊界條件：（1） Bloch 邊界條件（Bloch boundary condition），運用在波
導網目的四個臨界面；（2） Mur’s 吸收邊界條件（Mur’s absorbing boundary condition；ABC），運用在遠離
波導的空間，一般設定在 3 倍晶格常數的距離，代表能量在這個距離已經幾乎被衰減為零。（3）另外在高度
對稱性的結構中常用鏡面邊界條件（Mirror boundary condition），運用在波導平面的中線，代表波導縱向的對
稱性，如此可以節省計算所需的成本，但是鏡面邊界條件無法適用於類似 ARROW 等非對稱性的結構。
介電材料的光子能隙可以被計算出來，但是目前的理論計算大都是假設能量毫無損失，也少有理論或實
驗處理介電材料包含能量損失的問題。但是能量損失會影響光子晶體的傳導特性，因此有必要完整的研究光
子能隙和結構參數之間的關係，這些結構參數包括晶體中缺陷的放置、介電性的損失、表面終端效應等。
平面光子晶體波導的散逸模態的色散關係也是要研究的內容。耦合進入波導的光會在輸入介面或者不
連續處形成拍頻圖樣，日本 NTT 的科學家觀測到這種色散關係，同時驗證比傳統的波導還要大。
雖然平面光子晶體波導具有良好的導光特性，但是現有的平面光子晶體波導在縱向仍採用全反射式的
結構，為了維持單模的條件，波導縱向截面積大約是 0.35m0.35m，遠小於單模光纖的尺寸，因此和光纖之
間有高耦合損失（大約 20~40dB），合理的耦合損失應該小於 3.0dB。另外傳導損失仍高（大約 1dB/cm），這
些都是要克服的挑戰。
一維光子晶體中的鏡面對稱（mirror symmetry）會將本徵值方程式分成兩個式子，每個式子對應到一
種極化現象：其中一種是磁場 Hk垂直於鏡面；而電場 Ek平行於鏡面。另一種是磁場 Hk平行於鏡面；而電場
Ek垂直於鏡面。以一維光子晶體結構為例，此結構有 2 個反射鏡面：y-z 和 x-z 平面。現在針對 y-z 平面的反
射運算子 OMx，OMx將 x 換成-x 而 y 和 z 不變。此運算子作用在向量場得到：
)()( rMfMrfO xxM x 
OMx可能的本徵值為+1 和-1 即 even mode 和 odd mode。even mode 的分量為 Hx、Ey、Ez；odd mode 的分
量為 Ex、Hy、Hz。
對二維光子晶體而言，在特定平面的介電係數是週期性，另外垂直此平面為均勻的介質，假設此軸為
z 方向，所以有 z 到-z 的鏡面對稱。因此二維光子晶體的模態可以分成 2 種極性：一種電場被侷限於 x-y 平面，
其分量為 Ex、Ey、Hz，稱為 transverse electric (TE) modes；另外一種磁場被侷限於 x-y 平面，其分量為 Hx、Hy、
Ez，稱為 transverse magnetic (TM) modes。
6not only supplies the basis for numerical model, but it also provides insight into the mechanism of
multimode interference. Here we use the MPA for the formulation of the periodic imaging in PCs.
Assuming that the input wave is continuous and the spatial spectrum of the input field is narrow
enough not to excite the unguided modes, the total input field(y,0) at z = 0 in the multimode region can
be decomposed into the guided modes and expressed as




1
0
)()0,(
p
n
nn ycy  , (2)
wheren(y) is the modal field distribution, cn is the field excitation coefficient, p is the number of modes,
and the subscript n denotes the order of the mode (n = 0, 1, 2, …, p-1). Assuming the time dependence
implicit hereafter, the field profile at a distance z can then be written as a superposition of all the guided
mode field distributions
 ]exp[)(),( 0
1
0
zjyczy n
p
n
nn   


. (3)
The profile of(y, z) and the types of images formed will be determined by the modal excitation cn,
and the properties of the mode phase factor exp[j(0 -n)z], where0 andn are the propagation constants
of the fundamental mode and the nth mode. The length Ld of direct images satisfies
   ndn pL 20  , with pn = 1, 2, 3, …, (4)
and we obtain
(y, Ld) =(y, 0). (5)
The length Lm of mirror images satisfies
   nmn qL 20  , for even modes and
   )12(0  nmn qL , for odd modes
with qn = 1, 2, 3, …, (6)
and we obtain
(-y, Lm) =(y, 0). (7)
In the following a multimode interference-based 1-to-2 wavelength-division- demultiplexer will be
designed on an air-hole PC Structure, which can be applied in a coarse wavelength division multiplexing
(CWDM) system. The PWE method is used to get the information of propagated modes, the MPA is used
to calculate the self-imaging positions, and the FDTD method is used to confirm the positions and to
observe the performance of devices. The 2D PC structure we used is a triangular lattice of air holes on a
dielectric substrate with refractive index 3.4. The radius of air holes r = 0.32a, where a is the lattice
constant of the PC. That results an H-polarization bandgap in the frequency range from 0.215 to 0.298
(a/). H-polarization indicates that the electric field is perpendicular to the normal of the lattice plane,
which follows the convention used in a photonic crystal. Figure 1 shows the input portion of the
MMI-based wavelength-division-demultiplexer. A single line-defect PC waveguide which is formed by
removing one row of air holes along the direction in the triangular lattice acts as the access
waveguide and four consecutive rows of air holes are removed to form the multimode interference region.
The projected band diagram of the four line-defect PC waveguide calculated by the PWE method is
illustrated in Fig. 2. From the dispersion curves it can be found that the multimode region supports four
defect modes at the frequency of 0.253 (a/). These modes in the wide defect region lead to the operation
of multimode interference. Those parameters about these modes at this frequency, including the
8Fig. 3. FDTD simulation results of the steady-state field distribution in the multimode region at 0.253
(a/). Direct single images reproduce at the distance about 36a, 72a, and 106a.
Table 1 Parameters of the four line-defect PC waveguide used to calculate the Ld at the frequency of 0.253
(a/).
Table 2 Parameters of the four line-defect PC waveguide used to calculate the Lm at the frequency of
0.230 (a/).
Fig. 4. FDTD simulation results of the steady-state field distribution in the multimode region at 0.230
(a/). Mirrored single images reproduce at the distance about 15a, 45a, 75a, and 105a.
Two single line-defect PC waveguides which act as output ports are added to the structure and the
whole MMI-based 1-to-2 wavelength-division- demultiplexer is presented in Fig. 5. This device is
designed for the usage in a CWDM system. The range of wavelength () is from 1480 to 1625 nm.
Therefore, by setting the lattice constant, a, as 374 nm, a 1480/1625-nm demultiplexer is constructed. The
wave of wavelength 1625 nm is intended to be routed to the output port A, and the wave of wavelength
1480 nm is routed to the output port B. To evaluate the transmission characteristic of this wavelength
10
Conclusion
In our investigation, we have found that the multimode interference still exists in multimode PC
waveguides just as in conventional multimode waveguides. The imaging positions calculated by the
FDTD simulation have a good agreement to that derived by the MPA method. This means that the
analytic methods for MMI in conventional multimode waveguides still can be applied in 2D PC
waveguides. Based on the self-imaging principle, a MMI-based 1-to-2 1480/1625-nm wavelength-
division-demultiplexer is designed on an air-hole PC structure. The results show that the insertion loss is
about 0.334 dB for the wavelength 1480 nm and 0.329 dB for 1625 nm, respectively. The contrast is
about 15.5 dB and 12.9 dB for the wavelength 1480 nm and 1625 nm, respectively. However, there is still
much room for further research on the self-imaging phenomena in multimode PC waveguides. For
example, a different image length for H-polarization and E-polarization makes it possible to design a
MMI-based polarization beam splitter on a PC structure. And the multiple images in multimode PC
waveguides lead to the design of 1-to-N power splitters. These devices having substantial size reductions
compare with their conventional counterparts. There are still many issues that we should study or improve
when designing the MMI devices on a PC. At first, the light line problem must be considered when a full
three-dimensional system is established. Another issue is that the image length becomes longer abruptly
when the width of multimode PC waveguides is broadened. This is due to their larger dispersion relation
in a multimode PC waveguide than in a conventional waveguide, and may cause the device size to
increase. It would be a challenge to design a 1-to-N MMI PC device.
六、參考文獻
[1] L. B. Soldano, and E. C. M. Pennings, “Optical multi-mode interference devices based on
self-imaging: principles and applications,” J. Lightwave Technol., vol. 13, no. 4, 1995, pp. 615-627.
[2] M. R. Paiam, C. F. Janz, R. I. MacDonald, and J. N. Broughton, “Compact planar 980/1550-nm
wavelength multi/demultiplexer based on multi- mode interference,” IEEE Photonics Technol. Lett.,
vol. 7, no. 10, 1995, pp. 1180-1182.
[3] Z. Li, Z. Chen, and B. Li, “Optical pulse controlled all-optical logic gates in SiGe/Si multimode
interference,” Opt. Express, vol. 13, no. 3, 2005, pp. 1033-1038.
[4] Y. Zhang, Z. Li, and B. Li, “Multimode interference efect and self-imaging principle in
two-dimensional silicon photonic crystal waveguides for terahertz waves,” Opt. Express, vol. 14, no. 7,
2006, pp. 2679-2689.
[5] Z. Li, Y. Zhang, and B. Li, “Terahertz photonic crystal switch in silicon based on self-imaging
principle,” Opt. Express, vol. 14, no. 9, 2006, pp. 3887-3892.
[6] T. Liu, A. R. Zakharian, M. Falahi, J. V. Moloney, and M. Mansuripur, “Multimode interence-based
photonic crystal waveguide power spliter,” J. Lightwave Technol., vol. 22, no. 12, 2004, pp.
2842-2846.
表 Y04
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告
96 年 10 月 4 日
報告人姓名
呂明峰
服務機構
及職稱
明新科技大學電子工程系
副教授
時間
會議
地點
96/06/18~96/06/21
杭州，中國
本會核定
補助文號
NSC 95-2221-E-159-015
會議
名稱
(中文)第一屆 OSA 奈米光學研討會 (NANO)
(英文) OSA Topical Conference on Nanophotonics (NANO)
發表
論文
題目
(中文) 利用模態匹配技術設計之光子晶體 120 度彎折波導
(英文) Efficient 120Photonic Crystal Waveguide Bend by Mode Matching
Technique
附
件
三
