2中文摘要
本計劃成功地以濕式化學法製備三維氧化鋅複合奈米結構，即於以化學浴法成長之單晶氧化鋅奈米
線陣列間，再利用另一化學浴法建構橫向的一維單晶氧化鋅奈米結構，形成奈米樹枝狀結構；並進一
步以無鹼化學浴法於三維網絡空隙中再成長零維氧化鋅奈米顆粒，以增加三維複合奈米結構之表面
積。利用此氧化鋅複合奈米結構兼具三維單晶網絡與高表面積之優點，本計劃將其應用於染料敏化太
陽能電池，並配合光強度調製光譜分析法分析其載子傳輸特性。在相同的電極厚度 3.5m 時，利用此
氧化鋅三維複合奈米電極組裝的染料敏化太陽能電池，比二氧化鈦奈米顆粒染料敏化太陽能有較佳的
效率。由於氧化鋅奈米樹枝狀結構建構了一個三維擬單晶的網絡，有效提升電子傳輸速度，再加上其
中的奈米顆粒提供了高表面積，有利於染料吸附與光電子的產生，因此成就了三維氧化鋅奈米複合染
料敏化太陽能電池的高效率。
關鍵字：濕式化學方式、氧化鋅三維複合奈米結構、染料敏化太陽能電池、奈米顆粒、奈米線、奈米
樹枝、電子傳輸速度
41. Introduction
A high-surface-area and dye-sensitized TiO2 nanoparticle (NP) film on a transparent conducting oxide
(TCO) is typically employed to be the photoanode of a dye-sensitized solar cell (DSSC).1 The improvement
of the electron transport in the anode of the DSSCs has been demonstrated by using the ZnO nanowire (NW)
arrays due to the single crystalline structure.2,3 However, the efficiencies of the ZnO-NW cells are still
inferior to those of conventional TiO2-NP DSSCs because of insufficient surface area of the ZnO-NW anode
for dye adsorption.2 We have reported a significant improvement of the efficiency of the ZnO-NW DSSC by
the chemical bath deposition of the dense ZnO/layered basic zinc acetate (LBZA) NPs within the interstices of
the vertical ZnO-NW anode.4,5 By analyzing the performances of the NW/NP composite DSSCs with
different fractions of the insulating LBZA in the composite anode, the insulting LBZA is suggested to play
crucial roles in electron injection and recombination in the composite photoanode.5
The incident photon-to-current efficiency (IPCE) of a solar cell is the product of the light harvesting
efficiency (LHE()), electron injection efficiency (inj) and electron collection efficiency (c). Assume that
injected electrons is the sum of electrons collected on TCO and electrons lost by recombination and the rate
constants for these processes are independent of each other,c is given by the expression:6
oc
sc
rsc
sc
inj
sc
c JJ
J
J
J

 

 1 (1)
where Jsc, Jinj and Jr are the short-circuit current density, the electron-injection current density from dye to
anode and the recombination current density, respectively;sc is the electron transit time andoc is the electron
recombination time. Moreover, the useful thickness of the photoanode shall be enlarged when the effective
electron diffusion length Ln [ 2/1)( oceffn DL  , where Deff is effective electron diffusion coefficient] is
enhanced.7 The surface area for dye absorption and thus light harvesting efficiency as well as the overall
efficiency of the DSSC would be improved. The effective diffusion coefficient is proportional to the product
of the square of the photoanode thickness (L) and the inverse electron transport time,7,8 therefore effective
electron diffusion length is proportional to square root of the ratio of the electron recombination time to transit
time:
6DSSC by the bottom-up growth of NPs with the interstices of the vertical ZnO-NW array.4,5
Typical IMPS and IMVS responses of the four DSSCs are illustrated in Figures 2(a) and (b) which were
taken under an illumination of 530 nm and 90W/m2. Figure 2(a) shows that the IMPS plots go toward the
negative real/negative imaginary quadrant at high frequency. It is ascribed to the RC attenuation (R: cell
series resistance and C: photoelectrode capacitance)8 that limits the dynamical response of the photocell.
The effect is suggested to be corrected by an attenuation function of A():7,8
2221
1
)(
CR
RCi
A 


 (3)
The cell series resistance and photoelectrode capacitance of the DSSCs were extracted from EIS
measurements in this study.
The electron transport times (sc) and electron lifetimes (oc) in the cells under illumination intensity
ranging from 30-90 mW/cm2 were obtained by fitting corrected IMPS and IMVS results using the method
demonstrated by Schlichthorl et al.6 Light intensity dependence of dynamics of electron transport and
recombination are shown in Figure 2(c). It reveals that the electron transport rates in the four cells measured
by IMPS are in order of horizontal TiO2-NW < TiO2-NP < ZnO-NW array/NP composite < vertical ZnO-NW
array, which is consistent with that of Deff in the four anodes obtained from electrochemical impedance
spectroscopy measurements.4,9 The behavior of the light intensity dependence on the transit time of the
vertical ZnO-NW array anode is dissimilar to the other three photoanodes as shown in Figure 2(c). The
vertical ZnO-NW array anode keeps a constant transit time whereas the transit times of the others increase
when the light intensity is decreased. The constant transit time in the ZnO-NW DSSC has been
demonstrated and it is ascribed to very few traps existing in the ZnO NWs.7 On the other hand, the decrease
of the electron transit time in the ordinary NP photoanode has also been reported as increasing the light
intensity7,8 since more photoelectrons are present to fill the deep traps and electron trapping/detrapping
involves shallower trap levels only. When the single crystalline NWs horizontally lay on the TCO to form
the TiO2-NW cell as shown in Figure 1 (d), the injected electrons diffusing through the horizontal featured
NWs to the TOC still suffer from multiple trapping/detrapping events occurring within grain boundaries.
Additionally, the electrons in the single crystalline NWs may preferentially move along the longitudinal
direction of the NWs which prolongs the path toward the TCO substrate, resulting in a much longer electron
8time results in its much smaller Ln compared to that of the TiO2-NP one. It consists with the results that the
optimal anode thickness of the horizontal TiO2-NW DSSC (5.6 m) is thinner than that of the TiO2-NP cell
(10.2m).9 On the other hand, insufficient surface area of the ZnO-NW anode results in that the ZnO-NWs
with a very long length are needed to achieve a high efficient cell. It is not realistic compared to the
technique already developed for the high-surface-area TiO2 anode. Apart from the ZnO-NW DSSC, the
ZnO-NW array/NP composite DSSC possesses a superior f to the TiO2-NP DSSC. f of the ZnO-NW
array/NP composite DSSC is threefold larger than that in the conventional TiO2-NP cell, resulting from that
the existences of the ZnO NWs and insulating LBZA in the composite anode enhance the electron transport
rate and the electron lifetime, respectively. The higher f indicates that the ZnO-NW array/NP composite
anode is able to sustain efficient electron collection over much larger thickness than the TiO2-NP cell does,
that is, the useful thickness of the ZnO-NW array/NP composite photoanode shall be larger than that of
TiO2-NP anode. The inferior efficiency of the ZnO composite cell in comparison with the TiO2-NP one is
mainly limited to the issue of dye.4
4. Conclusions
The roles of the vertical ZnO NWs and insulating LBZA in electron collection and transport in the ZnO
NW array-ZnO/LBZA NP composite DSSC were investigated by comparing the IMPS and IMVS results to
those of the TiO2-NP, horizontal TiO2-NW and vertical ZnO-NW array DSSCs. Due to the presences of the
vertical ZnO NWs and insulating LBZA, the ZnO NW/NP composite DSSC possesses the electron transport
rate and electron lifetime superior to the conventional TiO2-NP and horizontal TiO2-NW DSSCs. Apart from
the horizontal TiO2-NW DSSC,c in the other three cells are very close to unit at an anode thickness of 5m.
On the other hand, f of the ZnO-NW array/NP composite DSSC is threefold larger than that in the
conventional TiO2-NP cell, indicating that a larger effective diffusion length than that of TiO2-NP cell is
available in the ZnO-NW array/NP composite DSSC.
Acknowledgments
Financial support from the National Science Council in Taiwan under Contract No. NSC
96-2628-E006-017-MY3 is gratefully acknowledged.
10
Table 1 c and f of the four DSSCs estimated from IMPV and IMVS measurements at light intensities of (I)
90, (II) 70, (III) 50 and (IV) 30 mW/cm2.
c f
DSSC
(I) (II) (III) (IV) (I) (II) (III) (IV)
ZnO NW /NP Compostie ~1 ~1 ~1 0.99 23.2 18.1 14.9 12.6
vertical ZnO-NW ~1 ~1 ~1 ~1 36.6 39.5 41.9 45.0
TiO2-NP 0.98 0.97 0.95 0.92 8.0 5.8 4.7 3.5
horizontal TiO2-NW 0.69 0.61 0.48 0.36 1.8 1.6 1.4 1.3
12
Figure 2 Typical IMPS (a) and IMVS (b) responses of the ZnO NW array/NP composite (), vertical
ZnO-NW array (), TiO2-NP () and horizontal TiO2-NW () DSSCs taken under an illumination of 530
nm and 90W/m2. (c) Light intensity dependence of lifetime and electron transit time in the four types of
DSSCs.
14
Introduction
DSSCs have been demonstrated to achieve an efficiency of 11.5% by employing Ruthenium dye-sensitized
TiO2 NP photoanode.1 The efficiency of a solar cell is determined by three factors of light harvesting
efficiency, electron injection efficiency and electron collection efficiency. The TiO2 NP film provides a
large surface area for dye adsorption. However, due to multiple trapping/detrapping events occurring within
grain boundaries, slow electron transport rate in the TiO2 NP film is one of the limitations for improving the
cell efficiency further. Superior electron transport properties have been demonstrated in NW DSSCs by
using well-aligned and single-crystalline ZnO NW electrodes.2,3 A higher electron collection efficiency
compared to TiO2 NP anode is obtained using the single-crystalline ZnO NW anode.4 However, the
photocurrents and the efficiencies of the ZnO NW cells are inferior to those of the conventional TiO2 NP
DSSCs.2,4 It was suggested to be ascribed to insufficient surface area of the ZnO NW anode for dye
adsorption.2 Recently, well-aligned and single-crystalline rutile TiO2 NW arrays have been successfully
grown on FTO substrates.5,6 Although the rutile TiO2 NW DSSCs perform as efficient cells, the electron
transport rate in the TiO2 NW DSSC is considerably inferior to that in ZnO NW cell.7
With the consideration of the single-crystalline branches also fascinating fast electron transport, branched
ZnO NWs have been employed to be the anode of DSSC for enlarging the surface area of ZnO NWs.8,9
Hierarchical ZnO structures constructed from rod-like units have been demonstrated via solution routes using
renucleation/growth10,11 and recoating-seeds/growth9 methods. Zhang et al.10 reported a route of the
site-specific sequential nucleation and growth to the branched ZnO micro/nanostructures. The organic
structure-directing agents, like diamine molecules, were added into the precursor solution to synthesize
branches on the primary rods. The rotorlike ZnO micro/nanostructures were therefore formed on the
16
To further enhance electron transport properties in the ZnO-based photoanodes, ZnO nanodendrite (ND)
arrays which possess the feature of three-dimensional (3D) and quasi-single-crystalline network are
synthesized using a simple wet chemical route in the present work. The ZnO ND array constructs a denser
fast electron transport pathway compared to the NW array for electron diffusion through the photoanode.
The NPs are further formed within the interstices of the NDs to enlarge the surface area for dye adsorption.
The ZnO ND/NP composite DSSC demonstrates outperformed photovoltaic properties that with the anode
thickness of 3.5 m, the efficiency of the D149-sensitized ZnO ND/NP DSSC is superior to that of
N719-densitized TiO2 NP cell.
Experimental Section
ZnO ND arrays have been synthesized on FTO substrates using a simple wet-chemical route. Aligned
ZnO NW arrays were first grown on the seeded FTO substrates by CBD in a 0.02M aqueous solution of zinc
acetate (Zn(CH3COO)22H2O, ZnAc2H2O, Merk, 99.5 %) and hexamethylenetetramine (C6H12N4, HMTA,
Riedel-de Haen, 99.5 %) at 95 oC for 3h. Formation of the seed layers on FTO substrates has been described
in detail elsewhere.12,14 The branches of the ZnO NDs were further constructed by another CBD process.
The ZnO NW array/FTO substrate was immersed in an aqueous solution of 0.057 M ZnAc2H2O and 0.5M
NaOH (named solution (I) hereafter) at 100 oC for 3.5h. The limpid solution (I) was obtained by preparing a
solution of 0.57 M ZnAc2H2O and 5 M NaOH and then further diluting by a factor of 10. The ND array
was rinsed by DI water and was annealed at 600 oC for 30 min. Base-free CBD was employed to synthesize
ZnO NPs12,14 within the interstices of ZnO ND arrays for the formation of ZnO ND/NP composite films.
The ZnO ND arrays were immersed in a 0.15 M methanolic solution of ZnAc2H2O at 60 oC for 20.5h. The
composites were rinsed by methanol and dried at 70 oC. The morphologies of the deposited materials were
18
structure-directing agents on the surface of NWs, the branches are directly formed on the ZnO NWs after
another CBD in solution (I) at 100 oC for 3.5 h. As shown in Figure 1, the SEM images reveal that the ZnO
ND array with high-density 3D frameworks is formed by the simple wet-chemical route. The lengths of the
branches are ~ 200 nm. The diameters of the branches are in the range of 20-50 nm. On the other hand, the
diameters and the lengths of the trunks (primary NWs) are also increased to 150-250 nm and ~3.5 m,
respectively, after the CBD process. Moreover, as shown in Figures 1(c) and (d), the SEM images of the top
and bottom portions of the ZnO ND array reveal that the parallel branches are formed on the m-planes of the
trunks. The angle between branch and trunk is ~110o.
Structural characterizations of the ZnO ND arrays were carried out using TEM. A typical cross-sectional
TEM image of the ZnO ND array is shown in Figure 2(a). It reveals the formation of high-density 3D
frameworks in the ZnO ND array. High-resolution (HR) TEM characterizations of branches grown on NWs
were further performed to examine the microstructure relationship between the trunk and branch. Figure 2
(b) shows a HRTEM image of the trunk and branch, which was taken with the same zone axis of [ 0211 ] for
both trunk and branch. It reveals that the trunk possesses the single-crystal structure and the growth
direction is along [0001], indicating that the NW sustains the original structure (Figure S2, supporting
information) after the CBD of branches. Figure 2(b) also illustrates that the branch is single crystalline and
grows along [0001]. It should be addressed here that with the same zone axis of [ 0211 ], the angle between
[0001] directions of the trunk and branch is ~110o, which is consistent with the observation from the SEM
image in Figures 1(c) and (d). Figure 2(c) shows a HRTEM image of the interfacial region of another trunk
and branch. The corresponding selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern is shown in Figure 2(d).
They are also taken with the same zone axis of [ 0211 ] for both trunk and branch. As shown in Figure 2(c), a
20
during the CBD process. Surface reconstruction of the exposed surfaces of the etch pits maybe needed for
developing (001) planes of the branches from them, leading to the zigzag interface between the trunk and
branch as show in Figure 2(c).
The ZnO ND arrays were employed as anodes to fabricate DSSCs. The photovoltaic and electron
transport properties of the ZnO ND DSSC were compared to those of ZnO NW DSSC. It has been
demonstrated that abundant electron interfacial recombination occurs in the Ru complex dye-sensitized ZnO
DSSC due to the high surface trap density in the ZnO photoanode after such dye adsorption.17 On the other
hand, D149, an indoline dye, has been reported to well match with ZnO anodes although it is not specially
designed for ZnO and the absorption range of D149 is narrower than that of Ru-complex dye.18 Therefore,
D149 dye is employed to be the sensitizer for the ZnO-based cells in the present work. The NW and ND
arrays were annealed at 600 oC for 30 min before dye soaking process. The current-voltage characteristics of
the ZnO NW and ZnO ND DSSCs are shown in Figure 3(a). The photovoltaic parameters of the cells are
summarized in Table 1. It shows that the short-circuit current density (Jsc) of the ZnO ND DSSC is
enhanced compared to that of the ZnO NW cell, which is ascribed to the higher surface area of ND anode. A
higher efficiency () of the ZnO-ND DSSC is therefore obtained.
Optical modulation measurements were further performed to examine the electron transit times in the ZnO
ND and ZnO NW photoanodes. Typical IMPS responses of the two DSSCs, which were taken under an
illumination of 530 nm and 90 mWcm-2, are shown in Figures S3 (supporting information). It reveals that
the IMPS plots go toward the negative real/negative imaginary quadrant at high frequency, which is ascribed
to the RC attenuation. In the present work, the RC attenuation is corrected by an attenuation function4,19 in
all measured IMPS plots. The electron transit times of the cells were estimated by fitting the IMPS
22
the corresponding dark-field images of region B in Figure 5(a). The dark-field image reveals that the
diameters of NPs in the composite film are in the range of 5-30 nm.
DSSCs were fabricated using the D149-sensitized ZnO ND/NP composite photoanodes. The photovoltaic
performance of the D149-sensitized ZnO ND/NP composite DSSC was compared to that of the
N719-sensitized TiO2 NP cell. With an anode thickness of 3.5m, as shown in Figure 6(a) and Table 1, the
D149-sensitized ZnO ND/NP composite DSSC has an efficiency of 3.74 %, which is higher than that of TiO2
NP cell. Jsc and open-circuit voltage (Voc) of the ZnO ND/NP composite DSSC are superior to those of
TiO2 NP cell although the fill factor (FF) of ZnO composite DSSC is worse than that of the TiO2 NP cell.
Since the absorption range of the D149 dye is narrower than that of N719 dye, we suggest that the superior
photovoltaic properties of the D149-sensitized ZnO ND/NP composite DSSC is attributed to the sufficient
surface area for dye adsorption and fast electron transport in the 3D single-crystalline network of ZnO NDs.
Light intensity dependence of electron lifetime and transit time in the D149-sensitized ZnO ND/NP
composite DSSC and N719-sensitized TiO2 NP DSSC obtained from IMVS and IMPS measurements,
respectively, are shown in Figure 6(b). IMVS measurements show that electron lifetimes in the ZnO ND/NP
composite anode are shorter than those in the TiO2 NP one. Unlike N719 dye for the TiO2 anodes, D149 dye
is not specially designed for ZnO anodes. In addition, there is no co-adsorber, such as tertbutylpyridine, in
the electrolyte of D149-sensitized ZnO ND/NP composite DSSC. Therefore, we suggest that the worse FF
and electron lifetimes in the ZnO ND/NP composite DSSC are mainly attributed to the poor coverage of D149
dye adsorbed on ZnO ND/NP composite anode. On the other hand, as shown in Figure 6(b), electron
transport rate in the ZnO ND/NP composite anode is thirty-fold enhanced compared to that in the TiO2 NP
anode. The dependence of dynamics of the electron transport on light intensity is observed in the TiO2 NP
24
formed on the NWs in the CBD solution, play a crucial role in the branch formation. D149-sensitized ZnO
ND DSSC has superior photovoltaic properties to ZnO NW cell. IMPS measurements show that electron
transit time in the ND anode is almost identical to that in the NW one. In addition, independence of
dynamics of electron transport on light intensity is observed in the ZnO ND anode due to very few traps
existing in the NDs, indicating that 3D and quasi-signal-crystalline frameworks are successfully constructed
in the ZnO ND arrays for fast electron transport. ZnO NPs are further bottom-up grown within the
interstices of the ZnO NDs using a base-free CBD method to form 3D ZnO ND/NP composite film. The
efficiency of the D149-sensitized ZnO ND/NP composite DSSC is higher than that of N719-sensitized TiO2
NP DSSC. IMPS measurements indicate that the electron transport rate in the ZnO ND/NP composite anode
is thirty-fold enhanced compared to that in the TiO2 NP anode. Moreover, the dynamics of electron transport
in the ZnO ND/NP composite DSSC are insensitive to light intensity. The IMPS results indicate that trap
density in the ZnO ND/NP composite anode is significantly lower than that in TiO2 NP anode. A superior
efficiency of the 3D ZnO ND/NP composite DSSC compared to that of TiO2 NP cell is mainly due to the
quasi-single-crystalline 3D framework of ZnO NDs fascinating fast electron transport.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT. The authors thank Prof. J. S. Chen for helpful discussions on TEM
characterization. Financial supports from the National Science Council and the Bureau of Energy, Ministry
of Economic Affairs in Taiwan under Contract No. NSC 99-2221-E006-198-MY3 and 99-D0204-2,
respectively, are gratefully acknowledged.
Supporting Information Available. SEM images of the ZnO NW array on FTO substrate, TEM
characterizations of the as-prepared ZnO NWs and the ZnO NWs after immersed in the limpid solution (I) and
26
REFERENCES
1. Chen, C.-Y.; Wang, M.; Li, J.-Y.; Pootrakulchote, N.; Alibabaei, L.; Ngoc-le, C.; Decoppet, J.-D.; Tsai,
J.-H.; Gratzel, C. G.; Wu, C.-G.; Zakeeruddin, S. M.; Gratzel, M. ASC Nano, 2009, 3, 3103.
2. Law, M.; Greene, L. E.; Johnson, J. C.; Saykally, R.; Yang, P. D. Nat. Mater. 2005, 4, 455.
3. Galoppini, E.; Rochford, J.; Chen, H. H.; Saraf, G.; Lu, Y. C.; Hagfeldt, A.; Boschloo, G. J. Phys.
Chem. B 2006, 110, 16159.
4. Wong, D. K.-P.; Ku, C.-H.; Chen, Y.-R.; Chen, G.-R.; Wu, J.-J. ChemPhysChem 2009, 10, 2698.
5. Liu, B.; Aydil, E. S. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131, 3985.
6. Feng, X.; Shankar, K.; Varghese, O. K.; Paulose, M.; Latempa, T. J.; Grimes, C. A. Nano Lett. 2008, 8,
3781.
7. Enache-Pommer, E.; Liu, B.; Aydil, E. S. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2009, 11, 9648.
8. Baxter J. B.; Aydil E. S. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 2006, 90, 607.
9. Cheng, H.-M.; Chiu, W.-H.; Lee, C.-H.; Tsai, S.-Y.; Hsieh, W.-F. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 16359.
10. Zhang, T.; Dong, W.; Keeter-Brewer, M.; Konar, S.; Njabon, R. N.; Tian, Z. R. J. Am. Chem. Soc.
2006, 128, 10960.
11. Sounart, T. L.; Liu, J.; Voigt, J. A.; Hsu, J. W. P.; Spoerke, E. D.; Tian, Z.; Jiang, Y. Adv. Funct. Mater.
2006, 16, 335.
28
Scheme 1. Proposed Electron transport mechanisms in (a) ZnO NP/ND and (b) TiO2 NP photoanodes.
30
Figure 1. (a) Top-view and (b) cross-sectional SEM images of the ZnO ND array on FTO substrate.
High-magnification SEM images of (c) top and (d) bottom portions of the ZnO ND array.
32
Figure 3. (a) Current-voltage characteristics of the ZnO NW and ZnO ND DSSCs. (b) Light intensity
dependence of the transit times in the two DSSCs obtained from IMPS measurements.
34
Figure 5. (a) Typical cross-sectional TEM image of the NP/ND composite film. (b) HRTEM image of the
interfacial region of the trunk and branch (region A in (a)). (c) and (d) The corresponding SAED patterns of
the trunk and branch in (b), respectively. (e) Typical SAED pattern of the NP/ND composite film. (f) and (g)
The bright-field and the corresponding dark-field images of region B in (a), respectively.
36
Figure S1 (a) Top-view and (b) cross-sectional SEM images of the ZnO NW array on FTO substrate.
38
Figure S3 IMPS responses of the ZnO NW and ZnO ND DSSCs. The spectra were taken under an
illumination of 530 nm and 90 mWcm-2.
40
1. Introduction
Due to its low production cost, dye-sensitized solar cell (DSSC) has been recognized as a promising
solar-energy conversion device recently.[1] A solar energy conversion efficiency of 11.5% has been achieved
using ruthenium dye-sensitized TiO2 nanoparticle (NP) film photoanode.[2] The TiO2 NP film provides a
large surface area for dye adsorption. However, the slow electron transport rate in the TiO2 NP anode is one
of the limitations for improving the cell efficiency further. Multiple trapping/detrapping events occur within
grain boundaries of the TiO2 NP anode during electron transport process.[3] Energy loss consequently arises
because of recombination between photoelectrons in the TiO2 traps and either the oxidized dye molecules or

3I in the electrolyte.
[1] ZnO, which has an energy band gap similar to that of TiO2 but possesses higher
electron mobility, has been an alternative anode material for DSSCs.[4] Superior electron transport properties
have been demonstrated in ZnO-based DSSCs with various anode structures, such as single-crystalline
nanowire (NW),[5,6] porous crystalline film[7] and NW/NP composite film.[8,9] However, the ZnO-based
DSSCs have much poorer efficiency than that of TiO2 DSSCs so far. The main reason is that there is no
efficient dye available for ZnO anode whereas ruthenium dyes are specially designed for TiO2 anode.[7]
Indoline dyes which are also originally designed for TiO2 anode[10] have been found a comparatively good
match with ZnO recently.[7]
Regardless of the issue of dye, ZnO nanostructures still attract considerable attention for DSSC
application because of its low crystallization temperature and anisotropic growth behavior in addition to
superior electron transport properties.[4] In the present work, we demonstrate the room-temperature (RT)
chemical bath deposition (CBD) of hierarchical nanostructures on ZnO NWs to construct ZnO nanocactus
42
substrate is initially immersed into the limpid solution for the RT CBD process. As long as the ZnO
NWs/FTO substrate is immersed into the already opaque solution, the feature of ZnO NCs is not achievable.
Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) characterizations of the as-prepared ZnO NW and the ZnO NW
after staying in the limpid solution of the RT CBD for 2 min are displayed in Figures 2(a)-(c). In
comparison with the image of as-prepared ZnO NW in Figure 2(a), Figures 2(b) and (c) indicate that the
single-crystalline structure is sustained but many etch pits are formed on the surface of ZnO NW after staying
in the limpid solution for 2 min. Formation of the etch pits is ascribed to the high concentration of NaOH in
the limpid solution.
Typical TEM image of the ZnO NCs scratched from ZnO NC-20 is shown in Figure 3(a). It reveals
that the parallel spines are formed on the NWs. The angle between spines and NW is ~110o. Figure 3(b)
shows a high-resolution (HR) TEM image of the NW and spine, which were taken with the same zone axis of
[ 0211 ] for both NW and spine. It evidently reveals that the spine is developed from a etch pit on the NW.
The selected area electron diffraction (SAED) patterns of the NW and spine portions taken from fast Fourier
transform (FFT) are shown in Figures 3(c) and (d), respectively. Figures 3(b) and (c) show that the NW
possesses the single-crystal structure and the growth direction is along [0001], indicating that the primary NW
sustains the original structure and the shell of the NC is epitaxially grown on surface of primary NW after the
RT CBD. Figures 3(b) and (d) illustrate that the spine is single crystalline and grows along [0001] as well.
With the same zone axis of [ 0211 ], the angle between [0001] directions of the NW and spine is ~110o. Since
the angle between the (001) and ( 230 ) planes is 109.82o in the wurtzite structure of ZnO crystal, it is
therefore suggested that the (001) planes of the spine develop from the ( 230 ) planes of the etch pit on NW
with the common zone axis of [ 0211 ], which results in the specific angle of ~110o between the NWs and
44
ZnO NC anode but also the diminution of the back reaction of photoelectron in the ZnO NC anode with 3I
in the electrolyte in the absence of co-adsorber. Consequently, FFs of the ZnO NC DSSCs are superior to
that of the ZnO NW DSSC. In addition to the enhanced dye adsorption coverage, the enrichment of Jsc in
the ZnO NC DSSCs is mainly attributed to the larger surface area of the ZnO NC anode compared to that of
the ZnO NW one. Voc is fundamentally corresponding to the difference of the Fermi level of anode and the
redox potential of electrolyte.[14] The higher concentration of photoelectron on the conduction band, i.e.
larger photocurrent as shown in Figure 4(a), elevates the quasi-Fermi level of ZnO NC anode which results in
a larger Voc in the ZnO NC DSSCs. Moreover, the increase of shunt resistance in the ZnO NC DSSCs also
enhances the Voc[13] compared to the ZnO NW DSSC.
Dynamics of charge transport in the ZnO NW and ZnO NC DSSCs obtained from intensity modulated
photocurrent spectroscopy (IMPS) measurements are shown in Figure 4(b). It should be addressed here
again that in the present work, the ZnO NW and ZnO NC DSSCs were fabricated using as-prepared NW and
NC anodes which were not annealed at high temperatures. The dependence of dynamics of the electron
transport on light intensity is observed in the ZnO NW DSSC, indicating that traps exist in the unannealed
NW anode. The transit time in the ZnO NW anode decreases as the light intensity is increased. It is
attributed to that more photoelectrons are generated at higher light intensity to fill the deep traps as a result
that electron trapping/detrapping involves shallower trap levels only.[15] Surprisingly, however, the electron
transit times in the ZnO NC anodes are significantly shorter than those in the ZnO NW anode. Moreover,
the dynamics of electron transport in the ZnO NC DSSC are insensitive to light intensity. The interesting
results suggest that the shells and spines of the ZnO NCs possess a superior crystallinity to the primary NWs.
Fewer traps exist in the RT-synthesized hierarchical nanostructures on the NWs. As a result, in the ZnO NC
46
NC-20/600 DSSC compared to the ZnO NC-20 cell is mainly ascribed to the significantly lower surface area
for dye adsorption by reducing the density of the spines on the anode after annealing. Moreover, the shunt
resistance of the ZnO NC-20/600 DSSC is even slightly less than that of the ZnO NW DSSC as shown in
Figures 4(a) and 5(c), resulting in the poor FF and Voc of the ZnO NC-20/600 DSSC. The higher shunt
resistance in the ZnO NC-20 DSSC compared to the ZnO NC-20/600 cell demonstrates again the
well-dye-match surface of the RT hierarchical nanostructures in the ZnO NC-20 anode. The shunt resistance
and therefore FF of DSSCs are decreased once the RT hierarchical nanostructures are destroyed.
ZnO nanostructures derived from ZnO NC arrays were employed to be the anodes for DSSCs to inspect
the fast electron transport characteristic of the RT hierarchical nanostructures on the ZnO NC anodes. Using
ZnO NC-20 as the substrates, ZnO nanodendrites (NDs) are formed after another CBD in the aqueous solution
of ZnAc and NaOH at 100oC, as shown in Figures 6(a)-(d). The specimens of ZnO ND arrays formed from
the 3.3-m-thick NC arrays through the CBD at 100oC for 30 min (Figures 6(a) and (b)) and 60 min (Figures
6(a) and (b)) are named as ZnO ND-30 and ZnO ND-60, respectively. Figures 6(a)-(d) reveal that
high-density branches are formed on the ZnO NDs after CBD at 100oC. It is obvious that the branches of the
NDs are developed from the spines of the NCs. The branches and the primary NWs are elongated as
increasing the CBD period. Moreover, as shown in the cross-sectional SEM images in Figures 6(b) and (d)
(or the high-magnification images in Figures S1(a) and (b), Supporting Information), the needle-like feature
of the spines evolves to a hexagonal faceted feature with a constant diameter when the branches are elongated.
High-order hierarchical nanostructures were further constructed on ZnO ND-30 by the RT CBD in the stirred
aqueous solution of ZnAc and NaOH for 20 min (named ZnO ND-30/NC-20 henceforth.). Figures 6(e) and
(f) show the top-view and cross-sectional images of ZnO ND-30/NC-20. They reveal that the branches
48
nanostructures, the ZnO ND-30/NC-20 DSSC doesn’t have a higher efficiency than the ZnO NC-20 cell does.
It might ascribed to highly dense nanostructure formed in the bottom portion of the ZnO ND-30/NC-20 anode,
which is not encouraging for dye solution penetration during dye soaking process and electrolyte penetration
for dye regeneration.
3. Conclusions
We have demonstrated the superior photovoltaic and electron transport properties of the D149-sensitized
ZnO NC DSSC. The ZnO NC array is constructed by the CBD of hierarchical nanostructures, i.e. shells and
spines, on the ZnO NW array at RT. Etch pits were found to be initially formed on the NWs in the CBD
solution with a high concentration of NaOH. In the absence of seeds and organic structure-directing agents,
the shell is epitaxially grown on the surface of primary NW and the spine is developed from the etch pit on the
NW during the RT CBD. Compared to the ZnO NW one, the ZnO NC anode possesses larger surface area
with well-dye-matched characteristic, resulting in the superior Jsc, FF and therefore efficiency of the ZnO NC
DSSC. A DSSC efficiency of 3.32% is obtained using a 3.3-m-thick and D149-sensitized ZnO NC anode.
Nearly 2-fold enhancement of the efficiency of the ZnO NW DSSC is achieved simply by the formation of the
hierarchical nanostructures at RT for 20 min. Moreover, the electron transport rate in the ZnO NC anode is
faster than that in ZnO NW anode, indicating that the RT-synthesized hierarchical nanostructures have
superior crystallinity to the primary NWs and electrons diffuse to transparent conducting oxide via the
electron transport pathway of the hierarchical nanostructures instead of the primary NWs.
50
AM 1.5 simulated sunlight at 100 mWcm-2 (300 W, Model 91160A, Oriel). The exposed area is 0.16 cm2
for all cells. IMPS measurements were conducted under a modulated green LED light (530 nm) driven by a
source supply (Zahner, PP210) and a potentiostat (Zaher, IM6ex) with a frequency response analyzer (FRA).
The light intensity modulation was 20% of the base light intensity over the frequency range of 10-1-104 Hz.
The illumination intensity is variable in the range of 30-90 mWcm-2. The method for extraction of electron
transit times of the DSSCs from the IMPS responses has been described in detail elsewhere [9].
Acknowledgements
The authors thank Wen-Pin Liao for his technical assistance. Financial supports from the National Science
Council and the Bureau of Energy, Ministry of Economic Affairs in Taiwan under Contract No. NSC
99-2221-E-006-198-MY3 and 99-D0204-2, respectively, are gratefully acknowledged. Supporting
Information is available online from Wiley InterScience or from the author.
52
_[15] T. Oekermann, T. Yoshida, H. Minoura, K. G. U. Wijayantha, L. M. Peter, J. Phys. Chem. B 2004,
108, 8364.
54
Figure 2. (a) HRTEM image and the corresponding SAED of the as-prepared ZnO NW. (b) TEM and (c)
HRTEM images and the corresponding SAEDs of the ZnO NW after immersed in the RT CBD solution for 2
min.
56
Figure 4. (a) J-V characteristics of the ZnO NW, ZnO NC-5 and ZnO NC-20 DSSCs. (b) Dynamics of charge
transport in the three DSSCs.
58
Figure 6. Top-view and cross-sectional SEM images of ZnO ND-30 (a), (b); ZnO ND-60 (c), (d) and ZnO
ND-30/NC-20 (e), (f).
60
Table 1. Photovoltaic Properties of D149-sensitized (a) ZnO NW, (b) ZnO NC-5, (c) ZnO NC-20 and (d)
ZnO NC-20/600 DSSCs with an anode thickness of 3.3m.
DSSCs
Voc
(V)
Jsc
(mAcm-2)
F.F. (%)
(a) 0.62 5.07 0.58 1.82
(b) 0.66 5.80 0.71 2.73
(c) 0.66 7.20 0.70 3.32
(d) 0.61 4.92 0.54 1.62
62
Supporting Information
Figure S1 Cross-sectional and high-magnification SEM images of (a) ZnO ND-30 and (b) ZnO ND-60
arrays.
64
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限）
本研究以製程簡單且便宜的濕式化學方式法製備氧化鋅三維複合奈米結構，成功地建構一
高密度的氧化鋅三維單晶網絡，並於其空隙中成長氧化鋅奈米顆粒。在相同的電極厚度
時，利用此氧化鋅三維複合奈米電極組裝的染料敏化太陽能電池，比二氧化鈦奈米顆粒染
料敏化太陽能電池有更佳的效率。由於此複合奈米電極中的氧化鋅奈米樹枝狀結構建構了
一個三維單晶的網絡，有效提升電子傳輸速度，再加上其中的奈米顆粒提供了高表面積，
有利於染料吸附與光電子的產生，因此成就了氧化鋅三維奈米複合染料敏化太陽能電池的
高效能。另外，本研究製備之三維氧化鋅複合奈米結構，具高表面積的氧化鋅奈米顆粒與
高密度的氧化鋅三維單晶網絡，分別有利於增進介面反應與提高電子傳輸。因此此種結構
非常適合作為各式元件之電極。
Ln ¼ c1Lð
toc
tsc
Þ
1
2 ¼ c1Lf ð3Þ
where c1 is a constant and f is the square root of the ratio of
the electron recombination time to transit time.
In the present work, intensity-modulated photocurrent spec-
troscopy (IMPS) and intensity-modulated photovoltage spec-
troscopy (IMVS) are employed to measure the dynamics of
electron transport and recombination in the ZnO NW array/NP
composite DSSCs. The roles of the vertical ZnO NW array and
insulating LBZA in the electron collection efficiency and elec-
tron diffusion length in the ZnO NW array/NP composite DSSC
are investigated by comparing the IMPS and IMVS results to
those in the TiO2–NP, horizontal TiO2–NW and vertical ZnO–
NW-array DSSCs.
2. Results and Discussion
Fabrications of the four types of DSSCs, shown in Figure 1,
have been described in detail elsewhere.[6,7,11] It has been dem-
onstrated that more abundant electron interfacial recombina-
tion occurs in the Ru complex dye-sensitized ZnO DSSC due to
the higher surface trap density in the ZnO photoanode after
such dye adsorption.[12] To have optimized performances of the
cells, mercurochrome (C20H8Br2HgNa2O) dyes were employed
to be the sensitizer for the ZnO-based DSSCs whereas the TiO2
anodes were sensitized using N719 [(Bu4N)2Ru ACHTUNGTRENNUNG(dcbpyH)2ACHTUNGTRENNUNG(NCS)2]
which was designed for TiO2 DSSCs.
[6] The anode thicknesses
of the four cells are 50.2 mm.
The photocurrent density–voltage characteristics of the ZnO
NW array/NP composite, vertical ZnO–NW array, TiO2–NP, and
horizontal TiO2–NW DSSCs under the AM1.5 illumination at
100 mWcm2 are shown in Figure 2. Their performances are
summarized in Table 1. Among the four cells, the efficiency (h)
of the N719 sensitized TiO2-NP DSSC is superior to the others
which results from the high light harvesting efficiency by the
high surface area of the TiO2 NP anode for dye adsorption as
well as the wide absorptive wavelength of the N719 dye. On
the other hand, the ZnO–NW array DSSC possesses the worst h
due to the insufficient surface area of the NW-array for dye ad-
sorption.[4] As listed in Table 1, a considerable enrichment of
the short-circuit current density (Jsc) and thus h of the ZnO–
NW array DSSC is achieved by the bottom-up growth of NPs
with the interstices of the vertical ZnO–NW array, that is, the
ZnO NW–array/NP composite DSSC. From previous EIS meas-
urements,[6] a superior Deff in the ZnO–NW array/NP composite
cell is observed compared to that of the TiO2–NP one. The infe-
rior efficiency of the ZnO–NW array/NP composite cell is
mainly limited to the issue of dye.
Typical IMPS and IMVS responses of the four DSSCs are illus-
trated in Figures 3a and b which were taken under an illumi-
nation of 530 nm and 90 mWcm2. Figure 3a shows that the
IMPS plots go towards the negative real/negative imaginary
quadrant at high frequency; this is due to the RC attenuation
as shown in Equation (4). Light intensity dependence of dy-
namics of electron transport and recombination in the four
types of DSSCs obtained from IMPS and IMVS measurements
are shown in Figure 4. It reveals that the electron transport
rates of the four cells measured by IMPS are in order of hori-
zontal TiO2–NW <TiO2–NP <ZnO–NW array/NP composite <
vertical ZnO-NW array, which is consistent with that of Deff in
the four anodes obtained from EIS measurements.[6,11] Al-
though ZnO NWs and TiO2 NWs both possess single crystalline
Figure 1. Schematics of the a) ZnO NW array/NP composite, b) vertical ZnO–
NW array, c) TiO2–NP and d) horizontal TiO2–NW DSSCs.
Figure 2. Current density (J) vs voltage (V) characteristics of the cells shown
in Figure 1 with an anode thickness of 50.2 mm.
Table 1. Performances of the ZnO NW array/NP composite, vertical ZnO–
NW, TiO2–NP and horizontal TiO2–NW DSSCs.
[a]
DSSC Jsc [mAcm
2] F.F. Voc [V] h [%]
ZnO NW-array/NP Composite 4.5 0.59 0.64 1.7
vertical ZnO–NW 2.4 0.48 0.52 0.6
TiO2–NP 10.5 0.69 0.64 4.6
Horizontal TiO2–NW 4.0 0.75 0.65 1.9
[a] Jsc, Voc, F.F. , and h are the short-circuit current density, open-circuit volt-
age, fill factor, and efficiency of the cells, respectively.
ChemPhysChem 2009, 10, 2698 – 2702  2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH&Co. KGaA, Weinheim www.chemphyschem.org 2699
Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells
NW DSSC, hc in the other three cells are very close to unity at
an anode thickness of 5 mm. Since the electron lifetimes in the
horizontal TiO2–NW are slightly larger than those in TiO2–NP
anode, as shown in Figure 4, the worst hc in the TiO2–NW
anode is mainly ascribed to its large transit time as the hori-
zontal feature. The higher overall efficiency of the horizontal
TiO2–NW DSSC compared to those of the ZnO-based DSSCs is
due to the superior LHE of N719 to that of mercurochrome.
Moreover, as shown in Table 2, the vertical ZnO–NW DSSC ex-
hibits the largest f, however, the horizontal TiO2–NW DSSC has
the smallest one among the four cells. It indicates the impor-
tance of the vertical feature of the NWs on the effective diffu-
sion length in DSSCs based on Equation (3). Again, the hori-
zontal TiO2–NW anode possesses a larger transit time and re-
sults in its much smaller Ln compared to that of the TiO2–NP
one. It is consistent with the results that the optimal anode
thickness of the horizontal TiO2–NW DSSC (5.6 mm) is thinner
than that of the TiO2–NP cell (10.2 mm).
[11] On the other hand,
the insufficient surface area of the ZnO–NW anode implies that
a very long length is needed to achieve a high efficient cell. It
is not realistic compared to the technique already developed
for the high-surface-area TiO2 anode. Apart from the ZnO–NW
DSSC, the ZnO–NW array/NP composite DSSC possesses superi-
or f to the TiO2–NP DSSC. f of the ZnO–NW array/NP composite
DSSC are threefold larger than those in the TiO2–NP cell, result-
ing from that the existences of the ZnO NWs and insulating
LBZA in the composite anode enhance the electron transport
rate and the electron lifetime, respectively. The higher f indi-
cates that the ZnO–NW array/NP composite anode is able to
sustain efficient electron collection over much greater thick-
ness than the TiO2–NP cell does, that is, the useful thickness of
the ZnO–NW array/NP composite photoanode shall be greater
than that of TiO2–NP anode.
3. Conclusions
The roles of the vertical ZnO NWs and insulating LBZA in elec-
tron collection and transport in the ZnO NW array–ZnO/LBZA
NP composite DSSC were investigated by comparing the IMPS
and IMVS results to those of the TiO2–NP, horizontal TiO2–NW
and vertical ZnO–NW array DSSCs. Due to the presences of the
vertical ZnO NWs and insulating LBZA, the ZnO NW/NP com-
posite DSSC possesses the electron transport rate and electron
lifetime superior to the conventional TiO2–NP and horizontal
TiO2–NW DSSCs. Apart from the horizontal TiO2–NW DSSC, hc
in the other three cells are very
close to unity at an anode thick-
ness of 5 mm. On the other
hand, f of the ZnO–NW array/NP
composite DSSC is threefold
larger than that in the conven-
tional TiO2–NP cell, indicating
that a larger effective diffusion
length than that of the TiO2–NP
cell is available in the ZnO–NW
array/NP composite DSSC.
Experimental Section
Fabrications of the four types of DSSCs, as shown in Figure 1, have
been described in detail elsewhere.[6, 7,11] IMPS and IMVS measure-
ments were performed under a modulated green LED light
(530 nm) driven by a source supply (Zahner, PP210) and a poten-
tiostat (Zaher, IM6ex) with a frequency response analyzer (FRA).
The illumination intensity ranges from 30–90 mWcm2. The light
intensity modulation was 20% of the base light intensity over the
frequency range of 102–104 Hz. The amplitudes and phase shifts
of the modulated short-circuit photocurrent and open-circuit volt-
age relative to the modulated illumination were measured by FRA
through combining the signals from PP210 and IM6eX for IMPS
and IMVS.
The measured IMPS response at high frequency is affected by RC
attenuation (R : cell series resistance and C : photoelectrode capaci-
tance)[10] that limits the dynamical response of the photocell. The
effect is suggested to be corrected by an attenuation function of
A(w):[9,10]
AðwÞ ¼ 1 iwRC
1þ w2R2C2 ð4Þ
The measured IMPS and IMVS responses take the forms:[8]
yIMPS;ext wð Þ ¼ DJsc  A wð Þ
¼ qI0a
g2  a2
2a exp adð Þ  a gð Þ exp gdð Þ  aþ gð Þ exp gdð Þ
exp gdð Þ þ exp gdð Þ
 
1 iwRC
1þ w2R2C2
 
ð5Þ
yIMVS;ext wð Þ ¼ DVoc
¼ I0a
kr mDcba2 þ iw 1þ
a
g
2 exp adð Þ  exp gdð Þ  exp gdð Þ
exp gdð Þ þ exp gdð Þ
 
ð6Þ
where DJsc is the photocurrent conversion efficiency, DVoc is the
photovoltage conversion efficiency, w is the circular frequency of
the light modulation, a is the light-absorption coefficient of the
cell, Io is the incident photon flux, f accounts for reflection losses,
g ¼ ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃkr þ iwð Þ= mDcbð Þ
p
is the charge-injection efficiency, d is the
thickness of the anode, kr is the rate constant for recombination,
Dcb is the diffusion coefficient of electrons in the conduction band,
m is ncb/n, and n is the sum of the photoinduced electron concen-
tration in the conduction band, ncb, and in trap states. The cell
series resistance and photoelectrode capacitance of the DSSCs
were extracted from EIS measurements in this study. To determine
Table 2. hc and f of the four DSSCs estimated from IMPV and IMVS measurements at light intensities of (I) 90,
(II) 70, (III) 50, and (IV) 30 mWcm2.
DSSC hc f
(I) (II) ACHTUNGTRENNUNG(III) (IV) (I) (II) ACHTUNGTRENNUNG(III) (IV)
ZnO NW/NP Compostie ~1 ~1 ~1 0.99 23.2 18.1 14.9 12.6
Vertical ZnO–NW ~1 ~1 ~1 ~1 36.6 39.5 41.9 45.0
TiO2–NP 0.98 0.97 0.95 0.92 8.0 5.8 4.7 3.5
Horizontal TiO2–NW 0.69 0.61 0.48 0.36 1.8 1.6 1.4 1.3
ChemPhysChem 2009, 10, 2698 – 2702  2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH&Co. KGaA, Weinheim www.chemphyschem.org 2701
Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells
CuInS2 nanotube array on indium tin oxide: synthesis and
photoelectrochemical propertiesw
Jih-Jen Wu,* Wan-Ting Jiang and Wen-Pin Liao
Received 10th May 2010, Accepted 25th June 2010
DOI: 10.1039/c0cc01314e
CuInS2 nanotube (NT) arrays were synthesized on indium tin
oxide (ITO) substrates for the ﬁrst time using a successive ionic
layer absorption and reaction (SILAR) process with self-
dissolved ZnO nanowire (NW) templates. The p-type CuInS2
NT array shows promising conversion eﬃciency in a photo-
electrochemical cell with polysulﬁde electrolyte.
I-III-VI2 chalcopyrite compounds have attracted considerable
attention because of their excellent photovoltaic properties.1,2
Conversion eﬃciencies of thin-ﬁlm solar cells based on I-III-VI2
chalcopyrite compounds have been substantially enhanced.
Cu(In,Ga)Se2 thin-ﬁlm solar cells can reach an eﬃciency of
19.4%.3 Another I-III-VI2 chalcopyrite compound, copper
indium disulﬁde (CuInS2, CIS), possesses a band gap of
B1.53 eV, which is well-matched to the solar spectrum,
and a high absorption coeﬃcient (105 cm1).4–6 Without the
concerns for the toxicity of Se, CuInS2 has been recognized as
a promising material for solar energy application as well.
Nanostructured solar cells with large interfacial areas are
expected to facilitate light absorption and charge separation,
the two critical steps for solar-to-electric energy conversion.
Therefore, synthesis of nanostructured CuInS2 for solar cell
application is also of growing interest recently.7–9 Nanu et al.
employed atomic layer chemical vapor deposition7 and spray
deposition8 to inﬁltrate CIS into the porous TiO2 layers for
fabricating three-dimensional solar cells. Li et al. used a
solution-based process to deposit CIS nanocrystalline ﬁlm
and CdS buﬀer layer on ITO for the fabrication of a thin-ﬁlm
CIS/CdS solar cell.9 In the present work, CIS NT arrays are
formed via self-dissolved templates of ZnO NW arrays using
a SILAR process. The p-type CuInS2 NT array shows a
conversion eﬃciency of 0.47% in a two-electrode photo-
electrochemical cell with polysulﬁde electrolyte.
Chemical bath deposition (CBD) of ZnO NW arrays on
ITO substrates has been described in detail elsewhere.10,11
Fig. 1(a) and (b) show typical scanning electron microscopy
(SEM) images of the 3-mm ZnO NW array grown on the ITO
substrate. The diameters of the NWs are in the range of
30–80 nm as revealed in the top-view image of Fig. 1(a).
It has been shown that the ZnO NW possesses single-crystalline
structure and grows along the c-axis direction.10,11 SILAR
deposition of copper indium sulﬁde was subsequently performed
on the ZnO NW array/ITO substrate at room temperature.
The SILAR system was equipped with three chemical vessels
containing precursor solutions of 0.1 M In2(SO4)3, 0.075 M
Na2S/buﬀer, 0.01 M Cu2SO4 aqueous solutions and another
two vessels of ﬂowing rinsing Millipore water with a ﬂow rate
of 200 ml min1 for cation and anion rinsing separately.
A buﬀer composed of 0.1 M KH2(PO4) and 0.1 M NaOH is
employed to adjust the pH value of the Na2S solution to 11.3.
One SILAR cycle for copper indium sulﬁde deposition consists
of 8 steps: (1) immersing the sample into In ion precursor
solution for 60 s, (2) rinsing the sample in the cation rinsing
bath for 30 s, (3) immersing the sample into S ion precursor
solution for 240 s, (4) rinsing the sample in the anion rinsing
bath for 30 s, (5) immersing the sample into Cu ion precursor
solution for 20 s, (6) rinsing the sample in the cation rinsing
bath for 30 s, (7) immersing the sample into S precursor
solution for 240 s and (8) rinsing the sample in the anion
rinsing bath for 30 s.
After 3-cycle deposition, the color of the sample became
brown. An array with NT feature instead of the previous NW
one was formed on the substrate as shown in Fig. 1(c) and (d).
The length of the NT array is shortened to be B2.8 mm
and the diameters of the NT are in the range of 70–100 nm.
The reﬂection spectra of the ZnO NW array and as-deposited
NT array are shown in Fig. 2. The absorption edge of
the as-deposited NT array is at B550 nm, which is
signiﬁcantly diﬀerent from that of the ZnO NW array.
However, compared to the absorption edge of CuInS2
at 800 nm, the blue-shifted absorption edge suggests the
inappropriate stoichiometry of the as-deposited NT array.
Energy dispersive spectrometry (EDS) analysis shows that the
Fig. 1 (a) Top- and (b) cross-sectional SEM images of the ZnO NW
array on the ITO substrate. (c) Top- and (d) cross-sectional SEM
images of the CuInS2 NT array on the ITO substrate.
Department of Chemical Engineering, National Cheng Kung
University, Tainan, 701, Taiwan. E-mail: wujj@mail.ncku.edu.tw
w Electronic supplementary information (ESI) available: EDS spectra
of nanotube arrays; typical HRTEM image of the CuInS2 nanotube.
See DOI: 10.1039/c0cc01314e
This journal is c The Royal Society of Chemistry 2010 Chem. Commun., 2010, 46, 5885–5887 | 5885
COMMUNICATION www.rsc.org/chemcomm | ChemComm
in a three-electrode electrochemical system with 0.1 MNa2SO4(aq)
electrolyte. The counter and reference electrodes are a platinum
wire and Ag/AgCl, saturated KCl, respectively. Fig. 4(a)
shows the Mott–Schottky plot of the CuInS2 NT array
measured in the three-electrode electrochemical cell. As illustrated
in Fig. 4(a), the negative slope of the Mott–Schottky plot
conﬁrms the formation of a p-type CuInS2 NT array.
For fabricating a photoelectrochemical cell (PECC), the
CuInS2 NT array/ITO electrode and platinized ITO counter
electrodes were sandwiched together with 25-mm-thick hot-melt
spacers. The liquid electrolyte solution was introduced between
the photoelectrode and counter electrodes by capillary action.
The polysulﬁde electrolyte solution composed of 0.5 M Na2S,
0.125 M S and 0.1 M KCl in a 3 : 2 volume ratio of methanol
and water was employed for the CuInS2 NT array PECC.
Photovoltaic characteristics of the PECCs were measured
using a source meter (Keithley 2400 SourceMeter) under
AM 1.5 simulated sunlight at 100 mW cm2 (300 W, Model
91160A, Oriel). Fig. 4(b) shows the photocurrent density
(J)–voltage (V) characteristic of the CuInS2 NT array PECC
under AM 1.5 illumination at 100 mW cm2. A conversion
eﬃciency Z= 0.47% with Voc = 0.33 V, Jsc = 5.52 mA cm
2
and FF = 0.26 is attained. The pronounced photovoltaic
behavior of the p-type CuInS2 NT array is ascribed to its large
surface area, appropriate light harvesting and charge transport
properties.
In summary, formation of the CuInS2 NT array is achieved
on the ITO substrate using a ZnO-NW-template assisted
method. Deposition of copper indium sulﬁde is conducted
on the ZnO NW array/ITO substrate using the SILAR
process. Since the ZnO-NW template is dissolved in the strong
acidic and strong basic precursor solutions at the same time,
the NT array can be thus formed after an appropriate SILAR
process. The reﬂection spectrum of the sulfur-annealed NT
array shows an absorption edge at around 800 nm. XRD and
TEM characterizations reveal the polycrystalline structure of
the CuInS2 NT. Mott–Schottky measurement demonstrates
the formation of a p-type CuInS2 NT array. The p-type
CuInS2 NT array shows a conversion eﬃciency of 0.47% in
a two-electrode photoelectrochemical cell with polysulﬁde
electrolyte.
Financial support from the National Science Council and
the Bureau of Energy, Ministry of Economic Aﬀairs in Taiwan
under Contract Nos. NSC 96-2628-E006-017-MY3 and
98-D0204-2, respectively, is gratefully acknowledged.
Notes and references
1 T. Todorov and D. B. Mitzi, Eur. J. Inorg. Chem., 2010, 17–28.
2 M. Kemell, M. Ritala and M. Leskela, Crit. Rev. Solid State
Mater. Sci., 2005, 30, 1–31.
3 M. A. Green, K. Emery, Y. Hishikawa and W. Warta, Progr.
Photovolt.: Res. Appl., 2009, 17, 320–326.
4 S. L. Castro, S. G. Bailey, R. P. Raﬀaelle, K. K. Banger and
A. F. Hepp, Chem. Mater., 2003, 15, 3142–3147.
5 H. J. Lewerenz, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells, 2004, 83, 395–407.
6 R. Klenk, J. Klaer, R. Scheer, M. Ch. Lux-Steiner, I. Luck,
N. Meyer and U. Ruhle, Thin Solid Films, 2005, 480–481, 509–514.
7 M. Nanu, J. Schoonman and A. Goossens, Adv. Funct. Mater.,
2005, 15, 95–100.
8 M. Nanu, J. Schoonman and A. Goossens, Nano Lett., 2005, 5,
1716–1719.
9 L. Li, N. Coates and D. Moses, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2010, 132,
22–23.
10 C.-H. Ku and J.-J. Wu, Nanotechnology, 2007, 18, 505706.
11 C.-H. Ku and J.-J. Wu, Cryst. Growth Des., 2008, 8, 283–290.
12 Y. Xia, P. Yang, Y. Sun, Y. Wu, B. Mayers, B. Gates, Y. Yin,
F. Kim and H. Yan, Adv. Mater., 2003, 15, 353–389.
Fig. 4 (a) Mott–Schottky plot of the CuInS2 NT array. (b) J–V plot
characteristic of the CuInS2 NT array PECC.
This journal is c The Royal Society of Chemistry 2010 Chem. Commun., 2010, 46, 5885–5887 | 5887
In order to reflect the lights passing through the
free space between NWs back to the NW electrode por-
tion, the light-scattering material in the NW DSSCs
needs to exhibit a reflection index higher than that of
the electrolyte which occupies the free space between
NWs. The reflection indexes of the conventional electro-
lytes are1.4 in DSSCs. In addition, to examine the con-
cept of the enhancement of the light-harvesting effi-
ciency of NWDSSCs by the sole mechanism of reflecting
unabsorbed photons back into the NW anode, the light-
scattering layer which does not directly contribute photo-
current in the ZnO NW DSSCs is highly desired in the
present work. To construct such “pure” light-scattering
layer, one should employ a semiconductor material
with lower conduction band edge compared to that of
ZnO. The photoelectrons in the light-scattering layer,
which inject from the adsorbed dye molecules, are
therefore unable to efficiently transport to the ZnO
NW anode. For aforementioned criteria, SnO2 that pos-
sesses the reflection index of2.017 and the conduction
band edge lower than that of ZnO18 is the potential can-
didate for the light-scattering material in the ZnO NW
DSSCs.
Due to its continuously one-dimensional and hori-
zontal configuration, in the present work, the electro-
spun SnO2/ZnO nanofibers are employed to be the
light-scattering matter on the ZnO NW anode. The
SnO2/ZnO nanofibers, instead of pure SnO2 nanofibers,
are employed to improve the adhesion between the
nanofibers and ZnO NWs. Moreover, by utilizing the
polar-solvent-soluble characteristic of the polymer
matrix,12,13 a continuous nanofilm on the top of the
ZnO NW array is obtained via methanol vapor treat-
ment followed by a high-temperature calcination. The
schematics of the nanofiber/ZnO NW and nano-
film/ZnO NW anodes are illustrated in Figure 1. A signifi-
cant enrichment of the efficiency of ZnO NW DSSCs is
achieved by the addition of the light-scattering nano-
film. The mechanism of photocurrent enhancement in
the nanofilm/ZnO NW DSSCs has been investigated us-
ing optical modulation spectroscopy.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
Porous nanofibers composed of SnO2/ZnO nano-
crystals can be produced by the calcination of electro-
spun and polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP)-hosted SnO2/ZnO
nanofibers (Figure S1, Supporting Information). High-
density PVP-hosted SnO2/ZnO nanofibers are further
electrospun on the top of ZnO NW arrays to construct
nanocomposite photoanodes for use in DSSCs. Figure
2a,b shows the top-view and cross-sectional scanning
electron microscopy (SEM) images of the electrospun
nanofibers on the ZnO NW array after calcination at 600
°C, respectively. A broad diameter distribution of the
nanofibers on the ZnO NW array is observed in Figure
2a. The diameter of the PVP-hosted nanofiber increases
slightly with time as a result of absorbing moisture by
the polymer matrix of hydrophilic (polar-solvent-
soluble) PVP12,13 before calcination. The nanofibers elec-
trospun earlier swell more than those electrospun later.
Figure 1. Schematics of (a) ZnO NW, (b) nanofiber/ZnO NW, and (c) nano-
film/ZnO NW anodes.
Figure 2. (a) Top-view and (b) cross-sectional SEM images of nanofibers on the ZnO NW array; (c) top-view and (d) cross-
sectional SEM images of the nanofilm on ZnO NW array. The scale bar in the inset of (c) is 500 nm.
A
RT
IC
LE
VOL. 4 ▪ NO. 10 ▪ WU ET AL. www.acsnano.org5680
ZnO NW DSSCs are achieved by forming nanofibers
and nanofilm on the top of the ZnO NW anode, respec-
tively, which are ascribed to the enhancement of the
light-harvesting efficiency of the photoanode. A more
significant enrichment of Jsc is achieved in the nano-
film/ZnO NW DSSCs as a result of the coverage of the
nanofilm being larger than that of the nanofiber layer
on the ZnO NW array, as shown in Figure 2a,c. In addi-
tion to the enrichment of Jsc, the open-circuit voltage
(Voc) and fill factor (FF) of ZnO NW DSSCs are also im-
proved by the formation of nanofibers or nanofilm on
the top of the ZnO NW anode. The increments of Voc
and FF in the nanofilm/ZnO NWDSSCs compared to the
ZnO NW DSSCs are 29 and 11%, respectively. Combin-
ing the enhancements of Jsc, Voc, and FF, a 74% improve-
ment of the efficiency () of the ZnO NW is achieved
by the addition of the light-scattering nanofilm. Figure
5b illustrates the IPCE spectra as a function of wave-
length for the nanofilm/ZnO NW and ZnO NW DSSCs.
The nanofilm/ZnO NW DSSC shows a superior photo-
electrical response to ZnO NW DSSCs in the wave-
lengths ranging from 400 to 650 nm.
SnO2/ZnO nanofiber and SnO2/ZnO nanofilm DSSCs
are further fabricated to examine the photovoltaic
properties of the nanofiber and nanofilm DSSCs in the
absence of the ZnO NWs. Typical top-view and cross-
sectional-view SEM images of the SnO2/ZnO nanofibers
and nanofilms on FTO substrates are shown in Figure
S2 (Supporting Information), revealing similar features
to those formed on ZnO NW arrays as displayed in Fig-
ure 2. Figure 6 shows the JV characteristics of the
SnO2/ZnO nanofiber and nanofilm DSSCs under the
AM-1.5 illumination at 100 mW/cm2. The SnO2/ZnO
nanofiber DSSC possesses rather low Jsc and , which
may result from the poor interface between nanofibers
and FTO substrate. On the other hand, with a film thick-
ness of 100 nm, the SnO2/ZnO nanofilm DSSC per-
forms as an efficient solar cell with the Jsc and  of 1.81
mA cm2 and 0.49, respectively.
Voc is fundamentally corresponding to the differ-
ence of the Fermi level of anode and the redox poten-
tial of electrolyte.19 With nanofibers or nanofilm on the
top of ZnO NW anode, the higher concentration of photo-
electron on the conduction band, that is, larger photo-
current as shown in Figure 5a, elevates the quasi-Fermi
level of the ZnO NW anode, which could result in larger
Voc in the nanofiber/ZnO NW and nanofilm/ZnO NW
DSSCs. On the other hand, we can not rule out other in-
fluences of the SnO2/ZnO nanofilm on the Voc of nano-
film/ZnO NW DSSC since the Voc of nanofilm DSSC is
considerably larger than that of the ZnO NW cell. There
are two possible mechanisms for the improvement of
light-harvesting efficiency by the nanofibers and nano-
film on the top of ZnO NW anode. One is that the sur-
face area of the anode is increased by the addition of
nanofibers or nanofilm, which results in a higher
amount of dye adsorption and therefore higher Jsc.
The other one is that the nanofibers and nanofilm per-
form as the light-scattering matter on the top of ZnO
NW anodes to enhance light-harvesting efficiency.
Since the nanofibers and nanofilm are composed of
SnO2/ZnO nanocrystals and the conduction band mini-
mum of SnO2 is lower than that of ZnO,18 the photoelec-
trons injected into the nanofibers and nanofilm are un-
able to efficiently transport to the ZnO NW anode.
Figure 5. (a) JV characteristics of the ZnO NW, nanofiber/ZnO
NW, and nanofilm/ZnO NW DSSCs. (b) IPCE spectra of the nano-
film/ZnO NW and ZnO NW DSSCs.
Figure 6. JV characteristics of the SnO2/ZnO nanofiber and
SnO2/ZnO nanofilm DSSCs.
A
RT
IC
LE
VOL. 4 ▪ NO. 10 ▪ WU ET AL. www.acsnano.org5682
ment of the efficiency of the ZnO NWDSSC by the light-
scattering layer of nanofilm is mainly attributed to the
successful reflection of unabsorbed photons back into
the NW anode.
EXPERIMENTAL METHODS
Formation of ZnO NW arrays on fluorine-doped tin oxide
(FTO) substrates has been described in detail elsewhere.8 The
lengths of the NWs are 3 m for the fabrication of DSSCs.
Polymer-hosted SnO2/ZnO nanofibers were directly electrospun
onto the collector or ZnO NW array using a methanolic solution
of 0.15 g/mL polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP,Mw 1 300 000, Aldrich),
0.1 M ZnAc2 · 2H2O, 0.05 M SnCl4 · 5H2O, and 1.3 M tert-
butylamine (TBA). An electrical potential of 15 kV was applied
across the syringe and collector with a distance of 9 cm. SnO2/
ZnO nanofibers were obtained after the calcination of PVP-
hosted nanofibers at 600 °C for 1 h. To construct the SnO2/ZnO
nanofilm on the top of ZnO NW array, as-electrospun nanofibers
on the ZnO NW array were treated in a methanol vapor ambi-
ance at room temperature for 10 min followed by calcination at
600 °C for 1 h. The morphologies of the nanostructures were ex-
amined using SEM (JEOL JSM-7000F). The crystal structures of
the nanofibers and nanofilms were investigated using XRD
(Rigaku D/MAX-2000 and Rigaku D/MAX-2500) and TEM (JEOL
2100F). Optical reflectance of the nanostructures were measured
using a UVvisNIR spectrophotometer (JASCO V-670)
equipped with an integrating sphere. The incident light enters
from FTO glass into the nanostructures.
D149 dye (Mitsubishi Paper Mills, Ltd.) was used to sensitize
the ZnO-based electrodes. Dye adsorption was carried out by im-
mersing the anode in a 1  105 M acetonitrile/t-butyl alcohol
(1:1) solution of D149 at 80 °C for 1 h. The sensitized electrode
and platinized FTO counter electrodes were sandwiched to-
gether with 25 m thick hot-melt spacers (SX 1170-25, Solaronix
SA). Liquid electrolyte solutions composed of 0.5 M Pr4NI and
50 mM I2 in a 1:4 volume ratio of ethylene carbonate and aceto-
nitrile were employed for the D149-sensitized DSSCs. Photo-
voltaic characteristics of the DSSCs were measured under AM-
1.5 simulated sunlight at 100 mW cm2 (300 W, Model 91160A,
Oriel). The exposed area is 0.16 cm2 for all cells.
IMPS measurements were performed under a modulated
green LED light (530 nm) driven by a source supply (Zahner,
PP210) and a potentiostat (Zaher, IM6ex) with a frequency re-
sponse analyzer (FRA). The illumination intensity ranged from 30
to 90 mW cm2. The light intensity modulation was 20% of the
base light intensity over the frequency range of 101104 Hz.
The amplitudes and phase shifts of the modulated short-circuit
photocurrents relative to the modulated illumination were mea-
sured by FRA by combining the signals from PP210 and IM6eX
for IMPS. The method for extraction of transit times of the DSSCs
from the IMPS responses has been described in detail else-
where.5
Acknowledgment. Financial support from the National Sci-
ence Council and the Bureau of Energy, Ministry of Economic Af-
fairs in Taiwan under Contract No. NSC 96-2628-E006-017-MY3
and 98-D0204-2, respectively, is gratefully acknowledged.
Supporting Information Available: Characterization of SnO2/
ZnO nanofibers prepared by electrospinning, SEM images of
nanofibers and nanofilm on FTO substrates, and possible rea-
son for the significant increase of constant transit times in the
nanofilm/ZnO NW DSSC. This material is available free of charge
via the Internet at http://pubs.acs.org.
REFERENCES AND NOTES
1. Gra¨tzel, M. Recent Advances in Sensitized Mesoscopic
Solar Cells. Acc. Chem. Res. 2009, 42, 1788–1798.
2. Barbe, C. J.; Arendse, F.; Comte, P.; Jirousek, M.; Lenzmann,
F.; Shklover, V.; Gra¨tzel, M. Nanocrystalline Titanium Oxide
Electrodes for Photovoltaic Applications. J. Am. Ceram. Soc.
1997, 80, 3157–3171.
3. Law, M.; Greene, L. E.; Johnson, J. C.; Saykally, R.; Yang,
P. D. Nanowire Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells. Nat. Mater.
2005, 4, 455–459.
4. Galoppini, E.; Rochford, J.; Chen, H. H.; Saraf, G.; Lu, Y. C.;
Hagfeldt, A.; Boschloo, G. Fast Electron Transport in Metal
Organic Vapor Deposition Grown Dye-Sensitized ZnO
Nanorod Solar Cells. J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110,
16159–16161.
5. Wong, D. K.-P.; Ku, C.-H.; Chen, Y.-R.; Chen, G.-R.; Wu, J.-J.
Enhancing Electron Collection Efficiency and Effective
Diffusion Length in Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells.
ChemPhysChem 2009, 10, 2698–2702.
6. Baxter, J. B.; Aydil, E. S. Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells Based on
Semiconductor Morphologies with ZnO Nanowires. Sol.
Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 2006, 90, 607–622.
7. Ku, C.-H.; Wu, J.-J. Electron Transport Properties in ZnO
Nanowire Array/Nanoparticle Composite Dye-Sensitized
Solar Cells. Appl. Phys. Lett. 2007, 91, 093117.
8. Ku, C.-H.; Wu, J.-J. Chemical Bath Deposition of ZnO
NanowireNanoparticle Composite Electrodes for Use in
Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells. Nanotechnology 2007, 18,
505706.
9. Rothenberger, G.; Comte, P.; Gra¨tzel, M. A Contribution to
the Optical Design of Dye-Sensitized Nanocrystalline Solar
Cells. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 1999, 58, 321–336.
10. Hore, S.; Vetter, C.; Kern, R.; Smit, H.; Hinsch, A. Influence of
Scattering Layers on Efficiency of Dye-Sensitized Solar
Cells. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 2006, 90, 1176–1188.
11. Zheng, Y.-Z.; Tao, X.; Wang, L.-X.; Xu, H.; Hou, Q.; Zhou, W.-
L.; Chen, J.-F. Novel ZnO-Based Film with Double Light-
Scattering Layers as Photoelectrodes for Enhanced
Efficiency in Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells. Chem. Mater. 2010,
22, 928–934.
12. Li, D.; Xia, Y. Electrospinning of Nanofibers: Reinventing
the Wheel. Adv. Mater. 2004, 16, 1151–1170.
13. Greiner, A.; Wendorff, J. H. Electrospinning: A Fascinating
Method for the Preparation of Ultrathin Fibres. Angew.
Chem., Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 5670–5703.
14. Song, M. Y.; Kim, D. K.; Ihn, K. J.; Jo, S. M.; Kim, D. Y.
Electrospun TiO2 Electrodes for Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells.
Nanotechnology 2004, 15, 1861–1865.
15. Zhang, W.; Zhu, R.; Liu, X.; Liu, B.; Ramakrishna, S. Facile
Construction of Nanofibrous ZnO Photoelectrode for Dye-
Sensitized Solar Cell Applications. Appl. Phys. Lett. 2009,
95, 043304.
16. Chuangchote, S.; Sagawa, T.; Yoshikawa, S. Efficient Dye-
Sensitized Solar Cells Using Electrospun TiO2 Nanofibers as
a Light Harvesting Layer. Appl. Phys. Lett. 2008, 93, 033310.
17. Lide, D. R. CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics, 76th
ed.; CRC Press: NewYork, 1995; pp 4133.
18. Thavasi, V.; Renugopalakrishnan, V.; Jose, R.; Ramakrishna,
S. Controlled Electron Injection and Transport at Materials
Interfaces in Dye Sensitized Solar Cells. Mater. Sci. Eng. R
2009, 63, 81–99.
19. Peter, L. “Sticky Electrons” Transport and Interfacial
Transfer of Electrons in the Dye-Sensitized Solar Cell. Acc.
Chem. Res. 2009, 42, 1839–1847.
20. Martinson, A. B. F.; McGarrah, J. E.; Parpia, M. O. K.; Hupp,
J. T. Dynamics of Charge Transport and Recombination in
ZnO Nanorod Array Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells. Phys. Chem.
Chem. Phys. 2006, 8, 4655–4659.
A
RT
IC
LE
VOL. 4 ▪ NO. 10 ▪ WU ET AL. www.acsnano.org5684
等相關研究成果的發表，後學也都逐一聆聽。另外由於後學也對Graphene的相關
研究有相當的興趣，因此也在Symposium L: Large-Area Electronics from Carbon 
Nanotubes, Graphene, and Related Noncarbon Nanostructures 處聽了許多演講。也
於November 30, 6:30 pm聽了由英國University of Manchester professor Andre K. 
Geim 關於 Graphene的Plenary Session "Materials in Flatland"。而在我們自己的論
文海報發表的時間時，也與各地來的學者們交流意見。 
是非常難得的經驗。 
二、與會心得 
參加MRS Fall Meeting 的人數眾多，尤其後學從事的solar cell的研究領域相關的
幾個symposium 也逐年擴增，因此參加此會議與各地研究者相互切磋，是非常
好的經驗。由於台大凝態中心的林麗瓊教授是今年會議的Meeting Chair，今年台
灣與會學者也很多，也辦了一個台灣之夜的交流會。而後學近年來參加此會議後
都也一些新衝擊與新想法，對未來的研究的幫助非常大。 
96年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：吳季珍 計畫編號：96-2628-E-006-017-MY3 
計畫名稱：三維氧化鋅奈米複合結構之製備及其於太陽能電池與氣體感測器之應用 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 1 1 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 0 100%  
博士生 1 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 3 5 90%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 5 5 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 2 2 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
