 2
follows. Section II describes the method for designing 
an MCS-51-based heat pump system. The control steps 
and methods for protecting the heat pump compressor 
are also given. Experimental results verify the 
performance of the proposed controller in Section III. 
The error checking function is also evaluated. Finally, 
Section IV provides discussions and conclusions.   
 
2. Sensors and MCS-51 controller design 
 
2.1 Sensors 
Heat pumps have many sensors, such as the 
electromagnetic switch, anti-freezing switch, high/low 
pressure switch, thermal relay, phase reversal relay, 
pressure sensor and PT100 sensor that determine the 
status of the heat pump and protect the compressor 
from a malfunctioning heat pump. After the safety 
check of sensors is complete, the heat pump activates 
the compressor to transfer heat. However, controlling 
the heat pump using an 8051 microcontroller must 
consider the problem of power consumption, because 
the sensors have different operating voltages than the 
8051 microcontroller. Generally, an electromagnetic 
switch uses a small voltage, 5V, to control a large 
power load. In the heat pump system, the compressor 
voltage is 220V. The anti-freezing switch is utilized to 
determine the temperature of cold water. When the 
temperature of cold water reaches a set limit, the heat 
pump system stops the compressor, protecting the 
compressor and preventing pipes from freezing when 
the temperature control switch breaks. Moreover, when 
compressor pressure is too high or the amount of 
system refrigerants is insufficient, a high/low pressure 
switch will be activated to protect the heat pump 
system. A thermal relay, also called an overload 
protection relay, collocates with an electromagnetic 
contactor and establishes a control loop. When the 
compressor is overloaded and temperature raises 
unusually, the thermal relay cuts off to prevent 
compressor breakdown. Additionally, the phase relays 
stop supplying power when the phase sequence is 
incorrect. The pressure sensor measures the pressure 
with an output signal of 4–20mA. After linking the 
pressure sensor with a 250-Ω resistor, the output signal 
of pressure sensor is 1–5 V. Three PT-100 sensors, and 
a resistance temperature detector (RTD), are applied to 
determine the water temperature in the three tanks. 
These sensors determine the status of the heat pump 
system (Fig. 3).  
 
2.2 Operating principle 
 
The heat pump moves the calorific capacity 
through compression, expansion, condensation, 
refrigerant evaporation and the heat exchanger. The 
heat pump operates in a manner similar to an air 
conditioner. Because air molecules have kinetic energy, 
a large quantity of gas refrigerants are compressed, 
such that the gas refrigerants become liquid refrigerants. 
After condensing refrigerants into liquid, the heat pump 
moves the calorific capacity of refrigerants into water 
via heat conduction because the refrigerant evaporation 
temperature is very low. Figure 4 shows the other 
procedures of heat transfer. After absorbing heat from 
air, the evaporation and condense processes transfer 
heat into the water in the hot water tank using the 
compressor, fulfilling the heat pump processes.. Thus, 
the heat pump can produce hot water, eliminate 
humidity and generate cold air. Therefore, the heat 
pump has the following three functions: produce hot 
water; generate cold air; and, eliminate humidity. 
During operation, the controller determines the 
temperature of hot water, warm water and cold water. 
When the water temperature exceeds the normal range, 
the compressor will shut down automatically. For 
instance, suppose that the temperature of hot water is 
60°C. If the temperature of hot water is 50°C, the 
compressor will be activated until the temperature 
reaches 60°C. 
 
2.3 8051 controller and hardware circuit designs 
To design an MCS-51-based controller, one must 
determine the status of each sensor and decide whether 
to activate the compressor by the 8051 microprocessor. 
Figure 5 shows the layout of the heat pump on a printed 
circuit board (PCB). The controller is composed of a 
IC89S51, IC8255, IC7407, IC7474, analog-to-digital 
conversion circuit, coupling circuit, PT100 sensor 
circuits, LCD, two switches, and two relays. First, the 
core of the controller is an 89S51 microprocessor, 
which is an 8-bit microprocessor equipped with a 
watchdog timer that prevents the program from 
crashing and damaging the heat pump. The heat pump 
has many sensors. However, because the IC89S51 
microprocessor lacks a sufficient number of I/O ports, 
the IC8255 must be used to expand the number of I/O 
ports for sensors switches in the heat pump system. The 
AD converter, the IC ADC0808 converter, an 8-channel 
analog-to-digital converter, converts analog signals 
from sensors into digital signals for use by the IC89S51. 
The IC7474 connects to the ALE pin of the IC89S51  
and the clock pin of the ADC0808 to reduce the 
frequency. The frequency of the ALE pin of the 
IC89S51 is 2 MHz. After reducing the frequency, the 
IC7474 outputs 500 kHz to the clock pin of the 
ADC0808. The IC7407 is used as a buffer, and can 
increase drive current. Because the output current of the 
IC89S51 is not enough to drive the relays, another 
buffer is needed. The coupling circuit uses the PC847  
to separate small DC current and high-voltage AC 
electricity to prevent disturbances. Generally, input 
devices for the heat pump controller are a high- and 
low-pressure switch, anti-freezing switch, remote 
control sensor, phase reversal relay, thermal relay and 
hot- and cold-water sensor. 
All of these sensors are mechanical devices and 
differ from electrical sensors. For instance, these 
devices do not use an electrical signal to express ON or 
OFF status. The anti-freezing switch, for example, fills 
with refrigerant, and its spring comes off to break the 
circuit when refrigerant temperature is too low. Thus, 
the PC847 connects to the sensors and the IC89S51  
detects sensor signals, which are 0 or 1. Therefore, one 
can determine whether all the sensors are normal. At 
the same time, the supply voltage of a single chip is 
+5V (DC) when the operating voltage of the heat pump 
 4
an output RESET pulse at the RST pin. The processor 
will reset automatically, thereby protecting the heat 
pump system. 
 
3. Experimental results 
A heat pump system is located on the top floor of 
a building at Ching Yun University, Taiwan. The system 
has four main components—(1) a compressor, (2) 
electromagnetic valves, (3) an MCS-51 control circuit, 
and (4) temperature sensors. The compressor 
compresses refrigerants to reduce the volume of 
refrigerants and sends the refrigerants to the condenser, 
evaporator and expansion valve. The electromagnetic 
valve controls the flow of refrigerants. For temperature 
measurements, a PT100 sensor is used. The proposed 
single-chip controller is set on the heat pump main 
machine. This controller controls the compressor and 
electromagnetic valves and connects with several 
sensors.  
Two experiments are conducted. The first 
experiment assesses the performance of the 
MCS-51-based controller. The second experiment 
assesses the performance when at least 1 sensor in the 
heat pump system is abnormal. The MCS-51-based 
controller can control the heat pump well in the first 
experiment. First, the heat pump compressor is turned 
on every 10min and turned off it 10min. This procedure 
is repeated twice. Figure 7(a) shows analytical results 
from experiment 1. The single-chip controller can 
control the heat pump and replace the PLC 
successfully. 
 Experiment 2 tests the situation during heat pump 
system malfunction. One sensor, the phase reversal 
relay, is assumed abnormal when one sensor interface is 
in malfunction. If the sensor is normal, the system will 
not jump off and the LED and light transistor are 
activated; thus, V1 equals 0V. However, the sensor is 
left open to simulate one abnormal sensor. The LED 
and light transistor are hence not operating. The 
processor then determines that V1 does not equal 0V, 
thus, which sensor is abnormal is known. The LCD will 
show the number of error device right now because this 
sensor is sensor No. 5. Thus, the repair person can find 
the heat pump problem easily when the pump is out of 
order. This function is very useful for maintenance. 
 
4. Discussion and conclusions 
 
  The proposed MCS-51-based heat pump controller 
can control a heat pump. Moreover, the size of the heat 
pump system is reduced. Basically, the heat pump 
system is huge, such that it is not suitable for use in 
apartments. However, when using the MCS-51-based 
controller instead of the PLC, the size of the heat pump 
system is reduced by about 33%. Additionally, many 
water heaters currently exist, such as electrical water 
heaters and solar water heaters. However, these heaters 
have some disadvantages. For instance, an electrical 
water heater is more expensive to operate than other 
heaters. Additionally, although solar water heaters 
conserve energy, they do not work well on cloudy days. 
Compared with traditional water heaters, heat pumps 
have the following advantages. 
Safety: By not burning gas, a heat pump will not 
explode. Additionally, heat pumps are equipped with 
safety devices.  
Saving money: Heat pumps consume little power; thus, 
using a heat pump instead of another water heater can 
save money. Heating 1000 liters of cold water at 20°C 
to 50°C consumes 30000 Kcal. 
a. Electrical heater  
30000Kcal ÷ 774 Kcal/ (kW/hr) = 39 kW/hr 
39×0.08 USD/(kW/hr)= 3.12 USD 
b. Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) 
30000Kcal ÷ 7800 Kcal/ kg = 3.8 Kg 
3.8×1.21 USD/kg =4.598 US dollars 
c. Natural gas (NG) 
30000Kcal ÷ 6230 Kcal/ (KW/hr) = 4.82 KW/hr 
4.82×0.47 USD/(KW/hr) = 2.27 USD 
d. Diesel oil boiler  
30000Kcal ÷ 6695 Kcal/L = 4.48 L 
4.48×0.85 USD / L = 3.81 USD 
e. Heat pump 
30000Kcal ÷ 3000 Kcal/ (KW/hr) = 10 KW/hr  
10×0.08 USD /(KW/hr) = 0.8 USD 
Table 1 shows a comparison of {what?}. 
 
Environmental protection: Heat pumps conserve 
power and do not generate CO2, reducing greenhouse 
effect. Additionally, heat pumps also release cool air so 
it can be an air-conditioner.  
Multi-functional: Regardless of weather conditions 
and time of day, heat pumps can provide hot water 
continuously. Heat pumps also provide free cool air and 
eliminate humidity. The major input for a heat pump is 
air. Thus, heat pump operation costs less than 
traditional heaters when generating hot water. 
Operating a heat pump costs about 25% less than 
operating an electrical heater and 33% less than using 
natural gas.  
 Over long-term testing, the MCS-51-based heat 
pump had good stability during operation. The total 
cost of this controller is only about US$35. Thus, 
compared with a conventional PLC, the proposed work 
markedly reduces the cost of a heat pump controller and 
reduces the size of heat pump systems. 
 
References 
 
[1] S. W. Lee, M. J. Jeong, B. I. Jang, C. H. Yoo, S. 
G. Kim and Y. S. Park, “Fuzzy precompensated 
PI controller for a variable capacity heat pump,” 
IEEE International Conference on Control 
Application, vol. 2, pp. 953-957, 1998. 
[2] J. E. Shaffer, “Heat pump water heater control,” 
IEEE Transactions on Industrial Applications, 
Vol. IA-21, no. 5, pp. 1254-1256, 1985. 
[3] B. J. Huang, “Solar-assisted heat pump water 
heater,” National Solar Energy Conference, 
Taipei, Taiwan, 2000.  
[4] A. Domijan, O. Hancock, C. Maytrott, “A study 
and evaluation of power electronic based 
adjustable speed motor drives for air 
conditioners and heat pumps with an example 
utility case study of the Florida Power and Light 
Company,” IEEE Transactions on Energy 
 6
 
 
Fig. 5: 8051 heat pump controller. 
 
 
MAIN 
PROGRAMINTERRUPT 2 INTERRUPT 150ms10ms
 
(a) 
 
 
(b) 
Phase reversal relay 
is normal or not?
Anti-freezing switch
 is normal or not?
Pressure switch 
is normal or not?
Temperature sensor
is normal or not?
Remote control sensor 
is normal or not?
YES
YES
YES
YES
The system shuts down by force.
LCD shows the number of
 error device.
YES
NO
NO
NO
NO
NO
 
(c) 
 
Enable the WDT.
10ms
Reset the WDT.
10ms
The  processor crashes 
and the WDT 
overflows.
The WDT generates a 
reset pulse at RST pin. 
The  processor resets.
 
(d) 
 
Fig. 6: (a) Program structure of heat pump control (b) 
Main program flow chart (c) Interrupt subroutine 1 
flow chart (d) Interrupt subroutine 2 flow chart. 
的台灣來說，這確實是一個可以學習的方向。 
10 月 4 日的 Tutorial Sessions，大會的場地是在北海道大學 Hokkaido University, 
International Conference Hall 舉行，5 日之後的行程包含 Plenary Speech, Oral Session and 
Poster Session 等 Technical Program 則在 Sapporo Convention Center 舉行，Sapporo 
Convention Center 啟用雖有一段時間，但功能性還不錯，大小會議廳的數量也還算適中，
以本次大會的規模而言，確實是一個理想的場所。 
本次參加會議聆聽多場演講，多位學者討論也相當熱絡，台灣來的學者包含台大、
交大、清大、中央、政大、東華、嘉大及中研院的學者也相當多；據了解 Asia-Pacific Signal 
and Information Processing Association 有意逐步擴大規模，使其每年的 Annual Summit and 
Conference 成為信號、資訊與影像處理相關領域亞太地區最大會議，大會主席也在演說
中表現強烈的企圖心。會議結束後，本人搭乘 10 月 7 日中午由札幌新千歲機場搭乘中華
航空班機於下午六時許返抵桃園機場。 
 
  
    圖一:大會入口歡迎海報      圖二:大會手冊 
