 1
Abstract 
 
This study proposed a layer of unsaturated polyester resin wrapping around a preliminary thin RP 
socket manufactured by a fused deposition modeling (FDM) machine to reinforce its flexural strength. 
Factors affecting the strength of the resin-reinforced RP-based socket include the thickness and forming 
orientation of the preliminary RP socket, the thickness of the UPR layer, and the type of material used to 
make the preliminary RP socket. Employing Taguchi experimental design method and ASTM three-point 
bending test standard, the parameters that influence the flexural strength of the resin-reinforced RP-based 
prosthetic socket can be determined. Based on the appropriate parameters, a preliminary thin RP prosthetic 
socket can be fabricated by an FDM machine. And the thin layer preliminary RP socket was then wrapped 
with cotton socks and laminated UPR layer to form a resin-reinforced RP-based socket. To confirm the 
effectiveness of the proposed type of resin-reinforced RP-based sockets developed in this study, two 
volunteer subjects with unilateral left below-knee amputation were recruited to implement the experiment. 
The pressures at residual limb/socket interface were measured by using a pressure distribution 
measurement system and movement was captured by a motion analysis system while volunteer patients 
wore the resin-reinforced RP-based sockets.  
The experimental results demonstrated that the applicability of the proposed type of material and 
resin-reinforced RP-based transtibial socket has been verified. Based on clinical expertise, a prosthetist 
may use the interface pressures exerting on stump and gait pattern during walking to assess the suitability 
of this type of RP socket. Further trial use and more subjects are being arranged to validate the durability 
of the proposed RP-based socket.  
 
Keywords: transtibial socket, rapid prototyping, resin reinforcement, Taguchi method, three-point bending 
test 
摘要 
本研究的主要目的是使用快速成型(Rapid Prototyping, RP)機器製作膝下義肢承筒，並包覆不飽
和聚酯樹脂(Unsaturated Polyester Resin, UPR)外層增加承筒強度，防止在穿戴承筒時沿著開口處斷
裂。模擬膝下義肢承筒使用時之受力狀態，利用田口實驗設計方法及 ASTM D790 三點式彎曲強度
測試法，製作 RP 材料與 UPR 樹脂層的試片。使用 MTS 萬能試驗機加上三點式支架取得試片之最
大彎曲力量，並依試片尺寸計算該試片之彎曲強度，作為包覆樹脂強化層之快速成型膝下義肢承筒
的設計製作參數。 
影響彎曲強度的因素包括 RP 材料、RP 厚度、UPR 層數、與 RP 成型方向，本研究依田口實驗
設計方法選擇 L9 直交表，就變異數分析結果顯示，UPR 的襪套層數與 RP 成型方向對彎曲強度影
響較大。本研究選擇目前快速成型技術佔有率最高的 FDM (Fused Deposition Modeling)製程的 ABS 
M30 當 RP 材料，厚度 1.5 mm 的 RP 雛型承筒，並使用 8 層襪套包覆 UPR 樹脂製作義肢承筒。經
患者試用及運動分析與介面壓力測試，並且與患者目前使用的傳統手工承筒比較，由介面壓力及步
態結果顯示，初步驗證以本實驗結果組合條件之包覆樹脂強化層膝下義肢承筒之可用性。 
 
關鍵字: 三點式彎曲強度試驗、膝下義肢承筒、快速成型、田口實驗方法、樹脂強化層 
INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVE 
For transtibial amputees, the supracondylar patella tendon bearing (PTB-SC) prosthesis (Fig. 1) is the 
most widely adopted type of prosthetic devices. As the socket of a prosthesis affects the comfortableness 
of wearing the prosthesis, it should be custom-made for each individual amputee. The conventional 
 3
Because the strength of RP-based socket is the most important required property, to avoid abrupt 
collapse while using this socket type, this study focuses on strengthening and verifying the proposed 
RP-based socket.  
          
(a) Without reinforcement    (b) With reinforcement 
Figure 3. Rapid prototyping sockets [5]. 
EXPERIMENTAL METHODS 
To verify the applicability of the proposed socket type, the material property of flexural strength of 
the resin-reinforced RP-based socket should be measured. For resin materials, ASTM three-point bending 
test method is introduced in this study. To ease the experiment and to reduce the trial runs The Taguchi 
experimental design method is employed. 
 
Three Point Bending Test 
Since a bending load applies at proximal brim of socket while wearing the prosthesis, the flexural 
properties of the materials of resin-reinforced RP sockets are important to prevent breakage. To confirm 
the parameters affecting the strength of resin-reinforced RP socket, a series of three-point bending strength 
tests are implemented. Based on the ASTM D790 [6], a standard method for testing the flexural properties 
of reinforced plastics, the specifications of testing specimens are designed and an MTS universal 
tensile testing system [7] is used. Figure 4 illustrates the relationship of the supports of a test specimen and 
applied load. The maximum load that causes the specimen fracture can be detected. Using Eq. (1), the 
dimensions of the specimen together with the maximum load, the bending strength of the material of the 
tested specimen can be calculated. 
 
22
3
bd
PL
f                     (1) 
where: 
σf = stress in the outer fibers at midpoint, MPa, 
P = load at a given point on the load-deflection curve, N, 
L = support span, mm, 
b = width of beam tested, mm, and 
d = thickness of beam tested, mm. 
  
Figure 4. Schematic for three-point bending test. 
 5
One of the most important ideas of the Taguchi experimental design method is the selection of 
orthogonal array. According to the concept of dummy treatment [8], the third level of RP material is 
treated as a dummy level and PC is chosen (Table 1). With four 3-level control factors, L9 (34) orthogonal 
array [8, 10] as shown in Table 2 is utilized in this study. The implementation of the experiment and 
analysis of the result will be described in the following sections. 
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EXPERIMENTS   
Preparation of testing specimens 
According to ASTM D790, a test method for flexural properties of reinforced plastics materials, the 
shape, dimensions, accuracy of test specimens should be designated. Based on the proposed process of 
resin-reinforced RP-based socket [5] to prepare three-point bending test specimens, an RP plate with 
appropriate thickness of selected material is placed onto the surface of a plaster mold. After covering the 
RP plate with the required layers of cotton socks, a PVA bag is then put on so that a duct is made for 
pouring UPR resin. The procedure mixes liquid UPR with a hardener and then fills and uniformly 
squeezes the liquid by hand around the plate to allow UPR to infiltrate into the socks’ fiber layers. A 
vacuum pump is used to continuously keep the lamination and curing process going for 3 hours. The 
procedure dismantles the RP plate coated with resin layer and it is then cut into the required dimensions of 
the test specimens. Figure 5 shows the steps of the preparation of specimens for three-point bending test. 
 
 
Figure 5  Plaster mold, RP plate inserted, lamination, RP plate coated with resin, cutting test specimens 
 
Flexural Strength of Three-point Bending Test 
 Based on the test runs listed in the selected orthogonal array (Table 2) and the levels of each control 
factors, the detailed specification of each individual test specimen can be organized as Table 3. According 
to the number of specimens recommended in ASTM 790, five specimens are tested on a MTS machine [7]. 
Figure 6 illustrates a specimen being setup till fracture deformation detected. Taking the specimen of first 
experimental run as an example (i.e. RP thickness 1.0 mm; UPR thickness: 4-layer of cotton socks; RP 
material: PC; RP forming orientation: flat), the loads applied at the point of bending fracture of five 
specimens are 82.36, 89.25, 85.5, 92.7, 87.52 Newtons. Using the fracture load, the real dimension of each 
individual specimens, and Eq. (1), the bending stress of the outer fibers at midpoint of specimens can be 
calculated. The mean stress (53.52 MPa) and its standard deviation (3.45 MPa) are then considered as the 
bending strength of the first experimental run. Similarly, the results of the remaining experimental runs are 
listed in Table 3. 
 
 
Figure 6. Deformation of the specimen during test. 
 7
 
Based on the Taguchi procedure, the optimal experimental conditions should be further validated by 
an experimental run. The test of a group of testing specimens with the optimal conditions (i.e. A2B3C2D2) 
was therefore implemented. The verifying experiment showed that an average flexural strength is 73.61 
MPa and its standard deviation is 6.72 MPa. Comparing to the flexural strengths of FDM materials 
published in Matweb website [12], the experimental result of this study. i.e. 73.61 MPa, is better than 41 
MPa of Stratasys ABS and 61 MPa of Stratasys ABS M30. Moreover, it is almost similar to a type of 
transparent ABS (73.5MPa) [13] used in SLA process. 
This selected combination (i.e. A2B3C2D2) is then used to manufacture a resin-reinforced RP socket 
by employing the procedure proposed by Hsu et al [5]. The verification of the applicability of wearing the 
resin-reinforced socket will then be made based on the interface pressures between stump/socket using a 
pressure distribution measurement system and gait pattern by a motion analysis system respectively.  
 
Figure 7. Procedure of measuring interface pressures. 
 
Verification of Resin-reinforced RP Socket 
To evaluate the effectiveness of experimental results by employing 3-point bending test and Taguchi 
method, one volunteer amputee is recruited to assist the investigation on the walking characteristics of 
using two different sockets. The subject, with unilateral left side below-knee amputation, works in a 
prosthesis firm, age 61, 1.76-meter height and weight 60-kg, and has experienced in wearing a PTB-SC 
prosthesis for more than 30 years without major gait deviation. The first socket is a manually made 
plaster-based socket and is currently used by the amputee for almost 20 years. The second is the 
resin-reinforced RP socket fabricated in an FDM machine using the optimal combinations of the 3-point 
bending test result described in the previous section.  
The distribution of interface pressures between stump and socket during stance phase was measured 
using a Pliance mobile system [14]. The procedure of the measurement for interface pressures is shown in 
Fig. 7. To clarify the kinematic and biomechanical features of an amputee walking, temporal spatial 
parameters, joint kinematics, joint kinetics, and ground reaction forces were simultaneously measured by 
employing a motion analysis system [15]. 
 
 Experiment procedure of verification. Before the experiment started, the volunteer's 
anthropometrical data including height, weight, ankle diameter, knee diameter, foot length, foot width 
were measured. These data will be used later in gait analysis. Socket sensors were pasted on the 
volunteer's patella tendon, tibia end, fibular head, calf muscle, medial tibia flare of stump (Fig. 8), and 
 9
 
Figure 10  Comparison of interface pressures exerting on stump between the resin-reinforced RP-based 
socket and an old socket. 
 
 
Figure 11  Comparison of gait patterns between the resin-reinforced RP-based socket (red) and an old 
socket. (light green). 
 
Motion Measurement and Gait Analysis 
In addition to interface pressures, based on the measured data of a gait cycle, temporal partial 
parameters including velocity, stride length, step length during stance phase and swing phase can be 
determined using OrthoTrak 6.0 [15]. Hip flex/extension, knee flex/extension, ankle dors/plantarflexion 
are three joint angles at sagittal plane. The characteristics of joint kinematics and angle variations of lower 
limb joints were utilized to express the flexion and extension of joint motions [16]. These can show 
whether the gait pattern is natural. Figure 11 shows that the angle variations of lower limb joints (hip 
flex/extension, knee flex/extension, ankle dors/plantarflexion) were no significant difference while the 
subject was wearing these two sockets (i.e. a resin-reinforced RP-based socket and old socket made by 
plaster-based process).  
CONCLUSION 
The flexural strength of the material adopted in a resin-reinforced RP transtibial socket can be 
ensured by employing three-point bending test method and Taguchi experimental design method to obtain 
a better combination of parameters that influence the material strength The experimental results showed 
that a proper set of thickness of the RP layer and UPR layer, the RP material and RP fabricating 
orientation can build a transtibial socket with acceptable flexural strength. 
 11
[14] Novel GmbH. 2010. Pliance application on prosthesis system. On the WWW, January, 
www.novel.de/productinfo/systems-pliance-prosthesis.htm. 
[15] Motion Analysis Cooperation. 2010. Movement Analysis, On the WWW, January, 
www.motionanalysis.com/html/movement/products.html.  
[16] Oatis, C. A., 2009. Kinesiology: the Mechanics and Pathomechanics of Human Movement. Lippincott 
Williams & Wilkins, Baltimore. 
 
計畫成果自評部份： 
 
包覆樹脂強化層之快速成型膝下義肢承筒研究案，係跨越工程及醫療復健領域，整合新興科技
如掃瞄技術、電腦輔助設計、有限元素分析法、快速成型技術、步態運動分析儀及承筒壓力量測設
備等工具，製作新型式的承筒；除了改善純手工製作的承筒品質不穩定的缺點之外，同時藉由田口
實驗設計方法及三點式彎曲強度測試法，選擇適當的快速成型機型、材料類別、厚度、及包覆樹脂
強化層之特性，以提升抗彎強度以防止在穿戴及使用承筒時沿著開口處斷裂。惟設計承筒形狀時根
據之殘肢模型，若是以赤裸狀態取得(譬如掃瞄機)的殘肢形狀建立 CAD 模型，則必須使用 CAD 系
統模擬義肢師手工修整殘肢陽模之受壓區及非受壓區的形狀，將面臨純手工製作承筒方法相同的困
難，即形狀不確定性及 CAD 系統功能之限制。此現象是採用 PTB 型式的承筒形狀設計之困境。下
一階段將採用 TSB 型式的承筒，以簡化承筒形狀設計的步驟，設法模擬殘肢在使用義肢時之受壓
狀態取模，同時準備必要之取模工具，是重點工作之一。徵求更多位患者的參與本研究案，發展專
用的筒設計介面系統，是往後的重點工作。本研究案成果曾經得到國家生技醫療產業策進會 2007
國家新創獎，若是能整合新興科技工具，將可讓義肢師容易製作出患者滿意的義肢承筒。 
 
參考文獻中以紅色標示的 [5]及下列研討會論文是本研究計畫階段性結果的相關報告。 
1. C.T. Lu, L.H. Hsu, G. F. Huang, C.W. Lai, H.K. Peng, and T.Y. Hong, (2008), “The Development 
and Strength Reinforcement of Rapid Prototyping Prosthetic Socket Coated with a Resin Layer for 
Transtibial Amputee,” Paper ID: conf131a972, ICBME 2008, December 2-5, Singapore.  
2. C-W, Lai, L-H, Hsu, G-F, Huang, S-H, Liu, (2008), “An Interface System to Aid The Design of 
Rapid Prototyping Prosthetic Socket Coated with A Resin Layer for Transtibial Amputee,” Paper 
ID: conf131a415, ICBME 2008, December 2-5, Singapore. 
3. H.K, Peng, L.H. Hsu, G.F. Huang and D.Y. Hong, (2008), “The Analysis and Measurement of 
Interface Pressures between Stump and Rapid Prosthetic Socket Coated with A Resin Layer for 
Transtibial Amputee,” Paper ID: conf131a435, ICBME 2008, December 2-5, Singapore. 
4. Wei-Chiao Chuang, Lai-Hsing Hsu, Gwo-Feng Huang, Chih-Wei Lai, (2009),“Computer-Aided 
Grid-Editing System For Supporting The Design of Rapid Prototyping Transtibial Sockets,” 
ASME 2009 International Mechanical Engineering Congress & Exposition (IMECE2009), 
IMECE2009-10758, November 13-19 2009, Lake Buena Vista, Florida. 
5.  Yen-Ting Chen, H.K. Peng, C.T. Lu, L.H. Hsu, G.F. Huang, H.S. Shih, (2009),“The Gait Analysis 
and Interface Pressure Measurement between Stump and Resin-reinforced Rapid Prototyping 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
報告人 
姓名 
 
許來興 
服務機構 
及職稱 
國立成功大學機械系 
副教授 
時間 
會議地點 
12/July/2010 ~ 14/July/2010 
Istanbul, Turkey 
本會核定 
補助文號 NSC 97-2221-E-006 -105 
會議名稱 
 (中文): ESDA 2010 - 第十屆 ASME 工程系統設計與分析研討會 
 (英文): ESDA 2010 - ASME 2010 10th Biennial Conference on Engineering Systems 
Design and Analysis 
發表論文
題目 
(中文): 包覆樹脂強化層之快速成型膝下義肢承筒簡介 
(英文): Introduction to a Type of Resin-Reinforced Rapid Prototyping Transtibial 
Socket 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過:  
12/July/2010 ~ 14/July/2010，共 3 天。12/July 報到後即參加各相關內容之主題(含口頭報告
及專題演講-Keynote Lectures)。14/July 上午係個人口頭報告之時段。 
二、與會心得:  
ESDA 2010 係美國機械工程協會(ASME)歐洲分會機械工程領域大型研討會之一，由於研討會
期間正值暑假，來自歐洲各地的學術界及工程界專家學者參加。含蓋領域極廣，Advanced Energy 
Systems 、 Advanced Materials and Tribology、 Applied Mechanics 、 Automotive Engineering and 
Technologies 、 Bioengineering and Biomedical Technology 、Computational Mechanics、 Design 
Engineering、 Dynamic Systems and Control、 Fluids Engineering 、Heat Transfer 、 1 Manufacturing 
Systems 、Mechanisms and Robotics 、Mechatronics 、Micro and Nanotechnology 、 Optical 
Engineering 、 Science、 Engineering & Education 、 Systems Engineering 等 17 個主題，個人是
參加 Bioengineering and Biomedical Technology。除上述 sessions 相當深入的機械科技研究外，在
專題演講(Keynote Lectures)會場中，以英美大學為主的著名學者。其中感受最深刻的是一位在 MIT
任教的高溫超導體土耳其裔物理學家 Prof A Nihrt Berker，於 MIT 任教 20 餘年後，回土耳其擔任
Sabanci University 校長，並於近年來結合各界資源，主持以中學生為主的土耳其年輕科學後進的
培育計畫，培訓了一批批年輕學生進入土耳其及歐美著名大學就讀，期待新一批的人才作為土耳
其發展科技及工業的精英份子。另一位 keynote speaker 是韓裔的創新設計學者 Dr Nam Pyo Suh，
於 MIT 任教 30 年後，回韓國擔任 KAIST 研究院院長，並主持前瞻性產業的計畫。演講主題是
Innovative Engineering System Designed and Developed at KAIST，針對 On-Line Electric Vehicle 及
Mobile Harbor 的雛型系統的發展過程，發揮由他個人發展的 Axiomatic Design 設計理論。該 2 位
全球著名學者，個別將其最成熟的心智貢獻在年輕成長時期的祖國，也直接將其領域的專精知識
作最具體的傳承。 
  由台灣前往參加的人員，以學術界為主。包含有清華、台科大、中興、雲林科大、虎尾科大、
成大、台南大學、華梵大學及大同大學等 20 餘位老師，直接讓主辦單位及參與研討會的各國人士
認識台灣。 
 1 Copyright © 2010 by ASME 
Proceedings of the ASME 2010 10th Biennial Conference on Engineering Systems Design and Analysis 
ESDA2010 
July 12-14, 2010, Istanbul, Turkey 
            ESDA2010-24155 
INTRODUCTION TO A TYPE OF RESIN-REINFORCED RAPID PROTOTYPING 
TRANSTIBIAL SOCKET 
L.H. Hsu1, C.T. Lu1, G.F. Huang2, J.T.Chen3, W.C. Chuang1, H.S. Shih2 
1Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan 
2Department of Physical Therapy, Fooyin University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan 
3College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan 
 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
This article introduced a type of rapid prototyping (RP) 
transtibial socket that is fabricated by a fused deposition 
modeling (FDM) machine and wrapped with a layer of 
unsaturated polyester resin (UPR) to enhance its flexural 
strength. As current rapid prototyping machines use a 
layer-based process to manufacture products, this will result in 
RP products liable to break along forming layers once bending 
moment is applied. To prevent RP prosthetic socket from 
breakage, this study proposed wrapping a layer of unsaturated 
polyester resin around a preliminary thin RP socket to 
reinforce its flexural strength. Factors affecting the strength of 
the resin-reinforced RP socket include thickness and forming 
orientation of the preliminary RP socket, thickness of the UPR 
layer, and type of material used to make the preliminary RP 
socket. Employing Taguchi experimental design method and 
ASTM three-point bending test standard, the parameters that 
influence the flexural strength of the resin-reinforced RP 
prosthetic socket can be determined. Based on the appropriate 
parameters, including thickness of the RP layer and UPR layer, 
the RP material and RP fabricating orientation, the preliminary 
thin RP prosthetic sockets can be fabricated by an FDM 
machine. And the thin layer preliminary RP sockets were then 
wrapped with cotton socks and laminated UPR layer to form 
resin-reinforced RP sockets. To confirm the effectiveness of 
the resin-reinforced sockets developed in this study, the 
pressures at residual limb/socket interface were measured by 
using  a pressure distribution  measurement system  and   
 
Correspondence: L.H. Hsu, Department of Mechanical Engineering, 
National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, 70101, Taiwan.  
E-mail: lhhsu@mail.ncku.edu.tw 
 
movement was captured by a motion analysis system while a 
patient wears the resin-reinforced RP socket. Two 
resin-reinforced RP sockets have been fabricated and tested by 
a volunteer amputee. Analysis of the experimental results 
would assist a prosthetist to assess the distribution of interface 
pressures at the pressure-tolerant (PT) and pressure-relief (PR) 
areas of the residual limb. And, the gait pattern will be used to 
evaluate the applicability while the resin-reinforced RP socket 
is worn. Trial uses for durability test of the proposed RP 
socket are being arranged. 
 
Keywords —transtibial socket, rapid prototyping, resin 
reinforcement, Taguchi method, three-point bending test 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
For transtibial amputees, the supracondylar patella 
tendon bearing (PTB-SC) prosthesis (Fig. 1) is the most 
widely adopted type of prosthetic devices. The socket should 
be custom-made for each individual amputee and affects the 
comfortableness of wearing the prosthesis. The conventional 
manual procedure of plaster-based method for manufacturing 
a prosthetic socket is complicated and artificial, making it 
time-consuming and labor-intensive. By employing 
computer-aided engineering method, the socket of transtibial 
prosthesis could be manufactured, and it still can be adjusted 
and modified easily before fabrication. Figure 2 depicts a 
comparison between the traditional approach and the 
computer-aided engineering approach. 
Since the emergence of rapid prototyping technology, a 
variety of RP sockets  have been designed  and fabricated in  
 3 Copyright © 2010 by ASME 
 
Figure 4. A SCHEMATIC FOR THREE-POINT BENDING TEST. 
 
To determine a better set of design parameters used to 
fabricate resin-reinforced RP socket, the Taguchi method is 
employed to design the experiments and to compare the 
contribution percentage of those influence factors. 
 
 
Taguchi Method 
The Taguchi Method [8-9] is an experimental design 
method for solving the problem that involves a set of complex 
factors including empirical data, specific expertise and 
engineering knowledge. The variances of the factors exist in 
the manufacturing procedure of a product, and these variances 
may come from materials, process parameters, personnel, 
environment, etc. Wrapping a layer of unsaturated polyester 
resin on the preliminary RP socket is to prevent breakage 
caused by the layer-based forming process and to reinforce 
flexural strength [5]. Based on the basic concept of Taguchi 
method, the flexural strength of the material of a 
resin-reinforced RP socket is designated as the experimental 
result, the parameters that affect the flexural strength as the 
control factors, which include thickness of RP layer, type of 
RP material, RP forming orientation, and thickness of UPR 
layer. These control factors and their corresponding levels 
involved the empirical viewpoints of the previous 
investigation [5].  
Since FDM process is the most popular type of RP 
machines [10], it is therefore selected as the main equipment 
in this study. Two kinds of materials [11], i.e. polycarbonate 
(PC) and Acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS), are selected 
to evaluate their suitability in this study. A previous study [5] 
found that the thickness around 1.5 mm of FDM process is the 
proper thickness to keep complete shape of a transtibial socket. 
Considering the manufacturing cost and required quality, the 
three levels of RP thickness (1.0, 1.5 and 2.0 mm) are 
designated. According to the expertise (relating to the 
considerations of socket weight and required strength) of 
fabricating plaster-based socket of manual skills process by 
infiltrating unsaturated polyester resin (UPR) on cotton socks,  
Table 1. CONTROL FACTORS AND LEVELS FOR RESIN- 
REINFORCED RP SOCKET. 
Control 
factor Illustration Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 
A RP Thickness (mm) 1.0 1.5 2.0 
B UPR Thickness(layers of socket) 4-layer 6-layer 8-layer 
C RP Material PC ABS PC 
D RP forming Orientation Vertical Horizontal Flat 
 
Table 2. L9 ORTHOGONAL ARRAY SELECTED IN THIS STUDY. 
 
 
four-layer, six-layer and eight-layer of cotton socks are chosen 
for the factor of UPR thickness. The possible forming 
orientations of a socket and the corresponding setup of 
three-point bending testing, the levels of RP forming 
orientation are therefore including vertical, horizontal and flat. 
All these design parameters and the corresponding levels are 
listed in Table 1. 
One of the most important ideas of the Taguchi 
experimental design method is the selection of orthogonal 
array. According to the concept of dummy treatment [8-9], the 
third level of RP material is treated as a dummy level and PC 
is chosen. With four 3-level control factors, L9 (34) orthogonal 
array [8-9] as shown in Table 2 is utilized in this research. 
The implementation of the experiment and analysis of 
the result will be described in the following sections. 
 
 
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EXPERIMENTS   
Flexural Strength of Three-point Bending Test 
 Based on the test runs listed in the selected orthogonal 
array (Table 2) and the levels of each control factors, the 
detailed specification of each individual test specimen can be 
organized as Table 1. According to the number of specimens 
recommended in ASTM 790, five specimens are tested on a  
 5 Copyright © 2010 by ASME 
 
Figure 6. PROCEDURE OF MEASURING INTERFACE PRESSURES. 
 
 
Verification of Resin-reinforced RP Socket 
To evaluate the effectiveness of experimental results by 
employing 3-point bending test and Taguchi method, one 
volunteer amputee is recruited to assist the investigation on the 
walking characteristics of using three different sockets. The 
amputee, with unilateral left side below-knee amputation, 
works in a prosthesis firm, age 61, 1.76-meter height and 
weight 60-kg, and has experienced in wearing a PTB-SC 
prosthesis for more than 30 years without major gait deviation. 
The first socket, called socket A, is a manually made 
plaster-based socket and is currently used by the volunteer for 
almost 20 years. Socket B is the resin-reinforced RP socket 
using the optimal combinations of the 3-point bending test 
result described in the previous section. Socket C is the 
resin-reinforced RP socket that was 2-mm-thick polycarbonate 
(PC) made in vertical orientation on an FDM machine as 
reported in a previous study [5]. 
To verify applicability of the proposed resin-reinforced 
RP socket, the Institutional Research Board in the authors’ 
affiliation approved an experiment testing socket use. After 
completing a trial safety walk wearing the prosthesis, which 
was satisfactory to the amputee and a registered prosthetist, 
the experiment then used the prosthesis to measure interface 
pressures between socket and stump. An interface pressure 
measuring system, i.e. Pliance mobile system [14], is used to 
demonstrate the walking characteristics of the volunteer 
subject. The distribution of interface pressures between stump 
and socket during stance phase was measured using a Pliance 
system. To clarify the kinematic and biomechanical features of 
an amputee walking, temporal spatial parameters, joint 
kinematics, joint kinetics, and ground reaction forces were 
simultaneously measured by employing a motion analysis 
system [15].The procedure of the measurement for interface 
pressures is shown in Fig. 6. 
 
(a) Pressure tolerant (PT) areas. 
 
(a) Pressure relief (PR) areas. 
Figure 7. THE PT/PR AREAS OF A STUMP. 
 
 
Figure 8. SOCKET SENSORS TAPED ON STUMP AND 
MARKERS ON AMPUTEE BODY. 
 
 
 Experiment procedure. Before the experiment 
started, the volunteer's anthropometrical data including height, 
weight, ankle diameter, knee diameter, foot length, foot width 
were measured. These data will be used later in gait analysis. 
Socket sensors were pasted on the volunteer's patella tendon, 
tibia end, fibular head, calf muscle, medial tibia flare of stump 
(Fig. 7), and cotton socks were worn so that the sensors were 
covered. Twenty-six markers were pasted on the volunteer's 
body’s joints by Helen Hayes marker setup [15] (Fig. 8). After 
the equipment has been setup and the amputee safety of trial 
walk has been confirmed, the gait data and interface pressures 
were collected while the volunteer was walking on a 10-meter 
walkway.  
 
 
RESULTS 
Motion Measurement and Gait Analysis 
The resulting data include the residual limb and sound 
limb with the volunteer subject wearing different sockets, i.e.  
 7 Copyright © 2010 by ASME 
acceptable pressures exerting on stump and the gait patter 
demonstrated that the resin-reinforced RP socket has 
comfortable quality of fitting to the volunteer amputee. The 
remaining question is whether this type of resin-reinforced RP 
socket can really endure as long period of use as the 
plaster-based sockets made by manual method. To obtain more 
definitive results, long-term use of the resin-reinforced RP 
socket for clinical acceptability and durability evaluation is 
underway. And, more experiments on different subjects are 
needed in the future. 
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
The authors would like to thank the National Science 
Council Taiwan for its support through grant No. 
NSC98-2221-E-006-041.  
 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] Gibson, I., editor. 2005. Advanced manufacturing 
technology for medical applications: reverse engineering, 
software conversion and rapid prototyping. John Wiley 
& Sons. 
[2] Rogers, B., Bosker, G. W., Crawford, R. H., Faustini, M. 
C., Neptune, R.R., Walden, G., and Gitter, A. J., 2007. 
“Advanced trans-tibial socket fabrication using selective 
laser sintering”. Prosthetics and Orthotics International, 
31(1), pp 88-100.  
[3] Fuh, J.Y.H., Feng, W., and Wong, Y.S., 2005. “Modelling, 
analysis and fabrication of below-knee prosthetic sockets 
using rapid prototyping”. In: Gibson I, editor, Advanced 
manufacturing technology for medical applications: 
reverse engineering, software conversion and rapid 
prototyping. John Wiley & Sons. pp. 207-226. 
[4] Herbert, N., Simpson, D., Spence, W., and Ion, W., 2005. 
“A preliminary investigation into the development of 3-D 
printing of prosthetic sockets”. Journal of Rehabilitation 
Research and Development, 42(2), pp. 141-146. 
[5] Hsu, L. H., Huang, G. F., Lu, C. T., Hong, D. Y., and Liu, 
S. H., 2009. “The development of a rapid prototyping 
prosthetic socket coated with a resin layer for transtibial 
amputees”. Prosthetics and Orthotics International, early 
online, http://informahealthcare.com/toc/poi/0/0.  
[6] ASTM D790, 2007. Standard Test Methods for Flexural 
Properties of Unreinforced and Reinforced Plastics and 
Electrical Insulating Materials. American Society of 
Material Testing.  
[7] MTS Systems Corporation, MTS 810 Material Testing 
System. On the WWW, January, 2010. 
http://www.mts.com.  
[8] Peace, G. S., 1993, Taguchi Methods: a Hands-on 
Approach. Addison-Wesley, pp. 373-378. 
[9] Roy, R. K., 1990, A Primer on the Taguchi Method. Van 
Nostrand Reinhold, New York, pp. 82-85.  
[10] CAD user, 2008. “Designers can produce real parts from 
FDM Direct Digital Manufacturing Systems from 
Stratasys with total accuracy and repeatability”. CAD 
User Mechanical Magazine, Vol. 20, No. 12, January, 
http://www.caduser.com/reviews/reviews.asp?a_id=398. 
[11] Castle Island Co. 2010. The Most Important Commercial 
Rapid Prototyping Technologies at a Glance, January, 
http://home.att.net/~castleisland/rp_int1.htm.  
[12] MatWeb, 2010. Material Property Data. Stratasys ABS. 
On the WWW, January, 
http://www.matweb.com/search/DataSheet.aspx?MatGUI
D=a6ab0369e78348cfbf5da02b969b82b6. 
[13] DSM Somos, 2010. WaterClear Mechanical Properties. 
On the WWW, January, 
http://www.dsm.com/en_US/downloads/dsms/waterclear
_mech_properties_si-units.pdf. 
[14] Novel GmbH, 2010. Pliance application on prosthesis 
system. On the WWW, January, 
http://www.novel.de/productinfo/systems-pliance-prosthe
sis.htm. 
[15] Motion Analysis Cooperation, 2010. Movement Analysis, 
http://www.motionanalysis.com/html/movement/products
.html.  
[16] Kirtley, C., 2006. Clinical Gait Analysis: Theory and 
Practice, Elsevier Churchill Livingstone. 
[17] Oatis, C. A., 2009. Kinesiology: the Mechanics and 
Pathomechanics of Human Movement. Lippincott 
Williams & Wilkins, Baltimore. 
 
 
 
97年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：許來興 計畫編號：97-2221-E-006-105- 
計畫名稱：包覆樹脂外層之快速成型膝下義肢承筒之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 6 6 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
