 
 
2
目          錄 
 
一、中文摘要…………………………………………….  3 
二、英文摘要…………………………………………….  4 
三、研究成果報告……………………………………….  5 
四、出國報告…………………………………………….48 
1)第七屆亞太生物資訊會議  The 7th Asia Pacific Bioinformatics Conference   
 
2)分子生物智慧系統及歐洲計算生物學聯合會議 
International conference on Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology and 
European Conference on Computational Biology  
 
 
 
 
4
二、英文摘要 
Abstract 
Shotgun proteomics based on two-dimensional liquid chromatography-tandem mass 
spectrometry analysis opens a new dimension for large-scale and robust proteomics research. In recent 
years, shotgun proteomics studies often advance to incorporating stable isotope labeling techniques to 
discover differentially expressed proteins in different applications. 
However, the isotope labeling techniques suffer several drawbacks, and in recent years, label-free 
approach has been widely used for protein quantitation for its advantages of low cost and capability of 
comparing a large number of samples. Yet, data analysis for label-free quantitation is more 
time-consuming and complicated than that using labeling techniques. The instability of liquid 
chromatography further complicates the data analysis. Initially, researchers used the straightforward 
spectral counting approach for label-free quantitation that uses the number of MS/MS spectra 
identifying a peptide as the peptides’s abundance. However, the area of an extracted ion chromatogram 
(XIC) provides a robust measure for peptide abundance. Therefore, there is a pressing need for 
bioinformatics tools for label-free quantitation analysis based on XIC areas.  
Most of existing tools have their limitations. Therefore, in this two-year project we dedicated to 
develop an automated tool for label-free quantitation, called IDEAL-Q. Notably, we proposed an 
efficient algorithm to predict the elution time of a peptide unidentified in a specific LC-MS/MS run, 
but identified in other runs in order to detect peak clusters of the assigned peptide. Detected peptide 
peaks are further validated to filter out noisy data. As a result, more peptides than using traditional 
approaches can be quantified with good accuracy. Moreover, IDEAL-Q is generic, i.e., it accepts raw 
data from various instruments in the standard mzXML format as well as search results from major 
search engines, including Mascot, SEQUEST, and X!Tandem, as input data.  
IDEAL-Q has been tested in various experiments, including a standard protein-mixture 
experiment and large-scale experiments and achieved good accuracies. It is available at 
http://ms.iis.sinica.edu.tw/IDEAL-Q/. The results have been published in Molecular & Cellular 
Proteomics, vol. 9, pp131-144, 2010. 
 
Keywords:  
Protein quantitation, labeling-free quantitation, software system, elution prediction, peptide alignment. 
 
 
6
Abbreviations:  
AMT: accurate mass and time tag 
CV: coefficient of variations 
FTICR-MS: Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry 
ICAT: isotope-coded affinity tag 
iTRAQ: isobaric tagging for relative and absolute quantitation 
IDEAL: ID-based Elution time prediction by ٛ ragmental regression 
HBEC3 (HBEC3-KT) : Immortalized human bronchial epithelial cells line 
SCI: Signal-to-noise ratio, Charge state, and Isotope pattern (it represents a three-dimensional peptide 
validation procedure) 
SILAC: stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell cultures 
S/N: signal-to-noise ratio 
XIC: extracted ion chromatogram 
 
 
 
8
 
Introduction 
Quantitative analysis of protein expression promises to provide fundamental understanding of the 
biological changes or biomarker discoveries in clinical applications. In recent years, various stable 
isotope labeling techniques, e.g., isotope-coded affinity tags (ICAT) (1), enzymatic labeling using  
18O/16O (2, 3), stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) (4), and isobaric tagging 
for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) (5‐6), coupled with LC-MS/MS have been widely used 
for large-scale quantitative proteomics. However, several factors, such as the limited number of 
samples, the complexity of procedures in isotopic labeling experiments, and the high cost of reagents, 
limit the applicability of isotopic labeling techniques to high-throughput analysis. Unlike the labeling 
approaches, the label-free quantitation approach quantifies protein expression across multiple 
LC-MS/MS analyses directly without using any labeling technique (7‐9). Thus, it is particularly useful 
for analyzing clinical specimens in highly multiplexed quantitation (10, 11); theoretically, it can be 
used to compare any number of samples. Despite these significant advantages, data analysis in 
label-free experiments is an intractable problem due to the experiment procedures. First, although high 
reproducibility in liquid chromatography (LC) is considered a critical prerequisite, variations, 
including the aging of separation columns, changes in sample buffers, and fluctuations in temperature, 
will cause a chromatographic shift in retention time for analytes in different LC-MS/MS runs and thus 
complicate the analysis. In addition, under the label-free approach, many technical replicate analyses 
across a large number of samples are often acquired; however, comparing a large number of data files 
further complicates data analysis and renders lower quantitation accuracy than that derived by labeling 
methods. Hence, an accurate, automated computation tool is required to effectively solve the problem 
of chromatographic shift, analyze a large amount of experimental data, and provide convenient user 
interfaces for manual validation of quantitation results.    
The rapid emergence of new label-free techniques for biomarker discovery has inspired the 
 
 
10
programming or image pattern recognition have been proposed (24‐26). The algorithms applied in 
these methods require intensive computation, and their computation time increases dramatically as the 
number of compared samples increases because all the LC-MS/MS runs must be processed. Therefore, 
pattern-based approaches are infeasible for processing a large number of samples. Furthermore, 
pattern recognition algorithms may fail on data containing noise or overlapping peptide singles (i.e., 
co-eluting peptides). 
The hybrid-based quantitation approach (16, 27‐30) combines a pattern recognition algorithm 
with peptide identification results to align shifted peptides for quantitation. The pioneering accurate 
mass and time tag (AMT) strategy (27) takes advantage of very sensitive, highly accurate mass 
measurement instruments with a wide dynamic range, e.g., FTICR-MS and TOF-MS, for quantitation 
analysis. PEPPeR (16) and SuperHirn (28) apply pattern recognition algorithms to align peaks and use 
the peptide identification results as landmarks to improve the alignment. However, since these 
methods still align all peaks in MS data, they suffer the same computation time problem as 
pattern-based methods. 
To resolve the computation-intensive problem in the hybrid approach, we present a fully 
automated software system, called IDEAL-Q, for label-free quantitation including differential protein 
expression and protein modification analysis. Instead of using computation-intensive pattern 
recognition methods, IDEAL-Q employs a computation-efficient fragmental regression method for 
identity-based alignment of all confidently identified peptides in a local elution time domain. It then 
performs peptide cross-assignment by mapping predicted elution time profiles across multiple LC-MS 
experiments. To improve the quantitation accuracy, IDEAL-Q applies three validation criteria to the 
detected peptide peak clusters to filter out noisy signals, false peptide peak clusters, and co-eluting 
peaks. Because of the above key features, i.e., fragmental regression and stringent validation, 
IDEAL-Q can substantially increase the number of quantifiable proteins as well as the quantitation 
accuracy compared to other XIC-based tools. Notably, to accommodate different designs, IDEAL-Q 
supports various built-in normalization procedures, including normalization based on multiple internal 
 
 
12
purchased from Waters Corp (Milford, MA); 0.4 fmol/μl E. coli were also purchased from Waters 
Corp. 
 
Cell culture  
THP-1 (Human acute monocytic leukemia, The American Type Culture Collection) cell lines 
were grown in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum and 1% penicillin G at 37°C in 
a 5% CO2 atmosphere. Cell lines were harvested, washed three times with PBS and lysed in lysis 
buffer (0.25M Tris-HCl, pH 6.8, 1% SDS).  
 
Preparative SDS-PAGE Separation  
The protein concentrations in cell lysate were determined by BCA assay (Pierce, Rockford, IL) 
before tryptic digestion. For large-scale identification of THP-1 cell line, 70 μg cell lysate was 
separated by 10% SDS-PAGE (31) (0.5 cm × 4.0 cm × 0.75 mm). The remaining gel was then excised 
into 5 gel slices based on molecular weight. Each slice was cut into pieces, washed with MilliQ water 
and destained twice with 25 mM TEABC (pH 8) in 50% (v/v) © for 15 minutes, after which the slices 
were dehydrated with 100% © and dried for 10 minutes under vacuum. Next, the dry gel pieces were 
rehydrated in 25 mM TEABC (pH 8) containing an additional β-casein as the internal standard prior to 
in-gel digestion (In this study, we used β-casein as an internal standard to normalize XIC area readings 
of endogenous peptides). Following the addition of trypsin (10ng/μL), the gel pieces were incubated at 
37 °C overnight.  The tryptic peptides were then extracted twice with 5% (v/v) FA in 50% (v/v) © for 
30 minutes, dried completely under vacuum, and stored at -30°C. 
 
2. LC-MS/MS and protein identification  
Samples were reconstituted in 4 µl buffer A (0.1% FA in H2O) and analyzed by LC-MS/MS 
(Waters Q-TOFTM Premier from Waters Corp, Milford, MA). Samples were injected into a 2 cm × 180 
 
 
14
unrestricted. As shown in Figure 1,  the workflow involves four steps: 1) data preparation and 
construction of the ID database; 2) processing of each LC-MS/MS run data: 3) peptide-level 
processing; and 4) protein-level processing. 
Data preparation and construction of the ID database 
IDEAL-Q accepts spectral data in the mzXML format and peptide and protein identification 
results from different pipelines, namely, Mascot, SEQUEST and X!Tandem, followed by 
PeptideProphet and ProteinProphet. It also provides two filtering criteria as user options: 1) a 
confidence score threshold to filter out low-confidence identification results; and 2) an elution time 
range to determine the range of peptides that should be included. 
Confidently identified peptides in the search results are then used to construct an ID database of 
the identification results from all LC-MS/MS runs. The identified peptide ions are deemed to be the 
same entry in the database if their following attributes are the same: 1) sequence, 2) precursor m/z 
value (tolerance range: ±0.2 Da), 3) charge state, 4) modification, and 5) modification site. Note that, 
in this paper, we treat a peptide with different charge states as different peptides. The protein list and 
associated peptide lists are constructed in the database. If a peptide is only identified in some of the 
LC-MS/MS runs, information about the peptide will be assigned to the LC-MS/MS runs in which the 
peptide is not identified. The failure to identify a peptide in some runs is probably due to a low 
identification score or because the precursor m/z was not selected for MS/MS sequencing. In such runs, 
the peptide is denoted as an unidentified peptide. Therefore, each LC-MS/MS run contains identified 
and unidentified peptides. Note that, the peptides cannot be quantified by IDEAL-Q if it were not 
identified by MS/MS in any of MS runs. 
Processing of each LC-MS/MS run data 
In each LC-MS/MS run, IDEAL-Q sequentially processes all peptides, both identified and 
unidentified, to quantify as many peptides as possible. For an identified peptide, IDEAL-Q uses the 
 
 
16
1) 
where xayb −= , and ∑
∑
−
−−= 2)(
))((
xx
yyxx
a
i
ii . 
The constructed regression model, which represents the correlation of the peptide elution time in both 
LC-MS/MS runs, is used to estimate the elution time of an unidentified peptide in one run given the 
elution time of the peptide identified in the other run. 
However, in some cases, the elution time predicted by the regression model may deviate from the 
actual elution time beyond a certain tolerance range. Therefore, to rectify the prediction error of f(x), 
we introduce a fragmental refining function F(x), given that x represents the elution time of the peptide 
identified in one run. F(x) is determined by the deviations between yi (the actual elution time) and f(xi) 
(the predicted elution time), with all xi in the range of [x-2, x+2], as defined below: 
k
xfy
xF
k
xxx
ii
i
∑
+<<−
−
= 22
)(
)( ,                                                                                                           (Eq. 2) 
where k is the number of (xi , yi)-pairs in the range. Given a peptide’s identified elution time x in a 
reference LC-MS/MS run, the IDEAL algorithm takes f(x) + F(x) as the predicted elution time of the 
unidentified peptide in a specific run.  
Since an unidentified peptide generally has multiple reference LC-MS/MS runs in label-free 
experiments, i.e., it is unidentified in the current run, but identified in several other runs, IDEAL-Q 
uses the weighted average of all predictions derived by different reference runs to determine the final 
prediction of the elution time as follows: 
S
iRxFxfy
N
i
ii
)(])()([
1
×+= ∑
=
,                                                                                                (Eq. 3) 
where ∑
=
=
N
i
iRS
1
)( . We use the R2 value of the prediction model as the weight factor R(i), i.e., the more 
 
 
18
selected peak cluster by summing the MS signals within the m/z width and elution time range of the 
precursor peak. (Both the the m/z width and elution time range are determined by peak detection.) 
Then, we use the B-spline algorithm (33) for curve smoothing. The area under the XIC curve is used to 
determine the peptide abundance in the LC-MS/MS run, called the peptide run abundance. Note that 
when a peptide fails SCI validation, it is regarded as absent from the LC-MS/MS run. In this case, the 
peptide run abundance is reported as zero, so it will not be involved in the subsequent normalization 
and peptide ratio calculation procedures. 
After determining all peptide run abundances in the LC-MS/MS run, we normalize them to 
eliminate systematic errors. IDEAL-Q supports four normalization strategies in an LC-MS/MS run: 1) 
the XIC areas of spiked internal standard proteins are used to support both single and multiple spiked 
internal standards; 2) the median of all peptide run abundances in the LC-MS/MS run; 3) the mean of 
all peptide run abundances in the LC-MS/MS run; and 4) a user-defined normalization factor.  
iv. Determination of peptide ratios and protein ratios at the sample level  
In addition to peptide run abundance, based on different experiment designs, IDEAL-Q defines 
the following levels of peptide abundance: peptide abundance in the fraction level (called peptide 
fraction abundance) and peptide abundance in the sample level (called peptide sample abundance). A 
number of fractionation strategies, such as SCX and SDS-PAGE, have been proposed to reduce the 
complexity of a sample mixture before LC-MS/MS analysis. If a pre-fractionation strategy is not 
adopted, the peptide sample abundance is retrieved directly from the peptide fraction abundance. For 
experiments with multiple fractions and each fraction conducting multiple LC-MS/MS runs, peptide 
fraction abundance is defined as the average of the peptide run abundances of the LC-MS/MS runs in 
the fraction. Then, the peptide abundances in all the fractions are summed to represent the peptide 
sample abundance. After determining peptide sample abundances, the peptide ratio of any two samples 
can be calculated. 
 
 
20
label-free quantitation experiments frequently suffer from low resolution and variations in 
fractionation reproducibility because a peptide or a protein usually appears in two or more consecutive 
fractions. Therefore, peptide abundance in only one fraction does not necessarily represent the actual 
peptide expression, and could lead to inaccurate peptide ratios. To improve the quantitation accuracy, 
IDEAL-Q is designed to be compatible with label-free quantitation experiments using different 
fractionation strategies. The quantitation accuracy is demonstrated by a biological replicate of the 
THP-1 cell lysate with an dditional SDS-PAGE fractionation followed by the shotgun approach. 
2. The Workflow of IDEAL-Q 
As shown in Figure 1, quantitation under IDEAL-Q involves four steps. 1) Data preparation: 
IDEAL-Q is designed to accept search results from major search engines and data in the common 
mzXML format, which can be converted easily from spectral data files generated by different 
mass spectrometers. After loading the database search results and mzXML files, an ID database 
containing the identified peptides and proteins in all LC-MS/MS runs is constructed. 2) Peptide 
cross-assignment and SCI validation: For each LC-MS/MS run, we process all peptides in the ID 
database and classify them as identified or unidentified. To quantify an identified peptide, i.e., a 
confidently matched peptide generated by the database search engine, in an LC-MS/MS run, the 
elution time and precursor m/z of the identified MS/MS spectrum are acquired to extract the 
peptide’s spectral data, which will be processed by SCI validation. Meanwhile, to quantify an 
unidentified peptide, we first detect the peptide peaks by using the IDEAL algorithm to predict 
the peptide’s elution time for peptide alignment. Then, we use the predicted elution time and 
precursor m/z to extract local LC-MS/MS data for detecting the peptide peak cluster; this 
procedure is called peptide cross-assignment. The detected peptide peak cluster, i.e., the assigned 
peptide, is processed by SCI validation (described in Experimental Procedures). If an identified 
peptide or an assigned peptide passes SCI validation, its peak cluster is used to construct the XIC 
to determine peptide abundance; otherwise, it is regarded as unquantifiable. 3) Peptide ratio 
 
 
22
Achieving high quantitation coverage in terms of the percentages of quantified peptides/proteins 
in all identified peptides/proteins is a challenge in label-free quantitative proteomics. Normally, a 
peptide is quantified only if it can be identified in all LC-MS/MS runs. Here, we demonstrate 
IDEAL-Q’s ability to increase the quantitation coverage by cross-assignment of confidently identified 
peptides in all LC-MS/MS runs. To evaluate IDEAL-Q’s performance on a complex sample, we 
conducted an experiment on two biological duplicates of the THP-1 cell lysate and performed 
triplicate LC-MS/MS analysis. A total of 1,990 peptides corresponding to 703 proteins were identified 
(score>39, false-discovery rate: 0.05%~2.3%). The elution times of any two LC-MS/MS runs from the 
two samples exhibit a high correlation; for example, in Figure 3, there is a high correlation between 
the first runs of the two samples. 
In the dataset, 1990 peptides were confidently identified in at least one of the six LC-MS/MS runs 
in the two biological replicates. Among these peptides, 1,596, 1,289, and 1,107 peptides were 
identified in at least one, two, and three LC-MS/MS runs for both biological replicates, respectively. 
The above four peptide sets represent increasingly reliable peptide sets. We use N(m, n) to denote the 
set of peptides identified in at least m LC-MS/MS runs of one biological replicate and at least n 
LC-MS/MS runs of the other replicate. Denoting |N(m, n)| as the number of peptides in N(m, n), we 
have |N(0,1)  ∪ N(1,0)| =1,990, |N(1,1)|=1,596, |N(2,2)|=1,289, and |N(3,3)|=1,107. Many 
identity-based quantitation methods only quantify peptides that are identified in all LC-MS/MS runs; 
for example, they quantify peptides in the peptide set N(3,3), which only accounts for 55% of all 
identified peptides. In contrast, IDEAL-Q tries to quantify all identified peptides, i.e., peptides 
identified in at least one LC-MS/MS run, by peptide cross-assignment using the predicted elution time. 
Although we focused on comparing the quantitation strategies of the conventional identity-based 
approach and IDEAL-Q, we also used IDEAL-Q to quantify the above four peptide sets to evaluate its 
performance in terms of the quantitation coverage and quantitation accuracy. In this subsection, we 
examine how the quantitation coverage is affected by quantifying different peptide sets represented by 
the above N(m,n) and assess the accuracy based on the coefficient of variations (CV) of protein ratios. 
 
 
24
biological replicates, 8,806 peptide ions (1990 peptides) were identified by Mascot search. For those 
peptide ions, we only needed to check condition (2) for manual validation, and as high as 95% of them 
were correctly quantified by IDEAL-Q, as shown in Figure 5B. Of the remaining 3,134 unidentified 
peptide ions, which were assigned by IDEAL-Q, 90% were properly aligned and correctly quantified, 
2% were misaligned, and 8% were correctly aligned, but SCI validated them incorrectly, as shown in 
Figure 5B. After manual validation, the overall accuracy for all the peptide ions was 93.3%, 
demonstrating the effectiveness of IDEAL-Q’s data processing capability. In addition, the large-scale 
manual validation results revealed that 1,240 peptide ions had poor spectral quality, which was mainly 
due to peptide co-elution. However, SCI validation successfully detected and filtered out 1,114 (89.8%) 
of them. The results demonstrate that the high accuracy achieved by IDEAL-Q can be attributed to 
correct peptide alignment and the SCI validation process used to filter out noisy unquantifiable data. 
Thus, fully automated quantitation can be performed without time-consuming manual inspection. 
 
Using IDEAL’s elution time prediction and SCI validation to rectify chromatographic shift 
In addition to the demonstrated quantitation coverage and accuracy, IDEAL-Q provides a unique 
fragmental elution time prediction method (See Experimental Procedures for details) that enables 
robust quantitation of datasets with inconsistent elution profiles. Thus, we conducted a biological 
replicate experiment on the THP-1 cell line with triplicate LC-MS/MS analysis on two different LC 
systems to derive huge chromatographic shifts properly. Figure 6 compares IDEAL’s elution time 
prediction results with those of two other prediction methods, namely, the ID-time method and the 
Linear Regression method. Under the ID-time method, an unidentified peptide’s elution time was 
determined by the experimental elution time of the same peptide identified in the other LC-MS/MS run. 
In the Linear Regression method, the elution time was predicted by (Eq. 1).  
We used 699 commonly identified peptides from the first LC-MS/MS run of each LC system to 
 
 
26
To further compare the quantitation accuracy achieved by different elution time prediction 
methods, the dataset was quantified based on the elution time predicted by the ID-time, Linear 
Regression, and IDEAL methods. Furthermore, SCI validation criteria were applied incrementally to 
filter out noisy data. The quantitation performance results for peptide/protein quantitation coverage 
and quantitation accuracy are reported in Table 3. The quantitation accuracy is measured by the mean 
and standard deviation of the peptide and protein ratios, respectively. The accuracy of elution time 
prediction obviously affects the quantitation accuracy and quantitation coverage, as evidenced by the 
results in Table 3. The worst performance was the elution time predicted by the ID-time method, 
which yielded the lowest quantitation accuracy as well as the lowest quantitation coverage (after SCI 
validation). However, the mean of the protein ratio based on the ID-time method improved 
substantially from 14.59 (without SCI validation) to 1.18 (with SCI validation). A similar 
improvement was also evident on the data based on the Linear Regression method. In summary, the 
results show that SCI validation can effectively filter out noisy data, especially in very noisy datasets, 
leading to improved quantitation accuracy.  
After SCI validation, the Linear Regression method and the IDEAL method generated 
comparable results in terms of the mean and standard deviation of protein ratios. However, using 
IDEAL’s elution time prediction achieved much better protein quantitation coverage than the Linear 
Regression method (76.8% compared to 61.5%). 
4. Demonstration of quantitation performance on a large-scale experiment with fractionation  
To evaluate IDEAL-Q’s performance on large-scale quantitation with a fractionation step, we 
applied it again to a biological duplicate experiment of the THP-1 cell lysate. Additionally, the cell 
lysate was separated by an SDS-PAGE fractionation step. Each gel was cut into 5 slices and subjected 
to trypsin digestion and followed by LC-MS/MS analysis. Using the Mascot search engine (score>32, 
false-discovery rate: 1.5% by decoy database search), five fractions in the two SDS-PAGEs generated 
1,438 proteins with 7,247 peptides. Due to the low resolution of SDS-PAGE separation, many proteins 
 
 
28
R2 (x64 edition service pack 2 with a 64-bit AMD Opteron Processor 2210 CPU 1.8GHz GHz 
processors, SATA hard disk 7200 rpm 500 GB, and 8G RAM). It is noteworthy that IDEAL-Q can be 
executed on a personal computer with the Windows platform. Depending on the user’s experiment 
design, IDEAL-Q provides flexible quantitation mechanisms, including support for various 
normalization schemes and fractionation strategies. Specifically, IDEAL-Q supports central tendency 
normalization, linear regression normalization, and quantile normalization (34).  
IDEAL-Q also provides a handy user interface for output visualization, validation, and 
quantitation results, as shown by the screenshot in Figure 8. This output interface displays protein and 
peptide lists with the calculated ratios and all identification information, annotated MS/MS spectra, 
visualization of quantified peptide peaks, and other statistical charts. It also facilitates fast 
re-quantitation after the selection or removal of user-selected peptide ions. To enable users to prepare 
supplementary data from their quantitation results, several output formats, including the pdf, csv, and 
html formats, are supported by IDEAL-Q. 
Conclusion 
In this paper, we present a robust, generic data analysis platform, called IDEAL-Q, for XIC-based 
label-free quantitative proteomics. It is compatible with different database search engines and mass 
spectrometers. To avoid the time-consuming computation required to align shifted peptide peaks, we 
use the fragmental regression method to predict the potential chromatographic shift and use signal 
processing techniques to detect unidentified peptides in all LC-MS/MS runs for peptide 
cross-assignment. Because of accurate elution time prediction, peptide/protein quantitation coverage is 
increased substantially over that achieved by the conventional identity-based approach. Furthermore, 
applying rigorous SCI validation on detected peptide peak clusters can filter out overlapping peaks or 
noisy data to ensure high quantitation accuracy. We demonstrated the quantitation performance of 
IDEAL-Q on a standard protein mixture and a proteome scale by a replicate experiment on the THP-1 
cell line, and manually validated results to further verify IDEAL-Q’s performance.  
 
 
30
using amine-reactive isobaric tagging reagents. Mol. Cell. Proteomics 3, 1154-1169 
3.  Yao, X., Freas, A., Ramirez, J., Demirev, P. A., and Fenselau, C. (2001) Proteolytic 18O labeling 
for comparative proteomics: model studies with two serotypes of adenovirus. Anal. Chem. 73, 
2836-2842 
4.  Ong, S. E., Blagoev, B., Kratchmarova, I., Kristensen, D. B., Steen, H., Pandey, A., and Mann, M. 
(2002) Stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture, SILAC, as a simple and accurate 
approach to expression proteomics. Mol. Cell. Proteomics. 1, 376-386 
5. Ong, S. E., and Mann, M. (2005) Mass spectrometry-based proteomics turns quantitative. Nat. 
Chem. Biol. 1, 252-262 
6. Ross, P. L., Huang, Y. N., Marchese, J. N., Williamson, B., Parker, K., Hattan, S., Khainovski, N., 
Pillai, S., Dey, S., Daniels, S., Purkayastha, S., Juhasz, P., Martin, S., Bartlet-Jones, M., He, F., 
Jacobson, A., and Pappin, D. J. (2004) Multiplexed protein quantitation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
using amine-reactive isobaric tagging reagents. Mol. Cell. Proteomics 3,  1154-1169 
7.  Chelius, D., and Bondarenko, P. V. (2002) Quantitative profiling of proteins in complex mixtures 
using liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry. J. Proteome Res. 1, 317-323 
8.  Bondarenko, P. V., Chelius, D., and Shaler, T. A. (2002) Identification and relative quantitation of 
protein mixtures by enzymatic digestion followed by capillary reversed-phase liquid 
chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Anal. Chem. 74, 4741-4749 
9.  Wang, W., Zhou, H., Lin, H., Roy, S., Shaler, T. A., Hill, L. R., Norton, S., Kumar, P., Anderle, M., 
and Becker, C. H. (2003) Quantification of proteins and metabolites by mass spectrometry without 
isotopic labeling or spiked standards. Anal. Chem. 75, 4818-4826 
10. Cutillas, P. R., Geering, B., Waterfield, M. D., and Vanhaesebroeck, B. (2005) Quantification of 
gel-separated proteins and their phosphorylation sites by LC-MS/MS using unlabeled internal 
standards: analysis of phosphoprotein dynamics in a B cell lymphoma cell line. Mol. Cell. Proteomics 
4, 1038-1051 
11. Cutillas, R. Pedro and Vanhaesebroeck, Bart (2007) Quantitative Profile of Five Murine Core 
 
 
32
profile data. BMC Bioinformatics 6 
22.  Katajamaa, M., Miettinen, J., and Oresic, M. (2006) Mzmine: toolbox for processing and 
visualization of mass spectrometry based molecular profile data. Bioinformatics 22, 634-636 
23.  Bellew, M., Coram, M., Fitzgibbon, M., Igra, M., Randolph, T., Wang, P., May, D., Eng, J., Fang, 
R., Lin, C., Chen, J., Goodlett, D., Whiteaker, J., Paulovich, A., and McIntosh, M. (2006) A suite of 
algorithms for the comprehensive analysis of complex protein mixtures using high-resolution LC-MS. 
Bioinformatics 22, 1902-1909 
24.  Sadygov, R. G., Maroto, F. M., and Huhmer, A. F. (2006) ChromAlign: A two-step algorithmic 
procedure for time alignment of three-dimensional LC-MS/MS chromatographic surfaces. Anal. Chem. 
78, 8207-8217 
25.  Prince, J. T., and Marcotte, E. M. (2006) Chromatographic alignment of ESI-LC-MS/MS 
proteomics data sets by ordered bijective interpolated warping. Anal. Chem. 78, 6140-6152 
26. Prakash, A., Mallick, P., Whiteaker, J., Zhang, H., Paulovich, A., Flory, M., Lee, H., Aebersold, 
R., and Schwikowski, B. (2006) Signal maps for mass spectrometry-based comparative proteomics. 
Mol. Cell. Proteomics 5, 423-432 
27. Zimmer, J. S., Monroe, M. E., Qian, W. J., and Smith, R. D. (2006) Advances in proteomics data 
analysis and display using an accurate mass and time tag approach. Mass Spectrom. Rev. 25, 450–482 
28. Mueller, L. N., Rinner, O., Schmidt, A., Letarte, S., Bodenmiller, B., Brusniak, M. Y., Vitek, O., 
Aebersold, R., and Muller, M. (2007) SuperHirn – a novel tool for high resolution LC-MS-based 
peptide/protein profiling. Proteomics 7. 2470-2480 
29. Andreev, V. P., Li, L., Cao, L., Gu, Y., Rejtar, T., Wu, S.-L., and Karger, B. L. (2007) A New 
Algorithm Using Cross-Assignment for Label-Free Quantitation with LC/LTQ-FT MS. J. Proteome 
Res. 6, 2186-2194 
30. Ryu, S., Gallis, B., Goo, Y. A., Shaffer, S. A., Radulovic, D., and Goodlett, D. R. (2008) 
Comparision of a Label-Free Quantitative Proteomic Method Based on Peptide Ion Current Area to the 
Isotope Coded Affinity Tag Method. Cancer Informatics. 6, 243-255. 
 
 
34
Figure Legends 
Figure 1. Workflow of IDEAL-Q  
Figure 2. Validation of IDEAL-Q’s protein quantitation:  Serially diluted proteins mixed with 
E.coli cell lysate were quantified by IDEAL-Q. (A) The protein ratios of the 20 proteins in E.coli cell 
lysate. The result is close to the expected ratio 1. (B) Five concentrations of BSA quantified by 
IDEAL-Q show the good linearity of the quantitation and good sensitivity in a highly dynamic range. 
Figure 3. Correlation of the peptide elution times of the THP-1 cell line biological replicate: The 
elution times of commonly identified peptides in the first runs of two replicate samples are used to 
show the correlation. The R2 value of 0.9999 and the slope of 1.011 demonstrate that the LC system is 
stable and reproducible.  
Figure 4. Comparison of the results derived by the conventional ID-based strategy and 
IDEAL-Q in the THP-1 cell line biological replicate experiment: (A) The number of quantifiable 
peptides, the CVs of peptide sample abundance, and the CVs of the protein ratios on the four peptide 
sets, two of which correspond to the ID-based strategy and two correspond to IDEAL-Q quantitation 
strategy. (B) The peptide ratio distributions on the four peptide sets. Compared with the identity-based 
quantitation strategy, IDEAL-Q achieves high quantitation accuracy and increases the number of 
quantifiable peptides substantially. 
Figure 5. Manually validated results of the THP-1 cell line biological replicate experiment: A 
total of 11,940 peptide ion quantitations were manually validated. The results demonstrate the high 
accuracy rates achieved by SCI validation and peptide alignment. 
Figure 6. Correlation of peptide elution times in the heterogeneous LC systems experiment: The 
commonly identified peptides are plotted as gray circles based on the identified elution times of the 
first runs of the two biological replicates obtained from two different LC systems. The figure shows the 
prediction curves of three methods. The correlations (R2) between the plotted points and the prediction 
curves show that the IDEAL curve has the best data fit; therefore, it can predict the most accurate 
peptide elution times.  
 
 
36
 
Figure 1. 
 
 
38
 
Figure 3 
 
 
40
   
Figure 5.
 
 
42
 
Figure 7. 
 
 
 
44
Table Legends 
Table 1. Quantitation results of four proteins with different concentrations.  
Table 2. Performance of IDEAL’s elution time prediction, which was tested by k-fold cross 
validation.  
Table 3. The effect of SCI validation on quantitation 
 
 
46
Table 2. 
ID-time  Linear Regression  IDEAL 
K-fold validation 
Average error SD  Average error SD  Average error SD 
2 34.02  5.49   1.24  1.70  0.39  0.54  
3 34.02  5.49   1.24  1.70  0.39  0.55  
4 34.02  5.49   1.24  1.70  0.39  0.54  
5 34.02  5.49   1.24  1.69  0.39  0.53  
 
  
 
 
48
五、出國報告 
 
1)第七屆亞太生物資訊會議  The 7th Asia Pacific Bioinformatics Conference   
98 年 1 月 13 日~1 月 16 日，中國北京       報告人:陳鯨太 
 
2)分子生物智慧系統及歐洲計算生物學聯合會議 
International conference on Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology and European  
Conference on Computational Biology  
98 年 6 月 27~7 月 2 日，瑞典  期德哥爾摩   報告人：羅光倫 
 
Xiaowo Wang（Tsinghua University, China）等。我也得到機會與來自澳洲 RMIT University
的 Dr. Xiuzhen Zhang, Dr. Phoebe Chen，以及其它國際學者討論，獲得許多啟發。同時也
與來自台灣的 Yu-Feng Huang, Chia-Jui Yang 等人進行學術方面的交流。 
二、與會心得 
從今年的 keynote speech 和論文報告中不難發現，生物資訊目前最熱門的不過於是轉
錄體學（transcriptomics），7 個 invited lectures 裡就佔了 3 個，宣告了 RNA 研究在生物
資訊領域越來越受到重視，其中包括了 microRNA, RNAi 等的轉譯(translation)以及穩定
性(stability)研究，Dr. Tao Jiang 實驗室的”Computational prediction of novel non-coding 
RNAs in Arabidopsis thaliana”，則是利用計算生物學的技術，來預測新的 non-coding RNAs
在阿拉伯芥基因體序列上出現的位置。 
另外一個熱門題目為系統生物學（systems biology）和基因表現量分析（gene 
expression analysis），這代表生物資訊已經從點擴張到面，從單一基因、疾病的研究擴張
到整個生物系統的變化。一位 keynote speaker，Dr. David Lipman 就以”Molecular evolution 
and epidemiology of seasonal influenza”為題目演講。在發表的論文中，有許多利用文獻分
析、或統計學等技巧作系統生物學相關的研究。 
跟本實驗室有關的蛋白質結構預測（protein structure prediction）方面，在這
篇”Predicting disorder regions in proteins using the profiles of amino indices” 論文中，Dr. 
Xiuzhen Zhang 先使用 AAIndex 資料庫裡氨基酸的各種物化特性，透過 heuristic feature 
selection 的方法從五百多個特徵值擷取出最重要的 5 個，用這五個特徵來表示 20 種氨基
酸，之後採用已存在多年的 random forest 方法預測蛋白質結構中的觸發蛋白質折疊區域
（protein disorder region），獲得不錯的正確率，她的實驗方法值得我們參考。 
在蛋白質細胞定位預測（Protein subcelluar localization prediction）方面，這次會議收
錄了兩篇文章。其中一篇 Dr. Doheon Lee 實驗室，這篇”A method to improve protein 
subcellular localization prediction by integrating various biological data sources”論文中，提出
一個結合各種如蛋白質交互作用（protein-protein interaction）和基因共同表現量（gene 
co-expression）等網路資訊（network information），來提升蛋白直細胞定位準確率的方法。
另一篇由香港團隊的”Semi-supervised protein subcellular localizaiton”論文，雖然對蛋白質
細胞定位準確度的提升並沒有太大幫助，但也提供一個由 semi-supervised learning 以及
co-training 來解決該問題的新思考方向，這個方法恰好符合我目前蛋白脢受體預測機的需
求，可以成為將來追求突破的一個方向。另外，會議中也有論文針對蛋白質形成澱粉纖
維區段作預測，因為這個區段已證明和 Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease 有高度相
關，會議中雖然提出一套作法但正確率仍有改進空間，這可以成為我們將來潛在的方向。 
三、收集之會議資料 
本次會議之論文集和壁報集均收錄在會議集中。 
 
  
 
97年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：宋定懿 計畫編號：97-2221-E-001-016-MY2 
計畫名稱：無標記蛋白質定量之資訊系統 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
