 1
?????????????? 
The Collision and Combustion Behaviors of Collision-Merged Droplets – Alkanes and Water 
?????NSC 94-2212-E-002-045 
?????94?8?1??95?11?30? 
????????? 
???????????? 
 
Abstract 
 
The combustion characteristics of freely falling droplets, individually generated by the merging of colliding 
alkanes and water droplets, were investigated.  The merging of nominally immiscible alkanes and water was 
initially manifested either in an apparently adhesive manner, or with water droplet inserting into alkane droplet.  
With the elevating of temperature, except for those with sufficiently high water fraction, the inserted water droplet 
was completely enclosed by alkane.  For which, alkane fuel was the only possible component undergoing 
gasification and subsequently combustion, such that the burning was very much similar to that of pure alkane but 
terminated either with droplet “flash vaporization” or “extinction”, with the size approximately same as the 
colliding water droplet.  The droplets that have the small merged size and stay in adhesive mode at the elevating 
temperature might still be ignited, but only terminated with droplet extinction.  In all cases, droplets burning time 
decreased with the increasing of water fraction; and the consequence, water addition enhanced the fuel mass 
consumption rate. 
 
Keywords: Collision-merged droplet, flash vaporization, extinction 
 
1. Introduction 
The satisfactory performance of diesel engines, furnaces, and 
gas turbines is closely affected by the heterogeneous nature of the 
combustion processes, which can result in deleterious outcomes 
such as high emission levels of NOx and particulates.  The 
possibility of using water to modify the performance of those 
devices has been substantial interested ever since Hopkinson 
(1913) sprayed water into the combustion chamber.  Since water 
and oil do not mix, thus in the studies, water and oil were injected 
separately into the combustion chamber, or formed emulsions and 
then injected.  Obviously, the results of direct injecting water into 
those devices can lower the combustion temperature thus the 
emission of NOx, or increase the fuel ass flux at a limited furnace 
temperature thus the overall power output.  For emulsions, the 
results further showed that the possible of the improving fuel 
efficiency and reducing particulate emission (Cornet and Nero, 
1955; Valdmanis and Wulfhorst, 1970; Greeves et al., 1976; 
Murayama, 1978; Wang and Ni, 1996; Lin and Wang, 2004). 
Fundamental study on the combustion of water/oil emulsion 
initiated by Ivanov and Nefedov (1965), followed by Lasheras et 
al. (1979), Wang and Law (1985), and Wang and Chen (1996), and 
reported that the droplet of these emulsions underwent 
spontaneous or consecutive explosions during combustion.  It was 
thus suggested that this so-called microexplosion event was 
responsible for the observed faster burning rate, improved 
combustion characteristics, and reduced particulate emissions.  
And a comprehensive model was formulated by Law (1977) to 
describe the gasification mechanism of emulsions and the criterion 
governing the onset of microexplosion of emulsion droplets. 
The study (Wang et al., 2004) found that a single entity which 
consisting of the nominally immiscible masses of oil and water 
was frequently formed by direct colliding a hexadecane droplet 
with a water droplet.  The burning characteristics of hexadecane 
droplets were affected and not unlike that due to emulsification.  
The burning outcomes of the collision-generated droplets still 
retain the various beneficial effects just described for water 
emulsifications, specifically, microexplosion phenomena. 
In viewing of the structural difference between 
collision-generated and water- emulsified droplets, consequently, 
leading to the difference in burning behaviors.  In the present study 
we have, thus, extended the investigation on the family of alkane 
which have well-defined properties and wide ranges of volatility, 
and found some different features that relates to different 
collision-merged alkanes/water droplets. 
In the next section the experimental aspects on the investigation 
will be specified, which will be followed by presentation and 
discussion of the experimental results.. 
2. Experimental Apparatus and Procedure 
The experimental apparatus and procedure were described in 
Wang et al. (1984, 2004) and hence will only be briefly discussed 
here.  Specifically, two independently controlled droplet streams 
with the same droplet generation rate were produced using a 
modified ink-jet printing technique, and were made to collide in 
the desired manner by manipulating the phase difference and/or 
the relative positions of the two generators.  The collided droplets 
then fell through a small vertical connecting channel into a 
burner-generated, high-temperature, quartz tubing confined 
oxidizing environment in which the droplets ignited and burned.  
The droplets entered the combustion chamber with a velocity of 
~70 cm/sec, while the environment had a maximum temperature 
of 1030 ? with approximately 18 ?/cm declining, and oxygen 
concentration of 23.5 vol.%.  The maximum Reynolds number of 
the droplet is less than 1.  According to previous discussion (Wang 
 
3
Referring to the results of collision-outcomes - the smaller of 
the final merging droplets size leads the easier of the surface 
broken.  It then could deduce that the flame appearance with the 1st 
approach is mainly due to the burning of hexadecane, and the 
enclosed, high heat capacity water droplet is simply served as a 
heat sink.  The dramatic change in flame color of photo in Fig. 2(c) 
with the 2nd approach was attributed by the presence of water 
vapor, due to the exposure of water droplet. 
For the collision-merged water/dodecane and water/heptane 
droplets, with fixing the fuel size at ~280 mµ  and increasing the 
water size, which still could be ignited for water fraction high as 
0.7 or even much higher.  For water/dodecane, as the water 
fraction close to 0.7, the inserted water droplet might start to 
expose to the environment during the reaction, and the light 
intensity was then weakened.  For water/heptane, even the water 
fraction was up to 0.7, the flame was still bright as that of pure 
heptane. 
After the steady burning period, the flame streaks were 
terminated either with droplet explosion - that droplet disintegrates 
into mists or pieces, or with droplet extinction - that an integrated 
droplet still exists after the disappearance of the flame.  In both 
cases, the appearance of flame terminations was quite similar, with 
gradually disappearing of the faint-blue flames.  However, for the 
explosion cases, the flame tips are flattened and one can 
continuously hear the violently explosive sound. 
For the collision-merged water/hexadecane droplets, with the 1st 
approach, the flame with droplet extinction occurred in a finite 
region that with low water fractions, say <0.11; and the flame with 
droplet explosion occurred at higher water fractions to that the 
merging droplet could no longer be ignited.  With the 2nd approach, 
the merged droplet could burn even with water fraction high as 
~0.84; the flame, terminated with droplet extinction as water 
fraction was higher than ~0.65, and with droplet explosion for rest 
of tests.  For water/dodecane and water/heptane droplets, all the 
flames were terminated with droplet extinction. 
Some works were also undertaken on the collision-merged 
water/octadecane droplets, by fixing the final merged droplet sizes 
at ~320 mµ .  The flame appearance of water fraction at ~0.25 and 
0.5 was very much similar to that of the water/hexadecane droplet 
and ended with flatten tip - indicating droplet explosion.  The 
flame streak at water fraction of ~0.75 was faint blue, which 
indicated the exposure of water droplet, and terminated with 
droplet extinction. 
It should addressed that the light emitted by droplet explosion of 
water/hexadecane and /octadecane was invisible, which should 
indicate that there is no much fuel left for the final disintegrated 
droplet.  That will then be further discussed in later section on 
extinction and microexplosion of droplets. 
Early microexplosion was observed in Wang et al. (2004) for 
the collision-merged water/hexadecane droplets, which was called 
as “heterogeneous” nucleation, caused by the air bubble trapped 
within the merged droplet, and it then associated with a branched 
flame.  In the study, it was also occasionally observed for the 
merged water/dodecane droplets. 
 
3.3 Ignition Delays 
Figure 3 shows the ignition delays ( igt ) of the collision-merged 
water/hexadecane droplets, and the results were obtained by two 
different approaches as well.  The final merged droplet sizes were 
from 280-400 mµ , such that the corresponding water fractions 
were 0-0.65 for the 1st approach, and the corresponding water 
volume fractions 0.36-0.84 (or 0.64-0.16 hexadecane) for the 2nd 
approach.  The ignition delay of pure hexadecane droplet at the 
corresponding size was also determined for the comparison, which 
increases with the increasing of droplet size and is reasonably 
expected (Law, 1978). 
For the investigations with the 1st approach, the water droplet 
should be embedded within the merged mass, such that 
hexadecane was the only component that vaporized on the droplet 
surface.  Thus, from the chemical point of view, there is no 
difference in the ignition mechanism between the merged and pure 
hexadecane droplets.  And the slightly increasing of ignition delay 
for the merged droplet was simply caused by the somewhat higher 
heat capacity of water, which slows the temperature rising of 
droplet.  As the water fraction was close to 0.65, the exposure of 
water droplet then lead the merged droplet can no longer be 
ignited. 
For those with the 2nd approach, result shows that the merged 
droplet could still be ignited even as the water fraction up to 0.84, 
but with a very much prolonged ignition delay.  Previous results 
showed that the merged droplets with water fraction higher than 
~0.65 is possibly with the exposure of water droplet, in this regime, 
the effect on ignition delay by decreasing water fraction (caused 
by the increasing of hexadecane) overwhelmed the increasing of 
merged droplet size, thus the ignition delay decreased with the 
decreasing of water fraction.  Further increasing hexadecane, the 
colliding water droplet then was completely enclosed.  The effect 
of decreasing water fraction was gradually offset by increasing the 
merged droplet size, the trend of ignition delay was leveled off and 
started to increase.  Finally, the ignition delay obtained with the 2nd 
approach was getting close to that of pure hexadecane as further 
increasing hexadecane. 
The ignitability of merged droplets with the exposure of water 
droplet thus might arise some interesting burning phenomena.  
Temperature of merged droplet starts to rise as it exposed to high 
temperature environment.  However, the temperature on droplet 
surface deduced by Raoult’s Law (Law, 1977) will not be 
followed; instead, two temperature distributions should coexist on 
each side of water and fuel.  That is, the surface temperature on 
water side is limited by the boiling point of water and on fuel side 
should be high enough to have fuel vapors to achieve the ignition 
and sustain the successive burning.  However, the high heat 
capacity and latent heat of water slows the temperature rising of 
water surface; and indirectly, the heat transfer from hexadecane to 
water then slows the temperature rising of hexadecane.  Thus, the 
ignition delay were then very much prolonged and as shown in 
Fig.3. 
For pure dodecane droplet, similar to hexadecane, the ignition 
delay was increased as the increasing of its size; and for heptane, 
the ignition delay was no longer monotonic increased as the size, 
which was observed in previous and attributed to the 
“chemical-reaction-controlled regime” (Takei et al., 1993; Wang 
and Liou, 1996).  For merged water/dodecane and water/heptane 
droplets, tests were conducted only with the 1st approach.  Within 
the test range, as water fraction up to ~0.7, the result shows that the 
ignition delay was almost not affected by the adding of water, 
which is corresponding to the enclosure of water droplet.  And the 
results are grouped in Fig. 4. 
 
5
combustion environment until it exploded.  Consequently, the 
effective burning rate represents the most practical description to 
include various factors that affecting droplet burning.  Figure 13 
shows that, with the aid of microexplosion, the effective burning 
rates do increase with the increasing of water fraction.  And as the 
merged droplets ended with droplet extinction, the effective 
burning rate was no longer valid. 
Without microexplosion, the above results gave an impression 
that the adding water only has deteriorated affected on droplet 
combustion.  However, it might give a different view if one looks 
the results from the point of “pure fuel consumption rate".  The 
fuel consumption rate is traditionally defined as 
dt/dmm fuelfuel =& ; or for simplicity, we defined the global fuel 
consumption rate as olfuelfuel t/mm ∆=& , where fuelm  is the 
alkane mass within merged droplet.  Figure 14 then plots the 
“normalized” result, that is, the ratio of fuel consumption rate of 
merged droplet with fixing alkane size at ~280 mµ  to that of pure 
alkane size at ~280 mµ .  The results show that the global fuel 
consumption rate always increases with the increasing of water 
fraction.  It becomes quite clear afterward, during the burning 
period, KDmfuel ⋅∝& , thus a largely increasing of droplet size D 
but slightly decreasing of burning rate K for water-embedded 
droplets can significantly increase the fuel consumption rate.  
Accordingly, the burning characteristics within the practical 
combustor are modified through the spraying strategy. 
4. Concluding Remarks 
Results and understanding gained from the present study can be 
summarized in the following: 
1. Droplets of two immiscible liquids, water and alkane in present 
study, can merge upon collision with adhesive and insertive 
merging modes.  At the elevating temperature, the originally 
adhesive merged droplet might change to insertive one, and 
water droplet was completely enclosed by alkane; for those 
with sufficiently high water fraction and small water size, the 
water droplet might always partially expose to ambience. 
2. Comparing with pure alkanes, the merged droplets with the 
enclosure of water droplet have a little increasing of the ignition 
delay.  And once the enclosed water droplet exposing to 
ambience, the ignition delay then increases sharply, or leads to 
no ignition. 
3. For merged water/alkane droplets with the enclosure of water 
droplet, the flame appearance was similar to that of pure alkane 
prior to extinction and microexplosion.  And once water droplet 
exposing to ambience, the simultaneously vaporizing of water 
and alkane had the flame color changed dramatically. 
4. Homogenous nucleation of water droplet was never occurred in 
the tests.  Flash vaporization, a suddenly vaporization of 
enclosed and superheated water droplet as it expose to the 
ambience, was observed for some of merged water/octadecane 
and /hexadecane droplets.  Heterogeneous nucleation, induced 
by the trapped air bubble, was occasionally observed for 
merged water/octadecane, /hexadecane and /dodecane droplets.  
Extinction of merged droplet was observed for the rest of tests. 
5. Average and overall burning rates for merged water/alkanes 
droplets are decreased with water addition, and if with 
microexplosion, effective burning rate is increased.  In all cases, 
pure fuel mass consumption rate is increased with the adding of 
water. 
6. The different aspects of combustion characteristics for 
collision-merged droplets, through proper spraying strategy, 
can furnish a prospective future in spray combustion. 
5. References 
N. Ashgriz, P. Givi, Binary Collision Dynamics of Fuel Droplets, 
International Journal of Heat Fluid Flow 8 (3) (1987), 205-210. 
N. Ashgriz, J.Y. Poo, Coalescence and Separation in Binary 
Collision of Liquid Drops, Journal of Fluid Mechanics 221 (1990), 
183-204. 
W.W. Bathie, Fundamentals of Gas Turbines, 2nd ed., John Wiley 
& Sons, Inc. New York, 1995. 
M. Blander, J.L. Katz, Bubble Nucleation in Liquids, AICHE J. 21 
(5) (1975), 833-848. 
S.H. Chung, C.K. Law, An Experimental Study of Droplet 
Extinction in the Absence of External Convection, Combustion 
and Flame 64 (1986), 237-252. 
I. Cornet, W.E. Nero, Emulsified Fuels in Compression Ignition 
Engines, Industry and Engineering Chemistry 47 (1955), 
2133-2141. 
G. Greeves, I.M. Khan, G. Onion, Effects of Water Induction on 
Diesel Engine Combustion and Emissions, 16th International 
Symposium on Combustion (1976), 321-336. 
B.P. Hopkinson, Proceedings of the Institute of Mechanical 
Engineering (1913), 679. 
V.M. Ivanov, P.I. Nefedov, Experimental Investigation of the 
Combustion Process of Natural and Emulsified Liquid Fuels, 
NASA Tech. Translation TTF-258, 1965. 
Y.J. Jiang, A. Umemura, C.K. Law, An Experimental 
Investigation on the Collision Behavior of Hydrocarbon Droplets, 
Journal of Fluid Mechanics 234 (1992), 171-190. 
J.C. Lasheras, A.C. Fernandez-Pello, F.L. Dryer, Initial 
Observations on the Free Droplet Combustion Characteristics of 
Water-in-Fuel Emulsions, Combustion Science and Technology 
21 (1979), 1-14. 
C.K. Law, F.A. Williams, Kinetics and Convection in the 
Combustion of Alkane Droplets, Combustion and Flame 19 
(1972), 393-406. 
C.K. Law, A model for the Combustion of Oil/Water Emulsion 
Droplets, Combustion Science and Technology 17 (1977), 29-38. 
C.K. Law, Theory of Thermal Ignition in Fuel Droplet Burning, 
Combustion and Flame 31 (1978), 285-296. 
C.Y. Lin, K.H. Wang, Diesel Engine Performance and Emission 
Characteristics Using Three-Phase Emulsions as Fuel, Fuel 83 
(2005), 537-545. 
 
7
Figure 4 Ignition delays of merged water/dodecane and 
water/heptane droplets 
 
 
       
(a) flash vaporization           (b) heterogeneous explosion 
        Figure 5 Different views of droplet explosion and flame 
images 
0.3 0.34 0.380.28 0.32 0.36 0.4
Droplet size (mm)
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
D
ro
pl
et
 d
ia
m
et
er
 a
t e
xt
in
ct
io
n 
or
 e
xp
lo
si
on
 (m
m
) water/hexadecane with water - 0.28 mm
(0) (0.19) (0.33) (0.44) (0.53) (0.6) (0.65)
waer/hexadecane with hexadecane - 0.28 mm
( ): water or hexadecane fraction
explosion
extinction
explosion
extinction
 
Figure 6 Droplet sizes at flame extinction for merged 
water/hexadecane droplet 
 
0.3 0.34 0.38 0.420.28 0.32 0.36 0.4 0.44
Droplet size (mm)
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
D
ro
pl
et
 d
ia
m
et
er
 a
t e
xt
in
ct
io
n 
(m
m
)
(0) (0.33) (0.53) (0.65) (0.74)(0.19) (0.44) (0.6) (0.7)
( ): water fraction
water/dodecane, with dodecane - 0.28 mm
water/heptane with heptane - 0.28 mm
 
 
Figure 7 Droplet sizes at flame extinction for merged 
water/dodecane and water/heptane droplets 
0.3 0.34 0.380.28 0.32 0.36 0.4
Droplet size (mm)
0
50
100
150
200
250
B
ur
ni
ng
 ti
m
e 
an
d 
lif
et
im
e 
(m
s)
(0) (0.19) (0.33) (0.44) (0.53) (0.6) (0.65)
( ): water or hexadecane fraction
(1)  lifetime of pure hexadecane
(2)  burning time of pure hexadecane
(3)  lifetime of W/H with H - 0.28 mm
(4)  burning time of W/H with H - 0.28 mm
(5)  lifetime of W/H with W - 0.28 mm
(6)  burning time of W/H with W - 0.28 mm 
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(6)
(5)
 
Figure 8 Burning times and lifetimes of merged and pure 
hexadecane droplets 
0.3 0.34 0.38 0.420.28 0.32 0.36 0.4 0.44
Droplet size (mm)
0
50
100
150
200
250
B
ur
ni
ng
 ti
m
e 
an
d 
lif
et
im
e 
(m
s)
(0) (0.33) (0.53) (0.65) (0.74)(0.19) (0.44) (0.6) (0.7)
( ): water fraction
(1)  lifetime of pure heptane
(2)  burning time of pure heptane
(3)  lifetime of water/heptane
(4)  burning time of water/heptane
(5)  lifetime of pure dodecane
(6)  burning time of pure dodecane
(7)  lifetime of water/dodecane
(8)  burning time of water/dodecane (5)
(7)
(8)
(3)
(4)
(6) (1)
(2)
 
Figure 9 Burning times and lifetimes of merged and pure dodecane, 
heptane droplets 
 
0.3 0.34 0.380.28 0.32 0.36 0.4
Droplet size (mm)
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
B
ur
ni
ng
 ra
te
s 
(m
m
  /
se
c)
( ): water or hexadecane volume fraction
(0) (0.19) (0.33) (0.44) (0.53) (0.6) (0.65)
2
average burning rate
overall burning rate
overall burning rate
pure hexadecane
average burning rate
warer size fixed: ~o.28 mm
hexadecane size fixed: ~0.28 mm
overall burning rate
average burning rate
 
The Burning Characteristics of Collision-Merged Alkane/Water Droplets 
 
C.H. Wang*, C.Z. Lin, H.C. Wen, and K.L Pan 
Department of Mechanical Engineering 
National Taiwan University 
Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of China 
 
 
 
 
The Sixth Annual Emerging Information Technology Conference (EITC 2006) 
Dallas, TX USA, August 10-12, 2006. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*Corresponding author: C.H. Wang 
National Taiwan University  
Department of Mechanical Engineering 
Taipei, Taiwan, 106 Republic of China 
Phone: 886-2-33662728 
Fax: 886-2-23631755 
E-mail: chinghua@ntu.edu.tw  
 The Burning Characteristics of Collision-Merged 
Alkane/Water Droplets 
 
C.H. Wang*, C.Z. Lin, H.C. Wen, K.L Pan 
Department of Mechanical Engineering 
National Taiwan University 
Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of China 
The 6th Annual Emerging Information Technology Conference 
Dallas, TX USA, August 10-12, 2006. 
*Corresponding author, E-mail: chinghua@ntu.edu.tw 
 
ABSTRACT 
The combustion characteristics of freely falling droplets, 
individually generated by the merging of colliding alkanes and 
water droplets, were investigated.  The merging of nominally 
immiscible alkanes and water was manifested either in an 
apparently adhesive manner, or with water droplet inserting 
into alkane droplet.  With the elevating of temperature, except 
for those with sufficiently high water fraction, the inserted 
water droplet was completely enclosed by alkanes.  For which, 
alkane fuel was the only possible component undergoing 
gasification and subsequently combustion, such that the 
burning was very much similar to that of pure alkane but 
terminated either with droplet “flash vaporization” or 
“extinction”, with the size approximately same as the colliding 
water droplet.  In all cases, droplets burning time decreased 
with the increasing of water fraction; and the consequence, 
water addition enhanced the fuel mass consumption rate. 
Keywords: Collision-merged droplet, flash vaporization, 
extinction 
I. INTRODUCTION 
At present, the diesel engine is still the most fuel-efficient 
combustion engine and captured over half of the world market 
share in vehicles, especially for the heavy loaded trucks.  And 
the increasing shortage of petroleum supply, a more widely 
used of it is foreseeable.  However, the satisfactory 
performance of diesel engines is closely affected by the 
heterogeneous nature of the combustion processes, which can 
result in deleterious outcomes such as high emission levels of 
NOx and particulates.  The possibility of using water to 
modify the performance of diesel engines has been substantial 
interested ever since Hopkinson [1] sprayed water into the 
combustion chamber.  Since water and oil do not mix, thus in 
the studies, water and oil were injected separately into the 
combustion chamber, or formed emulsions and then injected.  
Obviously, the results of directly injecting water into diesel 
engines can lower the combustion temperature thus the 
emission of NOx.  For emulsions, the results further showed 
that the possible of the improving fuel efficiency and reducing 
particulate emission [2-4]. 
Fundamental studies [5-7] on the combustion of water/oil 
emulsion reported that the droplet of these emulsions 
underwent spontaneous or consecutive explosions during 
combustion.  It was thus suggested that this so-called 
microexplosion event was responsible for the observed faster 
burning rate, improved combustion characteristics, and reduced 
particulate emissions. 
The study [8] found that a single entity which consisting of 
the nominally immiscible masses of oil and water was 
frequently formed by direct colliding a hexadecane droplet 
with a water droplet, and the burning characteristics of merged 
droplets were affected and not unlike that due to 
emulsification. 
In the present study we have, thus, extended the 
investigation on the family of alkane, and found some different 
features that relates to different collision-merged alkanes/water 
droplets. 
In the next section the experimental aspects on the 
investigation will be specified, which will be followed by 
presentation and discussion of the experimental results. 
 
II. EXPERIMENTAL APPARATUS AND PROCEDURE 
The experimental apparatus and procedure were described in 
Wang et al. [8], specifically, two independently controlled 
droplet streams with the same droplet generation rate were 
produced using a modified ink-jet printing technique, and were 
made to collide in the desired manner by manipulating the 
phase difference of the two generators.  The collided droplets 
then fell through a small vertical connecting channel into a 
burner-generated, high-temperature, quartz tubing confined 
oxidizing environment in which the droplets ignited and 
burned. 
A strobe light synchronized with the droplet generators, with 
variable phase lag was used to freeze the moving droplets at 
various stages of their lifetime.  Enlarged droplet images were 
recorded by a CCD camera with a Baush & Lomb 
Mono-zoom-7 long focus microscopic lens. 
The droplet size was varied by the altering size of the glass 
nozzle.  In the experiment, most of tests were conducted with 
fixing alkane droplet size at ~280 mµ and varying the 
colliding water droplet size.  Data of pure alkane droplets 
with the corresponding merged diameters were also determined 
for the comparison.  Technical grade octadecane, hexadecane, 
dodecane and heptane with purity greater than 99% were 
chosen as the base fuels because of their known properties.  
Purified water was obtained from water supply line and 
 droplet, the temporal variation of the square of droplet diameter 
is not quite linear.  More complex burning phenomena for the 
collision-merged water/alkane droplet, such as embedding or 
exposure of water droplet, extinction or explosion phenomena, 
was accompanied during the droplet burning processes.  Thus 
it may have many ways to define the global burning rates that 
account for the processes of ignition, steady burning, extinction, 
and microexplosion, based on the measured data: initial droplet 
diameter oD ; the extinction and microexplosion droplet 
diameters, extD  and expD ; the actual burning time of the 
droplet 1t∆ , which is the time between ignition and the 
occurrence of extinction or microexplosion of the droplet; and 
the droplet lifetime olt∆ , which is the time between the instant 
the droplet is first exposed to the hot ambient and the 
occurrence of extinction or microexplosion.  We can then 
define the average, overall and effective burning rates, abK , 
obK , and effK  as 
1
2
ext
2
oab t/)DD(K ∆−=  and ol
2
ext
2
oob t/)DD(K ∆−= , 
for burning terminated by extinction, and 
1
2
exp
2
oab t/)DD(K ∆−= , ol2exp2oob t/)DD(K ∆−= , and 
ol
2
oeff t/)D(K ∆=  
for burning terminated by microexplosion or by almost 
complete burning. 
Data of the actual burning times of collision-merged 
water/hexadecane, /dodecane, and /heptane are then plot in Fig. 
4.  Thus, the different burning rates as defined can be 
calculated accordingly.  It could be seen from the figure that 
the burning times of pure alkanes increased with increasing 
droplet size.  Since the occurrence of either extinction or 
microexplosion, the burning times for the merged droplets 
decreased with the increasing of water. 
Due to the need for extra heating of embedded water droplet, 
the average and overall burning rates decreased with increasing 
water fraction of merged droplets. 
The effective burning rate is meaningful for droplets that 
were completely burned out, with or without microexplosion.    
And with the aid of microexplosion, the effective burning rates 
increase with the increasing of water fraction. 
Without microexplosion, the above results gave an 
impression that the adding water only has deteriorated affected 
on droplet combustion.  However, it might give a different 
view if one looks the results from the point of “pure fuel 
consumption rate".  Defining the global fuel consumption rate 
as olfuelfuel t/mm ∆=& , where fuelm  is the alkane mass within 
merged droplet.  Figure 5 then plots the “normalized” result, 
that is, the ratio of fuel consumption rate of merged droplet 
with fixing alkane size at ~280 mµ  to that of pure alkane size 
at ~280 mµ .  And the results clearly show that the global 
fuel consumption rate increases with the increasing of water 
fraction.  Which means a given amount of fuel can consume 
faster for the merged droplet than that of pure fuel droplet.  
Accordingly, the burning characteristics within the practical 
combustor are modified through the spraying strategy. 
IV. CONCLUSIONS 
Results and understanding gained from the present study can 
be summarized in the following: 
1. Droplets of two immiscible liquids, water and alkane in 
present study, can merge upon collision with adhesive and 
insertive merging modes.  However, at the elevating 
temperature temperature, only the insertive merging mode 
ever existed; for those with sufficiently high water fraction, 
water droplet might always partially expose to ambience. 
2. The merged droplets with the enclosure of water droplet 
have a little increasing of the ignition delay.  And once the 
enclosed water droplet exposing to ambience, the ignition 
delay increases sharply, or the droplet can not be ignited. 
3. Since the water droplet was enclosed by alkane liquid, the 
flame appearance was similar to that of pure alkane prior to 
extinction and microexplosion.  And once water droplet 
exposing to ambience, the flame was extinguished with 
droplet extinction or flash vaporization. 
4. Homogenous nucleation of water droplet was never occurred 
in the tests, even for fuel’s boiling point high as that of 
octadecane.  Heterogeneous nucleation, induced by the 
trapped air bubble, was occasionally observed for merged 
water/octadecane, /hexadecane and /dodecane droplets. 
5. Without microexplosion, the adding water only has 
deteriorated affected on those defined burning rates.  
However, pure fuel mass consumption rate is increased with 
the adding of water. 
6. The different aspects of combustion characteristics for 
collision-merged droplets were investigated, and through 
proper spraying strategy can furnish a prospective future in 
spray combustion. 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
The work at National Taiwan University was supported by 
the National Science Council of Taiwan, Republic of China. 
REFERENCES 
[1] B.P. Hopkinson, Proceedings of the Institute of Mechanical Engineering 
(1913), 679. 
[2] T. Murayama, Experimental Reduction of NOx, Smoke and BSFC in a 
Diesel Engine Using Uniquely Produced Water to Fuel Emulsion, SAE 
780224, 1978. 
[3] C.H. Wang, L.H. Ni, The Feasibility Study of Water-Oil Emulsion in 
Diesel Engine, The Chinese Journal of Mechanics 12 (4) (1996), 465-474 
[4] C.Y. Lin, K.H. Wang, Diesel Engine Performance and Emission 
Characteristics Using Three-Phase Emulsions as Fuel, Fuel 83 (2005), 
537-545. 
[5] J.C. Lasheras, A.C. Fernandez-Pello, F.L. Dryer, Initial Observations on 
the Free Droplet Combustion Characteristics of Water-in-Fuel Emulsions, 
Combustion Science and Technology 21 (1979), 1-14. 
[6] C.H. Wang, C.K. Law, Microexplosion of Fuel Droplets under High 
Pressure, Combustion and Flame 59 (1985), 53-62. 
[7] C.H. Wang, J.T. Chen, An Experimental Investigation of the Burning 
Characteristics of Water-Oil Emulsions, International Communication of 
Heat Mass Transfer 23 (6) (1996), 823-834 
[8] C.H. Wang, C.Z. Lin, W.G. Hung, W.C. Huang, C.K. Law, On the Burning 
Characteristics of Collision-Generated Water/Hexadecane Droplets, 
Combustion Science and Technology 176 (2004), 71-93 
[9] C.K. Law, A model for the Combustion of Oil/Water Emulsion Droplets, 
Combustion Science and Technology 17 (1977), 29-38. 
 
 
 
