 1 
軟性彈性球體與剛性平面之吸引接觸分析 
On the Adhesive Contact between a Soft Elastic Sphere and a Rigid Half-Space 
  
計畫編號：NSC 100- 2221 - E - 182 - 032 
執行期限：100年 8月 1日至 101年 7月 31日 
主持人：吳俊仲         執行單位：長庚大學機械系 
 
中文摘要 
本研究使用有限元素法分析奈米級軟性彈性球體與剛性半平面之彈性吸引接觸。在研究
中，使用 Lennard-Jones potential來模擬球體與平面間之作用力。因為球體接近的接觸過程中，
應力集中位置會改變，因此本研究使用 adaptively remeshing，在應力集中處使用較密之網格。
研究結果發現在 Tabor parameter較大時，拉拔力比 JKR理論預期的小。 
關鍵詞：奈米接觸、有限元素法、吸引接觸 
 
Abstract 
 Finite element method is used to analyze the elastic contact between a nano-scale soft 
elastic sphere and a rigid half space.   Lennard-Jones potential is used to approximate the force 
between the sphere and the plane.  As the sphere approaches the plane, the place of stress 
concentration will move.  Adaptive remeshing technique is used.  Thus, the meshes will be dense 
for the place where stress concentration occurs.  The results show that the pull-off force is larger 
than that of the JKR model for large Tabor parameters. 
Keywords: Finite element method, nanocontact, adhesive contact 
 
1. Introduction 
On a small scale with light loads, adhesion between solid surfaces is important.  Thus, 
adhesive contact is an important issue in micro/nano tribology.  In analyzing adhesive contact, 
there are four methods: analytical method, numerical method, molecular dynamics simulation and 
finite element method. 
The adhesive contact between perfectly elastic spheres has been investigated analytically for a 
long time.  In 1971, Johnson, Kendal and Roberts used the energy method and proposed the JKR 
model [1], which took into account the adhesive force inside the contact zone and considered the 
deformation near the rim of the contact area.  In 1975, Derjaguin, Muller and Toporov [2] 
proposed the DMT model, which took into account the adhesive force outside the contact zone, but 
ignored the deformation outside the contact area.  The DMT model was corrected by Muller, 
Derjaguin and Toporov [3] in 1983.  The JKR model and the DMT model predicted two different 
pull-off forces.  In 1977, Tabor proposed the Tabor parameter [4], which clarified the discrepancies 
between these two models.  The Tabor’s parameter can be interpreted as the ratio of the elastic 
deformation to the range of action of the adhesive forces.  Thus, the JKR model applies to large, 
compliant spheres (where the Tabor parameter and the surface energy are large), while the DMT 
model applies to small, stiff spheres (where the Tabor parameter and the surface energy are small).  
In 1992, Maugis [5] using Dugdale model, gave an analytical analysis for the transition between 
JKR and DMT models. 
Numerical analysis for the adhesive contact between spheres was firstly proposed by Muller 
Yushchenko and Derjaguin [6] in 1980.  They presented a numerical computation with the 
Lennard-Jones potential, and showed that the transition from DMT to JKR pull-off forces occurred 
with increasing Tabor’s parameter.  In 1992, Attard and Parker [7] repeated the numerical 
computation.  They found the hysteresis between the loading and unloading branches and showed 
a non-monotonic trend of the pull-off force versus the Tabor’s parameter.  Unfortunately, since 
they did not treat the singularity in an interval, the trend and the quantitative validity of their 
pull-off forces has been questioned.  The first detailed solution was done by Greenwood [8] in 
 3 




−=
612 )()(4)(
ss
esw
σσ
       (1) 
where 
)(sw  is the potential between two molecules. 
e  is the minimum potential. 
σ  is the distance where the potential is zero. 
s  is the distance between two molecules. 
Integrating equation (1) over the whole volume, the local pressure between two parallel half-spaces 
can be obtained. 




−
∆
−=
93 )()(
3
8)(
hh
hp εε
ε
γ
      (2) 
where 
)(hp  is the vertical traction. 
γ∆  is the surface energy. 
h  is the gap between two surfaces. 
ε  is the interatomic distance where the force is zero. 
 The relation between σ  and ε  is 
σε
6/1
15
2






=  
The surface energy is 
2
6
21
4ε
σρρpiγ e=∆  
where 1ρ  and 2ρ  are the number density of two bodies, respectively. 
According to Jagota and Argento [27, 28], the traction on the surface of the sphere by the 
half-space is the same as equation (2). 
In continuum mechanics, Feng [9] found that load depends on the Tabor parameter µ , which is 
3/1
32
2





 ∆
=
∗ ε
γµ
E
R
 
where ∗E  is the equivalent Young's modulus, 
2
2
2
1
2
1 111
EEE
νν −
+
−
=
∗
 
where 1E  and 2E  are the Young's modules, and 1ν  and 2ν  are Poisson ratios for two contact 
bodies, respectively.  In this research, the half-space is a rigid body.  For the rigid body, ∞=1E .  
Therefore, 
2
1
1
1 ν−
=
∗ EE  
The radius of the sphere is R .  The total load is 
∫= prdrLoad  
where r  is the polar coordinates. 
 Our research result will be compared with that of Feng's result [9]. 
 
3. Numerical Simulation 
 In the JKR model and the numerical simulation, the parabolic approximation is used for the 
profile of the sphere.  The governing equation can be written as: 
 5 
commands STATIC, STABILIZE is used.  The quasi-static analysis is also used.  At the same 
time, the step size and the condition of the CONTROLS command should be loosen. 
 When analyzing the adhesive contact, it is found that the stress concentration happens at 
the edge of the contact zone.  It is shown in figure 1. 
 
 
Figure 1. The stress distribution near contact zone for Tabor parameter 2.  The stress 
concentration appears at the edge of the contact zone. 
 
Therefore, the sphere is divided into four regions (shown in figure 2).  Each region is 
meshed with different seeds.  The region near the edge of the contact area is meshed with small 
elements.  Since the sphere is axisymmetric, two –dimensional axismmetric analysis is employed.  
The axis is set to be symmetric.  The upper surface is kept in line. 
At the beginning, the sphere is at 5ε .  Then, the sphere approaches the plane slowly.  As 
the sphere approaches the plane, the jump-in phenomenon happened for Tabor parameter more than 
0.5.  As the sphere advances, the contact zone becomes larger.  At the mean time, the adaptive 
remeshing technique is used. 
 
 
Figure 2. The finite element model.  The sphere is divided into four zones. 
 
 7 
 
Figure 4. Load vs. approach for Tabor parameter 1 for Radius 200 and 1000.  The approach and 
the pull-off lines are different. 
 
Figure 5. Load vs. approach for Tabor parameter 2 for Radius 200 and 1000.  The approach and 
the pull-off lines are different. 
 
Figures 6 and 7 show contact radius vs. load for Tabor parameter 1 and 2, respectively.  
Red line is that for R =1000ε , and blue line is that for R =200ε .  Black line is that for the 
numerical simulation.  From these two figures, it is found that the lines for R =1000 ε  are similar 
to those for numerical simulation.  The lines for R =200ε  are slightly different from those for 
numerical simulation.  The contact radii are smaller than those for numerical simulation.  The 
differences are small for R =1000ε , and are large for R =200ε . 
 
 9 
 
Fig.8. Pull-off force vs. the Tabor parameters. 
 
5. Discussion 
 Basically, the assumption for finite element analysis is different from those for numerical 
simulation.  Firstly, parabolic approximation is made for numerical simulation.  The exact sphere 
profile is used for finite element analysis.  Secondly, numerical simulation uses a point load on a 
half-space.  But, in finite element analysis, the force is acting on the sphere.  Thirdly, numerical 
simulation uses linear small deformation.  Finite element analysis uses nonlinear large deformation.  
These make the difference between finite element analysis and numerical simulation.  The JKR 
model applies for Tabor parameter ∞=µ .  It is similar to numerical simulation for large Tabor 
parameter. 
In this research, R =1000ε  and R =200ε  are used.  The sphere of R =1000ε  is large.  
Therefore, the parabolic approximation and point load on the half-space can approximate such a 
case.  But, the sphere of R =200ε  is small.  The parabolic approximation and point load on the 
half-space are not suitable.  Therefore, the results are different. 
In the JKR model, the force inside the contact zone is considered.  The pull-off force is 1.5 γ∆R .  
In the DMT model, the force outside the contact zone is considered.  The pull-force is 2 γ∆R .  As 
for the finite element analysis, the Tabor parameter is large, but the profile is exact spherical.  This 
makes the contact zone smaller.  But the adhesion force outside the contact zone is larger.  Totally, 
the pull-off force is larger than that of the JKR model.  This result is different from Greenwood's 
prediction [29].  It may need further investigation.  The result may be more accurate than 
previous research. 
 
6. Conclusion 
The adhesive contact between a soft elastic sphere and a rigid plane is investigated.  The 
force between the sphere and the half-space is governed by the Lennard-Jones potential.  As the 
sphere approaches the plane, the place where stress concentration occurs will move outsider.  In 
order to make the mesh denser for the place where stress concentration occurs, adaptive remeshing 
technique is used. 
Commercial finite element software ABAQUS is used.  The analysis is governed by python 
script.  The load-approach curve, contact radius-load curve and the load-Tabor parameter curve are 
 11 
20.
 
Mesarovic , Sinisa Dj. and Johnson, K.L., “Adhesive contact of elastic-plastic spheres”, Journal 
of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids, Vol. 48, pp. 2009-2033, 2000. 
21. Sridhar, I. and Sivashanker, S., “On the adhesion mechanics of multi-layer elastic systems”, 
Surface and Coating Technology, Vol. 167, 2003, pp. 181-187. 
22. Lin, Y.-Y. and Chen, H.-H., "Effect of large deformation and material nonlinearity on the JKR 
(Johnson-Kendall-Roberts) test of soft elastic material", Journal of Polymer Science Part B: 
Polymer Physics, vol. 44, 2006, pp. 2912-2922. 
23. 吳俊仲，「奈米彈性接觸之有限元素分析法」，94年度國科會計畫，2006。 
24. Du, Y., Chen, L., McGruer, N.E., Adams, G.G. and Etsion, I., "A finite element model of 
loading and unloading of an asperity contact with adhesion and plasticity", Journal of Colloid 
and Interface Science, Vol. 312, 2007, pp. 522–528. 
25. Sauer, R.A. and Li, S., An atomic interaction-based continuum model for adhesive contact 
mechanics", Finite Elements in Analysis and Design, Vol. 43, 2007, pp. 384–396. 
26. Radhakrishnan, H. and Mesarovic, S.Dj., "Adhesive contact of elastic spheres revisited: 
numerical models and scaling", Proc. R. Soc. A Vol. 465, 2009, pp. 2231-2249. 
27. Jagota, A. and Argento, C., "An intersurface stress tensor", Journal of Colloid and Interface 
Science, Vol. 191, 326-336, 1997. 
28. Argento, C., Jagota, A. and Carter, W.C., “Surface formulation for molecular interactions of 
macroscopic bodies”, Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids Vol. 45, No. 7, pp. 
1161-1183, 1997. 
29. Greenwood, J.A., "The adhesion of small spheres", Philosophical Magazine, Vol. 89, No. 11, pp. 
945-965, 2009. 
 2 
發現一些解析模型所無法預測的現象，並和各國學者討論，與會學者提出一些建議與評語。 
 
二、與會心得 
 本次會議是日本磨潤學會(University of Western Australia)主辦的國際磨潤研討會。日本磨潤
學會約五年會舉辦一次國際研討會，上次是 2005 年在神戶舉辦。這次選在廣島舉行，廣島有著名的馬
自達汽車公司，吸引不少歐美各國的學者參加，可以看出日本在國際學術的實力與地位。 
 本次磨潤學會議涵蓋的範圍，包括磨潤學基礎理論、潤滑、磨耗、表面工程、生物磨潤、微奈米
磨潤。本人就磨潤學的幾個相關重要演講及研究趨勢提出報告： 
(1) 在開幕的專題演講中，馬自達公司對該公司氣車的研發方向作一簡介。馬自達的研發方向，主要
是以最佳化來求的引擎的最大性能，以達綠色、環保、節約能源的目標。與其他公司以縮小引擎大
小的方向不同。但是節能的目標相同。 
(2) 開幕的第二場演講是美國的 Rigney 教授介紹材料摩擦與磨耗的相關理論。Rigney 教授原先是從
事實驗方面的研究，約在十多年前收了一個相當優秀的學生從事分子動力學的研究之後，也開始進
行數值模擬。Rigney 教授承認對於分子動力學並不了解，但是對於現象比較了解，因此，旁徵博
引，也與流體力學的現象作比較，提出很多摩擦與磨耗的理論。 
(3) 第三天，北京清華大學的雒建斌教授對薄膜潤滑作介紹。北京清華的潤滑實驗室有精密設備，充
沛的研究人力，因此，有非常多的著作與發現。在薄膜潤滑中，研究奈米級的現象，加入電壓、分
子極性的變數，有很多創新的發現。他們研究的方向非常廣博，值得學習。 
(4) 第三天的另一個演講是德國學者介紹綠色車輛。事實上，最近幾次的研討會，綠色是主流，因為
未來能源耗盡是必然會發生的現象。每個領域都要因應。因此，我國也是要朝著這個方向努力。 
(5) 我所參加的幾場討論中，最讓我印象深刻的，是有關量測的部份。其中一場中，來自挪威的學者
與日本學者不約而同提出即時量測接觸面積的設備。隨著電腦與儀器的進步，相關的技術進步相當
快。因此，可以用相關技術來作即時量測。 
(6) 另一個令人印象深刻的，是日本一家橡膠公司提出的研究成果，他們改變鞋面的粗糙型態，可以
使穿鞋的人在極度光滑的表面也不致滑倒，這個研究成果引發非常熱烈的討論。國內的相關業者，
應該也可朝這個方向去努力，對鞋的品質會有很大的提昇。 
(7) 這次出席的日本學者非常多，年長的學者英文普遍不好，但是年輕學者的英文相當流利。但是不
論英文如何，日本學者參與討論都相當積極，值得我們學習。 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/17
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 軟性彈性球體與剛性平面之吸引接觸分析
計畫主持人: 吳俊仲
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-182-032- 學門領域: 潤滑與磨耗
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
