行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫年度報告 
應用於無線感測網路之超低耗能無線微感測模組的設計與製作- 
子計畫三：智慧型微感測元件之研究(I) 
“The Study of Smart Micro-Sensor Devices” 
計畫編號：NSC95-2221-E-009-331 
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主 持 人：邱俊誠 
參與人員：謝禮忠、侯冠州 
               
一、中文摘要 
本 計 畫 提 出 一 個 以 0.35μm 2P4M 
CMOS-MEMS 製程製作之可調頻率微震盪
器，其使用靜電的方式進行驅動，可應用於感
測多種物理參數。結構中利用了 CMOS 製程
常見之殘餘應力的結構翹曲效應，使得結構可
以往出平面的方向產生翹曲，進而增加微震盪
器的震盪空間，並利用多組電極的驅動方式來
達到調整共振頻率之功能。經由量測得到此微
震盪器的共振頻率為 18.6 kHz，最大之頻率調
整範圍為 28.5%。 
關鍵詞：震盪器、靜電、梳狀致動器、頻率調
整、CMOS-MEMS 製程。 
Abstract 
In this project, a prestress vertical comb 
drive resonator with frequency tuning capability 
is developed. The resonator consists of three sets 
of comb fingers which act as driving electrodes. 
The comb fingers are fabricated along with the 
composite beam. One end of the composite beam 
is clamped to the anchor, whereas the other end 
is elevated vertically by the residual stress. The 
actuation occurs when the electrostatic force, 
induced by the fringe effect, pulls the composite 
beam downward to the substrate. By applying 
driving voltage in different electrodes, the 
resonator exhibits different frequency response. 
The device is fabricated through a standard 
0.35μm 2P4M CMOS-MEMS process. 
Preliminary measurement results indicated that 
the initial resonant frequency of the device is 
18.6 kHz, and the maximum frequency tuning 
range up to 28.5% is obtained.  
Keywords : resonator; electrostatic; comb-drive; 
frequency tuning; CMOS-MEMS process. 
 
二、計畫緣由與目的 
Micro-resonators with electrostatic 
actuation have been used in various 
micro-systems, such as resonant accelerometer 
[1,2], microelectromechanical filters [3], and 
chemical sensors [4]. The main benefit of the 
electrostatic excitation is its characteristic in low 
power consumption. Recently, many 
electrostatic actuation methods have been 
developed, such as the parallel plate and comb 
drive structures. Electrostatic comb actuators are 
developed to avoid pull-in phenomenon [5] 
which occurs in a vertical resonator with parallel 
plate electrostatic actuator. The comb-drive 
structure also has an advantage over parallel 
plates, in that the electrostatic force is 
independent of the displacement of the actuator. 
In most resonators, resonant frequency is an 
important parameter in measurements and 
applications. However, it is common that the 
AIE
L
f
N
i
ii
n
n ρπ
λ ∑= =12
2
2
            (2) 
where N is the number of layers in the composite 
beam, Ei and Ii are the Young’s modulus and the 
moment of inertia of each layer, and ρ  is the 
average specific mass density of the composite 
beam, which is given by  
∑
∑=
=
=
N
i
i
N
i
ii
t
t
1
1
ρρ                (3) 
where ρ and t are the density and thickness of 
each layer, respectively. 
The moment of inertia of each layer is 
defined by [14] 
2
3
12 ii
i
i dbt
btI +=              (4) 
where b is the width of composite beam, ti is the 
thickness of each layer, and di is the distance 
between the centroid of composite beam and the 
neutral axis of each layer. 
 
3.2.2 FEM Simulation 
To understand the resonant characteristics 
of the resonator, a FEM simulator, IntelliSuite, is 
used to calculate the resonant frequency and the 
corresponding mode shape. The resonator 
consist of a 330×20 μm2 composite beam that is 
fixed to an anchor structure with 23 movable 
comb fingers orthogonally mounted on the 
composite beam, and 24 fixed comb fingers are 
mounted on the silicon substrate. The dimension 
of the comb finger is 80×3 μm2, and the overlap 
length is 70μm. A 60×60 μm2 plate at the free 
end of the composite beam is used to be a mirror 
for optical measurement. Therefore, the total 
resonator length is 390μm. Note that in the 
present FEM simulations, we solely require 
movable comb and composite beam to calculate 
the resonant frequencies. The simulation result 
indicates that the fundamental resonance 
frequency is 19.7 kHz. In addition, theoretical 
resonant frequency of the resonator is calculated 
at 17 kHz by using Eq. (2). 
 
3.3 Fabrication 
The proposed resonator device was 
fabricated through TSMC (Taiwan 
Semiconductor Manufacturing Company) 
standard 0.35μm 2P4M (double polysilicon 
quadruple metal) CMOS process and 
post-CMOS micromachining process, which 
provided by National Chip Implementation 
Center (CIC) [15]. The CMOS process consists 
of two polysilicon layers, four metal layers, three 
via layers, and several dielectric layers. All 
metal layers are made of aluminum and the 
contact/via holes are filled with tungsten plugs. 
The dielectric layers are silicon dioxide and the 
passivation layer includes silicon dioxide and 
silicon nitride. The etched holes are filled with 
silicon dioxide. The field oxide (FOX) layer is 
silicon dioxide. In order to fabricate a flat plane 
surface, Chemical Mechanical Polishing (CMP) 
is employed after each deposition layer was 
completed. 
After the CMOS process, a post-CMOS 
micromachining process which includes a 
2-steps dry etching is used to release the 
suspended structures of MEMS devices. Fig. 3(a) 
illustrates the cross-section of the MEMS 
components through the TSMC 0.35μm 2P4M 
CMOS process. Before the dry etching steps, a 
thick PR layer is coated on the chip and 
patterned as illustrated in Fig. 3(b). This PR 
mask is utilized to protect the bonding pads, 
electronic circuit and the unneeded etched 
regions of the MEMS components during dry 
etching processes. After the PR mask is 
completed, an anisotropic reactive-ion etching 
(RIE) with CHF3/O2 plasma is used to define the 
sidewalls of the device structure and etch the 
silicon dioxide in theetching holes, respectively. 
Fig. 3(c) schematically shows the cross-section 
view of MEMS device after the anisotropic RIE 
process. Then, an isotropic RIE with SF6/O2 is 
applied to etch the silicon substrate and release 
the suspended structures of the MEMS 
component. Finally, the PR mask is removed and 
complete the post-CMOS micromachining 
process, as shown in Fig. 3(d). Fig. 4 displays 
the fabricated resonator device produced by the 
CMOS process and the post-CMOS 
micromachining. There are three sets of fixed 
electrodes of the resonator. It is bent by the 
112–117, 1998. 
9. T. Remtema and L. Lin, “Active frequency tuning for 
micro resonators by localized thermal stressing 
effects,” Sensors and Actuators A, vol. 91, pp. 
326–332, 2001. 
10. J. C. Chiou, Y. J. Lin and L. J. Shieh, “Out-of-plane 
CMOS-MEMS resonator with electrostatic driving 
and piezoresistive sensing,” in Proc. 6th IEEE 
Conference on Nanotechnology, 2006, p. 929. 
11. J. C. Chiou and Y. J. Lin, “A novel large 
displacement electrostatic actuator: pre-stress 
comb-drive actuator,” J. Micromech. Microeng., vol. 
15, pp. 1641–1648, 2005. 
12. R. T. Chen, H. Nguyen and M. C. Wu, “A low 
voltage micromachined optical switch by 
stress-induced bending,” in Proc. of IEEE MEMS '99, 
1999, p. 424. 
13. R. D. Blevins, Formulas for natural frequency and 
mode shape, Florida, U. S. : Krieger, 1984. 
14. J. M. Gere and S. P. Timoshenko, Mechanics of 
materials, 3rd ed., Boston, U. S. : PWS, 1990. 
15. C. L. Dai, F. Y. Xiao, Y. Z. Juang and C. F. Chiu, 
“An approach to fabricating microstructures that 
incorporate circuits using a post-CMOS process,” J. 
Micromech. Microeng., vol. 15, pp. 98–103, 2005. 
 
 
Fig. 1 The resonator at different driving states: (a) Initial 
state. (b) Bias voltage state. (c) Critical bias voltage state. 
 
Fig. 2 The architecture of proposed multiple electrostatic 
electrodes resonator. 
 
 
Fig. 3 Post-CMOS micromachining steps: (a) 
Cross-section view of MEMS devices after completing 
TSMC 0.35μm 2P4M fabrication process. (b) Patterning a 
PR mask to protect unneeded etched regions. (c) 
Performing anisotropic RIE to etch silicon dioxide. (d) 
Cross-section view of the device after completing the 
post-CMOS micromachining steps. 
