中文摘要 
本研究的目的，探討成長中兒童使用上顎前方牽引配合頦帽後方牽引對於顎顏面部的治療
效應。藉由側面測顱X光片，利用普氏疊合分析與薄板仿樣分析的有效幾何形態測量法，評
估40位骨性三級異常咬合兒童，顱顏面與顎顏面的形態變化，與未治療的骨性三級異常咬
合的對照組比較。治療後的上、下顎有很顯著的改變，主要的形變在於上顎部向前進而上
腭平面沒有明顯的旋轉，下顎髁突生長方向向前而頦部向前受限。對於前牙錯咬的改正，
牙齒齒槽部分提供相當多的成份。至於顱底與下顎部的治療效應，值得進一步詳細探討。 
 
關鍵詞：上顎前方牽引，頦帽，顎顏面部，幾何形態測量，薄板仿樣分析 
Abstract 
The aim of this study was to investigate the treatment effects on the maxillofacial complex by 
maxillary protraction combined with chin cup therapy among growing children. An effective 
geometric morphometric assessment of cephalometric radiographs, using Procrustes analysis and 
thin-plate spline analysis, was applied to evaluate shape change in the craniofacial and midfacial 
configurations of a treated sample of 40 children with skeletal Class III malocclusion. This was 
compared with matched untreated skeletal Class III controls. Marked treatment induced change 
involved the maxilla and the mandible. Major deformation consisted of forward advancement of 
the maxillary complex with negligible rotation of the palatal plane and a forward direction of 
growth of the mandibular condyle associated with a restriction in sagittal advancement of the chin. 
Considerable dentoalveolar components contributed to the correction of anterior crossbite. 
Further detailed study of skeletofacial remodelling in response to maxillary protraction in other 
skeletal components, including the cranial base and the mandibular complex that contribute to 
Class III skeletal discrepancies, is warranted. 
 
Key words: maxillary protraction, chin cup appliance, maxillofacial complex, geometric 
morphometrics, thin-plate spline analysis 
 
References 
1. Baccetti T, McGill JS, Franchi L, McNamara JA Jr, Tollaro I. Skeletal effects of early 
treatment of Class III malocclusion with maxillary expansion and face-mask therapy. Am J 
Orthod Dentofac Orthop 1998;113:333–343. 
2. Boostein FL. Principal warps: thin-plate splines and the decomposition of deformations. IEEE 
Trans Pattern Anal Mach Intell 1989;11:567–585. 
3. Bookstein FL. Morphometric tools for landmark data. London: Cambridge University Press; 
1991. 
4. Canut JA, Dalmases F, Gandia JL, Salvador R. Effects of maxillary protraction  
determined by laser metrology. Eur J Orthod 1990;12:340–345. 
5. Chang HP, Lin HC, Liu PH, Chang CH. Midfacial and mandibular morphometry of children 
with Class II and Class III malocclusions.  
J Oral Rehabil 2005;32:642–647. 
6. Chang JC. Morphometric analysis of treatment effects of face mask therapy on skeletal Class 
