計畫成果自評 
日期：95年6月15日 
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱：以繞線擁擠度最佳化為導向之平面規劃與模組形狀變化
計畫主持人： 謝財明  教授     
計畫編號：NSC 94-2215-E-033-004   學門領域：微電子工程
技術/創作名稱 以繞線擁擠度最佳化為導向之平面規劃與模組形狀變化 
發明人/創作人 謝財明 教授 
研究成果總評 
 
 
本計畫提出兩階段方法同時最佳化晶片面積、繞線總
長度和繞線擁擠度。該演算法首先使用Sequential-Pair表示
法配合模擬退火法得到一組最佳化平面規劃。在此平面規
劃解中任兩個相鄰彈性模組被分成相連之矩型集合，以增
加彈性模組間相鄰邊長。因為較長相鄰邊可供更多腳位空
間讓較多連線通過，減少迂迴的繞線以降低連線總長度和
繞線擁擠度。然後使用一個非線性規劃方法決定兩兩彈性
模組的形狀，更近一步降低繞線擁擠度嚴重的局部區域。
實驗結果證明，該演算法可以有效的降低繞線擁擠度和總
連線長度。 
 
學術期刊的貢獻
 
本研究內容提早在平面規劃階段同時處理面積、連線
總長度和繞線擁擠度，於平面規劃初期就獲得一個多目標
的初始解，然後降低擁擠度高的區域，採用非線性規劃來
將兩兩彈性模組轉成非矩形模組形狀，來改善傳統平面規
劃器只能處理矩形模組的缺點。總而言之，本研究內容按
照原計劃來實現，深具學術及應用價值，因此獲發表於
MWSCAS 2005。 
 
推廣及運用的價值
隨著製程技術進入奈米時代，模組擺放位置將對晶片面積、連線
長度和繞線的擁擠度產生深遠的影響，因而本計畫提出一個新的演
算法來針對晶片面積、繞線總長度和繞線擁擠度等三個因素最小
化，在兼顧晶片面積和連線總長度下，達到最佳繞線擁擠度。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位研發成
果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 bj
bi
   bj
bi 
ˆ ˆ( , )j jx y
( , )i ix y
ˆ ˆ( , )j jx y
( , )i ix y
wire-length and consume the routing resource of the neighborhood 
regions, (i.e. make the neighborhood regions more congested) [1]. 
Our main idea is to divide the adjacent soft modules into a set of 
connected sub-rectangles to enlarge the common boundary. In 
Figure 1(b), the length of common boundary enlarges to twenty-one 
(unit length). The routing capacity becomes 7(=21/3) and there is 
no detour route. It is obviously that the local congestion and total 
wire-length will decrease without the penalty of area.  
By observation of Figure 1, we find that different topological 
relationships among modules make different congestion. How to 
determine the shaping between soft modules with the minimum 
congestion? It motivates us to apply the modular shaping for the 
boundary between soft modules before pin-assignment stage. It is 
deserved to mention that the method will reduce the congestion and 
total wire-length without the penalty of area.  
III. A CONGESTION MODLE  
In subsection A, we first analyze the congestion distribution 
according to [5] during the floorplanning stage. Then the congestion 
formula is shown in subsection B. Moreover, time complexity and 
problem definition are presented in subsection C and D, 
respectively.  
A.   Analyze the Congestion Distribution  
In this subsection, we analyze the congestion distribution and 
demonstrate the accuracy in Part I of Experiments. Due to the 
limitation of paper space, the largest benchmark, ami49, is shown. 
For ami49, we first assign randomly 1000 two-pin nets over a chip 
size of 500×500µm2. Then we generate randomly 30 floorplan for 
ami49 and add up the total congestion of 30 floorplan solutions. 
After analyzing the data, we make two important conclusions at the 
floorplanning stage. One is that congestion mostly appears near the 
center of bounding box spanning by two connected modules. The 
other is the one-dimension (x-direction) region form W/5 to 4×W/5 
has over average routing demand, where W is the width of the 
bounding box spanning two connected modules in Figure 2.  In 
similar way, we derive the wire distribution of y-direction.  
 
  
 
  
Figure 2. The congestion distribution on x direction of ami49.     
B.   Derive the Congestion of a Floorplan 
In order to estimate the congestion of a floorplan, we propose a 
congestion model with IR-grid instead of fixed-size grid. A region 
which a set of nets between connected modules have probabilities 
to pass through is called routing region. Assume that each net go 
outside the bounding box if there is no enough routing resource. 
According to the analysis in subsection A, the estimated wire 
congestion region is located near the center of routing region. 
Therefore, the estimated wire congestion region is given as follows:  
For a soft module bi (bj) in Figure 3(a), it has bottom-left corner 
(xi, yi) ((xi, yi)) and top-right corner ˆ ˆ( , )i ix y ( ˆ ˆ( , )j jx y ). Besides, 
there are nij two-pin nets between two connected modules, bi and bj. 
The estimated wire congestion region, called rij, is the rectangle that 
its bottom-left and top-right coordinates are 
ˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ(max( , ) ,max( , ) )i j x i j yx x y yδ δ− − and (min( , ) ,min( , ) )i j x i j yx x y yδ δ+ +  
respectively, where ˆ ˆ(max( , ) min( , )) /x i j i jx x x x uδ = −  and 
ˆ ˆ(max( , ) min( , )) /y i j i jy y y y vδ = −  that u and v are user specified 
parameters.  In our implementation, we take the routing region 
spanning by x-direction range from 1/5W to 4/5W and y-direction 
range form 1/5H to 4/5H as the estimated wire congestion region, 
where W and H are the width and height of bounding box spanning 
by two connected modules of Figure 3(b), respectively. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                    
 
             (a)                               (b)                          
Figure 3.  (a) Routing region. (b) the estimated wire congestion region.  
To estimate the congestion for the area of rij, we define the 
congestion cost, Cij, based on the analysis of supply and demand:                 
 
     if 0 ;
                        (1)   
0               otherwise;
ij ij
ij ij
ijij
n p
n p
AC
−⎧ − >⎪= ⎨⎪⎩
 
where Aij is the area of rij, nij is the numbers of two-pin nets 
between two connected modules bi and bj, and pij is the numbers of 
common pins along the common boundary. 
In order to estimate precisely the congestion of a floorplan, we 
must concern the overlapping of estimated wire congestion regions. 
To simplify the complexity, only overlapping of two estimated wire 
congestion region is considered, shown in Figure 4. The congestion 
cost of the overlapping of the two estimated wire congestion region, 
named rij and rst, is defined as follows: 
, ,
,                         (2)
ij st ij st
ij st ij st
ij st
O O
K C C
A A
= × + ×  
where Oij,st is the overlapping of rij  and rst. Aij (Ast) represents area of 
rij (rst) and Cij (Cst) denotes the estimated wire congestion of rij (rst).  
 
 
Figure 4 .The overlapping of estimated wire congestion regions. 
Finally, the congestion of a floorplan is given by: 
,, , ,
1 1
                     (3)
n n
ij ij sti j s t
i j i
CGT C K
= = +
= +∑ ∑ ∑  
where n is the numbers of soft modules. 
C. Time Complexity 
From formula (3), we discover that two terms affect total 
congestion of a floorplan. In the first term, it takes n (n-1)/2 times 
to compute the congestion between two connected soft modules and 
the time complexity is O(n2). In the second term, we find 
experimentally that only the top n congestion costs are considered 
as significant factors. Its complexity is also O(n2). In other words, 
the complexity of our algorithm is O(n2). 
Routing region   Estimated wire congestion region 
       50       100       150       200       250       300       350      400        450     500  
                                                             X position of a chip 
Routing    
Demand 
 
 
 
250 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
200 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
150 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
50 
 
 
 
 
0 
