2workload in deriving the asymptotic bound. The authors in [2] formulate a multi-commodity
flow problem augmented with constraints as a linear programming to compute the optimal
throughput the network can support. Their formulation can handle any given network
topology and workload. They show that the problem of finding the optimal throughput is
NP-hard, and present approaches for computing upper and lower bounds on the optimal
throughput. The authors in [3][4] both propose a network model that captures the key
practical aspects of wireless networks and they characterize their optimal throughput in a
multi-radio multi-channel wireless network.
While some of these studies have been working on a similar problem to that in this
project, they have focused on a homogeneous radio system in their network models, instead
of the 802.11a/b/g multi-mode system that has become increasingly popular in the
deployment of wireless mesh networks. The focus of this project is to investigate a unified
analytic framework for wireless mesh networks with 802.11 a/b/g multi-mode radios.
3. NETWORK MODEL
The wireless mesh network considered consists of N mesh nodes with given locations.
The network is modeled as a directed graph G= (V, E), where V denotes the set of all mesh
nodes and E denotes the set of all directed links. The following describes how the node, link,
and wireless interference are modeled.
Table I: Categories of multi-mode radio
3.1 Node Model
There are three popular variants of the IEEE 802.11 standards, i.e., 802.11a, 802.11b, and
802.11g, available today. Different vendors have provided wireless equipments and devices
based on those standards. Table I categorizes 802.11 access points based on the type of radios
equipped. In the proposed node model, these three modes, 802.11a/b/g, are denoted by the set
F = {0, 1, 2}. F(u) is used to denote the mode supported by access point u. Another
parameter Nu is used to denote the set of 3 different modes assigned to each radio at access
point u. For example, if an access point has two separate radios, one supports 802.11a and the
other supports 802.11b/g, it can be modeled as
43.3 Interference Model
The interference model considered reflects the DATA-ACK handshake used in existing
IEEE 802.11 products, where a successful transmission requires both the sender and the
receiver to be free of interference. A fixed interference range RI = rRTb is assumed, where r
typically ranges from 2 to 3. Although the same distance can support several data rates based
on their modulation schemes, their interference range will not be changed. Since the
transmission range is dependent on the data rate and the signal strength received at the
receiver, transmission is successful if and only if the signal-to-noise ratio is larger than the
receiver's threshold. The proposed interference model assumes that each node uses the same
power for packet transmissions, and two different links can transmit on a common channel
simultaneously if both the sender and the receiver of the other link are at least RI apart from
each other. For example, assume that nodes u, v, x, y are separated such that duv≦ RT and dxy
≦ RT. Link luv and link lxy can be active at the same time if and only if dux≧ RI, duy≧ RI, dvx
≧ RI, dvy≧ RI.
Note that in presence of heterogeneous radios, the assumption that any two different
channels in M are orthogonal may not be valid, since IEEE 802.11g uses the same channels
as 802.11b, and there will be interference between IEEE 802.11b and 802.11g radios. The
phenomenon is modeled as follows. Assume that luv and dxy are two distinct links with duv≦
RT and dxy≦ RT such that luv operates on channel 0 and lxy operates on channel 3. If any one
of dux, duy, dvx and dvy is less than RI, then these two links interfere with each other. The same
is true for pairs (l1uv, l4xy) and (l2uv, l5xy), where lkuv denotes link luv over channel k. The set
IFSkuv is used to denote the set of links interfering with link lkuv (IFSkuv includes lkuv). Table II
lists the notation used in the proposed network model.
4. LINEAR PROGRAMMING (LP) FORMULATION
The problem of characterizing the network capacity of wireless mesh networks with
802.11 a/b/g multi-mode radios is modeled as a linear programming (LP) problem. Briefly,
|A(luv)| virtual links on link luv are created, where A(luv) = Mu Mv denotes the number of
channels that can be used on link luv. The capacity of each link on channel k is capkuv.
Capacity capkuv and capacity caphuv are the same if k and h belong to the same set. It is
assumed that there are multiple source-destination pairs in the network. Assume that each
source-destination pair has a connection ID, and a flow rate f kuv ,q denotes the amount of flow
over link luv on channel k with connection ID q. A virtual super sink t to which every
destination node has a directed link is then created. Node t allows the source node to select
the optimal gateways without any assignment. It is assumed that the bandwidth between each
destination node and the virtual sink t is infinite (bottleneck is the wireless links). Finally, let
Ex(u) denote the set of outgoing links from node u and En(u) denote the set of entering links
to node u. Then E(u) = Ex(u)En(u) denotes the set of neighbor links of node u.
6The linear program formulation for maximizing the network throughput subject to
interference constraint, radio constraint and flow conservation is shown in Figure 2.
4.2 Lower Bound of Network Capacity
The formulation of the lower bound differs from that of the upper bound in the
interference constraint as presented in the following.
Interference Constraint: Recall that IFSkuv denotes the set of links interfering with link
lkuv (IFSkuv includes lkuv). Hence it is possible that only one link in the set IFSkuv is active at
one time for ensuring that links share the same period of time without any interference.
However, this case corresponds to the worst-case scenario. For example, assume that links l1
and l2 are links that interfere with link l0, but do not interfere with each other. While links l1
and l2 can transmit at the same time, it is not allowed if one link in IFSkuv can transmit. This
leads to the following interference constraint:
By combining this constraint with the radio constraint and flow conservation constraint,
the lower bound of the capacity can be derived as shown in Figure 2.
Figure 2: Upper bound and lower bound of network capacity
5. EVALUATION RESULTS
The proposed LP formulation can be employed in many different scenarios for
characterizing the capacity of wireless mesh networks with respect to different deployment
parameters such as the number of access points, number of radios per access point, and the
8gateway node is varied from node 0 to node 10. Figure 6 shows the impact of gateway
placement on the network capacity. If nodes in the right side of the network topology (refer to
Figure 3) are selected as the gateway (i.e. nodes 7, 8, 9, and 10), the maximum achievable
network throughput is lower compared to others. The reason is because they do not have
many neighbors and their link data rates are low compared to other links. Therefore, when
planning network deployment, the placement of gateways needs to be considered carefully.
The proposed formulation can be used for planning wireless mesh networks with respect to
different important deployment parameters such as node location, gateway placement, and the
number of gateways before the actual deployment.
Figure 4: Impact of number of radios and gateway placement in the NTU mesh topology
6. DISCUSSIONS AND SUMMARY
In summary, this project developed and evaluated the framework for deriving the
theoretic performance bounds of the network capacity in wireless mesh networks with
multi-radio, multi-mode, multi-channel, and multi-rate 802.11a/b/g access points. The
proposed framework considers practical constraints in existing 802.11a/b/g access points, and
has been employed in different network scenarios including a real-life wireless mesh network
for performance evaluation. Unlike related work that focuses only on heuristic approaches,
the proposed framework can shed insights into fundamental network planning issues such as:
how many access points should be deployed to meet the minimum service requirement,
where should these access points be deployed, how many radios should they be equipped
with, and how many and where should the gateway nodes be placed? The outcome of this
project has paved the way toward designing better, close-to-optimal network protocols for
target wireless mesh networks that this proposal intends to unfold.
二、參考文獻：
出席國際學術會議心得報告
計畫編號 NSC 94-2213-E-002-062-
計畫名稱 以 IEEE 802.11為基礎之無線網狀網路架構與通信協定研究
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
國立台灣大學電信所 謝宏昀助理教授
會議時間地點 August 30, 2005–September 1, 2005 in Cologne, Germany
會議名稱 ACM International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking(MobiCom)
發表論文題目 N/A
一、參加會議經過
ACM MobiCom is one of the most important and prestigious conference in wireless
networking. Many significant research breakthroughs in wireless networking have been
published in this conference. This year, MobiCom accepts only 23 papers with an acceptance
rate of 10.3%, but as usual it still attracts a lot of attendees from academia and industry all over
the world.
The MobiCom main conference (excluding tutorials and workshops) schedules the technical
program in three days. The first day includes a keynote speech from Dr. Ralf Guido Herrtwich
on “Communicating Vehicles - Communicating Roadways: New Approaches to Driver
Information and Road Safety”and three paper sessions on “Best Student Paper Candidates,”
“Multi-Radio, Multi-Channel Communication,”and “Routing Protocols”respectively. This
year, the MobiCom Best Student Paper Award goes to “Architecture and Evaluation of an 
Unplanned 802.11b Mesh Network” by John Bicket, Daniel Aguayo, Sanjit Biswas, and
Robert Morris at MIT. The second day includes a keynote speech from Dr. Jeffrey Jaffe on
“Secure, Natural Communications,”two paper sessions on “Challenge Papers”and “802.11
Protocols and Usage,”a demo and poster session, and a student research competition session.
Several interesting demonstrations include: “Visualizing Wireless ns-2 Traces in 3D”by B.
Scheuermann et al at University of Mannheim, “MultiMesh: Multi-Channel Multi-Interface
Wireless Mesh Testbed”by C. Chereddi et al at University of Illionois at Urbana-Champaign,
“Ambient Networks in Practice - Instant Media Services for Users on the Move”by M.
Kampmann et al at Ericsson, and“Probabilistic Routing in Intermittently Connected Networks
using Lego MindStorm Robots”by C. Baraer et al at Lulea University of Technology. The last
day of the conference includes a panel session on “Wearable Computing - Empowering the
Mobile Worker?”and three paper sessions on “Analytical Models of Wireless Networks,”
“Bazaars, Services, and Systems,”and“Sensor Networks”respectively.
