2the associated effective stiffness. The
applicability of the presented approach is to
be extended to determine the effective
stiffness associated with degradation of
structural integrity due to presence of
multiple cracks.
Keywords: multi-cracked solids, M-integral,
effective stiffness, scalar energy
parameter, material and structural
characteristics
二、INTRODUCTION
The overall mechanical behavior of
engineering structures can be substantially
affected by irreversible evolution of multiple
distributed cracks. An important concern
for such multi-cracked problems is on
prediction of the associated effective stiffness
in the cracked solids. Studies related to this
issue have been extensively reported in the
past decades. Most of them are concerned
with degradation of material integrity (i.e.
material characteristic), especially in the field
of micromechanics (as reviewed by, e.g.
Kachanov (1992)).
In order to effectively characterize the
actual mechanical behavior of the
multi-cracked media, mutual interaction of
the cracks needs to be explicitly and
accurately accounted. To this end, a variety
of approaches in the context of material
characteristic have been introduced. On one
hand, for 'regular' distribution of cracks, the
mechanical properties of the cracked solids
can be modeled by a periodic medium which
consists of a collection of unit cells. Based
on this periodic feature, the material moduli
of the overall cracked medium are then
represented by those of the unit cell. With
this concept, the fracture behavior due to
interaction of the cracks contained in a unit
cell and, subsequently, in the periodic
medium can thus be properly simulated
either analytically or numerically (e.g.
Nemat-Nasser (1993), Huang et al. (1996),
Kushch and Sangani (2000), etc.). On the
other hand, for problems containing
irregularly or randomly distributed cracks,
the mutual interaction of the crack system
becomes too complicated to be simulated
analytically. Owing to this difficulty, a
number of approximate numerical schemes
have therefore been proposed (as reviewed
by, e.g., Chen (1995), and Petrova et al.
(2000)). In most of these schemes, solution
to the problem associated with interaction of
cracks was formulated in terms of a set of
integral equations. Such formulation leads
to a system of linear algebraic equations,
which may cost significant computational
effort when the number of cracks becomes
relatively large. Therefore, development of
alternative and efficient methods for
characterizing the interaction of multiple
cracks, especially in the case of high
concentration of cracks, is of considerable
importance.
The concept by using energy parameters
in fracture analysis is of practical interest,
especially in the condition when the stress
state in the near-tip region becomes too
complicated to be described. A well-known
parameter, the J-integral (Budiansky and
Rice (1973)), has been widely used for
evaluation of the energy release rate
corresponding to extending a single crack tip
in quasi-brittle materials. Nevertheless, it
was not until very recently has the M-integral,
another energy conservation contour integral
derived from Noether's theorem, been
applied in problems containing multiple
cracks. A series of studies were presented
by using the M-integral to characterize the
material damage level due to microcracking
in uniformly-loaded elastic infinite media
(Wang and Chen (2002), Tian (2004), etc.).
Also, a fracture parameter Mc is proposed by
the authors (Chang and Chien (2002), Chang
and Peng (2004)) to describe the degradation
of material and structural integrity caused by
irreversible evolution of multiple cracks.
An important feature addressed in these
works is on illustration of the physical
meaning of Mc, which evaluates twice the
surface energy associated with creation of all
cracks in the media. With such a feature, it
was thus suggested that the Mc-integral be
used as an energy parameter that measures
the damage level associated with stiffness
loss in both the multi-cracked materials and
structures.
This research is aimed to present a
simple and efficient method to determine the
4In order to accurately evaluate the
integral, the concept of path-independence is
to be investigated and established in this
proposed research. Here, by considering a
closed contour D=[(
r1
N
 Dr+Dr++Dr–)]–Do
for the N distributed cracks (Figure 3), where
the outer contour Do can be arbitrarily
chosen (except for the requirements to be
inside the body, enclose all the N cracks, and
contain no other singularity in it), the
M-integral can be rewritten as
∂ui
M =∫[Wnkxk–Ti(–––––)xk ] dsDo ∂xk
The above equation shows that the
M-integral is path-independent. This
indicates that the integral has the same value
along any remote contour Do, as long as the
whole set of cracks are enclosed. The
property of path-independence implies that
the integration can be accurately evaluated
by adopting a contour remote from the crack
tips, where complicated singular stress
behavior dominates. Note that, as a
consequence, the Mc-integral is also
path-independent in the same manner. Due
to this property, both M- and Mc-integrals
can then be easily implemented by direct use
of numerical schemes such as finite element
method.
五、PHYSICAL INTERPRETATION
FOR Mc
As to the physical meaning of Mc, by
considering the 2-D elastic body containing
N distributed cracks (Figure 1), we arbitrarily
choose an intermediate state during the
process of crack evolution. At this stage,
the associated energy release rate G, due to a
unit advance at the point Qe along the crack
segment, can be expressed as decrease of the
potential energyas
d
G= ––––––dl
∂ui= lim ∫  [Wnk–Ti(–––––)]dse0 e ∂xk
where l is the crack length, e is the
integration contour enclosing and shrinking
onto Qe, and xk denotes the orientation of the
crack. By introducing a specific weighting
function q and conducting integration
throughout the process of crack evolution,
the physical meaning of M corresponding to
the surface energy can be interpreted.
六、EFFECTIVE STRUCTURAL
STIFFNESS
Consider a finite elastic body containing
a set of arbitrarily distributed cracks. In
order to evaluate the degradation of structural
integrity due to presence of the cracks, let us
consider an external concentrated force F
acting on the body through an arbitrary point
A (Figure 4). Under the application of such
a load, the body is deformed and, particularly,
displaced by d at A. By arbitrarily choosing
an outer contour Do that contains all the
cracks, the Mc-integral can be accurately
evaluated. As a consequence, the decrease
of strain energydue to presence of the set
of cracks in the nonhomogeneously-stressed
body can then be properly related to Mc.
In order to yield an estimation of the
effective structural stiffness by using the
results of the surface energy, an expression
for the effective compliance of the stressed
body needs to be established. To this end,
the concept of 'compliance contribution
tensor' is used for description of the
structural behavior.
For the special condition in the context
of material characteristic that the effective
material moduli are to be determined, a
subregion as the representative area element
(i.e. the RAE) is delimited. As to the
structural characteristic, the whole body is
taken as the RAE in characterizing the
structural fracture behavior. Then, the
relation between the released energy
associated with formation of the cracks and
the result of Mc-integral can be established.
With the developed formulation, the effective
structural stiffness can then be evaluated by
using the results of the Mc-integral.
七、NUMERICAL EXAMPLE
This problem considers an
instrumentation of sewer tunnel Fig. 5 in
plane strain condition. The circular tunnel is
excavated in clay and supported by a 10-cm
thick concrete liner. The tunnel is of
diameter 2 m and located 9 m below ground
6and Hu, K.X. (1996). The numerical calculation of
two-dimensional effective moduli for
microcracked solids. International Journal of
Solids and Structures 33, 1575-1586.
Ju, J.W. and Chen, T.M. (1994). Micromechanics
and effective moduli of elastic composites
containing randomly dispersed ellipsoidal
inhomogeneities. Acta Mechanics 103, 103-121
Kachanov, M. (1992). Effective elastic
properties of cracked solids: critical review of
some basic concepts. Applied Mechanics Review
45, 304-335.
Kushch, V.I. and Sangani, A.S. (2000). Stress
intensity factor and effective stiffness of a solid
containing aligned penny-shaped cracks.
International Journal of Solids and Structures 37,
6555-6570.
Nemat-Nasser, S., Yu, S., and Hori, M. (1993).
Solids with periodically distributed cracks,
International Journal of Solids and Structures 30,
2071-2095.
Petrova, V., Tamuzs, V., and Romalis, N. (2000).
A survey of macro-microcrack interaction
problems, Applied Mechanics Review 53 (5),
1459-1472.
Sevostianov, I. and Kachanov, M. (2002). On
elastic compliances of irregularly shaped cracks.
International Journal of Fracture 114 (3),
245-257.
Shen, L. and Li, J. (2004). A numerical
simulation for effective elastic moduli of plates
with various distributions and sizes of cracks.
International Journal of Solids and Structures 41,
7471-7492.
Tian, W.Y. (2004). Microcracking damage
analysis in piezoelectric bimaterial solids.
International Journal of Fatigue 26 (8), 873-888.
Tsudrov, I. and Novak, J. (2004). Effective
elastic properties of solids with two-dimensional
inclusions of irregular shapes. International
Journal of Solids and Structures 41 6905-6924.
Walpole, L.J. (1969). On the overall elastic
moduli of composite materials, Journal of
Mechanics in Physics and Solids 17, 235-251.
Wang, D.F. and Chen, Y.H. (2002). M-integral
analysis for a two-dimensional metal/ceramic
bimaterial solid with extending subinterface
microcracks. Archives of Applied Mechanics 72,
588-598.
Figure 1
Figure 2
Figure 3
Figure 4
8行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告
※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※
※ 含多裂縫二維材料/結構之有效勁度的計算(第三年) ※
※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※
計畫類別：個別型計畫
計畫編號：NSC 98-2211-E-008-071
執行期間： 98 年 8月 1日至 99 年 7月 31 日
計畫主持人：張瑞宏
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件：
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份
執行單位：國立中央大學土木工程學系
中 華 民 國 九十九 年 七 月 三十一 日
在各議題的講演中，不但對問題有充分的說明，也有效地建議解決的方向，同時
亦保留了與會者相當的思考空間。
此次筆者所發表的論文“含多異質顆粒之超彈性固體的等效應變能密度之
運算(Evaluation of the Effective Strain Energy Density due to Presence of Multiple
Irregularly-shaped Inclusions in Hyperelastic Solids)”（國科會研究計劃
NSC97-2211-E-008-051）屬於“固體與結構力學”學門，論文內容討論含多異質
顆粒之超彈性材料在處於極大的非線性彈性變形下，其等效應變能密度的分析；
研究主題則為就材料整體所對應的積分形式破壞參數以及能量改變現象等進行
討論。本論文被安排在大會的 CS202(iii)場次，同場次與會者包括來自各國的學
術界人士進行多項研究議題的報告，會議氣氛自由融洽。
同時，在為期五天的研討會場中，筆者亦就其他議案之相關論文進行了解，
並探析目前各就職處的研究經驗與情況，期能作為回國後教學與研究的參考。
在本次研討會結束後，筆者亦在雪梨市區參觀遊訪，並亦有機會與當地的居
民進行交談，對於當地的學習環境與民情風氣均有進一步的認識。同時，對於澳
洲目前致力於各不同族群之平等教學與就業情形的績效亦深感認同。此外，本次
會議期間正逢澳洲國會大選之前夕，電視中亦有較多政論性質之節目，令筆者看
到了較為激情的政治論述。
（三）與會心得
本次參加研討會，對目前國際上計算力學相關研究有更進一步的了解，深感
目前國內的硬體設施已相當完備，亦已具有學術發展之條件，若能有效地加以開
發運用，並配合適當的觀念維新，當能有更廣闊的發展空間。此外，筆者對於澳
洲當地的見聞，亦有十分深刻的印象，尤其是澳洲規律務實的精神、學術與工業
界間密切交流合作的現象，實在值得國內學習，深感若能加強國內學界與產界間
的合作，則學術落實、產業升級的目標將能更快達成。
（四）建議事項
1.此次能夠順利參加本研討會，承蒙國科會補助，謹此致謝。
2.如前所述，參加此國際學術盛會，除了研究領域上的觀摩溝通、與國際友
人的相互交流之外，對於他國的見聞、以及反躬自我的省思，亦為相當重要的一
環。此行乃筆者第一次造訪南半球，對於澳洲多元種族的發展有深刻之感觸。各
族裔之澳洲日人務實守紀的情景，在在表露在其生活與行動之中，國人若言國家
的整體建設，實應從本身敬業的態度做起，方為建設之根本。就近年來，國內發
展的情況而言，此目標應是極為樂觀可行的。
（五）攜回資料名稱與內容
1.第九屆世界計算力學會議摘要合集，光碟二片。
2.第九屆世界計算力學會議及第四屆亞太區計算力學會議（Proceedings of
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
