 1
(一) 計畫中文摘要： 
 本 實 驗 室 利 用 半 結 晶 性 (semi-crystalline) 聚 苯 乙 烯 - 聚 左 旋 乳 酸
(poly(styrene)-b-poly(L-lactide) (PS-PLLA)) 之掌性嵌段共聚物 (chiral block copolymers 
(BCPs*))來研究結晶行為與微觀相分離相互競爭下之自組裝結構，藉由改變不溶劑的滴加
速度(non-solvent addition rate)的動力學控制方法來控制嵌段共聚物之自組裝行為。以聚苯乙
烯為主相的掌性嵌段共聚物在慢速自組裝過程(即慢速滴加速度)中可以形成菱形層狀單晶
(single-crystal lozenge lamellae)，而在快速自組裝過程(即快速滴加速度)中則會形成非晶態之
螺旋緞帶超結構(amorphous helical ribbon superstructures)。此外，利用非掌性之聚苯以烯-
聚消旋乳酸(poly(styrene)-b-poly(D,L-lactide) (PS-PLA))可以得到非晶態之平板緞帶超結構
(amorphous flat ribbon superstructures)，表示掌性效應在形成螺旋緞帶超結構中扮演相當重
要的角色。相對地，以聚左旋乳酸為主相的掌性嵌段共聚物之自組裝，則無論不溶劑之滴
加速率為何，都會被聚左旋乳酸的結晶行為所主導，代表聚左旋乳酸之結晶速度與掌性嵌
段共聚物中聚苯以烯的鏈長短有關。因此，從 PS-PLLA 掌性嵌段共聚物之自組裝能形成螺
旋結構反映掌性效應在微觀相分離上的衝擊，但卻不會被結晶行為所克服。 
 
關 鍵 字 ： Block Copolymer, Chiral, Helical Superstructure, Kinetically, Self-assembly, 
Supersaturation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3
(三) 前言： 
 In recent decades, the self-assembly of block copolymers (BCPs) has been widely studied 
because of their ability to self-assemble into one-, two-, or three-dimensional periodic 
nanostructures according to composition (i.e., volume fraction), which provides promising 
features in the field of nanotechnologies. Various phases in bulk such as sphere (S), cylinder (C), 
gyroid (G), and lamellar (L) phases can be obtained through self-assembly because spatial 
segregation of thermodynamically incompatible blocks. In addition to the formation of numerous 
BCP nanostructures in bulk, the self-assembly of BCPs can also be carried out in solution so as to 
create BCP aggregates with various morphologies. Eisenberg and co-workers synthesized a series 
of asymmetric poly(styrene)-b-poly(acrylic acid) amphiphilic BCPs and investigated their 
self-assembly in solution. The BCPs favor a disordered state in a favorable solvent for both 
blocks. Subsequently, a selective solvent (i.e., water) was added to the BCP solution. 
Self-assembly takes place at some critical water content. Various equilibrium superstructures in 
solution such as spheres, rods, lamellae, vesicles, large compound micelles (LCM) and large 
compound vesicles (LCV) were obtained. These thermodynamic equilibrium superstructures in 
solution can be controlled by changing the BCP composition, the initial concentration of BCP 
solution, the amount of non-solvent or selective solvent present in the solvent mixture, the nature 
of the solvent and temperature. Lodge and co-workers found structural transitions from spheres to 
rods to vesicles in poly(styrene)-b-poly(dimethylsiloxane) BCP solution by changing the sole 
solvent selectivity.  Also, as the temperature was increased, the selectivity of the solvent 
decreased so that reverse structural transitions from vesicle to rod to sphere could be observed. 
The above results indicate that the observed structural transitions depend upon the 
thermodynamic interaction between solvent and the blocks in the BCPs. 
Among self-assembled architectures, the helical morphology is probably the most 
fascinating one, and has been extensively studied because of its specific function. The formation 
of helical morphologies was shown to have various origins. The chirality of the compounds is of 
course the main origin. Nolte and co-workers observed that helical superstructures could be 
obtained from the self-assembly of BCPs in the buffer solution of amphiphilic BCPs with a 
charged chiral block, such as poly(styrene)-b-poly(isocyano-L-alanine-L-alanine) and 
poly(styrene)-b-poly(isocyano-L-alanine-L-histidine) BCPs. Recently, a helical phase (H* phase) 
with hexagonally packed PLLA helices in a PS matrix was obtained in bulk by self-assembling 
poly(styrene)-b-poly(L-lactide) (PS-PLLA) with a PLLA volume fraction of 0.34 (i.e., 
fPLLAv=0.34). Also, a hexagonally packed core-shell cylinder phase with helical sense (CS* phase) 
could be found in PS-PLLA with fPLLAv=0.65. The PS microdomains are the shells and the PLLA 
microdomains are the matrix and cores. The formation of these novel phases: H* and CS* is 
attributed to the chiral effect on the self-assembly of BCPs so that this PS-PLLA BCP system was 
named chiral BCP (BCP*). 
The PLLA component is intrinsically a crystallizable polymer in view of its regular chiral 
configuration. Therefore, various interesting crystalline PS-PLLA nanostructures could be 
obtained by controlling the crystallization temperature of PLLA (Tc,PLLA) to create different 
conditions (i.e., under soft or hard confinement). The formation of crystalline helices in which 
 5
rate with stirring. After addition of water, the solubility of the BCPs decreased gradually, 
resulting in aggregation. The addition of water was carried out until the solution reached a preset 
supersaturation state (water content ~ 23% (v/v)) in all cases. Turbid solutions were obtained. 
When the deionized water is added dropwise at a slow rate (1.0% (v/v) per minute), the process is 
referred to as “slow self-assembly” (i.e., slow non-solvent addition rate). For the higher rate 
(1.0% (v/v) per second), the process is referred to as “fast self-assembly” (i.e., fast non-solvent 
addition rate). When reaching the 23% v/v concentration, the systems were immediately 
“quenched” by adding a large amount of deionized water to terminate the self-assembly and 
freeze in the resulting morphologies. Subsequently, the aggregates were dropped onto 
carbon-coated copper grids for TEM observation. 
 
Table 1. Molecular characterization of PS-PLLA BCPs* and PS-PLA BCP. 
Sample Mn,PS (g mol-1)1 Mn,PLLA (g mol-1)2 fPLLAv PDI 
PS272-PLLA118 28300 17000 0.33 1.21 
PS55-PLLA95 6000 13900 0.65 1.17 
Sample Mn,PS (g mol-1)1 Mn,PLA (g mol-1)2 fPLAv PDI 
PS355-PLA112 36900 16100 0.27 1.26 
1Obtained from GPC analysis. 2Obtained from 1H NMR measurement. 
 
(六) 結果與討論： 
1. Slow self-assembly of PS-rich PS-PLLA BCP* in solution: 
A selective solvent or even a non-solvent can be introduced into BCP* solution to increase 
immiscibility between polymer and solvent so as to facile aggregation and self-assembly for 
ordering. The selective solvent or non-solvent acts as a precipitant when added to a BCP solution 
in a good solvent. Self-assembly takes place at some critical selective or non-solvent content. As 
shown in Figure 1a, lozenge-shape single crystals with spiral dislocations are formed after 
addition of the non-solvent (water) through slow self-assembly. Figure 1b shows the 
corresponding selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern. It is the [001] zone pattern of the 
orthorhombic lattice of α-form. A significant hk0 reflections of the PLLA unit-cell can be found 
in the ED pattern, which confirms that the ED pattern is a projection along the c-axis. The 
PS-rich PS-PLLA single crystals have their molecular chains (i.e., c-axis) perpendicular to the 
substrate. The angles between growth faces are 60° and 120° (Figure 1a and 1c) indicating that 
the {110} faces are growth planes. It is known that semi-crystalline diblock copolymers, such as 
PS-PLLA and poly(styrene)-b-poly(ethylene oxide) (PS-PEO) diblock copolymers, can grow as 
single crystals in dilute solution under appropriate growth condition. The PS-PLLA single crystal 
is a “sandwich” texture with the PLLA core covered by two PS block layers. The lozenge-shaped 
PS-PLLA single crystals with spiral dislocations (Figure 1a and 1c) are layer-by-layer structures 
(Figure 1d) in which PLLA chains crystallize first, and the PS chains are rejected to allocate on 
the upper and lower surfaces of the PLLA lamellae. Furthermore, the result of the ED pattern 
 7
 
Figure 2 (a) TEM image and (b) corresponding SAED pattern of PS-rich PS-PLLA helical ribbon 
and tubular superstructure from the fast self-assembly. PS blocks are stained with RuO4 to 
enhance mass-thickness contrast under TEM observation. 
 
The coexistence of amorphous helical ribbons and tubular superstructures may result from 
the fact that that the latter tubules (Figure 2a) result from tight scrolling of the helical ribbons. To 
test this hypothesis, the solution from the fast self-assembly was sonicated to disperse the 
superstructures into isolate individual entities. As shown in Figure 3, well-distributed single 
helical ribbons (Figure 3a) and tubules (Figure 3b) are observed after sonication. The tubule in 
Figure 3b is actually the 2D projection of a tightly scrolled helical ribbon. However, the scrolling 
can not be clearly observed under TEM due to contrast-limitation of the 2D TEM projection. The 
same texture was therefore also investigated by tapping-mode SPM. As shown in Figure 4b, the 
central helical ribbon projection image under TEM (Figure 4a) also appears as a helical ribbon in 
tapping-mode SPM phase image (Figure 4b). By contrast, the upper right tube-like projection 
under TEM (marked inside the blue dashed line ellipse in Figure 4a) presents as tightly scrolled 
helix in tapping-mode SPM phase image (also inside the blue dashed line ellipse in  Figure 4b). 
The datas suggest that the tubular texture indeed results from the scrolling of helical ribbons. 
 
Figure 3 TEM images of (a) helical ribbon and (b) tubular superstructure with helical sense from 
the fast self-assembly of PS-rich PS-PLLA BCP* after sonication. PS blocks are stained with 
RuO4 to enhance mass-thickness contrast under TEM observation. 
 
 9
self-assembly processes. Also, the twisting and bending forces resulting from the packing of 
chiral molecules are not operative in the PS-PLA achiral BCP. As a result, flat ribbons instead of 
helical ribbons are formed. This also demonstrates that chirality indeed plays a major role in the 
formation of the helical ribbons during microphase separation. 
 
Figure 5 TEM images of flat ribbon superstructures from the (a) slow and (b) fast self-assembly 
of PS-PLA achiral BCP. 
 
4. Competition between self-assembly processes: crystallization and microphase separation: 
Single-crystal lozenge lamellae and amorphous helical ribbons were obtained via the slow 
and fast self-assembly of PS-rich PS-PLLA BCP* in solution, respectively. Both morphologies 
are the consequence of the competition between crystallization and microphase separation, as 
controlled by the non-solvent addition rate. As illustrated in Figure 6, PS-rich PS-PLLA BCP* 
chains behave as isolated BCP* chains under dilute concentration in a good solvent (THF). Upon 
addition of the non-solvent (water) into the BCP* solution, the isolated BCP* chains aggregate 
because of the increase of local BCP* concentration. Once the critical concentration for ordering 
is reached locally, crystallization or microphase separation takes place. 
For the slow self-assembly, because of slow non-solvent addition rate, local BCP* 
concentration near the aggregates increases slowly, and eventually BCP* in solution would be 
precipitated and the morphology is frozen because of the introduction of a large amount of 
non-solvent. Accordingly, for the slow self-assembly, the self-assembly for ordering may involve 
a long relaxation process before solidification so as to experience a large range of the 
supersaturation (Figure 6a). Consequently, the crystallization of the BCP* may occur because of 
longer resident time at low supersaturation region. It is also noted that crystallization event 
usually overwhelm microphase separation from self-assembly. As a result, crystallization 
dominates the morphological evolution in the slow self-assembly. By contrast, for the fast 
self-assembly, the local BCP* concentration increases drastically before solidification so that 
high supersaturation can be reached in a short time (Figure 6b). The self-assembly only 
experiences short residence time in the low supersaturation region. As a result, time is too short to 
initiate the crystallization event, in particular because the crystallization rate of PLLA block in 
BCP* is significantly reduced by the non-crystallizable PS block (see below for reasons). The 
 11
blocks in the crystallization of semi-crystalline BCP significantly affects the crystallization rate. 
In the present case, the shorter PS chain results in an increase of the crystallization rate of PLLA. 
PLLA crystallization dominates even the fast self-assembly, and only single-crystal lamellae are 
formed. 
 
Figure 7 TEM images from (a) slow and (b) fast self-assembly of PLLA-rich PS-PLLA BCP*. 
PS blocks are stained with RuO4 to enhance contrast under TEM observation. 
 
6. Conclusions: 
The competition between crystallization and microphase separation in the self-assembly of 
semi-crystalline PS-PLLA BCPs* in solution was investigated by varying the non-solvent 
addition rate. Single-crystal lozenge lamellae are obtained from the slow self-assembly  of 
PS-PLLA BCP* with long PS chain (i.e., PS-rich PS-PLLA). Amorphous helical ribbons were 
obtained from the fast self-assembly. When supersaturation is approached slowly, nucleation and 
growth of PS-rich PS-PLLA BCP* single crystal takes place. By contrast, for the fast 
self-assembly, a high local concentration of semi-crystalline PS-rich PS-PLLA BCP* chains (i.e., 
high aggregation rate) is reached. The microphase separation in a short time induces the 
formation of amorphous helical ribbons. Amorphous flat ribbons are formed from the 
self-assembly of PS-PLA achiral BCP regardless of the non-solvent addition rate. Chirality 
indeed plays an important role in the formation of helical ribbons during microphase separation. 
By contrast, the formation of self-assembled morphologies of PS-PLLA BCP* with short PS 
chain (i.e., PLLA-rich PS-PLLA) in solution is dominated by PLLA crystallization regardless of 
the non-solvent addition rate. The formation of helical architectures from the self-assembly of 
PS-PLLA BCP* reflects the impact of chirality from microphase separation but the chiral effect 
may be overwhelmed by crystallization. 
 
(七) 計畫成果自評： 
本計畫之主軸在於研究聚乳酸高分子及其共聚物之結晶行為，從合成聚乳酸單聚物開
始，學會利用 GPC 與 NMR 鑑定化學結構，以及利用 DSC 與 TEM 分析其結晶行為。而掌
性聚乳酸單聚物也能因為分子掌性效應的存在而形成立體錯合物，有效提升結晶速度，提
高結晶熔點溫度，有別於單聚物之結晶行為表現，對於高分子在產業應用上有明顯的幫助。
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/17
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 聚乳酸高分子及其共聚物之結晶行為研究
計畫主持人: 何榮銘
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-007-035-MY3 學門領域: 高分子物理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
