2 
 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
應用差分干涉對比術於透明材質的三維形貌量測方法
Three-dimensional profile metrology for transparent object 
計 畫 編 號：NSC98-2221-E-007-115-MY2 
執 行 期 限：98 年 08 月 01 日至 100 年 9 月 30 日 
主 持 人：林士傑   國立清華大學動力機械系 
計畫參與人員：余昇剛,劉濬嘉,陳偉倫 國立清華大學動力機械系 
一、中文摘要 
由於以 ITO(Indium Tin Oxide)導電玻璃或塑
膠等透明材質製成的各種元件，如
TFT(Thin-Film Transistor)玻璃基板、透明電
極、或是導光板等元件被大量的使用。使透
明材質的使用量迅速增加，且其形狀精度要
求亦高。因此，發展一種可以檢測透明材質
三維形貌技術的重要性不言可喻。 
差分干涉對比顯微術(Differential Interference 
Contrast Microscopy,以下簡稱：DIC 顯微術)
以往用於透明生物樣本的觀察上。本方法可
強化透明材質與周圍環境的相位差別，使觀
察者容易分辨透明物體的形貌。DIC 是一種
概念類似剪切干涉儀的顯微技術，其原理為
利用光線在通過一特殊的分光鏡，將光分為
兩道距離約 0.2~2 微米差距的待測光打到待
測物上，再通過一次分光鏡將兩道光合併，
利用這兩道待測光互相干涉的結果，得到待
測物在空間中的相位差別影像，理論上可以
藉以推得待測物的三維形貌。  
本計劃執行第一年已成功的量測內米等級之
階高厚度變化。而計劃的第二年則在探討以
DIC 顯微術量測透明材質三維形貌時，傾斜
表面對於重建結果的影響。 
關鍵詞：差分干涉對比術,三維形貌,透明結構 
Abstract 
Due to the use of conductive glass, 
ITO(Indium Tin Oxide), plastic and other 
transparent materials as the raw materials for 
components such as the glass subtract of 
TFT(Thin-Film Transistor), transparent 
electrode, or light guide, the geometry and 
profile measurement of these transparent 
component become an important issue. 
Differential Interference Contrast Microscopy 
(DIC) was originally used in the observation of 
transparent organism specimen. Through this 
approach, the phase difference between the 
specimen and background can be enhanced. 
Therefore, it becomes much easier for user to 
identify transparent organism. DIC used a 
special spectroscope to split one light ray into 
two parallel light rays with a distance around 
0.2 to 2 μm. These two light rays are merged 
into one through another spectroscope after 
they passed through the examined sample. 
Theoretically, the profile of the tested object 
can be determined by estimating the difference 
of the phase of these two light rays.   
Keywords: Differential Interference Contrast, 
Surface profile, Transparent structure. 
二、緣由與目的 
近年來隨著顯示科技的高速發展，使得光
4 
    -1 ,, 1 2sin
i
y
f x y
f i j
kvi
k N

           
DF
DF ，為剪切方向在 y
重建出的相位圖；  xC j 、  yC i 分別為每一
行、列的積分常數；h、k 為剪切距離。 
 
    則 result 1與 result 2的每一像素之間的誤
差為： 
         , , ,x x y yerr i j f i j C j f i j C i          
 
    總誤差值可表示為： 
        2_
1 1
, ,
m n
total err x y x y
i j
E f i j f i j C j C i
 
       
 
為了使總誤差值最小，可經由偏微分計算
得到對應的  xC j 、  yC i ，將其帶回式中進
行重建結果的修正，進而準確的還原相位差資
訊。 
 
三、模擬模型與重建方法分析 
將 DIC 成像以及重建過程以軟體模擬，模擬
之實驗模型參數設定如下表 1，模擬所得的微
分相位差影像如圖 2 所示，將此結果輸入演算
法經過 MFPI 重建後的待測物表面形貌如圖
3。分析 MFPI 與常見的線積分重建法(Linear 
Integration, LI)及螺旋相位積分法(Spiral Phase 
Integration, SPI) [5-7]之誤差如圖 4。 
從誤差分布圖可發現 MFPI 的結果誤差分布
較 SPI 平均，不會對待測物的重建相位圖造成
較大的扭曲變形。MFPI 的重建結果，在加入
雜訊 0.1%以上時的誤差量最小，且其趨勢不
易受到加入雜訊多寡的影響。誤差量最大與最
小值之間的範圍也較小。 
 
四、高度量測實驗與結果 
為了驗證 DIC 對於量測透明待測物的性
能，本階段針對 DIC 的硬體架構做研究與探
討，可分為兩大部分：分別為反射式 DIC 與
穿透式 DIC 的實驗平台架設與量測。將待測
物樣本經過反射式 DIC 與穿透式 DIC 的硬體
架構量測，取得兩個剪切方向各四張影像，將
總共的八張影像經過運算，重建出待測物的表
面形貌資訊。詳細的實驗架設、量測步驟及結
果將在下兩節中分別敘述，以下將先講解軟體
演算法的流程。分別量測 88nm 的階高標準片
以及高度差約 95nm 的 TFT substrate，結果分
別如圖 5 及圖 6 所示。 
量測結果證實更換物鏡倍率對解出的標
準階高片高度有些微的影響，推測原因為當物
鏡倍率過小，影像解析度太低，較容易造成對
待測物邊緣微分相位資訊的判斷誤差，故在量
測待測物時，物鏡倍率必須因欲量測的待測物
而做適當的選擇。 
為進一步驗證 DIC 法的可行性，我們利
用 DIC 進行液晶顯示器在液晶層中間保持空
隙所用的田埂型透明結構(Spacer 階高大約是
1100nm) 及一立方體結構(Cubic 階高大約是
6500nm)。  
為了驗證 DIC 實驗的量測結果，我們並
將量測結果與原子力顯微鏡、白光干涉儀、共
焦顯微鏡的量測結果相比對。其中白光干涉儀
是目前解析度最高的光學非接觸式面型三維
形貌量測平台，將其量測結果與我們實驗的量
測結果做比較，並輔以接觸式的原子力顯微鏡
(AFM)量測結果為比較標準。 
圖 7 為利用原子力顯微鏡量測 Spacer 的
結果而另一測試樣本的方體結構因高度差過
大並不適於原子力顯微鏡的量測。 
圖 8 為利用白光干涉儀量測 Spacer 及另
一測試樣本 Cubic 的結果。白光干涉儀的原理
為以 Michelson 光路做干涉，透過控制壓電材
料位移機構做相移式的垂直掃描動作，將擷取
到的一系列影像進行高度重建。雖然本方法精
度很高，縱向解析度可達約奈米等級，但對於
振動非常敏感，且限制為僅可做表面結構的量
測，對於透明待測物的量測，因為反射光的資
訊不足而較易失真甚至產生誤判的情形。 
圖 9 為利用共焦顯微鏡量測 Spacer 及另
一測試樣本 Cubic 的結果。而圖 10 則為利用
DIC 法量測 Spacer 及另一測試樣本 Cubic 的
6 
其表面傾斜角度最小約為 30°，考慮到試片取
得不易以及將來量測範圍的適用性，本研究在
光學軟體模擬的情況下，將以傾斜角度 10°、
20°、…、60°的待測物進行模擬；而在實驗驗
證方面，則以 30°、45°、60°的稜鏡進行實際
取像與重建。 
整體 DIC 顯微鏡模擬架構如圖 16 所示。
進行光學模擬時的參數設定整理於表 4 本研
究的光學模擬中，共使用了階高待測物、不同
角度的完美稜鏡以及邊緣有倒角的 30°稜
鏡。模擬階高待測物主要是為了與先前的實驗
結果進行比較，證實光學模擬參數符合實際實
驗情況。模擬不同角度的完美稜鏡則是期望能
從中觀察重建結果的規律，並將其中 30°、45
°、60°完美稜鏡的模擬結果與實驗量測進行驗
證。最後模擬具有倒角的 30°稜鏡，觀察 DIC
影像是否會因此產生變化。 
完美稜鏡 
    為了方便與實驗結果進行比較，僅將 10X
放大率量測 30 度完美稜鏡以及 20X 放大率量
測 30、45 度完美稜鏡這三組模擬結果詳細列
出，並將各角度的完美稜鏡重建結果整理於表
5。 
從各個角度完美稜鏡的模擬以及重建結
果來看，物鏡的數值孔徑與工作距離對於 DIC
顯微鏡可量測的角度範圍有著決定性的影響。 
由於物鏡的數值孔徑只允許某個角度範圍內
的光線進入物鏡，若稜鏡角度太大會造成光線
偏折角度過大，使得光線無法通過物鏡到最後
的影像感測器上，因此當稜鏡角度太大時無法
進行量測。 
以實驗用的光學元件規格模擬時，10X 物
鏡只能讓 30°以下的稜鏡成像，而 20X 物鏡則
能讓 45°以下的稜鏡成像。若在模擬情況下將
物鏡的數值孔徑增大，其餘參數皆不變，則
20X 物鏡能夠模擬出 60°稜鏡的 DIC 影像，並
且擷取到相位微分資訊。10X 物鏡則因工作距
離較大，若要模擬 30°以上的稜鏡成像，需要
另外建立較大的 DIC 稜鏡，無法單純以增加物
鏡數值孔徑的方法增加模擬角度。圖 17 顯示
稜鏡角度與重建結果的關係。一如預期計算出
之角度與實際角度有相當大的差異。 
從圖 17 亦可發現，相同角度的稜鏡透過
不同放大倍率物鏡模擬成像之後的重建結果
也會不一樣。例如 30°稜鏡的重建結果，以
10X、20X 物鏡模擬成像，其待測物相位微分
資訊或是重建角度不僅數值不同而且還差了
一個負號。這個現象主要是由於 10X 物鏡與
20X 物鏡的工作距離不同，使得光線經過 10X
物鏡以及20X物鏡之後打在合光DIC稜鏡的位
置不同，打在 DIC 稜鏡不同位置上的光線則會
因為 DIC 稜鏡膠合角度以及材料本身的 、
產生不同的相位差。因此，我們最後擷取到的
DIC 影像不只有待測稜鏡的相位差還包含 DIC
稜鏡本身所造成的相位差。 
為了方便對實驗與模擬結果進行比較，將
30°稜鏡的實驗、模擬結果以及 45°稜鏡的實
驗、模擬結果整理於表 6。表內主要的參數有
DIC 影像右側再次接收到光線資訊之後的相
位微分值以及最終的重建角度，其中相位微分
值是取相位微分資訊圖中黑框部分的平均。從
表 6可以看出實驗與模擬的相位微分值、重建
角度皆相當接近，實驗的相位微分值在 10X、
20X放大倍率之間亦存在DIC稜鏡造成的相位
差，由此可以進一步確認模擬模型的準確性。 
 
六、結論 
本研究成功的驗證了利用差分干涉對比
術(Differential Interference Contrast, DIC)量測
透明材質待測物表面形貌的可行性。根據理論
推導、模擬與實驗的結果，可以說明 DIC 具
有量測 TFT color filter、transparent grating、
spacer 等透明結構表面形貌的能力。至於在本
研究的量測實驗中，則得出以下結論： 
1.透過反射式 DIC 可成功的量測階高標
準片，並在未知待測物折射率的情形下，量測
部分的透明材質待測物，例如：TFT color 
filter、transparent grating。 
2.透過穿透式 DIC 可成功的量測 TFT 
8 
表 1 實驗模擬參數設定表 
模擬參數項目 設定值 模擬參數項目 設定值 
Shear distance 2μm Image pixel size 0.5μm 
Wavelength 550nm FOV 256μm × 256μm 
CCD real pixel size 5μm 
Noise percent 
0；0.01%；0.1%；
1%；10% Magnification 10X 
 
表 2 訊號位置偏移 10%情形下 試片規格參數 
訊號位置最大偏移 10% 
試片最大高度 
h (um) 1 2 3 4 5 
試片最大斜面角度 
θ(deg ) 7~8 3~4 2~3 1~2 1~2 
 
表 0 訊號位置偏移 20%情形下 試片規格參數 
訊號位置最大偏移 20% 
試片最大高度 
h (um) 1 2 3 4 5 
試片最大斜面角度 
θ(deg ) 15~16 7~8 5~6 3~4 3~4 
 
表 4 光學模擬參數設定 
 光學元件 參數 
光源 
 波長  550nm 
 光線數  150x150 
 光束大小  1.4mm x 1.4mm 
偏振元件 
 偏振片  45° 
 四分之一波片  135° 
 檢偏鏡  0°、45°、90°、135° 
DIC 稜鏡  剪切距離  3.15μm 
透鏡 
 聚焦透鏡  NA 值=0.3 
 物鏡  10X (NA=0.3 WD=11mm)  20X (NA=0.45 WD=3.15mm) 
成像面  視野範圍 
 10X (140μm x 140μm) 
 20X (70μm x 70μm) 
 像素大小  4.65μm 
待測物  材料  BK7  折射率  n=1.519 
 
 
 
10 
 
 
(a) bias: 0 degrees 
 
(b) bias: 90 degrees 
 
(c) bias: 180 degrees 
 
(d) bias: 270 degrees 
Shear direction: horizontal 
 
(a) bias: 0 degrees 
 
(b) bias: 90 degrees 
 
(c) bias: 180 degrees 
 
(d) bias: 270 degrees 
Shear direction: vertical 
圖 2 實驗參數模擬 step high standard phantom 的 DIC 微分相位差影像 
 
 
加 入 雜
訊 0% 0.1% 10% 
模 擬 重
建結果 
 
相 位 誤
差 分 布
圖 
   
圖 3 MFPI 重建結果與相位誤差分布 
 
加入雜訊對重建後相位的方均根誤差影響 加入雜訊對重建後相位的方均根誤差分佈 
圖 4 誤差分析 
12 
 
圖 7 AFM 量測 Spacer 結果 
 
 
 
(a) Spacer 
 
(b) Cubic 
圖 8 WYKO 白光干涉量測結果 
 
(a) Spacer 
14 
 
 
 
(a) Spacer 
 
 
(b) Cubic 
圖 10 利用 DIC 法量測結果 
重建後影像(line analysis) horizontal line 
重建後影像(line analysis) vertical line 
H
eight (nm
) 
H
eight (nm
) 
重建後影像(line analysis) horizontal line 
重建後影像(line analysis) vertical line 
H
eight (nm
) 
H
eight (nm
) 
16 
 
圖 14 待測物表面傾斜角度(θ)與出射光線角度( )關係圖 
 
 
圖 15 待測物表面傾斜角度與出射光線偏移量關係圖 
 
圖 16 DIC 顯微鏡模擬架構立體圖 
20X,NA=0.45 
10X,NA=0.3 
 
 
 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 98-2221-E-007-115-MY2 
計畫名稱 應用差分干涉對比術於透明材質的三維形貌量測方法（第 2 年） 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
林士傑 
清華大學動機系教授 
會議時間地點 Aug.07-11, 大陸雲南麗江 
會議名稱 7th International Symposium on Precision Engineering Measurements and Instrumentation( ISPEMI2011 ) 
發表論文題目 Wedge angle measurement of transparent objects by adopting transmitted differential interference contrast technique 
 
ISPEMI2011 此次於 2011 年 8 月 7 日至 11 日在風光秀麗的雲南麗江舉行。由於
這已是第七屆舉辦，因此有相當多的學者參與。大會報告表示，此次會議投稿
有 270 於篇，最後篩選出 150 於篇於大會發表，並委由 SPIE 出版。 而國內也有
相當多的學者參加此次會議。 
會議的專題演講歷來皆是大會的焦點。此次會議除邀請五位學者進行專題演
講，特別邀請一位資深學者作為 life time speaker。首位上場的是西安交通大學
的副校長兼精密量測中心的主任 prof. Zhuangde Jiang, 他的演講介紹了西安交大
在微奈米相關研究的進展；內容包括奈米標準元件的製作、微機電機械性質量
測設備、微座標量測系統、微機械人、微流體系統量測、高精密加工等。 
第二位演講者是來自澳洲 Swinburne University of Technology 的 prof. Min Gu. 擁
有半百研究團隊的他擁有非常驚人的研究成果。在他的報告裡介紹了飛秒雷射
的發展及影響。 而此次的會議報告則集中在飛秒雷射在生物光電的應用；內容
包括利用非秒雷射搭配視覺檢測進行癌細胞的檢測及治療等。 
第三位演講者是來自韓國 KAIST 的 prof. Seung-Woo Kim,他的研究在高精密長
距離之研究。由於飛秒雷射的開發使得此一目標更加可行。然而由於光見的感
應速度相對太慢，使得利用飛秒雷射所能達到的改善受到限制。於是，他們提
出利用分光，建立參考光電訊號並與量測所得的訊號結合，可以大幅改善此一
問題。目前，他們已經組裝一測試設備，打算隨衛星發射到外太空進行測試。 
第四位演講者是來自日本 Kyushu University 的 prof. Syuhei Kurokawa。 他的研
究領域包含光學元件化學機械拋光技術研究、超精密量測等。在會議中他以齒
輪為主題，介紹齒輪加工相關技術及常用齒輪形貌量測設備。 他指出微小齒輪
 
 
 
 
 
Wedge angle measurement of transparent objects by adopting 
transmitted differential interference contrast technique 
 
Sheng-Kang Yua, Wei-Lun Chena, Ting-Kun Liub, Shih-Chieh Lin*a 
aDept. of Power Mechanical Engineering, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan;           
bCenter for Measurement Standards, Industrial Technology Research Institute, Hsinchu, Taiwan 
ABSTRACT   
Effects of the wedge prism angle on the accuracy of angle measurement using the transmitted phase shifting differential 
interference contrast (DIC) technique were studied in this paper.  The optical model was constructed and serious of 
simulations were conducted to fulfill this study.  Various prism angles were tested in the simulations.  As expected, 
results indicated that the reconstructed wedge angle measured by the DIC system was incorrect because the light 
propagation became irregular.  Regardless of the profile reconstruction result, the original optical path differences of 
light were highly correlated to the prism angle.  Therefore, modification is needed to calculate the wedge angle 
accurately when the DIC approach is adopted.  It is also found that the magnification of the objective lens (correspond to 
the numerical aperture and the working distance) have significant effects on the measurement.  These results suggest that 
modification is needed to calculate the wedge angle accurately when the DIC approach is adopted.  This study might 
provide some valuable information for adopting the DIC technique when it comes to complex geometry measurement in 
the future. 
Keywords: Differential Interference Contrast (DIC), wedge angle, transparent objects 
1. INTRODUCTION  
Transparent components such as thin-film transistors, glass substrates, transparent electrodes, and light guide plates are 
greatly employed due to the rapid development of optoelectronic industry.  As these components are fabricated with 
complex surface structure to fulfill function and to improve optical performance [1-2], there is an increasing demand for 
measuring the profile of these transparent components to ensure the quality in industry.  A variety of profilometery 
techniques has been developed including contact instruments (stylus profilometer, and atomic force microscope [3]) and 
non-contact instruments (triangulation laser scanner, structure light inspection system, scanning electron microscope, 
confocal microscope, and interferometer [4-7]).  Non-contact instruments are suitable for industrial measurement of 
transparent objects because of higher processing rate and less destruction. 
One such non-contact technique is differential interference contrast (DIC), which is a beam-shearing interference system 
in which the reference beam is shear by a minuscule distance. The DIC technique produces high contrast shadow-cast 
images that represent the gradients of optical path difference in specimen. The technique can properly be adopted in 
transparent objects measurement that features the advantages of high spatial resolution, vibration resistance, and 
outstanding contrast.  
Although the DIC technique was originally used to enhance the image contrast of a transparent specimen to its 
environment, the capability of quantitative measurement is curial in industrial application.  Lessor et al. [8-9] proposed 
a quantitative surface topography determination method of reflected DIC.  Shimada et al. [10] developed a reflected DIC 
microscope system with phase shifting technique by the Nomarski prism movement.  Cogswell et al. [11] proposed a 
geometric phase shifting technique that can convert conventional transmitted DIC microscope into quantitative mode by 
de Senarmont compensator and then King et al. [12] increased the accuracy of measurement by post-calibration.  
In our previous study [13], we measured the sub-micron thickness of step high structure of transparent objects by 
adopting phase shifting DIC (PS-DIC) technique. It is of interest to further study the light propagation mechanisms in the 
measurement of complex geometry in the PS-DIC system. In this report, the wedge angle measurement of prisms is used 
as a stepping stone to study the effects of complex geometry on DIC images and profilometery reconstruction results.  
 
 
 
 
 
(a) Schematic diagram (b) Relations between wedge angle and exit angle 
(Assumption: vertical incidence lights, n1=1, n2=1.519) 
Figure 2. Light propagation through a wedge prism. 
 
 
                        Figure 3. The formation of DIC image and the optical diagram. 
 
3. SIMULATION STUDIES 
3.1 Simulation model 
In this study, the optical software Advanced Systems Analysis Program (ASAP®) was adopted to simulate the light 
propagation mechanisms in transmitted PS-DIC system.  Fig. 4 shows the schematic diagram of the simulation model.  
There were three main part of the model: (1) illumination subsystem, (2) object, and (3) imaging subsystem.  
The illumination subsystem consisted of a light source, polarizer, quarter-wave plate (QWP), collection lens, aperture 
stop, field stop, Wollaston prism, and a condenser.  A monochromatic light source with a wavelength of 550 nm was set.  
The fast axis of the QWP after the polarizer was set at +45°.  The angle between the polarizer optical axis and the QWP 
fast axis were rotated in order to shift the phase. Then the illumination subsystem was set to have a conjugate back focal 
plane, allowing us to modify the intensity and phase distribution at the back focal plane of the objective lens in the 
imaging subsystem.  The condenser had the numerical aperture (NA) of 0.30 illuminated the examined object.  In the 
illumination subsystem, Köhler illumination was reached.   
 
 
 
 
3.2 Design of the study 
A series of simulations are conducted to study the effects of the wedge angle of prism on the PS-DIC images and 
profile reconstruction results.  The wedge angles of the prism tested in our simulation model were 10°, 20°, 30°, 40°, 50°, 
and 60°.  We also studied the effects of the objective lens magnification on the PS-DIC images and profile reconstruction 
results.  Note that the numerical aperture (NA) and working distance (WD) will also vary when different magnification is 
applied. 
 
4. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
Figs. 5 and 6 display the transmitted PS-DIC images and profile reconstruction of the 30°wedge prism and 40°wedge 
prism, respectively. All the wedge angle reconstructed results of our simulation test are presented in Fig. 7.  The profile 
reconstruction results indicated that the angles measured were different from the angles specified. As we expected, this is 
so since that the optical path difference between the two polarized beams split by Wollaston prism will change when 
these beams passing through a slope.  In addition, when the phase difference between two adjacent pixel is larger than 2π, 
unwrap technique is needed to recover the accurate value for the phase difference. 
                 
 
(a) Transmitted PS-DIC images of 30° wedge prism (Bias = 0° / 90° / 180° / 270°; 10X objective lens) 
(b) Profile reconstruction (30° wedge prism, 10X objective lens) 
Figure 5. DIC images and profile reconstruction results (30° wedge prism, 10X objective lens) 
 
 
 
 
 
It is also found that the measurement of 40°, 50°, 60°wedge prisms using 10X objective lens and 50°, 60°wedge prisms 
using 20X objective lens were impossible because the transmitted light shift and could not be detected by CCD due to 
deflection when slope is high.  It is likely that the dominating factors are the NA and WD of the objective lens.  These 
factors may limit the maximum measurable wedge angle of the system. 
In addition to the measurement result, it was found that the reconstructed profile was also inaccurate especially at the 
edge of the wedge prism.  It is interested to observe the blur area around the center of the DIC images (see Fig. 8) which 
is correspond to the edge of the wedge prism.  It seems that each one of the two split beams in the blur area will shift and 
could not interfere with the other one when the beam passing through the edge of prism. As a result, the blur area would 
cause inaccuracy of the reconstructed profile. 
 
 
 10° wedge prism 20° wedge prism 30° wedge prism 
10X objective lens 
(FOV=140×140μm) 
     
20X objective lens 
 (FOV=70×70μm)  
   
Figure 8. The blur area in DIC images (Bias=180°). 
 
5. CONCLUSIONS 
In this study, the transmitted PS-DIC model is constructed and simulations are conducted to measure the wedge angle of 
prisms. Various wedge angles from 10° to 60° are tested in the simulations. In line with the simulation results of the 
optical model, the wedge angles measured were different from the angles specified. This is because the optical path 
difference between the two split beams will larger than 2π. Therefore, we suggested that modification should be applied 
to determine the wedge angle accurately when the DIC approach is adopted. Another finding is that the wedge angle 
larger than 40° of prisms using 10X objective lens and the wedge angle larger than 50° wedge prisms using 20X objective 
lens were immeasurable because the transmitted light could not be collected into the imaging subsystem. The dominating 
factors are the NA and WD of the objective lens. The larger of the NA value, the more light can be collected by the 
objective lens and the CCD as well.  The smaller of WD, the smaller of shift distance after the transmitted light passing 
out of the wedge prism. These two factors limit the maximum measurable wedge angle of the system. As a result, these 
findings suggest that post modification of the measured OPD and suitable selection of the objective lens will increase the 
wedge prism measurement accuracy in DIC system. 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/09/16
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 應用差分干涉對比術於透明材質的三維形貌量測方法
計畫主持人: 林士傑
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-007-115-MY2 學門領域: 精密量測
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
可以開發成為量測奈米等級透明/不透明結構物形貌量測機台 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
