摘要 
本研究針對植入式生醫微系統提出一結合 CMOS 溫度感測電路且具定功率與混模信
號輸出。此外，也設計一定功率多準位比較器，應用於電源功耗之比較。本電路採用國家
晶片系統設計中心 TSMC 0.35µm mixed-signal 2P4M poly-cide 3.3/5V models。此次模擬結果
顯示本電路適合應用溫度限制之於植入式系統，工作電壓為 2.5V，功耗為 37.2 uW。 
 
關鍵字：溫度感測，植入式系統，比較器 
 
Abstract 
This study presents a fully integrated CMOS temperature sensing circuitry for implantable 
bio-medical system with low power and mixed-mode signal output. It also presents a new type of 
multi-level comparator which has fixed power consumption even add more stages. The circuit 
was verified by using TSMC 0.35µm mixed-signal 2P4M poly-cide 3.3/5V models. The 
simulation results show the proposed circuit adapted well to the application for a limited 
temperature range in implantable systems and it only consumed 37.2uW at 2.5V power supply. 
 
Keywords：temperature sensing circuitry，implantable system，comparator 
 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
Recently, multidisciplinary researches involving electronic and bio-medical engineering are 
very popular. Using electronic systems into our body is a trend for the future. However, with just 
a +2 C° change in body temperature, protein denaturation occurs [1]. Therefore, monitoring 
electronic devices’ temperature is very critical for implantable systems. Nevertheless, temperature 
sensors presented in other researches provide a wide range of temperature that could be sensed 
but has some disadvantages such as: complex circuitry, high power, large area and high noise. 
They also contain additional ADC, filters, and much more digital circuits [2][3].Thus, we design 
a temperature sensing circuitry with low power and low cost for implantable systems. We also 
propose a new multi-level comparator in our system. This kind of comparator can be adapted to 
other structures which need DAC, ADC, Power Management System, and the like. 
 
II.  BASIC TOPOLOGY 
Our body temperature does not change significantly under normal environmental conditions, 
the temperature sensor implanted into our body only needs to sense 35 °C ~ 42 °C, which is just a 
small range. And the changing range merely 6 °C ~ 8 °C (from 7°C ± 1°C)  For this reason, our 
main purpose is to design a circuit that will produce a precise signal output that corresponds to 
temperature which can be utilized in implantable bio-medical applications. The structure of our 
design is illustrated in Fig. 1. 
Normally, temperature sensors have problems regarding offset, especially in low voltage 
system. Nowadays, many researchers have work out this problem [2]-[4]. The way to solve this 
problem in our research is to first design two circuits: 1) a thermal insensitivity voltage reference 
(TIVR) and 2) a temperature-dependent voltage (TDV) circuit. Their output will serve as the 
inputs to the non-inverting amplifier. This non-inverting amplifier will then serve two purposes: 1) 
it will cancel the dc offset and 2) it will amplify the remaining small signal that we need (Fig. 1). 
The second part is that, we used a voltage divider across TIVR to make precise voltage levels 
which will serve as the reference levels for the multi-level comparator. Then, the output of the 
non-inverting amplifier, Vtemp, will be compared to the precise voltage levels of the voltage 
divider, and be converted to a digital signal by using the multi-level comparator. And lastly, we 
utilized the same precise voltage levels of the voltage divider and output of the multi-level 
comparator and used it as inputs to the multiplexer. The resulting output of the multiplexer will 
1 
 
MNA~MNC into triode region, and let VA~VC output low. Similarly, when Vin is higher than 
Level A but less than Level B and C, most current would go through MPA. For MPB and MPC, 
Vin still have higher Vov, so it would cause these two MOSFETs go into the cutoff region, then 
MNB and MNC will mirror MN into the triode region, VB and VC will still maintain a low 
voltage but VA will go high. 
Different comparator stages have different current distributions. When a certain comparator, as 
an example, has n stages and all the outputs are high, one of the current branches would be 
nII Biasn /=                 (2.1) 
Where n is the number of stages of the comparator 
But power consumption will be fixed as (2.2) 
DDBias VIPower ×=            (2.2) 
From (2.1), current through each stage would adjust by itself, this kind of adjustment cause 
worst output driver. In addition, differential pair has common mode rejection, it still has some 
voltage to follow. To solve this situation, we make use of two inverters to improve the drawbacks 
we mentioned before. This kind of comparator is suitable for low input common mode voltage; to 
modify this problem, we designed another n-type differential pair as a Multi-level Comparator 
and combined its input and output nodes with the p-type Multi-level Comparator to reach 
Rail-to-Rail Multi-level Comparator (Fig. 6). 
 
IV.  SIMULATION RESULTS 
The simulation adopts HSPICE simulator and uses TSMC 0.35 um mixed-signal 2P4M 
poly-cide 3.3/5V model parameters. In order to understand the character of comparator and 
voltage divider, we use voltage divider to generate five voltage levels (VA~VE), we then sweep 
Vin and the results are clearly illustrated in Fig. 7. When Vin is lower than the voltage divider 
level, output is low, and vice versa. 
As shown in Fig. 8, we tested this system by using different temperature, Vtemp (equal to Vin 
of comparator) is the result while a temperature sensor connects with a non-inverting amplifier. 
LA ~ LE are different voltage levels from one voltage divider, we can design these voltage levels 
to get needed temperature information and then we could put Vin and voltage level into 
multi-level comparator. Finally, we get temperature status, as VA ~ VE. 
In order to use voltage divider more efficiently, we designed its output with comparator’s send to 
thermometer multiplexer, and then utilize this method to get different voltage level and digital 
output (from comparator), so that we can obtain temperature data from these analog and digital 
signals (Fig. 9). 
We sweep different temperatures to get the relationship between Vtemp and multiplexer output. 
From the result we can know different temperatures would output different voltage level. The 
system performance is shown in Table 1. 
 
V.  CONCLUSION 
Because the implantable device is not suitable for off chip adjustment and need to be 
deliberated about area and power consumption. Thus, the simpler the structure is, the more 
chances to less power consumption are. For this reason, a temperature sensor with simple, 
accuracy, no need for off chip circuit and could provide analog and digital outputs which applied 
to implantable device is presented in our research. In addition, to heighten to precise of sensor, 
we raise PSRR and T.C. of Vref to reach 61dB (at 10Hz) and 6.67 ppm / °C (From 0 °C ~100 °C) 
respectively. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1]Goto, K.; Nakagawa, T.; Nakamura, O.; Kawata, S., "An implantable power supply with an 
optically rechargeable lithium battery", Biomedical Engineering, IEEE Transactions on Volume 
48,Issue 7,July 2001 Page(s):830 - 833 
3 
 
 Out
MEPMEN
MDPMDN
MCN MCP
MBN MBP
MAN
VAVBVD VCVE
LA
LB
LC
LD
LE
VDD
MVDP
Vref
Vdd 
LA
LB
LC
LD
MDN
RD1
RD2
RD3
RD4
RD5
LX
LE
MUX
n
RD6
Thermometer Multiplexer
5 to
 6 M
ulti
plex
er
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4 Voltage Divider & Thermometer Multiplexer 
 
 
Level A
Vin
Level B Level C
MPA MPB MPCMP
MN MNA MNB MNC
VA VB VC
Bias
VDD 
MB 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5 P-type Multi-level Comparator 
 
 
Level A
Vin
Level B
MPA MPBMP
MN MNA MNB
VB1
VDD 
MB1
VOA
VB2
VDD 
VOB
MB2
MC
MCA MCB
VB
VB
VA
VA
MNA MNB
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6 Rail-to-rail multi-level comparator 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 7 The simulation result of Multi-level Comparator 
 
 
5 
 
