中文摘要： 
利用兩步驟活性自由基與活性開環聚合，本實驗室成功的合成具有掌性分子（chiral 
molecules ） 之 掌 性 聚 苯 乙 烯 與 聚 左 旋 乳 酸 雙 團 聯 共 聚 物 --- PS-PLLA 
(poly(styrene)-b-poly(L-lactide))，並首度發現雙團聯共聚物自組裝(self-assembly)之一全新奈
米微結構：三維有序奈米螺旋微結構。由穿透式電子顯微鏡之形態觀察顯示 PLLA 鏈段形
成特殊之奈米尺寸螺旋體微結構，並且於聚苯乙烯主體內(PS-rich fractions)形成類似六角圓
柱微結構之排組。且若提高 PLLA 之體積分率(PLLA-rich fractions)，可觀察到由非掌性之
PS 鏈段所形成之掌性奈米螺旋微結構於 PLLA 之主體中(核殼圓柱型(core-shell cylinder)奈
米微結構)，並可透過生物分解之方式移除 PLLA 鏈段而得到 PS 之奈米中空管。 
 
關鍵詞：掌性，聚苯乙烯與聚左旋乳酸雙團聯共聚物，核殼圓柱型奈米微結構，奈米螺旋
體，奈米中空管 
 
Abstract: 
Chiral diblock copolymers, poly(styrene)-b-poly(L-lactide)s (PS-PLLA), in which PLLA 
backbone prefers left-handed helical conformation, were prepared by sequential living free 
radical and living ring-opening polymerizations. Novel microphase-separated morphology of 
PLLA left-handed nanohelices hexagonally packed in PS matrix was observed. Moreover, a 
core-shell cylinder microstructure with helical sense in bulk were found in the self-assembly of 
the PLLA-rich PS-PLLA. Furthermore, tubular nanostructure can be simply obtained by 
hydrolyzing the degradable PLLA block in the core-shell cylinder microstructure; providing an 
easy and convenient way for the preparation of tubular nanostructure so as to appear promising 
applications in nanotechnologies..  
 
Keywords: chirality, PS-PLLA, nanohelical structure, core-shell cylinder, PS hollow nanotube 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I 
annealing temperature, Tmax = 175℃, for 3 min in order to eliminate the crystalline residues 
formed during the preparation procedure of PLLA. The samples were then cooled at a rate of 150 
℃/min to room temperature and heated again to Tmax to examine Tg, Tc and Tm. Immediately, the 
samples were cooled at a rate of 150°C/min to a preset temperature, Tc, for isothermal 
crystallization, and thus we could find the crystallizable region. The DSC sample size was around 
5 mg for all the melting behavior studies. Each measurement was performed at least twice. 
Wide-Angle X-ray Diffraction (WAXD). For WAXD experiments, samples which were 
prepared via thermal annealing and then quenched to room temperature were proved that no 
crystalline residues in them. Thus we could make sure that TEM images and SAXS data were 
obtained in amorphous state and no crystalline effect. A Siemens D5000 1.2 kW tube X-ray 
generator (Cu Kα radiation) with a diffractometer was used for WAXD powder experiments. The 
scanning 2θ angle ranged between 5° and 40° with a step scanning of 0.05° for 3s. The diffraction 
peak positions and widths observed from WAXD experiments were carefully calibrated with 
silicon crystals with known crystal size. 
Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM). Bright-field transmission electron microscopy 
(TEM) images were obtained using the mass thickness contrast with a JEOL JEM-1200CXII 
transmission electron microscope (at an accelerating voltage of 120 kV). The film specimens 
were microtomed at room temperature using Leica Ultramicrotome. Staining was accomplished 
by exposing the samples to the vapor of a 4% aqueous RuO4 solution for 3 hr. The RuO4 attacks 
the double bonds in the PS blocks, rendering those microphase separated domains dark in TEM 
via mass thickness contrast. 
Small-Angle X-ray Scattering (SAXS). SAXS experiments were conducted at the 
synchrotron X-ray beam-line B01 at the National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center in 
Hsin-Chu National Laboratory. 
Hydrolysis. It is known that aliphatic polyesters can be hydrolytically degraded because of 
the unstable character of the ester group.66, 67 Samples were been placed in NaOH solution for 5 
days to degrade PLLA block, and then dispersed in MeOH solution. The solution was dropped on 
carbon-coated films, and then stained by RuO4 for TEM experiments. 
 
III. Results and Discussion  
A unique microstructure, core-shell cylinder morphology, was identified by TEM imaging 
along different projections. Figure 3a shows a projection along the cylinder axis in which RuO4 
stained PS microdomains appear as dark shells whereas PLLA microdomains appear as bright 
matrix and cores. In contrast to the bright cores, gray cores can be commonly observed. The 
contrast of gray cores is attributed to the misalignment between the axis of core-shell cylinders 
and projection.  
Tilting experiments were also performed to examine the observed morphology (Figure 4). A 
projection normal to the cylindrical axes (Figure 3b) further confirmed the suggested core-shell 
cylinder microstructure where the dark shells and gray cylinder cores can be observed; consistent 
with the assumed core-shell cylinders. Figure 5 shows one-dimensional (1D) SAXS profile at 
which the diffraction peaks occur at q* ratios of 1:√3:√4:√7. A hexagonally packed lattice of 
core-shell cylinders is thus identified by SAXS; consistent with TEM observations (Figure 3a).  
2 
of helical microdomains. As illustrated in Figure 9, the polymer chains first appear as bilayered 
microstructure. Instead of forming cylinders as expected from the constituted composition in 
conventional block copolymer system (i.e., achiral block copolymers), core-shell cylinder 
microstructure is obtained. By introducing the chiral effect on the self-assembly of block 
copolymers, the energetically favored molecular dispositions lead to twisting and bending of the 
bilayered microstructure resulting in a helical curvature at the interface. Furthermore, the formed 
microdomains with helical sense can then be scrolled to reach the minimum-energy state. 
Consequently, a stable phase of core-shell cylinder microstructure can be found in the PS-PLLA 
block copolymer system (i.e., chiral block copolymers). To further examine the phase 
transformation mechanism, different approaches for the morphological development (e.g., using 
solvents with different evaporation rates and specific selectivity) have been carried out. 
Nevertheless, the tendency of scrolling attributed to the energetic consideration is so profound 
that easily leads to the formation of core-shell cylinder microstructure. Detailed studies of 
transform mechanisms from wounded ribbon helices or single-strand helices to the tubular-like 
core-cylinder microstructure are still in progress. In conclusion, the observed core-shell cylinder 
microstructure demonstrates a possible way of generating a unique phase with helical sense for 
achiral component by introducing chiral effect for microphase separation. Also, the self-assembly 
of the degradable PS-PLLA diblock copolymers provides an easy and convenient way of 
preparing tubular nanostructures because of the degradable nature of the ester group. Aspects of 
polymer chemistry such as the ability to cross-link the tubular nanostructure or to functionalize 
the polymer chains will offer exciting prospects in many applications such as drug delivery, 
nanocable and nanoreactors to template inorganic materials (metals, silica and other oxides etc.). 
 
IV. References 
(1) a) G. M. Whitesides, B. Grzybowski, Science 2002, 295, 2418. b) J.-M. Lehn, 
Supramolecular Chemistry. Concepts and Perspectives, VCH, Weinheim, 1995. 
(2) a) G. S. Hanan, J.-M. Lehn, N. Kyritsakas, J. Fischer, J. Chem. Soc. Chem. Commun. 1995, 
765. b) D. M. Bassani, J.-M. Lehn, G. Baum, D. Fenske, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 1997, 36,   
1845. c) M. Ohkita, J.-M. Lehn, G. Baum, D. Fenske, Chem. Eur. J. 1995, 5, 3471. 
(3)  T. Tachibana, H. Kambara, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1965, 87, 3015. 
(4) J. J. L. M. Cornelissen, M. Fischer, N. A. J. M. Sommerdijk, R. J. M. Nolte, Science 1998, 
280, 1427.  
(5)  U. Krappe, R. Stadler, I. Voigt-Martin, Macromolecules 1995, 28, 4558. 
(6) C. Y. Li, S. Z. D. Cheng, J. J. Ge, F. Bai, J. Z. Zhang, I. K. Mann, F. W. Harris, L.-C. Chien, 
D. Yan, T. He, B. Lotz, Phys. Rev. Lett. 1999, 83, 4558. 
(7)  J. C. Nelson, J. G. Saven, J. S. Moore, P. G. Wolynes, Science 1997, 277, 1793.  
(8) J. H. Jung, H. Kobayashi, M. Masuda, T. Shimizu, S. Shinkai, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2001, 123, 
8785. 
(9)  J. F. Hulvat, S. I. Stupp, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2002, 41, 1705. 
(10)  F. S. Bates, G. H. Fredrickson, Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 1990, 41, 525. 
(11) a) R.-M. Ho, Y.-W. Chiang, C.-C. Tsai, C.-C. Lin, B.-T. Ko, B.-H. Huang, J. Am. Chem. 
Soc. 2004, 126, 2704. b) Y.-W. Chiang, R.-M. Ho , B.-T. Ko, C.-C. Lin, Angew. Chem. Int.  
4 
 
Figure 2. TEM micrographs of PS55-PLLA95 (fPLLAv=0.65) viewing at tilting angles of a) 0o; b) 
20o; c) 30o. Tilting experiments confirms the observed core-shell cylinder microstructure. 
 
 
Figure 3. One-dimensional SAXS profile of PS55PLLA95 (fPLLAv = 0.65). 
 
 
Figure 4. One-dimensional WAXD profile of PS55-PLLA95 (fPLLAv=0.65) after quench 
from 175 . The WAXD results appear amorphous scattering; suggesting that there is℃  no 
PLLA crystallization effect on microphase-separated morphology. 
 
 
 
 
6 
 Figure 6. TEM image of hydrolyzed core–shell cylinder microstructures of PS55–PLLA95 (f 
PLLA
v = 0.65).  
 
 
Figure 7. a) TEM micrograph; b) SAXS profile of PS55-PLLA95 (f PLLAv=0.65) after annealing 
at 140 oC for 3hr. Core-shell cylinder microstructure remains as shown in TEM,and 1D 
SAXSprofilealso indicates hexagonally packed lattice which is consistent with TEM morphology. 
 
 
Figure 9. Schematic illustration of transition sequence from the vesicle to tubular structure. [a) 
Z.-C. Ou-Yang, J. Liu, Phys. Rev. Lett. 1990, 65, 1679. b) Z.-C. Ou-Yang, J. Liu, Phys. Rev. A 
1991, 43, 6826.]. 
8 
