 1
中文摘要 
民國 80 年政府為抑制台灣經濟過熱情形，制訂一連串如調高利率等金融降溫動作，其中
包含對房地產影響甚鉅的容積率管制，造成建商搶建風潮，導致往後空屋量過多，而房地產
賴以成長的因素主要來自於人口，有居住及商業的需求才有房地產的發展，但台灣目前人口
數逐漸下滑，經建會推估預測未來人口成長狀況，至民國 127 年時，台灣地區人口將趨近於
零成長，而台灣土地資源有限且土地成本愈來愈高及土地取得日益困難，建商可將既有的停
工閒置建築物規劃再復工，以避免造成土地成本的浪費。因此停工閒置建築物將是未來都市
發展建設之趨勢與潮流，而建商亦有獲利空間。 
研究著重工程糾紛、爭議的觀點探討台中市停工閒置建築物復工之要素及復工之解決對
策，針對台中市停工閒置建築物復工之對策，由分析與驗證結果探討其復工對策，其中影響
停工閒置建築物接手復工較為大的要素為付款問題、資金週轉不靈、資金不足、債務糾紛等，
可經由協商、和解、調解來解決問題，另外，法律訴訟程序冗長是影響停工閒置建築物尚未
接手復工之關鍵要素，可藉由增修停工閒置建築物相關法令來改善此現象。 
關鍵詞：停工閒置建築物、工程爭議、復工之解決對策 
英文摘要 
In 1991,the Government curb overheating in the case of Taiwan's economy to develop a series 
of cooling, such as higher interest rates and other financial moves, including a profound influence 
on the property of the floor area ratio controls, resulting in a construction company to build wave of 
looting led to the subsequent vacancy excessive The main factors for the growth of the real estate 
which is from the population, there is only demand for residential and commercial real estate 
development, but a gradual decline in Taiwan's current population, the Council for economic 
planning and development estimates to predict the future population growth situation, , Taiwan's 
population will be near zero growth in 2038, while Taiwan has limited land resources and land costs 
rising and increasing difficulties in land acquisition. Construction firms could replan the existing 
idle building and then return to work in order to avoid land the cost of waste. 
The study focus on engineering disputation, the point is to explore the element and solution of 
returning to engineering of construction-suspended building in Taichung. As a result, the study 
shows the common factors that affect returning to engineering of construction-suspended building 
are pay section issues, cash flow, lack of funds, and debt disputes. Then use SPSS statistical 
software to analyze the solutions of returning to engineering are negotiation, reconciliation and 
conciliation. The key element that affects construction-suspended building not return to engineering 
is the lengthy legal proceedings, by analysis of SPSS statistical software, solutions for the return to 
engineering is amend relevant law of construction-suspended building to improve this phenomenon. 
Keywords：Construction-suspended building, Engineering disputation, Solution of returning to 
Engineering 
 3
停工閒置建築物接手復工之影響性及發生可能性及復工對策結合，排列出前五名之停工
要素順序，如表 1 所示，發現前 5 名之影響性及發生可能性的大小皆為「D 施工階段」，除排
序 5 的發生可能性為「A.1.3 地上物所有權」。如以「D.1.1 停工閒置建築物荒廢多年」來看，
其較佳的解決對策為協商和解、調解，藉由 S.9 之解決對策改善此情況達到復工之目的。 
停工閒置建築物尚未接手復工之要素對照復工之解決對策結合，列出前 5 名之要素順
序，如表 2 所示，如以「E.1.1 涉及多個所有權人持分」來看，較佳的解決對策為協商和解、
調解，藉以 S.9 之解決對策改善目前尚未接手復工之情況，達到復工之目的避免資源的浪費。 
 
表 1 停工閒置建築物接手復工之要素前 5 名與解決對策之分析總表 
排
序 類別 停工要素 解決對策(優先順序) 
其他建
議 
影響性 D.6.3 付款問題/資金週轉不靈/資金不足/債務糾紛 S.9 協商、和解、調解 
 
1 發生可能
性 D.1.2 工程遲延 S.8 契約管理 
 
影響性 D.1.1 停工閒置建築物荒廢多年 S.1 增修停工閒置建築物相關法令 
 
D.1.1 停工閒置建築物荒廢多年 S.1 增修停工閒置建築物相關法令 
 
2 發生可能
性 D.6.1 額外增加成本(ex 物價波
動、賠償金額等) S.8 契約管理 
 
影響性 D.2.5 停工閒置建築物結構安全 S.1 增修停工閒置建築物相關法令 
 
3 發生可能
性 
D.6.3 付款問題/資金週轉不靈/資
金不足/債務糾紛 S.9 協商、和解、調解 
 
影響性 D.5.3 業主或承包商因故而不履行營造合約 S.9 協商、和解、調解 
 
D.6.2 景氣問題 4 發生可能
性 D.6.4 利息變化/建築融資利率/貸
款額度/金融緊鎖措施 
S.15 另籌資金、金融機構配套
措施 
政府政
策 配
套措施 
影響性 D.4.8 自然災害 S.12 完善的施工災害處理措施 
 
5 發生可能
性 A.1.3 地上物所有權 S.5 法院拍賣之法制修訂 
 
註： S.1 增修停工閒置建築物相關法令、S.2 規劃重大建設之構想、S.3 修改移轉容積率法令、S.4 加強停工閒
置建築處理制度、S.5 法院拍賣之法制修訂、S.6 獎勵措施、S.7 建立公共安全及綠化整治、S.8 契約管理、S.9
協商、和解、調解、S.10 仲裁、S.11 法院訴訟、S.12 完善的施工災害處理措施、S.13 強制工程保險與保證、S.14
專家鑑定、估價、S.15 另籌資金、金融機構配套措施、S.16 其他建議。 
 
 5
圖 2 停工閒置建築物復工對策 
 
 7
文獻回顧 
◇ 論文 
1. 許東旭，2002，臺中地區住宅市場發展趨勢之研究，逢甲大學，碩士論文。 
2. 陳輝如，2004，營建工程施工損鄰事件鑑定之研究，國立台北大學，碩士論文。 
3. 黃永良，2006，停工閒置建築物所衍生風險之對策研究以台中市為例，國立雲林科技大學，
碩士論文。 
4. 楊義隆，2008， 土地問題與土地政策，空大學訊，401 期。 
5. 葉昱賢，2003，建築施工損鄰事件處理模式之研究，國立臺灣大學，碩士論文。 
6. 邱國勳，2002，我國不良資產處理方式之研究，國立政治大學，碩士論文。 
7. 洪耀聰，2003，學校建築新建工程設計監造分併辦理之檢討研究-以台灣大學新建工程  為
例，國立台灣大學，碩士論文。 
8. 張國榮，2004，雙增雙減成果顯現，上海人大月刊，7 期。 
9. 張敏郎，2001，銀行不良債權處理機制－AMC 之研究，國防管理學院，碩士論文。 
10. 戚淑芳，2005，工程爭議之有效管理，國立成功大學，碩士論文。 
 
◇ 網站部分 
1. 行政院經濟建設委員會，http://www.cepd.gov.tw/，2007。 
2. 中華民國統計資訊網，http://www.stat.gov.tw/mp.asp?mp=4，2008。 
3. 中央銀行全球資訊網， http://www.cbc.gov.tw/mp1.html ，2008。 
4. 營建署營建統計月報表，
http://www.cpami.gov.tw/web/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=948&Itemid=75。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMPARATIVE STUDY ON LEGISLATION OF CONSTRUCTION 
EXPENSE PAYMENT BETWEEN CHINA AND TAIWAN  
 
Tian Han1, Shuzo Furusaka2, Tsung-Chieh Tsai3 
 
1Graduate Student, Dept. of Architecture and Architecture Engineering, Kyoto University 
2Associate Professor, Dept. of Architecture and Architecture Engineering, Kyoto University 
3Assistant Professor, Dept. of Engineering, National Yunlin University of Science & Technology 
 
ABSTRACT: In China, the Reform-Open policy was executed in 1978. During the following 30 years, the economic 
regime in China had been changed to a socialist market economy from a socialist planned economy, and the construction 
industry in China has been achieved high economic growth. However, as the construction project increasing, a lot of 
problems which affect the construction expense payment occur. And it is a fact that the construction expense payment 
disputes have become a serious problem now. Therefore, it is necessary to discuss the problem of Chinese construction 
expense payment. In this paper, we would like to clarify the difference of the legislation of construction expense payment 
between China and Taiwan. 
Keywords: Construction  Expense Payment   Legislation   China   Taiwan  
1. INTRODUCTION 
1.1 Background 
The construction industry in China has been achieved 
high economic growth since the Reform-Open Policy. 
GDP of the Chinese construction industry in 2006 is 
4,155 billion RMB, which increased 20.3% more than 
that in 20051). 
While internationalizing the construction market of 
China, the number of construction projects increases 
obviously.  As the construction project increases, a lot of 
problems which affect the construction expense payment 
occur, such as flaw in legislation, deficiency in 
construction management and so on. By 2003, the unpaid 
construction expense in China is about 186 billion RMB. 
About 5% of the unpaid construction expense has been 
still unpaid by 20062). The Chinese government attaches 
great importance to these problems, and is taking 
measures to solve them. But these problems are still 
rather serious now. 
Therefore, it is not appropriate to apply the focus only 
on the construction expense payment of China to clarify 
the feature of the construction expense payment of China. 
It is necessary to see the situation in other countries or 
regions. 
Moreover, to clarify the problem of construction 
expense payment, it is necessary to clarify the following 
things: the construction expense payment method, the 
content of construction quantity and quality confirmation, 
the process of construction expense payment, and so on. 
Therefore, the authors have done the comparative study 
on the construction expense payment with other countries 
or regions to solve these problems. 
 
1.2 Purpose 
In this paper, we choose Taiwan as the region for the 
comparison. 
Taiwan Region has the same background of history and 
culture as China.  After the World War Ⅱ, the 
construction industry of Taiwan Region has developed 
greatly by introducing the technology of United States 
and Japan. 
Then, comparing the legislation of the construction 
expense payment, it will be clarified the difference and 
the similarity between China and Taiwan Region and it 
will be understood that how the difference of a social 
system influences the construction industry.  
Frankly, the following two points are the purposes of 
this paper. 
To clarify the legislation′s difference and the 
similarity  of the construction expense payment between 
China and Taiwan Region. 
To clarify the individual problems and the common 
problems concerned with the legislation of the 
construction expense payment between China and Taiwan 
Region. 
In the future, we will carry out the comparative study 
of the construction expense payment and the quality 
confirmation among China, Japan and Taiwan Region.  
This paper is in the location of a preceding research. 
public construction project, the advance payment is 
provided only when it is necessary to pay”. 
There are no provisions of the subsequent payment in 
Taiwan. And the reserve payment is provided to be “Less 
than 5% of the construction expense”, but the reserve 
period is not provided. 
The comparative on legislation of the methods of 
construction expense payment between China and Taiwan 
Region is illustrated in Table 1. 
In China, because the advance payment is provided on 
legislation, the construction expense which is used on 
construction materials and equipments by the general 
contractor has been guaranteed. On the other hand, there 
are no regulations of the advance payment in Taiwan 
Region. Therefore, it is understood that the situation of 
the payment is advantageous to the client. 
 
 
Table 1   The comparative on legislation of the methods of construction expense payment 
 
 
Note)  The author made this table according to INTERIM METHORD OF CONSTRUCTION EXPENSE ([2004] 
No.369) of China and GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT METHOD LAW of Taiwan Region 
 
 
Moreover, there are two methods of the subsequent 
payment provided in China. However, it is doubt that 
whether the two methods can suit all kinds of 
construction projects or not. On the other hand, in Taiwan 
Region, the methods of the subsequent payment are not 
provided detailed as China, but it is considered that the 
methods of the subsequent payment can be chosen 
according to the different characteristic of the 
construction projects. That is to say, the methods of 
subsequent payment in Taiwan Region are more flexible 
than those in China. 
 
2.3 The Practicality of the methods of the construction 
expense payment 
In 2.2, it is clarified the legislation of the methods of 
the construction expense payment. Then, how is the 
practicality of the methods of the construction expense 
payment like. According to the questionnaire 
investigations and hearing investigations3) in China and 
Taiwan Region, we would like to clarify the situation of 
the methods of the construction expense payment in 
practical projects. Those are as follows: 
□ China 
Almost in public projects, the advance payment is 
provided to 10% of the construction expense. On the 
other hand, there is no advance payment in the private 
projects. 
About the subsequent payment, not only in public 
projects but also in private projects, it was only 30~50% 
of the completed construction quantity of the present term 
that has been paid. 
Moreover, the reserve payment is about 3% of the 
construction expense, and the reserve period is one year 
or two years in both public projects and private projects. 
□ Taiwan Region 
There is advance payment in those public projects 
whose construction expense is over 1 billion Taiwan 
dollars (about 3.5 YEN). Although the amount of the 
money of advance payment is different from project to 
project, they all stays between 10~30% of the 
construction expense. There is no advance payment in 
other public projects whose construction expense is less 
than 1 billion Taiwan dollars. And, there is no advance 
payment in private projects. 
About the subsequent payment, it was 95% of the 
completed construction quantity of half month, one 
Public construction Private construction  
China Taiwan Region China Taiwan Region 
Advance 
payment 
□10～30％ of the 
construction expense or 
according  to the contract 
□In some big  public 
construction project, the 
advance payment is 
provided only when it is 
necessary 
□10～30％of the 
construction expense or 
according  to the 
contract 
none 
Subsequent 
payment 
□according to every 
month＇s construction 
expense   
□milestone  
In either method 
60~90% of the completed 
construction quantity of the 
present term will be paid 
□according  to the 
contract 
□monthly 
performance 
responding method  
□milestone method 
□according  to 
the contract 
Reserve 
payment 
□5% of the construction 
expense, and the reserve 
period is one year 
□less than 5% of the 
construction expense, 
and the reserve period is 
not provided 
□5% of the 
construction expense, 
and the reserve period 
is one year 
□according  to 
the contract 
office), he or she still can be the executer of the quantity 
and quality confirmation. 
It is learned that the Architects or Technicians in 
Taiwan Region can do their jobs more flexible than the 
Supervisors can do in China. 
According to the questionnaire investigations and 
hearing investigations3) in China and Taiwan Region, it is 
illustrated the executer of construction quantity and 
quality confirmation and the comparative of executer of 
construction quantity and quality confirmation in Table 
3and Table 4 separately. 
  
 
Table 3   The executer of construction quantity and quality confirmation 
 
 
 
Table4   The comparative of executer of construction quantity and quality confirmation 
 
 
○ yes × no 
Note)  The author made the two tables according to the Reference 4) 
 
3. PROCESS OF THE CONSTRUCTION 
EXPENSE PAYMENT 
In 2, it is clarified the legislation and practicality of the 
methods of the construction expense payment and the 
executer of quantity and quality confirmation. Then we 
would like to clarify the process of the construction 
expense in practical projects according to the 
questionnaire investigations and hearing investigations3) 
in China and Taiwan Region. 
Maybe there are others processes outside the 
investigations. But we will not discuss the others which 
outside the investigations. 
The process of the construction expense payment in 
China and Taiwan Region is showed in Graph 2 ,3 and 
Graph 4, 5. 
 
Graph 2   The process of construction expense payment in general projects in China 
 
 China Taiwan Region 
Contractor □Supervision Company 1 (Jianli-danwei) □Supervision Company 2 (Jianzao-danwei), 
□Architects office (Jianzhu-shi office) 
□Technicians office (Ji-shi office) 
Executer □Supervisor (Jianli-gongchengshi) □Architects (Jianzhu-shi ) 
□Technicians (Ji-shi) 
 China Taiwan Region 
Business Monopoly ○ 
□Supervisor (Jianli-gongchengshi) is 
building business monopoly 
○ 
□ Architects (Jianzhu-shi ) and   
Technicians (Ji-shi)are building business 
monopoly   
Difference between public and 
private construction projects 
× × 
Difference between business × × 
General Contractor 
Application 
Client 
Check 
Yes 
Yes
Cash Cheque
Application data:
□ Application form 
□ Construction quantity confirmation form 
□ Construction quality confirmation form 
□ Check the data which were propounded 
from the general contractor 
□ Make the confirmation form 
No 
No 
□ If there is advance payment in this 
project, the client should pay the money 
after deducting the advance payment from 
the construction expense 
Supervision Company 1 
Confirmation 
表 Y04 
□ China 
  In general projects (Graph 2), Supervision Company 1 make the confirmation of construction quantity and quality. If 
there is no problem, the clients will pay to the general contractors without through the Supervision Company 1.  
  In a part of public projects (Graph 3), the Construction Agency is entrusted by the clients and almost has the same 
responsibility as the clients. If there is no problem, the clients should give the money to the Construction Agency at first, 
and the Construction Agency will pay the money to the general contractors. 
□ Taiwan Region 
In a part of public projects (Graph 5), the PCM occurs. However, it is not certain whether the PCM can play its role 
or not by now. The author will do some researches about these in a future time. 
We can see in Graph 5 that, the PCM is on the location of a consultant of the clients. This point is different from the 
Construction Agency of China. 
In general projects (Graph 4), the process is the same as China. 
 
4. CONCLUSION 
In this paper, it was clarified the legislation and practicality of the construction expense payment and the process of 
construction expense payment. By comparing the legislation and practicality of the construction expense payment, the 
difference of the methods of construction expense payment between China and Taiwan Region has been found, and the 
executer of construction quantity and quality confirmation has been clarified. From these, it was cleared that the rights 
and the responsibilities among client, supervisor and general contractor is ambiguous in China. In addition, the 
construction market is still immature by now. 
In the future, the author will investigate some construction project in China, Taiwan Region and Japan, and clarify 
theirs state of art of construction expense payment. And by comparing the difference between the legislation and the 
state of art, the problem of construction expense payment can be clarified. Then the author will focus on the rights and 
responsibilities of client. 
 
NOTE 
1) The construction project which not entrust the supervisor will not be discussed in this paper.  
2)  Construction agency: professional construction consultative company who can do all jobs for the client  
3)  PCM: Professional construction management 
 
REFERENCE 
1)  Chinese statistical yearbook, 2007 version 
2) Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development of the People’s Republic of China: 
http://202.123.110.3/zhibo5/content_330065.htm 
3) Questionnaire investigations and hearing investigations in China during 2007.3 to 2008.10 
Questionnaire investigations and hearing investigations in Taiwan Region during 2007.11 to 2008.5 
