具隱私保護能力之無線射頻辨識系統安全認證機制研究
及其軟硬體實現
On the Study and Implementation of the RFID Authentication
Protocol with Privacy Protection
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-274 -007
執行期間：97 年 8 月 1 日至 98 年 7 月 31 日
計畫主持人：李永振
共同主持人：郭文中
計畫參與人員：陳義文、黃奇烽、蔣亞霖
中文摘要
無線射頻辨識系統（Radio Frequency Identification，RFID）為本世紀十
大重要技術項目之一。RFID 利用積體電路與無線通信來存取與傳遞辨識之
資料，具有抵抗惡劣環境、可重複讀寫、非接觸式、可記錄多筆資料、可同
時讀取範圍內多個 RFID 電子標籤等特性，使得 RFID 成為物流供應鏈或相
關應用中，對商品進行追蹤與資訊回饋的最佳利器。RFID 最主要的功能包
括防偽與控管兩方面。未來在產業應用的發展無可限量。
RFID 是射頻無線技術與身份辨識的組合，除了某些非接觸式智慧卡，
大部分的 RFID 幾乎都只有辨識功能而少有安全認證功能，因此僅適用於低
安全且簡單的識別或標記。
在若干應用上，如電子收費與電子護照等應用上，安全認證機制為最
重要之關鍵技術。然目前許多系統卻安全性堪虞。有些系統計算複雜，亦不
適合應用於計算能力較低且記憶容量明顯不足之電子標籤上。另外在若干場
合，隱私性更為一重要之需求，現行許多機制對此需求顯然不能滿足。
本計畫針對 RFID 系統提出新的安全機制。此機制不但能有效認證電子
標籤，且能達到保護隱私之需求。所研發之安全認證機制，並進行安全性與
具隱私保護能力之無線射頻辨識系統安全認證機制研究
及其軟硬體實現
On the Study and Implementation of the RFID Authentication
Protocol with Privacy Protection
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-274 -007
執行期間：97 年 8 月 1 日至 98 年 7 月 31 日
計畫主持人：李永振
共同主持人：郭文中
計畫參與人員：陳義文、黃奇烽、蔣亞霖
ABSTRACT
The Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) system is an important
technology in our daily lives. They are useful tools in supply chain management
and inventory control. Industries include microchip fabrication, automobile
manufacturing, and even animals have deployed RFID systems for automatic
object identification.
RFID systems consist of radio frequency tags, tag readers, and databases.
Tag readers interrogate tags for their contents by broadcasting radio frequency
signals. The responding data of tags can be read automatically with wireless at a
rate of several hundred tags per second, and from a range of several meters.
Authentication is an important requirement for network applications.
However, most of RFID systems used today are lack of secure authentication
mechanism, such that they cannot be used in the scenarios that require secure
authentication. In some cases, privacy is also an important requirement to
protect tags’ users, however, most RFID systems also lack of privacy 
mechanism such that many RFID systems suffer from security and privacy
risks.
This project propose a secure mutual authentication protocol for RFID
systems. The computation complex of the proposed protocol is quite low.
Moreover, the privacy feature is ensured in the proposed protocol. The
developed low cost protocol will be implemented through software and
hardware. We hope this project will benefit to the RFID related industry.
Keywords: Radio Frequency Identification (RFID), Authentication
protocol, cryptography.
(3)Replay Attack: Adversaries attack system by retransmitting the eavesdropped information
if the system has insufficiency on security.
(4)Position Detection: The attacker can gain identification information from the
communications between tag and reader. This is used to locate the user and is a form of
privacy invasion of the user. For some VIPs or applications such as E-passport, how to
protect privacy is an essential issue.
Moreover, there are several issues such as ID synchronization and efficiency should be
considered. For privacy protection, the identity is always renewed on each session of
authentication. However, the renewed ID will probably lose synchronization between server
and tag such that authentication process will fail on next session. Besides, due to the limited
computing capacity and low storage space of low price tags, efficiency should be considered
on software/hardware implementation.
Until now, there are many approaches to enhance security or to protect privacy of the
RFID systems [2,4-7,10-12]. These approaches can be classified into two categories: one is to
disable tags and another is to use read access control mechanism. The disable tags function is
useful but it is difficult to ensure that the kill command was properly executed. Moreover, tag
suicide prevents any subsequent useful services such as special services for users. This
property actually diminishes the benefits of RFID tags. In addition, partially disable or rewrite
tag cannot prevent being tracked if tags response a fixed output [5].
With read access control, tags only respond to authorized readers. The read access control
mechanism can be further divided into fixed read access control and random read access
control. Fixed read access control stands for the authentication message and it is fixed on an
authentication process. Unfortunately, the system with fixed read access control cannot
prevent being tracked, because tags respond fixed and predictably. To avoid being tracked,
the tag’s response should be randomized such that it cannot be predicted [11]. However, some
randomized read access control based schemes only suited for a small number of tags, since
reader should identify tag by exhaustive searching and need much computation and
comparison. It is not practical for a large number of tags.
Gao et al. proposed a RFID system for supply chain in 2004 [5]. In 2007, Chen et al.
indicated that the Gao et al.’s system has drawback on security [3]. They proposed an
improvement to enhance the security. However, in this paper, we will show that the Chen et
al.’s protocol is not so secure as they claimed. After eavesdropping the transmitted message,
any adversary can masquaderade as a legal user to pass the authentication. In addition, we will
propose a new improvement protocol in Section 3 to fix the flaws.
2. The Gao et al.’s protocol and the Chen et al.’s protocol
In 2004, Gao et al. proposed an approach to provide security and privacy merits of the
RFID systems [5]. The Gao et al.’s protocol is described briefly as follows.
2.1The Gao et al.’s protocol
The system includes a server with API and database, readers and tags. Let RID and TID
be reader’s and tag’s identity, respectively. The reader’s identity RID is stored in the tag
memory beforehand, and the database at theserver end knows tag’s identity TID . There is a
pseudo random number generator built in the tag. The symbol (AB, m) denotes A sending
message m to B. Suppose that the communications between server and reader is through a
2.2.1 Drawback of the Chen et al.’s protocol.
The Chen et al.’s protocol is developed to improve Gao et al.’s scheme. However, their
protocol is still not as secure as they claimed. The drawbacks of the Chen’s protocolare
shown as follows.
1.It cannot resist counterfeiting attack.
Though the transmitted message such as ')( kIDh T  in the protocol is always changed,
any adversary still can obtain tag’s identity )( TIDh to masquerade as a legal user. An
adversary could find )( TIDh by the following steps:
(1) The adversary obtains k and ')( kIDh T  in Step2 and Step4, respectively.
(2) Similarly as Chen et al.’s method, the adversary shifts k to left for n bits (n is the
number of binary value “1” of random number k) to form a new random number k’.
(3) Then the adversary will obtain )( TIDh by:
')')(()( kkIDhIDh TT  .
From now on, with )( TIDh , the adversary can masquaderade as a legal user to pass the
next authentication session. Therefore, Chen et al.’s improvement protocol is insecure and 
cannot protect privacy as they declared.
2.It is not suit for hardware/software implementation.
In their protocol, a pseudo random number generator (PRNG) should be built in the tag.
However, due to low computation capability and very limited memory space of the tag, it is
difficult to implement a good PRNG in tag whether by hardware or by software. Thus their
protocol is impractical in implementation.
3. The improvement protocol to fix the drawback
In section 2.3, we have shown that the Chen et al’s protocol also has drawbacks on
security and implementation. In this section, we will propose a new improvement protocol to
fix the flaws. All notations are the same as those in Gao et al.’s or Chen et al’s protocol. Note
Figure 1. The Chen’s improvement protocol
Tag
IDR
k k
Query
Server
Data
base
Reader
)( kIDh R )( kIDh R
')( kIDh T ')( kIDh T 
In the proposed improvement protocol, the computation cost is quite low since only
exclusive-OR (XOR) operation and hash function are used. The proposed protocol is secure
and has capability to protect privacy. The merits of the proposed improvement protocol are as
follows.
(1) Protect privacy.
Generally, the tag can be traced if the transmitted messages are fixed. In the proposed
protocol, since k, )()( TR IDhkIDh  , )( kIDh T  , and )( kIDIDh RT  are
always changed on each authentication session. An adversary cannot identity tag by using
k, )()( TR IDhkIDh  , )( kIDh T  , and )( kIDIDh RT  . Thus any adversary
cannot trace the tag by eavesdropped messages. For security reason, the bit length of k,
TID and RID should be at least 128 bits.
(2) Resist counterfeiting
TID and RID are secret parameters and )(h is a public secure one-way function. Any
adversary cannot obtain TID or RID by eavesdropping the transmitted messages. That
is TID or RID cannot be obtained by using k, )()( TR IDhkIDh  , )( kIDh T  ,
and )( kIDIDh RT  since hash function is irreversible. Therefore, any adversary
cannot masquerade as a legal user.
(3) Obtain mutual authentication
After receiving )( kIDh T  in Step3, tag will verify whether it is hold. The server is
authenticated if )( kIDh T  is verified. That is through the message )( kIDh T  in
Step3, the server will authenticate tag. Similarly, when tag receives )( kIDIDh RT  in
Step4, tag can authenticate server by checking whether )( kIDIDh RT  holds.
Therefore, the new improvement protocol can achieve mutual authentication.
4. Conclusions
Due to the lower and lower cost and well-developed technology, the Radio Frequency
Identification (RFID) is widely used in the recent years. For most applications such as
supply chain, etc., the tags do not need security mechanism. However, in many applications
such as authentication, the security mechanism should be equipped to ensure it works
properly. Moreover, in some authentication scenario such as E-passport, it is required to
protect user’s privacy.
Though there are many methods been proposed to enhance the security of RFID systems,
however, there are security flaws in many mechanisms such that adversaries can attack the
systems. In this project, we have shown that some RFID protocols are still insecure and any
adversary can masquerade as a legal user if he/she eavesdrops the transmitted message. We
proposed an improvement protocol to fix the flaws. The new improvement protocol is secure
with merits of privacy protection, resisting counterfeit attack and obtain mutual authentication.
We also implement the proposed protocol by software and hardware.
5. References
[1]G.Avoine, “Privacy issues in RFID banknote protection schemes”, The Sixth International 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表
 可申請專利  可技術移轉 日期：98 年 9 月 28 日
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱：具隱私保護能力之無線射頻辨識系統安全認證機制研究
及其軟硬體實現
計畫主持人：李永振
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-274 -007
學門領域：EA1(資訊安全)
技術/創作名稱 具隱私保護能力之無線射頻辨識系統安全認證機制
發明人/創作人 李永振
技術說明
中文：
本機制僅利用單向雜湊函數完成具保護隱私效果之RFID認
證機制。本機制簡單易實現，且達安全之需求。本研發之機制如
下圖：
研發之機制具下列優點：
1. 保護使用者隱私。
2. 防止入侵者仿冒使用者。
3. 達到雙方相互認證。
Ta
g
ID
1’. Query, k
Serv
er
Data
Base
ID
Read
er
)(.3 kIDh T 
)()(.2 TR IDhkIDh 
)(.4 kIDIDh RT 
)()('.2 TR IDhkIDh 
)('.3 kIDh T 
)('.4 kIDIDh RT 
1. k
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。
