 第二年計畫目標：新型光生化反應器數學模式建立 
1. 簡介 
藻類會藉由光合作用來轉化所吸收的光源，以使之成為供給自身
生長所需能量，因此提供足量光源可以提高藻類的光合效率，是培養
藻類用的光生化反應器的成敗的重要因素。在照光培養的過程中，藻
類濃度會隨時間的增加而提高，入射到光生化反應器的光源強度也會
隨之減弱；且入射光源的強度亦會隨光生反應器內水體的深度增加而
遞減。入射光強度隨藻體濃度增加以及深度增加而減弱的現象可藉由
Lambert-Beer’s Law 來加以描述，結果如式（1）所示。從式（1）中
可清楚了解光強度在光生化反應器裡是呈現指數方式遞減。 
( ) ( )[ ]zKKCEXPIzI wbb ⋅+⋅−⋅= 0      （1） 
I (z): light intensity of location; I0: light intensity at the surface 
Cb: biomass concentration  z: length of light path 
Kb: Extinction coefficient for biomass Kw: Extinction coefficient for water 
為有效率的使用該定理，嘗試以平均光強度作為光生物反應器的
效能指標，其結果如式(2)所示。 
∫
∫ ⋅+⋅
= L
L
wbb  
av
dz
z]dz)KK[-(CI
I
0
0
0 exp
 (2) 
因為該指標與系統中目前的藻濃度具有強相關，所以必須考量藻
體利用該指標的總效率，透過此光能量的平衡反應式所推導出單位藻
 2
20m，培養體積為 18 公升。新型光生化反應器是在開放式儲存槽放
置不同尺寸的透光中空壓克力平板所組成，其裝置示意圖如圖一所
示。壓克力平板的長度、高度分別為 25、21 cm，其寬度為 5cm。 
 
(a)         (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
圖一、光生化反應器示意圖(a)俯視圖，(b)側視圖。 
3. 結果與討論 
3.1 光生化反應器 Fab值隨 biomass concentration 變化趨勢 
 結果如圖二。 
 
0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
55
60
Fab
Biomass concentration (g/L)
 傳統反應器
 改良光生化反應器 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖二、Fab值隨 biomass concentration 變化趨勢圖 
 
 4
國科會補助出席國際會議心得報告 
計畫編號：NSC95-2221-E-006-303 
會議期間：96 年 3 月 26 日至 96 年 3 月 30 日 
會議名稱中文：美國化學年會第 233 屆國際研討會 
會議名稱英文：American Chemical Society 233  National Meeting & Expositionrd  
受補助項目： 
機票費： NT $34,700 生活費： NT $41,284 註冊費： NT $5,293   
合計總金額： NT $81,277   
出國心得報告： 
近年來由於二氧化碳等會造成溫室效應的氣體排放與日俱增，引
起全球暖化現象；加上石化能源的不斷開採，在未來的數十年之間即
將耗盡等問題，於是如何尋求新且潔淨的生質能（biomass energy）以
供未來使用，乃成為一個目前大家熱烈討論的一個議題。根據國際能
源總署的統計，目前生質能是全球第四大能源，僅次於石油、煤及天
然氣。生質能供應全球約 14％的初級能源需求，也提供了開發中國家
35％ 的能源，是目前最廣泛使用的再生能源。 
而目前現今許多國家發展的生質能源種類有很多，例如：生化乙
醇(Bio-ethanol)、生化柴油(Biodiesel)等。美國總統布希更在 2007 年
的國情諮文中，呼籲訂定強制性燃料標準，期望在 2017 年能使用 350
物科技的蓬勃發展，本人認為在生質能源的開發中，採用酵素的這種
綠色製程將扮演著舉足輕重的地位。雖然目前酵素法生產 Biofuels 現
今仍無法商業化，但隨著生物科技的發達，就目前的既有的方向改善
舊有的固定化方式，將酵素與目前熱門的奈米科技結合在一起，不僅
可以提升固定化酵素的效能，也可以增加酵素的重複使用性，是相當
具有發展的潛力的一個方向。 
發表論文全文： 
Lipase-immobilized Electrospun Polyacrylonitrile Nanofibrous Membrane 
Sheng-Feng Li,1 Jyh-Ping Chen,2 and Wen-Teng Wu1 
1Department of Chemical Engineering, National Cheng Kung University,Tainan, 
Taiwan 
2Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering, Chang Gung University, 
Taoyuan, Taiwan 
INTRODUCTION 
Eletrospinning (ES) is a novel technique to fabricate nonwoven membrane 
composed of nanofibers with diameters ranging from 5 nm to 500 nm, 102 to104 
times smaller than those prepared by the traditional methods of solution or melt 
spinning. The ES process can produce polymer nanofiber under a high-voltage 
electrostatic field operated between a metallic nozzle of a syringe and a metallic 
collector. The changed polymer solution jetted from the metal needle to the grounded 
collector. In the working distance, the polymer jet elongates, solidifies, and deposits 
on the collector. The fibers are deposited in the form of a nonwoven mat onto the 
target collector through a random deposition process of projected jet of polymer 
solution. The electrospun nanofibers has high specific area and porous structure, 
which makes them excellent candidates for filtration, drug delivery carrier, tissue 
engineering, wound dressing, nano-sensors and enzyme immobilization. In this study, 
polyacrylonitrile (PAN) was chosen as the material for electrospun into the 
nanofibrous membrane (NFM) owing to the polymer’s stability and mechanical 
properties. The electrospun membrane was used for immobilization of lipase. The 
properties of PAN NFM and the activity of immobilized lipase were investigated. 
 
that of the immobilized lipase did not exhibit any loss up to 20 d when stored at 30 ℃. 
After 10 reuse cycles, the immobilized enzyme retained about 70% of its original 
specific activity. 
 
Figure 1. Immobilization of lipase onto PAN NFM with amidination reaction. 
            
            
Figure 2. FE-SEM images of eletrospun PAN nanofibrous membrane. Left: original. 
Right: lipase-immobilized. Magnification 20,000, bar = 10 μm (top). Magnification 
50,000. Bar = 100 nm (bottom). 
 
REFERENCES 
1. Ye. P.; Xu, Z.K. Biomaterials. 2006, 27, 4169. 
2. Huang, X.J.; Xu, L. S. Macromol Rapid Commun. 2006, 27, 1341. 
3. Ting, W.J.; Tung, K.Y.; Giridhar, R.; Wu, W.T. J. Mol. Catalysis B: Enzymatic, 
2006, 42, 32. 
 
億加侖的再生與替代生質能源，這幾乎是目前已定下 2012 年目標的 5
倍。替代能源的來源可以是玉米乙醇、纖維素乙醇或更先進的生化燃
料，包括生化丁醇(biobutanol)、生化柴油(biodiesel)及其他運輸能源的
替代選項。以生化柴油為例，目前生產生化柴油的方法主要共有三
種，包含有鹼製程、酸製程與酵素製程。目前工業上都是以鹼製程與
酸製程這兩種化學法為主，其缺點在於其處理過程中所產生的廢液會
造成環境的污染。因此為了減少化學方法所產生的污染造成對環境的
衝擊，近年來利用酵素製程來生產生化柴油的方式日漸受到重視。 
而在酵素製程方面，由於自由酵素本身成本較高加上又有沒法回
收再利用的疑慮，使得酵素製程的成本比其他兩種製程成本來的高，
因此導致酵素製程至今仍無法商業化。目前許多學者嚐試利用許多固
定化的方式來增加酵素的再使用性，除了可以利於回收，且可以增加
其溫度、pH 的穩定性。近幾年來更有研究將脂解酵素（Lipase）與奈
米科技結合，將酵素固定於奈米載體上，不僅可以提升增加固定上的
酵素量，並且可以提升固定化酵素的穩定性，在使用 10 次後仍殘留
70%的活性，比固定在其他材料上來的優異。 
由於生質能源是一種再生能源，與風能、太陽能一樣具有取之不
盡、用之不竭的特性，並且因使用材料為廢棄物，故兼具廢棄物的回
收處理與能源生產的雙重效益。在目前的社會中環保意識的抬頭及生
EXPERIMENTAL 
PAN with an average molecular weight of 1.5 × 105 g/mol was dissolved in DMF 
at 8 wt%. PAN solution was drawn vertically from the needle tip with an electrostatic 
force generated from the high voltage applied between the tip and a grounded 
collector. The flow rate of the polymer solution, applied voltage, and distance between 
needle and collector, and the size of the needle tip were set at 1.5 ml/h, 20.0 kV, 20.0 
cm and 18 gauge, respectively. After the solvent evaporated, the PAN nanofibers 
deposited on the collector in the form of a nonwoven mat with thickness about 100 
μm. The electrospun NFM was dried under vacuum and the morphology was observed 
by FESEM. The PAN nanofiber was activated through amidination reaction by 
activation of the nitrile groups, followed by reacting with lipase solution (from 
Candida rugosa) in 0.05 M phosphate buffer solution (pH 7.0) (Figure 1). Lipase 
activity was measured using 0.5% p-nitrophenyl palmitate (p-NPP) in ethanol as the 
substrate. The increase in absorbance at 410 nm caused by the release of p-nitrophenol 
during the hydrolysis of p-NPP was measured using a spectrophotometer. Specific 
activity was defined as the number of enzyme unit per milligram of protein. Relative 
specific activity was calculated as the ratio of specific activity of immobilized enzyme 
to that of free lipase. Protein content was estimated by Bradford method using 
Bio-Rad protein dye reagent. Bovine serum albumin was used as the standard. 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
PAN NFM could be prepared by ES and used for lipase immobilization. The 
fiber diameters of initial PAN nanofibers were uniform and within 150 to 300 nm. 
After lipase immobilization. the morphology of nanofiber did not change and the 
hydrophobic surface characteristic of NFM was modified to a hydrophilic one from 
static contact angle measurements. From FESEM observations, aggregates of enzyme 
molecules adsorbed onto the nanofiber surface were found (Figure 2). The 
lipase-immobilized NFM had high enzyme loading efficiency and high hydrolytic 
activity. The amidination reaction was used to active the nitrile groups of PAN 
materials. The efficiency of protein loading was affected by activation time and 
enzyme immobilization time. The protein loading wasquantitative after 5 h activation 
time. The amount of lipase immobilized did not increase after 1 h immobilization 
time. The ultimate tensile stress of the original NFM is 1 MP and the strain at break is 
about 30%. After lipase immobilization, the ultimate tensile stress increased 1.5 times 
but the strain at break decreased slightly. Under the optimized immobilization 
conditions, protein loading is 21.2 mg/g-material, activity loading is 40 U/g-material, 
and relative specific activity is 104% for the immobilized lipase. After mmobilization, 
the reuse and storage stability of the immobilized lipase could be enhanced. For 
storage stability, the activity of free lipase decreased rapidly during the first 5 d but 
