目   錄 
中文摘要  1  
英文摘要 1 
精簡成果報告 2 
計畫成果自評 12 
出席國際會議心得報告 13 
附錄：會議論文 15
 2 
can detect, track, and identify the activity of a 
moving object, including talking, walking, etc. 
Some related studies include [3-9]. Image 
processing technique is the primary approach 
for objects detection and tracking. However, 
three common problems are encountered for 
these approaches. 
(1) Scalability: The image processing 
technique requires a large 
computing power, especially for 
real-time processing. It may 
encounter problem when practicing 
these techniques to the UbiCam 
environment. That is why most of 
the current digital monitoring 
system still uses simple motion 
detection method for the activation 
of the recording function. 
(2) Robustness: The proposed image 
processing methods are usually 
designed for a pre-defined 
environment. Their functions may 
be influenced by the diverse 
conditions, such as cluttered 
background, occlusion of objects, 
and change in illumination. They 
also encounter problems under 
some extreme conditions, such as 
very low illumination or total 
occlusion. Moreover, the 
improvement of the robustness 
usually requires a larger computing 
power and thus decreases its 
scalability. It is a vicious circle. 
(3) Identifiability: For a wide area 
monitoring by a wide angle camera 
in the outdoor environment, the 
image of a moving object may be 
too small to identify. Although a 
pan-tilt-zoom (PTZ) camera can be 
used to take a close look at the 
moving object, it is still difficult to 
identify a moving object from 
non-front-view images. In advance, 
individual methods must be 
designed for identifying various 
objects, such as a person or a car. 
These factors causes it is very 
difficult to identify moving objects 
in a wide area based on image 
processing technique. 
On the other hand, GPS becomes the most 
popular positioning system in the outdoor 
environment since the removal of 
signal-degrading selective availability (SA) 
from GPS signals on the 1st May 2000. A 
commercial differential GPS (DPGS) can 
even provide the accuracy to less than a few 
meters. The application domains of GPS are 
very broad, such as navigation, vehicle 
security, child or elderly relative positioning, 
etc. The location information can enhance or 
extend the existing wireless services, such as 
dynamic traffic alerts, family tracking, etc. 
GPS-enabled mobile device becomes an 
important trend in the recent years. It enables 
that the GPS coordinate of a moving object is 
easily available from its carried mobile device. 
Therefore, if GPS-enabled mobile device can 
be incorporated into visual surveillance in a 
multiple camera environment, it provides a 
novel way for moving object detection and 
tracking. Such visual tracking approach is 
independent of image content. Its robustness 
or efficiency is expected higher than 
conventional image processing technique. 
However, the approach is not the replacement 
of these techniques but the expansion of their 
capabilities. For example, face recognition is a 
common approach for the identification of an 
unknown object. The image of an unknown 
object is matched with those stored in a 
database if only using the image processing 
technique. It encounters the problems on 
efficiency and scalability when it is applied to 
a large population. Oppositely, if the location 
and identification information of an unknown 
object can be acquired from its carried mobile 
device, the corresponding features of the 
identification can be retrieved from the 
database. The face recognition technique is 
simply used to verify whether the image and 
the corresponding features is match. It 
expands the capability of the face recognition 
techniques to the physical environment with a 
large population. 
 Therefore, a novel approach, called 
GODTIA (GPS-based Moving Object 
Detection, Tracking, and Identification 
Approach), is proposed in this paper. 
GODTIA is based on the 3D-coordinate 
transformation method used in the computer 
vision. The GPS coordinate of a moving 
object is transformed to the image coordinate 
of a camera after the camera is calibrated. The 
image coordinate is used to label the moving 
object on the image directly. Although the 
transformation seems trivial, the key challenge 
 4 
 
Figure 2: The GODTIA process 
2.1. TM2 transformation 
The transformation is presented as 
follows. The coordinate acquired from GPS 
receiver is in the DMS format. It is 
transformed to the format of WGS84 (World 
Geodetic System 1984) coordinate system. 
The WGS84 coordinate is then transformed to 
a TM2 (2-degree Transverse Mercator) 
coordinate. Assume the WGS84 coordinate 
transformed from the DMS coordinate is 
represented as (φ, λ) and the TM2 coordinate 
is represented as (x, y), the transformation is 
according to the Equation (1). 
......2sin.......)
1024
45
32
3
8
3(
.......)
256
5
64
3
4
1[(
)(cos
cos'
tan
sin1
1
'
6356752,6378137,121,999.0
]}
720
)'3306005861(
24
)495(
2
[tan*{
]
120
)'5872185(
6
)1([
642
642
0
22
2
22
2
2
2
2
22
2
00
622
422
0
5223
0
+−−−−
−−−−=
−=
=
=
−
=
−
=
−
=
==°==
−++−
+
++−
++=
−++−
+
+−
+=
φ
φ
λλφ
φ
φ
φ
λ
φ
eee
eee
aM
A
eC
T
e
a
N
e
e
e
a
ba
e
mbmaK
where
AeCTT
ACCTA
NMKy
AeCTTACTANKx
 
(1)
 
 
2.2. Image coordinate transformation 
The image coordinate transformation is 
based on the method proposed by R. Y. Tsai in 
1987 [12-14]. It is popular used in the field of 
computer vision. The principle of Tsai’s 
method is shown in Figure 3. A set of five 
coordinate points, i.e., mappings, are 
established firstly. Each mapping is composed 
by one 3D world coordinate and one image 
coordinate. In GODTIA, the 3D world 
coordinate is a TM2 coordinate transformed 
from GPS coordinate. The unit of an image 
coordinate is pixels with respect to the 
original point on the left-top corner. They are 
described in details as below: 
(1) (xi , yi , zi): It is a 3D world 
coordinate. There are only x and y 
values in TM2 coordinate. 
Therefore, the value of z-axis is set 
as zero, e.g., (220951.720, 
2662740.738, 0). 
(2) (ui , vi): It is a point on the camera 
image, e.g., (323, 244). The 
original point (0, 0) is on the 
left-top corner. 
 
Figure 3: The 3D world points and 
corresponding 2D image points for the camera 
calibration 
In order to establish the coordinate 
mappings, a person carries a GPS-enabled 
mobile device and walks into the FOV of a 
camera. The TM2 coordinate transformed 
from the GPS coordinate and the image 
coordinate are recorded simultaneously. The 
person walks to five different positions in the 
FOV of the camera and five coordinate 
mappings are established in the same way.  
A mapping example is shown in Figure 4. 
The TM2 coordinate is (220919.545, 
2662670.167) and the corresponding 
coordinate is (135, 253). 
 
Figure 4: A mapping example of TM2 and 
image coordinates for camera calibration 
 
When the mappings of a camera are 
established, two parameters for the 
transformation from TM2 coordinate to image 
coordinate are computed according to Tsai’s 
method. They are intrinsic and extrinsic 
 6 
positions. The performance is influenced by 
two factors, the accuracy of GPS receiver and 
the skyview of the experimental site. 
Therefore, two different GPS receivers and 
two experimental sites are chosen in this 
experiment. The parameter settings are listed 
in Table 1. 
Table 1: The setting of the fixed position experiment 
Setting 
Parameters 
A B 
Pocket PC 
(GPS Receiver) 
HP iPAQ hw6515  
(GL20k and GL-LN22+A-GPS) 
HP iPAQ hw6515  
(Leadtek 9553X-SiRF Star III+DGPS) 
Site Limited Skyview Good Skyview 
A tool was also implemented on the 
Pocket PC for receiving the GPS coordinate 
and transforming to TM2 coordinate. Its 
screen shot is shown in Figure 7. The user can 
select the correct serial port and baud rate and 
then clicks the “Start” button, the real-time 
GPS coordinate and corresponding TM2 
coordinate is transformed and displayed on 
the screen. The “Connection” and 
“Disconnection” buttons are implemented 
later for the continuous tracking experiment.  
 
Figure 7: The screen shot of a tool on Pocket 
PC 
The following experimental steps are 
preceded for every combination of GPS 
receiver and experimental site: 
(1) Camera calibration: One person 
takes a Pocket PC with GPS 
receiver and stays at a fixed 
position. After the GPS receiver is 
activated, ten real-time TM2 
coordinates are recorded for every 
30 seconds. Another person saves 
the real-time image and gets the 
image coordinate at the fixed 
position. The average of the ten 
TM2 coordinates and the 
corresponding image coordinate is 
deems as one calibration point. The 
above process is repeated until five 
calibration points are collected. 
(2) Fixed position test: One person 
stays at a random-chosen position 
but not those for the camera 
calibration. The real-time TM2 
coordinate is recorded and the 
real-time image is saved 
simultaneously. The above process 
is repeated at ten different 
positions. 
(3) Computation of LE: Every 
recorded TM2 coordinate is 
transformed to image coordinate 
( )',' vu  according to GODTIA. The 
actual coordinate ( )',' avau  is also 
acquired manually from the 
corresponding image. Then, the LE 
is computed from ( )',' vu  and 
( )',' avau . 
Table 2: The locating errors of the fixed position experiment 
 
Site 
GPS 
Receiver 
Site A - limited skyview Site B - good skyview 
No. (u’, v’) (au’, av’) LE (pixels) (u’, v’) (au’, av’) 
LE 
(pixels) 
1 (253, 94) (288, 436) 344 (1048, 515) (60, 182) 1043 
2 (454, 259) (455, 402) 143 (439, 254) (171, 252) 268 
Type A 
HP iPAQ  
hw6515 
(GL20k and 
GL-LN22+ 
A-GPS) 3 (314, 137) (367, 320) 191 (484, 227) (257, 308) 241 
 8 
1 111/235 75 1 40 
2 101/219 69 5 31 1. Mio A201 (SiRF Star III) 
3 95/207 109 1 45 
38 
1 98/229 238 3 76 
2 94/212 130 15 58 2. HP iPAQ hw6515 (GL20k and GL-LN22+A-GPS) 3 85/202 134 4 50 
62 
1 87/216 131 2 40 
2 94/212 205 9 77 3. Mio A201 (Leadtek 9553X-SiRF Star III+DGPS) 3 91/212 290 8 55 
58 
The experimental site and the 
deployment of two cameras are shown in 
Figure 8. The pre-defined path is marked with 
the blue-dashed line. It starts at the “Car Lot” 
and ends at the “Design Square”. The skyview 
of both sites is good. However, the path goes 
through the site with limited skyview in the 
first experiment. The design is mainly to 
understand the possible consequence when 
the accuracy of GPS receiver is changed over 
time in the moving period. 
 
Figure 8: The experimental site and the views 
of two cameras 
A server tool was also implemented for 
recording the experimental data. The client 
tool is enhanced to transmit the real-time TM2 
coordinate to the server tool via the wirelss 
network. The pre-defined name of a moving 
object is also transmitted by the client tool. 
The server tool labels the moving object on a 
2D map according to the TM2 coordinate. In 
addition, the real-time image with a red circle 
and a name is displayed on the server tool 
simultaneously when the object is detected in 
the FOV of a camera. The center of the circle 
is the image coordinate transformed by 
GODTIA and its radius is 50 pixels. The 
moving object can be found in the circle when 
the locating error (LE) is within 50 pixels. The 
received TM2 coordinates and captured 
camera images are stored separately for the 
computation of LE and the playback of the 
moving trace. A screen shot of the server tool 
is shown in Figure 9. 
 
Figure 9: A screen shot of the server tool 
A part of the camera images in the 
moving trace is shown in Figure 10. These 
images illustrate that the moving object can 
be labeled in the red circle according to the 
coordinate transformed by GODTIA. It is 
easily for people to recognize the moving 
object. Especially, a moving object can still be 
tracked even the object is totally occluded. 
Such example is shown in Figure 10 (e). 
The experiment is repeated three times 
for every mobile device. When the recorded 
data is playback and the checkbox “Trace” of 
the server tool is checked, the moving trace is 
displayed on the screen as shown in Figure 11. 
It is close to the pre-defined path in Figure 8. 
    
(a)               (b)              (c)               (d) 
 10 
GPS receiver. It differs from our 
expectation that the LE of the third 
device with a DGPS receiver 
should be the smallest. After 
checking the process and recorded 
data, it is found that the refresh 
speed of GPS coordinate is too 
slow. The GPS coordinate is 
unchanged when the person has 
moved a long distance. It causes LE 
is increased as time until the 
coordinate is refreshed. A DGPS 
receiver may require a longer 
computation time than a general 
GPS and thus increases the refresh 
speed. If the refresh speed of a 
DGPS is short enough, the LE 
should be smaller than that of a 
general GPS receiver. 
(2) The overall LEs of the first and 
second devices with a general GPS 
receive are 38 and 62 pixels, 
respectively. It is acceptable error 
for the GODTIA operated on a 
general and popular GPS receiver 
when a camera is calibrated by 
using the DGPS receiver. It shows 
that GODTIA is useful in the 
practical environment.  
 
3.4. Discussion 
The above experimental results and 
demonstrations show that GODTIA can 
provide a novel way to moving object 
detection, tracking, and identification. 
However, some issues are found and 
discussed as follows: 
(1) Synchronization of the GPS 
coordinate and the camera image: 
The performance of GODTIA is 
influenced by the synchronization 
of the GPS coordinate and the 
camera image. If the acquisition 
time of a GPS coordinate and the 
capture time of a camera image are 
synchronized, it is useful to reduce 
the LE. However, a GPS coordinate 
is usually delay caused by the 
network transmission. A simple 
timestamp mechanism can be used 
for the synchronization of the 
coordinate and image. 
(2) Real-time tracking of high-speed 
moving objects: Current 
experiments focus on low-speed 
moving objects. If GODTIA is used 
to track high-speed moving objects, 
a delay GPS coordinate cannot be 
used to label the moving object 
since the object may have moved 
outside the camera image. A 
time-shift technique which is 
popular used in digital TV software 
seems suitable for solving this 
problem. The playback of a 
real-time image is delayed until 
desired coordinate is received. The 
delay time is adaptable depending 
on the delay of GPS coordinate.  
According to the above discussions, 
GODTIA can be the foundation for 
developing a new visual surveillance service. 
 
4. Conclusion and future works 
According to trend of the GPS receiver 
becoming an integral part of a mobile device, 
the locations of moving objects can be 
acquired easily in the near future. The GPS 
coordinate is incorporated into the visual 
tracking and a novel approach, called 
GODTIA, is proposed in this paper. The 
image coordinate transformed from a GPS 
coordinate is used to label an object on the 
image of a camera. The refresh of GPS 
coordinate enables the tracking of a moving 
object. The experimental results show that 
GODITA is practical and robust under various 
conditions. Besides, its computation effort is 
very low; its scalability is good for practicing 
to the real world. The future works are listed 
below: 
(1) Precise labeling of moving objects: 
A moving object is unable to label 
precisely simply according to its 
inaccurate GPS coordinate. Some 
feature-based approaches can be 
used for precise labeling. When 
there is only one moving object 
within the circle, i.e., a specific 
distance from the transformed 
image coordinate, the features of 
the object can be extracted from its 
image attributes. The features can 
then be used to distinguish this 
object from the others when there 
are many objects within the circle.  
(2) An automatic calibration 
mechanism: Although the 
 12 
計畫成果自評 
本計畫成果有兩個部分，第一個部分的研究成果為：「A Location-Dependent Data Encryption 
Approach for Enhancing Mobile Information Security」，已經於 96/2 發表於 The Ninth International 
Conference on Advanced Communication Technology (ICACT 2007)，第二個部分如本結案報告書所
列出之研究成果，此部分的成果經整理後已經投稿至 Journal of Information Science and 
Engineering，這些研究成果完全與原計畫的內容相符，達成原計畫內容預期的目標。 
而經過本計畫的研究之後，針對目前著重以影像處理為主的移動物體偵測與追蹤技術，發
現可以利用移動物體相關的資訊，例如：物體的 GPS 座標，可以有效地強化這些影像處理技
術的實用性與效用，後續將繼續針對相關議題進行深入研究。 
 14 
多的因素導致失效或者回報錯誤的資訊，如：硬體錯誤、環境干擾或者電池耗盡等。因此
作者考慮系統的錯誤警示以及偵測疏漏來定義監測品質，並且建立兩種 fault models 來針對
其定義的監測品質來進行量測，其結果說明計算出來的監測品質確實可以針對未來在監測
節點部署上提供一個有效的指標。 
另幾位韓國學者 H. Lee, J. Y. Lee 與 J. W. Cho 則是針對隨意網路(MANET)提出一個多重路
徑的方法，這個方法主要結合在 MAC Protocol 中，由於一般 MANET 中為了資料的傳輸需
要建立一條從 source 到 destination 的 path，但是這條路徑常常因為節點是移動的狀態下而
導致中斷，因為對於 MANET 而言路徑的 recovery 是一個很嚴重的 overhead，而其中一個
solution 則是一次建立多重路徑，而這位作者則是將這樣的多重路徑包含在 MAC protocol
中，因此在封包傳遞的過程中即使發生路徑中斷，也可以從封包資訊中取得另一條路徑來
進行傳遞。基本上這樣的概念似乎可行，不過由於節點在動態的狀況下，這些多重路徑都
是在同一時刻找出來的，這也使得萬一某一條路徑發生中斷時，當時找出的其他路徑可能
也是中斷的機率增加，這是 MANET 在這方面方法的研究上的弱點，其實有其他更好的方
法已經被提出來，作者可以試圖結合其他的方法到 MAC 協定上，可能會比目前的研究成
果更能展示其方法的效用。 
還有幾位大陸的學者 H. Yang 等人則是提出個人化行動導向的網路服務製作系統，其提出
一個用於 Web Service 的 MoEOWL-S 語言，這個語言可以定義行動環境資訊，包含語意領
域、資料型態領域、服務領域以及使用者領域，利用不同的領域所得到以 MoEOWL-S 語言
所定義的環境資訊，可以使得個人化的網路服務是可以自動地推理並製作出來，而且可以
自動地產生所需的測試個案，這可以使得未來要針對行動使用者的所在環境狀況，來提供
適合的個人化服務是有可能的。也瞭解到大陸方面確實在相關研究已經逐漸有許多具有國
際水準的主題被完成，對於台灣或者世界各國的研究學者而言，大陸方面的研究實力在未
來十年將形成一股新的力量，實在不容忽視。 
除了上面這些研究之外，在會議過程中還有許多的研究成果都值得深入思考，確實提升了
個人的研究思維，讓個人朝向更重要、更好與更完整的研究議題來前進。 
 16 
2. Related Work 
 The popular of indoor or outdoor positioning 
devices cause the location-based service (LBS) is 
becoming important. Systems can provide LBSs 
according to the location of users. Current LBSs can be 
classified into four categories: emergency service, 
information service, tracking service, and entertainment 
service [9]. Emergency services include safety alarm, 
public safety, and so on. For example, Y. Zhang et al. 
proposed location-based keys for the sensor network 
[10]. It was an authentication scheme between sensor 
nodes. Information services include the news, sport, 
weather, shopping, yellow page, and so on [11][12]. 
Tracking services include the property, military, cargo 
tracking, and so on. M. Gruteser et al. discussed the 
privacy protection problems related to the tracking 
service [13]. A disclosure-control algorithm was 
proposed to hide users’ position in sensitive area. 
Entertainment services include dating, game playing, 
and so on. N. Eagle et al. designed a Bluetooth access 
point, called BlueDar [14]. It can interchange 
information with the mobile devices of the passing 
passengers. If the passenger predefines the demands of 
friends, such as age, hobby, BlueDar can match his 
demands with the collected information of the 
passengers. J. Xu et al. proposed a D-tree structure for 
the query planning of LBSs [15]. The above researches 
mainly focus on the promotion of LBSs but not on the 
data security in the mobile environment. 
Besides, a data encryption algorithm by using the 
GPS coordinate, called LDEA algorithm, was proposed 
in our previous research [16]. LDEA is mainly to 
include the latitude/longitude coordinate in the data 
encryption and thus to restrict the location of data 
decryption. A toleration distance (TD) is designed to 
overcome the inaccuracy and inconsistent problem of 
GPS receiver. However, the asymmetric data encryption 
method used in LDEA is not suitable for the mobile 
device because of its high computing load. Therefore, a 
new schema without using the asymmetric method is 
designed and presented in this paper. 
 
3.  Our Schema 
The scenario of the proposed approach is presented 
in Figure 1. There are two phases: register and 
operation phases. Firstly, a mobile client requests a 
random seed and a MAC function C from the 
information server in the register phase. The 
information server records the issued random seed and 
the function C for each individual client. They are very 
important for ensuring data security in the operation 
phase. So, they must be transmitted under a secure 
channel, such as Intranet or VPN (virtual private 
network). The random seed is the initial value of 
one-way hash function, such as MD5. A series of 
session keys is generated according to the random seed. 
When the mobile client is moving under an insecure 
channel in the operation phase, the mobile client 
submits a target coordinate before message 
transmission.  
The information server sends the message 
encrypted by using the coordinate and a specific session 
key. The session key is changed for every session. 
Since the information server and the mobile client own 
the same set of session keys, a key synchronization 
process is also designed for information server to 
identify the correct session key. When a secure channel 
is available for a mobile client, the client can request a 
new random seed and MAC function C. The proposed 
approach can provide a novel location-dependent data 
encryption for mobile information system. 
 
Figure 1: The scenario of the proposed approach 
In advance, the register phase and the key 
synchronization of operation phase is presented in 
Figure 2. When a random seed and a MAC function C 
is transmitted to a mobile client. The same series of 
session keys is generated by using a one-way hash 
function on the both side. One session key Ki is the 
input of hash function to generate the next key Ki+1. 
The principle of one-way hash function prevents the 
computation of input value from the output value. 
Therefore, the usage order of the keys is reversely with 
the generation direction. When a client starts a new 
session, a new key is used in the period of the session. 
So, the key is changed for every session in a reverse 
order. 
 
Figure 2: The process of the register phase and key 
synchronization of operation phase 
 However, some problems may cause the key is 
not synchronized on the both side, e.g., a session is not 
closed normally. A key synchronization process is 
designed to ensure the key of both sides is the same. 
The process is shown in Figure 3.  
 
Figure 3: The key synchronization process 
 18 
except the username/password. 
 
References 
1. M. Aikawa, K. Takaragi, S. Furuya, and M. 
Sasamoto, “A Lightweight Encryption Method 
Suitable for Copyright Protection,” IEEE Trans. on 
Consumer Electronics, Vol. 44, No.3, 1998, pp. 
902-910. 
2. T. Jamil, “The Rijndael Algorithm,” IEEE 
Potentials, Vol. 23, Issue 2, 2004, pp. 36-38. 
3. J. Jiang, “Pipeline Algorithms of RSA Data 
Encryption and Data Compression,” Proc. of IEEE 
Int’l Conf. on Comm. Technology (ICCT’96), Vol. 2, 
5-7 May 1996, pp. 1088-1091. 
4. S. Lian, J. Sun, Z. Wang, and Y. Dai, “A Fast Video 
Encryption Scheme Based-on Chaos,” Proc. of the 
8th IEEE Int’l Conf. on Control, Automation, 
Robotics, and Vision (ICARCV 2004), Vol. 1, 6-9 
Dec. 2004, pp. 126-131. 
5. M. McLoone and J. V. McCanny, “A High 
Performance FPGA Implementation of DES,” Proc. 
of IEEE Workshop on Signal Processing Systems 
(SiPS 2000), 11-13 Oct. 2000, pp. 374-383. 
6. M. Shaar, M. Saeb, M. Elmessiery, and U. Badwi, 
“A Hybrid Hiding Encryption Algorithm (HHEA) 
for Data Communication Security,” Proc. of the 
46th IEEE Int’l Midwest Symposium on Circuits 
and Systems (MWSCAS’03), Vol. 1, 27-30 Dec. 
2003, pp. 476-478. 
7. M. E. Smid and D. K. Branstad, “Data Encryption 
Standard: Past and Future,” Proc. IEEE, Vol. 76, 
No. 5, May 1988, pp. 550-559. 
8. Y. P. Zhang, J. Sun, and X. Zhang, “A Stream 
Cipher Algorithm Based on Conventional 
Encryption Techniques,” Proc. of IEEE Canadian 
Conference on Electrical and Computer 
Engineering (CCECE 2004) Vol. 2, 2-5 May 2004, 
pp. 649-652. 
9. D. Mohapatra and S. B. Suma, “Survey of Location 
based Wireless Services,” Proc. of IEEE Int’l Conf. 
on Personal Wireless Comm. (ICPWC 2005), 23-25 
Jan. 2005, pp. 358-362. 
10. Y. Zhang, W. Liu, W. Lou, and Y. Fang, “Securing 
Sensor Networks with Location-Based Keys,” Proc. 
of IEEE Wireless Comm. and Networking Conf. on 
Comm. Society (WCNC 2005), Vol. 4, 13-17 March 
2005, pp. 1909-1914. 
11. C. Becker and F. Durr, “On Location Models for 
Ubiquitous Computing,” Personal and Ubiquitous 
Computing, Vol. 9, Issue 1, Jan. 2005. 
12. E. Toye, R. Sharp, A. Madhayapeddy, and D. Scott, 
“Using Smart Phones to Access Site-Specific 
Services,” IEEE Pervasive Computing, Vol. 4, 
Issue 2, Jan.-March 2005, pp. 60-66. 
13. M. Gruteser and X. Liu, “Protecting Privacy in 
Continuous Location-Tracking Applications,” 
IEEE Security & Privacy Magazine, Vol. 2, Issue 2, 
March-April 2004, pp. 28-34. 
14. N. Eagle and A. Pentland, “Social Serendipity: 
Mobilizing Social Software,” IEEE Pervasive 
Computing, Vol. 4, Issue 2, Jan.-March 2005, pp. 
28-34. 
15. J. Xu, B. Zheng, W. C. Lee, and D. L. Lee, “The 
D-Tree: An Index Structure for Planner Point 
Queries in Location-Based Wireless Services,” 
IEEE Trans. On Knowledge and Data Engineering, 
Vol. 16, No. 12, Dec. 2004. 
16. H. C. Liao, Y. H. Chao, and C. Y. Hsu, “A Novel 
Approach for Data Encryption Depending on User 
Location,” The Tenth Pacific Asia Conference on 
Information Systems (PACIS 2006), 5-9 July 2006. 
 
 
 
