行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫進度報告 
【先進車用電子系統開發平台總計畫】 
子計畫三：適用於車用電子系統之溫度與功耗共同評估方法研究(I) 
 
中文題目:系統晶片溫度與功耗共同評估平台 
英文題目: SoC Power-Thermal Co-Simulation Framework  
 
計畫編號：NSC 99-2220-E-007-020 
執行期限：99 年 8 月 1 日至 100 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：清華大學電機系 黃錫瑜 (教授) 
計畫參與學生：柯智偉 丁若婷  曾梓晏  徐振翔  林郁翔  翁嘉謙 
 
 
中文摘要 
在本論文中，我們綜合介紹適合【系統晶片設計】之【功耗建模】與【功耗分析】
四個軟體工具： (1) POWERBRICK，包含漏電流在內的標準單元庫和記憶體編譯器的功
耗建模軟體，(2) POWERMIXER，RTL/閘級的功率估計軟體，(3) POWERMIXERIP，基於 IP 
【矽智財】和【處理器】 的功率模型生成器，以及功率估計軟體，和 (4) POWERDEPOT，
ESL【電子系統階層】的功率估計工具。這些高度自動化的工具，除了能夠大大減少
SOC 設計功率分析時間外，還能與【溫度估算軟體】結合，進行【功耗與溫度的共
同模擬】，一方面了解一個【系統晶片設計】再執行某一個應用程式之下的更精確
的功耗與溫度，另一方面預測是否會有【熱狂奔】等造成晶片過熱而故障的可能性。 
中文關鍵詞：功耗建模，功耗分析，溫度估算，功耗與溫度的共同模擬，熱狂奔，
系統晶片設計 
ABSTRACT 
In this paper, we introduce a systematic power analysis framework for SoC designs using bottom-up 
power modeling integrated with top-down power estimation. Four power analysis tools have been realized: 
(1) PowerBrick, a power characterization tool to construct power libraries for standard cell library and 
memory compiler, (2) PowerMixer, an RTL/gate-level power estimator for large logic design, (3) 
PowerMixerIP, an IP-based power model builder to build power models for general IPs as well as 
processor IPs, and (4) PowerDepot, an ESL power estimation tool to enable super-fast system-level SoC 
power estimation. Equipped with these highly automatic tools, one is able to drastically reduce the effort 
and time spent in building the power analysis environment for SoC designs. The simulation speedup can 
be up to 2,400X comparing with traditional simulation methodology, while retaining very high accuracy. 
We also introduce its application to a power-thermal co-simulation process, by which one can predict more 
accurately the steady-state temperature of an IC in full operation. 
RT-level, IP-level, to system level. With this framework, one will be able to construct the power libraries 
for standard cell library and memory compiler, perform RTL/gate-level power estimation, build the IP-
based power models for IP designs, and run ESL power estimation in the SoC platform. Finally, two extra 
features are built on top of this framework – (1) a super-fast application-oriented power estimation 
program by just examining the software applications running on a multi-core SoC, and (2) a unified a 
power-thermal co-simulation system, under which one can obtain more realistic and more accurate values 
of estimated power and temperature. 
2. 研究方法: OVERALL FRAMEWORK 
As shown in Fig. 1, we have developed four power analysis tools: (1) PowerBrick: the power 
characterization tool for building the power libraries for standard cells and memory compiler, (2) 
PowerMixer: the RTL and gate-level power estimator that can quickly and accurately calculate the power 
consumption of a logic design, (3) PowerMixerIP: the IP-based power model builder for constructing the 
IP-level power model for IP designs and performing IP-based power simulation for the SoC platform, and 
(4) PowerDepot: the ESL power analysis tool to enhance the SystemC with power estimation capability. 
The more detailed introductions are given in the following sub-sections. 
 
PowerMixer
(RTL & Gate-Level Power Estimator)
PowerMixerIP
(IP-Based Power Model Builder)
(IP-Based Power Simulator)
PowerDepot
(ESL Power Profiler)
(Whole-Chip Power Profiler)
PowerBrick
(Power Characterization Tool 
for Std. Cell Lib. & Memory)
Layout
System Level
 
Fig. 1: Our power analysis framework. 
 
2.1 PowerBrick: Power Characterization 
 
In the power characterization process for standard cell library, the input is the transistor schematic in 
SPICE format of each standard library cell. We first generate training patterns as the stimuli for each cell. 
Then, we invoke HSPICE simulator and apply the input stimuli to perform the transistor-level power 
simulation for each cell under various conditions. After the HSPICE simulation, we gather the accurate 
power consumption information under various input transition and output loading conditions to construct 
power models for each cell. As for the power characterization for memory compiler, we apply an 
extrapolation-based method combined with MUX-oriented power models to speed up the characterization 
process and enhance the model accuracy [12]. In the flow of using PowerBrick, the user can specify the 
PVT settings for the targeted power library, meaning that the effect of process corner, voltage, and 
temperature on power consumption can be taken into account. It is known that the leakage power can grow 
dramatically with the temperature. Thus, we further develop a temperature-aware leakage power modeling 
methodology using a segmented exponential power model for characterizing the leakage power of both 
standard cells and memory macros [14]. 
Once the power models of various IP designs have been built, the user can invoke PowerMixerIP again 
to run IP-based power simulation for the SoC platform. As depicted in Fig. 4, during this process, the 
inputs files include the gate-level SoC netlist, the power models files (.PMF), the VCD file, and the 
standard cell power library. The VCD file can be essentially dumped, which means only the key signals of 
the IP need to be recorded in the VCD file. Hence, the VCD file size can be greatly deduced so as to speed 
up the simulation process. The standard cell power library is used to calculate the power consumption of 
the logic cells which has not been built as a power model such as glue logic. 
 
μProcessor
(3)  Essential VCD
(1) SoC Netlist (2) IP Power Models (.PMF) 
Cache Bus DMA ASICs
……
(4) Std. Cell
Power LibraryPowerMixer
IP
(IP‐Based Power Simulation)
SoC Power 
Profile  
Fig. 4: IP-based power simulation flow. 
 
2.4 PowerDepot: ESL Power Analysis 
 
The power models generated by PowerMixerIP can be integrated into the ESL platform. Then, by re-
running the ESL simulation, the power profile of the ESL system can be produced. As shown in Fig. 5, 
there are three steps in this process: (1) Power monitor generation, (2) Power monitor insertion, and (3) 
ESL re-simulation. The power monitor is implemented as a SystemC module used to monitor the power 
consumption of the IP module in the ESL platform. The PowerDepot first reads the power model files 
produced by PowerMixerIP and the ESL-to-HW name-mapping file, which indicates the mapping of key 
signal names and module names between ESL and gate-level/RTL, to generate the power monitors 
automatically. Then, each power monitor is inserted into the SystemC module of each corresponding IP in 
the ESL platform. Finally, the SystemC-based ESL platform is re-compiled and re-simulated to produce 
the power profile of each IP as well as the power accumulation of the whole ESL system. 
 
PowerDepot
Power
Monitors
IP Power
Models
ESL Platform
Power 
Monitor 
Generation
Power 
Monitor 
Insertion
Name Map File
ESL  Re-
SimulationPower Profile
 
Fig. 5: ESL power analysis flow. 
 
3. 研究方法:  QUICK POWER ESTIMATION OF APPLICATION SW 
4.  
Instead of integrating the IP-based power models into the ESL platform as we discussed in Sec 2.4, we 
can also generate a standalone C program to do the power estimation of some application software running 
iterations is less than the threshold and the maximum temperature of two consecutive iterations are the 
same, the design is assumed to have reached its steady-state temperature and the loop is terminated. 
Otherwise, it enters the thermal analysis phase. In general, our temperature-aware power estimation can be 
linked with any thermal analysis too via inter-process communication mechanism. In our experiments, we 
link with HotSpot [7]. The simulation loop will continue until the convergence condition is reached. After 
the loop has been terminated, the co-simulation program outputs the final power profile and thermal profile. 
 
Thermal Analysis
netlist
VCD
DEF
Temperature‐aware 
Power Library
Each Cell’s 
Temperature
Temperature 
Iteration=0?
Yes
No
Converged?
Power Profile
Yes
No
Thermal Profile
LEFInitial 
Temperature
Thermal Library
Temperature‐
aware Power 
Estimation
Thermal Analysis
Thermal 
Runaway?
No
Yes
Interrupted
Each Cell’s PowerPowerMixer
 
Fig. 7: Power-thermal co-simulation flow. 
 
6. 實驗結果 
 
As mentioned earlier, we have implemented four power analysis tools, including PowerBrick, 
PowerMixer, PowerMixerIP, and PowerDepot. These tools can well fit into a typical commercial design 
flow. 
Table 1 shows the accuracy comparison between PowerMixer and the measured chip power of two 
industrial processor designs. AndesCore_1 is a high-performance low-power compact single-issue 
processor core provided by Andes Technology. The ARM processor is evaluated on a partner site. Note 
that the netlist version of AndesCore_1 used for power estimation was synthesized with a low VT library. 
The final tapeout netlist went through a regular VT cell replacement on all non-critical path cells for 
further power reduction. Therefore, the power numbers are lower on real silicon.  
 
Table 1: Accuracy of PowerMixer. 
Design Measured Power (mW/MHz) 
PowerMixer
(mW/MHz) Error 
AndesCore_1 0.27 (tape-out version) 0.32* - 
ARM 0.38 0.39 2.6% 
*The version of netlist is different. 
 
The accuracy and time comparisons of IP-based power simulation with gate-level power simulation are 
given in Table 2. The AES design is a symmetric-key crypto IP. The PACDSP processor is from [9]. 
AndesCore_2 is another high performance processor design from Andes Technology that is different from 
AndesCore_1. We use general IP modeling strategy for AES design, stage-accurate model for PACDSP 
and AndesCore_2, and instruction-level model for 8051 processor, respectively. The clock rates of AES, 
PACDSP, AndesCore_2, and 8051 are 50 MHz, 240 MHz, 533 MHz, and 1 MHz, respectively. Since 
AndesCore_2 is clocked at higher frequency, thus its power values are much higher. The run time of 
AndesCore_2 is longer because the test cases used are larger and the test case run time is much longer. 
Experimental results show that PowerMixer achieves very high accuracy comparing with the measurement 
results of several industrial processor designs. The simulation results for the AXI system of PAC-Duo 
platform even reveal the great benefits of efficient and accurate ESL power analysis brought by 
PowerMixerIP and PowerDepot. With the capability of temperature-aware power characterization by 
PowerBrick, one can do both power and thermal analysis more accurately through power-thermal co-
simulation by considering the temperature effects. 
 
致謝 
The authors would like to thank Andes Technology Corporation for their kindness in providing the 
AndesCore designs as test cases in our experiments, and also thank Prof. Cheng-Wen Wu and his students 
of National Tsing-Hua University, Taiwan, for providing the AES design, and CIC for providing some 
third-party EDA tools needed for the experiments. 
 
 
參考文獻 
[1] R. B. Atitallah, S. Niar, and J.-L. Dekeyser, “MPSoC Power Estimation Framework at Transaction Level 
Modeling,” Proc. of Int'l Conf. on Microelectronics, pp. 245-248, Dec. 2007. 
[2] N. Bansal, K. Lahiri, A. Raghunathan, S.T. Chakradhar, “Power Monitors: a Framework for System-Level 
Power Estimation Using Heterogeneous Power Models,” in Proc. of Int. conf. VLSI Design, pp. 579-585, 
2005. 
[3] A. Bogliolo, L. Benini, and B. Ricco, “Power Estimation of Cell-Based CMOS Circuits,” in Proc. of 33rd 
Design Automation Conf., pp. 433-438, 1996. 
[4] Sudodh Gupta, Farid N. Najm, “Analytical Models for RTL Power Estimation of Combinational and 
Sequential Circuits,” IEEE Trans. on CAD, vol. 19, pp. 808-814, July 2000. 
[5] C.-W. Hsu, J.-L. Liao, J.-C. Yeh, J.-J. Chen, S.-Y. Huang, and J.-J. Liou, “Memory-aware Power Modeling 
for PAC DSP Core,” Proc. of Asia Symp. on Quality Electronic Design , pp. 319-324, July 2009. 
[6] S.-Y. Huang, K.-T. Cheng, and T.-C. Lee, “A Novel Methodology for Transistor-level Power Simulation,” in 
Proc. of Int’l Symposium on Lower Power Electronic Design, pp. 67-72, 1996. 
[7] W. Huang, S. Ghosh, S. Velusamy, K. Sankaranarayanan,  K. Skadron, and M. R. Stan, "HotSpot: a Compact 
Thermal Modeling Methodology for Early-Stage VLSI design," IEEE Trans. on Very Large Scale Integration 
(VLSI) Systems, pp. 501- 513, May 2006. 
[8] L. Ikhwan, K. Hyunsuk, Y. Peng, Y. Sungjoo, E.-Y. Chung, K.-M. Choi, J.-T. Kong, and S.-K. Eo, 
“PowerViP: SoC Power Estimation Framework at Transaction Level,” Proc. of Asia and South Pacific 
Design Automation Conf., pp. 8, Jan. 2006. 
[9] ITRI, “PAC Duo SoC Specification,” http://pac.itri.org.tw/. 
[10] International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors, 2009. 
[11] F. Klein, G. Araujo, R. Azevedo, R. Leao, and L. C. V. dos Santos, “An Efficient Framework for High-level 
Power Exploration,” Proc. of Midwest Symp. on Circuits and Systems, pp. 1046-1049, Aug. 2007. 
[12] T.-Y. Tai, “Power Modes Classification for Dual-Port SRAM Based on MUX-Oriented Power Modeling with 
Leakage Issue,” M.S. Thesis, National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan, Jan. 2009. 
[13] V. Tiwari, S. Malik, and A. Wolfe, “Power Analysis of Embedded Software: A First Step towards Software 
Power Minimization,” IEEE Trans. on VLSI Systems, Vol. 2, No. 4, pp. 437-445, Dec. 1994. 
[14] C.-K. Tseng, C.-C. Weng, S.-C. Fang, J.-J. Chen, and S.-Y. Huang, "Black-Box Leakage Power Modeling for 
Cell Library and SRAM Compiler," Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Design, Automation, and Test in Europe (DATE), 
March 2011. 
無研發成果推廣資料 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之
成果如辦理學術活
動、獲得獎項、重要
國際合作、研究成果
國際影響力及其他
協助產業技術發展
之 具 體 效 益 事 項
等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本計畫成果已透過另一個產學合作案 , 於開發完成後與【兆心科技】之功率估算
軟體 PowerMixer 結合， 
未來將會推廣到業界使用。 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
