 2 Copyright © 1996 by ASME 
respective γ values in the phenomenon of counter jet. These 
results revealed an increasing γ for a smaller rebound height, 
and a shorter time of collapse. 
Best (27) introduced a numerical simulation method for the 
process of bubble collapse. Tong et al. (32) presented the 
simulation of the flow field of bubble collapse at some different 
positions. In their analysis, it appeared that no counter jet was 
formed when the bubble collapsed in a range of 0.6 <γ < 1. 
Instead, a splash would be produced after the impinged jet 
penetrated the bubble surface and subsequently hit the solid 
boundary. The pressure generated by the splash could have 
considerable influence on the boundary. The first experimental 
evidence of such an effect was based on the pressure 
measurements by Shaw et al. (33). Brujan et al. (34) used high-
speed camera to present a series of images of the toroidal 
bubble collapse with the splash located in the range betweenγ
=1.1and 0.9. This result was compared to the numerical 
simulations. Lindau and Lauterborn (16) also presented a series 
of experimental results regarding the splash in order to obtain 
an agreement with the numerical simulations. When γ was 
less than 0.6, the fluid layer between the bubble surface and the 
solid boundary was too thin to form the splash. 
According to Rayleigh’s equation, when the effect of the 
surrounding solid boundary is excluded, the relationship 
between the time of bubble collapse and its radius is: 
c
v tppR
ρ
−
= 09.1max    (2) 
where p and ρ are the pressure of the flow field and the fluid 
density at ambient temperature respectively, vp  is the vapor 
pressure, ct  is the bubble collapse time. If the solid boundary 
condition is put into consideration, a greater bubble collapse 
time is required. Generally the size of the cavitation bubble 
produced in the laboratory is about 1.5 mm in radius. Under 
ambient temperature, the bubble collapse time ranges 
from ss µµ 200~100 . It is not easy to generate cavitation 
bubbles for their small volumes, short collapse time, and 
complicated flow fields; all of which contribute to a great 
difficulty of the measurement. In order to record and analyze 
the characteristics of the flow field of the bubble collapse, 
common experimental setup includes a high speed camera with 
framing rates ranging between several thousand to 100 million 
frames per second. Some researchers used the method of 
particle image velocimetry (PIV) to measure the velocity flow 
field of the process of bubble collapse (30). However since the 
volume of the bubble was small and its collapse time was too 
short, only a rough sketch of the flow field was obtained. 
Lawson et al. (35) applied the PIV method to measure the flow 
filed of the collapse of a 80 mm diameter rubber balloon and 
compared it with the numerical simulation. Although these 
results obtained agreement, there is great discrepancy between 
the flow field features of the collapse of a balloon and a bubble. 
Jaw et al. (36, 37) obtained sound experimental results using 
soap bubbles filled with smog particle and applied the PIV 
method to measure flow fields at different phases during the 
process of bubble collapse. 
In laboratory, a single cavitation bubble could be generated 
in a test tube using a high energy laser beam to focus on a single 
point (25, 26). In the following years, many related studies 
utilized this method to generate a single cavitation bubble. 
Since these bubbles were generated by the high energy laser 
beam which causes fluid aeration, it was restricted by the 
strength of the energy provided by the laser. Usually the bubble 
created using this method has small volume with 1.5 mm in 
radius. In addition, the inside pressure of the bubble was not 
equivalent to the vapor pressure at ambient temperature. 
Moreover, since the bubbles were formed by fluid aeration 
which parted the fluid molecules, there is no re-congealable 
vapor inside the bubbles to repeat the experiment. Some other 
researchers used the method of electrolysis to generate a bubble 
on a platinum electrode at the bottom of a box. However, this 
method has a defect of disturbing the flow field during the 
bubble collapse. Another method for forming the bubble is 
through the use of a needle to inject air into the test tube before 
using a lithotripter to generate a shock wave up to 94 MPa to 
break the bubble (39). Sankin et al. (40) also used a lithotripter 
to generate a 39 MPa shock wave to break the laser induced 
bubble in order to measure the flow field of the interaction 
between the bubble collapse and the shock wave. 
From the paper reviews presented above, it is perceived 
that the cavitation bubble collapse flow is very difficult to 
measure due to the facts that the bubble size is small, the 
collapse time is very short, and the flow induced is very 
complicate. In addition, as mentioned before, the bubble 
generated by the optical breakdown is different from a true 
cavitation bubble. A cavitation bubble containing re-
condensable vapor, when collapsed, will produce greater energy 
than the ones without re-condensable vapor (24, 41). To resolve 
these problems, a simpler method for the generation of a true 
cavitation bubble is proposed in this study. By rotating a U tube 
filled with tap water, a single cavitation bubble is generated and 
stayed at the center of the rotational axis due to the effect of 
centrifugal force. The cinematographic analysis of bubble 
collapse flows induced by pressure waves of different strengths 
can thus be performed easily. By lowering the strength of the 
pressure wave, the bubble collapsed in a longer period of time, 
the characteristics of the true cavitation bubble collapse flow 
are clearly manifested. The present study focuses on the 
investigation of the formation of the liquid jet and the counter 
jet, at different stand-off distances to the boundary, and their 
consequent influences on the bubble collapse flow. 
EXPERIMENTAL SETUP 
The experimental setup for the flow field measurement of 
cavitation bubble collapse is shown in Figure 1. This device is 
 4 Copyright © 1996 by ASME 
field image data and the pressure change profile with their 
subsequent analysis. 
A Fastec high speed camera is used to record the 
experimental images. The frame speed is determined by the size 
of the image. For example, a speed of 4,000 frame /second is 
used for an image size of 1280×128 pixels. A Kulite XTL-190 
pressure sensor is incorporated with the NI-6221 Analog I/O 
device to measure the pressure variation. The NI-6221 Analog 
I/O device can send a 10 V signal to drive the pressure sensor 
and receive a 0 – 0.5 V pressure signal to record data which 
enables itself for the analysis of the pressure change profile in 
the transparent cylindrical tube. 
With such an experiment setup, a single cavitation bubble 
and the subsequent bubble collapse flows induced by pressure 
waves are easily generated. Cinematographic analysis and PIV 
measurements of the cavitation bubble collapse flows at 
different stand-off distances are performed and discussed in the 
following. 
MEASUREMENTS OF CAVITATION BUBBLE 
COLLAPSE FLOW 
It is found that the presence of the solid boundary has 
distinct influence on the flow field of a pressurized cavitation 
bubble and its final collapse. A distance parameter γ  is 
assigned to represent the distance from the center of the bubble 
to the solid boundary. The average radius of the cavitation 
bubbles is set at 2 mm. Pressure wave at different strengths are 
applied to break the bubble. The results are described below: 
 
Flow Field Measurement of Bubble Collapse at γ≈ 7 
Under this condition, the distance between the center of the 
cavitation bubble and the solid boundary is nearly seven time of 
its radius. The flow field of the process of cavitation bubble 
collapse is not affected by the solid boundary. Therefore the 
solid boundary is assumed to be insignificant to the process of 
bubble collapse. This process of the cavitation bubble being 
pressurized followed by its final collapse is shown in Figure 3. 
The pressure wave is sent from the left side of the bubble 
surface, impacting the bubble with peak strength up to 160 kPa. 
The pressure wave caused a concaved deformation of the 
bubble shown in Figure 3. 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Images of bubble collapse at γ≈ 7. 
 
When the bubble is concaved by the pressure wave, a liquid 
jet is formed at the central axis of the bubble. Initially the liquid 
jet is converged as the bubble surface concaved toward the 
center of the bubble. The left hand side bubble surface 
progressively moves toward the right hand side surface of the 
bubble. When sufficient energy is accumulated by the liquid jet 
during its continuous motion to the right side of the bubble, the 
overlaid surface is squeezed and subsequently spouted into a jet 
flow. When the jet flow extended to the static fluid at the right 
side of the bubble, rapid variation in the flow velocity is created 
which leaded to a Kelvin-Helmholtz vortex shown in Figure 3. 
Jaw et al. (37) clearly described the Kelvin-Helmholtz vortex, 
indicating that the interaction between the pressure and the 
velocity variation is the main cause of this phenomenon. 
The liquid jet spouted into the surrounding static fluid to 
form the Kelvin-Helmholtz vortex is clearly manifested in 
Figure 4. Note that the left-pointed velocity vectors on the left 
half of the image are caused by the rebound of the pressure 
wave from solid boundary. 
 
 
 
Figure 4. Velocity vectors measured from PIV forγ≈ 7. 
 
Flow Field Measurement of Bubble Collapse at γ≈ 2 
As described in the introduction, the counter jet would be 
generated when the distance between the center of the bubble 
and the solid boundary is within one to three times the bubble’s 
radius (1 < γ ≈ 3). The experiments conducted with γ≈ 2 falls 
within this range. 
The distance from the right side of the bubble surface to the 
solid boundary is only one radius long. A pressure wave with 
peak strength 250 kPa is applied to break the bubble. The 
Kelvin-Helmholtz vortex is generated after the bubble surface is 
broken and the jet flow is formed. This vortex would touch the 
solid boundary and subsequently form the stagnation ring on the 
solid boundary shown in Figure 5. After the stagnation ring 
touched the solid boundary, it was divided into two fluid flows. 
One of them is outside the stagnation ring splashing outwardly 
along the radial direction. The other fluid flow inside the 
stagnation ring is squeezed inwardly along the central direction 
to form a counter jet. The preexistence of fluid between the 
 6 Copyright © 1996 by ASME 
surrounding solid boundary, disabling the vortex from forming 
the stagnation ring and the counter jet. 
The velocity vectors measured from PIV experiments is 
shown in Figure 8. It is found that the velocity vectors of the 
Kelvin-Helmholtz vortex diverges much faster than those shown 
in Figure 6. The stagnation ring and the counter jet are not 
formed for this bubble collapse flow. 
 
 
 
Figure 8. Velocity vectors measured from PIV at γ≈ 3 
 
Flow Field Measurement of Bubble Collapse at γ ≈ 1 
The other critical value for the formation of the counter jet 
occurs at γ ≈ 1 where the bubble is tightly close to the solid 
boundary. In this study, in order to understand the 
characteristics of the flow fields under this critical condition, 
measurements of flow fields at both locations where γ is slightly 
greater than and equal to one were carried out. 
When the bubble is located at γ slightly greater than 1, there 
is a small distance between the bubble surface and the rigid 
boundary. When the bubble is pressurized and concaved inward, 
the bubble become more planiform in shape for this 
deformation is caused by the solid boundary. The area of 
inward concaved bubble is larger than the three cases 
mentioned before. After the liquid jet penetrated the bubble 
surface, there is not enough space to form a complete Kelvin-
Helmholtz vortex. However, the space between the bubble 
surface and the solid boundary would still exist a gap allow the 
formation of stagnation ring after the liquid jet touches the solid 
boundary. This is followed by an outward splash along the 
radial direction while the inward stagnation ring was squeezed 
along the central direction to form the counter jet, as shown in 
Figure 9.  
Since the bubble is close to the wall, the flow around the 
bubble is near stagnation although the bubble is compressed 
severely, as shown in Figure 10. The bubble keeps deforming 
and then touches the wall to form a stagnation ring. A counter 
jet is formed inside the stagnation ring. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9. Images of bubble collapse flow at γ≈ 1 
 
 
 
Figure 10. Velocity vectors measured from PIV at γ≈ 1 
 
Under the condition of γ = 1, the bubble interface is 
pressurized to form an inward concaved bubble. It is followed 
by the overlaying of the bubble interfaces on the solid boundary 
without any spaces left for the fluid. After the liquid jet 
impacted the solid boundary, it just moved outwardly as a 
splash along the radial direction. The bubble collapses 
subsequently on the radial trajectory without forming of the 
stagnation ring and the inwardly squeezed counter jet. This 
process of bubble collapse is shown in the images and diagrams 
in Figure 11. 
 
  
  
 
Figure 11. Images of bubble collapse flow at γ= 1. 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
In this study, a single cavitation bubble is generated by 
rotating a U-tube filled with water; the pressure at the rotating 
axis of the U-tube is lowered to the water vapor pressure due to 
the centrifugal acceleration, and the cavitation bubble is 
generated right at the rotating axis. The bubble collapse flows 
are induced by the pressure waves of different strengths. 
Sequential images of the bubble collapse flow are recorded by a 
high speed camera. The characteristics of the cavitation bubble 
collapse flow are clearly manifested by the cinematographic 
analyses and PIV measurements. 
For a large stand-off distance, γ ≈ 7, the bubble collapsed 
without solid boundary influence, a liquid jet is formed due to 
 8 Copyright © 1996 by ASME 
collapse,” Applied Physics Letters, 59 , pp.2228–2231 
(1991). 
14. Ohl, C. D., Philipp, A., and Lauterborn, W., “Cavitation 
bubble collapse studied at 20 million frames per 
second,” Annalen der Physik, 4, pp.26-34 (1995). 
15. Shaw, S. J., Jin, Y. H., Schiffers, W. P. and Emmony, D. C., 
“The interaction of a single laser-generated cavity in water 
with a solid surface,” The Journal of the Acoustical Society 
of America, 99, pp.2811–2824 (1996). 
16. Lindau, O. and Lauterborn, W., “Cinematographic 
observation of the collapse and rebound of a laser-
produced cavitation bubble near a wall,” Journal of Fluid 
Mechanics, 479, pp.327–348 (2003). 
17. McCarn, A. R., Englert, E. M. and Williams, G. A., “Laser-
Induced Bubbles in Glycerol-Water Mixtures,” UCLA 
Physics and Astronomy Research, (2006). 
18. Ohl, C. D., Lindau, O. and Lauterborn, W., “Luminescence 
from spherically and aspherically collapsing laser induced 
bubbles,” Physical Review Letters, 80, pp.393-397 (1998). 
19. Buzukov, A. A. and Teslenko, V. S., “Sonoluminescence 
following focusing of laser radiation into liquid,” Journal 
of Experimental and Theoretical Physics Letters, 14, pp. 
189–191(1971). 
20.  Akmanov, A. G., Ben’kovskii, V. G., Golubnichii, P. I., 
Maslennikov, S. I., and Shemanin, V. G., “Laser 
sonoluminescence in a liquid,” Soviet Physics Acoustics, 
19, pp.417–418 (1974). 
21. Ohl, C. D., Kurz, T., Geisler, R.,  Lindau, O. and 
Lauterborn, W., “Bubble dynamics, shock waves and 
sonoluminescence,” Philosophical Transactions: 
Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, 357, 
pp.269–294 (1999). 
22. Wolfrum, B., Kurz, T., Lindau, O. and Lauterborn, W., 
“Luminescence of transient bubbles at elevated ambient 
pressure,” Physical Review E, 64, pp.046306-5 (2001). 
23. Baghdassarian, O., Chu, H. C., Tabbert, B. and Williams G. 
A., “Spectrum of luminescence from laser-created bubbles 
in water,” Physical Review Letters, 86, pp.4934–4937 
(2001). 
24. Akhatov, I., Lindau, O., Topolnikov, A., Mettin, R. 
Vakhitova, N. and Lauterborn, W., “Collapse and rebound 
of a laser-induced cavitation bubble,” Physical of Fluids, 
13, pp.2805-2819 (2001). 
25. Kling, C. L. and Hammitt, F. G., “A photographic study of 
spark-induced cavitation bubble collapse,” Transactions of 
the ASME D: Journal of Basic Engineering, 94, pp.825–
833(1972). 
26. Lauterborn, W., “Kavitation durch laserlicht, ”Acustica, 31, 
pp.52–78 (1974). 
27. Best, J. P., “The formation of toroidal bubbles upon the 
collapse of transient cavities,” Journal of Fluid Mechanics, 
251, pp.79–107 (1993). 
28.  Zhang, S. Duncan, J. H. and Chahine, G.L., ”The final 
stage of the collapse of a cavitation bubble near a rigid 
wall,” Journal of Fluid Mechanics, 257, pp.147–181 (1993). 
29. Blake, J. R., Hooton, M. C., Robinson, P. B. and Tong, R. 
P., “Collapsing cavities, toroidal bubbles and jet impact,” 
Philosophical Transactions Mathematical, Physical and 
Engineering Sciences, 355, pp.537–550 (1997). 
30. Vogel, A., Lauterborn, W. and Timm, R., “Optical and 
acoustic investigations of the dynamics of laser-produced 
cavitation bubbles near a solid boundary,” Journal of Fluid 
Mechanics, 206, pp.299–338 (1989). 
31. Kodama, T. and Tomita, Y., “Cavitation bubble behavior 
and bubble-shock wave interaction near a gelatin surface as 
a study of in vivo bubble dynamics. Applied Physical B, 70, 
pp.139–149 (2000). 
32. Tong, R. P., Schiffers, W. P. and Blake, S. J., “Splashing in 
the collapse of a laser-generated cavity near a rigid 
boundary,” Journal of Fluid Mechanics, 380, pp.339-361 
(1999). 
33. Shaw, S. J., Schiffers, W. P. and Emmony, D. C. 
“Experimental observations of the stress experienced by a 
solid surface when a laser-created bubble oscillates in its 
vicinity,” The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, 
110, pp. 1822–1827 (2001). 
34.  Brujan, E. A., Keen, G. S., Vogel, A. and Blake, J. R.  
“The final stage of the collapse of a cavitation bubble close 
to a rigid boundary,” Physics of Fluids, 14, pp.85–92 
(2002). 
35.  Lawson, N. J., Rudman, A. Guerra, J. and Liow, J. L., 
“Experimental and numerical comparisons of the break-up 
of a large bubble,” Experiments in fluids, 26, pp.524-534 
(1999). 
36. Jaw, S. Y., Chen, C. J. and Hwang, R. R., “Visualization of 
soap bubble collapse with acoustic pressure applied,” 
Journal of Flow Visualization, 8(2), pp.88-98 (2005). 
37. Jaw, S. Y., Chen, C. J. and Hwang, R. R., “Flow 
visualization of bubble collapse flow,” Journal of 
Visualization, 10, , pp.21-24 (2007). 
38. Lauterborn, W., “High-speed photography of laser-induced 
breakdown in lquids,” Applied Physical Letters, 21, pp. 
27–29(1972). 
39. Philipp, A., Delius, M., Scheffczyk, C., Vogel, A.  and 
Lauterborn, W., “Interaction of lithotripter- generated 
shock waves with air bubbles,” The Journal of the 
Acoustical Society of America, 93, pp.2496-2509 (1993). 
40. Sankin, G. N., Simmons, W. N., Zhu, S. L. and Zhong, P., 
“Shock wave interaction with laser- generated single 
bubble,” Physical Review Latter, 034501, pp. 1~4 (2005). 
出席第九屆水動力學國際研討會議報告 
 
水動力學國際研討會 (International Conference on Hydrodynamics) 為一大型的國
際研討會，兩年舉辦一次，分別於不同國家舉行，今年已舉辦至第九屆，於 2010
年 10 月 11 至 15 日期間，在上海的金沙江大酒店舉行‧總計約有超過 150 篇以
上的論文發表，200 位以上、來自世界各國的學者專家參與‧ 
 
或許是世界博覽會 (World Expo) 正好在上海舉行的關係，飛往上海的機票真是
一位難求‧大會開始前一日、10 月 10 日、的機位已滿，故只好提前一日，於 10
月 9 日先行前往上海‧初到上海的感覺是，各種硬體建設不比台灣差，但車子卻
沒台北多‧居民守規矩的教育，則還有待加強，不排隊、隨地吐痰、在禁止抽菸
的地方抽菸等，隨處可見‧『十年樹木、百年樹人』，硬體建設的改進容易，居民
品質的提升，可就要花更長的時間了‧自己從事教育工作多年，確實有此體會‧ 
 
10 月 11 日早上報到，要繳交報名費時，才發覺大會不收信用卡，只收現金‧這
現象在國際會議上倒很少見‧由於我本想以信用卡繳費，並未攜帶足夠的美金，
正愁不知如何是好之時，還好本系的同行友人有美金可先借我，以解燃眉之急，
乃能順利的註冊、取得各項會議資料‧早上註冊，下午大會即安排去參觀東海大
橋與洋山深水港‧這些重大工程，包含高速鐵路等、都為國內國造，造價上相對
便宜，工程品質的管控也較好‧沿途都可看到提醒『不當罪人』，要確保工程品
質等各種標語‧雖說型式上有些八股，但有提醒總比沒提醒好，這部分或許是值
得台灣學習的地方吧‧ 
 
大會於 10 月 12 日早上正式開始，三位 Keynote speaker 都安排於同一個早上演
講，這與一般逐日安排 Keynote speaker 的方式，亦不相同‧三位演講者的題目
分別為波浪、螺槳、與生物力學相關的研究‧因我本人亦正從事生物力學的推進
行為研究，與演講者所用的方法與所得成果比較，我們的方法可獲得更仔細、更
符合推進所需的實驗結果‧我們後續的研究成果應可證明所言不虛‧聽了此一演
講的另一感覺是，他們都有一群人在同一主題上從事各種相關研究，進度上快很
多‧而我們都是以獨自研究為主，縱使有很好的構想，進度上總是會比較慢‧記
得有一次作者於美國 ASME 的會議上，首次發表以 LED 為光源的 PIV 實驗法，結
果後續就有一篇以 LED 為光源、由 PIV 實驗儀器廠商發表的論文‧還好，作者後
續的研究，所得效果更佳，所發展的系統目前正申請專利中‧但受此次教訓，也
讓我認知了我們的構想雖好，但進度比較慢，也就不能急於國際會議上發表，要
學會保護智慧財產‧ 
 
我們的論文『Optimization of particle image distortion for PIV measurements』被安
排於 10 月 12 日下午的第一場第二篇，由第一作者翁維珠老師發表‧因各場次的
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/11/27
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 水中單一空蝕氣泡破裂流場的PIV實驗量測
計畫主持人: 趙勝裕
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-019-023- 學門領域: 水利工程
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
