南島民居體系研究之一：馬來民居類型研究 
A Typological Study of Malay Houses 
 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-006-436 
執行期限：95年 08月 01日至 96年 07月 31日 
主持人：王明蘅   國立成功大學建築學系 
共同主持人：陳耀如   正修科技大學建築工程學系 
計畫參與人員：徐嘉敏   國立成功大學建築學系 
 
中文摘要 
本研究目的在探討馬來民居及其衍化機
制。以三個面向描述馬來民居的基本特
色：空間、造型、與構造。從超過 200 個
案例中分成至少四個民居類型。由四組規
則來描述各類型皆可：空間構成規則、主
屋成長規則、屋群配置規則、構造規則，
及其各自衍生的次規則。這些規則可清楚
呈現馬來民居的衍化機制。 
關鍵詞：民居類型、馬來民居、衍化機制、
類型規則  
 
Abstract 
The study focused on the Malay houses, 
especially their adaptive mechanism. 
Prototype of Malay house was described on 
three aspects: space, form, and construction. 
Originated from the prototype, more than 
200 house cases may be divided into four 
groups at least. Analysis on the houses’ 
adaptive process may be inferred into four 
sets of typological rules: rule of spatial 
hierarchy, rules of rumah ibu’s extension, 
rules of house grouping, and rules of 
construction, accompanying with their 
sub-rules. The rules and sub-rules construct 
an organization of three layers which clearly 
presents the adaptive mechanism of Malay 
houses. 
Keywords: House type, Malay house, 
Adaptive mechanism, Typological rule.  
 
 
 1
1Rumah 為馬來語屋(House) 之意。 
 
第一章 馬來民居的特色  
 
馬來半島面積 131598平方公里，各式民居
普遍存在於各州境內，單一家庭擁有獨立
民居，每個獨立民居多由數目不等的房屋
與增建物組成，眾多民居聚集形成
kampung（村落）。Kampung 饒富馬來地
方色彩，干闌式民居隱身高大樹下，四周
庭院俱廣。民居與民居之間僅有簡單的界
定或全無界定，體現馬來村落的開放性。
從鄉村到城市，kampung 由疏朗到密集，
然而不管是鄉村或都市，在單一基地內都
維持馬來民居單棟的隔局與配置，並未產
生如雙拼或連棟的都市型住居形式。 
本研究由國立成功大學建築系與馬來
西 亞 理 工 大 學 （ Universiti Teknologi 
Malaysia, UTM）建築系合作，研究採用的
案例來源有二：其一為 UTM 的 KALAM 
Centre（ Pusat Kajian Alam Bina Dunia 
Melayu, Centre for the Study of Built 
Environment in the Malay World）歷經數十
年的馬來建築調查與測繪報告文獻，另一
為歷次由台灣成功大學進行的馬來半島現
場調查所得。 
以 1850年興建的Rumah1 Datuk Baginda 
Tan Mas Mohar來說明馬來民居的基本特
色。（圖一） 
空間構成 
Serambi、rumah ibu與 dapur組成室內空間
最重要的三個空間內容。Serambi(會客空間)
可由屋外地面經由階梯進入，或由屋外經
一階梯平台(rumah tangga)再進入，serambi
的功用為接待親友賓客用餐或睡覺的場
所，皆席地作息。rumah ibu一詞在馬來語
 3
關係並未改變。 
早期民居主屋構架為傳統構造。大多數
Perak民居的屋頂構架則採其他構架，沒有
平行扁梁，屋身外周圈的柱，撐起環繞四
周的梁，柱列上跨橫梁，橫梁上的支柱(post)
支撐脊梁。因為四周圍梁之故，可以在每
個立面方向的屋頂放置斜向椽子，搭接在
圍梁與脊梁之間，形成四落水的屋頂。此
種構法捨棄兩個斜率的屋頂變化，將
anjung、主屋、次屋與 selang的屋頂融合為
一體，形象接近「單一整體」，而非主屋
鮮明的形象。（圖三） 
 
2.3 Kedah與 Perlis民居類型 
馬來民居的特色在於：以主屋為主，加上
次屋、連接空間、附加體形成屋群組合。
Kedah與Perlis地區民居將屋群整合成一座
「縱長形的長屋」，只有 dapur獨立於外。 
1905年建造的 Rumah Wa Jah (Puan Halijah 
Hashim)為一主屋與一次屋組成(圖四：1)。
主屋面寬三間、進深四跨距，第一個跨距
名為 lepau有 serambi之意，內三個跨距主
要為 rumah ibu與側邊的 bilik tidur (睡
房)，後面的次屋純為 dapur。本案例有兩
個特色：一是主屋呈現縱長型的長屋，二
是屋脊與入口方向垂直。更晚近的案例也
顯現同樣的特色，進深跨距從四擴增為
六，次屋亦可移到側後方，與主屋以平台
連接(2,3)。田野調查中，可發現面寬二跨
距、進深六跨距的案例(4,5,6)。 
案例顯示有兩大類屋架：(1)為傳統主屋構
造原型，轉了 90度角，屋架山牆面向道路
(1,2,3)，屋脊與入口方向平行。(2)為縱長
型長屋的屋頂由多種不同形式的屋頂組合
而成，整體屋脊高度較低(4,5,6)。（圖四） 
 
2.4 Penang民居類型 
主屋屋脊與道路平行。主屋大部份為傳統
的「十二柱屋」，面寬二、進深三跨距；
亦有少數面寬三、進深二跨距者。入口由
主屋側面進入 serambi，加一轉換平台形成
ruang tangga，上覆遮棚。 
Penang地區的屋群組合最特別的是 rumah 
gajah menyusu(小象哺乳)，在主屋的山牆面
增建次屋，直接附著在主屋的山牆。Rumah 
gajah menyusu屋頂比主屋低，地板面亦較
低。第二棟次屋多採取在第一棟次屋的後
部增建，與地面齊平(圖五：1,2,3)。第二棟
次屋亦可緊臨第一棟次屋的山牆再採取
Rumah gajah menyusu的作法(4) 。除了
Rumah gajah menyusu的增築方式，亦有案
例在主屋後部以 eave to eave連接方式增加
次屋(5,6)。 
構造多採用傳統主屋構造原型。Rumah 
tangga位處門面重要位置，遮棚均作得美
觀有特色。（圖五） 
  
第三章 馬來民居的類型規則 
 
由各地區民居案例的分析，馬來民居因應
居住需求增加、及基地環境條件有以下四
組衍化規則： 
空間構成規則   
室內的 serambi、rumah ibu、與 dapur由前
至後依序排列。屋群規模擴大，空間規模
亦擴大，serambi與 rumah ibu仍分置前後，
中間的 rumah ibu與 bilik tidur同時增加。 
主屋成長規則 
以「十二柱屋」為起點，面寬*進深=2*3。
擴充方式有：增減面寬跨距數、增減進深
跨距數、增加 anjung、增加 serambi的寬度、
增加 rumah tangga、增加樓層。 
屋群配置規則 
次屋或附加體在主屋的後部或側邊增築與
連接。可為一棟，亦可為數棟。增築連接
的位置有三種可能：(一)是屋後面的正中
央，二是屋後面的左邊或右邊，三是屋的
側面。增築連接的方式有五種：(一)簷接
（eave to eave）：平行的屋簷之間留有
20~30公分，下有天溝盛落雨排除至屋外，
為室內空間。(二)庭接（pelantar）：平行
的屋簷分開，產生一個無頂蓋的戶外空
<附錄一>附圖 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖一：馬來民居原型 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dapur 
Rumah Ibu 
Serambi 
 
 
平面圖 立面圖 構架圖 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
說明：
1. 平面
2. 平面
留白
3. 適當
4. 主要
 
圖二：
 
Rumah Datuk Baginda Tan Mas Mohar 1850年 5
圖僅標示門的位置，窗的位置未標示。 
圖灰色區域為主屋、次屋的屋頂範圍，屋頂連接處留白，Serambi與 Anjung亦
，以突顯主屋量體之完整。 
的案例加繪屋頂府視圖。 
入口方向以箭頭標示。 
Negeri Sembilan, Selangor, Melaka, 與 Pahang民居的類型衍化 
 7
 
 2
Kg. Jeniang 民居案例 11 
Kg. Sik 民居案例 8 
Kg. Bukit 民居案例 2 
Kg.Bukit 至 PokokSenang 沿
路 
民居案例 2 
Alor Setar 市 王宮、民居案例 3 
K1 公路沿線 民居案例 9 
Kg. Terung 民居案例 12 
Kg. Jarum 民居案例 4 
Kg. Ponchor 民居案例 3 
Kg. S. Tuntung 民居案例 7 
Kg.Gajah 民居案例 4 
Kg. Bota Kanan 民居案例 2 
Kg. Gunung 民居案例 3 
Kg. Sumpitan 民居案例 1 
Perak 
Kuala Kansar 王宮 Istana Kenangan 
計 考察：民居案例 205、王宮 4 
 
本次考察時間：95年 8 月 27 日至 95年 9 月 5 日 
本次考察活動 
（一） 與馬來西亞理工大學建築系進行學術交流，並攜回該校馬來民居測繪案例（表
2）。 
（二）探訪馬來民居在蘇門答臘島的分佈情形，如（表 3）。 
表 2 
州名 民居案例數量 州名 民居案例數量 州名 民居案例數量
Johor 5 Kelantan 16 Kuala Lumpur 9 
Pulau Lankawi 1 Melaka 3 Pahang 4 
Perak 11 Perlis 4 Pulau Pinang 3 
Selangor 1 Sembilan 13 Terengganu 9 
計：民居案例 79 
表 3 
 州名 市鄉鎮名 考察對象 
Desa Lampisang Dayah Kec. 
Seulimeum 
民居案例 7 Aceh Besar 
Tgk. Chik Awe Geutah Kec. 
Peusangan Kab. Bireun 
民居案例 7 
Kg. Lingga  民居案例 7 
Indonesia 
Utara Sumatra 
Samosir Island 民居案例 24 
計 考察：民居案例 45 
 4
 <附錄三>國際會議發表論文 
Conference on Sustainable Building South East Asia, 5-7 November 2007, Malaysia 
 
A TYPOLOGICAL STUDY ON THE CREATIVE NUCLEUS OF MALAY HOUSES 
Y.R. CHEN 
Department of Architecture, National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan  
No.1, University Road, Tainan City 701,Taiwan  
Syed Iskandar Ariffin1,  M.H. WANG2【 
1 Faculty of Built Environment, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia 
UTM Skudai, Johor, 81310,  Malaysia  
2 Department of Architecture, National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan 
No.1 University Road, Tainan City 701, Taiwan 
Abstract 
Cultural sustainability can benefit from re-learning traditional houses that require systematic studies. This study attempts to 
explore the creative nucleus of Malay houses by a typological methodology. More than 200 cases were studied through the 
following operations: 1). Encoding by typological description, 2). Finding variations in house-building, 3). Formulating typological 
rules, 4). Proposing “generating mechanism” and “screening mechanism” as the creative nucleus embedded in Malaysian 
architectural traditions. 
Keywords: Malay house, creative nucleus, typological study, house type. 
 
1. Introduction 
Paul Ricoeur, world reknowned philosopher, said in 1961 that universalization brought progress of human 
beings on one hand, and the destruction of creative nucleus of some great cultures on the other hand. This 
statement is particularly alarming in this century of globalization, in which we all experienced the dark side 
as well as the bright side of the universality. With this regards, this paper addresses the issues related to the 
notion of creative nucleus by presenting a typological method to the study, and the future development of 
Malay houses. 
The house types in Southeast Asia, although lack no commonality such as raised footing, boat image, 
decorative gables, etc. (Waterson, 1990), have some obvious disparities, such as big roof vs. small roof, 
heavy wood vs. light wood construction, multi-family single building vs. detached houses etc. Within these 
various house types of Southeast Asia, the houses in Peninsula Malaysia exhibit some distinctive 
characteristics: the stilts footing, non-boat image, small roof, and light wood construction (as compared to  
Batak Karo and Tongkonan houses), and compound buildings with central main house for single family. 
The main house (rumah ibu), the distinctive built volume in Malay houses, is always located at the front. 
The ridge of the main house is usually parallel with the street and perpendicular to the entry gate. The main 
house has largest volume and highest roof that constructed with two different slopes. Behind the main 
house locates one or more sub-houses with descending roof heights. The floor heights also decrease from 
the main house, sub-houses, to the kitchen (dapur), which is usually on the ground (Teh, 1996). There are 
three major spaces in Malay houses: serambi (reception area), rumah ibu (core space), and dapur. The 
spatial sequence in Malay houses is clear and strict: from outside to the inside in the order of serambi, 
rumah ibu, and dapur. Guests are only invited to serambi, while relatives can enter rumah ibu. Dining with 
the guests also takes place in serambi. Usually, the front half of the house (front yard and serambi) is the 
living space for male, and the back part (back yard and dapur) for female (Ariffin, 2001). 
Spatial form and construction language are considered two fundamental aspects for house type studies. The 
two interact in various ways. Spatial form is deeply embedded in the culture while the construction language 
may travel from one culture to another. The change of spatial form, as results of the change of life demands 
or outside environments, may require transformations of construction languages accordingly, which may 
reciprocally entail related changes in spatial form. It is hypothesized that each culture has its house 
There are connections between main house and sub-house, sub-house and sub-house, or house and 
attachment that are positioned in four different ways: 1). Eave to eave (C1): Connecting a gap between 
parallel eaves, with a gutter to drain rainwater out, forming a part of interior space. 2). Pelantar (C2): The 
separation of parallel eaves forms an outdoor space like an indoor courtyard. 3). Selang (C3): A corridor 
built by adding a longitudinal roof upon the larger distance between two roofs, serves as indoor or 
semi-outdoor space. 4). Attached shelter (C4): attach to the main unit or sub-houses. In addition, three 
possible locations of the joints: at central back (@p1), at side of back (@p2), at side (@p3). (Fig.2) 
Hm
H1
@P3
c1@P2
c1@P3
c2@P2
@P3
Hm
H1
c3@P1
c4@P2
Hm
E3 E4
E5
E7
E6
AtH1
Fig.2 Connections of houses  Fig.1 Extensions of main house  
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.1.2. Spatial structure. In addition to afore mentioned serambi (S), rumah ibu (RI), and dapur (D), other 
interior spaces that feature the Malay house type are as follows: bilik tidur (bedroom), rumah tengah 
(rumah ibu), selang (corridor), pelantar (inner courtyard), anjung, rumah tangga (stairway space). The 
spaces are positioned according to the following arrangement rules: 1). the main house is originally 
composed of serambi, rumah ibu, and bilik tidur. 2). serambi, anjung, and rumah tangga are located in the 
front of the house. 3). selang and pelantar are both connecting space. 4). dapur are located in the back. 
 6
.3)  Construction. Basically there are two types of construction.  
Construction 1 (Cons.1): The original “six-column house (rumah tiang enam)” contains three columns at two 
sides, each with a flat-beam (beam with flat rectangular section) on top, and another 3 vertical flat-beams 
(level 2) at the 3 pairs of columns on top of these two parallel flat-beams (level 1). Locate the post in the 
middle of the three flat-beams (level 2) and put the oblique beams at the two terminals of the post and the 
flat-beam to form the prototype of the oblique roof (Fig. 3). In case of extension, one (3 columns) or two 
rows (6 columns) of columns parallel to the house ridge are added to expand one or two more spans. This is 
a technical way of building the attachment. The oblique beam that supports the roof of the attachment is 
connected to the added column, level 1 flat-beam or columns on the main house. The main house of such 
style contains the pitch roof with double slope, composed of one “six-column house” and “two attachments” 
and forms “twelve-column house” (rumah tiang dua delas). The roof in the middle of the house is more 
slanting than those of the sides. The preceding description is about the constructional prototype of the 
Malay houses.  
Cons.2 Cons.1 
Fig.3 Constructions of Malay houses
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construction 2 (Cons.2): This construction is without parallel flat-beams. The columns surrounding the 
house support the beams around. Horizontal beams are supported by the rows of columns, and the post on 
top of the beams supports the spinal beam. Because of the beams around, an oblique rafter can be put on 
each roof of elevation to connect the surrounding beams and spinal beams and form the hip roof. But this 
technique excludes the roof variation of double slope and adopts smaller slope, not resembling the image of 
the main house in Malay house prototype. (Fig. 3) 
typological rules which govern the production of Malay houses. Rules are layered to reveal their varieties in 
application. 
From all the cases under study, it is found that the “S, RI, D composition” is the fundamental rule shared by 
Malay houses without exception. The second-level typological rules are “Cons.1 or Cons.2” and “main-house 
image”. For instance, Perak houses, while complying with the “S, RI, D composition” rule, adopt “Cons.2” 
and produce the “main-sub-house integrated image” as result. The rule regarding “back or side extension 
and connection” also belongs to the second-level. The constructors of Negeri Sembilan houses prefer the 
sub-houses to be in alignment with the sides. The sub-houses in Melaka can exceed the left or right side 
lines of the main house. The selang of Perak houses are connected with mid-back of the main house. The 
above arrangements, as spatial interpretations of “back or side extension and connection”, constitute the 
category of the third-level typological rules. Negeri Sembilan houses have Minangkabau-style bull-horn ridge, 
which are the result of applying “Cons.1” and “main-house image”. Minangkabau’s roof can also be 
considered as an instance of the third-level rules. The 3-bay façade of Perak houses with middle bay 
elaborated by anjung method is another case of the third-level rules. (Table 2) 
In Johor area, there are houses as generated by the second-level typological rules of “Cons.1”and 
“main-house image” resemble those in the middle area. There are also Johor houses as produced by the 
second-level rules of “Cons.2” and “integrated main-sub-house image” resemble those in the Perak area. 
Nevertheless, ruang tangga, a special attachment to the sides of Johor main houses, represents the 
third-level typological rules. The short stilts of Johor houses can also be considered as the third-level rules.  
 
Table 2. Typological rules 
1st-level rule 2nd-level rules 3rd-level rules 
Sub-houses exceeding the side line of 
the main house 
Back or side extension and connection  
Cons.1 with main-house image 
Sub-houses in alignment with one side  
Minangkabau’s roof 
Selang connected at central bay 
Anjung at front central bay 
Spatial hierarchy of S, 
RI, D 
Back or side extension and connection  
Cons.2 with main-sub-house integrated   
image 
Ruang tangga at main house’s side  
Low stilts 
 
4. Generating Mechanism 
Malay houses have endowed with great capacity of variations by 4 different classes: the house grouping, the 
spatial layout, the construction methods, and the building materials. Each class has certain alternative 
choices, and all together can generate multiple combinations. The combination possibilities can be calculated 
in greater detail by the following parameters from X1 to X6: 
x1= E1~E7, main house extension;  
x2= C1~C4, connecting way of main house, sub-house and attachment;  
x3=@p1, ~@p3, connecting position; 
x4= more than 9 spatial elements;  
x5= column, obligue beam, roofing, floor (construction elements);  
x6=materials. 
These 6 parameters constitute the generating mechanism of Malay house variations. The generating process 
 8
