 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-002-118- 
執行期間：95 年 08 月 01 日至 96 年 10 月 31 日 
主持人：台灣大學光電工程研究所 馮哲川教授 
 
 
 
一、中文摘要 
本 報 告 總 結 國 科 會 計 畫 NSC 
95-2221-E-002-118-「功率與節能應用之塊
狀與磊晶碳化矽的創新研究」(95年08月01
日至96年10月31日)的執行成果。在這段時
間之內，計畫主持人(暨合作者和學生)已經
發表了10篇在SCI上的期刊論文。主要的結
果及成就包含了以下幾項：(A) 矽基板上
化學氣相磊晶成長的立方體碳化矽的光學
性質，(B) 氮化銦鎵/氮化鎵多量子井發光
二極體載子侷限的研究，(C) 矽基板上分
子束磊晶成長的奈米薄膜氮化鎵的研究，
(D) 砷化鎵基板上化學氣相磊晶成長的磷
化鋁銦鎵的表面和光學性質，(E)以氫氟酸
-甲基氰形成多孔矽的光學和表面及核心 
技術研究，(F) 不同電介質薄膜沈積和退
火中的As化銦鎵/磷化銦多量子井的帶溝
藍移，(G)拉曼散射研究的氮化鎵的甲基氰
性質，(H)改良溶化技術成長的氧化鋅材料
的光學檢測，(I) 矽基板上化學氣相磊晶成
長的立方體碳化矽的光學性質紅外線反射
研究，(J) 氮化銦鎵/氮化鎵多量子井中的V 
缺陷的檢測，(K) 提供給20多名研究生的
良好訓練。 
 
關鍵詞：碳化矽,化學氣相磊晶,金屬氧化物
化學氣相磊晶,微電子,節能功率器件,奈米
結構,檢測 
 
Abstract 
 This report reviews the performance on 
the project NSC 95-2221-E-002-118-, for 
8/1/2005 – 10/31/2006. In this period, P.I. 
(and collaborators as well as students) have 
published 10 journal papers to be listed in 
SCI [1-10], and more conference/proceeding 
papers. Main results and achievements 
include: A) Optical Properties of Cubic SiC 
Grown on Si substrate by Chemical Vapor 
Deposition [1], B) Study of carrier 
localization in InGaN/GaN quantum well 
blue light emitting diode structures [2], C) 
Pulse Source Injection Molecular Beam 
Epitaxy and Characterization of Nano-scale 
Thin GaN Layers on Si substrates [3], D) 
Surface and optical properties of AlGaInP 
Films Grown on GaAs by Metalorganic 
Chemical Vapor Deposition[4], E) Combined 
optical, surface and nuclear microscopic 
investigation of porous silicon formed in 
HF-acetonitrile [5], F) Band-gap Blue Shift 
of InGaAs/InP Multiple Quantum Wells by 
Different Dielectric Film Coating and 
Annealing [6], G) Anisotropic Properties of 
GaN Studied by Raman Scattering [7], H) 
Optical Characterization of ZnO Materials 
Grown by Modified Melt Growth Technique 
[8], I) Infrared Reflectance Study of 3C-SiC 
Grown on Si by Chemical Vapor Deposition 
[9], J) Observation of V Defects in Multiple 
InGaN/GaN Quantum Well Layers [10], and 
K) good trainings for more than 20 graduate 
students. 
 
Keywords: SiC, CVD, MOCVD, epitaxy, 
microelectronics, energy-saving, power 
electronics 
 
二、緣由與目的 
 該計畫為馮哲川教授於92學年加入台
灣大學光電所暨電機系後申請的第5個國
科會計畫。當今世界文明的高度發展導致
了地球資源的快速消耗，其將摧毀人類的
將來。因此國際間紛紛提出各種節約能源
的計畫，希望能促進人類的永續發展。眾
所皆知，台灣本身就是一個缺乏能源的國
家，所以節約能源就是一個十分重要的課
題。在人類的生活世界裡，電能消耗是很
厲害的，例如， 大量電能在各種變電站，
電力轉換匣，功能電子元件中被無功地消
耗掉。如果我們能發展出新型節能電子元
 4
different structures. Crosssectional 
HAADF-STEM images observations 
revealed that the deep localization of 
excitons (or carriers) originates from the 
In-rich regions acting as QDs. From TD-PL 
and EPD-PL experiments, we can expect 
efficient luminescence in InGaN originates 
due to carriers radiative recombination 
through localizing states. The fact that the 
localized energy depth depends on the 
structural parameters can be observed from 
our PL analysis. Generally speaking, stronger 
localization effect increases the higher 
internal quantum efficiency at room 
temperature. Furthermore, the deeper 
localized potential fluctuations are highly 
susceptible to rapid state filling as the 
excitation level is increased. 
 
3) Pulse Source Injection Molecular Beam 
Epitaxy and Characterization of Nano-scale 
Thin GaN Layers on Si substrates  
 A pulse source injection MBE technique 
was successfully developed to grow 
extremely smooth thin GaN films. This 
pulsed-source growth process is different 
from the atomic layer epitaxy (ALE) process 
which provides one atomic layer of material 
growth for each complete source injection 
period. In the PSIMBE process, multilayers 
of GaN is grown for each source injection 
period. Calculations based on the growth rate, 
indicated that the pulsed source injection 
MBE process grew eight GaN lattice 
constants of material for a 3 min source 
injection period. The PSIMBE process has a 
faster growth rate than the ALE process. It is 
believed that this pulsed source injection 
process provides a sufficiently long 
relaxation time to allow high mobility Ga 
atoms to move to the nuclear sites at island 
boundaries and thereby form layer by layer 
2-dimensional growth. Therefore, it can be 
treated as a migration enhanced growth 
process. However, detailed growth studies 
need to be continued to completely 
understand the growth mechanisms for 
further process optimization. 
 
4) Surface and optical properties of AlGaInP 
Films Grown on GaAs by Metalorganic 
Chemical Vapor Deposition  
 We have grown two sets of 
(AlxGa1-x)0.5In0.5P thin films on GaAs 
substrates with x near 24% and 18%, 
respectively, by low pressure MOCVD and 
performed a combined characterization by 
Nomarski microscopy, atomic force 
microscopy, photoluminescence, and Raman 
spectroscopy. Nomarski microscopy observe 
the cracking line and twist defect line on the 
surface of the first set of AlGaInP films, 
while the second set have almost clear 
surface. AFM revealed the cross-hatch 
dislocation patterns from the first set of films 
but no cross-hatch observed from the second 
set of films. Room temperature PL and 
Raman spectra showed corresponding 
variations. The degree of variations in 
compositions and film quality with the 
growth conditions were found from the 
spectral analyses. Raman spectral features 
are more sensitive to the sample growth 
parameter variations. The line shape analysis 
of line width, integrated intensity ratio and 
spatial correlation model fitting leads to 
information about the order of the sample 
crystalline quality. The optimum growth 
conditions have been obtained from our 
comprehensive analyses. These 
nondestructive techniques offers us a better 
understanding of MOCVD-grown 
In0.5(Ga1-xAlx)0.5P/GaAs and a useful way to 
optimize the growth parameters of high 
quality quaternary semiconductor materials. 
 
5) Combined optical, surface and nuclear 
microscopic investigation of porous silicon 
formed in HF-acetonitrile  
 We have prepared porous silicon (P-Si) 
on various Si substrates by 
photoelectron-chemical etching of silicon in 
HF acetonitrile (MeCN) solutions, a new 
type of HF solutions for forming P-Si. 
Different types of Si wafers, Si(100), Si(111) 
and polycrystalline Si, with different 
resistivities, were employed to produce 
10–30 Am thick P-Si layers. A combined 
optical, surface and nuclear microscopic 
assessment of these P-Si layers was 
performed using photoluminescence (PL), 
Raman scattering, X-ray photoelectron 
spectroscopy (XPS) and Rutherford 
backscattering spectroscopy (RBS). Red 
 6
small degree of imperfection in the 
crystalline structure of experimental ZnO 
samples. RT PL have showed most of 
ZnO bulk wafer samples with the major band 
edge emissions from wurtzite ZnO crystal, 
which are affected only slightly by dopings, 
and a lower energy emission band depending 
on the dopants. UV-visible optical 
transmission measurements revealed the 
optical absorption gap varied greatly, 
depending on dopants in ZnO, although they 
show band edge emissions closely. A large 
shift in the optical absorption edge has been 
observed from these Mn/Co/Fe-doped bulk 
ZnO crystals in comparison with un-doped 
ZnO, with information of the impurity levels 
of these dopants obtained. This interesting 
phenomenon is significant and can be useful 
in the fabrication of optical waveguide 
devices based upon ZnO materials. In this 
study, the computer fitting processes have 
provided an easy and essential way to deepen 
our understanding on the optical properties of 
the ZnO bulk materials. 
 
9) Infrared Reflectance Study of 3C-SiC 
Grown on Si by Chemical Vapor Deposition   
   Infrared (IR) reflectance of 3C-SiC on Si 
(100) has been studied both theoretically and 
experimentally. Influences of structural and 
electric properties on reflectance are 
investigated in detail. Information can be 
inferred about roughness at film surface and 
possible presence of interfacial layer at 
film-substrate interface. A damping behavior 
of the interference fringes away from the 
reststrahlen band and a dip or notch within 
the “flat top” are observed from some 
samples while they does not occur in high 
quality 3C-SiC/Si samples. We performed an 
extensive theoretical simulation study of the 
IR reflectance from the cubic SiC/Si system 
with various structural features. We assumed 
an interfacial transition layer existed between 
SiC-Si and a rough surface to be responsible 
to the fringe damping. The dip-notch feature 
can be demonstrated by a three-component 
effective medium model. This work shows 
that IR spectroscopy can be a useful tool to 
reveal the structural features on 3C-SiC/Si 
and other material systems. 
 
10) Observation of V Defects in Multiple 
InGaN/GaN Quantum Well Layers  
    We have observed an InGaN/GaN 
multiple quantum well (MQW) layer by 
high-angle annular dark-field (HAADF) 
scanning transmission electron microscopy 
(STEM) and conventional transmission 
electron microscopy (CTEM), and 
established the structure of V defects, 
confirming the formation mechanism of the 
V defects which was previously proposed by 
Shiojiri et al. 1) Specimen used in this 
experiment comprised five 4-nm 
In0:18Ga0:82N QWs spaced with 40-nm GaN 
barriers, which were deposited at a reactor 
temerature of 800oC on the 2-mm GaN layer. 
The MQW was covered with the 50-nm 
p-AlGaN capping layer. In HAADF-STEM 
images the In0:18Ga0:82N QWs appeared as 
thin bright bands and the GaN barriers 
appeared as thick dark bands between the 
QWs. 2) In the MQW, V defects were 
observed nucleating on a threading 
dislocation (TD) crossed with the InGaN QW 
just above the underlying GaN layer. 
HAADF-STEM gave undoubted evidence 
that the V defects have a thin six-walled 
structure with InGaN/GaN {10_111} QWs. 3) 
The segregation of In atoms was observed at 
the starting points of the V defects, by 
CTEM and HAADF-STEM. This might 
work as the In-rich mask which induced the 
{10_111} facets on the GaN crystal grown at 
the low temperature, as proposed in the 
formation mechanism of the V defects. 4) 
The TD incorporated with the V defect 
propagated to the free surface through the V 
defect buried with the cap layer. This 
provides evidence for the fact that the InGaN 
QWs and GaN barriers were connected in 
good lattice coherence with each other on the 
{10_111} interfaces, to make the cellurally 
same structure as a whole. 5) The corners 
connecting the {10_111} interfaces on the 
walls of a V defect with the (0001) interfaces 
in the main MQWs were curved. This is 
explained as a result of the layer-by-layer 
growth on the (0001) and {10_111} surfaces 
where each monolayer did not cover over its 
under-monolayer for lack of atom. The 
successive growth of these monolayers 
formed an interface with step-wise lattices 
 8
Chuo, J.T. Hsu, Z.C. Feng and M. 
Shiojiri, “Observation of V Defects in 
Multiple InGaN/GaN Quantum Well 
Layers”, Materials Transactions, 48, No. 
5, 894-8 (2007).  
11) L.M. Kong, J.N. Yao, Y.B. Deng, Z.Y. 
Wu and Z. C. Feng, “Effects of the 
In0.1Ga0.9As Strained Layer on Structures 
and Spectra of InAs Self-assembled 
Quantum Dots”, Proceedings of the 
International Workshop on Modern 
Science and Technology in 2006, Wuhan, 
China, p.347-352 (2006). 
12) Z.C. Feng and Z.Y. Wu, “Cubic SiC 
Grown on Si substrate by Chemical 
Vapor Deposition: Optical 
Characterization”, Proceedings of the 
International Workshop on Modern 
Science and Technology in 2006, Wuhan, 
China, p.450-455 (2006). 
13) Z.C. Feng, B. Xue, P. Chen, J. Lin and W. 
Lu, “Structural and Optical Investigation 
of Copper Nanoparticle and Microfiber 
Produced by Using Carbon Nanotube as 
Templates”, Proc. of 6th IEEE 
Conference on Nanotechnology, 4-pages, 
Cincinatti, USA, July 17-20 (2006). 
14) Z. C. Feng, J. Chen, H. Tsai, J. Yang, P. 
Li, C. Wetzel, T. Detchprohm, J. Nelson, 
and I. T. Ferguson, “Optical and 
structural investigation on InGaN/GaN 
multiple quantum well light-emitting 
diodes grown on sapphire by 
metalorganic chemical vapor deposition”, 
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 6337, Sixth 
International Conference on Solid State 
Lighting, edited by Ian T. Ferguson, N. 
Narendran, T. Taguchi, Ian E. Ashdown, 
63370D 1-10 (2006). 
15) Z. C. Feng, B. Xue, P. Chen, J. Lin, W. 
Lu, N. Li and I. T. Ferguson, “Optical 
and structural studies of copper 
nanoparticles and microfibers produced 
by using carbon nanotube as templates”, 
Proc. SPIE 6321, Nanophotonic 
Materials III, edited by Zeno Gaburro, 
Stefano Cabrini, 63210H 1-8 (2006). 
16) Zhe Chuan Feng, Li-Chi Cheng, 
Chu-Wan Huang, Ying-Lang Wang, and 
T. R. Yang, “Synchrotron Radiation 
X-ray Diffraction and X-ray 
Photoelectron Spectroscopy Investigation 
on Si-based Structures for sub-micron 
Si-IC Applications”, Proceedings: 2006 
IEEE International conference on 
semiconductor electronics  (ICSE2006), 
Malysia, Nov. 29-Dec. 1, p981-984 
(2006). 
17) Zhe Chuan Feng, Li-Chi Cheng, 
Chu-Wan Huang, Ying-Lang Wang and 
T. R. Yang, “Surface science and optical 
investigation on nano-scale thin films for 
Si-based 65-nm intergrated circuits 
application”, Proceedings: The 1st 
International Workshop on Functional 
Materials and the 3rd International 
Workshop on Nanophysics and 
Nanotechnology, Vietnan, Dec. 5-9, 
p716-718 (2006). 
 
