 
2
四、研究方法 
(1)人體生理計測值資料之收集 
本研究係以人體上肢生理尺寸與輪椅模組間的相對運動關係為基礎，因此
使用者身材與體位所影響的因素就顯得特別重要，必須詳細收集最新、最完整
的人體計測值資料，了解各關節接合處之運動角度範圍，並掌握國人身材與體
位之分佈情況，最後再依據前期計畫所打下的根基，發展六連桿組運動模型的
相關機構運動理論，並據以開發專用的套裝程式，以設計出適合國人使用的運
動休閒型輪椅。 
 
(2)人椅系統運動模型的建立 
所謂的『人椅系統』係由人體與輪椅所構成的系統。本計畫擬深入探討一
個對整體人椅系統的驅動效率影響極深的因素，即高速驅動輪椅時，輪椅使用
者軀幹之前後擺動對輪椅驅動效率所造成之影響，因此本計畫將人椅系統模擬
成一個平面單迴路六連桿機構（具有三個自由度），並以可動性分析（mobility 
analysis）為基礎，找出對應的 3D 關節工作空間（joint workspace）。 
驅動輪椅高速前進時，人體與輪椅的運動關係如圖一所示，為一六連桿組
運動模型（kinematic model），包括：t , u , l , p , r , e等六支連桿，分別代表
軀幹(髖關節到肩關節)、上臂、前臂、手掌（腕部到掌心）、手輪半徑及固定桿
(手輪輪心到髖關節)，其中，髖關節為軀幹擺動的旋轉中心， t為軀幹長度，u
為上臂長度， l為前臂長度， p 為手腕到掌心的距離， r 為手輪半徑，e為輪軸
中心到髖關節的直線距離，此外，μ 為軀幹擺動的絕對角度，θ 為上臂轉動的
絕對角度，φ為上臂與前臂所夾的相對角度，ϕ為前臂與手掌所夾的相對角度。
本計畫將以此運動模型為藍本，探討人體在高速驅動輪椅時，各個主要肌肉群
如何牽動骨骼，以省力且高效率之方式推動輪椅快速前進。 
 
(3)輪椅設計系統理論之推導及電腦套裝程式之撰寫 
本計畫將利用連桿機構可動性分析及可動性合成方法，配合人體生理上的
尺寸特徵與限制條件，建立運動休閒型輪椅之運動分析與運動合成理論，推導
數學關係式，再將其轉寫為專用套裝軟體程式，用以運算出可用的關節工作空
間及最佳出力的關節工作空間，再改變輪心位置（d, h）及手輪半徑（r）之值
將最佳出力的關節工作空間之面積最大化，藉此求得最佳之輪心位置及手輪半
徑。本計畫利用此專用套裝軟體，可做快速且精確的運算，有效縮短作業時間。
本研究將以 VB 程式語言來撰寫程式，可將程式碼轉為執行檔，讓輪椅販售之
零售商不必安裝任何高價的商業軟體，即可透過 VB 的封包執行檔，輸入使用
者的各項生理資料，以達到量身定做之功效。 
 
(4)新型運動休閒型輪椅之設計、模擬與製作 
配合上述設計理論，利用機構合成方法，進行新型運動休閒型輪椅之概念
設計、細部元件設計、力學分析及動態模擬，並實際製作一原型輪椅，此原型
 
4
利用迴路方程式可寫下(1)式 
CSHSCH =+  
γαλ iii geteee =+                                                         (1) 
( ) ( ) ( )γγααλλ sincossincossincos igitie +=+++                                 (2) 
將(2)式實部與虛部平方相加，消去 γ 得到(3)式 
αλαλ sinsin2coscos2222 etetteg +++=      
( )αλ −++= cos222 etteg                                                (3) 
 
 
圖二 人椅系統簡化後五連桿組模型 
 
假設一：若手與手輪之夾角為已知角度π 或 0，則可將桿件 a 與桿件 r 合併以桿件 b
來表示，桿件 b 之長度等於桿件 a 與桿件 r 之長度相加或相減，則可將圖二之五連桿
組模型再簡化為四連桿組模型，四連桿組之長度與角度定義如圖三所示，桿件 CS、
桿件 SE、桿件 EW、桿件 CW 構成四連桿組，以 C 手輪輪心向前之水平線作為絕對
座標之 X 軸方向，C 手輪輪心向上之垂直線作為絕對座標之 Y 軸方向，δ 則為 CW
之絕對角度，由絕對座標之 X 軸方向指向 CW，逆時針取正，方程式推導過程如后： 
利用迴路方程式可寫下(4)式 
0=+−+ CSCWEWSE                                                     (4) 
當 μ=180°， b=r+a   
μ=0°  ， b=r-a 
( ) ( ) 0=+−+ ++++ γδφθαθπα iiii gebefeue                                           (5) 
將(5)式實部、虛部分離 
( ) ( )
( ) ( ) δγφθαθα
δγφθαθα
sinsinsinsin
coscoscoscos
bgfu
bgfu
=+++++−
=+++++−                                    (6) 
(6)式實部、虛部平方相加，將δ 消去得到(7)式 
( )[ ] ( ) φγθαφγθα sinsin2cos2cos2 −+−−−+ fguffg  
( )γθα −++−−−= cos22222 uggfub                                           (7) 
 
6
 
假設二：若ϕ 角已知，則可將圖二之五連桿組模型化簡為圖五之四連桿組模型，建
立θ 與φ 的關係，桿件 CS、桿件 SE、桿件 EP 及桿件 CP 構成四連桿組，以 C 手輪
輪心向前之水平線作為絕對座標之 X 軸方向，C 手輪輪心向上之垂直線作為絕對座
標之 Y 軸方向，方程式推導過程如后： 
首先可利用餘弦定理找出 v 值 
ϕcos222 faafv −+=                                                 (12) 
利用迴路方程式可寫下(12)式 
0=+−+ CSCPEPSE                                                    (13) 
( ) ( ) 01 =+−+ ++++ γβφθαθπα iiii gereveue                                            (14) 
將(14)式實部、虛部分離 
( ) ( )
( ) ( ) βγφθαθα
βγφθαθα
sinsinsinsin
coscoscoscos
1
1
rgvu
rgvu
=+++++−
=+++++−                                 (15) 
(15)式實部、虛部平方相加，將 β 消去得到(16)式 
( )[ ] ( ) 11 sinsin2cos2cos2 φγθαφγθα −+−−−+ vguvvg  
( )γθα −++−−−= cos22222 uvgvur                                         (16) 
令 ( )γθα −++−−−= cos222221 uvgvurN     
( ) uvvgN 2cos22 −−+= γθα               
( )γθα −+−= sin23 vgN  
代入(16)式，則可簡化為(17)式 
11312 sincos NNN =+ φφ                                                   (17) 
利用半角公式 
1
12
1
3
12
12
2
2
tan1
2
tan2
2
tan1
2
tan1
NNN =
⎥⎥
⎥⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢⎢
⎢⎢
⎣
⎡
⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛+
⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛
+
⎥⎥
⎥⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢⎢
⎢⎢
⎣
⎡
⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛+
⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛−
φ
φ
φ
φ
 
重新整理 
( ) 0
2
tan2
2
tan 21
1
3
12
21 =−+⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛−⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛+ NNNNN φφ                                    (18) 
設 211 NNX +=  、 32 2NX −=  、 213 NNX −= 代入(18)式可簡化為 
0
2
tan
2
tan 3121
2
1 =+⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛+⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ XXX φφ                                            (19) 
解得φ 1 為 
[ ] ⎥⎥⎦
⎤
⎢⎢⎣
⎡ −±−= −
1
31
2
221
2,11 2
4
tan2
X
XXXXφ                                           (20) 
經由角度轉換可得到 
⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡ −+= −
vf
afv
2
cos
222
1
2φ                                                    (21) 
 
8
動輪椅之生理限制範圍取交集，可獲得最佳工作範圍，如圖八所示，圖中ㄈ字型邊
界內虛線圍出的區域為最佳工作範圍，此範圍內灰階弓形體積部分則為最佳工作空
間。 
 
                               圖八 最佳出力工作空間 
 
4. 運動型輪椅設計系統之模擬分析 
由於影響輪椅的推動效率的因素包含有：手輪的大小、座椅的高度及座椅的前
後位置等，因此本研究利用 Matlab 編寫一運算程式，如圖九所示，可將輪椅結構尺寸
(手輪半徑、座椅相對輪心位置)、使用者的身材尺寸(上臂長度、前臂長度、手腕至掌
心長度、肩關節至髖關節距離、髖關節至輪心距離)及人體關節實際旋轉角度等參數輸
入，經由程式運算分別將 r 值由 200 至 300 mm 每隔 20 mm 疊代一次、λ值由 60°至
120°每隔 1°搜尋疊代、e 值由 150 至 250 mm 每隔 10 mm 搜尋疊代、α 值由 50°至 100
°每隔 10°疊代一次，在不同之 r 、λ與 e 值組合之下，計算其所對應之最佳出力工作
空間之體積，可獲得調整手輪大小、輪心與座椅位置之最佳數值( r 、d、h)，以提昇
驅動效率、降低使用者生理上的負荷。 
以下將選取[6]嬌小、中等、高大三種不同身材的輪椅使用者之靜態尺寸，如表
一所示，進行模擬測試，測試結果分別尋得所對應的 r、λ、e、d、h 與 volume 值，
如表二所示，將可作為不同身材之輪椅使用者量身訂做運動型輪椅之設計值。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-50
0
50 50
100
150
200
250
30060
80
100
θ(degree)
φ(degree)
α(degree) 
圖七 可使用工作空間 
α(degree)
 
10
表二 運動型輪椅設計值 
尺寸 嬌小身材 中等身材 高大身材
r(mm) 200 260 280 
λ(degree) 75 75 75 
e(mm) 160 210 240 
d(mm) -41.4 -54.4 -62.1 
h(mm) 154.5 202.8 231.8 
體積(mm3) 28195 28930 30271 
 
5. 運動型輪椅之輪心調節機構設計 
本研究所研發之輪椅輪心調節機構設計係由五連桿組(5-bar linkage)為出發點，利
用其具有雙自由度作動之特性來作為此調節機構最初之概念設計。以下將詳細介紹本
研究如何構思輪椅輪心之調節機構及設計過程。 
5.1 調節機構之構思 
    以連桿機構來設計輪椅之輪心調節機構，須兼具雙自由度調節與結構輕量化之條
件下，五連桿組是最符合設計需求與設計限制。圖十即為五連桿組機構，其接頭類型
均為旋轉對(Revolute Pair)，若 C 點設計為驅動輪之輪心位置，地桿位置設計於輪椅主
結構上，則此五連桿組便可達到垂直方向與水平方向之雙自由度無段調節輪心之功能。 
    此輪心調節機構已具有雙自由度調節之功能，在依照使用者之生理條件與限制來
調節適合之輪心位置後，必須限制兩個旋轉對之自由度來讓此五連桿組形成呆鏈，以
確保輪心調節機構在調節步驟完成後是穩固的。本研究認為旋轉對之鎖固方式在設計
與製造上較為複雜，因此將 B、D 兩點設計為滑動對(Prism Pair)，讓鎖固效果更為確
實，以提高輪椅結構之穩定度，變更後之調節機構骨架圖如圖十一所示，此為三個旋
轉接頭、二個滑動接頭之五連桿組，同樣以 C 點為驅動輪輪心，改為滑動接頭之滑動
件仍可達到無段調整之特性。本研究在滑動件上增加刻度之定位設計，在調節輪心過
程中，可依照刻度之位置來定位調節機構，讓左右兩側之驅動輪在輪心調節完成後，
仍可保持較佳之對稱性。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖十 五連桿組骨架圖                圖十一 輪心調節機構骨架圖 
 
5.2 輪心調節機構之調節範圍與鎖固設計 
本研究所研發之輪心調節機構係具有無段調整之特性，此特性將能確切掌握使用
者之生理條件所產生之最佳輪心位置，不會因市面上之輪心調節機構僅有之調節孔
位，而讓使用者屈就於此設計限制之情形發生。如圖十二所示，圖中紅色線段所構成
A 
B 
C 
D 
 
A 
B 
C 
D 
 
 
12
 
圖十四 運動型輪椅立體圖              圖十五 運動型輪椅正視圖 
 
7. 運動型輪椅之應力分析 
經過機構、尺寸合成及細部設計之後，接下來將進行運動型輪椅之結構力分
析，藉此確定本研究之運動型輪椅之力負荷狀況。本研究採用 COSMOS Design 
STAR 4.5 之電腦輔助分析軟體進行分析，分析之重點主要是測試當輪椅在使用狀態
時，使用者之體重加諸輪椅上，所造成結構的應力、應變及位移大小與分佈，如圖
十六、十七所示，藉此了解各部零件之強度是否足夠，以作為日後生產製造之參考。 
 
 
圖十六 主結構之應力分析                圖十七 最大應力處(螺栓) 
 
貳、參考文獻 
[1] 九 十 六 年 第 七 週 內 政 統 計 通 報 (94 年 底 身 心 障 礙 者 人 數 統 計 ) ， 
http://www.moi.gov.tw/stat/，中華民國 96 年 3 月擷取。 
[2] Pentland, W. E., and Twomey, L.T., “ Upper Limb Function in Persons with Long Term 
Paraplegia and Implications for Independence: Part I,” Paraplegia, Vol. 32, No. 4, pp. 
211-218, 1994. 
[3] Hughes, C. J., "Biomechanics of Wheelchair Propulsion as a Function of Seat Position and 
User-to-Chair Interface, " Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, vol. 73, march, 
1992, pp.263-269. 
[4] Wu, H.-W., Berglund, L. J., Su, F.-C., Yu, B., Westreich, A., Kim, K.-J., and An, K.-N., 
 
14
發明人/創作人 徐正會 
本計畫以民國 92 及 93 年之居家型輪椅之研究成果為基礎，接
續開發在高速驅動下也不會令使用者上肢受到損傷的高驅動效率
運動休閒型輪椅。研究步驟，首先將人體軀幹、上肢與手輪之人
椅系統模擬為單一迴路平面六連桿組，並以可動性分析為基礎，
結合人體計測學的人體動態尺寸量測方法，找出實際在推動輪椅
時上肢推進的角度所構成的工作空間，其次分析上肢工作空間體
積變化狀態，進而歸納影響輪椅驅動效率之因子，藉由分析結果
開發一運動休閒型輪椅銷售服務系統，其設計方法係以連桿機構
之可動性研究為依據，再根據該六連桿組模型之運動方程式編寫
套裝軟體，經由輸入使用者的生理條件與最佳出力角度範圍，再
透過電腦程式運算找出適當的輪心位置(d、h)及手輪半徑(r)之
值。最後將運動休閒型輪椅結構尺寸最適值，應用於運動休閒型輪
椅輪心調節機構之開發，此機構兼具雙自由度調節與結構輕量化之
條件，經過設計需求與限制評估，找出最合適之五連桿機構，可快
速進行輪心位置之垂直(h)與水平(d)方向調節，符合迅速、簡單及
精準之條件下製作客製化運動休閒型輪椅之目標。 
技術說明 
Based on the results of 2003 and 2004’s research projects, this 
program is focus on the exploitation of high driven efficiency sporting 
wheelchair which will not make hurts to the upper limbs of the user 
even under high driving speed. Based on the mobility analysis and 
combining the measurement methodology for human body’s dynamic 
dimension of anthropometry, first, the human body, upper limb and 
hand-wheel are defined as a six-bar linkage of singular circuit plane, 
the human-wheelchair system, to find out the joint workspace 
constituted by the angle of upper limb’s propulsion at the time when 
the wheelchair is actually propelled. Second, the variation of upper 
limb’s working space is analyzed and then the wheelchair driven 
efficiency factors are calculated. From the results of the analysis, a 
sport wheelchair sale and service system is built. According to the 
result of mobility research , a software package is developed based on 
the six-bar linkage model. The appropriate values of wheel-center (d, 
h) and hand-wheel radius (r) are obtained by computing the 
physiological conditions and optimal propel range. Finally, the best 
size of the sport wheelchair is applied to the development of sport 
wheel-center regulator. This regulator comes with double freedom 
adjustments and lightweight design which the wheel-center can be 
adjusted vertically (h) and horizontally (d). The objective of 
manufacturing custom sport wheelchairs under fast, simple and precise 
conditions is met. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
可利用之產業為輔具製造業；可開發之產品為運動休閒型輪椅。 
 
技術特點 
利用機械固力領域中的機構分析與合成之方法，建立人體驅
動運動休閒型輪椅之六連桿運動模型，進而解開運動休閒型輪椅
驅動效率之謎，並以電腦程式運算，精確的決定出最佳之運動休
閒型輪椅幾何構型(針對個別輪椅使用者量身訂做的正確輪心位
置與手輪大小)。 
                                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-027-008- 
計畫名稱 運動休閒型輪椅之可動性分析與產品研發 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
徐正會 副教授  （國立台北科技大學 機械系） 
會議時間地點 MICROPOLIS Congress Center, 3 Boulevard Ouest –Besancon, FRANCE 
會議名稱 The 12th World Congress in Mechanism and Machine Science 
發表論文題目 Research and Development of a Wheelchair Design System 
 
一、參加會議經過 
1. 國際學術會議基本資料： 
IFToMM2007 
June 17 -21, Besançon, FRANCE 
The 12th World Congress in Mechanism and Machine Science 
MICROPOLIS Congress Center  
3 Boulevard Ouest - Besancon  
phone : +33 (0)3 81 41 08 09  
Fax : +33 (0)3 81 52 18 36  
The congress is organized by the French committee:  
E-mail: secretariat@iftomm2007.com   
The topics of this conference cover those that are relevant to MMS, Mechanism 
and Machine Science, namely: Computational kinematics, Gearing and 
transmissions, Human-machine systems, Linkages and cams, Mechatronics, 
Micromechanisms, Nonlinear oscillations, Robotics, Rotor dynamics, 
                                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
The wheelchair design system developed by this study includes three parts namely design 
methodology, packaged software and the wheelchair frame with adjustable hand-rim axle. By 
regarding the movement between the upper limb and hand-rim to drive the wheelchair as a 
five-bar linkage of singular circuit plane, and utilizing the analysis method for the displacement 
movement of the bar linkage to establish the joint workspace over the upper limb, the influence 
of the wheelchair seat position and hand-rim size on joint workspace has been respectively 
investigated.  Then the trend led by the influence factor against the joint workspace has been 
analyzed and induced as the result to develop the manual wheelchair design system and 
compose an iteration program. By inputting user’s physical conditions and best strength 
exertion range, the user’s appropriate wheelchair design value will be rapidly calculated 
through the computer program, and a tailor-made wheelchair will be accomplished.   
        
Keywords: manual wheelchair, kinetic chain, bar linkage, joint workspace, upper limb, 
kinetic orbit 
 
Ⅰ. Preface  
According to the way wheelchair users handle wheelchairs, there are three types of 
wheelchairs - hand-rim, crank and rocker types.  Amongst them, hand-rim type has the highest 
utility rate at present due to its simple components, small size, foldable attribute and ease of 
carrying.  
Based on the documentary exploration (Lin Yi-Liang, 2000; Bednarczyk, 1994), a majority of 
wheelchair users feel hurt on their shoulders and wrists.  It was found that the hurt was the result 
of their overuse of upper limbs on the wheelchair.  As is the case, the current design of manual 
wheelchairs actually does not meet the user’s demand.  The studies that currently available 
(Yung Jing-Rui, 2000, Huang Yue-Chu, 1999, Cheng Chia-Chung, 1998, Hughes, 1992, Van Der 
Woude, 1988), only aimed to test manual wheelchairs prior to submitting the influence of the 
chair position and hand-rim size on wheelchair’s overall output efficiency and measuring the 
physical loading status in the process for users to move wheelchairs.  The design methodology 
for an effective manual wheelchair was not provided in those studies.  
This study will integrate the testing data of existing manual wheelchairs with the 
displacement analysis method in mechanism analysis, and aim to elevate the overall output 
efficiency of manual wheelchairs to offer an effective design methodology.  It will offer users 
with tailor-made manual wheelchairs to meet their specific requirements.  The hand-rim size 
and position of manual wheelchairs will be designed as per user’s physical conditions, so as to 
exalt the overall output efficiency of the manual wheelchair and reduce the load put on user’s 
upper limbs. 
                                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There are two degrees of freedom for the plane five-bar linkage. The movement using the 
upper limb to propel wheelchairs in this study is the propulsion made by the muscle group of 
the shoulder, the upper arm and the forearm to propel the upper arm and the forearm to operate 
the wheelchair. It is two individual inputs. If the wrist joint angle or the included angle between 
hand and hand-rim can be defined, the plane five-bar linkage will be able to be simplified as a 
plane four-bar linkage, and the two individual inputs will be mutually reliant. In this way, the 
only kinetic relationship between this bar linkage and a variety of bars will then be able to be 
defined.   
 
Ⅲ. Analysis of the mobility between the upper limb and hand-rim 
By simulating the process of using the upper limb to propel the wheelchair as a plane 
five-bar linkage, the θ  and φ  relationships under the following three conditions have been 
respectively investigated.  According to the three conditions that π  is first to be assumed as 
the included angle between the hand and hand-rim, 0 is to be assumed as the included angle 
between the hand and hand-rim, and the relation between θ  and φ  under the known wrist 
angle, the joint workspace accrued has been drawn and its characteristics have also been 
analyzed.  
There are two degrees of freedom for the plane five-bar linkage and according to the 
respective analysis of the known input situation for the three conditions as stated above together 
with the comparative kinetic relationship between bars, the plane five-bar linkage model may be 
converted into plane four-bar linkage.  With the methodology of the bar linkage displacement 
analysis (Shyu, 1990, Soni, 1979), it comes up with the relation between θ  and φ .  By 
taking the step, the mobility of the plane five-bar linkage is to be analyzed.  
Assuming the included angle between the hand and hand-rim is the angle π  or 0, the bar 
p  and bar r  as shown in fig. 1 may be represented by bar b .  The length of bar b  equals 
to the length of bar p  plus bar r  or bar p  minus bar r , so the five-bar linkage model can 
be simplified as four-bar linkage model, and the length and angle of the four-bar linkage is to be 
defined as the constitution of bar SC, bar SE, bar EW and bar CW as indicated in fig. 2.  
Based on the position of bar SC as the x axle of the absolute coordinates, the position for a 
variety of bars may be described as follows:   
1
1
0i
i
i
i
SC fe
SE ue
EW le
CW be
θ
φ
ξ
=
=
=
=
uuuv
uuuv
uuuuv
uuuuv
              (1) 
                                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
From the above, it deduces the relation between the propulsion angle and forearm 
propulsion angle in the process of wheelchair propulsion, and depicts their corresponding 
values on the plane where the cross axle is θ  and 1θ  and vertical axle is φ .  As shown in fig. 
3, an angle 1θ  propelled by the upper arm may correspond to the φ  value of two forearm 
propulsion angles.  It constitutes a tilting oval border.  Inside the border, it is constituted by 
b r p= −  whereas the area outside the border comprises b r p= + .    
 
Fig. 3. Workspace between kinetic chain and bar linkage 
 
The area at the both sides of the oval border is the workspace of the four-bar linkage.  
Within the area and the border line, the four-bar linkage may move as functioned, but at the 
zone beyond the workspace, its function will be dissolved.  
As shown in fig. 3, the left is the workspace of kinetic chain established by 1θ  and φ , 
whereas the right is the workspace of the bar linkage constituted by θ and φ .  At the same 
time, the shape and size of the kinetic chain and the bar linkage are all the same in a relation of 
translation.    
The workspace of the kinetic chain may be at any place of the plane, and the bar linkage is 
one of the bar in kinetic chain to be selected as the ground bar to solely finalize the workspace 
of the bar linkage on the plane.  The ground bar referred in this study is the f  for the 
distance between the revolving center of the shoulder joint and hand-rim axle.  When the 
position ( d  and h  value) is decided, the sole workspace of the four-bar linkage will then be 
able to be ascertained, so the workspace of the upper arm propulsion angle θ  and forearm 
propulsion angle φ  can be defined.         
While angle ϕ  is known, the five-bar linkage model as shown in fig. 1 can be simplified 
as the four-bar linkage model as shown in Fig 4, so as to establish the relationship between θ  
and φ .  With the four-bar linkage being constituted by bar SC, bar SE, bar EH and bar CH and 
using the SC position as the x axle of the absolute coordinates, the positions of a variety of bars 
may be described as below:   
                                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
[ ] 222 22 11 3312 1,2
11
4
2 tan
2
Q Q Q Q
Q
φ −
⎡ ⎤− ± −⎢ ⎥= ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
    (15) 
2 2 2
1
3 cos 2* *
w l p
w l
φ − ⎛ ⎞+ −= ⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
      (16) 
1 2 32 ( )φ π π θ φ φ= − − + +       (17) 
 
As indicated in fig. 5, ϕ  value changes from small value to large value, the range of the 
oval curve changes from small value to large value, but when it comes to a certain value, the 
range of the overall curve began to reduce.  As learned from equation (10) that the length of 
bar l  and bar p  is to be fixed, so the w  value is completely to be decided by ϕ  value.  
Also, cosϕ  value changes as per [1 0 –1 1], so w  value changes from small value to large 
value and then from large value returning to the small value.  It illustrates that the longer the 
bar w , the better its motility will be.   
 
Fig. 5. Workspace of kinetic chain with a fixed value for the wrist angle 
 
Ⅳ. Analysis of the workspace available for use  
The workspace of the upper limb and five-bar linkage model has been investigated in the 
aspect of bar linkage, but in reality, there is a limitation for the revolving angle of our upper 
limb’s joints.  As is the case, the workspace actually in use shall be analyzed from the 
revolving angle of a variety of joints in the upper limb.     
There is a certain limitation for our joints in the upper limb to revolve, so the workspace of 
the ring-type five-bar linkage model is not necessarily all applicable.  The limitation for the 
revolving angle of each joint shall be taken into account, so as to identify the workspace 
actually applied by the users to propel the wheelchair with their upper limbs. 
                                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ⅴ. The analysis of best strength exertion workspace  
As learn from the literature (Kuo Lan-Yuan, 2003), in the process of wheelchair propulsion, 
the torque rate generated from the joints in the upper limb can be indicated by wheelchair 
propulsion strength rating, WPSR).  WPSR is the torque value ratio between the maximum 
torque values generated by the joints and the maximum isometric contraction when propelling 
the wheelchair.  
   The study will use the joint’s isometric contraction muscle strength as the best strength 
exertion range to analyze the best strength exertion workspace which is in correspondence with 
the best strength exertion range in the applicable workspace.  When the upper arm gets further 
backward stretch, the torque value generated from the shoulder joint will be greater.  As is the 
case, a comfortable shoulder stretching angle is to be selected as the lower limit value for the 
best strength exertion angle of the shoulder joint. The best strength exertion angle for the elbow 
joint is based on 105o with +/- 30 o as the best strength exertion range.      
Fig. 7 shows the best strength exertion workspace.  The area with dotted lines is the range 
of the best strength exertion.  The overlap of the best strength exertion range and applicable 
workspace is the best strength exertion workspace. The area with oblique is the best strength 
exertion workspace.  
 
 
Fig. 7. Best strength exertion workspace 
   
VI. Conclusions  
Targeting hand-rim propulsion type of wheelchair, the study has simulated users to propel 
the wheelchair so as to conclude the kinetic relation of the joints of the upper limb.  By 
simulating the upper limb and hand-rim as a plane five-bar linkage, the best strength exertion 
range for the upper limb propulsion and the change of bar-linkage’s best strength exertion 
workspace have been taken into account.  The dynamic and static sizes of user’s upper limb 
and the best strength exertion angle will influence the wheelchair’s hand-rim size and the design 
                                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
73, march, 1992, pp.263-269. 
Pheasant, S., Bodyspace Anthropometry Ergonomics and Design, New York:Taylor & Francis, 1988, 
pp.135-147. 
Soni, A. H., Mechanism Synthesis and Analysis, New York:McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1979, 
pp.97-116. 
Van Der Woude, L. H. V., "Wheelchair Racing：Effects of Rim Diameter and Speed on Physiology 
and Technique, " Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, vol.20, no.5, 1988, 
pp.492-500. 
 
 
二、與會心得 
  本計畫主持人於２００７年６月１６日（星期六）晚上搭乘華航ＣＩ
６１班機，赴德國 Frankfurt 機場，轉搭遊覽車，前往法國 Besancon。
本研討會於２００７年６月１８日（星期一）上午９：００舉行 Opening 
Ceremony 及 Keynote speech。隨後於１０：４５開始，分七個 sessions 
同步進行口頭論文發表。 
  本計畫主持人的論文被編排在６月２０日（星期三）上午８：1０的 
session 4，分組代號 HMS 1（Human-Machine Systems 1）的第一篇。論
文題目是：“Research and Development of a Wheelchair Design System＂，
本計畫主持人花費了十分鐘完成論文宣讀，隨後在聽眾提問的過程中，回
答了五個問題，因為本論文係有關於輪椅使用者與輪椅所組成的「人椅系
統」的可動性研究，採用平面五連桿組建構其運動學模型，在本計畫主持
人詳細的口頭報告及投影片的輔助之下，一般聽眾皆能快速地掌握研究課
題的輪廓，提出適切的問題，所以在愉快的氣氛下結束了 Q & A，也為本
計畫主持人的論文宣讀畫下完美的句點，並留下難忘的美好記憶。 
  本計畫主持人除了宣讀論文之外，也細心聆聽其他論文發表者的精闢
報告。本研討會有來自各個會員國的論文，從作者的國籍與宣讀過程可以
感受到各個不同國家的民族性的差異：美國人的一派輕鬆幽默，日本人的
嚴肅拘謹，歐洲人的優雅舉止、、、、、，煞是有趣。 
  經過了四天的密集研討，大會最後於６月２１日結束，本計畫主持人
隨後於６月２５日返抵國門，結束了一次完美的旅程。 
                                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
本計畫主持人與同行教授們攝於會場外(2007.06.19.) 
