 1
中文摘要 
程序強化是綠色化學程序的尖端技術之一，已成為發展化工程序技術非常重要的趨
勢，隔牆蒸餾與反應蒸餾是對高耗能的傳統蒸餾實施程序強化後可獲得很明顯經濟效益的
兩大策略，本研究將此兩種技術予以結合，以一個真實轉酯化反應系統與一個理想反應中
最耗能的系統為對象，探討頗具節能潛力之反應性隔牆蒸餾的製程設計與控制策略。 
在製程設計方面，藉由反應蒸餾塔與分離塔間或分離塔與分離塔間之熱整合，轉酯化
反應性隔牆蒸餾程序不僅較傳統轉酯化反應蒸餾程序節省大量能源(省能效果隨進料量的
增加呈現大幅度增加)，且具有較佳的操作度與控制度。另外，在針對理想反應系統所提出
三種反應性隔牆蒸餾程序中，以熱整合程度最高之製程的節能效果最佳，可較傳統理想反
應蒸餾程序節省約25%能源。 
在製程控制方面，本研究利用穩態分析設計控制策略，對轉酯化反應性隔牆蒸餾程序，
藉選擇與作動變數間不具輸入多重穩態且對反應物進料量改變不敏感之板層溫度所設計的
溫度控制策略，在進料量改變時，可將程序穩定操作在期望狀態。但對理想反應性隔牆蒸
餾程序，利用開環路穩態分析所設計之溫度控制策略，在程序出現外來干擾(如進料量改變)
與內在干擾(如氣體分流比改變)時，產品純度將出現誤差，本研究提出以溫度結合濃度之串
級控制策略，可使產品純度保持在設計值。 
關鍵字: 反應蒸餾，隔牆蒸餾，反應性隔牆蒸餾，設計，控制 
Abstract 
Process intensification is one of the most important trends in green chemical process 
technology.  Dividing-wall distillation and reactive distillation are two promising applications of 
process intensification.  In this study, design and control strategies of a new process technology 
with high potential, reactive dividing-wall distillation, are investigated for an ideal reaction 
system with the least favorable relative volatility ranking and a real reaction system for the 
production of methanol and n-butyl acetate by transesterification reaction of methyl acetate and 
n-butanol. 
In process design, a reactive dividing-wall distillation process is designed for the 
transesterification reaction system by the thermal coupling between columns.  Not only energy 
consumption can be reduced but also better operability and controllability can be obtained for the 
thermally coupled process with respect to a conventionally complete process.  For the ideal 
reaction system, three reactive dividing-wall distillation processes are designed and the process 
with the highest degree of thermal coupling provides the best energy efficiency.  It can save 25% 
energy consumption than a conventional reactive distillation sequence. 
In process control, proper selection and pairing of controlled and manipulated variables 
chosen are determined by using steady-state analysis.  A simple control scheme with 
temperature control loops is sufficient to maintain product purities for the transesterification 
reaction system.  However, temperature control loops designed by open-loop steady-state 
analysis for the ideal reaction system cannot maintain product purities at their desired values 
under external disturbance in feed flow or internal disturbance such as vapor split.  A 
composition + temperature cascade scheme is proposed to reject these disturbances. 
Keywords: Reactive distillation, Dividing wall distillation, Reactive dividing-wall distillation, 
Design, Control 
case scenario for the forward reaction (extreme favorable for the backward reaction).  The 
kinetical and physical property data can also be found in their paper.  Lin [7] continued their 
research and investigated the design strategies of reactive distillation processes with excess 
reactant.  It was found that total annual cost can be substantially reduced by using excess 
reactant for the system with the least favorable relative volatility ranking.  Figure 1 shows the 
process flowsheet given by Lin [7] for the system.  The first column (C1) is a reactive 
distillation one.  Its upper section is reactive while the separation is carried out in the stripping 
section.  Products C, D, and un-reacted B are separated by the following two separation columns 
(C2 and C3).  Un-reacted B is recycled to the reactive column to mix with the fresh feed.  The 
purities of B, C, and D from the bottom of column C3, the distillate of column C2, and the 
distillate of column C3, respectively, are all set at 95 mol%.  There are five design degrees of 
freedom: boilup ratios of three columns, reflux ratios of columns C2 and C3 with only three 
product specifications for the process shown in Figure 1.  In this study, boilup ratios of columns 
C1 and C2 are used as the remaining degrees of freedom to minimize the total reboiler duty of the 
process while the other three are used to satisfy the purity specifications.  Optimal condition 
with the minimum total reboiler duty is used as the comparison basis of energy consumption with 
the reactive dividing-wall distillation processes. 
B
A
Recycle B
C D
C1
C2 C3
 
Figure 1 Process flowsheet for the ideal reaction system with excess reactant. 
In the study, three configurations of reactive dividing-wall distillation shown in Figure 2 are 
proposed to investigate the effect of different degrees of thermal coupling on energy consumption.  
Figure 2a shows the process configuration with the least degree of thermal coupling.  The 
rebolier of column C1 can be eliminated by the partially thermal coupling between columns C1 
and C2 in Figure 1.  The configuration consists of a reactive dividing-wall column and a 
separation column.  There are five design degrees of freedom for the configuration.  Boilup 
and vapor split ratios of the reactive dividing-wall column are used to minimize the total reboiler 
duty while reflux ratio at the right distillation section of dividing wall of the reactive 
dividing-wall column and reflux and boilup ratios of the separation column are used to satisfy 
three purity specifications.  The process configuration can save 8% energy consumption than the 
basis case. 
 Figure 2b shows the process configuration with two partially thermal couplings.  One is 
implemented between columns C1 and C2 in Figure 1 and the other is implemented between 
columns C2 and C3 in Figure 1.  A reactive dividing-wall distillation column with two dividing 
walls is constructed and two reboilers can be eliminated from the conventional reactive 
 3
n-butanol+methyl acetate⇌n-butyl acetate+methanol               (2) 
n-Butyl acetate and methanol are the high and low boiling products, respectively.  n-Butanol and 
methyl acetate are the high and low boiling reactants, respectively.  The yield for the 
transesterification reaction is strongly limited by the equilibrium conversion.  Kinetic data given 
by Jiménez et al. [8] for a sulfonic ion-exchange resin, Amberlyst 15, were used in the study. 
1
n-butanol
methyl acetate
methanol
n-butyl acetate
methyl acetate/methanol
methanoln-butyl acetate
methyl acetate
methyl acetate/methanol
n-butanol
(a)
(b)
 
Figure 3 Configurations of (a) a conventionally reactive distillation and (b) a reactive 
dividing-wall distillation for transesterification reaction 
Figure 3a is a schematic illustration of the conventionally complete reactive distillation 
process, including a reactive distillation column and a separation column.  n-Butanol and methyl 
acetate reactants with 100 kmol/h each are fed to the stages 28 and 43, respectively, numbering 
from the column top.  The column is operated at 1 atm.  The pressure drop in the column is 
assumed to be 0.2 atm.  The column is sized as a tray-column with diameter 2.7 m.  A liquid 
holdup of about 200 L was obtained.  We assume that a reaction volume of 50 L and catalyst of 
500 g are available on every tray in the reactive zone.  n-Butyl acetate with high-purity 99.5 
mol% is withdrawn from the column bottom.  The distillate product is a mixture of methanol 
and un-reacted methyl acetate and then fed to a separation column with 10 stages.  High 
methanol purity, 99.5 mol%, is obtained from the column bottom.  The distillate of the column, 
approximate the minimum boiling azeotrope of methanol and methyl acetate, is recycled back to 
the fresh methyl acetate feed location. 
Figure 3b shows the flowsheet of a reactive dividing-wall distillation process with thermal 
coupling.  The same stage numbers of the reactive dividing-wall distillation process as those of 
the reactive distillation column and separation column in Figure 3a, respectively, are used in the 
study to compare the energy consumption of reactive distillation processes without and with 
thermal coupling.  Liquid and vapor are interchanged between the reactive distillation column 
and separation column and then a condenser is reduced.  The maximum boiling component, 
n-butyl acetate is withdrawn from the left bottom of the reactive dividing-wall distillation column.  
The approximate homogeneous azeotrope of methanol and methyl acetate is distillated at the 
column top and recycled back to the fresh methyl acetate feed location.  High purity methanol 
with 99.5 mol% is obtained from the right bottom of the column. 
 5
assumption of no measurement bias in feed flow rate.  In industrial applications, temperature 
control is usually used instead of composition control.  Three temperature loops are used to 
maintain C, D, and B purities (95 mol%) at three outlet streams shown in Figure 3c by 
manipulating the right reflux flow, side draw flow, and reboiler duty, respectively.  To select the 
most appropriate location used for control purpose, singular value decomposition method [9] was 
used in the study.  The controlled temperatures are selected at stages 27 (T27(DW2)), 32 (T32(DW2)), 
and 58 (T58(DW2)) of the right dividing-wall section. 
Number of tray
1 6 11 16 21 26 31 36 41 46 51 56 61
Te
m
pe
ra
tu
re
 c
ha
ng
e 
(K
)
-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
Feed flow  -20%
Feed flow +20%
Number of tray
1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35
Te
m
pe
ra
tu
re
 c
ha
ng
e 
(K
)
-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
Feed flow  -20%
Feed flow +20%
Number of tray
1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35
Te
m
pe
ra
tu
re
 c
ha
ng
e 
(K
)
-3.0
-1.5
0.0
1.5
3.0
VSR1  -10%
VSR1 +10%
Number of tray
1 6 11 16 21 26 31 36 41 46 51 56 61
Te
m
pe
ra
tu
re
 c
ha
ng
e 
(K
)
-6
-3
0
3
6
VSR1  -10%
VSR1 +10%
Number of tray
1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35
Te
m
pe
ra
tu
re
 c
ha
ng
e 
(K
)
-3.0
-1.5
0.0
1.5
3.0
VSR2  -10%
VSR2 +10%
Number of tray
1 6 11 16 21 26 31 36 41 46 51 56 61
Te
m
pe
ra
tu
re
 c
ha
ng
e 
(K
)
-6
-3
0
3
6
VSR2  -10%
VSR2 +10%
 
Figure 5 Desired steady-state temperature profiles under various disturbances. 
Relative gain array (RGA) analysis is used to pair controlled stage temperatures and 
manipulated variables.  The control loop pairing is that the temperatures at stages 27, 32, and 58 
of right dividing-wall section are controlled by manipulating the reboiler duty, reflux flow, and 
side draw flow, respectively.  However, purity offsets can be observed from the dynamic results 
under temperature control for +20% changes of reactant feed flow (external disturbance) and 
+10% changes of two vapor split ratios (internal disturbance).  Figure 5 shows the desired 
steady-state temperature profiles with three product compositions kept as their respectively 
designed values for various changes of external and internal disturbances.  Different desired 
temperature profiles are found for various disturbances.  From the results of open-loop and 
close-loop sensitivity analysis methods (Wang et. al, [10]), there are almost no stage temperatures 
found to have sufficient sensitivity with manipulated variables but is almost invariant or have 
 7
 9
side of the dividing wall from the stage temperatures having no input or interaction multiplicities 
with manipulated variables and being almost invariant or having little variations with respect to 
throughput rate changes.  RGA analysis is used to pair controlled stage temperatures and 
manipulated variables.  The control loop pairing is that the temperatures at stages 13 and 38 at 
left side of the dividing wall are controlled by manipulating right side and left side reboiler duties, 
respectively.  Dynamic results reveal that controlled stage temperatures are settled at their 
corresponding set points and two product compositions can return to their desired operating 
values under temperature control for +10% feed flow disturbances. 
3. Conclusion 
 In the study, design and control of reactive dividing-wall distillation are investigated for two 
reaction systems.  One is an ideal reaction system with the least favorable relative volatility 
ranking.  The other is a real reaction system for the production of methanol and n-butyl acetate 
by transesterification reaction of methyl acetate and n-butanol.   
For the real reaction system, a reactive dividing-wall distillation process is designed by 
partially thermal coupling.  Not only energy consumption can be reduced but also better 
operability and controllability can be obtained for the process with respect to a conventionally 
complete process.  Temperature control designed by steady-state analysis is sufficient to 
maintain product purities. 
For the ideal reaction system, three reactive dividing-wall distillation processes are designed 
and the process with the highest degree of thermal coupling provides the best energy efficiency.  
Product offsets are observed under temperature control.  A composition + temperature cascade 
scheme is designed to reject external and internal disturbances. 
References  
[1] G. Dunnebier, C. C. Pantelides. “Optimal design of thermally coupled distillation columns”, 
Ind. Eng. Chem. Res., 38, pp. 162-176, 1999. 
[2] H. Rudd. “Thermal coupling for energy efficiency”, Supplement to Chem. Eng., 27 Aug, pp. 
S14-S15, 1992. 
[3] R. Agrawal, Z. T. Fidkowski. “Are thermally coupled distillation columns always 
thermodynamically more efficient for ternary distillations?”, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res., 37, pp. 
3444-3454, 1998. 
[4] M. F. Doherty, G. Buzad. “Reactive distillation by design”, Chem. Eng. Res. Des., 70, pp. 
448-458, 1992. 
[5] R. Taylor, R. Krishna. “Modelling reactive distillation”, Chem. Eng. Sci., 55, pp. 5183-5229, 
2000. 
[6] S. T. Tung, C. C. Yu. “Effects of relative volatility ranking to the design of reactive 
distillation”, AIChE J., 53, pp. 1278-1297 (2007) 
[7] L. C. Lin. Effects of relative volatility ranking to the design of reactive distillation: 
Excess-reactant design. Master’s thesis, National Taiwan University, Taiwan, 2007. 
[8] L. Jiménez, A. Garvin, J. Costa-López. “The production of butyl acetate and methanol via 
reactive and extractive distillation. I. Chemical equilibrium, kinetics, and mass-transfer 
 11
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  J 可技術移轉                                      日期：97年7月31日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：反應性隔牆蒸餾系統之設計與控制 
計畫主持人：王聖潔 
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-233 -004   學門領域：化工 
技術/創作名稱 反應性隔牆蒸餾系統之設計與控制 
發明人/創作人 王聖潔、余政靖、黃孝平、汪上曉 
中文：程序強化是綠色化學程序的尖端技術之一，已成為發展化工
程序技術非常重要的趨勢，隔牆蒸餾與反應蒸餾是對高耗能的傳統
蒸餾實施程序強化後可獲得很明顯經濟效益的兩大策略，本研究以
一個真實轉酯化反應系統與一個理想反應中最耗能之系統為對
象，探討結合此兩種技術的反應性隔牆蒸餾之製程設計與控制策
略。在製程設計方面，藉由反應蒸餾塔與分離塔間或分離塔與分
離塔間之熱整合，所設計之反應性隔牆蒸餾程序皆可較傳統反應蒸
餾程序節省大量能源。在製程控制方面，本研究利用穩態分析設計
控制策略，所設計之溫度控制策略或溫度結合濃度之串級控制策略
可使產品純度保持在設定值。 
技術說明 
英文：Process intensification is one of the most important trends in 
green chemical process technology.  Dividing-wall distillation and 
reactive distillation are two promising applications of process 
intensification.  In this study, design and control strategies of a new 
process technology with very high potential, reactive dividing-wall 
distillation, are investigated for an ideal reaction system with the least 
favorable relative volatility ranking and a real reaction system for
transesterification reaction.  In process design, reactive dividing-wall 
distillation processes are designed by thermal coupling between 
columns and can save much more energy consumption than
conventional reactive distillation sequences. In process control, 
steady-state analysis is used to design control strategies.  Proposed 
temperature control or composition + temperature cascade control 
schemes can maintain product purities at their designed values. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
石化產業、精密化學品產業 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-233 -004 
計畫名稱 反應性隔牆蒸餾系統之設計與控制 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
王聖潔 
大華技術學院化材系教授 
會議時間地點 2007.8.15~2007.8.18 中國西安市 
會議名稱 PSE ASIA 2007 - The 4
th International Symposium on Design, Operation & 
Control of Chemical Processes 
發表論文題目 
1. Design and Control of a Reactive Distillation System with Partial Thermal 
Coupling (附件一，本人與清華大學汪上曉教授的研究成果) 
2. Internal Heat Integration and its Effect to Process Dynamics and Control ― 
A MTBE Reactive Distillation Column (附件二，本人與中國北京化工大學
Huang Kejin教授的研究成果) 
 
一、參加會議經過 
第四屆PSE Asia國際學術研討會在2007年8月15日至18日於中國西安市交通大學舉行。本
次研討會參與者涵蓋亞洲各地從事化學程序之設計、操作與控制的專家學者們。本人搭乘長
榮航空編號BR855班機於8月14日下午抵達香港，再轉搭中國西南航空編號MU204班機至西安
市，並住進西安賓館。  
大會安排之註冊時間為8月15日下午兩點至七點，並在當天晚上舉辦一個歡迎會，研討會
論文發表正式於8月16日在西安交通大學內展開，在研討會主持人致簡短歡迎辭後隨即展開當
天上午的議程，是安排五位演講者做專題的報告，演講人與報告題目分別是: 
1. Dr. Wang Jiming - Process System Engineering Technology and Sustainable Development of 
SINOPEC 
2. Dr. Smith, Robin - Modelling and Optimization of Process Utility Systems 
3. Dr. Chen, Cheng-Liang - Advanced in Process Integration for Batch Processes: Synthesis of A 
Continuously Operated Mass Exchanger Network for A Semi-Consecutive Process 
4. Dr. Floudas, Christodoulos A - Novel Framework for Short-term and Medium-term Scheduling 
of Large-scale Industrial Continuous Plants 
5. Dr. Lee, Tai-yong - A New Solution Algorithm for General Constrained Twice-Differentiable 
NLP Problems 
下午則是各領域之學者專家的論文口頭報告。領域包括:Dynamics & Control (A)、Process & 
Product Design (B)、Modeling & Simulation (F)與Operation & Optimization (G)  
8月17日上午安排的是與8月16日下午相同領域之學者專家的論文口頭報告，下午則安排三
位專家學者的專題報告，演講人與報告題目分別是: 
1. Dr. Yamashita - Yoshiyuki Toward Dependable Process Control Systems: Integration of Fault 
Diagnosis and Controller Redesign 
附件一 
Design and Control of a Reactive Distillation System with Partial 
Thermal Coupling 
San Jang Wang ∗,a, David Shan-Hill Wongb
aDepartment of Chemical and Material Engineering, Ta Hwa Institute of Technology, Chiunglin,
 Hsinchu 
bDepartment of Chemical Engineering, Tsing Hua University, HsinChu 
 
Abstract 
Process intensification is a design philosophy that deliberately integrates different processes into a single 
operation to reduce energy consumption and capital investment.  Reactive distillation and thermally coupled 
distillation are the successful examples of process intensifications.  In the study, the design and control strategies 
of a reactive distillation system with partial thermal coupling for the production of methanol and n-butyl acetate by 
transesterification of methyl acetate and n-butanol are investigated.  Since methanol and methyl acetate formed 
an azeotrope, the products of a reactive distillation column include n-butyl acetate and the mixture of methanol and 
methyl acetate, which must be separated by an additional column.  Partial thermal coupling can be used to 
eliminate the condenser of the second column.  Not only energy reduction but also better operability can be 
obtained for the thermally coupled reactive distillation system.  The keys of controlling the system, in which the 
reaction is kinetically controlled, are (1) to maintain the quality of two products, (2) to maintain the correct 
stoichiometric balance between the feeds, (3) to account for possible changes in control objective when throughput 
rate changes.  Proper selection and pairing of controlled and manipulated variables chosen for these three 
objectives were determined by using steady-state analysis.  A simple control scheme with three temperature 
control loops is sufficient to maintain product purities. 
Keywords: Reactive distillation; Thermal coupling, Design and control, Transesterification reaction 
1 INTRODUCTION 
Process intensification is a design philosophy that deliberately integrates different processes 
into a single operation to reduce energy consumption and capital investment.  Reactive 
distillation and thermally coupled distillation are the successful examples of process 
intensifications. 
Reactive distillation has become one of the extensively researched process intensification 
methods due to its ability to reduce energy consumption and number of process units.  Research 
on reactive distillation has been comprehensively reviewed by Doherty and Buzad[1] and Taylor 
and Krishna.[2]  One of the processes that can make effective use of reactive distillation is the 
production of methanol and n-butyl acetate by the transesterification of methyl acetate and 
n-butanol.  Like esterification, transesterification is a typical equilibrium-limited reaction.  
Therefore, reactive distillation is used to improve conversion.  There are two non-reactive 
azeotropes (methyl acetate-methanol, n-butanol–n-butyl acetate) present in the transesterification 
                                                        
Manuscript received April 28, 2007 
∗ To whom correspondence should be addressed.  E-mail: cewsj@et4.thit.edu.tw 
附件一 
 Figure 1a is a schematic illustration of the conventionally complete reactive distillation 
process, including a reactive distillation column preceding the transesterification reaction of 
n-butanol and methyl acetate and a separation column for reactant recovery.  There are three 
zones in the reactive distillation column with 27 (including a total condenser), 16, and 7 (including 
a partial reboiler) equilibrium stages in the rectification, reaction, and stripping zones respectively.  
Rectification zone and stripping zone operate as a non-reactive distillation column, purifying top 
and bottom products.  n-Butyl acetate and methanol are formed in the reaction zone and 
withdrawn from the column bottom and top, respectively. 
methanol (99.5mol%) 
NBA (99.5mol%) 
MA
50
MA/methanol 
n-butanol 28 
43
12 
10 
1
1
28 
43 
1 
10 n-butanol 
MA 
methanol (99.5mol%) 
NBA (99.5mol%) 
MA/methanol
50 
 
Figure 1 Transesterification distillation configuration (a) without and (b) with thermal 
coupling. 
n-Butanol and methyl acetate reactants with 100 kmol/h each are fed to the stages 28 and 43, 
respectively, numbering from the column top.  The column is operated at 1 atm.  The pressure 
drop in the column is assumed to be 0.2 atm.  The column is sized as a tray-column with 
diameter 2.7 m.  A liquid holdup of about 300 L was obtained.  We assume that a reaction 
volume of 50 L and catalyst of 500 g are available on every tray in the reactive section.  n-Butyl 
acetate with high-purity 99.5 mol% is withdrawn from the column bottom.  The distillate product 
is a mixture of methanol and un-reacted methyl acetate and then fed to a separation column with 
10 stages.  High methanol purity, 99.5 mol%, is obtained from the column bottom.  The 
distillate of the column, approximate the minimum boiling azeotrope of methanol and methyl 
acetate, is recycled back to the fresh methyl acetate feed location. 
3 DESIGN OF REACTIVE DISTILLATION PROCESS WITH THERMAL COUPLING 
Figure 1b shows the flowsheet of a reactive distillation process with thermal coupling.  The 
same stage numbers of a reactive distillation column and a side stripper column as those of the 
reactive distillation column and the separation column in Figure 1a, respectively, is used in the 
study to compare the energy consumption of reactive distillation processes without and with 
thermal coupling.  Liquid and vapor are interchanged between these two units and then a 
condenser is reduced.  The maximum boiling component, n-butyl acetate is withdrawn from the 
column bottom of the reactive distillation.  The homogeneous azeotrope of methanol and methyl 
附件一 
4 TEMPERATURE CONTROL OF REACTIVE DISTILLATION PROCESS WITH 
THERMAL COUPLING 
There are three keys to controlling the reactive distillation process with thermal coupling: (1) 
to maintain the correct stoichiometric balance between the feeds, (2) to maintain the product 
quality, (3) to account for possible changes in control objective when throughput rate changes. 
The stoichiometric balance between the reactant feeds must be maintained when operating a 
reactive distillation column.  Feed ratio control is the simplest way to maintain the balance.  
However, when there is a measurement bias in feed flow rate, the feed-ratio control scheme will 
not be able to keep the desired feed ratio.  To overcome this problem, the reactant composition of 
some column stage can be controlled by the reactant feed flow.  In industrial applications, 
temperature control is usually used instead of composition control.  The internal composition 
loop is replaced in the study by an internal temperature loop.  Methyl acetate and n-butanol feed 
flows are two candidates for the manipulated variable of the internal temperature control.  From 
the sensitivity analysis of these two feed flows and stage temperatures, input multiplicity is found 
just around the nominal operating point between methyl acetate feed and temperatures of stages 35 
to 50 of reactive distillation column.  However, there is also input multiplicity between n-butanol 
feed and temperatures of stages 3 to 10 of the side stripper column. 
To maintain high-purity n-butyl acetate and methanol at two column bottoms, respectively, 
two temperature loops can be used, in which two stage temperatures are maintained by 
manipulating the reboiler duties of the two columns.  From the sensitivity analysis of stage 
temperatures and two reboiler duties of reactive distillation column and side stripper column, 
respectively, input multiplicity occurs between the two reboiler duties and the temperatures of 
stages 3 to 10 of the side stripper column.  Wang et al.[6] showed that interaction multiplicity is 
one of the most important factors to be considered in selecting the manipulated variable.  The 
stage temperatures with input multiplicity or interaction multiplicity with manipulated variables 
should not be used as controlled variables to avoid the problem of control stability.  From the 
results of steady-state sensitivity analysis, temperatures of stages 35 to 50 of the reactive 
distillation column and those of stages 3 to 10 of the side stripper column cannot be used as 
controlled variable candidates due to the input multiplicity or interaction multiplicity if methyl 
acetate feed flow is used as the manipulated variable.  However, only the temperatures of stages 
1 to 10 of the side stripper column occurs input multiplicity or interaction multiplicity and 
therefore more stage temperature can be used as the controlled variable candidates when n-butanol 
feed flow is used as the manipulated variable.  Therefore, n-butanol feed flow is chosen in the 
study as the manipulated variable to maintain reactant inventory in the process. 
Different desired temperature profiles are found from steady-state analysis when both 
methyl acetate and n-butanol feed flows are simultaneously increased or decreased by the same 
amounts, 10%, and with bottom methanol and n-butyl acetate mole fractions kept as their 
respectively designed values.  The temperatures except those between stages 23 and 31 are 
almost invariant or have little variations with respect to throughput rate changes and can thus be 
used as the candidates of controlled variables in temperature loops. 
附件二 
Internal Heat Integration and its Effect to Process Dynamics and
 Control― A MTBE Reactive Distillation Column 
Kejin Huang ∗,a, San Jang Wang b
aSchool of Information Science and Technology, 
Beijing University of Chemical Technology, Beijing 10039, People’s Republic of China 
bDepartment of Chemical and Material Engineering, Ta Hwa Institute of Technology, Chiunglin,
 Hsinchu, Taiwan 
 
 
Abstract 
Seeking further internal heat integration between reaction operation and separation operation is investigated 
in the study during the synthesis, design, and operation of a reactive distillation column synthesizing MTBE from 
methanol and isobutylene.  Although the MTBE reactive distillation column is characterized by complicated 
thermodynamic properties and multiple steady states, a substantial reduction of energy consumption and capital 
investment can still be achieved with the consideration of further internal heat integration between the reaction 
operation and the separation operation in the two steady states existed. Dynamics and operation of the resultant 
process designs are then examined in terms of static and dynamic analysis and sharp improvement in process 
dynamics and controllability is clearly identified through intensive comparison against the simple process design 
without the consideration of further internal heat integration between the reaction operation and the separation 
operation involved. It is demonstrated that the more synergistic relationship evolved during the reinforcement of 
internal heat integration should account for the dramatic improvement in process dynamics and controllability. 
Keywords: Reactive distillation; Internal heat integration; Process synthesis; Process design; Process control 
1 INTRODUCTION 
Combination of reaction operation and separation operation is a primary thrust that renders a 
reactive distillation column with many advantages over the process design by conventional design 
philosophy.  Unfortunately, it also gives rise to a complicated coordination problem in process 
development between the reaction operation and the separation operation involved.  In fact, if the 
coordination problem fails to be tackled effectively in process synthesis and design, a considerable 
degradation in system performance might be experienced.  In case of a reactive distillation 
column involving reactions with highly thermal effect, combination of the reaction operation and 
the separation operation may even exhibit a dominant influence on the possibility of internal heat 
integration between the reaction operation and the separation operation involved and thus the 
thermodynamic efficiency of the resultant process design.  Huang et al.[1], [2] investigated the 
effect of seeking further internal heat integration between reaction operation and separation 
operation in the synthesis, design, and operation of two hypothetical ideal reactive distillation 
columns containing respectively a highly exothermic reaction and a highly endothermic one.  To 
further ascertain its static and dynamic effect necessitates certainly the consideration of further 
                                                        
Manuscript received July 5, 2007 
∗ To whom correspondence should be addressed.  E-mail: huangkj@mail.buct.edu.cn 
附件二 
section onto the stripping section and the movement of the feed location of the relevant reactant 
within the reactive section, respectively. 
MTBE is produced by a reversible exothermic reaction of methanol and isobutylene in the 
presence of either a heterogeneous catalyst, e.g., a strong acidic ion exchange resin or a 
homogeneous catalyst, e.g., sulfuric acid.  In this work, the reaction catalyzed by sulfuric acid is 
to be investigated.  The synthesis of MTBE often employs a mixed C4 feed of isobutylene and 
n–butane.  In this work, a C4 vapor at 350 K, comprised of 36 mol % isobutylene and 64 mol % 
inert n–butene, is employed to react with a pure methanol liquid at 320 K.  The process possesses 
a three sectional configuration: 2/8/5, in addition to a total condenser at the top and a partial 
reboiler at the bottom.  The top and bottom products are specified to be 84 mol % and 90 mol % 
for n–butene and MTBE, respectively, in order to achieve a conversion rate of about 80 mol % (in 
terms of i–butene).  Every reactive stage is assumed to be in chemical equilibrium and the Eq. 1 
is used to represent the temperature dependence of reaction equilibrium constant (Al–Jarallah et 
al.[3]).  Other relevant thermodynamic properties can also be found in the reference. 
Ln Keq = –16.33 + 6820/T                        (1) 
Table 1 Effect of seeking further internal heat integration in the MTBE reactive distillation 
column 
steady state I 
Evaluations Parameter 
Process design 
Process 
configurations
Condenser duty 
(MW) 
Reboiler duty 
(MW) 
Condenser Reboiler 
Basic process design 2/8/5 145.70 133.36 100% 100% 
Raising C4 feed location six 
stages from the bottom of reactive 
section 
2/8(6)/5 126.89 114.55 87.09% 85.90% 
Combinatorial use of the methods 
of internal heat integration 2/8(6)/5(3) 87.33 74.92 59.94% 56.18% 
Final process design 2/8(6)/8(3) 48.66 36.08 33.40 27.06 
steady state II 
Evaluations Parameter 
Process design 
Process 
configurations
Condenser duty 
(MW) 
Reboiler duty 
(MW) 
Condenser Reboiler 
Basic process design 2/8/5 44.87 32.36 100% 100% 
Lowering MEOH feed location 
four stages from the top of 
reactive section 
2/8(4)/5 25.99 13.56 57.92% 41.90% 
Final process design 2/8(4)/8 25.81 13.38 57.52% 41.35% 
Searches for the operating condition that met the design specification given were conducted 
and two steady states I and II (input multiplicities) were actually found.  The effect of seeking 
further internal heat integration between the reaction operation and the separation operation in 
steady state I is demonstrated in Table 1.  In comparison with the basic process design, 2/8/5, 
附件二 
3. STEADY STATE OPERABILITY ANALYSIS 
The keys to controlling a reactive distillation column in which the reaction is 
equilibrium–limited are to maintain the product composition as well as the stoichiometric balance 
between the reactant feeds.  emperature control is used in the study to accomplish these control 
keys and singular value decomposition method (SVD) (Luyben[6]) is used to select the controlled 
stage temperatures.  Based on the method, the temperature of stages, 8, 10, and 17 were selected 
as the controlled variables for the basic process design, 2/8/5, and the temperatures of stages, 6, 14, 
and 16 for the process design, 2/8(6)/8(3) in steady state I.  The manipulated variables are the 
reflux flow rate, methanol feed flow rate, and reboiler heat duty.  Relative gain array (RGA) was 
calculated and shown in Table 2 for these process designs.  Based on the RGA, one can readily 
find that a less degree of interactions between these control loops and thus much better 
controllability were resulted in 2/8(6)/8(3) than in 2/8/5.  Since the magnitude of the RGA 
elements is also a good indication of the sensitivity to process uncertainties, the dramatic 
reduction in the size of RGA elements pointed out that the sensitivity to process uncertainties was, 
by a certain extent, suppressed after the reinforcement of internal heat integration in the MTBE 
reactive distillation column. 
Table 2 RGA for the process designs, 2/8/5 and 2/8(6)/8(3), in steady state I 
2/8/5 2/8(6)/8(3) 
M.V.
C.V. 
QREB RR FMEOH M.V.
C.V. 
RR FMEOH QREB
T8 34.94 –34.97 1.03 T6 2.71 –0.51 –1.20 
T10 –23.96 27.59 –2.63 T14 –2.41 1.99 1.42 
T17 –9.98 8.38 2.60 T16 0.70 –0.48 0.78 
Likewise, the temperatures of stages, 4, 14, and 16 were selected by the SVD method as the 
controlled variables for the basic process design, 2/8/5, and the temperatures of stages, 7, 10, and 
16 for the process design, 2/8(4)/8 in steady state II.  The RGA is shown in Table 3 for these 
process designs.  It can be readily seen that the former was inferior to the latter in the aspect of 
process controllability and the sensitivity to process uncertainties, implying the positive effect 
from the reinforcement of internal heat integration between the reaction operation and the 
separation operation involved. 
Table 3 RGA for the process designs, 2/8/5 and 2/8(4)/8, in steady state II 
2/8/5 2/8(4)/8 
M.V.
C.V. 
RR FMEOH QREB M.V.
C.V. 
RR FMEOH QREB
T4 0.54 0.57 –0.11 T7 1.84 0.05 –0.89 
T14 43.83 3.02 –45.85 T10 0.90 0.94 –0.84 
T16 –43.37 –2.59 46.96 T16 –1.74 0.01 2.73 
 
4. CLOSED–LOOP CONTROL 
