3. To maintain routing information, sensor nodes must periodically broadcast control messages to
neighbor nodes. In large-scale wireless sensor networks, the overall control overhead leads to large
power consumption to deplete the lifetime of WSNs.
In this paper, we propose a Hierarchical Role-based Data Dissemination approach (HRDD) for provid-
ing a scalable and energy-efficient data dissemination with multiple mobile sinks in WSNs. We adopt
clustering techniques to build a hierarchical structure so that each mobile sink can easily maintain its
data dissemination paths. HRDD assigns the special roles, index agent and gateway Agent, to some
nodes to greatly improve overall system scalability and lifetime. HRDD settles the data dissemination
challenges in WSNs :
S1. We exploit a clustering algorithm [1] to discover the initial location and construct a specific struc-
ture to maintain the routing paths without the help of GPS devices.
S2. For efficient tracking, we set some nodes, named Index Agents, to form a virtual infrastructure
formed for routing, data aggregation and data dissemination.
S3. Without periodically broadcasting messages, HRDD delegates specific nodes to perform deliver
tasks. Moreover, we adopt hierarchical-based approach to construct a two-tier architecture to bal-
ance the load of transferring messages.
To evaluate the performance of HRDD, several experiments are conducted. The experimental results
show that the proposed Hierarchical Role-based Data Dissemination (HRDD) reduces the total energy
consumption of the WSNs by 50%, achieves longer network lifetime, and outperforms our counterpart
Hierarchical Cluster-based Data Dissemination (HCDD) [9] in terms of total transmission overhead.
2 Hierarchical-based dissemination schemes
In 2005, a hierarchical-based dissemination scheme is proposed, named Hierarchical Data Dissemina-
tion Scheme (HDDS) [13]. A source routes data towards sinks using a hierarchy of randomly selected
dissemination nodes. Because dissemination nodes have limited resources, whenever a dissemination
node is overloaded, it inserts another level of dissemination nodes to reduce its load. For an energy-
efficient communication scheme, data forwarding path is close to the shortest route since this path
optimization is essential to prolong lifetime of sensor networks. HDDS follows a data transmission
policy that forwards data to the forwarding agent directly. Thus, data may take a shorter path, and the
total energy consumption and delay can be reduced.
Next, a scheme named Hierarchical Cluster-based Data Dissemination (HCDD) [9] is proposed to
discover and maintain the routing paths for distributing data to the mobile sink, as shown in Figure 1.
In HCDD, all nodes distributedly build a cluster structure without the location information, so each
node only has to exchange the information with its neighboring nodes. There are three steps in HCDD.
Step 1. Cluster Construction: All nodes are divided into multilevel clusters by Max-Min D-Cluster
Formation Algorithm [1], and each cluster will designate a node as the cluster head (CH). After the
cluster construction, all of CHs in the highest hierarchical level CHs, called routing agent, should
keep dynamic global information, i.e. the sink information and routing information.
2
(a) Low-level Clustering (b) High-level Clustering
Figure 2: An Example of Hierarchical Role-based Data Dissemination (HRDD)
Step 4. Sink Location Registration
Before issuing a query, each sink will register its location information to all high-level CHs through
Gateway Agents.
Step 5. Data Forwarding
When an Indexing Agent has the relevant data which a sink queries, the data will be forwarded to
the sink by the reverse path.
The details of each procedure are presented in the following subsections.
3.1 Cluster Construction
Considering the implementation cost and network scale, we exploit the Max-Min D-Cluster Formation
Algorithm [1] as the load-balanced clustering algorithm. The Max-Min D-Cluster algorithm guarantees
that no node is more than D hops away from its CH. After the Max-Min D-cluster algorithm, CHs form
a virtual backbone and may be used to route packets for nodes in their cluster. These CHs are called
low-level CHs. Then, Max-Min D-cluster algorithm is performed on the low-level CHs to form high-
level clusters.
3.2 Selection of Indexing Agent and Gateway Agent
After the cluster construction, the high-level CHs are aware of local information, i.e. the information of
low-level clusters and the neighboring high-level clusters. The agent selecting algorithm is proposed to
assign indexing agents and gateway agents by the local information. The main idea of agent selecting
algorithm is selecting a set of nodes to play two roles.
(1) Indexing Agents:
4
Table 1: Agent selecting for high-level CH 73’s Indexing Agents
Agent candid.
Node 35
Node 7
Node 1
Neigh. clusters Conn. neigh. clusters
C65 CNC35={C65}
C85 CNC7={C85}
C100 CNC1={C85, C100}
Round Agent Candidate Selected Agent
1 Node 35(1), node 7(1), node 1(2) Node 1
2 Node 35(1) Node 35
For example: Table 1 shows the example of the second phase in agent selecting algorithm for indexing
agents for high-level CH 73. We briefly define some notations in this example. Ci represents the cluster
whose CH is node i. CNCi is the set of clusters connecting with node node i. First, high-level CH 73
has the information of agent candidate nodes and neighboring clusters, and lists all agent candidates
node 35, 7 and 1 with their connecting neighboring clusters CNCi. Then, high-level CH 73 selects node
i to be an agent, where node i=max(|CNCi|, |CNC j |), for j is the number of agent candidates. Once an
node i becomes a selected agent, high-level CH 73 eliminates any cluster Ck in CNC j if (Ck∈CNCi and
Ck∈CNC j) for i6=j. If |CNC j |= /0, then node j is weeded out. If no any node exists, then we finish the
selection procedure.
When the agent selecting algorithm has finished, high-level CH sends messages to those nodes
selected to be agents. Once being selected as index agents, these nodes will collect the information of
neighboring low-level clusters which they are responsible for. Gateway agents will wait for registration
messages from mobile sinks and then transmit these messages to neighboring high-level clusters.
3.3 Event Detection
HRDD proactively exploits indexing agents to support the target mobility. In the event detection, we
can classify all possible situations into the following cases:
Case 1: Static event
When a source detects an event, the sensing data are sent towards the local low-level CH. After that,
local low-level CH informs its indexing agent by an event information message including his own ID
and the event type.
Case 2: Moving events around the same local low-level CH
When an event moves, the source is changed accordingly. Since the event only moves nearby, the new
source may be still in the range of the same local low-level CH . Therefore, the sensing data are also
stored in the same local CH.
Case 3: Moving events into the range of different local low-level CH
When the event moves to the new location within different local low-level CH, the sensing data are sent
towards the new local low-level CH. When the old source found that an event expired, the old source
will delete the sensing data of the target and informs its indexing agent. Also, the new local low-level
CH should inform its event information message to the indexing agent.
6
Table 2: Simulation Parameters
Parameter Value
Field size 1000×1000 m2
Number of nodes 1500
Number of sinks 6
Number of targets 30
Speed of sink and target 5−10 m/sec
D hops 2
Query packet size 76 bytes
Data packet size 59 bytes
Initial energy 2 J
Eelec 50 nJ
ε f s 10 pJ/bit/m2
εap 0.0013 pJ/bit/m4
Query generation period 100.0 sec
Simulation time 18000.0 sec
For example: We illustrate data forwarding in Figure 4. In phase 1, the sink first issues a query to
the other high-level CHs node 89, 92 and 99 through its high-level local CH node 73. Node 89, 92 and
99 will forward the sink’s query to their indexing agents node 59, 30 and 27, respectively. Indexing
agent node 55 will discover that the event data are under node 77. Next, node 77 delivers the event date
to its high-level CH node 89, and high-level node 89 sends the event data to sink’s high-level CH node
73. Finally, high-level node CH 73 dispatches the event data to the sink by the sink’s low-level CH
node 100 and low-level node 61.
4 PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
In this section, we evaluate the performance of HRDD by simulations. We first describe our simulator
implementation, simulation environment and metrics in Section 4.1. Then we compare HRDD with its
counterpart HCDD on the effect of the number of nodes in Sections 4.2. The results show HRDD has
the better efficiency and scalability in delivering data from sources to multiple mobile sinks.
4.1 Simulation Environmental and Metrics
We develop a simulator based on JSIM [10] to evaluate and compare HRDD with HCDD. The mobility
of sinks and targets follows the standard Random WayPoint Model [4]. Table 2 lists the parameters in
the simulation.
4.2 Impact of the Number of Nodes
In general, the more nodes are, the more high-level CHs exist. More high-level CHs may increase
the registration messages and data messages greatly. Figure 5 shows the total messages at different
numbers of sensor nodes. In sink location registration procedure, since gateway agent could help to
8
Figure 7: Network lifetime vs. number of nodes
more suitable for large-scale wireless sensor networks.
5 CONCLUSIONS
In this paper, we has proposed a Hierarchical Role-based Data Dissemination (HRDD) scheme for
data dissemination with multiple mobile sinks in WSNs. We assign two roles, indexing agent and
gateway agent to decrease the energy consumption of broadcasting and number of flooding messages.
Simulations results have shown that HRDD is more efficient than prior work in conserving the battery
energy.
References
[1] A. D. Amis, R. Prakash, T. H. Vuong, and D. T. Huynh. Max-min d-cluster formation in wireless
ad hoc networks. Proceedings of the 19th IEEE INFOCOM Conference, 2000.
[2] S. Basagni. Distributed clustering algorithm for ad hoc networks. Proceedings of the 4th Interna-
tional Symposium on Parallel Architectures, Algorithms and Networks, 1999.
[3] S. Basagni, A. Carosi, E. Melachrinoudis, C. Petrioli, and Z. M. Wang. Controlled sink mo-
bility for prolonging wireless sensor networks lifetime. ACM/Springer Wireless Networks, 14,
No.6:831–858, 2007.
[4] T. Camp, J. Boleng, and V. Davies. A survey of mobility models for ad hoc network research.
Wireless Communications & Mobile Computing: Special issue on Mobile Ad Hoc Networking:
Research, Trends and Applications, 2:483–502, 2002.
[5] A. Cerpa, J. Elson, D. Estrin, L. Girod, M. Hamilton, and J. Zhao. Habitat monitoring: Applica-
tion driver for wireless communications technology. ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communica-
tion Review, 2001.
[6] M. Chatterjee, S. K. Das, and D. Turgut. Wca: A weighted clustering algorithm for mobile ad hoc
networks. Journal of Cluster Computing (Special Issue on Mobile Ad hocNetworks), 5, (2),:193–
204, 2002.
10
國立交通大學博士班研究生 
出席國際會議報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
報告人姓名 邱士銓 報告日期 2009.12.16 
系所及年級 
資訊工程所 
博士班五年級 
核定文號  
連絡電話 0911642005 電子信箱 scchiu@cs.nctu.edu.tw 
會議期間 
2009.12.14~2009.12.1
6 
會議地點 San Diego, USA 
會議名稱 
（中文）  IEEE International Symposium on Multimedia (ISM2009) 
workshop on Advances in Music Information Research  
（英文）  IEEE International Symposium on Multimedia (ISM2009) 
workshop on Advances in Music Information Research   
發表論文題
目 
（中文）自動鋼琴縮減式編曲系統 
（英文）Automatic System for the Arrangement of Piano Reductions 
教了 Native English speaker的朋友，學習到了很多更正式地一
些用語與說法，還有問題的回答。除了自己的報告外，也聽了 Keynote 
Speech 與許多其他研究者的研究發表，其中有一場是來自 HP-Lab
的華人博士 Shu-Ching Chen 介紹智慧型多媒體內容的產生，提到了
許多有關多媒體技術，包含多媒體資料標籤，多媒體內容的擷取與
搜尋，套討如何更有效率的使用多媒體的資料；另一場是我投稿的
workshop所舉辦的 keynote speech，請到的是 Yahoo!Music 的
Malcolm Slaney 博士，探討的是音樂在快速網際網路下的研究議
題，包含如何達成線上合奏並克服網際網路傳輸上的問題等。 
從 Keynote Speech 更能了解未來多媒體領域研究的趨勢。 
在 Regular Paper 的研究發表，聽到了各種廣泛的主題，包含討論
音樂相似度的 similarity function 的設計並使用各種的不同層次
的特徵值來實驗；針對流行搖滾的音樂，使用接續二和弦的樣式來
做旋律與歌詞的分段…等。在 Coffee Break 中，與來自 Barry大學
的莊靜華教授也有廣泛的交流，除了研究方面的討論，莊教授因為
從台大畢業的關係，也提到了許多他對台灣在電腦音樂學術研究環
境的了解與看法，並對研究生涯的規劃提出了許多的寶貴建議。參
加此次研討會，也透過各種形式的交流，了解很多真實、正在尋求
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
協助辦理今年底舉辦之 Conference on Technologies and Applications of 
Artificial Intelligence 2010 研討會。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
