  共 13頁 第 2頁 
一、中英文摘要 
關鍵詞：行動計算，個人通訊服務，正交可變展頻係數碼，寬頻分碼多工系統，無線通訊。 
 
寬頻分碼多工系統(WCDMA) 是第三代行動通訊標準所採用的無線通訊技術之一，在此環
境下，使用正交可變展頻係數碼(OVSF code)可以選擇不同的傳送速度，因此可更有彈性的
提供使用者不同速度需求的服務。在標準中，正交可變展頻係數碼的分配，是以使用者的
最大傳送速度為依據。但因為使用者不是一直都以最大速度傳送，因此，這樣的分配方法
可能造成系統使用率不高的問題。為提高寬頻分碼多工系統的使用效率，一個可行的方法，
是讓每一個正交可變展頻係數碼可以被多個使用者分時共享。允許分時共享表示除了正交 
碼的分配策略外，還需要一個排程的演算法，以決定各使用者的使用時機。 
允許分時共享正交可變展頻係數碼的另一個好處，是可以解決內部碎裂(internal 
fragmentation)的問題。內部碎裂指的是系統用過多的資源去滿足使用者的需求。會造成內
部碎裂原因，是寬頻分碼多工系統僅提供2 的指數倍的傳送速度；因此，有時系統必須以
高過使用者要求的傳輸速度來服務使用者。若允許分時共享，則可設法找出多個使用者，
讓這些使用者的連線需求總和恰等為2 的某一指數次方，這樣一來，這些使用者便共用一
個正交碼而完全消除了內部碎裂。這個問題其實就是＂多重背包問題＂ (multiple knapsack 
problem)。 
本計劃所提出分時共享策略考慮了頻道狀態，並提出如何正確地選擇用戶、進行排程，
以分享適當的正交可變展頻因子碼。透過模擬，我們證實了本計劃所提出的策略能有效率
地使用有限的無線頻寬。 
 
Keywords: Mobile computing, Personal communication services, OVSF, WCDMA, Wireless 
communication,3G. 
 
WCDMA was selected as one of the technologies in the 3G wireless standards. The use of OVSF 
codes in the WCDMA system can provide variable data rates to flexibly support applications with 
different bandwidth requirements. In 3G standards, OVSF codes are assigned to users according 
to their maximum transmission rate. However, such an allocation mechanism may result in low 
system utilization since users are not always transmitting at full speed. One possible way to 
increase system utilization is to share OVSF codes among users. Allowing time sharing means 
that we need a scheduling strategy to decide “which code can be shared by which set of users at 
what time”. 
Another benefit of time-sharing OVSF codes is that it helps to solve internal fragmentation 
problem. Internal fragmentation occurs when the allocated data rate is larger than what is 
requested. We formulate the internal fragmentation problem as a “multiple knapsack problem” 
where each OVSF code is considered as a knapsack. We show that internal fragmentation can be 
totally eliminated if OVSF codes are shared by multiple users.  
In this project, we propose several time-shared strategies that consider channel conditions 
while solving above-mentioned problems. The internal fragmentation and capacity waste can be 
significantly reduced if we can properly select users to share OVSF codes. Simulation results 
verify that our strategies do use the precious wireless bandwidth efficiently. 
  共 13頁 第 4頁 
上一層，傳送速度就增加為二倍。 
 
本計劃第一部分是針對負載流量為集中式(bursty)傳送的環境。正交碼的分配是以使
用者的最大傳送速度為準，但因為使用者不是一直都以最大速度傳送，因此，以最大傳送
速度為基準的分配方法，可能產生系統使用率過低的問題。為了提高寬頻分碼多工系統的
效能，允許一個正交可變展頻係數碼由多個使用者分時共享是一個很好的觀念，而允許不
同的使用者分時共享同一個正交碼，則必須要有一個排程的演算法，以決定各使用者的使
用時機。 
 
本計劃第二部分是針對流量負載為固定式 (constant bit rate)傳送的環境。因每一
個正交可變展頻係數碼可提供的傳輸速度都是2 的指數倍，所以某些時候系統會浪費一些
資源。例如一個5Rb的連線請求，系統必須用一個8Rb的碼來提供服務，等於是有3Rb的資源
浪費掉了。隨著速度的增加，這些速度間的差距也愈來愈大，如果使用者的需求更高，未
充分利用的資源可能會接近100%，我們稱這種資源浪費的情況為『內部碎裂』(internal 
fragmentation)。為解決內部碎裂問題，本計劃用分時共享的角度切入，提出解決方法：將
分時共享同一個正交碼的觀念再進一步延伸，即允許使用者在同一個傳送單位時間內(以寬
頻分工系統的標準來說，此值是10 ms)分享同一個正交碼，以用單一碼解決內部碎裂的問
題。 
 
(三)文獻探討 
 
雖然正交可變展頻係數碼對系統效能的良窳，扮演了非常重要的角色，但相關研究卻
鮮少明確討論這些碼的分配問題。大部分的研究適用於使用單一碼，同時正交碼不可分時
共享的環境，即單一的正交碼是被一個使用者獨佔，直到連線結束或系統重新分配另一個
碼給他。有三篇研究[10, 34, 40]允許一個連線請求使用多重碼，這種處理方式的彈性較
大。[10]和[34]這兩篇文章討論連線請求與使用碼數的關係，但這兩篇文章都沒有提及每
個碼的確實分配位置。在[40]中，作者提出一個多重碼的排程機制，但同樣沒有提到如何
處理碼分配的問題。 
 
因為無線的通訊頻寬是很珍貴的資源，所以，讓多個使用者分時共享一個正交碼是很
實際的觀念。分時共享的好處是可以更有效率的使用無線頻寬，特別是對集中式的通訊。
允許不同的使用者分時共享同一個碼，則必須要有一個排程的演算法，決定『在那一個時
間分配那一個碼給那一個使用者』，所以，在允許分時共享的環境下，一個頻寬分配策略
必須包含一個碼分配機制與一個排程機制。有兩篇研究[22,43]假設環境允許多人分時共
享，但使用單一碼。這二篇都提出了排程機制，但都未考慮到通訊品質的問題；其中一篇
[43]還忽略了碼分配的策略。本計劃將在分時共享的前提下，提出能依據通訊品質動態調
整正交碼的分配及排程策略。 
 
 
(四)研究方法 
  共 13頁 第 6頁 
方法1的排程： 
首先定義『使用者i的標準化傳送額度』為Ci/ai。這個值表示使用者 i 可以得到的
服務次數，以其平均傳送速度計算。方法1的排程共計六步驟： 
1. 將使用者依其標準化傳送額度排序。 
2. 將標準化傳送額度最高，且有封包待收者i挑出。如果沒有這種使用者，結束此
排程。 
3. 找出Mi，其意義為使用者i在可滿足其錯誤傳送率的情況下，所能使用的最大傳
送速度。 
4. 令Ti=min{Mi, pi}，表示考慮傳送品質後，使用者i所能傳送的速度。搜尋所有分
配給使用者i的碼，如果還有尚未被佔用的碼，使用最左邊的碼將使用者i列入傳
送排程；如果沒有可用碼，往分配給使用者i的碼的下一層尋找(即速度Ti/2的
碼)，如果在這一層找到可用的碼，用最左邊的碼將使用者i列入傳送排程；若仍
沒有可用碼，再重覆上述步驟，往下找。 
5. 針對步驟4 中已排程的碼，將使用者i的傳送額度減去對應的值。 
6. 回到步驟2。 
 
方法2的排程 
方法2的排程與方法1的排程法類似，差別是在使用者的正交碼是如何使用。所有
的步驟都與方法1相同，只有第4步略有改變： 
4＇在同一個10msec內，如果這是第一次選到使用者i，執行(a)，否則執行(b)。 
(a) 令Ti=min{Mi, pi}，表示考慮傳送品質後，使用者i所能傳送的速度。搜尋分
配給使用者i的固定碼，如果尚未被佔用，將使用者i列入傳送排程；如果已
被佔用，往分配給使用者i的碼的下一層尋找(即速度Ti/2 的碼)，如果在這
一層找到可用的碼，用最左邊的碼將使用者i 列入傳送排程；若仍沒有可
用碼，再重覆上述步驟，往下找。 
(b) 類似4＇(a)的方式，在完全共享區分配一個可用碼給使用者i。 
 
方法3的排程 
方法三的排程與方法一的排程非常相像，只有在步驟2與步驟4稍作修改： 
2＂只需確認使用者有無資料要傳。 
4＂只需確認碼樹中是否有足夠的空間給使用者i。 
 
本計劃第二部分針對固定負載流量傳送的環境。使用共享正交碼的另一個好處是可以
解決內部碎裂的問題。內部碎裂的發生是因為使用者取得比他所需還多的資源。這個問題
先前曾有研究指出可以透過使用多重碼的方式，讓使用者的需求與系統所提供的傳送速度
能更接近。例如一個17Rb的連線需求，就可以用一個1Rb碼和一個16Rb碼 (如果一個連線可
以用兩個碼來提供服務)，如此便完全沒有內部碎裂。本計劃利用另一種方法，即使用單一
碼，同時允許使用者在同一個傳送單位時間內分時共享同一正交碼，來解決內部碎裂的問
題。此方法的硬體成本較低，也確實能解決內部碎裂問題。以前面提到的17Rb為例，我們
不採用將17Rb切割的方法處理內部碎裂，相反地，我們是想去合併其他的使用者，讓所有
的使用者的連線需求總和，可以完全佔滿某一個正交碼。例如17Rb的連線需求可以想辦法
使用這種挑選方法，系統有較高的使用率。一樣利用圖2來說明，此時用五個用戶所要
求的服務依序分別為3Rb、1Rb、5Rb、2Rb、4Rb，其中4Rb的服務，因使用者頻道狀況
較差，最高可使用的碼也是4Rb，其它服務最大可使用的碼則為8Rb。這裡我們用最大
碼優先放置策略挑選背包放置。使用先進來先服務，3Rb、1Rb、2Rb會選擇8Rb的C2,2
碼來放置，而5Rb、4Rb因沒適當的碼放置而造成無法服務；若使用最適服務法，3Rb
及5Rb會選C2,2，而1Rb會選C16,2，2Rb會選C8,2放置，此時只有4Rb無法被服務，所以最
適服務會比先進先服務有較高的利用率。 
 
(五)結果與討論(含結論與建議) 
 
因無法實際使用基地台作為測試環境，本計劃以個人電腦模擬基地台及行動手機，以
測試本計劃所提出分時正交共享碼及其分配策略、排程方法之效能。圖3所示為三種方法其
公平性，圖4為三種方法之信號負擔比較。 
 
圖3 公平性比較 
 
圖4 信號負擔比較 
 
在分碼多工系統的頻寬分配的相關研究，不是未考慮無線頻道的多變性，就是未確實
考慮正交碼的分配策略。本章提出三種頻寬分配的方法，其核心是一個依分配傳送額度，
  共 13頁 第 8頁 
  共 13頁 第 10頁 
    資源管理在WCDMA是一個重要的課題，由於頻寬是有限的如何做有效的管理運用，因
此，毎個學者所研究發展的重點就是如何分配頻寬。再分碼多工系統的頻寬分配的相關研
究，不是未考慮無線頻道的多變性，就是未確實考慮正交碼的分配策略。本計劃所提出的
部分，在針對不同的負載傳送都分別提出了各種策略，而這些碼的分略策略都對碼樹有相
當高的碼樹利用率。再做效能分析時，由於以電腦模擬手機網路，若能以實際手機網路加
以測試，就可以對自己提出的策略實際效能為多少，與電腦模擬相差多少就能明瞭。而參
與過程中也明白了解通訊網路中各種協定分析，也對無線網路中對於資源管理對於有限的
無線頻寛有多麼重要。 
 
四、參考文獻 
 
[1] Third Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network. 
Spreading and Modulation (FDD), http://www.3gpp.org, 1999. 
[2] F. Adachi, MSawahashi, and K. Okawa. ”Tree-structured Generation of Orthogonal 
Spreading Codes with Different Lengths for Forward Link of DS-CDMA Mobile Radio”. 
Electron. Lett., 33:27–28, Jan., 1997. 
[3] F. Adachi, M. Sawahashi, and H. Suda. ”Wideband DS-CDMA for Next-Generation Mobile 
Communications Systems”. IEEE Commun. Mag., 36:56–69, Sept., 1998. 
[4] R. Assarut, K. Kawanishi, U. Yamamoto, Y. Onozato, and Masahiko. ”Region Division 
Assignment of Orthogonal Variable-Spreading-Factor Codes inW-CDMA”. IEEE VTC 2001 Fall, 
pages 1884–1888, 2001. 
[5] A. Baier, U.-C. Fiebig, W. Granzow, W. Koch, P. Teder, and J. Thielecke. ”Design Study for 
a CDMA-Based Third-Generation Mobile Radio System”. IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in 
Communications, 12(4):733–743, May, 1994. 
[6] Y. Cao and V. O. Li. ”Scheduling Algorithms in Broad-Band Wireless Networks”. 
Proceedings of the IEEE INFOCOM, 89(1):76–87, Jan, 2001. 
[7] C.-M. Chao, Y.-C. Tseng, and L.-C. Wang. ”Reducing Internal and External Fragmentations 
of OVSF Codes in WCDMA Systems With Multiple Codes”. IEEE WCNC, pages 693–698, 
2003. 
[8] W.-T. Chen, Y.-P. Wu, and H.-C. Hsiao. ”A Novel Code Assignment Scheme for WCDMA 
Systems”. IEEE VTC 2001 Fall, pages 1182–1186, 2001. 
[9] R.-G. Cheng. ”A Code Managemant Mechanism for WCDMA Mobile Communication 
Networks”, June, 1999. International Workshop on Mobile Communications. 
[10] R.-G. Cheng and P. Lin. ”OVSF Code Channel Assignment for IMT-2000”. IEEE VTC 
2000 Spring, 3:2188–2192, May, 2000. 
[11] E. Dahlman, B. Gudmundson, M. Nilsson, and J. Skold. ”UMTS/IMT-2000 Based on 
Wideband CDMA”. IEEE Commun. Mag., 36:70–80, Sept., 1998. 
[12] E. Dahlman and K. Jamal. ”Wide-Band Services in a DS-CDMA Based FPLMTS System”. 
IEEE VTC 1996, pages 1656–1660, 1996. 
[13] D. Eckhardt and P. Steenkiste. ”Effort-Limited Fair (ELF) Scheduling for Wireless 
Networks”. IEEE INFOCOM, pages 1097–1106, 2000. 
  共 13頁 第 12頁 
[34] A. S. Tanenbaum. Modern Operating Systems. N.J.: Prentice Hall, 1992. 
[35] Theodore S. Rappaport. Wireless Communications: Principles and Practice. N.J.: Prentice 
Hall, 1996. 
[36] Y.-C. Tseng and C.-M. Chao. ”Code Placement and Replacement Strategies for Wideband 
CDMA OVSF Code Tree Management”. IEEE Trans. on Mobile Computing, 1(4):293–302, 
Oct.-Dec. 2002. 
[37] A. J. Viterbi. CDMA Principles of Spread Spectrum Communications. Addision-Wesley, 
1995. 
[38] J. Wang, M. A. Elicin, and J. C. L. Liu. ”Multimedia Support for Wireless W-CDMA with 
Dynamic Spreading”. Wireless Network, 8:355–370, July, 2002. 
[39] L. Xu, X. Shen, and J.W. Mark. ”Dynamic Bandwidth Allocation with Fair Scheduling for 
WCDMA Systems”. IEEE Wireless Communications, 9(2):26–32, April, 2002. 
[40] Y. Yang and T.-S. P. Yum. ”Nonrearrangeable Compact Assignment of Orthogonal 
Variable-Spreading-Factor Codes for Multi-Rate Traffic”. IEEE VTC 2001 Fall, pages 938–942, 
2001. 
[41] L. Zhang. ”Virtual Clock: A New Traffic Control Algorithm for Packet Switching 
Netowrks”. ACM SIGCOMM, pages 19–29, 1990. 
[42] J. Wigard, N. A. H. Madsen, P. A. Gutierrez, I. L. Sepulveda, and P. Mogensen. ”Packet 
Scheduling with QoS Differentiation”. Wireless Personal Communications, 23:147-160, 2002. 
[43] Chih-Min Chao, Yu-Chee Tseng, Li-Chun Wang, ”Dynamic Bandwidth Allocation for 
Multimedia Traffic with Rate Guarantee and Fair Access in WCDMA Systems” IEEE TMC.2005 
 
五、計畫成果自評 
 
z 完成之工作項目自我評比 
表一為本計劃預定完成項目與實際完成項目比較，『計劃預定完成項目』為在計劃申請書中
預定完成項目；『計劃實際完成項目』為計劃實際執行的結果；『完成度』對預期工作項目
之自我評估；『說明』計劃執行時細項補充說明。 
表一 計劃預定完成項目與實際完成項目之比較 
 項目 
編號 
計劃預定完成項目 計劃實際完成項目 完成度 說明 
1 分時共享多重碼分
配策略設計與分析 
提出三種分配策略 完成  
2 分時共享多重碼排
程策略設計與分析 
提出三種排程策略 完成  
3 解決多重背包問題
策略設計與分析 
提出了二種策略 完成 每種策略各有二種
配置方法 
     
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                            95 年 4 月  12 日 
報告人姓名 趙志民  
 
服務機構
及職稱 
海洋大學資工系助理教授 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
95 年 4 月 3 日至 6日 本會核定
補助文號
94-2213-E-019-018 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 
 (英文)IEEE Wireless Communications and Networking Conference 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 在分碼多工系統下結合頻道碼與時間之分配策略 
 (英文) A Joint Code/Time Assignment Strategies with Minimal Fragmentations for CDMA Systems
A Joint Code/Time Assignment Strategy with
Minimal Fragmentations for CDMA Systems
Chih-Min Chao
Department of Computer Science
National Taiwan Ocean University
Keelung, Taiwan
Email: cmchao@ntou.edu.tw
Shih-Han Wang
Department of Information Management
Tamkang University
Taipei County, Taiwan
Email: evangelion@mail.im.tku.edu.tw
Abstract— This paper handles the internal and external
fragmentation problems of CDMA systems using Orthogonal
Variable Spreading Factor (OVSF) codes. Internal fragmenta-
tion occurs when the allocated data rate is larger than what
is requested while external fragmentation occurs when the
OVSF code tree is too fragmented to support a call even
if there are sufficient capacity remaining in the code tree.
The key factor in solving these two problems is the OVSF
code assignment strategy. Most works in the literature do
not consider the time-varying and location-dependent channel
conditions. In this paper, we formulate the fragmentation
problem as a multiple knapsack problem where each OVSF code is
considered as a knapsack. We propose single-code, time-shared
strategies that consider channel conditions while solving these
fragmentation problems. We show that internal fragmentation
can be significantly reduced if we can properly select users to
share OVSF codes. Simulation results verify that our strategies
do use the precious wireless bandwidth efficiently.
Keywords: Mobile computing, OVSF, Personal communica-
tion services, CDMA, Wireless communication, 3G.
I. INTRODUCTION
It is expected that higher-bit-rate services such as file
transfer and QoS-guaranteed multimedia applications will be
supported in the next-generation (3G or beyond) systems.
To support these higher and variable data rate services, two
transmission schemes are proposed: multicode-CDMA (MC-
CDMA) and Orthogonal Variable Spreading Factor CDMA
(OVSF-CDMA). In MC-CDMA, multiple Orthogonal Con-
stant Spreading Factor (OCSF) codes can be assigned to a
user [9], [10]. The maximum data rate a user can receive
depends on the number of transceivers in the device. In
OVSF-CDMA, a single OVSF code can provide a data rate
that is several times than that of an OCSF code, depending
on its spreading factor [2].
OVSF codes can be represented as a binary code tree [1].
The data rates provided by OVSF codes are always powers
of two with respect to the lowest basic rate, Rb. Thus, the
possible rates that are supported are: 1Rb, 2Rb, 4Rb, 8Rb,
etc. Since the gap becomes larger as the rate increases, in
some cases capacity waste is inevitable. For instance, a call
requiring a rate of 10Rb may be given a 16Rb code. The
wasted capacity may be approaching 100% as the spreading
factor decreases. This is called the internal fragmentation
problem [4]. To relieve the internal fragmentation problem
and better utilize the scarce wireless bandwidth, one solution
is to use multiple (smaller) OVSF codes to support a call.
For example, a call requesting rate 10Rb can be supported
by a 2Rb code and a 8Rb code. This direction has been
explored in [4], [6], [7], [16]. However, using multiple codes
implies higher hardware cost. In this paper, we consider
another direction: use a single code and adopt the time-
sharing concept to solve the internal fragmentation problem.
Time sharing allows two or more low-rate requests to share
a high-rate code. For example, two calls requiring rates of
9Rb and 7Rb may share a 16Rb code without wasting any
capacity. If we can choose suitable users to share a large-rate
code, capacity waste can be reduced significantly.
Besides the internal fragmentation problem, while connec-
tions are arriving and leaving the system, an OVSF code tree
may become too fragmented to support newly arrival calls
even if there are sufficient spaces in the code tree. This is
referred to as the external fragmentation problem. A possible
solution to this problem requires intelligent code assignment
which addresses how to assign code(s) to a new call in the
code tree to avoid the tree becoming too fragmented. It is
shown in [4], [17], code assignment plays a very important
role in system utilization.
The OVSF code assignment problems in CDMA systems
have been widely studied. In the literature, solutions to this
problem can be classified depending on two factors:
• single-code/multi-code: whether a user can simultane-
ously utilize multiple OVSF codes or not.
• dedicated/shared: at each transmission time unit1,
1A transmission time unit is the duration for which the base station
schedules the transmission. For example, the transmission time unit is 10
ms in WCDMA systems.
model instead of the typically assumed two-state (good-or-
bad) model. Specifically, a wireless link’s symbol error rate
is inversely proportional to its received signal strength, which
is given by
Eb
N0
= SNR× SF
where:
Eb = energy per bit
N0 = two times the power spectral density of additive
white Gaussian noise
SNR = signal-to-noise ratio
SF = spreading factor.
To obtain the target Eb/N0, one can either increase SNR
through power control or increase SF . When the transmis-
sion power is up to a limit, increasing SF is the only way
to reduce bit error rate (BER). In this work, we assume that
there exists a target BER for all users. As a result, at any
moment, there is always a maximum data rate (or minimum
spreading factor) for each user. To facilitate our explanation,
we prefix the data rate to denote a user’s link condition.
For example, a user with maximum data rate 64Rb will be
denoted as a 64Rb-capable user.
We assume the time-shared, single-code model. OVSF
codes are sharable in a transmission time unit, which means
multiple users can transmit with the same (higher-rate)
code in a transmission unit if their link conditions are
good enough. This model has the following advantages: (1)
bandwidth can be utilized efficiently due to time sharing,
(2) hardware cost is reduced when compared with a multi-
code model, and (3) transmission quality can be guaranteed
since a user’s maximum data rate varies according to channel
condition changes at every transmission time unit.
A. Problem Statement
We formulate the fragmentation problem to be a multiple
knapsack problem. The selection of users for each available
OVSF code can be mapped to a single knapsack problem
where the knapsack capacity corresponds to the data rate of
a code while both the object value and weight correspond to a
user’s request data rate. It becomes a multiple knapsack prob-
lem when the entire code tree is considered. Note that our
fragmentation problem is different to the traditional multiple
knapsack problem in that it has one extra restriction: user’s
channel condition. Not all available codes are assignable to
some users.
The input of the problem is divided inot two sets: the
request set and the available code set. The request set
contains a set of users’ requests in the form of ordered pairs
(transmission rate, occupied time fraction). The concept be-
hind the request set is that a request can be served in different
ways. A 1Rb request can be delivered by a 1Rb code using
one entire transmission unit; it can also be served by a 2Rb
code using half of a transmission unit. For example, at a
particular time the system contains two requests: a 64Rb-
capable user requests a rate of 9Rb and a 32Rb-capable user
requests a rate of 7Rb. The request set will be expressed
as {{(64Rb, 964 ), (32Rb, 932 ), (16Rb, 916 )}, {(32Rb, 732 ),
(16Rb, 716 ), (8Rb, 78 )}}. The ordered pair (64Rb, 964 ) means
that if the request is transmitted using a 64Rb code, it will
occupy the code for a fraction of 9
64
in each transmission
time unit. The available code set, which consists of ordered
triples (code, data rate, free time fraction), is used to indicate
the availability of a code tree. For example, in a code tree
with maximum SF = 8, the available code set {(C4,4, 2Rb,
1
2
), (C8,7, 1Rb, 12 ), (C8,8, 1Rb, 1)} means that C4,4, C8,7,
and C8,8 are the only three available codes. Among them
C4,4 and C8,7 are half-occupied and C8,8 is totally free. The
purpose of our strategy is to determine which code should
be assigned to which user(s) such that the system throughput
is maximized.
To conclude, the fragmentation problem can be briefly
described as follows.
Input: the request set and the available code set.
Output: at each transmission time unit, which code is
assigned to which user(s).
Goal: to maximize the system utilization.
III. JOINT CODE/TIME ASSIGNMENT STRATEGY
We will present our strategy to solve the fragmentation
problems in this section. As mentioned earlier, we formulate
the fragmentation problem as a multiple knapsack problem
which is known to be NP-hard. We solve the problem in two
steps: first find an appropriate knapsack (an OVSF code) and
then fill items (users’ requests) into the knapsack. That is,
our solutions consist of two parts: code assignment and user
selection – which are applied every transmission time unit.
A. Code Assignment Part
This part decides the assignment sequence of available
codes. For each code k in the code tree, the base station
maintains a variable FCFk to keep track of the free capacity
fraction of code k. For example, in Fig. 1, the number in
each code represents its free capacity fraction. It is not hard
to maintain these variables. Whenever a code k is allocated,
code k’s free capacity fraction is updated accordingly. This
new value is copied to the free capacity fractions of all code
k’s descendant codes. Then, the free capacity fractions of
code k’s ancestor codes are set to the smaller one of their two
children’s. For example, in Fig. 1, after allocating two thirds
of the capacity of the code C4,4, the free capacity fractions of
a Poisson process. Calls request rates uniformly distributed
between 1Rb and 8Rb. Call duration is exponentially dis-
tributed with a mean of 4 time units. Using the QPSK
modulation, we model the symbol error probability by
PE ≈ 2Q
(√
2Eb
N0
)
, (1)
where Q(x) =
∫∞
x
e−y
2/2
√
2pi
dy and Eb
N0
= SNR×SF. When a
user adopts a lower SF, a higher transmission rate is achieved.
But the penalty, according to (1), is a higher PE . To achieve
a better throughput, we should always choose the smallest
SF that meets the required PE . That is, a user’s maximum
transmission rate has to be determined before applying our
algorithms. In this paper, the upper bound of PE is set to
10−5. We assume a Rayleigh fading channel, so signal power
is modelled by an exponential random variable X with mean
γ, i.e., f(x) = 1
γ
e
−x
γ for x ≥ 0 [14].
In the following, we observe the performance from two
aspects. Each result below is from an average of 100 simu-
lation runs, where each run contains 1000 transmission time
units.
A) Impact on Utilization: This experiment tests different
code assignment and user selection strategies. We evaluate
code utilization which is the average capacity of the code tree
that is actually used for transmission. In addition to our time-
shared schemes, we also simulate the “FCFS, dedicated”
scheme.
Fig. 3 shows the code utilization at various traffic loads.
Our best-fit performs the best, which is followed by the
FCFS scheme. Large gaps between the FCFS, dedicated
scheme and our best-fit and FCFS indicate the necessity of
a time-shared mechanism. The best-fit scheme gets obvious
advantages over FCFS with heavy traffic loads (at load = 320
or above) since more candidates are available when traffic
load increases. Fig. 3 also reveals the large-code-first scheme
achieves better utilization. For example, in Fig. 3(a) at traffic
load = 400, code utilization is 0.99 and 0.95 for the best-fit
and the FCFS schemes, respectively. The utilization for the
small-code-first scheme, in Fig. 3(b) at traffic load = 400,
is 0.97 and 0.89 for the best-fit and the FCFS schemes,
respectively. We believe it is because the small-code-first
scheme produces more ”knapsacks” which induce more
internal fragmentations. An interesting observation is that
the FCFS, dedicated scheme has slightly better performance
when the small-code-first scheme is applied. It is because
of the dedicated assignment where a larger code produces
larger internal fragmentation than that of a smaller code when
serving the same user.
Since the large-code-first scheme has better performance
(a)
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
0 40 80 120 160 200 240 280 320 360 400
traffic load
u
ti
li
z
a
ti
o
n
best-fit
FCFS
FCFS, dedicated
(b)
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
0 40 80 120 160 200 240 280 320 360 400
traffic load
u
ti
li
z
a
ti
o
n
best-fit
FCFS
FCFS, dedicated
Fig. 3. Code utilization versus traffic load with (a) the small-code-first
scheme and (b) the large-code-first scheme.
in our time-shared model, we use it as the representative
code assignment scheme in the following experiments.
B) Impact on Delay: Next we evaluate the average delay,
measured in transmission time units, a user experienced at
the base station. Since there is a limit to human patience,
we set an upper bound to simulate a user’s exit due to over-
waiting. In this experiment, this limit is set to 30. A user will
withdraw its request if it waits longer than the limit. In other
words, the request will be regarded as blocked. The metrics
in this experiment are (i) the average delay a successful call
experienced, and (ii) the blocking probability for a new user.
The results are shown in Fig. 4. In Fig. 4(a), both our best-fit
and FCFS schemes have very low delays when the code tree
is not fully loaded (at traffic load = 240 or below). At load
= 320 or above, the delays produced by the best-fit scheme
increase notably. However, the delays for the FCFS scheme
remain low. These results reveal that the best-fit scheme
obtain higher utilization at the expense of delay. The impact
on block probability is shown in Fig. 4(b). Both schemes
