(2) We have investigated the feasibility of fPAM in noninvasive 
monitoring of morphological and vascular changes in Achilles 
tendon injuries on a collagenase-induced Achilles tendinitis model 
of mice. 
(3) We have demonstrated the fPAM capability of transcranial 
functional small-animal brain imaging. The fPAM has been used for 
qualitatively investigating hemodynamic changes in single rat and 
mouse cortical vessels associated with electrical forepaw 
stimulation. In addition, new indices for fPAM brain imaging are 
also proposed. We also have observed initial dip phenomenon of 
blood oxygenation in single vessels during electrical stimulation via 
the developed fPAM system. 
(4) We also have verified the feasibility of photoacoustic breast 
microcalcification imaging using this imaging platform. 
 
 
2/14
功能性光聲顯微影像系統於微細血管脈絡造影之研究
Functional Photoacoustic Microscopy for Microvasculature Imaging
計畫編號: NSC 97-2221-E-007-084-MY3
執行期限: 97年 08月 01日 至 100年 07月 31日
主持人: 李夢麟 (Meng-Lin Li) 助理教授 國立清華大學電機工程學系
摘要
本 文 為 國 科 會 計 畫
NSC97-2221-E-007-084-MY3:“功能性光聲顯
微影像系統於微細血管脈絡造影之研究”的期
末成果報告。此計畫目標為開發具高解析度
功能性活體小動物微細血管脈絡造影能力的
非侵入性雷射誘發之高頻(>20MHz)功能性光
聲顯微影像技術及系統。透過適當選擇過的
多個特定光波長掃瞄的方式及基於帶氧和不
帶氧血紅素其吸收光譜特徵的不同，本計畫
所開發之功能性光聲顯微影像系統可針對特
定微細血管進行血紅素濃度及含氧飽和度變
化之定性及定量功能性造影。亦將其與高頻
超音波整合，及著重發掘此新顯微技術於生
醫上的應用。此計畫中，我們
(1)已完成一適用於小動物二維及三維微細血
管功能性造影之功能性光聲光譜顯微影像系
統。並已進行多波長造影掃瞄之自動化和系
統參數之最佳化，及透過仿體和活體實驗驗
證此系統對血紅素含氧飽和度定量量測的能
力。
(2)於小鼠動物模型上，驗證了此系統對阿基
里斯腱炎發炎過程中形態和血管變化之長期
連續性造影監控能力。
(3)驗證了此系統穿顱功能性小動物腦部造影
的能力。可用於大鼠、小鼠動物模型在前肢
電刺激時，大腦皮質單一血管血液動力學特
徵，例如單一血氧和血流量變化之定性研
究。並開發了可用於光聲功能性腦部造影的
新指標，以及以此系統觀察到電刺激時血管
內血氧 initial dip現象。
(4)利用此系統初步驗證了乳房微鈣化光聲造
影的可行性。
關鍵詞：功能性光聲顯微影像系統、微細血管脈
絡造影、血紅素含氧飽和度、血紅素濃度、
阿斯里斯腱炎、功能性腦部造影、乳房微鈣
化造影
Abstract
This is the final report for the
NSC97-2221-E-007-084-MY3 project, entitled
“functional photoacoustic microscopy for
microvasculature imaging”. The objective of
this project is to develop a non-invasive
laser-induced high frequency (> 20 MHz)
functional photoacoustic microscopy (fPAM)
for high-resolution functional microvasculature
imaging of small animals in vivo. Imaging of
blood optical absorption by the developed fPAM
at multiple appropriately-selected and distinct
wavelengths can be used to probe changes in
total hemoglobin concentration (HbT) and
hemoglobin oxygen saturation (SO2) for a given
micro-vessel qualitatively and quantitatively.
We have integrated the going on fPAM system
development with ultrasonic microscopy and
explored its potential bio-applications. In this
project,
(1) We have developed an fPAM system using
a multi-wavelength laser system with good
enough spatial resolution and penetration
depth for small animal 2D and 3D
functional imaging of microvasculatures.
We also have accomplished the automation
of multiple-wavelength scanning and
system optimization for the developed
fPAM. Currently, phantom and in vivo
experiments are being carried out to verify
the fPAM capability of SO2 quantitative
measurement.
(2) We have investigated the feasibility of
fPAM in noninvasive monitoring of
morphological and vascular changes in
Achilles tendon injuries on a
collagenase-induced Achilles tendinitis
4/14
Figure 1. Improved system block diagram for automation of
multiple-wavelength scanning
通常小鼠微血管大
小約小於 0.1mm
(設 a為血管直徑)
μa=100(cm-1)
穿透深度
1/μa (μm)
探頭中心頻率 fc選擇
(=speed of sound/Λ)
I.Λ<1/μa <afc>15MHz~45MHz
μa正比於 peak value of PA signal
Case one : Large μa
(1/μa<a)
Ex.μa=100~300
1/μa=33.33~100
II.Λ >1/μa<afc<15MHz~44.5MHz
μa正比於 power of PA signal
III.fc don’t care
μa正比於 peak value of PA signal
Case two : Small μa
(1/μa>a)
Ex. μa=24~100
1/μa=100~415.3
IV. fcdon’t care
μa正比於 peak value of PA signal
Table 1. Optimal choice for transducer center frequency
Figure 1 showed the improved system
block diagram of fPAM used for in vivo
functional micro-vasculature imaging. The
whole system was controlled by
custom-developed software based on
MATLAB® (The MathWorks, Inc., Natick,
MA). A tunable laser (Surlite OPO Plus,
Continuum, U.S.A.), pumped by an Nd:YAG
Q-switch pulsed laser (Surlite II, Continuum,
U.S.A.) working at 355 nm and delivering up to
20~40 mJ pulse energy, is used to provide < 6.5
ns pulses with a tunable wavelength needed
within the visible and NIR spectral ranges
(410 – 2500 nm) and a pulse repetition
frequency (PRF) of 10 Hz. The tunable laser
providing “optical wavelength tunability” is 
essential for multi-wavelength functional
photoacoustic imaging. Since the excitation of
acoustic pressure is by light, the optical
absorption spectrum of the imaged object can be
probed by changing the wavelength of the laser
pulse, which serves as the base of functional
photo-acoustic imaging. The laser instability is
monitored by a slow photodiode with an
integrator. The integrated photodiode signals are
used to compensate the fluctuated photoacoustic
signals caused by fluctuated laser energy.
The laser energy is delivered by a 1-mm
multimode fiber. The fiber tip is coaxially
positioned with a convex lens, an axicon, a
plexiglass mirror, and a focused ultrasonic
transducer on an optical bench, which forms
dark-field illumination and makes the light
confocal with the ultrasonic transducer. The
center frequency of the transducer (e.g., 5-, 10-,
25-, and 50-MHz) will be chosen depending on
the required penetration depth and spatial
resolution. The optical bench is fixed on a
three-dimensional precision mechanical scanner
where the x- and y-axes are motorized and the z
axis can be manually adjusted with a
micro-meter. The incident energy density on the
sample surface was < 1mJ/cm2, which is well
within the ANSI safety limit of 20 mJ/cm2.
The transducer was immersed in an acrylic
water tank, which had a hole at the bottom
sealed with a piece of polyethylene film. The
hole served as acoustic window. The imaged
part of the animal was placed below the film
and coated with a thin layer of ultrasonic gel to
ensure good coupling of photoacoustic waves.
The photoacoustic signals received by the
ultrasonic transducer were pre-amplified by an
ultrasonic pulser/receiver (5073 PR, Olympus),
low-pass filtered (LPF), digitized by a
high-speed A/D card (Gage 14200), and then
stored in the PC for further processing. The A/D
card is PCI based and thus enhances the data
transfer rate and reduces the scanning time,
which is typically required for fPAM since
multi-wavelength scanning will be performed.
Currently the scanning speed is limited by the
slow 10-Hz laser pulse rate. Note that the in
vivo photoacoustic images shown in the
following section were taken without signal
averaging, and the brightness of the images
represents the amplitude of the detected
photoacoustic signals at a given wavelength.
Currently, the multiple-wavelength B-mode
and C-mode scanning can be automatically done
by the developed system software on PC1. The
blocks in dashed rectangular box are the added
new ones for the multiple-wavelength-scanning
automation. Currently, the tunability of fPAM
ranges from 410 to 2500 nm according to the
OPO specification. From table 1, to retain the
proportionality of the detected signals to the
optical absorption at the visible-light excitation
range, which is essential for functional imaging,
the center frequency of the transducer has to be
larger than 20-MHz. The current fPAM system
can offer an axial resolution of 68 m and a
lateral resolution of 171 m with a 25-MHz
transducer. An axial resolution of 36 m and a
lateral resolution of 65m can be provided with
a 50-MHz ultrasonic transducer. For SO2
quantitative measurement, the optimal
wavelength set for our fPAM is 578, 584, 590
and 596 nm.
Animal handling
All animal experiments were performed in
6/14
In blood, two forms of hemoglobin –
oxy-hemoglobin and deoxy-hemoglobin (i.e.,
HbO2 and Hb) –are the dominant absorption
chromophores in the visible spectral range. That
is, in the visible spectral range, blood vessels
have strong optical absorption, guaranteeing
that the detected photoacoustic signals mainly
come from vessels. For an optical wavelengthλ, 
the photoacoustic signal detected by the
ultrasound transducer can be written as
'
det ected ( , ) ( , ) ( )eP t P t h t   , (1)
where ( )eh t is the electrical impulse response
of the ultrasound transducer, and '( , )iP t is
the PA wave reaching the transducer’s surface. 
This wave is proportional to the optical
absorption coefficient ( )a  of
blood:
   
2
'
2( , ) ( ) ( ) Hb ( ) Hba Hb HbOP t O          
, (2)
where ( )Hb  and 2 ( )HbO  are the molar
extinction coefficients (in cm−1M−1) of Hb and
HbO2, respectively, and [Hb] and [HbO2] are
the concentrations of the two forms of
hemoglobin.
From Eq. (1), the factor affecting the
proportionality of the detected signals to the
optical absorption, as in Eq. (2), is the electrical
impulse response of the ultrasound transducer. It
should be noted that to retain the proportionality
of Eq. (2), the electrical impulse response of the
ultrasound transducer should be smaller than the
optical penetration depth of blood at the selected
excitation wavelength (e.g., ~ 100 μm at λ570, 
assuming 45% hematocrit). The 25-MHz and
50-MHz transducer used in our fPAM satisfy
the requirement.
Figure 4. Estimated optical absorption spectra of blood with different
levels of SO2–95%, 90%, 85%, and 70%.
Figure 4 showed the estimated absorption
spectra of the blood specimen for differences of
SO2 –95%, 90%, 85%, and 70%. In the visible
spectral range, it was observed that the largest
absorption changes occur approximately at λ560
and λ600 when the SO2 level changes. At λ570,
the optical absorption insensitive to the SO2
level, indicating an isosbestic point of the molar
extinction spectra of oxy- and
deoxy-hemoglobin. That is, the generated
photoacoustic signals at λ560 and λ600 were
sensitive to SO2 changes, whereas those at λ570
were SO2-insensitive. Since λ570 was an
isosbestic point, PA signal changes at this
wavelength dominantly resulted from changes
in HbT, which are related to changes in blood
volume (BV) and vessel diameter (VD).
Therefore, laser pulses at λ560, λ570, and λ600
were employed in this study. fPAM images at
λ570 were used to probe the changes in CBV
during electrical stimulation. To observe the
effects of electrical stimulation on SO2 level
(i.e., excluding effects of CBV), fPAM images
acquired at λ560 or λ600 were normalized by that
acquired at λ570. The images served as a
reference for CBV changes, assuming on a
point-by-point basis that the detected PA signals
det ected ( , )P t were proportional to '( , )P t :
   
   
2
2
2
2detected
(560 or 600)
detected 2
2 Hb 2
(560 600nm) Hb (560 600nm) Hb(560 600nm, t)
(570nm, t) (570nm) Hb (570nm) Hb
(560 600nm) (1 ) (560 600nm)
(570 nm)
Hb HbO
F
Hb HbO
Hb O
Hb
or or OP or
I
P O
or SO or SO
 
 
 

  
 
  
  
＝
, (3)
where
2
(570 nm) (570 nm)HbO Hb  - new index
for functional fPAM brain imaging.
Figure 5. IF (560) was a function of SO2 level, showing that IF(560) was
inversely proportional to SO2 during electrical stimulation.
8/14
Figure 6. Results of double-ink experiemnts for quantitative SO2
measurement.
fPAM imaging of Achilles tendinitis
Figure 7. 25-MHz Photoacoustic and ultrasonic B-mode images of a
normal control Achilles tendon (i.e., right Achilles tendon). (a) and (c):
photoacoustic B-mode images shown in linear scale; (b) and (d):
ultrasonic B-mode images. Top panels: images acquired on the 12th day
after saline injection; bottom panels: images acquired on the 23rd after
saline injection.
Figure 7 shows the captured 25-MHz
photoacoustic B-mode images of a normal
control Achilles tendon (i.e., right Achilles
tendon) and their ultrasonic B-mode
counterparts. Figures. 7(a) and (c) are
photoacoustic B-mode images displayed in
linear scale, where the brightness represents the
amplitude of the detected photoacoustic signals;
Figs. 7(b) and (d) are ultrasound B-mode
images. The regions enclosed by the dashed
lines denote mouse Achilles tendon. The
photoacoustic images reveal vascular
information telling the position of vessels while
the ultrasonic images provide complementary
structural information of the tendon. In figures
7(b) and (d), the echo signals from the Achilles
tendon are lower than those from its
surrounding tissues, and thus the tendon
appeared as a dark band, having clear boundary
with its surrounding tissues in the longitudinal
view. In addition, there are no focal hypoechoic
regions in the imaged normal Achilles tendon,
which is similar to the reported results in the
literature. With the help of figures 7(b) and (d),
we can recognize the relative position between
tendon and the vessels revealed in figures 7(a)
and (c). The vessels inside the tendon are
indicated by blue arrows and those around the
tendon are pointed out by white arrows. The
comparison between figures 7(a) and (c) verifies
that there is no observable neovascularization in
the normal tendon.
Figure 8. Photoacoustic and ultrasonic B-mode images of an Achilles
tendon with collagenase-induced tendinitis (i.e., left Achilles tendon). (a)
and (c): photoacoustic B-mode images shown in linear scale; (b) and (d):
ultrasonic B-mode images. Top panels: images acquired on the 12th day
after collagenase administration; bottom panels: images acquired on the
23rd after collagenase administration.
The imaging results of the Achilles tendon
with collagenase-induced tendinitis (i.e., left
Achilles tendon) are shown in figure 8. The
cross-section of tendon and the thickness of
dermis in figures 8(b) and (d) are larger than
those in figure 7(b) and (d) due to inflammation
and swelling. The increase of dermis thickness
is also revealed by the photoacoustic images, as
shown in figure 8(a) and (c). There are focal
hypoechoic regions in the injured Achilles
tendon, as shown in figure 8(b) and (d).
Proliferation of new blood vessels within the
tendon is also observed in figure 8(a), as
indicated by blue arrows. The swelling and the
increased blood content in the skin are typical
symptoms of inflammatory tissues. Such
symptoms are relieved gradually from the 12th
to 23rd day post collagenase administration,
10/14
changes in the bilateral ROIs between the
stimulation-ON and OFF conditions were
shown in figure 10(b) and figure 10(c),
respectively. As presented in figure 10(b), the
IF(560) PA signals in the contralateral S1FL
region at bregma+1 mm decreased by 4.560 ±
0.005% from stimulation-OFF to
stimulation-ON (Wilcoxon matched-pairs
signed-rank test, p = 0.043; n = 6). Conversely,
the IF(560) PA signals in the contralateral S1FL
region at the bregma-1.5 mm section and in the
S1Tr region at the bregma-2.5 mm section
increased by about 2.230 ± 0.005% and 2.800 ±
0.001%, respectively, from simulation-OFF to
stimulation-ON (Wilcoxon matched-pairs
signed-rank test, p = 0.043 and 0.042,
respectively ; n = 6). Similar results were also
obtained for IF(600). The IF(600) PA signals in the
contralateral S1FL region at bregma+1 mm
significantly decreased by 4.180 ± 0.007% from
stimulation-OFF to stimulation-ON (Wilcoxon
matched-pairs signed-rank test, p = 0.043; n =
6). During stimulation, PA signals in the
contralateral S1FL region at bregma-1.5 mm
and in the contralateral S1Tr region at
bregma-2.5 mm significantly increased by 2.210
± 0.004% and 2.370 ± 0.001%, respectively,
(Wilcoxon matched-pairs signed-rank test, p =
0.043 and 0.042, respectively; n = 6), as shown
in figure 10(c). There were no significant
bilateral differences in IF(560) or IF(600) PA signals
during stimulation-OFF (Wilcoxon
matched-pairs signed-rank test, p = 0.821; n =
6). The bilateral differences in cortical
contralateral S1FL at bregma+1 and bregma-1.5
mm and S1Tr at bregma-2.5 mm were
significant during stimulation-ON (Wilcoxon
matched-pairs signed-rank test, p = 0.043, 0.042
and 0.043, respectively; n = 6)
Transcranial functional brain imaging during
electrical forepaw stimuation
Figure 11. Comparison of the photograph of the mouse brain with the
skull removed with the projected PA C-scan image acquired at λ570. (a)
In vivo PA-projected C-scan image of the blood vessels in the superficial
layer of the cortex with skull intact, acquired at λ570. The green dashed 
arrow indicates the position of the bregma. The superior sagittal sinus
(SSS), middle cerebral artery (MCA) and some cortical vessels on the
cortical surface could be identified. (b) Photograph of the brain surface
with the skull removed, taken after the imaging procedure, showing an
unobstructed view of the cortex vessels. Some branches of the vessels
indicated by the red solid arrows are imaged in Figure 11(a).
Figure 11(a) is a maximum-amplitude
projected C-scan image of the cerebral cortex
vessels in a 5 × 10-mm range that was acquired
at λ570 with an intact skull. The PA-projected
C-scan image included 85 B-scan images, with
each scan separated by 60 μm. Figure 11(b) is
an anatomical photograph of the skull-removed
mouse brain taken after the imaging procedure.
The cortical blood vessels, indicated by solid
red arrows in Figure 11(b), were imaged and are
shown in Figure 11(a). In addition, arteriolar
branches from the middle cerebral artery (MCA)
vessel system can be seen in the projected
C-scan image. These were bilaterally identified
as MI and MII and are labeled in both Figures
11(a) and 11(b) along with the superior sagittal
sinus (SSS). The SSS is the largest vein in the
rodent brain cortex. The MI and MII arterioles
are two different-sized arterioles branching from
the MCA vessel system growing from the
bottom center of the brain to the cortical surface.
The bilateral MI arterioles cross through the
anatomical borders of the primary motor cortex
and secondary motor cortex. The bilateral MII
arterioles are located in the anatomical borders
of the primary somatosensory cortex that
innervates the forepaw (S1FL). Functional
changes of HbT, CBV and SO2 and early SO2
changes in the SSS and the bilateral MI and MII
arterioles were imaged by fPAM scanning along
the black solid and dashed lines in the bilateral
regions of Figure 11(b) during stimulation.
The IR(570) images that assessed HbT
changes in one stimulation block are shown in
Figures 12(a) and 12(b). Significant HbT
changes were observed in the SSS and MI and
MII arterioles contralateral to forepaw electrical
stimulation. On the contrary, no significant HbT
changes were found in ipsilateral MI and MII
arterioles. Figure 12(c) shows the HbT ( )R t of the
SSS and bilateral MI and MII arterioles in one
stimulation block. The times to the peak HbTR
of the SSS and the contralateral MI and MII
arterioles were 13.76, 9.54 and 17.98 s
12/14
negative peak
2SO
R values after the
stimulation onset were 0.8 and 1 s for the
contralateral MI and MII arterioles, respectively.
The negative peak values of the
2SO
R signals
were -0.13 ± 0.002 (mean ± SD) (p < 0.01) and
-0.38 ± 0.003 (mean ± SD) (p < 0.001) in
contralateral MI and MII arterioles, respectively
(Wilcoxon matched-pairs signed-rank test, p <
0.001; n = 6). The response times of the
signals in the hypoxic phase (i.e., from the
stimulation onset and to the time when
returned to the baseline) were 1.2 and 1.4 s for
the contralateral MI and MII arterioles,
respectively.
IV. SUMMARY
Currently, we have developed an fPAM system
using a multi-wavelength laser system with
good enough spatial resolution and penetration
depth for small animal 2D and 3D functional
imaging of microvasculatures. We also have
accomplished the automation of
multiple-wavelength scanning and system
optimization for the developed fPAM. Currently,
phantom and in vivo experiments are being
carried out to verify the fPAM capability of SO2
quantitative measurement. The feasibility of
fPAM in noninvasive monitoring of
morphological and vascular changes in Achilles
tendon injuries on a collagenase-induced
Achilles tendinitis model of mice has been also
demonstrated. In addition, we have
demonstrated the fPAM capability of
transcranial functional small-animal brain
imaging. The current fPAM system has been
successfully used for detecting brain PA signals
in response to changes in neuronal activity
induced by forepaw electrical stimulation. The
present study demonstrated that the fPAM
system could provide novel SO2, HbT, CBV
mapping in a single setting. New indices for
fPAM brain imaging are also proposed. The
fPAM system complements existing imaging
techniques, with the potential to serve as a
favorable tool for explicitly studying brain
hemodynamics in animal models.
V. FUTURE WORK
Future work will focus on
(1) Development of new SO2 reconstruction
algorithms which can compensate for the
fluence effect over different tissue layers.
(2) Transcranial photoacoustic brain flow
imaging under electrical and pharmaceutical
stimulation in order to provide a way to
monitor metabolic rate change.
(3) Improved fPAM with ring-fiber-based
dark-field illumination. Current bulky
optical bench designed for confocal and
dark-field illumination is being replaced by
a custom-designed ring fiber with small
volume and much lighter weight (see figure
12). The light illumination from the ring
fiber is designed to resemble our current
fPAM setup. The new ring-fiber design
facilitates high speed swept scanning for
ultrasound Doppler imaging. Currently, the
capable frame rate of the ultrasound
B-mode imaging is about 10 frames/sec
with 8 mm scanning distance. However, we
are still suffering synchronization jitter so
that ultrasound Dopplering imaging is not
ready yet.
Figure 14. Updated system block diagram with ring-fiber-based dark
field illumination
(4) Photoacoustic breast calcification imaging
(see patent filing and new NSC project
“NSC100-2221-E-007-010-MY2_100”)
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We are grateful to Meng-Wei Kuo, Prof.
Yung-Jen Chuang, and Prof. Chi-Shiun Chiang,
National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan, for their
assistance with veterinary procedures, and the
funding support from National Tsing Hua
University (Boost Program 98N2531E1) for the
purchase of the tunable laser system.
REFERENCES
1. K. Maslov, M. Sivaramakrishnan, H. F.
Zhang, G. Stoica, and L. V. Wang,
“Technical consideration in quantitative
14/14
作本人國科會計畫所使用的高頻超音波探頭，希望藉由此次參訪可以更了解高頻
超音波探頭的製作流程以及和中心的 Dr. Cannata討論計畫執行所需特殊規格探
頭製作的可行性。在該中心參訪時是由清大工科校友 Dr. Yang帶著我們參觀整個
中心，介紹高頻超音波探頭的製作流程、使用上的注意事項及目前正在開發的新
技術。參訪後才了解到，高頻超音波探頭製作上的費時費工，往往需要耗費一個
月才能製作出一顆效能夠好的探頭。參訪結束後，當晚再由南加大開車前往聖地
牙哥準備開會。第一天的議程主要以 short course為主，本人因國科會計畫及長
清計畫均開始將所開發的技術應用於治療用超音波的監控上，為了更了解治療超
音波的特性及相關應用，亦參加了 short course 5-A: Therapeutic Ultrasound，去了
解治療用超音波該領域的發展、目前技術及其瓶頸以及未來相關的發展。講師為
University of Washington, Applied Physics Lab的 Dr. Lawrence Crum, Dr. Bailey及
Dr. Hwang (MD. Ph.D.)，印象最深度的是 Dr. Hwang以醫師的角度提出治療用超
音波未來發展迫切的技術需求 –Enhanced immune response mechanisms,
Enhanced drug delivery, Advances in monitoring of therapy, 及 Expanded
indications，可能成功的臨床應用為 Uterine fibroids, Palliation of inoperable solid
tumors, Liver tumors, 及 Breast cancer。另一個令我印象深刻的是，關於 lithoripsy
目前最重要的需求之一，也是技術難度最高的需求，Dr. Bailey 指出進行
Lithotripsy前，若能事先知道結石的成份，便能進行更好的術前規畫，所以目前
他們正在透過結石的回波信號去分析結石成份。我們實驗室正在開發的光聲鈣化
造影技術未來也應朝向鈣化成份的分析，或許有機會應用到此類的治療上。
本實驗室的報告有一篇以口頭形式發表，發表的題目(1) “Gold-Nanorod
Contrast Enhanced Ultrasound Imaging of Focused-Ultrasound Induced
Blood-Brain-Barrier Opening: Small Animal Study”，內容重點在於我們發現了一個
對比新機制，可以讓超音波影像觀察到穿過開啟的血腦屏障累積在腦組織中的金
奈米粒子，會場反應極佳，報告後，該 sesseion的 chairman Dr. Hynynen還特地
向本人道了聲”good job”，並與 Prof. Konofagou 交流血腦屏障開啟的參數及經
驗。另外，三篇以壁報形式發表，發表的題目為(2) Improved Plane-Wave High
Frame Rate Imaging Using Retrospective Transmit Focusing and Filter-derived
Coherence-Index Weighting、(3) High Frame-Rate Vector Flow Estimation Using
Speckle Tracking with Recursive Plane-Wave Compounding、 (4) Ultrasonic
Nakagami Visualization of HIFU-Induced Thermal Lesions主要是與超高幀率的超
音波影像技術及 HIFU超音波手術刀療程監控有關，有多家相關廠商(Toshiba, GE,
Philips, Verasonics)向我們詢問相關資料，本次大會的 keynote speaker Dr. Fink，
因其研究需要高品質超高幀率超音波影像，所以他亦對我們所提出的改進超高幀
率超音波影像品質及血流估計的技術相當有興趣。
今年會議上最值得注意的便是與 keynote speaker Dr. Fink 主講題目
Multi-wave imaging有關的 Shear Wave Elastography，突破了傳統彈性影像的限
制，透過 Supersonics的概念，產生夠強的 shear wave，再透過超高幀率超音波造
1/3
國科會補助出席國際學術會議心得報告
2011 年 2月 11日
報 告 人 姓 名電機系助理教授 李夢麟
會議期間及地點 01/22/2011–01/27/2011美國加州舊金山(San Francisco, CA)
會 議 名 稱
中文 : 2011 SPIE國際生醫光學研討會
英文 : 2011 SPIE International Symposium on Biomedical Optics
發 表 論 文 題 目
(1) A gold nanorod-based dual-modal, photoacoustic and
ultrasound, contrast-enhanced imaging technique for
monitoring focused-ultrasound induced blood-brain-barrier
opening
(2) Functional transcranial photoacoustic micro-imaging of
mouse cerebrovascular cross-section and hemoglobin
oxygenation changes during forepaw electrical stimulation
(3) Visualization of micro-calcifications using photoacoustic
imaging: feasibility study
參加會議經過
SPIE International Symposium on Biomedical Optics 2011 (PW 2011/ BiOS
2011)於 2011年 1月 22日至 27日於美國加州舊金山的Moscone Center 舉行。此
會議涵蓋生醫光學之各領域，從生醫光學物理原理、組織光學、光學治療及診斷、
奈米光學、各式生醫光學影像系統及處理到各種不同影像結合及臨床應用都有安
排議程。本人參加重點為該研討會下的 Conference 7899: Photons Plus Ultrasound:
Imaging and Sensing 2011。此 Photons Plus Ultrasound 研討會近幾年因
Photoacoustic imaging (或 Optoacoustic imaging)該領域的蓬勃發展，參與程度相當
踴躍，發表論文亦有一定水準，相信與會者皆感到不虛此行。本年度會議之重點，
一樣主要為 Biomedical Photoacoustics，但往年常見的 Acousto-optics漸漸式微，
大致上內容仍相當廣泛而且深入，例如相關的Translational Research, Small animal
imaging, Microscopy, Multimodality imaging, Functional imaging, Molecular
imaging, Nanoparticulate contrast agent及相關的系統設計、影像重建與信號處理
都包括在此會議的範疇。
本實驗室今年有三篇論文報告，發表題目(1): “(1) A gold nanorod-based
dual-modal, photoacoustic and ultrasound, contrast-enhanced imaging technique for
3/3
今年會議的重點之一為 OR-PAM，這是一個值得發展的光聲造影方向，亦能將其
技術應用於目前本實驗室進行的 photoacoustic neuro-imaging 的研究上，可惜取
得適當雷射光源經費太高，希望未來政府、國科會或國衛院能投入大筆經費大力
支持此類具前瞻性的生醫光學影像系統的創新與開發。另外，除了 Philips 外，
今年在會場亦發現 Samsung 超音波醫療器材部門也開始派人 survey 發展光聲的
可行性，若超音波廠商能將光聲技術融入其超音波系統中，則光聲離臨床系統和
應用的時程則不遠矣。
攜回資料名稱及內容:
1. 2011 Photonics West Technical Program 及 紙本論文集 (Photons Plus
Ultrasound: Imaging and Sensing 2011)
2. 光電參展廠商資訊，可作為採買新設備時之參考
97 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：李夢麟 計畫編號：97-2221-E-007-084-MY3 
計畫名稱：功能性光聲顯微影像系統於微細血管脈絡造影之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 14 6 95% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 2 3 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 5 6 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 4 3 98%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 17 6 95% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 2 3 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 5 6 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 ■申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
本計畫已完成一組頻暗場共軛焦功能性光聲顯微影像系統，並可依造影應用解析度的需
求，選擇 25-MHz 或 50-MHz 的工作頻率。並經活體小動物實驗驗證所開發的系統確能提供
高解析度及高對比微細血管脈絡影像，結合可調波長之脈衝雷射亦可用於擷取可提供每單
一血管血氧濃度的功能性血氧濃度影像。驗證了此系統對阿基里斯腱炎發炎過程中形態和
血管變化之長期連續性造影監控能力以及穿顱功能性小動物腦部造影的能力。此外，亦驗
證了了一嶄新的光聲應用的可行性 - 光聲乳房微鈣化造影。 
- 透過光聲造影對阿基里斯腱炎發炎過程中形態和血管變化之長期連續性造影監控: 此
為光聲造影之新應用，可望解決傳統都卜勒超音波於此應用靈敏度不足之問題，透過光聲
造影可提供另一新式的監控方式。此外，所架設的光聲顯微系統，亦可用於臨床前之動物
試驗，以了解阿基里斯腱發炎過程中血管變化之機轉 
- 功能性光聲顯微系統於穿顱功能性小動物腦部造影之應用:此亦為功能性光聲造影之新
應用，可提供穿顱功能性小動物腦部造影，可觀察到功能性電刺激時，單一血管，甚至單
一小動脈、小靜脈之 Cerebral Blood Volume、Total Hemoglobin Concentration 及 Blood 
Oxygenation 的變化，本團隊亦是第一個有系統地進行大、小鼠電刺激光聲穿顱腦功能性
影像研究的團隊。也是第一個用光聲顯微影像系統觀察到電刺激時血管內血氧 initial 
dip 現象的團隊。所得到的結果，可以與 MRI 所得到的資訊互補。未來可望再進一步整合
光聲血流速度量測技術，以量測單一血管 Metabolic rate 在功能性電刺激時的變化。 
- 光聲乳房微鈣化造影: 我們已初步驗證了光聲乳房微鈣化造影的可行性，接續此計畫，
