  2
中文摘要 : 當無線通訊技術正逐漸將 行動商務(Mobile Commerce) 轉變成一個電子商務
極為重要領域的同時，此技術也成為普遍式計算(Pervasive Computing) 的關鍵促成技術。 
普遍式計算提供多種新方法讓任何不同模式的電子裝置在任何不同的地方, 與個人電腦及
末端伺服器的連通器(Gateway)互通。 由於近來普遍式計算的發展，使用者及消費者對於
行動商務及其應用(例如:地點本位商務 Location-Based Commerce)的需求也相對的提昇。 
本計畫的重點在提出以服務導向計算、虛擬企業、普遍式計算、與協同商務 為基礎的觀
光系統架構與方法，並配合相關之系統及應用上的實作。開發實作完成後，本計畫亦針對
未來服務導向計算及普遍式計算對觀光旅遊服務業的發展及影響(包括商機及挑戰)加以
探討。 
 
關鍵詞：普遍式計算、多模式平台、科技化服務與應用、科技化觀光系統、服務導向架構、
使用者研究、科技整合 
 
Abstract:  While wireless technology turns m-commerce into an important area of e-commerce, 
it also becomes a key enabling technology of Pervasive Computing, which provides new ways of 
interfacing with a PC and/or various types of gateways to back-end servers from any wireless 
device, anywhere and anytime. With the recent advance of pervasive computing technology, the 
user/consumer needs for mobile commerce (m-commerce) and location-based commerce 
(l-commerce) are definitely on the rise. In tourism industry, unless the traditional tour company 
improves its competitiveness, by utilizing the emerging information technologies and innovative 
management methods, there is a danger for exogenous players to enter the marketplace, 
jeopardizing the position of the existing ones. 
Based on an integrated concept of Service Oriented Computing (SOC), Virtual Enterprise 
(VE), Pervasive Computing, and Collaborative Commerce, we proposed and designed a 
framework, called Integrative Information Architecture (IIA), to provide a dynamic, flexible and 
innovative strategic and tactical approach to the integration of tourism business management 
systems. Generally, VE provides a comprehensive guide to the key elements of successful 
cross-organization integration and collaborative e-commerce by highlighting business needs, 
information technologies, and management strategies. In this project, the application of VE is for 
integrating employees, business process, and resources within tourism industry. The potentials of 
applying IIA to contemporary tour companies for developing the cross-organizational tourism 
services system were covered. In addition, the attitude of the users/tourists towards using 
services provided through Pervasive SOC services, such as the location based service (LBS), at 
any place and any time would be investigated through empirical studies. The validated model 
and its corresponding study results can be referenced by enterprise executives and decision 
makers in tourism industry to make favorable tactics for taking advantage of the opportunity 
available through Pervasive SOC services such as LBS. 
 
Keywords: Pervasive Computing, Multimodal Platform, e-Services & Applications, e-Tourism 
System, Service Oriented Architecture, User Study, Technology Integration 
 
1. Introduction and Research Objectives 
The tourism enterprises that constitute integrated tourism management systems or a part of them 
typically are able to control costs and become more competitive in terms of efficiency and 
effectiveness. This is one of key factors in the phenomenal growth of web-based channels. Web 
channels have a profound effect on the way tourism products are marketed, distributed, sold and 
fulfilled (O’Connor and Frew, 2002). For example, Tsai et al. (2005) proposed an optimal 
business model and development strategy for tourism business management to take advantage of 
the opportunities offered by the Web. In addition to cooperating with each other as they did in 
the past, most channel participants started about ten years ago to compete by creating their own 
websites with information provision and booking facilities (Main, 1995). This trend not only 
remains the same ten years later, but will increase in the future, and that the tapestry of channels 
will continue to grow more complex and become increasingly influenced by web-based third 
  4
the delivery time should be taken into consideration as well. Therefore, we adopt the concept of 
intelligent agencies to solve the problem. Four agencies, including tour operator agency, tour 
manager agency, tour wholesaler agency and enterprise portal agency, are established to control 
and operate tourism business in IIA. In general, the tourism industry integration strategies must 
make sense from a resource-based point of view, if the value-creating potential of organizational 
capabilities and the advantages of intra-organizational coordination are taken into account. The 
resource-based view in strategic management interprets business integration as a way of finding 
new uses for existing resources or of filling gaps for organizations’ resource needs.  
Furthermore, an important design philosophy of IIA is to offer a flexible platform, which is 
not confined by any specific physical organizational structure or any specific business process 
implementation. To achieve this goal, we need to model organizations at different abstraction 
levels. Without losing the generality, we propose to use three levels (including the physical tour 
company level, the conceptual organization level, and the virtual enterprise level) of abstraction 
for mapping organizations from physical tour companies to conceptual organizations first, and 
subsequently mapping conceptual organizations into corresponding members of a VE. In our 
proposed IIA approach, a conceptual model is defined for creating and representing conceptual 
organizations. This conceptual model will support multiple levels of a conceptual organization 
for describing the links (business processes and collaborations) between VE members and the 
business relationships between the VE and its customers. Thus, physical organizations with 
various functional units will need to be mapped to conceptual organizations, which are derived 
from the proposed conceptual model. Through this flexible platform offered by IIA, each 
federation of tour companies within IIA is no longer viable. It will either disband or re-arrange 
itself into a new transactional relationship, which better fits customers’ needs among tour 
operators, tour managers, and tour wholesalers. As the VE membership of IIA continues to grow 
in size and complexity, the importance of managing such complexity increases. The relevant tour 
companies go through a process of trying to form a new federation to exploit the perceived niche 
when the new potentials of customers’ needs are recognized. In particular, the participants must 
cooperate and coordinate their activities in delivering the services of this newly formed 
organization. According to our observation, a dynamic federation approach is needed in order to 
meet the market’s requirements for quality, responsiveness, and customer satisfaction. 
 
Tour
company
1
Tour
company
3
Tour
company
2
Conceptual organization
Customers
Communication and
Interaction
Tour
operators
agency
Tour
wholesalers
agency
Tour
managers
agency
Tourism business
process management
agency
Virtual enterprise
Mapping
Enterprise
Portal
agency
Communication and
Interaction
 
Fig. 1: The development flow of IIA. 
 
The development of IIA framework unifies the domains of traditional tourism and 
collaborative commerce into a VE by using the federation–agent–workflow (FAW) model, 
which is a simulation-based development framework for establishing VE (Zhuge et al., 2002). 
  6
storage of information in the VE-based integrative information system, and uses web services 
technologies based on SOAP and Web Services Description Language (WSDL) for integrating 
tourism business. In our study, SOAP is used to exchange message-based documents between 
two VE members, and web services technology is used for delivering HTTP requests and HTTP 
responses. SOAP is ideal for B2B applications, since it is an XML-based protocol for exchange 
of information over the internet in a decentralized, distributed environment (W3C, 2005). Web 
services can be invoked by partner applications at run-time, over the internet. Indeed, 
just-in-time B2B application integration can be enabled by using web services which are 
internet-based, self-describing and self-contained modular applications in nature (W3C, 2005). 
Following the approach used by Perrin and Godart (2004), in our study a similar SOAP-based 
peer-to-peer conversation is engaged between the requester and the provider in VE. We also use 
SOAP to support collaborative work between VE members in IIA. When VE members decide to 
start a cooperative activity in order to fulfill a given objective, each VE member only describes 
its activities, and consequently, contracts are established to express conditions and terms of data 
exchange/sharing. As a matter of fact, a partner works in autonomy, having the ability to deliver 
ongoing version of its work to others and coordinating its activities using SOAP and web 
services. 
 
3. Conclusions 
An Integrative Information Architecture (IIA) supporting collaboration for integrating tourism 
business processes was designed to offer advantages of both workflow management systems and 
groupware systems, by allowing different partners work together once they defined cooperation 
rules corresponding to contract specification. IIA is able to coordinate the work progress and 
provide all participants with accurate information on work evolution. By supporting tourism 
business management functions and other tourism services flow control functions, IIA facilitates 
dynamic, flexible, tactical business operations in the integration of multiple business 
management systems. We also discuss the applications of VE and provide a feasible framework 
for the cross-organizational integration in tourism industry. VE provides a comprehensive guide 
to the key elements of successful cross-organizational integration and collaborative e-commerce 
by highlighting business needs, technologies, and development strategies. Based on the proposed 
conceptual model and development process, IIA adopts a web services enabled approach to the 
integration of tourism business management systems, and it can be used by contemporary tour 
companies to integrate their business processes and resources with their partners. 
Despite the challenges in observing XML-based business frameworks, there seem to be 
some common trends in their properties. Since the variety of the business documents and the 
speed of change will increase under the current development trend of internet technologies and 
collaborative commerce, the corresponding empirical studies, related to our VE research for 
tourism industry, with qualitative and quantitative analyses must be conducted in future research. 
It is believed that this kind of empirical studies will bring great benefit for measuring and 
controlling the performance of IIA. Besides, it may provide some hints and directions to enhance 
the value of IIA. In terms of applicability, this proposed VE-based information system 
architecture still needs to go through further study in more complicated and practical commercial 
environments. For example, it might be desirable for IIA participants to offer or bid 
products/services in the context of internal market, and therefore, it will become valuable to 
conduct future researches on enhancing IIA for this purpose. This enhancement will inevitably 
complicate the process flows, information description, and cross-organizational integration 
efforts of IIA. While we plan to create a new agent for automatically dealing with the process 
details required by internal market, adopting new internet technologies such as Semantic Web 
and Ontology for information description and information exchange is subject to our further 
investigation. 
 
4. Research Accomplishment – A Self Evaluation 
The result of this one-year research project met the original expectation in completing the 
research and system design of an Integrative Information Architecture (IIA) as described in the 
previous sections of this report. Additional descriptions of our research accomplishment are 
detailed in academic papers derived from this research. The developed system can be used to 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                            96 年 7 月 15 日 
報告人 
姓名 
張樹之 服務機構
及職稱 
國立中興大學電子商務研究所 
副教授 
會議時間 2007/6/16-2007/6/18 計畫編號 NSC-95-2221-E-005-100 
會議地點 中國大陸‧安徽省黃山市 計畫名稱 旅遊服務業之服務導向計算技術與應用
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 第9屆亞太網路學術會議暨第8屆國際網路年代資訊管理學術會議
2007年聯合會議之 WebETrends 2007 研討會 
 (英文) WebETrend 2007 – A workshop held in conjunction with the Joint International 
Conference of the 9th Asia-Pacific Web (APWeb) Conference and the 8th 
International Conference on Web-Age Information Management (WAIM)  
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 播客技術應用於行銷領域之關念、模型、與可行性之探討研究 
 (英文)  An Investigation and Conceptual Models of Podcast Marketing 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
本人於 2007 年 5 月 12 日透過傳真，向會議中心註冊參加 WebETrends 2007 研討
會，並於 2007 年 6 月 15 日啟程參加會議，會議時間共進行 2日(6 月 16 日至 6 月 17 日)
之研討，於 16 日下午進行本人參與此次會議的論文發表共計 2篇(其中本人宣讀發表 1
篇, 另 1 篇由共同作者謝教授宣讀發表)，最後在 18 日抵上海埔東機場，休息 1天後再
轉機返國。 
 
二、與會心得 
此次參與會議論文宣讀發表，乃個人第 2次於國際會議上以英文宣讀發表，經過
上次經驗累積，此次有較多的時間參與討論，在會場中，來自美國紐約 IBM T.J. Watson
研究中心的國際學者亦是 WebETrends 2007 研討會主席的 Dr. Haixun Wang 給予個人許多
珍貴的建議，對於個人學術靈感的啟發與理論基礎的訓練均有顯著的幫助。除此之外，
在研討會中亦有機會和與會學者討論互動，獲得之建議更可作為未來此論文投稿至國際
期刊的修改方向。 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
 
四、建議 
個人此次參與該國際研討會，共計發表論文 2篇，但國科會補助經費不足以支付旅
費以及兩篇論文之註冊費，實為一美中不足之處。 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
2007 年 APWeb/WAIM Workshops 2007 國際會議會議摘要乙冊，以及論文集乙冊內含
所有與會報告之 Workshop 論文全文。本人此次參與國際會議論文宣讀發表之論文登載
於 EI 檢索之 Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 其相關出版資料如下: 
 
• Shuchih Ernest Chang & Muharrem Cevher (2007), "An investigation and conceptual 
附件三
 
K.C. Chang et al. (Eds.): APWeb/WAIM 2007 Ws, LNCS 4537, pp. 264–275, 2007. 
© Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2007 
An Investigation and Conceptual Models of Podcast 
Marketing 
Shuchih Ernest Chang∗ and Muharrem Cevher 
Institute of Electronic Commerce, National Chung Hsing University, 
250 Kuo Kuang Road, Taichung City 402, Taiwan 
Tel.: +886 4 22859465; Fax: +886 4 22859497 
eschang@dragon.nchu.edu.tw, m_cevher@mynet.com 
Abstract. While podcastig is growing rapidly and gains huge popularity, adver-
tising has shown up as an emerging topic throughout the podcasting world. The 
objective of this study is to shed light on the potentials of podcasting as a new 
media technology for marketing, by investigating its applicability and effec-
tiveness for targeted advertising and its value as a new way of communicating 
with captive audiences. Our study also tried to propose conceptual models for 
taking advantage of the unique strength of podcast technology to overcome the 
limitations of traditional channels and to enhance the effectiveness and effi-
ciency of traditional marketing practice. For example, considered as a pull 
mechanism, podcast might be used to enhance marketing strategy for attracting 
a niche audience, particularly in the event that when traditional marketing ap-
proach becomes outdated or inconvenient for customers. A qualitative case 
study approach was adopted in our research to explore subject matter experts’ 
experiences and feelings concerning adaptability of podcast to advertising, and 
moreover their expectations of podcasting as an advertising medium. Our re-
search findings may be referenced by business executives and decision makers 
for the purpose of making favorable marketing tactics and catching the revolu-
tionary opportunity and benefit of podcast advertising.  
1   Introduction 
Just two years ago, the term ‘podcast’ was considered for inclusion in the New 
Oxford American Dictionary of English (NOAD). Due to its rapid growth in 
popularity, ‘podcast’ was thereafter not only being added into NOAD in early 2006, 
but declared as the Word of the Year for 2005 by the editors of NOAD. NOAD 
defines the term ‘podcast’ as “a digital recording of a radio broadcast or similar 
program, made available on the Internet for downloading to a personal audio player” 
[1]. Wikipedia defines that a podcast is a media file that is distributed by subscription 
(paid or unpaid) over the Internet using syndication feeds, for playback on mobile 
devices and personal computers, and states that the publish/subscribe model of 
podcasting is a version of push technology, in that the information provider chooses 
which files to offer in a feed and the subscriber chooses among available feed 
                                                          
∗
 Corresponding author. 
266 S.E. Chang and M. Cevher 
each step in the value chain, the requirement of new businesses and business models 
for full commercialization of podcasting started to emerge [9]. Podcasting provides 
listeners the convenience of time-shifting and space independence to listen to media 
files, i.e., after downloading podcast programs onto their handheld devices, listeners 
can listen to or view the content anytime and anyplace at their convenience. That is 
why it has got fast growth. Nevertheless, podcasting has also been pointed out as a 
shift for personalization of media from mass broadcasting [10]. 
Nowadays, it is really getting difficult to reach people by e-mail due to various 
barriers and issues such as junk mails and spam filters, and similarly, it is hard to get 
or sustain people’s loyalty on a website since we cannot be sure that people will visit 
the website again. However, podcasting takes the advantage of offering the capability 
and opportunity to listeners for subscribing to their interested podcast programs, and 
consequently we can be sure that the subscribers will receive the new shows/contents. 
Thus, podcasting helps businesses to increase their marketing reach and online 
visibility, and also promises to get regular line of communication with subscribers and 
to obtain their loyalty [8]. 
Podcasting is quite a virgin medium which promises to open up new avenues in 
corporate marketing, especially in a sense that podcasting has been posited to get a 
captive audience group. The corporate marketers should use podcasting to 
complement traditional marketing channels. With audio, the promotional inserts can 
be conveyed. Audio ads are rarely ignored completely by audiences if they are aimed 
at the correct target. This is because listeners are seldom bothered to skip the ads, if 
the duration of ads is adjusted well or the ads are interspersed in the program. 
Podcasting is considered as a suitable medium to achieve the goals of audio 
advertising, but determining the true numbers and demographics of listeners is 
considered as not only critical information but serious challenge for advertisers. In 
addition, podcast advertising has some problems. For example, podcast ads may have 
already been over, but outdated programs/shows might be available on the net for 
long time and the programs still can be shared among the listners indefinetely. 
Another problem with advertising with podcasts is measurement. Getting a true idea 
of how much response there was to the advertised product or brand as the result of a 
particular podcast advertisement is very difficult, beyond increased hits of the 
podcasts on the net.  
The easiest way of advertising in podcasting is sponsorship, and it is beneficial to 
implement and reinforce brand profiles as opposed to specific products. Sponsorship 
in podcasting could be inexpensive and highly related to the content of podcasting 
programs. While podcast can be easily produced without any technical background, 
its production costs depend on how simple or elaborate the desired podcast is. 
However, the costs of radio (audio) production are generally low and manageable 
compared to other mass mediums. For example, it is known that quality radio 
commercials can be produced for a fraction of the cost of a quality television 
commercial [11].  
2.2   Comparison of Relevant Advertising Mediums  
Since podcasting is capable of distributing audio, video, and text contents to handheld 
devices, advertising via podcast shows shares some similar characteristics with some 
268 S.E. Chang and M. Cevher 
In contract, traditional marking skill was outdated to promote in mobile environment 
because it is not convenient or not visible for mobile customers. However, SMS in 
marketing only props up text contents, and therefore, talking about the visual 
activities is out of SMS marketing’s concern. SMS in marketing presents only limited 
occasions for advertiser.  
2.2.5   E-Mail Advertising 
Sending e-mails to potential customers can be viewed as a marketing tool to promote 
products or services, and it is one of the cheapest ways to transmit ads. However, 
advertisers are in a jam with spam filters, and therefore, may not be sure that the cus-
tomer received the e-mail or not. On the other hand, customers do not show respect to 
e-mail ads, and often delete e-mails containing ads without having a look. Thus,  
e-mail advertising might become wasting time for advertiser. E-mail advertising is 
still in use mainly because of its fee free feature, though it may be difficult to stay in 
touch with target customers through e-mail.  
2.3   RSS as an Important Ingredient of Podcasting  
One of the most important ingredients of podcasting is in its offering direct download 
or streaming of content automatically, by using software capable of reading data feed 
in standard formats such as Really Simple Syndication (RSS). According to 
Wikipedia, RSS is a simple XML-based system that allows users to subscribe to their 
favorite websites. Podcasters, defined as the hosts or authors of podcast programs, can 
put their content into RSS format, which can be viewed and organized through RSS-
aware software or automatically conveyed as new content to another website. Such 
capability of RSS for delivering content to end-users is unprecedented because it is 
unique in a sense that it forces marketers to become more relevant and sensitive to the 
needs of their target audiences. RSS offers marketers to easily, inexpensively and 
quickly get their content delivered to their customers, business partners, the media, 
employees, and others throughout the World Wide Web. Nevertheless, RSS content 
can be delivered to other websites, search engines, and specialized RSS directories. 
RSS is a content delivery channel that allows marketers to easily deliver Internet 
content to the target audiences, while eliminating a large portion of unwanted noises 
and shortcomings of other delivery channels.  
By using RSS, podcasting presents the business opportunities valuable for general 
marketing communications, direct marketing, PR, advertising, customer relationship 
management, online publishing, e-commerce to internal enterprise communications, 
and internal knowledge management, especially in terms of getting a niche but 
attentive audience and gaining the repeat consumer exposure [12]. In addition to the 
adoption of RSS as the blog-inspired subscription format, podcasting also inherits 
advantages from other aspects including: high-speed Internet connections suitable for 
downloading large files, availability of digital music player software and weblog 
software, increasing popularity of digital audio and video devices such as iPods, MP3 
and MP4 players, and the ubiquitous MP3 audio format. 
270 S.E. Chang and M. Cevher 
In this era of digital economy, most companies more or less involve in 
collaborative activities with other organizations, in order to become more efficient 
and cost-effective in terms of operating various business functions including 
marketing. Our second conceptual model (see Fig. 2) for conducting podcast 
advertising addresses the need of collaborative marketing, which allow companies to 
share resources (people, teams, hardware and software, knowledge and expertise, 
talent, and idea) with business partners. In particular, this model emphasizes the 
synergy of integrating various marketing teams from different companies into a more 
competent consortium, in which many teams can collaboratively work together for 
achieving the goals of promoting their products, servicing podcasting customers, and 
developing new marketing strategies. It is suggested that a more comprehensive 
analysis on customer survey with regards to market sensing, marketing plans, and 
business practices is needed to close the knowledge gaps between the service 
providers and customers [14].  
 
 
Fig. 2. Conceptual Model for Collaborationist Advertising (where C1, C2, and Cn represent the 
delivery of Content_A1/Content_B1, Content_A2/Content_B2, and Content_An/ Content_Bn 
respectively, and S1, S2, and Sn represent the subscription of Content_A1/ Content_B1, 
Content_A2/Content_B2, and Content_An/Content_Bn respectively) 
As shown in Fig. 2, the conceptual model of “Collaborationist Podcast for 
Advertising” is talking about sharing a cooperative strategy for producing specific 
advertising contents, distributing ads, and going ahead with marketing projects. 
Companies can do collaboration to improve the efficiency and quality of the 
advertising activities, and producing more professional advertisements and 
perpetuating long-term projects which needs to spend big money can get easy by this 
collaborative strategy.  However, the marketing concept must be broadened to include 
new views such as appreciating the customer as an active individual in an interactive 
process, and developing an effective business strategy in utilizing an emerging 
medium for a cooperative effort that includes the customer.  
Target Client n 
Medium 
(Podcasting)
Target Client 1 
Target Client 2 
C1
C2
Cn
S1
S2
Sn 
…
Content_A1 
Content_A2 
Content_An 
…
Firm 
Firm 
Content_B1 
Content_B2 
Content_Bn 
…
Firm 
Firm 
Firm 
C
o
n
so
rtiu
m
 1
C
o
n
so
rtiu
m
 2
272 S.E. Chang and M. Cevher 
with us for the interviews located in Taiwan. One of the interviewees is a marketing 
manager of an integrated marketing and advertising company. The other one is a 
marketing manager in the wealth management department of a financial company. 
The last one is an executive of a system company providing software and services. 
The data was collected by the following questions asked at each interview: 
 
à Do you think if the podcasting is useful for advertising? 
à Why you think companies should add this new technology into their marketing 
mix? 
à Do companies need to do specialization of their ads? 
à How you think podcasting can help in advertising/marketing? 
à What are your opinions about the two-way interaction function of the models? 
 
The titles below were discussed with the interviewees mainly to get their opinions 
about our project titled “An Investigation and Conceptual Models of Podcast 
Marketing”. 
 
à Current Situation of Advertising Sector 
à Advertising Needs of Companies  
à The Adoptability of the Project  
à The Usefulness of the Project 
à Advantages and Disadvantages of the Project 
à The Threats on the Project  
à Two Way Interaction Feature of the Project  
 
Although the interview method possesses the advantage of offering the rich details, it 
reaches thoughts and feelings rather than direct observations. As mentioned earlier, 
the qualitative research approach (interview) used in this study may include the 
subjectivities of the researcher and participants as part of the research process. The 
inclusion of subjectivity is due to the ratification that there may be several different 
perspectives which should be explored. Indeed, retaining subjectivity may be 
advantageous to promote multiplicity of viewpoints in trying to understand the 
phenomena deeply [15]. 
5   Results  
It is mentioned by the interviewees that although there were disadvantages of using 
traditional broadcasting channels as the mediums of advertising, those traditional 
mediums were still useful for advertising companies. According to one interviewee’s 
experience, podcasting may provide an alternative advertisement channel particularly 
valuable for integrated marketing, and an effective integrated marketing strategy 
should always consider the adoption of innovative and useful channel, such as 
podcasting, into its marketing mix. It is also suggested by the interviewee that 
podcasting may be easily accepted as an advertising tool by companies focused on 
consumer goods, but at the same time, it would be difficult to clearly measure the 
performance of this kind of advertising activities because of the integrated marketing 
concept. For example, while podcasting web site can allow users to discuss on the 
274 S.E. Chang and M. Cevher 
Our interview results suggested that podcasting may become a useful tool for 
advertising and marketing, and this new technology can be used by companies to 
target in particular the market segment of young people since podcast consumers are 
typically younger, more affluent, and more likely to be influencers. Indeed, younger 
consumers are more attentive, giving brands the opportunity to target their 
advertisements more specifically by podcasting. Furthermore, the two-way interaction 
feature was applauded by the subject matter experts, and the opinions derived from 
them were generally positive upon the proposed conceptual models (see Fig. 1 and 
Fig. 2) for conducting podcast advertising. As a consequence, podcasting technology 
has the potentials to create new marketing impact and generate valuable result, alter 
the competitive landscape of business, and change existing societal and market 
structures. Podcasting enables interactions between customer and advertiser that 
become increasingly rapid and easy. However, still little is known about how this new 
technology can be used successfully in terms of being incorporated into the integrated 
marketing activities.  
In summary, podcast advertising refers to the transmission of advertising messages 
via RSS which provides subscription opportunity, and specialization of ads is possible 
by podcast, although conceptually the use of podcasting for conducting mass media 
advertising is non-personal. Podcasting containing specialization of ads and 
interactivity effects may make it as important as we point out. 
References 
1. Oxford University Press: Podcast is the Word of the Year. Oxford University Press, USA 
(December 2005), http://www.oup.com/us/brochure/NOAD_podcast/?view=usa/ 
2. Wikipedia: Podcast. Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia, (accessed January 23, 2007) 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Podcast 
3. Bruen Productions: Is Your Company Podcasting? 7th Annual Circulation Summit, Ari-
zona, USA (January 26-27, 2006) http://bruen.com/pdf/PodcastingForNPs.pdf 
4. Bausch, S., Han, L.: Podcasting Gains an Important Foothold among U.S. Adult Online 
Population, According to Nielsen/NetRatings. Nielsen/NetRatings, New York, (July 2006) 
5. Chapman, M.: Podcasting: Who Is Tuning In? eMarketer, New York, (March 2006) 
6. Dickinger, A., Haghirian, P., Murphy, J., Scharl, A.: An Investigation and Conceptual 
Model of SMS Marketing. In: Proceedings of the 37th Hawaii International Conference on 
System Sciences, pp. 31-41 (2004) 
7. Balasubraman, S., Peterson, R.A., Jarvenpaa, S.L.: Exploring the Implications of M-
commerce for Markets and Marketing. Journal of the Academy of Marketing Sci-
ence 30(4), 348–361 (2002) 
8. Rumford, R.L.: What You Don’t Know About Podcasting Could Hurt Your Business: 
How to Leverage & Benefit from This New Media Technology. Podblaze, California 
(2005) http://www.podblaze.com/podcasting-business-whitepaper.php 
9. Necat, B.: One Application to Rule Them All. ITNOW (Focus: The. Future of the 
Web) 48(5), 6–7 (2006), http://itnow.oxfordjournals.org/cgi/reprint/48/5/6 
10. Crofts, S., Dilley, J., Fox, M., Retsema, A., Williams, B.: Podcasting: A New Technology 
in Search of Viable Business Models. First Monday vol. 10(9) (2005) http:// 
www.firstmonday.org/issues/issue10_9/crofts/index.html 
