 2
摘要 
本研究的目的是為了評估人們在駕駛中進行自然通話的行為是否會造成影響，並提供
駕駛者使用免持聽筒的通訊設備時進行不同通話性質對駕駛績效的比較。因此，在本次的
實驗，採用的研究工具是具有高真實度的駕駛模擬系統，參與人員共找了 24 位，其中包含
駕駛者以及與駕駛者進行溝通行為的同伴。在研究方法中，本次實驗把探討的自然通話類
型分為三種，第一種為主題式的交談，其次是誘導式溝通，第三種為談判式對話，談話內
容則是參照台灣民眾常見的對話形式。最後，研究結果顯示，有目的的對話（誘導式與談
判式交談）比起正常駕駛來說，更容易增加駕駛者的工作負荷以及產生有害的駕駛行為（例
如反應時間變慢和對左右來車位置變化的注意力減弱）。除此之外，為了可以更安全行車，
駕駛者可以採取延長談話的間隔時間與降低車速等方式來應付注意力的分散，達到必須進
行對話的需求 
 
Abstract 
The objective of this research was to assess the effect of naturalistic conversation on driving 
behavior and provide a direct comparison of the driving performance of hands-free phone drivers 
among naturalistic conversations.  The experiment was conducted on a high–fidelity driving 
simulator, with 24 participants divided into driver and conversation partner.  The conversation 
was classified into three types (theme, elicitation, and negotiation) by referring to the common 
dialogue of the public in Taiwan.  The results showed the purposive task (elicitation and 
negotiation) caused increase of driver’s workload and adverse effects in driver behavior (e.g. 
reaction time and variation of lateral position) compared to normal driving.  In addition, drivers 
might adopt compensation strategies to cope with the additional expenditure of attention to the 
demand of conversation, such as longer headway and lower driving speed. 
 4
與績效量測的量化，所採用的實驗方法時常存在下述幾種盲點，而左右實驗結果與推論： 
1. 採用人工化通話內容（非真實對話） 
從過去研究分析，可以將通話作業分成人工通話和自然通話兩類，人工通話又分成三
種形式，第一種是數學計算式，最常被使用在此類的研究議題中(Shinar et al., 2002; Hancock 
et al., 2003; Patten et al., 2004; Shinar et al., 2005; Liu and Lee, 2005; Lin and Chen, 2006），主
要是要駕駛員計算並回答由施測員口述的數學題目，例如兩位數加法。令人惋惜的是，似
乎這類研究人員都沒有去解釋人工通話與真實世界中的對話之間的差異之處，以及彼此之
間的關係又為何 (Dragutinovic and Twisk, 2005)？在不清楚的狀態下，何以能使用人工通話
結果來解釋真實通話與駕駛的行為。Rakauskas et al. (2004)也明確指出人工通話較自然通話
比較容易去實作以及量化其通話作業本身的績效（Secondary task performance），但是其本
身卻不是典型的對話（Typical conversations），也難以表達實際在駕駛時通話其當下的心智
需求（Demands of drivers in conversing by a cell phone）。Shinar et al. (2005) 亦認為採用數學
計算作業來當作自然通話的替代品是非常有問題的。再者，人工通話內容都顯得拗口與不
自然，非常不切實際，無法完整表現出一般通話內容所牽涉到的記憶和情緒（Memory and 
Emotional）兩大特點，所以採用人工化題型勢必缺少情緒感受，而人與機器最大的不同便
是在於變異性大，深受生理心理狀態影響，所以此種模擬所生的結果與實際的落差是必然
的。為了破除上述疑慮，以更確切的通話內容進行駕車研究，釐清手機通話所產生的實際
干擾，已是無法避免的重要課題。 
2. 壓抑受測者通話自主意願（被動通話） 
絕大部分的通話作業步調，都是由操控實驗的一方決定的（Experimental-paced），很不符
合現實駕車時的通話情境。例如：人工化題型 (Artificial Test) 造成的一問一答的被動節奏。 
光由這兩點缺陷，可明確認定過往的實驗方式確實不盡理想。因此，有研究人員開始
意識到並嘗試去解決此一關鍵性問題，利用採行較為貼近日常生活對話的實驗方式來進行
評估，例如，Rakauskas et al.（2004）研究中聲稱使用自然通話（Naturalistic cell phone 
conversations），其方式乃是將通話內容分成題目較難與較易兩種等級，作者要求大學生依
過往經驗列出不影響駕駛作業的通話主題，並參考書籍（The book of question），定義出最
後題型，再由多位人士予以評價給分（1～5），低於 2 分者歸屬於簡單題型、反之排入困難
題型。例如，「明天午後計畫做什麼？下週一早上九點有空和我見面嗎？」皆屬簡易型。困
難型有如下述範例，「假如新藥發展出來可以醫治痛風，但會有百分之二的機率產生噁心副
作用，你會考慮使用嗎？你的理由是？」很明顯地，這些題目已遠離僵化的通話內容，但
仍然流露著被動式的通話傾向，感受不到駕駛員參與並主導通話的方向與內容，有違自然
情況下雙方通話時，其間通話主導權不時遞善的原則。Beede and Kass (2006) 則採用視覺
空間議題為內容的通話作業，例如：“How do I get to school from train station?” or “ How many 
windows do you have in your home”。另外，近期一份文獻中其通話方式是收集 120 題的日
常生活問項，作為駕駛員與施測者之間通話內容的依據，例如：“What kind of music do you 
appreciate and why?”（Ferlazzo et al., 2008)。這兩份近期的文獻，仍然保有著 Rakauskas（2004）
這份研究相同的缺陷，亦即駕駛員缺乏主導談話內容與方向的特性。 
另外，Shinar et al. (2005）採用數學作業和情感式對話（Emotionally conversation）做為
手機通話內容，為達到情感化的對談，必須要先針對駕駛員背景進行瞭解，得知此人社會
經驗、喜好、興趣後，研擬出可以激起情感投射的通話內容。例如，此人是熱切某職業籃
球隊之球迷，言談主題對準了該球隊近期的戰績、明星球員的特質與球風等等。結果顯示，
情感通話對於車輛操控破壞力遠低於數學題目，甚至跟沒有通話作業的控制組，在特定的
績效指標下進行比較，發覺兩者之間幾無差異。表面上結果雖令人可喜（通話作業似不影
 6
b. 主題式通話（Theme conversation） 
 Crundall et al. (2005) 進行通話作業對駕駛安全的影響時，其對話方式為工作人員藉
由某一通話主題，不斷和駕駛員一方通話，希望能誘導駕駛員講出內定的詞彙（大意
相同即可），吾人將依此範例作為本實驗主題式通話模式。另一個通話作業-誘導關鍵
字通話，進行方式與主題式通話一模一樣，差別在於改由駕駛員去引導通話員講出關
鍵詞彙。。      
c. 誘導關鍵字通話（Induction conversation） 
此通話為主題式通話的變形，改由駕駛員誘導通話員講出事先自行指定的各個關鍵
詞，此時通話員並不知道被引導，因為事前工作人員只告訴他要和駕駛員閒聊。 
d. 談判式通話（Negotiation conversation） 
時下常見通話雙方為保護個人利益，而進行事務的協調與談判。而本通話作業正是臨
摹如此的通話內容，劇本圍繞於產品競價之上，雙方以此為戰場進行攻防。 
駕駛績效指標      
a. 車速維持（Speed maintenance） 
含平均車速和車速變異兩項，抽樣頻率為每秒兩筆（2HZ）。 
b. 道路偏移量（Lane position maintenance） 
計算沿途中偏離道路中線位置的變異量，每秒量測兩筆。 
c. 車距（Headway） 
     高速公路駕駛本身即設定為跟車作業，因此將全程量測與前車間的距離，  
d. 碰撞頻率（Frequency of collision） 
  衝撞前車的次數，在高速路上採用模擬器自行記錄，在市區道路上則是依賴人工紀錄。  
e. 煞車反應時間（Brake reaction time）：高速公路上採跟車作業，因此當前車的尾燈亮
時（減速時），受測者必須快速的反應-踩煞車。 
實驗步驟 
首先，通話員與受測者將依照指定的時間分別抵達實驗場所的不同房間，此時各有工
作人員對於兩者施予實驗前教育，若就受測者而言，需告知實驗的目的與內容、模擬環境
及駕控方式說明、次級作業內容與要達到的目標，再來便是對實驗進行方式、流程與注意
事項清楚瞭解，以上的說明將會錄製一段訓練影片供受測者觀看（歷時 10 分鐘），影片結
束後會給受測者有發問的機會。另外，尚須完成問卷，包含註明個人背景資料、簽署參與
實驗同意書、填寫使用手機的經驗、駕車特質等。最後尚須親自駕駛模擬器並對實驗用的
道路場景熟悉，方能進行實驗。通話員也需瞭解上述部分概念，以及清楚自身任務，並了
解本身最重要的績效指標為何？通話過程注意事項等。 
為了產生貼近自然的對話與熟悉各式對話，除了挑選相識的成對參與人員之外，更於
實驗前由施測者帶領練習各種通話的方式，必要時讓受測者與通話員雙方進行短暫對話練
習。  
1. 依據之前選定的實驗組合，做好相關的設定與準備（例如：開啟 DV 攝影、耳機戴上）。 
2. 在啟動模擬器後受測者必須盡快選定一輛車跟隨。當受測者自覺跟車作業穩定後，視作
業需求由自身撥話給通話員或反向為之（注意：若由通話員撥號，則在撥號前會由主試
員通知，駕駛員已經準備好了，可以隨機撥號了）。聲響三聲後自動接通並開始通話，
主試員也在此時啟動量測作業的熱鍵與通話警示器（計時）。當通話結束的現象出現時
（通話員掛斷電話，或是受測者說『掛電話』，或是通話時限終了），主試員將關閉系統
以及其他儀器設備。 
 8
誘導關鍵字   6.945  
F(3,33)=4.254, P<0.05 
在此類的自然通話中，受測者的經驗、感受、想法就是雙方談話的重要依據，過程中
往往牽涉到情緒的起伏，此一因素極可能影響到雙手穩定的操控，因此即便雙手不自覺的
微幅轉動方向盤，其反應在車輛行駛的過程中，便是左右飄移的現象，亦即道路位位置變
化量增加。表 3 呈現出無通話明顯小於誘導式與談判式通話，卻與主題式通話相似，而主
題式通話又與談判式有顯著差異。簡言之，伴隨通話難度的增加，道路位置變化量有顯著
增加的趨勢。 
表 3 Tukey test of conversation content on the mean of standard deviation of lateral
position 
  Subset 
Conversation content 1 2 3  
無通話 0.602      
主題式 0.663  0.663    
誘導關鍵字   0.759  0.759  
談判式     0.816  
F(3,33)=8.352, P<0.001 
Strayer et al.(2003)指出採用牽涉到空間與語意編碼的一般通話，會與駕駛作業本身的
空間編碼產生衝突，因此導致駕駛員透過拉長車距以求降低整體作業負荷及提高安全水
準。在本實驗中談判式通話是由空間編碼組成居多與駕駛作業產生的衝突大，其所造成的
車距延長效應比單純以語意編碼為主的通話內容-主題式對話，所造成的車距要大的多，而
誘導式雖也是語意編碼的情境較多，但由於誘導式通話要受測者負責引導，心智負荷比主
題式通話大，所以車距拉大到跟談判式通話接近(見表 4)。 
表 4 Tukey test of conversation content on headway  
  Subset 
Conversation content 1 2 3  
無通話 8.150      
主題式   9.640    
誘導關鍵字     11.352  
談判式     12.069  
F(3,33)=32.197, P<0.001  
  過去有文獻指出（Consiglio et al., 2003; Strayer and Drews, 2004），駕駛員受通話作業的
影響而延長煞車反應時間，在表 5 中，也呼應此一結果，與無通話駕駛相較之下，主題式
通話與與誘導式通話導致反應時間慢了 27.1% 與 28.7%，而談判式通話則繼續使此一指標
惡化，總計慢了約 53%。由於煞車燈亮起是無預警的瞬間事件，需要駕駛員意識到此一訊
號，並且由大腦下動作指令（踩煞車），而後者這一動作應該不受通話影響，而前者可能因
為通話作業正在進行，佔用較多中央處理資源而受到排擠，尤其因為「看到煞車燈亮」這
個影像，在大腦處理過程中無疑地是屬於空間編碼，對於採用空間編碼成分居多的談判式
通話而言，兩者的衝突更形加大，因此談判式通話下降最多。而誘導式通話與主題式通話，
 10
cognitive processing demand on driving performance. Accident Analysis & Prevention, 38, 
895-906. 
Bruyas, M.-P., Chapon, A., Lelekov-Boissard, T., Letisserand, D., Duraz, M., and Aillerie, I., 
2006, Évaluation de l’impact de communications vocales sur la conduite automobile (an 
evaluation of the impact of vocal communication on the driving task). Recherche Transports 
Securite, 91, 99–119. 
Consiglio, W., Driscoll, P., Witte M., and Berg, W.P., 2003, Effect of cellular telephone 
conversations and other potential interference on reaction time in a braking response. 
Accident Analysis and Prevention, 35(4), 495-500. 
Crundall, D., Bains, M., Chapman, P., and Underwood, G., 2005, Regulating conversation during 
driving: a problem for mobile telephones. Transportation Research Part F, 8, 197-211. 
Dragutinovic, N., and Twisk, D., 2005, Use of mobile phones while driving – effects on road 
safety; A literature review. R-2005-12. SWOV, Leidschendam. 
Ferlazzo, F., Fagioli, S., Nocera, F.D., and Sdoiaa, S., 2008, Shifting attention across near and far 
spaces: Implications for the use of hands-free cell phones while driving. Accident Analysis & 
Prevention, 40, 1859-1864. 
Haigney, D., Taylor, D.E., & Westerman, S.J., 2000, Concurrent mobile (cellular) phone use and 
driving performance: task demand characteristics and compensatory processes. Transportation 
Research Part F, 3, 113-121. 
Hancock, P.A., Lesch, M., and Simmons, L., 2003, The distraction effects of phone use during a 
crucial driving maneuver. Accident analysis and prevention, 35 (4), 501–504. 
Horrey, W.J., and Wickens, C.D., 2006, Examining the impact of cell phone conversations on 
driving using meta-analytic techniques. Human Factors, 48(1), 196-205. 
Kass, S.J., Cole, K.S., and Stanny, C.J., 2007, Effects of distraction and experience on situation 
awareness and simulated driving. Transportation Research Part F,10, 321-329. 
Liu, B.S., and Lee, Y.H., 2005, Effects of car-phone use and aggressive disposition while 
approaching signalized intersections, Transportation Research Part F, 8, 4-5, 369-382 
Lin, C.J., and Chen, H.J., 2006, Verbal and cognitive distractors in driving performance while 
using hands-free phones. Perceptual and Motor Skills, 103, 803-10. 
Matthews, R., Legg, S., and Charlton, S., 2003, The effect of cell phone type on drivers 
subjective workload during concurrent driving and conversing. Accident Analysis and 
Prevention, 35, 451-457. 
McEvoy, S.P., Stevenson, M.R., McCartt, A.T., Woodward, M., Haworth, C., Palamura, P., and 
Cercarelli, R., 2005, Role of mobile phones in motor vehicle crashes resulting in hospital 
attendance: A case-crossover study. British Medical Journal, 331, 428-430. 
Nunes, L.M., and Recarte, M.A., 2002, Cognitive demands of hands-free-phone conversation 
while driving. Transportation Research Part F, 5, 133-144. 
Patten, C.J.D., Kircher, A., Östlund, J., and Nilsson, L., 2004, Using mobile telephones: cognitive 
workload and attention resource allocation. Accident analysis and prevention, 36, 341–350. 
Rakauskas, M., 2003, Effects of cell phone conversation difficulty on driving performance. 
Proceedings of the Second International Driving Symposium on Human Factors in Driver 
Assessment, Training and Vehicle Design. 
Rakauskas, M.E., Gugerty, L.J., and Ward, N.J., 2004, Effects of naturalistic cell phone 
conversation on driving performance. Journal of safety research, 35(4), 453-464.  
Redelmeier, D.A., and Tibshirani, R.J., 1997, Association between cellular telephone calls and 
motor vehicle collisions. New England Journal of Medicine, 336, 453-458. 
Rosenbloom, T., 2006, Driving performance while using cell phones: An observational study. 
Journal of Safety Research, 37, 207-212. 
Rospa (Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents), 2002, The risk of using a mobile phone 
while driving. On-line paper. Available at http://www.rospa.com/ pdfs 
 12
附件一 
陳宏瑞 君 出席HCI2009國際會議心得報告 
 
本人執行國科會計畫 NSC 98-2218-E-231-003，有幸參與在美國加州聖地
牙哥舉辦的人與電腦互動國際研討會，除了增進學術交流增廣眼界外，在會議
場所也結交多位此一研究領域的外國友人，有助於未來雙向多邊交流的機會. 
    本人這次共發表兩篇學術論文，都是以POSTER形式在大型展示廳呈現研究
成果，許多研究人員對於這兩篇論文有著相當的興趣，與本人互動頗多，同時
也給了很多的建議與批評，讓自己受惠很多，尤其是在實驗方法的改進方面，
例如對於駕駛模擬這篇論文，有英國學者就建議要我們改良駕駛模擬器的功
能，同時增加受測人員的年齡分布，會使實驗結果更具說服力。有學者則是要
求我們將更進一步的研究資料在回國後轉寄給他們，而我本人在現場待命的同
時，有抽空看了其他研究人員的成果，並將其報告內容以攝影機拍攝留存，以
便回府後仔細參考。另外，扣除現場解說時間，本人也去參與四場parallel 
paper presentations,共計16篇論文的現場發表，聽的津津有味，雖然有些領
域與自己的差異甚大，在凝聽過程也不是完全瞭解，但卻不時刺激自己回顧過
往研究的手法，開啟新的創意，現場也就快速將想法記錄下來，相信對日後申
請計畫有莫大幫助。 
 14
 
圖二：本人發表內容 
 
 
 
圖三：會場前看板 
 16
附件二   
Effects of Different Types of Naturalistic Conversation on Driving 
Performance Using Simulated Driving 
Hung J. Chen1,*, Chiuhsiang Joe Lin2, Wan Y. Lin1 
1Department of Industrial Engineering and management, Ching Yun University, Chung Li, Taiwan 32097 
2Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering, College of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Chung Yuan 
Christian University, Chung Li, Taiwan 32023 
*simle@cyu.edu.tw 
Abstract. The objective of this research was to assess the effect of naturalistic 
conversation on driving behaviour and provide a direct comparison of the driving 
performance of hands-free phone drivers among naturalistic conversations.  The 
experiment was conducted on a high–fidelity driving simulator, with 24 participants 
divided into driver and conversation partner.  The conversation was classified into 
three types (theme, elicitation, and negotiation) by referring to the common dialogue 
of the public in Taiwan.  The results showed the purposive task (elicitation and 
negotiation) caused increase of driver’s workload and adverse effects in driver 
behavior (e.g. reaction time and variation of lateral position) compared to normal 
driving.  In addition, drivers might adopt compensation strategies to cope with the 
additional expenditure of attention to the demand of conversation, such as longer 
headway and lower driving speed. 
Keywords: Driving Distraction; Naturalistic Conversation; Driving Simulator.  
1   Introduction 
Driver distraction is important cause of traffic incident; especially, in-vehicle technology devices 
are key source of distraction.  As the rapid growing of using cellular phone, the cell phone has 
been the most popular addition in vehicle [1].  Cell phone enables a driver to interact with 
remote friends socially and helps people to utilize the time more efficiently, for instance, 
searching support in case of emergency [2].  Although most of authors supposed that the cellular 
phone produced negative impact on traffic safety, the discrepancy from results in the past studies 
had showed up.  Consequently, the legislations for usage of cellular phone are not similar in 
different countries (e.g. only forbidden handheld phone or none of cellular phone allowed).  
However, why is not equal in those findings, is the difference as a result of types of conversation 
content.  The experiments in previous studies almost adopted artificial and unnatural 
conversation, such as mathematical tests and verbal test. The former was usually asked the driver 
for computations or recognition of presented digits, such as double-digit additions [3], [4].  
 18
participants were expected to go all out to engage in each condition, they were offered extra 
reward depending on their performance.  These conversations were highly expected to be more 
natural in form and content and show up its characteristic fully.  To reach the objective, the two 
conversing sides were guided how to conduct the three conversations and undertook practice 
session until obtaining the experimenter’s approval.  The dependent variables measured were 
the numbers of various driving performances, including driving speed, lane position, headway, 
and brake reaction time.  Brake reaction time was the time interval between activation of the led 
lamp and the onset of the brake pedal.  Once the conversation task completed, data collecting 
was also ended up.  According to the investigation of Rosenbloom (2006) [7], the average 
duration of a call was around 9 minutes.  Hence, the interval of conversation was set in 8 mins 
and varied as a function of the pacing of the conversation. 
The study examined the effects of cell phone conversation on driving using within-subjects 
design and the analyses based on the mean and standard deviations of the measures were 
calculated using standard statistical methods.  Repeated measures one-way ANOVA and 
pair-wise comparisons using Tukey simultaneous tests were used to analyze the performance of 
each dependent measure and examined the difference among the conversations. 
3. Results  
From the results of statistical analysis, the means of speed, headway, and brake reaction time and 
the standard deviation of lateral position were significantly different among the four 
conversations.  In other words, there was a significant effect caused by the naturalistic 
conversation on the driving performance.   
With regard to driving speed, the multiple comparison showed that each other of all have 
significant difference, the highest and the lowest speeds were in no conversation and negotiation 
respectively and the speed were higher in theme than that in elicitation.  Tukey’s test of standard 
deviation of lateral position showed that the difference between no conversation and theme was 
not statistically significant, but both elicitation and negotiation increased the variability of 
driver’s lane maintenance noticeably compared with no conversation.  In addition, there was a 
significant difference between theme and negotiation, but two differences, one is between theme 
and elicitation, the other is between elicitation and negotiation, were no statistically significant.  
The headway in theme was significant longer than that in no conversation and shorter than that in 
elicitation and negotiation, no significant difference between elicitation and negotiation.  In 
terms of the brake reaction time, the negotiation was significant longer than other conversation 
conditions.   Theme and elicitation had similar effects on brake reaction time.  It was clear that 
when the participants concentrated on driving task alone, their reaction time were significantly 
shorter than driving with the three conversations.  
 
 20
performances, we don’t agree that it is entirely safe to conduct this type conversation.  First, it is 
impossible for the driver to ensure that none of other types of conversations will occur in the 
whole conversation process.  The second explanation, the findings of this study are applicable 
for highway driving, it is lacking of evaluation on other traffic condition.    
The range of circumstances investigated in this study was limited and the more different traffic 
densities are needed to examine the driving behavior imposed by the naturalistic conversation 
such as urban traffic.  Therefore, the further research would assist generalizations to be made. 
 
Acknowledgments. This study is financially supported by a project from the National Science 
Council of Taiwan under contract No. NSC- 98-2218-E-231-003. 
References  
1. Beede, K.E., Kass, S.J.: Engrossed in conversation: The impact of cell  
phones on simulated driving performance. Accident Analysis and Prevention. 38, (2006) 
415-421. 
2. Haigney, D., Taylor, R.G., Westerman, S.J.: Concurrent mobile (cellular)  
phone use and driving performance: task demand characteristics and compensatory  
processes. Transportation Research Part F. 3, (2000) 113-121. 
3. Hancock, P.A., Lesch, M., Simmons, L.: The distraction effects of phone use  
during a crucial driving maneuver. Accident analysis and prevention. 35 (4), (2003)  
501–504. 
4. Patten, C.J.D., Kircher, A., Östlund, J., Nilsson, L.: Using mobile  
telephones: cognitive workload and attention resource allocation. Accident analysis  
and prevention. 36, (2004) 341–350. 
5. Strayer, D.L., Johnston, W.A.: Driven to distraction: Dualtask studies of  
simulated driving and conversing on a cellular phone. Psychological Science. 12,  
(2001) 462–466. 
6. Törnros, J., Bolling, A.: Mobile phone use – effects of conversation on mental  
workload and driving speed in rural and urban environments. Transportation Research Part F. 9, 
(2006) 298–306. 
7. Rosenbloom, T.: Driving performance while using cell phones: An observational  
study. Journal of Safety Research, 37, (2006) 207-212. 
 
 
  
圖一：HCI International 2009 會議參與識別證 
 
 
 
圖二：他人發表內容 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
