  2
Abstract 
 
Surgery simulation and automatic surgery 
management are the main medical applica-
tions in volume graphics. The neuromuscu-
loskeletal system includes bones, joints, the 
spine, the skull, the craniofacial bone, ears 
and the throat that are delicate, near the nerve 
or brain, and thus burring operations are 
herein carefully used to polish and carve an 
arbitrate shape of bone or to delete soft tis-
sues such as disc space substances. In this 
project, we develop the visual and haptic 
simulation functions for burs of various 
shapes or types of flutes. Then, we develop 
an algorithm to recognize if a structure is 
separate during burring simulations. We last 
integrate the simulation functions of recog-
nizing, repositioning and fusing separate 
structures with the burring simulation func-
tion to simulate various modularity of neu-
romusculoskeletal surgery.  
We also develop neuromusculoskeletal 
surgery planning methods by recognizing 
structures of the spine, joints, craniofacial 
bone, ear and nose bones, and deformity fea-
tures of spurs or tumors from the patient 
volume, and design the surgery to delete the 
deformities for achieving the surgery purpose. 
Moreover, to improve the effects of training 
residents and students, we also calculate the 
expected positions and volumes of structures, 
features and the nerve and brain and then 
compare in real-time with the ones obtained 
from every burring step to verify if the burr-
ing operation successes to obtain the ex-
pected structures and features and if the burr 
was near the dangerous areas, such as the 
nerve or brain.  
 
Keywords: volume graphics, haptic interac-
tion, burring surgery simulation, neuro-
musculoskeletal system 
 
 
二、前言 
計算機圖學在醫學臨床上的一個主要
應用:手術模擬可驗證或練習手術計畫及
用於訓練學生或臨床醫生。而觸感可提高
模擬系統的真實度可提高訓練效果。目前
提供觸感的手術模擬可分為兩類，一為軟
組織變形(如[Gibson 99] [Frank 01] [Frick 
01][Choi 03] [Chen 06][Basdogan 07])，另一
為硬組織(即骨頭)的去除([Hsieh 06] [Tsai 
07][Wang 05][Agus 03])。後者使用高速轉
動或擺動工具，如骨鑽(drill)骨鋸(saw)及骨
磨(bur)來去除骨頭，達到鑽洞(用 drill, bur)
切除出形狀(用 saw 或 bur)。bur 的用途很
廣，其去除量及抵抗力雖遠低骨鑽及骨
鋸，去除效率較不佳，但可用於骨頭鑽洞，
切出任意形狀及磨亮表面等多用途。此外
頭骨，脊椎，牙齒，耳鼻骨，關節等器官
組織精細，或者靠近神經、腦組織等重要
器官，也必須用骨磨小心切削。另外骨磨
也可用來切掉軟組織，如椎間盤、息肉等。
不似骨鑽及骨鋸只用來切削骨頭等硬組
織。 
而 bur 目前的模擬手法，依其原始資
料有很大的關係，如為掃瞄所得的表面資
料，通常在牙科的牙齒由於所得的多邊形
模型(polygon model)並無內部資料([Wang 
05] [Thomas 01])，當要計算刀具有無切削
物體時，必須有刀具與表面模型的碰撞測
試 (collision test) 及穿過物體表面深度
(depth)的計算，以用於計算切削力等。用
於形狀簡單的牙齒或許可行，但用於形狀
複雜的一般器官，這些計算對於需要 haptic 
real-time(1000HZ)為一大挑戰。而如為斷層
掃瞄(tomogaphic slice, 如 CT:電腦斷層掃
瞄或 MRI:核磁共振造影)所得的容積資料
(volume)結構，則由於容積素(voxel)代表實
  4
構，因為用骨磨磨除，較不會傷害到正常
脊椎結構；又如脊椎骨間的脊椎盤也常有
用骨磨磨除的情況；也如中耳(鼓室)由三
塊骨頭(聽小骨)組成可能因發炎等而黏在
ㄧ起，不能形成共鳴相對位置，必須用骨
磨做細磨分開，或者切除鼻內息肉或清除
外耳乳突等。當然一個完整的手術術式，
不只有骨磨手術的步驟，往往包括其他步
驟。例如，手術時仍需高效率而利用骨鋸
及骨鑽切削，或者將所鋸開或磨開的獨立
骨頭移除或移至其他位置。另外骨頭間、
或骨頭與植骨、或與人工關節的融合等。
雖然其他骨磨的研究也開始探討與其他手
術的整合(如用平面橫貫整個容積以切開
上下顎連接處)[Morris 06]，但由於資料結
構及配合演算法的未完備，並未能提供其
他手術步驟的真實手術般的模擬。 
對於這些骨磨手術以外其他手術的模
擬，我們的歷年來的國科會計畫成果，探
討及開發了骨骼肌肉系統(使用骨鋸及骨
鑽)手術及其他各項相關步驟的操作容積
模擬方法，包括了骨鋸掃開面的切割模
擬，骨鑽體積與骨頭的集合演算以模擬鑽
骨，獨立骨頭與人工關節零件移除、移動
及融合模擬，還有骨鋸及骨鑽切削時的觸
覺反應模擬等(如[Tsai 05][Hsieh 06][Tsai 
07])。因此本計畫“操作容積的骨骼肌肉
神經系統之具觸覺手術模擬，自動手術計
畫擬定及即時手術模擬檢驗＂，第一年
“骨磨手術為基礎的骨骼肌肉神經系統手
術模擬系統之研究＂，開發不同形狀與不
同刀刃分布的骨磨切削模擬，然後也開發
骨磨手術模擬中獨立解剖結構的辯識方
法，以整合之前所開發的骨鋸及骨鑽手術
模擬的資料結構及演算法，也完成獨立解
剖結構的操作，如獨立骨頭與人工關節零
件移除、移動及融合等模擬；以期能達成
骨骼肌肉神經系統各科別及各術式的手術
模擬功能的開發。而由於骨骼肌肉神經系
統手術往往牽涉到刀具不可碰觸到的神經
或腦組織等重要組織。計畫第二年“骨磨
手計術畫自動擬定及手術模擬即時檢驗之
研究＂，將探討手術模擬時自動檢驗手術
模擬成敗的研究，使系統能隨時檢驗使用
者在模擬骨磨手術時，所欲切出的骨頭形
狀是否有達到預期，或刀具是否有過於接
近神經等不可碰觸之區域。也可檢討原先
手術計畫的效能，例如計劃是否能切削出
適合骨頭形狀，或讓人工關節契合，或檢
出過於讓刀具接近神經或腦組織等危險區
域等的刀具路徑。本報告描述被核凖第一
年計畫成果。 
 
  
三、研究方法 
為達精細骨磨手術模擬視覺及觸覺反
應目的，本研究須發展下列方法： 
1. 發展各種刀具形狀骨磨切削模擬。 
我們距離階化(distance-level)容積素，將
各種組織表面表現成容積主軸平行線上
的點，而於每一觸感位置利用每一條主
軸平行線與刀具的交點做比較即可知刀
具是否有切割到組織，以知是否要更新
容積素距離階值或將組織容積素改成空
氣，以模擬骨磨刀具的切削。在上一年
度計畫“操作容積的即時觸覺及顯像反
應的骨磨手術模擬方法之研究＂中模擬
球形骨磨刀具的切削，然而實際骨骼肌
肉神經系統手術中骨磨刀具形狀多樣以
適合不同的用途，除球形外、尚有圓柱
(半徑可隨軸改變)、橢圓球形等等，或
是上述形狀混合。所以本計畫探討不同
形狀骨磨的每一觸感位置線與刀具的交
點以正確模擬切削的視覺及觸覺反應。
由於必須每一觸感位置(1000HZ)求交
點，刀具方程式不能複雜。我們利用一
系列線性轉換簡化刀具方程式使其不含
交叉積一次項以簡化計算。 
 
2. 用刀具上面的樣點來了解刀具的切削
  6
 
4. 以 Phantom 力回饋裝置及北醫附醫
bone bank 的骨頭測試演算法、各種 bur
形狀的力量計算模型 
以上方法必須嘗試於各種 bur 的刀具
形狀。最後將以前國科計劃所購置的
Phantom Desktop 力回饋裝置來實現，來產
生電腦的虛擬觸感，並與實際切削感覺是
否一致來驗證是否正確。我們切削台北醫
學大學骨科 bone bank 的骨頭實物切削來
驗證修改力量力矩模型。 
 
5. 配合台北醫學大學的實際臨床例測試
各項演算法、計算模型及手術模擬系統 
計劃共同主持人及協同研究人員所領
導的臨床醫生以實際臨床例測試安裝力回
饋裝置的手術模擬系統是否得即時的觸覺
及顯像反應，以修改各項演算法、計算模
型及手術模擬系統。由於使用骨鋸及骨鑽
手術的骨骼肌肉系統之手術模擬已經在之
前計畫被探討([Tsai 01][Hsieh 02][Tsai 
05][Hsieh 06][Tsai 07])，在此只討論包含骨
磨手術為基礎的骨骼肌肉神經系統模擬系
統之手術模擬，當然獨立骨頭與人工關節
零件移除、移動及融合等模擬也包括在
內，以構成一個完整術式的模擬。計劃共
同主持人謝銘勳 (台北醫學大學醫學系教
授 台北醫學大學附設醫院骨科(及創傷外
科)主任)而可提供脊椎的病例。協同研究
人員李飛鵬 (台北醫學大學醫學系教授 
台北醫學大學附設醫院耳鼻喉科主任)可
提供耳鼻手術病例。協同研究人員蔡豐州
(台北醫學大學附設醫院整型外科主任 博
士級資深講師) 可提供髗顏面的手術病例。 
並參與討論以判斷手術模擬結果的適當
性。就脊椎病例依部位而言有頸椎、胸椎
及腰椎，以術式而言，有椎間板切除、椎
體切除(每一節脊椎骨的部分或全部)，兩
椎體融合(切除掉椎間盤及磨平相對的骨
面後植入骨頭於磨掉的空間)，或切除掉脊
椎骨的部分後金屬板固定椎體等。這些術
式的骨頭切削都用骨磨，但也會包括解剖
結構辨識，移動或移除等其他步驟。耳鼻
喉科可應用的術式有：鼓室成形術，其術
式主要動作為使用骨磨切開耳朵後清除黏
在耳朵的中耳聽小骨頭並重新定位以復原
鼓室。髗顏面的手術病例有：頷整形。其
術式主要動作為前者用骨磨修飾髗顏面骨
形狀以達整形效果。 
 
 
四、結果與討論 
上述的研究方法的各項之演算法及計
算模型已完成。1. 開發發展各種刀具形狀
骨磨切削模擬之演算法。2. 開發不同刀刃
的骨磨刀具力量計算模型以計算切削力
量。3. 開發骨磨切削時即時辨識獨立組織
演算法，及獨立組織的移除或移動及融合
等模擬之演算法。而由 1, 2, 3 項成果，我
們也執行第 4 項之以 Phantom 力回饋裝置
及北醫附醫 bone bank 的骨頭測試各項演
算法、計算模型，與第 5 項與台北醫學大
學附設醫院的實際臨床例測試及手術模擬
系統。我們執行了脊椎病例之手術模擬，
部位而言有頸椎、胸椎及腰椎，以術式而
言，有椎間板切除、椎體切除，兩椎體融
合，切除掉脊椎骨以固定椎體等，會議論
文已出版[Tsai 09] [Tsai 09a] (附件一、
二)，期刊論文 review 中。同時也執行了耳
鼻喉科之應用：切開耳朵後清除黏在耳朵
的中耳聽小骨頭並重新定位以復原鼓室之
手術模擬。會議論文已出版[Tsai 09b] ，期
刊論文已被接受[Tsai 09c] (附件三) 。髗顏
面整形手術等病例之手術模擬會議論文已
出版[Tsai 09d]，期刊論文準備中。 
 
 
五、參考文獻 
 
[Agus 03] Agus, M., Giachetti, A., Gobbetti, 
E., Zanetti G. and Zorcolo, A., 2003, 
  8
S. and Stanford, C., 2001, “The design 
and testing of a force feedback dental si-
mulator”, Computer Methods and Pro-
grams in Biomedicine, Vol.64, 53-64.  
[Tsai 05] Tasi, M.D., and Hsieh, M.S., 2005, 
“Volume manipulations for simulating 
bone and joint surgery”, IEEE Transac-
tions on Information Technology in Bio-
medicine, Vol.9, No. 1, 139-149.  
[Tsai 07] Tasi, M.D., Hsieh, M.S. and Tsai, 
C.H., 2007, “Bone Drilling Haptic Inter-
action for Orthopedic Surgical Simula-
tor”, Computers in Biology and Medicine, 
Vol.37, No.12, pp.1709-1718.  
[Tsai 09] Tsai, M.D., Ho, Y.T. and M.S. 
Hsieh, 2009, “Accurate Visual and Hap-
tic Burring Surgery Simulation Based on 
a Volumetric Model”, in Proceedings of 
International Conference on Bioinfor-
matics and Biomedical Engineering IEEE 
EMBS press, June 13-15. 
[Tsai 09a] Tasi, M.D. and Hsieh, M.S.  
“Computer Based System for Simulating 
Spine Surgery”, in Proceedings of IEEE 
Symposium on Computer Based Medical 
Systems, 2009. 
[Tsai 09b] Tasi, M.D., Hsieh, M.S. and Lee, 
F.P., 2009, “An Ear Ossicle Surgery 
Simulator Based on Transversal CT 
slices”, Proc. The International Forum 
on Medical Imaging in Asia.  
[Tsai 09c] Hsieh, M.S., Lee, F.P. and Tasi, 
M.D., 2009, “A Virtual Reality Ear Ossi-
cle Surgery Simulator Using Three-di-
mensional Computer Tomography”, 
Journal of Medical and Biological Engi-
neering, accepted.  
[Tsai 09d] 蔡明達, 何鈺婷, 謝銘勳 and 蔡
豐洲,2009, “圓錐骨磨手術模擬於整形
外科的應用”, in Computer Graphics 
Workshop. 
[Wang 05] Wang, D., Zhang, Y., Wang, Y., 
Lee, Y.S., Lu, P. and Wang, Y., 2005, 
“Cutting on Triangle Mesh: Local Mod-
el-Based Haptic Display for Dental 
Preparation Surgery Simulation”, IEEE 
Transactions on Visualization and Com-
puter Graphics, Vol. 11, No. 6, 
pp.671-683.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   附件  一 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During simulations, every x, y or z axis-parallel line in the 
extent enclosing the bur is used to intersect with the bur. Two 
endpoints may be obtained to represent the tool extent on this 
axis-parallel line. This tool extent is used to compare with two 
types of tissue extents on the same line. A boundary tissue ex-
tent is defined as from the center of a tissue voxel to the tissue 
surface represented by a distance-level of this voxel. An inte-
rior tissue extent is between the centers of two tissue voxels. 
The round-offs of the two tool endpoints indicate which tissue 
extents should be compared with the tool extent, meanwhile the 
fractions of the endpoints are used to determine if the tool ex-
tent is outside, or overlaps part of, or covers the whole of the 
compared tissue extent. 
If a tool extent is outside all tissue extents, the bur is not 
cutting any tissue on this line (as y tissue extent of V). If the 
tool extent overlaps part of a boundary extent but not the voxel 
center, the bur cuts out this part to change the tissue surface. 
The endpoint on the overlapped part becomes the tissue vertex 
(as a on an x axis-parallel line passing the center of V). The 
fraction of this endpoint is then used to calculate the distance-
level using (1) to represent this new vertex. (Fig. 2 (a)).  
If the tool extent overlaps part of an interior extent and also 
the voxel center, a new tissue surface appears in this extent and 
this extent becomes a boundary extent. The endpoint on the 
overlapped part becomes the tissue vertex (as c of V and b of 
V1). This endpoint is set as cutting this type of tissue. If the tool 
extent overlaps a whole (V2) or part (V3) of a boundary extent 
and also the voxel center, this tissue voxel is set as null. A vox-
el center (V2) is nullified three times by the three respective sets 
of (x, y and z) axis-parallel lines. We change this voxel as null 
when processing the third set of lines. (Fig. 2 (b)) 
A tool extent may be included in a tissue extent in which 
the two endpoints are in-between the voxel center and the tis-
sue surface of a boundary extent or the two voxel centers of an 
interior extent (Fig. 2 (c)). The tissue extent is set unchanged 
but the two endpoints are still set as cutting this tissue to gener-
ate a repulsive force for feeling tissue burring. If the bur moves 
toward the tissue consecutively, a part or complete cut of this 
tissue extent occurs. A cutting counter for each set of axis-
parallel lines records the number of endpoints judged as cutting 
tissues in this set of lines.  
III. BURRING FORCE COMPUTATION 
The position (as A) of a divided surface element a ball-type 
bur is calculated as C- lZ + rX + rR(α) (Fig. 3). C indicates the 
bur center. l means the distance from C to c along the bur axis, 
i.e., the -Z-axis of the haptic device (Fig. 1). c indicates the 
center of the equally divided cross-section. r is the radius of 
 
Figure 2.  Volume manipulations. A boundary tissue extent: between one 
solid square (tissue voxel center) and one solid circle (tissue surface vertex). 
An interior tissue extent: between two tissue voxel centers.  
this cross-section. X, Y and Z indicate the vectors along the X-, 
Y- and Z-axes. R means a rotation matrix about the Z-axis. α 
indicates the angular position of the element respecting to the 
X-axis. A and the area dA are pre-computed before simulations 
for saving computation time. dA is calculated as r dα dl. dα 
indicates the equally divided arc for an element on the cross-
section. dl is the equally divided width along the axial direc-
tion.  
A force computation is implemented if any cutting counter 
of the three line sets is not 0. The element is then transformed 
into the volume coordinate to determine which endpoint this 
element is closest to. Although the endpoints from either set of 
the x, y and z axis-parallel lines can be used, the set with the 
largest cutting counter is used. The two (e.g., x and y) coordi-
nate components of a surface element are compared with the 
two (x and y) coordinates of lines of the compared (e.g., z ) set 
to determine the closest line. If the two endpoints of this line 
both cut the same tissue, this element is set as cutting this tis-
sue. If only one endpoint cuts some tissue or the two endpoints 
cut different tissues, differences of the third (e.g., z) coordinate 
component of the element with the same components of the 
two endpoints are compared to decide which endpoint (as p not 
q) near the surface element. (Fig. 3)  
A load on the cutting element is represented as four force 
components: tangential (Ftang), radial (Fradius), axial (Faxial) and  
trust (Ftrust) components as follows, 
Ftang (Fradius, Faxial or Ftrust) = ΔKh (Kr, Ka or Kt)  dA  frate. (2) 
The tangential component is set against the rotation, the radial 
component toward the bur axis and the axial component along 
the bur axis. Different from other tools such as drills or saws 
that are fed along the axis direction, the bur can be freely fed 
along any direction. Therefore, the trust component against the 
feeding direction is herein added. Every component is set as 
proportional to the tissue chip removal rate (dA frate). frate, the 
feed rate equals to the feed f dividing the haptic frequency 
(1000HZ). The coefficients, Kh, Kr, Ka and Kt means the force 
components are set as linearly proportional to the chip volume. 
These coefficients actually depend on many variables such as 
the cutting velocity (a multiplicand of the rotational speed with 
the radius at the divided element), the feed rate and the bur type 
but are herein determined empirically.Δdepends on what tis-
sue (cortical or cancellous bones, disc spaces, nasal polyp, etc.) 
the element cuts. As the following equations, the four force 
components are then transformed and summated into the forces 
along the haptic device axes, FX, FY and FZ to render. (Fig. 3) 
∑ ⋅−−= ))(sin(cos trusttangradius FFFFX Xvαα  (3) 
 
Figure 3.  Force computation. (a) Lateral view. (b) Top view 
x
y 
(a) (c) (b) 
V1 
V2 
b cV V3 V a 
(b)(a)
Feeding direction
A 
X
Ftrust Ftang
Y
C 
Fradius p 
q 
 
α r
Faxial
Z 
A C 
p q c l
2
Authorized licensed use limited to: Chung Yuan Christian University. Downloaded on September 28, 2009 at 03:22 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
International Journal of Machine Tools & Manufacture, vol. 44., pp. 
1413–1421, 2004. 
[8] M. D. Tsai, M. S. Hsieh and C. H. Tsai, “Bone drilling haptic interaction 
for orthopedic surgical simulator,” Computers in Biology and Medicine, 
vol. 37, pp. 1709–1718, Dec. 2007. 
 
                    
  
Figure 4.  Example spine images. Bones (white). Disc spaces (blue). Nerve (red). (a) fontal, (b) lateral and (c) top views. 
 
 
 
   
 
                               
Figure 5.  Simulation images of burring surgery. Zoom-in images from the C3∼C4 range enclosed by black lines shown in Fig. 4 (a).   
 Green burs indicate not in cutting status and red burs indicate in cutting status.  
 
                         
Figure 6.  Burring forces in gross cutting by a 5mm round cutting bur. A: the path that the bur moved from the right end to the left end of the C3-4 disc space.  
 B: the path that the bur drilled into the disc space toward the back. (a) Fx, (b) Fy, (c) Fz. 
 
                     
 
Figure 7.  Burring forces in fine cutting by a 3mm round polishing bur.(a) Fx, (b) Fy, (c) Fz. 
C3 
(b) (c) 
(d) (e) 
(a) 
(a) (b) (c) 
(f) 
C4 
( N ) 
  1.0 
0 
-1.0 
-2.0 
-3.0 
( N ) 
1.0 
0 
-1.0 
-2.0 
5 
4
3
2
1
0 
( N ) 
20(sec.) (a) (b) 20(sec.) 20(sec.) (c) 
0.8 
0.4 
0 
-0.4 
-0.8 
( N ) 
0.20 
0.10 
0 
-0.10 
-0.20 
( N ) ( N ) 
 
0.20 
0.15 
0.10 
0.05 
0 
 
10(sec.) (a) (b) 10(sec.) 10(sec.) (c) 
 
A A A B B B 
4
Authorized licensed use limited to: Chung Yuan Christian University. Downloaded on September 28, 2009 at 03:22 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Computer Based System for Simulating Spine Surgery  
Ming-Dar Tsai1*, Ming-Shium Hsieh2
1 Institute of Information and Computer Engineering, Chung Yuan Christian University  
2 Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, Taipei Medical University Hospital 
1tsai@ ice.cycu.edu.tw                                   2shiemin@tmu.edu.tw  
Abstract 
A computer based system described herein provides 
preoperative simulations to verify burring and 
morphological operations in spine surgery. An efficient 
bur-tissue intersection computation method is used to 
simulate tissue burring by diverse shapes of burs for 
various cutting procedures in spine surgery. A volume 
manipulation is then used to calculate burred changes 
on volume data, provide high-quality burred tissue 
surfaces and check if any structure separate from the 
spine. Morphological simulations such as repositions, 
deletions and fusions can be implemented on the 
separate structures for spine decompression and 
morphology correction. The coated surface or flutes on 
a bur are pre-divided into small elements in which a 
tissue removal force on each element can be fast 
summated to obtain the burring force by pre-
determined transformation matrices. Examples of 
typical spine surgery modalities illustrate the 
effectiveness of the proposed methods and simulator.  
1. Introduction 
Surgery simulators are considered as effective 
training and rehearsing tools because a single 
procedure or a specific modality on a virtual patient 
can be repeatedly implemented without any extra cost 
by simulations. Computer based surgery simulators 
with visuohaptic (about 1/30HZ for visual and 
1/1000HZ for haptic) responses have been developed 
for specific surgery, such as knee arthroscopy [1] and 
wrist arthroscopy [2]. Spine surgery, involving cutting 
and morphological operations on the critical spine, are 
usually implemented by experienced surgeons. In 
cutting operations, a bur attached micro (pen-like) 
handpiece is used to delicately cut, polish or drill holes 
on a vertebral bone, dissect disc substance or tumor 
and implement tissue curettage and debridement [3-4]. 
In morphological operations, bones or bone-grafts are 
repositioned, deleted, separated or fused to decompress, 
stabilize or correct morphology of the spine [5-6].
CT or MRI slices are usually used to evaluate the 
spine morphology and confirm positions and shapes of 
abnormal tissues. A set of the slices constitutes a 
volume with regularly partitioned voxels. Previous 
works decreased the density of every bone voxel 
overlapped with the bur to represent bone erosion [7-8]. 
Meanwhile, our previous work represented precise 
tissue surfaces and burred changes around a voxel by 
multiple distance-levels assigned for the voxel [9]. 
These studies only realize simulations for spherical 
burs because ball positions and intersections are easily 
calculated. Our previous work also checks if a bone is 
separate from saw-swept cutting surfaces on bones and 
implements morphological simulations on separate 
bones [10].  
Spine surgery involves burs of various shapes and 
flutes for specific cutting procedures [11]. This paper 
proposes a volume manipulation computer system that 
provides accurate visuohaptic simulations for the 
diverse burs used. The system also detects the 
structures separate from the spine during the burring 
simulations to implement morphological simulations 
on the separate structures. With the burring and 
morphological functions, a surgeon can simulate three 
main types of spine surgery: spine cord or root 
decompression by vertebral bones or disc substances; 
abnormal tissue removals such as tumor resection, 
debridement and curettage; and spine morphology 
correction for dislocation, sublaxation, scoliosis and 
kypolosis [12]. 
978-1-4244-4878-4/09/$25.00 ©2009 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: Chung Yuan Christian University. Downloaded on September 28, 2009 at 03:24 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
rl
x
y
z
1I
2I
JI
1r
h
x
y
z
2r
1I
2I
I
(C) 
V
1l
2l
b
3l U
cd
e g
No cross products and first-order terms appearing in 
the bur surface equations under the bur coordinate 
system (Figure 2(B)), thus takes less computation time. 
A bur surface can be one of the three basic quadric 
types: ellipsoid, cone and parabolic cylinder [11]. The 
ellipsoid (Figure 3(A)) can represent the burs of 
rounds, eggs and ovals. The cone (Figure 3(B)) can 
represent a drum, router, drill, disc, cone or inverted 
cone. The parabolic cylinder (Figure 3(C)) can be used 
to represent the head of an acorn bur. Two or none 
intersections can be solved from the parameter 
equation of an axis-parallel line with a bur quadric 
equation. However, a quadric may be bounded by one 
or two transversal planes. An intersection on the 
quadric may become on the bounding plane (as I in 
Figure 3) or out of the bounding plane (as J). The 
intersection on the bounding plane can be linearly 
interpolated by the z coordinates of the intersections 
(as I1 and I2) on the quadric with the z coordinate of the 
bounding plane. 
A bur surface can be consisted by two or more 
quadrics. For examples, a barrel can be represented by 
a combination of two rounds (ellipsoid) with a cylinder 
(a cone). An acorn bur is by a parabolic cylinder 
associated with a cylinder. A neuro bur is an ellipsoid 
with a cylinder. A cylinder and a cone can constitute a 
type of drills. Not all the quadrics constituting a bur are 
solved simultaneously to determine at most two 
intersections with an axis-parallel line. The quadric 
with the largest extent along the z axis is first used to 
calculate the intersections.  If none or only one 
intersection is obtained from the calculation with the 
first quadric, the calculations with the other quadrics 
are then implemented for the remaining intersections. 
1
222
=¸¸¹
·
¨¨©
§
+¸¸¹
·
¨¨©
§
+¸¸¹
·
¨¨©
§
cba r
z
r
y
r
x ( )[ ] 221222 -hrrzryx +=+ l
z
r
y
r
x
=+
¹¸
·
©¨
§
¹¸
·
©¨
§
22
Figure 3. Quadric surfaces of burs 
2.3 Volume manipulation for burring simulations 
An intersection of the bur with an axis-parallel line 
(as a in Figure 4(A)) becomes the new tissue vertex if 
located between the center of a tissue voxel and the 
tissue vertex represented by the voxel distance-level. 
This distance-level is renewed to represent this new 
tissue vertex [9]. If the intersection (as b in Figure 
4(A)) is located between two tissue voxel center (U
and V), a voxel (U) is nullified. The face-flags of this 
voxel indicating the faces (l1, l2 and l3) neighboring 
with other tissue voxels are therefore changed as 
boundary.  Meanwhile, the original boundary face (l0)
of this nullified voxel is no longer a boundary. 
 A separation check manipulates the face-flags of 
nullified voxels to judge if the burred structure is 
separate. All boundary faces of a structure are 
connected to be closed [10]. A burred structure is 
separate if some boundary faces cannot connect with 
the other boundary faces of the structure. However, it 
is time-consuming to check if all boundary faces are 
connected. Herein, only boundary faces of the burred 
voxels are checked.  
Our method records four edges of every new 
boundary face. For each recorded edge, two or one 
burred boundary faces sharing this edge are recorded. 
The boundary face is not recorded if it is an original 
boundary (not generated by burring). For example, 
when U is nullified, only one boundary face l1 (or l3)
are recorded at the edge c (or g). The other boundary 
face at the edge c (or g) is an original one and thus not 
recorded. Meanwhile, two faces (l1 and l2) are recorded 
at the edge d, and l2 and l3 are recorded at the edge e.
Figure 4. Volume manipulation: burring simulation 
and separation check. Bold lines: boundary faces. 
0l
a
U
ar br
cr
x
y
z
J
2II
1I
(A) (B) 
V
1l
2l
4l
5l
6l
g
h i
e
cd 1S
2SW 7
l
g
h i
e
cd
j
1l
2l
6l
(A) (B) 
(C) (D) 
5l
Authorized licensed use limited to: Chung Yuan Christian University. Downloaded on September 28, 2009 at 03:24 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
ranges of the discectomy and osteotomy. A 5mm round 
cutting bur was then used for gross cutting by a series 
of zigzag paths (from the left end to the right end or 
from the right to the left end of the disc space) as 
shown in Figure 6(C), 6(D). These paths deleted out 
most of the C3-4 disc space substance and then cut 
about 3mm height of bones out from C3 and C4 end 
plates, respectively. Figure 6(E) also shows the gross 
cutting result in which the C3-4 disc substance has 
almost been deleted and the C3 and C4 end plates have 
been cut. Then, a fluted cone was used for gross 
cutting the two sides of the C3-4 space (Figure 6(E), 
6(F)), because the cone type of burs easily curve out 
shapes of cylindrical bores [12].   
Finally, a 3mm round polishing bur for fine cutting 
was used to remove disc space substance that was 
difficultly deleted by the large bur, and to make 
smooth and horizontal end plates (Figure 6(G), 6(H), 
6(I)). Although the depth immersing into the bone is 
very small during polishing the end plates, our method 
can still detect such small amount of tissue burring to 
provide fine burring feeling. The polishing simulations 
showed our system can delicately represent little 
changes on tissue surfaces to obtain accurate geometric 
simulations. Therefore, fine burring to obtain smooth 
and horizontal surfaces of end plates for easily bone-
grafting can be trained through the simulations. Haptic 
responses about the hole drilling and round cutting or 
polishing burs resembles to our previous results [9, 15] 
in which fine feeling about burring forces  was clearly 
demonstrated even under small burs and feeds and 
complex tissue geometry. Figure 6(J) demonstrates the 
simulations for bone-grafting in which a smooth 
cuboid graft bone has been inserted inside the C3-4 
space. The size and position of the bone graft can be 
said comfortable through the verification of the 
simulations.  
In the tumor resection example, a patient, diagnosed 
as the tuberculosis spine of granuloma at T6-7 with 
infected T6-7 disc substances and T6, T7 and T8 
vertebral bones, was implemented a tumor resection, a 
disectomy of the T6-7 disc space substance, an 
osteotomy of the T6, T7 and T8 and bone grafting for 
the T6 ~ T8 space, successively.  Figure 7 shows the 
3D images (all frontal views except a lateral view in 
Figure 7(F)) of several simulation results from a set of 
55 transversal CT slices that were interpolated as 90 
slices with a constant 2mm interval. The tumor shown 
in Figure 7(A) was first removed by a removal 
simulation and a 5mm round cutting bur appeared for 
gross-cutting the T6-7 disc space substance (Figure 
7(B)) and the T6 and T8 endplates (Figure 7(C)). The 
infected T6 and T8 vertebral bones can be efficiently 
cut. Then, a 3mm round polishing bur was used for 
fine cutting to make smooth and horizontal T6 and T8 
endplates (Figure 7(D)), smooth and vertical two sides 
of the T6 ~ T8 space. Smooth surfaces were obtained 
by the polishing bur (Figure 7(E)). Finally, a 2mm 
neuro bur (a gray tool, constituted by a hemisphere 
with a cylinder) with fine haptic and geometric 
responses was used to delete the remaining bones near 
the nerve (Figure 7(E)). Figure 7(F) shows the bone 
grafting result in which the position and shape of the 
chosen bone graft was observed as suitable. Figure 
7(F) also demonstrates the above procedures can delete 
the tumor, provide smooth bone endplates and thus 
successfully implant a bone graft. 
In the lumbar spine decompression example, a 
partial laminectomy was implemented for the lumbar 
spine decompression in which the L4 spinal process 
should be repositioned outward and the inferior L3 
spinal process should be cut out. Figure 8 (all posterior 
views) shows the 3D images of several simulation 
results from a set of 34 transversal CT slices that were 
interpolated to 75 slices with a constant 2mm interval. 
Figure 8(A) shows a 2mm cylindrical router (small 
yellow) was routing the left side of the L4 spinal 
process in which a groove has already appeared by the 
last routing procedure. Totally, three routing operations 
were implemented to separate one side of the L4 spinal 
process. Figure 8(B) shows the L4 spinal process was 
recognized as separate and repositioned after routing 
the two sides of the process. This router was cutting 
the L3 spinal process.  Figure 8(C) shows the inferior 
L3 spinal process was recognized as separate and 
removed. The L4 spinal process was repositioned back 
to stabilize the spine. A cylindrical drill (small yellow) 
was drilling several holes on the separate structure and 
the spine for following wire-fixing. Because the 
different setting of the force components on the flutes, 
the drill was guided to feed along the tool axis 
direction for drilling holes. Meanwhile, the router was 
guided to feed the directions perpendicular to the axis 
for routing grooves. 
In the lumbar spinal morphology correction 
example, 34 transversal CT slices from T11 to L4 were 
interpolated in 100 slices with a constant 2mm interval. 
Figure 9(A) shows a serious compression on L2, 
especially the anterior column that brings kyphosis and 
scoliosis. Figure 9(A) also shows the holes for 
inserting posterior lateral pedicle screws for fracture 
reduction and posterior fusion were being drilled by a 
small drill (yellow).  Figure 9(B) shows these holes 
were screwed to fix a rod for fracture reduction and 
posterior fusion. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: Chung Yuan Christian University. Downloaded on September 28, 2009 at 03:24 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
(B) 
(C)
(D)
(E) 
(F)
Figure 7. Simulations for thoracic tumor resection. 
Bone or bone graft (gray), nerve (red), tumor 
(green), disc substance (blue), cutting bur (yellow). 
(A) 
(B) 
(C) 
Figure 8. Simulations for partial laminectomy.
(A) 
Authorized licensed use limited to: Chung Yuan Christian University. Downloaded on September 28, 2009 at 03:24 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   附件  三 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 - 1- 
A Virtual Reality Ear Ossicle Surgery Simulator Using Three-dimensional 
Computer Tomography 
Ming-Shium Hsieh1,  Fei-Peng Lee2,  Ming-Dar Tsai3*  
 
1 School of Medicine, Taipei Medical University,  
Department of Orthopedics Research Center, Taipei Medical University Hospital 
 
2 Department of Otolaryngology, Taipei Medical University Hospital 
 
3 Institute of Information and Computer Engineering, Chung Yuan Christian University 
 
Running title: Ear ossicle surgery simulator 
 
1  Ming-Shium Hsieh    Professor and Chairman,  
School of Medicine, Taipei Medical University 
Department of Orthopedics Research Center, Taipei Medical University Hospital 
ADDRESS: 252, Wu Hsing Street, 11031 Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C 
TEL: (+886) 2-2737-2181(3118)  FAX: (+886) 2-2737-5618    E-MAIL: 
shiemin@tmu.edu.tw 
 
2  Fei-Peng Lee    Professor and Superintendent,  
Department of Otolaryngology, Taipei Medical University Hospital 
ADDRESS: 252, Wu Hsing Street, 11031 Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C 
TEL: (+886) 2-2737-2181     E-MAIL: fplee@tmu.edu.tw 
 
3* Ming-Dar Tsai   Professor, 
Institute of Information and Computer Engineering, Chung Yuan Christian University  
ADDRESS: Chung Li, 32023 Taiwan, R.O.C. 
TEL: (+886) 3-265-4718    FAX: (+886) 3-265-4799     E-MAIL: tsai@ ice.cycu.edu.tw 
 
Reprint requests and correspondence to: 
*Ming-Dar Tsai    Professor, 
Institute of Information and Computer Engineering, Chung Yuan Christian University  
ADDRESS: Chung Li, 32023 Taiwan, R.O.C.  
TEL: (+886) 3-265-4718  FAX: (+886) 3-265-4799   E-MAIL: 
tsai@ice.cycu.edu.tw 
 - 3- 
1. Introduction 
Surgery for recovering functions of middle ear ossicles (malleus, incus and stapes) 
through bone ossicular replacements, alignment or cleaning are advanced surgical 
procedures for treating conductive hearing loss. However, tiny sizes of these ossicles 
bring high surgery fates [1-5]. The X-ray based cephalogram is a standard procedure to 
evaluate geometry of the middle ear (tympanic) cavity and the inside ear ossicles, 
diagnose diseases and manage surgery. However, projection errors occur in using 
X-rays [6] that cannot provide correct spatial relations among the ear ossicles and with 
the temporal bone to make correct surgical plans. Meanwhile, CT slices can provide 
interior information and avoid projection errors, thus are considered as an excellent 
way to evaluate the tiny ear ossicles [7-10]. Three-dimensional reconstruction from a 
volume constituted by CT slices can be used to visualize pathologies of the ear ossicles 
[11] or simulate cutting operations on the 3D temporal bone [12,13].  
 However, the ear ossicles are too small to be distinguished from the neighboring 
temporal bone for visualization and then surgical simulation. This paper therefore 
proposes an automatic segmentation method to recognize the ear ossicles in the 
tympanic cavity on transversal CT slices. Using segmented ossicular areas on the 2D 
CT slices, 3D ear ossicles can be highlighted from the temporal bone during the volume 
reconstruction. A surgeon can then easily zoom in the tympanic cavity to simulate 
opening the tympanic cavity, polishing out tissue sclerosis on the ear ossicles and 
repositioning to align these ossicles. This paper also develops a volume based 
simulation method that uses real-time visual and haptic burring simulation functions to 
open the tympanic cavity and polish the ear ossicles, checks if the ossicles are separate 
or separated from the temporal bone and uses reposition functions to align ossicles. In 
 - 5- 
gray-level values under the bone threshold) pixels form a cavity range, such as the 
range between ai and bi, and between ci and di, respectively. Neighboring two 
cavity ranges (as the ranges ai-bi and ci-di) can be considered as in the same cavity 
(as ai-di) with an inside bone range (as bi-ci). The ranges that are possible to be a 
tympanic cavity and inside ossicles are pre-defined. Too Large or small ranges of 
cavities and inside bones are excluded.  
3. Search all pixels inside each cavity by using the middle point (as mi as shown in Fig. 
2(B)) of the cavity range (as ai and di) on a horizontal line as a seed to flood the 
cavity [14]. A seed and flood algorithm can traverse all pixels inside a closed cavity 
and consumes only little time because of the small area of the cavity. Multiple 
middle points may be obtained from continuous horizontal lines that traverse the 
same cavity. A cavity constituted by the horizontal lines including no inside bone 
ranges are then not processed (as the cavity constituted by the pairs of gi and hi 
shown in Fig. 2(A)). 
4. Determine the center (as C in Fig. 2(C)) of the cavity by averaging the position of 
all the pixels inside this cavity and use a vector starting from C to find the furthest 
inside bone range (as b2-c2 in Fig. 2(C)) from the continuous scanlines representing 
inside bones in the cavity. The furthest range of inside bones in a cavity is then 
calculated using the distance of the cavity center (C) to every endpoint (e.g., b2 or c2) 
of each inside bone range. The range with the endpoint of the largest distance to the 
center is the furthest range. The pixels on the furthest range are set as boundary 
pixels (e.g., pixels between b2 and c2) of the inside bones that is used to distinguish 
the inside bones with the cavity. For example, ear ossicles if connecting with the 
cavity wall by a bone bar can be distinguished by this procedure. 
 - 7- 
bone voxels are changed to indicate these face are boundary as illustrated in Fig. 3(B).  
The burred ossicle is separated from other ossicles or the temporal bone if the bur 
traverses from immersing into bone voxels and then leaving into a null voxel (as V in 
Fig. 3(C)). Then, a seed is assigned to each side of the last voxel (as W). The separate 
ossicles can be then manipulated (deleted or repositioned) independently by the two 
seeds (as S1 and S2). 
This simulator can manipulate (delete or reposition) a separate bone through a fast 
3D seed and flood algorithm [14]. A deletion function traverses to nullify all voxels of 
the separate bone (set the tissue type of traversed voxels as null). Meanwhile, a 
reposition function traverses to store all voxels of the separate bone in a stack, deletes 
the bone and pops the stored data into the voxels of the new position in the reverse 
order as they were stacked [16].  The system uses the marching cubes method to 
reconstruct triangulated bone surfaces [17]. However, the reconstruction for bone 
surfaces in a whole volume consumes time to be difficultly real-time. Therefore, the 
system uses a dynamical cube data structure to record reconstructed bone triangles 
inside every voxel.  By manipulating the cube data structure, 3D reconstruction can be 
implemented not for the whole volume but only for the operated (burred) voxels to 
achieve real-time visual responses [18]. This 3D reconstruction method can reconstruct 
simultaneously surfaces of different tissues or structures (the temporal bone or ossicles) 
to assign these tissues or structures with different colors. Therefore, the recognized 
ossicles can be highlighted by being assigned a different color from other bones. 
 
3. Implementation 
Currently, our prototype system is implemented on a general PC with an IntelCore 2 
 - 9- 
thus not processed.  
The segmentation result indicates one inside bone was recognized in the tympanic 
cavity. The 2D inside bones in the cavity A shown in Fig. 5(A) ~ Fig. 5(G) construct a 
continuous 3D bone including the malleus and incus that can be used for visualization 
and surgery simulation. However, the inside bone that was not recognized as shown in 
Fig. 5(H) because of in an open canal is actually a part of the malleus and was also 
reconstructed and simulated together with the remaining part of the malleus as shown 
in Fig.6 and Fig.7. Meanwhile, the stapes was too small to be in the predefined inside 
bone range thus cannot be recognized. The inside bones recognized in another cavity 
cannot not be observed from the auricular canal, therefore will not confuse the system 
user to observe the ossicles even these bones were also highlighted. 
Fig. 6 shows the 3D images reconstructed from the volume before surgery 
simulations and after the open of the temporal bone. Fig. 6(A) and Fig. 6(B) show 3D 
images before surgery simulations. The tiny ear ossicles in Fig. 6(A) were highlighted 
to lead the surgeon to zoom in to an optimal perspective as shown in Fig. 6(B) for 
visualizing and simulating the ear ossicle surgery. Fig. 6(C) and Fig. 6(D) show a 
0.6mm round cutting bur was used to cut the temporal bone for opening the tympanic 
cavity. After the open, the 3D ossicles and the pathology of a bone bar fixating the 
incus can be clearly observed.  
Fig. 7 shows a 0.4mm round polishing bur was used to cut the bone bar for 
separating the ossicles from the tympanic cavity wall and polishing the ossicles to 
delete sclerosis. Fig. 7(A) and Fig. 7(B) show the bone bar has been cut to separate the 
ossicles from the tympanic cavity wall. This separation check lets the surgeon know if 
the malleus and incus can be separated from the temporal bone during the burring 
 - 11-  
malleus and incus in the two cases are similar. That indicates the 3D reconstruction 
(marching cubes method) can generate continuous ossicle surfaces by the CT slices 
with the ossicles segmented (highlighted as blue) or not (gray). Meanwhile, a bone bar 
from the temporal to fixate the incus as the first case was not observed in this case. 
 
4. Discussion 
In this study, we developed a method that automatically segment tiny ear ossicles on 
transversal CT slices and then highlight the 3D ossicles from the temporal bone. The 
surgeon can visualize the shape of the ossicles and the spatial relations between the 
ossicles with the temporal bone to assist diagnosing. Through the ossicle separation 
determination function together with the simulation functions reported in our previous 
works, clinicians can implement simulations of cavity opening, and ossicle separating, 
polishing and repositioning. Using the simulator, the clinicians can manage and 
rehearse a surgery plan for any specific ear ossicle disease.  
The segmentation method was developed to segment the bones inside the cavities in 
the ROI including an ear. The tympanic cavity with inside ossicles can be segmented; 
however, some inner cavities with inside bones may be segmented simultaneously. On 
a 3D virtual skull, these cavities and inside bones are occluded and do not reveal as the 
highlighted ossicles. The outmost auricular canal includes no inside bones; therefore, 
the highlighted ossicles may be partially occluded by the auricular canal wall but can 
still be observed by a suitable perspective.   
Our system can provide realistic 3D images for volume data using the marching 
cubes method and real-time visual responses through a dynamic cube data structure 
[18]. This cube data structure can assign different colors for different types of bone 
 - 13-  
Fig. 8(A) and Fig. 9. These artifact problems can be solved by using smaller pitches to 
obtain smaller slice intervals and converting the DICOM data into raw data with finer 
resolutions (e.g., 512×512). However, real-time (1000HZ haptic and 20HZ visual 
responses) burring simulations become difficult to be achieved under current PC 
platforms because such resolutions bring too many voxels. Therefore, the future work 
includes discussion of using more advanced PC hardware to achieve real-time 
simulations under sufficient fine slice intervals and resolutions.   
A typical patient of the ear ossicle pathology was used as the example. This 
pathology demonstrated a bone bar from the tympanic cavity wall fixating the ossicles 
and sclerosis on the ossicles. The burring functions were used to open the tympanic 
cavity, cut the bone bar to separate and polish the ossicles. These burring simulations 
resembled the real procedures [20]. In addition, the ossicles were seldom repositioned 
outside the tympanic cavity but usually burred and aligned inside the cavity [20]. 
Although the ossicles were repositioned outside in our simulation example for easy 
observation and operation, surgeons can also use the system functions to operate the 
ossicles directly inside the tympanic cavity. Meanwhile, patents with different ear 
ossicle or middle ear pathology such as ossicle absence, deformity, disruption and 
erosion should be our future work to test if different ear ossicle pathology can be 
observed through our segmentation and volume visualization methods. Moreover, 
simulations for the procedures of different ear ossicle surgery such as ossicular chain 
reconstruction or ossicular replacement should also be discussed in our future work. 
 
5. Conclusion 
The 3D geometry visualization of tiny middle ear ossicles is important in deciding the 
 - 15-  
2. P. S. Mundarda and H. G. Jaiswal, “A method for ossicular reconstruction with 
tragal cartilage autografts”, Laryngoscope, 99(9): 955-962, 1989. 
3. A. G. Kerr and G. D. L. Smyth, “The fate of transplated ossicles”, J. Laryngol. 
Otolaryngol., 85: 337-347, 1971. 
4. S. B. Ogale, S. Dutt, S. Thakur, et al, “The styloid process in ossicular chain 
reconstruction- long term analysis, J. Laryngol. Otolaryngol., 108: 111-112,1994. 
5. E. Stenbach and A. Pusalkae, “Long term histological fate of cartilage in ossicular 
reconstruction, J. Laryngol.”, 114: 1252-1255, 1981. 
6. B. Baumrind, F. Moffit and S. Curry, “The geometry of three-dimensional 
measurement from paired coplanar X-Ray images”, Am. J. Orthod., 84: 313-326, 
1983. 
7. F. Veillon, S. Riehm, M. N. Roedlich, P. Meriot, E. Blonde E and J. Tongio, 
“Imaging of middle ear pathology”, Semin. Roentgenol., 35: 2-11, 2000. 
8. K. Urano, K. Nkayama, H. Miyashita, M. Isono, Y. Hijii and Murata K, 
“Evaluation of reconstructed 3-D images of the middle ear using multi-slice scan 
CT”, International Congress Series, 1240: 487-1490, 2003. 
9. Y. Kurosaki, Y. O. Tanaka and Y. Itai, “Malleus bar as a rare cause of congenital 
malleus fixation: CT demonstration”, Am. J. Neuroradiol., 19: 1229-1230, 1998. 
10. R. Maroldi, D. Farina, L. Palvarini, A. Marconi, E. Gadola, K. Menni and B. 
Battaglia, “Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging of pathologic 
conditions of the middle ear”, European J. Radio., 40: 78-93, 2001. 
11. T. Nakasato, M. Sasaki, S. Ehara, Y. Tamakawa, et al,  “Virtual CT endoscopy of 
ossicles in the middle ear”, J. Clinical Imaging, 25: 171-177, 2001. 
12. D. Morris, C. Sewell, F. Barbagli, N. H. Blevins and S. Girod, “Visuohaptic 
 -17-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Determination of two ROIs including the two tympanic cavities on a transversal slice. 
 Bold line: a transversal slice.  
(A) Anteroposterior view.  (B) Horizontal view. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                           ( C)    
 
 
 
 
   ( A )                                                                                                      ( B )                                                ( D )         
 
Figure 2. Image matching of middle ear ossicles in a ROI of a transversal slice. 
(A)  Intersections of horizontal scanlines with boundaries of the tympanic cavity and ear ossicles. 
(B) Determination of the tympanic cavity by the seed and flood algorithm. 
(C) Determination of the boundary pixels between the tympanic cavity wall and ossicles 
(D) Determination of separate ossicles by the seed and flood algorithm. 
(A) (B) 
lp  
ht  
 
ht  
rp  
hs
app
apt
aps
2a 2d
3a
4a
3d
4d3m
2m
1m
2b
3b
4b
2c
3c
4c
2n
3n
4n
2a
3a
4a
5e
1e
2b
3b
4b
2c
3c
5f
2d
3d
4d
1f
6e 6f 6g 6h
4c C
2b 2c
 -19-
                 
             
                 
 
Figure 5.  Ossicle segmentation  result for the patient with a middle ear disease (see text) 
  Gray area: bones. Blue area: segmented bones inside a closed cavity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                        
Figure  6. Opening of the tympanic wall to reveal ear ossicles with a bone bar from the tympanic cavity to the incus. 
Gray area: bones. Blue areas: highlighted ear ossicles. 
(A) Lateral view of the temporal bone in which tiny but highlighted ossicles partially appeared. 
(B) Zooming in to observe the ossicles and neighboring bones.  
(C) Beginning of opening the tympanic cavity wall to reveal the ossicles.  
(D) End of opening the tympanic cavity wall. 
(A) (B) 
(C) (D) 
(A) (B) (C) (D) 
(E) (F) (G) (H) 
A A 
B 
A 
B 
A 
B 
A 
B 
A 
B 
A 
B 
A B 
B 
B 
