 Design a d fabrication 
 
The basic elements of the pressure sensor consist of a gas load chamber and a silicon 
membrane diaphragm. The cross view of the pressure sensor with dimen ions is ho n in 
Fig.1. 
The piezoelectric element is an actuator for this device, which generates the resonant 
frequency of the silicon thin film. When the gas load chamber is loaded with gas, the 
resonant frequency of the device is changed. The working theory as shown as f mula 2-1. 
Where w is Uniform load per unit area including own weight. Kn is tabulated for various 
ratios of silicon thin film long and short edge. D is the plate constant and the others are 
Young?s modulus E, Poisson?s rati  v andthickness t. 
 
 
Fig.1 Schematic drawings of the supply and sens r modes of a resonance-shift pressure 
sensor 
 
42
nk Dgf
wap
=      ( formula 2-1 ) 
 
 
The pressure sensor consists of three parts: silicon, PMMA , and PZT in film. Th
silicon etching process was used to create the air load chamber of th  sensor. The 
fabrication procedure of the pressure sensor is described in Fig.2. 
 
PMMA 
PZT thin film Silicon thin film 
Input pressure versus liquid flow 
finished pressure sensor with the size of 15 mm by 15 mm. 
 
 
Fig.4 Scheme of finished pressure sensor 
 
Experiments and results 
 
The experimental setup is schematically shown in Fig.5 The dynamic signal analyzer 
(STS model SR785), power amplifier (Piezotron cs, PCB790), digital oscilloscope, Liquid 
flow supply system(KD syring  pump), and fiber-optical me surement system (MTI 
Instruments, MTI 2000) were used to carry out the pressure sensor performance tests. 
 
 
Fig.5 Experimental setup 
 
   The first experiment measured th  PZT thin film displacement on different drivi g
Power amplifier Dynamic Signal Analyzer   Fiber-Optical Me surement 
System  
Pressure Sensor 
KD pump 
 
Fig.7 Frequency response test of pressure sensor 
 
Table.1 FEMLAB model analysis result compare to the experimental result 
 
No. of resonant mode 
Simulation result 
(KHz) 
Experimental result 
(KHz) 
E ror 
(%) 
1 35.944 33.3 9.2 
2 73.241 66.4 9.1 
3 73.274 66.75 9.1 
4 107.915 100.1 9.3 
 
   A liquid flow supply system KD pump was used to change our chamber pressure. 
The frequency of the device at the fundamental mode is approximately proportional to 
gas pressure shown in Fig.8 In present test, the range of liquid flow was between 0 ?l 
/minute and 160?l /minute . According to the experimental results, the sensitivity of 
the pressure sensor was 60 Hz per 10?l /minute liquid flow. 
The sensitivity of this pressure include some effects, like silicon thin film 
thickness easier decrease sensor sensitivity, chamber scale and leading wire also can 
be effect on sensor works[9]. If that effect can be improvement in pressure sensor 
fabrication, the sensor sensitivity will be increase.  
 
