Abstract
A bi-enzyme process for the synthesis of L-homophenylalanine from racemic
N-carbamoyl-D,L-homophenylalanine with immobilized N-acylamino acid racemase (racemase)
and immobilized N-carbamoyl-L-amino acid amidohydrolase (L-N-carbamoylase) was
demonstrated in this study. Upon covalent immobilization on Eupergit C, the operational pH
range and temperature range were markedly broadened. The broadening of the range of operation
pH bridges the gap between the optimal reaction pHs of the two free enzymes and thus makes
possible the utilization of both enzymes in a single reactor. Under optimal conditions, the
immobilized racemase and the immobilized L-N-carbamoylase exhibited a specific activity of
0.79 U/mg protein and 2.91 U/mg protein, respectively. The immobilized racemase had a lower
activity retention but a significantly higher operation stability compared to the immobilized
L-N-carbamoylase. The racemization activity of the immobilized racemase remained essentially
unchanged after 40 cycles; the hydrolysis activity of the immobilized L-N-carbamoylase dropped
by 40% after 14 cycles. In batch operation, quantitative conversion of
N-carbamoyl-D-homophenylalanine to L-HPA with immobilized enzymes was achieved.
However, the low stability of the immobilized L-N-carbamoylase complicated the development of
repeated-batch or continuous processes. In continuous process, a stoichiometric excess of
L-N-carbamoylase was used to extend the operation time of the system.
Keywords: L-homophenylalanine, racemase, carbamoylase, immobilization
N-acylamino acids of industrial significance have been reported [21-23]. Coupling the enzymatic
activities of L-aminoacylase and N-acylamino acid racemase, processes for the synthesis of
optically pure natural and unnatural amino acids, including L-methionine, L-tryptophan,
L-tyrosine, and L-DOPA, from racemic N-acetyl-amino acids with high yields have been reported
[24]. Based on the same rationale, synthesis of L-HPA from racemic
N-acetyl-homophenylalanine, catalyzed by E. coli cells expressing N-acylamino acid racemase
and L-aminoacylase, with a conversion yield of 96 % has been reported [25,26]. In this study, we
report the synthesis of L-HPA from N-carbamoyl-homophenylalanine with immobilized
N-acylamino acid racemase and N-carbamoyl-L-amino acid amidohydrolase.
2. Materials and methods
2.1 Preparation of N-carbamoyl-homophenylalanine
D-Homophenylalanine (D-HPA, courtesy of Dr. Yang, Industrial Technology Research
Institute, Hsinchu, Taiwan) was dissolved in 100 ml D.I. water to a concentration of 2 % (w/v) at
80 oC under alkaline condition. Twenty ml of potassium cyanate (KCNO, Showa Chemical, Japan)
at a concentration of 1 N was added dropwise into the D-HPA solution. The reaction was allowed
to proceed at 80 oC for one h. Upon the completion of the reaction, the pH of the reaction product
was adjusted to 7.0 with HCl to precipitate the unreacted D-HPA [17]. The filtrate containing the
desired N-carbamoyl-D-HPA was collected by filtration and subsequently lyophilized. The same
strategy was employed for the synthesis and purification of N-carbamoyl-L-HPA from L-HPA.
buffer containing 300 mM NaCl and 250 mM imidazole. Imidazole in the collected fractions was
subsequently removed by dialysis against 100 mM pH 8.0 Tris buffer with a dialysis tube
(MWCO 6,000 to 8,000, Spectra, USA). The enzyme solutions thus obtained were further
concentrated by centrifugal ultrafiltration with Amicon Ultracel-10K (Millipore, USA).
Immobilization of the purified enzymes was performed by mixing predetermined amount of
Eupergit C® ((100 –200 m, Rhom Pharma, Germany) with racemase or L-N-carbamoylase in
100 mM pH 8.0 Tris buffer at room temperature for 12 h. The immobilized enzymes was
collected by filtration and then rinsed thoroughly with the aforementioned Tris buffer.
2.4 Characterization of the immobilized enzymes
The pH optima of the immobilized racemase and the immobilized L-N-carbamoylase were
determined by mixing appropriate amount of immobilized enzymes (200 mg for the immobilized
racemase and 100 mg for the immobilized L-N-carbamoylase) with 500l of the 100 mM pH 8.0
Tris buffer containing 10 mM substrate (N-carbamoyl-D-HPA for racemase and
N-carbamoyl-L-HPA for L-N-carbamoylase) and 2 M CoCl2 at pHs ranging from 5.0 to 11.0.
The reaction was allowed to proceed at 50 oC for 30 min.
The temperature optima of the immobilized racemase and the immobilized
L-N-carbamoylase were determined by measuring enzyme activities with the aforementioned
substrates in 100 mM pH 8.0 Tris buffer at temperatures ranging from 40 oC to 80 oC. The
thermostability of the immobilized enzymes was accessed by measuring the catalytic activities of
the enzymes that had been previously incubated at the prescribed temperature for 30 min. At the
USA). Effluent from the reactor was sampled periodically for HPLC analysis. In a scaled up
version of the system, the reaction mixture was fed at a flow rate of 2.0 ml/h to a reactor
containing 1.09 g of the immobilized racemase and 10.91 g of the immobilized
L-N-carbamoylase.
2.6 Analysis
The enzyme activities of racemase and L-N-carbamoylase were determined by measuring
the concentrations of N-carbamoyl-L-HPA and L-HPA, respectively, in the reaction products by
HPLC. Samples (10 l each) were injected in to a HPLC system (Jasco, Japan) equipped with a
Chirobiotic T column (Astec, USA). The column was eluted isocratically with a mobile phase
consisting of methanol and 10 mM ammonium phosphate solution with 0.05% (v/v) acetic acid at
a volume ratio of 70:30 [25]. The absorbance of the effluent was monitored at 210 nm. One unit
of enzyme activity was defined as the amount of enzymes that result in the formation of 1 mol
of product /min under the assay conditions. Protein concentrations of all samples were analyzed
by the Bradford method with protein dye (Bio-Rad, USA) at 595 nm [29]. Cell lysate and purified
enzyme preparations were analyzed by SDS-PAGE with 12% polyacrylamide gel stained with
Commassie blue [30].
3. Results and discussion
3.1 Synthesis of N-carbamoyl-HPAs
Since substrates, enantiomerically pure N-carbamoyl-L-HPA and N-carbamoyl-D-HPA, for
used for activity analysis and enzyme immobilization.
3.3 Immobilization of enzymes
Both racemase and L-N-carbamoylase were covalently immobilized on Eupergit C, a
microporous epoxy-activated acrylic matrix that has been used for a wide variety of enzymes and
biotransformation reactions, via the linkages between the oxirane groups on the matrix and the
amino and thiol groups of the enzymes [31]. The effect of enzyme concentration used during the
immobilization process on enzyme loads and the specific activities of the immobilized enzymes
was investigated. As shown in Fig. 3 (a), both the enzyme load and enzymatic activity of the
biocatalysts increased with the concentration of racemase. At a racemase concentration of 1.0
mg/ml a biocatalyst with an enzyme load of 1.96 mg/g gel and an enzyme activity of 1.55 U/g gel
was obtained, giving the immobilized racemase with a specific activity of 0.79 U/mg protein.
Although further increase in enzyme concentration resulted in a biocatalyst with a higher enzyme
load and higher enzyme activity, the specific activity of the racemase immobilized on Eupergit C
declined. At an enzyme load of 2.98 mg/g gel, for example, the racemase immobilized on
Eupergit C exhibited a specific activity of 0.54 U/ mg protein, a 32% drop compared to the
biocatalyst with an enzyme load of 1.96 mg/g gel. The decline in specific activity of the
immobilized racemase could be attributed to steric hindrance at high enzyme loads, making some
of the immobilized enzyme inaccessible for substrate. In either cases, the specific activity of the
immobilized enzyme was less than 10 % that of the free enzyme, 9.17 U/mg protein (Hsu et al.,
2006), indicating extensive inactivation of the enzyme during immobilization.
maintained at pHs ranging from 6.0 to 9.0 for the immobilized racemase. The broadening of pH
profile makes the immobilized racemase better suited for catalyzing racemization reaction at
elevated pH. For example, while the relative activity of free racemase dropped to 67.5 % at pH
9.0, the immobilized racemase retained a relative activity of 94.1 % at the same pH. However, the
immobilized racemase was more vulnerable under acidic conditions. While the free racemase
retained a relative activity of 65 % at pH 5.0, the immobilized racemase exhibited a relative
activity of ca. 18 % at the same pH.
The pH profiles of the free and the immobilized L-N-carbamoylase was shown in Fig. 4(b).
Unlike that for the racemase, the optimal reaction pH of L-N-carbamoylase, pH 8.0, was
essentially not altered upon immobilization. Furthermore, the immobilized L-N-carbamoylase
exhibited a higher relative activity at low pHs and lower relative activity at high pH than the free
enzyme. The down-shift in pH profile is somewhat unexpected because of the absence of
positively-charged groups on the surface of the support. Nevertheless, overall as shown in
Fig.4(b), the immobilized L-N-carbamoylase exhibited a better pH stability than the free enzyme.
It is interesting to note that the altered pH profiles of the immobilized racemase and the
immobilized L-N-carbamoylase make the synthesis of L-HPA by the bi-enzyme reaction in a
single bioreactor possible. The integration of the racemization reaction by racemase and the
hydrolysis reaction by L-N-carbamoylase in a single reactor could significantly boost the
conversion yield of L-HPA by shifting the equilibrium of racemization reaction toward
N-carbamoyl-L-HPA and simplifies the production process by eliminating the need for the
separation of N-carbamoyl-L-HPA from unconverted N-carbamoyl-D-HPA. However, this
immobilization. Higher relative activities were also observed at elevated temperatures.
The effect of immobilization on the thermostability of the enzymes was also studied. Each
enzyme preparation was incubated at the designated temperature for 30 min and subsequently
cooled down for activity analysis conducted at 50 oC. As shown in Fig. 6, the thermostabilities of
both racemase and L-N-carbamoylase were significantly enhanced upon immobilization. For
examples, while both free racemase and L-N-carbamoylase experienced a decline in activity
when the incubation temperature was increased from 50 oC to 60 oC, the activity remained
essentially unchanged for the immobilized L-N-carbamoylase and was slightly increased for the
immobilized racemase. Even at higher incubation temperatures, the immobilized enzymes still
displayed higher thermostabilities than the free enzymes. However, incubation at 80 oC resulted
in a complete loss in enzyme activity for both free and immobilized enzymes. These results
indicate that immobilization increases the ranges of operation temperature and enhances the
thermostabilities of the enzymes.
3.4.3 Reusability of the immobilized enzymes
The reusability of the immobilized enzymes was studied in a batch reactor. The data
obtained, as shown in Fig. 7(a), indicate that the immobilized racemase is very stable. Even after
40 cycles, no apparent decline in the racemization activity of the enzyme was observed. However,
the operation stability of the immobilized L-N-carbamoylase was relatively low. As shown in Fig.
7(b), the immobilized enzyme experienced a 40 % decline in hydrolysis activity after just 14
cycles. The gap between the operation stabilities of the two immobilized enzyme may complicate
increased steady for the first two h and gradually declined thereafter, which could be attributed to
the inactivation of the immobilized L-N-carbamoylase. This was accompanied by a steady
increase in the concentration of N-carbamoyl-L-HPA converted by the immobilized racemase. At
a mass ratio of 1:10, corresponding to 0.17 U of racemase and 7.87 U of L-N-carbamoylase, the
concentration of L-HPA increased steadily for a period of 4 h, in which essentially no
N-carbamoyl-L-HPA was detected in the effluent. This was followed by a decline in the
concentration of L-HPA and an increase in the concentration of N-carbamoyl-L-HPA. These
results indicate that by increasing the amount of L-N-carbamoylase used the reactor system can
be maintained functional for a longer period of time. The performance of a larger reactor with 1.7
U of racemase and 78.7 U of L-N-carbamoylase was thus studied. As shown in Fig. 9, at a feed
rate of 2 ml/h the concentration of L-HPA increased steadily and reached the maximum, 0.65 mM,
at 20 h. No N-carbamoyl-L-HPA was detected in the effluent in this period as it was completely
converted to L-HPA. The concentration of L-HPA declined gradually thereafter. This was
accompanied by a concomitant increase in N-carbamoyl-L-HPA concentration as the activity of
the immobilized L-N-carbamoylase declined. At the 100th h the concentration of L-HPA dropped
to 0.1 mM and maintained at this level onward. The concentration of N-carbamoyl-L-HPA in the
effluent remained at around 10 mM throughout this period, indicating that the immobilized
racemase was active even after 250 h. The high operation stability of the immobilized racemase
observed in the continuous process is consistent with the results of the repeated-batch
experiments.
References
1. Ondetti MA, Cushman DW. Inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system. A new approach to
the therapy of hypertension. J Med Chem 1981;24: 355-61.
2. Hayashi K, Nunami K, Kato J, Yoneda N, Kubo M, Ochiai T, Ishida R. Studies on
angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. 4. Synthesis and angiotensin converting enzyme
inhibitory activities of 3-acyl-1-alkyl-2-oxoimidazolidine-4- carboxylic acid derivatives. J
Med Chem 1989;32:289-97.
3. Bevan EG, Connell JMC, Doyle J, Carmichael HA, Davies DL, Lorimer AR, McInnes GT.
Candoxatril, a neutral endopeptidase inhibitor: efficacy and tolerability in essential
hypertension. J Hypertens 1992;10:607-13.
4. Polinsky RJ. Clinical pharmacology of rivastigmine: a new-generation acetyl- cholinesterase
inhibitor for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease. ClinTher 1998;20:634-47.
5. Corey EJ, Sachdev HS, Gougoutas JZ, Saenger W. Studies on the symmetric synthesis of
alpha-amino acids. II. New systems for highly specific asymmetric synthesis with
conservation of the chiral reagent. J Am Chem Soc. 1970;92:2488-501
6. Morrison JD. Ed. Asymmetric Synthesis, Chiral Catalysis Vol. 5.Academic: Orlando, FL,
1985.
7. Williams RM, Sinclair PJ, Zhai D, Chen D. Practical asymmetric syntheses of
alphaamino-acids through carbon carbon bond constructions on electrophilic glycine
templates. J Am Chem Soc 1988;110:1547–57.
8. Herold P, Indolese AF, Studer M, Jalett HP, Siegrist U, Blaser HU. New technical synthesis
16. Chen ST, Tseng MJ, Kao T, Sookkheo B, Surat T. Facile Synthesis of L-homophenylalanine
by equilibrium-shift enzymatic reaction using engineered tyrosine aminotransferase. 2000;
U.S. Patent 6,146,859.
17. Cho BK, Seo JH, Kang TW, Kim BG. Asymmetric synthesis of L-homophenylalanine by
equilibrium-shift using recombinant aromatic L-amino acid transaminase. Biotechnol Bioeng
2003;83:226–34.
18. Lo HH, Hsu SK, Lin WD, Chan NL, Hsu WH. Asymmetrical synthesis of
L-homophenylalanine using engineered Escherichia coli aspartate aminotransferase.
Biotechnol Prog 2005;21:411–5.
19. Ahmad AL, Oh PC, Abd Shukor SR. Sustainable biocatalytic synthesis of
L-homophenylalanine as pharmaceutical drug precursor. Biotechnol Adv 2009;27:286-96.
20. Regla I, Luna H, Pérez HI, Demare P, Bustos-Jaimes I, Zaldívar V, Calcagno ML. Enzymatic
resolution of N-acetyl-homophenylalanine with mammalian kidney acetone powders.
Tetrahedron: Asymmetr 2004;15:1285-8.
21. Tokuyama S, Hatano K. Cloning, DNA sequencing and heterologous expression of the gene
for thermostable N-acylamino acid racemase from Amycolatopsis sp. TS-1-60 in Escherichia
coli. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol 1995:42:884-9.
22. Verseck S, Bommarius A, Kula MR. Screening, overexpression and characterization of an
N-acylamino acid racemase from Amycolatopsis orientalis subsp. lurida. Appl Microbiol
Biotechnol 2001;55:354-61.
23. Su SC, Lee CY. Cloning of the N-acylamino acid racemase gene from Amycolatopsis azurea
bacteriophage T4. Nature 1970;227:680-5.
31. Boller T, Meier C, Menzler S. Eupergit oxirane acrylic beads: how to make enzymes fit for
biocatalysis. Organic Proc Res Develop 2002;6:509-19.
Figure 7 Reusability of (a) racemase and (b) L-N-carbamoylase in a batch reactor. All reactions
were carried out at 50 oC, pH8.0 for 2 h.
Figure 8 Effect of biocatalyst composition on L-HPA synthesis. Mixtures of immobilized
racemase and immobilized L-N-carbamoylase at mass ratio of 5:1 (a) and 1:10 (b)
with a total mass of 1.2 g were placed in a packed-bed bioreactor.
N-carbamoyl-D-HPA at a concentration of 10 mM was fed to the reactor at a flow rate
of 1.0 ml/h. The concentrations of L-HPA (○) and N-carbamoyl-L-HPA (●) in the
effluent were monitored.
Figure 9 Continuous process for the synthesis of L-HPA. Mixture of the immobilized racemase
and the immobilized L-N-carbamoylase at mass ratio of 1:10 with a total mass of 12 g
were placed in a packed-bed bioreactor. N-carbamoyl-D-HPA at a concentration of 10
mM was fed to the reactor at a flow rate of 2.0 ml/h. The concentrations of L-HPA (○)
and N-carbamoyl-L-HPA (●) in the effluent were monitored.
Figure 2 (a)
racemase
M 1 2 3 4 5
116
66
45
31
21
Figure 2 (b)
carbamoylase
M 1 2 3 4 5
116
66
45
31
21
Figure 4(b)
Figure 5(a)
Figure 6(b)
Figure 7(a)
Figure 8 (a)
Figure 8 (b)
