 2 
中文摘要 
本篇研究中，提出了大眾捷運系統駕駛策略的最佳化方法，目的在於兩相鄰站間的節省能
源。組合式最佳化方法則用來解決線上最佳化問題。為了得到最佳化列車駕駛策略，列車的
操作模式包含了加速、等速、滑行模式，同時每個區間中還包含了速度碼，這些不同區間中
的操作模式與速度碼則由最大最小螞蟻演算法(MAX-MIN ant system algorithm)來決定。藉由
數個實驗來驗證了實際的限制，其中包含了速限、列車實際速度、實際與平均坡度、時間、
功率、耗能。相較於之前的研究，在耗能這方面，本研究個案中的結果證明了優越的性能表
現。使用上述介紹的方法，在合理的給定計算時間內，線上最佳化變成是可行的。 
關鍵詞：大眾捷運系統、列車駕駛策略、節能、最佳化 
Abstract 
This paper presents a method for optimizing the train driving strategies of mass rapid transit 
systems, with the aim to save energy between successive stations. Combinational optimization 
techniques are utilized to solve the online optimization problem. To achieve an optimal train driving 
strategy, train operation modes, including acceleration, cruise and coast modes, in tandem with the 
speed codes of each section, are determined by the MAX-MIN ant system algorithm. Practical 
constraints, including speed limits, practical train speed, practical and equivalent gradient, 
acceleration, time, power, and energy consumption are verified by numerical experiments. The 
results of the case study show superior performance in terms of energy consumption in comparison 
with the previous research. Given that computation time is a reasonable level, it becomes legitimate 
to address online optimization by using the approach proposed. 
Keywords: Mass Rapid Transit System, Train Driving Strategy, Energy-efficient, Optimization 
Introduction 
The purpose of the signalling system is to control, supervise, and protect all passengers and 
trains in the railway network from any hazards and delays. In the early phases of railway, the 
fixed-block signalling (FBS) system was used and has continued to be developed. FBS systems 
characterize the signalling blocks at fixed positions and separate the front and following trains with 
several signalling blocks. Ke and Chen presented individual approaches in determining the 
block-layout and designing the speed codes of each block for saving energy in mass rapid transit 
systems (MRTSs) under several constraints, for example, velocity, acceleration, jerk, running time 
and so on [1, 2]. Application of a genetic algorithm (GA) and dynamic programming (DP) offered a 
potential way forward. Similar considerations motivated utilization of a framework derived from 
 4 
 
Braking curve of ATO system
Direction
 of traveling
Response time
Braking curve of ATP system
Safe distanceStopping distance
 
Fig. 1 Braking curves of ATO/ATP systems in the MBS system 
 
To increase the line capacity, it is essential to subdivide the railway into several sub-blocks and 
apply the high-density fixed-block systems. To this end, the moving-block signalling (MBS) system 
can be introduced. Figure 1 shows the braking curves of the automatic train operation (ATO) or 
automatic train protection (ATP) systems in the MBS system. Summation of the distance related to 
response time, stopping distance and safe distance is considered to avoid collision. The system 
relies on the communication of high-integrity data between the train and the wayside equipment. By 
using this method to transmit information, controllers can optimize system performance and provide 
a prompt response. This method facilitates minimal train separation, in addition to greater flexibility 
than the fixed-block signalling system, with respect to reporting the train’s position and setting 
target points. The above-mentioned is the braking cures under different train control systems. 
However, the trains running on the track still depend on the speed command, so-called speed code, 
to regulate the train velocity and separate the gaps of successive trains. 
2. MAX-MIN ANT SYSTEM 
Ant system (AS), which forms a basis of ACO algorithms, is increasing to be used to find the 
near-optimal solution of the optimization problem. The AS has not been used to solve the practical 
problems, but it has provided some extended systems for other problems [7]. The MAX-MIN ant 
system (MMAS) algorithm was proposed to solve the single objective problems for a travelling 
salesman problem (TSP) [8]. There are several modifications from algorithms AS to MMAS [9]. 
First, to improve the performance of AS, only the iteration-best and best-so-far ants are allowed to 
update the pheromone trails. This mechanism strongly improves the selection probability of the best 
tour. Second, the range of the pheromone values is in between the upper and lower limits, and the 
pheromone values are set by the upper limit at the beginning of the optimization. This mechanism 
not only mitigates the earlier stagnation, but it also explores further solutions, since the lower limit 
is greater than zero. Third, a small evaporation rate is used to increase the searching range of tours. 
Furthermore, a re-initialization mechanism is used to renew the pheromone trails when the search 
 6 
4. OPTIMIZATION OF TRAIN DRIVING STRATEGIES 
4.1 Objective Function and Constraint Conditions 
The objective function is defined as  
( )*
1
min ,
sN
i i i
i
E E v g
=
= ∑  (6) 
where *E  is the minimum energy consumption. sN  is the number of sections between successive 
stations. Because of the use of different operation modes and speed codes for individual section, the 
energy consumption can be minimized by the methods of combination optimization. iE  is the 
energy consumption within the i-th section. { }1 2,  ,  ,  i nv V v v v∈ = ⋯  is the speed code of the i-th 
section where V  is the set of allowed speed codes of the i-th section and n  is the number of 
speed codes. In this research the speed interval between successive codes is set by 5 km/h, from 40 
to 80 km/h. The set of selected speed codes of individual section in the journal is the train 
energy-efficient operation, also named the energy-efficient driving strategy. ig  is the average 
gradient within the i-th section. 
The constraint condition is defined as 
,
1
s
av av specN
i dwell
i
L V V
t t
=
= ≥
+∑
 (7) 
where L  is the inter-station distance, it  is the running time within the i-th section, dwellt  is the 
dwell time, avV  is the train average speed, and ,av specV  is the specification of train average speed. 
The flowchart illustrated in Figure 2 shows the optimization of train driving strategies with the 
aim of conserving energy. There are two stages in this flow chart: pre-work stage and online 
optimization stage. In the pre-work stage, the information about track profile, train performance and 
system operation is collected for calculation of energy consumption and traveling time. The track 
speed limits are modified in order to match the requirement of different operation modes. To apply 
the combination optimization technique, the inter-section is equally divided by the given number of 
sections. Then, the upper limit of speed codes and average gradient of each section are decided and 
calculated for weighting values of heuristic information. Finally, the consumed energy and time of 
each section under different operation modes and speed codes are calculated for the use of online 
optimization stage. In this stage, the essential calculation for energy consumption and traveling time 
of each section has been finished. In the online optimization stage, the MMAS algorithm is used to 
minimize the energy consumption by optimizing the combination of operation modes and speed 
codes for each section. Therefore, the proposed method can greatly reduce the calculation time and 
properly apply to the online optimization. This is explained further in the following sections.  
 8 
4.2 Determination of Operation Modes and Speed Codes Using the MMAS 
Due to the numerous sections, there is a vast range of possible solutions. The MMAS algorithm 
is ideal for solving this type of combinational optimization problems, and is also an excellent 
method to avoid getting trapped into local optimal solutions. The optimization process is explained 
as follows: 
(1) For the purpose of combinatorial optimization technique, the inter-station distance is divided 
into sN  sections. Because of the average speed limit (40 km/h when referring to Taipei 
MRTS and dwell time), the given speed command is set, for example by 40 km/h, to maintain 
the average train speed at a rate higher than the previous limit.  
(2) There are three modes of train operation: acceleration, cruise, and coast mode, all chosen in 
the optimization procedure. While the maximum line speed of Taipei MRTS is 80 km/h, in 
this research the speed interval between successive codes is set by 5 km/h, from 40 to 80 
km/h. 
(3) The tour of the ant in MMAS is constructed from 1S  to nS  where ( )1 2,  ,  ,  nS s s s= ⋯  is 
the set of sections and n  is the number of sections. In this research, both operation modes, 
{ }1,  2,  3M M M M=
 and speed codes, ( )1 2,  ,  V v v= ⋯  are given, where 1M , 2M , and 
3M  represent acceleration, cruise, and coast modes, respectively. The graph of this problem 
is constructed as ( ),  ,  ,  G M V H T= , where 
,( 1){ ;mi m jH m Sη +≡ ∈  
;  , ,  or }m S i j acceleration cruise coast∈ ∈
 is the heuristic information of sections m  to 
1m + , and ,( 1)mi m jη +  represents the weighting values of the heuristic information of three 
operation modes, and is created by the average gradient of section m . In addition, 
{ },( 1) | ;  , ,   or mi m jT m S i j acceleration cruise coastτ +≡ ∈ ∈  is the pheromone value of sections 
m
 to 1m + .  
(4) The amount of energy and time consumed in each section are calculated under different 
operational modes and speed codes. The results will be stored and used during the online 
optimization stage. 
(5) Although the optimal driving strategy, which satisfied the lower limit of average speed under 
normal operations, had been known, it is also necessary to promptly acquire a new train 
driving strategy with higher average speed for online rescheduling. Thus, when entering the 
online optimization stage, it is important to firstly input a new requirement of average speed. 
Depending on the new requirement, we can begin optimizing the train driving strategies. 
 10
,    if the ant is the iteration-best ant
,     if the ant is the best-so-far ant
iteration best
best
best so far
δ
δ δ
−
− −

= 

 
where (0,1)ρ ∈  is pheromone evaporation rate, 
,( 1)
best
mi m jτ +∆  is the pheromone update of the 
iteration-best and best-so-far ants from the operation mode of section m  to operation mode 
of section 1m + , 
_iteration bestE  is the energy consumption of the iteration-best ant, _ _best so farE  
is the energy consumption of the best-so-far ant. 
_
[0,1]iteration bestδ ∈  is a proportional constant 
for 
,( 1)
bset
mi m jτ +∆ , _unimproved index  is the number of the continuous unimproved iterations. 
(8) The pheromone trails continue to evolve until the upper limit of iteration time is reached. 
5. VERIFICATION OF PERFORMANCE 
In this research, we adopt the following parameter values: the maximum line speed is 80 km/h, 
while the constant acceleration/deceleration rate is 21.0 m/s± , and the jerk limit is 31.0 m/s± . The 
train-speed regulation has two operating modes: normal and programmed station stopping (PSS). 
When the train departs from the station, the normal operation mode regulates its speed. Upon 
approaching the next station, the regulatory mechanism changes to PSS mode. The starting point of 
PSS is 350 m leading the dwell position, as currently used in Taipei MRTS. While operating in PSS 
mode, the speed command of the train is calculated backwards from the dwell position. Therefore, 
the train will be accurately terminated at the platform by using the PSS. 
5.1 Case Study 1 
In this case, the lower limit of the average speed is 40 km/h. There are some track alignments 
where the line speed is 80 km/h and the inter-station distance is 2,000 meters. The gradient list is 
shown in TABLE 1. The parameters of the optimization algorithm are 50 ants, 50 sections, 100 
iterations, and 19 iterations for the re-initialization limit. All elements in the heuristic matrix are 
normalized in interval [0, 1], and all pheromone values are in the interval [0.2, 2]. The proportional 
factor of pheromone trails and heuristic information λ  is set at 0.5. The pheromone evaporation 
rate, ρ  is 0.1. Proportional constants 
_iteration bestδ  and _ _best so farδ  are set as 0.28 and 0.5, 
respectively. The intensity of the pheromone gradually evaporates in accordance with the number of 
continuous unimproved iterations. 
 
 12
 
 
(d) 
Fig. 3 Optimal results of Case 1 obtained by the MMAS 
 
TABLE 2 
Results of comparison for two methods  
Method Proposed method Method of [3] 
Average speed (km/h) 42.18 46.41 
Energy consumption (kWh) 59.02 73.42 
Computation time (mm:ss) 00:42 00:45 
5.2 Case Study 2 
The values of related parameters in Case 2 are the same as those found in Case 1. Two 
additional track speed limits are shown in TABLE 3. The optimal results of this case include 
different speed limits, practical train speed, practical and equivalent gradients, acceleration and 
power consumption, in which all are shown in Figure 5. The computation time of the optimal result 
is 46.59 sec and energy consumption is 77.88 kWh. In this case, the front half part of the 
 14
Since a large amount of computation time was taken in the previous research, the combinatorial 
optimization techniques were presented here to realize the objective of online optimization. The 
energy consumption is minimized by excluding the deceleration mode and by only considering 
three operational modes (acceleration, cruise, and coast). By comparing Case 1 with the existing 
approaches, the results clearly show a significant improvement in the efficiency of energy usage. 
The relevant findings in this respect are that computation time is shortened from several hours to 
less than thirty seconds, whereas the energy consumption is reduced by up to 19.4%. 
REFERENCES 
[1] Ke, B. R., and Chen, N.: ‘Signaling block-layout and strategy of train operation for saving 
energy in mass rapid transit systems’, IEE Proc. Electric Power Appli. 152, 2005, pp. 
129-140. 
[2] Ke, B. R., and Chen, N.: ‘Improvement of block-layout design for saving energy in rapid 
transit systems’, Int. J. of Elect. Eng. 16(1), 2009, pp. 13-25. 
[3] Ke, B. R., Chen, M. C., and Lin, C. L.: ‘Block-layout design using MAX-MIN ant system for 
saving energy on mass rapid transit systems’, IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst. 10(2), 2009, pp. 
226-235. 
[4] Hill, R. J., and Bond, L. J.: ‘Modeling moving-block railway signaling systems using 
discrete-event simulation’, Proc. IEEE/ASME Joint Rail Conf. Baltimore, MD, 1995, pp. 
105-111. 
[5] Liu, R., and Golovitchr, I. M.: ‘Energy-efficient operation of rail vehicles’, Transp. Research 
Part A 37(10), 2003, pp. 917-932. 
[6] Wong, K. K., and Ho, T. K.: ‘Coast control for mass rapid transit railways with searching 
methods’, IEE Proc.-Electric Power Applicat. 151, 2004, pp. 365-376. 
[7] Dorigo, M., and Stützle, T.: ‘Ant Colony Optimization’, MIT Press, Massachusetts, USA, 
2004.  
[8] Stützle, T., and Hoos, H.: ‘MAX-MIN ant system and local search for the traveling salesman 
problem’, Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Evol. Comput. Indianapolis, IN., 1997 pp. 309-314. 
[9] Stützle, T., and Hoos, H.: ‘MAX-MIN ant system’, Future Generation Comput. Systems J. 
16(8), 2000, pp. 889-914.  
 
本研究成果主要收錄在中興大學電機系碩士班研究生楊致傑畢業論文中，該研究生由林俊良
教授與主持人共同指導，研究結果已投稿至SCI期刊 IET Intelligent Transport Systems，目前
審查中。 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期 2010年10月13日
國科會補助計畫
研發成果名稱
發明人
(創作人)
技術說明
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
技術/產品應用範圍
產業別
計畫名稱:
計畫主持人:
計畫編號: 學門領域:
(中文)
(英文)
成果歸屬機構
(中文)
(英文)
高運量捷運列車行駛策略之線上最佳化
柯博仁
98 -2221-E -346 -008 - 電力系統
捷運列車行駛策略之線上最佳化
Online Optimization of Train Driving Strategy in Rapid Transit
Systems
國立澎湖科技大學 柯博仁,林俊良,楊致傑
本研究提出基於移動式閉塞區間號誌系統，以站間省能為目的，設計高運量捷
運列車行駛策略的最佳化方法，研究中利用組合最佳化技巧解決線上最佳化問
題。為滿足列車運行策略的最佳化問題，利用最大-最小螞蟻系統決定各區段列
車的運行模式與速度碼，其中涵蓋加速、等速與滑行模式，並同時滿足相關限
制條件。研究中使用MATLAB撰寫高運量捷運系統線上最佳化決策程式，模擬結
果將呈現不同線形速限下，實際列車速度、平均坡度、加速度、計算時間、功
率和能量的消耗，本研究的成果將可發展為協助捷運號誌系統進行列車運行省
能的決策工具。
   This research presents a method for optimizing the train driving
strategies of mass rapid transit systems, with the aim to save energy
between successive stations. Combinational optimization techniques
are utilized to solve the online optimization problem. To achieve an
optimal train driving strategy, train operation modes, including
acceleration, cruise and coast modes, in tandem with the speed codes
of each section, are determined by the MAX-MIN ant system algorithm.
Practical constraints, including speed limits, practical train speed,
practical and equivalent gradient, acceleration, time, power, and
energy consumption are verified by numerical experiments. The results
of the case study show superior performance in terms of energy
consumption in comparison with the previous research. Given that
computation time is a reasonable level, it becomes legitimate to陸上運輸業
軌道運輸系統
可應用在軌道系統的實際營運，作為列車省能運行規劃與設計的工具。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
2010.08.22-28 受邀前往北京交通大學「軌道交通控制與安全國家重點實驗室」
開設短期課程，課程名稱：Signaling Block-Layout Design and Train 
Operation for Saving Energy in Rapid Transit Systems，期間參觀實驗室
並討論未來合作方式。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
本研究成果主要收錄在中興大學電機系碩士班研究生楊致傑畢業論文中，該研究生由林俊
良教授與主持人共同指導，研究結果已投稿至 SCI 期刊 IET Intelligent Transport 
Systems，目前審查中。 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
學術貢獻： 
1.開創運用離散觀念與組合最佳化演算法，進行捷運列車運行省能速度最佳化與控制策略
的研究。 
2.在加速、等速、滑行三種列車運行模式下，建立適合即時線上系統運用的列車省能最佳
化演算法。 
3.提供螞蟻演算法的探討與嶄新領域的應用，未來可將相關理論與技術應用在運輸系統車
輛運行省能。 
 
產業技術貢獻： 
提昇參與研究人員的專業技能，培養軌道運輸系統的號誌人才，預期成果將可提供國內軌
道產業使用或參考，在未來有更多的學術研究貢獻於交通運輸系統領域。 
 
參與人員可獲致訓練： 
參與計畫人員可獲得軌道車輛運行模式建立、蟻群最佳化的知識、以及軌道運輸系統省能
的相關觀念。由列車行車模擬與最佳化演算法研究的過程中，進一步學習到最佳化理論與
系統整合的技巧，進而開發更多可供研究的問題。 
