行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■ 成 果 報 告   □期中進度報告 
（計畫名稱） 
基於腕骨相對位置、幾何特徵和假力建構之腕骨成長模型與其應用
在骨骼年齡判斷與生長預測上之研究 
 
計畫類別：■ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E－007－159－MY2 
執行期間：2007 年 08 月 01 日至 2009 年 07 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：鐘太郎 
共同主持人：刁翠美、謝奇文 
計畫參與人員： 徐英哲、林典君 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  ■完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
■赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          ■涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，■一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：國立清華大學電機工程學系 
 
中   華   民   國 98 年 08 月  31 日 
 2 
目錄： 
中英文摘要……………………………………………………………………….1 
目錄……………………………………………………………………………….2 
背景……………………………………………………………………………….3 
方法(假力模型)………………………………………………………………….12 
方法(骨區相對位置)……………………………………………………………..17 
結論……………………………………………………………………………….22 
論文發表結果……………………………………………………………………..24 
參考文獻…………………………………………………………………………..24 
計畫效果自評……………………………………………………………………..26 
 4 
 
 
 
Table 1 Ossification Time Table. 
 Female Male 
Centers  
Present 
 
Hand and Wrist 
Fusion 
(in year) 
 
Hand and Wrist 
Fusion 
(in year) 
At birth Capitate (birth to 3 mo) Hamate (birth to 3 mo) 
 Capitate (birth to 3 mo) 
Hamate (birth to 3 mo) 
 
End of 1 
yr 
Prox. phalanges II, III, IV 
Metacarpal II, III 
Distal radius (9 to 12 mo) 
15 
15 
17 
Distal radius (12 to 15 mo) 18 
End of 2 
yr 
Triquetrum (18 to 24 mo)* 
Prox. phalanges I,V 
Mid. phalanges II, III, IV 
Dist. phalanges I, III, IV, V 
Metacarpals I, IV, V 
 
15 
14½ 
13½ 
15 
Prox. phalanges II, III, IV,V 
Mid. phalanges III, IV 
Dist. phalanx I 
Dist. phalanges III, IV 
Metacarpal II, III, IV 
17 
16 to 17 
15 
15½ 
17 
End of 3 
yr 
Dist. phalanx II 
Mid. phalanx V 
Lunate (30 to 36 mo) 
13½ 
15 
Triquetrum (23 to 32 mo)* 
Mid. phalanx II 
Prox. phalanx I 
Metacarpal I 
Metacarpal V 
Lunate (24 to 36 mo) 
 
16 
17 
15½ 
17 
End of 4 
yr 
Trapezium (36 to 42 mo)* 
Trapezoid (42 to 50 mo)* 
Scaphoid (42 to 50 mo)* 
 Mid. phalanx V 
Dist. phalanges II, V 
Trapezium (40 to 48 mo)* 
16 
15¼ 
End of 6 
yr 
Distal ulna 16½ Trapezoid (60 to 66 mo)* 
Scaphoid (60 to 66 mo)* 
Distal ulna (60 to 66 mo) 
 
 
17½ 
End of 8 
yr 
Pisiform (variable and 
unreliable) 
 Pisiform (variable and 
unreliable) 
 
 
Generally, children came to do BA assessment are mostly due to height problem [34, 46]. 
Their parents are anxious to know whether medication could help them to raise height. However, 
BA assessment is a tedious load to paediatric radiologists and difficult for general radiologists as 
well as clinicians. The fully automatic computerized (FAC) BA estimation system can certainly 
be more accurate, decrease inter-observer difference and save time [47-49]. Furthermore it can be 
used by more doctors including paediatricians, endocrinologists and general radiologists. The 
system is also valuable in training for BA assessment in junior doctors. 
GP Method 
The Concept of Skeletal Age  
The standard X-ray images in GP Atlas depict the degree of skeletal development that was 
found to be representative of groups of healthy children at successive CA. Such standards provide 
a practical means by which the skeletal status of other children can be described in terms of the 
status the children on whom those standards were based. GP method makes it possible to 
compare a child’s bone growth with that of other children of the same sex and age to whom the 
 6 
maimed or otherwise injured than the one which is used more frequently. 
The important practical question is whether the degree of skeletal development apparent in 
each of the two hands of an individual child is sufficiently close so that the same estimate of 
skeletal status can be derived from either of them. There have been a number of published reports 
bearing on this point. The more important of which are cited in many papers from 1940 to 2009. 
Some researchers found that, children “progressing at par” (i.e., those whose SA and CA 
were the same or very similar) contained the highest percentage of cases in which there was no 
detectable difference between the skeletal status of the right and left hands. The observations of 
GP atlas also identified the assumption: the divergences in the over-all skeletal maturation of the 
two hands are so minor as to be negligible in the evaluation of skeletal status from 
roentgenograms 
Of course, there are some mismatch viewpoints of results; however, most of papers agree the 
difference is tiny between the left hand and the right hand in doing the BA assessment. However, 
so far no one could deliver the strong evidence to prove the absolute validation of bone age by 
using a single hand image due to the samples of images. Eventually, it have failed to carry away 
the impression that the differences in the skeletal status of the two hands of the same child are so 
frequent and so marked as to render very questionable the validity of skeletal assessments which 
are based on single hand-films. This conclusion is quite unwarranted, as even a very cursory 
reading of the original paper would disclose. 
TW Method 
The skeletal maturity of children is usually assessed from a standard radiograph of the left 
hand and wrist. An established clinical method to determine the skeletal maturity is the 
Tanner-Whitehouse (TW2) method. This method divides the skeletal development into several 
stages (labelled A, B, ..., I). The TW2 method involves the examination of 20 bones of the left 
hand and wrist and the assignment of a letter grade to each bone dependent on the attainment of 
clearly described bone-specific maturity indicators. The letter grade is then converted to a 
numeric score in accordance with the tables given by Tanner et al. and the scores are summed for 
each individual to give a maturity score on a scale of 0 to 1000. Maturity scores can be converted 
to bone age (BA) for each individual by comparison to British standards given by Tanner et al. 
and the relative maturation can be assessed by comparison of the SA to the individual's CA. 
Another significant reference bones are the radius-ulna-short bones (RUS). The option of the 
TW2 method, using only the radius, ulna and 11 short bones of the hand, was used to determine 
the SA and relative maturation. The carpal bones of the hand contribute little to the assessment of 
skeletal maturation after the onset of puberty and the RUS scheme therefore was more 
appropriate for the assessment of variation in our sample of 11 - 18 years old subjects [50]. The 
accuracy of the TW2 method is discussed by Tanner et al. and other researchers. Reliability, 
composed of both precision and dependability, was assessed for the single observer in this study 
as the coefficient of reliability in a test-retest assessment of a random 10% of the sample 
radiographs [51]. The coefficient of reliability was very high at 0.858. Of the 14.2% unreliability 
 8 
in the older groups. Carpal followed a similar pattern of TW3RUS.  
Some authors have compared TW1 and TW2 versions in populations of different origin and 
verified that the skeletal ages estimated by the TW1 system were, in general, higher than TW2 
skeletal ages, probably because in the TW2 system the adult score is reached one year earlier than 
in TW1 [3, 5, 11]. R K Bulla et. al. compared the TW2 system, which is based on the original 
British population of the TW method, and the TW3 system that presents a new standardized RUS 
score using a North American sample [7-11]. The correspondence of the SA estimated by all 
systems with the CA of the studied individuals was also determined.  
Some articles identified that the female skeletal ages estimated by TW2RUS were higher 
than the CA, as reported by Lejarraga, et. al. and others [8, 9, 12]. The skeletal ages estimated by 
TW3RUS and Carpal were smaller than TW2RUS skeletal ages, but they were similar to the CA. 
The standard deviation for TW2RUS and TW3RUS mean skeletal ages observed in the ninth age 
group reflects that most girls reached the adult stage in this group. Therefore, there was a 
minimum variation of the estimated skeletal ages with regard to the mean skeletal age. There are 
some papers presented that these differences between TW2RUS and TW3RUS are possibly due 
to the environmental background of the populations used for the development of the methods, as 
well as to the inherent characteristics of the studied individuals [8, 9]. It seems that the maturation 
pattern observed in the studied children is more alike the North American standards, meaning that 
Brazilian children are ahead of the British children regarding their skeletal maturation.  
Some surveys also depicted the differences between TW3 and carpals were smaller than the 
differences found between TW2RUS and carpals for both genders. Nevertheless, since carpals, in 
general, estimated smaller skeletal ages than TW2RUS and TW3RUS and the CA, it seems 
reasonable to state that there is an actual delay in the development of carpal bones compared to 
metacarpal and phalanges.   
The Comparison of GP with TW Method 
BA is commonly assessed by one of the two main methods: either the Greulich and Pyle 
method or the Tanner and Whitehouse (TW2) method. The Greulich and Pyle method as 
originally described involves a complex comparison of all of the bones in the hand and wrist 
against reference "normal" radiographs of different ages. In most institutions a "rapid" modified 
version of this technique is used, whereby the overall appearance of a given radiograph is 
compared with the reference radiographs and the nearest match is selected. Although this 
modified approach is considerably faster than the original it may be less accurate. The TW2 
method relies on the systematic evaluation of the maturity of all bones in the hand and wrist. 
Some studies have compared the two methods, and have suggested that there is close agreement 
between them. However, the data from these studies were analysed by regression analysis, which 
is inappropriate for this type of comparison.  
There are many articles criticized the GP method and TW method. Generally, the GP 
method is fast but objective; on the contrary, the TW2 method is complex but reliable. One of 
these papers is the paper proposed by RK Bulla et al [20]. They compared the rapid Greulich and 
 10
histogram thresholds, then applying the adaptive contour follower to the feature extraction, thus 
the object measurements are obtained. In 1991, Ewa Pietka et al. carried out a computer-assisted 
BA assessment method using phalanx lengths, atlas lengths and atlas matching under some 
restrictions of the quality of hand radiographs [41]. Two years later, E. Pietka et al. presented the 
research of feature extraction in carpals analysis [31]. They developed the threshold method for 
segmenting bones and the extraction of various features, such as area, perimeter, lengthening 
ratio, gray scale pixel value discrepancy, etc. By their experiment, they obtained the conclusion 
that only bone area, perimeter, and specific ratio are good features of carpals. Then in 1995, E. 
Pietka developed the bone assessment methods based on the automatically extracted features [26]. 
In 1997, S. Mahmoodi et al. constructed the automatic ROI locating algorithm by computer 
vision technique [24]. The survey is based on multi-scale method, roughly finding the contour of 
hand then identifying the contour of the fingers by analyzing the geometry of finger. The 
constraints of the method are few so it can make the bone age estimation (BAE) system more 
practical. 
In 2001, Ewa Pietka et al. addressed a method for preprocessing and epiphyseal/metaphyseal 
region of interest (ROI) feature extraction and its potential use in computer-assisted BA 
assessment [39]. The method was based on ratios of epiphyseal and metaphyseal diameters. In the 
same year, Marques Da Silva et al. introduced a method for determining a signature of the medius 
to estimate skeletal maturity [25]; however, a threshold has to be selected manually in the process 
to obtain the proximal phalanx length and the gap between the metacarpal and phalanx from the 
signature. In 2003, we presented the computerized bone age assessment system based on 
phalangeal features [53]. We first segment the bone from hand radiology images by using Gabor 
filter, Local Variance Edge Detector methods, then extract features by DCT and DWT methods 
for the training of assessment system based on neural network. In 2004, E. Pietka et al. presented 
the graphical user interface used for bone age assessment [54]. After 2003, Ewa Pietka et al. 
integrated some algorithms such as semi-auto CADs in PACs system; however, their BAE 
computer-assisted system must refer the medical doctor's opinion and judgment to get a 
reasonable result. These papers focused on how to construct the CAD system but not to mention 
the algorithms too much [54-57]. The different skeletal assessing methods developed by them 
before were applied at various stages of skeletal development. The interface had been designed 
and implemented for the testing of the image processing routines and comparison of the results of 
quantitative image analysis with the visual interpretation of extracted regions of interest. In 2005, 
we developed the bone age assessment by the combination of the results based on phalangeal 
features obtain from modified neural network method, and a fuzzy concept assessment based on a 
carpal area ratio extraction [27]. We identified the assessment of carpals was useful in childhood 
but worse in the teenage, by comparing the trend of correct rates of assessment by two aspects. 
This module can take the advantages of both phalangal and carpal aspects thus the correct rate 
can be improved, but needs heavier calculations. Basically, artificial neural networks are good at 
the classification in high dimensional feature space. On the other hand, fuzzy theory is suitable to 
make a decision when given formulated relationship even though the relationship may be 
ill-defined. We use the geometric segmentation of phalanxes as features; clearly, the feature 
 12
Principle axis can be defined as the longest axis that through the center of the CROI. In Fig. 
3, we set the horizontal line AB  as the base line and subsequently measure the 180 lengths of 
axes through the center of the CROI with the angle ranged from 0 to 179 degrees. While 
obtaining all the 180 axes, the longest axis, CD , is taken as the principle axis.  
 
 
Fig. 3 The horizontal axis AB  and the longest axis CD .  
   
 
Growing status 
 
  Following, the contour sampled vector ),,( tyxCs
r
 , and distance column vector ),( yxd
r
 
are obtained by applying the angle scanning with the origin CM for the bone contour. In order to 
analyze the difference quantitatively, calibrating operation is employed by the least mean square 
error method to minimize the total distance between two contours of different ages. After the 
calibration, we make a re-sampling action to derive a newer contour sampled vector 
),,( ttyxCs δ+
r
 and distance column vector ),,( ttyxd δ+
r
.  
 
External force 
 
 The concept of pseudo force is introduced to describe the growth status. In classical 
dynamic, the external forces act on the particle is written as: 
∑ +== TNext FFFF
rrrv
 
(1) 
where Fext, FN and FT are external force, normal force and tangential force, respectively. In 
the study, we assume the bone contour is a non-uniform elastic constant rubber band with a 
certain tension on it. If the system holds on the status in equilibrium, the FT can be treated as a 
constant due to the zero net force. When the age increases, the bone grows larger size. Here, we 
assume the variances among the shapes in different ages are thought of as a rubber band with 
non-uniform elastic modulus exerted by outward normal force and tangential force. Consider the 
small segment of rubber band, the normal and tangential displacement ∆XN and ∆XT from 
 14
are introduced to segment the global features, where if xx  and  represent the final and 
initial displacement from the original, respectively. To make a simple math translation of kinetic 
energy and elastic potential energy that we can obtain three equations as follows; 
∑∑∑
−
⋅=
∆
⋅≈⋅=
+
i
ii
i
i
iN
i
i
iikN t
dd
m
t
X
mvmE 2122 )(
2
1)(
2
1
2
1
δδ
rrr
 
(8) 
 
∑∑ −⋅=−⋅= +−+
i
iiiN
i
iiiNsN ddwddkU )(2
1)(
2
1 22
1
122
1
 
(9) 
 
}]),(),([)],(),({[
2
1 2
1
2
1
1∑ −−+−+⋅
≈
++
−
i
isisisisiT
sT
tCtCttCttCw
U
θθδθδθ
 
(10) 
where Ek is kinetic energy in normal direction; UsN, and UsT are representing elastic 
potential in normal and tangential direction, respectively. In simulation,  
 
A demonstration after bone centre locating is illustrated in Fig. 4. The figures of weighting 
matrices can represent a growth status in all the directions of the bone contour. Each weighting 
matrix records individually the growth of a stage, a bone, and in a sex. The differences between 
them represent the different shape evolvement status. The larger value of element inside 
weighting matrix means the larger growth amount in its corresponding angle (direction). As 
previous, we know a carpal is nearly round  in  the  beginning  stage  of  ossification,  
then,  evolves  to  be  specific  shape gradually, such as Triangle or Hamate. The weighting 
matrices are calculated for constructing  a  computerized  atlas  (or  model)  that  
describes  the  ossifying  status  of carpals. 
 
 
  
Age 1-2 Age 2-3 Age 3-4 Age 5-6 
Fig. 4. The demonstration is growth status of Capitate. The outer contour represents the elder one 
of two neighboring age images. 
 
 
In simulation, 600 pieces of images of each age from 1 to 10 years old are imported into the 
proposed method to extract the elastic constants and corresponding kinetic energy and elastic 
potential. Besides, we choose m=1 and δt=1 for all cases simplification. Seven carpals- Hamate, 
Capitate, Triquetrum, Lunate, Scaphoid, Trapezoid, and Trapezium; of each wrist image are 
analyzed. Two representatives with normalization are used to describe the isotropic and growing 
speed characteristics. The math form is shown as below:  
 16
 
 
Fig. 5 A sketch demonstrating the carpal bone growth of a Capitate with the testing pattern; 
the test pattern in a solid line and its estimation in the dots with different ages; the estimation 
completed by using interpolation method. The figures show the bone shape prediction and recall 
based on the proposed pseudo force model. Of course, the result of long term prediction and 
recall is not satisfactory. We can get a reasonable shape by geometric features modification. The 
left side shows the schematic flowchart of the proposed procedures and the right side shows a 
synthesis example of carpal images with recall and prediction function. 
 
Pseudo Force 
Model
Growth Factors
Geometric Features 
Modification
Bone Age 
Estimation
Carpals Image 
Synthesis
Growth Prediction 
and Recall
 
The schematic applications of the proposed pseudo force model combining geometric feature 
modification. 
 
In the study, the evaluation of bone ossified processes is a novelty phenomenon by using the 
physical concept to investigate the radiographs of the database. Since the growth of bone shape in 
a short time interval is limit, and the existing errors in the images with two neighboring ages can 
be neglected. We develop a method to overlay two bones of with neighboring ages for calculating 
weighting matrices. Initially, we introduced the growth factors to represent the skeletal maturity. 
The normal and tangential elastic coefficients are used to depict the growth speed and direction of 
bones. Furthermore, the preliminary simulation results not only can be applied to bone age 
estimation but make the growth evaluation of individual bone possible. 
In our observation, the growth factors are similar to the size and morphologic features of the 
CROI for the younger children, and many studies have suggested that the features are significant 
in the prediction of bone age [4,5]. While developing, both Capitate and Hamate present the most 
significant correlations in the bone growth model, and the other bones are followed. The 
 18
the area of each carpal bone was calculated.  
In order to obtain bio-feature of each child, the carpal center of mass must be calculated by 
Cartesian coordinate. The every Cartesian coordinate positions in each carpal bone were recorded 
and summed. Then, we can acquire the 7 relative lengths as defined length 1 to 7, and 7 relative 
angles as defined angle 1 to 7 from each carpal by a simple Pythagorean theorem and 
trigonometric function, respectively. Unfortunately, the size of ROI of each child is different 
because the patient’s examination procedure is unequal; therefore, normalized procedure must be 
executed. In addition, the relative angle must be rotated to make the x-axis superimposed by 
length 1 as a base line because the relative angle also must unanimous. Finally, the bio-feature 
pattern of each child as personal ID card was composed with 7 relative lengths and 7 relative 
angles and presented via Cartesian coordinate and polar coordinate. 
The validation of the study must be calculated by SPSS with version 12.0 with t-test 
function and multivariate analysis which is a kind of general linear mode (GLM). The t-test can 
obtain the relative between cases of boys and girls and have a significant or not. The multivariate 
analysis confers with the relative angle and length among gender and age which have a 
significant or not and the level of importance between parameters. 
 
 
 20
or 2 years old than carpal maturation of goys, which is also the same result as GP method. 
Moreover, when the angle has a large variance, the growth time of the carpal bone just appear 
beginning. The angle of Hamate in 2-year-old boy is about 45 degree and then the angle has a 
large change in 3 years old with angle about 160 degrees which is the same the GP result. Other 
carpal bones which include Triquetral, Lunate, Trapezium, Trapezoid and Scaphoid with boys 
and girls are the same result as GP method and whole results present the details in submitting 
paper  
The result of paired t-test shows that the t-values between genders and lengths of 
bio-features pattern are all negative. It is indicate that the carpal maturation of girls is ahead of 
the carpal maturation of boys. Moreover, the t-test between genders and length of Capitate and 
Hamate with t-value of 9.2 and 7.2 are larger than others t-values. Therefore, Capitate and 
Hamate is very important in bone age estimation, which is the same as TW method. In TW 2 
method, the boys’ and girls’ scores in Capitate and Hamate is larger than others scores. On the 
other hand, the t-test between genders and the length of Scaphoid have not significant with 
p-value of 0.284, which express the Scaphoid is not an important index for estimation of bone age. 
The result is also the same as TW 2 method.(4) The TW 3 method indicates that Scaphoid with 
boys’ and girls’ scores is similar.  
The study also expresses the angle relativity between genders and angles. The F-values 
between genders and angles of bio-feature pattern are all positive, which is present the speed of 
carpal maturation of girls is ahead of the speed of carpal maturation of boys, especially for 
Trapezium and Trapezoid with F-value of 28.7 and 35.7. On the other hand, the statistical result 
with genders and lengths of bio-feature pattern are all positive. The genders and length of 
Trapezium and Trapezoid with F-values of 17.2 and 14.8, which are larger than others carpal 
bone except for Capitate, indicate that the Trapezium and Trapezoid have exactly differential, and 
the speed of Trapezium and Trapezoid maturation of girls were faster than those of boys. C.W. 
Heish et al. published the geometric features of carpal bone paper which also referred to the 
ossification sequence of trapezium and trapezoid bones between Taiwanese and the atlas of the 
GP method is quite different.(17) Therefore, the two carpal bones are very important parameter in 
bone age estimation. 
In conclusion, the paper utilizes the each patient’s characteristic in itself which is carpal center of 
mass as bio-features to describe the relativity of carpal maturation among BA and gender in 
pediatrics. The database includes 180 normal children with ages from 2 to 10 years old. Each 
radiogram of child can be segmented the 7 individual carpal bones to acquire a unique bio-feature 
pattern as a personal ID card. Finally, the statistics with t-test and multivariate analysis applied to 
verify the accuracy of the study. The results show the t-value in which Capitate and Hamate 
between boys and girls were -9.2 and -7.2 larger than others t-values was extraordinary 
significant, and the multivariate with F-value of Trapezium and Trapezoid are 17.2 and 14.8 
larger than others F-values. The bio-features present the situation of carpal maturation between 
genders and between the different ages which are the same trend as GP and TW method. In 
addition, the study directly perceived through the senses to estimate BA and to obtain more detail 
result with each child rather than compelled to match a standard atlas roughly. 
 22
statistics of hands is conducted. The correlation coefficients computation and linear regression 
analysis are utilized to select and analyze the computerized features of carpals and phalanxes. We 
found the morphology of phalanxes near metacarpals and the total area of carpals are significant. 
I think these properties are valuable to making the computer assisted BAE system more efficient 
and fast.  
A physical pseudo force model has been proposed to describe the growth situations of 
carpals, too. Two categories of growth descriptors including normal and tangential displacement 
matrices are employed to depict the growth speed and direction of the carpals. To quantitatively 
identify the growth situations, the pseudo energies were proposed to describe the growth potential 
of each carpal bones varying with the age. Eventually, the growth status of carpals is not fully 
synchronized. These features should be valuable in pediatrics clinically. In addition, the model 
could generate synthetic carpal images with certain accuracy. 
The database effects were also considered in the study. Three kinds of database including 
GP (Americans), 2000 yr after (Taiwanese), and 1966 yr (Taiwanese, 4 decades ago) were 
employed to make a comparison. So far, there is no quantitative evidences could identify the 
differences between Taiwanese and American. Our result is the first to provide such evidence. It 
reveals some interesting phenomenon. The bone sequence (trapezium and trapezoid) is different 
between Taiwanese and American. In addition, there is simple growth retardation among the 
three databases. We found that the speed of growth is slowest in Database of 1966 yr but the 
retardation of bone maturity is about one year only with respect to GP standard. The study also 
found that the growth speed of female is faster than the male. The finding matches the GP, TW 
method, and most studies [2-12, 14-26, 31].  
From the viewpoint of generality, profundity, and completeness, the dissertation makes a lot 
of contributions to bone age study. However, there are still some topics not fully investigated. In 
the future, we hope to develop the growth model of the whole hand at each age extensively. In 
addition, a friendly graphic user interface system should be necessary to integrate the proposed 
BAE system and PACs system in DICOM platform for clinical purpose. We hope the 
fundamental medical supports of the research could promote the quality of Taiwanese life. 
Basically, the contributions of this study are summarized in the following statements. We 
proposed three fully automatic computerized BA (Phalanx BA, Carpal BA, and BA based on both 
Carpal and Phalanx) estimation systems and their correctness satisfies practical clinical tolerances 
of within 1.5 yrs. In addition, the computerized features of phalanxes and carpals are surveyed 
and some valuable medical information was obtained. Moreover, the comparison of Taiwanese 
GP and American GP were studied quantitatively the first time and the major differences between 
them were found. The preliminary results provide helpful information to the Health Bureau and 
could be used to improve the life quality of Taiwanese. We also proposed a carpal growth model 
based on a pseudo force assumption. This model could be used as a reference to recall, predict, 
and synthesize the carpal growth description. 
 
 24
prediction of adult height (TW3 Method). 3rd ed., Saunders, London. 
8. Molinari L, Gasser T, Largo RH (2004) Bone age: RUS/CB and gender differences of 
percentiles for score and score increments. Ann Hum Biol 31: 421-435.  
9. Aja-Fernandez S, de Luis-Garcia R, Martin-Fernandez MA, Alberola-Lopez C (2004) A 
computational TW3 classifier for skeletal maturity assessment. A computing with words 
approach. J Biomed Inf 37 (2): 99-107.  
10. Malina RM, Beunen GP (2002) Assessment of skeletal maturity and prediction of adult height 
(TW3 method). Am J Hum Biol 14 (6): 788-789.  
11. Ashizawa K, Kumakura C, Zhou X, Fin F, Cao J (2005) RUS skeletal maturity of children 
in Beijing. Ann Hum Bio 32 (3): 316-325. 
12. Tristan A, Arribas JI (2005) A radius and ulna skeletal age assessment system. Machine 
Learning for Signal Processing, IEEE Workshop: 221 – 226. 
13. Proos LA, Lonnerholm T, Jonsson B, Tuvemo T (2006) Can bone age determination provide 
criteria for growth hormone treatment in adopted girls with early puberty? A comparison of 
the Greulich-Pyle and the Tanner-Whitehouse 2 methods. Ups J Med Sci 111: 117-129. 
14. Milner GR, Levick RK, Kay R (1986) Assessment of bone ages: a comparison of the Greulich 
and Pyle, and the Tanner and Whitehouse methods. Clin Radiol 37: 119-212. 
15. Frisch H, Riedl S, Waldhor T (1996) Computer-aided estimation of skeletal age and 
comparison with bone age evaluations by the method of Greulich-Pyle and 
Tanner-Whitehouse. Pedia Radiol 26 (3): 226-231.  
16. King DG, Steventon DM, Osullivan MP, Cook AM, Hornsby VPL, Jefferson  IG, King 
PR(1994) Reproducibility of bone ages when performed by radiology registrars- an audit of 
Tanner-and-Whitehouse-II versus Greulich-and Pyle methods. Bri J Radiol 67 (801): 
848-851. 
17. Ryan PJ, Spector TP, Blake GM, Doyle DV, Fogelman I (1993) A comparison of reference 
bone-mineral density-measurements derived from 2 sources- referred and population-based. 
Bri J Radiol 66 (792): 1138-1141. 
18. Vignolo M, Milani S, Cerbrllo G (1992) FELS, Greulich-Pyle, and Tanner-Whitehouse 
bone-age assessments in a group of Italian children and adolescents. Am J Hum Biol 4 (4): 
493-500.  
19. Aicardi G, Vignolo M, Milani S, Naselli A, Magliano P, Garzia P (2000) Assessment of 
skeletal maturity of the hand-wrist and knee: a comparison among methods. Am J Hum Biol 
12 (5): 610-615.  
20. Bulla RK, Edwardsa PD, Kempb PM, Fryc S, Hughesc IA (1999) Bone age assessment: a 
large scale comparison of the Greulich and Pyle, and Tanner and Whitehouse (TW2) methods. 
Arch Dis Child 81: 172-173. 
21. Sato K, Mito T, Mitani H (2001) An accurate method of predicting mandibular growth 
potential based on bone maturity. Am J Orthod Dentofac Orthop 120: 286-293. 
22. Malina RM, Reyes MEP, Eisenmann JC, Horta L, Rodrigues J, Miller R (2000) Height, mass 
and skeletal maturity of elite Portuguese soccer players aged 11-16 years. J Sports Sci 18 (9): 
685-693.  
23. Mahmoodi S, Sharif BS, Chester EG, Owen JP, Lee R (2000) Skeletal growth estimation 
using radiographic image processing and analysis. IEEE T Inf Technol Biomed 4: 292-297. 
24. Mahmoodi S, Sharif BS, Chester EG, Owen JP, Lee R (1997) Automated vision system for 
skeletal age assessment using knowledge based techniques. IPA97 2: 809-813. 
25. Marques Da Silva AM, Delgado Olabarriaga S, Dietrich CA, Schmitz CAA (2001) On 
determining a signature for skeletal maturity. CGIP2001 Proceedings 246-251. 
26. Pietka E (1995) Computer-assisted bone age assessment based on features automatically 
extracted from a hand radiograph. Comp Med Imag Graph 19 (3): 251-259. 
27. Hsieh CW, Chu BC, Jong TL, Tiu CM (2005) Bone age classification using fuzzy concept 
with support vector machine neural network.12th International Conference on BioMedical 
Engineering (ICBME 2005), 1A4-05, Singapore, Singapore. 
28. Michael DJ, Nelson AC (1989) HANDX: a model-based system for automatic segmentation 
of bones from digital hand radiographs. IEEE Trans Med Imag 8 (1): 64-69. 
 26
53. Hsieh CW, Jong TL, Tiu CM (2003) The phalangeal morphological characteristics for bone 
age recognition. 13th IEEE-NPSS real time conference 2003, Montreal, Canada. 
54. Pietka E, Gertych A, Pospiech-Kurkowska S, Cao F, Huang HK, Gilzanz V (2004) 
Computer-assisted bone age assessment: graphical user interface for image processing and 
comparison. J Digit Imag 17: 175-188. 
55. Pietka E, Pospiech-Kurkowska S, Gertych A, Cao F (2003) Integration of computer assisted 
bone age assessment with clinical PACS.  Comput Med Imag Graph 27: 217-228.  
56. Cao F, Huang HK, Pietka E, Gilsanz V, Dey PS, Gertych A (2002) An image database for 
digital hand atlas and its application to other PACS-based CAD servers. Radiology 225: 
139-139.  
57. Cao F, Huang HK, Pietka E, and Gilsanz V (2000) Digital hand atlas and web-based bone age 
assessment: system design and implementation. Comp Med Imag Graph 24: 297-307. 
58. Wu CH (2006) Phalanxes analysis and selection based on correlation and regression analysis 
for bone age development. Master Thesis, EE NTHU. 
59. Hsieh CW, Jong TL, Tiu CM (2006) Computerized epiphysis analysis using Gabor Filter with 
neural network. ISBME2006 107-110, Bangkok. 
60. Hsieh CW, Chang CH, Jong TL, Tiu CM (2003) The phalanges ossified process enhancement 
and assessment for bone age estimation. WC2003, Sydney, Australia. 
61. Wu CH, Hsieh CW, Jong TL (2006) Phalanxes correlation study based on morphological 
statistics of ossification. CVGIP06: 875-877, Taoyuan.  
62. Hsieh CW, Jong TL, Tiu CM (2002) Skeleton age assessment using computerized 
phalanges-based morphological characteristics. Conf Bio Med Eng: D1-23, Kaohsiung. 
63. Chang CH, Hsieh CW, Jong TL, Tiu CM (2003) A fully automatic computerized bone age 
assessment procedure based on phalange ossification analysis. CVGIP03: 463-468, Kinmen. 
64. Hsieh CW, Jong TL, Chang CH, Chen CH, Tiu CM (2002) The phalanges-based 
morphological features for skeleton age assessments. CVGIP02: 729-733, Hsinchu. 
65. Fan BC (1999) Computerized bone age estimation using the carpal-bone images. Master 
Thesis, EE NTHU. 
66. Hsieh CW, Huang MJ, Jong TL (2006) Growth evaluation based on morphological 
description of carpals. IFMBE proc 14: 2212-2214. 
67. Huang MJ, Hsieh CW, Jong TL, Tiu CM (2006) The study of carpal bone age assessment 
based on fuzzy growth model. CVGIP2006: 519-524, Taoyuan.  
68. Hsieh CW, Jong TL, Tiu CM (2006) The preliminary survey of relative position of carpals 
versus chronological age in pediatrics. ISOBME06, Taipei. 
69. J. Liu, J. Qi, Z. Liu, Q. Ning, X. Luo. “Automatic bone age assessment based on intelligent 
algorithms and comparison with TW3 method,” Computerized Medical Imaging and 
Graphics, vol.32, pp. 678–684, 2008. 
70. A. Zhang, A. Gertych, B. J. Liu. “Automatic bone age assessment for young children from 
newborn to 7-year-old using carpal bones,” Computerized Medical Imaging and Graphics, 
vol.31, pp. 299–310, 2007. 
71. M. M. Á., C. Rubén, M. Emma, de L. Rodrigo, M. Marcos, A. Carlos. “Automatic articulated 
registration of hand radiographs,” vol.27, pp. 1207–1222, 2009. 
72. Thodberg  HH,  Kreiborg  S,  Juul  A,  Pedersen  KD  (2009)  The BoneXpert 
method for automated determination of skeletal maturity. IEEE Trans Med Imaging 28:52–66. 
 
 
計畫效果自評： 
 
    本計畫執行結果與計畫書內容大致符合。目前計有五篇國際研討會論文發表和一篇SCI
期刊發表和5篇SCI期刊審查中，另有一篇US 專利通過。 
 
會議參與過程： 
6/11: 自嘉義前往桃園機場，先轉機到香港，再搭機到北京，到達北京時，已近
晚上 7點，第一天大會沒有安排會程。 
6/12：北京會場，早上主要是 keynote speech. 計有： 
Development, characterization and optimization of digital imaging techniques for 
cancer diagnosis, Prof. Hong Liu, Oklahoma University, USA 
Unravel secrets in biological membrane by NMR spectroscopy, Prof. James J. Chou, 
Harvard Medical School, USA 
Systematic Bioinformatics Study in Proteomics, Prof. Fuchu HE, Chinese Academy 
of 
Sciences, China 
An informatics approach to evaluate the scientific impact of researchers, Prof. 
Chun-Ting Zhang, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China 
下午行程有： 
Constrained Imaging: Getting More with Less?, Prof. Zhi-Pei LIANG, IEEE 
Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society, USA; University of Illinois, USA 
Computational analyses of transcriptional regulatory regions in tunicates, Prof. 
Kenta Nakai, University of Tokyo, Japan 
Crystallization propensity of protein chains, Prof. Lukasz A. Kurgan, University of 
Alberta, Canada 
Individualized Therapy- A generic approach applied to mechanical ventilation 
support, Prof. Knut Moeller, Furtwangen University, Germany 
與會的人員非常多，接近 600 人，演講的重點包含面極廣，有基因，蛋白質一直
延伸到影像處理等技術。令我印象很深刻的是，有關科學研究者的 impact factor
的計算涵義與其他論點的報告，顯然的，中國和台灣一樣，對於 SCI IF 有者許
多贊同或反對與其他評估指標的想法。我想也許會有更多有關研究指標的客觀指
標會被提出。 
6/13：北京會場 上午主要參加 Biomedical Imaging, Image Processing & 
Visualization 的場次，其中印象較為深刻或與自身相關的研究關聯度較高的有 
Segmentation of Lung region for chest X-ray images based on medical registration 
and ASM 
CW Detection of Weakly Scattered Light for Transillumination Imaging of Thick 
Body Part 
Extended Normalized Mutual Information for Lung SPECT - CT Registration 
Improved T-Snake Model Based Edge Detection of the Coronary Arterial Walls in 
Intravascular Ultrasound Images 
Utilization of Spatial Coherence in Functional Neuroimage-based Classification  
 2
