2 TENG-WEN CHANG, CHING-JUNG LIN 
EXPLORING INTENDED IMPLICATE SOLUTION 
--from searching through discrete continuous design graph 
TENG-WEN CHANG, CHING-JUNG LIN 
Graduate School of Computational Design 
National Yunlin University of Science and Technology 
123 University Road, Section 3,  
Douliou, Yunlin 64002, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
tengwen.chang@gmail.com, racoolhinet@gmamail.com 
Abstract. Design is an iterative exploration process that will invoke 
many fragmented information with continuous iteration. While 
fragmented, implicit information lay among these fragmented pieces 
has shown more potential to achieve some goals that we might skip 
during the decision making. These potential design goals named 
implicit intended solution is the problem spaces we want to explore in 
this research. Therefore, the continuous thinking/operation process 
cross these fragmented design decision might show some insights for 
discovering implicit intended solutions. As two folds of this problem, 
without exploration and its continuous iteration characteristics, these 
solutions might not even be found or possible found. Therefore, in this 
paper we have conducted a research from visualizing these implicit 
intended solutions as well the exploration process for finding them. 
Keywords. Design diagrams; discrete continuity; design process; 
folding space; design process visualization. 
1. Background 
Design is an iterative exploration process that will invoke many fragmented 
information with continuous iteration. While fragmented, implicit 
information lay among these fragmented pieces has shown more potential to 
achieve some goals that we might skip during the decision making. These 
potential design goals named implicit intended solution is the problem 
spaces we want to explore in this research. Therefore, the continuous 
thinking/operation process cross these fragmented design decision 
might show some insights for discovering implicit intended solutions. 
As two folds of this problem, without exploration and its continuous 
iteration characteristics, these solutions might not even be found or 
4 TENG-WEN CHANG, CHING-JUNG LIN 
Three main characteristics of design process diagrams above: 1) strong 
design knowledge relation: the diagrams while representing the design have 
strong connection with the design knowledge as well as the solution from the 
knowledge; 2) structured description with visual: the syntax as well as 
semantic can be adopt with ease since the organization of diagrams is 
structured with sequential reasoning capability; 3) direct visualization with 
design: since the diagrams often are from the sketches draw by the designers, 
the visualization is direct and strongly related to the outcome of design. 
Furthermore, while the processes among these diagrams are continuous, 
the visualization of these diagrams is discrete because of the nature of static 
diagrams. Therefore, a dynamic and continuous representation over these 
diagrams or so called discrete continuous design diagrams is desired for the 
purposes of exploring implicit intended solutions. 
1.2. CONTINUOUS EXPLORATION 
Diagrams described above contain the discrete operations. We need to find 
some continuous operations cross the design process diagrams in order to 
provide essential operations. In architectural or similar design domain, 
folding (Lynn 1999) operation is often used to investigate the continuous 
form and their consequence can be adapted for the purpose of continuous 
operation cross discrete design diagrams. With the diagrams shown by Peter 
Eisenman and other architects, the folding can also be represented by the 
modeling operations with sequential diagrams (Eisenman 1999) (shown in 
Figure 2). Also, the comprehensive diagrams published by Eisenman 
(Eisenman 1999) with folding operations provide essential first-hand design 
information for this research. 
 
Figure 2: Diagram of Emory Arts Center 
Furthermore, the folding inspired by Computational Origami (Andersen 
2002) provides the mathematical foundation for 3D diagrams representation 
as well as the continuous media—time-based media that is used for our 
conceptual metaphor of our design graph. 
6 TENG-WEN CHANG, CHING-JUNG LIN 
mostly relevant; one is to comparison of transformation within single model, 
another is further using stage to divide the timeline into several timelines. 
3.1. DIFFERENCE AND COMPARISON OF MULTIPLE INFORMATION 
MODEL IN A SINGLE MODEL 
(Dionisio and Cárdenas 1998) presents a unified data model for representing 
multimedia, timeline over huge medical data: thoracic oncology and thermal 
ablation therapy of brain tumors. Multimedia data represent the illness 
process and associated information.  
Timelines are used for comparing different medical models and their 
experiments shown at the same timeframe. Time-based representation 
provides immediate feedbacks for the differences in different time and 
different models. With timelines cross multi-dimensional data, the relations 
and the nature of process is clear and give designers strong visual feedbacks. 
 
Figure 3: A sample timeline that merges radiological images, reports, and graphs into a 
single overall view of a given patient. 
3.2. MULTIPLE STAGES CONTAINING MULTIPLE TIMELINES 
(Girgensohn, et al. 2006) tackles the issues of multiple video streams in 
different locations. Multiple events appear in the same time are represented 
as multiple video streams in a single window. Timeline is used for 
controlling the time. Therefore, in this case, only one timeline but multiple 
outcomes from that single time slot. Each outcome can be multi-dimensional 
information in different stage (location). Time-base representation in this 
case is for comparison of models in different location in the same time frame. 
 
8 TENG-WEN CHANG, CHING-JUNG LIN 
When most of diagrams are connected as a continuous animation, the 
possibility for finding implicit intended solutions are explored in three 
direction graphically 1) possible alternatives of each vertex provide 
horizontal dimensional exploration; 2) one vertex to next vertex provides 
vertical exploration; 3) the path from one vertex to another vertex in the 
graph provides a sequential representation and recording mechanism on the 
form transformation process. For analysis purpose, we lay the form 
transformation diagrams from Eisenman in the middle of graph, then, 
expanding the graph vertically and horizontally. Starting by discrete decision 
such as the degree of folding, each decision making as the simulation of 
designing is recorded and generated. After expanding the graph, exploring 
the implicit intended solution is then conduced. An example is shown as 
Figure 6. 
 
Figure 6: continuous form transformation realized in a derivation like graph 
4.2 TIMELINE—A PATH  
 
Figure 7: A continuous form transformation process of Emory Arts Center 
Base on the time-based media simulation with graph structure analysis over 
several similar cases, we observed five phenomena: 1) once discrete design 
decisions are made, the continuous operation can generate detailed different 
10 TENG-WEN CHANG, CHING-JUNG LIN 
Figure 8: Time-based exploration simulation 
Following the graph shown in Figure 7, vertical and horizontal transitions 
are two key factors for time-based media, thus we can use these two factors 
as the exploration operation for finding possible solutions and further the 
implicit intended solutions. While designers select different vertex in 
different path can be used to generate different path comparison for different 
time layers and further provides visual feedback. 
6. Discussion and Conclusion 
Design iteration is important. Recording the process of design iteration 
provides further information for discovering the implicit intended solution 
among discrete design decision making. Time-based media or just time-
based factor provides a way to represent the continuous design activities and 
the thinking process in the derivation. Visual feedback let designers to 
clarify their design concepts and can be the point of decision-making 
becomes easier to find. 
The designer may be left out possible solution, when they in the 
intermittent of the design process. Through the development of the 
animation record of the design process we can know the decision-making 
12 TENG-WEN CHANG, CHING-JUNG LIN 
參考文獻 
1. Braha, D. and O. Maimon, A Mathematical Theory of Design: 
Foundations, Algorithms and Applications. 1998, Boston: 
Kluwer. 708. 
2. Chang, T.-W., Geometric typed feature structures : toward 
design space exploration, in School of Architecture 1999, 
University of Adelaide: Australia. 
3. Chang, T.-W., A sutdy of Applying Time-based Design Model 
on Representing Continuous Form Transformation. 2008, 
National Science Council Taipei. 
4. Chang, W.-T., A Folding Operation on Architedtural Form, in 
Graduate School of Computational Design. 2006, National 
Yunlin University Science & Technology: Taiwan. p. 132. 
5. Ching, F., Architecture: Form, Space, and Order 2nd ed. 1996: 
Wiley. 
6. Corbusier, F.L., Le Corbusier sketchbooks MIT Press. 1981: 
New York. 
7. Curtis, W.J.R., Le Corbusier: ideas and forms. 1986: Rizzoli. 
8. Dionisio, J.D.N. and A.F. Cárdenas, A Unified Data Model for 
Representing Multimedia, Timeline, and Simulation Data. IEEE 
TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, 
1998. 10(5): p. 746-765. 
9. Eisenman, P., Peter Eisenman Diagram Diaries. 1999: Universe 
Publishing. 240. 
10. Eisenman, P., Blurred Zones: Investigations of the Interstitial : 
Eisenman Architects 1988-1998. 2003: Monacelli 336. 
11. Flemming, U., More than the sum of parts: the grammar of 
Queen Anne houses. Environment and Planning B: Planning 
and Design, 1987. 14: p. 323-350. 
12. Gandelsonas, M., The Urban Text. 1991: MIT Press. 
13. Girgensohn, A., et al. Support for Effective Use of Multiple 
Video Streams in Security. in International Multimedia 
Conference. 2006. Santa Barbara, California, USA  
14. Hersey, G. and R. Freedman, Possible palladian villas: Plus a 
few instructively impossible ones. 1992: MIT Press. 
14 TENG-WEN CHANG, CHING-JUNG LIN 
29. Woodbury, R., Search for Design: Paradigm and Practice. 
Building and Environment, 1991. 26(1): p. 61-73. 
30. Woodbury, R., Exploring large space od building designs., 
A.A.R.C.l.g. proposal., Editor. 1996. 
 
 
 
  
16 TENG-WEN CHANG, CHING-JUNG LIN 
表現多重時間軸也適用於形體設計的視覺化方式，並且將設計的步
驟過程做詳盡的記錄，導出設計的概念示意圖。 
 
『看、動、看』的設計行為運用於連續與斷續的設計過程當中，加
入時間的輔助，讓形體的發展的可能性多元化且設計師可觀察的較
完整。連續與斷續的觀察行為差別在於，連續是藉由時間軸所產生
連續過程觀察，進而產生決策；而斷續沒有連續過程，因此斷續的
觀察是藉由兩個節點的比較形成決策，多重時間軸所帶來的比較觀
察功能，讓設計師在判斷形體發展上的決策是有助益的。 
 
6) 研究成果除發表在多篇領域中嚴謹之國外研討會外，更持續發表相
關期刊。 
 
draw and demonstrate drawing based rapid idea generation & decision-making 
techniques. And you’ll practice drawing! 
 
Read full description of Scribble your way to success! 
 
1.4 The Usability Kit workshop by Daniel Szuc and Gerry Gaffney  
This full-day workshop will give you with the UX tools you need to embed in your 
projects to ensure that Usability (and User Centered Design thinking) is being 
implemented at all stages. 
Read full description of The Usability Kit workshop 
2 August 27 開始主要的論文發表，共分 AB 兩場，詳細的名單如下： 
UX Australia 2009 presentations: A-Z 
2.1 101 things I (should have) learned in interaction design school Shane 
Morris, Matt Morphett  
‚101 Things I Learned in Architecture School‛ by Matthew Frederick delivers practical, 
experience-based advice to architects. Where’s our equivalent? Where is ‚101 I learned 
in Interaction Design School‛? Well, let’s get started. You nominate a number from 1 
to 101. I translate that architecture principle into an interaction design principle. If I can’t, 
then you get a go. 
Full description and slides for 101 things I (should have) learned in interaction design 
school 
2.2 truths and a lie – confessions of a UX startup (10-minute talk) Sam Ng  
UX consultants can be great at giving others advice – but how many of us truly live by 
what we preach? Sam Ng presents 3 truths and a lie about employing UX in building a 
software as a service company. 
Full description and slides for 3 truths and a lie – confessions of a UX startup (10-minute 
talk) 
2.3 Automotive HMI: Building or breaking the brand experience (10-minute 
talk) Drew Smith  
A brief overview of how car makers are either supporting or sabotaging their precious 
brand image through HMI design. 
What are the component techniques we mix and match in the analysis of our design 
research? How are they used and combined to effectively meet research objectives? 
Full description and slides for Deconstructing analysis techniques (10-minute talk) 
2.8 Design games (10-minute talk) 
Donna Spencer  
Playing games is more fun than work, right? So if we can combine games and work, work 
will be fun. Design games can help you learn about your users, or help a design team 
generate better solutions. 
Full description and slides for Design games (10-minute talk) 
2.9 Design rationale, content quality and UX integrity 
David More  
Good content is essential to good user experiences, and to making good information 
architecture work. 
I’ll highlight two ways to include content quality in the scope of UX: involving content 
owners in a Delphi-like review of website (or intranet) structure; and delivering practical 
writing specifications to help subject-matter experts produce useful content – even if 
they’re not natural communicators. 
Full description and slides for Design rationale, content quality and UX integrity 
2.10 Designing for multitouch, and multiple touchpoints 
Shane Morris  
In this ‘warts and all’ case study we’ll report on a project to design a multi-touch 
gestural and tangible user interface for a retail store. How do you design a UI that bridges 
the physical and the virtual? We will cover the challenges of designing for gestural and 
tangible users interfaces, including design for 360 degrees and simultaneous control.  
Full description and slides for Designing for multitouch, and multiple touchpoints 
2.11 Different mobile user experiences of twitter on the iPhone by @oliverw & 
@jamesshunter 
2.14 Experience visions: A case study 
Fred Randell  
When tasked with creating the online user experience for one of Australia’s largest 
companies, how do you tackle the challenges of scale, buy-in from a multitude of disparate 
business units, and a strategic direction that represents a fundamental shift in the 
company’s philosophical and operational principles? Using an Experience Vision? Sure, 
that’ll work. 
Full description and slides for Experience visions: A case study 
2.15 FAIL (10-minute talk) 
Oliver Weidlich  
Let’s talk about examples of really bad UI/UX design collated from around the 
web/mobile/software/etc. Everyone can email me their favourite bad examples in the lead 
up to the conference and I’ll collate and host. 
Full description and slides for FAIL (10-minute talk) 
2.16 Flying high: User experiences on the Qantas A380 
Lisa Herrod  
The Airbus A380 is the flagship aircraft of Qantas. Despite a significant budget being 
allocated to the design of the in-flight entertainment (IFE) system, it already appears to be 
outdated and in need of a refresh. Looking to current models of interaction, this 
presentation discusses the uxd history of the A380 IFE and examines what went wrong and 
why. 
Full description and slides for Flying high: User experiences on the Qantas A380 
2.17 Getting starting in the user experience field (10-minute talk) 
Caronne Carruthers-Taylor  
You might want to know more about the User Experience field. You might be interested in 
finding out what resources, skills and abilities are relevant. You might just want to see a 
passionate UX professional give a 10 minute overview on how to get started! 
Itsme is an on-going project that aims to design and develop the next generation 
workstations based on a radically new metaphor called ‘Stories and Venues’. This 
presentation reveals a step by step activity focused on defining and developing both the 
interaction paradigms for ITSME and its interfaces. 
Full description and slides for Itsme: Beyond the desktop metaphor 
2.22 Ka-chunk! When customer experience design fails and how to avoid it 
Joel Flom  
We’ve all heard it. Customer experience should consistently engage a customer across all 
touch points. This utopian vision speaks to our souls and warms our empathetic hearts… it 
can also fry the mind. This talk will highlight the challenges of creating an integrated 
customer experience, then share practical models and techniques that help break it down to 
size–interaction by interaction.  
Full description and slides for Ka-chunk! When customer experience design fails and how 
to avoid it 
2.23 Making COTS information management products usable 
Nigel Carruthers-Taylor, Matt Bayliss  
Commercial off the shelf (COTS) products don’t often lend themselves to customisation. 
And when they do, the customisation tends to be driven by feature-level requests. User 
needs, if they’re considered at all, come in a distant last. So to see a COTS product 
turned into an engine for a user-centric solution is a rare and beautiful thing… 
Full description and slides for Making COTS information management products usable 
2.24 Making light work of data: Improving the UX of data-rich interfaces 
Stephen Hall  
User Experience designers and Information Architects are more and more likely to be 
dealing regularly with the challenges of rich data presentation. This talk examines some 
approaches to the analysis and presentation of rich data sets on the web. Drawing on the 
presenter’s own direct experiences from large scale projects in the pharmaceutical, 
educational, aged care and consumer advocacy sectors, it will discuss tools and techniques 
Last year (at Edge of the Web) Donna Spencer presented her UX Equaliser as a conceptual 
tool. 10 months later from the mindmeld of the Perth UX community, after testing, 
iterations, we have the next step in the UX Equaliser’s evolution. Did it work, is it the 
next big thing or just a silly idea? 
Full description and slides for Redux on Donna Spencer’s UX equaliser (10-minute talk) 
2.29 Selling UX 
Daniel Szuc  
We need to sell UX but not all organizations have the same level of interest and 
receptiveness to UX. Some just don’t care. What should we know about an organization 
that will help us sell UX more effectively? What questions should we ask about 
organizations, its people and its culture? What can we learn from organizations where UX 
has become part of the DNA? What factors can increase our chances of promoting UX 
successfully now and in the future? We will tap into more than 10 years of experience in 
selling UX and share the successes, pitfalls and failures. 
Full description and slides for Selling UX 
2.30 Social interaction design of social media with RIA case studies 
William Evans  
To design an interaction you must commit to writing a narrative of human behavior 
mediated through time and space. Immersive Social Media sites, because they are built on 
the collective participation of individuals, can only be effectively guided by means of a 
researched and learned examination of social psychology. It is the interaction and interface 
designer’s job to understand how social media ecosystems are likely to evolve, given the 
rich power of Ajax and Flex to creative immersive experiences with users. 
Full description and slides for Social interaction design of social media with RIA case 
studies 
2.31 The new digital ethnographer’s toolkit: Capturing a participant’s lifestream 
Christopher Khalil  
In this talk, Dr Chris Khalil of News Digital Media (NDM) will explain how NDM are 
using an innovative web/mobile based approach to Cultural Probes (digital scrapbooks) 
We’ve found that by turning video into visualisations it’s easier to compare different 
videos. When we have visualistions that ‚sit [...] 
Full description and slides for Visualisations of video: Nursing activity and expertise 
2.36 Visualising the user experience: Building early engagement with design 
concepts through enriched storytelling 
Darren Menachemson  
Design visualisations are information products that communicate how new products or 
services will work. The way they do this is by showing the new product or service in 
action, using a combination of text and pictures to tell the story of the future user 
experience. Design visualisations can stand alone as documents, but are often presented to 
audiences for the purpose of communication, consultation or (most usefully) design 
collaboration. 
Full description and slides for Visualising the user experience: Building early engagement 
with design concepts through enriched storytelling 
2.37 What is an experience strategy? (10-minute talk) 
Steve Baty  
We often discuss the need to be designing for an experience. And we talk about the 
importance of experience design – and design generally – playing a strategic role in 
business decisions. But we’re less forthcoming when it comes to discussing what is an 
experience strategy? 
Full description and slides for What is an experience strategy? (10-minute talk) 
2.38 What makes us trust online? (10-minute talk) 
Ash Donaldson  
In person, we use body language, voice, tone, pitch and intonation to judge weather we 
trust others. But how do we create trust online? We’ll explore why we trust and how best 
to convey it on the web. 
Full description and slides for What makes us trust online? (10-minute talk) 
