2 
 
owns specific attributes, such as telecommunication, highly mobility, and medical care. Based 
on our preliminary survey and evaluation, some innovative software applications can support 
mobile nursing carts (MNC) for nurses, handheld devices for physicians, hospice care for 
terminal cancer patients and home care devices for chronic diabetic patients. We found that 
software defined radio (SDR) is a feasible solution and can be implemented for handling the 
physical layer of the multi-wireless communication standards. Inside this sub-project, we 
focus on the common wireless communication standards, such as 802.11g, GSM, and 3G. In 
order to support a seamless continuous wireless supplement scenario to avoid the puzzles 
from data access through the weak wireless signals or disconnection, we install a 
plug-and-play SDR on the hospice MNCs and physician’s handheld devices under a 
heterogeneous wireless communication environment. On the other hand, this sub-project can 
be as well adopted in the chronic home care environment. Because some chronic patients also 
own high mobility, we utilize the global position system (GPS) function in the SDR device to 
locate the positions of home care visiting members, even patients. Meanwhile, our system can 
exchange related biomedical signals of patients with related health care institutes during the 
home care period. Such a data preparation lets medical team realize specific patient health 
status from exchanged data before the patient visits the hospital. Patients can also hold a video 
conference for consulting the case managers with analyzing process. We believe that home 
care can save more inpatient resources and patients can obtain more health care. The core 
services of this sub-project include ubiquitous seamless MNC (u-SMNC), cloud adaptive 
reasoning and learning framework (C-ARALF), ubiquitous home-visit bag with GPS 
(u-HVB/GPS), and ubiquitous tele-health and tele-consulting service (u-TH+TC). These 
services utilize the computation power of SDR. Meanwhile, C-ARALF is improved from the 
original ARALF concepts and includes the emerging cloud computing with a Petri Net 
mechanism.  
 
1.2  Sub-project 2 (PI: Bor-Shing Lin): System and MAC Layer Design in a CR 
Platform  
Along with the progress of communication and biological technologies, and the global 
aging phenomenon, ubiquitous tele-care has become an inevitable trend. After passing 
through many preliminary interviews and appraisals with medical staffs, we propose a 
cognitive radio (CR) platform for mobile health-care. Aiming at a project that the most 
medical staffs need, we will design a ubiquitous seamless mobile nursing cart (u-SMNC), a 
ubiquitous home visit bag with a global position system (u-HVB/GPS), a ubiquitous 
tele-health and tele-consulting service (u-TH+TC) and so on systems. In the above systems, 
the most important issue is to keep communication channel unimpeded.  
In this sub-project, we establish a CR platform built on an embedded system to realize 
physical layer processing in multiple wireless communication standards and to provide 
4 
 
or becomes noisy, CR device will switch, with an efficient strategy, to a different standard to 
access the available spectrum. Therefore, the ideal healthcare terminal requires a powerful 
spectrum management device which can detect the environment efficiently and adapt itself to 
various scenarios to fit the local radio environment. The device can allocate the available 
spectrum as soon as possible with innovative strategy and fully programmable to switch the 
parameters, therefore maintain a stable high-quality communication regardless the 
environment changes.  
Therefore, healthcare system shall be able to connect through various wireless 
communication standards such as the global system for mobile communication (GSM), the 
wideband code division multi-user access (WCDMA), the wireless local area network 
(WLAN) 802.11a/b/g, or the worldwide interoperability for microwave access (WiMAX). 
Moreover, pieces of hardware, i.e., ASIC, can only support very limited transmission 
parameters and is more suitable to serve as computation accelerator while SDR (the 2nd level 
of CR) is fully programmable and more powerful reasoning strategy can be applied that 
enables SDR to be more robust communication platform. 
Our goal is set to implement a fully programmable SDR platform and extend the ARALF 
into C-ARALF and to integrate the programmable SDR and the C-ARALF into a CR platform 
for Sub-project 1 to use. 
 
1.4  Sub-project 4 (PI: Chu Yu): SDR Baseband Design in a CR Platform. 
   Software-Define Radio (SDR) provides a feasible solution for processing the physical 
layer of multi-standard wireless communications. However, the mobile devices of 
implementing these standards often require a high-end DSP processor to achieve a high-speed 
physical layer in real time. In this sub-project, we construct a design platform for wireless 
communications in SDR. This design platform will apply heterogeneous wireless 
communications in an integrated medical-care system. Moreover, to reduce power 
consumption and hardware cost, the hardware designed in this sub-project is focused on the 
cores that require intensive computation, such as, FFT, Viterbi decoder, turbo code, low 
density parity check (LDPC), and Reed Solomon decoder. Provided with these cores, the 
physical layer can be processed in real time. Our proposed FFT will be a variable-length 
design entity, and the other three decoders with error correction be designed as a 
reconfigurable multimode FEC decoder. The remaining physical layer works can then be 
executed by the Rigel DSP accelerator designed in Sub-project 3.  
As described above, our plan is to accomplish the design of a variable-length FFT and a 
turbo code in the first year. Also, we need to perform this work in collaboration with the MAC 
design in Sub-project 2. In the future two year, our sub-project will design an LDPC and a 
reconfigurable multimode FEC decoders. In this year, we also collaborate closely with 
Sub-project, and complete the Reed-Solomon chip design as well as the integration with other 
6 
 
platform will provide seamless wireless communication between 802.11g and GSM/3G 
communications. 
For the CR platform, we use the dual-core Beagleboard-xM development platform 
involved DSP that can improve the performances of signal processing, and install the Android 
2.2 real-time operating system to provide a GUI operating environment. For the middleware, 
we have designed and implemented five functional modules, including Communication Agent, 
Wireless Signal Detection, Multi-Channel Switching Algorithm, Channel Switching and Data 
Transmission. Communication Agent is the main management module which is responsible to 
provide the necessary interface for the application layer, thus the system can provide a 
seamless communication. Wireless Signal Detection module can detect the radio strength, and 
then send the strength information to other related modules. Multi-Channel Switching 
Algorithm decides the best wireless communication channel according to each radio strength. 
Channel Switching module acts for switching the wireless communication channels. 
Eventually, Data Transmission module transfers the data to achieve seamless wireless 
communications in heterogeneous wireless communication environments. 
2.3  Summary of Results Obtained in Sub-project 3 
The most direct way for SDR is to implement it on a DSP (Digital Signal Processor). 
Some previous research has tried to implement the inner receiver of 802.16d on the 
TMS320C6416 DSP of Texas Instruments. But since 802.16d is mostly used by base-station, 
so the issue of multi-users has to be taken into consideration. And most traditional DSP is not 
able to process massive data at a time, so a better solution is needed. So we use a different yet 
more suitable platform, GPU, for the implementation of the synchronizer for base-station. The 
reason of choosing GPU is because its multi-core characteristic grants highly parallel 
computing power, which is just what we need when it comes to handle the multi-user issue. 
Furthermore, GPU provides great flexibility when combined with CUDA (Compute Unified 
Device Architecture), and this can be easily manipulated via a variety of industry standard 
programming languages, with the help of CUDA-specific functions, so base-stations can 
effortlessly replace their traditional DSPs with powerful GPUs as the platforms of SDR. 
In this first year, we consider the software implementation of an IEEE 802.16d baseband 
synchronizer for base-station on GPU. The synchronizer is the most important part of an inner 
receiver, which mainly deals with CFO (Clock Frequency Offset) and SCO (Sampling Clock 
Offset), exactly in which the GPU’s highly paralleling processing power can take part, with 
the aim of meeting real-time data processing requirement. 
2.4  Summary of Results Obtained in Sub-project 4 
Nowadays, one of hot techniques in wireless communication is Orthogonal Frequency 
Division Multiplexing (OFDM), which is often used in the wireless communication standards 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/06/01
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 總計畫(1/3)
計畫主持人: 陳少傑
計畫編號: 99-2220-E-002-037- 學門領域: 晶片科技計畫--整合型學術研究
計畫
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
國際合作 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
