 2
摘要 
    薄管件在實施縮口沖壓成形時，過大
的環向壓應力極易造成縮口端的失穩起皺
與破裂。若改採以旋鍛法加工，則管件主
要承受徑向壓力的作用，環向與軸向的壓
縮應力降低，則可改善薄管件縮口沖壓時
的皺褶與破裂缺陷，以及管身發生挫曲的
現象。本提案應用單道次旋鍛之階差縮徑
成形，來代替傳統多道次縮口沖壓法，應
用複合導圓角的設計，在模具的入口端設
計為凹型，使工件的肩部以較小的角度進
入成形區，而在接續模具的直部設計為凸
型，可使工件再以較小的角度進入定寸
區，以成形頸部，以實現減少模具套數、
調校、維修、管理與節省退火處理等目的。 
關鍵詞：旋鍛成形、縮口、皺褶、金屬成
形。 
 
Abstract 
Thin tubes are prone to wrinkle or 
fracture when subjected to excessive 
circumferential compressive stress. These 
defects as well as the buckling on the tube 
body can be avoided by sinking with rotary 
swaging, because the primary stress mode is 
radial compression and the circumferential 
and axial compressions are reduced. This 
proposal aims to apply one-pass rotary 
swaging for stepped workpiece to replace the 
conventional multi-pass stamping with 
necking dies. Hybrid fillets will be applied in 
the die design with a concave fillet at the 
entrance to facilitate the metal flow of the 
workpiece shoulder, and a convex fillet near 
the die land to facilitate the metal flow of its 
neck with less included angle. With the 
rotary swaging process, the expense of the 
dies manufacture, adjustments, maintenance, 
management and heat treatment can be 
tremendously saved. 
Keywords: Rotary Swaging, Sinking, 
Wrinkling, Metal Forming. 
 
一、前言 
    縮口成形的最新大宗應用，便是二件
式旋蓋鋁罐的縮口加工。日本在 2000 年左
右開始使用有罐蓋的鋁製飲料罐，由於此
型式的飲料包裝可延長保存未飲用完的啤
酒、茶葉、咖啡等飲品的風味，而且廢鋁
罐易於加工再生成為鋁錠，再製成鋁罐，
是一種非常環保之容器材質，因此有旋蓋
的鋁製飲料罐也逐漸成為鋁製飲料容器的
主要包裝法。然而二件式旋蓋鋁罐的成形
製程是將鋁板（板厚 0.325～0.400 mm）以
深引伸/引縮為直筒後，再於筒口進行 3 道
縮口成形，雖然成本低但是成形難度較
高，其原因在於薄管縮口成形時，更容易
發生端口的失穩起皺與破裂缺陷[1]。  
 
二、緣由與目的 
縮口（Sinking）成形是將管件或是深
引伸後的圓筒件，於其開口端進行擠壓以
縮小口徑的沖壓製程[2]，圖 1 為此縮口沖
壓模具的示意圖。在縮口成形時，工件處
於三向受壓狀態，此對板材而言極易造成
皺褶與挫曲，因此縮口沖壓在先天上便不
是一個理想的製程。其最主要是受環向
（circumferential; hoop）壓縮應力的作用，
而造成口徑縮小，以及壁厚與管口長度的
增加，此環向壓應力過大時，極易造成縮
口端的失穩起皺與破裂（wrinkling and 
fracture）；過大的軸向負荷則會造成管件
頸部的軸向挫曲，而在非變形區的管身則
由於承受全體的軸向縮口壓力，則必須置
於套環內抱持，以避免管身發生挫曲。 
 
圖 1. 縮口沖壓示意圖 
 
旋轉式型鍛成形（rotary swaging）簡
稱為旋鍛，常應用於管件的縮徑加工，特
別是具有多重階差的汽車零件，以旋鍛成
形法來加工特別簡易且有效率。以旋鍛法
加工時，工件主要承受徑向壓力的作用，
環向與軸向的壓縮應力則遠少於縮口沖壓
 4
    經 DEFORM-3D 所得之等效應力及皺
褶情形分佈形態如圖 6 至圖 11 所示，模擬
條件分別為兩片式、三片式及四片式鍛鎚
塊在相同的直徑 66mm 的瓶胚，由於在模
具傾角 30°時，在不同鎚塊數鍛打下皆會產
生起皺的情形，因此也將模具傾角 15°列入
模擬參數範圍，並且針對起皺情形做探討
分析。 
 
4.1 模具傾角在 30°之影響 
    圖 6 為兩片式鍛鎚且在模具傾角為 30
度時之等效應力分布和皺摺情形。由圖可
知在工件在成形時主要承受徑向壓力的作
用下，胚料的流動僅在模具開合處時會往
軸向流動，其餘皆往徑向流動，往軸方向
流動時會因為徑向的壓力不足而容易產生
皺摺的情形，然而旋鍛本身亦會旋轉，一
旦有皺褶面產生在型鍛模交會處，此皺褶
再經下一次鍛打後會消除，不過由於板厚
與直徑比過小，加上模具傾角過大成形時
仍有皺摺的情形產生。 
 
 
圖 6. 兩片式鍛鎚成形結果 
 
    圖 7 為三片式鍛鎚且在模具傾角為 30
°時之等效應力分布和皺摺情形。如圖可知
由於三片式鎚塊在做鎚打時，在徑向應力
方面不屬於對稱的情況下，成形的結果產
生的皺摺情形相當明顯，並且胚料在模具
傾角部分也產生皺摺的情形產生。然而旋
鍛在鍛打時胚料與模具的接觸為部分的面
接觸，在兩片式的鎚塊時會因接觸範圍較
大，胚料所受到的徑向壓力較為均勻，隨
著鎚塊數的增加會因為接觸範圍小，因而
造成起皺的情形較嚴重。 
 
 
 
 
圖 7. 三片式鍛鎚成形結果 
 
     
    圖 8 為四片式鍛鎚且在模具傾角為 30
°時之等效應力分布和皺摺情形。如圖可得
知薄壁管材在經由旋鍛的加工時，會明顯
的因鎚塊數的增加，而造成的起皺情形越
來越嚴重，並且在非模具開合處產生皺摺
的情形更為顯著，如圖可顯示出薄壁管材
當胚料在鍛打時，若受到的徑向壓力環抱
不足時，易產生皺摺的情況。 
 
 
 6
parameters in radial forging using an upper 
bound solution, Journal of Materials Processing 
Technology 186 (2007) 147-153. 
[10]  T.C. Tseng, S. Kobayashi, Determination of 
residual stresses in radial forging,Manufacturing 
Process Simulation 1986; PED-20:31-45. 
[11]  J.P. Domblesky, R. Shivpuri, B. Painter, 
Application of the finite-element method to the 
radial forging of large diameter tubes, Journal of 
Materials Processing Technology 49 (1995) 
57-74. 
[12]  A. Ghaei, A.K. Taheri, M.R. Movahhedy, A new 
upper bound solution for analysis of the radial 
forging process, International Journal of 
Mechanical Science 48 (2006) 1264-1272. 
 
六、計畫成果自評 
    主要發現薄壁管材在旋鍛的縮口加工
時，模具鍛鎚數目、模具傾角對於管材造
成的皺摺情形、等效應力和胚料速度場分
佈情形，因此可了解在薄壁管材在加工
時，必須要注意的有模具傾角、鍛鎚數目
的參數設定對於往後的成形結果是非常重
要，因此可以瞭解到以兩片式鍛鎚及模具
傾角 15°時成形效果最佳，對於往後業界在
生產製造時能夠減少不必要的調校、維
修、管理與節省退火處理等目的。
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者國外差旅費 
 
心得報告 
 
98 年 11 月 01 日 
報告人姓名 林恆勝 服務機構及職稱 
國立虎尾科技大學 
機械與電腦輔助工程系 副教授 
時間 
會議地點 
2009/10/26~30 馬來西亞 
吉隆坡（Kuala Lumpur）
本文核定
輔助文號 NSC 97-2221-E-150-022 
會議名稱 The International Conference on Advances in Materials and Processing Technologies（AMPT 2009） 
發表 
論文題目 
（中文）馬達聯軸器之冷間背壓鍛造模具開發  
（英文）PROCESS DESIGN OF COLD COMBINATION EXTRUSION FOR 
MOTOR COUPLINGS 
一、 參加經過 
    2009年10月26日下午抵達馬來西亞的首都-吉隆坡，當日即前往位於吉隆坡市中心
的The Legend Hotel會議中心完成註冊與報到程序，並對整個會議的流程安排及會場環
境作進一步的了解。27日早上8點30到達會議中心，並於9點整參與整個會議的開幕式。
開幕式是由International Islamic University Malaysia的Arrival of rector進行致詞，其中談
到舉辦本次會議重要的理念與想法，並與各位與會人員進行分享。開幕式後接續而來
的行程為各個會場不同類型主題的論文發表與討論，而這幾天的會議過程也有數場大
規模的專題演說，並提供各界學者的討論。在29日所舉行的閉幕式中，對學術界有貢
獻及優秀表現的學者進行表揚的儀式，其中提到未來在機械製造各領域的未來發展情
況，期許有更精進的發展，當然也提到下一屆2010年的AMPT的學術交流會議的相關
資訊，以達到全球性密切的學術交流。 
3 
PROCESS DESIGN OF COLD COMBINATION EXTRUSION 
FOR A MOTOR COUPLING 
 
H.S. Lin1, Y.C. Hsu2, C.C. Keh3 
 
 
1. Department of Mechanical and Computer-Aided Engineering; email: hslin@nfu.edu.tw 
2. Department of Mechanical and Computer-Aided Engineering; email: jasonych@nfu.edu.tw 
3. Institute of Mechanical & Electro-Mechanical Engineering; email: p754101@moon.nfu.edu.tw 
National Formosa University, Hu-Wei, Yunlin 632, Taiwan 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Most heavy-type motor couplings are designed with gear-teeth on the inner race and formed 
with cold forging to increase their toughness and minimize the material loss during production. In 
this case study, cold combination extrusion was applied in forming the gear-toothed motor coupling. 
The formed workpiece appeared a lap defect near its fillet of the lower web. This work explores the 
means to avoid lap formation with the aid of finite element software DEFORM 2D. The process 
variables considered include billet dimension, punch geometry, counter-pressure of the die block, 
and the motion of multi-actioned press. The results show that by applying modification of lower 
punch geometry, counter-pressure of the die block, or the motion of multi-actioned press, formation 
of lap can be avoided. Forming with counter-pressure or multi-action produces less load than that of 
combination extrusion, indicating a better upper punch life in applying counter-pressure or 
multi-action operations. 
 
KEYWORDS: Cold Forging, Combination Extrusion, Counter-Pressure, Motor Coupling. 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Motor couplings are widely used in transmission links. In order to bear heavy loads in the 
industrial machinery like shop travelers and lifters, the inner race of the motor coupling is designed 
with gear-teeth, instead of a key-way, to minimize the shear stress caused by turning motion and to 
provide better engagement between motor shaft and the motor coupling. Most heavy-type motor 
couplings are formed with cold forging to increase their toughness and minimize the material loss 
during production. The formed gear-teeth do not need subsequent machining after cold forging. 
In this case study, cold combination extrusion was applied in forming the gear-toothed motor 
coupling as shown in Fig. 1. The workpiece fills forward the die cavity first because of less 
reduction of area in this lower position, and proceeds to flow backward to form the gear-teeth after 
this die cavity is completely filled. The formed workpiece appeared a lap defect near its fillet of the 
lower web, as shown in Fig. 2 with a subsequent punching operation. To avoid this defect, the 
5 
simplified by assuming the inner diameter of the workpiece equal to the diameter of dedendum 
circle of the gear-teeth. There were 3000 elements used in the simulation. Punches and die elements 
were assumed to be rigid. Friction factor between the tool and workpiece was 0.1. 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 Dimension of motor coupling. 
 
 
The original design of the billet was 56 mm in diameter and 50 mm in length. Three 
combinations of dimensions, based on constancy of volume, were simulated. The diameters were 50, 
52, and 54 mm, and the lengths were 62.72, 57.99, and 53.77 mm, respectively. 
Tool geometry can be influential on the pattern of metal flow. Fig. 4 depicts the modifications 
of the upper and lower punches. The design variables are listed in Table 1.  
 
 
 
Fig. 4 Modifications of upper and lower punches. 
 
 
Table 1 Design variables of upper and lower punches. 
Fillet radius of upper punch, ru (mm) (2), 4, 7, 10
Fillet radius of lower punch, rl (mm) (1), 2, 4, 6 
Taper of lower punch, α (°) (0), 1, 3, 5 
7 
 
Fig. 7 Flow analysis of lap formation. 
 
 
3.2 The Effect of Billet Dimension and Punch Geometry 
Lap still appeared after billet dimension or the geometry of upper punch was changed. The 
simulations showed that flow patterns changed very little by these modifications. The ineffective 
modifications of billet dimension and upper punch geometry are no surprise because both measures 
could not improve to streamline the metal flow near the fillet of the lower web as the upper punch 
proceeds downward and squeezes the formed web as shown in Fig. 7(c). 
However, by modifying the geometry of the lower punch, the metal flow near the fillet of the 
lower web was streamlined and the lap could be avoided. Fig. 8 shows its influence on the 
distribution of effective strain and metal flow. With taper as large as 5°, the maximum strain occurs 
near the lower fillet and the metal flow still forms a lap near the same place, as shown in Figs. 8 (a) 
and (b). The influence would not become effective until the fillet radius reaches 6 mm. Fig. 8 (c) 
shows larger strains distribute evenly along the lower fillet and no lap is formed. Therefore, 
modifying lower punch with a larger fillet proves to be an effective measure in avoiding the 
occurrence of lap, while taper as large as 5° does not prove to be effective. 
 
(a) fillet 2 mm; taper 5° (b) fillet 4 mm; taper 5° (c) fillet 6 mm; taper 0° 
Fig. 8 The effect of lower punch geometry on metal flow. 
 
Lap 
(a) (b) (c) 
9 
3.4 The Effect of the Motion of Multi-Actioned Press 
The distribution of effective strain and flow pattern of workpiece formed with multi-actioned 
press are similar to those of formed with counter-pressure (Fig. 9). In order to obtain correct 
geometry, the speed ratio of upper punch to lower punch has to be carefully selected in applying a 
multi-actioned press. Fig. 11 shows the effect of speed ratio on the extruded geometry. Small speed 
ratios cause shorter back-extruded parts while large speed ratios cause longer back-extruded parts. 
Correct geometry can be obtained when the ratio equals 0.2. 
 
 
 
Fig. 11 The influence of speed ratio on extruded geometry. 
 
 
3.5 The Analysis of Forming Load 
Fig. 12 shows the upper punch load of respective operations. Forming with combination 
extrusion shows two stages of filling sequence, i.e. a steady forwarding extrusion and then followed 
by backward extrusion with some fluctuation. However forming with counter-pressure and forming 
with multi-action exhibit one stage of filling and with final loads less than that of forming with 
combination extrusion. The result indicates a better upper punch life in applying counter-pressure or 
multi-action operations. 
 
 
 
Fig. 12 Upper punch load of respective operations. 
