  2 
(BE) services. These different service-classes provide 
different QoS requirements for diverse applications, and 
then bring different rewards to the network provider.  
Several issues should be addressed before achieving a 
high efficient WiMAX. The WiMAX issues can be 
classified into the following aspects: (1) the number of 
the random access channels in an uplink subframe, (2) 
scheduling mechanism and (3) resource management and 
call admission control (CAC).  
First, in WiMAX, the uplink subframe consists of the 
random access and data transmission channels. The 
random access channels are used for the initial and 
handoff ranging, and bandwidth request for group polling. 
The data transmission channels are used for data 
transmissions between a BS and SSs. Thus, there is a 
trade-off between the number of random access channels 
and the number of data transmission channels. Several 
studies [2-3] analyzed the optimal number of the random 
access channels based on the number of SSs.  
Second, in the scheduling issue, [4-6] mentioned that 
IEEE 802.16 supports different types of service flows to 
achieve quality of service (QoS) with high data rate, but 
WiMAX doesn’t depict the operations of bandwidth 
allocation, scheduling mechanism and call admission 
control (CAC). However, a CAC mechanism is a key 
mechanism to increase network reward by deciding 
whether to accept a request or not. Chu et al. [4] indicated 
that WiMAX can use different schedulers for different 
service-classes, but didn’t propose any scheduling 
scheme. Wongthavarawat et al. [5] proposed a 
hierarchical scheduler for different service-classes, e.g., 
rtPS uses the Earliest Deadline First (EDF) scheduler and 
nrtPS uses the Weight Fair Queue (WFQ) scheduler. 
Chen et al. [6] proposed a hierarchical scheduling 
structure, but the actual deadline of each arrived real-time 
packet is difficult to obtain and [6] requires a large 
amount of resource to monitor the network state and 
maintain the scheduling database. Furthermore, the main 
disadvantages in IEEE 802.16 include long polling delay 
and high waste rate of bandwidth used for polling at the 
downlink when a BS serves a large number of SSs. 
Meanwhile, IEEE 802.16 supports the multicast or 
broadcast polling modes when the residual bandwidth is 
not enough for the amount of required bandwidth in the 
unicast polling. In the multicast or broadcast polling, 
WiMAX adopts a contention-based mechanism for SSs to 
compete for bandwidth. Thus, these two polling modes 
cannot guarantee the delay bound for rtPS services 
because of access collisions. For solving this problem, 
Chang et al. [7] proposed a QrtPS service-class to take 
over the rtPS class, and thus guaranteed the average delay 
requirement of real-time services.  
Third, in the resource management and CAC issues, 
Niyato [8] et al. proposed two bandwidth allocations of 
the complete sharing and the complete partitioning to 
manage resource allocation among different classes of 
service flow, which results indicated that the complete 
sharing outperforms the complete partitioning in average 
queueing length and average delay. In [9], Niyato et al. 
proposed a joint bandwidth allocation and CAC 
framework to provide a unified radio resource 
management solution that offers both of the packet-level 
and connection-level QoS transmissions by using 
different service types. Additionally, the results in [9] 
indicated that UGS yields the least blocking probability, 
but the nrtPS service generates the highest blocking 
probability. In [10], Gakhar et al. proposed a dynamic 
resource management to minimize the amount of 
bandwidth being actually provisioned for committed 
bandwidth traffic while reducing the cost of MAC 
signaling. Meanwhile, a hysteresis is used to model a 
Markov chain, and then obtains global equations for the 
allocated bandwidth and the transition rate to represent 
the total signaling quantity.  
Furthermore, Chang et al. [11] have proposed a link 
cost function based on the Markov decision process 
(MDP) for updating aggregated routing information in 
hierarchical networks. The theory of MDP is a pledge 
method in a lot of network-related issues. A number of 
network control schemes have been developed based on 
the Markov decision processes [12]. We adopt herein the 
idea of [13] for its simplicity and efficiency to define the 
carrying cost of rtPS services. It formulates the resource 
allocation problem as a Markov decision process, and 
then obtains the cost for adding a connection to the 
WiMAX network according to the Markov decision 
theory [12].  
Although several researches have achieved some 
improvements in WiMAX, the primary issues for 
maximizing network reward and minimizing polling 
delay are seldom discussed. This work thus proposes an 
adaptive hierarchical polling mechanism extending from 
[14] and a Markov decision process based call admission 
control with a pending mechanism (namely AHP) for the 
purpose. AHP considers a two-level hierarchical 
scheduling for the node-priority and the class of service 
flow simultaneously. The contributions of AHP include: 
(1) to guarantee bandwidth allocation for the high-priority 
nodes, (2) to maximize network reward from high-priority 
nodes and high-class service flows and (3) to reduce 
average polling delay and bandwidth waste used for 
polling. 
The remainder of this work is organized as follows. 
Section II defines the network model. Section III 
describes the proposed adaptive hierarchical polling with 
uniform interleaving and two-mode pending mechanism 
in detail. The MDP-based CAC is detailed in Section IV. 
Numerical results of the proposed approach are provided 
in Section V. Conclusions and future works are given in 
Section VI. 
 
II. NETWORK MODEL  
This section first defines the network model of 
WiMAX. Next, some useful notations are defined. 
Finally, the performance metrics for evaluating the 
proposed approach and the IEEE 802.16 standard are 
defined in detail.  
We model an IEEE 802.16e [1] wireless network as a 
graph, ),( EVW = , which consists of a set of nodes, 
V , and a set of wireless links, E . The topology varies 
as mobile nodes move, and then the graph is changed 
dynamically. The channel capacity of a wireless network, 
  4 
more reward than others, the number of accesses of the 
premium customer-priority should be higher than that of 
the general customer-priority and the amount of access 
bandwidth of the golden service-class should be higher 
than that of the silver service-class, etc. Thus, the 
motivations of this work are to propose an adaptive 
hierarchical polling approach to achieve high network 
reward and QoS transmission, while reducing average 
polling delay for polling-based WiMAX networks. 
IEEE 802.16 offers five classes of service flow to 
satisfy QoS transmissions, but a BS polls each SS with 
identical polling weight. Specifically, WiMAX doesn’t 
support different node-priorities, and then only obtains 
network reward from different service-classes rather than 
from different node-priorities. This work thus proposes an 
adaptive hierarchical polling (AHP) approach to increase 
network reward significantly, while reducing average 
polling delay and increasing bandwidth utilization used 
for polling. The proposed AHP approach consists of three 
primary schemes: the hierarchical polling mechanism, the 
pending mechanism and the MDP-based CAC, as 
illustrated in Fig. 2. The functions of these three schemes 
are detailed as follows. 
1. Node Priority
CID / SFID ClassificationDynamic Service 
message
Adaptive Polling List 
CID
Schedule Module
UGS
CID
CID
CID
CID
CID
CID
CID
Q
U
E
U
I
N
G
M
O
D
U
L
E
Data Transmission
rtPS/
ertP
S
nrtP
S
BE
CID
CID
CID
CID
Transmission 
Buffer
3. MDP-based CAC
……… …………
Create
Map message
UL-MAP
2. Pending Module
Active mode
Passive 
mode
DSA, DSC, DSD
management
1. Adaptive Polling with 
Uniform Interleaving 
Scheme
Initial Controller
Initial negotiation
Initial reply message
 
Fig. 2. System diagram of the adaptive hierarchical polling 
approach  
 
A. Adaptive Hierarchical Polling (AHP) Mechanism 
 
The AHP mechanism comprises of two components: 
(1) adaptive contention window ranges for individual 
node-priority and (2) hierarchical polling scheduler, to 
achieve the following advantages: 
 to minimize collision probability of contention 
period even though a BS serves high-density SSs, 
and 
 to maximize network reward from the hierarchical 
polling scheduler. 
 
1. Adaptive Contention Window Ranges for Individual 
Node-Priority 
This work classifies SSs into R  node-priorities based 
on the QoS-aware parameters and the customer priority. 
To prevent contentions from different node-priorities in 
AHP, the contention windows of initial ranging or 
bandwidth request ranging is partitioned into R  CW 
ranges. The first range is allocated to the highest priority 
nodes and the last range is allocated to the lowest priority 
nodes, etc, as shown in Fig. 3. Specifically, the CW value 
of the high-priority node is smaller than that of the 
low-priority node. The partition guarantees that a 
higher-priority node obtains a smaller CW value in these 
two contention periods. The node-priority of each SS is 
determined according to various QoS parameters: 
customer priority, access cost, 
minimum/maximum/average data rate, delay and delay 
jitter, etc. The lower and upper bounds of the Fixed CW 
(FCW) range of priority r  node, 
rFCW , are denoted by 
L
rFCW  and 
U
rFCW , respectively. The sum of FCW of 
each priority is the same as the size of the contention 
window of the initial ranging or the bandwidth request 
ranging period (denoted by CW ), that is, 
CWFCW
R
r
r =å
=1
.            (4) 
Additionally, AHP supports an overlap CW range of 
two adjacent node-priorities to achieve that the 
higher-class service flow of a lower-priority node may 
have a smaller CW value than that of the lower-class 
service flow of a higher-priority node. The length of the 
overlap CW is called as the sliding window (SW) range 
of the higher-priority node, namely rSW , which is 
adaptively determined by the number of priority r  SSs. 
Finally, the minimum and maximum CW values of 
priority r   node are denoted by min
rCW  and maxrCW , 
respectively, which is determined by  
min L
r rCW FCW¬ ,               (5) 
and 
max U
r r rCW FCW SW¬ + .           (6) 
Second, the CW range of each node-priority can be 
adaptively adjusted based on the number of SSs of each 
node-priority. In [16], the optimal CW range in WiMAX 
is deduced from twice the number of SSs. We thus define 
a threshold at UrFCW . If twice the number of priority r  
SSs exceeds U
rFCW , i.e., 
2 ,r USS rV FCW× ³  
an elastic sliding window, rSW , will be applied to extend 
the rFCW  as the optimal CW length for priority r  
nodes. Based on the adaptive adjustment of CW range of 
each node-priority, the collision probabilities of initial 
ranging and bandwidth request ranging are obviously 
reduced even thought the number of SSs increases. 
  6 
nodes may suffer from long polling delay and delay jitter. 
The delay jitter results from the polled and silent periods 
of a node are different. To improve the problem, we adopt 
the uniform interleaving to rearrange the polling order 
with the determined polling weights for all nodes. For 
instance, from above example, after obtaining the 
adaptive polling weights at the 1+i -th cycle, the 
uniform interleaving is used to obtain the final polling 
order within a cycle, as demonstrated in Fig. 4. The 
weights for nodes 3N  and 2N  require x  and y  
periods, respectively, and they are grouped as a subcycle 
of “ a ” period. The frames of 2N  at the subcycle of “a” 
period are rearranged uniformly. Frames in the subcycle 
of “b” period are inserted into the rearranged subcycle of 
“a” period and thus obtains the polling order, as shown in 
Fig. 4. 
 
:  The node of  the subcycle 
:  The node of  the subcycle 
. Uniformly scatter the node of the subcycle 
. Uniformly insert the node of the subcycle 
 into the rearranged subcycle 
:  The node of  the subcycle 
Final polling order  
Fig. 4. The uniform interleaving scheme 
 
Finally, Fig. 5 demonstrates the block diagram of the 
hierarchical polling scheme, in which the nod-priority and 
service-flow scheduling mechanisms are indicated in the 
BS and SS, respectively. At the node level scheduling, it 
achieves adaptive polling with uniform interleaving for 
guaranteeing the subscribed data rate. Conversely, at the 
service level scheduling, it supports QoS transmission for 
different service-classes. Consequently, the hierarchical 
polling scheduling achieves high reward not only from 
high-priority nodes but also from high-class services. 
Additionally, the approach reduces the average polling 
delay and delay jitter significantly. 
 
Fig. 5. Hierarchical polling mechanism 
B. Pending mechanism 
Although WiMAX adopts the polling mechanism to 
overcome access contention, it may increase polling delay 
and waste bandwidth used for polling when the BS polls 
silent SSs. IEEE 802.16 thus uses the poll-me (PM) bit 
for an SS to notify the BS that the SS can be polled or not. 
Unfortunately, in IEEE 802.16, only the SS with active 
UGS connections need to be individually polled can set 
the PM bit. In other words, the SSs without active UGS 
connections are disallowed using the PM bit, which limits 
the improvement. This work proposes a pending 
mechanism to overcome above drawback, and then 
achieves two significant contributions. First, the pending 
mechanism is independent of the SS’s UGS status. 
Second, both the BS and SS can set the SS to active or 
idle state.  
In the pending mechanism, an active SS changes its 
state by two modes: the active and passive modes. First, 
in the active setting mode, an SS changes its state by 
using the proposed “pending” bit that uses the reserved 
bit in the IEEE 802.16 MAC frame. When the BS 
receives the pending message (i.e., pending=1), the BS 
sets the SS to the idle state and the SS is still in the 
polling list. The BS will not poll these idle SSs, and thus 
reduces the polling delay obviously. Additionally, an SS 
can send a wakeup message (i.e., pending=0) to notify the 
BS that the SS requires changing to the active state again. 
Fig. 6 illustrates the state change diagram of an SS. 
 
 
Fig. 6. State change diagram in the active setting mode 
 
Second, in the passive setting mode, a BS can set any 
SS to the idle state, when the BS polls the SS in 
continuous PC  polls but the SS has not replied these 
polls yet because the SS does not have any data to be 
sent. The main difference between the active and passive 
modes is that the active setting mode requires using a 
pending bit in the general IEEE 802.16 MAC frame, but 
  8 
the cost is the difference of relative values between 
states i  and kbi + , and is normalized to the holding 
time of the service flow. 
Equations (13)-(16) provide an efficient way of 
determining the cost of carrying a class k  service flow 
in the network. However, a traffic must first be classified, 
and then two parameters must be defined, Wjg and 
W
jl . 
First, all service flows that require the same amount of 
bandwidth are classified into the same traffic class. The 
problem is then how to define the flow reward for a 
traffic class, i.e., the parameter wg m . Since service flows 
with the same bandwidth may have different reward and 
may be carried on different service flows, the reward of 
the service flow is defined by on-line measurement. 
Specifically, for each class k  service flow carried by 
the network, the network reward is set to kk
W
k b×=
wgg , 
where wg k is the original reward for this flow and kb  is 
the bandwidth required to set up the service flow in the 
network. The “modified” reward for class k  service 
flow is the average of the reward of service flow obtained 
from each individual flow. 
Second, the arrival rate Wkl of class k  service flow 
in the network W is computed on-line based on the 
model of Exponential Weighted Moving Average 
(EWMA) of ( ) W
k
W
kW
oldk
W
newk B-
×+×-=
1
~
1 ,,
l
alal , where
W
kl
~
 
denotes the average number of class k  service flows 
carried in the network W per unit of time, which is 
updated at regular time intervals, W
newk ,l  is the new 
predicted arrival rate, Woldk ,l  is the previous value, 
W
kB is the proportion of time the class k  service flow is 
blocked, and a  is a constant from (0, 1). 
The call admission control with the MDP cost 
function can be accomplished as follows. When the 
hierarchical polling approach determines the carrying 
cost, )(ipWk , for a bandwidth request class k  service 
flow with the network bandwidth occupancy, i , which 
satisfies the QoS constraints, it compares the cost with the 
reward of the service flow, wg k . If the carrying cost is 
less than the reward of the connection, then the 
connection is accepted. Otherwise, the connection is 
rejected.  
Finally, we analyze the worst-case running time of the 
proposed AHP approach. The algorithm of AHP is 
demonstrated as follows.  
Assume that the total number of SSs in a BS is N , 
and the BS supports R  node priorities and K  classes 
of service flow. Initially, an SS performs 
Initial_Ranging( ) to register to the BS. Since an SS 
requires (1)O  time to generate a random CW value, the 
BS with N R -priority nodes requires ( )O N  running 
time to check whether the registration is successful or not. 
In the worst case, the time complexity of 
Initial_Ranging( ) is ( )O N . Then, we assume that all 
SSs successfully completed the initial ranging procedure. 
The BS performs Update_R-Priority Qs of Polling Lists( ) 
to add these new registered SSs into R-priority queues. 
This requires ( )O N R×  running time. In the worst case, 
each SS generates K  classes of flows; thus, 
Traffic_Model( ) requires ( )O N K×  running time. 
After that, the BS polls SSs by calling Unicast 
Polling( ). In Step 1, the BS performs the adaptive 
hierarchical polling with uniform interleaving scheduling. 
In the worst case, each queue has the same number of 
SSs, i.e., N
R
, and the BS requires ( )O R  running time to 
determine the polling weights for R -priority queues. 
Then, the BS performs the uniform interleaving for R 
queues to reduce average polling delay. After applying 
the updated polling weight to individual priority queue, 
the length of the final polling list becomes 
1
R
r
r
N W R
R =
æ ö
× ×ç ÷
è ø
å , where 
1
R
r
r
W
=
å  is the sum of the polling 
weights, denoted by W , and R>W . The length of the 
polling list is thus expressed by N R
R
× ×W  or N × W . 
Finally, the BS requires ( )O N R× ×W  running time to 
perform the uniform interleaving for R -priority queues. 
In Step2, an SS performed the priority queue scheduling 
requires (1)O  running time. In Step 3, the BS performs 
MDP_based CAC( ) as the call admission control, in 
which MDP requires a maximum K  classes 
computations of ( ) ( 1)W WW WCAP CAPf f- -  and g  to 
determine the carrying cost of )(ipWk . That is, the 
computation complexity of determining the carrying cost 
for the incoming connection requires the running time of 
( )O K . To compare the carrying cost with the reward by 
using if( ) requires (1)O  running time. Specifically, the 
MDP_based CAC( ) requires ( )O K  running time. As a 
result, the Unicast Polling( ) requires 
( ) (1) ( )O N R O O K× × + +W  running time, i.e., 
( )O N R× ×W . Finally, the computation complexity of the 
proposed AHP approach, ( )T n , is thus  
( )
( )
( ) ( ) ( ) ( )
       ,
T n O N O N R O N K O N R
O N R
= + × + × + × ×
= × ×
W
W
 
where N  is the total number of SSs in the BS, R  is 
the number of supported node priorities and W  is the 
sum of the polling weights. 
 
V. NUMERICAL RESULTS 
In this section, we evaluate extensive performance 
metrics, including average polling delay, fractional 
reward loss and utilization, of the proposed AHP 
approach. In addition, the results of AHP are compared 
with that of IEEE 802.16 standard under different 
simulation situations, such as different number of SSs, 
namely NDS, different number of pending counts and 
different arrival rates of rtPS and nrtPS. 
  10 
when the number of nodes increases. AHP_rtPS yields 
the lowest polling delay, but IEEE 802.16_nrtPS yields 
the highest polling delay. The results meet the unicast 
polling mechanism in WiMAX networks. Moreover, the 
primary reason that the proposed AHP approach always 
yields lower delay than that of IEEE 802.16 is AHP 
schedules the high-priority node before low-priority node 
and adopts the uniform interleaving scheme. In 
consequence, the average polling delays of AHP_rtPS and 
AHP_nrtPS are reduced significantly.  
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
2 4 6 8
Arrival rate
Av
er
ag
e 
po
llin
g 
de
la
y(
s)
IEEE 802.16_ rtPS
IEEE 802.16_ nrtPS
AHP_rtPS
AHP_nrtPS
 
Fig. 10. Average polling delay (in second) of different 
approaches under various arrival rates 
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
0 25 50 75 100 125 150
NDS
A
ve
ra
ge
 p
ol
lin
g 
de
la
y(
s)
IEEE 802.16_ rtPS
IEEE 802.16_ nrtPS
AHP_ rtPS
AHP_nrtPS
 
Fig. 11. Average polling delay (in second) of different 
approaches under various numbers of nodes 
 
For evaluating the effect of the proposed pending 
mechanism, the average polling delay are investigated, 
where the passive mode with pending count i  is denoted 
by Passive_PC=i. In Fig. 12, the average polling delays 
of rtPS and nrtPS service-classes in AHP are evaluated 
under various arrival rates ranging from 4 to 8. The 
polling delays of all cases increase when the number of 
pending counts increases, in which Active_PC=1 and 
Passive_PC=1 result in the lowest polling delay. The 
main reason is that the active mode can save the pending 
query delay but that of the passive mode depends on the 
number of pending counts, i.e., the lower the number of 
pending counts the passive modes has, the longer the 
polling delay it yields. However, the proposed pending 
mechanism yields significant lower average polling delay 
than that in IEEE 802.16. In addition, the polling delays 
of all cases increase when the arrival rate increases. 
Obviously, the polling delays of all rtPS classes are lower 
than those of all nrtPS classes. The main reason is that 
rtPS is always scheduled before nrtPS in each SS.  
 
Fig. 12. Average polling delay (in second) of different pending 
modes under various arrival rates 
 
Finally, we evaluate the utilization of all compared 
approaches to justify that AHP not only yields the lowest 
FRL and average polling delay but also results in high 
utilization. Fig. 13 evaluates the utilization of different 
approaches with the arrival rate of 8 under various NDS 
ranging from 0 to 500. AHP_R=2 and AHP_R=3 yield 
the highest utilization as the NDS increasing, even though 
IEEE 802.16 results in a competitive utilization. The 
results clarify that AHP yields the highest utilization and 
the lowest delay under saturation traffic load. That is, 
AHP achieves the advantages of high reward and delay 
bound guarantee. 
 
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500
NDS
U
til
iz
at
io
n 
(n
o 
un
it)
IEEE 802.16
AHP_R=2
AHP_R=3
 
Fig. 13. Utilization of different approaches under various NDS 
 
In summary, the proposed adaptive hierarchical 
adaptive polling approach outperforms IEEE 802.16 in 
FRL, average polling delay and utilization under various 
simulation cases. In AHP, FRL decreases when the 
number of node priorities increases, i.e., the effect 
becomes better as the number of node priorities increases 
even in a heavy arrival rate or high NDS situations. In 
addition, the average polling delays of rtPS and nrtPS in 
AHP are obvious lower that in IEEE 802.16, respectively. 
Furthermore, rtPS results in better FRL and average 
polling delay than those of nrtPS in both the AHP and 
IEEE 802.16 approaches. Consequently, AHP and IEEE 
802.16 yield the competitive utilization and AHP_R=3 
results in the optimal performance. 
 
  12 
for WiMAX networks 和 (3) Performance analysis。主
要項目有： 
l 完成IEEE 802.16 家族標準及相關論文研究分析
與探討。 
l 完成階層式詢問機制設計與效能分析。 
l 完成主動式暫停詢問機制設計與效能分析。 
l 完成即時與非即時性資料傳送與頻寬分派之設
計與分析。 
l 完成馬可夫決策程序的允入控制機制設計與分
析。 
l 完成數值分析與模擬驗證。 
我們一年計畫成果投稿於國際SCI期刊與國際會
議，目前已被國際知名期刊、國際會議論文接受，包
括：二篇Computer Communications (SCI Exp.)期刊論文
接受、一篇IEEE AINA2008國際會議論文。 
 
- UASS 
- TeNAS 
- DMWPC 
- BioCom等， 
Main conference 與Workshops，是一個相當大型的會議。 
除了一般性的技術論文研討外，本次研討會針對目前無線網路、WiMAX 網路與其相關
應用上有關技術、政策、內容、與管理等面向的各項重要議題，徵求優良論文在本次研討會
中發表，並安排專題演講、議題討論、研討課程、與社交活動，以使與會者享受濃郁人文氣
息的知識分享經驗。此外，本次研討會除了論文發表，大會並邀請多位 Keynote speakers作不
同領域的專題 speeches，包括： 
1. Synchronization is coming back, but is it the same (Prof. Michel Raynal, IRISA-IFSIC, 
France) 
2. Cyber Science Infrastructure (CSI) for Promoting Research Activities of Academia and 
Industries in Japan (Prof. Shigeki Yamada, National Institute of Informatics, Japan) 
3. IT Security – Extravaganza in real world (Dr. Nobuo Kamata, Soliton Systems, Japan) 
會議中共有 132 場 Sessions 進行論文發表，筆者印象最深的幾場與未來 Wireless 
Networking 相關的研究主題與方向，包括：WiMAX, Mobility Application, Network Analysis, 
Wireless Sensor Networks, Distributed P2P Networks and Network Technologies等。從這些討論
的過程中，我們從學界先進、業界專家以及知名企業高層管理的精彩技術報告，取得了良好
收穫。除此之外，今年收錄的論文有數百多篇，會議的時間非常的緊迫，卻也達成預期的交
流目標。在筆者的發表 Session 中，筆者所發表的論文是第一篇，由會議中有將近 8 位與會
人士對此論文主題與內容相當有興趣，對關鍵原創想法與演算法皆提有提問，在筆者的詳細
說明後,皆能穫得同意與讚賞。另外，筆者也於會場中與多位國內專家學者交換心得與意見，
這包括：成功大學資工系黃崇明教授、元智大學資工系黃依賢教授、暨大資管簡宏宇教授等
多位教授。 
 
 
 
 
 AINA  2008 Information      Sessions       Authors    
   
 Getting Started      trademarks       Search 
Sponsored by 
IEEE Computer Society  
 
In cooperation with  
The Telecommunication Advancement Foundation (TAF) Japan 
22nd International Conference  
on Advanced Information Networking and Applications 
25-28 March 2008 
Gino-wan, Okinawa, Japan 
 
 
messages from TIC, and then the provider will send the 
information to the cooperative radio stations to broadcast the 
messages. Although the coverage area of RDS is larger than 
that of existing wireless networks, the traffic information still 
has to be built by TIC and thus has the same problem of 
TomTom RDS/TMC and PAPAGO R15. 
In [14], Hull et al. proposed a distributed mobile sensor 
computing system, denoted by CarTel, to collect, process, 
deliver and visualize data from mobile unit sensors. Based on 
the Intelligent Transportation System (ITS), [15,16] proposed 
the Wireless Sensor Network ITS (WITS) to increase the 
efficiency of ITS. The WITS consists of three components: 
intersection unit, roadside unit and vehicle unit, but some 
drawbacks exist in WITS. WITS increases the time complexity 
of position determination and may result in inaccurate position.  
Since high-mobility vehicles require an efficient 
communication protocol for exchanging information, [5] 
proposed a highway cooperative collision avoidance (CCA) 
system based on the Dedicated Short Range Communication 
(DSRC) standard. The DSRC system was designed for the 
electronic toll collection not for the network-based IVC. Some 
routing protocols for Car-to-Car (C2C) communications 
mentioned in [17,18], including IP/non-IP and 
point-to-point/point-to-multipoint protocols. The multihop 
relay communications, e.g., the IEEE 802.16j protocol [1] and 
the Greedy Perimeter Stateless Ad Hoc routing protocol (GPSR) 
[19], are seldom adopted even though they can support more 
efficient data transmission in IVC and could be selected as the 
protocol for the Vehicular Ad-hoc Network (VANET) 
[20,21,22]. In addition, the Geocasting protocol [22] could be 
applied to C2C as the position-based routing scheme.  
FLEETNET [23] developed the Linux-based FleetNet 
Router with the GPSR routing protocol for C2C 
communications, in which IEEE 802.11b++ is adopted as the 
inter-vehicle communication protocol. The transmission range 
of IEEE 802.11++ cannot meet the demand of high-speed 
vehicles.  
From extensive related works, we know that an efficient 
large-range wireless network is necessary to achieve C2C 
communications successfully. Table I demonstrates the 
comparisons of transmission range and data rate among 
different wireless networks that can be used for C2C 
communications. In Table I, we can observe that the IEEE 
802.16e/j WiMAX network outperforms other networks in all 
specifics; especially, the mutihop relay function of IEEE 
802.16j standard is more suitable for C2C communications and 
IVC.  
Table I. Comparison of wireless networks technologies 
Wireless 
Network 
ZigBee 
802.15.4 
WiFi 
802.11b/g/n 
WiMAX 
802.16e/j 
Data Rate 128 Kbps 11 Mbps 30 Mbps 
Range <150 m 100~300 m 3~5 km 
Mobility low low high 
 
Moreover, the advanced vehicle technologies, including 
sensor, radar and video devices, have been equipped to achieve 
less travel time and safer cruise. For example, Mercedes Benz's 
radar-based Pre-Safe Brake Assist Plus [24], Lexus’s 
video/sensor-based auto-parking system [25], Volvo’s 
radar/camera-based Adaptive Cruise Control system for 
preventive safety [26] and BMW’s ACC Active Cruise Control 
system for helping drivers keep the appropriate vehicle distance 
and cruise speed at all times [27].  
Therefore, the motivation of this paper is to propose a fully 
distributed navigation approach based on wireless sensor 
networks, in which the real-time traffic information is gathered 
and distributed for vehicles to determine the optimal path 
adaptively. The proposed approach achieves the least travel 
time and exhausted gasoline while yielding the competitive 
travel distance.  
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section II 
defines the network model. Section III details the proposed 
adaptive navigation approach. Section IV presents the 
numerical results of the proposed adaptive approach and other 
approaches by simulations. Finally, conclusions are given in 
Section V. 
II. NETWORK MODEL 
We model a WSN-based navigation network on a digital 
map as a graph, ),( EVG = , which consists of a set of mobile 
vehicles, V , and a set of wireless links, E . Some vehicles are 
equipped with the GPS device, different type sensors and a 
WiMAX network interface. Therefore, the speed (i.e., nvel ), 
the direction (i.e., ndir ), and the longitude and latitude of the 
position (i.e., ( , )nx y  ) of a vehicle n  can be obtained by the 
GPS and odometer. In addition, assume that the vehicle, which 
has the WiMAX interface, has the same transmission range of 
tR  and the same sensing range of sR . Any two vehicles can 
communicate with each other if the distance between them is 
less than the transmission range, tR .  
Finally, three performance metrics, including average 
travel time, average travel exhausted gasoline and average 
travel distance, are adopted for evaluating the proposed 
approach and other approaches. 
First, the average travel time is the most important metric to 
evaluate the navigation systems, which is defined by  
1 ,
N
n
n
T
T
N
=
=
∑
                                                           (1) 
where nT  is the n -th travel time of a vehicle. The less the 
average travel time a system spend, the better the performance 
it yields. The reason is that the navigated vehicle always 
traverses the shortest route with light traffic to destination. 
Second, the average travel exhausted gasoline is adopted to 
evaluate the navigation systems, which is define by  
1 ,
N
n
n
G
G
N
=
=
∑
                                                          (2) 
where nG  is the n -th travel exhausted gasoline of a vehicle. 
The less the average travel exhausted gasoline a vehicle 
requires, the better the performance it generates. 
Third, the average travel distance is examined for all 
approaches, which is defined by  
57
and a timestamp, i.e., nID , ( , )nx y and nT , to one-hop neighbor 
vehicles through the WiMAX network interface, as indicated in 
Fig. 2. When the neighbor vehicle receives the broadcast traffic 
information, it will update its traffic table.  
 
Phase 2: The query phase for a vehicle to query traffic 
information toward the destination 
When a vehicle, denoted as a source node S , initializes the 
navigation system, it will inquire the traffic information of the 
roads toward the destination. The vehicle on the roads toward 
the destination receives the query message will reply the 
inquired vehicle (i.e., the source node S ) with its traffic 
information. To avoid message looping, a new arrival query 
message with the same message ID arrives at the intermediate 
vehicle will be discarded. The demonstration of the query phase 
is shown in Fig. 3. 
 
Fig. 3. Broadcast a query message to get traffic information  
 
Phase 3: The phase of determining the road traffic density 
and coloring the digital map 
After receiving the replied traffic information from 
intermediate vehicles, the navigation system determines the 
traffic density and weight of each road. Such a scheme is 
termed as traffic density determination and density coloring on 
the digital map. The Phase 3 consists of the following 
three-step processes:   
Step 1: Collect the traffic information, 
Step 2: Compute the average vehicle distance and average 
vehicle speed of roads, and 
Step 3: Determine each road weight based on the traffic 
density. 
Step 1. Collect the traffic information 
The received traffic information of each road will be 
updated into the traffic table in the source node S . For instance, 
the traffic information of a road r  includes the total number of 
vehicles, denoted by rN , each vehicle’s position, denoted by 
, ( , )n n rx y ∈ , each vehicle’s ID, denoted by , n n rID ∈ , and each 
vehicle’s timestamp, denoted by , n n rT ∈ . As a result, the IDs of 
vehicles that are on the road r  at time t  will be stored in the 
vehicle set of rCar {} . For example, Fig. 4 demonstrates that 
there are five vehicles on road r , where 5rN = and 
{ , , , , }rCar {} A B C D E= .  
 
s
Ds,Astraight
Ds,Bstraight
Ds,Estraight
A B C D E
.  .  .
Road r
DD,E
r
DA,B
r
DB,C
r
DC,D
r
Destination
Source
 
Fig. 4. An example of determining traffic information of a road 
r  
Step 2. Compute the average vehicle distance and average 
vehicle speed of roads 
To determine the road traffic load accurately, we propose the 
traffic density scheme to represent the traffic load on various 
road classes. The traffic density of each road includes two 
parameters: the average vehicle distance and the average 
vehicle speed of each road. 
First, the navigation system computes the straight distance 
between each vehicle on road r  and itself (i.e., the source 
vehicle). The straight distance determination is only used to 
quickly sort the vehicle order rather than to determine the 
actual distance.  The straight distance of the source vehicle s  
and one vehicle n  in rCar {}  is thus expressed by 
( ) ( ), ,2 2straights n s n s nD = x - x + y - y                          (4) 
where ( , )sx y and ( , )nx y  are the positions of the vehicles s  
and n , respectively.  
Then, the navigation system sorts the straight distances and 
obtains the vehicle order on the road r . Assume that the total 
number of vehicles on the road r  is rN  and the sorted straight 
distances is ,1 , , r
straight straight straight
s s n s ND D D< < < <  . 
Finally, the average vehicle distance on the road r  is 
formulated by  
1
, 1
1 ,
1
rN
r
i i
i
r
r
D
D
N
−
+
=
=
−
∑
                                                         (5) 
where , 1
r
i iD +  is the distance between the sorted order vehicles 
i  and 1i + , which is expressed by  
( ) ( ), 1 1 1 .2 2ri i i i i iD = x - x + y - y  + + +                          (6) 
Fig. 4 demonstrates an example for determining Eqs. (5) and 
(6). Furthermore, the average vehicle speed on road r is 
formulated by  
59
navigation system will perform the re-routing 
mechanism. 
(2) When the navigated vehicle is not on the optimal route, 
the navigation system will perform the re-routing 
mechanism. 
The function of the re-routing mechanism is the same as the 
routing mechanism but with different locations of the navigated 
vehicle. The adaptive re-routing is active until the navigated 
vehicle arrives at the destination.  
IV. NUMERICAL RESULTS 
This section evaluates the proposed D-WAN approach and 
other navigation systems by comparing several important 
performance metrics, including average travel time, average 
exhausted gasoline and average travel distance. The compared 
approaches include the shortest path approach (i.e., denoted by 
SP), the road class approach (i.e., denoted by RC) and the 
shortest path with road class approach (i.e., denoted by SPRC).  
Moreover, the performance metrics under different number of 
vehicles and different accident probabilities are also evaluated. 
Fig. 6 shows the evaluated network that is located in Taipei, 
where this area covers 327 intersection nodes and 527 road and 
5 road classes. The detail topology information of the digital 
map is derived from the Road Network Digital Map v.1.2 [29] 
of the Institute of Transportation of the Ministry of 
Transportation and Communications in Taiwan (MOTC). Fig. 
1 demonstrates some important data structures of the digital 
map. In addition, the gasoline consumption of a vehicle under 
different speeds [30] is also evaluated. Finally, the simulation 
parameters are summarized in Table III.  
 
Fig. 6. Network for simulations (Taipei) 
 
Table III. The simulation parameters  
Simulation parameters Values 
Number of Vehicles (NDS) 1000~8000 
Sensing Range 200 m 
Transmission Range 1000 m 
Weights of different road metrics 
(SP) 1 0α = , 2 0α = , 3 1α =  
Weights of different road metrics 
(RC) 1 1α = , 2 0α = , 3 0α =  
Weights of different road metrics 
(SPRC) 1 0.2α = , 2 0α = , 3 0.8α =  
Weights of different road metrics 
(D-WAN) 1 0.2α = , 2 0.2α = , 3 0.6α =  
Accident Probability 0 ~ 0.4 
Adaptive Re-outing Intervals 30 s 
 
We evaluate three performance metrics of all compared 
approaches under different number of vehicles (i.e., denoted by 
NDS) ranging from 1000 to 8000, as shown in Figs. 7-9.   
In Fig. 7, the average travel time of all approaches increases 
as NDS increasing. The result meets the real environment 
because the vehicle speed reduces when NDS increasing. In 
addition, D-WAN yields the least average travel time but SP 
always yields the longest average travel time. The reason is that 
D-WAN considers the traffic density and supports the adaptive 
re-routing, and thus D-WAN obviously avoids selecting high 
traffic density roads because the cost of such roads is high. 
D-WAN only requires 60% of the average travel time of SP and 
SPRC when NDS increases up to 8000.  
In Fig. 8, SP yields the least average travel distance (i.e., 
1735m), but RC yields the worst result (i.e., 2184m). D-WAN 
yields very competitive average travel distance (i.e., ranging 
from 1760m to 1857m) as compare with SPRC (i.e., 1758m). 
Moreover, the static routing algorithms of SP, RC and SPRC 
yield constant average travel time. The adaptive D-WAN 
results in variable average travel distances which are 
independent of NDS. The reason is the D-WAN approach may 
select the route that has light traffic density rather than the 
shortest distance route. 
In Fig. 9, D-WAN requires the least average exhausted 
gasoline but SP and RC require the highest average exhausted 
gasoline. The main reason is that the vehicle used the SP or RC 
approach may be blocked on the shortest distance route while 
the route has heavy traffic load. As a result, SP and RC require 
longer travel time and exhaust more gasoline. In addition, the 
average exhausted gasoline of SPRC is lower than that of SP or 
RC because SPRC simultaneously considers both the metrics of 
road distance and road class.  
V. CONCLUSIONS  
The static routing-based strategy can not achieve the goal 
of the navigation system, i.e., to achieve the least travel time 
and exhausted gasoline for the navigated vehicles. The 
determined shortest route could not guarantee the least travel 
time because the shortest distance route may have heavy traffic 
load and several accidents. Thus, a centralized traffic 
information center approach was proposed to improve the static 
routing-based approaches by using the real-time traffic 
information for the navigation system. Unfortunately, such an 
approach has some disadvantages: (1) high cost for deploying a 
large number of monitor devices covers all roads and (2) low 
reliability by using the centralized TIC. Therefore, in this paper, 
we proposed the distributed wireless sensor network-based 
adaptive navigation approach (i.e., denoted by D-WAN) to 
provide route determination based on considering the metrics 
of road distance, road class and road traffic density 
simultaneously. In D-WAN, the vehicle is equipped with 
different type sensors to sense traffic information and the 
vehicles exchange the traffic information by using the WiMAX 
multihop relay interface. As a result, these vehicles act as 
sensor nodes and form a wireless sensor network. Each vehicle 
can gather the real-time traffic information to cope with the 
digital map for determining the least cost route toward the 
destination. The main contributions include a normalized 
formulation to compute the road cost based on all supported 
road metrics and adopts the adaptive re-routing mechanism. 
Numerical results indicate that D-WAN significantly 
61
