 2
（一）中文摘要 
本計劃提出具有電磁相容特性之行動終端天線的新型設計，設計天線的操作頻段符合現行
之無線通信系統的規範，以內藏式、縮小化、多頻化的技術，建構輕薄短小的幾何結構。
在整合通信系統環境影響的前提下，將行動終端的環境因素，例如金屬隔離器、外殼、與
人體損耗等，列入設計考量。計畫的進行將從多頻操作的微波天線設計開始，使用近場抑
制技術，降低天線輻射體與接地面以及金屬外殼間的電磁耦合，以達成研究目標，使本研
究所提出的行動終端天線設計，具有電磁相容的特性。研究過程中使用本校射頻電路實驗
室與半導體製程無塵室，以雕刻、曝光、顯影、蝕刻、濺鍍、蒸鍍等技術，實際製作電路，
並使用本校網路分析儀與遠場量測系統，以 S 參數與輻射效能來驗證天線的實用性。 
關鍵辭：微帶天線，行動通訊，電磁相容 
 
 
（二）英文摘要 
This plane proposes novel designs of mobile terminal antenna with electromagnetic 
compatibility.. The design’s operation bands conform to the requirements of modern wireless 
communication systems. With techniques of embedding, compactness, and branching, the 
proposed are with characteristics of small size, light weight, compact structure, low profile, and 
multi-band operating. The real constructions of the proposed design are progressed by applying 
techniques of carving, exposure, development, etching, and sputtering. The essential effects, 
caused by shielding case and user, have been considered in this study. Moreover, the 
measurement and simulated results, obtained from network analyzer, far-field measurement 
system and commercial microwave simulation software, demonstrate the design’s effectiveness. 
The electromagnetic compatible mobile terminals will be presented in this study.  
 
Key Word: microstrip antenna, mobile communication, electromagnetic compatibility, Specific 
Absorption Rate 
 
 
 
(三)報告內容－如附錄 
 
 
 4
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
可申請專利  □可技術移轉                                      日期：96 年 8 月 22 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：行動終端天線電磁相容特性之研究 
計畫主持人：林淑芸 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-230 -025 學門領域：電信 
技術/創作名稱 具有電磁相容特性的槽孔天線 
發明人/創作人 林淑芸 
技術說明 
中文： 
隨著科技日新月異，科技產品不斷推陳出新，為因應攜帶
方便及生活便利化之需求，個人化行動通訊系統的尺寸縮
小，而裝置內建的功能越多，整體的零件密度也就相對提
高。為了使裝置內各項功能不致相互引響，模組與模組間
的訊號隔離也就格外重要。近年來，具有電磁相容特性天
線之技術及論文紛紛被探討及發表出來。由於天線是一個
意圖發射元件，電磁波很有可能會引響週遭元件的正常工
作，或是被週遭元件影響其輻射之性能，使得鄰近的元件
誤動作或是天線本身之特性下降等劣勢。在這種情況下，
若天線具有電磁相容能力便可去除這些使功能下降之因
素，也可使天線緊貼鄰近模組而達到節省可用空間及縮小
裝置尺寸之目的。在個人行動裝置中，若是天線不會與鄰
近模組相互產生引響，實現將天線製作成一類似集種元件
形式，可依照裝置整體電路之分佈任意擺放，做機動性的
調整，那將使裝置模組零件之佈置更有彈性，也有助於個
人行動裝置之設計及製造。隨著電磁相容天線技術的成
熟，相關研究及論文的發表也相繼出現。近年來在天線相
關領域之雜誌與論文發表中，不難發現國內外大學皆有針
對天線之電磁相容特性所發出的研究報告，相關論文數量
也有一定程度的成長，可見電磁相容天線逐漸被重視。目
前已有針對全球行動通訊系統（GSM）、數位通訊系統
（DCS）、個人通訊服務系統（PCS）、第三代行動通訊系
統（UMTS）等頻段，以單極天線、倒 F 型天線、補丁天
線等型式呈現，都有相當程度之隔離效果與電磁相容特
性。本技術將針對槽孔天線，提出以穩定的輸入阻抗與彎
折型接地面等二種技術，使其具有電磁相容特性的新型設
計。 
 
 
EMC Monopole Antenna Integrated  
with an L-shaped Ground for Handset Application 
 
Shun-Yun Lin, Cing-Wei Guan*, Shu-Ani Yeh, and Hong-Ren Huang 
Department of Electronics Engineering, Cheng Shiu University, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan. http://www.csu.edu.tw 
 
 
Introduction 
 
Recently, EMC internal antennas suitable for handheld mobile device applications 
have been demonstrated [1–4]. These kinds of internal antenna mainly comprise a 
top radiating patch and a vertical antenna ground portion functioning as a shield. 
Instead of the conventional isolation distance of more than 7 mm, EMC antenna 
can be placed nearby or directly contact with conducting elements or electronic 
components with very slight degradation on the antenna performances. However, 
reported studies of the EMC antenna applied in the mobile phone are either for 
single-band operation [1-2], or single-side shielding protection [3-4] only. A 
novel internal monopole antenna with a vertical L-shaped ground portion for 
electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) with the surrounding conducting elements 
is presented. The proposed antenna had two radiating strips designed to operate at 
about 900 and 1800 MHz for global system for mobile communication (GSM) 
and digital communication system (DSC) operations. Moreover, a right-triangle-
shaped feeding structure and capacitive top loading were used in this study for 
improving impedance matching to achieve the required performances of the 
specific communication systems. In addition, an L-shaped portion, which was 
vertically grounded to the system ground plane of the mobile device, performs in 
both roles of antenna’s ground and shielding wall. With this constitution, the 
antenna can be widthways and lengthways close to the RF shielding- and CCD 
shielding-case of the mobile device, and regardless of degradation in antenna 
performances. This characteristic can result in a compact integration of the 
internal antenna with associated elements in the mobile device.  
 
Antenna Design 
 
Figure 1 shows the geometry of the proposed EMC dual-band antenna applied in 
a mobile device for GSM/DCS operation. The EMC antenna mainly comprising 
two radiating strip and a vertical antenna ground portion was easily fabricated by 
line-cutting or stamping a single metal plate (0.1-mm-thick copper plate is used 
here). The detailed dimensions of the antenna unbent into a planer structure are 
given in Figure 1(b). As we know that the width of the strip noticeably affected 
the impedance bandwidth of the microstrip antenna, all the strip widths (W1, W2, 
and W3) were optimally selected with simulation tool - High Frequency Structure 
Simulator of Ansoft to meet the requirement of the certain communication 
systems. The radiating elements were mainly with one folded strip (path 1) and 
one shorted strip (path 2). The two radiating strips correspond to different 
32931-4244-0878-4/07/$20.00 ©2007 IEEE
included angle θ  was fixed to 40°. From the obtained results, it is seen that not 
only the lower and upper resonant frequencies, but also the impedance matching 
of the lower band is apparently affected. Larger protruded length over the top 
edge of the system ground plane causes two resonant modes more closed.  
 
Conclusion 
 
A novel internal GSM/DCS dual-band antenna with an L-shaped ground for a 
mobile phone has been proposed. With the use of the L-shaped antenna ground, 
the proposed antenna almost shows an EMC property with nearby conducting 
elements inside the mobile phone. Also, good radiation characteristics for 
frequencies over the GSM and DCS bands have also been obtained. These 
characteristics allow the proposed very promising to be embedded inside the 
casing of the mobile phone to operate as an internal antenna.  
 
References: 
[1]  C.M. Su, K.L. Wong, C.L. Tang, and S.H. Yeh, “EMC internal patch 
antenna for UMTS operation in a mobile device,” IEEE Trans Antennas 
Propagat., vol.53, pp.3836–3839, 2005. 
[2]  K.L. Wong and C.H. Chang, “Surface-Mountable EMC monopole chip 
antenna for WLAN operation,” IEEE Trans Antennas Propagat., vol.54, 
pp.1100–1104, 2006. 
[3]  C. M Su, C. H Wu, K. L. Wong, S. H. Yeh, and C. L. Tang, “User’s hand 
effects on EMC Internal gsm/dcs dual-band Mobile phone antenna,” 
Microwave and optical technology letters,  vol. 48, pp.1563-1569, 2006. 
[4]  K. L. Wong and C.I. Lin, “Internal GSM/DCS Antenna Backed by a Step-
Shaped Ground Plane for a PDA Phone,” IEEE Trans Antennas Propagat., 
vol.54, p.2408–2410, 2006. 
Fig. 1(a) Configuration of the proposed internal GSM/DCS antenna with an L-
shaped antenna ground for a mobile phone. (b) Dimensions of the 
antenna unbent into a planer structure. 
 d Shielding case 
(a) 
(b) 
Bent to be L-shaped. 
θ 
3295
A Novel Compact Slot Antenna for Ultra-Wideband Communications 
 
 
Shun-Yun Lin, Hong-Ren Huang*, Cing-Wei Guan,  and Shu-Ani Yeh  
Department of Electronics Engineering, Cheng Shiu University, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan. http://www.csu.edu.tw 
 
 
Introduction 
 
Recently, the Federal Communication Commission (FCC)’s standard for the 
commercial 3.1–10.6 GHz band has attracted much attention on ultra-wideband 
(UWB) antenna technology in the industry and academy. Various antenna 
configurations including planar monopoles, slot antennas and dipoles have been 
studied for UWB applications [1–7].  Among them, planar wide-slot antennas are 
the most eye-catching for its simple geometry, easy fabrication and wide 
impedance bandwidth. Two factors mainly affect the impedance bandwidth: the 
slot’s width and feed shape. For the former, the wider the slot generally causes to 
wider impedance bandwidth. For the later, CPW line through various shapes of 
patch, such as T-shape, cross-shape, fork-like shape, volcano-smoke shape, and 
square-patch-shape, to caused ultra-wide bandwidth has been introduced 
extensively [3-6]. In the recently published manuscripts, a circular slot of radius 
23 mm fed with a 50 Ω CPW line through a circular patch has been reported [3]. 
The antenna occupied dimension of more than 50×50 mm2 and offered 143.2% 
bandwidth (2.3~13.9 GHz). In [4], identifying the antenna’s shape with feeding 
patch induced an impedance bandwidth more than 160% (1.9 ~18 GHz). However, 
it expectably occupied a large dimension of 110×110 mm2. In this design, a 
compact circular slot antenna for ultra-wideband operation is proposed. The small 
antenna, fabricated on an FR4 PCB with ground plane dimension of 30×30 mm2 
and radiating area (π×132) mm2, is fed with a CPW line through a polygonal patch. 
Although the proposed antenna is visibly smaller than the designs in [3-6], it has a 
bandwidth raging from 2.6 GHz to 15 GHz. The characteristics of compact 
dimension and ultra-wide bandwidth indicate that the proposed antenna is suitable 
for the mobile communication device as UWB operation. The simulated and 
measured results for the input reflection and radiation characteristics are presented 
in this article.  
 
Antenna Design 
 
The proposed ultra-wideband slot antenna, fabricated on an FR4 substrate with 
thickness of 1.6 mm and relative permittivity of 4.4, are depicted in Fig. 1 (a). The 
radiation element is a circle-shape slot with radius of 13 mm. Feed shapes 
strongly influence the performances of wide-slot antennas. In this design, we used 
a 50 Ω CPW line through a polygonal patch to excite the slot antenna. It is also 
noticed that a tapered structure associated the CPW line with the feed patch. The 
detailed dimensions of the feeding structure are given in Figure 1(b). Several 
51231-4244-0878-4/07/$20.00 ©2007 IEEE
obtained results show that the proposed antenna occupies a small area and offers a 
large bandwidth from 2.6 to 15 GHz. Furthermore, this antenna radiates 
bidirectionally in the E-plane and omnidirectionally in the H-plane. These 
features make it a good candidate for ultra-wideband wireless applications. 
 
 
References: 
[1]  S. Y. Lin and K. C. Huang, “Printed pentagon monopole antenna with a 
band-notched function,” Microwave and Optical Technology Letters, Vol. 
48, pp. 2016-2018, 2006. 
[2]  S. Y. Lin, “Multi-band planar monopole for handset,” IEEE Transactions 
on Antennas and Propag. , Vol. 7, pp. 1790-1794, July, 2004. 
[3]  T. A. Denidni and M. A. Habib, “Broadband printed CPW-fed circular slot 
antenna,” Electronics Letters, Vol. 42, Feb., 2006. 
[4]  S. W. Qu, C. Ruan, and B. Z. Wang, “Bandwidth enhancement of wide slot 
antenna fed by CPW and microstrip line,” IEEE Antennas and Wireless 
Propagation Letters, vol.5, pp.15–17, 2006. 
[5]  J. Yeo, Y. Lee and R. Mittra, “Wideband slot antennas for wireless 
communications,” IEE Proc.-Microwave Antennas and Propagation, 
vol.151, pp.351–355, 2004. 
[6]  F. Consoli, F. Maimone, and S. Barbarino, “Study of a CPW-fed circular slot 
antenna for UWB communications,” Microwave and Optical Technology 
Letters, Vol. 48, pp. 2272-2277, 2006. 
[7]  S. Y. Lin and S. A. Yeh, “A Double-Sided Printed Double-T-Shaped 
Dipole Antenna for UWB Communications,” will be appeared in 2006 
IEICE symposium on Antennas and Propagation. 
 
Fig. 1 (a) Configuration of the proposed ultra-wideband slot antenna for a 
mobile device. (b) Configuration of the feed patch. 
 
 
(a) (b) 
5125
Double-Sided Printed Vee Dipole Antennas  
for Ultra-Wideband Communications 
 
Shun-Yun Lin and Shu-Ani Yeh 
Department of Electronics Engineering  
Cheng Shiu University 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan 833, R.O.C. 
yun@post.csu.edu.tw 
 
ABSTRACT: This article presents a novel printed vee dipole antenna for ultra-wideband 
operation in 3.1–10.6 GHz complied with FCC’s regulations. One half of the proposed 
antenna was printed on the top layer of the substrate, and another half was placed on the 
bottom layer in different orientation. The whole structure visualized as a “V” shape with an 
included angle. By introducing a suitable included angle and a parasitic element into the 
included space, the proposed antenna achieves the desired ultra-wideband operation and high 
antenna gain of 7.0 dBi.  
 
Key words: dipole antenna, UWB antenna, double-sided antenna 
 1
Slot Antenna with Proximity to Metal Cases 
 
Shun-Yun Lin and Cing-Wei Guan 
Department of Electronics Engineering, Cheng Shiu University 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan 833, R.O.C. 
yun@post.csu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract- This paper presents the simulative and experimental investigations of a printed slot 
antenna. It was a rectangular slot cut in the upper right corner of an originally rectangular ground 
plane. Such fabrications make the ground plane like an orthogonal hexagon. A linear narrow 
strip was constructed and near to the microstrip transmission line, which electromagnetically 
excited the proposed antenna, to introduce a steady equivalence of series capacitances. 
Consequently, the proposed antennas achieve the desired performances in spite of very close 
proximity to the possible shielding metal cases for battery and associated RF module/circuitry. 
Also, the ground plane dimension does not influence slot impedance and bandwidth obviously. 
Experimental results suggest that the proposed antennas are with large tolerance for integrating 
into mobile communication devices. A prototype for DCS/PCS/UMTS/WLAN quad band 
operation is implemented and examined experimentally. 
 
 
 
Index Terms — slot antenna, notch antenna, mobile communication systems,           
handset antenna  
 
 
  
部份同行的人員於小港機場合影 
Poster 會場 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
研究生口頭發表：A Novel Compact Slot Antenna for 
Ultra-Wideband Communications 
tuning portions including patch, natch-1, and notch-2 were embedded to an 
original rectangular patch to form the polygonal shape. The experimental results 
show that the lowest frequency of impedance bandwidth is mainly decided by the 
antenna’s dimension, and the use of the polygonal-shape feed patch largely shifts 
the upper frequency toward higher frequency. That is the polygonal-shape feed 
patch is effective to enhance impedance bandwidth of the circular slot antenna. 
 
Experimental Results and Discussions 
 
For the optimum design to obtain the desired performances, the antenna 
parameters shown in Fig. 1 were selected as Wa = La = 30 mm, R = 13 mm, S = 13 
mm, Lb = 5.25 mm,Lc = 1 mm, Wb = 13 mm, Wc = 11 mm, Wd = 2 mm, tuning 
patch = 1.5 × 5 mm2, notch-1 = 1.25 × 4.5 mm2, notch-2 = 1.25 × 3.5 mm2. The 
measured return loss in Fig. 2 shows that the proposed antenna has a bandwidth 
(VSWR 2.0) more than 140%, ranging from 2.6 to about 15 GHz. This 
characteristic satisfies the requirement (3.1~10.6 GHz) of UWB communication 
system. On the other hand, effects of the feed structure on the performance of the 
proposed antenna were studied. Firstly, the gap g existed between the lowest 
border of the slot and the lowest border of the tuning patch is illustrated. In this 
parameters study, the width of the tuning patch is fixed to be 5 mm, and the other 
parameters are the same as in Fig.2. Fig. 3 shows the return loss against frequency 
for g = 0.3, 0.5, and 0.7 mm, which correspond to a gradually decreased tuning 
patch’s length. It is seen that a larger gap causes the band at about 7 GHz almost 
mismatching. Then, the embedded notches and tuning patch are considered .The 
reference antenna is with a rectangle feed of dimension of 6.5×13 mm2. Antenna-
1, antenna-2 and antenna-3 just embed tuning patch, notch-1 and notch-2 to the 
primary patch, respectively. The proposed antenna is with all embedded portions. 
For each specified prototype, g is 0.3 mm. The simulative results for the 
mentioned prototypes obtained from the Ansoft simulation software HFSS are 
shown in Fig. 4. The experimental results indicate that the lowest frequency is 
mainly decided by the antenna’s dimension. Furthermore, although every 
embedded portion make slight contribution to impedance matching in the desired 
band, however, associating with all the tuning portions largely improve the 
impedance matching of the higher band. This characteristic generates a large 
enhancement of 10 dB impedance bandwidth. Also, the radiation characteristics 
were studied. The measured radiation patterns indicate that the radiations in the 
H-plane are almost omnidirectional through the whole operating band. This 
characteristic makes the proposed antenna suitable for wireless communications. 
In addition, experimental result shows that the maximum measured antenna gain 
in H-plane is about 4.3 dBi, and the gain variation throughout the operating 
bandwidth is less than 3 dBi. 
 
Conclusions 
 
A broadband printed slot antenna has been demonstrated experimentally. The 
antenna is a circular slot fed by a CPW line through a polygonal patch. The 
5124
 
 
Fig. 2 The measured and simulated 
return-loss of the proposed 
antenna shown in Fig. 1. 
Fig. 2 Measured return-loss for 
various gap g. 
Fig. 4 (a) Measured return-loss of the proposed antenna shown in Fig. 1. with 
various feed shape. (b) The corresponding feed patch. 
 
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
ref
antenna-1
antenna-2
antenna-3
proposed
 
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
measured
simulated
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
g = 0.3mm
0.5mm
0.7mm
 
5126
resonant lengths. The path 1, with length of (2L＋W－W1－W2), is about to a 
quarter-wavelength of the frequency at about 900 MHz operating, and the path 2 
with length of L1 is about one eighth wavelength at about 1800 MHz operating. 
The folded one and shorted one were designed to generate two resonant modes for 
GSM and DCS operation, respectively. The operating principle is similar to the 
conventional monopole and PIFA antenna. Otherwise, two strategies were applied 
to lead to a significant improvement in impedance matching. The first one is a 
right-triangle-shaped feeding, which was with an included angle θ  and aligned to 
the strip AB. The next is a capacitive top loading, which was caused by the 
equivalent capacitive structure consisting of strip CD and system ground plane. 
The experimental results show that the mentioned strategies are effective in 
improving impedance matching. On the other hand, the antenna ground, which 
was bended to be an L-shaped plate and vertically connected to the system ground 
plane, also acts as a shielding wall to effectively block the possible fringing EM 
fields from interfering with other RF modules of the mobile phone. In this case, 
the EM compatibility of the antenna with possible nearby conducting elements 
can be obtained. 
 
Experimental Results and Discussions 
 
The optimum design for GSM/DCS dual band operation is studied experimentally. 
Fig. 2 shows the measured return loss of the proposed antenna without the 
presence of the shielding metal cases. From the measured data, two resonant 
modes are successfully excited. For the proposed antenna with the definition of 
2.5:1 VSWR, the lower resonant mode at about 900 MHz shows an impedance 
bandwidth of 87 MHz (880~967 MHz) meeting the required bandwidth of the 
GSM system. On the other hand, the upper resonant mode at about 1800 MHz has 
an impedance bandwidth of 176 MHz (1702~1893 MHz), which also satisfies the 
required bandwidth of the DCS system. In addition, the condition with the 
presence of the shielding metal cases was also studied, and the results of the 
measured return loss are shown in Fig. 3. It is clearly seen that even the shielding 
metal cases was placed in contact with the proposed antenna (d = 0), very small 
variations in the impedance matching of the both resonant modes are obtained. 
These results indicate that the conventional isolation distance between radiation 
element and RF shielding modules is not needed anymore for the proposed 
antenna with L-shaped antenna ground. 
To study the effectiveness of the feeding structure and antenna’s protruded 
length over the top edge of the system ground plane on impedance matching, 
simulation studies using Ansoft simulation software HFSS were conducted. Fig. 4 
and Fig. 5 show the simulated return loss as functions of the included angle θ  of 
the right-triangle feeding structure and the protruded length g, respectively. Other 
parameters were the same as studied in Fig. 2. For each specified value of θ, the 
antenna’s protruded length g was 3.5 mm. The experimental results shown in Fig. 
4 indicate that the impedance matching is obviously improved with increased θ. 
However, the impedance bandwidth of the lower band is slight decrease as θ is 
large than 40°. Thus, for g = 0.5, 1.5, 2.5, 3.5, and 4.5 mm studied in Fig. 5, the 
3294
