??????????????????(I)
Effects of contextual variation on reading dynamic information for mobile devices
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-130-021-
執行期限：97年8月1日至98年10月31日
主持人：簡佑宏＜銘傳大學商品設計學系＞
????
過去研究指出快速序列視覺呈現技術為一種以時間換取空間的動態資訊呈現技術，應
用於解決小螢幕資訊量呈現不足的限制。然而相關研究幾乎多在實驗室中進行，以桌上型
電腦模擬行動設備介面讓受測者以坐姿進行靜態閱讀。由於行動設備最主要的特徵即具備
移動性，讓使用者於行進、移動的情境下使用該設備。有關透過行動設備閱讀動態文本的
議題，應進一步瞭解使用者在行走時使用動態呈現對閱讀之影響。因此，本研究即探討使
用者在走路情境下，兩個重要的動態呈現因子[呈現方式(單詞為單位和一行為單位)和配速
(182, 232, 282, 332 cpm)]與受測者閱讀理解力之間的關係。結果顯示，以單詞為文本呈現單
位搭配 332 cpm 的配速，使用者有較佳的理解力成績；若欲採用一行為文本呈現單位時，
應採用較低的 282 cpm 配速。未來相關研究可更進一步以更具真實的使用情境探討行動設
備動態文本的閱讀。
???：動態呈現、行動設備、快速序列視覺呈現、閱讀、行走
Abstract
Previous studies have shown that dynamic displays during rapid serial visual presentation
(RSVP) privilege temporal rather that spatial information in overcoming the limits of small
screens. Such studies have been conducted under stationary or idealized conditions using
traditional desktop-paradigm evaluation strategies, resulting in deficient understandings of how
changes in motion afect users’ ability to perform efectively. This study examined the impact of 
two important dynamic display factors on the reading comprehension achieved by participants
while walking on a predefined path and standing: word-by-word and one-line presentation
formats and presentation rates of 182, 232, 282, and 332 characters per minute (cpm). The results
of this study showed that an RSVP display can represent an alternative for reading textual
information when a word-by-word format is presented with a 332-cpm presentation rate. When
the one-line presentation format is used, however, a lower presentation rate of 282 cpm should be
chosen. Future research should attempt to simulate real life more closely and explore the effects
of the multiple functions performed by various RSVP displays on reading comfort and
comprehension.
Keywords: dynamic display, mobile device, rapid serial visual presentation, reading, walking
1 Introduction
Reading represents a fundamental function of mobile devices. Indeed, reading text displayed
on mobile phones, smartphones, personal digital assistants (PDAs), or wearables while walking is
a common daily activity for most mobile users. For example, users can read text messages sent by
colleagues as they are hurrying to meetings and can search for telephone numbers while walking
to restaurants. A small screen size represents a key characteristic contributing to the portability of
mobile devices. However, the advantage presented by small screen size in terms of portability
also represents a disadvantage because of the consequent constriction of the displayed
information (Lemarié et al., 2008). Rapid serial visual presentation (RSVP) has emerged as a
possible approach to overcoming the limited display size of mobile devices. RSVP trades small
screen space for time and presents temporal information in a dynamic manner (de Bruijn et al.,
2002). In essence, RSVP displays one or several words in rapid succession within the dimensions
of small screen. This method has been presumed to offer the advantage of eliminating eye
presentation rates of 305 and 350 cpm, which are higher than the standard reading rate of 282
cpm, might be adopted. However, these findings were generated using simulated small screens of
mobile devices presented on desktop computers without considering the demands on working
memory and resources associated with reading on the go. The appropriate presentation rate of
RSVP displays for Chinese text might be lower than the standard reading speed of 282 cpm when
mobile devices are used in dynamic contexts such as walking. Consequently, the optimal speed
setting requires further consideration.
Presentation format also represents an important feature of RSVP display that affects the
reading performances of users. Several presentation formats, including character-by-character,
word-by-word, phrase-by-phrase, and single-line, have been examined (Chen & Chien, 2005b,
Lin & Shieh, 2006, Chen & Chien, 2007, Chien et al., 2008). Results of these studies have shown
that word-by-word and one-line formats can be used with an appropriate speed setting.
However, efforts to optimize the reading of Chinese text using RSVP displays on the small
screens of mobile devices must consider that use-in-motion contexts might afect users’ reading 
comprehension. Hence, the effects of presentation format for RSVP displays must use real mobile
devices and consider situations in which reading is done on the go. Consequently, this study
examined the impact of the presentation format and presentation rate of RSVP displays on users’ 
comprehension of material presented on small screens in mobile devices during an in-motion
scenario. The results of this study might contribute an additional degree of rigor to the extant
research on RSVP display. These results can assist all researchers and practitioners who are
interested in incorporating motion into studies of RSVP displays, mobile device portability, and
mobile device use.
2 Methodology
2.1 Participants
Sixteen native speakers of Chinese with normal or corrected-to-normal vision who were
undergraduate students between the ages of 17 and 24 years (M16 = 19.63, SD = 1.36) participated
in this study. Eight participants were men and 8 were women. All participants owned a mobile
phone and had at least two years of experience reading instant messages or website information
on mobile devices.
2.2 Apparatus and materials
The Sony Ericsson K610i, with a display resolution of 176 × 220 pixels, was used in this
study. Stimulus materials consisted of 16 experimantal passages and 8 pratice passages. The
passages ranged from 112 to 140 Chinese characters, with an average of 131 Chinese characters.
The passage content was chosen from the Chinese edition of the magazine Cheers. Chinese
characters were presented in 12-point true type font, which is the default font frequently used to
present Chinese characters on small screen device displays.
2.3 Design
This study examined the effects of two important RSVP display factors on reading
comprehension during two different scenarios. A 2 × 4 × 2 mixed experimental design was used
in this study. Of the three independent variables, presentation format (word-by-word and on-line
format) and speed (182, 232, 282, and 332 cpm) were repeated measurements, whereas the
scenario in which reading of the RSVP display occurred (standing or walking along a predefined
path) served as the between-subjects variable.
Participants were matched for age and sex and divided equally between the two scenario
groups. As noted above, the presentation formats used in this study, word-by-word and one-line,
are viable formats for presenting RSVP display information (Fig. 1) (Chen & Chien, 2005b, 2007,
Chien et al., 2008). The speed of 282 cpm (Chan & Lee, 2005), the standard time for reading
Chinese text on a computer display, as well as 182, 232, and 332 cpm served as the four
presentation rates. The scenario in which participants read the RSVP display while walking
involved walking around a path of about 35 meters in a laboratory environment. Fig. 2 shows the
2.5 Analysis
Reading comprehension scores, measured by dividing the number of correct responses by the
total number of answers in each trial, served as the dependent variable. A repeated-measures
analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used in this study. This statistical test determines whether
more than two sample means are equal. The test uses the F-distribution (probability distribution)
function and information about the variances within each sample and between groups of
samples to determine if the variability within and between samples are significantly different.
Thus, I used ANOVA to compare differences between the two presentation formats, among the
four presentation rates, and between the two reading scenarios. Statistical significance was
defined as p < 0.05.
Figure 3 Answer choice screen shot.
3 Results
Table 1 presents the mean percentage of correct answers for each independent variable, and
Table 2 shows the results of the ANOVA.
TABLE 1 Mean comprehension scores under each condition of the independent variables
3.1 Effect of RSVP display factors on reading comprehension
The mean percentages of correct answers (comprehension rates) were 84.4% and 74.2% for
word-by-word and one-line formats, respectively. When the presentation rates were 182, 232,
Figure 5 Participants’ mean comprehension rates for RSVP display information under each
presentation format at different presentation rates.
3.2 Effect of scenario on reading comprehension
The comprehension rates for the walking and standing reading scenarios were 82.8% and
75.8%, respectively. The results of the ANOVA indicated that reading scenario did not
significantly affect reading comprehension rates (F1,14 = 2.908, p = 0.11).
4 Discussion
The use of mobile devices for wireless text messaging has exploded in recent years. Mobile
users must have the ability to read on the go. This study examined in-motion reading
comprehension among users of a mobile device with RSVP displays.
The rate and format characterizing the presentation of the Chinese RSVP display represent
two significant factors that had interactive effects on the reading comprehension of participants. A
simple interaction effects test indicated: (1) no significant differences in the reading
comprehension rates among the four presentation rates of 182, 232, 282, and 332 cpm when the
presentation format was word-by-word; (2) significantly lower reading comprehension rates in
response to the slowest and fastest presentation rates (182 and 332 cpm, respectively) versus
presentation rates of 232 and 282 cpm when the one-line presentation format was used.
Previous Chinese RSVP display studies examining user reading comprehension under stationary
conditions have shown that users achieve better reading comprehension with a word-by-word
format presented at a rate of 305 to 350 cpm (Lin & Shieh, 2006, Chen & Chien, 2007, Chien et
al., 2008). The first results of the simple interaction effect test were consistent with those of
previous studies examining reading comprehension under stationary conditions, even though
participants in this study were reading while walking around a predefined path (Lin & Shieh,
2006, Chen & Chien, 2007, Chien et al., 2008). A presentation rate of 332 cpm, which is higher
than the standard reading time of 282 cpm (Chan & Lee, 2005), can be adopted for RSVP
displays with word-by-word formats. RSVP presents text at a fixed visual location in successive
self-paced segments of one or several words; this process simulates the visual experience of
normal reading but eliminates the need for eye movement. By using the RSVP display,
participants in this study received more information because reading times were reduced by
eliminating eye movement; however, visual performance under the walking condition was not
comparably diminished. Moreover, most Chinese text is presented in a character-by-character
format, and users must allocate part of their cognitive resources to divide the characters into the
smallest meaningful units. The word-by-word format divides Chinese characters in advance, thus
providing perceptual cues for semantic access, thereby reducing the cognitive load of readers and
promoting reading comprehension of dynamic text. Consequently, mobile users can perform
better on reading comprehension tests when the display speed is set at the highest rate, 332 cpm,
when the text is divided into meaningful units in advance. The second result of the simple
interaction effect test regarding the two RSVP display factors showed that a slower presentation
rate of 282 cpm, rather than 332 cpm, was optimal when a one-line presentation format was used
and the benefit of inter-word spacing was absent. Indeed, spaces between words are essential for
reducing the extra processing and cognitive load involved in word segmentation while reading
Chinese dynamic text.
Previous mobile HCI studies comparing reading performances under stationary and walking
conditions have shown that using a mobile device while moving is associated with decreased
performance (Brewster, 2002, Kjeldskov & Stage, 2004). The results of this study showed that
the mean comprehension rates for dynamic text under walking and standing conditions were
75.8% and 82.8%, respectively. The mean comprehension scores decreased by approximately 8.5
% (82.8% - 75.8%/82.8%) under the walking condition compared to the standing condition.
However, results of the ANOVA did not show a significant difference in mean comprehension
rates between the walking and standing scenarios. Once again, an RSVP display emerged as a
possibly viable candidate to replace a normal page display when the display size is small and the
J. Kjeldskov and J. Stage, “New techniques for usability evaluation of mobile systems,” Int J
Hum–Comput St 60/5-6, 599-620 (2004).
L. Lichtenstein, J. Barabas, R. L. Woods, and E. Peli, “Maintaining position and display 
perspective in a walking simulator while self-pacing on a treadmil,” SID Symposium Digest
Tech Papers 37/1, 295–298 (2006).
M. Olkkonen and T. Mustonen, “Estimating text legibility of a mobile display on the basis of 
translational vibration caused by walking,” J Soc Inf Display 13/8, 657-663 (2005).
D. Meister, Conceptual Foundations of Human Factors Measurement (Lawrence Erlbaum
Associates, New Jersey, 2004).
J. Norman, Chinese (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1988).
C. H. Chen and Y. H. Chien, “Efects of RSVP display design on visual performance in 
accomplishing dual tasks with smal screens,” Int J Design 1/1, 27-35 (2007).
Y. H. Chien,C. H. Chen, and W. L. Wei, “Efects of dynamic display, presentation method, speed, 
and task type on reading comprehension of wristwatch screens,” Displays 29/5, 471-477
(2008).
Y. C. Lin and K. K. Shieh, “Reading a dynamic presentation of Chinese text on a single-line
display,” Displays 27/4-5, 145-152 (2006).
K. K. Shieh, S. H. Hsu, and Y. C. Lin, “Dynamic Chinese text on a single-line display: Effects of
presentation mode,” Percept Motor Skill 100, 1021-1035 (2005).
A. H. Wang and Y. F. Kan, “Efects of display type, speed, and text/background
colour-combination of dynamic display on users’ comprehension for dual tasks in reading 
static and dynamic information,” Int J Adv Manuf Tech 23/1-2, 133-138 (2004).
A. H. S. Chan and P. S. K. Lee, “Efect of display factors on Chinese reading times,
comprehension scores and preferences,” Behav Inform Tech 24/2, 81-91 (2005).
10. GENDER AND WORK
11. HEALTHCARE
12. MANUFACTURING
13. MINING
14. MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDER
15. ONLINE COMMUNITIES
16. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGN AND MANAGEMENT
17. PRIMARY INDUSTRIES
18. PROCESS CONTROL
19. PRODUCT DESIGN
20. PSYCHOPHYSIOLOGY
21. QUALITY MANAGEMENT
22. SAFETY AND HEALTH
23. SIMULATION AND VIRTUAL ENVIRONMENTS
24. SLIPS, TRIPS, AND FALLS
25. TRANSPORT ERGONOMICS
26. WORK WITH COMPUTING SYSTEMS
?????????
此次參加研討會攜回之資料包括：研討會之議程書面資料及研討會論文集全文光碟，
研討會網站http://www.iea2009.org。
?????????
參與此次研討會後，筆者認為經由此次研討會讓深切體認參加國際性學術會議乃參與
世界學術舞台的主要方式。透過參與不同的國外相關研討會，不但可多方吸收世界各地學
者們的研究成果，開闊視野、提昇學識涵養，更可達到協助國內設計相關課題的研究發展
與應用。因此，筆者建議在政策上持續支持，鼓勵更多此領域專家、學者之積極參與。
近年來世界各國在人因相關研究議題的發展方向上雖然略有不同，但大多數仍努力積
極地尋求「人因」所能帶來的無形力量；且部份發表成果已被其他不同領域接受與讚賞。
因此，藉由參與國際性的研討會議交換彼此的心得與經驗是相當具有價值的。未來針對此
類專業組織或會議建議我政府能持續鼓勵推動，讓國內學者有機會參與，將所獲得的資料
提供國內人因相關產業作為參考依據，且能加速國內人因相關研究發展，實可謂一舉數得。
筆者參與此次研討會的照片如下圖1-4：
圖1 論文海報 圖2 筆者攝於海報論文發表會場
計畫編號 NSC 97-2221-E-130-021-
計畫名稱 情境變化對行動設備動態資訊閱讀的影響(I)
出國人員姓名 簡佑宏
服務機關及職稱 銘傳大學商品設計學系專任助理教授
會議時間與地點 98年1月22-24日新加坡
會議名稱 Computer Science and Information Technology (ICCET 2009)
發表論文題目 Ergonomic Evaluation of Small-screen Leading Displays on the Visual
Performance of Chinese Users
?????
「The International Association of Societies of Design Research 2009」係國際性之學術及
論文研究發表會議，由「國際電腦科學與資訊科技組織（International Association of Computer
Science and Information Technology (IACSIT)」主辦。本會議自98年1月22日至98年1月24日
在新加坡（The Hong Kong Polytechnic University）舉行，為期四天，為一年一度IACSIT的
大事。此次研討會文章的接受率為49.3 %，接受的文章集結成兩冊，收錄於EI Compendex,
INSPEC, Thomson ISI, IEEE XploreTM等檢索系統。研討會議的流程包括專題演講、講授（習）
會、論文發表及相關書籍展覽活動。本次研討會之日程與活動內容如下：1/22註冊日、1/23
開幕主題演講(Keynote speech)、1/24論文發表會。
本次研討會共有六個Sessions，此次投稿參與此次研討會的論文題目為“Ergonomic
Evaluation of Small-screen Leading Displays on the Visual Performance of Chinese Users”，被安
排在24日第三個Session。此次參與研討會的文章收錄於研討會論文集第一冊的157-160中，
該論文集的ISBN號碼為978-0-7695-3521-0。相關此次研討會的照片如下圖5：
圖5 會場照片
?????????
參加此次研討會，大會提供由IEEE協會所出版之攜回之研討會論文集和收據，研討會
網站http://www.iccet.org。
??
本人此次出國參加IEA 2009國際研討會，獲國科會經費補助，在此謹致謝忱。
?????(?????)
entrepreneurs have jumped on the bandwagon and
shape the competitive industry.
This study focuses on exploring the consumers’ 
emotional perception and preference in order to help
designers on designing and developing Taiwanese
cultural and creative products could get a better
understanding of customers. Especially, this paper
establishes a cultural product design model that can
provide product designers a shorter design cycles
and improve the product quality.
Emotional Durability
Emotion is holistic and an effect of the overall
quality of the product or service, and the universal,
cultural, and personal values of the user.
Furthermore, emotion is one of the strongest
differentiators in user experience namely because it
triggers unconscious responses to a product, picture,
printing, website, environment or interface.
Our feelings strongly influence our perceptions
and often frame how we think about or refer to our
experiences at a later date. Emotional values may
differ for different product types. For some product
categories, they are more important than for others,
i.e. comparing watches with garden tools
(McDonagh et al., 2002). On the other hand, the
issue of emotional design is now gradually regards
as a trend in current design industry. In addition to
apply the human’s emotional perceptions into 
product design, it also discusses how to transfer the
human feelings between products and consumers.
Most importantly, emotional durability is almost
linked to values. Some of our values we shared with
all humans, and some differ across cultures,
especially the direct impact from our own culture.
Cultural and Creative Industry
In the last decades, cultural and creative industry
forms the core activity of a growing section of the
global economy, and these non-tangible creative
industries capitalistically generating wealth through
the creation and exploitation of intellectual property
or through the provision of creative services. The
Creative Industries Mapping Document 2001
provides an overview of the creative industries in
the UK. The creative professional workforce is
becoming a more integral part of industrialized
nations' economies. Creative professions include
writing, art, design, theater, television, radio, motion
pictures, related crafts, as well as marketing,
strategy, some aspects of scientific research and
development, product development, some types of
teaching and curriculum design, and more. Since
many creative professionals (actors and writers, for
example) are also employed in secondary
professions, estimates of creative professionals are
often inaccurate. By some estimates, approximately
10 million US workers are creative professionals;
depending upon the depth and breadth of the
definition, this estimate may be double.
In the beginning of 21 century, cultural and
creative industry is regarded as an important
socio-economic policy for the perspective
development in Taiwan. Critical analysis of
socio-cultural factors in products provides a new
way of assessing users’ needs, preferences, and 
concerns. From the design point of view, a culture
structure with multiple layers, including layers
representing artifacts, values, and basic assumptions.
These layers are identified by key design attributes,
including attributes that reflect function, aesthetics,
and symbols. Accordingly, this research strictly
aims at leading to users who have been provided
with pleasurable and cherished merchandise, rather
than merely functional and usable products.
LITERATURE REVIEW
Culture and Cultural Design Features
In the 21 century’s global economy, we need to 
develop a genetic channel in order to link the local
culture and design business. The critical issue not
only could add the native cultural value of a nation,
but also would create successful cultural products
and the core of their value.
Culture has been caled “the way of life for an 
entire society” (Leong and Clark, 2003). That is, 
various cultures in different area are always
associated with their locally social groups or
residents. However, culture is composed of
multi-layers. Stephan (2004) advocated that culture
illustrates the detailed procedure for extracting
cultural features from a cultural object. After that,
product designers apply these features to redesign
innovative Taiwanese-style merchandise for
promoting into the global economic market.
RESEARCH METHOD
Framework of Research Design
A science for design simply cannot follow in the
footsteps of the natural sciences as so many new
scientific disciplines try to do (Krippendorff, 2006).
Many design methods are introduced and applied
today for encouraging the creation for design, such
as brainstorming, narratives, interviews, surveys,
focus groups, observations, protocol analysis,
ethnography, etc. Among these effective
methodologies, the concept of visual product
evaluation has been widely applied in many design
projects for alternatives selection during the initial
stage of product design and development
(McDonagh-Philp, 1999; Bruseberg and
McDonagh-Philp, 2001). The concept of research
design applied on this research bases on the human
being’s instinctive perceptions in visualization. It 
integrates the product personality profiling (PPP) as
a technique for design researchers/designers, and
associates it with image boards and intuitive visual
evaluation survey to elicit customers’ need and 
aspiration towards products. On the one hand, two
techniques of PPP and image boards are
manipulated during focus group interview sessions
with professionals. On the other hand, the intuitive
visual evaluation survey is used to assess users’ 
emotional relationships with designed products.
Product personality profiling taps into the users'
perceptions of who they feel particular products are
aimed at through the PPP questionnaire; that is, it
seems similar to the design method - Persona which
virtually described some specific personality of the
role and has ever been applied in a number of design
projects. Image boards are used sequentially by
three different presentation panels including
lifestyle board, mood board, and theme board to
express emotions regarding products, tasks, or
situations through image collages. Finally, from the
viewpoints of marketing and sales profit aspects, the
visual product evaluation elicits initial reactions to
products, based on product appearance only, to
simulate retail showroom scenarios, mail order,
and/or Internet purchasing. Simultaneously, the
questionnaire survey is conducted to find out the
customers’ preference, suitability, intent of purchase, 
and desired reasonable price with these developed
merchandise.
The conceptual framework of this integrated
approach is shown in Fig. 2, and four stages of this
research are divided to depict briefly as follows:
Figure 2 Framework of this research
1. Archival research. To explore related issues
from journal papers or reference books to help
finding the background theories and motivation
about this study. The content analysis is mainly
divided into culture, creativity, and emotion design
three issues to be discussed in the first stage.
2. Research methodology. From the viewpoint of
understanding the consumers’ emotional perceptions
and preference, a framework of research model is
developed by there integrated approaches included
PPP, image boards, and intuitive visual evaluation.
3. Product design and development. After
defining a specific “Persona” who is named and 
owns an apparent product personality profiling,
simultaneously, image boards are revealed by a
focus group discussion. Product designers then are
assigned to proceed to complete the stage of product
design and development.
4. Evaluation. The final stage is an intuitive
visual evaluation taken place with questionnaire
survey. It is useful to retrieve information or
Culture issue Creativity issue Emotional issue
Consumers’perception
Product design & development
PPP Image boards Evaluation
Visual assessment
1
2
3
4
to express. This technique usually manipulates
within a focus group session, participants may either
be asked to create their own image boards or may
choose from a set of pre-selected images.
Intuitive Visual Evaluation
Visual product evaluation with human beings’ 
intuition elicits initial emotional perception and
preference on products. Based on the product
appearance including shape, form, color, assembly,
texture, material, etc., consumers are easily to
illustrate and simulate the retail showroom scenarios,
mail order catalogues, television shopping channels,
and Internet on-line purchasing. One key element
that contributes to a product’s success is its visual 
impact; therefore, capturing customers’ immediate 
visual evaluation of products enables the designer(s)
to collect more information and product attributes
that are perceived as valuable insights.
The manipulation of visual product evaluation use
questionnaire for surveying consumers’ perception 
and preference within a limited time and product
information. The information that are relied upon
the product’s atributes including shape, the use of 
materials, assembly of components, color,
texture-felt, and product semantics, etc.
PROCEDURE
Focus Group
Focus group is traditional market research
technique, originaly caled “focused interview” or 
“group depth interview”. This technique was 
developed after World War II to evaluate audience
response to radio programs (Stewart & Shamdasani,
1990). The definition of a “focus group” is a group 
of individuals having some common interest or
characteristics, brought together by a moderator,
who uses the group and its interaction as a way to
gain information or hold certain beliefs about a
specific topic or program of interest.
Focus groups are favorites when product
developers are at a loss as to how their own and
their competitors’ products are perceived 
(Krippendorff, 2006). Typically, a focus group is a
moderated, unstructured discussion among eight to
twelve invited users or potential users, who are
selected because of their certain characteristics in
common, of your site. Generally, a focus group
usually lasts around two hours to talk about a
product, advertisement, practice, or problem, and
covers a range of topics that you decide on
beforehand. The moderator creates a permissive and
nurturing environment that encourages different
perceptions and points of view, without pressuring
participants to vote, plan or reach consensus
(Krueger, 1988). The group discussion is conducted
with careful and systematic analysis which provides
clues and insights as to how a product, service, or
opportunity is perceived by the group.
This qualitative technique is employed in this
study by asking participants/experts to achieve a
consensus which includes two focus group
discussions: product personality profiling and image
boards. Both of these sessions provided additional
stimuli for their judgments. This focus group
consisted of five professionals who all have engaged
in cultural product design for two years and above.
The part of PPP session provides 9 pieces of
pre-selected products which are prevailing on the
current marketplace in Taiwan, 5 pieces accessories
shown in Fig. 4(a) are selected from fashion market
and 4 pieces necklaces shown in Fig. 4(b) are
well-sold merchandise reported on a famous
magazine. Participants are asked to imagine these
products as a person with a particular personality,
and then fill in a questionnaire which depicts
information regarding specific represented character
and lifestyle (e.g. gender, age, hobby, food, drink,
music, occupation…etc.). This session is lasting 
about two and half hours in terms of the human
visual sensitivity entirely, and the final version of
PPP in this questionnaire reveals social value
systems and emotional responses to these presented
products.
Figure 4(a) The pre-selected products from fashion
market
being provided (McDonagh et al., 2002).
Figure 7 Three categories image boards for focus
group discussion
Before the screening process in focus group, three
sets of images are collected as stimuli by the
researchers, which is with 50 pieces per set (Fig. 7).
Then, the procedure of selection is conducted as
card sorting in KJ method by these experts in two
rounds, which is illustrated in Fig. 8. Twenty photos
are unselected as disagreeable images in first round
for each category. Then, the 15 photos are selected
from the rest of thirty photos as the final images to
meet their consensus in second round. As a result of
it, screened photos for lifestyle boards, mood boards,
and theme boards are shown in Fig. 9.
Figure 8 The procedure of selecting image boards
Product Design
After completing the archival research and focus
group discussion stages, researchers set the design
studio by posting Nicole’s PPP and image boards 
for the product design stage:
Figure 9 Screened image boards
Figure 10 A scene in the design studio
Fig. 10 shows that three designers are invited to
execute their design projects in the design studio
provided with the outcomes and information of
focus group session. According to these emotional
responses and cultural implication, designers rely on
the apparent personality of Nicole and abstract
image boards to identify the verbal and nonverbal
communication. Then, they complete three pieces of
final artwork through the general product design
process step by step. They begin with drawing a
large amount of sketches for securing some valuable
ideas. Followed by making effort on those idea
sketching, each designer is asked to consider
deliberately the detail design stage and draw the
renderings from those selected concepts/or design
alternatives. In the final stage, three pieces of
artwork are hand-made by three designers. Fig.
11(a), (b), and (c) show three hand-made necklace
design process of cultural and creative merchandise.
Design Evaluation
Capturing consumers’ immediate visual 
evaluation of existing or conceptual products can
help the design team secure further insight into
Mood board
X 50 pcs
Stimuli for focus group
1st time
Selection
Lifestyle board
X 50 pcs
Theme board
X 50 pcs
Disagreeable
X 20 pcs
Disagreeable
X 20 pcs
Disagreeable
X 20 pcs
Agreeable
X 15 pcs
Agreeable
X 15 pcs
Agreeable
X 15 pcs
Screened image boards
2nd time
Selection
Table 3 The outcomes of evaluation survey
1. visual appeals product A product B product C
(a) shape and styling* 3.41±0.76 4.22±0.91 3.78±0.94
(b) color* 3.28±0.77 4.41±0.71 3.47±0.88
(c) use of materials* 3.53±0.72 3.94±0.76 3.66±0.75
(d) size and weight* 3.72±0.81 4.03±0.69 3.44±0.80
2. like features lovely, friendly,
colorful, gallant
classic, elegant,
beautiful,
attractive
lovely, pleased,
interesting
3. dislike features over-decorative － austere, frigid
4. prior knowledge** ●●●● ●● ●●●
5. suitability** ●●● ●●●●● ●●●●
6. purchase intent** ●● ●●●● ●●●●
7. cost estimation NT$320~350 NT$500~580 NT$420~480
* rating scales ranging from 1 (very poor) to 5 (very good)
** the quantity of「●」indicates the extent of survey results (1~5)
Table 3 shows several viewpoints analyzed from
this survey including visual appeals (shape and
styling, color, use of materials, size and weight), the
like and dislike features about the appearance of
these products. In addition, the researchers also
hope to find out whether they have got any previous
knowledge of these products, whether these
products would suit their needs, whether they would
like to buy these products, and ask them to estimate
the retail prices of these products.
The statistical results in each visual appeal are
presented and indicated by the format of mean and
standard deviation (e.g. 3.2±0.8). To sum up,
product B is the most popular design product to
these participants, the second is product C, and
product A is the last. As to the like features about
three products, participants mentioned at a high
frequency with semantic adjectives on product A are
lovely, friendly, colorful, and gallant; on product B
are classic, elegant, beautiful, and attractive; and on
product C are lovely, pleased, and interesting.
Conversely, the dislike features depicted on product
A is over-decorative; on product C are austere and
frigid; and no any uncomfortable comments on
product B. Furthermore, the investigation of
previous knowledge on these products, suitability,
and purchase intent for participants is shown the
degree of these attributes. Finally, the estimation of
retail cost on product A is NT$320-350; product B
is NT$500-580; and product C is NT$420-480.
CONCLUSION REMARKS
In order to achieve successful innovation requires
a deep understanding of what is meaningful to
customers and the marketplace. Similarly, exploring
the consumers’ perceptions and preference by 
applying a visual evaluation approach that actually
improves creativity rather than hinders it, designers
can successfully create more effective concepts and
final artworks. This research will take a deep look at
what could make the cultural and creative
merchandise’s innovation initiatives succeed, and
how this design methodology can be used
effectively to foster innovation.
Emotional Perception
Emotional durability becomes a globally
important issue in the related discipline of product
design these years. Undoubtedly, the perspective of
Taiwan local culture will become a crucial element
in future design applications. Therefore, the
proposed visual evaluation model for cultural
product design in this study hopefully could benefit
both industries and designers in cultural and
creative merchandise for further development.
The research tools applied in this paper bring
many benefits, including the followings: (1)
consumers' goals and needs become a common
point of focus for the team; (2) the team can
concentrate on designing for a manageable PPP and
a set of image boards knowing that these photos for
“a person”-Persona represent the needs of many
consumers; (3) by always asking, "Would Nicole
use this?" the team can avoid the trap of building
what consumers ask for rather than what they will
actually use; (4) design efforts can be prioritized
based on the PPP; (5) disagreements over design
decisions can be sorted out by referring back to the
PPP; and (6) designs can be constantly evaluated
against the PPP.
Contribution and Further Expectation
Springer, pp.3-12.
Spencer-Oatey, H. (2000). Culturally speaking:
Managing rapport through talk across cultures.
London: Continuum.
Stewart, D. W., and Shamdasani, P. N. (1990).
Focus groups: Theory and practice. Applied
Social Research Methods Series, 20, Newbury
Park, CA: Sage Publications.
Stephan, D. (2004). An overview of intercultural
research: The current state of knowledge, London:
CEE.
Ulrich, K.T. and Eppinger, S.D. (2003). Product
Design and Development. New York:
McGraw-Hill, Inc.
Yair, K., Press, M., and Tomes, A. (2001). Crafting
competitive advantage: Crafts knowledge as a
strategic redource. Design Studies, 22(4),
pp.377-394.
with attention focusing on the dynamic displays. For instance, users can read dynamic
information showed on a single-line display of a facsimile machine, and the tasks of searching
and pressing keypads have to be accompanied with simultaneously. Consequently, it is important
to address the disconnection between the actual use of leading display and the effects of
leading-display factors on users’ visual performance in terms of dual-task scenario.
Figure 1. Example of the experimental interface used in this study
2. Method
We conducted a 3 × 2 × 5 repeated-measures dual-task experiment to examine the effects of
speed at 250, 350, and 450 characters per minute (cpm). Speed settings were based on the studies
of Chien & Chen [2], Lin & Shieh [3],Shieh & Lin [4], Wang, et al. [6], Wang & Chen [7], and
Wang & Kan [8]; presentation mode (character-by-character or word-by-word) was based on
studies by Chien & Chen [2], Lin & Shieh [3], and Shieh & Lin [4]; and adaptability (day 1–5 of
use) determined the visual performance of Chinese users in using leading displays to accomplish
dual tasks on small screens.
The dual tasks, which consisted of a static Chinese-character search task and a leading-display
information reading task, were conducted on a Sony Ericsson P910i Smartphone (Fig. 1), with all
text material displayed on a 208 × 320 resolution touch-screen. The smart phone was placed on a
75 cm high table with a desk synchronization stand. The smart phone was positioned at an incline
of approximately 105°. The distance from the center of the screen to the desktop was 8 cm, while
the distance from the participants’ eyes to the center of the screen was 40 cm. An environment 
involving both leading and static displays was constructed. Text was presented in black on a light
gray background. The leading display could be maximized to display ten Chinese characters of
14-point Chinese typography on a single-line display. Fig. 2 shows the interface design in which
the leading and static displays are presented simultaneously on a smart phone.
Figure 2. Photo of the experimental interface showed on an real-world P910i device
Twelve college students (native Chinese speakers) from Taiwan were selected as participants.
in isolation and is designed to accompany static information. The effect of leading display design
on visual performance for static information thus is also an important issue.
According to the analytical results presented here, none of the leading display design factors
distracted participants from the static search task, but they did influence comprehension. The
impact of leading display factors on the static search task was relatively low. This finding
suggests that users can receive more information using a well designed leading display on
small-screen devices without sacrificing visual performance efficiency on a static-information
search task.
For the leading display, users had the highest reading comprehension using the word-by-word
presentation mode at a speed of about 250 cpm. This finding is in accordance with previous
Chinese leading-display studies [1-4, 6, 7]. Chinese script belongs to the logographic system in
which characters are used as writing units, and no salient boundary exists between characters.
The character-by-character presentation mode on the leading display required that subjects
partially use cognitive resources to divide the characters into the smallest meaningful units.
However, the word-by-word format allowed the addition of spaces between words, making the
boundaries between the words more salient; this helped users to divide the Chinese characters
into Chinese words, thereby lowering the cognitive load and promoting reading comprehension
of dynamic text [2-4]. In terms of user adaptability to leading displays and speed, previous
studies on leading displays have shown no significant improvement in reading comprehension
with time of use increments, and 250 cpm is far slower than the average Chinese reading speed of
580 cpm [5]. Leading displays present a trade-off between space and time, which is a novel
presentation technique to most users [3, 4]. Thus, users may need more practice to familiarize
themselves with this novel, temporal-domain, and dynamic technique. Further studies are needed
to investigate how users acquaint themselves with and accept this novel presentation technique by
increasing time of use to improve reading efficiency for Chinese text dynamically displayed on a
small screen.
The leading of dynamic information displays has recently been identified as a means of
presenting text on electronic device screens. The results of this study demonstrate user
comprehension of a variety of leading display designs. Suggestions made in this study may assist
interface designers in developing effective leading displays that promote improved user
Comprehension for small-screen mobile devices.
Acknowledgment
The authors gratefully acknowledge the financial support from the National Science Council,
Taiwan, Republic of China under Project NSC 97-2221-E-130-021-.
References
[1] C.H. Chen and Y. H. Chien. Effect of dynamic display and speed of display movement on
reading Chinese text presented on a small screen, Perceptual and Motor Skills, 100:
865–873, 2005.
[2] Y.H. Chien and C.H. Chen. The use of dynamic display to improve reading comprehension
for the small screen of a wrist watch. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 4557: 814–823,
2007.
[3] Y.C. Lin and K.K. Shieh. Reading a dynamic presentation of Chinese text on a single-line
display. Displays, 27 (4–5): 145–152, 2006.
[4] K.K. Shieh and Y.C. Lin. Dynamic Chinese text on a single-line display: Effects of
presentation mode. Perceptual and Motor Skills, 100: 1021–1035, 2005.
[5] F. Sun, M. Morita, and L.W. Stark. Comparative patterns of reading eye movement in
Chinese and English. Perception and Psychophysics, 37 (6): 502–506, 1985.
[6] A.H. Wang, J.J. Fang, and C.H. Chen. Effects of VDT leading-display design on visual
performance of users in handling static and dynamic display information dual-tasks.
International Journal of Industrial Ergonomics, 32 (2): 93–104, 2003.
[7] A.H. Wang and C.H. Chen. Effects of screen type, Chinese typography, text/background color
combination, speed, and jump length for VDT leading display on users’ reading 
performance. International Journal of Industrial Ergonomics, 31 (4): 249–261, 2003.
