 2 
planar bottom-contact (pBC) structure, which has 
the S/D metal electrodes embedded in the gate 
dielectric; meanwhile, the bi-layer gate dielectric is 
also used for the etching selectivity to control the 
planarization process well, as described in 
experimental section. The pBC structure can provide 
a continuous plane without the step height caused by 
the thickness of S/D metal electrodes to enhance the 
grain growth continuity of the deposited pentacene 
active layer near the edge of S/D metal electrodes, 
and result in the decreased RC to improve the 
performances of the OTFTs. And we also investigate 
the effect of the different planarization processes, 
which are wet and dry etching processes, on the 
electrical performances of OTFT. It is found that the 
different etching processes will cause the different 
surface roughness of the S/D metal electrodes to 
affect the RC, and thus influence the electrical 
characteristic of OTFTs further [10]. 
 
 
Fig. 1 Cross section diagrams of (a) the conventional 
bottom-contact (cBC) structure and (b) the planar 
bottom-contact (pBC) structure. 
 
III. Experimental details 
The pentacene-based OTFTs were fabricated on a 
heavily doped n-type silicon substrate as the gate 
electrode. The bi-layer gate dielectric was 
successively deposited with 50 nm Si3N4 and 50 nm 
TEOS-SiO2 by Low Pressure Chemical Vapor 
Deposition (LPCVD) for the OTFTs with the cBC 
and pBC structures. The S/D metal electrodes region 
was defined by photo-lithography technique. For the 
pBC structure, the 50 nm TEOS-SiO2 was etched by 
the Buffered Hydrogen Fluoride (BHF) solution or 
Reactive Ion Etching (RIE) before the S/D metal 
deposition. The metals Cr/Au (2 nm/48 nm) were 
evaporated onto the gate dielectrics of cBC and pBC 
samples by a thermal evaporator, which were 
patterned using the lift-off method to form the S/D 
electrodes. The pentacene powder was purchased 
from Sigma Aldrich and used without further 
purification as the active layer film. The pentacene 
film with a thickness of 50 nm was deposited by 
thermal evaporation at room temperature. The 
cross-section diagrams of the OTFTs with cBC and 
pBC structures are shown in figs. 1(a) and 1(b), 
respectively. The electrical characteristics of the 
fabricated OTFTs were obtained with an Agilent HP 
4145B semiconductor parameter analyzer. The 
morphology of pentacene active layer and the 
surface roughness of the S/D metal electrodes on the 
gate dielectric that had been etched by BHF or RIE, 
were examined by atomic force microscopy (AFM). 
 
 
Fig. 2 The AFM images of pentacene film of OTFT devices 
(a) with conventional bottom-contact (cBC) structure, (b) 
with pBC structure using BHF etching and (c) with pBC 
structure using RIE etching. 
(a) 
(b) 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
 4 
pentacene active layer [13]. And the transfer curves 
of OTFTs with cBC and pBC structures are also 
shown in fig. 3(d). It obviously shows that 
performance of OTFTs with pBC structure is better 
than that with cBC, and the extracted field-effect 
mobilities of the cBC structure, pBC structure using 
BHF etching and pBC structure using RIE etching 
are 0.003, 0.06 and 0.02 cm
2/V∙s, respectively. The 
improvement of mobility of pBC structure could be 
also attributed to the decreased RC between the 
organic semiconductor and S/D metal electrodes [10, 
12, 14-17]. Fig. 4 is the RC of cBC and pBC OTFTs, 
which are extracted by transmission line model 
(TLM) [18]. The RC for VGS = -10 V are 17.338, 
0.444 and 3.729 MΩ for the cBC structure, pBC 
structure using BHF etching and pBC structure using 
RIE etching, respectively. It is found that the pBC 
structure can provide a plane without the step height 
caused by the thickness of S/D metal electrodes, to 
make the pentacene active layer get the better growth 
continuity near the edge of S/D metal electrodes, and 
it could result in the better carrier injection than that 
of OTFTs with cBC structure and cause the lower 
RC, resulting in the improved electrical performance. 
 
 
Figure 4. The contact resistance (Rc) of cBC and pBC 
OTFTs extracted by TLM. 
 
In addition, we also found that the electrical 
performance of the OTFTs with pBC structure 
would be influenced by the different planarization 
processes, which are the wet etching (BHF solution) 
and dry etching (RIE) processes, as shown in fig. 3 
and fig. 4. Because the RIE etching is involved with 
the ion bombardment of plasma [19], the surface 
roughness of the gate dielectric etched by RIE 
(dry-etching) is often larger than that of the gate 
dielectric etched by the BHF solution (wet-etching). 
Figs. 5(a) and 5(b) can be obviously observed that 
the OTFT using the RIE etching has the rougher 
surface on S/D metal electrodes as a result of RIE 
etching damage. We think that the rougher surface 
on S/D metal electrodes would influence the growth 
quality of the pentacece film and result in the higher 
contact resistance [10]. Because the higher RC (the 
Rc are 3.729 and 0.444 MΩ for the pBC structure 
using RIE etching and using BHF etching, 
respectively) will degrade the electrical 
characteristic, the OTFTs using RIE etching has the 
inferior electrical characteristics than the OTFT 
using the BHF etching (the extracted field-effect 
mobilities of the pBC structure RIE etching and 
using BHF etching are 0.02 and 0.06 cm
2/V∙s, 
respectively). 
 
 
 
Figure 5. The AFM images of S/D electrodes with pBC 
structure etched by (a) BHF and (b) RIE. 
 
V. Conclusions 
We propose a planar bottom-contact (pBC) 
structure for OTFT to improve the performance of 
the OTFT with the conventional bottom-contact 
(cBC) structure. The pBC structure can decrease the 
contact resistance between the organic 
semiconductor and source/drain metal electrodes, so 
the extracted field-effect mobility is increased from 
0.003 cm
2/V∙s (cBC structure) to 0.06 cm2/V∙s (pBC 
structure). Comparing the different planarization 
processes for pBC structure, that is, BHF etching 
and RIE etching, the rougher surface on S/D metal 
electrodes as a result of the RIE damage on the gate 
dielectric will increase the contact resistance, and 
(a) 
(b) 
 6 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用
價值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是
否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評
估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 ■申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 ■洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
本計畫提出一個新式有機薄膜電晶體結構-『平面式結構有機薄膜電晶體』來改善傳統下
接觸式元件結構在源/汲極與有機半導體層介面之間所遇到的有機半導體層成長品質不佳而
產生較大之接觸電阻問題。經研究結果顯示，由於所提出之平面式元件結構在源/汲極與閘極
介電層是製作成切齊於同一個平面，讓有機半導體層可沉積在此沒有高低起伏的平面上，故
在源/汲極與有機半導體層介面之間的接觸電阻會大幅下降，進而改善載子注入效率與提升輸
出電流。因此，本計畫所提出之高效能平面式結構有機薄膜電晶體是非常適合取代傳統下接
觸式元件結構在主動式驅動發光二極體(AMOLED)顯示面板的應用，並可達到省電、節能之
效益。而目前本計劃研究成果已投稿至國際期刊 Solid-State Electronics，此外亦投稿至2011 
INEC國際性會議一篇。 
 
 2 
他國家參加國際性之研討會，可能會議於日本東京舉行，故多為亞洲人參與此會議，
此次會議多數為日本之研究團隊，發表其相關之成果，次之為亞洲其他各國之研究
成果，其中，High-K與Metal gate之專題演講對本團隊之研究有非常大的助益，因本
研究團隊亦於近年來投入High-K與Metal gate搭配LTPS TFT之研究，其中HfO2之
High-K薄膜更是本研究團隊關注之材料，亦可發現其於本會中亦是熱門之研究材
料，此外，鑭系之材料也非常的熱門的，讓本人了解相關研究上之趨勢，並吸取其
研究之相關經驗，並於研討會期間相關專業領域上有相當大的收穫並亦於個人之研
究上激發出新的想法。而於本會中邀請之專題演講皆非常精彩，其中SiC之主題演講
亦吸引本人之關注，其能隙較大可有效之減少漏電流，故亦思考是否可應用於本研
究團隊之應用上，故收獲很大。 
於poster Session時，亦有多位教授對本研究團隊之研究主題感到興趣並對提出
各項問題與提出本研究上可能需改進之地方，本人亦分享本研究團隊之成果與教授
學生們互相探討相關之經驗，使本人收獲良多，亦了解本人研究上之相關缺失，已
使本人於接下來之相關研究可有效之改善並增加研究上之完整性。 
再者，於會議中亦巧遇同於國家奈米實驗室進行研究之研究生，與其討論個人
研究上之心得與經驗，亦從中了解個人於研究上之盲點，使本人於研究上有極大之
幫助。此外，亦要感謝國科會於經費上之補助。 
 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無此項活動者略)： 
 
無 
 
 
四、建議： 
參加此類國際知名大型研討會，不僅可以了解世界上相同領域的研究方向以及研
究深度之外，並且能提升本團隊之研究水準並拓展團隊之國際視野，故希望國科會
能每年補助本實驗室研究人員出席國外研討會之相關費用。 
 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. 大 會 手 冊 (Extended Abstracts of 2011 International Workshop on 
DIELECTRIC THIN FILMS FOR FUTRUE ELECTRON DEVICES: 
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY)：內容為此研討會2天之議程安排與相關研
究主題之內容摘要。 
2. 大會光碟 
 
 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/09/19
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 高效能小尺寸平面式結構之可撓式有機薄膜電晶體元件之製作與研究(I)
計畫主持人: 范慶麟
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-011-137- 學門領域: 固態電子 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 平面式結構有機薄膜電晶體的製作
(英文)
成果歸屬機構
國立臺灣科技大學 發明人
(創作人)
范慶麟,林禹佐,陳綏之
技術說明
(中文) 在本專利中，我們提出一個新式有機薄膜電晶體結構-『平面式結構有機薄膜電
晶體』來改善傳統下接觸式元件結構在源/汲極與有機半導體層介面之間所遇到
的有機半導體層成長品質不佳而產生較大之接觸電阻問題。由於所提出之平面式
元件結構在源/汲極與閘極介電層是製作成切齊於同一個平面，讓有機半導體層
可沉積在此沒有高低起伏的平面上，因此在源/汲極與有機半導體層介面之間的
接觸電阻會大幅下降，進而改善載子注入效率與提升輸出電流。
(英文) This patent reports the performance improvement of pentacene-based organic thin-film 
transistor (OTFT) with the proposed planar bottom-contact structure (pBC). The 
proposed pBC structure can provide a continuous plane without the step height caused by 
the thickness of source/drain (S/D) metal electrodes to enhance the grain continuity of the 
deposited pentacene channel layer near the edge of S/D metal electrodes, thus resulting in 
the decreased contact resistance and improved device performances.
產業別 其他工業製品製造業
技術/產品應用範圍 有機薄膜電晶體、主動式驅動發光二極體顯示器
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
由於本技術僅需對元件結構作些微的變化即能明顯的提升元件電氣特性，且並不涉及複
雜的製程，所以是非常適合取代傳統下接觸式元件結構在主動式驅動發光二極體
(AMOLED)顯示面板的應用，並可達到省電、節能之效益。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
