 68
implies that the signal reaches the receiver through 
various paths of different length causing multipath 
dispersion.  To account for the influence of reflections 
on the detected OW signal, the ceiling and the walls 
above the communication plane have been divided into 
equal square-shaped reflection elements in a similar 
fashion as shown in Fig. 2. Because of high obstruction 
from furniture, only contributions from reflection 
elements above the communication plane have been 
taken into account.  The squares measure 20×20 cm2 
and light rays are considered to hit the reflection 
elements in their center while ceiling and walls are 100% 
reflective. Up to second order reflections have been 
taken into account. Reflections from the ceiling and 
walls can be considered as small, Lambertian optical 
power sources with n = 1 [1]. Hence, to find the power 
levels associated with light rays that come from 
transmitter as well as a reflection element. The received 
optical power[5] 
( ) φθπ coscos2
1
2 A
n
r
PP nOERC
+=          (1) 
Since the coefficient n for both transmitter and 
reflection elements equals 1, this formula becomes, 
φθπ coscos 2r
AP
P pdOERC =
           (2) 
Apd is the area of the photodetector and was taken 
to be 5 mm2. POE is either the power emitted by the 
transmitter or a reflection element. The distance r as well 
as the angles θ and φ are found from carthesian 
co-ordinates, in a similar way as was done to calculate 
the ambient noise level. Fig. 3 shows a transmission path 
from transmitter to the receiver via a first as well as a 
second order reflection.  
The receiver is considered to be a photodiode with 
hemispherical concentrator.  Its normal is perpendicular 
to the communication plane and points towards the 
ceiling.  Because of the hemispherical concentrator, any 
light ray that hits the receiver is considered to hit it 
perpendicular, i.e. φ = 0 . For light rays that hit the 
receiver, equation (2) is therefore always replaced by a 
formula in which φ= 0 and the equation becomes 
θπ cos2r
AP
P pdOERC =
    (3) 
To calculate the time it takes a light ray to travel, 
its path length is divided by the velocity of light （3×108 
ms-1）. 
The various transmission paths have been grouped 
according to the time it takes the emitted light to travel a 
specific path from transmitter to receiver. The associated 
power levels within each group have been summed and 
the time associated with each specific group, considered 
to be the time in the middle of its interval. The above 
described method calculates the multipath dispersion 
effects due to an impulse with a magnitude that equals 
the maximum optical power of the transmitter. The 
response to a block shaped pulse of duration 10 ns was 
found by convolving the results for an impulse with the 
block pulse.  
Fig. 4 displays the result at various locations on the 
communication plane as well as their best Gaussian fit. 
The Gaussian estimation has subsequently been used to 
calculate the impact of the multipath dispersion on the 
sensitivity performance of the receive. 
 
Equalization Technique 
The received signal as show in Fig. 4. From the 
results obtained in, it can be seen that multipath 
dispersion has a profound effect on the received signal. 
In this session, we would like to design a transversal 
filter. Such filters are attractive since they are inherently 
stable, lend themselves to adaptive configurations and 
can easily be implemented. A transversal filter is shown 
in Figure 5, which consists of a delay line tapped at T 
second intervals. Each tap is connected through a 
variable gain device with tap coefficient ri to a summing 
device. Intersymbol interference is reduced by filtering 
 70
「5」 H.H. Chan, J.C. Kao, J.M.H. Elmirghani, and 
R.A.Cryan, “Sensitivity Performance of indoor 
optical wireless OOK and PPM systems,” 
Journal of optical communications, vol.23, pp 
132-137 2002. 
 
Figure 1 Configurations of non-directed indoor links  
(a) LOS (b) Diffuse 
Fig 2 Areas used to investigate the fraction of ambient 
light on the walls 
 
Fig 3 Modelling the received power level 
 
Figure 4 Channel impulse response and received pulse 
shape 
 
