2 
 
上的困難處。 
3. FORNAX 
FORNAX 為新加坡在 EDM 的基礎上自行開發的平台，FORNAX 是一個 C++物件庫，攜帶規則對
物件本身進行評估，提供良好的物件導向模組。通過使用 FORNAX 物件，用戶不需要另外開發演算法
來從 IFC 數據取得所需的信息，只需通過 FORNAX 物件和它們的成員函數，以一般語言撰寫的規則可
以轉釋為編程語言作應用，此外，FORNAX 物件定義為捕捉特定規則語義，因此根據物件功能的不同
以不同類型的規則對它的屬性作檢核。然而，由於 FORNAX 高度針對新加坡建築規則，因此為該平台
所建立之規則將無法轉移至其它平台。 
2-2建築設計審查平台 
1. CORENET(Singapore) 
CORENET 全名為 COnstruction and Real Estate NETwork，中譯為建築與房地產網路，主要以資訊
科技為主，是新加坡國家發展部所發展的一個計畫，其目標是發展一個整合建築生命週期的四個基本
過程─設計（Design）、採購（Procure）、施工（Build）、維護（Maintain）的資訊科技系統，而在設計
這階段裡已經發展了已成熟運作的三個系統，分別為 CORENET e-Submission、CORENET 
e-PlanCheck、CORENET e-Info。CORENET e-Submission 是一個以網路為基礎的上傳繳交系統，可透
過這系統上傳計畫方案的圖檔(例如設計圖、工程圖、建築圖等等)與文件給工程審核機構，做各方面的
審核，包括計劃審核、建築審核、結構審核、管線空調與防火安全規範等等。CORENET e-PlanCheck
系統之目的為提供一系列的資訊科技應用程式，自動地檢核透過上述 e-Submission 所上傳的建築相關
電子圖檔，是否有符合規範的要求。而 CORENET e-Info 則提供一個中央的儲藏庫，儲藏建築物或結
構等相關的資料，過去曾上傳過的資料，可以在任何時間、任何地點透過網際網路來存取。此儲藏庫
也儲存新加坡建築規範與新加坡各房屋與建築管理單位的公告，會自動地寄送關於房屋與建築業的新
聞消息給它的訂閱者。新加坡致力建立代碼檢查是目前最早開始也是實行最久的，CORENET 於 2008
年發表的報告指出，其已完成 92%建築計畫規範與 77%建築服務設施規範之檢核，未來將持續發展如
建築耗能分析與結構模組等規範。為世界各國在自動化建管審查系統發展上，最完整且最具代表性的
成功案例。 
2. HITOS(Norwegian) 
HITOS 專案計畫由挪威政府機構 Statsbygg 與 Tromsø 大學共同進行，該計畫嘗試整合各種軟體以
提高建築及房地產業的效率。該專案使用了 ArchiCAD 軟體作建築設計、Autodesk Desktop 軟體作結構
分析、Data Desigh System 軟體作機電設計、Octaga 軟體作為建模與可視化的工具、以 NOIS G-PROG
進行成本估算、能源模擬使用了 Granlund Riuska 軟體、再利用 Powel Gemini 3D Terrain 作地形建模、
針對房間與設備管理的 dRofus 軟體和前述的 SMC 軟體，最後再以 EDM Model Server 整合和管理，該
專案尤其以評估空間方案需求和建築無障礙空間檢查功能最為顯著。dRofus 軟體是一個數據庫管理系
統，可用於管理從早期的規劃到整個建築專案的技術、功能和設備需求。該軟體以分層樹狀結構介面
管理空間數據，並可對計畫數據與 IFC/BIM 模型進行比較，並可以常用的文件格式產出六十多種不同
的報表，但該軟體並不處理圖形及可視化功能。 
3. Design check(Australia) 
由澳洲政府支持建築創新研究中心所進行的研究計畫，該計畫分為兩個階段，第一階段起始於 2001
年，目標為可行性評估，重點在於分析目前的規則檢查系統及找出最好的辦法來電腦化澳洲規範。其
針對 SMC 與 EDM 系統作比較，最後因 EDM 系統具有較高的靈活性及開放的開發環境而選擇採用，
進而於 2004 年開始第二階段的審查系統 Design check 的開發。首先將規範條文以圖文格式呈現，再以
物件導向技術由人工轉譯為程式語言，以物件與關係來表達。該專案利用 EDM 功能生成文本的檢查結
果報告，並將這些報告以 XML 和 HTML 格式呈現，但目前該檢查系統尚未與 3D 視覺整合，僅能以
文字或符號提供警示功能，以 3D 圖形展示檢查結果為其未來發展目標。 
4. SMARTcodes(International Code Council) 
由 International Code Council(ICC)所開發的 SMARTcodes 網路平台，主要應用於北美司法管轄區的
建築法規。該平台使用字典資料庫定義術語的物件和屬性，辨識用戶所輸入的書面陳述規則，識別關
鍵的短語和他們的邏輯作用，將其轉譯為 SMARTcodes，對 IFC/BIM model 進行檢查，並將檢查結果
4 
 
要的資訊需求，並可直接擷取自模型以進行檢查。  
 Semi-Direct：現有之 IFC 檔案格式未攜帶進行規範檢查所需之資訊內容，需在現有格式基礎下進
行擴充，才可使繪圖軟體所匯出送審之 IFC/BIM 模型中攜帶有充分的資訊內容進行檢查。 
 Indirect：現有之 IFC 檔案格式未攜帶進行規範檢查所需之資訊內容，並且難以於現有格式基礎下
進行擴充，由繪圖軟體所匯出之 IFC/BIM 模型中未攜帶有進行規範檢查所需之資訊，需以電腦輔
助進行人工審查。 
 Invalid：規範內容與 IFC/BIM 模型無直接關係。 
3-2建築設計法規資料屬性架構 
本研究在 IFC（Industry Foundation Classes）標準資料格式的架構下，進一步透過系統化的解析程
序，分析專案於規劃設計階段與設計審查階段之資訊處理流程及資訊需求，結合分析自建築法規取得
之參數資料，延伸現有 IFC 標準資料格式，亦即在現有 IFC 標準圖形元件中，擴充建物圖形元件在建
築設計審查所需之資訊內容與知識，再依建築元件庫之概念，藉由階層面向（Containment Hierarchy）
中「尺度階層架構」（Hegazy et al, 2001）將設計審查資訊轉換成為 BIM model 中的構件屬性資訊，以
作為後續發展自動建管審查模式之可靠基礎（圖 1）。 
在現有 IFC/BIM 的架構下，本研究完成建築技術規則中一般設計通則之解析，解析評估結果整理
如表 1 所示。由評估結果可以看出，目前大部分條文仍是 Indirect，由繪圖軟體所匯出之 IFC/BIM 模型
中未攜帶有進行規範檢查所需之資訊，需以電腦輔助進行人工審查。評估結果為 Direct 之條文多為 Ifc
層級位於 IfcElement，顯示在元件層級檢查的條文較易實現建築規則檢查自動化。 
 
圖 1、建築技術規則於 BIM 專案中尺度階層架構 
6 
 
圖 2、BIM 為基礎建築設計審查輔助系統審查流程 
 
四、 案例驗證 
本研究模擬之案例為一 RC 構造之私人自用四層樓透天住宅。首先藉由訪談，了解建築師發展設
計之概念與依據，並取得其建築圖說與送審資料等文件。透過系統化的解析程序，分析相關條文之關
鍵參數與繪圖需求，再依據所分析條文所得之參數，於尺度階層所對應之 IFC 資訊架構下進行擴充。
本研究採用 Autodesk Revit Architecture2010 建構案例 BIM 模型，案例模型如圖 3 所示，在設計端完成
BIM 模型的繪製之後，將其以 IFC2x3 格式匯出為 .ifc 檔案，便可將此檔案透過網路傳送至檢查端，
以此 IFC/BIM 模型進行後續檢查作業。 
 
4-1適用規則檢查 
此階段檢查之目的在於判斷專案類型，以篩選出適用該專案之條文，確保檢查結果正確，因此本
項檢查需擷取 IFC 檔案中所攜帶之專案資訊。 
8 
 
過檢查，因此需產生檢查報告以供設計者改正。 
 
 
表 2、第 33 條規範檢查結果 
樓梯 
位置 
樓梯寬度 
(≧75cm) 
樓梯級高 
(≦20cm) 
樓梯級深 
(≧21cm) 
檢查 
結果 
1F→2F 100cm 20 23 PASS 
2F→3F 100cm 20 23 PASS 
3F→4F 100cm 20 20 Reject 
 
Semi-Direct 類型規則 
本類型規則為現有之 IFC 檔案格式未攜帶進行規範檢查所需之資訊內容，需在現有格式基礎下進
行擴充，才可使繪圖軟體所匯出送審之 IFC/BIM 模型中攜帶有充分的資訊內容進行檢查。 
由於本研究之案例建築為位於都市計畫區域內的住宅區，因此以建築技術規則第 23 條住宅區高度
限制為例，說明此類型規則之檢查流程。建築技術規則第 23 條規則中所提及之關鍵參數有建築物高
度、面前道路寬度、臨接長度、永久性空地之深度、寬度、面積以及建築物臨近基地之有效日照等。
其中，在基地臨接或永久性空地部分，現有繪圖軟體並無法適切描述，因此需在現有之 IFC 格式中擴
充地號、深度、寬度等屬性，再由相鄰基地之地號去查詢土地使用類別，判斷是否為永久性空地。此
外，在日照分析的部分，可於設計端透過如 Ecotect 等建築環境分析軟體來進行模擬，再將分析結果納
入該建築基地之屬性中。而在建築物高度的相關檢查部分，現行建築技術規則定義建築物高度為自基
地地面計量至建築物最高部分之垂直高度，但屋突可不計入建築物高度，故計算至屋頂層樓板 RFL 之
高程即可。在現有 IFC2x3 格式的架構下，建築物屋頂層樓板 RFL 之高程被存放在 IfcBuildingStorey 下
之 Evaluation 屬性，本案例之 Evaluation 值為 13.7m，並未超過規範之 21m 及七層樓之限制，故就此條
規則而言本案例符合規定。 
Indirect 類型規則 
在 Indirect 類型規則的檢查部分，由於現有 IFC 檔案格式中並未具備檢核所需相關屬性資訊，故建
議可透過電腦輔助進行人工審查。 
 
五、 結論與建議 
本研究旨在建立適用於國內營建產業之 BIM 建築設計審查模式，結合了物件導向技術、建築元件
資料庫與解析 IFC 標準結構等理論及技術，分析臺灣現行建築設計規範，建立可描述多面向建築設計
內容與相關法規資訊之建物元件標準屬性架構，提出以 IFC/BIM 模型為基礎之建築設計審查模式。經
由本研究之模式建構與案例應用過程，依序將研究結論分述如下： 
1. 針對建管法令繁多複雜，缺乏妥善整合之問題，本研究對現行規範條文進行解析，釐清條文內容
並判別其所屬性質分門別類，再透過不同階段之檢查流程來篩選出專案所適用之條文內容，避免
規範重複或衝突之情況發生，加速審查時間與效率，並且確保專案受到應有適用條文之檢核，提
升審查正確性。 
2. 本研究應用物件導向技術，將分析所得之建築檢核屬性資訊賦予各圖形元件，亦即在現有 IFC 標
準圖形元件中，擴充建物元件在規劃設計與設計檢核所需之資訊內容與知識。改善以往 BIM 模型
建構耗時且缺乏彈性的缺失，於此開放式的架構下，擴充 BIM object 的屬性架構並建立新的物件
型式。 
3. 為改善目前建築設計審查費時費力的情況，本研究提出應用 BIM 於建築設計審查模式，建立了後
續開發 BIM 建築設計審查系統之雛形，將 BIM 之使用推展至建築設計審查的領域，提升建築專案
資訊傳遞之一致性，更確保了後續施工管控與維護作業資訊來源之正確性，為專案資訊管理與整
合模式，建立良好之基礎。 
4. 由於近年來科技日新月異，建築技術與材料不斷推陳出新，現行的建築技術規則更新的速度已趕
 1
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                    日期：100 年 7 月 11 日 
一、參加會議經過 
印尼大學(University of Indonesia)每兩年所舉辦之國際品質研究研討會(QiR)為相關
領域研究與教育工作者之重要學術盛會，本(12)屆 QiR2011 於 2011 年 7 月 3~7 日於巴里
島舉行，本次會議主題為“Integrated Design in Urban Eco-Technology for Quality of Life 
and Humanity”。 
會議主題包含：材料工程、機械工程、建築工程、土木工程、環境工程等，本會議
為相關工程應用領域相互交流溝通的重要平台。 
會議首日(7/4）為報到及歡迎茶會。第二日（7/5）上午為會議開幕式，並安排由伊利
諾大學 Prof. Joe Greene 發表"Design Strategies for the Growth of Self-organized 3D Thin 
Film Ceramic Nanostructures for Energy-related Applications"專題演講；荷蘭(TU Delft) Prof. 
Syed Islam 發表"Paradigm Shift in Modern Distribution System Design Enabling Distributed 
Generation"專題演講；日本早稻田大學 Prof. Hiroshi Katayama 發表"Lean Management and 
Its Global Transfer for Sustainability: A Japanese Approach"專題演講；印尼大學 Prof. 
Akhmad Herman Yuwono 發表 "Sol− Gel derived TiO2–PMMA Nanocomposites of 
Enhanced Nanocrystallinity"專題演講；以及韓國 Yeungnam 大學 Prof. Tae Jo Ko 發表
"Hybrid Machining System Comprising of EDM and Endmilling"，下午則為各場次之論文發
表及海報展示等。本計畫主持人於會議中發表論文"Using BIM Model and Genetic 
計畫編號 NSC 99－2221－E－426－006－ 
計畫名稱 我國營建業 BIM 發展策略之研究－子計畫四：以 BIM 模型為基礎建構
自動化建築設計審查模式之研究 
出國人員
姓名 陳怡兆 
服務機構
及職稱 
康寧大學資產管理與城市規劃學
系助理教授 
會議時間 100年 7月 3日至 100 年 7 月 7 日 會議地點 印尼巴里島 
會議名稱 
(中文)第 12 屆國際品質研究研討會 
(英文) 12th International Conference on Quality in Research (QiR 2011) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)應用 BIM 模型與基因演算法建構營建專案最佳化派工模式 
(英文) Using BIM Model and Genetic Algorithms to Optimize the Crew 
Assignment for Construction Project Planning 
  
 The  12th    International Conference on  QiR (Quality  in Research) 
                             Conference Organizing Committee:                              P    +62 - 21 - 786 3503/ 021 98954696 
                                                                         Faculty of Engineering                                                   F    +62 - 21 - 7270050  
                                       Universitas Indonesia                                                     E    qir@eng.ui,ac.id,       
                                               Dekanat Building 3th   floor                                      qir.ftui@gmail.com 
                                                               Campus UI, Depok 16424, Indonesia                     W   http://qir.eng.ui..ac.id 
 
Dear Mr. Yi-Jao Chen, 
 
We refer to your submission for the 12th International Conference on Quality in Research (QiR) 2011 details as 
follows: 
 
Author(s) : Yi-Jao Chen, Chung-Wei Feng, Yu-Ren Wang 
Title : Using BIM Model and Genetic Algorithms to Optimize the Crew Assignment for 
Construction Project Planning 
Review result : Accepted as Oral Presentation 
 
We are pleased to inform you that your above-mentioned submission has been reviewed and accepted for the 
conference. For inclusion in the Conference Proceeding we require that you submit the full paper camera ready 
by 28 March 2011. Guidelines for manuscript preparation are available on the Conference website at: 
//qir.eng.ui.ac.id (in the menu “Download”).  
 
To appear on the conference program and proceeding, you will need to register and pay fees to the Conference 
Secretariat : 
 
The conference fee is as follows: 
 
International Participants Early Bird (Before 31 March 2011) 
Normal 
(31 March-30 April 2011) 
Late  
(1 May-31 May 2011) 
Full registration USD 350 USD 450 USD 500 
Student Registration USD 275 USD 350 USD 450 
Publication in AMR Journal USD 110 - - 
Dinner for Accompanying Person* USD 40 USD 40 USD 50 
Tour* USD 40 USD 40 USD 50 
*Optional 
   
Participants are charged based on institution not nationality. Full and Student Registration fee includes the 
attendance at all scientific sessions, lunch and tea breaks, conference proceeding (CD), welcome cocktail and 
dinner. Fee does NOT include charges for tour and publication in AMR journal. An author can submit and 
present maximum 2 papers in the conference 
 
Payment can be made : 
 
§ Bank transfer to (for Dollar Currency): 
Bank BNI  
Account Number : 0006693191 
Account  Name : Link Program FTUI 
 
§ Or through credit card as posted in the website 
 
Using BIM Model and Genetic Algorithms to Optimize the Crew Assignment for 
Construction Project Planning 
 
Yi-Jao Chen a, Chung-Wei Feng b, Yu-Ren Wang c, Hsueh-Ming Wu d 
 
a Assistant Professor, Department of Asset Management and Urban Planning, University of Kang Ning, Taiwan  
E-mail : yjchen@ukn.edu.tw 
 
b Associate Professor, Department of Civil Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan 
E-mail :  cfeng@mail.ncku.edu.tw 
 
c Assistant Professor, Department of Civil Engineering, National Kaohsiung University of Applied Sciences, Taiwan 
E-mail :  yrwang@cc.kuas.edu.tw 
 
d Lecturer, Department of Creative Culture, University of Kang Ning, Taiwan  
E-mail : hmwu11@gmail.com 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Project planning is among the most critical factors to the success of a construction project. In project planning, cost and schedule 
are closely interrelated, because they share a lot of common data in their planning processes. Therefore, the integration of cost and 
schedule functions has been an attractive issue in construction project planning. Many researchers have emphasized the benefits of 
this integration and several different methodologies combining cost and schedule data have been provided. However, the results of 
the previous studies are not comprehensive enough to fulfill the requirements of project planning. This paper presents a model-
based planning system that employs Building information model (BIM), object sequencing matrix (OSM), and genetic algorithms 
(GAs) to obtain an optimal crew assignment under resource and workspace constraints. The purposes are to evaluate the project 
costs and optimize the temporal distribution of resources in project planning. A computer implementation called Cost/Schedule 
Integrated Planning System (CSIPS) is also developed to verify the feasibility of the proposed approach. 
 
Keywords 
 
Building Information Model, Genetic Algorithms, crew assignment; project planning 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Project planning is among the most critical factors to the success of a construction project. In project planning, cost and schedule 
are closely interrelated, because they share a lot of common data in their planning processes. Therefore, the integration of cost and 
schedule functions has been an attractive issue in construction project planning. Many researchers have emphasized the benefits of 
this integration and several different methodologies combining cost and schedule data have been provided [1, 2]. However, the 
overhead efforts of collecting and maintaining detailed data have been highlighted by previous research as the major barrier to 
utilizing this concept in real-world implementation [3]. Advance information technology has been recognized as a definite solution 
in the integration of project cost and schedule [4]. Besides utilizing information technology, optimizing planning methods can be 
another solution that can result in reducing the amount of required efforts. 
This paper presents a model-based planning system that employs building information model (BIM) [5], object sequencing matrix 
(OSM), and genetic algorithms (GAs) to generate a cost-schedule integrated plan for construction management. The proposed BIM 
model incorporates multi-aspects of construction information required for project planning and management. In order to present the 
information of construction activities and specifications in the model, this research starts with analyzing the discrete processes 
within the building construction. The essential characteristics of building components are then defined in the property sets of the 
BIM CAD objects [6]. These graphic objects are then further developed as schedulable objects and utilized to create the BIM 
model.  
To schedule the construction project, BIM model and the object sequencing matrix (OSM) are adopted to determine the 
construction sequence of building components based on the physical relationships between BIM CAD objects. Since a building 
The BIM objects are utilized to create a BIM model in an IFC-based CAD system. After the creation of the BIM model, all project-
required work can be identified based on the collected work items in the BIM objects. The large amount of information described 
in the BIM objects will be exported as a relational database for project planning. The use of standard classifications enhances the 
integration of construction information and also improves the viability of integrated cost and schedule planning systems by 
reducing the overhead efforts and by reusing historical databases. 
 
3. GA-based scheduling 
3.1 Object sequencing matrix 
In the proposed scheduling method, the physical relationship between building components, which is defined by the geometric 
attributes retrieved from the BIM objects, is utilized to formulate the construction sequence of the components and is presented in 
the object sequencing matrix (OSM). As shown in Fig. 2b, the circled “S-D” indicates that object C1 (column) is “supported 
directly by” object B1 (beam), the circled “S-I” indicates that object W1 (wall) is “supported indirectly by” object B3 (beam), and 
the circled “D” indicates that object W3 (wall) “depends on” object C1 (column).  
The sequence of objects in OSM is the construction order of building components. As shown in Fig. 2b, the circled “S-I” in the 
upper-right zone indicates that object C1 is supported indirectly by object B4, i.e. object B4 must be installed before object C1. 
Therefore, object B4 should be scheduled before object C1. In other words, the object relationships in the upper-right zone of the 
matrix should be all moved to the lower-left zone, which is the rational sequence of the building components. Based on these 
precedence relationships between building components and regardless of the construction continuity, a number of possible 
construction sequences will be developed. In order to generate a more practical construction sequence for building components, the 
relationships in OSM conformed to the continuity condition will obtain a higher weight value in the sequencing algorithm (Fig. 2c).  
 
Figure 2: Object sequencing matrix (OSM): (a)building components; (b)relationships between building components; 
(c)relationships conformed to continuity condition. 
The chromosome structure 
In this study, a possible sequence of building components is presented in a chromosome string. The chromosome string is encoding 
in real number. As shown in Fig. 3, the genetic codes represent the positions of the building components in the sequence. Building 
components are then listed in OSM matrix according to the genetic codes (Fig. 2b). 
Chromosome Structure 
The daily crew assignments to each activity are presented in a chromosome string. As shown in Fig. 4, in a workspace that allows a 
maximum of 10 crews, the genetic code (1) 8 2 0 means that the assignment of crews to Steel Works, Form Works, and Concrete 
Works on the first day is 8 crews, 2 crews, and none respectively. The initial crew assignment are randomly generated and the 
strings are input into Str(m,n), while m is the size of initial population (1~Pop_Size), and n is the length of the string (n=1~N×4, N: 
days for scheduling). Moreover, the number of assigned crews is limited by the workspace and resource constraints. Confronting 
the constraints on workspace and resource, how to maximize the amount of work completed by the assigned crews is crucial to the 
optimization of project schedule. 
 
Figure 4: The chromosome structure of crew assignment. 
Fitness Value 
Under workspace and resource constraints, crew assignment is optimized to provide the highest capacity utilization. Therefore, the 
fitness value of a crew assignment is defined as the higher the capacity utilization the better the fitness value of a crew assignment 
is. In crew assignment, the capacity and the scheduled amount of work should be calculated in order to evaluate capacity utilization. 
After a genetic string is generated, the capacity that could be provided by the assigned crews may be calculated according to Eq. 
(3). 
   
   
   
1
0
1
0
1
0
_ _ ,4 2
_ _ ,4 3
_ _ ,4 4
N
k
N
k
N
k
Capacity steel m pro steel Str m k
Capacity form m pro form Str m k
Capacity concrete m pro concrete Str m k






         



  (3)  
where N is the working days, pro is the given production rate. 
Given the capacity, the scheduled amount of work of each work item can be calculated based on the installable building 
components that are sequenced in OSM. In order to prevent the scheduled amount of work less than the required amount of each 
work item, a penalty function is given as Eq. (4). Hence, the fitness function is given as Eq. (5).  
   
 
1
_ _
_ 0
 , 
num
x
If Scheduled m OSM x
Then Scheduled m



                      (4) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_ _ _
.
_ _ _
Scheduled steel m Scheduled form m Scheduled concrete m
Max Fitness Value
Capacity steel m Capacity form m Capacity concrete m
                      
      (5) 
Evolutionary Mechanism 
The evolutionary mechanism follows the procedures of selection, crossover, mutation, etc. as mentioned above. After GAs’ 
evolution and convergence procedures, the optimal crew assignment is generated.  
scheduling method, this study employs an object based scheduling method to formulate a cost-schedule integrated project plan. 
Furthermore, the work items employed in this research are classified and encoded according to a hierarchical standard code. Based 
on the standard code of a work item, the information of the corresponding specification and resource items can be obtained. 
Therefore, CSIPS is also capable of accurately calculating the quantity of labor, equipment and material for the purpose of resource 
management and control.  
 
Figure 6: The “Project Scheduling” section in CSIPS 
 
Figure 7: The “Construction Plan” section in CSIPS 
Monitoring & Evaluation: Effective planning requires continuous monitoring so that the manager can make initial plans and then 
revise them to maintain the proper course toward the objective. The system is capable of generating daily field records for tracking 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/13
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫四：以BIM模型為基礎建構自動化建築設計審查模式之研究
計畫主持人: 陳怡兆
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-426-006- 學門領域: 營建管理
無研發成果推廣資料
博士後研究員 0 0 0%  
專任助理 0 0 0%  
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本研究建立適用於國內營建產業之 BIM 建築設計審查模式，結合了物件導向技
術、建築元件資料庫與解析 IFC 標準結構等理論及技術，分析臺灣現行建築設
計規範，建立可描述多面向建築設計內容與相關法規資訊之建物元件標準屬性
架構，提出以 IFC/BIM 模型為基礎之建築設計審查模式。針對建管法令繁多複
雜，缺乏妥善整合之問題，本研究對現行規範條文進行解析，釐清條文內容並
判別其所屬性質分門別類，再透過不同階段之檢查流程來篩選出專案所適用之
條文內容，避免規範重複或衝突之情況發生，加速審查時間與效率，並且確保
專案受到應有適用條文之檢核，提升審查正確性。為改善目前建築設計審查費
時費力的情況，本研究提出應用 BIM 於建築設計審查模式，建立了後續開發 BIM
建築設計審查系統之雛形，將 BIM 之使用推展至建築設計審查的領域，提升建
築專案資訊傳遞之一致性，更確保了後續施工管控與維護作業資訊來源之正確
性，為專案資訊管理與整合模式，建立良好之基礎。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
