 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
以新組合製程研發高功能鎂基/奈米粉末複合材料及其性能分析 
(總計畫) (3/3) 
計畫編號：NSC 94－2216－E－110－001 
執行期限：94年 08月 01日至 95年 07月 31日 
主持人：黃志青  國立中山大學材料科學研究所 
計畫參與人員：洪英博、林政信、洪子翔、張志溢、裴浩然  
義守大學 鄭憲清   成功大學 曹紀元  中山大學 張志溥 
 
Abstract   
 
  The success in fabrication of various nano-sized powders, wires or tubes has arisen the new possibility in 
modifying existing commercial materials in terms of their functional or structural characteristics. Except for few reports, 
the majority of achievements were focused on the polymer matrix modified by ceramic nano particles so as to 
significantly improve its mechanical or physical properties. The addition of nano powders in metallic alloys has been 
relatively much less addressed. Dispersion of the nano reinforcements in a uniform manner is a critical and difficult task. 
Due to the high surface area ratio, nano powders tend to cluster together, sometimes forming micro-sized aggregates. 
The spray forming technology provides another route. Particles added via spray forming, followed by extrusion or equal 
channel angular extrusion, can be uniformly distributed in the metal matrix. The interface between particles and metal 
matrix can be highly clean due to the extremely short reaction time via rapid solidification, and the subsequent extrusion 
may render high performance products of 100% full density. Meanwhile, recent developments of bulk amorphous alloys 
have been reported to exhibit even higher strength or toughness with the precipitation of nano-sized intermetallic phases 
upon subjected to thermal annealing. Nevertheless, the homogeneous nano precipitates in the amorphous matrix are 
highly sensitive and thermally unstable to the exposed temperature and duration. It is also difficult to control and 
maintain the nano size and desired volume fraction of the in-situ grown precipitates. The current study applies the 
inclusion of thermally stable ceramic nano powders via various means into the light-weight Mg base alloys. Both the 
nano size and the volume fraction of the powders can be well controlled, and they are stable up to the melting 
temperature of the matrix Mg alloy. The processing routes include the preform preparation, spray forming, extrusion or 
equal channel angular pressing, melt spinning, and mechanical alloying for the Mg-Al-Zn and Mg-Cu-Y base 
magnesium alloys. The resulting modified Mg based materials are first evaluated by microstructural characterizations 
using TEM, SEM, EBSD, and DSC. The mechanical property assessments for the first year cover only the tensile tests 
at room and elevated temperatures to explore the low temperature superplasticity and high strain rate superplasticity, in 
preparation for future applications. In the second year of project, the main project was mainly focused on the integration 
of the four subprojects and shared various instruments for the four groups. Also, a new dynamic mechanical analyzer 
(DMA) was purchased and installed, using up almost all of the budgets of the main project.  
 
Keywors: Nano composites, Mg alloys, Mg base composites, spary forming, mechanical property, microstructure  
  
   
1.  Introduction 
 
The success in fabrication of various nano-sized 
powders, wires or tubes has arisen the new possibility in 
modifying the existing commercial materials in terms of 
their functional or structural characteristics. Inorganic 
nano oxide, nitride, refractory or highly electrically 
conductive metallic powders may be inserted in 
polymers, ceramics, metals, or semiconductors by 
various sorts of simple or sophisticated means. Except 
for few reports, the majority of achievements were 
focused on the polymer matrix modified by ceramic nano 
particles so as to significantly improve its mechanical or 
physical properties. The addition of nano powders in 
metallic alloys has been relatively much less addressed. 
In this joint project consisting of four subprojects (I, II, 
III, and IV), the Mg based alloys are adopted as the 
matrix, and nano-sized SiO2 or ZrO2 particulates are 
introduced into the alloy by means of casting (Subproject 
II), powder metallurgy (II), spray forming (I), extrusion 
(I, II), equal channel angular pressing (II, III), melt 
spinning (IV), and mechanical alloying (IV) techniques 
to fabricate a number of high performance Mg matrix 
composites and alloys. Subsequent examinations and 
analyses of the microstructures and mechanical 
properties of the Mg base materials are conducted. 
In order to gain excellent mechanical properties, 
different processes can be applied to refine the grain size, 
which would in turn affect the formability and 
superplasticity properties and so forth. For example, 
rapid solidification, powder metallurgy, rolling, equal 
channel angular pressing, forging, and extrusion are 
among the processing routes frequently studies and 
applied. The following are the short reviews.  
Refinement of microstructure through rapid 
solidification processing of magnesium alloys can result 
in stronger, easily workable, and more corrosion resistant 
 4
The spray forming process (SFP) is recently 
considered to be a potential tool to produce advanced 
materials and MMCs. It is an inert gas atomization of a 
liquid stream into variously sized droplets which are then 
propelled away form the region of atomization by fast 
flowing atomizing gas. Droplets are subsequently 
deposited and collected by a substrate on which 
solidification takes place. Finally a coherent and near 
fully dense preform is produced. This resembles the 
physical or chemical vapor deposition, in which 
individual atoms, instead of droplets consisting of 
numerous atoms in spray forming, are deposited onto a 
substrate. The spray forming procedure also gives the 
possibility to manufacture preforms of defined shape 
using moulds instead of substrate plates, even tubes can 
be prepared if a rotating mandrel is used instead of 
substrates. With properly controlled processing 
parameters such as gas pressure, gas flow rate, metal 
flow rate, pouring temperature, flight distance and so 
forth, droplets can maintain a thin semi-solid/semi-liquid 
layer on the deposited billet. Subsequently solidification 
may proceed gradually. In one extreme of the spray 
forming process while proceeding, the molten droplets 
can be allowed to completely solidify into solid powders 
before arriving at the substrate surface, which becomes a 
conventional powder synthesizing method. In the 
opposite extreme of the process, the molten droplets can 
be allowed to remain completely liquid before arriving at 
the substrate surface, which resembles the conventional 
metal casting method. It is due to the precisely controlled 
parameters that the outcome results show potential 
economic benefit and practical properties in comparison 
with both conventional ingot metallurgy (IM) and 
powder metallurgy (PM).  
There have been several other fabrication routes for 
producing nano-grained materials. However, coatings by 
PVD, CVD, or electrodeposition can only form thin or 
thick film materials. And conventional casting usually 
undergoes relatively lower solidification rate. Severe 
plastic deformation mostly results in larger nano-grains 
in the scale of hundreds of nanometer. Spray forming 
plus subsequent consolidation or secondary processing 
means are expected to render bulk nano-grained 
materials with ~100% density and minimum 
contamination. The success in fabrication of various 
nano-sized powders, wires or tubes has offered the new 
possibility in modifying existing commercial materials in 
terms of their functional or structural characteristics. But 
dispersion of the nano reinforcements in a uniform 
manner is a critical and difficult task. Due to the high 
surface area ratio, nano powders tend to cluster together, 
sometimes forming micro-sized aggregates. The spray 
forming technology provides another route. Particles 
added via spray forming, followed by extrusion or equal 
channel angular extrusion, can be uniformly distributed 
in the metal matrix. The interface between particles and 
metal matrix can be highly clean due to the extremely 
short reaction time via rapid solidification, and the 
subsequent extrusion may render high performance 
products of 100% full density. Meanwhile, recent 
developments of bulk amorphous alloys have been 
reported to exhibit even higher strength or toughness 
with the precipitation of nano-sized intermetallic phases 
upon subjected to thermal annealing. Nevertheless, the 
homogeneous nano precipitates in the amorphous matrix 
are highly sensitive and thermally unstable to the 
exposed temperature and duration. It is also difficult to 
control and maintain the nano size and desired volume 
fraction of the in-situ grown precipitates.  
 
 
2. Experimental  
 
The current project applies the addition via manual 
means of thermally stable ceramic nano powders into the 
light-weight Mg base alloys. Both the nano size and the 
volume fraction of the powders can be well controlled, 
and they are stable up to the melting temperature of the 
matrix Mg alloy. The processing routes of this group 
study, as summarized in Table 1, include preform 
preparation, spray forming (Figs. 1 and 2), and extrusion 
for the Mg-Al-Zn (AZ31 and AZ61) magnesium alloys 
in subprojects 1 (Tsao, NCKU) and 2 (Huang, NSYSU). 
The refinement of the Mg alloys and composites by 
ECAP (Figs. 3 and 4) are conducted mainly by 
subproject 3 (Chang, NSYSU). Finally, parallel studies 
using melt spinning (Figs. 5 and 6) and mechanical 
alloying are conducted on the experimental Mg-Cu-Y 
alloys, in order to compare the results obtained from the 
main effort in subproject 4 (Jang, ISU). The resulting 
modified Mg based materials will firstly evaluated by 
microstructural characterizations using TEM, SEM, 
DMA, and DSC. The mechanical property assessments 
for the second yeas include room and elevated 
temperature tensile and creep resistance tests, and room 
temperature fracture toughness tests, and wear resistance 
behavior, in preparation for future applications.  
 
 
Table 1  Summary of the materials, processing routes, 
and rough grain sizes, and the subprojects involved 
within the past year 
Material Processing Grain size, 
µm 
Subproject
AZ61Mg Spray 
forming + 
Extrusion 
2.5 1, 2 
SF AZ61Mg/ 
nano SiO2 
Spray 
forming + 
Extrusion  
1.5 1,2 
Cast AZ61Mg/
nano SiO2 
Casting + 
Extrusion 
2 2,4 
PM AZ61Mg/
nano SiO2 
PM + 
Extrusion 
1.5 2 
AZ31Mg ECAP 0.5 3 
AZ31Mg Extrusion 
+ ECAP 
0.6 2 
Mg-Cu-Y Melt 
spinning 
Amorphous 
or Nano 
4 
Mg-Cu-Y-(Ag)/
Nano ZrO2 
Melt 
spinning + 
MA 
Amorphous 
or Nano 
4 
 
 
 6
 
 
Fig. 6  Photograph of the melt spinning facility in Sun 
Yat-Sen Univ (Subproject II). 
 
 
3. Results and discussion 
 
The major achievement for the third year was to 
help in understanding the microstructures, strengthening, 
and toughness of (1) the AZ61Mg/SiO2 composite 
through spray forming, (2) the AZ61 Mg powders 
through spray forming, (3) AZ61Mg/SiO2 
nanocomposites via the PM method plus hot extrusion, 
(4) the submicron fine-grained Mg alloys via ECAP or 
high-ratio extrusion, and (5) the Mg-Cu-Y-(Ag)/ZrO2 
composites via the melt spinning and mechanical 
alloying.  
Some of the main results are presented below. 
Figure 7 shows the semi-uniform distribution of the nano 
particles in the SF composite as viewed under SEM. A 
more close look of the nano and micron phases are 
presented in the TEM micrograph and associated 
diffraction pattern in Fig. 8, showing not only the 
amorphous nano SiO2 phase, but also the crystalline 
MgO and Mg2Si phases induced during the reaction of 
Mg and SiO2 at high temperatures during spray forming, 
sintering, and induction casting.  
The strengthening mechanisms and the toughness of 
the resulting nano-composites are the main focus for the 
third year. Tables 2 and 3 are the overall summary.  
 
 
 
 
Fig. 7  SEM micrograph showing the distribution of the 
nano particles 
 
 
Fig. 8  TEM microgrpah showing the rings from 
crystalline MgO (with the weak halo intensity from the 
amorphous SiO2 overshadowed by the rings patterns).  
 
 
Figures 9 and 10 show the SEM and TEM 
micrographs of the AZ31 alloy after three-step ECAP 
processing at 200, 150, and 125oC, respectively. The 
resulting grain size is around 0.6 µm (Fig. 11), which is a 
promising value. The dynamically recrystallized 
percentage is estimated to around 60-80% (Fig. 11) This 
ECAP alloy show significantly higher tensile strength up 
to 450 MPa, coupled with appreciable tensile elongation 
of ~25%, as presented in Fig. 12. The high room 
temperature tensile strength of 450 MPa is a record 
braking value for the AZ31 unreinforced alloy.  
 
 
Table 2  The theoretical strengthening values using 
the pythagorean (or square) addition rule compared with 
the experimental data obtained by tensile tests 
 
Material
Processin
g 
condition
Orow
an  
σo 
MPa 
Hall-
Petch 
σHP  
MPa 
Theo 
YS 
σtheo 
MPa
Exp 
YS
σexp 
MPa
AZ61 
alloy 
As-receiv
ed billet 3 96 99 112
SF0.2% 
SiO2 
As-spray-f
ormed 39 126 165 -- 
SF0.2%
SiO2 
Extruded 
at 400oC 39 168 207 247
SF0.2%
SiO2 
Extruded 
at 300oC 39 242 281 263
IM0.2%
SiO2 
Extruded 
at 400oC 39 211 250 280
PM0.2
%SiO2
Extruded 
at 400oC 53 198 251 268
IM 
1%SiO2
Extruded 
at 300oC 91 225 316 230
PM 
1%SiO2
Extruded 
at 300oC 107 264 371 330
IM 
3%SiO2
Extruded 
at 300oC 168 260 428 234
PM 
5%SiO2
Extruded 
at 300oC 227 235 462 281
 
 
______ 5 µm 
 8
 
 
 
 
Fig. 13  Representative stress and strain curves obtained 
from spray-formed nano-composites. 
 
 
 
Fig. 14  The jump strain rate tests under compression 
mode for the resulting nano-composites 
 
As for the Mg base amorphous matrix reinforced by 
nano particles, successful results have been achieved. 
This MA composite with 5% nano particles still 
remained to be amorphous in the Mg matrix, even after 
50 h MA processing, as shown in Fig. 15. Systematic 
TEM characterizations have been done on the interface 
between nano-ZrO2 and the amorphous matrix, an 
example is shown in Fig. 16. The nano-crystallization 
has also been traced by DSC and TEM (Fig. 17).  
 
 
20 30 40 50 60 70 80
ZrO
2
(111)
 
 
 A
rb
itr
ar
y 
in
te
ns
ity
2 θ
5Ag
5Ag+5%ZrO2
5Ag+3%ZrO2
5Ag+1%ZrO2
ZrO
2
(111)
 
Fig. 15  XRD patterns of the hot-pressed composite 
alloy sample of amorphous Mg65Y10Cu20Ag5 with 
different content of ZrO2 particles. 
 
                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.  16  TEM micrograph showing the ZrO2 particles 
and its interface 
  
  
 
Fig. 17  Representative TEM micrographs showing the 
nano-crystalline phases evolved from the amorphous 
matrix 
 
It should be noted that the hardness of the 
amorphous Mg based alloys itself, ~250-300 Hv, is 
 10
Bulk Hybrid Composite and Melt-Spun Ribbon 
Hybrid Composite Consisting of Amorphous and 
Nanostructured Phases of Al89Nd4Ni5Cu2”, 
Intermetallics, Vol. 14, 2006, pp. 1069-1074. 
(16) L. J. Chang, J. S. C. Jang, J. H. Young, J. C. Huang, 
Chi Y.A. Tsao, “Synthesis and Characterization of 
the Mg-Based Amorphous/ Nano ZrO2 Composite 
Alloy”, Intermetallics, Vol. 14, 2006, pp. 945-950. 
(17) Y. N. Wang, C. I. Chang, C. J. Lee, H. K. Lin, and J. 
C. Huang, “Texture and weak Grain Size 
Dependence of Yield Stress in Friction Stir 
Processed Mg-Al-Zn Alloy”, Vol. 55, Scripta Mater., 
2006, pp. 637-640. 
(18) Y. P. Hung, J.C. Huang, K. J. Wu, and Chi Y.A. Tsao, 
“Strengthening and Toughness of AZ61 Mg with 
Nano SiO2 Particles”, Mater. Trans. (JIM), Vol. 47, 
2006, pp. 1985-1993. 
(19) Chen, C. Y. and Tsao, Chi Y. A., 2005, “Spray 
Forming of AZ91 Magnesium Alloys with and 
without Si Addition,” Materials Science Forum, 
475-479, 2789-2794. 
(20) Chen, C. Y. and Tsao, Chi Y. A., 2004/10, “Spray 
forming of silicon added AZ91 magnesium alloy and 
its workability,” Materials Science and Engineering, 
A 383, 21–29. 
(21) Y. T. Cheng, T. H. Hung, J. C. Huang, P. J. Hsieh, 
and J. S. C. Jang, “The Thermal Stability and 
Crystallization Kinetics of Mg-Cu-Y-B Alloys”, 
Mater. Sci. Eng. A, 2006 (on line). 
(22) L. J. Chang, I. H. Wang, J. S. C. Jang, G. J. Chen, T. 
H. Hung, and J. C. Huang, “Crystallization Kinetics 
and Thermal Stability of the Zr60Al7.5 Cu17.5Ni10Si4B1 
Alloy by Isothermal DSC and TEM Observation”, 
Mater. Sci. Eng. A, 2006 (on line).  
(23) W. C. Liu, P. Y. Lee, C. K. Lin, and J. C. Huang, 
“Fabrication of Mg-Y-Cu Bulk Metallic Glass by 
Mechanical Alloying and Hot Consolidation”, Mater. 
Sci. Eng. A, 2006 (on line).  
(24) T. H. Hung, Y. C. Chang, H. M. Chen, Y. L. Tsai, J. 
C. Huang, J. S. C. Jang, and T. G. Nieh, “Thermal 
and Mechanical Properties of 
Mg-Cu(Ni)-Gd(Y)-B(Si) Amorphous Alloys”, Mater. 
Sci. Forum, 2006 (in press).  
(25) C. I. Chang, C. J. Lee, C. H. Chuang, H. R. Pei, and 
J. C. Huang, “On Mg-Al-Zn Intermetallic Alloys 
Made by Friction Stir Processing Containing 
Quasi-Crystals and Amorphous Phases”, Mater. Sci. 
Forum, 2006 (in press).  
(26) J. S. C. Jang, L. J. Chang, J. H. Young, J. C. Huang, 
Chi Y.A. Tsao, “Mechnical Properties of the 
Mg-Based Amorphous Zirconia Composite Alloy”, 
Mater. Sci. Forum, 2006 (in press).  
(27) L. J. Chang, J. S. C. Jang, B. C. Yang, and J. C. 
Huang, "Crystallization and Thermal Stability of the 
Amorphous Mg65Cu25-xGd10Agx (x=0 ~ 10) Alloys", 
Journal of Alloy and Compounds, 2006 (in press).  
(28) C. J. Lee and J. C. Huang, “High Strain Rate 
Superplasticity in Mg Based Composites Fabricated 
by Friction Stir Processing”, accepted by Mater. 
Trans (JIM), 2006. 
(29) T. H. Hung, J. C. Huang, Jason S. C. Jang, and S.C. 
Lu, “Improved thermal stability of amorphous 
ZrAlCuNi alloys with Si and B”, submitted to 
Scripta Mater. 2006.  
(30) K. F. Chang, M.-L. T. Guo, R. H. Kong, and Chi 
Y.A. Tsao, J. C. Huang, and J. S. C. Jang, 
“Mg-Cu-Gd Layered Composite Plate Synthesized 
via Spray Forming Process”, submitted to Mater. Sci. 
Eng. A, 2006.  
(31) Y. N. Wang and J. C. Huang, “Grain size 
dependence of yield strength in randomly textured 
Mg-Al-Zn alloy”, submitted to Scripta Mater, 2006. 
(32) C.I. Chang, Y. N. Wang, H. R. Pei, C. J. Lee, J. C. 
Huang, “Microstructure and Mechanical Properties 
of Nano-ZrO2 and Nano-SiO2 Particulate Reinforced 
AZ31-Mg Based Composites Fabricated by Friction 
Stir Processing”, submitted to Key Eng Mater., 
2006.  
(33) Y. N. Wang and J. C. Huang, “Influence of 
compressive pre-deformation on tensile deformation 
behavior in hot-extruded Mg alloy”, accepted by 
Acta Mater., 2006.  
(34) T. H. Hung, Y. C. Chang, Y. N. Wang, C. W. Tang, H. 
M. Chen, Y. L. Tsai, J. C. Huang, J. S. C. Jang, and 
C. T. Liu, “Development of Mg Based Amorphous 
Alloys with Higher Amounts of Rare Earth 
Elements”, submitted to Intermetallics, 2006.  
(35) H. M. Chen, Y. C. Chang, T. H. Hung, J. C. Huang, J. 
S. C. Jang, and P. K. Liaw, “Compression Properties 
of Mg-Cu-Gd Bulk Metallic Glasses with Various 
Specimen Height to Diameter Ratios”, submitted to 
Intermetallics, 2006. 
(36) Y. C. Chang, T. H. Hung, J. C. Huang, T. G. Nieh, 
“Effect of Free Volume on Serration and Negative 
Thermal Expansion Coefficient in Mg Based 
Glasses under Nano-Indentation and 
Thermomechanical Analysis”, submitted to 
Intermetallics, 2006. 
(37) Y. C. Lo, S. P. Ju, and J. C. Huang, “Atomic 
Structural Evolution of Zr-Ni and Zr-Ti during 
Accumulative Roll Bonding Using 
Honeycutt-Anderson (HA) Pair Analysis”, submitted 
to Intermetallics, 2006. 
(38) C. T. Wang, Y. C. Lo, S. P. Ju, C. H. Chien, and J. C. 
Huang, “Molecular Dynamics Simulation for 
Material Response of Crystalline and Amorphous 
Pure Zr Metallic Films under Nano-Indentation”, 
submitted to Intermetallics, 2006. 
(39) K. C. Hsieh, H. M. Chen, J. C. Huang, J. S. C. Jang, 
and Y. A. Chang, “Thermodynamic Approach for 
Selecting Bulk Glass Composition of Mg-Cu-Ag-Y 
alloys”, submitted to Intermetallics, 2006. 
(40) L. R. Chang, G. R. Fang, L. S. Lee, J. S. C. Jang, J. 
C. Huang, and Chi Y. A. Tsao, “Mechanical 
Properties of the Hot Pressed 
Mg65Cu20Y10Ag5/Nano-ZrO2 Based Amorphous 
Matrix Composites”, submitted to Intermetallics, 
2006. 
(41) C. C. Zeng, L. J. Chang, C. F. Chang,W. J. Lee, J. S. 
C. Jang, J. C. Huang, and C. T. Liu, “Glass Forming 
Ability and Thermal Properties of the Mg Based 
Amorphous Alloys with Dual Rare Earth Elements 
Addition”, submitted to Intermetallics, 2006. 
(42) M.-L. Ted Guo, Chi Y.A. Tsao, J. C. Huang, and J. S. 
