 - 1 - 
摘要 
本研究致力於適用於網路之數位遺囑系統設計，採用加密機制來確保傳送資料的安全
性，利用簽章機制確保遺囑內容的不可否認性，希望能以最少量的運算成本達成安全通訊的
目的。隨著網路通訊的快速發展，各式電子商務應用已成未來重要商業活動的趨勢。為確立
各項交易的有效性與安全性，政府目前已通過並實施電子簽章法，並提出相關的輔導計畫，
鼓勵民間企業各界建置安全的 e 化環境。由於資訊基礎建設的可用及易用性，人們的平常生
活也逐漸與資訊化電子化產生關聯。而在生命教育及宗教團體的提倡下，社會大眾慢慢地接
受往生前預立遺囑，以減少身後的遺產糾紛。遺囑的預立必須要在法院，或是在公證人及見
證人的共同見證下始具備法律效力；而如果立遺囑者欲修改其遺囑，亦需要前述相關人員的
見證。所以，要產生一份傳統的遺囑，需要相當的成本（如見證人及公證人的費用和交通成
本等），且因為複雜程序以致於效率亦差。本計畫預期利用公開金鑰基礎建設的架構，以金鑰
託管的概念，建構一個符合需求，滿足安全性與實用性的數位化遺囑系統模型。 
關鍵字：遺囑系統、金鑰託管、遺囑信託、公開金鑰密碼系統 
 
Abstract 
The rapid growth of network communications brings applications of electronic commerce to 
become the future trend of commercial activities. For ensuring the effectiveness of transactions, our 
government has put the electronic signature law into practice. She also proposed guiding or 
assisting projects to encourage or help enterprises and organizations to construct secure electronic 
environments. Because of availability and easy-of-use of information infrastructure, human’s daily 
life is connected with digitalization little by little. With the promotion of life education and 
religious groups, people gradually accept the concept of writing down wills before their death, 
which can reduce conflicts and arguments about inheritance. A legitimate will can be produced in 
the Court or with the witness of notaries. If the testator wishes to modify his will, he must again 
perform the above procedures. Since it requires some fees as well as traffic costs for notaries and 
witnesses, the production of a traditional will is rather costly. It might be also inefficient for its 
complicated witness procedures. Based on the mechanisms of public key infrastructure and key 
escrow systems, this project is planned to construct a secure and realistic model for digital will 
system which is suitable for practically implementation. 
Keywords: Will system, key escrow, testamentary trust, public key cryptosystem 
  
1.  序論 
隨著數位化時代的來臨，網際網路的蓬勃發展及個人化電腦的進步，數位革命已經徹底
改變我們的生活方式並顛覆傳統的文件處理模式。近年來，在生命教育及宗教團體的提倡下，
人們漸漸能接受預立遺囑的概念，他們理解到預立遺囑是件很重要的事情，而預先寫下人生
最後的規劃書--遺囑。預立遺囑必須在法院或公證處，在公證人及見證人的同時見證下，依
立遺囑者的意願完成他的遺囑，才算是一份有法律效力的遺囑。若需要修改遺囑內容時，則
必須再次到法院公證其遺囑，這意謂著修改遺囑，維護遺囑的困難及它的成本高(例如交通成
 - 3 - 
系統。此章節將介紹所提架構所使用之相關理論，不僅可防止共謀的攻擊且證明是安全且可
行的系統架構。加密演算法 (Encryption algorithm) 或數位簽章演算法 (Digital signature 
algorithm)，是目前網路上使用最廣泛的密碼技術。以電子商務或電子交易的應用為例，若要
達到安全性則必須滿足機密性 (Confidentiality)、完整性 (Integrity)、鑑別性 (Authentication)、
存取控制 (Access control) 以及不可否認性 (Non-repudiation) 五個安全需求 [Sta10]。「機密
性」指攻擊者無法從訊息中推導出任何秘密資訊。「完整性」指通訊的內容不能遭到竄改或偽
造。「鑑別性」指訊息接收者可以利用一些公開資訊驗證訊息，以確認訊息確實為某位傳送者
所傳送的。「存取控制」意指避免資源在未經授權下被使用。「不可否認性」指在訊息傳送之
後，傳送者不能否認曾經傳送過比訊息或接收者不能否認曾經接收過此訊息。 
密碼技術上利用加密演算法來達到機密性，以數位簽章演算法完成完整性、鑑別性與不
可否認性的安全需求 [MWX02, Sha85, Sta10]。為同時達到上述的需求，傳統作法是採用兩階
段方式，即分別對訊息加密與對訊息產生簽章兩個步驟。亦即傳送者先利用數位簽章技術中
的簽章產生機制(Signature generation mechanism) 對交易內容產生數位簽章，再利用加解密技
術中的加密機制 (Encryption mechanism) 對交易內容與其數位簽章進行加密產生密文 
(Ciphertext)，最後將此密文傳送給接收者。對接收者而言，則是先利用解密機制 (Decryption 
mechanism) 對該密文進行解密，再利用簽章驗證機制 (Signature verification mechanism) 對
交易內容的數位簽章進行驗證，以確認該交易的有效性 (Validity)。 
1992 年，Micali [Mic92] 首先提出利用非對稱式加解密運算模式來實現金鑰託管的概
念。一般稱之為私鑰託管的金鑰加密系統 (Private-key-escrow cryptosystem) 或稱公鑰基礎的
金鑰託管系統 (Public-key-based escrow System)。傳送者利用接收者的公鑰來保護通訊金鑰，
而接收者使用其私鑰解出通訊金鑰，以進行秘密通訊。而其作法係將使用者的私鑰交由公正
的第三者託管 [Mic92, Sha95]，使用者使用其已被託管的私鑰所對應之公鑰進行金鑰交換或
加解密運算。而執法單位在法院授權下，可透過私鑰託管單位的配合重組回通訊金鑰，對有
嫌疑的使用者進行監聽。1993 年，美國政府公佈金鑰託管系統 (Key escrow system, EKS)，
使用對稱式加解密運算模式來保護通訊金鑰，並於 1994 年制定成託管加密標準 (Escrowed 
encryption standard, EES) [DS94, FIPS94]。政府允許相關執法單位 (Law enforcement agency, 
LEA) 能夠在使用者的隱私通訊下，針對有犯罪嫌疑之組織或個人進行監聽，同時也兼顧到
合法通訊者的通訊安全。 
 
3. 所提模型 
我們利用金鑰託管的概念，建構數位遺囑象統，為確保網路應用的安全，利用公鑰的技
巧及數位簽章的特性來達到機密性 (Confidentiality)、完整性 (Integrity)、鑑別性 (Authenticity)
及不可否認性 (Non-repudiation) 的需求。所提系統模型架構說明如圖一，參與成員包含立遺
囑者 (Testator)、遺囑執行者 (Conservator)、遺囑銀行 (Will Bank)、法院 (Court) 及受益人 
(Beneficiaries)，系統運作起始時，立遺囑者先找一個他可信任的人當他遺囑的執行者並跟遺
囑信託銀行簽訂契約。整個架構的運作，可分為系統初始階段、遺囑產生階段、維護階段、
 - 5 - 
5. 結論 
遺囑託管對傳統習俗而言是一個新概念，本研究利用金鑰託管之觀念來設計數位遺囑系
統模型，結合加解密的方法及數位簽章的技術以達到機密性、完整性、鑑別性及不可否認性
的安全需求。立遺囑者利用秘密分享的機制及公鑰加密的方法，可依據自己的意願產生並維
護遺囑。當立遺囑者往生後，受益人必須分別解開自己所屬之次金鑰，再結合其他受益人之
遺囑次金鑰成為遺囑密鑰，在遺囑銀行見證下，開啟遺囑，方可公佈遺囑。當受益人發生嚴
重爭議時，依程序向法院申請公佈遺囑，藉此應可避免很多不必要的爭議。在現行法律下，
此架構模型中，立遺囑者可根據自己的意願產生並維護其預立之遺囑，同時兼顧隱私權，滿
足網路上的各項安全需求，並且提供健全的安全機制，為本文的最大貢獻。 
 
6. 計畫成果自評 
有鑑於數位技術日漸成熟，遺囑託管在未來的社會運作需求上，有其潛在的發展性。本
研究致力於適用於網路之數位遺囑系統設計，建立一個合適的遺囑託管操作模型，在安全的
要求上，結合公鑰及密鑰密碼系統並配合安全協定的建制，以符合一般社會大眾對遺囑託管
系統的可能期望，並可以提供未來實務界及學術界做相關研究的意見及參考。另外，在研究
過程中的參與人員，均能對於公開金鑰密碼系統、群體加密方法、遺囑之法律知識、網路應
用相關等知識，建立深刻的瞭解以及提升相關的研究能力。 
 
參考文獻 
[DS94] D. E. Denning and M. Smid, “Key escrowing today,” IEEE Communications Magazine, 
Vol. 32, No. 9, 1994, pp. 54-68. 
[DH76] W. Diffie and M. E. Hellman, “New directions in cryptography,” IEEE Transactions on 
Information Theory, Vol. 22, No. 6, 1976, pp. 644-654. 
[ElG85] T. ElGamal, “A public key cryptosystem and a signature scheme based on discrete 
logarithms,” IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, Vol. 31, No. 4, 1985, pp. 
469-472. 
[FCS09]  R. H. Fan, Y. M. Chen, and J. H. Shao, “The study of testamentary trust business,” 
http://www.trust.org.tw/files/981202.pdf, available online in 2009.12.17. 
[FIP94] FIPS 185, “Escrowed encryption standard (EES),” Federal Information Processing 
Standards Publication 185, U.S. Department of Commerce, 1994. 
[ISO93] ISO/IEC 9594-8, Information Technology – Open Systems Interconnection – the 
Directory: Authentication Framework, International Organization for Standardization, 
1995 (equivalent to ITU-t Rec. X. 509, 1993). 
[ISO89]  ISO, “Information processing systems – Open Systems Interconnection – Basic 
reference model – Part 2: Security architecture”, International Organization for 
Standardization, Geneva, Switzerland, 1989 (first edition) (equivalent to ITU-T Rec. 
X.800). 
[MWX02] B. Meng, S. Wang and Q. Xiong, “A fair non-repudiation protocol,” Proceedings of the 
7th International Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work in Design 
(CSCW’02), Brazil, 2002, pp. 68-73. 
 1
出席國際學術會議報告 
100 年 1 月 24 日 
姓名 吳宗杉 單位 國立台灣海洋大學資訊工程學系 
會議地點 日本東京 會議時間 2011 年 1 月 18 日~2011 年 1 月 20 日 
會議名稱 
2011 International Conference on e-Commerce, e-Administration, 
e-Society, e-Education, e-Technology 
發表論文 Improved Time-Bound Hierarchical Key Assignment Scheme 
會議簡介 
內容摘要 
本 屆 會 議 (2011 International Conference on e-Commerce, 
e-Administration, e-Society, e-Education, and e-Technology ，簡稱
e-CASE & e-Tech 2011)為第五屆，會議地點為日本東京 Toshi Center 
Hotel，由日本 Waseda 大學的 Hajime Tozaki 教授主辦。第一屆會議
(e-CASE & e-Tech 2007)在香港舉行，第二屆會議 (e-CASE & e-Tech 
2008)在泰國曼谷舉行，第三屆會議(e-CASE & e-Tech 2009)則是在新
加坡舉行、第四屆會議(e-CASE & e-Tech 2010)則是在澳門舉行。
e-CASE & e-Tech 國際會議主要宗旨在於提供一個交流平台，以供全
世界的研究員、工程師、學術研究者及企業經理人等發表在電子商務
(e-Commerce) 、 電 子 化 管 理 (e-Administration) 、 電 子 化 社 會
(e-Society)、電子化教育(e-Education)及電子化技術(e-Technology)方
面的研究成果與開發活動。本國際會議提供一個國際交流平台，讓所
有參與者發表其研究成果、進行學術研究交流，更可以透過面對面交
 3
Location Dependent Collaborative Filtering Recommendation System  
Chiu Ching Tuan 
Chi Fu Hung 
Tzu Chieh Kuei 
National Taipei University of Technology 
National Taipei University of Technology 
National Taipei University of Technology 
Effects of Scale Formats and Background Styles on Visualizing Bar Graph  
Chatpong Tangmanee 
Promwith Jittarat 
Chulalongkorn University 
Chulalongkorn University 
A Monitoring System Based on Behavior Analysis  
C. Y. Fang 
B. R. Shao 
S. W. Chen 
National Taiwan Normal University 
National Taiwan Normal University 
National Taiwan Normal University 
  
e-Technology Program 
Jan. 19  10:20-11:40 (Room 708) 
Physicians' reactions to healthcare information technology: the moderating 
effects of the compatibility beliefs 
I-Chun Lin 
Chi-Hung Lin 
Jinsheng Roan 
Li-Fang Hu 
Hung Kuang University 
National Chung Cheng University 
National Chung Cheng University 
Taichung Veterans General Hospital 
The Development of Web-based Clinical Information System for the 
Cardiovascular Surgery  
Nan-Chen Hsieh 
Wen-Pin Hung 
Chien-Hui Chan 
Shen-Yuan Tang 
National Taipei University of Nursing and 
Health Sciences 
National Taipei University of Nursing and 
Health Sciences 
Tamkang University  
National Taipei University of Nursing and 
Health Sciences 
Web Services Security Monitoring Tool  
Pongsak Gransamran 
Wiwat Vatanawood 
Chulalongkorn University 
Chulalongkorn University 
Combine ITIL and COBIT with QOS ontology to measure Web Services  
Pattama Charuenporn 
Sarun Intagosum 
King Mongkut's Institute of Technology 
Ladkrabang 
King Mongkut's Institute of Technology 
Ladkrabang 
The Relationship between Corporate Social Responsibility, Customer 
 5
Fu-Chiung Cheng Tatung University 
  
e-Technology Program 
Jan. 19  13:40-15:00 (Room 708) 
RFID Service Platform for Campus Secure Applications 
Yao-Chung Chang 
Yu-Shan Lin 
Ching-Jung Wang 
National Taitung University 
National Taitung University 
National Taitung University 
Bridging the Information, Service and Supply Chain Gaps of Cotton Growers of
Vidarbha Region in Central India  
Archana Shrivastava 
Datta Meghe Institute of Management 
Studies 
Innovative Community-Oriented Electronic Remittance System as Efficient and 
Secure Money Transfer Solution for Migrant Workers  
Farania Rangkuti 
Asim Koldzo 
Freddy Rangkuti 
King Abdullah University of Science and 
Technology 
Georgetown University 
Jayabaya University 
Developing a cluster based sampling method for imbalanced bloggers’ sentiment
data  
Long-Sheng Chen 
Li-Wei Lin 
Chun-Chin Hsu 
Chaoyang University of Technology 
Chaoyang University of Technology 
Chaoyang University of Technology 
Roadmaps for e-Technology Management  
Yee Choy Leong 
Kenny Teoh Guan Cheng 
Yong Hua Lung 
Mat K. Awang 
Universiti Putra Malaysia 
Universiti Putra Malaysia 
Universiti Putra Malaysia  
Universiti Putra Malaysia 
  
e-Technology Program 
Jan. 20  08:40-10:00 (Room 608) 
Using Filtered Second Order Co-occurrence Matrix to Improve the Traditional 
Co-occurrence Model 
Chun-Hung Lu    
Chorng-Shyong Ong    
Wen-Lian Hsu   
Hsing-Kuo Lee   
National Taiwan University 
National Taiwan University 
Academia Sinica 
Academia Sinica 
 7
Yang, Chen-Lung    
Lien, Su-Yuan 
Chung-Hua University 
Chung-Hua University 
Effect of Service Chain Integration on Customer Loyalty: An Examination of 
Taiwan’s Mobile Telecommunication Service 
Chen-Lung Yang   
Ya-Hui Chan    
Shu-Ping Lin   
Chung-Hua University 
Chung-Hua University 
Chung-Hua University 
An Anti-Data Mining Data Perturbation Scheme Based on Support Vector 
Machine 
Tung-Shou Chen   
Jeanne Chen   
Pei-Wen Hou   
Yuan-Hung Kao 
National Taichung Institute of Technology 
National Taichung Institute of Technology 
National Taichung Institute of Technology 
Feng Chia University 
  
e-Technology Program 
Jan. 20  12:00-13:20 (Room 608) 
Exploring the difference between Smartphone’s gesture control and users’ 
cognitive 
Kai-Ming Yang    
Hunghsiang Wang   
Lai-Chung Lee  
National Taipei University of Technology 
National Taipei University of Technology 
National Taipei University of Technology 
The Impacts of the Merger between Taiwan Mobile and Kbro (Cable) on 
Taiwan’s Telecom Industry from the Perspective of Digital Convergence 
Chen, Ya-Chen   Yuan Ze University 
A Comparison of Two E-commerce Based Product Presentation Methods 
Rou-Wen Wang   
Chiuhsiang Joe Lin    
Shiau-Feng Lin  
Ting-Chou Lin   
Yang-Tien Chang  
Chung-Yuan Christian University 
Chung-Yuan Christian University 
Chung-Yuan Christian University 
Chung-Yuan Christian University 
Chung-Yuan Christian University 
An Architecture Based on Android Platform for Telematics System 
Lu-Wei Ko  
Pin-Hao Lin  
I-Chin Chiu   
Chin-Yuan Chang   
Shu-Te University 
Shu-Te University 
Shu-Te University 
Shu-Te University 
Grid Computing Based Evolutionary Approach for Tumor Classification of 
Microarray Data 
T.-C.  Chen    National Formosa University 
 9
Hui-Kuang Chung   Institute for Information Industry 
ICT and eSkills Frameworks for Standardizing eSkills Job Market 
Mehdi Asgarkhani 
Jun Wan  
Christchurch Polytechnic Institute of Technology
Christchurch Polytechnic Institute of Technology
Using SNA to Discover Latent User Groups in Online-Game BBS 
Yi-Jen Su    
Feng-Bo Huang    
Yuh-Ming Cheng   
Shu-Te University 
Shu-Te University 
Shu-Te University 
A RFID based Route Recommendation Service for Theme Parks 
Chieh-Yuan Tsai    
Shang-Hsuan Chung   
Yuan Ze University 
Yuan Ze University 
Modeling and Analysis using p-Time Petri Nets based Workflow-Net 
Chyun-Chyi Chen  
Yueh-Min Huang  
Der-Fang Shiau  
National Cheng Kung University 
National Cheng Kung University 
Fooyin University 
Improved Time-Bound Hierarchical Key Assignment Scheme 
Chien-Lung Hsu  
Yu-Li Lin   
Tzong-Sun Wu 
Chang Gung University 
Ministry of Justice 
National Taiwan Ocean University 
此次會議除了論文發表外，亦從各議程的論文發表了解今年
e-CASE 及 e-Tech 最新的研究議題及貢獻。相關會議照片分列如下：
   
 圖1 會場照片(許建隆副教授)  圖2 會場照片(林育梨博士) 
 11
  
 
圖 7 林育梨博士論文發表 
  
圖 8 學者論文發表 
與會心得 
本人參加本次會議之目的有二： 
1. 發表論文「Improved Time-Bound Hierarchical Key Assignment 
Scheme」。(如附件一) 
2. 與國際學者進行學術交流，交流研究成果以及提昇國際能見度與
視野。 
  除了透過本次會議發表研究成果之論文外，亦從會中獲得不少新
知與實務經驗和作法，尤其是電子商務之技術與模式、團購行為模式
 1
Improved Time-Bound Hierarchical Key Assignment 
Scheme 
 
 
Chien-Lung Hsu a,e, Yu-Li Lin b*, and Tzong-Sun Wu c,e 
 
a Department of Information Management 
Chang Gung University 
Tao-Yuan 333, Taiwan, Republic of China (R.O.C.) 
 
b Ministry of Justice, Investigation Bureau 
Taipei 231, Taiwan, Republic of China (R.O.C.) 
 
c Department of Computer Science and Engineering 
National Taiwan Ocean University 
Keelung 202, Taiwan, Republic of China (R.O.C.) 
 
d Department of Information Management 
National Taiwan University of Science and Technology 
Taipei 106, Taiwan, Republic of China (R.O.C.) 
 
e Taiwan Information Security Center at NTUST (TWISC@NTUST) 
 
*Correspondence to: 
Yu-Li Lin, Ph. D. 
Ministry of Justice, Investigation Bureau 
74, Chung-Hua Rd. Hsin-Tien City, 
Taipei County 231, Taiwan, Republic of China  
E-mail: andrinalin@gmail.com 
Tel: +886-2-2911-2241 ext 2985 
Fax: +886-2-8919-3291 
 3
control problems. MacKinnon et al. [4] presented an optimal algorithm, called the 
canonical algorithm, to reduce the number of public parameters as compared with Akl 
and Taylor’s scheme [1]. Sandhu [5] addressed a novel cryptographic solution to 
access control problem for the special case of a rooted tree hierarchy. The keys for 
security classes are iteratively generated by using one-way functions. This approach is 
easier for implementation.  
Harn and Lin [3] proposed a bottom-up key generation scheme, instead of using a 
top-down approach as in the Akl and Taylor’s scheme. The results showed that Harn 
and Lin’s scheme is not only more efficient in the memory utilization since it needs 
less space to keep public information, but also can handle new user’s insertion 
without changing all keys. Some interesting applications have become more prevalent, 
for example, electronic paper subscription and digital TV broadcasting. In these 
applications, a user may be assigned to a certain class for only a period of time. The 
users need distinct keys to encrypt their data in different time periods. The 
implementation of conventional key assignment schemes [1, 3, 4, 5] required users to 
handle a large number of keys, which are impractical and inefficient for 
implementation. 
In 2002, Tzeng [8] proposed a time-bound cryptographic key assignment scheme 
in which the cryptographic keys of a class are distinct for each time period. Tzeng’s 
scheme can be applied to broadcast encrypted data to authorized users through a 
broadcast channel and to construct a flexible cryptographic key backup system. 
However, Tzeng’s scheme is insecure against the collusion attack demonstrated by Yi 
and Ye [10]. A coalition of classes with distinct time periods can cooperate to 
compute unauthorized keys that they should not be able to learn. To improve Tzeng’s 
scheme, Chien [2] later proposed a new time-bound hierarchical key assignment 
scheme that employed a low-cost tamper-resistant device to perform simple arithmetic 
operations. Chien’s scheme reduce the implementation costs and the computational 
loads. Santis, Ferrara, and Masucci [6] recently showed that Chien’s scheme is still 
vulnerable to collusion attack which is contrary to his claimed security requirements. 
That is, some malicious users can collusively to extend the time period of their secret 
keys. Santis, Ferrara, and Masucci [7] further proposed an improvement to eliminate 
the security flaws inherent in Chien’s scheme. This paper, however, will demonstrate 
the incorrectness of Santis et al.’s scheme. That is, the key derivation will fail in 
Santis et al.’s scheme, which implies their scheme cannot achieve the claimed 
security requirements. We finally will propose an improved scheme to correct Santis 
et al.’s scheme. 
Rest of this paper is sketched as follows. In Section 2, we will review Santis et 
al.’s scheme [7]. In Section 3, we will demonstrate the incorrectness of Santis et al.’s 
 5
Key generation – Assume a user iU  belonging to the class iC  during the time 
period t  ( 21 ttt  ) can encrypt the data by the key tiK , . The key tiK ,  is defined 
as ))()()||((, bhahkXhhK
tzt
iti
 . 
 
Key derivation – When a user iU  belonging to class iC  in time interval ],[ 21 tt  
wants to decrypt the encrypted data of the class jC  at time period t, where ij CC  , 
there is no class lC  such that ilj CCC  , and 21 ttt  . The user iU  inputs 
the public value ijr , the identity iID , and the secret key ik  to the temper-resistant 
device. The device performs the following steps to derive the decryption key tjK , : 
Step 1. Use the public information ijr  and iC ’s secret key ik  to compute jC ’s 
secret information )||( jkXh  by  
)||||||()||( ijiijj kIDIDXhrkXh          (2) 
Step 2. Compute )(aht  and )(bh tz  as ))(()( 11 ahhah tttt   and 
))(()( 22 bhhbh tztttz   . 
Step 3. Derive jC ’s secret key tjK ,  by ))()()||((, bhahkXhhK
tzt
jtj
 . 
If there exists some class(es) between iC  and jC , the user iU  can use above 
method to iteratively derive the secret key(s) of lC ’s, where ilj CCC   in time 
interval ],[ 21 tt . All above steps will be performed iteratively by the same way.  
 
3. Incorrectness and improvement of Santis et al.’s scheme 
In this section, we will show the incorrectness of Santis et al.’s scheme and then 
propose the improvement to correct Santis et al.’s scheme. 
 
3.1 Incorrectness of Santis et al.’s scheme 
 7
For example, the set of classes is organized as a user hierarchy such as Figure 1. 
The users belonging to 321 ,, CCC , and 4C  are associated with time intervals 
],[ 61 tt , ],[ 52 tt , ],[ 43 tt , and ],[ 32 tt , respectively, where 
ztttttt  6543211 . As shown in Fig. 1, the users belonging to 1C  
have access right to the information held by those belonging to 4C . When the users 
in 1C  wants to derive 4C ’s secret key tK ,4  in the time period t ( 52 ttt  ), they 
have to input the public value 12r , the identity 1ID , and the secret key 1k  into his 
tamper-resistant device to compute )||||||()||( 121122 kIDIDXhrkXh  . If the 
users belonging to 1C  has the ability to reverse the one-way hash function h, he can 
derive 2k  from the derived )||( 2kXh . Then, they can further derive the secret key 
by the following equations: 
 )||||||()||( 242244 kIDIDXhrkXh   
 ))(()( 22 ahhah tttt  , ))(()( 55 bhhbh tztttz    
 ))()()||(( 4,4 bhahkXhhK
tzt
t
  
Since the security of Santis et al.’s scheme is primarily assumed based on the 
intractability of reversing the one-way hash function h, the users in 1C  cannot derive 
2k  from )||( 2kXh .  
 
 
Fig. 1 A small partially ordered hierarchy example 
 
3.2 The Proposed Improvement 
The incorrectness of Santis et al.’s scheme is caused by the fact that the secret 
key ik  cannot be derived from the secret value )||( ikXh . To eliminate this 
incorrectness, we can replace Eqs. (1) and (2) with Eqs. (1*) and (2*), respectively: 
 )||())||(||||( jijiij kXhkXhIDIDhr     (1*) 
 ))||(||||()||( ijiijj kXhIDIDhrkXh   (2*) 
C1
C2 C3
C4 
 9
key derivation only allows the users to derive the secret key for the direct successor of 
the intended class. The secret keys for all immediate successors of the intended class 
however cannot be derived, which is contrary to their claimed security requirements. 
We finally proposed an improvement to fix the pointed out problem. 
 
References 
[1] S.G. Akl and P.D. Taylor, Cryptographic solution to a problem of access control in 
a hierarchy, ACM Transactions on Computer System 1 (3) (1983) 239-248. 
[2] H.Y. Chien, Efficient time-bound hierarchical key assignment scheme, IEEE 
Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering 16 (10) (2004) 1301-1304. 
[3] L. Harn and H.Y. Lin, A cryptographic key generation scheme for multilevel data 
security, Computers and Security 9 (6) (1990) 539-546. 
[4] S.J. MacKinnon, P.D. Taylor, H. Meijer and S.G. Akl, An optimal algorithm for 
assigning cryptographic keys to control access in a hierarchy, IEEE Transactions 
on Computers 34 (9) (1985) 797-802. 
[5] R.S. Sandhu, Cryptographic implementation of a tree hierarchy for access control, 
Information Processing Letters 27 (2) (1988) 95-98. 
[6] A. Santis, A. Ferrara, and B. Masucci, On the insecurity of a time-bound 
hierarchical key assignment scheme, Tech. Report, Dept. of Math., University of 
Waterloo, cacr2005-07.ps, 2005. 
[7] A. Santis, A. Ferrara, and B. Masucci, Enforcing the security of a time-bound 
hierarchical key assignment scheme, Information Sciences 176 (12) (2006) 
1684-1694. 
[8] W.G. Tzeng, A time-bound cryptographic key assignment scheme for access 
control in a hierarchy, IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering 14 
(1) (2002) 182-188. 
[9] J.H. Yeh, A secure time-bound hierarchical key assignment scheme based on RSA 
public key cryptosystem, Information Processing Letters 105 (4) (2008) 117-120. 
[10] X. Yi and Y. Ye, Security of Tzeng’s time-bound key assignment scheme for 
access control in a hierarchy, IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data 
Engineering 15 (4) (2003) 1054-1055. 
 
 2
換自己新的想法與應用開發經驗，進而找到未來可以一起合作的全球
伙伴。本次會議共有來自超過 40 個國家，約有 560 篇的學術論文，
會議論文的接受率約為 67%。 
會議議程
與經過 
本次參加會議之任務主要發表學術論文，並且進行學術交流。出
席人員為本篇論文所有作者，即長庚大學資管系許建隆副教授、海洋
大學資工系吳宗杉副教授以及法務部調查局林育梨博士，於 100 年 1
月 17 日一同由台北松山機場出發前往會議，由林育梨博士進行論文
發表，許建隆副教授和吳宗杉副教授除了於會場了解其他學者對於本
篇論文之意見外，亦進行國際學術交流。此次會議主要分為六個主
題，包括 e-Commerce、e-Administration、e-Society、e-Technology、
e-Education、ISML (Marketing.Logistics)以及 Poster，本篇論文安排於
e-Technology Program 進行論文發表，e-Technology Program 會議議程
如下： 
e-Technology Program 
Jan. 19  08:40-10:00 (Room 708) 
Exploring the influences of information security message time on password 
management behavior  
Wei-Ze Hong 
Gen-Yih Liao 
Chang Gung University 
Chang Gung University 
Corporate Image Communication Strategies A Case Study of Life Insurance 
Companies in Thailand  
Wanawan Doherty Naresuan University 
A Systematic Weblog Recommender Service for Weblogging System Using 
Social Network Approach 
Wei-Feng Tung Fu-Jen Catholic University 
 4
Satisfaction and Loyalty : A Case Study in Taiwan  
Chen Tung-Liang 
Chang Hao-Feng 
Chung-Hua University 
Chung-Hua University 
Web-based Applications for Virtual Laboratories  
Henriette H. Bier Delft University of Technology 
  
e-Technology Program 
Jan. 19  12:00-13:20 (Room 708) 
Contents Management Mechanism in the Cloud Computing  
Chia-Chen Lin 
Wen-Kuang Chou 
Providence University 
Providence University 
Application  of Case Based Reasoning and Web 2.0 Technology in  the 
Business Recommendation  System ─ A Case Study of Restaurants in Taichung
City  
Min-Hsin  Wu 
Shu-Lin  Wang 
Chuen-Horng  Lin 
National  Taichung  Institute  of 
Technology 
National  Taichung  Institute  of 
Technology 
National  Taichung  Institute  of 
Technology 
An Analysis of Bullwhip Effect, Information Coordination and CRM System  
Ming Ta Shih 
Yung Ta Institute of Technology & 
Commerce 
The Best Mobile Phone Account Billing System Base on Genetic Algorithm 
Tung-Shou Chen 
Jeanne Chen 
Chih-Yu Lin 
Wei-Ling Lin 
National Taichung Institute of Technology 
National Taichung Institute of Technology 
National Taichung Institute of Technology 
Feng Chia University 
Towards semantic-based Cloud Service Discovery using graph matching  
Taekgyeong Han 
Kwang Mong Sim 
Gwangju Institute of Science and 
Technology 
Gwangju Institute of Science and 
Technology 
A Low-power Soft-Asynchronous 8051 Core Implementation  
Yuan-Teng Chang 
Wei-Min Cheng 
Hung-Yue Tsai 
Chang-Jiu Chen 
National Chiao Tung University 
Industrial Technology Research Institute 
National Chiao Tung University  
Yu Da University 
 6
A Study on Using HIT to Redesign a Hospital Referral Process 
In Chang    
Tzer-Chyun Yang    
National Cheng Kung University Medical 
College and Hospital 
National Cheng Kung University 
The research of the performance of the strategy that social affair authority 
applies to the outsourcing of human resource 
SSU CHIU-LAN   Chinese Culture University 
Discovering Inactive Users in Social Network Service 
Chih-Liang Hsu    
Meng-Feng Tsai  
Min-Feng Wang   
Cheng-Hsien Tang 
Bo-Ru Song   
Ching-Hsuan Shen   
Chih-Hong Cheng    
National Central University 
National Central University 
National Central University 
National Central University 
National Central University 
National Central University 
National Central University 
Inventory Management System with RFID Deployment in Malaysian Fast Food 
Restaurant 
Saidatul Rahah Hamidi   
Mudiana Mokhsin @ Misron   
Zatul Amilah Shaffiei  
Syamsulhairi Yaakop  
Universiti Teknologi MARA 
Universiti Teknologi MARA 
Universiti Teknologi MARA 
Universiti Teknologi MARA 
Location-based service in library book searching system 
In-Chu Liao    
Shyhnan Liou    
National Cheng Kung University 
National Cheng Kung University 
  
e-Technology Program  
Jan. 20  10:20-11:40 (Room 608) 
Law Abiding Devices: How Should Robotic Vehicles Navigate in a Human 
World? 
Chen-Kuo Pai    
Ronald Lee   
David Hinds   
Te-Wei Wang  
Asia-Pacific Institute of Creativity 
Florida International University 
Nova Southeastern University 
University of Illinois Springfield 
The Internet-Based Intelligent Rehabilitation Robotics for Home-Nursing 
Chin-Wen Chuang 
Jau-Rong Li    
I-Shou University 
National Kaohsiung Normal University 
ARE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PRACTICES ADOPTED FOR THE RIGHT
REASONS? 
 8
P.-S. You   
Y.-C. Hsieh   
Y.-C Lee   
National Chiayi University 
National Formosa University 
WuFeng University 
  
e-Technology Program 
Jan. 20  13:40-15:00 (Room 608) 
Investigating User’s Acceptance Behavior on NFC Mobile Phone Service by 
UTAUT Model 
Kai-Ying Chen    
Meng-Lin. Chang   
Shih-Min Chen  
National Taipei University of Technology 
National Taipei University of Technology 
National Taipei University of Technology 
Wireless Communication Technology Based Intelligent Elderly Home-care 
Service Platform 
Chyun-Chyi Chen   
Yueh-Min Huang    
National Cheng Kung University 
National Cheng Kung University 
A Study of e-Learning System Evaluation and Suggestion 
Yu-Li Lan 
Chien-Chih Chen 
Yu-Ching Ho 
Tzu-Huan Hsiu 
Tzu Chi College of Technology 
Tzu Chi University 
Tzu Chi College of Technology 
Tzu Chi College of Technology 
Determinants of Individual's Continuance Intention in Facebook Uses 
Heng-Li Yang  
Cheng-Yu Lai   
National Cheng-Chi University 
National Cheng-Chi University 
An Ontology based Knowledge Gap Measuring System: Design and 
Implementation 
Deng-Neng Chen 
Han-Wei Hsiao   
Sheng-Chin Tseng  
National Pingtung University of Science and Technology 
National University of Kaohsiung 
National Pingtung University of Science and 
Technology 
  
e-Technology Program 
Jan. 20  15:20-16:40 (Room 608) 
The Performance Improvement and Evaluation of an Enhanced CPU Scheduler 
in Virtualized Environment 
Chia-Ying Tseng 
Sheng-Chih Lin  
Lee-Chung Chen  
Tatung University 
Tatung University 
Institute for Information Industry 
 10
 
圖3 會場照片(吳宗杉副教授) 
 
  
 圖4 簡報會場 圖5 議程主席(楊慶隆教授) 
 
 
圖 6 Mehdi Asgarkhani 論文發表 
 12
分析、行動學習之技術與模式、RFID 技術、資訊安全技術等。透過
本次會議之機會，與相關學者及廠商進行學術交流與產學交流，希冀
建立未來跨領域合作之管道，提昇個人未來研究能量，以及應用範疇。
攜回資料 
名稱及內
容 
一本論文集、一本 IJBI 國際學術期刊以及會議論文光碟片，可作為
未來研究的參考。 
  
 會議論文集 IJBI 國際學術期刊 
 
 
會議論文光碟片 
 
 2
Improved Time-Bound Hierarchical Key Assignment 
Scheme 
 
Abstract 
In 2004, Chien proposed a time-bound hierarchical key assignment scheme based 
on tamper-resistant devices, which improves the performance in terms of the 
computational efforts and the implementation costs. Santis et al. later demonstrated a 
collusion attack on Chien’s scheme to show that collusive malicious insiders can 
cooperatively derive some encryption keys. Santis et al. further proposed an 
improvement to eliminate the security flaws inherent in Chien’s scheme. This paper 
however will show Santis et al.’s key derivation is incorrect and their claimed security 
requirements cannot be achieved. Finally, we will propose a new key derivation to 
improve Santis et al.’s scheme.  
 
Key words: Access control, cryptography, hierarchical key assignment. 
 
1. Introduction 
In the real world, there are several examples of hierarchies such as military, 
government units, business companies, and etc. All users in such a system form a user 
hierarchy and can be assigned into a number of disjoint sets of security classes, say 
},,,{ 21 nCCCC  , which is partially ordered by a binary relation “ ”. The symbol 
“ ij CC  ” means that the security level of class jC  is lower than or equal to that of 
the class iC . It also implies that the users in the security class iC  can access to the 
information held by those in the class jC , while the opposite is not allowed. For 
instance, a business company can be regarded as a partially ordered hierarchy. All 
users in a business company are assigned to the different security classes according to 
their responsibilities such as top management, divisions, and departments. There are 
several projects in a department. Members of a project team can have access rights to 
their project, but are unable to access information about other projects. A manager of 
a division is authorized to access information in all departments and projects within 
that division. Hence, it is important to determine the access privilege management for 
a partially ordered hierarchy to resolve above access control problems. 
In 1983, Akl and Taylor [1] first proposed a cryptographic key assignment 
scheme in an arbitrary partial order set (POSET) hierarchy in order to solve the access 
 4
scheme and propose an improvement. Finally, we give conclusions in Section 4. 
 
2. Review of Santis et al.’s scheme 
Santis et al.’s scheme [7] consists of the initialization, the user registration, the 
key generation, and the key derivation phases. In the initialization phase, a trusted 
agent (TA) determines all system parameters. In the user registration phase, a user can 
join the system and be assigned a secret key according to his security class. In the key 
generation phase, TA will determine a secret key for encrypting data belonging to 
each class at each time period. In the key derivation phase, the legal user can use his 
own secret key to derive the encrypting key for his class or lower class at some time 
period. Suppose the system has n disjoint classes, },,,{ 21 nCCC  , and the time is 
divided into z  periods, starting at time period 1. Let iID  be the identity of the class 
iC . A user belonging to class iC  from time period 1t  to 2t  is able to derive the 
secret key tjK ,  of the intended class jC  at time period t, where ij CC   and 
21 ttt  . Detailed descriptions of these phases are given below. 
 
Initalization – Initially, the trusted agent TA determines his own secret key X and a 
secure one-way hash function h, and randomly chooses two secret values, a and b, as 
the time-bound seeds for time periods. TA determines a secret key ik  for each class 
iC  (for i = 1, 2, …, n) and a public value  
)||()||||||( jijiij kXhkIDIDXhr            (1) 
for the relationship between iC  and jC  where ij CC   and there is no class lC  
such that ilj CCC  . Note that the symbol “||” denotes the string concatenation 
and “ ” denotes the bit-wise XOR operation. Finally, TA publishes h, iID ’s, and all 
ijr ’s on an authenticated public board. 
 
User registration – When a user joins the system and is assigned to a class iC  in the 
time interval ],[ 21 tt , TA transmits iC ’s secret key ik  to him via a secure channel 
and gives him a tamper-resistant device containing iID , TA’s secret key X, and two 
hash values ( )(),( 21 bhah tzt  ). Note that no one can access the tamper-resistant 
device to obtain the stored information. 
 
 6
According to Santis et al.’s scheme, each class iC  has the secret key ik  and 
the tamper-resistant device after the initialization phase. Consider the situation that a 
user iU  belonging to iC  wants to access the information held by some user jU  
of jC , where ij CC   and there is no class lC  such that ilj CCC  , iU  can 
input public information ),,( jiij IDIDr  and his secret key ik  into his 
tamper-resistant device to obtain )||( jkXh . The device uses )||( jkXh  to derive 
jU ’s secret key tjK ,  at time period t. Finally, iU  can decrypt jU ’s information 
with the derived secret key tjK , . 
Consider the another situation that a user iU  in iC  wants to decrypt the 
encrypted data held by some user in jC  from the path iC  to jC  in a user 
hierarchy, where illlj CCCCC i  12 , iU  has to perform the 
computations iteratively by the following equations: 
)||||||()||(
111 iliill kIDIDXhrkXh           (3) 
,),||||||()||(
121212
llllll kIDIDXhrkXh          (4) 
)||||||()||(
iii ljljlj kIDIDXhrkXh            
From Eq. (3), we can precisely know that )||(
1lkXh  consists of TA’s secret 
key X and 
1lU ’s secret key 1lk . If we want to carry out Eq. (4) to derive the secret 
value )||(
2lkXh , we must first obtain secret key 1lk  from )||( 1lkXh  and then 
feed it to the right-hand side of Eq. (4). Unfortunately, iU  cannot derive the next 
secret value )||||||()||(
121212 llllll kIDIDXhrkXh   since 1lk  is protected by the 
one-way hash function. Based on the intractability of reversing the one-way hash 
function, it can be seen that the user iU  cannot derive the secret keys, 
illl kkk ,,, 21  , from )||(,),||(),||( 21 illl kXhkXhkXh  .  
 8
When a user iU  belonging to class iC  in time interval ],[ 21 tt  wants to 
decrypt the encrypted data of the class jC  at time period t, where ij CC  , there is 
no class lC  such that ilj CCC  , and 21 ttt  . The user iU  inputs the 
public value ijr , the identity iID , and his own secret key ik  to the temper-resistant 
device. The device performs the following steps to derive the decryption key tjK , : 
Step 1. Use the public information ijr  and iC ’s secret key ik  to compute jC ’s 
secret information )||( jkXh  by ))||(||||()||( ijiijj kXhIDIDhrkXh  . 
Step 2. Compute )(aht  and )(bh tz  as 
   ))(()( 11 ahhah tttt   
))(()( 22 bhhbh tztttz    
Step 3. Derive jC ’s secret key tjK ,  by ))()()||((, bhahkXhhK
tzt
jtj
 . 
If there exists some class(es) between iC  and jC , the user iU  can use above 
method to iteratively derive the secret key(s) of lC ’s, where ilj CCC   in time 
interval ],[ 21 tt . All above steps will be performed iteratively by the same way.  
From Eqs. (1*) and (2*), we can see that the value )||( jkXh  can be easily 
derived by ))||(||||()||( ijiijj kXhIDIDhrkXh   with the knowledge of 
)||( ikXh . Hence, incorrectness of Santis et al.’s scheme is corrected in the proposed 
improvement. The security analysis of our proposed scheme is similar to that of Santis 
et al.’s scheme based on the same cryptographic assumptions. The interested readers 
are encouraged to refer [7].  
 
4. Conclusions 
We have demonstrated the incorrectness of Santis et al.’s scheme, which implies 
their scheme cannot achieve the claimed security requirements. That is, Santis et al.’s 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/30
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 適用於網路之數位遺囑系統設計
計畫主持人: 吳宗杉
計畫編號: 99-2628-E-019-007- 學門領域: 資訊安全
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
