行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
總計畫：新世代行動寬頻接取網路技術之研究
子計畫二：新世代行動寬頻異質接取網路移動管理技術之研究 (III)
-- Handoff Overhead Analysis for Applying Hierarchical Mobile
IPv6 in WiMAX Network Architecture
計畫編號：NSC96-2221-E-008-011
國立中央大學 通訊工程學系
計畫主持人： 陳彥文
(本論文已報名參加中華民國資訊學會碩士論文獎)
ABSTRACT
There are two kinds of link layer mobility proposed in WiMAX related documents. One is ASN anchored mobility and
the other is CSN anchored mobility, which is also known as R3-Reanchoring. Compared with link layer mobility, layer
3 mobility (i.e. Mobile IP) assists mobile station with retaining IP layer connectivity in a mobile environment. In order
to improve the performance of handoff, both of the fast mobile IPv6 (FMIPv6) and the hierarchical mobile IPv6
(HMIPv6) were proposed. The FMIPv6 can reduce the handoff latency by performing the duplicated address detection
(DAD) in advance and the HMIPv6 can improve the binding update performance by using the mobility anchor point
(MAP). As HMIPv6 and the above ASN/CSN mobility utilize the similar anchor based approach, this thesis investigates
the cross layer 2/3 scenario and its performance. We analyze and discuss the handoff overhead by deeply examining the
message sequence flows and the TLV of each message for the effects caused by the location arrangement of MAP. In
addition, the application of service area is considered and simulated for the use in practical environment to reduce the
load at ASN-GW and hence to minimize the handoff delay.
Key words: Handoff, Mobility, 802.16, HMIPv6
1. Introduction
The Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX) Forum is formed in 2001 to promote IEEE
802.16 standard and conformance and interoperability of IEEE 802.16 related products. In the technical documents
released by the forum [1][2], it defines a system profile based upon what the WiMAX Forum determines in terms of
service provider and vendor equipment demand.
System profile is defined by the WiMAX forum. Figure 1 depicts Network Reference Model defined in [1]. The
network end is divided into Network Service Provider (NSP) and Network Access Provider (NAP). NSP is a business
entity that provides IP connectivity and WiMAX services. It is composed of Connectivity Service Provider (CSN),
which is a set of functions and is deployed as part of an incumbent of WiMAX NSP. The main functions provided by
CSN are MS IP address, internet access, AAA proxy, policy and admission control based on user profile etc.
target ASN to anchor ASN for avoiding packet loss. At last, an authenticator ASN plays as an entity at the one end of a
point-to-point link that facilitates authentication of the MS that attached to the other end of the link.
In the WiMAX network architecture, there are two types of handoff. One is called ASN anchored mobility. And the
other is called CSN anchored mobility, also known as R3-reanchoring. ASN anchored mobility refers to a set of
procedures associate with the movement between two BSs. The target BS can be in the same ASN or in a different one.
The anchor ASN remains identical during ASN anchored mobility. On the contrary, CSN anchored mobility involves in
anchor ASN relocation, which means anchor ASN is changed after CSN anchored mobility.
ASN anchored mobility takes place when MS moves to a neighboring BS that connects to a different ASN-GW,
which may be within the serving ASN or not. If the target BS belongs to a different ASN, the target ASN-GW will
establish a R4 data path to the anchor ASN so that the MS can avoid data loss and the QoS could also be guaranteed.
During the ASN anchored handoff procedure, the MS does not change its CoA.
For ASN anchored mobility, traffic to MS comes from the anchor ASN. Figure 2 depicts the data flow of ASN
anchored mobility. ASN-1 is the serving and anchor ASN to MS. After handover, the packets from CSN deliver from
ASN-1 to ASN-2 via a R4 data path. The anchor ASN to MS remains the ASN-1.
DataPath
Figure 2 ASN Anchored Mobility
Figure 3 CSN Anchored Mobility
After the ASN anchored mobility execution, MS will update its CoA to the target ASN. The CoA renewal process
Figure 5 Scenario Definition
Figure 5 indicates four mobility scenarios by applying HMIPv6 over WiMAX network architecture. HMIPv6 only
applies to CSN anchored mobility because CSN anchored mobility involving CoA update procedure. We will introduce
the difference of handoff scheme in these scenarios respectively. For the analytical convenience, we divide the handoff
procedure defined in [2] into four phases according to the R1 messages shown in Figure 6 and discussed as follows.
Handoff in
WiMAX Network
CSN Anchored
Mobility
(With R3 Re-anchoring)
ASN Anchored
Mobility
(Without R3 Re-anchoring)
Normal Operation HMIPv6 Enhanced
(MAP in CSN)
HMIPv6 Enhanced
(MAP in ASN-GW)
Normal Operation
Figure 6 Four Phase Divided Handoff Procedure
Phase I: It starts from MOB_MSHO-REQ and ends at MOB_BSHO-RSP. During this phase, the serving-ASN
will send the HO_Req to the candidate target ASNs. Data path pre-registration procedure is used to reserve the
bandwidth and ensure related QoS requirements for the MS. The backend could decide an ASN that MS is going to
handoff to. The decision will include in HO_RSP from serving ASN-GW to serving BS. BS will notify MS in
MOB_BSHO-RSP.
Phase II: It starts from MOB_HO-IND and ends at HO_ACK. MS will indicate which BS is going to handoff to in
S-BS S-ASN-GW T-ASN-GWT-BSMS HACN
Anchor_DPF_Relocate_Req
DP Reg
Mobile IP Procedure
DP De-Reg
Context_Rpt
Anchor_DPF_Relocate_Rsp
Relocate_Cnf_
Context_Rsp
Phase IV
DP Reg
DP Reg
CMAC Key Update
HO_Compelete
HO_Compelete
HO_Compelete
DP DeReg
Network Re-Entry
Phase III
Figure 7 Detailed Phase IV CSN Anchored Mobility
When target ASN-GW receives Anchor_DPF_Relocate_Req, the router advertisement (RA) is sent to MS. MS uses
the prefix contained in RA to generate a CoA. The MS performs duplicated address detection (DAD) for the new CoA.
However, the address collision probability is statistically very small when the layer 3 link model adopted point-to-point
model in [8]. Then the MS sends Binding Update which contains the binding of MS’s HoA and CoA to HA.To avoid
triangle routing problem in the network, MS sends binding update to CN too. After successful R3 re-anchoring, the
target ASN-GW notifies serving ASN-GW by sending Anchor_DPF_Relocate_Rsp. Then the R4 data path used at phase
III for ASN anchored mobility can be released. Context_Rpt containing the new anchor data path function is send by
target ASN-GW to authenticator ASN.
HMIPv6 Enhanced Procedure, MAP in ASN-GW
In this scenario, MAP is located at ASN-GW which is capable of being an access router. MS only has to perform
local binding update when it stays in the same MAP domain. As a result, handoff delay can be reduced. We choose the
anchor ASN as the MAP for simplicity because anchor ASN anchors the data for MS across handover. However, the
original CSN anchored mobility involves in anchor ASN relocation. From the IP layer point of view, the binding update
and local binding update is sent every time the MS moves to a new ASN which does not utilize the advantage of the
HMIPv6. As a result, the original CSN anchored mobility procedure has to be modified. The anchor data path relocation
procedure is deleted. As a result, the traffic from CSN is sent to where the MAP is located, which is also the anchor
ASN. The additional R4 data path for MS must be established to the anchor ASN for tunneling the packets to the ASN
which the MS is connecting to in our modification.
In the modified message flow, we add R4 data path registration procedure and delete the Context_Rpt procedure. It
is because Anchor DP function is always at the anchor ASN across handover.
S-BS S-ASN-GW T-ASN-GWT-BSMS HACN
Anchor_DPF_Relocate_Req
DP Reg
DP De-Reg
Context_Rpt
Anchor_DPF_Relocate_Rsp
Relocate_Cnf_
Context_Rsp
Phase IV
Router Advertisement
Binding Update
CoA
Binding Update
Binding Acknowlegement
Binding Acknowlegement
Figure 11 Phase I, Phase II and Phase III Transmission Bytes
Now we derived the difference between scenarios by analyzing the four phases transaction. Figure 11 shows that in the
first three phases, the transmission overhead are the same in each scenario. The main reason is whether the MS is going
to perform CSN anchored mobility handoff or not, the transaction overhead in phase I, phase II, and phase III procedure
are identical in these scenarios. In phase I and phase II, the signaling messages are mainly in R4 and R6 since the two
phases are handoff preparation for backhaul. Phase III is the network re-entry procedure, so the signaling messages are
focus on R1 which is between BS and MS.
Figure 12 Phase IV Transmission Bytes
Figure 12 expressed the primary transmission overhead during the phase IV. In ASN anchored mobility, it does not
perform phase IV operation. So it can save the signaling overhead and shorten the handoff delay.
In phase IV, the R1 transmission overhead decreases in the scenarios of MAP in ASN-GW and MAP in CSN
because of the enhancement of HMIPv6. Furthermore, we found R4 transmission byte in the scenario of MAP in
ASN-GW is nearly the same compared to the scenario of MAP in CSN because the R4 data established procedure is
added, but the anchor relocation procedure is deleted. At last, the scenario of MAP in CSN has R3 transmission
overhead because the LBU is sent to the CSN, while in the scenario of MAP in ASN-GW, the LBU which increases R4
overhead is send to anchor ASN.
The handoff messages of each scenario are derived in Section 3.2.1. We can found that the handoff related
messages of phase I, phase II and phase III are identical in four scenarios respectively. In other words, the handoff delay
is equal in the first three phases. As a result, the handoff delay is varied by the phase IV messages.
When the service area of a MS is changed, it can adopt MAP in ASN-GW or MAP in CSN modification to
improve the handoff latency. The modification of MAP in CSN may result in longer handoff delay because the LBU
needs R3 routing time, but the phase IV handoff procedure needs no modification and the ASN-GW does not have to
maintain additional R4 data path to anchor ASN. On the other hand, in the scenario of MAP in ASN-GW, the LBU
transferring through R4 data path which is established in phase III needs less handoff delay but consume the resources
of ASN-GW. The modification of MAP in CSN is suggested because the handoff procedure does not to be modified and
the additional R4 data path required is less than MAP in ASN-GW.
3. Simulation Results
In this chapter, we first describe the simulation topology and the related parameters. Then the proposed scheme will be
analyzed from the aspects of handoff delay, data path numbers and handoff dropping rate. Layer 2 and layer 3
simulation topologies are presented respectively. For layer 2 topology, we assume that it has nine ASNs in our
simulation topology. Each ASN consists of only one ASN-GW and one BS to eliminate influence of the handoff
happened between BSs. It is shown as following:
Figure 13 Figure 14
Layer 2 Simulation Topology The Decomposition of An ASN
Table 4 Modulation and BS Coverage Radius
Coverage Radius 1 km 2 km 3 km 5 km
Modulation 64QAM 16QAM QPSK BPSK
The modulation type is related to the distance between the MS and the BS. Table 4 shows associated modulation to
the coverage radius of a BS. Note that the BPSK is only for signaling. The handoff procedure is triggered if an MS
receives the better signal strength. Base on the coverage of the BS, an MS initiates handoff when it crosses the red doted
line. Each BS serve 30 MSs at the same time.
The Layer 3 simulation topology is referred to [10].In Figure 15 we only demonstrate two ASNs that connect to
router 1 for simplicity. The real topology is that nine ASNs all connect to router 1. The link delay time between two
nodes is shown on the links. Generally, the link delay is short in ASN because the packets can be sent through R4 and
R6 data path. In CSN, data is routed to destination in the normal network routing manner. As a result, the delay time is
longer than that in ASN.
ASN 6 ASN 7 ASN 8
ASN 3 ASN 4 ASN 5
ASN 0 ASN 1 ASN 2
Figure 16 Average Handoff Delay Time
The simulation results also prove that the HMIPv6 can shorten the handoff delay effectively. It is achieved by
choosing a MAP and reducing the time for delivering binding update to HA. In the scenario of MAP in CSN, the MAP
lies in CSN which takes longer propagation delay to deliver LBU via R3 interface. So the handoff delay is slightly
higher than MAP in ASN-GW.
Now we divide the network topology into k service area. If MS is going to handoff to the same service area, MS
performs ASN anchored mobility. Figure 17 and Figure 18 depicts that the service area division increases the handoff
delay time. When the service area number increases, the delay increases. The increasing handoff delay is caused by the
higher probability of performing CSN anchored mobility which causes longer handoff delay.
In the scenario of MAP in ASN-GW, the average handoff delay in K=4 scenario is 0.105 ms which is lower than
MAP in ASN-GW scenario with non-service-area modification demonstrated in Figure 16. While in the scenario of
MAP in CSN, propagation delay for delivering LBU via R3 interface causes the average handoff delay longer than
MAP in ASN-GW.
Figure 17 Figure 18
Average Handoff Delay Time of Average Handoff Delay Time of
MAP in ASN-GW Modification MAP in CSN Modification
We describe the ASN has to maintained additional R4 data path for tunneling the packets which will result in extra
burden in both scenario of MAP in ASN-GW and ASN anchored mobility. In this section, we first compare the average
data path per ASN maintained in the non-service-area modification scenarios. Then, we analyze the R4 data path
numbers with service area integration which is varying by the location of MAP. The upper bound of R4 data path
numbers for each ASN is 30 so that the MS will not to be dropped by limited ASN resources when handoff occurs. And
mobility, the scenario of MAP in CSN can save 62% additional resource consumption.
We have learned that additional R4 data path is a burden to ASN-GW in section iii. In the real network architecture,
it is impossible for ASN-GW to maintain unlimited R4 data paths. Therefore, the R4 data path numbers are set to 5 in
the simulation of this section. The MS is dropped when the layer 2 received a better signal strength from target ASN and
the target ASN-GW has no more R4 data path resources. The handoff executes 10000 times and records the drop times.
The dropping rates of two service-area modified scenarios are illustrated in the following figure.
Figure 22 Figure 23
Handoff Dropping Rate Handoff Dropping Rate
in MAP in ASN-GW modification in MAP in CSN modification
The section iii explained that the data path numbers increases in the scenario of MAP in ASN-GW. As a result, the
dropping rate is higher than default ASN anchored mobility with limited R4 data path numbers.
Figure 22 also illustrates the dropping rate is not acceptable in the real implementation considering limited R4 data
path numbers although the average handover delay is the lowest in the scenario of MAP in ASN-GW shown in figure 17.
The lower handoff delay is achieved by delivering the packets through R4 data path instead of R3 routing. Not all of
handover can be accepted in limited resource of ASN-GW. So the dropping probability rises.
It is obvious in figure 23 that handoff dropping rate is effectively reduced in the scenario of MAP in CSN
modification by perform R3-reanchoring when service area changes. If the k group number raises, the probability of
service area relocation raises. It is also indicates that ASN-GW does not have to maintain additional R4 data path for
MS. As a result, the ASN-GW can accept more MSs which perform ASN anchored mobility. The dropping rate is
reduced.
Figure 24 Handoff Dropping Rate in Limited R4 Data Path Numbers
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告
97 年 7 月 10 日
報告人姓名 陳彥文 服務機構
及職稱
國立中央大學通訊系
副教授
時間
會議
地點
May 7~9, 2008
雪梨，澳洲
本會核定
補助文號
NSC96-2221-E-008-011-
會議
名稱
(中文) 20008 年國際平行架構、演算法及網路研討會
(英文) International Symposium on Parallel Architectures, Algorithms, and Networks
發表
論文
題目
(中文) 具少數高電源行動節點感應網路之叢集式資料傳送方法研究
(英文) Study of Cluster-based Data Forwarding in Sensor Networks with
Limited High-Power Mobile Nodes
一、 參加會議經過
20008 年國際平行架構、演算法及網路研討會(ISPAN 2008)是由 IEEE Computer
Society 所支持之重要國際學術研討會。從 1994 年開始舉辦以來至今，已舉辦過
九屆，上一屆是在美國 Las Vegas 舉辦，1997 年也曾在台灣舉辦過。今年輪由澳
洲的雪梨大學負責舉辦，會議期間為 2008 年 5 月 7 日到 5 月 9 日。因配合班機
航次，筆者於 5 月 5 日深夜搭機前往，5 月 6 日抵達雪梨，並於 5 月 10 日返國。
本研討會主要探討主題為平行系統架構、新一代演算法、及通訊網路新技術等領
域；本屆共分以下五個 Tracks：
- Algorithms
- Architectures
- Applications
- Internet Technology and Informatics
- Communications and Networks
本次會議安排了三場 Keynote Speech，其中有一場為國立成功大學黃崇明教授主
講 SIP-based Cross-Domain Proxy Handoff for Mobile Streaming Services。筆者所發
表之論文被安排在 5 月 8 日的 Session 3A (Sensor Networks)，該 Session 的 Chair
為國立澳洲大學的 Prof. Alistar Rendell ，共有四篇論文發表，筆者為第一位發表。
筆者簡報論文時共有兩位學者發問，筆者就問題回答後，Session Chair 又問了一
個不錯的問題，筆者也詳細解說。隨後發表的三篇論文，會場互動還算熱絡，筆
者也曾提出問題發問。經由即時互動，對問題的瞭解與澄清非常有幫助。
附
件
三
三、 考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略)
無
四、 建議
- 參加大型學術會議的好處在其規模的盛大及主題涵蓋的完整性，而小型學術研
討會的特點在主題的深入及和與會學者的深入互動，各有特色。因此，參加此
兩種不同型態之學術研討會，在心態上應做不同的調適，方能從與會過程中有
較具體的收穫。
- 雪梨是藝術之都，筆者利用一天的晚上前往雪梨歌劇院聽一場演奏，可以感受
到歌劇院之規模及設施之完善。
五、 攜回資料名稱及內容
- 本次大會會議論文集
- 近期論文徵稿傳單
六、 其他
本人發表之論文附錄如後
overall power condition of the cluster and the power
condition of the cluster head when comparing to other
cluster heads. And the concept of adjustable supporting
coverage is applied for the decision of the dispatch of
the mobile nodes.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. The
judgment rules of clusters and the dispatch scheme of
high power mobile nodes are proposed in the following
section. In section 3, results of simulations are
illustrated to examine the efficiency of the proposed
scheme. And the results are also compared with that of
LEACH-C scheme. Finally, some conclusions are given
in the last section.
2. Judgment of Cluster Condition and
Movement Strategy
In cluster based architecture, sense nodes are
grouped into clusters for data aggregation and
forwarding. Generally, from the balance point of view,
the number of sense nodes in a cluster is arranged to be
as same as possible and the cluster head is better to be
located at the appropriate position so that sense nodes
of this cluster can forward their data to the head with
the least consumption of transmission power. In [6], the
residual power based weighting scheme was proposed
to decide the ideal position of the cluster head, named
the virtual cluster head (VCH). The location of VCH is
time varying because of the change of residual power
and is calculated as
)/()])(,[(),( )( tall
clusteri
tiiiit PPppyxYXVCH 

(1)
where ),( ii yx is the location of node i of the cluster,
ip and )(tip are the initial power of node i and its
residual power at time t, respectively. And allP and
tP are the summation of the initial power and the
residual power of all nodes in a cluster at time t,
respectively. The actual cluster head is chosen by
considering the location difference between each sense
node and the location of VCH and the residual power
of the sense node. Because the cluster head consumes
more power than that of a pure sense node, the cluster
head can be changed as the varying on the residual
power of each node. The cluster head arrangement
scheme was also proposed in [6]. Based on the
clustering scheme and the decision of the cluster head
proposed in [6], this paper focuses on the movement
management of the high power mobile nodes by
considering the cluster condition through the judgments
of cluster and the management of mobile nodes as the
following..
(A) Judgment of the Cluster Condition
The main task of the judgment of cluster condition is
to analyze the status of residual power of the cluster
when comparing to other clusters. This paper assumes
that the base station knows the location information of
each node and the residual power of each node can also
be forwarded to the base station by the cluster head.
And the judgment is done by the base station to identify
the status of the cluster. There are two judgment rules
adopted for the condition analysis of the cluster. The
first one is to judge whether the power status of the
cluster is balance or not when comparing to other
clusters. And the other is to examine if the residual
power of the cluster head is appropriate to perform its
role.
- Judgment 1: Balance of the cluster
The following two rules are applied to examine the
balance of the cluster. If either of the following two
conditions exists in the cluster, this cluster will be
judged as an unbalance cluster.





energyaverageTotalCj
CCj
energyaverage
nonbalancenum nb
___
_ (2)
where Cj average_energy denotes the average power of
all non-mobile nodes in the cluster j, Cj
num_nonbalance denotes the number of non-mobile
nodes whose residual power is less than Cj
average_energy in the cluster j. The value of Total
average_energy is the average power of all non-mobile
nodes within the network. And the parameter Cnb, Cnb
>=1, is an adjustable threshold. It is noted that, in
accordance with equation (2), a cluster will be regarded
as unbalance if its average power is less than the
average power of the network or the residual power of
most of its sense nodes (determined by Cnb) is less
than the average power of this cluster.
-Judgment 2: Evaluation of the Cluster Head
In addition to the location issue, the criterion of a
node being chosen as the cluster head is that its residual
power is relatively higher than that of other nodes in
the cluster. However, a cluster head may not be
appropriate to act as the cluster node because, though
its residual power is relatively higher than that of other
nodes of its cluster, is much less than that of the other
cluster heads. In this case, the support of high power
mobile node is necessary so that the lifetime of this
cluster can be as longer as the other clusters so as to
extend the overall lifetime of the network. The
following judgment is proposed to examine the power
scheme are compared. The proposed scheme is named
as the base station control mobility (BCM) scheme.
And the BCM scheme can be further subdivided into
unlimited distance and distance aware (BCM-DA)
options. Simulations of three cases with different
number of mobile nodes were performed. As shown in
table 1, the network was divided into 5 clusters in
simulation. The number of mobile nodes in case 2 is set
to be the same as the number of the clusters. And, for
case 1 and 3, the numbers of high power mobile nodes
are set to be less than and more than 5 as 2 and 8,
respectively. For the LEACH-C scheme, the same
number of high power sense nodes (HPSN) were put in
the sensor network and located at the VCH position of
each cluster so that its lifetime can be longer in the
simulations. Regarding to the simulation results, we
observed mainly in two parts: the performance in term
of lifetime and the relationship between the power
consumption of the high power mobile nodes and the
lifetime. The node is treated to be died if the residual
power of the node is 0 joule. The network lifetime is
defined from the beginning of operation to three-
fourths of the nodes (i.e. 150 nodes) die.
The simulation results for the lifetime of the above
three cases are shown in Fig.1, Fig.2 and Fig.3,
respectively. These figures show that the proposed
scheme has longer lifetime than that of LEACH-C as
expected. In addition, the lifetime difference is enlarged
as the number of high power nodes increases. The main
reason is that, when the number of high power mobile
nodes is enough to support all clusters, the forwarding
jobs will be taken by the high power mobile nodes if
the cluster is judged to be unbalance in equations (2)
and (3). In this case, the immobile nodes need not to
forward data and, therefore, can extend the lifetime.
Furthermore, in Fig. 1 and Fig. 2, we find the
performance of BCM is better than BCM-DA in the
fore-stage. However, BCM-DA shows the best
performance in the long run. The reason is that BCM
do not consider the limitation of moving distance so
that the frequent supporting services consumed
speedily the power of mobile nodes in the fore-stage. In
Fig.3, the difference of lifetime between BCM and
BCM-DA is not significant. The inferential reason is
the numbers of high-power mobile nodes is more than
the numbers of cluster so that the support coverage can
be smaller relatively and the moving distances are also
short on supporting.
Fig.1. Comparison of lifetime for case 1
Fig. 2. Comparison of lifetime for case 2
Fig. 3. Comparison of lifetime for case 3
To observe Fig. 4, Fig. 5 and Fig. 6, we find when
the numbers of high-power nodes increase, the average
energy of high power mobile nodes of BCM is getting
down slowly. The reason is that the average support
coverage for each high-power mobile node will be
smaller relatively and the average moving distance for
every round will also be shorter. It also can be found
that the HPSN power consumption of the LEACH-C
scheme decreased very slightly. The reason is that, in
this case, the high-power nodes can only serve its own
cluster. Although the HPSN node is put at the VCH
location of each cluster, the appropriate location of a
cluster (i.e. the VCH location) is time varying as
indicated in equation (1) and the HPSN of LEACH can
not change its location. In this case, the nodes, which
are far away from the HPSN, will exhaust their power
very quickly. On the other hand, the high power mobile
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
1 25 50 75 100 125 150
Number of nodes death
T
im
e
(R
ou
nd
s)
LEACH-C (with HPSN)
BCM
BCM-DA ( T_dis=10)
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
1 25 50 75 100 125 150
Number of nodes death
T
im
e
(R
ou
nd
s)
LEACH-C (with HPSN)
BCM
BCM-DA (T_dis=10)
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
4000
1 25 50 75 100 125 150
Number of nodes death
T
im
e
(R
ou
nd
s)
LEACH-C (with HPSN)
BCM
BCM-DA (T_dis=10)
Fig. 8. Comparison of moving distance in each round
4. Conclusions
In this paper, we consider the wireless sensor
network with limited high power mobile nodes. The
concept of the proposed environment is appropriate for
the increase of lifetime. In accordance with the cluster
based architecture, the judgment rules for the power
condition of the cluster are proposed. And a systematic
method for the supporting of the cluster by mobile
nodes is also proposed in an adaptive manner. The
simulation results show that BCM/BCM-DA
outperforms LEACH-C. In this paper, the arrangements
of the parameters Cnb and Ene are not discussed in
detail. It is suggested that these two parameters can be
dynamically adapted in accordance with the average
residual power of the network so that the efficiency can
be further improved. And this is the research issue in
the future.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This research was supported in part by the grants from
National Science Council (NSC96-2221-E-008-011,
and 96-2627-E-008-001).
References
[1] W. B. Heinzelman, P. Chandrakasan, and H. Balakrishnan,
“An application-specific protocol architecture for wireless
microsensor networks,” IEEE Transactions on Wireless
Communications, vol. 1, no. 4, Oct. 2002, pp. 660-670.
[2] Stephanie Lindsey, Cauligi Raghavendra Krishna M.
Sivalingam “DataGathering Algorithms in Sensor
Networks Using Energy Metrics,“IEEE Trans. on Parallel
and Distrib. Sys., vol. 13, no. 9, Sept. 2002,pp924-35.
[3] S.D. Muruganathan, D.C.F.Ma, R.I Bhasin, and A.O.
Fapojuwo,” A centralized energy-efficient routing protocol
for wireless sensor networks,” IEEE,Communications
Magazine,Volume 43, Issue 3, March 2005, pp.:8–13.
[4] W. R. Heinzelman, A. P. Chandrakasan, and H.
Balakrishnan, “Energy-Efficient Communication Protocol
for Wireless Microsensor Networks, “Proc. 33rd Hawaii
Int’l. Conf. Sys. Sci., Jan. 2000.
[5] S.Ghiasi. “Optimal Energy Aware Clustering in Sensor
Networks,”MDPI Sensors, vol. 2, no. 7, July 2002, pp.
258–69.
[6] T. E. Chang, “AStudy of Cluster-based Sensor Networks
with High-Power Mobile Sensor Nodes”Master Thesis,
National Central University, July 2005.
74.17
24.1
12.32
7.73 5.37
2.22 1.16 0.58 0.41
28.4
12.48
7.48
3.44 1.33 0.62 0.44
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
Number of mobile sensor nodes
A
ve
ra
ge
m
ov
in
g
di
st
an
ce
(m
) BCM-DA (T_dis=10)
BCM
