 1
synthesized.  An increase in methane concentration from 15% to 45% led to a higher yield and a 
greater diameter (ranging from 5 ~ 60 nm) of CNOs. To examine the role of mixed fuel, it was 
observed that as ethylene was removed and only 45% methane and nitrogen were supplied in the 
upper flow, no CNOs could be generated.  While, as methane was increased to 50% or 55%, 
high-yield CNOs were synthesized and the yield increased with the methane concentration.  The 
key parameter affecting the formation of CNOs using counterflow diffusion flames is the oxygen 
concentration, not the mixed fuel. 
Keywords: Flame Synthesis, Carbon Nanotubes, Carbon Nano-Onions, Counterflow Diffusion 
Flame 
1. Introduction 
Carbon nano-onions are quasi-spherical carbon nanoparticles and are made of concentric 
graphitic shells.  They have been observed to either encapsulate metals [1, 2] or to consist only 
of carbon layers [3].  Recently, carbon nano-onions have attracted much attention from the 
research community owing to their outstanding chemical and physical properties.  Currently, 
numerous conventional methods have been employed successfully for their production, such as 
dc arc-discharge [1, 4], high-energy electron irradiation [5], thermal treatment of carbonaceous 
materials [6], high-dose carbon ion implantation into metals [7], and plasma-enhanced chemical 
vapor deposition [8].  However, all these methods for carbon onions synthesis require high 
energy input, and their carbon onions are of low-yield or by-products, leading to the difficulty in 
separating them from the product [9].  Therefore, large-scale applications require a simple, 
continuous and energy-efficient method to synthesize carbon nano-onions.  
A flame can naturally and easily produce an appropriate high-temperature environment with 
high radical concentrations required for the growth of CNTs.  Therefore, flame synthesis shows 
a more promising potential for inexpensive and mass production of high-purity CNTs than other 
synthesis methods.  Recently, great efforts have been devoted to studying synthesis of CNTs in 
flames [10–21].  Different morphologies and structures of CNTs have been grown successfully 
in diffusion flames or premixed flames using various flow configurations (e.g. co-flow, 
counterflow and wall stagnation flow). 
Previous studies [10-21] on flame synthesis of CNTs utilized either diffusion flames or 
premixed flames.  It has been recognized that the formation of CNTs using flame synthesis 
strongly depends on the catalytic metal, hydrocarbon reactants and proper environments. Several 
parameters affecting CNTs growth, such as temperature, strain rate, and equivalence ratio, have 
been studied extensively.  However, little attention has been paid on the effects of mixed fuel 
and oxygen concentrations upon the fabrication of carbon nanostructures, especially carbon 
nano-onions. Therefore, in this proposal we aimed at exploring the influence of mixed fuel and 
oxygen concentrations on the synthesis of carbon nanomaterials using counterflow diffusion 
flames and a catalytic Ni substrate. A large quantity of CNTs or CNOs could be synthesized 
successfully by varying the flame parameters, namely, fuel concentrations and oxygen 
concentrations.  
 3
origin of the cylindrical coordinates (r, z) was located at the center of the lower burner exit. The 
deposition time was 120 sec.  At the sampling position, the gas temperature ranged from about 
500 to 1100 C° , which was determined by a fine wire silica-coated R-type thermocouple 
(Pt/Pt-13% Rh) with 0.05 mm diameter.  Field emission scanning electron microscopy 
(FE-SEM), transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and high resolution transmission electron 
microscopy (HR-TEM) were used to characterize the deposit materials. 
3. Results and discussion 
3.1 Flame synthesis of CNTs 
In this section of discussion, the influences of the CH4 concentrations on the production of 
the carbon nanotubes were investigated.  The CH4 concentration ( MΩ ) ranged from 15% to 45%, 
while C2H4 concentration ( EΩ ) and oxygen concentration ( OΩ ) were fixed at 5% and 21%, 
respectively.  Fig. 2 demonstrates the temperature profiles and CNTs yield for different axial 
positions z at the flow centerline, r=0.  In Fig. 2, the positions of the upper edge of blue flame 
front and the soot layer are indicated by dashed lines for each methane concentration.  
As shown in Fig. 2, the temperature decreased as the distance from the flame front increased.  
It was observed that the diffusion flame without soot layer (for MΩ =15%, 20%) was composed of 
a blue-violet fuzzy zone on the oxidizer side and a bright green-blue zone on the fuel side.  The 
blue flame front moved towards the lower burner with a thicker soot layer as methane 
concentration ( MΩ ) was raised.  The z-position where CNTs could be observed is indicated in the 
sub-figure by a shaded band.  Darker shade indicates higher yield.  
As can be seen, only with a moderate CH4 concentration, namely MΩ = 25 %, could CNTs 
with high density be produced at z = 12 ~ 13 mm, where the gas temperature was in the range of 
800 ~ 1000 C° .  At a low CH4 concentration of 15 %, no CNTs was observed regardless of 
variations in sampling position, but MΩ = 20 % produced few CNTs at z = 12.5 ~ 13.5 mm 
where the gas temperature was in the range of 600 ~ 800 C° .  For a higher CH4 concentrations 
of 35 %, relatively short and low-yield CNTs appeared at z = 12.5 mm, where the gas 
temperature was about 800 C° .  MΩ ≥  45 % not shown in Fig. 2 yielded amorphous carbon 
instead of carbon nanotubes.  These features demonstrated that the formation of carbon 
nanotubes was sensitive to the methane concentration in the upper burner and sampling position. 
It was believed that the synthesis of CNTs could only be done within a limited region in a flame 
with appropriate temperature and carbon concentration.  Apparently, the variation of methane 
concentrations significantly affected the carbon concentration and flame temperature, and that the 
gas pressure proportional to flow rate on the Ni mesh wires could strongly influence the gas 
adsorption amount on the metal surface to aggravate the negative effects of concentration and 
temperature [23].  It was reported that CVD synthesis usually operated at the temperature range 
between 700 and 1050 C°  [12].  Surprisingly, there was a nearly identical temperature region for 
both CVD and the present counterflow diffusion flame (800 ~ 1000 C° ) within which CNTs could 
be synthesized.  This interesting characteristic was similar to the common region between 750 and 
800 C°  reported by Li et al. [24]. 
Typical SEM and TEM images of CNTs synthesized on the catalytic metal substrates for 120 
sec of deposition are shown in Fig. 3.  Fig. 3a shows the typical morphologies of curved and 
 5
entangled multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) synthesized on the fuel side near the flame 
surface (z = 12 ~ 13 mm).  As observed, the average diameter of MWCNTs was around 20 ~ 25 
nm, which was smaller than that (80 nm) yielded in counterflow flames [24] and those (60 nm) 
obtained in co-flow flames [10, 11].  Two different types of CNTs were found to co-exist in the 
deposit materials on the Ni substrate under this condition; Fig. 3b shows the HR-TEM image of a 
CNT with straight and tubular structure having a diameter of about 20 nm, while Fig. 3c 
demonstrates a CNT with bamboo-like structure having a diameter of about 25 nm.  Some 
researchers suggested that spherical catalyst particles could catalyze the growth of straight and 
tubular CNTs without any internal compartment cap, while non-spherical catalyst particles tended 
to form bamboo-like CNTs with internal compartment cap [13, 25].  In addition, a CNT with 
helically coiled tubular structure having a diameter of about 25 nm are shown in the inset (a 
magnified SEM image) of Fig. 3a (indicated by the arrow).  The helically coiled tubular CNTs 
have been reported to form only under special conditions in CVD [26, 27] and to grow only in a 
small flame zone for a limited window of fuel flow rates [28].  A favorable flame environment 
for the formation of coiled CNTs greatly depends on three factors: (1) local gas phase chemistry, 
(2) surface chemistry, and (3) residence time [28].  
3.2 Flame synthesis of carbon nano-onions 
In order to examine the influence of oxygen concentration on flame synthesis of 
nano-structures, the oxygen concentration in the lower burner was increased to OΩ  = 50%, while, 
the ethylene concentration in the upper flow was fixed at EΩ  = 5% and the methane concentration 
MΩ  was varied from 15% to 45% as before.  Fig. 4 depicts the same trend as found in Fig. 3 that 
the blue flame moved towards lower burner with a thicker soot layer as methane concentration 
( MΩ ) was raised.  It is of interest to note that for fixed values of V, OΩ , and EΩ , as  MΩ  
increased gradually, the soot layer began to grow on the fuel side of the diffusion flame.  Also, as 
MΩ  increased, the flame became much thicker and appeared yellowish in color with a thin blue 
layer on the fuel side.  It is noteworthy that as the oxygen concentration in the lower flow was 
raised to OΩ  = 50%, only CNOs were observed, compared to only CNTs synthesized at OΩ  = 
21% (air) as described above in Fig. 2.  This revealed that oxygen concentration was an important 
parameter which dominated morphologies and structures of carbon nanomaterials. 
Again in Fig. 4, a darker band above the temperature distribution curve corresponds to where 
a higher yield of CNOs could be observed.  Fig. 4 shows that for each methane concentration, the 
suitable region for CNOs synthesis was located at the fuel side near the soot layer where the gas 
temperature was in the range between 600 and 800 C° .  Especially, the highest yield for each 
methane concentration occurred at about 800 C° . 
Based on SEM observations, carbon onions were not observed at MΩ =15%, as shown in Fig. 
5a.  However, the HR-TEM images indicate that a few nano-onions were observed, which had 
several concentric carbon layers with sizes ranging from 5 ~ 10 nm.  Fig. 5e demonstrates a 
typical HR-TEM image of a carbon nano-onion with a size of about 5 nm.  The carbon 
nano-onion had a hollow core wrapped layer by layer with well-crystallized graphitic sheets (equal 
to 7 layers).  As can be seen, the hollow core of the onion was very small (less than 1 nm) and 
slightly irregular.  The interlayer spacing of the carbon onion was about 0.34 nm (corresponding to 
the d-spacing of [0, 0, 2]) calculated using Digital Micrograph Software and the HR-TEM. 
 7
 
Fig. 5. SEM images of CNOs: (a) MΩ =15%, (b) MΩ =25%, (c) MΩ =35%, and (d) MΩ =45%; 
HR-TEM images of CNOs: (e) MΩ =15%, (f) MΩ =25%, (g) MΩ =35%, and (h) MΩ =45%. 
 
of the onions formed by diffusion flame method by varying some experimental parameters.  In this 
study, the significant parameters that dominated CNOs synthesis were the fuel concentration in the 
upper flow and the oxygen concentration in the lower flow.  Indeed, CNOs were not observed for 
various MΩ  (15%, 25%, 35%, and 45%) when OΩ =21% (i.e. air), as shown in Figs. 2 and 3.  
This feature indicates that there is a threshold oxygen concentration OΩ  for CNOs synthesis, and 
that the CNO diameter is strongly influenced by the methane concentration MΩ .   
    In order to further examine the influence of mixed fuel on CNOs synthesis, we removed the 
supply of ethylene and only provided methane and nitrogen in the upper flow with a fixed 
injection velocity (V=15 cm/sec).  For the synthesis of carbon nanomaterials, the substrate was 
positioned at the axisymmetric axis (r = 0) on the fuel side (1 mm above the soot layer).  Fig. 6a 
 9
from 15% to 45% in the upper flow, and air was supplied in the lower flow, only with a 
moderate CH4 concentration (25 %) could CNTs with high density be produced at the axial 
positions z = 12 ~ 13 mm.  Under this condition, curved and entangled tubular multi-walled 
CNTs were harvested, which had both typical straight tubular and bamboo-like structures.  
Besides curved CNTs, helically coiled tubular CNTs were also synthesized. 
(2) When the oxygen concentration in the lower flow was raised to 50% and the other operating 
parameters were kept the same as those for CNTs synthesis ( EΩ  = 5% and MΩ =15 ~ 45%), 
it was observed that only CNOs were synthesized.  Note that an increase in methane 
concentration resulted in a higher yield of CNOs.  Particularly, when methane concentration 
was equal to 35% or 45%, a very high yield of CNOs could be obtained.  It is significant to 
emphasize that the average diameters of the onions were increased ranging from 5 nm ~ 60 nm 
when methane concentration was increased from 15% to 45%.  This finding was unique in 
that it opened the possibility to control the yield and size of the onions formed by O2-enriched 
C2H4/CH4 counterflow diffusion flame method by varying the methane concentration. 
(3) As we removed the supply of ethylene and only provided methane and nitrogen in the upper 
flow (i.e. 45% methane and 0% ethylene) to examine the role of mixed fuel, no CNOs could 
be observed.  However, as methane concentration was increased to higher values (50% and 
55%) and the ethylene was again kept at 0%, high-yield CNOs could also be observed.  
Additionally, it was found that the yield of CNOs was increased with the increase of methane 
concentration from 50% to 55%. 
(4) It has been verified that the key parameter affecting the formation and yield of CNOs is 
oxygen concentration using O2-enriched C2H4/CH4 counterflow diffusion flame method.  
Also, it has been confirmed that the methane concentration strongly influenced the diameters 
of CNOs. 
5. 計畫成果自評 
(1)本計畫提出之常壓層流對沖流擴散火焰，由於軸向速度沿徑向均勻分布的流場特性，不
但可提供較大面積和較佳的沉積物樣本收集方式，而且穩態流場分布的特性亦有助於奈
米碳簇的成長和排列，以及結果的闡述分析。此外，以對沖流擴散火焰來製備奈米碳簇
具有無比強大的潛力，因其可以提供高溫熱源和高濃度不飽和活性自由基。特別是利用
降低火焰拉伸率，更能增加燃料和氧在高溫燃燒場的滯留時間，對於燃料和氧的熱解離
而形成不飽和活性自由基，進而催化形成奈米碳簇將有相當大的助益。有系統的分析混
合燃料比例和滯留時間的概念和方法截至目前為止尚未有國內外學者著墨。因此，本研
究主題具有高度前瞻性、原創性和重要性。 
(2)本研究計畫成果目前已發表兩篇國內研討會論文(中華民國燃燒學會第十八屆學術研討
和中國機械工程學會第二十四屆全國學術研討會)和一篇國外研討會論文(ISTP-18)，並
已投稿一篇期刊論文至國際著名期刊 Carbon (SCI; Impact Factor: 4.260)，revised paper 目
前正在審稿中，研究成果卓著。 
(3)本計畫提出之常壓層流對沖流擴散火焰可分析不同燃料種類(C-H 比)、混合燃料、燃料
稀釋、富氧、出口速度和拉伸率此六項重要火焰參數對奈米碳簇生成和成長的機制及其
 11
[11] Yuan L, Saito K, Hu W, Chen Z.  Ethylene flame synthesis of well aligned multi-walled 
carbon nanotubes.  Chem Phys Lett 2001;346:23–5. 
[12] Yuan L, Li TX, Saito K.  Growth mechanism of carbon nanotubes in methane diffusion 
flames.  Carbon 2003;41:1889-96. 
[13] Merchan-Merchan W, Saveliev A, Kennedy LA, Fridman A.  Formation of carbon 
nanotubes in counter-flow, oxy-methane diffusion flames without catalyst.  Chem Phys 
Lett 2002;354:20–4. 
[14] Saveliev A, Merchan-Merchan W, Kennedy LA.  Metal catalyzed synthesis of carbon 
nanotubes in an opposed flow methane oxygen flame.  Combust Flame 2003;135:27–33. 
[15] Merchan-Merchan W, Saveliev AV, Kennedy LA.  High-rate flame synthesis of 
vertically aligned carbon nanotubes using electric field control.  Carbon 2004; 
42:599–608. 
[16] Vander Wal RL. Flame synthesis of substrate-supported metal catalyzed carbon nanotubes.  
Chem Phys Lett 2000;324:217–23. 
[17] Vander Wal RL, Ticich TM.  Substrate–support interactions in metal-catalyzed carbon 
nanofiber growth.  Chem Phys Lett 2001;336:24–32. 
[18] Vander Wal RL, Hall LJ, Berger GM.  Optimization of flame synthesis for carbon 
nanotubes using supported catalyst.  J Phys Chem 2002;B106:13122–32. 
[19] Vander Wal RL. Flame synthesis of substrate-supported metal-catalyzed carbon nanotubes.  
Chem Phys Lett 2000; 323:217–223. 
[20] Vander Wal RL.  Fe-catalyzed single-walled carbon nanotube synthesis within a flame 
environment.  Combust Flame 2002;130:37–47. 
[21] Height MJ, Howard JB, Tester JW.  Flame synthesis of single-walled carbon nanotubes.  
Proc Combust Inst 2005; 30:2537–43. 
[22] Hou SS, Yang SS, Chen SJ, Lin TH.  Interactions for flames in a coaxial flow with a 
stagnation point flow.  Combust Flame 2003;132:58–72. 
[23] Zhou Q, Li C, Gu F, Du HL.  Flame synthesis of carbon nanotubes with high density on 
stainless steel mesh. J Alloys Compd 2007; in press. doi:10.1016/j.jallcom.2007.09.021. 
[24] Li TX, Zhang HG, Wang FJ, Chen Z, Saito K.  Synthesis of carbon nanotubes on 
Ni-alloy and Si-substrates using counterflow methane-air diffusion flames.  Proc 
Combust Inst 2007; 31:1849–56. 
[25] Wang X, Hu Y, Liu C, Long Y, Xu S, Zhu D, et al.  Bamboo-like carbon nanotubes 
produced by pyrolysis of iron (II) phthalocyanine.  Carbon 2001;39:1533-6. 
[26] Amelinckx S, Zhang XB, Bernaerts D, Zhang XF, Ivanov V, Nagy JB.  A formation 
mechanism for catalytically grown helixshaped graphite nanotubes. Science 
1994;265:635–7. 
[27] Motojima S, Hasegawa I, Kagiya S, Andoh K, Iwanaga H.  Vapor phase preparation of 
micro-coiled carbon fibers by metal powder catalyzed pyrolysis of acetylene containing a 
small amount of phosphorus impurity.  Carbon 1995;33:1167–73. 
[28] Choudhuri A, Camacho J, Chessa J.  Flame synthesis of coiled carbon nanotubes.  
Fullerenes, Nanotubes, and Carbon nanostructures 2006;14:93-100. 
[29] Liu TC, Li YY.  Synthesis of carbon nanocapsules and carbon nanotubes by an acetylene 
flame method.  Carbon 2006;44:2045-50. 
表 Y04 
1. 8 月 27 日 上 午 專 題 演 講 ： ISTP18-013-CHARACTERIZATION OF INTERFACIAL 
STRUCTURE IN TWO-PHASE FLOW BY OBJECTIVE AND QUANTITATIVE METHODS 
(by Prof. Mamoru Ishii/Thermal-Hydraulics and Reactor Safety Laboratory, School of Nuclear 
Engineering Purdue University, USA) 
ABSTRACT-This paper presents new experimental approaches incharacterizing interfacial 
structures in gas-liquid twophase flow. For the experiments, two objective approaches are 
developed to identify flow regimes and to obtain local interfacial structure data. First, a global 
measurement technique using a non-intrusive ring-type impedance void-meter and a 
self-organizing neural network is presented to identify the “one-dimensional” flow regimes. In the 
application of this measurement technique, two methods are discussed, namely, one based on the 
probability density function of the impedance probe measurement (PDF input method) and the 
other based on the sorted impedance signals, which is essentially the cumulative probability 
distribution function of the impedance signals (instantaneous direct signal input method). In 
addition, a double-sensor conductivity probe can also be used to obtain “local” flow regimes by 
using the instantaneous direct signal input method with the bubble chord length information. 
Furthermore, a conductivity probe with multiple doublesensor heads is used to obtain 
“two-dimensional” flow regimes across the flow channel. Secondly, a state-ofthe-art four-sensor 
conductivity probe technique has been used to obtain detailed local interfacial structure information 
which includes local void fraction, bubble velocity interfacial area concentration and bubble 
diameter. 
2. 8月28日上午專題演講：ISTP18-409-THERMAL ANALYSIS AND CONTROL OF ON-CHIP 
HOT SPOTS IN NANOELECTRONIC DEVICES (by Prof. Avram Bar-Cohen/Department of 
Mechanical Engineering University of Maryland, USA) 
ABSTRACT- Roadmap projections for the electronic industry suggest that maximum chip power 
dissipation will exceed 300W and average chip heat fluxes exceed 150W/cm2 within the next few 
years. Moreover, increasing performance demands have resulted in greater non-uniformity of 
on-chip power dissipation, creating localized, sub-millimeter hot spots with heat fluxes in excess of 
1kW/cm2, whose elevated temperatures can degrade performance and reliability. It is unlikely that 
conventional thermal packaging technology, developed to provide uniform chip cooling, could be 
extended to deal with such heat flux spikes without considerable loss in energy and volumetric 
efficiency. Rather, new and novel cooling techniques, with the ability to selectively cool 
sub-millimeter, high heat flux zones while providing effective global cooling for high performance 
chips are needed. This lecture will explore the on-chip hot spot thermal control effectiveness of 
several promising approaches, including the application of miniaturized silicon and Bi2Te3 
thermoelectric coolers, anisotropic spreaders/TIMs, and direct cooling with dielectric liquids 
through thin film evaporation or pool boiling. The thermophysical phenomena underpinning each 
technique, the governing thermal transport equations, and results obtained at the University of 
Maryland’s TherPES Laboratory will be described. The lecture will close with an assessment of the 
relative merits of these approaches and the future research challenges imposed by the need for hot 
spot remediation. 
 
表 Y04 
外同好。八月二十八日上午聆聽感興趣的 Keynote Lectures 外，並參加於當天下午的 Technical 
Tour。八月二十九日上午本人發表 A Theoretical Study on a Conical Flame in an Impinging Jet 
Flow 和 Extinction and Soot Formation of Counterflow Diffusion Flames 兩篇論文，會中有多位
與會學者對此兩題目甚感興趣，討論亦相當熱烈。最後一天參加完 Keynote Lectures 後，即
搭 KTX 趕至首爾，搭機回國，結束短暫的五天會議行程。  
 
 
    
          圖 1. ISTP-18 會場前留影。      圖 2. 與曾培元教授賢伉儷(中及右二)、 
                                         宋齊有教授(左二)及邱聖麟博士(左一)  
                                         於會場前留影。                                                                   
二、與會心得 
 
此次大會所發表的論文領域涵蓋甚廣，且多屬近期各國學者之一時之選。對於最近發展
之理論及實驗、或技術的了解與認識助益良多，而與各國學者的研究交流、經驗分享更是寶
貴的收穫。基本上，來自台灣的學生因為有充分的準備，口頭報告皆算流利順暢，但是討論
部份卻常有聽不懂或誤會問題內容的發生。這些難題有待更多的聽力訓練和即席回答經驗，
鼓勵學生多參與國際研討會發表論文和參與實質討論，是值得多加推動。 
台灣參加此次 ISTP-18 國際會議，除了本研究團隊外，還有成大航太系王覺寬教授、苗
君易教授、台科大黃榮芳教授、陳明志教授，中山大學游明輝教授，中正理工學院的曾培元
教授，以及逢甲大學宋齊有教授等多人，聲勢十分浩大。整體而言，台灣於 ISTP-18 國際會
議的研究成果表現相當顯眼，獲得各國與會人員的重視和肯定。 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
 
除了國際會議例行的學術活動外，大會並安排韓國國家博物館(Gongju National Museumc
和 Buyeo National Museum)的歷史文化饗宴，對於韓國豐富質樸的人文風情和多采多姿的藝
術文化有更進一步的了解與認識，特別是傳統服飾和歷史文化等。 
 
四、建議 
 
    建議國內學者多參與國際性學術會議，除了增廣學術見聞外，亦能與國外學者進行多方
面的交流，有助於提升國內的研究水準與論文品質。 
The Eighteenth International Symposium on Transport Phenomena, 
 27-30 August, 2007, Daejeon, KOREA 
A THEORETICAL STUDY ON A CONICAL FLAME IN AN IMPINGING JET FLOW 
 
Shuhn-Shyurng Hou1, Wei-Dong Hsieh2, Ta-Hui Lin3 
1 Department of Mechanical Engineering/Clean Energy Center, Kun Shan University 
Tainan Hsien, Taiwan, ROC  
2 Architecture and Building Research Institute, Ministry of the Interior 
Tainan Hsien, Taiwan, ROC 
3 Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Cheng Kung University 
  Tainan City, Taiwan, ROC 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
In this study, we aim at studying the structure of a 
negatively-stretched conical methane/air flame in a 
positively-stretched flow under the influence of 
preferential diffusion, curvature stretch, flow stretch 
and external heat loss by using large activation 
energy asymptotics. Parameters for open and closed 
flame tips in the analysis consist of the curvature 
stretch and aerodynamic straining coupled with 
Lewis number (Le). The curvature stretch, which is 
negative stretch or compression, strengthens and 
weakens the burning intensity of the Le>1 and Le<1 
Bunsen flame, respectively. The opposite holds for 
aerodynamic straining, which is positive stretch. 
Additionally, Irrespective of Le>1 or Le<1, the 
external heat loss weakens the burning intensity and 
has a significant influence on the structure of Bunsen 
flame tips. For rich methane/air Bunsen flames 
(Le>1), closed tip solutions are obtained. The 
burning intensity increases towards the flame tip, 
which has the largest curvature. Furthermore, it is 
enhanced with increasing curvature stretch or 
decreasing flow stretch. Conversely, the curvature 
stretch weakens the burning intensity of the lean 
methane/air Bunsen flames (Le<1) and eventually 
leads to tip opening, i.e., flame extinction. The 
burning intensity is further reduced with increasing 
curvature stretch or external heat loss or with 
decreasing flow stretch. Note that the opening 
becomes wider for the open-tip Bunsen flames when 
the external heat loss or flow stretch is decreased. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Flame stretch is a very important factor affecting 
combustion phenomena. Flames can suffer either 
positive or negative stretch depending on the nature 
of the flow and the flame. The flow field of a jet is 
characterized by a potential core. In such a flow field, 
a conical flame (i.e. Bunsen flame) occurs usually, 
which lies inside the potential core. As a result of the 
relatively small stretch caused by flow nonuniformity, 
Bunsen flames are negatively strained due to the 
curvature effect [1-4]. 
Contrary to conical Bunsen flames, the flames 
established in a divergent stagnation flow or 
counterflow are usually planar at small burner-to-
plate distances. Therefore, the stretch resulting from 
the flame curvature is negligible compared with the 
stretch induced by hydrodynamic straining [5-10]. In 
other words, the planar stagnation flow flame 
experiences positive hydrodynamic stretch.  
Traditionally, researches deal with positive stretch 
in the (divergent) stagnation flow and negative 
stretch along the Bunsen flame. Extensive 
theoretical and experimental studies [1-10] have 
shown that stretch effects become especially 
prominent in the presence of preferential diffusion, 
when the mixture has nonunity Lewis number. For 
positively-stretched flames in the stagnation-point 
flow, an increase in stretch will weaken/extinguish a 
Le>1 flame but intensify a Le<1 flame [1-4]. The 
opposite holds for the negatively- stretched Bunsen 
flame tip [5-10].  
As described above, much attention has been 
paid on the characteristics of conical flames in a jet 
flow or planar flames in a stagnation-point flow (or 
counterflow). However, only a very limited amount of 
research has been devoted to studying the behavior 
of a conical Bunsen flame established in a 
stagnation flow, which is greatly affected by the 
combined effects of the curvature stretch and the 
aerodynamic straining.  
Theoretical analysis [11, 12] revealed that there is 
not only planar flame in the stagnation-point flow but 
other types of flame shape, such as column-shaped 
flame, curved flame, Bunsen flame and even 
inverted Bunsen flame. In our previous study [13], it 
was also found that in addition to planar flame, the 
hat-shaped flame and the trumpet-shaped flame 
occurred in the stagnation-point coaxial flow. 
Vagelopoulos and Egolfopoulos [14] used the 
stagnation flow configuration and large separation 
distances (H) to build a planar flame for measuring 
the unstretched flame speed. They found that the 
planar positively-stretched flame may undergo a 
transition to a negatively-stretched Bunsen flame 
through flow rate reduction at relatively large values 
of H/D. Where D denotes the burner diameter. 
In our recent study [15], the characteristics of 
laminar conical premixed flames in an impinging jet 
flow was experimentally and numerically investigated. 
The calculation of stretch and measurement of flame 
temperature for the low inlet velocity, 0.8 m/s, 
showed that the stretch of a conical flame 
established in a stagnation flow is negative 
(dominated by the flame curvature). However, it was 
emphasized that at high velocity, e.g. 1.6 m/s, a 
negatively-stretched flame tip can suffer positive flow 
The Eighteenth International Symposium on Transport Phenomena, 
 27-30 August, 2007, Daejeon, KOREA 
in which +1(0 )T  denotes the first-order downstream 
temperature near the flame. Adding Eq. (3) or (4) to 
Eq. (5) and then integrating from ξ = −∞  to ξ += 0  
yields 
( ) ( ) ( )ρ+ ∂  += − Θ ∂  & &
2
0 0 0 0
1
0 0
110
T Rv GT
m R R m
( )( ) ( )+− − 
− + − 
 & &
2
00 0
2
0 0
11 11
2
df k
k
G QT LedG G
m dR R Le m
 (9)  
in which  
( )
( )
kLe
k i
k i
SQ Y dS
SQY
1 1
c ,
0 ,
1
1
−
−Θ =
+∫
                                    (10) 
represents the Lewis number effect.  
     Combining Eqs. (8) and (9) by eliminating +1(0 )T , 
and introducing new variables ψ = 0G , and 
{ }τ = & 02 / [( -1)( -1)]k f kLe m T Le R , then we have the final 
results as follows 
( )
( ) ( )
f f
f wd k
ak i
d
T Td T Y Le
d m TQ Y
QT
K
m m
2
0 c ,
22
0 0
0 0
1ln
11
2 2
ψψ ψ
τ τ
ψρ ψ
  + 
 + = Λ   
     
+ +
− Θ − 
 
&
& &
 (11)        
 where ( )∂= ∂ 0
1K Rv
R R
 designates the flow stretch. 
In Eq. (11), ψ  denotes the slope of the surface of 
the flame front and τ  indicates the combined effects 
of Lewis number and radial position (curvature 
stretch). On the right hand side of Eq. (11), therefore, 
the first term shows the coupled effects of Lewis 
number and curvature stretch, the second term 
indicates the combined effect of flow stretch ( K ) and 
Lewis number, and the third term represents the 
effect of downstream heat loss. 
 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
The structure of a negatively-stretched conical 
methane/air flame tip in a positively-stretched flow 
under the influence of preferential diffusion, 
curvature stretch, flow stretch and external heat loss 
is investigated herein. Table 1 shows all cases 
investigated in the study. Sample calculations are 
conducted using Eq. (11). 
      In the analysis, curvature stretch is manifested 
through curvature along the flame surface of Bunsen 
flame, attaining maximum at the tip. Lewis number 
designates the ratio of thermal-to-mass diffusivities 
of the deficient reactant in the mixture. K  is flow 
stretch resulting from divergent stagnation flow, and 
dQ  represents the magnitude of downstream heat 
loss, while the open or closed condition of the flame 
depends on curvature stretch coupled with Lewis 
number. Our study is conducted for methane/air 
flame. Methanol-air premixtures of G 0.8φ =  and 
G 1.4φ = , corresponding to Le = 0.985 and 1.033, 
respectively, are adopted to illustrate the influence of 
nonunity Lewis number.  
It is apparent from the definition of τ  that τ > 0  
and τ < 0  correspond to the problems of > 1Le  and 
< 1Le , respectively. For the case of  K =0 and dQ =0 
shown in Fig. 2, it is expected as in Refs. [5, 16] that 
in the absence of flow stretch and external heat loss, 
for τ < 0  ( < 1Le ), a single integral curve extends 
from the negative asymptotic value at τ = −∞ , then 
decreases monotonically in approaching the 
symmetry axis and eventually reaches the value 
ψ = −∞  at τ = 0 . Thus, as the tip is approached 
(τ = 0 ), the front surface is bent out in such a way 
that the propagation velocity relative to the oncoming 
gas falls to zero, in other words, a normal Bunsen 
flame with an open tip for < 1Le  is observed (curve 
A). For τ > 0  ( > 1Le ), a whole cluster of integral 
curves emanates from the negative asymptotic value 
at τ = +∞ . Within this family, however, there is only 
one curve corresponding to a closed-tip normal 
Bunsen cone for which ψ =(0) 0  (curve B). 
Furthermore, it is of interest to note that the integral 
curves of Eq. (11), for which ψ  approaches positive 
asymptotic value at τ = ±∞  may have an open-tip 
inverted Bunsen cone (curve C) or a continuous 
inverted Bunsen cone (curve D) depending on 
whether the mixture Lewis number is greater or less 
than unity [5, 16]. 
 
Lean Methane/Air Flames with Le<1 
Fig. 3 shows the influence of flow stretch ( K ) on 
the structure of Bunsen flame tip for lean methane/ 
air flames ( G 0.8φ =  and Le =  0.985). It is well known 
that negative curvature stretch weakens the burning 
intensity of the < 1Le  flame. Therefore, the burning 
intensity decreases towards the flame tip, which has 
the largest curvature. Without external heat loss 
( dQ =0) and flow stretch ( K =0), for given & 0m =1.2, as 
the tip is approached ( τ = 0 ), the value of ψ  
decreases abruptly to −∞  corresponding to the 
phenomenon of tip opening. Note that burning 
intensity the < 1Le  flame is increased with K  
because of additional heat gain associated with 
positive flow stretch. Accordingly, for fixed & 0m =1.2 
and dQ =0 (i.e. adiabatic case), the strengthened 
flame experiencing a larger amount of aerodynamic 
straining ( K ) moves farther upstream such that the 
slope ( ψ ) of the surface of the flame front is 
increased at the same radial position. It is interesting  
The Eighteenth International Symposium on Transport Phenomena, 
 27-30 August, 2007, Daejeon, KOREA 
9. C. K. Law, S. Ishizuka and P. Cho, On the 
Opening of Premixed Bunsen Flame Tips, 
Combust. Sci. Tech. 28, 89-96 (1982). 
10. M. Mizomoto, Y. Asaka, S. Ikai, C. K. Law, S. 
Ishizuka and P. Cho, Effects of Preferential 
Diffusion on the Burning Intensity of Curved 
Flames, Proc. Combust. Instit. 20, 1933-1939 
(1984). 
11. W.J. Sheu and G.I. Sivashinsky, Nonplanar 
Flame Configurations in Stagnation Point Flow, 
Combust. Flame 84, 221-224 (1991). 
12. C.J. Sung, Y.Y.D. Trujillo and C.K. Law, On Non-
Huygens Flame Configuration in Stagnation 
Flow, Combust. Flame 103, 247–251 (1995). 
13. S.S. Hou, S.S. Yang, S.J., Chen and T.H. Lin,  
Interactions for Flames in a Coaxial Flow with a 
Stagnation Point Flow, Combust. Flame 132, 58-
72 (2003). 
14. C.M. Vagelopoulos and F.N. Egolfopoulos, 
Direct Experimental Determination of Laminar 
Flame Speeds, Proc. Combust. Instit. 27, 513-
519 (1998). 
15. W. D. Hsieh, S. S. Hou and T. H. Lin, Methane 
Flames in a Jet Impinging onto a Wall, Proc. 
Combust. Instit. 30, 267-276 (2004). 
16. J. C. Lin, S. S. Hou and T. H. Lin, A Theoretical 
Study on Bunsen Spray Flames, Int. J. Heat 
Mass Transfer 46, 963-971 (2003). 
 
 
 
Table 1. The list of all cases investigated in the study. 
 
Mixture 
 
Lean methane-air 
(Figs. 3 and 4) 
 
Rich methane-air 
(Figs. 5 and 6) 
 
Lewis 
number < 1 >1 
Flame 
stretch  
Curvature 
stretch  
Flow  
stretch  
Curvature 
stretch  
Flow 
stretch  
Stretch 
type 
negative positive negative positive 
Stretch 
 effect 
weakening strengthening strengthening weakening 
Heat 
loss 
effect 
weakening weakening 
Flame 
shape 
Open tip Closed tip 
Factors Le, curvature stretch, 
Flow stretch ( K ), dQ  
Le, curvature stretch, 
Flow stretch ( K ), dQ  
 
 
Diffusion
Zone
Reaction
Zone
r
Z
U'
                 
d'
 
Fig. 1. Schematic diagram of a conical flame in an 
impinging jet flow. 
 
 
 
 
τ
ψ
A
B
D
C
A: Le<1 B:
 
Le>1
C:
 
Le>1D:
 
Le<1
Flow Direction
Inverted Bunsen Flame Open-Tip Inverted Bunsen Flame
Normal Bunsen FlameOpen-Tip Bunsen Flame
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. Phase plane of Eq. (11) with K =0 and dQ =0. 
The arrows on the characteristic curves indicate 
increasing R  (departing from flame tip), i.e., 
decreasing curvature stretch. Fig. 2 is essentially a 
reproduction from Ref. [16]. 
 
The Eighteenth International Symposium on Transport Phenomena, 
 27-30 August, 2007, Daejeon, KOREA 
EXTINCTION AND SOOT FORMATION OF COUNTERFLOW DIFFUSION FLAMES 
 
De-Hua Chung 1, Shuhn-Shyurng Hou 2, Ta-Hui Lin 1 
1 Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Cheng Kung University 
  Tainan City, Taiwan 70101, ROC 
2 Department of Mechanical Engineering/Clean Energy Center, Kun Shan University 
Tainan Hsien, Taiwan 71003, ROC 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
This experimental study is aimed at investigating the 
characteristics of extinction and soot formation of 
diffusion flames of methane in counterflow of two jet 
streams with angular velocities, which are equal in 
magnitude and same in directions. It is found that the 
critical volumetric concentration of fuel in nitrogen 
corresponding to flame extinction decreases to a 
minimum value and increase thereafter with 
increasing the jet angular velocity. This trend can be 
explained by the variation of the rate of stretch and 
eventual breakdown of laminar flow caused by 
angular velocity. Flow rotation may result in the 
formation of a soot layer on the fuel side of the 
diffusion flame. The process of soot formation is 
dominated by four parameters, namely the volumetric 
concentration of fuel in nitrogen, the volumetric 
concentration of oxygen in nitrogen, the injection 
velocity and the angular velocity. The catalytic effects 
of molecular oxygen and the increased residence time 
of fuel-oxygen molecules in the vicinity of the high 
temperature flame zone, caused by the flow 
recirculation, are in part responsible for the formation 
of soot layer. The thickness of the soot layer 
increases with the jet angular velocity. Also, the 
thickness of the soot layer increases with the 
volumetric concentration of fuel or oxygen in nitrogen. 
However, as the injection velocity increases, the soot 
formation is suppressed.  
 
INTRODUCTION 
It is recognized that in most practical combustion 
devices, such as internal combustion engine, gas 
turbines, boiler and industrial furnaces, heat transfer 
rate, efficiency and emissions of fine particles are 
significantly affected by the presence of soot. 
Evidently, to gain a greater understanding of soot 
formation processes in flames and their effective 
control mechanisms is of importance since the 
increasing concerns of energy conservation and 
environmental protection.  
     In recent years, several key parameters affecting 
sooting characteristics have been extensively 
investigated. For instance, the significant influences of 
pressure, oxygen enrichment, flame temperature, 
flame structure, fuel dilution, gaseous additives, flow 
field, and electric field on soot formation have been 
documented separately [1-14 ].  
     Traditionally, air is employed as an oxidizer for 
gaseous burning of non-premixed flame. However, 
oxygen-enriched combustion such as natural gas fired 
industrial furnaces has several advantages, e.g., the 
increase in maximum temperature and thermal 
efficiency, the reduction of soot concentrations, and 
the improvement of flame stability. Hence, there is a 
growing interest in oxygen enrichment effects on soot 
formation in hydrocanbon diffusion flames. 
     Great effort has been devoted to the study of soot 
formation of diffusion flames in counterflow 
configuration due to its simple quasi-one-dimensional 
flow field and its relevant modeling of stretched 
laminar flamelets combustion within turbulent diffusion 
flames. However, less attention has been paid on the 
influence of flow vorticity and its interactions with 
stretch on combustion characteristics of counterflow 
diffusion flames [15] or premixed flames [16].  
     The objective of this study is to investigate the 
characteristics of extinction and soot formation of 
methane diffusion flames in counterflow of two jet 
streams with angular velocities, which are equal in 
magnitude and same in directions. The effects of flow 
rotation on the extinction characteristics of counterflow 
diffusion flames are investigated. Additionally, soot 
formation influenced by fuel dilution (the volumetric 
concentration of fuel in nitrogen), oxygen enrichment 
(the volumetric concentration of oxygen in nitrogen), 
stretch rate associated with the injection velocity and 
the angular velocity of the jets are examined and 
discussed.  
      
EXPERIMENTAL 
The experimental investigations are performed by 
using the opposed-jet flow (OJF) configuration. The 
opposed flow structure provides the capability of 
studying the influence of stretch rate on the non-
premixed flames. In addition, the burner system is 
made possible to introduce the rigid-body rotation 
into the flow field, and then to study the influence of 
flow rotation on extinction and soot formation of 
counterflow diffusion flames.  
A schematic diagram of the OJF is shown in Fig. 
1. The OJF system consists of two identical 
vertically-aligned cylindrical burners, 46 mm inside 
diameter, which can rotate about their axis of 
symmetry. Each burner contains series of small wire-
mesh screens and honeycombs in order to produce 
uniform velocity profile at the exit plane of burner and 
to insure rigid-body rotation of the gas inside the 
burner. The separation distance between the burner 
exit planes in OJF, L, is adjustable but kept at 
The Eighteenth International Symposium on Transport Phenomena, 
 27-30 August, 2007, Daejeon, KOREA 
the diffusion flame. In the present study, the process 
of soot formation is dominated by four parameters, 
namely the volumetric concentration of fuel in nitrogen, 
the volumetric concentration of oxygen in nitrogen, the 
injection velocity and the angular velocity.  
     Figure 6 indicates the influence of the volumetric 
concentration of fuel in nitrogen F, LΩ , the injection 
velocity V and the angular velocity ω  on soot 
formation. For fixed values of V and O, UΩ , as ω  
increases, a thin layer of soot begins to develop on 
the fuel side of the diffusion flame for sufficiently large 
fuel concentration in the lower flow. 
      The stoichiometrically adjusted value of F, LΩ , 
F, L S( )Ω ,  corresponding to a given O, UΩ  is O, U0.5 Ω  
for methane. For instance, as O, UΩ =40%, F, L S( )Ω  
equals to 20%. It is noted that the soot layer can be 
formed only when F, L F, L S > ( )Ω Ω , as shown in Fig. 6. 
Interestingly, for O, UΩ =40%, the contour for onset of 
soot formation approaches to F, L F, L S = ( )Ω Ω =20% line. 
In other words, no soot layer takes place for 
F, L F, L S < ( )Ω Ω  as ω  increases.   
Figure 6 also shows that for a fixed value of O, UΩ , 
as the injection velocity V increases, the initiation of 
soot layer occurs at a larger value of F, LΩ . This 
sooting characteristic is caused by the increased 
strain rate which in turn leads to the decrease of 
residence time of the fuel-oxygen mixture in the high 
temperature zones near the flame. The reduced 
catalytic effects of molecular oxygen and the 
decreased residence time of fuel-oxygen molecules in 
the vicinity of the high temperature flame zone are 
responsible for the suppression of soot formation.  
Figure 7 depicts the direct photographs of the 
variations of soot layer as ω  increases at V=20 cm/s 
and O, UΩ = 40%. As can be seen, the non-sooting 
diffusion flame for ω=0 rps is composed of thin blue-
violet fuzzy zone on the oxidizer side and a bright 
green-blue zone on the fuel side. As ω  is increased, 
the flame becomes much thicker and gradually 
appears yellowish in color with a thin blue layer on the 
fuel side. That is, the thickness of the soot layer 
increases with the jet angular velocity ω . As described 
above, the catalytic effects of molecular oxygen and 
the increased residence time of fuel-oxygen 
molecules in the vicinity of the high temperature flame 
zone, caused by the flow recirculation, are responsible 
for the formation of soot layer. 
Figure 8 illustrates the influence of the volumetric 
concentration of oxygen in nitrogen O, UΩ , the injection 
velocity V and the angular velocity ω on soot 
formation. The results show that for a given value of V, 
as ω  increases, soot layer can be formed at a lower 
fuel concentration F, LΩ for a larger O, UΩ , indicating 
that oxygen enrichment  is  essential to the formation 
of soot layer. Note that molecular oxygen plays a 
significant role in catalyzing soot formation. 
Recognizing that the soot formation may be attributed 
to the mixing of oxygen with fuel induced by flow 
rotation, which is an essential dominant parameter.  
 
CONCLUSIONS 
In this study, the characteristics of extinction and soot 
formation of counterflow diffusion flames under the 
influence of the volumetric concentration of fuel in 
nitrogen, the volumetric concentration of oxygen in 
nitrogen, the injection velocity and the angular velocity 
are investigated. Concluding remarks from the results 
are as follows. 
(1)  As the angular velocity of the jets increases, the 
critical volumetric concentration of fuel in nitrogen 
corresponding to flame extinction decreases to a 
minimum value and then increase with the jet 
angular velocity. These characteristics are caused 
by the variation of the rate of stretch and eventual 
breakdown of laminar flow caused by angular 
velocity. 
(2)  Flow rotation is an essential dominant parameter 
for the formation of a soot layer on the fuel side of 
the diffusion flame. The catalytic effects of 
molecular oxygen and the increased residence 
time of fuel-oxygen molecules in the vicinity of the 
high temperature flame zone, caused by the flow 
recirculation, are responsible for the formation of 
soot layer.  
(3)  For fixed values of injection velocity and oxygen 
concentration in the upper flow, with increasing 
the jet angular velocity, the flame gradually moves 
towards the upper oxidizer nozzle. Meanwhile, the 
thickness of the soot layer increase with the 
angular velocity.  
(4)  The thickness of the soot layer increases with the 
volumetric fuel concentration in nitrogen of the 
lower burner or the volumetric oxygen 
concentration in nitrogen of the upper burner. 
(5)  As the injection velocity increases, the soot 
formation is suppressed due to the increase of 
strain rate. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This work was supported by the National Science 
Council, Taiwan, ROC, under contract NSC 95-2221-
E-168-034. 
 
REFERENCES 
1. D.X. Du, H. Wang and C.K. Law, Soot Formation 
in Counterflow Ethylene Diffusion Flames from 1 
to 2.5 Atmospheres, Combst. Flame 113, 264-
270 (1998). 
2. C.J. Sung, B. Li, H. Wang and C.K. Law, 
Structure and Sooting Limits in Counterflow 
Methane/Air and Propane/Air Diffusion Flames 
from 1 to 5 Atmosphere, Proc. Combust. Instit. 
27, 1523-1530 (1998). 
3. O.L. Gulder, Effect of Oxygen on Soot Formation 
in Methane, Propane, and n-Butane Diffusion 
The Eighteenth International Symposium on Transport Phenomena, 
 27-30 August, 2007, Daejeon, KOREA 
 
0
1
2
3
4
5
0 4 8
0
1
2
3
4
0 4 8 12
ΩF, L
50 %
45 %
40 %
35 %
30 %
25 %
20 %
ω (rps)
z b
 
(m
m
)
ΩΟ, U = 21 %
V = 30 cm/s
V = 20 cm/sV = 15 cm/s
V = 25 cm/s
 
Fig. 3  Flame position (zb) with angular velocity ( ω ) for 
different fuel concentrations ( F, LΩ ) and injection 
velocities (V). The oxygen concentration in the mixture 
of N2 and O2  is fixed at O, UΩ =21%. 
 
-1
0
1
2
3
4
0 4 8
-1
0
1
2
3
0 4 8 12
ω (rps)
z b
 
(m
m
)
ΩF, L
40 %
35 %
30 %
25 %
20 %
ΩΟ, U = 30 %
V = 30 cm/s
V = 20 cm/sV = 15 cm/s
V = 25 cm/s
 
Fig. 4  Flame position (zb) with angular velocity ( ω ) for 
different fuel concentrations ( F, LΩ ) and injection 
velocities (V). The oxygen concentration in the mixture 
of N2 and O2  is fixed at O, UΩ = 30%. 
 
 
 
-1
0
1
2
3
4
0 4 8
-1
0
1
2
3
0 4 8 12
ω (rps)
z b
 
(m
m
)
ΩF, L
35 %
30 %
25 %
20 %
ΩΟ, U = 40 %
V = 30 cm/s
V = 20 cm/sV = 15 cm/s
V = 25 cm/s
 
Fig. 5 Flame position (zb) with angular velocity ( ω ) for 
different fuel concentrations ( F, LΩ ) and injection 
velocities (V). The oxygen concentration in the mixture 
of N2 and O2  is fixed at O, UΩ = 40%. 
 
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14
ω (rps)
30
40
50
20
30
40
10
20
30
40
ΩO, U = 21 %
ΩO, U = 30 %
ΩO, U = 40 %
30
25
20
15
V (cm/s)
↑SOOT  LAYER
Ω
F,
 
L 
(%
)
↑
NO SOOT
 
Fig. 6 Variations of critical fuel concentrations ( F, LΩ ) 
at the onset of soot formation with angular velocity 
( ω ) under a fixed oxygen concentration ( O, UΩ ) for 
different injection velocities (V).  
 
 
 
 
 
