some researchers propose, the adaptive, PID, Fuzzy controllers respectively [5][6][9-13]. To
increase the efficiency and protections, some researchers study different converter for EDM [14].
Also, some researchers propose AC power supply to the electrode and working pieces rather than
the conventional DC power supply [16].
.
In this project, we propose a mathematical model to illustrate the EDM process through
electro-magnetic and circuit theory. This model considers the resistance and capacitance for the
electrode gap by electromagnetic theory. It can be observed that the “Ignition Delay Time” is 
closed related to RC time constant for the circuit of EDM machine. We find that as the electrode
and work-piece are parallel and perfect flat surface, then the overall control system becomes a
linear system. However, if the electrode and work-piece are not perfect parallel plate, the overall
control system becomes a nonlinear Lur’e problem. It is wel known that for a Lur’e problem, 
Circle criterion and Popov criterion can be applied to determine the stability of the control system
[17-21]. Also, it can be proved that if the loop transfer function for the Lur'e problem is SPR
(Strict Positive Real), then the overall system is globally asymptotically stable. Also, it can be
observedthat the necessary condition for the loop transfer function in Lur’e problem to be SPR is
that the relative degree of the linear transfer function must be less equal than one and no double
poles on the imaginary axis. With this approach, a differential PID controller is proposed. The
differential-PID controller is a PID controller cascaded with a differential controller. A necessary
and sufficient condition for the overall transfer function to be SPR is also proposed.
In the middle stage of machining process, according to electromagnetic theory, it can be also
shown that the overall control system becomes a nonlinear system where the nonlinear element is
in the sector ]1,0( . According to the Circle Criterion, a suitable PID controller can stabilize the
overall control system.
As for the final stage of machining process, it can be also shown that the overall control system
becomes a purely linear system, a suitable PID controller can ensured the overall system is
globally asymptotically stable. In this project, we also explore the hydraulic servo of die-sinking
EDM and similar conclusions can be drawn.
Experimental results for the EDM machine verify the results.
(三）研究方法
研究方法，研究理論及進行步驟可分敘如下：大約可分為
（I）導弧時間(Ignition Delay Time)的說明,與切銷速度(cutting speed),表面粗糙度（surface
roughness）及電極消耗（electrode wear）的關係;
(II)放電加工機的電路模型:吾人發現放電加工機的放電穩定與導弧時間(Ignition Delay
the position of electrode. As the gap between the electrode and work piece below certain distance
(about 10-90 um), the electro-discharge will happen. In the meantime, as seen in Fig.2, the gap
voltage gV initially maintained the DC voltage dcV , then at the time Dt , the gap voltage gV drops
to a very low voltage (in general 25 V(20-30V depend on the materials of electrode and work
piece)). Here, the time, Dt , as seen in Fig.2, is called ignition delay time. The servo controller
tries to keep the ignition delay time Dt around certain value 20~120μs. If the ignition delay
time Dt can be kept as a constant means the electro-discharge is normal and happened, which
can be shown in Fig.2; otherwise, it is abnormal such that the EDM is in “open”or “short”
condition. As seen in Fig.2, if the ignition delay time Dt is too long, shown in Fig.2, this means
the circuit is “open” and if the ignition delay time is too short, this means the circuit is a “short” 
circuit. Both cases are abnormal and electro-discharge is not happened. Therefore, it is very
important keep the ignition delay time Dt to be a constant. The error of the ignition delay time
should be kept as small as possible. When the discharge is happened, the time Et as seen in Fig.2,
is caled “Discharge Duration”, which is the time duration such that the discharge is happened. In 
general, the discharge duration Et is closed related the roughness of the work-piece can be
controlled by the hardware such as a timer. As the discharge happens, it continues the process until
“discharge duration time” Et and then disconnected the power supply. This stops of the discharge.
ot （Discharge off Time） is the time that EDM disconnected by the power supply. Discharge
duration time Et and Discharge off Time ot can be controlled by the hardware such as timer. To
maintain same quality of roughness for work-piece, the   “discharge duration time” Et should
kept as a constant, which is called the equal energy control as seen in Fig.3 [1,2, 15]. However, the
most important time index for EDM is the ignition delay time Dt since it determines whether
electro-discharge is happened or not. If this time Dt is kept as a constant, then the efficiency can
be enhanced.
The duty factor D is defined as follows:
oED
E
ttt
t
D

 (1)
The meaning of duty factor D is the average percentage of overall time such that the
discharge is happened.
Also, the discharged current PI is shown in Fig.3, the average current I has the relation
with the discharged current PI
PDII  (2)
Considering Cu ( copper electrode) in the anode (+) , working piece is steel (in the cathode)
and according to the formula[3][4], the cutting speed (metal removal rate) W can be written as
DIW p  5.1097.0 (3)
, the surface roughness maxR can be expressed by
38.043.0
max 6.1 Ep tIR  (4)
In this sequel, we try to explore the overall servo-control model for electro-discharge in EDM. We
find that if the electrode and work-piece are two parallel plates, the overall control system is a
purely linear system. (For die-sinking EDM, this case is adapt for final furnishing). In general, for
die-sinking EDM, the overall control system is not a linear system. Let’s state this as follows:
According to the circuit theory, the ignition delay time Dt
)CC(R2.22.2t ggd   (7)
where Dt is the ignition delay time; gC and gR are some nonlinear function of the gap distance
d . Note that the capacitor C also includes the capacitor of rectifier of DC power supply.
Also, according to electro-magnetic theory, we have
0CR gg 

(8)
where is the permeability and is the resistance coefficient of the dielectric liquid oil respectively.
Note, in general, for dielectric fluid ns1


(when compared to ignition delay time
us100 ), this term can be neglected.
If the capacitance C is large enough, from Eq.(7) we have
CRCRt ggd 2.22.22.2  

(9)
From Eq.(9), it can be observed that the ignition delay time Dt is determined by the gap
resistance gR . The gap resistance gR is some nonlinear function of the gap distance d
Then, let’s consider the gap resistance gR of the following cases:
(1) Parallel Plate
If the shape of work-piece and electrode is assumed perfect parallel plate, as seen in Fig.7, then we
have
d
A
C,
A
d
R gg


 (10)
where A is area for the parallel plate , d is the gap distance and gC is the gap capactance.
Fig.8 shows the actual measurement of the gap resistance gR for EDM. As seen in Fig.8,
it can be observed that as the gap distance varies from 0 to 40 um, the gap resistance becomes
from 0to 1.2k and suddenly increases to 1k as the gap distance is around 25 um. From
Fig.8, it can be observed that the gap resistance gR is some nonlinear function of gap distance
Expressed by
)(dRRg  (15)
which is in the sector 




2
,0

, where d is the gap distance, which is in the beginning of
machining process for the die-sinking EDM as seen in Fig. 9(a).
III The Control System for EDM(放電加工機的控制系統分析)
In this section, we will address the control system of the EDM process. It can be shown
that the overal control system can be represented by a transformed Lur’e problem. As shown in 
Fig.9, the control output is the ignition delay time Dt . In general, the ignition delay time is
selected as 20~100μs. Figure 9 shows the block diagram of the servo control of the ignition
delay time Dt for EDM machine. From Eq.(10), it can be observed that if the work-piece and
electrode are perfect parallel plate, the servo control system becomes a perfect linear system.
However, if the work-piece and electrode is the general case of Fig.5, the servo system becomes a
nonlinear Lur’e problem shown in Fig.10. In the Lur’e problem, the nonlinear function is due to
the gap resistance gR , which is some nonlinear function of the gap distance d. From Eq.(3), it can
be observed that the ignition delay time Dt is closed related to the gap resistance.
In the sequeal, let’s consider the general case of electrode and working piece and let’s state as
follows:
)()( sk
s
k
kssG d
I
pc  (18)
Not that the controller in Eq.(18), which not only makes the relative degree of loop transfer
function )(sG become one but it also eliminates the double roots of zero.
Then we have the following results:
To ensure SPR condition of loop transfer function )(sG ,   ,0))(Re( jG , the PID coefficients
of the proposed differential-PID controller must satisfy
Imepp
me
me
d kkkk )(, 
 

 (19)
The derivation of Eq.(19) is listed in Appendix A.
Note that in general em   , Eq.(19) can be approximately rewritten as
Impped kkkk   , (20)
On the other hand, some drivers of DC motor are designed to have a feedback-loop inside
the current loop. This type of DC servo motor is called torque-mode driver. For torque-mode DC
motor drivers, similar conclusions can be drawn. The conclusion is that a PID controller cannot
make the loop transfer function )()()( sGsGsG pc to be SPR. Also, the proposed
differential-PID controller can make the loop transfer function SPR. The derivation of this
conclusion is shown in Appendix A.
(2) In the middle stage of machining process of die sinking EDM
Consider that in the middle stage of machining process of die sinking EDM of Fig.9(b) and let’s
assume that the gap distance d and gap lateral distance 1d are small enough when compare the
size of electrode, as seen in Fig.9(b) such that the surface of electrode and working pieces can be
approximately as a flat surface. .
Then , from Eq.(10), the gap capacitance gC can be expressed by
dAdA
C
bl
g
 
1
(21)
where lA is the area of later surface and bA is the area of bottom surface for the electrode
respectively. In addition, 1d is the lateral distance and d is the gap distance of bottom surface as
average error for five-time experiments is about 22.05 us. The controlled results are shown in
Fig.11, Fig.12 respectively.
Experiment
Times
1 2 3 4 5 Average
Error of
Dt (us)
Optimal PID
Controller
68.73 59.04 77.46 54.99 77.1 68.07
Differential
PID
Controller
23.94 21.72 29.53 11.4 23.67 22.05
Table 1: The control error of Ignition Delay Time Td
Figure11 and 12 show the real-time control of the error of ignition delay time for the optimal PID
controller and the proposed differential-PID controller respectively. Fig.13 shows the efficiency of
EDM for the original controller and the proposed controller. It can be observed that the efficiency
already has been increased 33% for the first stage. For machining the depth of 12.7 mm, the
optimized PID controller is about 60 min. However, for the proposed controller, it takes about 41
min. It is really increase the efficiency at the beginning of machining process of die sinking EDM.
As to the middle and final stages of machining process of die sinking EDM. The controller
becomes the conventional PID controller. Fig.14 is the photo of EDM.
V. References
[1] M.-H. Su, “EDM Theory and Applications”,Industry Mechanical Magazine, 1988 (Chinese
edition).
[2] Y.-J. Chung, “The Servo Control of Wire Cuting EDM ”,  Industry Mechanical Magazine,
1991 (Chinese edition).
[3] K. S. Dong,“EDM”, Fu Wen Book Store, 2005 (Chinese edition)
[4] W. C. Chang,“The Structure and Practical Technique of EDM”Cheung Hua Co., 1999
[5] ETHZ Marco Boccadoro, D.F.Dauw,” About the Application of Fuzzy Controlers in 
High-Performance Die-Sinking EDM Machines”, Annals of the CIRP Vol.44, No.1, 1995,
pp.147-150.
[6] I.M. Weck, et.al,” Analysis and Adaptive Control ofEDM Sinking Process Using the Ignition
[24] Takehiko Takahashi and Taro Kawase, “Calculation of Earth Resistance for a Deep-Driven
Rod in a Multi-Layer Earth Structure “, IEEE Trans. on Power Delivery, Vol.6 No.2, Apr.
1991, pp.608-614.
[25] Chingyei Chung etal “一個轉換的 Lur’e 問題應用於放電加工機之研究”, 2001,自控研討
會
[26] Yih-Fang Chang etal, “Monitor and Control of Discharge Energy During Dimming”, Asia
Journal of Control, Vol.7 No.1, pp.38-49, March, 2005.
VI. Appendix A
From Eq.(9) and Eq.(11), the overall transfer function can be written as
)1)(1(
)(
)(
2



me
dpI
sss
skskkk
sG

(A-1)
With partial fractional expansion of Eq.(A-1), we have
)1)(1(
])())([(
)(



me
ImeddImepI
ss
kskkkk
s
kk
sG


(A-2)
From Eq.(A-2), with 0)()()(Re   jGjGjG and substituting js into Eq.(A-2),
we can have the results of Eq.(19)
For a torque-mode DC motor driver, if we neglected the dynamics of current feedback loop, the
plant transfer function can be simplified as
)(
)(
DJss
k
sG p 
 (A-3)
where J is the moment of inertia and D is the damping coefficient.
If the controller )(sGc is a PID controller, then the loop transfer function )()()( sGsGsG pc can
be written as
)(
)(
)( 2
2
DJss
skskkk
sG dpI


 (A-4)
It can be observed that in Eq.(A-4), the loop transfer function )(sG cannot to be SPR
Rkkk DIp  ,, since )(sG has double roots of zero, which is on the imaginary axis [15]. Even
Figure 3: The Current and Gap Voltage Waveform for Equal Energy Discharge
Figure 4(a): The Equivalent CKT for EDM
Q4
2N4410/TO
V1
80-120Vdc
R1
1
Q1
2N4410/TO
electrode
work piece
R2
1
circuit
control
R3
1
R4
1
Q2
2N4410/TO
Q3
2N4410/TO
02 0 0
4 0 0
6 0 0
8 0 0
1 0 0 0
1 2 0 0
0 5 1 0 1 5 2 0 2 5 3 0 3 5 4 0
G a p D i s t a n c e ( u m )
R
es
ist
an
ce
(Ω
)
Figure 8:The Actual Measurement for the Gap Resistance of EDM
Fig.9(a) The beginning of machining process of die-sinking EDM
Fig.9(b) In the middle and final stage of machining process of die-sinking EDM
