1行政院國家科學委員會補助產學合作研究計畫成果精簡報告
計畫名稱：牙齒比色系統與其商業模式的建置(Development of tooth
shade-matching system with it business model)
計畫類別：□ 先導型 □ 開發型 ■ 技術及知識應用型
計畫編號：NSC 99－2622－E－194－004－CC3
執行期間： 99 年 11 月 1 日至 100 年 10 月 31 日
執行單位：國立中正大學資訊管理所
計畫主持人：吳 帆 副教授
計畫參與人員：國立中正大學資訊管理所 李曉慧、白浩廷、劉軒豪
研究摘要：對於大部分需要植牙的牙科病患來說，理想的贗復牙必須和鄰近牙
齒的顏色相近，才顯得自然，因此，牙齒比色在病患植牙前成為不可或缺
的重要步驟。 雖然目前市面上已經有一些牙齒比色的軟體，但其價格及
使用方式都不盡友善，也不普遍。本研究以網頁方式呈現的牙齒比色服
務，使用者以一般數位相機和配合環燈拍攝牙齒影像，然後將其拍攝結果
上傳到系統中，在上述流程完成後，系統將產生牙科指示單，包含自動比
色結果與色塊分佈，並經由網路將牙科指示單傳輸給技工所，系統為了得
到準確的比色結果，會對影像執行顏色校正(如白平衡)、牙齒位置偵測、
將影像上的牙齒顏色與比色板上的色片進行分群比色。
人才培育成果說明：本計畫有兩名博士班學生李曉慧、白浩廷參與，李曉慧本
在醫院資訊室任職，透過本計畫對牙科資訊系統有更進一步了解，其博士
論文亦以醫療資訊為主，該生已通過資格考且都修課完，預計一年內會畢
業，任職於醫療資訊相關校系或機構。
技術研發成果說明：自動比色結果與色塊分佈，會對影像執行顏色校正(如白
平衡)、牙齒位置偵測、將影像上的牙齒顏色與比色板上的色片進行分群
比色。
技術特點說明：人眼比對，準確度會因人因光線而異，所以需要電腦比對以提
升準確性，國外比色儀器要價 30 萬，本系統以使用量計費，不需使用專
用比色儀器，具極強的價格競爭力
可利用之產業及可開發之產品：可利用之產業為牙科假牙製造，可轉給牙材製
造或牙科軟體公司，成為牙材服務的配合軟體
推廣及運用的價值：此計畫可提升假牙(牙冠)色澤的逼真性，收費方式以比對
一顆牙 10 元收費，一個預計有 100 間診所使用，每診所每月 30 顆牙計算，
一年有 36 萬收入，可增加牙材公司或技工所附加價值。
中 華 民 國 101 年 3 月 23 日
3population whose ages are over twelve. In
other words, for those persons, demand for
prosthesis is huge. The shade guide tabs, the
most common tool used recently is simple to
use as well as easy to carry. But it has the
disadvantage that human perception of color
varies in different illumination. The accuracy
of shade matching directly through the
visualization of dentists may be affected by
the physical phenomena of light, color
temperatures, tooth transparency and the
observer’s eyes and brain influencing the
entire perception of tooth color [6].
To alleviate the uncertainty of shade
matching through visualization, dentists use
many digital instruments to assist them for
tooth matching. Previous studies have been
shown that many scholars used the
colorimeter and spectrophotometer to describe
the color of teeth. The matching result is
objective and precise, but the detection area of
the instrument and the range of color selection
are limited, in addition the probe of these
instruments can't be fully fit in the teeth
surfaces [7, 8]. It is reported that the accuracy
of shade matching is about 50% if using the
digital instruments like colorimeter or
spectrophotometer [5].
In addition to the accuracy of shade
matching, some key factors that will affect the
quality of prosthesis (such as the patient's oral
health status, prosthesis material, specific
diseases (like HIV+) and a communication
channel through internet to connect the
dentists and dental technicians). Providing a
simple process with high accuracy and
reasonable cost is important for tooth
matching [9].
In this paper, we proposed a tooth shade
matching system by utilizing a digital camera
and ring light to take a picture of the natural
tooth for analyzing its color distribution. With
the help of the color card and tab associated in
the picture of the tooth, the color correction
can be easily performed through the white
balance technique and some color correction
method [10]. We use another ring light in
different angle with the camera in taking
pictures for the same tooth to reduce the
reflective light from the surface of the tooth.
Then we perform the edge detection to find
the location of the teeth by applying the
morphology on such a picture of a tooth
without the reflective light. In the same time,
the noises of the picture are removed, and the
edge is smoothed through the morphology. We
then cluster the colors on the surface of the
tooth through the technique of unsupervised
learning under the condition that the number
of the colors is given. Finally, we use the
Euclidean distance to find the closest color in
the shade guide tab for each color cluster, the
results being represented as pseudo color
spectrum to clearly delineate their distribution.
The above processes will be performed in a
Web-based environment associated with the
management tools for users such that the users,
the dentists and dental technicians, can
communicate, follow up and trace the
schedule for a tooth easily.
As the result of this system, we adapt the
qualitative interviews to evaluate whether the
procedure of the system display is consistent
with the clinic practice and whether the
dentists and technicians accept the accuracy of
this system. The results show that the
procedure of the system display is consistent
with the clinic practice and the system can be
decision support system in the shade matching,
increasing the correctness of shade matching.
2. Related work
2.1. Color of natural teeth
Intrinsic and extrinsic colorations are key
factors to determine the color of natural tooth
[2]. Natural teeth are formed with enamel,
dentin, pulp and cementum. Intrinsic
coloration is closely related to both the dentin
thickness and transparency enamel [11]. The
more complete structure the dentin has the
more natural yellow color of the tooth it is. In
addition, the better development of the tissue
the enamel has the more transparency the
enamel has. For example, for a tooth with its
the enamel being transparent, the tooth will be
seen as pale yellow or yellowish-white; for a
tooth with its enamel being poor transparency,
the tooth then will be seen as ivory or pearl
white [12]. Extrinsic coloration may be
associated with extrinsic stain, such as tea or
tobacco, on the surface of the enamel [13].
Since of the intrinsic and extrinsic factors, it is
complex and difficult to describe the color of
teeth. Thus, we need a color matching system
to analyze the color distribution of natural
teeth.
5space to CIELAB color space is [17]:
where X, Y and Z denote the tristimulus
values of short, middle and long wavelengths.
After getting the three values of X, Y, and Z
in the intermediate color space, these three
values can be transferred to the values of ,
, as is shown below [16]:
After getting the characteristics of colors
(shown in equation (1), (2) and (4)), we can
represent the saturation and intensity of colors
and, furthermore, the difference of two colors
if we perform the color matching between two
colors.
2.3. Tooth color matching
Since digitalized photographing prevails
nowadays, precisely and automatically
analyze the color distribution in a tooth and
perform the color comparison between two
teeth are the crucial steps in making prosthesis
as natural one. For analyzing the color of
natural tooth, dentists can use many different
shade matching method, which are mainly
divided into two categories: one is the
conventional shade matching; the other is
technology-based shade matching [12]:
In convention, most dentists use shade
guide to do shade matching. Shade guide has
its advantage that it is easy to carry and simple
to use; its disadvantage is that the color
distribution of the shade guide is not abundant
enough to cover all the spectrum of the color
of natural tooth.
In the category of technology-based shade
matching, there are varieties of instruments,
such as colorimeter and spectrophotometer
that dentists can use. Each instrument has its
own features, advantages and disadvantages
[2]. For example, the colorimeter and
spectrophotometer instruments can directly
and easily get color parameters of the teeth,
but their probe can't fully fit in the tooth
surface. As a result, the measure of colors is
not so precise as the expected. In decade, the
new digital automatic shade matching
machines such as ShadeScan, ShadeEye and
EasyShade were developed. Their probes are
more sensitive and more accurate, since they
provide stable light source and can contact the
tooth surface directly in collecting the tooth
shade. But this instrument is too expensive for
clinics and the result only refers to the
proprietary tab or material; in addition, the
probe is too small that it cannot contact more
than one tooth at the same time. If dentists
want to perform color matching for more than
one tooth, they will take a lot of time to do it.
Recently, Chair-side Economical Restorations
of Esthetic Ceramics 3D (CEREC 3D) was
developed, which can make digital impression
and then produce ceramic dental restoration
within 30 minutes by using 3D photography
and CAD/CAM. The fabrication quality of
CEREC 3D is acceptable in terms of fitness,
but the color of prosthesis is not so fine in
terms of naturalness [18].
No matter the differences of conventional
shade matching, technology-based shade
matching or CEREC 3D, they all pursue the
accuracy of color reproduction and fast
delivery in shade matching. To increase the
accuracy and quality of shade matching in
dental clinics, a shade matching system that is
not so expensive and can be easily used is
needed. Therefore, this paper proposed a new
shade matching method that it performs
accurate color analysis and matching from the
pictures of teeth taken by a home camera and
the results of shade matching can be
compatible with all of sets of tabs.
3. Development of shade matching
approach
3.1 Acquirement of an ideal picture
Since different light source has different
color temperatures that will affect the
sampling of color parameters in the picture.
While taking the picture, there is a shooting
requirement that the dentist should provide a
stable light targeting at the tooth, capable of
reducing the reflective light from the surface
of the tooth. For providing such a stable light,
7should be transferred into the corresponding
values in the RGB color space. Thus, we
transform the CIELAB parameters (values) of
the tabs colors to the corresponding RGB
parameter through Equations 5 to 10 for the
color correction that will be performed later in
RGB color space. The color parameters of
Vitapan Classical tabs represented in CIELAB
space [19] and their corresponding parameters
in RGB color space are shown in Table 1.
To correct the color in an image, we use
three standards, namely, the pure white, pure
black, and the tab, for it. Note that the
parameters of the pure white and pure black
are pre-known, and the parameters for each
tab have been defined in Table 1 in a standard
illumination. Clearly, the standard
illumination, denoted as illumination S, is not
the same as the illumination, denoted as
illumination T, provided in the working
environment. Thus, the R, G and B parameters
of a standard i under standard illumination S,
denoted as , where standard i can
be the pure black, pure white or the tab taken
in the picture of the teeth should have some
difference from the R, G and B parameters,
denoted as , of this standard
under the illumination T.
To correct the color values from given
illumination T to standard illumination S, we
first calculate the conversion vector for
each standard i, According to the study in [10],
the conversion vector is defined as the
vector . We
then calculate the average conversion vector
of all standards from illumination T to
illumination S, denoted as
. Also according to the
study in [10], the conversion vector is
defined as follows:
where is the number of standards, and
.
After deriving the average conversion
vector, we use it to adjust the color of the
image taken under the illumination T. Since
the standards and the teeth are taken together
in a picture (see Figure 2), the teeth and the
standards should have the same color bias.
The color bias for the standards can be easily
got from Eq. (11); the color of the teeth can be
corrected accordingly. In detail, assume a
pixel (x, y) has its color values in RGB color
space, denoted as
, under a given
illumination T. The color values after
correction, denoted as
, for the
pixel (x, y) will be adjusted by adding the
average conversion vector [10]; that is,
Through the color correction, we can ensure
the consistency of dental images. The next
step is to perform the differentiation of the
levels of saturation and intensity of the tooth
surface, which are important guides for dental
technicians while making the prosthesis.
For presenting the different levels of
saturation and intensity of a color of the tooth
surface, we transform the color values of the
tooth surface in RGB color space into the HSI
color space since HSI color space can display
the levels of saturation and intensity of a color
directly from the color values of the color in
RGB color space. Note that the transformation
of a color value from RGB color space to HSI
color space is easy (see Equation (1), (2) and
(3)). The levels of the intensity of the tooth
surface can be further used to detect the edge
of the tooth through Sobel operation
performed on the image [20] and then is used
to locate the contour of the tooth. The contour
of a tooth will help technician to know the
tooth shape while making the prosthesis.
3.3. Clustering of color spectrum of tooth
Cluster analysis is to divide a set of data
into several clusters of data such that the data
in the same cluster will be similar to all of
data in this cluster but different from the data
in other clusters [21]. Among all the data in a
cluster, the centroid of a cluster is the data that
has the least average distance away from the
other data in the same cluster. Clustering the
color spectrum of tooth into several clusters is
needed in shade matching so as that the
technician can easily color the prosthesis with
9Figure 4(d) shows the image after
re-clustering the image in Figure 4(c) if the
number of clusters is only five. For easily
checking the correctness of the above
processing, Figure 4(e) shows the final image
with the colors of Vitapan Classical tabs.
Figure 4. (a) Original image. (b) Clustered result with 16 centroids, represented with false color.
(c) Clustered result after mask operation. (d) Re-clustered result with top 5 colors of tabs. (e)
Final image represented with the five colors of tabs.
Figure 5. System display of dental prescription
11
It is worth noting that the initial clustered
image in Figure 5(h) is clustered with sixteen
different tabs. It is impractical to cluster the
colors in a tooth surface into sixteen different
colors. The proposed system allows the dentist
(or technician) to designate how many colors
to cluster the colors. The system provides the
statistics of the histogram of each color in the
initial clustered image, letting the dentist
know how many quantities of pixels each
color of tabs occupies, as is shown in Figure
6(a). With the histogram, the dentist can easily
estimate how many tabs, if used, can represent
the most area of the surface of a tooth.
Suppose the dentist decides to use five colors
of tabs to represent the colors of the tooth
surface. The system will then re-cluster the
initial clustered image in Figure 5(h). Figure
6(b) is the new histogram of each color in the
re-clustered image with the constraint that
only five colors of tabs can be used. Figure 5(i)
and 5(j) are the re-clustered image represented
with the five designated false colors and the
corresponding colors of tabs, respectively.
(a)
(b)
Figure 6. (a) The colors distribution with 16 tabs. (b) The colors distribution with top-5 tabs.
Figure 7. System display of select the request tabs
Though the system can cluster the surface
of a tooth with the designated number of tabs,
some patients may not satisfy the objective
results. They may hope the prosthesis to be
13
of four colors containing at least two colors
are shown. In theories [23, 24], if the value of
PSNR between two images is higher than
30(dB), it is difficult to distinguished the
difference between these two images. We can
see the values of PSNR of the images
corrected by three standards (i.e., one tab and
two other colors) are all higher than those of
the images corrected by four or five standards
(i.e., one tan and three and four other colors).
Thus, the proposed system uses only three
standards to correct the images. In addition,
among all the images corrected by three
standards, the values of PSNR of the image
corrected by the standard of pure white and
pure black is higher than those of images
corrected by the standards of other two colors.
It is speculated that the colors of pure white
and pure black are two extreme colors in the
brightness of colors. If these two colors are
corrected into the correct ones, the other
colors in the same picture will have the best
correct result in the view of human perception
[25]. In another view point, an object’s color 
is determined by the spectrum of the light
reflected from it, this spectrum is combine
with the intensity and the surface reflectance.
The intensity is represented by the degree of
brightness; the surface reflectance can be
represented by the R, G, and B parameters
used in the computer system [25]. The
experiments show that if we use the color card
with the highest brightness (pure white) and
the lowest brightness (pure black) on the stem
of tab that has the color close to the tooth to
correct the image, its result is the best one,
compared to other combinations of colors.
Thus, the proposed system uses the pure white
and pure black as the standards attached to the
stem of the tabs.
(a)
(b)
Figure 8. (a) The colors distribution with 16 tabs after color shifting operation. (b) The colors
distribution with the selected colors as well as the shift colors.
15
References
[1] J. A. García, et al., "Measuring the whiteness of
human teeth," Color Research & Application, vol.
18, pp. 349-352, 1993.
[2] A. Joiner, "Tooth colour: a review of the
literature," Journal of Dentistry, vol. 32, pp. 3-12,
2004.
[3] Q. AJ and B. FJ, "A look at dental esthetics.,"
Quintessence International, vol. 25, pp. 7-14,
1994.
[4] A. Hasegawa, et al., "Color of natural tooth
crown in Japanese people," Color Research and
Application, vol. 25, pp. 43-48, Feb 2000.
[5] S. R. Okubo, et al., "Evaluation of visual and
instrument shade matching," Journal of
Prosthetic Dentistry, vol. 80, pp. 642-648, Dec
1998.
[6] W. Rushton, "Visual Pigments and Color
Blindness," Scientific American, vol. 232, pp.
64-74, 1975.
[7] R. C. Sproull, "Color matching in dentistry. Part
II. Practical applications of the organization of
color," Journal of Prosthetic Dentistry, vol. 86,
pp. 458-464, Nov 2001.
[8] O.-H. Tung, "Digital imaging for color matching
in dentistry," Ph. D., Graduate Institute of
Clinical Dentistry School of Dentistry, National
Yang-Ming university, Taipei, 2002.
[9] C. SJ and T. DP, "Digital shade analysis and
verification: a case report and discussion.," Pract
Proced Aesthet Dent, vol. 13, pp. 129-136, 2001.
[10] Y.-J. Choi, et al., "Color correction for object
identification from images with different color
illumination," presented at the Fifth international
joint conference on INC, IMS and IDC, Seoul,
Korea, 2009.
[11] A. Dozic, et al., "Relation in color of three
regions of vital human incisors," Dental
Materials, vol. 20, pp. 832-838, 2004.
[12] S. J. Chu, et al., Fundamentals of color: Sade
matching and communication in esthetic dentistry:
Quintessence 2004.
[13] J.-k. Tan, "Dental Shade Matching Using Color
Block Contents," Master, Department of Medical
Informatics, Tzu-Chi University, Hualicn, 2006.
[14] W.-C. Kao, et al., "Color reproduction for digital
imaging systems," presented at the Circuits and
Systems, 2006. ISCAS 2006. Proceedings. 2006
IEEE International Symposium on Island of Kos
2006.
[15] H. D. Cheng, et al., "Color image segmentation:
advances and prospects," Pattern Recognition,
vol. 34, pp. 2259-2281, Dec 2001.
[16] A. Ford and A. Roberts, "Colour Space
Conversions," Westminster University1998.
[17] F. Lopez, et al., " Fast surface grading using color
statistics in the CIELab space," presented at the
Conference on Pattern Recognition and Image
Analysis, Iberian, 2005.
[18] L. S. Suen, "CEREC 3D," in CEREC New vol. 1,
ed. Taipei: Kuo Hwa Dental Suppliers Co., 2010,
pp. 1-6.
[19] E. Tashkandi, "Consistency in color parameters of
a commonly used shade guide " The Saudi Dental
Journal, vol. 22, pp. 7-11, 2010.
[20] R. C. Gonzalez and R. E. Woods, Digital Image
Processing.: Prentice Hall., 2002.
[21] P.-N. Tan, et al., Introduction to Data Mining:
Addison Wesley, 2005.
[22] M. S. Lin, "H.264 Lossless Compression Designs
for IPTV Platforms," Master, Institute of
Computer and Communication Engineering,
National Cheng Kung Umiversity, Tainan, 2007.
[23] L. Harn, "Digital signature for Diffie-Hellman
public keys without using a one-way function,"
Electronics Letters, vol. 33, pp. 125-126, Jan 16
1997.
[24] Q. Huynh-Thu and M. Ghanbari, "Scope of
validity of PSNR in image/video quality
assessment," Electronics Letters, vol. 44, pp.
800-U35, Jun 19 2008.
[25] D. H. Brainard, Bayesian approaches to color
vision. Cambridge: MA: MIT Press., 2009.
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：吳帆 計畫編號：99-2622-E-194-004-CC3 
計畫名稱：牙齒比色系統與其商業模式的建置 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 1 1 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 45 45 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 2 2 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
