 1 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫  ■成果報告    
□期中進度報告 
 
採用困難微影圖案的離線模擬與具設計意識的缺陷檢測來達成次波
長量產可行性設計 (I)  
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 99 － 2221 － E － 007  － 120  － 
執行期間： 99  年 08 月 01 日至 100 年 07 月 31  日 
 
執行機構及系所：清華大學資訊工程學系 
 
計畫主持人：張克正 副教授 
共同主持人：唐經洲 教授 
計畫參與人員：李翊銘、廖啟揚 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  ■完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、列管計畫
及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          ■涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，■一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
 
中   華   民   國  100  年  10  月   31 日 
 
 3 
1. 前言與摘要 (Abstract): 
本計劃由三年內容(2010—2013)被國科會縮為一年(2010—2011)。我們採用困難微影圖案的離線模擬
與具設計意識的缺陷檢測來達成次波長量產可行性設計。隨著製程不斷的演進，進入了次微米 
(sub-micron) 的時代，製程中的許多步驟都可能會有製程變動，如光學微影 (Lithography)、化學蝕
刻研磨 (CMP)、參雜濃度 (Doping)…等，這些因素都可能導致產品良率不佳以及效能低落，為了提高
VLSI SoC、analog、以及 RF 電路的良率，奈米等級的製程變動也需要進一步被分析以及模型化。本
計劃縮為一年，我們提出了針對類比電路 (Analog circuit) 以及射頻電路 (RF circuit) 的輔助設
計軟體，我們稱之為 YARLO，其主要目的是要提升整體電路設計流程的效率以及提高產品良率。YARLO
提供設計者在設計的初期就能快速得到元件的變異預測、佈局抵抗變異的效果、寄生電容對變異的影
響，能夠快速掌握這些資訊並進一步預測良率，將可避免面臨需要重新調整尺寸或重新設計的情況。
我們發表一篇 sci 期刊論文，一篇國際會議論文，一篇國內會議論文，台積電先期技術移轉金台幣
136,200。我們也在 CIC 下線 SAR ADC，裡面包含電容矩陣，成功下線與量測 (DNL 與 INL 量測，均在
0.5 LSB 以下)。目的在於利用特殊布局方式，來研究排列對於類比數位轉換器效能之影響。 
 
關鍵字: 製程變異、SAR ADC、次波長製程、量產可行性設計、類比數位轉換器、SPICE、傳輸線、電
感電容電阻、AIMS、設計自動化。 
 
英文摘要 (Abstract): We have successfully taped out and measured our SAR ADC (DNL/INL below 
0.5 LSB) because of the kind support of NSC and CIC through NSC Project 99-2221-E-007-120 with 
title “Subwavelength Design Manufacturing through Off-Line Pre-Simulations of Litho Difficult 
Patterns and Design Aware Defect Inspections.” The performance and application of analog and RF 
circuits on silicon depend on the subwavelength critical matching of ratioed active and passive 
devices. Physical CMOS layout designs to overcome the random statistical fluctuations, spatial 
process variation, diffusion interactions, temperature and stress gradients require the layouts to be 
done strictly following matching techniques in both the placement and routing of ratioed devices. The 
design of layouts with precision matching techniques is a tedious task and the most time consuming 
process in the analog and design cycle. Availability of intelligent layout software tools can help build 
and thoroughly check for yield-enhanced analog and RF design for intelligent active radar microwave 
systems. 
 
Keywords: Process variation、SAR ADC、Subwavelength process 、DFM 、 analog-to-digital 
converter 、SPICE、Transmission Line、RLC、AIMS、Design Automation。 
 5 
顆電容式 DAC 做為 sample & hold 之取樣儲存與數位類比轉換。而一顆 sar adc 之性能好壞，功率
消耗大小，很大程度正取決於這個電容式 dac 的設計，電容設計的小，功率會小，但卻容易因為 mismatch 
導致 DNL/INL 變差，而電容變大，功率卻會上升。換言之，如果可以一定程度的考慮並模型化製程變
異所帶來的影響，我們就可以再降低電容值得同時經過這次的實驗，我們實際發現了，當電容排列不
同時，的確會對製程變異有所影響。在實際 DNL 與 INL 量測，我們 10 位元每秒 1.25M 取樣改進到均
在 0.5 LSB 以下。半導體製程技術的演進，次波長製程所照成的製程變動越來越嚴重。類比與射頻電
路佈局工程師在佈局設計上為了有效地減少元件的不匹配以提升電路的效能跟良率，需要考量元件的
Floor-plan、Power、Routing 等等。而多數類比電路像是類比數位/數位類比轉換器或濾波器等等，
其性能都依賴於準確的電容比值。對於要求準確的元件匹配與電容比值，佈局工程師大都會使用多顆
元件並聯取代單一顆大元件並考慮繞線引起的寄生效應，以優化匹配與比值。類比與射頻電路布局設
計者在元件匹配布局的排列方式優化匹配與比值的主要規則，分別為一致性(coincidence)、對稱性
(symmetry)、分散性(dispersion)、緊密性(compactness)。COMMON CENTROID 受限於電路設計，有時
在排列元件時，並不能完全符合這四條規則，因此我們提出另外一種匹配的方法來幫助設計者能更有
效率且更準確的完成匹配的布局。 
 
3. 文獻探討： 
半導體製程技術的演進，次波長製程所造成的製程變動越來越嚴重。類比與射頻電路佈局工程師
在佈局設計上為了有效地減少元件的不匹配以提升電路的效能跟良率，需要考量元件的Floor-plan、
Power、Routing…等等。而多數類比電路像是類比數位/數位類比轉換器或濾波器等等，其性能都依賴
於準確的電容比值。對於要求準確的元件匹配與電容比值，佈局工程師大都會使用多顆元件並聯取代
單一顆大元件並考慮繞線引起的寄生效應，以優化匹配與比值。類比與射頻電路布局設計者在元件匹
配布局的排列方式優化匹配與比值的主要規則，分別為一致性 (coincidence)、對稱性 (symmetry)、
分散性 (dispersion)、緊密性 (compactness)。COMMON CENTROID受限於電路設計，有時在排列元件
時，並不能完全符合這四條規則，因此我們提出另外一種匹配的方法來幫助設計者能更有效率且更準
確的完成匹配的布局。我們探討的主題是電容的製程變異的空間相關性以及其所帶來的影響，而本設
計之連續漸進式電荷再分配之類比數位轉換器，其中需要一顆電容式DAC做為sample & hold之取樣儲
存與數位類比轉換。而一顆sar adc之性能好壞，功率消耗大小，很大程度正取決於這個電容式dac的
設計，電容設計的小，功率會小，但卻容易因為mismatch導致DNL/INL變差，而電容變大，功率卻會上
升。換言之，如果可以一定程度的考慮並模型化製程變異所帶來的影響，我們就可以再降低電容值得
同時，避免製程變異所帶來的負面影響。因此我們挑sar adc作為我們測試的對象。 
 This work [4] [6] 
Sample rate/bit 1.25MS/sec@10bit 400KS/sec@8bit 137KS/sec@10bit 
Technology CMOS 180nm CMOS 180nm CMOS 180nm 
SNDR 52.4dB 45.77 53.8 
 7 
本計畫電路之架構如下，包含以下區塊： 
 
 
其中連續漸進式演算法參考[1]，雖然這種演算法只適用於全差動架構，但跟以往傳統架構之演算法最
大不同是，他的 DAC 可以減少一個 bit，而由於 binary weighted 本身電容之大小成指數增加，在 10bit
時減少一個 bit 可以足足減少 512 個單位電容，這對於面積會有很大的節省。本設計以 DFF 實現此一
演算法。電路分為： 
1. 連續漸進相位產生： 
此以部分之電路主要在告訴電路現在比較到哪一個 bit 了，從 msb 開始比到 lsb，而當比較完成時輸出
eoc 讓輸出高電位表示完成轉換。 
 
 
 9 
 
根據上面的結論，我們可以再進一步根據上面的結果開發一套考慮空間相關性的簡單電容排列分析軟
體針對不同排列的電容打分數，以下是我們所提出電容設計模擬流程。 
 
 
接著使用 matlab 套入所統計到的 spatial correlation，我們可以去分析看看，考慮了 spatial correlation 之
可能模擬性能，以 dac 來說，我們可能最在乎的是其 DNL/INL 的表現。我們可以帶入一個製程變異的
梯度去產生考慮空間相關性所產生的相關係數矩陣。儘管製程變異是很重要的議題，但同時我們也應
該考慮寄生效應所可能帶來的影響。其中，我們認為寄生效應跟製程變異之間應該是要有個 trade off
的，如下圖的一個關係，下圖表示寄生效應跟製程便易誤差的取捨。 
 11 
 
 
這邊我們嘗試建立三個舉電容矩陣，由於我們所採用的架構是全差動架構，故我們將電容拆成兩
個 38X18，這樣比較利於建立一個正方形的佈局。下面三個電容矩陣排列完全一樣： 但隨著大小不同，
mismatch 跟寄生效應都會有所不同。下列電容排列中 A 為間距 9.3um 之電容，B 為間距 5.8um ，C 為
間距 3.9um。雖然電容排列製程變異很重要，但電容跟電容之間的寄生效應同要重要。因此下列的分
析中我們也會考慮電容的寄生效應。我們設計了三個電容矩陣,A,B 以及 C，分別比較。 
 
 
而接下來，我們針對得到的相關係數，去隨機產生幾組符合這個相關係數的電容mismatch組合，去netlist
修改成變異後的電容，再套入 pex 後抽取的寄生效應，去跑看看 spectre，來看看個個電容的表現為何。
下列圖中，紅色為 presim的 dnl/inl，藍色為考慮寄生以及我們試圖量化的mismatch去分析看看的 dnl/inl。 
 13
 
研究項目應用範圍 
1. Analog circuit design 
2. RF circuit design 
3. Passive device optimization 
4. Circuit yield enhancement 
主要創新技術 
1. Quick spice-like Monte Carlo simulation 
2. 在 Monte Carlo 模擬加入 Layout 的影響分析。 
3. Pre-routing parasitic prediction 
4. 幫助設計者方便使用製程廠所提供的變異資訊 
計畫成果 
1. 國內會議論文發表: K.J. Chang et al., “Promising TRIZ-Based Systematic Innovation 
Solutions for Scaled Nanometer Semiconductor Manufacturing,” in Proceedings of 2011 
Society of Systematic Innovation Workshop, Changhua, Taiwan, January 2011. 
2. 國際會議論文發表: K.J. Chang et al., “Yield-Aware Analog and RF Layout Optimization 
for Quick Analog Prototyping in Nanometer Nodes,” in Proceedings of 2011 Asia-Pacific 
Workshop on Fundamentals and Applications of Advanced Semiconductor Devices, Daejeon, 
Korea, June 2011. 
3. 台積公司產學合作研究合約，負責執行次波長量產可行性設計計畫，包含研究經費、先期技術
移轉金、學校管理費及人員薪資等總計新台幣 908,000 元，先期技術移轉金新台幣 136,200。 
 
Die photo of our SAR ADC is shown above. . 
本計劃縮為一年，我們提出了針對類比電路 (Analog circuit) 以及射頻電路 (RF circuit) 的輔助
設計軟體，我們稱之為 YARLO，其主要目的是要提升整體電路設計流程的效率以及提高產品良率。我
們發表一篇 sci 期刊論文，一篇國際會議論文，一篇國內會議論文，台積電先期技術移轉金台幣
136,200。我們也在 CIC 下線 SAR ADC，裡面包含電容矩陣，成功下線與量測 (DNL 與 INL 量測，均在
0.5 LSB 以下)。 
 
 15
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
█  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明：本計劃由三年內容(2010—2013)被國科會縮為一年(2010—2011)。我們採用困難微影
圖案的離線模擬與具設計意識的缺陷檢測來達成次波長量產可行性設計。隨著製程不斷的演
進，進入了次微米 (sub-micron) 的時代，製程中的許多步驟都可能會有製程變動，如光學
微影 (Lithography)、化學蝕刻研磨 (CMP)、參雜濃度 (Doping)…等，這些因素都可能導致
產品良率不佳以及效能低落，為了提高 VLSI SoC、analog、以及 RF 電路的良率，奈米等級
的製程變動也需要進一步被分析以及模型化。本計劃縮為一年，我們提出了針對類比電路 
(Analog circuit) 以及射頻電路 (RF circuit) 的輔助設計軟體，我們稱之為 YARLO，其主
要目的是要提升整體電路設計流程的效率以及提高產品良率。我們發表一篇 sci 期刊論文，
一篇國際會議論文，一篇國內會議論文，台積電先期技術移轉金台幣 136,200。我們也在 CIC
下線 SAR ADC，裡面包含電容矩陣，成功下線與量測 (DNL 與 INL 量測，均在 0.5 LSB 以下)。 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：█已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 █申請中 □無 
技轉：█已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
微影製程為積體電路製造的重要技術，對電路密度與良率的持續提升極為關鍵。計畫主持人
在這方面具有相當的業界與學界研究經驗。本計畫已經與台積公司(TSMC)合作，專注於整合
設計至製造分析及良率改善 (Design-to-Manufacturing) 的電子設計自動化 (electronic 
design automation, EDA)。半導體等高科技產業在製造過程中，需要許多設計方面的分析資
料。國立清華大學資訊工程所運用其特殊分析功能，將製造過程的資料整合成自動化分析平
台，提供高科技廠從設計結合製造數據的分析自動化平台，導入快速且攻能強大的自動化分
析工具，創造雙贏的利基市場。本計畫主要是應用半導體的領域知識，DFM，及資料庫等技術
發展出的智慧型軟體平台。 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                 日期： 100  年 10  月 31  日 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                日期： 100  年 10  月 31 日 
                                
一、參加會議經過: Our defect simulation and yield enhancement software and the corresponding paper 
was invited to be presented in a very famous Asia-Pacific Workshop on Fundamentals and Applications 
of Advanced Semiconductor Devices (AWAD) conference that has been held in Japan and Korea annually 
in the past twelve years. In the four-day conference in Daejeon, Korea, there were more than 100 
audiences and there were many important papers on new devices, new processes, and new designs. 
二、與會心得: The audience liked our idea which used defect simulation based method to help 
designers increase the yield. 
三、考察參觀活動: Daejeon is a large Korea city with a nice museum where there were important 
historical items displayed. The conference organizers  
四、建議: There were many papers in AWAD 2011 regarding new devices such as HKMG and FinFET. Taiwan 
academia and industry, e.g. TSMC and UMC, should work hard to catch up. 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容: The nicely printed 2011 AWAD proceedings hardcopy is taken back to Taiwan by 
me for my colleagues and my students. 
 
 
計畫編號 NSC 99 － 2221 － E － 007  － 120  － 
計畫名稱 採用困難微影圖案的離線模擬與具設計意識的缺陷檢測來達成次波長
量產可行性設計 (I) 
出國人員
姓名 張克正 
服務機構
及職稱 
清華大學資訊工程學系 
會議時間 
100 年 06 月 28
日至 
100 年 07 月 02
日 
會議地點 
韓國 
會議名稱 
(中文) 
(英文)  2011 Asia-Pacific Workshop on Fundamentals and Applications of Advanced Semiconductor 
Devices (AWAD) 
發表論文題
目 
(中文)  
(英文) Yield-Aware Analog and RF Layout Optimization for Quick Analog Prototyping 
in Nanometer Nodes 
mismatches, noise, etc., in tight dimensions with varying 
uncertainties. Shown in Figure 4 are a current mirror and a 
differential pair of matching MOSFETs [7]. Both require 
that M1 matches M2 statistically for high product yield.  
 
Figure 4.  Two important design examples that require matching.  
For the yield improvement of either design in Figure 4, 
the layouts must insure that devices M1 and M2 be 
matched even with the presence of spatial correlation, also 
known as process gradient. We provide designers with 
design aid software YARLO, i.e. yield-aware analog and 
RF layout optimization, for matching transistors and 
passive devices in nanometer nodes. 
More and more foundry design guides and industrial 
publications have focused on their silicon examples and 
counter examples when they refer to the Pelgrom mismatch 
variation model [5][6]. After our designs of various chips 
using foundries’ process design kits (PDKs) [1][3][7][8][9], 
we believe analog and RF design aid software is essential 
to satisfactorily model mismatch in a manner helpful to the 
designers.  
The local variation of parameters such as on-chip 
capacitance has been predicted by Pelgrom to have area 
dependency, i.e. σ mismatch being inversely proportional 
to the square root of the on-chip capacitance area, as shown 
in Figure 5. 
 
Figure 5.    Monte Carlo runs of capacitance mismatch based on PDKs. 
Using Figure 5, we can begin to introduce the design 
needs that require knowledge of unit capacitors in advance 
in the range of 35, 45, and 55 fF, for the state-of-the-art 
VLSI SoC that include data converters, switch capacitors, 
and RF. The largest capacitor shown as the rightmost 
normal distribution in Figure 5 is derived from the foundry 
PDK design guide with Monte Carlo redrawing. It has the 
smallest mismatch among the three cap values. The 
capacitors in Figure 5 may or may not depend on the 
process gradient, also known as spatial correlation, which is 
also depending on the foundry and the node. 
In essence, the following are the four factors that we 
need to consider in various analog and RF design stages 
which can affect the performance and hence the yield of the 
circuits to be manufactured: 
 Perimeter-area ratio of the capacitor. 
 The proximity environment of the capacitor. 
 The nanometer on-chip process gradient effect. 
 The routing parasitic. 
 
Figure 6.  Interdigitation or common-centroid layout for high yield. 
The two Figure 6 layouts use decomposition and re-
assembly of capacitors to overcome the effect of process 
variation, i.e. it uses either interdigitation or common-
centroid to achieve the device matching [3] to get high yield. 
So, the physical layouts often need to be modified, although 
it will delay the time to market and increase the design costs. 
If more information such as process variation and routing 
parasitic can be considered in simulation in the early stage 
of design, the designers can get trustworthy simulation 
results and find any of the bad performance portions of the 
circuit earlier in the pre-layout simulation.  
II. PREVIOUS WORK 
More than twenty years have passed since Pelgrom 
published his MOS transistor matching model [6]. Now that 
the MOS structure, process, and material used in the state-
of-the-art nanometer FEOL and BEOL are very different 
from that in the MOS used by Pelgrom in his 1989 paper, 
the matching of MOS FEOL or BEOL in the nanometer 
nodes can still refer to Pelgrom’s model. More and more 
design aids have been provided by CMOS foundries to 
overcome the yield loss due to process gradient. The 
process design kits (PDKs), as shown in Figure 5, and the 
CBCM based process variation data [2][8] are two 
examples. 
Representative but simple statistic variation data of on-
chip capacitors can be shown as the data in Figure 5, where 
nanometer PDK statistic capacitor mismatch is depicted as 
function of area.  
III. YARLO SIMULATION METHOD 
YARLO implements efficient Monte Carlo based 
SPICE-like circuit-level simulations. It combines both the 
physical layout and the process gradient into consideration. 
The pre-layout simulation result can be different from the 
real post-layout circuit by more than 10%. The YARLO 
yield-aware simulation steps consist of three levels of 
complexity as shown in Figure 7. 
      
A B B A
B A A B
B A A B
A B B A
 
 (a) (b) 
adjacent devices can have more similar variation, while the 
far-away device may have bigger device mismatches.  
 
Figure 13.  (a) The bigger distance the smaller mismatch. (b) The 
mismatch may have low dependency on the distance. 
Depending on the nodes and the foundries, it is possible 
that designers or PDKs may not find any spatial correlation 
from the random combination of capacitor array as shown in 
Fig.11. In other words, the process variations may dominate 
the spatial correlation. YARLO Level-1 runs use the 
contributions of all variations, which are foundry dependent. 
With layout optimization method proposed on Level-0 
and Level-1, YARLO identifies parasitic effect simulations 
[4] as Level-2 in Figure 14 for designers to perform a 
comprehensive set of Monte Carlo simulations to optimize 
the chip product yield that may be strongly dependent on 
the parasitic effects as well as on the process variations. 
 
YARLO
Level‐2
Simulation
CAP array‐1
CAP array‐2
CAP array‐3
DNL/INL
Spec.
Yield
Yield
Yield
Routing
Skill
Parasitic
parameter
79% 
Yield
82% 
Yield
85% 
Yield
 
Figure 14.  Input and output of Level-2 simulations. 
YARLO Level-2 provides a pre-routing estimation 
mechanism that predicts the routing parasitic effects, as 
shown in Figure 15, before any real routing. 
 
Figure 15.  (a) Simple routing path (b) Complex routing path 
Designers can take the routing parasitic into account 
when doing simulation to make sure whether the result is 
good enough or not. By doing so we can avoid encountering 
the situation that we find the performance doesn’t reach the 
goal until we have done the post-simulation. 
By using the information of routing layouts such as 
width, length, spacing and the positions of the capacitors, 
we can calculate the routing parasitic effects using Silvaco 
Clever. Generally speaking, there are 0.2 to 0.3 femtofarad 
per micron for the parasitic capacitance that can introduce 
delays to the red lines in Figure 15. Base on this Level-2 
simulation data, YARLO uses the routing parasitic 
capacitance for mismatching and yield prediction, as shown 
in Figure 14. In this way, the simulation results will 
become closer to that of post-layout SPICE or Spectre [11] 
simulations. 
In order to reduce the variation of the capacitor on chip, 
the routing path may become more complex and need more 
routing area as shown in Fig.15. In using smaller capacitor 
units, as shown in Figure 16, parasitic effects will become 
more serious at the level of 5-10% of the designed capacitor 
because of the routing complexity.  
 
Figure 16.  The relationship between segmentation and variation. 
Prominent parasitic effects should be avoid because they 
can degrade performance and analog/RF resolution of 
circuit products. This trade-off shown in Figure 16 between 
mismatch and routing parasitic is useful for the designer 
need to adjust the physical layout or even the whole circuit 
for quick prototyping. If the designers can have more 
information at layout placement design stage, they may 
reduce the cycle of design. 
IV. EXPERIMENT RESULTS 
With multi-core CPUs, both YARLO and SPICE have 
become faster recently. For each YARLO’s Level-0, Level-
1, or Level-2 simulation run for our recent DAC (Digital to 
Analog Converter) designs, respectively, the CPU time 
spent is shown in Table I for SPICE users to compare.  
TABLE I.  YARLO SPEED COMPARED WITH SPICE. 
CPU time spent YARLO 
DNL/INL 
SPICE 
DNL/INL 
10 bit DAC 30 sec. 450 sec. 
12 bit DAC 50 sec. 900 sec. 
14 bit DAC 70 sec. 1600 sec. 
 
YARLO performance scales linearly with the 
complexity of the design while SPICE CPU time grows 
exponentially. Besides the 4x4 capacitor matrix shown in 
Figures 8, 11, and 15, we have tested YARLO on much 
larger matrix for 12-bit and 14-bit analog designs. As 
shown in Figure 17, YARLO can simulate the yield for 
various 6x6 capacitance matrix choices for 5-bit DACs, 
where “D” indicates a dummy capacitor unit. 
       
(a) Matrix 1                           (b) Matrix 2 
論文被接受發表之大會證明文件 
 
From: hdlee@cnu.ac.kr [mailto:hdlee@cnu.ac.kr]  
Sent: Monday, May 02, 2011 8:04 AM 
To: kchang@cs.nthu.edu.tw 
Cc: kelvin.doong@gmail.com 
Subject: Re: Invitation for Invited Speaker at AWAD 2011 
  
 
Dear Prof. Chang, 
 
Thank you very much for accepting the invitation. 
It will be thankful if you send 100~300 words abstract in 
this week. 
  
Thanks again and looking forward to meeting you 
at AWAD 2011. 
 
Best regards, 
 
Hi-Deok  
  
------------------------------- 
[ Original Message ]  
------------------------------ 
Sender : KJ Chang < kchang@cs.nthu.edu.tw > 
To : hdlee@cnu.ac.kr 
Date : 2011-05-01 20:59:48 
S u b j e c t : RE: Invitation for Invited Speaker 
at AWAD 2011 
Dear Prof. Lee, 
  
My name is Keh-Jeng Chang, an associate professor in the 
Department of Computer Science and College of Electrical 
Engineering and Computer Science of National Tsing Hua 
University, Hsinchu City, Taiwan. We feel grateful to be 
able to give a talk on our research in AWAD 2001 next 
month. I will be responsible for the talk and the final paper 
version. If there is anything else, please feel free to contact 
me through my email or my office phone +886-
35731214 (direct voice mailbox). Our talk and paper title is: 
=========================== 
Yield-aware Analog and RF Layout Optimization for Quick 
Analog Prototyping in Nanometer Nodes. 
=========================== 
Authors: Keh-Jeng Chang and Kelvin Y.Y. Doong 
Affiliation: College of Electrical Engineering and Computer 
Science, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan 
  
Sincerely yours, 
Keh-Jeng (KJ) Chang 
Department of Computer Science 
National Tsing Hua University 
Hsinchu City, Taiwan 300 
kchang@cs.nthu.edu.tw 
+886-35731214 (direct voice mailbox) 
 
--------------------------------------
- [ Original Message ]  
--------------------------------------
  
Sender : hdlee@cnu.ac.kr  
To : kchang@cs.nthu.edu.tw  
Date : 2011-03-09 20:01:09  
S u b j e c t : Invitation for Invited Speaker at AWAD 2011  
 
Hello,  
 
This is Hi-Deok from Chungnam National University, 
Korea. (ICMTS Committee member)  
 
How are you doing? Are you going to attend ICMTS 
2011 ?  
 
I'd like to invite you as an Invited speaker to present your 
research  
results at the 2011 Asia-Pacific Workshop on Fundamentals 
and Applications  
of Advanced Semiconuctor Devices (AWAD 2011), 
(Daejeon, Korea, June  
29~July 1), which will be hosted by The Institute of 
Electronics,  
Information and Communication Engineers (IEICE) of 
Japan and The  
Instituteof Electronics Engineers of Korea (IEEK).  
(Website : http://astl.hongik.ac.kr/awad2011/home.html)  
 
The number of attendees is 100~150 which is similar to or 
a little bigger  
than ICMTS.  
 
It wil be a good chance for you to meet many excellent 
Korean and Japanese  
researchers in semiconductor area.  
As the conference will be held in my home town, Daejeon, 
it will be a good  
chance for you to visit here.  
The excursion program is very good.  
 
Please let me know at your earliest convenience the title of 
your talk.  
I am looking forward to your positive reply and the 
opportunity seeing you  
at the meeting.  
 
Thanks.  
 
Warm regards,  
 
Hi-Deok  
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：張克正 計畫編號：99-2221-E-007-120- 
計畫名稱：採用困難微影圖案的離線模擬與具設計意識的缺陷檢測來達成次波長量產可行性設計(I)
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 1 1 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 136 150 98% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 1 1 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
