 2
Radio Service) 或是 3G 技術來上網，讓使
用者可以在任何時間和地點上網取得所需
的資訊。此外，PDA 亦為普遍的行動裝置
之一，PDA 能夠隨身記錄訊息並且查詢所
需的資料，它還可以透過無線裝置連接網
路。由上述資訊可知，利用行動裝置上網
查詢資訊將會愈來愈普及，然而使用行動
裝置瀏覽網頁仍舊存在許多限制，例如：
網頁的視覺顯示、行動裝置硬體執行能力
和人機操作介面等等[1]，因此本計劃目的
在於研究如何給予行動裝置瀏覽網頁使用
者簡單明瞭，讓使用者能夠快速掌握重要
訊息的畫面的瀏覽畫面。 
 
三、研究目的 
使用行動裝置瀏覽未經編排整理的
網面，而使得瀏覽畫面複雜難懂，較不易
掌握所須要的資訊如圖 1(a)與圖 1(b)，其
為同一個網頁分別顯示於個人電腦與
PDA 上的執行結果，很明顯的，在圖 1(b)
中，網頁內的文字偏右，造成視覺上網頁
內容瀏覽的不便，由此可知，礙於行動裝
置畫面大小和排版等問題，不對網頁進行
規劃處理，網頁內容將無法正確呈現於行
動裝置上。所以對於行動裝置所觀看的網
頁，也必須要有特別的設計，這樣才能讓
行動裝置正常顯示網頁的資訊目前有一些
網站除了提供個人電腦瀏覽的版本，亦特
別為行動裝置設計其行動版的網頁，如
Google[11]，圖 2: Google 網站的二種網頁
版面(a)為 Google 的個人電腦瀏覽版面，
而圖 2: Google 網站的二種網頁版面(b)則
是專為行動裝置設計的 Google 版面，然而
並非每一個網站都採用 Google 的設計方
式，其主要原因為目前利用行動裝置上網
的人口並不是很多，以及設計行動網站需
花費額外的成本，所以並沒有很多網站有
行動裝置專用的版本，有鑑於此，本研究
提出了一個專供行動裝置使用的網頁處理
系統，其可使經過處理重新組合後的網頁
能正確呈現於行動裝置之上。 
 
(a) (b) 
圖1:同一個網頁分別顯示的執行結果 
(a)在個人電腦上顯示正常 
(b)在PDA上網頁內的文字偏右 
 
 
(a) (b) 
圖2: Google網站的二種網頁版面 
(a)個人電腦瀏覽版面 
(b)行動裝置瀏覽版面 
 
四、文獻探討 
目前的相關研究中，微軟亞洲研究院
[16]資深研究員馬維英先生，他的團隊提
出許多方法來處理多媒體檔案，使其能在
行動裝置上正常呈現，如網頁內容區塊 
(Content Block)[2] 的概念，將網頁分解成
各個區塊，並且重新組織成適合在行動裝
置上瀏覽的內容[1][2]，在馬維英的另一個
研究中，其將網頁轉成圖片，搭配目錄內
容 (Table Of Content, TOC) [2]的方法來
顯示在行動裝置上，使用者可以透過圖片
目錄區塊的點選，來得到適合行動裝置螢
幕大小的網頁內容[1][2]。此外，圖片在行
動裝置的呈現亦為行動內容處理的重要議
題，在圖片上透過演算法來尋找圖片的重
要部份(像是人臉或是文字等)，並且將重
要部份切割成適當大小來呈現，或是在畫
面上做視覺化的移動等[3]，然而本研究的
主要範疇仍舊針對網頁內容的轉換以及行
 4
故轉成 XHTML 文件可以讓區塊模組高效
率的搜尋到網頁內指定區塊內容，且加速
內容重組的效能，此外 XHTML 文件具有
資料結構的特性，方便於日後資料存取、
處理、交換和轉換等進階用途。 
由於網頁裡面許多的連結都是使用
相對路徑，例如圖片或是檔案連結等，而
轉換完成的 XHTML 文件將會尋找不到該
檔案裡的資料路徑，所以 XHTML 模組會
將網頁裡的相對路徑轉換成絕對路徑，讓
該 XHTML 文件不管在哪一台電腦上，只
要透過網路瀏覽都能夠直接存取檔案內所
連結的資料內容。 
 
5-3 區塊模組 
網頁是由文字、圖片、影片等多種物
件所組合而成，而這些物件是用語法來描
述，在此即可把描述物件的每一段語法當
作成區塊 [2]。如圖 4:XHTML 文件裡所呈
現區塊內容為 YAHOO 台灣首頁[13]透過
本系統所轉好的XHTML文件，此XHTML
文件可以清楚看出各個區塊的資訊，在 B1
區塊中包含 B1-1 區塊、B1-2 區塊、B1-3
區塊和 B1-4 區塊，而 B1-3 區塊又包含了
B1-3-1 區塊、B1-3-2 區塊和 B1-3-3 區塊，
由此可知，母區塊中是包含許多的子區
塊，所以在此採用深度優先搜尋法(Depth 
First Search, DFS)[9] 來搜尋所有的區
塊，如圖 5: 利用深度優先搜尋法搜尋區
塊 
所示，深度優先搜尋法會先由 B1 區
塊當起點，接著搜尋到 B1-1 和 B1-2，當
搜尋到 B1-3 時會向下搜尋到 B1-3-1、
B1-3-2、B1-3-3，最後是搜尋到 B1-4。使
用此搜尋法的優點，是執行時只需要較少
的記憶體，且能以較少的搜尋代價來找出
區塊，所以區塊模組的主要功能，就是將
XHTML 文件中的區塊全部分解出來，最
後提供後端模組處理。 
 
 
圖4:XHTML文件裡所呈現區塊內容 
   
 
圖5: 利用深度優先搜尋法搜尋區塊 
 
5-4. 處理模組 
處理模組可針對使用者的使用習慣，設
定如何處理分解出的區塊，例如過濾網頁
的廣告、文字和圖片等。以過濾網頁的廣
告為例，系統會先建立一個資料庫，資料
庫中會加入廣告的相關文字或是廣告網站
的連結網頁等，而使用者也可以在瀏覽網
頁時自行加入廣告相關資訊在資料庫中，
當區塊模組分解出區塊後，處理模組會對
每一個區塊做處理，當處理的區塊內容包
含資料庫中的資料時，最後組合區塊將不
會對此區塊做組合。另外含有版權 (例如
Copyright 等字樣 ) 等不重要資訊的區
塊，也可以在此先搜尋出來，在組合時將
這些不重要的區塊排在最後面，讓使用者
在讀取網頁時能馬上讀取到重要的資訊
[1]，並且瀏覽時間和減少移動捲軸使用
率。除了上敘功能，區塊裡的連結也會做
下載建議[5][6][14][15][17]的處理，當使用
 6
6-2. 深度優先搜尋法 (Depth First 
Search, DFS) 
區塊模組使用深度優先搜尋法[13]來
尋找區塊，如圖 5: 利用深度優先搜尋法
搜尋區塊所示，深度優先搜尋法是先對搜
尋樹搜尋到最深一層的節點，當搜尋遇到
終節點時，搜尋才會回到上一層並對下一
個層級的節點搜尋。深度優先搜尋法是使
用遞迴演算法來搜尋區塊，當區塊裡還有
區塊時，就會呼叫遞迴函數本身，直到區
塊裡沒有區塊才停止。 
 
6-3. 決策樹分析下載建議 
使用無線網路會有許多因素造成傳送
檔案的不穩定，在此找出影響傳輸的因
素，而各個影響傳輸因素的原因如表 1，
影響傳輸的因素可視為決策分析的屬性，
其中下載是否成功為決策分析的目標，如
表 2 為本研究部分的樣本資料，依據使用
者的屬性和樣本資料可以計算出 Entropy
和 Information Gain，並可建立出決策樹如
圖 11，找出重要的屬性來做決策分析 [5] 
[6][14][15][17] ， 在 此 Entropy 及
Information Gain 公式分別為： 
2 2( ) log logEntropy S P P P P+ + − −= − −    (1) 
 
( )
| |( , ) ( ) ( )       
| |
(2)VV values A V
SGain S A Entropy S Entropy S
S∈
= −∑  
 
表 1  決策樹中採用屬性之說明 
 
 
 
 
 
 
表 2  建構決策樹之樣本資料表 
 
 
在屬性表中每一種屬性可分正、負樣
本資料，Entropy 的公式可以計算出每一種
屬性和樣本資料的 Entropy 值，接著利用
求出的 Entropy 值計算出各個屬性的
Information Gain ， 求 出 各 個 屬 性 的
Information Gain 後將 Information Gain 裡
最大屬性訂為決策樹的樹根，樹根之後的
依照前述方法來計算出新的樹根，以此類
推讓決策樹繼續往下發展，當分類出來的
屬性已經完全是正的樣本資料或是負的樣
本資料時，代表該分支的工作停止，此時
就可以知道是否適合下載。 
 
圖 9:利用決策樹提供下載建議 
 
 
 8
"Examining Table Variations on Small 
Screen Devices," in Proceedings of The 
2004 IEEE/WIC/ACM International 
Conference on Web Intelligence, 
pp.652-655, 2004. 
[11] 台 灣 Google 網 站 , 
http://www.google.com/intl /zh-TW/ 
[12] 台 灣 MSN 網 站 , 
http://www.msn.com.tw/ 
[13] 台 灣 YAHOO 網 站 , 
http://tw.yahoo.com/ 
[14]  鄭淑真, 林彥廷, 黃悅民, "智慧型
行動裝置之網路瀏覽下載建議, " 第十屆
人工智慧與應用研討會論文集, 2005. 
[15]  鄭淑真, 蘇志偉, "人工智慧於數位
行動學習之應用, " 資訊科學應用期刊, 
第一卷, 第一期, 第 57-67 頁, 2005. 
[16] 微 軟 亞 洲 研 究 院 , 
http://research.microsoft.com/ asia/ 
[17] 鄭淑真、蘇志偉、郭彥宏、林彥廷、
黃悅民，“以行動裝置為基礎的智慧型網
頁處理系統＂，2006 數位生活科技研討會, 
2006. 
[18] 鄭淑真、蔡煒志，“3G 手機網頁重組
系統＂， 2006 數位教學暨資訊實務研討
會, 2006. 
 
 
 
拓寬到了全球領域，他們不僅從世界各個角落招收學生，而且把自己的學生送往海外，還開
設各類課程以應對一個日益聯繫緊密的世界。 
2007 年，美國媒體對全球 100 所著名大學按照全球化的程度列了一個排名表。這份排
名表主要參考了兩種標準。第一個標準以學術為指標，包括教員與研究員的素質、研究成果。
另一個標準採用英國媒體高等教育增刊選大學的標準，如國際教員比例、國際學生比例、論
文被引用比例以及師生比例等。大學圖書館的藏書量也是一個重要的評選指標。在世界前 50
所全球化的大學中，京都大學的排名是 29 名，是一所相當優秀的學校。在此次研討會當中，
我也認識了該校許多來自各地的交換學生，深深覺得一所全球化的大學理當如是。 
在參與會議的三天當中，能與許多相關領域的專家學者共同討論，交換心得，個人覺得
收獲頗豐。對於未來的研究方向，也激發了許多新的看法，拓展了視野，同時也結交了些志
同道合的朋友。 
最後，非常感謝國科會的經費補助，給我這個機會參與此次的會議，讓我收益良多。 
 
三、建議 
 
本人認為要讓更多的國際學者認識台灣，有幾項工作需要政府以及學者共同來努力：第
一，積極爭取主辦國際研討會，此乃展示台灣學術、經濟與民主之最佳時機；第二，政府應
投入更多的資金全力輔助會議的舉行；第三，鼓勵更多的國內學者參與國際會議相互觀摩，
並儘可能補助學生出國參加國際會議，以開拓年輕學生的視野。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
Proceedings of The 20th International Conference on Industrial, Engineering & Other Applications 
of Applied Intelligent Systems (IEA/AIE2007), Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence 4570, 
Springer-Verlag 
 
 
 
 
 
 
本次發表的論文內容如後面所附： 
 
Fig. 1. The system architecture.
Fig. 1 shows the system architecture in this research.. After users select
certain characteristics of leaves on a PDA, the values can be computed through
the Centroid-contour distance, the matching degree is given according to fuzzy
theory and the leaves with the highest points would be found. Finally, the results
are shown to users. In this way, the users knowing little about plants can select
the characteristics by observation and easily find out the answer.
In the following section, we will introduce the quantitative method of the leaf
characteristics, explaining how to calculate the characterics of leaves and pro-
viding different quantitative values. Section 3 will discuss the strategy of search,
explaining how to calculate and grade the quantitative values of all characteris-
tics obtained in Section 2 and taking the highest value as the result of search.
Section 4 is about the experiment and evaluation, introducing the implemen-
tation interface in this research, analyzing and exploring all kinds of data and
results. Finally, we draw a conclusion and propose the future research in Section
5.
2 The Quantitative Method of Characterics
The method for search presented in this paper mainly depends on the char-
acterics of leaves, including leaf shape, leaf Apex, leaf base, leaf margin, leaf
phyllotaxy, leaf vein and leaf size. In this section, we will explain how to take
out the obvious characterics of leaves, individually give them different quantita-
tive values, and provide the data needed in search.
2.1 The Leaf Shape
Among the landscape plants in the color photo album, the author has sorted the
common leaf shapes into the following groups. As shown in Fig. 2:
the Xaxis of the center point and the Xaxis of the edge and between the Yaxis
of the center point and the Yaxis of the edge at θ
◦. By calculating the centroid-
contour distance, we can get the quantitative values of all kinds of leaves, but it
is impossible to obviously differentiate the different degrees with the direct use
of the sum of the centroid-contour distance. Moreover, the sizes of each original
image are not always the same. So in this research we use the square sum of the
centroid-contour distance, which is then divided by the square of the maximum
value of the centroid-contour distance of this leaf. Thus we can differentiate the
difference in the sizes of the centroid-contour distance. Meanwhile, there had
been normal standards serving this comparison.
ShapeSqureDis =
359∑
θ=0
Dis2θ
max(Dis2θ)
(4)
It is designed in this research that these values can be compared with each
other in the degree of similarity, so finally all types are figured out in turn and
accumulated. The ratio of these types to the whole is taken as the quantitative
value and the segmentation of all types is increased.
2.2 The Leaf Apex and the Leaf Base
The method for quantifying the characterics of leaf shapes is used to calculate
the quantitative values of the leaf Apex. What is needed to notice is that the
characterics of the leaf Apex highlighted the shape of the front part of the leaf.
The leaf Apex can be divided into the following types. As shown in Fig. 3-1:
In the calculation of the centroid-contour distance of the leaf Apex in equation 3,
only the upper half (i.e. the threshold of θ is limited to 0◦–180◦) is computed;
on the contrary, the leaf base highlighted the shape of the bottom part of the
leaf, so in the calculation of the leaf base, the threshold of θ in equation 3 is
limited to 180◦–360◦. The leaf base is divided into the following types. As shown
in Fig. 3-2:
Fig. 3. (1)Classification of the leaf apex.(2)Classification of the leaf base.
The living habits of a plant meant the growth condition of the plant. This
research used arbor, shrub, liane and herbage to represent the characteristics of
the living habits of the plant.
For the three characterics, there is no the relation showing the degree of
membership among all varieties and it is not easy to cause incorrect choice in
observation and judgment, so boolean values are adopted to stand for the leaf
vein and the leaf phyllotaxy of all plants.
2.5 The Leaf Size
The leaf size is the range of a common mature leaf, recorded in the database
of the plant. The characteric of the leaf size is given two fields, respectively
storing the minimum and maximum values of the leaf size; while the input item
provided for users is singular value, so the trapezoidal membership function in
fuzzy process is adopted. The vertical axis is the degree of membership and the
horizontal axis is the quantitative value of the leaf size.
3 The Strategy of Search
In Section Two, we illustrated how to get the quantitative values of all charac-
teristics. In this section, we will explain how to grade each characteric of each
plant in the plant database and further work out the highest value that is taken
as the result of search. The three characterics, like the leaf shape, the leaf Apex
and the leaf base are all fuzzified with triangular membership function. This
definition is shown in equation 5:
score =


0 if x < a
x− a
c− a
if x ∈ [a, c]
b− x
b− c
if x ∈ [c, b]
0 if x > b
(5)
In equation 5, c is the quantitative value of the characteristics chosen by
users, and x is the quantitative value of the characteristics of all kinds of plants
in the database. It is set that a = c− 1, b = c+ 1. the fuzzy quantitative values
designed in this research are all within the range of 0–1, so the situation of x < a
and x > b would not appear. Thus the above equation can be simplified as:
equation 6 can be obtained by combining the two situations in equation 5:
score = 1− |c− x| (6)
In equation 6, c is the quantitative values represented by one leaf shape that
users chose from the previous 20 kinds of leaf shapes after actually observing
the leaves; while x is the quantitative values represented by the leaf shapes of
each plant in all plant databases. With this calculation method, we can work
normalized through being divided by the maximum of the total amount of the
ascending and falling. The score of the leaf margin is 1 minus these two differ-
ences. In order to avoid negative score, finally we took the maximum value in
the result and 0. In grading the leaf size, we use triangular membership function.
The definition is shown in equation 8:
score =


0 if x < a
x− a
c− a
if x ∈ [a, c]
1 if x ∈ [c, d]
b− x
b− d
if x ∈ [d, b]
0 if x > b
(8)
In equation 8, c is the minimum value of the attribute of the leaf size; d is
the maximum value of the attribute of the leaf size. In addition, a = c − d−c
2
and b = d + d−c
2
, and x is the x value inputted by users. With equation 9, we
can figure out the score of the leaf size.
Finally, we added up the scores of all characterics. The higher the score is, the
closer to the leaved users observed the characteristics of this plant are. Except
the leaf vein, the leaf phyllotaxy and the peculiar leaf shape, leaf base and leaf
margin, the score would still be given according to the difference in the degrees
of the fuzzy theory even if users chose improper characteristics, which is in more
accord with the situation of actual operation.
4 Experimental Results
4.1 PDA Interface
Fig. 7-1 shows the situation of the implementation in PDA. The classified charac-
teristics of leaves helped users make choices, for example: The alternate, opposite,
imbricate etc. leaf phyllotaxy can be chosen. Here the clicked leaf characteris-
tics would be accompanied by the corresponding pictures or descriptions, which
made users, with observation, easily click the characteristics of plants according
with what they saw. Moreover, the characteristics of plants we let users click
are arranged in the descending order of their measured importance. Thus users
can make choices according to the importance of the characteristics of plants.
After users made choices and started to search, here the characteristics chosen
by them would be calculated. While five pieces of the calculation results with
higher scores would be shown on PDA.
Fig. 7-2 displayed the plants that are searched out with the characterics users
clicked in the above figure. We can see that on the left of the figure are listed the
names of the first five plants with the highest scores and their specific scores. If
feeling like knowing more about the data of this plant, users can choose the plant
they wanted to observe in Fig. 7-2 and then click to look through the detailed
data.
4.3 Analysis of the Accuracy
When examining the accuracy, two kinds of rules are used. The hard rule means
the correct answer must get the highest score, while the soft rule means that the
correct answer must appear among the top 5 highest scores. When users input
the characterics, they can skip any characteric they don’t know the right value.
Certainly, the more characterics values are provided, the higher accuracy can
be obtained. The following figure illustrates the influence of different number of
used characterics on the accuracy.
Fig. 8. The accuracy for different number of used characterics.
In Fig. 8, the horizontal axis shows the number of the used characterics and
the vertical axis stands for the average accuracy (%) of the test results in various
combinations. As we can see in Fig. 8, the accuracy when using 8 characterics
is 90% when hard rule is applied, while the accuracy is 100% when soft rule is
applied. Especially when soft rule is applied, the accuracy is high enough even
only 4 characterics are entered.
According to all the experimental conditions, we can conclude the significance
of characterics in the following order: the leaf Apex, the leaf shape and the leaf
size, and the less important characterics into the leaf parallel, the living habits,
the leaf phyllotaxy and the leaf base. Therefore, we can arrange the order of
these characterics appearing on PDA interface.
5 Conclusions
Based on all kinds of characteristics of leaves, this research constructed a mobile
learning system allowing users to input all the observed attributes of leaves on
PDA without knowing the name of the plant. According to all the experimental
conditions, we can arrange the characterics in the proper order on PDA inter-
face according to their significance. Meanwhile, we successfully improved the
