行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
澎湖地區風力發電預測技術研究及其效益評估
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-346-007-
執行期限：98年8月1日至99年7月31日
主持人：吳元康 博士 國立澎湖科技大學電機工程學系
中文摘要
由於風機技術的進步、成本下降、豐沛的天然資源，以及商業的可行性，風力發電預期將對再生能
源發電目標有著非常重要的貢獻。然而，風力的間歇性將嚴重威脅到電力系統的安全。在澎湖，因
為 10.2MW 的總裝置容量將建置完成，而當地的負載介於 30MW 至 70MW 之間，因此將達高占比風力
系統，而且澎湖是一個獨立自主系統，風力預測的使用對於風力併接的經濟與安全性更顯得重要。
一個適宜的預測模型能夠反應在風速與其它因素變動狀況下的風場動態性能。在此計畫中，五種統
計與人工智慧的方法已經使用做為澎湖地區的短期風力預測，此外，一個基於基因或免疫演算法的
組合預測模型也已經提出。本計畫所使用的大部分模型均考慮氣象變數做為輸入。為了更彈性預測
風力，本計畫已設計一個預測軟體，它的功能包括訓練模型、預測風力時序、萃取合適的歷史數據、
計算預測誤差、利用改良型的 LM 演算法加速預測速度，以及執行以基因或免疫演算法為基準的組
合預測模型。此軟體適合應用於工業及教育界。最後，本計畫分析了所提出預測技術與相關的軟體
對於澎湖柴油機組調度與系統操作的效益，並使用實際澎湖系統參數對此一高占比風力系統進行模
擬。研究的結果指出所提出的方法確實有其實用性。
Abstract
Wind power is expected to contribute significantly to the renewable energy targets owing to advancements
in wind technologies, falling capital costs, abundance of the free resource and commercial viability.
However, wind is intermittent, posing serious threats to power system security. In the island of Penghu,
wind penetration reaches high levels since 10.2MW of wind power are being installed for a demand
varying between 30-70MW. Because it is an autonomous power system, the use of wind power forecasting
is crucial for an economic and secure wind integration. A suitable model can reflect the dynamic
performance of a wind farm under changing wind conditions and many other factors. In this project, five
types of statistical and artificial intelligence methods are utilized to predict short-term wind power in
Penghu. In addition, a novel combination forecasting model by using genetic or immune algorithms is
proposed. Most of these models have considered meteorological information as input variables. In order to
flexibly predict wind power series, a forecasting software is designed. It can be utilized to train forecasting
models, predict wind power, extract proper historical data, compute forecasting residuals, accelerate the
forecasting speed with the modified Levenberg–Marquardt algorithm, and executing combination
forecasts with genetic and immune algorithm method. It is useful for industry and education applications.
Finally, the benefit of the proposed forecasting technology and associated software on the diesel unit
commitment and system operation in Penghu is analyzed. System simulation for the high penetration wind
generation is performed by using actual system parameters. The research results indicate the usefulness of
the proposed algorithm.
I. Introduction
As the penetration of wind energy continues to increase around the world, with a trend towards large
utility-scale wind farms, effective wind energy forecasting will become increasingly important. The
improvement of the performance of wind power forecasting has significant economic impact on the
operation of autonomous power systems with increased wind power penetration. More importantly, this
challenge on wind power forecasting is particularly significant for utility-scale wind farms, where the
simple application of a turbine manufacturer’s power curve is insuficient to capture the true behaviour 
and interaction of the wind turbines over the whole site.
At present, the most important application for wind power forecasting is to evaluate energy and reserve
of a power system. Another application is to provide forecasting of wind power feed-in for power system
operation and system security assessment. Due to the location of wind farms are often far from the load
increase. Thus important aspects to be considered are start-up costs and part-load efficiencies. Penghu is
an ideal test system to investigate the system impacts of wind generation as the effects are relatively clear
to identify and are not dampened by interconnection to other systems.
In this research, new developments in wind power forecasting has been studied with a literature review
from 2005-2010. From these research works, important key issues on wind power forecasting have been
obtained. Another contribution of this research is to propose a novel combination model for wind power
forecasting by using GA-based or IA-based algorithm. Moreover, a new application software on wind
power forecasting was also proposed in this work. This software can be used flexibly to wind power
forecasting works. Comparing with some package software, the proposed one can obtain a more accurate
forecasting result based on our experiments. Finally, the benefit of applying the proposed wind power
forecasting technology on the system operation was proposed, which can help the system operator in
Penghu reschedule the unit commitment and associated management schemes.
II. Literature Review
In recent years, researchers have made significant efforts on wind power forecasting, and large numbers
of methods are established. Generally, state-of-the-art wind power forecasting methodology is established
on statistical models, physics-based methods, or their combination; especially for the combination of
physics-based and statistical models. The typical input vectors of combination models include available
meteorological forecasts up to a certain number of hours or several days, and historical data of wind power
production and weather variables that depends on the time horizon of the forecast data, from minute data
to hourly data might be needed. For almost all wind power forecast models, weather forecasts from NWP
models are the most essential input.
Currently, physics-based models are referred to as numerical weather prediction (NWP), which is the
first step of wind forecasting. These models based on meteorological observations and measurements all
over the globe. The NWP system (meteorological service) usually provides wind speed forecasts for a grid
of surrounding points around the wind farm. According to the type of NWP system, these forecasts are
given with a spatial resolution of a few kilometers, usually 10-15 km. The NWP methods are based on
mathematical fluid mechanics models and have been found to dominate the meteorological literature. The
main limiting factor for NWP models is heavily mathematical and is usually run on super computers, even
then taking over an hour to obtain a result. This may limit the usefulness of NWP methods for online
applications in power systems. Different from the NWP models, statistical models focus on empirical
relationships between historical data and forecast variables. Several statistical methods based on time
series algorithms, artificial neural networks, support vector machines, Kalman filters, and other similar
technologies have been employed. They tend to predict typical events better than rare events. In practice,
physical and statistical models are usually used together in a combined hybrid model.
From the practical point of view, different data sources and forecasting techniques varies significantly
with the time scope of forecasting. Generally, statistical models are typically used for the short term
forecasting, i.e., from few minutes to hours. NWP models results tend to have large error for the very short
horizons because the data acquisition is not instantaneous and is too sparse to allow a perfect description
of the atmospheres initial state. However, the longer-term forecasts will depend much more heavily on the
NWP models. The accuracy of a NWP model is typically best after 24 hours. In this research, the NWP
data calculated by the data center of Central Weather Bureau in Taiwan have been utilized. In addition,
each forecasting model in this research combines the physical and statistical models.
Based on the literature reviews, the accuracy of next day hour-by-hour power forecasts using current
state-of-the-art methods will, typically, have a mean absolute error (MAE) of 10-15% of the rated
(nameplate) capacity of the wind plant. While, for the next few hours can typically with MAEs on the
order of 5% of rated wind plant capacity. In general, the uncertainty on wind power forecasting is a
function of both the power curve and the wind speed forecast. Some reports indicated that the accuracy
had a dependence on the wind speed level (low winds were associated with lower precision). In addition,
forecasting errors are significantly reduced when aggregated on a system wide basis. Due to the smoothing
effects of geographic dispersion, system wide forecasting errors for multiple dispersed wind plants may be
reduced by 30-50% when compared with the errors of individual wind plants.
It is noted that wind power prediction software is not “plug-and-play”since it is always site-dependent.
It is necessary to devote considerable efforts for tuning the models on the characteristics of the local wind
profile. Furthermore, a standard methodology to assess the performance of the forecasting model is
necessary. There are a set of guidelines with respect to performance measures, such as the normalized bias,
normalized Mean Absolute Error (NMAE), and normalized Root Mean Square Error (NRMSE).
Fig.2. ANFIS system structure
In this forecasting system, selection of input variables and fuzzification is the first step to fuzzy rule
establishment. In Fig.2, x1 and x2 are input variables, Ai and Bi are the fuzzy variables; o1i and o2i are
membership functions of fuzzy set Ai and Bi. In this research, the Gaussian function is chosen as the
membership function. The second layer in the ANFIS combines the output values of the first layer so as to
get the firing strength for each rule. The function that can perform a generalized AND operation can be
used as the node function in this layer. Every node in the third layer is a fixed node which is the
normalized firing strength. Layer four is an adaptive node in which the network calculates the node output
as a linear combination of inputs. The fifth layer is to calculate the final output of all rules.
Support Vector Machines (SVM) is a kind of machine learning algorithm, which is based on the
statistical learning theory and structural risk minimization principle. In recent years, SVMs have been
successfully applied to numerous applications, including pattern recognition, nonlinear regression
estimation, and time series forecasting. The Least-Square Support Vector Machines (LS-SVM) is an
extension of the standard SVM, the quadratic term is used as the optimization index entries, and it also
uses the equality constraints instead of inequality constraints of the standard SVM, namely, the quadratic
term programming problem is transformed into a linear equation groups, reducing the computational
complexity, increasing the speed of the solving.
Let（xi,yi）be independent data pairs with each
n
ix  denoting a vector belonging to input space and
each iy be its corresponding target value in the output space. Ni ,...,2,1 where N is the number
of data pairs. In SVM, the data is nonlinearly mapped from the input space to a high dimensional feature
space using x . The forecasting function is introduced as   bxwxf   , where w is the connection
weight vector and b is bias. The optimization problem for standard SVM is represented as:
Minimize  Ni iT ww 12
1  (2)
Subject to
 





0
1
i
ii
T
i bxwy


(3)
Where i is slack variable and  is a positive real constant, determining penalties to forecasting errors.
The above formulation can be modified for LS-SVM, and the final LS-SVM model can be represented
as:     bxxxf iNi ii   ,1  (4)
where i and i are Lagrange multipliers. The Kernel function which is inner product of two
x functions is instead incorporated in computations. In this research, the RBF Kernel is used.
The principle of the combination forecasting model is to give the weight coefficient for each individual
model and forms the final combined model, and the weight coefficients are gained by means of adaptive
GA or IA in this research. Variable weighted combined forecasting consisting of m prediction models can
be denoted as follow:
nnc ffff   ...2211 (5)
where 1...21  n , and n is the sum of forecasting models.
Genetic algorithm (GA) that is developed based on natural choice and evolution mechanism of nature is
parallel, stochastic and adaptive searching algorithm. GA simultaneously is to optimize entire populations
of designs at once, among which the initial populations can be produced at random. The new populations
are produced by performing operations such as selection, crossover and mutation by means of the fitness
wind farm production for the next hour. These forecasts are updated every hour based on the most recent
wind power measurements. The aim of the proposed prediction model is to capture the relations between
input (meteorological information, on-line data) and output (total wind power). Such mapping includes
temporal correlations between past and future data of the process, conversion of wind speed
(meteorological predictions) from the height or the atmospheric level they are given to the hub height of
the wind turbines, and spatial project of the meteorological wind speed forecasts from the NWP grid
points to the level of the wind farm (“downscaling”).
In the beginning of the research, the autocorrelation analysis is carried out in order to investigate the
relationship between the past and the future data in wind power itself. Fig. 5 (a) and Fig.5 (b) show the
correlation plots for winter and summer series respectively. Autocorrelation analysis shows that the
predicted value only closely relates with recent several historical values, which allows fewer inputs and
simple topology of forecasting models; that is, more complicated models would not improve the accuracy.
(a) (b)
Fig.5 Autocorrelation analysis for wind power series in winter (a) and summer (b)
This section shows the forecasting results of the developed models. The available data is divided into two
sets：
 Case 1：Data from November 2008 to January 2009 is used for training and the data in February
2009 is used for testing.
 Case 2：Data from April 2008 to July 2008 is used for training and the data in August 2008 is used
for testing.
 Case 3：Data from November 2009 to January 2010 is used for training and the data in February
2010 is used for testing.
 Case 4：Data from April 2009 to July 2009 is used for training and the data in August 2009 is used
for testing.
Since the evaluation of the prediction models is done over a period of several months, it is of particular
interest to visualize the seasonal forecasting performance. Aggregated short-term wind power forecasting
for a group of wind turbines may be easier to manage and may provide some inherent error cancellation.
Therefore, in this research, the aggregated wind power from eight turbines is collected and the average
wind speed measured at the top of the wind turbines is used. It is reasonable to use the average wind speed
because the distance among the eight turbines is very short. In this work, the forecast performance is
evaluated by the mean absolute percentage forecast error, which is defined as an average of the ratio
between absolute forecast error and the maximum capacity of the wind farm.
100
1
%  
N apacityInstalledC
rActualPowePowerEstimate
N
error (6)
Table 1 shows the numerical results of the 7 forecasting methods. The corresponding forecasting curves
for Case 1 are shown in Fig.6 (a) - Fig.6(c). It can be seen that among the most critical situations to
forecast are sudden and pronounced changes in the wind power curve. The results show that the
combination models outperform any other individual model. As indicated in Fig.6 (b), the forecasting
accuracy for ARIMAX and SVM forecasts are quite good, but the forecast performance is significant
worse for the ARIMA model that dose not include NWP inputs. With NWP inputs, the ARIMAX shows a
reduced error of around 1% compared with ARIMA. The results indicate that meteorological information
has to be considered in the forecasting model. It is necessary to point out that the similar forecasting result
as shown in Fig.6 are very typical for the wind power forecasting in the Jung-Tun wind farm during the
winter seasons. Fig.7(a)-Fig.7(b) show the some of the forecast results for Case 3 (refer to Table 3). The
performances of the GA-based or IA-based combination models are good, where the prediction error
Fig. 7(b) Results by IA and GA combination models (Case 3)
Fig. 8 Results by IA-based combination models (Case 3)
It is important to note that the issues related to wind integration can vary from one system to another.
For example, the wind integration impacts on a system where a large percentage of the generation is from
gas, are somewhat different from those on a system where coal generation is on the margin.
In this research, an industrial tool for wind power forecasting has been developed, which can be utilized
to train forecasting models, predict wind power, extract proper historical data, compute forecasting
residuals, accelerate the forecasting speed with the modified Levenberg–Marquardt algorithm, and
executing combination forecasts with GA or IA method. It can also be applied for the education purpose.
The main window of the designed forecasting tool is shown in Fig.9: the left area is used for software
operators to install training samples and determine various parameters of forecasting models. In terms of
the neural network approach, the back-propagation (BP) with LM learning algorithm is utilized in this user
interface to wind power model training. Therefore, the users can choose the transfer function, allowed
maximum training error, learning rate, neuron number, and epoch number. The middle row in this user
interface includes the training information and various figure displays. If users pick “Display al the 
training details”, then the Informationwindow will display the model training procedure and any detailed
information, such as the current training errors, epoch, ANN parameters and others. In addition, this main
user interface provides various figure displays, including wind power curves, transfer functions, training
residuals, actual and forecasting wind power curves. Furthermore, these curves can be enlarged, restored,
and cleaned based on the users’requirements. The right area of this user interface gives the function of
In this application software, a novel procedure to accelerate the parameter divergent speed of
forecasting model was proposed and written by programs. It is based on the theory that adjusts the weights
between the steepest descent method and the Newton Raphson algorithm in order to obtain a better
computation performance. In other words, we can adjust dynamically the learning rate to accelerate the
divergence speed. By clicking the “Learning algorithm”button, a new interface will appear. If giving
suitable learning rate and judge points, the users could obtain a faster parameter divergence result. In this
work, the proposed method, in average, will accelerate the divergence speed up to 3~4 times compared to
the tradition LM learning method.
After training procedure, the following procedure is to predict wind power by using the training models.
This software provides another window interface for real time forecasting. The users can click the
“Forecasting”button in the main window and enter into the forecasting sub–interface, which is shown in
Fig. 11 This interface can be used directly to predict wind power because the parameters of the forecasting
model have been determined during the training procedure. During the forecasting procedure, the input
values will be installed automatically to the blocks at the left part of the window and the forecasting
results will be shown at the output automatically. In the forecasting sub-interface, users can install a
maximum of 6 input variables and 2 output variables. In general, the number of input/output variables
（input: 6, output: 2）is enough for the wind power forecasting work.
Fig.11 Sub–interface for wind power forecasting
The second version of this forecasting tool has been established in this research. The main user interface
is shown in Fig.12 This modified interface moves the detailed options to the sub-interface, and retains the
information window and figure display in the main interface, which would highlight the main function of
this forecasting tool.
Fig.12 The main user interface of the design forecasting tool (The 2nd edition)
8 0.279 0.238 3.658 6.268 6.268 14.927 58.954 57.512 57.522
9 0.378 0.340 5.062 5.988 5.988 16.050 58.560 57.325 57.356
10 0.485 0.466 6.673 5.665 5.665 17.338 58.114 57.076 57.128
11 0.550 0.600 8.003 4.439 6.039 19.043 57.751 57.543 56.677
12 0.590 0.710 8.979 4.244 5.844 19.823 57.481 57.511 56.627
13 0.600 0.790 9.540 4.132 5.732 20.272 57.336 57.548 56.664
14 0.600 0.850 9.900 4.060 5.660 20.560 57.222 57.61 56.714
15 0.600 0.880 10.08 4.024 5.624 20.704 57.180 57.623 56.739
16 0.600 0.900 10.20 4.000 5.600 20.800 57.149 57.635 56.751
Number of online 1st phase units：2 Number of online 2nd phase units：3
Table 4 Min frequency under various possible system disturbances(system load = 35MW, , total online unit:6)
Wind
speed
(m/s)
Generation
of single
Jung-Tun
wind
turbine
(MW)
Generation
of single
Hu-Si wind
turbine
(MW)
Total
generation
from wind
power
(MW)
Generation
of single 1st
phase unit
(MW)
Generation
of single 2nd
phase unit
(MW)
Spinning
reserve
(MW)
Min
frequency
due to wind
farm trip
(Hz)
Min frequency
due to 1st phase
diesel generator
N-1
(Hz)
Min frequency
due to 2nd phase
diesel generator
N-1
(Hz)
3 0.019 0.004 0.177 5.804 5.804 16.785 59.960 58.549 58.549
4 0.042 0.020 0.458 5.757 5.757 16.972 59.888 58.591 58.591
5 0.078 0.050 0.922 5.680 5.680 17.282 59.784 58.529 58.539
6 0.126 0.096 1.587 5.569 5.569 17.725 59.628 58.518 58.529
7 0.194 0.156 2.484 5.419 5.4193 18.323 59.400 58.498 58.508
8 0.279 0.238 3.658 5.224 5.224 19.106 59.141 58.466 58.477
9 0.378 0.340 5.062 4.990 4.990 20.042 58.819 58.425 58.446
10 0.485 0.466 6.673 4.721 4.721 21.115 58.446 58.352 58.363
11 0.550 0.600 8.003 4.500 4.499 22.002 58.155 58.269 58.280
12 0.590 0.710 8.979 4.337 4.337 22.653 57.937 58.223 58.238
13 0.600 0.790 9.540 4.243 4.243 23.027 57.813 58.238 58.259
14 0.600 0.850 9.900 4.183 4.183 23.267 57.74 58.268 58.290
15 0.600 0.880 10.08 4.153 4.153 23.387 57.699 58.290 58.311
16 0.600 0.900 10.20 4.133 4.133 23.467 57.668 58.300 58.321
Number of online 1st phase units：2 Number of online 2nd phase units：4
In addition to the above-mentioned load condition, this research has performed all of the possible load
conditions, and proposed a useful suggestion for unit commitment. It is summarized in Table 5. It is found
that the total online diesel units will change for different load and wind power conditions. All of them need
an accuracy result on wind power forecasting.
可供推廣之研發成果資料表
可申請專利 可技術移轉 日期：99 年 7月 31 日
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱：澎湖地區風力發電預測技術研究及其效益評估
計畫主持人：吳元康
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-346-007- 學門領域：電力
技術/創作名稱 工業及教育目的之風力發電預測軟體研製
發明人/創作人 吳元康
中文：本計畫已設計一個預測軟體，它的功能包括訓練模型、預測風力
時序、萃取合適的歷史數據、計算預測誤差、利用改良型的 LM 演算法加
速預測速度，以及執行以基因或免疫演算法為基準的組合預測模型。此
軟體適合應用於工業及教育界。
技術說明 英文：In order to flexibly predict wind power series, a forecasting software is
designed. It can be utilized to train forecasting models, predict wind power,
extract proper historical data, compute forecasting residuals, accelerate the
forecasting speed with the modified Levenberg–Marquardt algorithm, and
executing combination forecasts with genetic and immune algorithm method.
It is useful for industry and education applications.
可利用之產業
及
可開發之產品
1. 可應用的產業包括風能開發、風場規畫、以及公民營風電廠營
運重要參考。
2. 專業風力發電預測軟體
技術特點
第一，本研究為一跨領域計畫，風力預測必須結合氣象與電力相關
專家，此因大氣風速預測對風力預測具有關鍵性的影響。第二，本
研究提出組合預測的概念，將 5 種統計與人工智慧模型做一整合，
利用生物演化演算法取各個模型的權重，獲得一更精準的預測結
果。第三，本研究實際製作出一專業的預測軟體，此一預測專業軟
體可供教育與商業所用。第四，應用本研究的成果可以較精確的提
供尖山電廠機組排程的規劃、暫停風機運轉的時機與停機數量、儲
能元件的容量設計、低頻卸載啟動頻率的調整、以及負載管理的重
要參考。
推廣及運用的價值
本研究實際製作出一專業的預測軟體，所有演算法均自行撰寫程
式，並製作成標準預測視窗介面，避免套用一般商業套裝軟體，因
此相關演算法的研究與改良將更有彈性，而且此一預測專業軟體可
供教育與商業所用。此外，湖西風場將於 2010 年底併聯運轉，此
一高占比的風力系統對於系統操作的影響非常巨大，應用本研究的
成果可以較精確的提供尖山電廠機組排程的規劃、暫停風機運轉的
時機與停機數量、儲能元件的容量設計、低頻卸載啟動頻率的調
整、以及負載管理的重要參考。因此本研究應可實質對台電尖山電
廠機組調度操作有所貢獻。整體而言，本研究的成果期望能不僅在
學術上有些許突破與貢獻，更希望研究成果能真正應用於工業界。
direction and the power output, thus implicitly including the
effects of array losses and other complex turbine interactions in
wind energy forecasts [3, 4]. However, it should be noted that
forecasting efforts (and particularly the application of AI and
learning system methods) are often hindered by poor data
quality. For example, uncertainty associated with short-term
wind power forecasts is often exacerbated by curtailments of
wind plants and availability of individual wind turbines if such
information is not available to the wind forecast system in real
time. The state of turbines in the wind plant is often hidden
from the forecast by plant-level data aggregation and SCADA
limitations.
Nowadays wind power prediction is an operational,
commercial task which must fit into the requirements of
ambitious customers like utilities, TSOs and operators of large
wind farms. Although being operational, many approaches for
power forecasting are originated in a research environment.
Typically, a commercial wind power forecasting tool is
composed by an ensemble of modules (downscaling, power
curve modeling, model output statistics etc); it is very complex
to build a completed forecasting module. In this paper, a
professional and flexible platform has been developed for
operating wind power prediction models. The detailed
functions and adopted theories in this proposed tool will be
represented in the following section. Based on this designed
forecasting tool, various forecasting results can be combined to
provide a more accurate wind power prediction.
DEVELOPED TOOL IN WIND POWER FORECAST
System Construction
In Taiwan, it is necessary to build the commercial software
for wind power forecasting to meet the particular requirement
on local wind speed variation and probability distribution. In
this paper, the authors have proposed an industrial forecasting
tool in wind power. The forecasting models were written by
Matlab programs, and the Matlab Graphical User Interface
(GUI) was utilized to design the user interface of wind power
prediction. This application software then was utilized to
predict the short-term wind power forecasting of Jung-Tuen
wind farm. Instead of the general commercial software, in this
User Interface, all of the forecasting technologies, including BP
neural network with Levenberg Marquardt (LM) learning
algorithm, error calculation, dynamic figure display, and other
AI algorithms were written by the authors, which provide a
more flexible interface to predict wind power.
The main functions of this designed forecasting tool consist
of：
 Forecasting model training
 Historical data extraction
 Wind speed and wind power predictions
 Convergent validity acceleration
 Compute , display, and save forecasting residuals
 Combination prediction with Genetic algorithm
 Sectional forecasting models with different weights
Fig. 1 gives the main flow chart of this forecasting tool: in
the beginning, the users need to input the AI model parameters and
transfer functions; then the data extraction can be implemented if
required. In the next procedure, the AI model will be trained and
the real-time forecasting procedure will be carried out based on the
trained model. In this proposed tool, the BP neural network with
modified LM learning algorithm was utilized as our AI forecasting
model, which has been recognized as one of the powerful
forecasting model in wind power.
Figure 1 Flow Chart of the proposed forecasting tool
Modified LM Learning Algorithm
The Levenberg–Marquardt optimization algorithm is an
approximation of Newton’s method and its adaptation for
neural networks training [5, 6] is much more efficient than the
usual gradient based techniques. A mathematical description of
the LM neural network training algorithm has been presented
by Hagan and Menhaj [7]. The LM algorithm was originally
designed [8] to serve as an intermediate optimization algorithm
between the Newton method and steepest descent algorithm,
and address the limitations of each of those techniques. The
Newton algorithm has quadratic convergence properties that
make it very fast. However, the convergence of this method
depends highly on the choice of the initial weight values. Since,
in real-world problems, the prediction of an appropriate set of
initial values is not always possible, the Newton method is
impractical for many applications. Equation (1) indicates the
iteration formulation of the Newton method, which is derived
by the second order Taylor series expansion.
 tttt xFxFxx   121 (1)
However, it can be found that general mathematical functions
could be fitted by high-order Taylor series expansion. For
example, the cosine function can be represented by F0(x) in Fig.
2. Based on the Taylor series expansion, the higher order series
Identify applicable sponsor/s here. (sponsors)
 dAxxF  (15)
By substituting (15) into (2), one could obtain:
   dxAIdAxxx
ttttttt
 1 (16)
In terms of (16), the eigenvalues of matrix  AI
t
 have to be
less than 1in order to maintain a stable system. Therefore,
  11 
jt
 (17)
where  
nj
 
21
 is an eigenvalue vector. Then,
max
22
0

 
j
t (18)
The eigenvalue
j
can be obtained by
 xJxJAxF T2 (19)
Many researchers have used the LM algorithm for curve
fitting, neural network parameter estimation, and optimization
problems. Due to its desirable convergence capabilities, the LM
method is usually preferred over many other optimization
techniques. This is the reason why the modified LM algorithm
with adjustable learning rate is utilized in our forecasting
model.
Detail Illustration on theForecasting Tool
The main window of the designed forecasting tool is shown
in Fig.3: the left area is used for software operators to install
training samples and determine various parameters of
forecasting models. In terms of the neural network approach,
the back-propagation (BP) with LM learning algorithm is
utilized in this user interface to wind power model training.
Therefore, the users can choose the transfer function, allowed
maximum training error, learning rate, neuron number, and
epoch number.The middle row in this user interface includes
the training information and various figure displays. If users
pick “Display al the training details”, then the Information 
window will display the model training procedure and any
detailed information, such as the current training errors, epoch,
ANN parameters and others. In addition, this main user
interface provides various figure displays, including wind
power curves, transfer functions, training residuals, actual and
forecasting wind power curves. Furthermore, these curves can
be enlarged, restored, and cleaned based on the users’
requirements. The right area of this user interface gives the
function of historical data extraction, which is an optional
function for users. The main target of data extraction is to filter
incorrect data caused by measurement system failure or
unstable wind gusts; these extreme data would confuse learning
results and then reduce the accuracy of forecasting models. As
a result, it is necessary to design a data filter to extract correct
historical data, which would help accurate model construction.
The users can determine the precision and the rate of data
extraction for their historical data. Furthermore, this user
interface provides the fine and coarse adjusts for the data
extraction.
Fig. 4 displays the detailed information during training
procedure. In the information window, the training epoch,
errors, and learning rate can be represented, and the training
error curves can be displayed in the bottom window. The users
can trace the training errors and convergence condition from
this detailed information. During the training period, the
implementation progress will be shown at the right bottom
corner of the user interface; once the training is complete, the
required training time will be given in this interface.After the
model training procedure is finished, this software can show
three kinds of figures：the wind power characteristic curve
(wind speed-wind power curve), the time series of actual and
forecasting wind power, and the X-Y plot (X axis: actual wind
value, Y axis: forecasting wind value), the former two curves
are shown in Fig. 5 and Fig. 6 respectively. These training
results can be installed into specify Excel files automatically. In
order to observe these curves clearly, this forecasting tool
provides the “zoom” function to enlarge flexibly the desired
part of curves
After training procedure, the next procedure is to predict
wind power by using the training models. This tool provides
another window interface for real time forecasting. The users
can click the “Forecasting” buton in the main user interface
and enter into the forecasting sub–interface. This interface can
be used directly to predict wind power because the parameters
of the forecasting model have been determined during the
training procedure. During the forecasting process, the input
values will be installed automatically and displayed
sequentially to the blocks at the left part of the window, and the
forecasting results will be shown at the output automatically. In
the forecasting sub-interface, users can install a maximum of 6
input variables and 2 output variables. In general, the number
of input/output variables（input: 6, output: 2）is enough for the
wind power forecasting work. This application software
provides 3 kinds of methods to compute forecasting residuals,
including the NRMSE, NMAE, and user-defined formula. In
addition, the forecasting results, actual values, and the
difference between them can be displayed in this interface,
which is shown in Fig. 7.
In addition to the model training and forecasting functions,
this application software also includes historical data extraction
by setting the precision and extraction rate, which would
extract the dots of the actual wind power curve, reduce the
model uncertainty, and accelerating training speed. After all,
the training speed is one of the important factors on the wind
power forecasting issues. In this application software, a novel
procedure to accelerate the parameter divergent speed of
forecasting model was proposed and written by programs. It is
based on the theory that adjusts the weights between the
steepest descent method and the Newton algorithms in order to
obtain a better computation performance. The theory and
derivation process for the modified LM algorithm have been
illustrated in the Ⅱ.B section. In other words, we can adjust
dynamically the learning rate to accelerate the divergence
speed. By clicking the “Learning algorithm” butonin the
upper left corner of the main interface, a new interface will
appear. If giving suitable learning rate and judge points, the
users could obtain a faster parameter divergence result. In this
work, the proposed method, in average, will accelerate the
divergence speed up to 3~4 times compared to the tradition LM
learning method.
Figure 7 Display of wind power time series on actual, forecasting, and residual values
A significant function of this application software is to
provide a combination forecasting technology, which is
completed by Genetic Algorithm (GA) method. The
users can install various forecasting results based on
statistical and AI methods, and apply the combination
forecasting technology to obtain better forecasting
results by searching the optimal weights of various
forecasting methods. In addition, the weights can be
divided into different wind speed conditions and seasons.
The flow chart of the combination forecasting algorithm
is shown in Fig. 8
Figure 8 Flow Chart of the combination forecasting method
CONCLUSIONS
This paper has designed a near commercial
application software for wind power forecasting. The
authors would like to highlight the importance of
application software development on wind power
forecasts. It is expected that this application software
will be developed to an advanced version in the near
future.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This work was supported in part by the National
Science Council in Taiwan under the Project Title:
Study on wind power forecasting technologies and its
economic benefit evaluation at Penghu, Project No:
98-2221-E-346-007-
REFERENCES
[1]Yuan-Kang Wu, Jing-Shan Hong, “A literature review of wind 
forecasting technology in the world,” IEEE Power Tech, pp. 
504-509 Lausanne, 1-5, 2007
[2]Sa’nchez I., “Short-term prediction of wind energy production,” 
International Journal of Forecasting, vol. 22, pp.43–56, 2006
[3]Sideratos G., “An advanced statistical method for wind power
forecasting,” IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol.22,
pp..258–65, 2007
[4]Barbounis TG, Theocharis JB, Alexiadis MC, Dokopoulos PS.
“Long-term wind speed and power forecasting using local
recurrent neural network models,” IEEE Transactions on
Energy Conversion, vol. 21, pp. 273–284, 2006
[5]M.T. Hagan, and M.H. Mehnaj, “Training feed forward neural 
networks with Marquardt algorithm,” IEEE Trans. on Neural
Network, vol. 5(6), pp. 989-993, 1994.
[6]L. M. Saini, and M.K. Soni, “Artificial neural network based peak
load forecasting using Levenberg-Marquardt and quasi-Newton
method,”IEE Proceeding Gener. Trans. Distrib., vol. 149(5) ,
pp.578-584, 2002.
[7]M.T. Hagan, M. Menhaj,“Training feedforward networks with the
Marquardt algorithm,”IEEE Trans. on Neural Networks, vol.5
(6), pp.989–993, 1994
[8]K. Levenberg, A method for the solution of certain problems in
least squares, Quart. Appl. Math. Vol. 2, pp.164–168, 1994
2010 INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON POWER SYSTEM TECHNOLOGY, PAPER NUMBER FP1258 24
timely is crucial for wind power generation prediction,
especially for the short term prediction.
During 2009, the minimum load at the Penghu island was
around 27MW and the maximum wind power output could
contribute 5.2MW（the installed capacity of wind power at
Penghu） to the grid; therefore, the penetration of wind
generation in winters can be reached up to 19%. If the
forecasting error on wind power is 10% MAPE, then a 500kW
uncertainty of wind power in this system would occur. In other
words, the high penetration of wind generation into power
systems gives rise to the need for greater forecasting
predictability to maintain system security and enable assets to
be operated in the most economical manner. Moreover, in
Europe, the combined power output of many wind farms
distributed over a large region results in spatial smoothing
effect. However, variation in production from this small wind
farm at Penghu could be significant on shorter time scales.
Therefore, the research topic on wind power forecasting would
be required for Penghu wind energy development.
In this paper, new developments in wind power forecasting
has been studied with a literature review during the latest
years. From these research works, important key issues on
wind power forecasting have been concluded in this paper.
Next, this paper introduced wind energy condition at Penghu
area. According to historical statistical data, wind energy
resources at Penghu are among the best in the world so that it
is worthy to develop wind power. This paper will utilize
traditional linear and nonlinear forecasting models to predict
short-term wind power at Penghu Jhong-tun wind farm. These
models include ARIMA, ARIMAX, ANN, and ANFIS.
II. SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENTS FOR WIND POWER
FORECASTING BASED ON THE LITERATURE REVIEW
Traditional forecasting models include the physical model,
the statistical model, the spatial correlation model, and
artificial intelligence methods. Physical models use physical
considerations like terrain, obstacle, pressure, and temperature
to estimate the future wind speed. Sometimes they are only the
first step to forecast the wind, which is supplied as auxiliary
input of other statistical or AI models. Typically, the NWP
model should apply accurate digital elevation models (DEMs)
and model output statistics (MOS) correlations for short term
prediction. NWP models are good at predicting large-scale
area wind speed and can achieve better results in long-term
forecasting. There is a trend in wind power forecasting
technology to collect different NWP data from various
weather stations. For example, The Canada SAGIPE system is
importing and storing a large amount of weather forecast data
(such as hourly wind speed, wind direction, temperature, at
various elevation levels) several times a day for a selection of
relevant points from the mesoscale grids. Most importantly,
the SAGIPE is designed to receive NWPs from a non-limited
number of models, and from different weather forecasting
authorities. It currently receives the operational regional
forecasts (GEM 15 km) from the Canadian Meteorological
Center and experimental forecasts (SPEO 2.5 km) from the
RPN. Acquiring NWPs from other models can also be
foreseen. The reason for the multiplication of sources is that
the lower the resolution (i.e., the longer the distance is
between nodes of the grid), the faster they are produced by
meteorological centers. Low resolution models are generally
sufficient in the case of wind farms built on flat lands or gentle
hill slopes whereas higher resolution models are needed when
topology is more complex, as is the case for wind farms built
in mountainous areas. In addition, some models are more
accurate than others for specific weather regimes, which leads
to better wind power predictions.
Conventional statistical models are identical to the direct
random time series model. Based on a number of historical
data, pattern identification, parameter estimation, model
checking are utilized to make a mathematical model of the
problem. Typical statistical models include ARMA, ARIMA,
and Kalman filter models. This kind of method is easy to
establish model and capable to provide timely prediction, and
fit for short-term horizons. Some research results [12] pointed
out that the seasonal ARIMA model presented a better
sensitivity to the prediction of wind speed.
As for the ANN model, it is one of the most widely used
models in the last decade because of its excellent ability in its
learning from experience. The ANN model consists of many
layers; in the hidden layer, it usually is sigmoid function. The
training process is the procedure to obtain the weights of each
connection and the neurons threshold value. ANN learns
patterns and relationships in data through an iterative process
that in effect adjusts coefficient in a complex, non-linear
equation. With supervised learning, the modeling objective is
to map a set of input (independent) values to one or more
associated output data values. A new method, ANFIS,
combined the fuzzy logic and neural networks together and
created excellent performance. This approach has been proved
to be a suitable technology during significant ramp periods in
wind farm output. It is expected that further studies on AI
methods and training algorithm improvement will be
developed.
In recent wind power forecasting researches, few practical
forecasting uses physical or statistical method only. Instead,
both physical and statistical models are utilized
simultaneously in typical forecasting methods. In which, to
train the system on the local conditions, NWP results are
regarded as input variables together with historical data and
statistical theories. It is noted that the time interval between
statistical and physical approaches is different because, in
generally, the NWP temporal resolution is 6 hour and power
measurements are averages over 15mins; therefore, the
meteorological forecasts can be linearly interpolated in order
to have them corresponding to the available observations.
Support vector machine is a novel approach which can
overcome some disadvantages of neural network, such as local
minimal point and over learning. Reference [13] introduced
the support vector machines for wind speed prediction and
compared it with the multilayer perceptron neural networks.
The results proved that the SVM model had less root mean
square errors than MLP model. Reference [14] did further
2010 INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON POWER SYSTEM TECHNOLOGY, PAPER NUMBER FP1258 26
Bureau (CWB) have been utilized. The model forecasts are
run twice daily with a spatial resolution of about 5 km.
Because the surface forecast errors are possible due to terrain
differences between the model grid and stations, the forecasts
and grid parameters at each weather station are represented by
four grid points around it. The model produces 1~72 hour
ahead forecasting for a 10-m high wind field. Available data
from the CWB include the predictions of not only U-V wind
speed but also atmospheric pressure, temperature and other
weather variables. Based on the experience of Taiwan CWB,
the 12~24h ahead forecast was the most skillful, whereas the
accuracy of 0~12h ahead and 48~72h ahead forecasts was
decreased. It is because that the outputs of the model (or the
estimation of the initial state) will be stable after 12 hour but
the model performance will be decreased as the lead time of
prediction becomes longer.
IV. DESCRIPTION OF FORECASTING METHODOLOGIES
In this work, four kinds of typical forecasting models were
utilized respectively to predict wind power output, including
ANN, ARIMA, ARIMAX, and ANFIS.
The ANN models can represent a complex nonlinear
relationship and extract the dependence between variables
through the training process. Without the need to explicitly
define mathematical expression, the ANN model is simpler to
construct and requires shorter development time than other
statistical methods. Therefore, the ANN model has been
utilized to forecast wind power in this study. The activation
function of the adopted ANN is the sigmoid-type with
hyperbolic tangent function because it can produce both
positive and negative values, which helps speed up the
training process. Furthermore, the Levenberg–Marquardt
approach is utilized to train the ANN model. This approach is
suitable for training a medium sized network. It applies an
approximation of the Hessian matrix from the first order
gradient method to obtain a second-order training speed at low
computation cost.
In theory, three-layer-feedforward networks can be used as
a general function approximator. The three main steps for
ANN model design are to identify appropriate input
parameters, set up the network structure; and designing a
training algorithm that yields the best forecast performance.
The current and previous observations of wind speed and wind
power generation can be selected as the input parameters for
wind generation forecast.
Auto-regressive and moving average with exogenous
variables (ARMAX) was developed from the classical time
series model ARMA. Typically, the pattern of wind power
possesses nonlinear and dynamic characteristics. In addition to
seasonal and diurnal variation, the wind power shape is
generally governed by the ambient weather conditions, i.e.
wind speed. In order to capture the relationship between the
wind power and the wind speed accurately, an ARMAX
model could be utilized. Traditional multiple input and single
output ARMAX model can be expressed as:
  







 
n
i
pj
j
ri
i
mi
i
titijitjiitit eXecXubXPaP
1 1
1
0 1
,,
(1)
where Pt is the wind power at time t, ut,j is the jth
exogenous variable value at time t, et is the white noise, p is
the amount of exogenous variables, n,m, r are the orders of
AR,MA, and the exogenous variable X, respectively. The
general identification process is composed of order
determination, parameter estimation, and diagnostic check.
Since wind power pattern is sensitive to metrological
variables, the ARIMAX model in this study chooses the wind
speed as the exogenous variables. The Bayesian Information
Criterion (BIC) is used to represent the objective function of
model order. In practice, the process of the parameter
estimation is a nonlinear regression process and the
optimization theory estimation was utilized to find the
parameters in this paper. Once the parameters have been
estimated, the tentative model should be tested, which will
help the researcher to see if it adequately represents the
observed wind power data. The test procedure includes normal
distribution check, stationary check, and sample
autocorrelation function (ACF) of simulated model error
check.
ANFIS is a hybrid system that combines the low level of
computational neural networks with the high level in the
reasoning ability of fuzzy systems. That is, ANFIS is a fuzzy
inference system based on the Sugeno model. It incorporates
the self-learning ability of ANN with the linguistic expression
function of fuzzy inference, whose membership functions and
fuzzy rules are acquired from a large lot of existing data
instead of experience or intuition. Based on several reports,
the merger of a neural network with a fuzzy system into one
integrated system therefore would offer a promising approach
to building very short-term wind prediction models. The
classical network structure has two inputs. In general, an
ANFIS model includes five layers: the input layer, the
fuzzification layer, the rule layer, the normalization layer, and
the defuzzification layer.
V. SHORT-TERM WIND POWER FORECASTING AT PENGHU
The horizon for this prediction process varies
according to the required application or purpose and
the used technique. For example, if the lead time is
few seconds or minutes, the object of forecasting is
aimed at the control of a wind turbine; by contrary,
1-7 day ahead forecasting would help enhance the
maintenance planning.
This section shows the forecasting results of the
developed ANN, ANFIS, ARIMA, and ARIMAX
models. The available data is divided into the
training data and the testing data for each case. In
general, the forecast performance is evaluated by
the Normalized Root Mean Square Error (NRMSE)
and the Normalized Mean Absolute Percentage
2010 INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON POWER SYSTEM TECHNOLOGY, PAPER NUMBER FP1258 28
C. Ten Minute Ahead Forecasting
Table V shows the forecasting results by using different
models. In the 10-minute ahead forecasting, the NWP
forecasting values cannot be obtained because of the very
short time. Therefore, the available inputs only include the
latest data on wind power and wind speed measurements.
Fig. 2 Results of one-hour-ahead wind power forecasting by using ANFIS model
Fig. 3 PACF plot for one-day-step wind power time series
Fig. 4 PACF plot for 10-minute-step wind power time series
Fig.3 and Fig. 4 show the PACF plots for the one-day-step
and 10-minute-step wind power time series respectively. It can
be found that the time lag 1 is obvious for the 10-minute-step
wind power time series; in other words, the AR (1) model
would be suitable to construct the relationship among the
historical wind power series. The above analysis is reasonable
because the closest data is just the 10-minute-ahead value and
the difference between the 10 minute values is small. It is
clear from Table V that the ANFIS model yields the best
performance; this model uses the latest wind speed and the
latest wind power generation measurements as inputs. On the
contrary, the worst case is to use the ARIMA model.
TABLE V
TEN-MINUTE-AHEAD WIDN POWER FORECASTING
Forecast error
(NRMSE, %)Forecasting
model
Input
Parameter Dec.
2009
May
2010
Avg.
ANN ws(t-1), p(t-1) 3.13 3.52 3.33
ANFIS ws(t-1), p(t-1) 2.21 2.87 2.54
ARIMA p(t-1), p(t-2)
e(t-1)
4.05 4.67 4.36
ARIMAX p(t-1), p(t-2),
e(t-1), e(t-2),
ws(t-1)
3.29 3.65 3.47
VI. EFFECTS OF NWP PREDICTIONS ON WIND POWER
FORECASTING
Based on the results of the previous section, wind power
forecasts with single variable, i.e., historical wind power,
would result in lower prediction accuracy. Furthermore, the
NWP predictions would have a significant effect on the wind
power forecasting if the change on the dynamic wind power
curve (x axis: wind speed, y axis: wind power) is not large
within a specific period. Fig. 5 shows the forecasting results
based on four kinds of methods, where the developed ANN
and ARIMA models do not include the NWP inputs, but the
ANFIS and ARIMAX models take the NWP input into
account. It is found that the forecasting errors based on the
ANN and ARIMA are much higher than that based on the
ANFIS and ARIMAX because the latter methods add the
NWP values as input.
2010 INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON POWER SYSTEM TECHNOLOGY, PAPER
NUMBER FP1258
30
Distributions,”IEEE Trans. on Energy Conversion, Vol. 25 (2) ,
2010 , pp.577-585
[18] Pinson, P.; Kariniotakis, G.; “Conditional Prediction Intervals 
of Wind Power Generation,”IEEE Trans. on Power Systems,
2010 , pp.1-1
[19] Dukpa, A.; Duggal, I.; Venkatesh, B.; Chang, L.; “Optimal
participation and risk mitigation of wind generators in an
electricity market,”IET Renewable Power Generation, Vol. 4 (2)
2010 , pp:165-175
[20] Teleke, S.; Baran, M. E.; Bhattacharya, S.; Huang, A. Q.;
“Optimal Control of Battery Energy Storage for Wind Farm
Dispatching,”IEEE Trans. on Energy Conversion, 2010, pp.1-8
Yuan-Kang Wu (M’06) was born in 1970. He
received his Ph.D. degree in Electronic and
Electrical Engineering from the University of
Strathclyde at Glasgow, UK, in 2004. He was a
researcher at the Industrial Technology Research
Institute (ITRI) and an engineer at the Taiwan
Electric Research and Testing Center (TERTC)
in Taiwan. He is presently an Assistant Professor
in the Department of Electrical Engineering at National Penghu
University, Taiwan, working in the area of wind power system,
renewable energy forecasting techniques, power system control and
management, distributed generation and smart grid control
Ching-Yin Lee was born in 1957. He received
his B.S.E.E. degree from National Taiwan
Institute of Technology in 1983, M.S.E.E.
degree from National Taiwan University in
1986 and Ph.D. from National Taiwan
University of Science and Technology in 1992.
Professor Lee worked with Northern Taiwan
Telecommunication from 1979 to 1986. Since
1986, he has worked with the Department of
Electrical Engineering, National Taipei University of Technology
(NTUT). He was the chairperson of the E.E. department from 1992 to
1995, a visiting scholar at the University of Texas at Arlington from
1996 to 1997, the dean of extension education office, the head of
secretary office from 1997 to 2001, the dean of general affairs from
2001 to 2006, the dean of college of management from 2007 to 2008
and the vice-president at National Taipei University of Technology
from 2006 to 2009. Currently, he is an honorable professor at NTUT,
and a Professor and the head of secretary office at Tungnan
University in Taiwan.
His research interests are in power system operation, particularly in
voltage stability analysis, reactive power planning, contingency
analysis, power quality, distributed generation, micro grid simulation,
and renewable energy
Shao-Hong Tsai was born in 1968. He received
his B.S. degree from National Changhua
University of Education in 1991, M.S.E.E.
degree from National Taipei University of
Technology in 2002 and he is currently working
toward the Ph.D. degree. He is presently a
lecturer in the Department of Electrical
Engineering of the Hwa Hsia Institute of
Technology. His areas of interest are voltage
stability analysis, small-signal stability analysis and distributed
generation.
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：吳元康 計畫編號：98-2221-E-346-007- 
計畫名稱：澎湖地區風力發電預測技術研究及其效益評估 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 2 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 5 5 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
