 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫期中報告 
低氣壓射頻電容式耦合電漿源之模擬及實驗研究(一年) 
Modeling and Experimental Sudy of a Low-Pressure RF Capacitively 
Coupled Plasma Source (1 Year) 
 
計畫編號：NSC-95-2221-E-009-018- 
執行期限：95 年 08 月 01 日至 64 年 07 月 31 日 
主持人：吳宗信   國立交通大學機械工程學系 
計畫參與人員：李富利 周欣芸 國立交通大學機械工程學系 
 
中文摘要 
 
電感式耦合射頻電漿是一種被經常使用在材
料製程上的低溫電漿源，它的重要性在於廣泛的
應用性，像薄膜沈積、乾蝕刻、濺鍍、光阻剝離
等等。簡而言之，和其它的電漿源相比較之下，
它的普及性來自它的結構的簡單性。因此，對電
感式耦合電漿(CCP)有基礎的認識在發展製程設備
上是很重要的。 
在此提出的一年計畫中，我們針對使用單一
射頻電源之電感式耦合電漿進行模擬研究及並和
本計畫中的電漿量測進行比較。模擬方法包括靜
電場及用 PIC-MCC 方法 self-consistently 解電漿參
數。因 PIC-MCC 模擬時間相當長，因此將進行平
行計算以縮短時間。計畫中的測量項目包括離子/
電子密度、電子溫度、電子能量分佈、離子通量
和電漿電位。除了在最後發展完成一套平行化之
2D PIC-MCC 軟體以外，本計畫最終目的則是對
正在發展中的電感式耦合射頻電漿(CCP)之物理現
象有更清楚的認識。 
 
關鍵字: 二維，電感式耦合電漿，PIC-MIC，蘭米
爾探針。 
。 
Abstract 
Capacitively coupled plasma (CCP) represents 
one of the most important and popular low-
temperature plasmas used in modern materials 
processing. Its importance stems from its wide 
applications, such as thin-film deposition, dry etching, 
sputtering and photoresistor stripping, to name a few, 
while its popularity comes from its simplicity as 
compared with other plasma sources. Thus, 
fundamental understanding of the plasma physics 
within CCP is important in developing this kind of 
processing equipment. 
In this proposed one-year project, the modeling 
of an 2D CCP chamber with single RF sources, shall 
be studied in detail and compared with planned 
plasma measurements. Corresponding simulation 
methods for modeling the physics include self-
consistent field solution (Poisson equation for 
electrostatics) plus PIC-MCC (Particle-In-Cell/Monte 
Carlo Collision) for plasma simulation due to strong 
non-equilibrium in this weakly ionized rarefied flow. 
Parallel implementation on memory-distributed 
machine (e.g., PC-cluster system) shall be utilized to 
greatly reduce the computational time. Planned 
measurements using a Langmuir probe of the related 
plasma parameters include the ion/electron number 
density, electron temperature, EEDF, ion flux and 
plasma potential. Our final goal of this proposed 
research is to provide a better understandign of the 
underlying physics of the CCP chamber, in addition 
to delivering a robust and fast 2D PIC-MCC code for 
future research.  
 
Keywords: two-dimenisional, capacitively coupled 
plasma, PIC-MCC, Langmuir probe. 
 
I. INTRODUCTION  
Low-pressure capacitively coupled 
plasma (CCP) has attracted tremendous 
attention [Liebermann, 1994] in the two past 
decades since it represents one of the most 
important and popular low-temperature 
plasma sources in modern materials 
processing, e.g., in semiconductor and 
optoelectronics industries. Its importance 
stems from its wide applications, such as 
thin-film deposition, dry etching, sputtering, 
photoresistor stripping, surface modification, 
among other things, while its popularity 
comes from its simplicity of configuration 
and low cost as compared with other plasma 
sources. In general, CCP chamber can be 
easily configured with single-, dual-, or even 
 4
gradient method for solving the Poisson’s 
equation.  
In addition, MUMPS is parallelized in 
both the second and the third phases using 
full asynchronous approach with dynamic 
scheduling of the computation tasks, which 
enables ovelapping between communication 
and computation. The entries of matrix A  
can be either localized in the host processor 
or distributed equally among the processors.  
 
III. EXPERIMENTAL METHOD 
We have modified a DC magnetron 
sputtering chamber (Fig. 2) into a RF CCP 
chamber (Fig. 3). We have first removed the 
permanent magnet system uderneath the 
target and replace the target with a normal 
electrode made of stainless steel plate. We 
have installed the newly purchased RF 
generator (13.56 MHz, 600 kW, MKS Inc.). 
A Langmuir probe is also tested on this CCP 
system. Due to the constraint of project 
length (one year), there is not enough time 
for conducting the planned experimental 
part. Experimental work is still in progress 
and hopefully we can report elsewhere in the 
very near future. 
 
IV. RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
Important simulation conditions of the 
CCP are briefly summaried as follows: 
argon,  pressure of 20 mtorr and 50 mtorr, 
gap distance between electrodes of 2 cm, 
electrode length of 10 cm and applied 
voltage 100 Volts (13.56 MHz, sinuodal, 
peak-to-peak). Simulation results are 
presented in the following.  
EEPF 
Fig. 4 shows the EEPF at p=50 mtorr, 
while Fig. 5 shows the EFPF at p=20 mtorr. 
At p=50 mtorr, the EEPF is an almost single 
Maxwellian distribution. As pressure 
decreases down to 20 mtorr, bi-Maxwellian 
distirbution appears, which means that more 
electrons are able accelerate to higher 
velocities because of lower density of 
background neutrals. This higher energy tail 
important in generating higher plasma 
density. 
Plasma properties 
Figs. 5a-5e illstrates the cycled average 
distribution of potential, electron number 
density, ion number density, electron energy, 
and ion energy, respectively, at p=20 mtorr. 
Results show that sheaths are clearly formed 
near the electrodes. Electron and ion number 
density are nearly the same in the plasma 
bulk region, which is quasi-neutral. 
Magnitude of the plasma density is on the 
order of 1E16 particles/m**3. Electron 
energy is approximately 4 eV in the bulk, 
while it becomes smaller in the sheath since 
there are very few electrons in that region. 
Ion energy are generally small in the bulk, 
while it increases up to more than 20 eV in 
the sheath due the acceleration by the high 
sheath electric field. Data with higher 
pressure p=50 mtorr generally follow the 
same trend, although the sheaths become 
thinner. 
 
V. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE 
WORKS 
 In the current report, we have described 
our final status of our project in simulation 
related research. Progress of experimental 
setup is also reported. Important conclusions 
are summarized as follows: 
1. Lower pressure tends to provide another 
high energy electrons for ioninzing 
neutrals, which increases the plasma 
density. 
2. Bi-Maxwellian distribution of EEPF 
exists at lower pressure CCP, while only 
single-Maxwellian distribution exists at 
higher pressure CCP. 
3. MUMP runs fast as compared to CG-
based linear equation solver if the 
number of unknows is small. 
 
Future work includes detailed 
measurements of plasma properties within 
the CCP chamber and compared with 
simulation presented in this report. 
 
VI. REFERENCES 
1. Amestoy, P.R., Guermouche, A., 
L'Excellent, J.-Y. and Pralet, S., Hybrid 
scheduling for the parallel solution of 
linear systems, Technical Report 
INRIA RR-5404 also ENSEEIHT-IRIT 
RT/APO/04/4 and LIP report RR2004-
53.  
 6
Enegry (eV)
E
E
P
F
0 5 10 15 20
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
Argon at 50mTorr
TL= 1.58 eV
TH= 2.58 eV
 
     (a)   
      
Energy (eV)
E
E
P
F
0 5 10 15 20
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
Argon at 20mTorr
TH= 3.264 eV
TL= 0.833 eV
 
                      (b)                                     
 
Fig. 4 EEPF of a RF gas discharge. (a: top) 
P=50mTorr (b: bottom) P=20mTorr. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
 
(c) 
 
 
(d) 
 
(e) 
Fig. 5 Plasma properties of a RF gas discharge 
(P=25mTorr). 
The CCP 2006 comprised 2 plenary sessions and 8 parallel sessions per day, and 2 
poster sessions. Nine plenary talks enriched the technical program, addressing a 
variety of topics which were presented by well-respected members of the 
computational physics community.  
In this conference, I have presented a paper entitled, “Development of a 
parallelized 3D PIC-FEM code and its applications”, which aims to predict field 
emission without and with space-charge effect, and to simulate the RF magnetron 
argon plasma to demonstrate its capability in handling practical problems. 
Au
th
or
's 
  p
er
so
na
l   
co
py
Computer Physics Communications 177 (2007) 98–101
www.elsevier.com/locate/cpc
Development of a parallelized 3D electrostatic PIC-FEM code
and its applications
J.-S. Wu ∗, K.-H. Hsu, F.-L. Li, C.-T. Hung, S.-Y. Jou
Mechanical Engineering Department, National ChioTung University, Hsinchu 30050, Taiwan
Available online 23 February 2007
Abstract
A parallelized three-dimensional self-consistent electrostatic particle-in-cell (PIC) code using unstructured tetrahedral mesh is proposed. Par-
allel implementation of the current unstructured PIC-FEM code is realized on distributed-memory PC-cluster system utilizing dynamic domain
decomposition. Completed code is verified by simulating a quasi-1D RF argon gas discharge with results comparable to previous experimental
observations and simulations. Parallel performance with dynamic domain decomposition of the PIC code is tested using a 3D RF argon gas
discharge on a PC-cluster system. Results show that parallel efficiency can achieve 83% at 32 processors with dynamic domain decomposition.
Some possible improvement of the code performance is demonstrated. Completed code is then applied to predict field emission without and with
space-charge effect, and to simulate the RF magnetron argon plasma to demonstrate its capability in handling practical problems.
© 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Keywords: Particle-in-cell; Finite element; Tetrahedral mesh; Parallel implementation; Dynamic domain decomposition
1. Introduction
Recently, PIC method using unstructured mesh has begun
to appear in the literature, although there are very few. Two
recent examples using unstructured tetrahedral mesh include
Celik et al. [1] and Spirkin and Gatsonis [2]. In the former,
they only tracked ions by assuming Boltzmann relation for
electrons and applied Newton iterative algorithm for solving
the nonlinear Poisson’s equation which was discretized using
finite element method (FEM). Although the simulation was ef-
ficient, assumption of Boltzmann relation for electrons may not
be correct for most of the low-temperature plasma flows that
are non-equilibrium in nature. In the latter, both ions and elec-
trons are tracked at the same time, and the Poisson’s equation,
which was discretized using finite volume method (FVM), was
solved using conjugate gradient method. In this study, only very
small problem size was demonstrated because of several major
reasons, including the inefficient equation solver, the slow par-
ticle tracking on unstructured mesh and being lack of parallel
processing.
* Corresponding author.
E-mail address: chongsin@faculty.nctu.edu.tw (J.-S. Wu).
In addition, there are very few studies in parallel processing
of PIC method using dynamic domain decomposition, which is
important for particle-based method to achieve better load bal-
ancing. The only two examples in the literature to the authors’
best knowledge are the studies by Seidel et al. [3] and Liewe and
Decyk [4] using structured grids, in which the method dynam-
ically repartitioned the computational domain that is intended
to balance the workload among processors. In these studies,
domain decompositions for particles and equation solver are
different, which requires intensive communication at each time
step.
Motivated by the above reviews, in the current study we in-
tend to develop and verify a parallelized PIC-FEM code using
3D unstructured tetrahedral mesh with dynamic domain decom-
position for applications that involve charged particles. In addi-
tion, several applications using the completed PIC-FEM code
are demonstrated.
2. Parallel PIC-FEM using tetrahedral mesh
2.1. PIC-FEM on unstructured mesh
Proposed PIC-FEM on unstructured mesh is fundamentally
very similar to the conventional PIC method on structured
0010-4655/$ – see front matter © 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/j.cpc.2007.02.059
Au
th
or
's 
  p
er
so
na
l   
co
py
100 J.-S. Wu et al. / Computer Physics Communications 177 (2007) 98–101
Fig. 2. Evolution of domain decomposition. Initial (left); final (right).
Fig. 3. Schematic diagram of the 1/4 simulation domain for a typical
CNT-based triode-type field emitter within a periodic cell. Important geomet-
rical parameters are: R = 500 nm, r = 10 nm, he = 600 nm, h = 500 nm,
d = 200 nm, L = 0.9 mm and W = 0.3 mm.
by e ∼ 0.2. Preliminary results show that the particle-tracing
time can be reduced ∼5 times. In the latter, we have imple-
mented an one-level and zero-level (or block-Jacobi) overlap-
ping additive Schwarz method (ASM) [7] for the discretized
Poisson’s equation. Preliminary tests for a problem of ∼51,000
nodes using 32 processors show that the speedup is about 1.5
and 2.0 for one-level and zero-level ASM preconditioning, re-
spectively, as compared to the pure CG. Indeed, more tests of
the above two possible improvements are needed in the very
near future. However, the above two improvements are not em-
ployed for the following applications.
3.4. Applications
3.4.1. Field emission prediction
Without space-charged effect. We simulate the field emission
from a gated single-CNT triode-type field emitter with an ap-
plied uniform downward magnetic field, as shown in Fig. 2.
Note this downward magnetic field can be achieved in practice
using either coils or permanent magnets around the emission
cells [8]. By assuming the electric field and magnetic field do
not change due to the emitted electrons, the Poisson’s equation
is solved only once through the use of a PAMR (parallel adap-
tive mesh refinement) module [9], which can automatically re-
Fig. 4. From left to right, top to bottom: Exploded view of the refined mesh near
the tip, instantaneous snapshot of electrons from a single-CNT triode-type field
emitter with B = 0, −0.2, −0.5, −1.0 Tesla. The gate voltage and the anode
voltage are fixed at 120 Volts and 1 kV, respectively.
Fig. 5. Dependence of electron beam diameter at the anode on the flux density
of magnetic focusing field.
fine the mesh near the tip of the single CNT (top-left of Fig. 3),
where the electric field is very large. Simulation, considering
the Fowler–Nordiem emission law [10] at the cathode surface,
shows that electron beam diameter at the anode decreases with
increasing applied downward magnetic field (Fig. 4), while the
value oscillating around 70 nm with decreasing amplitude as
the B is greater than ∼0.35 Tesla, which is shown in Fig. 5,
mainly because of the over focusing induced by large B.
With space-charged effect. In addition, we simulate field
emission from a emitter made of nano-silicon tip (diameter
∼90 nm) under vacuum due to a tungsten anode with the gap
distance of ∼60 nm. In this simulation, the PAMR module
is also applied to refine the mesh near the nano-tip by using
the initial potential distribution without considering the space-
charge effect. Considering the F-N emission law at the cathode
surface, the PIC-FEM code is then run to simulate the field
emission self-consistently very 10 time steps by turning off the
MC module. As shown in Fig. 6, the predicted I–V curve with
work function of 4.5 eV compares surprisingly well to the mea-
surements. In addition, the predicted turn-on voltage is 175 V
which is within 5% of the experimental value. Note simulated
field emission current is at least 30 times larger as the correct
