摘要 
本計畫研究垂直排列鐵電性液晶盒顯示模式，在液晶盒間隙(d)小於材料螺旋距(p)的條
件下，探討在上下基板做摩擦(rubbing)配向處理的方式，對於液晶分子排列與光電特性的影
響。在 d<p 的條件下，液晶分子的螺旋排列初始即受到限制。因此在配向上會產生 Schilren
缺陷使得對比度下降。當在上下基板做摩擦配向後，實驗結果顯示，上下基板 rubbing 方向
所夾的角度可控制液晶分子在液晶盒中螺旋的方向與角度。例如，反向(180°)、twist(90°)與
同向(0°)rubbing 下，液晶分子在液晶盒中分別呈現解旋、90°與 180°螺旋 tilted homeotropic
排列。同時，增加 rubbing 強度可使液晶分子排列更均勻。另一方面，為了降低配向均勻性
對於液晶盒間隙的依存性，我們提出電場配向法。我們利用在相轉移過程施加電場的方式，
控制在相轉移過程中液晶分子排列的轉換。利用此電場配向法可使垂直配向鐵電性液晶盒在
d=5μm 下達到均勻配向的效果。在傳統顯示器製程中，摩擦配向為常用的配向方式之一。
此機制的提出大大的降低了鐵電性液晶盒在製程上的問題。垂直配向鐵電性液晶盒需用水平
電極驅動。根據此摩擦配向機制，我們提出具初始解旋分子排列之垂直配向鐵電性液晶顯示
模式。此模式的提出可解決傳統鐵電性液晶盒在垂直配向下所面臨的高驅動電壓問題。 
 
關鍵詞：鐵電性液晶、垂直排列、摩擦配向、電場配向、配向均勻性 
 
1. Introduction                    
As fast response LCD is required to show fast moving pictures without image blurring, FLC 
has attracted considerable attention from the display application perspective given its superior 
material property of fast response time. However, FLC has a helix molecular configuration and 
smectic layers [1], making its alignment more complicated than that of nematic liquid crystal 
(NLC). Typically, the alignment configuration of a liquid crystal cell can be classified as either 
planar alignment (PA) or vertical alignment (VA). In the PA-FLC cell, the helix macular 
configuration can be unwound by introducing the FLC material into a cell with a thin cell gap 
rather than the helical pitch of material. The FLC cell with this cell geometry is called a 
surface stabilized FLC (SSFLC) cell [2]. The ideal layer structure of SSFLC is arranged as a 
bookshelf. However, when the liquid crystal phase is transferred from the upper phase of SmA 
or N* into the SmC* phase, the vertical and/or horizontal chevron layer defects [3-5] readily 
emerge due to the change of molecular orientation during the phase transition The existence of 
these layer defects in the SSFLC cell results in a non-uniform alignment.  
To date, many methods—such as ion beam deposition [6], photo-alignment [7], and 
electric field treatment [8-11]—have been reported to show defect-free alignment in a SSFLC 
cell. Based on these methods, several FLC display modes such as V-shape [12-13], half 
V-shape [14-17] and bistable FLC [6-7] have been proposed. Nevertheless, the uniform 
alignment methods mentioned herein for SSFLC cell are relatively complicated compared with 
current NLC-based LCDs. In particular, a SSFLC cell requires a thin cell gap—typically 
thinner than 2μm—making large area uniformity and productivity difficult to realize using current 
display factories. Thus ultimately prevents the SSFLC cell from being used in large display 
applications.  
In regard to the VA-FLC cell, most researchers have focused on the investigation of the 
molecular alignment and electro-optical properties of the deformed helix FLC (DHFLC) [18-20]. 
In the VA-DHFLC cell, because the helical pitch (p) of material is much smaller than the cell gap 
(d), the molecules orient linearly with the helical axis along the substrate normal, which leads to 
the disappearance of macroscopic birefringence under crossed polarizers. Accordingly, the uniform 
alignment can readily be achieved in the VA-DHFLC cell without any particular treatment, such as 
VA-DHFLC cell and more adoptable for be driven by the active matrix driving scheme.  
For practical applications, the rubbing technique is currently one of the common methods 
used to obtain uniform alignment in NLC displays. Indeed, our proposed THFLC cell can also be 
fabricated by current display factories. Therefore, this chapter will discuss the effects of the 
rubbing strength and the angle between two rubbing directions on the molecular alignment. The 
electro-optical properties of the THFLC cell are presented and compared with those of the 
VA-DHFLC cell.  
 
2. Effect of rubbing process on the molecular alignment of the VA-FLC cells 
2.1 Experimental Setup                 
    R-2301 (Clariant) FLC materials are used in this study. Several critical parameters of the 
material, including tilted angle (θ) and helical pitch (p), are listed in Table 1.  
Table 1 Specifications of the FLC materials R-2301 
Phase sequence Isotropic-86.6~84.6-N*-64.7-SmC* 
Tilt angle (θc) 26° 
Birefringence (△n) 0.175 
Spontaneous polarization(Ps) 3.5 nC/cm
2 
Helical pitch in SmC* phase (p) p >20μm 
 
Sandwich-type test cells were made using two glass substrates covered with vertical 
alignment film RN-1717 (Nissan Chemical). Cells with different cell gaps were maintained 
using 2.0μm, 3.5μm, and 5.0μm thick ball spacers. The cell area was 20mm×25mm. To 
investigate the effect of the rubbing process on the molecular alignment, cells with different 
rubbing conditions were utilized using the rubbing machine (EHC BM51). The rubbing 
direction and rubbing strength were set as variables. Fig. 1 illustrates the definition of the angle 
between the rubbing directions of the two substrates. The dashed and solid arrows indicate the 
rubbing direction of the top (RT) and bottom substrates (RB), respectively. Here, the rubbing 
direction of the bottom substrate was fixed while the rubbing direction of top substrate was 
rubbing direction of the bottom substrate being parallel to the transmission axis of the polarizer. 
As the plate rotates, the angle between the rubbing direction and transmission axis of polarizer is 
defined as ,.  
 The experimental molecular configuration of the cells with different rubbing conditions was 
reconfirmed using the software DIMOS to simulate the conoscopic images of these cells. Fig. 2 
shows the coordinate definition of the molecular orientation in the liquid crystal layer and the 
corresponding setup page of the simulation software DIMOS. The x-y plane is the substrate plane 
while the z axis is the substrate normal.  is the pretilt angle of the FLC molecule, calculating from 
the x-y plane to the z axis.  is the angle between the projection axis of the molecule on the x-y 
plane and the x axis. B and T are the values of  at the bottom and top boundary conditions, 
respectively. The positive and negative values of  are defined as the counterclockwise and 
clockwise molecular change away from the y axis, respectively. In the VA-FLC cell, the molecules 
in the SmC* phase tilt away from the substrate normal by c (the cone angle of FLC material). 
Therefore, the value of =64°, calculated by the expression of =90°c, is fixed. If the molecules 
have a unidirectional tilted director in the cell, B is equal to T and their values depend on the 
molecular tilt direction. When the helix molecular configuration occurs in the cell, the molecules 
rotate around the cone from bottom to top substrate preserving a constant tilt angle of =64°. The 
twist degree of the helix is determined by the expression =TB.  
 
Fig. 2 Schematic illustrations of the coordinate definition of the molecular orientation in the liquid 
crystal layer and the corresponding setup page of the simulation software 1Dim-DIMOS.  
 Fig. 3 Microscopic textures of the non-rubbed VA-FLC cells with cell gap conditions of d=2μm 
and 3.5μm in the (a) N* phase and (b) SmC* phase, (c) Schematic illustration of the 
molecular configuration of the non-rubbed VA-FLC cell. The textures in the N* and SmC* 
phases are taken at 68°C and room temperature, respectively.  
 
 Fig. 4 shows the microscopic textures of the VA-FLC cells under anti-parallel and parallel 
rubbing conditions. The cell gap and rubbing depth of these two kinds of cells are d=2.0m and 
M=0.1mm, respectively. While rotating the cells with =0° and 45°, the textures of the cells with 
anti-parallel (Fig. 4(a)) and parallel rubbing (Fig. 4(b)) show uniformly dark and bright states, 
respectively, without the schilren domain in the cell. These results suggest that the surface rubbing 
is strong enough for these two cells and is capable of controlling the molecular tilted director. In 
the conoscopic image (Fig. 5), the cell with anti-parallel rubbing shows the isogyre center shifts 
away from the central position and to the rubbing direction. Fig. 5(a) indicates that the average 
(c) 
Substrate normal(z) 
glass substrates 
Tilted cone 
Molecular axes 
x 
y 
(a) 
500μ
m      
500μm      
P 
A 
(b) 
d 
500μ
m      
500μ
m      
N* phase 
SmC* phase (d=2μm) SmC* phase 
(d=3.5μm) 
 
 (a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 4 Microscopic textures of the VA-FLC cells under conditions of (a) anti-parallel rubbing and 
(b) parallel rubbing. The cell gap and rubbing depth conditions are d=2μm and M=0.1mm, 
respectively. 
 
Fig.5 Conoscopic images of the VA-FLC cells under conditions of (a) anti-parallel rubbing and (b) 
parallel rubbing, and simulated conoscopic images of the LC layer under conditions of (c) 
Δβ=0°, and (d) Δβ=180° 
quadrant of the x-y plane. The projection of average molecular axis is 45° with respect to the 
rubbing direction. 
 On the other hand, when φR =90°, the cell presents a uniformly bright state (Fig. 8 (a)) when 
=0° and a uniformly dark state (Fig. 8 (b)) when =45°. This result is similar to that of the cell in 
which φR =90°. The conoscopic image of the cell with φR=90° (Fig. 8 (c)) indicates that the 
helical direction is a right-hand helix rotating from bottom to the top substrate. Setting Δ=90°, the 
simulated conoscopic image, Fig. 8(d), can be obtained, which is almost the same as the 
experimental result, Fig. 8(c). The projections of molecular axes on the bottom substrate are 
distributed in the first quadrant, as illustrated in Fig. 8(e). The projection of the average molecular 
axis is 45° with respect to the rubbing direction.  
 
 
Fig. 7 Microscopic textures of (a) δ= 0° and (b) δ= 46°, and (c) conoscopic image of the twist 
rubbing VA-FLC cell with φR=90°, (d) simulated conoscopic image of the LC layer under 
conditions of (d) Δβ=-90°, (e) illustration of molecular configuration from top view of the 
twist rubbing VA-FLC cell  
those cells with d=2μm. As shown in Fig. 9(b), when the cell gap increases to d= 5μm, the 
non-uniform domains and declination lines increase as well. These defects may be contributed 
by the molecules-—especially away from the surface—which do not follow the surface rubbing 
arrangement. Considering the relation between the cell gap and helical pitch of the material 
(d/p<1), the surface rubbing effect on the bulk helix is reduced as the cell gap increases. In the 
case of d= 5μm, the surface anchoring force given by the condition of M=0.1mm is not strong 
enough to control the helix and influence the molecular tilted direction. To reduce the cell gap 
dependence to achieve uniform alignment, following will discuss the effect of rubbing strength 
on the molecular alignment of the VA-FLC cells under parallel and anti-parallel rubbing 
conditions, respectively. In addition, an electric field treatment method is proposed to lessen 
the cell gap and rubbing strength dependence as well as obtain defect-free alignment in the 
cell. 
 
Fig. 9 Microscopic textures of the VA-FLC cells under (a) anti-parallel rubbing and (b) parallel 
rubbing. All cells has the same rubbing depth condition of M=0.1mm. 
 
Fig. 10 shows the microscopic textures of the anti-parallel rubbed VA-FLC cell with different 
rubbing depths. For cells where d=3.5μm, both the amounts of defect points and disclination lines 
are reduced as the rubbing depth increases. A uniformly dark state can be observed in this kind of 
cell under the rubbing depth condition of M=0.4mm, as shown in Fig. 10(a). According to the 
AC electric field treatment method to eliminate the declination lines. The AC electric field is 
applied to the cell during the N*-SmC* phase transition to enable the surface anchoring force to 
penetrate through the bulk of the cell. The frequency and amplitude of the electric field are f= 
1kHz and Vp=10V, respectively. As shown in Fig. 11(b), the cell is first heated from room 
temperature to 68°C, where the cell is in the N* phase. While maintaining the same temperature 
(68°C) and applying an AC electric field upon the cell in N* phase, the disclination lines are 
eliminated and the image darkens due to the dielectric coupling with the electric field. Thus, the 
alignment in the N* phase becomes a uniform homeotropic state. The electric field does not switch 
off when the cell subsequently cools down, passing through the N*-SmC* phase transition 
temperature (63°C) to 55°C.  
After the electric field treatment, cell alignment becomes uniform and the conoscopic texture 
reveals that the molecular tilted direction is controlled by the surface rubbing. In this method, the 
coupling between the spontaneous polarization and the electric field leads the molecules to tilt 
away from the substrate normal and follow the tilted direction given by the surface anchoring and 
intrinsic helical power. This mechanism can also apply to that of the VA-NLC cell, in which the 
molecules in the electric field can tilt uniformly through the treatment of surface rubbing to the 
cell. According to this electric field treatment method, the defect-free uniform alignment can be 
obtained in the VA-FLC cells, as shown in Fig. 12. 
 
Fig. 11 Microscopic textures of the anti-parallel rubbing VA-FLC cells (a) without applying ac 
electric field and (b) with an ac electric field applied during the N*-SmC* phase 
transition 
3. Development of a tilted homeotropic FLC display mode with uniform 
alignment and low operating voltage 
As the discussion above, we have clarified that the molecular configuration in the 
VA-FLC cell can be controlled by surface rubbing when the condition of d/p is smaller than 0.2. 
Based on this mechanism, we propose a tilted homeotropic (TH) FLC display mode. This 
THFLC cell shows several advantages, such as a simple fabrication process, threshold-less 
situation, and low operating voltage, making it a promising candidate for large display 
applications. This section discusses the operating principle and voltage-dependent 
transmittance (T-V curve) of the THFLC cell, comparing them with those of the VA-DHFLC 
cell. The VA-DHFLC cells do not have surface rubbing. 
Our test cell is fabricated using a sandwich type of two glass substrates coated with vertical 
alignment films (RN-1717). The transparent indium tin oxide (ITO) or opaque aluminum 
inter-digital electrodes are covered on one of the substrates using lithography technology. Both the 
interval and the width of the electrodes are 7μm. The cell gap is maintained using 3.5μm thick ball 
spacers. In the THFLC cell, two substrates are treated with anti-parallel rubbing at a rubbing depth 
of M=0.4mm. The rubbing direction of the cell is set perpendicular to the electrodes. Three kinds 
of FLC material are predominantly used in this experiment: Rolic-10855 (Rolic), CS-1030 (Chisso. 
Co), and R-2301 (Clariant). Several critical material characteristics of Rolic-10855 and CS-1030 
are shown in Table 2 and 3, respectively. R-2301 is used for the THFLC cell. Rolic-10855 and 
CS-1030 have p=0.15μm and 3μm, satisfying the condition of d/p>1 used for the VA-DHFLC cell.  
 
Table 3.2 Specifications of the FLC materials Rolic-10855 
Phase sequence Isotropic-94-N*-83-SmC* 
Tilt angle (θc) 37.5° 
Spontaneous polarization(Ps) 95 nC/cm
2 
Helical pitch in SmC* phase (p) p <0.2μm 
 
 
Table 3.3 Specifications of the FLC materials CS-1030 
operating principle of the THFLC cell with an applied electric field. The FLC material used in the 
THFLC cell is R-2301. The transparent ITO inter-digital electrode is used in this cell. The 
illustration is the top view of the molecular configuration of the VA-DHFLC cell. Therefore, the 
molecular axes are the projection of the molecular director on the bottom substrate. The solid and 
dotted black lines whose axes have 90° with respect to the rubbing direction represent the 
electrodes connecting positive (+) and negative polarities () of electric fields, respectively. In the 
THFLC cell, the bulk helix is initially unwound, and the average molecular axis tilts away from 
the substrate normal toward the rubbing direction. Therefore, from the top view of the cell, the 
average molecular axis and the vectors of spontaneous polarization (Ps) are parallel to the rubbing 
direction and the electrodes, respectively. The cell is set between crossed polarizers with its 
rubbing direction as well as the average molecular axis parallel to the transmission axis of one of 
the polarizers. The microscopic textures of the cell are obtained under different applied voltages of 
60Hz. The transmission (T) can be expressed as T=sin
2(2φ)sin2((2πΔnd)/λ), where λ, d, and φ are 
the wavelength of the incident light, the cell gap, and the angle between the polarization vector of 
front polarizer (P) and the average molecular axis of the cell, respectively. The effective 
birefringence, which is a function of the molecular tilted angle, is denoted as Δn. At the field off 
state, the average molecular axis is parallel to the polarizer, thereby achieving a uniformly dark 
state, as shown in Fig. 14 (a). When an electric field is applied to the cell, the molecules 
continuously switch along the tilted cone via the coupling of Ps with the external electric fields. 
Therefore, the switching of the average molecular axis increases φ. In the case of V=10V, as 
shown in Fig. 14 (b), the microscopic texture shows a period of bright and dark patterns in the cell. 
The bright pattern results from the switching of molecules in the electrode interval area. The 
molecules on the middle region of the electrode area do not switch due to the nearly vertical 
electric field, resulting in the dark pattern. As the electric field increases to V=40V, both the 
interval and electrode areas show a bright state, but the total brightness is darker than that shown 
in Fig. 14 (b), as shown in Fig. 14 (c) because—when the electric field is strong enough—the Ps 
director becomes completely parallel to the transmission axis of the analyzer. The increased 
electric field leads to the φ being increased from 0° to 90°. According to the expression of T, 
which is a function of φ, T increases from dark to maximum bright and dark again as the electric 
Practically speaking, the two cells show threshold-less voltage in the V-T curve; this may be 
because of the bulk helix being initially deformed by the surface anchoring force. The Vsat values 
of these two cells approach 40V, but the voltages for acquiring the maximum transmittance of the 
cells with ITO and aluminum electrodes are only 14V and 12V, respectively. The operating 
voltage of the THFLC cell for the analogy grayscale (at about 14V) is more acceptable than that of 
the DH-HAFLC cell for being driven using the active matrix driving scheme.  
The cell using the ITO inter-digital electrode shows a higher transmittance than that of the 
cell using an aluminum inter-digital electrode because the molecules standing on the electrode can 
switch together with that on the electrode interval. The voltage is expected to be further reduced by 
selecting the FLC material with a large Ps value or optimizing the cell gap and electrode interval. 
0 10 20 30 40 50 60
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
 alumium electrode
 ITO electrode
 
 
T
ra
n
sm
it
ta
n
c
e
 (
%
)
Voltage (V)
 
Fig. 15 Voltage-dependant transmittance curves of the THFLC cells using aluminum and ITO type 
inter-digital electrodes. 
4. Conclusion 
We have clarified the effect of the rubbing process on the molecular alignment of the 
VA-FLC cell with the condition of d/p<0.2. The change of molecular directors from N* to 
SmC* phase in the VA-FLC cell when d/p<0.2 can be regarded as the homeotropic to high 
pretilt homeotropic state transition associated with a remaining helical power. In this kind of 
VA-FLC cell, the uniform alignment without any schilren domain can readily be achieved by 
the treatment of surface rubbing. The surface anchoring force after rubbing competes with the 
helical power; thus, the bulk helix can readily be determined by the rubbing direction. Both the 
Surface Stabilized Ferroelectric Liquid Crystal Display‖ Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., vol. 43, 2004, pp. 
4479 
[7] R. Kurihara, H. Furue, T.Takahashi, T. Yamashita, Jun Xu and S. Kobayashi, ―Fabrication of 
Defect-Free Ferroelectric Liquid Crystal Displays Using Photoalignment and Their Electrooptic 
Performance,‖ Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., vol. 40, 2000, pp. 4622  
[8] Y. Asao, T. Togano, M. Terada, T. Moriyama, S. Nakamura and J. Iba, ―Novel ferroelectric 
liquid crystal mode for active matrix liquid crystal display using cholesteric–chiral smectic C 
phase transition material,‖ Jpn. J. Apply. Phys. Vol. 38, 1999, pp. 5977 
[9] Po-Chang Wu, and Jin-Jei Wu, ―The influence of ac electric field on the domain growth and 
alignment the ferroelectric liquid crystal cell with N*–SmC* phase transition‖, J. App. Phys. 
vol. 101, 2007, pp. 104513 
[10] J. S. Patel and J. W. Goodby, ―Alignment of liquid crystals which exhibit cholesteric to 
smectic C∗ phase transitions,‖ J. Appl. Phys. Vol. 59, 1986, pp. 2355 
[11] A. Hotta, R. Hasegawa and K. Takatoh,‖ Effect of Non-DC Voltage Applied during N*-SmC* 
Phase Transition on Alignment of Half-V-Shaped Switching Ferroelectric Liquid Crystal‖, Jpn. 
J. Appl. Phys., 43, 6243 (2004) 
[12] S. Kobayashi, Jun Xu, H. Furuta, Y. Murakami, S. Kawamoto, M. Oh-kouchi ―Fabrication 
and electro-optic characteristics of polymer-stabilized V-mode ferroelectric liquid crystal 
display and intrinsic H-V-mode ferroelectric liquid crystal displays: their application to field 
sequential fullcolor active matrix liquid crystal displays‖ Opt. Eng. 43(2) 290–298 
[13] Yoshihide Fujisaki, Hiroto Sato, Tatsuya Takei, Toshihiro Yamamoto, Hideo Fujikake, Shizuo 
Tokito, and Taiichiro Kurita, ―A 5-in. flexible ferroelectric liquid-crystal display driven by 
organic thin-film transistors.‖ SID 08 DIGEST, vol. 16, 2008, pp. 1251-1257 
[14] Suk-Won Choi, Su-Seok Choi, Hyun-Ho Shin, Soon-Bum Kwon,‖Polymer 
Network-Stabilized Monostable FLCDs Using Cholesteric-Chiral Smectic C Phase Transition 
Material, ‖ SID 01 DIGEST, vol. 32, 2001, pp. 8 
[15] Toshiaki Yoshihara, Tetsuya Makino, Shinji Tadaki, Hironori Shiroto, 
―Super-High-Resolution FLC Display Based on Field Sequential Color Method with Low 
Driving Voltage ,‖ SID 03 DIGEST, vol. 34, 2003, pp. 1276 
[25] Minoru Nakamura. ―Surface topography and alignment of liquid crystals on rubbed oxide 
surfaces, ― J. Appl. Phys., vol. 52, 1981, pp. 4561-4567 
[26] Shinichiro Oka, Takashi Mitsumoto, Munehiro Kimura, and Tadashi Akahane, ―Relationship 
between surface order and surface azimuthal anchoring strength of nematic liquid crystals,‖ 
Phys. Rev. E vol. 69, 2004, pp. 061711-061717  
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：吳俊傑 計畫編號：98-2221-E-027-011- 
計畫名稱：新型強誘電性液晶顯示模式開發(II) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 6 6 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
