misorientation between neighboring grains
accounting for grain scale roughening behaviors.
Lo et al. [3] examined the surface evolution of
an aluminum sheet under different forming
procedures. They found that the free surface of
the transverse specimen in general roughens
more seriously and irregularly than the one of
the longitudinal specimen. Rotation of grains
during the plastic deformation was regarded as a
possible explanation of the observations.
Crystalline-based models have been utilized to
investigate variations of the microstructure and
mechanical properties of metals under various
forming procedures in the past (for example, see
[4-8]). Becker [9] adopted a two-dimensional
finite element model to examine metal material
responses under the plane strain compression
processes. Texture development within a grain
was reported to depend not only on the
misorientation of the neighboring grains, but
also on the constraints provided by grains sited
few grains away. Kalidindi et al. [10]
demonstrated good predictive capabilities of a
Taylor-type crystalline model with a fully
implicit time-integration scheme. The
stress-strain behavior and the texture evolution
of OFHC copper based on the simulations
agreed well with those based on the
corresponding measurements under the simple
shear and the plane strain forging processes.
Becker [11] explicitly disclosed influences of the
strain hardening, crystallographic texture, and
material homogeneity on surface roughening
behaviors by using numerical analysis. Zhao et
al. [12] stated that surface profiles of a flat
aluminum sheet under the uniaxial and biaxial
loading conditions could be controlled by several
features such as Taylor factor, shear tendency of
the individual grain, and the spatial distribution
of grain neighboring orientations. Harewood and
McHugh [13] utilized a finite element analysis to
monitor effects of the rate-sensitivity embedded
in the crystalline plasticity formulations on the
accuracy of calculation results. They indicated
that high mesh density might be required to
capture characteristics of relatively
rate-independent metals under the forming
procedures. Zhao et al. [14] evaluated texture
evolutions of face centered cubic (FCC) metals
by using three different crystalline plasticity
models. The proposed direct numerical
simulation approach with high mesh resolution
was assessed to be able to give more accurate
descriptions of the deformations and lattice
rotations inside the grains. Zhao et al. [15]
revealed that a three-dimensional crystalline
plasticity model with sufficient information of
both grain topology and microtexture could
provide rather reasonable predictions on the
surface strain localization, and further the
surface roughening profile of a metal sheet under
the tensile conditions. Recently Li and Zabaras
[16] implemented the rate-independent
constitutive relations into a finite element model
to demonstrate effects of the grain size on the
uniaxial stress-strain of the metal. That smaller
grain size inducing relatively stiffer stress-strain
response was consistent with experimental
observations.
A Taylor-type crystalline plasticity model is
adopted to investigate surface roughening of a
FCC aluminum alloy sheet in the current study.
Scanning electron microscope (SEM) with
electron backscatter scattering diffraction
(EBSD) technique is employed to obtain grain
morphology and microtexture of the sheet
3. Constitutive Relations
From a microscopic viewpoint, slip in the
certain preferred directions on the certain
preferred plane is the main mechanism of plastic
deformation at low homologous temperature.
Primary advantage of the crystalline approach is
that the constitutive behavior can be simulated
under any loading path once the constitutive
parameters of slip processes and grain
orientations of a material are known. Linear
isotropic elasticity is assumed for the metal
material, and a forth-order tensor of the elastic
modulus C can be expressed in a form of Eq.(1).





















44
44
44
111212
121112
121211
00000
00000
00000
000
000
000
C
C
C
CCC
CCC
CCC
C
(1)
Here elastic moduli 11C , 12C , and 44C are
chosen as 110.5 MPa, 58.2 MPa, and 52.3 MPa,
respectively (Boyer and Gall [18]).
For the   011111 slip system assumed for
FCC crystals, there are four slip planes with
three slip directions on each plane. Plastic
deformation due to crystalline slip in metals is
inherently strain rate sensitive. For rate sensitive
materials, all slip systems are considered to be
activated when the resolved shear stresses on the
corresponding slip planes are not identically zero.
Therefore, a lack of uniqueness for
determination of the operative slip systems
associated with an imposed deformation for rate
insensitive materials is alleviated with the
considerations of strain rate sensitivity (Pan and
Rice [19]). A power-law relation is used to relate
the resolved shear stress )( to the shear strain
rate )( of the th ( 12,1 ) slip system
by
)( )(
1
)(
)(
)(
0
)( 


  sign
g
m
  (2)
where )(0
 is the reference strain rate on the
th slip system and m represents the strain
rate sensitivity of crystalline slips. The slip
system hardness, )(g , is a function of the sum
of the shear strains of all slip system. For
simplicity, the magnitude of )(0
 is assumed to
be the same for all slip systems. The evolution of
the slip system hardness is given by
)()( 


   hg (3)
where h , the components of the hardening
matrix, give the relationships between the
hardening rate of the th slip system and that
of the th slip system. A simple hardening
matrix adopted here can be expressed as
)(
 hqh  (4)
where q , the components of the matrix Q,
are related to the self hardening rate on the
primary slip system and the latent hardening rate
on the secondary slip system of a crystal, and
)(h is a function of )(g as
a
sg
g
hh









)(
0
)( 1

 (5)
Here the hardening parameters 0h , a , and the
saturated slip hardness sg are assumed to be
constant for all slip system. Note that an initial
value of the slip hardness 0g should be
estimated together with Eq. (5). For FCC metals,
the matrix Q can be specified as
(6)







































111
111
111
111
111
111
111
111
111
111
111
111
qqqqqqqqq
qqqqqqqqq
qqqqqqqqq
qqqqqqqqq
qqqqqqqqq
qqqqqqqqq
qqqqqqqqq
qqqqqqqqq
qqqqqqqqq
qqqqqqqqq
qqqqqqqqq
qqqqqqqqq
Q
layer nevertheless contributes a little to the
roughness when each layer has the same spatial
distribution of grain orientations. These results
imply that crystallographic orientations through
the sheet thickness might be essential to provide
better estimations of the roughness.
(a)
(b)
Fig. 5(a) A meshed model with second-order
plane strain quadrilateral elements (b) {111}
pole figures of the metal with the compressive
thickness of 0.39 in three layers
Fig. 6 Relationships between the roughness of
the sheet model with various element layers and
the prescribed tensile strain
A hexahedron solid element is subsequently
adopted for the sheet model under the uniaxial
loading conditions in the longitudinal (SL model)
and the transverse (ST model) direction as well
to acquire respective variations of the surface
profile. Crystallographic orientations of 900
elements are extracted from the measurements in
the corresponding locations as described in
Section 2. Fig. 7 illustrates that the {111} pole
figure based on the above orientation extraction
can reasonably characterize that based on the
experiments shown in Fig. 3. Relationships
between the roughness and the uniaxial
longitudinal and transverse strain are
demonstrated in Fig. 8, in which the
corresponding experimental results presented in
Lo et al. [3] are also included. Experiments
demonstrate that the large strain basically
deteriorates the sheet flatness although the sheet
subjected to the loading in the transverse
direction exhibits zigzag roughness variations as
the strain increases. The calculated roughness is
obviously higher than the associated
measurement, and the discrepancy could be due
to the insufficient element numbers and element
layers through the thickness incorporated into
the simulations. That SL model has a
significantly smoother surface than ST model is
consistent with the experimental observations.
Furthermore, the roughness based on SL model
is approximately proportional to the prescribed
strain, while that based on ST model rises
sharply with respect to the increasing strain.
Calculation results nonetheless cannot capture
measured irregular roughness variations of the
sheet lengthen in the transverse direction.
Significant strain localization can also be readily
the same grain. Fig. 12 shows roughness
variations based on the grain-based model
subjected to different strains in the longitudinal
(GBL model) and the transverse (GBT model)
direction. Simulation results based on GBL and
GBT model respectively demonstrate more
serious roughening behaviors than those based
on SL and ST model. Effects of the grain size on
the roughness (for example, see Mahmudi and
Mehdizadeh [22]) in some senses might be able
to account for this phenomenon.
Fig. 11 A grain-based model
Fig. 12 Relationships between the roughness of
SL, ST, GBL, and GBT models and the uniaxial
strain
6. Conclusions
A crystalline plasticity model implemented
into the finite element analysis could rationally
assess surface roughening behaviors of
aluminum alloy sheets under various loading
conditions. Simulation results show that the
surface roughness could be strongly related to
the number of the element layer and the spatial
distribution of microtexture as well. Roughness
variations of the textured sheet subjected to the
uniaxial tensile in the longitudinal direction
based on the simulations exhibit the same trend
with those based on the experimental
measurements. Numerical results nevertheless
cannot identify observed irregular roughness
variations of the sheet lengthen in the transverse
direction. The sheet strained in the longitudinal
direction displays a dramatically smoother
surface than that strained in the transverse
direction. Subsequent pressure against the sheet
pre-strained in the longitudinal direction further
reduce the corresponding roughness, yet
experimental results show that the applied
pressure might deteriorate the flatness of the
sheet pre-strained in the transverse direction.
Finer mesh size and more element layers might
be expected for better predictions of surface
variations in the future.
References
1. D.V. Wilson, W.T. Roberts, P.M.B.
Rodrigues, Effects of grain anisotropy on
limit strains in biaxial stretching: part I.
influence of sheet thickness and grain size in
weakly textured sheet, Metall. Trans. A12
(1981) 1603-1611.
2. O. Wouters, W.P. Vellinga, R. Van Tijum,
J.Th.M. de Hosson, On the evolution of
surface roughness during deformation of
ABAQUS User Manual, Version 6.8, USA,
2008.
21. W.L. Sun, F.L. Wei, Engineering Materials,
first ed., Beijing, China, 2006.
22. R. Mahmudi, M. Mehdizadeh, Surface
roughening during uniaxial and equi-biaxial
stretching of 70-30 brass sheets, J. Mater.
Process. Technol. 80-81 (1998) 707-712.
2Fatigue Life Assessment of a Novel Mobile Phone Hinge
K.-C. Liao 1, W.-C. Lin 2
1 National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan; 2 National Yunlin University of
Science and Technology, Yunlin, Taiwan
Abstract
An innovative hinge structure of a flip-cover mobile phone is currently under
development, and the corresponding fatigue life assessment is therefore
anticipated. A finite element analysis is carried out to investigate the response of
the hinge under the cyclic loading conditions. The critical plane approach, linking
to the baseline measurements, is adopted to construct relationships between
damage parameters and fatigue lives. The submodelling technique is also
implemented into the analysis for the detailed examination of the critical region.
Furthermore a finite volume weighted averaging scheme is used for the
reasonable life prediction here. The damage criterion proposed by Socie et al.
might give fair fatigue life estimations.
1. Introduction
In order to simplify the part-assembly procedures, flexible printed circuit boards
(FPCBs) instead of cables are intended to be applied to a hinge of a flip-cover
mobile phone. A novel structure with a slotted cylindrical tube for the assembly
requirement is presently under development. Load-carrying capacity of the slotted
component could be dramatically reduced, and the associated fatigue life then
should be evaluated. A systematic methodology of life prediction utilizing
numerical analysis is thus proposed here.
Wei and Tim [1] studied flexible hinges of piezoactuator displacement amplifiers
under various loading conditions, and explored relationships between the
endurance limit and the maximum equivalent stress. Kosei et al. [2]
investigated effects of lubrication of a laptop hinge on the prescribed torque.
They found that traction control of friction slider pair is evidently beneficial to the
reliability of the hinge. Huang [3] conducted a finite element analysis for a
bracket of the laptop hinge structure. Simulation results showed that the location
with the maximum equivalent stress coincides with the observed failure site. Kuo
[4] designed a new latchless leaf-type hinge. Effects of several parameters on the
fatigue life were examined using the Taguchi method. Kuo [4] concluded that the
lubrication plays an important role on the life cycle. Su [5] investigated effects of
different materials and surface conditions on tribological behaviors of the laptop
hinge under various lubrication conditions. Experiments further showed that the
roundness of bearing part obviously dominates the fatigue life of the hinge.
A widely-used mechanical analysis commercial package, ABAQUS (Hibbitt et al.
[6]), is adopted to investigate the response of the mobile phone hinge under the
cyclic open/close procedures of a cover. The critical plane approach is applied to
4Fig. 1 Indication of the critical element in the full model
Fig. 2 Selection of the submodel
3. Fatigue Life Assessment
For mechanical components under cyclic loading conditions, the stress-based and
the strain-based approach are generally used to evaluate the corresponding fatigue
life. The stress-based approach is generally applied to the assessment of high
cycle fatigue life for the component in which the induced stress is within the
elastic range of the associated materials. On the other hand, the strain-based
approach is usually utilized to estimate the low cycle fatigue life of the
component having local plastic strain. This approach, for example, has been
commonly employed into the electronic package industry to investigate the
reliability of encapsulated structures under the temperature cycling test (for
example, see Wang et al. [7], Teo [8], and Liao and Tsai [9]). Several strain-based
multiaxial damage models were further developed for correlations of fatigue life
to various types of strain range (for example, see Fatemi and Socie [10], Socie
[11], and Chu [12]).
Ruiz et al. [13] investigated the fretting behavior of the dovetail joint between
blade and disk in a typicall gas-turbine configuration. They advised a parameter
combining fretting damage and peak stress for the life assessment of the joint.
Iyer et al. [14] evaluated effects of five mechanical parameters controlling fretting
6Wang [26] and Wei [27] examined fatigue lives of stainless cylinders with various
grooves under the multiaxial non-proportional loading conditions. Comparing
with experimental results, they found that the accuracy of the fatigue life
prediction is strongly related to the loading type. Smith-Watson-Topper criterion
[20] dominated by the principal strain amplitude, for example, is appropriate for
the fatigue life prediction of a structure subjected to the axial loading. The hinge
structure is primarily under the torque conditions, the damage criterion controlled
by shear strain amplitude therefore should be used here.
Three damage criteria, namely, Brown and Miller criterion, Socie et al. criterion,
and Lohr and Ellison criterion, are employed in the analysis. Brown and Miller
[21] proposed that both shear strain amplitude a and normal strain amplitude on
this shear plane n are harmful to the fatigue lives. The damage parameter BMP is
thus in a form of
nBM KP   max (1)
where a constant K is selected to be 0.5. Since the tensile mean stress
perpendicular to the plane with a crack usually accelerates the crack growth,
Socie et al. [24] introduced the normal mean stress nm into their damage
parameter SP as
E
P nmnS
  max (2)
here E represents the elastic modulus of the material. Lohr and Ellison [22]
suggested the damage parameter LEP as
** 4.0 nLEP   (3)
where  and n indicate the shear strain amplitude driving the crack through the
thickness and the normal strain amplitude on this shear plane, respectively.
Searching procedures of the critical plane with the largest amount of damage for
all criteria are the same as those reported in Chu et al. [18] and Chu [12].
In the analysis, Singularity phenomenon with high stress/strain states could be
induced due to the abrupt geometry change of the structure. Akay et al. [28]
proposed the volume weighted averaging scheme over the entire material domain
to characterize the singular point. However, the stress/strain response of the
structure could be underestimated using such the averaging approach. Cheng et al.
[29] then further modified the volume weighted averaging scheme, defined in Eq.
(4), to manage the strain response in a rather limited range. They stated that the
chosen domain at least contains the element with the largest equivalent strain, and
the volume weighted averaging strain in a specific zone ~ should be relatively
insensitive to the mesh density.



00
11
/~
n
e
n
e
e
ee
dd (4)
8Fig. 5 A flow chart of the fatigue life assessment procedures
4. Results and Discussion
Relationships between damage parameters and fatigue lives based on Brown and
Miller criterion, Socie et al. criterion, and Lohr and Ellison criterion are shown
respectively in Figs. 6 (a), (b), and (c). Solid lines in these figures are basically
obtained from the baseline measurements of a smooth cylinder subjected to the
torque loading conditions versus various damage parameters in Yip and Jen [19].
Upper and lower bounds give two times and a half of the associated measured
fatigue life based on the real line, respectively. A life-prediction model is usually
considered to be suitable once the estimated fatigue life locates between the upper
and lower bounds of the measurements. Fatigue life (upper bound, lower bound)
of the hinge structure obtained via the averaged damage parameters of Brown and
Miller criterion, Socie et al. criterion, and Lohr and Ellison criterion is then
respectively 32284 (64568, 16142), 47366 (94732, 23683), and 26573 (53146,
13287) cycles.
Generally the degradation percentage of the torque cannot exceed 15% after
50000 loading cycles according to the specification requirements. It should be
noted that in the experiments of Yip and Jen [19], the fatigue failure was
identified as the load-carrying capacity of the structure reduced to a half of its
initial value. Based on this viewpoint, all three damage criteria adopted here could
provide too conservative fatigue life predictions. The possible reason that Socie et
al. criterion gives the highest life could be the due to the contribution of the
compressive normal mean arisen from the contact characteristics of the hinge
structure. Nonetheless, Socie et al. criterion might predict rational life following
conclusions of Liao et al. [17].
10
The authors are grateful for the financial support from Advanced Flexible Circuit
Corporation.
References
[1] X. Wei, K. Tim, Flexible hinges for piezoactuator displacement amplifiers:
flexibility, accuracy and stress considerations, Precision Engineering, 19 (1996) 1-
10
[2] T. Kosei, L. Yamato, Y. Takashi, Traction control of friction slider pair under
a boundary lubrication condition, Surface and Coating,.100-101 (1998) 260-263
[3] Y. M. Huang, The stress analysis of hinge structure for notebook computer,
Master Thesis, National Chung-Hsin University, Taiwan, 2001
[4] C. P. Kuo, Design of a new leaf type pivot in latchless portable computer,
Master Thesis, National Chao-Tung University, Taiwan, 2004
[5] Y. C. Su, A study on wear behavior of hinge mechanism for notebook
computer, Master Thesis, National Taiwan University of Science and Technology,
Taiwan, 2005
[6] H. D. Hibbitt, B. I. Karlsson, E. P. Sorensen, ABAQUS user manual, Version
6.7, 2007
[7] J. Wang, Z. Qian, D. Zou, S. Liu, Creep behavior of a flip-chip package by
both FEM modeling and real time moire interferometry, Trans. on ASME Journal
of Electronic Packaging, 120 (1998) 179-185
[8] K. H. Teo, Reliability assessment of flip chip on board connection,
IEEE/CMPT Electronics Packaging Technology Conference (1998) 269-273
[9] K.-C. Liao, H. H. Tsai, Reliability investigations of flip chip package with
porous solder joints, The 4th International Conference on Thermal & Mechanical
Simulation and Experiments in Micro-electronics and Micro-systems, Aix-en-
Provence, France, March 30–April 2 (2003) 63-67
[10] A.Fatemi, D. F. Socei, A critical plane approach to multiaxial fatigue damage
including out-of-phase loading, Fatigue Fract. Engng. Mater. Struct., 11 (1988)
149-165
[11] D. F. Socie, Critical plane approaches for multiaxial fatigue damage
assessment, Advances in Multiaxial Fatigue, ASTM STP 1191 (1993) 7-36
[12] C.-C. Chu, Fatigue damage calculation using the critical plane approach, J.
Engineering Materials and Tech., 117 (1995) 41-49
[13] C. Ruiz, P. H. Boddington, K. C. Chen, An investigation of fatigue and
fretting in a dovetail joint, Exp. Mech., 24 (1984) 208-217
[14] K. Iyer, G. T. Hahn, P. C. Bastias, C. A. Rubin, Analysis of fretting
conditions in pinned connections, Wear, 181-183 (1995) 524-530
[15] M. Sralm, J. Flasker, I. Potrc, Numerical procedure for prediction the rolling
contact fatigue crack initiation, I. J. Fatigue, 25 (2003) 585-595
[16] W. S. Sum, E. J. Williams, S. B. Lean, Finite element, critical-plane, fatigue
life prediction of simple and complex contact configurations, International Journal
of Fatigue, 27 (2005) 403-416
[17] K.-C. Liao, Y.-A. Cian, W.-C. Lin, Fatigue life assessment of an innovative
laptop hinge, submitted to Materials and Design (2008)
