 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫期中進度報告 
 
以摩擦攪拌製程研發微奈米細晶鎂基材料及其銲道超塑性 
(子計畫二) (2/3) 
         計畫編號：NSC 95－2221－E－110－049 
執行期限：95 年 08 月 01 日至 96 年 07 月 31 日 
主持人：黃志青  國立中山大學材料科學研究所 
計畫參與人員：李敬仁、杜興蒿、張志溢、裴浩然、王軼農 
  
Texture and weak grain size 
dependence in friction stir 
processed Mg-Al-Zn alloy 
 
Y. N. Wang, C.I. Chang, C.J. Lee, H.K. 
Lin, and J. C. Huang  
Institute of Materials Science and Engineering 
National Sun Yat-Sen University, Kaohsiung, 
Taiwan 804, ROC 
 
Abstract 
  
The Mg-Zn-Al alloy processed by hot extrusion 
typically exhibits strong grain size dependence of 
yield stress. However, the same friction stir 
processed Mg-Zn-Al alloy samples exhibited much 
weaker grain size dependence. The high Schmid 
factor around 0.3 of the friction stir processed 
samples is responsible for the low parameters in the 
Hall-Petch relationship. 
 
Keywords: Magnesium alloys; Friction stir 
processing; Texture; Grain size dependence 
 
Magnesium alloys have achieved increasing 
interest in many areas of transportation vehicles 
industries, because they can gain considerable 
weight reduction of structures. However, the poor 
ductility, due to the limited number of available slip 
systems in the hexagonal structure at room 
temperature could limit their wide applications. On 
the other hand, the grain size strengthening 
efficiency in Mg alloys is much higher than that in 
Al and other alloys [1], meaning that grain 
refinement in Mg alloys is more beneficial. Many 
efforts focusing on the microstructural 
modifications of magnesium alloys have been 
developed in order to enhance and control the 
mechanical properties [2-12].  
In the magnesium alloys, there exists an 
extensive difference in critical resolved shear stress 
(CRSS) between basal and non-basal slip systems 
[13], which gives rise to the severe anisotropic 
mechanical properties. As a result, when the 
wrought magnesium alloys have strong 
crystallographic texture in the microstructures, their 
mechanical properties would be significantly 
influenced by texture in addition to the grain size 
[4-7,12,14]. 
Recently, the FSP researches have demonstrated 
that the effective microstructural homogenization 
and refinement can be achieved in Mg based alloys 
as a result of severe plastic deformation and 
dynamic recrystallization. It has been found that the 
inhomogeneous distribution of texture with a strong 
accumulation of basal planes along the pin column 
surface of the welding tool would also be brought 
out in the stir zone [8,15]. 
There are a large number of reports [6,16-18] on 
the correlation between grain size and mechanical 
properties of magnesium alloys based on the 
Hall-Petch relation. However, the influence of the 
texture on the grain size dependencies of yield 
stress in the FSP Mg alloys has not been clarified. 
In the present study, the mechanical properties 
especially yield stress of the AZ31 alloy processed 
by FSP based on the Hall-Petch relation is 
compared with those processed by hot-extrusion. In 
addition, the effects of textures on the grain size 
dependence of yield stress in the AZ31 Mg alloy are 
analyzed and discussed. 
The as-received AZ31B billet has the chemical 
composition of Mg-3.02Al-1.01Zn-0.30Mn (in 
mass percent). The as-received billet of 178 mm in 
diameter and 300 mm in length possessed nearly 
equiaxed grains around 75 μm. 
FSP on the as-received billets was performed on 
a modified vertical type miller using a FSP tool 
with a shoulder diameter of 18 mm, a pin diameter 
of 6 mm and a pin length of 6 mm. The advancing 
speed of the rotating pin was kept to be 45 or 90 
mm/min, with various rotation controls of the pin 
from 800 to 1400 rpm. The detailed experimental 
producers can be found elsewhere [8]. The 
as-received billet was also extruded at 300oC using 
 4
 
Fig. 2  X-ray pole figures show the texture in: (a) hot 
extruded and (b) FSPed AZ31 samples seen from the 
transverse cross-sectional plane, namely, the working 
(extrusion or welding) direction of the specimen is 
parallel to the normal of the pole figures. For the FSP 
pole figures the ND and TD are vertical and horizontal, 
respectively. 
 
The results of tensile tests at room temperature 
on the extruded and FSP samples are summarized in 
Table 2. It can be seen that the tensile strengths of 
the hot extruded specimens are always higher than 
those of the FSP samples, when the both samples 
have the similar grain size from 2 to 8 μm.  
It is well known that twin deformation often 
occurs in Mg and its alloys at room temperature, 
especially, in Mg alloys with a large grain size 
[19-20]. So far, there has been no report on severe 
twining activity observed in AZ31 Mg alloys with 
fine grains less than 10 μm during the early stage of 
tensile plastic deformation. Therefore, it is 
suggested that the grain size dependency of yield 
stress is not associated with twin deformation, 
leaving that only textures in both the extruded and 
FSP samples would impose strong effects on the 
grain size dependency of yield stress. 
The orientation factor or Schmid factor m is 
defined as m = cosχcosλ, where χ is the angle 
between the normal of the slip plane, e.g. (0002), 
and the stress axis, and λ is the angle between the 
slip direction, e.g. <11 2 0>, and the stress axis.  
When the stress (or loading) axis is parallel to the 
extrusion direction for the extruded samples, the 
normal direction of most (0002) slip planes is 
perpendicular to the stress axis (χ=90°). Therefore, 
the orientation factor m for basal slip in the hot 
extruded samples is nearly null. 
For the FSP samples, the (0002) slip planes can 
be roughly considered as to be a column surface 
surrounded the tool pin in the stir zone. The 
distribution of the (0002) planes in the stir zone is 
illustrated in Fig. 3. When the stress axis is parallel 
to the welding direction for the FSP samples, the 
normal direction of the (0002) slip planes can be 
roughly considered as to continuously change from 
0° to 90° with regard to the stress axis, as shown in 
Fig. 3. 
 
 
For any value of χ, there exists an optimally 
oriented slip direction of <11 2 0> for a grain. This 
optimally oriented slip direction λopt (on the basal 
plane) is lying on the plane defined by the normal 
to the basal plane and stress axis. This will 
corresponds to the smallest possible λ angle for a 
given χ angle, leading to the highest value for cosλ. 
Therefore, the term of the λopt can be expressed as 
cosλopt=cos[(π/2)-χ]=sinχ. Taking into account of 
the symmetry of the <11 2 0> slip direction rotated 
up to ±π/6 about the c-axis of the optimally oriented 
grain, the average of the cosine function from -π/6 
to π/6 can be weighted by the factor 3/π as 
χπλ sin
3cos = .         (1) 
Therefore, the orientation Schmid factor m as a 
function of χ can be written as 
χχπχ sincos
3)( =m .      (2) 
Note that the angle of χ varies from 0° to 90°, the 
mean orientation factor can be obtained as follows:  
3.0sincos32
2/
0
≈= ∫ χχχππ
π
dm .   (3) 
So, the average orientation factor for the main slip 
system of (0002)<11 2 0> in the extruded and FSP 
samples is about 0 and 0.3, respectively.  
It is noted that the mentioned above value of 
orientation factor was calculated on the assumption 
that there is only one ideal basal texture over the 
entire sample (100% volume fraction of basal 
texture). And even for the sharp basal texture itself, 
there would often be some misorientations within 
±10o, the actual orientation factor of the extruded 
sample should be somewhat larger than calculated 
one. On the other hand, the actual orientation factor 
of the FSP sample should be somewhat smaller than 
calculated one in addition to the restriction from the 
 6
Mater. Sci. Lett. 21 (2002) 917. 
[12] S.H.C. Park, Y.S. Sato, H. Kokawa. Scripta Mater. 
49 (2003) 161. 
[13] H. Yoshinaga, R. Horiuchi. Trans. JIM 4 (1963) 1.  
[14] Y.N. Wang, J.C. Huang. Mater. Trans. 44 (2003) 
2276. 
[15] S.H.C. Park, Y.S. Sato, H. Kokawa. Metall. Mater. 
Trans. 34A (2003) 987. 
[16] T. Mohri, T. Nishiwaki, T. Kinoshita, H. Iwasaki, M. 
Mabuchi, M. Nakamura, T. Asahina, T. Aizawa, K. 
Higashi. Mater. Trans. (41) 2000 1154. 
[17] M. Mabuchi, Y. Chino, H. Iwasaki, T. Aizawa, K. 
Higashi. Mater. Trans. 42(2001) 1182. 
[18] S.H.C. Park, Y.S. Sato, H. Kokawa. J. Mater. Sci. 
38 (2003) 4379. 
[19] D. Lahaie, J.D. Embury, M.M. Chadwick G.T. Gray. 
Scripta Metall. Mater. 27 (1992) 139. 
[20] M.A. Meyers, O. Vohringer, V.A. Lubarda. Acta 
Mater. 49 (2001) 4025 
 
-------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
 
On the Hardening of Friction Stir 
Processed Mg-AZ31 Based 
Composites with 5-20% 
Nano-ZrO2 and Nano-SiO2 
Particles 
 
C. I. Chang, Y. N. Wang, H. R. Pei,  
C. J. Lee, X. H. Du, and J. C. Huang 
 
Institute of Materials Science and Engineering; 
National Sun Yat-Sen University, Kaohisung, 
Taiwan 804, ROC 
Abstract 
 
Mg-AZ31 based composites with 10~20 vol% 
nano-sized ZrO2 and 5~10 vol% nano-sized SiO2 
particles were fabricated by friction stir processing 
(FSP). The clusters of the nano-ZrO2 and nano-SiO2 
particles, measuring 180-300 nm in average, were 
relatively uniformly dispersed. The average grain 
size of the Mg matrixes of the composites varied 
within 2-4 μm after four FSP passes. No evident 
interfacial product between the ZrO2 particles and 
Mg matrix was found during the FSP mixing ZrO2 
into Mg-AZ31. However, significant chemical 
reactions occurred at the Mg/SiO2 interface to form 
the Mg2Si phase. The mechanical responses of the 
resulting nano-composites in terms of hardness and 
tensile properties of these Mg/nano-ZrO2 and 
Mg/nano-SiO2 composites were examined and 
compared. The grain refinements and the 
corresponding hardening mechanisms are also 
analyzed and discussed. 
 
Keywords: Friction stir processing; magnesium 
alloy; nano-sized particles; composite 
 
I. Introduction  
 
Metal matrix composites (MMCs) have attracted 
attention due to the increasing need for structural 
materials with high specific strength and stiffness. 
In comparison with the aluminum (Al) alloys, 
magnesium (Mg) alloys have a lower density by 
35%, and have exhibited the promise as structural 
materials in engineering applications which require 
higher specific mechanical properties. Especially, 
the aerospace and automobile industries are actively 
seeking high performance magnesium based alloys. 
One of the major limitations for Mg and its alloys is 
their relatively low elastic modulus. However, this 
limitation can be circumvented by the use of harder 
and stiffer ceramic particles reinforcements. 
Improvements in tribological characteristics, 
dimensional stability, damping capacity, and elevate 
temperature creep properties can be realized by the 
proper selection in type, size elastic modulus and 
volume fraction of the reinforcements. Several 
methods have been developed to fabricate the 
particle reinforcement Mg-based composites, 
including molten metal infiltration1), powder 
metallurgy2), squeeze casting3), stir casting4) and 
spraying forming5).  
Friction-stir welding (FSW) is a solid-state 
joining process initially developed by The Welding 
Institute (TWI) in United Kingdom.6) This process 
is characterized by frictional heating and intense 
material flow originated from the rotation of the 
welding tool, generally creating an elliptical 
nugget-shaped stir zone with a fine recrystallized 
grain structure. Recently, its modification into the 
friction stir processing (FSP) has also been applied 
to modify the microstructure by grain size 
refinements and homogenization of precipitate 
particles in many aluminum and magnesium 
alloys.7-11) In addition, Mishra et al. have mixed a 
second phase into the matrix via FSP to fabricate 
surface composites.12) Lee et al. have mixed 
nano-SiO2 powders into the AZ61 magnesium alloy 
by FSP to successfully fabricate the bulk 
nano-SiO2/AZ61 composite.13) It appears evident 
that FSP can offer another feasible route to 
incorporate ceramic particles into the matrix to 
form bulk composites. 
It is well known that the widely used AZ-series 
Mg alloys for the enclosures or cases of electronic 
appliances are typically soft and are prone to the 
wear problem. The Vicker’s hardness (Hv) of the 
commercial AZ91, AZ61 and AZ31 alloys is 
 8
expected that both the frictional heating and plastic 
strain would lead to the formation of dynamically 
recrystallized grains. These two effects would also 
help in dispersing the inserted nano-ZrO2 and 
nano-SiO2 particles in the stirred zones.  
After one-pass (1P) FSP, the dispersion of the 
nano-particles within the central cross-sectional 
area of the friction stir zone (FSZ) is basically 
uniform, as shown in Fig. 3(a). The observed 
clustered particle size is frequently 0.1-2 μm, much 
larger than the individual nano-particle size (~20 
nm). In addition, some local inhomogeneous areas 
of the particles can be found in the 1P FSP sample, 
as shown in Fig. 3(b). The clustered size of the 
particles after two to four passes (2P to 4P) appears 
to have further reduced, as shown in Fig. 4. 
Meanwhile, with increasing FSP passes, the average 
grain size, dg, of the AZ31 alloy matrix is also 
significantly reduced from around 70 μm in the 
initial billet to 2~4 μm in the 4P FSP samples. At 
higher magnifications, these clustered particles are 
generally located on the grain boundaries or triple 
junctions, and some are embedded inside the grains. 
The summary of the clustered size of the particles 
and the average grain size of the AZ31 alloy matrix 
in the 4P FSP samples are listed in Table 1. 
 
 
Provided that all of the nano-particles are 
individually and uniformly dispersed in the alloy, 
the theoretically estimated particle interspacing Ls 
(=(d/2)(2π/3f)1/2, where f is the particle volume 
fraction), 14) and thus the approximate grain size dg, 
should be less than 0.1 μm. It follows that a certain 
level of local clustering is inevitable, and not all 
nano-particles can restrict grain boundary migration. 
Note that the typical grain size of AZ31 alloy 
(without nano-particles) after the same 4P FSP was 
measured to be around ~6 μm in our separate 
studies. The grain size in the FSP composite 
samples with nano-particles can be refined to 2~4 
μm, indicating that the nano-particles or clusters in 
the matrix did play an effective rule in restricting 
grain boundary migration. 
 
 
Figure 4. SEM/SEI micrographs showing the ZrO2 
particle dispersion with (a) ~10 vol%, and (b) ~20 vol% 
particles, and the SiO2 particle dispersion with (c) ~5 
vol%, and (d) ~10 vol% particles after 4-pass FSP. 
 
 
3.2. XRD results 
   The XRD patterns for the transverses 
cross-sectional plane of the ZrO2 and SiO2 FSP 
composites are presented in Fig. 5. It can be seen 
from Fig. 5(a) that in the Mg-AZ31/ZrO2 composite 
there is no new phase except for a small amount of 
the ZrO2 reinforcement phase (weak peaks) and the 
Mg matrix. This indicates that the crystalline ZrO2 
phase is very stable, no reaction between the ZrO2 
phase and Mg-AZ31 matrix occurred during FSP. 
However, some additional weak peaks, identified as 
Mg2Si and MgO, can be found in the FSP 
Mg-AZ31/SiO2 composite, as shown in Fig. 5(b). It 
is evident that the chemical reaction between the 
SiO2 phase and Mg matrix has occurred during the 
FSP mixing. The reaction in the Mg - SiO2 system 
can be described by the following reaction of 4Mg 
+ SiO2 → 2MgO + Mg2Si. Our previous study also 
confirmed the presence of the Mg2Si and MgO 
phases in the Mg-AZ61/nano-SiO2 composite 
fabricated by the FSP route.13)  
 10
 
 
4.  Discussion 
Predicting the overall mechanical properties of 
the composite is very important for material designs 
and applications. There have been many attempts to 
correlate the overall composite mechanical 
properties with the properties of the composite 
constitutes, for example, the self-consistent 
variation methods18), mean-field theories19), 
shear-lag theory20), finite element method (FEM)21) 
and the rule of mixtures (ROM)22). Among them, 
the simplest and intuitive method for estimating the 
effective mechanical properties in terms of 
constitutes is the ROM. Although the FEM gives 
satisfactory results for problems with the complex 
geometry and the nonlinearity of the materials 
properties, the ROM as a simple and fast solution 
for the simplified model is also useful, in which, the 
Voigt model based on the equal stain assumption 
and the Reuss model based on the equal stress 
assumption have been widely used.  
However, most of the models are derived for 
elastic properties. In addition, the correlation 
between the effective hardness of the composite, 
which is the easiest mechanical property obtained 
by simple testing, and the hardness values of its 
constituent phases are not well established. 
Therefore, there is still argument about the validity 
of the ROM for composites with hard particles, 
especially for plastic properties.  
Figure 8 shows a schematic diagram showing (a) 
the iso-stress (Reuss) model and (b) the iso-strain 
(Voigt) model. The ROMs, such as the equal strain 
treatment which is an upper bound, Eq. (1) below, 
and the equal stress treatment which is a lower 
bound, Eq. (2) below, can be used for estimating the 
effective hardness H of the composite:  
sshhup HfHfH += ,               (1) 
1)//( −+= sshhlow HfHfH ,         (2) 
where, Hh and Hs are the hardness values of the 
hard and soft phases, and fh and fs are the volume 
fractions of the hard and soft phases, respectively. 
The subscripts up and low in H  represent the 
upper and the lower bounds of hardness, 
respectively. 
 
 
More recently, the elastio-plastic finite element 
analysis (FEA) for the conventional unit cell model 
of the uniaxial compression of the composites with 
homogeneously distributed second particles has 
been carried out by Kim.23) Combined with 
experimental results, the validity of the ROM in 
composites with hard particles had been confirmed. 
The FEA results fit better with the iso-strain model 
except for low volume fractions (<30%) of hard 
particles where the FEA results fit closely the 
iso-stress curve. This can be explained by the fact 
that the deformation of the soft matrix is larger than 
