  
2 
 
目錄 
1. 前言              3 
2. 研究目的             3 
3. 研究方法             4 
4. 結果與討論             6 
5. 文獻探討             8 
6. 計畫成果自評            10 
PDF Created with deskPDF PDF Writer - Trial :: http://www.docudesk.com
  
4 
 
i.e., only two points. This study provides a new technique in detecting the lumen diameter 
changes along a section of CCA, which is in general different from previously published works. 
We propose a novel dual dynamic programming combined with some anatomic knowledge into 
the algorithm which makes the detection more robust against the speckle noises. 
This paper is organized as follows: In section II we firstly introduce how ultrasonic images are 
obtained. The difficulties of this study are discussed. Afterwards, the feature extraction is stated 
in details. In section III the results of lumen diameter and IMT detection are demonstrated. We 
finally issue our conclusion in section IV. 
II. MATERIALS, PROBLEMS, AND METHODS 
A. Image acquisition 
An Esaote MyLab ultrasound machine with a high resolution transducer was used for the 
acquisition of the sonographic image sequences. The CCA was examined by turning the neck of 
the study subject slightly to the left side. The transducer was positioned at the lateral side of the 
neck without compression on the inner jugular vein. The lumen was then maximized in the 
longitudinal plane with an optimal image of the near the far vessel wall of the CCA. Thus, both 
near and far wall of CCA can be observed and the video image sequences were saved on a 
recorder for off-line process. All image sequences used in the paper were made in the Department 
of Prevention, Rehabilitation and Sports Medicine, TU Muenchen, University Hospital, Germany. 
 
B. Problem statement 
 
    Figure 1 shows a typical image made by our sonographic modality. The first problem is the 
impact of speckle noises.  It is very common that there are speckle noises in the artery lumen. In 
general, the noises on the near-wall side are stronger than the noises on the far-wall side. It makes 
the detection of near wall intima much more difficult, comparing to the detection of far wall 
intima. Secondly, some diseases such as atherosclerotic plaques change the structure of IM 
complex or the intimal layer. Some changes result in strong echoes such as calcification. When 
the intima is damaged, there are nearly no echoes on the damaged part so that results in an echo 
hole. All of these problems make the intima detection complex. Finally, the target we are 
processing is moving during the image sequence since it is made by dynamic B-mode sonography. 
Therefore we have to face the tracking problem. Fortunately, the target we are tracking does not 
change its shape in a large scale. Moreover, there is no overlapping or shadow problems, which 
might happen very often in the camera videos. In order to conquer problems listed above, we 
propose the novel scheme as follows. 
 
PDF Created with deskPDF PDF Writer - Trial :: http://www.docudesk.com
  
6 
 
where the size of the operator is determined by the pixelsize and anatomical knowledge. For 
instance, the IMT of a normal adult is 0.5mm. Therefore, the mask size should not be larger than 
1111× . This operator is applied only for IMT detection of the far wall. 
Another operator is applied for lumen diameter (LD) detection. The goal of this operator is to 
inhibit the gradient resulted from the adventitial layer. This is because the adventitia might cause 
a larger gradient than the intima does. However, the lumen diameter is determined by the intima 
but not by the adventitia. We thus define the following operator: 

















 −
=
05.00
1
0
010
)(
M
MM
M
LL
farLDf ,         (3) 
Again, the size of the operator is not fixed. It depends on the pixelsize and the anatomical 
knowledge. The goal of this operator is to reduce the impact of the gradient resulted from the 
adventitia. The operator for the near wall LD detection is simply reversed. With this construction, 
we simply reduce the noise impact and make the lumen diameter detection much easier, the IMT 
determination as well.  
The resultant image feature is the composition of gradient images made by different operators: 
,||' xM fIfIh ∗+∗=  (4) 
where I is the original sub-image (ROI), xf  is )( farIMTf  for IMT determination (far wall) and 
xf  is )( farLDf  for LD determination (far wall). After two terms are summarized, h’ might have 
negative values. Therefore, h’ is shifted to have 0 as the smallest value and then divided by the 
largest value so that the final h is 10 ≤≤ h . 
 
D. Dual dynamic programming (DDP) 
 
Structure: An image grid is denoted as ),( yxI  of size NM × , where M and N are the number of 
rows and columns, respectively. Let ),( yxg be the normalized image feature of 
),( yxI with 1),(0 ≤≤ yxg . Suppose the dual curves run from left to right on ),( yxI with two 
y-coordinates 1y and 2y in each column, .,1 21 Myy ≤≤ The node pair is considered instead of the 
single node as that was done in the traditional dynamic programming. We assume that the dual 
curves have minimal and maximal distance between each other. Therefore, the anatomical 
relation is embedded into the dual dynamic programming structure. The details of DDP are 
described in [10]. The dual dynamic programming is applied on the image feature grid h(x,y) 
instead of ),( yxI denoted above in this section. 
III. RESULTS 
Figure 2 shows a typical dynamic B-mode CCA image in one of our image sequence. There are 
total 84 images in this sequence. The GUI allows the user to select a ROI as shown in the 
rectangle area. All image features and DDP are executed on the selected ROI.  
Figure 3 shows the detection results. The parameter settings are: 
,1,85,55,1.0, maxmin21 ====ωω kdd where ),( 21 ωω are used to set the stiffness of the curves, 
),( maxmin dd are the minimal and maximal distance between these two curves, and k denotes how 
far the neighboring nodes can jump and thus it represents the roughness of the curve. Details of 
the parameter description are in [10]. 
PDF Created with deskPDF PDF Writer - Trial :: http://www.docudesk.com
  
8 
 
 
Fig. 4: The detected LD changes along a section. This sequence has 84 images and it lasts more 
than 2 seconds. 
 
 
Fig. 5: One detection result of intima-media thickness. There are total 84 images of this analysis. 
 
 
Figure 5 shows one of the IMT analysis. The length of this section is about 2.18 cm (206 pixels.)  
From the analysis one can observe the IMT changes along the systolic and diastolic cycles. 
 
IV. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION 
In section II we have stated three kinds of problem. In this study, we have proposed a novel 
method in detecting IMT and LD via a dual dynamic programming with a proposed image feature 
extraction scheme. Through a series of experiments we demonstrate the function and novelty of 
this proposed scheme which is able to against the speckle noises in the artery lumen. Although 
the experiment shown in this paper does not include echo holes or calcification, however, we 
have made some other experiments which reveal that this algorithm is able to solve these kinds of 
problem. Due to the page limitation, we are not able to demonstrate all experiments we have 
made. 
This system is practical for physicians making further clinical studies such as finding new factors 
in CV events. 
 
REFERENCES  
1.  Bonithon-Kopp C. et al. (1991), “Risk factors for early carotid atherosclerosis in middle-aged 
french women,” Arterioscler Thromb., 11:966–972. 
2.  O’Leary D., Polak J., Kronmal R., Manolio T., Burke G., and Wolfson  S. J. (1999), 
PDF Created with deskPDF PDF Writer - Trial :: http://www.docudesk.com
  
10 
 
Two papers regarding this work have been published: 
 
1. Da-Chuan Cheng and Xiaoyi Jiang, “Detections of arterial wall in sonographic artery 
images using dual dynamic programming,” IEEE Transactions on Information Technology 
in Biomedicine, vol.12, no. 6, pp. 792-799, 2008. (SCI: IF=1.436) 
2. Da-Chuan Cheng, Qin Pu, Schmidt-Trucksaess, and C. H. Liu, “A novel method in 
detecting CCA lumen diameter and IMT in dynamic B-mode sonography,” the 13th 
International Conference on BioMedical Engineering 2008, December 3 –6, 2008, 
Singapore. 
PDF Created with deskPDF PDF Writer - Trial :: http://www.docudesk.com
 我的報告 
12月5日 
 
大會的海報 
 
PDF Created with deskPDF PDF Writer - Trial :: http://www.docudesk.com
