 1
計畫中文摘要：  
關鍵詞：懸浮帶線、共面波導、集總元件合成電路、縮小化。 
在現今的濾波電路結構中，懸浮帶線與共面波導相對於微帶線而言，較少出現在濾波
電路中。然而共面波導因其信號線與接地面位於同一平面，與半導體元件與集總元件有較
佳之統整性。懸浮帶線封於金屬遮蔽物內，使其具有較佳的電磁干擾耐受度，同時基板上
下之空氣層，也使得接地面之電場分佈較均勻，減少金屬傳導損耗，在高頻的應用上優於
微帶線。另外與共面波導有著相同的性質，懸浮帶線之空氣層結構有效降低電路之等效介
電質常數，使得電路之特性抗對於線寬尺寸之製造誤差寬容度較廣。 
懸浮帶線結構對於濾波電路已被證實為一具有多用途和低損耗的傳輸線系統媒介，不
只傳輸線諧振濾波器可利用此方法製作，甚至結合低損耗和微小電路的似集總元件
（quasi-lumped element）電路濾波器亦可設計之，而共面波導則具有絕佳之元件統整性。
基於上述之優點，本計劃將探討與設計以懸浮基板結構及共面波導之結構所構成的濾波電
路；分別提出利用懸浮帶線結構設計的低通、高通、雙工電路等濾波電路，以及提出以共
面波導之多樣變異結構所組成之濾波電路。研究與計算電路結構中等效於集總元件之電容
與電感效應，並以此設計帶通、低通、高通與多工電路等。同時計劃中將進一步提出適用
於 UWB 系統的帶通濾波電路，同時尋求有效之方法降低電路所佔之面積與減少電路之嵌
入損耗與返回損耗。 
 
計畫英文摘要。 
The suspended striplines were considered as low loss and diversified transmission line. The 
presence of the air gap in the structure reduced the concentration of the electric field near the 
ground metal. Hence, the conducting loss, which might dominate the total loss in the similar 
structures as stripline, microstrip, and slotline, is much less than that of the other likes. Recently, 
the coplanar waveguide (CPW) structure has been widely used in the design of filters, antennas, 
and others in present communication systems. Especially due to the uniplanar feature of CPW, it 
becomes a primary structure implemented in connections between circuit blocks because of 
several advantages such as ease in series and shunt connection without a via hole, insensitive to 
substrate thickness, lower phase velocity variation with frequency or impedance, lower crosstalk 
and parasitic radiation, low dispersion effect, and simple fabrication. 
This proposal is aimed to develop various filtering circuits, which include low pass, high pass, 
band pass filters, and diplexers, using the suspended striplines or the CPWs.  The structural 
discontinuities are analyzed by their analogue capacitance or inductance based on the 
s-parameters extracting from simulations and the circuit layout. A bandpass filter is designed and 
built for the piloting study.  
Keywords: suspended stripline, coplanar waveguide, lumped element synthesis, miniaturization. 
 
Chap. 1   Introduction 
The suspended stripline was first demonstrated by Rooney and Underkoefler [1], and has 
proven to be essential to the design of comparatively low-loss very broad-band filters and 
multiplexers. In literatures [2-4], SSL has proven to be an excellent transmission-line in realizing 
different types of filters owing to its possessed advantages of low-loss, size compactness, and 
high immunity of electromagnetic interference. Unlike a microstrip, a wide range of impedance 
values is achievable in SSL. In addition, compared to either a microstrip or the other 
plan-featured lines, the SSL exhibits a larger cross section which results in lower current densities 
on the metallization and lower electric-field strength in the dielectric and, therefore, reduced 
losses. Literally, metal losses dominate in these types of planar lines. Furthermore, no radiation 
occurs due to the shielding (mount) of the SSL. As a much higher portion of the electromagnetic 
field extends in air, dispersion is low as well. 
 3
correspondingly. Consequently, we can change the narrow inset strip length and the gap between 
the two patches to tune the frequency of the transmission zero. By carefully allocating the 
transmission zero to suppress the spurious response in out-band region, we thus achieves the wide 
stopband performance. 
The circuit has been simulated and optimized by a full-wave electromagnetic simulator, and 
the filter is also emulated by its equivalent circuit model with its frequency response calculated 
using Ansoft Designer 1.0. With little effort, the circuit lumped element parameters shown in Fig. 
1(b) can be easily tuned to well predict filter’s actual performance which leads to the equivalent 
circuit parameters of C1 = 0.15 pF, C2 = 0.645 pF, C3 = 0.059 pF, and L1 = 1.15 nH. As a result, a 
transmission zero at 19.33 GHz is predicted, which agrees well with the one obtained from 
full-wave electromagnetic simulator shown in Fig. 3. In Fig. 3, we observe the good agreement 
between the simulation and the measurement. It should be mentioned that the circuit model does 
not predict well the filter’s higher frequency response closing to the resonator’s first higher 
harmonic. This deficiency in circuit model is very common, since the effect of field distribution, 
which exhibits larger fluctuation far away from the fundamental frequency, might not be exactly 
emulated by one simple lump element representing either the narrow strip or the gap. 
The zoom out of the passband response for the designed filter is shown in Fig. 4. In Fig. 4, the 
discrepancy of f0 between the measurement and simulation is owing to the manufacturing 
tolerance. It is worth mentioning that the filter has achieved about an 8.62 GHz (123.1% FBW) 
stopband BW under a 25-dB out-of-band rejection level, and the measured passband’s minimum 
insertion loss is around -0.69 dB at 7 GHz with a 6.6% (465 MHz) 3-dB FBW. 
B.  Higher Order SSL Filter Design 
The second order SSL filters have been designed based on the prototype one for the 
fundamental resonant frequency of X-band 7 GHz and WLAN 802.11a 5.2 GHz. Fig. 5 shows the 
layout of the filter and its structure dimensions and the equivalent circuit. The equivalent circuit 
element parameters in Fig. 5(b) are C1 = 0.15 pF, C2 = 0.55 pF, C3 = 0.082 pF, L1 = 0.635 nH, and 
L2 = 0.046 nH. The circuit occupies only 10.2 × 5 mm2. This filter consists of two 
quarter-wavelength resonators for higher reject level and wider stopband BW. These two resonant 
elements are modified from prototype SSL BPF by shorting the resonator’s middle to the ground 
via metal strips. In this way, the order of the filter is doubled; a half-wavelength resonator is 
turned into two quarter-wavelength resonators within the same space. As a result, the roll-off 
slopes of the passband edges for the higher order filter are almost twice as the one of the 
prototype. Additionally, good band edge roll-off will advance the selectivity of the circuit. The 
effect of shorting strips is represented by a shunt inductor in the equivalent circuit model.  
In viewing the frequency responses of the mentioned prototype filter, which is considered as a 
one staged structure, we find that the insertion losses and return losses need to be reduced for 
practical applications. To redress this high losses deficiency, the conventional end-coupled feed 
has been replaced by a doubled-side coupled feature for a larger coupling capacitance. In addition, 
the proposed λ/4 SSL BPF have the circuit parameters, which are the inset depth for the series 
inductance, coupled gap for the series capacitance, and the width of strips connecting to the 
ground for the shunt inductance, to tune the created transmission zeros in the higher frequency. 
By carefully allocating these zeros, we achieve the wider stopband shown in Fig. 6. As a result, in 
Fig. 6, two zeros are created at the high end of the stop-band region to increase the rejection level 
and the BW of stopband. Also from observing the Fig. 6, the upper rejection BW of 24.94 GHz 
(227% FBW) with more than 25-dB degradation for the higher order SSL BPF is obtained. The 
measured passband’s minimum insertion loss is around -0.62 dB at 7.045 GHz with 9.4% FBW. 
Again, the curves of simulations and measurements show good agreement for this filter design. 
According to above-mentioned filter design, a similar SSL filter is built with the center 
frequency placed at 5.2 GHz for applications of WLAN 802.11a. The dimensions of the circuit 
are measured only 12.2 × 5 mm2. For conciseness of this paper, the circuit layout, equivalent 
circuit model, and the frequency response are omitted here. Not shown in figure, the filter has 
achieved about an 18.735 GHz (360.3% FBW) stopband BW under a 25-dB out-of-band rejection. 
The measured passband’s minimum insertion loss is around -1.15 dB at 5.2 GHz with a 6.6% 
 5
List of Figures (with captions): 
 
 
 
(a) 
3C
1C 1C
1L
2C 2C
 
 
(b) 
Fig. 1   (a) The layout of prototype SSL BPF (without the holder and the mount) and (b) the 
equivalent circuit model. 
 
 
 
        
(a)                                  (b) 
Fig. 2   The photograph of experimental circuit of Fig. 1. (a) Top side view (with the mount) 
and (b) bottom side view (with the holder). 
 
 7
 
(a) 
1C 1C
3C 3C
2C 2C
1L 1L
2L
 
(b) 
Fig. 5  (a) The layout of second order SSL BPF (without the holder and the mount) and (b) the 
equivalent circuit model. 
 
 
1 5 9 13 17 21 25
Frequency (GHz)
-100
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
M
ag
ni
tu
de
 (d
B
)
Simulation
MeasurementS11
S21
 
Fig. 6   The simulated and measured frequency responses for the filter of Fig. 5. 
 
成果論文： 
1. Pow-Wen Chen, Min-Hua Ho, and Wanchu Hong, “Compact Dual-Band Filter Design Using 
Crossly Coupled λ/4 SIRs Embedded with Spur-Line for WLAN Applications,” Microwave 
and Optical Technology Lett., vol. 50, no. 11, pp. 2807-2810, Nov. 2008. (SCI) 
2. Li-Jing Lin, Min-Hua Ho, and Wei-Qin Xu, “Design of Compact Suspended Stripline 
Bandpass Filters with Wide Stopband,” Microwave and Optical Technology Lett., vol. 50, no. 
4, pp. 865-868, Apr. 2008. (SCI) 
 9
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
本專利具有產業利用性，在通訊技術領域如 WLAN 無線網路、ISM
頻段或其他更高頻段等通訊產品均可應用本技術。 
技術特點 
帶通濾波器是無線通訊前端電路不可或缺之元件，懸浮帶線的傳輸
特性如高抗拒電磁干擾、低輻射、與低頻散效應等構成此帶通濾波
電路的優點。同時其似集總元件設計形式使得本案之微波頻帶之濾
波電路設計，能以一般之集總元件濾波電路方式一樣設計，同時其
頻率響應可由其等效之集總元件濾波電路響應來預測。本電路更具
備能在止帶頻帶區植入一可控制之傳輸零點，使得本電路具備在止
帶區指定某一頻段額外之訊號壓制能力。 
推廣及運用的價值 
預估在無線網路卡等需要多頻操作的系統應用中，能降低電路訊號
損耗與成本、提高射頻電路操作特性，並達成產品縮小化之目標。
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
placed with double-sided coupled structure for a larger coupling
gap capacitance because both sides of the SSL substrate can be
used for circuit patterns. The insertion losses and return losses of
the ﬁlter will be reduced by the larger capacitive values of en-
hanced double-sided coupling.
Equivalent circuit elements are developed with the values of
lump elements extracted from respective parts of the SSL struc-
ture. The shielding of SSL also has been described exactly in the
next section. Two BPFs are developed based on the compact
design of the SSL structure. The SSL ﬁlters have been designed for
the fundamental resonant frequency of X-band 7 GHz and WLAN
802.11a 5.2 GHz. Measurements are conducted to verify the circuit
performance. A method that demonstrates harmonic suppression
for the out-of-band performance improvement is also given in this
paper. Finally, comparison between simulated and measured re-
sults is presented for the proposed ﬁlter, and the conclusion is
given. Good conformance is well-kept between simulation and
measurement during this contrivance.
2. SSL FILTERS DESIGN AND SAMPLE RESULTS
2.1. Prototype SSL Filter Design
The ﬁlter is placed on either side of a suspended substrate in a
metal channel. A prototype compact SSL BPF was designed for a
pioneering study. Figure 1(a) shows the layout of the ﬁlter and the
dimensions, and Figure 1(b) gives the equivalent circuit model.
The circuit is built on a RT/Duroid 5880 substrate of 0.254 mm
thickness with dielectric constant of 2.2. The substrate that sup-
ports the circuit of Figure 1(a) is suspended on the middle of the
rectangular waveguide (with the cross section of 5  4.25 mm2),
which can be visualized from the photo of the experimental circuit
as shown in Figure 2. The circuit measures only 8.1  3.8 mm2,
whose longitudinal dimension is about 1/5 of one free-space wave-
length at f0. Without doubt, this circuit can be further minimized if
it was built on a substrate of higher dielectric constant.
The ﬁlter belongs to a half-wavelength resonant circuit that is
capacitively coupled to the strip conductor of 50  SSL. This
double-sided coupling structure can be emulated by the series
capacitors C1 as shown in Figure 1(b). The coupling between the
SSL’s central strip and its bilateral grounds can be represented by
the shunt capacitors C2. The vertical oriented gaps between the two
patches of the central strip also provide a series capacitive cou-
pling between them, with capacitor C3 representing the coupling
effect. The narrow inset strip connecting the two patches is char-
acterized by the series inductor L1. According to the circuit model
shown in Figure 1(b), the center frequency can be found as
(a)
3C
1C 1C
1L
2C 2C
(b)
Figure 1 (a) The layout of the prototype SSL BPF (without the holder
and the mount) and (b) the equivalent circuit model. [Color ﬁgure can be
viewed in the online issue, which is available at www.interscience.
wiley.com]
Figure 2 The photograph of the experimental circuit shown in Figure 1.
(a) Top side view (with the mount) and (b) bottom side view (with the
holder). [Color ﬁgure can be viewed in the online issue, which is available
at www.interscience.wiley.com]
866 MICROWAVE AND OPTICAL TECHNOLOGY LETTERS / Vol. 50, No. 4, April 2008 DOI 10.1002/mop
almost twice as that of the prototype. Additionally, a good band
edge roll-off will advance the selectivity of the circuit. The effect
of shortening the strips is represented by a shunt inductor in the
equivalent circuit model.
In viewing the frequency responses of the aforementioned
prototype ﬁlter, which is considered as a one-staged structure, we
ﬁnd that the insertion losses and return losses need to be reduced
for practical applications. To redress this high losses deﬁciency,
the conventional end-coupled feed has been replaced by a double-
sided coupled feature for a larger coupling capacitance. In addi-
tion, the proposed /4 SSL BPF have the circuit parameters, which
are the inset depth for the series inductance, coupled gap for the
series capacitance, and the width of strips connecting to the ground
for the shunt inductance, to tune the created transmission zeros in
the higher frequency. By carefully allocating these zeros, we
achieve the wider stopband shown in Figure 6. As a result, in
Figure 6, two zeros are created at the high end of the stopband
region to increase the rejection level and the BW of stopband. Also
from observing the Figure 6, the upper rejection BW of 24.94 GHz
(227% FBW) with more than 25-dB degradation for the higher
order SSL BPF is obtained. The measured passband’s minimum
insertion loss is around 0.62 dB at 7.045 GHz with 9.4% FBW.
Again, the curves of simulations and measurements show good
agreement for this ﬁlter design.
According to the ﬁlter design mentioned earlier, a similar SSL
ﬁlter is built with the center frequency placed at 5.2 GHz for
applications of WLAN 802.11a. The dimensions of the circuit are
measured as only 12.2 5 mm2. For conciseness of this paper, the
circuit layout, equivalent circuit model, and the frequency re-
sponse are omitted here. The ﬁlter has achieved about an 18.735
GHz (360.3% FBW) stopband BW under a 25-dB out-of-band
rejection (not shown in the ﬁgure). The measured passband’s
minimum insertion loss is around 1.15 dB at 5.2 GHz with a
6.6% FBW.
3. CONCLUSIONS
Two compact BPF designs based on lumped elements of SSL
structures have been presented in this paper. The ﬁlters were
designed and optimized by a full-wave electromagnetic simulator
to operate at a frequency of 7 GHz. Such circuit structure can also
be designed at a center frequency of 5.2 GHz. The behaviors of
these ﬁlters can be explained by the equivalent lumped-element
circuits derived from their circuit layouts. Simulation and mea-
surement were found to be in good agreement. Most attractive of
all, the designed higher order SSL ﬁlter has achieved about a 227%
(15.99 GHz) stopband FBW under a 25-dB out-of-band rejection,
and the measured passband’s minimum insertion loss is around
0.62 dB at 7.045 GHz with 9.4% FBW. Compared with the
prototype SSL ﬁlter, this modiﬁed ﬁlter (higher order ﬁlter) en-
hances the stopband performance by increasing the stopband BW
from 8.62 to 18.735 GHz, under the 25-dB rejection level. It is
believed that this compact design of SSL BPFs using either a /2
or two /4 resonators with wide stopband is particularly suitable
for the modern wireless communication systems.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The authors acknowledge the valuable comments provided by Dr.
C.-I. G. Hsu of Da-Yeh University and Prof. C.-H. Lee of National
Changhua University of Education. The support of National Sci-
ence Committee of R.O.C. under the grant no. NSC 96-2221-E-
018-001 is also acknowledged.
REFERENCES
1. J.P. Rooney and L.M. Underkoﬂer, Printed circuit integration of micro-
wave ﬁlters, Microwave J 21 (1978), 68-73.
2. C.I. Mobbs and J.D. Rhodes, A generalized Chebyshev suspended
substrate stripline bandpass ﬁlter, IEEE Trans Microwave Theory Tech
MTT-35 (1983), 397-402.
3. W. Schwab, F. Bo¨gelsack, and W. Menzel, Multilayer suspended strip-
line and coplanar line ﬁlters, IEEE Trans Microwave Theory Tech 46
(1994), 1403-1407.
4. J.D. Rhodes, Suspended substrate ﬁlters and multiplexers, 16th Eur
Microwave Conf Dig 1 (1986), 8-18.
5. W. Menzel and A. Balalem, Quasi-lumped suspended stripline ﬁlters
and diplexers, IEEE Trans Microwave Theory Tech 53 (2005), 3230-
3237.
6. W. Menzel, M.S.R. Tito, and L. Zhu, Low-loss ultra-wideband (UWB)
ﬁlters using suspended stripline, In: Proceedings of Asia-Paciﬁc Micro-
wave Conference, 2005, pp. 2148-2151.
7. W. Menzel, A novel miniature suspended stripline ﬁlter, In: Proceed-
ings of European Microwave Conference, 2003, pp. 1047-1050.
8. L.-J. Lin, M.-H. Ho, and W.-Q. Xu, Design of compact CPW bandpass
ﬁlters with wide stopband, Microwave Opt Technol Lett 49 (2007), pp.
973-976.
© 2008 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
PORTABLE BIOMETRIC SYSTEM OF
HIGH-SENSITIVITY ABSORPTION
DETECTION
Der-Chin Chen
Department of Electrical Engineering, Feng Chia University, 100
Wenhwa Road, Taichung, Taiwan; Corresponding author:
kanatasan.tw@yahoo.com.tw
Received 5 September 2007
ABSTRACT: The purpose of this paper is to design a portable biomet-
ric system that can measure the amount of absorption of the visible col-
limated beam that passes by the sample to know the absorbance of the
sample. The measured object in the system is the gold colloid that the
sample produces after a biochemical reaction. After measuring the ab-
sorbance of the gold colloid, we can obtain the concentrations of the
waiting-measured sample and further obtain the concentration of chemical
solution contained in the sample. Normal single optical path system has a
sensitivity of 0.5%.The process of the double optical path method increases
the opportunities that the visible collimated beam is absorbed, which raise
1 5 9 13 17 21 25
Frequency (GHz)
-100
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
M
ag
ni
tu
de
(d
B
)
Simulation
MeasurementS11
S21
Figure 6 The simulated and measured frequency responses for the ﬁlter
shown in Figure 5
868 MICROWAVE AND OPTICAL TECHNOLOGY LETTERS / Vol. 50, No. 4, April 2008 DOI 10.1002/mop
among the area between SIRs. In our ﬁlter design, disconnecting
the middle stages /4 SIRs could lend the ﬁlter a better ﬂexibility
in circuit layout which might reduce the unused circuit space and
reach to a worthy compact design. In addition, a tapped-line I/O is
employed in the ﬁlter design to further save the circuit space.
A cross-coupling between the input and the output is also
adopted in the proposed circuit to create transmission zeros by the
passband skirts for providing a sharper passband edge roll-off.
Each of the I/O SIRs is embedded with a spur-line next to the
tapped-line to suppress the unwanted harmonic beyond the pass-
bands or to improve the stopband rejection. Experiments are con-
ducted to verify the design. The measurement and simulation are
in a good agreement.
2. FILTER DESIGN
The fundamental structure of a /4 SIR is formed from cascading
two microstrip lines of different impedances. The far end of each
wider microstrip line shorts to the ground thru a via hole to meet
the boundary condition needed at the SIR’s quarter-wavelength
resonance. For design simplicity, the electric lengths of the distinct
microstrip lines are equal. The second and the third harmonic
frequency of this structure, f1 and f2, respectively, can be evaluated
by [7]
f1
f0

tan1Rz 1 (1)
f2
f0

tan1Rz 1 (2)
where f0 denotes the fundamental resonant frequency and RZ 
Z2/Z1 stands for the impedance ratio of SIR. According to Eqs. (1)
and (2), the frequencies of second and the third resonance are
controlled by the value of Rz. Hence, the f0 is set to 2.45 GHz, and
f1 is located to 5.5 GHz for dual-band WLAN applications. We
also put the undesired harmonic f2 remote from the higher pass-
band.
Figure 1 shows the proposed ﬁlter structure. The structure of
each grounded /4 SIR is composed of two microstrip lines of
different width. The characteristic impedance (denoted as Z1) of
the narrow microstrip equals 50 , and the one of the wider
microstrip is 22.4  (Z2). The far end of Z2 section shorts to the
ground thru a via hole and one of the Z1 remains opened. The
electrical lengths of the two microstrip lines (composing the /4
SIRs) are initially set to the same. The 3-dB fractional BW (FBW)
of the ﬁlter can be calculated from the circuit’s external Q factor,
Qe, as [8]
Qe
g1

(3)
where the  stands for the 3-dB FBW, and g1 denotes the second
element value of the low pass chebyshev ﬁlter prototype (in our
case g0  1). In Figure 2, we depict the two different signal paths
existed in structure of Figure 1. In the ﬁlter design, the crossly
coupled route between the input and output is the path 2 in which
the signal is coupled from the input SIR to the output one or vice
versa thru a small gap of width S1. Not shown in ﬁgure, that signal
thru the path 2 and the one from alternative path both arrive at the
output port with equal ﬁeld strength but opposite phase to create
the transmission zeros. Three transmission zeros are produced and
one of them occurs by the ﬁrst passband’s upper skirt, whereas
others reside by each side of the second passband skirts. These
transmission zeros dramatically enhance ﬁlter’s signal selectivity
and increase the signal rejection in stopband.
Note here, the ﬁeld existed in the cross-coupling gap might be
isolated from the vicinity structure when we place the shorting via
holes of the middle stages SIRs close to the cross-coupling gap.
The shorting via produces a grounding effect virtually isolates the
ﬁelds around itself from the vicinity cross-coupling gap. Thus, the
cross-coupling effect is solely equivalent to a series capacitance
shown in Figure 2, and frequencies of the transmission zeros
mainly depend on the coupling gap width. It is worth to mention
that the grounding effect caused by the vias of the I/O SIRs might
also weaken the signal strength coupling to/from the middle stage
SIRs. This drawback might be alleviated by increasing the cou-
pling edge dimension, which is accomplished by adding more
coupling edges obtained from the bended narrower sections of
SIRs shown in Figure 1. The gap width (S4) next to the added
coupling edges S4 is narrower than the other one of S2. Besides,
each of the I/O SIRs vias is situated by the noncoupled side such
that the weak coupling inﬂuence due to the grounding isolation
effect might be further relieved. The bending of SIRs also saves
the circuit space. To further reduce the circuit space, the tapped-
lines shown in Figure 1 are utilized in feed structure to replace theFigure 1 The structure of the proposed /4 SIRs dual-band ﬁlter
Figure 2 The alternative signal paths for the structure of Figure 1
2808 MICROWAVE AND OPTICAL TECHNOLOGY LETTERS / Vol. 50, No. 11, November 2008 DOI 10.1002/mop
4. CONCLUSIONS
A compact fourth-order /4 SIRs BPF is proposed to serve the
dual-band purpose for the WLAN applications. A very good agree-
ment is observed between the measurement and the simulation.
The measured FBWs (minimum insertion losses) are found to be
14.8% (0.9 dB) and 9.9% (1.2 dB) for the ﬁrst and second
passband, respectively. The obtained insertion losses are consid-
ered to be rather small compared with those of ordinary three
staged parallel-coupled-lines ﬁlters. The achieved FBWs are wide
enough to cover the communication channels among 2.45/5.5 GHz
ISM bands. Results show that separated /4 SIRs in circuit’s
middle stages can achieve the circuit a smaller size than those of
end-to-end connected SIRs designs. In addition, the signal selec-
tivity of the proposed BPF can be improved by the transmission
zeros arisen from the cross-coupling mechanism. The embedded
spur-lines also increase the stopband BW and do not exhibit
unfavorable inﬂuence to the performance in the passbands. The
proposed ﬁlter obtains 29% size reduction comparing with the one
also developed from /4 SIRs operating at the same frequency
bands.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors are grateful to Prof. C.-I. G. Hsu of Da-Yeh University
and to Prof. C.-H. Lee of National Changhua University of Edu-
cation for many valuable discussions. The support of National
Science Council of ROC under the grant no. NSC 96–2221-E-
018–001 is also acknowledged.
REFERENCES
1. M. Makimoto and S. Yamashita, Bandpass ﬁlter using parallel coupled
stripline stepped impedance resonators, IEEE Trans Microwave Theory
Tech 28 (1980), 1413–1417.
2. J.-T. Kuo, T.-H. Yeh, and C.-C. Yeh, Design of microstrip bandpass
ﬁlter with a dual-passband response, IEEE Trans Microwave Theory
Tech 53 (2005), 1331–1337.
3. S.-C. Lin, Y.-S. Lin, and C.-H. Chen, Extended-stopband bandpass ﬁlter
using both half- and quarter-wavelength resonators, IEEE Microwave
Wireless Compon Lett 16 (2006), 43–45.
4. C.-H. Lee, Y.-H. Hsieh, and M.-H. Ho, Design of compact dual-band
bandpass ﬁlters using /2 and combined /4 stepped-impedance reso-
nators, Microwave Opt Technol Lett 49 (2007), 2703–2706.
5. P.-W. Chen, H.-H. Ho, M.-H. Ho, and C.-H. Lee, Dual-band ﬁlter
design of combined half and quarter wavelength SIRs for WLAN
applications, Microwave Opt Technol Lett 50 (2008), 13–15.
6. Y.-H. Hsieh, C.-H. Lee, C.-I. G. Hsu, Design of spur-line-loaded
cross-coupled dual-band bandpass ﬁlter with wide upper-end stopband,
Microwave Opt Technol Lett 50 (2008), 691–694.
7. H. Miyake, S. Kitazawa, T. Ishizaki, T. Yamada, and Y. Nagatomi, A
miniaturized monolithic dual band ﬁlter using ceramic lamination tech-
nique for dual mode portable telephones, IEEE MTT-S Int Microwave
Symp Dig 2 (1997), 789–792.
8. J.-S. Hong and M. J. Lancaster, Microstrip ﬁlters for RF/microwave
applications, Singapore, Wiley, 2001, Ch. 5.
© 2008 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
BROADBAND INTERNAL ANTENNA BY
COMBINATION OF A LOOP TYPE
ANTENNA AND A SHORTED
MONOPOLE
Su Bin Park,1 Sung Min Kim,2 and Woon Geun Yang1
1 Department of Electronics Engineering, University of Incheon 177
Dowha-dong, Nam-gu, Incheon, 402–749, Republic of Korea
2 Hardware Team, R/D Laboratory, KTF Technology 265–3 Seohyun-
dong, Bundang-gu, Sungnam-city, 463–769, Republic of Korea;
Corresponding author: k980811@incheon.ac.kr
Received 27 February 2008
ABSTRACT: Broadband internal antenna by combination of a loop
type antenna and a shorted monopole is proposed for GSM/GPS/DCS/
PCS/UMTS/WiBro/WLAN applications. The proposed antenna shows
wide impedance bandwidths as well as good radiation patterns and high
antenna gains, despite very small volume. And wide impedance band-
width can be achieved without increasing the implementation complexity
compared with that of existing antennas. © 2008 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Microwave Opt Technol Lett 50: 2810–2812, 2008; Published online in
Wiley InterScience (www.interscience.wiley.com). DOI 10.1002/mop.
23841
Key words: internal antenna; loop type antenna; shorted monopole
1. INTRODUCTION
Recently, it is strongly required for the mobile station to cover
multi-band with a single internal type antenna. Also there are
strong demands for small, lightweight, and compact mobile sta-
tions. These demands also require the development of a low-proﬁle
internal antenna with superior performances in terms of the im-
pedance bandwidth and gain. However, the design of an internal
antenna is technically challenging due to the limited antenna
volume. To increase the impedance bandwidth of an internal
antenna, several approaches have been proposed by using two
layer shorted patches [1], PIFA(Planar Inverted-F Antenna) with
PIL(Planar Inverter-L) patch having bent feed line [2] and imped-
ance matching networks [3]. These approaches provide wide band-
width characteristics, but their implementation complexity is much
higher than that of conventional internal antennas. In this Letter,
we propose a novel broadband internal antenna based on combi-
nation of a loop type antenna and a shorted monopole for
GSM(0.880–0.960 GHz), GPS(1.575 GHz), DCS (1.710–1.880
GHz), PCS(1.880–1.990 GHz), UMTS(1.920–2.170 GHz),
WiBro(2.300–2.390 GHz), and WLAN(2.400–2.483 GHz) fre-
quency bands. The proposed antenna can be implemented easily
and provides improved impedance bandwidths with a suitable
simple structure for practical application.
2. ANTENNA CONFIGURATION
The geometry of the proposed antenna is shown in Figure 1. We
used a FR4 substrate with the thickness of 1 mm and relative
permittivity of 4.4. The proposed antenna consists of a centre
feeding and shorting point, and a radiating element of the loop type
antenna and a shorted monopole. The proposed antenna has a
volume of 37  14  3.5 mm3 and the ground plane is 42  75
mm2. The resonant element of the lower band is a shorted mono-
pole and that of the higher band is a loop type antenna. To achieve
a resonant mode at lower band, the length of the shorted monopole
starting from the feeding point to the centre arm end point is
chosen to be about 76.4 mm corresponding approximately to
quarter wavelength. The resonant frequency of lower band can be
2810 MICROWAVE AND OPTICAL TECHNOLOGY LETTERS / Vol. 50, No. 11, November 2008 DOI 10.1002/mop
