Decontamination of Wastewater Containing Wafer Cleaning 
Solvent PGMEA by Continuous Supercritical Water Oxidation 
 
 
Jya-Jyun Yu＊, Bo-Chih Wu, Kung-Ying Li, Li-Sheng Chang, Chi-Wei Ge 
 
 
Department of Environmental Engineering and Science, Feng-Chia University, Taichung, Taiwan  
＊Correspondence: jjyu@fcu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract 
 
This study was conducted to investigate the  destruction removing efficiency (DRE) of wastewater 
containing PGMEA by SCWO.  Auto ignition temperature (AIT) of PGMEA plays a key factor in 
understanding the nature of combustion chemistry and suitability for SCWO process.  A 200mL 
Inconel-625 SCWO reactor with continuous flow of supercritical water was used in this work.  The present 
works were done at the sub- and supercritical conditions of water.  All SCWO experiments were performed 
at temperatures from 200~460℃ and pressure was maintained at 23~27MPa.  The DRE of PGMEA 
depended upon both SCWO reaction temperature and concentration of PGMEA.  Destruction removing 
efficiency of PGMEA was evaluated by the total organic carbon (TOC) and chemical oxygen demand 
(COD) conversion of treated water.  At the concentration of 2.67~13.33% (v/v) and temperature of reaction 
below the AIT 354℃ of the PGMEA, the TOC and COD removal were around 60~80%.   As reaction 
temperature raise above the auto ignition temperature of PGMEA, the conversion of TOC and COD of 
treated wastewater was near 100%.   
 
Key words: SCWO, PGMEA, AIT, TOC, COD, DRE 
1. Introduction 
 
Supercritical water oxidation (SCWO) presents green technology for the treatment of industrial 
wastewater.  Water at room temperature possesses high dielectric constant with excellent solvating power 
for inorganic salts.  However, hot and compressed water behaves much more like organic solvent because 
the diminishing of hydrogen bonding strength.  The superior characteristics in the supercritical state of 
water are that the homogenous reaction takes place between the oxidizable substances and oxygen.  The 
mass transfer resistance between oxidant and water is eliminated, therefore, the oxidation kinetic 
* Manuscript
 
3. Experimental procedure 
PGMEA is mixed with water to simulate the wastewater.  The removal of total organic carbon (TOC) and 
chemical oxygen demand (COD) are used to evaluate the destruction removing efficiency of PGMEA from 
wastewater.  Firstly, the pre-heated water is pressurized and fed into the reactor by a diaphragm pump.  
The PGMEA is then pressurized and flows into the flow system by ISCO pump.   At the reactor entrance the 
concentration of PGMEA of 2.67%, 5.33%, 8.0%, 10.67% and 13.33% were performed in our SCWO 
experiments.  Oxygen, which used as oxidant was compressed by an air supplied from a10 hp air cylinder 
(10~90mL/min) is pressurized by a booster (AGT 14/62, 17~42mL/min).  A constant system pressure in the 
reactor was maintained at 23~27MPa through the experiment and sufficient air is used as the oxidant in 
this work.  The pre-heated water, air and PGMEA are mixed in reactor, which is made of Inconel-625 with 
internal volume of 200mL in which submerged in a furnace which is insulated in a cylinder cage of ceramic 
board.  The residence time for influent is about 5s to 20s in the reactor.  The reaction temperature mainly 
between 200 to 460℃ was applied to the reactor.  The temperature was monitored accurately by using a 
thermocouple.  The treated solution effused from the reactor is cooled and flows into a gas-liquid separator 
(GLS) where the mixture of carbon dioxide generated in the process and the residue of the excess air is 
separated from the liquid effluent.  A control valve (CV) installed on the gas effluent at the top of the 
separator regulates the pressure of the system, and a needle valve connected at the bottom of the 
separator constantly discharges the liquid effluent to maintain the liquid level in the separator.   The process 
water leaving the reactor after SCWO was collected and characterized by its pH value, and percent DRE 
based on TOC (Apollo 9000 TOC combustion analyzer) and COD (dichromate oxidation method) 
measurement of treated water.  The DRE of PGMEA is then calculated as (TOCi－TOCf)/ TOCi × 100%.  
Where TOCi and TOCf are the concentrations at the reactor inlet and outlet, respectively. 
 
4. Results and discussion 
4.1. Auto ignition temperature and SCWO 
 
The auto ignition temperature of a substance is the lowest temperature at which a substance will ignite 
spontaneously without an external source of ignition, such as a spark.  However, at the AIT an activation 
energy supply is required to initiate the combustion of the substance, and the SCWO creates a good 
condition for auto ignition of a substance.  The general objective of my SCWO study is to relate the 
combustion characteristics with the physical properties of organic solvent.  In recent years a growing 
measured initial pH of PGMEA aqueous solution is found around 4.5±0.3, after the SCWO the pH drops to 
2.7±0.3.  If the concentrations of PGMEA exceed 10%, the DRE went down.  This is probably due to the 
oxygen is not sufficient enough in the reaction system for the degradation of elevated concentration of 
PGMEA, therefore, air supply plays a very important role in the SCWO system.  
5. Conclusions 
 
In this preliminary work, the treatment of wastewater containing PGMEA by SCWO is found feasible.  
The concentration of PGMEA from 2.67~13.33% is prepared for simulated wastewater and the 
experiments are conducted in a continuous supercritical water flow system.  Reaction temperature at the 
sub and supercritical conditions were used in this study.  Reactor’s pressure was controlled at 23~27MPa 
with overwhelming excess air pumped into the system.  Our studies have showed that PGMEA had the 
best DRE of TOC and COD at the concentrations of PGMEA of 2.67%~8.0%.  After auto ignition 
temperature 354℃ of PGMEA, the destruction of PGMEA was greatly enhanced and near total 
degradation.  The present SCWO works provide a green method for decontamination of wastewater 
containing organic solvent.  Our studies also provide an invaluable idea for the prediction of degradation 
completeness of organic solvent at its auto ignition temperature by SCWO method. 
 
Acknowledgements 
 
The author gratefully acknowledges the National Science Council of Taiwan (ROC), for the financial 
support under the Grant No. NSC: 94-2211-E-035-008. 
 
References 
 
[1] E. D. Lavric, H. Weyten, J. De Ruyck, V. Plesu, V. Lavric, Delocalized organic pollutant destruction 
through a self-sustaining supercritical water oxidation process ,  Energy Conversion and 
Management , 46 (2005) 1345-1364. 
[2] A. Shanableh, Production of useful organic matter from sludge using hydrothermal treatment, Wat. 
Res., 34 (3) (2000) 945-951.  
[3] Fr´ ed´eric Vogel, Joanna L. DiNaro Blanchard, Philip A. Marrone, Steven F. Rice Paul A. Webley, 
William A. Peters, Kenneth A. Smith, Jefferson W. Tester, Critical review of kinetic data for the 
oxidation of methanol in supercritical water,  J. of Supercritical Fluids, 34 (2005) 249-286. 
[4] M. J. Cocero, E. Alonso, R. Torı´o, D. Vallelado, T. Sanz, and F. Fdz-Polanco, Supercritical water 
oxidation (SCWO) for poly(ethylene terephthalate) (PET) Industry effluents.  Ind. Eng. Chem. Res., 39 
(2000) 4652-4657. 
[5] H. Daimon, N. Sato, Y. Sa wahara, and K. Fujie, Applications of waste recycling technologies using 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure(s)
Click here to download high resolution image
  
 
 
 
 
Towards a New Phase 
 
 
 
November 5 – 8, 2006 
Kyoto international Conference Hall, 
Kyoto, Japan 
                                  Decontamination of Wastewater Containing Wafer 
                         Cleaning Solvent PGMEA by Continuous Supercritical  
                         Water Oxidation 
 
                                    Jya-Jyun Yu1＊, Yu-Ling Wei2 , Kong-Hwa Chiu3 
                                                         1Department of Environmental Engineering and Science, Feng-Chia University, 
                                    Taichung, Taiwan 
                                                          2Department of Environmental Science and Engineering, Tung-Hai University,  
Taichung, Taiwan 
                                                         3Department of Natural Science, National Science Council, Taipei, Taiwan 
                                     Correspondence: jjyu@fcu.edu.tw 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
The propylene glycol mono-methyl ether acetate (PGMEA) is used widely as cleaning solvent by electronic wafer 
manufacture plant.  As a result, a contaminated water containing PGMEA may be generated.  However, degradation of 
elevated concentration PGMEA may be restricted by traditional biological treatment.  Supercritical water oxidation is an 
innovative technology to the destruction organic solvent in aqueous solution.  Because the water transformation 
characteristic which above its critical point (Tc=374 and Pc=22.1Mpa) with overwhelming air supply can cause highly 
oxidize efficiency without generation of a secondary pollutant.   This study was conducted to investigate the destruction 
removing efficiency (DRE) of wastewater containing PGMEA by SCWO.  A 200mL Inconel-625 SCWO reactor with 
continuous flow of supercritical water was used in this study.  The experimental conditions were controlled above the 
critical point of water.  Reactor’s temperature was in the ranges of 200~460℃ and pressure was maintained 23~27MPa.  
The DRE of PGMEA depended upon both reactor’s temperature and concentration of PGMEA.  Destruction removing 
efficiency of PGMEA was evaluated by the total organic carbon (TOC) and chemical oxygen demand (COD) of water.  
At the concentration 2.67~13.33% (v/v) and reactor’s temperature below the auto ignition temperature (AIT) 354℃ of 
the PGMEA, the TOC and COD removal were around 60~80%.   As reaction temperature raise above the AIT of PGMEA, 
the DRE of TOC and COD was >98%.  The SCWO method presently used in our lab, optimum concentration for 
PGMEA degradation is 2.67~8.0% (v/v).  As SCWO reactor’s temperature above the AIT of PGMEA, oxidation for 
PGMEA could be greatly enhanced and resulted in highly destruction efficiency by SCWO method.  
 
Key words: SCWO, Propylene Glycol Mono-methyl Ether Acetate (PGMEA) 
 
1 INTODUCTION 
 
In the past decade, the use of pressurized water above its critical state provides a green process for wastewater treatment.  
Water at room temperature possesses high dielectric constant with excellent solvating power for inorganic salts.  However, 
hot and compressed water behaves much more like organic solvent because the diminishing of hydrogen bonding 
strength.  The superior characteristics in the supercritical state, mass transfer resistance between oxidant and water is 
eliminated, therefore, the oxidation kinetic becomes extremely fast.  Water near or above its critical point can cause 
highly oxidized efficiency.  Advantages of SCWO are environmentally benign with clean discharge.  Recently, SCWO 
has been proven as a powerful technology for destruction organic compounds from a wide variety of wastes [1-11].   
 
PGMEA with chemical formula CH3COOCH(CH3)CH2OCH3  is a manufactured chemical and is widely used as solvent 
to clean the organic residuals on electronic wafers.  Extensive scientific testing has shown that PGMEA is not likely to 
cause adverse effects on human or the environment under normal conditions of use.  Despite the generally low toxicity of 
PGMEA, manufacturers recommend compliance with occupational exposure limits and provide further information on 
appropriate precautions in their MSDS.   Breathing moderate to high levels of PGMEA for a short period of time can 
cause eye, nose, throat, and lung irritation.  PGMEA miscible with water is considered readily biodegradable based on 
U.S. EPA.  Nevertheless, in this work, a preliminary study was done for water contains high concentration of PGMEA.  
The PGMEA was destructed by SCWO in a continuous flow system with a tube reactor.  The effects of temperature and 
pressure on the destruction removing efficiency were investigated.  The experimental results indicated that the obtained 
reaction parameters in supercritical water may provide useful information to scale up design for treating of spent PGMEA 
in water. 
 
250℃ the DRE of PGMEA was generally poor.  A very interesting result was found that below the auto-ignition 
temperature of 345℃ of PGMEA there is no clear trend in enhancing the DRE of PGMEA.  However, as the temperature 
raise above the auto-ignition temperature (AIT), the DRE of PGMEA was greatly enhanced.  This phenomenon is a key 
factor to evaluate the feasibility and the effectiveness for degradation of PGMEA by SCWO.  In our studies, the 
degradation of PGMEA was found greatly enhanced as the reactor’s temperature above the auto-ignition temperature.  
Destruction of PGMEA is often not complete, as it is in sub-critical water oxidation, or below the AIT of PGMEA.  The 
completeness of degradation of PGMEA in water could also be evaluated by the pH alteration of the aqueous solution.  
Higher DRE resulted in decreasing the pH of solution, owing to the organic acid such as acetic acid was produced.  
Nevertheless, the acetic acid is relatively benign or biodegradable.  Figure 4 shows the change pH of aqueous PGMEA 
solution at different temperature.  The measured initial pH of PGMEA aqueous solution is found around 4.5±0.3, after the 
SCWO the pH drops to 2.7±0.3.  
 
Table 1   The initial TOC, COD, and pH of the PGMEA solution with five different levels of concentration 
 
Aqueous 
PGMEA 2.67% 5.33% 8.00% 10.67% 13.33% 
TOC (mg/L) 25,000 50,100 75,200 100,300 125,300 
COD 
(mg/L) 6,400 12,900 21,400 27,300 37,000 
pH 4.92 4.69 4.47 4.36 4.27 
 
 
   
0
20
40
60
80
100
200 250 300 350 400 450
Temperature ( ℃ )
TO
C
 R
em
ov
al
 ( 
%
 )
2.67% PGMEA
5.33% PGMEA
8.00% PGMEA
10.67% PGMEA
13.33% PGMEA
 
 
Figure 2   The TOC removal of PGMEA solution versus reaction temperature. 
 
 
