 
 
2
C = 
d
Αε                                          (1) 
The C is capacitance (F), εis complex permittivity, A is 
the cross section area of the electrode (m2), and d is the 
separation of the two electrodes (m). Fig. 2(b) is half banded 
electrode with interfacial layer. The capacitance value of a 
half banded electrode is half of the value of that of a banded 
electrode, but the resistance value is twice. Fig. 2(c) shows the  
placement of the three electrodes. An equivalent circuit [3], 
based on Ohm’s law, is used to compute the access resistance, 
Ra, the resistance between two electrodes in our cochlea 
model (Fig. 3). In this paper, the monopolar configuration (the 
active electrode is within the cochlea and the return electrode 
is external to the cochlea) is modeled to simulate the change 
of the potential in time when the interface model is added to 
the electrodes. The finite element method is applied to 
simulate the access resistance (Ra) and adopted the 
polarization impedance data from [2]. The electrode interface 
and the cochlea equivalent circuit were modeled with SPICE 
and compared with the condition without the effect of the 
interface in Fig. 4. Fig. 4 shows a significant distortion of the 
electrical potential in time with the interface model. As a 
consequent, it should generate a significant change in the 
neural excitation pattern [5]. 
 
 
                        (a)                                   (b)                                   (c)   
Fig. 2. Three interfacial layers and electrodes configurations: (a) planar 
electrode, (b) half banded electrode, and (c) banded electrode. 
 
 
Fig. 3 The finite element model of a cochlea and electrodes for solving  
Poisson’s equation [4, 5, 7]. The small circle in the outside is the external 
ground electrode. 
 
 
Fig. 4. The input current driving the electrode is ±1.41mA, 
0.2mS/pulse width. 
 
                         (a)                                                                (b)                      
Fig. 5. The input current driving the electrode is ±1.41mA and 0.2mS/pulse 
width. (a) The voltage between the electrodes adding the effect of the interface 
of the electrode. The RC exponential growth and decay are clearly seen due to 
addition of the electrode-interface model. (b) The voltage between the 
electrodes without the effect of the interface of the electrode. 
 
III. RESULT 
Fig. 3 shows a 3D circular cochlea model, which includes 
the Basilar membrane (4 Ω-M), Reissner's membrane (340.13
Ω-M), scala tympani  (0.7 Ω-M), scala vestibuli (0.7 Ω-M), 
scala media (0.6 Ω-M), spiral ganglion (3 Ω-M), bone (6.41 
Ω-M), peripheral axonal process (axial direction = 3 Ω-M; 
transverse direction = 15 Ω -M), and the stria vascularis 
(125.79Ω-M), were studied by incorporating their resistivities 
[6]. Three electrode models were studied: the first electrode 
model does not take into account of any interface effect; the 
second electrode model takes into account of the effect of the 
interface by an equivalent circuits (Fig. 1); the third model 
incorporates a thin layer between the electrode and the scala 
tympani. The layer is 0.5mm thick and a complex permittivity 
is imposed in the layer. The complex permittivity is based on a 
Rp of 5kΩand Cp of 10nF [2] calculated using Ohm’s law and 
simple capacitor equations (Table 1).  The inputs of all three 
cases are a constant current at ±1.41 mA as shown in Fig. 1 
and 4.  An activating function [5] is used to obtain an 
impression of the excitation pattern of the electrical 
stimulation. AF can be computed from the nerve fiber nodes 
given in Fig. 6.  
The results of the first model which does not take into 
account of the interfacial effect are shown in Fig. 7-8.  The 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 10 AF contour of a planar electrode with thin layer interface model. The 
interface is realized through a thin layer with a complex permittivity. 
 
 
Fig. 11 AF contour of a half banded electrode with a thin layer interface 
model. 
 
Fig. 12 AF contour of a banded electrode with thin layer interface model.  
 
Table I Parameters for the finite element model with and without interfacial 
layers, the equivalent circuit model, those published from the literature [2, 3]. 
 
Resistivities = 51.69321113Ω-M, Permittivity = 109243.95, Interfacial layer  
thickness = 0.05mm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 9 Electrode potential comparison for the equivalent circuit approach 
(SPICE) and the proposed complex parameters thin layer approach (Time 
domain finite element method). The potential are almost identical for both 
approaches, which validate the proposed method. 
 
Fig. 13 The activating function of electrodes with or without the 
interfacial layer for the three electrodes from 10Hz to 20kHz. 
 
