英文關鍵詞： animation, mesh deformation, biological 
classification, motion capture 
 
2 
 
example, chimpanzees must use their hands to 
maintain their balance while they are walking. 
As mentioned above, the skeleton of a model is 
an important feature for representing geometry and 
topology. It is an extremely simplified description 
of model appearance and consists of nodes and 
lines. The one-dimensional structure of a skeleton 
has limitations in representing volume and mass 
information. In addition, for vertebrate animal 
models the nodes between the body and limbs are 
not directly connected together. Anatomically, 
however, it is more correct to align the spine 
closer to the posterior of the main body. 
There are many approaches that can be used for 
generating a skeleton model. We have divided 
these approaches into two basic categories; a 
sketch-based approach, and geometry-driven 
approach. The former is very time consuming and 
requires expert knowledge of anatomy and 
zoology, though its results generally coincide with 
realistic animal skeletons. On the other hand, the 
latter aims to extract skeleton information 
systematically. However, most of the skeleton data 
extracted in this way are aligned along the center 
line of the body and limbs. Furthermore, node 
positions do not always conform to the positions 
of the corresponding anatomical skeleton. 
In this paper, we propose a modulized 
animation system for bipeds and quadrupeds using 
semi-automatically created anatomical skeletons. 
In order to provide a general solution to the above-
mentioned problems, we have developed a hybrid 
system which has the advantages of both 
approaches. To begin, we designed a motion-
capture system to analyze video of animal 
movement. The database containing these action 
data is based on biological classification. Inspired 
by the facial animation parameters (FAPs) of 
MPEG4, we designed similar parameterized 
motion patterns such as Walking, Running/Flying 
and Jumping for each group. 
To easily categorize animal models users input 
into our system, they can intuitively choose a 
relative group from our database through a 
hierarchical graphical interface. We used 
hierarchical graphs to represent the relationships 
among motion patterns of biologically classified 
species. For a target 3D model, the possible 
motion pattern candidates are simultaneously 
shown in this tree structure. More specifically, 
based on the disparity (distance) of biological 
ranking within a given target model, motion 
patterns of multiple species are animated and 
visualized at different resolutions. In addition, 
users may not know which motion pattern is 
similar with the selected model. The system will 
provide candidates based on the skeleton 
topologies above the selected model and motion 
patterns. At the same time, an expanded skeleton 
with volume information for the chest and pelvis is 
automatically constructed from the input model. 
Then, a spine consisting of two joints, forelimbs 
and hind legs, are adjusted closer to the posterior 
of the torso. 
Inconsistencies between geometry-driven 
skeleton and anatomy can be greatly reduced 
through database support. Furthermore, pre-
designed motion patterns can be associated with 
different groups to improve animation fidelity in a 
very user-friendly way. 
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. 
In Section 2, related works are introduced. Our 
prototype system structure and results are 
described in Sections 3 and 4. Finally, our 
conclusions are stated in Section 5. 
II. RELATED WORK 
A. Motion Capture 
Motion capture is a well-known approach used 
to record real-world animal actions. Multi-camera 
recordings are a good solution to obtain an 
object’s 3D position. In order to improve the 
recognition rate, the objects being recorded may 
have markers placed on them. However, some 
animal motion cannot be recorded using this 
method. Therefore, robust video-based motion 
capture is still a significant method for analyzing 
these animal actions. 
By analyzing motion details, object contours 
can be extracted from image sequences. Itti et al. 
proposed a saliency map to extract an image ROI 
[12]. This approach is based on the primate visual 
4 
 
 
Figure 1.  System architecture. 
 
Figure 2.  On the upper, the horse contour. Green balls represent 
protrusions. On the bottom, the skeleton embedded onto the image. 
Note that the extremitiesof the limbs match the protrusions. (image 
source: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qC6kj0sqEjs) 
III. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE 
As shown in Fig. 1, our system configuration 
consists of 3 main modules. 
The first module includes video-based motion 
capture and extracts animation data and a skeleton. 
To extract skeleton data, we used the GrabCut to 
segment the object, and embedded the biped or 
quadruped skeleton to the object. 
The second module constructs a standardized 
database of parameterized motion patterns for 
animal groups. This module also includes a GUI 
for users to compare and select an appropriate 
group as the standard. 
The third module is an animation module. It 
applies a parameterized motion pattern to animate 
the 3D model by adopting the LBS method. 
Each of the three modules will be further 
explained in the following sections. 
Before starting to animate an input 3D model, 
users have to select the 3D model’s head. The 
system automatically defines the skeleton with the 
appropriate limb types. In the next stage, users 
interact with a graphical interface to select a 
motion pattern from our database. Finally, the 
selected motion pattern is applied to this model to 
synthesize realistic bipedal or quadrupedal motion. 
A. Video-based motion capture 
This module is used when a 3D model has no 
motion patterns to use. It semi-automatically helps 
the users to record the joints and bones positions. 
After users input an animal motion video, the 
system will analyze the movements. To analyze 
animal motion data, we embed a skeleton into the 
single-camera video. By segmenting the object 
with GrabCut, the system calculates the geodesic 
distance from pixel of contours to any pixel of the 
object. The geodesic distance p is defined as 
follows: 
 ܩܦ(݌௜) = ∑ ݃(݌௜ , ݍ)௤∈ௌ   
where ݃(݌௜ , ݍ) is geodesic distance from ݌௜  to 
ݍ, and ݍ is all pixels on the object area S. This 
signal represents the geometry of the object like a 
star skeleton. By using a low pass filter, the local 
maximums are defined as the protrusions which 
are the extremities of the head or limbs. The 
system roughly projects the extremities of the 
embedded skeleton into these protrusions using 
inverse kinematics. After the joints positions are 
adjusted, the poses are recorded as the part of 
motion pattern. The results are shown in Fig. 2. 
6 
 
motion, it is reasonable to adjust these skeletons to 
conform to the above biological and anatomical 
data. 
For research convenience, we use the Domain 
Connected Graph (DCG) algorithm to construct 
the initial skeleton. Because DCG automatically 
defines limbs and a torso, the head can be 
determined easily. In order to conform to the 
anatomical knowledge, we integrate volumetric 
information for joints, and adjust joint position 
based on protrusion and locale. After selecting the 
head segment, the direction of the hind legs and 
the animal group are determined manually through 
a GUI, and our system automatically constructs an 
anatomical skeleton. 
Inspired by the FAPs of MPEG4, we designed 
3 parameterized motion patterns termed Walking, 
Running/Flying, and Jumping. All these motion 
patterns are cyclic and can be combined to form a 
series of actions. Parameter starting and ending 
phases are used to control the period of cyclic 
motion.  
In the prototype system used for this paper, we 
use DCG to construct an initial skeletal structure. 
The skeleton is then adjusted based on protrusion 
and anatomical information. To better simulate the 
realistic motion of animals, this skeleton is further 
expanded by assigning volumetric information of 
the chest, and pelvis with the related joint nodes. 
For example, with a zebra model and a dog 
model as inputs, we adopt a cycle of walking of an 
ambling horse as the standard motion pattern. The 
taxonomic order of a zebra is PerissodactylaI, 
which is the same as the horse. In contrast, the 
taxonomic order of the dog is Carnivora. 
Although horse and dog are not in the same 
taxonomic order, their topologies are still similar 
(Fig. 4). As shown in Fig. 5 to Fig. 8, these models 
are animated by applying the Walking pattern of a 
horse. The experiment result shows that we have 
provided a good basis for efficiently animating 
arbitrary vertebrate animal models. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
In this paper, we propose an integrated system 
for animating arbitrary 3D models of vertebrate 
animals. By utilizing the motion patterns of a 
standardized model belonging to the same group, 
our system can greatly reduce the efforts of 
animators from repeated editing of similar motion 
sequences. The experiment results also prove that 
our proposal has great potential to animate 
arbitrary 3D models in a very efficient way. 
The idea of parameterized motion patterns 
enables users to control and compose complicated 
animation through a script. Combination of 
multiple motion patterns with noise creates very 
realistic motions. In addition, combining motion 
from different groups is also possible, if the 
skeletons of two groups are similar enough. In the 
prototype system, we only implemented global 
parameters. Introducing local parameters for each 
joint node with the mass data to provide a much 
more subtle, flexible, and thus enjoyable 
animation is one of our future goals. 
We used the DCG method to extract a 3D 
skeleton from a mesh model for research 
convenience. Other approaches, such as the 
harmonic skeleton method, can be adopted to 
further improve the quality of the skeleton and 
decrease system loads for eliminating the gaps 
between anatomical and geometry-driven 
skeletons. 
The LBS method works for deforming the 
mesh models in the prototype system because we 
utilized shape similarity in the same family or 
genus of taxonomy. For more flexible deformation, 
there are many factors, such as inverse kinematics, 
elasticity, gravity, and skeletal properties which 
must be taken into consideration. Although the 
skeletal structure can be automatically extracted, 
the current system still requires user selection of 
the head, limb direction, and the appropriate group. 
Texture information may provide useful 
information for picking the head part. However, 
decision-making for grouping models based on 
skeletal structure still requires more research. In 
addition, briefly categorizing vertebrate animals 
into several groups leaves a large gap to be further 
explored. Therefore, a potential multi-disciplinary 
approach between biologists and engineers can be 
considered for future work.  
A demonstration video is available at 
http://cgda.csie.ncnu.edu.tw/av/AVSAVAM.htm. 
8 
 
 
Figure 5.   Horse animation by applying the walking pattern of a horse. 
               
Figure 6.   Zebra animation by applying the walking pattern of a horse. 
         
Figure 7.   Mutt dog animation by applying the walking pattern of a horse. 
       
Figure 8.   Doberman animation by applying the walking pattern of a horse. 
 
 
 
照片 1. 在日本山口市 JSAI2012 大會會場合影 (由左至右：余歧智博士(日方)、本人、中央大學 張嘉惠教授、成功
大學 高宏宇教授) 
    
    
 
照片 2. 在日本山口市大會懇親晚會會場合影 (由左至右：元智大學 蔡宗翰教授、成功大學 高宏宇教授、日本首都
大學東京 高間康史教授、中央大學 張嘉惠教授、本人) 
 
   
 
照片 3.  JSAI2012 會議中的論文發表 (左方最前排兩位聽眾為泰國 Kasetsart University 的 Soonthornphisaj Nuanwan 教
授與她的博士班學生) 
 
論文摘要 
 
The 26th Annual Conference of the Japanese Society for Artificial Intelligence, 2012 
 
4M1-IOS-3c-5 
 
Simulating Aging and Reverse-Aging Phenomena of Traditional Chinese 
Paintings 
 
Lieu-Hen Chen *1, Meng-Feng Tsai *2, Chien-Hui Hsu *2,  Yu-Sheng Chen *1 
*1 National Chi Nan University             *2 National Central University 
 
    Conventional image processing techniques are often too unsophisticated in their approaches to simulating the effects of 
aging and restoration of paintings. Current processing approaches fail to consider factors such as storage conditions, the 
status of pigments and surface materials, as well as historical trends in color selection and utilization. By neglecting these 
issues, realistic image manipulation of painted art is too often unsuccessful, both in terms of simulating weathering and age 
on contemporary works, and in attempting to restore or remove these same effects from older pieces.  
    This paper proposes a knowledge-based approach to simulate and remove the effects of aging in traditional Chinese 
paintings. A database of information related to degrees of color fade over time is constructed by collecting, categorizing, 
and analyzing the images of paintings from different eras. In addition, relationships among color distribution histograms, 
the different subjects being depicted, the year or dynasty the painting was created, and the properties of different pigments 
are also tracked.  
    A commonly used motif in traditional Chinese paintings is to intentionally leave areas blank. These untouched areas 
provide a useful clue for our prototype system to separate the aging influence of pigment colors from any surface coloration. 
The diffusion of colors across boundaries is also handled by using a vector field. After accounting for the color of blank 
areas and color diffusion, several image processing techniques are applied to further enhance image quality.  
    By using our prototype system, both aging and reverse-aging processes can be simulated. Initial study results show that 
this approach has great potential in simulating aging effects on images of traditional Chinese paintings. 
 
                      
(a) Original painting *                          (b)  Processing with PhotoImpact         (c)  Mapping the image to the early  
(1820 x 1488 pixels)                                                                                         Republic of China era by our method 
* ：”The Antithesis between the Summer Flowers and Grass”,  the Song Dynasty (960-1279 A.D.) 
 
 Keywords: traditional Chinese paintings, web-mining, color analysis, color simulation, color mapping. 
 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳履恆 計畫編號：100-2221-E-260-037- 
計畫名稱：基於生物分類學的解剖學骨架的動畫模組生成 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 2 100% 
New Generation 
Computing 
Journal 
(Springer) 、
JISE 投 稿 準 備
中。 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
JSAI 2012，跟TAAI 
2012。 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
