 I
摘要 
光纖光柵一旦利用紫外線寫製完成後，其波長通道及反射率即固定無法變化，為
增加應用的彈性，可以利用聲波調變的機制，改變波道數及反射率。聲光調變的機制
主要是藉由壓電元件產生聲波導入一先寫製完成的斜角光纖光柵，當調整聲波的波向
量相等於斜角光纖光柵纖殼模與反向纖心模的波向量差時，將使殼模波長位置的殼模
的能量耦合至反向纖心模，即達到相位匹配的條件下，除原布拉格波長外，將可利用
不同強度的聲波誘導增加新的反射波長通道。 
在光纖中的橫向聲波向量，透過傅利葉分析具有基本波及高次諧波。但高次諧波
能量太小，無法產生有效的模態耦合，因此；先前有關橫向聲波在光纖光柵上的研究
及應用，僅為利用單一頻率聲波將一個纖殼模態的光訊號，轉換為纖核模態返回纖核
傳播。本研究計畫利用二個不同頻率的聲波向量產生建設性的干涉，致使增強高次諧
波的振幅。當高次諧波向量符合相位匹配會得到更多誘導的反射波長通道；因此，可
以利用雙聲光調變產生更多的反射波道，增加元件應用彈性，完成一可切換的多波長
通道濾波器，未來希冀可應用於波長分波多工器及多通道光纖雷射中。 
 
關鍵詞：聲光, 斜角光纖光柵 
JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 25, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2007 2751
The Improvement of the Backward Cladding–Core
Coupling in a Tilted Fiber Grating by
Two Acoustic Flexural Waves
Ming-Yue Fu
Abstract—The cladding modes of a tilted fiber grating can be
coupled back to the core modes by acoustooptic interactions.
However, the coupling of high-order diffractions by acoustic–optic
interaction is not apparent, owing to the insufficiency of acoustic
power. In this paper, we will demonstrate that as two acoustic
flexural waves with appropriate frequency are launched to a tilted
fiber Bragg grating, high-order harmonic acoustic waves can be
superposed to improve the coupling efficiency between the back-
ward cladding modes and core modes. This phenomenon may be
applied to induce several optical channels for multichannel laser
and wavelength-division multiplexing filters.
Index Terms—Acoustic flexural waves, tilted fiber Bragg
grating (FBG).
I. INTRODUCTION
BY THE ACOUSTIC flexural waves launched along anoptical fiber, the coupling between cladding modes and
core modes have been experimentally demonstrated and applied
in designing many practical devices [1]–[6]. This is due to
acoustic flexural waves traveling along the fiber and producing
fiber microbending, and that will serve as a long-period grating
for the coupling between the core modes and cladding modes.
The phase-matching theory can be used in finding the coupling
relationship between the cladding radius and flexural acoustic
wave with the chosen optical wavelength [7], [8].
For a tilted fiber grating, the grating wave vector can cause
coupling between the forward and the backward core mode at
the Bragg wavelength, and the forward core modes and back-
ward cladding modes at the shorter wavelength than the Bragg
wavelength [9]. However, the cladding modes can be coupled
back to the core modes and create induced channels when the
acoustic wave travels along the fiber axis and vibrates the fiber.
With the coupling machine, the reflective wavelength can be
switched between the Bragg wavelength and cladding-mode
coupling wavelength [5]. The basic concept of acoustic–optic
modulations is based on the phase-matching condition for the
wave vector of an acoustic wave, which is equivalent to the
difference between the core-mode and cladding-mode wave
vectors. For the past experimental results [10], the induced
Manuscript received November 3, 2006; revised May 9, 2007. This work
was supported by the National Science Council of the Republic of China,
Taiwan, R.O.C., under Contracts NSC 95-2221-E-013-003 and NSC 96-2221-
E-013-001.
The author is with the Department of Avionics Engineering, Air Force
Academy, Kaohsiung 820, Taiwan, R.O.C. (e-mail: fumy@cc.cafa.edu.tw).
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/JLT.2007.903305
channel was achieved for the coupling between the core modes
and the cladding modes near a fiber Bragg grating (FBG)
by acoustically generating fiber microbending of the fiber;
however, those above the second induced channels are unclear,
owing to the weak coupling efficiency.
In this paper, we use dual complementary acoustic sources
in different frequencies in improving the coupling efficiency
of high-order diffractions of a fiber grating. The superposition
phenomenon of acoustic–optic modulations, which is created
by two different types of acoustic waves in a tilted FBG, is
experimentally shown with higher efficient high-order-mode
coupling.
II. PRINCIPLES
The coupling between the cores and the cladding modes with
a traveling acoustic wave in a tilted FBG can be described
by phase matching, where the acoustic-wave vector equals the
difference between the backward-core mode and the backward-
cladding mode wave vectors. Thus, when the frequency of the
acoustic wave is tuned to satisfy the phase matching between
the two modes, the coupling will occur and the induced channel
will be displayed at the left side of the Bragg wavelength.
Fig. 1 illustrates the schematic diagram of the core–cladding
mode coupling and the wave-vector concept behind the phase-
matching condition for a tilted FBG. In Fig. 1(a), for a tilted
FBG fabricated with the tilted angle θ, the grating wave vector
Kg incident had an angle θ with respect to the fiber axis. The
hatched regions on the axis represent the propagation constant
of the cladding mode. Therefore, the component in the axis
direction Kg cos θ will cause the coupling between the forward
propagation β01(λB) and backward propagation −β01(λB) of
the core mode at the Bragg wavelength λB. It is also described
by the Bragg condition
nco(λB)
2π
λB
−
(
−nco(λB) 2π
λB
)
=
2π
ΛB
cos θ (1)
where β01(λB) = nco(λB)2π/λB and Kg = 2π/ΛB. nco(λB)
denote the effective index of the core mode at the Bragg
wavelength λB, and ΛB represents the grating period. For a
shorter wavelength λac than the Bragg wavelength λB, the
grating wave vector Kg cos θ is not large enough to cause the
coupling between the forward propagation constant β01(λac)
and the backward propagation constant −β01(λac) of the core
mode. It can only cause the coupling from the forward core
0733-8724/$25.00 © 2007 IEEE1
FU: IMPROVEMENT OF THE BACKWARD CLADDING–CORE COUPLING IN A TILTED FIBER GRATING 2753
Fig. 3. Reflection spectrum of a tilted FBG. The tilted FBG intrinsically exists
the coupling between the forward core mode and the backward core mode at a
Bragg wavelength of 1552.84 nm, as well as the coupling from the forward-
core to the backward-cladding mode at the shorter wavelength compared with
the Bragg wavelength.
double-cladding fiber with the characteristics of depressing the
cladding modes. Comparing this type of fiber with the standard
photosensitive single-mode fiber for fabricating a slanted fiber
grating, the number of cladding modes is reduced, and the sep-
aration between two neighboring cladding modes is obviously
increased, as shown in the transmission spectrum of Fig. 3 [12].
The tilted FBG is spliced to the one end of the coupler, and
an optical spectrum analyzer (OSA) is used for monitoring
the reflection spectrum of acoustic–optic modulations. The
amplified spontaneous emission (ASE) acts as a broadband
light source and is launched into the fiber through the other end
of a 3-dB fiber coupler. The tilted FBG intrinsically exists the
coupling between the forward core modes and the backward
core modes at the Bragg wavelength, as well as the coupling
between the forward core modes and the backward-cladding
modes at the shorter wavelength as compared with the Bragg
wavelength. Thus, the reflection wavelength of the FBG is
observed at 1552.84 nm from OSA, as shown in Fig. 3. In
order to concentrate the acoustic power into the fiber grating
for enhancing the efficiency of acoustic–optic modulations, the
fiber grating section is etched using a 15% HF solution to
reduce the cladding diameter from 125 to about 30 µm. A PZT
can be used as the acoustic source to produce acoustooptic
modulations in a fiber. The PZT bonded with an aluminum
horn is then connected to a PZT voltage-driving source. The
electromechanical actions of the PZT can obtain effective
electromechanical coupling for certain operation frequencies
based on the resonance circuits. The power of the acoustic
wave generated by a PZT driver source is sufficient in creating
acoustooptic modulations. Moreover, the coupling efficiency
of acoustooptic modulations is proportional to the transversely
acoustic power levels, which can be raised by increasing the
electrical driving voltage of the PZT. The energy conversion
from the electrical driving power into the acoustic power in a
PZT is a linear relationship in the appropriate electrical power
range, but it will reach saturation at higher driving voltage. The
operating frequencies of effective electromechanical coupling
have a slight difference owing to the different bound condition
for the PZT. One end of the tip of the transverse aluminum
horn bonded with PZT1 is glued to the fiber-tapered section
to generate flexural acoustic waves. Meanwhile, the other end
of the etched grating was glued to the tip of the longitudinal
aluminum horn bonded with PZT2, which is driven by another
signal generator, to increase the tuning operation frequency
range. Due to the absence of tension in the grating, the wave
shape from PZT2 should be similar to the fluctuant wave as
wave sharp from PZT1.
To begin with that, the first experimental results demon-
strate that the filtering channels of a tilted FBG can be in-
duced when the acoustic waves are launched into the fiber
in the case of the phase-match condition. The induced wave-
length may be tuned by different acoustic frequencies. To
clarify the effect of acoustic waves with different frequencies
on the induced channels, the driving power of the PZT is
controlled to create just one-order diffraction, as shown in
Fig. 4. The electromechanical transformation and the operating
frequency of a PZT are based on its equivalent resonance
circuit, which is determined by its material composition and
size [11]. Hence, this experimental configuration shows that
the operating-frequency range can be increased by using both
different PZT1 and PZT2 as acoustic-wave sources. To generate
the first transverse acoustic-wave source, PZT1 is alone driven
by a sinusoidal voltage signal of 348 kHz, and the reflection
spectrum of acoustic–optic interaction in the FBG is created
at 1551.69 nm, as shown in Fig. 4(b). Comparing Fig. 4(a)
and (b), acoustooptic-induced reflection is clearly created at
the left side with respect to the original Bragg wavelength.
However, when PZT2 is alone driven by another sinusoidal
voltage signal of 841 kHz, as shown in Fig. 4(c), the in-
duced channel at 1551.03 nm displays a slight shift toward the
shorter wavelength as compared the result shown in Fig. 4(b).
Furthermore, when the frequency of the PZT2 driver source
is increased to 1739 kHz, the acoustooptic-induced reflection
at 1550.19 nm, which is shown in Fig. 4(d), shifts toward
the shorter wavelength than the result shown in Fig. 4(c).
From the induced wavelength in Fig. 4(b)–(d), the experiment
results demonstrate that the induced wavelength is tunable
using different acoustic frequencies. The circle symbols in
Fig. 5 show the induced reflective wavelength of the tilted FBG
at various acoustic-wave frequencies from 350 to 2200 kHz.3
FU: IMPROVEMENT OF THE BACKWARD CLADDING–CORE COUPLING IN A TILTED FIBER GRATING 2755
Fig. 6. Reflection spectra of a tilted FBG in four different conditions. (a) Without acoustic wave, (b) with only a transverse acoustic wave with a frequency of
1089 kHz and a driving voltage of 4.82 Vp-p, (c) with only a longitudinal acoustic wave with a frequency of 348 kHz and a driving voltage of 22.3 Vp-p, and
(d) with both transverse and longitudinal acoustic waves.
TABLE I
REQUIRED ACOUSTIC-WAVE FREQUENCY OF THE COUPLING BETWEEN THE EFFECTIVE REFRACTIVE INDEXES OF CORE MODES AND THE VARIOUS
CLADDING MODES AT THE EXPERIMENTAL COUPLING WAVELENGTH FOR SATISFYING THE PHASE-MATCHING CONDITION
measuring the acoustic–optic modulations. Fig. 6(c) shows the
experimental results where one induced-channel wavelength is
at 1551.69 nm. When the acoustic waves both from PZT1 and
PZT2 are simultaneously applied into the grating, the induced
refection spectrum by the combined acoustic waves is clearly
superposed by that of each acoustic wave, as shown in Fig. 6(d).
Comparing the result in Fig. 6(d) with those in Fig. 6(b) and (c),
we can clearly observe that the coupling of high-order modes
is obviously improved at the lower wavelength side of the
wavelength (1550.67 and 1548.51 nm); thus, the new induced
channels are created at 1549.52 and 1547.35 nm.
The calculation results for the effective refractive indexes of
various modes coupling is listed in Table I. The second and
third column of Table I show the calculated effective refractive
indexes of the core modes and the various cladding modes at
the experimental coupling wavelength as labeled in the first
column. A required acoustic frequency, which is shown in
the forth column of Table I, is calculated for satisfying the
phase-matching condition by (3), which is shown as the square
symbols in Fig. 5.
Referring to Table I, for the induced-channel wavelengths
at 1550.67 and 1548.51 nm, the codirectional couplings will
be the channels for the backward cladding modes LP21 and
LP41 coupled into the backward core mode LP01, and the
reflective power is observed in Fig. 6(b). This is due to the fact
that the acoustic-wave frequency f2 and f4(= 4f2) can satisfy
the phase-matching condition between the first-order and the
fourth-order diffraction. In addition, for the induced-channel
wavelength at 1551.69 nm, which is shown in Fig. 6(c), the
acoustic-wave vector at frequency f1 can match the difference
5
計畫成果自評 
本研究工作大致均按計畫進行，並已取得預定成果。本計畫之研究成果已發表於
IEEE IEEE Journal of  Lightwave Technology (Ming-Yue Fu,“ The Improvement of 
the Backward Cladding-Core Coupling in a Tilted Fiber Grating by Two Acoustic 
Flexural Waves,” IEEE Journal of  Lightwave Technology, Vol. 25, No. 9, 
pp.2751-2756, 2007. (SCI (Impact Factor: 2.824), EI)。雙聲波應用於斜角光纖光
柵，利用不同頻率的聲波向量，產生建設性的干涉高次諧波，當高次諧波向量符
合相位匹配會使斜角光纖光柵更多的纖殼模態的光訊號返回纖核；因此，原為單
一通道的反射型光纖光柵濾波器，可以利用不同頻率的雙聲光調變產生更多的反
射波道，增加元件應用彈性，完成另一新機制的多波長通道的光訊號切換器，未
來可應用於 WDM 及多通道光纖雷射及光纖感測器中。 
7
的研究精要與成果，卻激發靈感，將他人的感測技術，結合光纖的優點，作為他日研究的
新方法。 
3. 個人覺的此次會議大家討論的非常擁躍。此次雖然會議在日本舉行，但主要語文還是為英
語，對我們是練習英文最佳機會，會場場地指標的標示太小並不明顯。舉辦大型國際會議，
除論文會議部份品質很重要外，行政支援作業(食宿、開幕及晚會表演節目的安排)也是非
長重要的一環。如此，才能讓全球各地前來的與會者有賓至如歸的感覺。不僅可以在會議
中得到豐碩的新點子及知識，也可對舉辦國有美好的印象與回憶。 
三、 建    議 
計畫中編列參加國際會議的預算不應刪減，參與國際會議有很多的是值的去聽取學習，從研
究視野及國家學術地位的推展，對研究人員絕對有很大的助益，因此經費的補助為實際鼓勵
參加。 
四、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
本次會議議程及論文摘要。 
 
發表的論文:  
1. Paper 73 –Program No.: 13P-22  
Optic Fiber Sensor Based on Etching Long Period Gratings of Photonic Crystal Fibers 
此論文全文如下:  
 
