中   華   民   國   97  年  08 月   01 日 
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期：97年08月01日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：利用I-V-T 和X光繞射技術用在堆積層 Ni-FUSI/HfO2 
與 Ni-FUSI/SiO2 中針對介面特性之研究 
計畫主持人：譚湘瑜         
計畫編號：NSC96－2221－E－034－007 學門領域：功能陶瓷 
技術/創作名稱 利用I-V-T 和X光繞射技術用在堆積層 Ni-FUSI/HfO2 與 Ni-FUSI/SiO2 中針對介面特性之研究 
發明人/創作人 譚湘瑜 
附件二 
  Page 2 
  Page 4 
英文： 
Metal gate are expected to replace partially silicided 
poly-Si gates in future complementary 
metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) technology nodes, in order 
to eliminate poly-Si depletion issues.  Metal gate and 
high-k gate dielectric are widely believed to be necessary 
for 45 nm CMOS node.  Materials with a dielectric constant 
higher than that of SiO2 are being subject of intensive 
research, since they can lead to lower leakage current while 
maintaining similar capacitance as compared to silicon 
oxide.  Among them, the thermal stability of any potential 
candidate high-k material deserves investigation.  HfO2 film 
is a promising candidate to replace SiO2 as gate dielectric, 
due to its much higher dielectric constant and stability. 
The combination of full Ni silicidation (Ni-FUSI) gate 
electrodes and high-k gate dielectrics is one of the most 
promising gate stacking structures because of its high EOT 
scaling, in addition with its highly compatiable process with 
conventional CMOS process flow.   
In our previous works, we found that the key factors which
affect the NiSi formation during the manufacture processing 
are: Dopant Effect; Anneal Temperature; Thickness ratio 
between Ni to Si; Silicide Process.  In additional, we 
established an effective way to identify the phase 
transformations by some nondestructive techniques such as 
X-ray diffraction, sheet resistance measurement and AFM 
analysis.  Now, the aim of this work is to carry-out a 
comparative electrical and physical characterization of 
Ni-FUSI/HfO2 and Ni-FUSI/SiO2 stacks. The thermal stability, 
phase and interface uniformity of Ni-silicide are some key 
issues for Ni-FUSI technology.  A lot of efforts have been 
investigated to improve the thermal stability of NiSi: adding 
alloying element.  Also there are a lot of concerns on phase 
and interface uniformity of nickel silicide and electrical
active defects caused by rapid Ni diffusion . In this proposed 
research work, for the first time, we intend to investigate 
the phase and interface properties of Ni-silicides formed by 
Ni–Si solid-state reaction and will be characterized by 
X-ray diffraction (XRD), X-ray photoemission spectroscopy 
(XPS) and temperature-dependent current–voltage (I–V–T) 
techniques. 
 
Investigations of the interfacial properties in Ni-FUSI/HfO2 
and Ni-FUSI/SiO2 Stacks by I-V-T and XRD Techniques 
  
*譚湘瑜1   
1中國文化大學電機工程系 (NSC96-2221-E034-007) 
 
 
The thermal stability and phase characteristics involved in processing nickel silicided films formed on 
three different gate dielectric layers (SiO2, HfSiO, and HfO2) were investigated. The electrical 
properties and surface  morphology of Ni-Silicides formed by Ni–Si solid-state reaction were 
examined by X-ray diffraction (XRD), sheet resistance, atomic force microscopy (AFM), X-ray 
photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), and capacitance–voltage (C–V) curves. Results show that the 
Ni-Silicide formations undergo a phase transformation from a low resistivity-NiSi to a high 
resistivity-NiSi2 phase, which has a strong dependence on annealing temperature despite underlying 
gate dielectric materials. It has been found that a mixed-phase of Ni2Si, NiSi and NiSi2 was commonly 
observed during phase transformation. A unique integration process was developed to obtain a 
thermally stable NiSi phase at high temperatures, which proved to delay the conversion of intermediate 
silicide phases to its terminal phase (NiSi2) effectively. The focus of the present work is to facilitate the 
correlations of Ni–Si phase transformation with its electrical and morphological properties. 
關鍵字：Phase transformation; Electrical property; Silicidation; Nickel silicide 
 
 
1. Introduction 
The Ni/Si solid-state reaction has been studied widely in 
recent years [1–4]. The increasing use of nickel silicide as the 
contact material for leading-edge CMOS devices is evident 
upon comparing some of the key properties of NiSi with CoSi2 
and TiSi2. Scaling down CMOS devices requires eliminating 
gate depletion. A fully silicided (FUSI) metal gate can 
eliminate gate depletion by an equivalent oxide thickness (EOT) 
of 0.2 to 0.3 nm for sub-45 nm node and beyond [5–7].  NiSi 
is potentially an attractive material due to its low resistivity, 
less consumption of Si, and its capability to maintain low 
resistivity even for channel lengths down to 0.1 μm [5,8,9]. 
However, NiSi is not a thermodynamically stable phase, as it 
converts to the higher resistivity phase of NiSi2. More seriously, 
in the thickness range of interest to silicide applications, NiSi 
agglomeration takes place at even lower temperatures than 
normally expected from a phase transition [3,4]. Therefore, the 
thermal stability of NiSi thin film and the phase transformation 
from NiSi to NiSi2 are important for understanding the 
properties of Ni-FUSI and improving the device fabrication 
processes.  In this paper we demonstrated a unique silicide 
formation process to maintain a thermal stable of NiSi phase at 
high processing temperatures regardless underlying gate 
dielectric materials. The key element to achieve this challenge 
is to introduce a fine tuned two-step annealing process. Several 
measurement techniques such as XRD, Resistivity, AFM, CV 
and XPS were carried out to understand its physical and 
electrical properties. The correlations between its electrical and 
morphological changes during Ni–Si phase transformation 
were established. 
 
2. Experiments 
P type (100) oriented silicon substrates were used to 
obtain three different gate structures, Ni-FUSI/poly-Si/SiO2, 
Ni-FUSI/poly-Si/HfO2 and Ni-FUSI/poly-Si/HfSiO stacks. The 
Ni-FUSI gate stacks were fabricated using a modified 
conventional CMOS flows. For gate dielectric fabrications, 
SiO2 layers were thermally grown by dry oxidation (SiO2) of 2 
nm using a Vertical Furnace system at temperature around 800 
°C. HfO2 and HfSiO with thickness of 8 nm were deposited by 
metal organic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) at 
temperature of 500 °C with O2 gas and deposited rate at 0.6 
nm/min. The undoped Poly-Si layers of about 100 nm were 
deposited using a low-pressure chemical vapor deposition 
(LPCVD) with temperature at around 620 °C. Samples were 
then implanted with As having dosage of 8×1015 cm−2 and 
implant energy of 20 keV, followed by a soak annealing at 
1100 °C in N2 ambient for 5 s.  On the other hand, some 
samples were left without implantation as references. The 
implant equipment was Varian Ion Implant 
Systems-E220HP/E500HP Implanter. After Poly-Si deposition, 
the Ni film was deposited by using a metal-physics vapor 
deposition (PVD) technique with deposition rate at 1 nm/s.  
The film thickness of Ni was 65 nm to ensure the tNi/tSi 
thickness ratio at ~0.65 (65 nm/100 nm). The fully silicidation 
(FUSI) was carried out by using a two-step annealing process. 
The first anneal step was done at a low temperature of 400 °C 
  Page 6 
strong peaks in the 2θ at 45.331 and 47.331 after the second 
annealing temperature at 550 ℃.  Those peaks represent the 
existence of NiSi phase [12].  Once the thermal annealing 
temperature at 700 ℃, the NiSi phase remained thermally 
stable and as a dominated phase regardless underlying gate 
dielectric materials.  Furthermore, if a high thermal annealing 
temperature at 850 ℃, the XRD patterns show that NiSi2 (2θ= 
28.58 and 47.41) was formed on both HfO2 and SiO2 dielectric 
layer in a Ni-Si matrix, which co-exist with NiSi phase.  
Nevertheless, the XRD data show that the NiSi phase can stay 
thermally stable.  For NiSi formed on HfSiO dielectric layer 
with a thickness ratio (tNi/tS) at 0.65, NiSi remained as a 
primary phase in Ni-Si matrix even at temperature reaching 850 
℃ (Fig. 2c).  HfSiO has shown more stable amount than 
others. Therefore, the key in leading a thermally robust NiSi is 
to implement a two-step thermal anneal process incorporating 
with high tNi/tSi ratio at 0.65.  
 
3.2. Electrical characteristic – sheet resistance 
and C–V analysis 
 
To understand the stages of the Ni-Si reaction, a series of 
second annealing temperatures (550 ℃~850 ℃) was 
considered in the experiments.  The sheet resistance 
measurements were conducted on each wafer at different 
experimental conditions.  The average sheet resistance data 
was based on the origin of 49 measurement sites on each wafer.  
The average sheet resistance data after different thermal 
treatment temperatures is plotted in Fig. 3.  After the first 
annealing step (400℃), the average sheet resistance of all 
samples was maintained below 10 ohms/sq.  When the second 
annealing temperatures around at 550 ℃, the average sheet 
resistances shift down to less than 3 ohms/sq regardless 
underlying gate dielectric materials (SiO2, HfO2, or HfSiO).  
For Ni-Si system, it is known that the formation of Ni2Si occurs 
at around 250 ℃, and NiSi starts the agglomeration process at 
600 ℃ [11].  The formation of NiSi2, on the other hand, is a 
nucleation-controlled process, which takes place at 
temperatures around 700~750 ℃ for thin NiSi films in contact 
with Si.  In Fig. 3, sheet resistance measurement shows that 
when annealing the films from 700 to 850 ℃, the resistance for 
the film continues to increase.  However, although the 
resistance has increased to a very high value at temperatures of 
850 ℃, the XRD patterns show that there still exist 
multi-phases of Ni-Si (NiSi and NiSi2).  At a high temperature 
around 850 ℃, the HfSiO samples show relatively a lower 
sheet resistance value amount of other gate dielectric materials 
at high temperatures.  It implies that HfSiO is more stable at 
high temperatures since relatively less NiSi2 phase formed.  
The increase of sheet resistance is due to a higher fraction of 
NiSi2 phase contenting with Ni-Si matrix.  A mixed-phase of 
NiSi and NiSi2 was commonly observed.  Furthermore, Fig. 4 
and Fig. 5 show that the C-V characteristics apparently be 
affected by the annealing temperature.  Largely increase in 
equivalent oxide thickness (EOT) was observed for higher 
annealing temperature.  HfO2 has more interface trapping 
density than HfSiO, indicating that HfSiO is a thermally stable 
gate dielectric material at high temperatures.  
It shows our two-step annealing process with a tNi/tSi 
thickness ratio at 0.65 can push the NiSi2 phase occurred at 
temperatures above 850 ℃ successfully.  In additional, a 
mixed-phase of nickel silicide (NiSi and NiSi2) can easily be 
identified by the value of sheet resistance after a thermal 
processing.  The XRD patterns and sheet resistance value 
showed a very good correlation on identifying the phases of 
nickel silicide during the transformation.  
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.3. Sheet Resistance (Rs) vs temperature of 2nd anneal 
process in a two-step thermal annealing Ni-FUSI process for 
tNi/tSi=0.65 with either un_doped poly-Si or As doped poly-Si 
(8x1015cm-2).  The increase of Rs with increasing of 
temperature. 
 
 
 
Fig.4. C-V characteristics dependence of annealing condition for 
HfO2 MIS capacitors. (annealing at 450°C , 550°C and 650°C) 
 
 
 
Fig.5. C-V characteristics dependence of annealing condition for 
HfSiO MIS capacitors. (annealing at 550°C , 700°C and 850°C) 
  Page 8 
