行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫進度報告 
各種鑽頭在刀具研磨機的修磨 
 
The regrinding of drills in tool-grinding-machines  
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-006 -038 
執行期限： 98 年 08 月 01 日至 99 年 07 月 31 日 
主持人：林昌進教授     國立成功大學機械工程學系 
 
一、中文摘要  
鑽削在金屬加工中非常地普遍，根據統計，全球每年消耗在鑽頭刀具的成本可達數百億美
元，而長時間加工後，產生磨損的鑽頭若能重新研磨，可節省一根要價數千元台幣的鑽頭成
本。過去，對於破損的鑽頭大多以人工的方式重新修磨，現存的文獻中也鮮少提到如何將鑽
頭重新修磨。利用 CNC 工具研磨機重新研磨鑽頭是一個相當重要的突破，CNC 工具機能讓鑽
頭重複研磨且使鑽頭重新研磨後的尺寸更為一致。修磨鑽頭的首要工作為找出鑽腹與鑽槽的
數學模型，接著對工具機建模，以利 NC 程式的撰寫，最後找到鑽頭在 CNC 工具機上的加工原
點，方能精確對鑽頭重新修磨。本研究是以齊次座標轉換法，並依據國際標準 ISO 規範建議，
求得鑽頭各角度與鑽腹的數學模型，再利用齊次座標轉換及 D-H 矩陣法則對 CNC 六軸工具研
磨機建模，推導其功能函數矩陣，並推導鑽腹的研磨輪方位矩陣，由研磨輪方位矩陣和工具
機功能矩陣的相等可獲得 NC 程式，求得的 NC 程式，可使 CNC 六軸工具研磨機對鑽頭重新修
磨，以達到本研究的目。 
 
關鍵詞：鑽頭，刀具研磨機，重新研磨 
   
Abstract 
    This project investigates the drill regrinding processes on a CNC tool-grinder to regrind a 
used drill to have a new point. The first necessary step is the re-determination of the drill coordinate 
frame w(xyz)  on the employed CNC tool-grinder. However, it is difficult, even impossible, to 
re-determine w(xyz) . One compromised method, which yields the decreasing of drill length and 
difficulties have to be overcome: (1) how to re-determine the drill coordinate frame by which the 
surfaces referred to; (2) how to grind a drill to have the pre-specified rake and clearance angle 
distribution; (3) how to obtain the NC data equations to regrind the drill. 
The main geometrical surfaces of a conventional drill include flanks and flutes. Usually 
additional surfaces by notching or web thinning processes are required to alleviate the problems of a 
conventional drill. Therefore, a coordinate frame ( )wxyz , which is embedded in the drill and will be 
referred as drill frame, is needed to describe these surfaces. However, the frame ( )wxyz  is 
disappeared after the drill was moved off from the tool-grinder. To overcome the first difficulty, how 
to re-determine ( )wxyz  on a CNC tool-grinder for drill regrinding will be addressed. 
Note that each drill type is reground in a different way; each requires a specific NC codes to 
assure it will be ground correctly. In order to resolve the second difficulty, the tool-in-use system of 
characteristic angles based on the International Standard Organization (ISO) (p.174 of [1]) will be 
addressed to determine the required flank and face surfaces. Then the required pose of the grinding 
wheel will be determined to overcome the second difficulty. The Denavit-Hartenberg notation [2] or 
its modified version [3] can establish the kinematic model of a tool-grinder to determine the 
required NC data equations to solve for the third difficulty. To validate the proposed methodology, 
two off-the-shelf drills of tungsten carbide material are reground into drills with different 
geometries. 
A position vector i j kx y za a a+ +  is written as a column matrix a 1 Tj x y za a a⎡ ⎤= ⎣ ⎦ . The 
pre-superscript "j" of the leading symbol ja  means this vector is with respect to coordinate frame 
( ) jxyz . Given a point 
ja , its transformation k a  is represented by the matrix product 
A  k k jja a= , where Ak j  is a 4x4 matrix defining the pose of a frame ( ) jxyz  with respect to 
another frame ( )kxyz . These notation rules are also applicable to an unit directional vector 
0
Tj
x y zn n n n⎡ ⎤= ⎣ ⎦ .  
 
三、研究目的  
    This project addresses the drill regrinding processes on a CNC tool-grinder to regrind a 
used drill to have a new point. The first necessary step is the re-determination of the drill coordinate 
[9] P. D. Lin, J. F. Hsieh, Mathematical model of multiflute drill point, International Journal 
Machine Tools and Manufacture 42 (2002) 1181-1193. 
[10] J. F. Hsieh, Mathematical model for helical drill point, International Journal Machine Tools and 
Manufacture 45 (2005) 967-977 
[11] W. Zhang, F. He, D. Xiong, Parameterized Geometric Design for Complex Helical Drill Point, 
ASME Journal of Engineering for Industry, Vol.127, (2005)319-327. 
 
五、研究方法  
    To regrind a drill, the mathematical model of the employed tool-grinder and 
grinding-wheel should be given since it depends strongly on the type of tool-grinder and 
grinding-wheel. The working surface of a grinding-wheel can be defined by using its generating 
curve t q , given as (Eq. A1 of [4]): 
[ ] [ ]t= ( , ) q= ( , ) ( ) 0 ( ) 1 ( ) ( ) ( ) 1t T Tr Rot z v Rot z v x h z h x h Cv x h Sv z h=   (1) 
Rot  is the rotation matrix. C and S denote cosine and sine, respectively. h  and v  are length and 
angle parameters to define the shape of the grinding-wheel having ( )txyz  (referred as 
grinding-wheel frame) as its coordinate frame. The tool-grinder used is the Ewag CNC six-axis 
tool-grinder (see Fig. 2) with 1θ , 2θ , 3b , 4b , 5b , and 6θ  as its link variables. It consists of three 
linear motions and three angular motions in three mutually perpendicular directions along the 
machine coordinate frame (XYZ). These motions (referred to as absolute machine coordinates mX , 
mY , mZ , mA , mB , mC  according to ISO standards, p.4 of [1]) are measured by optical linear or 
angular encodes embedded in machine axes, and can be read out from its control panel. Also note 
that the tool-grinder possessing three translational and two rotational axes (their link variables are 
1θ , 2θ , 3b , 4b , and 5b ) is flexible enough to move the grinding-wheel to the desired position and 
orientation. Therefore, to simplify the machining setting, in this report the sixth axis of the 
tool-grinder will be locked at 6 90θ = D ( 0mA = D ). 
w
t
1 0 0 0
0 1 0 0
A '
0 0 1 0
0 0 0 1
−⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥= ⎢ ⎥−⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
   (4)  
Note that the frames ( )wxyz ′  and ( )txyz  of Fig. 4 are separated for reasons of clearness. At this 
pose the absolute machine coordinates (denoted as 0A , 0B , 0C , 0X , 0Y , and 0Z ) read from the 
control panel screen are referred as the drill home position. They must be stored by G54 to G59 
prior to running a program that uses them. In Section 4 of [2] we already addressed how to measure 
the active parameters (i.e., 1a and 1 0b b−  of Eqs. (3-1) to (3-6)) and NC values 0X , 0Y , 0Z  
simultaneously by using a grinding-wheel as the measuring probe. As stated above that the 
employed tool-grinder will be locked at 6 90θ = D , yielding 0 0A = D . Further, it is always possible to 
have 0 0B = D  since the clamed drill doesn’t interfere the rotation of 2θ . The remaining problem is 
how to clamp a drill to have 0 0C = D . 
The necessary and sufficient condition to have 0 0C = D  is that when the claming link being at 
its datum position (i.e., 0mC = D ), the wx axis of ( )wxyz  have to point upwardly after a drill is 
camped. A cylinder blank can arbitrarily be clamped to have 0 0C = D  when 0mC = D , since one can 
define the vector originating wo  and pointing upwardly to be the wx axis of ( )wxyz . Contrastingly, 
when a drill is clamped when 0mC = D  for regrinding, the w wx z  plane (see Fig. 4) should be 
positioned exactly vertically in order to have 0 0C = D . It is difficult, even impossible, to achieve 
this task since the frame ( )wxyz  defined on drill has disappeared, and exactly position a drill at the 
above required pose is almost impossible. One compromised method is shown in Fig. 5. This figure 
shows the point “Q ” of the drill can be positioned in the first quadrant of ( )wxyz ′  and very close to 
the axis wx′ . This will result that the vector originating from wo′  (which is a very close neighboring 
point of wo ) and pointing upwardly is the wx axis of ( )wxyz  in regrinding processes. Further, the 
outer most point of the re-ground cutting edge is at point “Q′ ”, not point “Q ”. Mathematically, the 
relative pose matrix of the actual ( )wxyz  with respect to its ideal frame can be expressed by  
w
w
'A ( , ) (0,0, )z zRot z Transη= −Δ  (Fig. 4), where 0  C Sz z z drill drill drillRη ω ωΔ = Δ + . drillω  and 
drillR  are respectively the helix angle and radius of a twist drill. 0zΔ  , which depends on the point 
angle, is a constant value for a drill. The length and flank width of the reground drill will be 
decreased respectively by zΔ  and z drill z drillRη ω−Δ  for a twist drill. Consequently, two penalties 
planar flanks are commonly produced. ( , )Rot z v of Eq. (6) indicates that the flank of a conventional 
drill is ground by moving the drill with rotation around its geometric axis. 
(2) Helical drills: A helical drill is ground by adding an additional translation motion in 
grinding the ith flank w t, tA  r
w
flank ir =  to increase its clearance and heel angles [10], where w tA  
and surface t r  are respectively given by Eq. (5) and 
[ ]t t0 0r= ( , ) (0,0, ( ) (2 )) q= ( , ) (0,0, ( ) (2 )) 0 ( ) 1 TRot z v Trans H v v Rot z v Trans H v v h f hπ π− − (7) 
H  and 0v  are respectively the pitch and offset polar angle of the helix. To date, a new type, called 
as complex helical drills, is also reported [11] by including extra displacement in grinding the flanks 
of helical drills. 
(3) Multi-facet drills: Compared with two-facet drills, the reports of multi-facet drills are rather 
meager. These drills can be further divided into three types: circumferential multi-facet (Fig. 5a), 
radial multi-facet (Fig. 5b), and hybrid multi-facet (Fig. 5c) drills. The first type drills are obtained 
by grinding several chip-dividing grooves along circumferential direction of flanks on conventional 
or helical drills. The methodology presented in Section 3 of this report can analyze and grind these 
chip-dividing grooves. The flanks of hybrid multi-facet drills consist of both circumferential and 
radial facets. Therefore in the following of this section we will focus on the radial multi-facet drills.  
Radial multi-facet drills consist of flanks having primary and secondary facets ground along 
radial direction. These facets usually, but not necessarily, are flat. The secondary facet is extended 
to the midway of the chisel edge to produce the apex at the center of a drill. As shown by Fig. 6, a 
flank with flat facets can be modeled simply by the following equation 
( )w w w w w, top top bottom top bottomρ  ρ ρ ρ ρw flank ir u= + − −  (8) 
w
top top x top y top zρ ρ ρ ρ 1
T⎡ ⎤= ⎣ ⎦ and w bottom bottom x bottom y bottom zρ ρ ρ ρ 1
T⎡ ⎤= ⎣ ⎦  are the upper and 
lower boundary curves of a flank. They will affect the clearance angle distribution along cutting 
edges and the strength of the flanks. Note that w topρ  is usually defined on w wx y  plane, yielding a 
thick-web drill. Then a notch is formed on either side of the web for improving drill performance. A 
convention or helical drill with conical or planar flanks can also be modeled by Eq. (8), provided 
step to modify a flank to have the pre-specified clearance angle clearanceα  is the determination of the 
unit outward normal vector w flankn  of that flank along cutting edge 
w
edger . To achieve this, the 
tool-in-use system of International Standard Organization (ISO) (p.108 of [1], [4]) requires the 
following three planes to determine the clearanceα  (Fig. 7): 1) the flank flankwP  with unit normal 
vector w flankn ; 2) the cutting edge plane 
w
sP  (The plane tangential to the cutting edge 
w
edger  and 
perpendicular to the working reference plane w rP  having unit normal tan tan
w w
resu t resu tv v , where 
tan
w
resu tv  is the resultant cutting velocity of 
w
edger ). The unit normal of 
w
sP  is 
tan tan
w w w w
edge resu t edge resu tt v t v× × , where w edget  is the unit tangential vector along the cutting edge 
w
edger ); and 3) the cutting edge normal plane 
w
nP  (the plane perpendicular to the cutting edge 
w
edger . The unit normal of 
w
nP  is 
w
edget ). Note that the unit outward normal vector 
0
Tw
flank flankx flanky flankzn n n n⎡ ⎤= ⎣ ⎦ of flank surface has to fulfill 
2 2 2 1flankx flanky flankzn n n+ + =  (12) 
Furthermore, w flankn must perpendicular to the unit tangent vector 
w
edget of primary/secondary 
cutting edge, yielding  
0w T wedge flank edgex flankx edgey flanky edgez flankzt n t n t n t n⋅ = + + =  (13) 
According to ISO the clearance angle clearanceα  is the angle between cutting edge plane w sP  and 
flank
wP  measured in cutting edge normal plane w nP . Therefore, clearance angle can be calculated 
from 
( ) ( ) ( )( )w w w w w w w w w wflank n n s flank n n s flank s
clearance w w w w w w w w
flank n n s flank n n s
n n n n n n n n n n
C
n n n n n n n n
α × • × • • − •= =× × × ×  (14) 
Numerical scheme can be used to solve for the unit normal vector w flankn  from Eqs. (12), (13) 
and (14). Eq. (14) is also used to check the clearance angle distribution along the primary/secondary 
cutting edge of various drills in the design stage, if w flankn  is known.  
Having the unit outward normal vector w flankn  and cutting edge edge
wr , one can modify the 
flank to have the required clearance angle by choosing a suitable working point t cr  (Eq. (1)) with 
inward unit normal vector t cn−  on the grinding-wheel surface. Note that, again, over-cutting and 
collision avoidance have to be considered in choosing point t cr . Now by transferring 
tn−  and t r  
report the notched and split-point drills will be included in the thinned drills, since the Eq. (15) is 
also applicable to grind them. To validate the methodology, one worn drill shown in Fig. 8 with 
tungsten carbide material and 30D  helix angle was reground. Fig. 9 shows the top-view of the 
reground drill. 
 
六、結果與討論  
    Drilling is one of the most important machining processes that have been widely applied 
in manufacturing area. According to the statistics, the capital spending of drills is over forty billion 
US dollars per year in the world. The majority of a drill’s life is spent in a reconditioned state. How 
to regrind a drill in a CNC tool-grinder is an important issue, since a CNC tool-grinder offers much 
greater repeatability. Some important conclusions can be drawn from this report: 
(1) The first step to regrind a drill on a CNC tool-grinder after it being clamped is the 
re-determination of the drill frame ( )wxyz . Exactly re-determination of ( )wxyz  is difficulty, even 
impossible.  
(2) One compromised method of re-determination of ( )wxyz  is the methodology addressed in this 
report. The relative pose matrix of the actual ( )wxyz  with respect to its ideal frame can be 
expressed by  w w
'A ( , ) (0,0, )z zRot z Transη= −Δ  (Fig. 4). The length and flank width of the 
reground drill will be decreased respectively by zΔ  and z drill z drillRη ω−Δ  for a twist drill with 
helix angle drillω  and radius drillR . 
(3) The modification, such as thinning, dubbing, and notching processes, on cutting edges is needed 
to sharpen the primary cutting edges. This is because of that, as shown by Fig. 4, the cutting edge 
will be shifted from point “ Q ” to point “ Q′ ” when the drill flank is reground. By such regrinding 
processes one can obtain drills with different geometries by modifying the drill flanks and cutting 
edges. 
 
 
Fig. 3: The drill coordinate frame ( )wxyz  imbedded in a drill.  
 
  
Fig. 4: ( )wxyz ′  is the ideal pose of the drill frame ( )wxyz  
 
 
 
Fig. 5: A compromised method to re-determination of drill coordinate frame 
 
 
Fig. 5(a) circumferential multi-facet drill 
 
 
Fig. 5(b) radial multi-facet drill 
 
 
cutting edge chip-dividing groove
wx′
wo′
Q′
wy′
Q
wx′wxwx
wy
,w wz z′
Q
Q′
wo ′
wo
wo
zη zΔ
drill for regrinding
wx′
tx
tz
ty wz′
wo
Q
0 owc =
clamping link
 
Fig. 9: The top-view of the reground drill 
 
 
 
 
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：林昌進 計畫編號：98-2221-E-006-038- 
計畫名稱：各種鑽頭在刀具研磨機的修磨 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 0 100%  
博士生 2 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
