2ABSTRACT
The present study deals with the elastic deformation of a conjugate element. A method of
pre-deformed curve is used to compensate for the elastic deformation of gate rotor’s tooth. The
pre-deformed curve is decided by the maximum deformation of the original gate rotor’s tooth.
The curve of maximum deformation is described as a deviation function. An adequate deviation
function is selected to pre-deform the original gate rotor’s tooth. Using the deviation function to
reshaped gate rotor’s teeth, a mathematical model of pp-type single screw rotor with
pre-deformed gate rotor’s teeth was determined. Based on the mathematical models of the
pp-type single screw compressor mechanism, the von-Mises stress analysis of the reshaped
meshing pairs was carried out. The results show that it is possible to compensate elastic
deformation and reduce contact stress between elastic conjugate gear pairs.
Keywords: single-screw compressor, envelope theory
1 INTRODUCTION
Pairs of conjugate elements commonly referred to rigid body. However, almost all
engineering materials exhibit some elasticity. If an external load that causes deformation does not
exceed the elastic limit, then when the load is removed, the material will return to its original
shape. In this work, a method of pre-deformed curve was used to develop a theoretical study of
elastic conjugate elements that are required to satisfy requirements of precision in the engineering
industry and to reduce wear and noise. Based on the following assumptions, the pre-deformation
is studied.
(a) The local elastic deformation from the norm normal load is considered.
(b) Thermal deformation is neglected.
(c) The rotational axes are treated as rigidly bodies.
(d) The body under the external load is perfectly elastic: its shape returns completely after the
forces are removed.
Because the meshing force exits between the conjugate pairs of a pp type single screw,
elastic deformation is generated in gate rotors. In this project, conjugate theory with
pre-deformation is used to determine the geometric model of a screw rotor under the teeth of a
gate rotor with pre-deformation. When two elastically deformable conjugate elements are contact
under a given load and pattern of motion, the deformation curves of the objects are defined as the
pre-deformed curves. Then, when the load is removed, the material will return to its original
shape. The shape is defined as the originally generated curve.
In general, an envelope to the family of generating curves is called a generated curve.
Moreover, the generating curve and the generated curve are considered to be rigid bodies. During
the last decades many mathematical models have been developed, based on envelope theory for
rigid bodies. Backhouse and Jones [1, 2] published a series of papers that presented a procedure
for applying envelope theory to spatial cam geometry. Chan and Pisano [3] applied the envelope
technique in an implicit form to plate cams with oscillating followers with irregular surfaces.
Dhande et al. [4] developed a symbolic algorithm to model various shape-forming processes
associated with conventional machining and unconventional machining. This algorithm is based
4cc-type single-screw compressors was published by Zimmern in 1960 [13]. Since then, some U.S.
patents of the cp-type single screw compressor [14, 15, 16, 17] have been registered. Yang [18]
presented the direct envelope concept and the geometric model of a pp-type single screw
compressor with conical gate rotors.
In this work, the concept of pre-deformation is used to the gate rotor’s teeth. This envelope
theory is applied to determine the geometric model of the screw rotor. The gate rotor requires less
material compared to the conical gate rotor in reference [18]. In addition, compared to Ref. [18],
the sealing portion (elastic material) can be more conveniently replaced.
A mathematical model of the pp-type single screw compressor with gate rotor and screw
rotor can be established by applying the theory of [19, 20] and differential geometry. Based on
the gear theory, the mathematical model of the screw rotor is considered to be an envelope to the
family of the gate-rotor surfaces.
Computer software is used to show a complete profile of the pp-type single screw
compression mechanism with pre-deformation and without pre-deformation. One benefit of the
herein method is its capacity to provide a geometric model of a pp-type single screw compression
mechanism with pre-deformation on gate rotor’s teeth. The developed computer program can be
applied to determine the contact stress between gate rotor and screw rotor. Finally, Table 2
presents a numerical example to demonstrate the geometric model of a pp-type single screw
compressor with a compression ratio of 11:6.
2. THE DEVIATION FUNCTION DESIGN
Relationship between a conventional gate rotor’s tooth and a pre-deformed gate rotor’s
tooth is shown in Fig, 2 and Fig. 3, respectively. One assumes that the amount of deviation  is
a function of the design parameter of the conventional gate rotor’s tooth. The function is called
deviation function. An adequate deviation function is used to reshape the conventional gate
rotor’s tooth. Based on the envelope theory and the reshaped gate rotor’s tooth, the envelope to
the family of reshaped gate rotor’s surfaces can be obtained. To use this method, one needs only
to provide a deviation function  in the working range, in which AB and DE represent
the working range of the gate rotor’s tooth design. This deviation function has to be zero at points
A and E, as shown in Fig. 2, ie.,
 =0,  at points A and E . (1)
When the conventional gate rotor’s tooth and the deviation function are determined, the
reshaped rack cutter can be represented as follows:
cR = coR +  1N . (2)
where the vector coR is the representation of conventional gate rotor’s tooth, as shown in
reference [10]. The vector cR represents the reshaped gate rotor’s tooth. The vector 1N is a
unit normal vector of the conventional gate rotor’s tooth.
6and (7), the parameter  must be changed to 2 and 3, respectively. Following equations
(5), (6)-(7) and Table 2, the original gate rotor tooth and its pre-deformed tooth are shown in
Fig. 5.
4. One parameters envelope theory with pre-deformed curve
The general pre-deformation of a body in a three dimensional system is considered. As
shown in Fig. 6, initially the point P at ( 1x , 1y , 1z ) moves a pre-deformation to a new position
)( *** z,y,x , such that
*P )( *** z,y,x , wzzv,yyu,xx 1
*
1
*
1
*  . (8)
The u, v and w are the components of the vector *PP , which express the displacement of
the point P as the result of elastic deformation. This vector will be called the displacement vector
or simply the displacement. The displacement vector is resolved into three components u, v and w,
as shown in Fig. 6. Since different points of a body will be displaced differently, u, v and w will
be functions of the coordinates 1x , 1y and 1z of the original position of the point under
consideration [21]
u = u ( 1x , 1y , 1z ), v = v ( 1x , 1y , 1z ), and w = w ( 1x , 1y , 1z ). (9)
An alternative way of describing curves which treats the coordinates 1x , 1y and 1z is
the parametric form. The coordinates 1x , 1y and 1z are expressed as a function of an auxiliary
parameter , such that 1x = 1x (), 1y = 1y () and 1z = 1z ().
Here, an original generating curve and a pre-deformation curve will be defined. If two
elastic deformation objects contact continuously under a given load and pattern of motion, the
curves of maximum deformation of the objects are defined as the pre-deformation curves. Then
the curve of restitution of deformation is defined as the original generating curves. The
pre-deformation curves can keep conjugating under a certain load. Theses curves always change
in the course of the dynamic contact motion process. Using the normal vector of an original
generating curve and selecting an amount of deviation is to reshape the original generating curve.
The reshaped curve is defined as the pre-deformation curves. Based on one parameters envelope
theory, the mathematical model of a pre-deformation conjugate element is regarded as an
envelope to one-parameter family of the pre-deformation curves.
In order to obtain the mathematical model of the pre-deformation conjugate element, a
coordinate transformation matrix from the cS coordinate system to the 1S coordinate system
can also be used and can be seen in Fig. 7. By applying coordinate transformation matrix c1M ,
the family of the pre-deformation curves can be expressed as
i
c1c
i
1
RMR ),,( 1 . (10)
Here, the pre-deformation curve is represented in cS as
i
cR ()= ],[ wzvyux ccc  , , 
is the designed parameter, Parameter 1 is the parameter of motion. The ),,( 1i1R
85. Stress analysis
In this section, computer-aided stress analysis is utilized to determine the contact stress for
the PP-type single screw with deviation and no deviation on gate rotor. The most powerful
method for determining accurate stress and deflection information is the finite element (FE)
method. This study assumes that there are no assembly errors. The performed stress analysis is
based on a finite method [20] and a general proposed computer program [21]. A PC version of
this program running on Windows XP is used to obtain the numerical solution for contact stress
analysis.
A CAD package SolidWorks 2006 is used to develop the geometric models of the pp-type
single screw compressor. The models have been developed by the CAD computer program and
then transferred to the FE package MSC.visualNastran 4D 2004 for stress analysis. The material
is assumed to be isotropic and homogeneous. The module material is steel with a Young’s
modulus of GpaE 207 and a Poisson ratio of 3.0 . In this analysis, only the single screw
rotor is assumed to have a constant angular velocity 90 deg/s. The single screw rotor can rotate
about its own axis. A torque 10Nm is added to the cylindrical surface of the gate rotor. The single
screw rotor collides with the gate rotor. A counterclockwise angular velocity 90 deg/s applied to
the single screw rotor, causing contact between the helical groove and the gate tooth. The torque
applied to the gate rotor is Nm10 . The stress analysis has been performed for the mechanism of
the single screw compressor mechanism. The contour plot of von-Mises stress of the mechanism
is shown in Fig. 10. The maximum stress of von-Mises in Fig. 10 is 6104.9  2/ mN . Figs. 10 is
the stress distributions of the single screw rotor with no pre-deformation of the gate rotor. The
three-dimensional stress distribution of the single screw rotor with pre-deformation of gate rotor
1mm is shown in Fig. 11. The maximum stress of von-Mises in Fig. 11 is 61009.5  2/ mN .
Comparing Figs. 15 and 16, it founds that the maximum values of contact stress between the
screw rotor and the gate rotor, the values of the gate rotor with pre-deformation is lower than the
gate rotor without pre-deformation.
6 CONCLUSION
This study developed a complete mathematical model of the creation of a pp-type single
screw compressor with a pre-deformation on gate rotor’s tooth. A computer program that was
based on the proposed mathematical model was developed. The developed computer program
yields a geometric model of the screw rotor and the gate rotor via a computer-aided design.
To investigate the contact stress in the pre-deformation of gate rotor’s tooth and the
traditional gate rotor’s tooth, three-dimensional stress analysis has been investigated. Comparing
the pre-deformed tooth and the traditional tooth, the concept of pre-deformed tooth has the
following advantage; the maximum value of von-Mises stress of the pre-deformed tooth is
smaller than that of the traditional tooth. Therefore, the pre-deformed gate rotor’s tooth is
superior to the traditional tooth.
Some geometric conditions with the deviation function are developed. The designed
deviation function is used to reshape the traditional gate rotor’s tooth. Based on this method, a
10
Patent 6106241, 2000.
16. Aquino, Giovanni, Choroszylow, Ewan, “Mainrotor Machining Process and Apparatus,”
U.S. Patent 5598618, 1997.
17. Jensen, David L.,“Method for Manufacturing Fluid Compression/Compressor Rotor,”U.S.
Patent 6122824, 2000.
18. Shyue-Cheng Yang, “Profile Generation and Analysis for a pp-Type Single Screw
Compressor,”International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technolog, v. 30, No. 9-10,
September, 2006, 789-796.
19. Litvin, F. L., Gear Geometry and Appiled Theory, 1994, Prentice-Hall, inc.
20. F. L. Litvin and Alfonso Fuentes, Gear Geometry and Applied Theory, Cambridge
University Press, 2nd Ed, New York 2004.
21. Chou, P. C. and Pagano, N. J.,“Elasticity Tensor, Dyadic, and Engineering Approaches,”
Dover Publication, 1967, INC., New York.
22. Elishu Zahavi, “The Finite element method in machine design”, Prentice Hall, Englewood
Cliffs, 1992.
23. VisualNastran 4D 2000 Manual, Engine Version 6. 3. 0. 189.
Table 1 Four basic single screw compressor
Type Screw Gate rotor
CP Cylindrical Planar
PC Planar Cylindrical
PP Planar Planar
CC Cylindrical Cylindrical
Table 2 Design parameters of the proposed
compressor
Parameters Screw Rotor Gate Rotor
Number of
Teeth n
s =6 ng =11
xC and xd
250 mm 250 mm
yC and yd
250 mm 250 mm
h 60
N 11
 ng ng
r 108 mm 108 mm
 36/
Fig. 1a PP-type single screw compressor
Fig. 1b Gate rotor with rigid support
Fig. 2 Design of gate rotor for rigid body
