以數學規劃法進行多層次全域繞線 
“A Mathematical Programming Approach for Multilevel Global Routing” 
計畫編號：NSC95-2221-E-035-131 
執行期間：95 年 8 月 1 日 至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：陳德生 逢甲大學資訊工程系副教授 
 
一、 中文摘要 
全域繞線是 VLSI 實體設計中的一個重要
步驟。它的主要目的是在不違反繞線資源的限制
下，替所有需要連結的電路元件規劃出大致的連
接線路。傳統的解決方法可分為循序處理和同時
處理這兩種。基本上，循序處理的方法是每一次
只處理一條線路的繞線。這種方法的處理速度很
快，但最後的繞線結果受到線路處理的先後順序
影響很大。同時處理的方法則是採用全域最佳化
的技術。這種方法可提供較完整的繞線資訊與較
佳的結果，但卻需要較長的執行時間。 
本計劃的研究重點，主要著重於探討不同
設計考量下的各種全域繞線問題，並提出適合且
有效的整數線性規劃技術。另外，由於多層次設
計概念在解決大型問題上極為有效，我們也發展
出一個可運用在多層次設計後端且能配合全域
繞線結果與避免障礙物的多層史坦那樹建構演
算法。 
英文摘要 
Global routing, which involves finding 
approximate paths for the wires connecting the 
elements of the circuit without violating resource 
constraints, is an important part of VLSI physical 
design. It has been traditionally solved using 
sequential or concurrent methods. The sequential 
techniques tend to route each net at a time. These 
methods are fast, but the routing quality highly 
depended on the order in which the nets are 
routed. The concurrent techniques attempt to 
solve the problem using global optimization 
techniques. These methods can provide a global 
view of the circuit’s routing, but take a 
considerable amount of time.  
This research project focuses on different 
global routing problems under various design 
metrics. Different ILP models and techniques for 
varied combination of design metrics are 
investigated. Furthermore, since multi-level 
design concept has been proven usefully in 
solving large-scale problems, we also develop a 
multi-layer obstacles avoiding Steiner trees 
construction algorithm which can be used in the 
bottom of multi-level design to cope with the 
prior global routing results. 
 
二、 計畫的緣由與目的 
With the continuous and rapid increase in 
complexity of VLSI designs and fabrication 
technologies, global routing problem becomes 
more difficult to solve. Different and conflicting 
design objectives need to be considered in the 
global routing stage. Thus, modeling the global 
routing problem with several conflicting 
objectives, as well as maintaining its simplicity 
and efficiency becomes an important issue for 
today's complex and large VLSI circuit design. 
The goal of global routing is to decide the 
connection pattern for each net and satisfy 
different objectives. The input to the global 
routing problem consists of a netlist that indicates 
the interconnections between terminals and 
placement information including the terminal 
positions and the location of wiring channels in 
between them. The global routing problem is 
typically presented as a graph problem, where the 
routing regions and the module connections are 
modeled using grid graph. 
Every global routing method depends on the 
evaluation metric employed to measure the 
goodness of the technique. There are two 
traditional primary objectives in the automated 
global routing problem: minimizing chip area and 
example for 7 terminals and 3 obstacles in three 
routing layers. 
Minimal spanning tree construction 
In Figure 1(b), all terminals and obstacles are 
projected on a plane called projection plane. In 
the projection plane, we do not consider the 
wirelength effect of obstacles. For each terminal, 
we add edges to its nearest neighbors which are 
in different directions (on the top, at the bottom, 
to the left, to the right, at the right-top, at the 
left-top, at the right-bottom, and at the 
left-bottom). Figure 1(c) shows the edges 
connected to terminal E. Figure 1(d) also shows 
the edges connected to terminal A. When all 
terminals build their edges, a spanning graph is 
established, as shown in Figure 1(e). Next, we 
use the maze algorithm to compute the actual 
wirelength cost for edges in Figure 1(e). For 
every edge, we construct a simple grid graph, 
which is formed by extending horizontal and 
vertical lines through these two terminals and the 
obstacles between them, to calculate the 
wirelength cost. After obtaining each edge’s cost, 
the Kruskal’s algorithm is used to produce a MST, 
as shown Figure 1(f). 
 
Fig. 1 The first phase flow 
RSMT transformation 
Based on the MST given in Figure 1(f), 
subtrees, each of which composes of three 
terminals and two connected edges, are classified 
as 3-terminal nets. For example in Figure 2(a), 
there are three 3-terminal nets which are DEF, 
CDG, and ABC. Again for each 3-terminal net, a 
simple grid graph, which is formed by extending 
horizontal and vertical lines through these 
terminals and the obstacles between them, is 
constructed and the maze algorithm is used to 
connect these three terminals, as shown in Figure 
2(b) and Figure 2(c). In Figure 2(c), the maze 
algorithm is executed twice to connect DG and 
CG. Steiner points may be introduced in this 
stage to optimize the routing cost. After that, each 
3-terminal net is assigned a gain which is 
calculated by subtracting the new routing cost 
from the sum of the two original edges’ cost. The 
gain values of all 3-terminal nets are sorted in 
descending order. According to the order, 
3-terminal nets are included, without forming any 
cycles, in the final routing tree. An instance of a 
RSMT is shown in Figure 2(d).  
 
 
Fig. 2 The second phase flow 
 
Table I lists nine test cases used in [6]. Table II 
compares the wirelength results with [6] and [7]. 
Table III compares the run-time with [6] and [7]. 
As shown, our approach is very competitive with 
these state-of-the-art methods in terms of total 
wirelength and run-time.  
 
ISCAS 2007 會議 出席心得報告 
會議出席者: 逢甲大學資訊工程系 陳德生 
 
一、會議相關重要事實陳述： 
ISCAS (IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and Systems)是國際電子電機工程師學
會每年定期舉行的會議。ISCAS 也是電子工程領域中電路與系統設計、數位信號處理等研究方向的
主要專業會議，每年均吸引世界各地眾多的研究人員與工程師參加。今年的舉辦地點在美國 New 
Orleans。會議時間從 2007 年 5 月 27 到 5 月 30 共 4 天。 
今年論文的投稿總數為 1826 篇，分別來自 44 個不同的國家。最後共有 892 篇論文被大會接受，
接受率為近年來最低的 49%。這些論文被安排在 18 個 tracks，124 lectures 以及 57 poster sessions 中發
表。除此之外，這次的研討會議還包含了 3 個 keynote speeches 分別是 
1 月 28 日 “Redshift - the explosion of massive scale and its implications for circuits and systems”, given 
by Dr. Greg Papadopoulos, Vice President of Research and Development, Sun Microsystems Inc. U.S.A.  
1 月 29 日 “Si Technology Roadmap For Ubiquitous Computing, Sensing, and Perception” given by Dr. 
Dennis Buss , Vice President of Silicon Technology Development, Texas Instruments Inc. U.S.A.  
1 月 30 日 “Emotional Intelligence Technology and the Death of Clippy” given by Dr. Rosalind W. Picard, 
M.I.T. Media Laboratory, U.S.A. 
此次參加會議的主要目的是發表一篇題目為“Noise-Aware Floorplanning for Fast Power Supply 
Network Design＂的學術論文。論文是安排在5月29日下午4:20的 ”Placement & Routing” Session
進行口頭報告。過程中也針對聽眾的問題提出適切的答案，使他們更了解我們的研究成果。 
二、心得： 
隨著電路設計愈來愈複雜，對於電腦輔助設計（Computer-Aided Design）工具的需求也愈來愈
殷切。從本次大會的研究論文趨勢來看，這個領域在未來的幾年應該還是熱門的研究方向。另外，
大會安排多個關於 embedded system applications、SoC core based reuse methodology、modeling and 
methodology for Radio Frequency IC 的 special sessions。豐富的討論內容與精闢的講演都令人獲益良
多。同時，在會議期間也藉此機會與世界各地的專家學者交換不少研究心得。 
三、結語： 
亞太地區在 VLSI 設計與製造上已在世界上扮演舉足輕重的地位，而且這個角色會越來越重要。
ISCAS 在研究與經驗分享上提供學者與業界一個非常好的交流的機會，值得鼓勵參加。最後要感謝
學校的經費補助，使得本次的會議行程能圓滿順利完成。 
 
