  
客語語音合成系統中自動擷取語彙語義與韻律訊息之研究 
An Empirical Study on Break Prediction of Prosody 
for Hakka’s TTS Systems and Its Application 
 
 
Abstract: 
We focus on adding breaks to speeches, with emphasis on 
predicting the types of break. There are three kinds of breaks: 
major break, minor break and no-break between words. We 
train a break model and predict break based on the data 
mining approaches - Bayesian network (BN) and CART 
classifier. The best precision rate for testing achieves 80.17% 
based on the CART. Fourteen students familiar with Hakka 
joined to evaluate the prosody quality of synthesized 
speeches. The results with 10 scale achieves 7.54 score in 
average.  
Because mobile communication and blogging systems are 
the trend in recent year, we will generate the bilingual 
Blogging system by based on the integration of mobile cells, 
natural speech and Google Map Databases. Such a system 
will provide functions of e-learning and digital archive . 
furthermore, we constructed the applications APPs on mobile 
cell with connection to the systems, which can provide 
feasible and intelligent way for users. 
Keywords: Data Mining; Hakka, TTS, Speech Processing,  
Mobile Cells. 
1. Introduction 
1-1 Geographic Information Science (GIS) 
Geographic Information Science (GIS) is a field in which 
the space information will be accessed to provide many types 
of useful information. Users can retrieve GIS database on our 
living environment. GIS applications are so widely popular, 
such as environmental evaluation, traffic navigation, 
transportation, ecology protection, urban and metropolitan 
sight-seeing, and so on [1, 2, 3].  
Google map and earth (M/E) provides us the visual 
geographic Information with the framework to add a number of 
unique features which can be used to find nearby places across a 
wide range of categories. Google M/E will help users find what 
they’re looking for faster with the Google Places Autocomplete 
API. We will work with a powerful database over 50 million 
businesses and points and this database is updated daily with 
user-moderated contributions. 
In recent years, requirements of mobile cells and 
intelligent applications have been increasingly grown because 
of the promotion of Internet technologies. It leads to the wide 
and popular requirement for speech due to its natural way for 
user communication. There are two principal domains in 
speech processing: speech recognition and speech synthesis, 
The former is to recognize the speech signal with respect to 
the text output. On the other hand, the latter is used to 
synthesize the speech output with frequent prosody by 
inputting the text or articles inputs.  
1-2 Text-to-Speech System (TTS) 
A speech synthesis system is a Text-to-Speech (TTS) 
system; its application is very widespread and popular, like 
the man-machine interface design, language studies, language 
translation, 104 directory assistance and e-book, and so on. 
TTS system may be applied for multilingual translation and 
online e-learning in web. User may hear digital content and 
learn the language with the natural and prosody speech [4, 9, 
10,11, 12]. 
In the project, the modules in our text-to-speech system 
for Chinese and Hakka’s language are shown in in Fig. 1. 
There are four principal as followings:  
Fig. 1: the Modules of TTS systems. 
 
  
 
Table 1: Tone shapes and tonal relationship between  
Chinese and Hakka speeches. 
 
2-3 Data Mining  
Data mining is a useful technology with great potential to 
extract important information or features in larger database. 
Data mining software allows users to solve business decision 
problems. Data mining can be applied into wide variety of 
domains, such as text & Web mining, class categories, 
financial mining, knowledge discovery, etc. 
Currently, the most popular techniques in data mining are as 
followings:  
A) Artificial neural networks  
B) Decision trees 
C) Genetic algorithms 
D) Nearest neighbor method 
E) Rule induction 
3. Break Prediction for Hakka 
The intonation within sentence will be varied with 
respect word lexicon and semantic cues. The TTS module 
should predict prosody parameters, such as speech duration, 
break, pitch, energy and tone. In addition, the synthesized 
speech must have intelligibility and clarity so that the 
listeners understand the meaning of Hakka’s speech. In the 
paper, the concatenation of basic synthesis unit is adopted 
without the pitch adjustment of speech. There are 16 
punctuation marks in sentence, and an appropriate break will 
be assigned to the each mask during the speech synthesis 
module.  
As described above, it is appropriate that the break is an 
important feature of prosody [11]. According to the people’s 
convention, applicable break with various duration will be 
inserted into the sentence while they are pronounces the 
speeches. It will always upgrade the intelligibility and clarity 
synthesized speeches. In the paper, breaks are categorized 
into 4 types, as shown in Table 2.  
The approaches used for prosody prediction can be found 
in several works; such as statistical methods [5, 6], neural 
networks [1] and data mining [7, 8]. In the paper, we adopted 
the data mining approach.  
 
Table 2: Breaks types for Hakka’s TTS. 
Situation Break type 
between five punctuation “。！？；，” BIG 
between prosodic phrase ( five 
punctuation) 
Major 
between prosodic word (in prosodic 
phrase) 
Minor 
between word (in prosodic word) no 
4. System frameworks 
4.1 System Configuration 
  In our blogging system of bilingual languages, two-tier 
Client/Server has been constructed, as shown in Fig. 3. The 
system consists of following components: 
1) Blogger server 
2) Intelligent mobile cells 
3) Management of Client users 
It is obvious that the mobile cells can communicate with 
system server by TCP/IP or wireless connection (Wifi or 3G). 
for the client site connection, users will employ the bolgging 
functions by management monitor and then retrieve and 
query the database in remote server. 
 
Fig. 3: Hakka’s applications with GIS 
 
4.2 Modules in Blogger Server 
In the blogger server, there are two main modules: 1) 
Database of GIS contents for Google Map/Earth, and 
2)text-to speech (TTS). GIS contents will be stored in the 
database by web crawler and all these contents will be sent to 
TTS modules for speech output. As described in Sec. 1.2, the 
principal object of TTS is to provide the speech with correct 
and natural prosody for GIS contents.  
Ther are two database for TTS: 
1)Chinese Lexicons of bilingual languages 
2)Speeches unit of Chinese and Hakka for synthesis, and  
Mobile cell
Bloger Servers 
 
user 
Subsystems 
Word 
segment
TTS 
Speech
database
Google map
Lexicons
  
Strategies for Successful Online Communities. London: 
Addison Wesley (ISBN 0-201-87484-9)    
[6]Peter Kollock, 1999, The Economies of Online 
Cooperation: Gifts and Public Goods in Cyberspace, in 
Communities in Cyberspace.Marc Smith and Peter 
Kollock. London: Routledge. 
[7] H. Rheingold, The Virtual Community: The MIT Press, 
2000. 
[8] A. Sashima, N. Izumi and K. Kurumatani, Location-aware 
middle agents in pervasive computing, in The 2004 
International Conference on Pervasive Computing and 
Communications, CSREA 2004, 2004, pp. 820-826. 
[9] Yu-Ho Tsai, The Extraction of Prosodic Hierarchy in a 
Mandarin Text-to-Speech System, NCHU master thysis, 2005. 
[10] Remco R. Bouckaert, Bayesian Network Classifiers in Weka 
for Version 3-5-7, July 2007. 
http://www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/ml/weka 
[11]  Min Chu, Hu Peng, Hong-yun Yang and E.Chang, Selecting 
Non-Uniform Units from a Very Large Corpus for 
Concatenative Speech Synthesizer, Proceedings of ICASSP 
2001, IEEE, Volume 2, pp.785 - 788, Salt Lake City, 2001. 
[12] Levis, J. M., Pickering, L., Teaching Intonation in Discourse 
Using Speech Visualization Technology. System 32, pp. 
505-524, 2004.  
 
一、參加會議經過 
    本次研討會在大陸著名的古城西安市舉行，會場位於西安市區之喜來
登飯店，大會第一天安排有多場講座，speaker 主要有三位學者:  
1) Sam Kwong (City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong)， 
講 題 為 : Techniques for Evolutionary Multi-objective Optimization 
State-of-the art and some developments， 
ABSTRACT: Nowadays, many real world problems are multi-objective in 
nature in the sense that multiple conflicting criteria need to be optimized 
simultaneously. As a consequence, instead of a global optimal solution in the 
case of single-objective optimization, usually, the optimum of multi-objective 
optimization corresponds to a set of so called Pareto optimal solutions for 
which no solutions can win in all objectives, due to the conflict between 
objectives. Evolutionary Multi-objective Optimization (EMO) algorithms 
have been widely used in practice for solving these multi-objective 
optimization problems for several reasons. At first, EMO approaches can 
tackle problems with nonlinear, non-differentiable, or noisy objective 
functions. Secondly, the population based search manner opens new 
opportunities in dealing with multi-objective optimization problems by 
searching for multiple alternatives simultaneously. Therefore, EMO has 
become one of the most active research areas in evolutionary computation. In 
this talk, I will first give an in--depth introduction to the EMO field and 
subsequently presented three of our recent developments which are 1) the 
hypervolume based technique, 2) adaptive operator algorithms and 3) 
Improved Jumping Gene paradigm. 
2) Chih-Min Lin (Yuan Ze University, Taiwan )，講題為: Cerebellar Model 
Neural Networks and Their Applications on Control, Signal Processing, and 
Image Classification,  
ABSTRACT: Based on biological prototype of human brain and improved 
understanding of the functionality of the neurons and the pattern of their 
interconnections in the brain, a theoretical model used to explain the 
information-processing characteristics of the cerebellum was developed 
independently by Marr (1969) and Albus (1971). Cerebellar model neural 
network (CMNN) or called as cerebellar model articulation controller 
(CMAC) was first proposed by Albus in 1974. CMNN is a learning structure 
that imitates the organization and functionality of the cerebellum of the 
human brain. That model revealed the structure and functionality of the 
various cells and fibers in the cerebellum. The core of CMNN is an 
結束。 
二、與會心得 
    ICMLC 多年來在大陸各大城市舉行，每年在不同的城市進行，達到各方
之要求，與會有機會與各方學術單位交流，亦有機會認識不同城市的文化與
風格，可謂一舉二得。 
    除了學術發表之外，亦利用此行參訪西安古城的歷史文化，到多處參訪，
其中兵馬蛹與碑林博物館令人印象深刻，這些文物之保存十分不易，這方面
有些值得借鏡。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
四、建議 
    未來，臺灣如有機會可多舉辦此類國際性的學術活動，另可考慮在臺灣
不同的都會城市，亦可達到國際宣傳的目的。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
     帶回本年度研討會出版之光碟資料(論文集)，以及明年度 DM，以及古
城西安簡介等資料。 
 
 
 
 
 
左 1 為作者，中為臺北大學沈榮麟教授，右為沈教授夫人。 
 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：黃豐隆 計畫編號：100-2221-E-239-037- 
計畫名稱：客語語音合成系統中自動擷取語彙語義與韻律訊息之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
This project addresses the researches on extract automatically prosody and Natural 
speeches of Hakka's language (客家話) based on the TTS (Text-to-speech) speech 
technologies. 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
This project aims at the prosody generation for Hakka＇s language based on the 
data mining approaches, and  implement the TTS system on Internet. Our system is 
composed of the following four components: 1) Text analysis, 2) Mandarin to Hakka 
word translation, 3) Prosody prediction, and 4) Speech generation module. More 
than 2427 monosyllabic speech units and 2234 word speech units of Hakka and several 
silences with various durations have been recorded as basic units for speech
synthesis. 
We focus on adding breaks to speeches, with emphasis on predicting the types of 
break. There are three kinds of breaks: major break, minor break and no-break 
between words. We train a break model and predict break based on the data mining 
approaches - Bayesian network (BN) and CART classifier. The best precision rate 
for testing achieves 80.17% based on the CART. Fourteen students familiar with 
Hakka joined to evaluate the prosody quality of synthesized speeches. The results 
with 10 scale achieves 7.54 score in average. Based on the comprehensive 
evaluation, it is obvious that our system can synthesize the clear and natural 
Hakka＇s speeches. 
