1. Introduction 
 
The chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) has become a primary method for planarization of 
semiconductor wafers. The CMP process involves a simultaneous interaction between a polishing 
slurry, a semiconductor wafer, a polishing pad and a diamond disk. CMP is achieved by polishing 
wafers against a rotating polyurethane pad. The slurry that permeates the pad top contains 
submicron-sized abrasives, and reaction chemicals will gradually consume the wafer surface. The 
main components of the CMP process are the slurry, pad, diamond conditioner, clean equipment, 
and end-point detector. Among these components, the slurry plays a vital role in terms of removing 
material and ensuring the high surface quality of the polished wafers. The polishing pad 
significantly affects the polishing results, including aspects such as wafer material removal and 
uniformity. The diamond conditioner is employed periodically and continually dressing pad to 
regenerate the asperity structure of the pad [1-2]. CMP processing is a major factor in determining 
the semiconductor manufacturing cost. Disadvantage of the CMP process is its high cost of 
consumable. The consumables (slurry, pad, and diamond disk) used in CMP processing account for 
over 60% of the total CMP cost. Up to 30% of supplied slurry is wasted due to centrifugal force of 
platen and wasted slurry is also one of the reasons which increase the cost of consumables [3-4]. 
Consumable cost reduction has become another focused effort. In addition, it is known that CMP 
can obtain fine surface but low machining efficiency. In order to overcome this problem, many 
researchers have been worked to develop new methods including abrasive-free CMP [5], 
fixed-abrasive CMP [6], ECMP [7] and CMG [8] as well as new consumables such as pads, slurries 
and dressers to achieve higher polishing efficiency [9-11].  
Ultrasonic machining (USM) is of particular interest for the machining of non-conductive, brittle 
work piece material such as engineering ceramics. Because the process is non-chemical and 
non-thermal, materials are not altered either chemically or metallurgically [12]. USM has been 
variously termed ultrasonic drilling, ultrasonic cutting, ultrasonic abrasive machining and rotary 
ultrasonic machining. Due to the benefits including significantly increased materials removal rate, 
piezoelectric transducer (PZT) located in the polishing head to create high frequency. The power 
supply for USM is more accurately characterized as a high power generator that offer the user 
control over both the frequency and power of the generated signal. This electrical signal is supplied 
to transducer for conversion in to mechanical motion. PZT changes the electrical signal into 
mechanical vibration signal due to the piezoelectric effect and the mechanical vibration is amplified 
and transported to the polishing head by the ultrasonic, therefore the rotating polishing head with 
copper substrate can vibrate in the vertical direction. The polishing head is vibrated ultrasonically 
and rotated at the same time while being pressed against the rotating polishing pad surface at a 
constant pressure. Simultaneously the slurry is provided to the interface of copper substrate and 
polishing pad. Then the surface material of copper is removed by the combined action of ultrasonic 
vibration and traditional CMP.  
 
      
 
 
 
Piezoelectric 
transducer 
Holder 
Wafer Polishing pad Transducer 
Power 
supply 
Controller 
Servo 
motor 
Servo 
motor 
Servo 
motor 
Holder 
Polishing plate 
Polishing pad Wafer 
Mechanical vibration 
Slurry 
Working zone 
Zoom-in view of working zone 
Zoom-in view of wafer- slurry- pad contact 
Fig. 1 Detail schematic diagram of the ultrasonic assisted chemical 
mechanical polishing test set-up 
A polyurethane pad was mounted on a table disk that rotated at a speed of 50 rpm. The oscillation 
speed of the conditioner was fixed at about 5mm/sec. The applied load was fixed at approximately 3 
kg.  
 
2.2 UV-CMP consumable preparation 
The polishing pad used herein is IC 1000 concentric grooves, manufactured by Rohm-Haas from 
polyurethane-based foam. The pads are skived, or cut, from a cake. Foam density, open or closed 
cells, cell shape and intrinsic polymer properties determine the final properties of the pad. 
Polyurethane pads contain a distribution of asperities, pores and grooves. The pore volume 
represents approximately 35% of the total volume, but can be varied by altering the manufacturing 
conditions. The isolated pores are spherical with diameters in the range 20-70 microns. The 
asperities of the pad surface are important since they determine the area of contact with the surface 
of the wafer.  A conventional diamond pad conditioner contains single crystalline diamond grits of 
length 200 microns, for example that are attached to a metal substrate such as stainless steel by 
either the electroplating of nickel or brazing with an alloy. The conventional diamond pad 
conditioner used herein is the DiaGrid dresser, manufactured by Kinik Company of Taiwan; it is 
bonded with metal using a brazed nickel alloy. The diameter of the brazed diamond disk was 
100mm; the spacing between diamonds was 800 microns, and the diamond protrusion was 100 
microns, as presented in Fig. 2. The wafer used was a copper substrate with a thickness of 0.5 mm, 
and the dimension was 100 mm. The polishing slurry used in the experiments was C7092 (Cobat 
Co.). The settings of the main machining parameters for the present study are summarized in table 
1. 
 
Table 1 Experimental conditions 
Parameters 
Polishing conditions Polishing pressure ( 4 psi), platen/carrier speed(40/42rpm), 
slurry flow rate (150ml/min) 
Dressing conditions Dressing load (3kg), diamond/ pad speed (40/50 rpm), 
grooves of the pad surface, to remove the slurry residues and polish by-product of the pad surface, 
to regenerate the asperity structure of the pad. The wear mechanism of a pad by a diamond during 
conditioning is mainly abrasive wear process and can be caused as follow and as shown in Fig. 3 
and Fig. 4 [23]. When diamond grit has a dressing pressure exceeding the elastic deformation of the 
pad, the diamond grit can penetrate into the pad surface. And the pad material begins to wear and 
generates a groove with ridges on the both sides due to relative motion action between the diamond 
grit and the pad.  
         
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5 shows the variation of pad cut rate dressed by TDD and UV-TDD. During the dressing 
process, the pad cut rate was one of the most important factors that influenced the surface condition 
of the pad. The amount of pad surface that is removed per unit time is the pad cut rate. The pad cut 
rate is unit of μm/hr in the paper and it is computed by the pad thickness removed divided by 
dressing time. In the figure, the average pad cut rate of the UV-TDD approximately 113 μm/hr, is 
E 
D 
V 
Diamond grit 
Pad 
Diamond grit Chip 
Fig. 3 Schematics of pad dressing mechanism, D: penetrating depth and E: 
amount of elastic deformation 
W 
W 
Fig. 4 3D profile of the pad created by diamond grit penetrating into the pad  
Ridge
Grooves 
 
 
 
 
 
100
120
140
160
180
200
220
TDD UV-TDD
Dressing system
To
rq
ue
 (k
g-
m
m
)
 
 
 
4.2 Pad surface topography of DD and UV-TDD during dressing  
Figure 8 displays representative images of the pad surface measured using stylus-type instrument 
after 20 minutes of dressing generated by TDD and UV-TDD, respectively. In the figure 
comparisons of asperities in the pad, aR of about 5.05µm for UV-TDD is less than aR of about 
Fig. 6 Torque signals between diamond disk and pad as a function of dressing time dressed by 
TDD and UV-TDD 
TDD
UV-TDD 
Fig. 7 Variation in torque force between diamond disk and pad dressed by TDD and 
UV-TDD 
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6
6.5
TDD UV-TDD
Dressing system
R
a 
(u
m
)
 
 
    
 
 
 
4.3 Material removal rate of CMP and UV-CMP during polishing 
In the polishing process of the copper CMP, Material on the copper surface are removed by 
combined chemical reaction of slurry and mechanical action by means of the abrasive particles in 
slurry that adhere to the top of the pad surface [29-30]. Copper polishing mechanism typically can 
be caused as follow and shown in Fig.11: (1) The oxidant reacts with copper surface in the slurry 
and forms Cu2O species or CuO species. (2) Anions of a complexing agent react with Cu2O or CuO 
species, forming a passivation films on the copper surface. (3) Fine particle in the slurry contact 
with the passive layer, and bond with molecules of passive layer. (4) When fine particle separated 
from the water surface, they removed passive layer molecules from the copper surface. Figure 12 
Fig. 9 Variation in surface roughness dressed by TDD and UV-TDD 
Fig. 10 SEM images of an IC1000 pad formed by TDD and UV-TDD 
  
 
10
15
20
25
30
35
40 60
Plarform ratational speed (rpm)
M
R
R
(m
g/
hr
)
CMP
UV-CMP
 
 
4.4 Cutting force and wafer surface roughness of CMP and UV-CMP during polishing 
The changes of torque force between the polishing pad and copper substrate were also studied, as 
shown in Fig. 13 and 14. The torque profile indicated that the average torque of UV-CMP, which is 
approximately 41kg-mm, was lower than that of CMP, which is approximately 58kg-mm. Tawakoli 
et al [24] studied ultrasonic assisted grinding compared to conventional grinding. A decrease of up 
to 60% of normal grinding forces has been achieved due to plastic deformation of the machined 
surface in case of using ultrasonic oscillation is less than that in conventional machining. Liang et al 
[32] pointed out that ultrasonic assisted grinding process not only decrease in grinding force 50%, 
but also simultaneously reduces in surface roughness by 10%. The polished surface of copper for 
traditional CMP and UV-CMP are shown in Fig. 15 and Fig. 16. The average surface roughness Ra 
Fig. 12 Variation in Material removal rate for CMP and UV-CMP 
Cu atoms 
Cu oxide 
Cu passive 
layer 
Slurry 
particle Slurry 
particle 
Cu passive 
layer 
Fig. 11 Schematic of copper polishing mechanism 
  
 
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
CMP UV-CMP
Polishing system
R
a 
(n
m
)
 
CMP 
UV-CMP
Fig. 14 Torque signals between pad and copper substrate as a function of polishing time 
polished by CMP and UV-CMP 
Fig. 15 Variation in surface roughness polished by CMP and UV-CMP 
UV-CMP is 1.448 nm, which is better than 2.378nm of the traditional CMP. This result indicates 
that UV-CMP and UV-TDD have the potential to effectively be used as a wafer polishing and pad 
conditioning methods in the future. 
 Acknowledgement 
The author would like to thank Kinik Company and the National Science Council of the Republic of 
China, Taiwan, for financially supporting this research under Contract No. 
NSC-98-2622-E-167-005-CC5. He is thankful to express their special gratitude to the General 
Manager Dr. J. C. Sung and President Y. L. Pai for their valuable suggestion and comment. 
References  
 
[1] M.Y. Tsai, Polycrystalline Diamond Shaving Conditioner for CMP Pad Conditioning, Journal 
of Material Process Technology, 210 (2010) 
[2] M.Y. Tsai, Y. S. Liao and J. C. Sung, Novel Diamond Conditioner Dressing Characteristics of 
CMP Polishing Pad, International Journal of Machine Tools & Manufacture, 49 pp. 922-729 
(2009) 
[3] Y. J. Seo, W. S. Lee and P. Yeh, improvements of oxide-chemical mechanical polishing 
performances and aging effect of alumina and silica mixed abrasive slurries, Microelectronic 
Engineering, 75 (2004) 361-366 
[4] T. F. Bibby, J. A. Adams, K. Holland, G. A. Krulik, P. Parikh, CMP CoO reduction: slurry 
reprocessing, thin solid films, 308-309 (1997) 538. 
[5] V. H. Nguyen, A. J. Hof, H. V. Kraneburg, P. H. Woerlee, F. Weimar, Copper Chemical 
Mechanical Polishing using a Slurry-Free Technique, Microelectronic Engineering, 55 (2001) 
305-312. 
[6] P. van der Velden, Chemical mechanical polishing with fixed abrasive using different subpads 
to optimize wafer uniformity, Microelectronic Engineering, 20 (2000) 41-46. 
[7] S. Jeong, S. Lee, H. Jeong, 2008, Effect of polishing pad with holes in 
[17] T. B. Thoe, D. K. Aspinwall, N. Killey, combined ultrasonic and electrical discharge 
machining of ceramic coated nickel alloy, Journal of material processing technology, 92-93 
(1999) 323-328. 
[18] C. Zhang, R. Rentsch, E. Brinksmeier, Advances in micro ultraonic assisted lapping of 
microstructures in hard-brittle materials: a brief review and out look, International Journal 
Machine Tool and Manufacture, 45 (2005) 881-890 
[19] K. Suzuki, T. Uematsu, M. Lwai, S. Ninomiya, S. Sano, T. Nakagawa, A New Complex 
Grinding method for ceramic materials combined with ultrasonic vibration and 
electrodischarge machining, Key Engineering materials, 329, 2007, 439-444. 
[20] H. Suzuki, S. Hamada, T. Oondo, Y. Yamagata, T. Higuchi, ultraprecision finishing of 
micro-aspheric surface by ultrasonic two-axis vibration assisted polishing, CIRP 
Annals-manufacturing technology, 59 2010 347-350 
[21] H. Suzuki, T. Moriwaki, T. Okino, Y. Ando, development of ultrasonic vibration assisted 
polishing machine for micro aspheric die and mold, CIRP Annals-manufacturing technology, 
55 2006 385-388 
[22] N. Kobayashi, Y. Wu, M. Nomura, T. Sato, precision treatment of silicon wafer edge utilizing 
ultrasonically assisted polishing technique, Journal of material processing technology, 201 
(2008) 531-535. 
[23] M.Y. Tsai, and Y. S. Liao, Dressing Characteristics of Oriented Single Diamond on CMP 
Polyurethane Pad, Machining Science and Technology, Vols. 13 pp. 92-105, (2009) 
[24] T. Tawakoli, B. Azarhoushang, M. Rabiey, Ultrasonic assisted dry grinding of 42CrMo4, 
International Journal Advance Manufacture Technology, 42 (2009) 883-891. 
[25] S. F. Chang, G. M. Bone, Burr size reduction in drilling by ultrasonic assistance, Robotics and 
computer-integrated manufacturing 21 (2005) 442-450. 
[26] Y. C. Lin, B. H. Y an, Y. S. Chang, Machining characteristics of titanium alloy (Ti-6Al-4V) 
using a combination process of EDM with USM, Journal of Material Processing Technology 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/12/28
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 超音波輔助鑽石修整器與高壓噴射修整CMP拋光墊技術開發研究
計畫主持人: 蔡明義
計畫編號: 98-2622-E-167-005-CC3 學門領域: 加工與製造
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
