Abstract 
The supply of petroleum and natural gas is getting significantly limited. Therefore, 
technologies that use the most abundant energy-coal to improve the efficiency of energy 
production are finding their niches. Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) is one of the 
ideal techniques to solve environmental and economic problems caused by using coal. Hot gas 
clean up of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) is a crucial issue in the development of the IGCC system. 
Nowadays, all commercial IGCC power plants utilize wet processes to clean up sulfur containing 
syngas. However, syngas, cooled by the wet processes would decrease the thermal efficiency of 
the system significantly. Thus, a high temperature cleaning of sulfur containing gases by dry 
techniques is hot for the researchers in this field. 
To reduce manufacture cost of sorbents, heavy metal contaminated soil may be a suitable 
candidate for the cleaning of H2S from hot coal gas in IGCC system. The main objective of this 
study is attempting to use heavy metal contaminated soil as a high temperature sorbent for 
removal of hydrogen sulfide from hot coal gas. Results indicated that the contaminated soils can 
be as regenerable sorbent for the removal of H2S in this study. In addition to zinc, iron also plays 
an additional species to react with H2S and increased the overall sulfur removal capacity. 
accompanying smaller amounts of silicon and calcium oxides. Because of its low cost, it has been 
widely applied in other process such as hydrodesulfidation, hydrodechlorination reactions and 
cements manufacture [1-3]. Slimane and Abbasian used metal oxide-containing waste materials 
as a desulfurization sorbent. They found that metal oxide waste materials represent viable 
efficiency for the removal of H2S from coal gas in the temperature range of 673-773K [4].  
Jang and his group developed a natural manganese ore containing other metal oxides (CaO 
and Fe2O3) for the high-temperature removal of H2S from coal gas [5]. Furimsky tested several 
types of waste catalysts containing Mo, Ni and V derived from the hydroprocessing for the 
removal of H2S form coal gas [6]. Sasaoka investigated six different iron ore and performed their 
H2S efficiency under high temperature [7]. It is surprising that manganese, iron ores or waste 
catalysts, they could control the H2S concentration from percent level to several ppm. In addition, 
most of them also could be reused after regeneration treatment. From these results, waste 
materials may be the alternative sorbent for the removal of H2S from coal gas. 
To the consideration of energy saving and resource reuse, the sorbent with high reactivity 
and low cost will be the important role in the future decades. On the basis of this consideration, 
heavy metal contaminated soils are taking into account for the removal of H2S in this study due to 
to its large quantity, easy obtaining and relatively low obtained cost. 
Experiment and materials 
Contaminated soils preparation 
The studied soils were collected from the one of severely contaminated sites recognized by 
the Department of Environment Protection Administration, Taiwan and have been assessed as the 
fifth level according to the Taiwan EPA soil pollution classification (concentration of Zn exceed 
300 ppm). Heavy metal contained water from Erh-Jen River was used to irrigate the farmlands 
and leaded to the soils’ contamination. The Zn-contaminated soils were sampled at a depth of 0 to 
15 cm from a site that is near metallurgical factories around the side of Erh-Jen River in southern 
Taiwan. Unwanted materials such as leaves, tree roots and pebbles were removed from samples 
and then dried at ambient temperature for a week. The collected soils were ground with an agate 
mortar and sieved to pass through a 2-mm sieve.  
Sorption experiments 
A schematic diagram of this system is presented in Fig. 1, consisting of three parts: (1) a 
coal gasified gas simulation system; (2) a desulfurization reactor system; and (3) an exiting gas 
analyzing system. The vol% composition of simulation coal gases were involving H2S (1), CO 
(25), H2 (15), and balance N2. Gases were supplied from gas cylinders and flow rates were 
monitored through mass flow controllers soap bubble meter and the concentrations of all 
compounds calculated at the condition of STP. Prior to entering the reactor the gases were 
Results and discussion 
A series of experiments with reaction temperatures from 400℃ to 700℃ were conducted to 
examine the effect of the reaction temperature on the use of the contaminated soil for the sorption 
of H2S. As shown in Figure 2, the optimal reaction temperature was found to be at 550℃. 
Elevated reaction temperature cannot enhance the removal efficiency. This maybe associated with 
the presence of iron species in the contaminated soils. It is well-known that iron oxides are also 
important useful species for removal H2S and the suitable reaction temperature with H2S has been 
reported around 450-500℃ [5]. On the other hand, commercial IGCC plants have confirmed that 
the suitable reaction temperature for use zinc solid sorbent was around 650℃ [8]. Therefore, it is 
expected that the optimal reaction temperature is ranged from 500-650℃.  
To facilitate the efficiency, the sulfur sorption capacity was determined and recorded in 
Table 1. The theoretical sulfur uptake capacity means that the zinc and iron were completely 
reacted with H2S and this value is about 8.7 g-Sulfur/Kg-soils. Experimental sulfur uptake 
capacity indicates that sulfur capacity determined from breakthrough time. Actual sulfur uptake 
capacity reveals that sulfur capacity determined from element analysis. Comparison these results, 
the highest sulfur capacities were found at 550℃. This implied that the reaction temperature 550
℃ is the best operating temperature for use of contaminated soil in this study.  
The multiple sorption/regeneration cycles are also tabulated in Table 1. No huge changes in 
the sulfur sorption capacity, indicating contaminated soils can be regenerated and thus be used 
after regeneration process.  
To understand the changes in structure before and after removal reaction, XRD was carried 
out to detect the crystalline phase of zinc and iron in the contaminated soils. Unfortunately, no 
iron or zinc peaks were detected. This probably attributed to the small contents of zinc and iron or 
the crystalline phases of zinc and iron were in amorphous state. For better understanding the 
structure of the iron and zinc species after sorption process, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy 
(XPS) is used to survey the chemical state of the iron and zinc species. The XPS spectra of Zn2p 
and Fe2p of the reacted contaminated soil are shown in Figure 3. For a case of Zn2p, only one peak 
was fitted through the Original software modeling and regression fitting and was assigned as the 
interaction of zinc and sulfur. The possible zinc species was likely attributed to ZnS. The 
formation mechanism of the Zn-S is expressed as follows: 
)(2)(2 gg OHZnSSHZnO +→+  
On the other hand, it is evident that the spectra are divided into two proportions for Fe2p (at 
about 708 and 721 eV, respectively). One is attributed to Fe2p3/2 (708 eV) and the other is Fe2p1/2 
(721 eV). For Fe2p1/2, this spectrum is defined as a satellite peak. Results of the deconvolution 
analysis were found to be composed of Fe(III)-S, Fe(II)-O and Fe(III)-O. The peak fitting results 
reveal that the Fe(III)-S is the dominant species for Fe-S system.
Duration time (min)
0 10 20 30 40 50
O
ut
le
t H
2S
 c
on
ce
nt
ra
tio
n 
(p
pm
)
0
2000
4000
6000
8000
10000
12000
400oC
500oC
550oC
600oC
700oC
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2
