 II 
計畫中文摘要 
    本計劃針對蜂巢式無線網路的頻道配置及來電控制提出一個結合分散式動
態頻道配置與Fuzzy來電控制的方法以便降低new call 的 blocking probability及
handoffcall 的dropping probability。 
    本計劃分成二大階段。第一階段即針對蜂巢無線網路的頻道配置問題提出一
個以 Petri Net 為基礎的分散式動態頻道配置法以克服行動交換中心的 overload 
問題。第二階段除了要把第一階段所研擬的頻道配置方法應用範圍更加擴大外，
同時也將結合所研擬的分散式動態頻道配置法與Fuzzy來電控制以提升蜂巢無線
網路的服務品質。 
    在第一階段中，我們所研擬的分散式動態頻道配置的可行性的關鍵在於(i)
如何處理同頻干擾問題，(ii)如何以有限的資訊處理頻道配置問題，(iii)如何處理
頻道重配置問題。針對這些關鍵點，我們已成功的提出以Petri Net 為基礎的頻道
配置及頻道重配置的方法。而且它是ㄧ個自動化的配置機制。除此之外，我們也
提出理論證明所提出的Petri Net 的適當性且不會產生同頻干擾的問題。同時我們
也進行電腦模擬並與現有之方法做效能比較。 
    由於第一階段的頻道配置是針對3-cell cluster 系統所研擬，為了更擴展他的
應用範圍，我們假設蜂巢網路系統為7-cell cluster 系統,同時也提出了在此假設下
的分散式動態頻道配置法。在第二階段的後半段，我們便結合了此7-cell cluster 
系統的頻道配置法與fuzzy來電控制法而成功地提升了蜂巢網路系統的服務質。 
 
關鍵詞: 分散式動態頻道配置、來電控制、Petri 網、自動化配置機制、頻道干   
擾、服務品質。 
 
 
 
 1 
一. 前言 
近年來無線行動通訊是電信事業中成長得最快速的領域。為了有效地運用有
限的無線電波頻道，無線通訊系統將所覆蓋的區域分割成六角型的cells, 而同一
個頻道可在相距夠遠而不會互相干擾的cells 中重覆使用(此即同頻干擾限制)。由
於行動通訊使用者的大量增加，如何充分利用有限的頻道數是無線通訊研究中一
個很重要的主題， 而頻道配置(channel assignment)便是達到此目標的一個關鍵手
段。傳統的動態頻道配置是每當任何一個new call 進來，即在系統的行動交換中
心(mobile switching center)集中進行頻道配置[1]-[4]。這樣的配置方式可以整體地
考量同頻干擾限制並formulate 成一個選擇最佳配置頻道的組合最佳化問題。這
種集中式動態頻道配置有下列缺點：(i)行動交換中心可能overload 而導致
failure[5]。(ii)由於解組合最佳化問題需耗費冗長的計算時間以求得最佳配置頻道
[2],[6],[7],[8]，將使new call 由於一次不成功的assignment 即被 blocked 而導致
blocking probalibility 的上升。為了克服集中式頻道配置的缺點，分散式動態頻
道配置(distributed dynamic channel assignment) 便被提出來[9]-[11]。這種分散式
動態頻道配置法是在各別cell 的基地台(base station)決定該cell 的 new call 的配
置頻道，所以它可以避免掉行動交換中心overload 的問題。但同時它也將面臨下
列的挑戰：(i)如何克服同頻干擾限制。(ii)如何在有限的資訊下(每一個cell 僅有
鄰近cells 的資訊)決定適當的頻道配置。(iii)如何在 call 結束後，進行頻道重配
置(channel reassignment)。 
    由於在 3 - cell cluster系統中，頻道干擾限制僅須考量同頻干擾限制簡稱為
CCC (co-channel constraint)，但一般在探討無線蜂巢網路系統時，7-cell cluster系
統是較符合實際應用的系統，然而7 -cell cluster系統的頻道干擾限制有三種，除
了CCC外，尚有ACC (adjacent channel constraint)及CSC (co-site constraint)。固此
前面所述的三個挑戰中的(i)將改成如何克服CCC,ACC及CSC等頻道干擾限制。 
除了頻道的配置外，為了提升服務品質，來電控制(call admission control)是
 3 
二. 研究目的 
    在[9]-[11]中所提出來的分散式動態頻道配置法僅在處理前節所述挑戰(i)所
提的同頻干擾問題。由於目前現有的方法中缺乏一個明確且精準的模式(model)
來描述分散式頻道配置系統，因此[9]-[11] 所提出的方法都用了很繁瑣的步驟去
詢求周圍cells 對所提出頻道的使用許可，這種繁瑣的詢問步驟也出現在其他的
分散式頻道配置方法中[7],[12]。在本計劃的第一階段研究中，我們已成功地提出
一個清楚而透明的模式來處理挑戰(i)所提的同頻干擾問題。 
基本上，分散式動態頻道配置系統可被視為一個離散事件動態系統 (discrete 
event dynamic system)[13]，因此，在此計劃中，我們研擬出一個可以精準描述它
的模式-Petri net[13]來克服(i)之挑戰並以 Petri net 為基礎研擬克服(ii)及(iii)之挑
戰的頻道配置及頻道重配置策略。Petri-net 是一個自動自發式(spontaneous)的模
式。因此，我們將可以避免掉前述其他方法所使用的繁瑣的詢求頻道使用許可的
步驟。關於挑戰(ii)及(iii)，由於現有的中央式動態頻道配置方法[1] - [4]大都使用
packing condition 及resonance condition 做為頻道配置(channel selection) 及頻道
重配置(channel reassignment)的準則，但這些conditions 並不適合用在分散式動態
頻道配置，因為每個基地台僅有其鄰近cells的information 而已。所以我們提出在
Petri-net 模式下適合分散式動態頻道配置的頻道配置與頻道重配置的方法。 
由於下一代的蜂巢無線網路將是多媒體的傳輸工具，它將結合聲音、影像、
以及數據的傳輸 [14]。要達到這個目的,且又能充分因應龐大的使用量,以Petri net
為基礎的自動化分散式動態頻道配置將是最重要的基礎。 
為了將第一階段所研究的以Petri-net為基礎的分散式動態頻道配置與重配置
法擴展到可同時處理CCC，ACC及CSC等頻道干擾限制。我們在第二階段的研究
中提出channel state的概念，並在每個cell中建立一個channel state table以達到分散
式動態頻道配置與重配置的目的。 
    將頻道配置與來電控制結合是一個既提升服務品質 (降低 handoff  call 的
 5 
三. 文獻探討 
一般而言，頻道配置的方法可概分為四類： (i) 固定頻道配置(fixed channel 
assignment)策略[15],[16]。 (ii)動態頻道配置 ( dynamic channel assignment ) 策略
[1]-[4]。(iii) 借頻配置(borrowing channel assignment)策略[17],[18]。(iv)混合式頻
道配置(hybrid channel assignment) [6],[19]。在這四種策略中，固定頻道配置策略
最容易實現但卻最沒有彈性，因此這種策略在大部分的情況下所導致的 call 
blocking rate最高。動態頻道配置策略最有彈性，且被證實優於借頻策略[1]，同
時它所推展出來的方法也可應用在混合式頻道策略中。為了克服集中式頻道配置
的缺點，分散式動態頻道配置 (distributed dynamic channel assignment) 便被提出
來[9]-[11]。在[9]-[11]中所提出來的分散式動態頻道配置法僅在處理挑戰(i) 所提
的同頻干擾問題。由於缺乏一個明確且精準的模式(model)來描述分散式頻道配
置系統，[9]-[11]所提出的方法都用了很繁瑣的步驟去詢求周圍cells 對所提出頻
道的使用許可，這種繁瑣的詢問步驟也出現在其他的分散式頻道配置方法
[7],[12]。在本計劃的第一階段研究中，我們已成功地提出一個清楚而透明的模式
來處理挑戰(i)所提的同頻干擾問題。 
    截至目前為止，同時處理CCC,ACC及CSC等頻道干擾的頻道配置法大都為
中央式的[20],而同時處理此三種頻道干擾的分散式頻道配置法並不存在，因此本
計劃在第二階段所研擬的分散式動態頻道配置法是創新的方法。 
    而一般來電控制皆以固定頻道配置法為基礎[21]-[22]。主要原因為一個cell
在固定頻道配置前提下，可以很容易決定是否仍有剩餘頻道可供使用以進而達成
各別cell的來電控制的目的。但由於固定頻道配置法的頻道使用效率低，因此本
計畫所研擬的以分散式動態頻道配置法為基礎的Fuzzy來電控制法除了是創新的
方法也將進一步地提升服務品質(即降低 handoff call的dropping probability )及增
加獲利(即降低new call的blocking probability)。 
 
 7 
auxiPC ={ iS , iS , iA , iE , iCIU , iCRL }代表輔助的channel conditions的places的集合及
ncP ={ Q,B }代表new call的condition的places的集合。 
對transition而言，我們將針對各個event不同的屬性來做timed與untimed的分
類，而在timed中又可分為deterministic及stochastic. 我們定義untimed transitions 
的集合為 utT ，而stochastic timed 及deterministic timed的condition 集合分別為 stT
與 dtT 。這三個集合中的transition (event)的細節如下所示： utT ={new call 進來, new 
call 被拒絕, 配置channel}, stT ={new call 已結束,進行channel 重配置}, dtT  ={ 選
擇channel, 強制改變鄰近cells的channel condition,強制恢復鄰近 cells 的 channel 
condition}。以上的event的意義大都如字面所示，惟獨 dtT 中最後的兩個events,我
們可稍加說明如下。強制改變鄰近cell的channel condition 的目的主要是當本cell 
配置channel 後，則鄰近cell 必須將該channel 的condition 由AV 改變成U1N 或
由U1N 改變成U2N 或由 U2N 改變成 U3N 。而強制恢復鄰近cells 的 channel 
condition 的目的主要是當本cell 因call 結束而釋放出channel 時，便會強制鄰近
的cell 將該channel的condition 由U1N 變成AV，或由U2N 變成U1N 或由 U3N
變成U2N。 
我們已將上面所定義的places及transitions適當地安排成一PN graph 並使其
dynamics能完成整個new call進入系統並取得動態的頻道配置以至 call結束的程
序而不產生同頻干擾。其細節請參考附錄一(本計畫研究成果在 IEEE  Trans.m 
Vehicular Technogy期刊所發表的全文論文)。 
 
(２)配置頻道及頻道重配置的研擬 
由於new call的發生是一個非常隨機的行為，沒有人可以預測何時在那個cell
會有 new call，所以resonance  condition [1] - [4]便顯得不切實際，而 packing 
condition[1]-[4]的目的便是希望能達到resonance condition 的效果，所以也相當難
以達陣。然而從blocking 的觀點，一個new call之所以被blocked，其實是因為沒
 9 
所以這個criteria 將可在頻道配置時，使available channel 的減少數變小，亦即系
統中將留存更多的available channel 可供配置。頻道重配置的criteria 可說是反頻
道配置的criteria 而行，詳如附錄一。 
第二階段：(一)將分散式動態頻道配置擴展為適合7-cell cluster的系統 
    由於7-cell cluster 系統的channel reuse distance較3-cell cluster 系統來得大，
如圖二中粗黑邊界所示，所以也較容易造成channel interference。 
1
3
11
25
17
6
34
2
10
24
18
7
35
4
12
26
16
5
33
9
23
19
8
36
13
27
15
14
32
22
20
21
37
28
30
29
31
 
圖二: A portion of the cellular network. 
基本上，在 7-cell cluster 的系統中，我們所考慮的 channel interference 有三種： 
(a) Co-channel constraint (CCC)：在 channel reuse distance 內的任何兩個 cells 不可
使用相同的頻道。 
(b) Adjacent channel constraint (ACC)：相鄰的 cells 不可使用相鄰的頻道。 
(c) Co-site constraint (CSC)：同一個 cell中所使用的頻道需有一定的距離(specified 
distance)。 
      為了在分散式動態頻道配置時避免造成上述的頻道干擾 ， 我們定義了
channel state。首先我們令{1,0,-1,……,-n}代表所有 channel state 所形成的集合。
其中 1 代表 channel 正被使用。0 代表 channel 可以用來配置。-1 (或-n) 代表此
channel 若配置的話將被 1 個(或 n 個)正在使用的 channel 所干擾。 
 11 
    由於若 channel 10 被用來配置給 new call，則它的 state 將由 0 變成 1，同時
在黑框界線內之 channel state 將減 1，例如 cell 1 的 channel 8 將由-2 變成-3，cell 
2 的 channel 9 將由 0 變成-1，cell 10 的 channel 10 將由 -1 變成 -2。由於 0 代表
available channel，channel state -1 之 channel 代表 unavailable channel，因此我們
所提出的 channel selection 的 criteria 便可敘述如下： 
    選擇使 available channel變成 unavailable channel的數目最少的可配置頻道來
配置。也就是選擇一個(請參閱附錄二)在其黑框內之 channel state 為 0 之 channel
數最少的 available channel。 
    由於 channel reassignment 的原則恰恰與 channel assignment 反其道而行，因
此在 channel reassignment 的 criteria 為： 
    選擇使number of unavailable channels變成available channels最多的正在使用
的頻道釋出。也就是一個在其黑框內之 channel state 為-1 之 channel 數最多的正
在使用頻道(請參閱附錄二)。 
第二階段：(二)以分散式動態頻道配置為基礎之 Fuzzy 來電控制 
    來電控制的目的是要提升無線蜂巢網路系統的服務品質，亦即降低 handoff 
call 的 dropping probability 但由於我們所使用的分散式動態頻道配置法可大大的
提升頻道的使用效率，因此，我們在降低 handoff call 的 dropping probability 時，
也可同時降低 new call 的 dropping probability 及 new call 的 blocking probability。
為了同時兼顧 handoff call 的 dropping probability 及 new call 的 blocking 
probability，我們便 formulate 了如下的 multi objective optimazation problem： 
,
min [ ( ) ( )]
p q
E b n d h                                       
其中b(n)及d(h)個代表了 new call的 blocking probability及 handoff call的 dropping 
 13 
 
圖三(c)： 3x 的 membership function 3  
其中，在圖三(a)所示 1x 的 memberslip function 1 中的 q 為 0.2 及圖三(b)所示
2x 的 memberslip function 2 中的 p 為 0.1。每當 p 及 q 的值改變時， 1x 及 2x  的
memberslip function 即改變，因此將導致 [ ( ) ( )]E b n d h  改變，而我們的問
題即為根據我們所提出的 fuzz 來電控制法則來求出我們所 formulate 出的 multi 
objective optimization problem 的最佳 p  及 q  的解。 下面我們將描述所提出
的 Fuzzy 來電控制法則： 
所提出的 Fuzzy 來電控制法則 ：我們定義變數 y 為是否接受 new  call 的
probability，而我們所設計的來電控制的原則為若進來的 call 為 handoff call，只
要有 available channel 便接受，而若進來的 call 為 new call 則以 random number 
generator 來根據 y 的值來決定是否接受 new call。y 的求得是根據 fuzzy control
的方法。首先我們設計了下列的 fuzzy rule set： 
Rule Set: 
Rule 1: If x1 is B, x2 is H, and x3 is H, then y is L.  
Rule 2: If x1 is B, x2 is H, and x3 is M, then y is L.  
Rule 3: If x1 is B, x2 is H, and x3 is L, then y is L.  
Rule 4: If x1 is B, x2 is M, and x3 is H, then y is HM.  
Rule 5: If x1 is B, x2 is M, and x3 is M, then y is ML.  
 15 
五. 結果與討論 
    本兩年度計畫的成果可說相當豐碩，我們在第一階段中不但研擬出分散式頻
道配置的PN 模式、適合PN 的頻道配置及重配置方法。更以理論證明了所提出
的PN 模式之適當性且不會產生同頻干擾的問題。這些細節請參閱附錄一所附之
論文。它已發表在IEEE Trans.On Vehicular Technology 上。 
    在第二階段中，我們已成功地將第一階段所研擬的分散式動態頻道配置法擴
展到7-cell cluster系統上，同時也已將此結果發表於今年6月在澳門舉行的ICSSE 
2011，此論文收錄於本報告之附錄二。同時，我們也成功地結合了分散式動態頻
道配置法與fuzzy來電控制以提升無線蜂巢網路的服務品質並增加其獲利，我們
也將把此研究結果寫成期刊論文。 
六.參考文獻 
[1] E. Del Re, R. Fantacci, and L.Ronga, Adynamic channel allocation technique 
based on Hopfield neural networks,”IEEE Trans. on Vehicular Technology,vol.45    
no.1, pp.26-32, Feb. 1996. 
[2] H.G.. Sandalidis, P.P. Stauroulakis, and J.Rodriguez-Tellez, “An efficient 
evolutionary algorithm for channel resource management in cellular mobile 
systems, “ IEEE Trans. on EvolutionaryComputation, vol.2, no.4, pp.125-137, 
Nov. 1998. 
[3] K.L. Yeung and T.-S.P.Yum, “Compact pattern based dynamic channel 
assignment for cellular mobile systems,“ IEEE Trans. on Vehicular Technology, 
vol.43, no.4, pp.892-896,Nov. 1994. 
[4] J.C.-I. Chuang, “Performance issues and algorithms for dynamic channel 
assignment,” IEEE J. Select Areas Commun., vol.11, no.6, pp.955-963, 1993. 
[5] Y. Zhany, S. K. Das, and X. Jia, “D-cat:an efficient algorithm, for distributed 
channel allocation in cellular mobile networks,” Mobile Networks and 
 17 
[15] W.C.Y. Lee, Jr., Microware cellular telecommunication systems. New York: 
McGraw-Hill, 1989. 
[16] M. Zhang and T.S.P. Yum,“Comparisons of channel-assignment strategies in 
cellular mobile telephone systems,” IEEE Trans. on Vehicular Technology, 
vol.38, no.4, pp. 211-215,1989. 
[17] K.-N. Chary, J.-T. Kim, C.-S. Yim, and S. Kim, “An efficient borrowing channel 
assignment scheme for cellar mobile systems,” IEEE Trans. on Vehicular 
Technology, vol.47, no.2,pp.602-608, Nov. 1998. 
[18] H. G. Sandalidis, P.P. Stauroulakis, and J.Rodriguez-Tellez, “Borrowing channel 
assignment strategies based on heuristic technique for cellular systems,” IEEE 
Trans. on Neural Networks, vol.10, no.1,pp.176-181, Jan. 1999. 
[19] T. J. Kahwa and N.D. Georgans, “A hybrid channel assignment schemes in 
large-scale, cellular structured mobile communication systems,” IEEE Trans. 
Commun., vol.CM-26, pp.432-438,1978. 
[20] M. Lima, A. Araujo, and A. Cesar, “Adaptive genetic algorithms for dynamic 
channel assignment in mobile cellular communication systems,” IEEE Trans. Veh. 
Technol., vol. 56 no. 5, pp. 2685-2696, Sep. 2007. 
[21] Y. Fang and Y. Zhang, “Call admission control schemes and performance 
analysis in wireless mobile network,” IEEE Trans. on Vehicular Technology, vol. 
51, no. 2, pp. 371-382, March 2002. 
[22] E. A. Yavuz and V. C. M. Leung, “Computationally efficient method to evaluate 
the performance of guard-channel-based call admission control in cellular 
networks,” IEEE Trans. on Vehicular Technology, vol. 55, no. 4, pp. 1412-1424, 
July 2006. 
 
 
LIN AND CHAN: PN-BASED AUTOMATED DISTRIBUTED DYNAMIC CHANNEL ASSIGNMENT FOR CELLULAR NETWORK 4541
selection and reassignment criteria that are most suitable for
the proposed automated DDCA, which is another contribution
of this paper.
We organize this paper in the following manner: In Section II,
we model the automated DDCA using PN and present
our channel-selection and channel-reassignment schemes. In
Section III, we present the properties and prove the adequacy
of the proposed PN and show the satisfaction of hard constraint.
In Section IV, we test our PN-based automated DDCA method
on a typical cellular network with nonuniform traffic patterns
and compare the test results with those obtained by the existing
methods. Finally, we draw a conclusion in Section V.
II. PETRI NET MODEL FOR AUTOMATED DISTRIBUTED
DYNAMIC CHANNEL ASSIGNMENT
A. Motivation
The methods to model a DES are not limited to PN. There are
other methods, such as finite-state automata, Markov chain, and
queuing-type models. The cellular network consists of a group
of cells, for example, there are 49 cells in a 7× 7 parallelogram-
shaped cellular network. Supposing that X1 represents the state
space of a channel in cell 1, then the state space of a channel in a
cellular network consisting of N cells can possibly be as large
as X1 ×X2 × · · · ×XN if modeled by finite-state automata.
This means that combining multiple cells rapidly increases
the complexity of the finite-state automata model. A similar
situation occurs to the Markov chain model. However, the
PN model possesses an ability to decompose or modularize a
complex interacting system, such that the interactions between
neighboring cells can be resolved by adding a few places and
transitions, which will be indicated in Remark 2. Then, from a
PN model, one can conveniently see the dynamics of individual
cells, discern the level of their interaction, and ultimately de-
compose a cellular network into logical distinct cell modules,
as will be seen in this section. Such a decomposition capability
is hardly achieved by a queuing-type model. Thus, PN is most
suitable for modeling an automated DDCA.
B. Basic Terminologies of PN
The PN model consists of two parts: 1) the PN graph and
2) the PN dynamics. The PN graph considered here is a bipartite
graph (P, T,A), as shown in Fig. 1(a), where P denotes the
finite set of places marked by circles, T denotes the finite set of
timed and untimed transitions marked by bars, and A denotes
the set of directed arcs from places to transitions and from
transitions to places in the graph, i.e.,
P = {p1, p2, p3, p4, p5}
T = {t1, t2}
A =
{
(p1, t1), (p2, t1), (t1, p3), (t1, p4)
(t1, p5), (p4, t2), (p5, t2), (t2, p2)
}
.
The weight of each directed arc considered in this paper is 1.
Fig. 1. (a) Example PN graph. (b) Resulting state of (a) after t1 fires.
In PNs, events driving a DES are associated with transitions.
A transition is enabled to occur (or fire), provided that the
conditions related to the places input to this transition are
satisfied. An untimed transition immediately fires once enabled,
whereas a timed transition will fire after a time duration once
enabled, unless specifically specified. The mechanism indicat-
ing whether a condition related to a place is met or not is
provided by the presence of a token in that place. For example,
in Fig. 1(a), both p1 and p2, which are the conditions input
to t1, are satisfied; thus, t1 is enabled and can fire. The state
of a PN graph is defined as its marking, which is represented
by the number of tokens in all places. For example, we let
[p1, p2, p3, p4, p5] denote the vector of all places, and the state
of the PN graph in Fig. 1(a) is [11000], which represents that
there is one token in p1, one token in p2, and no token in p3,
p4, and p5. The PN dynamics is to describe the transition of the
state in a PN, and the state transition mechanism is provided by
moving tokens through the net when any transition fires, hence
changing the state of the PN. In other words, the state of the PN
graph changes when an event occurs, i.e., a transition fires. The
tokens in the places are moving through the net in the following
manner. If a transition fires, then the number of tokens in the
places input to the fired transitions is decreased by one and
increased by one in the places output from the fired transition.
For example, the marking in Fig. 1(b) is the resulting state of the
marking in Fig. 1(a) when t1 fires. The foregoing description
about the PN is a general terminology. Some modifications
are needed for the PN that models the automated DDCA, as
described in the following two sections.
C. Definitions and Assumptions
Preliminaries: We let C = {c1, . . . , cNc} denote the set of
all channels in the cellular network, where ci is the identifier of
the ith channel, such that a smaller index represents a lower
frequency, and Nc denotes the total number of channels in
the system. For the sake of presentation, we assume that the
Authorized licensed use limited to: Chang Gung University. Downloaded on October 14, 2009 at 04:02 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
LIN AND CHAN: PN-BASED AUTOMATED DISTRIBUTED DYNAMIC CHANNEL ASSIGNMENT FOR CELLULAR NETWORK 4543
the events in our PN into the set of proper transition type, such
that Tas = {call completes (cc) & channel reassigned (cra)},
Tai = {new call arrives (nca), call blocked (cb), update the
number of calls in the cell (uncc), channel reselection (crsj ,
j = 1, . . . , 26 − 1), assign channel (ac)}, Trfdc = {channel
selection (cs)}, Trsd={channel yet acquired by the ith first-tier
cell (cyai), channel has been selected by the ith first-tier cell
(chsi), i = 1, . . . , 6}, and Tri = {force to change (frtij , j =
1, 2, 3, i = 1, . . . , 6), force to recover (frrij , j = 1, 2, 3, i =
1, . . . , 6)}. We will describe the purpose of the events that can-
not be told directly from their meaning in the following section.
Remark 2: The set of places Pauxi = {S¯i, Si, Ai, Ei,
CIUi, CRLi, i = 1, . . . , 6}, the sets of transitions Trfdc =
{cs} and Trsd = {cyai, chsi, i = 1, . . . , 6}, as well as
their firing mechanism, and the set of transition Tri =
{frtij , frrij , j = 1, 2, 3, i = 1, . . . , 6)} are designed to re-
solve the interactions between neighboring cells.
D. PN Graph and Its Dynamics for Automated DDCA
The PN graph for modeling the automated DDCA is shown
in Fig. 4. Due to the page space limitations, we only show
the PN graph for one cell, which is the part enclosed by the
dashed line and marked on top as the considered cell. To
explain the interaction between neighboring cells, we show
minimum representation of the channel conditions in first-tier
cell 1, which is also enclosed by the dashed line and is at the
right-hand side of the considered cell. For the sake of easier
reference, we rewrite the meaning of each transition type and
each transition in Fig. 4. In the following, we describe the
dynamics of the proposed PN step by step.
New Call Arrives: When a new call arrives, the transition
nca will first check whether the number of calls in the cell,
including the assigned and the yet assigned calls, exceeds Nc.
If it exceeds Nc, then the call will be rejected; otherwise, nca
will fire, and an unmarked token will be output to place Q, as
can be observed from Fig. 4. In the meantime, we will add one
to the number of calls in the cell. Since checking the number
of calls in the cell almost consumes no time, we categorize nca
in Tai, as previously described. The unmarked token shot to
place Q will be appended with a lifetime, which is equal to the
call-request response time. A switch denoted by a slant line
segment over the arc is used at the output of place Q, such that
if the remaining lifetime (RL) of the unmarked token is greater
than 0, then Q is connected to transition cs and connected to cb
otherwise, as indicated in Fig. 4. Note that the RL will decrease
as time passes.
Channel Selection: In the case that Q is connected to a Trfdc-
type transition cs at time, for example, t, suppose that the
enabling conditions for cs hold, i.e., if there are marked tokens
in place AV, and if the same marked tokens also appear in places
S¯i for all i = 1, . . . , 6, as can be observed from Fig. 4, then the
channel-selection scheme will be carried out to select a channel
to assign for the new call with the least RL. The channel-
selection scheme will be presented in the following section.
Remark 3: 1) The reason why the channel conditions of the
first-tier cells have to be in S¯i, for all i = 1, . . . , 6, can be stated
in the following. If the condition of the channel in the first-tier
cell i is not in S¯i, it implies that this channel has been selected
earlier or in use by first-tier cell i, then the considered cell will
not consider this channel as a candidate for assignment. 2) If
the condition of the channel in the considered cell is AV, then
the condition of this channel in any first-tier cells has no chance
to be U3N due to the hard constraint. This is the reason why
S¯ does not include the condition U3N. 3) Since a new call
may not successfully be assigned with the selected channel, the
unmarked tokens in place Q may be more than one and with
different RLs. To choose the unmarked token with the least RL
to assign is a reasonable choice based on the first-come first-
serve principle. 4) In Fig. 4, we only show the place S¯1, as well
as S1, from first-tier cell 1 in dotted circles and use the dots to
represent similar places from the other first-tier cells.
It is possible that the conditions of all the available channels
that enable cs change by the end of executing the channel-
selection scheme and disable cs. If such a situation occurs, no
channel is selected, and the new call will stay in Q waiting
for further assignment before RL = 0. This is the reason why
we categorize cs in Trfdc, and the details of such a situation
will be presented later in the channel-selection scheme (see
Section II-E). However, if a channel is successfully selected,
then a marked token corresponding to the selected channel
in AV and in S¯i, i = 1, . . . , 6, and the unmarked token with
the smallest RL in Q will be shot, and one token with the
same mark will be output to place S at time t + Δtcs, as
can be observed from Fig. 4, where Δtcs denotes the time
duration for the timed transition cs as the time needed to
execute the proposed channel-selection scheme. Δtcs is on the
order of 10−5 s obtained from our simulations, as presented
in Section IV. In the meantime, a token with the same mark
will also output to S¯i for i = 1, . . . , 6 because S¯i and Si are
designed for recording the channel condition of first-tier cell i,
as indicated in the previous section. That means that the marked
tokens in S¯i or Si will be neither gained nor lost. Therefore,
whenever S¯i or Si inputs to any transitions, there will be an arc
output from that transition to S¯i or Si, as observed from Fig. 4.
Furthermore, it should be noted that the token in Si (or S¯i) may
arbitrarily be moved to S¯i (or Si) whenever the condition of the
corresponding channel in first-tier cell i changes.
Spontaneous Handshaking: Place S inputs to both Trsd-type
transitions cyai and chsi, whereas S¯i and Si input to cyai
and chsi, respectively, for i = 1, . . . , 6, as shown in Fig. 4.
Apparently, the marked token associated with the selected
channel being present at S¯i (or Si) implies that the channel has
yet to be acquired (or has been selected) by first-tier cell i. As
previously indicated, the enabling and firing of the Trsd-type
transition is complicated and will be explained here. Follow-
ing from the previously mentioned channel-selection, suppose
that the marked token associated with the selected channel is
present at place S at time t + Δtcs. Then, for each i, the timed
transitions cyai and chsi will start to count the time, and either
cyai or chsi will fire at t + Δtcs + Δtd, depending on which
is enabled at the time instance right before t + Δtcs + Δtd,
because the corresponding marked token may move from S¯i
to Si during (t + Δtcs, t + Δtcs + Δtd). Details of this situa-
tion are subsequently described. At time t + Δtcs, the marked
token shown in S¯i represents the condition of this channel
Authorized licensed use limited to: Chang Gung University. Downloaded on October 14, 2009 at 04:02 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
LIN AND CHAN: PN-BASED AUTOMATED DISTRIBUTED DYNAMIC CHANNEL ASSIGNMENT FOR CELLULAR NETWORK 4545
first-tier cell i allows the considered cell to use this channel.
However, if the considered marked token changes from S¯i to
Si during (t + Δtcs, t + Δtcs + Δtd) and stays in Si at the
time instance right before t + Δtcs + Δtd, transition chsi will
fire at t + Δtcs + Δtd, and a token with the same mark will
be output to place Ei, the condition of which represents that
first-tier cell i has selected this channel earlier than the con-
sidered cell. Based on the assumption that each cell will send
the updated condition of each channel to all the neighboring
cells whenever it changes, the above handshaking process is
spontaneous, which differs from the response by request in the
previously mentioned requesting channel utilization permission
from neighboring cells in some existing DDCA methods.
Remark 4: The time durations for transitions cyai and chsi,
i = 1, . . . , 6 are all the same as Δtd, which counts from the
moment that the considered marked token is present at S.
Channel Assignment: All places Ai, i = 1, . . . , 6 having the
same marked tokens implies that this channel has yet to be
selected by any first-tier cell. Then, the transition ac is enabled
and instantaneously fires; subsequently, a token with the same
mark is output to place IU, as indicated in Fig. 4. In the
meantime, a message indicating the considered channel is now
in use will be sent to all the first-tier cells. When this message
is received at first-tier cell i, a marked token associated with
the channel being in use will appear in the place CIUi, which
is represented by dotted circles in Fig. 4 regarding the part of
first-tier cell i interacting with the considered cell. CIUi will
input to the Tri-type transition frtij , j = 1, 2, 3. The purpose
of frtij is to force first-tier cell i to change the condition of the
channel from AV (available) to U1N (used by one neighboring
cell) or from U1N to U2N (used by two neighboring cells) or
from U2N to U3N (used by three neighboring cells) to reflect
the fact that the channel is now in use in the considered cell.
Therefore, there are also input places AV for frti1, U1N for
frti2, and U2N for frti3 from first-tier cell i, as shown in
Fig. 4, and one of frtij , j = 1, 2, 3 will immediately fire once
enabled. It should be noted that from the viewpoint of first-tier
cell 1, the considered cell is first-tier cell 4, and this is why we
put CIU4 and the corresponding transitions frt41, frt42, frt43
in Fig. 4.
Channel Reselection: Note that for each i, the marked token
can appear in one and only one of Ai and Ei, because only
one of cyai and chsi can fire. Therefore, if the marked token
is present at least one of the six Ei, i = 1, . . . , 6, then one and
only one of the transitions crsj , j = 1, . . . , 26 − 1 is enabled
and instantaneously fires, as indicated in Fig. 4. The above
situation implies that at least one of the six first-tier cells
has selected this channel for assigning their new call earlier
than the considered cell, which then has to reselect a channel.
Subsequently, a token with the same mark will be output to
place AV, and an unmarked token will be output to place Q
with updated RL, as can be observed from Fig. 4. We will then
check whether the RL of this unmarked token equals 0. If yes,
transition cb is enabled as indicated in Fig. 4, and the unmarked
token is shot to place B, which indicates the new call is blocked
and enable the transition uncc to decrease the number of calls
in the cell by one; otherwise, a channel-reselection process is
carried out by following previously mentioned procedures.
Remark 5: Differing from the centralized DCA and some
DDCA [10], any new call with unsuccessful channel assign-
ment in our PN-based automated DDCA method can be retried
as long as its RL > 0. Thus, we have resolved the second
disadvantage of centralized DCA indicated in Section I.
Call Completes and Channel Reassigned: Once the marked
token appears at place IU, the transition cc of type Tas is
enabled and will be fired once the call completes. The time
duration of cc is stochastic, which is determined based on an
exponential probability distribution. When cc really occurs,
the transition cra will simultaneously occur to carry out the
channel reassignment scheme, which will be presented later, to
select the released channel. Then, a marked token associated
with the released channel will be output to place AV, as indi-
cated in Fig. 4, and a message indicating the released channel
is sent to all the first-tier cells. When this message is received
at first-tier cell i, a marked token associated with the released
channel will appear in places CRLi, i = 1, . . . , 6, represented
by dotted circles in Fig. 4 inside the part of first-tier cell i
interacting with the considered cell. The place CRLi will input
to the transitions frrij , j = 1, . . . , 3. Similar to frtij , the pur-
pose of frrij is to force first-tier cell i to recover the condition
of the channel from U1N to AV or from U2N to U1N or from
U3N to U2N to reflect the fact that the channel is released in the
considered cell. Therefore, there are also input places U1N for
frri1, U2N for frri2, and U3N for frri3 from first-tier cell i.
Similar to frtij , one of frrij , j = 1, 2, 3 will immediately
fire once enabled. In Fig. 4, we also put CRL4 and frr41,
frr42, and frr43 to be the graphical expression that describes
the relationship between the considered cell and first-tier cell 1
regarding channel release. This completes the dynamics of
channel assignment and channel release for one new call.
Remark 6: From the foregoing description, the proposed
PN-based automated DDCA method has achieved the event-
driven automation based on the assumption that each cell will
send the updated real channel condition of each channel to all
neighboring cells whenever it changes. That means that when
the event of a new call arrival occurs, the process controlled
by the proposed PN that leads the new call to one of the two
results, i.e., blocked or assigned a channel until call completion,
is spontaneous.
E. Channel-Selection Scheme
To maximize channel utilization, the packing condition and
the resonance condition are taken into account in most of the
centralized DCA methods in selecting a channel to be assigned
for a new call. In centralized DCA, these two conditions are
either formulated as terms in the objective function over all cells
governed by the MSC (or a central controller) [3], [4], [10] or
put into typical compact patterns [5] for assignment reference.
Such approaches cannot be implemented in DDCA, because
each cell can only have the information from neighboring cells.
However, in the real world, the call behavior is of random
nature, and where and when a new call will arrive is unpre-
dictable. Therefore, a compact pattern like resonance condition
is too ideal to occur, and the assignment based on the packing
condition can hardly reach the resonance condition either. Thus,
Authorized licensed use limited to: Chang Gung University. Downloaded on October 14, 2009 at 04:02 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
LIN AND CHAN: PN-BASED AUTOMATED DISTRIBUTED DYNAMIC CHANNEL ASSIGNMENT FOR CELLULAR NETWORK 4547
In other words, we will let transition cra occur to determine
which of the channels that are in use, including the one just
completing the call, is most beneficial to release and reassign
the corresponding call to the channel just completing the call.
However, differing from cs, cc & cra is an intracell-type
transition, the condition of whose sole input place IU will not
change until we release it. Therefore, channel reassignment will
be simpler than channel-selection.
Channel release is the reverse procedure of channel-
selection. Therefore, we prefer to release the channel that
makes more unavailable channels available as the first criteria.
Consequently, our first criteria for the channel-reassignment
scheme is to select the channel whose condition numbers in the
first-tier cells have the largest number of −1 s.
In the case where there is more than one channel selected
based on the first criteria, we will further compare them using
the second criteria, which is also a reverse procedure of the
second criteria of the channel-selection scheme. That is to say,
we will select the channel with the smallest indicator of regional
channel utilization to release, because the smaller indicator
implies that there are fewer cells in the second tier using this
channel, and we prefer to keep those with a larger indicator to
reach a more compact pattern.
Hence, our channel-reassignment scheme can be stated as
follows.
1) Select the in-use channel, including the channel just
completing the call, whose condition numbers in the first-
tier cells have the largest number of −1 s. If the selected
channel is the channel just completing the call, then re-
lease the channel; otherwise, release the selected channel,
and reassign the corresponding call to the channel that has
just completed the call.
2) In the case where there is more than one channel selected
from 1), we will choose the channel with the smallest
indicator of regional channel utilization to release and
reassign the call as in 1) if necessary.
3) If there is more than one channel resulting from 2), then
we will select the channel whose identifier is farther from
the channels in use and reassign the call as in 1), if
necessary.
Note that 3) is a reverse procedure of the third criteria in
the channel-selection scheme. Furthermore, under the proposed
channel-reassignment scheme, a limiting reassignment process
reported in [3], [4], and [10] is automatically carried out,
because we use the same channels as before.
III. PROPERTIES OF THE PROPOSED PN
As indicated in Section I, the proposed PN-based automated
DDCA has to deal with three challenges, which can be summa-
rized as follows: 1) satisfying the hard constraints; 2) adequate
channel-selection to assign for a new call; and 3) channel
reassignment. The latter two challenges had been dealt with
by the channel-selection and channel reassignment schemes
presented in Sections II-E and F, respectively. In this section,
we will show that the proposed PN satisfies the hard constraint.
In addition, we have to justify the adequacy of the proposed PN
in the following respects: 1) The PN is deadlock free; 2) the
resources (i.e., channels) are neither lost nor gained; and 3) the
system modeled by the PN is stable, i.e., the number of tokens
in any one place does not grow infinitely. To accomplish these
tasks, we need a reachability tree for the proposed PN.
A. Reachability Tree
The reachability tree of a PN is a tree that uses states as
nodes and transitions as arcs [24]. The construction of this tree
starts from the root node, which is represented by the initial
state, and the arcs outgoing from the root node are marked by
the corresponding enabled transitions. The arc will lead to a
new node (state) resulting from the firing of the corresponding
transition (arc). The preceding procedures repeat until duplicate
nodes, which are identical to existing nodes in the tree, or
terminal nodes, which have no any enabled transitions, are met.
In the reachability tree, dashed lines will be used to indicate the
duplicate nodes.
Due to the similar process of assigning a new call for all
channels in all cells, we will present the reachability tree of
the proposed PN for just one channel in one cell. For the sake
of simplicity in representing the node (state) in the reachability
tree, we define the state variable vector in the reachability tree
as [Q, B]× [IU, AV, U1N, U2N, U3N, S], in which the first part
corresponds to the conditions of a new call, and the second part
corresponds to the real channel conditions. In the sequel, we
will denote the second part as the channel state. Since the places
S¯i, Si Ai, Ei, CIUi, and CRLi, i = 1, . . . , 6 are auxiliary
channel conditions, which help enable transitions, we omit rep-
resenting them in the state variables; however, we will put the
effect of their conditions in the corresponding arc (transition).
We let the initial state be [0 0] × [0 1 0 0 0 0], and we
consider the situation that the new call is accepted; a channel is
selected for assignment. Then, the reachability tree of a selected
channel in a cell can be shown in Fig. 7.
Illustration of the Reachability Tree: Based on the proposed
PN in Fig. 4 and starting from the initial state [00] × [010000],
supposing that transition nca occurs and that the call is ac-
cepted, the state moves to [10] × [010000]. At this state, sup-
pose RL = 0, transition cb is enabled and fires; then, the state
moves to [01] × [010000]. Subsequently, transition uncc is
enabled and fires, and then, the state moves to [00] × [010000],
which is a duplication of the initial state. Supposing that RL >
0 at node [10] × [010000], and if all S¯i, i = 1, . . . , 6 have the
same marked token denoted by
6∧
i=1
S¯i = 1, then transition cs
is enabled, as shown in the corresponding arc, and we assume
that the considered channel is selected. Then, the state moves to
[00] × [000001]. Since we have omitted the representation of
S¯i, Si Ai, and Ei, i = 1, . . . , 6 in the state variables, as previ-
ously indicated, we use two arcs (or two sets of concatenated
events) to represent the handshaking mechanism. The arc on
the left, which is marked by
6∧
i=1
cyai and ac, represents the case
that S and all S¯i, i = 1, . . . , 6 having the same marked tokens
enable all transitions cyai, i = 1, . . . , 6, which fire the same
marked tokens to all places Ai, i = 1, . . . , 6, and then enables
ac to assign the channel. Subsequently, the state will move to
[00] × [100000]. The arc on the right, which is marked by
Authorized licensed use limited to: Chang Gung University. Downloaded on October 14, 2009 at 04:02 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
LIN AND CHAN: PN-BASED AUTOMATED DISTRIBUTED DYNAMIC CHANNEL ASSIGNMENT FOR CELLULAR NETWORK 4549
an important property for PN. The places related to the real
channels are places IU, AV, U1N, U2N, U3N, and S. Then, by
the definition of conservation [24], we say that the proposed
PN is conservative with respect to any channel, for example, c,
if c(IU) + c(AV) + c(U1N) + c(U2N) + c(U3N) + c(S) = 1,
where c(P ) denotes the number of considered marked tokens
associated with channel c in place P .
Proposition 2: The proposed PN is conservative with respect
to any channel.
Proof: From the reachability tree shown in Fig. 7, we can
observe that one and only one marked token corresponding
to any specific channel, for example, c, can appear in one
and only one of the places AV, IU, U1N, U2N, U3N, and
S for all the states in the reachability tree. This implies that
c(IU) + c(AV) + c(U1N) + c(U2N) + c(U3N) + c(S) = 1.
Then, based on the definition of conservation, we complete the
proof. 
D. Satisfying the Hard Constraint
The hard constraint of DDCA is any two cells within the
channel reuse distance cannot use the same channel. This
constraint can be interpreted here as that no two neighboring
cells can simultaneously have the channel state [IU, AV, U1N,
U2N, U3N, S] for the same channel to be [1 0 0 0 0 0].
Proposition 3: For the same channel, no two neighboring
cells in the proposed PN can simultaneously have the channel
state [1 0 0 0 0 0].
Proof: Without loss of generality, we can assume that
each channel of a cell starts from the initial state [0 0] × [0
1 0 0 0 0]. To prove the proposition, we should show that when
the state of the cell moves to [0 0] × [1 0 0 0 0 0], the channel
state of this channel in any of the six first-tier cells cannot be
[1 0 0 0 0 0]. Starting from the state [0 0] × [0 1 0 0 0 0]
supposing that a new call arrives and that the call is accepted,
then the state will move to [1 0] × [010000]. Subsequently, the
considered channel can be selected for assignment only when
[S¯i Si] = [1 0] for all i = 1, . . . , 6. Suppose that the transition
cs is enabled at time t and that this channel is selected (i.e.,
cs fires) at time t + Δtcs, which implies [S¯i Si] is still [1 0]
at t + Δtcs for all i = 1, . . . , 6. We should recall that Δtcs
represents the execution time of the channel-selection scheme.
Then, the state of the considered cell becomes [0 0] × [0 0 0 0
0 1]. However, [S¯i Si] = [1 0] at time t + Δtcs represents the
condition of this channel in first-tier cell i at time t + Δtcs −
Δtd, where Δtd represents the message propagation delay,
as previously defined. During (t + Δtcs −Δtd, t + Δtcs), the
condition of this channel in all the first-tier cells may have two
possibilities: One is still at S¯i, and the other becomes S. If the
former occurs to all the first-tier cells, i.e., the token remains
at S¯i for i = 1, . . . , 6 during (t + Δtcs, t + Δtcs + Δtd), then
based on the proposed PN and Remark 4, the event
6∧
i=1
cyai
occurs at time t + Δtcs + Δtd and is immediately followed
by the event ac. Subsequently, the state of the considered cell
becomes [0 0] × [1 0 0 0 0 0]; we denote this case as case
A. If the latter occurs to any of the first-tier cells, i.e., the
token moves from S¯i to Si during (t + Δtcs, t + Δtcs + Δtd)
Fig. 8. Second subcase of case A.
for the corresponding i, then this implies that at least one of
the first-tier cells earlier selected this channel. Subsequently,
at least one of the transition chsi, i = 1, . . . , 6 occurs at time
t + Δtcs + Δtd and is immediately followed by the occurrence
of one of the transitions crsj , j = 1, . . . , 26 − 1. Consequently,
the state of the considered cell becomes [1 0] × [0 1 0 0 0 0] at
time t + Δtcs + Δtd; we denote this case as case B.
In case A, the state is [0 0]× [1 0 0 0 0 0] at t + Δtcs + Δtd,
and a message is sent to all first-tier cells to indicate that this
channel is in use, which makes a marked token associated with
this channel appear in CIUi, i = 1, . . . , 6 at time t + Δtcs +
2Δtd due to message propagation delay. Now, we consider two
subcases of case A. The first subcase is that the condition of
this channel in all first-tier cells still remains at S¯ during (t +
Δtcs, t + Δtcs + 2Δtd). Then, one of the transitions frtij ,
j = 1, 2, 3, for all i = 1, . . . , 6 fires at time t + Δtcs + 2Δtd.
Since S¯ represents one of AV, U1N, and U2N, therefore, after
firing frti1, or frti2, or frti3, the condition of this channel
in first-tier cells will move from [0 1 0 0 0 0] to [0 0 1 0
0 0], or from [0 0 1 0 0 0] to [0 0 0 1 0 0], or from [0 0
0 1 0 0] to [0 0 0 0 1 0], respectively. In this subcase, the
conclusion of this proposition is proved. The second subcase
of case A is that the condition of this channel in any one of
the first-tier cells, for example, i, moves from S¯ to S during
(t + Δtcs, t + Δtcs + Δtd), as indicated at point ©2 in Fig. 8.
Note that this channel had been selected by the considered
cell at t + Δtcs, as previously described and indicated by the
point ©1 in Fig. 8. This implies that the considered cell se-
lects this channel earlier, the message of which is received
by first-tier cell i at time t + Δtcs + Δtd, as indicated by the
point ©3 in Fig. 8. Then, based on previous analysis for case B,
if the state of this channel in first-tier cell i is S, i.e., [0 0 0 0 0
1], then it will move to [0 1 0 0 0 0], i.e., one of the conditions
represented by S¯, before t + Δtcs + 2Δtd, as indicated by
point ©4 in Fig. 8, because the time duration for chsi is Δtd
and crsj ∈ Tai. Then, in the second subcase, frti1 is enabled
and immediately fires at t + Δtcs + 2Δtd, and the state of this
channel in the corresponding first-tier cell i will move from [0 1
0 0 0 0] to [0 0 1 0 0 0]. Thus, in the second subcase of case A,
the conclusion of this proposition is also proved.
In case B, the state of the considered cell is [1 0] × [0 1
0 0 0 0] at time t + Δtcs + Δtd; then, 1) it has no chance to
simultaneously have the channel state [1 0 0 0 0 0] with the
neighboring cells, and 2) it returns to a state being visited and
Authorized licensed use limited to: Chang Gung University. Downloaded on October 14, 2009 at 04:02 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
LIN AND CHAN: PN-BASED AUTOMATED DISTRIBUTED DYNAMIC CHANNEL ASSIGNMENT FOR CELLULAR NETWORK 4551
Fig. 11. Blocking probability of all methods under various traffic loads for
traffic pattern #1.
interference only, whereas other sources of interference, such
as adjacent channel interference, are ignored. We assume that
the call arrivals follow a Poisson process with the probability
distribution for interarrival time as e−λt, where λ represents the
mean call-arrival rate. We also assume that the call-holding time
follows an exponential probability distribution e−t/μ, where μ
represents the mean call-holding time, and we set μ = 180 s
throughout our simulations. To adapt our simulations to realistic
situations, we consider two nonuniform traffic patterns denoted
by traffic patterns #1 and #2, which are employed in [3], [4], and
[10], as shown in Figs. 9 and 10, respectively. The numbers with
unit calls/hour shown in each cell in Figs. 9 and 10 denote the
initial mean call-arrival rate. We set the call request response
time to be 1 s. The performance of our PN-based automated
DDCA method, as well as the other comparing methods, is
evaluated by the blocking probability of the incoming calls
for the whole system. To test the performance of our method,
as well as the other comparing methods, under various traffic
loads, we have increased the traffic load by a percent factor
ranging from 180 to 380. A percentage increase of traffic load
implies that the initial call-arrival rates for all cells are increased
by that percentage.
For each traffic pattern and each traffic load, we have sim-
ulated our PN-based DDCA method for the simulation length
of 20 h, and the resulting blocking probabilities are shown in
Figs. 11 and 12 (marked by ). In the meantime, we also record
the corresponding average number of total available channels
left in the system counted at every 100 calls in Figs. 13 and 14
(also marked by ).
Verification of Spontaneous Handshaking Mechanism: For
each cell, we set a flag, the initial value of which is set
to be 0. According to the dynamics of the spontaneous
handshaking, channel assignment, and channel reselection
presented in Section II-D, we may perform the following
during the simulations to verify the spontaneous handshaking
mechanism.
For each cell, if a channel is selected (the corresponding
marked token is in place S) and then assigned for a new call (the
Fig. 12. Blocking probability of all methods under various traffic loads for
traffic pattern #2.
Fig. 13. Average number of total available channels counted at every 100 calls
under various traffic loads for traffic pattern #1.
Fig. 14. Average number of total available channels counted at every 100 calls
under various traffic loads for traffic pattern #2.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Chang Gung University. Downloaded on October 14, 2009 at 04:02 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
LIN AND CHAN: PN-BASED AUTOMATED DISTRIBUTED DYNAMIC CHANNEL ASSIGNMENT FOR CELLULAR NETWORK 4553
[16] F. James-Romero, D. Munoz-Rodriguez, C. Molina, and H. Tawfik,
“Modeling resource management in cellular systems using Petri
nets,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 46, no. 2, pp. 298–312,
May 1997.
[17] R. Mathar and J. Matlfeldt, “Channel assignment in cellular radio
networks,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 42, no. 4, pp. 647–656,
Nov. 1993.
[18] Y. Zhany, S. K. Das, and X. Jia, “D-CAT: An efficient algorithm for
distributed channel allocation in cellular mobile networks,” Mobile Netw.
Appl., vol. 9, no. 4, pp. 279–288, Aug. 2004.
[19] H. G. Sandalidis, P. P. Stavroulakis, and J. Rodrignez-Tellez, “Implemen-
tation of genetic algorithm to a channel assignment problem in cellular
communications,” in Proc. 6th Int. Conf. Advances COMCON, Jun. 1997,
pp. 453–460.
[20] M. Choy and A. K. Singh, “Efficient distributed algorithms for dynamic
channel assignment,” in Proc. 7th IEEE Int. Symp. Pers., Indoor, Mobile
Radio Commun., 1996, pp. 208–212.
[21] A. Boukerche, S. Hong, and T. Jacob, “A distributed algorithm for dy-
namic channel allocation,” Mobile Netw. Appl., vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 115–126,
Apr. 2002.
[22] A. Boukerche, S. Hong, and T. Jacob, “A performance study of a distrib-
uted algorithm for dynamic channel allocation,” in Proc. ACM MSWiM,
Aug. 2000, pp. 36–43.
[23] J. Yang, Q. Jiang, D. Manivannan, and M. Singhal, “A fault-tolerant
distributed channel allocation scheme for cellular network,” IEEE Trans.
Comput., vol. 54, no. 5, pp. 616–629, May 2005.
[24] C. G. Cassandras and S. Lafortune, Introduction to Discrete Event Sys-
tems. Boston, MA: Kluwer, 1999.
[25] W. C. Jakes, Jr., Microwave Mobile Communication. New York: Wiley,
1974.
Shin-Yeu Lin was born in Taiwan. He received the
B.S. degree in electronics engineering from National
Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu, Taiwan, in 1975,
the M.S. degree in electrical engineering from the
University of Texas at El Paso in 1979, and the D.Sc.
degree in systems science and mathematics from
Washington University, St. Louis, MO, in 1983.
From 1984 to 1985, he was a Research Asso-
ciate and then a Visiting Assistant Professor with
Washington University. From 1985 to 1986, he was a
Senior Member of technical staff with GTE Labora-
tory. From 1987 to July 2009, he was an Associate Professor and then a Profes-
sor with the Department of Electrical and Control Engineering, National Chiao
Tung University. Since August 2009, he has been a Professor with the Depart-
ment of Electrical Engineering, Chang Gung University, Tao-Yuan, Taiwan. His
major research interests include wireless communication, ordinal optimization
theory and applications, optimal power flow, and distributed computations.
Ting-Yu Chan was born in Taiwan. He received
the B.S. degree in mechanical engineering and M.S.
degree in electrical and control engineering from the
National Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu, Taiwan, in
2006 and 2008, respectively.
He is currently an Engineer with Elan Microelec-
tronics Corporation, Hsinchu. He is also with the
Department of Electrical and Control Engineering,
National Chiao Tung University. His major research
interests include optimization theory and applica-
tions, wireless communication, and integrated circuit
design.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Chang Gung University. Downloaded on October 14, 2009 at 04:02 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
                ICSSE 2011                
II. AVAILABLE CHANNEL BASED DDCA METHOD 
A. Preliminaries 
We let 1 2{ , , , }NC c c c= "  denote the set of channels in 
the cellular network, where the index i  denotes the identifier 
of the i th channel. We assume the considered cellular 
network is a seven-cell cluster system, such that the channel 
reuse distance is three cells. For example, in a portion of the 
cellular network shown in Fig. 1, the cells within the channel 
reuse distance for cell 1 as indicated by the cells within the 
bold boundary are cells 2-19, where cells 2-7 are the first-tier 
cells, and cells 8-19 are the second-tier cells. Therefore, the 
third-tier cells 20-37 and the cells beyond can use the channels 
used in cell 1. The CCC implies that cells 2-19 cannot use the 
same channel that is currently used in cell 1. Since the first-tier 
cells, cells 2-7, are the adjacent cells of cell 1, ACC implies 
that they cannot use the adjacent channels of the channel that 
is currently used in cell 1. For the sake of simplicity, we 
assume the adjacent channels of channel ic  are the two 
channels, 1ic −  and 1ic + . The CSC implies that the channels 
used in the same cell should have a specified distance, say two 
channels. Thus, if ic  is used in cell 1, 2ic − , 1ic − , 1ic +  and 
2ic +  cannot be used in cell 1. 
 
 
Figure 1.  A portion of the cellular network. 
B. Operations of DDCA 
The operations of the proposed DDCA method in a cell are 
as follows. If a new call arrives in a cell, the channel selection 
scheme will be executed immediately. Then, if there is an 
available channel in the cell, the call will be accepted and 
assigned with the best available channel determined by the 
channel selection scheme; otherwise, the call is blocked. If a 
call completes in the cell, the channel reassignment scheme 
will be carried out right away. Then, if there are other in use 
channels in the same cell, a best in use channel determined by 
the channel reassignment scheme will be released. The 
channel selection criteria and channel reassignment criteria are 
developed to reduce the blocking probability and will be 
presented after the introduction of channel states, channel-state 
table and evolution of channel states.  
C. Channel States and Channel-State Table 
We define {1, 0, -1, …,-n} as the set of states of a channel. 1 
denotes the channel is in use. 0 denotes the channel is 
available for assignment. –1 (or –n) denotes the channel is 
affected by one (or n) in-use channel(s), which means if the 
considered channel is assigned to the new call, then one (or n) 
currently in use channel(s) that can be in any cells will be 
interfered. 
TABLE I.  THE CHANNEL STATE TABLE OF A CELL 
  Channel
Cell  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
1 -1 -3 1 -2 -2 1 -2 -2 -1 0 0 -2 
2 -1 -2 -2 -1 -1 -1 -1 -2 0 0 -1 -1 
3 0 -2 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 0 0 -1 -1 
4 0 -2 -1 -1 -1 -1 -2 -1 -1 0 0 -2 
5 -1 -2 -2 -1 -1 -2 -2 1 -1 -1 -1 -1 
6 -1 -3 -2 -1 -1 -1 -2 -1 -1 0 -1 -1 
7 -1 -3 -2 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 0 0 0 -2 
8 -1 1 -2 -1 0 -1 0 0 0 0 0 -1 
9 -1 -1 -2 0 0 -1 0 0 0 0 -1 -1 
10 0 -1 -1 0 0 -1 0 -1 0 -1 -1 1 
11 0 0 -1 0 0 -1 0 0 0 0 -1 -1 
12 0 0 -1 0 0 -1 0 -1 0 0 0 -1 
13 0 0 -1 0 0 -1 0 -1 0 0 0 0 
14 0 -1 -1 0 0 -1 -1 -1 -1 0 0 -1 
15 -1 -1 -2 -1 0 -1 -1 -1 -1 0 -1 -1 
16 -1 1 -2 -1 0 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 -1 1 
17 -1 -1 -3 0 0 -1 0 -1 0 0 -1 -1 
18 0 -2 -1 0 0 -1 0 -1 0 0 0 -1 
19 -1 -1 -2 0 0 -1 0 0 0 0 0 0 
 
For any cell, the interferences with other cells will occur 
only within its channel reuse distance. Therefore, we let each 
cell be equipped with a channel-state table, which consists of 
the most updated state of all channels of the cells within the 
channel reuse distance. An example of the channel-state table 
is shown in Table I, in which we let cell 1 to be the considered 
cell, and the indices of all cells in Table I are corresponding to 
those presented in Fig. 1. In this table, we assume N=12, and 
the channel states of all cells are corresponding to a time 
instance. The states in this table obey the definition of channel 
states and satisfy the three constraints, CCC, ACC and CSC. 
Some illustrations regarding how states reflect the real 
conditions of the system are described below. In Table I, the 
states of both channels 3 and 6 in cell 1 are 1, which indicates 
that these two channels are in use. Then, based on the CSC 
and the definition of channel state, the values of the states of 
both channels 4 and 5 in cell 1 should be smaller than or equal 
to -2 depending on whether they are affected by any other cells 
or not. In the current example, the states of both channels 4 
and 5 in cell 1 are -2, which mean these two channels are 
affected by channels 3 and 6 in the same cell only. Similarly, 
the states of channels 1, 2, 7 and 8 in cell 1 should be smaller 
than or equal to -1. Since channel 2 is also used in cells 8 and 
16 as presented in Table I, the state of channel 2 in cell 1 is -3 
as shown in Table I due to both CSC and ACC. Similar 
arguments apply to channels 7 and 8 in cell 1; the states of 
these two channels are -2 instead of -1 due to both CSC and 
ACC, because channel 8 is used in cell 5 as presented in Table 
589
                ICSSE 2011                
fact, the channel reassignment follows the logic that is opposite 
to the channel selection. 
III. TEST RESULTS AND COMPARISONS 
We employ a 7 × 7 parallelogram-shaped cellular network 
shown in Fig. 2 as our test system. We assume the total 
number of channels in the system is 70, and each channel can 
serve only one call. The three types of interferences, CCC, 
ACC and CSC are all taken into account. We assume that the 
call arrivals follow a Poisson process with the probability 
distribution for inter-arrival time as te λ− , where λ  represents 
the mean call arrival rate. We also assume the call holding 
time follows an exponential probability distribution 
t
e μ
−
, 
where μ  represents the mean call holding time, and we set 
μ =180 seconds throughout our simulations. 
 To adapt our simulations to realistic situations, we consider 
two non-uniform traffic patterns denoted by traffic patterns #1 
and #2. The numbers outside (inside) the parenthesis with unit 
calls/hour shown in each cell in Fig. 2 denote the initial mean 
call arrival rate of traffic pattern #1 (#2). We employ the 
blocking probability of the incoming calls for the whole system 
as our performance index. To test the performance of the 
proposed DDCA method as well as the comparing methods 
under various traffic loads, we increase the traffic load by a 
percent factor ranging from 160 to 380. A percentage increase 
of traffic load implies that the initial call arrival rates for all 
cells are increased by that percentage. 
For each traffic pattern and each traffic load, we have 
simulated the proposed DDCA method for the simulation 
length of 20 hours, and the resulting blocking probabilities are 
presented in Figs. 3 and 4 (marked by ‘*’). In the meantime, 
we also record the corresponding average number of total 
available channels left in the system counted at every 100 calls 
in Figs. 5 and 6 (also marked by ‘*’). 
60
(100)
20
(80)
140
(200)
200
(60)
60
(100)
100
(80)
40
(160) 120
(100)
180
(160)
40
(80)
160
(60)
80
(60)
80
(60)
160
(100)
40
(80)
80
(120)
60
(80)
100
(140)140
(60)60
(100)80
(80)
120
(120)60
(140)100
(140)
40
(180)
100
(120)
40
(80)
80
(40)
160
(140)
120
(120)
120
(20)
160
(40)
100
(80)
60
(120)
60
(160)
20
(140)100
(160)
60
(160)
140
(120)
160
(80)
100
(180)
60
(20)
120
(120)
80
(120)
120
(140)
20
(100)
40
(160)
100
(60)
60
(120)
 
Figure 2.  A 7x7 cellular network with traffic patterns #1 and #2. 
 
Figure 3.  Blocking probability of all methods under various traffic loads for 
traffic pattern #1. 
 
Figure 4.  Blocking probability of all methods under various traffic loads for 
traffic pattern #2. 
For comparisons, we use the two adaptive algorithms, 
GALC and GASC, based centralized DCA method proposed 
by Lima et al., which outperforms the DCA-Q and FCA-
BDCL as indicated in [19]. For each traffic pattern and each 
traffic load, we have simulated the GALC and GASC based 
DCA methods for the simulation length of 20 hours, and the 
blocking probabilities and the average number of total 
available channels left in the system counted at every 100 calls 
obtained by them are also shown in Figs. 3-6 marked by ‘{’ 
and ‘’, respectively. 
Figs. 5 and 6 show that the proposed DDCA method 
possesses more available channels than GALC and GASC 
based centralized DCA method; this provides an evidence that 
the proposed DDCA method achieves better blocking 
probabilities as presented in Figs. 3 and 4.  
Notably, all simulations are executed in a Pentium-IV 20-
GHz 1.00GB RAM PC. The CPU time consumed by the 
proposed DDCA method for each channel selection or channel 
591
 1
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：100 年 9 月 15 日 
一、參加會議經過 
由於會議的議程自 12 月 7 日始至 12 月 10 日止，所以我於星期一下午(12/6)搭了中華航空公司的飛機
至新加坡，抵達大會場地所在的飯店並 check in 後，已是晚上十點左右。 
    翌日，大會安排的是 social hours 及 reception，主要的用意是先讓與會者都先彼此熟悉並建立
關係，以便往後 3天的學術研討及交流可更加的順暢及熱烈。 
    12月8日的keynote speech是由美國的Microsoft Research 的Principal Researcher Professor 
Zhengyou Zhang 主講,其講題為＂Audio-Visual Joint Processing for Active Object Detection＂，
Active object detection 對動態環境中人的互動以及機器人的導航都是非常重要的，Prof.Zhang 提
出許多以 audio-visual joint processing 來做 action object detection 的應用。由於此公在開發
微軟的新電玩 kinect 上著力甚深，因此他所提出的應用層面相當地引發聆聽者熱烈的發問與回響。 
計畫編號 NSC98－2221－E－182－065－MY2 
計畫名稱 蜂巢式網路的分散式動態頻道配置與來電控制(2/2) 
出國人員
姓名 林心宇 
服務機構
及職稱 長庚大學電機系教授 
會議時間 99年 12月 7日至 99 年 12 月 10 日 會議地點 新加坡 
會議名稱 
(中文)第十一屆控制、自動化、機器人及視覺國際會議 
(英文)The 11th International Conference on Control, Automation, 
Robotics and Vision 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 
(英文) Multi-1D Block Matching Algorithm Based Motion Estimation 
Processor Using Mixed-Signal Approach 
附件四 
 3
Prof. Brian C.Lovell，義大利 Sassavi 大學的 Prof.Massimo Tistarelli 以及美國微軟公司的
Prof.Zhengyou Zhang。他們四個都提出了未來在 Imaging 及 Visions 的發展方向，而最有意思的是
Prof. Zhang 所介紹的微軟 kinect 影像處理系統。Kinect 較任天堂的 Wii 高明之處在於身體是 Free
的，不需藉助於手握把的感應器，於是身體所有動作的感測便皆來自於影像處理。Prof. Zhang 的演
講內容就在描述他們是如何辦到這件事的，它的應用價值已不待言，而它所涵蓋的學術研究的廣度與
深度實在相當令人著迷。  
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
    無 
四、建議 
12/9 的晚上是大會例行的晚宴，就在 conference hotel 內舉行，大會安排了精彩的表演，包括
了印度女郎的肚皮舞，馬來人的民俗舞蹈以及華人的川劇變臉，它充分反應了新加坡多元民族的特色，
晚宴的菜色也不錯，我常思考假如這是因為註冊費昂貴才能辦到的享受而達賓主盡歡的效果，那麼在
台灣舉辦的 conference 是不是也應該仿效，它比起個人式的國際交流合作在擴充國際知名度上有效多
了。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
   一個儲存會議所有論文的光碟。 
六、其他 
  無 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                           
 
 5
他概略地說明為何這些問題是屬於系統工程的研究範圍，而將這些問題 formulate 成一個系統工程
的問題並尋求解決方法將是從事系統工程研究的人之使命。 
  李祖添教授，前台北科技大學校長，目前是教育部的講座教授，他曾經主持過國科會智慧型
運輸系統之卓越計畫，他在演講中說明了目前台灣在智慧型運輸系統研究的成果，智慧型運輸系統
集控制、電腦、電力及通訊等技術於一體，所以它在系統工程中被歸數為複雜(complex)系統。此研
究成果包含了通訊平台、安全駕駛助理系統及交通狀況動態模擬系統，可以說是一個具有實驗室規
格的智慧型運輸系統。 
     Prof. James Tien 是美國邁阿密大學的工學院院長，他的學術成就可從它是美國國家工程學院
(National Academy of Engineering)的 member 得知。他的演講主要著重於 manufacturing system 的
supply 跟 demand 的問題。manufacturing system 由古老的完全客製化(customized)演進到 make to 
stock (例如 PC 代工)，及 make to order(例如晶圓代工)等把 just in time 的精神發揮到極致。在過去
的製造系統的生產規劃中，我們是假設需求是已知的而生產是可彈性調整的，或是假設生產是已知
的而需求是可彈性調整的。但未來的製造系統的生產規劃為了因應多變的需求及生產條件，所面對
的問題將是需求與生產是同時都可彈性調整的。這個問題的困難度在於不確定性(uncertainty)而這也
是對從事系統工程的研究者的挑戰。由於我的研究領域中有一部分是在解決 Stochastic Simulation 
Optimization 的問題，因此我對 Prof. Tien 的演講深感興趣。值得一提的是 Prof. Tien 的演講的引言
人是本校的李明義所長。 
  Prof. Mo Jamshidi 是美國德州大學安東尼分校的 Lutcher Brown 講座教授並著有 large scale 
system 相關書籍，可說是 large scale system 研究領域的領航者。Prof. Jamshidi 指出由於網路的便利，
large scale system 將演進成為 System of Systems ，最顯著的例子便是正在發展的智慧電網(smart 
grid)，它將取代傳統的電力網路，而將 management、communication、control 以及 energy saving 等
重要議題透過智慧型電網中的電子元件，通訊技術及網路訊息傳輸一併解決。當然要把這個 System 
of Systems 運作得好，必須有相當好的相關 algorithms，而這些也就是從事系統工程研究者所擅長且
應努力的方向。Prof. Jamshidi 另外展示了他們的團隊在水底機器人群的研究影片來說明 System of 
Systems 的重要性。 
  除了 plenary talks 之外，會議在同時段分成三個 sessions 來進行 paper presentations，我除了要
present paper 外，並被 assigned 為 6/9 下午 4:30 至 6:00 Communication System session 的 chair。Session
進行時，我選擇性地在不同的 session 中挑選有興趣的 paper 來聆聽，並將其中較有意思的敘述如下： 
 7
    無 
四、建議 
    無 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
   一個儲存會議所有論文的光碟。 
六、其他 
   無 
 
  
 
98 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：林心宇 計畫編號：98-2221-E-182-065-MY2 
計畫名稱：蜂巢式網路的分散式動態頻道配置與來電控制 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 6 6 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 3 3 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
