用於無線醫療照護監控之高整合度CMOS雷達系
統－子計畫四：主動雷達系統之數位訊號處理
演算法與架構設計-人體偵測、定位與生理量測
(I) 
 
執行單位與系所：國立清華大學通訊工程所 
計畫主持人: 黃元豪 副教授 
參與計畫人員:謝其軒、沈義翔、邱于芳  
 
中文摘要： 
 
        本計畫研究與開發以脈衝雷達訊號處理平
台為基礎之人體呼吸特徵擷取電路與系統。傳
統的雷達呼吸偵測演算法得開發通常只有偵測
人體的呼吸頻率，然而脈衝雷達所接收到的訊
號還人有相當多資訊可以分析獲得。本計畫所
提出之呼吸特徵擷取演算法以Raised-Cosine 
Waveform模型來使用correllation的運算偵測獲得
更多的呼吸特徵，例如呼氣與吐氣速度、呼吸
振幅強度、吸氣維持比例等等。這些所萃取的
參數可以視為雷達呼吸訊號的壓縮參數，可以
用來降低長時間或遠端呼吸監控系統之資料
量。此計畫將提出的呼吸特徵擷取演算法實作
在擁有ARM處理器以及FPGA晶片可以共同運作
的平台上，且搭配UWB Radar的晶片[11]。此裝
置可以分析人體呼吸頻率從0.1Hz到0.5Hz之間多
個呼吸周期的波形。 
 
英文摘要： 
 
This project investigates a human respiratory 
feature extraction circuits and systems based on an 
ultra-wideband (UWB) impulse-radio radar signal 
processing platform. The conventional radar 
detection algorithms only extract the respiration 
rate for medical diagnosis. However, there is more 
information in the radar-detected respiratory signals 
which can be useful for medical diagnosis. Thus, 
this study proposes a modified raised cosine model 
and an iterative correlation algorithm to extract 
more respiratory features, such as inspiration and 
expiration speed, respiration intensity, and 
respiration holding ratio. These extracted features 
can be regarded as the compressed respiratory 
signals for the long-term remote medical 
monitoring system. The proposed respiratory 
feature extraction algorithm and architecture were 
designed and implemented on a radar signal 
processing platform with an ARM processor and an 
FPGA chip. The proposed circuit can detect Human 
respiratory signals from 0.1 to 0.5 Hz rate and 
analyze the respiratory features for each period of 
the respiratory signals. 
 
中文關鍵詞： 
人體偵測、呼吸特徵擷取、雷達系統、醫療照
護。 
 
英文關鍵詞： 
Human Detection、Respiratory Feature 
Extraction、Radar system、Medical Care。 
 
前言： 
 
超寬頻雷達(UWB Radar)具有極大頻寬的特
性，擁有較短的impulse能使得偵測的解析度極
高，我們得以此裝置偵測極微小的動作，例如
呼吸或心跳時人體皮膚表面的週期性運動。而
超寬頻雷達與無線傳輸系統結合後，可達成遠
距離照護醫學的用途。 
 
研究目的： 
 
        人體呼吸的過程中，呼氣和吸氣的過程中
隱含了許多資訊，它們會在呼吸的波形中表現
出來[9][10]。但是現有的文獻中，大多只提到關
於呼吸頻率的演算法。因此，在我們的研究
中，目標是找到呼吸的特徵，舉例來說，呼吸
的強度、呼氣速度、吸氣速度、以及呼吸氣維
持時間的比例。而我們以raised cosine的模型去
模擬呼吸狀態的波形以及迭代式演算法去萃取
模型的特徵參數，可以成功的找出隱含在呼吸
中的特徵資訊。這些資訊，能夠讓醫護人員對
於雷達所量測到的呼吸訊號增加判斷的依據。
另外，獲得這些模型的特徵參數後就能重建出
與原始量測訊號近乎相同的波形，所以當我們
需要無線遠端傳輸量測到的呼吸波形時，只需
要傳送數個特徵參數就能在另一端重建波形，
而不需送出所有的訊號，可減少大量的傳輸電
力和儲存空間。 
         
文獻探討： 
 
近年來，超寬頻雷達系統被當作許多遠距
離呼吸偵測裝置使用，因為在醫學上，呼吸是
人體生物特徵中最基本且重要的訊號，所以能
 
圖三. 特徵參數偵測演算法流程圖 
 
 
而a[n]、b[n]為兩項長度為N的離散訊號。此函
式之目的是找出量測的呼吸波形所對應到
MRCW模型之參數，在使用CZT演算法找出呼
吸的頻率後，我們可得到一個周期的呼吸樣
本，然後與不同參數的MRCWs做correlation，當
COR的數值越大時，所對應到的參數數值即為
所求，依序可得到 ，最後將這些
參數所形成的MRCW乘上不同的振幅，與原始
波形的差平方最小的值即為呼吸強度A，演算法
流程如圖三；MRCW需要以correlation的方式找
尋出的特徵參數有四種，我們採取依序計算的
方法，例如一開始在計算 的數值時，另三個參
數 會給定不變的初始值， 會從0依序
增加到N-1產生N種不同的MRCWs與原始呼吸波
形做correlation，尋找N個COR中最大的峰值，
在找到對應的 後，即可固定 ，接著
開始找X，以此類推，當找到四個不同參數的值
時，回頭從第一個參數 開始找起，直到同一個
參數兩次迭代所找到值近乎相同，即可停止迭
代。詳細的演算法過程如Algorithm1，其中為了 
 
 
                                    (a) 
 
 
             (b)                                  (c) 
 
圖四.(a)超寬頻雷達呼吸偵測系統架構、(b)雷達前端晶片
照與(c)ARM+FPGA系統照片圖。 
0 t (sec)
Expiration Holding
Inspiration
2 4 6
-1
0
1
0.5
-0.5
 
圖五.呼吸量測波形示意圖 
 
簡化敘述， 代表MRCW( )當特徵
參數 的數值為 時的值， 是輸入訊號的取樣
時間。 
 
二、硬體設計與架構 
 
A. UWB雷達呼吸偵測系統架構 
  圖四為超寬頻雷達呼吸偵測系統的架構，
包含內部演算法的方塊圖。在最前端由超寬頻
雷達在100ns的固定時間送出一段突波，然後在
接收端在相同的頻率下對反射回來的突波做取
樣。因UWB雷達高解析度特性，可以偵測人體
呼吸的微小變化。雷達收到呼吸訊號如圖五，
測波形的差平方與振幅平方比。可看出 CZT 所
偵測到的頻率非常準確，不像 FFT 因為訊號取
的週期不同而改變甚大。原因就像前面所提到
的，CZT 因為對於已知固定頻段 (0.1Hz 到
0.5Hz)，解析度可以達到比 FFT還高的程度，所
以能提供我們正確頻率以繼續進行後續演算
法。 
 
B. 對於實際呼吸波形的實驗結果 
        超寬頻雷達系統分別對於兩位健康的志願
者量測15秒呼吸的訊號，使用在ARM處理器及
FPGA驗證平台執行演算法後，獲得MRCW參數
的數值，在電腦重建出MRCW，圖十二是量測
波形(虛線)及MRCW(實線)的比較波形。由圖中
我們可看出MRCW幾乎可以表現出量測波形的
狀態。因此我們能夠以特徵參數的數值來代表
一個週期的波形，這可以大量減少傳送的數
據，在無線傳輸電力有限的狀態下，拉長整個
系統的待機時間。 
 
 
 
圖十二. 虛線是兩位受測者的呼吸波形，實線為
計算出的特徵參數所重建出的波形 
 
結論： 
 
         我們提出的 Modified Raised Cosine Wave-
form(MRCW)能近似超寬頻雷達所量測到的呼吸
波形，且其中的參數也能表示呼吸波型中所隱
含的資訊，像是呼吸強度、頻率、吸呼氣速度
以及呼吸靜止時間維持的比例。CZT 演算法能
夠較準確的量測到呼吸的頻率，另外我們所提
出迭代式呼吸特徵偵測演算法能計算出 MRCW
參數的數值。把此演算法實做在軟硬體合作的
驗證平台上再結合超寬頻雷達的晶片，能夠對
量測到的呼吸訊號做特徵的解析。此研究可提
供當無線傳輸呼吸波形時，僅僅傳送特徵的參
數而不是整個週期的呼吸訊號，就能在接收端
重建波形，可大量減少傳輸電力損耗以及資料
儲存空間。 
 
參考文獻 
 
[1] G. S. Chung, B. H. Choi, K. K. Kim, Y. G. Lim, J. 
W. Choi, D.-U. Jeong, and K. S. Park, “REM sleep 
Classification with respiration rates,” in Conf. Rec. 6th 
Int. Special Topic Conf. Inf. Tech. Applicat. Biomedicine, 
Nov. 2007, pp.194–197. 
[2] S. I. Ivashov, V. V. Razevig, A. P. Sheyko, and I. A. 
Vasilyev, “Detection of human breathing and heartbeat 
by remote radar,” in Proc. Progress Symp. 
Electromagnetics Research, Pisa, Italy, Mar. 2004. 
[3] Y.-S. Zhou, L. Kong, G.-L. Cui, and J.-Y. 
Yang, ”Remote sensing of human body by stepped-
frequency continuous-wave,” in Conf. Rec. 3rd Int. Conf. 
Bioinformatics Biomedical Eng., Jun. 2009, pp.1–4. 
[4] A. Lazaro, D. Girbau, and R. Villarino, “Analysis of 
vital signs monitoring using an IR-UWB radar,” in Proc. 
Progress Symp. Electromagnetics Research, Vol. 100, 
2010. 
[5]M. Y. W. Chia, S. W. Leong, C. K. Sim, and K. M. 
Chan, “Through wall UWB radar operating within FCCs 
mask for sensing heart beat and breathing rate,” in Proc. 
Eur. Radar Conf., Oct. 2005, pp. 267-270. 
[6]M. Baboli, S. A. Ghorashi, N. Saniei, and A. 
Ahmadian. “A new wavelet based algorithm for 
estimating respiratory motion rate using UWB radar,” in 
Proc. Int. Conf. Biomedical Pharmaceutical Eng., 
Singapore, pp. 1–3, Dec. 2009. 
[7] M. Leib, W. Menzel, B. Schleicher, and S. Hermann, 
“Vital signs monitoring with a UWB radar based on a 
correlation receiver,” in Conf. Rec. 4th Eur. Conf. 
Antennas Propagation, pp.1–5, Apr. 2010. 
[8] M. Baboli, A. Sharafi, A. Ahmadian, and M. S. 
Nambakhsh, “An accurate and robust algorithm for 
detection of heart and respiration rates using an impulse 
based UWB signal,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Biomedical 
 1 
 國科會計畫補助出席國際學術會議報告 
                                            報告繳交日期： 101 年 06 月 1 日 
計畫編號 
    
100-2221-E-007-0
46 
計畫名稱 
用於無線醫療照護監控之高整合度CMOS雷達系統－子計
畫四：主動雷達系統之數位訊號處理演算法與架構設計-
人體偵測、定位與生理量測(I) 
出差人 黃元豪 單位系所 
電 機 系 / 通
訊 所  
職稱 副教授 
起迄日期 2012.05.19~2012.05.23 出國地點 韓國首爾 
出國目的 出席參加 2011 IEEE Symposium on Circuits and Systems 
參加會議
名稱 
(中文)IEEE 2012 年電路與系統研討討會 
(英文) 2012 IEEE Symposium on Circuits and Systems 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)  適用於晶格化簡多輸入多輸出偵測之固定吞吐量 LLL 演算法 
(英文)  A Constant-Throughput LLL Algorithm with Deep Insertion for 
LR-aided MIMO Detection 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、 經過： 
今年的 2012 IEEE International Symposium (ISCAS 2012)於 5月 20日至 5月 23日在韓
國首爾舉行，本人於 5 月 19日從台灣出發前往韓國首爾準備，19日到達，20日至 23
日參加會議，於 5月 23 日回國。 
 
2012 IEEE ISCAS 開會內容： 
 
第一天(2012/May/20/Sunday) 
參加 Tutorial訓練課程 
Pm13:30~Pm16:50 
T06. Computer Algebra and Its Applications to Circuits, Signals, and Systems 
-------Prof. Zhiping Lin (Nanyang Technological University, Singapore) 
-------Prof. Li Xu (Akita Prefectural University, Japan) 
 
第二天(2012/May/21/Monday) 
 IEEE ISCAS 是 IEEE Circuits and Systems Society主要的國際性學術會議，參加的人數
也相當多有上千人參加。  
Am 08:30-09:30 Welcome session: 
因為本會議是 IEEE Circuits and Systems 最主要的國際學術會議，此整個會議的開幕儀
式就是在頒獎與介紹 SP Society相關會務為主。本屆會議的投稿數高達將近 3000 篇
論文，論文接受率約 45%。  
 
Am:09:30-10:30 Keynote Speech 
Smart Mobile Devices and Semiconductor Solution: Past, Present and Future 
Dr. Nam-Sung Woo, Present & General Manager, Samsung Eletronics. 
行動通訊的應用越來越普及，包括智慧手機與平板電腦所需要的高速運算電路需求越
來越高，其中技術上最重要的就是低耗能，高整合性的晶片元件，包括處理器、製程
 3 
Am:09:40-11:10  Lecture   Software Defined Radio and Cognitive Radio Systems 
Am: 11:30-13:00  Lecture   Circuits for Biomedical systems 
Am: 14:30-16:00  Lecture   DSP for Communications 
Am: 16:20-17:50  Lecture   MIMO Systems 
 
本人實驗室於 Lecture: DSP for communication 發表論文” A Constant-Throughput 
LLL Algorithm with Deep Insertion for LR-aided MIMO Detection” 
 
第四天(2012/May/23/Wednesday) 
 
Am:08:30-9:30 Keynote Speech 3:  
CMOS Devices for Smart Biomedical Purposes – The next big things? 
Prof. Roland Thewes, TU, Berlin 
這場關於生醫電子元件的發展，主要是以生醫電訊號的晶片元件的介紹。包括了
ECG/EEG 等感測電路與系統的發展趨勢做大致的介紹，特別針對生醫元件強調待機
時間長與可考靠度需求下，電路與系統設計上的挑戰與現有的解決方式，做詳細的現
有研究的介紹，並且提出未來生醫電子發展的方向。 
 
 
                     Keynote Speech 3 
 
本日參加的 Technical Session 如下： 
Am:09:40-11:10  Lecture: Wireless System and IC 
Am:11:30-13:00  Lecture:Wireless, Wearable and Implantable Technology I 
  
ICASSP 2011 參加心得： 
此次參加 ISCAS 2012主要是為了發表論文與參加 IEEE Circuits and Systems Society之
VLSI and NG TC meetings。 論文發表獲得不少意見與討論，TC meetings 也認識了不
少新朋友。這次算是收穫相當豐富的一次會議。 
 
二、 攜回資料名稱及內容： 
論文集 Proceeding of IEEE ISCAS 2012 (DVD ROM) 
近期會議資訊  Call for Papers   
1. IEEE APCCAS 2012 Call for Paper 
1Yuan-Hao Huang
 寄件者: iscas@epapers.org
寄件日期: 2012年1月7日星期六 上午 12:23
收件者: yhhuang@ee.nthu.edu.tw
副本: iscas@epapers.org
主旨: ISCAS 2012 Decision Notification - Paper 1361
Dear Yuan‐Hao Huang, 
 
Congratulations ! 
 
Your paper number 1361 entitled "A Constant‐Throughput LLL Algorithm with Deep Insertion for LR‐Aided 
MIMO Detection", has been accepted for presentation at the 2012 IEEE International Symposium on 
Circuits & Systems, to be held in Seoul, Korea from 20‐23 May 2012. We look forward to your participation 
and presentation at ISCAS 2012.   
 
Your paper has been assigned to DSP for Communications Lecture session B3L‐C. The full Conference 
schedule will be available on the ISCAS 2012 web site very soon. Be sure to check the conference web site 
(http://www.iscas2012.org) often as important information is posted regularly on this site. If there are 
additional co‐authors for this paper, please make sure to inform them of this decision. 
 
Remember that you must adhere to the following requirements: 
1. In order to guarantee inclusion in the conference program one author must be registered by Feb 10, 
2012 23:59 (GMT ‐0700), the pre‐registration deadline.     
2. Your completed IEEE copyright form must be received by Feb 10, 2012 23:59 (GMT ‐0700). The form and 
instructions can be found at http://iscas2012.e‐papers.org/ESR/copyright.php 
3. Your full paper in PDF format must be submitted no later than Feb 10, 2012 23:59 (GMT ‐0700) at this 
web site: http://iscas2012.e‐papers.org/. Your paper must comply with the specifications outlined on the 
web site. Due to publication deadlines, no time extensions will be granted. 
4. Your username to log into your author account is: yhhuang. 
5. If you have forgotten your password, click on the  　 orgot your Password??link located in the log‐in box 
of the submission web site (http://iscas2012.e‐papers.org/). 
 
IMPORTANT PROCEDURE: It is REQUIRED that all PDF submissions be IEEE Xplore compliant. If your file 
does not meet Xplore compliance, it will NOT be published and will be removed from the ISCAS 2012 
Proceedings CDROM and the IEEE Xplore system. To help you meet these new requirements, you must 
FIRST check to ensure that your PDF file is compliant by using the IEEE PDF eXpress system BEFORE you 
submit your paper to the conference final submission web site.   
 
1. Go to the IEEE PDF eXpress web site: www.pdf‐express.org 2. Use this conference ID:    iscas12x 3. Use 
PDF eXpress to check or create your PDF file 4. Once you have a GOOD PDF file, return to the ISCAS 2012 
final submission web site (http://iscas2012.e‐papers.org/) and upload your final submission. 
 
Please keep in mind that checking your PDF file for compliance and submitting your final paper for 
publication are 2 separate procedures. After you have finished using the IEEE PDF eXpress system to either 
check your file for compliance or to generate a compliant file, MAKE SURE to return to the ISCAS 2012 final 
submission web site (http://iscas2012.e‐papers.org/) and upload your compliant final submission.   
 
Please accept our thanks for submitting your paper to the Conference. We look forward to seeing you in 
Seoul, for an interesting and exciting Conference. 
 
A Constant-Throughput LLL Algorithm with Deep
Insertion for LR-aided MIMO Detection
Chiao-En Chen∗, Hang Su∗, Chun-Fu Liao†, and Yuang-Hao Huang†
∗Department of Electrical/Communications Engineering
National Chung Cheng University, Chiayi, Taiwan.
†Institute of Communications Engineering and Department of Electrical Engineering
National Tsing-Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan.
Email: ieecec@ccu.edu.tw∗, yhhuang@ee.nthu.edu.tw†
Abstract—Lattice reduction (LR) has emerged as a popular
technique to improve the performance of many low complexity
MIMO detectors. Among the existing LR algorithms, the LLL
algorithm has been applied to MIMO communications almost
exclusively to date. However, the conventional LLL algorithm
has variable reduction time, and hence non-constant throughput
for the resulting communications system. In order to address this
issue, this paper proposed a new variant of the LLL-algorithm
(CT-LLL-deep) having constant throughput by introducing the
concept of deep insertion into a parallel variant of LLL. Simu-
lation results show that LR-aided detectors using the proposed
CT-LLL-deep are capable of achieving lower bit error rate with
much less reduction time, comparing to those using other existing
LR algorithms.
I. INTRODUCTION
Multiple-input-multiple-output (MIMO) techniques have
drawn considerable interests due to its potential of providing
reliable high data-rate wireless links. As the achievable capac-
ity linearly increases in proportional to the minimum number
of deployed transmit and receive antennas [1, 2], very high
spectral efficiency can be achieved by sending independent
data streams over the spatio dimension (which is often referred
as spatial multiplexing) [3].
Many MIMO detectors achieving different complexity-
performance tradeoffs have been proposed for spatial multi-
plexed systems. The maximum likelihood (ML) detector has
the best error rate performance, but also the highest complexity
growing exponentially with the number of antennas and the
constellation size of the modulation in use. Although the
optimal ML detector can be economically implemented via
tree-search techniques such as sphere decoders (SD) [4], the
complexity of SD is still too costly for most applications
since the full tree-search has to be performed for each vector
data symbol. On the contrary, suboptimal detection schemes
such as linear detectors and ordered successive interference
cancellation (SIC) detectors have much lower complexity.
However, the error rate performance of these low complexity
detection schemes are far from optimal, and does not attain
the full diversity order as achieved by the ML.
Recently, the technique of lattice reduction (LR) has been
proposed for MIMO detection [5]. By introducing the con-
cept of lattice reduction, the error rate performance of the
aforementioned low-complexity detectors can be dramatically
improved [6]–[10]. It has also been shown that full diversity
order can be achieved even with the simplest LR-aided zero-
forcing detector [11].
Among the LR algorithms, the Lenstra-Lenstra-Lova´sz
(LLL) algorithm [12] has been used for MIMO LR-aided de-
tection problems almost exclusively to date. One of the major
issues of the LLL algorithm is its variable reduction time,
which may cause problems for the MIMO system from the
implementation point of view. In [13], a fixed complexity LLL
algorithm has been proposed to address this issue by altering
the traverse of column exchanges. A different approach has
been proposed in [14], where a constant throughput LLL (CT-
LLL) is proposed by combining the parallel LLL [15] as well
as the effective LLL algorithm [16]. In this paper, we proposed
a new variant of the LLL algorithm, CT-LLL-deep, aiming
at providing better error rate while maintaining a constant-
throughput parallel architecture. The idea is to introduce sorted
Gram-Schmidt orthogonalization (GSO) implementation of the
deep insertion [17] into the parallel LLL [15]. This makes the
proposed algorithm capable of finding more orthogonal basis
and hence achieving better error rate with substantially less
reduction time as verified by the numerical simulations.
The organization for the rest of the paper is as follows.
Section II introduces the system model and the general concept
of LR-aided MIMO detection. Section III overviews the LLL
algorithm and the motivation of this work. In Section IV, we
present the proposed CT-LLL-deep and summarize it with a
pseudo-code. In Section V, we present the simulation results of
the proposed CT-LLL-deep in comparison with other exiting
algorithms such as LLL, LLL-deep, and CT-LLL. Finally, we
conclude this paper in Section VI.
Notations: Throughout this paper, matrices and vectors are
set in boldface, with upper case letters for matrices and lower
case letters for vectors. The notation 〈·, ·〉 and ‖ · ‖ denote the
inner product and the Euclidean distance, respectively.
II. OVERVIEW ON LR-AIDED MIMO DETECTION
A. System Description
We consider an uncoded MIMO system with Nt transmit
and Nr receive antennas. The information bit stream is first
demultiplexed into Nt substreams and independently mapped
to rectangular QAM symbols in the common constellation
basis of LLL-deep satisfies
‖pii(h˜i)‖ = min{‖pii(h˜i)‖, ‖pii(h˜i+1)‖, . . . , ‖pii(h˜n)‖}, (6)
which is stronger than the Lovas´z conditions of LLL with
δ = 1, and can be implemented using the sorted GSO.
Here pii(·) denotes the projection operator onto the orthogonal
complement of the subspace spanned by the vectors h˜1, h˜2,
..., h˜i−1. The sorted GSO implementation of deep-insertion
has been used in the proposed CT-LLL-deep algorithm as
in line 3 and line 21 of Algorithm 1. In contrast to the
CT-LLL, our proposed CT-LLL-deep is capable of finding
shorter and more orthogonal basis, and hence improves the
error rate of the underlying LR-aided MIMO system. From
the system’s perspective, the proposed CT-LLL-deep requires
shorter reduction time comparing to LLL, LLL-deep, and CT-
LLL to attain a specified error rate, and therefore is more
suitable for systems experiencing fast fading environment.
Lastly, it is worth mentioning that the full size reduction
in line 23-31 can be omitted in SIC detectors for further
complexity reduction, as size reduction does not change the
Gram-Schmidt vectors and hence does not affect the error rate
of SIC detectors [16].
Algorithm 1 The proposed CT-LLL-deep algorithm
1: Input: H˜ = [h˜1, . . . , h˜n] = H
2: Set T = [t1, . . . , tn] = I
3: Compute [µi,j ] from H˜ via sorted GSO such that Hˆ = H˜[µi,j ]
T
4: Set p = 2
5: for s = 1 : STAGE do
6: if mod(s, p) 6= 0 then
7: p = 2
8: else
9: p = 3
10: end if
11: for m = p : 2 : Nt do
12: if |Re{µm,m−1}| > 0.5 or |Im{µm,m−1}| > 0.5 then
13: Set c = round(µm,m−1).
14: h˜m = h˜m − ch˜m−1
15: tm = tm − ctm−1
16: for i = 1 : m− 1 do
17: µm,i = µm,i − cµm−1,i
18: end for
19: end if
20: end for
21: Update [µi,j ] from H˜ via sorted GSO.
22: end for
23: for m = 3 : Nt do
24: for p = m− 2 : −1 : 1 do
25: Set c = round(µm,m−1)
26: h˜m = h˜m − ch˜p
27: tm = tm − ctp
28: for i=1:m-1 do
29: µm,1 = µm,1 − cµp,i
30: end for
31: end for
32: end for
V. SIMULATIONS
In this section, we present the simulation results of the
proposed CT-LLL-deep in comparison with a number of
existing LR algorithms, including LLL, LLL-deep, and CT-
LLL. Throughout the simulation, we assume an 8× 8 MIMO
system with i.i.d. Rayleigh fading channel.
In Fig. 1, we plot the average orthogonality defect versus
the number of stages attained by the studied LR algorithms,
with each simulation point obtained by averaging over 5×104
channel realizations. The orthogonality defect
OD(H˜) =
∏NT
k=1 ‖h˜k‖√
det(H˜HH˜)
(7)
is a popular orthogonality measure, which attains its minimum
OD(H˜) = 1 if and only if H˜ is orthogonal. Fig. 1 clearly
shows that the parallel processing architecture used in CT-
LLL and CT-LLL-deep requires much less number of stages
to achieve the same orthogonality measure compared to LLL
and LLL-deep. The proposed CT-LLL-deep outperforms CT-
LLL in the sense of finding more orthogonal basis, which is
due to the more powerful sorting mechanism used in the CT-
LLL-deep.
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
stage
o
rt
h
o
g
o
n
al
it
y
 d
ef
ec
t
 
 
LLL
LLL−deep
CT−LLL
CT−LLL−deep
Fig. 1. Average orthogonality defect versus number of stages attained by
different LR algorithms.
The orthogonality of the generated basis directly affects the
bit error rate (BER) of LR-aided detectors in use. In Fig. 2 we
plot the bit error rate curves versus the number of stages for
a LR-aided SIC MIMO detector using QPSK modulation at
SNR = 16 dB. It can be observed that the CT-LLL attains the
bit error rate 4×10−4 by 19 iterations, while the proposed CT-
LLL-deep attains substantially lower bit error rate 10−4 by 21
stages. Since CT-LLL and CT-LLL-deep require significantly
less reduction time than the LLL and LLL-deep to achieve
a specified BER. Fig. 3 shows the error rate curves of the
same system versus the SNR, under different reduction time
constraints. As we can see from the figure, when the reduction
time is constrained to the 10 stages, the performance of LLL
and LLL-deep is significantly degraded compared to that with
full reduction. On the contrary, CT-LLL and CT-LLL-deep
perform reasonably well for 10 stages with the performance
gap to the full reduction less than 1 dB. From Fig. 2 and
Fig. 3, we can then conclude that both CT-LLL and CT-LLL-
deep are more suitable for scenarios where the reduction time
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/24
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫四：主動雷達系統之數位訊號處理演算法與架構設計-人體偵測、定位
與生理量測(I)
計畫主持人: 黃元豪
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-007-046- 學門領域: 積體電路及系統設計
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
第一年所完成的雷達人體呼吸特徵擷取可分析出多樣的呼吸特性，為現有文獻
尚未達到的成果，已經與長庚醫院與雙和醫院的醫師進行合作，相信會對臨床
胸腔科病人的診斷與照護會有貢獻，在醫學學術研究上可以進一步進行更有意
義的研究。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
