Key Technology Studies of Real-time and Post Processing 
 for a High Quality VoIP System (II) 
 
Wen-Ping Lai (賴文彬) 
Department of Communications Engineering, 
Yuan Ze University, Chung-Li 320, Taoyuan, Taiwan 
摘要 
本研究報告為兩年期研究計畫之下半段，其主要目標在於研究與發展一個高品質的網路電話
(VoIP)系統之即時處理與後處理關鍵技術。兩個主要的研究議題包括：(A) 網路電話語音封包
遺失導致之解碼錯誤傳播長度之離線測量與即時封包重要性策略，以及(B) 多媒體會議中語者
角色模型與偵測之訊號後處理技術。本報告敘述此兩議題之問題所在，以及我們提出與發展的
方法。就議題(A)而言，三個關鍵問題與其方法連同實驗結果將被討論與分析，包括：(1) 單
封包遺失損傷之感知測量，(2) 不完美封包遺失補償導致之語音損傷佔單封包遺失損傷之比例， 
(3) 即時封包重要性之最佳化策略。就議題(B)而言，為達成語者角色偵測發展了4種相關方法，
包括：(1) 語音區塊端點之即時測量，(2) 語音區塊端點之訊號後處理，(3) 混合語音之區塊對
齊, 以及(4) CRF 語者模型化。議題(A)的結果可對即時網路電話應用中的語音封包重要性測量
準確度與額外語音延遲兩者間的最佳化提供好的設計依據，而議題(B)所發展的方法可用於即
時多媒體遠距會議中的語者角色偵測。 
 
關鍵詞：錯誤傳播測量、即時語音封包重要性、語者角色偵測 
 
Abstract 
This report is for the second half of a two years long project with the main objective of studying and 
developing the key technologies of real-time and post processing for a high quality VoIP system. 
Two major research issues are addressed including (A) offline error propagation measurements of 
speech decoding induced by packet loss and real-time packet importance strategy, and (B) speaker 
role modeling and detection for multimedia meeting via signal post-processing. This report describes 
the problems related to the two research issues, and various methods or algorithms have been 
proposed and developed. For issue (A), three key problems with their methods and results are 
addressed and analyzed, including (1) perceptual measurement of Single Frame Loss (SFL) 
impairment as the full packet importance, (2) the ratio of the IPLC induced speech impairment to 
SFL, and (3) optimal real-time strategy of packet importance. For issue (B), four relevant algorithms 
toward the objective of speaker role detection have been developed, including: (1) real-time 
detection of speech-block end-points, (2) estimation of speech-block end-points using signal 
post-processing, (3) alignment of speech blocks with a signal mixture, and (4) CRF based speaker 
role modeling. The results of (A) provide a good guideline for optimizing the extra coding delay and 
the accuracy of packet importance for real-time VoIP applications, while the developed methods of 
(B) is applicable to speaker role detection in multimedia based remote meeting. 
  
Keywords: Error Propagation Measurement; Real-time Packet Importance; Speaker Role Detection 
2.1  Offline Error Propagation Measurements and Real-ime Packet Importance Strategy 
 
 
Figure A-1. Division of SFL into IPLC and EP, which respectively stand for the packet importance 
of current speech frame and that of future EP affected speech frames.  
 
Packet loss is the most important quality degradation factor of real-time Voice over IP (VoIP) 
communications. This factor consists of two effects: Imperfect Packet Loss Concealment (IPLC) and 
IPLC associated Error Propagation (EP), where ignoring the latter will affect the accuracy of 
real-time VoIP packet importance. Thus, it is helpful for the encoder at the sender side to 
intentionally wait for enough future speech frames to include the EP effect for enhancing the 
accuracy of the current packet importance so as to enhance the overall quality of VoIP transmission 
over a network with differentiated service. However this introduces the cost of an extra encoding 
delay which will limit the realtime of VoIP. Such a dilemma for a real-time speech encoder can be 
found only if the error propagation effect of a single speech frame loss can be measured and 
understood, and an optimal strategy for both the realtime and the packet importance accuracy can be 
proposed. 
    To save the network bandwidth, the design of modern speech coders is directed towards low-bit 
rate with a highly complicated temporal prediction mechanism. This usually introduces a high 
temporal dependence between speech frames or packets (we assume one speech frame is 
encapsulated in one packet in this research for simplicity). Hence, once a packet is lost during 
transmission, serious error propagation to its succeeding received frames could happen due to the 
fact that the states of the encoder and decoder are not synchronized. It takes some time for the 
encoder and decoder to resynchronize so that error propagation stops, and the duration for 
resynchronization is also referred to as the length of error propagation. For example, Figure A-1 
demonstrates the effect of error propagation due to the transmission loss of a single speech packet 
(frame), say packet 3. As a result, both packet 3 and its succeeding received packets experience some 
decoding distortions, including packets 4, 5, 6, 7. All these distortions come from the loss of packet 3.   
Our research studies more on both the IPLC and EP effects of the Skype speech coder iLBC 
and the various bit rate modes of AMR in addition to the G.729a coder. Starting from an offline 
studies, however based on our experimental results, we can suggest a real-time strategy for designing 
an optimal encoding delay in order for including the enough EP effect to account for the real-time 
packet importance. In short, the novelty of our research is two folded: 
 Providing an direct and intuitive definition of for packet importance for VoIP transmission loss 
 Delivering detailed measurements of advanced and multi-rates speech codecs including single 
rate G.729a, three bit rates of AMR , and two bit rates of iLBC [A-9], as detailed in Table A-1. 
 Carrying out a real-time strategy for determining the VoIP packet importance for transmission 
over differentiated-service based networks such as the 802.11e wireless network or the IETF 
DiffServ core networks.     
The results and analyses of this research issue will be summarized in Section 3.1. 
 
2.2  Speaker Role Modeling and Detection via Signal Post-processing 
 
The aim of this research direction is creation of high-quality video content based on multi-party 
real-time communication that uses low quality speech signals. In the first year of the project we 
focused on using the mixture of low-quality voice signals from the teleconference as a time reference 
for the interaction of multiple speakers, and to reassemble the whole or parts of the teleconference 
using high-quality voice signals that are received retroactively from the participants. In year two we 
also focused on detection of speaker roles of the participants. 
The post-processing methods can be used to estimate the timing of the conversation based on 
the alignment of speech blocks in the speech mixture. The timing can be used to present additional 
material in the multimedia recording. Examples are video signal for the main speaker or panelist 
(Figure B-2), the input for white board etc. In the future, the presentation of the speakers in the video 
content will be decided based on estimated speaker roles of the participants. The potential 
applications of the technology include presenting testimonies, job interviews, or panel discussions to 
corporate, scientific or governmental committees, review boards, or courts, broadcasting news and 
interviews to the public, or preparing educational material based on interactive online lectures or 
expert panel discussions. Academic benefits of the developed methods in other areas of engineering 
are illustrated in Figure B-7, which shows detection of features in a blood pressure signals using our 
newly developed model comparison method. 
              
          (a) Quality Tradeoffs                      (b) Bit rates after compression 
Figure B-1 (a) The tradeoff between quality of audiovisual signal, bit rate, and delay. High quality of 
the signal is indicated by a high mean opinion score (MOS), and a low probability of errors pe. (b) 
 3. Developed algorithms, Results and Analyses 
 
This section describes and analyzes the experimental results of research issues (A) and (B), 
conducted for the second year of this two years project. 
3.1  Offline Error Propagation Measurements and Real-time Packet Importance Strategy  
Three key problems are addressed in this issue, including: 
 Perceptual measurement of Single Frame Loss (SFL) as the full packet importance, i.e. total 
speech impairment due to a single speech loss for our target speech coding modes (coder types 
and coding rates) if referred to as the full packet importance 
 The ratio of the IPLC induced speech impairment to SFL 
 Optimal real-time strategy of packet importance, determined from the EP measurements of the 
target speech coding modes.  
 
 Perceptual measurement of SFL as the full packet importance 
 
 
Figure A-2. Experimental Setup for the offline packet importance measurement due to single speech 
frame (packet) loss. 
 
Based on our intuitive definition in (4) for the packet importance due to SFL, the experimental setup 
is described in Figure A-2. Firstly, to be language independent, the ITU-T Sup. 23 speech database 
consisting of multiple languages (English, Japanese, Germany, and French) were used, and equal 
number of speech files from each language were taken as the input test speech. Every test speech file 
follows were encoded and decoded by six different speech coding modes via two different signal 
process routes to obtain MOS(s, c) and MOS(s, c, e), and their difference can be defined as the 
packet importance contributed by SFL in units of the MOS scale. Table A-1 shows the six different 
speech coding modes, including the bit rate and frame length. Figure A-3 illustrates the SFL based 
  Ratio of the IPLC induced speech impairment to SFL 
 
 
Figure A-4. The cross-fading function at the cutting position for separating SFL into IPLC and EP.  
 
 
Figure A-5. Comparison of SFL and IPLC 
 
Table A-3 Ratio of IPLC to SFL and ratio of EP to SFL    
Coding modes G.729a AMR475 AMR795 AMR122 iLBC20 iLBC30 
 Ratio of IPLC to SFL 38.8% 50.1% 53.6% 49.2% 61.3% 59.4% 
Ratio of EP to SFL 61.2% 49.9% 46.4% 50.8% 38.7% 40.6% 
 
Figure A-4 shows the cross-fading function we used at cutting the position for separating SFL into 
IPLC and EP is used to avoid the clicking sound due to a sharp cut induced speech pulse shape 
discontinuity. After applying the smoothed cutting, the IPLC and EP effects can then be obtained 
respectively. Figure A-5 shows the comparison between the average EFL and IPLC effects in the 
PESQ MOS scale. To be more specific numerically, the ratio of IPLC to SFL and that of EP to SFL 
are given respectively in Table A-3, which demonstrates that the EP effect of G.729a is the most 
serious, and that of iLBC is the smallest. This agrees with the results of the EP length measurements, 
which is summarized in Table A-4, where in average G.729a has the longest EP, and iLBC has the 
We propose a new concept called RRPI (Recovery Rate of Packet Importance) which is defined as 
the ratio of (IPLC + partial EP) to SFL, where the level of partial EP depends on the desired extra 
coding delay, and so the RRPI. Figure A-6 illustrates the data points and their fit curves in quadratic 
polynomial with different fit parameter sets for RRPI versus the extra coding delay with our six 
target coding modes, where the number of data points for each coding mode could be different 
depending on the frame length of the coding mode. By definition, when the extra coding delay is 
longer than the EP length, RRPI can completely recover back to 1, which stands for the full recovery 
of packet importance has been achieved. Table A-5 gives a numerical view of PPRI in the target 
coding modes with 0 to 40 ms of extra coding delay, where some of them are not applicable (N/A) 
considering the available speech length. Both Figure A-6 and Table A-5 can provide a good guideline 
for determining the optimal extra coding delay if a given accuracy for a VoIP packet coded by a 
specific coder type and coding bit rate. 
   
Table A-5 RRPI with various extra coding delays for the six speech coding modes.  
Extra Coding Delay G.729a AMR475 AMR795 AMR122 iLBC20 iLBC30 
0 ms 38.54% 50.03% 49.16% 49.20% 61.16% 63.21% 
10 ms 72.23% N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 
20 ms 83.70% 95.52% 91.61% 89.42% 98.45% N/A 
30 ms 89.75% N/A N/A N/A N/A 99.89% 
40 ms 93.30% 98.43% 96.49% 95.38% 99.94% N/A 
3.2  Speaker Role Modeling and Detection via Signal Post-processing 
Four relevant algorithms for the addressed problem have been developed including: 
 Real-Time Detection of Speech-block End-points 
 Estimation of Speech-block End-points using Signal Post-processing 
 Alignment of Speech Blocks with a Signal Mixture 
 CRF based Speaker Role Modeling 
 
 Real-Time Detection of Speech-block End-points 
For real-time detection of speech block end-points we developed a change-point detection algorithm. 
The algorithm aims to detect these change-points as soon as possible with a controlled false alert rate. 
The main challenge was that we did not assume the knowledge of the distributions of the observed 
random variables Xn before and after the end-points. Therefore we cannot use classical optimal CPD 
procedures that are based on likelihood ratios, such as Page's cumulative sum (CUSUM) statistic or 
the Shiryaev-Roberts-Pollak statistic [B-4], [B-10]. The developed procedure is non-parametric and 
requires training to be approximately or partially optimized. 
Detecting end points for speech-blocks for multiple speakers corresponds to multiple-channel 
detection. We modified our multi-channel non-parametric CPD algorithm for detection of an 
increase in the mean that occurs in exactly one of N channels (see [B-1], [B-11]). It independently 
thresholds sequential statistics 
  
    (a)  
 
 
 
    (b) 
 
 
 
Figure B-4: Post-processing of speech signals to estimate speech-block end-points. The method 
consists of comparison of different linear models and finding a location with the best improvement 
of the model fit with the estimated speech-signal entropy. Two short-pauses are found in the 
continuous speech-block. 
 
 
Figure B-5: Detection statistic of the speech-block start and short-pause ends for signal in Figure B-4. 
The location and shape of the transition period is varied and the detection statistic R is maximized 
separately for each short pause. 
 
 
Figure B-6: Alignment of a speech block with a signal mixture. The top graph depicts the entropy for 
the speech mixture. The lower curve shows the sliding correlation with the entropy in the 
neighborhood of the speech block‟s left end-point. Its maximum is achieved close to the vertical red 
line that depicts the true location of the speech block in the signal mixture.  
 
The detection algorithm consists of the following main steps: 
1. Fit models M1 and M2 to entropies in the k-th time window. The values of the parameters m1 
and m2 will be varied as follows, for some preselected transition zone widths K1 and K2: 
that is used in theory of hierarchical linear models for testing a hypothesis H that the two models 
have the same fit [34]. Here p1 = 1 and p2 = 3 are the numbers of parameters in the models M1 and 
M2, respectively. In our application we need to find a time window with the most significant slope 
change, i.e. with the maximum value of the F-statistic. Since the quantity a = (n–p2)/(p2–p1) = n–3 is 
constant for a fixed window size n, it is enough to compare the values of R(k,n,m). 
 
 Alignment of Speech Blocks with a Signal Mixture 
For the purpose of aligning individual speakers‟ speech blocks with the speech-signal mixture we use 
a speech-entropy correlation approach. A sliding window of the entropy of the speech signal mixture 
is correlated with the entropy in the neighborhood of the estimated left end-point of the speech-block. 
The sliding correlation coefficient is maximized to estimate the location of the speech block in the 
signal mixture. The covariance is then calculated for the original speech signals in order to obtain the 
coefficients for the speech mixture reconstruction. The process is repeated for multiple speakers‟ 
speech blocks. The advantage of aligning short speech blocks is preserving the timing of the 
conversation. Figure B-6 illustrates the alignment of one speech block with a signal mixture.  
 
Figure B-6: Three-dimensional states representing the roles of three speakers. 
 
 CRF Based Speaker Role Modeling 
Figure B-7 depicts three-dimensional states of Markov model for speaker roles. The models 
transitions occur at the boundaries of speech-blocks of all involved speakers. The timing of the 
transitions is modeled as a superposition of multiple Poisson processes, one for each speaker. We 
also investigate the extension of the continuous-time HMM model using conditional random fields 
that allow multi-step temporal differences between the speaker roles. Diagram (a) in Figure B-8 
shows a HMM and diagram (b) depicts a corresponding CRF model similar to the HMM. The 
features f and g are indicator functions for the edges between the consecutive states Yn-1 and Yn, and 
between the observation Xn and the state Yn, respectively. 
 
 
Figure B-7: Three-dimensional states representing the roles of three speakers. 
 
4. Summary and Outlook 
 
This research is a two years long project on „Key Technology Studies of Real-time and Post 
Processing for a High Quality VoIP System‟, and this report is a concluding report for its second half. 
We have successfully conducted a wide range of studies over the research issues (A) and (B), where 
(A) is for „Offline Error Propagation (EP) Measurements and Real-time Packet Importance 
Strategy‟, and (B) for „Speaker Role Modeling and Detection via Signal Post-processing‟. 
     In research issue (A), our major achievements include: (1) we have quantitatively discussed 
and analyzed the IPLC and EP contributions of the SFL effect by providing a smoothed cutting 
function for three types of low bit rate coders (G.729a, AMR, iLBC) spanning six coding bit rates; (2) 
perception based average EP lengths for these six coding modes have been quantitatively measured; 
(3) a new concept called RRPI has been proposed to provide a good guideline for optimizing the 
extra coding delay and the accuracy of packet importance for real-time VoIP applications.  
In research issue (B), four methods have been developed including: (1) real-time detection of 
speech-block end-points, (2) estimation of speech-block end-points using signal post-processing, (3) 
alignment of speech blocks with a signal mixture, and (4) CRF based speaker role modeling. 
Implementation of these algorithms for real-time applications will be the future work, and can open a 
whole new area of development in multimedia communication and content creation. As mentioned 
previously, applications of our newly developed methods to other areas of engineering are illustrated 
in Figure B-7. We have applied the new model comparison method to detect features in a blood 
pressure signals. 
Five academia papers by the PI or co-PIs of this project have been published, accepted or 
submitted ([A-10], [A-11], [B-1], [B-2], [B-3]), and several more are in preparation. 
 
References 
[A-1]   D. W. Petr, L. A. DaSilva and V. S. Frost, “Priority discarding of speech in integrated 
packet networks,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, vol. 7, no. 5, pp. 
644–656, 1989. 
[A-2]  J. C. De Martin, “Source-driven packet marking for speech transmission over 
differentiated-services networks,” in Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on 
Audio, Speech and Signal Processing, Salt Lake City, UT, May 2001, pp. 753–756. 
[A-3]   ITU-T G.729, Coding of speech at 8 kbit/s using conjugate-structure algebraic-code-excited 
linear prediction (CS-ACELP). 
[A-4]   M. Petracca, A. Servetti, and J. C. De Martin, “Voice transmission over 802.11 wireless 
networks using analysis-by-synthesis packet classification,” in First International 
Symposium on Control, Communications and Signal Processing, Hammamet, Tunesia, Mar. 
2004, pp. 587–590. 
[A-5]   3G TS 26.090 V5.0.0 (2002-06), AMR Speech Codec: Transcoding Functions (Release 5) 
3GPP, 2002 
[A-6]   C. Hoene, I. Marsh, G. Schäfer and A. Wolisz, “Error Propagation After Concealing a Lost 
Speech Frame,” Workshop on Multimedia Communication: State of the Art and Future 
Directions, IEEE International Conference on Communications (ICC'06), 11-15 June 2006, 
pp. 252-293, July 2006. 
[B-12] A. Tartakovsky, B. Rozovskii, R.B. Blazek, H. Kim, “Response of Authors to Discussions on 
Detection of Intrusions in Information Systems by Sequential Change-point Methods,” 
Statistical Methodology, Volume 3, Issue 3, pp. 329-340, July 2006. 
[B-13] Vinciarelli, A., "Speakers Role Recognition in Multiparty Audio Recordings Using Social 
Network Analysis and Duration Distribution Modeling," Multimedia, IEEE Transactions on, 
vol.9, no.6, pp.1215-1226, Oct. 2007. 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：賴文彬 計畫編號：98-2221-E-155-043- 
計畫名稱：高品質 VoIP 系統之即時處理與後處理關鍵技術研究(II) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 1 1 50%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 4 5 50% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
