行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
測量誤差存在之製程能力評估方法(I) 
Estimating and Assessing Process Capability in the Presence of 
Measurement Errors 
 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E－035－014 
執行期間：96 年 08 月 01 日至 97 年 07 月 31 日 
主持人：吳建瑋 逢甲大學工業工程與系統管理學系 
（一）計畫中文摘要 
製程能力分析應用於品質及生產力持續改善的管控過程中已經成為一項重要且明確
的工具。透過適當的製程能力指標可提供一量化數據以反應出真實製程產出績效以及和規
格界限的關係。 然而，文獻上關於製程能力評估的相關研究成果大部分都沒有考慮樣本數
據的測量誤差因素，而這樣的假設並不能恰當反映出真實的情形，因為即使用先進的測量
儀器來量測品質特性，測量誤差的存在往往也是無法避免的。 所以在這樣假設下進行製程
能力評估所做出的結論並不可靠且可能導致誤判。 因此，本計畫首先針對測量誤差對能力
指標影響進行敏感度分析。其次，在測量誤差存在下，探討及分析指標估計量的抽樣分配
及相關的統計性質。最後，在考慮測量誤差下提出解決方法建構出能力指標之信賴區間。
如此一來，對於測量誤差無法避免的現實情況下，此計畫的研究成果將可提供決策者更精
確評估真實的製程狀況，並有效掌握本身產線的製程能力及改善方向。 
關鍵詞：信賴區間；量測系統分析；製程能力評估；抽樣分配 
（二）計畫英文摘要: 
Process capability analysis has become an important and well-defined tool in applications of 
statistical process control (SPC) to a continuous improvement of quality and productivity. The 
relationship between the actual process performance and the specification limits (or tolerance) 
may be quantified using suitable process capability indices (PCIs). However, most research 
works related to PCIs measures have assumed that sample data are free from measurement errors. 
Such an assumption cannot reflect real situations appropriately even when highly advanced 
measurement instruments are employed. Conclusions drawn regarding process capability are 
unreliable and misleading. Therefore, this three-year period research is designed to deal with the 
issue of measurement errors and organized as follows: In this study, we first conducted a 
sensitivity investigation of measurement error effects on the performance of PCIs. Secondly, we 
investigated and analyzed the sampling distribution and the statistical properties of the estimated 
indices when gauge measurement errors are unavoidable. Finally, a novel approach is proposed to 
measure and assess process capability in the presence of gauge measurement errors. Therefore, 
the practitioners can apply the proposed method and testing procedure to their shop floor to make 
reliable decisions. 
Keywords：Confidence Interval, Measurement System Analysis, Process Capability Assessment, 
Sampling Distribution 
pointed out that the quality of the data related to the process characteristics relies substantially on 
the gauge capability. Any variation in the measurement process has a direct impact on estimating 
and testing process capability. The analysis of the effects of measurement errors on PCIs has 
received scarce attention in the literature. Mittag (1994, 1997) and Levinson (1995) were the 
pioneers to link measurement errors and PCIs. They quantified the percentage error on PCIs 
evaluation in the presence of measurement errors and examined the effects of random 
measurement errors on the performances of theoretical capability indices. Subsequently, 
Bordignon and Scagliarini (2002) studied the bias and mean square error of the estimators of Cp 
and Cpk when observations are contaminated by measurement errors, while Scagliarini (2002) 
analyzed the properties of the estimator of Cp for autocorrelated data in the presence of 
measurement errors. More recently, Bordignon and Scagliarini (2006) studied the properties of 
the estimator of Cpm when observations are affected by measurement errors. They also compared 
the performances of the estimator in the error case with those of the estimator in the error-free 
case. The results indicated that the presence of measurement errors in the data leads to different 
behavior of the estimator according to the entity of the error variability. Pearn et al. (2005) further 
conducted a sensitivity investigation on process capability Cp and Cpm in the presence of gauge 
measurement errors. The obtained results show that the estimator with sample data contaminated 
by measurement errors severely underestimates the true capability. Conclusions drawn from 
process capability analysis without considering measurement errors are therefore unreliable and 
misleading. Therefore, how to measure process capability accurately in the presence of 
measurement errors becomes an essential task. 
Weerhandi (1993) introduced the concept of generalized pivotal quantity (GPQ) and 
generalized confidence interval (GCI), and demonstrated how to use them to derive confidence 
interval procedures for situations when exact frequentist intervals are unavailable or difficult to 
apply. During the last decade, the idea of GCI and generalized tests has been used by many 
authors to obtain useful inference procedures in nonstandard problems, see e.g. Hamada and 
Weerhandi (2000), Chang and Huang (2000), and Mathew and Webb (2005). Chiang (2001) 
proposed a systematic approach for constructing GPQs for functions of variance components in 
balanced mixed linear model problems.  Iyer and Patterson (2002) have provided a general 
recipe for the construction of generalized test variables and GPQs. Although no general theory 
appears to exist that can provide a mathematical justification for the use of generalized inference, 
they also illustrated several applications of this approach to a variety of problems.  
Krishnamoorthy and Mathew (2004) derived one-sided tolerance limits for the observable 
random variable and the unobservable random effect in a one-way random model with balanced 
as well as unbalanced data. Liao et al. (2005) further developed procedures for one-sided and 
two-sided tolerance intervals for general linear models in which there exists a set of independent 
scaled chi-squared random variables. More recently, Kurian et al. (2008) applied the GCI method 
for constructing confidence intervals for process capability indices under the one-way random 
model for balanced as well as unbalanced data. 
In this study, we apply the idea of GCI to assess process capability based on the most 
commonly index Cpk in the presence of measurement errors. The remainder of this paper is 
organized as follows. Section 2 briefly introduces and discusses the statistical properties of the 
estimation for Cpk. Section 3 describes the estimation of process capability with measurement 
errors. The relationship and difference between the true and empirical process capability are also 
discussed here. The construction of confidence interval for index Cpk based on GCI method in the 
presence of measurement errors is given in Section 4. An exhaustive simulation was examined to 
assess the performance of the GCI method in terms of the coverage probability and the expected 
confidence interval and critical value difficult. 
Alternatively, Pearn and Wu (2005) derived the posterior probability p  with pkC  that the 
process under investigation is capable; then the credible interval, a Bayesian analogue of the 
classical confidence interval can be obtained using a numerical integration technique with 
iterations. Mathew et al. (2007) adopted the GCI concept to obtain lower confidence limits for 
the indices pkC , pmkC  and pkC ′′  via simulation under the normal assumption. 
However, most research works related to PCIs are carried out under the assumption of no 
gauge measurement errors. Unfortunately, such an assumption does not accommodate adequately 
real world situations even with the modern highly sophisticated measuring instruments and 
devices. Therefore, it is a critical and essential task to construct confidence intervals of PCIs 
when measurement errors are present or unavailable.  
3. Process Capability Measures with Measurement Errors 
The inevitable variations in process measurements come from two sources: the 
manufacturing process and the gauge. Gauge capability reflects the gauge’s precision, or lack of 
variation, but is not the same as calibration, which assures the gauge’s accuracy. Nowadays, many 
customers use process capability to judge supplier’s ability to deliver quality products. Suppliers 
ought to be aware of how gauges affect various process capability estimates. 
The gauge capability includes two components of measurement systems variability: 
repeatability and reproducibility. These studies are often referred to as gauge repeatability and 
reproducibility (GR&R) studies. To summarize we have:  
2 2 2 2
Gauge measurement error repeatability reproducibilityGσ σ σ σ= = + . 
Estimates for 2repeatabilityσ  and 2reproducibilityσ  come from a GR&R study. Barrentine (1991), 
Levinson (1995) and Montgomery (2001, 2005) provided useful procedures for GR&R studies. 
GR&R studies focus on quantifying the measurement errors. Common approaches to GR&R 
studies, such as the Range method (Montgomery and Runger (1993a)) and the ANOVA method 
(Montgomery and Runger (1993b), Burdick et al. (2003)), assume that the distribution of the 
measurement errors is normal with a mean error of zero. Let the measurement errors be described 
by a random variable 2(0, )GG N σ∼ , Montgomery and Runger (1993a) presented the gauge 
capability λ  by means of the formula:  
6
100%
G
USL LSL
σλ = ×− . 
Montgomery (2001) referred this ratio of 6 Gσ  to the tolerance width as the 
precision-to-tolerance or P/T ratio. Some authors and practitioners use the coefficient 5.15 instead 
of 6 (see, e.g. Barrentine (1991) and Levinson (1996)). For the measurement system to be 
deemed acceptable, the variability in the measurements due to the measurement system ought to 
be less than a predetermined percentage of the manufacturing tolerance. More details about the 
recommended guidelines for gauge acceptance can be found in the Automotive Industry Action 
Group (AIAG) Measurement Systems Analysis (MSA) manual. 
Let 2( , )~X N μ σ  represents the relevant quality characteristic of a manufacturing process 
and pkC  measures the “true” process capability based on the random variable X . However in 
practice, we deal with the observed variable Y  rather than with the “true” variable X . Assume 
that X  and G  are stochastically independent. In this case we have Y ~ 
2 2 2( , )Y Y GN μ μ σ σ σ= = + , and the empirical process capability index YpkC  will be obtained after 
2
2 2
2 2
( 1)
( , , , ) YY Y
Y
n S
V f Y S μ σ σ
−= = . 
Clearly, Z  and V  are independent, where Z  is a standard normal distribution and V  is 
a chi-square distribution with 1n −  degrees of freedom. Thus, the joint distribution of ( , )Z V  
is free from any model parameters. Inverting the functions 1f  and 2f , we get 
2
2
1 1
( 1)
( , , , ) YY
n S
g Y S Z V Y Z
nV
θ μ −= = = − , 
2
2 2
2 1
( 1)
( , , , ) YY Y
n S
g Y S Z V
V
θ σ −= = = . 
In order to construct the GCI for μ  and 2Yσ , we obtain the GPQs, Rμ  and 2
Y
Rσ  are given 
by 
2( 1) Yn sR y Z
nVμ
−= − 2YRy Z
n
σ= − , 
2
2( 1)
Y
Yn sR
Vσ
−= , 
where y  and 2Ys  are the observed values of Y  and 
2
YS , respectively. Since 
2 2[( ) /6]G USL LSLσ λ= −  is known, then the GPQ for 2σ , 2Rσ , can be obtained by 
{ }2 2 2max ,
Y
GR Rσ σ σ ε= − , 
where ε  is a small positive number to maintain non-negative variance components and 
2( , )R Rμ σ  is free from any unknown parameters. Thus, a GPQ for pkC  is given by 
2 2 2
min ,
3 3 3pkC
USL R R LSL d R M
R
R R R
μ μ μ
σ σ σ
⎧ ⎫− − − −⎪ ⎪⎪ ⎪= =⎨ ⎬⎪ ⎪⎪ ⎪⎩ ⎭
,              (3) 
and a 100(1 )%α−  generalized lower confidence limit of pkC  can be obtained by calculating 
the 100 thα  percentile of 
pkCR , [ ]pkCR α , which satisfies ( )[ ]pk pkC CP R R α α< = . 
5. Numerical Results 
To examine the performance of the generalized lower confidence limit of pkC , a series of 
simulations were undertaken.  In addition, we also carried out a sensitivity study to assess the 
effects of ignoring measurement errors on the performance of the generalized lower confidence 
limit of pkC . In the absence of measurement errors, the derivation of the generalized lower 
confidence limit of pkC  also can be found in Mathew et al. (2007). Note that the estimator of 
2
Yσ  without considering measurement errors is given by 
2
2( 1)
Y
Yn sR
Vσ
−= , 
and 2( , )
Y
R Rμ σ  is also free from any unknown parameters. Thus, a GPQ for pkC  by ignoring 
measurement errors is given by 
Figure 3. Coverage probabilities of pkL and 
Y
pkL  with 0(0.1)0.4λ = for 150n = . 
Figure 4. Expected values of pkL  and YpkL
with 0(0.1)0.4λ =  for 150n = . 
The interval estimates will be accurate if the estimated coverage probabilities are close to the 
nominal value. From Figures 1-4, it is very clear that ignoring measurement errors results in the 
expected value of YpkL  is smaller compared to that of pkL  and coverage probabilities of YpkL  
that are significant above the nominal confidence level. That is, the lower confidence limit of 
process capability would be substantially underestimated if one ignores measurement errors but 
they are actually present. And, the corresponding coverage probability would be overestimated in 
this case. Therefore, if the producers do not take into account the effects of measurement errors 
on assessing process capability, it may cause serious loss. In that case producers are unable affirm 
anymore that their processes will meet the capability requirements even if they are indeed 
sufficiently capable. The producers may incur substantial costs as quantities of acceptable product 
units will be incorrectly rejected. 
6. Conclusions 
A substantial majority of research works on process capability analysis that appeared in the 
literature do not take into account measurement errors. Unfortunately, measurement errors can 
not be avoided in many branches of manufacturing industry even they can be reduced by 
improving the gauge measurements and properly training operators. If the producers do not take 
into account the effects of the gauge capability on estimating and testing process capability, it 
may often lead to incorrect decisions and result in a serious loss if measurement errors are not 
being considered. This paper applies the GCI concept to measure process capability based on the 
most widely index Cpk in the presence of measurement errors. An exhaustive simulation was 
conducted to assess the performance of the GCI method in terms of the coverage probability and 
the expected value of the generalized confidence limit. Moreover, a sensitivity study was also 
carried out to analyze the effects of ignoring measurement errors on the performance of the GCI 
with various parameter settings. The results indicate that GCI method appears to quite 
satisfactory for assessing process capability when measurement errors are present or unavailable 
because it can provide more accurate lower confidence limits, and coverage probabilities are very 
near to the nominal confidence level, though slightly conservative in a few cases, especially for 
small sample size.  
Acknowledgments 
This work was partially supported by the National Science Council of Taiwan under grant no. 
NSC 96-2221-E-035-014. 
Part II: experimental design models and variance component estimation. Quality Engineering, 6(2), 
289-305. 
[31] Montgomery, D. C. (2001). Introduction to Statistical Quality Control, 4th Edition, John Wiley and 
Sons, New York.  
[32] Montgomery, D. C. (2005). Introduction to Statistical Quality Control, 5th Edition, John Wiley and 
Sons, New York. 
[33] Pearn, W. L., Kotz, S. and Johnson, N. L. (1992). Distributional and inferential properties of process 
capability indices. Journal of Quality Technology, 24(4), 216-233. 
[34] Pearn, W. L. and Liao, M. Y. (2005). Measuring process capability based on Cpk with gauge 
measurement errors. Microelectronics Reliability, 45, 739-751. 
[35] Pearn, W. L., Lin, G. H. and Chen, K. S. (1998). Distributional and inferential properties of process 
accuracy and process precision indices. Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods, 27(4), 
985-1000. 
[36] Pearn, W. L. and Lin, P. C. (2004). Testing process performance based on the capability index Cpk 
with critical values. Computers and Industrial Engineering, 47, 351-369. 
[37] Pearn, W. L., Shu, M. H. and Hsu, B. M. (2005). Testing process capability based on Cpm in the 
presence of random measurement errors. Journal of Applied Statistics, 32(10), 1003-1024. 
[38] Pearn, W. L. and Wu, C. W. (2005). Process capability assessment for index Cpk based on Bayesian 
approach. Metrika, 61(2), 221-234.  
[39] Perakis, M. and Xekalaki, E. (2004). A new method for constructing confidence intervals for the 
index Cpm. Quality and Reliability Engineering International, 20(7), 651-665. 
[40] Scagliarini M. (2002). Estimation of Cp for autocorrelated data and measurement errors. 
Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods, 31, 1647-1664. 
[41] Shiau, J. H., Chiang, C. T. and Hung, H. N. (1999). A Bayesian procedure for process capability 
assessment. Quality & Reliability Engineering International, 15, 369-378. 
[42] Spiring, F., Leung, B., Cheng, S. and Yeung, A. (2003). A bibliography of process capability papers. 
Quality and Reliability Engineering International, 19(5), 445-460. 
[43] Tang, L. C., Than, S. E. and Ang, B. W. (1997). A graphical approach to obtaining confidence limits 
of Cpk. Quality and Reliability Engineering International, 13, 337-346. 
[44] Vännman, K. (1997). Distribution and moments in simplified form for a general class of capability 
indices. Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods, 26, 159-179. 
[45] Vännman, K. and Hubele, N. F. (2003). Distributional properties of estimated capability indices 
based on subsamples, Quality and Reliability Engineering International, 19(2), 111-128. 
[46] Weerahandi, S. (1993). Generalized confidence intervals. Journal of American Statistical Association, 
88, 899-905. 
[47] Wu, C. W. (2007). An alternative approach to test process capability for unilateral specification with 
subsamples. International Journal of Production Research, 45(22), 5397-5415.  
[48] Wu, C. W. and Pearn, W. L. (2005). Capability testing based on Cpm with multiple samples. Quality 
and Reliability Engineering International, 21(1), 29-42. 
8. 計畫成果自評 
研究內容與原計畫相符，並已達成原計畫內預期完成之各項目標，研究成果具學術價
值，本計畫部分成果已投稿至國際學術期刊。 
 
二、與會心得 
本次參加會議是我第一次參加國際大型研討會，與多位國內其他學校教授一同前
往，讓我在即興奮又緊張的心情下，還能安心的享受這難得的旅程。如同前述，此會
議論文是 IEEE 所出版，為一 EI 等級 conference paper，且獲選論文有機會可直接
修改後於 IJICIC 期刊(SCI)登出，因此吸引了許多國內外學者參與。且此會議領域很
廣，且也邀請了許多 special session，因此與會學者舉凡電子、電機、資工、工工、
工管、資管等領域，所以此行不但見識到國際研討會難得的大場面外，也認識了許多
其他領域的學者。因此很高興能受國科會補助前往參加，期能有機會繼續參加像此規
模之國際研討會，以增廣見聞。 
 
三、建議： 
建議此研討會可以稍微增加每人報告的時間；在這次研討會中，每人規定的報告
時間僅有 15 分鐘，但由於需留下約 5 分鐘左右的時間讓聽眾發問問題，因此實值上
的報告時間約只剩下 10 分鐘左右；雖然 10 分鐘也可以將要報告的內容交待完畢，但
在整體的報告上會顯得十分匆促，因此建議可以讓每人的報告時間延長至 20 分鐘 (包
含問題時間，和一般國際研討會的規定時間略同)，這樣每個人在報告時也就比較不會
匆促、也比較能夠將自己的作品好好表達出來，對聽眾也有較多時間去瞭解、思考問
題。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱與內容： 
(1) ICICIC 2007 會議手冊(Conference Guidebook)：記載本研討會會議流程、報
告人員、地點、及報告題目等與研討會相關的會議手冊。 
(2) ICICIC 2007 光碟片：內容為這次研討會所有論文報告的全文檔案。 
 
 
minimum variance unbiased estimator ( UMVUE ) of 
tpL  denoted by ˆtpL , we obtain lower confidence bound 
(LCB) of ˆtpL  to make decisions on how well the 
process reliability meets specifications/requirements.  
2. The First-Stage Controlling Procedure 
for the Exponential Failure Process 
2.1 t -Chart Reliability Monitoring
For a system in a normal operation, failures are 
random event caused by, for example, sudden increase 
of stress and human error. Some research works 
[1][2][3][5][7] noted that the lifetime of electronic 
components and systems frequently possesses an 
exponential distribution. Xie et al. [8] proposed a new 
type of control chart called the t -chart, respectively, 
for monitoring high-yield processes with low defect 
rates, is superior to the original c -chart and u -chart 
by not requiring rational subgroups of samples, and 
more accurate and effective uses of high reliability 
items for monitoring failure process reliability. Here, 
we briefly review the t -chart procedure based on Xie
et al. [8].  
The distribution function of an exponential 
distribution with parameter O  is given by  
 Tf t =
1 te O
O

for 0t ! , 0O ! , (1) 
where O  is the mean time before failure.  
The process is considered to be out of control when 
the time to observe exactly one failure is less than 
lower control limit  LCL , or greater than upper 
control limit  UCL . When the process is normal, there 
is a chance for this to happen and it is commonly 
known as false alarm. The traditional false alarm 
probability is set to be 0.27% although any other false 
alarm probability can be used. The actual acceptable 
false alarm probability should in fact depend on the 
actual product or process. Assuming an acceptable 
probability of false alarm of 1D , the control limits can 
be obtained as: 
1ln ,
2
UCL D§ · O ¨ ¸© ¹
 ln 0.5 ,CL  O  and  
1ln 1
2
LCL D§ · O ¨ ¸© ¹
,  (2) 
where the center line  CL  is the median of the 
distribution. 
It can be noted here that the parameter O  in the 
exponential distribution normally should be estimated 
with the lifetime sample data. 1 2, ,..., nT T T  are taken 
from the exponential failure process, the retrospective 
control limits for monitoring the reliability of an 
exponential failure process use 1ˆ
n
ii T nO   ¦  in place 
of O  in (2). These retrospective control limits can then 
be utilized to monitor the failure times of components.  
Obviously, two advantages of using the control 
chart, one advantage is that the people involved can 
know when the reliability of the system is changed and 
by a proper follow up they can maintain and improve 
the reliability. Another advantage is that it informs the 
maintenance crew when to leave the process alone, 
thus saving time and resources.  
2.2 An Application Example
The controlling procedure of the t -chart for 
monitoring an exponential failure process is illustrated 
with the following case study taken from a 
semiconductor manufacturing factory making a lead-
free flip chip assembly process. The collected 30 
sample data, the time between failures in days, are 
plotted in Figure 1. The control limits of the t -chart 
for the sample data with 1D =0.0027 can be calculated 
as followings: 
UCL = 1ˆ ln
2
DO =10.8602, CL =  ˆ ln 0.5O =1.1392, and 
LCL = 1ˆ ln 1-
2
DO § · ¨ ¸© ¹
=0.0022. 
5 10 15 20 25 30
0.0022
1.1392
10.8602
Failure Number
Failure Time
Figure 1. A t -chart for the observed time 
between failures 
Figure 1 shows that all the points on the t -chart fall 
within the control limits, therefore, we conclude the 
process reliability is in control. But, being in control of 
a process by statistical process control is not enough 
since an in-control process can produce bad or out of 
specification products. The second stage controlling 
procedure for the exponential failure process is 
proposed in the following section. 
