estimating the hidden variables, and provided
some models for feed-forward yield
management. T3) we investigated
misalignment of WAT data naming and
designed a system for automatic WAT naming
alignment among legacy WAT data names to
facilitate effective sharing and reuse in yield
analysis. The designs of these tasks have been
validated by using data from fabs.
The benefits of our research results are i) to
enable engineers to extract, share, and reuse
knowledge of engineering analysis process, ii)
to provide fast and accurate device testing
naming alignment without extra effort of
engineers for facilitating quick analysis WAT
data by analysis tools, and iii) to enhance
explanatory capability of correlation model
used to control device uniformity and yield
diagnosis. They not only help reduce the cycle
time of looking for needed EDA tools/functions,
but also provide expert suggestions to
encourage engineers’ colaboration efectively.
Keywords: Engineering Data Analysis (EDA),
Analysis Flow Knowledge Extraction, Fault
Symptom Identification, Graphic Capturer,
WAT naming alignment, ontology, semantic
network, correlation analysis, WAT-In-line
regression modeling, multi-model identification
二、 Research Objectives and Background
Quick yield enhancement is one of the
critical aspects of engineering chain
management. In the sub-wavelength era, cycle
time requirement becomes more stringent
because capital investment is sky rocketing
while market demands change more rapidly
and the manufacturing process, equipments and
operations become more complicated than
before. Fast yield ramping is founded on
effective management of knowledge intensive
yield analysis.
Semiconductor fabs adopt engineering data
analysis (EDA) platforms provided by vendors
as basis to develop fab specific analysis
function tool suite with domain expert
knowledge to assist engineers in yield analysis.
What further differentiate the effectiveness of
yield analysis among fabs are the yield analysis
procedures (YAPs) that engineers combine their
knowledge with the applications of the EDA
tools for problem solving. There are three
topics in this project as follows:
2.1. Knowledge Engineering for
Semiconductor Yield Analysis: Tool
Application and Fault Symptom Identification
YAP consists of three layers as shown in
Figure 1.1: Triggered by a yield analysis event,
an engineer generates analysis purposes and
the corresponding plan (Purpose layer), and
then selects and applies appropriate EDA tools
in sequence (Tool layer) and identify fault
symptoms of EDA tool output to perform
analysis according to the purpose plan to
accomplish his/her goal. EDA tool provision is
by the third layer, EDA platform. In spite of
rich tool suites provided by current EDA
platforms, YAP knowledge is largely in
engineers’ brains or in disparate documentation; 
they have not been systematically extracted
neither stored in EDA system. In this thesis, we
use symptom identification as the conveyor
problem, the research focuses on mechanism
designs to extract EDA tool application
procedure and fault symptom identification
knowledge for sharing and reusing to achieve
more effective yield analysis. Specific design
challenges are as follows: (1) How to provide
applicable EDA tools by engineers’ specified 
analysis purposes? (2) How to extract implicit
engineers’ preferences of EDA tool 
application procedures from currently
available data? (3) How to capture and store
perceived graphic symptoms by engineers and
store them?
There are two parts of YAPs: (i) fault
symptom identification, which is observations
of suspected problematic data by engineers
from output reports of EDA tools and (ii) root
cause diagnosis, which is hypothesis of causes
of yield deviation like abnormal equipment.
Over the problem domain of fault symptom
identification in semiconductor yield analysis,
this thesis aims at mechanism designs for
extracting the knowledge of engineers’ 
purpose-driven analysis processes of applying
EDA tools and fault symptom identification
knowledge.
2.2. Correlation Analysis between Wafer
Acceptance Test and In-line Data for Process
Control
Effective process control needs a reliable
without requiring extra reporting efforts, a
graphic symptom capturer technique is
designed that enables an engineer to directly
select the symptom pattern he/she perceives
over the graphic charts. The graphic symptom
pattern is then translated into text descriptions
by a design of software interpreter for
knowledge storage and sharing.
The knowledge extraction mechanisms are
integrated and implemented a Service Oriented
Architecture (SOA) based EDA platform to
demonstrate their feasibility. The four main
values of the platform are enhanced by the
knowledge extraction mechanisms as follow:
1. Reuse and sharing of EDA tool procedure
knowledge without extra documentation
efforts,
2. Reduction of cycle time from specified
purpose to identified EDA tool via
URM-based linkage,
3. Extract EDA tool application procedure
knowledge via MCPKE algorithm and
URM, and enhance engineers’ purpose plan 
knowledge extraction,
4. Automatically translate graphic symptoms
which engineers observed to symptom texts
by GSC.
3.2 Mechanism Design of Correlation
Analysis between Wafer Acceptance Test and
In-line Data for Process Control
To solve the multi-model problem, we need
to identify multiple regression models in the
WAT and In-line correlation model. In this
research, we extend the idea of
Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm to
design an algorithm for multi-model
identification. Application of standard EM
algorithm for regression would face further
constraints and challenges: local optimum and
overfitting. To overcome these two challenges,
we design an EM-Based-Regression (EMR)
algorithm as shown in Figure 2.2. The
following two mechanisms are the main ideas
in EMR algorithm. For the local optimal
problem, we use a large of number initial
conditions to find an effective local optimum
and an approximate global optimum. Then
statistical testing is used to evaluate and avoid
the over-fitting problem as far as possible.
To validate the EMR algorithm, we design
some experiments to evaluate whether the
EMR algorithm can solve the local optimum
and overfitting problems or not. We design
three types of ground truth to observe
performance of global optimal approximation.
Then we design statistical metric and compare
performance of these statistical metric and
indices to evaluate statistic significance for
overfitting validation and quantitative results.
In summary, the contributions of this task
are:
i) Hidden Variables Recognition of Better
WAT-In-line Correlation Model for
Feed-Forward Control and Fault Diagnosis:
Enhance explanatory capability of correlation
model used to control device uniformity and
yield diagnosis;
ii) Statistical Identification of Unconsidered
but Significant Factors Effect in WAT-In-line
Correlation Model: Identify hidden variables
effect which may lead to control of wrong
in-line step and ignorance of the key step.
iii) Probabilistic-Based and More Reliable
Algorithm Development of Correlation
Model Construction for Multi-Model
Identification: Apply EM based regression
algorithm to identify multiple regression
models and pattern of hidden variables effect in
the WAT-In-line correlation model;
iv) Empirically Statistical Metric Design for
Overfitting Avoidance and Model Number
Testing: Prevent misleading multi-model and
overfitting in order to receive a robust
correlation model.
3.3 Naming Alignment Mechanism Design for
Semiconductor Wafer-Acceptance-Test Data
Two mechanisms are designed to conquer
these challenges respectively as follow:
i) Establishment of ontology-based WAT
data item naming knowledge model
(WATDIKM):
Ontology-based knowledge representation
mechanism, we adopt first order logic (FOL)
approach because of good logical expression,
and transfer FOL into semantic network (SN)
modeling approach for the purpose of easier
comprehension by engineer. Semantic network
consist of node types, nodes and node links. In
the context of WAT data item naming, nodes
correspond to concepts like WAT measure item,
In our demonstration, we take four products
which include 10 WAT data names per product
as example to demonstrate our mechanism. As
the result, the WAT legacy names of two
products can align to golden name with the
same name description. Other legacy names
cannot align to golden name because of
different WAT data item name descriptions with
golden name. We can verify that WAT legacy
name can align to golden names with the same
name description, and identify that one WAT
data item name represent more than two WAT
data items. In this case, the module constructs
four naming alignment tables. Number of
knowledge alignment table is less than
pair-wise method.
參考文獻
[1] International Technology Roadmap For
Semiconductors 2006, Yield Enhancement
[2] SAS, The SAS Enterprise Intelligence
Platform :http://www.sas.com/technologies/architectu
re/
[3] Yield Dynamics, Yield Management,:
http://www.ydyn.com/products/genesis_enterprise.ht
m
[4] S.-J. Hsu, C,-M. Fan, W.-C. Lin, S.-C. Chiou, “A 
Methodology for On-Demand Engineering Service
with Resource Integration and Reuse at Knowledge
Level,” Proceedings of the 12th Annual International
Conference on Industrial Engineering Theory,
Applications and Practice, Cancun, Mexico, Nov. 4-7,
2007
[5] W. Gaaloul, S. Alaoui, K. Baina, and C. Godart,
“Mining Workflow Patterns through Event-data
Analysis,” Proceedings of the 2005 Symposium on
Applications and the Internet Workshops, , Jan.,2005,
pp. 226- 229.
[6] J.-R. Lee, S.-C. Chang, F.-H. Su, C.-M. Fan, “Service
Oriented Platform Design for Collaborative
Engineering Data Analysis,” Proceedings of 2006
International Symposium on Semiconductor
Manufacturing, San Jose, California, Sept. 25-27,
2007, pp. 245-248.
[7] M. Kloppmann, D. Koenig, F.Leymann, G. Pfau, A.
Rickayzen, C. von Riegen, P. Schmidt, I. Trickovic,
“WS-BPEL Extension for People– BPEL4People,” A
Joint White Paper by IBM and SAP, July, 2005:
https://www.sdn.sap.com/irj/servlet/prt/portal/prtroot/
com.sap.km.cm.docs/library/uuid/cfab6fdd-0501 -00
10 bc82-f5c2414080ed
[8] E. A. Kendal, “Role Modeling for Agent System 
Analysis, Design, and Implementation,” IEEE
Concurrency, 2000.
四、計畫成果自評
本計畫第三年的三項研究皆已透過與業
界合作，實作於以服務導向架構(SOA)為基礎
的平台，使用實務數據進行驗證。研究成果
價值在於1)可重複使用且分享製程整合工程
資料分析的流程與意向知識，減少去尋找工
程資料分析工具的時間，促進工程師良率分
析的效率，2) 發展可靠的晶圓允收測試及線
上量測之資料關係模型，並可使用於前饋控
制及問題診斷，達到可充分描述實際製程之
狀態，並提供建議以調整後段機台參數，3)
自動從已經存在的檔案中萃取晶圓允收測試
資料命名知識，準確的對齊現有的名字到統
一的名字，幫助工程師更容易利用工具分析
晶圓允收測試資料。此外以部分資源進行
engineering chain 與 supply chain 整合的研
究，發表論文如下:
發表論文
P1. J.-R. Lee, S.-C. Chang, F.-H. Su, C.-M. Fan,
“Service Oriented Platform Design for Colaborative 
Engineering Data Analysis,” Proceedings of 2006
2007 International Sympo- sium on Semiconductor
Manufacturing, San Jose, California, Sept. 25-27,
2007, pp. 245-248.
P2. F.-H. Su, S.-C. Chang, Y.-J. Tsai, C.-Y. Lu, C.-M
Fan,“Knowledge Engineering of Analysis Tool 
Application Processes for Yield Symptom
Identification,” Proceedings of 2008 International
Symposium on Semiconductor Manufacturing, Tokyo,
Oct., 2008.
P3. S.-C. Chang, S.-S. Su , K.-J. Chen, “Priority Mix 
Planning For Cycle-Time Differentiate Semiconductor
Manufacturing” Proceedings of the 2008 Winter
Simulation Conference, Miami, Florida, Dec., 2008.
P4. F.-H. Su, S.-C. Chang, C.-M. Fan, Y.-J. Tsai, J.
Jheng, C.-P. Kao, C.-Y. Lu “A Novel Ontology-based
Knowledge Engineering Approach for Yield Symptom
Identification in Semiconductor Manufacturing”
Proceedings of the 2009 IEEE Conference on
Automation Science and Engineering, Bangalore, India,
August 22-25, 2009.
P5. S.-C. Chang, B.-J. Liao, Yu-Ting Kao, A. Chen
“Priority Cycle Time Behavior Modeling for
Semiconductor Fabs,” SIMUL 2009, Porto, Portugal,
Sept., 2009.
P6. F.-H. Su, “Knowledge Engineering for 
Semiconductor Yield Analysis: Tool Application and
Fault Symptom Identification,” Master Thesis,
Electrical Engineering Department, National Taiwan
University, Taipei, Taiwan, June 2008.
P7. W.-C. Lin, “Research on Designing SOP Based
Composite- purpose Planning for Effective Yield
Analysis Procedure,”Master Thesis, Graduate Institute
of Industrial Engineering, National Taiwan University,
Taipei, Taiwan, June 2008.
P8. R.-H. Chen, “Naming Alignment Design for 
Semiconductor Wafer-Acceptance-Test Data,” Master
Figure 3.1 WATDINKM for WAT Naming Alignment
Figure 3.2 WAT Data Item Naming Alignment
Mechamism
Figure 4-1 Architecture of the Yield Analysis
Management Platform
Appendix I:
College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering, SUNY Albany, NY, USA
CNSE's Albany NanoTech complex is the most advanced research facility of its kind at
any university in the world: a $4.2 billion, 450,000-square-foot complex that attracts
corporate partners from around the world. CNSE houses the only fully-integrated, 300mm
wafer, computer chip pilot prototyping and demonstration line within 65,000 square feet of
Class 1 capable cleanrooms. More than 2,000 scientists, researchers, engineers, students, and
faculty work on site at CNSE's Albany NanoTech complex, including IBM, AMD, SONY,
Toshiba, Qimonda, Honeywell, ASML, Applied Materials, Tokyo Electron, and Freescale. An
expansion currently underway will increase the size of the complex to over 800,000 square
feet, including over 80,000 square feet of Class 1 cleanroom space by mid-2009.
About CNSE
1. Total investment to date: $4.2 billion
2. Total facility space to date: 450,000 square feet
800,000 square feet (end of 2008)
3. Total 300mm Wafer, Class 1 Capable, Cleanroom Space:
65,000 square feet
80,000 square feet (end of 2008)
4. Total employees onsite: More than 2,000
Over 2,500 (by mid-2009)
5. Total global corporate partners to date: 250
6. Wafer fabrication:
i. NanoFab 300 East:
 Projected completion: 1st Quarter 2009
 Cost: $150 million
 250,000 square foot office, classroom and laboratory building
 100,000 square foot building housing 15,000 square feet of cleanroom space
ii. NanoFab 300 North:
 Completed: December 2005
 Cost: $175 million
 228,000 square feet total
 35,000 square feet cleanroom/clean subfab space
iii. NanoFab 300 South:
 Completed: March 2004
 Cost: $50 million
 150,000 square feet total
 32,000 square feet cleanroom space
iv. NanoFab 200 (CESTM):
 Completed: June 1997
 Cost: $16.5 million
 70,000 square feet total
 4,000 square feet cleanroom space
"Pilot manufacturing" is provided by the NanoFab 200, and an array of state-of-the-art
which will manage 5 research centers at top-flight research universities across
New York.
o SEMATECH coordinates and oversees next-generation research, development
and commercialization programs in lithography, interconnects, and metrology,
among others, while managing global reach and influence through various
program partnerships around the world in emerging nanotechnology-driven
applications such as nanobiotechnology and sustainable energy.
o International SEMATECH hosts and administers over 12 centers and consortia,
including the EUV Resist Test Center, EUV Mask Blank Development Center,
EUV Process Development Center, Alternative Lithography Technologies
Center, 3D Interconnect Center, Advanced Metrology Center, the Universal
Nanoelectronics Institute for Technology and Education, and the New York
Alliance for Advanced Science and Technology. Examples of technical
programs include:
 193i: Assess extensibility of immersion beyond 45 nm half-pitch, by
improving fluids, lens materials, and resists.
 EUV: Prepare EUV infrastructure for insertion at 32 nm half-pitch
technology generation, using new micro-exposure and full field tools at
resist test centers; work toward defect-free mask blanks.
 3D: Pursue wafer-to-wafer and die-to-wafer integration by
roadmapping technology options, developing unit processes and
metrology, and demonstrating functionality and reliability.
 Metrology: Focus on the invention, research, development, and
application of measurement methods for advanced technologies, with
expanded programs in advanced microscopy, and metrology for CMOS
and nanotechnology applications.
o International SEMATECH first took root at CNSE in 2002, with the
establishment of a $400-million, next-generation 300mm R&D center at
CNSE's Albany NanoTech complex. To support the program, New York
State contributed substantial funding along with International SEMATECH and
its member companies, including IBM, with initial project research aimed at
R&D in the area of advanced lithography infrastructure for extreme ultraviolet
(EUV) lithography, which is crucial for computer chip manufacturing
technology in the future because technical advances are expected to cause
present day manufacturing methods to become obsolete for the most advanced
chips.
 Center for Nanoscale Lithography
 Applied Materials R&D Center
 TEL Technology Center, America R&D Center
 The International Renewable Energy Technology Institute (IRETI)
In addition, educational opportunities for CNSE students working on research and
development of next generation technologies with faculty and industry researchers are
provided under a variety of academic programs and centers, including:
 Center for Advanced Interconnect Science and Technology (CAIST)
 Center for Advanced Technology in Nanomaterials and Nanoelectronics (CATN2)
 Center for Sustainable Ecosystem Nanotechnologies
IMEC (Inter-university Microelectronics Centre), Louvine, Belgium
IMEC (Interuniversity Microelectronics Centre) is a European’s largest micro- and
nanoelectronics research center located in Leuven, Belgium with affiliated laboratories
throughout Flanders. IMEC focuses on next generation electronics research, three to ten years
ahead of industrial needs. The organization employs approximately 1,700 people.IMEC’s 
research is applied in better healthcare, smart electronics, sustainable energy, and safer
transport. In 2007, IMEC's revenue (P&L) was 244.5 million euro.
IMEC's research bridges the gap between fundamental research at universities and
technological development in industry. Its unique processing and system know-how,
intellectual property portfolio, state-of-the-art infrastructure and its strong and worldwide
network position IMEC as a key partner for shaping the technology for future systems.
Mission
To perform R&D, ahead of industrial needs by 3 to 10 years, in nanoelectronics,
nanotechnology, design methods and technologies for ICT systems. This mission is backed by
3 trends in the electronics industry:
1. More Moore–Scaling electronic devices and circuits will continue into the next decade;
it wil be driven by Moore’s Law, folowing the technologies described in the 
International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors (ITRS). CMOS will remain the
main semiconductor technology platform in the foreseeable future.
2. More than Moore –Current CMOS processes can be used to develop new micro- and
nanodevices with extended functionality such as sensors, MEMS, or NEMS. More than
Moore technologies include heterogeneous integration, advanced packaging, 3D
integration, biomedical electronics, autonomous embedded appliances, and
photovoltaics.
3. Convergence of More Moore and More than Moore –Scientists envision an increasing
need to combine higher performance (More Moore) with complex and extended
functionalities (More than Moore). This convergence will impact IC design, processing,
integration, and packaging. Further scaling will create new opportunities for
heterogeneous integration.
Campus
The IMEC campus has 24,400m2 of office space, laboratories, training facilities, and
technical support rooms:
1. two cleanrooms that run a semi-industrial operation:
i. The main cleanroom compatible with latest 300mm wafer standards, supports the
More Moore research on (sub-) 32nm process technology.
 Ballroom type of cleanroom, 3,200m² class 1,000 area, of which 2,200m² rests
on a vibration-controlled waffle table.
 Silicon pilot line for (sub-)32nm CMOS processing on 300mm wafers.
 Unique lithography cluster built around ASML equipment.
 Advanced equipment and preproduction tools.
 Semi-industrial operation
 Process monitoring, short cycle time.



