ferromagnetic NiFe and antiferromagnetic Cr2O3 
thicknesses on the exchange bias field Hex was 
observed. The coexistence of in-plane as well as out-
of-plane exchange biases was observed in a 
NiFe/annealed Cr2O3 /Al2O3(0001) bilayer. This 
clearly indicates that by using the single crystal 
Al2O3(0001) substrate together with a rapid thermal 
annealing process, the antiferromagnet Cr2O3 spins 
are tilted toward the out-of-plane direction and thus 
exhibit this unusual exchange bias behavior. 
In NiFe (10 nm)/Mn(25 nm) bilayers, while the bottom 
Mn layers bombarded by different Ar ion-beam energies 
(VEH from 70 to 150 V) retained the same structure, 
significant differences in exchange bias were 
observed when in contact with a top NiFe layer. The 
dependence of the exchange bias field, Hex, with 
increasing VEH suggests strongly that the Ar ion-beam 
bombardment process may create uncompensated Mn spins 
(Hex enhancement) or increase the spin misalignment 
in ferromagnet (FM)/antiferromagnet (AF) interfaces 
(Hex decrease), depending on the energy used. A 
schematic FM/AF spin structure was proposed to 
explain this unusual exchange bias behavior. 
In [Pt/Co]/NiO thin films, we measure a perpendicular 
exchange bias field that changes polarity with Co 
thickness and find that with 2 nm of Co the 
perpendicular magnetic anisotropy is no longer 
present. Further evidence of the change in the Co 
layers preferred orientation is offered by zero field 
cooled susceptometry, where the low temperature 
susceptibility is negative for thin Co layers (0.9–
1.2 nm) and becomes positive with increasing Co 
thickness (1.5–2.0 nm). These results indicate that 
the Co and NiO interface moments are coupled strongly 
and that there is competition between Pt/Co and Co/Ni 
at the film layer interfaces that sets the overall 
anisotropy from perpendicular and parallel 
configurations. 
英文關鍵詞： exchange bias, ion-beam sputtering, magnetic thin 
films 
 
2目錄
中文摘要及關鍵詞…………………………………………………………………………….3
英文摘要及關鍵詞…………………………………………………………………………….4
報告內容(第一年)……………………………………………………………………………...5
參考文獻(第一年)…………………………………………………………………………….11
報告內容(第二年)…………………………………………………………………………….14
參考文獻(第二年)…………………………………………………………………………….17
報告內容(第三年)…………………………………………………………………………….19
參考文獻(第三年)…………………………………………………………………………….21
4(二)英文摘要
Keywords: exchange bias, ion-beam sputtering, magnetic thin films.
In this study, we report (1) the exchange bias effects of NiFe/Cr-oxide bilayers, (2) the correlation
between the ion-beam bombardment and the exchange bias magnetism in NiFe (10 nm)/Mn(25 nm) bilayers,
and (3) the dependence of the magnetism from perpendicular magnetic anisotropy with Co thickness in (Pt/Co)
multilayers coupled to a NiO layer.
Results have shown that NiFe/ Cr-oxide bilayers exhibited an exchange bias loop shift when field cooled
to 5 K. A strong linear dependence of ferromagnetic NiFe and antiferromagnetic Cr2O3 thicknesses on the
exchange bias field Hex was observed. The coexistence of in-plane as well as out-of-plane exchange biases
was observed in a NiFe/annealed Cr2O3 /Al2O3(0001) bilayer. This clearly indicates that by using the single
crystal Al2O3(0001) substrate together with a rapid thermal annealing process, the antiferromagnet Cr2O3
spins are tilted toward the out-of-plane direction and thus exhibit this unusual exchange bias behavior.
In NiFe (10 nm)/Mn(25 nm) bilayers, while the bottom Mn layers bombarded by different Ar ion-beam
energies (VEH from 70 to 150 V) retained the same structure, significant differences in exchange bias were
observed when in contact with a top NiFe layer. The dependence of the exchange bias field, Hex, with
increasing VEH suggests strongly that the Ar ion-beam bombardment process may create uncompensated Mn
spins (Hex enhancement) or increase the spin misalignment in ferromagnet (FM)/antiferromagnet (AF)
interfaces (Hex decrease), depending on the energy used. A schematic FM/AF spin structure was proposed to
explain this unusual exchange bias behavior.
In [Pt/Co]/NiO thin films, we measure a perpendicular exchange bias field that changes polarity with Co
thickness and find that with 2 nm of Co the perpendicular magnetic anisotropy is no longer present. Further
evidence of the change in the Co layers preferred orientation is offered by zero field cooled susceptometry,
where the low temperature susceptibility is negative for thin Co layers (0.9–1.2 nm) and becomes positive
with increasing Co thickness (1.5–2.0 nm). These results indicate that the Co and NiO interface moments are
coupled strongly and that there is competition between Pt/Co and Co/Ni at the film layer interfaces that sets
the overall anisotropy from perpendicular and parallel configurations.
614. K.-W. Lin, M.-R. Wei, and J.-Y. Guo, 2009, “Cooling field and ion-beam bombardment effects on
exchange bias behavior in NiFe/(Ni,Fe)O bilayers”, accepted for publication in J. Nanosci. and
Nanotechnol. Vol. 9, no. 3, 2023 (SCI).
15. K.-W. Lin and J.-Y. Guo, 2008, “Tuning In-plane and out-of-plane exchange biases in NiFe/Cr-oxide
bilayers”, J. Appl. Phys., Vol. 104, no. 12 , 123913 (SCI).
16. K.-W. Lin, J.-Y. Guo, T.-J. Chen, H. Ouyang, E.Vass, and J. van Lierop, 2008, “Correlating exchange bias
with magnetic anisotropy in ion-beam bombarded NiFe/Mn-oxide bilayers”, J. Appl. Phys. Vol. 104, no.
12 ,123908.
17. K.-W. Lin, J.-Y. Guo, H.-Y. Liu, H. Ouyang, D.-H. Wei, and J. van Lierop, 2008, “Anomalous exchange
bias behavior in ion-beam bombarded NiCo/(Ni,Co)O bilayers”, J. Appl. Phys. Vol. 103, no. 7, 07C105
(SCI).
8argon ion beam onto a commercial Ni80Fe20 (at%) or a Cr target surface while the End-Hall source was used
to clean or in situ bombard the substrate during deposition with mixture of O2/Ar gas that was varied from 8%
to 26% O2/Ar. No external field was applied during deposition. Bottom Cr-oxide layers were annealed at
700 °C for 10 minutes using a rapid thermal annealing (RTA) method and then capped with the top NiFe layer.
A JEOL (JEM-2010) transmission electron microscope (TEM) operating at 200 kV was used for the
microstructural analysis. Low temperature magnetic measurements were performed in a commercial SQUID
magnetometer (Quantum Design MPMS-7) where the bilayer thin-film was 20 kOe field cooled either parallel
or perpendicular to the film plane from 300 K down to 5 K. The exchange bias field, Hex, represents the field
shift of a hysteresis loop with respect to zero.
III. Results and Discussion
The microstructure of the bottom Cr-oxide (26%O2/Ar) layer was characterized by TEM, as shown in Fig.
1. The polycrystalline film (grain sizes ranging from 5 nm to 15 nm) consisted of the hcp structure with the
lattice constant a~ 5.23 Å and c~ 10.97 Å, as determined by electron diffraction patterns in inset of Fig. 1(a).
To study the FM/AF exchange bias behavior, the Cr-oxide layer was capped with the NiFe layer, as shown by
the cross-sectional TEM in Fig. 1(b). The NiFe(10 nm)/Cr-oxide(20 nm) bilayers exhibit a smooth interface
with surface roughness less than 2 nm.
To gain insight into the origin of the exchange bias, hysteresis loops of NiFe(10 to 50
nm)/Cr-oxide(20nm) bilayers were measured at 5 K after a +20 kOe FC process. The results of these
measurements are shown in Fig. 2. An asymmetric hysteresis loop with the exchange field, Hex~ -35 Oe was
observed in NiFe(20 nm)/Cr-oxide(20 nm) bilayers [Fig. 2(a)]. In contrast, increasing the NiFe thickness to 50
nm, a much more square hysteresis loop with a smaller Hex~ -15 Oe was found in NiFe(50nm)/Cr-oxide(20nm)
bilayers [Fig. 2(a)]. Further, the dependence of Hc and Hex has shown that the exchange field decreases
linearly with increasing NiFe thicknesses [Fig. 2(b)]. The magnitude of Hex versus 1/tNiFe is shown in the inset
of Fig. 2(b). A deviation of Hex versus 1/tNiFe from linearity is observed. It is known [1,2] that the exchange
bias varies as H(1/tFM)n, where tFM is the thickness of the ferromagnetic layer and the exponent n (=1~2) is
dependent on the grain size and the thickness for the ferromagnetic layer [28-30]. The inverse proportionality
between Hex and the FM thickness (Hex  1/tFM) indicates that exchange bias is an interface effect [9].
However, this relation will be no longer valid if the FM layer becomes too thin (usually a few nm), due to the
discontinuous layer formed in this thickness range [1]. In our NiFe/Cr-oxide bilayers, first, the effects of NiFe
grain sizes affecting the Hex can be ruled out since the same grain size distribution (5 nm to 15 nm) was
obtained in the top NiFe layer with different thicknesses (10 nm to 50 nm), as determined by both the bright-
and dark-field TEM micrographs. Secondly, the NiFe thicknesses are continuous in our NiFe/Cr-oxide
bilayers, as revealed by the cross-sectional TEM image (eg., Fig. 1(b)). Therefore, the analysis in the film
continuity as well as the grain size distribution conducted by TEM leads us to conclude that the deviation of
Hex versus 1/tNiFe from linearity is likely due to the interfacial inhomogeneity created by the ion-beam
bombardment process, in agreement with our previous work in NiFe/(Ni,Fe)O bilayers [31].
To understand the dependence of the exchange bias on AF thicknesses, NiFe(10 nm)/Cr-oxide(10 nm to
50 nm) bilayers were fabricated, with results shown in Fig. 3. As expected, NiFe(10 nm)/Cr-oxide(5 nm)
bilayers exhibit a shift in the hysteresis loop (Hex~ -25 Oe), as shown in Fig. 3(a). In addition, both Hc (~ 125
Oe) and Hex (~ -75 Oe) as well as the asymmetry in the hysteresis loop were found to increase in bilayers with
a thickest AF Cr-oxide layer (50 nm). Further, the magnitude of Hc and Hex also increases linearly with
10
sudden drop in Hc (~ 50 Oe) and Hex (~ -5 Oe) was found in NiFe/Cr-oxide (annealed 8%O2/Ar) bilayers, as
shown in Fig. 4(a). The structural phase transformation due to annealing (Figs. 5(b) and 5(d)) gives rise to the
sudden drop in Hex and Hc since AF Cr structures have been transformed into distorted spinel Cr3O4 structures
thus decreasing the exchange coupling strength between AF and FM interfaces.
To probe the exchange bias arising from different type of substrates, NiFe/Cr-oxide (26%O2/Ar) bilayers
were deposited on the Al2O3(0001) single crystal substrate. The 5 K hysteresis loops of NiFe/Cr2O3 bilayers
with the applied magnetic field (FC in +20 kOe from 300 K down to 5 K) either parallel or perpendicular to
the film plane are shown in Fig. 6. The NiFe/Cr2O3/Al2O3(0001) bilayers exhibit a smaller in-plane Hex//~ -10
Oe [Fig. 6(a)] whereas no out-of-plane exchange bias (Hex~ 0 Oe) was found in the out-of-plane direction, as
shown in Fig. 6(b). This indicates the spins between FM NiFe and AF Cr2O3 couple ferromagnetically in the
film plane, resulting in the negative exchange bias. Surprisingly, an out-of-plane exchange bias with Hex~ -80
Oe [Fig. 6(b)] was observed in NiFe/annealed Cr2O3/Al2O3(0001) bilayers while maintaining a significant
Hex//~ -30 Oe in the in-plane direction [Fig. 6(a)]. This coexistence of in-plane and out-of-plane exchange
biases can be attributed to the canted Cr2O3 spins induced by the Al2O3(0001) single crystal substrate through
a rapid thermal annealing process, as compared to those of NiFe/Cr2O3 bilayers deposited on the SiO2
substrate (see above). Similar results (coexistence of in-plane and out-of-plane Hex) have been found in our
previous work in [Pt/Co]/NiO multilayers [27] where the mechanism is ascribed to the canted FM spins
(depending on the FM thicknesses) coupled to the AF spins. However, the exchange bias mechanism in the
present system of NiFe/annealed Cr2O3 bilayers is likely from canted AF Cr2O3 spins (due to annealing)
coupling to the FM spins, as described below. Recently, J. Dho and co-workers [18] have reported the
correlation of the exchange interaction in NiFe/epitaxial Cr2O3 bilayers with the AF spin configuration where
bilayers were deposited on the Al2O3 single crystal substrate with different orientations. They have found that
a significant exchange bias only occurs on certain Cr2O3 crystal planes with uncompensated surfaces, and the
out-of-plane component of the AF spin dominates, creating large exchange bias fields. In our NiFe/annealed
Cr2O3/Al2O3(0001) bilayers, the significant in-plane and out-of-plane exchange bias indicates the following
roles of annealing on the bottom AF Cr2O3 layer: (1) improving the Cr2O3 crystallinity and thus resulting in
the enhanced Hex//, and (2) reorienting the AF Cr2O3 spins (by using the Al2O3(0001) substrate) toward the
out-of-plane direction and therefore giving rise to the significant out-of-plane Hex. Thus, a tunable exchange
bias in these NiFe/Cr2O3 bilayers has been achieved by combining the ion-beam bombardment technique
together with the Al2O3(0001) substrate through a rapid thermal annealing process.
IV. Conclusion
We have systematically studied the exchange bias behavior of NiFe/Cr-oxide bilayers in terms of FM and
AF thicknesses, different percent oxygen contents, the Al2O3(0001) substrate, and the annealing process.
The exchange bias field decreases linearly with increasing NiFe thicknesses whereas it increases linearly with
increasing antiferromagnetic Cr-oxide thicknesses. In addition, the exchange bias field decreasing with
increasing %O2/Ar reflects the ion-beam bombardment effect in NiFe/Cr-oxide (%O2/Ar) bilayers. The
unusual exchange bias behavior (either a decreased or an enhancement in Hex) in NiFe/annealed Cr-oxide
bilayers is associated with the phase transformation or the improved crystallinity due to annealing. Further,
the coexistence of both in-plane and out-of-plane exchange biases (created by annealing the bottom Cr2O3
layer deposited on the Al2O3(0001) substrate) is attributed to the canted AF Cr2O3 spins coupling to the FM
NiFe spins.
12
[30] M. D. Stiles and R. D. McMichael, Phys. Rev. B 63, 064405 (2001).
[31] K.-W. Lin, M.-R. Wei, and J.-Y. Guo, J. Nanosci. Nanotechnol., in press (2008), doi:
10.1166/jnn.2008.382.
[32] D. Mauri, H. C. Siegmann, P. S. Bagus, and E. Kay, J. Appl. Phys. 62, 3047 (1987).
[33] M. Ali, C. H. Marrows, M. Al-Jawad, B. J. Hickey, A. Mistra, U. Nowak, and K. D. Usadel, Phys. Rev. B
68, 214420 (2003).
[34] K. Takano, R. H. Kodama, A. E. Berkowitz, W. Cao, and G. Thomas, Phys. Rev. Lett. 79, 1130 (1997).
[35] A. P. Malozemoff, J. Appl. Phys. 63, 3874 (1988).
[36] M. Finazzi, Phys. Rev. B 69, 064405 (2004).
[37] K.-W Lin, J.-Y. Guo, T.-J. Chen, H. Ouyang, E. Vass, and J. van Lierop, J. Appl. Phys. 104, 123908
(2008).
[38] B. Kagerer, Ch. Binek, and W. Kleemann, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. 217, 139 (2000).
14
Second year: NiFe/Mn bilayers
I. Introduction
Mn-oxide nanoparticles have been studied extensively due to their possible applications in
spintronic-based devices. For example, MnO/Mn3O4 nanoparticles, where MnO is an AF and Mn3O4 a
ferrimagnet, exhibit exchange bias properties that are attributed to the uncompensated spins on the surface of
MnO nanoparticles [4] and finite size effects [5]. However, the metallic AF Mn, with a Neel temperature, TN ~
100 K, between MnO (TN~ 118 K) and Mn3O4 (Tc~ 42 K), when used an FM/AF bilayer system, has not been
studied systematically. Our previous work in the NiFe/Mn-oxide bilayers [6] has shown that the large
magnetic anisotropy of Mn gives rise to stronger exchange coupling and resultant exchange bias over MnO or
Mn3O4 when in contact with the NiFe layer. In this study, we use a pure metallic Mn layer and bombard the
Mn surface to study the effects of Ar ion-beam bombardment on the Mn surface on the exchange bias
behavior.
Ion-beam bombardment used during film deposition [7,8] involves complex processes such as dynamic
oxidation [9,10], structural expansion and compression [6], reordering of atoms [11], and alloying [12],
depending on the gas species and energies used. Our previous work in NiCo/(Ni,Co)O bilayers [11] has
shown that positive and negative exchange bias can be created by energetic Ar ion-beam bombardment on the
(Ni,Co)O surface. In this study, we find that in NiFe (10 nm)/Mn (25 nm) bilayer systems made with Mn
deposited using different ion bombardment energies controlled via the End Hall voltage (VEH), that under the
same field cooling procedure the exchange bias field varied with VEH. These results provide new insights into
the effects of ion-beam bombardment on the surface spin structures of the Mn layer and the exchange bias
when the Mn layer is coupled to a NiFe layer. Measurements indicate that the exchange bias effects are
strongly influenced by the surface modified Mn layer. For example, the largest Hex in a NiFe/Mn (VEH= 70 V)
bilayer is likely due to uncompensated AF Mn spins that have been created by a moderate ion-beam
bombardment process.
II. Experimental procedure
A dual ion-beam deposition technique [13] was used to prepare the NiFe (10 nm)/Mn (25 nm) bilayers on
a SiO2 substrate. A Kaufman source (800 V, 7.5 mA) was used to focus an argon ion-beam onto a commercial
Ni80Fe20 (at%) or Mn target surface. Before capping with a NiFe layer, the surface of the Mn layer was
bombarded by Ar ions using an End-Hall source (VEH) that ranged from 70 to 150 V for 5 minutes to create
different surface microstructures. No external field was applied during deposition. A JEOL (JEM-2010)
transmission electron microscope (TEM) operating at 200 kV was used for the microstructural analysis.
Magnetic measurements were performed in a commercial SQUID magnetometer (Quantum Design MPMS-7)
where the bilayers were field cooled (FC) from 300 K down to 5 K with the magnetic field (20 kOe) applied
parallel to the film plane. In these measurements the exchange bias field, Hex, is defined as the shift of the
hysteresis loop along the field axis with respect to zero.
III. Results and Discussion
TEM characterized microstructures of NiFe/Mn bilayers prepared with different Ar ion-beam bombardment
energies (VEH= 70 V to 150 V) on the surface of the bottom Mn layer are shown in Fig. 1. The grain sizes of
16
postulate that the origin of the asymmetric hysteresis loop in our NiFe/Mn (VEH= 70 V) bilayer is due to the
misalignment [16] between FM NiFe and AF Mn moments and tilted exchange anisotropies [15], created by
the Ar ion-beam bombardment on the Mn surface. This in turn may create uncompensated AF Mn spins and
thus give rise to the Hex enhancement in the NiFe/Mn (VEH= 70 V) bilayer. In contrast, the drop in Hex with
VEH between 100 V and 150 V is likely due to the changing interfacial alignment of the Mn spins with the
NiFe spins caused by ion-beam bombardment [13].
To correlate the exchange bias with the Ar ion-beam bombardment on the surface of the Mn layer, the
dependencies of Hc and Hex on VEH are shown in Fig. 3. It can be seen that the 5 K Hex decreases with
increasing VEH (between 70 V and 150 V) under a 20 kOe FC process. However, the magnitude of Hex (~ -300
Oe) in a NiFe/Mn (VEH= 0 V, i.e., unbombarded) bilayer is smaller than that in a NiFe/Mn (VEH= 70 V)
bilayer (Hex~ - 400 Oe). The inset of Fig. 3 (left panel) shows the simulated spin structures of the NiFe/Mn
(VEH= 0 V) bilayer using Landau-Lifshitz-Gilbert (LLG) [17,18] software. The NiFe/Mn bilayer with the
dimension of 12012012 nm3 (40406 cell3) was used. The spin structures near the interface between NiFe
and Mn can be obtained by applying the anisotropy energies (K) and exchange stiffness constants (Aij) of
NiFe [19] and Mn [6], respectively. The preliminary results have shown that in the unbombarded Mn layer
(VEH= 0 V), compensated AF Mn spins aligned parallel to the interface was observed (left panel, the inset of
Fig. 3), and this Mn component coupled to the top FM NiFe layer, resulting in the measured exchange bias
loop shift. Further investigations towards understanding the effects of the amount of interfacially coupled
spins and their respective anisotropies on the total film spin structure and the spin distribution are in progress.
We also propose the following schematic Mn spin alignments modified by the Ar ion-beam bombardment to
explain the trend in Hex versus VEH. Amongst all samples, the largest Hex (~ -400 Oe) occurred in the
NiFe/Mn bilayers with the smallest VEH (70 V) which is likely due to uncompensated Mn spins created by the
moderate ion-beam bombardment, whereas the decreased Hex with increasing VEH (100V to 150V) is ascribed
to the tilted spins (right panel, the inset of Fig. 3) and the misaligned interfacial spin between NiFe and Mn,
thus reducing the coupling strength when in contact with the top NiFe layer. These results are consistent with
those obtained in our previous work in the NiFe/(Ni,Fe)O bilayers [13] where ion-beam bombardment
changed the spin configurations, thus influence the exchange bias behavior.
IV. Conclusion
The dependence of the exchange bias magnetism on the interface microstructure in NiFe/Mn bilayers
was investigated. Microstructural characterization has shown that different ion-beam bombardment energies
(VEH from 70 V to 150 V) on the surface of the Mn layer result in the same -Mn layer structure. However,
striking differences in exchange bias effects reflect modified Mn surface spin structures created by Ar
ion-beam bombardment. The asymmetric hysteresis loop shapes can be attributed to the tilted anisotropies that
originated from the AF-layer-induced interfacial magnetic frustration due to ion-beam bombardment. Our
results indicate that the moderate ion-beam bombardment on the surface of the Mn layer may create the
uncompensated Mn spins and thus enables the enhanced Hex in the NiFe/Mn (VEH= 70 V) bilayer. Further, the
misalignment of spins between the FM/AF interface due to higher ion-beam bombardment energy resulted in
the drop in Hex.
18
20
alloy (H~−5.27 eV/Co–Pt atom pair) [9], and in agreement with our recent work [8] where the minimum Co
thickness for a superlattice structure of Pt/Co was found to be _1.2 nm. Presumably, the shift to a well defined
superlattice configuration between 0.9 and 1.2 nm Co will impact the PMA since it should alter the parallel
and perpendicular magnetocrystalline anisotropies [10].
Figure 2 shows the temperature dependence of the ZFC in-plane 100 Oe magnetization _MZFC_ for the
Pt (3 nm)/Co (x nm)4/NiO films. While PMA is due to the Pt film layer coupled to the Co [8] the FM/AF
interface is between the Co and NiO. Therefore, the Co interface momentsshould exhibit the effects of
competition between perpendicular and parallel configurations from neighboring Pt and NiO layers, in
addition to any local anisotropy effects due to variations in the Co and NiO interfacial microstructure e.g., Fig.
1. The initial M at 10 K in 100 Oe after ZFCdemonstrates the effects of competition between parallel and
perpendicular orientations for the Co moments from the Pt and NiO (inset Fig. 2). The measurements show
that Co moments are likely oriented along the NiO planes when the Colayer thickness is more than 1.2 nm as
NiO exhibits AF domains that are composed of FM Ni sheets that are antiferromagnetically coupled through
superexchange [11] resulting in an in-plane magnetization that orients readily with the application of the
measuring field. With thinner Co layers (~1.5 nm) in the multilayer, the films average magnetization is
aligned opposite to that of the measuring field, and this is probably from the perpendicular anisotropy between
the Co and Pt overwhelming the in-plane anisotropy between Co and Ni causing more interfacial Co moments
to cant against the applied field. Intermixing between the Ni and Co further weakens Co–Ni coupling in the
0.9 nm Co thick multilayer system, resulting in the most negative ZFC susceptibility (=M/H). In addition,
when the Co thickness was below 1.5 nm (x=0.9 and 1.2 nm in Fig. 2), around 100 K, M became positive as
the thermal energy was enough to rotate the interfacial Pt/Co crystallites into the applied field direction. The
10 nm NiO nanocrystallites in a 20 nm thick film blocked at (330 K) in good agreement with previous work
[2] marked by the temperature where ZFC and FC M vs. T scans diverged (not shown). For all the films we
observed the effects of the NiO crystallites becoming unblocked, marked by the change in the slope of M vs. T
at the higher temperatures, with TB’s~ 310, 290, 270, and 240 K for the x=0.9 to 2.0 nm films, respectively.
TB’s Co thickness dependencealso shows a weakening of Co/NiO coupling and concomitant strengthening of
the Pt/Co PMA with Co thickness.
Figure 3 shows the results of 20 kOe field cooling the films and measuring their perpendicular coercivity
(Hc) and exchange bias (Hex) with warming. Hc (T vs. T/TB) solid line in Fig. 3 is the trend exhibited
independent of Co layer thickness. Hc(T) is from coherent domain rotation (commensurate with the
nanocrystallite film microstructure) from a uniaxial anisotropy dominating the rotation process, in agreement
with the observed symmetric hysteresis loops [6]. There is a marked difference in the exchange bias behavior
with Co thickness. For the 0.9 nm thick Co layered film (Fig. 3) we measured typical negative exchange bias
loop shifts that indicate that the Co moments are coupled antiferromagnetically to the NiO interfacial
moments [12] Interdiffusion of Co and Ni at the interface in this film system results in strong competition
between the Pt/Co PMA and Co/Ni coupling (shown by the MZFC(T) behavior, so that PMA is present but
mediated by Co/Ni AF coupling, resulting in negative Hex (T). Surprisingly, with a 1.2 nm Co layer thickness
positive exchange bias is measured, showing a change to PMA with FM coupling [12]. The tug-of-war that
the Co experiences between the Pt/Co interface PMA and the FM orientation of the Ni at the Co/NiO interface
[11] permits a perpendicular anisotropy with FM coupling at the AF/FM interface due to the combination of a
well defined interface (Fig. 1) and thin 1.2 nm Co layers. By 100 K, the thermal energy permits the Pt/Co
22
一、參加會議經過
The 6th Nordi conference was held in Pori, Finland on Oct. 4-5, 2011.
This year’s conference is dedicated to functional magnetic materials, 
magneto-electric materials and spintronics. The conference has brought
together materials specialists and applications designers to share their
views on the future challenges.
The conference topics are covered by sessions including invited speakers
and several researchers talking about their work and poster sessions.
Sessions including subtopics are:
 (1) Spin torque oscillators
 Oscillatory spin wave influence on threshold currents in STNO pairs
 Time resolved study of mode-hopping in spin torque oscillators
 Phase stability in a synchronized double-nanocontact spin torque
oscillator
 High frequency spin torque nano oscillator operation at low fields
 Non-Adlerian transient dynamics destabilizes serial spin-torque
oscillator synchronization
(2) Spin transport
Magnetotransport Properties of Co/Au Nanostructures
 Large-scale solution processable graphene-based thin film devices
 Efficient spin injection into silicon using SiO2/ferromagnet tunnel
contact, demonstrating weak temperature dependence
 (3) Applications
 Optimization of deposition temperature and atmosphere for pulsed
laser deposited Sr2FeMoO6 thin films
二、與會心得
I pay much attention in the related sessions:
Anisotropy control in thin magnetic films
A highly tunable/uniform magnetization tilt angle exchange-coupled
[Co/Pd]-NiFe bilayers
Electric Field Tuning of Magnetic Properties in Multiferroic
The effects of single crystalline substrates and ion-beam bombardment of
exchange-biased NiO/NiFe bilayers
Ko-Wei Lin1*, Bo-Cheng Lai1, Y.-T. Luo2, T.-H. Wu2, and Johan van Lierop3
1Department of Materials Science and Engineering, National Chung Hsing
University, Taichung 402, Taiwan
2Graduate School of Material Science, National Yunlin University of Science and
Technology, Douliu 640, Taiwan
3Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, R3T
2N2, Canada
*kwlin@dragon.nchu.edu.tw
ABSTRACT
When spins at the interface between a ferromagnet (FM) and an antiferromagnet (AF)
couple, a unidirectional anisotropy occurs, resulting in exchange bias [1,2]. Our
previous work on NiFe/NiO bilayers [3] has shown that the exchange bias depends on
the whole AF layer spin structures that have been altered with ion-beam bombardment
during film deposition. Since exchange bias is dominated by interface magnetism, we
wish to identify the dependence of the exchange bias on the interface microstructure
by changing the deposition sequence. In this study, we have shown the effects of 1)
different single crystalline substrates and 2) ion-beam bombardment on exchange-bias
in NiO/NiFe bilayers. Firstly, different substrates showed at room temperature
enhanced coercivities bilayers deposited on single crystalline MgO and Al2O3, as
shown in Fig. 1. However, when field cooling (20 kOe FC) the films to 5 K only the
NiO(20nm)/NiFe(80nm) bilayer grown on a Al2O3 (11-20) substrate exhibited an
enhanced Hc (~ 50 Oe) as well as Hex (~ -25 Oe). Secondly, for different ion-beam
bombardment energies (VEH) at room temperature a both positive and negative Hex
was found in NiO(35nm)/NiFe bilayers, where the polarity of Hex depended on the
energy used for Ar+ bombardment on the NiFe surface, as shown in Fig. 2. The
increased Hc with increasing VEH indicated that the NiFe layer was etched away with
increasing Ar+ bombardment energies. In addition, the changes between magnetic
easy and hard axis after ion-beam bombardment were revealed by their respective
hysteresis loops. This magnetism is different from NiFe/NiO bilayers where the Ar+
bombardment was employed on the AF NiO surfaces [3]. However, at 5 K under a 20
kOe FC process, a largest positive Hex (~ +85 Oe) was observed in NiO/NiFe (VEH=
0V) bilyers. Further, an oscillating Hex (between positive and negative) was found
with increasing VEH, as shown in Fig. 3. The dependence of the exchange bias field,
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/12/26
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 場冷卻及氧含量對鎳鈷/鎳鈷氧化物雙層薄膜之交換偏壓特性研究
計畫主持人: 林克偉
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-005-021-MY3 學門領域: 磁性材料
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
主辦磁性年會、協辦中子應用科學年會、Intermag 2011 工作人員、IUMRSICA 
2011 工作人員、APDSC 2010 工作人員、IEEE 資深會員、APDSC 2010 海報論
文優良獎、IEEE Trans Magn. 國際期刊客座編輯 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
