2行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫期末成果報告
多封包接收與多重輸入輸出的無線網路中的新世代媒體接取控制設
計與排隊理論效能分析
計畫編號: NSC96-2221-E-110-007
執行期間: 96 年 08 月 01 日至 97 年 07 月 31 日
計畫主持人: 高榮鴻 (國立中山大學資訊工程學系)
中文摘要:
在這個研究計畫中，我們利用機率模
型與理論解出經典的樹狀分裂樹演算
法應用於具備同時多封包接收能力的
無線接取網路的真正效能。我們的研
究成果已經於 2008 年發表於 IEEE
Transactions on Mobile Computing
[23]。在一個具備同時多封包接收能
力的無線接取網路中，無線基地台有
可能可以利用一個頻帶、在同一個時
間區間成功地接收並解碼來自不同網
路節點的封包內容。我們使用離散隨
機程序理論推導出在具備同時多封包
接收能力的無線網路中使用樹狀分裂
演算法的網路throughput與很不容易
推導的 average queueing delay 及
average retransmission delay。除
了利用解數學方程式以得到數值解
外，我們也使用電腦模擬來得到一致
的結果。我們的研究成果可以用來進
一步增進無線接取網路的效能。在本
計畫執行期間我們也另外發表了兩篇
IEEE 期刊論文[24][25]。
Abstract:
In this project, we propose an analytical
approach for exact performance
evaluation of the classic tree/stack
splitting algorithm in an
interference-dominating wireless access
network with random traffic and finite
nodes. We have published the work in
IEEE Transactions on Mobile
Computing in 2008 [23]. In an
interference-dominating wireless access
network, a receiver could
simultaneously receive multiple packets
from a variety of transmitters, as long as
the signal-to-interference-plus-noise
ratio exceeds a predetermined threshold.
We use discrete-time Markov chains and
regenerative processes to derive the
throughput curve, the packet blocking
probability, the average system size, and
the average packet delay. We show that
the exact performance of the splitting
algorithm depends on the total number
of nodes in the network. We verify our
numerical results by rigorous
mathematical proof and computer
simulations. Furthermore, we published
two additional IEEE journal papers [24]
4proposed combining polling and a
variant of the splitting algorithm for
contention resolution in a wireless
access network.
Early works on multipacket reception
focus on the capture phenomena. When
two or more nodes transmit
simultaneously, the node with the
strongest signal captures the channel.
The impact of capture on the
performance of slotted ALOHA was
studied in [17] and references therein.
Sidi and Cidon [6] analyzed the
performance of the FCFS algorithm in
channels with capture. They assumed
that there are infinitely many nodes in
the network and concentrated on the
stability and throughput.
Recent works on multipacket reception
focus on the case in which a node could
simultaneously receive/decode two or
more packets from different transmitters.
Chlamtac and Farago [9] studied the
MPR capability provided by multiple
independent collision channels. Shad,
Todd, Kezys, and Litva [11] introduced
dynamic slot allocation for cellular
systems with antenna arrays to utilize
the MPR capability. Zhao and Tong [12]
proposed the MQSR (Multi-Queue
Service Room) protocol for medium
access control in wireless networks with
multi-packet reception. In addition, they
proposed a dynamic queue protocol [14]
that achieves a performance comparable
to that of MQSR with a much lower
computational complexity. Qin and
Berry [13] proposed opportunistic
splitting algorithms based on channel
state information for wireless networks.
They concentrated on the case in which
the base station successfully receives at
most one packet in a time slot. Adireddy
and Tong [15] studied the use of
distributed channel state information for
random access in wireless networks with
multipacket reception. In particular, they
proposed a variant of slotted ALOHA in
which the transmission probability
changes with the channel state. Naware,
Mergen, and Tong [16] studied the effect
of multipacket reception on stability and
delay of slotted ALOHA. Gau [17]
analytically derived the exact value of
the saturation throughput for Slotted
Aloha in an interference-dominating
wireless network. Gau and Chen [18]
proposed the predictive multicast polling
scheme which is a queue-aware medium
access control scheme for wireless
networks with multi-packet reception. In
particular, they derived the throughput,
the packet blocking probability, the
average system size, and the average
packet delay for the predictive multicast
polling scheme.
3 Numerical and Simulation
Results
Details for related analytical results can
be found in [23]. In this section, we
show numerical results based on
6Figure 6: average packet delay, 10 nodes, buffer
size equals two
Table 1: 95% confidence interval for network
throughput, 100 nodes, buffer size equals one
Table 2: 95% confidence interval for network
throughput, 10 nodes, buffer size equals two
4 Conclusion
In this project, we have proposed an
analytical approach for performance
evaluation of the classic tree/stack
splitting algorithm in an
interference-dominating wireless access
network with random traffic and finite
nodes. We have published the work in
IEEE Transactions on Mobile
Computing in 2008 [23]. In an
interference-dominating wireless access
network, a receiver could
simultaneously receive multiple packets
from a variety of transmitters, as long as
the signal-to-interference-plus-noise
ratio exceeds a predetermined threshold.
We have used discrete-time Markov
chains and regenerative processes to
derive the throughput curve, the packet
blocking probability, the average system
size, and the average packet delay. We
have shown that the exact performance
of the splitting algorithm depends on the
total number of nodes in the network.
We have verified our numerical results
by rigorous mathematical proof and
computer simulations. In principle, the
proposed modeling approach could be
extended at the cost of an increase in
computational complexity to analyze the
network performance of the splitting
algorithm when the buffer size is larger
than two. An important direction of
future research is to design
approximation algorithms with lower
computational complexity. Future work
also includes applying the proposed
analytical approach to evaluate the
performance of other cycle-based
medium access control schemes such as
the reservation-based schemes.
Reference
[1] Dimitri Bertsekas and Robert
Gallager, Data Networks, Second
Edition, 1992, Prentice Hall Publication,
