 2
pronouncedly reduced specific surface areas 
ranging from 0.3 to 5.2 m2/g. 
The second part of this study is to 
synthesize monodispersed silica 
microspheres with mean particle sizes of 280, 
450, and 680nm, respectively using Stöber 
method. Centrifugal self-assembly is then 
conducted to investigate the effect of 
experimental variables such as particle size 
and rotational speed of the centrifuge on the 
packing periodicity of the colloidal crystal 
structures. As shown by the UV-visible 
spectroscopy measurements, a strong 
reflection peak at a wavelength of 632nm is 
observed for the periodic colloidal crystal 
structure orderly formed by the silica 
microspheres with particle size of 280 nm at 
2000 rpm of centrifugal speed. Moreover, it 
is also confirmed by scanning electron 
microscope (SEM) that high-quality colloidal 
crystal can indeed be obtained via the 
centrifugal self-assembly of silica 
microspheres with particle sizes of 280, 450, 
and 680nm. Furfuryl alcohol is subsequently 
infiltrated into the interstitial spacings of the 
silica colloidal crystal, which is serving as a 
template, followed by processes of 
polymerization and carbonization. The silica 
colloidal crystal template is then removed by 
hydrofluoric acid (HF) to acquire a 
well-ordered porous structure consisting of 
hexagonal close-packed arrays, with the 
glassy carbon as the backbone and each 
spherical pore surrounded by six adjacent 
similar pores. An inverse opal structure of 
glassy carbon has been prepared. 
Keywords: furfuryl alcohol, glassy carbon, 
self-assembly, colloidal crystal, 
opal, inverse opal 
 
1. Introduction 
1.1. Motivations 
Photonic crystals are referred to as the 
semiconductor of optics. A semiconductor is 
a periodic arrangement of atoms that forms a 
bandgap for electrons therein, the photonic 
crystal is similarly a structure with periodic 
long-range arrangement of low and high 
refractive indices that forms a bandgap for 
photons. In 1987, Yablonovitch [1] and John 
[2] independently proposed this concept. 
They pointed out that in the 
three-dimensional materials with periodic 
dielectric constants, one can generate 
electromagnetic waves with wavelength 
commensurate with the period, which are 
analogous to the matter wave of the electron 
to the atom lattice constant, the behavior of 
the electromagnetic waves in such 
macroscopic arrangement will be like that of 
the electron in the crystal and subject to the 
period, special structure, and dielectric 
constant of the given material. In addition, 
energy band is formed and such periodic 
structure is called a photonic band-gap or a 
photonic crystal. In the bandgap of such 
photonic crystal, photons of a certain 
wavelength or mode are unable to propagate 
in the crystal, leading to a photonic insulator. 
There are numerous ways to prepare 
colloidal crystals, of which the sedimentation 
method [3] was proposed the earliest and is 
by far the most commonly utilized one. 
However, this method is unfavorable due to 
its long processing time. To enable a more 
efficient process, various new ways such as 
centrifugation [4], filtration [5], heat 
convective flow [6], electrophoretic 
deposition [7], and physical confinement [8] 
have been proposed to make colloidal 
crystals. While significant breakthroughs 
were achieved in the colloidal crystal process, 
thanks to the great progress in the 
development of nanotechnology, scientists 
also found that the colloidal crystal cannot 
accomplish effective overlap between the 
photonic bandgap widths along each 
crystallographic orientation since it is 
constrained by the consisting Brillouin zones 
[9] and the collective refractive index of 
colloidal sphere and air, leading to an 
incomplete photonic bandgap. To solve this 
problem and address the essential properties 
required for photonic devices, a new 
structure, known as inverse opal, has been 
developed, which is a peculiar structure 
evolving from the colloidal crystal. Its 
process starts with the colloidal crystal as the 
template and utilizes the filling technique to 
fill the voids between the colloidal spheres 
with materials of specific high refractive 
index, followed then by removal of the 
colloidal crystal template to produce the 
 4
reported by Stöber et al [11]. The flowchart 
of the sample preparation is shown in Fig. 4. 
TEOS and ammonia solutions were 
respectively dissolved in 100 ml ethanol, and 
mixed uniformly by magnetic stirrer at room 
temperature for 10 min. Then the solution 
with ammonia was added into the TEOS 
solution. The volume ratio of ethanol, TEOS, 
and ammonia hydroxide was kept at 
200:12:10 (all in unit of ml). The mixture 
solution was sealed before being placed in a 
water bath, followed then by stirring and 
heating at room temperature to 80 oC, 50 oC 
and room temperature, respectively for 2 h to 
form monodispersed silica particles. A 
dilution of the synthesized silica particles in 
ethanol were taken in order to stop the 
reaction and the silica particles were 
separated from solution by using 
centrifugation. The powders were repeatedly 
washed by ethanol accompanied with 
ultrasonication after centrifugation for 3 
times, followed then by drying at 70 oC. 
Some of the silica powders were then lightly 
ground by mortar and pestle for DLS, Zeta 
potential and SEM analyses. 
 
2.3. Opal self-assembly 
In order to self-assemble the silica 
microspheres on the surface of glass slide, 
the glass slide was first cleaned by clean 
solution consisting of H2O2 and H2SO4 in a 
volume ratio of 1:1. The glass slide was 
immersed into the clean solution for 1 day to 
remove any organics and impurities on the 
surface. After the pretreatment of the slide 
surface, the ordered structure was assembled 
with silica suspensions of different sizes. The 
flowchart of experimental design is shown in 
Fig. 5. Silica powders of 0.02 g was mixed 
uniformly with 67 ml deionized water and 33 
ml ethanol. An ultrasonication operated at 12 
watt was applied to the mix by a high 
frequency homogenizer for 10 min. The 
silica colloidal dispersions were obtained and 
then injected into a cell encircled by a 
U-shaped, optical fiber frame that was 
sandwiched by two glass slides, as shown in 
Fig. 6. The cell was then sealed by adhesives 
and placed into a centrifuge. The centrifugal 
force helped organize the colloidal particles 
into a close-packing particulate structure, and 
the colloidal membranes exhibited iridescent 
color by reflection of visible light. The speed 
of centrifugation was in the range of 
1000-2000 rpm and the centrifugal times 
were held at 15 min intervals. Finally, the 
samples were dried at 25 oC and at relative 
humidity of 60 % to minimize the number of 
cracks that appear in the opal upon drying. 
Surface morphology of the packing particles 
was examined by FESEM and the optical 
property was measured by UV-visible 
spectrometry. 
 
2.4. Fabrication of inverse opal 
The ordered porous structures of carbon 
were fabricated by template method using 
silica templates of different sizes. The 
acid-catalyzed furfuryl alcohol was prepared 
by mixing 0.1 ml of hydrochloric acid and 10 
ml of furfuryl alcohol. The FA precursor 
solution was infiltrated by centrifugation into 
the interstitial space of opal arrays, which 
were previously assembled by centrifugal 
force. Then, the silica/FA composites were 
polymerized at 90 oC for more than 10 h, 
followed by calcination at 300 oC for 2 h in 
air atmosphere. The silica/PFA composites 
were heated to 600 oC at a heat rate of 5 
oC/min with an isothermal holding of 3 h 
under flowing argon atmosphere. When the 
silica microspheres were removed by 
dissolution of HF, the ordered porous 
structures of carbon were obtained. 
 
3. Results and Discussion 
3.1. Carbon prepared from pyrolysis of 
polyfurfuryl alcohol 
SEM images of the pyrolyzed 
polyfurfuryl alcohol (PFA) are shown in Fig. 
7.  Only the PFA synthesized in the 
HCl-catalyzed system forms irregular, 
caved-in shaped colloidal particles while all 
the rest fuse into large chunks. The driving 
force of the HCl-catalyzed polymerization 
was a large number of H+ ions in this 
solution. Since hydrochloric acid is a strong 
acid, it is essentially completely dissociated 
in water. Furthermore, it is presumably that 
HCl serves as a good dehydration agent [Cn 
(H2O)m mH2O+nC] which effectively 
eliminates the activity of fresh PFA.  
 6
where k is the shape coefficiency (a value 
between 0.9 and l.0), β is the full width at 
half maximum (FWHM, in the unit of rad) 
and θ is the diffraction angle. This equation 
is valid for particle sizes from ca. 3.0 to 50.0 
nm. However, since the (002) peak of 
pyrolysis graphite is broad and overlaps with 
the diffraction peak of untreated PFA, it is 
difficult to determine its accurate position 
and FWHM and to calculate the Lc value and 
its change with pyrolysis temperature. 
 Fig. 14 shows Raman spectra of carbons 
prepared with various acid catalysts at 400 oC.  
All spectra present two broad bands at 
around 1342 and 1586 cm-1 that correspond 
to D and G band, respectively.  The D band 
represents disordered structure of carbon, 
reflecting breathing vibration of sp2 rings 
that is caused by defects such as impurities, 
edges and finite-size effects that destruct the 
translational symmetry of the A1g.  The G 
band, on the other hand, corresponds to 
graphite in-plane vibrations with E2g 
symmetry which reflects the degree of 
graphite formation [15]. As is evident from 
Fig. 15, the Raman spectra show a distinct 
increase in intensity and narrowing of the 
width with increasing carbonization 
temperature at 1000 oC. 
 By invoking the Lorentzian functions 
for curve fitting the Raman spectra obtained 
over wavenumbers ranging from 850 to 1850 
cm-1, as shown in Fig. 16, the full width at 
half maximum of the D-band, i.e., D-FWHM, 
reduces slightly after carbonization when 
acid catalysts were used in the 
polymerization process.  This is especially 
true for the HCl-catalyzed system. And then, 
the D-FWHM decrease significantly with 
pyrolysis temperature. For the full width at 
half maximum of the G-band, i.e., G-FWHM, 
similar finding was resulted.  Comparing to 
D-band, G-band is found less sensitive to the 
structural change with only slight reduction 
in FWHM, suggesting that the addition of 
acid catalysts during polymerization tends to 
reduce the defect populations in the 
carbonized structure and form a more 
ordered structure.  The integrated intensity 
ratio of the D- and G-bands is illustrated in 
Fig. 17 in which the ratio (ID/IG) decreases 
with increasing pyrolysis temperature and in 
order of CH3COOH, H3PO4, and 
HCl-catalyzed systems.  Furthermore, 
crystallite size (La) has been calculated via an 
empirical formula: 1
G
D4
l
10
a )I
I()104.2(L    
[16], where λ1 is the wavelength of the laser 
source used.  Fig. 18 shows the crystallite 
size, La, for various acid catalysts and 
pyrolysis temperature. The crystallite size (La) 
increases continuously with pyrolysis 
temperature and clear differences are 
observed for the absolute values of La from 
the different catalysts of evaluation. As can 
be seen from the FTIR and NMR results (not 
shown here), the presence of acid catalysts 
promote polymerization of the organic 
polymers in which the more polymerized 
ones would generate a more ordered and 
graphitized structure after carbonization, 
leading to an increased crystallite size. 
 
3.2. Fabrication of synthetic opals 
Amorphous silica particles were 
synthesized by using Stöber method. The 
volume ratio of C2H5OH, TEOS, and 
NH4OH was held at 200:12:15. Reaction 
temperature was varied which results in silica 
spheres of various sizes, ranging from 280 to 
680 nm (Table 2). Fig. 19 shows particle size 
distribution of the SiO2 particles determined 
by dynamic light scattering in 95% ethanol 
mixed with water in 1:2 volume ratio. From 
the plot, we notice that the mean particle size 
decreases with increasing reaction 
temperature. Basically, the higher of the 
reaction temperature, the faster of the 
nucleation rate, resulting in higher 
concentration of nuclei. Therefore, the 
growth rate is reduced. On the other hand, at 
a lower reaction temperature, fewer nuclei 
are available to deposit and form the newly 
SiO2 layer. Fig. 20 shows the zeta potential 
of the SiO2 powders dispersed in 95% 
ethanol mixed with water in 1:2 volume ratio. 
The result shows that the SiO2 particles of 
different mean particle sizes exhibit no 
significant difference in their zeta-potential 
value, which is approximately -40mv, 
indicative of a colloidal suspension with a 
good dispersion. 
The silica microspheres were first 
 8
neff is the effective refractive index, dhkl is the 
interlayer distance in the (hkl) direction and θ 
is the incident angle to the (hkl) plane. 
 
and Snell’s law: 
22 )1( pmmmeff nfnfn   
Here, nm and np represent the refractive 
indices of the medium and the particle, 
respectively, and fm denotes the void fraction 
(0.26 for fcc crystals). 
 
Since the Bragg reflections occur from 
the (111) planes (parallel to the substrate), 
which are the most densely packed in the fcc 
arrangement, the interplanar spacing 
222 lkh
adhkl  , yields 3)111(
ad  , 
where 
2
2Da   and thus Dd
3
2
111  , 
where D being the sphere diameter of the 
colloidal packing crystal. 
 
 The calculated λ value for the 280, 450 
and 680 nm silica opal is 649, 1043 and 1577 
nm, respectively. A λ value of 632 nm was 
measured for the silica opal at 2000 rpm, in 
agreement with the calculated value ( λ = 649 
nm). In contrast, there is a discrepancy in the 
calculated and measured λ values for the 
silica opal at 1000 rpm, due presumably to 
disorder in the packing crystals. 
 
3.3. Fabrication of carbon inverse opals  
After the formation of opal structure, the 
precursor solutions of carbon were infused 
into interstices between microspheres by 
centrifugal method. The silica template was 
then removed by dissolution of HF. Figure 
26 shows SEM images of the partially 
ordered porous carbons formed from 280 to 
680 nm templates prepared by 
polymerization of FA. The sizes of the pores 
were similar to those of starting silica 
colloids and retain their original format. As 
can be clearly seen, the porous structure was 
connected by carbon materials and showed 
the porous structure arranged in partial order. 
The porous structures obtained from the 
smaller microspheres showed relatively a 
poorer quality in the long-range periodicity 
than those obtained from the larger 
microspheres. This may probably due to the 
variation in the diameters of the small silica 
particles and the fact that the terminal rate of 
the smaller particle is much slower than that 
of the larger particle. 
Top surface and fractured surface (an 
oblique view) of the ordered porous carbons 
ranging from 280 to 680nm are shown in Fig. 
27 to Fig. 29. Similar to the results of opal 
structure, a homogenous porous structure 
was obtained when the opal structure was 
prepared at 2000 rpm. The SEM images of 
porous solid reveal that large-range 
three-dimensional ordered arrays with 
uniform pore sizes and spherical shapes of 
colloidal crystals are maintained. Fig. 27 
(templated from silica 280 nm opal) shows 
the presence of pore-crystal-lattice defects 
and the polycrystalline nature, which are 
commonly observed in the inverse opal 
crystals due to defects of the packing in the 
original silica opal templates. Fig. 28 shows 
the SEM images of the ordered porous 
carbons formed from 450nm silica templates. 
The porous carbons exhibited 
three-dimensional ordered structures similar 
to that observed for the 680 nm silica 
templates (Fig. 29). It can be seen from Fig. 
28 and Fig. 29, the holes in the underneath 
layer are clearly visible in which three dark 
regions are inside each pore region, clearly 
depicting that a second layer of the network 
with the same ordering structure. It can also 
be confirmed by the cross-section images of 
Fig. 29(c, d). It indicates that the air spheres 
are indeed closely packed and its structure is 
hexagonal close-packed in three-dimensional. 
The result indicates that the image plane is 
close to the (111) plane of the fcc lattice. One 
can hence conclude that the periodic 
structure of template and the spherical shape 
of the silica microspheres were preserved 
during the removal of silica template. With 
structures made from the colloidal template, 
the 2D and 3D ordered porous structure can 
be manipulated by changing the diameter of 
the latex particles. 
In order to know the surface area and 
pore distribution of the inverse opal carbons, 
the nitrogen adsorption and desorption 
isotherms are measured. These inverse opal 
 10
that this procedure should also be 
extendible to colloidal particles made of 
other materials and with a wide range of 
other sizes. 
3. The ordered porous carbons were 
fabricated by the template synthesis of 
PFA in the interstice of silica colloidal 
crystals, followed by the carbonization 
and etching of the silica template. Similar 
to the results of opal structure, a 
homogenous and ordered porous 
structure was obtained when the opal 
structure was prepared at 2000 rpm. With 
structures made from the colloidal 
template, the 3D ordered porous structure 
can be manipulated by changing the 
diameter of the silica particles. 
4. The porous carbon membranes possess a 
microstructure with triple porosity due to 
macropores, mesopores and micropore. 
there are hierarchy of pores in the inverse 
opal carbons that is, the large 
interconnected spherical pores based on 
the silica templates, the smaller 
intersticial pores(from the voids of 
infiltration process), and the meso- and 
micropores with the carbon walls(from 
the carbonization process). 
5. The ordered porous carbons possess high 
internal surface areas which are 
accessible via an interconnected porous 
network and this structure has a high 
surface area for adsorption, making them 
attractive for sensing applications. 
 
Final Remark 
Part of this report has been accepted by the 
Journal of Polymer Research, and is 
scheduled to be published in 2010. 
 
References 
[1] Yablonovitch E., Inhibited Spontaneous 
Emission in Solid-State Physics and 
Electronics, Phys. Rev. Lett., 1987, 58, 
2059-2062. 
[2] John S., Strong Localization of Photons 
in Certain Disordered Dielectric 
Superlattices, Phys. Rev. Lett., 1987, 58, 
2486-2489. 
[3] Sacks MD and Tseng T.Y., Preparation of 
SiO2 Glass from Model Powder 
Compacts, 1. Formation and 
Characterization of Powders, 
Suspensions, and Green Compacts, J. Am. 
Ceram. Soc., 1984, 67(8), 526-532. 
[4] Wijnhoven J. E. G. J., Vos W. L., 
Preparation of Photonic Crystals Made of 
Air Spheres in Titania, Science, 1998, 
281, 802-804. 
[5] Holland B.T., Blanford C.F., and Stein A., 
Synthesis of Macroporous Minerals with 
Highly Ordered Three-Dimensional 
Arrays of Spheroidal Voids, Science, 
1998, 281, 538-540. 
[6] Joannopoulos J.D., Self-Assembly Lights 
up, Nature, 2001, 414, 257-258. 
[7] Holgado M., García-Santamaría F., 
Blanco A., Ibisate M., Cintas A., Míguez 
H., et al. Electrophoretic Deposition to 
Control Artificial Opal Growth, 
Langmuir, 1999, 15, 4701-4704. 
[8] Park S.H., Qin D., Xia Y., Crystallization 
of Mesoscale Particles over Large Areas, 
Adv. Mater., 1998, 10(13), 1028-1032. 
[9] Bartal G., Cohen O., Buljan H., Fleischer 
J.W., Manela O., Segev M., Brillouin 
Zone Spectroscopy of Nonlinear 
Photonic Lattices, Phys. Rev. Lett., 2005, 
94(16), 163902-16304. 
[10] Waterhouse G.I.N., Waterland M.R., 
Opal and Inverse Opal Photonic Crystals: 
Fabrication and Characterization, 
Polyhedron, 2007, 26, 356-368. 
[11] Stöber W., Fink A., Bohn E., Controlled 
Growth of Monodisperse Silica Spheres 
in the Micron Size Range, J. Colloid 
Interface Sci., 1968, 26, 62-69. 
[12] Burket C.L., Rajagopalan R., Marencic 
A.P., Dronvajjala K., Foley H.C., 
 12
 
Fig. 3：Flowchart for the synthesis of carbon 
materials. 
 
 
Fig. 4：Flowchart for the synthesis of silica 
particles. 
 
 
Fig. 5：Flowchart for the centrifugual 
self-assembly. 
 
 
Fig. 6：Schematics of the packing cell that 
was sandwiched between two glass plates. 
 
 
Fig. 7: SEM images of the furfuryl alcohol (a) 
without acid, and with (b) CH3COOH, (c) 
H3PO4, (d) HCl, respectively, after 
polymerized at 90 oC in flowing argon 
atmosphere. 
 
 
 
Fig. 8: SEM images of the polyfurfuryl 
alcohol (a) without acid, and with (b) 
CH3COOH, (c) H3PO4, (d) HCl, respectively, 
after carbonized at 400 oC in flowing argon 
atmosphere. 
 
 14
 
Fig. 15: Raman spectra of carbons prepared 
with various acid catalysts at 1000 oC. 
 
 
Fig. 16: Full width at half maxium (FWHM) 
of D-band and G-band peaks when various 
acid catalysts were used in the carbon 
synthesis. 
 
 
Fig. 17: Ratio of integrated intensities from 
the D- and G-bands (ID/IG) when various acid 
catalysts were used in the carbon synthesis. 
 
 
Fig. 18: Crystallite size, La, for various acid 
catalysts were used in the carbon synthesis. 
 
 
Fig. 19: Particle size distribution of the SiO2 
particles synthesized at (a) room temperature 
(b) 50oC (c) 80 oC, dispersed in 95% ethanol 
mixed with water in 1:2 volume ratio. 
 
 
Fig. 20: Zeta potential of the SiO2 particles 
synthesized at (a) room temperature (b) 50oC 
(c) 80 oC, dispersed in 95% ethanol mixed 
with water in 1:2 volume ratio. 
 
 16
 
Fig. 25: UV-visible reflection spectrum 
obtained from the silica opal structure with 
different diameters. 
 
 
Fig. 26: SEM images of FA-derived porous 
carbons formed from (a, b) 280nm; (c, d) 
450nm; (e, f) 680nm silica templates 
prepared by centrifugal method at 1000 rpm. 
 
 
 
Fig. 27: SEM images of FA-derived porous 
carbons formed from 280 nm silica templates 
prepared by centrifugal method at 2000 rpm. 
(a ,b) top view; (c, d) cross-sectional view. 
 
 
Fig. 28: SEM images of FA-derived porous 
carbons formed from 450 nm silica templates 
prepared by centrifugal method at 2000 rpm. 
(a ,b) top view; (c, d) cross-sectional view. 
 
 
Fig. 29: SEM images of FA-derived porous 
carbons formed from 680 nm silica templates 
prepared by centrifugal method at 2000 rpm. 
(a ,b) top view; (c, d) cross-sectional view. 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
98 年 6 月 8 日 
報告人姓名  
 曾文甲 
 
服務機構
及職稱 
 
 國立中興大學材料工程系 教授
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
980522 – 980606 
加拿大 溫哥華 
本會核定
補助文號
國科會
NSC-95-2221-E-005-036-MY3 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 第 8 屆泛太平洋陶瓷與玻璃科技國際研討會 
 (英文) 8th Pacific Rim Conference on Ceramic and Glass Technology  
發表 
論文 
題目 
論文 1  (口頭發表；共同作者：學生王彥文、李維持、曾子聰) 
(中文) 新型具有奈米孔洞殼層結構之中空氧化鋁-白金複合微球的合成 
(英文) A Novel Technique for Synthesizing Nanoshell Hollow 
Alumina-Platinum Particles 
 
論文 2  (海報發表；共同作者：博士候選人曾子聰同學) 
(中文) PVP 添加對水熱合成之氧化錮奈米柱的外形與結構影響 
(英文) Effect of Polyvinylpyrrolidone on Morphology and Structure of In2O3 
Nanorods by Hydrothermal Synthesis 
 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
本次會議是由美國陶業協會主辦，太平洋週邊的澳洲、日本、中國、韓國等國之陶業
協會共同協辦，規模相當盛大。會議日期從 5 月 31 日至 6 月 5 日，共計 6 天，總共
包含 27 個次主題(Symposium)同步舉行。會議地點選在加拿大西部大城溫哥華
(Vancouver)市區的凱悅飯店舉行，會場設施完善。來自台灣的學者，包括台大材料韋
文誠教授、成大材料黃肇端教授與方冠榮教授、及大同大學林永仁院長，都名列會議
次主題的規畫人(Symposium Organizers)，有助提升台灣在世界陶瓷材料舞臺的能見
度。本次會議總計邀請 3 場大會特別演講(Plenary Lecture)、原訂將近千篇論文發表，
其中包含口頭發表約 800 篇及海報發表 200 篇，分成 27 個會場廳同步進行口頭論文
報告，但因受新型 H1N1 流感影響，估計有 200 名左右臨時取消赴會，尤其以來自日
本的學者占約一半學最多，但此次會議仍吸引估計約 800 位左右來自世界各地從事陶
瓷材料與玻璃研究的學者專家與會。大會特別邀請到多位在陶瓷材料前瞻研究領域學
有專精的教授，例如：美國康寧(Corning)公司的 Dr. Joseph A. Miller Jr.、日本國立材
料科學院(National Institute for Materials Science)的 Dr. Teruo Kishi、 與美國佛羅里達
大學知名的 Larry L. Hench 教授作專題演講，演說內容精采且畫龍點睛地將陶瓷與玻
 
