  2 
一 報告內容 
 
Characteristics of and Relations Between Housing Cycles and Economic 
Fluctuations: A Time-Frequency Analysis 
1. Introduction 
In this study, we use time-frequency analysis to characterize the relationships between 
housing market and economic variables in different frequencies over time. To date, the 
relation between housing cycles and business cycles is still a controversial issue. For 
example, Leamer (2007) argues that the residential investment leads the economy during 
the recession to recovery period; on the other hand, Catte et al. (2004) propose that the 
residential property markets tend to track the business cycle. Due to the incompleteness of 
housing market, the housing market in terms of housing cycles are more complex than 
capital markets. 
We use a novel method, wavelet analysis, to decompose time series into various time-
frequency domains. Wavelet analysis has been widely used in many disciplines such as 
acoustics, astronomy, engineering, forensics, geology, medicine, meteorology, 
oceanography and physics. Innovative use of wavelet analysis continues to emerge. For 
instance, Grinsted et al. (2004) apply the cross wavelet transform and wavelet coherence to 
geophysical time series. Recently, wavelet method has gradually gained attentions from 
economists, especially those who study cyclical behaviors in macroeconomics. For example, 
Aguiar (2008) studies the cyclic behaviors and lead/lag relations between interest rate, 
inflation, and money supply. The major benefit by using wavelet method in macroeconomic 
and asset pricing is because the wavelet analysis can exhibit accurate location of time-
frequency domain and more delicately characterize the relationships between two variables. 
Traditional spectral analysis such as STFT cannot provide results with such precision.  
In this empirical analysis, we analyze the relationships between housing market and 
economy variables using data from US, UK, Canada, New Zealand, Japan, Taiwan, and 
Hong Kong. In order to investigate the relationships between housing price and economy 
fluctuation, we use not only the housing price data but also those variables which are most 
related in the macro-economy. These variables include GDP, long term interest rate, and 
term spread. Three wavelet techniques are applied for analysis which are wavelet transform 
spectrum (WT), wavelet coherence (WTC), and phase difference (PD). WT provides the 
power distribution of a time series in the different time scales and is used to analyze the 
impacts of a variable at any time and frequency location. WTC provides the relationship of 
the standardized power distributions between two time series and is used to analyze the 
degree of correlation between two time series at any time and frequency location. Phase 
difference is used to analyze the time-varying lead/lag relation in specific frequencies. 
Our findings show that housing and economic variables have some cyclic 
characteristics that locate at the specific frequency bands. These specific frequency bands 
match with the period of Kitchin cycle and Juglar cycle. These cyclic characteristics are 
seldom discussed in typical time series analyses, because these analyses cannot decompose 
the variables into different frequency bands. Summarizing the cyclic characteristics of all 
variables in the wavelet transform spectrum, we find that GDP and HPI both have the most 
complete cyclic characteristics at short-term cycle and mid-term cycle. Through wavelet 
coherence, the cyclic interactions between housing and economic variables also have high 
  4 
demand cycles associated with the business cycles from longer supply cycles of up to 9-
years duration. Afterwards, Barra (1994) also studied UK construction activity, where he 
found a series of overlapping fluctuation with 4-5year, 9-10year, 20-year and 50-year 
durations. He found that the 20-year cycles are associated with major speculation episodes 
before their peaks. Recently, a study by Helbling and Terrones (2003) included in IMF’s  
Economic Outlook Report provided a detailed analysis of equity (1959-2002) and house 
prices (1970-2002) in 14 developed counties. They studied the ―bust‖ of equity and house 
prices and found that the house prices was roughly one bust in a country every 20 years. 
 
2.2        Housing Market and Economic Fluctuations 
A very difficult question in financial economics is that: does economy lead or lag housing 
market and how? It is not clear what happens between housing market and economic. In 
studying this challenging issue, many economists used classic time series analysis to 
explore the relationships between housing market and economic fluctuations. 
Dolde and Tirtiroglu (2002) examine significant volatility shifts of housing price 
changes in various regions and nations, and conclude that most volatility events are 
regional rather than national in scope. They find that the significant associations of 
volatility events and economic conditions exist especially in national and regional income, 
growth, inflation, and interest rates. Significantly high interest rates are associated with the 
periods both before and after the volatility of housing price increases. Thus it appears that 
low interest rates characterize periods of homoskedasticity, while high rates accompany 
heteroskedasticity. 
Morris & Jonathan (2004) investigate the ability of a multi-sector growth model for 
replicating some facts so-called housing puzzle: (1) the percentage standard deviation of 
residential investment (at business cycle frequencies) is twice that of non-residential 
investment, and (2) consumption, non-residential investment, residential investment and 
GDP all co-move positively.  
In Catte et al (2004), based on the analysis of the behavior of real house prices since 
1970 in a group of 18 OECD countries and on their correlations with key macroeconomic 
variables such as the output gap, private consumption, residential investment, a number of 
stylized facts are identified, consistent with the empirical literature on the subject. They 
find some significant styled facts: Residential property markets tend to track the business 
cycle in 18 countries, with a tendency for the turning points of real house price to lag 
business cycle peaks and troughs. However, the movements often differ markedly across 
countries, and differing from one cycle to another. Catte et al (2004) further also find that 
house price downturns in response to output cycles tend to be delayed and the subsequent 
price decline tends to be smaller when interest rates rise less than usual or decline after an 
equity market peak. However, the statistical relationship between interest rates and house 
price movements differs widely in speed and strength across countries. The impact of 
interest rates on house prices seems to be both stronger and more rapid in countries with 
more developed mortgage markets. 
Matteoia (2005) builds a VAR model in which the relevant variables include interest 
rate, inflation, house price, and GDP. He finds when an impulse inputs the model through 
actual numerical analysis, a narrow money supply (interest rate increase) will cause 
nominal and real house price to turn down.  
Leamer (2007) maintains that ―residential investment contributes a small fraction to 
total growth‖ (recently about 4.2%), but ―the residential investment contribution to US 
  6 
3.2.1   Wavelet function 
A function, , to qualify for admissible condition is denoted as (mother) wavelet function. 
To be ―admissible‖ as a wavelet, this function must have zero mean and be localized in 
both time and frequency space (Farge 1992). A family of ―wavelet daughter‖,  ,s , can be 
generated as a double sequence of functions by scaling  by s  and translating   by  : 
0 ,,       ),
s
-t
(
1
)(t,  ss
s
s 

  …    (1) 
where s is a sequence of scales. The term s1  ensures that the norm of )(t, s  is equal to 
one. The wavelet function )(t, s  is centered at located   with scale s . The scale s  is 
inversely related to frequency of the wavelet and scaling a wavelet function is just like 
stretching or compressing it. 
We choose the Morlet as wavelet function in our analysis even if there are all kinds of 
wavelet such as morlet, Mexican Hat and Haar etc. One of the most popular mother wavelet, 
Morlet, has been used in many literatures for wavelet analyzing which defined as:  
    
24-1
0
2
0   eei       (2) 
where 0  is the nondimensional frequency, and   is dimensionless time. 
In this paper, we choose Morlet wavelet with 60   which satisfies the optimal 
admissibility condition. Morlet wavelet provides a good balance between time and 
frequency localization (Farge, 1992). The Morlet function shows as Fig 1, and its properties 
correspond for the space of functions with finite energy, admissibility condition and 
canceling out along time-axis.  
 
The plots on the left give the real part (solid) and imaginary part (dashed) for the 
wavelets in the time domain. The plots on the right give the corresponding wavelets in 
the frequency domain. 
 
Fig. 1 The Morlet function 
 
 
 
 
 
3.2.2   Wavelet Transform Spectrum (WT)  
  8 
)(W)(W)(W * sss yn
x
n
xy
n      (6) 
)(W sxn and )(W s
y
n  both are complex (has discussed in eq (3)), so can be written as: 
]sin[cosR)(W ,,,
x
sn
x
sn
x
sn
x
n is       (7) 
]sin[cosR)(W ,,,
y
sn
y
sn
y
sn
y
n is       (8) 
and the complex conjugate of )(W syn can be written as: 
])(-sin)(-[cosR)(W ,,,
* y
sn
y
sn
y
sn
y
n is  
……………..(9) 
Then from eq(6) we can get: 
…..(10) 
where  y sn
x
sn ,, RR is the amplitude which equals to )(W s
xy
n  , and )-( ,,,
y
sn
x
snsn    is 
the angle which projects on Complex plane. 
Although the Cross Wavelet Spectrum can represent the relationship between two 
time series, )(W sxyn  is still affected by each 
x
sn,R  or  
y
sn,R  . To avoid the above problem, 
Wavelet Coherence standardizes the power distribution of Cross Wavelet Spectrum:  

WCn
xy (s) 
E Wn
x (s)Wn
y*(s) 
E Wn
x (s)
1 2 Wny*(s)1 2 
     (11) 
When the value is close to 1, it represents the correlation is higher; when the value is 
close to 0, it represents the correlation is lower. WTC is the cross-spectrum divided by 
square root of wavelet spectrum of X and square root of wavelet spectrum of Y that more 
accurately explains the relationships between two time series. So we can say WTC provides 
the relationship of the standardized power distributions of two time series and is used to 
analyze the degree of correlation between two time series at any time and frequency 
location. 
 
3.2.4   Phase and Phase Difference 
The phase of an oscillation or wave is the fraction of a complete cycle which fluctuates up 
and down around the time-axis. We can simulate a business cycle as a pseudo cycle rotating 
an unit circle and projecting onto time –axis. Phase difference (PD) is the difference of the 
phase between two time series. Actually the CWT series  contains not only the 
]isin[cosRR            
)]-isin()-[cos(RR)(W
,,,,
,,,,,,
snsn
y
sn
x
sn
y
sn
x
sn
y
sn
x
sn
y
sn
x
sn
xy
n s




  10 
4. Empirical Analysis and Results 
We firstly use wavelet transform spectrum analysis to analyze the characteristics of housing 
market and macroeconomic variables from seven countries or regions. There are persistent 
cyclic characteristics on two major frequency bands in housing cycles and economic 
fluctuations. These frequency bands have the similar periods which correspond to a short-
term cycle like Kitchin(1923) inventory cycle and a mid-term cycle like Juglar(1862) fixed 
investment cycle. Secondly, we use the wavelet coherence and the phase difference to 
discuss the relationships between housing market and macroeconomic variables. Wavelet 
coherence also shows that some of them have the persistent correlations on these two 
frequency bands, but some of them are not. In order to characterize these correlations in 
more details, we use the phase difference method to Fig. out the lead/lag relation of them. 
 
4.1    Data 
Because the housing price index is difficult to collect, we only use the data of seven 
countries or regions, including US, UK, Canada, New Zealand, Japan, Taiwan, and Hong 
Kong. As mentioned earlier, we are interesting in the housing variables and some economic 
variables that may affect the housing market. Based on the above literatures, we choose 
housing price index, GDP, long-term interest rate, and term spread for our empirical 
analysis. The followings are the brief description of the variables chosen: 
 
i. Housing price index (HPI): 
Housing price index represents the composite index to measure house price. The 
relationship between house-price variability and economic fluctuations is an important 
issue (see Helbling and Terrones, 2003; Dolde and Tirtiroglu, 2002; Catte et al., 2004). 
Note that the definition of housing price index is different from each country and this 
may pose restrictions to our analysis. 
ii. Gross domestic product (GDP): 
GDP is a measure of a country’s overall economic output and business cycles. Lucas 
(1977) and Kydland and Prescott (1990) study business cycle using GDP and other 
macroeconomic variables. 
iii. Long-term interest rate: 
Long-term interest rate reflects long-term risk premium associated with the forecast of 
the trend of short-term interest rate. Considering the term premium uncertainty, long-
term interest rate is often higher than short-term interest rate. In this study, we consider 
that long-term interest rate is associated with future economy and is expected to be 
positively associated with GDP. 
iv. Term spread: 
Term spread is the difference between long-term interest rate and short-term interest 
rate. When the short-term interest rate is high or the term spread is small, investors are 
less willing to invest in market today due to its indication of less return in investment. 
When term spread becomes very small or negative, the likelihood of recession 
becomes high. Therefore, term spread could be a lead indictor of GDP. 
 
Our data is prepared following two basic settings: 1. We adjust all nominal variables to 
their real term by setting CPI 2005 =100; and 2. We use the percentage change from the 
returns of real housing price and the growth rate of macroeconomic variables. Especially, 
  12 
4.2. Cyclic Characteristics of Housing Market and Economy Variables 
In a wavelet transform spectrum (WT) diagram, the horizontal axis is the time and the 
vertical axis is the period in terms of the number of years. The color code for the amplitude 
of power ranges from blue (lowest power) to red (highest power). The area inside the thick 
contour line is the power of peak above the background spectrum at 95% significance 
levels. The cone of influence is shown with thin line, indicating the region affected by edge 
effect. Some high power cannot pass the background spectrum at 95% significance levels, 
but the power distribution can still be significantly higher than other area in the wavelet 
transform spectrum. To avoid too stringent limitation
1
, the relatively higher power that does 
not pass the 95% significance levels is still considered acceptable in this paper. COI 
concerns the edge effect and we shall pad zeros into a series; therefore, its power is 
theoretically reduced. If the high power distribution is still obvious after padding zeros into 
the series, it indicates that the power could be high after using the real data in the past and 
future. That is why we still consider the high power distributions out of COI. 
 
4.2.1 Housing Cycles  
In Fig. 3, we show the wavelet transform spectrum of housing for each country and region. 
We can see wide power distributions at short-term and long-term cycle, especially in US, 
UK and Canada. 
In US, both 4-6 year and 8-10 year frequency bands have high power for the whole 
period of time. In UK, 2-4 year and 8-9 year frequency bands have high power for the 
whole period of time, but the power is higher at 8-9 year bands. Actually, a wide high 
power area contains these two bands during 1987-1992. In Canada, the wide 4-9 year 
frequency band has high power, covering short-term and mid-term cycles. This 4-9 year 
frequency band has the relatively high power before 2000.  
In Japan, 7-10 year frequency band has high power in mid-term cycles during 1972-
2002; In New Zealand, Taiwan, and Hong Kong, since the length of the data is relatively 
short, it is difficult to exhibit medium- or long-term cycles. However, we do observe a 2-4 
year frequency band in New Zealand, 3-5 year frequency band in Taiwan (more significant 
after 2002), and 2-4 year frequency band in Hong Kong.  
To summarize, housing cycles consist short-term inventory cycles and mid-term fixed 
investment cycles. Especially in UK, the cyclic characteristics of housing are similar to 
Barra (1985) (1994), but the 4-5 year cyclic characteristics of housing disappear after 1995. 
Another issue is why isn’t Japan affected by Kitchin short-term cycles? We find that there 
was an asset bubble in Japan during 1986-1990s. After 1993, the house price crushed and 
hit its economy severely. The short-term cycle doesn’t appear from the analysis because it 
is a very long recession during this period after 1993. Economists call it ―The lost decade.‖ 
There are some sporadic high power distributions that appear at the high frequency bands, 
especially for monthly (high frequency) data, in UK and Canada. There are also high 
frequency noises in the high frequency bands. Those noises do not have permanent 
influences and are only temporary shocks or occasional events. 
                                                 
1
 The background spectrum is used first-order autocorrelation to calculate, but the economic time series is not 
always AR(1). Sometimes, the background spectrum at 95% significance levels is too severe for high power 
judgment. 
  14 
1979-1983, during when the oil crisis happened from 1979 to 1980 and caused the US GDP 
to fall 3% and a two year recession in 1981-1982 and recovery after 1983. In UK, the 4-9 
year frequency band has high power. During 2005-2009, its high power distribution covers 
the whole frequency band. In Canada, the 4-6 year and 8-9 year frequency bands have high 
power for the whole period of time. This result seems similar to that in US. In Japan, three 
frequency bands, the 3-5 year, 8-10 year, and 5-8 year have high power. During the asset 
bubble from 1986-1990s, the 2-4 year frequency band has the strongest power in Japan. In 
New Zealand, Taiwan, and Hong Kong, the GDP is characterized by the short-term Kitchin 
cycle. New Zealand and Hong Kong are at the 2-4 year frequency band and Taiwan is at 2 
year and 3.5-4.5 year frequency bands after 2002. 
To summarize the cyclic characteristics of GDP, persistent high power exists across 
short, medium and long term frequency bands in most countries and regions. As a result, 
GDP can be a reference cycle in the following discussions of this paper. 
 
4.2.3 Long-term interest rate 
The wavelet transform spectrum for long-term interest rate is shown in Fig. 5. In US, a 
wide range of 4-10 year frequency band has high power during 1978-1990, which contains 
the short-term and mid-term cycles. In UK, the 2-4 year and 8-9 year frequency bands have 
high power. In Canada, the 8-9 year frequency band has high power for the whole period of 
time. In Japan, a high power distribution across a wide frequency band during 1970-1983, 
because the first oil crisis happened in this period and hit Japan economy. Japan 
government frequently adjusted the interest rate to control inflation during this period. In 
New Zealand, the 1-2 year frequency band has high power during 1992-1998, but it moves 
across to 2-4 year frequency band after 1998. In Taiwan, some local high power distribution 
in 2-4 year frequency band during 2005 to 2009. In Hong Kong, the 2-4 year frequency 
band has high power for the whole period of time. To summarize, long-term interest rate 
does not seems to exhibit persistent high power distribution in certain frequency bands 
across countries and regions. 
 
4.2.4 Term spread 
The wavelet transform spectrum of term spread is shown in Fig. 6. In US, the 4-6 year 
and 8-10 year frequency bands have high power for the whole period of time. In UK, the 2-
4 year and 4-9 year frequency bands have high power for the whole period of time. There is 
an area around the 4-6 years frequency band without high power during the period of 1995-
2005 and the short-term cycle and mid-term cycle are divided during this period. In Canada, 
the 3-4 year and 8-9 year frequency bands have high power for the whole period of time. In 
Japan, the 8-9 year frequency band has high power during 1980-1995. In New Zealand, the 
1-2 year and 2-4 year frequency bands have high power, but the high power of 1-2 year 
frequency band exists only during 1996-2000. In Taiwan, the 3-5 year frequency band has 
high power after 2002. In Hong Kong, the 2-5 year frequency band has high power, but the 
high power disappears after 2006. To summarize, compared to the long-term interest rate, 
the term spread exhibits persistent high power distribution in certain frequency bands 
across countries and regions.  
 
 
  16 
 
    US
     UK
       Canada
     New Zealand
  Taiwan
  Hong Kong
   Japan
 
 
 
The horizontal axis is time and the vertical axis is period. The color code for the 
amplitude of power ranges from blue (low power) to red (high power). The area 
inside the thick contour line is the power of peak above the background spectrum by 
95% significance levels. The cone of influence (COI) is shown with thin line, 
indicating the region affected by edge effect. 
 
             Fig. 1 Wavelet transform spectrum of long-term interest rate 
  18 
4.2.5 The Cyclic Characteristics of Housing Market and Economy Variables 
Based on the WT analysis results, we can conclude that there are specific frequency bands 
exhibiting persistent cyclic properties. In particular, the 2-4 year, 3-5 year, 4-6 year 
frequency bands match with the short-term cycle proposed by Kitchin (1923), and the 7-9 
year and 8-10 year frequency bands are similar to the mid-term cycle found by Juglar cycle 
(1862). However, according to our analysis, the two types of cycles are often mixed 
together and this is why extant research using traditional time series analysis without the 
capability to decompose the two types of cycles cannot yield satisfactory results. Using the 
WT analysis, we are able to better characterize the cyclic characteristics of housing markets 
and economy variables. 
 
4.3 Relations Between Housing Market and Economic Fluctuations 
The relationship between housing and economy variables can be analyzed in the wavelet 
coherence (WTC). The degree of correlations between two variables can be indicated by 
their coherence in the WTC because high coherence represents relatively high correlations. 
The area with consistently high coherence in the specific frequency bands would be further 
analyzed by their phase difference. In the phase difference analysis, lead/lag relations can 
be characterized.  
In the wavelet coherence, the horizontal axis is time and the vertical axis is period of 
year. The color code for coherence ranges from blue (low coherence- close to zero) to red 
(high power- close to 1). There are two cases when the WTC shows high coherence: first, 
the two variables have high power in their WT and they also have high coherence at the 
same time–frequency location; and second, the two variables have high coherence in WTC, 
but no high power distribution in their WT is at the same time–frequency location. We shall 
consider the latter the spurious coherence because no cyclic behaviors can be identified if 
there is no significant power distribution.               
 In the phase difference, we have two diagrams as shown in the followings. The upper 
one is the phase difference diagram, showing the phase of two variables and their phase 
difference, where the horizontal axis is time and the vertical axis is phase between -π/2 and 
π/2. The lower diagram is the pseudo cycle diagram, which converts the phase into the 
pseudo cycle by sine function. This diagram can show more detailed lead/lag relations, 
varying with time, where the horizontal axis is time and the vertical axis is sin( ) between  
-1 and 1. The phase difference can be directly used to decide the lead/lag relation. However, 
we still need to associate the phase difference analysis with a reference cycle for discussing 
certain situations, such as the phase difference close to -π/2, π/2, or their pro-cyclical and 
counter-cyclical relations are difficult to judge. Here, GDP is recommended as a reference 
cycle, which can help us to judge the lead/lag relation of housing and the other variables. 
This concept is similar to use GDP as a benchmark variable. 
 
4.3.1 Relations Between Housing and GDP 
Our analysis shows that housing and GDP are able to lead each other and the lead/lag 
relations may change when critical events happen. As shown in Fig. 7, in US, the 4-6 year 
frequency band has high coherence in WTC diagram. The phase difference is consistently 
between  π 2 and 0, showing GDP leads housing at the 4-6 year frequency band. 
As shown in Fig. 8, in UK, three frequency bands can be discussed. The 4-8 year 
frequency band has high coherence during 1983-1996, and the phase difference is near 0, 
showing GDP and housing are synchronous. The 2-4 year and 8-9 year frequency bands 
  20 
4-6 years(A)  Wavelet Coherence (B)  Phase Difference Diagram
(C)  Pseudo Cycle Diagram
 
Fig. 7  US: (A)Wavelet Coherence and (B)Phase Difference and (C)Pseudo cycle of 
HPI and GDP 
(B) 4-9 years (1983- 1996)
(D) 8-9 years (1996-2009Q4)(C) 2-4 years (1996-2009Q4)
(A)
 
Fig. 8  UK: (A)Wavelet Coherence and (B)(C)(D)Phase Difference (pseudo cycle) of 
HPI and GDP 
  22 
(A)
(B)
 
 
4.3.2 Relations Between Housing Market and Long-term Interest Rate 
We find that long-term interest rate tend to lead GDP and housing in most countries and 
regions. In Canada, Fig. 14 shows that the 8-9 year frequency band has high coherence 
during 2002Q1-2009Q4. The phase difference is very close to  π 2 , which makes it 
difficult to judge their relationship. Thus, we further use GDP as a reference cycle and find 
that long-term interest rate leads GDP and housing, and GDP leads housing a little (almost 
synchronous).       
In New Zealand, Fig. 15 shows that a wide frequency band between 1-4 years has high 
coherence. We divide this wide frequency band into the 1-2 year band and 2-4 year band. 
These two frequency bands both have their phase difference consistently between  π 2 and 
0, showing long-term interest rate leads housing. In Taiwan, Fig. 16 shows that the 3-5 year 
frequency band has high coherence, and the phase difference is consistently between  π 2 
and 0, showing long-term interest rate leads housing. 
In UK, Fig. 16 shows that two frequency bands have high coherence. One is the 2-4 
year frequency band during 2002Q1-2009Q4. The phase difference is close to π 2 and so 
we use GDP as a reference cycle. The result suggests that housing and GDP leads long-term 
interest rate at this 2-4 year frequency band during 2003Q3-2006Q2. The other one is the 4-
9 year frequency band, which has persistent high coherence and the phase difference is near 
0, showing housing and long-term interest rate are synchronous.  
To summarize, long-term interest rate leads housing in Canada, New Zealand, and 
Taiwan. The short-term and mid-term cycles also have the consistent relations. On the 
contrary, in UK, housing tend to lead long-term interest rate in short-term cycle and is 
synchronous in mid-term cycle. Moreover, GDP lags both of them. Noting that the 
relationship between long-term interest rate and housing does not exist in US, Japan, and 
Hong Kong. 
Fig. 12  Hong Kong:  (A)Wavelet Coherence and (B)Phase Difference and pseudo 
cycle of HPI and GDP 
  24 
(B) 1-2 years
(C) 2-4 years
(A) 
Fig. 14   New Zealand: (A) Wavelet Coherence and (B) Phase Difference (pseudo 
cycle) of HPI and long-term interest rate          
(A) (B)
 
Fig. 15   Taiwan: (A) Wavelet Coherence and (B) Phase Difference (pseudo cycle) of 
HPI and long-term interest rate      
  26 
found in Japan and Hong Kong. 
 
(B) 4-6 years
(C). 7-10 years
(A)
 
Fig. 17   US: (A)Wavelet Coherence, (B)Phase Difference (pseudo cycle) of HPI and 
term spread 
  28 
(B) 2-4 years (2004-2010)
(C) 4-9 years
(A) 
 
 
(A)
(B)
 
Fig. 19   UK: (A)Wavelet Coherence, (B)(C)Phase Difference (pseudo cycle) of HPI 
and term spread 
Fig. 20   Canada: (A) Wavelet Coherence, (B) Phase Difference (pseudo cycle) of HPI 
and term spread 
  30 
5. Conclusions  
Different from Kydland and Prescott (1990), who give statistic properties of business 
cycles based on classic time series analysis, we use wavelet analysis to study cyclic 
characteristics of and the relations between housing cycles and macroeconomic variables. 
We obtain the following findings.   
Finding 1: We find housing and economic variables have some cyclic characteristics 
located at the specific frequency bands and time domains. These specific frequency bands 
match with the period of Kitchin cycle and Juglar cycle. These cyclic characteristics are 
seldom discussed by classic time series analysis, because traditional methods cannot 
decompose the variables into different frequency bands.    
 Finding 2: Summarizing the cyclic characteristics of all variables in Wavelet transform 
spectrum, we find that GDP and housig market both have the most complete cyclic 
characteristics at short-term cycle and mid-term cycle.  
Finding 3: Through the wavelet coherence and the phase difference analyses, we find 
(1) the relations between housing and GDP is most unstable, varying the relations of lead, 
lag or synchrony with time and countries; (2) Long-term interest rate is a more stable lead 
indicator of housing across most countries. (3) Term spread stably leads GDP and housing 
across most countries. 
The major frequency bands that have cyclic characteristics of the studied variable are 
identified in this paper. This result can help model building and VAR test where the critical 
frequency bands are useful. Another contribution of this study is to propose a better method, 
namely wavelet analysis, for studying the complex and mixed characteristics of housing 
market and its relation with economy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  32 
Bearing upon Cyclical Fluctuations. Boston: Houghton Mifflin. 
23. Kydland, F. E. and Prescott, E. (1990), ―Business Cycles, Real Facts and a Monetary 
Myth,‖ Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis Quarterly Review, Vol. 14(2), pp. 3-18. 
24. Leamer, E. E. (2007), ―Housing Is the Business Cycle,‖ National Bureau of Economic 
Research, NBER Working Papers, 13428. 
25. Lucas, R. E.(1977), ―Understanding business cycles,‖ Carnegie-Rochester Conference 
Series on Public Policy, Elsevier, vol. 5(1), pages 7-29, January 
26. Morris, D. & Jonathan, H. (2004), ―Housing and the business cycle,‖Finance and 
Economics Discussion Series 2004-11, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System (U.S.). 
27. Ramsey, J and Lampart, C (1998a), ―Decomposition of Economic Relationships by 
Timescale Using Wavelets‖. Macroeconomic Dynamics,Vol. 2, 49—71. 
28. Timotej, J. (2002), ―MEASURING BUSINESS CYCLES – A DYNAMIC 
PERSPECTIVE‖. Research - Bank of Slovenia. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     
日期： 99 年 10 月 1 日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
會議為期三天,進行順利,本人發表或許多人的讚許並獲得 ASCE期刊邀稿 
二、與會心得 
該會議為營建管理年度重要會議,提供研究交流平台及許多合作機會,本人
與數位學者有許多討論並建立合作共識,收穫良多 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
四、建議 
會議有許多重量級人物,可與之交流,台灣學者參加的很少,建議台灣學者多
出席此會議 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
Proceedings of Construction Research Congress 2010 
六、其他 
 
 
 
 
 
計畫編號 NSC 98－ 2221 － E － 002 － 182 － 
計畫名稱  
出國人員
姓名 
荷世平 
服務機構及
職稱 
台灣大學 
土木工程學系 
會議時間 
2010年 5月 8日 
至 
2010年 5月 10日 
會議地點 
 
Banff, Canada 
會議名稱 
(中文) 營建管理研究研討會 2010 
(英文) Construction Research Congress 2010 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)標單數量錯誤之補償原則:法律經濟分析 
(英文)MODEL FOR LEGAL PRINCIPLES OF COMPENSATION 
FOR ERRORS IN BILLS OF QUANTITIES: A LAW AND 
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS 
附件四 
 2 
Unfortunately, things in practice are not as simple as that in principle. Specifically, 
the documentation of a lump sum contract may include a set of bills of quantities, 
prepared by quantity surveyors to prescribe the details of particular work items with 
quantities. Errors or omissions often exist in the bills of quantities for construction 
projects (Adrian 1993). The contractor accordingly requests contract modification and 
additional payments for the errors when the errors are discovered during the course of 
performance. The prevailing standard contract forms nowadays, for example JCT SBC/Q, 
often contain provisions for the adjustment of the lump sum price if there are errors in the 
bills. Any error or omission in the bills shall be corrected and deemed to be a variation. In 
other words, the owner under JCT SBC/Q should compensate the contractor for the 
quantity difference due to errors in the bills. The result is opposite to the Inclusive Price 
Principle. As such, it remains to be a very controversial issue that whether under a lump 
sum contract, the contractor should be granted remedy for discrepancy between the 
quantities stated in the bills and the as built quantities. If the owner subsequently agreed 
to increase the fixed price due to the quantity difference, when may the modification be 
justifiable and thus enforceable? A variety of theories and practices keep competing with 
one another on this issue. 
Economic analysis evaluates legal rules by the structure of incentives they 
established and the consequences of how people alter their behavior in response to those 
incentives (Friedman 2000). Comparing among the various equilibrium behaviors of the 
owner and bidder respectively under different legal rules enables us to assess the effects 
of the laws in terms of economic efficiency. From the perspective of law and economics, 
we develop in this study a refinement of the contract modification rules that address 
issues on quantity differences under construction lump-sum contracts. The contracting 
parties’ strategic behaviors under alternative modification rules are to be examined in our 
study. 
In section 2, we go through a brief discussion of the problems of contract 
modifications and quantity differences under construction contracts in order to highlight 
significance of the issues addressed in this paper. Section 3 describes the model and 
analyzes equilibrium strategies of contracting parties under alternative legal rules. 
Section 4 draws conclusions and shows the optimal legal rule that governs the contracting 
parties’ strategic behaviors in dealing with potential errors in the bills. Our analysis 
concludes that the contract modification rule under which the enforceability of a promise 
to pay additional amounts for errors in the bills of quantities is contingent upon the nature 
of the errors can discourage opportunistic behaviors between the contracting parties and 
achieve economic efficiency. 
2. Problems of Contract Modifications due to Quantity Differences 
2.1. Enforceability of Contract Modification That Grants Additional Payments 
The issue on additional payments for quantity difference of the construction contract is 
relevant to the contract modification law. In light of the traditional common law, pre-
existing duty rule governs the enforceability of the modification of contract. The Rule 
provides that modifications of a contract not supported by “fresh consideration” would be 
unenforceable such that extortion or coerced modification would not be encouraged 
(Patterson 1958). In other words, a promise to make additional payment for which the 
 4 
Nevertheless, the opposite opinion claims that a requirement to use a standard 
method does not thereby constitute a warranty of accuracy of the bills (Thornton 2007). 
Traditionally, by the virtue of lump sum, the total price of lump sum contract cannot be 
altered, except for variations of the project occurring during the course of the 
performance. Any contractual documents showing work items and unit prices exist 
merely for the purpose of valuing such variations. Any bills of quantities found in 
association with lump sum contracts have no legal effect beyond their use in the valuation 
of variations and, in some cases, as a basis for interim payment. Indeed, such bills may 
not even perform these functions, and may simply be used as a guide issued to bidders in 
the tender phase so as to reduce the time and expense of the estimating process required 
to arrive at the “Lump Sum.” In an old English jargon, such bills “do not form part of the 
contract”, and the contract remains essentially a “Lump Sum” contract (Wallace 1975). 
Wallace (1975) further explicated that claims brought by the contractor for errors in 
the bills “are essentially without merit, because either (a) the contractor has noticed the 
‘error’ in the Bills when pricing, and if he intended to claim was stealing a march on 
both the employer and his competitors in tendering an apparently lower price or (b) he 
has not noticed the ‘error’, in which case his prices will in any event have included for 
the process or contingent expenditure involved.” He suggested that the successful bidder 
should be contractually obliged to disclose the detailed make-up of its tender prices 
before the contract is signed such that bills of quantities could perform the function of 
permitting an accurate comparison of tenders, or precise measurement or valuation of 
variations or interim payment. However, even if the contract law imposed compulsory 
obligation on the contactor to disclose the detailed make-up, those figures could be easily 
manipulated and distorted if the contractor’s incentive of exploiting its private 
information was not properly removed. Practically, such a proposal might not be able to 
properly resolve the problem. 
Thornton further explored the Inclusive Price Principle of English law introduced in 
the authoritative book, the 11th edition of Hudson’s Building and Engineering Contracts. 
The principle provides that work that is indispensably or contingently necessary for 
completion should have been included within the contract price. Since for most 
construction contracts, there would always be some element of uncertainty about the 
extent of work and the final price prior to completion of the work, the design process 
would never have been fully completed at the time the contract is made. Therefore, any 
indispensable or contingent work must be carried out at the contractor’s own expense and 
will not qualify for additional payment (Thornton 2007). Thornton tried to argue the 
irrationality of passing the risk of paying for unascertained indispensably or contingently 
necessary work onto the owner. However, he drew the conclusions without giving clear 
analysis to the distribution of risks. Especially, the inefficiency led by the owner’s 
strategic behavior did not obtain substantial consideration. 
2.3. Strategic Behaviors in Bidding 
Contractors are potentially able to enjoy greater profits from unbalanced bidding 
although it is also possible for them to incur additional risk. Contractors have the 
advantage over owners in this regard by having available to them their own private 
information about their estimates of a project’s cost due to their professional ability. 
 6 
estimated quantity is considered as the latent error, which is not professionally noticeable 
by experienced contractors from their basic preparation. Naturally, to detect the latent 
error entails higher marginal costs in comparison with the cost for detecting obvious 
errors in the basic bid preparation process. 
Then, with the private information of the quantity deficiency, the bidder chooses to 
either reveal whatsoever discovered or use unbalanced bidding strategy. While revealing 
those errors discovered, the bidder requests the owner to correct the deficiencies, in 
which the quantity of the specific work item in the bills will be modified and the lump 
sum price will be adjusted accordingly. The adjustment involves in a re-examination 
process of the bills of quantities, in which a cost is to be incurred by the owner. 
Alternatively, while concealing whatever errors discovered, the bidder uses unbalanced 
bidding strategy and attaches to the underestimated work item a skewed unit price, rather 
than the bidder’s actual unit cost. 
Finally, during the performance of the contract, the contractor will reveal all the 
errors, which have not been corrected before contract awarding, and request contract 
modification to compensate for those quantity deficiencies. 
Following such set up, this paper uses the game theoretic analysis evaluate the 
various legal rules: when is the contract modification that compensates for errors in the 
bills of quantities justifiable? We first focus on equilibriums under different legal rules 
for error compensation in section 3.2, and then turn to the refinement of the legal rules in 
section 3.3. We shall compare the effects of different legal rules on the strategic behavior 
of the bidders as well as the owner and the corresponding transaction costs incurred by 
both parties in examining and preparing the bills. This analysis aims to derive the 
contractual rule under which the opportunistic behavior may be lessoned and the 
transaction costs minimized. 
3.2. Equilibriums Under Different Legal Rules for Error Compensation 
In this section, we address the obvious error possibly existing in the bills of quantities, 
which may be discovered through the basic procedure for bid preparation. 
First, attention is given to the parties’ equilibrium behaviors under which the legal 
rule allows contract modification that compensates for all errors in the bills. For instance, 
JCT SBC/Q provides that errors will be corrected and treated as variation in the execution 
of project. In other words, the contract modification due to the existence of errors in the 
bills may be justifiable and expected when the errors are discovered during the course of 
performance. The contract price should be adjusted in accordance with the unit price 
previously broken down by the bidder and set forth in the contract documents. 
In this dynamic game, the owner determines the level of efforts invested in the 
design management, in which a cost is incurred by the owner. The bidder chooses from: 
(1) concealing the obvious errors discovered and submitting unbalanced bids, or (2) 
revealing the obvious errors and requesting correction. 
Because the legal rule grants compensation to the contractor for errors in the bills of 
quantities, the bidder has an incentive to exploit their private information for seeking 
extra profit from the compensation. Plus, the owner faced with the claim has difficulty to 
demonstrate that the unit price previously quoted by the contractor was manipulated and 
skewed since the bidder’s cost structure is virtually unverifiable. Thus, to conceal the 
 8 
to reveal errors discovered through their basic process of tender preparation and request 
rectification before submitting the bid. The owner accordingly will use a reasonable 
effort in the design management, in which the hidden transaction costs due to information 
withholding can be substantially reduced. Therefore, the greater net gain and efficiency 
may be achieved by distributing the risk of errors to bidders and forbidding the contract 
modification. 
3.3. Differentiating the Errors: Obvious Errors and Latent Errors 
One major problem in previous equilibrium under the rule of compensating of errors is 
that the bidder cannot easily detect those minor errors and the owners may take advantage 
of this fact by intentionally plotting such errors or reducing the design efforts to allow 
many minor errors. As a result, the bidder will be forced to expend higher marginal costs 
for detecting minor errors to balance the loss due to the uncompensated errors. In order to 
resolve this problem, here we refine our analysis by differentiating the errors into obvious 
errors and latent errors.  
Having predicted bidders’ behavior, the owner might consciously create, by itself or 
via the designer, latent errors in the bills. The opportunism on the side of the owner shall 
also be taken into account, especially in which the potential errors faced by the parties are 
latent. As Browning and Cohen pointed out, for the culture of construction industry, 
especially under the lump sum price scheme, “not only is the information on which the 
contractor is to base his price inadequate but the client then seeks to transfer as much of 
the risk as possible onto the contractor” (Browning and Cohen 1998). It is implied that 
the strategically rent-seeking behavior of contracting parties is so real and evident. There 
may be an incentive for the owner to skew the bills and to specify work quantities that are 
different from the values actually estimated (Missbauer and Hauber 2006). Insisting on 
the Inclusive Price Principle while addressing latent errors in the bills of quantities may 
result in the owner’s strategic distortion of the bills and, thus, inefficient allocation of 
resources. Instead, enforcing the compensation for the latent errors may economize on the 
transaction costs and maximize the total gain of both parties. 
To refine our legal principles for error compensation, we address the parties’ 
equilibrium behaviors under the legal rule that allows contract modification that 
compensates for latent errors in the bills. In order to discover those latent errors and 
submit unbalanced bids, the bidder needs to conduct further investigation with high 
marginal costs in addition to its basic process of preparation for the bid. Otherwise, the 
bidder may choose to simply submit the balanced bid without expending in further 
investigation of latent errors. It is obvious that the additional cost may be too significant 
for bidders to detect the latent errors for using unbalanced bidding strategy. On the other 
hand, since the bidder will be compensated for latent errors later discovered during the 
performance of works, the owner will have no incentives to intentionally plot latent errors 
or reduce the design efforts to allow many latent errors.  
To summarize, the legal rule that allows contract modification that compensates 
errors in the bills of quantities cannot induce bidders to expend more in detecting latent 
errors in the bills. Although the latent errors cannot be discovered and corrected at the 
tendering stage, the owner will subsequently compensate the contractor the exact cost 
overrun for the erred work item, and no extra profit will be sought by the contractor. On 
the other hand, if the latent errors cannot be compensated, from the long-term point of 
 10 
the owner from manipulating the bills of quantities and causes none of the parties to 
expend unnecessary costs in examining the bills. Neither party would be worried about 
the opportunistic behavior that might be adopted by the other party. As a result, the 
contingent rule under which contract modification compensating for errors in the bills is 
justifiable only if the errors are latent may achieve efficiency by discouraging 
opportunism and minimizing transaction costs. 
Reference 
Adrian, J. J. (1993). "Construction Claims: A Quantitative Approach." Stipes Pub Llc. 
Atkinson, D. (2000). "Bills of Quantities." Retrieved February 14, 2008, from 
http://www.atkinson-
law.com/cases/CasesArticles/Articles/Bills_of_Quantities.htm. 
Browning, R. and L. Cohen (1998). "The Pre-tendering Process Revised." Construction 
Law Journal 14(4): 251-257. 
Cattell, D. W., P. A. Bowen, et al. (2007). "Review of Unbalanced Bidding Models in 
Construction." Journal of Construction Engineering and Management 133(8): 
562-573. 
Dorter, J. (1991). "Variations." Construction Law Journal 7(4): 281-302. 
Friedman, D. D. (2000). "Law's Order." Princeton, NJ, Princeton University Press. 
Graham, D. A. and E. R. Peirce (1989). "Contract Modification: An Economic Analysis 
of the Hold-up Game." Law and Contemporary Problems 52(1): 9-32. 
Keyes, W. N. (2004). "Government Contracts in a Nutshell." St. Paul, MN, 
Thomson/West. 
McAfee, R. P. and J. McMillan (1986). "Bidding for Contracts: A Principal-Agent 
Analysis." RAND Journal of Economics 17(3): 326. 
Missbauer, H. and W. Hauber (2006). "Bid Calculation for Construction Projects: 
Regulations and Incentive Effects of Unit Price Contracts." European Journal of 
Operational Research 171(3): 1005-1019. 
North, D. C. (1990). "Institutions, Institutional Change, and Economic Performance." 
New York, Cambridge University Press. 
Patterson, E. W. (1958). "An Apology for Consideration." Columbia Law Review 58(7). 
Rooke, J., D. Seymour, et al. (2004). "Planning for Claims: An Ethnography of Industry 
Culture." Construction Management and Economics 22(6): 655-662. 
Rycroft, M. and I. Ndekugri (2002). "Variations under the JCT Standard Form of 
Building Contract." Construction Law Journal 18(4): 310-333. 
Thornton, H. H. J. (2007). "The Inclusive Price Principle-A Tribute to I. N. Duncan 
Wallace Q.C." Construction Law Journal 23(4): 276-291. 
Wallace, I. N. D. (1975). "The Use of Bills of Quantities in Civil Engineering and 
Building Contracts." The Journal of Maritime Law and Commerce 6(3): 409-424. 
Wallace, I. N. D. (2004). "Hudson's Building And Engineering Contracts: Including The 
Duties And Liabilities of Architects, Engineers And Surveyors." London, Sweet 
& Maxwell. 
Xavier, G. (2002). "Variations, the Contractor and the Contract Administrator- A 
Threesome? A Look at Malaysia and Singapore." Construction Law Journal 
18(3): 205-232. 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：荷世平 計畫編號：98-2221-E-002-182- 
計畫名稱：不動產泡沫、景氣循環與營建業市場關聯之研究 (II) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
