 2
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ▇成果報告   □期中進度報告 
 
 
在無線感測器網路中智慧型休眠規劃與拓撲控制之研究 
 
計畫類別：▓個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC  99-2221-E-025-011- 
執行期間： 99 年 08 月 01 日至 100 年 07 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立台中技術學院 資訊工程學系 
 
計畫主持人：陳永隆 
計畫參與人員：陳萬仁、黃煒翔、林昱成、丁偉峻、蘇嘉雄 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：▓精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
▓出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年▓二年後可公開查詢 
 
 
 
 
 
 
中   華   民   國  100 年 07 月 30 日 
 4
本計畫執行上十分順利、而且結果豐碩，主要執行成果已發表在國際期刊兩篇、國際研討會一篇與國
內研討會兩篇。所發表刊物名稱、卷期及出版日期如下： 
國際期刊(Journal): 
[A1] Young-Long Chen, Fu-Kai Cheung and Wei-Jun Ding, “An Efficient Scheme with a Coverage 
Algorithm to Improve the Performance of LEACH Architecture in a Wireless Sensor Network,” to 
appear in Sensor Letters, 2012 (SCIE, Impact factor =0.602) (ISSN :1546-198X) 
[A2] Young-Long Chen*, and Wan-Ren Chen, “A Particle Swarm Optimization with Taguchi for Cluster 
Heads Election in Wireless Sensor Networks,” to appear in Applied Mathematics & Information 
Sciences, 2012 (SCIE, Impact factor =0.642) (ISSN : 1935-0090)  
國際研討會： 
[B1] Young-Long Chen*, Neng-Chung Wang, Chin-Ling Chen and Yu-Cheng Lin, “A Coverage Algorithm to 
Improve the Performance of PEGASIS in Wireless Sensor Networks,” Proc. 12th ACIS International 
Conference on Software Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, Networking and Parallel/Distributed 
Computing (SNPD 2011), Sydney, Australia, July 6-8, 2011. (EI) 
 
國內研討會： 
[C01] 陳永隆、張富凱、許丕榮、林家生，“應用覆蓋演算法於一個新的無線感測器網路架構， ” 2010
全國電信研討會(NST)，桃園，Dec. 3-4, 2010. 
[C02] 陳永隆、張富凱、許丕榮、蘇嘉雄，“在無線感測器網路中一個增進 LEACH 架構之系統效能的
有效策略， ＂ WASN2010，台北，Sept. 2-3, 2010.  
 
此外，目前正撰寫一篇文章將投搞至國際期刊。 
詳細報告內容請見以下發表於國際期刊的一篇論文[A2]。 
54 
Young-Long Chen et al 
receive data from its neighboring node. In each round, one node was selected randomly 
from the chain, the data was then gathered and sent to the base station so as to reduce the 
number of nodes of direct communication with the base station. The method proposed in 
literature [4] was base station controlled dynamic protocol (BCDCP), in that method, the 
generated cluster size was the same so as to avoid the loading of cluster head and to 
balance the energy dissipation of each node. The cluster protocol introduced in [5] is 
called low-energy adaptive clustering hierarchy (LEACH). LEACH architecture is a 
basic cluster protocol, which includes the formation of distributed cluster, and cluster 
head will be randomly selected among the nodes. That algorithm operates periodically, 
and it has the probability to become cluster head in each period so as to ensure that each 
node will become cluster head once at least within 1 / P  round. Here, P  is the preset 
cluster head percentage. LEACH architecture organizes its operation into two phases [5-
8], and the first phase is the setup phase which is used to form the cluster, the second 
phase is stable-state phase which is used for data communication process. The application 
of particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm in solving cluster issue of a WSN had 
been proposed in [9]. The author tried to, within each cluster, balance the number of node 
and candidate cluster head, at the time while energy dissipation was reduced, the data 
transmission of node was also enhanced. The effective selection of cluster head can 
balance the energy dissipation of each node so that WSNs can reach optimized energy 
efficiency [10]. In [11], PSO algorithm was proposed to be applied in selecting optimal 
node as cluster head, the protocol proposed by the author can make nearest distance 
between the cluster head within the cluster and the cluster member, and the energy 
dissipation of the entire network was thus optimized. However, the parameter selection of 
PSO algorithm will affect the selection of cluster head. The difference between our 
proposed algorithm and that of [11] is that the parameter selection of PSO algorithm is 
the optimal value calculated using Taguchi algorithm. Since Taguchi algorithm is capable 
of using smaller number of experiments to find optimal parameter value, in literature 
[12], the author used Taguchi algorithm to find optimal cost function for economic 
dispatch issue. In this paper, the errors of original algorithm, generating in the method of 
calculating the most extreme point position in impulse function directly, are put forward 
and given the in-depth analysis. And the improvements are proposed accordingly, that is 
to combine with the method of surface fitting to calculate a local extreme point position 
(sub-pixel shift value).It reduced the error of original algorithm to register the image with 
non-integer pixels’ shift and improved the estimated accuracy of rotation and scaling 
parameters. The result of experiment proved our assumption. 
This paper, based on LEACH architecture, associated PSO algorithm and Taguchi 
algorithm to select the optimal cluster head so as to reduce the energy dissipation and to 
extend the lifetime of WSNs. Here we have proposed PSO-LEACH architecture with 
Taguchi algorithm, the above-average energy of each node within the cluster and the 
most neighboring node number was used as our cost function to find out the largest cost 
function of node to be used as cluster head. Meanwhile, the optimal cluster number was 
used to decide the needed cluster number so as to achieve the objective of the 
enhancement of WSNs energy efficiency. Since the parameter selection of PSO algorithm 
has very large influence on the system performance, hence, in order to achieve the 
reduction of the energy dissipation in the node and to increase the utilization lifetime of 
WSNs, this paper also proposed the use of Taguchi algorithm to find out the optimal 
parameter value of PSO algorithm.  
56 
Young-Long Chen et al 
total deployed number of nodes in a WSN, ( )ip t  it that the node will use certain 
probability function to decide whether it is to become a cluster head, i  is the number of 
each node, k  is the cluster quantity. 
After deciding the cluster number of the WSN, the next thing is to calculate the 
probability for each node to become the cluster head, which is to ensure that the same 
node will not act continuously as cluster head, meanwhile, the probability for the node 
that does not act as cluster head to become cluster head will then be increased, The 
probability to be elected as cluster head is 
:    ( ) 1
( mod )( )
0                            :   ( ) 0
,
i
i
i
k
C t
K
K k rp t
k
C t

 


  (2.4) 
where r  is the current round, and each node will act once as cluster head for an average 
period of K k  round. ( ) 1iC t   means that the node does not act as cluster head before, 
( ) 0iC t   means that it has acted as cluster head, after all nodes have acted as cluster 
head, it will be reset the status into 1, that is, all nodes are ( ) 1iC t  .  
When cluster head is decided, the next thing is to prepare the size of each cluster. 
Each cluster head will use one media access control (MAC) layer protocol: non-persistent 
carrier-sense multiple access (CSMA) [13] will send out one advertisement (ADV) to all 
the nodes. Each node will, depending on the ADV message strength received, decide 
which cluster it belongs to. In order to ensure no collision occurs during the transmission 
process of data, cluster head will set up a time division multiple access (TDMA) schedule 
to the member of the cluster, TDMA [14] to divide the transmission time using time slot 
so as to avoid the occurrence of collision during the transmission. In the time not 
belonging to its own time slot, node can be converted into sleep mode so as to save the 
energy dissipation, the next is the stable-state phase.  
The second phase is the steady-state phase, the data sensed by nodes within the 
cluster does not need to be transmitted to base station directly, instead, it is transmitted to 
the cluster head first. Cluster head will then make cluster operation on the collected data 
and the data collected by itself, next, it will be transmitted to the base station. Therefore, 
LEACH architecture, within each cluster, will have significant decrease in the total 
frequency of data transmitted to base station, and the energy dissipation will be greatly 
decreased too. 
LEACH Optimal Cluster Number. Ideal cluster mathematical model supposes the 
distance between cluster head and cluster head is the expected average distance, and the 
distance between cluster member and cluster head, that is, the distance between cluster 
head and cluster head is the same, and the distance between each node is also the same. 
The mathematical induction of optimal cluster number had been proposed by [5].  
In the sensing range of M M , K  nodes are evenly deployed. In a WSN with k  
clusters, on the average, each cluster will have K k  nodes, and there will be one node as 
cluster head, and toBSd  is the distance between cluster head and base station. optk  is the 
optimal cluster number which can be represented as: 
58 
Young-Long Chen et al 
the optimized cluster head location has the features of above-average energy and the most 
neighboring nodes. In PSO algorithm, appropriate adjustment of the value of 1c , 2c ,   
and   will affect the search result, hence, in the next section, we are going to use 
Taguchi algorithm to adjust these four factors.  
Taguchi Algorithm. Taguchi algorithm design of experiment is a way that can 
quickly optimize different factors to acquire the most perfect result [12, 17]. Typical 
orthogonal array is named by ( )HTL Q , where T  is the total number of experiments. Q  
is the number of level of each factor. H  is the number of factor. Letter L  is the original 
name of orthogonal array: Latin square.  
In this paper, Taguchi algorithm is adopted to adjust PSO algorithm parameter and 
the weighting cost function. Our selected factors are 1c , 2c ,   and  , each factor has 
three levels. The appropriately selected orthogonal array is 49 (3 )L , which is as in Table 1. 
4
9 (3 )L  means that there are 9 sets of experiments and 4 factors, each factor has three 
levels, where jJ  is cost function representation as calculated by j th experiment, 
1, 2,...,9j  . ( )qhS  is the total contribution cost function, h  is the factor number, 
1, 2,...,h H . q  is level number, 1,2,...,q Q .  
Table 1. Orthogonal array 49 (3 )L . 
Test Number 1c  2c      Cost 
Function 
1 1 1 1 1 1J  
2 1 2 2 2 2J  
3 1 3 3 3 3J  
4 2 1 2 3 4J  
5 2 2 3 1 5J  
6 2 3 1 2 6J  
7 3 1 3 2 7J  
8 3 2 1 3 8J  
9 3 3 2 1 9J  
Contributions of level 1 
(1)
1S  
(1)
2S  
(1)
3S  
(1)
4S   
Contributions of level 2 
(2)
1S  
(2)
2S  
(2)
3S  
(2)
4S   
Contributions of level 3 
(3)
1S  
(3)
2S  
(3)
3S  
(3)
4S  
 
 
The calculation of total contribution cost function is the sum of cost function value 
corresponding to the same level test. After the completion of nine experiments, we have 
calculated the total contribution cost function of level 1, level 2 and level 3 of the third 
factor  , which is respectively (1)3S , (2)3S  and (3)3S , where total contribution cost 
function (1)3S  is the sum of 1J , 6J  and 8J , which is as shown in Table 2. We then 
correspond three total contribution cost functions to three levels of each factor, then each 
factor is selected with level value that owns maximal total contribution cost function 
level value, and such level value is then the optimal value of each factor.  
60 
Young-Long Chen et al 
Fig. 2 shows the flow chart of PSO-LEACH architecture with Taguchi algorithm in 
the cluster setup phase. where T  is number of experiments, I  is the iterative number of 
PSO algorithm, O  is whether this parameter is optimal value or not, if yes, it is 1, if no, it 
is 0, our proposed PSO-LEACH with Taguchi algorithm has process flow as in the 
following:   
1. It has initially N  particles, each particle will generate individual velocity and 
location. 
2. Select appropriate orthogonality table:  
First, aiming at four factors of 1c , 2c ,   of Eq. (3.1) of PSO algorithm and   of Eq. 
(3.3) of cost function, each factor has 3 levels, the selected appropriate orthogonal 
table is 49 (3 )L , which is as shown in table 1.  
3. Set up level value of each factor:  
Set up level of each factor 
4. Calculate cost function:  
Calculate the cost function of each particle.  
 Make calculation on all the nodes i , ( 1,..., )i K .  
 From Eq. (3.3)~(3.5), cost function is calculated. Eq. (3.4) is 1f , then calculate 
the ratio between the neighboring node number of a node and the average 
neighboring node number of all the nodes. Eq. (3.5) is 2f , then calculate the ratio 
between node energy and average node energy. After calculating 1f  and 2f , 
substitute them into Eq. (3.5), we can then find cost function.  
5. Find out the location solution:  
After calculating cost function, find out the bestp  of each particle until now, and bestg  
of all the particles searched until now.  
6. Update the velocity and location:  
Use respectively Eq. (3.1) and (3.2) to update particle velocity and location, then use 
Eq. (3.3)~(3.5) to find out cost function.  
7. Update the location of the node:  
Find out the recently updated node as the candidate of cluster head.  
8. Repeat the implementation of iteration:  
Repeat the implementation of steps 4~7 until the maximal iteration is reached.  
9. Parameter experiment:  
For the experiment of each set of parameter, repeat the implementation of steps 4~8 
until the last set of parameter is finished.  
10. Set up PSO algorithm optimal parameter:  
After finishing 9 parameter experiments, based on the level contribution and from the 
larger the better characteristic of Taguchi method, we can find the level combination 
62 
Young-Long Chen et al 
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Rounds
N
um
be
r 
of
 a
liv
e 
se
ns
or
s
 
 
LEACH
PSO-LEACH
PSO-LEACH with Taguchi
 
Fig. 3. Comparison of network lifetime. 
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800
0
5
10
15
20
25
Rounds
T
ot
al
 r
es
id
ua
l e
ne
rg
y
 
 
LEACH
PSO-LEACH
PSO-LEACH with Taguchi
 
Fig. 4. Comparison of total residual energy. 
 
In Fig. 3, we have compared the number of alive nodes in each round of three 
network architectures of LEACH architecture, PSO-LEACH architecture and PSO-
LEACH architecture with Taguchi algorithm.  
PSO-LEACH architecture with Taguchi algorithm has on the average, the first death 
node on round 387, LEACH architecture has on the average the first death node on round 
249, PSO-LEACH architecture has on the average, the first death node on round 324, 
PSO-LEACH architecture with Taguchi algorithm has longer lifetime of the entire 
network by about 55% as compared to that of LEACH architecture, has longer lifetime of 
the entire network by about 19% as compared to that of PSO-LEACH architecture, hence, 
it can be seen that our proposed PSO-LEACH architecture with Taguchi algorithm has 
the longest node survival time, PSO-LEACH architecture is the next and LEACH 
architecture is the worst. 
From Fig. 4, we have also provided the total residual energy of the system to assess 
the lifetime of the entire network. From Fig. 4, it can be seen that PSO-LEACH 
architecture with Taguchi algorithm and PSO-LEACH architecture has the same node 
64 
Young-Long Chen et al 
 
In Fig. 5, we have compared the alive node number in each round of three network 
architectures. In Fig. 5, PSO-LEACH architecture with Taguchi algorithm has on the 
average the first death node of round 441, PSO-LEACH architecture with Taguchi 
algorithm has longer life cycle of the entire network by about 77% as compared to that of 
LEACH architecture, has longer life cycle of the entire network by about 36% as 
compared to that of PSO-LEACH that of LEACH architecture, has longer life cycle of 
the entire network by about 36% as compared to that of PSO-LEACH architecture, hence, 
it is clear that the parameter selection of PSO algorithm will affect the system 
performance.  
In addition, from the node total residual energy of Fig. 6, it can be seen that PSO-
LEACH architecture with Taguchi algorithm and PSO-LEACH architecture has the same 
node total residual energy. But from Figs. 5 and 6, it can be seen that the lifetime of the 
entire network of PSO-LEACH architecture with Taguchi algorithm is superior to that of 
PSO-LEACH architecture, hence, it can be proved that PSO-LEACH architecture with 
Taguchi algorithm can balance the energy dissipation of the node, and the lifetime of the 
entire WSN can then be extended. 
5 Conclusions 
Through the acquisition of the energy dissipation balance of all the nodes, the life 
cycle of a WSN can be extended. Under LEACH architecture, we have proposed a new 
algorithm in association with PSO algorithm and Taguchi algorithm to select the optimal 
cluster head from LEACH architecture, in this paper, we have considered to use the ratio 
of the node energy to average node energy and the ratio of the neighboring node number 
of this node to the average neighboring node number of all the nodes as cost function, 
and Taguchi algorithm is used to adjust the parameters of PSO algorithm. From the 
simulation results, it can be seen that PSO-LEACH architecture with Taguchi algorithm 
with the use of Taguchi algorithm to adjust PSO algorithm will have not only longer 
lifetime as compared to that of PSO-LEACH architecture but also fewer energy 
dissipation in the node. Therefore, it is clear that the use of Taguchi algorithm to adjust 
PSO algorithm parameter can enhance the energy efficiency of WSNs. 
Acknowledgements 
This work was supported in part by the National Science Council (NSC) of Republic of China 
under grant No. NSC 99-2221-E-025-011 and 100-2221-E-025-008. 
References 
[1] I.F. Akyildiz and I.H. Kasimoglu. Wireless Sensor and Actor Networks: Research Challenges. 
Ad Hoc Network. Vol.2, No.4, (2004), 351-367. 
[2] C.S. Ok, S. Lee, P. Mitra and S. Kumara. Distributed Energy Balanced Routing for Wireless 
Sensor Networks. Computer & Industrial Engineering. Vol.57, No.1, (2009), 125-135. 
[3] S. Lindsey, C. Raghavendra and K.M. Sivalingam. Data Gathering Algorithms in Sensor 
Networks Using Energy Metrics. IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems. 
Vol.13, No.9, (2002), 924-935.  
[4] S.D. Muruganathan, D.C.F. Ma, R.I. Bhasin and A.O. Fapojuwo. A Centralized Energy-
Efficient Routing Protocol for Wireless Sensor Networks. IEEE Communications Magazine. 
66 
Young-Long Chen et al 
interests include wireless communications, wireless sensor networks, information 
security, digital signal processing, fuzzy neural networks and embedded systems. 
 
Wan-Ren Chen received the B.S. degree in department of computer 
science and information engineering from National Taichung 
Institute of Technology, Tai-Chung, Taiwan, in 2010, he is currently 
an Student in department of computer science and information 
engineering from National Taichung Institute of Technology, Tai-
Chung, Taiwan. His research interests include wireless sensor 
networks, and embedded systems. 
 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
計畫編號 NSC 99 － 2221  － E － 025 － 011 － 
計畫名稱 無線感測器網路中之繞送協定演算法的有效率能量分析 
出國人員
姓名 陳永隆 
服務機構
及職稱 
  國立台中技術學院資訊工程系 
副教授 
會議時間 99 年 7 月 6 日至 99 年 7 月 8 日 會議地點 澳大利亞 Sydney 
會議名稱 
(中文)軟體工程人工智慧網路與平行分散計算國際研討會 
(英文) International Conference on Software Engineering, Artificial 
Intelligence, Networking and Parallel/Distributed Computing 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)一個覆蓋演算法改善 PEGASIS 的性能於無限感測器網路 
(英文)A Coverage Algorithm to Improve the Performance of PEGASIS in 
Wireless Sensor Networks  
 
 4
建議下列數點：  
1. 對於各學會（例如 IEEE，ACM）每年定期的會議應多鼓勵學者參加，並增加補助名額及補助金
額，以提昇國內形象，促進交流。同時也可幫助學界及工業界瞭解國際科技的發展現況，以提
高教學品質。 
2. 應鼓勵國內學術界或工業界爭取舉辦類似本會議的國際會議，則不僅可以增加我國在國際間的
形像，更可以提供國內廠商與國際知名廠商互相瞭解及合作的機會，同時也可以為我國觀光事
業注入新活力。 
 
四、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
此次會議的論文集光碟片，此論文集將存放於國立台中技術學院之個人及實驗室，以供各界參考。
此外個人也攜回一些 Conferences 之 Call for Papers。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Coverage Algorithm to Improve the Performance of PEGASIS in Wireless Sensor 
Networks 
 
Young-Long Chen 
Dept. of Computer Science 
and Information 
Engineering 
National Taichung Institute 
of Technology 
Taichung, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
e-mail: ylchen66@ntit.edu.tw 
 
Neng-Chung Wang 
Dept. of Computer Science 
and Information 
Engineering 
National United University 
 Miao-Li, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
e-mail: ncwang@nuu.edu.tw 
 
 
Chin-Ling Chen 
Dept. of Computer Science 
and Information Engineering 
Chaoyang University of 
Technology 
Taichung, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
e-mail: clc@mail.cyut.edu.tw 
 
 
Yu-Cheng Lin 
Dept. of Computer Science 
and Information 
Engineering 
National Taichung Institute 
of Technology 
Taichung, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
e-mail:s18993110@ntit.edu.tw 
 
Abstract—In wireless sensor networks (WSNs), to save the 
energy consumption of sensor nodes so that the network 
lifetime can be extended is an important issue. In this paper, 
we propose the PEGASIS topology architecture with the PBCA 
(phase-based coverage algorithm) to find the redundant nodes 
which can enter to sleep mode. Therefore, our proposed 
algorithm can reduce the energy consumption of nodes and 
extend the network lifetime. Simulation results show that the 
performances of our algorithm outperformance the LEACH 
topology architecture, the PEGASIS topology architecture, and 
the LEACH with PBCA topology architecture in terms of 
energy consumptions, number of nodes alive, and sensing areas.  
Keywords- Energy efficiency, Coverage algorithm, PAGASIS, 
LEACH 
I.  INTRODUCTION  
Wireless sensors are electronic device that can sense and 
transmit in wireless sensor networks (WSNs). As the 
improvement of embedded systems, wireless sensor devices 
obtain more and more advantages. Such as the advance of 
calculating ability, the bigger data processing capability, 
smaller sensor volume and cheaper price [1].WSNs consist 
of a great number of sensor nodes which are capable of 
sensing, measuring and some simple calculation. The main 
energy resource of sensor nodes is usually batteries. Sensors 
connect each other via electronic signal. The energy is 
consumed by sensing data, transmitting, calculating and data 
fusion. Hence, it’s an important issue to reduce the energy 
consumption of WSNs [2-4]. 
Essentially, LEACH (low-energy adaptive clustering 
hierarchy) [5] is a distributed network in which all the sensor 
nodes themselves can be divided into a number of clusters 
with a cluster head (CH) responsible for the collection of 
data sensed by the individual cluster members, data 
aggregation and delivery of processed data to the BS. That is 
the cluster head will consume more electricity than other 
members, implying that such cluster head will inevitably 
perish ahead of time. Thus all the members are required to 
serve as the cluster head in turn as a way to uniformly 
distribute the energy load to each sensor node. To improve 
WSNs efficiency, the proposed method [6-7] find out the 
redundant sensor nodes which are be covered by other sensor 
nodes. And let the redundant sensor nodes enter to sleep 
mode. In [8], phase coverage is employed as a criterion to 
determine whether the target node is k-coverage. As a 
polynomial-time algorithm operated in an efficient manner, 
this method is utilized to identify whether the sensing range 
is fully covered by neighbor nodes. At last the network 
selects the redundant sensor nodes to enter to sleep mode.  
In this paper, we propose a new method that combines 
the PEGASIS topology architecture with PBCA (phase-
based coverage algorithm). Our proposed algorithm can find 
out the redundant sensor nodes which are covered by other 
sensor nodes. In PBCA, a redundancy node refers to a node 
whose sensing range is covered at least once by its neighbor 
nodes. In other words, it does not affect the overall sensing 
range at all in the absence of such sensor node. Furthermore, 
our algorithm uses the PEGASIS topology architecture from 
all active nodes. In our algorithm, a smaller number of sensor 
nodes are required to cover the same sensor field. Therefore, 
it is an efficient method to reduce the energy consumption of 
the network and extending the lifetime of the network. The 
rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section II refers to 
the PEGASIS in detail. Furthermore, we propose an efficient 
scheme with coverage algorithm to improve the performance 
of PEGASIS. This section is in connection with the 
operation procedure of PEGASIS. The simulation is then 
analyzed in Section III in order to validate the upgraded 
system performance and this paper is concluded in Section 
IV finally. 
II. THE PEGASIS TOPOLOGY ARCHITECTURE WITH 
COVERAGE ALGORITHM  
A. The PEGASIS topology architecture 
PEGASIS topology architectures [9-11] are mainly 
based on chain architecture. After the construction of chain, 
base station will then select one SN from SNs in the chain to 
be used as leader, each SN will then send the detected data 
to the neighboring node that is nearer to leader, the 
neighboring node that receives the data will then fuse its 
own data and the received data, after the fusion, the data 
will then be sent to the neighboring node that is nearer to the 
leader, such process will be repeated one by one until it is 
transmitted to SN that is set up as leader, then after data 
fusion, the data will be sent to base station, hence, the entire 
WSN will disperse the Energy Load evenly. Leader is one 
SN in WSN with major task to transmit the data to BS. 
chart diagram of PEGASIS topology architecture with 
PBCA.  
Algorithm-PBCA  
Parameter definition 
Define S as the set composed of the sensor nodes enter to 
the sleep mode. 
Define A as the set composed of the sensor nodes enter to 
the active mode. 
Define L as the set composed of the alive sensor nodes. 
Define Node as the number of the alive sensor nodes. 
Define N(vi) as the set composed of neighbor nodes of the 
target sensor node. 
Define D(vi) as the set composed of the circumference of the 
sensor field of vi.  
where D(vi)= { α  | 0o ≦α  360≦ o }. 
Step 1：start. In the first place, all the alive nodes belong 
to A. 
Step 2：Locate N(vi), where vi ∈L 
N(vi)= {vj | d( vi , vj)  ≦ Rs }, where vi ≠ vj and vj ∈  
L and vj ∈  A. 
Step 3：The angle, covered by vi and its neighbor nodes, 
is evaluated as 1
( , )
cos ( )
2
i j
s
d v v
R
θ −= × ,where vj ∈  N(vi) and 
then converted into the relative angle. Delete the 
corresponding angle in D(vi). 
Step 4：Determine whether vi is permitted to enter the 
sleep mode. 
 In case D(vi) is an empty set, then vi is a redundancy 
nodes permitted to sleep, that is, vi ∈  S. Otherwise, vi must 
remain active, i.e. vi ∈  A. 
Step 5 : If i≠Node, i++, go back to Step 2. 
Otherwise, go to Step 6. 
Step 6：Terminate. 
Fig. 3 PBCA algorithm. 
 
1) Active nodes selection: The system will select some 
sensor nodes to be active nodes using PBCA algorithm 
which calculates the sensor nodes which sensing range are 
fully covered by other sensor nodes to enter to sleep nodes. 
2) PEGASIS topology architecture construction: We 
construct the PEGASIS topology architecture by the active 
nodes which are selected to enter to active mode via PBCA 
algorithm.   
3) The Leader node selection: Select the sensors that has 
the farthest distance to base station is used as the starting 
point of chain, then a sensor nodes that is nearest to it will 
be found to become its neighbor nodes, by repeating this 
action several times. Furthermore, we compare the 
performance of four topology architectures in terms of total 
energy consumptions, the number of nodes alive, and total 
sensing areas via simulation results. 
Unlike the LEACH topology architecture with PBCA, 
our topology architecture builds a more efficient routing for 
transmitting data. And it can reduce much more the energy 
consumption of nodes. Wireless sensor nodes can live more 
time in our topology architecture. Furthermore, the total 
sensing area of our algorithm is wider than LEACH 
topology architecture with PBCA for a long time. Therefore, 
our algorithm can achieve maximum sensing coverage with 
minimal energy consumption in each sensor node, and 
prolong the whole network lifetime. 
 
Fig. 4 The flow chart diagram of the PEGASIS topology architecture 
with PBCA. 
III. SIMULATION RESULTS  
The performance efficiency is compared between 
LEACH topology architecture, PEGASIS topology 
architecture, LEACH topology architecture with PBCA,  and 
PEGASIS topology architecture with PBCA. The simulation 
is made in the context of a sensor field of 100m*100m, a 
sensing radius of 15( )r m= , the base station located at (50, 
150), and the rest of parameters specified in Table 1. As 
derived in the optimal cluster number kopt is employed in 
LEACH topology architecture. As can be seen from 
simulation results, our novel scheme, PEGASIS topology 
architecture with PBCA, demonstrates the least amount of 
total energy consumption each round compared with 
[3] I. F. Akyildiz, W. Su, Y. Sankarasubramaniam and E. Cayirci, 
“A Survey on Sensor Networks,” IEEE Communications 
Magazine, vol. 40, no. 8, pp. 102-114, Aug. 2002. 
[4] M. Chatterjee, Sajal K. Das, and D. Turgut, “A weighted 
clustering algorithm for mobile ad hoc networks,” Proc. the 
7th International Conference on High Performance 
Computing, vol. 5, pp. 511-521, Dec. 2000. 
[5] W. Heinzelman, A. Chandrakasan, and H. Balakrishnan, “An 
Application-Specific Protocol Architecture for Wireless 
Microsensor Networks,” IEEE Transactions on Wireless 
Communications, vol. 1, no. 4, pp. 660–670, 2002. 
[6] V. T. Quang and M. Takumi, “An Algorithm for Sensing 
Coverage Problem in Wireless Sensor Networks,” IEEE 
sarnoff Symposium, Princeton, pp. 1-5, Apr. 2008. 
[7] V. T. Quang and M. Takumi, “A Novel Gossip-Based 
Sensing Coverage Algorithm for Dense Wireless Sensor 
Networks,” Computer Networks, vol. 53, no. 13, pp. 2275-
2287, Aug. 2009. 
[8] C. F. Huang and Y. C. Tseng, “The Coverage Problem in a 
Wireless Sensor Network,“ Proc. the ACM international on 
Wireless sensor networks and applications, USA, San Diego, 
Sep. 2003. 
[9] S. Lindsey, C. Raghavendra, and K. M. Sivalingam, “Data 
Gathering Algorithms in Sensor Networks using Energy 
Metrics,” IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed 
Systems, vol. 13, no.  9, pp. 924–935, Sep. 2002. 
[10] S. Lindsey and C. S. Raghavendra, “Data Gathering 
Algorithms in Sensor Networks Using Energy Metrics,” IEEE 
Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, vol. 13, no. 
9, pp. 924-935, Sep. 2002. 
[11] S. Lindsey and C. S. Raghavendra, “PEGASIS: Power-
Efficient Gathering Using in Sensor Information Systems,” 
Proc. IEEE Aerospace Conference, vol. 3, pp. 1125-1130, 
Mar. 2002. 
Table 1 Simulation Parameters 
Variables Value 
Initial energy 0.25initE J=  
Based station location (50,150) 
Radio dissipation 50 /elecE nJ bit=  
Fusion cost 5 / /DAE nJ bit signal=  
Number of bits in data message 4000 l bits=  
Sensed field 100 100m m×  
Number of sensing nodes 100N =  
Radio Attenuation exponent of free 
space free space 2α =  
Radio Attenuation exponent of 
multi-path multipath fading 4α =  
Amplifier dissipation 2100 / /mp pJ bit mε =  
 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳永隆 計畫編號：99-2221-E-025-011- 
計畫名稱：在無線感測器網路中智慧型休眠規畫與拓樸控制之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 5 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
