報告內容：
本計畫之主要執行成果已投稿至 IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology，第二版刻正
審核中。英文版計畫成果報告內容（含前言、研究目的、文獻探討、研究方法、結果與討
論、參考文獻）茲詳列如後頁所示。
nication devices. The interference problem is also significantly reduced because now only nodes with receiving
antennas pointing at the main beam of a transmitting node will be significantly interfered by the transmitting
node. With the interference problem lightened, the system can have a higher user capacity than before.
Although it is promising to apply directional antenna technology to wireless communications, there are still
many things that need to be considered to optimize the performance in different applications. For instance, if we
apply directional antennas to a CDMA wireless network, there are system parameters of the network that need
to be optimized to get the best system performance, such as the mobile density of the network or the code rate of
the channel coding used. In order to optimally determine the system parameters, it is necessary for us to know
how a system will perform under different settings of the system parameters. This is the major motivation of
our project. We want to understand exactly how well does a CDMA wireless network with directional antennas
perform and how to optimize the system design for such network.
In the literature, a few papers [3–6] have attempted to analyze the performance of wireless networks with
directional antennas. However, the beam patterns of the antennas used in these papers were either omnidirec-
tional or very simplified. These results can not be applied to analyze the system performance when a realistic
beam pattern is considered. This motivates us to find an approach to analyze the network performance for an ar-
bitrary beam pattern in a wireless channel. The major goal of our project is to analyze the system performance of
a CDMA wireless network with directional antennas for arbitrary beam patterns over realistic channel models,
and we want to apply the performance analysis to develop a methodology for the system design optimization of
the CDMA wireless network. This will enable us to set the system parameter judiciously to optimize the system
performance of the CDMA wireless network.
In this report, we first derive the outage probability of conventional wireless networks using arbitrary beam
pattern under a realistic channel model, which includes the effects of path loss, shadowing, and Rayleigh fading.
Slotted ALOHA [7] is used for the MAC protocol. By combining with performance analysis of bit-interleaved
coded modulation and turbo codes in [8,9], we can evaluate the performance of a wireless network with specific
coding and modulation used in the physical layer. Later the analysis of conventional systems is generalized to
find the outage probability of direct-sequence spread spectrum (DSSS) and frequency-hopped spread spectrum
(FHSS) systems. The outage probability analysis is then applied to find the system throughput and the trans-
port capacity [10] of the wireless networks. Using this as an example, we show that we can find the optimal
system parameters for any system performance that can be characterized by the outage probability. This en-
ables system designers to find the optimal configuration for such wireless networks. By the way, we prove that
the network transport capacity of a wireless network using directional antennas is of order Θ(
√
λM ), where
λM stands for the node density of the network. The finding conforms with the well known capacity of wireless
networks derived by Gupta and Kumar in [10].
The remainder of this report is organized as follows. In Section 2, a brief introduction to the system model
and the channel model is given. In Section 3, we derive the outage probability of a conventional wireless network
using a simplified beam pattern. The analysis is then generalized to the case of an arbitrary beam pattern. In
Section 4, we analyze the outage probability of DSSS and FHSS networks. In Section 5, the network throughput
and transport capacity are both derived. In Section 6, numerical examples are given. Finally, we address the
conclusions in Section 6.
2 Model Description
Consider a wireless network as shown in Fig. 1. We are interested in the performance of the communication
link between two reference nodes Tx (transmitting node) and Rx (receiving node). We first assume all nodes
use directional antennas for transmission and omnidirectional antennas for reception. Later we will generalize
the analysis to the case where directional antennas are used for both transmission and reception. We assume
all nodes use the same transmitting beam pattern. A typical beam pattern g(θ) is shown in Fig. 2, where g(θ)
denotes the power gain of the transmitting antenna relative to an omnidirectional antenna in the direction of θ
. For an omnidirectional antenna, g(θ) = 1 for any θ. We make no assumption on how the directional antennas
are formed, they can be either mechanically steered or electronically formed. The antennas are assumed to be
devoid of any mutual correlation. Finally it is assumed that all nodes have the perfect knowledge of their own
channels.
We use the same channel model as in [3], shown in Fig. 3. Assume that the distance between Tx and Rx
is r0, and Rx is in the direction of θ0 from Tx. When Tx transmits power PT , the received power at Rx is then
P0 = PT g(θ0) ζ0 ξ
2
0 , where ζ0 accounts for path loss and shadowing effect which is constant for at least a packet
duration T . It is log-normal distributed with conditional probability density function (pdf)
f(ζ0 | r0) = 1√
2piσζ0
e−
1
2
(log ζ0−log(Kr−η0 ))
2
σ2 , (1)
where Kr−η0 denotes the average attenuation level due to path loss. The constant K denotes the average atten-
uation level measured at a reference distance from the transmitting node, and η is called path loss exponent
which ranges from 2.0 to 6.0 depending on the type of channel [11]. In an urban area, η is around 2.7 to 3.5. In
2
number of nodes in a disc of radius a has a Poisson distribution POI(λMa
2). If we assume the direction of any
node to its receiving node is uniformly distributed between 0 and 2pi, then the probability of a node pointing
at Rx with beam i is δi2pi , which is proportional to the angular beam width δi. This implies Ki has a Poisson
distribution POI(λMa
2δi
2pi ). Since Kis’ are independent,
P (Ka) =
L∏
i=1
e
−λMa
2δi
2pi (λMa
2δi
2pi )
Ki
Ki!
. (5)
Among the Ki nodes in the i
th group, the number of nodes that actually transmit packets and thus interfere
with Rx, Ii, is of distribution BIN(Ki, p). Define Ia , (I1, I2, · · · , IL). Then
P (Ia |Ka) =
L∏
i=1
(
Ki
Ii
)
pIi(1− p)Ki−Ii . (6)
To analyze the outage probability, number those Ii interferers in the i
th group from 1 to Ii. The distance
from interferer j in group i to Rx is denoted by ri,j . The pdf of ri,j given the interferer is in the disc of radius a
centered at Rx is of the form
fa(ri,j) =
2piri,j
pia2
=
2ri,j
a2
. (7)
For later use, we define vector ra , [r1, r2, · · · , rL], where ri = (ri,1, ri,2, · · · , ri,Ii), i = 1, 2, · · · , L.
The path loss and shadowing at Rx experienced by the interference from interferer j in group i is denoted by
ζi,j . From (1), we have
f(ζi,j | ri,j) = 1√
2piσζi,j
e−
1
2
(log ζi,j−log(Kr−ηi,j ))
2
σ2 . (8)
Define vector ζa , [ζ1, ζ2, · · · , ζL], where ζi = (ζi,1, ζi,2, · · · , ζi,Ii), i = 1, 2, · · · , L.
The received interference power at Rx from interferer j in group i is denoted by Pi,j . The conditional distri-
bution of Pi,j given ζi,j is exponentially distributed as described in Section 2. The conditional pdf is
f(Pi,j | ζi,j) = 1
PT giζi,j
e
− Pi,j
PT giζi,j . (9)
Define vector Pa , [P1,P2, · · · ,PL], where Pi = (Pi,1, Pi,2, · · · , Pi,Ii), i = 1, 2, · · · , L.
Finally recall that r0, ζ0, P0 are the distance, path loss, and received power at Rx from Tx respectively. Since
Tx is pointing at Rx with beam 1 which has a gain of g1, the CDF of P0 given ζ0 in (3) becomes
F0(P0 | ζ0) = 1− e−
P0
PT g1ζ0 . (10)
Before deriving the outage probability, we first give a high-level description about our derivation process. The
probability P
{
P0
PI (a)+N
< b
}
is determined by b, a, and the realization of a random vector x , (Ka, Ia, ra, ζa,Pa, r0,
ζ0, P0). If we denote the pdf of x by f(x), then φL,r0(b, a) = P
{
P0
PI(a)+N
< b
}
is simply
φL,r0(b, a) =
∫
S
f(x)dx,
where S = {x : P0PI (a)+N < b}. The order of integration (with respect to the elements of x) that we take is: P0,
Pa, ra, ζa, Ia, Ka, and finally ζ0. By first taking the integration with respect to P0 and Pa = {Pi,j}, we can
obtain the conditional outage probability given Ka, Ia, ra, ζa, r0, and ζ0. It can be easily done by first applying
the CDF of P0 in (10) and then integrating with respect to the exponential pdf of the independently distributed
Pi,j in (9). This results in
φL,r0(b, a |Ka, Ia, ra, ζa, ζ0) = P {P0 < bPI(a) + bN |Ka, Ia, ra, ζa, ζ0}
= 1− e− bNPT g1ζ0
L∏
i=1
Ii∏
j=1
[
1
1 +
bgiζi,j
g1ζ0
]
. (11)
Next we take the expectation with respect to ra and ζa, and substitute y for
(
log ζi,j − log
(
Kr−ηi,j
))
, x for(
log ζ0 − log
(
Kr−η0
))
. We can thus obtain
φL,r0(b, a |Ka, Ia, ζ0) = 1− e−
bN
PT g1ζ0
L∏
i=1
[
Ia(x,
gi
g1
)
]Ii
, (12)
4
4 Outage Probability of CDMA Wireless Networks
Consider a DSSS network using directional antenna. Due to the imperfect synchronization, the spreading codes
are not orthorgonal. While it is difficult to analyze such system, we can still have an approximate analysis
of the outage probability if we assume |ρ| the magnitude of the cross correlation coefficient between any two
distinct spreading codes is almost the same for any choice of the spreading codes. Under such assumption, the
approximate outage probability can be obtained as
φr0(b) = 1−
1√
2piσ
∫ ∞
−∞
exp
{
−|ρ| 2η · Λ(b, x) · r20 · [At · Ar]−
b e−x
γc
− x
2
2σ2
}
dx. (22)
For a FHSS network using directional antenna, the exact outage probability analysis is tractable. Assume
the FHSS uses M frequency slots (subchannels) for frequency hopping. The probability for an active node to
actually interfere the target link is then 1M . The outage probability of a FHSS system can be derived as
φr0(b) = 1−
1√
2piσ
∫ ∞
−∞
exp
{
− 1
M
· Λ(b, x) · r20 · [At · Ar]−
b e−x
γc
− x
2
2σ2
}
dx. (23)
5 Analysis of Network Throughput and Transport Capacity
Network throughput and transport capacity are commonly used to measure the performance of wireless net-
works. Both are analyzed in this section for wireless networks with directional antennas.
5.1 Network Throughput
The network throughput of a wireless network is defined as the average number of successfully transmitted
information bits per unit area per second per Hz. It can be approximated by
S(b) ≈ λMp
pi
· R ·
∫ rmax
0
f(r0) (1− φr0(b)) dr0
(
bits
unit area · sec ·Hz
)
, (24)
where λMppi accounts for the average number of simultaneous transmissions per unit area (1/unit area), R is the
rate of the coded modulation used (bits/sec/Hz), and the integral
∫ rmax
0
f(r0) (1− φr0(b)) dr0 is the probability
of successful transmission. We said (24) is an approximation because it assumes the successful transmissions
of different nodes are independent events which is not true in reality since transmitting nodes interfere with
each other. Also recall that f(r0) denotes the pdf of the distance r0 between Tx and Rx which is determined by
the MAC protocol and the network protocol. Since the values of r0 of different Tx-Rx pairs in a network are not
necessarily the same, we need to take the expectation of φr0(b) with respect to r0 when computing the system
throughput.
The system throughput of a wireless network is affected by the node density of the network. When the
density is high, the interference problem becomes more serious and thus the outage probability increases. This
will affect the system throughput in (24). On the other hand, the outage probability is smaller if the density
is low, but since not many nodes are transmitting, this might cause the network resources (bandwidth) to be
wasted without producing much system throughput. Our outage probability analysis can be used to find the
optimal node density for a wireless network. We consider two different f(r0). The first case is that the network
is controlled where all Tx-Rx pairs in the network have the same distance between the two nodes (similar to
the case of mesh network). Hence, f(r0) = δ(r0 − c) where c is a constant. From (24), the system throughput is
approximately
S1(b) ≈ λMp
pi
· (1− φc(b)) · R, (25)
where φc(b) can be computed through (21).
On the other hand, if the network allows a node to transmit signals to any node within a distance of rmax,
then f(r0) =
2r0
r2max
. Substitute φr0(b) in (24) by (21). After some manipulations, we can obtain the system
throughput approximation as
S2(b) ≈ λMp R√
2pi3 σ r2max
∫ ∞
−∞
1− exp{−Λ(b, x) · r2max · [At · Ar]}
Λ(b, x) · [At · Ar] · exp
{
− b e
−x
γc
− x
2
2σ2
}
dx. (26)
5.2 Transport Capacity
The transport capacity of a network characterizes the capability of the network to transport information toward
the destination [10]. It can also be regarded as the accumulated sum of the link progress of the links taken place
6
Tx
Rx
D
is
ta
n
c
e
r 0
Figure 1: Wireless network using directional antennas.
  0.2
  0.4
  0.6
  0.8
  1
30
210
60
240
90
270
120
300
150
330
180 0
Figure 2: Beam pattern g(θ) (generated by 10 antenna elements, AIF: 0.5511 at η = 4 and 0.4545 at η = 2.7).
Tx Rx
Transmitted
Power
P
T
Received
Power
P
0
r
0
Figure 3: Channel between Tx and Rx.
δ 3
δ 2
…
δ
L
δ1
Figure 4: Simplified beam pattern.
8
References
[1] J. C. Liberti and T. S. Rappaport, Smart Antennas for Wireless Communications: IS-95 and Third Genera-
tion CDMA Applications. Prentice-Hall, 1999.
[2] P. H. Lehne and M. Pettersen, “An overview of smart antenna technology for mobile communications sys-
tems,” IEEE Communications Surveys, vol. 2, no. 4, pp. 2–13, 1999.
[3] M. Zorzi and S. Pupolin, “Outage probability in multiple access packet radio networks in the presence of
fading,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 43, pp. 604 – 610, August 1994.
[4] M. Zorzi and R. Rao, “Capture and retransmission control in mobile radio,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas
in Communications, vol. 12, pp. 1289 – 1298, October 1994.
[5] W. Fung, M. Hamdi, and R. Murch, “Performance evaluation of mobile radio slotted aloha with smart
antennas,” IEEE Wireless Communications and Networking Conference, vol. 1, pp. 271 – 275, 1999.
[6] M. Kang, M. Alouini, and L. Yang, “Outage probability and specturm efficiency of cellular mobile radio
systems with smart antennas,” IEEE Transactions on Communications, vol. 50, pp. 1871 – 1877, December
2002.
[7] D. Bertsekas and R. Gallager, Data Networks. Prentice-Hall, 1992.
[8] P. Yeh, S. Zummo, and W. Stark, “Error probability of bit-interleaved coded modulation (BICM) in wireless
environments,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 55, no. 2, pp. 722–728, March 2006.
[9] P. C. Yeh, A. O¨zgu¨r Yı lmaz, and W. E. Stark, “On the error floor analysis of turbo codes: Weight spectrum
estimation (WSE) scheme,” IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory, p. 439, July 2003.
[10] P. Gupta and P. R. Kumar, “The capacity of wireless networks,” IEEE Transactions on Information Theory,
vol. 46, no. 2, pp. 388–404, 2000.
[11] T. S. Rappaport, Wireless Communications. IEEE Press, 1996.
[12] J. G. Proakis, Digital Communications, 4th ed. McGraw-Hill, 2000.
[13] I. S. Gradsbteyn and I. M. Rysbik, Table of Integrals, Series, and Products, 6th ed. Academic Press, 2000.
10
