 附件一 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫期中進度報告 
 
計畫名稱 
材料表面修飾在免疫細胞分流及體外融合瘤單一步驟平台技術之應用(2/3) 
 
計畫類別：v 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC NSC 95-2221-E-002-172 
執行期間：  2006/08/01 ~ 2007/07/31 
 
計畫主持人：林峰輝 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：  
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：v精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，v一年 v二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：台大醫學工程學研究所 
 
中   華   民   國 96 年 09 月 03 日 
Abstract 
 
Hybridoma preparation technique has been developed since 1975 by Koholer and Milsten. 
Rat or mice has been the host to prepare monoclonal antibody. However, one monoclonal 
antibody has to sacrifice one life though it is an animal. If we examined the past process, the 
affinity and specificity of a monoclonal antibody is not promising in clinical applications so that 
lots of adjuvant methods have been developed to increase the antibody’s specificity and affinity 
such as ELISA and concentration gradient. Those methods increase the cost and time consuming.  
In the past, our lab has been developed several methods for materials surface modification. In the 
study, we are going to graft a B cell specific antibody on a materials’ surface. An antigen can 
inject into the rabbit body to stimulate B cell to produce antibody. Peripheral blood can be 
harvested from the rabbit. The B cell can produce a specific antibody after antigen present or 
inject to the rabbit body. The B cell will be caught by a surface modified material and then 
merged with myeloma to produce the hybridoma. Through the method, we can harvest 
monoclonal antibody from the hybridoma without anyone animal sacrificed and tedious process 
to isolate antibody from the blood. 
suspension culture are fed batch and continuous, which ensure high levels of antibody production 
[6]. 
The fed-batch technique implies periodically adding fresh medium (the limiting nutrient or 
the whole growth medium). The concentration of the cells is higher in a fed-batch culture, but the 
culture duration is limited by the accumulation of metabolic waste products and dead cells. In 
continuous culture, fresh media is added permanently, while spent media with or without cells are 
removed. In order to confine the free cells into the continuous reactor, a separation system and a 
recycle has to be added. In the same time, a purge is mandatory to avoid dead cells accumulating. 
Continuous cultures may remain viable for a longer time, as there is no limitation of nutrient 
supply or waste-metabolite and dead-cell accumulation, except for the recycle systems. One of 
the major disadvantages of the continuous mode of operation is the loss of expensive medium 
components and possible changes in the physiology of the cells, due to recycling. 
The response to the specific drawbacks of either of the two dominant operating modes for 
suspension culture of hybridoma cells is the development of optimal control strategies, to curb 
the waste of expensive medium components, to diminish the toll of dead cells and to increase 
mAb production. There is a large potential for optimizing the processes – not only its upstream 
(cells, culture medium and supplements) and downstream (separation and purification) sections, 
but also the bioreactor itself. Assuming that a proper culture representation of the process and a 
suitable performance criterion are available, optimal control theory provides a systematic and 
direct approach to solve fusion and/or continuous distributed control problems. 
Our novel design in continuous mAb production is a modified perfusion chamber without 
any electrical power supply. The driven force of the medium flow is provided by siphon 
phenomenon. The bioreactor is a modified siphon tube which can hold the modified glass beads 
for specific binding of B-cell and fusion in one step (Fig. 1). Obviously, the medium supply bottle 
should be placed higher than the cytoflow-bioreactor, than the gravity will drive the medium into 
the bioreactor.  
In this study, we modified the glass beads first with HMDI [7-10], than coating the same 
antigens we have boosted in the mouse. It is operated conveniently with a better gas-exchanging 
efficiency and without any electrical cost. Furthermore, a large scale of mAb can be produced by 
laying more on the glass beads of the siphon cell culture system.    
 
3. Results and Discussions 
In the study, we design a new device for B-cell sorting, fusing with myeloma cells, and 
screening functioned hybridoma cells that will be finished all the processes for monoclonal 
antibody in one step. The design or device can save time and simplify the tedious process for the 
screening/fusion/sorting in the monoclonal antibody development. 
The design as-so-called cytoflow-bioreactor is a cylinder, as shown in Figure 1. It has two 
parts, medium reservoir and cytoflow-bioreactor, respectively. The volume of the bottle is 10mL 
and the diameter is 2.5cm. During cell cultivation, the two mouths of the inflow were covered 
with a piece of 0.45um filter and connected to the reservoir medium was placed on the the cell 
culture system, by the curved surface. At least 6 bottles can be connected on the spindles 
simultaneously. The cell culture system will outflow the whole reactor when the height of 
medium reach the siphon tube to control revolution speed. The flow speed was controlled by the 
valve connected on the reservoir bottle. The bottles and reservoir bottle were installed in the 
humidified incubator containing 5% CO2 at 37°C. 
 
  
Glass beads 
Culture medium 
Fig.1 (a) Design of cytoflow-bioreactor with siphon phenomenon: The cytoflow-bioreactor 
consisted with main tube to hold glass beads and a S-shaped tube for medium outflow. The upper 
part of the main bioreactor contains two branch tubes for medium inflow and oxygen ventilation. 
The dropping speed of medium will provide a control system of medium outflow. When the 
medium in the main tube reaches over the height of the outflow branching tube, the medium will 
be flushed out by the siphon effect. (b)The cytoflow-bioreactor. (c) Design of the medium 
reservoir bottle: The bottle had multiple medium outflow tubes, which can be connected to the 
cytoflow-bioreactor. Each bottles can supply multiple bioreactors at same time. (d) The medium 
reservoir bottle. 
 
 
Reference 
 
Koholer G and Milstein C. Continuous cultures of fused cells secreting antibody of predefined 
antigene. Nature, 256: 495-497  
Chehroudi B, McDonnel D, Brunette DM. The e!ects of micro-machined surfaces on formation 
of bone-like tissue on subcutaneous implants as assessed by radiography and computer image 
processing. J Biomed Mater Res 1997;34:279-90.. 
D. Kleinfeld, K.H. Kahler, P.E. Hockberger, J. Neurosci. 8 (1988) 4098. 
Xia, Y., and Whitesides, G.M.(1998). Soft lithographic. Angew. Chem., Int.mEd. Engl. 37, 
550-575 
Dewez J-L, Lhoest J-B, Detrait E, Berger V, Dupont-Gillain CC, Vincent L-M, Schneider Y-J, 
Bertrand P, Rouxhet PG. Adhesion of mammalian cells to polymer surfaces: from physical 
chemistry of surfaces to selective adhesion on designed patterns. Biomaterials 1998;19:1441-5. 
Liu SQ, Ito Y, Imanishi Y. Enhancement of cell growth on immobilized cell-growth factor. I. 
Acceleration of the growth of fibroblast cells on insulin-immobilized polymer matrix in culture 
medium without serum. Biomaterials 1992;13:50-8. 
Ito Y, Liu SQ, Nakabayashi M, Imanishi Y. Cell growth on immobilized cell growth factor. II. 
Fibroblast cell adhesion and growth on the poly(methyl methacrylate) film immobilized with 
various kinds of proteins. Biomaterials 1992;13:789-94. 
Ito Y, Uno T, Liu SQ, Imanishi Y. Cell growth on immobilized cell-growth factor. 9. Protein-free 
cell culture on insulin-immobilized microcarrier. Biotechnol Bioeng   1992;40:1271-6. 
Lin FH, Sun JS, Yao CH, A study on grafting and characterization of HMDI-modified calcium 
hydrogenphosphate, Biomaterials, 2001, 22:3179-3189 
Liu SQ, Ito Y, Imanishi Y. Cell growth on immobilized cell growth factor. 4. Interaction of 
fibroblast cells with insulin immobilized on poly(methyl methacrylate) membrane. J Biophys 
Biochem Meth 1992;25:139-48. 
Liu SQ,Ito Y, ImanishiY.Cell growth on immobilized growth factor. 7. Protein-free cell culture 
by using growth factor-immobilized polymer membrane. Enzyme Microb Technol 
1993;15:167-72. 
Liu SQ, Ito Y, Imanishi Y. Cell growth on immobilized growth factor. 5. Interaction of 
immobilized transferrin with fibroblast cells. Int J Biol Macromol 1993;15:221-6. 
Horwitz JI, Toner M, Tompkins RG, Yarmush ML. Immobilized IL-2 preserves the viability of 
an IL-2 dependent cell line. Mol Immunol 1993;30:1041-8. 
Ito Y, Liu SQ, Orihara T, Imanishi Y. Cell growth on immobilized cell growth factor.  
Interaction of fibroblast cells with insulin immobilized on polymer membranes of different 
wettabilities. J Bioact Comp Polym 2001;9:170-83. 
Kuhl PR, Gri$th-Cima LG. Tethered epidermal growth factor as a paradigm for growth 
factor-induced stimulation from the solid phase. Nat Med 1996;2:1022-7. 
Kim EJ, Kang I-K, Jang MK, Park YB. Preparation of insulin immobilized polyurethanes and 
their interaction with human fibroblasts. Biomaterials 2001`;19:239-49. 
S. Britland, P. Clark, P. Connolly, G. Moores, Exp. Cell Res. 198 (1992) 124. 
Xia, Y.,and Whitesides, G. M. (1998)Soft lithographic. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl. 37, 
550-575 
