Introduction
Nerves are not homogenous tissues of monotypic cells. Peripheral nerve regeneration represents a series
of highly specialized processes of healing when considered on a cellular level. The techniques of using
artificial chambers to bridge a severed nerve provide a means for studying these regenerative processes
under controlled experimental conditions. A nerve bridge technique is the introduction of both ends of the
injured nerve stumps into a tubular chamber, which can offer the advantages of minimizing invasion and
scarring of the nerve, aiding guidance of growing fibers along appropriate paths by mechanical
orientation and confinement, and enhancing the precision of stump approximation. A wide range of
synthetic non-degradable and degradable materials has been developed for use as nerve grafts. In the
non-degradable materials, silicone rubber is the most acceptable material used to make the chamber for its
chemical stability, providing continuous support for the regenerating nerves. However, a second surgery
is necessary to remove the conduit which may cause possible damage to the nerve. To eliminate this
disadvantage, a biodegradable nerve chamber seems to offer the greatest promise as an ideal tubulization
material. Recently, polyglycolic acid and polylactic acid have widely been used for tubulization to bridge
damaged nerves.[1,2] In addition, collagen has also been used to fabricate the nerve conduit with
favorable results.[3,4] However, collagen is rather expensive and may express antigenicity in
physiological conditions. With respect to collagen, gelatin, which is essentially denatured collagen, is
much cheaper and biocompatible. Therefore, it has a myriad of uses in food, pharmaceutical, cosmetic,
industries,[5] wound dressings,[6] bone substitutes,[7] extracellular matrices,[8] and neuro-plastics.[9,10]
However, the gelatin must be cross-linked if it is expected to be used as a stable nerve conduit material
without losing its integrity. Different cross-linkers have been used to fix the gelatin, such as formaldehyde,
glutaraldehyde[11] and genipin[12] to make nerve substitutes for transplantation resistant to natural
biodegradation. The objective of this study was to report a novel use of
1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimide (EDC) and N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) to cross-link
the gelatin, synthesizing a biodegradable chamber for establishing a nerve bridge across a 10-mm gap for
rat sciatic nerves. It has been reported that the EDC/NHS is a "Zero-length" crosslinker, not generating
any toxic by-product into the matrix.[13] Temporal and spatial progresses of tissue activity within the
conduit were studied. Physical properties as well as biocompatibility and effectiveness as a guidance
channel for peripheral nerve regeneration were evaluated for the EDC/NHS-cross-linked gelatin (ENG)
material.
Materials and Methods
Fabrication of ENG conduits
A 10% (w/w) solution of gelatin (300 bloom number, #G2500, Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis, MO)
in distilled water at 60°C was prepared by magnetic stirring. A glass rod (1.45 mm OD) was used as a
mandrel vertically dipped into the gelatin solution at a constant speed of 5 mm/sec where it was kept for 5
min. The mandrel was then withdrawn slowly and allowed to stand for 30 min for air-drying. The mandrel
was rotated horizontally consistently to reduce variations in the wall thickness along the axis of the tube.
Eight coating steps were used to obtain a gelatin tube with wall thickness of about 0.4 mm. The
gelatin-coated mandrel was then immersed in a solution containing 0.016 M of EDC and 0.0064 M of
Determination of biodegradation rate
The degradation rates of ENG conduits at different implantation periods could be divided into two
groups . In the first group, the weight losses of ENG conduits after 4 weeks of implantation were in the
range of approximately 20–30%. In the second group, the weight losses were increased sharply
approximately 90% when the ENG conduits were implanted for longer than 8 weeks.
Assessment of biocompatibility
No serious problems were seen for any of the rats in the postoperative period. At 4 weeks
post-implantation, a delicate and thick foreign body capsule (FBC) about 100 µm in thickness along with
active neovascularization was present surrounding the whole implant. A mild inflammatory response was
characterized by an accumulation of cells resembling lymphocytes and macrophages at the site between
ENG conduits and their surrounding tissue (Fig. 2(A)). At the time point of 8 weeks, FBC became thinner
about 20 µm in thickness with a compact structure in which dispersing neocapillaries were seen. Up to
this time, inflammatory reaction decreased remarkably with macrophages digesting the fragmented ENG
conduits. (Fig. 2(B)). At 12 weeks, the ENG conduits had almost been degraded completely. Only
residues of ENG materials were seen (Fig. 2(C)).
Electrophysiological measurements
MAPs were recorded at postoperative intervals of 4, 8, and 12 weeks. Measurements of peak
amplitude, area under the MAP curves, and the NCV were calculated for each nerve. Almost all the
measurements were increased as a function of the experimental period. Specifically, the difference of all
the measurements between the nerves at postoperative intervals of 4 and 12 weeks as well as 8 and 12
weeks reached the significant level at p<0.05.
ENG conduit
ENG conduit
ENG conduit
that the regenerated nerves were well developed and became more mature as a function of the
experimental period.
0.E+00
4.E+05
8.E+05
1.E+06
4 weeks 8 weeks 12 weeks
0
5000
10000
15000
20000
4 weeks 8 weeks 12 weeks
Total nerve area (µm2) Myelinated axon number (#)
0
5
10
15
20
4 weeks 8 weeks 12 weeks
0
15000
30000
45000
4 weeks 8 weeks 12 weeks
Axon area (µm2) Axon density (#/mm2)
Discussion
The main objection for using nondegradable conduits is that they remain in situ as foreign bodies
after the nerve has regenerated. To avoid a second surgery to remove the implant and the potential
confounding factor of postsurgical infection, biodegradable materials seem a more promising apparatus to
reconstruct nerve gaps. However, swelling of degradable tube walls caused by absorption of body fluids
can happen during the nerve regenerative processes.[15] The swelling could occlude the lumen and
therefore impair axonal regeneration. In addition, the cellular activity during the process of material
degradation could evoke neural fibrosis and interfere with nerve regeneration.[16] Another possible
disadvantage of biodegradable nerve guides was seen in our previous study in which we used a
biodegradable genipin-crosslinked gelatin conduit (GGC) to bridge a 10 mm gap in the sciatic nerve of
the rat.[12] The GGCs did not clearly show sign of degradation until 6 weeks of implantation. Since
regenerating nerve fibers can grow across a 10-mm gap in the sciatic nerve of the rat within 4 weeks,[17]
nerve compression by the remained walls of the GGCs could happen. [18,19] This could be the reason
that only unmyelinated axons were seen in the GGCs even after 8 weeks of operation. All these problems
could limit the clinical use of the nerve guides. To sum up, materials for the fabrication of nerve guides
are required to be degrading properly without obvious swelling, as well as suitable mechanical properties
to provide longitudinal support for the regenerating nerves.[9]
