中文關鍵詞： 下泌尿道、膀胱壓力、會陰神經刺激、單側會陰神經損傷 
英 文 摘 要 ： The primary functions of the lower urinary tract 
(LUT) are storage and periodic elimination of urine. 
These functions require reciprocal coordination of 
the urinary bladder and the outlet including bladder 
neck, urethra, and external urethral sphincter (EUS). 
The aim of this study is to develop an integrated 
platform for first providing monitoring urodynamics 
of bladder of animal which lays out the foundation 
for restoring for restoring bladder control function 
for those suffer from damage in nervous system being 
capable of little functional regeneration. The 
present experiment was conducted in 24 pigs. Urethane 
anesthesia was used for all animals in urodynamic 
studies. 10 of 24 pigs under taken a unilateral 
pudendal transaction (UPNT) during physiological 
studies. And urodynamic studies were repeated after 
UPNT. The volume threshold (VT) in normal pigs was 
about 85 ml. The mean of contraction amplitude was 
about 34 cmH2O, and the contraction duration was 
about 1 min. The residual urine (RU) was less than 10 
ml and the voiding efficiency (VE) was above 85%. In 
UPNT group, 8 of 10 pigs had leakages at large 
bladder volumes above 120ml, and increased 
significantly residual urine. The average VT for 
eliciting voiding increased 2-fold in UPNT group 
(about 140 ml) compared to pre-UPNT group (about 78 
ml). RU significantly increased in the UPNT 
(approximately 7-fold of control). The average VE in 
the UPNT group decreased significantly than the pre-
UPNT group. And we observed that middle range 
frequency (33 Hz) on unilateral pudendal nerve 
stimulation could evoke the bladder contraction at 
high bladder volumes about 70-80% volume threshold. 
However, bladder contractions might not have been 
seen when the pudendal nerve was stimulated at lower 
frequencies (10Hz) or high frequencies (50Hz).This 
experiment provided an insight into that in pigs the 
relationship of detrusor and external urethral 
sphincter coordinated is similar to human. The UPNT 
animal model would induce the urinary incontinence 
 i
 Contents 
中文摘要……….……….………………………………………………………………………1 
Abstract…………………………………...…………………….…………………….….….….2 
Chapter 1 Introduction…………………………...……………………………………………4 
Chapter 2 Methods and Meterials………….……………………..…………………………11 
Chapter 3 Results……………..………………………………………………………………18 
Chapter 4 Discussions……………………………………………………..………….………25 
References………………………………………………...…….……………………………..29 
研究計畫成果自評表................................................................................................................34 
 iii
List of Figures 
Fig. 1 Augmenting reflex is the excitation of pudendal urethral afferents facilitated reflex 
bladder contractions…………………………...………………………………..……..6 
Fig. 2 Experimental setup, (a) and lab photo, (b), of acute pig model for recording 
intravesical pressure, volume and EUS EMG…………………………………….....12 
Fig. 3   3(A) Intravesical pressure (top traces) and EUS EMG activity (bottom traces) 
recorded during a continuous transvesical infusion CMG (20 ml/min) in an 
anesthetized pigs. (a) Intravesical pressure and EUS EMG activity was relatively 
stable during the filling phase. (b) Same recordings as of the bracket A shown at 
faster time scale. Vertical calibration: intravesical pressure in cm H2O; horizontal 
calibration: time in min or s. 3(B) CMG and EUS-EMG activity recorded after UPNT 
in the same pig. The leakage appeared at large bladder volume, but no bladder 
contraction was evoked during transvesical infusion. 3(C) CMG and EUS-EMG 
activity recorded after UPNT in a pig taken chronic pudendal nerve transection. 
Bladder pressure is similar as 3(A), and obvious tonic EUS EMG was 
recorded…………………………………………………………………...…….. ….20 
Fig. 4 Bladder responses evoked by pudendal nerve for 20 sec at stimulation frequencies 10 
1 
 
中文摘要 
下泌尿道的主要功能為儲存以及排放尿液，這些功能需要膀胱與周圍的膀胱出口、尿道以
及外尿道括約肌有著良好的互相協調收縮才能達成。尿失禁神經調節器及神經刺激器已經被
應用在嚴重排尿障礙的病人身上，以恢復受損的下泌尿道機能。這類病人通常不能正確感受
到膀胱膨脹，造成尿液滯留在膀胱進而造成重複的泌尿系統感染、腎臟功能受損甚至導致死
亡。我們這次研究的目的是開發一套整合系統，首要目標為針對動物提供一套膀胱動力學監
測系統來補強受損的神經系統並恢復膀胱的功能。 
 
    在本實驗我們一共使用24隻正常迷你蘭嶼猪。在Urethane 麻醉狀況下，記錄膀胱動力學以
及外尿道括約肌肌電圖觀察正常猪隻的下泌尿道功能。而其中10隻在尿道動力學實驗中, 在
單側會陰神經切斷, 前後重複進行尿道動力學實驗。在施行會陰神經切斷前，誘發排尿閾值
約為85毫升，膀胱最大收縮壓力為34 公分水柱，膀胱收縮時間則約為1分鐘。其平均餘尿量
小於10毫升, 總體排尿效率則超過85%。在單側會陰神經損傷後，其中有8隻猪在等速灌注膀
胱實驗中並沒有出現排尿收縮，而是在膀胱容量超過120毫升時開始出現漏尿情況。會陰神經
損傷後的猪隻，其排尿閾值比神經損傷前的猪隻明顯增加(140毫升)，餘尿量更增加了七倍之
多(57毫升)；排尿效率亦明顯下降(57%)。另外有5隻則進行慢性單側會陰神經切除手術，兩
週後發現同樣排尿閾值、餘尿量增加（135毫升，44毫升），排尿效率亦往下降（63%）。最
後使用會陰神經電刺激來誘發排尿反射的實驗，當在膀胱容量在排尿閾值的70-80%時，中頻
（33 Hz）刺激會誘發膀胱收縮及排尿。而在低頻刺激(10Hz)和高頻刺激(50Hz)或是膀胱容量
較低的刺激條件下則無法誘發排尿收縮。同樣的條件，在中低強度下刺激(0.5-0.7mV)會誘發
膀胱收縮及排尿，而在高強度刺激(>1.1mV)則無法誘發膀胱收縮。 
 
    猪隻的膀胱逼尿肌和外尿道括約肌的協同活動和人類非常類似，這說明猪隻很適合作為
進行下泌尿道功能病變的動物實驗。。我們證明單側會陰神經損傷猪隻引發小便失禁，且餘
尿量增加。同時我們證明使用中頻以及中低強度會陰神經電刺激會增進猪隻膀胱收縮以增加
排尿效率。在未來，我們期望透過微小化來整合尿路動力學監控系統和電刺激模式，作為植
入式膀胱控制器，可以當作另一種治療選擇，在嚴重性膀胱缺失的病人進行長時間膀胱電刺
激治療。 
 
 
關鍵字：膀胱壓力、會陰神經刺激、單側會陰神經損傷 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
I. Introduction 
The lower urinary tract (LUT) has two main functions: storage and periodic elimination of 
urine. These functions are regulated by a complex neural control system located in the brain and 
spinal cord which coordinates the activity of the two components of the lower urinary tract: the 
reservoir (urinary bladder) and the outlet (bladder neck, urethra and urethral sphincter). The bladder 
functions are known to be regulated by three sets of peripheral nerves: sacral parasympathetic 
(pelvic nerves) and thoracolumbar sympathetic nerves that innervate the bladder and urethra, and 
sacral somatic nerves that innervate the urethra and external urethral sphincter (deGroat, 
1997)(Cheng, 1997). Normally these structures exhibit reciprocal activity. During urine storage the 
reservoir is quiescent and the intravesical pressure remains in low pressure whereas activity in the 
outlet gradually increases during bladder filling to maintain continence. These organs are regulated 
by three sets of peripheral nerves: sacral parasympathetic (pelvic nerves) and thoracolumber 
sympathetic nerves, which innervate the bladder and proximal urethra, and sacral somatic nerves 
which innervate the external urethral sphincter (EUS) (Pacheco, 1989). 
 
Stress urinary incontinence (SUI) is one of the most common forms of incontinence among 
middle aged women (Thom and Brown, 1998). It can be defined as involuntary loss of urine 
through the urethra secondary to a sudden increase of abdominal pressure in the absence of detrusor 
contraction during events such as sneezing, coughing and laughing. Main risk factors for SUI 
defined as involuntary loss of urine secondary to an increase in abdominal pressure during events 
such as sneezing, coughing or laughing include parity, age and obesity. Childbirth injury to muscles, 
connective tissues and nerves seems to be the most important risk factor for lifetime incontinence 
because damage of pudendal nerves innervating to the external urethral sphincter is often found in 
SUI patients (Takahashi et al., 2000) and about 30% of mothers become incontinent after their first 
vaginal delivery. These findings raise the possibility that pudendal nerve injury that damages the 
5 
 
(ES) to regulate reflex in bladder control, have been proposed for effectively controlling storage 
and evacuation of urine in the urological treatment of voiding dysfunction (van Kerrebroeck, 1991).    
In patients with chronic problems of urge incontinence, urgency/frequency and voiding dysfunction, 
neuromodulation of a sacral nerve with an implantable system can reduce the symptomatology 
significantly (Klingler et al., 2000). To be robust neuromodulation for bladder controller, the 
mechanism involves decreasing bladder overactivity by stimulating peripheral nerves, and includes 
three pathways: (1) at low bladder filling volumes, by direct stimulation of the hypogastric nerve 
through activation of the sympathetic fibers; (2) at maximal bladder filling, by direct stimulation of 
the nuclei of the pudendal nerve in the spinal cord; and (3) due to a supraspinal inhibition of the 
detrusor.  
 
Barrington described the existence of the “augmenting reflex” where excitation of pudendal 
urethral afferents facilitated reflex bladder contractions (Barrington, 1941), and several recent 
studies have provided additional support for the existence of this reflex. Flow in the urethra 
generates activity in pudendal sensory nerve fibers (Le Feber et al., 1998), which activates an 
augmenting reflex to the bladder that increased voiding efficiency by enhancing detrusor 
contraction duration (Figure 2)(Kiruluta et al., 1981). Silencing urethral afferents by administration 
of intraurethral lidocaine reduces bladder activity in animals (Jung et al., 1999) and reduces voiding 
efficiency in human (Shafik et al., 2003). Conversely, electrical stimulation of urethral afferents can 
evoke bladder contractions in animals (Boggs et al., 2005) and human (Gustafson et al., 2004). In 
contract to the urethral afferents, the phasic activation of the external urethral sphincter during 
emptying, as observed in rat, acts as a pumping mechanism to augment bladder emptying (Kruse et 
al., 1993). Recent studies further indicated that the transection of pudendal nerve or administration 
of neuromuscular blockade agents could eliminate EUS activity and decrease voiding efficiency as 
well as increase residual urine in the rat and dog (Cruz and Downie, 2005; Peng et al., 2006).  
7 
 
system gave a satisfactory performance and could be utilized to achieve selective stimulation and 
blocking on various sizes of nerve fibers. The aim of this study is to extend our previous 
implantable microdevice to be an effective device for bladder control as well as for wireless 
sensing device for monitoring bladder conditions, including bladder pressure and bladder volume. 
From the information acquired, urodynamic conditions can be monitored in awake condition, i.e. in 
ambulatory monitoring, which has not been possible in previous studies for anesthetic animals 
(Liang et al., 2005).  
 
Detection of bladder contractions 
While performing nerve stimulation, another important aspect is sensing of bladder condition 
for continuous monitoring or for feedback control purposes. Research indicated that there still lacks 
of a satisfied physiological signal that could correctly quantify the bladder function in any states 
and be used as a feedback control signal for neurostimulation (Jezernik and Grill, 2001; Jezernik et 
al., 2001). Besides the physiological mechanisms in LUT are complicated and relatively unexplored, 
especially on the electrophysiological investigation on micturition reflex pathways and the 
mechanism of neurogenic bladder. Therefore, it is essential to monitor SCI subject’s bladder 
function and perform an in-depth investigation on the mechanism of micturition reflex. In clinical, 
intravesical pressure is the major parameter to assess the state of patients’ LUT conditions. 
Currently, the procedure of urinary diagnosis needs insertion of small long catheters into the urethra 
to bladder and saline filling, which are noxious and non-physiological for patients. This 
uncomfortable procedure is expensive, carries some risks and requires licensed personnel to 
9 
 
possible in previous studies for anesthetic animals (Liang et al., 2005).  
In Taiwan, the population of the disorder of the lower urinary tract (LUT) is very common. The 
demands of urinary diagnosis, treatment, and care have become a major concern. A variety of 
physiologic deficits induce the disorders of LUT functions. Incontinence and urine obstruction are 
the two most common types of LUT dysfunction. Stress urinary incontinence (SUI) is one of the 
most common forms of incontinence among middle aged women (Takahashi, 2000)(Thom, 1998). 
There are millions of women suffered from urinary incontinence (about 10 to 35 percent of women, 
Taiwan)(Chen, 2003). SUI patient are bothered with urine leakage and urinary stink, which elicited 
the hygiene, psychological, and social embarrassing of individuals. 
 
Presently, there is lack of a suitable medical device, which can continuously monitor 
intravesical pressure and LUT function without catheterization. Therefore, the ultimate goal of our 
integrated project is to develop a miniature biomicrosystem for monitoring intravesical pressure, 
bladder volume and electrophysiological signals. The future application of this sensing device can 
be utilized to help for the improvements in urologic diagnosis and care in refining management 
strategies and the treatment of various LUT disorder, for example acute constrictive LUT 
obstruction, detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia DSD in SCI cases, SUI etc. Besides, SUI patients can 
also use the device for self-monitoring the physiological state, and it can also provide researchers 
with data that collected free from stress-induced artifact and the effect of anesthesia. In sub-project 
11 
 
II. Methods and Materials 
We use a pig model by unilateral pudendal nerve transaction(UPNT) for this study. Pig model 
has been one of the most common animal models used to simulate the damage of lower urinary 
tract because the volume of the bladder in pig is similar as in adult men.(Milicic, 2006)(Guan, 
1995)(Sibley, 1985). UPNT results in changes in bladder structure and function that include 
detrusor hypertrophy/ hyperplasia, elevated voiding pressure and overactive bladder (Ghoniem, 
1986)( Speakman, 1987). The transaction of unilateral pudendal nerve induced urine retention and 
decreased voiding efficiency (Peng et al., 2006). The urodynamic results are similar as the spinal 
cord injury animal models (Ali-EI-Dein, 2001). 
Animal preparations 
Acute experiments are performed on female Lanyu pigs aged 3 to 4 months (weight 18 to 25 
kg). Animals undergo a general anesthesia with 2%-2.5% isoflurane inhalation. We monitored the 
heart rate and breathing frequency during the experiment. Body temperature was monitored and 
maintained at 37.8 ℃ by using a infrared electric heater. The urinary bladder was exposed via a 
midline abdominal incision to expose the mid-urethra and external urethral sphincter (EUS). Two 
fine insulated silver wire electrodes (0.1 mm diameter) with exposed tips are inserted into lateral 
sides of the mid-urethra, where muscle fibers of the EUS are identified. A Foley catheter (20Fr, 
7.92mm diameter) is inserted into the bladder lumen. The bladder end of the Foley catheter is 
passed through a small incision at apex of the bladder dome, and the balloon at the tip of the 
13 
 
 
Figure 2. (a) Acute pig model is for recording intravesical pressure, volume and EUS EMG. (b) The 
photo shows the experiment setup in this study. 
 
Physiological investigation 
The urodynamic studies including cystometrogram (CMG) and external urethral sphincter 
electromyography (EMG) usually began 1-1.5 hours after surgery. Urethane anesthesia (1.2 g/kg, 
i.m., supplemented at 0.3 g/kg) by injection in upper and lower limbs was used for all animals. 
After the bladder was emptied, it was filled by continuous transvesical cystometry (CMG) at an 
infusion rate of 10ml/min with physiological saline at room temperature. This procedure would 
produce repeated micturition reflexes at intervals between 5-15mins. Then the transvesical 
cystometry is simultaneously recorded both from the conventional pressure device. The amount of 
infusion to induce bladder voiding contraction is defined as volume threshold. Then we analyzed 
the cystometric parameters from all recording for comparison, including micturition volume 
threshold (VT), the volume of saline sufficient to induce the first voiding contraction, contraction 
amplitude (CA), the maximal contraction amplitudes in pressure during voiding; and contraction 
duration (CD), bladder contraction duration during voiding. Saline voided from the urethral orifice 
was collected and measured to determine voided volume (VV). After voiding volumes were 
collected, the infusion was stopped and postvoid residual urine (RU) was measured by dropping the 
15 
 
bladder pressure from the start of the bladder contraction to the time of detection, and the number 
of false positives. The number of false negatives was considered the most important variable in the 
cost function. As the number of false negatives was minimized, fewer bladder contractions would 
be uninhibited, thus decreasing the chance of losing continence. The delay before detection and 
increase in bladder pressure above baseline before detection were the next two important variables. 
As the delay and increase in bladder pressure were minimized, the bladder pressure would be more 
likely to remain below pathological levels. The least important variable was the number of false 
positives. As the number of false positives increased, more inhibitory stimuli would be delivered 
and the system would approach continuous stimulation. We would find a better cost function to 
determine whether the pudendal nerve ENG could be used to detect the onset of bladder 
contractions as a feedback signal for electrical stimulation in real-time.     
 
Electrical Stimulation of Pudendal Afferents 
  5 pigs were taken pudendal nerve transection after CMG studies. The pudendal nerves were 
approached posteriorly by incising the distal portions of the gluteus major muscles. The ilium and 
sacrum bones were separated and the pudendal nerves were isolated and transected. To ensure the 
nerve transection completely, a segment of nerve(s) (4-5mm) was removed at the time of 
transection. After transection of the pudendal nerves, the over-lying muscles and skin were sutured. 
And Urodynamics studies was repeated after pudedal nerve transaction. 
17 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 (a) The electrical stimulation of pudendal afferents to induce micturition-like reflex. (b) 
the cuff electrode and implanted it on unilateral pudendal nerve of a pig. 
 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
(A) 
 
(B)  
 
 
 
 
 
21 
 
shows the parameters of bladder activity from cystometry study in 24 pigs. Cystometry recordings 
demonstrated bladder contractions and functional micturition reflexes. The volume threshold was 
about 94 ml. The mean of contraction amplitude was about 34 cmH2O, and the contraction duration 
was 1 min. On the other hand, the residual urine was less than 10 ml. The voiding efficiency was 
above 85%. 
   5 pigs were taken CMG investigation after 2 weeks underwent the surgery of right pudendal 
nerve transaction (chronic UPNT). The volume threshold (135.7ml) was significantly higher than 
control pigs. The residual urine (44.2 ml) was also increased almost 5-fold of control in comparison 
to values (94.7 ml) in control pigs. The average voiding efficiency in the UPNT (63.3%) was also 
significantly smaller than the control value (87.7%). But the volume threshold, residual urine and 
voiding efficiency of chronic UPNT was similar as the value of acute UPNT. 
 
Table 2. Compared parameters of bladder activity during CMGs in CNS intact, chronic pudendal 
nerve injured and chronic cuff electrode implantation in pudendal nerve pigs.. 
  VT(ml)  CA(cmH2O) CD(min)  RU(ml)  VE(%) 
Normal 
control(n=24) 
94.7±35.8  34.3±9.4  1.14±0.37 9.3±5.6  87.7±11.5 
Chronic UPNI 
(n=5) 
135.7±35.3*  32.4±6.7  1.24±0.23 44.2±14.9  63.3±11.9* 
Cuff 
electrode(n=4) 
86.4±17.4  30.5±5.8  1.13±0.43 14.7±7.8  82.9±10.5 
 
 
 
 
 
23 
 
 
2D Graph 3
Frequencies(Hz)
10 20 30 40 50
Ti
m
es
0
10
20
30
40
 
Figure 5. The times of bladder contraction induced by different stimulation frequencies in the same 
intensity (0.7mV) were taken 50 times in 10 pigs.   
   The trials of electrical stimulation were used different intensities at 33 Hz in the same pigs 
(0.05,0.1,0.3,0.5,0.7,0.9,1.1,and 1.3 mV). The middle intensity (0.7mV) induced the most times of 
bladder contraction (15 over 30 trials). The intensities that were less than 0.3mV or more than 
1.1mV would not induce any bladder contraction. The other intensities induced less times of 
bladder contraction (less than half of 0.7 mV). 
 
25 
 
IV. Discussion 
Most urodynamic studies in pigs focused on bladder activity, but didn’t evaluate the activity of 
external urethral sphincter (Shaw et al., 2007) (Mills et al., 2000) (Guan et al., 1995). Previous 
urodynamic studies mostly used the small-sized mammals, e.g. rats, guinea-pigs and cats. In rats 
and guinea-pigs exhibit the low amplitude, tonic EUS-EMG activity occurred during the filling 
phase (Chang and Havton, 2008) (Jiang et al., 2008) (Cheng et al., 1997). The EUS-EMG activity 
markedly increased during bladder contractions and consisted of an initial period of tonic activity, 
followed by a bursting pattern of activity. The bursting pattern characterized by clusters of high 
frequency spikes (active period) separated by periods of quiescence (silent period). During the 
bursting period, intravesical pressure decreased and voiding occurred. The similar EUS-EMG 
patterns were shown in cats (Chen et al., 2001). We took urethane for a new anesthesia method in 
pig models during physiological studies because Urethane would anesthetize animals quickly and 
not decrease the EUS activities. In first year of this study, we got EUS-EMG activity recording in 5 
of 8 pigs with isoflurane anesthesia. But we recorded EUS-EMG in all of 12 pigs with urethane 
anesthesia.  
 
The present experiments revealed that unilateral transection of the pudendal nerves induced 
functional disturbance in lower urinary tract, including a decrease in VE and alterations in the 
pattern of EUS-EMG bursting activity. In our previous studies (Peng, 2006), the VT and RU were 
27 
 
(myelinated Aβ) have lower threshold while the unmyelinated c-fibers have highest stimulation 
threshold (Fang, 1991)(Li and Bak, 1976). These results are consistent with bladder excitation 
resulting from activation of the larger myelinated A-type fibers at low stimulation amplitude (0.5 
and 0.7mV).  
  Afferent firing in the deep perineal branch of the pudendal nerve could be evoked by flow of 
urine through the urethra (Todd, 1964) that initiated bladder contraction through a spinobulbospinal 
reflex loop (Barrington, 1941). The reflex pathways between pudendal afferents and bladder and 
sphincter efferents must lie caudal to T12 because the reflex persisted after acute spinalization 
(Boggs, 2005). The coincident activity in bladder stretch receptors and pudendal afferents activated 
the spinal micturition reflex. The micturition reflex supported a fact that the brain stem could not 
involve a micturition pathway. Somatic pudendal and visceral pathways converge within the 
marginal zone, intermediate gray, and dorsal gray commissure of sacral segments S1 and S2 (Thor 
et al. 1989), regions containing putative interneurons known to be active during micturitionlike 
activity and pudendal nerve stimulation in animals with an intact neuraxis (Grill et al. 1998). 
Neurons in these regions may mediate the spinal micturition-like reflex elicited through activation 
of pudendal afferents. 
  
    In summary, this experiment revealed the coordinated relationship of detrusor and external 
sphincter f lower urinary tracts in pigs were similar to human (Takahashi et al., 2000). It implicated 
29 
 
References 
1. Abrams P, Cardozo L, Fall M, Griffiths D, Rosier P, Ulmsten U, van Kerrebrokoeck P, Victor A, 
and Wein A. The sstandardisation of terminology of lower urinary tract function: report from 
the Standardisation Sub-committee of the International Continence Society. Neurourol Urodyn 
2002, 21, 167-78. 
2. Ali-EI-Dein, B, Ghoneim, MA, “Effects of selective autonomic and pudendal denervation on 
the urethral function and development of retention in female dogs.” J Urol., vol. 166(4), pp. 
1549-54, 2001 
3. Barrington FJF. The component reflexes of micturition in the cat. Brain 1941, 64, 239-43. 
4. Boggs JW, Wenzel BJ, Gustafson KJ and Grill WM. Spinal micturition reflex mediated by 
afferents in the deep perineal nerve. J Neurophysiol 2005, 93, 2688-97. 
5. Boggs JW, Wenzel BJ, Gustafson KJ, and Grill WM. Frequency-dependent selection of reflexes 
by pudendal afferents in the cat. J Physiol 2006, (Pt 1), 115-26. 
6. Cannon TW, Wojcik EM, Ferguson CL, Saraga S, Thomas C and Damaser MS. Effects of 
vaginal distension on urethral anatomy and function. BJU Int 2002, 90, 403-7. 
7. Chen GD, Lin TL, Hu SW, Chen YC, and Lin LY. Prevalence and correlation of urinary 
incontinence and overactive bladder in Taiwanence woman. Int J Nurs Stud 2003, 40, 227-34. 
8. Cheng CL, Chai CY, and de Groat WC. Detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia induced by cold 
stimulation of the urinary bladder of rats. Am J Physiol 1997, 272, R1271-1282 
31 
 
17. Klingler HC, Pycha A, Schmidbauer J, and Marberger M. Use of peripheral neuromodulation of 
the S3 region for treatment of detrusor overactivity: a urodynamic-based study. Urology 2000, 
56, 766-71. 
18. Kruse MN, Belton AL, and de Groat WC. Changes in bladder and external urethral sphincter 
function after spinal cord inkury in the rat. Am J Physiol 1993, R1157-63. 
19. Le Feber J, van Asselt E and Van Mastrigt R. Neurophysiological modeling of voiding in rats: 
urethral nerve responses to urethral pressure and flow. Am J Physiol 1998, 274, R1473-81. 
20. Liang CK, Chen JJ, Cheng CL, Chung CL, and Wang CC. An Implantable bi-directional 
wireless transmission system for transcutaneous recording of biological signal. Physiol Meas 
2005, 26, 83–97. 
21. Milsom I, Abrams P, Cardozo L, Roberts RG, Thuroff J and Wein AJ. How widespread are the 
symptoms of an overactive bladder and how are they managed? A population-based prevalence 
study. BJU Int 2001, 87, 760-6.  
22. Pacheco P, Martinez-Gomez M, Whipple B, et al.: Somatomotor components of the pelvic and 
pudendal nerves of the female rat. Brain Res 1989, 490, 85-94 
23. Peng CW, Chen JJ, Chang HY, de GroatWC and Cheng CL. External urethral sphincter activity 
in a rat model of pudendal nerve injury. Neurourol Urodyn 2006, 25, 388-96. 
24. Peters KM, Feber KM, and Bennett RC. Sacral versus pudendal nerve stimulation for voiding 
dysfunction: a prospective, single-blinded, randomized, crossover trial. Neurourol Urodyn 2005, 
33 
 
63, 171-6. 
32. Vodusek DB, Plevnik S, Vrtacnik P and Janez J. Detrusor inhibition on selective pudendal nerve 
stimulation in the perineum. Neurourol Urodyn 1988, 6, 389-93. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/01/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 建立下泌尿道功能監控之實驗動物研究
計畫主持人: 程千里
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-075A-001-MY3 學門領域: 醫用電子
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
