Research Result 
Introduction 
 
Laboratory mice have been the most useful model for studying human disease and phenotypic traits in 
ways impossible to be conducted in humans. In order to apply biomedical findings of mouse to human, 
the reference genomes of human and mouse have been extensively compared and analyzed (e.g., 
identification of orthologous genes1). However, the genomes of members within one species still differed 
from each other by various types of genetic variations (e.g., insertion and deletion) (Altshuler et al., 2005; 
Redon et al., 2006). Therefore, the extension of biomedical findings to human subjects is not completely 
accurate due to the lack of considering genetic variations in both species. Recently, considerable efforts 
have been made to sketch genome-wide maps of genetic variations in several species (Zhang et al., 2005; 
Frazer et al., 2004; Frazer et al., 2007; HapMap et al., 2007). Through comparative analysis of genetic 
variations in two or more species, we can improve the accuracy of extending biomedical findings across 
species and gain insight into their evolutionary history. 
  
In this project report, we summarized our results on several problems in the comparative analysis 
between human and other primates. The first issue studied the problem for the identification of dupliocns 
using hidden Markov Model. We designed and implemented a HMM and a statistical test. The second 
problem identified novel alternative splicing events and reconstructed the ancestral transcriptome using 
cross-species processed pseudogenes. We showed that the novel alternative splicing events can be 
identified by processed pseudogenes and these pseudogenes are fossils of ancestral trascriptome. The last 
problem studied the structure of CNVs by decomposing CNVs into small duplicons. A hidden markov 
model is proposed to delineate these duplicons and results are compared with previous methods. 
 
Problem 1: Comparative Analysis of Duplicons in Segmental Duplications and Copy 
Number Variations 
 
Background and Related Works 
Human and other primate genomes consist of many segmental duplications (SDs) due to fixation of copy 
number variations (CNVs) in the population. Structure of SDs in the human genome have been shown to 
be a complex mosaic composed of juxtaposed subunits called duplicons. A two-step model has been 
established to explain this mosaic structure. In this model, ancestral duplicons are first transposed and 
aggregated into one seeding block, which subsequently produces secondary duplication blocks. Duplicons 
within this complex mosaic can not be readily uncovered by conventional multiple sequence alignment 
approaches. Thus, Pevzner et al. developed an A-Bruijn graph algorithm for identifying duplicons from 
this mosaic structure. The A-Bruijn graph algorithm was then revised to discover 4,692 ancestral 
duplicons using human SDs and outgroup mammalian genomes. Subsequently, Jiang et al. compiled a 
library of known duplicon sequences and used this library to efficiently annotate SDs in a new genome. 
 
Results 
                                                 
1 Orthologous genes stands for genes in two or more species derived from a common ancestor.  
international journal. 
 
 
Concluding Remarks 
 This research project studied several problems related to comparative analysis between human and 
chimpanzee. The first problem proposed statistical methods for identifying duplicons in CNVs and SDs. 
Our results indicate that the mosaic structure composed of duplicons is common in CNVs and SDs of 
both human and chimpanzee. Phylogenetic analyses suggest that many CNVs/SDs share common 
duplicons and ancestry, and CNVs/SDs are usually centered around core duplicons shared by majority of 
duplications with common ancestry. The second part of our research result includes new statistical 
method for capturing signatures of balancing selection. Through coalescent simulation, the power of our 
method is high and robust against heterogeneous mutation rates and ascertainment bias. We identified a 
number of balancing loci among trans-specific SNPs between human and chimpanzee. 
 
 
REFERENCES 
[1]  Altshuler, D., Brooks, L.D., Chakravarti, A., Collins, F.S., Daly, M.J., and Donnelly, P. A haplotype 
map of the human genome. Nature, 437:1299-1320, 2005. 
[2]  Bafna, V., Halldorsson, B.V., Schwartz, R., Clark, A.G., and Istrail, S. Haplotypes and informative 
SNP selection algorithms: don't block out information. In Proc. RECOMB'03, pages 19-27, 2003. 
[3]  Barrett J.C., Fry B., Maller J., and Daly M.J. Haploview: analysis and visualization of LD and 
haplotype maps. Bioinformatics, 21(2):263-265, 2005. 
[4]  Brown, D., and Harrower I., A new integer programming formulation for the pure parsimony 
problem in haplotype analysis. In Proc. WABI'04, 254-265, 2004. 
[5]  Carlson, C.S., Eberle, M.A., Rieder, M.J., Yi, Q., Kruglyak, L., and Nickerson, D.A. Selecting a 
maximally informative set of single-nucleotide polymorphisms for association analyses using 
linkage disequilibrium, Am. J. Hum. Genet., 74:106-120, 2004. 
[6]  Chang, C.-J., Huang, Y.-T., and Chao, K.-M. A greedier approach for finding tag SNPs. 
Bioinformatics, 22: 685-691, 2006. 
[7]  de Bakker, P.I., Yelensky, R., Pe’er, I., Gabriel, S.B., Daly, M.J., and Altshuler, D. Efficiency and 
power in genetic association studies. Nat. Genet., pages 1217-1223, 2005. 
[8]  Gusfield, D. Haplotyping by pure parsimony. In Proc. CPM'03, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 
2676:144-155, 2003. 
[9]  Helmuth, L. Genome research: map of the human genome 3.0. Science, 293(5530):583-585, 2001. 
[10] Hinds, D.A., Stuve, L.L., Nilsen, G.B., Halperin, E., Eskin, E., Ballinger, D.G., Frazer, K.A., and Cox, 
D.R. Whole-genome patterns of common DNA variation in three human populations. Science, 
307:1072-1079, 2005. 
[11] Hu, N., Wang, C., Hu, Y., Yang, H.H., Giffen, C., Tang, Z.-Z., Han, X.-Y., Goldstein, A.M., Emmert, 
M.R., Buetow, K.H., and Taylor, P.R., and Lee, M.P. Genome-wide asspciation study in esophageal 
cancer using genechip mapping 10K array. Cancer Research, 65(7):2542-2546, 2005. 
[12] Huang, Y.-T., Chao, K.-M., and Chen, T. An approximation algorithm for haplotype inference by 
maximum parsimony, Journal of Computational Biology, 12: 1261-1274, 2005. 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 97-2221-E-194-051- 
計畫名稱 人類與老鼠單體型圖譜之比較分析 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
黃耀廷, 中正大學資訊工程系 
會議時間地點 June 27 - July 2, Stockholm, Sweden 
會議名稱 17
th Annual International Conference on Intelligent System for Molecular 
Biology (ISMB) 
發表論文題目 Genome-wide scan of trans-specific polymorphisms 
 
一、參加會議經過 
ISMB 是生物資訊領域重要之國際會議之一。選擇參加此次會議，主要是該會議今
年有特別舉辦一個 Workshop 與 Next Generation Sequencing 技術相關之演講與研究。由於
我們實驗室正在進入此一領域，所以報名該 Workshop 來吸收新的知識。此會議由眾多參
與演化研究之學者組成，會中有多位電腦科學家與生物學家的權威到場(例如、Webb 
Miller)，給予演講並給予後進指導。會議中之演講題目含括新一代定序資料處理(Next 
Generation Sequencing)，比較性基因體學(Comparative genomics)、人口遺傳學(population 
genetics)、及基因體變異(Genomic Variation)，皆為目前本實驗室成員個別專攻之研究領
域，因此受益良多。於會議中並認識了多位外國學者與同領域之研究專家。 
 
 
二、與會心得 
茲列舉以下幾個演講題目，與我們研究較為相關報告。其中印象最為深刻之作品，由
UCSD團隊所製作的A geometric approach for classification and comparison of structural variants
論文，考慮了新一代定序技術有序列長度不確定之問題，再偵測結構型變異時，不同DNA序
列會有不一致的回報情形。作者巧妙地將此不一致現象，將每個DNA序列轉換成二維空間之
一幾何圖形表示，再利用幾何圖形演算法來尋找所有多邊型之交集區域。這些交集的區域便
是所有DNA序列有一致認可的區域，進而從這區間鑑定出變異點。整體而言，對於新一代定
序技術之相關研究，似乎在2009年有顯著的進展，但是目前大部分論文都將序列先Mapping
至基因體上再作後續處理，而較少從原始實驗資料直接處理之研究。另一篇論文Inference of 
locus-specific ancestry in closely related populations，則是利用比對人類族群的SNP資料，建立出
統計模型，來尋找出屬於祖先遺傳至後代的DNA片段。由於本實驗室有成員正在研究相關之題
目，因此該篇論文也將是我們未來參考之重點。以下附上本次在瑞典首都Stockholm會場開會
時之相關照片。
 
 
