 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-155-018 
　執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：何旭川   元智大學機械系!
計畫參與人員：葉順文，鍾士傑，王奕翔 元智大學機械系 
 
!
一、中文摘要 
奈米碳管以碳 – 碳共價鍵所形成之晶
格結構，據估算楊式模數可達 1 TPa 抗拉
強度可達 100 GPa，均遠超出目前所知或
使用中之各種材料。傳統複合材料以樹酯
為基材加入纖維增加結構強度方法，可有
效提昇材料強度重量比與勁度重量比，奈
米碳管與傳統碳纖維相比管徑更小強度更
高，若以奈米碳管取代碳纖維製成奈米複
合材料，將可更大幅度提昇材料強度重量
比與勁度重量比。本計畫探討三種不同奈
米碳管複合材料製程，並經由各種不同機
械性質檢測評估製程優劣，瞭解製程參數
之影響，計畫執行為期三年。第一年以傳
統溶入混合攪拌方式製作奈米複合材料，
碳管分離與在基材混合均勻度為素求重
點；第二年應用奈米壓印技術刻畫溝槽滴
入奈米碳管，製作排列具方向性之奈米複
合材料；第三年應用陣列奈米多壁碳管排
列規則特性，注入樹酯製作分佈均勻之單
一方向奈米碳管複合材料。探討基材性質
與奈米碳管重量百分比對奈米複合材料性
質之影響。本年度為第一年計畫主要內容
為碳管分離與基材混合均勻。 
關鍵詞：多壁奈米碳管，陣列奈米碳管，
奈米壓印，奈米複合材料 
  
Abstract 
Since the discovery of carbon nanotubes 
(CNT) by Iijima in 1991, CNT with 
excellent mechanical, electrical, chemical 
resistance, and electromagnetic properties 
have attracted considerable attentions. It has 
many related applications, such as 
nanoelectronic devices, field emission 
display, hydrogen storage, etc. On the 
mechanical properties of CNT is predicted 
that has Young’s modulus of 1 TPa. Since 
the CNT have better mechanical properties 
than those of traditional carbon fibers, the 
development of CNT as reinforcement for 
polymer matrices is quite promising. CNT 
tend to form into aggregates due to 
extremely high surface ensrgy, which lead 
to inhomogeneous dispersion in the 
polymer matrix. In this research, three 
manufacturing processes are proposed to 
fabricate the nanocomposites. The first 
manufacturing process mixed the 
multi-walled carbon nanotubes with expoxy 
matrix homogeneously via sonication. The 
second manufacturing process uses nano 
imprint technique to produce aligned 
grooves, so that the MWCNT can be 
aligned in the same direction. The third 
manufacturing process pours the epoxy into 
ordered array of MWCNT to form 
uni-directional nanocomposites. Varieties of 
tests are performed to examine the 
mechanical properties of MWCNT 
composites. The effects of manufacturing 
processes on the mechanical properties are 
investigated by parametric study. 
Keywords: multi-walled carbon nanotube, 
array carbon nanotube, 
nanocomposite. 
 
二、緣由與目的 
奈米碳管是由片狀碳原子以六角形排
列，然後捲曲成管狀，又分為兩大類：以
單層的六角形碳結構捲曲而成的單壁
(single wall)奈米碳管；還有管管相包的
多壁（multi wall）奈米碳管。碳–碳共
價鍵結非常堅固，碳原子之間連結相當緊
密，且以穩定的六角環結合在一起，還可
自我修復，若有某一原子被移除，其他原
子會自行填補。奈米碳管重量比鋼鐵輕六
倍，但強度卻高出 500 倍以上，又具有極
高之韌性，可做 120 度彎曲而不斷裂，為
理想之結構性材料。奈米碳管可被用於多
種不同材料之補強如聚合物 
poylmer[2]、金屬[3]、陶瓷[4,5]並獲得
良好效果。合成之奈米碳管由於凡得瓦力
 4
檢測奈米碳管複合材料機械性質包含楊氏
係數、降服強度、抗拉強度等。為確保實
驗結果之穩定與可重複性，每種試片均製
作四片進行拉伸實驗，觀察比較其變異，
再取其平均值做為實驗值。 
圖 3為環氧樹酯與硬化劑混合比 2:1 未加
奈米碳管、奈米碳管重量百分比 1%、奈米
碳管重量百分比 2% 拉伸實驗所得應力與
應變關係曲線，結果顯示奈米碳管重量百
分比 1%之奈米複合材料與未添加奈米碳管
之基材拉伸實驗所得應力應變關係曲線相
當接近，而奈米碳管重量百分比 2% 則有明
顯差異。表 1為由應力應變關係曲線所得
之楊氏係數、降服強度、抗拉強度與破壞
韌性，顯示添加奈米碳管重量百分比 2%可
使材料楊氏係數增加 33% ，但抗拉強度僅
增加 3% ，而破壞應變和韌性分別減少 24% 
和 22%，說明添加奈米碳管可增強材料剛性
但卻會減少延展性使材料變脆。圖 4為以
掃瞄式電子顯微鏡觀察之奈米碳管，圖 5
則為試片拉斷之後觀察破壞斷面。 
圖 6為環氧樹酯與硬化劑混合比 1.5:1 未
加奈米碳管、奈米碳管重量百分比 1%、奈
米碳管重量百分比 2% 拉伸實驗所得應力
與應變關係曲線，表 2為由應力應變關係
曲線求得之楊氏係數、降服強度、抗拉強
度與破壞韌性，顯示材料剛性隨著碳管含
量增加而增加，延展性則遞減。 
圖 7為環氧樹酯與硬化劑混合比 1.3:1 未
加奈米碳管、奈米碳管重量百分比 1%、奈
米碳管重量百分比 2% 拉伸實驗所得應力
與應變關係曲線，表 3為由應力應變關係
曲線求得之楊氏係數、降服強度、抗拉強
度與破壞韌性，顯示材料剛性與延展性均
隨著碳管含量增加而增加。 
 
五、結論 
本文以環氧樹酯為基材奈米碳管為加
強材製作奈米複合材料，先以超音波震盪
機分離奈米碳管，再以真空攪拌機將奈米
碳管均勻分佈於基材，最後以真空烘箱將
基材內之氣泡抽離，固化後即可製備完成
奈米複合材料。藉由改變環氧樹酯與硬化
劑混合比變化基材性質，本文選用 2:1 
1.5:1 和 1.3:1 三種不同混合比經拉伸實
驗所得楊氏係數分別為 953MPa、454MPa 和
230MPa，顯示基材剛性隨著混合比減少而
減少。基材添加奈米碳管製成之奈米複合
材料其楊氏係數、降服強度、抗拉強度，
均隨著奈米碳管重量百分比之增加而增
加，且基材剛性越小所增加的幅度(百分比)
越大，而延展性則有遞減趨勢。 
 
六、參考文獻 
[1] Iijima S., Helical microtubles of graphitic carbon. 
Nature, 1991 ,354 ,56-58 
[2] Curran S., Davey A. P., et al., Evolution and 
evaluation of the polymer/nanotube composite, 
Synth. Met. 103 (1999) 2559–2562. 
[3] Dong S.R., Tu J. P., Zhang X. B., An 
investigation of the sliding wear behaviour of 
Cu-matrix composite reinforced by carbon 
nanotubes, Mater. Sci. Eng. A313 (2001) 
83–87. 
[4] Peigney A., Laurent C., Flahaut E., Rousset A., 
Carbon nanotubes in novel ceramic matrix 
nanocomposites, Ceram. Int. 26 (2000) 
677–683. 
[5] Ma R. Z., Wu J., Wei B. Q., Liang J., Wu D. 
H., Processing and properties of carbon 
nanotubes–nano–SiC ceramic, J. Mater. Sci. 33 
(1998) 5243–5246. 
[6] Ning J., Zhang J., Pan Y., Guo J., Surfactants 
assisted processing of carbon 
nanotube-reinforced SiO2 matrix composites, 
Ceramics International 30 (2004) 63–67 
[7] Park C, Ounaies Z, Watson KA, Crooks RE, 
Lowther SE, Connell JW, et al. Dispersion of 
single wall carbon nanotubes by in situ 
polymerization under sonication. Chem Phys 
Lett 364 (2002) 303–8. 
[8] Zhu B., Xie S., Xu Z., Xu Y., Preparation and 
properties of the polyimide/multi-walled carbon 
nanotubes (MWNTs) nanocomposites. 
Composites Science and Technology 66 (2006) 
548–554 
[9] Yeh MK., Tai NH., Liu JH., Mechanical 
behavior of phenolic-based composites 
reinforced with multi-walled carbon nanotubes. 
Carbon 44 (2006) 1–9 
[10] Allaoui A, Bai S, Cheng HM, Bai JB. 
Mechanical and electrical properties of a 
MWNT/epoxy composite. Compos Sci Technol. 
2002;62:1993–8. 
[11] Tai NH, Yeh MK, Liu JH, Enhancement of 
the mechanical properties of carbon 
nanotube/phenolic composites using a carbon 
nanotube network as the reinforcement. Carbon 
2004;42: 2774–7. 
[12] Ci L., Bai J., The reinforcement role of 
carbon nanotubes in epoxy composites with 
different matrix stiffness. Composites Science 
and Technology 66 (2006) 599–603. 
 
 
 6
 
 
圖 2:拉伸試片 
 
 
 
2:1
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
0 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.1 0.12 0.14
應變
應力(MPa) 未加
1%
2%
 
 
圖 3: 環氧樹脂與硬化劑混合比 2:1 在不同奈米碳       
     管重量百分比之應力應變關係 
 
 
 
 
圖 4:掃描式電子顯微鏡觀察奈米碳管 
 
 
 
 
圖 5: 掃描式電子顯微鏡觀察拉伸試片破壞斷面 
 
 
1.5:1
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
0 0.05 0.1 0.15 0.2 0.25
應變
應力(MPa) 未加
1%
2%
 
 
圖 6: 環氧樹脂與硬化劑混合比 1.5:1 在不同奈米   
      碳管重量百分比之應力應變關係 
 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-155-018 
計畫名稱 排列具方向性之多壁奈米碳管複合材料製程開發與機械性質檢測 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
何旭川 
會議時間地點 2006 年 9 月 26 日– 29 日　 韓國濟州 
會議名稱 The international conference on experimental mechanics 2006 
發表論文題目 
1. Stress analysis of composite material embedded with optical fiber sensor 
2. Identification of voids and cracks by ultrasonic technique 
 
一、參加會議經過 
由韓國 Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST)主辦之國際實驗力學
研討會 (The international conference on experimental mechanics 2006 ) 於 2006 年 9 月 26 日至
29 日在韓國濟州島舉行。每天上午 9點到下午 5點，每個時段均有 6個場地同時進行論文口
頭報告，共有來自超過 20 個國家四百篇以上論文發表，大會規劃 10 個主題分別為：(1) Optical 
methods and techniques; (2).MEMS and micromechanical testing; (3) Nano technology; (4) 
Reliability engineering; (5) Biotechnology and life science; (6) Fatigue and fracture mechanics; (7) 
Material testing; (8) Smart material; (9) Impact; (10) Composite material. 
大會將壁報展示場次安排在第二、三天晚上，配合廠商展示之最新檢測量測設備，並備
有自助式餐點，使與會學者均能在輕鬆氣氛下進行交流與聯誼。 
本次研討會安排了四場專題演講，演講內容包含複合材料在海軍之應用、奈米加工之研
究發展與相關設備、應用光學方法之影像處理技術分析結構變形與應力、固體表面作用力之
奈微米量測方法。 
大會在 9月 28 日舉辦正式歡迎晚宴，與會學者在輕鬆氣氛下進行交流，會中並安排多
項餘興節目。 
 
二、與會心得 
本次大會安排之專題演講，主講者均為該領域學有專精之學者，發表的論文亦各有其獨
到的見解，颇多值得學習之處，以下僅就與筆者研究領域相關部份，將與會心得概述如下： 
(1) 光纖感測與量測 ( Optical sensing and measurement ) 
有二場次共八篇論文，筆者發表之論文亦屬此領域，探討複合材料層板內埋光纖感測器承
受軸向力與徑向力之應力分佈，以同心圓為分析模型結合彈性力學與複材層板理論求得層板
應力，並分析光纖被覆與層板材質對應力分佈之影響。其他論文探討內容包含：以雷射干涉
方法量測雷射焊接之殘留變形；應用高精度電子光斑法量測大範圍之位移。 
(2) 非破壞檢測與評估 ( Non-destructive testing and evaluation ) 
有二場次 9篇論文，筆者發表之第二篇論文被歸類於此領域，應用超音波檢測辮識結構內
Stress Analysis of Composite material Embedded with Optical Fiber 
Sensor 
Shiuh-Chuan Her a,1 , Bo-Ren Yao a,1  
1 Dept. of Mechanical Engineering, Yuan-Ze University, Taiwan 
a E-mail : mesch@saturn.yzu.edu.tw 
Keywords: embedded optical fiber, composite, smart structure, concentric cylinder 
Abstract. Fiber optic sensor with small size, light weight and immunity to electromagnetic 
interference can be embedded and integrated into the host material to form a smart structure system. 
One must recognize that optical fibers are foreign entities to the host structure, therefore will alter 
the stress state in the vicinity of the embedded sensor irrespective of the small size of the fiber. This 
is a result of the material and geometric discontinuity introduced by the embedded optical fiber. In 
this study, the local stress fields in the vicinity of the embedded fiber are examined. The host 
material is considered to be a composite with reinforced fiber parallel to the optical fiber. The 
geometry in the vicinity of the embedded fiber is modeled by four concentric cylinders which 
represent the optical fiber, protective coating, resin and host material, respectively. In this 
investigation, the host structure is subjected to longitudinal normal stress and transverse 
hydro-static stress. The effects of the coating and host material on the stress distribution in the 
vicinity of the embedded optical fiber are presented through a parametric study. 
Introduction 
Structures embedded with fiber optic sensor are considered as primary sensing candidates for smart 
structures to monitor a wide range of physical quantities such as strain, temperature. Although 
optical fibers have small diameter, we must realize that they are foreign entities to the host structure. 
Therefore, the optical fiber can be considered as cylindrical elastic inclusion. The discontinuity of 
material and geometry induce stress and strain concentration in the vicinity of the embedded optical 
fiber. Benventiste et al.[1] predicted the stress field in composite with coated inclusion based on the 
average stress in the matrix. Dasgupta et al. [2] investigated the resin pocket geometry for stress 
analysis of optical fiber embedded in laminates composites. Dasgupta et al. [3] showed that strain 
concentrations near an embedded optical fiber are highly dependent on the thickness and material 
properties of the coating. Case & Carman [4] studied the compression strength of composites 
containing embedded sensors. Eskandari et al. [5] predicted the compression strength of a 
unidirectional polymer composite embedded with circular fibers. Melin et al. [6] used moiré 
inerferometry to measure the deformation fields around the optical fibers embedded in 
carbon/epoxy composites. In the present study, the objective is to calculate the stress field around 
the embedded optical fiber subjected to longitudinal normal stress and transverse hydro-static stress. 
The effects of the coating and host material on the stress distribution in the vicinity of the embedded 
optical fiber are presented through a parametric study. 
Analytical Model 
The optical fiber embedded composites are modeled as four concentric cylinders as shown in Fig.1, 
represent optical fiber, coating, matrix and host material, respectively. This geometry is applicable 
when the optical fiber is embedded parallel to the reinforcing fibers in the surrounding host 
composite. The host material is assumed to be transversely isotropic, while the optical fiber, coating 
and matrix are considered as isotropic materials. The interfaces between each constituent are 
assumed to be perfect bonds, such that the tractions and displacements are continuous across the 
1=zzσ , the stress distribution are shown in Fig.5, Fig.6 and Fig.7 with Young’s modulus of 
composite mc EE 1.0= , mc EE 1=  and mc EE 10= , respectively. 
Conclusions 
In this paper, the stress distribution of optical fiber embedded composite subjected to longitudinal 
normal and transverse hydro-static loadings is investigated basing on the four concentric cylinders 
model. The influence of the coating properties on the stress concentration is presented through the 
parametric study. The model can be used to determine the optimum coating property to minimize 
the stress concentration in the matrix material of the composite. 
Acknowledge 
The authors gratefully acknowledge the financial support provided by National Science Council of 
R.O.C. under grant no. NSC-88-2212-E-155-008 for this work. 
References 
[1] Benveniste, Y., Dvorak, G.J., Chen, T., Stress fields in composite with coated inclusions, 
Mechanics of Materials 7 (1989) 305-307. 
[2] Dasgupta, A., Wan, Y., Sirkis, J.S., Prediction of resin pocket geometry for stress analysis of 
optical fibers embedded in laminated composites, Smart Mater. Struct. 1 (1992) 101-107 
[3] Dasgupta ,A., Sirkis, J.S., Importance of coating to optical fiber sensors embedded in smart 
structures, AIAA 30 (1992) 1337-1343 
[4] Case, S.W., Carman, G.P., Compression strength of composites containing embedded sensors or 
actuator. J. of Intelligent Material Systems and Structures 5 (1994) 4-11 
[5] Eskandari, S., Carman, G., Evaluating the influence of fiber coating on the compression strength 
of a unidirectional polymer composite, J. of Composite Material 30 (1996) 1958-1976 
[6] Melin, L.G., Levin K., Nilsson, S., Palmer, S.J., Rae, P., A study of the displacement field around 
embedded fibre optic sensors, Composites: Part A. 30 (1999) 1267-1275. 
 
       
Fig.1: Four concentric cylinders model       Fig.2: Stress distribution for various coating 
subjected to longitudinal and transverse          Young’s modulus with mc EE 1.0=  under 
Loadings                                   transverse loading 
Identification of Voids and Cracks by Ultrasonic Technique 
Shiuh-Chuan Her a,1 , Ming-Chih Chang 1  
1 Dept. of Mechanical Engineering, Yuan-Ze University 
Tao-Yuan Shian, Taiwan 
a E-mail : mesch@saturn.yzu.edu.tw 
Keywords: ultrasonic, crack, void, diffraction, scattering  
Abstract. Ultrasonic is one of the most wide use of nondestructive evaluation technique. Voids and 
cracks are the most common defects in a solid. In this investigation, the ultrasonic technique is used 
to distinguish the defects between the void and crack. As an incident wave impinges on the crack tip, 
the diffractive wave can be detected from various angles. The amplitude of the diffraction is 
dependent on the receiving angle. For a void, the incident wave is scattered, the amplitude of the 
scattering wave is also dependent on the receiving angle. By comparing the amplitudes between the 
diffractive wave and the scattering wave, one is able to identify the defect of a void or a crack from 
the other. In this work, 5MHz of longitudinal and shear transducers are used and placed in a variety 
of incident and receiving angles to examine the difference between the void and crack. The 
experimental results are validated by the theoretical calculation. In order to identify the void and 
crack, it is required to have significant difference between the diffractive and scattering waves. The 
range of the detecting angle, which possesses a meaningful difference between the diffractive and 
scattering waves, is proposed through the numerical and experimental study to help the 
identification of the void and crack.  
Introduction 
Detection of the defects in engineering structure is becoming more and more important due to the 
requirement of the operation safety. The ultrasonic technique is a well established method in 
non-destructive evaluation. The technique relies on the interpretation of the ultrasonic waves that 
are diffracted by sharp discontinuities in material associated with defects. The diffracted energy 
from the tip of a defect is distributed over a wide range of angles, so that the technique is less 
dependent on the orientation of the defect. Gruber [1] used ultrasonic satellite pulse technique 
determining the size of defects, Silk [2] measured the crack depth by diffracted longitudinal wave. 
Llody [3] used shear wave method for measuring the depth of surface breaking cracks; Lidington & 
Silk [4] measured the crack depth by surface wave. Chiou & Schmerr [5] used Quasi-Pulso-Echo 
ultrasonic technique for flaw classification. Ogilvy & Temple [6] studied the diffraction of elastic 
waves by cracks. In this study, the distinction between voids and crack is investigated by ultrasonic 
technique basing on the difference of amplitude ratios between scattering on a hole and diffraction 
on a crack tip. 
Diffraction on a crack tip 
When an ultrasonic wave impinges on a crack, the emitted energy will distribute over the field. 
Thus, the diffracted signals are angular dependent. Ogilvy & Temple [6] had derived the diffraction 
pattern for P or SV waves incident at any angle onto semi-infinite crack. The diffracted longitudinal 
wave for incident longitudinal wave is given by 
( ) φκφθ
φθκθ
2cos2sin2sin
2cos2sin2
22+−=
L
TR                                 (8) 
Experimental measurement and theoretical calculation of diffraction and scattering 
A carck of width 0.3mm and length of 50mm is inserted through the full height of a cylinder block 
with radius of 50mm and height of 70mm. Two probes, one as transmitter and one as receiver, are 
placed on the circumference around the block as shown in Fig.1. The incident and receiving angles 
are measured from the crack line; opening angle is defined as the angle between the incident and 
receiving probes. A longitudinal wave of 5MHz is incident into the crack tip at various angles 
ranging from 105 degree to 150 degree and received at various angles. Another cylinder block with 
radius of 50mm and height of 70mm containing a circular hole of radius 2.5 mm as shown in Fig 2 
is used to study the scattering of 5 MHz longitudinal wave on a hole. Fig.3 shows the results of the 
longitudinal diffraction wave on the crack tip for various incident angles and longitudinal scattering 
wave on a hole. The amplitude show in Fig.3 is normalized by the longitudinal diffraction of zero 
opening angle. Fig.5 shows the results of the shear diffraction wave on the crack tip for various 
incident angles and shear scattering wave on a hole. The diffraction on the crack tip and scattering 
on a hole can be obtained from eq(1)-eq(8). Fig.4 shows the results of normalized amplitude of 
longitudinal diffraction on the crack tip and longitudinal scattering on a hole by theoretical 
calculation. Fig.6 shows the results of normalize amplitude of shear diffraction on the crack tip and 
shear scattering on a hole by theoretical calculation. The comparison between Fig.3 and Fig.4 
shows that the experimental results and the theoretical prediction agree well, similar to Fig.5 and 
Fig.6. The difference between the longitudinal diffractive wave and scattering wave increases with 
the increase of incident angle and opening angle. Thus, one can identify the defects of crack and 
hole by comparing the amplitudes of the longitudinal diffractive and scattering waves with incident 
and opening angles ranging form 105 degree to 150 degree which have large difference between the 
diffractive and scattering waves as shown in Fig.3 and Fig.4.  
Conclusions 
In this work, 5MHz of longitudinal and shear transducers are used and placed in a variety of 
incident and receiving angles to examine the difference between the void and crack. The 
experimental results are validated by the theoretical calculation. The range of the detecting angle, 
which possesses a meaningful difference between the diffractive and scattering waves, is proposed 
through the numerical and experimental study to help the identification of the void and crack.  
References                                                                                 
1. Gruber, G. J. “Defect Identification and Sizing by the Ultrasonic Satellite-Pulse Technique.” 
Journal of Nondestructive Evaluation. Vol.1 No. 4 (1980) pp. 263-276.  
2. Silk, M. D. “Sizing Crack-Like Defects by Ultrasonic Wave.” Proc. First. Intern. Symp. 
Ultrasonic Materials Characterization 1978. (1980) pp. 29-36.  
3. Lloyd, E. A. “An Ultrasonic Shear-Wave Method for Measuring the Depth of Surface-Breaking 
Cracks.” British journal of non-destructive testing. (1975) pp. 172-175. 
4. Lidington, B. H. and Silk, M. G. “Crack Depth Measurement Using a Single Surface Wave 
Probe.” British journal of non-destructive testing. (1975) pp. 165-167. 
5. Chiou, C. -P. and Schmerr, L. W. “Quasi Pulse-Echo Ultrasonic Technique for Flaw 
Classification.” Ultrasonics. Vol. 29 (1991) pp. 471-481. 
6. Ogilvy, J. A. and Temple, J. A. G. “Diffraction of Elastic Waves by Crack : Application to 
Time-Of-Flight Inspection.” Ultrasonics. (1983) pp. 259-269.   
  
