 中文摘要 
 
在大多數情勢裡，在通信網路內的每個網路使用者只能把訊息傳送到一個目的站。與此類
似，在通信網路內的每個網路使用者只能從一個源站得到訊息。 而且，網路使用者同時
不能傳送並且得到訊息。從調查在裡的研究中 [1],作者顯示那更濃的 axons(一個神經細胞
的長和纖巧投射， 或者神經元，處理電推展離開神經元的細胞體)  並且 dendrites( 分開
的行動進行電刺激從其他神經細胞得到到細胞體的一神經元的預測)  每神經元小屋，在神
經元之間的情報交流的高速。從上可知生物學的暗示， 我們提出通信網路 電子新聞採訪
系統作類比說明從一神經系統到相應 axons 每細胞的部分作為傳送作為接收天線的天線和
dendrites 每細胞的部分。 被好開發的無線技術-多輸入和多輸出(MIMO) -使被提議的系統
可行。 在實現的這樣的網路系統方面的可能的挑戰和好處被在這篇文章裡討論。一個隨
便佔有模型也被採用估計通道數說明哪個在被提議的新網路系統的系統設計過程中是決
定性的。 
 
 
 
 
報告內容  
前言 : 
In most situations, each station in a communication network only can transmit information to 
one destination station. Similarly, each station in a communication network only can receive 
information from one source station. Moreover, stations can not transmit and receive information 
simultaneously. From the research investigated in [1], the author showed that more denser of 
axons (a long and slender projection of a nerve cell, or neuron, that conducts electrical impulses 
away from the neuron’s cell body) and dendrites (the branched projections of a neuron that act to 
conduct the electrical stimulation received from other neural cells to the cell body) per neuron 
cell, higher speed of information exchanges between neurons. From the above biological hint, 
we propose a communication network for electronic news gathering systems analogized to a 
nervous system by corresponding axons part of each cell as transmitting antennas and dendrites 
part of each cell as receiving antennas. The well-developed wireless technology-Multiple Input 
and Multiple Output (MIMO)-makes the proposed system feasible. Possible challenges and 
benefits in implementing such network systems are discussed in this paper. A random occupancy 
model is also adopted to estimate the number of channel states which is crucial in the system 
design for the proposed new network systems. 
 
研究目的 : 
Electronic news gathering (ENG) is the base upon which all electronic journalists and news 
directors build their product. The most important value of ENG for television news is that it 
makes the audience to have the feeling of participating current news events. As long as the 
record apparatus and staff member reach the news scene, news can be broadcasted out to 
audience immediately [2]–[4]. 
Electronic News Gathering wear (ENGwear), is a communication network technology that 
source node, copies are sent both, from the source node and from some intermediate nodes, thus 
performing the communication in several steps [20]. This approach allows an efficient 
implementation of multicast communication on multicomputers without hardware support for it.  
For hardware-supported multicast, a tree-like routing scheme is not suitable because it 
produces many headers for each message, drastically increasing the blocking probability. In [21], 
[22], a path-based multicast routing model has been proposed for multicast communications 
based on the existence of Hamiltonian paths (dual-path and multi-path). In [21], the authors 
show the performance improvement over multiple one-to-one and broadcast communications. In 
[22], the authors present detailed evaluation results for meshes, showing that path-based 
multicast routing outperforms tree-like multicast schemes. Also, they show that dual-path routing 
achieves better performance than multi-path routing when the number of destinations is high.  
The multi-beam receiver is another scheme to implement high efficiency information 
exchange at a network [23]. A simple method of beam-space processing can be found in the 
multi-beam antenna (MA) systems [24]–[26]. In a typical MA system, a beamforming network is 
attached to an Melement antenna array to form a set of N beams pointed at different directions in 
space, leading to a beam diversity receiver which is essentially a beamspace version of the space 
diversity receiver. By selecting the N beams corresponding to a specific angular sector where the 
desired signal reside, the received signal-to-noise-ratio (SNR) can be improved due to the 
beamforming gain [24], [26]. Moreover, co-channel interference (CCI) from the selected outside 
beams can be suppressed in the sidelobe region, which further improves signal quality. To ensure 
reliable performance in the presence of strong and/or time-varying CCI, adaptive beamforming 
should be incorporated in such a way that the desired signal can be received with a constantly 
large gain, whereas CCI can be suppressed via adaptive canceling. Moreover, N(N > 1) beams 
can be selected for a better diversity reception and more degree of freedom can be applied for 
canceling inter-symbol interference (ISI). 
The development of the multi-beam receiver involves two steps. First, a set of N diversity 
beamformers is constructed on an antenna array of M elements, each providing effective 
suppression of CCI and reception of multipath signal. By sampling at L times the symbol rate, 
the diversity beamformers can ideally provide at most L times the number of parameters to adjust 
of the conventional symbol-rate beamformers. This leads to enhanced CCI suppression and 
signal reception especially when M is small. The adaptive beamformers are realized in the form 
of a generalized sidelobe canceler [27]. Second, outputs of these N diversity beamformers are fed 
into a decision feedback equalizer (DFE) to remove the ISI of the signal, leading to a space-time 
(ST) DFE with N feedforward inputs. Compared to the conventional ST DFE with M 
feedforward inputs, the proposed one works with a smaller data dimension N, leading to lower 
computational complexity and better convergence behaviors. 
Since multicast, broadcast, and multi-beam receiving have their own advantages and 
disadvantages in exchanging information between network nodes, we propose a network system 
from the inspiration of neuron cells to make each node perform transmitting and receiving 
information simultaneously. In order to implement an ENGwear system in wireless environment, 
it is important to perform channel estimation to response time-varying channels [28]–[33]. We 
apply the occupancy distributions in estimating the number of states for wireless channel [34] 
which will be crucial in system design. Our estimation method is particular useful in estimating 
resilience can be provided through link adaptation. Schemes such as orthogonal frequency 
multiple access (OFDM) and ultra-wide band (UWB) techniques are being used to support 
high-speed transmissions. In order to further increase capacity and mitigate the impairment by 
fading, delay-spread, and co-channel interference, multi-antenna systems such as antenna 
diversity, smart antenna, and MIMO systems, have been proposed for wireless communications. 
Although these physical layer techniques are also desired by other wireless networks, it is a more 
challenging problem to develop such techniques for ADNs. For example, ADN among multiple 
nodes makes the system model much more complicated than that of a conventional MIMO 
system in wireless LANs or cellular networks. In order to achieve much better spectrum 
utilization and viable frequency planning for WMNs, frequency-agile or cognitive radios are 
being developed to dynamically capture the unoccupied spectrum. The FCC has recognized the 
promising technique and is pushing to enable it to a full realization. Implementing cognitive 
radios on a software radio platform is one of the most powerful solutions, because all 
components of a radio, such as RF bands, channel access modes, and channel modulations, are 
programmable. The software radio platform is not a mature technology yet, although physical 
testbeds are currently available. However, in the long run it will be a key technology for wireless 
communications because it can enable the programmability of all advanced physical layer 
techniques. 
Several open research issues in the physical layer are discussed as following. First, it is 
necessary to decrease the interference between antennas since the transmitting antennas are 
neighboring to the receiving antennas for a node in such network system. Multiple-antenna 
systems have been researched for years. However, the complexity and cost issue of increasing 
the number of antennas in a device with volume constraint are still too high to be widely 
accepted for wireless networks. Many challenging issues need to be resolved before they can be 
accepted for commercial use. Second, because the proposed system will be operated in wireless 
environment (time-varying characteristics), how to update the transmitting and receiving channel 
conditions real-time is a challenge task. Third, to best utilize the advanced features provided by 
physical layer, higher layer protocols, especially MAC protocols, need to be carefully designed. 
Otherwise, the advantages brought by such physical layer techniques will be significantly 
compromised. A MAC protocol for MIMO systems is studied in [35]. However, for 
multi-antenna systems, an efficient MAC protocol to achieve significant throughput 
improvement is still needed, as will be discussed in Subsection II-A.2. Finally, tt is necessary to 
further improve the transmission rate and the performance of physical layer techniques. New 
wideband transmission schemes other than OFDM or UWB are needed in order to achieve 
higher transmission rate in a larger- area network. Multiple-antenna systems have been 
researched for years. However, their complexity and cost are still too high to be widely accepted 
for commercialization. Frequency-agile techniques are still in their early phase, and tremendous 
research efforts are needed before they can be accepted for commercial use. 
2) MAC Layer: A MAC protocol for ADNs can be designed to work on a single channel or 
multiple channels simultaneously. For single-channel MAC, two possible ways are usually 
employed to design a single-channel MAC protocol for ADNs. (1) Modifying Existing MAC 
Protocols. For example, in an IEEE 802.11 mesh network, the MAC protocol can be improved 
by adjusting parameters of CSMA/CA, e.g., contention window size, and modify backoff 
protocol in ADNs. (2) Multiple Performance Metrics. Many existing routing protocols use 
minimum hopcount as a performance metric to select the routing path. This has been 
demonstrated to be ineffective in many situations. (3) Efficient Routing with Mesh Infrastructure. 
Considering the minimal mobility and no constraints on power consumption in mesh routers, the 
routing protocol in mesh routers is expected to be much simpler than ad hoc network routing 
protocols. With the mesh infrastructure provided by mesh routers, the routing protocol for mesh 
clients can also be made simple. (4) Robustness. To avoid service disruption, ADNs must be 
robust to link failures or congestion. Routing protocols also need to perform load balancing. 
Existing routing protocols for ad hoc networks have already considered some of these features. 
However, none of them has captured all of these features, as explained in the following routing 
protocols. 
For a routing protocol of ADNs, several research issues still remain unresolved. The first 
problem in routing packets at ADNs is how to assign address to each group of antennas. The 
address assignment problem for such new network systems is quite different from traditional 
network address assignment since the antenna components of each group for a particular node 
will change over time. One possible solution is to design a hierarchical address by assigning 
address to each antenna for every nodes in the network. Scalability is the most critical question 
in ADNs. Hierarchical routing protocols can only partially solve this problem due to their 
complexity and difficulty of management. Geographic routing relies on the existence of GPS or 
similar positioning technologies, which increases cost and complexity of ADNs. Moreover, the 
inquiry of destination position produces additional traffic load. Thus, new scalable routing 
protocols need to be developed. Existing performance metrics incorporated into routing 
protocols need to be expanded. Moreover, how to integrate multiple performance metrics into a 
routing protocol so that the optimal overall performance is achieved is a challenging issue. 
 
研究方法 : 
CHANNEL STATES ESTIMATION 
The estimation of the number of channel states1 from a finite observed samples is a necessary 
step in antenna grouping. We assume that a random sample is selected from a population 
containing an unknown but finite number n of channel states. The following derivation is based 
on Chap IV in [34]. Let Xj be the number of elements of the j-th state in the sample, j = 1; 2;… ; 
n; and the number of total samples is Sn = ∑
=
n
j
jX
1
 . For a fixed sample size m, let Zj be the 
number of samples of the j-th states, j = 1; 2; … ; n: A uniformly minimum variance unbiased 
(UMVU) estimator of the number n of states can be based on the number of observed samples 
which is denoted as K. The probability function of K depends on the joint probability function of 
the occupancy numbers Z1;Z2; … ;Zn, which equals the conditional joint probability function of 
the random variables X1;X2; … ;Xn, given that Sn = m.  
The most useful family of discrete class distributions is the power series distribution with 
probability function  
  
 
  
結果與討論 : 
NUMERICAL RESULTS 
In Fig. 2, we plot the estimated number and the standard deviation of channel states with 
respect to the number of samples ,m. The number of different channel states observed in samples 
are denoted as k and the figure shows k = 3; 5; 7; respectively. From the figure, we found that the 
estimated n is more closer to k (or the stand deviation of n approaches to zero) when the number 
of samples increases. We also note that the number of samples required more for larger k to make 
the standard deviation of n to be less than half of the value k. The reason for this comes from the 
fact that the function of Stirling number of the second kind, S(m; k), is more sensitive to the 
change of value of m as the number k is large.  
In the scenario of wireless network, the number of potential interference nodes is crucial of the 
system performance. The technical results established in III could provide an estimation scheme 
for the number of potential interference nodes beside a reference node. We assume that that the 
Mc-ary quadrature amplitude modulation with Gray coding is adopted, then the bit error rate 
(BER) can be approximated by [36] 
 
where  are the power of signal, noise and interference source, respectively. The 
number n represents the potential interference nodes. In figures 3-5, we plot BER with respect to 
  
1990. 
[8] J. S. Choi and B. C. Shin, “Design of cascade ring multicast switch,” Electronics Letters, 
vol. 28, pp. 1330–1332, July 1992. 
[9] K. Y. Eng, M. G. Hluchyj, and Y. S. Yeh, “Multicast and broadcast services in a knockout 
packet switch,” in Proceedings of IFOCOM, Apr. 1988, pp. 27–31. 
[10] R. J. F. de Vries, “Atm multicast connections using the gauss switch,” in Proceedings of 
GLOBECOM, Dec. 1990, pp. 211–217. 
[11] J. S. Tumer, “Design of a broadcast packet switching network,” IEEE Transactions on 
Communications, vol. 36, pp. 734–743, June 1988. 
[12] H. S. Kim and A. Leon-Garcia, “A self-routing multistage switching network for broadband 
isdn,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas of Communications, vol. 8, pp. 459–466, Apr. 1990. 
[13] T. T. Lee, “Non-blocking copy networks for multicast packet switching,” IEEE Journal on 
Selected Areas of Communications, vol. 6, pp. 1455–1467, Dec. 1988. 
[14] C. L. Tamg and J. S. Meditch, “A high performance copy network for b-isdn,” in 
Proceedings of IEEE INFOCOM, Apr. 1991, pp. 171–180. 
[15] L. M. Ni, “Communication issues in multicomputers,” in Proceedings of First Workshop 
Parallel Processing, Dec. 1990, pp. 52–64. 
[16] Y. Lan, A. H. Esfahanian, and L. M. Ni, “Multicast in hypercube multiprocessors,” J. 
Parallel Distributed Comput., pp. 30–41, 1990. 
[17] X. Lin and L. M. Ni, “Multicast communication in multicomputers networks,” in 
Proceedings of Int’ll Conf. Parallel Processing, Aug. 1990, pp. 114–118. 
[18] ——, “Multicast communication in multicomputer networks,” IEEE Trans. Parallel 
Distributed Systems, pp. 104–117, 1993. 
[19] G. T. Byrd, N. P. Saraiya, and B. A. Delagi, “Multicast communication in multiprocessor 
systems,” in Proceedings of Int’l Conf. Parallel Processing, Aug. 1989, pp. 196–200. 
[20] P. K. McKinley, H. Xu, A. H. Esfahanian, and L. Ni, “Unicast-based multicast 
communication in wormhole-routed networks,” in Proceedings of Int’ll Conf. Parallel 
Processing, Aug. 1992. 
[21] X. Lin and L. M. Ni, “Deadlock-free multicast wormhole routing in multicomputer 
networks,” in Proceedings of 18th Ann. Int’l Symp. Comput. Architecture, May 1991. 
[22] X. Lin, P. K. McKinley, and L. M. Ni, “Deadlock-free multicast wormhole routing in 2d 
mesh multicomputersp.k. mckinley,,” IEEE Trans. Parallel Distributed Systems, vol. 5, pp. 
793–804, 1994. 
[23] M. Fujita, K. Takano, S. Tanaka, Y. Utsumi, and T. Murata, “Experimental results on 
multi-beam receiving antenna for satellite broadcasting,” in Proceedings of Int’l Conf. 
Phased Array Systems and Technology, May 2000, pp. 117–120. 
A. U. Bhobe and P. L. Perini, “An overview of smart antenna technology for wireless 
communication,” in Proceedings of IEEE 2001 Aerosp. Conf., 2001, pp. 875–883. 
[24] T. Matsumoto, S. Nishioka, and D. J. Hodder, “Beam-selection performance analysis of a 
switched multibeam antenna system in mobile communications environments,” IEEE Trans. 
Vehicular Technollogy, vol. 46, pp. 10–20, 1997. 
[25] J. C. Liberti and T. S. Rappaport, Smart Antennas for Wireless Communications. 
[26] Prentice Hall, 1999.  
