同於之前的研究，此計畫考慮了實體層的結構並充分利用進而提升了系統效能，
其考慮的範圍包含了協力式結構，適應性調變編碼，以及同質和異質網路結構。
此外雖有部分的文獻探討相似的議題，但是其提出的解決方案都具有兩大瓶頸，
第一個瓶頸是必須使用複雜的使用者狀態估測演算法，另一個瓶頸則是為了配合
使用者狀態估測演算法，使用者的封包會有阻絕（blocking）的限制。在此提出
的上行多媒體存取控制協定設計利用了封包接收狀態自動排序出使用者的可能
活躍程度，因此可以大幅降低演算法的複雜度也不會有封包阻隔的限制。 
在無線電感知系統中，現存的換手機制假定無線電感知使用者可以正確的偵
測每個頻帶以找到適合的頻帶進行換手，這個假設並沒有考量到偵測頻帶所花費
的時間，一旦偵測所需的時間過高，主要使用者的品質將會大幅地降低，因此，
新的頻帶換手機制是一個必須且重要的研究主題。子計畫三藉由部分可知的環境
下的馬可夫決策過程（Partial Observable Markov Decision Process, POMDP）之幫
助，可以透過探測部分的頻帶來估測整個網路環境進而提出以 POMDP 為基準的
頻帶換手機制。另一方面，由於衰減通道的影響，協力式通訊(Cooperative 
Communication)已被提出來降低接收錯誤率，然而大部分的文獻都是從實體層角
度探討，在實際系統中，由於半多工(Half‐Duplex)傳輸技術的限制導致傳輸時間
的增加是無可避免的事情，為了考量此效應，子計畫三從網路吞吐量(throughput)
的觀點來探討在什麼樣的情況下協力式通訊可以增加吞吐量並基於此探討提出
了兩種合作式通訊協定使網路整體吞吐量提升。 
子計畫四的主要具體研究成果如下： (1) 針對頻譜決定問題，我們提出一個
負載平衡的頻譜決定機制來最小化次要使用者的傳輸延遲；(2) 針對頻譜分享問
題，我們提出允入控制機制來避免主要使用者被干擾並最小化次要使用者的傳輸
延遲；(3) 針對頻譜換手問題，我們量化多次頻譜切換對次要使用者所造成的傳
輸延遲。如上所述，我們完整的探討了這三個頻譜管理機制對次要使用者所造成
的傳輸延遲。 
關鍵詞：資源管理，多封包接收，部分可知的環境下的馬可夫決策過程，頻
譜換手。 
with previous work, this project take the structure of physical layer into account to im-
prove the system performance. Specifically, the structure of cooperative communication,
adaptive modulation, and homogeneous/heterogeneous are considered. Although these
topic has been considered before, there are two bottlenecks. First, the need of active user
estimation algorithm is called for and the complexity of active user estimation algorithm
is usually high. Second, due to the active user estimation, the packet blocking constraint
is imposed on the active users for keeping compliant with prediction. Hence, we pro-
pose a solution that can automatically produce the list of active users by observing the
network traffic conditions to reduce the complexity and the packet blocking constraint
is relaxed.
For most proposed cognitive spectrum handoff mechanisms, it is often assumed that
the state of spectrum usage can be estimated without error and using negligible time.
However, an accurate spectrum estimation usually takes a long observation period and
thus the throughput performance of primary user is reduced significantly. Hence, it
is important to consider a novel and more time-efficient spectrum handoff mechanism
which a major focus of Subproject 3. Using the framework of partial observable Markov
decision process (POMDP), we are able to estimate the whole spectrum states by using
only partial information and with a relatively low complexity. Furthermore, we pro-
pose a novel POMDP-based spectrum handoff mechanism accordingly. On the other
hand, cooperative communication has been developed as a new communication strategy
that incorporates a relay node to assist direct point-to-point transmission. However,
owing to the longer transmission time resulting from the cooperative schemes, there
is no guarantee to enhance network throughput in view of the medium access control
(MAC) performance. In this subproject, system throughput is used as a measure for
evaluating the decision on when to initiate cooperation. We suggested two cooperative
communication protocols to enhance the system throughput.
The following issues were investigated in Subproject 4:
ii
Contents
Contents i
List of Figures ii
List of Tables iv
1 Introduction 1
2 Spectrum sensing and management in cognitive wireless mobile net-
works 5
3 Cooperative Cross-Layer Design in Cognitive Wireless Mobile Net-
works 18
4 Cooperative Routing Protocols and QoS Control in Cognitive Wireless
Mobile Networks 27
5 Cooperative MAC Protocol Design and User/Base Station Selection
in Cognitive Wireless Mobile Networks 35
6 Conclusion 38
Bibliography 41
i
4.1 The schematic diagram of the POMDP framework. . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
4.2 Performance comparison: number of waiting time slots versus number of
spectrum handoff. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
4.3 Performance comparison: number of waiting time slots versus traffic ar-
rival rate of primary user under number of transmission time slots = 1200. 30
4.4 Performance comparison: number of waiting time slots versus number of
channels (with two CR users). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
4.5 The schematic diagram of process in CSI-acquiring period with FCC pro-
tocol. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
iii
Chapter 1
Introduction
It is known that most of assigned spectrum are inefficiently utilized. For example, the
United States’ Federal Communication commission (FCC) had found that temporal and
geographical variations in the utilization of the assigned spectrum range from 15% to
85%.[1]. As a result, cognitive radio (CR) technology, which allows an unlicensed user
(secondary user) to share a spectrum with licensed users (primary users) as long as the
interference to the latter is nonexistent or acceptable, has in recent years emerged as a
new communication paradigm for next generation wireless mobile networks. It promises
much more efficient radio resource utilization, improved system performance and novel
new functionalities. The main theme of CR is the capability of a radio to sense and adapt
to its environment, constantly making spectrum, transmission and networking decisions
that optimize radio resources (energy/power, spectrum, cooperative nodes etc.) oppor-
tunistically. A careful examination of the nature of CR-based wireless networks reveals
that the associated communication and networking processes involve competition, coop-
eration and cognition phases. The study of these related behaviors and the designs of
algorithms and protocols that coordinate all three phases in an optimal manner shall be
the major focus of our investigation. On the other hand, the realization of a CR-based
network necessitates at least three core technologies, namely, (i) the software-define radio
(SDR) technology, (ii) the ultra-wideband (UWB) RF technology, and (iii) the cooper-
ative/competitive communication theory. The scope of the proposed joint efforts shall
1
devoted to develop better sensing schemes in a variety of communication environments
[2]-[5]. However, there is very little literature discussing the impact of sensing error or
spectrum mismatch. One of the main concerns of Subproject 1 is to investigate such
mismatch effects and propose feasible solutions.
Besides sharing and competing for the same spectrum, proper cooperation among
users can help improving network throughput. This subject is studied in Subproject 2.
More specifically, we study the medium access control (MAC) protocol design issue for
the uplink of a wireless network with multi-packet reception (MPR) capability, taking
into account the structure of cooperative communication, adaptive modulation, and
homogeneous/heterogeneous traffics. Although similar discussions has been presented
before [10]-[14], there are two major unsolved issues. First, the need of an active user
estimation algorithm is called for but the complexity of such an algorithm is usually very
high. Second, a packet blocking constraint is imposed on the active users for keeping
compliant with active user prediction. We propose a solution that can automatically
generate the active users list by observing the network traffic conditions to reduce the
complexity and relax the packet blocking constraint.
Subproject 3 investigates the benefit of cooperation among users. Most of the re-
searches on cooperative communications is based on the information theory’s viewpoint
and focuses on the PHY layer design. However, implementation consideration favors
half-duplex mode and thus two phases are required for a basic relay-based packet com-
munication network. As a source remains idle in the second phase the overall throughput
such a cooperative scheme is reduced. We suggest two cooperative communication pro-
tocols to enhance the throughput. Moreover, low complexity resource allocation algo-
rithms are proposed to further improve the throughput in a relay-based MIMO OFDMA
system.
In the following sections we highlight the major achievements of each subproject and
summarize their important results. Detailed information can be found in the reports
3
Chapter 2
Spectrum sensing and management
in cognitive wireless mobile
networks
Several important issues related to opportunistic communications are investigated in
this subproject. In the first year, we analyze the performance of a cognitive spread spec-
trum system called transform domain communication system (TDCS) in the presence
of spectral mismatches. We then deal with the problem of combined relay selection and
resource allocation for relay-based OFDMA systems in the second year. In the third year
we look into similar problems for MIMO-OFDMA systems. This chapter summaries the
major results associated with each subjects mentioned above.
Based on the CR concept, Chakravarthy et al. [17] proposed a dynamic modified
direct-sequence spread spectrum (DS-SS) system to which they referred as adaptive
waveform communication system (AWCS). Since the spreading sequence of AWCS is
synthesized in the transform domain, the system is also called transform domain com-
munication system (TDCS). The basic idea behind TDCS is to generate a spreading
sequence whose spectrum avoids existing users or jammers within the SS band.
In most existing works, it is assumed that the channel state information is perfectly
known at transmitter and receiver. In practice, the spectrum conditions at transmit-
ter and receiver are independently estimated at both sides. If the spectrum seen (or
measured) by transmitter is different from that seen at receiver, the mismatch between
5
Estimate
spectrum
Spectrum
magnitude
Random
phase
Scale IDFT Buffer MOD
TX
)(wA
)(wj
e
T
)(td
˷˴̇˴
Figure 2.1: Block diagram for a TDCS transmitter
the transmitted signal and the received waveform is not interfered by any existing user
if error-free spectrum estimates are available on both sides of the link.
The true spectrum represented by the binary-valued N -dimensional vector A =
(A(ω0), A(ω1), · · · , A(ωN−1)), where N is the size of inverse discrete fourier transform
(IDFT), is thus related to the error-free spectrum estimates AoTx and A
o
Rc via A =
AoTx ∧AoRc, where ∧ denotes component-wise logical “and” operation.
Example 2.1. Network geography induced spectra mismatch Suppose the spec-
tral estimations at both sides of a 4-channel (N = 4) link are error-free and ATx =
{0, 1, 1, 0} andARc = {1, 0, 1, 0}. The mismatch arises from the fact that the transmitter-
centered geographic locations and distances of the existing spectrum users are different
from the receiver-centered ones. There is a primary user using the first channel whose
location is very close to the transmitter but is far away from the receiver. On the other
hand, someone near the receiver is using channel two but it is far away from the trans-
mitter. For this case, the true spectrum is given by A = {0, 0, 1, 0}.
We shall assume that A(ωi) = 0 with probability 1− Psa and A(ωi) = 1 with prob-
ability Psa. Define two complementary sets of subbands (channels), G0 = {ωi|A(ωi) =
0, 0 ≤ i ≤ N − 1} and G1 = {ωi|A(ωi) = 1, 0 ≤ i ≤ N − 1}. Then G0 contains all
subbands that are currently in use and G1 is the set of available (unused) subbands. Let
|G1| = N1 be the cardinality of G1, then |G0| = N −N1.
7
Ps =
N∑
N1=0
N1∑
i=0
N−N1∑
j=0
i∑
k1=0
j∑
l1=0
N1−i∑
k2=0
N−N1−j∑
l2=0
(
N
N1
)
PN1sa (1− Psa)N−N1(
N1
i
)
P it0(1− Pt0)N1−i
(
N −N1
j
)
PN−N1−jt1 (1− Pt1)j
(
i
k1
)
P k1r0 (1− Pr0)i−k1(
N1 − i
k2
)
P k2r0 (1− Pr0)N1−i−k2
(
j
l1
)
P j−l1r1 (1− Pr1)l1
(
N −N1 − j
l2
)
PN−N1−j−l2r1 (1− Pr1)l2Pe
(
Es(
k1+l1
max(i+j,1)
)
N0(1 +
k2+l2
max(k1+l1,1)
) + l1+l2
max(k1+l1,1)
NI
)
(2.2)
terference that is represented by a zero-Gaussian random variable with identical variance
NI/2.
We show that the simulation of the performance of TDCS agrees with the perfor-
mance for different case by simulation. The size of IDFT N is set equal to 8. Here, we
just show one of examples and the others are included in the report of subproject 1.
Example 2.2. The effect of Pt1 The effect of Pt1 is illustrated in Fig. 2.2. The
parameters are set as followed: Pt0 = Pr0 = Pr1 = 0.9 and NI = 0 dB. A interesting
thing is that they are intersected for different Pt1. It can be explained by observing that
only j = N − N1 has nonzero value in (2.2) if Pt1 = 0. Since j = N − N1, l2 = 0.
This implies it is possible that interference is smaller than other cases at high Eb
N0
. To
illustrate the argument, consider Fig. 2.3. In Fig. 2.3, Pt0 = Pr0 = 1, and
Eb
NI
= 0
dB. When Pr1 = 0.7, interference is more serious and centered at higher l1 than that in
Pr1 = 0.9. For Pt1 = 0, it is possible to reduce interference at cost of Eb.
The SER in AWGN/flat Rayleigh and Nakagami-m for coherent demodulation is also
investigated in this subporject.
In conclusion, the effect of spectra mismatches due to spectral estimation error is
investigated. SER expressions for coherent modulation signals in various channel are
given. It is shown that the spectral estimation error results in error floor. As expected,
9
with several cooperative relay stations and mobile stations. An IEEE 802.16e-like TDD
scenario is assumed and only the uplink transmission with the base station handling the
resource allocation is of concern. In cooperative communications, decode-and-forward
(DF) and amplify-and-forward relaying has been investigated and, here, DF relaying is
adopted.
The problem of resource allocation in conventional orthogonal frequency division mul-
tiple acceess (OFDMA) systems or in relay-aided OFDMA system has been intensively
studied. For example, a centralized utility maximization framework was considered in
[19]. By introducing a set of pricing variables as weighting factors with the goal of
maximizing the utility function of the application layer, they solved the optimization
of physical layer transmission strategies (relay strategies and resource allocation) in an
efficient manner. Fairness aware adaptive resource allocation in a single-hop OFDM
system was considered in [20]. Here, we present two low-complexity resource allocation
schemes for an OFDMA network with an aim to maximize the overall sum rate and
fairness performance while satisfying the quality of serves (QoS), rate, and maximum
transmit power constraints.
The resource allocation problem can be formulate as
maximize[R F ]T
subject to∑
n∈SR
ρn,k log(1 + PRm(n, k)αRm(n, k)) +
∑
n∈SD
2ρn,k
log(1 + PD(n, k)αD(n, k)/2) ≥ Rk,min, ∀k (2.3)
K∑
k=1
ρn,k = 1, ρn,k ∈ {0, 1} ∀ k, n (2.4)
K∑
k=1
[∑
n∈SR
PRm(n, k) +
∑
n∈SD
PD(n, k)
]
= PT
PD(n, k) ≥ 0, PRm(n, k) ≥ 0, ∀ k, n (2.5)
The definition of the notations in this formula can be found in the report of this subpro-
11
0 5 10 15 20
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
125
rate constraint (bits/2 OFDM symbols)
s
u
m
 r
a
te
 (b
its
/2
 O
FD
M
 s
ym
bo
ls
)
 
 
optimal
Algo.A
Algo.B
MAS Algo.
Figure 2.4: Comparison of the sum rate performance for the proposed algorithms and
the AS algorithm; 2 MSs, 3 relay nodes, N = 8, PT = 80, BER = 0.001.
In Fig. 2.4 and Fig. 2.5 we compare our algorithms to optimal sum rate and the
algorithm in [21]. We consider the system contains 2 MSs and 3 relay nodes. The number
of subcarriers are 8, the total power is 80 W and the BER is 0.001. We find that our
algorithms achieve about 94% of the optimal sum rate but the corresponding fairness
indices are significant better than that offered by the optimal sum rate algorithm. The
sum rate of MAS algorithm is about 5% higher than that of our algorithms while our
fairness index performance is also much improved.
To sum up, in the second year, two algorithms that maximize the sum rate and
fairness index while meeting the individual user’s minimum rate and QoS (bit error
rate) requirements are proposed. No practical optimal solution to the problem discussed
here is known, the computational complexities of our algorithms are only moderate but
is much less than that of exhaustive search approach.
In the final year, we consider the resource allocation problem in MIMO-OFDM
13
done, users can do their own bit and power management individually without consider
other user’ effects. However, the user number on the same subcarrier of the orthogonal
precoding scheme will be bounded by the rank of the MIMO channel matrix such that
the spectrum efficiency may be constrained. In order to improve the efficiency of the
radio resource utilization, we bring up another precoding scheme which not only pro-
vides orthogonal but also non-orthogonal eigenchannels for transmission. In this scheme,
we allow more users to transmit data on the same subcarrier than the first scheme to
improve spectrum efficiency.
For the first (orthogonal) scheme, we propose two adaptive resource allocation al-
gorithms that take care of subcarrier assignment, pre-processing and post-processing
vectors selection and bit allocation. They are designed to minimize the total power and
meet each user’s QoS requirement. Similarly, we propose an adaptive resource allocation
algorithm for the non-orthogonal scheme according to its system structure. The adap-
tive algorithm also aims to minimize the total consuming power while each user’s QoS
requirement is guaranteed. In addition to the two SVD based precoding schemes we
design, we also take the precoder with limited feedback into account. For such the code-
book based precoding scheme, we perform subcarrier assignment and dynamic power
loading in order to minimize the average BER.
We focus on the the comparison of orthogonal and non-orthogonal scheme here; more
simulation results and discussions can be found in the report of this subproject.
The performance of the non-orthogonal precoding scheme and the orthogonal precod-
ing scheme for downlink transmissions with different channel matrix rank value is shown
in Fig. 2.6 and 2.7 respectively. The average power is normalized by that of the single-
user case, i.e., when a single user has access to all eigenchannels and all subcarriers. We
define the average power ratio at BER= B as :
PB = 10 log1 0
(
Pave,B
Pave,10−5,single
)
where Pave,B represents the average transmit power for a given modulation scheme at
15
−4 −2 0 2 4 6 8 10
10−5
10−4
10−3
10−2
10−1
B
E
R
Average Power Ratio (dB)
Orthogonal precoding scheme
Non−orthogonal precoding scheme
Figure 2.7: Comparison of the fairness performance for the proposed algorithms and the
AS algorithm; 2 MSs, 3 relay nodes, N = 8, PT = 80, BER = 0.001.
17
To show that the proposed MGPQ can improve the throughput, we consider a CDMA
network with random spreading. The packetlength, spreading gain, number of cor-
rectable errors in a packet, and noise variance are, 200, 6, 2, and 10 dB as adopted in
[14]. As illustrated in Fig. 3.1, the network throughput can be improved by about 40%
for p = 0.3 and 14% average as compared with the well-known dynamic queue (DQ)
MAC protocol [14], where the throughput is defined as the average of successful packet
transmission per slot. S stands for the waiting period and the optimal waiting period
selection is also investigated in this project. The delay performance, which is measured
by the average elapsed time slots for a packet to be successfully received by central
controller (CC), is compared in Fig. 3.2. The proposed method yields a smaller mean
delay with light traffic (p ≤ 0.4) since the MGPQ method tends to reserve the channel
access for those who are more likely to have packets to send, thus avoiding the time la-
tency incurred by the procedure of network-wide active user prediction. In heavy-traffic
environment, the DQ protocol will block the incoming packets; hence, the mean delay
is reduced. However, this make the larger packet loss ratio (PLR), which is defined as
the average ratio of the number of blocked packets to the number of generated packets,
as evidenced in Fig. 3.3.
Moreover, MAC protocol design for cooperative networks over MPR channels is in-
vestigated. There are two challenges in the design of cooperative MAC protocol for
MPR channels. First the CC may require the knowledge of the MPR channels of all
links, as well as the traffic conditions of all users, to determine the access set. This will
call for extra communication overheads and will degrade the system-wide throughput,
especially in a large-scale mobile network. Second, when packet reception failure occurs
due to collisions, a certain portion of the users may have to serve as the relay for data
retransmission. Without properly designed MAC protocol for cooperative user schedul-
ing, there would be a large throughput penalty incurred by the latent of packet relaying
phase. To our best knowledge, this has not been addressed in the literature.
19
Figure 3.2: Delay performance comparison between MGPQ and DQ.
direct link that is caused by the interference of concurrent packet relay transmission; (ii)
a closed-form lower bound for the throughput gain that a user with packet transmission
failure can benefit thanks to cooperative packet relaying. The results allow us to inves-
tigate the throughput performance of the proposed CMGP protocol directly in terms of
the MPR channel coefficients.
To show the enhancement of throughput via cooperation, we consider a CDMA
network with random spreading. The packetlength, spreading gain, and number of
correctable errors in a packet are, respectively, 200, 6, and 2. We assume that there
are a total number of M = 8 users in the network, among which user 2, 4, 5, and 7
are nearby the CC and user 1, 3, 6, and 8 are located far away from the CC. Fig. 3.4
compares the throughput performance with S = 4 when the number of the near-end
users participating in cooperative communication increase from one to four. The full
operation, which means that all the eight users are involved, is also considered. As
can be seen, the performance is improved with the increase of the number of near-end
21
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
1.4
1.6
Packet generating probability  p
T
h
ro
u
g
h
p
u
t 
(p
a
c
k
e
t/
s
lo
t)
Full cooperation
User 2,4,5,7
User 2,4,7
User 2,7
User 2
No cooperation
Figure 3.4: Throughput performance for different number of users participating in co-
operation.
cally, when the traffic is light, CC will include more users into the set for channel access,
and request the users in idle state to help relaying the packets from users with poor
links. When the traffic becomes heavier, CC will remove the users, in order from the
poorest link to the best link, out of user set to increase the overall system capacity.
Again, we consider a CDMA network with random spreading. The packetlength,
spreading gain, and number of correctable errors in a packet are, respectively, 200, 6,
and 2. 48 users are deployed in a grid distribution. Fig. 3.5 shows that by adapting the
user set, the significant improvement in the network throughput is obtained.
In the final year, it is found that the traditional MPR matrices cannot reflect the
channel dynamics in modern wireless communication networks when adaptive modula-
tion and coding (AMC) mechanisms are adopted to improve the system performance. If
AMC mechanisms are directly incorporated into MPR environments, the selected users
and the associated transmission modes may not be optimal for the medium access control
23
Figure 3.6: Throughput of adopted modes corresponding to different SINR.
and the corresponding transmission modes, and then the MAC layer reversely tells the
physical layer which transmission mode should be adopted to fully exploit the MPR
capabilities. Basically, the proposed method is a simple iterative method which tries
every possible combination of user set and modes to find the user-mode combination
that maximizes the average system throughput. Then, the scheduling procedure with
the selected users and the corresponding modes is performed.
Similar to the previous simulation environment, we consider a CDMA network with
eight users. For more consideration, please refer to the chapter 5 in the report of the
project 2. The SNR level of the nearest and farthest user from the CC are 20 and 16,
respectively. We compare the performance between the proposed method (joint AMC)
and suboptimal methods (suboptimal AMC (k)). The suboptimal AMC k means that
the MPR matrix is formed based on the parameters of mode k and the AMC is directly
incorporated into MPR environment. From Fig. 3.6, the proposed method outperforms
the other two suboptimal methods in the region p > 0.45 (p is the packet generating
25
Chapter 4
Cooperative Routing Protocols and
QoS Control in Cognitive Wireless
Mobile Networks
The contribution of this project can be divided into two parts. In the first part,
the spectrum handoff is investigated. In cognitive radio network, the second users need
to sense the spectrum holes, which are not exploited by primary users, and transmit
the information in these spectrum holes. In previous literature, the spectrum sensing is
assumed to be perfect known and, in practice, the sensing time may be too long such that
the throughput of primary user is reduced significantly. Hence, a partially observable
markov decision process (POMDP)-based spectrum handoff scheme is proposed in this
subproject. This scheme only require the partial observation and, therefore, the waiting
time can be reduced significantly.
Specifically, the POMDP framework contains three parts, as shown in Fig. 4.1. The
first component is the observation. Since not all the states are directly observable, a set
of observations is essential to provide an indication about which state the environment
should be located. This observation is usually related with actions and resulting states.
The belief state is the second component, which comprises a sufficient statistical infor-
mation for the past history, including all the actions and observations that can provide
a basis for decision-making under environment uncertainties. Moreover, the belief state
is updated after each corresponding action in order to incorporate one additional step
27
scheme, we compare the POSH scheme with non-spectrum handoff (NSH) scheme and
the randomly choose strategy (RCS). Fig. 4.2 shows the performance comparison of the
number of waiting time slots versus the total number of spectrum handoff for the POSH
and the RCS with three channels (spectrums). Two different channel conditions are
considered. A better channel means that the transition probability from idle/busy to
idle state is high such that the CR user can transmission with high probability. The NSH
scheme is not included in this case since the CR user can always stay at the channel with
better condition. As shown in Fig. 4.2, the total waiting time slots acquired from the
proposed POSH scheme is smaller than that from the RCS scheme under both channel
conditions and the POSH scheme can provide better performance as the the number of
spectrum handoff is increased.
0 50 100 150 200
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
Number of Spectrum Handoff
Nu
m
be
r o
f W
ai
tin
g 
Ti
m
e 
Sl
ot
s RCS−Cw
POSH−Cw
RCS−Cb
POSH−Cb
Figure 4.2: Performance comparison: number of waiting time slots versus number of
spectrum handoff.
Fig. 4.3 shows the performance comparison among the POSH, the RCS, and the
NSH schemes under different values of packet arrival rate of the primary user and 100
29
possible spectrum hold can be fully exploited, whereas the fairness for channel access
among all CR users can still be maintained. Specifically, the M-POSH protocol not only
needs to consider the traffic of primary user but also requires to coordinate the channel
access among the CR users. Instead of exchanging message among the CR users in
distributed, a common control channel is exploited to exchange required information
between the CR users. Fig. 4.4 shows the performance comparison with two CR users
under different numbers of available channels. It is apparently to observe that the NSH
scheme results in the same performance under different numbers of channels since it
does not perform any spectrum handoff activity. On the other hand, regarding the RCS
and M-POSH, the expected number of waiting time slot is decreased as the number of
available channel is augmented. It is clear that the M-POSH scheme has the smallest
number of waiting time slots for every number of channels since it adaptively select
the channel based on the available of network channels. Moreover, it is also shown in
the report of this subproject that the M-POSH scheme also has the smallest number of
waiting time slots for every number of users (compared with RCS and NSH scheme).
The second part of the contribution is the investigation of the cooperative strategies.
In previous researches (e.g. [32]-[34]), it has been shown that the cooperative communi-
cation can provides the cooperative diversity to enhance the diversity order. However,
most of researches focus on cooperative communication from the viewpoint of informa-
tion theory and physical layer design. In practical, the half-duplex antennas are adopted
and it takes two phases to relay the signals for relay-based communication. Due to the
additional phase, even the diversity is enhanced, the throughput may not be improved.
This motivates us to investigate when to cooperate. Here, the backoff model (Markov
model) of IEEE 80.11 MAC extended from [35], [36] is adopted to analyze the satura-
tion throughput of cooperative techniques. It is assumed that there are one destination,
one fixed relay, and N user nodes in the network considered in this project. The users
in the network are adaptively categorized into non-cooperative and cooperative groups
31
the throughput of the network, this factor should also be taken into account. Therefore,
the objectives for the design of proposed cooperative MAC protocols consist of the
following: (a) to determine if cooperative communication should be employed, and (b)
to select a feasible relay node based on available relays within the network. According
to the analytical study in this project, to determine the relay node and cooperation or
not depends on the channel information at destination. Hence, an additional period
(called CSI-acquiring period) should be inserted in order to acquire the channel state
information (CSI) at destination. Then, as a source requires a relay node to help transmit
signals, the destination will make a decision based on the CSI and make a response to
source node. The decision rule can be obtained according to the analytical results in
this project.
In the CSI-acquiring period, a control frame named relay ready-to-send (rRTS) is
created to carry the channel information of source-relay link from the relays to destina-
tion, as shown in Fig. 4.5. It is designed to have the same structures as the CTS frame
except that additional one-byte is added to store the channel information between source
and relay and rRTS will be transmitted sequentially in a pre-determined order. Because
the CSI of all links are available at destination node, this proposed protocol is called
Full CSI based Cooperative (FCC) MAC protocol. However, the overhead caused by the
FCC scheme can degrade the throughput performance as the number of available relays
is significantly increased. To overcome this problem, making the CSI-acquiring period
small is a possible way but this may result in the incompleteness of CSI at destination.
Hence, a pre-specified length of CSI-acquiring period is provided for all the relays in
the network to conduct relay contention process and only the winner, who has the best
channel condition, will be the only relay to transmit its rRTS frame to the destination.
It is possible that there are more than one relays has the best channel condition and 2-bit
relay identifier is inserted to avoid potential collision under the situations that two relays
may have the same channel information sequence. Since the relays contend in bit level
33
Chapter 5
Cooperative MAC Protocol Design
and User/Base Station Selection in
Cognitive Wireless Mobile Networks
In this project, we investigate spectrum management techniques in cognitive radio (CR)
networks with quality of service (QoS) provisioning. One fundamental issue in enhancing
QoS performance for the secondary users is the multiple interruptions from the primary
users during each secondary user’s connection. These interruptions from the primary
users result in the phenomenon of multiple spectrum handoffs within one secondary
user’s connection. Thus, a set of target channels for spectrum handoffs are needed to be
selected sequentially.
In order to overcome the performance degradation issue due to multiple spectrum
handoffs for the secondary users, various spectrum management techniques in CR net-
works are re-examined from a link connection quality perspective. There are four spec-
trum management functionalities in CR networks:
• Spectrum sensing: The secondary users should monitor all channels in order to
capture channel characteristic and detect spectrum holes. Based on sensing results,
the secondary users can find some candidate channels to transmit data. In this
dissertation, we consider a fully-connected CR network. Hence, the transmitter
and receiver of a secondary connection can have the same consensus on sensing
35
and spectrum mobility. For the spectrum decision issue, we show how to determine
which channels are required to probe and transmit. For the spectrum mobility issue,
we illustrate how to characterize the effects of multiple handoffs, where the secondary
users can have different operating channels before and after spectrum handoff. For the
spectrum sharing issue, we explore how to determine the optimal admission probability
to avoid the interference between primary and secondary users in the presence of false
alarm and missed detection. From numerical results, we can develop traffic-adaptive
spectrum management policies to enhance the QoS performance of the secondary users
in CR networks with various traffic arrival rates and service distributions.
37
Networking Conf. (WCNC), Sydney, NSW, Apr. 8-21, 2010.
[39] C.-L. Weng, Y.-B. Lin, and Y.T. Su, “Resource Allocation for MIMO-OFDMA
Based Wireless Networks,” in Proc. IEEE Wireless Commun. and Networking Conf.
(WCNC), Sydney, NSW, Apr. 8-21, 2010.
Subproject 2:
[40] W. F. Yang, J. Y. Wu, L. C. Wang, T. S. Lee, “A Multi-Group Priority Queueing
MAC Protocol for Multipacket Reception Channel,” IEEE Wireless Commun. and
Networking Conf. (WCNC 2008), Las Vegas, USA, pp. 1673-1678, Apr. 2008
[41] W. F. Yang, J. Y. Wu, L. C. Wang, T. S. Lee, “A Multi-Group Priority Based
Cooperative MAC Protocol for Multi-Packet Reception Channels,” in Proc. IEEE Inter.
Symp. Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio Commun. (PIMRC), Tokyo, Japan, Sept.
2009.
[42] W. F. Yang, S. L. Pan, and T. S. Lee, “Uplink Throughput Optimization for
Wireless Networks with Multipacket Reception,” IEEE Asia-Pacific Conf. Wearable
Computing Systems (APWCS), Seoul, Korea, Aug. 2009.
Subproject 3:
[43] Rui-Ting Ma, Yu-Pin Hsu, Kai-Ten Feng, and Li-Chun Wang, “Stochastic Spec-
trum Handoff Protocols for Partially Observable Cognitive Radio Networks,” major
revision, IEEE Trans. Veh. Tech.
[44] Chun-Chieh Liao, Yu-Pin Hsu and Kai-Ten Feng, “Analysis and Determination
of Cooperative MAC Strategies from Throughput Perspectives,” major revision, ACM
Wireless Networks.
[45] Rui-Ting Ma, Yu-Pin Hsu, and Kai-Ten Feng, “A POMDP-based Spectrum
Handoff Protocol for Partially Observable Cognitive Radio Networks,” in Proc. IEEE
Wireless Commun. and Networking Conf. (WCNC 2009), Budapest, Hungry, Apr.
2009.
[46] Chun-Chieh Liao, Yu-Pin Hsu and Kai-Ten Feng, “Performance Analysis of
39
Spectrum Selection Schemes in Cognitive Radio Networks,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp.
Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio Commun. (PIMRC), Tokyo, Japan, 2009.
[56] C.-W. Wang, L.-C. Wang, and F. Adachi, “Modeling and Analysis for Proactive-
decision Spectrum Handoff in Cognitive Radio Network,” in IEICE Tech. Rep., vol. 109,
no. 164, pp. 13-18, Aug. 2009.
[57] C.-W. Wang, L.-C. Wang, and F. Adachi, “Probability-based Channel Selection
Scheme in Cognitive Radio Networks,” in IEICE Tech. Rep., vol. 109, no. 341, pp.
209-212, Dec. 2009.
[58] C.-W. Wang, L.-C. Wang, and F. Adachi, “Optimal Admission Control in Cog-
nitive Radio Networks with Sensing Errors,” in IEICE Tech. Rep., vol. 109, no. 440,
pp. 491-496, Mar. 2010.
[59] L.-C. Wang and C.-W. Wang, “Spectrum Management Techniques with QoS
Provisioning in Cognitive Radio Networks,” in IEEE Int. Symp. Wireless Pervasive
Computing (ISWPC), Modena, Italy, 2010.
[60] C.-W. Wang, L.-C. Wang, and F. Adachi, “Modeling and Analysis for Reactive-
decision Spectrum Handoff in Cognitive Radio Networks,” in Proc. IEEE Global Com-
mun. Conf. (GLOBECOM), FL. USA, 2010.
41
[9] H.-T. Cheng, “Algorithms for partially observable Markov decision processes,” Ph.D.
dissertation, University of British Columbia, British Columbia, Canada, 1988.
[10] R. H. Gau and K. M. Chen, “Predictive multicast polling for wireless networks with
multipacket reception and queuing,” IEEE Tran. Mobile Computing, vol. 5, no. 6,
pp. 725-737, 2006.
[11] L. Tong, Q. Zhao, and G. Mergen, “Multipacket reception in random access wireless
networks: from signal processing to optimal medium access control,” IEEE Commun.
Mag., vol. 39, no. 11, pp. 108-112, 2001.
[12] X. Wang and J. K. Tugnait, “A bit-map-assisted dynamic queue protocol for mul-
tiaccess wireless networks with multiple packet reception,” IEEE Trans. Signal Pro-
cessing, vol. 51, no. 8, pp. 2068-2081, 2003.
[13] Q. Zhao and L. Tong, “A multiqueue service room MAC protocol for wireless net-
works with multipacket reception,” IEEE/ACM Trans. Networking, vol. 11, no. 1,
pp. 125-137, 2003.
[14] Q. Zhao and L. Tong, “A dynamic queue protocol for multiaccess wireless networks
with multipacket reception,” IEEE Trans. Wireless Commun., vol. 3, no. 6, pp.
2221-2231, 2004.
[15] G. Bianchi, “Performance analysis of the IEEE 802.11 distributed coordination
function,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 18, no. 3, pp. 535-547, Mar 2000.
[16] Z. Hadzi-Velkov and B. Spasenovski, “Saturation throughput-delay analysis of IEEE
802.11 DCF in fading channel,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Commun. Conf. (ICC), vol. 1,
pp. 121-126, May 2003.
43
[25] M. S. Maw and S. I, “Resource Allocation Scheme in MIMO-OFDMA System for
User’s Different Data Throughput Requirements,” in Proc. IEEE Wireless Commun.
and Networking Conf. (WCNC’07), pp. 1706-1710, Mar. 2007.
[26] G. Liu, X. Liu and P. Zhang, “QoS oriented dynamical resource allocation for eigen
beamforming MIMO OFDM,” in Proc. IEEE Veh. Technol. Conf. (VTC’05), vol.3
pp. 1450-1454, Sept. 2005.
[27] Y. Tan and Q. Chang, “Multi-user MIMO-OFDM with Adaptive Resource Al-
location over Frequency Selective Fading Channel,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Wireless
Commun. Conf. (WiCOM’08), pp. 1-5, Oct. 2008.
[28] P. Uthansakul and M.E. Bialkowski, “An Efficient Adaptive Power and Bit Alloca-
tion Algorithm for MIMO OFDM System Operating in a Multi User Environment,”
in Proc. IEEE Veh. Technol. Conf. (VTC’06), Vol.3 pp. 1531-1535, May. 2006.
[29] Z. Hu, G. Zhu, X. Xiao and Z. Chen, “Resource allocation for multiuser spacetime
coding based OFDM systems with QoS provision,” in Proc. IEEE Veh. Technol.
Conf. (VTC’05), Vol.4 pp. 2120-2123, Sept. 2005.
[30] C. Wei, L. Qiu and J. Zhu, “User Selection and Resource Allocation for Multi-
User MIMO-OFDM Systems with Downlink Beamforming,” in Proc. IEEE Wireless
Commun. and Networking Conf. in China (ChinaCOM’06), pp. 1-5, Oct. 2006.
[31] Y. H. Pan and S. Aissa, “Dynamic Resource Allocation for Broadband
MIMO/OFDM Systems,” in Proc. IEEE Wireless Networks, Commun. and Mobile
Computing Conf., Vol.2 pp. 863-867, Jun. 2005.
[32] J. Laneman, D. Tse, and G. Wornell, “Cooperative diversity in wireless network:
Efficient protocols and outage behavior,” IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, vol. 50, pp. 3062-
3080, Dec. 2004.
45
Inter. Symp. Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio Commun. (PIMRC), Tokyo, Japan,
Sept. 2009.
[42] W. F. Yang,@S. L. Pan, and T. S. Lee, “Uplink Throughput Optimization for
Wireless Networks with Multipacket Reception,” IEEE Asia-Pacific Conf. Wearable
Computing Systems (APWCS), Seoul, Korea, Aug. 2009.
[43] Rui-Ting Ma, Yu-Pin Hsu, Kai-Ten Feng, and Li-Chun Wang, “Stochastic Spec-
trum Handoff Protocols for Partially Observable Cognitive Radio Networks,” major
revision, IEEE Trans. Veh. Tech.
[44] Chun-Chieh Liao, Yu-Pin Hsu and Kai-Ten Feng, “Analysis and Determination of
Cooperative MAC Strategies from Throughput Perspectives,” major revision, ACM
Wireless Networks.
[45] Rui-Ting Ma, Yu-Pin Hsu, and Kai-Ten Feng, “A POMDP-based Spectrum Hand-
off Protocol for Partially Observable Cognitive Radio Networks,” in Proc. IEEE
Wireless Commun. and Networking Conf. (WCNC 2009), Budapest, Hungry, Apr.
2009.
[46] Chun-Chieh Liao, Yu-Pin Hsu and Kai-Ten Feng, “Performance Analysis of Coop-
erative Communications from MAC Layer Perspectives,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp.
Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio Commun. (PIMRC), Cannes, France, Sept. 2008.
[47] L.-C. Wang, C.-W. Wang, and K.-T. Feng, “A Queueing-Theoretical Framework
for QoS-Enhanced Spectrum Management in Cognitive Radio Networks,” submitted
to IEEE Wireless Communications Magazine.
[48] L.-C. Wang, C.-W. Wang, and F. Adachi, “Load-Balancing Spectrum Decision
for Cognitive Radio Networks,” submitted to IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in
Communications.
47
[57] C.-W. Wang, L.-C. Wang, and F. Adachi, “Probability-based Channel Selection
Scheme in Cognitive Radio Networks,” in IEICE Tech. Rep., vol. 109, no. 341, pp.
209-212, Dec. 2009.
[58] C.-W. Wang, L.-C. Wang, and F. Adachi, “Optimal Admission Control in Cognitive
Radio Networks with Sensing Errors,” in IEICE Tech. Rep., vol. 109, no. 440, pp.
491-496, Mar. 2010.
[59] L.-C. Wang and C.-W. Wang, “Spectrum Management Techniques with QoS Pro-
visioning in Cognitive Radio Networks,” in IEEE Int. Symp. Wireless Pervasive
Computing (ISWPC), Modena, Italy, 2010.
[60] C.-W. Wang, L.-C. Wang, and F. Adachi, “Modeling and Analysis for Reactive-
decision Spectrum Handoff in Cognitive Radio Networks,” in Proc. IEEE Global
Commun. Conf. (GLOBECOM), FL. USA, 2010.
49
96年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：蘇育德 計畫編號：96-2221-E-009-115-MY3 
計畫名稱：廣義的機會式通訊：無線行動網路中之競爭、合作與感知--總計畫:廣義的機會式通訊：無
線行動網路中之競爭、合作與感知 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 1 1 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 3 3 100% 為各子計畫研究成果數之總和 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 15 15 100% 
篇 
為各子計畫研究
成果數之總和 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
