I壹、研究計畫中英文摘要：
中文摘要
關鍵詞：顆粒流、土石流、任意地形座標系統、通用座標系統、震波、自由移動邊界。
本研究將針對由斜坡面上下滑至水平堆積面上的乾燥顆粒流所產生回傳的湧波作更進
一步的探討，包含理論數值模擬以及實驗的驗證。本研究採用 Tai and Kuo [Acta
Mechanica, 199, 7196, 2008] 所提出的理論模型，其包含質量以及動量守恆控制方程式，
為一二維移動曲面座標的變動底床顆粒流模型。在理論模型中針對底床侵蝕堆積的機制我
們採用了一個非常簡化的近似，且在整個侵蝕堆積的過程我們讓座標軸貼合底床且隨著底
床變動。這控制方程組描述了隨時間變化的流體深度以及透過深度積分的流體速度平均
值，特別是在流體下方新形成的堆積底床均能透過變動的底床座標確切描述其隨時間的演
變。實驗中，我們採用兩種不同底床表面的流槽以及不同流量的實驗來驗證該理論模型。
我們採用高速攝影機來拍攝記錄整個顆粒流體的行為，透過所拍攝兩張間隔極短時間的數
位影像差異可清楚顯示並區分出整個顆粒體的流體層以及堆積層的外觀，如此得以與理論
數值模擬的結果相比較。不僅流動層、湧波位置可透過該理論模型完善描述，堆積層的位
置以及其幾何形狀也都能有令人滿意的結果。
1貳、報告內容
(一)前言及研究目的
Avalanches, landslides, rock falls and debris flows are rapid gravitational mass movements.
They are extremely destructive natural phenomena and responsible for prompt reshaping of new
topography after each event. Examples are the landslides triggered by the earthquake on the 21st,
September, 1999, in Taiwan, e.g., Chang et al. [2005] and Chen et al. [2006]. The erosion
processes taking place in the subsequent years after the earthquake are manifestation of a
substantial factor for the significant change of the local topography. The deposition process
attracted less interest in the past years, however, it plays a crucial role in the geometry of the
deposit at rest and the final run-out distance, which is of great interest for engineering
applications of hazard assessments. Nevertheless, Félix and Thomas [2004] have investigated the
formation of levées in pyroclastic deposits by experiments and obtained a relation between dry
granular flow regimes and the morphology of deposits.
In this project a detailed approach is proposed for the behavior of two-dimensional
cohesionless granular materials moving down a confined inclined plane chute into the horizontal
run-out zone, where the upslope propagating bore is treated as a growing deposition heap. It deals
with the theoretical-numerical and experimental treatment. The depth-averaged field equations of
balance of mass and linear momentum are described in moving coordinates for general
topography as prescribed by Tai and Kuo [2008]. A most simplistic approach to the erosion/
deposition parameterization is proposed and the spatial coordinate coincides with the arc length
of the variable basal surface. These equations describe the temporal evolution of the depth and
velocity of the granular mass, especially the locations and shapes of the growing deposition heaps
beneath the flowing layer. Experiments were carried out with different material supply rates and
in two types of chutes, which differed by the bottom surface of the chute. In these experiments
the sequential motions of the granular mass were recorded by a high-speed digital camera. The
outlines of the deposition-heap and flowing layers were obtained by successive images
differences. Comparison of the experimental findings with the computational results proved to
lead to good correspondence between experiment and theory. Even the development of the
detailed geometry of the deposition-heap is satisfactorily reproduced.
3the erosion/deposition rate is approximated by a most simplistic approach: its value is
proportional to the thickness of the flowing layer and the difference between the topographic
inclination angle and the angle of repose. This thickness dependence can equally be interpreted as
a dependence on pressure perpendicular to the sliding surface. This is likely the more adequate
interpretation because it is “local”. In addition, based on experimental observation,a threshold
speed, corresponding to a threshold kinetic energy, is introduced, that the deposition procedure
takes place only when the local speed is less than the threshold speed. In this paper we report on
experiments which were carried out with three different material supply rates and in two types of
chutes, which differed by their bottom surface. While the frontal part of the granular mass comes
to rest in the horizontal run-out zone, the tail still accelerates further so that a bore, or traveling
shock wave, develops and propagates upslope. Similar experiments of the traveling shock wave
have been conducted by Pudasaini et al. [2007] where the granular flows encounter rigid walls. In
their experiments it was observed that a thin layer of rapidly flowing material is climbing the
deposition-heap and quickly comes to rest as the top of the frontal zone of the shock is reached,
but we only know a preprint of a further detailed investigation (pers. comm. with Dr. S.
Pudasaini). However, this motivates us to treat this problem as a thin surface flow over a growing
deposited pile, of which the front propagates upslope. In this paper the sequential motions of the
granular mass were recorded by a high-speed digital camera. The outlines of the deposition-heap
and flowing layers were obtained by the difference of successive digital images. Numerical
predictions were made by a shock-capturing and Riemann-solver-free non-oscillating central
(NOC) scheme (see e.g., Jiang and Tadmor, 1998, Nessyahu and Tadmor, 1990, Tai et al., 2002).
Comparison of the experimental findings with the computational results proved to lead to good
correspondence between experiment and theory. Even the development of the detailed geometry
of the deposition-heap is satisfactorily reproduced by the model equations.
5Fig. 3.1 Bijection between the Cartesian and curvilinear coordinates.
By virtue of (2) one can obtain
.cos,sin
,,1

























cR
x
b
csXP
x
x
c
x
b
ZC
x
x
s
XA
. (5)
With the definition, X
Q Q
tDt
D

 


 , and by virtue of (3), it is obvious that
0


 
 
Dt
D
Dt
D QQ
, (6)
i.e.  , can be thought to be the position of a pseudo-particle of velocity Q. Tai and Kuo
[2008] derived the model by requiring that the coordinate moves along with the moving surface
of the physical system, i.e., theξ-axis; 0 , is selected to always coincide with the topography
surface, whether erosion or deposition takes place. Therefore, as 0 marks always the
topographic surface, the evolution of the line represents that of the instantaneous topography.
3.1.2 Field equations
Let  wuq , and   qqq ,* denote the particle velocities in the X- and -coordinates,
respectively. Namely, u and w are the horizontal and vertical velocity components, respectively,
whilst, q and q are the velocity components parallel to the - and -coordinates,
respectively. With the presumptions of (i) approximately uniform distribution of the velocity
through the thickness and (ii) shallow curvature and geometry of the flowing body, Tai and Kuo
[2008] derived the leading-order depth-integrated non-dimensional equations of mass and
momentum balances in the forms,
73.1.3 Erosion/deposition rate
The determination of the erosion/deposition process is crucial for this model. Following
Bouchaud et al. [1994] and experimental observations Tai and Kuo [2008] suggested a proposal
for the deposition rate E (negative erosion rate of the basal surface, different to the term M in (7)
and (8), please refer to (16) for their relation) to describe the evolution of the variable basal
surface. Relative to the neutral angle n (the angle of repose of the material) three states exist







erosion.:0
,deposition:0and
,stationary:0and





n
thn
thn
vq
vq
b
b
(14)
FIG. 3.2: Three states of erosion/deposition with respect to the inclination angle and the threshold speed thv
for n=34and 0.1v .
Here,  is the local inclination angle and thv  is the threshold speed, corresponding to a
threshold kinetic energy for deposition. Explicitly, erosion occurs when the inclination angle is
larger than the angle of repose, whilst deposition only takes place once the inclination angle is
less than the angle of repose and the kinetic energy is less than the threshold, see Fig. 3.2. The
threshold value could non-linearly depend on the property of the contact surface between the
material and the static bed, or on the local inclination angle or on the local sliding surface, etc.
Since more detailed experimental data is still missing, the threshold speed is chosen, following
Tai and Kuo [2008], by the ad hoc relation,
 2nvthv   , (15)
with an empirical parameter v . This relation implies that thv depends on the square of the
difference between the inclination angle and the neutral angle (of repose). For a larger difference
between the two angles, deposition begins to take place at higher flow speed. Fig. 3.2 sketches
the three states of (14) with respect to the inclination angle and the local speed for n=34and
0.1v . When the inclination angle is near the neutral angle, deposition occurs only when the
flowing body is in the vicinity of a state of rest. Besides, note that there is normally a density
9complicated calculation of Christoffel symbols and computations of changing coordinate
orientation. Third, the deposition processes take place when the flowing body is close to a state of
rest. Through the introduction of the criterion (14) the angle of repose and a convex shape of the
slope by the deposition heap can be well reproduced. Last, the maximum run-out distance can be
well determined without applying the front-tracking technique (e.g., LeVeque and Shyue [1995]
or Tai et al. [2002]) or Lagrangian moving-grid methods (e.g., Hutter and Koch [1991], Koch et
al. [1994], Chen and Lee [2000] or Tai et al. [2006]). In the following paragraph we will
demonstrate these above mentioned advantages by numerical simulation and comparison with
experimental results.
3.1.4 Computational method
Since sudden changes in velocity and thickness of granular flows (shock formations) are
often observed when the granular mass slides from an inclined slope merging into the horizontal
run-out zone or when it encounters an obstacle, to produce more accurate and physically
meaningful solutions, a numerical scheme with a shock-capturing feature for steep gradients is
therefore necessary.
The system of equations (7)–(8) comprises a nonlinear balance system that is in conservative
form. So, mathematically, discontinuous weak solutions may exist, such as shock waves, and any
modern shock-capturing technique can be implemented into this system for describing shock
formations as observed in experiments, e.g., Rericha et a. [2002] or Gray et al. [2003]. In this
paper we apply the Godunov/MUSCL shock-capturing scheme by using a high resolution non-
oscillatory central (NOC) scheme, e.g., Nessyahu and Tadmor [1990], Jiang and Tadmor [1998]
or Tai et al. [2002], which is able to resolve the steep gradients of the unknown variables. At first,
the scheme requires the model equations to be written in terms of conservative variables, the flow
thickness h and the depth-integrated momentum uhmx  . In general vector form the model
equations, (7) and (8), then transform to
s
fw 




 ,
(20)
where  Txmh,w is the vector of conservative variables. The transport flux vector in the -
direction, f , and the source term, s, are given by
















 hsMu
M
hqm
hq
m
h
xx 0
2 ,2/
,
0
0 sfw
,
(21)
The source term s is of crucial importance, as the basal volume flow, M, represents the
11
surface of the three parts is made of plexiglass; in the second type (Type II) the bed surface of the
upper straight part is covered by writing paper and the remaining bed surface, the transition and
horizontal parts, is made rough by gluing Ottawa sand on it. For all the experiments shown in this
paper, we used 300 g (about 0.170 liter) Ottawa sand (compliant to ASTM C778 20/30, diameter:
0.60 –0.85 mm), where about 20% of the total volume of the sand is colored for visibility
purposes. Table I lists all the separately measured material coefficients (of Ottawa sand) for both
chutes. A high-speed digital camera (IDT X-Stream 3, 650 fps with resolution 1280 × 1024 pixels)
was used to record the sequential motion of the granular flows during the experiments.
FIG. 3.3: Upper panel: View of the chute for experiments. Lower panel: Sketch of the bed of the chute which
consists of three parts: inclined part, transition zone and horizontal run-out part.Between the two marks of “×” 
the transition zone is located. The arc length is reproduced in mm.
3.2.2 Outflow rates
For chute Type I three different outflow rates were designed, where the gate has a 10, 15 and 20
mm opening, respectively. To ensure that the outflow rates from the reservoir remain constant,
confirmation experiments were conducted with the above mentioned gate openings, where the
13
Similar to the observation in Pudasaini et al. [2007], the particles are violently jumping over
the basal surface when they first arrive at the horizontal run-out zone; this pulsation become
lesser as a heap (deposition-heap) is formed (panels 1 to 2 in Fig. 3.6a). To investigate the
evolution of the growing deposition-heap, the sequential outlines of the growing deposition-heap
are shown in Fig. 3.6b with the same time sequence, where the images are obtained by successive
image differences (subtraction of two consecutive photographs which are of 0.005 s apart). The
static parts are shown in dark grey, and in contrast, the light areas represent the flowing layers.
These consecutive photographs show how the rapidly moving material and the growing deposited
pile accumulate as the granular flux continues from above. It is found that the deposited heap
increases rapidly and travels upslope, whose thickness increases from the end over the horizontal
run-out zone and remains approximately constant over the straight inclined part (panels 3 to 12).
In the past investigations (e.g., Savage [1979], Gray et al. [2003] or Pudasaini et al. [2007]) the
front of the growing deposition-heap has been recognized as a “granular jump” or “normal
shock”,which propagates upslope at approximately constant speed. However, Fig. 3.6b shows
that a thin layer of rapidly flowing material is climbing the deposition-heap and quickly comes to
rest as the top of the frontal zone is reached. This thin and short-lived surface flow is here treated
as a problem of thin surface flow over a growing deposited pile whose front propagates upslope.
Thus, the increasing thickness of the deposition heap in Pudasaini et al. [2007] can be well
explained. In addition, in our experiments it is also found that the surface slope of the deposition-
heap does not adjust to the angle of repose of the material as the granular flux continues from
above, but is frozen with a convex shape over the transition zone. Due to different experimental
configuration, this convex shape is different to the ones in Pudasaini et al. [2007], where the
surface slope adjusted to the angle of repose of the material.
Different gate openings as well as outflow rates may influence the final deposition heap. Fig.
3.8 displays the final shapes of the deposition heaps of three experiments for the gate openings 10,
15 and 20 mm, respectively, where the variation is small (less than 3 mm). And it is found that
larger outflow rate results in shorter upslope movement and thicker deposition over the transition
zone.
15
The phenomenological coefficients are collected in Table III, which consists of the internal
friction angle, the basal friction angle of the upper straight part 1, transition part 2, horizontal
part 3 and the correction factor wk for the side wall effect. The effective friction coefficients
(marked with “∗”) for diferent experiments are listed in Table IV, where thedensity ratio is taken
into account. The relevant parameters involved in the numerical simulation for erosion/deposition
rate are the density ratio  , erosion parameter e , threshold speed parameter v ,
regularization parameter e and depth parameter h , which are identical for both types of
chutes and listed in Table IV. For reference and confirmation, the final accumulated volumes
accuV , expressed in density of the deposition heap, are given for the different cases. The maximum
variation (by Type I gate opening 20 mm) to the mean value 0.169 is 4.3%.
For all computations, the initial mesh size  is 2 mm, the Minmod TVD slope limiter is
used for the cell reconstruction of the physical quantities, and the CFL number is selected to be
0.4. The initial inflow velocities are given in accordance with Table III. The material supply stops
in accordance with the experimental data and is double checked by the accumulated volume accuV
in Table IV. All numerical results are shown together with the corresponding photographs.
17
continues. In addition, the maximum run-out distance is well determined, and does not change at
different time points once the deposition heap has started to form (before 56.00t s).
To further investigate the deposition process at the initial stage, Figure 10 demonstrates the
shots (left panels) and the corresponding outlines of the deposition-heap (right panels) together
with the theoretical predictions while the depositing pile is just forming. At time 16.00tt s
(panel 1) the pile is beginning to form. At 26.00tt s (panel 2) it becomes visible and the
maximum run-out distance has not been reached yet (see the different the different locations of
the markers“”). The development of this deposition-heap provides an additional drag for the
subsequent flowing particles and results in dramatic bouncing and dilutely moving particles
(panels 2 to 4). Namely, it reduces the final run-out distance. Although the evolving shape and
position of the deposition-heap can roughly be captured by the theoretical prediction, the vivid
jumping flowing layer above the stagnant pile is still a challenging task for both modeling work
and numerical simulation.
To demonstrate the advantages of this moving coordinate formulation, a comparison
computation has also been performed, in which all the applied parameters and conditions are
identical but only the deposition/erosion is shut off, i.e., M= 0 in (7) and (8). Figure 11 shows the
computed results with the corresponding photographs of the experiment. There are several
essential differences. First, because there is no deposition-heap and thus no additional drag force
to decelerate the subsequent flow, the whole body runs considerably farther (panel 1). Second,
although the simulated shock front travels upslope and the convex shape of the deposition heap is
FIG. 3.10: Shots of experiment (left panels) and outlines of growing deposition-heap (right panels) with
theoretical prediction when the deposited pile is arising.
19
and 20 mm, respectively.
FIG. 3.13: Sequence of comparison between experimental photographs and theoretical prediction for chute
Type I with gate openings 15 (panels 1 and 2) and 20 mm (panels 3 and 4) at t = t0 + 0.26 and a state of rest,
respectively, where M6= 0.
To demonstrate the generality of this model, we performed an additional comparison of
experiment with theoretical prediction in chute Type II as shown in Fig. 14, where the reference
time point t∗ 0 is different from t0 in previous figures. Since the basal surface in the chute Type
II is roughened by gluing Ottawa sand over the transition and horizontal runout zones, the
deposition heap forms after a shorter travel distance and results in a shorter maximum run-
distance (around 402 mm), whilst it is about 438 mm in Fig. 3.9 for chute Type I. In addition,
since the deposition forms above the transition zone, the free surface of the deposition-heap tends
to become a straight line with an inclination angle equal to the angle of repose of the material
(panels 2 to 4). The evolving shapes and position of the deposition-heap are fairly well captured
by the theoretical prediction. Although some of the parameters listed in Table IV have to be
determined by experiments, the agreements between experimental data and theoretical
predictions for different flow rates and both types of chutes are quite good.
21
肆、參考文獻
[1] B. Andreotti, A. Daerr, and S. Douady (2002). Scaling laws in granular flows down a rough
plane. Physics of Fluids, 14, 415–418.
[2] J.-P. Bouchaud, M. E. Cates, J. Ravi Prakash and S. F. Edwards, (1994). A model for the
dynamics of sandpile surfaces. J. Phys. I France, 4, 1383-1410.
[3] F. Bouchut, E. D. Fernández-Nieto, A. Mageney and P.-Y. Lagrée, (2008). On new erosion
models of Savage-Hutter type for avalanches. Acta Mech., 199, 181-208.
[4] Kuo-Jen Chang,T, Alfredo Taboada, Yu-Chang Chan (2005). Geological and morphological
study of the Jiufengershan landslide triggered by the Chi-Chi Taiwan earthquake.
Geomorphology, 71, 293-309.
[5] H. Chen and C.F. Lee, (2000). Numerical simulation of debris flows. Can. Geotech. J., 37,
146-160.
[6] Rou-Fei Chen, Kuo-Jen Chang, Jacques Angelier, Yu-Chang Chan, Benoît Deffontaines,
Chyi-Tyi Lee, Ming-Lang Lin (2006). Topographical changes revealed by high-resolution
airborne LiDAR data: The 1999 Tsaoling landslide induced by the Chi–Chi earthquake.
Engineering Geology, 88, 160-172.
[7] G. Félix and N. Thomas (2004). Relation between dry granular flow regimes and
morphology of deposits: formation of levées in pyroclastic deposits. Earth and Planetary
Science Letters, 221, 197–213.
[8] Gray, J.M.N.T., Wieland, M. & Hutter, K. (1999). Gravity driven free surface flow of
granular avalanhes over complex basal topography. Proc. R. Soc. Lond. A 455, 1841–1874.
[9] Gray, J.M.N.T., Tai, Y.C. & Noelle, S., (2003). Shock waves, dead zones and particle-free
regions in rapid granular free-surface flows. Journal of Fluid Mechanics, Vol. 491, 161 –
181.
[10] Hui, W.H., Li, P.Y. & Li, Z.W., (1999). A Unified Coordinate System for Solving the Two-
Dimensional Euler Equations. J. Comput. Phys., 153, 596-637 .
[11] Hui, W.H. & Kudriakov, S., (2002). A Unified Coordinate System for Solving the Three-
Dimensional Euler Equations. J. Comput. Phys., 172, 235-260.
[12] W.H. Hui. (2004). A unified coordinates approach to computational Fluid dynamics.
Journal of Computational and Applied Mathematics, 163, 15–28.
[13] W.H. Hui. (2007) The Unified Coordinate System in Computational Fluid Dynamics.
Commun. Comput. Phys., 2(4), 577-610.
[14] K. Hutter and T. Koch, (1991). Motion of a granular avalanche in an exponentially curved
chute: experiments and theoretical predictions. Phil. Trans. R. Soc. London, A (1991) 334,
93-138.
[15] Guang-Shan Jiang and Eitan Tadmor, (1998). Non-Oscillatory Central Schemes for
Multidimensional Hyperbolic Conservation Laws. SIAM. J. Sci. Comp., 19(6), 1892-1917.
[16] Koch, T., R. Greve and K. Hutter, (1994). Unconfined flow of granular avalanches along a
partly curved surface. II. Experiments and numerical computations. Proceedings of the
23
friction in designing granular moving bed filters. Advanced Powder Technol., 17(1), 49–67.
[35] Tai, Y.C., Noelle, S., Gray, J.M.N.T. & K. Hutter, (2002). Shock-Capturing and Front
Tracking Methods for Granular Avalanches. Journal of Computational Physics, Vol. 175
(1), 269–301.
[36] Tai, Y.C., Hsieh, M.J. and Liu, I.C. (2006), “An Application of Unified Coordinate to 1-D
Savage-Huter Model for Granular Flows.”Cross-Strait Workshop on Engineering
Mechanics 2006, Taipei-Tainan, Taiwan, R.O.C., September, 2006.
[37] Y.C. Tai and C. Y. Kuo (2008). A New Model of Granular Flows over General Topography
with Erosion and Deposition. Acta Mechanica, 199, 71-96.
[38] Wieland, M., Gray, J.M.N.T. & Hutter, K., (1999). Channelized free-surface flow of
cohesionless granular avalanches in a chute with shallow lateral curvature. J. Fluid Mech.,
392, 73–100.
25
[7] I. Luca, K.Hutter, Y.C. Tai and C.Y. Kuo (2008). "Topography based avalanche equations
and a hierarchy of avalanche models." EGU General Assembly 2008, Vienna, Austria, 14-18
April 2008. (oral presentation by I. Luca).
[8] C.Y. Kuo, Y.C. Tai, F. Bouchut, M. Pelanti, R.F. Chen and K.C. Chang (2008). "Simulation
of TsaoLing Landslide Based on Saint Venant Equations over General Topography." EGU
General Assembly 2008, Vienna, Austria, 14-18 April 2008. (Poster).
[9] Y.C. Tai and Y.C. Lin (2008). “On the deposition of granular surface flows.” EGU General
Assembly 2008, Vienna, Austria, 14-18 April 2008. (Poster).
[10] Y.C. Tai, C.H Chen, J.Y. Lan, K.C. Chen amd C.Y. Kuo (2008). “Internal Structure of a 
Finite Granular Mass Spreading on a Horizontal Plane.”Cross-Strait Workshop on
Engineering Mechanics 2008, September, 2008, Tainan/Taipei, Taiwan.
辦研討會交流。 研究課題包括：i) 由報告人之模式進行崩塌實驗之驗證； ii) 較廣泛的
實地資料與數值模式之驗證； iii) 先導之草嶺強震資料與山崩運動的探討。
報告人隨即參加歐洲地球科學協會（European Geosciences Union, EGU）於奧地利維也納
所舉辦之 2008 年會，包括第一天的報到日，會議共為期六天（April 13 ~ 18, 2008）。 該協
會為歐洲地球科學領域規模與影響力最大之學會，研討會議題包含地球科學、環境與自然災
害等議題，本次會議一共區分為二十三個主要議題（Sessions），分別於十多個演講廳同時進
行。在本會期中與報告人有興趣之議題分別屬於”Geomorphology”、”Hydrological 
Sciences”、”Natural Hazards”以及”Soil System Sciences”，因此會議期間必須穿梭於各演講
廳。此外，會議期間自 13 至 18 間, 每日均於展覽場地做海報展出，因此報告人亦需於各演
講報告的空檔參觀各海報成果的展出，並與相關與會學者相互討論。
本次會議報告人投稿以海報形式報告之文章標題為其要旨為基於前期研究成果：”On the 
deposition of granular surface flows”，EGU 2007，進一步結合實驗量測來針對侵蝕沉積模式
來做一比較。本模式得以成功解釋以往淺水波方程所無法給定的沉積剖面。報告人與中研院
的合作亦有兩項成果於大會中發表，文章標題如報告首頁。此兩項成果已在首段提及，在此
則不加詳述。
以下則為報告人在會議中其餘感興趣的議題摘要：地理學中，Geomorphology 的重點為
地形量測與地形變量的分析，由眾多的口述演講與海報展覽可知，目前量測主要以 LiDAR
及 inSAR 為主，兩者皆可提供精確度相當高的數值地圖(DEM)。而報告者亦留意到台大地質
系胡植慶(J. C. Hu)教授有兩項利用 inSAR 技術探討台灣地形演變的研究成果，而 LiDAR 則
以中研院地球科學研究所與工研院等單位為主。這些資料將有助於報告人未來將運動模式應
用於實用層面的資料來源的諮詢對象。
環顧土石／顆粒流的研究，確認組成率是一大課題。邀請講者Andreotti精闢闡述了單相
顆粒流摩擦力的 scaling law，基於此模型，該團隊已提出不少論文佐證其觀點。在含水土石
流部分，成大詹錢登教授今年也發表以實驗方法率定的 Bingham 土石流組構率。除了連體力
學的審視角度之外，DEM 模擬，如採用 PFC 等軟體程序的論文，亦泛見於議程中；如
Naaim 的團隊，同時也有採用有限元等方式探討顆粒流崩塌的文章。
Pudasini 就數學解析層面，對 Savage-Hutter 方程式提出一組建立於加速座標系統下的精
確解。Androtti 研究團隊的河中沙丘 (Sand dunes)的非線性動力學及 Solitary granular
avalanches 的 探 討 ； Balmforth 應 用 黏 彈 性 流 體 觀 點 解 釋 土 石 流 流 積 剖 面 與
Bingham-Rayleigh-Benard 穩定性問題。俄羅斯學者 Nosov， Kolesov 的聲波激發海嘯等等。
在兩相流淺水波方程式的理論中，最值得注意的發展是由Kowalski及McElwaine兩位學
者共同提出的模式。該模式藉由引進一”重心水深”之控制方程式，似能有效解決前述雙曲特
性轉變的問題，並得以同時解釋沉澤運移的動力特性，如沉積、再運移等。此模式為報告人
未來需詳加研究的課題。
藉由此次會議，報告人得以觀摩國際上在相關領域上之研究趨勢，並與各國學者進行經
驗交流，而在會議中，亦得以有機會與台大、成大以及中央大學等學校教授先進們請益，對
Geophysical Research Abstracts,
Vol. 10, EGU2008-A-07362, 2008
SRef-ID: 1607-7962/gra/EGU2008-A-07362
EGU General Assembly 2008
© Author(s) 2008
On the deposition of granular surface flows
Y.-C. Tai and Y.-C. Lin
Department of Civil Engineering, National Chi Nan University, Nantou 545, Taiwan
(yctai@ncnu.edu.tw / Fax:+886 49 291 8679)
The prediction of the paths of the gravity-driven mass flows, maximum run-out dis-
tances and threatened areas is a key part of hazard assessment and they are of consid-
erable interest to civil engineers and civil servants of municipalities responsible for the
planning and development in populated mountainous regions. Taking into account the
deposition and erosion processes, the gravity-driven mass flows can be seen as surface
flows over free bottom. However, the deposition or erosion processes have still to be
fully modeled. Using moving curvilinear coordinates, a combination of coordinates
for arbitrary topography (Bouchut and Westdickenberg, 2004) and unified coordinate
system (Hui, 2004), the depth integrated mass balance and momentum balance equa-
tions are derived (Tai and Kuo, 2008), where the evolving curvature effect is neatly
included in the total derivative operator of the moving terrain-following coordinates.
The motion of the basal interface is postulated by a most simplistic approach.
The investigation is focused on the deposition processes. Experiments of granular
flows moving down an inclined chute into horizontal run-out zone were preformed,
where the evolution of the varying basal surface, due to the deposition processes, was
captured by a high-speed digital camera. Numerical simulations demonstrate that the
theoretical prediction and experimental observations are generally in good agreement.
In addition, numerical analysis reveals the advantage of describing the angle of repose
of a pile at rest and shows that the deposition processes play an important role for
determining the run-out distance.
depending on the water content, this fitted friction angle is considered reasonable.
