Sensors 2010, 10                            
 
 
7790
1. Introduction  
The ultimate goal of glucose sensing development is to fulfill the requirements of a complete 
artificial pancreas, with a continuous in vivo monitoring for fine-tuning an insulin pump by  
closed-loop control [1,2]. Such a treatment could dramatically reduce mortality and complications from 
the chronic metabolic fluctuations in either hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia, and alleviate the burden of 
care delivery cost [3,4]. Above all, this hypothetical system could significantly improve the living 
quality of millions of diabetes sufferers worldwide to resemble the life of healthy individuals. In the 
current clinical environment, insulin delivery technology (insulin formulation and pump designs) is 
well developed, however glucose sensors for continuous in vivo monitoring remain problematic, 
especially with regards to the kinetic response in the hypoglycemia region [5,6]. Presently, intermittent 
self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) is the clinical method of choice, which provides point 
accuracy and has been verified by Clarke error grid analysis (conventional devices have 95–99% 
accuracy) [7]. However, an ideal glucose sensor for an artificial pancreas should provide clinical 
accuracy not only in the aspect of absolute glucose value at a specific time (point accuracy) but also the 
rate and direction of concentration change (rate accuracy) [7]. It has been noted that physiological 
insulin secretion from β-cells (insulin secretion portion in the pancreas) has a biphasic response toward 
a step change of glucose, which can be simulated by a close-loop feedback controlled insulin pump 
with a PID controller [6,8,9]. The PID controller will be adjusted by three coefficients:  proportional to 
the error (measured glucose concentration minus target concentration); the area under the curve 
(integral) of the error; rate of change (derivative) of the error. The point accuracy of the signal-
feedback sensor has the dominant influence on the “P” component (control gain); on the other hand, 
the “I” (direction of change) and “D” (rate of change) components will be counted on a sensor with 
reliable rate accuracy.    
SencilsTM are a family of fiber-optic sensors, capable of providing analyte monitoring in vivo for 
several weeks [10,11]. The key element is a chronically implantable and human hair-like optical fiber 
(Figure 1a) that permits reliable spectroscopic measurement of chemical reactions from the 
subcutaneous end of the fiber (Figure 1b). The technology can benefit not only clinical applications, 
but also veterinary medicine and basic molecular biology research. Preliminary animal implantation 
studies have demonstrated good chronic biocompatibility and durability [11]. Its first application was 
to measure glucose based on changes in fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) between 
fluorophores bound to betacyclodextrin and concanavalin A (Con A) in a polyethylene glycol (PEG) 
matrix attached to the implanted end of the fiber (Figure 1c). In vitro experiments demonstrated a rapid 
and linear relationship between the ratio of the two fluorescent emissions and concentration of glucose 
in saline for the physiological range of concentrations (0–500 mg/dL) over seven weeks [10]. The 
preliminary results confirm that applying ratio as the concentration index makes the reversible assay 
insensitive to variability of the photonic coupling or deterioration of the sensing materials over time. It 
could allow the device possess an internal standard without the necessity to calibrate daily based on the 
SMBG reading.  
Like most of the minimal and noninvasive designs for continuously in vivo glucose monitoring [12-15], 
SencilTM measures glucose in the interstitial fluid (ISF) compartment of skin to estimate plasma 
glucose. Although the concentration of the plasma glucose is the clinical index in identifying and 
Sensors 2010, 10                            
 
 
7792
implantation for short-term applications, and (2) how accurate is the measurement from acute response 
under in vitro calibration, and (3) how accurate is the acute response to estimate plasma glucose from 
the ISF detection? The information is crucial to establish foundation for further in vivo testing in 
elaborating the sensor accuracy of full working range through glucose clamp experiments, and chronic 
in vivo performance. 
2. Experimental Section  
2.1. Canine Subjects 
Four clinical healthy dogs scheduled for ovariohysterectomy were selected for the study. All dogs 
had a record of normal glycemia when admitted. Physical examination of each dog was performed by a 
board-certificated veterinary surgeon or veterinary resident to confirm the subject’s health. The 
hematological profile (WBC, RBC, Hb., Hct., MCV, MCH, MCHC, Thromob., Parasite) and 
bloodchemistry profile (AST/STOG, ALT/SGPT, LDH, CK, Alk. P’tase, Glucose, BUN, Creatinine, T. 
protein, Albumin, Calcium, Phosphorous) were verified within normal limits by Hitachi 7050 prior the 
induction of anesthesia. The study protocol was approved by the National Chung-Hsing University 
Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC Approval No.: 98-19), and consent was 
obtained from owners of all participating subjects.  
2.2. Anesthesia 
Anesthesia was induced with intravenous administration of medetomidin 125 mcg/m2 and  
propofol 2 mg/kg. Dogs were endotracheally intubated and anesthesia was maintained with inhalation 
of isoflurane in oxygen (1% to 2.5% isoflurane). The isoflurane vaporizer was adjusted as necessary to 
maintain an appropriate anesthetic status. All dogs received an IV infusion of lactated Ringer’s solution 
(Dog #1-3) or dextrose-lactated Ringer’s solution (Dog #4) in the flow rate of 10 mL/kg/h, throughout 
the anesthesia periods.  
Figure 2.  Illustration of the relative spacial positions for implantation, blood sampling and 
IV infusion on each subject (a). Arrangement of devices around the operation table (b). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) (a) 
Sensors 2010, 10                            
 
 
7794
Figure 3. Sensor calibration from the linear fitting result of in vitro measurements.  
(a) Absolute emissions at 525 nm and 570 nm (arrows) were applied to calculate the ratio 
for indicating glucose concentration. (b) Linear correlation between the emission ratios and 
the corresponding glucose concentrations. The standard deviations (from the six sensors 
manufactured in the same batch) of the calibration values at corresponding glucose 
concentrations are shown as green error bars. 
 
 
After implantation, both maximal emissions at corresponding wavelengths were observed to have a 
significant 2–3 fold decline in the four separate studies. This could be explained by two optical events: 
firstly, the ambient light contributed partially in the detected signal before implantation. It had a board 
emission spectrum from 450 nm to 800 nm, and its intensity at 525 nm was about three times the 
intensity at 570 nm. Secondly, more excitation was backscattered at the interface of hydrogel with the 
surrounding air before implantation. The reflection of normal incidence on the interface can be 
calculated from equation 1 to demonstrate a 10-fold increase in air (n = 1.0003) than in a water rich 
environment (n = 1.33, such as in cell clusters) when the refractive index of hydrogel is assumed to  
(a) 
(b) 
Sensors 2010, 10                            
 
 
7796
Figure 5. Profiles of the ISF reading from SencilTM and plasma reference from  
Hitachi 7050. (a) case study #1 (b) case study #2 (c) case study #3 (d) case study #4. 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
Sensors 2010, 10                            
 
 
7798
from the rear leg of the subject. A plasma reading at 637 mg/dL was collected 26 minutes before the 
last sampling with the venous blood drawn from the IV-infused limb, and was not included in the 
following analysis. The MAD and RMAD values of this case were 41.25 mg/dL, 18.49%. 
3.4. Accuracy of Agreement between Sencil Detections and Plasma Reference for Clinical Application  
The accuracy of agreement between SencilTM measurements and plasma reference for in vivo 
glucose monitoring was assessed by the method of residues, linear correlation, mean absolute 
difference, and Clarke error grid analysis. In the four trials with a range of 71–297 mg/dL plasma 
glucose, the collected 21 pairs of ISF reading from SencilTM and plasma glucose reference from  
Hitachi 7050 showed that SencilTM slightly overestimated the plasma reference value, which was 
indicated by the positive mean of difference (mean = 17.6 mg/dL). The MAD (17.6 mg/dL) and 
RMAD (16.16%) of SencilTM measurements were in the similar range of the conventional Medtronic 
continuous in vivo monitoring system [26]. However, the dispersion of values (expressed as  
mean ± 2 std) around the mean difference was lower for SencilTM (45 mg/dL, shown in Figure 6a) than 
with the conventional system (84 mg/dL). A linear correlation (the Pearson correlation coefficient  
is 0.9288 and the y-intercept is 14.22 mg/dL) between ISF reading and plasma reference is shown in 
Figure 6b. The Clarke error grid analysis indicated that 100% of the points are in the clinical acceptable 
zone A (61.9%) and B (38.1%) as shown in Figure 6c. The results of accuracy agreement analysis 
implied the potential of the sensor for clinical application from limited number of trials. However, a 
relative larger discrepancy was observed when the ISF glucose had more significant shift such as case 
studies #3 and 4, which could be resolved in the following directions: 
 
Figure 6. Accuracy of agreement between Sencil reading and plasma reference:  
(a) Bland-Altman method analysis; (b) least square linear fitting result; (c) Clarke error  
grid analysis.  
 
(a) 
Sensors 2010, 10                            
 
 
7800
fluorescence is less quenched by FRET and the emission peak of TRITC is completely obscured by the 
Qdot emission. Hypothetically, estimating the area-under-the-curve attributable to each fluorophore 
and filtered by numerical signal processing tools, such as independent component analysis could be the 
potential remedy for this problem. Thirdly, the implanted component of the sensor could induce a 
foreign body reaction that changes the local concentration of the analyte or that blocks diffusion of the 
analyte to the transduction point for chronic application [23-25]. Immediately upon contact with 
extracellular fluid (especially blood), proteins and other chemicals will adsorb onto and diffuse into the 
sensor, which may block protective or analyte-selective membrane; and a fibrous capsule will be 
formed progressively during post-implant days 4–12, potentially blocking diffusion of the analyte.  The 
capsule may have low or fluctuating concentrations of oxygen, glucose and other metabolites 
depending on the ratio of metabolic activity of the capsular cells to the circulation provided by the 
interrupted and reforming capillary bed. It might result in detection drift. Although the SencilTM 
implant has been verified to form a stable interface with the surrounding tissue [11], the effect of the 
relatively thin encapsulation should be tested in a chronic monitoring study. In this study, we observed 
the acute response on glucose sensing without a stable device/issue interface. The condition is similar 
to all of the present FDA-approved continuous monitoring systems (Guardian® system and Paradigm® 
system of Medtronic, and Seven Plus system of Dexcom start measurement at 2 hours after insertion; 
Freestyle Navigator® of Abbott begins at 10 hour). They all need several in vivo calibrations against 
plasma glucose at specific timeframes in their lifetimes (3–7 days) to adjust the tissue responses. The 
preliminary result of this study suggested that the acute response of the fiber-optic sensor possesses 
reasonable accuracy for clinical application without in vivo calibration. According to the recent 
literature reports [24,25] on the tissue response to needle type enzymatic continuous glucose sensors 
(general design scheme of all the marketed systems mentioned above), the detection was not apparently 
affected in the early phase response to the trauma.  It was the fibrous capsule formed in the end stage of 
foreign body reaction caused the most disturbances in glucose sensing, and eventually the function loss 
of the device. We have demonstrated that the small size and biocompatibility of the fiber-optic sensor 
formed relatively much thinner fibrous capsule than the needle type enzymatic continuous glucose 
sensors [11,24], and intend to verify that the SencilTM will have longer lifetime due to the relatively 
mild foreign body reaction in the future studies. 
4. Conclusions  
The present acute response study demonstrates the close correlation between ISF glucose readings 
from SencilTM and plasma glucose reference values over an approximately two hours of monitoring 
after calibration based on in vitro glucose saline readings. Further point accuracy analysis over the 
potential working range, rate accuracy analysis and chronic monitoring experiment will identify the 
feasibility of SencilTM for continuous glucose monitoring in vivo, or ultimately as a the closed-loop 
feedback input for an artificial pancreas.  
 
 
Sensors 2010, 10                            
 
 
7802
15. Bindra, D.S.; Zhang, Y.; Wilson, G.S.; Sternberg, R.; Thevenot, D.R.; Moatti, D.; Reach, G. 
Design and in vitro studies of a needle-type glucose sensor for subcutaneous monitoring. Anal. 
Chem. 1991, 63, 1692-1696. 
16. Boyne, M.S.; Silver, D.M.; Kaplan, J.; Saudek, C.D. Timing of changes in interstitial and venous 
blood glucose measured with a continuous subcutaneous glucose sensor. Diabetes 2003, 52,  
2790-2794. 
17. Aussedat, B.; Dupire-Angel, M.; Gifford, R.; Klein, J.C.; Wilson, G.S.; Reach, G. Interstitial 
glucose concentration and glycemia: Implications for continuous subcutaneous glucose monitoring. 
Amer. J. Physiol-Endocr. Metab. 2000, 278, E716-728. 
18. Kulcu, E.; Potts, R.O.; Tamada, J.A.; Lesho, M.J.; Reach, G. Physiological differences between 
interstitial glucose and blood glucose measured in human subjects.  Diabetes Care 2003, 26,  
2405-2409. 
19. Rebrin, K.; Steil, G.M. Can interstitial glucose assessment replace blood glucose measurement? 
Diabetes Technol. Ther. 2000, 2, 461-471. 
20. Rebrin, K.; Steil, G.M.; van Antwerp, W.P.; Mastrototaro, J.J. Subcutaneous glucose predicts 
plasma glucose independent of insulin: Implications for continuous monitoring. Am. J.  
Physiol-Endocrinol. Metab. 1999, 277, E561-E571. 
21. Panteleon, A.E.; Rebrin, K.; Steil, G.M. The role of the independent variable to glucose sensor 
calibration. Diabetes Technol. Ther. 2003, 5, 401-410. 
22. Hecht, E. The propagation of light. In Optics, 4th ed.; Addison Wesley: San Francisco, CA, USA, 
2002; pp. 86-148. 
23. Labow, R.S.; Erfle, D.J.; Santerre, J.P. Neutrophil-mediated degradation of segmented 
polyurethanes.  Biomaterials 1995, 16, 51-59. 
24. Heninger, N.; Woderer, S.; Kloetzer, H.M.; Staib, A.; Gillen, R.; Li, L.; Yu, X.; Norbert, G.; 
Kraenzlin, B.; Pill, J. Tissue response to subcutaneous implantation of glucose-oxidase-based 
glucose sensor in rats. Biosensor. Bioelectron. 2007, 233, 26-34. 
25. Klueh, U.; Kaur, M.; Qiao, Y.; Kreutzer, D.L. Critical role of tissue mast cells in controlling  
long-term glucose sensor function in vivo. Biomaterials 2010, 31, 4540-4551. 
26. Guerci, B.; Benichu, M.; Floriot, M.; Jellimann, S.; Bohme, P.; Drouin, P.; Durain, D. Clinical 
performance of CGMS in type 1 diabetic patients treated by continuous subcutaneous insulin 
infusion using insulin analog. Diabetes Care 2003, 26, 582-589.  
© 2010 by the authors; licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an Open Access article 
distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution license 
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). 
 
SPIE (Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers，光電工程師協會) 
Photonics West BiOS 是呈現生醫光電工程與科技領域發展成果的年度盛事，每年
吸引全球超過 18,000 人次、4000 篇論文發表、1200 間廠商參展，是學術研究與
產業技術交流的重要平台，也是提升國際能見度最佳的機會。SPIE Photonics West
研討會於過去 7 年(2003-2009)固定於 San Jose 國際會議中心舉行，今年移至舊金
山(San Francisco) Moscone 國際會議中心以吸引更多專業人士參與。本次大會議
題共分為五大項目: 
 Photonic therapeutics and diagnostics 
 Clinical technologies and systems 
 Tissue optics, laser-tissue interaction, and tissue engineering 
 Biomedical spectroscopy, microscopy, and imaging 
 Nano/Biophotonics 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
本實驗室以所開發的光纖感測器在癌症化療上的應用為題(Percutaneous 
fiber-optic sensor for the detection of chemotherapy-induced apoptosis in vivo)參與
BiOS 的成果發表(論文如下)，並與若干學術與廠商代表有若干意見交換，其中
較具代表性的交流如下: 
Jarod C. Finlay, Julia L. Sandell, Timothy C. Zhu, Robert Lewis, Keith 
A. Cengel, and Stephen M. Hahn 
本研究以一維陣列光纖系統(1X7)觀測腹腔內光擴散和螢光變化情
形以判定，光動力治療前後藥物濃度、血紅蛋白球、含氧的變化情
形。 
 Three-dimensional ovarian cancer models: imaging and 
therapeutic combinations 
Jonathan P. Celli, Imran Rizvi, Conor L. Evans, Adnan Abu-Yousif, 
and Tayyaba Hasan 
以 matrigel 建立腫瘤立體模型，並藉由光學檢測判讀光動力治療前
後的生理變化。 
 In vivo optical coherence tomography of percutaneous implants in 
hairless mice 
S. Donner, F. Witte, I. Bartsch, F. Petraglia, O. Massow, M. Heidrich, 
H. Lubatschowski, A. Heisterkamp, and A. Krüger 
以非侵入的方式(optical coherence tomography)檢測植入物的生物
相容性，取代病理解剖。 
 Optical fiber guided needle insertion to localize epidural space in 
porcine 
Yin Chang, Chien Kun Ting, Mei-Yung Tsou, Pin-Tarng Chen, and 
Kwok-Hon Chan 
以光纖偵測組織特異反射波長來確認針於活體中位置。 
 Development of an accurate 3D blood vessel searching system 
Sebina Shrestha, Jesung Park, Paritosh Pande, Brian E. Applegate, and 
Javier A. Jo 
以結合 OCT 和 FLIM 的系統同時提供組織形態與生化檢測的資
訊。 
 Application of NIR fluorescent markers to quantify expression 
level of HER2 receptors in carcinomas in vivo 
Victor Chernomordik, Moinuddin Hassan, Sang Bong Lee, Rafal 
Zielinski, Jacek Capala, and Amir Gandjbakhche 
建立數學模型分析二維活體影像的螢光時間差分布。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
