lifetime. Experiments indicate the superiority of the 
proposed algorithm in terms of average energy 
consumption and network lifetime. 
英文關鍵詞： topology control、wireless sensors networks、network 
lifetime、network reachable probability、energy 
efficiency 
 
 2
中文摘要： 
當在環境中佈建完無線感測器後，其所形成的無線感測器網路就開始運作。因著感測器的電力資
源有限，如何有效利用資源，使整體網路能正常運作，是一個重要的議題，拓撲控制是一個常被用以
解決上述問題的方法。在傳統的研究中大多假設兩節點間的連結只有成功與失敗兩種情形，也就是兩
點間封包傳輸只有 100%機率到達，或是 0%機率成功傳送，但是在真實環境中，卻並非如此，真實的
無線感測器網路中，會存在許多的間歇連結，透過合理地使用這些間歇連結，加上無線網路中具有其
與生俱來偷聽的特性，任一個節點只要位於另一節點的傳輸範圍內，皆可以接收到另一節點所傳送出
來的資訊。因此，在本計畫中，我們結合這兩個存在無線感測器網路中的特性，建立出高網路到達率
的拓撲，提升整體網路效能。並且發展拓撲控制機制，有效的延長網路的存活時間，並且我們提出動
態變更能量等級的方法，讓整體網路能量消耗的情況更為平衡，藉以提高網路到達率，將可以使得建
立出更具能量效率的網路拓撲。所以，我們的分散式網路控制演算法能達到高網路到達率，並延長網
路存活時間。 
關鍵詞：拓撲控制、無線感測器網路、網路存活時間、網路到達率、能量效率 
英文摘要： 
Topology control is an efficiency method that can enhance the energy efficiency in a wireless sensor 
network. There are several research discuss the topology control problem only focus on topology construction 
or topology maintenance. In this project, we design a distributed reliable and energy-efficient topology control 
algorithm both take into consider with topology construction and maintenance. In the topology construction 
phase, we build a reliable topology to reduce the packet retransmission. We use intermittently links and 
natural of wireless network. Anyone can receive the packet, when it in someone’s coverage. Therefore, we 
combined these features to build a high network reachable probability. It can enhance the network efficiency. 
In addition to, we propose the dynamic topology maintenance method, which can balance the energy 
consumption by multi-level energy threshold. Our proposed method can obtain the high network reachable 
probability and to extend the network lifetime. Experiments indicate the superiority of the proposed algorithm 
in terms of average energy consumption and network lifetime. 
Keyword：topology control、wireless sensors networks、network lifetime、network reachable probability、
energy efficiency 
前言 
Wireless sensor networks (WSNs) [1] continue to be a very popular technology to monitor and act upon 
events in dangerous or risky places for humans. It is one of the most important techniques utilized to reduce 
energy consumption in wireless sensor networks. According to [10], it defines topology control as an iterative 
process, and the topology control consists of three phases: sensor deployment, topology construction and 
topology maintenance. First, there is a sensor deployment phase common to all wireless sensor network 
deployments. In this phase, nodes discover themselves and build the initial topology. After this initialization 
phase, the second phase builds a new topology, which is topology construction phase. In the topology 
construction phase, a desired topological property is established in the network while maintaining connectivity. 
This new topology will run for certain amount of time, as the participating sensors will consume their energy 
over time. The main motivation behind the topology construction phase is to build a topology that will save 
energy and preserve important network characteristics, such as connectivity and coverage. Therefore, as soon 
as the topology construction phase establishes the network, the topology maintenance phase must start 
working. Once the topology is constructed, topology maintenance phase starts in which nodes switch their 
roles to cater for topological changes. During this phase, a new algorithm must be in place to monitor the 
 4
range of each sensor is a disk with a fixed radius denoted as Rc. All sensors share the same communication 
distance Rc and sensing distance Rs. Sensor node’s communication range Rc is larger than the sensing range Rs.  
In this project, we assume Friis’ path loss equation [10] in the path loss model. An interesting empirical 
study of connectivity with a platform of MICA motes was carried out in [11] to show that connectivity is not 
binary but instead a probability of successful communication modified by fading, interferences, and other 
sources of loss. In several research [6][7][8], these links which is in the transitional region has called 
intermittently link or lossy link. In this project, we discuss the relationship between the system lifetime and 
link in the practicality environment. 
We model a WSN as a directed graph G(V, E), where V is the set of nodes and E is the set of links. For 
each link ݁ ൌ ሼݑ, ݒሽ ∈ ܧ, we use ߣ௨,௩ ∈ ሺ0, 1ሿ to indicate the probability that a packet can be successfully 
delivered from the node u to v, called link reachable probability. A node can be reached by the sink via 
broadcast through several routes. With these concepts available, we have the following definitions. 
Candidate Set C(v): Given a node v in a network G, C(v) is the candidate set of upstream node of v. The rule 
of the candidate set is  
ܶሺݒሻ ൌ ሼݔ|ݔ ∈ ܰሺݒሻ, ߝ௥௠ሺݒሻ ൐ ߝ௧௛ሺݒሻሽ 
ܥሺݒሻ ൌ ܶሺݒሻ⨁ܦሺݒሻ 
where, ߝ௥௠ሺݒሻ and ߝ௧௛ሺݒሻ are the remain energy and energy threshold of node v, respectively. The D(v) is 
the downstream node of v.  
Node Reachable Probability λG(v): Given a node v in a network G, λG(v) is the probability that the sink can 
reach v by a broadcast, ie.,  
ߣீሺݒሻ ൌ 1 െ ෑ ቀ1 െ ߣ௨,௩ ൈ ߣீሺݑሻቁ
௨ఢ௖ሺ௩ሻ
 
Especially, the node reachable probability of sink is 1. In other word, ߣீሺSinkሻ ൌ 1.  
Upstream Reachable Probability λup(u)(v): In a network G, the link reachable probability between node u and 
v is ߣ௨,௩ ∈ ሺ0, 1ሿ. The node u is the upstream node of node v. λup(u)(v) is the probability that the sink can reach 
v through u, ie.,  
ߣ௨௣ሺ௨ሻሺݒሻ ൌ ߣ௨,௩ ൈ ߣீሺݑሻ 
Network Reachable Probability(λ(G): Given a network G(V, E), λ(G) is defined as the ratio between the 
sum of node reachable probability by the sink using a sink-initialized broadcast, and the total number of nodes 
in V, ie.,  
ߣሺܩሻ ൌ ∑ ߣீሺݑሻ௩ఢ௏|ܸ|  
Node Energy Cost ߝሺݑሻ: Given a network G, ε(u) is the sum of the transmitting cost ߝ௧௫ሺݑሻ and all 
receiving cost ߝ௥௫ሺݒሻ from neighbor, ie.,  
ߝሺݑሻ ൌ 	 ߝ௧௫ሺݑሻ ൅ ෍ ߝ௥௫ሺݒሻ
௩∈௡ሺ௨ሻ
 
B. Reliable Topology Construction Scheme 
In the topology construction phase, a desired topological property is established in the network while 
maintaining connectivity. In this process, the object of our proposed is constructing a topology with reliable 
and energy-efficient. Assume each sensor node is equipped with energy, initially. Thus, we need to consider 
 6
denote links, we use ߣ௨,௩ ∈ ሺ0, 1ሿ to indicate the probability that a packet can be successfully delivered from 
the node u to v, called link reachable probability. When each node receives the beacon node, it saves the 
information of beacon packet into InformationList table, and computes the link reachable probability. The 
InformationList table recodes all information of neighbors and the information itself. The significance of the 
InformationList table shows in Table 2. 
TABLE 2 Notations for InformationList table. 
Parameter Description
Node_ID Node ID 
NodeProbability Node Reachable Probability λG(v), the probability that the sink 
can reach v by a broadcast.
LinkProbability Link Reachable Probability, the probability that a packet can 
be successfully delivered from the node u to v. 
EnergyState Remain Energy
Upstream_Node Upstream Node。
Downstream_Node Downstream Node
Sink_State The connect state; the node v connect to the sink or not 
through upstream node.
In line 4, v fined the candidate set by using eq. 4, first. To determine if the upstream node should be update, 
a node v checks the different of reachable probability of upstream node ߣ௨௣ሺ௜ሻሺݒሻ (line 5-10). The difference 
between the current upstream reachable probability ߣ௨௣ሺ௜ሻ′ ሺݒሻ  and the previous upstream reachable 
probability ߣ௨௣ሺ௜ሻሺݒሻ is calculated and segmented as follows: 
ߣ௜ሺݒሻ ൌ หߣ௨௣ሺ௜ሻ′ ሺݒሻ െ ߣ௨௣ሺ௜ሻሺݒሻห              
 
where ߣ௜ሺݒሻ represents the probability different value of a upstream reachable probability in v between 
current value and i. The upstream registration process uses the following equation: 
ߣ௨௣ሺ௜ሻሺݒሻ ൌ ቊߣ௨௣ሺ௜ሻ
′ ሺݒሻ, ݂݅	ߣ௜ሺݒሻ ൒ ߜ
0,															݂݅	ߣ௜ሺݒሻ ൏ ߜ             
Where ߜ is the threshold value. When an upstream probability vary for a long time (which is bigger than a 
threshold ߜ), the corresponding upstream reachable probability is update in the buffer of v. Through the 
upstream update process, each node can choose the most reliable and best upstream node.  
In line 11, we find the maximum ߣ௨௣ሺ௫ሻሺݒሻ with sink_state(x) equal to true from the candidate set C(v), 
where xϵC(v). The sink_state(x) indicates that the node connect to the sink or not. Then, node check the 
upstream node of v should be update or not, in line 12-15. If there is an upstream probability of candidate 
node ߣ௨௣ሺ௫ሻሺݒሻ is bigger than upstream probability of current upstream node ߣ௨௣ሺ௨௣௦௧௥௘௔௠_௡௢ௗ௘ሻሺݒሻ, the 
upstream node of v should be switch to the x. The node v sends the upstream_change message to neighbors 
N(v). Finally, v updates the node probability NodeProbability(v) in table InformationList(v). 
This topology construction algorithm is a distributed algorithm. Each node switches the information by 
using beacon message, and constructs the sub-network graphic. Our proposed can construct topology quickly 
and reliably through choose the best upstream node with highest upstream reachable probability. When 
network is large or variance, the topology can adjust quickly. Besides, our proposed have the property of 
scalability and adaptability.     
 8
 
Figure 4. The sub-graphic instance:topology stable. 
C. Energy-Efficient Topology Maintenance Scheme 
Given a certain number of nodes distributed in a specific area, topology construction aims at building a 
reduced topology that will enhance network reachable probability while preserving network connectivity and 
area coverage. Once the initial reduced topology has been created, the network starts performing the tasks it 
was designed for. Every activity involved in the network’s mission, like sensing, processing, and distribution 
of the information has an associated cost that will consume the energy of the active sensors. Therefore, in 
order to increase the total network lifetime, the set of active sensors, the ones in the reduced topology, cannot 
be active all the time. Rather, a topology maintenance mechanism should be in place to build a new reduced 
topology – with the collaboration of formerly inactive nodes – so that all nodes participate in the network, 
consume their energy in a fair manner, and increase the lifetime of the network. Topology Maintenance is 
defined as the process that restores, rotates, or recreates the network topology from time to time when the 
current reduced one is no longer optimal. It involves rotating the role of nodes as much as possible to increase 
the network lifetime. 
When the sub-graphic of node is stable, the node can trigger the topology maintain process. The topology 
maintenance algorithm shows in Fig. 5. 
Function Topology Maintenance Algorithm at node (v): 
1. If receive message from neighbor nϵN(v) 
2. { 
3.     Update ߝ௥௠ሺ݊ሻ to InformationList(v) 
4.     Ifߝ௥௠ሺݑ݌ݏݐݎ݁ܽ݉_݊݋݀݁ሻ  < ߝ௧௛ሺݒሻ 
5.     { 
6.         Find CandidateSet C(v)  
7.         If C(v) == NULL 
8.         { 
9.             Update ߝ௧௛ሺݒሻ 
10.         } 
11.         Trigger Topology Construction Algorithm 
12.     } 
13. } 
14. If send message to neighbor nϵN(v) 
15. { 
16.     Update ߝ௥௠ሺ݊ሻ to InformationList(v) 
17.     If ߝ௥௠ሺݒሻ < ߝ௧௛ሺݒሻ 
18.     { 
 10
 
Figure 6. Average packet delivery ratio comparison (Rc =10). 
 
 
Figure 7. Average packet delivery ratio comparison (network size=200). 
The next experimental result, we discuss the performance during the topology control which is include 
topology construction and topology maintenance. Figure 8 and 9 display the results of the simulation of the 
lifetime of the system. Lifetime is defined as the time taken for a certain percentage of all nodes to run out of 
energy. As expected, the system lifetime achieved using the proposed algorithm is longer than that achieved 
using other algorithms. Our proposed provides the rising curve, as shown in Fig. 8. When network size large, 
some nodes in backbone consume large energy frequently for data delivery in CONREAP and EELTC. The 
source transmission rate (STR) means how much times to broadcast a packet to the network. Our proposed 
scheme has the larger network time than CONREAP and EELTC, as shown in Fig. 9. Our topology control 
algorithm supplies the reliable topology through the construction of backbones can offer better support for 
broadcasting and routing of data packets after the topology construction. The conversion of partial nodes 
constitutes the main motivation for energy balance in topology maintenance. The reliable routes and energy 
balance of nodes can great reduce the energy consumption for prolong system lifetime.  
 
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000
A
ve
ra
ge
 P
ac
ke
t D
el
iv
er
y 
R
at
io
Network Size
RETC
CONREAP
EELTC
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20
A
ve
ra
ge
 P
ac
ke
t D
el
iv
er
y 
R
at
io
Communication Radius (m)
RETC
CONREAP
EELTC
 12
 
Figure 11. Maximum remaining energy comparison. 
 
B. Conclusions 
This project has presented a distributed reliable and energy-efficient topology control algorithm, 
designated as RETC, for the construction of efficient topology for wireless sensor networks using 
intermittently link in particular. Several related protocols are just focus on topology construction or topology 
management. The optimal topology control should take into consider for both topology construction and 
topology management, after deployment phase. Our propose method is a distributed algorithm that enables 
nodes to autonomously create and maintain energy-efficient links. The protocol defines proximity and 
eligibility metrics to ensure reliable network and to extend lifetime. In topology construction phase, nodes can 
autonomously build a high network reachable probability and reliable topology. We balance the energy 
consumption of nodes through multi-level energy threshold, and then trigger topology construction to build a 
new reliable and energy-efficient topology. Simulation results further demonstrate that the proposed topology 
control algorithm can achieve a high packet delivery ratio, high reliable property and extend network lifetime. 
References 
[1] F. Wang and J. Liu, “Networked Wireless Sensor Data Collection: Issues, Challenges, and Approaches,” 
IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials, Vol. 13, Issue 4, pp. 673-687, 2011. 
[2] [3] D. Wang, B. Xie, and D. P. Agrawal, “Coverage and Lifetime Optimization of Wireless Sensor 
Networks with Gaussian Distribution,” IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, Vol. 7, No. 12, pp. 
1444-1458, December 2008. 
[3] J. Ma, M. Gao, Q. Zhang, and L. M. Ni, “Energy-Efficient Localized Topology Control Algorithms in 
IEEE 802.15.4-Based Sensor Networks,” IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, Vol. 
18, No. 5, pp. 711-720, May 2007. 
[4] [7] L. LoBello and E. Toscano, “An Adaptive Approach to Topology Management in Large and Dense 
Real-Time Wireless Sensor Networks,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, Vol. 5, No. 3, pp. 
314-324, August 2009.  
[5] E. Toscano and L. Lo Bello, “A Topology Management Protocol with Bounded Delay for Wireless 
Sensor Networks,” Proceedings of the IEEE Internal Conference Emerging Technologies and Factory 
Automation (ETFA), pp. 942–951, 2008. 
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
7000
8000
9000
600 700 800 900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500
M
ax
im
um
 R
em
ai
ni
ng
 E
ne
rg
y 
(J
)
Network Size
RETC
CONREAP
EELTC
 1
國科會補助專題研究計畫出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：101 年 10 月 30 日 
一、參加會議經過 
1. 民國 101 年 3 月底，接到 ICISA2012 的接受通知及各項註冊須知。5 月初向學校
提出出國申請並著手辦理訂購機票與出國手續。 
2. 5 月 22 日啟程飛往韓國首爾，接著轉達機場巴士往會議舉辦地京畿道水原市。 
3. 5 月 23 日至會議地點京畿大學 Kyonggi University 辦理報到手續，聽取和無線感
測器網路相關的論文發表了，並與幾位外國學者交換彼此間之研究結果。 
4. 5/24 日以口頭方式發表論文，有其他學者提供一些寶貴的建議。同時也聽取一些
跨領域的論文發表，並和與會學者提問，獲益良多。 
5. 5/25 大會提供參訪行程。 
計畫編號 NSC   100-2221-E-251-008- 
計畫名稱 無線感測器網路中具有能量效能之分散式拓樸控制演算法 
出國人員
姓名 許良政 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立屏東商業技術學院資訊工程
系副教授 
會議時間 
101 年 5 月 23 日
至 
101 年 5 月 25 日 
會議地點 韓國京畿道水原市京畿大學 
會議名稱 
(中文)2012 年資訊科學與應用國際會議 
(英文)2012 International Conference on Information Science and 
Applications (ICISA 2012) 
發表題目 
(中文)無線感測器網路中具信賴度與拓撲控制演算法 
(英文) A Distributed Reliable and Energy-Efficient Topology Control 
Algorithm in Wireless Sensor Network 
附件五 
 3
with topology construction and maintenance. In the topology construction phase, we build 
a reliable topology to reduce the packet retransmission. We use intermittently links and 
natural of wireless network. Anyone can receive the packet, when it in someone’s 
coverage. Therefore, we combined these features to build a high network reachable 
probability. It can enhance the network efficiency. In addition to, we propose the dynamic 
topology maintenance method, which can balance the energy consumption by multi-level 
energy threshold. Our proposed method can obtain the high network reachable probability 
and to extend the network lifetime. Experiments indicate the superiority of the proposed 
algorithm in terms of average energy consumption and network lifetime. 
四、建議 
近幾年來韓國似乎很熱衷舉辦國際會議，至少在資訊這個領域本人常收到CFP。
在本人在 80 年初剛開始念研究所時，很少聽過有同學或老師參加韓國的學術會議，
或許隨著韓國經濟能力的提昇，也想讓世界看到他們的學術能力有關。中國這些年
來也走向這個模式，經也有 CFP 寄到許多老師的信箱。 
事實上，台灣在資訊學術領域早已有不錯的表現，但若經由多舉辦國際研討會，
能讓世界學者多來台灣，除學術上的交流，也可行銷台灣的風景名勝與文化內涵，
甚至讓世界更知道保留傳統華文文化最豐富的地方是在台灣。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. ICISA 2012 論文集: 內容為會議論文之全文 
2.ICISA 2012 Conference Handbook:大會議程與投稿者之論文摘要 
3.大會附贈環保帆布袋一個 
4.大會紀念品 (原子筆、隨身碟)一份 
六、其他 



國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 無線感測器網路中具有能量效能之分散式拓樸控制演算法
計畫主持人: 許良政
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-251-008- 學門領域: 計算機網路與網際網路
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
