 2
However, it is difficult to keep the indexed
RDF up to date by crawling RDF documents
on web sites. Another problem is the cost of
building large server for RDF search engine.
The components in RDF models,
subjects, predicates, and objects, are
identified universally on the web, which
makes it suitable for distributed operations
[2]. Thus decentralized approach such as
peer-to-peer technology could be ideal choice
to develop RDF management system. There
are several researches on P2P-based RDF
management, such as Edutella [4] and
RDFPeers [5].
In this project, we combine both the
above approaches by developing
ontology-based distributed RDF management
using DHT technology on un-centralized P2P
network. We therefore design a two-level
ring on the P2P network, where the first level
is based on the ontology schema and the next
one is on the RDF itself.
In Web 2.0, the mechanism is naturally
embedded in various kinds of services to
support the multi-directional information
flow among authors and readers. In Semantic
Web context, the collaboration is further
employed to create new knowledge to be
reused based on the exchange of knowledge
on the distributed knowledge-based
environment [18]. As mentioned previously,
annotation taking and sharing is essential to
facilitate knowledge management and
collaborative learning. In this paper, we
attempt to take advantages of both
technologies, i.e., collaborative services in
Web 2.0 and semantic integrated
infrastructure in Semantic Web, to develop a
platform for managing personal annotations.
On this platform, user can annotate lecture
contents and share the annotated results using
Web 2.0 services, like wiki, blog, instant
messaging, etc., or reading tools, for example,
MS PowerPoint, Adobe Acrobat.
2. System Architecture
The system architecture in each peer
node is divided into three layers, P2P
Network Layer, RDF Management Layer,
and Service Layer, from bottom to top. The
P2P Network Layer allows any device to join
the network as a peer node to exchange
messages with each other and collaborate
independently of the underlying network
topology. In the middle is the RDF
Management Layer performing two tasks, the
DHT topology management and distributed
RDF store management. The former is
carried out by the Two-level Routing Module
along with Intra- and Inter-finger tables. The
latter is divided into management functions
on distributed store and local RDF store.
Distributed store consists of the triples of
distributed RDF store dispatched to a node
according to of the DHT topology. Service
Layer provides an interface for user to boot
and configure the peer itself and access both
the local and distributed RDF stores.
We extend the RDF ring mechanism in
RDFPeers by distinguishing the ontology
schema of in RDF triples. The basic idea is
that the RDF triples of a schema are
distributed to the same ring. We therefore
design a two-level ring on the P2P network,
where the first level is based on the ontology
schema and the next one is on the RDF itself.
System assigns each peer node with two
identifiers in order to identify itself in the
two-level ring network. One is GROUP_ID
that is used to recognize to which schema
group the peer node belongs. The other,
PEER_ID, identifies itself within the
belonging group. In the following, we
describe them in order. In this paper, we
define the symbol, Node (G, P), to describe a
node in the two-level ring, where G means
GROUP_ID, and P means PEER_ID.
In this project, we design the two-level
ring based on the JXTA P2P network. We
thus take advantage of the peer node
identifier of JXTA to design our peer
identifier. In JXTA P2P network, each node
is assigned a unique identifier when it joins
the network. The identifier is composed of a
UUID field. A UUID is a 128-bit universally
unique identifier. To simply the design of the
PEER_ID, we choose to modulo the peer
identifier in JXTA with a 2-power number.
3. Simulation and Implementation
 4
of FOAF sample is 891 bytes and there are
12 triples in the RDF file. In this experiment,
we let Peer 1 to 4 publish SIOC sample and
Peer 5 to 8 publish FOAF sample while the
joining step finish. We use the following two
SPARQL query patterns and the response
time is summarized in Table 2.
Query1:
PREFIX dc: <http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/>
SELECT ?r
WHERE { ?r dc:title ?z .}
Query 2:
PREFIX dc:
<http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/>
SELECT ?r ?c
WHERE { ?r dc:title ?z . ?r dc:creator ?c}
TABLE 2: PERFOAMANCE MESUREMENT OF 8-PEER NETWORK
Join Publish Qry1 Qry2
1 2266 625 516 1056
2 2251 6047 1801 1104
3 6938 1390 172 667
4 5094 5766 1280 1196
5 5390 3531 944 1045
6 4735 3953 797 856
7 5657 1406 612 944
8 5328 4719 1409 956
Avg 4707 3430 941 978
The Personal Wiki System
The performance measurement to some
extent shows a preliminary success in
building the prototype for the development of
social collaboration services for e-learning.
The social collaboration services are
implemented by using the application
program interfaces when dealing with
distributed RDF store.
We add an annotation plug-in to
TiddlyWiki 2 , a personal wiki tool using
HTML with Javascript technology, as the
tool for managing personal notebooks.
Behind the user interface, the associated
annotations in RDF is created and stored as
local file. The RDF file is then published to
the distributed RDF store for other to share.
As described previously, the annotations
associated with wikitext are represented in
____________________________________
2 TiddlyWiki: a reusable non-linear personal web
notebook. See http://www.tiddlywiki.com/.
RDF with vocabulary mainly reusing the
SIOC ontology [15][16]. For example, in
Figure 5 is an example of blog post with the
attached annotations.
When Content Manager detects a newly
created text, it then gathers the metadata
about the new resource, suck as author
information, created time, the source address
etc., and save the information in a local RDF
file using the vocabulary just described.
Whenever any text is modified, the Content
Manager repeats the action that it has done
before and save the new RDF file.
We use the Comment Plugin tool in
TiddlyWiki to support the annotation
function for user to annotate posts in found
the wiki system. When a user published some
comments, the Annotation Manager reads the
original HTML article about comments and
turned these comments into RDF format as
shown in Figure 6 and inserts it in the
original RDF file of the post. The comments
published by readers except the original
creator, should not connect with the original
articles immediately. Actually, Annotation
Manager preserves these new comments and
related RDF files in the local repository for a
while, and checks whether the original article
creator is online. The new annotations will
then write in repository which located in the
peer that belongs to the original article
creator.
4. Conclusion
We develop 3-layer system architecture
on peer-to-peer network for building social
collaboration services to facilitate
collaborations in e-Learning. From bottom to
top in the system architecture are peer
network, distributed RDF management, and
service layers. We combine the Semantic
Web and Web 2.0 technologies to develop
the distributed ontology-based RDF store of
the system architecture. At the service layer,
social collaboration services invoke the
application program interfaces provided by
the underlying distributed RDF management
layer to make the annotation sharable to other
user on the peer-to-peer network. We have
implemented and tested the distributed RDF
 1 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：   年   月   日 
一、參加會議經過、與會心得 
自 200年起，「法則應用及互通性國際研討會」，已成為國際間探討法則技術的年度重要論壇，今
年在美國拉斯維加斯舉辦。今年主題涵蓋實用法則技術及以法則為基礎的應用，尤其著重續要語
言標準的法則運算，如語意網、多代理人系統、事件驅動架構、及服務導向應用等。進入 21世紀，
全球網出現協作式(collaborative)服務，如Web 2.0，及知識網建設，如語意網，二者也有整合成協
作式的知識網架構。這個架構的知識框架(knowledge schema)已經定義完備，如W3C的 RDF、OWL
等，目前正積極往上建設 Rule/inference層，如 RuleML，Rule Interchange Format(RIF)等。RuleML
國際研討會，是這方面重要論壇，會議組織成員，如 Harold Boley、Adrian Paschke等積極參與 Rule
標準制定。RuleML-2009有 Challenge Track，探討 Rule技術之應用，接受論文出版為 CEUR論文
集(RuleML-2009論文由 Springer-Verlag出版)。本人也擔任這個單元的共同主席，及議程委員會委
員，參與會議籌辦，及論文審查，與他國委員經由電話會議，討論學習國際會議之運作收穫良多。
除了上述所列文章外，另有其它一篇被接受文章，Agent Mediated CPA Negotiation Using Defeasible 
Logic Technology，因時間疏忽而來不及排入 RuleML Challenge議程中報告。本次會議共收到 47
篇投稿，每篇文章至少有 5個議程委員審查，過程嚴謹，其中 12篇被接受為 full paper、13篇為
short paper。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
計畫編號 NSC 98－2221－E－036－042－ 
計畫名稱 在本體知識架構的同儕網路上建立個人化社會協同服務 
出國人員
姓名 葉慶隆 
服務機構
及職稱 
大同大學資工系 副教授 
會議時間 2009 年 11 月 5 日至 2009 年 11 月 7 日 會議地點 
Las Vegas, Nevada, USA 
會議名稱 
(中文) RuleML 2009: 法則交換及應用國際 RuleML研討會 
(英文) RuleML 2009: The International RuleML Symposium on Rule Interchange 
and Applications 2009 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)1.全球網上法則系統之挑戰; 2. 以法則技術遏止政府保險之詐欺 
(英文)1. Challenge for Rule Systems on the Web; 2. Using Rule Technology for Fraud 
Prevention in Government Insurance 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/11/05
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 在本體知識架構的同儕網路上建立個人化社會協同服務
計畫主持人: 葉慶隆
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-036-042- 學門領域: WEB 技術
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
RuleML國際研討會，是這方面重要論壇，會議組織成員，如Harold Boley、Adrian 
Paschke 等積極參與 Rule 標準制定。RuleML-2009 有 Challenge Track，探討
Rule 技術之應用，接受論文出版為 CEUR 論文集(RuleML-2009 論文由
Springer-Verlag 出版)。本計劃人也擔任這個單元的共同主席，及議程委員會
執行委員，參與會議籌辦，及論文審查，與他國委員經由電話會議，討論學習
國際會議之運作收穫良多。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
