2. Demand forecasting in a panel 
manufacturer 
A TFT-LCD manufacturing process consists 
of three basic process stages: array, cell, and 
module. The array process and processing 
steps are simpler versions of the 
semiconductor industry. The cell process 
consists of many steps that assemble 
TFT-array substrate, color filter (CF) 
substrate and polarizer. The module process 
is the last stage that determines the final 
product to be fit to delivery to the customer. 
At the end, the stages are assembled together 
with all the necessary parts, including the 
drive IC (integrated circuit), PCB (printed 
circuit board), backlight unit and frame. The 
planning system of each process has different 
goals. For example, the array and cell 
processes are classified as capacity-oriented 
productions that emphasize the high 
utilization of machines; they also reduce the 
chance of capacity loss. This is so because 
such processes require expensive equipment. 
However, the module process involves a 
material-oriented production environment 
that depends on the availability of key 
components including drive IC, PCB, 
backlight unit, frame, etc. Improving the 
accuracy of demand forecasting has become 
a primary concern for thin-film transistor 
liquid crystal display (TFT-LCD) 
manufacturers. 
Lin et al. (2006) proposed a 
methodology for the supply and demand in 
the TFT-LCD market. A heuristic approach 
is used to forecast the future supply, while a 
transfer function model is used to forecast 
the future demand. The analysis of the supply 
and demand methodology shows that it could 
predict whether or not there appears to be a 
shortage in the market of 2004. Lo et al. 
(2008) investigated the LCD monitor market 
using a hierarchical forecasting approach. 
The results show that the best forecast results 
can be obtained by using the middle-out 
forecasting approach. 
 Individual forecasts can produced by 
forecasting models such as autoregressive 
integrated moving average (ARIMA), 
decomposition, transfer function, and the 
Bass diffusion model with price variable. 
They can also be produced by growth 
curve models such as Probit curve, 
Gompertz curve and the Logistic curve. 
The Transfer function is also called a 
multiple input Box-Jenkins model (Box et al., 
1994), which is a time series modeling 
process that describes a single dependent 
series as a function of its own past values and 
the values of one or more independent input 
series. As with univariate modeling, the 
purpose of multiple input modeling is to find 
the model that accounts for the predictable 
portion of the dependent series. Such a model 
can then be used for both forecasting and 
control. The Bass diffusion model can 
describe the empirical adoption curve quite 
well for many new products and 
technological innovations (Bass, 1969). The 
Bass diffusion model implies exponential 
growth of initial purchases to a peak and then 
exponential decay. This model provides good 
predictions of the timing and magnitude of 
the sales peak for the products to which it is 
applied. Bass et al. (1994) proposed a 
generalized Bass model, which includes 
decision variables such as price and 
advertising. The generalized model can be 
reduced to the Bass model in special cases; it 
also explains why the Bass model works so 
well without decision variables. Bass (1969) 
used the ordinary least squares (OLS) 
method to estimate the parameters. 
Schmittlein and Mahajan (1982) used the 
maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) 
method to improve the estimation. Srinivsan 
and Mason (1986) used a nonlinear least 
square estimation (NLS) to obtain the valid 
error estimates. Growth curve models have 
been performed to forecast many different 
markets with successful results (Meade, 
1984). The Gompertz and Logistic curve are 
widely used curves to forecast products. 
Meade and Islam (1995) proposed the simple 
logistic for product forecasting, while the 
Gompertz models are shown to significantly 
outperform more complex models. The 
Probit model is another common curve 
utilized to forecast product demand 
(Daganzo, 1979). For these reasons, we 
 2
well as neuron-fuzzy systems. Dong (2002) 
used the adaptive-network-based fuzzy 
inference system (ANFIS) concept to 
combine several individual forecasts. Caydas 
et al. (2009) used the ANFIS model for the 
prediction of the white layer thickness (WLT) 
and the average surface roughness achieved 
as a function of the process parameters. The 
ANFIS, first proposed by Jang (1993), 
combined the benefits of ANN and fuzzy 
inference systems. Fuzzy inference system is 
the use of either prior experiences or 
knowledge into a set of constraints to obtain 
the optimize solution. The ANN structure 
can capture quite obvious patterns. ANFIS 
could adapt the parameters of the 
membership functions quickly and optimize 
them depending on the data being input. 
Here, we investigated the nonlinear 
combined forecast which can be obtained by 
two individual forecasts and three linear 
combined forecasts obtained by ANFIS. In 
our proposed method, we assumed that the 
FIS have five inputs  (the first 
forecasting model at period t),    (the 
second forecasting model at period t),  
(the Bates and Granger’s combining model at 
period t),  (the Bessler and Brandt’s 
combining model at period t) and   (the 
linear composite model at period t); it also 
has output z (the best-fitted forecasts 
produced by ANFIS).  The first-order 
Sugeno fuzzy model has become a common 
practice on ANFIS implements in the past. 
Thus, we used the same model. The process 
shows as follows: 
tF ,1
tF ,2
tF ,3
tF ,4
tF ,5
Layer 1: In this layer, each node is called an 
input linguistic node and corresponds to one 
input linguistic variable. The nodes transmit 
input forecasts to the next layer directly. 
Each node function can be modeled by fuzzy 
membership function. Here, the generalized 
bell membership function and Gaussian 
membership function are used. 
Layer 2: Each node in this layer calculates 
the firing strength of a rule via 
multiplication. 
Layer 3: The ith node in this layer calculates 
the ratio of the ith rule’s firing strength to the 
sum of all the rules’ firing strengths. The 
result would be the normalized firing 
strengths. For convenience, the output of this 
layer will be called the ‘normalized firing 
strengths’. 
Layer 4: In this layer, each node i in this 
layer is a square node with a node function. 
Parameters in this layer will be referred to as 
consequent parameters by node function. 
Layer 5: The single node in this layer 
computes the final combining forecast as the 
summation of all incoming forecasts. All of 
the ANFIS functions were carried out in the 
mathematical software package MATLAB. 
 
4. Case study 
In general, a large TFT-LCD market can be 
divided in terms of application level (monitor, 
notebook, LCD-TV and industrial), size level 
(15-inches, 17-inches and 19-inches etc. for 
monitor product), resolution level, and 
product model. Because of the confidentiality 
entitled to the companies, we only 
investigated the size level of the LCD 
monitor market. The data set in Table 1 is 
recorded from the first quarter of 2000 to the 
fourth quarter of 2007. Also, Figures 3-5 
show the trends for all different inches. The 
last two quarters are used as the holdout 
periods to test the forecasting accuracy. 
 To demonstrate the application of the 
proposed methodology, we presented the 
analysis results using the rolling concept. R0, 
the first analysis, is the data set from 
2000/Q1 to 2007/Q2. It was used to obtain 
the forecasting fitted model. The data in 
2007/Q3 was used to test one-period ahead 
forecasting accuracy. The second analysis is 
called R1, and it is the data set from 2000/Q1 
to 2007/Q3; R1 was used to obtain the fitted 
forecasting model. The data in 2007/Q4 was 
used to test the forecasting accuracy of the 
period ahead. 
According to the data from the 
company’s shipment and several forecasting 
models in Section 3, we found that the 
best-fit model for 15-inches was the 
Decomposition model; for the 17-inches and 
19-inches, it was the Transfer function; for 
 4
C. (1994). Time Series Analysis 
Forecasting and Control. Englewood 
Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall. 
Caydas, U., Hascalik, A. & Ekici, S. (2009). 
An adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system 
(ANFIS) model for wire-EDM. Expert 
Systems with Applications, 36, 6135-6139. 
Clemen, R. T. (1989). Combining forecasts: 
a review and annotated. International 
Journal of Forecasting, 5, 559-583. 
Daganzo, C. (1979). Multinomial Probit, the 
Theory and its Application to Demand 
Forecasting. New York: Academic Press. 
Donaldson, R. G. & Kamstra, M. (1996). 
Forecast combining with neural networks. 
Journal of Forecasting, 15, 49-61. 
Dong, J. R. (2002). A nonlinear combining 
forecast method based on fuzzy neural 
network,” Proceedings of the First 
International Conference on Machine 
Learning and Cybernetics, Beijing, pp. 
2160-2164. 
Fiordaliso, A. (1998). A nonlinear forecasts 
combination method based on 
Takagi–Sugeno fuzzy systems. 
International Journal of Forecasting, 14, 
367-379. 
Granger, C. W. J. & Terasvirta, T. (1993). 
Modelling Nonlinear Economic 
Relationships. New York: Oxford 
University Press. 
Jang, J. S. R. (1993). ANFIS: 
adaptive-network-based fuzzy inference 
system. IEEE Transactions on Systems, 
Man, Cybernetics, 23, 665-685. 
Lin, J. T., Wang, F. K., Lo, S. L., Hsu, W. T. 
& Wang, Y. T. (2006). Analysis of the 
supply and demand in the TFT-LCD 
market. Technological Forecasting and 
Social Change, 73, 422-435. 
Lo, S. L., Wang, F. K. and Lin, J. T. (2008). 
Forecasting for the LCD monitor market. 
Journal of Forecasting, 27, 341-356. 
Meade, N. (1984). The use of growth curves 
in forecasting market development – a 
review and appraisal. Journal of 
Forecasting, 3, 429-451. 
Meade, N. & Islam, T. (1995). Forecasting 
with growth curves: an empirical 
comparison. International Journal of 
Forecasting, 11, 199-215. 
Nelson, C. R. (1984). A benchmark for the 
accuracy of econometric forecasts of GNP. 
Business Economics, 19, 52-58. 
Palit, A. K. & Popovic, D. (2000). Nonlinear 
combination of forecasts using artificial 
neural networks, fuzzy logic and 
neuro-fuzzy approach. The Ninth IEEE 
International Conference of Fuzzy 
Systems, pp. 566-571. 
Robinson, B. & Lakhani, C. (1975). Dynamic 
price models for new product planning. 
Management Science, 10, 1113-1122. 
Schmittlein, D. C. & Mahajan, V. (1982). 
Maximum likelihood estimation for an 
innovation diffusion model of new product 
acceptance. Marketing Science, 1, 57-78. 
Srinivasan, V. & Mason, C. H. (1986). 
Nonlinear least squares estimation of new 
product diffusion models. Marketing 
Science, 5, 169-178. 
 
Self Evaluation 
During these three years, we have been 
finished three papers. One paper has been 
accepted by the journal “Expert Systems with 
Applications (SCI)”. Two papers have been 
submitted to SCI journals for reviewing. 
 6
