Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
Appendix M Dip-pen Lithography .................................................... - 28 - 
Appendix N Focused Ion Beam Lithography .................................. - 29 - 
Appendix O Nano-imprint Lithography .......................................... - 30 - 
5. Reference ....................................................................................................... - 32 - 
Abstract 
The rapid progress in microlithography technologies following Moore’s law has 
been kept for half a century. The minimum half-pitch size has been reduced to 65nm 
and the exposure wavelength to 193nm. The immersion technique will be applied to 
193nm scanners in the near future, which can extend optical lithography to 45nm 
node. According to the International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors in 
2006, the half-pitch size will shrink to 32 nm in 2012. However, there is no promising 
solution to extend traditional optical projection lithography (OPL) to 32-nm node and 
beyond. 
Maskless lithography (ML2) has gained renewed interests as the cost and 
challenges of optical lithography masks increase. Major advantages of ML2 over OPL 
include reduced mask costs, reduced number of mask redesigns, and shorter mask 
cycle time. The requirements for ML2 are readily defined, but the implementation 
path is not necessarily obvious so far. In 32-nm node ML2 technologies, the data 
transmission rate is about several tens tera-bits per second, as is another challenge of 
ML2. To transfer and management this huge data from storage system to large number 
of E-beam writing element, we needs to design a dedicated data processing system. 
This report is divided into two parts. The first part is to propose an e-beam based 
massively parallel maskless lithography (MPML2) system for 32-nm node next 
generation lithography (NGL). The second part we investigate several non e-beam 
ML2 technologies. 
In the first part, we consider the primary parameters, beam energy, number of 
source, number of column, and electron optical system step by step, and discuss 
different structures in some tables. After comparing the advantages and the 
disadvantages of different parameters, we proposed our preliminary architecture, 
writing strategy, and data transmission system designs. 
In the second part, we study six kinds of non e-beam ML2 technologies. They 
are Zone-plate Array Lithography (ZPAL), Optical Maskless Lithography (OML), 
Near-field Lithography, Dip-Pen Nanolithography (DPN), Focused Ion Beam 
Lithography (FIBL), Nano-imprint Lithography (NIL). All of them have capabilities 
of 32nm resolution patterning. We investigate their performances and then compared 
II 
Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
Research Method and Result 
1. Electron Beam Solution 
In the first part, we propose a micro-technology based MPML2 system to 
compete with other multiple EB systems. In order to find a proper and achievable 
schematic of our MPML2 system, we evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of 
four primary parameters in multiple EB system structure. They are beam energy, 
number of source, number of column, and electron optical system (EOS) types. 
These evaluations are made via literature survey and simulation. After evaluations, 
we propose our MPML2 schematics and the writing strategy and data transmission 
systems are also proposed. 
As Table 1 shows, several promising EB-ML2 systems are summarized with 
the respects of # f beam, source, column, voltage, and EOS types. (see Appendix A, 
Appendix B, Appendix C, Appendix D, Appendix E, and Appendix F) 
 
  # of beams source column voltage EOS 
MAPPER 
13,000 
(DW) 
single single 5 keV E 
ADVANTEST 
(MCC) 
16 / 64 
(DW / VSB) 
multiple 
(1 per CC) 
single 
(multiple CC)
50 keV E & M 
Canon 
4,096 
(DW) 
single single 50 keV E & M 
KLA-Tensor 
(REBL) 
8000*500 
(projection) 
single single 50 keV E & M 
Multibeam 
10 
(DW) 
multiple multiple 50 keV E 
Leica 
(PML2) 
290,000 
(projection) 
single single 5->100 keV E & M 
Table 1 Summary of six EB-ML2 technologies 
 
 
1.1. Beam Energy 
Generally, beam energy exceeding 20keV is defined to be high. The advantages 
and disadvantages of high/low voltage system are summarized in Table 2. 
 
- 1 - 
Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
Advantages 
(1) It can loose the requirement of current density and 
brightness by increasing source numbers. 
(2) It reduce the possible current loss at beam splitting units.
Multiple 
Disadvantages 
(1) It is hard to control beam uniformity of sources. 
(2) It is hard to maintain and replace the failure units if the 
source number is quite large. 
Table 3 Comparison of single-source & multiple-source systems 
Current density and brightness are the most critical challenge in EB-ML2 
systems. To achieve high throughput expected, sufficient high current density and 
brightness are needed. Here we simply evaluate our multi-beam system with 5kV 
accelerating voltage and 10 wafer/hr throughput in 300mm wafer. Consequently, 
196uA of emitting current is needed; this is quite high for available commercial 
source types. Moreover, we evaluate the source brightness at the conditions of 
10,000 beams, 1o converging angle, and 2 nm focusing spot diameter. The 
calculation results in about 2×108A/cm2sr brightness requirement. Actually, this 
value should be higher because we must add apertures to limit aberrations and this 
introduce additional current loss. Amount the source available, this brightness 
requirement is hard to achieve with the additional consideration of stability and 
life-time. 
We choose multiple sources structure in order to overcome the challenge of 
brightness. Multiple sources also can reduce the emitter unit size and make it easy to 
integrate to the micro-column structure via micro-fabricating process. 
 
1.3. Number of Column 
Column is the vacuum space in which the EOS operates. Single-column and 
multiple-column systems are discussed in Table 4. 
Advantages 
(1) It needs to implement only one set of vacuum system. 
(2) It can save more space to integrate more beamlets. 
Single 
Disadvantages 
(1) It is hard to integrate individual control or EO unit for a 
single beam when the number of beam is quite large. 
(2) Function of whole system will be affected if there is one 
failure beam.  
Multiple
- 3 - 
 
Advantages (1) It is easy to maintain and replace when there is a failure 
beam. 
(2) It could have various writing strategies if the columns 
Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
sufficient. We also need the deflecting and blanking system to operate in the 
frequency of several to several tens of MHz, so electrostatic devices are preferable. 
 
1.5. Architecture 
After the discussion above, architecture of our MPML2 system can be proposed. 
As Figure 1 shows, electrons are emitted from micro tips and pass through the 
micro-lens system. Like common EBL systems, the beam switches on and off by a 
blanker and scans orthogonally to the motion of stage by the deflector. We propose 
to add a set of detector and stigmator to check and correct the beam position. 
Figure 1 Schematic of MPML2 column 
 
1.6. Writing Strategy 
Writing strategies is mainly determined by beam configuration and the field 
size of single exposure. Electron beams can be mapped into a row or matrix of any 
shape. In order to limit beam-to-beam interactions, separation of neighboring beams 
is needed. However, the sufficient separating distance is still left unknown. 
We prefer to apply MAPPER’s writing strategy to our MPML2 system. As 
figure 2 shows, the beamlets are mapped into oblique rows. In a single row, 
beamlets are separate in a fix distance, which is the minimum distance ensuring 
ignorable interaction. The next neighboring row is placed in the same minimum 
distance from the former, and a deflecting length shift is introduced to ensure that all 
the scanning fields are different. The stage travels a raster route and scanning all 
area of wafer. 
- 5 - 
Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
Edge placement <1nm Pixel depth 6 bits/64 gray 
Chip size 10 mm×20 mm Chip data (one layer) 4.68 Tb 
Wafer size 300mm Wafer data (one layer) 1680 Tb 
Writing time 
(one layer) 
60 s Data rate 28.8 Tb/s 
Table 6 Data specifications in pixel type format 
It is an important issue to choose the data representation. It affects the data size 
directly. In this project we consider of hierarchy, vector, pixel, and hybrid format. If 
the layout figures are all polygon, the data size of vector type data will be ten times 
smaller than pixel data. However, if consider to electrical beam proximity effect, the 
data size will increase enormously. Therefore, we propose a new data format: pixel 
and vector hybrid format. (see (7)Appendix G) 
 
Original layout data Massive parallel writersFPGA data buffer boardData conversion 
Off-line Real-time 
Figure 3 Data path architecture 
The basic design of a data processing system capable of delivering tera-pixel 
data rate necessary to achieve next-generation maskless lithography is shown in 
Figure 3. This design consists of storage disks, a FPGA based data buffer processor 
board with memory (Figure 4) (see (7)Appendix H).[14] A heavily interconnected 
set of two Virtex-II Pro FPGAs makes up the core element of the buffer system. 
Each FPGA comprises various configurable elements and embedded blocks 
optimized for high-performance system designs.[15] The original layout data 
transfer to hybrid including pixel and vector type data. This hybrid data needs to be 
compressed by lossless compression method (see (7)Appendix I) [16] [17] and 
stored in the storage disks (RAID system). The action up to above can be done in 
off-line. Before the writing process begins, a single layer compressed data is 
transferred from disks to the FPGA based data buffer processor board. As the writers 
write a stripe across the wafer, compressed data is streamed from the processor 
board to the writers chip inside a vacuum column in real-time. The compressed data 
is decompressed by writers chip and control the blanker on or off. 
- 7 - 
Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
mirrors should tilt sufficiently fast, and the tilting angles 
should be controlled precisely. 
¾ To achieve 32nm line width, wavelength should be reduce to 
EUV (13.5nm). Then it will face most of the problems of 
EUV lithography, such as source life-time, no available 
resist, multi-coated mirror accuracy, and so on. 
Table 7 Strength & Weakness of ZPAL 
 
2.2. Optical Maskless Lithography (OML) 
OML, developed by ASML, replaces photomasks by a dynamic pattern 
generating device called spatial light modulator (SLM) which consists of 1.048M 
micro-mirrors. With the mirrors tilt or lift, intensities and phases of small patterns 
can be adjusted, and the whole pattern is imaged to the substrate through high 
demagnification projection lens. The strength and weakness of OML is summarized 
in Table 8. (see Appendix K) 
Strength 
¾ Advances in conventional mask-based optical lithography 
can be applied to OML, such as resists and RETs. 
Weakness 
¾ It is hard to control the uniformity of 1.048M mirrors. 
¾ To achieve 32nm line-width and below, wavelength should 
be reduce to EUV (13.5nm). It will face most of the problems 
of EUV lithography, such as source life-time, no available 
resist, multi-coated mirror accuracy, and so on. 
Table 8 Strength & Weakness of optical maskless lithography 
 
2.3. Near-field Lithography 
By approaching the resist surface within the distance of one wavelength, the 
electromagnetic distribution would be quite different than that under far-field 
condition. It can be used for optical lithography to surmount diffraction limit. The 
strength and weakness of near-field lithography is summarized in Table 9. (see 
Appendix L) 
Strength 
¾ There is no more diffraction limit, so high resolutions can be 
obtained by using long wavelength light. 
¾ Because the structure of waveguide is simple, it is easy to 
make a dense beamlets array. 
- 9 - 
Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
creating structures destructively. 
Weakness 
¾ Ion source requirements of low energy spread and high 
brightness are hard to achieve. 
¾ Swelling occurs when developing negative resists and as 
limits the resolution. 
¾ Ions, with thousands times of mass compared to electrons, 
cause more damage to resist and lower layer structures. 
¾ The ions, which lose energies and stays in the substrate, may 
serve as doping particles and effect the performance of 
circuits. 
Table 11 Strength & Weakness of FIBL 
 
2.6. Nano-imprint Lithography (NIL) 
NIL makes a 1:1 pattern transfer from mold to resist. There are three types of 
resist to use, one can be direct printed, and another should be heated to be soft, and 
the other should be exposed to cure by UV light after printing. The strength and 
weakness of NIL is summarized in Table 12. (see Appendix O) 
Strength 
¾ It performs a fast and low-cost lithographic process. 
¾ It has a possibility to print a whole wafer at one time. 
Weakness 
¾ The 1:1 mold preparation is time consuming and relies on 
some other high resolution, high throughput ML2 
technologies. 
¾ The printing uniformity is hard to control, especially in the 
side region of the mold. 
¾ Damage and contamination happen easily in repeated 
printing process. 
Table 12 Strength & Weakness of NIL 
 
2.7. Conclusion 
After the discussion above, we conclude that OML and ZPAL are more 
competitive than all the other technologies. The main reason lies in the abilities of 
contamination and damage control, as is important for repeated wafer manufacturing 
process. FIBL is a versatile technology but introduce more possibility for damage 
- 11 - 
Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
4. Appendices 
 
Appendix A The MAPPER System 
MAPPER Lithography BV is founded in 2001 by scientists in Delft University 
of Technology. The MAPPER system uses 13,000 beamlets simultaneously writing 
patterns on wafer at 5keV. A bundle of electrons emitted from one high current 
source are guided to massive aperture array to generate 13,000 beamlets. Beamlets 
are switched on and off by electrostatic blanker array, and passing through the 
deflecting and focusing lens array at the last stage. To form a scanning field of 26×
10mm2, the beam spots are arranged in a 200×65 array. The deflecting width of an 
individual beam is 2um. The MAPPER system aims at throughput about 10 300mm 
wafers per hour in 32nm node and it’s still under developed.[1][2][3]
Figure 5 Schematic of MAPPER system[1] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 13 - 
Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
Appendix C Canon’s System 
hree leaders of lithographic equipment, proposes a 
4096 m
Canon, who is one of the t
ultiple e-beam system which drives at 50keV beam energy. Electrons emitted 
from one thermionic source are split into 4096 beamlets by an aperture array. 
Deflectors and blankers are integrated below the apertures. A distinct layer named 
correction lens array (CLA) is attached, in order to correct field curvature induced 
from the lens systems. This system can expose a 4×4mm2 field at one time, each 
beam has a 4um deflecting width. Canon’s system is under development, and the 
official data of throughput evaluated is 56 200mm wafers per hour, which is 
unrealistic for mass production.[7]
 
 
Figure 7 Schematics of Canon’s System[7] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 15 - 
Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
Appendix E Multibeam 
beam proposes their ML2 solution based on the concept 
of vector shaped m
 
A new company Multi
ultibeam (VSM). The Multibeam system consist of a monoblock 
of a 10×1 micro-columns array on 30mm centers. Each micro-column has a thermal 
field emitter, and scans a stripe of 25×2um2. Electrons emitted hold 20keV energy 
and are accelerated to 50keV at the final part of the column. Each beamlet is 
square-shaped and by adjusting the focusing magnification, a variable size of square 
beam is obtained. Currently, the official data of throughput evaluated is about 5 
300nm wafers per hour at 45nm node.[9][10]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
beam -trim m ing
aperture
m oving lens
   focus
electrodes
wafer
beam  blanker
m ainfield
deflectors
suppressor
20kV accel
unblanked
beam
beam -defining
aperture
blanked
beam
subfield deflector/
s tigm ator
30kV accel
field-free tube
telecentric scanning
(>50um  off-axis )
BSE detector
beam -lim iting
aperture
alignm ent
deflectors
extraction aperture
focus  electrode
TFE tip
Figure 9 Schematic of Multibeam System[10] 
- 17 - 
Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
Appendix G Data Representation 
The appropriate choice of data representation is an important issue. The data 
lled Graphic Data System (GDS or GDSII). 
format for transferring 2D graphical design 
data.
format of original layout data is ca
GDSII Stream format is the standard file 
 It contains a hierarchy of structures, each structure containing elements such 
included polygons, polylines, and structure references. The hierarchy file can 
transfer to vector type file. And vector type file can further transfer to pixel file. The 
data size of the hierarchy is smallest, and the pixel file is biggest. However, the 
e-beam writers need to receive the pixel file. We should consider these three kinds of 
representations, hierarchical, vector, and pixel, need to define what kind of data type 
we choose to use.  
1. Pixel type format 
Pixel type is most widely used in mask-writer. We roughly calculate the data size 
in pixel type format. 
 
Device specifications Direct-write specifications 
Minimum feature 32nm Pixel size 16nm 
Edge placement <1nm Pixel depth 6 bits/64 gray 
Chip size 10 mm
Chip data 
×20 mm 
(one layer) 
4.68 Tb 
Wafer size 300mm 
Wafer data 
(one layer) 
1680 Tb 
W   riting time
(one layer) 
60 s Data rate 28.8 Tb/s 
Table 13  Direct-write specifications 
resents relev pecifications for devices with a 32nm um 
feature size. To meet these requirements, the corresponding specifications for a 
direct-write pixel-based lithography system are shown on the right side of Table 13. 
The 
Table 13 p ant s  minim
minimum feature size of 32 nm requires the size of 16 nm pixels. 
Sub-nanometer edge placement can be achieved using 6-bit gray pixels. 
- 19 - 
Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
anymore. For the graph of layout data after proximity correction, it becomes more 
complex than the original layout data. In this situation, Hybrid approaches may be a 
good solution. However, in hybrid format, we also need a data transfer chips in the 
writers to transfer data from hybrid format to pixel format. The implementation of 
the hybrid data format needs to be further considered. 
Vector-based 
method 
Pixel-based 
method 
 
 
 
 
Figure 12  Diagram for hybrid data format 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 21 - 
Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
Appendix I Data Compression 
Data compression is an effective method for saving storage space and 
ission bandwidth. The compression scheme must be lossless for the layout 
t be changed. The compression algorithm has to adapt to the changes in 
cture to make the compression ratio as big as possible. Meanwhile, the 
plementation of the compression and decompression must be minimizing memory 
n processing complexity and real-time ability 
hardware implem
transm
figure can’
the data stru
im
and power. The trade-off betwee
entation need to be further research. Recently a novel lossless 
compress technique called Context-Copy-Combinatorial-Code (C4). The C4 is 
designed dedicated for pixel format layout data. Although it can’t use in hybrid 
format data, but its algorithm is worth to investigate for our further research in data 
format chosen. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 23 - 
Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
capability of ZPAL with EUV source. We calculate the resolution from the 
resolution equation: min 1W  k NA
λ= × , with 0.8 k1 and 0.7 NA, and 13.5nm 
wavelength. About 15nm resolution is obtained. 
2. SLM 
 
Figure 16  Manufacturing process of zone-plate 
As figure shows, SLM consists of micro-mirror array in the path of the radiation. 
With accurate alignment and tilting angle adjustment, each mirror will be responsible 
for the illumination of an individual zone plate. 
3. Fabrication of UV Zone Plates 
 
Figure 17  Manufacturing process of zone-plate 
The main steps of the process are the following: 
1. Defining the areas in which the zone plates are going to be placed. 
2. Surrounding these areas with a Cr layer of the thickness calculated in the last 
section. 
3. E-beam write
ired
s the actual zones inside the clear circles. 
Reactive ion etch the wafer to provide the des π phase shift.[21]
- 25 - 
Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
Appendix L Near-field Lithography 
Under the near-field conditions, the local electromagnetic fields that exist 
lectric and metallic nanostructures can be used to circumvent the 
diffraction limit. Near-field lithography utilize some material and / or structure as a 
aveguide and place the waveguide extremely near to the resist, even contact with it, 
le when the excitation occurs at the resonance 
frequ
 
around die
w
to write high resolution patterns. 
A new approach that can potentially produce sub-wavelength structures uses 
broad beam illumination of standard resist with visible light. This method is based 
on the plasmon resonance occurring in nanoscale metallic structures. When a metal 
nanoparticle is placed in an optical field, it exhibits a collective electron motion 
known as the surface plasmon oscillation. This can result in strongly enhanced 
electrical fields near the partic
ency.[25]
 
Figure 19  Near-Field Lithography[26]
As Figure 19 shown, illumination of metal nanoparticles at plasmon resonance 
produces a strongly enhanced dipole field near the particle. This enhanced field can 
be used to locally expose a thin layer of resist. In order to obtain intensity 
enhancement directly below the particle, the incoming light should be polarized 
approximately normal to the resist layer (p-polarization), implying the need for 
glancing incidence exposure. W hancement 
occurring around metal nanoparticles when they are excited at the surface plasmon 
reson
e have shown that the local field en
ance frequency can be used to print nanoscale features in thin resist layers. 
Feature sizes below λ/10 can be generated using visible illumination and standard 
g-line photoresist.[26]
- 27 - 
Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
Appendix N Focused Ion Beam Lithography 
IBL is similar to EBL in applications, feature sizes and the fact that it is a serial 
approach, but uses a beam of ions instead of electrons (Figure21). A fundamental 
difference is that ions are charged atomic that can interact physically and chemically 
with, and settle into, the exposed material ,and the particles of which are many 
ore massive than electrons. This addition of material offers 
rather than just creating structures 
e is determined by the lateral dose distribution of the ion beam, 
which varies with depth in the resist.
orders of magnitude m
the possibility of building up structures 
destructively.[28]  
Ion Beam Lithography using MeV protons is a technique which is able to 
produce 3D microstructures in positive resists such as PMMA as well as in negative 
resists such as SU-8. An advantage of IBL is that no mask is needed to produce 
structures with high aspect ratios and sub-micrometer detail in the lateral direction. 
There are two basic features of the IBL setup: First is the implementation of a faster 
scanning system spherically designed for high resolution IBL. Second, the smallest 
feature size attainabl
[29]  
 
Figure 21  Schematic of focused ion beam lithography[30]
 
 
 
 
 
- 29 - 
Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
 
Figure 23  Step and Flash Imprinting Lithography[32]
 
3. Laser Assisted Direct Imprint 
In ‘laser-assisted direct imprint’ (LADI)—a single excimer laser pulse melts a 
thin surface layer of silicon, and a mould is embossed into the resulting liquid 
layer(Figure 24). A variety of structures with resolution better than 10 nm have been 
imprinted into silicon using LADI, and the embossing time is less than 250 ns. The 
high resolution and speed of LADI, which we attribute to molten silicon’s low 
viscosity (one-third that of water), could open up a variety of applications and be 
extended to other materials and processing techniques. [33]
 
Figure 24  Laser-assisted direct imprint[33]
 
 
 
 
 
- 31 - 
Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
[13] Juergen Gramss, Hans Eichhorn, Melchior Lempke, Renate Jaritz, 
Volker Neick, Dirk Beyer, Bertra
 
m Buerger, Ulrich Baetz, Klaus Kunze, 
 
 
, Microelectronic Engineering 83 (2006)  
 direct-write maskless 
[18] ith., “Experimental 
[19] ith Zone-Plate-Array Lithography by 
 
and Nikola Belic, “Data prep: the bottleneck of future applications?”, 
Proc. SPIE 6281, 2006 
[14] Sven-Hendrik Voss and Maati Talmi ,”FPGA based high-speed system 
solutions for innovative maskless lithography systems”, Proc. SPIE 
6283, 2006 
[15] Sven-Hendrik Voss a,*, Maati Talmi a, Juergen Saniter a, Juergen 
Eindorf a, Alexander Reisig a, Joachim Heinitz b, Ernst Haugeneder, 
“High-speed data storage and processing for projection mask-less 
lithography systems”
[16] Vito Dai and Avideh Zakhor ,”Lossless layout compression for maskless 
lithography systems”,  Proc. SPIE 3997, 2000 
[17] Hsin-I Liu, Vito Dai, Avideh Zakhor, and Borivoje Nikolic, “Reduced 
complexity compression algorithms for
lithography systems”,  Proc. SPIE 6151, 2006 
Rajesh Menon, Dario Gil, and Henry I. Sm
characterization of focusing by high-numerical-aperture zone plates” 
Journal of the Optical Society of America A, vol. 23, Issue 3, pp. 
567-571, 2006. 
Maskless Parallel Patterning w
Dario Gil, Master’s thesis, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, June 
2000. 
[20] Rajesh Menon, Amil Patel, David Chao, Michael Walsh, and H. I. Smith, 
“Zone-Plate-Array Lithography (ZPAL): Optical Maskless Lithography 
for Cost-Effective Patterning,” Proceedings of the SPIE, Volume 5751, 
pp. 330-339, 2005 
[21] Dario Gil, “Maskless Parallel Patterning with Zone-Plate-Array 
Lithography,” June 2000. 
[22] Timothy O’Neil, Arno Bleeker, and Kars Troost, “Optical Maskless 
Lithography (OML) Project Status,” Maskless Workshop, January 
17-19 2005. 
- 33 - 
