2 
 
itself a stochastic process (Adomian, 1983). It is prominent for modeling dynamic 
diffusion process that originates from the irregular Brownian motion of pollen 
particles suspended in water. Typically, SDEs incorporate white noise which can be 
thought of as the derivative of Brownian motion or the Wiener Process (Chung and 
Williams, 1990). SDE is widely used for modeling irregular motion, variability or 
uncertainty due to time series, and have been used to provide powerful solutions in 
finance, neuroscience, computational cell biology, and physics (Tan, 2002). 
Agent-based modeling (ABM) is another formalism that has been seen a number of 
applications in recent years to provide valuable information about the dynamics of 
complex systems (Bonabeau, 2002). It begins with the assumptions about agents and 
their rules of behaviors, then the computer is used to simulation to generate histories 
that reveal the consequences of these assumptions (Testfatsion and Judd, 2006). The 
ability of ABM to deal with emergent phenomena is the most important benefit over 
other modeling techniques (Bonabeau, 2002). By its very nature, ABM simulates the 
behavior of the system’s individual entities and their interactions, capturing the 
integrated behavior emerging from the bottom up. Thus, we can investigate how 
macro phenomena emerge from the micro-process of interactions among many agents. 
These agents can represent autonomous decision-making entities of complex systems, 
such as people in society, organism in an ecosystem and molecules in a biochemical 
network. 
In this study, we constructed SDEs via ABMs for biochemical networks whose 
integrated behaviors are described as S-systems. The agents stand for individual 
entities of each component of a system. If there are n+m variables, these agents can be 
divided into n+m types. Based on the probabilistic assumptions of occurrence of 
agents’ birth and death, we use simulation to generate birth-death processes of agents. 
Then the integrated behaviors of each component’s influx and efflux can be 
approximated by multivariate power-law functions. By the Central Limit Theorem 
and SDEs, we proved that our construction is valid in theory. Our simulated results of 
dynamics of integrated behaviors of ABMs can be characterized by S-systems 
experimentally. Moreover, the system properties of parameters emerge from agents’ 
interactions. 
 
2. Systems and Methods 
2.1 S-systems 
We are interested in the dynamics of a biochemical network at the level of pools 
of molecular species. Let X1, X2, …, Xn be the n dependent components and Xn+1, 
Xn+2, …, Xn+m be the m independent variables. At any time t, there is a 
4 
 
3332
3323
3
d
d hg XX
t
X βα +=  
 
3.2 Small-scale genetic network 
The second example is a small-gene genetic network (Halvacek and Savageau, 
1996). This is a typical gene interaction system consisting of two genes and has also 
been studied by Tsai and Wang (2005) (see Figure 2). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11161512
116531
1
d
d hggg XXXX
t
X βα +=  
2221
22712
2
d
d hg XXX
t
X βα +=  333232 3238233d
d hhg XXXX
t
X βα +=  
444543
446534
4
d
d hgg XXXX
t
X βα +=  
5554
55745
5
d
d hg XXX
t
X βα +=  
 
In this work we have created stochastic differential equations via agent-based 
models for biochemical systems and imposed assumption on individual behavior in 
the micro-level. This approach provides structural insights and the results are 
summarized as follows. First, the properties of S-systems about parameters emerge 
from agents’ interactions are related to degree of freedom of agents’ random 
combination. Unrestricted degree of freedom results in integer kinetic order, whereas 
restricted degree will generate fractional kinetic orders. Second, the hidden 
heterogeneity of stochastic noises can be exhibited explicitly. Third, our ABMs for 
biochemical networks are basic and provide an intuitive approach to understand 
complex systems from the bottom-up as well as the top-down. Finally, it is implied 
that advanced applications of mathematical models coupling with agent-based 
modeling might be more suited to portray complex biochemical network. 
Figure 2. Genetic network 
6 
 
Based on probability theory, the chemical master equation can be derived. And 
following the argument of Gellespie (2000), the SDEs are also derived. In particular, 
the variances of random noise in SDEs are sums of squires of the deterministic 
dynamics, which portray the average integrated behaviors of the regulation of gene 
expression. 
The regulation process of gene expression is so complex that we only focus on 
the transcription regulatory network in this study. But the ABM we propose can be 
added the other regulation stages, such as translation regulatory mechanism, 
degradation regulatory process, etc. And then, the mathematical model also can be 
derived. 
 
4. Conclusion 
The model in this work is to describe a regulatory network in a single cell. 
However, it can be extended to the multi-cell systems. If the number of cells are large 
enough, the SDEs can be derived directly from the large number theory, without the 
argument of Gellespie (2000). 
Every unit of time, each agent might be degraded or diluted with positive 
probability except for genes and binding sites. However, if we consider a cell with 
limited life in our agent-based model, its gene and binding site agents will be 
degraded when the cell dies. In case of defective cells, the probability values of 
degradation can be presumed positive for a gene or binding site agent. 
The combination of agent-based models together with stochastic differential 
equations affords a more complete perspective on gene regulatory networks, not only 
from the macro level but also from the micro level. Besides, the sources and 
magnitudes of deterministic dynamics and random noise can be explicitly 
characterized. 
 
References 
Adomian, G. (1983) Stochastic systems. Mathematics in Science and Engineering 169. 
Orlando, FL: Academic Press Inc. 
Bonabeau, E. (2002) Agent-based modeling: Methods and Techniques for Simulating 
Human Systems. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 99(Suppl.3): 7278-7280. 
Braunewell, S. and Bornholdt, S. (2007) Superstability of the yeast cell-cycle 
dynamics: Ensuring causality in the presence of biochemical stochasticity. J of 
Theor Biol 245: 638-643. 
Chang, Y-H, Wang, Y-C, and Chen, B-S (2006) Identification of transcription factor 
cooperativity via stochastic system model. Bioinformatics 22(18): 2276-2282. 
8 
 
identification from metabolic profiles. Bioinformatics 20(11): 1670-1681. 
Yeung, M.K.S., Tegner, J., and Collins, J.J. (2002) Reverse engineering gene networks 
using singular value decomposition and robust regression. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 
99(9): 6163-6168. 
 
 
參考文獻：本研究已發表在 IEEE BIBE 2009 
T-Y Wang, K-C Chen, F.D. Hsu, and C-Y Kao (2009) Combining agent-based 
models with stochastic differential equations for gene regulatory networks. The 9th 
IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics and Bioengineering (IEEE BIBE 
2009). 
 
計畫成果自評： 
本研究之內容與原計畫大致相符合，增加了“代理人模型”來模擬生化系統，雖
然尚未發表成期刊論文，但結合隨機微分方程與協和系統之數學模型，並以代理
人模型建立個別分子行為，模擬出整個系統的整體表現，若是在個別分子的部分
能考慮周延，預期應能得到符合生物現象的結果。 
 
Combining Cluster Analysis of Dynamics of Gene Expression Profiles 
 
Ying-Kai Jhong1, Tse-Yi Wang2 and Kuang-Chi Chen1,* 
 
1
 Department of Medical Informatics, Tzu Chi University, Hualien, Taiwan 
2
 Bioinformatics Lab, Dept. of CSIE, NTU, Taipei, Taiwan 
*
 Corresponding author 
 
Background: 
Time-series microarray data are produced under different biological conditions, 
which allow investigators to study the behaviors of genes over time and across 
conditions. Although various clustering methods have been proposed to group 
longitudinal array data, the best method often varies from one target data to another. 
Combination of multiple methods has been shown to be effective.  
 
Results and Discussion: 
This article proposes a two-stage procedure to analyze temporal microarray 
profiles. At the first stage, several model-based clustering methods are applied to 
group the gene-expression profiles. Next, support vector machine (SVM) method is 
carried out to combine the results of previous step. The combination of heterogeneous 
and well-performing methods may achieve the best performance. We apply this 
procedure to simulated and real biological data. Our algorithm could identify the 
correct number of clusters efficiently, and detect the relevant functional categories of 
temporal profiles. 
 
Conclusion: 
This procedure combines model-based statistical approaches with machine 
learning technique. It is flexible to implement different clustering methods for 
different purposes and application domains. The use of fusion results of multiple 
methods provides a better performance than a single method. 
 
Method: 
In order to depict temporal gene expression profiles, the Bayesian model-based 
clustering and hidden Markov model (HMM) are applied. The Bayesian method uses 
polynomial functions to describe the changes of expression profiles. The HMM 
characterizes the cyclic profile and the horizontal dependencies of time-course data. 
In the fusion step, SVM is implemented to combine all different clustering results by 
adopting clustering results as its features. 
