and bad-multi-tasking) is the true root cause of poor OTD, not uncertainty (net task time variation). The results support Goldratt’s above claim. Kapoor [8], Jacob, 
Bergland and Cox [9] also pointed out that the real reason for failures in implementing Lean or Six Sigma in project management improvement is that the 
implementation has been carried out inappropriately in two ways: reducing variability locally before stabilizing the system globally and continuing to use local 
efficiency measurements (milestone for each task). Following stabilization, a company can initiate a local improvement program (such as Lean or Six Sigma), 
regulated by TOC BM analysis, to focus on the right places to reduce variation. Pirasteh and Farah [10] conducted an empirical study of improvement using Lean 
and Six Sigma comparing cases that adopted TOC five focusing steps1 [11] approach to focus their improvement efforts and those that did not adopt the TOC 
steps. The results showed that improvements in companies that adopted TOC were 15 times better than those that did not adopt TOC. 
However, successful TOC stories published in the past dealt with companies that always had a good management foundation. Often, these companies had 
even implemented PERT/CPM, PDM, KM, Lean and/or 6 Sigma before adopting the TOC CCPM solutions [1]. As a result, the first concern remains unaddressed. 
This concern is particularly relevant to manufacturers in China, which typically lack a good management foundation and high level of local variations such as 
scope creep, delivery delay from suppliers, technology issues, resources and available time for projects are often inadequate, etc. Reducing variability is the focus 
of their improvement efforts and PDM, KM, Lean and 6 Sigma, etc. are the popular improvement tools. Observation reveals that variation in OTD (global 
variation in project management) among Chinese manufacturers remains a major issue 
Therefore, this paper presents a case study of a Chinese electronic components manufacturer that, like most other Chinese manufacturers, lacked a good 
management foundation. The company has high levels of variations in scope, suppliers, resources available, technology, etc. It has poor operational performance 
such as low OTD and long project lead time. This company applied TOC to improve its performance and adopted the CCPM S&T tree developed by Goldratt 
(2006) following the related logic and implementation steps. The objectives of this case study are to validate that: (1) the logic of the CCPM S&T tree is robust 
                                                      
1 The 5 focusing steps are 1) identify the system’s constraint, 2) decide how to exploit the system’s constraint, 3) subordinate everything else to the above decision, 4) elevate the system’s 
constraint, and 5) if in the previous steps a constraint has been broken, go back to step 1. 
Figure 2 illustrates the CCPM S&T tree developed by Goldratt [3]. The highest level of the tree shown is the step, “Meeting project promises”. Six steps in a 
group at level two form the necessary steps sufficient to achieve the step a level one, including “Reducing bad multi-tasking and WIP”, “Full kitting”, “Critical 
chain planning and buffing”, “Managing execution”, “Migrating client’s disruption” and “Managing sub-contractors or subcontracted sub-projects”. Going down 
to level three, there are four steps in a group, “Freezing”, “Accelerate project completion”, “Defrost mechanism” and “Releasing of new projects”, that form the 
necessary steps to achieve the step “Reducing bad multi-tasking and WIP”. The three steps, “Preparations according to priorities”, “Defining preparations” and 
“Worried clients” are necessary for the group to achieve the step “Full Kitting”. The other three steps, “Building good project plans/PERTs”, “Building critical 
chain plans” and “Staggering project portfolio,” are necessary for the group to achieve the step “Critical chain planning and buffing”. Finally, the four steps, 
“Task completion reporting”, “Task managers’ role in managing execution”, “Project managers’ role in managing execution” and “Top management role in 
managing execution” are necessary for the group to achieve the step “Managing execution.”  
Figure 3a illustrates the strategic and tactic entities of level 1 and level 2. The strategy entity (what for) of level one is “The Company has very high due-date 
performance without compromising on the content or on the budget”, and its corresponding tactic entity (how) is “The Company implements Critical Chain 
Project Management (CCPM) culture and procedures”. To attain the level one objective, “The Company has very high due-date performance without 
compromising on the content or on the budget”, five necessary strategy entities of level two are necessary, including ” Flow is the number one consideration (the 
target is not how many projects the Company succeeds to start working on, rather it is how many projects are completed)”, “A project is rarely launched before its 
preparations are complete”, etc. Each "Strategy entity" of level two must have a corresponding “Tactic entity” which details the tactic entity, ”The Company 
implements Critical Chain Project Management (CCPM) culture and procedures” of level one. This includes, “The Company properly controls the number of 
projects that are open at any given point in time”, “The company uses the window of reduced load on resources that do the preparations to ensure that “full kit” 
practice will become the norm”, etc.  
Click the button (shown on the bottom in Figure 3a) of steps 2.1, 2.2, 2.3 and 2.4 will go down their lower level. Figure 3b illustrates the strategy and tactic 
3. Most projects were planned and executed by one engineer, forcing engineers to function more like coordinators than project managers. No support 
was provided from other resources, and the division did not operate as a project team. 
4. Engineers received different orders from every level of management, and different managers asked for different reports from their respective 
milestones. 
5. The company’s priority mechanism was based on “First in first out” as judged by engineers. However, the engineers had no control over supporting 
resources, and had to rely on managers to be their mediators. As a result, there was no way to reveal real project urgency.  
These factors resulted in poor time to market performance, a long lead time for each project, and high expediting costs. The problems faced by the case company 
are common to many other electronic components companies in China 
 
4. TOC CCPM S&T tree implementation  
The company first knowing the TOC is their top management attended the Viable Vision event conducted by Goldratt in May 2007 in China. After further 
evaluation of TOC CCPM, they chose to implement TOC CCPM, deciding that improving on time delivery for each new product development project should be 
the first priority. They contracted with an outside TOC CCPM expert (TOCE) certified by the TOCICO (TOC International Certification Organization). The 
implementation covered the following three phases: 
Phase one: TOC knowledge transfer 
The objective of this knowledge transfer phase was for the management team to gain sufficient knowledge and understanding of the relevant TOC generic 
concepts and CCPM solutions applicable to the company’s environment. A company-wide training commenced in May 2008 for the transfer of the TOC body of 
knowledge. The entire management team, from the board of directors to project managers, resources managers, task managers and engineers participated in the 
training. Experience has shown that people may learn but not understand; they may understand but not know how to apply the theory. Hence, examples, practices, 
role playing, quizzes and tests were crucial in this knowledge transfer phase. Games [7], computer simulation [13] and TOC Insight project management [4] were 
During the review of the CCPM S&T tree, the TOCE asked management to raise reservations. Reservations are either negative branches (side effects) or 
obstacles that prevent achievement of some of the S&T tree entities. In preparation for the review, the participants were taught how to verbalize their reservations 
correctly prior to the review process. The management team then split into smaller working groups. Each group worked on verbalizing the reservations raised by 
its members. The TOCE worked with each group to come up with the appropriate verbalized reservations, which were then presented to the whole management 
team. The management team then effectively dealt with the reservations with the help of the TOCE. 
Broadly speaking, there are three types of reservations: a lack of knowledge; misunderstanding of or disagreement with an S&T entity; or a lack of 
commitment. Through the review of the S&T tree process described above, sufficient knowledge should have been conveyed to the participants and any 
misunderstanding of, or disagreement with, an S&T entity dealt with. An in depth understanding of the S&T tree and having addressed the potential obstacles and 
negative side effects eliminates reservations for its adoption and helps instill commitment for its implementation. Strong support by top management further helps 
secure commitment at lower levels. 
The S&T tree sets out the minimum mandatory changes required in a system to ensure the company is solidly on a process of ongoing improvement. The 
S&T tree provides a clear road map of all the changes that can be easily understood. The S&T tree also fully explains the logic for making the changes. Fully 
explaining the logic makes the S&T tree an effective communication tool across hierarchy, across functions and over time. This helps achieve consensus and 
secure support and commitment. 
The TOCE made sure the assumptions were reviewed by the participants and were accepted by them as fact of life. Management agreed that the resulting 
strategy/tactics were appropriate. 
Phase three: Implementation 
Having reached consensus and obtained commitment on the CCPM S&T tree, the TOCE explained the implementation sequence. An implementation team 
Defining preparations: The Full-Kit manager officially defined those activities which should be titled preparations. The company then took the actions to 
ensure that resources (those conducting the preparations and project managers of frozen and unreleased projects) are guided and monitored to work only on the 
preparation activities as defined. Any project did not allowed to be released into the system if the project does not have all its pieces in place. Same rule for tasks 
within the system, and this is managed by the task managers.  
Entities 2.1 and 2.2 took about two months and the case company moved on to implementing entity 2.3 “Critical chain planning and buffering”.  
Building good project plans/PERTs: Several project network building workshops were conducted to create project network templates. All relevant projects 
(projects which are not to be soon completed and the projects to be released in the near horizon) were considered in order to determine the generic projects. The 
implementation team constructed the templates per each generic project making sure that the resulting PERT will be properly detailed. Optimal number of 
resources per task and per project was determined. Per each relevant project its project manager worked with the key people that constructed the template to 
properly modify the template to fit the specific project. Four templates were developed. The objectives, deliverables and successful criteria of each template were 
discussed and defined clearly, common goals were shared by the developed team.  
Building critical chain plans: An advanced CCPM workshop was conducted for implementation team. For each relevant project the project-planning-team 
continued by following the Critical-Chain process to turn the initial PERT into a Critical-Chain-PERT. The templates were finalized.  
Staggering projects portfolio: The project-planning-team chose the final test as the drum (heavy loaded resources) to work as a staggering mechanism to 
plan project start date and completion date. Actions were taken to ensure that projects are released according to the plan (legs having different lead-times are 
released at correspondingly different dates).Actions are taken to ensure that due dates for new projects are committed only according to the staggering 
mechanism (or top management’s decision to postpone a specific existing project).  
Entity 2.3 “Critical chain planning and buffering” took about two months too. After entity 2.3 completed, entity 2.4 “Managing execution” was launched as 
disruption” and step 2.6 ”Managing sub-contractors or sub-contracted sub-project” were also developed. The time to implement all these entities totaled about 
eight months and the results are significant (see Section 5). 
The case company managed the implementation as follows: (1) Monitor the work of all the projects. (2) Daily buffer meetings with implementation teams to 
monitor progress and ensure they were on track. (3) Weekly meetings with top management to keep them updated and secure their continued commitment. (4) 
Management team being involved in all the major decisions in the implementation process. (5) Escalating issues to top management whenever the issues might 
risk the successful completion of implementation. 
 
5. Results 
After four months of implementing “Reducing bad multi-tasking and WIP” and “Full kitting”, unfrozen projects flew smoothly, several potential delay 
projects were identified, recovered and completed on time. Partial of the resources from the frozen projects were used to prudently strengthen the open projects 
and partial of them were instructed to complete the preparation steps first for the running - not frozen – projects, then to complete the preparations for frozen 
projects. More projects completed on time and early. The rapid and significant improvements created the momentum (confidence and interest) for the case 
company management team to charge on with other improvement initiatives. They then implemented “Critical chain planning and buffering” and “Managing 
execution”. Over the eight months period, the following results were achieved:  
1. Project due date performance increased from <30% to >85% 
2. Increased advantage of time to market, in addition to technology 
3. Reduced project lead time by approximately 30~50% 
4. On-time risk management and effective decision-making 
5. Better controls of resource loading and improved R&D schedule and cost evaluation 
6. Lessons learned  
Although CCPM was the right solution for case company, without the following key success factors, the case company could not have achieved the results in 
the short period of about eight months. 
Top management support and commitment 
For the case company, implementing CCPM involved multi-paradigm shifts and company-wide changes. Securing strong support and commitment from top 
management was imperative as the company made one change after another. The commitment of top management was not just lip service, but was real. (1) 
Management committed a whole month of time and fully participated in the TOC knowledge transfer and CCPM S&T verification process. The implementation 
of the program involved changes in working habits and culture. Even with the robust logic of the S&T tree, there can be occasional hesitations and reversions to 
old practices. In these situations, without a thorough understanding of the TOC knowledge and CCPM S&T tree, it would be impossible for top management to 
support the program and require subordinates to make the necessary changes. (2) Management also committed to staying focused on implementing the CCPM 
S&T tree. This means the general manager and his top management team decided to stop all other initiatives requiring management attention that were not part of 
the CCPM S&T tree. Given the multi-paradigm shifts and company-wide changes required, the author believes the single most important success factor is the 
support and commitment of top management. 
Stick to the CCPM S&T Tree 
The CCPM S&T tree provides robust and complete implementation steps and leads to desired results if properly followed. Previous TOC implementation 
experiences show that the various CCPM S&T tree must be implemented in a specific order. Although the CCPM S&T tree sets out the order of implementation, 
when reservations arise, the participants often use their personal experience to “modify” the solution to deal with their reservations. This leads to deviations from 
the CCPM S&T tree and improper implementation. An improper implementation inevitably delays achievement of the target results and weakens the commitment 
simple and easy buffer mechanism enhances communication and creates teamwork throughout project environment.     
Sustainability is the key 
Sustainability is the key to achieving significant improvement. Sharing the benefits of improvement with employees through bonuses and pay raises provides 
momentum for sustainability. Holding a daily buffer meeting is an important method for sustaining improvements. During buffer meetings, all participants can 
see the process of change, the obstacles, the negative side effects and the benefits of the improvements. The participants also share with each other what they have 
learned during implementation that reinforces the upward spiral. At case company, the implementation phase took place within three months after the participants 
first learned about TOC. Inevitably, participants’ understanding of the TOC body of knowledge was limited. To sustain improvement efforts under these 
circumstances, it is important that follow-on training by TOC experts be conducted during the first year of implementation to reinforce TOC knowledge and 
ensure that participants do not revert to previous work practices.  
7. Conclusions 
This paper presents a case study of a Taiwan high tech electronic components manufacturing company that, like most other high tech electronic components 
companies, had same problems such as high levels of local variations and poor operational performance such as low OTD and a long project lead time. By 
following the CCPM S&T tree developed by Goldratt, within eight months the company achieved significant improved results. Project lead time was significantly 
reduced and OTD reached over 85 percent. This successful case provides evidence that: (1) the logic of the CCPM S&T tree is robust and effective, and (2) the 
key to achieving high OTD in a multi-project environment is to establish mechanisms to stabilize the system first before adopting continuous improvement 
programs to reduce variability (which is the focus of Lean and 6 Sigma) or assigning more resources. 
 
 
[12] Barnard, A. Harmony TOC S&T Expert System, Goldratt Marketing Groups. http://toc-goldratt.com/store/product.php?productid=111121 2008. 
[13] Goldratt EM. Project Management the TOC Way. NY: The North River Press 1997.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 
 
 
 
 
 
Freezing 
 
Accelerate  
project completion 
 
 
Defrost 
Mechanism 
 
Release of  
new projects 
 
preparations  
according 
to priorities 
 
Defining 
Preparations 
 
Worried clients 
 
Building Good  
project  
Plans/ PERTS 
 
Building  
Critical Chain  
Plans 
 
Staggering  
Project Portfolio 
 
Task Completion 
Reporting 
 
Task Manager’s 
Role in 
managing 
execution 
 
Project Manager’s 
role in managing 
execution 
 
Top Management 
role in managing 
execution 
 
3.11.1 3.11.2 3.11.3 3.11.4 3.12.1 3.12.2 3.12.3 3.13.1 3.13.2 3.13.3 3.14.1 3.14.2 4.14.3 3.14.4 
1 
Meeting Project Promises 
Reduce Bad 
Multi-tasking and WIP  
 
Full Kitting 
 
Critical Chain 
Planning and Buffering  
 
Managing Execution Mitigating Client’s 
disruptions 
 
Managing Sub-Contractors 
or Contracted Sub-Projects 
2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.6 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3b 
 
1 Meeting Project Promises 
Flow is the number one consideration (the target is not how many 
projects the Company succeeds to start working on, rather it is 
how many projects are completed).  
2.1  
Reduce Bad Multi-tasking and WIP  
2.2 
Full Kitting 
2.3 
Critical Chain 
Planning and 
Buffering  
2.4 
 Managing Execution 
 
2.5  
Mitigating Client’s 
disruptions 
 
 
2.6  
Managing  
Sub-Contractors or 
Contracted Sub-Projects 
 
The Company properly controls the number of projects that are 
open at any given point in time 
 
S 
T 
3.11.1  Freezing  
  
The number of open projects is quickly 
reduced to be more inline with better flow 
and throughput.  
 
 
S 
The top manager in◆ -charge 
 of all projects, after  
consulting with his subordinates, determines 
the prioritization of projects and instructs to 
freeze (cease activities on) enough* of the 
lowest priority projects. 
* “Enough” means: responsible  
for at least 25% of the load. 
The proper actions are taken to ensure full ◆
adherence to the freezing decision.  
 
 
 
 
 
T 
3.11.2  Accelerate  project  completion  
 
3.11.3  Defrost Mechanism  
 
3.11.4  Releasing of  new Projects  
 
There is good (sufficient for 
accelerate project completion) 
assignment of resources to projects.  
 
S 
 
 
 
 
 
T 
◆The optimal number of the various 
types of resources needed for each 
open project is determined.  The 
freed resources are used to prudently 
strengthen the open projects. 
◆Proper manning decisions are also 
done for the frozen and to be released 
projects.  
Frozen projects are defrosted at a 
pace that maintains the reduced load  
 
S 
The company chooses integration (or 
part of it) as the VIRTUAL DRUM :  
The number of projects allowed in 
that section is restricted to be, at most, 
75% of the current number.  When a 
project completes this integration a 
frozen project is defrosted. The 
sequence of defrosting projects is 
according to the agreed projects 
prioritization.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
T 
The timing for the release of 
each “leg” of a new project 
takes into account the lead-time 
of the leg.  
 
S 
 
 
 
T 
When the time arrives to release 
new projects, steps 2.2 and 2.3 
should be in place.  At that 
stage, a system to release new 
projects using the CCPM 
concepts is ready.  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3d 
1 Meeting Project Promises 
2.3 Critical Chain Planning and Buffering  
3.13.1  Building Good Project Plans/ PERTS  
 
All projects about to be released have PROPERLY 
detailed PERTs.  
S 
All relevant projects (projects which are not to be soon 
completed and the projects to be released in the near 
horizon) are considered in order  to determine the 
generic projects. 
Proper teams construct the templates per each generic 
project making sure that the resulting PERT will be 
PROPERLY detailed. 
Per each relevant project enough uninterrupted time is 
devoted by the project-planning-team (the key people that 
constructed the template and the key project people), to 
PROPERLY modify the template to fit the specific 
project.   
 
 
 
 
 
T 
3.13.2 Building Critical Chain Plans  
 
3.13.3  Staggering Project Portfolio  
 
The company uses 
Critical-Chain-PERTs that enable 
on-time, faster project completion.  
 
S 
 
 
 
 
 
T 
A CCPM workshop is conducted for 
all people participating in the 
project-planning-teams. 
For each relevant project the 
project-planning-team continues by 
following the Critical-Chain process 
to turn the initial PERT into a 
Critical-Chain-PERT. 
The templates are finalized.  
 
Projects are planned to ensure effective operation.  S 
◆A proper team invests the time 
 needed to emulate the VIRTUAL   
 DRUM and to identify and correct  
 the crucial data errors.  
◆Actions are taken to ensure that  
projects are released according to the plan (legs having 
different lead-times are released at correspondingly 
different dates). 
◆Actions are taken to ensure that due  
dates for new projects are committed ONLY according 
to the STAGGERING mechanism (or top management’s 
decision to postpone a specific existing project).  
 
 
 
 
T 
Flow is the number one consideration (it is not important to finish each task on time, it is 
essential to finish each project on time).  
S 
For all projects proper PERT networks are built (using templates where appropriate).  The time 
estimates are cut in half and projects and feeding buffers are inserted according to CCPM.  The 
projects are properly staggered. 
Proper actions are taken to ensure that resources are aware that their estimates are regarded as just 
estimates - they will no longer be judged according to meeting their time estimates. 
The resulting plan is used to properly release projects into operations. 
The resulting planning ability is used to determine reliable and acceptable due-date commitments for 
new projects.  
 
 
 
T 
2.6  
Managing  
Sub-Contractors 
or Contracted 
Sub-Projects 
 
2.5  
Mitigating Client’s 
disruptions 
 
 
2.4 
Managing Execution 
 
2.2 
Full Kitting 
2.1  
Reduce Bad  
Multi-tasking 
and WIP  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.1 Reduce Bad Multi-Tasking & WIP 
 
Necessary assumptions 
 
u When too many projects are executed simultaneously many resources will find themselves under pressure to 
work on more than one task - bad multi-tasking is unavoidable. 
u Prolific bad multi-tasking significantly prolongs each project’s lead-time. 
 
Strategy 
 
Flow is the number one consideration (the target is not how many projects the Company succeeds to start working 
on, rather it is how many projects are completed). 
 
 
 
Parallel assumptions 
 
u The statement, “the earlier we start each project, the earlier each project will be finished,” is not correct for 
multi-project environments (not only the first elephant but also the last elephant will go through a door much 
faster if they go in procession). 
u Vast experience shows that in multi-project environments, reducing the number of open projects can reduce bad 
multi-tasking without causing starvation of work and therefore significantly reduces the lead time of all projects 
- it increases the flow.   
 
Tactic 
 
The Company properly controls the number of projects that are open at any given point in time  
  
Sufficiency assumption 
 
Adjusting the amount of work is not enough. The company must also ensure that as time passes the proper amount of 
work will be always maintained. 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：李榮貴 計畫編號：99-2221-E-009-115- 
計畫名稱：應用 TOC CCPM 戰略與戰術圖快速改善多專案管理績效--個案研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
