中文摘要 
此計畫著重於改善光通訊系統的光譜效能于次世代的光調變技術中。此計畫將達成以下的
兩點目標：（i）研究強度和相位調變技術（APSK），並且提出一個改善此調變系統的方法。
（ii）研究差分相位調變技術（DPSK），並且釐清色散管理（dispersion management）和自我
相位調變（SPM）對此調變技術系統的影響。這些目標的達成對於改善光通訊傳輸系統的
光譜效能是非常重要的，並且這些調變技術將會運用在次世代的光纖通訊系統中。 
 
Abstract 
This project was focused on the next generation modulation technologies that can improve the 
spectral efficiency of the optical fiber communication system.  Achievements of this project are 
(i) studied amplitude and phase shift keying (APSK) and proposed a method to improve the 
transmission performance of the APSK system, and (ii) studied differential phase shift keying 
(DPSK) and clarified the combined effect of the dispersion management and the self phase 
modulation upon the transmission performance of the DPSK system.  These achievements are 
important to improve the transmission performance of the optical fiber communication system 
with high spectral efficiency, and they will be utilized for the next generation optical fiber 
communication system. 
 
中文關鍵詞 
強度和相位調變（APSK），差分相位調變（DPSK），長距離光纖通訊系統，改善光譜效能 
 
Key Words 
Amplitude and phase shift keying (APSK), Differential phase shift keying (DPSK), 
Long-distance optical fiber communication system, Improved spectral efficiency 
 
format.  The method is called “zero-nulling” method, and the digital “zero” symbol of the ASK 
signal does not carry the PSK information.  The effectiveness of this proposed method was 
confirmed through the simulation.  The results were presented at the technical conference (no.1 
of the list in the appendix) and published in the technical journal (no.2 of the list in the appendix). 
Next, this simulator was used to investigate the transmission performance of the long-haul DPSK 
system.  The main issue of this investigation is the performance difference caused by the 
different dispersion management.  The periodical dispersion management was used for the 
conventional intensity modulation direct detection (IM-DD) system, but it caused performance 
degradation near the zero dispersion wavelength for the DPSK system, and a non-periodic 
dispersion management showed better performance for the DPSK system.  Numerical 
simulations had been conducted to clarify the reason of this issue, and the results showed that the 
self phase modulation (SPM) of the transmission fiber combined with the periodic dispersion 
management caused the performance degradation near the zero dispersion wavelength for the 
DPSK transmission system.  The results were presented at the technical conference (no.2 of the 
list in the appendix) and published in the technical journal (no.1 of the list in the appendix). 
 
4. Experimental studies 
Experimental studies have been conducted to confirm the results obtained through the theoretical 
studies.  As the first step, experiments to confirm the effect of the extinction ratio upon the 
transmission performance of the APSK system was conducted.  A 330km optical fiber 
transmission line comprised the non zero dispersion shifted fiber (NZDSF), the single mode fiber 
(SMF), and the EDFA was constructed in the laboratory, and 10G symbol/s APSK signal was 
transmitted.  The transmission performance was evaluated by the bit-error rate (BER), and the 
power penalty at 10-9 BER was used as a measure of the transmission performance difference.  
The power penalties were evaluated with various extinction ratio, and both the ASK and the PSK 
transmission performances were studied.  As a result, a clear performance trade-off between the 
ASK and the PSK performance caused by the extinction ratio was obtained.  The results were 
presented at the technical conference (no.3 of the list in the appendix). 
Experimental studies will continue to confirm the other results obtained through the theoretical 
studies. 
 
5. Conclusions 
This project was focusing on the study of the spectrally efficient modulation formats and relating 
issues.  Both theoretical and experimental studies had been conducted under this project, and 
major achievements are as follows. 
(1) Transmission performance of the APSK system was theoretically investigated, and the 
method to improve the transmission performance was proposed.  The effectiveness of 
the proposed method was confirmed theoretically. 
(2) Transmission performance of the DPSK system was theoretically investigated, and the 
effect of the dispersion map design upon the transmission performance was confirmed.  
Appendix 
 
List of published papers in technical journals 
1. H. Taga, S.-S. Shu, J.-Y. Wu, and W.-T. Shih, "A Theoretical Study of the Effect of the 
Dispersion Map upon a Long-Haul RZ-DPSK Transmission System," IEEE Photon. Technol. 
Lett., vol.19, no.24, pp.2060-2062, December 2007. (Attachment 1) 
2. H. Taga, J.-Y. Wu, W.-T. Shih, and S.-S. Shu, "Numerical study of the performance 
improvement of the APSK transmission system using zero-nulling method," Optics Express, 
vol.16, no.1, pp.384-389, January 2008. (Attachment 2) 
 
List of presented papers in technical conferences 
1. H. Taga, J.-Y. Wu, W.-T. Shih, and S.-S. Shu "Numerical Study of APSK Format for 
Long-Haul Transmission and Its Performance Improvement by Zero-nulling Method," 12th 
OptoElectronics and Communications Conference and 16th International Conference on 
Integrated Optics and Optical Fiber Communication (OECC/IOOC), paper 12B1-5, 
Yokohama, Japan, July 9-13, 2007. 
2. S.-S. Shu and H. Taga, “A repeater output power dependence of a long-haul RZ-DPSK 
system with respect to dispersion maps,” 2007 Optics and Photonics in Taiwan, Taichung, 
November 30, 2007. 
3. J.-Y. Wu and H. Taga, “Experimental investigation of the effect of the extinction ratio upon 
330km RZ-APSK transmission,” 2007 Optics and Photonics in Taiwan, Taichung, December 
1, 2007. 
 
 
Attachment 2 
 
 
 
