I光能刺激對骨髓間葉幹細胞之生長及分化能力之影響探討
中文摘要
低能量光照(Low level light irradiation, LLLI)可以刺激多種細胞的增生和細胞激素的表
現，其主要定義為光源的能量在 10-3～10-1 W。治療時幾乎不引起局部溫度的增加
(0.5~0.75oC)，因此其所引發的生物效應是光化學反應，而非熱效應。一般應用於深層組織
的治療多使用雷射同調光源，而表層組織的治療則偏向採用發光二極體(Light emitting
diodes, LEDs)非同調光源。因為 LLLI 對生物體治療的分子機轉缺乏系統性的探討，因此光
照治療並未為主流醫學所接受。在 94 年度的計畫，我們證實了紅光 LEDs 光照可提升人類
骨髓間葉幹細胞(Mesenchymal stem cells, MSCs)的增生及 CFU-F 數目。本年度以大鼠 MSCs
為模式，系統性的探討各種參數刺激對其之影響，以不同的功率密度 ( 5、10、15 mW/cm2 )、
能量密度 ( 2、4 J/cm2 )、頻率 (單次、連續)，進行光照刺激。實驗結果發現以單次光照對
MSCs 的增生效果短暫，連續光照的方式對 rbMSCs 會持續促進增生的效果，尤其以功率
密度 15 mW/cm2、能量密度 4 J/cm2 之光照參數表現最佳。而低密度培養的細胞增生效果
又比高密度培養的細胞增生效果來的顯著。在最佳光照參數下，可以提升 CFU-F 數目及鹼
性磷酸酶(Alkaline phosphatase, ALP)的活性。將此參數應用於 rbMSCs 硬骨、脂肪分化的
過程中，發現光照刺激可以促進 rbMSCs 分泌鹼性磷酸酶及降低三酸甘油脂的累積量。本
研究在未來除了將持續探討不同波長光照(近紅光)對 MSCs 增生及分化的影響，並將進一步
探討其可能分子機轉及訊息傳導路徑。經國科會補助，本計畫在本年度的成果，共有 2 篇
EI 論文發表、2 篇 SCI 論文投稿審核中、1 篇國際研討會的論文發表、2 篇國內研討會的
論文發表、及 2 位學生畢業論文。
關鍵字：低能量光照治療、骨髓間葉幹細胞、發光二極體
1報告內容
前言與文獻探討 Introduction and Literature Review
Stem cells are the cells with the capabilities of self-renewal and differentiation into multiple
cell lineages, which hold considerable therapeutic potential. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs)
contribute to the regeneration of mesenchymal tissues and are essential in providing support for
the growth and differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells within the bone marrow
microenvironment in vivo. Several studies have shown that MSCs are able to differentiate into
various cell types, including osteocytes, adipocytes, chondrocytes, myocytes, cardiomyocytes,
endothelial cells, neurons and hepatocytes in vitro [1,2]. Their easy isolation, expansion, and low
immunogeneity make them suitable for stem cell-based therapies. To obtain clinically meaningful
numbers of cells, approaches such as genetic immortalization [3], formulation of growth media,
design of bioreactors, have been used to maintain MSCs’life span and expand enough cells for
clinical treatment.
Low level light irradiation (LLLI) has been shown to enhance proliferation and cytokine
secretion of a number of cells, which may be an alternative for MSCs expansion. The primary
defining factor for LLLI is power with a range of 10-3 to 10-1 W, which results in imperceptible
temperature elevations (0.5~0.75oC) [4]. LLLI provides low energy stimulation to tissues, which
results in increased cellular activity during wound healing, increased proliferation rate of
fibroblasts and keratinocytes, as well as enhancement of growth factor synthesis, collagen
production and angiogenesis [5-7]. Clinical evidence has shown that coherent and non-coherent
light with the same wavelength, intensity, and irradiation time provide the similar photobiological
effect [4].
Recently, some papers have been published on the use of physical stimulation such as LLLI
to enhance the proliferative activity of stem cells. Pyczek et al. had demonstrated an increase in
the mitotic activity of the bone marrow hematopoietic system in rats whose hind legs were
exposed to He-Ne (632.8 nm) and Ga-As (904 nm) lasers [8]. Wang et al. found low energy laser
irradiation (Copper vapor laser 510.6 nm, 5 J/cm2) was effective in vitro expansion of umbilical
cord blood hematopoietic stem cells [9]. Vago et al. used a combination of low level laser
irradiation and coralline matrix to enhance the osteogenic phenotypes of mesenchymal stem cells
[10]. Nascimento and Callera showed that LLLI (685 nm) elevated (1.0 J/cm2) or decreased (2.0
J/cm2) the potential of long-term cryopreserved peripheral blood progenitor cells for the growth
of colony-forming units in vitro [11]. Our previous study has shown that LLLI of 630 nm light
emitting diodes (LEDs) could enhance replicative and colony formation potentials of MSCs
derived from human bone marrow [12]. Tuby et al. demonstrated that LLLI of 804 nm diode laser
(50 mW/cm2, 1 or 3 J/cm2) promoted proliferation of cultured mesenchymal and cardiac stem
cells from rats [13]. Due to the complex interplay of different parameters of LLLI, it is necessary
to perform a systemic approach to examine their effects on MSCs. The purpose of the present
research was to examine the effects on the proliferation of MSCs derived from the rat bone
marrow by red light LLLI (630 nm LEDs) at different irradiance (5, 10, 15 mW/cm2), radiant
3growth to the control group at day 5. However, the proliferation of the group irradiated at the
irradiance intensity of 10 mW/cm2 exhibited the similar growth pattern as the control group. The
results of cells that received multiple dose of irradiation at day 1, 3, and 5 showed significant
increase in cell growth at day 3 and 5 (p<0.01). The proliferation of cells increased 1.17 fold of
the control under the irradiation of 15 mW/cm2 and 4 J/cm2. The data concluded that the
proliferation of MSCs plated at the high density was also promoted by multiple exposures but the
fold of the growth was not as high as those plated at the low density.
Effect of LED Irradiation at Different Time on the Proliferation of Rat MSCs
The results of rat MSCs growth plated at a density of 100 cells/well after single dose of
irradiation at day 1, 5, and 9 are shown in Fig. 3. The group irradiated at day 1 showed significant
increase in cell growth at day 3 but decrease in growth at day 11 and 13. The group irradiated at
day 5 showed significant increase in growth at day 7 but decrease in growth at day 11 and 13. The
group received irradiation at day 9 exhibited similar growth curve as the control group. The data
further demonstrated that the effect on the proliferation of cells by single dose irradiation was
temporary. Multiple stimuli may be necessary for the enhancement of cell growth.
Effect of LED Irradiation on the Colony Forming Potential of Rat MSCs
The number of colony formation unit-fibroblast (CFU-F) is used as an in vitro correlate for
mesenchymal cell potential. Cells from early passages with high colony-forming efficiency also
exhibit the greatest differentiation potential. As shown in Fig. 4, the number of CFU-F was
slightly increased by multiple dose of LLLI at 15 mW/cm2 and 4 J/cm2. However, no significant
difference (p = 0.267) between the irradiated group and the control group was observed after
statistical analysis. The result of CFU-F assay concluded that multiple dose of LLLI at 630 nm
enhanced the proliferative potential of cultured rat MSCs marginally.
Effect of LED Irradiation on ALP activity of Rat MSCs
ALP activity as measured by reduction of p-nitrophenol phosphate is a common marker of
bone cell differentiation. As shown in Fig. 5, MSCs cultured without osteogenic supplements
exhibited increased ALP activity as the culture time period increased. LLLI could further enhance
ALP activity. Significant increase (p< 0.01) in ALP activity was seen in the MSCs with light
irradiation from day 7 to 11. The result of ALP assay suggests that multiple dose of LLLI at 630
nm may enhance the osteogenic potential of cultured rat MSCs.
50
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
Day
C
el
ls
/W
el
l
control
Irradiated at Day 1
Irradiated at Day 5
Irradiated at Day 9
+
**
**
+
*
**
Fig. 3. Growth curves of rat MSCs after exposure to
red-light LEDs at different time. The cells were plated
at a density of 100 cells/well and subjected to single
dose of LLLI at 4 J/cm2 and 15 mW/cm2 at day 1 (○),
5 (□), and 9 (◇). The control group was the cells
without irradiation (■).
Fig. 4. The effect of LEDs irradiation on colony
forming potential of rat MSCs. Colony forming
potential of rat MSCs was assessed by CFU-F assay.
The cells were plated at a density of 200 cells/well and
subjected to LLLI at 4 J/cm2 and 15 mW/cm2 every
other day (□). The control group was the cells without
irradiation (■). Data are presented in mean ± standard
deviation from three independent experiments.
Fig. 5. The effect of LEDs irradiation on ALP
activity of rat MSCs. The cells were grown to 90%
confluence in the complete medium without
osteogenic supplements and subjected to LLLI at 4
J/cm2 and 15 mW/cm2 every other day (□). The
control group was the cells without irradiation (■).
ALP activity of MSCs was assessed by the
colorimetric method. Data are presented in mean
absorbance at 405 nm ± standard deviation from three
independent experiments. Significant increase in
growth of irradiated cells compared to control cells is
indicated by ** (P<0.01).
7計畫成果自評
After one year progress, we have demonstrated that single dose of red-light LLLI (630 nm
light emitting diode) led to short-term increase on the proliferation of MSCs. The growth of
MSCs was enhanced by multiple exposures of LED treatment, and the effect became more
obvious at the low cell density. Maximal increase in cell proliferation was observed with multiple
dose of LLLI at 15 mW/cm2 and 4 J/cm2. The number of CFU-F increased when cells were
illuminated under the optimal parameter. Significant increase (p< 0.01) in ALP activity was seen
in the MSCs received light irradiation. The optimal parameter was at irradiance of 15 mW/cm2,
and radiant exposure of 4 J/cm2. rbMSCs exposed to the same parameter exhibited higher
alkaline phosphatase activity during osteogenesis and less triacylglyceride deposition during
adipogenesis compared with those without irradiation. There are two EI papers published, two
SCI papers submitted, two local conference papers, one international conference paper and two
master theses published via the NSC support for this project.
List of publication:
1. Wen-Tyng Li, Yao-Chu Leu (2007) Influence of Low Level Red-light Irradiation on the
Proliferation of Cultured Rat Bone Marrow Mesenchymal Stem Cells. Lasers Surg. Med.
(SCI, 2007/9/2 submitted).
2. Wen-Tyng Li, Hsin-Wei Tsao, Ying-Ying Chen, Shih-Wei Cheng, Yih-Chih Hsu (2007) A
study on chlorophyll derivatives- mediated photodynamic therapy applied to human
hepatocellular carcinoma cells. Photochem. Photobiol. Sci. (SCI, 2007/3/26 submitted).
3. Wen-Tyng Li, Yao-Chu Leu (2007) Effects of Low Level Red-light Irradiation on the
Proliferation of Mesenchymal Stem Cells Derived from Rat Bone Marrow. IEEE
Engineering in Medicine and Biology Conference 2007 , Lyon, France. (EI)
4. Ko-Hsin Hu, Wen-Tyng Li (2007) Clinical Effects of Far-Infrared Therapy in Patients with
Allergic Rhinitis. IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Conference 2007 , Lyon,
France. (EI)
5. W.-T. Li, H.-J. Hsu, R.-C. Ruaan, Y.-C. Chou, E.-K. Yeong, S.-H. Wang, and J.-H. Hsieh
(2006) The effects of proliferation of human foreskin fibroblasts mediated by light-emitting
diode (LED) irradiated human lymphoma cells (U-937). IFMBE Proceedings. 14: 4744
6. Y.-C. Leu, W.-T. Li (2006) The effects of red-light leds irradiation on the proliferation of
mesenchymal stem cells derived from rat bone marrow. 中華民國九十五年生物醫學工程
科技研討會, 台灣,台北, 10135
7. Y.-T. Chang ,C.-W. Yan, P.-H. Chen, M.-H. Chang, Y.-H. Tsao, W.-T. Li (2006) The effect of
phenol red on the growth of human lymphoma cell U-937 during red light irradiation. 中華
民國九十五年生物醫學工程科技研討會, 台灣,台北, 10124
8. 呂曜竹 (2007) 紅光發光二極體光照對大鼠骨髓間葉幹細胞生長及分化之影響. 中原
大學碩士學位論文.
9. 程士瑋 (2007) 紅光對不朽化人類骨髓間葉幹細胞增生及硬骨分化之影響. 中原大學
碩士學位論文.
表 Y04
到國際場合受檢驗外，能與著名學者專家齊聚一堂，向他們請益與討教，使得個人在醫
學工程領域獲益良多。
筆者參加此次會議之出國經費，由國科會計畫(NSC 95-2221-E-033-008)贊助，除了發
表 1篇口頭報告論文，並擔任「分子及細胞治療(Molecular and cell therapies)」研討會之
座長（邀請函請見附件一）。口頭報告論文題目是「發光二極體照射人類淋巴瘤細胞
U-937對人類包皮纖維母細胞增生之影響（The Effects of Proliferation of Human Foreskin
Fibroblasts Mediated by Light-Emitting Diode (LED) Irradiated Human Lymphoma Cells
(U-937)」（全文詳見附件二），本研究由國科會贊助，主要在評估低能量光照刺激巨噬
細胞狀細胞 U-937之後，其對於皮膚纖維母細胞增生之影響，本研究使用紅光發光二極
體作為光源，在照射 U-937細胞 24小時後，取其上清液加到人類包皮纖維母細胞培養
基中，之後利用 trypan blue染色計數細胞，以 Fast green-Sirius red染色分析膠原蛋白分
泌量，結果顯示 630 nm、15 mW/cm2、 4J/cm2 可以促進 U-937細胞增生並分泌生長因
子 TGF-β1，經過照光之 U-937上清液可以促進纖維母細胞增生 1.1倍，同時其膠原蛋
白/非膠原蛋白比例由 38.46±0.25增加到42.50±0.92 μg/mg，本研究顯示使用發光二極體
在特定參數下光照刺激 U-937細胞可以間接促進纖維母細胞之增生，而發光二極體的照
射未來可以應用在慢性傷口癒合的促進。
二、 與會心得
由於會議主題繁多，且許多主題在同一時間報告，因此僅就個人所參與的主題會議心
得介紹如下：
1. 講座演講- Nanostructured Electrodes : New Bionic Interfaces
本講座演講是由University of Wollongong的Gordon Wallace教授主講，適合電子與生物
介面的材料的製作是一大挑戰，因為此種材料需要同時擁有電性、機械性、生物活性及
生物相容性，而有機導電材料的發現，如：導電高分子、奈米碳管促使相關研究大幅的
進展。微小的電刺激即可改變這些材料的電性、機械性及生物特性，因此，他們極適合
作為仿生材料。例如：在這些材料上接枝上生物分子，可以應用在抗原抗體結合反應的
觀察或者啟動生物活性分子的釋放。將動物神經細胞培養在這些新材料並施以電刺激，
可以促進細胞的增生。應用在肌肉方面，可以感測肌肉的運動。
2. 「微/奈米科技之合成及製作」會議：
此會議首先是韓國漢揚大學Seon Jeong Kim的邀請演講，探討奈米纖維在生物醫學方
面的應用，他們利用electrospin方法將高分子聚合物製備成奈米纖維，由於此纖維具有
生物相容性、延續性結構及高高深寬比，可以應用在生物奈米感測器、人工肌肉、藥物
釋放系統及組織支架等。利用electrospin所形成的奈米纖維通常是自由排列的螺旋狀，
需使其平行排列，方能應用在生物醫學方面。第二篇是本校張恆雄教授的學生黃曉嵐所
表 Y04
三、 考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略)
於本次會議期間，筆者參觀延世大學(Yonsei University) 工學館醫用電子及資訊實驗
室(http://yimit.yonsei.ac.kr)，該實驗室的主持人是李明鎬博士（圖，下排左一），同時也
是韓國 e-Health發展協會的會長，主要的研究為植入式微電極，應用於神經再生及人工
神經；以及其他植入式系統，包括：cardioverter defibrillator、植入式葡萄糖感測器電極、
心血管控制及訊號處理、生物回饋系統。
四、 建議
今年醫學工程國際年會的內容包羅萬象，概括生理系統模擬控制及 physiome，生物資
訊及計算生物學，醫學及生物學之微/奈米技術，醫療保健之資訊科技，生物感測器及
儀器，生物訊號處理及分析，生醫光學，影像診斷物理及系統，核子醫學物理及系統，
放射腫瘤物理學及系統，輻射量測定及輻射保護，粒子放射治療物理學及系統，影像處
理分析及觀測，生物電學及生物磁學，生物力學及復健工程，醫用機器人及電腦輔助手
術，人工器官，藥物釋放及治療系統，生物材料及組織工程，心血管及肺部系統，神經
系統工程，傳統醫藥物理及工程，臨床工程，教育訓練及職業發展等精彩內容。並就未
來醫學工程發展加以預測，足見此研討會內容之引人。筆者非常榮幸與會，除獲取新知
外，也將國內研究的成果介紹給國際與會學者，並建立國際之友誼。
五、 攜回資料名稱及內容
本次會議所攜回之資料有：會議行程(program book)、論文光碟、最新一期Laser in medical
science期刊 1本、其他未來醫學工程國際會議相關資料、延世大學醫用電子及資訊實
驗室簡介。
表 Y04
附件二、口頭報告論文
