  
international competitiveness. Efficiency is usually defined as the ratio of benefits achieved 
(outputs) to resources used (inputs). The factors in port management are multiple and 
complex. This complexity of factors affecting port performance leads to considerable 
difficulty in determining efficiency or the extent to which a port's resources are fully 
employed in attainment of goals. In order to support trade oriented economic development, 
port authorities have increasingly been under pressure to improve port efficiency by ensuring 
that port services are provided on an internationally competitive basis.  
 
Most literatures aim to provide the piecemeal estimation on port performance, while a few 
literatures aim to provide the whole estimation on port performance. The performance 
evaluation for ports can be more comprehensive if efficiency ratios are considered. There 
might be several weight restrictions related to criteria that lead to various versions of the 
interviewer by questionnaire. Data envelopment analysis (DEA) can be used to measure the 
port efficiency of Decision Making Unit (DMU) with multiple outputs and inputs. DEA could 
be used to handle problems with a number of inputs and outputs, and would not be influenced 
by different quantified units, and deals with highly flexible in ordinal data, and applies 
mathematical programming techniques to measure each DMU's efficiency. DEA is a 
nonparametric approach without requiring any assumptions about the functional forms of the 
production function. Three of the DEA models that are most often associated with the DEA 
methodology are the CCR, BCC (Banker et al., 1984) and Additive models. This paper 
incorporates the Technique for Order Preference by Similarity to Ideal Solution (TOPSIS) 
method into DEA, which leads to the DEA/TOPSIS approach. TOPSIS is a rational method 
developed by Hwang and Yoon (1981). The advantages of TOPSIS method are that it is 
relatively simple and yields a highly reliable preference order. The underlying concept is that 
most preferred alternative should not only have shortest distance from ‘ideal’ solution, but 
also longest distance from ‘negative-ideal’ solution. The objective is to find a solution closest 
to the ‘positive ideal solution’ and furthest from the ‘negative ideal solution’. ‘Positive ideal 
solution’ refers to the most effective or least costly value among a set of feasible solutions. 
Conversely, negative ideal solution refers to the least effectiveness and highest costly value 
among a set of feasible solutions.  
 
Available studies have not provided a satisfactory answer to the problem of making 
international comparisons of port efficiency. In certain case, the operation efficiency of 
container ports may be concluded to be effective while the relative efficiency is not available 
based on the conventional DEA approach. This problem can be resolved by the DEA/TOPSIS 
approach. This study aims to contribute to this important task by applying an innovative 
approach to port efficiency ratings covering a selected sample of ports. Relying on 
mathematical programming techniques, the approach, called DEA/TOPSIS, is applied to a 
wide number of different situations where efficiency comparisons are required due to its 
inherent advantages compared with conventional approaches. This study examines efficiency 
with respect to containerized cargoes across ports recognized for their high level performance 
(in terms of throughput) in Asia. In this study, the ports’ efficiency estimation is conducted 
based on the top 20 international container ports in Asia. The data sources for this study cover 
all the related documents of container port performance indicator for the year 2004. The 
innovative two-stage relative efficiency estimation technique, DEA/TOPSIS, is employed to 
evaluate the performance.  
 
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 gives a brief review of related studies. 
Section 3 introduces the proposed DEA/TOPSIS methodology. Section 4 provides the 
empirical results and analysis for the proposed DEA/TOPSIS approach applied to 20 
  
and demonstrated, based on hypothetical port data, how the relative efficiency ratings of ports 
could be obtained. They show how DEA can be useful in assessing the relative effectiveness 
using seven variables from annual reports in twenty ports, in which there are three input 
variables: manpower, capital, cargo uniformity; and four output variables: cargo throughput, 
level of service, users’ satisfaction, ship calls.  Tsai (1994) suggested that DEA model can be 
useful in evaluating and comparing the efficiency of Taiwan international ports from the data 
during three years for ports of Keelung, Taichung, Kaohsiung, Hualien, and Suao, 
respectively, using four input variables (number of cranes, number of berths, ton-day of 
capacity and man-hour), and two output variables (number of containers, ton-day of storage). 
Tongzon (2001) applied the DEA-CCR and DEA-Additive model to evaluate 4 Australian 
and 12 other international container ports for the year 1996. Six inputs were used: number of 
cranes, number of container berths, number of tugs, terminal area, delay time, labor; and two 
outputs were used: cargo throughput, ship working rate. Wang et al. (2003) employed the 
DEA-CCR, DEA-BCC, and Free Disposal Hull (FDH) approaches for analyzing the port 
efficiency. The sample for analysis comprised a total of 57 observations, of either container 
ports or individual terminals within container ports. In his study, five inputs variables (total 
quay length, terminal area, number of gantry cranes, number of yard gantry cranes, number of 
straddle carriers), and one output variable (container throughput) were selected. Tseng (2004) 
investigated the efficiency for 27 international container ports during the years 1999～2002. 
He employed four approaches:  Cobb-Douglas, translog methods, CCR, and BCC. In his work, 
three inputs (number of cranes, length of container berth, number of cargo handling cranes), 
and one output (cargo throughput) were used. Using the same data for the same objective as 
in Tongzon (2001), Lee et al. proposed the improved version of DEA, called recursive DEA 
(RDEA) in 2005. Applications of DEA for evaluation of port efficiency are summarized in 
Table 2. 
 
Tongzon (2001) has demonstrated that DEA provides a viable method of evaluating relative 
port efficiency. The technique offers a significant alternative to classical econometric 
approaches to extracting efficiency information from sample observations, such as the use of 
stochastic frontier production functions. Important features of DEA are that the technique is 
non-parametric and that more than one output measure can be specified. In the case of port 
efficiency, the ability to handle more than one output is particularly appealing because a 
number of different measures of port output are available, depending on which features of 
port operation are being evaluated. In addition to providing relative efficiency rankings, DEA 
also provides results on the sources of input and output inefficiency, as well as the port, which 
were used for the efficiency comparison. The ability to identify the sources of inefficiency 
could be useful to port authority managers in inefficient ports, acting as a guide to focusing 
efforts at improving port performance. 
 
DEA has a multi-criteria flavor: minimize all inputs, and maximize all outputs. There are 
several weight restrictions related to criteria that lead to various versions of the method. Since 
the early work of Charnes, Cooper and Rhodes, there have been a number of extensions to the 
DEA model. In addition to the CCR model, two other DEA models are also often associated 
with the DEA methodology (e.g., Ali et al., 1995): the BCC model and the Additive model. 
The models differ mainly in their envelopment surface orientation and projection path to the 
efficient frontier for an inefficient DMU. The CCR model results in a constant returns to scale, 
piece-wise linear envelopment surface with both input and output orientations for projection 
paths. The BCC model provides a variable returns to scale, piece-wise linear envelopment 
surface, which is similar to the Additive model. The primary aim of DEA is in general to 
  
2002 
Lee et al. 
(2005) 
 
Same data as in 
Tongzon (2001) 
 RDEA 
 
 
Same data as in Tongzon 
(2001) 
 
Same data as in 
Tongzon (2001) 
Source: Authors 
 
3. DEA/TOPSIS METHODOLOGY 
 
DEA is a clear method that does justice to the multiple input multiple output character of 
organizations. An insufficient number of DMUs for the variables being used would tend to 
rate all DMUs 100% efficient simply because of inadequate number degrees of freedom. 
Incorporation of the TOPSIS into the DEA is an ideal way to overcome the deficiency of 
DEA, which yield an innovative approach, called DEA/TOPSIS. The DEA/TOPSIS approach 
is a ‘two-stage’ TOPSIS-coupled DEA approach, which gains the merits from each individual 
ones. Using the hybrid DEA/TOPSIS, the problem of inadequate number degrees of freedom 
can be resolved and the reasonable ranking of efficiency can be obtained. Figure 1 provides 
the framework of hybrid DEA/TOPSIS model for efficiency evaluation and ranking. 
 
 
Figure 1 Framework of hybrid DEA/TOPSIS model for efficiency evaluation and ranking  
 
Detailed DEA/TOPSIS methodology is introduced as follows. The decision matrix for the 
problem can be obtained as  
nntj
nnnn
n
n
l
lll
lll
lll
L ×=
⎥⎥
⎥⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢⎢
⎢⎢
⎣
⎡
= ][
21
22221
11211
L
LLLL
L
L
                                         (1) 
and the efficiency 
Specification of 
input/output measure 
Identify efficiency ratios 
for DMUs via DEA-CCR 
Decision matrix 
Efficiency evaluation and 
ranking 
TOPSIS 
  
∑
=
−− −=
n
j
jiji ZlD
1
2)(                                                     (8) 
The overall performance index for each alternative is computed by 
−+
−
+= ii
i
i
DD
D
C                                                        (9) 
The larger the index value iC , the better the performance of the alternative.  
 
The algorithm for the DEA/TOPSIS approach for port efficiency rating is summarized as 
follows. 
 
Step 1. Selection of the decision making units. Efficiency is usually defined as the ratio of 
benefits achieved (outputs) to resources used (inputs). DEA generalizes this single 
output/input technical efficiency measure to multiple outputs/inputs by constructing 
a relative efficiency measure based on a single ‘virtual’ output and a single virtual 
input. The efficient frontier is then determined by selecting DMUs which are most 
efficient in producing the virtual output from the virtual input. Since DMUs on the 
efficient frontier have an efficiency score equal to 1, inefficient DMUs are measured 
relative to the efficient DMUs. A rule of thumb (Bowlin, 1987) for maintaining an 
adequate number of degrees of freedom when using DEA is to obtain at least two 
decision-making units (DMU) for each input or output measure. An insufficient 
number of DMUs for the variables being used would tend to rate all DMUs 100% 
efficient simply because of an inadequate number degrees of freedom. In this article, 
20 international container ports in Asia for the year 2004 are selected as the decision-
making units. 
Step 2.  Specification of input/output measure. One of the disadvantages of DEA is that in 
most variants, the method only compares organizations with comparable production 
levels. The method therefore stands or falls on the presence or lack of comparable 
organizations. Extremely large organizations are quickly seen as efficient due to the 
fact that there is no other organization present with a similar production level. In 
addition, the more products that are distinguished, the fewer organizations with 
comparable production levels there will be, and this will increase the number of 
efficient organizations.  
Step 3. Selection of the DEA model. There have been a number of extensions to the DEA 
model. In this article, the CCR model is employed on empirical analysis. The DEA-
CCR model is popular since it is very convenient in terms of Scale Efficiency and 
Technical Efficiency. 
Step 4. Utilization of the DEA software tool. DEA is an easily comprehensible method for 
which a large number of standard packages are available. This makes the 
calculations relatively easy to carry out and interpret. A number of different 
commercial software packages are now available, for which some examples of the 
well known packages are LINGO, EXCEL, IDEAS, WARWICK, Frontier Analyst, 
Onfront, Banxia, EMS, DEA-solver, WDEA and DEAP. In addition, a DEA model 
can basically be transformed to a LP problem, and the model can be solved using the 
LP software.  
Step 5. Implementation of the DEA/TOPSIS efficiency evaluation. Through solving the 
constructed DEA model, the DMU efficiency evaluation value can be obtained and 
  
the number of cranes due to a lack of information on this particular variable. The most 
important output in port performance and the advantage of economies of scale is the number 
of containers due to the highly relative of equipment and service efficiency in port; moreover, 
the suitable and easy evaluation of port performance is measured in terms of the number of 
containers moved through a port (throughput) on the assumption that ports are throughput 
maximizes. In this paper, six inputs which are the number of cranes, berths, tugs, berth length, 
terminal area, terminal storage; and one output which is the number of containers is adopted 
to evaluate the efficiency of the international container ports in Asia.  
 
4.4 Analysis of Results 
 
In general, port performance cannot be assessed on the basis of a single value or measure. 
Evaluations are made by comparing indicator values for a given port over time as well as 
across ports for a given time period. The efficiency evaluation with respect to containerized 
cargoes across ports recognized for their high level performance (in terms of throughput) for 
20 Asian international container ports for the year 2004 is examined in this section. The 
innovative two-stage relative efficiency estimation technique, called DEA/TOPSIS, is 
performed and the result is compared to the conventional DEA-CCR approach.  Six inputs 
(number of cranes, berth length, number of berths, number of tugs, terminal area, terminal 
storage), and one output (number of containers) are adopted to evaluate the performance. 
 
Table 3 summarizes the rankings for port efficiency based on DEA/TOPSIS as compared to 
DEA-CCR. In addition, Figure 2 provides plots for the port efficiency versus their rankings 
given by DEA-CCR and DEA/TOPSIS approaches. The input-output efficiency of a decision-
making unit (DMU) is a value between 0 and 1 in the ratio form. According to the DEA-CCR 
model dentition, a DMU is recognized the most efficient when its efficiency ratio equal to 1; 
while a DMU is recognized the least efficient when its efficiency ratio equal to 0. According 
to the result based on the DEA-CCR, there are 10 ports that obtain efficiency ratio 1 among 
the Asia 20 international container ports, including Hong Kong, Singapore, Shanghai, 
Shenzhen, Kaohsiung, Tanjung Pelepas, Ningbo, Guangzhou, Xiamen, Manila. Furthermore, 
the efficiency ratios for ports of Yokoham, Taichung are only 0.174813 and 0.226307, 
respectively.  
 
Table 3 Rankings for port efficiency based on DEA-CCR and DEA/TOPSIS 
DEA-CCR DEA/TOPSIS 
Ports  
Efficiency Ranking Efficiency Ranking 
Singapore 1 1 0.989702 1 
Guangzhou 1 1 0.987611 2 
Shenzhen 1 1 0.979228 3 
Xiamen 1 1 0.969907 4 
Hong Kong 1 1 0.959519 5 
Ningbo 1 1 0.914535 6 
Shanghai 1 1 0.860108 7 
Kaohsiung 1 1 0.848356 8 
Tianjin 0.815386 11 0.794208 9 
Busan 0.596436 12 0.696997 10 
  
 
(b) DEA/TOPSIS 
 
Figure 2 Rankings and their port efficiency resulting from two approaches: (a) DEA-CCR; (b) 
DEA/TOPSIS. 
 
 
Difference on rankings for port efficiency (DMU) between DEA-CCR and DEA/TOPSIS is 
given in Table 4. The last column shows the difference in ranking for each DMU based on the 
results of the DEA-CCR as compared to that of DEA/TOPSIS. It can be seen that those 
DMUs which are determined “efficient” all have the same efficiency (e.g.,1) and ranking 
(e.g.,1) in the DEA-CCR approach. Using the results obtained from the DEA/TOPSIS method, 
they now become distinguishable (or comparable). Furthermore, the inefficient DMUs can 
now be ranked more accurately using the results from the DEA/TOPSIS method. 
 
Table 4 Difference on rankings for port efficiency between DEA-CCR and DEA/TOPSIS 
Ports DEA-CCR(1) DEA/TOPSIS(2) (1)-(2) 
Singapore 1 1 0 
Guangzhou 1 2 -1 
Shenzhen 1 3 -2 
Xiamen 1 4 -3 
Hong Kong 1 5 -4 
Ningbo 1 6 -5 
Shanghai 1 7 -6 
Kaohsiung 1 8 -7 
Tianjin 11 9 2 
Busan 12 10 2 
Tanjung Pelepas 1 11 -10 
Laem Chabang 14 12 2 
Port Klang 16 13 3 
  
Qingdao 1 0.092537 
Tanjung Priok 0.408125 0.085825 
Keelung 0.09435 0.121509 
Manila 1 1 
Taichung 0.409836 0.085318 
Yokohama 0.341102 0.190553 
 
Manila Port and Tanjung Pelepas Port are much less ranked in DEA/TOPSIS in spite of their 
higher rank in DEA-CCR which implies some improvements must be done by their managers. 
For example, the efficiency of Manila Port under “Ningbo” scenario is 0.038092. The peer 
ports of “Ningbo” scenario are Shenzhen, Xiamen, Hong Kong, and Ningbo. Therefore, 
Manila Port may regard these ports as his benchmark of the improvement. The smallest 
efficiency of Tanjung Pelepas Port is 0.09435 under “Keelung” scenario whose peer port is 
Guangzhou Port. Hence Tanjung Pelepas Port may treat Guangzhou Port as the benchmark of 
the improvement. 
 
5. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS 
 
A new procedure based on the modified DEA, called DEA/TOPSIS, is proposed. The 
DEA/TOPSIS, which is composed of DEA and TOPSIS, is a two-stage approach proposed to 
rank DMUs based on the synergy of DEA and TOPSIS. The DEA/TOPSIS approach has been 
successfully applied to the evaluation of operating efficiency for the top 20 Asian 
international container ports. The technique offers a significant alternative to the conventional 
evaluation approach for extracting efficiency information from the samples’ observations. 
This study has demonstrated that DEA/POSIS provides a promising method for evaluating 
relative port efficiency.  
 
The DEA technique is useful in resolving the measurement of port efficiency because the 
calculations are non-parametric, and can handle more than one output without requiring an 
explicit a priori determination of relationships between output and inputs, as is required for 
conventional estimation of efficiency using assumed functions. Although DEA is based on the 
comparison of the efficiency of international container ports, whereby the weights that 
aggregate the various resources and products used are determined by the data and are not 
established arbitrarily in advance.  
 
There is a major problem in applying DEA. DEA/TOPSIS can be a promising and easily 
adaptable approach for obtaining the efficiency ratios. The precise ranking regarding the 
efficiency ratios for some of the ports may not be accessible while this problem can be easily 
resolved by DEA/TOPSIS model, for which an overall order is feasible. In the present study, 
several efficiency ratios of the DMUs have been estimated to be ones (which are determined 
“efficient”), and therefore, not precisely distinguishable (all with ranking “1”). This problem 
can be resolved by incorporating the TOPSIS. Using the results obtained from the 
DEA/TOPSIS method, they can be distinguishable (or comparable). Furthermore, the 
inefficient DMUs can now be ranked more accurately using the results from the 
DEA/TOPSIS method. 
 
The DEA//TOPSIS efficiency ratings can be a useful tool for port managers or regulators, 
highlighting the status of the operating efficiency and providing a deeper insight into port 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                             2007 年 09 月 29
日 
 
報告人姓名 李選士 
 
服務機構 海洋大學 
 
職稱 教授兼研發長
中文：第 7 屆東亞運輸學會年會  
會議正式名稱 
英文：Eastern Asia Society for Transportation Studies 
會 議 時 間       自 2007 年 09 月 23 日至
2007 年 09 月 28 日 
地點（國、州、城市） 
中國大連 
大連海事大學 
