optoelectronic properties of multilayer thin films Ru 
is a high electrical conductivity metal. 
Additionally, its oxide, RuO2, is also a satisfactory 
electrical contact material with a low electrical 
resistivity. In the first year study, we report the 
synthesis and physical properties of novel ZnO/Ru 
transparent conductive multilayer films. ZnO and Ru 
multilayer thin films are deposited using the 
sputtering deposition technique at room temperature. 
The effects of the Ru interlayer thickness and 
annealing temperature on the properties of multilayer 
thin films have been studied. An X-ray diffraction 
study reveals that ZnO layers are highly c-axis-
oriented. The use of an Ru interlayer improves the 
crystalline quality of the subsequently deposited ZnO 
layers. Moreover, the crystalline quality of the 
entire structure is further enhanced through thermal 
annealing in a vacuum. The roughness of the film 
surface increases in correlation with annealing 
temperatures. The electrical resistivity of 
multilayer thin films decreases with an increase in 
the metallic interlayer thickness. The lowest 
resistivity reached ~5.4×10-4 Ω cm for multilayer 
films with a 10-nm-thick Ru interlayer annealed at 
450 ℃.  
  In the second year study, the LaNiO3 (LNO) ultra-
thin layers were grown on the aforementioned 
transparent electrodes. The multilayered dielectric 
capacitors of SrTiO3/LaAlO3 (STO/LAO) and 
(Ba,Sr)TiO3/LaAlO3 (BST/LAO) were fabricated by RF 
sputtering. These multilayered dielectric films 
exhibited better dielectric properties in comparison 
to those without LNO buffering. The tunability of 
STO/LAO multilayered film was enhanced up to 52.1% 
and that for BST/LAO multilayered film reached 59.7% 
by LNO buffering. Moreover, the FOM values at 400 
kV/cm for the STO/LAO and BST/LAO multilayered film 
are high and reached 57.1 and 60.4, respectively, by 
LNO buffering. The LNO buffering is necessary to 
integrate the perovskite dielectric films with 
transparent ZnO-based electrodes.  
 
 
□期中進度報告 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■期末報告 
 
應用於系統面板之環保透明電容設計與製作 
 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC100－2221－E－019－059－MY2 
執行期間：2011 年 08 月 01 日至 2013 年 07 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立臺灣海洋大學 材料工程研究所 
 
計畫主持人：梁元彰 博士 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：鄧顯仕、鍾華、夏浩元、廖文楷 
 
 
 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另含下列出國報告，共 ___ 份： 
□移地研究心得報告 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國  102 年 08 月 21 日
 3
                            Abstract 
 The increasing technological demand for device applications with improved performance 
necessitates the investigation of ZnO thin films with superior electrical and optical quality. The 
preparation of these ZnO/metal/ZnO multilayer thin films is typically conducted at room 
temperature and followed with thermal treatments to obtain the optimal physical properties. 
However, oxidation of the metal intermediate layers is typically inevitable during thermal 
annealing. Oxidation of the ultrathin metal layer seriously deteriorates the optoelectronic 
properties of multilayer thin films Ru is a high electrical conductivity metal. Additionally, its 
oxide, RuO2, is also a satisfactory electrical contact material with a low electrical resistivity. In 
the first year study, we report the synthesis and physical properties of novel ZnO/Ru 
transparent conductive multilayer films. ZnO and Ru multilayer thin films are deposited using 
the sputtering deposition technique at room temperature. The effects of the Ru interlayer 
thickness and annealing temperature on the properties of multilayer thin films have been 
studied. An X-ray diffraction study reveals that ZnO layers are highly c-axis-oriented. The use 
of an Ru interlayer improves the crystalline quality of the subsequently deposited ZnO layers. 
Moreover, the crystalline quality of the entire structure is further enhanced through thermal 
annealing in a vacuum. The roughness of the film surface increases in correlation with 
annealing temperatures. The electrical resistivity of multilayer thin films decreases with an 
increase in the metallic interlayer thickness. The lowest resistivity reached ~5.4×10-4 Ω cm for 
multilayer films with a 10-nm-thick Ru interlayer annealed at 450 ℃.  
  In the second year study, the LaNiO3 (LNO) ultra-thin layers were grown on the 
aforementioned transparent electrodes. The multilayered dielectric capacitors of 
SrTiO3/LaAlO3 (STO/LAO) and (Ba,Sr)TiO3/LaAlO3 (BST/LAO) were fabricated by RF 
sputtering. These multilayered dielectric films exhibited better dielectric properties in 
comparison to those without LNO buffering. The tunability of STO/LAO multilayered film 
was enhanced up to 52.1% and that for BST/LAO multilayered film reached 59.7% by LNO 
buffering. Moreover, the FOM values at 400 kV/cm for the STO/LAO and BST/LAO 
multilayered film are high and reached 57.1 and 60.4, respectively, by LNO buffering. The 
LNO buffering is necessary to integrate the perovskite dielectric films with transparent 
ZnO-based electrodes.  
 
Keywords: Multilayer Films; Perovskites; Electrodes; Growth Mechanism; Dielectric 
properties; Capacitor. 
 5
research field is on the beginning stage. The related applications of materials, device 
manufacture, and the systematical study on the correlation between the structural and physical 
properties of the transparent capacitor are lacking. Based on the aforementioned background, a 
new approach to fabricate functionally enhanced all-transparent capacitors was conducted in the 
second year study. In the second year study we adopt several novel concepts to fabricate the 
transparent capacitors with high efficiency: (1) the use of thin conductive LaNiO3 perovskite 
buffer between the transparent electrode and the dielectric oxide layer to grow highly c-axis 
oriented perovskite dielectric thin films, and (2) the use of the concept of lattice modulation to 
design composite thin-film capacitor to further enhance the properties of the composed thin-film 
layers. The development of this new class of transparent capacitors realizes the fabrication of 
system on panel and contributes to the self-development of key components of transparent 
capacitor in optoelectronic industry. Two types of heterostructures (Ba0.6Sr0.4TiO3/LaAlO3 
(BST/LAO) and SrTiO3/LaAlO3 (STO/LAO)) will be grown on the novel LaNiO3-bufferred 
ZnO/Ru/ZnO/glass substrates to fabricate composite thin-film capacitors in the second year 
study. The transparent capacitors with high efficiency will be developed through optimization of 
the related parameters. The application of this new transparent capacitor in system on panel will 
be further evaluated.  
 
2. Experimental procedures 
  ZnO/Ru/ZnO sandwich structures were sputter deposited on glass (corning 1737) using 
ZnO and Ru targets. The glass substrates were supersonic clean out in acetone, rinsed in alcohol 
and subsequently dried in flowing air gas before deposition. The multilayer film deposition was 
performed with a dual-gun sputtering system with computer control of shutter opening that 
enabled exact control of the thickness of different layers without breaking the chamber vacuum 
to change target materials. During the deposition, the substrate temperature was maintained at 
room temperature and the working pressure is 15 mTorr with a pure Ar atmosphere. The 
thickness of the ZnO layer was fixed at 40 nm and the thickness of Ru was varied from 4 to 10 
nm. A ZnO (40 nm)/Ru (t)/ ZnO (40 nm) multilayer structure was constructed. Some of the 
samples were subsequently annealed by rapid thermal furnace in high vacuum for 1 hour at 
various temperatures (350-650℃) to investigate the effects of thermal annealing on physical 
properties of the multilayer thin films. The LaNiO3 (LNO) buffer layer was subsequently grown 
on the aforementioned multilayered transparent electrodes. The LNO buffer used in this work 
has the thickness of approximately 3 nm. The LNO ultra-thin films are sputtered onto the 
 7
phenomenon has been exhibited by ZnO thin films grown on Ag metal layers [6]. The peak 
positions of the ZnO (002) Bragg reflection (located at 33.7 to 34.01o) are lower than that of the 
standard ZnO referenced from JCPD No. 89-1397(34.38o). Lattice expansion in oxide thin films 
has been attributed to an oxygen vacancy in the lattice [14]. The sputtering growth of oxide thin 
films in oxygen-deficient ambient has been proven to significantly affect the lattice constant of 
oxide thin films [14-15]. The effects of annealing temperatures on the microstructures of 
multilayer thin films were also examined using XRD. The representative XRD patterns for 
multilayer thin films with an Ru interlayer thicknesses of 4 and 10 nm are shown in Figs.1(b) and 
(c). Greater peak intensity of the ZnO Bragg reflections was observed following annealing at 
higher temperatures, revealing an enhanced crystalline quality in ZnO thin films. Additionally, 
the decreased FWHM value of the ZnO Bragg reflections in correlation with the annealing 
temperature may indicate that the grain size of ZnO films increased under higher annealing 
temperatures. Similar temperature-dependent microstructure evolution was observed in the 
ultrathin Ru interlayer. The Bragg reflection of the Ru (002) becomes apparent at high annealing 
temperatures. This agrees with the findings in related literature, namely that the enhancement of 
the quality and grain size of metallic thin films is strongly associated with the thermal process 
temperature [16].  
  The composition modulations in the as-deposited ZnO (40 nm) / Ru (8 nm) / ZnO (40 nm) 
multilayer thin film on the glass were examined with SIMS depth profiles. The results are shown 
in Fig. 2, in which the variation of signals of the respective elements is consistent with the 
designed structure. Figure 3 shows the chemical bonding states of the Zn and O elements in the 
sputtering deposited ZnO thin film on the Ru interlayer. The XPS curve of Zn 2p3/2 was centered 
at ~ 1021.95 eV and this value is close to the reported value of Zn2+ in ZnO film [17]. Moreover, 
Fig. 3 (b) shows the O1s spectrum consists of two well defined curves. This is resulted from the 
non-stoichiometry of oxygen element in ZnO. The higher binding energy component represents 
oxygen ions in oxygen-deficient regions within the matrix of ZnO [10]. The similar result is 
observed in the sputter-deposited semiconductor oxide films prepared in oxygen-deficient 
ambient [14,18].   
 Figure 4 shows the AFM images of the multilayer thin films possessing various Ru 
interlayer thicknesses grown at room temperature. Figure 5 displays the film surface roughness 
evaluated from the AFM images shown in Fig. 4. In this study, the multilayer thin films with a 
4-nm-thick Ru interlayer possessed the greatest root-mean-square (rms) surface roughness (2.38 
nm). Numerous large ZnO crystals formed on the area of interest. This could be because the 
 9
thin films are displayed in Figs. 9(b) and (c). Notably, the optical transmittance in all the 
multilayer film variations was enhanced by annealing at 450 ℃. The average optical 
transmittance of multilayer films with an 8-nm-thick Ru interlayer reached 85.4 % (Fig. 9d). 
However, upon further increasing the annealing temperature to 650 ℃, the optical transmittance 
of multilayer thin films declined. Both the crystalline quality and surface roughness of multilayer 
thin films might affect the optical transmittance. A higher crystalline quality of the film will 
increase the optical transmittance; whereas a rougher film surface will scatter the incident light, 
further decreasing the optical transmittance [21-22]. AFM measurements have shown that higher 
annealing temperatures increase the surface grain size of thin films, further roughening the film 
surface. The enhanced optical transmittance under an annealing temperature of 450 ℃ might be 
associated with a substantial improvement in the crystalline quality of films. Moreover, a rough 
film surface may account for the decreased optical transmittance of multilayer thin films 
annealed at the high temperature of 650 ℃.  
   Figure 10 shows the electrical resistivity dependence of multilayer thin films annealed at 
various temperatures. An obvious decline in resistivity was observed in multilayer films with a 
metallic interlayer thicker than 4 nm. This clearly indicates that the metallic interlayer is 
significant to the electrical conductance of the entire structure. The electrical resistivity of 
multilayer thin films decreases with an increase in the metallic interlayer thickness. The 
resistivity of multilayer thin films further decreases with annealing temperatures of 450 ℃. The 
improved crystallinity in both the ZnO and Ru layers accounts for the observed results. A lower 
resistivity was observed in multilayer films with a 6 to 10-nm-thick Ru interlayer annealed at 
450 ℃. The lowest resistivity reached ~5.4×10-4 Ω cm for multilayer films with a 10-nm-thick 
Ru interlayer annealed at 450 ℃. However, a higher annealing temperature (> 550 ℃) did not 
further improve the electrical conductance of multilayer films. This might be because high 
annealing temperatures induce the formation of ultrathin RuOx between the ZnO/Ru interface. 
RuOx, though a metal-oxide, possesses a higher resistivity than Ru metal does. Additionally, the 
formation of RuOx could roughen the interface of the metal-oxide layers [23]. Both reasons 
might account for the decreased electrical conductance of the entire structure. Deteriorated 
electrical and optical properties due to a roughened interface between the constituent layers have 
been reported in silver/ indium-tin oxide multilayer thin films [24]. Notably, the use of Ag and Al 
metallic interlayers in multilayer structures significantly decreased electrical conductance 
(greater than as-deposited films) when the samples were annealed at high temperatures. This is 
attributed to the oxidation of the metallic layer with ZnO during high temperature annealing [6,8]. 
 11
enhancement in tunability. The tunability of STO/LAO multilayered film was enhanced up to 
52.1% and that for BST/LAO multilayered film reached 59.7% by LNO buffering. These results 
demonstrate that importance of LNO buffering in improving the crystalline quality of the 
subsequent deposited multilayered dielectric films.  
Figure 14 shows the loss tangent of the multilayered films as a function of the applied 
electric fields. The loss tangent of the multilayered films decreased with the applied field. The 
multilayered films with LNO buffering markedly reduced the loss tangent values. The STO/LAO 
and BST/LAO multilayered films have low loss tangent values of approximately only 
0.009–0.015. These values indicate that the multilayered films grown on the LNO buffered 
bottom electrode have relatively low defects in the films.  
The figure of merit (FOM) is defined as tunability/loss tangent and can be used to 
evaluate the performance of the dielectric devices. Figure 15 shows the FOM values of the 
STO/LAO and BST/LAO multilayered films with and without LNO buffering. The FOM at 400 
kV/cm was markedly enhanced from 14.3 to 57.1 for the STO/LAO multilayered film with LNO 
buffering. Moreover, that for the BST/LAO multilayered film was also substantially increased 
from 14.3 to 60.4 with LNO buffering. Relatively high tunability and low loss tangent for the 
dielectric films with LNO buffering contributed to a relatively large FOM values. The increasing 
crystalline quality of the multilayered films with LNO buffering reduced the possible crystal 
defects in the films which prohibited the formation of low dielectric regions in the films. This 
further reduced the loss tangent and increased the dielectric constant of the multilayered films. In 
this work, BST/LAO multilayered film with LNO buffering was observed to have superior 
dielectric performance and is promising for application in transparent capacitor devices.   
 
4. Conclusions 
      ZnO/Ru/ZnO multilayer thin films were sputter-deposited on glass substrates at room 
temperature. The ZnO layers were highly c-axis-oriented in the multilayer structure, and the 
crystalline quality of the films improved through thermal annealing in a vacuum. Both the 
surface roughness and peak-to-valley roughness increased under annealing temperatures. The 
average optical transmittance of multilayer thin films in the visible wavelength region decreases 
with an Ru interlayer thickness greater than 6 nm. The average optical transmittance of 
multilayer thin films increases with annealing temperatures of 450 ℃ because of the enhanced 
crystalline quality of the films. However, further increasing the annealing temperature to 650 ℃ 
decreased the optical transmittance of the film surface. The electrical resistivity of multilayer 
 13
Reference: 
[1] Y.C. Liang, J. Alloys and Compounds, 508 (2010) 158.  
[2] Y. J. Chen, Y. Y. Shih, C. H. Ho, J. H. Du, Y. P. Fu, Ceramics International, 36, (2010) 69. 
[3] A. M. Gheidar, E. A. Soleimani, Mater. Res. Bull. 40 (2005) 1303.  
[4] M. Fahland, P. Karlsson, C. Charton, Thin Solid Films 392 (2001) 334. 
[5] J. Lou, M. Bao, B. J. Ye, H. M. Weng, H. J. Du, Z. B. Zhang, J. Opt. A: Pure Appl. Opt. 11 
(2009) 085501. 
[6] D. R. Sahu, S. Y. Lin, J. L. Huang, Thin Solid Films 516(2008) 4728. 
[7] D.R. Sahu, J. L. Huang, Appl. Surf. Sci. 253 (2006) 915.  
[8] M. F. Al-Kuhaili, M. A. Al-Maghrabi, S. M. A. Durrani and I. A. Bakhtiari, J. Phys. D: Appl. 
Phys. 41 (2008) 215302. 
[9] T. Nabatame, M.Hiratani, M. Kadoshima, Y. Shimamoto, Y. Matsui, Y. Ohji, I. Asano, 
T.Fujiwara, T. Suzuki, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys.39 (2000) L1188. 
[10] Y. C. Liang, M.Y. Tsai, C. L. Huang, C. Y. Hu, C. S. Hwang, Journal of Alloys and 
Compounds 509 (2011) 3559. 
[11] T.K. Lin, S.J. Chang, B.R. Huang, K.T. Lam, Y.S. Sun, M. Fujita, Y. Horikoshi, J. 
Electrochem. Soc. 153 (2006) G677. 
[12] Y. C. Liang, C. C. Liu, C. C. Kuo, Y. C. Liang, J. Crystal Growth 310 (2008) 3741. 
[13] W. T. Lim, C. H. Lee,Thin Solid Films 353 (1999) 12. 
[14] Y. C. Liang, Y. C. Liang, Applied Physics A: Mater. Sci. & Prces. 97 (2009) 249. 
[15] Y. C. Liang, Electrochem. Solid-State Lett. 13 (2010) G91. 
[16] T. Suzuki, Y. Abe, M. Kawamura, K. Sasaki, T. Shouzu, K. Kawamata, Vacuum 66 (2002) 
501. 
[17] L. Zhang, Z. Chen, Y. Tang, Z. Jia, Thin Solid Films 492 (2005) 24. 
[18] Y. C. Liang, H. Y. Lee, CrystEngComm. 12(2010)3172. 
[19] Z. B. Fang, Z. J. Yan, Y. S. Tan, X. Q. Liu, Y. Y. Wang, Appl. Surf. Sci. 241 (2005) 303. 
[20] D. R. Sahu, J. L. Huang, Thin Solid Films 516 (2007) 208. 
[21] Y. C. Liang, Y. C. Liang, Scripta Materialia 61 (2009) 117. 
[22] Y. C. Liang, Electrochemical and Solid-State Letters. 12 (2009) G54. 
[23] J. H. Huang, Y.S. Lai, J. S. Chen, J. Electrochemical Society, 148 (2001) F133. 
[24] A. Klöppel,W. Kriegseis, B.K. Meyer, A. Scharmann, C. Daube, J. Stollenwerk, J. Trube, 
Thin Solid Films 365 (2000) 139. 
[25] Y.C. Liang, H. Y. Lee, Y. C. Liang, H. J. Liu, K. F. Wu, T. B. Wu, J. Electrochemical Society 
153 (2006) J117. 
 [26] Y.C. Liang, H. Y. Lee, H. J. Liu, K. F. Wu, T. B. Wu, C. H. Lee, J. Electrochemical Society 
152 (2005)F129. 
 [27] Y.C. Liang, Y. C. Liang, J. Electrochemical Society 154 (2007) G193. 
 
     
 
 15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. SIMS depth profiling of the ZnO (40 nm)/Ru (8 nm)/ ZnO (40 nm) multilayer film. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. XPS narrow scans of the sputter-deposited ZnO film: (a) Zn 2p spectrum and (b) O 1s 
spectrum.  
 17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. AFM images for the multilayer thin films with an 8 nm-thick Ru interlayer annealed at 
various temperatures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7.  Surface roughness of the multilayer thin films evaluated from the AFM images shown 
in Fig. 6. 
 19
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9. Optical transmittance spectra of the multilayer films with and without thermal annealing: 
(a) without annealing, (b) annealed at 450℃, (c) annealed at 650℃, and (d) average 
optical transmittance of the multilayer thin films in the visible wavelength region.  
 
 
 
 
 21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 12. Dielectric constant as a function of frequency for multilayered films.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 13. Tunability as a function of electric field at 1MHz.  
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2013/08/08
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 應用於系統面板之環保透明電容設計與製作
計畫主持人: 梁元彰
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-019-059-MY2 學門領域: 能源科技
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
