2行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
先進車輛用智慧型微/奈米磁流變液之合成與研製
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-027-093
執行期限：96 年 8 月 1 日至 97 年 7 月 31 日
主持人：張 合 國立台北科技大學機械工程系
Abstract In this article, an arc-submerged nanofluid synthesis system was proposed and
developed for Ag/Co nanocomposite fluid fabrication. In the fabrication process, the positive
electrode uses an Ag rod and the negative electrode a Co rod, and the two electrodes are
processed in the dielectric liquid. Applied electrical energy then produces heating source for
generating an adequate arc with a high temperature which can melt and vaporize the two
electrodes. The vaporized metal is then rapidly quenched by the designed cooling system, thus
nucleating and forming nanocomposite fluid. The nanocomposite fluid generated by the
synthesis system is analyzed by morphological analysis, heat transfer analysis, magnetism
analysis and rheology. The experimental results showed that the nanocomposite fluid is
composed of Co、Ag and Co3O4, and the particle size is less than 51 nm. For the heat transfer
experiment, the experimental temperature was set at ambient temperature of 40℃ and weight
concentration of 0.4％, the average heat transfer coefficient is 0.79 W/m℃. The magnetism test
shows that the saturate magnetization of the produced Ag/Co nanocomposite fluid is 0.906emu/g,
the saturate magnetic strength is 6666.93 Oe, the coercivity is 59.23 Oe and the residual
magnetization is 0.0945 emu/g.
Keyword: Nanocomposite magnetorheological fluids, Magnetization, ceorcivity, Saturate
magnetic strength
1. Introduction
In recent years, application and
technological development of nanocomposite
materials have been growing rapidly
worldwide in engineering industries and
academic fields. The nanocomposite materials
containing regularly alternated
two-dimensional layers with different
chemical composition and physical properties
continue to attract significant attention
because they can be used for fundamental
studies of low-dimensional phenomena and
due to their promising applications [1].
Silver nanoparticles have attracted
particular interest due to their favourable
optical properties, displaying surface plasmon
resonance, non-linear optical limitation , and
the ability to modify the refractive index of
host materials [2]. Besides, Silver particles
have been widely used to form conducting
pastes for integrated circuits and other
electronic devices[3]. The quality of the
pastes mostly depends on the properties of the
metal particles such as monodispersity,
sphericity, dispersion without agglomeration,
purity and crystallinity[4].
Magnetic nanocomposites have many
possible technological applications [5]. Shi et
al. assigned cobalt ferrite nanoparticles which
have been prepared by the combination of
chemical precipitation, mechanical alloying
and subsequent heat treatment. Sodium
chloride was added before milling in order to
avoid agglomeration. TEM measurements
showed that the nanoparticles had a fairly
uniform structure with a mean particle size of
approximately 10 nm. Anisotropic
nanoparticles were obtained after magnetic
annealing at 300 ◦C[6] .The experimental
results showed that the Co powders
4nanocomposite fluid fabricated in our
experiment has pH value of 7.6 and Zeta
potential of 21.21(mV) and rather good
suspension. Among them bigger particles
gather and deposit after two days, and the
remaining smaller particles can suspend for
about 2~3 weeks. After all particles deposit
and vibrate with Ultrasonic vibration to break
the van der waals force between particles,
they display suspension again. The influence
of pH value on particle size of Ag/Co
nanocomposite fluid is shown in Figure 5. As
Figure 5 shows, before the pH value reaches
8.2, when the secondary particle size of
Ag/Co nanocomposite fluid all reaches
nanoscale with good fluid suspension.
However, when pH value is 8.2, it displays a
phenomenon of particle assembling , and the
particle gather at the bottom. When pH value
exceeds 8.2, particle shows great gathering
and deposit ; especially when pH value
reaches 10, the fluid displays almost no
suspension but assembling and deposit .
Figure 6(a) shows the results of SEM analysis
when pH value is 10, and Figure 6(b) shows
the even distribution of particle through SEM
analysis when pH value is 7.5.
3.4 Results of Heat transfer measurement
Table 2 shows the relationship between
weight concentration and heat transfer
coefficient. It can be seen from Table 2 that
when adding Ag/Co nanocomposite fluid and
increasing the temperature, the heat transfer
coefficient also increases accordingly.
With the four variables of nanofluid
concentration between 0.1 and 2%wt as
shown in Figure 7, under the condition of
temperature set at 10 , the thermal℃
conductivity ration of the experimental
sample increases from 0.9% to 4.3%. Under
the condition of temperature set at 20℃, the
thermal conductivity ration of the
experimental sample increases from 1.9% to
12.1%. Under the condition of temperature set
at 30℃, the thermal conductivity ration of the
experimental sample increases from 5.4% to
21.2%.
Under the condition of temperature set at
40℃, the thermal conductivity ration of the
experimental sample increases from 5.6% to
23.6%. Under the same temperature variation,
the higher the experimental sample
concentration, the more obviously its thermal
conductivity ration increases. In other words,
it shows better performance in application at
higher temperature than at lower
temperature.As a whole, the higher the
concentration of added nanoparticle, the more
obviously the thermal conductivity ration
increases. This shows the same tendency as
mentioned in research [14]. Temperature not
only affects the heat transfer coefficient but
also change the thermal conductivity ration of
nanoparticle. The reason is that the rate of
particle movement is changed by temperature,
which in turn changes the probability of
particle impact. The higher the temperature is,
the quicker the particle impact is, and the
higher its thermal conductivity ration, and
vice versa. When the particle is smaller, since
it requires less kinetic energy, its reaction is
more noticeable.
4. Conclusions
From the aforementioned results and
discussions, we achieve the following three
concluding points concerning Ag/Co
nanocomposite fluid fabricated with
ASNSS[13]:
1. In initial electric point (IEP)[12] analysis：
When pH value is set at about 10, the
particle surface begins to carry positive
electricity; when pH value is lower than 8,
it displays better suspension.
2. In thermal conductivity analysis: with
temp-rature set at 40 and weight℃
concentration set at 0.4%, the heat transfer
coefficient is 0.79 W/m , which increases℃
by 23.6%. This suggests that by greatly
improving rate of heat transfer of the fluid
itself, it will benefit its application in the
field of heat transfer.
3. In magnetic property analysis: The
hysteresis curve displays a tendency of
linearity with non-residual magnetization,
and therefore is paramagnetic.
6-2
0
2
-1500 0 1500
Oe
em
u/
g
(b)
Fig.3.（a）Hysteresis curve of the nanocomposite fluid,
(b) The origin of the coordinates to enlarge for
Fig.3(a)
Fig.4. Relationship between pH value and Zeta
potential.
Fig.5. Relationship between pH value and mean
particles size
(a)
100 nm
(b
Fig.6. (a) pH=10, (b) pH=7.8, FE-SEM image
scattered status for Ag/Co nanocomposite
particles.
Fig.7. Relationship between weight concentration
and thermal conductivity ration for different
temperatures.
出席國際學術會議心得報告
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-027-093
計畫名稱 先進車輛用智慧型微/奈米磁流變液之合成與研製
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
陳韋安，陳鈺麟
國立台北科技大學機械工程系
會議時間地點
1. 5 -9 November, 2007 Jeju, Lorea
2. 13-16 July, 2008 Singapore
會議名稱
1. 6th Pacific Rim International Conference on Advanced Materials and
Processing
2. 4th International Conference on Technological Advances of Thin Films &
Surface Coatings
發表論文題目
1. Fabrication of TiO2 Thin Film in Dye Sensitized Solar Cells by
Electrophoresis Method
2. Fabrication of Multilayer TiO2 Thin Films in Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells with
High Conversion Efficiency by Electrophoresis Deposition
3. Integration of CuO Thin Film and Bi2Te3 for Enhancing the Thermoelectric
Conversion Efficiency of Thermoelectric Generator (TEG)
一、參加會議經過
此次由學生陳韋安代表至韓國參加 6th Pacific Rim International Conference on
Advanced Materials and Processing 研討會，學生於 11 月 4 日晚上抵達 Jeju，5 日到會議
地點 International convention center 報到，6 日上午 9 點進開幕式，由 Prof. Young Won
Chang 主持，開幕式中也接觸了幾位大陸的朋友，他們分別來自北京與交大，也有許多
未教授來自香港大學，言談中他們在先進材料及奈米技術領域都做的很有特色，不輸給
台灣的大學。隨後進行 5 場 Plenary Session， 講題分別為為 Deformation Induced Ferrite
Transformation in Microalloyed Steels: Theory and Application, Improvements &
Innovations in the Continuous Casting Process at POSCO, Materials Science at the
Intersections of Engineering, Biology and Medicine, TiNi-Base and Ti-Base Shape Memory
Alloys, Progress in Light Alloy Design and Processing。講題內容十分精彩，與會者討論亦
十分踴躍。6 日下午即開始分組會議研討，大會之報告所做之研討報告共有 19 個 Session
之多，另有 2 個 Poster session。會議研討分成 19 個房間同時舉行，此次大會共有 350
換效率。
此次獲國科會補助到韓國參加 6th Pacific Rim International Conference on Advanced
Materials and Processing，學生內心感到十分高興與感激，雖然只有 4 天之分組演討會，但是
已獲益良多。除了認識幾位國際先進材料與奈米技術之著名專家學者外，對目前國際上與先
進材料及奈米技術之發展方向有更深層之了解。除了對奈米材料在光機電化學上之性質之應
用有更深層之認識外，與會專家所發表對先進材料製備方式與奈米光機電化學材料之特性在
實用化技術之發展上亦有新的認知與可供學習之處。
總之，此次在香港舉行之 6th Pacific Rim International Conference on Advanced Materials
and Processing 不僅可開拓學生人之視野外，更對國際上有關奈米技術之發展方向有一清楚之
認知。相信藉由此次之參與研討會，對於研究團隊在奈米製程領域上之開發與奈米材料性質
之量測技術上將有莫大之助益。
一、參加會議經過
此次由學生陳鈺麟代表至新加坡參加 4th International Conference on Technological
Advances of Thin Films & Surface Coatings 研討會，於 7 月 12 日晚上抵達新加坡，14 日到會
議地點 Administration Building of Singapore Management University (SMU)報到，上午 8 點半進
開幕式，由 Prof. San Zhang 主持，開幕式中也接觸了許多大陸及東南亞的朋友。大會共有 4
場 keynote lectures, 37 場 invited papers, 12 symposia，且總計有 240 oral presentations 及 420
poster presentations。 14 日上午即開始分組會議研討，會議研討分成 6 個廳同時舉行，此
次大會分別來自 20 個國家與 90 個機構或學校之研究人員發表。
二、與會心得
此次本團隊大會發表了 2 篇論文，論文題目分別為 Fabrication of Multilayer TiO2 Thin
Films in Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells with High Conversion Efficiency by Electrophoresis
Deposition 及 Integration of CuO Thin Film and Bi2Te3 for Enhancing the Thermoelectric
Conversion Efficiency of Thermoelectric Generator (TEG)，主要是探討以自行發展之新一
Abstract.The paper deals with the coating of CuO thin film on the surface of a semiconductor
thermoelements (Bi2Te3), and uses the recycled external exhaust heat to generate electric power,
further enhancing the thermoelectric conversion efficiency of thermoelectric generator (TEG)
effectively. By using electrophoresis deposition, the self-prepared CuO nanofluid with the
properties of high suspension stability and good dispersion is deposited on an aluminum foil at a
thickness of 0.1mm. The coated CuO thin film is at a thickness of 3.4 μm, and its compactness is 
good. This film is conjugated with the top and base of a semiconductor thermoelements (Bi2Te3),
and a thermoelectric generator is assembled in parallel connection with the modified thermoelectric
material. Serving as a conduction layer on the surface of Bi2Te3, CuO thin film can effectively
enhance the heat flux of Bi2Te3. When the recycled external exhaustheat is conducted to the CuO
thin film, heat can be more rapidly conducted to thermoelectric material through the film, giving
higher temperature gradient to the two sides of the thermoelectric material. Furthermore, the heat
transfer of the thermoelectric generator can be effectively enhanced. Experimental results shows
that the coating CuO nanofilm on the surface of semiconductor thermoelements can enhance the
overall heat conduction and thermoelectric conversion efficiency of thermoelectric generator by as
high as 30%. Besides, this paper also analyzes the process parameters and the properties of the thin
film coating to acquire a film structure with the best thermoelectric conversion efficiency.
Keywords: Bi2Te3, Thermoelectric Generator, CuO thin film, Thermoelectric Conversion
Efficiency
1. INTRODUCTION
The development of alternative energy has become an imperative issue, such as solar energy,
nuclear energy, wind energy and thermal energy, and so on. These clean energies are the lately
developed alternative energies. Among them, thermoelectric material is a kind of material that
enables the mutual conversion of electric energy and thermal energy [1], and enjoys the advantages
of simple structure, no coolant, no mechanical parts and accessory, and no noise. In the past, the
application of thermoelectric material was limited because of its high cost and low thermoelectric
conversion efficiency. With the development of semiconductor technology, the bottleneck of the
efficiency of thermoelectric material achieves a breakthrough. In the application aspect of
thermoelectric material, the conjugation of Bi2Te3 with P-type semiconductor has formed a material
currently considered possessing better figure of merit under the normal temperature mode.
Therefore, thermoelectric material can be applied to freezer and generator [2-3]. However, the
thermoelectric conversion efficiency of the existing thermoelectric material is still not high. This
is also a main factor having limited the current application of thermoelectric material. Since the
recycling of exhaust heat does not consider the heat input, thermoelectric material is extensively
applied to the recycling of thermal energy [4-8]. This is because when a thermal gradient exists
between the cool side and the hot side, electromotive force is caused continuously, achieving the
the thermal gradient, implying to the difference between the heat side TH and the cold side TL, is
getting greater, the output voltage (V) produced by TEG is higher. To measure the temperature, a
thermocouple leadwire is respectively inserted in the upper and lower sides of the TEG, and
connected with the thermal recorder (Yokogawa-MV100) to record the thermal gradient between
the two sides (i.e. cold side and heat side). The external wire of TEG module is connected with
the voltage-current test device to measure the electric energy output produced during the change of
thermal gradient. The study observes the enhancement effect of thin film coating on the
semiconductor thermoelements, and the influence of thin film thickness on the module. According
to the theoretic formula, the output power P produced by the module is:
  RITTIP LH 2 (2)
Fig. 1. FE-SEM image of CuO nanoparticles produced by the proposed process
Fig.2. Schematic diagram of a thermoelectric module composed of Al foil and semiconductor
thermoelements of n-type semiconductor
Fig. 4. SEM image of the CuO thin: (a) after deposition for 10 minutes; (b) after deposition for 30
minutes.
Fig. 5. SEM image of the structure of thin film accumulated by CuO nanoparticles
Observe the TEG module with the thickness of the CuO thin film being 3.4μm, and compare it
with the TEG module having not performed surface modification by CuO film. Measure
respectively the temperature change on the two sides of TEG module, and the produced output
voltage. As observed from the experimental results, after the heat absorption side at the lower
margin of TEG module has been modification by the CuO thin film, the temperature at the lower
margin rises apparently, revealing that the film structure of CuO nanoparticles has the property of
fast absorption of thermal energy. As to the upper margin of TEG module, with the help of the
CuO thin film, thermal energy is rapidly transferred to the external heat sink, achieving a trend of
faster heat flux. From the record of heat source temperature and the thermal gradient produced by
TEG, it is found that the thermal gradient of the TEG module assembled with CuO thin film is
obviously increased. Fig. 6 shows the relationship between the temperature of semiconductor
thermoelements on the heat side and the thermal gradient of TEG module. Comparing it with the
TEG module also being modification by CuO thin film, the thickness of the thin film influences the
efficiency of heat transfer. When the CuO thin film thickness is smaller than 2μm, the
experimental result shows that the heat transfer phenomenon is not apparent. Thus, thin film
thickness is an essential factor that should be taken into consideration. An excessively thin
thickness not only fails to present good heat flux effect, but also creates poor contacts between the
thin film and part of the Bi2Te3 particles inside TEG module, resulting in the increase of impedance
and the reduction of heat transfer efficiency.
As known from equation (1), when the thermal gradient becomes great, the output voltage of
TEG module will be increased. Figure 7 is the relationship between output voltage under different
heat source temperatures and thermal gradient of TEG module. Since CuO nanoparticles belong to
p-type semiconductor material [16], upon the formation of thin film, its resistance falls with
temperature rise, making it possess the property of negative resistance. Therefore, through the high
conductance property of CuO thin film, heat is enormously transferred to the heat side of
Fig. 7. Output voltage of TEG module under different heat source temperatures and thermal
gradient
Fig. 8. Output power of TEG module under different heat source temperatures and thermal
gradient
4. CONCULSION
This paper investigates the conjugation of the film structure of CuO nanoparticles with
semiconductor thermoelements, and takes the properties of low thermal resistance and low electric
resistance of the film structure of CuO nanoparticles as the media of semiconductor thermoelements
An Investigation of TiO2 Thin Film in Dye Sesitized Solar Cells by
Electrophoresis Method
Ho Chang1,a, Wei An Chen1,b and Mu Jung Kao1,c
1Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Taipei University of Technology, Taipei, Taiwan
af10381@ntut.edu.tw, bkoku0918861453@yahoo.com.tw, cmjkao@ntut.edu.tw
Keywords: electrophoresis, dye sensitized solar cells, electro-optical conversion efficiency
Abstract. This research adopts modified Submerged Arc Nanoparticle Synthesis System to produce
TiO2 nanoparticle which has good roundness and consistence in size. The TiO2 nanoparticle
produced is coated on conductive glass by electrophoresis, and then combined with dyes, electrolyte
(I-/I3-), carbon film and conductive glass to produce dye sensitized solar cells; its electro-optical
conversion efficiency is measured. As the results of experiment show, the average roundness of
those TiO2 nanoparticle is 1.29 nm and their average diameter is 26.5 nm. In the process electric
current, electric voltage, and time to finish the film are controlled to obtain TiO2 film with thickness
of 0.5~1.3 m . To make TiO2 nanofilm by electrophoresis has the advantages of high flatness and
high roughness, and can increase the effects of dye coating. In addition, the dye sensitized solar
cells produced are exposed to Metal Halide Lamp, and their electro-optical conversion efficiency is
measured.
Introduction
The need for energy increases with technological progress. The energy crisis is becoming more
and more obvious day by day. At present the fossil fuel humans depend on will also face the test of
time.In recent years green energy has become rather important. The use of solar energy is the focus
of research. How to transfer the sun’s energy into energy with the highest eficiency to the peak 
efficiency is the goal that everybody pursues. In the 1960s, German Tributsch discovered the
mechanism that dye absorption on semiconductor under certain condition produces electric current,
which became the important foundation of photoelectric chemical cell. Dye-sensitized solar cells
(DSSC) based on semiconductor electrodes have been investigated since 1960 [1-2]. In 1991
and1993, Swiss Professor Mechael Gretzel published papers in Nature[3] and Journal of the
American Chemical Society[4] reporting a brand new solar cell—based on dye sensitized
nanocrystalline titanium dioxide.Because uniformity and quantity of dye adsorption on TiO2layer at
the cathode of dye sensitive solar cell affect the efficiency of electro-optical conversion, therefore
many scholars conduct investigations into how to promote the dye adsorption of TiO2 layer. To
produce TiO2 nano film with Electrophoresis Depostion (EPD) has the advantages of high flatness
and high roughness[5] and can increase the effects of dye coating. However, little literature is
available on the effects of using Electrophoreyic Depostion (EPD) to make TiO2 nanopaticle
deposit/cover on ITO.The purpose of this study is to ascertain the effect of TiO2 nanopartical
produced by SANSS[6] and attached to ITO with Electrophoreyic Depostion (EPD), applied to the
cathode of DSSC. The data contained in this report should enable researchers to develop a new kind
of solar cell with low cost, high efficiency and application [7,8].
Experimental
We use Electrophoreyic Depostion (EPD) to produce the TiO2 layer at the cathode of Dye
sensitized solar cells (DSSC), assemble solar panels, and measure its characteristics. We choose
DSSC produced in other methods as control. The cathode layer of DSSC is produced with EPD, and
the anode is produced with apply method. The equipment and materials prepared for EPD include
figure shows that the deposition situation is good; the a bit unclear picture may be caused by the
fact that using ITO as electric conductive layer has lower electric conductivity when compared with
a silicon chip, so the presented image is a little indistinct. At 30V it shows the best flatness and the
highest electrophoreyic efficiency of making thin film, and when the time for making thin film is
150 minutes, we can produce TiO2 thin film cathode suitable for DSSC; the thickness of
electrophoreyic thin film is shown in Table 1.
Fig.1 2TiO nanoparticles produced by
SNASS under SEM image.
50nm
Fig.3 Commercial 2TiO nanoparticles
under SEM image
50nm
Fig.4 Structure of 2TiO
deposited on ITO conductive
glass under SEM image
Fig.2 XRD Curve of 2TiO electrophoreyic thin
film deposited on ITO conductive glass
Table.1 different film thickness compare
)(VV , )(mAI sc , (%)
Fig.5 I-V Curve of Dye sensitized solar cells
(DSSC)
In the experiment because the electrophoreyic fluid is suspension liquid, there exist incompatible
electrostatic charge between particle and particle, keeping it suspend without assembling. After
EPD process, the electrostatic charge among particle in the electrolyte is destroyed and therefore
make particle connect with each other; when the buoyancy of the dissolvent can no longer carry
them, they will deposit. Therefore, after being used, the electrophoreyic fluid cannot be used
again.The source of light is Metal talide lamp with illumination of 1000W/m 2 , which illuminate the
produced DSSC, and then we analyze the I-V curve of the produced DSSC (Fig.5):Therefore, the
