2 
Content 
 
摘要……………………………………………………………………………………………………………3 
Abstract………………………………………………………………………………………………………...4 
1. Introduction………………………………………………………………………………………….……..5 
2. Modeling of IMPC actuator………………………………………………………………………………..6 
3. Hydration analysis………………………………………………………………………………………….9 
4. Experiments……………………………………………………………………………………..…………11 
5. Results and discussions…………………………………………………………………………………….14 
6. Conclusions………………………………………………………………………………………...………20 
References……………………………………………………………………………………………...………20 
附件一:成果自評表…………………………………………..……………………………………………….22 
附件二:IEEE MEMS 2010 paper……………………………………………………………………………...24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
Integration of electro-active-polymers in MEMS for micro-fluidic  
and active optics applications 
 
Abstract 
 
    This project is an international collaboration with Laboratoire d'Analyse et d'Architecture des Systèmes 
(LAAS), Toulous, France. LAAS is the largest laboratory for developing micro/nanofabrication under Centere 
National de las Recherche Scientifique (CNRS). This project has developed the fabrication process of 
polymer actuators, associated mechanical model, and applications of polymer actuators in biomedical 
microfluidics and micro-optics. The research team from the Taiwan side has been devoting to develop the 
microfabrication and analytical modeling. A drug delivery system based on polymer actuator has been 
designed and fabricated. The research teams from the France side worked on the characterization of the 
fabricated devices and the development of micro-optics based on polymer actuators. 
    Electro-active polymers exhibit interesting properties for MEMS integration. Their low Young modulus 
allows high deformations at low voltages (compared to silicon electrostatic actuators), their low cost makes 
them compatible with mass production markets and their physicochemical properties make them particularly 
well suited to bio and health applications as well as for optical applications. The results of this collaborative 
study evaluated the functional properties and potential applications of such materials in several MEMS 
approaches. Two main objectives have been targeted: integrated fluid actuators in lab on chips and integrated 
transmissive or reflective actuators for active optics. 
    The major technological outcome of this international cooperation is the achievements of microfluidic 
and optical test vehicles for functional analysis of electro-active polymers. Potential applications of these test 
vehicles include lab-on-a-chip, biomedical detections, and optical communications. On the achievement of 
these test vehicles, the fundamental technology of patterning and integrating polymer actuators inside 
microfluidic systems has been developed. Through the development of polymer actuators, major 
electro-active polymers have been fully characterized. The achievement of this international cooperation shall 
generate major impact on the microfluidic systems and emerging applications of polymer actuators. 
    Another aspect of this international cooperation is the knowledge exchange and co-development for 
pursuing research excellence on both sides. Through this cooperation, the visions, facility, and system 
integration capability from LAAS have promoted the research strength for the joint research team. The 
fabrication and analysis experience from the Taiwan side have accelerated the realization of creativity for both 
sides. Domain knowledge in optics, microfluidics, microfabrications and solid mechanics from both sides has 
been exchanged and co-developed. The major results of this international cooperation also include training the 
researchers from both sides for fabrication, analysis, and experiment skills. This training process will promote 
vision and research capability of the team members. 
 
Keywords: International collaboration, polymer actuator, micro-optics, microfluidics, 
microelectromechanical systems 
 
6 
experiment yet. Furthermore, several studies experimented with different “initial” water contents under short 
actuation time. It is insufficient to understand the effects of different water contents on IPMCs thoroughly. In 
this project, a complete experiment is presented to describe the effects of water contents on IPMCs. Utilizing 
water evaporation, we actuated IPMCs in the air under 7200 sec and measured the electrical current and the 
displacement simultaneously. Finally, we concluded the effects of water contents in IPMCs and showed the 
suitable water contents to operate IPMCs. This experimental result will help us to actuate IPMCs in the air 
under long actuation time and further increase the practical application in the air. In light of preceding 
concerns, this project intends to investigate the effects of the water contents on displacement and current of 
IPMCs under long actuation time. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Illustration of IMPC actuation mechanism. (a) The ions in the ion-exchange polymer are randomly 
distributed in the beginning. (b) The applied bias voltage provides electric charges on the parallel electrodes, 
causing the hydrated alkali metal molecules with water molecules to migrate to the cathode. (c) Because the 
unbalanced stress caused by the redistribution of water molecules, the IPMC bends toward the anode side. 
 
2. Modeling of IMPC actuator 
 
In our work, we assembled the two metals as the electrodes and ion-exchange polymer as the composite 
model as shown in Figure 2. It is worth noted that the electric field is assumed to be independent of the x and 
z coordinates.  
cathode 
anode 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
cathode 
anode 
cathode 
anode 
8 
cations, denoted by 0ρ+ > . The effect of cathode blocking due to the accumulation of sodium ions close to 
the cathode is modeled by a thin layer of sodium ions with an area charge density atρ+ . By contrast, the 
depletion region has an area charge density dtρ−  . Besides, the top layer and the bottom layer also called the 
polarized region. The flow of sodium ions with the water molecules to the cathode reduces the potential 
difference across the nonpolarized region, leading to the growth of the polarized layer. The nonpolarized layer 
is treated as a linear ohmic material and is represented schematically as a resistor as shown in Figure 3. Two 
assumptions have been made for the polarized layer in the polymer matrix. First, because the sulfate ions are 
fixed in the polymer backbone, only cations can migrate in the polymer matrix. Second, the magnitude of 
space charge density of anions and cations are the same. When an external bias is applied across the polymer 
matrix, the polarized regions are induced by the cations migration. To determine the electric potential in the 
polarized region, the Poisson’s equation is used. 
Denote the surface potential of the anode by oφ , the electric potential inside the depletion region can be 
obtained by solving the following Poisson’s equation 
 
2
2y
ρφ
ε
−∂ =∂ －  (1) 
where ε  is the dielectric constant of the surrounding solution and the subscripts – denotes the negative space 
charge density. The continuity of the electric displacement across the anode surface at 0y =  gives the with 
the following boundary condition 
 
0
s
y
q
y
φ
ε=
∂ = −∂  (2a) 
Also, we enforce the condition that 
 (0) oφ φ=  (2b) 
The solution of Equation (2) subjected to the boundary conditions (2a) and (2b) is then  
 
2( )
2
s
o
qy y yρφ φε ε= − +
－－
 (3) 
Using Equation (3), the electric potential in the depletion region is 
 
2
02
s
d d d
qt tρφ φε ε
−= − − +
 (4) 
The electric potential inside the accumulation region also follows the Poisson’s equation 
 
2
2y
ρφ
ε
+∂ = −∂  (5) 
where the subscripts + denotes the positive space charge density. The continuity of the electric displacement 
across the cathode surface at y h=  gives the following boundary condition 
 
s
y h
q
y
φ
ε=
∂ = −∂  (6a) 
By solving Equation (5) under the condition  
 ( ) hhφ φ=  (6b) 
where hφ  stands for the surface potential of the cathode. The solution of Equation (5) subjected to the 
boundary conditions (6a) and (6b) is   
 
2
2 2( )
2 2
s s
h
h q q h hy y y
ρ ρ ρφ φε ε ε
+ +− −= + + ++－
. (7) 
Using Equation (7), the electric potential in the accumulation region is 
 
2( )
2
s
a a a a h
qh t t tρφ φ φε ε
+= − = − + +
 (8) 
Here we assume that the thicknesses of the depletion region and the accumulation region are the same, i.e., 
10 
 
Figure 4. The hydration model of the IPMC strip. 
Since the water molecules accumulate on the cathode, the tensile stresses are induced in the 
accumulation region. Meanwhile, the compress stresses are induced by the water molecules leaving from the 
depletion region. The thickness of polarized region, length and width of IPMC strip are denoted by d , l  and 
w , respectively. In order to express the strain aε ′  of the accumulation region, we have the relation equation 
by assuming that all of cations combine with the water molecules as following 
 0
a lwH c N
lwH
ε ν +
′ =  (19) 
where 0ν  is the volume of water molecule, c+  is the local concentrations of cations and N  is the number 
of water molecule combined with the cations. The plus means that the volume of water molecules increases in 
the accumulation region. Thus, we rewrite Equation (19) to 
 0a c Nε ν +′ =  (20) 
With the same method, the strain dε ′  of depletion region is given by 
 0d c Nε ν −′ = −  (21) 
where the minus sign means that the volume of water molecules decreases in the depletion region and c−  is 
the local concentrations of anions. We assume that the local concentrations of anions and the local 
concentrations of cation are same, i.e.,  
 c c c+ −= =   (22) 
where c  is the local concentration of ions. It is also assumed that the polymer matrix maintains a balance 
between the volumes of water molecule getting into the accumulation region and leaving from the depletion 
region, the strain is represented by the following equation 
 0cNε ν′ =  (23) 
Then, by using Hooke’s law, we relate the stress σ  to the strain ε ′ as follows 
 Eσ ε ′=  (24) 
where E  is the modulus of elasticity. Hence, the stress can be represented by the following equation 
 0E cNσ ν=  (25) 
Tensile
Compressive 
H2O 
H2O 
V
d
d
2h d− Nonpolarized region  
Polarized region  
Polarized region  
M
12 
 
Figure 5.  A schematic diagram of the complete experimental setup. 
 
               
 
Figure 6.  (a)  Dimensions and configuration of the test piece. The displacement is measured at the location 
of 15 mm from the free-end tip of the specimen. (b)  A photograph of the test piece. 
 
A 30 mm×5 mm water-based IPMC, NafionTM117, with Na+ is used in this work, as illustrated in Figure 
6(a). A photograph of the IPMC strip is shown in Figure 6(b). The IPMC strip is fixed with a clamp at one 
side, and the other side is free. The effective bending length of the IPMC strip is 25 mm. The clamp is used to 
hold the IPMC strip and to transmit the electrical driving potential. To avoid the condition that the tip 
deformation of IPMC strip will exceed to the limitation of laser displacement sensor, the displacement is 
measured at the location of 15 mm from the free-end tip of the specimen. Thus, the complete displacement 
data can be obtained and then used to analyze the effect of water contents on the actuation performance of 
IPMCs. Furthermore, it was discovered that the variations of environment severely affect the water 
evaporation. The water evaporation can be controlled by the door of the weighing chamber for long time. The 
results in Figure 7 indicate that the average amplitude of weight change with opened and closed chamber door 
is about 0.36 mg and 0.08 mg, respectively. Clearly, the change of weight with the opened chamber door is 
more unstable. In this condition, it may increase the error and decrease the accuracy of experimental 
measurement. Thus the electronic balance not only measures the change of weight, but also provides a closed 
environment for measurement when the chamber door is shut. 
Extra care has been taking in designing the electric connections in the experiment. Since the IPMC 
materials are sensitive to water evaporation, the change of the water contents is measured using a 
14 
  
drysaturated
dryresidual
WW
WW
wtw −
−=.%)(                       (32) 
where Wresidual is the residual weight of IPMCs with water inside, Wsaturated is the weight of saturated IPMCs 
immersed in the water at room temperature for 12 hours, and Wdry is the weight of IPMCs dried in oven at 
80oC for 12 hours. In our experiments, the saturated weight of IPMC strip and the dry weight of IPMC strip 
are 65.42 mg and 50 mg, respectively. Thus, the weight of the saturated water is 15.42 mg. Also, this work 
attempts to discuss the effect of different initial water contents on the actuation performance of IPMCs under 
long actuation time. The three different initial water contents of 100%, 70% and 45% are used in our 
experiments, and the corresponding weights of IPMC strip are shown in Table 1. 
 
 
Figure 9.  Measured water contents with time under the electrical potentials of 0 V, 2 V, 2.5 V, and 3 V. 
 
Table 1.  Three different initial water contents in the experiment. 
No. weight of 
IPMCs 
weight of 
water 
water 
contents 
1 65.42 mg 15.42 mg 100% 
2 60.79 mg 10.79 mg 70% 
3 56.90 mg 6.90 mg 45% 
a4  50.00 mg 0 mg 0% 
a  No.4 stands for the weight of IPMCs drying in the oven at 80oC for 12 hours. 
 
 
5. Results and discussions 
 
In our modeling, we focus on the analysis of the charge distribution and the water migration for the 
actuation mechanisms of IPMCs. From the view of the charge distribution, when the electric potential is 
applied, the cations migrate to the cathode and produce the polarized region. From the Equation (18), the 
normalized thickness of the polarized layer can be simply rewritten by using the boundary condition τ →∞ , 
 1τδ α→∞ =  (33) 
Note that α  is a constant. The plot of the normalized thickness of the polarized layer vs. the normalized 
16 
2
0
3 2
18
N
cN ly
h
ν
α=
⋅= ⋅ . In fact, the number of water molecules combined with the cations depends on the water 
contents. Xie and Okada proposed that the number of water molecule combined with the cations N  is called 
the water transference coefficient [19]. They pointed out that water transference coefficients of cations 
decrease with the decrease in water contents of the membrane. When IPMCs are driven in the air, water 
molecules in the polymer evaporate gradually. It causes the decrease of water contents. Hence, the larger 
value of parameter N  reflects that the higher water contents have the larger deflection of IPMCs in our 
modeling. On the contrary, the lower water contents have the smaller deflection of IPMCs. 
It is worth noting that the local concentration of ions and the pumping effect also depend on the water 
contents. In our theoretical analysis, the space charge density of ions ρ  can be represented as follows 
 ( )c z eρ = ⋅ ⋅  (36) 
where c , z , and e  are local concentrations of ions, valences of ions, and elementary charge, respectively. 
Then, the maximum value of the deflection can be obtained by using Equation (33) and is 
 
2
0
max 3
6 Nl Vy
z h
ν ε⋅ ⋅= ⋅  (37) 
According to Equation (36), the local concentration of ions is independent on the maximum deflection of 
IPMCs. However, the local concentration of ions has no effect on the deflection of IPMCs in our theoretical 
analysis. 
The results of displacement amplitude with the different initial water contents under the applied voltages 
of 3 V and 2.5 V are shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13, respectively. In general, it is observed that the 
amplitude of IPMCs increases initially. After the maximum of value, the amplitude of IPMCs decreases 
gradually. The key explanation for the increase of amplitude within a short time at the beginning is that the 
number of movable cations increases with time. Due to the linear relation between the displacement and the 
accumulated charge [11], the amplitude of IPMCs increases with the movable cations. Then, the decrease of 
water molecules results in decreasing pumping effect. It is the reason for the decreasing amplitude at the last 
part of actuation. The amplitudes of IPMCs with the applied voltage of 3 V requires 880 sec, 240 sec and 120 
sec corresponding to the initial water contents of 100%, 70% and 45%, respectively to reach the maximum of 
value as seen in Figure 12. Then, the amplitudes of IPMCs with the applied voltage of 2.5 V requires 560 sec, 
320 sec and 160 sec, respectively corresponding to the initial water contents of 100%, 70% and 45% to reach 
the maximum values, as shown in figure 13. In short, the displacement amplitude of IPMCs always requires 
time to reach the maximum value. These results may be explained by considering the self-diffusion coefficient 
of water. Goswami et al. [16] presented that the values of self-diffusion coefficient of Na+ in the NafionTM117 
membrane as a function of time. The self-diffusion coefficient of Na+ increases with time, and then it reaches 
a constant value within 150 sec. In other words, the sodium ions need 150 sec to reach the larger self-diffusion 
coefficient in the NafionTM117 membrane. The self-diffusion coefficient of Na+ is regarded as the number of 
movable Na+ in our work. When the number of movable Na+ increases, more sodium ions carried by the water 
molecules to move to the cathode. Hence, it is the key reason why the amplitude of IPMCs reaches the 
maximum value for a short time. 
 
18 
 
Figure 15.  The maximum amplitude versus the initial water contents. 
 
The plot of the actuation time versus the initial water content is shown in Figure 14. The actuation time 
stands for the time for the IPMC strip to reach its maximum amplitude. Figure 14 indicates that IPMCs with 
higher initial water contents need longer time to reach the maximum amplitude. A possible explanation for it 
is that the water molecules in the cluster channel impede the mobility of cations. If more water molecules 
exist in the cluster, the obstruction for cations becomes larger. It then makes longer time to reach the 
maximum displacement amplitude. By our experimental results, we proved that the water molecules affect the 
ions migration indeed. 
Nemat-Nasser and Wu [12] indicated that an IPMC strip containing higher water contents yields a 
larger actuation magnitude. In comparison with Nemat-Nasser and Wu’s study, different results regarding 
water contents on the actuation performance of IPMCs are discovered in this work. Figure 15 shows the 
maximum amplitude versus the initial water content. It is found that the largest of the maximum amplitude is 
not under the initial water contents of 100%. Specifically, it is 0.6 mm and 1.4 mm under the initial water 
contents of 70% at the applied voltage of 2.5 V and 3 V, respectively. It is reasonable that IPMCs containing 
higher water contents do not yield absolutely the larger displacement amplitude during the whole actuation 
behavior. The maximum amplitude of IPMCs may occur at the water contents of ~70%, not at the water 
contents of 100%. This is in complete agreement with the experimental results for amplitude of IPMCs at the 
initial water contents of 100% (Figure 16). Besides, these findings are also in accord with previous study [17], 
despite the fact that the previous study used the different measures of approach. These results may be 
attributed to the excessive free water molecules. Because the excessive free water molecules impede 
transportation of cations in the fully hydrated state (initial water contents of 100%) [17], the efficient of the 
pumping effect decreases. Hence, our work modified the findings from the previous study by providing much 
more detailed experiments of the water contents. The largest deformation of IPMCs existed at the water 
contents of ~70% has been proposed. 
 
20 
7. Conclusions 
 
In this project, we have investigated the ion-cluster model in NafionTM117 membrane and the current 
models for analyzing the actuation mechanism of IPMCs. Then, the hydrological-mechanical-electrical 
coupling model for deflection of IPMCs has been successfully developed. The electrostatic analysis and the 
hydration analysis are used to describe the actuation mechanism of IPMCs. The deflection of IPMCs is 
predicted by the thickness of polarized layer and the number of water molecules combined with cations. 
Despite the substantial physical models described for the IPMC mechanisms, a systematic study of physical 
model has not been proposed yet. The fundamental proton and water transport in the NafionTM117 has not 
been fully understood. Hence, the ion-cluster model including the pumping effect needs to be investigated in 
further details. 
In this study, the effects of the water contents on the actuation performance of IPMCs were investigated 
under 7200 seconds actuation time with AC voltage. The IPMCs with different initial water contents are 
actuated by AC voltage of 2 V, 2.5 V and 3 V with 25 mHz square wave. With decreasing water contents, the 
change of the actuation performance of the IPMCs has been measured completely. Based on the ion-cluster 
model, three actuation mechanisms of IPMCs are concluded. First, because the sodium ions in the 
NafionTM117 membrane needs time to reach the larger self-diffusion coefficient, the amplitude of IPMCs 
requires 100~900 seconds to reach the maximum of value under different applied voltages and initial water 
contents. Second, the largest deformation of the IPMCs is obtained under the water contents of ~70% because 
there are no excessive free water molecules to hinder the ion motion. Third, a linear relation between the peak 
value of the current and the water contents has been found. The peak value of the current increased with 
decreasing water contents. These experimental results will help us to actuate IPMCs in air under long 
actuation time and further increase the practical applications in the air. 
References   
[1] R. Pelrine, R. Kornbluh, Q. Pei, and J. Joseph, “High-Speed Electrically Actuated Elastomers with Strain 
Greater than 100%,” Science, 287, pp. 836-839, 2000. 
[2] Y. Bar-Cohen, Electroactive polymer (EAP) actuators as artificial muscles: reality, potential, and 
challenges, SPIE press, 2004. 
[3] S. Guo, T. Fukuda, K. Kosuge, F. Arai, K. Oguro, and M. Negoro, “Micro Catheter System with Active 
Guide Wire,” Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, 1, pp.79-84, 
Nagoya, Japan, 21-27 May 1995. 
[4] W. Yoon, P. Reinhall, and E. Seibel, “Analysis of Electro-Active Polymer Bending: A Component in a Low 
Cost Ultrathin Scanning Endoscope,” Sensors & Actuators A, 133, pp. 506-517, 2007. 
[5] T. T. Nguyen, N. S. Goo, V. K. Nguyen, Y. Yoo, and S. Park, “Design, Fabrication, and Experimental 
Characterization of a Flap Valve IPMC Micropump with a Flexibly Supported Diaphragm,” Sensors and 
Actuators A, 141, pp. 640-648, 2008. 
[6] G. Laurent and D. Piat, “Efficiency of Swimming Microrobots using Ionic Polymer Metal Composite 
Actuators,” Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, 4, pp. 
3914-3919, Seoul, Korea, 21-26 May 2001. 
22 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
   █達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明：本計畫已開發電致動高分子的沈積與形狀定義技術，發展電致動高分子的耦合力學
模型，以懸臂樑結構驗證力學模型，並對高分子致動器進行定量分析，最後開發高分子致動
器應用於微流體的微製程技術，均已達成目標。 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 ■未發表之文稿 ■撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 ■申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：本計畫之成果已發表於 ICAST 2009、IEEE MEMS 2010 國際研討會，ICAST 2009
之文章已轉投 Smart Materials and Structures 期刊，IEEE MEMS 屬微機電領域最頂尖之國
際研討會，此論文擬轉投 Nano Letters。 
 
 
附件一 
24 
Fig.1 The flexible nano-valve array for a drug 
delivery system and the sectional view of the device. 
The arrow indicates the drug-released direction. 
Flexible substrate 
PU reservoirs 
AAO valve
Outlet 
 
 
 
 
 
AN ELECTRO-ACTIVE NANO-VALVE ARRAY FOR REUSABLE DRUG 
DELIVERY SYSTEM 
Kuang-Fu Chang1, Yao-Chuan Tsai1, Wen-Pin Shih1, and Lung-Jieh Yang2 
1Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 
2Department of Mechanical and Electro-Mechanical Engineering, Tamkang University, Taipei County, 
Taiwan 
 
ABSTRACT 
This paper presents a flexible and reusable drug delivery system controlled by a polypyrrole nano-valve array. Electro-active 
polymer working in aqueous medium has short response time and small power consumption. Polypyrrole is one of such 
electro-active polymers. Due to its stability, incorruptibility and micromachining compatibility, polypyrrole plays an important role 
in developing micro/nano-actuators. A novel method for depositing the polypyrrole is also demonstrated. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Recently, polypyrrole has gained increasing attention for developing micro-actuators due to its electrical controllability, 
large strain, high strength, low power consumption, working at room or body temperature, micro fabrication compatibility and 
operation in liquid electrolyte including body fluids. Diverse biomedical or biological applications such as steerable catheter, 
“cell clinic” for single cell studies, and blood vessel connector made of polypyrrole haves been proposed [1-3]. For in vivo 
applications, the biocompatibility of the polypyrrole has been discussed [4]. 
Controllable drug delivery system is of interest for providing in vivo biomedical therapy. The drug delivery chips have 
short response time by destroying a gold layer which seals the medical reservoir [5-7]. The device made by Grayson et al. and 
Kim et al. can be used for long-term therapy [8, 9]. Xu et al. made a reusable drug delivery system also with a polypyrrole 
micro-actuator [10]. The PEG (polyethylene) microvalve is also presented and works by a large volumetric change between its 
solid and liquid phases [11]. These microvalves can be developed for microfludic [12-14] or biological applications. 
Miniaturization has also been addressed for facilitating rapid drug discovery and delivery [15]. The further system 
improvement requires the consideration of chip size, flexibility, reusability, operating temperature and power consumption. 
Hence a conceptual drug delivery system could adopt a flexible substrate and electro-active nano-valves.   
In this work, an electro-active nano-valve is fabricated on a porous material. Specifically, anodic aluminum oxide (AAO) 
which has uniform holes of 100~200 nm diameter is used as the device template. Polypyrrole is deposied on the AAO and 
actuated inside electrolyte. The migration of sodium ions inside the electrolyte makes the polypyrrole deform, causing the 
open/close state of the nano-valve array.  
 
FABRICATION 
The nano-valve drug delivery system is illustrated in Fig. 1. The nano-valve array is integrated with a flexible print 
circuit (FPC). FPC is coated by polyimide as the flexible substrate on which copper interconnects are deposited and patterned. 
Polypyrrole has long lifetime and high stability in liquid. To minimize the chip size, we embed working electrode and counter 
electrode in the FPC. The patterned 2×9 copper via array of 0.7 mm diameter serves as the working electrode. It is fabricated 
on a 500 µm-thick polyimide substrate. The other side of the FPC has regular copper pads which serve as the counter electrode 
for operational convenience. Polyurethane is patterned to form the reservoirs due to its water resistance and softness. The 
capacity of each reservoir is 9 µL.  
The nano-valves are formed by depositing polypyrrole on the AAO film (Whatman International Ltd, Maidstone, 
England). First, the gold layer of 70 nm thickness was deposited on the AAO film by sputtering. The polypyrrole is 
electroplated on the gold layer. During the sputtering process, gold particles might be deposited on the side wall in the AAO 
nanopores. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
附件二:IEEE MEMS 2010 paper 
26 
Fig.6 Light intensity inspection of the nano-valve 
array under microscope. Five minutes period voltage 
is given to the system. The peaks of the intensity 
decrease to a base line because the concentration of 
the dye in the reservoir decreases.  
the electrolyte. Gold or platinum plate serves as the counter electrode, and the AAO film should be connected to the working 
electrode for depositing the polypyrrole. Because of the nano-holes on the AAO film, the rough surface would cause many 
bubbles during the electroplating process. The frangibility of the film also increases the difficulty to protect the plating circuit 
from the electrolyte. The breakage of the AAO film might also decrease the conductivity of the gold layer. All these defects 
reduce the uniform growth of the polypyrrole. We find a novel method to deposit the polypyrrole. Specifically, the AAO film 
needs not to be connected to any electrode. Therefore, its integrity can be easily maintained. 
In the indirect electroplating setup, the AAO film is placed between the working electrode and counter electrode. It is 
covered closely by a shadow mask which has a small hole (Fig.4). The distance from the AAO film to the counter electrode 
and the working electrode are 25 mm and 55 mm, respectively. The shadow mask is made of acrylics with a 500 µm-diameter 
hole at the center. The open area of the hole is much smaller than the area of the counter and working electrodes to assure the 
uniform deposition and high current density of the polypyrrole. The gold layer on the AAO film must face the counter 
electrode since the polypyrrole oxidizes and flows from the counter electrode to the working electrode. The reference 
electrode is placed in the middle of the working and counter electrode. Then the AAO film is placed in the 0.1 M aqueous 
sodium dodecylbenzene sulfonate (NaDBS). The electro-plating bias voltage is applied by a cyclic voltammetry at constant 2 
V for 5 seconds. During this step, the oxidized pyrrole forms polypyrrole at the counter electrode and flow to the working 
electrode in the electrolyte. Simultaneously, polypyrrole is stopped by the gold layer on the AAO film or pass through the slit 
between the AAO film and the acrylic mask or the nano-holes on the AAO film. 
After polypyrrole deposition, AAO film is immersed in 0.1M NaDBS for 20 minutes then cleaned by deionized water. 
Finally, we use laser to shape the film into small pieces and also use silver paste to fix the AAO film on the copper via. The 
fabricated flexible drug delivery system is shown in Fig. 5. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXPERIMENT 
The deformation of the nano-valves is achieved by driving sodium ions into or out of the polypyrrole. To activate the 
polypyrrole, the nano-valves are immersed in a 0.1 M NaDBS and then driven by -1~0 V at 30 mV/s ramping rate for 10 cycles 
using cyclic voltammetry.  
The open/close test of the nano-valves is conducted by monitoring the pink fluorescence (First Chemical Works, Taipei, 
Taiwan) flowing out from the reservoirs while the nano-valves are controlled by applying constant voltages. A green filter is used 
before the objective lens so that the strong contrast between the pink fluorescence and the device can be obtained under microscopy. 
The driving electrode and the nano-valves are all immersed in a 0.1 M NaDBS solution for the testing. The AAO film and the 
copper pad are connected to the working electrode and the counter electrode, respectively. An Ag/AgCl reference electrode (CH 
Instruments, Inc. Austin, USA) is also used. The application of constant 0.3 V on the working electrode drives the ions to leave the 
polypyrrole, causing the polypyrrole to shrink. Spontaneously, the valve is opened. During the open/close test, we apply alternative 
voltage -1 V (open state) and 0.3 V (close state) every 5 minutes.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.5 The fabricated drug delivery system with a 
flexible 2x9 nano-valve array. 
0.3V
-1V
Open state 
Close state 
Open response time 
Close response time 
28 
system," Electrophoresis, vol. 30 no. 14, pp. 2481-2487, 2009. 
[15] D. A. LaVan, D. M. Lynn, and R. Langer, "Moving smaller in drug discovery and delivery," Nature Reviews Drug Discovery, 
vol. 1 no. 1, pp. 77-84, 2002. 
[16]E. Smela, O. Inganas, and I. Lundstrom, "Controlled folding of micrometer-size structures," Science, vol. 268 no. 5218, pp. 
1735-1738, 1995. 
 
一、前言
奈微米工程國際會議 Micro- and Nano- Engineering (MNE2010)於 2010 年 9
月 19 日至 9 月 22 日在義大利熱那亞(Italy, Genoa)舉行，此研討會主要收錄方向
為利用微影或是奈微米製程技術與其應用，奈微米結構、裝置與系統應用在電子
(Electronics)、電力機械(Electromechanics)、環境(Environment)與生物科學(Life
Science)的發展都在這個研討會的討論範疇之內。此研討會是針對奈微米製程技
術的三大奈微米製程研討會之一，另外兩個分別為在美國舉辦的 Electron-, Ion-,
and Photo- Beam Technology and Nanofabrication (EIPBN)與在日本舉辦的
Microprocess and Nanotechnology (MNC)。
今年會議總共收到超過 650 篇的論文投稿摘要，其中 363 篇來自歐洲、240
篇來自亞洲、42 篇來自美洲、6 篇來自大洋洲、1 篇來自歐洲，經過評審的審查
後共收錄了 552 篇的論文，其中分別為 110 篇的口頭論文(oral presentation)與 442
篇的海報論文(poster presentation)。海報論文大致分為四個領域：1.微米與奈米光
微影技術 (Micro- and Nano-Lithography)；2.微米奈米製程與奈米工程 (Micro-
and Nano-Fabrication and Nano-Engineering)；3.生活科技上的微米與奈米製程
(Micro- and Nano-Fabrication for Life0Sciences)；4.微米與奈米系統與其製程
(MEMS and NEMS)。
圖一、MNE2010 研討會所收到的投稿摘要各洲分佈情況。
二、參加會議經過
2010 年 09 月 19 日
本日下午六點半起開放註冊領取相關資料，並同時舉辦歡迎晚會。
2010 年 09 月 20 日
首先是由 Intel 公司的 Robert Chau 進行報告，先介紹在矽晶圓上製作電晶體
(transistor)的概況，例如 strained Si、high-k/metal-gate stack、SiGe/Ge device、
alternative transistor architecture 等，並說明在 COMS 上的製作方式。接著再說明
目前科技的發展進度，利用矽與三五族之間的 joint effort 發展出更高速與低電壓
要原因在於其黏著力是非常弱的，但在此提出金屬線的轉印層改為 Cr2O3，這種
材料在 80oC 就會與金屬脫離而輕鬆的將金屬轉印到塑膠基板上，除此之外，這
篇更提出直接在滾輪上作電子束微影與金屬沉積的製程以避免裂縫的產生。來自
奧地利的 Iris Bergnair 先製作母模(圖三)，再利用奈米壓印技術製作周期性的結
構陣列作為負折射係數的材料，成品可以降低並且可以到達很大的面積。第一天
上午的會議就到中午 12 點 50 分結束。
圖三、奧地利的 Iris Bergnair 的母模，用來奈米壓印技術製作周期性的結構陣列
作為負折射系數的材料。
下午的會議從 2 點 20 分開始，主題是不需要光罩的光微影技術。首先是邀
請演講，第一位為 Mapper Lithography 公司的 Bert Jan Kampherbeek 介紹他們公
司的研究發展，先是介紹他們最新型的電子束微影系統其生產效率高達每小時
100 片。接著是日本 Advantest 公司的 Hideaki Komamiu 介紹它們公司所發展的
50kV 的電子束直寫系統 MCC8，具有 multi column cell(MCC)科技與 character
projection(CP)科技使得有較高的電流密度。德國的 AMO GmbH 公司利用高解析
度的電子束微影系統製作兩種不同尺寸的矽奈米線，一種為針對遷移率測試的長
度較長且多根平行，另一種為較短的矽奈米線，這種製程結合多尺度的製作與
proximity effect correction (PEC)驗證了其製作矽奈米線的可行性。接著下午進行
單數海報論文的發表。
2010 年 09 月 21 日
此日下午會議所報告的主題為微型裝置與系統在生物相關上的應用。下午的
第一場是來自於希臘的國家感測器研究中心（National Centre for Sensor
Research）所發表的是應用於生物與化學的光學感測器，此感測器是製作一個會
吸附生物或化學分子的光導管，隨著想要感測的分子不同，在光導管上覆蓋不同
的高分子材料，此鋪有高分子材料的光導管因吸附的分子多寡導致不同的彎曲程
度，透過光導管傳過去的光子可由探測器檢測多寡，便可得知吸附的分子的多寡。
圖六、此圖為希臘國家感測器研究中心利用 PMMA 當作基材蝕刻出的微流道，
管壁沉積 TiO2 與 ZrO2後便可分離溶液中的磷肽。
第四場的演講來自於希臘國家感測器研究中心的 Evangelos Gogolides，此篇
論文是利用微流道結構以及 TiO2與 ZrO2會吸引磷肽與四基磷肽的特性來分離流
體中的磷肽。此結構將 PMMA 當作基材，利用光微影以及氧氣電漿將基材蝕刻
出 32 道互相平行的微流道，之後在流壁沉積 TiO2 與 ZrO2，便可做出可分離磷肽
的微流道結構。
2010 年 09 月 22 日
此日上午的演講人是來自荷蘭代爾夫特大學微奈米實驗室的 Urs Staufer，此
場演講的主題為在火星上利用原子力顯微鏡掃描火星上的砂粒。在火星上使用原
子力顯微鏡需要克服許多困難，包括要儀器在發射時要能克服強烈的震動、操作
時環境的低溫、以及在下降與著陸時高達 2500g 的加速度，而且此原子力顯微鏡
必須在火星上全自動的操作。
圖七、此為荷蘭代爾夫特大學研究在火星上使用的原子力顯微鏡的照片。
本日下午聽的 ORAL 是 BIONANOSENSORS，第一場是瑞士的 Paul Scherrer
Institut 發表的，他們製作出排列整齊的高深寬比的陣列並在其上電鍍金，這可以
應用在生物感測上，且具有極好的共振響應極高靈敏度。
圖十、成品圖
第三場是台灣大學電子所的利用表面電位來控制生物奈米分子。他們利用在
裝置不同位置施加不同電場來改變物體表面親水性以及疏水性的特性，藉以控制
奈米級的生物分子。電極使用的是 100nm 的 ITO，作為實驗的是加了螢光標記
的牛血清蛋白(Bovine Serium albumin, BSA)，通過提高電壓，疏水性表面會轉為
親水性，而更高的電壓顯示了更多的蛋白附著在上面。這個結果顯示了透過潛在
的特定電極，生物分子可以被連接到指定的特定區域上。
圖十一、對BSA的感測實驗裝置
海報論文部分(Poster)
在 MNE2010 研討會中，海報論文的數量高達 442 篇，其中有相當多創意與
新穎製程的技術。日本的 Yamanashi 大學與 AIST 合作製作出高效能的熱吸收裝
置(heat-sinked saturable absorber device)，利用多孔隙的氧化鋁薄膜(AAO)當作模
具，將奈米碳管(CNT)與高分子樹酯混合填滿 AAO 的孔洞完成製程，此裝置可
以用來吸收超短波長的雷射所散發出的熱能。南韓的 Inje 大學與日本的
Ritsumeikan 大學利用 PDMS 這種材料對於溫度上升會產生變形去進行翻模，利
用簡單的溫度即可以造成尺寸的改變(圖十四)。
圖十四、南韓的 Inje 大學與日本的 Ritsumeikan 大學利用溫度上升對 PDMS 造成
尺寸改變再進行翻模。
丹麥大學的 Tom Larsen 利用材料的熱膨脹係數不同，製作雙層材料的懸臂
梁(SiNx 與 SU-8)，溫度上升時會造成懸臂梁的變形，量測變形量即可以得知溫
度變化。韓國的 Minwoo Nam 提出利用奈米結構有效的提高太陽能的吸收(圖十
五)，在表面上製作半圓形透鏡可以讓照射進來的太陽光大部分被吸收進而減少
其反射，形成所謂的抗反射層(anti-reflective)。
圖十五、韓國的 Minwoo Nam 提出利用奈米結構有效的提高太陽能的吸收。
日本 Osaka 大學的 Tomoki Nishino 利用矽基板先製作高深寬比的柱狀體，再
日本的 Dai Nippon Printing 公司利用矽和化學增幅型光阻劑的相容性與優
點模具取代原先較常使用的石英當作母版，去製作品質較為精緻的溝狀模板。製
作過程先是將石英晶圓上鋪上一層光阻，再將刻有溝槽的矽母版或者是石英母版
堆疊在上方，先照射 UV 光使光阻型成相同溝槽後，利用乾蝕刻方式將石英晶圓
蝕刻出凹槽。經過比較後，可知利用石英當母板會較利用矽當母板所能刻出較小
間隙的凹槽。
圖十八、日本的 Dai Nippon Printing 公司利用矽取代石英當作母版去製作品質較
為精緻的溝狀模板。
瑞士 Paul Scherrer 的 Helmut Schift 利用 OrmoStamp 的製程方法製作出合成
的模具，可承受高達 5m/min 的速度，並且具有相當的耐用程度，可持續壓印長
達 40 公尺。註：OrmoStamp 方法是利用將玻璃基板塗上附著劑，再將 OrmoStamp
的液體滴在模具上，經過 UV 光照後，會使 OrmoStamp 的液滴硬化而成壓印機。
圖十九、OrmoStamp 方法，利用此方法可以製作出壓印機。
日本 Hyogo 大學的 Makoto Okada 利用晶狀高分子的化學側鏈作奈米的壓
印，此製程首先先將模具上黏上溫控黏離膠帶加熱使用之壓印，冷卻後會使得模
型與模具黏得更加牢固，接著加熱便會使黏性消失，因此所得的模型上便不會有
膠帶的殘留。
圖二十二、此圖為日本的東京大學利用聚焦離子束產生化學蒸氣沉積製造超薄的
共震器。
英國南安普敦大學的 Mohammad Adel Ghiass 製作出不會被溫度影響的奈米
矽管感測器。此製程是利用電子束微影後再蝕刻出高表面與體積比的結構，如此
可以增加分子可吸附的面積因此提高此裝置的敏感度。
圖二十三、英國南安普敦大學製作出高表面接觸面積且不會被溫度影響的奈米矽
管感測器
法國 LPN-CNRS 與美國 MIT 進行的以離子液體為基質進行矽加工(ILIS)，
ILIS 一般應用在聚焦離子束來加工材料，主要是使用 FIB 技術及氣體噴射的方
式，使的蝕刻的時間大幅減短。根據結果指出，ILIS 與 EMI 的 BF4 離子液體以
及顯微蛋白原 nanopatterning 兼容。
製造複合膜。
圖二十六、利用不同類型的MWCNTs製作後拍的SEM照片(a) VGCF, (b) VGCF-S,
(c) VGCF-X and, (d) ILJIN
圖二十七、Cu-CNTs 複合膜的製作過程
德國弗勞恩霍夫製造技術與自動化研究所研發出了一種新的方法來製作
CNT/Sol-Gel 複合膜，具有比純碳納米管塗層更顯著的電性能。這可以應用在如
電磁屏蔽，光學器件，高溫穩定複合電極。
圖二十八、經過 500°C 燒結溫度後的 CNT/Sol-Gel 複合膜的 SEM 截面照片。
圖三十一、DWCNTs 的實驗量測裝置
瑞士 PSI 發表了高深寬比的鑽石奈米結構應用在 X 射線顯微鏡合光學上。有
高深寬比的光柵能夠確保聚焦的效率，進而提升顯微鏡的性能。裡面詳細討論了
如何利用 100 keV 的電子將密度高及高深寬比的奈米結構寫入 PMMA，高能量的
電子束能夠穿透到 PMMA 裡面且只會產生很小的電子散射。
圖三十二、2.2m 厚的 FZP，具有 100nm 的最外層區，以及 2.6m 厚的 FZPs 與
最外層區 150-200nm。
義大利的 INRIM 發表了利用金屬蝕刻製作矽奈米線，他由 HF 和 22OH 自催
化蝕刻矽在金屬表面，由金屬的氧化還原電位、金屬層厚度、濃度和蝕刻時間都
可以控制矽奈米線的結構。主要應用在太陽能電池、自體清潔表面、生物感測器。
三、攜回資料名稱與內容
MNE2010 會議投稿論文摘要
圖三十五、MNE2010 口頭報告演講廳會場。
圖三十六、海報發表會場。
97年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：馬劍清 計畫編號：97-2221-E-002-262-MY2 
計畫名稱：電致動高分子整合於微機電於微流體與主動光學之應用 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 2 2 100%  
研討會論文 3 4 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
