crystalline-crystalline (C-C) block copolymers 
composing of two crystallizable blocks.  We 
extensively employed synchrotron SAXS/WAXS to 
systematically investigate the effects of copolymer 
composition (that determines the melt mesophase), 
molecular weight (that determines the segregation 
strength), disparity of melting points and 
crystallization temperature (that determine the 
disparity in crystallization rates of the two 
blocks), and cooling mode (one-stage vs. two-stage 
cooling) on (a) crystallization kinetics, (b) 
crystallization-induced perturbation of melt 
morphology, (c)crystal melting behavior and (d) 
crystal orientation. Through this comprehensive 
study, we have resolved the complex mechanisms 
underlying the competitive crystallization, 
microdomain morphology formation and the relative 
orientation of the crystals confined within the 
microdomains.   
  Our studies have opened up a number of new concepts 
in block copolymer crystallization. The major results 
obtained include: (1)identifying the co-
crystallization condition in the binary blend of two 
C-A diblock copolymers bearing chemically different 
crystalline blocks； (2) critically analyzing the 
kinetic and thermodynamic factors governing the 
crystal orientation in crystalline block copolymers； 
(3) discovering the special interactive 
crystallization kinetics in C-C diblock copolymers； 
(4) identifying the special ＇orthogonal crystal 
orientation＇ in C-C block copolymers.   Most of 
these important findings have been published in the 
prestigious journal in polymer science, including 
Macromolecules and J. Phys. Chem. B.  We have also 
been invited to write a review article on crystal 
orientation in block copolymer by Soft Matter.   
 
英文關鍵詞： crystalline-amorphous block copolymer, blend, 
crystalline-crystalline block copolymer, 
cocrystallization, nanostructure 
 
 II
Overall Abstract 
   
    This project is an extension of our previous works on crystalline block copolymers. We have 
systematically investigated the complex mechanisms associated with the crystallization kinetics, 
crystal orientation and morphological formation in crystalline block copolymer systems, 
including (1) crystalline-amorphous (C-A) diblock copolymers, (2) binary 
crystalline-amorphous block copolymer blends formed by mixing two C-A block copolymers, 
and (3) crystalline-crystalline (C-C) block copolymers composing of two crystallizable blocks.  
We extensively employed synchrotron SAXS/WAXS to systematically investigate the effects of 
copolymer composition (that determines the melt mesophase), molecular weight (that determines 
the segregation strength), disparity of melting points and crystallization temperature (that 
determine the disparity in crystallization rates of the two blocks), and cooling mode (one-stage 
vs. two-stage cooling) on (a) crystallization kinetics, (b) crystallization-induced perturbation of 
melt morphology, (c)crystal melting behavior and (d) crystal orientation. Through this 
comprehensive study, we have resolved the complex mechanisms underlying the competitive 
crystallization, microdomain morphology formation and the relative orientation of the crystals 
confined within the microdomains.   
 
   Our studies have opened up a number of new concepts in block copolymer crystallization. The 
major results obtained include: (1)identifying the co-crystallization condition in the binary blend of 
two C-A diblock copolymers bearing chemically different crystalline blocks; (2) critically 
analyzing the kinetic and thermodynamic factors governing the crystal orientation in crystalline 
block copolymers; (3) discovering the special interactive crystallization kinetics in C-C diblock 
copolymers; (4) identifying the special “orthogonal crystal orientation” in C-C block copolymers.   
Most of these important findings have been published in the prestigious journal in polymer science, 
including Macromolecules and J. Phys. Chem. B.  We have also been invited to write a review 
article on crystal orientation in block copolymer by Soft Matter.   
 
 
Keywords: crystalline-amorphous block copolymer, blend, crystalline-crystalline block 
copolymer, cocrystallization, nanostructure 
 
 4
結晶程序可能被拘限在先前 C1 結晶所誘導的奈米結構中，故 C2的結晶動力學、
結晶度、晶體取向性(crystal orientation)等都可能受到這個奈米結構影響，因此
C1 鏈段的結晶程序可能是主控整個系統最終形態的關鍵。另一個冷卻模式稱為
「一階段冷卻」，即將共聚物直接從熔融態快速降溫至 Tc< Tm(C2)，此時兩鏈段
都可以結晶，故兩程序是互相競爭的，因此兩鏈段個別的結晶動力學、晶體取向
與共聚物最終之結晶形態將受控於這個競爭的結果。 
目前文獻上已有報導數個 C-C diblocks 之研究，所探討的系統包括
poly(ε-caprolactone)-block-poly(L-lactide) (PCL-b-PLLA) 、 
poly(ε-caprolactone)-block- poly(ethylene) (PCL-b-PE) 、
poly(p-dioxanone)-block-poly(ε-caprolactone) (PPDX-b-PCL) 、 
poly(ethylene)-b-poly(ethylene oxide) (PE-b-PEO) 、 poly(ethylene 
glycol)-block-poly(ε-caprolactone) (PEG-b-PCL) 與 PE-b-PLLA（此為本實驗室在
雙結晶性嵌段共聚物之初期研究成果等，但這些研究大多僅針對有限的共聚組成、
分子量及結晶溫度做探討，這些成果尚無法完整解析 C-C diblocks 複雜的結晶行
為與形態形成之機制。 
本計畫為延伸本實驗室過去在結晶性嵌段共聚物之研究，以三年的時間深入
探討嵌段共聚物系統之結晶行為、晶體取向性及結晶誘導之奈米結構形成機制，
系統包括：(1) 結晶-無定形嵌段共聚物、 (2)由兩種結晶-無定形嵌段共聚物所形
成之摻合體(crystalline-amorphous block copolymer blends)，(3)包含兩種結晶鏈段
之雙結晶性嵌段共聚物(crystalline-crystalline block copolymers)。我們廣泛運用同
步輻射小角度與廣角度 X-光散射(SAXS/WAXS)針對共聚物組成（決定熔融形態）、
分子量（決定 segregation strength）、兩鏈段的熔點差距及結晶溫度（決定兩鏈段
之結晶速率差異）、降溫模式（一階段 vs.兩階段冷卻）等變因對於(a)結晶動力
學、(b) 結晶程序對於共聚物之微相分離形態影響、(c)晶體熔化行為及(d)晶體取
向等之效應進行深入、系統性的研究，解析出結晶性嵌段共聚物的競爭結晶、微
相奈米結構及相對晶體取向等複雜的控制機制，本研究之成果預計將為嵌段共聚
物與高分子結晶領域開創新的研究範疇。 
 
 
 
 
 1
三、 代表性研究成果 
1. Crystallization in the Binary Blends of Crystalline-Amorphous 
Diblock Copolymers Bearing Chemically Different Crystalline 
Block 
Abstract  
The crystallization behavior of the blends of two crystalline-amorphous diblock 
copolymers bearing chemically different crystalline block have been studied. A series 
of lamellae-forming blends of a polystyrene-block-poly(ethylene oxide) (SEO) with 
shorter block lengths and a polystyrene-block-poly(L-lactide) (SLLA) with longer 
block lengths were prepared.  Over the composition range investigated, the PS 
blocks from these two copolymers were found to mix intimately in the PS lamellar 
microdomains in the melt; moreover, the PEO and PLLA blocks also formed a 
miscible mixture in their domains. Due to the constraint imposed by the junction 
points localized at the lamellar interface and the nanoscale confinement effect, the 
crystallization behavior of PEO and PLLA blocks within the lamellar microdomains 
was found to deviate from that in the corresponding homopolymer blends.  In the 
SLLA-rich blends, the junction point constraint coupled with the poor chain mobility 
at low crystallization temperature (≤ ~ 45 oC) hampered the relatively long-range 
transport of PLLA segments for crystal growth.  In this case, a local demixing 
between a fraction of PEO and PLLA chains took place, yielding the PLLA crystalline 
domains in which the PLLA crystalline stems were intervened by the PEO chains.  
This crystalline species gave rise to a relatively broad peak at 2θ=15.92° in the wide 
angle X-ray scattering profile and displayed a much lower melting point of ca. 100 oC 
comparing to that of the typical -form crystal of PLLA.  It was suggested that the 
inserted PEO chains served as the molecular defects which induced an expansion of 
 3
(2) Cn-b-Am/Cl’-b-Ak blend, where the crystalline blocks (Cn and Cl’) are chemically 
different.  
The phase behavior of the first system in the melt state has been well studied both 
experimentally and theoretically.15-21  Recent investigations of the blends of a short 
symmetric diblock and a long symmetric or slightly asymmetric diblock indicated that 
the two types of blocks could mix in their respective microdomains, with the short 
diblock acting as the cosurfactant for the long diblock copolymers.  When 
considering the crystallization behavior of Cn-b-Am/Cl-b-Ak blend with Cn and Cl 
block and Am and Ak blocks mixing intimately in their respective microdomains in the 
melt, one question which arises naturally is whether Cn and Cm blocks would 
cocrystallize or phase segregate upon crystallization?  Cocrystallization is of course 
more likely if the crystallization temperature (Tc) is lower than the Tg of the 
amorphous block, because the immobility of the junction points at the interface may 
restrict the phase segregation of the two crystalline bocks upon crystallization. Our 
previous study of the blends of two polybutadiene-block-poly(ethylene oxide)s 
(PB-b-PEO) showed that even when Tc was well above the Tg of PB block, the PEO 
blocks of different chain lengths in the blends could co-crystallize over a broad range 
of undercooling.22 The cocrystallization was proposed to be a thermodynamic 
requirement for attaining a lower interfacial energy and a higher conformational 
entropy of the longer PB blocks in the system.   
   In the present study, we explore the crystallization behavior of the second type of 
blend system, Cn-b-Am/Cl’-b-Ak, formed by a polystyrene-block-poly(ethylene oxide) 
(PS-b-PEO, abbreviated further as SEO) and a polystyrene-block-poly(L-lactide) 
(PS-b-PLLA, abbreviated further as SLLA), with PEO and PLLA being the crystalline 
blocks.  It has been shown previously that the binary blends of PEO and PLLA 
 5
SLLA-rich blend will also be revealed. 
 
Experimental Section 
Materials and sample preparation. PS-b-PEO (MPS = 9500, MPEO = 9500, 
PDI=1.07) and PS-b-PLLA (MPS = 21000, MPLLA = 19500, PDI=1.11) were purchased 
from Polymer Source, Inc. The volume fractions of PLLA blocks in these two 
samples were 0.49 and 0.44, respectively, at room temperature. For the blend 
preparation, the two copolymers with desired weight ratios were dissolved in 
chloroform to yield 3 wt% solutions. The solutions were subsequently cast on the 
Petri dishes and the blend films were obtained after evaporating most solvent slowly 
at room temperature. The films were then further dried in vacuum at 60 ℃ for 4 h.  
  The crystalline samples of SEO, SLLA and their blends were basically prepared by 
isothermal crystallizations at the desired Tcs for 48 hrs.  The samples were first 
annealed at 190 oC for 10 mins to erase previous crystallization history followed by 
rapid cooling ( > 100 oC/min) to Tc.  
 
Small Angle X-ray Scattering (SAXS) Measurement. The morphology of the 
diblocks and their blends in the melt state was probed by a Bruker NANOSTAR 
SAXS apparatus. The SAXS instrument was equipped with a 3.0 kW X-ray generator 
operated at 40 kV x 35 mA and a two-dimensional position-sensitive proportional 
counter. The Cu Kα line (λ = 0.154 nm) was used.  For the melt structure 
characterization, the samples were first equilibrated at 190 oC for 30 mins followed by 
data acquisition for 30 mins.  The scattering intensity profile was output as the plot 
of the scattering intensity (I) vs. the scattering vector, q = (4π/λ)sin(θ/2) (θ= scattering 
angle).  The SAXS profiles were corrected for the absorption, the air scattering and 
 7
0.2 Hz, respectively. 
 
Results and Discussion 
Miscibility and Melt Morphology of SEO/SLLA Blends.  Figure 1(a) shows the 
SAXS profiles of SEO, SLLA and SEO/SLLA blends collected in the melt state ( T = 
190℃ ). The solid curves represent the fits of the experimental data by the 
paracrystalline model of lamellar structure considering polydispersity of lamellar 
thickness, limited grain size and lattice distortion by thermal fluctuations.32  Neat 
SEO displayed a lamellar morphology as evidenced by integral position ratio of the 
scattering peaks and the good fit of the experimental data by the paracrystalline model.  
Neat SLLA was found to exhibit a hexagonally packed cylinder morphology as the 
scattering pattern showed a series of peaks with the position ratios of 1: 31/2: 41/2: 71/2. 
Considering that the N value (calculated using (T) = 96.6/T - 0.091 as reported by 
Hillmyer et al.) and the volume fraction of PLLA block (fPLLA) was 39.7 and 0.43 at 
190 oC, respectively, the formation of hexagonal phase was indeed consistent with the 
phase diagram of PS-b-PLA established by Hillmyer et al.33.  
A major issue here is the miscibility of the PS blocks from the two copolymers 
and also that between PEO and PLLA blocks in their respective microdomains in the 
melt state. As shown in Figure 1(a), the blends of SEO and SLLA displayed lamellar 
morphology over the composition range investigated, as evidenced by the multiple 
scattering peaks showing integral position ratios as well as the satisfactory fits by the 
paracrystalline lamellar model. The formation of lamellar morphology by the blends 
was indeed expected if the constituting blocks from the two copolymers were miscible 
in their respective domains, because the overall volume fractions of PS component in 
the blends ranged from 0.52 to 0.54.  Figure 1(b) plots the interlamellar distance (d) 
 9
DSC results have thus shown that the PS blocks from SEO and SLLA and the PEO 
and PLLA blocks were miscible in their respective microdomains. The blends 
exhibited a lamellar morphology consisting of alternating PS and PEO/PLLA lamellae 
in the melt state. 
 
Crystallization Behavior of PEO and PLLA Blocks within Lamellar 
Microdomains. Over the Tc range investigated, the lamellar structure in the melt state 
was found to be preserved after the crystallization, as the SAXS profiles were 
essentially unperturbed.  Therefore, the crystallizations of PLLA and PEO blocks 
were effectively confined within the lamellar microdomains.  In this study, the 
crystallization behavior of PEO and PLLA blocks was investigated by the 
combination of temperature-dependent WAXS and DSC. Figure 2 displays a series of 
temperature-dependent WAXS profiles of SEO/SLLA blends having been 
isothermally crystallized at 30 oC (the corresponding results of neat SEO and SLLA 
can be found in Figure S3 of the Supporting Information).  For the WAXS 
measurement, the sample was held at the prescribed temperature for 5 mins followed 
by data acquisition for another 5 mins for each measurement; thus, the time period for 
structural formation or reorganization at each temperature was 10 mins.  
 
Crystalline PEO is known to exhibit two strong reflections at 2θ= 19.05° and 
23.17°, corresponding to (120) and (hkl) plane with d-spacing of 0.39 nm (at least 
seven (hkl) planes have similar d-spacing)34,35, respectively (see Figure S2 of the 
Supporting Information). PLLA homopolymer was amorphous upon quenching from 
190℃ to 30 oC, but the crystallinity developed significantly on subsequent heating to 
60℃, which was right above its Tg of 56 oC (see Figure S2 of the Supporting 
Information). In this case, two strong reflections at 2θ = 16.30° and 18.57° 
 11
characteristic PLLA crystalline reflection at 2θ = 16.32° emerged on further heating to 
100 oC and finally vanished at 180 oC (> TmPLLA ≈ 165 oC). In this system, the 
crystallization of PEO blocks took place upon cooling to 30 oC due to higher 
concentration and high chain mobility (Tc >> Tg); the PEO crystallinity attained was 
however lower than that in the corresponding homopolymer blend, because the 
immobility of the junction points (due to vitrification of PS domain) localized at the 
lamellar interface limited the distance over which the PLLA chains could be expelled 
out of the crystal growth front during PEO crystallization. As a result, the crystal 
growth of PEO was “poisoned” by the surrounding PLLA blocks.36 The crystallization 
of PLLA block at 30 oC was hampered completely by such a poisoning effect. 
However, when the temperature was raised to ca. 100 oC, the gain of junction point 
mobility of glassy PS layers and the enhancement of chain mobility allowed PLLA to 
crystallize to a detectable level of crystallinity under the prescribed heating protocol.  
For the SLLA-rich 33/67 and 20/80 blends, a peculiar broad peak at 2θ= 15.92° 
(corresponding to d-spacing of 5.56 Å) was observed at the as-crystallized state (Tc 
=30 oC) (Figure 2(b) and 2(c)). This peak was not identified in the corresponding 
blends of PEO and PLLA homopolymers, and it vanished and was replaced by the 
sharp (200)/(110) peak of PLLA -form crystals upon heating to ca. 100 oC due to the 
occurrence of significant crystallization.  The observed WAXS profiles of 20/80 
blend at 30 and 100 oC were further deconvoluted into the constituting scattering 
peaks, as shown in Figure 2(d).   At 30 oC the scattering curve contained a large 
amorphous halo at 2θ= 18.82°and a small peak at 15.92°. The relative areas of these 
two peaks prescribed the amounts of the two phases to be 95.85% and 4.15%, 
respectively. When the sample was heated to 100 oC, distinct PLLA crystalline peaks 
developed with the relative area of 34.62% and the scattering peak at 15.92o was not 
 13
peculiar structure should be contributed primarily by PLLA blocks because its melting 
temperature was higher than TmPEO and it appeared in the blends with high SLLA 
composition.  
 
It is further noted that the peculiar structure exhibited two melting peaks for Tcs 
lying below 65 oC, whereas only a single melting endotherm was identified when Tc ≥ 
65 oC. The Tc dependence of the melting curve was in parallel with that of the 
conventional crystalline polymers displaying double melting peaks39,40, thereby 
implying that the peculiar structure should be crystalline in nature. Another interesting 
feature noted from Figure 4 is that the melting peaks of both PEO and PLLA -form 
crystals showed up clearly for Tc ≥ 65 oC, whereas the melting peak of the peculiar 
structure was hardly discernible. On the other hand, the crystallinities of both PEO 
and PLLA were very low (or even undetectable for PEO) for the Tcs (= 30 and 45 oC) 
at which the peculiar structure clearly formed.   
 
  The DSC and WAXS results revealed that under the prescribed isothermal 
crystallization condition (i.e., rapid cooling from 190 oC to the prescribed Tcs for 
crystallization for 48 hrs), the peculiar structure in SLLA-rich blends developed only 
at sufficiently low Tc, (TgEO/LLA ≈ 28 oC < Tc ≤ ~ 45 oC).  This peculiar structure was 
able to sustain up to ca. 100 oC as evidenced by the DSC scans in Figure 4.  
Significant crystallization of PLLA was able to take place at Tc ≥ ~ 55 oC after the 
48-hr annealing.  Therefore, the temperature range over which the peculiar structure 
may form was narrow.   We postulated that the formation of the peculiar structure at 
low Tc and the occurrence of significant crystallization above ca. 55 oC were related 
 15
PLLA chains could still take place to yield PLLA crystalline domains in which the 
PLLA crystalline stems were intervened by the PEO chains (see Figure 5(b)).  It is 
speculated that the presence of the inserted PEO chains served as the molecular (line) 
defects and induced an expansion of the a-axis and b-axis of the α-form PLLA unit 
cell (so as to shift the (200)/(110) peak to 15.92o) while the c-axis along the chain 
direction remained unchanged.42,43  The excess free energy associated with these 
defects caused a significant depression of melting point to ca. 100 oC. 
 
Orientation of PLLA Crystallites in the Lamellar Microdomains. We have also 
examined the crystal orientation of PLLA in 20/80 blend. In this case, the oriented 
crystalline blend was prepared by LAOS at 190 oC followed by rapid quench to the 
desired Tc for crystallization.  Figure 6(a)-(c) shows the 2-D SAXS patterns viewed 
along the normal, tangential, radial and directions (designated as z, x, y and 
respectively). The presence of arcs in the 2-D SAXS patterns indicates that large-scale 
orientations of the microdomains were accomplished by LAOS. The SAXS patterns 
were almost identical along x and y directions and the fact that the diffraction arcs 
were located at the meridians indicated that the lamellar microdomains stacked along 
the z direction. By contrast, only a weak isotropic pattern was observed in the 2-D 
pattern along the z direction. This suggests that lamellar microdomains adopt random 
orientation when the X-ray is directed along the layer normal direction.. 
 
    Figure 6(d)-(f) displays the corresponding 2-D WAXS patterns along z, x and y 
direction, respectively, of the blend having been crystallized at 30 oC. The defective 
crystalline domains contributed predominately to the crystalline phase in this sample. 
It can be seen that these domains exhibited a pair of arcs in the equator in the 
tangential and radial views, while only an isotropic ring was observed in the normal 
 17
demixing between a fraction of PEO and PLLA chains occurred to generate the PLLA 
crystalline domains in which the crystalline stems were intervened by PEO chains. 
These domains exhibited a melting point of ca. 100℃ and gave rise to a peak at 2θ
≒15.92° in the WAXS profile. Finally, using the macroscopically oriented 20/80 
blend, the PLLA stems in the crystallites within the lamellar microdomains at Tc = 
100 oC were found to orient normal to the lamellar interface. 
 
Acknowledgement. We gratefully acknowledge financial support from the National 
Science Council Taiwan under Contract NSC 95-2221-E-007-083.   
 
Supporting information available: Glass transition regions in the DSC thermograms 
of SLLA and SEO/SLLA 33/67 and 20/80 blends; temperature-dependent WAXS 
profiles of PEO and PLLA homopolymers; temperature-dependent WAXS profiles of 
neat SEO and SLLA; Tc dependence of the mobility term associated with the 
crystallization rate of SEO/SLLA 20/80 blend. This information is available free of 
charge via the Internet at http://pubs.acs.org. 
References and Notes 
(1) Loo, Y.-L.; Register, R. A. Developments in Block Copolymer Science and 
Technology; Hamley, I. W., Ed.; Chap. 6.; Wiley: New York, 2004. 
(2) Müller, A. J.; Balsamo, V.; Arnal, M. L. Adv. Polym. Sci. 2005, 190, 1. 
(3) Reiter, G.; Castelein, G.; Sommer, J.-U. Polymer Crystallization: Observations, 
Concepts and Interpretations. Sommer, J.-U.; Reiter, G., Eds.; Chap. 8.; 
Springer, 2003. 
(4) Huang, P.; Zhu, L.; Guo, Y.; Ge, Q.; Jing, A. J.; Chen, W. Y.; Quirk, R. P.; Cheng, 
S. Z. D.; Thomas, E. L.; Lotz, B.; Hsiao, B. S.; Avila- Orta, C. A.; Sics, I. 
Macromolecules 2004, 37, 3689. 
 19
(19) Shi, A. C.; Noolandi, J.; Hoffmann, H. Macromolecules 1994, 27, 6661. 
(20) Court, F.; Hashimoto, T. Macromolecules 2001, 34, 2536. 
(21) Court, F.; Hashimoto, T. Macromolecules 2002, 35, 2566. 
(22) Huang, Y. Y.; Nandan, B.; Chen, H. L.; Liao, C. S.; Jeng, U. S. 
Macromolecules 2004, 37, 8175. 
(23) Younes, H.; Cohn, D.; Eur. Polym. J. 1988, 24, 765. 
(24) Nakafuku, C.; Sakoda, M.; Polym. J. 1993, 25, 909. 
(25) Nakafuku, C. Polym. J. 1996, 28, 568. 
(26) Nijenhuis, A. J.; Pennings, A. J. Polymer 1996, 37, 5849. 
(27) Yang, J. M.; Chen, H. L.; You, J. W.; Hwang, J. C. Polym. J. 1997, 8, 657. 
(28) Lai, W. C.; Liau, W. B.; Lin, T. T. Polymer 2004, 45, 3073. 
(29) Mao, H.; Hillmyer, M.A. Macromol. Chem. Phys. 2008, 209, 1647. 
(30) Mao, H.; Arrechea, P. L.; Bailey, T.S.; Johnson, B.J.S.; Hillmyer, M.A. 
Faraday Discuss. 2005, 128, 149. 
(31) Mao, H.; Hillmyer, M.A. Soft Matter 2006, 2, 57. 
(32) Förster, S.; Timmann, A.; Schellbah, C.; Meyer, A.; Funari, S. S.; Mulvaney, 
P.; Knott, R. J. Phys. Chem. B, 2005, 109, 1347. 
(33) Zalusky, A. S.; Olayo-Valles, R.; Wolf, J. H.; Hillmyer, M. A. J. Am. Chem. 
Soc. 2002, 124, 12767. 
(34) Cheng, S. Z. D.; Wu, S. S.; Chen, J.; Zhuo, Q.; Quirk, R. P.; von Meerwall, E. 
D.; Hsiao, B. S.; Habenschuss, A.; Zschack, P. R. Macromolecules 1993, 26, 
5105. 
(35) Takahashi, Y.; Tadokoro, H. Macromolecules 1973, 6, 672. 
(36) Ungar, G.; Putra, E. G. R.; de Silva, D. S. M.; Shcherbina, M. A.; Waddon, A. J. 
Adv. Polym. Sci. 2005, 180, 45. 
(37) Cho, J.; Baratian, S.; Kim, J.; Yeh, F.; Hsiao, B. S.; Runt, J. Polymer 2003, 44, 
 21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. (a) SAXS profiles of SEO, SLLA and SEO/SLLA blends collected in the 
melt state (T = 190℃). The solid curves represent the fits of the experimental data by 
the paracrystalline model of lamellar structure considering polydispersity of lamellar 
thickness, limited grain size and lattice distortion by thermal fluctuations. (b) The 
variations of the interlamellar distance (d) and the area per junction point at the 
lamellar interface () as a function of weight fraction of SLLA in the blends. 
 
0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2
10-10
10-8
10-6
10-4
10-2
100
102
3
131/2
71/2
41/23
1/2
1
1
80/20
0/100
20/80
40/60
50/50
60/40
100/0
SEO/SLLA
 
 
I(
q)
 (a
.u
.)
q (nm-1)
(a) 
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
 
 
D
 (n
m
)
wSLLA
 (nm
2)
 
(b) 
 23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. The room-temperature WAXS profiles of SEO/SLLA 20/80 blend having 
been crystallized at various Tcs for 48 hrs.  It can be seen that the 15.92o peak was 
identified for Tc = 30 and 45 oC, while at Tc ≥ 55 oC significant crystallization of 
PLLA took place, giving rise to the sharp (200)/(110) peak at 2 = 16.41o..   
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 15 20 25 30
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
 
 
(200)/(110)
16.41o
15.92o
TC=65
oC
TC=55
oC
TC=45
oC
TC=30
oC
SEO/SLLA
     20/80
R
el
at
iv
e 
In
te
ns
ity
 (a
.u
.)
2 (deg)
 25
 
 
Figure 5. Schematic illustration of the structural development in SLLA-rich blends.  
(a) At sufficiently high Tc (≥ 55 oC), the formal crystallization involving rather 
long-range transport of PLLA chains to the crystal growth front could take place more 
easily. The amorphous PEO blocks segregated locally during the PLLA crystallization 
underwent crystallization upon cooling to below TmPEO. (b) At low Tc  ( ≤ 45 oC), the 
formal crystallization was strongly hampered; however, a local demixing between 
PEO and PLLA chains took place to yield PLLA crystalline domains in which the 
crystalline stems were intervened by PEO chains.    
 
 
 
1 
2. Critical Analysis of the Crystal Orientation Behavior in 
Polyethylene-based Crystalline-Amorphous Diblock Copolymer  
 
Introduction 
Incorporation of crystallization into the self-organization mechanism of block 
copolymers is an effective route to enrich their morphology and property.1-15 It has 
been established that the morphology formed after crystallization in diblock 
copolymer composing of a crystalline (C) and an amorphous (A) block is determined 
by the interplay among the segregation strength in the melt, the crystallization driving 
force of the C block and the vitrification of the A block. When the glass transition 
temperature of the A block (TgA) is higher than the crystallization temperature (Tc), 
the crystallization can be effectively restricted within the microdomains surrounded 
by the hard glassy matrix established by the microphase separation.16-21 If TgA is lower 
than Tc, the amorphous block may provide a soft-confinement environment for the 
crystallization of the C block once the segregation strength is sufficiently 
strong.10,19,21-24 
In the case where the crystallization is confined within the microdomains, it has 
been recognized that the crystals formed may display preferred orientation with 
respect to the domain interface. Early studies of several poly(ethylene oxide) 
3 
polyethylene-block-poly(ethylene-alt-propylene) (PE-b-PEP)7,33-35 and 
polyethylene-block-poly(vinylcyclohexane) (PE-b-PVCH)7,35. For these three 
symmetric diblocks, homogeneous crystal orientation with c-axis of PE in the 
crystallites aligning perpendicular to nˆ  was always observed irrespective of whether 
the crystallization was subjected to a hard or soft confinement.  
Crystal orientations in C-A diblock systems with other types of C block have 
also been addressed. Ho et al. have investigated the crystallization of poly(L-lactide) 
(PLLA) block within the microphase-separated lamellar microdomain of 
poly(L-lactide)-block-poly(styrene) (PLLA-b-PS).21 This system was special in that 
the crystallization window of PLLA spanned from the temperature above TgPS to 
below TgPS, such that both soft and hard confinement to PLLA crystallization was 
accessible in a single copolymer. It was found that PLLA crystals always exhibited 
homeotropic orientation irrespective of the confinement type. 
Sun et al. have studied a series of lamellae-forming 
poly(ε-caprolactone)-block-poly(4-vinylpyridine) (PCL-b-P4VP)36 , where it was  
found that the domain thickness could control the crystal orientation and 
crystallization mechanism. The strong confinement induced not only a change of 
nucleation mechanism from heterogeneous to homogeneous nucleation but also a 
transformation in crystal orientation from homeotropic to homogeneous and even to 
5 
shear-oriented samples. It will be shown that the crystals displayed no preferred 
orientation at intermediate to large nominal degree of undercooling (ΔT = Tm - Tc > ~ 
75 K, with Tm being the nominal melting point ~ 104 oC). At higher Tc, PE crystals 
started to show homogeneous orientation and such an orientation persisted even to 
very low ΔT (as low as 2 K). In light of this finding, we concluded that homogeneous 
orientation is an intrinsic preferred orientation of PE crystals formed by the confined 
crystallization of PE-based block copolymers. Finally, we will organize and discuss 
the thermodynamic and kinetic factors that may govern the preferred crystal 
orientation for better understanding of the methodology for directional control of the 
crystalline nanostructures of block copolymers. We postulate that the competition 
between nucleation and crystal growth kinetics dictates the orientation behavior. 
 
Experimental Section 
Material. The synthesis of PE-b-PDLLA used in this study has been described in 
previous publications.40 Briefly, 1,3-butadiene was anionically polymerized in 
cyclohexane using sec-butyllithium as the initiator and subsequently end-capped with 
ethylene oxide to give hydroxyl-terminated 1,4-polybutadiene containing ca. 93% of 
the 1,4-regioisomer. This polybutadiene was then hydrogenated to give 
hydroxyl-terminated polyethylene, which was utilized in combination with AlEt3 as a 
macroinitiator in the ring-opening polymerization of DL-lactide (PDLLA). Since the 
7 
yielding a 5% (w/v) solution. The solvent was evaporated slowly at 70 oC followed by 
further drying under vacuum at 70 oC for two days to remove the residual solvent. 
 
Large-Amplitude Oscillatory Shear (LAOS) Experiment. Large amplitude 
oscillatory shear was performed to produce large-scale alignment of the 
microdomains in PE-b-PDLLA. The shear was carried out with a Linkam CSS 450 
shear hot stage in the oscillatory mode with the shear frequency of 0.3 Hz and the 
strain amplitude of 70%. The samples with the size of 5.05.00.2 mm3 were 
subjected to LAOS for 2 h under a nitrogen atmosphere at 140 oC to achieve good 
alignment of the lamellar microdomains. The shearing geometry is schematically 
illustrated in Figure 1. The shear direction is denoted as xˆ  and the gradient direction 
is along zˆ . It will be shown that the lamellar normal ( nˆ ) is along zˆ .  
 
Crystallization Treatment. The samples after shearing were further treated at 
prescribed crystallization temperatures. For -50   Tc   102 oC, the shear-oriented 
sample was first annealed at 170 oC in one Linkam HFS 91 hot stage for 15 min to 
erase the residual stresses and thermal histories. After 15 min, the sample was 
promptly transferred from the Linkam hot stage into the DSC sample chamber which 
was pre-equilibrated at the prescribed Tc. The accuracy of sample temperature control 
9 
Å was collimated into the beam size 0.5 mm high and 3 mm wide by two slits 
separated by 1.1 mm. With a sample-to-detector distance of 212 mm, the diffraction 
patterns in tangential-, radial- and top-view were collected over the q range of 1 to 33 
nm-1. 
 
Results and Discussion 
For the crystallization experiment, the shear-oriented samples of PE-b-PDLLA 
were first annealed at 170 oC for 15 min to erase previous crystallization history 
followed by cooling to the desired Tc for crystallization. Figure 2 shows the 
representative 2D SAXS patterns of the sample having been crystallized at 97 oC.  
The scattering patterns obtained from tangential (Figure 2a) and radial view (Figure 
2b) were practically identical, showing multiple reflections at the equator with the 
position ratio of 1:2:3, which indicated the presence of lamellar morphology with the 
interlamellar distance of 86 nm. The scattering patterns and the value of interlamellar 
distance were essentially identical to those found in the melt state,39 signaling that the 
melt morphology was effectively preserved upon PE crystallization. In other words, 
the crystallization was confined within the lamellar microdomains established in the 
melt state although Tc was higher than TgPDLLA. The lamellar domains in the sheared 
sample were macroscopically aligned with the lamellar normal directed along zˆ  (i.e., 
11 
diffractions were orthogonal to each other (Figure 4b), the c-axis or the direction of 
the crystalline stem was deduced to align perpendicular to the lamellar normal (or 
parallel to the lamellar interface). However, when looking along zˆ (or the lamellar 
normal), the a-axis of the crystals did not show preferred orientation as indicated by 
the isotropic WAXD pattern obtained from the top view.  
Based on the X-ray scattering patterns, the organization of PE crystals in the 
lamellar microdomains over 45   Tc   102 oC is schematically illustrated in 
Figure 4c. The crystals were found to exhibit homogeneous orientation with the 
crystalline stems aligning parallel to the lamellar interface. Such a crystal orientation 
was consistent with the previous findings for other PE-containing 
crystalline-amorphous diblock copolymers.  It is important to note that homogeneous 
orientation was still dominant even at Tc = 102 oC, which was only 2 K below the 
nominal melting point of PE block.  
Figure 5 shows the representative 2D SAXS and WAXD patterns of 
shear-oriented PE-b-PDLLA having been crystallized at Tc = 40 oC < TgPDLLA, where 
the crystallization of PE block occurred under hard confinement. Similar scattering 
patterns were observed for isothermal crystallization at the lower Tcs or for 
crystallization induced by directly quenching the sample into liquid nitrogen from the 
melt (see Figure S1 in Supporting Information). Since the tangential- and radial-view 
13 
crystalline stems normal to the lamellar interface) irrespective of the confinement type 
prescribed by PS blocks. This fact agrees with our present observations in 
PE-b-PDLLA; as a result, the random orientation is believed to arise from the 
extremely high nucleation density at large undercoolings instead of being related to 
the confinement type. 
The 2D SAXS/WAXD patterns of the shear-oriented PE-b-PDLLA crystallized 
over a broad range of Tc (-50 oC ≤ Tc ≤ 102 oC) revealed that, the orientation of PE 
crystals transformed from random orientation (at relatively large undercooling) to 
homogeneous orientation (at lower undercooling). Here, we have evaluated the degree 
of crystal orientation from the Herman’s orientation function (f) by using the 1-D peak 
intensity distribution of both the (110) and (200) diffractions along the azimuthal 
angle (ψ).ref The tangential-view patterns were analyzed for all Tcs and the reference 
direction was assigned as yˆ  direction. The f has a value of 1 when the diffraction 
plane normal is parallel to the reference direction (i.e. ψ= 0o); the value of -0.5 
indicates the diffraction plane normal is perpendicular to the reference direction (i.e. 
ψ= 90o), and a value of 0 signals the crystal orientation becomes random. Figure S2 
shows the orientation factor of both (110) and (200) diffractions varied with the 
crystallization temperature, the orientation changed gradually from random to 
homogeneous orientation with increasing Tc ranging from 30 to 60 oC as manifested 
15 
of Cohen et al., who used a PE-b-PS with essentially defect-free PE block for 
studying the crystal orientation.43 According to the pole figure analysis, it was found 
that the a-axis of the PE unit cell oriented normal to the lamellar interface, while b- 
and c-axis (and thus the crystalline stem) arranged randomly, which were similar to 
that found earlier using the branch-containg PE block.32 Recently, Myers et al. have 
developed a synthetic route to prepare a set of defect-free PE-b-PVCH by 
hydrogenation of polycyclopentene (PCP) and PS blocks in PCP-b-PS.44 They further 
reported the morphology and crystal orientation within various types of PE 
microdomains, covering spherical, cylindrical and lamellar structures.45 In the case of 
lamellar domain, homogeneous orientation was again observed. Therefore, it can be 
concluded that the commonly observed homogeneous orientation of PE crystals in 
microphase-separated lamellar microdomains is not related to the existence of short 
branch defects. 
In order to reveal the crystal orientation, samples with large-scale orientation of 
microdomains were normally prepared by shearing in the melt state. The shearing 
allowed the lamellar interface to align preferentially along the shear direction (see 
Figure 1) and hence the PE block chains might also be stretched toward the shear 
direction. Once the stretching of PE block is not completely relaxed before 
crystallization, the orientational memory may cause the crystalline stem to align 
17 
A recent study of the change of PEO crystal orientation with respect to Tc by 
Hsiao and Cheng postulated that the transformation from homogeneous to 
homeotropic orientation was related to the change of nucleation mechanism from 
homogeneous nucleation to heterogeneous nucleation.30,31 Since homogeneous 
nucleation normally occurs at very large undercooling, where the nuclei explode in 
the system leading to very high nucleation density, this implies that homogeneous 
crystal orientation may be related to high nucleation density in the crystallization 
process. 
Here we evoke a kinetic reasoning which postulates that the crystal orientation is 
governed by the competition between nucleation rate and crystal growth kinetics. 
When a given nucleus appears within the lamellar microdomain, it should not feel the 
confinement effect because its size is much smaller than the lamellar thickness (cf. the 
critical thickness of PE nucleus at ΔT ≈ 70 K is ca. 4 nm); therefore, most nuclei 
developed in the domain are most likely randomly oriented.14 At very large 
undercooling where the nucleation is extremely rapid, a great number of nuclei 
explode in the microdomain almost simultaneously. The volume is then quickly filled 
with randomly oriented nuclei and the jamming of these crystallites frustrates the 
crystal growth, leading eventually to crystals in random orientation (Figure 7(a)). 
At the lower undercooling where the nucleation density is not exceedingly high 
19 
the bulk, polyethylene has an intrinsically high density of active nuclei (of the order 
of 109 nuclei/cm3, at least 3 orders of magnitude larger than PEO and PCL).20,49 All of 
the above suggest that PE indeed has an excellent nucleating power and that may lead 
to the persistence of homogeneous orientation in the diblock copolymers. 
 
Conclusions 
The orientation of PE crystals formed in the lamellar microdomains of a 
crystalline-amorphous PE-b-PDLLA has been revealed over a broad range of Tc.  
The crystals formed at relatively large nominal degree of undercooling (ΔT > ~ 65 K) 
were randomly orientated. Homogeneous orientation with crystalline stems aligning 
parallel to the lamellar interface was observed at higher Tc, while homeotropic 
orientation was not found even at very low undercooling (as low as 2 K). However, it 
still remains possible that the homeotropic orientation may appear at extremely lower 
undercoolings (i.e., when ΔT approaches to zero). Our discussion of the controlling 
factors for the orientational order indicated that homeotropic orientation should in 
general be the thermodynamically favored mode as it prescribes a larger crystal 
thickness. Therefore, homogeneous crystal orientation was considered to be a 
consequence of the competition between nucleation and crystal growth rate. At very 
large undercooling, the very high number density of the randomly oriented nuclei 
21 
Supporting information available: The 2D SAXS/WAXD patterns of shear-oriented 
PE-b-PDLLA after crystallizations at 102, 80, 70, 60, 45, 30, 10, -10, -30 -50 oC or 
directly quenching into liquid nitrogen from the melt. This information is available 
free of charge via the Internet at http://pubs.acs.org. 
 
References  
(1) Hamley, I. W. The Physics of Block Copolymers; Oxford University Press: New 
York, 1998; Chapter 5. 
(2) Müller, A. J.; Balsamo, V.; Arnal, M. L. Adv. Polym. Sci. 2005, 190, 1-63. 
(3) Müller, A. J.; Balsamo, V.; Arnal, M. L. In Lecture Notes in Physics: Progress in 
Understanding of Polymer Crystallization; Reiter, G., Strobl, G., Eds.; Springer: 
Berlin, 2007; Springer Lecture Notes in Physics Vol. 714, pp 229-259. 
(4) Ryan, A. J.; Hamley, I. W.; Bras, W.; Bates, F. S. Macromolecules 1995, 28, 
3860-3868. 
(5) Ryan, A. J.; Fairclough, J. P. A.; Hamley, I. W.; Mai, S. M.; Booth, C. 
Macromolecules 1997, 30, 1723-1727. 
(6) Quiram, D. J.; Register, R. A.; Marchand, G. R. Macromolecules 1997, 30, 
4551-4558. 
(7) Hamley, I. W.; Fairclough, J. P. A.; Terrill, N. J.; Ryan, A. J.; Lipic, P. M.; Bates, F. 
23 
(17) Arnal, M. L.; Balsamo, V.; Lopez-Carrasquero, F.; Contreras, J.; Carrillo, M.; 
Schmalz, H.; Abetz, V.; Laredo, E.; Müller, A. J. Macromolecules 2001, 34, 
7973-7982. 
(18) Zhu, L.; Cheng, S. Z. D.; Calhoun, B. H.; Ge, Q.; Quirk, R. P.; Thomas, E. L.; 
Hsiao, B. S.; Yeh, F.; Lotz, B. Polymer 2001, 42, 9121-9131. 
(19) Loo, Y. L.; Register, R. A.; Ryan, A. J. Macromolecules 2002, 35, 2365-2374. 
(20) Müller, A. J.; Balsamo, V.; Arnal, M. L.; Jakob, T.; Schmalz, H.; Abetz, V. 
Macromolecules 2002, 35, 3048-3058. 
(21) Ho, R. M.; Lin, F. H. Tsai, C. C.; Lin, C. C.; Ko, B. T.; Hsiao, B. S.; Sics, I. 
Macromolecules 2004, 37, 5985-5994. 
(22) Loo, Y. L.; Register, R. A.; Ryan, A. J. Phys. Rev. Lett. 2000, 84, 4120-4123. 
(23) Loo, Y. L.; Register, R. A.; Adamson, D. H. Macromolecules 2000, 33, 
8361-8366. 
(24) Loo, Y. L.; Register, R. A.; Ryan, A. J.; Dee, G. T. Macromolecules 2001, 34, 
8968-8977. 
(25) Lotz, B.; Kovacs, A. J. Kolloid Z. Z. Polym. 1966, 209, 97-114. 
(26) Kovacs, A. J.; Lotz, B.; Keller, A. J. Macromol. Sci. Phys. 1969, B3, 385-425. 
(27) Hirata, E.; Ijitsu, T.; Soen, T.; Hashimoto, T.; Kawai, H. Polymer 1975, 16, 
249-260. 
25 
A.; Abetz, V. Macromol. Symp. 2006, 245, 154-160. 
(39) Castillo, R. V.; Müller, A. J.; Lin, M. C.; Chen, H. L.; Jeng, U. S.; Hillmyer, M. A. 
Macromolecules 2008, 41, 6154-6164. 
(40) Anderson, K. S.; Hillmyer, M. A. Polymer 2004, 45, 8809-8823. 
(41) Jeng, U. S.; Su, C. H.; Su, C. J.; Liao, K. F.; Chuang, W. T.; Lai, Y. H.; Chang, J. 
W.; Chen, Y. J.; Huang, Y. S.; Lee, M. T.; Yu, K. L.; Lin, J. M.; Liu, D. G.; Chang, C. 
F.; Liu, C. Y.; Chang, C. H.; Liang, K. S. J. Appl. Crystallogr. 2010, 43, 110-121. 
(42) Zugenmaier P.; Cantow H. J. Kolloid Z. Z. Polym. 1969, 230, 229-236. 
(43) Cohen, R. E.; Bellare, A.; Drzewinski, M. A. Macromolecules 1994, 27, 
2321-2323. 
(44) Myers, S. B.; Register, R. A. Macromolecules 2008, 41, 5283-5288. 
(45) Myers, S. B.; Register, R. A. Macromolecules 2010, 43, 393-401. 
(46) Hu, W. B.; Frenkel, D. Faraday Discuss. 2005, 128, 253-260. 
(47) Quiram, D. J.; Register, R. A.; Marchand, G. R.; Adamson, D. H. 
Macromolecules 1998, 31, 4891-4898. 
(48) Hsu, J. Y.; Hsieh, I. F.; Nandan, B.; Chiu, F. C.; Chen, J. H.; Jeng, U. S.; Chen, H. 
L. Macromolecules 2007, 40, 5014-5022. 
(49) Arnal, M. L.; Matos, M. E.; Morales, R. A.; Santana, O. O.; Müller, A. J. 
Macromol. Chem. Phys. 1998, 199, 2275-2298. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Schematic illustrations of the geometry of shear-oriented PE-b-PDLLA specimen, indicating different 
incident directions of the X-ray for obtaining the 2-D scattering patterns in tangential-view (the X-ray beam is 
travelling along xˆ ), radial-view (the X-ray is along yˆ ) and top-view (the X-ray is along zˆ ). The illustration on 
the right shows the alignment of the lamellar microdomains attained after the shear treatment.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29 
 
 
 
 
     
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. (a) The azimuthal scans of (110), (200), (210) and (020) diffractions of PE crystal; (b) 2D WAXD pattern 
showing that (200) and (020) diffractions are orthogonal to each other; (c) schematic presentation of homogeneous 
crystal orientation with the PE crystalline stems aligning parallel to the lamellar interface.  
 
 
 
(a) 
0 60 120 180 240 300 360
101
102
103
104
(210)
(110)
(200)
R
el
at
iv
e 
In
te
ns
ity
 (a
.u
.)
Azimuthal Angle (degrees)
(020)
(c) 
PDLLA 
PE 
(200)
(020) 
(210)(110)
(b)
qy
qz
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. 2D WAXD patterns of shear-oriented PE-b-PDLLA after isothermal crystallization at 97 oC. Prior to the 
crystallization the sample was annealed at 170 oC for 5 hr for releasing the possible memory of PE chain 
stretching. (a) tangential-view pattern; (b) radial-view pattern; (c) top-view pattern. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)(a) (c)
3. Orthogonal Crystal Orientation in Double-Crystalline Block 
Copolymer  
Abstract 
In this study, we explore the orientation of crystals formed within the lamellar 
domains of a diblock copolymer composing of two crystallizable blocks, i.e., 
poly(L-lactide)-block-polyethylene (PLLA-b-PE). The orientation of both PLLA and 
PE crystals with respect to the lamellar interface was examined under two types of 
crystallization condition with a broad range of crystallization temperatures (Tc). The 
first type was the “two-stage crystallization”, where the PLLA block was allowed to 
crystallize before PE. The second was the “one-stage crystallization”, where PLLA 
and PE blocks competed to crystallize. A homeotropic crystal orientation was always 
observed for the PLLA crystals with the crystalline stems lying parallel to the lamellar 
normal regardless of the crystallization condition, except when Tc approached the 
glass transition temperature of PLLA where the orientation became random. On the 
other hand, a homogeneous crystal orientation with the PE crystalline stems oriented 
perpendicular to the lamellar normal was always identified at low to intermediate 
degree of undercooling, whereas at large undercooling the crystals showed random 
orientation. The “orthogonal orientation” disclosed here was preserved over a broad 
range of undercooling. Our results further demonstrated that the orientation of both 
the system, namely, the copolymer displays a long-range ordered arrangement of 
microdomains at a larger length scale and another characteristic ordering of chains at 
the molecular level. “Structure-within-structure” or “order-within-order” are the 
appropriate terms to describe such a morphological feature. Crystalline molecular 
order, in particular, can be accessed conveniently by introducing one or more 
crystallizable polymers into the block copolymer architecture to yield interesting 
directional control of mechanical, thermal and optical properties from the anisotropic 
nature of polymer chains forming the crystals. 
For directional control of properties, the manipulation of the orientation of 
crystals (represented by the direction of crystalline stems) with respect to the interface 
of microdomains is the most important fundamental task. It has been recognized for 
block copolymers composing of one crystalline and one amorphous block (i.e., the 
“crystalline-amorphous” block copolymers) that the crystals formed within 
microdomains can exhibit certain preferred orientation with respect to the interface.9 
In the case of lamellar9-17 and cylindrical domains18-21, the alignment of crystalline 
stems may be perpendicular or parallel to the interface. The former is called 
“homeotropic orientation” while the later is termed “homogeneous orientation”, as 
adopted from the terminology used for describing the alignment of liquid crystalline 
molecules on substrate. Although the crystal orientations in many 
microdomains without forming spherulites. Moreover, the relatively large disparity in 
melting points (TmPLLA ≈ 172 oC, TmPE ≈ 104 oC) and glass transition temperatures 
(TgPLLA ≈ 62 oC, TgPE ≈ -100 oC) between these two components allow the system to 
crystallize over a broad range of crystallization conditions for tuning the 
competitiveness of the two crystallization events. In this work, we use 2D small-angle 
X-ray scattering (SAXS) and wide-angle X-ray diffraction (WAXD) techniques to 
resolve the orientations of PLLA and PE crystals with respect to the lamellar interface 
under different crystallization conditions. It will be shown that the two types of 
crystals normally exhibited the “orthogonal orientation”, where the PE crystals 
displayed homogeneous orientation while PLLA crystals showed homeotropic 
orientation. Exceptions were observed when the degree of undercooling was large, 
where the orientations of both crystals were random. 
 
Experimental Section 
Material. The synthesis of PLLA-b-PE used in this study has been described in 
previous publications.41 Briefly, 1,3-butadiene was anionically polymerized in 
cyclohexane using sec-butyllithium as the initiator and subsequently end-capped with 
ethylene oxide to give hydroxyl-terminated 1,4-polybutadiene containing ca. 93% of 
the 1,4-regioisomer. This polybutadiene was then hydrogenated to give 
hydroxyl-terminated polyethylene, which was utilized in combination with AlEt3 as a 
microdomains in PLLA-b-PE. The shear was carried out with a Linkam CSS 450 
shear hot stage in the oscillatory mode with the shear frequency of 0.3 Hz and the 
strain amplitude of 70%. The samples with the size of 5.05.00.2 mm3 were 
subjected to LAOS for 2 h under a nitrogen atmosphere at 150 oC to achieve good 
alignment of the lamellar microdomains. The shearing geometry is schematically 
illustrated in Figure 1. The shear direction is denoted as xˆ  and the gradient direction 
is along zˆ . It will be shown that the lamellar normal ( nˆ ) is along zˆ . 
 
Crystallization Treatment. The samples after shearing were further treated at 
prescribed crystallization conditions. For two-stage crystallization process, the 
shear-oriented sample was annealed at 190 oC in a Linkam HFS 91 hot stage for 15 
min to erase the residual stresses and thermal histories. Meanwhile, another Linkam 
hot stage was pre-set at a specific crystallization temperature (i.e., Tc = 120 oC, which 
was higher than TmPE but lower than TmPLLA). After 15 min, the annealed sample was 
promptly transferred to the second hot stage to allow PLLA crystallization. When 
PLLA crystallized to saturation, the sample was subsequently transferred from the 
Linkam hot stage into the DSC sample chamber which was pre-equilibrated at the 
prescribed Tc. Similarly, for one-stage crystallization process, the sample after 
annealing at 190 oC was directly transferred from the hot stage into the DSC pre-set at 
In order to reveal the crystal orientations in double-crystalline PLLA-b-PE 
diblock copolymer, the sample was first shear-oriented at 150 oC for 2 h to produce a 
large-scale alignment of the microdomains in the sample, followed by annealing at 
190 oC to eliminate residual stresses and thermal history. The sample was then treated 
by different thermal conditions to allow for PLLA and PE crystallization.  
Here we have examined the orientation of crystals formed under two types of 
conditions. The first type is called “two-stage crystallization”, where the system was 
cooled from 190 °C (which is higher than both TmPE and TmPLLA) to TcPLLA = 120 °C 
(TmPE < TcPLLA < TmPLLA) to allow PLLA crystallization followed by cooling to 
prescribed temperatures (i.e., TcPE = -50 to 97 oC, and also direct immersion into 
liquid nitrogen) to induce PE crystallization. The other type is called “one-stage 
crystallization”, where the system was cooled directly from 190 °C to the prescribed 
temperatures (Tc < TmPE), at which the competitive crystallization of PLLA and PE 
blocks was anticipated.  
 
Crystal orientation displayed under two-stage crystallization 
Figure 2 shows the 2D SAXS patterns of shear-oriented PLLA-b-PE subjected to 
a two-stage crystallization process with TcPE = 97 oC for the second stage (similar 
results were observed for TcPE = 45 ~ 80 oC). Both tangential- (Figure 2a) and 
reported unit cell of α-form PLLA crystal.46 Furthermore, we could identify a weak 
(002) diffraction situating orthogonally to (110)/(200) diffraction in the lower q region 
as marked in Figure 4b. Since a-axis of the PLLA unit cell was parallel (according to 
the tangential and radial-view pattern) or randomly distributed (manifested from the 
top-view pattern) with respect to the lamellar interface and the crystallographic c-axis 
was found to be parallel to the lamellar normal, the PLLA crystalline stems were 
deduced to orient parallel to the lamellar normal (or perpendicular to the lamellar 
interface). Such a homeotropic orientation of PLLA crystals was in accord with the 
previous results of crystalline-amorphous PLLA-containing diblock copolymer 
systems.15,16 
The diffraction arcs located at the third quadrant (q = 15.2 nm-1) and the forth 
equator (q = 16.8 nm-1) in Figure 3 a and b were attributed to the (110) and (200) 
diffractions of PE crystals, respectively. The angle between these two planes was 
56.3o, which was consistent with the orthorhombic unit cell of PE crystal.47 Since the 
(200) diffraction of PE crystal was found to locate at the equator in the tangential- and 
radial-view pattern, the crystalline stems of PE were deduced to align parallel to the 
lamellar interface, i.e., the crystals showed the homogeneous orientation. This type of 
orientation has been observed prevalently among PE-based crystalline-amorphous 
diblock copolymers.10-14,48 It appears that such a preference of PE crystal orientation 
because its dimension is much smaller than the lamellar thickness; consequently, most 
nuclei developed in the microdomain are randomly oriented.9 At very large 
undercooling where the nucleation is extremely rapid, a great number of nuclei 
explode in the microdomain abruptly; therefore, the microdomains are quickly filled 
with randomly oriented nuclei and the crystal growth becomes highly frustrated by the 
jamming of these crystallites, leading eventually to crystals in random orientation. 
 
Crystal orientation displayed under one-stage crystallization 
Figure 6 shows a set of 2D SAXS/WAXD patterns of shear-oriented PLLA-b-PE 
subjected to a one-stage crystallization process at Tc = 97 oC (similar scattering 
patterns were observed for Tc = 80 oC). The sample was directly cooled from 190 °C 
to the prescribed crystallization temperature to induce simultaneous and competing 
crystallization of PLLA and PE blocks. The 2D SAXS pattern was qualitatively 
identical to those obtained for the two-stage crystallization, but the interlamellar 
distance observed upon one-stage crystallization was slightly smaller. This minor 
discrepancy was attributed to the competition between crystallization rate of the 
leading block and the driving force of the microphase separation.44 However, it was 
clear that both crystallization conditions eventually introduced an inappreciable 
perturbation of the melt morphology, as the lamellar microdomains were still highly 
(essentially identical scattering patterns were observed for lower Tcs), respectively. As 
can be seen that when the system was crystallized with an even larger undercooling 
(i.e., Tc ≤ 60 oC), the diffraction peaks of PLLA disappeared in all WAXD patterns. 
This result reflected that our quenching procedure was efficient, such that PLLA block 
could not crystallize immediately upon quenching from 190 oC to low crystallization 
temperatures (Tc < TgPLLA) and finally vitrified in the glassy state. For 45 ≤ Tc ≤ 60 oC 
(see Figure 8b,d), PE crystals tend to show homogeneous orientation sandwiched 
between the glassy PLLA layers; however, the ring-like WAXD patterns of PE 
crystals were observed over a broad range of -50 ≤ Tc ≤ 40 oC or for the sample 
directly quenched into liquid nitrogen from the melt (as shown in Figure 9b,d), 
indicating that nearly random orientation of the PE crystals was produced between the 
glassy PLLA layers. It is worth noting that PE crystals still exhibited homogeneous 
orientation at Tc ranging from 60 to 45 oC (< TgPLLA) and started to show random 
orientation at Tc ≤ 40 oC, this result strongly indicated that the onset of random 
orientation in PE microdomain was not related to the Tg of the covalently bonded 
PLLA block. As a result, such random orientation should stem from the extremely 
high nucleation density but not the transition from soft to hard confinement exerted by 
the neighboring PLLA blocks. This observation agrees with the previous finding for 
PLLA-b-PS system by Ho et al. showing  that the crystal orientation was not 
was always annealed at 120 oC to allow PLLA crystallization to saturation before 
cooling to the prescribed Tc to induce PE crystallization; therefore, the orientation of 
PLLA crystals thus formed was stable, essentially unaffected by the subsequent 
crystallization of PE block.  With decreasing Tc the value of f of PE (the value of f of 
PE lies above 0.5 and is close to that of PLLA; but in the text we say that they show 
mutually perpendicular orientation, why ?) changed slightly with decreasing Tc at 45 ≤ 
Tc ≤ 60 oC, but it increased abruptly across 40 ~ 45 oC. This revealed that, with 
decreasing Tc, PE crystal orientation changed abruptly from homogeneous to random 
at Tc = 40 ~ 45 oC. For one-stage crystallization, the value of f for PLLA remained 
approximately constant at 80 ≤ Tc ≤ 97 oC, but it decreased sharply across 70 ~ 80 oC 
with decreasing Tc, indicating that the crystal orientation transformed abruptly from 
homeotropic to random. When Tc was lower than 60 oC (where Tc < TgPLLA), the 
diffractions of PLLA crystals were not observable in all WAXD patterns since PLLA 
block was vitrified in the glassy state. The results demonstrated that the 
transformation of PE crystal orientation with respect to Tc in one-stage crystallization 
was quite similar to that found in two-stage crystallization, where the crystals did not 
show preferred orientation when Tc was lower than 45 oC. In the Tc range where the 
PE crystal orientation is random, why is the value of f for 2-stage crystallization larger 
than that for 1-stage crystallization.  If the orientation is completely random, then the 
occurred by cooling from the melt (cf. Figure 7b) or by heading from the glassy state 
(see Figure 11b). The random crystal orientation of both PLLA and PE crystalline 
stems is schematically illustrated in Figure 11e. On the other hand, once the cold 
crystallization temperature was increased to 90 oC, the homeotropic orientation of 
PLLA crystals was recovered as evidenced by the preferred orientation of (110)/(200) 
and (203) diffractions (Figure S1). The corresponding relative crystal orientations of 
PLLA and PE revetred back to the orthogonal type, as represented in Figure 5e. 
Table 1 summarizes the dependence of crystal orientation on the thermal history 
and crystallization temperature with respect to the lamellar normal. Comparing our 
results with the literature results for the corresponding PLLA- or PE-containing 
crystalline-amorphous (C-A) diblocks (e.g., PLLA-b-PS, PLLA-b-PS/PEO-b-PS 
blends, PE-b-PS, PE-b-PVCH, PE-b-PEE, PE-b-PEP, PE-b-PDLLA etc.)10-16,48, we 
found that the preferred crystal orientations of both PLLA and PE blocks in the 
present double-crystalline PLLA-b-PE system were identical to those of the two 
blocks in their respective C-A systems. In other words, PLLA crystals normally 
displayed homeotropic orientation whereas homogeneous orientation mostly took 
place for PE crystals under the 1-D confinement established by the microphase 
separation in the melt. This observation led us to conclude that it was the strong 
segregation between the two blocks that allowed independent crystallization of each 
orientation to facilitate long-range growth and eventually adopts homeotropic 
orientation. 
At a larger undercooling where the nucleation density becomes quite high (but is 
not exceedingly high to abruptly fill the microdomain with randomly oriented nuclei), 
the growing crystals, which are disk or lamellae in shape, may experience an excluded 
volume interaction when two of them are sufficiently close. This is reminiscent of the 
interaction between discotic liquid crystalline molecules that gives rise to a regular 
stacking of the molecules to form a columnar mesophase. Once this type of 
interaction is significant, the crystals should stack along the lamellar interface to 
generate a homogeneous crystal orientation. 
On basis of our kinetic reasoning, the preferred homogeneous orientation of 
PE-containing diblocks may thus be attributed to the higher nucleation power of PE 
block (comparing to that of PLLA) in the lamellar microdomain. It has been found 
that homogeneous nucleation of PE was able to take place at a relatively small critical 
degree of undercooling (ΔTcr ≈ 40 K)50,51 in comparison to other semi-crystalline 
polymers (e.g. Tcr ≈ 90 K for PEO; Tcr ≈ 100 K for PCL) in block copolymer 
systems.52,53 It is also well known that, even in the bulk, polyethylene has an 
intrinsically high density of active nuclei (of the order of 109 nuclei/cm3, at least 3 
orders of magnitude larger than PEO and PCL).50,54 All of the above suggests that PE 
  
Acknowledgment 
We acknowledge Marc A. Hillmyer for providing the block copolymers used in 
this study. We thank to Kelly Anderson for the synthesis of the block copolymers and 
Marc Rodwogin for his help with an initial morphology determination by SAXS. We 
also thank to the National Synchrotron Radiation Center at BL23A1 and BL17A1 for 
supporting us to carry out all of the experiments. Finally, we acknowledge the 
supports from the National Science Council under Grant NSC 99-2221-E-007-008 
and from the Frontier Center of Fundamental and Applied Sciences of Matters of the 
National Tsing Hua University.  
 
Supporting information available: The 2D SAXS/WAXD patterns of shear-oriented 
PLLA-b-PE subjected to a one-stage crystallization process followed by reheating to a 
temperature higher than TgPLLA. The system was directly quenched from 190 oC into 
liquid nitrogen to allow for PE crystallization followed by reheating to TrePLLA = 90 oC 
to induce crystallization of PLLA blocks from the glassy state. This information is 
available free of charge via the Internet at http://pubs.acs.org. 
 
2321-2323. 
(12) Kofinas, P.; Cohen, R. E. Macromolecules 1994, 27, 3002-3008. 
(13) Hamely, I. W.; Fairclough, J. P. A.; Terrill, N. J.; Ryan, A. J.; Lipic, P. M.; Bates, 
F. S.; Towns-Andrews, E. Macromolecules 1996, 29, 8835-8843. 
(14) Myers, S. B.; Register, R. A. Macromolecules 2010, 43, 393-401. 
(15) Ho, R. M.; Lin, F. H. Tsai, C. C.; Lin, C. C.; Ko, B. T.; Hsiao, B. S.; Sics, I. 
Macromolecules 2004, 37, 5985-5994. 
(16) Chu, C. Y.; Chen, H. L.; Hsiao, M. S.; Chen, J. H.; Nandan, B. Macromolecules 
2010, 43, 3376-3382. 
(17) Sun, Y. S.; Chung, T. M.; Li, Y. J., Ho, R. M.; Ko, B. T.; Jeng, U. S.; Lotz, B. 
Macromolecules 2006, 39, 5782-5788. 
(18) Quiram, D. J.; Register, R. A.; Marchand, G. R. Macromolecules 1997, 30, 
4551-4558. 
(19) Loo, Y. L.; Register, R. A.; Adamson, D. H. Macromolecules 2000, 33, 
8361-8366. 
(20) Huang, P.; Zhu, L.; Cheng, S. Z. D.; Ge, Q.; Quirk, R. P.; Thomas, E. L.; Lotz, B.; 
Hsiao, B. S.; Liu, L.; Yeh, F. Macromolecules 2001, 34, 6649-6657. 
(21) Nojima, S.; Ohguma. Y.; Kadena, K.; Ishizone, T.; Iwasaki, Y.; Yamaguchi, K. 
Macromolecules 2010, 43, 3916-3923. 
Schmalz, H.; Abetz, V. Macromolecules 2008, 41, 879-889. 
(33) Cao, W. Y.; Tashiro, K.; Hanesaka, M.; Takeda, S.; Masunaga, H.; Sasaki, S.; 
Takata, M. J. Phys. Chem. B 2009, 113, 2338-2346. 
(34) Nojima, S.; Ono, M.; Ashida, T. Polym. J. 1992, 24, 1271-1280. 
(35) Gan, Z. H.; Jiang, B. Z.; Zhang, J. J. Appl. Polym. Sci. 1996, 59, 961-967. 
(36) Bogdanov, B.; Vidts, A.; Schacht, E.; Berghmans, H. Macromolecules 1999, 32, 
726-731. 
(37) Shiomi, T.; Imai, K.; Takenaka, K.; Takeshita, H.; Hayashi, H.; Tezuka, Y. 
Polymer 2001, 42, 3233-3239. 
(38) Albuerne, J.; Marquez, L.; Müller, A. J.; Raquez, J. M.; Degee, P.; Dubois, P.; 
Castelletto, V.; Hamley, I. W. Macromolecules 2003, 36, 1633-1644. 
(39) Takeshita, H.; Fukumoto, K.; Ohnishi, T.; Ohkubo, T.; Miya, M.; Takenaka, K.; 
Shiomi, T. Polymer 2006, 47, 8210-8218. 
(40) Nojima, S.; Fukagawa, Y.; Ikeda, H. Macromolecules 2009, 42, 9515-9522. 
(41) Wang, Y. B.; Hillmyer, M. A. J. Polym. Sci., Part A: Polym. Chem. 2001, 39, 
2755-2766. 
(42) Müller, A. J.; Castillo, R. V.; Hillmyer, M. Macromol. Symp. 2006, 242, 174-181. 
(43) Müller, A. J.; Lorenzo, A. T.; Castillo, R. V.; Arnal, M. L.; Boschetti-De-Fierro, 
A.; Abetz, V. Macromol. Symp. 2006, 245, 154-160. 
Macromol. Chem. Phys. 1998, 199, 2275-2298. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. The 2D WAXD patterns of shear-oriented PLLA-b-PE subjected to a two-stage crystallization process. 
The system was cooled from 190 to 120 °C to allow PLLA crystallization followed by cooling to TcPE = 97 oC to 
induce PE crystallization (similar scattering patterns were observed for TcPE = 45 ~ 80 oC). (a) tangential-view; (b) 
radial-view; (c) top-view. The subscript L and E marked in the (hkl) diffraction planes signify PLLA and PE, 
respectively. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
                                                                                             
 
 
(a) 
0 60 120 180 240 300 360
101
102
103
104
105
106
(002)
(200)
R
el
at
iv
e 
In
te
ns
ity
 (a
.u
.)
Azimuthal Angle (degrees)
(203)
    PLLA 
(110)/(200)
  PE 
(110)
(b)
(002)L
(110)E (110)/(200)L 
(010)L 
(200)E
(203)L
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5. The 2D SAXS/WAXD patterns of shear-oriented PLLA-b-PE subjected to a two-stage crystallization 
process with a large undercooling for the second stage. The system was cooled from 190 to 120 °C to allow PLLA 
crystallization followed by cooling to TcPE = 40 oC to induce PE crystallization (similar scattering characteristics 
were observed for TcPE = -50 ~ 30 oC or direct immersion into liquid nitrogen). (a) tangential-view SAXS pattern; 
(b) tangential-view WAXD pattern; (c) top-view SAXS pattern; (d) top-view WAXD pattern; (e) schematic 
illustration of homeotropic orientation of PLLA crystals and the random orientation of PE crystals in the lamellar 
microdomain. The subscript L and E marked in the (hkl) diffraction planes signify PLLA and PE, respectively. 
 
 
 
 
(e) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7. The 2D SAXS/WAXD patterns of shear-oriented PLLA-b-PE subjected to a one-stage crystallization 
process. The system was directly quenched from 190 to Tc = 70 oC to induce competitive crystallization of PLLA 
and PE blocks. (a) tangential-view SAXS pattern; (b) tangential-view WAXD pattern; (c) top-view SAXS pattern; 
(d) top-view WAXD pattern; (e) schematic illustration of random orientation of PLLA crystals and the 
homogeneous orientation of PE crystals in the lamellar microdomain. The subscript L and E marked in the (hkl) 
diffraction planes signify PLLA and PE, respectively. 
 
 
 
 
(e) 
 
 
Is it possible to add error bar here (just like that in C-A paper)? 
 
-120 -100 -80 -60 -40 -20 0 20 40 60 80 100 120
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
0.45
0.50
0.55
0.60
0.65
0.70
 Two-stage (110)/(200)L
 One-stage (110)/(200)L
 Two-stage (200)E
 One-stage (200)E
X Axis Title
f(1
10
)/(
20
0)
L
-0.28
-0.26
-0.24
-0.22
-0.20
-0.18
-0.16
-0.14
-0.12
-0.10
-0.08
-0.06
f(200)E
 
Figure 10. Herman’s orientation function (f) calculated using the azimuthal distributions of the intensities of 
(110)/(200) and (200) diffractions for PLLA and PE crystals, respectively, as a function of crystallization 
temperature used for PE crystallization in two-stage crystallization (where PLLA crystallization was always 
induced at 120 oC) and for both PLLA and PE crystallizations in one-stage crystallization.  . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. The dependence of crystal orientation on thermal history and crystallization temperature with respect to 
the lamellar normal. 
 
 
OO⊥40 oC
////⊥45 oC
Sample
Temperature
PLLA-b-PE
Two-stage crystallization One-stage crystallization
PLLA PE PLLA PE
97 oC ⊥ // ⊥ //
80 oC ⊥ // ⊥ //
70 oC ⊥ // O //
60 oC ⊥ // //
30 oC ⊥ O O
10 oC ⊥ O O
-10 oC ⊥ O O
-30 oC ⊥ O O
-50 oC ⊥ O O
Liquid N2 ⊥ O O
Liquid N2 reheat to 70 oC O O
Liquid N2 reheat to 90 oC ⊥ O
 
 
Note:   denotes the homeotropic crystal orientation, where the c-axis orientation is parallel to nˆ ; // signals the 
homogeneous crystal orientation, where the c-axis orientation is perpendicular to lamellar normal nˆ ; O indicates 
isotropic orientation, where the c-axis orientation is randomly distributed with respect to nˆ . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
restricted within the C microdomains surrounded by the hard glassy matrix formed by 
A block.6-11 Such a confinement effect is called “hard confinement”. In the case where 
TgA < Tc < TODT (where the amorphous phase remains soft upon crystallization), the 
crystallization of C block may still be effectively confined once the segregation 
strength of two blocks is high, and the amorphous matrix is said to impose a “soft 
confinement” to the crystallization.12-18 Both the hard and soft confinements have 
drastic impacts on the overall crystallization kinetics.12-15 On the other hand, when the 
crystallization of C block takes place in the weakly-segregated system, the 
crystallization process may break out of the initial microdomains to form crystalline 
extended lamellar domains.19-23 
Most research of crystalline diblock copolymers has focused on the C-A diblocks, 
while the systems containing two crystalline blocks (i.e., the double-crystalline 
dibocks or C-C diblocks) have started to attracted attention over the past decade.   
The crystallization behavior and nanostructure formation of this type of system are 
expected to be much more complex because of the additional competition between the 
crystallization events of the two crystalline components.24,  25 If the two blocks (C1 
and C2) exhibit largely different melting points (Tmc1 and Tmc2 with Tmc1 > Tmc2), a 
two-stage crystallization history may be implemented, where the diblock is first 
cooled to Tmc2 < Tc < Tmc1 to induce crystallization of C1 block followed by cooling to 
4 
transformation of C-C diblocks during isothermal crystallization has indeed not been 
investigated in detail. To comprehensively resolve this issue, the simultaneous 
small-angle X-ray scattering/wide-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS/WAXS) technique 
with the synchrotron radiation source was employed here to promptly collect the data 
during the crystallization process.  Here, the SAXS/WAXS measurements were 
conducted with a temperature-jump cooling system, which allowed very rapid cooling 
and thermal equilibration at the prescribed Tc within three seconds.  In addition to 
the two-stage crystallization history that has been frequently implemented for the C-C 
diblocks,29-31 we further concentrated on the competitiveness of the two crystallization 
events in the one-stage crystallization process, which has been rarely studied for the 
systems with the two crystalline blocks exhibiting largely different melting points.   
In this study, we mainly investigate the kinetics of the crystallization as well as 
the nanostructure formation of a double-crystalline block copolymer. The 
simultaneous SAXS/WAXS experiments allow both the structural formation and the 
crystallinity development during the crystallization under different conditions to be 
monitored concomitantly. Quantitative analysis of the scattering patterns will provide 
valuable insights into the kinetics and the mechanism of crystallization and 
nanostructure development in this unique type of crystalline soft material. In 
particular, the interplay between the crystallization processes of the two crystalline 
6 
leading crystalline sPP component occurred in the microphase-separated melt, such 
that the crystallization-induced morphological perturbation was governed by the 
balance between the crystallization driving force of sPP and the segregation power 
that tends to stabilize the melt mesophase.  Moreover, the composition of the 
sPP-b-PCL under study was highly asymmetric with the minority sPP blocks formed 
cylindrical microdomains dispersed in the continuous PCL matrix. In contrast to the 
previously studied symmetric PLLA-b-PEO, it is interesting to show that the 
crystallization of the minority sPP block (which led to a moderate level of crystallinity) 
could still influence the stretching of the majority PCL block so as to affect its 
crystallization kinetics. This novel phenomenon may provide significant insights into 
the strategy for controlling the crystallization-induced nanostructure formation of this 
type of material.  
 
Experimental Section 
Materials. 
The detailed synthetic method for preparations of sPP-b-PCL was described in 
the previous report.44 In brief, the diblock copolymer was synthesized by controlled 
ring-opening polymerization of ε-caprolactone using aluminum alkoxide-terminated 
sPP as the macroinitiator. The aluminum alkoxide-terminated sPP macroinitiator (Mn 
8 
were further dried in vacuum at 60 °C for 2 h and then at room temperature for four 
days for complete solvent removal. 
 
Differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) measurement.  
DSC experiments were carried out by a Perkin-Elmer DSC-7 instrument to study 
the isothermal crystallization and melting behavior of the diblock copolymer. Samples 
of ca. 5 mg were encapsulated in aluminum pans. The calibration was performed with 
indium and hexatricontan, and all tests were run using ultrapure nitrogen as purge gas. 
The isothermal crystallization experiments were carried out for both sPP and 
PCL blocks within sPP-b-PCL. In order to investigate the crystallization kinetics of 
sPP boock, the sample was first heated to 170 oC (which is at least 40 oC higher than 
the nominal melting points of sPP and PCL blocks (i.e., TmsPP and TmPCL) but lower 
than TODT of sPP-b-PCL) and kept at this temperature for 10 min to erase the previous 
thermal history. The sample was then cooled (at 80 °C/min) to the prescribed 
isothermal crystallization temperature TcsPP (at TmPCL < TcsPP < TmsPP), and the 
crystallization process of sPP was monitored as a function of time.  
To evaluate the effect of the crystallization temperature of sPP block on the 
kinetics of the subsequent crystallization of PCL block, the sample was heated to 170 
oC and annealed at this temperature for 10 min to remove the previous thermal history, 
10 
vector range of 8 ~ 17.5 nm-1. The WAXS angular scale was calibrated using silicon, 
sodalite and high-density polyethylene. 
 
SAXS/WAXS data analysis 
The SAXS intensity profiles obtained from the time-resolved experiment were 
further used to calculate the normalized scattering invariants (Q) as a function of time 
during the crystallization process via 






0
2
0
2
);(
);(
)(
dqqtqI
dqqtqI
tQ
 
where the last data profile collected during crystallization at a given Tc was taken as 
the SAXS profile at t→∞. Since the experimentally accessible q range is finite, 
extrapolation to both low and high q is necessary for the integration in above equation. 
In the present work, extrapolation to zero q was accomplished by applying the 
Debye-Bueche model,46, 47 whereas the Porod-Ruland model48 was used for extension 
to large q. 
Analogous to obtaining the relative invariant from SAXS profiles, the degrees of 
crystallinity (Xc) of sPP and PCL blocks were determined from the WAXS profiles by 
integrating the area under the crystalline diffraction peaks (Ac) and the amorphous 
halo (Aa), via 
12 
1. Melt structure and crystallization-induced structure perturbation 
sPP-b-PCL is a crystalline-crystalline system with both sPP and PCL blocks 
being crystallizable.  Here we have examined the crystallization process under two 
types of cooling histories from the microphase-separated melt. The first type is called 
“two-stage crystallization”, where the system was cooled from 170 °C (which is 
higher than TmPCL and TmsPP) to TcsPP (which is higher than TmPCL ≈ 55 oC but lower 
than TmsPP ≈ 110 oC) to allow sPP crystallization followed by cooling to TcPCL (which 
is lower than TmPCL) to induce PCL crystallization. The other type is called “one-stage 
crystallization”, where the system was directly quenched from 170 oC to Tc, at which 
sPP and PCL blocks competed to crystallize. 
We first examine the melt structure of the sPP-b-PCL and the perturbation of 
melt mesophase induced by crystallization. Figure 1 shows the SAXS profiles of 
sPP-b-PCL collected at different temperatures in a two-stage cooling process. At 170 
°C where both sPP and PCL blocks were in the melt state (TmPCL < TmsPP < 170 °C < 
TODT), the SAXS profile showed multiple scattering peaks with the position ratio of 
1:31/2:41/2:71/2:91/2. This indicated that the sPP-b-PCL exhibited a hexagonally-packed 
cylinder morphology, where the minority sPP blocks formed the cylindrical 
microdomains dispersed in the PCL matrix. The interdomain distance (D) calculated 
from the primary peak position was 18.5 nm and the average radius (R) of the sPP 
14 
diblock copolymers with minor crystalline component.19-23 In this case, the driving 
force of crystallization overwhelmed that stabilizing the melt mesophase due to 
relatively weak segregation strength of the copolymer, such that the crystal growth 
front broke out the cylindrical domains to form extended lamellar domains with a 
larger interdomain distance. 
The breakout crystallization of sPP block can be further demonstrated by 
monitoring the development of crystallinity during the crystallization at 80 oC using 
DSC. The isothermal crystallization exotherm of sPP block in sPP-b-PCL crystallized 
at 80 oC was shown in the inset of Figure S1. The data were quantitatively analyzed 
by the Avrami equation:50 
Xc (t) =1 - exp(-Ktn) 
where Xc (t) is the relative crystallinity accumulated as of time t; the exponent n 
depends on the nucleation mechanism and the crystal growth geometry; K is the 
overall transformation rate constant. The Avrami analysis51 (see Figure S1 of 
Supporting information) showed that the development of crystallinity followed a 
sigmoidal curve corresponding to the Avrami exponent of ca. 2.3. This means that the 
crystallization was predominantly initiated by heterogeneous nucleation followed by 
long-range crystal growth proceeding through breaking out the originally formed 
cylindrical microdomains in the melt state.9  Moreover, our previous study revealed 
16 
scattering peaks associated with hexagonally-packed sPP cylinder morphology in the 
melt state (cf. the red curve in Figure 2a). When the system was just brought to 80 oC, 
the SAXS peaks grew in intensity and shifted to lower q, corresponding to an increase 
of D by 1.85 nm (cf. the blue curve in Figure 2a). Since the swelling of D took place 
before the development of sPP crystallinity, it should arise from the increasing 
stretching of both amorphous sPP and PCL blocks normal to the domain interface due 
to the increase of χ on lowering temperature.  
Crystallization of sPP block occurred at ca. 60s as revealed by the WAXS 
profiles (see dark cyan curve in Figure 2b). At the same time, a new peak emerged at 
0.255 nm-1 in the corresponding SAXS profile and its intensity grew progressively in 
the expense of the original primary peak at 60s   t   300s. This fact can be seen 
more clearly by the vertically shifted 1-D SAXS profiles and the time evolution of 
peak intensity at 0.255 nm-1, as presented in Figure S2a and Figure S2b of the 
Supporting Information, respectively. A set of scattering peaks with integral position 
started to appear at 140s, signaling the morphological transformation from 
hexagonally-packed cylinder to lamellae induced by sPP crystallization. The 
crystallinity of sPP was found to reach the saturated value of 36% after 300s. 
    When the system was subsequently quenched to 41.5 oC, the crystallization of 
PCL blocks occurred at 140s, as evidenced by the WAXS profiles (cf. the orange 
18 
the system was subsequently quenched to 41.5 oC, PCL block was found to start 
crystallizing at 140s after reaching the temperature and finished its crystallization 
after 720s. The onset of PCL crystallization was concomitantly accompanied with an 
abrupt increase of invariant, which was attributable to the enhancement of the electron 
density contrast.  
    Figure 3a and b show the time-resolved SAXS/WAXS results of sPP-b-PCL, 
subjecting to a two-stage crystallization with larger undercooling for the first stage, 
where the sample was quenched from 170 oC to 60 oC to allow sPP crystallization, 
followed by quenching to 41.5 oC for PCL crystallization. In Figure 3b, it can be seen 
that upon reaching 60 oC, the crystallization of sPP block took place immediately at 
40s (cf. dark cyan curve) and the crystallinity reached saturation after 120s. At 40s   
t   60s, the new SAXS peak at 0.27 nm-1 grew in expense of the original SAXS 
peak associated with the melt morphology (see dark cyan curve in Figure 3a), 
indicating again that the sPP crystallization disrupted the melt structure and 
transformed it into a lamellar morphology. Such a process completed within just 60s. 
It is noted that the high-order peaks associated with the crystalline lamellar 
morphology were not clearly observed in the SAXS profiles, implying the poorer 
coherent order of the lamellar stacking due to very rapid sPP crystallization at the 
larger undercooling. As the system was further quenched to 41.5 oC to induce PCL 
20 
    To confirm that the crystallization kinetics of PCL block was strongly affected by 
TcsPP of the prior crystallization of sPP block, the isothermal crystallization of PCL 
block was systematically studied by DSC. We first allowed the sPP block to 
crystallize at a prescribed temperature (i.e., TcsPP = 60 ~ 110 oC) until saturation, then 
the temperature was lowered rapidly (at 80 oC/min) to 41.5 oC to induce PCL 
crystallization. The exotherms observed during PCL crystallization are displayed in 
Figure 4a. It can be seen that when the sPP block was pre-crystallized at the higher 
temperature, the crystallization rate of the PCL block at 41.5 oC was faster. For 
instance, the crystallinity of PCL block was found to reach almost saturation after 
12.5 min, but it still kept growing after 15 min when sPP block was pre-crystallized at 
TcsPP = 80 and 60 oC, respectively. This observation is consistent with the 
time-revolved SAXS/WAXS results presented in Figure 2c and 3c. The data obtained 
from Figure 4a was further quantitatively analyzed by the Avrami equation.50 The 
overall crystallization rate, expressed as the inverse of the crystallization half-time 
(1/τ50%), of the PCL block is shown in Figure 4b as a function of TcsPP. The overall 
crystallization kinetics of PCL block was seen to increase clearly with increasing 
TcsPP.  
The subsequent DSC heating scans of sPP-b-PCL after sPP and PCL block have 
crystallized at TcsPP and 41.5 oC, respectively, are displayed in Figure 4c. The heating 
22 
subsequently cooled to 41.5 oC, a small number of granular objects with stronger 
birefringence formed due to the crystallization of PCL block. As the crystallization 
proceeded further, a bust of many other nuclei occurred followed by prompt growth 
(with the growth rate of G = 18.0 μm/min), such that the region under observation 
was quickly filled by PCL crystals within 484s. However, when the sPP block was 
pre-crystallized at 60 oC for 20 min (the sPP birefringence pattern was similar to that 
found at 80 oC), the kinetics of the subsequent PCL crystallization became quite 
different. It can be seen that the occurrence of the crystalline texture of PCL was 
deferred to 336s; moreover, both the nucleation density and the growth rate (G = 15.4 
μm/min) were found to significantly retard as compared to the case for TcsPP = 80 oC. 
This fact strongly illustrated that the crystallization of the leading component (i.e., 
sPP block) affected both the nucleation rate and the crystal growth kinetics for the 
subsequent crystallization of the other block. The prior crystallization of sPP block at 
higher TcsPP was found to promote the nucleation rate more pronouncedly than the 
growth rate of the PCL crystallization. 
Our time-resolved SAXS/WAXS, DSC and POM results have thus demonstrated 
that the crystallization rate of PCL block was strongly influenced by the 
crystallization temperature of the leading crystalline component (i.e., sPP) in the 
two-stage crystallization process. This type of “interactive crystallization kinetics” has 
24 
indicating that the PCL blocks did become more stretched after sPP crystallization at 
higher TcsPP. Since the chain stems in the sPP crystals aligned normal to the lamellar 
interface (see Figure S3 and its relevant information in the Supporting Information), 
the formation of thicker sPP crystals at higher TcsPP would swell the lamellar domains 
and hence reduced the cross-sectional areas of the junction points, which then caused 
the PCL blocks to undergo a stronger stretching normal to the interface. Consequently, 
the interactive crystallization behavior exhibited by the present sPP-b-PCL system 
may have the same origin as that associated with the PLLA-b-PEO system. However, 
the interactive crystallization kinetics observed in the present sPP-b-PCL was 
distinguished from that of PLLA-b-PEO in that the crystallization of the leading 
crystalline component (i.e., PLLA) in PLLA-b-PEO occurred from the disordered 
melt, whereas sPP in sPP-b-PCL crystallized from the microphase-separated melt.  
Moreover, our results showed that even though the composition of the leading 
crystalline component (i.e., sPP) was minor, its crystallization (which led to a 
moderate level of crystallinity) was sufficient to influence the stretching of the 
majority lower-melting block (i.e., PCL block), so as to affect its crystallization 
kinetics.  
In addition to the mediation of PCL chain stretching by sPP crystallization, we 
would also like to point out (and then preclude) other possible factors that may cause 
26 
due to larger grain size. However, our POM observation in Figure 5 showed that the 
PCL nucleation density was actually higher for higher TcsPP and it was mainly the 
enhancement of nucleation rate that caused the faster overall crystallization kinetics. 
Consequently, we also precluded the factor associated with the grain size effect and 
concluded that the degree of stretching of PCL blocks influenced by sPP 
crystallization was responsible for the observed interactive crystallization behavior.   
 
3. Crystallization behavior in the one-stage crystallization process 
We now turn our attention to the other type of crystallization history, namely, 
one-stage crystallization. Figure 7a and b show the time-resolved SAXS/WAXS 
profiles of sPP-b-PCL, subjected to the one-stage crystallization by direct quenching 
the diblock from 170 °C to 41.5 °C. Upon cooling to 41.5 °C for 20s, the primary 
peak in the SAXS profile shifted slightly to lower q (see the blue curve in Figure 7a), 
corresponding to an expansion of the interdomain distance between cylindrical 
microdomains of 20.9 nm due to the increase of χ. Meanwhile, a low degree of sPP 
crystallinity was observed in the corresponding WAXS profile (cf. the blue curve in 
Figure 7b). Such a low crystallinity gave rise to a vague peak hidden at 0.277 nm-1 in 
the corresponding SAXS profile (as indicated by an arrow over the blue curve) under 
the primary peak due to the breakout crystallization. After 40s where the crystallinity 
28 
by the isothermal crystallization experiment of DSC, as shown in Figure S5). If the 
degree of PCL chain stretching dominated the crystallization kinetics, the 
crystallization rate of PCL block should have been slower for TcsPP = 41.5 oC 
compared to the case of TcsPP = 60 oC. The discrepancy may be explained by 
considering the stronger hindrance to the breakout of melt structure induced by sPP 
crystallization at the relatively low Tcs adopted in the one-stage crystallization. 
Although the SAXS profile indicated a significant morphological breakout upon sPP 
crystallization at 41.5 oC, the degree of structural perturbation should not be the same 
as that attained in the two-stage process considering that the saturated crystallinity of 
sPP at 41.5 oC was obviously lower (0.22 comparing to the value of 0.31 attained at 
TcsPP = 60 oC). It is proposed that at TcsPP ≤ 41.5 oC, a significant portion of sPP 
blocks remained confined within the highly discrete microdomains (e.g. the original 
cylindrical microdomains or the domains established by local or short-range 
coalescence of the cylinders), such that they were uncrystallizable at the prescribed 
TcsPP because the undercooling was not large enough to induce the homogeneous 
nucleation. The PCL blocks attached to these discrete domains thus still formed the 
continuous matrix phase and hence crystallized more rapidly than the case when they 
were confined within the lamellar domains generated by the breakout crystallization 
of sPP at higher TcsPP. Moreover, since the sPP crystallinity attained at 41.5 oC was 
30 
attained here was significantly suppressed to 0.17 (cf. Figure 8c), indicating that the 
long-range breakout of the sPP mcirodomains induced by crystallization at 30 oC was 
even more difficult.    
Figure 9a and b show the time-resolved SAXS/WAXS profiles of sPP-b-PCL 
collected by direct quenching the diblock from 170 °C to 10 °C. PCL block was found 
to start crystallizing when the temperature was just brought to 10 oC and its 
crystallinity promptly reached saturation after 60s. However, the crystallization of sPP 
block did not take place within the maximum data collection time (i.e., 15 min), as the 
crystalline diffraction peaks of sPP were absent in the WAXS profiles (cf. Figure 9b). 
Upon reaching 10 oC, the primary SAXS peak shifted slightly to lower q as compared 
to that in the melt state, and two higher-order peaks with the position ratio of 31/2 and 
71/2 were still observable (see the blue curve in Figure 9a), indicating that the 
hexagonally-packed cylinder morphology was still preserved. The shift of the primary 
peak corresponded to an increase of D by 3.1 nm, which was attributed to the 
increasing stretching of the amorphous sPP and PCL blocks due to the increase of χ 
by lowering the temperature to 10 oC . Figure 9c shows the dependences of invariant 
and crystallinities of sPP and PCL blocks on crystallization time. The PCL 
crystallization before 60s led to an abrupt increase of invariant. It is worth noting that 
the primary SAXS peak slightly broadened without changing the position and the 
32 
which in turn enhanced the primary nucleation rate associated with the PCL 
crystallization. 
In the one-stage crystallization process, decreasing the crystallization 
temperature was found to enhance the competitiveness of sPP and PCL crystallization. 
However, the degree of morphological perturbation induced by the breakout 
crystallization of sPP block became increasingly difficult with decreasing Tc, such that 
a significant portion of sPP blocks remained confined within the highly discrete 
microdomains which were either the original cylindrical domains formed in the melt 
or the domains established by local coalescence of the sPP cylinders. These sPP 
blocks remained uncrystallizable at the Tcs studied because the corresponding 
undercoolings were not large enough to induce the homogeneous nucleation. 
 
Acknowledgement 
We gratefully appreciate Prof. Stephen Z. D. Cheng at The University of Akron 
for the valuable discussions and assistance in the DSC isothermal crystallization 
experiment. We acknowledge the supports of the National Science Council, Taiwan 
under Grant NSC 99-2221-E-007-008 and the Frontier Center of Fundamental and 
Applied Sciences of Matters of the National Tsing Hua University. We would also like 
to thank the National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center for supporting the X-ray 
scattering experiments at beamline BL23A1 and BL17A1.. 
34 
Schmalz, H.; Abetz, V.; Laredo, E.; Müller, A. J. Macromolecules 2001, 34, 
7973-7982. 
[8] Zhu, L.; Cheng, S. Z. D.; Calhoun, B. H.; Ge, Q.; Quirk, R. P.; Thomas, E. L.; 
Hsiao, B. S.; Yeh, F.; Lotz, B. Polymer 2001, 42, 9121-9131. 
[9) Loo, Y. L.; Register, R. A.; Ryan, A. J. Macromolecules 2002, 35, 2365-2374. 
[10] Müller, A. J.; Balsamo, V.; Arnal, M. L.; Jakob, T.; Schmalz, H.; Abetz, V. 
Macromolecules 2002, 35, 3048-3058. 
[11] Ho, R. M.; Lin, F. H. Tsai, C. C.; Lin, C. C.; Ko, B. T.; Hsiao, B. S.; Sics, I. 
Macromolecules 2004, 37, 5985-5994. 
[12] Chen, H. L.; Hsiao, S. C.; Lin, T. L.; Yamauchi, K.; Hasegawa, H.; Hashimoto, T. 
Macromolecules 2001, 34, 671-674. 
[13] Chen, H. L.; Wu, J. C.; Lin, T. L.; Lin, J. S. Macromolecules 2001, 34, 
6936-6944. 
[14] Loo, Y. L.; Register, R. A.; Ryan, A. J. Macromolecules 2002, 35, 2365-2374. 
[15] Loo, Y. L.; Register, R. A.; Ryan, A. J. Phys. Rev. Lett. 2000, 84, 4120-4123. 
[16] Loo, Y. L.; Register, R. A.; Adamson, D. H. Macromolecules 2000, 33, 
8361-8366. 
[17] Loo, Y. L.; Register, R. A.; Ryan, A. J.; Dee, G. T. Macromolecules 2001, 34, 
8968-8977. 
36 
[30] Nojima, S.; Akutsu, Y.; Akaba, M.; Tanimoto, S. Polymer 2005, 46, 4060-4067. 
[31] Hamley, I. W.; Castelletto, V.; Castillo, R. V.; Müller, A. J.; Martin, C. M.; Pollet, 
E.; Dubois, P. Macromolecules 2005, 38, 463-472. 
[32] Castillo, R. V.; Arnal, M. L.; Müller, A. J.; Hamley, I. W.; Castelletto, V.; 
Schmalz, H.; Abetz, V. Macromolecules 2008, 41, 879-889. 
[33] Cao, W. Y.; Tashiro, K.; Hanesaka, M.; Takeda, S.; Masunaga, H.; Sasaki, S.; 
Takata, M. J. Phys. Chem. B 2009, 113, 2338-2346. 
[34] Cong, Y. H.; Liu, H.; Wang, D. L.; Zhao, B. J.; Yan, T. Z.; Li, L. B.; Chen, W.; 
Zhong, Z. Y.; Lin, M. C.; Chen, H. L.; Yang, C. L. Macromolecules 2011, 44, 
5878-5882. 
[35] Nojima, S.; Ono, M.; Ashida, T. Polym. J. 1992, 24, 1271-1280. 
[36] Gan, Z. H.; Jiang, B. Z.; Zhang, J. J. Appl. Polym. Sci. 1996, 59, 961-967. 
[37] Bogdanov, B.; Vidts, A.; Schacht, E.; Berghmans, H. Macromolecules 1999, 32, 
726-731. 
[38] Shiomi, T.; Imai, K.; Takenaka, K.; Takeshita, H.; Hayashi, H.; Tezuka, Y. 
Polymer 2001, 42, 3233-3239. 
[39] Albuerne, J.; Marquez, L.; Müller, A. J.; Raquez, J. M.; Degee, P.; Dubois, P.; 
Castelletto, V.; Hamley, I. W. Macromolecules 2003, 36, 1633-1644. 
[40] Takeshita, H.; Fukumoto, K.; Ohnishi, T.; Ohkubo, T.; Miya, M.; Takenaka, K.; 
38 
[53] Chatani, Y.; Okita,, Y.; Tadokoro, H.; Yamashita, Y. Polym. J. 1970, 1, 555-562. 
[54] Crescenzi, V.; Manzini, G.; Calzolari, G.; Borri, C. Eur. Polym. J. 1972, 8, 
449-463. 
[55] Li, Y.; Ma, Y.; Li, J.; Jiang, X. M.; Hu, W. B. J. Chem. Phys. 2012, 136, 104906. 
[56] Lotz, B.; Lovinger, A. J.; Cais, R. E. Macromolecules 1988, 21, 2375-2382.  
[57] Lovinger, A. J.; Lotz, B.; Davis, D. D.; Padden, F. J. Macromolecules 1993, 26, 
3494-3503 
[58] De Rosa, C.; Corradini, P. Macromolecules 1993, 26, 5711-5718. 
[59] Bittiger, H.; Marchessault, R. H.; Niegisch, W. D. Acta Crystallogr. 1970, B26, 
1923-1927. 
[60] Hu, H. L.; Dorset, D. L. Macromolecules 1990, 23, 4604-4607.
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41.5 oC 
80 oC 
(b) 
41.5 oC
80 oC
3 
2 
1 
1 
71/2 
31/2 
(a) 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41.5 oC
60 oC
(a) 
1 
71/2 
31/2 
41.5 oC 
60 oC 
(b) 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
60 70 80 90 100 110
0.08
0.12
0.16
0.20
0.24
0.28
0.32
0.36
0.40
1
/

5
0
%
P
C
L
 
(
m
i
n
-
1
)
TsPPc  (oC)
(b) (a) 
5 10 15 20 25 30
 TsPPc  = 60 
oC
 TsPPc  = 70 
oC
 TsPPc  = 80 
oC
 TsPPc  = 90 
oC
 TsPPc  = 100 
oC
 TsPPc  = 110 
oC
H
e
a
t
 
F
l
o
w
 
(
m
W
)
,
 
E
n
d
o
 
U
p
Time (min)
0
.
3
 
m
W
46 
 
Figure 5. Polarized optical micrographs of sPP-b-PCL subjected to the indicated two-stage crystallization history. The middle micrograph 
indicates the initial melt state at 170 oC. The micrographs from middle to left to up to right correspond to the same crystallization history as that 
employed for Figure 2 (i.e., 170 oC 80 oC (for sPP crystallization)  41.5 oC (for PCL crystallization)). The micrographs from middle to right 
to down to left correspond to the same crystallization history as that employed for Figure 3 (i.e., 170 oC 60 oC (for sPP crystallization)  41.5 
oC (for PCL crystallization)). The scale bar represents 50 μm. 
170 oC 80 oC (20 min) 41.5 oC (190s) 
41.5 oC (252s) 41.5 oC (292s) 41.5 oC (320s) 41.5 oC (352s) 41.5 oC (484s) 
41.5 oC (1000s) 41.5 oC (764s) 41.5 oC (674s) 41.5 oC (612s) 41.5 oC (470s) 
41.5 oC (336s) 60 oC (20 min)
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
71/2 
31/2 
(a) (b) 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
71/2 
31/2 
(a) (b) 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
71/2 
31/2 
(a) (b) 
54 
 
2 
 
各種形態之 order-order transition 之動力學路徑，演講中舉了許多實例，如
gyroid-cylinder transition 轉化路徑的預測，即引起相當大的重視。Prof. Stephen 
Cheng演講”Artificial Molecules Based on Giant Atoms: Size Amplification, Function 
Diverification and Self-assembly Manipulations”，主要講述他實驗室運用 C60 及
POSS等奈米尺度之 building block連結成長鏈分子，此時將 C60及 POSS單元視
為一種巨大的’Nano atoms”，因而衍生出許多有趣的物理現象及自組裝結構，此
為高分子與軟物質開闢一個新的研究領域。 Prof. Kenji Tanaka 演
講 ”Time-dependent Heterogeneity in Viscoelastic Properties of Supramolecular 
Systems”，主要講述他發現黏彈性對於高分子鏈擴散特性所產生的明顯影響。 
 
  筆者的講題為 ”Nucleosome-like Structure from Dendrimer-induced DNA 
Compaction”， 主要講述筆者近年來在 DNA-dendrimer錯合物奈米結構之系統性
研究，本研究主要將 DNA與第九代樹枝狀高分子以靜電作用力錯合，利用小角
度 X-光與中子散射揭露 DNA可緊密、規則地纏繞在樹枝高分子上，形成類似核
小體之 beads-on-string結構。藉由所發展之小角度散射圖譜分析技術，我們不僅
能夠擷取這種「似核小體」的結構參數，並可解析「似核小體」單元組成的「似
染色質」纖維的構形。本研究率先揭露 DNA/樹枝高分子錯合物作為模擬核小體
或染色質結構模型系統之可行性與相關之小角度散射分析方法。演講完後，與聽
眾進行簡短之問答，會後九州大學 Prof. Kenji Tanaka主動與筆者針對研究內容作
深入討論，並表達與筆者進行研究合作之興趣。 
感想與建議 
感謝國科會經費的補助，讓筆者得以參加此高水準之研討會，整個過程相當順
利，也有不錯的收穫。高分子物理是瞭解與控制高分子材料形態學及性質之基
礎，仍是高分子領域一門極重要的顯學，國內近年來在高分子物理的研究已有大
幅的進步，特別是許多青年學者的投入，使台灣在此領域的國際能見度逐漸提
升。但國內高分子物理的研究普遍著重在靜態結構方面的研究，跟國外先進國家
相較，對於多尺度結構之動態演化、polymer dynamics及流變學等仍有補強之空
間。另外國內高分子學者著重在實驗之研究，對於理論模擬工具之建立欲運用較
為缺乏，這是為未來在高分子學門之高分子物理子領域可補強之處。高分子科學
與工程的領域也逐漸演化為一門跨學科的專業，國內高分子物理專長之學者與光
電、生醫、能源等領域之學者進行跨領域合作，使相關材料之研發更有效率，也
是一件值得積極推動的工作。 
攜回資料 
研討會會議議程手冊 
2 
 
各種形態之 order-order transition 之動力學路徑，演講中舉了許多實例，如
gyroid-cylinder transition 轉化路徑的預測，即引起相當大的重視。Prof. Stephen 
Cheng演講”Artificial Molecules Based on Giant Atoms: Size Amplification, Function 
Diverification and Self-assembly Manipulations”，主要講述他實驗室運用 C60 及
POSS等奈米尺度之 building block連結成長鏈分子，此時將 C60及 POSS單元視
為一種巨大的’Nano atoms”，因而衍生出許多有趣的物理現象及自組裝結構，此
為高分子與軟物質開闢一個新的研究領域。 Prof. Kenji Tanaka 演
講 ”Time-dependent Heterogeneity in Viscoelastic Properties of Supramolecular 
Systems”，主要講述他發現黏彈性對於高分子鏈擴散特性所產生的明顯影響。 
 
  筆者的講題為 ”Nucleosome-like Structure from Dendrimer-induced DNA 
Compaction”， 主要講述筆者近年來在 DNA-dendrimer錯合物奈米結構之系統性
研究，本研究主要將 DNA與第九代樹枝狀高分子以靜電作用力錯合，利用小角
度 X-光與中子散射揭露 DNA可緊密、規則地纏繞在樹枝高分子上，形成類似核
小體之 beads-on-string結構。藉由所發展之小角度散射圖譜分析技術，我們不僅
能夠擷取這種「似核小體」的結構參數，並可解析「似核小體」單元組成的「似
染色質」纖維的構形。本研究率先揭露 DNA/樹枝高分子錯合物作為模擬核小體
或染色質結構模型系統之可行性與相關之小角度散射分析方法。演講完後，與聽
眾進行簡短之問答，會後九州大學 Prof. Kenji Tanaka主動與筆者針對研究內容作
深入討論，並表達與筆者進行研究合作之興趣。 
感想與建議 
感謝國科會經費的補助，讓筆者得以參加此高水準之研討會，整個過程相當順
利，也有不錯的收穫。高分子物理是瞭解與控制高分子材料形態學及性質之基
礎，仍是高分子領域一門極重要的顯學，國內近年來在高分子物理的研究已有大
幅的進步，特別是許多青年學者的投入，使台灣在此領域的國際能見度逐漸提
升。但國內高分子物理的研究普遍著重在靜態結構方面的研究，跟國外先進國家
相較，對於多尺度結構之動態演化、polymer dynamics及流變學等仍有補強之空
間。另外國內高分子學者著重在實驗之研究，對於理論模擬工具之建立欲運用較
為缺乏，這是為未來在高分子學門之高分子物理子領域可補強之處。高分子科學
與工程的領域也逐漸演化為一門跨學科的專業，國內高分子物理專長之學者與光
電、生醫、能源等領域之學者進行跨領域合作，使相關材料之研發更有效率，也
是一件值得積極推動的工作。 
攜回資料 
研討會會議議程手冊 
射領域中非常知名的學者來分享研究成果。其餘時間(早上十點半到下午七點)讓
四個不同session同時進行演說，從中可聽取各種相關領域的成果發表。會議共安
排約 120位師長及學生口頭報告演講，涉獵題目多元，包括生物技術、陶瓷材料、
軟物質科學、高分子材料、表面/界面科學、鐵磁系統以、理論模擬及解析技術
等主題。會議第二天及第四天中午舉行來自各國約 300位學者海報論文之研究介
紹。學生在第四天中午即進行海報的張貼及解說 (題目為Polymer-Templated 
Nanoparticle Formation Studied by Small Angle X-ray Scattering)，其研究主要是探
討當金屬鈀 (Pd) 奈米粒子在均聚物 P2VP中進行還原，並且利用同步時間解析
小角度X光散射技術觀察還原前後的非平衡動態學之行為，而本海報主要結論係
在說明在高溫條件下還原產生之階層性結構。壁報展示過程當中，學生有與許多
學者以及各地的博士班學生進行學術上的討論與分享，並在過程中得到很多有用
的建議與指教。例如 Prof. U-Ser Jeng提供我改進實驗上的技巧建議，Alexander O. 
學者也提供了更多在物性上分析的技巧以及日本學者 Prof. Yugi 也提出金屬粒
子如果排除高分子鏈產生階層性結構等疑問。在會議結束的前一天晚上，學生有
參加大會主辦的晚宴，晚宴中除了仍有學術上的交流外，還有來自世界各國的學
者相互談天、了解彼此，讓研討會步入完美的句點。在晚宴的最後，主辦單位宣
佈 2015年SAS舉辦的地點在德國的柏林首都。 
 
二、與會心得 
    參與此次大會安排的研究演講，聽取到許多優秀的論文發表：(1) SAS and 
Polymers: Nanopartilces and polymers. Subtle balance of colloid entities. (Alexander 
Ozerin)。該學者剖析許多奈米粒子在高分子基底中相關的物性變化(如:如何控制
奈米粒子有較窄的分布曲線，即便在高濃度下也不易聚集以及奈米粒子之間的作
用力相互影響等等)以及如何利用小角度散射應用做深入討論等。除此之外，該
學者也與學生的海報討論中互動頻繁癟且給了學了很多值得思考的論點，並且提
供學生更多相關可參考之文獻，實在是令學生獲益良多。(2) Structural Biology: 
SAXS Investigation of Two-Dimensional Packing of Short-DNA with Nonsticky 
Overhangs in Cationic Liposome-DNA Complex (Youli Li)。雖然此報告非學生領域
專長，但此篇學者利用較短鏈之DNA並且發現在 2D pattern 中具有anisotropic 
phase的液晶現象，此可設計應用在陽離子複合薄膜之間做改善。此會議中包含
了更種應用小角度散射之領域知識，讓學生體悟到小角度散射確實是非常強而有
力的解析工具與技術，當中各有優異，若能選擇最佳分析方式勢必對科學發展有
很大的貢獻。 
    除了一系列精彩的oral presentation，學生對於幾篇poster presentation也深感
興趣: (1) Electric field induced order in suspensions of gibbsite platelets studied by 
SAXS and PLM (Anke Leferink op Reinink, U. Utrecht) 該篇利用外加電場使原來
為isotropic相之 gibbsite platelet 經由有機溶劑產生排列，並且隨著強度增加使得
1 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助出席國際會議報告 
陳信龍 
國立清華大學化學工程系 
 
會議名稱：第五屆台日中子與 X-光散射研討會 
地點：日本東海 
日期: 102 年 2 月 24 日至 2 月 27 日  
補助計畫編號:NSC 99-2221-E-007 -008 
 
前言 
 感謝國科會經費補助，使筆者有機會至日本東海參加「第五屆台日中子與
X-光散射研討會」，並發表邀請演講。隨著奈米與生物科技的蓬勃發展，同步輻
射 X光及中子散射技術已成為奈米結構解析的重要工具。目前國內已有同步輻射
X光源可用於 X光散射之研究，日本在中子散射應用與研究有長久深厚的基礎，
擁有加速器型中子源(KENS, KEK)及反應器型中子源(JRR3M, JAEA)，並建有各式先
進中子散射儀;在同步輻射 X 光散射方面，日本 Spring‐8 國家實驗室更是具有全
球首屈一指的光束線設備。為了促進國內學者有效應用 X光及中子散射方法進行
高分子、奈米與生物科技的研發工作，2006 年清大工科系林滄浪教授與日本東
京大學柴山充弘教授率先發起台日中子散射研討會，希冀藉由研討會的舉辦，與
日本相關方面的研究專家進行會談並交換研究心得，以獲得最新的研究技術，並
開展台日雙方長期的研究合作，對提昇國內的相關研究有相當大的助益。該研討
已成為一常規之會議，由台日方交替每年舉辦一次，已在日本東海(2006年)、台
灣烏來(2007年)、日本京都（2008年）、台灣宜蘭（2010年）舉行四屆，而第五
屆則於 2013年 2/24‐2/27再至日本東海舉行（2013年，因為日本東北大地震，
被迫延期兩年）。 
第五屆台日中子與 X‐光散射應用研討會於日本東海舉辦，國內有各學校及研究
單位的教授研究人員十二人參加，日方則有各大學及 KEK、JAEA等約三十人參與
此盛會，再次成功的進行台日雙方於散射研究的成果討論與交流。本研討會的口
頭演講皆是以邀請為主，筆者這次受邀於本研討會發表論文，感到相當榮幸。 
過程 
筆者於 2月 24日搭乘中華航空公司直飛東京成田機場的班機，之後再搭巴士
至勝田市，於當天傍晚抵達，當晚便下塌主辦單位安排之旅館，隔天再由專車載
送至東海參加研討會。 
3 
 
由筆者擔任主辦人，訂於 2014年 3月 9~12日在台舉辦，日方將派 13~15位教授
與會，其中 10位將進行邀請演講，我方則可安排約 16位邀請演講者。會中並達
成共識，希望這次的研討會能大力推動雙方年輕世代教授間的交流及合作，故雙
方的邀請演講者以有潛力、研究表現傑出的年輕助理教授及副教授為主。第六屆
的研討會主題將著重在中子與 X‐光散射在高分子、奈米材料及生物分子等領域之
應用，會議地點為台北市福華文教會館，在台舉辦將可容許國內更多相關研究人
員參與此項研討會，使我國相關領域研究獲得更大之效益。 
 
攜回資料 
研討會會議議程手冊 
99年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳信龍 計畫編號：99-2221-E-007-008-MY3 
計畫名稱：結晶-無定形嵌段共聚物摻合體與雙結晶性嵌段共聚物之結晶行為研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列為該期刊之封
面故事...等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 6 6 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 9 6 100% 
計畫之執行對於國
內在高分子結晶及
自組裝行為研究架
構之建立有其重要
性，成果已發表於
Macromolecules 、
J. Phys. Chem. B
等一流之國際期
刊，並受邀於 Soft 
Matter撰寫review 
article，對於國內
高分子物理之基礎
研究能力與能見度
之提升有相當之助
益。 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 3 3 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
國外 
參與計畫人力 碩士生 4 4 100% 人次  
