 I 
摘要 
 
本論文旨在製備一系列具有不同摻雜態的聚苯胺奈米纖維並利用其修飾燃
料電池之氣體擴散電極以改善燃料電池於低相對濕度下的操作性能。本研究首先
利用化學合成法製備聚苯胺奈米纖維，並探討不同的摻雜酸(如：鹽酸、硫酸)對
所製備聚苯胺奈米纖維型態與導電度的影響。本研究利用紅外線光譜儀、紫外光
/可見光光譜儀鑑定聚苯胺的分子結構，掃描式電子顯微鏡分析聚苯胺奈米纖維
的型態，並以四點探針儀測量其導電度。在成功製備聚苯胺奈米纖維後，本研究
亦探討於氣體擴散電極內的不同位置導入聚苯胺奈米纖維對燃料電池極化性能
的影響。由實驗結果可知，當聚苯胺奈米纖維係導入於氣體擴散層以及觸媒層之
間時，所獲得的單電池性能會明顯優於將聚苯胺奈米纖維導入於觸媒層內或者質
子交換膜與觸媒層之間。在此基礎下，本研究將嘗試於氣體擴散層與觸媒層間導
入不同種類的聚苯胺奈米纖維並比較經聚苯胺奈米纖維修飾前後的氣體擴散電
極於不同相對濕度下的單電池性能。由實驗結果得知，使用硫酸摻雜之聚苯胺奈
米纖維修飾後的氣體擴散電極具有較高的親水特性並可在低相對濕度操作的條
件下展現較佳的單電池性能。隨著操作濕度由 100%降低到 70 %，使用硫酸摻雜
之聚苯胺奈米纖維修飾後的氣體擴散電極性能可由 0.57 W cm-2 增加到 0.7 W 
cm
-2。然而，未經聚苯胺奈米纖維修飾的氣體擴散電極則其性能會隨著濕度的降
低而由 0.73 W cm-2 降低到 0.55 W cm-2，可知於氣體擴散電極性能內導入聚苯胺
奈米纖維確可有效提升燃料電池於低操作濕度下的性能。 
 
 
關鍵字：聚苯胺奈米纖維、氣體擴散電極、燃料電池 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
1. Introduction 
Proton exchange membrane fuel cell (PEMFC) is one of the most attractive power 
sources for a variety of applications, due to its low operating temperature and high 
power density compared to other fuel cell types [1-3]. Although PEMFCs have 
several advantages, there are some obstacles preventing their early commercial 
viability. The issues include thermal and water management during the operational 
process, as well as the reliability and durability of the membrane electrode assembly 
(MEA). Among these concerns, water management stands out as one of the key 
challenges in the commercialization process, since this plays a critical role in the 
transport of proton in the electrolyte and reactant gases in the porous electrodes [4-5]. 
An optimum level of hydration is required for proton transport through the membrane 
during the operation of PEMFCs. However, if the water removal rate does not keep up 
with the generation rate, excessive water will accumulate, hindering the transport of 
the reactant gas, which leads to poor performance. This is known as the water 
flooding problem [6-7]. To date, a great deal of research has been devoted to 
developing a series of suitable hardware and PEMFC materials in an attempt to 
overcome this problem [8-16]. 
 
The gas diffusion layer (GDL) is one of the most critical components of the PEMFC 
in water management, since it maintains the delicate balance between membrane 
hydration and drying. In practice, the GDL is treated with hydrophobic material in 
order to change its wetting characteristics, prevent water accumulation, and improve 
the transport limitation when fully hydrated gases are used [8-10]. The hydrophobic 
materials such as poly(tetra-fluoroethylene) (PTFE) [9], or fluorinated ethylene 
propylene (FEP) [10] are introduced into the GDL to increase its hydrophobicity or 
wetting angle. Even though addition of hydrophobic materials to the GDL is helpful 
in water transport, this treatment may also lead to a decrease of total porosity and an 
increase of hydrophobic pores, which would lead to an increase of reactant flow 
resistance in the GDL [8-10]. Several studies also reported that the adding of high 
content of PTFE leads to a water flooding problem in fuel cells [11-13]. For example, 
Park et al. [12] found increasing the PTFE content in the gas diffusion media (GDM) 
hinders the water removal from the catalyst layer and thus causes the water flooding. 
Tuber et al. [13] reported the use of hydrophilic GDL without the treatment of PTFE 
gains an advantage in reducing the water flooding over the hydrophobic GDL treated 
with PTFE as the former approach can effectively remove water from the cathode 
catalyst layer to the GDL. 
 
 3 
The nano-chain PUREBLACK
®
 205-110 Carbon and Vapor grown carbon fiber 
(VGCF-H) was procured from Superior Graphite Co., IL and Showa Denko America 
Inc., NY, USA, respectively. The Nafion
 
membrane (NRE-212) and Nafion dispersion 
were obtained from Ion Power Inc., New Castle, DE, USA. 
 
2.2 Synthesis and characterization of polyaniline nanofibers 
An aqueous solution of aniline in 1M doping acid (5 mL) and another solution of 
oxidants (ammonium peroxydisulfate) in the same doping acid (5 mL) were prepared, 
respectively. The solutions were then poured into a 20 mL glass vial and shaken 
vigorously for 30 s and sonicated at 60 
o
C for 2 hours. The resulting PANI samples 
were isolated by gravity filtration and washed by de-ionized water followed by drying 
in an oven for 1 day.  
 
The morphologies of the PANFs samples were examined by a field emission scanning 
electron microscope (FE-SEM; JEOL JSM-7401F, Tokyo, Japan). The attenuated total 
reflection (ATR) FTIR spectra were recorded (32 scans at a resolution of 4 cm
-1
) using 
an FTIR spectrophotometer (FT-IR; Spectrum One, Perkin Elmer, Wellesley, MA, 
USA). The electronic conductivity of polyaniline pellets was measured by a 
four-probe method (Conductance meter; CM-308, ELCHEMA, Potsdam, NY, USA) 
using a 500 mV applied potential.  
 
2.3  PEMFC with the incorporation of PANFs 
2.3.1 Preparation and characterization of anode incorporated with PANFs at 
different placements 
The anode was fabricated using a 15% wet proof gas diffusion media as a support 
(HEPHAS energy, Hsingchu, Taiwan) for PANFs placement. The PANFs was firstly 
layered on this gas diffusion media with a loading amount of 2 mg cm
-2
. The catalyst 
layer was coated using the carbon supported Pt as the catalyst (50 % Pt on carbon 
black - Johnson Matthey, London, UK) with a metal loading of 3 mg cm
−2
. For 
comparison, the PANFs was incorporated in the electrodes, using two further methods, 
1) layering between the catalyst layer and the proton conducting membrane and 2) 
mixing with the catalyst slurry for coating.  
 
Electrochemical measurements of the anodes were performed by a half-cell system 
based on a conventional three-electrode cell [26]. The prepared electrode was 
mounted on a PTFE holder as a working electrode. The PTFE holder included a Pt 
ring served as current collector, and gases were supplied from the back of this 
electrode. The counter electrode and reference electrode were Pt wire and Ag/AgCl, 
 5 
The MEAs were fabricated by sandwiching the GDLs with a PANI layer and the 
CCM inside the single cell test cell (Fuel Cell Technologies Inc., Albuquerque, NM, 
USA). The single cell fuel cell performance was evaluated at 80 ◦C in 100, 90, 80 and 
70% RH conditions on both anode and cathode sides using a Greenlight Test Station 
(G50 Fuel Cell System, Hydrogenics, Vancouver, Canada). The gas flow rates were 
fixed at 200 and 400 SCCM for H2 and O2 (and air), respectively. The steady state 
voltage values were collected by holding the cell at each current density value for 20 
seconds. 
 
2.3.3 Characterization of PANFs-incorporated gas diffusion layers 
The contact angle values of the GDL surfaces were measured by means of a 
computer-aided analysis of shapes of liquid drops, as observed in an optical 
goniometer (Rame-hart 100, Netcong, NJ, USA) and recorded by a digital camera. 
The pictures of the drops were then analyzed using a PC and specialized software, and 
the contact angle values were obtained. The microstructure characteristics of the gas 
diffusion media were investigated using a mercury intrusion porosimetry technique. 
The pore size distribution and specific pore volume in the gas diffusion layer were 
calculated from an intrusion curve obtained by using a mercury intrusion pore-sizer 
(Auto Pore IV 9500, Shimadzu, Kyoto, Japan).  
 
 
3. Results and discussion 
3.1 PANI nanofibers 
Figure 1 shows the SEM images of the PANI samples doped with HCl and H2SO4. As 
seen in Figure 1, the average diameter of HCl-doped PANFs (ca. 60~80 nm) is 
smaller than that of H2SO4-doped PANFs (ca. 80~100 nm), indicating that the 
diameter of the PANI nanofibers can be controlled by the dopant acid. Figure 2 shows 
the FT-IR spectra of the PANFs samples doped with HCl and H2SO4. For HCl-doped 
PANFs sample, the characteristic peaks at 1567 and 1483 cm
-1
 can be assigned to the 
C=C stretching vibration of the quinoid and benzenoid rings, respectively. The band 
at 1300 cm
-1
 corresponds to C-N stretching vibration with an aromatic conjugation. 
N=Q=N absorption peaks (Q representing the quinoid ring) at 1140 cm
–1
 were also 
observed. The C–H out-of-plane bending vibration located at 828 cm
–1
 is due to a 
para-substitution pattern, indicating that a head-to-tail coupling of aniline occurs 
during polymerization. The characteristic features of the PANFs are consistent with 
those reported in the literature [28-29]. 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
Table 1 Conductivity of polyaniline nanofibers with different doping acids 
Conductivity (S cm 
-1
) 
Sample 
Before heat treatment 
After heat treatment at 
80 
o
C for 2 h 
HCl-doped PANFs 5.16 0.48 
H2SO4-doped PANFs 3.18 1.82 
 
 
Table 1 presents the conductivity of PANFs samples with different dopants. As can be 
seen, the as-synthesized HCl-doped PANFs (HCl-PANFs) exhibits a higher 
conductivity than that of H2SO4-doped ones (H2SO4-PANFs). This result can be 
explained by the fact that the smaller molecular size of Cl
-,
 with a greater permeability 
through the polymer matrix, can increase the conductivity of polyaniline samples [30]. 
In contrast to the as-synthesized samples, the H2SO4-PANFs exhibits a significantly 
higher conductivity than that of the HCl-PANFs after they are heat-treated at 80 
o 
C. 
Again, the smaller size of Cl
-
 may be responsible for this result, since it encountered a 
much serious de-doping problem at high temperature leading to a significant decrease 
of polyaniline conductivity [31-32].   
 
 
3.2 Effect of PANFs placement in anode on PEMFC performance 
This study first studied the effect of PANFs incorporation positions in the electrode on 
the PEMFC performance to find a suitable approach to modify the anode with PANFs. 
Figure 3 compares the performances of the PEMFCs at 50 
o
C. As seen from the 
Figure 3, sandwiching HCl-PANFs between the GDL and the catalyst layer (CL) 
exhibits a maximum power density of 100 mW cm
-2
 compared to PANFs 
incorporation in other positions. If PANFs is placed between membrane and CL, this 
could result in incompatible interface leading to lower power density of only 40 mW 
cm
-2
 [33]. On the other hand, power density of 80 mW cm
-2
 was obtained with PANFs 
introduction in the bulk of the catalyst layer. This lower performance could be 
attributed to the PANFs covered active sites of catalysts and thus leads to the 
reduction in the electrochemical active surface area. Figure 4 shows the cyclic 
voltammetry (CV) plot of the electrodes incorporated with PANFs at different 
 9 
 
Figure 3 Fuel cell performance comparisons of HCl-PANFs incorporated electrodes 
at 50 
o
C using H2/O2 gases. 
 
 
 
Figure 4 Cyclic voltammograms of the electrodes with and without HCl-PANFs 
incorporation in 0.5 M H2SO4 solutions.  
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6 Fuel cell performance comparisons of the PEMFC at 80 
o
C using H2/Air as a 
reactant at different RH conditions: (a) without the incorporation of PANFs and (b) 
with the incorporation of HCl-PANFs in electrode. 
 
 
(a)  
(b) 
 13 
 
  
  
Figure 7 Fuel cell performance comparisons of the PEMFC at 80 
o
C using H2/O2 as a 
reactant at different RH conditions: (a) Without the incorporation of PANFs and (b) 
with the incorporation of HCl-PANFs in electrode. 
 
 
(b) 
(a) 
 15 
3.4 Effect of PANFs incorporation on pore size and wetting angle of GDLs  
In order to understand the performance improvement of the PANFs interlayer based 
MEAs, pore size distribution and hydrophilic properties of the samples were 
evaluated. Figure 9 compares the pore size distribution of the GDL samples with and 
without PANFs interlayer. As can be seen, the GDL without any PANFs layer shows 
pore diameters at ~ 0.1 and ~ 15 µm. There is a significant decrease in the volume of 
the smaller pore at ~ 0.1 µm observed from the PANFs incorporated GDLs, along 
with an increase in the volume of the larger pore at ~15 µm. These results 
demonstrate that the introduction of PANFs helps to form larger pores in the GDL. It 
should be noted that the existence of larger pores may be beneficial for the mass 
transport in electrodes [39]. We therefore speculate that the larger pores may be the 
primary factor leading the PANFs-incorporated electrode to show a similar mass 
transport property as the pristine one, even an extra layer was placed between GDL 
and CL in the PANFs-incorporated electrode. On the other hand, both HCl-PANFs and 
H2SO4-PANFs interlayered GDLs exhibited similar pore size distribution, indicating 
the type of PANFs has little effect on the porosity of the GDL.  
 
 
 
 
Figure 9 Pore size distributions of the gas diffusion layers with and without the 
incorporation of PANFs. 
 
 17 
MEAs without incorporation of PANFs exhibited a decrease in power density when 
the RH was reduced. The present study confirmed the benefit of introducing of 
H2SO4-PANFs in maintaining the PEMFC performance at lower RH conditions.       
 
 19 
interlayer for proton exchange membrane fuel cells under low relative humidity 
conditions. J Power Sources 2009;193:447-453 
17. Xia ZT, Chan SH. Analysis of carbon-filled gas diffusion layer for H2/air polymer 
electrolyte fuel cells with an improved empirical voltage-current model. Int J 
Hydrogen Energy 2007;32:878-885 
18. Han M, Chan SH, Jiang SP, Development of carbon-filled gas diffusion layer for 
polymer electrolyte fuel cells. J Power Sources 2006;159:1005-1014 
19. Kannan AM, Munukutla L. Carbon nano-chain and carbon nano-fibers based gas 
diffusion layers for proton exchange membrane fuel cells. J Power Sources 
2007;167:330-335 
20. Kannan AM, Cindrella L, Munukutla L. Functionally graded nano-porous gas 
diffusion layer for proton exchange membrane fuel cells under low relative 
humidity conditions. Electrochim Acta 2008;53:2416 
21. Hung TF, Huang J, Chuang HJ, Bai SH, Lai YJ, Chen-Yang YW. Highly efficient 
single-layer gas diffusion layers for the proton exchange membrane fuel cell. J 
Power Sources 2008;184:165-171 
22. Li G, Martinez C, Janata J, Smith JA. Josowicz M, Semancik S. Effect of 
morphology on the response of polyaniline-based conductometric gas sensors: 
nanofibers vs. thin films. Electochem. Solid State lett 2004;7:H44-H77 
23. Virji S, Huang J, Kaner RB, Weiller BH. Polyaniline nanofiber gas sensors:  
examination of response mechanisms. Nano letters 2004;4:491-496 
24. Huang J, Virji S, Weiller BH, Kaner RB. Polyaniline Nanofibers:  Facile 
Synthesis and Chemical Sensors. J Am Chem Soc 2003;125:314-315 
25. Martin CR, Dyke LSV, Cai Z, Liang W. Template synthesis of organic 
microtubules. J Am Chem Soc 1990;112:8976-8977 
26. Lin CW, Chung LC, Veerapur R S, Yang FC. Alternative hybrid electrolytes 
based on a series of bis(trialkoxysilyl)alkanes and 3-(trihydroxysilyl)-1-propane 
sulfonic acid applied in gas diffusion electrodes of proton exchange membrane 
fuel cells, J Power Sources 2011;196:1069-107  
27. Lin CW, Thangamuthu R, Yang CJ. Proton-conducting membranes with high 
selectivity from phosphotungstic acid-doped poly(vinyl alcohol) for DMFC 
applications. J Membr Sci 2005;253:23-31 
28. Lu X, Mao H, Chao D, Zhang W, Wei Y. Fabrication of polyaniline 
nanostructures under ultrasonic irradiation: From nanotubes to nanofibers. 
Macromol Chem Physic 2006;207:2142-2152 
29. Zhang ZM, Wei ZX, Wan M. Nanostructures of Polyaniline Doped with Inorganic 
Acids. Macromolecules 2002;35:5937-5942 
30. Long Y, Chen Z, Wang N, Zhang Z, Wan M. Resistivity study of polyaniline 
出國報告（出國類別：國際會議）
The Renewable Energy 2010
會議心得報告
服務機關：國立雲林科技大學
姓名職稱：林智汶 教授
派赴國家：日本
報告日期：99.07.15
出國時間：99.06.26 ~ 99.07.02
future by maintaining symbiotic and recycling-oriented society apart
from a mass consumption economy. A longer term and consistent
policies on the Renewable Energy technology are essential. There
exist a number of possible technology-based solutions. We, the
specialists involved in the field of renewable energy technologies
today, accept this challenge and should respond. Renewable energy
is the only peaceful and green energy resource anywhere on earth.
This fact should inspire us to further its development and
dissemination. We, the attendants here, wish to meet each other
again at the next occasion of this Renewable Energy Conference in
near future somewhere”. Japan chairs the second international 
conference then.
(2) Aspect further accelerated
Compared with year 2006, global situation has been extremely
changed like global warning, abnormal climate, steep energy price
hike, global monetary imbalance and so on. Abatement plan for the
crisis was publicized in Japan too in this fiscal year, such as “The 50% 
CO2 reduction by2050”, “The 21 emphasized technologies sponsored 
by government”, “Action Plan to build low carbon society”,etc. Many 
post-Kyoto discussion is also stimulating international discussion in
round table. In such an occasion, the conference composed of
renewable energy specialists, sitting together is quite significant in
order for sharing the knowledge and technologies.
(3) Personnel development with technology know-how is very
important
Renewable energy, supplied from or originated by solar is forever and
ultimate energy as long as globe sustained. It ought to be a core of
energy in 21st century. The development and education of personnel
who aims the major of renewable energy technology become
essential. The international conference will assist and promote such
needs especially for the next and young generation in submitting such
an opportunity.
with your conference pass.
：Special Sessions
Special Sessions are sessions jointly opened with RE2010
International Conference. You need to register to each session in
each organizer's specified way. The registration and program details
will be updated in each oarganizes website, linked through "Special
Sessions" page.
大會安排的 Guest speeches 包括：
M. Naoshima（Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan）
M. Yamada（Deputy Mayor, City of Yokohama）
大會安排的 keynote speeches 包括：
 Toshio Yamagata（School of Science, The University of Tokyo）：Climate Change,
Variation and Sustainable Green Energy
 Dr. David Renné（President, International Solar Energy Society）：Status and
Trends of Solar PV Around the World
大會的口頭報告演講區分為 12 領域，包括：
Area I: Policy
Area II: Photovoltaic
Area III: Solar Thermal Applications
Area IV: Low Energy Architecture
Area V: Wind Energy
Area VI: Biomass
Area VII: Hydrogen & Fuel Cell
Area VIII: Ocean Energy

the other hand, climate “change” refers to a situation in which the normal state 
changes over a longer period of time. The latter often results from some external
impact on the atmospheric and oceanic system. The relation between increasing
concentrations of greenhouse gasses and the rise in earth surface temperatures has
become a major focal point as a problem of global warming. Since this is caused by
human activity, it is a problem of climate change. The earth’s rotational orbit and the 
tilt of the earth’s axis fluctuate on a timescale of tens of thousands of years or more.
These cause ice ages and interglacial periods due to changes in the sunlight radiation,
and as such, these could also be described as climate change. The distinction between
“variation” and “change” is important when considering application measures. It is
climate variation, not climate change, that is directly related to the abnormal weather
and extreme natural phenomena.
Initiatives aimed at predicting climate variation have been progressing rapidly in
professional climate science community. We are at a level whereby the occurrence of
El Niño can be predicted one or two years in advance. To develop a sustainable green
energy system for the 21st century, we need to establish such a climate forecast
system, which is now indispensable to human and social security.
Status and Trends of Solar PV Around the World
Dr. David Renné
President, International Solar Energy Society
Keynote Address: 30 June 2010
Solar photovoltaic technologies have made remarkable strides in efficiency, cost
effectiveness and widespread applications around the world in the past 30 years. This
paper will provide an overview of the current status of PV technologies and markets,
and what future trends might be expected in these markets. Currently, PV is deployed
as distributed off-grid systems to individual households and communities in the rural
and developing world, distributed systems as part of an existing grid infrastructure,
and large central solar stations connected either to a distribution or feeder line, or
directly to the regional transmission grid.The latter application has recently seen a
rapid growth in developed countries and regions such as the U.S., Europe, and Japan.
Nevertheless, the value of off-grid and distributed PV is still very high, and these
niche markets should continue to be addressed in the future.
Clearly, the solar resource is not a limiting factor in deploying PV systems around the
學生宿舍採太陽能供應熱水 宿舍廢水處理
室外新空氣經地道預冷（熱）再引入空調機組，降低空調機組運轉能耗
澳洲國立大學（The Australian National University）啟動校園再生能源永續發展
計畫更早，在1999年即已開始，校園策略一個重要的關鍵元素及再於建立一個行
動與學術活動之間強而有力的連結，使得資訊能一傳十，十傳百。
日本東大設定2012年減碳達到2006年排放量之15%為目標，學校也啟動永續校園
計畫（Todai Sustainable Campus Project (TSCP)），該計畫主要包括 (1) monitoring
and optimal control of demand and supply, (2) low carbon campus formation by
energy saving and renewable energy production and (3) collaboration with
Society。 首要是執行校園內各種節能措施，小型風力發電為主要推動項目。
個人覺得國內各大學也應該啟動類似計畫，從大學校園帶頭做起永續校園節能減
碳計畫。
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/05/21
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 製備聚苯胺奈米一維結構應用於燃料電池氣體擴散層之研究
計畫主持人: 林智汶
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-224-038- 學門領域: 電化學
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本研究與美國國家實驗室 Los Alomos 進行國際合作 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
