and the PMOS diode-connected transistor M7. 
The centre point of the load resistors, which is 
an ac virtual ground, is taken as the reference 
point for the CM stabilisation loop and forms 
one input to OA. The second input to OA is 
gnd_a. The resulting error voltage forms the 
input to OA which in turn drives the current 
source M8. M8 defines the DC current generated 
by the upper current source of the PMOS load 
(M3, M4) thus closing the CM-feedback loop. 
For an N channel system, only one such (master) 
CM feedback circuit is required since the 
voltage at the gates of M3 and M4 can be used 
to supply N – 1 slave systems.  
The circuit schematic of the amplifier OA is 
shown in Fig 4a. It is a simple balanced OTA 
design with current source Ibias of 10 µA 
resulting in an open-loop gain of about 60 dB. 
This provides adequate DC stability of the CM 
voltage together with closed-loop stability. The 
circuit schematic of the 2nd rank amplifier OA2 
is shown in Fig 4b. This is a conventional folded 
cascode design operating with a tail current (Ibias) 
of 10 µA and a compensating capacitor of 0.1 
pF. The open loop gain is 76 dB with a phase 
margin of 40° which when operated with a 
feedback capacitor (C2 in Fig 4) of 1 pF results 
in a rise-time of about 10 µs.  
II. FRONT-END SIMULATED RESULTS 
The arrangement used for simulation (and 
measurement-see Section V) was based on the 
circuits shown in Figs 1 and 2 consisting of a 
pair of dipole channels multiplexed to a single 
2nd rank amplifier. This was simulated using 0.8 
µm CMOS transistor models. The frequency 
response of a single preamplifier (OA1) is 
shown in Fig 5. The low frequency gain is 82 
(38.2 dB) and the cutoff frequency is 21 kHz. 
The total input-referred spot noise density at 1 
kHz is 8.4 nV/√Hz and the input-referred r.m.s. 
noise in the bandwidth 300 Hz – 10 kHz is 295 
nV. This performance is very similar to the 
amplifier described in [2], but with less overall 
current requirement. For the system simulation, 
C1 was chosen to be 10 pF and C2 1 pF, 
providing a voltage gain of 10. When driven by 
a preamplifier, overall channel gain predicted to 
be 820 (58.2 dB). The switches connecting the 
two preamplifiers to the single 2nd rank 
amplifiers are driven by four non-overlapping 
clocks of duration 10 µs labelled Φ1a, Φ2a Φ1b, 
Φ2b and the charge-dump switch connected 
across C2 is driven by clock Φ2 of duration 5 µs. 
The period of the clock is 120 µs, corresponding 
to a clock rate of 8.3 kHz. The waveforms are 
shown in Fig 6. In addition to the simulated 
amplifier noise, kT/C-noise is introduced by the 
sample-and-hold action of the switches. The 
noise density Vn in the passband is 
approximated by [4]: 
 
s
hn fC
kTV
1
4
pi
τ ⋅<  … (1) 
where τh is the duty cycle of the hold phase, 
which results in less than 33nV/√Hz at the 
output of the sample stage. When referred back 
to the input of the system, the contribution of 
kT/C-noise is small in comparison to the 
amplifiers’ voltage noise and can be neglected. 
Fig 7 shows the output from the 2nd rank 
amplifier when one of the inputs is stimulated 
with a sinusoid of frequency 200 Hz and 
amplitude 1 mV (the other input is connected to 
ground; the response of both channels is 
identical). The output signal is a clean, sampled 
and held sinewave of amplitude approximately 
0.8 V, representing an overall voltage gain of 
about 800, which is close to the predicted value. 
Fig 11 shows the response of one channel to a 
sawtooth input of amplitude 1 mV and 
frequency 200 Hz. As in the case of the 
sinusoidal input, the simulated output is very 
close to the predicted response and the 
properties of the channels are close to identical. 
The power consumption per channel is 
approximately 2 mW which is somewhat less 
than that reported in [2]. Note however, that this 
advantage will increase with the number of 
channels in the system.  
III. FRONT-END MEASURED RESULTS 
The system was implemented on a test chip 
using austriamicrosystems 0.8µm CMOS 
about 2 mW, a significant reduction compared 
to the system described in [2].  
IV. TECHNICAL DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION 
It is shown by our work that MEC-based 
systems have potentially much better 
interference (i.e. EMG and other common-mode 
signals) suppression characteristics than single 
tripoles and that in fact the only significant 
contributions originate from the two end 
electrodes of the array. It follows from this that 
interference suppression is optimised if the 
gains of the outermost channels of the array are 
equalised. Clearly, equalisation of the amplifier 
channel gains is an important consideration in 
this but the system can function optimally only 
if the signal inputs from the cuff electrodes are 
identical. The output from a particular electrode 
depends on many factors some of which are 
predictable and other which are not. For 
example, the outputs of the tripoles are greatest 
at the centre of the cuff and decrease fairly 
predictably towards the ends [5]. Given 
equalised channel gains, the averaging effect of 
the MEC ensures that interference suppression 
will be significantly better than a single tripole 
of the same dimension, irrespective of the 
characteristics of the nerve and the cuff.  
The method proposed in this project reduces the 
number of amplifiers required from 2N to N + 1, 
where N is the number of tripoles. In addition, 
the continuous time method described in [2] 
employed an integrated AC coupling stage 
between each pair of amplifiers consisting of a 
series MOS capacitor with a value of about 100 
pF and a grounded active resistor of about 10 
MΩ. In addition to being rather large elements, 
these stages introduced significant differential 
amplitude and phase errors between the 
channels, both of which are very damaging to 
the VSR process.   The method proposed uses 
sampled-data analogue (switched capacitor-SC) 
techniques which not only eliminates most of 
the gain and all the phase errors between the 
channels but also reduces significantly the 
overall complexity and power consumption.  
The 1st rank amplifiers (preamplifiers) 
employed in the design are modified versions of 
the units described in [2] which have balanced 
outputs with a CM level matched to the input of 
the 2nd rank stage. As a result there is no DC 
voltage across the analogue switches/MUX 
units thus eliminating an important source of 
spurious charge storage/injection and enabling 
the switches to operate with optimum dynamic 
range. The array of N preamplifiers operates in a 
master-slave arrangement sharing a single CM 
stage. Although this provides excellent DC 
stability, the presence of significant crosstalk 
between the channels of the measured circuit 
(but not in simulation) requires further 
investigation.   
Overall, the measured data obtained from the 2-
channel system which was fabricated in 0.8 µm 
CMOS technology match the simulated values 
quite well and confirm that systems of this type 
have significant advantages compared to the 
earlier continuous time systems. The gain in 
terms of size and power consumption will be 
especially valuable as N is increased beyond 
about 10, as MEC technology is refined and the 
demand for VSR increases. 
Moreover, the design and evaluation of a data 
logger using a compact controller for MMC 
memory was realized in this project and 
presented in [2]. The controller implements the 
minimal subset of the SPI protocol required for 
serial data recording. Avoiding protocol 
overhead, a small size and low complexity 
implementation is achieved ultimately allowing 
the integration of the controller together with 
sensor circuitry on a single ASIC. Using MMC 
renders the system suitable to be used externally 
in a receiver unit which collects data obtained 
by the MEC structure for further evaluation. The 
design yields low implementation cost and the 
absence of licensing restrictions. The design 
choices and implications are discussed in [2], 
making the proposed approach more generally 
adaptable to a range of different applications. So 
far, measured results using the ECG as a sample 
signal are conducted, confirming the principle 
Vout
IEMG
r1
r2
r3
rn
R0
-
+Ca1
Cb
Ca2
Φ1a Φ1b
Cai
Φia Φib
Φ2
 
Figure 1. Outline schematic of the proposed switched 
front-end system. The pairs of electrode voltages are 
buffered by n differential input, differential output buffers. 
The outputs are multiplexed by n switched capacitors and 
summed on the capacitor Cb, connected across the single 
second-rank amplifier. 
 
 
Figure 2. The circuit schematic used for simulation. It 
consists of one first-rank amplifier OA1 and one switched 
capacitor multiplexer unit showing the connection to the 
second rank amplifier, OA2. C1 is 10 pF and C2 is 1 pF, 
providing a voltage gain of 10. 
 
Figure 3. First-rank (preamplifier-OA1 in Fig 4) 
schematic. The input transistors Q1 and Q2 are lateral pnp 
devices which provide an optimal compromise between 
low noise and low power consumption. The NMOS 
current source M1, M2 supplies the DC current for both 
the input stage and the balanced folded cascade load 
consisting of M3 – M6. The actual load is provided by the 
resistors RL1 and RL2 and the centre point is taken as the 
reference for the common mode feedback loop consisting 
of the amplifier OA, the NMOS current source M8 and 
the diode-connected transistor M7.  
 
(a)                                            (b) 
Figure 4. Fig 7a is the circuit schematic of the common-
mode feedback amplifier OA shown in Fig 6. Ibias is set to 
10 µA and the input transistors have aspect ratios of 
200/5µm providing an open-loop gain of 60 dB. This 
provides a good compromise between DC accuracy and 
closed-loop stability. Fig 7b is the schematic of the 2nd 
rank amplifier OA2 in Fig 5. With a tail current (Ibias) of 
10µA and a compensating capacitor of 0.1 pF, the open 
loop gain is 76 dB with a phase margin of 40°, which is 
adequate for the application.  
 
Figure 5. Simulated frequency response of a single 
preamplifier. The low frequency gain is 82 (38.2 dB) and 
the cut-off frequency is 21 kHz. 
 
 
 
Figure 6. System clocks. The switches connecting the two 
preamplifiers to the single 2nd rank amplifiers are driven 
by four non-overlapping clocks of duration 10 µs labelled 
Φ1a, Φ2a Φ1b, Φ2b and the charge-dump switch connected 
across C2 is driven by clock Φ2 of duration 5 µs. 
 
    Φ1a 
& Φ2a Φ1b 
 
Φ2 Φ2b Φ2 
10 100 1k 10k
0 5 10 15 20 25
-0.8
-0.4
0
0.4
0.8
Time[ms]
Frequency [Hz]
0.1
1
0.01
O
u
tp
u
t
A
m
p
li
tu
d
e
[V
]
Channel 1
Channel 2
 
Figure 13. Measured data for a 200 Hz sinusoidal (2 
mVpp) applied to both channels. Frequency and time 
domain representation show that the dynamic channel 
gains are well matched. 
 
 
10 100 1k 10k
0.1
0.01
1
200 Hz
(channel 1)
2 kHz
(channel 2)
Frequency [Hz]
O
u
tp
u
t
A
m
p
li
tu
d
e
[V
]
 
Figure 14. FFT plot of measured data when a 200 Hz and 
a 2 kHz sinusoidal are applied to channel 1 and 2 
respectively. Both input amplitudes are 2 mVpp. 
 
10
-5
10
-4
10
-3
10
-2
Frequency [Hz]
O
u
tp
u
t
N
o
is
e
V
o
lt
ag
e
D
en
si
ty
[V
/
H
z]
√ 8.3 kHz clock
100 1k 10k101
60 Hz
 
Figure 15: Continuous-time output voltage noise spectral 
density measured with inputs connected to the reference 
ground potential. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] B. Razavi, “Design of Analog CMOS Integrated 
Circuits.” McGraw-Hill, Internat. Edition, 
Singapore, 2001. 
[2] R. Rieger, J. Taylor, et al, “Very Low-Noise ENG 
Amplifier System Using CMOS Technology.” 
IEEE Trans. Neural Systems and Rehab. Eng., vol. 
14,  no.4, pp. 427-437, 2006. 
[3] R Rieger, J Taylor, Design strategies for multi-
channel low-noise recording systems, Analog 
Integrated Circuits and Signal Processing   Volume: 
58   Issue: 2   Pages: 123-133 Published: Feb 2009. 
[4] J. H. Fischer, “Noise Sources and Calculation 
Techniques for Switched Capacitor Filters,” IEEE 
J. SSC, vol. SC-17, no. 4, pp. 742-752, 1982. 
[5] M. Rahal, J. Winter, J. Taylor, N. Donalson, “An 
improved configuration for the reduction of EMG 
in electrode cuff recordings: a theoretical 
approach.” IEEE Trans. Biomed. Eng., vol. 47, no. 
9, pp. 1281-1284, 2000. 
[6] Rieger, R.; Chen, S.-Y., “Integrated Linear Giga-
ohm Resistance using Current Scaling,” 
Microelectronics Journal, Vol. 41, no. 8, pp. 532-
537, 2010. 
[7] Huang, Y.-R.; Rieger, R., „A Custom-Design Data 
Logger Core for Physiological Signal Recording,” 
IEEE Trans. Instrumentation and Measurement, 
DOI 10.1109/TIM.2010.2051609, available: 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/abs_all.jsp?arnumber
=5487382, June 2010. 
[8] Chen, S.; Rieger, R.; “Linear Low-Frequency Filter 
using On-chip Giga-ohm Resistance,” in Proc. 
IEEE ISCAS 2010, May 2010. 
[9] Rieger, R.; Chang, L-S.; “A Continuously 
Trimmable Comparator-based Gain Stage,” Proc. 
IEEE Midwestern Symp. On Circuits & Systems, 
August 2009. 
[10] Huang, Y.-R., “A MMC Controller for Wearable 
Data Logging and Front-end Amplifier,” NSYSU 
Masters thesis, August 2009. 
[11] Rieger, R.; “Recent Developments in Biopotential 
Recording-Low-noise recording and a drift tolerant 
circuit,” Nanyang Technological University, 
Singapore, 7. October 2009. 
[12] Rieger, R., “Amplifier-digitizer with variably 
combined common-mode and differential-mode 
digital output,” Taiwan patent application, 
document no. 中山-KS12010336TW(2/7), August 
2010. 
 
 
表 Y04 
From August 2nd to August 5th the IEEE International Midwest Symposium on Circuits 
and Systems (IEEE-MWSCAS’09), the oldest CAS Society conference is held in 
Cancun, Mexico. The conference is chaired by Professor Hector Perez-Meana (General Chair 
MWSCAS 2009). 
The wide area of topics covered this year drew an important number of submissions (478) 
from all over the world. These were categorized and sent to a large number of reviewers 
carefully selected by the Technical program committee members, who performed the 
important task of reviewing and selected them. This brings the quality level of  
IEEE-MWSCAS2009 to a high standard to which our scientific community has grown 
accustomed. Based on those reviews, 290 papers from 36 countries were selected for 
presentation in lecture or poster sessions. 
IEEE-MWSCAS2009 encompasses an important number of tutorial sections and keynote 
talks given by prominent experts covering key areas of research in the field of Circuit and 
Systems, that provide all attendees a unique forum for the exchange of ideas and results. It 
was possible to create a technical program of high scientific quality enriched by three plenary 
talks and technical sessions. 
Three keynote speeches were presented as follows: 
1. “Analog Design for Human-Centric Smart Living Technologies,“ by Prof. Franco 
Maloberti, University of Pavia, Italy. 
2. “Vector Order Statistics and Fuzzy Set Approaches in 3D Digital Processing of 
Multichannel Images and Video Sequences Employing DSP/FPGA,” by Dr. Volodymyr 
Ponomaryov, ESIME-Culhuacan, National Polytechnic Institute , México. 
3. “Reconfigurable Signal Processing in Software Defined Radio and Instrumentation,” by Dr. 
Matthew T. Hunter, Chief Research Scientist Signal Processing and Communications DME 
Corporation, and Dr. Wasfy Mikhael, School of Electrical Engineering and Computer 
Science, University of Central Florida. 
These interesting presentations gave valuable insights into the state-of-the-art of circuit and 
system design. I was also very interested in the presented posters and lectures. Of especial 
value for my research are the ones presented by J. Colomer, P. Miribel-Català, and A. 
Saiz-Vela, from University of Barcelona, Spain. Their work is entitled “A low power CMOS 
Biopotentiostat in a Low-Voltage 0.13 µm Digital Technology.” 
Furthermore, I used the opportunity to make contact with numerous researchers and I 
could gain valuable direction and ideas for the future development of my project during the 
meetings. I also presented a work relating to the development of a low-power ADC to be used 
as part of the current project as well as other relating designs. The work is entitled “A 
Continuously Trimmable Comparator-based Gain Stage” and was co-authored by my student 
L.-S. Chang. This paper was presented in the poster session. 
In general, attending MWSCAS 2009 was a very pleasant and fruitful journey; not only it 
broadened my knowledge in advanced circuit design, but it also helps me a lot in improving 
my research strength and technical depth for the future submission to an SCI Journal. 
Moreover, I made personal contacts with several Professors in the field. 
 
 
 
表 Y04 
art in terms of equipment for chip hardware post-processing.  
Furthermore, I gained knowledge about the management of distributed software packages such as 
Cadence, which are also essential for the work here at NSYSU. It will allow me to organize the use 
of our chip-design software and support structures at NSYSU more efficiently and enhance the 
research and teaching impact. 
I also attended a presentation on current affairs in bio-chip design. Practical project work was 
demonstrated, e.g. the design and manufacturing of a stand-alone analyzer for water quality based 
on a university-made ASIC. I met a Professor from Munich Technical University who provided 
insights about the use of floating gate technique for CMOS design. These meetings and discussions 
gave me fresh ideas for my research. 
I gave my presentation entitled “Recent Developments in Biopotential Recording-Low-noise 
recording and a drift tolerant circuit,” on 7. October 2009. The presentation was well received. The 
outline of my talk is as follows: 
The recording of very small physiological signals using integrated circuits has become practicable 
with the recent advances in technology. Miniaturization of sensors and systems for the acquisition 
of body functions enables the interconnection of several sensors to form a network to collect and 
process data from different recording sites on or within the body. Applications for on-body sensing 
include wearable biomedical systems, such as for the recording of the electrocardiogram (ECG) or 
pressure fluctuations using transducers. Neural afferent signals generated by natural sensors within 
the body can be used to obtain information such as skin contact, force, and position, so they may be 
used in closed-loop implanted neuroprostheses. 
Although the area of bio-potential recording has been researched for some time, there is still much 
demand for improved systems for real-time recording. Especially the miniaturization of the 
recording system and its power optimization is the topic of current research. There is also a demand 
for recording methods with improved functionality, e.g. velocity selective recording. The recorded 
data can ultimately be used as inputs for systems for a variety of diagnostic and rehabilitation 
applications. 
A common challenge in the recording of most bio-potentials is their small amplitude in the presence 
of noise, drift and offset voltages requiring preamplification with a typical gain in the range of 
hundreds of V/V. In this seminar some recent developments in circuit design for bio-potential 
recording are discussed and illustrated using examples from the presenter’s work. Specifically, 
examples including implantable electronics for velocitive selective recording and for a wearable 
device for ECG acquisition are given. Firstly, the presentation introduces the basic idea of 
velocity-selective recording and takes a brief look at the aspect of low-noise design of the recording 
front-end. In the second part, the problem of limited signal range in the presence of drift and 
interference is introduced and an integrated circuit solution is discussed. It dynamically extends the 
recording range of a system using a mixed-signal approach. 
 
表 Y04 
I travelled to Germany to give a lecture presentation on December 21 at the conference on the 
premises of Frangenberg Baubiology company in Korschenbroich, Germany. I presented a 
talk on the topic of measuring environmental and biophysiological parameters using advanced 
electronic equipment. 
Also, I attend the keynote presentation given by the company CEO. He introduced the 
business of building and environmental biology as follows. The current state of biology in 
health and living according to the national standard SBM-2008 is composed of three factors, 
each with several subsections: A) fields, waves, radiation , B) Residential toxins, pollutants, 
climate, C) fungi, bacteria, allergens. The health ministers and health insurance companies 
warn that 30% of all diseases caused environmental conditions are disturbed by, any third 
party is ill due to environmental impact. Electric pollution is one of the most common causes 
of poor living environments. The services offered by the company include all the above three 
groups A, B, C.  Measurement expertise and individual advice are offered on how far a 
person is involved and ways to reduce / remedy can be proposed.  
During my stay in Germany I visited the company labs and learned about the different types 
of equipment used, ranging from radiation detection to electromagnetic interference 
measurement. Also some of the services offered to remedy the effect of electromagnetic 
coupling were demonstrated and discussed. These include shielding using a faradyic cage type 
of setup. However, this screening is not always found to be totally effective. Therefore, 
individual measurement has to be performed on each location. Such measurements require 
expert training and are both time consuming and expensive. Therefore, we discussed the 
possibility of devising stand-alone, low-cost integrated devices for this kind of application. 
The major stumbling block is the limited number of units required worldwide, which 
increases the per unit production costs.  
The interesting and enlightening discussions gave me valuable insights into the 
state-of-the-art of circuit and system application in a commercial environment. In general, 
attending Frangenberg Baubiologie was a very pleasant and fruitful journey; not only it 
broadened my knowledge in advanced system application, but it also helps me a lot in 
improving my research focus and generating new ideas for this and following projects. 
 
 
 
 
97年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：勞伯特律格 計畫編號：97-2221-E-110-001-MY2 
計畫名稱：整合型多頻道神經中樞信號(ENG)紀錄系統 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 1 1 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
