 1
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
鏈路自適應多輸入多輸出正交分頻多工存取系統之 
先進型訊號處理演算法研究 
Advanced Signal Processing Algorithms for Link-Adaptive 
MIMO-OFDMA Systems 
 
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-260-003 
執行期限：96 年 8 月 1 日至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：李彥文 國立暨南國際大學 通訊工程研究所 助理教授 
Email: ymlee@ncnu.edu.tw 
 
一、中文摘要 
 
適應性平行干擾消除法可應用於多輸
入多輸出通訊系統之訊號檢測，但在時變通
道環境中會因為錯誤漫延而影響其效能。在
此計畫中，我們提出一基於最小變異法則之
二階平行干擾消除器以解決此問題，其中利
用了決策迴授廣義旁波帶消除器以更有效
地建構最小變異法則。於第一階之消除器
中，我們使用了一特別設計之雙重決策迴授
廣義旁波帶消除器，並使用最小均方法適應
性地加以實現。模擬結果顯示於時變通道環
境中我們所提出之適應性平行干擾消除法
能明顯的優於傳統之適應性平行干擾消除
法。 
由於本計畫原本提出之執行期為兩
年，後經貴會修訂為一年，所以鏈路自適應
正交分頻多工存取之研究尚未完成，此部份
將留作我們未來主要的研究方向。 
 
關鍵詞：多輸入多輸出、平行干擾消除法、
最小均方法、廣義旁波帶消除器 
 
Abstract 
 
Adaptive parallel interference cancellation 
(PIC) has been recently proposed for the 
signal detection in multiple-input 
multiple-output (MIMO) systems. However, it 
suffers from error propagation when operated 
in time-varying channels. In this project, an 
adaptive two-stage PIC with the minimum 
variance (MV) criterion is proposed to solve 
the problem. Adaptation with the MV criterion 
is realized with a decision feedback 
generalized sidelobe canceller (DFGSC). In 
the first-stage cancellation, a special structure 
involving dual DFGSCs is developed. All 
adaptation operations are implemented with 
the least-mean-square (LMS) algorithm. 
Simulations show that the proposed adaptive 
PIC detection can significantly outperform the 
conventional adaptive PIC detection in 
time-varying MIMO channel environments. 
Since the period of the project is shortened to 
one year only, the part of link-adaptive 
orthogonal frequency division multiple access 
(OFDMA) is not finished. This can be served 
as our future research direction. 
 
Keywords: Multiple-input multiple-output 
(MIMO), parallel interference cancellation 
(PIC), least-mean-square (LMS) algorithm, 
generalized sidelobe canceller (GSC). 
 
二、前言與研究目的 
 
Since the research of future generation of 
wireless communication systems has focused 
on providing higher data rate with increased 
spectral efficiency and improving 
communication reliability, in principle, 
multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) and 
orthogonal frequency division multiple access 
(OFDMA) can be combined to fulfill the 
task. Such is indeed an active topic within the 
IEEE 802.16/20 standardization bodies. 
MIMO-OFDMA can offer the benefits of both 
 3
time. However, if we want to keep the good 
performance over a long-term period, the 
signal matched filter wq(k) and the blocking 
matrix B(k) in the DFGSC have  to be 
properly updated. Here, we propose a simple 
method to do the job. First, define a diagonal 
matrix as 
P(k) = Diag｛(hH(k)h(k))－１h(k)｝  
where h(k) is the corresponding channel 
vector. This matrix, called the steering matrix, 
is used to pre-steer the look direction of the 
DFGSC. In other words, the received signal 
vector is preferably multiplied by the matrix. 
With this operation, wq(k) will become a 
time-invariant vector with components of all 
ones, denoted as 1, and B(k) can be any 
time-invariant orthogonal matrix, denoted as 
B. 
However, since P(k) and the interference 
cancelling filter wa(k) are connected in series, 
continuous update of P(k) may yield always 
un-convergent wa(k). Since the DFGSC can 
resist constraint mismatch, there is no need to 
update the steering matrix continuously; 
periodic update is more appropriate. There is 
also one problem associated with periodic 
update. The abrupt change of the steering 
matrix will make wa(k) deviate from its 
optimum state instantaneously. As a result, the 
performance will be degraded until wa(k) 
reconverges. To solve this problem, we 
propose to use a dual-DFGSC structure, as 
illustrated in Fig. 2, for each branch in the 
first stage. These two adaptive DFGSCs are 
operated  simultaneously and 
complementarily. Fig. 3 describes the update 
and decision output relation for the 
dual-DFGSC structure. In this project, we also 
analyze the convergence behavior of the 
proposed DFGSC operated in time-varying 
channel environments. A guideline for the 
determination of the update period and step 
size is provided. Note that the analysis is 
difficult and has not been done before even for 
the conventional GSC. Details are omitted 
here but can be found in our conference 
paper and journal paper generated by this 
project [10], [11] (for [11], please see the 
appendix). 
 
五、結果與討論 
 
In this project, computer simulations are 
conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness of 
the proposed adaptive two-stage DFGSC-PIC 
detection scheme for time-varying MIMO 
channels. We first show the learning curves of 
the output signal-to-interference plus noise 
ratio (SINR). Transmission is over 
independent time-varying flat Rayleigh fading 
channels. Assume that the channel response is 
perfectly known after initial training. For 
comparison, we also consider a two-stage 
minimum mean-squared-error (MMSE)-PIC 
detector. The same channel tracking 
mechanism is used for the MMSE-PIC, and 
the step sizes in all LMS adaptations are 
chosen to optimize the performance. Fig. 4 
shows the learning curves of the output SINR 
in the first and second stages of the 
DFGSC-PIC and the MMSE-PIC. For the 
DFGSC-PIC in the first stage, it is clear that 
the update of the steering matrix P(k) does not 
affect the learning behavior. The output 
SINRs in both stages remain unchanged. This 
shows that our DFGSC-PIC is quite robust in 
the time-varying MIMO channel. In the same 
figure, we observe that the MMSE-PIC cannot 
track this changing environment. The SINR 
values for both stages of the MMSE-PIC 
degrade continuously due to error propagation. 
We next show the symbol-error-rate (SER) 
performance for the environment described 
previously. We compare the DFGSC-PIC with 
the MMSE-PIC and the V-BLAST system 
with parameters updated blockwisely [12]. 
The V-BLAST system re-calculates the 
detection order and weight vectors with the 
MMSE criterion in the beginning of each 
block. Hence, the smaller the block length is, 
the better the performance is expected, but the 
higher the computational complexity it 
requires. Usually, the V-BLAST system can 
perform very well provided that the channel is 
exactly known. However, if the V-BLAST 
system only updates in a blockwise manner in 
time-varying channel environments, its 
performance will be significantly degraded, 
especially when the update interval is large. In 
general, the computational complexity for 
calculating both the detection order and 
weight vectors is on the order of O(M3+M2N) 
[13]. While the DFGSC-PIC is more complex 
than the MMSE-PIC, the computational 
complexity of both adaptive PIC schemes 
 5
)(1ˆ kd
)(ˆ2 kd
)(ˆ kdM
Mw~
1
~w
2
~w
1wˆ
2wˆ
Mwˆ
)(~1 kd
)(~2 kd
)(~ kdM
)(1ˆ kr
)(ˆ2 kr
)(ˆ kMr
 
Fig. 1 General two-stage PIC detection scheme for MIMO systems. 
 
 
)(b kw
)(~1 kd )(ˆ kd
)(a kw
)(~2 kd
)(a kw
)(b kw
)(~ kd
 
Fig. 2  The proposed dual-DFGSC structure (for the first stage of DFGSC-PIC). 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期： 年 月 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：鏈路自適應多輸入多輸出正交分頻多工存取系統之先進
型訊號處理演算法研究 
計畫主持人： 李彥文        
計畫編號： NSC 96-2221-E-260-003    學門領域：    通訊
技術/創作名稱 Adaptive two-stage GSC-based PIC detection for time-varying MIMO channels 
發明人/創作人 李彥文 
中文： 
適應性平行干擾消除法可應用於多輸入多輸出通訊系統之訊號檢
測，但在時變通道環境中會因為錯誤漫延而影響其效能。在此計畫
中，我們提出一基於最小變異法則之二階平行干擾消除器以解決此
問題，其中利用了決策迴授廣義旁波帶消除器以更有效地建構最小
變異法則。於第一階之消除器中，我們使用了一特別設計之雙重決
策迴授廣義旁波帶消除器，並使用最小均方法適應性地加以實現。
模擬結果顯示於時變通道環境中我們所提出之適應性平行干擾消
除法能明顯的優於傳統之適應性平行干擾消除法。 
技術說明 
英文： 
Adaptive parallel interference cancellation (PIC) has been recently 
proposed for the signal detection in multiple-input multiple-output 
(MIMO) systems. However, it suffers from error propagation when 
operated in time-varying channels. In this project, an adaptive 
two-stage PIC with the minimum variance (MV) criterion is proposed 
to solve the problem. Adaptation with the MV criterion is realized with 
a decision feedback generalized sidelobe canceller (DFGSC). In the 
first-stage cancellation, a special structure involving dual DFGSCs is 
developed. All adaptation operations are implemented with the 
least-mean-square (LMS) algorithm. Simulations show that the 
proposed adaptive PIC detection can significantly outperform the 
conventional adaptive PIC detection in time-varying MIMO channel 
environments. 
 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
各種使用多輸入多輸出之無線通訊系統 
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 7, NO. 4, APRIL 2008 1105
Transactions Letters
Adaptive Two-Stage GSC-Based PIC Detection for
Time-Varying MIMO Channels
Yinman Lee, Member, IEEE, and Wen-Rong Wu, Member, IEEE
Abstract— Adaptive parallel interference cancellation (PIC)
has been recently proposed for the signal detection in multiple-
input multiple-output (MIMO) systems. However, it suffers from
error propagation when operated in time-varying channels. In
this letter, an adaptive two-stage PIC with the minimum variance
(MV) criterion is proposed to solve the problem. Adaptation with
the MV criterion is realized with a decision feedback generalized
sidelobe canceller (DFGSC). In the first-stage cancellation, a spe-
cial structure involving dual DFGSCs is developed. All adaptation
operations are implemented with the least-mean-square (LMS)
algorithm. Simulations show that the proposed adaptive PIC
detection can significantly outperform the conventional adaptive
PIC detection in time-varying MIMO channel environments.
Index Terms— Multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO), par-
allel interference cancellation (PIC), least-mean-square (LMS)
algorithm, generalized sidelobe canceller (GSC).
I. INTRODUCTION
IN recent years, much attention is paid to the developmentof multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) systems. With
multiple antennas at both the transmitter and the receiver,
the spectral efficiency of a communication system can be
increased dramatically [1]. A successive interference cancel-
lation (SIC) approach, known as the vertical Bell Laboratories
layered space-time (V-BLAST) system, is commonly used
to achieve a substantial portion of the Shannon capacity
for MIMO channels [2]. However, the V-BLAST algorithm
requires high computational complexity, and the ordering
operation inherent in the SIC structure often increases the
processing delay and restricts the use of adaptive realization.
Generally, there is still no efficient way for the V-BLAST
system to work in time-varying channel environments.
Lately, parallel interference cancellation (PIC) detection
schemes were proposed for the signal detection in MIMO
systems [3]-[6]. In contrast to SIC, PIC detects different data
symbols from different transmit antennas in parallel and it
Manuscript received May 7, 2006; revised November 13, 2006, June 25,
2007, and December 11, 2007; accepted January 16, 2008. The associate
editor coordinating the review of this letter and approving it for publication
was X. Wang. This work was supported by the National Science Council,
Taiwan, R.O.C., under Grant NSC 96-2219-E-009-018.
Y. Lee is with the Graduate Institute of Communication Engineering, Na-
tional Chi Nan University, Puli, Taiwan, R.O.C. (e-mail: ymlee@ncnu.edu.tw).
W.-R. Wu is with the Department of Communication Engineer-
ing, National Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu, Taiwan, R.O.C. (e-mail:
wrwu@faculty.nctu.edu.tw).
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TWC.2008.060238.
is generally implemented with a multistage structure. It has
the advantages of low computational complexity and low
processing delay. Since PIC does not require the ordering
operation, it is more adequate for adaptive implementations.
The conventional adaptive PIC can provide satisfactory per-
formance when the channel is static or varies only slightly,
but its performance can be significantly degraded in ordinary
changing environments. This is due to the error propagation
effect inherent in the multistage PIC structure.
In this letter, we propose a new adaptive PIC scheme
to improve the MIMO detection performance, especially in
time-varying environments. Our emphasis is on the two-stage
PIC throughout the letter. The optimization is based on the
minimum variance (MV) criterion [7]. The MV detector can be
realized adaptively with the generalized sidelobe cancellation
(GSC) structure [8]. However, the conventional adaptive GSC
suffers from the problems of slow convergence and lack of
robustness. Recently, a decision feedback generalized sidelobe
canceller (DFGSC) has been proposed and the problems in-
herent in GSC are solved successfully [9]. Here, we extend the
use of the DFGSC. We employ a dual-DFGSC structure and
propose an adaptive DFGSC-based PIC for the MIMO signal
detection. This can effectively outperform the conventional
adaptive PIC under time-varying channels. All adaptations are
based on the simple yet efficient least-mean-square (LMS)
algorithm. This will keep the overall computational complexity
at a low level and make the proposed scheme feasible for
real-world applications. Convergence analysis in time-varying
environments is also provided. Simulation results confirm that
the proposed adaptive PIC detection can perform significantly
better than the conventional adaptive PIC detection in chang-
ing channel environments.
Throughout the letter, we use the superscripts (·)∗, (·)T ,
and (·)H to denote conjugation, transposition, and Hermitian
transposition, respectively. Also, the operators Dec{·}, E{·},
‖·‖, Diag{·}, and Tr{·} represent decision, statistical expecta-
tion, two-norm, diagonal matrix construction, and matrix trace
operations, respectively.
II. MIMO SIGNAL MODEL AND PARALLEL
INTERFERENCE CANCELLATION (PIC)
Consider a wireless communication system with M anten-
nas at the transmitter and N antennas at the receiver, assuming
1536-1276/08$25.00 © 2008 IEEE
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 7, NO. 4, APRIL 2008 1107
in the first stage of the PIC. Since the structure and the
corresponding processing are identical for each data stream
in the first stage, we drop the subscript m, and use w(k) to
denote the weight vector, d(k) the transmitted data symbol,
d˜(k) the output decision, and h(k) the channel response to
simplify the notation. The MV criterion is used for optimizing
w(k) [7], i.e.,
min
w(k)
wH(k)R(k)w(k), subject to hH(k)w(k) = 1 (6)
where R(k) = E{r(k)rH(k)} is the input correlation matrix.
It is well-known that the GSC is an alternative formulation for
the MV criterion. It includes an N -tap signal matched filter
wq(k), an N×(N−1) blocking matrix B(k), and an (N−1)-
tap interference cancelling filter wa(k), with w(k) = wq(k)−
B(k)wa(k). The span of B(k) is designed to fall into the null
space of hH(k), and the signal-matching operation is simply
wq(k) = (hH(k)h(k))−1h(k). In [9], a decision feedback
operation was introduced to the conventional adaptive GSC to
overcome the problems of slow convergence and sensitivity to
constraint mismatch. A single-tap filter wb(k) was added to
the feedback process, and this was referred to as the DFGSC.
We use this DFGSC for the adaptive realization of the MV
detector. A new cost function for the optimization of both
wa(k) and wb(k) is given by
min
wa(k),wb(k)
E{|e(k)|2}
= min
wa(k),wb(k)
E{|(wq(k)−B(k)wa(k))Hr(k)
−w∗b(k)d˜(k)|2}. (7)
Note that the difference between (7) and the original criterion
for the DFGSC is that the time-varying nature is considered
in the formulation. For simplicity, we assume that the output
decision for the desired data symbol is correct, i.e., d˜(k) =
d(k). Following the procedure in [9], we can derive
wa,opt(k) = (BH(k)R(k)B(k))−1BH(k)R(k)wq(k) (8)
wb,opt(k) = hH(k)wq(k) = 1. (9)
The performance of the DFGSC can be greatly improved
by the feedback operation when compared with that of the
conventional GSC. Detailed derivations are omitted here but
can be found in [9]. Similar to (4), the LMS update equations
for the DFGSC can be expressed as wa(k + 1) = wa(k) +
μav(k)e∗(k) and wb(k + 1) = wb(k) + μbd˜(k)e∗(k), where
μa and μb are the step sizes for wa(k) and wb(k), v(k) =
BH(k)r(k) is the input vector for wa(k), and e(k) is the error
signal as that given in (7), respectively.
B. Adaptive DFGSC-PIC with Dual-DFGSC Structure
Next, we propose an adaptive DFGSC-based PIC detection
scheme for MIMO systems, in which a special dual structure
of the DFGSC is applied for adaptive implementations in time-
varying environments. The DFGSC is quite robust whenever
the channel response changes moderately. The performance
degradation can be ignored when it is operated within a
short period of time. However, if we want to keep the good
performance over a long-term period, wq(k) and B(k) have
to be properly updated. Here, we propose a simple method to
do the job. First, define a diagonal matrix as
P(k) = Diag{(hH(k)h(k))−1h(k)}. (10)
This matrix, called the steering matrix, is used to pre-steer
the look direction of the DFGSC. In other words, the received
signal vector is preferably multiplied by the matrix. With this
operation, wq(k) will become a time-invariant vector with
components of all ones, denoted as 1, and B(k) can be a time-
invariant orthogonal matrix, denoted as B. With B chosen
carefully, the computational complexity for signal blocking
can be significantly reduced. For the case of N = 2l, where
l is any nonnegative integer, a simple choice for B is the
Hadamard matrix excluding the first column. For the case that
N = 2l, B can still be designed to achieve low complexity as
reported in [12]. With this architecture, only P(k) has to be
updated.
Another problem is how to acquire the up-to-date channel
response. With feedback decisions, this can be easily solved
using a channel estimator. Let the coefficients of the channel
estimator be denoted as q(k), which is an N × 1 vector. It
can be tuned by a new error signal vector eq(k), and the
optimization can be written as
min
q(k)
E{‖eq(k)‖2} = min
q(k)
E{‖r(k)− q(k)dˆ(k)‖2}. (11)
To have better performance, we use the output decision in
the second stage of the PIC, i.e., dˆ(k), as the input to the
channel estimator. Also note that the estimation exists over all
parallel branches. With the assumption of correct decisions,
it is not difficult to show that the optimum q(k), denoted as
qopt(k), will be equal to h(k). The LMS algorithm is used
to approach qopt(k) recursively, and the update equation is
expressed as q(k + 1) = q(k) + μqdˆ∗(k)eq(k), where μq is
the step size for the adaptation. In many cases, the input to
q(k) is a white sequence, which owns the smallest eigenvalue
spread of the input correlation matrix. As the convergence
rate of the LMS algorithm is inversely proportional to the
eigenvalue spread [11], the adaptation of q(k) is expected
to be fast and stable. With the application of the steering
matrix and the channel estimator, the adaptive DFGSC can
be operated in time-varying environments. However, since
P(k) and wa(k) are connected in series, continuous update
of P(k) may yield always un-convergent wa(k). Since the
DFGSC can resist constraint mismatch, there is no need to
update the steering matrix continuously; periodic update is
more appropriate. There is also one problem associated with
periodic update. The abrupt change of the steering matrix will
make wa(k) deviate from its optimum state instantaneously.
As a result, the performance will be degraded until wa(k)
re-converges. To solve this problem, we propose to use a
dual-DFGSC structure, as illustrated in Fig. 2, for each branch
in the first stage. These two adaptive DFGSCs are operated
simultaneously and complementarily. We let P(k) and d˜(k)
in the first DFGSC be donated as P1(k) and d˜1(k), and
those in the second DFGSC as P2(k) and d˜2(k). Both P1(k)
and P2(k) are updated periodically in different time instants,
and only one of d˜1(k) and d˜2(k) is selected as the decision
passed to the second stage and used as the reference signal
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 7, NO. 4, APRIL 2008 1109
At time instant k + 1, interference from h(k + 1) is also
perfectly cancelled. We will have
wHq h(k + 1) = w
H
a,opt(k + 1)B
Hh(k + 1). (15)
Substituting (13) and (14) into (15), we obtain
N−1∑
n=1
w∗n(k)b
H
n h(k) +w
H
q η(k)
=
N−1∑
n=1
w∗n(k + 1)b
H
n (h(k) + η(k)). (16)
Now, assume that the variation term wHq η(k) in (16) can be
evenly cancelled by each weight element in wa,opt(k). We
then have
w∗n(k)b
H
n h(k)+
1
N − 1w
H
q η(k) = w
∗
n(k+1)b
H
n (h(k)+η(k))
(17)
for 1 ≤ n ≤ N − 1. After some manipulation, we can obtain
the following approximation:
w∗n(k + 1)  w∗n(k) +
1
N − 1
wHq η(k)
bHn h(k)
. (18)
From (18), we can write wa,opt(k + 1) = wa,opt(k) + ω(k),
where ω(k) is the process noise vector with its elements
defined as the second term in (18). Therefore, we see that
the optimum weight vector wa,opt(k) can also be modeled
as a random walk process. Note that E{|wHq η(k)|2} = σ2η
and E{|bHn h(k)|2} = 1/N . Thus, the variance of each
component in ω(k) is Nσ2η/(N − 1)2. For the scenario of
multiple interfering streams, (14) and (15) can be modified
to include multiple channel vectors. With the derived random
walk process, we can formulate the adaptation of wa(k) as
a time-varying system identification problem. Let v(k) =
BHH´(k)i(k), where H´(k) is the channel matrix excluding
the column corresponding to the desired data symbol, and i(k)
is the vector consisting of interfering data streams. For this
interference only system, the input to the system is v(k) and
the output of the system is wHa,opt(k)v(k)+z(k), where z(k) is
white noise with zero mean and variance σ2z . The filter wa(k)
is then used to identify wa,opt(k). Following the analysis pro-
cedure in [11, Ch. 14], we can readily find the optimum step
size for wa(k) as μa,opt 
√
Tr{Ω}/(σ2zTr{Rv}), where Rv
is the correlation matrix of the input vector v(k), and Ω is the
covariance matrix of ω(k) given by Ω = (Nσ2η/(N − 1)2)I,
with I being an identity matrix. After that, we can discuss
the determination of the update period L. The period should
be long enough for wa(k) to converge, and short enough for
constraint mismatch to remain small. The settling time of the
LMS algorithm is proportional to the average time constant
[11], which is approximated as τav ≈ 1/(2μaλav), where λav
is the average eigenvalue for the underlying correlation matrix,
i.e., Rv in our scenario. As a rule of thumb, we choose two
times of τav for a good trade-off between the convergence of
wa(k) and the mismatch experienced by the DFGSC.
V. SIMULATION RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS
Computer simulations are conducted to demonstrate the
effectiveness of the proposed adaptive two-stage DFGSC-PIC
TABLE I
PARAMETERS USED IN SIMULATIONS
Parameters Values
Normalized Doppler frequency 5× 10−4
(fdTs)
M 2
N 4
Modulation 16 quadrature amplitude modulation
(16-QAM)
SNR 20 dB
μa,opt 6.0× 10−3
L 2τav  17
Frame size 1024
100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000
0
5
10
15
20
25
Number of symbols
Ou
tp
ut
 SI
NR
 (d
B)
2nd stage in DFGSC−PIC
1st stage in DFGSC−PIC
2nd stage in MMSE−PIC
1st stage in MMSE−PIC
Fig. 4. Learning curves of PIC output SINR with fdTs = 5 × 10−4 and
SNR = 20 dB.
detection scheme for time-varying MIMO channels. We first
show the learning curves of the output signal-to-interference
plus noise ratio (SINR). The parameters used are listed in
Table 1. Transmission is over independent time-varying flat
Rayleigh fading channels. Assume that the channel response
is perfectly known after initial training. For comparison, we
also consider a two-stage MMSE-PIC detector. The same
channel tracking mechanism is used for the MMSE-PIC, and
the step sizes in all LMS adaptations are chosen to optimize
the performance. Fig. 4 shows the learning curves of the
output SINR in the first and second stages of the DFGSC-
PIC and the MMSE-PIC. For the DFGSC-PIC in the first
stage, it is clear that the update of the steering matrix does not
affect the learning behavior. The output SINRs in both stages
remain unchanged. This shows that our DFGSC-PIC is quite
robust in the time-varying MIMO channel. In the same figure,
we observe that the MMSE-PIC cannot track this changing
environment. The SINR values for both stages of the MMSE-
PIC degrade continuously due to error propagation.
We next show the symbol-error-rate (SER) performance
for the environment described previously. We compare the
DFGSC-PIC with the MMSE-PIC and the V-BLAST system
with parameters updated blockwisely [14]. The V-BLAST sys-
□ 赴國外出差或研習 
□ 赴大陸地區出差或研習 
■ 出席國際學術會議 
□ 國際合作研究計畫出國 
□ 參加教育研習營 
心得報告 
計 畫 名 稱 鏈路自適應多輸入多輸出
正交分頻多工存取系統之
先進型訊號處理演算法研
究 
計 畫 編 號 NSC 96-2221-E-260-003 
出 國 人 
姓 名 李彥文 
服 務 機 構
及 職 稱
國立暨南國際大學通訊工程
研究所 助理教授 
會 議 時 間 及 
地 點 
2008/5/11-2008/5/14  新加坡 
會 議 名 稱 2008 IEEE 67
th Vehicular Technology Conference  
(IEEE VTC 2008-Spring)  
發表論文題目 
1. SER and Optimal Power Allocation for DF Cooperative Communications 
over Nakagami-m Fading Channels 
2. Adaptive Minimum Variance Detection for Spatial Multiplexing over 
Time-Varying MIMO Channels 
 
一、主要任務摘要 
參加在新加坡舉行之國際學術會議IEEE VTC 2008-Spring，藉此與各國通訊網路領
域之專家進行討論和分享研究成果。 
 
二、對計劃之效益 
藉由參與IEEE VTC 2008-Spring了解目前先進國家於相關領域之研究和發展目
標，期望為本計劃定出更具有前瞻性的方向。 
 
三、經過 
  會議於新加坡舉行，為期四天（5/11-5/14），許多來自世界各地相關的知名學者聚
集於此，發表其最新之研究成果。會議提供了6組Tutorial、63組Oral Session和9組Poster 
Session，內容之豐富可見一斑。 
 
  Plenary分別邀請到Dr. Victor Bahl (Microsoft Research) 、L. Hanzo (Univ. of 
Southamption) 、F. Adachi (Tohoku Univ.) 、K.-C. Chen (Natl. Taiwan Unvi.)和G. Fettweis 
(Technische Univ. Dresden)作出了對通訊網路領域極具啟發性的演說和討論，特別是Dr. 
Victor Bahl提及有關Pervasive Connectivity之概念，其深入淺出的解說另本人對此研究
方向非常有興趣，對通訊網路的架構帶來另一層面的認識。 
 
  本人亦參與了不同Session之報告和討論，對許多新技術有了更深刻的了解。其中
包括現時非常流行的以Cross-Layer作考量對通訊網路進行設計和優化，會議中有不少
論文皆圍繞此主題之可行性作出深入的探討。學者們提出了很多新的構想，同時亦展
現出仍有不少有待努力之處，這些都為自己的研究提供了重要的參考資料。此外，很
SER and Optimal Power Allocation for DF Cooperative
Communications over Nakagami-m Fading Channels
Ming-Hung Tsai
Graduate Institute of Communication Engineering
National Chi Nan University
Puli, Taiwan, R.O.C.
Email: s95325522@ncnu.edu.tw
Yinman Lee
Graduate Institute of Communication Engineering
National Chi Nan University
Puli, Taiwan, R.O.C.
Email: ymlee@ncnu.edu.tw
Abstract—In this paper, we analyze the symbol-error-rate
(SER) performance of decode-and-forward (DF) cooperative
communications over Nakagami-m fading channels. For the
classical three-node cooperation model, which includes a source,
a relay and a destination, the exact SER expressions forM -phase
shift keying (PSK) and M -quadrature amplitude modulation
(QAM) are derived. For easy usage, we provide asymptotic
approximations for the SER as well. In addition, optimal power
allocation is investigated based on the derived asymptotic SER
expressions. Simulations are finally provided to verify the cor-
rectness of our analysis.
Keywords—Cooperative communications, decode-and-forward
(DF) protocol, Nakagami-m fading, symbol-error-rate (SER),
optimal power allocation.
I. INTRODUCTION
In the last few years, a new approach of diversity, co-
operative diversity, has been proposed to combat the ef-
fect of multipath fading [1], [2]. It exploits the broadcast
nature of wireless transmission, which essentially lets the
communication terminal equipped with single antenna enjoy
the performance gain from spatial diversity. In a cooperation
system, some surrounding users (communication terminals)
will act as relays, processing the possible received signal
and forwarding it to the destination. This leads to multiple
copies of independent fading signal paths at the destination,
and thus brings diversity. This new form of diversity is called
cooperative diversity as it comes from user cooperation.
Within the research of cooperative diversity, one commonly
used protocol for the transmission between the source and
destination through relays is the decode-and-forward (DF)
protocol, in which the relays decode the received signal first,
re-encode it, and then transmit it to the destination. Despite the
multiplying numbers of published works and current studies on
the general theme of the DF cooperative diversity during the
past few years, most of them have focused on the capacity,
diversity gain, and outage probability analysis, mainly over
Rayleigh fading channel environments. To our best knowledge,
very few research works considered the true error probability
over general fading channels. In [3] and [4], the symbol-error-
rate (SER) performance for the DF cooperation was analyzed
This work was supported by the National Science Council, Taiwan, R.O.C.,
under Grant NSC 96-2221-E-260-003
sdh
srh rdhS
R
D
Fig. 1. Three-node relay model for uplink communications.
over Rayleigh fading channels. The authors in [5] and [6]
examined the outage probability for the DF protocol over
Nakagami-m fading channels. Most recently, the bit-error-rate
(BER) and SER performance for the DF cooperation has been
derived over Nakagami-m fading channels in [7] and [8],
respectively. However, their results only suit M -phase shift
keying (PSK) signals.
In this paper, we analyze the SER performance of DF
cooperative communications over Nakagami-m fading chan-
nels. We focus on the classical three-node cooperation model,
which includes a source, a relay and a destination. The exact
SER expressions for M -PSK and M -quadrature amplitude
modulation (QAM) are derived. For easy usage, we provide
asymptotic approximations for the SER as well. In addition,
optimal power allocation is investigated based on the derived
asymptotic SER expressions. Note that only partial channel
state information (CSI), i.e., the Nakagami fading figures and
variances for the channels, is required for the determination
of how much power should be allocated to the source and
relay to optimize the SER performance. Simulations are finally
provided to verify the correctness of our analysis.
II. THREE-NODE COOPERATION MODEL
Fig. 1 shows a simplified two-hop cooperation model with
single relay (i.e., the classical three-node relay model). The
figure presents a typical usage of cooperative communications
for the uplink of cellular wireless communication systems.
This makes the handset equipped with single antenna achieve
the transmit spatial diversity for link-quality improvement. The
DF cooperation protocol considered here is realized over two
consecutive time slots (or other forms of orthogonal channels).
978-1-4244-1645-5/08/$25.00  ©2008 IEEE 1251
×
(
1− FPSK
((
1 +
P1ΩsrgPSK
N0msr sin2 θ
)−msr))
(8)
where FPSK (v(θ)) = (1/π)
∫ (M−1)π/M
0
v(θ)dθ. Conse-
quently, given the necessary channel parameters, we can use
(8) to evaluate the SER with M -PSK signals over Nakagami-
m fading channels numerically. Likewise, for the DF coop-
eration with (square) M -QAM signals, the conditional SER
under an arbitrary SNR γ is written as [10]
PQAM(γ) = 4
(
1− 1√
M
)
Q
(√
2γgQAM
)
−4
(
1− 1√
M
)2
Q2
(√
2γgQAM
) (9)
where gQAM = 3/(2(M − 1)) and Q(u) =
(1/
√
2π)
∫ u
0
exp(−t2/2)dt is the Gaussian Q-
function. In the calculation, we may use the results:
Q(u) = (1/π)
∫ π/2
0
exp
(−u2/(2 sin2 θ)) dθ and
Q2(u) = (1/π)
∫ π/4
0
exp
(−u2/(2 sin2 θ)) dθ for u ≥ 0.
Following the same procedure for the derivation of PPSK in
(8), we can obtain the exact SER with M -QAM signals for
the DF cooperation as
PQAM
= FQAM
((
1 +
P1ΩsdgQAM
N0msd sin2 θ
)−msd)
×FQAM
((
1 +
P1ΩsrgQAM
N0msr sin2 θ
)−msr)
+FQAM
((
1 +
P1ΩsdgQAM
N0msd sin2 θ
)−msd
×
(
1 +
P2ΩrdgQAM
N0mrd sin2 θ
)−mrd)
×
(
1− FQAM
((
1 +
P1ΩsrgQAM
N0msr sin2 θ
)−msr))
(10)
where
FQAM (v(θ)) =
4
π
(
1− 1√
M
)∫ π/2
0
v(θ)dθ
− 4
π
(
1− 1√
M
)2 ∫ π/4
0
v(θ)dθ. (11)
Therefore, given the Nakagami-m fading figures and channel
variances for hsd, hsr and hrd, we can calculate the SER for
the DF cooperation with M -QAM signals over Nakagami-m
fading channels numerically.
B. Asymptotic Approximation for SER
Observe that the SER expressions found previously involve
very complex integrals which are difficult to evaluate. Next,
for easy usage, we derive asymptotic approximations for the
SER in (8) and (10) with M -PSK and M -QAM signals,
respectively. In the cooperation network, when the SNR values
for the three channels are sufficiently large, or equivalently,
P1Ωsd  N0, P1Ωsr  N0 and P2Ωrd  N0, we can write
1 +
P1Ωsdg
N0msd sin2 θ
 P1Ωsdg
N0msd sin2 θ
(12)
1 +
P1Ωsrg
N0msr sin2 θ
 P1Ωsrg
N0msr sin2 θ
(13)
1 +
P2Ωrdg
N0mrd sin2 θ
 P2Ωrdg
N0mrd sin2 θ
(14)
with g = gPSK for M -PSK signals and g = gQAM for M -
QAM signals. Under this premise and the assumption that
Ωsd = 0, Ωsr = 0 and Ωrd = 0, (8) can be approximated
as
PPSK
 FPSK
((
P1ΩsdgPSK
N0msd sin2 θ
)−msd)
×FPSK
((
P1ΩsrgPSK
N0msr sin2 θ
)−msr)
+FPSK
((
P1ΩsdgPSK
N0msd sin2 θ
)−msd ( P2ΩrdgPSK
N0mrd sin2 θ
)−mrd)
(15)
in which we also suppose that when the SNR value for the
source-relay channel is sufficiently large, the SER at the relay
is very low and so
1− FPSK
((
P1ΩsrgPSK
N0msr sin2 θ
)−msr)
 1. (16)
With further simplification, we can obtain
PPSK 
(
N0msd
P1ΩsdgPSK
)msd ( N0msr
P1ΩsrgPSK
)msr
AsdAsr
+
(
N0msd
P1ΩsdgPSK
)msd ( N0mrd
P2ΩrdgPSK
)mrd
Asd−rd
(17)
where
Asd =
1
π
∫ (M−1)π/M
0
sin2msd θdθ (18)
Asr =
1
π
∫ (M−1)π/M
0
sin2msr θdθ (19)
Asd−rd =
1
π
∫ (M−1)π/M
0
sin2(msd+mrd) θdθ. (20)
Note that if 2msd, 2msr and 2(msd +mrd) are integers, Asd,
Asr and Asd−rd will have closed form expressions [11]. Then,
the derived asymptotic SER approximation in (17) can be
calculated much easily. Similarly, with M -QAM signals, we
can derive that
PQAM 
(
N0msd
P1ΩsdgQAM
)msd ( N0msr
P1ΩsrgQAM
)msr
A˜sdA˜sr
+
(
N0msd
P1ΩsdgQAM
)msd ( N0mrd
P2ΩrdgQAM
)mrd
A˜sd−rd
(21)
1253
B. SER with Optimal Power Allocation
Afterwards, Fig. 4 demonstrates the outcome of the pro-
posed optimal power allocation scheme for the DF cooperation
over Nakagami-m fading channels. In the experiments, we set
msd = msr = mrd = m, Ωsr = Ωsd = 1 and Ωrd = 10. In the
figure, we see that when m is small, optimal power allocation
does not give much help to the cooperation network. However,
the SER refinement becomes more observable as m increases.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
Cooperative communications have recently been proposed
to enhance the link quality for wireless communications.
Spatial diversity can be achieved through the help of other
users/communication terminals acting as relays. In this paper,
we considered the two-hop DF cooperation protocol with
single relay over Nakagami-m fading channels. The SER
performance for different DF cooperation scenarios was fully
analyzed. Some guidelines for optimal power allocation based
on partial CSI were obtained in the analysis. Specifically, we
found that optimal power allocation is fairly important for
reducing the SER when the Nakagami fading figures are large
and the channel variances are highly unbalanced. All these
provide the basics for the discussion of the DF cooperation
performance and much understanding about how to apply this
kind of diversity more effectively.
REFERENCES
[1] A. Sendonaris, E. Erkip, and B. Aazhang, “User cooperation diversity-
Part I: System description,” IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. 51, pp. 1927-
1938, Nov. 2003.
[2] A. Sendonaris, E. Erkip, and B. Aazhang, “User cooperation diversity-
Part II: Implementaion aspects and performance analysis,” IEEE Trans.
Commun., vol. 51, pp. 1939-1948, Nov. 2003.
[3] W. Su, A. K. Sadek, and R. J. K. Liu, “SER performance analysis and
optimum power allocation for decode-and-forward cooperation protocol
in wireless networks,” in Proc. IEEE WCNC’05, vol. 2, pp. 984-989,
Mar. 2005, .
[4] A. K. Sadek, W. Su, and R. J. K. Liu, “Performance analysis for multi-
node decode-and-forward relaying in cooperative wireless networks,” in
Proc. IEEE ICASSP’05, vol. 3, pp. 18-23, Mar. 2005.
[5] H. A. Suraweera, P. J. Smith, and J. Armstrong, “Outage probability
of cooperative relay networks in Nakagami-m fading channels,” IEEE
Commun. Lett., vol. 12, pp. 834-836, Dec. 2006.
[6] C. K. Datsikas, N. C. Sagias, F. I. Lazarakis, and G. S. Tombras,
“Outage analysis of decode-and-forward relaying over Nakagami-m
fading channels,” IEEE Signal Process. Lett., vol. 15, pp. 41-44, Jan.
2008.
[7] A. Mu¨ller and J. Speidel, “Exact symbol error probability ofM -PSK for
multihop transmission with regenerative relays,” IEEE Commun. Lett.,
vol. 11, pp. 952-954, Dec. 2007
[8] S. Ikki and M. H. Ahmed, “Performance of decode-and-forward coop-
erative diversity networks over Nakagami-m fading channels,” in Proc.
IEEE GLOBECOM’07, pp. 4328-4333, Nov. 2007.
[9] M. Nakagami, “The m-distribution, a general formula of intensity
distribution of rapid fading,” in Statistical Methods in Radio Wave
Propagaion, W. G. Hoffman, Ed., Oxford, U.K.: Pergamon, 1960.
[10] M. K. Simon and M. S. Alouini, Digital Communication over Fading
Channels, 2nd Ed., Wiley-IEEE Press, 2004.
[11] A. Jeffrey and D. Zwillinger, Talbe of Integrals, Series, and Products,
7th Ed., Academic Press, 2007.
[12] S. Boyd and L. Vandenberghe, Convex Optimization. Cambridge Univ.
Press, 2004.
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40
10−6
10−5
10−4
10−3
10−2
10−1
100
 SNR (dB)
SE
R
 
 
Simulation
Exact SER
Tight approximation
Direct  m = 0.5
Direct  m = 1
Direct  m = 1.5
Direct  m = 2
 m = 2
 m = 1.5
 m = 1
 m = 0.5
Fig. 2. SER performance over different Nakagami-m fading channels
(msd = msr = mrd = m and Ωsd = Ωsr = Ωrd = 1) for 4-PSK
signals.
10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
10−6
10−5
10−4
10−3
10−2
10−1
100
SNR (dB)
SE
R
 
 
Simulation
Exact SER
Tight approximation
Direct  m = 0.5
Direct  m = 1
Direct  m = 1.5
Direct  m = 2
 m = 0.5
 m = 1
 m = 1.5
 m = 2
Fig. 3. SER performance over different Nakagami-m fading channels
(msd = msr = mrd = m and Ωsd = Ωsr = Ωrd = 1) for 16-QAM
signals.
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40
10−10
10−8
10−6
10−4
10−2
100
SNR (db)
SE
R
 
 
Exact SER (Equal power)
Tight approximation (Equal power)
Exact SER (Optimal power)
Tight approximation (Optimal power)
 m = 0.5
 m = 1
 m = 1.5
 m = 2
Fig. 4. SER performance over different Nakagami-m fading channels
(msd = msr = mrd = m, Ωsd = Ωsr = 1 and Ωrd = 10) for 4-PSK
signals.
1255
Then the complete N×M channel matrix for the transmission
of d(k) can be presented as
H(k) = [h1(k) h2(k) · · · hM (k)]. (2)
The data symbols received by all the N antennas yield an
N × 1 signal vector r(k), given by
r(k) = H(k)d(k) + n(k) (3)
where n(k) is an N × 1 complex Gaussian noise vector with
zero mean and equal variance in each dimension. In addition,
all the noise components are assumed to be independent.
III. CONVENTIONAL MMSE DETECTION AND LMS
REALIZATION
To detect the transmitted data symbols, a set of spatial
filters is employed at the receiver. The estimate for the mth
element of d(k) is expressed as dˆm(k) = Dec{wHm(k)r(k)},
where wm(k) is an N × 1 filter weight vector for the
estimation of dm(k). Herein, we treat those data symbols
dj(k) for j = 1, 2, · · · ,M and j = m as interference to
dm(k). Conventionally, to avoid noise enhancement, wm(k)
is optimized through the MMSE criterion [9]. We define the
MMSE cost function (in the decision-directed mode) for the
optimization of wm(k) as
min
wm(k)
E{|e(k)|2} = min
wm(k)
E{|dˆm(k)−wHm(k)r(k)|2}.
(4)
It is well understood that the optimum solution for (4) involves
a matrix inversion, which is not desirable in real-world applica-
tions. This problem becomes more troublesome when channels
are time-varying. As an alternative, the LMS algorithm is
adopted to obtain the weight vector recursively. The update
equation for wm(k) with the LMS algorithm is given by [10]
wm(k + 1) = wm(k) + µr(k)e∗(k) (5)
where µ is the step size controlling the convergence rate.
Usually, training sequences are transmitted to train the adap-
tive filters in the beginning. After convergence, the decision-
directed MMSE tracking operation is activated for subsequent
detection. One problem associated with the decision-directed
mode is the error propagation effect, especially in changing
channel environments. It can seriously affect the MMSE
tracking. In the worst case, the receiver may lose track of the
time-varying MIMO channel. When this occurs, the training
mode has to be re-initiated. It is well understood that the
transmission of training sequences will reduce the bandwidth
utilization efficiency. In the following, we will develop a new
adaptive detection scheme which can continuously track the
changing MIMO channel and thus keep the high transmission
efficiency.
IV. PROPOSED MV DETECTION AND ITS ADAPTIVE
REALIZATION
In this section, an adaptive MV detection scheme for MIMO
systems employing spatial multiplexing is developed. We
assume that the up-to-date CSI is known or can be estimated
at the receiver, which can possibly be done through training
or feedback decision. This CSI can be used to realize the MV
criterion and improve the detection performance. It will be
shown below that the filter weights optimized by the MV
criterion is fairly robust and resistant to error propagation.
At the receiver, since the structure and the corresponding
processing are identical for each data stream, we drop the
subscript m, and use w(k) to denote the weight vector, d(k)
the transmitted data symbol, dˆ(k) the output decision, and
h(k) the channel response to simplify the notation. The MV
criterion determines w(k) through the following minimization:
min
w(k)
wH(k)R(k)w(k), subject to hH(k)w(k) = 1 (6)
where R(k) = E{r(k)rH(k)} is the input correlation matrix.
The idea behind (6) is to minimize the total output power
provided that the data symbol d(k) from a particular stream
is kept at a constant level (with distortionless response in this
case). If we treat the difference between d(k) and the actual
output as noise, this MV criterion will give the maximum
signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) performance. Note that (6) is a
constraint optimization problem. It is well-known that the
GSC is an alternative formulation for the MV criterion [7].
It can transform the constraint optimization problem into an
unconstraint one. Originally, the GSC was proposed for beam-
forming in adaptive array processing [11]. With a designated
look direction, the GSC cancels interference from other direc-
tions. For spatial multiplexing in MIMO systems considered
here, the channel response h(k) can be viewed as the look
direction for d(k). As a result, GSC can be used to perform
the MV detection for MIMO systems. Fig. 1 illustrates the
proposed spatial filter configuration. The structure of GSC is
depicted within the square marked as “Conventional GSC” in
the right part of the figure. This structure can effectively reduce
the computational cost, especially implemented with adaptive
algorithms. We first ignore other components illustrated in the
figure and concentrate on the operation of the conventional
GSC. As shown in the figure, the upper path includes an
N -tap signal matched filter wq(k). The lower path includes
an N × (N − 1) blocking matrix B(k) and an (N − 1)-
tap interference cancelling filter wa(k). The span of B(k) is
designed to fall into the null space of hH(k) and so B(k) can
block the data symbol with channel response h(k) entering
the lower path. We then have an equivalent spatial filter as
w(k) = wq(k) − B(k)wa(k). Using the constraint in (6),
wq(k) can readily be found as wq(k) = (hH(k)h(k))−1h(k),
and wa(k) is optimized according to the output power of the
GSC as
J(k) = E{|y(k)|2}
= E{|(wq(k)−B(k)wa(k))Hr(k)|2}. (7)
The constrained optimization problem in (6) can thus be
rewritten as the following unconstrained one:
min
wa(k)
J(k) = min
wa(k)
(wq(k)−B(k)wa(k))HR(k)
×(wq(k)−B(k)wa(k)). (8)
1361
where Q¯ is the Householder matrix that can make (QQ¯)H
zero the second to the N th elements in the first column of
H(k + 1). Note that in (19) we ignore the normalizing factor
h˜11(k) for notation simplicity. Thus, we can write
w¯(k + 1)  Q¯−1w¯(k) = Q¯w¯(k). (20)
Therefore, at the (k+1)th time instant, if w¯(k+1) is calculated
according to (20), the abrupt changes due to the update of the
signal matching filter and blocking matrix can be avoided.
In summary, for continuously tracking the MIMO channel
environment, wq(k) and B(k) are updated periodically by
applying the Householder transformation, in which the update
frequency is determined by how fast the channel environment
varies. The faster the MIMO channel changes, the more
frequent wq(k) and B(k) are required to be updated. After
each update of wq(k) and B(k), wa(k) is revised according
to (20) to guarantee a smooth transition in the filtering process.
V. SIMULATIONS
Computer simulations are conducted to demonstrate the
effectiveness of the proposed adaptive MV detection scheme
over time-varying MIMO channels. Transmission is over inde-
pendent time-varying flat Rayleigh fading channels. For easy
presentation, we assume that perfect CSI is available at the
receiver.1 All transmitted symbols are randomly drawn and
then modulated by quadrature phase-shift keying (QPSK).
For comparison, we also consider the conventional adaptive
MMSE detection, as well as the optimum MV and MMSE
detection. In the following experiments, the update period for
the proposed adaptive MV detector and the step sizes in the
LMS adaptation for both adaptive MV and MMSE detectors
are chosen to optimize the performance. The transmitted data
symbols are grouped into frames and the frame size is 1000.
First, we consider the MIMO system with M = 2 and
N = 4. Fig. 2 demonstrates the learning curves of the output
signal-to-interference plus noise ratio (SINR) for the proposed
adaptive MV detector and the conventional adaptive MMSE
detector under different normalized Doppler frequencies fdTs.
The input SNR is fixed at 20 dB. From the figure, it is
clear that the update of wq(k) and B(k) does not affect
the learning behavior. No sudden change exists in the output
SINR for the adaptive MV detection. We also see that when
fdTs = 1× 10−4, both adaptive detectors can keep the output
SINR at a very high level throughout the frame. However, as
fdTs increases to 4×10−4, the adaptive MMSE detector begins
to lose track of the changing environment and the output SINR
values reduce continuously. Although the performance of the
adaptive MV detector is degraded too, the influence is less
severe. This shows that the proposed adaptive MV detector
is fairly robust over time-varying MIMO channels. We then
1In practice, CSI is estimated at the receiver. Likewise, the LMS algorithm
along with feedback decision can be used to track the time-varying channel.
Note that CSI must be outdated in the construction of wq(k) and B(k).
From extensive simulations, we find that in the scenario we consider, there is
no big difference in the performance of the proposed adaptive MV detection
with estimated CSI and perfect CSI.
show the error-probability performance for the environments
described previously. The symbol-error-rate (SER) versus dif-
ferent input SNR is presented in Fig. 3. Again, we see that
our adaptive MV detection can provide lower SER than the
conventional adaptive MMSE detection all the way, especially
over rapid changing MIMO channels.
Afterwards, we examine the performance of the MIMO
system with M = 4 and N = 6. Fig. 4 and Fig. 5
show the output SINR learning curves and SER performance,
respectively. We observe the same trends in these figures.
As fdTs increases, the performance difference between the
adaptive MV detection and the adaptive MMSE detection
becomes notable. We then conclude that our proposed adaptive
MV detector can outperform the conventional adaptive MMSE
detector over time-varying MIMO channels.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
In this paper, a new adaptive MV detection scheme has been
developed for time-varying MIMO channel environments. It
utilizes the MV criterion for optimization. With a specially
designed signal matching and blocking configuration, we are
able to realize the adaptive MV detector over the continuously
changing MIMO channel. Simulations show that the proposed
adaptive MV detection has better tracking capability than
the conventional adaptive MMSE detection, especially in fast
changing channel environments.
REFERENCES
[1] G. J. Foschini and M. J. Gans, “On the limits of wireless communica-
tions in a fading environment when using multiple antennas,” Wireless
Personal Commun., vol. 6, pp. 315–335, Mar. 1998.
[2] G. D. Golden, G. J. Foschini, R. A. Valenzuela, and P. W. Woniansky,
“Detection algorithm and initial laboratory results using V-BLAST
space-time communication architecture,” Electron. Lett., vol. 35, no. 1,
pp. 14–16, Jan. 1999.
[3] W. H. Chin, A. G. Constantinides, and D. B. Ward, “Parallel multistage
detection for multiple antenna wireless systems,” Electron. Lett., vol. 38,
no. 12, pp. 597–599, Jun. 2002.
[4] D. Tse and P. Viswanath, Fundamentals of Wireless Communication.
Cambridge Univ. Press, 2005.
[5] E. Biglieri, R. Calderbank, A. Constantinides, A. Goldsmith, A. Paulraj,
and H. V. Poor, MIMO Wireless Communications. Cambridge Univ.
Press, 2007.
[6] S. Shahbazpanahi, M. Beheshti, A. B. Gershman, M. Gharavi-
Alkhansari, and K. M. Wong, “Minimum variance linear receivers for
multiaccess MIMO wireless systems with space-time block coding,”
IEEE Trans. Signal Process., vol. 52, no. 12, pp. 3306–3312, Dec. 2004.
[7] L. J. Griffiths and C. W. Jim, “Alternative approach to linear constrained
adaptive beamforming,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. AP-30,
pp. 27–34, Jan. 1982.
[8] Y. Lee and W. R. Wu, “A robust adaptive generalized sidelobe canceller
with decision feedback,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. 53,
no. 11, pp. 3822–3832, Nov. 2005.
[9] J. G. Proakis, Digital Communications, 3-rd Ed. New York: McGraw-
Hill, 1995.
[10] S. Haykin, Adaptive Filter Theory, 3-rd Ed. Englewood Cliffs, NJ:
Prentice-Hall, 1996.
[11] H. L. Van Trees, Detection, Estimation, and Modulation Theory: Opti-
mum Array Processing, Pt. 4. John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2002.
[12] H. Cox, “Resolving power and sensitivity to mismatch of optimum array
processors,” J. Acoust. Soc. Am., vol. ASSP–54, pp. 771–785, Sept.
1973.
1363
