     Notably, a representative structured grid approach is the adaptive Cartesian mesh refinement of Berger 
and Oliger [6]. Their formulation is established on regular Cartesian meshes and arranged hierarchically with 
different resolutions. In regard to the unstructured approach, Zhu and Zienkiewicz [8] reviewed 
state-of-the-art automatic mesh refinement strategies, and discuss its important role in the error estimation and 
automatic adaptation in finite element analysis. Again, in the context of block-structured local refinement, 
important it may be to mention here the work of Minion [16] in which the author introduced a second order 
accurate cell-centered Godunov type projection method to solve incompressible Euler equations. On the other 
hand, Martin and Colella [17] present a solution algorithm for Euler equations that uses block-structured local 
refinements both in space and time. The method has subsequently been extended by Martin, Colella and 
Graves [18] to compute three-dimensional incompressible viscous flows in which a second-order 
semi-implicit Runge-Kutta scheme is used to compute the viscous terms.  Notably, while solving flow 
interaction with visco-elastic structures, Griffith et al. [19] efficiently combined the Godunov type projection 
method (to solve the non-linear advection terms) of Minion [16] together with  the semi-implicit 
second-order Runge-Kutta scheme (to calculate diffusion), as introduced in McCorquodale, Colella and 
Johansen [20].  Worth mentioning it may be here that, the projection methods are a class of fractional step 
algorithm that first compute the velocity field (which is generally not divergence free) from the momentum 
equations without imposing the incompressibility constraint. The updated velocity is subsequently obtained by 
solving the Poisson equation. 
In the present paper, we focus on developing a structured multi-block Cartesian grid method for 
effectively simulating unsteady viscous incompressible flows with complex immersed boundaries. The 
strongest point for the proposed structured nested grid refinement approach is that the solution process of the 
resulting `uniform’ grid evolution equation is very efficient in conjunction with the line-SOR. Notably, the 
presently implemented alternating direction line-SOR method is one of the widely used iterative methods for 
solving equations resulting from discretization on structured grids. The advantage of using the line-SOR, as a 
pre-conditioner, is that the converge rate is significantly faster than what is obtained with a simple point 
Jacobi method [26]. A further advantage of using line-SOR as a preconditioner is the procedure only requires 
the solution of tri-diagonal systems, and this can be accomplished with ease using the Thomas algorithm. 
The idea of Immersed Boundary (IB) method was first introduced by Peskin [21], in which the solid 
object is represented by a distributed body force in the Navier–Stokes equations. Since Peskin [21] introduced 
the method, the numerous modifications and refinements have been proposed and a number of variants of this 
approach now exist [22, 23]. In addition, there appear another class of method, usually referred to as 
“Cartesian grid method,” which were originally developed for simulating inviscid flows with complex 
embedded solid boundaries on Cartesian grids (Clarke et al.[24]). These methods have subsequently been 
extended to simulate the unsteady viscous flows (Udaykumar et al. [25], Ye et al. [26]) and have capabilities 
similar to those of IB methods. Notably, the original IB method by Peskin [21] was developed for the coupled 
simulation of blood flow and the muscle contraction in a beating heart and is generally suitable for flows with 
immersed elastic boundaries. But its application to flows with rigid bodies poses problems, because the 
constitutive laws used for elastic boundaries are not generally well posed in the rigid limit. Subsequently, 
another method for the rigid body class is developed by Angot et al. [27] and Khadra et al. [28]. In this 
    the mass conservation equation 
0=⋅∫ dSnuCS ,                                                                  (1) 
and the momentum conservation equation 
   dSnuudVu
t CSCV
)( vvvv ⋅+∂
∂ ∫∫ dSnuRedSnp CSCS vvv ⋅∇+−= ∫∫ 1                              (2) 
These equations are used as the starting point for deriving a second-order accurate finite-volume method. In 
the equations above CV and CS denote the control-volume and the control-surface, respectively, and n  is a 
unit vector normal to the control-surface. A second-order accurate two-step fractional step method is used for 
advancing the solutions in time. In this time-stepping scheme, the solutions are advanced from time level “n” 
to “n+1” through an intermediate advection-diffusion step, where momentum equations without the pressure 
gradient terms are first advanced in time. A second-order Adams–Bashforth scheme is employed for the 
convective terms, and the diffusion terms are discretized using an implicit Crank–Nicolson scheme. This 
eliminates the viscous stability constraint which can be quite severe in simulation of such flows. At this stage, 
in addition to the cell-center velocities, which are denoted by u , we also introduce face-center velocities U . 
However, in a manner similar to a fully staggered arrangement, only the component normal to the cell-face is 
computed and stored (see Fig.1). In our finite-volume discretization, the face-center velocity is used for 
computing the volume flux from each cell. The semi-discrete form of the advection-diffusion equation for 
each cell may, therefore, be written as: 
=Δ
−∫ dVtuu
n
CV
vv*
dSnuu
Re
dSnUunUu n
CS
nnnn
CS
vvvvvvvvv ⋅∇+∇+⋅−⋅− ∫∫ −− )(21)]()(3[21 *11    (3)                
where u  is the intermediate cell-center velocity; CV and CS denote volume and surface of a cell, 
respectively. Following the advection-diffusion step, the intermediate face-center velocity U  is computed by 
interpolating the intermediate cell-center velocity. 
The advection-diffusion step is followed by the pressure-correction step  
 ,1
*1 ∫∫ ++ ∇−=Δ− CV nCV
n
dVpdV
t
uu vv
                                                        (4) 
where we require that the final velocity field satisfy the integral mass conservation equation, 
 01 =⋅∫ + dSnUCS n vv .                                                                   (5) 
This results to the following pressure equation 
 ,)(1)( *1∫ ∫ ⋅Δ=⋅∇ +CS CSn dSnUtdSnp v
vv                                                      (6) 
which is the integral form of the Poisson equation. Note that the pressure correction step is represented by the 
inviscid equation (4) and is well posed only if the velocity component normal to the boundary is specified. 
The velocity boundary condition consistent with Eq. (4) is NvNu nn
vvvv ⋅=⋅ ++ 11 , where vv  is the prescribed 
boundary velocity, and N  is the unit normal to the boundary of the flow domain. It can easily be shown that 
             +Δ∂
∂−∂
∂+Δ∂
∂−∂
∂+ x
y
v
y
vy
x
v
x
v
Re snwe
])()[(])(){[(
2
1 ****    
             }])()[(])()[( x
y
v
y
vy
x
v
x
v
s
n
n
n
w
n
e
n
Δ∂
∂−∂
∂+Δ∂
∂−∂
∂                         (10)          
Where u  and v  represent the x- and y-direction velocities, respectively, at the cell-center. eU , wU , nV , 
and sV  are the introduced face center velocities. 
    Notably, Eq. (10) is the discretized form of advection-diffusion equation for a general cell. We now 
describe how these equations are implemented for cells without domain interface, cells (D1) with domain 
interface, and cells (D2) with domain interfaces in sequence. 
(i) Cells without domain interface 
   For the control volumes without domain interface, the Eq. (10) is exactly the same as Eq. (3) of a single 
block domain, which has been outlined in the previous section. In such a situation, by using the second order 
accurate central difference method for spatial terms, the cell-center velocities and their gradients at the cell 
faces are computed from the adjacent velocities, i.e.,  
   ,2/)( CEe uuu +=  ,2/)( CWw uuu +=  ,2/)( CNn uuu +=  ,2/)( CSs uuu +=                (11) 
,2/)( CEe vvv +=  ,2/)( CWw vvv +=  ,2/)( CNn vvv +=  ,2/)( CSs vvv +=                  (12) 
and 
x
uuu
x
u
x
u WCE
we Δ
+−=∂
∂−∂
∂ )2()()( , 
x
vvv
x
v
x
v WCE
we Δ
+−=∂
∂−∂
∂ )2()()( , 
    
y
uuu
y
u
y
u SCN
sn Δ
+−=∂
∂−∂
∂ )2()()( , 
y
vvv
y
v
y
v SCN
sn Δ
+−=∂
∂−∂
∂ )2()()( .                  (13) 
(ii) D1 cells with domain interface 
For those D1 cells with domain interface, as shown in Fig.2 (a), since Eu  and Ev  are not defined in the 
computational domain, the cell-center velocities at the east surface can not be computed by using Eqs. 
(11)-(12) directly. Here we need to compute the velocities at the ghost cell by introducing appropriate 
interpolations. In our study a simple way, devoted to calculate these interfacial ghost velocities, is obtained by 
using average velocity of the occupied D2 cells instead, i.e.,  
,4/)( 4321 uuuuuE +++=  and .4/)( 4321 vvvvvE +++=                              (14) 
where subscript E denotes the ghost cell with respect to D1 (E being the eastern cell), as shown in Fig.2 (a), in 
which control volume E is occupied by four (1, 2, 3, and 4) D2 cells. Notably, in view of Eq. (14), the general 
form of the cell-surface velocities [Eqs. (11-12)] and their second-order accuracy could be preserved. 
Note that, it is the block-interface processing which plays the essential part of the present nested-block 
formulation. In the general advection-diffusion equation (Eq. 10), except eu  and ev , which have been 
described in the previous paragraph, there are some other terms such as eU , exu )/( ∂∂  and exv )/( ∂∂  
located at the block interface. Here eU , exu )/( ∂∂  and exv )/( ∂∂  are used for computing the volume flux 
and the momentum flux, respectively, from D1 to D2 cells. Although there are varied interpolations available, 
 ])()[(1])()[(])()[( ****
1111
xVVyUU
t
x
y
p
y
py
x
p
x
p
snwes
n
n
n
w
n
e
n
Δ−+Δ−Δ=Δ∂
∂−∂
∂+Δ∂
∂−∂
∂ ++++
   (20) 
Notably, for cells without domain interface, using the second order accurate central difference method, 
pressure gradients at cell surfaces are computed from 
xppxp CEe Δ−=∂∂ /)()/( ,   xppxp WCw Δ−=∂∂ /)()/(  , 
,/)()/( yppyp CNn Δ−=∂∂    yppyp SCs Δ−=∂∂ /)()/(  .                             (21)  
For D1 cells with domain interface, as shown in Fig.2(a), the pressure gradient term at the interface, 
exp )/( ∂∂ , need to be processed rather than computed by using Eq.(21) directly. In a manner similar to the 
momentum diffusions processing, the pressure gradient is thereby obtained from the diffusion consistency 
equation, 
=Δ×∂
∂+Δ×∂
∂=Δ×∂
∂
22211 )()()( yx
py
x
py
x
p
wwe 2
2
22
2
2
11 y
x
pp
y
x
pp WW Δ×Δ
−+Δ×Δ
−
.       (22)  
For those D2 cells with domain interface [Fig.2 (b)], since the ghost cell pressure Wp  is not defined in 
the computational domain, the pressure gradient at the west surface can not be computed by using Eq. (21) 
directly. Therefore, we needed to compute the ghost pressure Wp . In such a situation, similar to the 
advection-diffusion processing, the implemented interpolations are listed below:  
    4/)( 4321 pppppW +++= ,                                                       (23) 
where Cpp 11 = , 2/)( 112 EC ppp += , 4/)( 11113 NNEEC ppppp +++= , and 2/)( 114 NC ppp += . 
Note that, NEE pp 11 and,  are not defined in our computational domains, and these pressures once again 
are obtained from the ghost sell equation 
    ,4/)(1 SESECE ppppp +++=                                                      (24) 
The subscript 1E here refers to the ghost cell with respect to the D1 cells (1E being the eastern cell), as shown 
in Fig.2 (b), for which the control volume is occupied by the four D2 cells (herein denoted by the subscripts C, 
E, S, and SE). 
2.2.4. Velocity correction 
Once the pressure is obtained by solving pressure equation, both the cell-center and face-center velocities 
are updated separately as: 
cc
nn xptuu )/( 1*1 ∂∂Δ−= ++ , and ccnn yptvv )/( 1*1 ∂∂Δ−= ++  
fc
nn xptUU )/( 1*1 ∂∂Δ−= ++ , and fcnn yptVV )/( 1*1 ∂∂Δ−= ++ . 
At this point it may be appropriate to describe how exactly the cell-center velocities be corrected for the 
various cases, such as, for cells without domain interface, in D1 cells with domain interface, in D2 cells with 
domain interface; and how face-center velocities be corrected at the non-domain interface and for the domain 
interfaces in sequence. 
(i) Cell-center velocity correction for cells without domain interface 
For instance, with reference to Fig. 1, the velocity correction at the cell center is now conducted as  
 In the present study, the presence of a solid object within the flow domain is represented by a locally 
active distributed body force in the Navier–Stokes equations, i.e.,  
fu
Re
pu)u(
t
u +Δ+∇−∇⋅−= 1∂
∂
, 
Here, the distributed force is defined as φ×Δ−∇+∇⋅≡ )u
Re
pu)u((f 1 , in which φ  represents the 
volume-fraction of the solid body [30] within a cell. Note that, 1=φ  for a structure cell (cell occupied 
entirely by the solid body), 0=φ  for a fluid cell (cell occupied entirely by fluid), and 10 << φ  for an 
interface cell (cell partially occupied by solid body and partially by fluid), respectively. As a consequence, the 
body force which acts on the fluid satisfy the condition that the velocity in cells occupied by the solid body 
should match the prescribed velocity of the solid body.  
    The IB method is subsequently implemented to the solver together with the fractional step procedure. 
Although there are other IB methods available, such as those of Lai and Peskin [23] and Ye et al. [26], the 
present method is not only easy to use, but also found to be quite suitable for our nested grid formulation. 
3. Numerical Experiments 
In order to demonstrate the performance of the proposed nested-block formulation, herewith we 
extensively examine several of our computed complex flow phenomena of recent interest, and validate them 
with the well known results available in the literature. 
3.1. Lid-Driven Cavity Flow 
The test case we first consider is the lid-driven cavity flow problem. In this case steady incompressible 
lid-driven flow in a square cavity is computed both by using the ordinary single-block method and the 
presently derived nested-block formulation. The two-dimensional lid-driven cavity flow at a Reynolds number 
Re = 1000 is considered here. Extensive simulations of the flow on various uniform meshes (the uniform grid 
system is referred to as the one block grid, and denoted by B1 hereafter) of grid sizes 40×40 (this coarse grid 
G1 with 025.0=Δ=Δ yx  is referred as grid1), 80×80 (the finer grid G2 with 0125.0=Δ=Δ yx  is 
referred as grid2), and 160×160 (the finest grid G3 with 00625.0=Δ=Δ yx  is referred as grid3) are 
specially conducted for the relative comparison of the present nested two-block results. For convenience, the 
uniform mesh systems of grid sizes 40×40, 80×80, and 160×160 are named as B1G1, B1G2, and B1G3, 
respectively, while the related two-block grid systems are denoted by B2G2, B2G3 etc. The block numbers, 
grid sizes, and the refined grid region of the B2G3 grid system are shown in Fig.3. Notably, the B2G3 grid 
system (Fig.3) consists of two blocks. In the central area of ( 95.005.0 ≤≤ x )× ( 95.005.0 ≤≤ y ) the grid 
length scale is the same as those of the G2 grids, while in the outlying area of 05.0≤x  or 95.0≥x  and 
05.0≤y  or 95.0≥y , the grid length scale is the same as those of the G3 grids. For clarity, in Fig.3 the 
simulated vorticity contours for the cavity flow problem (for Re=1000) with two single block grids, G2, G3, 
and two nested blocks grids, B2G2, B3G3, are plotted and superimposed, and notably, the depicted vorticity 
contour plots are seen to coincide exactly, and they remained quite smoothly distributed across the 
block-interfaces. This (Fig.3), firstly, clearly shows the present nested-block formulation works very well for 
 These plots clearly show that the global error in our computed solution decreases in a manner consistent with a 
second-order accurate scheme. Furthermore, our computed error norm of pressure for the uniform grid case, as 
depicted in Fig.5(e), reveals its second order nature of convergence. We would, however, like to add here that 
for the nested grid case the global pressure convergence appeared to be of first order accurate. Notably, a similar 
test procedure has been adopted in Refs. [33] and [34]. The above test therefore proves that the current solution 
methodology together with the fractional step method is of generally globally second-order accurate. 
3.2. Flow past a Circular Cylinder  
While the benchmark solution of the lid-driven cavity problem allows us to confirm the accuracy of the 
present nested-block method, here we validate it further by simulating different unsteady viscous flows past a 
circular cylinder (of diameter d) placed symmetrically in a planar channel of height h. Figure 6 shows a 
schematic of the flow configuration that has been used for simulations with implemented parabolic inlet 
profile and the immersed boundary method. Notably, the two main parameters in this flow are the blockage 
ratio hd /=β , and the Reynolds number ν/QRe = , where Q is the inlet volume flux. A systematic 
numerical investigation of the flow over a parameter range has been presented by Chen et al. [34], and their 
results (and the definition of Re) have been used to validate our simulations. Importantly, the presently 
investigated flow shares some common feature with the case of a cylinder immersed in a free stream; in 
particular, the vortex shedding behaviour observed beyond a critical Reynolds number. The value of the 
critical Reynolds number, however, remains strongly dependent on the blockage ratio. Furthermore, the 
development of vortices is also significantly affected by the boundary layers that form on the channel walls. 
Thus, overall, this is a more complicated flow and a good test case for our nested grid simulation 
methodology.  
We now first conduct a resolution study by solving the vortex shedding flow at Re=500 with blockage 
ratio 0.2. A series of grid systems including one-block, two-block, and three-block grids are used for 
simulation of this flow. The resolution study included two parts, namely, the locally-refined-domain inference 
study and the grid independence study, which are separately conducted and results are collected/listed 
systematically in Tables 2 and 3. Computed results concerning the dimensionless dynamic forces acting on the 
cylinder  (e.g., the mean drag force coefficient dC , the lift force amplitude lC , and the vortex shedding 
frequency, the Strouhal number St), for different uniform/non-uniform (single/nested) grid systems are listed 
in Table 2; where B1G1 denotes a one block coarse uniform grid system with hyx 02.0=Δ=Δ , and B1G2 
denotes a one block finer uniform grid system with hyx 01.0=Δ=Δ . Notably, the simulated data (Table-2) 
clearly suggest, for the case of single block uniform grids, the use of higher grid resolution is very much 
essential for an effective simulation of this class of flows, as solutions appear to depend strongly on the grid 
size (e.g. the difference of lC , as obtained with the coarse B1G1 grid and the fine B1G2 grid (Table-2) is 
about 34.4%). However, in order to make sure that the presented results remain quite close to the grid 
independent solution, another single block simulation with 151,200 uniform grids (B1G2') was subsequently 
conducted, and notably, now the difference of lC  with respect to B1G2 grid became 3.2%. On the other 
 quite expectedly suggest the need for higher grid resolution in correctly simulating such a complex flow. 
Interestingly, the two (B2D5, which is same as B2G2) and the three (B3G3) block results, as presented in the 
last two rows of Table-3, clearly reveal the effectiveness of the nested blocks, particularly with respect to 
B1G2 (both in terms of total grid numbers and the CPU time used). Notably, while the present nested-block 
method undeniably improves the coarse single-block results greatly (as evident from the values of lC and St 
in Table-3), the grid size and the CPU time in the nested-block method are still preserved at the coarse-grid 
(B1G1) level (see columns five and seven in Table-3). Thus, so far it has clearly been observed from the 
above mentioned numerical experiments that our nested-block method can indeed achieve an equivalent 
accuracy as obtainable on the finest uniform mesh (e.g. B1G2), and at the same time it greatly saves the CPU 
time. Furthermore, our simulated vortex shedding behavior (Fig.10) and the corresponding velocity and 
pressure contours [Figs.11(a)-(c)] at a further higher Reynolds number (Re=750), as obtained by using the 
nested three-block (B3G3) grid system, seem to appear very much encouraging in this context. 
 At this point, in Figs. 11(d)-(e) we extract the time averaged normalized pressure distribution around the 
cylinder at Re= 40 and 750, respectively. Simulation at Re=40 [Fig.11(d)] is particularly conducted to 
compare our simulated results with the existing data. Important it may be to note that, Fig.11(d) clearly 
demonstrates our simulated pC   matches quite encouragingly with those of  Berthelsen and Faltinsen [33], 
Tseng and Ferziger [35], Dennis and Chang [36], and Grove et al.[37]. Moreover, values of pC  obtained 
with different refined grid sizes appear very much consistent (in fact they coincide exactly), which seem to 
further enhance the reliability of the present numerical model. 
    We now focus on numerically predicting the critical Reynolds number of the flow for a blockage ratio of 
0.2. Notably, the bifurcation analysis of Chen et al. [38] indicates that the value of the critical Reynolds 
number associated with the particular blockage ratio is 231. This has also been confirmed by Ye et al. [26]. 
Herein, we focus on computing the critical value with each of B1G1, B1G2, and B3G3 grids. For this, with 
each of B1G1, B1G2 and B3G3 grid system, we performed a series of numerical simulations within the range 
225≤Re≤270 in order to pinpoint the corresponding critical Reynolds numbers. From the flow stability 
analysis, it is expected that the first bifurcation of the steady flow should occur for a Re lying between 225 and 
270. Note that, the transitional bifurcation processes of steady flows past circular as well as square cylinders 
have been clarified as supercritical Hopf bifurcations [39]. In an effort to extract an identifiable characteristic 
signifying the occurrence of such a Hopf bifurcation, variation of 2lC  as a function of Re is now plotted in 
Fig. 12. Notably, since a linear relation, ReCl ∝2 , holds here, the occurrence of the supercritical Hopf 
bifurcation during transition from the steady flow to the oscillatory vortex shedding flow is clearly confirmed 
[4, 39]. Herein we now concentrate on more accurate exploration of the bifurcation physics (in terms of 
Reynolds number) for the presently investigated vortex shedding flow by further examining the natures of 
variations of 2lC  with respect to Re for all the three, B1G1, B1G2, B3G3, grid systems. Such variations of 
2
lC  as functions of Re are also plotted in Fig. 12. Interestingly, the values of Recr for B3G3, B1G2, and B1G1, 
as evaluated, became 230.7, 234.2, and 262.6, respectively. Notably, when compared with the numerical result 
 series of numerical simulations for Re=163 and 525 using four different grid systems (B1G1, B1G2, B2G2, 
B3G2) have been performed, and the corresponding results are presented in Table 4 and Table 5. For all these 
simulations, a time increment tΔ  equals to 0.001 had been used and a dimensionless time t=300 was chosen 
as the end of iterations. Notably, in Tables 4 and 5, the numerical results concerning, the mean drag 
coefficient dC ,  mean lift coefficient lC , lift force amplitude Cl,Amp , and the dimensionless vortex 
shedding frequency (Strouhal number St*) are presented. Findings of Mittal and Balachandar [40], whenever 
appropriate, are also listed there for comparison. We may mention here that, the results of Mittal and 
Balchandar [40] were obtained with a body-fitted grid system with merely 8100 cells. Moreover, we would 
like to state that, the observed difference between the two sets of single block data (with B1G1 and B1G2), as 
presented in the first two rows of Tables 4–5, only reveal the (expected) important role of finer grid resolution 
(even when they are uniform) in such a flow complex simulation, and they seem to no way disregard the 
usefulness of the nested blocks. On the other hand, the results (Tables 4-5) presented in the second, third, and 
fourth rows (with B1G2, B2G2 and B3G2) clearly reveal the efficiency of the nested block method (both in 
terms of grid number and the CPU time used). To be explicit, the differences of 8.7% and 20.8%, between the 
computed two single block values (with coarse B1G1 and the fine B1G2 grid) of Cl,Amp   (Table-4) and lC   
(Table 5), respectively, suggest the need for higher grid resolution in the effective simulation of the flow. On 
the other hand, as evident from Table-4, at Re*=163 the observed differences of dC  and St* between the 
coarse (B1G1) and the finer (B1G2) grids stood about 6.7% and 3.2%, respectively; and such differences of 
dC  and St* (Table-5) at Re*=525 between B1G1 and B1G2 became about 7.2%, and 4.4%. Note that, 
although the improvement of (single block) numerical results from B1G1 to B1G2 is significant, the B1G2 
grid number is four times the B1G1 grid number, and the corresponding CPU time is about 6 times that of 
B1G1. Moreover, from the numerical results listed in Tables 4 and 5, it may be observed that the refinement 
of grids around the ellipse improves the numerical results significantly. On the other hand, it is very 
interesting to note that, with just extra 3,321 (and 3,888) refined grids in B2G2 (and B3G2), consisting of 
about 13% (and 16%) of the B1G1 grid number, the present two block (three block) method can produce a 
closely resembled results to that of B1G2 (which consists of 100,000 grids !). Note also that, the differences of 
computed dC , Cl, and St* values between B1G2 and B2G2 (or B3G2) are, remarkably, all now within 1.0%. 
Therefore, this local-refined-domain inference study not only demonstrates the efficiency of the present nested 
block method, but also clearly justifies the validity/usefulness of the presence of local-refinement overlap 
blocks in the flow simulation. In order to further establish the efficiency of such a nested block grid system, in 
Figs.15 and 16 we present the simulated vortex shedding behaviour and the corresponding variations of the 
drag and the lift forces, respectively, for a higher aspect-ratio (thickness-ratio) cylinder with Γ =0.5, 
o45=α , Re*=525, obtained by using the same grid distribution as in Fig.13. Interestingly, the vortex 
shedding pattern at Re*=525, as presented in Fig.15, clearly reveals encouragingly smooth variations of local 
flows across different block interfaces.   
3.4. Flow past two circular cylinders with different diameters 
 used to compute the outer flow. In the inner block of DD 46 ×  [see Fig. 20(a)], G2 grids with 
Dyx 05.0=Δ=Δ  were used to compute the flow around the cylinder. In Fig. 18 our computed time 
averaged drag coefficients for Reynolds number varying from 10 to 100 are compared with the finite 
difference results of Lei et al. [48] and the finite element solutions of Zhao et al. [44]. Notably, an excellent 
agreement between the existing results [45, 48] and the present solutions has been achieved. Figure 19 
provides a comparison of the simulated Strhoual number variations for Re ≤ 200. Again, the present 
computational results agree very well with the previous studies. The conducted numerical tests therefore 
clearly show that the present nested grid method can in fact predict the flow over a single circular cylinder 
quite reliably. 
The numerical model is now applied to study the flow past two circular cylinders, as depicted in Fig. 
20(b). Before we discuss our detailed simulated results concerning the suppression of vortex shedding, here 
we briefly describe the implemented three-block domain decomposition method. A typical computational 
mesh together with the associated vortex shedding behaviour for the flow at Re=100 may be noted from Fig. 
20(b). Herein the computational domain of 25D×14D is divided into three blocks. In the outer block G1 grids 
with Dyx 1.0=Δ=Δ  were used. In the middle block of DD 46 × , G2 grids with Dyx 05.0=Δ=Δ  
were used to compute the flow around the main cylinder. Whereas, in the inner block of DD. 152 × , G3 
grids with Dyx 025.0=Δ=Δ  were used to compute the depicted flow [Fig.20(b)] around the control 
cylinder. In all, the total number of cells employed in the computation was 45200.  
Figure 21 shows the computed time history of lift coefficient of the main cylinder at Re=100. For the 
sake of comparison, the lift coefficient with an isolated single cylinder is also plotted here. It may be noted 
from Fig. 21 that the effect of the small cylinder on the lift coefficients is quite significant. Specifically, the 
suppression of the mean lift on the large cylinder is very much noteworthy for all the computed cases (Fig.21) 
with oo 4020 ≤≤ θ . The maximum suppression of the lift on the main cylinder is however found (Fig.21) to 
occur at o25=θ . For further clarity, the variations of mean lift and drag coefficients, amplitudes of the lift 
coefficients, and the Strouhal number St for the main cylinder as functions of the position angle of the small 
cylinder were collected from our simulated data and listed in Table 6. It is noted that (Table 6) the maximum 
suppression ratio of  lC  on the main cylinder is about 3.7%, and it occurs at 
o25=θ . For the sake of  
enhanced clarity, corresponding simulated results for the two-cylinder system with Re = 80 are 
plotted/presented in Fig.22 and Table 7. Notably, from Tables 6 and 7, it becomes absolutely clear that the 
suppression of the vortex shedding is most dominant at Re=80 and o25=θ , where the suppression ratio of  
lC on the main cylinder is equal to 0.0%. Which means a total suppression can indeed be established in the 
coupled system. For completeness, the computed  lC  history at Re=80 and 
o25=θ  is extracted in Fig. 23. 
It clearly shows, for 80≥t , the value of  lC  has almost vanished (Fig.23). 
    In order to demonstrate the effectiveness of the control cylinder on the suppression of vortex shedding 
more convincingly, in Fig. 24 we depict the vorticity distributions at Re=80 and o25=θ . It now appears quite 
clear from Fig.24 that, in the presence of a control cylinder, the vortex shedding pattern/behaviour becomes 
 with the vortex shedding) with a high degree of precision. For the flow past an inclined elliptic cylinder, 
placed in a uniform stream, the validity/effectiveness of the present numerical method in a situation when 
more than two fine nested grid domains are present/overlap is confirmed.  
For the flow past two circular cylinders of different diameters (in tandem), the ability of the present 
numerical method in effectively predicting the suppression of the vortex shedding phenomenon, which has 
been reported to be difficult to obtain by a Cartesian grid method, is widely demonstrated. In addition, our 
numerical experiments clearly indicate that even with considerably reduced grid size the present nested-block 
method can achieve a solution of comparable accuracy to that obtained by the traditional finite difference 
methods on a finest uniform grid, and the present method also helps to  significantly lower the CPU time 
requirement. Clearly, in combination with the implemented immersed boundary method and the fractional 
step procedure the current nested-block solver is able to simulate the reported flows with ease, and thereby, 
demonstrate the efficiency of the present approach in solving various physically important complex problems. 
References 
1. L. Chacon, G. Lapenta, A fully implicit, nonlinear adaptive grid strategy, J. Comput. Phys. 212 (2006) 
703-717. 
2. H. Ding, C. Shu, A stencil adaptive algorithm for finite difference solution of incompressible viscous 
flows, J. Comput. Phys. 214 (2006) 397-420. 
3. Y.H. Shiau, Y.F. Peng, R. R. Hwang, C.K. Hu, Multistability and symmetry breaking in the 2-D flow 
around a square cylinder, Phys. Rev. E, 60 (1999) 6188-6191. 
4. Y.F. Peng, Y.H. Shiau, R. R. Hwang, Transition in a 2-D lid-driven cavity flow, Comp. Fluids 32 (2003) 
337-352. 
5. A. Sau, T.W. Sheu, S.T. Tsai, R. Hwang, T.P. Chiang, Structural development of vertical flows around a 
square jet in cross-flow, Proc. R. Soc. London, Ser. A, 460 (2004) 3339-3368.  
6. M.J. Berger, J. Oliger, Adaptive mesh refinement for hyperbolic partial differential equations, J. Comput. 
Phys. 53 (1984) 484-512. 
7. A.M. Khokhlov, Fully threaded tree algorithms for adaptive refinement fluid dynamics simulations, J. 
Comput. Phys. 143 (1998) 519-543. 
8. J.Z. Zhu, O.C. Zienkiewicz, Adaptive techniques in the finite element method, Comm. Appl. Numer. 
Meth. 4 (1988) 197-204. 
9. P.A. Durbin, G. Iaccarino, An approach to local refinement of structured grids, J. Comput. Phys. 181 
(2002) 639-653. 
10. R. B. Pember, J.B. Bell, P. Colella, W.Y. Curtchfield, M.L. Welcome, An adaptive Cartesian grid method 
for unsteady compressible flow in irregular regions, J. Comput. Phys. 120 (1995) 278-304. 
11. A.S. Almgren, J.B. Bell, P. Colella, L.H. Howell, M.L. Welcome, A conservative adaptive projection 
method for the variable density incompressible Navier–Stokes equations, J. Comput. Phys. 142 (1998) 
1-46. 
12. M. Gerritsen, P. Olsson, Design and efficient solution strategy for fluid flows II. Stable high-order central 
finite difference schemes on composite adaptive grids with sharp shock resolution, J. Comput. Phys. 147 
 two-level non-staggered grids for incompressible Navier-Stokes equations, J. Comput. Phys. 227 (2008) 
4018-4037. 
33. P. A. Berthelsen, O.M. Faltinsen, A local directional ghost cell approach for incompressible viscous 
problems with irregular boundaries, J. Comput. Phys. 227 (2008) 4354-4397.  
34. M. P. Kirkpatrick, S.W. Armfield, J.H. Kent, A representation of curved boundaries for the solution of the 
Navier-Stokes equations on a staggered three-dimensional Cartesian Grid, J. Comput. Phys. 184 (2003)      
1-36. 
35. Y.H. Tseng, J.H. Ferziger, A ghost cell immersed boundary method for flow in complex geometry, J.   
Comput. Phys. 192 (2003) 593-623. 
36. S.C.R. Dennis, G.Z. Chang, Numerical solutions for steady flow past a circular cylinder at Reynolds  
number up to 100, J. Fluid Mech. 42 (1970) 471-489. 
37. A.S. Grove, F.H. Shair, E.E. Petersen, A. Acrivos, An experimental investigation of the steady separated 
flow past a circular cylinder, J. Fluid Mech. 19 (1964) 60-80. 
38. J. H. Chen, W. G. Pritchard, S. J. Tavener, Bifurcation for flow past a cylinder between parallel planes, J. 
Fluid Mech. 284 (1995) 23-52. 
39. M. Provansal, C. Mathis, L. Boyer, Benard von Karman instability: transient and forced regimes, J. Fluid 
Mech. 182 (1987) 1-22. 
40. R. Mittal, S. Balachandar, Direct numerical simulation of flow past elliptic cylinders, J. Comput. Phys.124 
(1996) 351-367. 
41. B. J. Strykowski, K. R. Sreenivasan, On the formation and suppression of vortex ‘shedding’ at low 
Reynolds numbers, J. Fluid Mech. 218 (1990) 71-107. 
42. H. Sakamoto, K. Tan, H. Haniu, An optimum suppression of fluid forces by controlling a shear layer 
separated from a square prism, J. Fluid Eng. 113 (1991) 183-9. 
43. H. Sakamoto, H. Haniu, Optimum suppression of fluid forces acting on a circular cylinder,” J. Fluid Eng. 
116 (1994) 221-237. 
44. C. Dalton, Y. Xu, J. C. Owen, The Suppression of lift on a circular cylinder due to vortex shedding at 
moderate Reynolds numbers, J. Fluid Struct. 15 (2001) 61-28. 
45. M. Zhao, L. Cheng, B. Teng, D. Liang, Numerical simulation of viscous flow past two circular cylinders 
of different diameters, Appl. Ocean Research, 27 (2005) 39-55. 
46. Y. Delaunay, L. Kaiktsis, Control of circular cylinder wakes using base mass transpiration, Phys. Fluid. 13 
(2001) 3285-302. 
47. D. L. Young, J L. Huang, T. I. Eldho, Simulation of laminar vortex shedding flow past cylinders using a 
coupled BEM and FEM model, Comput. Method Appl. Mech. Eng. 190 (2001) 5975-98. 
48. C. Lei, L. Cheng, K. Kavanagh, A finite difference solution of the shear flow over a circular cylinder, 
Ocean Eng. 27 (2000) 271-90. 
49. A. Sau, Hopf bifurcations in the wake of a square cylinder, Phys. Fluids 21(2009) 034105, 1-19.  
50. A. Sau, T. W. Hsu, S. H. Ou, Three-dimensional evolution of vortical structures and associated flow 
bifurcations in the wake of two side-by-side square cylinders, Phys. Fluids 19 (2007) 084105, 1-17. 
51. A. Sau, Growth of unsteady Hopf bifurcation modes and their swapping in a transitional coupled wake, 
