1研究摘要
Abstract— A hybrid method which combines four different
algorithms for low-frequency oscillation parameter estimation is
presented in this project. The first algorithm is discrete Fourier
transform (DFT) which is used to detect low-frequency oscillation.
The second one is FIR window filter which is employed in filtering
unwanted components, and Window Correction Factor (WCF) is
provided to eliminate the side effect of using FIR window filter. The
third one is the prototype algorithm which is proposed to estimate
low-frequency oscillation parameters, and the last one is the least
square error (LSE) method which is utilized to enhance the
computational accuracy by changing the window size. This hybrid
method has been implemented by Java language and is under test in
Taiwan’s power system. To demonstrate the performance of this
hybrid method, Matlab/Simulink simulation and field test results are
provided in this project.
Index Terms - low-frequency oscillation, discrete Fourier
transform, FIR window filter, least square error method.
I. INTRODUCTION
ince low-frequency oscillation has been detected in
Taiwan’s power system (Taipower system) in 1984,
related researches have become important in Taiwan. This is
because low-frequency oscillation causes transmission
capacity reduction, equipment damage, and even system
instability.
To prevent the damage caused by low-frequency oscillation,
several generators in the Taipower system have been installed
with power system stabilizers (PSS). However, with the
increase of load and shortage of transmission capacity,
low-frequency oscillation may occur in the future. Therefore,
it is essential to monitor and estimate low-frequency
oscillation parameters.
In the last ten years, many algorithms have been proposed
for low-frequency oscillation parameter estimation, including
DFT [1]-[4], Kalman filter [5], Prony method [6]-[9], and
wavelet transform [7], each having its own features.
Easy implementation, efficient execution, and high
noise-resistance are the main advantages of DFT, but the
waveform of low-frequency oscillation is not a periodic
sinusoidal wave. DFT is not suitable for low-frequency
oscillation parameter estimation.
Kalman filter is a technique for estimating an unknown
state of a dynamic system which has additive noise, but model
analysis makes it inconvenient for low-frequency oscillation
parameter estimation.
Prony method is a very efficient tool and is able to estimate
damping, amplitude, frequency, and phase from sequential
data. However, it is very difficult to compute the parameters
through this method [7] and it is well known to perform poorly
when the signal is imbedded in noise [8], [10].
Wavelet transform is suitable in recognizing the features of
signal in both time and frequency domains, but wavelet
analysis also has its own limitations. A correct wavelet is the
key to correct analysis, unfortunately however, a damping
sinusoid is not a wavelet.
The hybrid method we presented in this project is
composed of four parts, and each part has its own function.
The first part is DFT which is used to detect low-frequency
oscillation. The second part is the FIR window filter which is
employed in filtering unwanted components while Window
Correction Factor is provided to eliminate the side effect of
FIR window filter. The third part is the prototype algorithm
which we proposed to estimate low-frequency oscillation
parameters, and the last part is the LSE method which is
utilized to enhance the computational accuracy by changing
the window size.
II. TEST RESULTS
In this section, we present some simulation and field test
results to demonstrate the performance of this hybrid method.
The simulation tests are performed by Matlab/Simulink, and
the field measurement data are provided by ADX Company.
A. Matlab/Simulink Simulation Tests
To demonstrate the online performance of this hybrid
method, we simulate a two-machine transmission system by
Matlab/Simulink, as shown in Fig. 1. Two simulated
ADX3000s, which are phasor measurement units (PMU)
produced by ADX Company are installed in Bus 1 (B1) and
Bus 2 (B2), respectively, and the length of the transmission
line is 700 km. The hybrid method is performed by Embedded
Matlab Function, and the input data are the phase difference
between B1 and B2. A single-phase ground fault occurs at 0.1
sec and is cleared at 0.2 sec, and the total simulation time is 10
sec. The parameters used in Fig. 2 are provided in Table 1.
Two different cases are provided in this paper. One is the
unstable case, and the other is the stable case.
Fig. 1. Simulation Structure for real time low-frequency oscillation estimation
S
3The main purpose of providing off-line version is for
convenient in report-writing. The off-line version provides
easy-reading information for the administrative department. It
gives data such as the time when oscillation actually started,
the principal frequency and damping ratio, and the duration of
the oscillation. Since the off-line version uses historical data
for estimation, it can estimate the parameters when oscillation
occurs.
Meanwhile, the on-line version is also provided to help
central operators of Taipower Company understand the real
situation of low-frequency oscillation. The on-line version
shows real-time estimation parameters of low-frequency
oscillation. Since the on-line version uses real-time data for
estimation, it is restricted by the data rate and estimates the
parameters in a fixed window.
Fig.4 contains the map of Taiwan. Taiwan is a long, narrow
and mountainous island. Since most of its mountains are in the
east, the major development area is in the west. Accordingly,
the major electric transmission lines are almost located in the
western Taiwan as shown in the bold solid lines on the map.
Since the major loads are located in northern Taiwan and most
generating plants are in the middle and southern Taiwan,
significant power had been transferred from south to north.
Therefore, inter-area mode oscillations are the major concerns
of Taipower system.
On January 24, 2004, some faults happened in Taipower
system, which caused a little swing in Taipower system. The
field data and computation results are shown in Fig. 5, 6 and 7.
We use dotted lines to show off-line computation results and
solid lines to represent on-line computation results.
Fig. 5(a) shows the phase difference between Lung Tan and
2nd Nuclear which are in the northern Taiwan and Fig. 6(a)
shows the phase difference between Lung Chi and 2nd
Nuclear which are in the southern Taiwan. It is clear that the
oscillation in northern and southern Taipower system is
smaller than the oscillation between 3rd Nuclear and 2nd
Nuclear as shown in Fig. 7(a). This means that Taipower
Company still has to keep an eye on inter-area mode
oscillations.
Figs. 5(b), 6(b), and 7(b) show the frequency of oscillation,
which is lower than 0.8 Hz. Figs. 5(c), 6(c), and 7(c) show the
damping ratio of oscillation, and Figs. 5(d), 6(d), and 7(d)
show the amplitude of oscillation.
III. CONCLUSIONS
In this project, we present a hybrid method which combines
four different algorithms including DFT, FIR window filter,
LSE, and a prototype algorithm for low-frequency oscillation
parameter estimation, each part having its own function. We
also use two different kinds of test to verify this hybrid
method, and the computational results prove to be encouraging.
Since this hybrid method is used in WAMS which is built by
ADX Company in Taiwan, it follows the specifications
provided by Taipower Company and ADX Company for both
on-line and off-line applications.
Fig. 5. Field data and computation results (Lung Tan–2nd Nuclear)
Fig. 6. Field data and computation results (Lung Chi–3rd Nuclear)
Fig. 7. Field data and computation results (3rd Nuclear–2nd Nuclear)
