I 
摘要 
模具是製造業重要的基礎，但模具與成型技術牽涉甚廣，一般而言，模具人才需要具
備相當豐富的模具與成型經驗，不但培養不易又流動快速，如何降低人才流動所造成的損
失，也是十分迫切的問題；且現今產業競爭國際化，將模具技術結合知識管理，提升模具
技術的成長是勢在必行的。 
本計畫目的在於建構一套以CAD/CAM為中心的模具協同估價/設計與製造之數位化整
合系統，以製造估價模組將模具價格透明化並且快速訂出合理的報價，協同設計模組將產
品開發週期大幅縮短，生產製造模組將加工規劃與排程最佳化以加速模具的後製加工。各
模組皆可獨立運行或整合運用，並將知識管理應用在模具知識經驗上，輔助人才快速的培
養；經由此系統的開發與典範模具廠實務的結合，能夠大幅降低模具生產週期與加強模具
廠管理的便利性，以提升國內模具產業在全球的競爭力。 
關鍵詞：模具設計/製造、知識管理、系統整合、協同平台、生產週期 
Abstract 
Mold technologies are the foundation of manufacturing industries. However, the 
technologies and knowledge must be accumulated through years of training and experience. Due 
to the fact that the asset of good engineers is very difficult to keep, an e-platform with knowledge 
management to keep related technologies is absolutely needed. 
This project builds a collaborative mold quoting, design and manufacturing e-platform by 
integration with the CAD/CAM software. The quoting module should provide transparent price 
for the mold design and the information should be reasonable, and profitable. The design module 
should shorten the design process by providing standard components, procedures, and knowledge 
management. The manufacturing module will optimize the planning and scheduling processes of 
mold components. Three modules will be seamlessly integrated together; however, each one 
could work independently. In addition, the knowledge management module will digitize and 
accumulate the experiences and technologies to support the platform. The successful of this 
customizable system should promote the competition edge of mold and molding industry. 
Keywords: Mold Design/Manufacturing, Knowledge Management, System Integration, 
Collaborative Platform, Production Cycle 
2 
B. 協同設計 
將模具設計模組細分出數個次模組，每個次模組是依據原有的拆模設計、模座設計、
工程圖設計所劃分(如拆模設計分出分模面與模具分割等次模組)，這些次模組稱為第二層模
組；部分的第二層模組在協同設計平台上可同步執行，此時，設計者之間便可進行第一階
段的協同設計，如圖十三。 
C. 系統客製化 
模具設計引導系統的各設計模組會有預設的工作流程，當預設的流程無法滿足現有的
工作環境時，系統管理者可進入後台編輯界面作系統的修正，例如更新作業流程，或者編
輯設計引導功能鍵。 
四 研究進度與成果 
A. 歷史知識庫 
歷史產品設計所累積下來的經驗知識，都將是提升新產品品質的設計參考，並與降低
試模、修模所花費的成本息息相關；因此在建立整個歷史產品知識庫時，必須充分的瞭解
如何有效的保存具有價值的資訊與知識，以及最佳效率地進行調閱參考，企業的價值才得
以充分顯現；其功能包含：分類、搜尋、比較與參考，讓歷史設計都能有效的被利用，如
圖十四。 
B. 零件知識庫 
標準零件資識庫在模具設計裡佔了很重要的角色，每個設計的模組在流程中都會搭配
零件資料庫的使用，其主要分類，如圖十五，可分為廠商規格件、模座件、標準常用件、
常用頂針件、標準模座庫、熱澆道系統，針對這些大類型可再細分出其樣式，透過類型與樣
式的分類方便設計者進入所需要的資料庫，並能在模具設計流程中與設計者做互動與調取
零件；零件知識庫的建立除了可減少設計者投入在標準零件上的設計工時及現場加工成
本，並可確保設計部門與模具廠資訊的一致性，將有效率地縮短進行模具設計所需花費時
間。 
C. 技術知識庫 
技術知識庫首頁會將各文件做分類，如圖十六，歸納出近期內所新增的文件以及被參
考次數最多的項目，讓使用者可以清楚掌握最新的技術知訊並整理出較實用的項目。除了
利用首頁查閱最新最熱門的文件外，使用者也可以透過文件分類標籤來搜尋、調閱所需的
文件檔案；而具有權限者也可對技術資料文件做編輯，如：新增文件、修改文件或更新附
加檔案的作業。 
D. 協同設計 
協同設計為加速產品開發及設計的一項利器，此系統管理了設計人員的設計權限，並
且利用Pro/E的骨架檔功能，可以輕易對所分配到的零件進行設計工作；在擁有設計權限的
使用者進入協同工作系統後，分別進入自己擁有權限的流程中開始設計工作，如圖十七。 
E. 系統客製化 
在系統管理模組中，管理者可點選所要編輯的設計模組，系統會將該模組的所有子流
程列表出來，管理者可以直接挑選現有的子模組或建立新的子模組加入位置編排欄位，編
輯各子模組的前後位置，並確定各子模組間的執行順序來控制流程運行方向，設定完成後
就可產生一組新的流程樣板供不同的專案套用，如圖十八；除此之外管理者也可直接進入
設計引導步驟中，直接做內文的修改以及工具列的編修，如圖十九。 
4 
八 圖、表 
 
圖一  三層式專案架構 
 
圖二  系統權限管理 
 
圖三  專案流程控管 
 
圖四  專案管理列表 
 
圖五  概念設計特徵標註 
6 
 
圖十二  歷史知識庫架構 
Level 1 Collaborative Design
Concept 
Analysis
Pre-Modeling
Mold Split
Parting 
Surface
Detail Design
Moldbase 
Design
Moldbase 
Draft 
Drawing
Moldbase 
Assembly
Moldbase 
Drawing
Plate 
Drawing
Component 
Drawing
Main Parting 
Surface
Cavity Design Slide Design
Slide Parting 
Surface
...
...
...
Core Side 
Drawing
Cavity Side 
Drawing ...
Lifter 
Drawing ...
Slide 
Drawing
Ejector Plate 
Drawing
Cavity Plate 
Drawing
Core Side 
Drawing
Cavity Side 
Drawing ...
Level 2 Collaborative Design
 
圖十三  模具協同設計流程圖 
 
圖十四  歷史知識庫分類比較 
 
圖十五  零件知識庫分類 
 
圖十六  技術知識庫介面 
 
圖十七  協同工作分配 
 
圖十八  流程編集 
 
 
圖十九  設計引導步驟編輯 
8 
九 計畫成果自評： 
(1) 研究內容與原計畫相符程度 
a. 本計劃之研究內容，依循計畫書之研究步驟進行，所有研究內容均與原計畫相符。 
(2) 達成預期目標情況 
本計畫暨延續第一、二年執行的可客制化之節能節料成型模具估價、設計、製造導引
管理系統的後續第三年研究開發。最後達成之結果如下： 
a. 實際建構出一個結合模具估價、設計導引及製造管理的整合系統。 
b. 透過網際網路進行系統操控，可以擺脫空間的限制，上網即可運作。 
c. 將業者意見納入系統考量，使系統更有實用性，更能達到實際應用的效益。 
d. 對於重複性高且單調繁瑣的工作，設計導引模組可完全取代，讓設計者專心致力於設
計工作，大幅的『降低設計時間』。 
e. 設計導引可將設計過的數據及圖檔資料予以保存，以利未來的設計者『參考使用前人
寶貴的設計經驗』。 
f. 可客製化的設計，可以滿足不同專業模具廠的需求，可以有效地縮短推廣的時間。 
g. 藉由知識管理讓模具設計製造能夠擁有更佳的導引輔助，除了能讓開發人員更方便的
搜尋所需知識，亦可當成新進人員最佳的訓練教材。 
本研究計畫成果已達到計畫預期之目標。 
(3) 學術及應用成果 
本計畫預計完成之具體學術貢獻如下 
a. 以CAD/CAM 軟體為中心之設計與製造模組的新架構。 
b. 可客製化網站架構的設計與開發。 
c. 網站修改、維護與管理的最佳化分析。 
d. 以資料控掘（Data Mining）評估CAD/CAM功能之使用，以作功能自動化的依據。 
e. 以資料挖掘，評估設計流程的合理性。 
f. KM的自我擴充機制。 
(4) 是否適合在學術期刊發表 
a. 相關論文： 
相關計劃發表之相關論文有： 
(a) W. R. Jong, C. H. Wu, M. Y. Li, Oct. 2009 “Web-based Navigating System for 
Conceptual Mold Design with Knowledge Management”, International Journal of 
Production Research, Accepted. 
NSC 95-2627-E-033-001 
(SCI, 2008 Impact Factor = 0.774) 
(b) W. R. Jong, C. H. Wu, H. H. Liu, M. Y. Li, Jan. 2009 “A Collaborative Navigation 
System for Concurrent Mold Design”, International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing 
Technology, Vol. 40 Issue 3-4 pp. 215-225. 
NSC 95-2627-E-033-001 
(SCI, 2008 Impact Factor=0.743) 
(c) W. R. Jong, T. C. Li, S. C. Chen, C. J. Shih, P. J. Lai, C. H. Wu, M. Y. Li, June 22-25 
2009, “Automatic Mold Design With Knowledge Management”, SPE Technical Papers, 
10 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  ■ 可技術移轉                                      日期：98 年 10 月 23 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：可客制化之節能節料成型模具估價、設計、製造導引管
理系統(III) 
計畫主持人：鍾文仁 
計畫編號：NSC 97 －2221－E－033－025－ 
學門領域：資訊技術及系統整合 
技術/創作名稱 可客制化之節能節料成型模具估價、設計、製造導引管理系統 
發明人/創作人 鍾文仁 
技術說明 
中文： 
本研究以 Pro/Web.Link 為核心程式。利用模具設計引導系統進行模
具設計、資料交換、流程控管及檢討與修正來提高模具的生產效率；
此系統除了引導設計人員逐步完成模具的開發，並且引進協同設計
的概念，建構協同設計系統，縮短整體設計程序與加強分工設計的
能力；另外也建構知識庫系統，設計者可直接透過網路調閱所需的
資訊，來輔助設計作業。 
英文： 
This research uses Pro/Web.Link as the core tool. Using mold-design 
navigating system to develop mold, exchange data, control process, 
examine and revise to improve production efficiency. The system leads 
in mold-design navigating system to guide designers to complete the 
mold development step by step. Introducing collaborative design concept 
and constructing collaborative design system help to reduce whole 
design process and raise the collaborative design ability. Building up 
knowledge databases makes engineers easily check the information they 
need. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
可利用於模具製造業，設計、加工、成型等工作； 
並可用於開發任何塑膠成型之產品。 
技術特點 
(1) 網路化系統，線上傳遞設計資訊 
(2) 以專案管理為基礎 CAD 軟體做結合，並支援同步與協同設計 
(3) 客製化、標準化的設計流程，可依需求訂定各家設計標準 
推廣及運用的價值 
(1) 採用模具協同設計引導系統可將原本需要 6~8 個工作天的設計時
間縮短至 1~2 個工作天 
(2) 藉由專案管理能夠達到有效率地專案運行與管控以及無紙化的
實現，而對於員工的績效評估也能持有公正的參考依據 
(3) 藉由設計引導系統能夠使新進人員快速上手設計作業，也能夠有
效保留傳承設計經驗與知識 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
附件一 
整體而言，此會議提供與會人士了解研究成果與新的研究趨勢外，與會人士
也可建立溝通管道，彼此交換心得與資料，對於研究的交流大有助益。 
三、 建議 
希望能多提供研究生出國發表論文的機會，促進學校整體的研究精神與實
力，進而培養老師、學生的國際觀，使台灣從事相關研究之學校，得以提升學府
在國際之名聲。 
四、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
ANTEC 會議論文隨身碟（包含所有本次會議所發表之文章及詳細內容）、會
議場次及時間表。 
附件 
1. Automatic Generating of Parting Surfaces  
In the design stage of parting surface, the designer 
clearly knows if the parting lines for parting surface is on 
proper positions according to the analysis of conceptual 
design, but he is unable to use the results of the analysis 
efficiently. Such design is wasting time. And the methods 
of parting surface design usually use surface to extend 
and trim. This does not only repeat a lot of tedious 
movements, but also reduces working efficiency 
substantially.  
This system automatically gets the parting lines 
through the application of layer management, and uses 
the parting lines to proceed automatic generation of 
parting surface. It can be finished in the shortest time 
even if it is a complicated shape. Moreover, not only does 
it avoid man-made mistake and miscellaneous operation, 
but also improves design efficiency to reach the fastest 
result at the same time as show in Figure 2. 
2. Knowledge Database for Parting Surfaces 
The accumulated experience in parting surface 
knowledge base will be able to offer the correct and 
immediate guidance to designers. It can assist designers 
in separating core and cavity step by step and offer the 
automatic function to help designers work faster.  The 
main structure can be divided into the main parting 
surfaces and the shut-off parting surface. Sub-types are 
divided according to proper classifications. Engineers link 
the page directly to the needed database by the classified 
way of class and type as shown in Figure 3. Parting 
surface knowledge base has systematic classification and 
the commonly used design. Designers can easily interact 
with the parting surface knowledge base, and they use it 
to increase the development speed of products. 
When the knowledge base becomes larger and larger, 
it may have lots of classification of separation design. In 
order to save the time of searching the knowledge, 
designers can directly inquire with searching function, 
and then searching results will be listed. The searching 
function clearly grasps the affiliated classification of this 
product and offers further design methodology. 
Moldbase-design Navigating System 
In the aspect of planning structure of the system, 
moldbase design follows the intelligent core design 
system as shown in Figure 4. Moldbase designs in a 
whole process of the mold design are divided by the 
function, the kind, and the design. The moldbase 
navigating system is integrated with the knowledge 
management and the core design module. Three parts are 
planned: the moldbase design, the detail design and the 
moldbase assembling. Sub-modules are used by the split 
parts in the detailed design module. In addition, this 
system offers the verified function in order to keep the 
design reasonable and safe, such as Cooling-line Design 
Safety in detail design and Interference Detection in 
moldbase assembling. 
1. Automatic Mechanism Design-Slider 
Slider mainly helps to release products with 
undercuts from the mold. If the product has slider or lifter 
mechanisms, its mold structure becomes more 
complicated. The increase of the mold components raises 
the price of the mold. Despite these existing questions, 
the slider design increases the integrity of the products, 
and reduces the assembling time of the part.  
During the process of designing slider, the designer 
knows the slider position in order to design through the 
display of layers. The program knows how many sliders 
need to be designed. Furthermore, the function assembles 
slider surfaces to the appropriate position automatically.  
Because the parting surfaces and the patching 
surfaces have been designed and finished, the mold can 
be directly split up into the core and the cavity. After 
designing the slider surfaces, the module continues the 
design of slider blocks. The function uses solid and 
surface to intersect the side-cavities for slider, which is 
split from cavity and slider surfaces. The side-cores for 
slider are designed in the same way. Finally, slider design 
attaches the two slider components. 
2. Cooling-line Design Safety Check 
When doing cooling-line design in mold, the number, 
size and location are very important. Besides that, there 
are many ejection mechanisms in the mold. The question 
on how to do a safety and reasonable cooling-line design 
to avoid interfering with other structure is a crucial point. 
This research provides an automatic cooling-line design, 
which assists designer in standard designing process. In 
addition, this system offers a check function of 
cooling-line design. It can calculate the minimum 
distance between designed mechanical features and each 
cooling line and show the result in a web report as show 
in Figure 5. 
3. Interference Detection 
When the mold design of a product is finished, 
hundreds components are produced. These components 
assembled by designers may have assembling mistakes 
and unfinished screw holes. The incorrect mold assembly 
may cause the mistakes in designing and manufacturing. 
Therefore, at the last stage of mold design, the 
interference inspection must be performed on the whole 
mold assembly and correct the possible mistakes. 
Although there are interfering tools in the CAD software 
Pro/ENGINEER, the huge number of the components 
will slow down the processing speeds. Furthermore, the 
checked results will be very complicated and is difficult 
to be interpreted effectively. For quickly checking the 
whole assembling components, this research 
automatically checks interference components by 
Pro/Web.Link API tools. The system is operated 
automatically to shorten the time through the dedicated 
implementation. 
This research sets the range of interfering result 
before checking interference, such as the special 
1756 / ANTEC 2009
  
Figure 1.  The Flow Chart of the Mold Design Module 
 
 
Figure 2.  Automatic Generating of Parting Surfaces  
 
  
Figure 3.  Knowledge Base for the Parting Surface 
 
 
Figure 4.  The Flow Chart of the Moldbase Design 
Module 
1758 / ANTEC 2009
