 1
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
無中介結構之電磁能量轉換裝置相關技術及原型開發(3/3) 
計畫編號 : NSC 95-2221-E-110-115-MY3 
執行期限 : 95 年 08 月 01 日 至 98 年 07 月 31 日 
主持人 : 劉承宗 教授 國立中山大學 電機工程學系 
  計畫參與人員 : 凃俊宏 劉立洋 徐豫偉 國立中山大學 電機工程學系 
                        
 
中文摘要：在本研究計畫成果報告中，將針對
無中介結構電磁能量轉換裝置進行完整的結構
設計討論。在討論的標的物上乃是選擇現今應
用於鋼鐵工業中的此類電機範例-模內電磁攪
拌器(In-mold Electromagnetic Stirrers, M-EMS)
來加以進行討論分析，並進一步地根據此類的
鑄模結構以及產品形狀來探究改進 M-EMS 提
供電磁推進力的可能方式。由於 M-EMS 的定
子線圈以及結構將對系統整體的特性產生決定
性之影響，因此本計畫中針對系統結構推導出
具有極高可信度的精簡數學模型以提供現場工
程師應用。除此之外亦評估現有鋼鐵廠中的各
種 M-EMS 的操作概念，並以節省成本的簡易
方式針對磁通路徑以及不同的定子線圈排列加
以進行討論分析以獲得詳盡的功率改良依據。 
 
關鍵詞：渦電流、電磁攪拌器、有限元素分析、
結構模型改善 
 
Abstract - In this research report, an in-mold 
electromagnetic stirrers (M-EMS) that are 
generally implemented at the continuous casting 
process to provide the desired stirring forces to 
remove those undesired inclusions and bubbles 
during the metal solidification, will be thoroughly 
investigated and the feasible adjustments that can 
improve the overall system performance will be 
reported. As the system is mainly operated by 
interaction of induced eddy currents and 
composite traveling electromagnetic fields in the 
molten metal, inputs of stator currents and 
structures of M-EMS will dominate the entire 
system performance. Assisted by three- 
dimensional (3-D) finite element analysis (FEA) 
and flux path modeling refinements, a compact 
analytical model with sufficient accuracy that can 
adequately predict the time-averaged 
performance of the M-EMS system at various 
structural- and material-compositions will be 
devised. In addition, due to their high installation 
costs and limited operational spaces, 
modifications on the existing M-EMS systems to 
improve their overall performance are restricted. 
The feasible electrical and mechanical adjustment 
schemes that can supply enhancements to the 
electromagnetic fields and the desired stirring 
forces of the M-EMS will be systematically 
developed. From such encouraging results, it is 
believed that a valuable design and improvement 
guidance can be supplied to the related metal 
industries. 
 
Keywords - Eddy currents, electromagnetic stirrer, 
finite element analysis, model refinement.
 3
 0 cos( )H H t 2πy l= − +ω ξ , (2) 
 
in which ξ  is the equivalent angular 
displacement among the stator winding currents 
and the magnetic fields, 
0 0 0 0= + +H
G G G
x y zx y zH a H a H a  is the combined 
magnetic fields contributed from stator winding 
current J ss  and steel induced eddy current Jsm  
at the reference position. 
According to the spatial Cartesian coordinates, 
the generalized steady-state induced electric 
fields E along the molten steel can be written as 
.= + +E G G Gx y zx y zE a E a E a  To simplify the 
modeling process, with a relatively small air-gap, 
as shown in Fig. 3(b), it is first assumed that the 
magnetic field is flowing normally out of the 
stator pole surfaces and entering the molten steel. 
Hence the generated magnetic field will mainly 
be in the x direction. Also, as the equivalent 
traveling magnetic fields magnetic fields are 
mainly in the y direction and the variation of 
electric field in the z direction within a pole range 
can be ignored, the electric field can then be 
characterized as 
 
 0 sin( 2 )z x
E H t y l
y
∂ = − +∂ ωμ ω π ξ , (3) 
 
where μ is the permeability of the molten steel. 
After some derivations, the corresponding 
z-directional electric field can then be derived and 
the induced ith surface eddy current in the 
conductive parts of the molten steel can be 
derived as 
 
 J Esmi i=σ , (4) 
 
where σi  is the conductivity of the ith molten 
steel surface. By referring to Fig. 3(b), as the 
magnetic fields are assumed in the x direction, the 
integration of magnetic field along an enclosed 
path C that covers one stator pole and the 
individual molten steel surface i, can be 
expressed as 
 
 
0
0
, *
,
( ) [( ) ] [ ]
cos( )
   ( ) ,
H H J
y y
y
x z zC
ssy z sy y
smi z p
d xa a s a s
J t 2πy l A
J x g dy
+Δ
=
⋅ ≈ ∇× ⋅ Δ = ⋅ Δ∫
= −
+ −∫
G G Gv
ω  
(5)
 
 
in which x is the distance between stator pole and 
the individual surface i, gp is the system physical 
air gap, As is the equivalent area of individual 
stator slot, and Jsmi,z is the z-directional induced 
eddy current density of the ith surface. With the 
y-directional speed of combined traveling 
magnetic field being defined as vs and that for the 
molten steel being defined as vm, a relative speed 
difference between these two values is defined as 
s ( ( ) ).= −s m ss v v v  By selecting 
0 12,= −y l 6,Δ =y l  and * 0,=y  (5) can be 
expressed as 
 
0
0,
[ sin( ) ( )cos( )]
cos( )  ,
x m p
ss z s
H x t K x g t
J t A
− + + − +
=
ω ω
ω
ξ ξ
 (6) 
 
where ( 2 ) .=m i sK l svπμσ  Since the system is 
designed to have steady-state positive-sequence 
sinusoidal stator 3-phase current inputs with the 
related winding directions and arrangements as 
  
Fig. 2.  The system 3-phase stator winding arrangement. 
 
Pole
Molten 
steely
x
Equivalent 
induction surface
z
(a) Conceptual structure for analysis. 
 
(b) Illustration for the ith molten steel surface. 
Fig. 3.  The localized system structure for analytical model 
development. 
 5
problems [12], [13] that are suitable for the 
detailed 3-D FEA of the M-EMS systems, for 
preliminary comparisons, only the time-averaged 
system operational electromagnetic force 
densities that will be applied onto the molten steel 
at one of the physical condition will be illustrated 
in Fig. 6. Despite the dimension differences 
among these force densities obtained from the3-D 
FEA and the analytical model, similarity of these 
patterns will first be assessed. The 
double-frequency effects, as illustrated in the 
analytical force model of (9), can be clearly 
observed from those force density distributions 
on the molten steel. With an applied stator current 
frequency of 3 Hz, two cycles of force patterns 
will be completed at every of the geometrical y 
position within the period of 1/3 sec. Also, since 
there are two sets of 3-phase windings mounted 
on each side of the stator, with the length of mold 
being slightly shorter than the stator, the 
generated forces along the propulsive (y) 
direction at any time instance will reveal a pattern 
with almost four mechanical cycles. Besides, as 
can be observed form Figs. 6(a) and 6(b), with 
those force patterns being propagated to the y 
direction, the positive y-directional 
electromagnetic forces at various time instances 
as predicted by (9) can be clearly identified. 
As one can be observed from Figs. 1 and 2, 
instead of mounting on the poles, the windings 
are wound on the stator slots to produce the 
magnetic flux flowing to the mold and molten 
steel surfaces. Also, due to the low permeability 
of air gap, mold copper shield, and molten steel, 
as depicted in Fig. 7(a), certain portions of fluxes 
that are flowing out of the stator poles will not 
 
(a) Generated magnetic field (y-z plane). 
 
(b) Induced eddy current (y-z plane). 
 
(c) 3-D distribution of the stirring forces. 
 
(d) Generated force density (x-y plane). 
Fig. 5.  Graphical illustrations of the M-EMS system 
performance at one time instance obtained from 3-D FEA. 
 
(a) System force density obtained from 3-D FEA.  
 
(b) System force density obtained from devised analytical 
model. 
Fig. 6.  The system generated electromagnetic forces at 
one physical operational condition (x = 87.5 mm). 
 7
1
0
( ) [ ( ) ( ) ]
            ( ) ( ) .
G
p
x x
mk s k m k
g
mk mk
x A a x dx jK a x dx
G x x
−= +∫ ∫
= ∠θ
 
 
Hence, based on the revised system models with 
the flux decaying effects being taken into account, 
the operational electromagnetic force density in 
the desired propulsive (y-) direction, can be 
rewritten as 
 
 
2
2 2 2
0,
2
( ) ( ) ( )
        ( ) ( )
2
            [1 cos 2( ( ))] .
F J Hi smi
s i
mk k ss z
y
mk yl
x x x
sv G x a x J
t x a
= ×
≈
⋅ − − + Gπ
μ
σ μ
ω θ
 
(16)
 
 
From (16) and Fig. 9, the averaged force 
densities based on three typical approximation 
functions a1(x)~a3(x), are provided in Table II. 
Clearly a1(x) represents the case for original 
idealized derivations, from which an 
overestimated force level is obtained. While for 
the stringent case by using a2(x), the air-gap 
magnetic field effects will be minimized and 
consequently a still larger force level will be 
resulted in. It is thus convinced that a rational 
selection of a3(x) that lies between the two 
extreme cases will provide the desired system 
performance predictions. By comparing with the 
3-D FEA results as shown in Fig. 6(a) that has an 
averaged force density level of 10.71 kN/m3, with 
only an optimistic 6% deficiency, acceptance of 
using the refined force patterns to predict M-EMS 
system performance can be confirmed. 
IV. Performance Evaluations 
A. Effects of System Electromagnetic Inputs 
In practical applications, it is desirable to 
control the applied stator winding 
electromagnetic sources according to the system 
operational requirements continuously. As can be 
observed from Fig. 10, the refined analytical 
model will provide accurate enough predictions 
of the system generated electromagnetic forces by 
comparing the results with those obtained from 
3-D FEA. Also, by contrasting with (16), the 
generated electromagnetic forces will 
respectively exhibit quadratic relationships with 
the winding currents and linear relationships with 
the current frequencies, except when the system 
rated level (550 A) is exceeded, which will drive 
the M-EMS system into saturation. 
B. Effects of Metal Properties 
Since the operational forces at molten metals 
are mainly dependent on the interactions among 
magnetic fields and induced eddy currents, as 
shown in Fig. 11, the impacts of electromagnetic 
forces at various metal properties will be 
investigated. The conductivities of molten metals 
will exhibit large order differences, for example, 
those for the steel and aluminum are respectively 
7¯105 and 5¯106 (1/Ω-m). While for the 
TABLE II 
Averaged Forces with Different Approximation Functions 
Approximation 
functions Averaged force density (kN/m
3)
a1(x) 192.259 
a2(x) 24.427 
a3(x) 11.370 
 
Distance from the stator pole surface, x (m)
0.00 0.05 0.10 0.15 0.20
0
20
40
60
80
100
air gap
copper
molten steel
a1(x)
a2(x)
a3(x)
 
Fig. 9.  Equivalent representation of x-directional flux. 
Winding current (A)
200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900
Fo
rc
e 
de
ns
ity
  (
kN
/m
3 )
0
10
20
30
40
Refined analytical model
3-D FEA
(a) At different winding currents. 
Source frequency (Hz)
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Fo
rc
e 
de
ns
ity
 (k
N
/m
3 )
0
10
20
30
40
Refined analytical model
3-D FEA
(b) At different source current frequencies. 
Fig. 10.  System surface forces at various electromagnetic 
inputs. 
 9
hence the electromagnetic force will hardly be 
affected by the slot width variation. 
By setting fixed external mold size and air gap, 
it can be expected that thicker mold will reduce 
the magnetic fields flowing through the molten 
metal surfaces, and the generated forces will 
certainly be reduced as illustrated in Fig. 12(d). 
V. Feasible System Adjustments 
As can be observed from Fig. 1(a), it is obvious 
that with appropriate multiphase currents inject 
into the stator windings, a pulsating magnetic 
field will be generated from every individual 
stator pole in the corresponding spatial directions. 
However, the combined pulsating magnetic fields 
flowing out of all the stator poles will be an 
equivalent traveling magnetic field in the system 
corresponding y direction. By properly adjusting 
the frequencies, phase sequences, and magnitudes 
of these winding currents, controllable 
electromagnetic forces can be obtained for 
fulfilling the desired stirring objective to drive the 
molten metals. 
From (1), (2) and [14], it can be observed that 
the main concerns of such common designs are 
the generated electromagnetic forces at those 
surfaces that are facing the stator poles. Hence, if 
the x-directional magnetic field at every y-position 
can be increased, then the y-directional forces that 
can apply onto the molten metals at those surfaces 
will be augmented [10]. However, the resultant 
electromagnetic forces at those surfaces facing the 
mold shorter edges have generally been ignored 
due to the relatively smaller y-directional 
magnetic fields passing through these surfaces. 
Consequently, the operational efficiencies of such 
M-EMS systems will be very low due to these 
flux leakages. 
With the high operational temperatures, the 
magnetic properties of those molten metals inside 
the molds are quite resembled to that of the air. 
Hence the composite system operational forces on 
the molten metals as shown in (16) can thus be 
generally expressed as 
 
 0( , , ) ( , , ) ( , , )F J H= ×em smx y z x y z x y zμ . (17) 
 
Some mechanical structures, either by using 
quadrilateral stator structures [15] or by enclosing 
those two open-end stators with a yoke [16], have 
been proposed to improve the system overall 
performance. However, the extra electrical 
energies or mechanical spaces requirements make 
such designs and adjustments hard to be 
implemented onto those existing M- EMS 
systems. Based on such considerations, with same 
stator input currents, two feasible adjustments are 
proposed. 
A. Electrical Adjustments 
As illustrated in Fig. 13(a), the original stator 
multiphase windings at one side of the mold are 
arranged in a 4-pole manner. By referring to (2), 
if such arrangement is adjusted to a 2-pole one, as 
shown in Fig. 13(b), the possible magnetic field 
intensities in the corresponding regions of molten 
metals shall be larger. Certainly, from (17), the 
induced eddy currents and the resultant averaged 
electromagnetic forces will become larger due to 
such interactions. 
To maintain the same stirring speed, the 
injecting current frequency can be increased to 
counter the slower traveling magnetic field 
effects. Of course, extra driver control schemes 
have to be implemented onto the original power 
devices, but the additional hardware/software 
costs are relatively low. 
B. Mechanical Adjustments 
From the aforementioned material and 
mechanical constraints, it is understood that the 
M-EMS system will have large flux decaying 
effects on those regions outside the two stator 
cores. As illustrated in Fig. 14(a), such magnitude 
variations of the flux densities among these 
regions can be clearly observed. It can be 
observed that especially at the end sites of both 
stators, due to the magnetic properties, most parts 
of the magnetic fluxes will directly leak to the 
open space, not flowing through the mold and the 
molten metals. Hence the electromagnetic energy 
contributed by the stator winding currents cannot 
be fully utilized at such structure. 
By attaching extra laminated iron cores on both 
 
(a) Original 4-pole design. 
 
(b) Proposed 2-pole design. 
Fig. 13.  Different stator winding arrangements at one side 
of the M-EMS system. 
 11
can be verified. 
A further comparison will be conducted on the 
evaluations of time-averaged system operational 
forces, so the overall performance of these three 
structures can be better assessed. Fig. 18 
illustrates these force distributions that are 
applied onto the molten metals inside the molds 
at xy-plane, with their centers being aligned to the 
stator cores. The differences of force magnitudes 
are indirectly indicated by the arrow sizes in the 
graphs, and the improvement effects on those 
generated electromagnetic forces can be 
observed. 
To provide a quantitative assessment, by 
injecting rated currents (550 A, 3 Hz.) into the 
M-EMS system stator windings, the flux densities 
and averaged electromagnetic forces at those 
regions along the inner longer edges of the molds 
have been evaluated. Table III provides these 
valuable information, and it can first be clearly 
observed that both of the adjusted system 
structures will provide about 12% larger 
maximum flux densities at the molten metals. For 
the generated 3-D electromagnetic forces, the 
2-pole system structure will supply only 6.6% 
larger force levels in the desired y direction, while 
a 50% one in the x-directional and a huge 180% 
one in the z-directional force improvements will 
certainly provide an excellent “stirring” effect 
onto the molten metals. However, such stirring 
effect might also introduce some unwanted 
directional turbulences in the molten metals that 
might even worse the desired impurity reduction 
objective. Such observations can also be 
supported by the force distribution plots as shown 
in Fig. 18(b). 
On the other hand, by implementing the 
mechanical attachment system structure, the 
M-EMS system will provide a 27% y-directional 
force enhancement, while the x- and z-directional 
forces will have 8 to 12% reductions by 
comparing with those in the original system 
design at the same time frames. Also, as can be 
confirmed from Fig. 18(c), a more guided 
y-directional path for the desired “stirring” forces 
can then be supplied to the M-EMS system 
implemented with the proposed mechanical 
attachments [17]. 
 
(a) At the original 4-pole system structure. 
 
(b) At the proposed electrical 2-pole system structure. 
 
(c) At the proposed mechanical attachment system 
structure. 
Fig. 17.  Magnetic flux density distributions in the air gaps 
and the molds of the M-EMS systems (xy-plane). 
TABLE III 
Time-averaged Electromagnetic Characteristics in the 
Molds of Different M-EMS Systems 
System Structure 
Performance 
Index Original 
system 
2-pole 
system 
Mechanical 
attachment 
system 
Maximum flux 
density (T) 0.2060 0.2301 0.2303 
x-directional 
averaged force 
density (N/m3)
1666.0 2478.0 1527.0 
y-directional 
averaged force 
density (N/m3)
8912.0 9497.0 11323.0 
z-directional 
averaged force 
density (N/m3)
1318.0 3728.0 1162.0 
 
 
(a) At the original 4-pole system structure. 
 
(b) At the proposed electrical 2-pole system structure. 
 
(c) At the proposed mechanical attachment system 
structure. 
Fig. 18.  Time-averaged electromagnetic force 
distributions inside the molds of the M-EMS systems 
(xy-plane). 
 13
【成果自評】 
 
1. 與原計畫相符程度： 
 
本報告中所研究的電機機械架構-模內電磁
攪拌器乃是計畫中所提到之無中介結構電磁能
量轉換裝置的在結構以及應用方面具體而微的
一個例證。此一電動機的定子線圈架構與傳統
的線性感應電動機相仿，但是卻是以熔解的鋼
液為此一電動機的受驅控動子。因為電機架構
上無法應用傳統電機一、二次側均具有高導磁
的特性，使得磁路的分佈將大大的影響此一系
統架構的操作性能。因此在本計畫中，我們即
針對此一課題，主要的除了發展建構完整的理
論估測模型，以掌握不同尺寸及應用規範下的
電機操作性能外。另外並透過在不改變既有的
架構下，利用簡單的外加結構改善以及不同的
定子線圈排列方式，藉由理論的模擬計算後，
來改善既有系統裝備，並探究藉由改變磁場路
徑以提昇系統運作效能之可行性。因此不論從
欲達成之目標及研究標的來觀之，均與原計畫
出發點訴求契合。 
 
2. 達成預期目標情況： 
 
在計畫中所設定的目標是針對既有工業設
備中之電磁攪拌器架構作完整的設計分析理論
建構，並藉由本報告中所建議的改善方式，在
不改變既有的架構下，利用簡單的外加結構改
善以及理論的模擬計算後，設計開發出一適當
又簡易之架構連結，使得該電磁攪拌器系統在
不增加電能輸入之前提下，透過磁場路徑之修
正而能達到性能提昇的目的。從詳細的三維電
磁計算結果中可以看出，以節省成本的簡易方
式針對磁通路徑以及不同的定子線圈排列加以
進行討論分析而獲得功率改良甚佳，目標達成
狀況甚為理想。 
 
3. 研究成果的學術或應用價值： 
 
報告中針對電磁攪拌器進行了完整的理論
分析以及詳盡的三維有限元素電磁場模擬計
算，並且提出了特殊的磁場導向概念，以應用
在我國相關的金屬重工業工廠相關的系統中。
此一成果將可充分利用既有的設備架構與電力
能源輸入，達到顯著改善整體性能的成效。除
了可以提供一線性電機的電磁特性討論學術空
間，也可以在此一理論架構下提供予相關的工
業界在面對類似的線性電動機系統時，能夠依
不同的既有機械架構而有一可資遵循的性能改
善與設計方向。 
 
4. 是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利： 
 
在本計畫三年的執行過程中所獲得的成果
與內容，除了針對無中介結構之電磁能量轉換
裝置建構了詳細的數學模型外，也完整的對於
各種電磁特性加以歸納分析討論，其內容將極
為適合發表於有關電動機之架構設計應用或者
討論電磁特性等國際性學術會議與期刊上。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-110-115-MY3 
計畫名稱 無中介結構之電磁能量轉換裝置相關技術及原型開發(3/3) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
劉承宗  國立中山大學 教授 
會議時間地點 2008/10/17 - 2008/10/20，中國湖北省武漢市（Wuhan, Hubei, China）
會議名稱 第十一屆國際電機機械暨系統研討會（The 11
th International Conference 
on Electrical Machines and Systems, ICEMS 2008） 
發表論文題目 Fuzzy-based Linear Motion Control of a Non-contacting Steel Plate Conveyance System 
 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
此次筆者所參加之第十一屆國際電機機械暨系統研討會（The 11th International Conference 
on Electrical Machines and Systems, ICEMS 2008）乃是分別於今年的十月十七日至十月二
十日止共四天的時間中於中國湖北省武漢市（Wuhan, Hubei, China）所舉行。本人乃是於十
月十六日清晨先行由高雄小港機場（KHH）搭乘華信班機飛往香港（HKG），再轉搭中國南
方航空班機飛達目的地武漢（WUH）再搭車至旅館時則已是下午三點多了。而在完成報到手
續之後，接續來的幾天緊湊參訪與會議交流行程則可分述如下： 
a. 十月十六日: 
 本日完成報到手續後即在旅館內休息，俟傍晚時分與國內來此參加本會議的教授先進們
（包含國科會工程處蔡明祺處長、電力學門召集人中央大學林法正教授、成功大學楊宏
澤、梁從主兩位教授，以及成大的楊博士及中華大學之侯講師）會合後共同用晚餐，並
商討隔日及計畫於本項會議中彼此相關的活動。 
b. 十月十七日: 
 本日一大清早會合後，即由蔡處長率隊赴武漢大學電氣工程學院參訪，受到該院幾位副
院長（院長出差）及相關系所主管的熱忱接待，除了溝通彼此的研究發展狀況外，也由
蔡處長主導進一步地探究了兩岸相關的科技合作的可能性。除此之外，我們也參觀了該
 3
d. 十月十九日: 
 本日在個人的行程上較為輕鬆，並沒有自己需負
責主持或發表的論文場次。早上依個人專長與興
趣參與了幾場的論文發表，聆聽相關領域的發展與最新現況；下午則是大會邀請之幾位
貴賓的專業演講，讓我們瞭解到日本、美國、南韓及大陸在電機及驅動領域上的最新發
展。接著大會舉辦了專業論文部分的閉幕典禮，再參加了大會晚宴後就回房收拾行李打
包了。 
e. 十月二十日: 
 由於班機銜接及班次關係，本日一早六點即退房搭車至武漢天河機場，搭機經香港轉回
至高雄時已經下午兩點多，算是完滿地結束了這一趟五天四夜的會議行程。 
 
 
二、與會心得 
 
此次之第十一届國際電機機械暨系統研討會（ICEMS 2008）乃是在武漢市香格里拉大
飯店所舉行。會議由中國電工技術學會（CES）、中國國家自然科學基金委員會（NSFC）、
韓國電氣工程學會（KIEE）和日本電氣工程學會（IEEJ）聯合主辦，並由華中科技大
學電氣學院電機系承辦，會議得到美國 IEEE工業應用協會（IEEE IAS）、工業電子學
會（IEEE IES）和英國工程與技術協會（IET）技術的支持。實為年度上國際間相關工
程專業領域上相當重要的幾個高水準國際會議之一。由於該會議定位為年度世界電機及
系統領域專家學者交流的大型學術平臺，自 1987 年以來已連續舉辦了 10 屆，具有相
 
本人與韓國籍教授 S. K. Park於 PE2論文 
發表會場共同主持時合影 
 
本人於 PE3論文發表會場口頭發表
論文 PEO-21時攝 
 5
 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
z Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on Electrical Machines and 
Systems, ICEMS 2008, in CD-ROM ─ 包含所有發表於此研討會之所有論文摘要
與論文全文（Abstract & Full paper）。 
 
from the steel plate tilting and yawing effects during the 
conveyance process. An on-line control system integrated with 
the optical gap measurement system has been set up as shown in 
Fig. 2. It can be noticed that the normal force and the driven 
speed of the steel plate are selected as the control targets. By 
using the analytical model devised in [10], [11], the associated 
operational magnetic characteristics of the proposed system can 
be estimated. By using the virtual work method, Fig. 3 depicts 
the predicted time-averaged force variations with different stator 
current frequencies at fixed air gap and current magnitude of the 
experimental system. This indirect scheme can be formulated in 
advance to determine the initial reference value of the stator 
winding current Isj,ref for the desired fuzzy-based control unit. 
The measured on-line air gaps gj and winding currents Isj of the 
conveyance system are used to regulate the fuzzy sets and fuzzy 
rules, along with the continuously evaluated system forces, the 
required adjustments of stator winding currents ΔIsj can be 
precisely estimated. Hence the corresponding stator winding 
current requirements Isj* can thus be obtained to generate the 
desired stator winding driver voltages Vsj.  
Preliminary investigations based on some static experiments 
were performed to study the feasibility of implementing 
DSP-based controller combined with required peripheral 
circuits [12]. By using the feedbacks signals obtained from those 
load cells mounted below the steel plate, the system normal 
force level can be properly adjusted. As depicted in Fig. 4, the 
experimental measurements showed that the pilot hardware 
scheme could fulfill the desired control tasks. 
Based on the aforementioned driver control scheme and the 
linear induction motor operational principle, a laboratory 
prototype for the proposed non-contacting steel plate 
conveyance system has been developed in Fig. 5 and its related 
parameters are provided in Table I. As show in Fig. 5, a digital 
camera is installed remotely to capture the system regional area 
image that will cover the stator poles, the gaps, and the movable 
steel plate. Based on such framework, the digital image data will 
then go through the designed process to establish the desired 
2-D gap profile. As illustrated in Fig. 6, at a fixed air gap of 2 
mm, the system images before and after this gap image 
processing scheme are provided. From such real-time gap 
feedback signals, the operational electromagnetic forces 
provided by the stator poles can be precisely calculated and the 
required winding currents can thus be rapidly controlled. 
 
Figure 5. Experimental setups of the proposed steel plate conveyance system 
prototype integrated with an optical gap measurement system. 
Figure 3. Predictions of the time-averaged propulsive forces at certain 
operational condition (1.5 A, 2 mm) obtained from analytical model. 
Figure 4. Normal force commands and responses from static experiments. 
 
Figure 2. On-line integrated control system structure for the proposed non-contacting conveyance system. 
center of each stator pole region. The sK  and mK  matrices can 
be further derived and simplified as 
4 2
3 3
5
6 6 2
cos( ) cos( ) cos(0) 1 3 1 3 2 3
2 cos( ) cos( ) cos( ) 1 3 1 3 0
3
1 3 1 3 1 31 2 1 2 1 2
s
π π
π π π
⎡ ⎤ − −⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥= = −⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎣ ⎦⎣ ⎦
K , (2) 
and 
4 2
3 3
5
6 6 2
cos( ) cos( ) cos( )
2 cos( ) cos( ) cos( )
3
1 2 1 2 1 2
m m m
m m m m
kd kd kd
kd kd kd
π π
π π π
⎡ ⎤− −⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥= − − +⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
K , (3) 
where 2k π τ= . Through such variables transformation process, 
it is reasonable to premise that the normal force requirement will 
be contributed by the d-axis current component and the 
propulsive force requirement by the q-axis current component. 
Therefore, when the normal force reference, which equals to the 
shared steel plate weight at this region, and the desired 
operational air gap have both been defined, the desired d-axis 
current level can be estimated by using the Magnetic Equivalent 
Circuit (EMC) method as described in [10]. Once this estimation 
step for deciding the preset levels of stator winding currents has 
been completed, the operational air gaps and tilting/yawing 
effects during the conveyance process will be handled by the 
fuzzy-based controller. 
B.   Fuzzy control strategy 
By referring to the first layer fuzzy system as shown in Fig. 7, 
the on-line measured winding current Isj and the air gap gj under 
each stator pole are used to regulate the fuzzy sets and fuzzy 
rules, the corresponding normal pattern of the stator winding 
current requirements Inj can thus be obtained through the system 
defuzzification process. The associated boundaries of those 
Lambda-type (Λ) membership functions, μ(Δgj) and μ(ΔInj), are 
depicted in Fig. 9. Among which Δgj is the air gap deviation and 
ΔInj is the current deviation of individual winding current, with 
,maxj tol ref
+Δ = −g g g ,  (4) 
,minj tol ref
−Δ = −g g g ,  (5) 
,maxnj s nj
+Δ = −I I I , and (6) 
,minnj s nj
−Δ = −I I I ,  (7) 
where gtol,max is the maximum tolerable air gap value, gtol,min is 
the minimum tolerable air gap, Is,max is the maximum winding 
current value, and Is,min is the minimum winding current value. 
With the above membership functions being defined, the fuzzy 
inference process can then be systematically formulated. 
For providing appropriate normal and propulsive forces 
simultaneously, the normal force pattern can be viewed as an 
evident DC offsets to mainly contribute the normal force 
requirement, while some AC modulation waves with small 
amplitudes are used to generate a traveling magnetic field which 
can drive the steel plate to its objective direction. By substituting 
the air gap gref and the desired propulsive force reference FP,ref 
into the analytical model as devised in [11], the propulsive 
pattern of winding current ΔIpj can be further predicted. 
Therefore, the secondary layer fuzzy system is mainly designed 
to complete the current composition task of ΔInj and ΔIpj. An 
adjustable membership functions of μc(ΔInj) and μc(ΔIpj) can 
also be well defined, where the boundaries can be formulated as 
,pj p ref
−Δ =−I I ,  (8) 
,pj p ref
+Δ =I I , (9) 
,maxsp s sj
−Δ = −I I I , and (10) 
,maxsp s sj
+Δ = −I I I , (11) 
where Ip,ref is the peak current value of the AC modulation wave. 
Since the membership functions have been rationally decided, 
 
Figure 8.  Relative pole and axis positions of the linear induction motor structure 
for non-contacting steel plate conveyance system. 
 
(a) Input membership function. 
(b) Output membership function. 
Figure 9.  Adjustable Lambda-type fuzzy membership functions for normal 
force controller.  
