maximum or the minimum travel time. To evaluate the 
performance of the system, we have performed computer 
simulations using traffic model simulator VISSIM. The 
simulation results indicate that our approach 
significantly reduces the number of traffic reports 
and the loading of the TIC, and we can accurately 
catch the change of the travel time during traffic 
congestions. 
英文關鍵詞： Traffic information, GPS, mobile sensor, query-
response 
 
2 
 
I. Introduction 
As the number of vehicles constantly increases and traffic congestions become daily 
phenomenon in urban areas, it is more and more important to provide real-time traffic information to 
drivers traveling on urban roads. With real-time traffic information, drivers can avoid congested 
roads to save travel time and reduce fuel consumption. Many countries around the world have been 
committed to build Traffic Information System (TIS) for the benefits mentioned above. For example, 
in 1991, the European Road Transport Telematics Implementation Coordination Organization 
(ERTICO) committed to providing real-time traffic information [1]. Service providers, such as 
TomTom [2], IntelliOne [3], ITIS Holdings PLC [4] and Mediamobile [5] have developed 
applications to provide real-time traffic information recently. 
There are two primary methods in collecting real-time traffic information. One uses stationary 
vehicles detectors (VD) [6-7], such as inductive loops, radar devices, and video image processors 
installed on the road segments under surveillance to obtain real-time traffic data. Inductive loops are 
embedded in the road surface to measure the number of vehicles passing by and the speed of the 
vehicles. Video image processors installed beside or above road segments also measure the flow and 
speed of the passing-by vehicles. The average speed of the passing-by vehicles in a time interval 
measured by a stationary VD is referred to as Time Mean Speed (TMS). Some intelligent video 
image processors are capable of reading vehicle plate numbers. When a vehicle passes by two such 
processors, the vehicle’s traveling speed between can be obtained. This speed is referred to as Space 
Mean Speed (SMS). Although vehicle detectors are very accurate in calculating the number of 
passing vehicles, Each VD requires a communications link back to the Traffic Information Center 
(TIC). Moreover, due to extreme weather exposure, the failure rates of VDs are usually high. 
Therefore, stationary VDs are very expensive to install, operate and maintain, and their installations 
are typically limited to freeway or highway surveillance. 
The other method uses floating car data (FCD) to measure traffic speed. In FCD systems, probe 
vehicles collect their own traveling data, and share the information with others [11-16]. As long as 
probe vehicles travel on a road, the traffic information of the road can be collected. The coverage of 
the FCD can be very wide if a sufficient number of probe vehicles are deployed. Compared with the 
stationary VD technique, since there is no need to build and maintain the extra traffic sensors on the 
roads, FCD systems can be more cost–effective, and cover a wider road network. It’s suitable to use 
FCD system to maintain the traffic information in urban roads. Traditionally, fleet vehicles, such as 
taxi and public transportation buses, are equipped with GPS receivers and used as probes. Due to the 
widely use of smart phones with GPS capabilities, Mohan et al. [8] has proposed a method using 
mobile smart phones as probes to monitor the traffic conditions. As a result, the number of probes 
can be potentially huge. 
A new approach of FCD systems uses cellular network control messages, such as location 
update and handover, to detect traffic speed and congestion [9]. One of the advantages of using 
cellular-network control message to estimate traffic information is that it requires little extra cost, 
since cellular networks have already been deployed and mobile phones on moving vehicles are used 
as probes. Compared with the conventional GPS-equipped probe vehicles, this approach does not 
require any additional on-vehicle devices, and there are sufficient probes since MSs are so 
pervasively used. However, the accuracy of the traffic speeds estimated by this technique is lower 
than that obtained from GPS-equipped probes. To estimate traffic speed using cellular network 
control messages, we need to locate a mobile phone at two different locations and divide the distance 
of the two locations by the time elapsed. The errors in locating a mobile phone would result in errors 
in estimating the traffic speed. However, a cellular network can’t pinpoint the exact location of a 
mobile phone from the control messages exchanged between the mobile phone and the network. On 
the other hand, the position errors in locating GPS-equipped probe vehicles are typically within tens 
4 
 
once in a segment. However, as the number of probes increases, there will be redundant reports sent 
to the TIC for the same segment from different probes. 
Van Buer et al. [13] proposed a notification system for reporting the traffic anomaly condition. 
In their system, each probe car has an on-board database to record its historical travel data, and it 
determines its speed anomaly during each trip. Each probe car needs to compare its historical 
database with its current speed, and determines whether the speed discrepancy is greater than a 
predefine threshold or not. If the discrepancy satisfies the predefine threshold, the probe car report its 
current speed to the TIC. When the TIC receives the probe car report, the TIC generates and 
broadcasts an alert to probe cars on the road segment. After receiving an alert from the TIC, each 
probe car has to compare its speed discrepancy with the alert, and report to the TIC if the speed 
discrepancy is greater than a predefine threshold. 
Kerner et al. [14] developed a FCD-based traffic information system using a travel time 
threshold to reduce the number of messages sent to the TIC. In this method, TIC periodically 
broadcasts the average travel time and a threshold for each road segment. By comparing the 
difference between the received travel time and the travel time record itself with the threshold, the 
PC decides whether or not to send a report to the TIC. The decision is based on checking if the travel 
time difference between the probe cars measured value and the TIC broadcasted value is greater than 
the TIC broadcasted threshold. If the condition is satisfied, the probe car sends the traffic information 
report to the TIC. Using threshold values does reduce the communication cost, but the accuracy of 
the generated traffic information may also decrease. 
Tanizaki and Wolfson [15] designed a randomized report policy to improve the threshold 
approach. They define server delay, which is a delay from a probe car sending reports to the TIC till 
the TIC broadcasts a new threshold. In this delay time interval, there may be a large amount of 
unanimous traffic information sent to the TIC if there are many probes traveling on the same road 
segment. To address this problem, when the threshold is satisfied, instead of always sending a report 
to the TIC, the probe sending the report with a probability p, which is determined by the TIC for each 
road segment to reduce the number of reports and achieve high accuracy. This reduces the volume of 
reports sent at a server delay interval, but may result in incomplete traffic data received by the TIC 
and less real-timeliness of the traffic information generated. 
To deal with the issues above, Ayala et al. [16] proposed a flow-based report policy for 
FCD-based traffic information systems. They did not use threshold values to determine whether to 
send the traveling data to the TIC or not. Every probe car transmits the traveling data to the TIC with 
the same probability. The transmission probability       , where k is the number of messages 
that the TIC needs to receive from probe cars in order to guarantee a given confidence in the average 
speed computation, and N is the estimated of the flow of vehicles through the road segment during 
the collection period. When a vehicle reaches the end of a road segment, it estimates k and N. The 
sample size k is computed by probes based on the central limit theorem, and N is estimated by 
Greenshields speed-flow model. After computing the k and N, the probe vehicle transmits the traffic 
record to the TIC with probability        . Compared with the threshold method, this method 
generates more accurate traffic information and lowers the communication cost. However, 
Greenshields model is suitable for highway road segments, but unsuitable for urban roads. 
 
III. The System Design 
Our TIS design is based on the reporting threshold model, but instead of broadcasting the 
average travel time of each road segment, we broadcast both the maximum and the minimum travel 
times, i.e., we monitor the probes that travel faster or slower than the average probes. In addition, we 
consider the current trend of the changing traffic condition in generating the maximum and the 
minimum travel times that we broadcast. We will show that this monitoring approach can reduce the 
6 
 
the maximum difference between the maximum travel time and the minimum travel time in a traffic 
light cycle would not be larger than 125s, and the minimum difference would not be smaller than 40s. 
We can use this feature to adjust the predicted maximum and minimum travel times. 
 
Fig. 2. The maximum, minimum and average travel time during traffic congestion. 
 
3.2  The System Operations 
The goal of our system design is to reduce the number of traffic reports that PCs send to the TIC, 
while maintaining the accuracy of the traffic information broadcasted by the TIC. To achieve the goal, 
PCs adopt a conditional report policy, i.e., PCs send reports only when certain conditions are met. In 
our system, the TIC would broadcast the predicted maximum travel time (denoted Tmax-p) and the 
predicted minimum travel time (denoted Tmin-p) of each road segment. When a PC travels through a 
road segment, the PC compares its travel time (denoted TPC) with the maximum travel time and the 
minimum travel time broadcasted by the TIC. The PC sends a report containing the traveled segment 
and the travel time to the TIC when TPC > (1-α)*Tmax-p or TPC < (1+β)*Tmin-p, where α and β are small 
percentages, i.e., only the PCs that travel faster or slower than the average are required to report. In 
this way, we can monitor the changes of the maximum and the minimum travel times that PCs take 
on a road segment. Compared with the conventional TISs where PCs report periodically or when 
passing a road segment, this conditional report policy would reduce the number of reports sent to the 
TIC when there are a large number of PCs on the road network.  
Second, to further reduce the number of reports sent by the PCs while maintaining the accuracy 
of the traffic information broadcasted by the TIC, the TIC generates Tmax-p and Tmax-p based on the 
trend of the changing traffic condition. For example, when the TIC detects that the traffic speed is 
slowing down; the TIC would predict larger Tmax-p and Tmin-p, so that it would keep receiving the 
reports of travel times from PCs that travel faster or slower than the average. Otherwise, the TIC may 
not receive the reports from PCs whose travel time is shorter than Tmin-p because the traffic is slowing 
down.  
Last, since the travel time prediction based on the trend of the changing traffic condition could 
be wrong, so that there is no report from PCs travel faster than (1+β)*Tmin-p or slower than  
(1-α)*Tmax-p. The TIC would detect this problem and modify the Tmax-p or Tmax-p accordingly. The 
modification process may repeat a couple of cycles before the respective reports of travel time are 
received by the TIC.  
3.3  The Algorithm of the Probe Car 
Our probe car is designed to be an event-triggered system. Table 1 lists the notations used in the 
probe car system. The events that a PC system needs to handle can be classified into three cases: (1) 
when a PC entering a pre-defined road segment, (2) when a PC receives Traffic Information (TI, i.e., 
Tmax-p and Tmin-p) broadcasted by the TIC, and (3) when a PC passes through a pre-defined road 
8 
 
When passing 
through a road 
segment
Compute Tpc
Is a report 
condition 
satisfied?
Report
Yes
No
End
 
Fig. 5. The Flow chart when a probe car passed through a road segment. 
In traveling, a probe car constantly checks whether it has passed a road segment’s entry point or 
not by using the probe car’s on-board segment database. If the probe car detects that has passed a 
segment’s entry point (see. Fig 3), it will record the current times as the segment entering time. As 
depicted in Fig. 4, when a PC receives the broadcasted TI, the PC would store and update the TI in 
its database; the TI is composed of Tmax_p, Tmin_p, α, and β. When a PC passes through a road segment 
(see Fig. 5), the PC would first compute the segment travel time (TPC) by using the current time 
minus the entering time. Then, the PC compares TPC with the Tmax_p and Tmin_p to check if TPC > 
(1-α)*Tmax-p, or TPC < (1+β) Tmin-p. If one of the conditions is satisfied, then the PC report TPC as Tmax 
or Tmin to the TIC. Otherwise, the PC does nothing. 
3.4  The Algorithm of the Traffic Information Center 
Based on the reports received in each traffic light cycle, the TIC would generates the predicted 
Tmax_p and Tmin_p.,The TIC is also designed to be an event-triggered system. Table 2 lists the notations 
used in our TIC system. The events that the TIC system needs to handle are: (1) when receiving Tmax 
(Tmin) report, and (2) when a traffic light cycle ends. The Figs. 7-8 describe the flow chart of the two 
events in our TIC system. 
Table 2. Notations used in the TIC system. 
Notation Definition 
Tmax The report value of the maximum travel time 
Tmin The report value of the minimum travel time 
adoption_flag A flag indicating whether the report is adopted by the TIC or not 
significant_change 
A flag indicating that the report has a significant difference with the 
prediction value 
steadyArg A threshold for determining the trend is steady or not (= 0.05) 
 A parameter for calculating the prediction value, (= 1/3) 
AdjustArg A parameter for modifying the prediction value, (= 0.04) 
Δ The suitable range for the difference of Tmax_p and Tmin_p, (= 40 - 125s) 
10 
 
Broadcast the maximum Tmax_p and the minimum Tmin_p 
from prediction table for each road segment
End
When a Traffic 
Light Cycle Ends
Is there are any Tmax_p and 
Tmin_p generated in this 
cycle for each segment? Yes
Are reports 
received in this 
cycle?
No
Tmax_p (Tmin_p) = the 
maximum (minimum) of 
non-adopted Tmax (Tmin) in 
this cycle
Adjust the previous  
Tmax_p (Tmin_p) 
No
Yes
Adjust the Tmax_p (Tmin_p) so that 
difference between within Δ
 
Fig. 8. The flow chart of the TIC when a Traffic Light Cycle ends. 
Fig. 7 describes the flow chart when the TIC receives a Tmax (Tmin) report. When the TIC 
receives a Tmax (Tmin) report, it first checks the report information (i.e. segment ID, Tmax or Tmin) and 
then stores the report in the corresponding report table. In our TIC system, each road segment has its 
own report table for storing Tmax and Tmin reported by PCs. Then, the TIC checks if the Tmax (Tmin) is 
of significant change of 15 percent by comparing with the broadcast value. If so, The TIC sets a flag 
called significant_change true, and checks if there is another report of significant change in the 
previous 120 seconds. If not, the TIC would not adopt the report and sets the report’s adoption_flag 
false. Otherwise, it goes on to determine trend procedure. In this step, the TIC rejects an isolated 
report of significant change. 
 To determine the changing trend of traffic condition, the TIC computes four factors based on the 
reports of each traffic light cycle as follows, 
M_max = The maximum of Tmax 
M_avg = The average of Tmax            (1) 
m_min = The minimum of Tmin 
m_avg = The average of Tmin 
12 
 
IV.  Evaluation and Analysis 
4.1  Simulation Environment 
We use VISSIM [17], a traffic model simulator, to evaluate our TIC design. Fig. 9 depicts a 
simulated 6.8-km long urban main road, which is composed of 16 intersections with 16 branch roads. 
The 16 intersections evenly divide the main road into 17 small segments, each of which is 400 
meters long. We collect traffic information for each 1.6-km long road segment, which is composed of 
4 small segments, as the brown line (Segment 1) and the green line (Segment 2) depicted in Fig. 9. 
The vehicle flow will be input from the left side of the main road, and every branch also inputs 
vehicle flow into the main road. Starting from the entry of the main road, at every four branches, 
60% of the vehicles on the outer lane of the main road make right turns to the branch. Other vehicles 
remain traveling on the main road. 
 
 
Fig. 9. A VISSIM simulator example. 
 We intended to simulate the traffic condition that reflects the entire period of traffic congestion. 
The simulated traffic flow changes from a smooth flow to a maximum flow and finally back to 
smooth. In the simulation, the input flow can be divided into 4 intervals: (1) a smooth flow for 1 hour, 
(2) increasing the flow for 30 minutes with a flow rise every 5 minutes, (3) decreasing the flow for 
30 minutes with a flow decline every 5 minutes, (4) a smooth flow for 1 hour. We have simulated 3 
flow settings: light, moderate and heavy traffic flows. Table 4 shows the simulation parameters used 
in our simulation, and Table 5 shows the traffic flow for each setting. 
Table 4. Parameters used in the simulation. 
Total road length 6.8 km 
Number of lanes 3 
Number of segments 2 
Vehicle composition 10% probe cars, 88% regular cars, 2% vans 
Desired speed 
Car: 40 - 60 kph (uniformly distributed) 
Van: 40 - 45 kph (uniformly distributed) 
Simulation time 3 hr 
Traffic light cycle (120 
seconds) 
Green Yellow Red 
Main road 65 s 5 s 50 s 
Branch 45 s 5 s 70 s 
 
14 
 
 
 
Fig. 10. The travel times, Tmax_p and Tmin_p at the light traffic flow.  
For the moderate traffic flow (see Fig. 11), Tmax_p catches the change of the maximum travel 
time. We can observe that in the congestion worsening period (during simulation time 5000 to 7000 
sec.), there is no Tmin report, but Tmin_p is properly adjusted by the Tmax reports. In contrast, during the 
congestion relieving period, there is no Tmax report, but Tmax_p is properly adjusted by the Tmin reports. 
For the heavy traffic flow (see Fig. 12), the results are similar to those of the moderate traffic flow 
setting. 
16 
 
 
 
Fig. 12. The travel times, Tmax_p and Tmin_p at the heavy traffic flow. 
Second, we evaluate the accuracy of the predicted Tmax_p and Tmin_p in our design. A predicted 
Tmax_p (Tmin_p) is compared with the maximum (minimum) travel time of all vehicles passing the 
segment after the predicted Tmax_p (Tmin_p) is broadcasted and before the next predicted Tmax_p (Tmin_p) 
is broadcasted. The prediction error of Tmax_p (Tmin_p) is defined to be the absolute error between the 
predicted Tmax_p (Tmin_p) and the maximum (minimum) travel time of all vehicles.  
For all vehicles’ experience, we count the number of vehicles that travel longer than the latest 
broadcasted Tmax_p and the number of vehicles that travel sooner than the latest broadcasted Tmin_p. In 
addition, we compute the Mean Absolute Error (MAE) between each vehicle’s travel time and the 
mean of the latest broadcasted Tmax_p and Tmin_p. For each flow setting; we simulate with 10 different 
random seeds and average the 10 simulation results. 
Tables 6-8 list the accuracy of the TIC’s predictions for each traffic flow setting. The simulation 
18 
 
Table 8. Prediction accuracy for flow setting 3 (heavy). 
Prediction Error (error percentage) 
 Tmax_p Tmin_p 
Segment 1 33.1 sec. (8.5%) 31.8 sec. (10.3%) 
Segment 2 34.6 sec. (9.5%) 30.8 sec. (10.8%) 
All Vehicles’ Experience 
 
The number of  
vehicles > Tmax_p 
The number of  
vehicles  < Tmin_p 
Travel time error 
Segment 1 1302 (23.0%) 678 (11.9%) 39.3 sec. (12.1%) 
Segment 2 1295 (21.3%) 631 (10.6%) 34.4 sec. (11.1%) 
 
Table 9. Communication overhead for flow setting 1 (light). 
Communication Overhead 
The number of 
PCs 
The number of 
Tmax reports 
The number of 
Tmin reports 
The percentage of 
reports reduced 
The number of 
BMs 
990.3 205.2 73.4 72% 180 
 
Table 10. Communication overhead for flow setting 2 (moderate). 
Communication Overhead 
The number of 
PCs 
The number of 
Tmax reports 
The number of 
Tmin reports 
The percentage of 
reports reduced 
The number of 
BMs 
1041.6 195.7 110.3 71% 180 
 
Table 11. Communication overhead for flow setting 3 (heavy). 
Communication Overhead 
The number of 
PCs 
The number of 
Tmax reports 
The number of 
Tmin reports 
The percentage of 
reports reduced 
The number of 
BMs 
1021.9 213.5 125.6 67% 180 
 
Last, we investigate the effects of the penetration rate of the probes. We simulate the three flow 
settings with various penetration rates of probes equals, 2.5%, 5%, 10%, 20% and 40%. We compare 
the prediction error, the travel time error, the number of reports and the percentage of reports reduced. 
The results are depicted in Figs. 13-16. 
Figs 13 and 14 indicate that when the penetration rate of probes increases, both the prediction 
error and the travel time error decrease slightly. We also simulate two settings of α and β, α = 0, β = 0 
and α = 0.04, β = 0.04. The results in Fig. 13 and 14 indicate that for the two settings of α and β, the 
prediction error and the travel time error are about the same. Fig. 15 shows that as the penetration 
rate of probes increases, the number of reports increases significantly. In addition, the rising slop of 
the red line (α = 0.04, β = 0.04) is much bigger than the blue line (α = 0, β = 0). The results in Fig. 16 
indicate that as the penetration rate of probes increases, the percentage of the reduced reports 
increases, and the reduced reports of blue line (α = 0, β = 0) is much larger than that of the red line (α 
= 0.04, β = 0.04). 
20 
 
 
Fig. 16. The reports reduced for different penetration rates of probes. 
V. Conclusions 
In this report, we propose a FCD-based traffic notification system that addresses the issue of 
reducing communication requirements. The system consists of a centralized traffic information 
center (TIC) and a group of probe cars (PCs). The PCs can be general vehicles with people on-board 
carrying smart phones equipped with Global Position System (GPS) receiver and wireless 
communication ability, and installed with our traffic information reporting application. In our system, 
the TIC generates and broadcasts the predicted maximum and minimum travel time of a road 
segment to PCs periodically. In the conventional FCD-based TIS, the PCs send reports to the TIC 
periodically or when a road segment is traveled. In our system, only PCs that travel near the 
maximum or the minimum travel times are required to send reports. We have performed computer 
simulations to evaluate our design. The simulation results indicate that our approach reduced the 
number of reports by 70% in average, compared with the conventional segment-based report policy. 
The prediction error of the maximum and minimum travel time on a road segment of 1.6 km is 10% 
in average. In addition, when using the mean of the maximum and the minimum travel times as the 
average travel time, the estimation error of the average travel time compared with the all vehicles’ 
average is 12.3%. 
In our system, the TIC needs to broadcast the traffic information periodically to the PCs. 
However, the broadcast function is not yet well supported by the public wireless networks, such as 
the UMTS, or by the vehicular communication networks, such as WAVE. Without the broadcast 
function, real-time traffic information cannot be efficiently delivered to all the PCs on the road 
network, new approaches for real-time traffic dissipation to PCs need to be studied. 
 
References 
[1] L. Figueiredo, I. Jesus, J. Machado, J. Ferreira, and J. Santos, “Toward the development of 
intelligent transportation systems,” in Proceedings of the 4th IEEE Intelligent Transportation 
Systems Conference, Oakland, CA, 2001, pp. 1207-1212. 
[2] TomTom, http://www.tomtom.com/ 
[3] IntelliOne, http://www.intellione.com/ 
[4] ITIS Holdings plc, http://www.itisholdings.com/ 
[5] Mediamobile, http://www.mediamobile.com/ 
[6] P. T. Martin, Y. Feng, and X. Wang, “Detector technology evaluation,” Department of Civil 
Environmental Engineering, University of Utah-Traffic Lab, Salt Lake City, UT, 2003. 
[7] D. Middleton and R. Parker, “Vehicle Detector Evaluation,” Publication FHWA/TX-03 /2119-1. 
Texas Transportation Institute, Texas Department of Transportation, FHWA, 2002. 
0% 
50% 
100% 
2.50% 5% 10% 20% 40% 
PC percentage 
Reports reduced 
α, β = 0 
α, β = 0.04 
 1 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：101年 10月 25日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
 AINA-2012國際會議於 101年 3月 26-29日在福岡理工大學舉辦。除了 AINA主會
議之外，有多個並行 Workshops。AINA安排三個平行 sessions，加上其他並行
workshops，同時有 8個 sessions進行。會議安排三個 Keynote speech: Choichi 
Noguchi教授探討日本福島震災後，通訊網路系統受到嚴重損害的狀況，及其後復原
過程中學到的經驗，做為日後設計高可靠度資訊與通訊系統設計的規範。David 
Taniar教授介紹在日益龐大的資料庫系統中，如何利用網格計算環境，提昇平行處
計畫編號 NSC 100-2221-E-009-108 
計畫名稱 利用智慧型手機以詢問回覆機制收集即時交通路況之設計與
評估 
出國人員
姓名 
張明峰 
服務機構
及職稱 
交通大學 資訊工程系 教授 
會議時間 
101年 3月 26日
至 
101年 3月 29日 
會議地點 
Fukuoka Institute of Technology 
Fukuoka, Japan 
會議名稱 
(中文) 
(英文)The 26th IEEE International Conference on Advanced Information 
Networking and Applications 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 
(英文) Temporary Call-back Telephone Number Service 
附件四 
 3 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
四、建議 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. AINA 2012 議程表. 
2. AINA 2012 論文集光碟. 
3. WAINA 2012 論文集光碟. 
 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：張明峰 計畫編號：100-2221-E-009-108- 
計畫名稱：利用智慧型手機以詢問回覆機制收集即時交通路況之設計與評估 
量化 
成果項目 
實際已達
成數（被接
受或已發
表） 
預期總達成
數(含實際
已達成數)
本計畫
實際貢
獻百分
比 
單位
備註（質化說明：如數個
計畫共同成果、成果列
為 該 期 刊 之 封 面 故
事...等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告 /技術報
告 2 2 100% 
侯羽豪,碩士論文,＇＇The 
Design of a Traffic 
Information System for 
Reducing Reports from 
GPS-equipped Probes.＇＇
 
魏睦倫,碩士論文,＇＇The 
Design of Traffic Report 
System for Highway 
Congestions with 
GPS-equipped Probe 
Cars.＇＇ 
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 1 1 50% 
中華民國專利申請, ＇＇報
告行車時間之交通通告系
統＇＇ 專利 
已獲得件數 0 0 100% 
件 
 
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次
 
期刊論文 0 1 0% 投稿中 
研究報告 /技術報
告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 1 1 50% 
US patent 
application, ＇＇Traffic 
Notification System for 
Reporting the Travel 
Time.＇＇ 
國外 
專利 
已獲得件數 0 0 100% 
件 
 
