 
2
of semirigid chains. Phase transformation and molecular packing in crystalline PFO have been 
examined by diffraction techniques with assistance from molecular simulation.4-6 In spite of 
different suggestions on side-chain conformation, it is generally agreed that PFO is nematic above 
its melting temperature (Tm) of ca. 160 oC, below which PFO crystallizes readily into an 
orthorhombic structure of large unit cell size (a = 2.56 nm, b = 2.34 nm, c = 3.32 nm, 8 chains), 
where the slightly non-collinear repeating units are arranged in approximately 21-helical fashion 
with moderate deviations of aromatic rings from coplanarity.4-6  
At a greater scale, earlier near-field scanning optical microscopic studies by Teetsov and 
Vanden Bout7,8 on film morphology of PFO and its close homologues indicated formation of 
ribbon-like entities after heat treatment at their respective Tm. These ribbons were ca. 20 ~ 70 nm 
wide, in which PFO backbones lay in-plane and transverse to the ribbon axis. Our own electron 
microscopic observations5 indicated a broad range of morphological features from strings of 
nanobeads to flat-on and edge-on lamellar crystals upon melt crystallization of PFO films. Here we 
extend our earlier studies of melt crystallized PFO single crystals to morphological development in 
the micrometer scale, i.e., the formation of axialites in PFO films. We show that melt-crystallization 
of PFO generally results in axialites with the longitudinal axis determined by preferred growth 
along the crystallographic b-axis. The degree of matching between crystallographic orientation and 
molecular orientation in the nematic melt at the growth front exerts strong effects on the apparent 
growth rate. With decreasing film thickness, axialitic growth eventually becomes inhibited such that 
flat-on single crystals may develop. All these observations are explained in terms of the strong 
preference for PFO crystal growth along the b-axis.  
 
Experimental Section 
The PFO sample used here was purchased from American Dye Source, Quebec, Canada (cat. 
no. ADS129BE). The weight-average molecular mass (Mw) was 65 kDa and polydispersity index 
PDI ) 2.6 as determined via GPC using polystyrene standards. Using a correction factor of 0.37,9 the 
 
4
Results 
Axialitic growth. Given in Figure 1 are morphological features of PFO films after short-term 
(i.e., 6 min) melt-crystallization at 145 oC and subsequent quenching in liquid nitrogen. From PLM 
micrographs (Figure 1a,b), elongated (with optically negative birefringence) spherulite-like entities 
approximately 20 µm in size may be identified from the nematic background. As further revealed 
by secondary electron images (SEI, Figure 1c,d), these asymmetrically developed “spherulites” turn 
out to be composed of crystalline “fibrils” (or more precisely, slender edge-on crystalline lamellae) 
with apparent preference for growth in the axial direction. These are hence more appropriately 
referred to as axialites hereafter. One may note from Figure 1d that the retarded transverse growth is 
accompanied by protuberance due to gradual tilting and edgewise growth of the sheath lamellae. In 
the lower left corner of Figure 1e, baby-axialites (ca. 2 µm in size, which apparently nucleated later 
in time than the well developed axialite at the center of view) may be identified. Under higher 
magnification (Figure 1f), the leaf-like baby-axialites already exhibit preferred growth along the 
central podium as well as protuberances of sheath lamellae due to limited degree of branching. 
Hence these characteristics of axialitic growth may be traced back to the very infant stage. It is then 
interesting to note that, during this stage of axialitic development, crystalline lamellae are generally 
oriented with the c-axis lying in-plane (and transverse to the “fibrillar” axis) where the a-axis along 
the film normal. This is demonstrated by a representative bright-field image (Figure 1g) and the 
corresponding selected area electron diffraction pattern (Figure 1h, taken from the encircled central 
region in Figure 1g).  
Effects of shear orientation. To elucidate further the preference for in-plane backbone 
orientation with a-axis pointing toward film normal in PFO axialites, shear-oriented specimens 
were examined. As shown in Figure 2a,b, these shear oriented specimens are characterized by a 
background of extended nematic domains (each about 10 µm in width) running along the shear 
direction. As judged from the birefringence color, backbone axes are not exactly aligned in the shear 
direction but are alternatively tilted from the shear direction in neighboring domains. It is then 
 
6
boundary, nucleation density (per plan-view area) decreases, leaving coarse tree-like axialitic 
texture (Figure 4c,d). In the interstitial region between the “tree-branches,” flat-on single crystals 
are allowed to develop (Figure 4e,f) in the absence of competition from axialitic nucleation. As we 
have shown previously, these flat-on single crystals of PFO give clear (00l) zone pattern, i.e., PFO 
backbones (and the crystallographic c-axis) lie along film normal. In addition, these single crystals 
are slender, sword-like in shape with clear faceting of {100} and {110} planes, in agreement with 
previous TEM observations on PFO single crystals.5 In other words, growth along the 
crystallographic b-axis is preferred, consistent with the asymmetric growth habit in the axialites. 
Figure 4g shows the magnified view of a single crystal of incomplete faceting. Note the grainy 
features in the scale of ca. 10 nm.  
 
Discussion 
Preferred growth along crystallographic b-axis. From our observations above, it may be 
concluded that one of the key characteristics in the melt crystallization of PFO is the preferred 
growth (whether in single crystals or in axialites) along the crystallographic b-axis. Origin of this 
growth habit is not yet clear but the previously proposed model5 of molecular packing may provide 
some hints. In the model, PFO backbone are stretched along the c-axis whereas alkyl side chains are 
fully extended transverse to the backbone; each pair of the alkyl side chains from a given monomer 
unit embraces a neighboring PFO backbone. It turns out that this paired embracement propagates 
along the a-axis: assuming this embracing is kinetically slow to achieve, preferred growth along the 
b-axis would be a natural consequence.  
Preferred crystal orientation. On the premise of preferred growth along b-axis, two possible 
crystal orientations bear advantage in the competition for crystal growth in films. In one case, the 
backbones (and the c-axis) lie in-plane: with preferred in-plane crystal growth along the b-axis, the 
a-axis is automatically oriented towards film normal. This agrees with what we have basically 
observed in the axialitic development. The other possibility is that the backbones lie along film 
 
8
include contributions from not only shear-enhanced nucleation as one would generally expect but 
also the highly selective growth along the b-axis on the basis of the following arguments. As we 
have noted earlier, within the present range of film thickness, mechanical shear resulted in slender 
arrays of alternatively tilted (from the shear direction) nematic domains that are ca 10 µm in width. 
Axialitic growth of a quadrant is encouraged if backbone orientation of the nematic matches that in 
this particular quadrant and vice versa (Figure 2c). The preferred growth within a particular nematic 
domain eventually leads to the growth front to reach a neighboring domain, which retards axialitic 
growth as molecular orientation therein deviates significantly from the preferred crystal growth 
direction. Hence, alternative orientations in arrays of nematic domains eventually serve to constrain 
axialitic development to ca. 20 µm (within the present range of observation time), as may be 
observed in Figure 2b. The temporarily halted growth of existing axialites allows for the nucleation 
and (similarly constrained) growth of younger axialites, which would contribute at least partly to 
the apparently increased plan-view density of axialites.  
General comments on morphology of conjugated polymers.  In view of the backbone 
rigidity, conjugated polymers are believed to crystallize in a manner quite different from traditional 
polymers of flexible backbones. Intuitively, the fringed-micelle picture appears appropriate and the 
crystals are likely to be limited in size; this is indeed born out in early morphological studies of 
conjugated polymers where structural investigation has therefore been focused to the molecular 
level within a unit cell.16 Nevertheless, recent observations on regioregular poly(3-n-alkyl-2,5- 
thiophene)s17,18 and poly(2,5-di-n-alkyl-1,4-phenylenevinylene)s19,20 indicated formation of rod- or 
string-like entities in nanometer scale, in which the conjugated backbones lie in-plane and 
orthogonal to the long axis. The present case of PFO serves as a first example for further 
morphological development at a greater length scale that extends the hierarchy of supramolecular 
aggregation to the next level. The basic mechanism behind this high-level molecular aggregation 
remains unclear; it is apparent that there are more to add to the conventional fringed-micelle picture 
to allow for supramolecular aggregation at this length scale. One possible model could be the 
 
10
(8) Teetsov, J.; Vanden Bout, D. A. Langmuir 2002, 18, 897. 
(9) Grell, M.; Bradley, D. D. C.; Long; X.; Chamberlain, T.; Inbasekaran, M.; Woo, E. P.; 
Soliman, M. Acta Polym. 1998, 49, 439.  
(10) Lotz, B.; Lovinger, A. J.; Cais, R. E. Macromolecules 1988, 21, 2375.  
(11) Bu, Z.; Yoon, Y.; Ho, R. M.; Zhou, W.; Jangchud, I.; Ebby, R. K.; Cheng, S. Z. D.; Hsieh, E. 
T.; Johnson, T. W.; Geerts, R. G.; Palackal, S. J.; Hawley, G. R.; Welch, M. B. 
Macromolecules 1996, 29, 6575.  
(12) Ho, R. M.; Lin, C. P.; Hsieh, P. Y.; Chung, T. M.; Tsai, H. Y. Macromolecules 2001, 34, 6727.  
(13) Wunderlich, B. Macromolecular Physics, Vol. 2; Academic: New York, 1976.  
(14) Rieger, J.; Mansfield, M. L. Macromolecules 1989, 23, 8310. 
(15) Zhu, L.; Calhoun, B. H.; Ge, Q.; Quirk, R. P.; Cheng, S. Z. D.; Thomas, E. L.; Hsiao, B. S.; 
Yeh, F.; Liu, L.; Lotz, B. Macromolecules 2001, 34, 1244.  
(16) For a recent review, see Winoukur, M. J.; Chunwachirasiri, W. J. Polym. Sci., Polym. Phys. 
2003, 41, 2630.  
(17) Kim, D. H.; Park, Y. D.; Jang, Y; Yang, H.; Kim, Y. H.; Han, J. I.; Moon, D. G.; Park, S.; 
Chang, T.; Chang, C.; Joo, M.; Ryu, C. Y.; Cho, K. Adv. Funct. Mater. 2005, 15, 77.  
(18) Kline, R. J.; McGehee, M. D.; Kadnikova, E. N.; Liu, J.; Fréchet, J. M. J.; Toney, M. F. 
Macromolecules 2005, 38, 3312.  
(19) Chen, S. H.; A. C. Su, A. C.; Han, S. R.; Chen, S. A.; Lee, Y. Z. Macromolecules 2004, 37, 
181.  
(20) Chen, S. H.; Su, C. H.; Su, A. C.; Chen, S. A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108, 8855.   
(21) Métois, J. J.; Gauch, M.; Masson, A.; Kern, R. Surf. Sci. 1972, 30, 43.  
(22) Shen, P; Fahn, Y. Y.; Su, A. C. Nano Lett. 2001, 1, 299.  
 
12
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
Figure 1. Axialitic morphology of PFO films melt-crystallized for 6 min at 145 oC, followed by 
quenching in liquid nitrogen: (a,b) PLM micrographs without or with gypsum plate inserted, (c-f) 
SEI at several locations under different magnifications, (g) a representative BFI and (h) the 
corresponding SAED pattern. The axialites first appear as leaf-like entities (f); which grows and 
splay mainly in the axial direction (d) and become less anisotropic with transversely nucleated 
branches (c). Representative BFI image (g) and corresponding SAED pattern (h, taken from the 
axialite at the central view, slightly rotated to align b*-axis with the meridian) indicate that 
molecular chains run transverse to the long axis of fibrillar features that correspond to slender 
edge-on crystalline lamellae. Note the presence of a junior-axialite in the upper right corner of (g).  
 
14
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
Figure 3. PLM micrographs (a) without or (b) with gypsum plated inserted, showing space-filled 
axialites in PFO films melt crystallized for 1h at 145 oC, followed by quenching in liquid nitrogen. 
SEI in (c) shows that space-filling is achieved by fibrils nucleated and grew within the “eye” 
regions in the later stage of melt crystallization. These space-filling fibrils run nearly perpendicular 
to the axialitic fibrils. Representative BFIs (d,f) and corresponding SAEDs (e,g) indicate preference 
persists for c-axis to lie in-plane, but different orientations of a- and b-axes are now identifiable.  
