 英文摘要 
An enhancement of probability packet marking (PPM) used to trace back the 
denial-of-service attacker is proposed. Through sending probing packets, the proposed 
scheme is used to recover missing attacking paths, resulting from successive non-PPM 
routers, which do not support PPM scheme along the attack path. Furthermore, according 
to the proposed scheme, the probing packet with IP record routing or Loose Source 
Routing can detect consecutive non-PPM routers and help to recover lost paths because of 
non-PPM routers in a row. Especially, this scheme with the loose source routing algorithm 
can record all traveled routers' IP addresses into probing packet's IP header. 
 
 
中文摘要 
一個功能增強的機率式封包標記法(PPM)於本研究中被提出，經由追蹤攻擊來源，藉
以對抗網路阻斷服務攻擊。因為在原本的 PPM 機制中，如果攻擊路徑中存在不支援
PPM 機制的路由器，則這些路由器將會導致某些攻擊路徑資訊遺失，史的受害者端
建構出不正確的資訊。而在本研究的成果中，經由發送探測封包(probing packets)，本
機制可以恢復攻擊路徑中所有不支援或不安裝本機制的路由器的相關資訊，以協助受
害者可以建構出更完整及更精確的攻擊路徑。本研究提出的方法，可以透過配合 IP 
record routing 或 Loose Source Routing 能力的探測封包，而具有偵測出連續不支援
PPM 機制的路由器並協助恢復遺失的資訊。尤以配合 Loose Source Routing 能力的探
測封包可以紀錄該封包所能經過的所有路由器的 IP 位址為最佳的選擇。 
 
 
Keyword:  Network Security, DoS Attack, IP traceback, PPM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(本研究成果將於 2006 年 12 月份發表於 
International Symposium on Intelligent Signal Processing and Communication Systems) 
 
 2
the attack path does not support PPM, this PPM mechanism 
may reconstruct unreliable paths. For example, in Fig.3, if R2, 
R5, R6, and R7 are PPM-capable routers, the reconstructed path 
is R2-R5-R6-R7. The edge information, i.e. (R1, R2), (R2, R3), 
(R3, R4), and (R4, R5), will be apparently lost, and worst of all, 
one also can’t precisely point out the leaf router R1, which 
may be an attacker’s compromised router. 
In this paper, an improved PPM scheme for IP traceback to 
reconstruct a more precise attack path in an incomplete PPM 
deployment environment is proposed. This proposed scheme 
may also be used with a view to reducing the deployment 
overhead without requiring the participation of all routers 
along the attack path. 
II. PPM WITH PROBING PACKETS (PPMWP)  
PPM is a method for solving DoS/DDoS attacks. Although 
PPM can still work under the incomplete deployment 
environment, the victim may, however, reconstruct unreliable 
attacking paths and fail to trace back attackers if there are 
routers along the attacking paths that do not support PPM 
mechanism. The victim receives the edge information from 
PPM routers, and doesn’t receive the information from non-
PPM routers. Therefore, the enhancement of PPM, called the 
PPM with Probing packets (PPMwP), is proposed to solve the 
problem mentioned above.  
 
A. Detecting non-PPM routers 
The most basic thinking for detecting non-PPM routers and 
recovering lost edge information can be illustrated as Fig.4. 
Router C receives some edge information P from router A, and 
the edge information is: P.start=A P.end=0, and P.hop=0. 
Then, router C can find router A is not a neighbor in the C’s 
routing table, according to the information P.start=A. Thus, 
router C can send two packets at one time to help reveal the 
non-PPM router B. 
For any discontinuous individual non-PPM router, the idea 
mentioned above works well, however, recovering more lost 
edge information resulting from successive non-PPM routers 
is more important. Therefore, we design PPMwP for detecting 
more than one non-PPM router in advance. Then PPMwP can 
recover the lost information. 
A feasible method is to utilize an ICMP echo request packet 
with IP Record Route Option (RR) as a probing packet. An 
ICMP echo request with RR option, namely Ping request, tells 
each router along the path to add its own IP address to the 
option data.  Once the PPMwP mechanism starts or the routing 
table is periodically updated, a PPMwP router will send a 
probing packet to help other PPMwP routers detect whether 
previous routers support PPMwP or not. The probing packet 
uses the same 16-bit ID field in the IP header as PPM, and the 
format of the probing packet for detecting at most consecutive 
four non-PPMwP routers is designed as Fig.5. 
Each ID field in a probing packet is divided into three parts: 
IP fragment, index, and router bits. Each 8-bit IP fragment 
contains one of four 8-bit IP address subsets, using the 2-bit 
index to distinguish between each other. If fragments are 
completely collected, the IP address of the previous 
neighboring PPMwP router can be reconstructed.  An example 
is shown as Fig.6. 
The 6-bit router-bits field is used to detect whether routers 
support PPMwP through manipulating TTL field with a 
modulo-6 operation. The 6-bit router-bits field can also help 
the receiving PPMwP router reassemble four 8-bit IP address 
subsets, since the content of router-bits field will be the same 
along the fixed attack path. Because the size of router-bits 
Fig.3. A simplified attack path. 
Fig.4. Recovering from one non-PPM router 
Fig.7. Detecting non-PPMwP routers 
Fig.6. Reconstructing the previous PPMwP router’s IP address. 
 
Fig.5. The format of a probing packet with RR. 
