行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■ 成 果 報 告   □期中進度報告 
 
考慮可替代性損耗商品的批量問題之建模與最佳化 
 
計畫類別：■ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E－224－010－ 
執行期間：96 年 08 月 01 日至  97 年 07 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：蘇純繒 教授 
計畫參與人員：陳桂嫻、丁秋瑤 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年■二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：國立雲林科技大學工業工程與管理學系 
 
 
中   華   民   國  九十七   年   十   月   六   日 
 
 2
與製造，其功能不僅能滿足使用者的基本需
求，這些具有同樣使用功能的商品，更不斷
的充斥在市場上互相競爭，也讓消費者選購
商品時有更多樣化的選擇，上述的該類商品
一般稱之為替代性商品。替代性商品的特性
在於，不同品牌或型號的商品皆可提供消費
者達成同樣的使用目的，所以當某產商品供
應發生缺貨時，消費者可選擇另一種商品來
代替原來的商品，例如不同等級的電腦中央
處理器，不同口味的麵包。 
而一般工廠所面臨的生產存貨問題，所
要探討的是生產進度安排及生產批量決策，
在過去文獻中，探討退化性商品生產存貨模
型，皆以單一商品為考量。本研究考慮商品
具有退化及可替代的特性，並在允許缺貨候
補的情況下，站在商品供應鏈裡上游製造商
的立場，探討如何規劃每個商品適當的生產
進度，以達到總利潤最大化。因此本研究主
要目的為探討在缺貨情況發生時，可替代商
品允許部分欠撥的情形下，另一部分流失的
需求量如何被其他的商品吸收及取代。 
 
三、 文獻探討 
本節歸類過去相關存貨模式探討文獻之
特色，依文獻研究之主軸歸類出四大類型，
分別為退化性商品、缺貨候補、經濟生產批
量模型及替代性商品。 
 
3.1 退化性商品 
在沒有外在需求下，退化性商品於儲存
時，商品有效存貨數會隨著時間增加而成某
個特定函數遞減，這種現象於現實生活中相
當普遍，例如生鮮蔬菜、流行性商品...等。
過去研究 Ghare and Schrader(1963)假設商品
退化率服從指數分配下，首次推導出具有固
定退化率的經濟訂購量(EOQ)模式。Covert 
and Philip(1973)在放寬固定退化率下考慮商
品的退化服從兩參數 Weibull 分配之存貨模
式。 Philip(1974)建立退化率服從三參數
Weibull 分配的存貨模型，並分別探討商品於
開始接收時即損耗及儲存一段時間才退化兩
種情況對於廠商訂購策略的影響。Shah(1977)
推廣 Philip(1974)的模式，並加入允許商品缺
貨且完全欠撥的假設條件。Wee(1993)將允許
缺貨且完全欠撥的條件修改為部分欠撥。由
以上文獻可歸納出退化形式可分為三大類：
假設退化服從指數分配、兩參數 Weibull 分配
以及三參數 Weibull 分配。 
此外，陸續有學者將缺貨候補的情況列
入 EOQ 模型中一起探討，其退化形式皆服從
指數分配。一般將退化性的其他商品特性結
合討論時，普遍假設商品退化服從指數分
配，可讓延伸的主題在求解環境上較為單
純，故本研究亦考慮商品退化方式上，亦考
慮退化服從指數分配。 
 
3.2 缺貨候補 
當儲存量耗盡後，接下來的需求皆無法
馬上被滿足，必須等到下次進貨之後才能將
商品撥給顧客，這種允許延後交貨的模式，
一般稱之為缺貨候補。Park(1982)首先考慮允
許缺貨的存貨模型，假設缺貨期間內欠撥率
為一固定比率。Wee(1995)將缺貨期間的欠撥
率假設為介於 0 和 1 之間的固定常數。
Padmanabhan and Vrat(1995)放寬欠撥率為固
定常數的假設，提出缺貨期間欠撥率為等候
欠撥數量的線性函數之存貨模式。Chang and 
Dye(1999)考慮欠撥率與等候下次補貨的時
間長度成反比的存貨模型。以上缺貨候補的
方式分為完全欠撥及部分欠撥兩種，完全欠
撥是指發生缺貨情況時，未來仍須候補的數
量與目前的需求量相同；而部分欠撥是指未
來需候補的數量僅佔部分需求量，因為部份
顧客在缺貨狀態下流失。在部分欠撥的情況
下，過去學者提出四種欠撥率計算方式，第
一種考慮欠撥率為固定常數，第二種是考慮
欠撥率為等候欠撥數量的線性函數，第三種
是考慮欠撥率與等候下次補貨的時間長度成
反比。第四種是考慮欠撥率為等候補貨時間
的負指數函數。本研究所考慮的缺貨候補方
式為部分欠撥，而欠撥率為一固定常數。 
 
3.3 經濟生產批量模型 
經濟生產批量模型(EPLS)在退化性商品
及缺貨候補相關領域的研究，Misra(1975)首
先探討生產率與需求率為固定常數且缺貨不
 4
存在著競爭或合作的關係，通常此類問題需
以競賽理論分析較佳的決策；再者，從退化
方式的觀點亦可將替代性商品文獻分為兩大
類，第一類為單期退化方式，即商品壽命僅
維持一期，如報僮問題。第二類是商品壽命
服從某特定分配，如指數分配。最後，從需
求形式的觀點可將亦可將替代性商品文獻分
為兩大類，第一類為確定性需求，即商品的
需求被假設為固定常數。第一類為不確定性
需求，即假設商品的需求為隨機變數，服從
某率密度函數。以上述的分類觀點而言，本
研究所探討的替代性商品研究是考慮單一決
策者、商品壽命服從某特定分配、確定性需
求下的 EPLS 模型。 
 
四、 模型建構 
本研究探討兩商品在各自需求皆穩定之
下的生產存貨模式，除了考慮商品於儲存時
具有退化性之外，當發生缺貨時，無法滿足
的需求量可允許部分欠撥，而缺貨量中其他
未列入缺貨候補的部分，某個比例上將會由
另一項商品進行取代。因此，兩商品之間的
需求互補關係只發生在其中一項商品處於缺
貨狀態時，另一項商品才會以自身的庫存量
補充部分的缺貨量。本研究分析發生替代關
係時，兩商品各自存貨水準如何受到需求替
代的影響。 
為簡化問題環境，本研究之問題假設條
件如下： 
1. 在有限計畫時間下，考慮單一廠商生產兩
種商品，且商品生產存貨週期一致，商品
供應情況為規劃者可操縱的狀態。 
2. 兩商品需求率為固定常數，且生產率大於
需求率。 
3. 當存貨產生，商品壽命服從指數分配(即
退化率為常數)。 
4. 當缺貨發生，商品部分需求仍由該商品候
補(視欠撥率決定欠撥量)、部分需求轉移
到另一項商品(視被替代率決定需求轉移
量)，其餘需求則損失銷售機會。   
5. 兩商品單位時間生產率一樣且為固定常
數。 
 
本研究所運用到的符號定義如下： 
i：商品編號， 2 ,1=i  
I i(t)：時間點 t 的存貨水準， 2 ,1=i  
id ：商品需求率， 2 ,1=i  
iθ ：商品退化率， 10 ≤≤ iα ， 2 ,1=i  
iα ：商品欠撥率， 10 ≤≤ iθ ， 2 ,1=i  
γ ：商品被替代率，0 1γ≤ ≤  
ic ：商品單位生產成本， 2 ,1=i  
ih ：單位商品之單位時間儲存成本， 2 ,1=i  
ib ：單位商品之單位時間缺貨成本， 2 ,1=i  
p ：商品生產率 
is ：商品售價， 2 ,1=i  
L：商品生產存貨週期 
β i：存貨開始累積至存貨量到達最大的時
段， 2 ,1=i  
Ti：生產週期中，存貨水準高於零的時段，
2 ,1=i  
φ i：開始發生缺貨至缺貨量到達最大的時
段， 2 ,1=i  
λ i：生產週期中，存貨水準低於零的時段，
2 ,1=i  
在單一商品的每個生產週期中，如果不
考慮補充另一商品的缺貨，則存貨水準函數
圖形如圖 1 所示，一個生產存貨週期分為四
個階段，第一階段為區間[0,β]，在此階段一
開始商品便開始生產，生產量先扣除掉需求
及退化的量，剩餘的部分便持續累積，而使
得存貨水準持續上升，直到存貨量最大為止。 
第二階段為區間[β,T]，接續前一階段的
存貨水準，但在該階段商品已停止生產，故
存貨水準會因為需求及退化的消耗而持續下
降，直到存貨量耗盡為止。 
第三階段為區間[T , T+φ]，此階段一開
始以無正庫存量，因此在無法滿足需求的情
況下，會逐漸累積缺貨候補量，故存貨水準
會因為欠撥的量累積而持續下降，直到缺貨
量最大為止(此時存貨水準最小)。 
 6
)(1 tI
)(2 tI
2β 2T
11 ϕ+T
1T
22 ϕ+T 22 λ+T
1β
11 λ+T
 
圖 4  第三種替代情況下兩商品存貨模型 
 
第三種情況是商品一開始缺貨的時間點
T1 以及開始生產的時間點 T1+φ1，皆發生在商
品二生產存貨週期的第二階段。由圖 4 得
知，在第三種情況之下，商品一的生產存貨
模型仍不受影響，但商品二的生產存貨模型
在區間[T1 , T1+φ1]的存貨函數會受到影響，因
為商品二的存貨在區間[T1 , T1+φ1]時要額外
應付來自商品一的需求，因此在此區間內存
貨水準下降的速度會比原來快。 
 
(4)情況四 
當 β2≧T1 且 T2 ≧T1+φ1，如圖 5 所示： 
)(1 tI
)(2 tI
2β
22 ϕ+T 22 λ+T
2T
11 ϕ+T
1β
11 λ+T
1T
 
圖 5  第四種替代情況下兩商品存貨模型 
 
第四種情況是商品一開始缺貨的時間點
T1 發生在商品二生產存貨週期的第一階段，
而商品一開始生產的時間點 T1+φ1 發生在商
品二生產存貨週期的第二階段。由圖 5 得
知，在第四種情況之下，商品一的生產存貨
模型仍不受影響，但商品二的生產存貨模型
在區間[T1 , T1+φ1]的存貨函數會受到影響，因
為商品二的存貨在區間[T1 , T1+φ1]時要額外
應付來自商品一的需求，在區間[T1 ,β2]內存
貨水準上升的速度會比原來慢，在區間[β2, 
T1+φ1]內存貨水準下降的速度會比原來快。 
(5)情況五 
當 β2 ≧T1+φ1，如圖 6 所示： 
)(1 tI
)(2 tI
2β
22 ϕ+T 22 λ+T
2T
11 ϕ+T
1β
11 λ+T
1T
 
圖 6  第五種替代情況下兩商品存貨模型 
 
第五種情況是商品一開始缺貨的時間點
T1 以及開始生產的時間點 T1+φ1 皆發生在商
品二生產存貨週期的第一階段。由圖 6 得
知，在第五種情況之下，商品一的生產存貨
模型仍不受影響，但商品二的生產存貨模型
在區間[T1 , T1+φ1]的存貨函數會受到影響，因
為商品二的存貨在區間[T1 , T1+φ1]時要額外
應付來自商品一的需求，所以區間[T1 ,β2]內
存貨水準上升的速度會比原來慢。 
 
五、研究結果與建議 
5.1 研究結果 
在考慮兩商品皆具有替代性及退化性之
條件下，本研究建立了五種替代情況之兩產
 8
[8] Misra, R. B., 1975, “Optimum production 
lot size model for a system with 
deteriorating inventory”, International 
Journal of Production Research, Vol. 13, 
pp. 495-505. 
[9] Padmanabhan, G. and Vrat, P., 1995, 
“EOQ models for perishable items under 
stock dependent selling rate”, European 
Journal of Operational Research, Vol.86, 
pp. 281-292. 
[10] Parlar, M., 1988, “Game Theoretic 
Analysis of the Substitutable Product 
Inventory Problem with 
RandomDemands”, Naval Research 
Logistics, Vol.35, pp. 397-409. 
[11] Park, K. S., 1982,“Inventory models with 
partial backorders, ”International Journal 
of Systems Science”, Vol. 13, pp. 
1313-1317. 
[12] Pasternack, B.A. and Drezner, Z., 1991, 
“Optimal Inventory Policies for 
Substitutable Commodities with 
Stochastic Demand”, Naval Research 
Logistics, Vol. 38, pp. 221-240. 
[13] Shah, Y. K., 1977,“An order- level lot-size 
inventory model for deterioration Items”, 
AIIE Transactions, Vol. 9, pp. 108-112. 
[14] Veinott, A.J.R., 1969,”Optimality of 
myopic inventory policies for several 
substitute product”, Man. Sci., Vol. 15, No 
5, pp. 284-304. 
[15] Wee, H. M., 1993, “Economic production 
lot size model for deteriorating items with 
partial back-ordering”, Computers and 
Industrial Engineering, Vol. 24, pp. 
449-458. 
[16] Wee, H. M., 1995, “A deterministic 
lot-size inventory model for deterioration 
items with shortages and a declining 
market”, Computers & Industrial 
Engineering, Vol. 22, pp.345-356. 
[17] Wee, H. M. and Law, S. T., 1999, 
“Economic production lot size for 
deterioration items taking account of the 
time-value of money”, Computers & 
Industrial Engineering, Vol. 26, pp. 
545-558. 
- 2 - 
A Webomatrics Analysis between Taiwan and China Academic Web 
 by Sitation Analysis  
 
Chwen-Tzeng Su *   Lung Huei  
 
Department of Industry Management  
in National Yunlin University of Science and Technology 
e-mail: suct@yuntech.edu.tw, 
05-5342601#5114 
FAX: 05-5312044 
 
Abstract 
The cyberspace is an important part for their academic 
interflow. The study is based on the sitation analysis and 
proposes Web Impact Factor (WIF) as an indicator for web 
space analysis. The research result shows the Mainland 
China academic web is the most demand for the Taiwan 
academic webpage. It also shows the web page in Mainland 
China academic website have the most out-link to the 
science and engineer in Taiwan, but the web page in Taiwan 
academic website have the most out-link to the humanities 
resource in Mainland China. The reason is how much web 
resource in the library that will influence the 
authoritativeness of the university. 
 
Keywords: Citation Analysis, Webometrics, Web Impact 
Factor (WIF) 
 
1. Introduction  
 
Internet is becoming the university extension stage of 
knowledge explore. The university of Taiwan and China 
that depend and diffuse of knowledge model circumstance 
make an understanding in the web spare is expectation by 
this research. Through the relate research of cite number 
linking between the webpage that linking between webpage 
and interactive between the domain have explore in the web 
world that have process to strengthen in influence and 
competition of cyberspace . This research is using the 
sitation analysis of Webometrics concept. And employing 
the cross-strait liking circumstance to implement the probe 
for interaction with the 110 domain of university website 
provide by Taiwan and top 100 domain of university in 
mainland china promote by the china management science 
institute conduct for analysis target. The objective of this 
research that in the following:  
1) Analysis for the situation of university of Taiwan is 
linking cited by university website in Mainland China. 
2) Analysis for the situation of university website in 
Mainland China is linking cited by University in 
Taiwan. 
3) Explore the influence of university in Taiwan and 
China in the cyberspace thought calculation of the Web 
Impact Factor (WIF), luminosity and visibility. 
4) Analysis the both Taiwan and China university website 
linking cited the content attribute of network resource. 
 
2. Literature Reviews 
 
Cronin and Mckim (1996) has to deem that World Wide 
Web (WWW) will become the specific interflow 
communication media of science and academy, and the 
bibliometrics will applying literature under growing 
continuous [1] in the cyberspace; regarding for the 
differentiation of attribute in literature and website cited 
these two type difference principle parts, Rousseau (1997) 
created the “sitation” to representing the cite relation of 
between of website to divided the between of literature 
cited the difference of citation [2]; Smith (1999) to had to 
apply the sitation analysis aimed at four domain unit of 
- 4 - 
be conduct for a indicator of a domain importance 
(Vreeland, 2000) [12]. 
 
A Wget program written by Java and Borland C++ 
Builder (BCB) is developed in this paper to obtain overall 
the hyperlink information of university domain, process the 
website original file make website hyperlink with external 
information file. The research structure is illustratetd in 
Figure 1.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. Results Analysis 
 
This research download every university both of Taiwan 
and mainland China website cite information on the 2003, 
July 1 to 31, it able to surfing directly conduct for research 
scope and don’t need the IP and Pin Number, but it exclude 
the database form and specific multi media webpage 
information. The target research is 110unvisersity domain 
in Taiwan; due to, mainland china in university are 
extremely plenty, have make the time in searching the 
information so long, therefore, there have making a 
decision that to obtain most representative top 100 
university domain of mainland china conduct for search 
target, it aimed as to analysis the sitation information 
between the both of 110 university in Taiwan and 100 
university in mainland China. Finally, has 1492 webpage of 
university domain in Taiwan had cite by university domain 
in mainland China, and 900 webpage of university in 
mainland Taiwan had cite by university domain in Taiwan.  
 
4.1 The luminosity and visibility of university 
domain in Taiwan with university in mainland 
china.  
 
Web domain is cite with external web information is call 
by “Luminosity”, the higher luminosity is representing that 
the website is more cite with web information; example for 
university in Taiwan cite information with university of 
mainland china had disclosing on the table 1 that the most 
higher luminosity is National Taiwan Normal University 
(NTNU) (93), and second National Taiwan university (NTU) 
(87), Tamkang University (TKU) (78) and National 
Chengchi University (NCCU) (72) and so on. We could be 
know after analysis in further that National Taiwan Normal 
University (NTNU) is more cite with library resource of 
university in mainland China, the demand is more tread to 
literature website resource, so become the first on external 
cite with university of Mainland China  
The domain cited number is call for “visibility”. The higher 
visibility is representing that the higher cited university 
domain; disclosing on the table 2 that the most higher 
luminosity university is National Taiwan University (316), 
this representing from university in mainland china that in 
the university domain in Taiwan that the National Taiwan 
University is cited by university of mainland China in  
Hyperlink 
 Analysis the hyperlink 
 Statistic the website domain cite 
with external cited number 
 Produce the result file  
 Total literature file  
Hyperlink 
Internet 
Processing website in original file make the websit
hyperlink with external information file 
Searching the 
website 
information 
Figure 1 Chart for research 
- 6 - 
4, and proof in further that PKU is most education status 
and authority in the mainland china.  
 
Table 3 the top ten for Luminosity of university domain 
in mainland china summary table 
No. Name of University  Luminosity (cite number )
1 Peking University(PKU) 357 
2 Fudan University 201 
3 Shanghal-Jiaotong University(SJTU) 164 
4 Nanjing University(NJU) 145 
5 Tianjin University(TJU) 134 
6 Wuhan University(WHU) 117 
7 Tsinghua University(Tsingzhua) 77 
8 Zhejiang University(ZJU) 44 
9 Sun Yat-sen University(ZSU) 42 
10 University of Science and Technology of China(USTC) 14 
To analysis through the luminosity and visibility that the 
visibility of university domain in mainland china, X for 
invisibility on coordinate, and the Y for luminosity, 
disclosing on the figure 3 to expectation understanding for 
the whether between these two correlation has to exist, the 
result has disclose that university in mainland China has  
Table 4 The top ten for visibility of university domain in 
mainland china summary table 
No. Name of university Visibility (cite number) 
1 Peking University(PKU) 136 
2 Tsinghua University(Tsingzhua) 89 
3 Nanjing University(NJU) 41 
4 Shanghal Jiaotong University(SJTU) 34 
5 Fudan University(Fudan) 30 
6 Zhejiang University(ZJU) 28 
7 Sun Yat-sen University(ZSU) 26 
8 Wuhan University(WHU) 25 
9 Tianjin University(TJU) 23 
10 University of Science and Technology of 19 
 
correlation a little bit (Person’s correlative coefficient 0.643) 
between the visibility and Luminosity though calculate 
from the statistic software, as well as representing that the 
both luminosity and visibility is become the cite target of 
other university. 
 
Figure 3 visibility Vs. Luminosity for the university in 
mainland China  
 
 
This research had analysis in further that, would like to 
understanding domain that whether an amount of total 
webpage will influence the height of visibility, whether will 
more attract the cite number by to have more webpage in 
the cyberspace; for regarding university domain in Taiwan 
that, these two not relative, it nothing to discover the 
correlation (person’s correlative coefficient 0.113, for lower 
relation) of the between of visibility and domain total 
webpage, it representing that not notable of these two 
relation. That mean university domain not necessarily 
become the website is more cited when large number of 
total webpage. For example: National Sun Yat-sen 
University, the domain total webpage has 586,457 pages 
(table 5), it is largest volume of total webpage in university 
of Taiwan, but the visibility is seventh for cite with 
mainland China. Therefore, regarding for the domain of 
university in mainland China cite with university in Taiwan 
that is not necessarily to attract large volume cite by 
external when has to website of largest volume total 
webpage. In contrast, refer the information for domain of 
university in Taiwan has to cite with university in mainland 
China that relation between the both of visibility and 
domain total webpage has more notable (person’s 
correlation coefficient is 0.837, it is highest relation), it is 
representing that between these two have notable of 
160140120 100 80 60 40 20 0
400
300
200
100
0
 Invisibility  
Luminosity 
- 8 - 
from the table 5 and table 6 that has discover the total 
webpage of domain of university in Taiwan has more seven 
times that university in mainland China. The total webpage 
can be seem as notable have differentiation from the 
National Tsing Hua University and Tsinghua University, 
National Tsing Hua University has 224,132 pages, and 
Tsing Hua University just has 18,455 pages, these has 12 
times difference, it make total webpage is higher as well as 
denominator of formula is higher; because this type 
webpage mode is largest differentiation and making mix 
with WLF that is more need to cautious, as well as using 
WIF in difference mode or characteristic of domain need to 
cautious. Domain of measurement should be same as 
characteristic, otherwise, it will make the inaccurate. 
Anyhow, WIF is more suitable application for internal 
domain member.  
 
Furthermore, regarding difference domain has compare 
with the whole cite domain that in principle, each of 
domain has to seem as hypostatization of one another 
independence equal. Cited number could be representing 
the degree of one another dependent in each of domain. The 
external cite number is more than cited number in the 
university in mainland China. In contrast, university in 
Taiwan is few cite with external cite number of university 
in mainland China, therefore we could be estimate that 
university in mainland China is giving higher web resource 
demand for university in Taiwan, but domain of university 
in Taiwan is less demand resource for the domain of 
university in mainland China. 
 
Regarding for the cross-strait that Taiwan national 
general university is main for mainland China cite with 
domain of Taiwan, another that National Taiwan University 
is the first, and other university not any differentiation in 
the chart and estimate, than, the university of science and  
technology is lack in top ten, the cause that the reputation 
and historical of these university of science and technology 
not as better as general university, so a few the cite number. 
It can be know the top ten summery from the table 4 that 
Taiwan cite with mainland China website that expectation 
outcome for Peking university is the first. 
 
For regarding for the analysis in cite web resource 
content that number of notable in research that had discover 
is main for library, whatever analysis for Taiwan cite with 
mainland china or mainland china cite with website of 
university on Taiwan. Therefore, university library website 
cite should be consideration issue for the domain cite when 
the main of resource in the library web resource and 
collection helping the student seek academy information 
resource, the know well of the university of science and 
engineering had cite with other the know well of the 
university of science and engineering, as the same thing as 
the university main for literature.  
 
5. Conclusion and suggestion for the future  
 
The web information resource can be contribute by every 
one, but the quality both of information and knowledge are 
easy to make the vague and confuse if without the evaluate 
in deliberate; in a theory that high degree of cite in website 
that is representing the information resource is high quality , 
the measurement of sitation analysis can be developing a 
tool for traceability and to probe most influence and 
authoritativeness website in domain of specific science and 
geographic scope. This research result shows the Mainland 
China academic web is the most demand for the Taiwan 
academic webpage. It also shows the web page in Mainland 
China academic website have the most out-link to the 
science and engineer in Taiwan, but the web page in Taiwan 
academic website have the most out-link to the humanities 
resource in Mainland China. The reason is how much web 
resource in the library that will influence the 
authoritativeness of the university. 
 
6. Reference 
 
[1]. Cronin, B. & McKim, G. (1996), “Science and 
scholarship on the World Wide Web: a North American 
