2 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
開發基於先導知識之混合模式於知識萃取之研究-以醫療預測與股市預測為例 
Developing Hybrid Model Based on Priori Knowledge for Knowledge Extraction: 
A case study of medical forecasting and stock market forecasting 
中文摘要 
Priori Knowledge一詞起源於哲學的領域，意思為日常生活中，許多事情不需要實際的理論基
礎，就可形成一般的通論。如何進行知識萃取並妥善的應用在各領域，將是建立Priori 
Knowledge的重要關鍵與原則。本子計畫主要致力於整合類神經網路模式與總計畫所涉略的智
慧型計算模式以形成混合模式，以進行知識萃取模式之建立，並將此一知識萃取模式，運用
在子計畫三的醫學探勘與子計畫四的財務探勘。本整合型子計畫已建構基因類神經網路與
Priori Knowledge作為知識萃取之模型，其中Priori Knowledge將以案例式推理來做規則萃取，
並以證券市場的知識萃取作為應用，再透過基因演算法修正類神經網路對於參數的設定以提
升知識萃取的正確率。本子計畫已發展出適用於股市預測的知識萃取模型，執行期間，其他
子計畫也已提供多方向的改善機制。 
關鍵詞：先導知識、知識萃取、案例式推理、基因神經網路 
Abstract 
The topic of Priori Knowledge is from the philosophy domain. It has been a central account of 
many theories of knowledge and meaning. Perhaps without Priori Knowledge, there is no way to 
explain our knowledge of mathematics and logic. However, what processes can extract these rules? 
That is the most important when we desire to establish an efficient rule base from the Priori 
Knowledge. In this sub-project, we are striving for incorporating Neural Networks and some Priori 
Knowledge extraction models from Computational Intelligence models introduced in the 
head-project to be a hybrid model. Then we will apply this hybrid model to other three sub-projects: 
Sub-project 3, medical data mining; Sub-project 4, financial data mining. We have developed the 
knowledge extraction model via integrating Genetic Neural Networks and Priori Knowledge. The 
Priori Knowledge will be extracted from the famous Case Based Reasoning. And this hybrid model 
will be applied to financial rules extraction. We desire to improve the performance of the hybrid 
model via incorporating Genetic Algorithm to be the parameters fine-tuner. This sub-project 
develops knowledge extraction model for stock market forecasting, and the feedback responses 
from other sub-projects have been considered as the improving direction. 
Keywords: Priori Knowledge, Knowledge Extraction, Case Based Reasoning, Genetic Neural 
Network 
 
 
4 
低噪音的環境下。Marko Subasi 等人(2005)對於主動脈的圖像辨識是透過三個步驟完成的：1.
利用主動脈外型的先導知識初步判定；2.使用 GDM-based method；3.型態比對學。該方法對
12 個病人的影像掃描做了統計驗證，共 497 張影像，統計分析證實了此方法具有很高的辨識
率。廖元甫等人(2008)在評估一個未知型號的手機的特性時，藉由先導知識的輔助，幾乎達
成最佳驗證。針對HTIMIT數據進行實驗，比較ML-AKI法與傳統的 posteriori-adapted Gaussian 
mixture models，speaker 的平均識別率可從 60.0%提升到 74.6%。 
 類神經網路於預測方面之研究 
類神經網路（Artificial Neural Network），是指模仿生物神經網路的資訊處理系統。類神
經網路是一種計算系統，其中包括軟體與硬體，它使用大量簡單的人工神經細胞來模仿生物
神經網路的能力。人工神經元是生物神經元的簡單模擬，它從外界環境或者其他人工神經元
取得資訊，並加以非常簡單的運算，輸出其結果到外界環境或者其他人工神經元，以便用於
推估、預測、決策、診斷。類神經網路應用於股市預測方面的研究則最為常見。Liu 與 Yao(2001)
的研究結果發現，以演化式神經網路預測股價，可以明顯提高預測能力。Abraham 等(2001)
的實驗結果顯示，類神經網路預測出的 RMSE 值在 3.5%以下，而模糊類神經模型也可以提供
100%的趨勢預測。Abraham 與 Yeung (2003)的實驗結果顯示，結合兩種不同演算法的結果優
於單一演算法的結果，而與 Direct 演算法進行整合可以得到最低的 RMSE、MAP 及 MAPE
值。 
 案例式推理於知識萃取之研究 
Chang 等(2005a)結合類神經網路中的自組織映射類神經網路與案例式推理，對新發行的
書籍進行銷售預測，以幫助書店做出最佳的訂購數量決策。實驗對象以某台灣書店的書籍銷
售資料為 CBR 的資料庫。研究結果發現，SOM/CBR 比 K-mean/CBR 可得到更佳的預測結果。
Hongkyu 與 Ingoo(1996)利用案例式推理、辨別分析及類神經網路三種演算工具，應用於預測
銀行是否或倒閉的問題上。預測模式總共分為訓練、測試、調整及預測結果四個步驟，其中
有訓練、測試與歸納資料等三種輸入資料。實驗結果證實整合此三種方法比單一方法所得到
的預測準確度更為精確。Chang(2005b)將案例式推理應用於診斷孩童發展延遲的篩選上。其
使用 CBR 的概念建立一個孩童發展延遲的篩選系統，幫助醫生能夠更精確的判斷還孩童是否
有延遲發展的現象。實驗結果顯示，經由此系統的判斷，模擬案例的正確性可達到 91%，證
實此系統擁有高水準的驗證結果。Liu 與 Sin(1999)評估 Case Based Reasoning（CBR）、Time 
Lagged Recurrent Network（TLRN）與 Radial Basis Function（RBF）neural network 三種方法
在機器維修排程的研究。研究對象為香港地下鐵公司，將機器種類、使用時間、車站地點、
機器故障次數及頻率、機器的維護間隔時間等等，做為訓練模擬因數。將此三種方法的結果
與過去使用 Fast Prop Tank 方法做一比較，結果顯示以 TLRN 及 CBR 方法的結果最佳，誤差
率為 0.035068 及 0.069779。 
 基因結構探勘運算子(Mining Gene Structures Operator) 
Chang 等人(2005c)提出一個基因結構探勘的方法，從兩個基因運算子－複製（duplication）
和製造（fabrication）來改善基因演算法，藉由複製來加快收斂速度和避免陷入局部最佳解，
並且透過蒐集菁英染色體集合中有用的資訊，將其用於產生一組新的人造解集合，即製作人
造染色體（Artificial Chromosome）集合，在蒐集資訊時，其利用一機率矩陣（Dominance Matrix）
做投票以記錄下每個菁英解拜訪順序出現各城市的次數，再利用這個機率矩陣所記錄下的資
訊，建構出所需的人造解集合，研究中將此用以求解旅行銷售員問題（Traveling Salesman 
Problem, TSP）。該研究證實將基因結構探勘的方法運用於基因演算法上，可有效加速其解的
收斂並獲得更高品質的解。 
Chang 等人(2007)提出 MGISPGA 來解決組合性的問題，針對 SPGA 的一些操作元作改
善，再改變其演算法的流程，成為承接式 SPGA，最後在結合基因結構探勘的機制，用以求
解多目標流程型排程問題、多目標平行機台排程問題與多目標背包問題，其基因結構探勘法
又可分為簡單的基因結構探勘（SMGS）、加權式基因結構探勘（WMGS）與門檻式基因結構
6 
 
圖 4 整合 GA 與混合模式的知識萃取模式 
基因演算法已發展多年，近年吾等專研於基因結構探勘(Mining Gene Structures, MGS)獲
致求解品質之改善(Chang, 2005a, 2005b, 2005c, 2007)，以下將介紹 MGS 的發展歷程。 
Chang 等學者於 2005 年提出一個基因結構探勘的方法，從兩個基因運算子－複製
（duplication）和製造（fabrication）來改善基因演算法，藉由複製來加快收斂速度和避免陷
入局部最佳解，並且透過蒐集菁英染色體集合中有用的資訊，將其用於產生一組新的人造解
集合，即製作人造染色體（Artificial Chromosome）集合，在蒐集資訊時，其利用一機率矩陣
（Dominance Matrix）做投票以記錄下每個菁英解拜訪順序出現各城市的次數，再利用這個機
率矩陣所記錄下的資訊，建構出所需的人造解集合，研究中將此用以求解旅行銷售員問題
（Traveling Salesman Problem, TSP）。該研究證實將基因結構探勘的方法運用於基因演算法
上，可有效加速其解的收斂並獲得更高品質的解。 
Chang 等人(2007)提出 MGISPGA 來解決組合性的問題，針對 SPGA 的一些操作元作改
善，再改變其演算法的流程，成為承接式 SPGA，最後在結合基因結構探勘的機制，用以求
解多目標流程型排程問題、多目標平行機台排程問題與多目標背包問題，其基因結構探勘法
又可分為簡單的基因結構探勘（SMGS）、加權式基因結構探勘（WMGS）與門檻式基因結構
探勘（TWMGS），並與 SPGA、NSGA-II 及 SPEA2 等三個演化式演算法進行比較，並以 rD1 、
R metric 與C metric 三種衡量指標來討論其求解之表現。其實驗結果顯示，MGISPGA 可求得
一組兼具收斂性及擴散性的柏拉圖解，且三種基因結構探勘方法中，TWMGS 所得到之求解
效果最好。 
MGS 發展至今，大致有三個過程，分別列述為 AC, AC1, AC2： 
AC 主要的觀念大致為為根據基因演算法在演化過程中之基因位置資訊，轉換成機率矩
陣，進而產生人造染色體，且產生之人造染色體集合為母體數個，不經過交配及突變，為個
別ㄧ世代；其中藉由輪盤法（roulette wheel）增加人造染色體之多樣化，且依照輪盤法來指
派工件到位置上，如果機率矩陣中有愈高的機率，則其工件被指派到特別的位置機率也愈高，
藉此使得演化過程快速收歛，並更進一步有效的找到更好的解。 
 
 
8 
產生的染色體放入交配池中進行交配（ NAC 為人造染色體佔所有母體百分比的個數； popN 為
母體個數），其 NAC 公式如下： 
×= popN NAC （產生百分比） 
在此我們產生人造染色體的方法為求取機率矩陣中最大票數的優先指派，直到所有工件
均指派完畢，而其票數若為 0 或票數相同，則隨機排序；以下舉一小例子作詳加說明（如圖
5），加權後之機率矩陣中最大票數為 4.46，故工件 5 指派至位置 2，第二高票為 3.88，故工
件 1 指派至位置 3，第三高票為 3.05，故工件 4 指派至位置 1，如此，可指派之工件均指派完
畢，我們便將未指派之工件 2、工件 3 隨機指派至位置 4 及位置 5，如此範例我們可獲得兩種
可能的人造染色體，分別為[4,1,5,2,3]及[4,1,5,3,2]。GAAC1 之演化流程圖如圖 6 所示 
 
圖 5 加權後之機率矩陣 
 
 
圖 6 GAAC1 之演算流程圖 
10 
仁寶 
KD 指標交叉 37.09% 25.09% 
30.25% KD 指標交叉搭配 移動平均線升降 31.63% 19.44% 
K 線升降搭配威廉指標 38.53% 31.44% 
聯電 
KD 指標交叉 43.02% 26.76% 
23.83% KD 指標交叉搭配 移動平均線升降 32.98% 21.00% 
K 線升降搭配威廉指標 78.75% 62.31% 
下跌 
矽統 
KD 指標交叉 91.80% 42.54% 
37.40% KD 指標交叉搭配 移動平均線升降 46.47% 31.45% 
K 線升降搭配威廉指標 65.20% 52.16% 
神腦 
KD 指標交叉 39.89% 25.52% 
18.54% KD 指標交叉搭配 移動平均線升降 41.48% 27.79% 
K 線升降搭配威廉指標 46.62% 37.28% 
友訊 
KD 指標交叉 37.81% 30.04% 
7.18% KD 指標交叉搭配 移動平均線升降 23.29% 17.19% 
K 線升降搭配威廉指標 53.86% 37.38% 
*測試期間：2005/10/3~2006/3/31 
 
由表 1 看出，Priori Knowledge 之成效優異，相較於「未加入 GAAC1」與「未加入 Priori 
Knowledge」兩個比較模式而言，不論上升、盤整或持平的個股，本研究所建構之 Hybrid model
皆擁有較佳之投資報酬率。 
五、 結論 
由於電腦科技的發展越來越進步，近年來有相當多的研究學者投入在知識管理相關領域
的研究，但是大多數的研究僅探討相關工具應用於本身的領域中，較缺少完整且廣域的探討，
尤其是如何有效的進行知識萃取並妥善的將萃取出的 Priori Knowledge 應用在各種不同的領
域。 
本計畫發展出三種先導知識以利買賣時點之判斷，將其視為預測模式的訓練資料，同時
整合 GAAC1 之優點以強化類神經網路之權重訓練。本計畫之實驗結果證實導入先導知識的
重要性，由結果亦可窺知 GAAC1 於調整類神經網路之連結權重上十分有效。本計畫的 9 檔
標的個股之投資報酬率皆優於前述兩種模式，因此可以證實本計畫所建構的買賣點預測模型
確實可以作為投資買賣時點的參考依據。 
六、 參考文獻 
[1]  Abraham, A., and A. A. Yeung. “Integrating Ensemble of Intelligent Systems for Modeling Stock Indices,” In 
Proceedings of 7th International Work Conference on Artificial and Natural Neural Networks, Lecture Notes in 
Computer Science- Volume 2687, Jose Mira and Jose R. Alverez （Eds.）, Springer Verlag, Germany, pp.774-781, 
2003. 
[2]  Abraham, A., B. Nath, and P. K. Mahanti, “Hybrid Intelligent Systems for Stock Market Analysis”, Proceedings of 
the International Conference on Computational Science-Part II, pp.337-345, 2001. 
 1
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                  日期： 2011 年 10 月 12 日 
一、參加會議經過 
These two conferences are annual meeting. Many scientists, engineers, educators, and students from all 
over the world came to publish the latest research findings and exchange information on emerging areas 
of research in the fields. The goal of these two conferences is to bring together the researchers from 
academia and industry as well as practitioners to share ideas, problems and solutions relating to the 
multifaceted aspects of Business and Information Management and Intelligent Computing. In these two 
conferences, I met many world-class plenary speakers, exhibitions, and a large number of oral and poster 
presentations. 
二、與會心得 
I was happy to build up possible research collaborations from researchers/educators over the world. I 
must say that this trip is very meaningful and productive in my current research. I would definitely hope 
to attend another conference, if possible, to build up international links. I appreciate NSC which has 
always been very encouraging and supportive to researchers who are willing and capable to step outside 
of Taiwan and embrace the coming of globalization for academic collaborations. 
計畫編號 NSC-99-2221-E-424-003 
計畫名稱 智慧型計算於知識萃取之整合研究-子計畫一:開發基於先導知識之混合模式於知識萃取之研究-以醫療預測與股市預測為例(I) 
出國人員
姓名 劉鎮豪 
服務機構
及職稱 開南大學資訊管理系 助理教授 
會議時間 2011 年 07 月 04日至2011 年 07 月 06 日 會議地點 Bangkok, Thailand 
會議名稱 2011 International Conference on Business and Information (BAI 2011) 
發表論文
題目 
Two-Phase Artificial Immune System for Multi-objective Flowshop Scheduling 
Problems 
會議時間 2010 年 11 月 29 日至2010 年 12 月 01 日 會議地點 Seoul, Korea 
會議名稱 International Conference on Computer Sciences and Convergence Information Technology (ICCIT 2010) 
發表論文
題目 Two-stage Artificial Immune System in Grid Scheduling Problems 
附件四 
Two-Phase Artificial Immune System for 
Multi-objective Flowshop Scheduling Problems 
 
Chen-Hao Liu1*, Yen-Wen Wang2 
1Department of Information Management, Kai-Nan University 
No.1, Kainan Rd., Luzhu Shiang, Taoyuan 33857, Taiwan R.O.C. 
chliu@mail.knu.edu.tw 
2Department of Industrial Engineering and Management, Ching-Yun University 
No. 229, Chien-Hsin Rd., Jung-Li, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
ywwang@cyu.edu.tw 
 
ABSTRACT 
This research presents a Two-Phase Artificial Immune System (TPAIS) 
approach to solve the Multi-Objective Flowshop Scheduling Problems (MOFSP). In 
phase I, we develop a non-dominate solution based AIS for better diversity. In phase 
II, we adopt the SPAIS [2] for better convergence. The non-dominate solutions can 
provide widespread searching. And the SPAIS is taken as the depth searching method. 
In AIS field, most researchers use the clonal selection of B cells during the evolving 
processes to solve various optimization problems. Instead, we try to develop the T 
helper cell and T suppressor cell in T cell combining B cell to solve the MOFSP. 
Where T helper cell is used to help improving the solution and then T suppressor cell 
is generated to increase the diversity of the population. The total difference of 
completion time of each job is applied as the affinity function instead of the difference 
of makespan of the schedule. The experimental tests show that this novel TPAIS 
method is very effective when comparing with SPGA [15], NSGA-II [10], and 
SPEA-II [3]. 
 
Keyword: Two-Phase Artificial Immune System, Multi-Objective Problems, 
Flowshop Scheduling Problems 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
In the operations research literature, Flowshop scheduling is one of the most 
well-known problems in the area of scheduling. Flowshops are useful tools in 
modeling manufacturing processes. A permutation Flowshop is a job processing 
facility which consists of several machines and jobs to be processed on the machines. 
In a permutation Flowshop all jobs follow the same machine or processing order and 
job processing is not interrupted once started. Our objective is to find a sequence for 
the jobs so that the makespan or the completion time is a minimum. 
Standard GA should employ a reasonably large population and an adequately long 
evolution process in order to produce enough offspring individuals. Under this 
situation, it would be not difficult to observe a severe decline of the performance of 
these algorithms when they face large scale Flowshop scheduling instances. Because 
of the NP-Complete nature of Flowshop scheduling problem, the solution space will 
expand exponentially with the problem size. Furthermore, it is not easy to jump out 
from the local optimal solutions by adopting the GA. Therefore, the AIS is adopted in 
this study. 
AIS is an intelligent problem-solving technique that has been used in scheduling 
problems for about 10 years. AIS is a kind of computational systems inspired by 
theoretical immunology, observed immune functions, principles are mechanisms in 
Since Schaffer [8] proposed VEGA (vector evaluated genetic algorithm) in 1985, the 
application of GAs in solving multi-objective problems has been developed and it 
bloomed in the mid 1990s. The research introduces two of the most famous and 
well-known approaches: SPEA-II (Strength Pareto Evolutionary Algorithm II [3]) and 
NSGA-II (Non-dominated Sorting Genetic Algorithm II [10]) in the following, and 
also the proposed algorithm will compare with the relative algorithm, SPGA 
(Sub-Population Genetic Algorithm [15]), so it will be described as well. 
 
3. PROBLEM DEFINITIONS 
Flowshops are useful tools in modeling manufacturing processes. A permutation 
Flowshop is a job processing facility, which consists of several machines and several 
jobs to be processed on the machines. In a permutation Flowshop all jobs follow the 
same machine or processing order. Our objectives are to find a set of compromise 
solutions so that the makespan and maximum tardiness are minimized. 
The Flowshop scheduling problem is a typical assembly line problem where  
different jobs have to be processed on  different machines. All jobs are processed 
on all the machines in the same order. The processing times of the jobs on machines 
are fixed irrespective of the order in which the processing is done. The problem is 
characterized by a matrix 
n
m
{ } mjnipP ij ,...,1,,...,1, === , of processing times. Each 
machine processes exactly one job at a time and each job is processed on exactly one 
machine at a time. The problem then is to find a sequence of jobs such that the 
makespan that is the completion time of the last job in the sequence on the last 
machine is minimized. If  denotes the completion time for job , then we are 
trying to minimize max . There are many other criterions that can be considered 
for optimization. We refer the reader to Bagchi 
iC i
iC
[18] for a detailed discussion of 
multi-objective scheduling using GA. For details of the Flowshop and other 
scheduling and sequencing problems we refer the reader to Baker [11]. 
The Flowshop scheduling can be formerly defined as follows: if is the 
processing times for job  on machine , and a job permutation 
( )jip ,
i j { }nppp K,, 21 , where 
there are n jobs and m machines, then the completion times ( )jiC ,π  is calculated as 
follows: 
 ( ) ( )1,1, 11 ππ pC =  (1) ( ) ( ) ( ) niforpCC iii ,...,21,1,1, 1 =+= − πππ  (2) ( ) ( ) ( ) mjforjpjCC ,...,2,1,1, 111 =+−= πππ  (3) ( ) ( ) ( ){ } ( ) mjniforjpjCjCjC iiii ,...,2;,...,2,1,,,max, 1 ==+−= − ππππ  (4) 
 
The makespan is finally defined as 
 ( ) ( )mCC n ,max ππ =  (5) 
 
Then, the objective is to find a permutation  in the set of all permutations *π ∏  
such that  
 ( ) ( ) ∏∈∀≤ πππ CCmax  (6) 
 
 Fig. 2. The novel AIS procedure in the proposed TPAIS 
Step 5. Identifying the Antigen 
One of Antibodies with highest fitness will be identified as the Antigen. In this 
research, the chromosome with minimum  is the Antigen. maxC
 
Step 6. Calculate the Affinity between Antibodies and Antigen 
In any generation, we need to calculate the affinity between the antigen and 1−popN  
antibodies. 
 
Step 7. Two-step mutation 
The antibodies with better affinity will be feed into multiple swap mutation, and 
scramble mutation will used to the bad ones. If the mutate result is worse than the 
original one, we further adopt swap mutation for searching better result (seem as B 
cells). The process is shown in figure 4. 
 
 
Fig. 4. Two-step Mutation 
 
Step 8. Replacement 
The original antibodies and mutated ones will be sorted, those antibodies with better 
affinity will be choose and replaced as the antibodies in next generation. 
 
Step 9. Update Elite Poor 
The top  antibodies will be feed into the elite poor, but the bad ones will be 
eliminated from the poor. Furthermore, the number of antibodies in elite poor ( ) 
will be decreased when the generation number is increasing. 
n
eliteN
 
Step 10. Generate the Artificial Antibodies ( ) AbAc _
The measure of solution quality 
RD1 is a metric which considers the convergence and diversity simultaneously 
(Knowles [7]) and it is adopted in this research to evaluate the solution quality. Its 
main concept is to calculate the shortest distance between each solution in the 
Pareto-Solution set and the set to be compared with, and then calculate the mean 
value. The smaller  is the better. The procedure is explained as follows: RD1
jA  is the number of the sets to be compared, and the Jj ,...,2,1= . Therefore, if there 
are  sets to be compared, then the  value of each set has to be calculated. J RD1 *Z  
is the referred or real set of the Pareto Solution. The formula of  is as follows: RD1
 
( ) { }∑
∈
∈=
*
min11
*
Zy
jxyjR AxdZ
AD
 
(10) 
 
xyd  is the distance of each solution in set  and the formula is: jA
 ( ) ( ))()()()( *1*1 yfyfyfyfd NNxy −++−= L  (11) 
 
In formula (11),  is the function number of the objectives (N 2=N  in this research). 
The distance is not computed directly from the calculation of the objective value; 
instead,  is computed indirectly after normalization. The normalization procedure 
is to convert all objective values between 0 and 100. 
xyd
 
5. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
The research uses the Flowshop scheduling case study by Ishibuchi [4] in which four 
types were included in the bi-objective flow-shop problems; they were 20, 40, 60, and 
80 jobs in 20 machines. Two objectives are the total completion time (Cmax) and 
maximum tardiness (Tmax).The parameters of proposed algorithm are defined in 
Table I. The experimental results depicted in Figure 6 to Figure 9 for comparing with 
SPGA, NSGA-II and SPEA-II. By observing these results, the TPAIS outperforms 
than others.  
 
Table1. The parameters of TPAIS 
Number of generations 1000 
Number of sub-group 20 
Population size in sub-group ( ) popN 50 
Threshold of affinity (τ ) average affinity 
Threshold of artificial antibody (ε ) 0.3 
The generation interval for decreasing elite number 150 
The threshold for injecting T helper/suppressor cells (λ ) 0.667 
Number of elites 90 
 
6. CONCLUSIONS 
In real applications, managers desire to solve this kind of problem in limited time. 
However, it is not so optimistic. Therefore, many researchers developed 
meta-heuristic algorithms to deal these problems. The AIS is also a general 
meta-heuristic algorithm, but the past researches only focus on the produce artificial B 
cells in Immune System. In this paper, we develop the T Helper/Suppressor cells for 
simulating the Immune System more close. 
The TPAIS include two parts for representing the real immune system. In the first 
stage, clonal selection represents the function of B cells. In the second stage, two-step 
mutation will adopted as the function of T helper/suppressor cells. In the initial 
generations, we feed the better artificial antibodies (seem as T helper cells) into the 
new antibody group for faster convergence. After a few generations, we will take 
those worse artificial antibodies (seem as T suppressor cells) into the new antibody 
group for increasing the diversity. By observing the experimental results, the 
two-stage AIS is easier to jump out the local optimal so the performance is better than 
other meta-heuristic algorithms. 
This research focus on developing a sub-population based artificial immune system 
for solving the MOFSP. Comparing with NSGA-II, SPEA-II, and SPGA, the 
performance of the proposed TPAIS is outstanding than others. That represents this 
method is very suitable for this kind of multi-objective problems. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
The authors thank the editors and the anonymous reviewers for their helpful 
comments and suggestions. This research work is supported by the National Science 
of Council in Taiwan with the contract No. NSC-99-2221-E-424-003. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] C.A. Coello, G.T. Pulido, and M.S. Lechuga, “Handling multiple objectives with 
particle swarm optimization,” IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation, 
vol.8, no.3, pp.256-279, 2004. 
[2] C.H. Liu, Y.W. Wang, and Y.S. Tzeng, “Sub-Population Artificial Immune 
System for Multi-objective Flowshop Scheduling Problems,” The 5th 
International Conference on Computer Sciences and Convergence Information 
Technology (ICCIT), pp.872-877, 2010. 
[3] E. Zitzler, M. Laumanns, and L. Thiele, SPEA2: Improving the strength Pareto 
evolutionary algorithm. Technical Report 103, Computer Engineering and 
Networks Laboratory (TIK), Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) Zurich, 
Gloriastrasse 35, CH-8092 Zurich, Switzerland. 2001 
[4] H. Ishibuchi, T. Yoshida, and T. Murata, “Balance between Genetic Search and 
Local Search in Memetic Algorithms for Multi-objective Permutation Flowshop 
Scheduling,” IEEE Trans on Evolutionary Computation, vol.7, no.2, pp.204-223, 
2003. 
[5] J. Hu, E. Goodman, K. Seo, Z. Fan, and R. Rosenberg, “The hierarchical fair 
competition framework for sustainable evolutionary algorithms,” Evolutionary 
Computation, vol.13, no.2, pp.241-277, 2005. 
Two-stage Artificial Immune System in Grid 
Scheduling Problems 
 
Chen-Hao Liu1* , Pei-Chann Chang2, and Yen-Wen Wang3 
1*Department of Information Management, Kai-Nan University 
No.1, Kai-Nan Road, Taoyuan 33857, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
chliu@mail.knu.edu.tw 
2Department of Information Management, Yuan-Ze University 
No.135, Yuan-Dong Road, Taoyuan 32026, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
iepchang@saturn.yzu.edu.tw 
3Department of Industrial Engineering and Management, Ching-Yun University 
No.229, Chien-Hsin Road, Taoyuan 32097, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
ywwang@cyu.edu.tw 
 
 
    Abstract- This research presents a two-stage AIS approach to 
solve the Grid scheduling problems. According to the literature 
survey, most researchers use the clone selection of B cells during 
the evolving processes and the function of B cells in AIS 
researches to solve various optimization problems. Instead, we 
try to implement the T helper cell and T suppressor cell in T cell 
combining B cell to solve the Grid Scheduling problems. The 
major differences of our method from other earlier approaches 
includes: 1. A two-stage approach is applied using B cell as a 
basis and then T cell is employed next. T helper cell is used to 
help improving the solution and then T suppressor cell is 
generated to increase the diversity of the population.2.A new 
formula is proposed to calculate the affinity of the Antibody. The 
total difference of completion time of each job is applied instead 
of the difference of makespan of the schedule. This new AIS 
method can supplement the flaw of GA using fitness as the basis 
and a new Lifespan which will keep good diversified 
chromosomes within the population to extend the searching 
spaces. The experimental tests show that this novel AIS method is 
very effective when compared with other Meta-heuristics such as 
GA and SA. 
 
Keywords: AIS, Grid scheduling, Meta-heuristics, T cells 
 
I.    INTRODUCTION 
 
Grid computing is developed for satisfying the increasing 
demand of large-scale computing community for more 
computing power [8]. There are many highly challenging 
applications are distributed on a large-scale network such as 
computational clusters, data storage sites and scientific 
instruments. Recently, several proposals have been made to 
extend the concept for supporting consumer-oriented grid 
applications [13]. Grid computing is still in the development 
stage, and many large-scale applications are known from 
computational optimization [6], [7], and [9]. 
Scheduling is a very important mechanism for the majority 
of grid systems. The grid scheduling architecture research 
group of the open grid forum in [14] provides different grid 
scheduling use case scenarios and describes common usage 
patterns. The most complicated scenario is scheduling tasks 
requesting more than one service guarantees. In this research, 
each task consists of sequential subtasks and then subtasks 
will be arranged to suitable machines. The subtasks are 
restricted to the processing sequence, so it can be figured with 
Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG) [4].  
Recently, a lot of heuristics based on List Scheduling are 
developed ([3], [18], and [19]); the basic principle of these 
heuristics is deciding the processing sequence of each subtask 
first and then allocates each subtask with highest priority to 
suitable and feasible machines. For solving this NP-Complete 
problem, Genetic Algorithm (GA) [5], Artificial Immune 
System (AIS) [3] and some other meta-heuristics may be the 
useful methods in literatures.  
From literature survey, many AIS only introduce clone 
selection operator like B cell in immune function, but the T 
cell is not discussed and developed well. In this research, we 
want to develop a more complete AIS based on B cell (clone 
selection) in major and T cell (helper and suppressor) in minor. 
A two-stage approach is applied using B cell as a basis and 
then T cell is employed next. T helper cell is used to help 
improving the solution and then T suppressor cell is generated 
to increase the diversity of the population. 
The rest of this paper is organized as follows: the related 
literatures will be surveyed in Section 2. The discussed grid 
scheduling problem is formulated in Section 3. Section 4 
describes the design and implementation of the proposed two-
stage AIS. And the relevant computational results are provided 
in Section 5. Finally, some concluding remarks and future 
works are given in Section 6. 
 
II.    LITERATURES REVIEW 
 
During the last decade, based on principles of the immune 
system, a new computational intelligence approach, called 
artificial immune system (AIS), has been developed. When 
compared to artificial neural networks, GAs, fuzzy systems, 
although AIS is still in its infancy, it has been successfully 
applied to many fields such as clustering, classification, 
pattern recognition, computer defense, optimization, and 
others ([1], [10], and [15]). 
If ij  and kj  are processed by the same processing element, 
the communication time is less than processed by different 
elements. Therefore, we set 0),,,( =vuki ppjjcomm  when 
vu pp = . 
We have to defined the capability of each element as 
)( upcp . That means the unit work processing time on 
processing element up  is defined as follows. 
 
)()(),( uiui pcpjloadpjcomp ∗=  (2)
 
The total completion time (Makespan, Cmax ) is the 
performance measurer in this research. Here, )( kjPE  means 
the processing element of job kj . And the completion time of 
job kj  is defined as follows. 
 
)))(),(,,(
))(,()((max)(
)(
kiki
iiijJjk
jPEjPEjjcomm
jPEjcompjfinishjfinish
kpredi
+
+=
∈∀ (3)
 
And we can further define the objective function of this 
study as 
 
nkjfinishMinimize k ,...,2,1),( =  (4)
 
IV. THE DEVELOPMENT OF TWO-STAGE AIS 
 
Based on the characters of GA and AIS, two-stage AIS for 
solving parallel production scheduling problem is developed 
in this study. Two-stage approach is applied using B cell as a 
basis and then T cell is employed next. T helper cell is used to 
help improving the solution and then T suppressor cell is 
generated to increase the diversity of the population. This 
method can improve the traditional GA for changing the 
survival function. That means not only obtaining good 
chromosomes but also bad ones (with good vitality). Therefore, 
this proposed method may avoid falling into the local optimal. 
Figure 2 shows the flowchart of two-stage AIS. The detailed 
processes of the two-stage AIS are introduced in the following. 
The affinity of this two-stage AIS 
The similarity between different chromosomes will be the 
affinity of this proposed method. The completion time 
difference between different chromosomes for each job is the 
major element of affinity function; the affinity function is 
calculated and demonstrated as follows. 
 
kgkiki xx ,,, −=δ  (5)
1
1
,
−
=
⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ ∑= n
k
kiAffinity δ  (6)
 
Where ki ,δ  is the completion time difference between the i-
th antibody and the antigen in the position k  as shown in 
Figure 3. 
 
 
Fig. 2. The flowchart of the proposed two-stage AIS 
 
L L
L L
L L
L L
Ag
iAb
,1iδ ,2iδ ,i nδ
,1gx ,2gx ,g nx
,i nx,2ix,1ix
kgx ,
kix ,
ki ,δ  
Fig. 3. The completion time difference between Ag and Ab for each job 
The procedure of the two-stage AIS 
Step 1. Encoding 
Technically, we have to encode the nodes or feasible 
solutions first. Based on list scheduling, we firstly fix the job 
sequence generated from the DAG, and then we will arrange 
the machines for each job. That means, the machine numbers 
In this paper, we will generate elitepop NN − artificial 
antibodies. The process of generating artificial antibodies is 
shown as figure 6, where the ε  is threshold [0, 1]. 
 
 
Fig. 6. The process of generating artificial antibodies 
 
Step 11. Computer Diversity 
The difference between antigen ( Ag ) and artificial 
antibodies ( AbAc _ ) will use the Euclidean distance to 
compute as follow. 
 
elitepop
n
k
kiki
NNifor
AbAcAgAbAcAgD
−=
∑=
=
,...,2,1
)_,()_,(
1
2
,  (11)
 
Where the kAg  is the completion time of the k-th job of the 
antigen, kiAbAc ,_  means the completion time of the k-th job 
of the i-th artificial antibody. If the Euclidean distance is 
smaller, the artificial antibody is better. In the initial 
generations, we feed the better artificial antibodies (seem as T 
helper cells) into the new antibody group for faster 
convergence. After a few generations, we will take those 
worse artificial antibodies (seem as T suppressor cells) into the 
new antibody group for increasing the diversity. By the way, 
all the T cells will be increased when eliteN  decrease. 
 
Step 12. Generate new antibody group 
New antibodies are generated from elite antibodies and 
those T helper/suppressor cells. 
 
Step 13: Termination 
If the maximum generation is reached, the two-stage AIS is 
terminated. 
 
V. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
In the proposed two-stage AIS for dealing the un-equivalent 
parallel production scheduling problem, the test problems 
come from random DAG. The proposed method will be 
compared with SGA and SA. We generate several instances, 
i.e. number of job (40, 50,…, 150), number of machine (10 
and 20). 
For the proposed two-stage AIS, the parameters are defined 
in table IV. The )( ijload  and ),,,( vuki ppjjcomm  are 
generated with uniform distribution.  
 
TABLE IV 
THE PARAMETERS OF PROPOSED TWO-STAGE AIS 
Number of generations 10000 
Population size 100 
)( ijload  1, 2, …, 10 
),,,( vuki ppjjcomm  1, 2, …, 5 
),( ui pjcomp  1.0, 0.9,…, 0.1 
Threshold of affinity (τ ) The average affinity of current generation 
Threshold of artificial antibody 
(ε ) 0.3 
The generation interval for 
decreasing elite number 150 
The threshold for injecting T 
helper/suppressor cells (λ ) 0.667 
Number of elites 90 
 
The result of each instance in GA, SA, and the proposed 
two-stage AIS are shown in table V. 
 
VI. CONCLUSIONS 
 
The scope of production scheduling problem is widespread. 
When the number of job and machine is increased, the 
complexity will also increase exponentially. In real 
applications, managers desire to solve this kind of problem in 
limited time. However, it is not so optimistic. Therefore, many 
researchers developed meta-heuristic algorithms to deal these 
problems. The AIS is also a general meta-heuristic algorithm, 
but the past researches only focus on the produce artificial B 
cells in Immune System. In this paper, we develop the T 
Helper/Suppressor cells for simulating the Immune System 
more close. 
The two-stage AIS include two parts for representing the 
real immune system. In the first stage, clone selection 
represents the function of B cells. In the second stage, two-
step mutation will adopted as the function of T 
helper/suppressor cells. In the initial generations, we feed the 
better artificial antibodies (seem as T helper cells) into the 
new antibody group for faster convergence. After a few 
generations, we will take those worse artificial antibodies 
(seem as T suppressor cells) into the new antibody group for 
increasing the diversity. By observing the experimental results, 
the two-stage AIS is easier to jump out the local optimal so the 
performance is better than other meta-heuristic algorithms i.e. 
GA and GA.  
This research focus on solving the grid scheduling problem 
and the instances are generated from random DAG. 
Comparing with GA and SA, the performance of the proposed 
two-stage AIS is outstanding than others. That represents this 
method is very suitable for grid scheduling problems. 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/12
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫一:開發基於先導知識之混合模式於知識萃取之研究-以醫療預測與股
市預測為例(I)
計畫主持人: 劉鎮豪
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-424-003- 學門領域: 資訊系統
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
