2 
 
 
Intrusion Detection Systems Adapted from Agent-based 
Artificial Immune Systems
1
 
1. Introduction 
Most AIS researches focus on the development of specialized AIS algorithms inspired by theories such 
as the negative selection theory or the danger theory. Applying AIS algorithm to IDS can be traced back to 
[1]. Forrest et al. [3] proposed an instance of computer immunology to protect the computer systems using 
the principles of human immune systems. Gu et al. [8] proposed an architecture of combining multiagent 
systems and dendritic cells. 
Greensmith et al. [6] employed dendritic cells (DCs) within AIS which coordinate T-cell immune 
responses. Kim et al. [10] proposed "CARDINAL" which embedded T-cell process within the 
danger-theory-based AIS. Greensmith et al. [6][7] proposed the Dendritic Cell Algorithm (DCA) whose 
purpose is to correlate data in the form of antigens and signals, then to identify groups of antigens as normal 
or anomalous. 
DCA achieves such missions through a generation of an anomaly coefficients, namely, mature context 
antigen value (MCAV). It is believed that a DC is better performed by agent technology while considering 
its adoption to network environment. This antigen-plus-context information is passed on to a class of 
responder cells, termed T-cells. DCs are natural intrusion detection agents, which monitor the host tissue for 
evidence of cell damage. DC agents in our agent-based intrusion detection system (ABIDS) will evaluate 
antigens and corresponding signals according to DCA to determine whether antigens are malicious nor not. 
For information security, one important aspect learned from immunology is the following: a computer 
security system should protect a host or network of hosts from unauthorized intruders, which is analogous in 
functionality to the immune system protecting the body from invasions by foreign pathogens. For example, 
anti-virus software has recently adopted some features analogous to the innate immune system, which can 
detect malicious patterns. However, most commercial products do not yet have the adaptive immune 
system's ability to address novel threats. The motivation of this research is the following. Can agent-based 
information security systems learn itself to effectively determine whether the abnormality is "actually" 
incurred by some malicious attacks? This paradigm is very similar to the danger theory proposed in the 
immunology [12].  
 
2. Background 
2.1 Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS) 
The main goal of IDSs is to detect unauthorized use, misuse and abuse of computer systems by both 
systems insiders and external intruders. It can be a device or software application that monitors network 
and/or system activities for malicious activities or policy violations and produces reports to a Management 
Station. A host-based intrusion detection system (HIDS) consists of an agent on a host that identifies 
                                                 
1
 全文投稿到 AAMAS 2011 (至 2010/10/25 仍審查中)，本報告摘錄研究成果 
4 
 
Danger signals are generated by ordinary cells of the body that have been injured due to attacks by 
pathogens. These signals are detected by DCs. There are three modes of operation: immature, semi-mature 
and mature. In the DC's immature state, it collects antigens along with safe and danger signals from its local 
environment. DC is able to integrate these signals to decide whether the environment is safe or dangerous. If 
it is safe, DC becomes semi-mature. Upon presenting antigens to T-cells, DC will cause T-cells tolerance. If 
it is dangerous, DC becomes mature and causes the T-cells to become reactive on antigen-presentations. 
 
3. Intrusion Detection Mechanism based on ABAIS 
We propose improved IDS based on ABAIS, or ABIDS in short. Different from traditional self-nonself 
paradigm for immune systems, our IDS will first detect danger signals emitted by computer hosts. These 
danger signals are based on some security threat profile, which defines by system calls generated by running 
processes. According to [11][13], threat profile may be composed of excessive CPU, memory load at the 
host, bandwidth saturation, high connection number of the host, etc.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. Architecture of ABIDS 
3.1 Intelligent Agents in AIS 
3.1.1 Antigen Agent (Ag Agent) 
Antigen agents, which are installed at computer hosts, represent data item from the nonself dataset. 
They extract and record selected attributes from these data items. According to the agent-based DCA 
(ABDCA) which will be described later, each Ag agent sends corresponding DC agent a picked message 
when a nonself antigen appears. 
3.1.2 Dendritic Cell agent (DC agent) 
In order to determine whether a malicious behavior is taking place, ABIDS needs to analyze antigens. 
DC agents are the kernel of the ABAIS which are complex compared to other agents; they are installed and 
distributed at each computer hosts. When an Ag agent issues a picked signal, corresponding DC agent will 
6 
 
Three temporary output signals are PAMP signal, danger signal and safe signal. According to 
Greensmith et al. [5], the system should respond with a very high rate of false positives by switching the 
PAMP and safe signal. The definitions of PAMP, danger and safe signals, by way of parameters of computer 
hosts such as CPU usage, memory load, network connection (number) and bandwidth saturation, are as 
follows. 
 PAMP Signal: Network Connection > th_netconnection AND bandwidth Saturation > 
th_bandsaturation. 
 Danger Signal: CPU Usage > th_cpuload OR Memory Load > th_memoryload. 
 Safe Signal: All parameters < th_parameter. 
 
Where "th_parameter" represents the threshold value of the parameter. Now the computation of output 
signals by three temporary output values is the following. 
SDP
SSDDPP
WWW
CWCWCW
=aloutputsign


 
According to empirical experiments \cite{greensmith}, the weights for this output signal is 2=WP , 1=WD ,
1=WS .  PAMP signal will decide whether the danger signal will be a "really" harmful one.  
 
3.3 Algorithm: Agent-based IDS 
Now according to ABDCA, we propose an algorithm describing agent-based IDS. This algorithm is 
also illustrated as Fig. 2. ABDCA can provide information not only a network packet but also a group of 
network packets is anomalous or not. This is achieved by the generation of an anomaly coefficient value, 
namely MCAV. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2 Diagrammatic Illustration of Agent-based intrusion detection system. 
 
 
 
 
8 
 
4 Simulation 
4.1 Malicious Behaviors determined by ABDCA 
According to essence of the danger theory, the advantage of ABIDS is the following: it can determine some 
nonself-antigenic behavior which is at the verge of normality and abnormality; for example, for those 
network behaviors with short attacking times. In this section, we simulate several critical cases for this 
ABIDS. The threshold of S, C and T are the following 5.0thS , 5.0thC and 5.0thT . The number of 
computer hosts within this network is 2000. Each host has its fixed vector of weights. Simulation principle is 
to determine those critical behaviors, which include one extremely high factor with other low factors, or 
some factors are closing to the corresponding threshold values. 
4.1.1 Nonself Antigen with High Severity, Low Certainty and Short Attacking Time 
While an antigen intrudes a computer host with behaviors of high severity but low certainty and short 
attacking time, it is difficult sometimes to determine if this is a malicious attack. In this case, we consider 
the threat profile TP=[0.9,0.01,0.01] for the ABDCA algorithm. 
 
Fig.3  Average MCAV for an Antigen with High Severity 
We expect the simulation should be "stable" for reasonable many hosts as Fig. 3. MCAV is around 0.03 
and 0.05, which shows that this nonself antigen is normal. 
 
4.2 Simulation of TC Agents' Coordination 
We consider three computer hosts with TC agents’ interactions. TC1, TC2 and TC3 are informing each 
other for confirmed attack from the corresponding antigen see Fig. 4.  
 
4 Conclusions 
We propose a multiagent-based intrusion detection system. The intelligence behind such system is 
based on the danger theory of human immune systems. In particular computations of danger values with 
dynamic thresholds will reduce the false positive rate of danger signals issued by computer hosts. Three 
agents, namely, Ag agent, DC agent and TC agents are coordinated to exchange information of intrusion 
10 
 
[10] Kim. An Artificial Immune System Architecture for Computer Security Applications, John Wiley and 
Sons, New York, 1978. 
[11] J. Kim. Integrating artificial immune algorithms for intrusion detection. Ph. D thesis, University 
College London, 2002. 
[12] P. Matzinger. Tolarance, danger and the extended family. Annual Review in Immunology, 12:991–1045, 
1994. 
[13] K.-W. Yeom and J.-H. Park. An artificial immune system model for multi agents based resource 
discovery in distributed environments. In Proceedings of the First International Conference on 
Innovative Computing, Information and Control, pages 234–239, 2006. 
[14] J. Zhang and Y. Liang. Integrating innate and adaptive immunity for worm detection. In Proceedings 
the Second International Workshop on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, pages 693–696, 2009. 
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
研討會論文 5 3 70% 
1. Adaptive 
Immunity-based 
Multiagent 
Systems (AIBMAS) 
Inspired by the 
Idiotypic 
Network, Lecture 
Notes in 
Artificial 
Intelligence, 
No. 6086, p. 
466-475 (EI) 
2. Agent-based 
Immunity for 
Computer Virus: 
Abstraction from 
Dendritic Cell 
Algorithm with 
Danger Theory, 
Lecture Notes in 
Computer 
Sciences No. 
6104, p. 
670-678. 
Springer, 
Heidelberg 
(2010) (EI) 
3. Immune Memory 
Mechanism based 
on Cyclic 
Idiotypic 
Network, Lecture 
Notes in 
Artificial 
Intelligence, 
Forthcoming (EI)
4. Immune Memory 
Mechanism based 
on Stability 
Analysis of 
Cyclic Idiotypic 
Network, 2010 
IEEE 
International 
Conference on 
Systems, Man, 
and Cybernetics 
(IEEE SMC 2010) 
(EI)  
5. Adaptation of 
Agent-based 
Non-Repudiation 
 
