2摘要
藍芽是一種主要支援短距離無線傳輸的技術，藍芽裝置大都是可攜式與由電池驅動的，所
以在藍芽網路中散網路徑的存活度便成為一個重要的問題。在藍芽網路中散網的存活度依
靠的不僅是電池殘留電力還有藍芽裝置在路由上的移動性.我們以電池殘留電力還有藍芽
裝置在路由上的移動性來定義藍芽路徑的存活度，並提出一個品質測度,稱為藍芽裝置 Q
值。藍芽裝置的Q值將被用來計算裝置在散網路由的存活度的影響，進一步地我們提出三
個可以提高存活散網路由的方法，並對我們提出的方法以模擬來評估驗證三個方法的效能
及討論其特性。
關鍵詞: 存活度、藍芽、散網、路由。
Abstract
Bluetooth is a promising short-range wireless communication technology. Since most of the
Bluetooth devices are portable and battery-driven, the survivability of a scatternet route in
Bluetooth networks is becoming a crucial issue. The survivability of a scatternet route in the
Bluetooth network depends on not only the residual energy of the battery of the Bluetooth device
but also the mobility of the Bluetooth devices on the route. We define the survivability of a route
on basis of the energy and mobility of the Bluetooth device. Furthermore, we propose a quality
measure, Q -value, for the Bluetooth device. The Q -value of a Bluetooth device can be used to
evaluate the impact of a device onto the survivability of a scatternet route. Then, we propose
three approaches that can establish highly survivable scatternet routes. We conduct simulation
study to evaluate the performance of the three approaches.
Keywords: survivability, Bluetooth, scatternet, routing.
42.2 QUALITY MEASURE
We propose a quality measure, Q value, for Bluetooth devices, which are with two internal
parameters, residual energy of the battery and mobility .The Q -value of a Bluetooth device can
be used to evaluate the contribution of the device to the survivability of a scatternet route. Then,
we analyze the survivability issues of the scatternet route and propose three approaches that can
establish highly survivable scatternet routes. The following notations are used for defining the
quality measure.
:iE residual energy of in
:ie energy consuming by node in per second

i
i
i e
E
nT  : lifetime of in (1)

 
 10,
)(max
)(
1


im
j
j
i
i nLwhere
nT
nT
nL : the normalized lifetime of in (2)
:inM mobility of in , where  10  inM
  :
2
)(1)( ii
i
nMnL
nq
 quality measure of in (3)
r
ji
k
j
i nr ,
1
 : i -th route in scatternet
:,
r
jin the j -th node on the i -th route in scatternet kj ...1; 
:
ir
Q Quality measure of i -th route in scatternet, where pi ...1
piQ
p
Q
ir
p
i
...1;
1 min
1
min  

(4)
},|{
minminmin RrQQsatisfiesrrR xrxx x 
When the destination device receives the Route Discovery Protocol (RDP) packets from
source through alternative routes, we describe the set of these routes as follows.
pp rrrrrrR ,...,,};,...,,{ 2121
Then, how can we select a route from R to establish a highly survivable route for data
transmission is an issue for our study. We present the proposed approaches as follows.
3. APPROACHES FOR ESTABLISHING SURVIVABLE ROUTES
We describe the proposed approaches that can establish highly survivable scatternet routes as
follows.
6back to the source device along the route. The pseudo-code of the MMinQ approach is shown in
Fig. 1(a).
3.2 MAvgQ APPROACH
Moreover, we propose the MAvgQ approach that selects the route with the average q -value
of all devices on the route to be greater than the corresponding values of the other routes. The
destination node may receive multiple RDP packets from the source node and then calculates the
average q -value of all devices on a route. Thereafter, the destination node chooses the route that
has the maximum average q -value from the routes. And, the destination node replies a RRP
packet back to the source node along the selected route. We define the parameter
avg
ir
Q
as
follows.



k
1j
avg )Q(n
k
1
Q ri,jri kj ...1;  (6)
Then, the pseudo-code of the MAvgQ approach is shown in Fig. 1(b).
3.3 HybridQ APPROACH
We propose the HybridQ approach that combines both of the MMinQ approach and the
MAvgQ approach. We define the following notations.
piQ
p
Q
p
i
ri ...1;
1
1
minmin  
 (7)
},|{
minminmin RrQQsatisfiesrrR xrxx x 
Where },...,{ 1 prrR is the set of routes from source node to destination node.
The destination node receives multiple RDP packets from source node and calculates the
min
irQ
for each route in R . Then, it further figures out the value of
min
Q and finds the set of routes that
belong to minR . Finally, the approach selects a route from minR according to the MAvgQ
approach. Then, the destination node replies a RRP packet back to the source node along the
selected route. Figure 1(c) shows the HybridQ approach.
3.4 PARTIALLY DISJOINT ROUTES FOR BACKUP ROUTES
In this paper, we also propose an approach that establishes partially disjoint routes to be the
backup route for an existing routefor further improving the survivability of a route. We refer to
the proposed approach as PDR approach, and discuss the PDR approach as follows. The PDR
approach consists of three procedures:
8movement, the node has to send out a route error (RERR) packet back toward the source node
to stop data transmission at the source node. Moreover, when the route disconnection occurs
and is detected by the downstream node, the downstream node also sends out a RERR packet
to the destination node. When a node that is on the route receives an RERR packet from its
upstream, it sets a timer ( sT ) and waits for the route request confirmation (RRC) packet from
its downstream [12]. If no RRC packet is received after time period sT , it would release the
network resource that is reserved for this route. After transmitting the RERR packet, the node
that is the upstream node of the moved node will look up the cache of routing table that
records backup routes and selects one of the backup routes in which the moved node is not
on-route node. We illustrate the PDR approach in Fig. 2.
4. SIMULATION STUDY
4.1 SIMULATION ASSUMPTIONS
In order to compare and evaluate performances of the three methods ( MMinQ , MAvgQ
and HybridQ ) in Bluetooth network, we make the following assumptions for our simulation study.
(i)We suppose that the device only moves out and does not move in the Bluetooth scatternet
during the route establishing and restoration. (ii) Each device in the scatternet is with the different
mobility and power consumption of Q -value. (iii) We conduct the simulation study on both of
the regular Bluetooth scatternet and irregular Bluetooth scatternet. (iv) We assume that the
Q -value of Bluetooth device is between 0.2 to 0.9 and the power consumption is between 0.19 to
0.01on the regular Bluetooth scatternet. The number of Bluetooth devices on a route is from 4 to
10. Each simulation is conducted randomly for 10000 times, and total number of routes in the
scatternet is 50. (v) All nodes are in radio visibility of each other in an area of 40m×40m square
area for the irregular Bluetooth scatternet, so that the route length may vary. We assume that the
Q -value of the Bluetooth device is random number from 0.1 to 0.9. (vi) We conduct the
simulation experiments for the PDR approach on a regular Bluetooth scatternet as shown in
Fig.10. And, we conduct simulation experiments on scatternets with different sizes, 33 , 43 ,
53 , 35 , 45 and 55 piconets.
4.2 SIMULATION RESULTS
(a) Comparison of three approaches: Figure 3(a) shows the lifetime of the four approaches with
respect to the length of the route in terms of number of nodes. The MMinQ approach has the
largest average of route lifetime, and the approach of randomly selecting has the worst
performance. Thus, the proposed three approaches can improve the route lifetime with the
computing overhead at destination, which selects the route according to the three approaches.
(b) Computing overhead of the approaches: The computing overhead of the MAvgQ approach is
more complex than those of the other methods as shown in Fig. 3(b).
10
among the different scatternets. On the other hand, the PDR approach has the worst
performance on a small scatternet with the size of 3x3 piconets. It is nature that a larger
scatternet has more possible backup routes. Thus, the PDR approach performs well on a large
scatternet.
5. SUMMARY
Since most of the Bluetooth devices are portable, the users may carry the Bluetooth devices
and roam in a scatternet. Thus, the survivability of a scatternet route is crucial to constructing a
survivable Bluetooth network. The survivability of a scatternet route depends on not only the
residual energy of the battery of the Bluetooth device but also the mobility of the Bluetooth
devices on the route. In this paper, we define a quality measure, q value, to evaluate the
contribution of a Bluetooth device to the survivability of a route. We propose three approaches,
MMinQ, MAvgQ, and HybridQ, that can establish highly survivable scatternet route with the
penalty of computing overhead. Moreover, we discuss the effect of the movement of a device on
a route and propose a local rerouting mechanism to resolve the device movement during route
establishment. After creating the route, data transmission may be interrupted due to any on-route
node moving out of the piconet. Thus, we propose a partially disjoint route to construct backup
routes for an existing route. To validate and evaluate the proposed approaches, we conduct
simulation experiments and discuss the simulation results.
REFERENCES
1. The Bluetooth SIG, The Bluetooth Core and Specifications, the Bluetooth SIG, v1.2,
http://www.bluetooth.com
2. Chorng-Horng Yang, Jian-Wei Ruan, and Chia-Wen Wang (2006), “Rerouting and 
Restoration of Scaternet Routes for Survivable Bluetooth Networks”, in Proc. Of the 3rd 
3rd IEEE VTS Asia Pacific Wireless Communications Symposium (APWCS ‘06), August 
24-25, 2006. The 3rd IEEE VTS Asia Pacific Wireless Communications
3. Chorng-Horng Yang and Yi-Sheng Chen(2005), “Bluetooth scaterent formation for 
supporting device mobility”, in Proc. of the 3rd International Conference on Information 
Technology Research and Education (ITRE ‘05), June, 27-30, 2005
4. C.-H. Yang, Y.-S. Chen, J.-W. Ruan, and W.-P. Ho(2004), “A Mobility Model for Bluetooth 
Scaternets in Wireless Personal Area Networks,” in Proc. Int’l Conf. on Wireless Networks 
(WNET 2004), pp. 140-143, June, 2004.
5. Chorng-Horng Yang and Jian-Wei Ruan (2005), “On-demand Routing for Bluetooth
Scatternet Subject to Device Mobility,” in Proc. of the First Internation Workshop on 
Information Networking and Application （INA’2005, March,2005 
6. F.Cuomo, T.Melodia, and I.F.Akyildiz (2004), “Distributed self-healing and variable
topology optimization algorithms for QoS provisioning in scaternets,” inIEEE J. of
Commu. on Sel. Areas, vol. 22 , pp.1220 - 1236, Sept. 2004
