行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
■ 成 果 報 告   
□期中進度報告 
 
碳奈米線圈之機械性質與動態行為之研究 
 
計畫類別：■ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC  100 － 2221 － E － 239 － 011 
執行期間：2011 年 8 月 1 日至 2011 年 7 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：林振森 教授 
共同主持人：  
計畫參與人員： 翁盟雄、陳明璋 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、列
管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位： 
 
中   華   民   國   101  年  8  月   14  日 
 2 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Nanotubes have attracted great interests in recent years, because they have broad applications in 
different areas. Especially, carbon nanocoils (CNCs) are most particular in carbon nanotubes 
structure due to their 3D helical materials. Because of the unique 3D structure coiled from carbon 
nanotubes, CNCs have potential applications in many areas. So far, there are many researchers 
study in the CNCs properties, and they have found that many of the outstanding properties such as 
unique mechanical properties including high tensile strength [1], superelasticity [2], good 
conductivity [3] ,and high stability of ﬁeld emission[4].  In addition, these results  suggest that 
the carbon nanocoils have a higher eﬃciency of ﬁeld emission than the carbon nanotubes and 
would be a type of superior ﬁeld-emitter material.  Since carbon nanocoils have the superior 
mechanical and electric properties, they have great potential applications in the nanomechanical and 
electromagnetic device components, such as rotational actuators [5], nanospring[6], oscillators [7], 
microwave absorption [8], nano elastic memory [9].  Motojima et al [10] studied the electrical 
conductivity of nanotubes by a four-probe measurement at room temperature, and find that the 
current–voltage characteristic has a linear relation which indicates that the electrical conduction is 
ohmic in a CNCs.  Nanlin Wang et al [11] further studied and found CNCs significant linear 
relationship between temperature and Resistance.  Motojima et al [12] found that inductance and 
capacitance extensively changed with extending and contracting motions, and that CNCs could be 
used as high sensitive tactile sensors [13]. 
In this study, we conduct molecular simulations to study the deformation behavior of carbon 
atoms of  (10,10)@(5,5) double-walled nanocoil and (10,10) single-walled nanocoil structure 
during tension procedure. Moreover, the variations of structure and stress-strain profiles are also 
discussed. 
 
2. SIMULATION AND MODELING 
 
In this simulation, molecular dynamics is adopted and employed second-generation reactive 
empirical bond order (REBO) potential [14] to simulate the interatomic force between the carbon 
atoms. The second-generation REBO potential is based on an empirical bond order formalism, and 
the potential form is 
 


i ijj
ijAijijRb rVbrVE
)(
)()(                                            (1) 
where VR(rij) is the pairwise term that models core-core and electron-electron repulsive interactions, 
bijVA(rij) is a pairwise term that models core-electron attractive interactions, rij is the distance 
 4 
 
under axial tensile loading processes.  Figure 2 shows the stress-strain relationship of (10, 10)@(5, 
5) double-walled nanocoil and corresponding morphologies at certain strains.  The Young’s 
modulus of the nanocoil is estimated the slope of stress-strain curve at strain 0.2%.  The results 
show that the Young’s modulus of (10, 10)@(5, 5) double-walled nanocoil is 27.18 Gpa, and the 
maximunm stress is 319 Gpa under tensile process.  The elongation deformation morphology at 
certain strain are shown in Fig. 2 (b).  It is found that the nanocoil is pulled straight at first stage. 
At this stage, the coil also slight rotate, which cause the coil cross-section area not uniform. 
Increase the strain, the stress will be increased rapidly until to the maximum stress.  Across the 
maximum stress, the stress suddenly drop.  Near center part of the coil shrunk looks like necking.  
It is worth to note that the inner tube of the double-walled nanocoil will break first before the coil 
breakdown. We also observe that the destruction of the nanocoils generally begin with heptagon 
defect. 
The nanocoil also performs superelastic characteristic.  Figure 2 shows the variation of 
carbon bond length under elongation.  Without bond broken down, we apply the stains up to 180% 
on the (10, 10)@(5, 5) double-walled nanocoil and (10, 10) single-walled nanocoil. The C-C bond 
change very little compare to unstrained state. The average bond length variation is less than 1.7% 
for (10, 10) CNC, and less than 1.3% for (10, 10)@(5, 5) CNC. These results show that the average 
C-C bond length is firm enough under tensile loading.  
Figure 4 shows the bond angle distribution for (10, 10)@(5, 5) CNC under different stains. At 
unstrained state, although pentagon defects and heptagon defects exist, they are occupied small ratio 
than hexagon structure. The bond angle distribution only have one peak at 120°.  Increasing the 
strain, the bond angle distribution have no other peaks appear obviously, but the band of distribution 
become broader.  Owing to the average C-C bond length is firm enough under loading, the bond 
angles will change to maintain the bond lengths. 
 
 
4. CONCLUSIONS  
 
This study has performed molecular dynamics simulations to investigate the mechanical 
properties of double-walled nanocoils. The second reactive empirical bond order (REBO) potential 
is employed to model the interaction between carbon atoms. The results show that the Young’s 
modulus of (10, 10)@(5, 5) double-walled nanocoil is 27.18 Gpa, and the maximunm stress is 319 
Gpa under tensile process. The inner tube of the double-walled nanocoil will break before the coil 
breakdown. During the elongation process, the average C-C bond lengths change very little 
compare to unstrained state, and the bond angles will change to maintain the bond lengths. 
 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1 The structure of (5,5)@(10,10) double-wall carbon nanocoils. The side view is shown left, 
and top view is right. At the top view, pentagon defects (yellow color) at outer region of the 
coil, and heptagon defect (green color) are formed at inner region of the coil. 
 8 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3  Variation of carbons bond length in CNCs under elongation.  
 1
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：2012 年 8 月 15 日 
一、參加會議經過 
該學術研討會邀請國外專家包含美國，日本，澳洲，德國，新加坡，香港，台灣等多國；研討會期間
對奈/微米系統、奈米生醫、奈米材料、微系統整合等多項學術研究進展與動態與工業應用展望進行討
論。論文發表示以口頭報告方式，除報告時間外至各場次聆聽其他作者論文發表，獲益良多。 
二、與會心得 
研討會百餘篇論文發表場次安排在三天的時間內，同時多場次並行，因此議程安排非常緊湊，各場次
會議內容豐富，但分身乏術通常僅能選擇一場聆聽，因此常有遺珠之憾，尤其是對 Plenary speakers
學術演講，留下深刻的印象，希望能為日後在此方面的進一部深入研究的參考。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
參訪北京大學及清華大學 
四、建議 
計畫編號 NSC100－ 2221－ E－239 －011－ 
計畫名稱 碳奈米線圈之機械性質與動態行為之研究 
出國人員
姓名 林振森 
服務機構
及職稱 國立聯合大學機械系 
會議時間 
2011 年 9 月 7 日
至 
2011 年 9 月 9 日 
會議地點 北京 
會議名稱 
(中文)中國奈米國際研討會 
(英文) ChinaNANO 2011, China International Conference on Nanoscience & 
Technology 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)利用 DFT 探討矽團簇的結構穩定性 
(英文) A DFT Study on the structure stability of silica 
nanoclusters 
附件四 
 3
接受函 
 ChinaNANO 2011 
September 7-9, 2011, Beijing, China  
http://www.chinanano.org                                E-mail: chinanano2011@nanoctr.cn
  
Dr. Jenn-Sen Lin  
National United University  
Taiwan,China  
  
  
  
AN ACCEPTANCE LETTER 
  
  
Dear Dr. Jenn-Sen Lin,  
  
On behalf of the Organizing Committee, I am pleased to inform you that your abstract has been
accepted as an ORAL presentation at the ChinaNANO2011 - International Conference on 
Nanoscience & Technology, China 2011 to be held from September 7 to 9, 2011 in Beijing, China. 
The Organizing Committee would like to express our sincere thank to your participation.    
Abstract No: 9O-012    
Abstract Title: A DFT Study on the structure stability of silica nanoclusters  
  
If you need an official invitation letter for visa purpose, please contact Ms. Lili ZHAO, e-mail: 
chinanano2011@nanoctr.cn for further assistance.  
  
Looking forward to seeing you at ChinaNANO2011 in Beijing.  
  
  
Sincerely yours,  
  
  
  
  
  
Xingyu Jiang  
Deputy Secretary-General, ChinaNANO2011  
Professor, National Center for Nanoscience and Technology, China                                 
  
  
International Conference on Nanoscience & Technology, China
June 10, 2011 
 5
 
A DFT Study on the structure stability of silica nanoclusters 
Ken-Huang Lin1, Jenn-Sen Lin2*, Shin-Pon Ju1*, Ching-Fang Tseng3, Cheng-Hsing Hsu3, Hsi-Wen 
Yang4, Kuan-Fu Lin1, Meng-Hsiung Weng1 
1 Department of Mechanical and Electro-Mechanical Engineering, National Sun Yat-sen University, 
Kaohsiung, 804, Taiwan 
 2 Department of Mechanical Engineering, National United University, Miao-Li, 36003, Taiwan 
3 Department of electronic engineering, National United University, Miao-Li, 36003, Taiwan 
4 Department of material engineering, National United University, Miao-Li, 36003, Taiwan 
*Corresponding author (jsenlin@nuu.edu.tw, jushin-pon@mail.nsysu.edu.tw) 
 
Abstract: The studies of silica nanoclusters are of substantial interest for large potential in applications as diverse as 
photonics/optics, microelectronics and catalysis. In this study, we used the basing-hopping method with Buckingham potential to get 
the stable structures of silica nanoclusters ((SiO2)n=1-13). The global minimum geometry of silica nanoclusters were determined by 
density functional theory calculation. We investigated the energy gap, binding energy and second order energy difference of 
nanoclusters to determine their structural stability with different sizes. We also calculate the second-order energy difference, binding 
energy to determine the magic number. 
 
Keywords: Silica, Nanoclusters, Structure stability, DFT, molecular dynamics 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
In recent years, silica material has been extensively applied in nanotechnology [1,2] and biotechnology [3-5]. Due to the 
special characters such as low dielectric constant and light adsorption, silica material applied in nanotechnology widely includes 
microelectronic devices and fiber-optic communications. Because of the extensive application in nanotechnology and biotechnology, 
there have been many experimental [6-8] and theoretical [9,10] studies investigating the physical properties of numerous nano-sized 
silica materials. Especially, the fabrication and study of silica nanoclusters and nanoparticles has received considerable attention in 
recent years due to their promise and potential in applications as diverse as photonics/optics, microelectronics and catalysis. 
Experimentally, Wang et al. [11] obtained silica clusters by laser ablation time-of-fight mass spectrometry from fullerene-doped and 
carbon-doped silica aerogels. The results provided structural evidence for the propsed structure of silica aerogels, and gave a novel 
method to detect the cluster structures of aerogels. Wan et al. [12] reported new biofunction nanoprobes synthesized by the 
simultaneous incorporation of fluorescence dye and magnetite nanoparticle clusters (MFNC) into silica nanoparticles for 
ultra-sensitive glioma detection. Although the steady-state of molecules adsorbed on silica materials and the structural properties of 
silica can be observed by experiment, there are some drawbacks in the experimental process. For example, the mechanisms of the 
molecules adsorbed on silica and the chemical reaction of silica materials are difficult to observe due to the limitations of the 
experimental equipment at this small scale, so numerical methods must be used to retrieve the information beyond the experimental 
limitations.  
   Adopting the quantum calculations, Nayak et al. [13] used density functional theory (DFT) to study the equilibrium geometries, 
binding energies, HOMO-LUMO gap, and vertical and adiabatic electron affinities of silica clusters. The bonding in silica clusters 
 7
The energetically favorable configurations of (SiO2)n (n=1~20) nanoclusters are obtained by using BH method, and then DFT 
theory was employed to optimize the configurations from BH method to get the most stable geometries with different sizes of silica 
nanoclusters. In order to obtain the magic number of silica nanocluster, the  second-order energy difference were determined. The 
Dmol3 package [23,24] was used in the density functional theory calculation. In the electronic calculation, all electron treatment and 
double numerical basis including p-polarization function (DNP) were chosen. The exchange-correlation interaction was treated 
within the generalized gradient approximation (GGA) [25] using Perdew-Wang expression for exchange and the Becke form for 
correlation (BP potential) [26]. During the geometry optimization process, the convergent conditions were set as 0.002 Hatree/Ǻ for 
the forces, 0.005 Hatree/Ǻ for the atomic displacement, and 10-5 Hatree for the energy change.  
3. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
    In this study, density functional theory and molecular dynamics simulation were employed to investigate the size effect on the 
structural stability of silica nanoclusters. Initially, the BH method was used to obtain the 25 lowest energy structures, and structural 
refinement with DFT theory was employed to optimize the configurations from BH method to get the most stable geometries with 
different sizes of silica nanoclusters. The resulting set of (SiO2)n (n=1~20) ground state clusters are shown in Figure 1. The red and 
yellow balls indicate the oxygen and silicon atoms, respectively. In Fig. 1, the (SiO2)n ground states for n=2~6 show regular linear 
chain growth based on two-membered rings (2MR). The ground states clusters (SiO2)n for n=7~9 are based around a common 
structural motif built upon four connected three-membered rings (3MR), which is most clearly and symmetrically exhibited for the 
n=8 global minimum cluster is indicative of its particular energetic stability. For n＞9 until n=13, the clusters continue to be based 
mainly on three-membered rings as shown in Fig. 1. In the case of n＞13 until n=17, the global minimum clusters form columnar 
structures based upon four-membered rings(4MR). The binding energies of global (SiO2)n (n=1~20) ground state clusters are 
calculated in this study. The binding energies Binding energy as a function of (SiO2)n (n=1~20) are shown in Fig 2. It can be seen 
that the binding energy of silica nanocluster increases with the increase of nanoclusters size. The second-order energy difference 
(Δ2E) is also discussed in the present study. The parameter is useful to exam the relative stability of (SiO2)n nanocluster with respect 
to (SiO2)n+1 and (SiO2)n-1. This parameter is expressed as  
Δ2E(n)=[E(n-1)+E(n+1)−2E(n)]                                                    (3) 
where E(n) is the total energy of silica nanocluster with n SiO2 monomers. A larger value (positive) of Δ2E indicates a greater 
stability, whereas a negative value means that an exchange of a monomer is favorable between like pairs and leads to the depletion 
of clusters of size n. Figure 2 shows the profile of Δ2E(n) as a function of the monomer number n. The results reveal that the peaks 
with positive Δ2E values for n=6, 8, 11, 13, and 17 indicate the silica nanocluster formed by these magic numbers display 
relatively higher structural stability than other nanoclusters.  
 
4. CONCLUSIONS 
 
    In the present study, density functional theory and molecular dynamics simulation were employed to investigate the size effect 
on the structural stability of silica nanoclusters. Initially, the BH method was used to obtain the 25 lowest energy structures, and 
structural refinement with DFT theory was employed to optimize the configurations from BH method to get the most stable 
geometries with different sizes of silica nanoclusters. The (SiO2)n ground states for n=2~6 show regular linear chain growth based 
on two-membered rings. The ground states clusters (SiO2)n for n=7~9 are based around a common structural motif built upon four 
connected three-membered rings. For n＞9 until n=13, the clusters continue to be based mainly on three-membered rings. In the 
case of n＞13 until n=17, the global minimum clusters form columnar structures based upon four-membered rings. The 
second-order energy difference (Δ2E) is to exam the relative stability of (SiO2)n nanocluster with respect to (SiO2)n+1 and (SiO2)n-1. 
 9
 
Table and figure caption 
Table 1 FBm parameter 
Figure 1 Ground state clusters of (SiO2)n (n=1~20). 
Figure 2 Binding energy as a function of the monomer number n. 
Figure 3 Profile of Δ2E(n) as a function of the monomer number n. 
 11
 
Figure 1 Ground state clusters of (SiO2)n (n=1~20). 
 13
 
Figure 3 Profile of Δ2E(n) as a function of the monomer number n. 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/09/10
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 碳奈米線圈之機械性質與動態行為之研究
計畫主持人: 林振森
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-239-011- 學門領域: 其他–機械工程技術
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
