1摘要
摩擦是金屬成形製程系統中一個重要的參數，一般採用固定摩擦係數之模式或磨潤模
式作為模擬依據。固定摩擦係數模式之數學形式簡單，但未考慮接觸介面之工件表面鋒
(surface asperity)隨製程變化之事實，而磨潤模式雖已有考慮表面鋒變化之文獻發表，但其
數學形式較複雜，仍無法廣泛應用於一般的金屬成形模擬分析中。因此，本計畫提出一個
以接觸介面孔隙率(porosity)與崔斯卡摩擦模式(Tresca friction model)結合之新的摩擦模式。
此模式乃以工件表面微結構變化為考量，利用工件表面存在表面鋒，且於接觸介面為非完
全壓平之事實，以多孔性材料受力之方式處理，計算接觸介面孔隙率隨金屬成形製程之塑
性變形（更嚴格來說也需包含彈性變形）而發生變化之現象，以孔隙率變化來表示表面鋒
與粗糙度之變化，並將孔隙率導入摩擦模式，用於金屬成形模擬。
本計畫以圓環壓縮試驗 (ring compression test)與雙邊反向擠出 (double-backward
extrusion) 測驗探討摩擦效應與表面粗糙度之關係。利用多孔性材料(porous materials)之降
服準則，推導工件與模具接觸介面之孔隙率與表面粗糙度之關係，將孔隙率之變化導入修
改的崔斯卡摩擦模式(modified Tresca friction model)，植入以 C++電腦程式語言撰寫的平面
應變有限元素分析程式，並與實驗結果進行比較。結果顯示所提出之模式可以用於模擬金
屬成形接觸介面之摩擦摩效應。
總之本計畫以新的方法處理金屬成形介面摩擦之問題，並以實驗驗證所提模式之可行
性，不僅可用於一般之金屬成形模擬，且因為以微結構變化為模式推導之基礎，亦可應用
於微尺度之成形模擬。經由理論與實驗之研究，對於如何處理其他工程問題中之介面摩擦
效應也有進一步的貢獻。
關鍵詞：金屬成形、摩擦、表面鋒、孔隙率
Abstract
A new method based on the porosity of the contact interface is proposed to modify the
Tresca friction model for the use in metal forming simulation. The method is based on the
consideration of the shape change of contact surface at the microscale and the incomplete filling
at the contact interface due to exist of surface asperities. During metal forming process, the
surface asperities are being altered and mostly flattened because of the plastic deformation and
fracture. The surface roughness and friction conditions are thus being changed. This change can
be directly related to the porosity at the contact interface. By using the stress conditions at the
surface and the yield criteria for a porous material, it is possible to predict the porosity change
near the contact region. The predicted porosity is then applied to describe the roughness and thus
the friction conditions at the workpiece-die interface in metal forming process.
To determine the friction factors under different surface roughness conditions, ring
compression tests and double-backward extrusion tests were performed to obtain a set of
calibration curves and the relationship among the porosity at the contact interface, the surface
roughness and the friction effect in metal formation process. A new friction model modified from
Tresca friction law was then formulated with the porosity to deal with the friction effects. The
model was implemented into a developed computer program for the simulation of plane strain
3are needed. Lo and Tai [13] preformed some experiments for the deformation of the surface
asperity and found that the elastic microwedges on the tools surface plays an important role on
the variation of the contact ratio which influences the friction effects significantly. In addition,
Stupkiew and Mroz [14] proposed an asperity flattening model based on bulk plastic straining but
its relations with friction has not been established.
The above literature reviews show that the surface asperities of the workpiece are flattened,
thus the contact ratio increases and the surface roughness decreases at the workpiece-die interface
during metal forming process. The change of the asperities also affects lubrication regime.
Moreover, Doege et al.[15] proposed a yield criterion for porous material to predict the surface
roughness of the deformed workpiece and performed some experiments to show the usability of
the criterion.
This study is enlightened by the Doege’s study on the porosity of the contact interface. A
newly formulated Tresca-based friction model based on the variation of the porosity is proposed
and implemented into an in-house plane strain finite element program for the simulation of metal
forming process. Experiments including ring compression tests, double backward extrusion tests
and plane strain compression tests are carried out to study the relationship between roughness and
friction, and also to assess the usability of the proposed friction model.
2. Friction model
The workpiece-die contact interface at the microscale is shown in Fig. 1. The die and the
workpiece are considered as rigid and deformable bodies, respectively. During the deformation,
the surface asperities of the workpiece are compressed by the dies. Fracture or microwelding
effects could also exist at the contact interface. These phenomena cause the change of the
porosity and thus the contact and friction conditions which affect metal forming processes
significantly.
Doege et al. [15] proposed a model for expressing the relationship between roughness and
porosity. By considering the stress conditions and applying the fracture criterion, it is possible to
predict the porosity and thus roughness during the deformation. This study is enlightened by the
Doege’s research work and proposes a new modeling approach based on the Tresca friction 
Fig. 1. Variation of surface asperities and porosity in metal forming process
(a) Before deformation (b) After deformation
Imaged area of
changing porosity
Surface of die
Surface of workpiece
5The material consistency can be a function of strain hardening, e.g.
nKK )( 00 
where 0K material constant, is the effective strain, n is strain hardening index, and 0is a
small positive constant to avoid the numerical problems.
For the special case with 0m , the rigid-viscoplastic potential tends to the von Mises flow
rule


 
0
3
2s
with 30K , where 0 is the yield stress. The flow rule can be applied to cold metal
forming processes in which the strain rate sensitivity may be not sensitive. It is clear that the
deviatoric stress tensor s takes zero-over-zero indeterminate form if the effective strain rate
trends to zero. The problem is treated by introducing a small constant 0 and the deviatoric
stress tensor is expressed as


 
 2
0
2
0
3
2

s .
The workpiece is assumed as the incompressibility during the forming process. In terms of
the velocity field, the incompressibility condition can be written as
0)( vdiv
where v is the velocity filed. This constraint can be achieved by the Lagrange multiplier method
or the penalty method. In this study, the penalty method is used.
At the contact interface s between the workpiece and the die, the stress and the external
traction T can be expressed as follows:
Tn
where n is the vector of the normal direction of the contact surface. The relative velocity
sv between the workpiece and the die is calculated by
ds vvv 
where dv is the velocity of the die. On the contact interface c , the material point to slide on the
die surface can be written as
0nvs .
This constraint is imposed by the penalty method in this study.
The proposed friction model, , was applied to the modeling of the large deformation of
metal forming with isothermal condition. With the penalty method for dealing with
incompressibility, the energy of a metal forming system, , can be expressed by the following
equation
  vdSTvdSdVvdivdV
m
K
v
s
m
c
   
21 )()3(
1
)( 
where V and S are the volume and the sliding contact interface, respectively.  is an
assigned value for dealing with the incompressible or near incompressible material flows. By
applying the finite element method and minimizing the energy with and the Newton-Raphson
method, the nodal velocity field tV ban be solved. The newly updated nodal position vector
7-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70%
Reduction in height (%)
D
ec
re
as
e
in
in
te
rn
al
di
am
et
er
(%
) Ra=0.5
Ra=0.2
Ra=0.05
a=0
a=0.1
a=0.2
a=0.3
a=0.4
a=0.5
Fig. 3. The calibration curves and measured friction factors for different
surface roughness at the die speed of 1 mm per second
5. Conclusions
A new method based on the porosity of the contact interface is proposed and combined with
the Tresca friction model for the use in metal forming simulation. The method is based on the
consideration of the shape change of contact surface at the microscale and the incomplete filling
at the contact interface due to exist of surface asperities. The proposed method is then used in an
in-house finite element program for the simulation of plane strain forming process. Experiments
including the ring compression test, the double backward extrusion test and the plane strain
compression test are also carried out to investigate the relationship between the roughness and the
friction factor. The results show that the double backward extrusion test might be a better choice
than the ring compression test in the consideration of the sensitivity to the local friction effects.
The comparison between the simulated and the experimental results of plane strain compression
tests show that the proposed friction model based on the porosity can be used to model the
friction effects at the workpiece-die interface in metal forming process.
Acknowledgement
The author wishes to thank the National Kaohsiung University of Applied Sciences for the
use of its facilities. The support from the National Science Council under grant NSC
94-2212-E-151-010 is also gratefully acknowledged.
References
1. N. Tiesler, U. Engel, M. Geiger, Forming of Microparts-Effects of Miniaturization on
Friction, Advanced Technology of Plasticity, Proceedings of the 6th ICTP, Vol. 2, Sept. 19-24
9計畫成果自評
研究內容與原計畫相符程度
研究內容與原計畫大致相符，唯需要更多時間建構軸對稱問題之有限元素分析程式，
因此由原訂針對軸對稱問題更改為平面應變問題之電腦程式寫作。另外，增加平面應變壓
縮實驗之工作，以利驗證所提之摩擦模式。
達成預期目標情況
本計畫完成之工作項目為下列四項：
1. 推導以接觸介面附近的孔隙率為參數的摩擦模式。
2. 建立金屬成形平面應變問題之有限元素分析電腦程式。
3. 執行實驗工作：(1)材料壓縮試驗量測應力應變曲線; (2)環形壓縮試驗量測摩擦係數; (3)
雙邊反向擠出試驗;(4) 平面應變壓縮實驗檢測提出之摩擦模式。
4. 比較與分析所提摩擦模式與其他模式及實驗數據之差異。
其中第 1、3 與 4 項均達成預期目標。唯需要更多時間處理軸對稱問題之有限元素分
析程式寫作，因此第 2 項由原訂針對軸對稱問題更改為平面應變問題之電腦程式建構，另
外第 3 項增加平面應變壓縮實驗之工作，以驗證所提之摩擦模式。
研究成果之學術或應用價值
本計畫所提之摩擦模式以反應接觸之微結構變化為出發點，考慮金屬成形過程工件表
面鋒隨塑性變形之變化而改變接觸介面附近之孔隙率。利用接觸介面之孔隙率為摩擦模式
之參數，將可改善傳統模擬方法以固定摩擦係數值無法反應接觸狀態改變之問題，亦可解
決磨潤模式不易處理動態問題之缺點。此外基於摩擦模式考量微結構之變化，將可有效反
應微金屬成形之介面摩擦問題，並可以運用於其他工程問題中，對摩擦效應做更精確之模
擬分析。研究成果適合在學術期刊發表。
主要發現或其他有關價值
本研究利用介面孔隙率處理摩擦問題，不僅考慮變接觸介面為非完全壓平之事實，並
考慮工件表面鋒之微結構變化，以更直接的方式將示表面鋒與粗糙度之變化導入摩擦模
式。除應用於一般金屬成形之模擬外，將提供一個處理微成形摩擦問題的新研究方向。本
研究是一個處理摩擦問題之新技術，且可廣泛應用於存在摩擦效應之成形問題。
