 2
中英文摘要 
 
一、中文摘要 
近年來，由於在大量資料的可得性上有重大發展，以及在對於將現有資料轉化為可用資
訊或知識上有著相當迫切的需求，資料探勘（data mining）於是在資訊產業中受到了相當的
重視。馬氏-田口系統（Mahalanobis-Taguchi System, MTS）是由田口玄一博士所發展的新資
料探勘工具。MTS 為一種多變量資料分析技術，可用於診斷、預測、二元分類及特徵選取等
方面，目前已成功地運用在各式的問題分析上。 
本計畫首先著眼於 MTS 理論的深究與擴展，並試圖改善 MTS 目前所存在於理論與應用
上的主要缺點，以期加強 MTS 的可靠度與實用性。最後，本計畫應用上述研究所得的成果於
實際工業問題的解決上。本計畫之主要目的如下： 
1. MTS的分類閾值之決定在實際應用上一直是個懸而未決的問題，本計畫第一年針對此問
題提出一「機率閾值訂定法」來獲得一適當閾值。此外，資料類別不平衡問題通常會降
低現有相關分類技術的績效表現，因此本計畫也探討MTS對於處理「資料類別不平衡問
題」的穩健性。 
2. 由於多類別問題在應用上的普遍性，本計畫在第二年以現有之MTS理論為基礎，提出一
個新的可以同時處理多類別分類及特徵選取的方法，稱為MMTS，並對MMTS進行績效
評估。 
3. 以前兩年所得到的研究成果為基礎，第三年提出一套針對聲音或震動等一維訊號辨識而
設計的訊號特徵萃取流程，來為薩克斯風製造業建立一套多類別的「自動化音色檢驗系
統」，並以實例進行說明。 
關鍵詞：分類、資料類別不平衡問題、特徵選取、馬氏-田口系統、聲音訊號辨識、特徵萃取 
 
 4
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
馬氏-田口系統之理論與應用（1/3） 
Mahalanobis-Taguchi System: Theory and Applications (1/3) 
計畫編號：97-2221-E-007-089-MY3 
執行期限：97 年 8 月 1 日至 98 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：蘇朝墩    國立清華大學工業工程與工程管理學系 
計畫參與人員：蕭宇翔、周家任、林鴻鈞、陳衍成、王芳芳、陳昆皇 
              國立清華大學工業工程與工程管理學系 
 
 
一、中文摘要 
 
馬氏-田口系統（MTS）是由田口玄一博士所發展的新資料探勘工具，可用於診斷、預測、
二元分類及特徵選取等方面，目前已成功地運用在各式實際的問題分析上。資料類別不平衡
問題通常會降低現有分類技術的績效表現。本計劃旨在研究與探討 MTS 對於處理「資料類別
不平衡問題」的穩健性。此外，MTS 的分類閾值決定在實際應用上一直是個懸而未決得問題，
因此，本計畫將同時針對此問題提出一「機率閾值訂定法」來獲得二元分類問題的適當閾值。
研究結果顯示，MTS 用於非平衡資料分類問題時較其他分類技術表現來得穩健。最後，本研
究將 MTS 使用在手機無線頻率功能檢測流程的改善上，而在該檢流程所收集的資料數據即為
非平衡資料型態。改善結果顯示，MTS 在維持檢測正確性下，顯著降低了所需的檢測項目。 
 
關鍵詞：資料探勘、類別不平衡問題、馬氏-田口系統、閾值、手機檢測 
 
Abstract 
 
The Mahalanobis-Taguchi System (MTS), developed by Dr. Taguchi, is a relatively new data 
mining tool.  MTS is a collection of methods proposed for diagnosis, forecasting, binary 
classification, and feature selection technique using multivariate data, and has been successfully 
used in various applications.  In this study, we investigate the reliability and robustness of MTS 
for dealing with the “class imbalance problems” which always diminishes the performance of 
classification algorithms.  Meanwhile, to solve the pending practical problem of determining the 
classification threshold for MTS, we will also develop a “probabilistic thresholding method” to 
derive an appropriate threshold for binary classification.  The results indicate that MTS is the most 
robust technique to deal with the classification problem on imbalanced data.  Finally, MTS is 
employed to analyze the RF inspection process of mobile phone manufacture.  The data collected 
from the RF inspection process is typically an imbalanced type.  Implementation results show that 
the inspection attributes are significantly reduced and that the RF inspection process can also 
maintain high inspection accuracy. 
 
Keywords: Data mining, Class imbalance problem, Mahalanobis-Taguchi System (MTS), 
Threshold, Mobile phone inspection. 
 
二、緣由與目的 
 
The classification problem is one of the main issues in data mining because the attempt is to 
extract a classifier which can be used to predict the classes of objects whose class labels are 
unknown.  The binary classification problem, a sub-set of classification problems, is one in which 
 6
This study was carried out in order to investigate whether or not MTS has more robust 
classification ability than other classification techniques when facing class imbalance problems.  
Meanwhile, we also evaluated the performance of the probabilistic thresholding method.  Finally, 
a real case about improving the mobile phone radio frequency (RF) inspection process was 
employed to illustrate the practicality of MTS.  Through the application of MTS, the redundant 
inspection attributes were efficiently detected and removed without losing inspection accuracy. 
 
三、研究方法論 
 
In MTS, the MD distributions of normal and abnormal examples usually overlap.  An effective 
threshold can enhance the diagnostic and forecasting ability of MTS.  However, how to find an 
appropriate threshold to effectively distinguish the normal and abnormal examples is an important 
issue.  Dr. Taguchi suggested using the “quadratic loss function” to determine a threshold [14], yet 
this method is impractical because of the difficulty in estimating the relative cost or loss in each 
case [15].  Instead, real applications always use the “exhaustive search method” (ESM) to search 
the threshold which results in the highest classification accuracy on the training set.  However, the 
ESM is time-consuming, and the determined threshold may cause MTS model to over-fit the 
training set and lower the classification reliability.  This study employed the Chebyshev’s theorem 
to develop a “probabilistic thresholding method” (PTM).  The Chebyshev’s theorem is useful to 
estimate the probability of getting a value which deviates from the mean by less than some degree 
of standard deviation, especially when the probability distribution of the dataset is unknown.  Our 
PTM applies this probability property to compute a threshold for MTS. 
According to the Chebyshev’s theorem, it can be easily proved that the following inequality is 
valid: 
2
1)(
r
XrP XX ≤≤⋅+ σμ              (1.1) 
where Xμ  and Xσ  are the mean and the standard deviation, respectively, of the random variable 
X .  The probability of getting a value which is larger than Xμ  by at least Xrσ  is at most 21r .  
On the basis of MTS theory, only normal examples can constitute a population, while each 
abnormal example is unique.  Therefore, we regard the normal MD as a random variable mdX  
which is generated from an unknown probability distribution, and mdμ  and mdσ  are its mean and 
standard deviation.  Let T denote our proposed threshold which discriminates between normal and 
abnormal examples, and the probability of false alarm is denoted by )( mdXTP ≤ . 
Now, we used the information provided by the training set and the inequality (1.1) to develop a 
threshold.  The steps are detailed as follows:  
Step 1: Remove the outliers, the examples with MDs out of three standard deviations, on the left 
tail of the MD distribution of the abnormal examples.  
Step 2: Among the normal group, we compute the percentage of the examples whose MDs are 
smaller than the minimum MD of the remainder abnormal examples.  The percentage is denoted 
by ω .  Because some abnormal MDs on the left tail have been removed, a small parameter λ  
( 0>> λω ), 0.05 is typical, is introduced to adjust the percentage ω  to reflect the real situation 
of the non-overlap of the normal group.  Thus, under the MD boundary covering λω−  of 
normal distribution, it is confident that there will be a perfect prediction on abnormal examples and 
a corresponding maximum false alarm percentage )(1 λω- −  on the normal group. 
Step 3: Set the upper bound of the false alarm probability, )( mdXTP ≤ , equal to empirical 
percentage )(1 λω- − . 
)(1)( λω −−≤≤ mdXTP               (1.2) 
 8
results corresponding to the experiments 1, 2, and 3, we were able to trace if the training of a 
classifier is affected by the different degrees of class imbalance of the training set.  The bottom 
two data sets were much more imbalanced than the top three ones, and the ratios of negative to 
positive were more than 1000 : 1.  In addition to the different class imbalance levels, these 
problems involved widespread data sizes from dozens to ten thousands and various complexities 
which was measured by the maximum Fisher’s Discriminant Ratio over all the feature dimensions 
(f-ratio) [25].  A smaller f-ratio means the two classes have more overlap region, and thus more 
difficult to deal with.  
 
Table 1. Summary Descriptions of the Data Set 
 
 
Table 2 shows the test results on the Breast-Wisconsin dataset.  The results indicated that the 
MTS(PTM) performed slightly worse than SVMs while better than the other methods.  In 
experiment 1, the two classes of the training set were slightly imbalanced, and all the six methods 
had good performance on the sensitivity and specificity metrics.  However, when the degree of 
class imbalance of the training set was increased as done in experiments 2 and 3, the sensitivity of 
SDA, C4.5, and BPN significantly decreased although the specificity was still at high level.  By 
contrast, the MTS(PTM) and SVMs could have high sensitivity and specificity even if the training 
sets were much imbalanced, and this resulted in good g-means metrics on the three experiments.  
The RSs of the MTS(PTM) and SVMs on the three experiments were all near to 1, while the RS of 
SDA, C4.5, and BPN decreased as the degrees of class imbalance increased.  It appears that the 
ability of SDA, C4.5, and BPN classifiers to predict the positive examples decreases as the 
proportion of the positive instances in training set decreases.   
 
Table 2. Comparison of Test Results on the breast-Wisconsin data Set 
 
 
On the Letter dataset, the test results are in Table 3.  It is clear that only MTS(PTM) could 
achieve high g-means and keep RSs to be around 1.  The Heart-Disease data set has a significant 
overlap between its two classes.  Thus, to determine an appropriate threshold to correctly 
differentiate the two classes seems more important for MTS.   
Table 4 shows the test results on the Heart-Disease data set.  The performance of the 
MTS(PTM) was much better than that of the other five methods.  Additionally, we also found that 
the specificity of SDA, C4.5, BPN, and SVMs were much higher than the sensitivity, especially on 
the experiment 3.  On the experiment 3, the C4.5 classifier almost lost the ability to predict the 
positive examples.  Table 5 shows the test results on the Shuttle and Covtype data sets.  Under 
the ratio of negative to positive more than 1000 : 1, MTS(PTM) still performed robustly on 
 10
Table 6. Mean and Standard Deviation of g-Means Prediction Accuracy on UCI Data Set 
 
 
4.3 Discussion 
In section 4.1, we totally employed eleven experiments with different imbalance levels, sample 
sizes, and classification complexities to evaluate the performance of different classification 
techniques.  The results indicated that using the PTM to determine a threshold can help MTS to 
avoid over-fitting the training sets and to attain better classification ability than using ESM.  The 
experimental results also revealed that the classification techniques, i.e., SDA, C4.5, BPN, and 
SVMs were influenced by the class imbalance problem much more easily than MTS regardless of 
the data sizes or complexities of problems.  Given the observance made on the g-means metric, 
MTS could almost make the highest value in the eleven experiments.  Besides, the RSs of MTS 
steadily kept close to 1, while that of the other methods decreased with the increase in the degrees 
of class imbalance of the training sets.  These performances mean that the ratio of the classes in 
the training set exercises influence over the learning procedures of SDA, C4.5, BPN, and SVMs 
classifiers.  On the contrary, MTS is robust not only when facing the class imbalance problem but 
also under the various data sizes and different problem complexities.  In section 4.2, we compared 
MTS with several modified SVMs devised for class imbalance problem.  The comparison results 
verified the good ability of MTS for dealing with imbalanced data, and conformed that MTS is not 
inferior to the modified SVMs.   
Besides, from the viewpoint of implementation, there are no parameters needed to be optimized in 
executing MTS, while other techniques, such as BPN and SVMs, always spend much time on 
determining the best combination of parameters.  Moreover, it is unnecessary for MTS to do any 
adjustment or modification at data or algorithm level in order to fitting imbalanced data learning.  
On the other hand, correctly predicting the positive examples is always more important in real 
applications because they affect the performance of a system.  For example, if a production 
inspection system cannot correctly and immediately detect the defective products, it will entail a 
huge cost later.  Therefore, a classification technique should have the ability to overcome the class 
imbalance problem.  It is apparent that the ability of MTS in predicting both of the classes is 
robust and is not affected by the distribution of the training set even though it is much imbalanced.  
This property is useful for real application. 
 
五、案例應用 
 
5.1  Case Description 
The case studied here comes from a mobile phone manufacturer located in Taiwan [30].  The 
RF functional inspection aims to inspect if a dual band mobile phone receive/transmit signal 
satisfies the enabled transmission interval (ETI) protocol on different channels and power levels.  
In order to ensure the quality of communication of mobile phones, the manufacturer added many 
extra inspection items to the radio frequency (RF) functional inspection process, such as several 
different frequency channels and power levels.  However, the added inspections caused an 
increase in the required operation time and made the RF functional inspection process the 
bottleneck of the entire mobile phone manufacturing procedure. 
The RF functional inspection process includes 62 inspection attributes, and they were labeled as 
1C  to 62C .  The purpose of this case study was to remove the redundant RF functional inspection 
attributes by using MTS to reduce the production costs, to shorten the time to market, and to 
enhance market competition.   
 12
to 14 without losing inspection effectiveness.  As a result of diminishing the inspection time and 
relative production expenses, the manufacturer improved its productivity and enhanced the 
flexibility of responding to demands; thus, the manufacturer stands on a vantage point vis-à-vis its 
competitive market.  These results led us to conclude that MTS is a powerful and useful 
classification technique for imbalanced data analysis.  Thus it adequately appears that MTS is 
practical for industry improvement, especially for high-technology industries which have high yield 
rate, and with data that are imbalanced.   
This study has four contributions.  First, the research provided a detailed description of the 
concepts, principles, and implementing procedures of MTS.  This can help us understand this 
diagnostic and forecasting technique.  Second, with the systematic experiments and analyses, this 
paper showed that the imbalanced training set indeed cause bias on classifier training, while MTS is 
robust even though the training set distributes much imbalanced.  This finding can be a reference 
for future classification tasks on imbalanced data.  Third, this study proposed the probabilistic 
thresholding method which can aid MTS in efficiently determining a threshold.  Finally, we 
successfully introduced MTS into improving the RF functional inspection process of mobile phone 
manufacturing.  This indicates the practicability of MTS in high-technology production. 
The above research results have been accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on 
Knowledge and Data Engineering. 
 
五、參考文獻 
 
[1] N. Japkowicz, “Learning from imbalanced data sets: a comparison of various strategies,” 
Learning from Imbalanced Data Sets: The AAAI Workshop, pp. 10-15, 2000.  
[2]   N. Japkowicz and S. Stephen, “The class imbalance problem: a systematic study,” Intelligent 
Data Analysis, vol. 6, no. 5, pp. 429-450, 2002. 
[3]   C. Phua, D. Alahakoon, and V. Lee, “Minority report in fraud detection: classification of 
skewed data,” SIGKDD Explorations, vol. 6, no.1, pp. 50-59, 2004.  
[4]   N. V. Chawla, K. Bowyer, L. Hall, and W. Kegelmeyer, “SMOTE: synthetic minority 
over-sampling technique,” Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research, vol. 16, pp. 231-357, 
2002. 
[5]   J. W. Grzymala-Busse, J. Stefanowski, and S. Wilk, “A comparison of two approaches to 
data mining from imbalanced data,” Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 3213, pp. 
757-763, 2004. 
[6]   P. C. Pendharkar, J. A. Rodger, G. J. Yaverbaum, N. Herman, and M. Benner, “Association, 
statistical, mathematical and neural approaches for mining breast cancer patterns,” Expert 
System with Applications, vol. 17, pp. 223-232, 1993. 
[7]   M. A. Maloof, “Learning when data sets are imbalanced and when costs are unequal and 
unknown,” ICML-2003 Workshop on Learning from Imbalanced Data Sets II, 2003. 
[8]   G.. Batista, R. C. Prati, and M. C. Monard, “A study of the behavior of several methods for 
balancing machine learning training data,” SIGKDD Explorations, vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 20-29, 
2004. 
[9]   H. Guo and H. L. Viktor, “Learning from imbalanced data sets with boosting and data 
generation: the DataBoost-IM approach,” SIGKDD Explorations, vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 30-39, 
2004. 
[10]  N. V. Chawla, N. Japkowicz, and A. Kolcz, “Editorial: special issue on learning from 
imbalanced data Sets,” SIGKDD Explorations, vol. 6, no.1, pp. 1-6, 2004. 
[11]  K. Huang, H. Yang, I. King, and M. Lyu, “Learning classifiers from imbalanced data based 
on biased minimax probability machine,” Proceedings of the 04’ IEEE Computer Society 
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR’04), pp. 558-563, 2004. 
[12]  J. Zhang and I. Mani, “kNN approach to unbalanced data distributions: a case study 
involving information extraction,” Workshop on Learning from Imbalanced Datasets 
 14
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
馬氏-田口系統之理論與應用（2/3） 
Mahalanobis-Taguchi System: Theory and Applications (2/3) 
計畫編號：97-2221-E-007-089-MY3 
執行期限：98 年 8 月 1 日至 99 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：蘇朝墩    國立清華大學工業工程與工程管理學系 
計畫參與人員：周家任、林鴻鈞、陳衍成、陳昆皇、王芳芳 
              國立清華大學工業工程與工程管理學系 
 
 
一、中文摘要 
 
由於多類別問題在應用上的普遍性，本研究以現有之馬氏-田口系統（MTS）理論為基礎，
提出一個新的、可以同時處理多類別分類及特徵選取的方法，稱為多類別馬氏-田口系統
（MMTS）。為了評估MMTS的有效性，本研究以一數值實驗來進行多個演算法的比較與驗
證。結果顯示，MMTS無論在多類別分類正確率上，或特徵選取的穩定度上皆優於其他演算
法。最後，MMTS被用於一個關於妊娠糖尿病預測與風險因子定義的實際案例，其所呈現的
結果顯現了MMTS的實用性。 
 
關鍵詞：分類、特徵選取、多類別問題、馬氏-田口系統、妊娠糖尿病 
 
Abstract 
 
Because of the frequent occurrence of multi-class problems in real applications, in this study, a 
novel multi-class classification and feature selection method, namely, Multi-class MTS (MMTS) 
are developed on the basis of MTS theory.  For evaluating the effectiveness of MMTS, a 
numerical experiment is implemented, and the results show that MMTS outperforms other 
well-known algorithms not only on classification accuracy but also on feature selection efficiency.  
Finally, a real case about gestational diabetes mellitus is studied, and the results indicate the 
practicality of MMTS in real world applications. 
 
Keywords: Classification, Feature selection, Multi-class problem, Mahalanobis-Taguchi system 
(MTS), Gestational diabetes mellitus. 
 
二、緣由與目的 
 
Mahalanobis-Taguchi system (MTS) developed by Dr. Taguchi is a collection of methods that 
was proposed as a forecasting and classification technique using multivariate data [1], [2].  MTS 
integrates Mahalanobis distance and Taguchi’s robust engineering.  Mahalanobis distance is used 
to construct a multidimensional measurement scale and define a reference point of the scale with a 
set of observations from a reference group.  Taguchi’s robust engineering is applied to determine 
the important features and then optimize the system.  So far, MTS has been successfully used in 
various applications [3]-[7].  Nevertheless, all of these applications are restricted to two-class 
problems due to the limitation of MTS algorithm that only one Mahalanobis space can be 
constructed for one problem.  Besides, the research conducted on MTS for supporting the 
multi-class problems is very few. 
The multi-class classification problems, a sub-set of classification problems, assume the 
 16
imbalance problem” which results in lowering the classification sensitivity [7], [23].  Also, by 
using the decomposition strategies, the examples are classified into the class with the highest 
number of votes by applying a combination rule on the set of decisions.  It is possible that there 
will be ties or contradictions in the voting, and this follows an inefficiency classification [32].  
Besides, in error correcting output coding approach, each class is assigned a binary string of 
m ( km > ) bits and an error correcting output coding scheme is represented in a mk ×  matrix.  A 
good error correcting output coding should have both good separations between rows and between 
columns of the mk ×  matrix; that is, the codes must ensure that both the rows and the columns are 
neither identical nor complementary.  However, in real applications, decompositions based on 
error correcting output coding can sometimes produce very complex dichotomies [33].  Moreover, 
these decomposition strategies don’t have the capability of supporting a binary algorithm for 
implementing the feature selection on whole multi-class problem even if the algorithm can do that 
well in a two-class problem.  That is, different feature subsets will be picked out for each 
decomposed two-class classification problem, and the features valuable to one decomposed 
problem may be detrimental to the others.  Undoubtedly, a difficulty of integrating the different 
local feature subsets to a global one to achieve the maximum classification accuracy will be 
encountered if we just apply the decomposition strategies to a classification algorithm which is with 
feature selection function.  Therefore, to effectively extend MTS to support the multi-class 
classification problems and at the same time ensure a well carried out feature selection, it is worth 
developing an new MTS algorithm that can simultaneously handle more than two classes.   
In this study, we proposed a novel multi-class classification and feature selection method, 
namely, multi-class Mahalanobis-Taguchi system (MMTS) on the basis of MTS.  MMTS breaks 
the limitation of MTS in which only one Mahalanobis space is constructed for one problem.  In 
contrast, MMTS establishes an individual Mahalanobis space for each class.  Before constructing 
the Mahalanobis spaces, the Gram-Schmidt process is performed to make the features mutually 
orthogonal, and thus results in the elimination of their relationship (multicollinearity) which makes 
the covariance matrix almost singular and the inverse matrix invalid [2].  Then by computing and 
comparing of the Mahalanobis distances from each example to the Mahalanobis space 
corresponding to every class and evaluating the importance of each feature by orthogonal arrays 
and signal-to-noise (SN) ratio, MMTS can accomplish the both of classification and feature 
selection for multi-class problems.  In addition, one of the drawbacks of the Mahalanobis distance 
is the equal adding up of the variance normalized squared distances of the features without 
considering their relative contribution for classification.  Thus, to improve the classification 
performance, a “weighted Mahalanobis distance” was proposed and used as the final distance 
metric for classification in this study.  The weighted Mahalanobis distance is obtained by 
heightening the influence of the features which have more impact on discriminating different 
classes while lowering the influence of those having less impact.  In order to verify the 
effectiveness of our proposed MMTS, several benchmark datasets were used to compare the 
performance of MMTS with that of other well-known algorithms on classification and feature 
selection.  Finally, a real case about the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus from gestational 
diabetes mellitus was employed to illustrate the practicality of MMTS.  Through the application of 
MMTS, the significant risk factors of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus from gestational diabetes 
mellitus were efficiently identified and the predictive accuracy also achieved the meaningful level 
in health care domain.  
 
三、研究方法論 
 
The multi-class Mahalanobis-Taguchi system (MMTS) was developed according to the framework 
of Mahalanobis-Tagichi system, and is composed of four main implementing stages: 1) construction 
of a full model measurement scale with Mahalanobis space of each class as the reference; 2) 
validation of the full model measurement scale; 3) feature selection; and 4) future prediction with 
 18
measurement scale is validated.  For this purpose, the Mahalanobis distance to each Mahalanobis 
space is calculated for each example.  The measurement scale is then validated by examining the 
separability of the Mahalanobis distances corresponding to the examples with different classes. 
For iC , ki ,,2,1 K= , we use the corresponding abnormal examples from the other 1−k  classes 
to validate the measurement scale.  To do so, the Mahalanobis distances from the abnormal 
examples to iC  should be computed using (2.3).  According to the theory of 
Mahalanobis-Taguchi system, the Mahalanobis distances of abnormal examples will be much larger 
than those of normal examples if the measurement scale is good.  However, for iC , ki ,,2,1 K= , if 
there is no significant difference between the normal and abnormal Mahalanobis distances, it 
implies that the constructed Mahalanobis space can not suitably represent the corresponding real 
normal condition, and what we should do is to return to the beginning of whole problem and do 
some checks on the completeness of considered features or on the representative of collected 
examples used to construct Mahalanobis space.  
 
Stage 3: Identification of the Important Features 
In this stage, orthogonal arrays and signal-to-noise ratio are used to identify the important 
features for multi-class classification.   
Each of the original d  features is first set with two experiment levels.  Level 1 is to include 
the feature in constructing the Mahalanobis space while level 2 is to exclude the feature.  
Afterwards, an appropriate orthogonal array is chosen, and the d  features are assigned into 
different columns of orthogonal array.  Inside the orthogonal array, every row (run) presents a 
different level combination of features.  For each run, the features with level 1 are used to 
construct the Mahalanobis space for iC , ki ,,2,1 K= , and the )( )(pj iMD  for inj ,,2,1 K= , ki ,,2,1 K= , 
and kp ,,2,1 K=  are calculated according to (2.3) and are regarded as the outputs of each run.  
Thus, in each run, there will be in  normal Mahalanobis distances and ∑
=
k
q
qn
1
 abnormal 
Mahalanobis distances produced for iC , where iq ≠ .  When an example r  comes from iMS , a 
high ratio 
)(
)(
)(
)(
ip
r
ip
r
i
i
MD
MD
=
≠
 is expected.  For this reason, the signal-to-noise ratio, η , corresponding to 
each run of orthogonal array is computed using the concept of the larger-the-better type and is 
defined using the following equation: 
∑∑ ∑
== =
−
=
≠
=
⎥⎥
⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢⎢
⎢
⎣
⎡
⎟⎟
⎟
⎠
⎞
⎜⎜
⎜
⎝
⎛
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛⋅⋅−=
k
pi
ip
k
pi
n
j
ip
j
ip
j
i
i
i
i
MD
MD
n 1,1, 1
1
)(
)(
10
)(
)(1log10 ηη     (2.4) 
where in  is the umber of examples in the Mahalanobis space iMS ; )( )( ipj iMD
=  is the Mahalanobis 
distance from the thj  example in iMS  to class pC , and ip = ; )( )( ipj iMD ≠  is the Mahalanobis distance 
from the thj  example in iMS  to class pC , and ip ≠ . 
For the thl  feature, +lSN  is used to represent the average signal-to-noise ratio of all runs 
including the feature, while −lSN  represents the average signal-to-noise ratio of all runs excluding 
the feature.  Because of the usage of orthogonal arrays, it is allowable to independently evaluate 
the effect of each main factor.  Thus, the “effect gain” of each feature can be directly calculated 
using the following equation: 
−+ −= lll SNSNGain                     (2.5) 
If the effect gain corresponding to a feature is positive, the variable may be important and be 
considered as worth keeping.  However, a variable with negative effect gain should be removed. 
 
Stage 4: Future Prediction with the Important Features 
In this final stage, a reduced model measurement scale is constructed using the important 
 20
each class.  
∑
=
=
k
i iclassofexamples
rightpredictediclassofexamples
k
BCA
1 #
#1                    (2.9) 
To fairly compare the classification results, avoid exaggerating the results obtained by chance, 
and estimate the stability of a feature selection for a given dataset, we adopted N-fold stratified 
cross-validation ( 5=N ) strategy.  The algorithm outputs a preference feature subset and it 
follows a classification result for each of the training folds.  The feature stability is then obtained 
simply by using the average similarity of the ( )
2
1−NN  pairs from the N  feature subsets.  Our 
proposed similarity between two feature sets is measured adopting the Hamming distance.  Let [ ]daaaA ,,, 21 K=  and [ ]dbbbB ,,, 21 K=  be two vectors in a d  dimensional space, where { }1,0, ∈ll ba  and 1 denotes the feature which is selected while 0 denotes the one which is not 
selected.  The Hamming distance, H , between vector A  and vector B  is defined as the 
number of mismatched components of A  and B .  The similarity, S , between vector A  and 
vector B  is defined as follows: 
( ) ( )
d
BAHBAS ,1, −=                    (2.10) 
On the other hand, to increase the reliability of the comparison results, the chosen datasets 
should take different combinations of the number of pattern classes, the number of features, data 
size, and classification complexity into account.  Therefore, totally twelve datasets involving 
widespread data sizes from hundred to ten thousands and various complexities and the number of 
features were collected from Statlog collection (http://www.niaad.liacc.up.pt/old/statlog) and the 
UCI machine learning databases (http://www.ics.uci.edu/~mlearn/MLRepository.html), and were 
used in comparison.  The complexity was measured by the inverse of the maximum Fisher’s 
Discriminant Ratio over all the feature dimensions [36].  A higher complexity value means there 
exist a larger overlap region among different classes, and thus it is more difficult to deal with.  
After being preprocessed and sorted, the characteristics of the thirteen datasets are summarized in 
Table 1. 
 
Table 1. Summarization of Data Set Characteristics 
 
 
4.2  Numerical Experiments 
The Mahalanobis distance classifier (MDC), support vector machine (SVM), back-propagation 
neural network (BPN), learning vector quantization (LVQ), decision tree (C4.5), rough set theory 
(RST), and stepwise linear discriminant analysis (SLDA) were used to compare with our proposed 
MMTS.  In this comparison, MMTS and the Mahalanobis distance classifier were developed using 
MATLAB (http://www.mathworks.com).  LIBSVM [37] was used to implement support vector 
machine for classification problems.  Support vector machine aims to find the hyperplane to 
separate the two classes with a maximum margin and is a useful technique for binary classification 
problem.  To extend support vector machine to multi-class applications, the one-against-one 
 22
 
Table 2.  Balanced Classification Accuracy 
 
 
 
Table 3. Feature Selection Efficiency 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Confidence Interval of the Mean of Balanced 
Classification Accuracy 
 
Figure 2. 95% Confidence Interval of the Mean of 
Feature Selection Efficiency 
 
 
4.3  Discussion  
In this study, we employed twelve datasets with various data size, number of features and 
classes, and classification complexities to evaluate the performance of different algorithms on 
classification and feature selection.  Given the observation made on the balanced classification 
accuracy, MMTS is significantly better than other classification algorithms and is comparable with 
support vector machine.  In particular, the support vector machine has been accredited as one of 
the most effective classification techniques, and it is exhilarating that MMTS achieved the parallel 
performance level with the support vector machine.  On the part of feature selection, MMTS also 
performed well in terms of efficiency which considers both the percentage of feature reduction and 
the stability of selected features.  Especially, the feature selection efficiency of MMTS is slightly 
better than that of LASSO and SVM-RFE which have been successfully used in many applications.  
These results convince us that MMTS not only can have good ability on the multi-class 
classification but also can simultaneously carry out the efficient feature selection. 
On the other hand, from the viewpoint of implementation, there are no parameters needed to be 
optimized in the execution of MMTS, while other techniques, such as the back-propagation neural 
network, support vector machine, and the support vector machine-based feature selection methods 
always spend much time on tuning parameters.  The performance of these parameter-attached 
classification or feature selection techniques is always sensitive to the parameter determination, and 
 24
mellitus from gestational diabetes mellitus.  Appropriate enforcement of health care education, 
remedy and follow-up monitoring on the identified risk factors is expected to postpone and even to 
avoid the occurrence of type 2 diabetes mellitus from gestational diabetes mellitus. 
   This case study was conducted in a general hospital located in Taipei, Taiwan.  To 
examine for gestational diabetes mellitus, the hospital routinely performs 50-g oral glucose 
challenge test during the 24th to 28th week of gestation, followed by a 3-hr 100-g oral glucose 
tolerance test if the 1-hr 50-g glucose value was 140≥  mg/dL.  According to the National 
Diabetes Data Group criterion, more than one of the following venous plasma glucose 
concentrations must be met for gestational diabetes mellitus diagnosis: 1) fasting value 105≥  
mg/dL; 2) 1-hr 190≥  mg/dL; 3) 2-hr 165≥  mg/dL; and 4) 3-hr 145≥  mg/dL.  The study 
subjects were recruited from 1998 to 2002 and registered into the gestational diabetes mellitus 
registry.  In the meantime, several attributes, shown in Table 4, were collected on the gestational 
diabetes mellitus women, and were used as the predictors of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus 
after a gestational diabetes mellitus pregnancy.  To investigate the type 2 diabetes mellitus status 
after gestational diabetes mellitus, all pregnant women who showed gestational diabetes mellitus 
complications were advised to return for metabolic testing.  A 2-hr 75-g oral glucose tolerance test 
was conducted to examine type 2 diabetes mellitus from 3 to 6 months postpartum.  Among the 
558 gestational diabetes mellitus registries, there were 152 subjects who were available and who 
successfully completed the follow-up examination for type 2 diabetes mellitus.  The type 2 
diabetes mellitus examining results can be grouped into three categories according to the criterion 
set by Department of Health, Taiwan: 1) normal (fasting value < 110 mg/dL and 2-hr 75-g oral 
glucose tolerance test 140<  mg/dL); 2) pre-diabetes mellitus state (126  mg/dL > fasting value 
≥ 110 mg/dL or 200 mg/dL >2-hr 75-g oral glucose tolerance test >140 mg/dL); 3) diabetes 
mellitus (fasting value ≥ 126 mg/dL or 2-hr 75-g oral glucose tolerance test ≥ 200 mg/dL).  In 
this case, there were 152 sample data that consisted of 10 diabetes mellitus, 32 pre-diabetes mellitus, 
and 110 normal. 
 
Table 4. Attributes Collected for Gestational DM Case 
 
 
The problem of identifying the significant risk factors of type 2 gestational diabetes mellitus 
after gestational diabetes mellitus was formulated as a classification and feature selection task on 
three-class problem, and thus our proposed MMTS algorithm was utilized.  To avoid the variation 
due to sampling, and the limited size of the available data, a 5-fold stratified cross-validation was 
employed in the analysis of this case study.  Table 5 shows the classification and feature selection 
results of the five folds.  The classification accuracy of predicting diabetes mellitus (DM), 
pre-diabetes mellitus (pre-DM), and normal subjects is 0.8, 0.6, and 0.61, respectively.  Through 
confirmation using the domain knowledge provided from the physicians in the hospital, the 
predictive accuracy achieves the meaningful level on health care.  That is, by predicting the 
occurrence of type 2 diabetes mellitus using the gestational diabetes mellitus attributes by MMTS, 
the physicians can more effectively diagnose the future health condition of the women with 
gestational diabetes mellitus.  Besides, several significant risk factors of developing type 2 
diabetes mellitus in women with gestational diabetes mellitus were identified by MMTS.  As 
shown in Table 5, attributes F2 (50-g oral glucose challenge test value), F4 (1-hr 100-g oral glucose 
tolerance test value), F5 (2-hr 100-g oral glucose tolerance test value), and F11 (Family history of 
diabetes mellitus) were identified in more than two of the five folds, and were thus considered 
important for predicting type 2 diabetes mellitus after gestational diabetes mellitus and as risk 
 26
required; 2) the information of relative importance of each feature is valuable for making the 
follow-up decisions; and 3) the relative distance/similarity to each class needs to be considered for 
presenting the final class label of an example.  Especially, having the similar model construction 
method to MTS which is robust for solving class imbalance problems [7], it is expected that MMTS 
will behave better than other algorithms on the problems with unevenly distributed classes.  On the 
other hand, the small sample size problem usually damages the reliability of most algorithms’ 
learning.  Without exception, the computation accuracy of Mahalanobis distance will be also, even 
more easily influenced by the small sample size problem than other algorithms.  This will make 
MMTS having lower performance, and needs to be overcome. 
This study has three contributions.  First, this research successfully proposed a novel multi-class 
classification and feature selection algorithm, MMTS, on the basis of extending MTS which is 
restricted to binary applications.  Second, not only classification accuracy but also feature 
selection efficiency was taken into account and evaluated on several datasets with different 
combinations of complexity, size, and the number of classes when algorithms were compared in 
this study.  Such a treatment on both classification and feature selection domains for algorithm 
evaluation seems to be unprecedented and can be the reference for future research.  Third, we 
successfully introduced MMTS into the application of health care, thereby indicating the 
practicability of MMTS in real world. 
The above research results have been accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on 
Knowledge and Data Engineering. 
 
五、參考文獻 
 
[1] G. Taguchi, S. Chowdhury, and Y. Wu, The Mahalanobis-Taguchi System, McGraw-Hill, 
2001. 
[2] G. Taguchi and R. Jugulum, The Mahalanobis-Taguchi Strategy, John Wiley & Sons, 
New York, 2002. 
[3] J. Srinivasaraghavan and V. Allada, “Application of Mahalanobis Distance as A Lean 
Assessment Metric,” International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology, vol. 
29, pp. 1159-1168, 2006. 
[4] T. Riho, A. Suzuki, J. Oro, K. Ohmi, and H. Tanaka, “The Yield Enhancement 
Methodology for Invisible Defects Using the MTS+ Method,” IEEE Transactions on 
Semiconductor Manufacturing, vol. 18, no. 4, pp. 561-568, 2005. 
[5] P. Das and S. Datta, “Exploring the Effects of Chemical Composition in Hot Rolled Steel 
Product Using Mahalanobis Distance Scale under Mahalanobis-Taguchi System,” 
Computational Materials Science, vol. 38(4), pp. 671-677, 2007. 
[6] G. Taguchi, S. Chowdhury, and Y. Wu, Taguchi’s Quality Engineering Handbook, Wiley, 
2005.  
[7] C. T. Su and Y. H. Hsiao, “An Evaluation of the Robustness of MTS for Imbalanced 
Data,” IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, vol. 19(10), pp. 
1321-1332, 2007. 
[8] Y. L. Cun, B. Boser, J. Denker, D. Hendersen, R. Howard, W. Hubbard, and L. Jackel, 
“Backpropagation Applied to Handwritten Zip Code Recognition,” Neural Computation, 
vol. 1, pp. 541-551, 1989. 
[9] O. Chapelle, P. Haffner, and V. N. Vapnik, “Support Vector Machines for 
Histogram-based Image Classification,” IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks, vol. 
10(5), pp. 1055-1064, 1999. 
[10] M. Shami and W. Verhelst, “An Evaluation of the Robustness of Existing Supervised 
Machine Learning Approaches to the Classification of Emotions in Speech,” Speech 
Communication, vol. 49(3), pp. 201-212, 2007. 
 28
Multiclass Problems Using Modular Neural Networks,” IEEE Transactions on Neural 
Networks, vol. 6(1), pp. 117-124, 1995. 
[32] R. Duda, P. Hart, and D. Stork, Pattern Classification, Wiley, 2001. 
[33] F. Masulli and G. Valentini, “Effectiveness of Error Correcting Output Codes in 
Multiclass Learning Problems,” Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 
vol. 1857, pp. 107-116, 2000. 
[34] W. H. Woodall, R. Koudelik, K. L. Tsui, S. B. Kim, Z. G. Stoumbos, and C. P. Carvounis, 
“A Review and Analysis of the Mahalanobis-Taguchi System,” Technometrics, vol. 45(1), 
pp. 1-15, 2003. 
[35] A. Kalousis, J. Prados, and M. Hilario, “Stability of Feature Selection Algorithms,” Fifth 
IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, 2005.  
[36] T. K. Ho and M. Basu, “Complexity Measures of Supervised Classification Problems,” 
IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, vol. 24(3), pp. 289-300, 
2002. 
[37] C. C. Chang and C. J. Lin, LIBSVM: A Library for Support Vector Machines, 2001. 
Software available at http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/libsvm. 
[38] R. Tibshirani, “Regression Shrinkage and Selection via the Lasso,” Journal of Royal 
Statistical Society. Series B, vol. 58(1), pp. 267-288, 1996. 
[39] B. E. Efron, T. Hastie, I. Johnstone, and R. Tibshirani, “Least Angle Regression," The 
Annals of Statistics, vol. 32, pp. 407-451, 2004. 
[40] I. Guyon, J. Weston, S. Barnhill, and V. Vapnik, “Gene Selection for Cancer 
Classification Using Support Vector Machines,” Machine Learning, vol. 46, pp. 389-422, 
2002. 
[41] A. Rakotomamonjy, “Variable Selection Using SVM-based Criteria,” Journal of Machine 
Learning Research, vol. 3, pp. 1357-1370, 2003. 
[42] L. Shih, J. D. M. Rennie, Y. H. Chang, and D. R. Karger, “Text Bundling: 
Statistics-Based Data Reduction,” Proceedings of the Twentieth International Conference 
on Machine Learning, Washington DC, 2003. 
[43] X. B. Li, “Data Reduction via Adaptive Sampling,” Communications in Information and 
Systems, vol. 2(1), pp. 53-68, 2002. 
[44] H. Liu and H. Mtotda, Instance selection and construction for data mining, Boston : 
Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2001. 
[45] N. H. Cho, H. C. Jang, H. K. Park, and Y. W. Cho, “Waist Circumference is the Key Risk 
Factor for Diabetes in Korean Women with History of Gestational Diabetes,” Diabetes 
Research and Clinical Practice, vol. 71(2), pp. 177-183, 2006. 
[46] M. K. Barger and M. Bidgood-Wilson, “Caring for a Woman at High Risk for Type 2 
Diabetes,” Journal of Midwifery and Women's Health, vol. 51(3), pp. 222-226, 2006. 
[47] B. E. Metzger, N. H. Cho, S. M. Rston, and R. Radvany, “Pregnancy Weight and 
Antepartum Insulin Secretion Predict Glucose Tolerance Five Years after Gestational 
Diabetes Mellitus,” Diabetes Care, vol. 16. pp. 1598-1605. 1993. 
[48] S. L. Kjos, R. K. Peters, A. Xiang, O. A. Henry, M. Montoro, and T. A. Buchanan, 
“Predicting Future Diabetes in Latino Women with Gestational Diabetes,” Diabetes, vol. 
44, pp. 586-591, 1995. 
 
 30
designed using computer simulations, all main components of saxophone are processed separately, 
and assembled in the end of manufacturing procedure.  Some visual inspections and adjustments 
are implemented during the various phases of manufacture to check the physical dimensions and the 
occurrence of unacceptable variations, such as inadequate soldering.  Although every saxophone is 
yielded according to the precise specifications given by computer simulations, it is possible that 
some unobvious imprecision that has impact on the sound quality may be caused during handmade 
manufacture.  For example, the diversity of the drilled tone holes can lead to different sharpness of 
instrument sound.  Thus, sound quality is also tested in the final inspection by professional 
musicians to insure that the timbre quality and other sound elements are within acceptable 
specifications, and further to differentiate among different quality levels of saxophones.  It is 
worthy to notice that the pitch can be easily checked using an apparatus while the timbre quality 
mainly depends on the musicians’ hearing judgment.  However, the sensitivity and the stability of 
human perception can be influenced by many factors, such as emotions (psychological) and 
tiredness (physiological) [1], which may lead to decrease the reliability of timbre quality inspection.  
Actually, the saxophone timbre quality judgment task implemented by the professional musicians in 
the final inspection stage can be regarded as a musical instrument timbre classification problem. 
The term “timbre” refers to the perceptual quality of sound, and is defined as the characteristics 
of auditory sensation by which a listener can distinguish two dissimilar sounds with the same 
loudness and pitch [2].  Unlike pitch or loudness, timbre cannot be directly expressed by one 
physical property; its perception is the outcome of the interaction among the features hiding in the 
signal pattern of sound, and the recognition of timbre is an exploiting, analyzing and explaining 
procedure based on the hidden features.  Generally, the framework of a musical instrument timbre 
classification task involves two phases: parameterization phase and classification phase.  Because 
the sound signals presented as raw waveform cannot be directly processed by a classification 
algorithm, the parameterization phase attempts to extract a wide set of quantified features from the 
sound signals to appropriately model their temporal and spectral characteristics.  The 
parameterization can be achieved via various signal analysis techniques considering the time, 
frequency or time-frequency domain.  A lot of analysis techniques, such as statistical methods, 
cepstral analysis, constant-Q transform, Fourier transform, short-time Fourier transform, wavelet 
analysis, and so on have been successfully applied to the sound parameterization phase [3]-[8].  
Unceasingly, much effort has been dedicated to develop relevant features for musical instrument 
timbre classification problems [6], [9]-[13].  The developed sound features may be generally 
grouped into three categories: temporal, spectral, and cepstral features.  Temporal features, such as 
the duration of sound, zero-crossing rate, energy functions, periodicity, rise time, vibrato, etc. are 
derived directly from the sound signals presented in time domain.  Spectral features are usually 
calculated on the basis of short time frame of steady state of sound, and are obtained from the 
samples in the frequency domain of the sound signals.  Spectral centroid, spectral range, 
irregularity of spectrum, constant-Q coefficients, sound brightness, and so on all belong to spectral 
features.  Cepstral features are typically derived by taking the Fourier or Fourier-related transform 
of the decibel spectrum as if it were an original signal.  The Mel-frequency cepstral coefficients, a 
kind of cepstral features, are widely used in musical recognition and are considered as the most 
important features for musical timbre recognition [14]-[17].  After the features characterizing 
original sound signals are extracted, classification algorithms coming from statistics, soft 
computing, or machine learning domain, such as discriminant analysis [18], k nearest neighborhood 
classifier [15], [19], artificial neural network [18], [20], [21], rough set theory [6], [22], decision 
tree [6], [17], support vector machines [12], [18], etc. are then employed to accomplish the musical 
instrument timbre classification or recognition tasks.  Besides, much work has been done in order 
to identify the important perceptual features for timbre recognition [9], [14]-[16], [23], [24].  Some 
research including sound feature extraction and evaluation and the development of musical 
instrument classification system can be found in [3], [6], [8]-[24].  A trace of major time and 
frequency analysis methods that have been applied to music processing and an informative review 
of different techniques that have been so far proposed for automatic classification of musical 
 32
0 0.5 1 1.5 2
x 10
4
-0.6
-0.4
-0.2
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
 
Fig. 1. The four parts of sound signal waveform: (a) attack part, (d) decay part, (s) sustain part, and (r) release part. 
 
The procedures of our proposed WFEM for isolated musical instrument tones are detailed as 
follows: 
Step 1: Frame and Separate Out the Sustain Part of A Musical Instrument Tone 
A signal of musical instrument tone is framed and the sustain part which is with stable energy is 
separated out.  In general, the frame should contain more than one fundamental period of the 
signal and is typically set to be 20 to 30 ms with some overlap.  Let E  be the frame size and 
][ey  be the amplitude of the  sample in frame.  The energy of a frame can be calculated by (3.1).   
∑
=
=
E
e
ey
1
2])[(Energy                    (3.1) 
Step 2: Determine the Upper and Lower Bound for Each Frame 
Let maxy+  and maxy−  be the upper and lower bound of a frame, respectively.  The maxy  is 
determined by following equation: 
}][{max
,,2,1max
eyy
Ee K=
=                  (3.2) 
Step 3: Set Amplitude Levels for Each Frame 
The interval between any two consecutive amplitude levels is set to be uniform, and the width 
of an interval, i.e. S , is determined as follows:   
υ2
2 maxyS ⋅=                          (3.3) 
where υ2  is the number of intervals between the upper and lower bound of a frame.  Therefore, 
the thL  amplitude level, i.e. LA , can be set as: 
}0,,)2(),1({ K−±−±=⋅= υυLSLAL    (3.4) 
The appropriate number of amplitude levels is determined depend on different cases, and is the 
outcome of trade-off between rich information and low complexity. 
Step 4: Derive the Variation Property on Each Amplitude Level 
Variation property on an amplitude level is recorded by calculating the “level-crossing amount.”  
The level-crossing amount is the number of intersections of signal waveform and the amplitude 
level.  The level-crossing amount on LA  , i.e. LCA , can be calculated as follows: 
∑−
=
=
1
1
)(
E
e
LL eCA α                      (3.5) 
 34
around 50% of the total value in the world.   
The real case studied here comes from a saxophone manufacturer located in Houli, Taiwan.  
Alto saxophone is one of main products of this manufacturer.  At present, the finished alto 
saxophones are grouped into three quality levels according to their timbre which is subjectively 
judged by the professional musicians in the final inspection stage of the manufacturing procedure.  
The three quality levels are high quality, qualified quality, and adjustment needed.  However, the 
efficiency of inspection process is always low because the professional musicians need to 
periodically take a rest to prevent from the hearing tiredness.  Moreover, a wrong judgment of the 
saxophone quality may lead to huge loss of manufacturer’s credit in market.  In this case study, we 
attempt to establish an automatic multi-class saxophone timbre classification system using our 
proposed AMTCS to assist the musician in implementing the timbre quality inspection more 
reliably and prevent from the judgment bias caused by human perception.  For this purpose, totally 
150 alto saxophones containing 50 for each timbre quality level were collected as the analyzed 
examples from the final inspection station.  For each example, 15 isolated tones from 1c  to 3c  
with no vibrato were performed by the professional musicians with almost the same intensity, and 
were recorded in 4 seconds long, monophonic and sampled in 44.1 KHz with 16 bit resolution.  
Each tone was divided into several frames of 25 ms with 30% overlap at the two adjacent frames, 
and the sustain part was separated out according to the signal energy for deriving the features.  In 
this case, the number of intervals, υ2 , between the upper and lower bound of frame was set to be 
10.  Fig. 2 shows the upper and lower bounds and the amplitude levels of a frame from the tone 
1d  conducted by a high quality saxophone.  Thus, 17 features composing of 8 features for 
describing the variation property and 9 for the existence property were extracted from each tone, 
and this yielded totally 255 features (17 features for each of the 15 tones) for a saxophone example. 
 
0 200 400 600 800 1000
-0.8
-0.6
-0.4
-0.2
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
7344.0max −=− y
7344.0max =+ y
4A
3−A
4−A
2−A
1−A
0A
1A
2A
3A
 
Fig. 2. The upper and lower bounds and the amplitude levels of a frame from the tone 1d  conducted by a high quality 
saxophone 
 
A metric called multiple Mahalanobis distance [27] was used when implementing MMTS of 
AMTCS in this case study.  Multiple Mahalanobis distance method is very useful in the situations 
where the large number of variables can be divided into several meaningful subsets containing local 
variables.  In the multiple Mahalanobis distance method, the Mahalanobis distance is calculated 
using local variables for each subset, and the Mahalanobis distances of all subsets belonging to an 
example form a new variable vector.  MMTS is then implementing on the dataset with the new 
variable vectors.  In this way, not only the complexity of problems is reduced but the important 
variables selected by MMTS can have more practical meaning.  In the saxophone case, multiple 
Mahalanobis distance method was used because the 255 features of a saxophone example can be 
divided in to 15 feature groups according to the tones where the features come from.  Moreover, it 
is more valuable to get the knowledge about which tone causes the different quality levels of 
saxophones than to review the individual importance of each of the 255 features.   Therefore, for a 
saxophone example, the Mahalanobis distance of each tone was first calculated using the 
corresponding 17 features, and this resulted in a new feature vector composing 15 Mahalanobis 
 36
 
 
 
Fig. 3. The 0.95 confidence interval of saxophone classification accuracy 
 
The symmetrical uncertainty [36] was also adopted to assess and confirm the quality of the 
proposed waveform-based features used for classification.  Symmetrical uncertainty method 
attempts to rank the worth of a feature by measuring the symmetrical uncertainty value with respect 
to the class.  The symmetrical uncertainty value restricts to the range [0, 1] with the value 1 
indicating that knowledge of feature value completely predicts the class value and the value 0 
indicating their independence.  There were totally 195 Mel-frequency cepstral coefficients (MFCC, 
13 features for each of the 15 tones) and 255 waveform-based features (17 features for each of the 
15 tones) considered in this assessment.    Table 3 lists the ranking of first 30 important features 
and their symmetrical uncertainty (SU) values.  The result indicates that 22 out of the fist 30 
important features are occupied by our proposed waveform-based features, and this provides the 
evidence that our proposed WFEM is comparable. 
 
Table 3. Feature Ranking for Saxophone Classification 
 
 
五、計劃成果自評 
 
Under the highly developed automation today, the manufacture of saxophone is still a 
non-automatic process and much relies on highly skilled technicians.  In order to insure that the 
timbre quality and other sound elements are within acceptable specifications, the sound of finished 
saxophone must be tested in the final inspection stage by professional musicians.  Unlike the pitch 
which can be easily checked using an apparatus, the evaluation of timbre quality mainly depends on 
the musicians’ hearing judgment.  However, the sensitivity of human perception can be influenced 
 38
105(3), pp. 1933-1941, 1999. 
[9] P. J. Ponce de León and J. M. Iñesta, “Pattern Recognition Approach for Music Style 
Identification Using Shallow Statistical Descriptors,” IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, 
and Cybernetics - Part C: Applications and Reviews, vol. 37(2), 2007. 
[10] R. Ramirez, E. Maestre, A. Pertusa, E. Gómez, and X. Serra, “Performance-Based 
Interpreter Identification in Saxophone Audio Recordings,” IEEE Transactions on Circuits 
and Systems for Video Technology, vol. 17(3), pp. 356-364, 2007. 
[11] D. Fragoulis, C. Papaodysseus, M. Exarhos, G. Roussopoulos, T. Panagopoulos, and D. 
Kamarotos, “Automated Classification of Piano–Guitar Notes,” IEEE Transactions on 
Audio, Speech, and Lngurage Processing, vol. 14(3), 2006. 
[12] S. Essid, G. Richard, and B. David, “Musical Instrument Recognition by Pairwise 
Classification Strategies,” IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Lngurage Processing, 
vol. 14(4), 2006. 
[13] A. A. Wieczorkowska, J. Wróblewski, P. Synak, and D. Ślezak, “Application of Temporal 
Descriptors to Musical Instrument Sound Recognition,” Journal of Intelligent Information 
Systems, vol. 21(1), pp. 71-93, 2003. 
[14] G. D. Poli and P. Prandoni, “Sonological Models for Timbre Characterization,” Journal of 
New Music Research, vol. 26(2), pp. 170-197, 1997.  
[15] J. D. Deng, C. Simmermacher, and S. Cranefield,  “A Study on Feature Analysis for 
Musical Instrument Classification,” IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and 
Cybernetics-Part B: Cybernetics, vol. 38(2), pp. 429-438, 2008. 
[16] E. Benetos, M. Kotti, C. Kotropoulos, “Musical Instrument Classification Using 
Non-negative Matrix Factorization Algorithms and Subset Feature Selection,” IEEE 
International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing, vol. 5, pp. 221-224, 
2006. 
[17] P. Herrera, A. Yeterian, and F. Gouyon, “Automatic Classification of Drum Sounds: A 
Comparison of Feature Selection Methods and Classification Techniques,” Lecture Notes in 
Computer Science, vol. 2445, pp. 69-80, 2002. 
[18] G. Agostini, M. Longari, and E. Pollastri, “Musical Instrument Timbres Classification with 
Spectral Features,” EURASIP Journal on Applied Signal Processing, vol. 1, pp. 5-14, 2003.
[19] I. Kaminskyj and T. Czaszejko, “Automatic Recognition of Isolated Monophonic Musical 
Instrument Sounds using kNNC,” Journal of Intelligent Information Systems, vol. 24(2/3), 
pp. 199-221, 2005. 
[20] A. M. Fanelli, G. Castellano, and C. A. Buscicchio, “A Modular Neuro-Fuzzy Network for 
Musical Instruments Classification,” Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 1857, pp. 
372-382, 2000. 
[21] B. Kostek, “Musical Instrument Classification and Duet Analysis Employing Music 
Information Retrieval Techniques,” Proceedings of the IEEE, vol. 92(4), pp. 712-729, 
2004. 
[22] A. Wieczorkowska and A. Czyzewski, “Rough Set Based Automatic Classification of 
Musical Instrument Sounds,” Electronic Notes in Theoretical Computer Science, vol. 82(4), 
pp. 298-309, 2003. 
[23] J. C. Brown, O. Houix, and S. McAdams, “Feature Dependence in the Automatic 
Identification of Musical Woodwind Instruments,” Journal of the Acoustical Society of 
America, vol. 109(3), pp. 1064-1072, 2001. 
[24] K. W. Berger, “Some Factors in the Recognition of Timbre,” Journal of the Acoustical 
Society of America, vol. 36(10), pp. 1888-1891, 1964. 
[25] P. Herrera, X. Amatriain, E. Batlle, and X. Serra, “Towards Instrument Segmentation for 
Music Content Description: A critical review of instrument classification techniques,” 
Proceedings of ISMIR, 2000. 
[26] C. T. Su and Y. H. Hsiao, “Multi-class MTS for Simultaneous Feature Selection and 
Classification” IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, to appear. 
 40
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■ 達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
說明：本計畫為期三年，研究內容與原計畫完全相符，達成預期目標 100%。 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
本計畫之部分成果已發表於： 
1. "An Evaluation of the Robustness of MTS for Imbalanced Data," IEEE Transactions on 
Knowledge and Data Engineering, Vol. 19, No. 10, pp. 1321-1332.  
2. "Multi-class MTS for Simultaneous Feature Selection and Classification," IEEE Transactions 
on Knowledge and Data Engineering, Vol. 21, No. 2, pp. 192-205. 
3. "Multi-class MTS for Saxophone Timbre Quality Inspection Using Waveform Shape-based 
Features," IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, Part B: Cybernetics, Vol. 39, 
No. 3, pp. 690-704. 
4. “Saxophone Timbre Quality Inspection Using Proposed Automatic Multi-class Timbre 
Classification System,” ANQ Congress 2008, Bangkok 
5. “Adopting Multi-Class MTS to Predict the Obstructive Sleep Apnea,” Proceedings of the 2nd 
International Conference on Applied Operational Research, Turku, Finland, pp. 295-300 
6. “A Reformed MTS for Multi-class Data Analysis,” The 37th International Conference on 
Computers and Industrial Engineering, Alexandria, Egypt
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
第三年計畫發展了一套「自動化多類別音色分類系統（AMTCS）」來協助執行音色檢測的
工作。AMTCS 由本研究所提出的「以波形為基礎之特徵萃取方式（WFEM）」及「多類
別馬氏-田口系統（MMTS）」所構成。透過 AMTCS 的使用，我們為薩克斯風的音質檢驗
提供了可靠的支援，並且在實際檢測結果上獲得百分之百的正確率。此外，AMTCS 亦可
輕易地將顯著影響薩克斯風音色的重要音符找出，作為後續改善之用。 
 
 2
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
略 
 
四、建議 
建議國科會多多補助出席國際學術會議。 
 
五、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. 研討會論文集一冊 
2. 多項研討會與國際期刊 Call for Paper 之資訊 
 
六、其他 
 
 
 4
Adopting Multi-Class MTS to Predict the Obstructive 
Sleep Apnea 
Li-Fei Chen1, Pa-Chun Wang 2, Chun-Chin Hsu3, Chao-Ton Su4 
 
1 Graduate Program of Business Management, Fu-Jen Catholic University, Taiwan 
075033@mail.fju.edu.tw 
2 Dept. of Otolaryngology, Cathay General Hospital, Fu Jen Catholic University School of Medicine, Taiwan 
drtony@tpts4.seed.net.tw 
3 Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Management, Chaoyang University of Technology, Taiwan 
cchsu@cyut.edu.tw 
4 Dept. of Industrial Engineering and Engineering Management, National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan 
ctsu@mx.nthu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract. This study aims to apply the Multi-Mahalanobis Taguchi System 
(MMTS), based on anthropometric information and questionnaire data, to predict 
obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). We separated the collected OSA data into two 
parts: group I and group II. The group I data were used to establish the MMTS 
model, and group II’s data were used to test the developed MMTS model. The 
results show that MMTS has an accuracy of 0.8438 on the OSA prediction. 
Therefore, MMTS can be applied to assist doctors in foreseeing the diagnosis of 
OSA before running the PSG test, so the medical resources can be used more 
effectively. 
Keywords: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), Multi-Mahalanobis Taguchi System 
(MMTS), Mahalanobis Taguchi System (MTS).  
 
1   Introduction 
Sleep disorders and sleep deprivation constitute an inadequately addressed public health 
problem. Traditionally, polysomnography (PSG) is considered a well-established and 
effective diagnostic tool, providing information regarding the severity of OSA and the 
degree of sleep fragmentation. However, the PSG method is time-consuming and 
labor-intensive [1-2], requiring overnight evaluation in a sleep laboratory, dedicated 
systems, and attending personnel. Accurate identification of an apnea event requires 
direct measurement of upper airway airflows and respiratory efforts. Therefore, the 
development of a simple and effective predictive method for OSA diagnosis is 
important.  
This study used the Multi-class Mahalanobis Taguchi System (MMTS) for OSA 
prediction to provide a convenient and fast prediction method. In addition, a comparison 
was made between MMTS and other methods, including logistic regression (LR), back 
propagation neural network (BPN), learning vector quantization (LVQ), support vector 
machine (SVM), C4.5 decision tree, and rough set (RS). 
 6
 
Fig. 1. Procedure of implementing MMTS [3] 
3   Implementation 
PSG, a multi-parametric test used in sleep medicine, provides reliable data on OSA 
through comprehensive recordings of biophysiological changes that occur during sleep. 
It involves the following data: electroencephalogram (EEG), electrooculogram (EOG), 
electromyogram (EMG), heartbeat, and oximeter of the lobe. Scoring is accomplished 
via the Rechtschaffen method, which grades the severity of sleep apnea by the number 
of events per hour, and is reported as a respiratory disturbance index (RDI). Patients 
were placed into four groups: where the RDI value < 5 is normal; 5-15 is mild; 15-30 is 
moderate, and more than 30 events per hour characterize severe sleep apnea. In this 
study, MMTS was employed for the classification of OSA patterns.  
In order to illustrate the effectiveness of MMTS for OSA prediction, comparisons were 
made between MMTS and other methods, including LR, BPN, LVQ, SVM, C4.5 
decision tree, and RS. In this comparison, SVM was implemented using LIBSVM, 
which provides an efficient parameter selection tool using cross-validation via a parallel 
grid search, performed under the kernel of the radial basis function type. BPN and LVQ 
 8
MMTS to anticipate the OSA diagnosis. Extremely simple and convenient, therefore, it 
is a useful method for doctors to predict the OSA diagnosis in advance before running 
the PSG test, so the medical resources can be used more effectively.  
 
Table3. A comparison 
Method Selected attributes Pattern 
Accuracy 
(%) 
Average. 
MMTS normal 87.5% 84.38% 
mild 66.67% 
moderate 100%  
Age, weight, SBP, 
DBP, DI3 DI4 
severe 83.33% 
 
Logistic 
Regression 
normal 50.00% 55.33% 
mild 50.00% 
moderate 33.33%  
Gender, Age, 
height, weight, 
BMI, SBP, DBP, 
ESS, SOS, DI3, 
DI4, PLM severe 100.00% 
 
BPN normal 25.00% 34.04% 
mild 33.33% 
moderate 11.11% 
 
Gender, Age, 
height, weight, 
BMI, SBP, DBP, 
ESS, SOS, DI3, 
DI4, PLM 
severe 66.70% 
 
LVQ normal 50.00% 47.22% 
mild 16.67% 
moderate 22.22% 
 
Gender, Age, 
height, weight, 
BMI, SBP, DBP, 
ESS, SOS, DI3, 
DI4, PLM 
severe 100.00% 
 
SVM normal 37.50% 53.82% 
mild 66.67% 
moderate 11.11%  
Age, height, 
weight, BMI, SBP, 
DBP, ESS, SOS, 
DI3, DI4, PLM severe 100.00% 
 
C4.5 normal 37.50% 63.54% 
mild 50.00% 
moderate 66.67%  
Age, weight, BMI, 
SBP, SOS, DI4 
severe 100.00% 
 
RS normal 25.00% 13.20% 
mild 16.67% 
moderate 11.11%  
Gender, Age, 
weight, SBP, ESS, 
SOS 
severe 0.00% 
 
 10
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                               日期： 99 年 11 月 1 日 
一、參加會議經過 
本人於 2008 年 10 月獲遴選為國際品質學術院院士(An Academician of the 
International Academy for Quality, IAQ)。IAQ 成立於 1971 年，IAQ 的院士主要來
自三大地區：(1)美洲，(2)歐洲，(3)泛亞；IAQ 院士人數上限為 100 名，該院至今
約擁有 90 名院士(含現役、榮譽、退休和通訊院士)。本人此行最大之目的為參加
IAQ 例行的 General Meeting，並與新加入的 Academician 進行交流。 
由於 IAQ 乃是 ASQ、EOQ 及 JUSE 此三個區域性品質專業組織所催生出來的全球
性品質專業組織，因此當 IAQ 舉行 General Meeting 時，也希望各院士亦能同時參
與 ASQ、EOQ 及 JUSE 的研討會。然而，本人此次經費有限，僅順便參加了 54th EOQ 
Congress 半天的活動。 
此行由本人獨自前往，首先於台灣時間 2010.10.26.出發搭機至曼谷，再轉機至土
耳其的 Istanbul (伊斯坦堡)，接著再轉機至 Izmir (伊斯麥)，已是當地早上約 10:00。
本人稍事休息之後，即參加 EOQ Congress 下午的活動。本人於 2010.10.28.早上
08:00 參加 IAQ General Meeting，除了聽取新任院士之報告外，也參與討論「IAQ
如何能更積極的服務世界各地區的品質組織」；會議於下午 04:00 節束。隨後，馬
上赴 Izmir 機場轉機返回台灣。 
 
二、與會心得 
通常 EOQ 與 ASQ 所舉辦的品質研討會，其內容都相當多元與豐富，值得推薦參
加。由於本人被推薦至 IAQ，依規定每三年至少要參加二次 General Meeting，無
形中也增添了不少負擔。 
 
計畫編
號  NSC97-2221-E-007-089-MY3 
計畫名
稱 
馬氏-田口系統之理論與應用 
出國人
員姓名 蘇朝墩 
服務機構
及職稱 
清華大學工業工程與工程管理系 
教授 
會議時
間 
2010 年 10 月 28 日
至 
2010 年 10 月 28 日 
會議地點 Izmir, Turkey 
會議名
稱 
(中文)國際品質學術院(International Academy for Quality, IAQ)會員會議 
(英文) IAQ General Meeting 
發表論
文題目 
(中文)無 
(英文) No 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/05/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 馬氏-田口系統之理論與應用
計畫主持人: 蘇朝墩
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-007-089-MY3 學門領域: 資訊系統
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
