 1
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■成果報告   □
期中進度報告 
 
雙金屬單層觸媒於奈米金屬粒子上之沉積及其對有機小分子
催化特性之研究(3/3) 
 
 
計 畫 類 別 ： ■ 個 別 型 計 畫    □ 整 合 型 計 畫 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-011 -075 -MY3 
執行期間： 99 年 08 月 01 日至 100 年 07月 31 日 
 
計 畫 主 持 人 ：      黃 炳 照      教 授 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：精簡報告 ■完整報告 
 
本 成 果 報 告 包 括 以 下 應 繳 交 之 附 件 ： 
□ 赴 國 外 出 差 或 研 習 心 得 報 告 一 份 
□ 赴 大 陸 地 區 出 差 或 研 習 心 得 報 告 一 份 
□ 出 席 國 際 學 術 會 議 心 得 報 告 及 發 表 之 論 文 各 一 份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
執行單位：台灣科技大學化工系 
 
中   華   民   國  100  年  11 月  24  日 
 
 
 3
INTRODUCTION. The bulk fabrication of 
advanced bimetallic nanostructures with 
exceptional catalytic,1-2 magnetic,3-4 thermal,5 
and optical6-7 properties is a prerequisite for 
their wide applicability in nanotechnology. 
Bimetallic core-shell nanostructures, made with 
an active-metal shell supported on another metal 
as a core element, are emerging as one of the 
most promising solutions able to address these 
requirements. Such bimetallic core-shell 
nanostructures with enhanced nanoscale 
properties are of interest due to their potential 
as highly efficient catalysts,8-9 magnetic 
components for ultrahigh density memory 
devices,8-9 and sensors in the biomedical field.10 
Among bimetallic core-shell nanostructures, Pt-
ultrathin layered shells on the surface of a 
dimensionally stable M metal core (McorePtultrathin-
shell, where: M is the noble and 3d-transition 
metals) NPs are achieving prominence due to 
their multifunctionalities and enhanced 
properties that can be broadly exploited for 
those applications.11-13 The most widespread 
role of platinum is as a catalyst, particularly in 
the automobile industry, petrochemical industry, 
fuel cells, biosensors, etc.14 As Pt is 
tremendously expensive, it is highly beneficial to 
reduce the amount of Pt. The McorePtultrathin-shell 
NPs comprise a very low Pt content in their 
outer ultrathin layer shell, are one of the best 
solutions to addressing this issue: an approach 
that can cutback the Pt cost while enhancing 
catalytic activity. 
Although these bimetallic core-shell 
nanostructures are of significance, the 
conventional synthetic approaches have not 
been successful in producing high quality core-
shell NPs. These difficulties are due to several 
factors including random nucleation processes 
and inhomogeneous growth of the hetero-
metallic component on core’s surface NPs.15 
Thus, it is necessary to develop and couple new 
NPs synthesis methods with first-principles 
theoretical design, as it gives mechanistic insight 
into the atomistic surface chemistry governing 
the enhanced properties and provides the 
groundwork for NPs fabrication. 
Here we report a first-principal theoretical 
guided synthesis and characterization of selected 
core-shell NPs and demonstrate their unique 
properties using an oxygen reduction reaction 
(ORR) - a key reaction for the practical 
implementation of hydrogen fuel cells. We 
additionally examine the general applicability of 
the designed strategy for the other core-shell 
NPs, e.g. Pt@Pd, Ir@Pt, and Ir@Pd. The 
PdcorePtultrathin-shell NPs were chosen as a primary 
example since Adzic et al.,12 found that the 
ORR activity of a Pt-layered shell supported on 
Au(111), Rh(111), Pd(111), Ru(0001), and 
Ir(111), follows a volcano-type profile with 
respect to the center of their d-bands, with the 
Pt-layered shell on Pd(111) showing the highest 
activity, and thereby could address the principal 
drawbacks in this application, namely the 
sluggish kinetic and high Pt-loading associated 
with the ORR.16-17 
Similarly, the fabrication of these 
PdcorePtultrathin-shell NPs is an ongoing challenge. In 
established redox transmetallation approach,9 
the Pd-core NPs are directly refluxed with the 
Pt-salt precursor, often leading to the formation 
a dense array of Pt dendritic branches, rather 
than a uniform Pt-ultrathin layer shell.18-19 This 
outcome has been attributed to the small lattice 
mismatch (~ 0.77 %) between these two metals, 
as the spontaneous epitaxial growth of Pt on the 
Pd core is thermodynamically favored.20-21 When 
these Pd NPs undergo a redox reaction with the 
Pt ions, which have a higher equilibrium 
potential, the unwanted dissolution of the Pd 
NPs also takes place. Toshima et al.,22-23 
protected the surface of the Pd core with a 
sacrificial hydrogen layer before contacting with 
Pt ions. This redox approach, in which the 
adsorbed hydrogen layer was oxidized by Pt 
ions, prevents the dissolution of the Pd core. 
However, there difficulty in producing a Pt-
ultrathin layer remains a challenging task, since 
the previously formed Pt layer is still active 
towards hydrogen and so can create additional 
thick Pt-layers.  
Adzic et al.,12-13,24-25 used the redox 
displacement of previously deposited Cu, by the 
under-potential-deposition (UPD) of ad-atoms 
on a Pd surface, to form Pt monolayered NPs. 
UPD involves the deposition of an ad-atom on a 
foreign-metal substrate at a potential more 
positive than that predicted by the Nernst 
equation. Applying this potential makes the 
strength of the interactions between the ad-atom 
and the substrate greater than among the ad-
atoms, during spontaneous deposition under 
thermodynamically-controlled conditions. 
However, since the synthesis was carried out 
electrochemically on a glassy carbon electrode, 
 5
coordination number, and thus present the most 
stable sites. At the transition state (T.S.), the 
bond breaking of hydrogen molecules takes 
place given a sufficient energy. Simultaneous 
bond formation between the adsorbate and the 
substrate takes place in the final state (F.S.). We 
have calculated the dissociation energy barriers 
(Ed) involved in hydrogen bond 
breaking on both the slab surfaces. The 
pure Pd(111) slab, has a dissociation 
energy barrier of only 0.08 eV, thus the 
Pd surface easily adsorbs and 
spontaneously splits hydrogen.31 The 
dissociation energy barrier (0.23 eV) 
on CumonolayerPdcore(111) surface is 
significantly higher, implying that the 
Cu-monolayer layer is inert towards 
hydrogen and therefore cannot form 
additional thick Cu layers because the 
process is kinetically-controlled. This 
contrasts with conventional 
thermodynamically-controlled Cu UPD 
processes.  
This Cu-ultrathin layer then generates a Pt-
ultrathin layer on Pd by redox transmetallation; 
i.e. the Cu-ultrathin layer is sacrificially oxidized 
to generate electrons for the reduction of Pt, 
thereby depositing a Pt-ultrathin layer on the Pd 
core (see Fig. 2A). To characterize the Pd-Cu 
and Pd-Pt core-shell structures we performed in 
situ X-ray absorption (XAS) measurements,32-39 
as shown in Fig. 2. XAS spectroscopy, 
encompassing both the X-ray absorption near-
edge structure (XANES) as well as the extended 
X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS), is a 
powerful structural/characterization technique 
for investigating oxidation states and the 
environment surrounding an absorbing atom. 
The modules of Pd k-edge of the Fourier 
transform (FT) obtained for all the PdcorePtultrathin-
shell/C NPs reaction steps during preparation are 
shown in Fig. 2B. The corresponding EXAFS 
fitting parameters are listed in the supporting 
information Table S1. In stage 1, compared to 
the Pd foil, the transform of the commercially 
Pd/C NPs shows an additional peak at ~1.99 Å, 
attributed to the presence of a Pd-O bond, 
characteristic of partially oxidized Pd/C. In 
stage 2, this partially oxidized sample was 
hydrogen purged for 2 h. As a result, the peak 
attributed to Pd-O disappeared, while a Pd-Pd 
bond located at ~2.79 Å increased in intensity, 
indicating the Pd/C sample is in a metallic state 
(Pd0). These changes correspond to 
coordination number changes for Pd-Pd (NPd-Pd) 
increasing from 4.25 to 7.08 (Table S1).  
 
Figure 2. In situ X-ray absorption techniques 
used for probing the reaction mechanism of the 
PdcorePtultrathin-shell/C NPs. (A) Illustration of the 
synthesis of PdcorePtultrathin-shell/C NPs based on an 
electroless method with the corresponding (B) 
FT-EXAFS spectra at the Pd K-edge for various 
reaction steps, and (C) XANES spectra at the 
Cu K- and Pt L3-edges during formation of 
PdcoreCuultrathin-shell/C and PdcorePtultrathin-shell/C NPs, 
respectively. 
In stage 3, the Cu precursor was added and 
hydrogen purging continued for 6 h to form a 
surface Cu-ultrathin layer, as shown in the FT-
EXAFS and XANES spectra. The XANES 
spectra at the Cu K-edge, for the 0.05 M CuCl2 
solution (black line), PdcoreCuultrathin-shell/C NPs 
(red line), and Cu foil reference (green line) are 
shown in Fig. 2C-left. The XANES profile of 
the Cu precursor, i.e. CuCl2, exhibits a sharp 
peak at 8995 eV corresponding to the +2 
oxidation state.38 The intensity of this sharp 
peak (termed a white line), attributed to the 1s 
→ 4p electronic transition, is sensitive to the 
oxidation state of Cu. After the introduction of a 
Cu precursor into a suspension of hydrogen 
purged NPs, the white line intensity decreased 
gradually and reached a similar intensity to that 
of Cu foil, indicating the reduction of Cu2+ to 
Cu0. After 6 h there was a shift in the edge 
energy to a lower value (~ 3 eV). In addition to 
a white line feature, a pre-edge feature 
originating from the 1s → 3d transition38 is 
 7
(Figure 3A). The stripping voltammogram was 
produced as follows: the Pd/C NP’s surface was 
initially treated with hydrogen in a 0.5 M H2SO4 
electrolyte solution. Next CuSO4 (0.01 M) was 
added and the hydrogen purge was continued to 
ensure that sufficient hydrogen was adsorbed on 
the NPs to reduce the Cu2+ ions to form the 
sacrificial Cu-ultrathin layer.  
During the above formation of sacrificial Cu-
ultrathin layer, hydrogen is probably absorbed 
first, and then spontaneously diffuse out to the 
surface of Pd surface, and subsequently 
consumed once that Cu2+ ions are introduced 
into the solution, as the ratio of the electron 
valence of Cu2+-to-e- (from dissociated 
hydrogen) is 2:1. Thus, it is important to 
constantly purge the hydrogen gas during the 
synthesis, ensuring a sufficient amount of 
electrons flow from the dissociated hydrogen 
atoms to complete the layer deposition of Cu 
atoms and form the Cu ultra-thin layer. The 
situation is different if the hydrogen is not 
constantly purged, in which case the generated 
electrons from the dissociation hydrogen would 
be insufficient to form a complete Cu ultrathin 
layer. 
The Cu2+ ions displaced all the adsorbed 
hydrogen from the NPs’ surfaces, which is 
apparent from the suppression of the hydrogen 
desorption peaks (Fig. 3A). The reduction and 
deposition of the corresponding Cu2+ ions to 
form a Cu-ultrathin layer, appears as a strong 
desorption peak located at ca. 0.38 V.25 In 
previous study, Adzic et al.25 located the 
stripping Cu-bulk deposition peak, for 
agglomerated Cu, at a much lower onset 
potential, 0.21 V; which is different from the 
value found for the Cu-ultrathin layer presented 
here.   
From Fig. 3, we also calculated the ratio 
between the stripping Cu and H charges 
(QCu/QH). This determines whether, for this 
present method, it is possible to form a well-
ordered Cu-ultrathin layer on the NPs surface, 
without the three-dimensional (3D) growth of 
bulk Cu. To quantify QH and QCu, similar 
calculations to those reported by Green et al.,41 
have been used. The  QCu/QH ratio was found to 
be about 2, a condition where the copper atoms 
adsorb on Pd metal surface at the same sites as 
hydrogen to form a well-ordered Cu-ultrathin 
layer,41-42  
The cyclic voltammograms (CVs) for the Cu-
ultrathin layer stripping as a function of 
deposition time are shown in the supplementary 
Fig. S3. For each stripping, the first CV cycle 
depicts the stripping curve of the adsorbed Cu 
atoms on the Pd/C NPs. During the forward 
step in this first CV cycle, [typically after 6h of  
deposition (Fig S3-E)], the peak characteristic 
of bulk absorbed, and subsequent adsorbed 
hydrogen atoms (Hads) was suppressed due to 
the presence of the adsorbed Cu-ultrathin layer 
(ca. 0.38 V), whereas a peak corresponding to 
additional growth of Cu-bulk layers was not 
observed. This Cu-ultrathin layer formation was 
maintained, and importantly no additional 
growth of Cu-bulk was formed, even after the 
reaction was extended up to 8h (Fig. S3-F). On 
the second sweep, performed after stripping Cu, 
the voltammograms mirrored those observed for 
Pd/C NPs (i.e. the absence of adsorbed Cu). 
These results emphasize the viability of the 
present method in achieving only a Cu-ultrathin 
layer deposition on a Pd core surface. 
For comparison we conducted a parallel study 
in which the Cu layers were deposited on a Pd/C 
surface using an electrochemical (UPD) method, 
in which holding potentials were employed, to 
deposit Cu layers in a thermodynamically-
controlled reaction. A Cu-monolayer can be 
formed at a holding potential of 0.28 V (Ehold.-3), 
as indicated with black arrows (Fig. 3B). 
However, the holding potential associated with 
this Cu-UPD monolayer must be determined 
carefully, otherwise it may form uncompleted 
Cu-UPD monolayer and/or an additional bulk 
Cu deposits.41 For example, a slight change in 
the holding potential to a lower value, e.g. Ehold.-
1 and Ehold.-2, triggers the growth of additional 
bulk Cu, as indicated by the strong peak located 
at ca 0.28 V.  
For the reduction reaction of Cu2+ + 2e- → 
Cu(s) at a standard condition, the bulk-Cu(s) will 
be deposited at the equilibrium potential 
( CubulkE  ) of 0.3402 V, in accordance with the 
Nernst equation: 
  2ln0 CuCuCubulk CnF
RT
EE   
    (1) 
Where: 0CuE  = 0.3402 V, R = 8.31441 J⋅mole
-
1⋅K-1, F = 96484.6 C⋅mole-1, 2CuC = 1 M, n = 
2, at temperature (T) of 298 K. In general, when 
 9
core was completely covered by a Pt shell. In 
agreement with the FTIR-CO results, our DFT 
modeling study based on the slab system verified 
the differences in the stretching frequencies of 
the adsorbed CO (see Table S3). After applying 
energy minimization, the corresponding CO 
adsorption energies and geometric properties 
are also consistent with previously reported 
DFT studies.28,44-45 Taken together DFT 
modeling and data from the FTIR-CO probe 
confirms that a PdcorePtultrathin-shell/C NPs structure 
is formed.  
The synthesized PdcorePtultrathin-shell/C NPs were 
found to be spherically shaped and reasonably 
well dispersed with an average size of 4.5 nm 
(inset in Fig. 5A). The spherical shape 
homogeneity of the NPs was maintained by 
depositing the Pt atoms only on the top of the 
Pd core. It is important to note that the self-
nucleation of additional thick Pt layer was 
averted and that only a uniform Pt-ultrathin 
layer on the Pd/C NPs surface was generated. 
Recently, TEM has been successfully utilized for 
the characterization of a single core-shell 
particle, i.e. a Pd-Pt core-shell nanoplate with 
the edge length over 50 nm.46 However, the use 
of TEM is still limited by the low detector 
collection efficiency, especially for small 
bimetallic NPs (< 5 nm), where the electron 
dosage required for successful TEM analysis is 
often too high and beyond the radiation damage 
thresholds of the NPs47 and this may also change 
the NPs position. To demonstrate the viability of 
the present strategy, we used Pd nano-cubes 
(~10 nm) - adopting a method proposed by Xia 
et al.48 As can be seen from Fig. 5B, these cubic 
NPs comprising a Pd (100) facet were uniformly 
covered with a relatively darker colored 
ultrathin shell of Pt, and clearly not nucleated 
Pt-NPs, which also indicates the formation of 
well-defined core-shell structure. From the 
HAADF-STEM image (Fig 5C), a line-profile 
analysis was performed, the results presented in 
Fig. 5D show that the thickness of the Pt-shell 
was approximately 0.3 nm, which is close to the 
thickness of a Pt-ultrathin layer. The 
corresponding EDX spectrum (Fig. 5E), shows 
a Pd:Pt atomic ratio of around 7.27:1, which is 
close to that of theoretical value (8:1) for the 
cubical PdcorePtultrathin-shell NPs with the size of 
around 10 nm. In addition, STEM-EDX 
measurements on the Cu-monolayer on Pd 
nanocube were performed, see supplementary 
Fig. S5. It is clear that the line-profile of this 
PdcoreCuultrathin-shell cubic-sample demonstrates a 
similarity to the core-monolayered shell 
structure of the Pd-Pt system. The thickness of 
the Cu shell is also approximately 0.3 nm, thus 
indicating a Cu-ultrathin layer was formed using 
our strategy. 
In order to examine if the redox 
transmetallation reaction of Cu by Pt is 
complete, XANES measurements particularly at 
the Cu K-edge were performed, and it was 
found that the as-prepared spherical-shaped 
Pd@Pt/C NPs contain only an insignificant 
quantity of 2.3 % Cu residues (Fig. S6) that can 
be easily removed by a simple electrochemical 
treatment, i.e. a repetitive cycling treatment for 
10 cycles with scan range of 0.00 to 1.05 VRHE 
at a scan rate of 0.05 V∙s-1 in 0.5 M H2SO4 
electrolyte solution. This electrochemical 
treatment has also been employed in the surface 
sensitive-based techniques, i.e. cyclic 
voltammograms measurements. From these 
cyclic voltammograms (Fig. S7A), we did not 
find any trace of Cu-residues, since the anodic 
and cathodic peak currents, at a potential range 
of approximately 0.3 - 0.6 V, corresponding to 
the presence of Cu were not observed. These 
findings indicate that the redox transmetallation 
process with subsequent minor electrochemical 
treatments is exceptionally effective in 
 11
show an enhanced in both mass and specific 
activities compared to Pd/C and Pt/C. To be 
specific, the PdcorePtultrathin-shell/C NPs exhibited a 
specific activity of 665 μA·cm-2 at 0.9 V, which 
is more than double of that for Pt/C (268 
μA·cm-2) and almost twenty times than that for 
the Pd/C (37.5 μA·cm-2). For a mass activity, a 
similar tendency is observed, where its sequence 
follows the order: PdcorePtultrathin-shell/C > Pt/C > 
Pd/C. In this study, the measured mass and 
specific activities for this sort of Pt-monolayered 
nanostructure are in good agreement with the 
reported values in the literature, e.g. the Adzic 
et al.’s work.24  
The sequence in the mass and specific 
activities is also consistent with the results from 
the cyclic voltammograms (Fig. S6), where the 
Pt-ultrathin layer shifts the onset of metal-oxide 
formation and oxide reduction (indicated with 
arrows) to more positive potentials compared to 
the Pd/C NPs, indicating that a Pt-ultrathin layer 
inhibits surface chemisorption of oxygenated 
species at high potentials,25 and could lead to an 
enhancement in ORR kinetics.49-50 Reducing the 
Pt content of the cathode electrocatalyst while 
increasing the activity of Pt-ultrathin layered 
NPs makes this particular Pt-ultrathin layered 
nanostructure a very promising solution to one 
of the major problems of existing fuel cell 
technology.   
CONCLUSION. We have shown that the 
present kinetically-controlled autocatalytic 
chemical process can be effectively used as a 
general protocol for the fabrication of well-
defined bimetallic core@shell structured NPs, 
such as Pd@Pt, Pt@Pd, Ir@Pt, and Ir@Pd, etc. 
The presented method, which utilizes the strong 
reducing ability of the adsorbed hydrogen on the 
surface of noble metals, can reduce the Cu 
precursors and subsequently forms only a Cu-
ultrathin layer on these metals’ surfaces. This is 
because the Cu- ultrathin layer is inactive 
towards hydrogen and so can restrict the self-
nucleation of additional thick Cu atom-layers. 
This sort of kinetically-controlled synthesis has 
been clearly described in our first principles 
DFT calculations, and it elegantly overcomes 
the drawbacks of the conventional 
thermodynamically-controlled electrochemical 
(i.e. UPD) method, namely its limited 
production capacity. The resulting Cu-ultrathin 
layer was sacrificially oxidized to form another 
metal-ultrathin layer shell through the redox 
process. The selected core-shell NPs with their 
multifunctionalities and enhanced properties 
have been tested in one particularly critical 
catalytic reaction, this being the oxygen 
reduction reaction in hydrogen fuel cells. 
METHODS.  
Materials. Commercial Pd/C (20 wt. %) 
catalyst purchased from BASF Fuel Cell Inc. 
and used as the core material. The Cu and Pt 
precursor salts, i.e. K2PtCl4 and CuCl2.2H2O 
were purchased from Alfa Aesar. The ethanol 
(HPLC grade) was purchased from Sigma 
Aldrich and used as received. 
Synthesis of PdcorePtultrathin-shell/C catalyst. 
The synthesis procedure was initiated by 
sonicating 0.266 g of Pd/C catalyst in 50 mL 
mixed solvent [ethanol-water (1:1)] for 1 h to 
form a uniform suspension. This Pd/C 
suspension was then treated with H2 gas under a 
constant stirring for 2 h. Later, an aqueous 
solution of 50 mL of 5×10-3 M CuCl2 was added 
into the reaction flask containing pretreated 
Pd/C suspension and stirred for 6 h under 
constant H2 gas purging. The resulting 
nanoparticles were then isolated from their 
solvent using a high power centrifugal pump 
(20,000 rpm for 30 min) and re-dispersed in 50 
mL [ethanol-water (1:1)]. Into this suspension, 
an aqueous solution of 50 mL of 5×10-3 M 
K2PtCl4 was added at a flow rate of 1 mL/min. 
The reaction temperature was raised to 60 ºC at 
a heating rate of 5 ºC/min and maintained for 
another 6 h under a N2 atmosphere using a 
standard airless technique. Finally, the resulting 
product was washed by centrifugation and then 
dried at 80 ºC in an air oven for about 8 h. 
In Situ EC-FTIR Measurements. A 
conventional three-electrode electrochemical 
cell with a high surface area Pt counter 
electrode and a saturated calomel electrode 
(SCE) reference electrode, powered by a 
Solartron 1480 Potentiostat/Galvanostat. The 
working electrode was made of the catalyst 
slurry with a loading of 37 µg catalyst/cm2 
immobilized on polished Au surface (diameter of 
1.3 cm) as described in our previous report.28 
Prior to the measurements, Ar gas was purged 
into 0.1 M HClO4 electrolyte solution for 30 
min, following which 10 cycles of continuous 
cyclic voltammograms (potential range of 0.00 – 
1.00 VRHE) were subsequently applied to the 
catalyst. CO adsorption on the catalyst’s 
 13
mass and specific activities, are provided in the 
supporting information. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT. The authors 
gratefully acknowledge financial support from 
the National Science Council (NSC- 99-2120-
M-011-001 and NSC-97-2221-E-011-075-
MY3), and facilities from the National 
Synchrotron Radiation Research Center 
(NSRRC), the National Taiwan University of 
Science and Technology (NTUST), and 
National Center for High Performance 
Computing (NCHC), Taiwan. 
SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
AVAILABLE. The results showing the FT-
EXAFS spectra of the experimental and two-
shell fitting data at various reaction steps during 
the formation of the PdcorePtultrathin-shell/C NPs 
(Fig. S1) with their corresponding structural 
parameters (Table S1), Cu K-edge XANES 
spectra for the deposition of Cu-ultrathin layer 
on the surface of various noble metal NPs, e.g. 
Pt/C and Ir/C (Fig. S2), CVs in the in situ 
stripping of the adsorbed Cu-ultrathin layer on 
Pd/C NPs, as a function of time (Fig S3), DFT 
modelling of a Cu atom deposition on Pd(111) 
and Cu(111) slab surfaces (Fig. S4) with their 
corresponding binding energies (Table S2), 
HAADF-STEM images of Pdcore-Cuultrathin-shell 
cubic shape with its line profile analysis and 
EDX spectrum (Fig. S5), XANES spectra of the 
as-prepared spherical-shaped PdcorePtultrathin-shell 
/C NPs at the Pd K-, Cu K-, and Pt L3-edges 
(Fig. S6), cyclic voltammograms for a Pt-
ultrathin layer on Pd/C NPs obtained via redox 
displacement of Cu-ultrathin layer compared 
with those of monometallic Pd/C and Pt/C 
counterparts (Fig. S7A), together with their 
corresponding ECSA values (Fig. S7B), and 
their stretching properties of the adsorbed CO 
on Pd (111), Pt (111), and PtmonoshellPdcore (111) 
slab systems calculated from DFT modelling 
(Table S3), EDX spectra of the as-prepared and 
electrochemically treated spherical-shaped 
PdcorePtultrathin-shell/C NPs together with their 
corresponding Pd:Pt:Cu atomic composition 
(Fig. S8), TEM images of the spherical- and 
cubical-shaped PdcorePtultrathin-shell NPs (Fig. S9), 
and XRD patterns of the spherical- and cubical-
shaped PdcorePtultrathin-shell NPs, are provided. This 
material is available free of charge via the 
Internet at: http://pubs.acs.org. 
REFERENCES.  
1. Greeley, J.; Stephens, I. E. L.; Bondarenko, 
A. S.; Johansson, T. P.; Hansen, H. A.; 
Jaramillo, T. F.; Rossmeisl, J.; 
ChorkendorffI; Nørskov, J. K. Alloys of 
Platinum and Early Transition Metals as 
Oxygen Reduction Electrocatalysts. Nat. 
Chem. 2009, 1, 552-556. 
2. Stamenkovic, V. R.; Fowler, B.; Mun, B. S.; 
Wang, G.; Ross, P. N.; Lucas, C. A.; 
Marković, N. M. Improved Oxygen 
Reduction Activity on Pt3Ni(111) via 
Increased Surface Site Availability. Science 
2007, 315, 493-497. 
3. Alloyeau, D.; Ricolleau, C.; Mottet, C.; 
Oikawa, T.; Langlois, C.; Le Bouar, Y.; 
Braidy, N.; Loiseau, A. Size and Shape 
Effects on the Order-Disorder Phase 
Transition in CoPt Nanoparticles. Nat. 
Mater. 2009, 8, 940-946. 
4. Sato, K. Magnetic nanoparticles: When 
Atoms Move Around. Nat. Mater. 2009, 8, 
924-925. 
5. Cao, A.; Veser, G. Exceptional High-
temperature Stability through Distillation-
like Self-Stabilization in Bimetallic 
Nanoparticles. Nat. Mater. 2010, 9, 75-81. 
6. Seo, W. S.; Lee, J. H.; Sun, X.; Suzuki, Y.; 
Mann, D.; Liu, Z.; Terashima, M.; Yang, P. 
C.; McConnell, M. V.; Nishimura, D. G. et 
al. H. FeCo/Graphitic-Shell Nanocrystals as 
Advanced Magnetic-Resonance-Imaging 
and Near-Infrared Agents. Nat. Mater. 
2006, 5, 971-976. 
7. Reiss, G.; Hutten, A. Magnetic 
nanoparticles: Applications beyond Data 
Storage. Nat. Mater. 2005, 4, 725-726. 
8. Park, J.-I.; Cheon, J. Synthesis of “Solid 
Solution” and “Core-Shell” Type 
Cobalt−Platinum Magnetic Nanoparticles 
via Transmetalation Reactions. J. Am. 
Chem. Soc. 2001, 123, 5743-5746. 
9. Lee, W. R.; Kim, M. G.; Choi, J. R.; Park, J. 
I.; Ko, S. J.; Oh, S. J.; Cheon, J. 
Redox−Transmetalation Process as a 
Generalized Synthetic Strategy for 
 15
2652. 
27. Yamauchi, M.; Kobayashi, H.; Kitagawa, H. 
Hydrogen Storage Mediated by Pd and Pt 
Nanoparticles. ChemPhysChem 2009, 10, 
2566-2576. 
28. Lin, Y. C.; Chou, H. L.; Tsai, M. C.; 
Hwang, B. J.; Sarma, L. S.; Lee, Y. C.; 
Chen, C. I. Combined Experimental and 
Theoretical Investigation of Nanosized 
Effects of Pt Catalyst on Their Underlying 
Methanol Electro-Oxidation Activity. J. 
Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 9197-9205. 
29. Lai, F.-J.; Chou, H.-L.; Sarma, L. S.; Wang, 
D.-Y.; Lin, Y.-C.; Lee, J.-F.; Hwang, B.-J.; 
Chen, C.-C. Tunable Properties of PtxFe1-x 
Electrocatalysts and Their Catalytic Activity 
towards the Oxygen Reduction Reaction. 
Nanoscale 2010, 2, 573-581. 
30. Lai, F.-J.; Sarma, L. S.; Chou, H.-L.; Liu, 
D.-G.; Hsieh, C.-A.; Lee, J.-F.; Hwang, B.-
J. Architecture of Bimetallic PtxCo1−x 
Electrocatalysts for Oxygen Reduction 
Reaction As Investigated by X-ray 
Absorption Spectroscopy. J. Phys. Chem. C 
2009, 113, 12674-12681. 
31. Dong, W.; Kresse, G.; Hafner, J. 
Dissociative Adsorption of H2 on the 
Pd(111) Surface. J. Mol. Catal. A 1997, 
119, 69-76. 
32. Chen, C. H.; Hwang, B. J.; Wang, G. R.; 
Sarma, L. S.; Tang, M. T.; Liu, D. G.; Lee, 
J. F. Nucleation and Growth Mechanism of 
Pd/Pt Bimetallic Clusters in Sodium Bis(2-
ethylhexyl)sulfosuccinate (AOT) Reverse 
Micelles as Studied by in Situ X-ray 
Absorption Spectroscopy. J. Phys. Chem. B 
2005, 109, 21566-21575. 
33. Chen, C. H.; Sarma, L. S.; Chen, J. M.; 
Shih, S. C.; Wang, G. R.; Liu, D. G.; Tang, 
M. T.; Lee, J. F.; Hwang, B. J. Architecture 
of Pd–Au Bimetallic Nanoparticles in 
Sodium Bis(2-ethylhexyl)sulfosuccinate 
Reverse Micelles As Investigated by X-ray 
Absorption Spectroscopy. ACS Nano 2007, 
1, 114-125. 
34. Chen, C. H.; Sarma, L. S.; Wang, G. R.; 
Chen, J. M.; Shih, S. C.; Tang, M. T.; Liu, 
D. G.; Lee, J. F.; Chen, J. M.; Hwang, B. J. 
Formation of Bimetallic Ag−Pd 
Nanoclusters via the Reaction between Ag 
Nanoclusters and Pd2+ Ions. J. Phys. Chem. 
B 2006, 110, 10287-10295. 
35. Hwang, B. J.; Chen, C. H.; Sarma, L. S.; 
Chen, J. M.; Wang, G. R.; Tang, M. T.; Liu, 
D. G.; Lee, J. F. Probing the Formation 
Mechanism and Chemical States of Carbon-
Supported Pt−Ru Nanoparticles by in Situ 
X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy. J. Phys. 
Chem. B 2006, 110, 6475-6482. 
36. Sarma, L. S.; Chen, C. H.; Kumar, S. M. S.; 
Wang, G. R.; Yen, S. C.; Liu, D. G.; Sheu, 
H. S.; Yu, K. L.; Tang, M. T.; Lee, J. F. 
Formation of Pt−Ru Nanoparticles in 
Ethylene Glycol Solution: An in Situ X-ray 
Absorption Spectroscopy Study. Langmuir 
2007, 23, 5802-5809. 
37. Wang, D. Y.; Chen, C. H.; Yen, H. C.; Lin, 
Y. L.; Huang, P. Y.; Hwang, B. J.; Chen, C. 
C. Chemical Transformation from FePt to 
Fe1-xPtMx (M = Ru, Ni, Sn) Nanocrystals by 
a Cation Redox Reaction:  X-ray 
Absorption Spectroscopic Studies. J. Am. 
Chem. Soc. 2007, 129, 1538-1540. 
38. Hwang, B. J.; Tsai, Y. W.; Sarma, L. S.; 
Tseng, Y. L.; Liu, D. G.; Lee, J. F. Genesis 
of Bimetallic Pt−Cu Clusters in Reverse 
Micelles Investigated by in Situ X-ray 
Absorption Spectroscopy. J. Phys. Chem. B 
2004, 108, 20427-20434. 
39. Hwang, B. J.; Sarma, L. S.; Chen, J. M.; 
Chen, C. H.; Shih, S. C.; Wang, G. R.; Liu, 
D. G.; Lee, J. F.; Tang, M. T. Structural 
Models and Atomic Distribution of 
Bimetallic Nanoparticles as Investigated by 
X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy. J. Am. 
Chem. Soc. 2005, 127, 11140-11145. 
40. Papageorgopoulos, D. C.; Keijzer, M.; 
Veldhuis, J. B. J.; de Bruijn, F. A. CO 
Tolerance of Pd-Rich Platinum Palladium 
Carbon-Supported Electrocatalysts. J. 
Electrochem. Soc. 2002, 149, A1400-
A1404. 
41. Green, C. L.; Kucernak, A. Determination 
of the Platinum and Ruthenium Surface 
Areas in Platinum−Ruthenium Alloy 
 17
60. Kresse, G.; Furthmüller, Efficiency of Ab-
Initio Total Energy Calculations for Metals 
and Semiconductors Using a Plane-Wave 
Basis Set. J. Comput. Mat. Sci. 1996, 6, 15. 
 
97 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：黃炳照 計畫編號：97-2221-E-011-075-MY3 
計畫名稱：雙金屬單層觸媒於奈米金屬粒子上之沉積及其對有機小分子催化特性之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 3 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
