factors must cooperate to achieve complicated 
regulating mechanism. Recently, several high-
throughput technologies such as DNA sequencing, DNA 
microarray, and ChIP-chip data accumulate huge 
genetic information, accelerating the progress of 
using computational approaches to tackle the 
challenges of constructing gene regulatory network in 
silico. For many yeast transcription factors, the 
transcription factor binding sites (TFBSs) of a 
transcription factor and the list of its potential 
regulated genes are analyzed and validated through 
many studies from many heterogeneous data resources. 
Alternatively, this project aims at incorporating 
several learning skills of structural bioinformatics 
to facilitate the study of constructing gene 
regulatory network in yeast. Three research subjects 
are important to this problem, including (1) correct 
prediction of DNA-binding residues； (2) discovering 
potential physical interacting residue pairs for two 
cooperating transcription factors； and (3) 
construction of reliable structure models for protein 
DNA-binding domains. In this project, several tools 
previously developed by our research group for 
analyzing protein sequences are employed, including 
algorithms of sequential pattern mining and protein 
disorder prediction. The proposed tools have been 
demonstrated to perform well in detecting DNA binding 
sites and residues of transcription factors as well 
as the binding interface of protein-protein 
interactions. To realize the proposed idea, the 
protein-DNA complexes existing in PDB (protein data 
bank) database are collected and analyzed to 
construct the propensity table for different 
combinations of amino acids and nucleotide bases. 
After the DNA-binding domain is predicted and the 
structural model is constructed, each predicted DNA 
binding residues are assigned with the most potential 
binding partner (bases). Through this procedure, the 
previously published transcription factor binding 
sites for a transcription factor can be compared or 
validated from the curated knowledge. 
 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■ 成 果 報 告   □期中進度報告 
 
酵母菌轉錄因子與其 DNA 鍵結區域互動模式之預測與分析(二) 
 
 
計畫類別：■ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 98－2221－E－002－137－MY2 
執行期間：2009 年 08 月 01 日至 2011 年 10 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：陳倩瑜 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：陳艾彌、趙健合、胡家誠、吳柏均、童翊安 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  ■完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各兩份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年■二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：國立臺灣大學生物產業機電工程學系暨研究所 
 
中   華   民   國  101  年  1  月   31  日 
 3
for two cooperating transcription factors; and (3) construction of reliable structure models for 
protein DNA-binding domains. In this project, several tools previously developed by our research 
group for analyzing protein sequences are employed, including algorithms of sequential pattern 
mining and protein disorder prediction. The proposed tools have been demonstrated to perform 
well in detecting DNA binding sites and residues of transcription factors as well as the binding 
interface of protein-protein interactions. The predicted information is believed to be useful to 
constructing the interacting modes of transcription factors and the DNA binding elements. To 
realize the proposed idea, the protein-DNA complexes existing in PDB (protein data bank) 
database are collected and analyzed to construct the propensity table for different combinations of 
amino acids and nucleotide bases. After the DNA-binding domain is predicted and the structural 
model is constructed, each predicted DNA binding residues are assigned with the most potential 
binding partner (bases). Through this procedure, the previously published transcription factor 
binding sites for a transcription factor can be compared or validated from the curated knowledge. 
If the prediction is consistent with literature annotation, the predicted structural model and 
interacting mode between protein-DNA interactions will be deposited into database for future 
applications. 
 
Keywords: protein-DNA interactions, DNA-binding residues, modeling of DNA-binding domains 
 
三、前言 
 
本計畫將為本主持人 97 年度國科會計畫「酵母菌轉錄因子與其 DNA 鍵結區域互動模式之
預測與分析」之連續性計畫，旨於延續目前之初步研究成果，進一步提升計算方法的預測
準確度，所開發之演算法將陸續建置服務網頁介面，以利於後續研究之進行與發展。 
 
轉錄因子在生物的基因調控網路中扮演非常重要的角色，一個轉錄因子可能同時是多個不
同基因的調控因子，而一個基因則可能需要多個轉錄因子以複雜的形式結合或搭配才得以
順利進行基因表現。在這之中，了解各個轉錄因子分別調控哪些目標基因(target genes)，一
直是非常受到矚目的問題(1,2)。近幾年，高效能的基因體分析工具，如 DNA 微陣列晶片
(microarray)、染色質免疫沈澱結合 DNA 晶片(ChIP-chip)、以及染色質免疫沈澱結合新一代
定序技術(ChIP-seq)，產生大量的基因體與蛋白體相關資料，促成以計算方法重建基因調控
網路之可能性。以酵母菌為例，許多研究整合序列、基因表現、與 ChIP-chip 等資訊，試圖
更進一步確定各個轉錄因子的鍵結特徵(binding motifs)與其目標基因分別為何(3-16)。 
 
近年來，隨著蛋白質序列與結構資訊不斷地被解析出來，許多研究開始從結構生物學的角
度來分析蛋白質與 DNA 究竟如何辨識彼此的身份，進而產生鍵結促使生理調控順利進行
(17,18)。目前，蛋白質結構資訊庫 Protein Data Bank (簡稱 PDB)(19)，收錄超過兩千多個蛋
白質-DNA 複合物(complexes)。這些結構提供了豐富的資訊，幫助我們了解蛋白質與 DNA
如何結合。其互動模式有單一蛋白質以單一介面與 DNA 產生鍵結，或是單一蛋白質以多個
區域和 DNA 產生鍵結，或是由兩個相同的蛋白質以合作的方式與 DNA 產生鍵結，或由多
個不同種類的蛋白質，以複合物的形式與 DNA 產生鍵結。更多範例可參考(18)。 
 5
 
圖一. 預測兩互動蛋白質可能產生實際鍵結之序列片段配對 
 
 
B. 利用同源模擬法或 ab initio 結構預測方法建構轉錄因子可能與 DNA 鍵結區的結構模型 
有了上述的序列特徵分析，我們可以將一轉錄因子序列上最有可能成為 DNA 鍵結區的序列
片段抽出(約 50~120 的長度)，然後進行 DNA 鍵結胺基酸之預測與區域結構模式之建立。
如 圖二之流程圖所示，我們首先利用 Rosetta 建構 10000 個可能結構(decoys)，然後搭配
表面胺基酸預測方法，篩選出其結構與表面胺基酸預測結果一致之結構。最後再搭配
HADDOCK 嵌合軟體預測其與 DNA 之結合模式。 
首先進行蛋白質A之序列探勘 
再利用蛋白質A之保
留序列片段尋找各自
對應的蛋白質B片段
將兩蛋白質
連接在一起 連接在一起之同源序列 
蛋白質 A 蛋白質 B
BLAST 
同源序列 
蛋白質 A 蛋白質 B
? 
 7
 
圖三. 從蛋白質結構預測其與 DNA 結合模式之方法流程圖。其中，紅色條狀結構為
MAGIIC-PRO 所找到的保留性胺基酸，而黃色條狀結構則是我們所預測的分數最高之
DNA 結合單元。 
 
D. 應用特徵探勘演算法於預測轉錄因子交互作用 
本計畫除了探討蛋白質與 DNA 之結合模式外，其中所發生的蛋白質-蛋白質交互作用對轉
錄因子如何啟動調控機制也扮演關鍵角色。我們先前先使用蛋白質序列資訊預測轉錄因子
之間可能發生之交互作用，接下來輔以染色質免疫沈澱結合 DNA 晶片(Chromatin-IP 
microarray, ChIP-chip)資料進一步篩選酵母菌轉錄因子之間的交互作用。本實驗室研究團隊
過去開發尋找酵母菌中不連續的鍵結特徵(gapped binding motifs)之演算法(21)，此研究使用
序列特徵演算法作為基礎，引入 ChIP-chip 資料所提供的鍵結強度，並搭配酵母菌相關物種
之序列保留性，成功地開發出更適合此問題的排序方法。本計畫以此預測結果為基礎，開
發預測轉錄因子間交互作用的演算法 simTFBS，如 圖四所示，此演算法包含四個分析步驟：
(1)針對單一 ChIP-chip 資料尋找轉錄因子結合特徵；(2)利用(1)所得之結合特徵，尋找可能
產生交互作用之轉錄因子配對；(3)利用(1)所得之結合特徵，篩選轉錄因子配對各自之調控
基因集合；(4)使用重新篩選出的基因集合進行交互資訊(mutual information, MI)分析。完整
之方法描述詳見附件二之已發表論文：De novo motif discovery facilitates identification of 
interactions between transcription factors in Saccharomyces cerevisiae。 
 
 9
勘演算法所找到的保留性區塊數量來評估，我們一共找到 974 個保留性區塊，其中有 575
個(~60%)確實靠近蛋白質-蛋白質互動介面。在 92 個兩邊都有距離可以進行評估的測試組
當中，其中 77 組(83.7%)我們的方法可以成功預測蛋白質-蛋白質互動之胺基酸配對。 
 
B. 利用同源模擬法或 ab initio 結構預測方法建構轉錄因子可能與 DNA 鍵結區的結構模型 
針對此問題，我們一共蒐集 17 個轉錄因子，針對其 DNA 結合區域進行結構預測。實驗結
果顯示，我們的方法可以有效提升選擇正確結構之能力，在 17 個測試資料中，我們的方法
提升了十四個測試資料的預測結果，比任何一個所比較的能量計算評分函數都還要好。我
們將所建構之結構模型，利用 HADDOCK 進行蛋白質-DNA 嵌合預測，如 圖五所示。然而，
目前的實驗結果顯示，使用計算方法建構之結構進行蛋白質-DNA 嵌合預測( 圖五(a)與(b))，
其結果並不如使用實驗方法解析之結構模型( 圖五(c))，而計算方法所得之蛋白質-DNA 複合
體，與真實之複合體相比較( 圖五(d))，也仍有所差距。因此，本計畫未來將持續改善所開
發之計算方法之準確度，以期達到計畫規劃之目標。 
 (a)  (b) 
(c) (d) 
 
圖五. 使用 HADDOCK 嵌合軟體預測結果：(a) 使用我們的方法選擇的結構進行嵌合預
測；(b) 使用最好的預測結構進行嵌合預測；(c) 使用實驗結出的結構進行嵌合預測；(d)
原有實驗解出的蛋白質-DNA 複合體。 
 11
 
D. 應用特徵探勘演算法於預測轉錄因子交互作用 
如前面所述，本計畫開發可以針對可能合作之轉錄因子配對預測其結合區與結合胺基酸，
為了更進一步篩選出可能合作之轉錄因子配對，本計畫將本研究團隊過去所開發之序列特
徵探勘演算法，應用於酵母菌的轉錄因子 ChIP-chip 資料，預測極有可能發生交互作用之轉
錄因子配對，共 221 配對。如 圖七所示，我們所提出之演算法 simTFBS，比起一般相關研
究常用的簡易方法更能準確預測可能發生交互作用之轉錄因子配對。更多結果與討論請參
考附件二之已發表論文。 
 
圖七. 比較 simTFBS 與三種簡易預測方法之預測準確性。我們所使用的參考答案包含 383
轉錄因子配對，所提出之方法 simTFBS 一共預測了 221 配對。 (a)每一種方法之正確預測
累計圖；(b)每一種方法之預測準確性。在相同標準下：(MI > 0.005)，不同方法預測之轉
錄因子配對數：simTFBS: 221; Pc-0.01: 1499; Pc-0.001: 980; Pc-hybrid: 1797。 
 13
comparison of yeast species to identify genes and regulatory elements. Nature, 423, 
241-254. 
17. Sarai, A. and Kono, H. (2005) PROTEIN-DNA recognition patterns and predictions. 
Annual Review of Biophysics and Biomolecular Structure, 34, 379-398. 
18. Garvie, C.W. and Wolberger, C. (2001) Recognition of specific DNA sequences. Mol Cell, 
8, 937-946. 
19. Berman, H.M., Westbrook, J., Feng, Z., Gilliland, G., Bhat, T.N., Weissig, H., Shindyalov, 
I.N. and Bourne, P.E. (2000) The Protein Data Bank. Nucleic Acids Res, 28, 235-242. 
20. Hsu, C.M., Chen, C.Y. and Liu, B.J. (2006) MAGIIC-PRO: detecting functional 
signatures by efficient discovery of long patterns in protein sequences. Nucleic Acids Res, 
34, W356-W361. 
21. Chen, C.Y., Tsai, H.K., Hsu, C.M., May Chen, M.J., Hung, H.G., Huang, G.T.W. and Li, 
W.H. (2008) Discovering gapped binding sites of yeast transcription factors. Proceedings 
of the National Academy of Sciences, 105, 2527. 
 
 
七、研究成果自評 
 
本計畫已順利完成以下目標：  
第一目標：考慮有可能相互合作的轉錄因子配對，預測其鍵結區域與胺基酸配對；其
中所使用之 MAGIIC-PRO 網頁服務，本計畫亦將其演算法彙整成期刊論文發表[附件
三]； 
第二目標：利用同源模擬法或 ab initio 結構預測方法建構轉錄因子可能與 DNA 鍵結區
的結構模型； 
第三目標：利用轉錄因子與 DNA 鍵結區之結構模型，預測轉錄因子與 DNA 之結合模
式[附件一]； 
第四目標：利用 ChIP-chip 資料進一步篩選可能相互合作的轉錄因子配對[附件三]； 
 
本計畫執行期間一共發表三篇期刊論文如下： 
1.  [附件一] Chien-Chih Wang and Chien-Yu Chen*, Predicting DNA-binding Locations and 
Orientation on Proteins Using Knowledge-based Learning of Geometric Properties, 
Proteome Science, 9(Suppl 1):S11, 2011.  
2. [附件二] Mei-Ju May Chen, Lih-Ching Chou, Tsung-Ting Hsieh, Ding-Dar Lee, Kai-Wei 
Liu, Chi-Yuan Yu, Yen-Jen Oyang, Huai-Kuang Tsai*, and Chien-Yu Chen*, De novo motif 
discovery facilitates identification of interactions between transcription factors in 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae, accepted by Bioinformatics, 2012.  
3. [附件三] Chen-Ming Hsu, Chien-Yu Chen*, and Baw-Jhiune Liu, WildSpan: Mining 
Structured Motifs from Protein Sequences, Algorithms for Molecular Biology, 6:6, 2011.  
 
 
 
Background
Gene regulation in organisms relies on specific protein-
DNA recognitions in a correct way. Recently, many
computational methods have been proposed to predict
binding sites on both proteins and DNA [1,2].
Sequence-based approaches employ machine learning
approaches and training data from structure database to
predict DNA-binding sites on proteins [3-5]. On the
other hand, pattern mining or multiple sequence align-
ment techniques are usually incorporated with large-
scale molecular binding information such as chromatin
immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments to discover
protein-binding sites on DNA sequences [6-8].
In recent years, many experimentally determined pro-
tein structure models are extensively studied to under-
stand and decipher the binding mechanisms of protein-
DNA interactions [9]. With protein-DNA complexes,
structure-based algorithms [10-12] construct consensus
or profiles of binding sites to complement the sequence-
based approaches for identifying transcription factor
binding sites. We also have many structure-based meth-
ods for predicting DNA-binding sites on proteins using
both sequence and structure information [13-15].
Although many methods have been proposed to predict
protein-DNA interactions, it remains a challenging task
to unveil the exact binding conformation of protein-
DNA interactions without crystal complexes.
In addition to de novo prediction methods, researchers
previously applied structure alignment on a query pro-
tein against existing protein-DNA complexes for pre-
dicting binding sites and constructing potential binding
models [16]. Another way to generate protein-DNA
complexes for a query sequence is using homology
modelling [17]. Sequence alignment is performed on the
query protein and its homologous sequences with com-
plex structures. The advantage of using this approach is
no protein structure is required for the query protein in
advance. Furthermore, with unbound protein structure
available, docking programs [18-20] can be employed to
predict the binding locations and orientation between
proteins and DNA molecules. Protein-DNA docking is
capable to generate novel complexes, which is in parti-
cularly useful for the query protein that is not similar to
any protein chains in the complex database. However,
the predicting accuracy of molecular docking still largely
relies on computing resources and the prior knowledge
about DNA sequence and conformation.
It has been shown in a recent study that the direction-
ality of normal vectors on protein surface is correlated
with that of DNA axes [21]. In other words, it has
potential to investigate the DNA-binding location and
orientation on protein structures even when protein-
DNA complexes are not available. This observation
motivates the current study. We first characterize geo-
metric property between protein side chains and DNA
bases according to a set of existing protein-DNA com-
plexes. Then, several learning algorithms are employed
to analyze the query structure and provide prediction of
DNA-binding locations and orientation. More specifi-
cally, the proposed method is developed to predict the
direction of the tangent line to the helix curve of the
DNA groove where the DNA-binding protein is going
to bind. The predicted information can be used as the
initial guess of docking tools or serve as supplementary
information to improve the prediction accuracy of dock-
ing results.
Methods
When given the structure of a query protein, the pro-
posed method first identifies a subgroup of conserved
residues that form a compact cluster in space and are
categorized to have high DNA-binding propensity. The
discovered set of residues is considered as a basic DNA-
binding unit (DBU) which is assumed to protrude into
DNA grooves, no matter major or minor, for recogniz-
ing DNA sequences. To predict the DNA-binding orien-
tation of a local region of the protein-DNA binding
interface, we apply principal component analysis (PCA)
on some particularly selected atom coordinates in a
DBU, in order to determine the direction of the tangent
line to the helix curve of the DNA groove bound by the
DBU. With the detected DBU, we construct the distri-
bution of each base type around the DBU based on a
pre-calculated knowledgebase of 80 geometric models.
In the following subsections, we describe each proce-
dure of the proposed method in details.
Collecting training and testing data
The training data used for constructing the knowledge-
base was prepared by referring to [16]. This dataset was
collected based on the July 2007 release of Protein Data
Bank (PDB) database [22], containing only X-ray struc-
tures of protein-DNA complexes with resolution better
than 3.0 Å. Protein sequence shorter than 40 amino
acids were excluded. The DNA molecule must contain
at least six base pairs. It is also required that the protein
chain in the complex must have at least five DNA-bind-
ing residues (distance to DNA atoms < 4.5 Å). Further-
more, member redundancy is removed by performing
sequence alignment, resulting in 179 DNA-binding
domains, belonging to 170 PDB files. We name it as the
dataset PDB170.
Since the proposed method is a knowledge-based
approach, it is important to have an independent test
set in which the redundancy between training data and
testing data has been carefully eliminated. For this
Wang and Chen Proteome Science 2011, 9(Suppl 1):S11
http://www.proteomesci.com/content/9/S1/S11
Page 2 of 9
atoms in amino acids to represent the spatial property of
each residue, and use PCA to predict the direction of the
tangent line to the helix curve of DNA grooves. The first
selected atom is the atom with the highest DNA-binding
propensity in an amino acid. The second and the third
atoms selected to represent the amino acid are the CA
and C atoms on the backbone.
Predicting locations of DNA bases
Given a predicted DBU and the 80 geometric models of
Ma-b in our knowledgebase, the distribution of a parti-
cular base type b around the DBU in space is estimated
as:
P eb C M
r C i M
aa r b
i
aa r b
( ) | | | |( )
( )
x
x y
=
−
−
∈
−
∈
∑ ∑1 221 12  
-
(2)
, where x is a 3-dimensional vector, representing the
coordinates of a point in space, yi presents the 3-dimen-
sional coordinates of the atom i, aa(r) stands for the
amino acid type of the residue r, and C is the set of resi-
dues in the selected DBU. In this study, we empirically
used the number of residues belonging to the amino
acid type aa(r) in the DBU to normalize the contributed
scores before accumulating them.
After the probability estimating where a base is likely
to present is modelled, the next step is to find the posi-
tions with the maximum probability efficiently. In this
study, we used all the base positions collected in the
models as the sampling space. This space was reduced
first by removing potential coordinates falling in protein
cores [27]. The possibility of a base atom falling in the
core of the protein was modelled by the following equa-
tion:
P
P
ecore ij
k P
ij k
( )
| |
x
x y
=
−
∈
−∑1
2
2  1
2
(3)
, where xij is the 3-dimentaional coordinates of the
atom i in the base j and yk presents the 3-dimensional
coordinates of the atom k in the set of CA atoms of the
query protein P. These Pcore(xij) scores were sorted in
descending order, and we only kept the bases with low
scores until we first reached the condition where the
distance between the base and protein is <2Å. Second,
the sampling space was further reduced by an incremen-
tal clustering procedure. The root mean square devia-
tion (RMSD) values for any pairs of bases in the same
model were calculated in advance. Then, the bases were
examined according to the scores of Eq. (2) in descend-
ing order. A base was selected if all of its RMSD values
to the previously selected bases are >5. Finally, we
reported the position with the highest score in Eq. (2)
as the predicted center location of DNA bases that will
be bound by a DBU. In Figure 2, we use an example to
summarize all the procedures of the proposed method.
Results
In this section, we first define how the performance of
the proposed method was evaluated. After that, we
demonstrate that how the proposed method can be used
to predict DNA-binding conformation for a large DNA-
binding interface. A TATA-box binding protein was
used as an example in this situation.
Evaluation of prediction accuracy
To evaluate the accuracy of predicting the direction of
the tangent line to the helix curve of the DNA groove at
the point where a DBU binds, we first record the center
Figure 1 Examples of the geometric models.
Wang and Chen Proteome Science 2011, 9(Suppl 1):S11
http://www.proteomesci.com/content/9/S1/S11
Page 4 of 9
structure is an unbound model. We use another structure
model (1TBP:B) for the same protein (TATA-box binding
protein of Saccharomyces cerevisiae) to predict DNA-bind-
ing locations and orientation by the proposed method. In
Figure 4(b), we show that the predictions are generally
consistent with that derived from the bound structure
shown in Figure 4(a). This reveals the potential of the
proposed method in future applications of predicting
exact binding mechanisms using unbound structures of
DNA-binding proteins alone.
Discussion
The four failures on location prediction in Table 1
implied that some of the predicted DBUs are not
Figure 3 Demonstration of how the predicted orientation is evaluated. The red circle stands for the center of a DBU-binding region. In this
case, the DBU (the shaded ellipse) protrudes into a major groove.
Table 1 Errors of the predicted locations and orientation on the 11 test cases (PDB11).
PDB ID and the chain ID Location error in Å Groove type to which the top-1 DBU binds Orientation error in degree
1KU7:A 0.8 Major 7.7
1RIO:A 3.6 Major 21.3
2R1J:L 8.7 NA NA
2Z3X:A 4.0 Minor 5.0
1A3Q:A 5.7 Major 19.6
3DFX:A 2.4 Major 10.7
2O49:A 8.8 NA NA
2E1C:A 23.2 NA NA
3ERE:D 2.7 Major 41.9
1BDT:A 13.6 NA NA
3CLC:A 5.1 Major 63.7
The four cases for which the proposed method failed to find a correct binding location are shown in italic form.
Wang and Chen Proteome Science 2011, 9(Suppl 1):S11
http://www.proteomesci.com/content/9/S1/S11
Page 6 of 9
residues achieves 10 successes among the 11 test cases.
The proposed method for discovering basic DNA-bind-
ing units achieves seven successes among the 10 good
cases from MAGIIC-PRO. Among the seven correctly
predicted DBUs, the constructed models identify correct
base locations for all the cases and the PCA analysis
successfully identify the tangent direction of the bound
groove on five cases. We concluded that the proposed
method could help to set the initial conditions of DNA
structure models for conducting protein-DNA docking
or serve as useful supplementary information in study-
ing protein-DNA interactions.
Acknowledgements
The authors would like to thank National Science Council of Republic of
China, Taiwan, for the financial support under the contracts: 98-2221-E-002-
137-MY2 and 99-2627-B-002-004.
This article has been published as part of Proteome Science Volume 9
Supplement 1, 2011: Proceedings of the International Workshop on
Computational Proteomics. The full contents of the supplement are available
online at http://www.proteomesci.com/supplements/9/S1.
Author details
1Department of Bio-Industrial Mechatronics Engineering, National Taiwan
University, Taipei 106, Taiwan. 2Department of Computer Science and
Information Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei 106, Taiwan.
Authors’ contributions
CYC initiated the study. CCW and CYC developed the methods together.
CCW implemented all the program codes and performed the analyses. CCW
and CYC interpreted the results and wrote the manuscript together. Both
authors read and approved the final manuscript.
Competing interests
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
Published: 14 October 2011
References
1. Sarai A, Kono H: Protein-DNA recognition patterns and predictions.
Annual Review of Biophysics and Biomolecular Structure 2005, 34:379-398.
2. Höglund A, Kohlbacher O: From sequence to structure and back again:
approaches for predicting protein-DNA binding. Proteome Science 2004,
2:3.
3. Ofran Y, Mysore V, Rost B: Prediction of DNA-binding residues from
sequence. Bioinformatics 2007, 23(13):I347-I353.
4. Hwang S, Gou ZK, Kuznetsov IB: DP-Bind: a Web server for sequence-
based prediction of DNA-binding residues in DNA-binding proteins.
Bioinformatics 2007, 23(5):634-636.
5. Lu H, Carson MB, Langlois R: NAPS: a residue-level nucleic acid-binding
prediction server. Nucleic Acids Research 2010, 38:W431-W435.
6. Harbison CT, Gordon DB, Lee TI, Rinaldi NJ, Macisaac KD, Danford TW,
Hannett NM, Tagne JB, Reynolds DB, Yoo J, et al: Transcriptional regulatory
code of a eukaryotic genome. Nature 2004, 431(7004):99-104.
7. Chen CY, Tsai HK, Hsu CM, Chen MJM, Hung HG, Huang GTW, Li WH:
Discovering gapped binding sites of yeast transcription factors.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of
America 2008, 105(7):2527-2532.
8. Ji HK, Jiang H, Ma WX, Johnson DS, Myers RM, Wong WH: An integrated
software system for analyzing ChIP-chip and ChIP-seq data. Nature
Biotechnology 2008, 26(11):1293-1300.
9. Luscombe NM, Laskowski RA, Thornton JM: Amino acid-base interactions:
a three-dimensional analysis of protein-DNA interactions at an atomic
level. Nucleic Acids Research 2001, 29(13):2860-2874.
10. Kono H, Sarai A: Structure-based prediction of DNA target sites by
regulatory proteins. Proteins-Structure Function and Genetics 1999,
35(1):114-131.
11. Morozov AV, Havranek JJ, Baker D, Siggia ED: Protein-DNA binding
specificity predictions with structural models. Nucleic Acids Research 2005,
33(18):5781-5798.
12. Morozov AV, Siggia ED: Connecting protein structure with predictions of
regulatory sites. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the
United States of America 2007, 104(17):7068-7073.
13. Ahmad S, Gromiha MM, Sarai A: Analysis and prediction of DNA-binding
proteins and their binding residues based on composition, sequence
and structural information. Bioinformatics 2004, 20(4):477-486.
14. Zhou HX, Tjong H: DISPLAR: an accurate method for predicting DNA-
binding sites on protein surfaces. Nucleic Acids Research 2007,
35(5):1465-1477.
15. Kuznetsov IB, Gou ZK, Li R, Hwang SW: Using evolutionary and structural
information to predict DNA-binding sites on DNA-binding proteins.
Proteins-Structure Function and Bioinformatics 2006, 64(1):19-27.
16. Gao M, Skolnick J: DBD-Hunter: a knowledge-based method for the
prediction of DNA-protein interactions. Nucleic Acids Research 2008,
36(12):3978-3992.
17. Contreras-Moreira B, Branger PA, Collado-Vides J: TFmodeller: comparative
modelling of protein-DNA complexes. Bioinformatics 2007,
23(13):1694-1696.
Figure 5 Orientation prediction based on the DNA-binding
residues predicted by DISPLAR The query protein (2R1J:L) is
shown in grey using Strands presentation. The predicted DNA-
binding residues are shown in yellow using Sticks presentation. The
predicted tangent direction of the DNA groove is plotted using a
green stick, and the real DNA structure is presented in CPK color,
with one strand in Sticks presentation and the other strand in
Ribbons presentation.
Wang and Chen Proteome Science 2011, 9(Suppl 1):S11
http://www.proteomesci.com/content/9/S1/S11
Page 8 of 9
 © Oxford University Press 2005 1 
Category 
De novo motif discovery facilitates identification of interactions 
between transcription factors in Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
Mei-Ju May Chen1, Lih-Ching Chou2, Tsung-Ting Hsieh3, Ding-Dar Lee2, Kai-Wei Liu2, Chi-
Yuan Yu4, Yen-Jen Oyang1,2,4,5, Huai-Kuang Tsai6,*, and Chien-Yu Chen1,3,5,* 
1Genome and Systems Biology Degree Program, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan,  
2Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan,  
3Department of Bio-Industrial Mechatronics Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan,  
4Graduate Institute of Biomedical Electronics and Bioinformatics, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan,  
5Center for Systems Biology, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan, 
6Institute of Information Science, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan 
Associate Editor: XXXXXXX 
 
ABSTRACT 
Motivation: Gene regulation involves complicated mechanisms 
such as cooperativity between a set of transcription factors (TFs). 
Previous studies have used target genes shared by two TFs as a 
clue to infer TF-TF interactions. However, this task remains chal-
lenging because the target genes with low binding affinity are fre-
quently omitted by experimental data, especially when a single strict 
threshold is employed. This paper aims at improving the accuracy of 
inferring TF-TF interactions by incorporating motif discovery as a 
fundamental step when detecting overlapping targets of TFs based 
on ChIP-chip data.  
Results: The proposed method, simTFBS, outperforms three naïve 
methods that adopt fixed thresholds when inferring TF-TF interac-
tions based on ChIP-chip data. In addition, simTFBS is compared 
with two advanced methods and demonstrates its advantages in 
predicting TF-TF interactions. By comparing simTFBS with predic-
tions based on the set of available annotated yeast TF binding mo-
tifs, we demonstrate that the good performance of simTFBS is in-
deed coming from the additional motifs found by the proposed pro-
cedures.  
Contact: hktsai@iis.sinica.edu.tw; chienyuchen@ntu.edu.tw 
Supplementary information: Supplementary data are available at 
Bioinformatics online. 
1 INTRODUCTION  
Transcriptional regulation plays a key role in gene expression. It 
typically takes place after the binding of transcription factors (TFs) 
to specific promoter regions of genes. Usually, gene expression is 
regulated by a group of TFs instead of a single TF. When the influ-
ence of one TF on its target genes depends on the presence or ab-
sence of another TF, it is said that these two TFs have interactions 
in gene regulation (Wang et al., 2009). This paper aims at discov-
ering TF-TF interactions that happen on the TF binding sites 
(TFBSs) of the target genes the two TFs share. Correct predictions 
of such interactions are important in studying gene regulation. 
  
*To whom correspondence should be addressed.  
So far, several types of TF-TF interactions have been observed 
and discussed. As exemplified in Fig. 1, two TFs, TF1 and TF2, 
might form a complex and then bind to a common TFBS, which is 
often represented by a TF binding motif (Fig. 1(a)). Alternatively, 
they might utilize the DNA-binding domain of TF1 to bind to 
DNA (Fig. 1(b)). In this case, we say that TF2 indirectly binds to 
the TFBS (piggy back) (Kar and Adhya, 2001). In both of Fig. 1(a) 
and Fig. 1(b), the two TFs interact with each other through direct 
protein-protein interactions (PPIs). On the other hand, it is possible 
that both TF1 and TF2 have their own DNA-binding domains and 
respective TF binding motifs. As exemplified in Fig. 1(c), TF1 and 
TF2 may not have direct contact but transcription is affected when 
either one is absent. In this type of TF-TF interaction, the TFs re-
gulate expression of the target genes without directly interacting 
with each other. Fig. 1(d) demonstrates the situation that TF1 and 
TF2 compete for the same TFBS. Furthermore, more complicated 
situations might exist. For example, in Fig. 1(e), TF1 and TF2 
alternatively cooperate with another TF to regulate genes. 
Correct prediction of TF-TF interactions is a prerequisite for un-
derstanding transcriptional regulation. According to the fact that an 
interacting TF pair would jointly regulate a set of target genes, it is 
intuitively considered that the interaction of a TF pair can be de-
tected by exploring the degree of shared target genes (Datta and 
Zhao, 2008). Before going into interaction inference, a reliable list 
of the target genes of a TF should be constructed. Recent advances 
of high-throughput tools provide such valuable information. For 
example, chromatin immunoprecipitation chip (ChIP-chip) meas-
ures the binding affinity of TFs on specific DNA sequences in vivo 
(Buck and Lieb, 2004; Harbison et al., 2004; Ren et al., 2000). 
Two groups previously published considerably large data sets of 
ChIP-chip for yeast (Harbison et al., 2004; Lee et al., 2002). These 
resources have been widely utilized to predict TF binding motifs 
(Chen et al., 2008; Eden et al., 2007; MacIsaac et al., 2006; 
Narlikar et al., 2006; Shamir et al., 2008) and discover cooperating 
TFs (Balaji et al., 2006; Banerjee and Zhang, 2003; Chang et al., 
2006; Datta and Zhao, 2008; Kato et al., 2004; Pilpel et al., 2001; 
Tsai et al., 2005) in recent years. Another useful technique to 
 © Oxford University Press 2005 3 
with a long gap. In this study, the maximum gap length was set as 15. A 
motif in eTFBS is represented as a collection of compatible consensus 
sequences. Substrings in promoter sequences were detected as predicted 
TFBSs (also called motif instances) if a match was found to consensus 
sequences (e.g. GCGnATC) using regular expressions. In this study, a 
motif is also represented as a position frequency matrix (PFM), which was 
constructed by the set of predicted TFBSs from different target genes. 
Identification of similar TF binding motifs for a TF pair (procedure 2 in 
Fig. 2). To be a pair of TFs for interaction prediction, it was required in 
advance that the number of common target genes from the respective posi-
tive sets collected in ‘procedure 1’ must be greater than zero. After that, we 
checked whether there exists a pair of similar motifs across the motif lists 
of the two TFs. The similarity of two motifs was examined by the follow-
ing two scores: (1) the similarity score between their PFMs; and (2) the 
degree of overlap between two predicted TFBS lists within the promoters 
of the common genes. For a TF pair, we first calculated the similarity 
scores of PFMs, as in (Chen et al., 2008), between any pair of the ten top-
scored motifs from the two TFs. The TF pairs with at least one score (100 
combinations in total) greater than 0.8 are preserved. Then, for each motif 
pair with the similarity score greater than 0.8, the predicted TFBSs in pro-
moter regions of the common genes were respectively collected. A com-
mon TFBS was claimed as long as the motif instances from two TFs shared 
at least half of the positions (nucleotides). Let NA (NB) be the number of 
TFBSs from TF A (TF B), and NC be the number of common TFBSs. It is 
supposed that the two lists of motif instances would be highly concurrent if 
the two motifs represent the same TF binding motif. In this regard, two 
motifs are considered as the same if the overlap score, 
 
Fig. 2. The flow chart of the proposed method, simTFBS. 
De novo motif discovery facilitates identification of interactions between transcription factors in Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
5 
compared to simTFBS. On the other hand, using a loose cutoff (e.g. 
Pc = 0.01) might retrieve low-affinity target genes but also include 
a great amount of false targets, resulting in false predictions of TF-
TF interactions. For the Pc-hybrid method described in subsection 
2.3, the results in Fig. 3 indicated that Pc-hybrid generally per-
forms better than Pc-0.001 and Pc-0.01 within the region where the 
figures were plotted. However, fewer true positives were discov-
ered by Pc-hybrid than Pc-0.001 among the list of top-100 ranked 
TF pairs. On the other hand, simTFBS, which combines motif 
discovery with the concept of Pc-hybrid, successfully improves the 
predicted results when compared with the three naïve methods.  
To see whether the performance of simTFBS is significantly dif-
ferent from the other three naïve methods, we converted the num-
ber of true positives into proportions ranging from 0 to 1 and per-
formed a Kolmogorov-Smirnov (KS) test. The results from KS test 
corroborate with our hypothesis that simTFBS is superior to the 
other methods with extreme significance (Supplementary Table 
S1). In addition, we performed one-sided Fisher’s exact test to see 
whether using different methods (simTFBS versus the compared 
one) cause significant changes in the distributions of true and false 
positives among the 221 predicted pairs (Supplementary Table S2). 
The highest significance was observed on the difference between 
simTFBS and Pc-0.01, followed by Pc-0.001 and then Pc-hybrid. 
In Supplementary Table S2, we further grouped the numbers of 
true and false negatives in gradient of the 50 top-ranked TF pairs 
and re-performed the Fisher’s exact test in different groups. It is 
then observed that simTFBS has superior performance over Pc-
0.01 among the 1~150 top-ranked TF pairs, while the superiority 
of simTFBS over both Pc-hybrid and Pc-0.001 was observed 
among the 51~100 and the 101~150 top-ranked TF pairs, respec-
tively. These results demonstrated that simTFBS is able to assign 
true interacting TF pairs with better scores by refining the target 
gene sets through the motif discovery process. In addition to the 
naïve methods considered here, a GSEA-based (Gene set enrich-
ment analysis; Subramanian et al., 2005) method was also consid-
ered as a potential method without exploiting motif information for 
comparison. The GSEA-based method has similar performance 
with the naïve approaches adopted here. The relevant materials and 
discussions can be found in the Supplementary Material. 
3.2 Comparison with two recent studies 
The first study for comparison is the work presented by Datta et al. 
(Datta and Zhao, 2008), where the authors proposed a method to 
dynamically determine the threshold for collecting the target gene 
set of a TF based on the EM algorithm. In the study of Datta et al., 
the derived gene lists were then analyzed by log-linear models to 
infer cooperative binding. The predictions based on log-linear 
models were evaluated in the same way as was done for simTFBS 
in Fig. 3, denoted as ‘EM-LLM’ in Fig. 4. In addition, we also 
conducted the comparison of combining the dynamically deter-
mined thresholds by the EM approach with the MI score (Eq. 1) 
adopted in this study to predict TF-TF interactions (denoted as 
‘EM-MI’ in Fig. 4). It is shown in Fig. 4 that simTFBS outper-
forms both EM-LLM and EM-MI with significant improvements. 
The related statistical tests are provided in Supplementary Table 
S3.  
The second study for comparison is the work presented by Yu et 
al. (Yu et al., 2006), Motif-PIE. Motif-PIE also utilizes a motif 
discovery procedure when predicting interacting TF pairs. It col-
lected known target genes from literature or databases and em-
ployed Lee et al.’s ChIP-chip data (Lee et al., 2002) to infer com-
mon target genes and then predict TF-TF interactions. Though it 
was claimed in Motif-PIE that 152 TFs were employed to make 
predictions, we only successfully acquired a list of 126 TFs based 
on the descriptions of data preparation provided in Motif-PIE. 
Among the 126 TFs, 115 TFs are in common with the 203 TFs 
used in this study. In this regard, the comparison is based on the 
115 TFs. The comparison shown in Fig. 5 reveals that simTFBS 
significantly outperforms Motif-PIE in predicting TF-TF interact-
ing pairs. The related statistical tests are provided in Supplemen-
tary Table S4. 
 
Fig. 3.	  Comparison of the proposed method with naïve methods of deter-
mining target genes for a TF. The validation list containing 383 interacting 
pairs were used to evaluate the predicted 221 associated TF pairs when 
compared with three naïve methods. (a) Accumulated true positives in the
ranking list of each method; (b) Precision evaluation. (The total numbers of 
high-confident TF pairs (MI > 0.005) a method finally predicts are: 
simTFBS: 221; Pc-0.01: 1499; Pc-0.001: 980; Pc-hybrid: 1797) 
De novo motif discovery facilitates identification of interactions between transcription factors in Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
7 
several cutoffs of p-values from correlation coefficient test. The 
result shows that the predicted group behaves similarly to the an-
notated group, and both are superior to the average of 100 permu-
tations of randomly selected TF pairs. 
In addition to finding literature or expression data support for the 
predicted TF pairs, we also evaluated the biological meanings of 
the discovered motifs by comparing them with annotated TF bind-
ing motifs, since the proposed method also outputted motifs along 
with each TF interaction. These motifs play an essential role in the 
predicting procedures of simTFBS as they were used to refine the 
target gene sets. In this regard, the motifs along with each TF in-
teraction were compared to annotated TF binding motifs. It is ob-
served that more than 60% (146 motifs) of discovered motifs are 
similar (similarity score > 0.8) to known motifs. The information 
of annotated motifs could be used to partition the predicted pairs 
into four groups (Supplementary Fig. S2). There are 22 interac-
tions (Group 1) that are predicted based on a motif similar to both 
of the TFs’ annotated motifs (21 cases) and two motifs similar to 
each of the TF’s annotated motif, respectively (one case, STE12 
and TEC1). For 62 interactions (Group 2), the associated motif is 
similar to the annotated motif of only one of the TF pair. On the 
other hand, there are another 62 interactions (Group 3) predicted 
based on a motif similar to the annotated motif of another TF ra-
ther than the predicted TF pair. Finally, we have 75 interactions 
categorized as ‘Group 4’, of which the associated motifs are novel.  
We subsequently examined the precision of each group based on 
the validation list of TF-TF interactions, and it is observed that the 
precision of different groups changes dramatically. The highest 
precision (77.27%) was observed in ‘Group 1’, considerably supe-
rior to the other three groups (‘Group 2’: 38.71%, ‘Group 3’: 
19.35% and ‘Group 4’: 9.33%). It is noticed that the precision was 
dramatically declined to less than 10% when the information of 
annotated regulatory motifs was insufficient. This coincidence 
suggested that the TF-TF interactions categorized in ‘Group 1’ 
might be easier to be discovered (and thus are enriched in the col-
lected validation list) than TF-TF interactions associated with nov-
el motifs (Group 4). Two further observations also support this 
suspicion. First, the proportion of TF pairs with co-expression 
profiles is observed to be higher in 'Group 1' than in the other three 
groups (Supplementary Table S6). Second, we observed that the 
motifs that are similar to known TF binding motifs are more en-
riched in the high affinity targets of corresponding TFs in 'Group 1' 
when compared to the other three groups (Supplementary Table 
S7). Both observations reveal that the TF pairs categorized in 
‘Group 1' are easier to be discovered and thus have been largely 
studied. Therefore, the additional information provided by the 
other three groups might greatly help to enlarge the knowledge for 
TF-TF interactions. In addition, many TFs without annotated TF 
binding motifs are found to have the motifs of other TFs in their 
ChIP-chip data, resulting in some TPs in ‘Group 2’. Moreover, by 
de novo motif discovery, simTFBS could discover a TF-TF inter-
action mediated by another TF out of the predicted interacting pair, 
resulting in some TPs in ‘Group 3’.  
3.5 Investigation of the role of the predicted interac-
tions in influencing the network structure of anno-
tated interaction network 
We conducted network analysis to investigate the role of the pre-
dicted interactions in influencing the network structure of the exist-
ing interaction network (383 annotated interactions). The cluster-
ing coefficient for estimating modularity (Watts and Strogatz, 1998) 
was employed to analyze the new network. The definition of clus-
tering coefficient was described in the Supplementary Material. 
This analysis was executed by in-house perl programs utilizing 
‘Graph’ module. We investigated whether the clustering coeffi-
cient of the network is improved by incorporating the predicted 
221 pairs with the 383 annotated interactions (the new network 
contains 541 pairs in total, which include the 383 annotated inter-
actions and additional 158 predicted pairs). A permutation test was 
applied and the details are provided in the Supplementary Material. 
It is shown in Supplementary Fig. S3 that the clustering coefficient 
was significantly increased when the predicted TF-TF interactions 
were added (from green line to red line), while randomly generated 
interactions in general decrease this measurement. This result sug-
gests that the TF-TF interactions help to improve the modularity of 
the currently annotated interacting network which might be still 
largely incomplete. 
3.6 Limitations of simTFBS 
Since simTFBS heavily relies on the performance of the motif 
finding step, in some cases the procedure might be unable to dis-
cover TF-pairs due to the failed predictions of motif discovery. It 
was observed in some TFs that the known binding motifs were not 
found by eTFBS. For example, the binding motif of MIG1 was not 
found in the list of the ten motifs reported for the ChIP-chip data of 
MIG1. Though, the GAL4 binding motif was found in the ChIP-
chip data of GAL4, it was not enriched in the high affinity targets 
of MIG1. This resulted in the failure of predicting the interaction 
between GAL4 and MIG1. 
In addition, it was observed that many predictions were made 
based on a single shared motif (i.e., only one motif of the TFs in 
the pair was enriched in both TFs), instead of more than one motif 
as expected (i.e., both motifs of the TFs in the pair were enriched 
in both TFs). There are some potential reasons to explain why 
many of the predictions were made based on a single shared motif. 
First, the predicted TF pairs might be in the relationship of piggy 
back, e.g. INO4 and OPI1. Second, it is possible that one of the 
TFs does not have an annotated binding motif yet. So, we didn’t 
know whether it was found or not. Third, it is the failure of motif 
finding algorithm that did not discover the expected motif for one 
of the TFs. In fact, it is not the objective of simTFBS to find the 
complete set of binding motifs associated with the interacting TF 
pairs. It is shown in this study that the information of shared motifs 
improves the accuracy of predicting TF interactions, and one such 
motif should be enough to achieve this goal.  
There might be some potential biases associated with the design 
of simTFBS. We have provided relevant discussion regarding this 
issue in the Supplementary Material. In addition, though the pro-
posed method theoretically can predict all the interacting types 
elaborated in Fig. 1, it cannot tell the type of mechanisms without 
additional information such as DNA-binding domains on the TFs. 
In this regard, it is suggested to include more information regard-
ing direct or indirect binding derived by comparing ChIP and PBM 
data (Gordân et al., 2009) or information of enrichment of biologi-
RESEARCH Open Access
WildSpan: mining structured motifs from protein
sequences
Chen-Ming Hsu1, Chien-Yu Chen2* and Baw-Jhiune Liu3
Abstract
Background: Automatic extraction of motifs from biological sequences is an important research problem in study
of molecular biology. For proteins, it is desired to discover sequence motifs containing a large number of wildcard
symbols, as the residues associated with functional sites are usually largely separated in sequences. Discovering
such patterns is time-consuming because abundant combinations exist when long gaps (a gap consists of one or
more successive wildcards) are considered. Mining algorithms often employ constraints to narrow down the search
space in order to increase efficiency. However, improper constraint models might degrade the sensitivity and
specificity of the motifs discovered by computational methods. We previously proposed a new constraint model to
handle large wildcard regions for discovering functional motifs of proteins. The patterns that satisfy the proposed
constraint model are called W-patterns. A W-pattern is a structured motif that groups motif symbols into pattern
blocks interleaved with large irregular gaps. Considering large gaps reflects the fact that functional residues are not
always from a single region of protein sequences, and restricting motif symbols into clusters corresponds to the
observation that short motifs are frequently present within protein families. To efficiently discover W-patterns for
large-scale sequence annotation and function prediction, this paper first formally introduces the problem to solve
and proposes an algorithm named WildSpan (sequential pattern mining across large wildcard regions) that
incorporates several pruning strategies to largely reduce the mining cost.
Results: WildSpan is shown to efficiently find W-patterns containing conserved residues that are far separated in
sequences. We conducted experiments with two mining strategies, protein-based and family-based mining, to
evaluate the usefulness of W-patterns and performance of WildSpan. The protein-based mining mode of WildSpan
is developed for discovering functional regions of a single protein by referring to a set of related sequences (e.g.
its homologues). The discovered W-patterns are used to characterize the protein sequence and the results are
compared with the conserved positions identified by multiple sequence alignment (MSA). The family-based mining
mode of WildSpan is developed for extracting sequence signatures for a group of related proteins (e.g. a protein
family) for protein function classification. In this situation, the discovered W-patterns are compared with PROSITE
patterns as well as the patterns generated by three existing methods performing the similar task. Finally, analysis
on execution time of running WildSpan reveals that the proposed pruning strategy is effective in improving the
scalability of the proposed algorithm.
Conclusions: The mining results conducted in this study reveal that WildSpan is efficient and effective in
discovering functional signatures of proteins directly from sequences. The proposed pruning strategy is effective in
improving the scalability of WildSpan. It is demonstrated in this study that the W-patterns discovered by WildSpan
provides useful information in characterizing protein sequences. The WildSpan executable and open source codes
are available on the web (http://biominer.csie.cyu.edu.tw/wildspan).
* Correspondence: cychen@mars.csie.ntu.edu.tw
2Department of Bio-Industrial Mechatronics Engineering, National Taiwan
University, Taipei, 106, Taiwan
Full list of author information is available at the end of the article
Hsu et al. Algorithms for Molecular Biology 2011, 6:6
http://www.almob.org/content/6/1/6
© 2011 Hsu et al; licensee BioMed Central Ltd. This is an Open Access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in
any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.
words for locally conserved regions limits their applica-
tion in the analysis of protein sequences, in which con-
servative substitutions are frequently observed. In
addition, the unlimited gap flexibility in model 4 also
results in noises.
The model 5 presented in Table 1 was previously pro-
posed in our recent work [24] The algorithm MAGIIC
utilizes a combination of intra- and inter-block gap con-
straints to discover structured motifs like ‘A-x-C-x(2,3)-
D-F-x(10,198)-R-G-x(0,1)-D’. Such patterns have its
Figure 1 An example of structued motifs This motif is observed on the protein Ferredoxin-NADP reductase [Swiss-Prot: P10933] and
additional 150 Oxidoreductase FAD/NAD(P)-binding proteins from the InterPro entry [InterPro: IPR001433]. The motif is consisted of three local
conserved regions ‘R-x-Y-S’, ‘G-x-G-x(2)-P’, and ‘Y-x-C-G’, interleaved by two large gaps x(54,96) and x(65,111). When these three pattern blocks are
mapped onto the 3D structure of Ferredoxin-NADP reductase, it is shown that all the three blocks are close to the FAD/NAD(P) binding site.
Pattern blocks are plotted in sticks using different colors. The long gap between the first and the second blocks (the second and the third
blocks) is plotted with ribbons in orange (purple). The ligands FAD and NADP are shown as ball-and-stick in blue and red, respectively.
Table 1 Constraint models of gapped motifs employed in previous studies
Gap constraint
models
Descriptions Examples of existing
algorithms
Model 1 At least L non-wildcards should be present in a pattern of maximum length of W. (e.g. ‘A-x-K-H-x(2)- E’) Teiresias [6] and
SPLASH [4]
Model 2 A gap with a maximum flexibility FL is allowed between any pair of pattern symbols; related
constraints: maximum number of flexible gaps, maximum product of each flexibility. (e.g. ‘A-x(2,3)-W-x-
H-(4,6)-E’)
Pratt [19]
Model 3 A gap with a minimum length of LB (e.g. LB = 1) and a maximum length UB (e.g. UB = 10) is allowed
in between any pair of pattern symbols. (e.g. ‘A-W-x(1,5)-H-x(4,10)-E’)
Ref. [35,36]
Model 4 A gap of any length (denoted as *) is allowed in between any pair of continuous words in a pattern;
related constraints: minimum length of continuous words. (e.g. ‘A-W-D-A-x(*)-H-E-D-x(*)-K-R’)
Ref. [7,11,14]
Model 5 a gap with a minimum length of LB and a maximum length of UB is allowed in between any pair of
symbols in a pattern block; a gap with a minimum length of LB” and a maximum length of UB” is
allowed in between any pair of pattern blocks; related constraints: minimum length of pattern block; (e.
g. MAGIIC [24]:’A-W-x(2,3)-H-x(45, 60)-E-x-D-x(1,2)-K’, a pattern block is underscored), RISOTTO [15] (e.g. R-
G-I-T-I-T-x(16,18)-P-G-H-A-D-F, one mismatch is allowed in a pattern block).
MAGIIC [24] and
RISOTTO [15]
Hsu et al. Algorithms for Molecular Biology 2011, 6:6
http://www.almob.org/content/6/1/6
Page 3 of 16
evaluated by investigating the accuracy of function clas-
sification by using W-patterns, compared with the
curated patterns provided in PROSITE and the patterns
discovered by three existing motif finding packages.
Protein-based mining
For protein-based mining, it has been demonstrated in
our previous study [28] that the W-patterns can be used
to facilitate identifying the binding interface of protein-
protein complexes. Here, we repeated the same evalua-
tion procedure by using the same benchmark, the
protein-protein docking benchmark 2.0 established by
the ZDOCK team [27], but recollect the homologue set
for each query protein from a newer version of sequence
databases (Oct. 10, 2008).
The complete procedures for identifying interacting
interfaces for a query protein are as follows:
(1) For a query protein chain, the input data (homolo-
gues of the query, 150 at most) fed to WildSpan was
obtained by performing PSI-BLAST [29] against Swiss-
Prot database [30] using BLOSUM62 substitution matrix
and an E-value cut-off of 0.01. The sequences nearly
identical to the query protein (sequence identity > 90%)
or with a low identity (sequence identity < 30%) were
excluded from the input data. If the homologues of
query protein are not sufficient in Swiss-Prot database
(< 5 homologues), the process of collecting homologues
was executed one more time against the non-redundant
(NR) database [29].
(2) Invoking WildSpan for pattern mining: at least one
W-pattern with five blocks is discovered for each query
protein. Different settings regarding the number of
blocks in a W-pattern have been tested from two to six,
while the setting ‘five’ achieved the best performance
(data not shown). The maximum relative flexibility is set
as 50%. Other parameter settings remain as default. The
discussions regarding how the default settings of Wild-
Span were determined can be found in Additional file 1.
Like other motif finding algorithms, it is challenging to
have all the parameters set to proper values in a single
run of WildSpan. A loose setting of parameters results
in too many patterns that confuse the users, while a
tight setting results in no patterns at all. To achieve the
goal of delivering a five-block W-pattern with a support
as high as possible for each query protein, we follow a
procedure of automated parameter tuning when invok-
ing WildSpan. A flowchart illustrating how WildSpan
was invoked with different parameter settings to com-
plete the mining task was provided in Figure A1.2 of
Additional file 1.
(3) In the end of motif finding, a consensus motif that
merges all the discovered W-patterns is examined for
evaluating the mining results for each query protein.
Among the 220 protein chains in this benchmark, 217
protein chains can find sufficient (≥5) homologues for
motif discovery. For all the 217 query proteins, Wild-
Span successfully found at least one motif containing
five blocks. There are in total 1011 motif blocks discov-
ered by WildSpan. Each block contains 10 residues in
average, including positions that allow for mutations. In
Figure 2, the distribution of the length of inter-block
gaps observed on the 217 query proteins is provided.
More than one-fourth (29%) of the inter-block gap have
a length longer than 30 residues. Though these blocks
are interleaved with long gaps in sequence, it is shown
in Table 2 that the conserved blocks in W-patterns
usually cluster together in space (92.7% of the discov-
ered pattern blocks contains an atom that is within 5Å
to an atom of another block belonging to the same W-
pattern). This proportion is significantly higher than
that of a randomly generated motif (80.1%) containing
five blocks, which each contains 10 residues.
The results above reveal that some of the residues in
W-patterns might be conserved for structure conforma-
tion. The next question to answer is whether the resi-
dues in W-patterns are conserved for function
conservation. In this regard, we further evaluate the
quality of a W-pattern by calculating the proportion of
interface residues in a W-pattern. It is shown in Table 3
that 23.6% of the residues in the W-patterns are close to
the binding partner in protein-protein complexes within
5Å. Since MSA is widely adopted to discover conserved
residues for the query protein with respect to its homo-
logues, the conserved residues detected by techniques
based on MSA were compared here. To compare with
MSA, we calculated the conservation scores based on
the alignment of Clustal-W using the iPDA web server.
In Table 3, it is shown that only 18.7% of the conserved
residues detected by MSA are interface residues. This
reveals that WildSpan is able to discover more con-
served residues that are related to protein function.
Family-based mining
In this experiment, we show the potential of the W-pat-
terns found by invoking the family-based mining mode
of WildSpan to serve as the diagnostic patterns for pro-
tein families. Instead of using only one pattern as the
classification rule, we propose using multiple patterns as
the discriminator. The PROSITE database contains diag-
nostic patterns for protein families, domains, and func-
tional sites. The ten largest PROSITE groups are
collected as the training data (PA10F), and the W-pat-
terns found by the family-based mining mode of Wild-
Span will be compared with the PROSITE patterns of
that input set. It is nominally required that each pattern
contains at least three pattern blocks, but patterns con-
taining nine or more exact symbols though only belong-
ing to one or two blocks will also be reported and
selected. When these ten PROSITE families were ana-
lyzed using WildSpan, the maximum relative flexibility
Hsu et al. Algorithms for Molecular Biology 2011, 6:6
http://www.almob.org/content/6/1/6
Page 5 of 16
ability when compared to the PROSITE patterns, we
observed that the W-patterns derived by WildSpan pro-
vide more complete and precise signatures regarding the
binding regions than the PROSITE patterns, as exempli-
fied in Figure 3. Complete results for protein function
classification are shown in Table A2.2 of Additional file
2. It is concluded that W-patterns perform similarly to
the curated patterns in PROSITE and outperforms the
motifs discovered by the other three constraint models.
We observed that the false positives reported in Table
4 are not really wrong predictions. For example, most of
proteins are annotated in another database (i.e. Pfam) as
the target function. In Table 5, we provided the details
about the number of false positives that can actually
find annotation from another database. These results
show the potential of the W-patterns in predicting pro-
tein functions with both high sensitivity and specificity.
This also explains why the E1DS server [26] performs
well in predicting catalytic sites and residues when
invoking the family-based mining mode of WildSpan to
construct the signature database.
Performance analysis
In this section, we investigate the efficiency of WildSpan
in identifying W-patterns based on the ten datasets in
PA10F.
Performance study on pattern pruning
To evaluate the efficiency of WildSpan with the pro-
posed pruning strategy, we evaluated the performance of
two versions of WildSpan algorithm as follows.
(a) WildSpan: the WildSpan algorithm with pruning
strategies in the second phase.
(b) WildSpan-NP: the WildSpan algorithm with
exhaustive search in the second phase by enumerating
all combinations.
The experimental results on PA10F with different
minimum support thresholds are shown in Figure 4.
For each dataset, the other parameters were set as:
min = 3, gmax = 3, nmin= 2, and fmax = 50%, which
denote the minimum size of a block, the maximum
length of an intra-block gap, the minimum number of
blocks in a W-pattern, and the relative flexibility con-
straint, respectively. As depicted in the Figure 4, Wild-
Span is in several orders of magnitude faster than
WildSpan-NP for all the cases. When the support
threshold is high, the performance curves of WildSpan
and WildSpan-NP are close. This is because fewer can-
didates of blocks exist for higher values of minimum
support. However, WildSpan with lower supports
achieves a better reduction in terms of search space
and consequently provides a better speedup, since
there are many candidate blocks and WildSpan-NP
enumerates all the combinations, which is computa-
tionally expensive.
On the other hand, the scalability of WildSpan is
investigated by studying the effect of varying length
and input size of input datasets. The employed dataset
is the largest family PS00301 of PA10F, which contains
1099 protein sequence members, {s1, s2,..., s1099}. We
randomly selected x proteins from PS00301 as the
input data, x Î {100, 200, ..., 1000, 1099}. These eleven
input sets were used to test the scalability of WildSpan
versus the number of input sequences. Figure 5(a)
shows the analysis, and the scalability of WildSpan is
Table 3 Comparison of the conservation information provided by WildSpan with that of MSA
Total number of residues
characterized as conserved
Number of interface residues in the group of
residues categorized as conserved
Proportion of interface residues in the group of
residues categorized as conserved
W-
patterns
10268 2351 23.6%
MSA 10638 2058 18.7%
We investigated the property of W-patterns at residue level by calculating the proportion of interface residues in W-patterns. The results are compared with the
conserved residues assigned by Clustal-W (MSA). The experiments were tested on the 217 of 220 protein chains (PP220) in the protein-protein benchmark (no
homologues can be found for the three cases: 1ml0_A, 1ml0_B, 1udi_I).
Table 4 Experimental results for protein family classification
Method/Database Time used in seconds Sensitivity Precision Specificity MCC1
PROSITE - 85.717 93.043 99.996 0.857
RISOTTO 18.635 47.003 99.957 100 0.470
Pratt 1598.3 81.507 94.159 99.995 0.815
Teiresias 0.908 76.798 0.2523 41.163 0.030
WildSpan (Family-based) 89.782 99.042 97.481 99.993 0.990
The table shows the performance of family-based mining of WildSpan on protein family classification based on PA10F. The results were compared to PROSITE
annotated patterns and three other pattern mining methods: RISOTTO, Teiresias, and Pratt. The input data was prepared by collecting proteins in the release 50.9
of UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot (235673 entries), and the discovered patterns were verified through all protein sequences in the release 2010/08 of UniProtKB/Swiss-Port
(518415 entries). Fragment and partially matches were excluded in both training and testing data. The parameter values of all the methods were set as default
1 Matthews correlation coefficient (MCC): (TP×TN - FP×FN)/SQRT( (TP+FP) × (TP+FN) × (FN+FP) × (TN+FN) )
Hsu et al. Algorithms for Molecular Biology 2011, 6:6
http://www.almob.org/content/6/1/6
Page 7 of 16
and detecting binding regions of protein-ligand inter-
actions [8,31-33]. To facilitate using the proposed
algorithm in future application, we implemented a
stand-alone program and provided a user-friendly web
server for WildSpan to help the biological community
in discovering functional regions of protein sequences
in a large scale. WildSpan was developed using C/C++
with the support of C++ Standard Template Library
under Linux, and has been tested on various GNU/
Linux platforms, including Red Hat 9.0 and Fedora 5
or higher. It should also work well with other UNIX-
like operating systems.
Figure 4 Performance comparison. This figure shows the running time of WildSpan versus WildSpan with no pruning (WildSpan-NP) on the
PA10F dataset.
Hsu et al. Algorithms for Molecular Biology 2011, 6:6
http://www.almob.org/content/6/1/6
Page 9 of 16
process to improve the performance. This section first
formally describes the problem statement and the asso-
ciated terminology. After that, the algorithm WildSpan
is described step by step.
Problem Statement
Given a query sequence Sq, a sequence database D, and
a parameter set θ regarding pattern block, W-pattern
and gap constraints, the algorithm will find the com-
plete set of closed W-patterns (the definition of closed
patterns is provided in Additional file 3) present in the
sequence database D such that each W-pattern satisfies
the constraints in θ and its matched sequences include
the query sequence Sq. The parameter set θ includes the
minimum support (minimum occurrences) of the
W-pattern, the minimum number of blocks in a W-
pattern, the minimum number of exact symbols in a
block, the maximum length of an intra-block gap
between two adjacent exact symbols in a block, and the
maximum flexibility of an inter-block gap between two
adjacent blocks in a W-pattern.
A block or W-pattern is called ‘satisfied’ if it agrees
with all the user-specified constraints. Each constraint
will be defined when it is first used in the description of
the algorithm.
Definition 1. (Sequence and sequence database)
A sequence over an alphabet Σ is a finite sequence of
symbols belonging to Σ, e.g., protein sequence is
sequence over a 20-letter alphabet. For any sequence S=
〈a1...am〉, a sequence Sx is called a subsequence of S,
if Sx can be obtained by deleting zero or more symbols
from sequence S. We use S[i..j] to denote the substring
〈ai...aj〉 (contiguous subsequence) of S, which starts at
position i and ends at position j of S, for 1 ≤ i ≤ j ≤ m.
In particular, S[1..i] is the prefix of sequence S that ends
at position i, and S[i..m] is the suffix of sequence S that
begins at position i. The length of sequence S, denoted
as m, is defined as the number of symbols in S. An
input sequence database D contains a set of sequences.
In general, the input sequence database is a set of pro-
tein sequences that are presumed to be functionally or
evolutionarily related to the query protein (the first
sequence in D). Patterns found in protein sequences can
be expressed in PROSITE language. For our purpose we
need a more formal definition as below.
Definition 2. (Pattern)
A pattern P can be written as P = a1-x(i1, j1)-a2- x(i2,
j2)-...-x(ip-1,jp-1)-ap in PROSITE language, where a1,...,ap
are the exact symbols of P, and x(ix, jx) are the wildcard
regions (i.e. gaps) of P for ix ≤ jx (1 ≤ x <p). A pattern Q
is a sub-pattern of P if Q can be obtained by deleting
one or more exact symbol(s) from P. Conversely, P is a
super-pattern of Q. We say that a sequence S matches
the pattern P if S contains a substring that can be
derived from P by substituting each wildcard symbol ‘x’
by an arbitrary symbol from Σ. The set S/P stands for
all the substrings of S that match pattern P. The nota-
tion x(n,m), 0 ≤ n <m, is used for a wildcard region with
minimum length gap of n and maximum length gap of
m, and x(n) stands for a rigid-length n gap. The wild-
card “-x(n)-” is simplified as “-” if n = 0, and is repre-
sented as x if n = 1.
The first constraint of the algorithm WildSpan is the
minimum support constraint l.
Definition 3. (Minimum support constraint)
The support of a satisfied pattern P (block or W-pat-
tern) is defined as the percentage of the distinct input
sequences S Î D such that S matches P under the con-
straints in θ. Such matched sequences are called sup-
porting sequences of P. On the other hand, the non-
matched sequences of P in D are called excluded
sequences of P. A pattern P will be reported if and only
if its support is greater than or equal to the minimum
support constraint l and satisfy all constraints in θ.
The minimum support constraint is critical to the
quality of mining results, but it is difficult to determine
in advance since the minimum support of satisfied pat-
terns cannot be accessed before they are discovered. A
lower value on this constraint yields more patterns. In
this regard, this parameter can be set in the following
way: WildSpan begins with a large support, e.g. 100%,
and decreases this setting gradually until a desired num-
ber of satisfied patterns have been found.
Phase 1: identifying rigid-gapped blocks The first
phase of the WildSpan algorithm finds all of the closed
blocks with a support >l and which satisfy the con-
straints concerning a block. The definitions of a block
and related constraints are as follows.
Definition 4. (Block and intra-block gap)
A block (short for pattern block) Ψ = a1-x(i1)-a2-x(i2)-
...-x(ib-1)-ab is a short pattern in which only rigid-length
gaps are allowed. The size of a block is defined as the
number of exact symbols inside it. The gap between any
two adjacent symbols within a block is called an intra-
block gap. The maximum length of an intra-block gap is
set by the constraint gmax and the minimum size of a
block is specified by the constraint min.
To grow a block from scratch when gaps are consid-
ered, we invoke a procedure called prefix-growth with
bounded gaps (C-bounded-prefix-growth). The procedure
grows the prefix of a pattern and makes it longer by
building and scanning its projected database under the
rigid-length gap constraints.
Definition 5. (Projected database)
Let Ψ be a growing block, the projected database of Ψ is
a complete collection of suffix of sequences ξ, where
〈cξ〉 is a suffix of a given sequence S Î D, and c Î
S/Ψ.
Hsu et al. Algorithms for Molecular Biology 2011, 6:6
http://www.almob.org/content/6/1/6
Page 11 of 16
Figure 6 A running example. (a) A sample input sequence database (SDB) containing Sq (reference sequence/query sequence), Sx and Sy. The
solid arrows show the scanning range of the bounded-prefix-growth procedure under the intra-block gap constraint (gmax = 2) with respect to
the pattern block ‘C-x-H’ (C - H) marked by black frames. The red, blue and green solid arrows denote the scanning residues with ‘C-x-H’ as the
prefix and with gap lengths of zero, one, and two, respectively. Two other satisfied pattern blocks are marked by distinct background colours.
The symbol ‘-’ in the sequences represents the residues that cannot contribute to forming any patterns in this example; (b) Three satisfied
pattern blocks; (c) Three satisfied W-patterns; (d) An example of how the maximum relative flexibility with respect to the reference sequence Sq
is employed to discover W-patterns.
Hsu et al. Algorithms for Molecular Biology 2011, 6:6
http://www.almob.org/content/6/1/6
Page 13 of 16
large irregular gaps is ensured by exploiting the prefix
anti-monotone characteristic of the new constraint
model.
Based on the above algorithm description, we have the
pseudo-code of WildSpan as shown in Figure A4.1 of
Additional file 4, and two sub-procedures C-bounded-
prefix-growth and B-bounded-prefix-growth are pre-
sented in Figure A4.2 and A4.3, respectively.
Protein-based mining
The protein-based mining is designed for discovering
protein functional regions of the query protein by refer-
ring to a set of its homologues. The default settings for
W-patterns is: containing at least three blocks in one
W-pattern and at least three conserved symbols in each
block; requiring the length an intra-block gap is at most
three, and the flexibility of an inter-block gap is no
more than 50% with respect to the gap length observed
on the query sequence. It is illustrated in Additional file
1 why this setting is suggested. WildSpan starts mining
with the goal of finding the most highly supported W-
patterns. For example, a support of 100% means that all
the input set, including the query protein, satisfy the W-
pattern. If such W-patterns do not exist, WildSpan
decreases the setting gradually until at least one satisfied
W-pattern has been found. All the results reported in
this study are based the default settings, though the
users can tighten or relax the constraints to improve the
mining quality in different applications.
Family-based mining
For applications of finding family signatures, the limita-
tion of the proposed constraint model is that it might
not be possible to find a satisfied W-pattern that
matches all of the input sequences in a single run of
protein-based mining. Hence, we proposed an iteratively
mining strategy, family-based mining, for collecting a set
of satisfied W-patterns that together serve as the diag-
nostic W-patterns for the input sequences. It is designed
to proceed in the following manner: in the first run of
WildSpan, the sequence of median length is selected
from the input set as the query sequence. At the end of
the first run, the W-pattern with the maximum support
is picked. If not all of the input sequences match the
selected W-pattern (such remaining sequences that do
not match any of the selected W-patterns are called
excluded sequences), the median-length sequence from
the excluded sequences are assigned as the query
sequence in the next call of WildSpan. In the second
run, the W-pattern that matches the most excluded
sequences of the first run will be picked. This procedure
is repeated until the set of selected W-patterns covers
all of the input sequences or no more W-patterns can
be found from the remaining sequences.
Availability and requirements
Project name: WildSpan
Project home page: http://biominer.csie.cyu.edu.tw/
wildspan
Mirror site: http://biominer.bime.ntu.edu.tw/wildspan
Operating system(s): Linux
Programming language: C/C++
Other requirements: none
License: GNU GPL
Additional material
Additional file 1: The analysis on the effect of changing parameter
settings. This file provides the analysis on the effect of changing
parameter settings of WildSpan on the mining results.
Additional file 2: Experimental datasets and results for protein
family classification. This file provides the information of input datasets
and complete results for the experiments of protein family classification.
Additional file 3: Closure checking schema. This file provides the
description of the closure checking schema employed by WildSpan to
generate concise results.
Additional file 4: The complete pseudo codes for the WildSpan
algorithm. This file provides the complete pseudo codes for the
WildSpan algorithm.
Acknowledgements
The authors thank the financial support of National Science Council under
contract number 98-2221-E-002-137-MY2, 99-2627-B-002-004, and 99-2221-E-
231-030.
Author details
1Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, Ching Yun
University, Jung-Li, 320, Taiwan. 2Department of Bio-Industrial Mechatronics
Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 106, Taiwan. 3Department of
Computer Science and Engineering, Yuan Ze University, Jung-Li, 320, Taiwan.
Authors’ contributions
CMH designed and implemented the algorithm, performed all experiments
and drafted the manuscript. CYC provided guidance on design of the
methodology, participated in the discussion of biological significances and
revised the manuscript. BJL aided in the guidance on the study and
provided financial support. All authors read and approved the final
manuscript.
Competing interests
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
Received: 15 April 2010 Accepted: 31 March 2011
Published: 31 March 2011
References
1. Livingstone CD, Barton GJ: Protein sequence alignments: a strategy for
the hierarchical analysis of residue conservation. Comput Appl Biosci 1993,
9(6): 745-756.
2. Casari G, Sander C, Valencia A: A method to predict functional residues in
proteins. Nat Struct Biol 1995, 2(2): 171-178.
3. Schueler-Furman O, Baker D: Conserved residue clustering and protein
structure prediction. Proteins 2003, 52(2): 225-235.
4. Califano A: SPLASH: structural pattern localization analysis by sequential
histograms. Bioinformatics 2000, 16(4): 341-357.
5. Neuwald AF, Green P: Detecting patterns in protein sequences. J Mol Biol
1994, 239(5): 698-712.
Hsu et al. Algorithms for Molecular Biology 2011, 6:6
http://www.almob.org/content/6/1/6
Page 15 of 16
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                          99 年 12 月 30 日 
報告人姓名 陳倩瑜 服務機構及職稱 
國立台灣大學生物產業機
電工程系副教授 
     時間 
會議  
     地點 
99 年 12 月 18 日至 99 年 12 月 21 日
 
Hong-Kong 
本會核定
補助文號
NSC 
98-2221-E-002-137-MY2 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 2010 年 IEEE 生物資訊與生物醫學國際會議 
 (英文) IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics & Biomedicine 
(BIBM-2010) 
報告內容： 
一、參加會議經過 
 
很高興可以參加今年的 BIBM，我們有一篇論文與一篇 Poster 被接受。議程如下： 
 
(論文發表) 
20-Dec 2010 
 14:20-16:05 Session 13  
B535 "Predicting DNA-binding Locations and Orientation on Proteins Using Knowledge-based 
Learning of Geometric Properties"  
Authors: Chien-Chih Wang and Chien-Yu Chen 
由本人負責報告 
 
(海報發表) 
19-Dec 2010 
    12:20-13:40 Poster Session 
20-Dec 2010 
    12:20-13:40 Poster Session 
21-Dec 2010 
    12:25-13:45 Poster Session 
P275 "Sequence Composition Analysis on Arsenic-binding Proteins in Human Cells" 
Yi-An Tung, Yu-Ying Chang, Rong-Nan Huang, and Chien-Yu Chen, 
 負責報告同學 
 
 今年的 BIBM 在香港舉行，自 2010 年 12 月 18 日起至 21 日止，為期四天。BIBM
雖然著重於計算方法於生物與醫學問題之應用，但與會人士不乏生物背景的專家學者，
會議所邀請的演講者，更多是由生物學家介紹目前生命科學最重視的分子生物問題。
BIBM 為 IEEE 針對生物醫學資訊研究最重要的年度會議，由於意識到計算生物
(Computational Biology)及生物資訊(Bioinformatics)的重要性，近幾年的會議都受到全世
界各學術與研究單位高度的注視，也因此此次會議的水準相當高。在會議中，我們不僅
有機會和許多知名研究人員分享我們的研究成果，也藉機會認識此領域的研究學者，促
進未來合作之機會。 
 
此次會議所涵蓋的層面非常廣，舉凡 databases, algorithms, interfaces, visualization, 
modeling, simulation, ontology and other computational methods, as applied to life science 
problems, with emphasis on applications in high throughput data-rich areas in biology, 
附件
 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                          100 年 12 月 30 日 
報告人姓名 陳倩瑜 服務機構及職稱 
國立台灣大學生物產業機
電工程系副教授 
     時間 
會議  
     地點 
100 年 10 月 14, 16~19 日 
西班牙巴塞隆納 
本會核定
補助文號
NSC 
98-2221-E-002-137-MY2 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 第六屆反向工程競賽 DREAM、第七屆 RECOMB 系統生物學衛星
年度會議、第八屆 RECOMB 調控基因體學衛星年度會議 
 (英文) The 6th Annual DREAM on Reverse Engineering Challenges, the 7th 
Annual RECOMB Satellite on Systems Biology, and the 8th Annual RECOMB 
Satellite on Regulatory Genomics 
報告內容： 
一、參加會議經過 
 
很高興可以參加今年的 DREAM 與 RECOMB 系統生物學與調控基因體學衛星年度會
議，我們除了有三篇 Poster 被接受外，本研究團隊還在 DREAM 競賽中的第三項目獲得
第二名之殊榮。議程如下： 
 
(口頭報告) 
14-Oct 2011 
Predicting promoter activities by non-linear combination of sequence motifs 
Yi-An Tung1*, Yong-Syuan Chen2*, Mei-Ju May Chen1, Chien-Yu Chen1,2 
1 Genome and Systems Biology Degree Program, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan; 
2 Department of Bio-Industrial Mechatronics Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 
Taiwan. 
* Equal contribution. 
 
(海報發表) 
14-Oct 2011 
Multi-level determination of confidence scores for alternatively spliced mRNA 
transcripts discovered by de novo assembler (320).  
Ting-Ying Chien , Mei-Ju May Chen , Chien-Yu Chen 
由第一作者簡廷因同學負責報告 
 
16-Oct 2011 
Different transcript segments reveal consistent information about expression ratios in 
RNA-seq (323).  
Mei-Ju Chen , Chia-Cheng Hu , Ju-Chun Hsu , Chien-Yu Chen 
由第一作者陳玫如同學負責報告 
 
18-Oct 2011 
Investigating links between primary structure of AP2/ERF family and the target DNA 
附件
 
Predicting DNA-binding Locations and Orientation on Proteins  
Using Knowledge-based Learning of Geometric Properties 
 
Chien-Chih Wang and Chien-Yu Chen 
Department of Bio-Industrial Mechatronics Engineering, National Taiwan University,  
Taipei 106, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
Corresponding author. cychen@mars.csie.ntu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract—DNA-binding proteins perform their functions 
through specific or non-specific sequence recognition. Al-
though many sequence-based approaches have been pro-
posed to identify DNA-binding residues on proteins or pro-
tein-binding sites on DNA sequences with satisfied per-
formance, it remains a challenging task to unveil the exact 
mechanism of protein-DNA interactions without crystal 
complex structures. Without information from complexes, 
the linkages between DNA-binding proteins and their bind-
ing sites on DNA are still missing. While it is still difficult to 
acquire co-crystallized structures in an efficient way, this 
study proposes a knowledge-based learning method to effec-
tively predict DNA orientation and base locations around 
the protein’s DNA-binding sites when given a protein struc-
ture. First, the functionally important residues of a query 
protein are predicted by a sequential pattern mining tool. 
After that, surface residues within the functional regions 
are determined based on the given structure. These residues 
are then clustered based on their spatial coordinates and 
the resultant clusters are ranked by a proposed DNA-
binding propensity function. Clusters with high DNA-
binding propensities are treated as DNA-binding units 
(DBUs) and each DBU is analyzed by principal component 
analysis (PCA) to predict potential orientation of DNA 
grooves. This paper proposes a knowledge-based learning 
procedure to determine the location of the bound groove by 
considering geometric propensity between protein side 
chains and DNA bases. The 11 test cases used in this study 
reveal that the location and orientation of the DNA groove 
around a selected DBU can be predicted with satisfied er-
rors. How the proposed method can be incorporated with 
protein-DNA docking tools to investigate protein-DNA in-
teractions deserve further studies in the near future.  
Keywords - protein-DNA interactions; DNA-binding 
sites; DNA orientation; geometric properties 
 
I.   INTRODUCTION 
 
Gene regulation in organisms relies on specific pro-
tein-DNA recognitions in a correct way. Recently, 
many computational methods have been proposed to 
predict binding sites on both proteins and DNA [1, 2]. 
Sequence-based approaches employ machine learning 
approaches and training data from structure database to 
predict DNA-binding sites on proteins [3, 4]. On the 
other hand, pattern mining or multiple sequence align-
ment techniques are usually incorporated with large-
scale molecular binding information such as chromatin 
immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments to discover 
protein-binding sites on DNA sequences [5-7].  
In recent years, many experimentally determined 
protein structure models are extensively studied to un-
derstand and decipher the binding mechanisms of pro-
tein-DNA interactions [8]. With protein-DNA com-
plexes, structure-based algorithms [9-11] can construct 
consensus or profiles of binding sites to complement 
the sequence-based approaches for identifying tran-
scription factor binding sites. We also have many 
structure-based methods for predicting DNA-binding 
sites on proteins [9] using both sequence and structure 
information [12]. Although many methods have been 
proposed to study protein-DNA interactions, it remains 
a challenging task to unveil the exact mechanism of 
protein-DNA interactions without crystal complexes. 
In addition to de novo prediction methods, re-
searchers apply structure alignment on a query protein 
structure against existing protein-DNA complexes for 
predicting binding sites and constructing potential 
binding models [13]. Another way to generate protein-
DNA complexes for a query sequence is using homol-
ogy modelling [14]. Sequence alignment is performed 
on the query protein and homologous sequences with 
complex structures. The advantage of using this ap-
proach is no protein structure is required for the query 
protein in advance. Furthermore, with unbound protein 
structure available, docking programs [15-17] can also 
be employed to predict the binding locations and orien-
tation between proteins and DNA molecules. Protein-
DNA docking is capable to generate novel complexes, 
which is in particularly useful for the query protein that 
is not similar to any protein chains in the complex da-
tabase. However, the predicting accuracy of molecular 
docking still largely relies on computing resources and 
the prior knowledge about DNA sequence and confor-
mation.  
It has been shown in a recent study that the direc-
tionality of normal vectors on protein surface is corre-
Finally, we constructed 80 geometric models Ma-b 
based on PDB170, where a is an amino acid type and b 
is a base type. In each model, we collected all the resi-
dues of the same type from different structure files and 
superimposed them by aligning their reference coordi-
nate frame constructed by the three atoms described in 
the previous paragraph. When performing superimpo-
sition, the base atoms belonging to base type b falling 
within the distance of 4 Å with respect to the residue 
were translated and rotated in the same way. In other 
words, a geometric model stores all the transformed 
coordinates of the atoms of a particular base type with 
respect to a particular type of amino acid. Two exam-
ples of the 80 models are shown in Figure 1. 
 
C.  Discovering basic DNA-binding units 
 
A basic DNA-binding unit (DBU) is defined as a 
compact cluster of residues that is supposed to protrude 
into DNA grooves when a protein binds DNA. The 
proposed method discovers DBUs by combining in-
formation of conservation, solvent accessibility, and 
DNA-binding propensity. Conserved residues are dis-
covered by MAGIIC-PRO [21]. Solvent accessibility 
of each residue was calculated by DSSP [22]. Finally, 
conserved residues near surface were clustered based 
on their spatial relationships, the resultant clusters were 
ranked by their DNA-binding propensities. The details 
of the three procedures are given below. 
MAGIIC-PRO is a sequential pattern mining pack-
age which is useful in identifying functional regions 
and residues [23]. The readers can refer to the paper of 
MGAIIC-PRO for more details about the parameter 
settings. After a set of conserved residues were discov-
ered, we calculated the relative solvent accessibility 
(RSA) score of each residue on the structure of target 
protein chains by invoking DSSP [22]. Afterward, we 
only picked up residues with RSA scores higher than 
0.25 for the following clustering process. 
Hierarchical clustering was employed to cluster 
these functionally important surface residues into 
DBUs. At first, clustering was conducted at atom level. 
Euclidean distance was used to measure the dissimilar-
ity between two atoms and average linkage was 
adopted as the scenario to measure dissimilarity be-
tween existing clusters. The clustering process was 
stopped once any pair of cluster exhibit dissimilarity 
larger than 11 Ǻ (covering about three successive bases 
in DNA grooves). Once it happens that not all the at-
oms of a single residue are falling into the same cluster, 
a majority vote was used to determine the belonging of 
the residue. Finally, we used the DNA-binding propen-
sity scores of the clusters to rank them. The score of a 
cluster is the lumped sum of the DNA-binding propen-
sity score defined in Eq. 1 of the residues inside it. The 
cluster scores higher than expectation (‘number of 
residues inside the cluster’  ‘average of DNA-binding 
propensity of the 20 amino acids’) are considered as 
DNA-binding units in the following analyses. 
 
D.  Predicting DNA-binding orientation 
 
In this study, we assumed that the discovered 
DBUs will protrude into DNA grooves, no matter with 
major grooves or minor grooves. In this regard, we 
selected three atoms to represent the spatial property of 
each residue, and use PCA to construct the potential 
orientation of DNA grooves. The first selected atom is 
the atom with the highest DNA-binding propensity in 
an amino acid. The second and the third atoms selected 
to represent the amino acid are the CA and C atoms on 
the backbone. 
 
E.  Predicting locations of DNA bases 
 
Given a predicted DBU and 80 geometric models 
of Ma-b in our knowledgebase, the distribution of a par-
ticular base type b around the DBU in space is esti-
mated as: 






braa
i
braa MiCr MC
b eP
-)(
2
2
)( 2
1
||
1
||
1   )(
yx
x  (2)
, where x is a 3-dimensional vector, representing the 
coordinates of a point in space, yi presents the 3-
dimensional coordinates of the atom i, aa(r) stands for 
the amino acid type of the residue r, and C is the set of 
residues in the derived DBU. In this study, we empiri-
cally used the number of residues belonging to the 
amino acid type aa(r) in the DBU to normalize the con-
tributed scores before accumulating them. 
After the probability estimating where a base is 
likely to present is modelled, the next step is to find the 
positions with the maximum probability efficiently. In 
this study, we used all the base positions collected in 
the models as the sampling space. This space was re-
duced first by removing potential coordinates falling in 
protein cores [24]. The possibility of a base atom fal-
ling in the core of the protein was modelled by the fol-
lowing equation: 


 
Pk
ijcore
kij
e
P
P 2
2
2
1  
||
1)(
yx
x   
(3)
, where xij is the 3-dimentaional coordinates of the 
atom i in the base j and yk presents the 3-dimensional 
coordinates of the atom k in the set of CA atoms of the 
query protein P. These Pcore(xij) scores were sorted in 
descending order, and we only kept the bases with low 
scores until we first reached the condition where the 
distance between the base and protein is < 2 Ǻ. Second, 
  
 
Figure 3. Demonstration of how the predicted orientation is evaluated. 
The red circle stands for the center of a DBU-binding region, and the 
DBU (the shaded ellipse) protrudes into a major groove. 
The results were summarized in Table I. We first 
examined whether the top-1 DBU identifies a correct 
binding location. The sampled positions with the high-
est probability given by Eq. 2 are compared to the 
closest base in the target complex structure and the 
distance between the predicted position and the cen-
troid of the closest base is reported. Among the 11 
tested cases, four cases are categorized as failures (dis-
tance > 6 Ǻ). One of the failures is owing to the miss 
of MAGIIC-PRO in identifying correct functional re-
gions. The other three failures were due to mis-
predictions of the proposed method to identify correct 
DBUs. For the seven successful cases in detecting 
DBUs, PCA correctly constructs the orientation of the 
DNA grooves on five cases (the cosine value of two 
orientation vectors is larger than 0.9, i.e. angle < 25). 
This reveals the possibility of predicting protein-DNA 
binding orientation without co-crystallized structures. 
 
B. Multiple predictions for large protein-DNA inter-
faces 
 
If the protein-DNA interacting interface is large or 
when DNA is considerably bended, it is needed to re-
peat the proposed procedure of predicting DNA-
binding locations and orientation on a few of the top-
ranked clusters. We use the TATA-box binding protein 
of Saccharomyces cerevisiae (1RM1:A) as an example 
to illustrate the basic idea. As shown in Figure 4(a), all 
the top three clusters are shown to close to DNA. It is 
also shown in Figure 4(a) that our predictions correctly 
predict the route of DNA molecules when compared to 
the real DNA structure that was superimposed into the 
figure for visualization. 
TABLE I.   ERRORS OF THE PREDICTED LOCATIONS AND 
ORIENTATION ON THE 11 TEST CASES (PDB11). The four 
cases for which the proposed method failed to find a 
correct binding location are shown in italic form. 
PDB ID 
and 
 the chain 
ID 
Location 
error 
in Å  
Groove type by 
which  
the top-1 DBU 
binds 
Orientation 
error 
in degree 
1KU7:A 0.8 Major 7.7 
1RIO:A 3.6 Major 21.3 
2R1J:L 8.7 NA NA 
2Z3X:A 4.0 Minor 5.0 
1A3Q:A 5.7 Major 19.6 
3DFX:A 2.4 Major 10.7 
2O49:A 8.8 NA NA 
2E1C:A 23.2 NA NA 
3ERE:D 2.7 Major 41.9 
1BDT:A 13.6 NA NA 
3CLC:A 5.1 Major 63.7 
 
C.  Prediction using unbound protein structure 
 
Since proteins usually undergo conformation 
change upon binding DNA, it is of interest to investi-
gate that how the proposed method performs when the 
given protein structure is an unbound model. We use 
another structure model (1TBP:B) for the same protein 
(TATA-box binding protein of Saccharomyces cere-
visiae) to predict DNA-binding locations and orienta-
tion by the proposed method. In Figure 4(b), we show 
that the predictions are generally consistent with that 
derived from the bound structure shown in Figure 4(a). 
This reveals the potential of the proposed method in 
future applications of predicting exact binding mecha-
nisms using unbound structures of DNA-binding pro-
teins alone.   
 
IV. CONCLUSION 
 
This study opens an opportunity of computational 
methods to predict protein-DNA binding mechanisms 
as long as protein structures are available. Using 
MAGIIC-PRO to discover functionally important resi-
dues achieves 10 successes among the 11 test cases. 
The proposed method for discovering basic DNA-
binding units achieves seven successes among the 10 
good cases from MAGIIC-PRO. Among the seven 
correctly predicted DBUs, the constructed models 
identify correct base locations for all the cases and the 
PCA analysis successfully identify the orientation of 
the bound groove on five cases. We conclude that the 
proposed method could help to set the initial conditions 
of DNA structure models for conducting protein-DNA 
docking or serve as the supplementary information.  
i  4 
i  3 
i  2 
i  1 
i j 
j  1 
j  2 
j  3 
j  4 
The predicted orientation 
The orientation used for evaluation 
Sequence Composition Analysis on Arsenic-binding Proteins in Human Cells 
 
 
Yi-An Tung 
Department of Bio-Industrial Mechatronics Engineering, 
National Taiwan University, Taipei 106, Taiwan 
 
Yu-Ying Chang 
Department of Life Science, National Central University, 
Jhongli, Taoyuan 320, Taiwan 
 
Rong-Nan Huang 
Department of Entomology,  
National Taiwan University, Taipei 106, Taiwan 
 
 
Chien-Yu Chen 
Department of Bio-Industrial Mechatronics Engineering, 
National Taiwan University, Taipei 106, Taiwan 
 Corresponding Author. 
Email: cychen@mars.csie.ntu.edu.tw 
 
Arsenic is shown to participate in many of transduction 
pathways in cancer cells [1, 2]. However, up to now, the 
mechanism of protein-arsenic interactions is still remaining 
unknown. This study aims at investigating whether the se-
quence composition of arsenic-binding proteins is distinct 
to that of background distribution. We first collected two 
sets of potential arsenic-binding proteins in human lung 
cancer cells [3] and breast cancer [4], respectively, based 
on recent studies. These two sets of proteins (TABLE I) were 
identified previously according to different chemical 
methods and affinity chromatography coupled to mass 
spectrometry. Eight proteins that are both present in these 
two lists were deleted from the breast set of binding pro-
teins to avoid redundancy.  
The frequency of each type of amino acids present in a 
protein set was calculated. This frequency was divided by 
the background frequency of that amino acid observed in 
human proteins. Finally, the logarithms of the ratios were 
recorded for each list. One hundred sets of 100 randomly 
selected human proteins were generated to produce a back-
ground distribution in order to calculate the z-scores of the 
derived log ratios. 
The results show that the compositions calculated based 
on these two lists of arsenic-binding proteins are quite 
similar. In addition to the potential arsenic-binding proteins 
collected from published literatures, we also collected a 
protein list based on local experiments in Chinese hamster 
ovary (CHOA) cells. The third set of proteins also concurs 
that the amino acids with negative (D and E) and positive 
(K) charges are more frequently observed on arse-
nic-binding proteins than that in general. This observation 
deserves further studies, in order to develop computational 
methods for predicting arsenic-binding proteins efficiently 
in the future. 
 
TABLE I.  LISTS OF POTENTIAL ARSENIC-BINDING PROTEINS. 
List Number of proteins 
Human lung cancer cells 62 
Human breast cancer cells 37 (eight common proteins have 
been excluded) 
CHOA cells 16 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] K.T. Kitchin, and K. Wallace, "The role of protein binding of trivalent 
arsenicals in arsenic carcinogenesis and toxicity", J Inorg Biochem, 
2008, vol. 102 (3), pp. 532-539. 
[2] K.T. Kitchin, and K. Wallace, "Arsenite binding to synthetic peptides: 
the effect of increasing length between two cysteines", J Biochem Mol 
Toxicol, 2006, vol. 20 (1), pp. 35-38. 
[3] H. Yan, N. Wang, M. Weinfeld, et al., "Identification of arse-
nic-binding proteins in human cells by affinity chromatography and 
mass spectrometry", Anal Chem, 2009, vol. 81 (10), pp. 4144-4152. 
[4] X. Zhang, F. Yang, J.Y. Shim, et al., "Identification of arsenic-binding 
proteins in human breast cancer cells", Cancer Lett, 2007, vol. 255 (1), 
pp. 95-106. 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/02/01
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 酵母菌轉錄因子與其DNA鍵結區域互動模式之預測與分析(二)
計畫主持人: 陳倩瑜
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-002-137-MY2 學門領域: 生物資訊
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
所開發之方法經適度修改後，分別應用於一組人類與一組植物(阿拉伯芥)的資
料上，用於預測轉錄因子之 DNA 結合特徵，預測結果均順利幫助實驗設計，並
獲得驗證，顯示所開發之方法的適用性，目前正彙整成期刊論文投稿中。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
