1. Introduction 
Solution of incompressible Navier-Stokes equations is an important subject in CFD related 
fields in science and engineering. With the development of a wide range of numerical schemes 
and algorithms, obtaining numerical solution of the Navier-Stokes equations has become much 
easier compared to the previous decades. However, there is a continuous research going on in the 
development of new numerical algorithms as the CFD is being used as modeling tool in other 
frontiers of science. 
As far as the proposed numerical method is concerned, the DQ method is employed to solve 
the governing equations with higher-order accuracy. The DQ method was first pioneered by 
Bellman et al. [1] to approximate the derivative of a smooth function and has been successfully 
implemented for solving many engineering problems. Hence the motivation for the present work 
originated from the fact that how to use DQ method with higher-order accuracy. 
The first part of present project describes the applications of the DQ for 3D incompressible 
viscous flows by using projection method (velocity-pressure variables). We have taken advantage 
of the operator splitting technique and Runge-Kutta time-stepping method for solving 3D viscous 
flow problems. As far as computational efficiency is concerned, the system of the equations is 
solved separately by using explicit scheme. Only the pressure Poisson equation is solved by using 
bi-conjugate gradient iterative scheme by storing the non-zero values during computational 
processes. The second part of this work, the DQ method is applied to solve the 3D incompressible 
viscous flow including the heat transfer effect by utilizing the velocity-vorticity form of the 
Navier-Stokes equations, which is governed by the Poisson equation, continuity equation and 
governing equations for mixed convection can be expressed by means of the dimensionless 
three-dimensional Navier-Stokes equations in primitive variables form and velocity-vorticity 
form. 
In the case of mixed convection problems, the momentum transport equation includes the driven 
force and buoyancy force generated as a result of fluid density difference caused by the 
temperature difference. The buoyancy term is computed based on the Boussinesq approximation. 
By taking the curl of the primitive variable form of governing equations for mixed convection 
and making use of the vorticity definition, the velocity-vorticity form of the natural convection 
equations. 
2.2 Numerical solution by DQ method 
In the present model, the three-step DQ method is used for simulating 3D incompressible 
viscous flow by using the velocity-pressure and velocity-vorticity formulations. For the 
velocity-pressure formulation, the numerical schemes involved three-step DQ method. When 
the velocity-vorticity form is considered, the simultaneous equations resulting from the 
single global matrix system of equation are solved using a BICG iterative solver. Since the 
coefficient matrix of the global matrix system is sparse, only the non-zero entries are stored 
in a column storage format. In the successive time step, we used the velocity, vorticity and 
temperature components at the previous time step as the initial guess for the next iteration. 
The computations are carried out until steady state conditions are reached. 
 
3. Summary of Results 
formulation of Navier-Stokes equations. Journal of Engineering Mechanics, ASCE. 132(2), 
211-219, 2006. (SCI)  
08 C. C. Tasi, D. L. Young, D. C. Lo, T. K. Wong, Method of fundamental solution for 
three-dimensional Stokes flows in exterior field. Journal of Engineering Mechanics, ASCE. 
132, 317-326, 2006. (SCI) 
09 D. C. Lo, D. L. Young, K. Murugesan, An accurate numerical solution algorithm for 3D 
velocity-vorticity Navier-Stokes equations by the DQ method. Communications in 
Numerical Methods in Engineering. 22, 235-250, 2006. (SCI) 
(B) Conference Paper 
01. D. C. Lo, D. L. Young, High Resolution of 3D Natural Convection in an Inclined Cavity by 
DQ Method, The 14th National Computational Fluid Dynamics Conference, Taiwan, 2007. 
02. D. C. Lo, D. L. Young, High resolution of 2D natural convection in an inclined cavity by the 
DQ method, ICCM 2007, International Conference on Computational Methods, Japan, April 
4-6, 2007. 
03. D. C. Lo, Numerical simulation of 2D mixed-convection problems using a penalty finite 
element method, The Seventh International Congress on Thermal Stresses, Taipei, Taiwan, 
June 4-7, 2007. 
04. D. C. Lo, J.-S. Hu, I.-F. Lin, Numerical simulation of nonlinear water wave problems, 7th 
International Symposium on Marine Navigation and Safety of Sea Transportation, Gdynia, 
Poland, June 2007. 
05. D. C. Lo, D. L. Young, High resolution of 2D natural convection in an inclined cavity by the 
DQ method The International Conference of Computational Methods, April 4-6, 2007, 
Hiroshima, Japan. 
 
References 
[1] R. E. Bellman, B.G.  Kashef, J. Casti, Differential quadrature: a technique for the rapid 
solution of nonlinear partial differential equations, J. Comput. Phys. 10 (1972) 40-52. 
                                                           
計畫編號 (95-2221-E-022-020-) 
計畫名稱 Solution of the 2D Navier-Stokes equations in velocity-pressure and velocity-vorticity form by the DQ method. 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
羅德章 助理教授 
國立高雄海洋科技大學航海科技研究所 
會議時間地點 Japan, April 4-6, 2007. 
會議名稱 ICCM 2007, International Conference on Computational Methods 
發表論文題目 High resolution of 2D natural convection in an inclined cavity by the DQ method 
 
一、參加會議經過 
本人於 2007/4/3~7赴日本廣島參加國際計算方法的研討會。行程簡介如下： 
第一天：自高雄搭飛機至桃園國際機場，然飛往日本廣島，準備參與一連三天的國際研討會。 
第二天～第四天：全程參與研討會，並上台發表論文。 
第五天：自日本廣島轉至桃園國際機場，在返回高雄。 
 
 
二、與會心得 
國際計算方法會議(The International Conference of Computational Methods)于 2007年 4月 4-6
日在日本廣島舉行，來自世界各地的專家學者參加此次盛會。本次大會邀請各種領域的專家
進行研究報告，整體而言，本次參與盛會收穫良多。 
本會議的重點在於應用各種數值分析來求解工程與科學的一些問題。力學為工業之母，
本研討包含應用各種計算方法來解各類型力學之問題，基本上可分為固體力學及流體力學二
大類，研究領域包括微奈米力學、基礎力學，諸如：彈力、塑力、破壞力學、計算流力等方
向。現今的計算方法必需使用合適的跨尺度整合的計算方法，才能更有效、更精確的計算出
各類的工程與科學之問題。例如，如何藉由高速計算平台的開發，分析此一微奈米級材料力
學的特性，如何藉由對於微奈米級材料特性的操控及最佳化設計，開發出一具特殊需求物理
行為的材料，如何發展奈米結構力學之相關理論，進而應用漢彌爾頓理論解析此一由奈米材
料所組成之連續體的塊狀行為，如何建立一跨尺度整合的計算方法，即成為目前奈米材料力
學上研究上一重要且挑戰的課題。 
另一方面，導因各種物理量，譬如力、熱、電磁，在奈米尺度上對材料之作用或影響相近，
因此奈米技術研究勢必需要跨領域整合。除了奈米技術的研究上需要跨領域整合，一般工程
