適用於建築結構監控之無線感測網路系統--總計畫(I) 
計畫編號：95-2221-E-002-437 
執行期間：95 年 8 月 1 日 至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：呂良鴻 副教授 
 
一、 中文摘要 
本計畫的研究主題為適用於建築物結構安全
監控之無線感測網路系統。所提出的構想，是
將所設計的讀取介面電路、基頻訊號處理電路
及射頻收發機電路與感測器進行整合，並以標
準 CMOS 半導體製程完成單一系統晶片的製
作。由於單一系統晶片具有微小化及低製作成
本等優點，因此可將大量的無線感測晶片摻雜
於混凝土中，直接運用在建築物的結構體施
工，形成一嵌入式無線感測系統。如此，可完
全取代現有技術中所使用的固定網路，以降低
系統建構及維護的成本。為了使系統適用於長
期的監控，此系統晶片採用類似 RFID 的無線
電波供電模式。在無線網路通訊系統架構上，
提出以展頻技術建立多工的機制。此一系統可
支援多重節點的感測功能，藉由單一目標區多
重感測器的資料讀取，除了使單一感測器的故
障及雜訊的干擾不至於影響系統的可靠性及
精確度之外，也能提供非定點及高密度的資料
讀取，甚至能對建築物的結構體進行三維的分
析，將使系統的應用更具彈性。 
英文摘要 
A wireless distributed sensor network is 
proposed for building structural health 
monitoring (SHM). By integrating the interface 
circuitry, baseband digital signal processing unit 
and RF/wireless modules monolithically, the 
wireless sensor SOC can be realized in a 
standard CMOS process. Due to the small size 
and low cost provided by SOC implementations, 
a large number of the developed wireless sensors 
can be mixed with cement during the building 
construction, establishing a embedded sensing 
network for structural health monitoring. In 
order to overcome the lifetime limitations of the 
distributed sensors, a wireless power unit, which 
is similar to the RFID systems, is adopted to 
provide the electricity required for the signal 
sensing and transmission. With a spread 
spectrum communication scheme for data 
transmission, the proposed system allows 
multi-node sensing functions to improve the 
accuracy and fault tolerance for the individual 
sensor SOCs. 
 
二、 計畫的緣由與目的 
本計畫的目的在研發一適用於建築物結
構監控的分散式無線感測器網路(distributed 
wireless sensing network)系統。除了提出創新
的偵測機制及系統架構外，也將利用積體電路
的整合技術，以單一系統晶片(system on chip)
方式完成硬體的製作。由於此偵測系統使用無
線網路進行資料傳輸，可省去固定網路的架
設，不但有利於成本的降低，也使之適用於更
大型的建築物及更廣泛的監測範圍。而系統晶
片的製作能有效的降低單位感測器的體積與
價格，除了可以將微小化的無線感測晶片摻雜
於混凝土中，使用於結構體內的嵌入式感測
(embedded sensing)系統建構外，也可藉由大量
感測器的使用，實現計畫中所提出的多重節點
感測技術(multi-node sensing technique)進而改
善偵測資料的精確度，並提供非定點的檢測資
料蒐集以提高系統的使用彈性。 
RF Receiver: 
 
 
 
10
12
14
16
18
-8 -6 -4 -2 0 2
LO Power (dBm)
C
on
ve
rs
io
n 
G
ai
n  
(d
B
)
 
 
-20
-10
0
10
20
4.6 4.8 5 5.2 5.4
RF Frequency (GHz)
|S
11
|  (
dB
)
-20
-10
0
10
20
C
onverison G
ain (dB
)
 
 
-60
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
-38 -34 -30 -26 -22 -18 -14
RF Input Power (dBm)
IF
 O
ut
pu
t P
ow
er
 (d
B
m
)
Pin-1dB IIP3
 
 
 
 
 
RF Transmitter 
 
 
 
8
10
12
14
16
4.91 4.94 4.97 5 5.03 5.06 5.09
LO Frequency (GHz)
C
on
ve
rs
io
n 
G
ai
n  
(d
B
)
 
 
0
3
6
9
12
15
-22 -20 -18 -16 -14 -12 -10 -8
IF Input Power (dBm)
C
on
ve
rs
io
n 
G
ai
n  
(d
B
)
-10
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
R
F O
utput Pow
er (dB
m
)
Pin-1dB
 
 
1446 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MICROWAVE THEORY AND TECHNIQUES, VOL. 55, NO. 7, JULY 2007
Fig. 1. Simulated saturated drain current and the associated inversion coeffi-
cient of an n-channel MOSFET with a fixed V .
Note that is the saturation drain current, and are the
effective channel width and length, respectively, and is the
technology current, which is process dependent, and is defined
as
(2)
where is the weak-inversion slope factor with a typical value
from 1 to 2, is the low-field mobility, is the gate–oxide
capacitance per unit area, and is the thermal voltage. Con-
ventionally, the device is considered in weak inversion for
and in strong inversion for . For an value
ranging from 0.1 to 10, the MOS transistor is operating in mod-
erate inversion. To have a better understanding on the bias con-
dition of the transistors, simulated versus for a 0.18- m
nMOS device under a fixed drain-to-source voltage is il-
lustrated in Fig. 1, where the values of is obtained from (1)
with a technology current of 0.7 A. According to the defini-
tion, it is observed that the transistor operate in weak inversion
for V and in strong inversion for V. With
between 0.4 and 0.7 V, the transistor is biased in moderate
inversion.
With various levels of inversion, the I–V characteristics of the
MOSFETs are strongly influenced by the bias condition. Typ-
ically, distinct expressions of the drain current are required for
weak, moderate, and strong inversion to characterize the tran-
sistor behavior. For simplicity, a semiempirical expression of
the saturation current evolved in [11] and [12] is employed for
the analysis and design of the RF frontend circuits in this paper.
The saturation current of a MOSFET is given by
(3)
with
(4)
For a MOS transistor operating in strong inversion, the drain
current in (3) can be approximated by
(5)
Fig. 2. Simulated and the calculated drain currents of a 0.18-m n-channel
MOSFET operating in the saturation region with a fixed V .
Note that (5) has the well-known form of the square-law I–V
characteristics.
For short-channel devices, the nonideal effects such as ve-
locity saturation, series drain–source resistance, and mobility
degradation should also be taken into account for the device
modeling. As a result, a modified current expression of (3) is
given by [13]
(6)
where
(7)
(8)
Here, the parameters and are the mobility reduction
coefficient and the saturation velocity, respectively. From (7),
the transconductance and the zero-bias drain conductance
of the device can be derived and are given by
(9)
(10)
In order to verify the device model, the simulated saturation
current as a function of along with the values obtained from
(6) are plotted in Fig. 2. It is observed that (6) predicts the drain
current of the MOSFET operating from weak to strong inversion
with sufficient accuracy. Therefore, the derivations in (6)–(10)
are employed for the analysis of the RF frontend circuits below.
III. PROPOSED LNA
A. Circuit Topology
To operate the LNA at reduced supply voltage and power
consumption while providing sufficient gain at multigigahertz
frequencies, a complementary amplifier with a current-reused
1448 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MICROWAVE THEORY AND TECHNIQUES, VOL. 55, NO. 7, JULY 2007
Fig. 5. Circuit schematic of an equivalent three-stage cascaded amplifier with the input, output, and inter-stage matching networks.
stages. Assuming that the losses from the matching network are
negligible, the conjugate matching conditions are given by [16]
(11)
(12)
(13)
(14)
In addition to the amplifier gain, the noise figure is also an
important design consideration for the impedance matching of
the LNA circuits. The matching conditions for minimum noise
figures of the cascaded gain stages are given by
(15)
(16)
(17)
where , , and are the optimum noise source
impedances for the first, second, and third stages, respectively.
In typical LNA designs, it is difficult to meet (11)–(17) at the
same time. However, due to the use of the source degeneration
in the cascaded gain stages, simultaneous power and noise
matching can be achieved [17], leading to optimum perfor-
mance of the LNA.
With the matching conditions specified in (11)–(17), the ef-
fective transconductance of the gain stages can be derived as
(18)
(19)
(20)
where is the operating frequency, is the source
impedance, and and represent the transconductance
and gate-to-source capacitance of the MOSFETs, respectively.
Generally, the capacitance is given by
(21)
where is a constant with a value of 2/3 for long-channel de-
vices. By combining (9) and (21), the cutoff frequency, which
is defined as the ratio of and , is expressed as
(22)
From (18)–(20), it is clear that the effective transconductance
of the gain stages is strongly influenced by the transistor over-
drive voltage. Therefore, three cascaded stages are employed in
the proposed LNA topology to boost the amplifier gain for ultra-
low-voltage operations. Note that, from (19)–(20), transconduc-
tances of the second and third stages can be effectively en-
hanced by reducing the real part of and . However,
it usually requires transistors with enormous aspect ratios for
noise matching, leading to performance degradation, especially
at higher frequencies, due to the excessive parasitics from the
MOSFETs.
Another important specification of the LNA circuits is the
impedance matching at the input. The small-signal equivalent
circuit of the first gain stage is illustrated in Fig. 6, where
is the load impedance. Note that, due to the existence of ,
the input stage is treated as a bilateral two-port network and
the input impedance is influenced by . Assuming that the
overlap capacitance is relatively small, which is generally
1450 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MICROWAVE THEORY AND TECHNIQUES, VOL. 55, NO. 7, JULY 2007
Fig. 8. Simulated and calculated minimum noise factor of a 0.18-m
n-channel MOSFET with a fixed V .
the LNAs at various bias conditions. It is obvious that in-
creases as the bias voltage decreases. For ultra-low-voltage
LNAs with the MOSFETs operated in moderate inversion, the
obtained from the device model in (22) can be treated as
the worst case estimation in practical circuit implementations.
3) Linearity: With the ultra-low supply voltage and power
consumption in the LNA design, the small-signal approxima-
tion only holds at a reduced input power. As the signal level in-
creases, nonlinear characteristics such as gain compression and
intermodulation distortion become significant. Therefore, anal-
ysis on the linearity of the proposed LNA is essential for prac-
tical applications. Due to the similarity in the circuit topology,
the proposed LNA is considered as a three-stage cascaded am-
plifier to simplify the analysis. By neglecting the dc and higher
order harmonic terms in the transfer function, the input third-
order intercept point of the LNA is given by [14]
(35)
where and are the linear gains of the first and the second
stage, respectively. Assuming that and are greater than
unity, the input intermodulation distortion of the third stage
dominates. Therefore, analysis on the linearity of the third stage
is employed to evaluate the overall LNA performance.
To investigate the linearity of the amplifier stage, the drain
current of is expressed by a third-order power series as
(36)
Since the third-order derivative of the drain current with respect
to gate voltage is the major contribution to the distortion, it is re-
quired to derive the coefficient . Based on the transistor model
in (6), is given by [13]
(37)
Fig. 9. Calculated IIP of the gain stage versus gate bias voltage V for
various values of R .
where
(38)
(39)
As indicated in [14], can be approximated by
(40)
where represents the input resistance of . Since is
actually the transconductance of the MOSFET, can
be derived by substituting (9) and (37) into (40) as [13]
(41)
Based on (41), the calculated versus is depicted in
Fig. 9. It is clear that the of the MOSFETs in the amplifiers
generally increases with the gate bias voltage. However, with the
source degeneration in the cascaded gain stages, the coefficient
in (40) is no longer the transconductance , but the ef-
fective transconductance of the third stage , as specified in
(20). Thus, in the proposed LNA topology, the gain of the third
stage can be traded for enhanced amplifier linearity, especially
when low-voltage operations are required.
4) Stability Consideration: The stability is another important
issue in LNA designs, and can be inspected by the reflection
coefficients at the matching networks and terminations. For a
general two-port network, in order not to initiate the undesirable
oscillation, the necessary and sufficient conditions for the circuit
stability are given by [16]
(42)
(43)
(44)
(45)
1452 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MICROWAVE THEORY AND TECHNIQUES, VOL. 55, NO. 7, JULY 2007
Fig. 11. Complete circuit schematic of the proposed down-conversion mixer
suitable for ultra-low-voltage and ultra-low-power applications.
Fig. 12. Equivalent circuit model of the proposed mixer for the derivation of
the down-conversion gain.
signal amplification and impedance matching at RF frequen-
cies. To have a better understanding of the proposed mixer
circuit, detailed analysis with respect to the most important
circuit specifications is presented as follows.
B. Theoretical Analysis
1) Conversion Gain: The conversion gain of the mixer is
evaluated by the equivalent circuit, as shown in Fig. 12. As-
suming that the input impedance is matched to 50 and the
local oscillator (LO) signals are square waves, the conversion
gain is approximately by
(49)
where is the RF frequency, and and are the
transconductances of and , respectively. The expression
in (49) can be further simplified as
for (50)
for (51)
Fig. 13. Simulated normalized conversion gain (CG) and noise figure (NF) of
the proposed mixer as functions of the current bleeding ratio.
According to (50) and (51), the conversion gain is independent
of the commutating stage when is sufficiently large, and
decreases with as the transconductance of the commutating
stage becomes too small.
Due to the use of the current-bleeding technique, large load
resistance can be employed to enhance the conversion gain.
However, as more current flows through , the transconduc-
tance of the commutating stage diminishes, leading to a de-
graded conversion gain. as predicted in (51). The optimum con-
version gain can be achieved by taking the effects of both
and into consideration. With the definition of the current-
bleeding ratio as the dc current through divided by the
total bias current, the simulated conversion gain versus is pre-
sented in Fig. 13. It is observed that the down-conversion mixer
exhibits a maximum conversion gain with a current-bleeding
ratio of 90% in this particular design. In additional to the conver-
sion gain, the simulated noise figure is also depicted in Fig. 13,
indicating an increase in the noise figure as approaches to
unity. Therefore, a tradeoff is involved between the conversion
gain and the noise figure for circuit implementations. Note that
the derivation in (49) is based on the small-signal equivalent
circuits of the mixer. Hence, the linearity issue is not taken into
account. It is generally true that the current-bleeding technique
enhances the down-conversion gain at the cost of the circuit lin-
earity. In order to alleviate such limitations, the transconduc-
tance stage of the proposed mixer is biased in the vicinity of the
“sweet spot” to boost . More detailed derivation and anal-
ysis will be presented in Section IV-B.2.
2) Linearity: In a receiver frontend, the linearity and dy-
namic range are strongly influenced by the down-conversion
mixer. To simplify the analysis, the linearity of the mixer is
evaluated by the characteristics of the transconductance stage
with the assumption that the commutating stage acts as ideal
switches. For a saturated MOSFET, the simulated along
with the values of and , which are defined in (36), are illus-
trated in Fig. 14. As increases, the transistor operates from
weak to strong inversion, leading to an increase in the value of
. On the other hand, the value of turns from positive to neg-
ative with a zero-crossing point at slightly higher than .
It is obvious that the of the mixer increases with when
the transistor is operating in strong inversion. For the transistor
1454 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MICROWAVE THEORY AND TECHNIQUES, VOL. 55, NO. 7, JULY 2007
TABLE I
CIRCUIT PARAMETERS OF THE LNA
Fig. 18. Microphotograph of the fabricated LNA.
in conventional Gilbert-cell mixers, the signal path provided by
the parasitic capacitance of the switching pair should also
be taken into account. Fortunately, with the current-bleeding
technique, large load resistance is allowed for the mixer de-
sign. The LO leakage to the RF port through is generally
insignificant and can be neglected. Due to the differential op-
eration in terms of the LO signals, the fundamental coupling
is theoretically cancelled out at the common-mode nodes, and
the LO-to-RF isolation is solely resulted from the mismatch be-
tween the MOS devices and the load resistances. With careful
selection of the design parameters accompanied by a symmetric
layout, port isolation better than 30 dB can be achieved for ap-
plications at multigigahertz frequencies.
4) DC Stability: With the complementary current-reused
stages, dc stability should be carefully examined in the mixer
design. As shown in Fig. 11, the voltage at the drain of the
MOSFETs is considered a quasi-stable dc point and is gen-
erally susceptible to variations in the fabrication process and
the supply voltage. Fortunately, with the current bleeding
introduced by , only a small portion of the bias current flows
through the pMOS switching pair. The drain voltage of is
thus defined by , leading to good bias stability. From the
simulation results, the drain voltage has a deviation less
Fig. 19. Measured (solid lines) and simulated (dotted lines) small-signal pa-
rameters of the LNA.
Fig. 20. Two-tone harmonic measurement of the 5-GHz LNA with an input
frequency spacing of 20 MHz.
than 70 mV with respect to the supply voltage variation up to
5% for various corner conditions in this particular design.
V. CIRCUIT DESIGN AND EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
In order to demonstrate the feasibility of ultra-low-voltage
RF frontends with the proposed circuit technique, an LNA
and a down-conversion mixer are designed to operate at a
supply voltage of 0.6 V for 5-GHz applications. The circuits
are implemented in a standard 0.18- m CMOS technology
provided by a commercial foundry. The threshold voltages of
1456 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MICROWAVE THEORY AND TECHNIQUES, VOL. 55, NO. 7, JULY 2007
TABLE III
CIRCUIT PARAMETERS OF THE MIXER
Fig. 22. Microphotograph of the fabricated mixer.
were characterized by the two-tone harmonic measure-
ment with 20-MHz input frequency spacing. Fig. 20 shows
the measured results with of 27 dBm and of
16 dBm at the 5-GHz frequency band.
The performance of the fabricated LNA is summarized in
Table II along with previously published data [21]–[23] for
comparison. It is noted that the proposed LNA exhibits the
lowest power consumption and supply voltage while main-
taining competitive performance in terms of gain and noise
figure at 5 GHz. A widely used figure of merit, gain/power
quotient, is also adopted for the performance evaluation. In this
design, a gain/power quotient of 10.2 dB/mW is achieved. To
the authors’ best knowledge, this is the highest record that has
ever been reported in standard CMOS technologies.
In this particular design, the LNA performance in terms of
the linearity and noise figure are degraded to some extent com-
pared with the conventional circuit implementations. However,
for most of short-range communication systems, the physical
(PHY) layer specifications are not as stringent [24]. Instead, the
fabrication cost and power consumption are major concerns.
Therefore, the proposed circuit techniques are well suited for
such wireless applications at multigigahertz frequencies.
B. Down-Conversion Mixer
Fig. 21 shows the simplified design procedure of the
ultra-low-voltage down-conversion mixer. The circuit design
Fig. 23. Measured (solid line) and simulated (dotted line) conversion gain of
the mixer versus LO power level.
Fig. 24. Measured (solid line) and simulated (dotted line) input reflection co-
efficient of the mixer.
Fig. 25. Two-tone harmonic measurement of the 5-GHz mixer with an input
frequency spacing of 20 MHz.
starts with the device size and bias point of the transistors
in the transconductance stage. In order to maximize the
of the mixer, it is desirable to design the sweet spot at a gate
voltage of the supply voltage while maintaining the required
input matching at the RF input. Note that the performance of
the mixer is strongly influenced by the current-bleeding ratio.
A tradeoff has to be made among the conversion gain, noise
figure, and linearity for the mixer design. Once the values of
