??????????
(?) ????
自從 1962 年第一個二極發光體 (LED, Light Emitting Diodes) 由通用電氣公司的研究員
Holonyak 以砷化鎵 (GaAs) 成功製造出來後，二極發光體一直被使用在低發熱的應用上，
例如指示燈。過去二十年間，新材質 (AlInGaP) ，新磊晶技術 (有機金屬氣相磊晶) ，以
及新的量子井結構已經讓發光二極體的內部量子效應超過 90%，且亮度已足夠應用在一般
照明上。發光二極體的照明效率預計很快將超過 100 流明/瓦特，幾乎是鎢絲燈泡的七倍效
率。但是需要更多電流來驅動的發光二極體，也同時面臨散熱的問題。例如在 1990 第一個
商業化的高效能發光二極體其能量聚集程度高達每平方釐米一瓦特，幾乎是傳統 5 釐米發
光二極體指示燈的 20 倍。
不同於一般白熱燈泡中將近攝氏 1000 度的燈絲，發光二極體連接處溫度必須低於攝氏
120 度。否則不但使用壽命將減少，同時發光效率將減少一半左右。因此，封裝材質以及
散熱設計將相當重要。此外，大部分封裝使用的塑膠透鏡 (例如 PMMA, Acrylic) 會因為紫
外線照射而分解或變暗，如此一來將會增加封裝內溫度。因此，散熱路徑必須和透光路徑
分開。因為不同材質的熱膨脹係數差異，封裝內溫度上升，將會對材質造成熱應力 (Thermal
Stress)。長時間熱脹冷縮將會使得封裝材質間剝離，最後造成無法修復的元件損毀。目前熱
應力幾乎是封裝上必須納入考量之重點。
另一方面，當更多的晶片必須置於同一客製化的封裝內，光學設計對於發光二極體的封
裝愈來愈重要。傳同上，5 釐米發光二極體封裝足以應付低照度需求，一晶片搭配一透明
塑膠鏡片。但當照明需要之亮度要求提高，數個發光二極體晶片必須放置於同一封裝中。
如此一來，所面對的光學系統設計將不再是單一點光源，而是數個光源。如何有效收集所
有的發光能量並將之均勻投射出來，將是一大挑戰，特殊的光學設計，例如集光鏡，會是
一可行方法。尤有甚者，白光光源通常是由三原色 (紅﹑綠﹑藍) 發光二極體組成。一般鏡
片僅可對光偏折，卻無法改變白光頻譜，因此對發光二極體要求很高。若是晶片製作誤差
太大，使用者將感覺到不同白光色溫。
針對上述困難，本計畫提出同時針對散熱和光學考慮來設計適當封裝。材質上， 我們
利用矽晶圓搭配適當之矽膠填充物來同時達成降低熱應力與增加出光效率。 此外， 應用
電鑄技術來加強矽晶圓之散熱能力。我們相信唯有同時針對熱能和光能設計，才能有效提
高白光光源效率。固態白光發光源的封裝技術，和傳統微電子晶片封裝比較起來，更是需
要小心設計。經由適當封裝設計，加上固態發光源五萬小時的使用壽命，我們預計不久將
來，將可以在日常生活看到半導體照明設備。
(?) ????
Historically, the light emitting diodes (LED) have been used in low-heat applications, such as
indicators, since solid state GaAs LED was introduced in 1962 by Holonyak of General Electric
Company. During the past two decades, new materials (AlInGaP), new epitaxy growth
(organo-metalic vapor phase epitaxy), and new quantum well device structures have led the LEDs
to high efficiency (>90% internal quantum efficiency) and the brightness is high enough for
general illumination applications. The luminous efficiency of LED is expected to over 100 lumen
/ W soon, which is approximately 7 times the efficiency of a conventional incandescent tungsten
(?) ??? (Keywords)
二極發光體 散熱 熱應力 光學設計
Light emitting diode; thermal management; thermal stress; optical system design
In view of potential applications, the designs of the white illuminators aim at a combination
of high efficiency, high color rendering and reasonable cost. In this paper we propose the
RGB-mixing structure as a high luminous efficiency, high color rendering index and low cost
white illuminator for general lighting applications.
(?) ????
The main concerns of optical design can be divided into two parts: (1) external efficiency (2)
white balance. In the first part, we should focus on the total internal reflection. The refractive
index of AlInGaP LED is about 3.5 and 2.0 for AlInGaN LED. When the emitting light incident
the surface between air and the current spreading layer, there would be a large critical angle and
reduce total power. For decreasing the TIR, the Surface texture, microlens, and proper epoxy
dome shape package are used. Meanwhile, the RGB mixing LEDs still come across an important
issue - white balance. The white point must be carefully controlled. The suitable way is measured
by CCT (correlated color temperature). The higher CCT would make human feel cooler.
Before we design our LEDs system there are some problems and issues we should notice.
Light sources using mixed red, green and blue LEDs have the unique feature of color variability
that allows the user to select the desired color point of the lamp. In addition, the rapid
development of LEDs over the last few years has surpassed the characteristics of incandescent
lamps in luminous efficiency, durability, reliability, safety, and power requirements. To obtain
higher power, several individual LEDs must be mounted on panels. Nevertheless, packaging
density of LED arrays is limited by cost, available space, and particularly by thermal problems.
However, color uniformity of light sources consisting of multiple LEDs is affected by the degree
of packaging density and the array configuration of LEDs. Panels of LEDs produce light with
high uniformity when the panel size is much shorter than the panel-target distance. However,
illumination non-homogeneity becomes appreciable when the panel size is not much longer than
the panel-target distance.
For RGB mixing LEDs, there are five main issues: 1. Effect of temperature-This shift is
dominated by the large reduction in the Red LED light output. 2. Effect of aging- Changes in the
color point of an RGB-LED with time that cannot be predicted. 3. Effect of forward current. 4.
Spread in the performance of the individual LEDs. 5. Thermal Management issues. EX. LEDs are
housed inside an LCD backlit display thermal management and ventilation of the LEDs. The
arrangement of LEDs array must be also considered. The three main ways are already simulated
and measured. The square geometry got the better color uniformity than rhomboidal and random
hexagonal geometry. These basic issues would tremendous restrict and decide our optical design.
In nowadays LEDs industry, the RGB mixing LEDs is already used in backlight system. The
LCD monitor used RGB mixing LEDs as backlight sources could offer better NTSC than CCFL.
The small size monitors widely adopt edge-lit system. In this kind of system, the light came from
individual LED is reluctant of optical distance to mix. In this way, there would cause
non-uniformity white light. We will introduce a solution which the LUMILEDs proposes. This
concept attempts to balance efficiency, color uniformity, thickness and cost to deliver optimized
results. In the figure , shows the five components in this system:
Parameter Design Advice
Thickness Lumileds advises an equal thickness of the main light guide
and the mixing light guide (4mm_6mm).
Surface Surface treatment should be similar to that of standard main
light guides. Sides may be polished in order to improve the TIR
efficiency.
Material CCFL light guides required the addition of UV absorbers to
prevent the LCD screen from being exposed to UV light. This
does not apply for LED_based light sources.
Coupling Mirrors
The 90° coupling mirror couples the light from the LED light source into the mixing light
guide, and the 180° mirror couples the light from the mixing light guide into the main light guide.
In both cases highly reflective mirrors are required.
(?) ???????
The optical simulation program we used in our proposal is Light Tool. In Light Tools the light
distributions are calculated using Monte Carlo simulations to calculate illuminance, luminance, or
luminous intensity over the desired areas or angles. Rays are started from random locations and
directions from the source(s), traced through the optical system, and collected on receivers.
Illuminance can be calculated for rays collected on surface receivers and intensity for rays
collected on far field receivers. By defining a luminance meter for surface receivers, the spatial or
angular variation of luminance can be calculated from that surface. If LEDs are used, the designer
can choose the desired LED model from pre-stored catalogs of models from Agilent, LumiLeds,
Nichia, or Osram. Monte Carlo simulations are the foundations of the illumination calculations in
Light Tools. It is generally understood that random number generators are used to pick starting
ray positions, directions, and wavelengths to sample the light distributions on the receivers. The
convergence of the simulations can be dramaticaly afected by how the “random” numbers are 
chosen. Using low discrepancy(Sobol) number sequences, which are not random at all, can
improve the reduction of error from 1/N^0.5 to 1/N, where N is the number of rays at the receiver.
For this case, it would take 128,000 rays using a random number generator to equal the accuracy
of a 16,000-ray Sobol sequence simulation. It is important to recognize the simulation
convergence speed when comparing different software, since it is the speed with which you get to
a certain accuracy level, not the speed it takes to trace a certain number of rays. Receivers in
LightTools collect ray data for illumination calculations. The ray data is collected on data meshes
for analysis and display. The user can interactively control the dimensions or number of bins in
the data meshes. For a given number of rays on the receiver, meshes with a small number of bins
will have low spatial or angular resolution but high relative accuracy (low error), while meshes
with a large number of bins will have better resolution but lower accuracy (greater error). An
error estimate can be displayed for each bin in a mesh to help the user decide if enough rays have
been traced in the simulation to meet the resolution and accuracy necessary to assess the design.
????
‧ E. F. Schubert, Light Emitting Diodes, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge UK, 2003.
‧ Ivan Moreno, Ulises Contreras, Rumen I. Tzonchev, “Cluster configurations of red, green, and 
blue LEDs for white light ilumination,” Proc. of SPIE Vol. 5739
‧ Yimin Gu, Nadarajah Narendran, Tianming Dong and Huiying Wu, “Spectral and Luminous 
Efficacy Change of High-power LEDs Under Different Dimming Methods,” Proc. of SPIE Vol. 
6337, 63370J, (2006)
‧ Subramanian Muthu, Frank J. Schuurmans, Michael D. Pashley, “Red, Green, and Blue LED
based white light generation: Issues and control,” 37th IAS Annual Meeting. Record of the 
Industry Applications
‧ P. Deurenberg, C. Hoelen, J. van Meurs, J. Ansems, “Achieving color point stability in RGB 
multi-chip LED modules using various color control loops,” Proc. of SPIE Vol. 5941
‧ www.lumileds.com
‧ Illumination With Solid State Lighting Technology, IEEE JOURNAL ON SELECTED TOPICS
IN QUANTUM ELECTRONICS, VOL. 8, NO. 2,
‧ Application Brief AB27 For LCD Backlighting Luxeon DCC www.lumiledsfuture.com
