資訊的應用，在第一年的計劃中，我們提出一個以車輛位置
預測協助資料傳遞的方法，這個方法在尋找目的車輛時，減
少不必要的控制封包；第二年的計劃中，我們研究在車載網
路中點對點的檔案分享方式，網路編碼也應用在傳遞封包
中，以解決車載網路封包容易遺失的問題，我們並研究了動
態感測網路資料收集的方法，提升感測網路偵測能力；第三
年的計劃中，我們將封包傳遞技術推廣至車載網路點對點檔
案分享；另外我們利用車輛移動建立行動感測網路，藉由行
動感測節點在重要之感測位置收集偵測目標資訊，以提高偵
測機率，我們提出一平衡路徑規劃之方法，規劃最短的巡弋
路徑，並使每個感測節點的巡弋負載達到平衡。 
中文關鍵詞： 無線車用網路、繞徑協定、虛擬地標、資料散佈、無線通
訊、位置服務、換手機制、媒體存取控制、延遲限制、具服
務品質保證、點對點檔案分享、位置協助繞徑、網路編碼、
行動感測網路、路徑規劃、負載平衡 
英 文 摘 要 ： This report is for a three-year integrated project, 
which aims to design a variety of communication 
technologies for vehicular networking and implement a 
Telematics system for supporting vehicular driver and 
passengers with comfortable and safe vehicular 
environment. The project is composed of four 
subprojects which will collaborate to work together 
but implement different services in the Telematics 
system.  
In the first subproject, we first proposed a virtual 
landmarks-based approach for packet route in VANETs 
and a distributed scheme to discover the parking 
spaces efficiently in VANETs. In the second year, we 
proposed a distributed taxi hailing protocol in 
VANET. We also proposed a hierarchical location 
service system that provides a low-cost and rapid 
location query. In the third year, we designed a 
reliable routing protocol in VANETs with assistance 
of RSUs.  
In the second subproject, we proposed a vehicle-aided 
handover scheme in vehicular ad-hoc networks 
(VANETs), a linear regression-based delay-bounded 
routing protocol to reduce the communication 
overhead, an efficient dynamic adjusting MAC protocol 
for multi-channel cognitive wireless networks, and a 
multiple relay-based medium access control protocol 
    
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■ 成 果 報 告   
□期中進度報告 
 
先進車用網路和車載資通訊服務－總計畫(3/3) 
 
 
計畫類別：□ 個別型計畫  ■ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：97-2221-E-007-039-MY3 
執行期間： 99 年 8 月 1 日至 100 年 7 月 31日 
 
計畫主持人：許健平 
共同主持人：陳裕賢、張志勇、金台齡 
計畫參與人員：李知穎、柯建豪、張容慈、吳書洵、劉培弘、蘇致瑋、
馬儀蔓、邱聖元、古宗翰、劉富翃、劉向瑄、李苡杰、
吳宗憲、高健淇、吳佩芸  
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          ■涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年■二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：國立清華大學資訊工程系 
 
中   華   民   國  98  年  5  月  20   日 
   II 
中文摘要 
本報告為一三年期之研究計畫之結案報告，此研究計畫之目標為研發先進車用網路之
各項通訊技術，及實作一車載資通訊 (Telematics) 系統，以提供行車者一舒適且安全的行
車環境。本車載資通訊系統主要提供行車者 4種服務，包括『行車安全服務』、『行車緊急
服務』、『行車娛樂及資訊服務』以及『行車導引服務』，並將由四個子計畫分工合作完成。 
在子計畫一第一年中，我們提出了一個利用虛擬地標之繞徑協定，使得封包在車輛間
進行有效率繞徑傳遞；以及設計了一個分散式的停車位找尋方法，讓駕駛人可迅速取得停
車位相關資訊。在第二年的成果方面，我們提出了一個分散式計程車呼叫協定方法，提供
都市中的計程車更有效之載客機制。另外，我們亦在車用無線網路設計了一個階層式的位
置服務系統，能夠快速且低成本的提供車輛位置查詢服務。在第三年度的計劃中，我們設
計出一可靠之繞徑協定，此繞徑協定可延長資料來源車輛與目的車輛之通訊連結時間。 
而在子計畫二中，第一年我們在車載隨意行動網路上提出了改善路由以提昇幾集訊息
傳播成功率、無縫換手車用移動協定；第二年中，提出跨層式設計之以車輛協助換手機制，
讓使用者透過車網路上網能夠享受不斷線的服務、以線性回歸為預測基礎的延遲限制路由
繞徑協定，用以降低非安全性應用的通訊成本；並另外針對提高通訊效率提出了兩個媒體
存取控制協定；而第三年，改善 VC-MAC 協定在車載網路，利用雙迴圈合作 MAC 協定、
行動多點播送路由協定利用攜帶與轉送機制在車載隨意網路之上，整理出無限車輛隨意網
路狀態、結果以及挑戰。在此三年中也匯整目前車載技術與應用，寫了一本有關車載資通
訊的書:無線架構與應用以及在跨層式的移動管理協定及應用，幫助相關領域的學者拓展研
究廣度。 
在子計畫三中，在第一年研發了發展一個網路傳輸效能最佳化的排班演算法，同時考
量傳輸的平行性與 Link的傳輸速率，以達到增加空間再利用及增加在網路上傳流量傳輸等
目的。在第二年的計畫中，我們發展一個提升網路傳輸的 RS 佈建演算法，以達到增加網
路傳輸效能的目的。在第三年的計畫中，我們針對 802.16j 網路 (relay network) 環境，提
出一建置 Relay Station (RS)的佈建演算法，根據網路中每個區域的網路歷史資訊，評估各
區域的車內使用者之通訊需求，根據這些車內使用者所提出的 QoS 頻寬要求，同時考量
IEEE 802.16j 的訊框架構和頻寬限制，發展一個最少 RS數量佈建演算法，以達到降低硬體
成本的目的。 
在子計劃四中，我們研究利用車載網路交換、散佈、或取得資訊的應用，在第一年的
計劃中，我們提出一個以車輛位置預測協助資料傳遞的方法，這個方法在尋找目的車輛時，
減少不必要的控制封包；第二年的計劃中，我們研究在車載網路中點對點的檔案分享方式，
網路編碼也應用在傳遞封包中，以解決車載網路封包容易遺失的問題，我們並研究了動態
感測網路資料收集的方法，提升感測網路偵測能力；第三年的計劃中，我們將封包傳遞技
術推廣至車載網路點對點檔案分享；另外我們利用車輛移動建立行動感測網路，藉由行動
感測節點在重要之感測位置收集偵測目標資訊，以提高偵測機率，我們提出一平衡路徑規
劃之方法，規劃最短的巡弋路徑，並使每個感測節點的巡弋負載達到平衡。 
 
關鍵字: 無線車用網路、繞徑協定、虛擬地標、資料散佈、無線通訊、位置服務、換手機
制、媒體存取控制、延遲限制、具服務品質保證、點對點檔案分享、位置協助繞徑、網路編
碼、行動感測網路、路徑規劃、負載平衡  
   1 
1. Introduction 
The advanced wireless communication technologies, popularization of mobile devices and 
dense transportation network increase the importance and emergency of developing vehicular 
communication technologies to support a safe, efficient and convenient Telematics service. This 
proposal proposes a three-year integrated project, which aims to design a variety of 
communication technologies for vehicular networking and implement a Telematics system for 
supporting vehicular driver and passengers with comfortable and safe vehicular environment. 
This integrated project is composed of four subprojects which will collaborate to work together 
but implement different services in the Telematics system. 
The first subproject mainly develops vehicle-to-vehicle (V-to-V) communication techniques 
in network layer for supporting the Telematics services including the vehicular safety, emergency, 
and guiding services. The second subproject aims at designing V-to-V MAC protocols to support 
efficient V-to-V emergency communications. The second subproject will develop mobility 
management protocols to cope with the vehicular handoff problems. Based on the IEEE 802.16e 
standard and IEEE 802.16j draft, the third subproject aims to develop access technologies in 
MAC and Network layers to support QoS guaranteed entertainment & information service. The 
fourth subproject will develop information dissemination and collection techniques in transport 
layer and support security to Telematics services. In addition to the design and development of 
the above mentioned communication technologies, the four subprojects will collaboratively 
implement vehicular safety service, vehicular emergency service, entertainment & information 
service and guiding service, respectively. 
2. The Research Achievement 
 In this chapter, we will present the research achievement of the five subprojects during the 
last three years respectively. 
2.1 The Research Achievement of the First Subproject 
A. The first year results: 
(1) Virtual Landmark assisted routing protocol in Vehicular Ad hoc Networks 
Our protocol works for communication between vehicles and static destination in a city 
and/or highway environment. The main idea of our protocol is based on the concept of virtual 
landmarks. Virtual landmarks (VLs) are pre-selected intersections in city map by some 
restrictions, for example, the intersections on main roads. These VLs connect with each other by 
roads with high traffic volume and formed a map called virtual landmark map (VLM) as shown 
in Fig. 1. Formally, VLM is a graph whose nodes are VLs and links are roads segments.  
   3 
 
Fig. 2: A matrix for recording the distribution of parking spaces in a super grid. 
Our scheme is fault-tolerant. Due to packet loss, free parking space information of a small 
region may not be available. In such a case, a zoomed-out snapshot of free parking space of the 
city is still available. Since the distribution of free parking space in near regions is similar, if 
some small region’s information is unknown, a prediction could be obtained by filtering out high 
frequency information. Besides, our zoomed-based approach is low-cost. This is because the 
same zoomed-out snapshot could be replied to drivers whose queried locations fall in a certain 
large region, which reduce the number of long-path transmission. On the other hand, an 
additional scheme is also proposed to further reduce communication overhead. 
B. The second year results: 
In the second first year, we proposed a distributed taxi hailing protocol in vehicular ad-hoc 
networks. Furthermore, we also design a region-based hierarchical location service with 
road-adapted grids for vehicular networks. The following is the detail description of our research 
achievement. 
(1) Distributed Taxi Hailing Protocol in Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks 
 In this protocol, vehicles are assumed to be equipped with car computers, wireless 
transmission modules like 802.11, and GPS receivers. We also assume that it would be on main 
streets where taxi drivers pick up passengers or passengers wait for taxis. Since there is sufficient 
traffic volume on main streets, the connectivity of VANET is guaranteed. Our protocol consists 
of two parts: taxi booking and taxi de-blocking. 
 Taxi booking is a three-way handshake protocol. Passengers who need to hail taxis use their 
handheld devices with wireless transmission modules to transmit a request message (REQ) via 
VANETs. If a vacant taxi receives this message, the driver will send a reply message (REP) back 
to the passenger to compete for this job. After receiving the first reply, the passenger responds an 
ACK message to the taxi sending the first reply. 
 Taxis are sorted into vacancy, contention, and occupied modes. Vacant taxis enter the 
contention mode when receiving REQ messages from passengers. Taxis in contention mode 
determine their driving paths from their current position to the passenger and calculates their 
driving distances. Notice that REP messages are transmitted along the determined driving paths 
from taxis to the passenger. Since the connectivity of VANET is guaranteed, taxis whose REP 
message first received by the passenger has the shortest driving distance to the passenger. When 
a passenger receives the first REP message from a taxi, the passenger sends the taxi a 
confirmation ACK. 
 Taxis competing for one passenger are blocked to avoid other passengers’ booking. Taxis 
will be de-blocked when the competition result is available for them. Taxis that loss the 
   5 
source vehicle just needs to send a location request packet to its nearest level center. 
Vehicles/RSUs in each level center may receive a location request packet. Each vehicle/RSU 
receives a location request packet first checks its table. If the demand location information is 
found, the vehicle/RSU sends the request to its lower level which has that information. When the 
request is been sent to the corresponding Level 1 grid center, this center has to choose a vehicle 
to be the location server, because the detail location information is only stored in the Level 1 grid 
center. If a vehicle/RSU receives a request and has no the demand location information, it sends 
this request to its corresponding higher level. 
 Because Level 3 RSUs are connected by wires, we can assume that each Level 3 RSU has 
the newest information of vehicles. If the request packet is sent from a Level 2 RSU, the Level 3 
RSU will forward this request packet to another Level 3 RSU which has the newest demand 
location information. If a request packet is sent from another Level 3 RSU, it is means that the 
receiver has the related location information with the latest update time. After the Level 3 RSU 
confirming the packet is been sent from the same level, it will forward this packet to the Level 2 
RSU which the related location information is belonged to and has been recorded in its table. 
C. The third year results: 
In the third year, we proposed a distributed routing protocol in VANETs with the help of 
roadside units (RSUs). The proposed protocol main focus is on how to construct a reliable 
routing path from a source vehicle to destination vehicle. The details of our proposed routing 
protocol are as follows. 
(1) Distributed Routing Protocol and Handover Schemes in Hybrid VANETs 
Our method consists of three phases: (1) vehicle registration, (2) establishing a route 
between source and destination vehicle, and (3) handover of routing.  
a. Vehicles Registration 
We take a scenario where a set of vehicles are moving in vehicular environments into 
consideration. Each RSU has a unique ID and accesses to the backbone networks such as Ethernet. 
RSUs broadcast advertisements periodically so vehicles can register them. We assume vehicles 
are equipped with embedded computers which can transmit and receive packets and vehicles and 
already know the destination vehicle’s ID. A vehicle knows the road topology and the positions of 
RSUs through a digital map. A vehicle also knows its own location in the network via Global 
Position System (GPS) devices. The standard, 802.11p, defines the communication range of 
vehicles and RSUs at 250 to 300 meters. The packet delivery information such as source ID, 
destination ID, RSU ID, packet generation time, time-to-live (TTL), and other data is specified by 
the source vehicle and placed in the message header. 
When vehicles drive through RSUs, they will register with the RSU and update its location 
information to the home RSU. Vehicles have a preloaded digital map in the embedded computer. 
The digital map is divided into several regions and there is at least one RSU in a region, whereas 
each vehicle has only one home RSU. Additionally, each vehicle is assigned to a home RSU and 
registers RSU which refers to the most recent RSU in which it registered. Initially, each vehicle is 
assigned a single home RSU by hashing the vehicle ID. In the hash function, a vehicle ID is 
divided by the total number of all RSUs and the remainder is the home RSU ID. When a vehicle 
receives a control packet from a RSU which broadcasts an advertisement periodically, it registers 
   7 
We use the method presented in geographic hashing-based protocol (GHLS) [16] to search a 
destination vehicle’s location when a source vehicle sends packets to a destination vehicle. The 
nearest RSU upon receiving the route request computes the destination’s home RSU according to 
the destination ID. After the home RSU receives the routing requests from the nearest RSU via 
the backbone network, the home RSU searches the current registered RSU of the destination ID. 
The registered RSU will receive the routing requests from the home RSU. 
The current registered RSU performs a local flooding to find the destination vehicle. The 
local flooding method is similar to a source vehicle sending routing requests to a RSU. The 
registered RSU starts to broadcast routing requests to its neighbor vehicles. The registered RSU 
can estimate the position of the destination vehicle by its registered information and broadcast the 
estimated location to neighbor vehicles. Each receiver will determine a back-off time according to 
the distance between it and the destination vehicle. The receivers closer to the destination vehicle 
have higher priority to rebroadcast routing requests. Furthermore, in order to avoiding 
broadcasting routing requests indefinitely, TTL is added to the packet header and restricts the 
number of rebroadcasts. Vehicles will continue above steps until the destination vehicle receives 
the routing requests. Finally, if the destination vehicle is in the transmission range of the RSU, it 
sends a reply to the RSU immediately. On the other hand, if the destination vehicle is not in the 
transmission range of the RSU, it sends a reply to the RSU via the reverse path of the request 
packet. The path only goes through the registered RSU of the destination vehicle and the nearest 
RSU of the source vehicle. By sending the reply, intermediate vehicles and the source vehicle will 
record the next vehicle ID which sends the reply to them in order to transmit data to specified 
vehicles. After the source vehicle receives the reply successfully, it starts to transmit data to the 
destination vehicle. 
c. Handover Schemes 
A source vehicle, intermediate vehicles and a destination vehicle have to adjust the route to a 
RSU dynamically when they are close to a RSU or going away from a RSU. In this section, we 
focus on two kinds of handover: intra-RSU handover and inter-RSUs handover. There are two 
scenarios in intra-RSU handover: (1) A sender vehicle changes its next-hop neighbor from a 
vehicle to a RSU if the sender can connect to the RSU directly. (2) A sender changes its next-hop 
neighbor from a RSU to a vehicle due to the sender drives away from the RSU. Each vehicle 
(RSU) knows its previous-hop vehicle or RSU and next-hop vehicle or RSU in order to transmit 
packets and to send replies to a specified receiver. In the route, vehicles may get periodical 
advertisements from the connected RSU and they estimate the Received Signal Strength Indicator 
(RSSI) to determine the link quality of the connected RSU. From the RSSI, the link quality can be 
assigned either to four predefined values or …. When a vehicle cannot receive advertisements, the 
vehicle determines its link quality to “00”. When a vehicle is receiving advertisements, the 
vehicle computes the RSSI. If the RSSI is above the desired threshold, the vehicle determines that 
the signal from the RSU is strong and it changes its link quality to “11”. If the RSSI is below the 
desired threshold, the vehicle will check the previous stored link quality. If the previous stored 
link quality is “00”, the vehicle knows that signal from the RSU is from weak to strong and it 
changes its link quality to “01”. Otherwise, if the previous stored link quality is “11”, the vehicle 
realizes that signal from the RSU is from strong to weak and it changes its link quality to “10”. 
After deciding the link quality, vehicles will add their link quality to the packet header when 
   9 
As receiver does not overhear a reply from RSU, it forwards the packet to RSU. 
 
Fig. 5: Sender sends packets to RSU and receiver drops the packets when RSU sends a reply. 
 
Fig. 6: Receiver sends packets to RSU when RSU does not send a reply. 
In case (3), assuming the link quality of the receiver to the nearest RSU is “10”, it implies 
that the link quality of the sender is “00” or “10”. Since the link quality of receiver is “10”, the 
RSU may receive packet from the receiver directly, but the receiver moves away from the RSU. 
In order to extend the connection time to the RSU, the receiver has to search a backward vehicle 
to transmit packet to the RSU. If the link quality of sender is “00”, the receiver sends packet to the 
RSU and it will also broadcast a routing request to its neighbor vehicles. The vehicle with farther 
distance from the receiver and its (refer to which noun?) link quality is “11” will send a reply to 
the receiver. The vehicle which sends a reply is called the backward vehicle and it sets its  (refer 
to which noun?) next-hop neighbor to the RSU. In the next packets forwarding, the receiver will 
forward the packets to the backward vehicle and change its next-hop neighbor to the backward 
vehicle. If the link quality of sender is “10”, it means that the sender may send packet to the RSU. 
The receiver just waits a time_slot period to listen whether there is a reply message from the RSU. 
If the receiver overhears a reply from the RSU, the receiver will drop the packet sent from the 
sender. Otherwise, the receiver will forward the packet to its next-hop neighbor and broadcast a 
routing request to find a backward vehicle. In Fig. 7, receiver sends packet to RSU and then 
broadcasts a routing request to its neighbors. Backward vehicle sends a reply to the sender. In the 
next packets transmission, receiver sends packets to backward vehicle and then backward vehicle 
sends packets to RSU. 
 
Fig. 7: The routing path is changed from receiver→RSU to receiver→backward vehicle→RSU 
In case (4), assuming the link quality of the receiver to the nearest RSU is “11”, it implies 
that the link quality of the sender is “00”, “01”, “10”, or “11”. Since the link quality of receiver is 
“11”, the receiver can send packets to the RSU directly. If the link quality of sender is “00”, the 
receiver will send the packets to the RSU. If the link quality of sender is “01”, “10”, or “11”, it 
   11 
routing protocol[4], on VANETs. Mobicast routing protocol is to disseminate the emergency 
message for improving the safety of drivers. Emergency messages can be successfully delivered 
to relative vehicles to warn drivers; therefore, drivers have enough time to prevent an accident. 
DIR routing protocol utilizes diagonal intersections to indicate the routing path for data delivery, 
and meantime the realistic traffic flow is considered to reduce the delivery delay-time. Network 
mobility protocol improves the handoff latency by adopting the concept of virtual bus. Virtual 
bus composed of several vehicles assists early IP passing for an incoming vehicle to achieve fast 
and seamless handoff. Shoelace-based QoS routing protocol utilizes the directional antenna to 
provide the bandwidth guarantee for satisfying real-time services and high bandwidth 
requirement applications. The bottle neck problem in a network can be alleviated. For the system 
implementation, we develop the collision warning system on VANETs. Collision warning system 
can improve the safety of drivers by monitoring the driver’s status, detecting lane-change, and 
notifying emergency braking. Neighboring vehicles can be notified this system to avoid 
accidents. Subsequently, we introduce these proposed protocols and the implemented collision 
warning system as follows. 
A. Research 
(1) The first year results: 
In the following, we introduce our proposed results. In the first year, we introduce these 
proposed protocols and the implemented collision warning system as follows. 
a. A Mobicast Routing Protocol in Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks (This result is 
published at ACM/Springer Mobile Networks and Applications (MONET), Vol. 15, 
No. 1, pp. 20-35, Feb. 2010. (2009 SCI IF=1.013)) 
In the first result, we present a “spatiotemporal multicast”, called a “mobicast”, protocol for 
supporting applications which require spatiotemporal coordination in vehicular ad hoc networks 
(VANETs). The spatiotemporal character of a mobicast is to forward a mobicast message to 
vehicles located in some geographic zone at time t, where the geographic zone is denoted as zone 
of relevance (ZOR). Vehicles located in ZOR at the time t must keep the connectivity to maintain 
the real-time data communication between all vehicles in ZOR. The connectivity is kept of all 
vehicles in ZOR through the vehicular ad hoc networks (VANETs). The connectivity of ZOR is 
lost if any vehicle in ZOR suddenly accelerates or decelerates its velocity. The temporal network 
fragmentation problem is occurred such that vehicle in ZOR cannot successfully receive the 
mobicast messages. To solve the problem, a new mobicast protocol is presented in this result to 
successfully disseminate mobicast messages to all vehicles in ZOR via a special geographic zone, 
called as zone of forwarding (ZOF) as shown in Fig. 10.  
 
   13 
 
Fig. 12: Performance of dissemination successful rate (DSR) vs. network density (ND). 
Fig. 13 shows the observed packet delivery delay (PDD) under various network densities 
(ND), where v= 50, 80, and 100 km/hr. A mobicast routing protocol with the high dissemination 
successful rate implies that the value of its PDD was low. The PDD was high if v was high for 
various NDs. In general, the PDD drops as the ND increases. The average PDD of v= 50 < that 
of v= 80 < that of v= 100. As the ND is lower than 0.3, event vehicle may not find any neighbors 
to forward the mobicast message. Event vehicle will carry the mobicast message and try to 
forward the mobicast message to a new incoming vehicle. If ND is low, PDD is greatly growing 
since the mobicast message cannot be sent out by multi-hop transmission. 
 
Fig. 13: Performance of packet delivery delay (PDD) vs. network density (ND) 
b. DIR: Diagonal-Intersection-Based Routing Protocol for Vehicular Ad Hoc 
Networks (This result is published at Telecommunication System, Vol. 46, Issue 4, 
pp. 299-316, May 2011. (2010 SCI IF=0.67)) 
In the second result, we present a diagonal-intersection-based routing (DIR) protocol for 
vehicular ad hoc networks. The DIR protocol constructs a series of diagonal intersections 
between the source and destination vehicles. Fig. 14 shows three categories of diagonal 
intersection. The DIR protocol is a geographic routing protocol. Based on the geographic routing 
protocol, source vehicle geographically forwards data packet toward the first diagonal 
intersection, second diagonal intersection, and so on, until the last diagonal intersection, and 
finally geographically reach to the destination vehicle as shown in Fig. 15. 
   15 
 
Fig. 16: Performance of the packet delivery ratio (PDR) vs. network density. 
Fig. 17 shows the performance of the message overhead (MO) vs. various ND. The curve of 
DIR_B was higher than that of the DIR_A, and the curve of DIR_A was higher than that of CAR. 
The MO drops as ND decreases. For the effect of ND, when the moving speed is high, then the 
corresponding MO of DIR_A, DIR_B, and CAR increases. 
 
 
Fig. 17: Performance of the message overhead (MO) vs. network density. 
c. Network Mobility Protocol for Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks (This result is 
under revised by Wireless Personal Communications, 2011. (2010 SCI IF=0.503) 
This result is also published by IEEE Wireless Communications and Networking 
Conference (WCNC) 2009) 
In the third result, a fast handoff scheme for VANETs is proposed. The goal of the network 
mobility (NEMO) management is to effectively reduce the complexity of handoff procedure and 
keep the mobile devices connected to the Internet. Vehicle is moving so fast that it may cause the 
handoff and packet loss problems. Both of the problems will lower down the throughput of the 
network. To overcome these problems, we propose a novel NEMO protocol for vehicular ad hoc 
networks (VANETs).  
   17 
thus reduces more handoff latency. The FNEMO performs better than the NEMO scheme 
because the predictive fast handoff mode and reactive fast handoff mode of FNEMO can reduce 
a few handoff latency of the NEMO scheme. 
 
Fig. 20: Handoff latency vs. vehicle speed. 
Fig. 21 shows the packet loss rates of the NEMO, FNEMO, Bus, and Virtual Bus schemes. 
The packet loss rate of the Virtual Bus scheme is the lowest, followed by the Bus, FNEMO, and 
NEMO schemes. As mentioned in the previous subsection, the handoff latency of the Virtual Bus 
scheme is the lowest. Therefore, the vehicle with lower handoff latency, whose connection to the 
Internet is less likely to be broken during the handoff procedure, incurs lower packet loss rate.  
 
Fig. 21: Packet loss rate vs. vehicle speed. 
d. A Shoelace-Based QoS Routing Protocol for Mobile Ad Hoc Networks Using 
Directional Antenna (This result is published at Wireless Personal 
Communications, Vol. 54, No. 2, pp. 361-384, July 2010. (2009 SCI IF=0.418)) 
In the fourth result, we propose a new quality-of-service (QoS) routing protocol for mobile 
ad hoc network (MANET) using directional antennas. The proposed scheme offers a bandwidth 
based routing protocol for QoS support in MANET using the concept of multi-path. Our MAC 
sub-layer adopts the CDMA-over-TDMA channel model. The on-demand QoS routing protocol 
calculates the end-to-end bandwidth and allocates bandwidth from the source node to the 
destination node.  
   19 
 
Fig. 25: Performance of success rate vs. mobility 
Fig. 26 shows the performance of throughput vs. bandwidth requirement, where 1 ≤ Br ≤ 8 
time slots, with Mo fixed at 30 km/h, Bn fixed at 25%, and Se fixed at 8. When the bandwidth 
requirement is increased, the shoelace-based protocol is obvious better than the others. This is 
because the higher bandwidth requirements easily lead to low priority flows and thus reduce their 
flow rate and block the flow in both flow-control scheme and zoned is joint scheme, respectively. 
However, the bandwidth requirement is shared among multi- path in the shoelace scheme. 
 
Fig. 26: Performance of throughput vs. average usable network bandwidth. 
(2) The second year results: 
a. Cross-Layer Design Vehicle-Aided Handover Scheme in VANETs (This result 
is published by Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing, Vol. 11, Issue 7, 
pp. 916-928, July 2011. (2010 SCI IF=0.810)) 
In the first result, we present a new developed wireless network technique, termed WiMAX 
Mobile Multihop Relay (MMR), provide a good communication framework for a VANET 
formed from vehicles on high-speed freeways. Applying MMR WiMAX allows some public 
transportation vehicles to act as relay vehicles (RVs) to provide Internet access to passenger 
vehicles. However, the standard handover procedure of mobile or MMR WiMAX suffers long 
delay due to the lack of information about the next RV. This study presents a cross-layer fast 
handover scheme, called vehicular fast handover scheme (VFHS), where the physical layer 
information is shared with the MAC layer, to reduce the handover delay. The key idea of VFHS 
   21 
increases from 2m/sec to 4m/sec, mainly because the time to pass through the disconnected area 
(gap) is reduced. The handover procedure in standard WiMAX takes about 11 seconds. Because 
the time for the DV to pass through the gap is less than 11 seconds, the handover latency is 
dominated by the handover procedure itself. Therefore, the increase in relative speed does not 
further reduce the handover latency. Additionally, the time to pass through the gap is lowered as 
the speed of DV increases, thus further reducing the handover latency, as demonstrated in Fig. 3. 
The arrival rate of OSV also influences the handover latency of VFHS, although not significantly. 
A higher arrival implies that the DV has a higher likelihood of receiving the physical layer 
information broadcasted by an OSV. 
 
Fig. 29: Performance of handover latency under various relative speeds. 
b. Linear Regression-Based Delay-Bounded Routing Protocols for Vehicular Ad 
Hoc Networks (This result is under revised by Wireless Communications and 
Mobile Computing, 2011. (2010 SCI IF=0.810) (Partial result is presented at IEEE 
Vehicular Technology Conference 2010 Spring (VTC-2010-Spring), Taipei, 
Taiwan, 2010))  
In the second result, we focus on delay-bounded routing, whose goal is to deliver messages 
to the destination within user-defined delay and minimize the usage of radio. The messages can 
be delivered to the destination by the hybrid of data muling (carried by the vehicle) and 
forwarding (transmitted through radio). In the existing protocol, a vehicle may only switch the 
delivery strategy (muling or forwarding) at an intersection according to the available time of the 
next block. To improve previous works, our protocol uses linear regression to predict the 
available time and the travel distance and thus the vehicle can switch to a proper delivery 
strategy at a proper moment. Therefore, our protocol can reduce the number of relays by radio. 
Our protocol contains two schemes: the greedy and centralized schemes. The greedy scheme 
uses only the local vehicle’s speed to predict the available time and to decide when to switch the 
delivery strategy; while the centralized scheme uses the global statistical information to make the 
decision. Simulation results justify the efficiency of the proposed protocol. 
   23 
can switch the delivery strategy whenever the regression line is moving from the upper side to 
the lower side of the criteria line (or vice versa). Hence, our schemes can switch to proper 
delivery strategy at proper moment and thus can reduce the number of relays by radio. As the 
number of car increases, the total transmitted bytes also increases because higher density of cars 
will slow down the moving speed of vehicles and thus increases the number of relays by radio. 
 
Fig. 32: Performance of total transmitted bytes vs. the number of cars. 
c. An Efficient Dynamic Adjusting MAC Protocol for Multichannel Cognitive 
Wireless Networks (IEEE International Conference on Wireless Communication, 
Networking, and Information Security (WCNIC), 2010) 
In the third result, we consider to enhance the usage of radio spectrum, a wireless network, 
named as the cognitive wireless network, which allows the unlicensed users to scan and use idle 
radio spectrum, has attracted a lot of attention recently. Because the radio spectrum has to return 
to the licensed user whenever the licensed user needs it, the radio spectrum of cognitive wireless 
networks is a precious resource. Hence, how to avoid collisions and enhance the throughput of 
the network are important issues for designing MAC protocols of cognitive wireless networks.  
We propose an efficient dynamic adjusting MAC (EDA-MAC) protocol for cognitive 
wireless networks. EDA-MAC is improved from C-MAC, which assigns each joined host a 
dedicated beacon slot and thus it has a good potential to avoid contentions and collisions and 
achieve high throughput. The improvements we made are listed as follows: First, instead of a 
fixed number of signaling slots of C-MAC, EDA-MAC dynamically adjusts the number of 
signaling slots according to the number of estimated contenders and thus reduces the number of 
collisions and shortens the join process. Second, each joined host can inform others its 
transmission intention by its beacon frame. Since each joined host has a dedicated beacon slot, 
almost all the beacon frames can be sent without any collision. Third, each communication group 
contains a leader. The leader is responsible for coordinating the join process, data transmission, 
transmission rate selection, channel scan, and channel switch of each host in the communication 
group. With the coordination of the leader, unnecessary contentions and collisions can be 
avoided and thus enhances the throughput of the network. Simulation results justify the 
efficiency of the proposed EDA-MAC protocol. 
   25 
 
Fig. 35: Performance of throughput vs. host arrival rate. 
d. A multiple relay-based medium access control protocol in multirate wireless 
ad hoc networks with multiple beam antennas (This result is published at 
International Journal of Communication Systems, Vol. 23, Issue 5, pp. 596-632, 
May 2010) 
In the fourth result, we consider the advanced technique of multiple beam antennas in 
wireless networks to improve the system throughput by increasing spatial reuse, reducing 
collisions, and avoiding co-channel interference. The usage of multiple beam antennas is similar 
to the concept of Space Division Multiple Access (SDMA), while each beam can be treated as a 
data channel. Wireless networks can increase the total throughput and decrease the transmission 
latency if the physical layer of a mobile node can support multirate capability. Multirate wireless 
networks incur the anomaly problem, because low data rate hosts may influence the original 
performance of high data rate hosts. 
In this work, each node fits out multiple beam antennas with multirate capability, and a node 
can either simultaneously transmit or receive multiple data on multiple beams. Observe that the 
transmitting or receiving operation does not happen at the same time. In this paper, we propose a 
multiple relay-based medium access control (MAC) protocol to improve the throughput for low 
data rate hosts. Our MAC protocol exploits multiple relay nodes and helps the source and the 
destination to create more than one data channel to significantly reduce the transmission latency. 
Observe that low data rate links with long-distance transmission latencies are distributed by 
multiple relay nodes; hence the anomaly problem can be significantly alleviated. In addition, the 
ACK synchronization problem is solved to avoid the condition that source nodes do not receive 
ACKs from destination nodes. An adjustment operation is presented to reduce unnecessary relay 
nodes during the fragment burst period.  
   27 
min-delay and delay-bounded routing protocols for VANETs are discussed in VANETs. Besides, 
the temporary network fragmentation problem and the broadcast storm problem are further 
considered for designing routing protocols in VANETs. The temporary network fragmentation 
problem caused by rapidly changeable topology influence on the performance of data 
transmissions. The broadcast storm problem seriously affects the successful rate of message 
delivery in VANETs. The key challenge is to overcome these problems to provide routing 
protocols with the low communication delay, the low communication overhead, and the low time 
complexity. The challenges and perspectives of routing protocols for VANETs are finally 
discussed.  
 
Fig. 38: The taxonomy of vehicular ad hoc networks. 
f. Telematics Communication Technologies and Vehicular Networks: Wireless 
Architectures and Applications (IGI Global, Dec. 2009) 
This year, we have edited a book, titled as “Telematics Communication Technologies and 
Vehicular Networks: Wireless Architectures and Applications”. Telematics communication 
technologies and vehicular networks have been identified as key technologies for increasing road 
safety and transport efficiency. Telematics communication technologies and vehicular networks 
aim to ensure traffic safety for drivers, provide comfort for passengers and reduce transportation 
time and fuel consumption. The development of vehicular communication and networking 
technologies are expected to enable many potential applications, including automatic collision 
notification and prevention, emergency management, assistances for safe driving, real-time traffic 
congestion notification, location-based driver information services, high-speed tolling, vehicle 
tracking, automobile Internet access, and many others. To facilitate these applications, many 
different new types of communication and networking would be involved, including intra-vehicle, 
vehicle-to-vehicle, vehicle to roadside and vehicle to infrastructure communications. This book 
aims to provide a fast and complete view of all aspects related to telematics communication 
technologies and vehicular networks.  
   29 
The main task of this result is to solve the non-uniform relay distribution and mitigate the 
exposed terminal problems. Fig. 41 illustrates the result of the proposed VC2-MAC protocol. 
The main difference of this approach is to add a  in the information exchange period as 
illustrated in Fig. 41(c). Fig. 41(a) illustrates how the VC2-MAC protocol considers the 
non-uniform relay distribution problem.  and  will be selected to be relay vehicles in the 
relay set selection period. Then  forwards a message to  in the data forwarding period, 
and  immediately re-forwards the message to  and . Fig. 41(b) illustrates how the 
VC2-MAC protocol mitigates the exposed terminal problem if  and  know the number of 
neighbors each has in the information exchange period. Both  and  are selected as relay 
vehicles in the relay set selection period. Finally,  and  can simultaneously send out the 
message to ,  and  in the data forwarding period.  
 
 
(a)                                      (b) 
 
(c) 
Fig. 41: Example of VC2-MAC protocol. 
The simulation results of the DSR under various NDs are shown in Fig. 42. Fig. 34(a) gives 
the observed DSR under various NDs, with RN fixed at 0.1, 0.5, and 0.9 and =100 km/hr. The 
high dissemination success rate implies that the value of DSR was high. The higher the ND is, 
the higher the DSR. The DSR was low if the RN rate was high because more vehicles exist in the 
two-hop distance from vehicles in . If a vehicle in  cannot successfully receive the 
broadcast message, the vehicle in  also cannot successfully receive the broadcast message. 
Fig. 42(b) shows the observed DSR under various NDs, with ET fixed at 0.1, 0.5, and 0.9, and 
=100 km/hr. The higher the ND is, the higher the DSR. The same DSR are obtained under 
various ET rates because  and  are equal to PR. 
 
   31 
 
(a)                              (b) 
 
(c) 
Fig. 43: Three regions. 
The key idea of this work is to deliver the mobicast message by using multihop forwarding 
technique in region 1, and using carry-and-forward technique in region 2. Considering the 
trajectory of vehicles, all vehicles are continuously moving ahead. Both region 1 and region 2 can 
cover  . However, region 1 can cover  more easily than region 2. The multihop 
forwarding technique is used in region 1 because it is necessary to use the wireless transmission 
to deliver the mobicast message mt to  . But compared to region 1, region 2 also covers some 
other vehicles which do not need to receive the mobicast message. That is the reason why the 
carry-andforward technique is used in region 2. For those vehicles which do not need to receive 
the mobicast message in region 2, there is unnecessary for them to get involved in delivering 
messages. Therefore, the channel resource can be reserved. There is an exception which the 
multihop forwarding technique is used in region 2 if the mobicast message cannot deliver to 
destined vehicles before time t + λ. In addition, the mobicast message mt is dropped in region 3 
because region 3 does not cover . 
Fig. 44 shows the observed APDD of MCF under the distance to Ve compared to DRG and 
CGGC. APDD accumulates the deliver delay time for each . In general, the APDD increases 
as the distance increases. The average APDD of ND = 0.8 < that of ND = 0.3. For each case, the 
higher the ND is, the lower the APDD will be. Observe that, when the distance to Ve < 325m 
under ND = 0.3 and the distance to Ve < 350m under ND = 0.8, the APDD of MCF is closed to 
DRG and CGGC. This is because the mobicast message is delivered within region 1 and the prior 
routing strategy is multi-hop forwarding technique. This implies that a large part of  can 
receive the mobicast message with low APDD since a large part of  surround Ve in region 1. 
When the distance to Ve > 325m under ND = 0.3 and the distance to Ve > 350m under ND = 0.8, 
the APDD of MCF is intense increased. The is because the mobicast message is delivered into 
region 2 and the carry-and-forward technique is the prior routing strategy. The channel resource is 
reserved for other applications which require much channel resource. 
   33 
 
d. A Secure Relay-Assisted Handover Protocol for Proxy Mobile IPv6 in 3GPP 
LTE Systems (This result is accepted by Wireless Personal Communications, 
2010 (2010 SCI IF=0.503) (Partial result presented at IEEE Wireless 
Communications and Networking Conference (WCNC 2010))  
In the third year, Relay node discovery phase is to discover RNs by the UE. Because of the 
RN coverage extension of the neighbor eNBs, the UE detects and identifies the existence of all 
possible RNs located at neighbor eNBs before entering the transmission range of next eNB by 
negotiating with ANDSF+. With the assistance of the RN, the UE pre-perform partial layer 3 
handoff procedures before the UE entering into the transmission range of target eNB. The main 
task of this phase is to discover the relay node when UE needs to handover to the target eNB. A 
relay discovery scenario is given in Fig. 46. The operation of relay node discovery is given. 
 
Fig. 46: The relay node registers to ANDSF+. 
This subsection aims to establish a security mechanism to provide the secure communication 
between UE and RN during the handover. Before describing the security mechanism with 
consideration of relay nodes, a secure handover procedure, including authentication key and 
encryption key, is investigated as follows. Through the key exchange procedure, the 
authentication operation is done during the handover. With the authentication key and encryption 
key, the UE can safely transmit data to the target eNB. Fig. 47 shows the simulation scenario for 
the handover. To simplify the scenario, each eNB is also the mobility access gateway.  
   35 
MS needs to decide the target BS at the moment. It is observed that the MS is still not in the 
coverage of neighbor BSs, but MS can directly contact with its PSs. Fig. 48(a) and (b) show that 
a MS scans one PS and two PSs, respectively. 
In Fig. 49, the solid line circle stands for the transmission region. A node in the transmission 
region can be successfully decoded their signals. The dotted line circle stands for the sensing 
region. The sensing region is between the solid circle and dotted circle. A node in the sensing 
region can sense the signals but cannot be successfully decoded their signals. The details are 
given in the PS conditions. When the MS moves to the gray area, the MS is approaching the PS 
to communicate with the neighbor BS, but the MS is leaving the neighbor BS, even scanning two 
PSs. The MS cannot decide the target BS just through signal strengths of PSs. To make a 
comparison, HMIPv6 protocol and PHMIPv6 protocol with the successful and unsuccessful cases 
are simulated. All of these protocols are mainly implemented using the network simulator-2 
(NS-2).  
 
Fig. 49: Handoff decision with assistance of partner stations’ signal strengths. 
To successfully simulate PHMIPv6 protocol and HMIPv6 in IEEE 802.16e system, two 
NS-2 modules, NIST Wimax module and mobiwan, are adopted in our simulations. Fig. 50 shows 
the macro-mobility scenario of our simulation. For simplifying the scenario, every BS is also an 
access router. Each BS represents as a different subnet. A cbr (udp) traffic is established from CN 
to MS. 
 
Fig. 50: The handoff scenario for simulation. 
Fig. 51 illustrates the sequence number vs. time of PHMIPv6 and HMIPv6 protocols. In our 
P HMIPv6, two layer 2 handoff triggers are used. The first trigger is for the PS discovery to 
obtain the assistance of PS for the DAD operation. The second trigger is the actual layer 2 
   37 
Before switching to other access points, a UE needs to perform handover policy algorithm as 
shown in Fig. 53. The goal of this algorithm is to maximize the transmission goodput during a 
limited battery lifetime. The algorithm consists of ‘full’ and ‘emergent’ phases. 
 
Fig. 53: Handover policy for SmSCTP. 
In the emergent phase, the battery lifetime of a UE is ended soon. Depending on the 
transmission rates assigned from different wireless networks, the UE has to acquire a maximum 
goodput before the battery is unavailable. 
In full phase, for heterogeneous networks, it is difficult to use SNR value intuitively, because 
the transmission coverage of the UMTS/HSDPA network is greater than the WLAN network, but 
the transmission data rate of the WLAN network is higher than the UMTS/HSDPA network. 
Therefore, this work uses the available bandwidth, which is driven by the Shannon capability 
theorem, as a basis of the handover. 
Fig. 54 plots the impact of CMR, which ranges at 0.5–1.5, on signaling cost. A high CMR 
value means that the UE moves frequently; otherwise, the UE stays on the same network for a 
long time. According to the CMR change value, however, the system load can be determined. 
 
Fig. 54: Impact of call mobility ratio on delay time and real implementation: CMR=0.5. 
   39 
 
Fig. 56: System function blocks 
 
A VANET is composed of vehicles, while each one has wireless communication device to 
transmit and receive emergency messages for collision warning and avoidance or broadcast 
advertisement messages for infotainment service. Such network not only can improve traffic 
safety efficiently but also provide the comfort applications to the passengers by multi-hop 
communications among vehicles. Therefore, the collision warning system is implemented on 
VANETs to announce the warning message to neighboring vehicle for accident avoidance. 
Drivers’ safety can be enhanced by our collision warning system. 
 
Fig. 57: System architecture 
 
Fig. 58: System demonstration 
   41 
b. The Mirror Electron Reflected System on Vehicular 
The Mirror Electron Reflected System is developing in this project to improve the drivers’ 
safety on the vehicular networks. 
In recent years, the spread of communication services extends from a fixed wired network 
to mobile wireless network since wireless communication technologies and mobile 
communications equipment (such as mobile phones, personal digital assistants, laptops, tablet 
PCs, etc.) are popularized. The vehicular ad hoc networks (VANETs) are the promising and 
important networking techniques for building the Intelligent Transportation System (ITS).  
A system is composed of vehicles, while each one has wireless communication device to 
transmit and receive alert messages for steep turns and appearing opposite direction cars for 
infotainment service. Such network not only can improve traffic safety efficiently but also 
provide the comfort applications for driving unfriendly road by multi-hop communications 
among vehicles. Therefore, the mirror electron reflected system is implemented on VANETs to 
announce the warning message to vehicles which is in opposite side of steep turn for accident 
avoidance. Drivers’ safety can be enhanced by our mirror electron reflected system. 
 
Fig. 63: Wave motion detection module. 
 
Fig. 64: Wave box program architecture. 
 
Fig. 65: End device program architecture. 
 
Fig. 66: The Mirror Electron Reflected System. 
   43 
Recently, a number of related works [22][23][24][25][26][27] proposed relay station 
placement schemes to cope with the RS deployment problems in a WiMAX network. Study [22] 
partitions the network area into a number of small regions and applies Bender’s decomposition 
to determine the placement location of RSs. The scheme calculates the minimal number of relay 
stations based on the total bandwidth required by MSs for each region, and hence minimize the 
number of relay stations required for constructing the WiMAX network. However, the frame 
constraint of the IEEE 802.16j draft and the bandwidth constraints between BS and RS and 
between RS and MS were not considered.  
To minimize the deployment cost, study [23] proposes another scheme which selects the 
candidate sites based on the integer programming technique. Then the proposed deployment 
scheme determines the feasible number of base stations and relay stations by considering the 
bandwidth requirements of mobile stations. However, the candidate sites are randomly 
determined. The network throughput will be degraded if the RSs are deployed at the improper 
sites. In addition, the frame structure of IEEE 802.16 is not considered. 
Some other relay deployment mechanisms were proposed by considering the feasible 
locations where the transmission rates can be improved. Wang et al. [24] aims at maximizing the 
network capacity by considering transmission rate and signal strength. To improve the network 
throughput, each RS will be deployed at a feasible location where the transmission rates of link 
L(BS, RS) and link L(RS, MS) are higher than that of L(BS, MS). However, the assumption that 
all bandwidth requirements are identical, which is not practical in most real applications. In 
addition, the proposed algorithm does not consider that the available bandwidth of each RS will 
be decreased with the number of MSs connected to the same RS.  
In addition to the improvement of network throughput, Lu et al. [25][26] further considered 
the budget constraint and proposed a deployment strategy of BS and RS. This scheme assumes 
that the candidate BS and RS locations are known. It determines the best locations for BS and RS 
deployment while the hardware cost does not exceed the budget constraint. However, the 
pre-determined candidate locations may result in the degradation of network capacity.  
Similar to previous studies [25][26], Chang et al. [27] considered the budget constraint and 
proposed a relay deployment scheme aiming at maximizing the network throughput. Given k 
relays, the proposed deployment scheme partitions the network region into k subareas and then 
calculates the best location of RS in each subarea. This study takes into consideration frame 
structure of IEEE 802.16j and variable traffic demand required by each user. However, the 
proposed scheme cannot determine the minimal number of RSs while required transmission 
demands of all users are satisfied. 
B. Research method 
(1) Scheduling Algorithm with Dynamic Programming Approach (SADP) 
For a given mesh network, the proposed optimal scheduling algorithm assigns slots for SSs 
to satisfy their bandwidth requirements and guarantee the shortest transmission period. Let di 
denote the bandwidth request of node vi and U(vi) denote the optimal schedule for the data 
transmission along the path form vi to v0(or BS). Consider an optimal schedule for the data 
transmission form vi to v0 along the path Pi0 = { vi =v1i0, v2i0,..., vki0=v0} and all the nodes on the 
   45 
above k classified sets, the optimal schedule U(SNG) can be represented by the sequential 
transmission of the k sets as shown in Equation (2) where opt(Si) denotes the optimal 
transmission schedule of nodes in set Si.  
{ } 121 )(...)()()( 21 +→→→= kk ttktt SoptSoptSoptSNGU  (2) 
The next further discusses the interfered relation existed between nodes. In the optimal 
schedule of Si, the transmission schedules in Si can be further divided into l sets N1, N2,..., Nl, 
where any two different sets in { N1, N2,..., Nl } satisfy the Interfered Relation as shown in 
equation (3).  
{ } kiNNNSopt ll ttltti ∈= + ,~...~~)( 121 21  (3) 
In the optimal transmission schedule of Nj, assume m nodes are allowed for transmitting 
data at same time. The optimal schedule for each Nj could be represented as shown in Equation 
(4) where tm+1 = min (t1 , t2 ,…,tm).  
{ } ljPPPN mm ttmttj ∈= + ,//...//// 121 21  (4) 
The following uses two recursive equations to implement the dynamic programming 
algorithm for calculating the optimal uplink schedule as shown in Equations (5) and (6). 
SNGSNG
SNGSNGSNGUSNGU
SNGSNG
⊆
−∪=
Φ−∈
',
))'('(minarg)(
2'  (5) 
The recursive equation (5) helps derive the optimal schedule of SNG from the solutions of 
two smaller sets SNG’ and SNG-SNG’. Consider again the example shown in Fig.9. Let SNG be 
{va, vb, vc}. The optimal  solution U(SNG) could be derived based on the following three 
schedules: U({va}∪{vb, vc}), U({vb}∪{va, vc}) and U({vc}∪{va, vb}). The recursive relation of 
(5) can be applied again and hence the optimal  solution of U({vb, vc}), U({va, vc}) and U({va, 
vb}) can be derived from the optimal solutions of U({va}), U({vb}) and U({vc}) which are 
optimal schedules for single node transmission. 
Equation (6) copes with the problem how two optimal schedules U(SNGi) and U(SNGj) can 
be used to derive an optimal schedule for node set SNGi∪SNGj.  
)()()( jiji SNGUSNGUSNGSNGU ⊕=∪  (6) 
Let notation ⊕ denote the basic operation required for putting together the optimal 
transmission schedules of two smaller node sets SNGi and SNGj into consideration and deriving 
the optimal schedule for a bigger set SNGi∪SNGj. The following discusses the details of 
operation ⊕. Consider the following two optimal schedules. 
{ })(...)()()( 21 imiii SoptSoptSoptSNGU →→→=  
{ })(...)()()( 21 jnjjj SoptSoptSoptSNGU →→→=  
To construct the optimal solution of U(SNGi∪ SNGj), the parallelization task and 
sequencing  task are required to be executed on sets SNGi and SNGj. The parallelization task 
aims to extremely exploit the parallel transmissions between sets SNGi and SNGj while the 
sequencing task aims to guarantee that the sequential relations originally existed in SNGi and 
   47 
four phases, called Partitioning, Bright-Region Identification, Candidate-Region Identification 
as well as Candidate-Location Identification phases. Initially, the RPM in Partitioning Phase 
geographically partitions the given region A into k partitions with equal size, where k is the 
number of relays. Then the size of each partition will be adjusted such that the traffic demands of 
all partitions can be identical.  
Since a relay will be deployed in each partition, the next step is to find a promising region 
for deploying a relay in a partition. Therefore, the next three phases would be executed 
repeatedly for each partition. The Bright-Region Identification phase aims to identify a bright 
region that is promising region for relay deployment. For a region Ai, it is improper to deploy an 
RS very close to BS or CPi. In case that the RS is deployed very close to the BS, the rate between 
RS and CPi will be dropped, which raises a problem that the MSs in Ai cannot satisfy their 
bandwidth requirement. On the other hand, if the RS is deployed far away from BS, the rate 
between RS and BS will be poor. Firstly, the proposed RPM will identify two boundaries, namely 
the BS boundary and the CPi boundary, for each region Ai. The BS boundary would avoid the 
relay deployed too close to the BS while the CPi boundary will avoid the relay deployed too 
close to the CPi.  
The next phase, namely Candidate-Region Identification phase, aims to further identify a 
candidate-region which is the sub-region of bright-region and is covered by the maximal number 
of bright regions of some Ai. The execution of Candidate-Region Identification phase can further 
reduce the computational cost for solving the relay deployment problem.  
It is worthy to mention that deploying the relay at any point of the bright region can satisfy 
the traffic demand of each Ai. However, there exists one best location that deploying the relay at 
this location can results in maximal network capacity. The last phase, namely 
Candidate-Location Identification phase, aims to find the best location for deploying the relay 
such that the network capacity can be maximal. In this phase, the candidate-region will be 
partitioned into several small and equal-sized grids. The proposed RPM will calculate the 
network capacity grid by grid and identify the best location for deploying the relay. The grid size 
can be determined according to the constraint of computational cost. A larger grid will reduce the 
computational cost but will find a location with lower network capacity. 
Table 1 gives the detail steps of the proposed relay placement algorithm. 
Table 1. The Algorithm of RPM 
Input: A region A consists of n subregions Ai, a set of traffic demands pastCPir of each subregion Ai, 
the number of relays k, and the location of BS. 
Output: k locations LRS for deploying k relays. 
//Phase I： Partitioning 
01. For i=1 to n 
02.  For j=1 to k 
03.   Pj Allocate(Aj); 
04.   u(Pj)  pastCPir  +Calculate(
past
CPi
r );  
05.  End 
06. End 
07. kPuu
k
j
j
average
RS /)(
1






← ∑
=
 
08. For j=2 to k 
   49 
req
CPBS
req
CPRS
req
RSBS iijj
ttt ,,,    <+  (7) 
However, the transmission rates iCPBSr − , jRSBSr −  and ij CPRSr −  are mainly determined by the 
SINR value at the receiver side, which are highly related to the distance between the sender and 
receiver. According to adaptive modulation and coding table defined by 802.16j standard, BS can 
adjust the modulation to maximize the transmission rate.  Let iCPBSm − , jRSBSm − and ij CPRSm − denote 
the modulation adopted between BS and CPi, BS and RSj, and RSj to CPi, respectively. Therefore, 
the transmission rates iCPBSr − , jRSBSr −  and ij CPRSr − can be derived. That is, given candidate placement 
location of a relay, BS can determine whether or not it is a feasible location. 
The BS can derive the modulation iCPBSm −  and rate iCPBSr −  by substituting the dst(BS, CPi) 
into function Tabr. For any given placement location of RSj along the straight line between BS 
and CPi, the modulation jRSBSm −  and its corresponding transmission rate jRSBSr −  can be estimated 
by substituting the distance dst(BS, RSj) to the function Tabr. Similarly, the modulation ij CPRSm −  
and corresponding transmission rate ij CPRSr −  can be obtained. Consequently, constraint (7) can be 
applied to check whether or not the given location is suitable for deploying a relay RSj.  
For a given location, although the BS is able to determine whether or not it is located in the 
Promising zone zi of BS and CPi, however, a big challenge to derive the Promising Zone is that 
the number of candidate locations are infinite. To derive the Promising Zone with a reasonable 
computing complexity, we consider the possible modulations that can be applied to the RSj. Let 
M be the number of predefined modulations in IEEE 802.16j standard. To reduce the 
computational cost, the first step considers the limited MM × cases. 
In the first step of Promising Zone Construction Phase, BS tries to explore all possible 
modulations which can be applied between BS and RSj and between RSj and CPi. Let x and y 
denote the sequence numbers of modulations in Table 1. Let modulation pair ),( y CPRSx RSBSxyi ijj mmp −−=  
denote one of the M＊M modulation pairs where jRSBSxm −  and ij
CPRS
ym
−  are the modulations 
intending to be applied on the links (BS, RSj) and (RSj, CPi), respectively. Let rate pair 
),(
ijj CPRSRSBS
xy
i rrr −−=  denote the corresponding rates of modulation pair ),( ijj
CPRS
y
RSBS
x mm
−− . Substituting the rate 
pair into constraint (7), the BS can identify whether or not the modulation pair is feasible to be 
applied on the relay RSj. Let Boolean variable 
xy
if  be value 1 or 0, which represents whether or 
not xy
ir satisfies constraint (7), respectively.  That is,  



=
.otherwise,0
)1(constraintsatisfiesif,1 xyixy
i
r
f  (8) 
With this identification, the BS can collect all feasible modulation pairs in a feasible 
modulation set Ψi which is the important basis for constructing the Promising Zone for CPi in the 
next step. That is  




×=
∈

Mmm
xyxyi
yx
fpΨ
,
 (9) 
As a result, we can derive the feasible modulation set which will be further used in the next step. 
In the second step of Promising Zone Construction Phase, the proposed CARD mechanism 
initially partitions the BS’s serving area A into M coronas. The width of each corona is 
determined based on the transmission distance of each modulation.  Let jRSBSmA − denote the 
corona region where the modulation m is adopted on link (BS, RSj). Similarly, the proposed 
   51 
Let OΦ denote an overlapped area of a set of k Promising Zones z1,…,  zk, where 
Φ={1, …,k}.  Let AΦ={A1,…, Ak} denote the set of subareas whose corresponding Promising 
Zones z1,…, zk have a common overlapped area OΦ. Let RSZ denote the relay that will be 
deployed in the overlapped region OΦ. However, the overlapped relation between subareas might 
be complicated. A general merging process should be developed to cope with all complicated 
cases. Let gΦ denote the overlapped degree of OΦ, and its value is the number of Promising 
Zones in the set Φ. This phase initially finds AΦ whose overlapped region OΦ has highest 
overlapped degree gΦ. Then the merging process, called Merge(AΦ), will be applied to merge all 
subareas Ai, …, Ak in the subarea set AΦ, in order to form a bigger subarea mergeqA  = mergeΦA , where q 
is a new assigned number, starting from 1, of the merged subarea. After, the BS will calculate the 
new central point, called mergeqCP  , in the merged area mergeqA  and then apply Phase I to derive the 
new Promising Zone mergeqz  of subarea mergeqA . The merging process will be repeatedly executed 
until none of Promising Zone has overlapped area.  
Fig. 70 describes the detail of proposed Promising Zone Reduction Phase. In steps (1)-(5), 
BS combines subareas until none of Promising Zone has overlapped region. The step (5) 
recalculates CP of the combined subarea. 
Zone_Reduction(C,PZ) 
Input : A set C consists of n CPi, a promising zone set ZP   
Output : A region CR consists of k CPs, a set of ZP for each CPi in CR. 
01. While there exists overlapped region OZ do  
02. Find AZ whose overlapped region OΦ has highest overlapped degree gΦ  
03.     mergeΦA = Merge(AΦ) ; 
04. A = A – AZ ; 
05.     Compute new mergeqCP  of mergeqA . 
06.    Runing Promising Zone Construction Phase. 
07. End 
08. return (CPM, ZM );          
Fig. 70: Algorithm of Promising Zone Reduction Phase 
c. Minimal Number of RSs Allocation(MRA) Phase  
In previous subsections, the proposed Promising Zone Construction phase has constructed 
the promising zone for each CP while the Promising Zone Reduction Phase further reduces the 
number of Promising Zones by merging neighboring subregions whose Promising Zones have 
common overlapped region. The MRA phase proposed in this section aims to further reduce the 
number of relays. Let ZM denote the set of new Promising Zones by applying the previous two 
phases. Let CPM denote the set of CPs corressponding to the Promising Zones in ZM. Though the 
Promising Zones in ZM are best candidates for deploying the relays, however, it is not necessary 
to deploy a relay in each Promising Zones. This is because that the deployment of relays can 
improve the total amount of data that BS transmit/receive from/to all CPs in the serving region. 
Let ζframe denote the amount of data that BS can support in a frame. Let ζrequirement denote the total 
amount of data required by the serving area of BS. In case that deploying k relays can reach the 
goal of ζframe ≥ζrequirement, it is no need to further deploy any one relay in any Promising Zone. 
Therefore, the goal of Minimal Number of RSs Allocation Phase is to cope with the problem that 
which Promising Zones need to deploy the relays. 
   53 
04. End 
05. DLtempover TtT −=  
06. For each Ri CCP ∈  do 
07. ; ) ( ,,, reqCPBSreq CPRSreqRSBSbi iijj tttt −+=  
08. End 
09. Sort all relay benefits and record the sequence inΞand Θ; 
10. While Tover > benefit do 
11. benefit=benefit+ bqt
  ;  
12.     CPsub =CPsub ∪  mergeiCP ;    
13.     Zsub =Zsub ∪  mergeiZ ;     
14.     ;1=deployjR  N
RS ++; j++;      
15. End       
16. return (Zsub, NRS);      
Fig. 71: Algorithm of Minimal Number of RSs Allocation Phase. 
d. Cost-Aware Relay Deployment mechanism (CARD) 
This section presents the proposed Cost-Aware Relay Deployment mechanism (CARD) 
algorithm. There are three phases designed in the main algorithm. As shown in Fig. 72, steps 
(1)-(5) setup the network environment which consists of one BS, a set of subareas, a set of CPs 
and traffic requirement of each CP. In the Step (7), the function Tabr refers to the Table 1, 
applies the proper modulations and coding, and then maps dst(BS, CPi) to the maximal 
transmission rate of link L(BS, CPi). Step (8) measures the required transmission time of each 
merge
iCP ,1≤ i ≤ n. Steps (11)-(13) call three functions, Zone_Contruction(), Zone_Merge(), 
Minimal_Number_ RS_Allocation(), as presented in the previous subsection, to determine the 
number of required RSs and the promising zones.  
Algorithm : Cost Aware Relay Deployment(CARD) Mechanism 
01. Create a location of BS. 
02. Create a set of subareas { }nAAAA  , ... ,  , 21= . 
03. Create a set of data request D ={ reqd1 , reqd 2 , ..., reqnd }. 
04. Find a set of CPi for subregion Ai { }nCPCPCPC  , ... ,  , 21= . 
05. Create a set of RS { }nRSRSRSR ,..., 21= . 
06. For each CCPi ∈  do 
07.    )),(( irCPBS CPBSdstTabr i =−  
08.    ;/ iCPBSreqIreqi rdt −=  
09. End    
10. Create a set CR and PZ . 
11. (CR,PZ)=Zone_Contruction(C, D,BS); 
12. (CPM, ZM)=Zone_Merge(C,PZ); 
13. (Zsub,NRS)=Minimal_Number_RS_Allocation(C,CR,PZ, D); 
14. For each submergei ZZ ∈  do  
15.   For k = 1 to NRS  do 
16.       deploy RSk in the mergeiZ ; 
17.   End 
18. End 
Fig. 72: Cost-Aware Relay Deployment mechanism (CARD). 
   55 
communications. In addition, energy consumption could be another problem for sensors close to 
a sink. Sensing tasks could be interrupted after a sensor close to the sink drains its energy. Thus, 
we propose a sensing method using mobile sensors patrolling the monitored region. The 
proposed method aims to allot sensing tasks to mobile sensors in a fair and effective way such 
that the coverage of the monitored region is maintained and the load of mobile sensors is 
balanced. 
For the sensing tasks, sensing locations are carefully selected to increase detection 
performance while vehicular sensors are arranged to collect data. The method first selects a set of 
critical sensing locations using a metric based on detection probability. Sensing tasks are then 
allotted to a number of vehicular sensors. An important issue for allotting the sensing tasks is 
made the patrolling paths as short as possible and with balanced length as well. A well balanced 
path plan minimizes the length difference between the longest path and the shortest one. A 
balanced path planning method, called Balanced Route Planning (BRP), was developed for 
multiple vehicular sensors patrolling the monitored region. The optimal sensing location 
distribution is calculated and used to find a set of suitable sensing locations in the monitored 
region. Then, BRP is used to find a patrolling path plan for mobile sensors. To show the 
performance of BRP, path plans generated by BRP are demonstrated and the load balance 
condition of the patrolling paths for vehicular sensors is also evaluated. Simulations show that 
BRP has better performance compared to the traditional minMax multiple-TSP (mTSP) approach 
for path planning. 
A. Research Method 
(1) Network Coded File Sharing in Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks 
We first describe MFPD which is in charge of transmitting packets between vehicles. We then 
describe the network coding technology and develop the peer-to-peer file sharing mechanism 
NCFS in VANETs. Simulation results are presented to show the performance of the proposed 
methods. 
a. Movement-Forecasted Packet Delivery 
Assume that all vehicles are equipped with GPS devices and be able to obtain their 
positions and speeds. MFPD intends to deliver packets without Hello messages. As a result, other 
vehicles’ location information is not required by the sender. Without loss of generality, let us 
assume that a particular vehicle which is called Requesting Vehicle (RV) needs a certain file and 
decides to download the file from P2P file sharing. Initially, the RV broadcasts a request, which 
contains the current position of itself, a timestamp, a time-to-live (TTL) as well as the file 
signature. The purpose of setting TTL is to prevent the request packet from infinitely being 
rebroadcasted over the entire network. A vehicle which contains the file may receive the request 
and prepare a data packet for delivering the file to the RV. The vehicle is called Resource 
Provider (RP). During the request forwarding interval, the RV may continuously move to other 
place. The RP calculates a potential location area, called Movement-Forecast Area (MFA) of the 
RV using the RV position information and the timestamp in the request. MFA limits the region for 
broadcast packets and reduces the load of the network. The MFA is a square with length ℓ 
computed as follows: 
   57 
notify other intermediate vehicles in its transmission range for terminating their back-off timer. 
Otherwise, it does not hear the packet forwarded by other vehicles within a maximum back-off 
duration, it will carry the packet and forward it again after a certain time duration t. For example, 
if the vehicle speed is V, the duration t can be R/V, i.e., the time the vehicle goes a distance of 
transmission range. 
Repeat the procedure until the data packet is received by an intermediate vehicle which 
locates in the MFA of the RV. Then, the packet is turned to broadcast mode within the MFA. 
Hence, the broadcast storm can be alleviated, since MFPD only uses the broadcast mode within 
the MFA. When the RV receives the packet, it broadcasts an ACK to notify other intermediate 
vehicles in its transmission range to terminate their back-off timer. 
b. Network coding 
Dud to the dynamic environment of vehicular networks and error-prone wireless channels 
can increase probability of packet loss. Therefore, the NCFS system incorporated with network 
coding technology to improve delivery efficiency. 
Assume that a RV in the network requests for a certain file, for example a mp3 or jpeg file. 
The file is split into n generations G1, G2, …, Gn . Each generation Gi is further divided into k 
blocks, bi1, bi2, …, bik , as shown in Fig. 75. A RP may own one or more generations of the file. 
Before transmitting the file to the RV, the RP do network coding at first. The RP selects a 
generation Gi with k blocks it has to encode by linear coding. That is,  
∑
=
=
k
j
ijji bcx
1
 , 
where xi represents an encoded block. Each cj is constant coefficient randomly chosen from a 
finite field F(2s) to form an encoding vector ci = [c1 … ck ] and s is a positive integer by user 
defined. Until every generation the RP owns is chosen to be encoded, an encoded block xi and an 
encoding vector ci are stored in a data packet. Subsequently, the packet would be transmitted to 
the RV by our proposed routing protocol MFPD. 
 
Fig. 75: Block format 
In order to recover the original generation, the RV should acquire sufficient and linearly 
independent encoded blocks to decode. Assume that the RV acquires necessary xi and ci of 
generation Gi to store in set Ei. As receiving the data packet, the RV examines whether the 
encoding vector ci is duplicate or linearly dependent of other encoding vectors in Ei. If ci has 
existed or can be linearly combined with other encoding vectors in Ei, the RV should discard it. 
Otherwise, the RV stores xi and ci in Ei. Until the number of ci in Ei is more than k, the RV can 
solve a set of linear equations to decode an encoded block xi for recovering the generation Gi. 
Further, the RV aggregates n generations G1,…, Gn to reconstruct the original file.  
Through above the description of network coding, the delay of file delivery can be reduced 
because the RV only collects enough encoded blocks which are linearly independent for each 
other to decode back into the original generation instead of certainly receiving every block to 
   59 
d. Simulations 
In our simulation, we evaluate the performance of our proposed mechanism named NCFS. We 
carry out the evaluation using NS-2.31 simulator and use MOVE and SUMO to create the maps 
and flow. Moreover, we simulate realistic environment according to the shadowing model shown 
in Fig. 76. The simulation parameters are summarized in Table 2. 
 
Fig. 76: Shadowing model 
Table 2: Simulation Parameters 
Parameter  Value 
Simulation Area 1500 m × 1500 m 
File Size 1000 KB 
Generation Size 10 KB 
Block Size  1 KB 
Number of Vehicles 50 - 150 vehicles 
Vehicle Velocity  0 - 20 m/s 
Transmission Range  250 m 
Periodic Broadcast Time of RV 4 s 
We design the 1500m × 1500m grid map. Assume that the number of vehicles ranged from 
50 to 150 in our scenario. Beside, several RPs and a RV are randomly selected. The RV 
broadcasts a request packet for collecting necessary generations each four seconds. The velocity 
of each vehicle is also chosen randomly between 0 and 20 meter/second. Vehicles move along 
the roads until they reach intersections. They randomly choose continuing straight, turning right, 
or turning left. In network coding, the 1MB file is divided into 100 generations and each 
generation size is 10KB. A generation is split into 10 blocks further and each block size is 1KB. 
We define the download time to be the required time for the RV to collect specific amount 
of generations. We also investigate the performance of the simulation with network coding and 
without network coding.  
Fig. 77 compares the average download time with different number of vehicles. We vary the 
number of vehicles from 50 to 150 in steps of 25. The RV number and the RP number are defined 
as 1 and 20 respectively in this simulation. The ten RPs own total generations and the remainder 
only have a half of total generations which are randomly assigned. As shown in this figure, the 
average download time is shorter as the vehicle number increases, because many vehicles can 
assist others in forwarding packets to reduce the carry and forward time. Furthermore, 
   61 
 
Fig. 79: Average download  time with different number of RPs 
(2) Path Planning for Nodes in Vehicular Sensor Networks 
We also investigate target detection problem using vehicular sensor networks. Vehicles are 
assumed to be equipped with sensor nodes and take measurements for signals emitted from a 
specific target while moving around the city. The target can be a certain pollution substance or a 
chemical attack by terrorists. Vehicular sensors patrol around the monitored region and 
measurements collected along the route are fused to arrive at a consensus.  
In this project, a mobile node path planning approach, namely Balanced Route Planning 
(BRP), is developed to deal with load balance for mobile sensors. The method first selects a set of 
critical sensing locations based on detection performance. Then, the sensing tasks are allotted to a 
number of mobile sensors. The goal is to make the patrolling paths as short as possible. At the 
same time, path length for each vehicular sensor is balanced. 
a. Critical Sensing Location Selection 
Detection performance is used as a metric to determine the set of critical sensing locations. 
Let T denote the set of all possible target locations. The worst-case detection probability is defined 
as  
)(min uD
Tu∈
=ε  
where D(u) is the probability of detecting a target at location u. A set of critical sensing locations 
is one which makes ε as high as possible. Assume that n sensing locations are needed to reach a 
certain detection performance. It has been shown that the number of sensing locations has a 
significant impact on detection performance. Basically, detection performance is improved when 
the number of sensing locations increases. Based on value fusion which sums up the sensing data 
and compares the sum to a threshold η, if the sum is greater than η, the system reports a ‘positive 
detect’ result. The detection probability can be written as follows: 
,)(Prob)(
1








>+= ∑
=
n
i
i
u
i NSuD η  
where uiS  is the signal strength measured by sensor i and Ni is the value of noise. Note that uiS
can be modeled as a function of distance from sensor i to a target at u. The higher the sum of 
target signal strength is collected, the higher the detection probability. 
A linear programming problem can be formulated to find the optimal distribution of sensing 
locations over the monitored region such that theεin eq.(1) is highest. The monitored region is 
first divided into a grid. Assume that T is the set of potential target locations which contains all 
the grid points in the region. Let R be the set of all small squares in the grid and rr be the mass 
magnitude of sensing locations at a particular small square r∈R. The linear programming 
   63 
i. This ordered set forms a temporary patrolling path for the vehicular sensor as shown in Fig. 1. 
For each cluster Gi, a critical sensing location ci from the available sensing location set S is 
picked as the candidate to join Gi. Essentially, the sensing location which is closest to the 
temporary patrolling path is selected. For the purpose of simplicity, to evaluate the distance from 
a sensing location to the temporary patrolling path, BRP uses an approximation which calculates 
the distance from the sensing location to the middle point of the closest edge on the temporary 
patrolling path. Formally, let Mi be the set of middle points of edges on the temporary patrolling 
path in Gi , i.e., 
}...0),(
2
1|{ )%1( i
nj
i
j
i
j
i
j
ii njggmmM i =+==
+ . 
Note that % represents mod operation. The candidate ci and the corresponding edge middle point 
ei are given by 
)},({minarg),(
,
esdec
iMeSs
ii
∈∈
= , 
where d(x, y) is a function for distance from x to y. Assume the corresponding edge of e i is 
),( )%1( inji
j
i gg
+ , i.e., 
),(
2
1 )%1( inj
i
j
ii gge
+= . 
Now, each cluster has a candidate sensing location. The next is to choose one from the 
candidates and add it to its corresponding cluster. The choosing criterion is that if the chosen 
candidate is added to its corresponding cluster, the resulting longest path would be shorter than 
the longest path resulting from adding other candidates to their corresponding clusters. 
Specifically, let pi be the length of the temporary patrolling path of Gi. If ci is added to Gi , the 
length of the temporary patrolling path of the cluster will become 
),(),(),( )%1()%1( ii njiii
j
i
nj
i
j
iii gcdcgdggdpp
++ ++−=′ . 
Note that to add one sensing location to the path, say ci in Fig.1, the edge ),( 1+jiji gg will be 
removed and edge ),( iji cg  are ),( 1+jii gc added to the path. Then, one can get the longest path 
length resulting from adding ci to Gi as 
},...,,,...,max{ 111 kiiii pppppl +− ′= . 
The sensing location cz is chosen and added to Gz where 
}{minarg
...1 iki
lz
=
= . 
Then, remove cz from S, update Gz and Mz, and repeat the process until S is empty. Finally, 
Traveling Salesman problem (TSP) is employed to refine the temporary patrolling path for each 
cluster. The procedure is listed in Algorithm 2. 
The key point for BRP to make patrolling route balanced among vehicular sensors is to 
minimize the longest patrolling path when selecting the routes. Meanwhile, the patrolling plan 
will also get good detection performance since the sensing locations are selected by maximizing 
the detection probability at the most vulnerable place. 
   65 
route and make it as the new head. 
5) Repeat step 2 until all the locations are selected. 
Finally, TSP is also employed to refine each patrolling path.  
Examples of the patrolling path plans generated by BRP and mTSP for 2 and 4 vehicular 
sensors are illustrated in Fig. 80 and Fig. 81, respectively. Thirty critical sensing locations are 
first selected by Algorithm 1 in a 20 × 20 region. These sensing locations can be used to 
guarantee that the most vulnerable place in the region will be monitored in a better condition 
than other deployment is used. Then, vehicular sensors are dispatched to the sensing locations to 
collect data. The initial location of the vehicular sensors is (10, 10), which is the center of the 
region. 
 
(a) Path plan by mTSP 
 
(b) Path plan by BRP 
Fig. 80: Patrolling path plans for 2 vehicular sensors 
Fig. 80(a) shows an example of the path generated by mTSP. One of the serious problems of 
mTSP can be seen in the example. For the route shown by dotted line in Fig. 80(a), a few sensing 
locations are far away from the major area occupied by the other sensing locations. Thus, the 
route has to go far away from the major area to cover those sensing locations far away and 
making the router longer than necessary. The problem is caused by the method of how mTSP 
selects the candidate sensing location for a route. It picks the one which is closest to the head of a 
temporary route. The closest sensing location can lead the head to a certain portion of the region 
and leave a few sensing locations unselected in another portion of the region. At the end of the 
sensing location picking process, the unselected sensing locations still need to be visited. Thus, 
make the head go from the major area of the route to a far remote area. However, BRP selects the 
candidate closest to the path rather than to a certain sensing location in the route. Consequently, 
   67 
 
Fig. 82: minMax v.s. BRP with 2 vehicular 
sensors 
 
Fig. 83: minMax v.s. BRP with 4 vehicular 
sensors 
3. Conclusion  
3.1 The First Subproject 
In the first year, we proposed a position-based routing protocol and a parking space 
discovery scheme in VANETs. With the help of Virtual Landmarks, vehicles can easily find a 
reliable short routing path and have low routing packet overhead no matter the road topology is 
simply grids or complex. We propose a parking space discovery scheme for solving the parking 
spaces searching problem in urban cities. Our scheme uses discrete cosine transformation to 
generate rough spatial distribution of parking spaces. Although this process decreases some 
accuracy but it also reduces the total communication overhead and drivers can get more accuracy 
information when getting closer to their destination. 
In the second year, two VANET protocols are offered, one for taxi hailing in cities and 
another for location service. In the proposed taxi hailing protocol, passengers book vacant taxis 
with the shortest driving distance to them for reducing the fuel cost. Our protocol significantly 
reduces booking time, waiting time of passengers, driving distance from booked taxi to 
passenger, and blocking time of passengers. Hence, in our protocol, the fuel cost and idle time of 
taxis could also be much decreased. In addition, we propose a novel location service system for 
vehicles. We use a road-adapted grid partition method to decrease location update packets, and 
employ RSUs to store a large number of location information. By adopting our system, vehicles 
can find the destination vehicle distributed within a small area. If the target is not within this area, 
then find within a larger area. Besides, we propose a packet collection method, which can be 
adapted with different size of collection area. 
In the third year, we propose a distributed routing protocol in VANETs with the help of 
RSUs. Our protocol efficiently utilizes the distributed characteristic of vehicular environments in 
making routes from source vehicles to destination vehicles in hybrid VANETs. We have designed 
the distributed position-based forwarding requests. The mechanism indicates receivers are closer 
to the destination by providing a shorter back-off time. We then use a hash-based location service 
to track the destination vehicle. With the aid of RSUs, the location service provides fewer routing 
requests to search for the destination vehicles. We proposed two distributed handover schemes 
   69 
the potential region without using extra devices or control messages, for example, broadcasting 
Hello messages. It then finds the destination vehicle in the MFA for packet delivery. In addition, 
network coding can reduce file delivery delay since no retransmission is required. Simulation 
results show that our proposed system using network coding performs better than without 
network coding. This system improves the performance of transmission efficiently due to 
reducing the average download time. In addition, we also propose a scheme to plan the routes for 
vehicular sensors patrolling a region of interest. The proposed scheme, namely Balanced Route 
Planning (BRP), aims to make the routes of vehicular sensors as short as possible and allot the 
patrolling load equally to the sensors. In order to guarantee the quality of the sensing tasks, 
routes of the vehicular sensors are constructed based on a set of carefully selected critical sensing 
locations. The vehicular sensors are then dispatched to visit the critical sensing locations to 
collect sensing data. Simulations are conducted to compare the performance for constructing 
balanced routes by BRP and the traditional mTSP algorithm. The balance condition of a 
patrolling plan is evaluated by the length differences of the longest route and the shortest one. 
From the simulations, the proposed BRP scheme can construct balanced patrolling paths 
effectively. 
References 
[1] M. Caliskan, D. Graupner, and M. Mauve, “Decentralized Discovery of Free Parking Places,” in 
Proceedings of the third ACM International Workshop on Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks, pp. 30-39, 
USA, Sep. 2006. 
[2] P. Heckbert, “Color Image Quantization for Frame Buffer Display,” Proceedings of Annual 
Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques, USA, pp. 297-307, Jul. 1982. 
[3] W. R. Heinzelman, A. Chandrakasan, H. Balakrishnan, “Energy-efficient Communication Protocol 
for Wireless Microsensor Networks,” Proceedings of Hawaii International Conference on System 
Sciences, USA , pp. 1-10, Jan. 2000. 
[4] C. Lochert, B. Scheuermann, and M. Mauve, “Probabilistic Aggregation for Data Dissemination in 
VANETs,” Proceedings of ACM International Workshop on Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks, Canada, pp. 
1-8, Sep. 2007. 
[5] P. Zhou, T. Nadeem, P. Kang, C. Borcea and L. Iftode, “EZCab: A Cab Booking Application 
Using Short-Range Wireless Communication,” Proceedings of IEEE Pervasive Computing 
and Communications, pp. 27-38, Mar. 2005. 
[6] T. Nadeem, P. Shankar, and L. Iftode, “A Comparative Study of Data Dissemination Models 
for VANETs,” Proceedings of ACM Mobile and Ubiquitous Systems: Networking & 
Services, pp. 1-10, Jul. 2006. 
[7] O. Tonguz, N. Wisitpongphan, F. Bai, P. Mudalige and V. Sadekar, “Broadcasting in 
VANET,” Proceedings of IEEE Mobile Networking for Vehicular Environments, pp. 7-12, 
May 2007. 
[8] H. Saleet, R. Langar, O. Basir and R. Boutaba, “Proposal and Analysis of Region-Based 
Location Service Management Protocol for VANETs,” Proceedings of the 2008 IEEE 
Global Telecommunications Conference (GLOBECOM), pp. 1-6, Dec. 2008. 
   71 
(QShine'06), Aug 2006. 
[23] Y. Yu, S. Murphy and L. Murphy (2008), “Planning Base Station and Relay Station 
Locations in IEEE 802.16j Multi-hop Relay Networks,” Proceedings of the 2008 IEEE 
Consumer Communications and Networking Conference (CCNC), Jan 2008 
[24] L. C. Wang, W. S. Su, J. H. Huang, A. Chen, and C. J. Chang(2008),”Optimal Relay 
Location in Multi-Hop Cellular Systems,” Proceedings of the 2008 IEEE Wireless 
Communications and Networking Conference (WCNC), April 2008. 
[25] H. C. Lu, Wanjiun Liao, “Joint Base Station and Relay Station Placement for IEEE 802.16j 
Networks,” Proceedings of the 2009 IEEE Global Telecommunications Conference 
(GLOBECOM), November 2009. 
[26] H. C. Lu, W. Liao, F. Y. S. Lin, “Relay Station Placement Strategy in IEEE 802.16j 
WiMAX Networks,” IEEE Transaction on Communication, vol. 59, no. 1, Jan. 2011. 
[27] C. Y. Chang, C. T. Chang, M. H. Li, and C. H. Chang, “A Novel Relay Placement 
Mechanism for Capacity Enhancement in IEEE 802.16j WiMAX Networks,” Proceedings 
of the IEEE International Conference on Communication (IEEE ICC), Jun. 2009. 
[28] C. E. Perkins and E. M. Royer, “Ad-hoc on-Demand distance vector routing,” Proceedings 
of the 2nd IEEE Workshop on Mobile Computing Systems and Applications (WMCSA’99), 
pp. 90, Feb. 1999. 
[29] W. Wang, F. Xie, and M. Chatterjee, “Small-scale and large-scale routing in vehicular ad hoc 
networks,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 58(9), pp. 5200-5213, Nov. 
2009. 
[30] M. Jerbi, S.-M. Senouci, T. Rasheed, and Y. Ghamri-Doudane, “Towards efﬁcient 
geographic routing in urban vehicular networks,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular 
Technology, vol. 58(9), pp. 5048-5059, Nov. 2009. 
[31] J. Nzouonta, N. Rajgure; G. Wang, and C. Borcea, “VANET routing on city roads using 
real-Time vehicular trafﬁc information,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 
58(7), pp. 3609-3626, Sept. 2009. 
[32] K. E. Lee, S.-H Lee, R. Cheung, U. Lee and M. Gerla, “First experience with CarTorrent in 
a real vehicular ad-hoc network testbed,” Proceedings of the workshop on Mobile Networks 
for Vehicular Environments, 2007.  
[33] M. Abuelela and S. Olariu, “ZIPPER: A zero-infrastructure peer-to-peer system for VANET,” 
Proceedings of the 3rd ACM International Workshop on Wireless Multimedia Networking 
and Performance Modeling (WMuNeP'07), Oct. 2007.  
[34] A. Nandan, S. Das, G. Pau, M. Gerla and M. Y. Sanadidi, “Co-operative downloading in 
vehicular ad-hoc wirelessZIPPER: A zero-infrastructure peer-to-peer system for VANET,” 
Proceedings of the 3rd ACM International Workshop on Wireless Multimedia Networking 
and Performance Modeling (WMuNeP'07), Oct. 2007. S.  
[35] S. Das, A. Nandan, G. Pau, M. Y. Sanadidi and M. Gerla, “SPAWN: A Swarming Protocol 
For Vehicular Ad-HocWireless Networks,” Proceedings of the 2nd ACM international 
workshop on Vehicular ad hoc networks (VANET’04), Oct. 2004. 
[36] Ahmed and S. S. Kanhere, “VANETCODE:  Network coding to enhance cooperative 
downloading in vehicular ad-hoc networks,” Proceedings of the 2006 international 
conference on Wireless communications and mobile computing (IWSMS’06), 2006.  
   73 
The self-evaluation of the achievement (結論與計畫成果自評) 
In the past three years, several protocols and algorithms are proposed in the four subprojects. 
They are published or accepted by the international journals or conferences. All the achievements 
are listed in the following. 
Publications 
Journal Papers: 
[1] J.-P. Sheu, K.-Y. Hsieh, and M.-L. Ding, “Routing with Hexagonal Virtual Coordinates in 
Wireless Sensor Networks,” Journal of Wireless Communications & Mobile Computing, 
Vol. 9, No. 9, pp.1206-1219, Sep. 2009. 
[2] J.-P. Sheu, W.-K. Hu, and J.-C. Lin, “Distributed Localization Scheme for Mobile Sensor 
Networks,” IEEE Trans. on Mobile Computing, Vol. 9, No. 4, pp. 516 - 526, Apr. 2010. 
[3] J.-L. Chiang, J.-P. Sheu, H.-C. Tseng, and T.-W. Chen, “An Efficient MAC Protocol with 
Cooperative Retransmission in Mobile Ad Hoc Networks,” Journal of Wireless 
Communications & Mobile Computing (accepted). 
[4] Yuh-Shyan Chen, Yun-Wei Lin, and Sing-Ling Lee, “A Mobicast Routing Protocol in 
Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks,” ACM/Springer Mobile Networks and Applications (MONET), 
Vol. 15, No. 1, pp. 20-35, Feb. 2010. (2009 SCI IF=1.013) 
[5] Yuh-Shyan Chen, Yun-Wei Lin, and Ci-Yi Pan, “DIR: Diagonal-Intersection-Based Routing 
Protocol for Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks,” Telecommunication System, Vol. 46, Issue 4, 
pp. 299-316, May 2011. (2010 SCI IF=0.67) 
[6] Yuh-Shyan Chen, Chih-Shun Hsu, and Ching-Hsueh Cheng, “Network Mobility Protocol 
for Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks,” Wireless Personal Communications, 2011. (2010 SCI 
IF=0.503) (under revision) (Partial result is presented at IEEE WCNC 2009, Budapest, 
Hungary, 5-8 April 2009) 
[7] Yuh-Shyan Chen, Chih-Shun Hsu, and Shih-Jr Jan, “A Shoelace-Based QoS Routing 
Protocol for Mobile Ad Hoc Networks Using Directional Antenna,” Wireless Personal 
Communications, Vol. 54, No. 2, pp. 361-384, July 2010. (2009 SCI IF=0.418) 
[8] Kuan-Lin Chiu, Ren-Hung Hwang, Yuh-Shyan Chen, “Cross-Layer Design Vehicle-Aided 
Handover Scheme in VANETs”, Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing, Vol. 11, 
Issue 7, pp. 916-928, July 2011. (2010 SCI IF=0.810). 
[9] Yuh-Shyan Chen, Chih-Shun Hsu, and Yi-Guang Siao, “Linear Regression-Based 
Delay-Bounded Routing Protocol for Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks,” Wireless 
Communications and Mobile Computing, 2011. (2010 SCI IF=0.810) (revision) (Partial 
result is presented at IEEE Vehicular Technology Conference 2010 
Spring (VTC-2010-Spring), Taipei, Taiwan, 2010). 
[10] Yuh-Shyan Chen, Chih-Shun Hsu, and Po-Ta Chen, “A Multiple Relay-Based Medium 
Access Control Protocol in Multirate Wireless Ad Hoc Networks with Multiple Beam 
Antennas,” International Journal of Communication Systems, Vol. 23, Issue 5, pp. 596-632, 
May 2010. 
[11] Yun-Wei Lin, Yuh-Shyan Chen, and Sing-Ling Lee, “Routing Protocols in Vehicular Ah 
   75 
[25] Y. Chang, C. T. Chang, Y. C. Chen and H. R. Chang, “Obstacle-Resistant Deployment 
Algorithms for Wireless Sensor Networks,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology 
(IEEE TVT), vol. 58, no. 6, Jul. 2009, pp. 2925-2941. 
[26] Y. Chang, J. P. Sheu and Y. C. Chen, “An Obstacle-Free and Power Efficient Deployment 
Algorithm for Wireless Sensor Networks,” IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and 
Cybernetics--Part A: Systems and Humans (IEEE TSMC-A), vol. 39, no. 4, Jul. 2009, pp. 
795-806. 
[27] Y. Chang, Y. C. Chen, L. L. Hung and  S. W. Chang, “A Novel Multi-Channel MAC 
Protocol with Directional Antenna for Enhancing Spatial Reuse and Bandwidth Utilization 
in WLANs,” Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing (JPDC), vol. 69, no. 10, Jul. 
2009, pp. 824-837. 
[28] K. P. Shih, H. C. Chen, C. Y. Chang and T. C. Kao, “The Development and Implementation 
of Scaffolding-Based Self-Regulated Learning System for e/m-Learning,” International 
Forum of Educational Technology & Society (IFETS), vol. 13, no. 1, Jan. 2010, pp. 80-93. 
[29] C. Y. Chang, C. T. Chang, Y. C. Chen and S. C. Lee, “Active Route-Guiding Protocols for 
Resisting Obstacles in Wireless Sensor Networks,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular 
Technology (IEEE TVT), vol. 59, no. 9, Nov. 2010, pp. 4425-4442. 
[30] C. Y. Chang, L. L. Hung, Y. J. Lu, S. W. Chang and Y. C. Chen, “Decentralized and 
Energy-Balanced Algorithms for Maintaining Temporal Full-Coverage in Mobile WSNs,”  
Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing (WCMC), 2010. 
[31] C. Y. Chang, S. C. Lee and Y. C. Chen, “Channel-Switching and Power Control 
Mechanisms for Improving Network Connectivity in Wireless Mesh Networks,” Wireless 
Communications and Mobile Computing (WCMC), vol. 11, no. 6, Jun. 2011, pp. 750-766.  
[32] C. Y. Chang, Y. J. Lu, J. P. Sheu and C. Y. Wang, “Adaptive Route Sharing Protocol for Data 
Collection in Wireless Sensor Networks,” to appear in International Journal of Ad Hoc and 
Ubiquitous Computing (IJAHUC), 2011. 
[33] C. Y. Chang, C. Y. Lin, G. J. Yu and C. H. Kuo, “An Energy-Efficient Hole-Healing 
Mechanism for Wireless Sensor Networks with Obstacles,” Wireless Communications and 
Mobile Computing (WCMC) 2011. 
[34] C. Y. Chang, C. Y. Lin, and C. T. Chang, “Tone-Based Localization for Distinguishing 
Relative Locations in Wireless Sensor Networks,” to appear in IEEE Sensors Journal, 2011. 
[35] T. Chang, C. Y. Chang, and C. Y. Lin, “Anchor-Guiding Mechanism for Beacon-Assisted 
Localization in Wireless Sensor Networks,” to appear in IEEE Sensors Journal, 2011. 
Conference Papers: 
[1] J.-P. Sheu, G.-Y. Chang, and Y.-W. Chen, “Virtual Landmarks Assisted Routing Protocol in 
Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks,” Proceedings of the 20th IEEE International Symposium on 
Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio Communications (PIMRC), Tokyo Japan, Sep. 2009. 
[2] J.-P. Sheu, G.-Y. Chang, and Y.-W. Chen, “Virtual Landmarks Assisted Routing Protocol in 
Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks,” Proceedings of the 20th IEEE International Symposium on 
Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio Communications (PIMRC), Tokyo Japan, Sep. 2009. 
[3] G.-Y. Chang, J.-P. Sheu, T.-Y. Lin, and K.-Y. Hsieh, “Cache-based Routing for Vehicular Ad 
Hoc Networks in City Environments,” Proceedings of the IEEE Wireless Communications 
   77 
IEEE International Workshop on Data Management in Ad Hoc and Pervasive Computing 
(IEEE DMAHPC), Taiwan, May 2009. 
[16] S. W. Chang, P. K. Sahoo, L. L. Hung, and C. Y. Chang, “A Location-and-Mobility Aware 
Routing Protocol for Bluetooth Radio Networks,” Proceedings of the 2009 IEEE 
International Conference on Ubi-media Computing (IEEE U-Media), Taiwan, Dec. 2009. 
[17] L. L. Hung, S. W. Chang, C. Y. Chang, and Y. C. Chen, “A Data-Centric Mechanism for 
Wireless Sensor Networks with Weighted Queries,” Proceedings of the 2009 IEEE 
International Conference on Ubi-media Computing (IEEE U-Media), Taiwan, Dec. 2009. 
[18] K. R. Lai, P. K. Sahoo, and C. Y. Chang, “Reduced Idle Listening based Medium Access 
Control Protocol for Wireless Sensor Networks,” Proceedings of the 2010 IEEE 
International Conference on Communications and Mobile Computing (IEEE CMC), China, 
Apr. 2010. 
[19] C. Y. Chang, L. L. Hung, C. Y. Lin, and M. H. Li, “On Distinguishing Relative Locations 
with Busy Tones for Wireless Sensor Networks,” Proceedings of the 2010 International 
Conference on Communication (IEEE ICC), South Africa, May 2010. 
[20] C. T. Chang, C. Y. Chang, and Y. J. Lu, “Maximizing Throughput by Exploiting Spatial 
Reuse Opportunities with Smart Antenna Systems,” Proceedings of the 2010 International 
Conference on Communication (IEEE ICC), South Africa, May 2010. 
[21] C. Y. Chang, Y. C. Chen, S. W. Chang, and S. C. Kuo, “On Supporting Obstacle-Free and 
Sharing Tree for Information Collection in WSNs,” Proceedings of the 2008 ACM 
International Conference on Sensor, Ad hoc, and Mech networks (ACM SAMNET 2008), 
Taiwan, Sep. 2008. 
[22] L. L. Hung, C. Y. Chang, C. C. Chen, and Y. C. Chen, “JTEF: Joint Throughput 
Enhancement and Fairness MAC Protocol for Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks,” Proceedings of 
the ACM 6th International Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing Conference 
(ACM IWCMC), France, Jun. 2010. 
[23] C. Y. Chang, C. T. Chang, C. Y. Hsieh, C. C. Chen, and Y. C. Chen, “A Dead-End Free 
Deployment Algorithm for Wireless Sensor Networks with Obstacles,” Proceedings of the 
ACM 6th International Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing Conference 
(ACM IWCMC), France, Jun. 2010. 
[24] C. Y. Chang, W. C. Chu, C. Y. Lin, and C. F. Cheng, “Energy-Balanced Hole-Movement 
Mechanism for Temporal Full-Coverage in Mobile WSNs,” Proceedings of the ACM 6th 
International Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing Conference (ACM 
IWCMC), France, Jun. 2010. 
[25] L. L. Hung, C. Y. Chang, T. L. Wang, and C. Y. Hsiao, “JLR: Joint Localization and Routing 
for Energy Balance and Obstacle Resistence in WSNs,” Proceedings of the IEEE 
International Conference on Vehicular Electronics and Safety (IEEE ICVES), China, Jul. 
2011. 
[26] C. T. Chang, C. Y. Chang,  L. L. Hung, C. Y. Hsiao, and C. Y. Lin, “Location-Aware Power 
Saving Mechanism Based on Adaptive Quorum Systems for Mobile Ad Hoc Networks,” 
Proceedings of the 2011 IEEE International Conference on Vehicular Electronics and Safety 
(IEEE ICVES), China, Jul. 2011. 
[27] T.-L. Chin, “Sensor Deployment for Collaborative Target Detection in the Presence of 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/09/29
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 總計畫
計畫主持人: 許健平
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-007-039-MY3 學門領域: 計算機網路與網際網路 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 嵌入式防竊系統及其執行防竊之方法
(英文) Embedded anti-thief system and method thereof for executing anti-thief
成果歸屬機構
國立清華大學 發明人
(創作人)
許健平,陳奕彰
技術說明
(中文) 本技術係關於一種嵌入式防竊系統及其方法，其系統之架構包括：一遠端伺服器
模組、一嵌入式作業模組與一核心模組，其中，該遠端伺服器模組更包括一網頁
伺服單元、一檔案傳輸協定單元與一資料庫單元；該嵌入式作業模組係設置於待
防護電腦之主要儲存模組之內；該核心模組則設置於該待防護電腦之韌體之內。
如此，藉由上述嵌入式防竊系統之架構，可於待防護電腦的開機過程之中，檢驗
電腦目前的安全狀態，當電腦處於不安全狀態時，則該嵌入式作業模組開始執行，
以進行一連串檢驗流程，並將檢驗結果回傳至遠端伺服器模組，使用者可依照檢
驗結果找到失竊之電腦。
(英文) The primary objective of the present technique is to provide an embedded anti-thief 
system, in which, a core firmware module and an embedded system module are 
respectively disposed in a firmware and a hard disk device of a portable computer, so as 
to detect the security status of the portable computer; moreover, the IP of the portable 
computer is simultaneously monitored by a cloud server module, so that, the portable 
computer is able to be prevented from being thieved.
產業別 資訊服務業
技術/產品應用範圍
本技術可應用於筆記型電腦、手機、多媒體播放器等可攜式裝置，透過將嵌入式作業模
組與核心模組分別地裝設於主要儲存模組與韌體之內，即可有效地發揮防竊盜之功能。
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
本技術具移轉可行性，預期可技轉之廠商包括國內外從事筆記型電腦、手機、多媒體播
放器等可攜式裝置相關產業的公司，例如：
Acer、ASUS、BenQ、HP、Apple、HTC、SONY、Toshiba等。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
