catalysts through decomposition of the stabilizing shells with only a limited particle growth. 
The compositions of Pt and additive metals are all found to be close to that in the origin 
precursor solution by energy-dispersive X-ray analysis. From X-ray diffraction and 
electron diffraction patterns, all Pt and Pt-based nanoparticles displayed the face-centered 
cubic crystal structures, whereas the Pt20Ru80, Pt20Co80 and Pt20Sn80 nanoparticles showed 
more typical hexagonal close-packed lattice structure. The average sizes of the particles 
calculated from XRD peak widths are consistent with TEM results. X-ray photoelectron 
spectroscopy revealed that the metallic Pt0 is the predominant species in all the Pt-based 
catalysts. A mixed phase of Pt0 metal and Ru oxides together with a small amount of Ru 
metal existed in the PtRu/C catalysts. Similarly, the content of Co oxides was substantially 
higher in relation to Co metal in the PtCo/C catalysts. A substantial amount of Sn oxides 
existed in comparison with metallic Sn0 in the PtSn/C catalysts. 
     The electrochemical performance of the catalysts was evaluated by cyclic 
voltammetry and chronoamperometry. The heat-treated catalysts were, as expected, more 
active than the as-prepared ones due to the successful removal of the stabilizing shells. 
Additionally, the electrochemical surface area of the Pt/C catalyst was found to be similar 
to that of the commercially available E-TEK catalyst (Pt/C, 20 wt.%). The Pt/C catalyst 
with the [N]/[Pt] ratio of 20 showed the best activity toward methanol electro-oxidation as 
compared with the [N]/[Pt] ratios of 5, 10 and 50. The presence of Ru and Co enhanced the 
activity of Pt toward methanol electro-oxidation. The Pt50Ru50/C and Pt70Co30/C catalysts 
showed the best catalytic activity toward methanol electro-oxidation and CO tolerance 
among the PtRu and PtCo systems, respectively and the former was a more appropriate 
anode catalyst than the later in this work.  
Keywords: proton conducting membrane, organic-inorganic, polyethyleniminated, fuel 
cells, catalyst. 
 ii
 2.2.7 Characterizations…………………………………………... 33
Chapter 3. Results and Discussion……………………………………………...... 39
3.1 Microstructure and Protonic Conductivity of H3PO4-doped 
Polyethylenimine– Siloxane Chemically Covalently 
Organic–Inorganic Hybrids……………………………………………. 39
 3.1.1 Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR)…………. 40
 3.1.2 Thermal Behavior …..…………………………………...… 42
 3.1.3 1H MAS NMR……………………………………………... 44
 3.1.4 13C CP/MAS NMR………………………………………… 45
 3.1.5 29Si MAS NMR……………………………………………. 46
 3.1.6 31P MAS NMR…………………………………………….. 49
3.2 Morphology and Composition Characterization of Carbon-Supported 
catalysts………………………………………………………………... 51
 3.2.1 Morphology and Optical Properties of As-Prepared Pt and 
PtRu Nanoparticles………………………………………… 51
 3.2.2 Morphology of As-Prepared PtCo and PtSn Nanoparticles.. 55
 3.2.3 Thermal Decomposition of D400(EI)20……………………. 58
 3.2.4 Physicochemical Properties of Pt/C Electrocatalysts............ 59
 3.2.5 Physicochemical Properties of PtRu/C Electrocatlysts……. 65
 3.2.6 Physicochemical Properties of PtCo/C Electrocatlysts…..... 69
 3.2.7 Physicochemical Properties of PtSn/C Electrocatlysts……. 74
3.3 The Study of X-ray Diffraction (XRD)………………………………... 77
 3.3.1 XRD Patterns of Pt/C Catalysts with Different 
Heat-Treatment Times……………………………………... 
77
 3.3.2 XRD Patterns of PtRu/C Catalysts with Different Atomic 
Ratios…………………………………................................. 
79
 3.3.3 XRD Patterns of PtCo/C Catalysts with Different Atomic 
Ratios…………………………………................................. 
81
 3.3.4 XRD Patterns of PtSn/C Catalysts with Different Atomic 
Ratios…………………………………................................. 
84
3.4 Surface Analysis by X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS)……….. 86
 3.4.1 Surface Phenomenon of Pt/C and PtRu/C Catalysts………. 86
 3.4.2 Surface Phenomenon of PtCo/C Catalyst………………….. 90
 3.4.3 Surface Properties of PtSn/C Catalyst……………………... 93
 3.4.4 Removal of D400(EI)20 Followed by XPS Investigation….. 94
3.5 Electrochemical Characterization……………………………………... 97
 3.5.1 Electrochemical Behavior of Pt/C Catalysts with Different 
 iv
Chapter 1. Introduction 
1.1 Direct Methanol Fuel Cells (DMFCs) 
    1.1.1 General Concepts 
 The direct methanol fuel cell (Figure 1.1) is a special form based on proton exchange 
membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs) working at low and intermediate temperature (up to 150 oC) 
and employing solid polymer electrolytes (i.e. Nafion®) for proton conducting. Although 
hydrogen itself has a high energy density, it is very difficult to contain. In DMFCs, 
methanol is directly fed into the fuel cell without the intermediate step of reforming the 
alcohol into hydrogen. It operates at temperatures similar to PEMFCs although it can also 
run at slightly higher temperatures, dependent on the electrolyte and fuel feed. Additionally, 
methanol is an easily available and low-cost liquid fuel from natural gas or renewable 
biomass resources that has a high specific energy density. The DMFCs utilize liquid fuel to 
deliver continuous power but they have higher utilization efficiencies and intrinsically 
lower polluting emissions with respect to internal combustion engines. Since transportation 
represents a significant portion of world consumption and contributes considerably to 
atmosphere pollution, the development of an appropriate fuel cell system is an important 
issue from both economical and environmental points of view. In order to be competitive 
within the transport market, the DMFCs must be reasonably cheap and capable of 
delivering a high power density. All aspects related to fuel cells stack development are of 
particular relevance including materials, design of cell housing, bipolar plates, gaskets, and 
stack auxiliaries. All these materials and device contribute to the finally characteristics of 
practical devices determining their performance, efficiency and cost. At present, the cost of 
the entire system is mainly determined by the presence of noble metals in the catalysts and 
the development of other types of proton exchange membranes.1         
 1
1.1.2 Solid Polymer Electrolyte: Proton Exchange Membrane 
     Nafion® (Figure 1.2) which has been developed through several variants since the 
1960s is probably the most studied and employed solid electrolyte for DMFCs, but other 
perfluorocarbonsulfonic acid ionomers, such as the membranes from DOW, Aciplex, Gore, 
and Asahi Chemical, are also used.  
CF2 CF2* CF CF2
O
CF2 CF CF2 SO3H
CF3
n
 
* n
 
m
 
 
Figure 1.2. Example structure of a suphonated fluoroethylene (also called perfluorosulphonic acid PTFE 
copolymer). 
     Take the Nafion® as an example in Figure 1.3. The strong bonds between the 
fluorine and the carbon make it durable and resistant to chemical attack. Another important 
property is that it is strongly hydrophobic and so it prevents from flooding. The HSO3 
group added is ionically bonded and so the end of the side chain is actually the SO3- ion.  
 
 
Figure 1.3. The structure of the Nafion-type membrane material. Long chain molecules containing hydrated 
regions around the sulphonated side chains.  
 3
promising properties even through there has been no clear demonstration of their use in 
DMFCs.   
1.1.3 Organic-Inorganic Solid Polymer Electrolyte 
It is well-established that H-SPE can be obtained by doping polymers bearing ether, 
alcohol, imine, amide, or imide groups with strong acid such as H2SO4 or H3PO4. This 
simple concept is now extended to more complicated systems to improve the mechanical 
and conducting properties. In particular, the organic–inorganic hybrid materi materials can 
be structurally and chemically modified to form new materials with a nanosized 
interconnecting network of organic and inorganic macromolecule. These hybrids combine 
the flexibility of organic polymer with the presence of an inorganic network, which 
provides higher chemical stabilities and better mechanical properties than pure organic 
polymers.  
Proton-conductiveorganic–inorganichybridmembranes have been reported by many 
researchers. However, the proton conductivity of these hybrid membranes dramatically 
decreases with temperature above the boiling temperature of water because of the loss of 
absorbed water in the membranes. In an attempt to obtain proton-conductive membranes 
with good film forming properties, high proton conductivity under medium temperature 
and good mechanical strength, a series of crosslinked polysiloxane/poly(allylamine) 
networks doped with H3PO4 and HCl were prepared and studied in our previous work. In 
the present study, a series of dual-cured polyethylenimine–siloxane hybrids through 
epoxide crosslinking and inorganic polymerization were prepared based on branched poly 
(ethylenimine), 3-glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane (GPTMS), and ortho-phosphoric acid 
(H3PO4), in which H3PO4 acts as proton donors. Figure 1.4 shows the idealized structure of 
organic–inorganic hybrid host. The polyethylenimine segments in these hybrids are 
designed not only to act as a solvent enabling the establishment of hydrogen bonds with  
 5
1.2 Electrocatalysts for DMFCs 
1.2.1 General Features 
     The principle of fuel cells was conceived two centuries ago by Sir William Grove.6 
The applications, however, have always been limited by inadequacy in material 
performances. The activity of catalysts for methanol electro-oxidation needs to be 
improved, although Pt-based compounds have shown the highest activity so far. Compared 
to hydrogen oxidation, however, the catalytic activity toward methanol oxidation is not 
effective. Furthermore, limitations in the operating temperature, sluggish methanol 
oxidation kinetics and methanol crossover through the solid electrolytes have hindered the 
progress of DMFCs. It is found early on that addition of other metals to Pt can enhance the 
catalytic activity dramatically for methanol oxidation. Species such as Re, Ru, Os, Rh, Mo, 
Co, Bi, and Sn have been found to have a positive effect on the catalytic activity towards 
methanol electro-oxidation. For all these metals, the determining factor for promotion is 
the formation of the OH species on the secondary metals at the potentials lower than on Pt. 
The OH species is necessary for the further oxidation of intermediate adsorbates. It is still 
crucial, however, to employ higher noble metal loadings for DMFCs. Several efforts are 
devoted toward the development of binary, ternary and quaternary catalysts for higher 
activity of methanol electro-oxidation. Among all types of catalysts mentioned, the PtRu is 
still considered to be the most active catalyst for DMFCs.     
1.2.2 Methods for Preparation of Carbon-Supported Metal Nanoparticles 
     The procedures to prepare carbon-supported metal nanoparticles including 
impregnation method, the colloidal method and the microemulsion method are shown in 
Figure 1.5. The detail interpretations for these processes are described below:2, 7  
 7
     (2) Colloidal Method.7, 9 The colloidal method is used widely for synthesizing metal 
nanoparticles with a good ability to morphology control. The procedure is shown 
schematically in the second flow line of Figure 1.5. In the presence of a protecting agent, 
such as surfactant molecules, the metal precursor is chemically reduced to form metal 
nanoparticles. A narrow size distribution is achieved as the colloidal metal nanoparticles 
are stabilized either by steric hindrance or by electrostatic charges. Examples of common 
protecting ligands include NR4+, PPh3, PVP, and PVA. However, the major drawback is 
also the presence of protecting agent, which may also block the catalytic function of the 
nanoparticles. Thus, the removal of the protecting shells is necessary for the practical 
applications. The organic protecting agent can be removed by washing in an appropriate 
solvent or by decomposition at elevated temperature in an inert atmosphere. It would be 
preferable to use an alternative route of preparing colloidal metal nanoparticles without the 
use of protecting agent.10 The use of sodium hydroxide (NaOH) dissolved in ethyl glycol 
as the solvent appear to be suitable for preparation of a number of metal nanoparticles, 
especially for platinum, without the use of protecting agent for the fuel cell applications. 
     (3) Microemulsion Method.11 The microemulsion method is illustrated as the 
bottom process of Figure 1.5. This method may offer unique flexibility in the simultaneous 
control of size and composition of mixed metal nanoparticles. A co-surfactant is sometimes 
added to modify the size of the microemulsion. The introduction of a reducing agent, e.g. 
hydrazine (N2H4), into the microemulsion is achieved by stirring and the reaction time is in 
the order of minutes. After the reduction step, nanoparticles are stabilized from 
agglomeration by the surfactant molecules. For binary electrocatalysts, e.g. PtRu or PtCo, 
the final composition of the mixed metal can be easily controlled by the ratios of the metal 
precursor solutions. The control of particle size and size distribution in the microemulsion 
method appears to be tolerant of small variations in process parameters such as the amount 
 9
surface area, hydrophobicity, morphology, porosity and corrosion resistance are also 
important factors in the choice of a good catalyst support. Based on these considerations, 
carbon is the best material as catalyst support for low temperature fuel cells. Carbon black 
and activated carbons have been extensively used as a catalyst support, with Vulcan XC-72 
being the most representative. In the last decade, a number of new synthetic carbons with 
various mesostructures and nanostructures have been reported. These include carbon 
nanotube (CNT),12 aerogel carbon13 and mesocarbon with or without a high degree of 
order.14    
 
1.3 Improments of Materials for DMFCs 
 
     The most pressing problems associated with DMFCs are that the fuel anode reaction 
proceeds so much more slowly than with hydrogen. Another major problem is “methanol 
crossover”, which means methanol will reach the air cathode during the operation of 
DMFC. The reaction of the fuel at the cathode is not a waste of fuel – it will reduce the cell 
voltage. This phenomenon is sometimes called a “mixed potential”. It is important to 
attempt to improve the materials for electrode and electrolyte for DMFCs. That said, it is 
worth emphasizing the areas where improvements would be highly advantageous:3
     (1) The activity of the anode must be further improved, either by increasing the 
operating temperature (currently limited by the properties of the Nafion® membranes in 
DMFCs), or by identifying improved electrocatalysts. The anode catalyst must be made as 
active as possible, within the bounds of reasonable cost. Also, the highly active 
electrocatalysts reduce the methanol access to cathode side. 
     (2) The current loadings of noble metal need to be reduced even though the 
economic arguments for very low loadings do need to be re-assessed in the light of more 
 11
force (∆E) at 25 oC and 1 atm are ∆G = –686 kJ mol-1 and ∆E = 1.18 V, respectively.15 
Various reaction intermediates may be formed during methanol oxidation.16 Some of these 
(CO-like) species are irreversibly adsorbed on the catalyst surface and severely poison Pt 
for the occurrence of the overall reaction, which has the effect of significantly reducing the 
fuel consumption efficiency and the power density of the fuel cell. Thus, it is very 
important to develop new electrocatalysts to inhibit the poisoning and significantly 
increase the rate of methanol oxidation by at least a factor of two to three times.    
 
Scheme 1.1. Stages in the electro-oxidation of methanol at the anode of direct methanol 
fuel cells (DMFCs). [1] 
  
 Additional reactions have also been suggested for the process of methanol 
electro-oxidation process, as presented in Scheme 1.1,4, 17 to show the possible reaction 
pathways and products. Much research is being rendered on catalysts for methanol 
electro-oxidation to find a catalyst which avoids the poisoning effect of intermediate 
species. Several promoters have been found to increase the activity of the Pt 
electrocatalysts. One of the most important and most investigated promoters is ruthenium 
(Ru).18 A bimetallic alloy, consisting of Pt and Ru supported on carbon, has thus far been 
the most successful catalyst in direct methanol fuel cells. Other promoters such as tin (Sn), 
osmium (Os), tungsten (W), cobalt (Co), nickel (Ni), molybdenum (Mo) and other metals 
have also been investigated.19-23  
 13
groups with neighboring methanolic residues to give carbon dioxide (CO2): 
 
Pt–OH + Pt–CO → 2 Pt + CO2 + H+ + 1e-                    (1.10) 
 
 The overall oxidation process of methanol to carbon dioxide proceeds through six 
electrons donation process. However, the rate determining step (RDS), derived from 
electrochemical steady-state measurements on Pt, through the analysis of the Tafel slope, 
and involves a one-electron step. On a pure Pt surface, the dissociative chemisorption of 
water on Pt is the RDS at potentials below ≈ 0.7 V vs. RHE, i.e. in the potential region 
which is of technical interest. It is generally accepted that an active catalyst for methanol 
electro-oxidation should give rise to water discharging at low potential and to “labile” CO 
chemisorption. 
 
1.5 Promoting Effects of Ru, Sn and Co: The Bi-functional Mechanism and Ligand 
Effect  
1.5.1 PtRu Binary Electrocatalysts 
     It is generally accepted that Pt sites in PtRu alloy are involved in particular in both 
the methanol dehydrogenation and in the strong chemisorption of methanol residues. The 
catalytic action of PtRu proceeds mainly based on the so-called “bi-functional 
mechanism”.24 Water discharging occurs easily on Ru sites with the formation of Ru–OH 
groups at suitable electrode potentials (i.e. 0.2 V vs. RHE) on the catalyst surface (Eq. 1. 
11):25
 
Ru + H2O → Ru–OH + H+ + 1e-                            (1.11) 
The final step is the reaction of Ru–OH groups with neighboring methanolic residues 
 15
to accommodate the electrons donated by CO in its unfilled orbital. The increase in the Pt 
5d-band vacancies produced by Ru atoms as interpreted by Mukerjee and McBreen,28 
would imply an increase in Pt–CO bond strength which in effect would retard the reaction 
of methanol electro-oxidation. From all this evidence, one may conclude that the addition 
of Ru to Pt markedly increases the electrocatalytic activity of Pt through the adsorption of 
oxygrnated species on Ru-sites. On this basis, the promoting action of Ru mainly arises 
from the easier chemisorption of oxygen from water at lower electrode potentials. 
Nevertheless, some modifications of the electronic environment around Pt may occur 
during the interface formation, since the uptake of oxygen functionalities from water could 
modify the electron accepting characteristics of Ru atoms. Recently, Iwashita et al.29 have 
emphasized the bi-functional mechanism for methanol electro-oxidation on the PtRu 
system. It may be rationalized from the in-situ experiments described above that the 
promotional effect of Ru can be ascribed to the contribution of both the bi-functional and 
ligand effects.27 But, the ligand effect in the Pt-Ru system appears to be significantly less 
prominent and it has still not found in the results obtained from a number of surface 
techniques including XPS.30
 Some PtRu catalysts show a lower Ru content (as detected by XRD) with respect to 
the nominal composition. The remaining Ru atoms are present RuOx species that may be 
composed of crystalline tetragonal RuO2 or amorphous Ru-oxide. The oxide species are 
generally detected by XRD or TEM if they have a crystalline structure (frequently RuO2 
tetragonal), whereas X-ray adsorption spectroscopy (both EXAFS and XANES) and in 
some cases XPS may give information on the amorphous Ru-oxide species.31 Often, TEM 
micrographs of carbon supported PtRu samples show some agglomeration of particles 
having similar dimension but characterized by a different atomic contrast. The interlayer 
spacing of PtRu alloy particles that may be observed at high magnification is about 2.25 – 
 17
the case of Pt-Ru alloy. XPS shows a shift of 0.5 eV to lower binding energies for the Ru 
3p3/2 photo-electron peak of the reduced PtRu sample compared to the Pt-RuOx catalyst. 
The difference in the electrochemical results is interpreted on the basis of a need for labile 
oxygen species on the electrocatalyst surface and oxygen atoms which are not strongly 
bonded. In fact, the first oxygen species can be more easily transferred to methanolic 
residues adsorbed on Pt.      
 
Figure 1.7. Comparison of the anode polarization curves for methanol electro-oxidation at 130 oC for DMFC. 
[2] 
1.5.2 PtCo Binary Electrocatalysts 
        Among the binary Pt alloys developed with enhanced catalytic activity and 
improved CO tolerance in mind, the Pt-Ru and Pt-Sn systems have been the most 
extensively investigated. While the effectiveness of the Pt-Sn catalysts is still an ongoing 
debate,34, 35 the Pt-Ru catalysts are generally recognized as the most active methanol 
electro-oxidation catalyst currently available. The efficiency of DMFCs operating on Pt-Ru 
is, however, still insufficient for most practical purposes. Moreover, there is a significant 
problem concerning the Ru resources. Ruthenium is a scarcer element than Pt and the 
fraction of Ru in the mined platinum-group metals is usually less than 10 % (depending on 
the mine),36 and the toxicological effect of Ru remains questionable. Therefore, it is 
 19
potential. The presence of Co oxides provides an oxygen sources for CO further oxidation 
at high potential. Additionally, based on the Pourbaix diagram,42 Pt is slightly soluble in 
chloride solutions at pH = 2. So it can be speculated that in acid conditions a process of 
dissolution and precipitation of metal particles takes place, promoting in this way the 
mixing of Pt and Co atoms and the growth of the carbon-supported metal particles. Indeed, 
in basic medium Pt-Co crystallites nucleate and grow on the same site of the carbon 
support up to the final particle size.43 In acid medium, instead, smaller alloy particles 
dissolve before reaching the final size, following the saturation of the solution, Pt and Co 
re-deposition occurs on pre-existing alloy particles. Therefore, significantly greater 
alloying and increased size are observed in the PtCo catalysts prepared in acid medium as 
reported by Salgado et al.44
1.5.3 PtSn Binary Electrocatalysts 
     Although there is conclusive evidence on the catalytic promotion of methanol 
electro-oxidation on the PtRu system in relation to Pt, controversial results have been 
reported for the promotional effect of Sn. Tin favors the low potential oxidation of CO and 
CO-like intermediates formed during the chemical adsorption of methanol and ethanol 
resulting in the improvement at lower potentials and the increase of the reaction rate. As 
stated above, Ru favors the CO-like species oxidative removal and initiates methanol 
electro-oxidation at more negative potentials. By contrast, the promotion of the CO 
oxidation reaction on PtSn catalysts appears mainly to be due to the modification of the 
electronic environment around the Pt sites.45 The surface characteristics of PtSn alloy are 
of considerable significance for the reaction of alcohol oxidation. The different electronic 
environments around Pt sites in PtSn should invoke different routes for the methanol 
electro-oxidation.24 It is observed an around 1.1 eV shift in the X-ray near edge spectrum 
(XANES) of the PtSn/C catalyst with respect to the Pt-only catalyst, from which one could 
 21
reported by Markovic et al.,52 the Pt3Sn bulk alloy was found to be significantly more 
active than the PtRu system for CO oxidation. However, higher electrode potentials 
produce a negative effect due to the strong adsorption of OH species on Sn-sites and hinder 
the methanol electro-oxidation. The formation of stable tin-oxide species on the surface 
during catalyst preparation or electrode activation procedures has been observed. The 
higher content of Sn oxide due to the fact that Sn is increased can lead to the decrement of 
the anode electronic conductivity. However, the presence of these compounds on the 
electrode surface plays a significant role since the electrocatalyst is operated in a potential 
regime in which oxide must not be present but where the supply of active oxygen is 
important. The formation of labile-bonded oxygen species occurs more easily on an 
oxide-free surface and in this context the water discharging reaction occurs more easily on 
Ru rather than on Sn sites. Generally, properly reduced PtSn surfaces are difficult to bring 
about. In this context, a Pt surface containing Sn ad-atoms often performs better than bulk 
or carbon supported PtSn alloy catalysts.50a
     The main advantages of methanol are its availability, low price and the easiness of 
storage as a liquid, but the question of the toxicity remains crucial.  In recent decades, 
carbon-supported PtSn nanoparticles are widely used as anode catalysts for direct ethanol 
fuel cell (DEFC),53 even if the actual performance obtained is slightly lower than that 
observed with methanol. As reported by Zhou et al.,34 the extended lattice parameter of 
PtSn/C catalyst favors the C–C bond cleavage and CO-like intermediates formed during 
the breaking of C–C bond are oxidatively removed by the surface oxygen-containing 
species. It is found that PtSn/C catalyst shows a better electrocatalytic performance for 
ethanol oxidation than PtRu/C catalyst.2 In the presence of Sn the alcohol oxidation 
process proceeds as a homogeneous catalytic reaction with the participation of complexed 
Sn4+ ions. It can be illustrated by the following reaction:54 (i) ethanol molecules in solution 
 23
shown in Figure 1.8. The conventional technology, used until a few years ago, consists of 
the preparation of gas-diffusion electrodes with a suitable polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) 
content in both the diffusion and catalyst layers. Nafion® ionomer is spread onto the 
electrocatalyst layer, followed by the preparation of the membrane – electrode assembly by 
a hot-pressing procedure. In Figure 1.9, a portion of the catalyst/electrolyte is shown 
enlarged. It can be seen that the electrolyte material spreads out over the catalyst, which 
does not cover the catalyst, but makes a direct connection between catalyst and electrolyte. 
A disadvantage of this procedure is that the Nafion® impregnated into the active layer of 
the electrode has a limited penetration depth. This drawback reduces the electrochemical 
active area between electrocatalyst particles and ionomer, thus decreasing the catalyst 
utilization. The function of PTFE in the catalyst layer is to provide a network for gas 
transport and to give structural integrity to the layer. However, it has been shown that the 
ionic path in the electrocatalytic layer due to the recast ionomer is hindered on the surface 
 
Figure 1.9. (a) Simplified and idealized structure of a electrode for PEMFCs. (b) Enlargement of part of (a), 
showing that the electrolyte reaches out to the catalyst particles. [1]   
 25
 The operation of DMFCs with an air feed requires the development of the cathode 
layer to take into account the differences from an oxygen-fed electrode. As air is fed to the 
cathode side, while oxygen reacts to produce water, the nitrogen contained in the feed 
stream remains trapped in the pores of the electrode. The trapped nitrogen is a diffusion 
barrier for the incoming oxygen and results in mass transport overpotential performance 
losses even at intermediate current densities. Furthermore, although it is known that 
oxygen permeability through the ionomer is high, at high current densities, the transport of 
this gas to the reaction sites is retarded by the flooding of the electrocatalyst layer. Due to 
the flooding of the active layer, the ionomer swells until it is saturated with water, thus 
increasing the hydrophilicity of the layer. Such drawbacks have been conveniently reduced 
in air feed SPE fuel cells by using thin film electrodes with low electrocatalyst loadings 
(0.05 – 0.1 mgPt cm-2). Due to the lower performance of the oxygen electrode with such 
low Pt loadings in DMFCs, alternative solutions need to be investigated.   
 
 27
resolution of 2 cm-1, and a minimum of 64 scans was signalaveraged at room temperature. 
Each sample was prepared by mixing with potassium bromide (KBr) pellet and films were 
vacuum-dried to remove the absorbed water in the sample.  
High-resolution solid-state NMR experiments were carried out on a Bruker AVANCE 
400 spectrometer, equipped with a 7 mm double-resonance probe. The Larmor frequencies 
for 1H, 13C, 29Si, and 31P nuclei are, respectively, 400.17, 100.58, 79.46, and 161.98 MHz. 
Magic angle spinning (MAS) of the samples in the range of 3–5 kHz was employed for 
obtaining NMR spectra. The Hartmann-Hahn condition for 1H/13C cross-polarization (CP) 
experiments was determined using adamantane, and proton decoupling was applied during 
acquisition to enhance the spectra sensitivity. The 29Si, 13C, and 1H chemical shifts were 
externally referenced to tetramethylsilane (TMS) at 0.0 ppm. 31P chemical shifts were 
referenced to ortho-phosphoric acid.  
Differential scanning calorimeter (DSC) (Du Pont TA2010) measurements were 
conducted over the temperature ranges of 50 to 150 oC at a heating rate of 10 oC/min under 
dry nitrogen atmosphere. The samples sealed into aluminum pans were first heated at 150 
oC for 10 min to remove the thermal history, cooled down to 50 oC and then scanned. All 
the thermograms are baseline corrected and calibrated against Indium metal. The glass 
transition zone was determined as the temperature range between two intersection points of 
the baselines with the extrapolated sloping portion of the thermogram, which resulted from 
a heat capacity change. Glass transition temperatures (Tg) were reported as the midpoint of 
the transition process. Thermal stability was determined with a thermogravimetric (TG) 
analyzer (Perkin–Elmer TGA 7) over a temperature range of 30–800 oC at a heating rate of 
20 oC/min under nitrogen atmosphere.  
Protonic conductivity measurements were conducted by an a.c. impedance technique 
using an electrochemical impedance analyzer (CH Instrument Model 604A, USA) under an 
 29
stirring. The color of the resulting solutions changed to brown within 30 min indicating the 
formation of Pt nanoparticles.  
 
 
Scheme 2.1. The synthetic procedures of the dumbbell-like polyethyleniminated poly(oxypropylene)diamine 
(D400(EI)20). [75a] 
2.2.3 Syntheses of PtRu, PtCo and PtSn Alloy Nnanoparticles 
 Several binary nanoparticles including PtRu, PtCo and PtSn were prepared in this 
study. All of them were labeled as PtxAy, where A denotes the additive metals to Pt and the 
subscripts (x and y) refer to the atomic percentage of the respective alloying metal. The 
co-reduction method was taken to reduce metal precursors in a single step and the [N]/[M] 
ratio was fixed at 20. For example, 4.1 × 10-2 M of H2PtCl6, 9.97 × 10-2 M of RuCl3 and 
10-2 M of D400(EI)20 were mixed in the starting solution. Then, 100 ml of 5 × 10-3 M of 
NaBH4 was introduced to form the PtRu nanoparticles. The Pt : Ru atomic ratios in the 
nanoparticles were well-controlled by altering the initial concentrations of Pt and Ru in the 
precursor solution. The syntheses of the binary PtCo and PtSn nanoparticles were carried 
out similarly. In this study, Pt80M20, Pt70M30, Pt50M50, Pt20M80 were chosen to use in the 
 31
(Pt/C or PtxAy/C) was dispersed in isopropanol and stirred vigorously under ultrasonication 
for 1 h. Then 0.1 ml of 2.5 wt.% Nafion® solution was added as adhesive and proton 
conductor by keeping the ratio of catalyst to Nafion® (dry) at 1 : 3. The mixture went 
through ultrasonication for 1 h again. The resulting ink was spread on a Teflonized carbon 
paper and dried in oven under vacuum at 60 oC for 3 h. The surface area of the vitreous 
carbon disk was 1 cm2. Finally, hot-pressing was performed on working electrodes with a 
pressure of 10 kg cm-2 at 70 oC for 30 s.  
2.2.6 Preparation of Membrane Electrode Assembly (MEA) 
The MEA for the single cell test was obtained by hot-pressing pretreated proton 
exchange membranes together with the anode and cathode electrodes on both sides by 
compaction with a pressure of 25 kg cm-2 at 135 oC for 90 s. Nafion® 117 membranes were 
served as solid electrolytes and pretreated by boiling in 3 wt.% H2O2 for 1 h and then in 0.5 
M H2SO4 for 1 h. The anode and cathode were Teflon-containing carbon papers with the 
home-made catalysts (Pt/C or PtRu/C, 20 wt.% loading) and E-TEK Pt catalysts (20 wt.% 
loading), respectively. The metal loading of anode and cathode were approximately 2 mg 
cm-2 in all cases. The flow sheet for the preparation of the home-made electrodes is 
summarized in Figure 2.1. 
2.2.7 Characterizations 
     The morphology, size and size distribution of these catalysts were characterized by 
transmission electron microscopy (TEM) using JEOL JEM 1200-EX and JEOL 
JEM-1200CXⅡ microscope operating at 80 kV and 120 kV, respectively. To determine the 
metal content in alloy nanoparticles, high-resolution transmission electron microscopy 
(HR-TEM) was acquired by Hitachi Model HF-2000 field emission transmission electron 
microscope equipped with Noran Model Voyager 1000 detection unit at 200 kV for 
 33
performed on JEOL JSM-6700F to observe the cross-sectional region of membrane 
electrode assembly (MEA). 
     UV-vis spectra were taken on a Beckman Coulter DU-800 spectrophotometer to 
characterize the optical properties of Pt and PtRu alloy nanoparticles. In order to analyze 
the thermal decomposition of D400(EI)20, TGA was performed on Thermogravimetric 
analyzer (Perkin-Elmer TGA 7) under nitrogen atmosphere at 360 oC for carbon-supported 
catalysts. Samples weighing about 4 mg were loaded into a platinum pan and heated from 
room temperature to 360 oC at 10 oC min-1 under flowing nitrogen gas. 
     X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) was performed on Rigaku RINT2100 X-ray 
diffractometer with CuKα radiation (λ = 0.1524 nm) operated at 40 kV and 40 mA. The 
samples for XRD analysis were prepared by placing the catalyst powder onto a glass slide.     
     X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was carried out with VG Scientific 
ESCALAB 210 electron spectrometer using MgKα radiation under a vacuum of 2 × 10-8 
Pa. Narrow scan photoelectron spectra were recorded for the C 1s, O 1s, N 1s, Pt 4f, Ru 3p, 
Co 2p, Sn 3d regions and analyzed by deconvolution to estimate the surface oxidation 
states of the catalysts. 
     The filtrate obtained after filtrating heterogeneous the Pt/C or PtxAy/C mixture was 
analyzed by inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometer (ICP-AES) 
(HEWLETT PACKARD 4500) to confirm that most nanoparticles have been adsorbed on 
the carbon black. 
     
 35
 
 
Figure 2.3. Schematic diagram of the in-house single cell test system for direct methanol 
fuel cells. 
 
 Single cell test was evaluated using a DMFC unit cell with an active area of 4 cm2 
fed with a 1.0 M methanol aqueous solution in the anode at a rate of 10 mL min-1 by a 
peristaltic micropump (MASTER FLEX L/S, Cole-Parmer Instrument) and dry oxygen 
(0.2 MPa pressure) in the cathode at a rate of 20 mL min-1 by a mass flow controller 
(Model GSR, Vogtlin Instrument, Swiss). Figure 3.3 shows the schematic diagram of the 
in-house single cell test system for DMFCs. The single cell fixture was composed of two 
copper end plates, two gaskets and two graphite plates with flow patterns allowing the 
passage of methanol to the anode and oxygen gas to the cathode, as shown in Figure 3.4. 
The polarization curves were IR-compensated and measured versus a reversible hydrogen 
electrode (RHE) which consisted of a small spot of unsupported on the Nafion® membrane, 
approximately 0.5 cm from the edge of the anode catalyst.   
 
 37
Chapter 3.  Results and Discussion  
3.1 Microstructure and Protonic Conductivity of H3PO4-doped Polyethylenimine– 
Siloxane Chemically Covalently Organic–Inorganic Hybrids 
In this study, a series of the chemically covalently polyethylenimine–siloxane 
networks complexed with H3PO4 were prepared via a sol–gel approach, and the structure is 
schematically shown in Scheme 3.1. The first step of the synthesis was to hydrolyze the 
alkoxysilanes in GPTMS. The hydrolyzed silica precursor and PEI formed homogeneous 
solutions in the absence or presence of H3PO4 without any observable phase segregation. 
In this experiment, further condensation of hydroxyl ligands after evaporation of the 
solvent and unreacted water during the drying process resulted in the viscous and 
transparent mixtures. As can be seen in Figure 3.1 for the GPTMS only sample, the 
reactive epoxide on GPTMS is stable under the hydrolytic conditions of the experiments 
for a sample prepared without addition of PEI and H3PO4. Our earlier work16 also reported  
 
Scheme 3.1. Schematic structure of the organic–inorganic hybrids doped with H3PO4. 
 39
 41
 
Figure 3.1 FT-IR spectra recorded of PEI–GPTMS– H3PO4 complexes with various H3PO4 uptakes 
(H3PO4/EI) and without addition of PEI/H3PO4 in the frequency range from 4000 to 400 cm-1. 
With further addition of H3PO4, as evidenced in Figure 3.1, some characteristic 
frequencies of bands change remarkably, indicating that the introduction of H3PO4 into the 
polymer network can change the intermolecular interactions. For the H3PO4-doped samples, 
the bands for -NH mode shift to lower wavenumbers because of the different interactions 
experienced by the -NH group in the partially protonated polymer. The shoulder that 
appears at 1506 cm-1 can be assigned to the symmetric deformation mode of –NH+ groups. 
Moreover, the corresponding asymmetric deformation mode of –NH+ groups is obviously 
observed at 1750 cm-1 for the sample doped with the H3PO4 concentration of H3PO4/EI ٛ  
0.5. Besides, the band at 540 cm-1 is assigned to the vibration mode of P in the phosphate 
group, which indicates the formation of P-O-P and/or Si-O-P bonds in the hybrids. This 
can also be observed in 31P NMR measurements shown below.  
Furthermore, additional information can be acquired in the 1200–800 cm-1 spectral 
region. For the H3PO4-doped samples except for the sample with H3PO4/EI = 0.5, the 
characteristic mode of HPO42- species appearing at 975 and 870 cm-1 is observed. At the 
highest concentration of H3PO4/EI = 0.5, the spectral feature of HPO42- species is replaced 
hybrid host leads to an increase in Tg with increasing H3PO4 concentration up to 
H3PO4/EI = 0.2, indicating a stiffening of the chain due to the N-H…O hydrogen-bonds 
which are progressively established between the protonated polymer and the anions. At 
higher H3PO4 concentrations (H3PO4/ EI > 0.2), Tg reaches a maximum and then decreases. 
This may be attributed to the strong hydrogen-bond interactions occurring between the 
anions and the existence of free H3PO4, giving rise to the less restricted motions of the 
polymer. This can be further supported by 1H and 31P NMR measurements shown below.  
Figure 3.2(b) also displays the value of glass transition zone of Tg varied with the 
H3PO4 uptake. This value, obviously, reaches a maximum at H3PO4 concentration of 
H3PO4/EI = 0.4 and thereafter decreases. The glass transition zone is defined as the 
difference between the onset and endset temperatures of thermal transition process and 
reflects the number of relaxation processes associated with the transition. Protonated EI 
units may be located randomly along the PEI segments. The mutual influences on the 
behaviors of the free and protonated EI units probably undergo relaxation processes with 
different relaxation times, resulting in the broadening of the glass transition. At a relatively 
high H3PO4 concentration, most EI units are complexed and thus the distribution of the 
relaxation times becomes narrow again.  
Shown in Figure 3.3 are the TG curves of H3PO4-doped/undoped hybrids under 
nitrogen atmosphere from room temperature to 800 oC. In this figure, the onsets of polymer 
decomposition are observed at around 200 oC with less respect to the sample composition, 
indicating that these hybrid complexes are stable up to 200 oC. These hybrids are mainly 
degraded at around 350 oC, which corresponds to the decomposition of the organic 
fragments on these hybrids. Furthermore, the final solid char (the residual weight at 800 oC) 
increases with increasing H3PO4 uptake, attributing to the formation of condensate of 
phosphoric acid.  
 43
 
Figure 3.4 1H MAS NMR spectra of PEI–GPTMS–H3PO4 complexes doped with various H3PO4 
oncentrations. 
3.1.4 13C CP/MAS NMR 
Figure 3.5 shows the 13C CP/MAS NMR spectra of the samples doped with various 
amounts of H3PO4. As evidenced in this figure for the H3PO4-free sample, two peaks at 
~10 and 24 ppm are assigned to the methylene carbons in a and b position to the silicon 
atom, respectively. The peak centered at ~53 ppm is due to those methylene carbons on EI 
groups, whereas the peak at 76 ppm is attributed to the carbons adjacent to oxygen atom. In 
Figure 3.5, the notable observation is that upon addition of H3PO4, the line broadening is 
observed with the peak at around 53 ppm. This broadening indicates that the presence of 
H3PO4 causes a more broad distribution of the PEI chain environments and reduces the 
segmental motion of the polymer chains; the latter results from the complexation between 
the H3PO4 and the EI fragments in the hybrid matrix. In addition, the chemical shift at ~53 
 45
the identification of the different types of silicate substructures present is not allowed to 
accomplish due to low peak intensity.  
 
Figure 3.6 29Si MAS NMR spectra of PEI–GPTMS–H3PO4 complexes doped with various H3PO4 
concentrations. 
3.1.6 31P MAS NMR 
The status of phosphoric acid in the hybrid matrix was examined using 31P MAS 
NMR measurements. The proton-decoupled 31P MAS NMR spectra of 
PEI–GPTMS–H3PO4 complexes as a function of H3PO4 concentration, recorded at 25 oC, 
are displayed in Figure 3.7. As seen in Figure 3.7 for the sample doped with H3PO4/EI = 
0.1, an intense resonance peak is observed at around δ = 2.0 ppm (Q0), which is assigned 
to the dissociated HPO42- species on the basis of the earlier study of the relative 
populations of acidic and basic species in linear PEI–H3PO4 systems. As compared to 
H3PO4/EI = 0.1, the displacement in chemical shift can be observed for the samples doped 
 47
 49
3.1.6 Protonic conductivity measurements  
The protonic conductivity of the H3PO4-doped hybrid membranes was evaluated by 
measuring the resistance values with an a.c. impedance technique. Each of complex 
impedance plots is typical for ionic conductors with ion-blocking electrodes, in which an 
arc of circle at higher frequencies that corresponds to the bulk conductivity of the samples, 
followed an inclined linear variation at lower frequencies due to the interface between the 
sample and the blocking electrodes. The intercept of the arc of circle with the real axis 
gives the ohmic resistance from which conductivity can be deduced.  
 
Figure 3.8 Variation of protonic conductivity with temperature for the hydrated PEI–GPTMS–H3PO4 
complexes after equilibrating in dry atmosphere for several hours. 
Figure 3.8 shows the variation of protonic conductivity with temperature for the 
hydrated PEI–GPTMS–H3PO4 complexes after equilibrating in dry atmosphere for several 
hours. For the H3PO4-free sample, the protonic conductivity was too low to be detected 
because of the very low acid concentration. As is evident in Figure 3.8, the Arrhenius plots 
of H3PO4-doped samples for ionic conductivity show an almost linear dependence, 
suggesting a thermally activated process in the whole analyzed temperature range of 0–110 
oC. Besides, the conductivity is also dependent on H3PO4-doping content in the hybrid 
 
Figure 3.9 Protonic conductivity as a function of RH at a constant temperature of 80 oC for the dried 
PEI–GPTMS–H3PO4 complexes. 
 
3.2 Morphology and Composition Characterization of Carbon-Supported catalysts 
3.2.1 Morphology and Optical Properties of As-Prepared Pt and PtRu Nanoparticles  
     In our previous works, the amphiphilic polyethyleniminated polymers were 
employed as protectors for the formation of noble metal nanoparticles with a high 
uniformity.75 In this study, ABA type tri-block copolymer, polyethyleniminated 
poly(oxypropylene)diamine (D400(EI)n), have been used as stabilizers by introducing 
ethylenimine groups (n = 20) in both sides of poly(oxypropylene)diamine to prepare stable 
Pt and Pt-based alloy nanoparticles.  
 The formation of Pt colloids is confirmed by UV-vis spectroscopy. The H2PtCl6 
aqueous solution is pale yellow in color, showing a peak at around 260 nm in the UV-vis 
spectrum as displayed in Figure 3.10. The occurrence of this peak results from the 
absorption due to the ligand-to-metal charge-transfer (LMCT) transition between Pt4+ and 
Cl- ions.76 As the reduction is carried out, Pt nanoparticles are formed simultaneously with 
a change in color from pale yellow to brown in the presence of D400(EI)20. The  
 51
 
Figure 3.11. TEM images and histograms of size distributions of the as-prepared Pt 
nanoparticles: (a) [N]/[Pt] = 5, (b) [N]/[Pt] = 10, (c) [N]/[Pt] = 20, (d) [N]/[Pt] = 30, (e) 
[N]/[Pt] = 40, (f) [N]/[Pt] = 50. 
 
 
 
 53
materials. Figure 3.11 presents the TEM images and corresponding size distribution 
histograms of Pt nanoparticles with different [N]/[Pt] ratios of 5, 10, 20, 30, 40 and 50. The 
average diameters based on the estimate of 300 particles selected from random regions are 
3.6 ± 0.9, 2.9 ± 0.7, 2.7 ± 0.6, 2.5 ± 0.6, 2.5 ± 0.7, 2.4 ± 0.5 nm for the [N]/[Pt] ratios of 5, 
10, 20, 30, 40 and 50, respectively. Nearly spherical Pt nanoparticles with narrow size 
distribution are observed in all samples, except for [N]/[Pt] = 5.  
 Figure 3.12 displays the TEM images along with corresponding size distribution of 
the PtRu alloy nanoparticle with different atomic ratios. The mean diameters are 2.8 ± 0.5, 
2.8 ± 0.5, 2.7 ± 0.7, 2.9 ± 0.7 nm for the Pt80Ru20, Pt70Ru30, Pt50Ru50, and Pt20Ru80 
nanoparticles, respectively. All samples show small particle size with narrow size 
distribution. 
3.2.2 Morphology of As-Prepared PtCo and PtSn Nanoparticles 
Figure 3.13 displays the TEM pictures and relative size distribution histograms of the 
as-prepared PtCo alloy nanoparticles with different compositions. The average diameters 
are 2.8 ± 0.6, 2.9 ± 0.8, 2.8 ± 0.7 and 2.7 ± 0.5 nm for Pt80Co20, Pt70Co30, Pt50Co50 and 
Pt20Co80 nanoparticles, respectively. The small particle sizes with a high uniformity are 
able to be observed for all samples.  
 The TEM images and corresponding size distributions of the as-prepared PtSn alloy 
nanoparticles with different atomic ratios are shown in Figure 3.14. Similarly, small and 
well-dispersed particles are observed. The respective mean diameters are 2.7 ± 0.7, 2.6 ± 
0.6, 2.8 ± 0.7 and 2.7 ± 0.5 nm for the Pt80Sn20, Pt70Sn30, Pt50Sn50 and Pt20Sn80 
nanoparticles. These results indicate that the ABA-type dumbbell-like copolymer possesses 
the ability to prevent the formed nanoparticles from agglomeration. Under the stabilization 
of D400(EI)20, we have successfully prepared well-dispersed Pt, PtRu, PtCo and PtSn 
colloids. This implies that it is possible to apply this novel stabilizer, D400(EI) 20, to  
 55
  
Figure 3.14. TEM images and corresponding size distribution histograms of the 
as-prepared PtSn alloy nanoparticles with different atomic ratios: (a) Pt80Sn20, (b) Pt70Sn30, 
(c) Pt50Sn50, (d) Pt20Sn80. 
 
 57
in the absence of the Pt/C catalyst. Since the decomposition of D400(EI)20 depends on the 
catalyst, this heat treatment can also be utilized in the preparation of the Pt and Pt-based 
catalysts. 
3.2.4 Physicochemical Properties of Pt/C Electrocatalysts 
    Effect of [N]/[Pt] Ratio on Morphology. Figure 3.16 and 3.17 show the TEM 
pictures and corresponding size distribution histograms of the Pt nanoparticles dispersed 
on Vulcan XC-72 with the [N]/[Pt] ratios of 5, 10, 20, 30, 40 and 50 before and after 
heat-treatment at 360 oC under N2 for 10 h. The mean diameters and standard deviations of 
the as-prepared and heat-treated Pt/C catalysts are tabulated in Table 4.1. In the case of the 
Pt/C catalysts with [N]/[Pt] ratios lower than 10 before heat treatment, both agglomerated 
and separated particles are observed. The Pt/C catalyst with an [N]/[Pt] ratio of 5 (Figure 
3.16(a)) shows the largest mean diameter of 11.9 nm among all cases. Some big particles 
are formed with severe aggregation resulting in extremely poor size distribution. With the 
[N]/[Pt] ratio of 10 (Figure 3.16(b)), the mean diameter decreases slightly in comparison 
with that of the [N]/[Pt] ratio of 5, but some aggregation  
With the heat-treated Pt/C catalysts having different [N]/[Pt] ratios (Figure 3.17), both 
average diameters and standard deviations increase compared with those that are not 
heat-treated. At the lower [N]/[Pt] ratio of 5 in Figure 3.17(a), extremely severe 
coalescence of the particles takes place leading to a significant enlargement of the average 
diameter from 11.9 to 39.0 nm. In contrast, the Pt/C catalysts formed with the [N]/[Pt] 
ratios of 20 and 50 followed by heat-treatment do not bring about significant morphologic 
changes (Table 3.1). 
In Figure 3.18, the average diameters are plotted versus the [N]/[Pt] ratios. The 
decreasing rate of particle size as a function of [N]/[Pt] ratio can be obtained from the 
 
 59
 
Figure 3.17. TEM pictures and corresponding size distribution histograms of the 
heat-treated Pt/C catalysts with different [N]/[Pt] ratios: (a) [N]/[Pt] = 5, (b) [N]/[Pt] = 10, 
(c) [N]/[Pt] = 20, (d) [N]/[Pt] = 30, (e) [N]/[Pt] = 40, (f) [N]/[Pt] = 50. 
 
 
 
 61
 The most intriguing question, though, is why the particles remain stable after the 
crucial calcination process? Two possible relations are proposed here. Firstly, the carbon 
surface can satisfactorily bind the nanoparticles through chemical and mechanical 
interlocking effects, which result in an increase in the activation energy required for 
particle agglomeration through surface diffusion.79, 80 Secondly, the gradual decomposition 
of D400(EI)20 existing on the surface of Pt nanoparticles results in the formation of chars 
mainly composed of amorphous carbon which serves as a block to prevent further 
coalescence of these particles. These explanations are supported by altering the length of 
heat-treatment time as described below. 
 Morphologic Dependence on Heat-Treatment Time. The effect of heat-treatment 
time on particle size is introduced by the TEM micrographs of the heat-treated Pt/C 
catalysts ([N]/[Pt] = 20) in Figure 3.19 at 360 oC for 1, 3, 5, 10 and 15 h under N2. It is 
found that the particle size increase with the increase of heat-treatment time. The 
coagulations of Pt particles even at the heat-treatment time of 15 h are not aggravated 
resulting in average diameter of 4.6 nm (Figure 3.19(e)). Especially, the Pt/C catalysts 
heat-treated for 10 and 15 h show similar particle size and size distribution as compared to 
the E-TEK catalyst (3.2 ± 0.8 nm) shown in Figure 3.19(f). It is well-known that the Pt 
particle size greatly affects the activity of Pt catalysts toward methanol electro-oxidation. 
Giordano et al.81 revealed that there was a sharply increase of the electrocatalytic activity 
with smaller particle size for Pt catalysts. Furthermore, Peuckert et al.82 have concluded 
that there is a maximum in the activity for particle size between 3 – 5 nm. Although some 
arguments about suitable range of particle size for the best catalytic activity and efficiency 
exist, it is generally accepted that there is a maximum for optimum efficiency ranging from 
2 to 3 nm.83 Thus, for an [N]/[Pt] ratio of 20, the particles with a size of approximately 4 
nm are suitable as the catalysts for methanol electro-oxidation. For an [N]/[Pt] ratio of 50, 
 63
incomplete decomposition of D400(EI)20, may lead to the formation of smaller particles. 
Since an excess of stabilizer in catalysts is undesirable, the catalyst with the [N]/[Pt] ratio 
of 20 after heat treatment at 360 oC for 10 h should be an optimum one for methanol 
electro-oxidation.  
3.2.5 Physicochemical Properties of PtRu/C Electrocatlysts 
    The morphology and composition of the PtRu/C catalysts with different atomic ratios 
were analyzed by TEM and EDX measurements. The TEM micrographs of the as-prepared 
PtRu/C ([N]/[PtRu] = 20) catalysts with different atomic ratios are shown in Figure 3.20. 
The morphology of the as-prepared PtRu/C catalysts is similar to that of the Pt/C catalysts 
under the same preparative condition (Section 3.2.1). The mean diameters are 2.8 ± 0.5, 2.8 
± 0.5, 2.7 ± 0.7 and 2.9 ± 0.7 nm for the Pt80Ru20/C, Pt70Ru30/C, Pt50Ru50/C and Pt20Ru80/C, 
respectively. 
After heat-treatment of the above PtRu/C catalysts at 360 oC for 10 h under N2, as 
shown in Figure 3.21, the morphology of PtRu alloy nanoparticles seems to be similar to 
that of the Pt/C catalyst with the [N]/[Pt] ratio of 20. The mean diameters and standard 
deviations of the Pt80Ru20, Pt70Ru30, Pt50Ru50, and Pt20Ru80 alloy nanoparticles are 3.4 ± 0.9, 
3.6 ± 1.1, 3.6 ± 0.8, 3.7 ± 0.9 nm, respectively. Nearly spherical particles are obtained with 
uniform size distribution in all the samples. The effects of heat-treatment on the size of 
PtRu alloy nanoparticles are evidently revealed by comparing the mean diameters of the 
as-prepared and heat-treated catalysts as tabulated in Table 3.2. Only slight increase in 
particle size is found after the calcination process, suggesting that D400(EI)20 molecules in 
the PtRu/C catalysts have provided the same functionity as those in the Pt/C catalysts in 
stabilizing the nanoparticles during the heat-treatment.  
 
 
 65
  
 
Figure 3.21. TEM images and corresponding size distribution histograms of the 
heat-treated PtRu/C catalysts with different atomic ratios: (a) Pt80Ru20/C, (b) Pt70Ru30/C, (c) 
Pt50Ru50/C, (d) Pt20Ru80/C. 
 
 67
Table 3.3. Comparison between nominal atomic ratios and EDX results of the 
un-supported PtRu nanoparticles with different compositions.  
Nominal atomic composition 
(Pt/Ru) 
Composition from EDX 
analysisa
(Pt/Ru) 
80:20 78:22 
70:30 67:33 
50:50 51:49 
20:80 21:79 
a The average compositions are calculated from several selected regions. 
 
 The compositions of the PtRu nanoparticles were examined by energy-dispersive 
X-ray (EDX). The typical EDX spectrum of the un-supported Pt50Ru50 nanoparticles is 
shown in Figure 3.22(b). The appearance of Cu peak is due to the copper grid used as the 
TEM support. The atomic ratios of Pt and Ru calculated from the corresponding peaks are 
summarized in Table 3.3. It can be seen that closely matched values to the nominal ones 
are obtained.  
 Two interesting problems which have to be concerned are how much percentage of 
Ru is incorporated into Pt lattice, and are all of Pt and Ru in their metallic type? The 
answers can be obtained by the following characterization of XRD and XPS.   
3.2.6 Physicochemical Properties of PtCo/C Electrocatalysts 
 In this work, ABA-type triblock water-soluble copolymers, D400(EI)20, consisting of two 
hydrophilic blocks, which one interacts strongly with appropriate inorganic materials and 
another mainly solubilization in water, are designed to act as the stabilizer for preparing 
carbon-supported PtCo nanoparticles. The TEM micrographs and corresponding size 
distribution histograms of the as-prepared and heat-treated (360 oC, 10 h) PtCo/C catalysts 
with different compositions are shown in Figure 3.23 and 3.24. All the as-prepared 
 69
  
Figure 3.23. TEM images and corresponding size distribution histograms of the 
as-prepared PtCo/C catalysts with different atomic ratios: (a) Pt80Co20/C, (b) Pt70Co30/C, (c) 
Pt50Co50/C, (d) Pt20Co80/C. 
 71
The compositions of the un-supported PtCo nanoparticles were investigated by EDX 
analysis on several different selected regions of TEM copper grid. The typical EDX spectra 
for the Pt80Co20 and Pt50Co50 nanoparticles are shown in Figure 3.25 as examples. Table 3.5 
gives the EDX results of the PtCo nanoparticles synthesized by altering initial precursor 
concentrations. The average compositions are in good agreement with nominal ratios with 
little deviations. As a result, the uniformity in size and composition of PtCo nanoparticles 
can be achieved simultaneously via this process. The appearance of Cu peaks is due to the 
copper grid as TEM support. 
 
Figure 3.25. Energy dispersive X-ray (EDX) spectra of the un-supported (a) Pt80Co20, and 
(b) Pt50Co50 nanoparticles. 
 
Table 3.5. Comparison between nominal atomic ratios and EDX results of the 
un-supported PtCo nanoparticles with different compositions.  
Nominal atomic composition 
(Pt/Co) 
Composition from EDX 
analysisa
(Pt/Co) 
80:20 81:19 
70:30 64:36 
50:50 53:47 
20:80 22:78 
a The average compositions are calculated from several selected regions. 
 
 73
 
Figure 3.26. TEM images and corresponding size distribution histograms of the 
as-prepared PtSn/C catalysts with different atomic ratios: (a) Pt80Sn20/C, (b) Pt70Sn30/C, (c) 
Pt50Sn50/C, (d) Pt20Sn80/C. 
 75
3.3 X-ray Diffraction (XRD) Study of Carbon-Supported Catalysts 
3.3.1 XRD Patterns of Pt/C Catalysts with Different Heat-Treatment Times 
     XRD is a bulk method which reveals information on the crystal structure, lattice 
constant, and crystal orientation of carbon-supported nanoparticles.85 The powder XRD 
patterns of the Pt/C ([N]/[Pt] = 20) catalysts with different heat-treatment times (t = 1, 3, 5, 
10, 15 h) at 360 oC are displayed in Figure 3.28. The diffraction peaks at 20o – 25o 
observed in all the XRD patterns are due to the (0 0 2) plane of the hexagonal structure of 
Vulcan XC-72 carbon.86a The characteristic diffraction peaks at around 39o, 46o, 67o, 81o 
and 86o are designated to Pt (1 1 1), (2 0 0), (2 2 0), (3 1 1) and (2 2 2) crystalline planes, 
respectively, which establish face-centered cubic (fcc) crystal structures.86b The lattice 
constants (a0) calculated from Eq. 3.1 for all Pt/C catalysts (i.e. 3.921 Å for Pt/C (10 h)) 
are in good agreement with that of 3.923 Å for pure Pt,                     
 
d = a0 / (h2 + l2 + k2)1/2                 (3.1) 
 
where d is the d-spacing, and a0 denominates the lattice constant. 
 The diffraction peaks become sharper and more intense as the heat-treatment time 
increases (the inset in Figure 3.28), suggesting a significant enhancement due to the 
thermal effect on the degree of crystallization. The average particle sizes of Pt 
nanoparticles were estimated by broadening the (2 2 0) peak with the application of 
Scherrer equation80, 87 below: 
L (Å) = 
cos
kλ
β θ                      (3.2) 
where k is a constant (0.9), λ denotes the wavelength of X-ray used (1.5405 Å), β is the 
full-width half-maximum (FWHM) of respective diffraction peak 
 77
Heat-Treatment Time (h)
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16
Pa
rt
ic
le
 S
iz
e 
(n
m
)
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
From XRD
From TEM 
 
Figure 3.29. The dependence of heat-treatment time on particle size for the Pt/C catalysts 
([N]/[Pt] = 20) from the results of TEM and XRD (The data from TEM are obtained from 
Figure 3.19). 
3.3.2 XRD Patterns of PtRu/C Catalysts with Different Atomic Ratios 
     XRD analysis of the PtRu/C catalysts was investigated to examine the structural 
change as platinum was alloyed with ruthenium. The powder XRD patterns obtained from 
the PtRu/C catalysts heat-treated at 360 oC for 10 h with different atomic ratios are shown 
in Figure 3.30. In general, Ru metal would display the (1 0 0), (1 0 1), (1 1 0), (1 0 3) and 
(2 0 1) reflections of the hcp lattice structure, whereas Pt would display the characteristic 
fcc reflection84 described in Section 3.2.5. Apparently, no visible peaks related to the hcp 
phase of Ru can be found from all of these curves but the fcc lattice structure of Pt appears 
instead, in all but Pt20Ru80/C. The (1 1 1) diffraction peaks of all the PtRu/C catalysts (The 
inset in Figure 3.30) shift slightly to higher angle above 39.76o of pure Pt. The shift of the 
diffraction peak toward higher angle can be ascribed to the incorporation of Ru atoms into  
 79
degree of Ru alloyed with Pt (Rual) can be further computed from Eq. 3.4:89, 90
                   Rual = xRu/[(1 –xRu) (Ru/Pt)nom]               (3.4) 
  The percentage of alloyed Ru is only 18 at.% for the Pt50Ru50/C catalysts. These results 
are much lower than the atomic ratios determined by EDX. This discrepancy may be due to 
the coexistence of unalloyed ruthenium or ruthenium oxides in the amorphous form. In 
addition, the average sizes of PtRu nanoparticles were also estimated by Scherrer 
equation87a (Eq. 3.2). The resultant average particle size are 3.37, 3.30 and 3.23 nm for the 
Pt80Ru20/C, Pt70Ru30/C and Pt50Ru50/C catalysts being in good agreement with those from 
TEM observations (Table 3.7). The particle sizes of PtRu nanoparticle with different 
atomic ratios falls in the order of Pt > Pt80Ru20 > Pt70Ru30 > Pt50Ru50, which can be 
explained at a marcoscopical level by the incorporation of smaller Ru atoms into the Pt 
nanoparticles.80   
 
Table 3.7. The XRD results of the heat-treated PtRu/C catalysts with different atomic 
ratios. 
Catalyst d-spacing (Å) a0, lattice constant (Å) xRu dXRD (nm) 
Pt/C 2.266 3.924 --- 3.28 
Pt80Ru20/C 2.256 3.914 0.05 3.37 
Pt70Ru30/C 2.252 3.905 0.10 3.30 
Pt50Ru50/C 2.247 3.897 0.19 3.23 
Pt20Ru80/C --- --- --- --- 
 
3.3.3 XRD Patterns of PtCo/C Catalysts with Different Atomic Ratios 
     To determine the structural characteristics of the catalysts, the X-ray diffraction 
patterns of the heat-treated (360 oC, 10 h) PtCo/C catalysts with different atomic ratios are 
displayed in Figure 3.31. Generally, pure platinum has a face-centered cubic (fcc) lattice 
structure, whereas pure cobalt displays the hexagonal close-packed (hcp) crystal 
 81
where a0 is the lattice constant of pure carbon-supported Pt and k (0.0368 nm) is a constant. 
The resulting values of xCo, as listed in Table 3.8, are 0.02, 0.04 and 0.09 for the Pt80Co20/C, 
Pt70Co30/C and Pt50Co50/C catalysts, respectively. These results have much discrepancy as 
compared with those determined by EDX, which may be ascribed to the coexistence of 
unalloyed cobalt or cobalt  
 
Table 3.8. The XRD results of the heat-treated PtCo/C catalysts with different atomic 
ratios. 
Catalyst d-spacing (Å) a0, lattice constant (Å) xCo dXRD (nm) 
Pt/C 2.266 3.924 --- 3.28 
Pt80Co20/C 2.261 3.916 0.02 3.21 
Pt70Co30/C 2.256 3.908 0.04 3.18 
Pt50Co50/C 2.247 3.892 0.09 3.09 
Pt20Co80/C --- --- --- --- 
 
oxides in the amorphous state. It is possible that the most metal oxide species are small or 
amorphous and thus no visible peaks are detected. The particle sizes are also estimated by 
broadening the (2 2 0) peaks isolated from the carbon-support graphite diffraction peaks94 
via Scherrer equation (Eq. 3.2)22c 
 
                         L (Å) = 
cos
kλ
β θ                     (3.2) 
 
where k is a constant (0.9), λ is the wavelength of X-ray radiation (1.5405 Å), β is the 
width of the diffraction peak at half height (radian) and θ is the angle of the (2 2 0) peak. 
The computed values are 3.21, 3.18 and 3.09 nm for the Pt80Co20, Pt70Co30 and Pt50Co50 
nanoparticles, respectively, which are close to TEM observations in Section 3.2.6. 
 
 83
oxides can be observed even after the heat-treatment at an elevated temperature and the 
diffraction peaks shift slightly toward lower angle with respect to the corresponding peaks 
in pure Pt (the inset in Figure 3.32) leading to the increase in lattice constant as compared 
with bulk Pt (3.924 Å),95 demonstrating that some extent of alloying takes place between 
Pt and Sn.96   
 
Table 3.9. The XRD results of the heat-treated PtSn/C catalysts with different atomic 
ratios. 
Catalyst d-spacing (Å) a0, lattice constant (Å) dXRD (nm) 
Pt/C 2.266 3.924 3.28 
Pt80Sn20/C 2.269 3.930 3.42 
Pt70Sn30/C 2.271 3.933 3.45 
Pt50Sn50/C 2.274 3.939 3.53 
Pt20Sn80/C --- --- --- 
Ru, Co, Sn Content (atom %)
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80
L
at
tic
e 
C
on
st
an
t (
A
)
3.88
3.89
3.90
3.91
3.92
3.93
3.94
3.95
PtRu 
PtCo 
PtSn 
 
Figure 3.33. Lattice constants of the PtRu, PtCo and PtSn alloys as a function of the 
compositions. 
 85
  
C1s
Binding Energy (eV)
274276278280282284286288290292294
In
te
ns
ity
 (a
.u
.)
(a) O 1s
Binding Energy (eV)
522524526528530532534536538540542
In
te
ns
ity
 (a
.u
.)
(b)
 
Pt 4f
(Pt/C)
Binding Energy (eV)
62646668707274767880828486
In
te
ns
ity
(a
.u
.)
4f7/24f5/2
(c) Pt 4f
(PtRu/C)
Binfing Energy (eV)
62646668707274767880828486
In
te
ns
ity
 (a
.u
.)
(d)
4f7/2
4f5/2
  
Ru3p3/2
Binding Energy (eV)
448450452454456458460462464466468470472474476478
In
te
ns
ity
(a
.u
.)
(e)
 
Figure 3.34. X-ray photoelectron spectra of the heat-treated Pt50Ru50/C catalyst in the C 1s, 
O 1s, Pt 4f and Ru 3p regions and the heat-treated Pt/C catalyst in the Pt 4f region (dotted 
line: raw data, dash line: fit data, solid line: deconvoluted data). 
 
 87
oxygen.101, 103a When compared to bulk metal, the Pt0 peaks in Figure 3.34(c) from 70.8 eV 
for the bulk metal to higher binding energy may be attributed to small cluster size or 
metal-support interaction.101b, 103a, 105 Similarly, the Pt 4f spectrum for the heat-treated 
Pt50Ru50/C catalyst shown in Figure 3.34(d) is also deconvoluted into two components, 
which are assigned to Pt0 (71.9 and 75 .4 eV) and Pt (II) species (72.8 and 78.2 eV), 
respectively. The binding energy of the components along with the relative intensity for 
these samples is summarized in Table 3.10. The percentage of each component is obtained 
from the relative intensity of theses peaks. From Table 3.10, the percentages of Pt0 are 
given 73.83 % in the Pt/C catalyst and 77.01 % in the Pt50Ru50/C catalyst, respectively; 
these figures are close to that of the E-TEK Pt/C catalyst, namely 73.64 %.106 The results 
indicate that the metallic Pt0 is the predominant species in both the Pt/C and Pt50Ru50/C 
catalysts. Catalysts with surface platinum of metallic state, rather than Pt (II) species, 
provide active sites for methanol electro-oxidation. Therefore, a significant amount of 
metallic Pt0 is required in Pt-based catalysts for the high electrocatalytic activity necessary 
for methanol electro-oxidation. 
 The Ru 3p spectrum was investigated instead of Ru 3d line. This was because of the 
large overlap with the C 1s signal from the carbon support at about 284.3 eV which 
complicated the determination of the Ru oxidation state.97, 98 The Ru 3p spectrum is 
deconvoluted into three components with respective binding energy of 461.13, 464.33 and 
467.35 eV, as shown in Figure 3.34(e). The three components can be assigned to Ru0 metal 
at 461.13 eV, Ru (IV) in anhydrous RuO2 at 464.33 eV, and the higher oxidation state of Ru 
(VI) in RuO3 at 467.35 eV.107 Since the RuO3 species is thermodynamically unstable, the 
formation of the hydrous amorphous ruthenium oxides (RuOxHy or RuO2·x H2O) is favored 
according to the study of Rolison et al.31 From the relative intensity given in Table 4.10, it 
is found that Ru oxides such as Ru(IV) or Ru(VI) species (87 %) are the dominant states in 
 89
metallic Pt0 and the second pair at 72.66 and 77.29 eV can be assigned to Pt (II) species 
such as PtO and Pt(OH)2.103, 104 The existence of Pt (II) species can be well-explained 
according to the fact that some of the fine particles can always undergo easier oxidation 
during the preparative process.101, 103a As shown in Table 3.11, metallic Pt0 (89.35 %) is the 
predominant phase rather than Pt oxides (10.65 %), indicating that the PtCo catalysts can 
provide sufficient sites for methanol oxidation and thus show superior electrocatalytic 
performance. The relatively lower amount of Pt oxides in the PtCo/C catalyst (10.65 %) 
than in the Pt/C catalyst (26.17 %) is ascribed to the oxide-cleaning action of the Co metal 
Binding Energy (eV)
276278280282284286288290292294
In
te
ns
ity
 (a
.u
.)
C 1s(a)
Binding Energy (eV)
522524526528530532534536538540542544
In
te
ns
ity
 (a
.u
.)
O 1s(b)
 
Binding Energy (eV)
62646668707274767880828486
In
te
ns
ity
 (a
.u
.)
Pt 4f
4f7/24f5/2
(c)
Binding Energy (eV)
768770772774776778780782784786788790792
In
te
ns
ity
 (a
.u
.)
Co 2p3/2(d)
 
 
Figure 4.26. X-ray photoelectron spectra of the heat-treated Pt50Co50/C catalyst in the C 1s, 
O 1s, Pt 4f and Co 2p regions (dotted line: raw data, dash line: fit data, solid line: 
deconvoluted data).   
 
 91
3.4.3 Surface Properties of PtSn/C Catalyst 
 The XPS spectra of the heat-treated Pt70Sn30 catalyst (360 oC, 10 h) are given in 
Figure 3.36. The binding energies of all species along with relative intensity are tabulated 
in Table 3.12. Identically, the Pt 4f spectrum appears to be composed of two components 
attributed to metallic Pt0 (71.02 and 74.08 eV)102 and Pt (II) species (72.00 and 76.21 
eV)103 as shown in Figure 3.36(c). On the other hand, metallic Pt0 is the predominant phase 
as compared to Pt (II) species in this case. Especially, a definite negative shift is found for 
the binding energies of all these species in comparison with those observed in Pt/C and 
PtRu/C catalysts (Table 3.12). As reported by Shukla et al.,30 this effect is attributed to an  
Binding Energy (eV)
270272274276278280282284286288290292294
In
te
ns
ity
 (a
.u
.)
C 1s(a)
Binding Energy (eV)
518520522524526528530532534536538540542544546
In
te
ns
ity
 (a
.u
.)
O 1s(b)
 
Binding Energy (eV)
62646668707274767880828486
In
te
ns
ity
 (a
.u
.)
Pt 4f
4f7/2
4f5/2
(c)
Binding Energy  (eV)
476478480482484486488490492494496498500502
In
te
ns
ity
 (a
.u
.)
Sn 3d(d)
  
Figure 3.36. X-ray photoelectron spectra of the heat-treated Pt70Sn30/C catalyst in the C 1s, 
O 1s, Pt 4f and Sn 3d regions (dotted line: raw data, dash line: fit data, solid line: 
deconvoluted data).   
 
 93
Binding Energy (eV)
01002003004005006007008009001000
In
te
ns
ity
 (a
.u
.)
Pt 4f
C 1s
N 1s
O 1s
(a)
 
Binding Energy(eV)
392394396398400402404406
In
te
ns
ity
(a
.u
.)
N 1s(b)
 
Figure 3.37. (a) The survey scan of XPS of the as-prepared Pt/C catalyst ([N]/[Pt] = 20). (b) 
XPS spectra of the N 1s region for the as-prepared Pt/C catalysts ([N]/[Pt] = 20). 
 
study the removal of D400(EI)20during the calcination process. Figure 3.37(a) shows the 
survey scan of the XPS spectrum for the as-prepared Pt/C ([N]/[Pt] = 20) catalyst. An 
obvious N 1s signal can be observed as well as the strong lines of C 1s, O 1s and Pt 4f. The 
regional N 1s spectrum shown in Figure 3.37(b) is deconvoluted into three components at 
397.5, 399.1 and 401.1 eV. The first peak at 397.5 eV can be assigned to a nitride 
demonstrating the presence of a metal-nitrogen bond.117 The second one at 399.1 eV can be 
attributed to the free or bonded amine groups, as reported by Sharma et al. 118 The third one 
 95
3.5 Electrochemical Characterization 
3.5.1 Electrochemical Behavior of Pt/C Catalysts with Different Heat-Treatment 
Times  
 Estimation of Electrochemical Active Surface Areas. Cyclic voltammetry (CV) 
was employed to obtain the electrochemical active surface (EAS) areas of the Pt/C 
catalysts with different heat-treatment times. Figure 3.39 depicts the cyclic 
voltammograms (CVs) of the as-prepared and heat-treated Pt/C catalysts (-0.3 – 1.3 V, 10 
mVs-1) in 0.5 M H2SO4 solution. The coulombic charge for hydrogen desorption (QH) is 
used to calculate the active platinum surface area of the electrodes obtained by subtracting 
the charge from the double-layer region. The value of QH is defined as the mean of the 
amounts of charge exchanged during the electro-adsorption (Q') and desorption (Q˝) of H2 
on the Pt sites,120 assuming that the smooth Pt electrode gives the hydrogen adsorption 
charge of 0.21 mC cm-2 (obtained from surface density of 1.3 × 1015 atoms cm-2 for 
polycrystalline Pt electrodes),103a, 107, 120  
           AEL (m2/g catalyst) = QH / [Pt] × 0.21 = SEL / [Pt]         (3.7) 
where [Pt] represents the platinum loading (mg cm-2) in the electrode. The computed 
results obtained for different heat-treatment times are listed in Table 3.13. The as-prepared 
material displays a featureless voltammogram with very small current density in the 
hydrogen adsorption – desorption region indicating the covered D400(EI)20 stabilizing 
shell completely blocks the active sites on Pt nanoparticles. When heat-treatment at 360 oC 
under N2 is applied on the Pt/C catalysts for 1 h, a slightly pronounced feature on the CV 
trace is observed due to the incomplete decomposition of D400(EI)20 from the catalyst 
surface. By contrast, well-defined features appear with heat-treatment times higher than 3 h, 
indicating a partial or complete elimination of D400(EI)20 molecules from the Pt surface. It 
is clear that with the increase in the heat-treatment time, more obvious hydrogen  
 97
catalysts with different heat-treatment times.  
Catalyst QHa (mC/cm2) SELb (cm2) AELc (m2/g cat.) 
Pt/C ( 1 h ) 23.5 111.9 2.2 
Pt/C ( 3 h ) 43.4 206.7 4.1 
Pt/C ( 5 h ) 71.9 342.4 6.8 
Pt/C ( 10 h ) 108.7 517.6 10.4 
Pt/C ( 15 h ) 119.2 567.6 11.3 
E-TEK (Pt catalysts) 115.3 549.1 10.9 
a QH: the average amount of charge exchanged during the electro-adsorption and 
-desorption of hydrogen on Pt sites. 
b SEL: real surface area obtained electrochemically. 
c AEL: real surface area obtained electrochemically per gram of catalyst. 
 
representative cyclic voltammograms (CVs) of the as-prepared and heat-treated Pt/C 
catalysts in 0.5 M H2SO4 containing 1 M CH3OH at room temperature. The measurements 
are performed in the potential range of -0.2 to 1.0 V at a scan rate of 20 mVs-1. The shape 
and peak potentials of the CV curves are accordant with other works.121 For the 
as-prepared Pt/C catalyst (the inset of Figure 3.40), a less pronounced feature with very 
small current density appears both in the anodic and cathodic sweeps. All heat-treated Pt/C 
catalysts show much better activities than those that are not heat-treated. The above 
interpretations concerning the positive effects and negative drawbacks in application of 
D400(EI)20 are then certified from this enhancement in activity of methanol 
electro-oxidation. The peaks at about 0.68 V in the forward scan are attributed to the 
methanol electro-oxidation. The peak current density in the forward scan increases with 
the heat-treatment time (Figure 3.40(b)), indicating the improvement of catalytic activity 
follows the extent of decomposition of D400(EI)20 during heat-treatment. The anodic 
peaks in the reverse scan at around 0.44 V are generally accepted to be a consequence of 
the removal of incompletely oxidized carbonaceous species formed in the forward  
 99
scan.111a, 121, 122 These carbonaceous species are mostly in the form of linearly bonded 
Pt=C=O, which causes the poisoning of Pt catalysts. 
The characteristic CV parameters of the different electrodes including the onset 
potential, peak potential (Epa, Epc), peak current density (If, Ib) and If / Ib ratio are tabulated 
in Table 3.14. As reported by Liu et al.,80 the ratio of the forward peak current density (If) 
to the reverse peak current density (Ib), If / Ib, can be applied to investigate the tolerance of  
 
Table 3.14. CV results of the Pt/C catalysts with different heat-treatment times (1, 3, 5, 10 
and 15 h). 
Catalyst Forward anodic peak Reverse anodic peak   
 Onset potential 
(V) 
Epa 
(V) 
If  
(A/cm2) 
Epc 
(V) 
Ib  
(A/cm2) 
 If/Ib
Pt/C (1 h) 0.49 0.70 0.0505 0.49 0.0495  1.02
Pt/C (3 h) 0.39 0.70 0.1145 0.47 0.1150  0.99
Pt/C (5 h) 0.32 0.69 0.1640 0.48 0.1577  1.04
Pt/C (10 h) 0.27 0.69 0.2150 0.48 0.2270  0.95
Pt/C (15 h) 0.27 0.69 0.2664 0.48 0.2672  0.98
catalysts to the intermediate carbonaceous species accumulated on surface. A low If / Ib 
ratio represents poor activity toward methanol electro-oxidation during the forward scan 
leading to a large amount of accumulation of carbonaceous residues on catalyst surface. In 
contrast, a high If / Ib value is indicative of improved CO tolerance.79, 80, 123 In Table 3.14, 
the If / Ib ratios are quite uniform and very low and the maximum one is only 1.04 for the 
Pt/C (5 h). This indicates that large quantities of carbonaceous intermediates are not able to 
be further oxidized to carbon dioxide formed during the forward scan, thereby resulting in 
the accumulation on the Pt surface. Accordingly, the heat-treatment enhances the activity 
for methanol electro-oxidation; however, the CO tolerance of these catalysts is not 
improved. By comparing the onset potentials (the potential where I ≥ 0.02 A/cm2) of the 
heat-treated Pt/C catalysts for methanol electro-oxidation in Table 3.14, a trend of negative 
 101
would begin to accumulate if the kinetics of the removal reaction can not keep pace with 
that of methanol oxidation.111a Before the experiment, the working electrodes are pretreated 
with the method proposed by Liu et al.80 to remove the adsorbed impurities. A sharp drop 
of initial current density is observed in the first 200 s followed by a slower decay. The 
initial drop of current density can be ascribed to the autopoisoning of Pt surface in the 
alcohol solution, as reported by Jiang et al.54 As shown in Figure 3.41, the current density 
decays with time and reaches an apparent steady-state within 30 min at the fixed potential. 
The corresponding final current densities are 1.1 mA / cm2 for Pt/C (1 h), 1.4 mA / cm2 for 
Pt/C (3 h), 9.2 mA / cm2 for Pt/C (5 h), 10.8 mA / cm2 for Pt/C (10 h), 19.2 mA / cm2 for 
Pt/C (15 h) and 20.0 mA / cm2 for E-TEK catalyst, respectively. Remarkably, the Pt/C(10 h) 
and Pt/C (15 h) catalysts show similar electrocatalytic performance to the commercially 
available E-TEK catalyst after long-term operation. These results consist very well with the 
transient CV results and confirm the effects of heat-treatment time on the electrocatalytic 
activity toward methanol electro-oxidation for the Pt catalysts. 
 To gain further insight into the performance of catalysts toward methanol 
electro-oxidation, steady-state current densities of the Pt/C catalysts with different 
heat-treatment times and E-TEK catalyst in a wide potential range (0.40 – 0.75 V) obtained 
by potential-controlled experiments are given in Figure 3.42. The steady-state current 
density is recorded for 1800 s after imposing the potential step. In good agreement with the 
transient CV results (Section 3.5.1), the Pt/C catalysts provide better activity with the 
increase in the heat-treatment times confirming the activation of the catalysts by means of 
the calcination process. Especially, the Pt/C catalysts with the heat-treatment times of 10 
and 15 h show equivalent electrocatalytic performance for methanol electro-oxidation as 
compared to the E-TEK catalyst, which is consistent with CV results about the EAS areas 
described in Section 3.5.1.  
 103
E ( V vs Ag / AgCl )
-0.2 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2
I (
 A
 / 
cm
2  )
-0.06
-0.04
-0.02
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
Pt / C ( N / Pt = 5 )
Pt / C ( N / Pt = 10 )
Pt / C ( N / Pt = 20 )
Pt / C ( N / Pt = 50 )
 
Figure 3.43. Cyclic voltammograms of the heat-treated Pt/C catalysts with different 
[N]/[Pt] ratios ([N]/[Pt] = 5, 10, 20 and 50) in 0.5 M H2SO4 solution at 10 mVs-1. 
surface of Pt nanoparticles dramatically rises with increasing the [N]/[Pt] ratio. 
The computed values of EAS areas for Pt/C catalysts with different [N]/[Pt] molar 
ratios are summarized in Table 3.15. It should be noted that a maximum of the EAS area 
(10.4 m2 / g cat.) is obtained at the [N]/[Pt] ratio of 20. Since the difference in particle size 
between the Pt/C catalysts with the [N]/[Pt] ratios of 20 and 50 (3.4 and 3.0 nm, 
respectively in Table 3.1) is small enough to be neglected, the decay at an [N]/[Pt] ratio of 
50 (from 10.4 to 8.9 m2 / g cat.) implies the presence of residual D400(EI)20 in the 
aftermath of incomplete decomposition during the calcination condition. In summary, two 
points have been grasped from above results. Firstly, the increasing surface area below the 
[N]/[Pt] ratio of 20 should be ascribed to the decreasing particle size and narrow size 
distribution of Pt nanoparticles. Secondly, excess D400(EI)20 beyond an [N]/[Pt] ratio of 20 
interferes with the calcination process.   
 
 105
If
Ib
E ( V vs Ag / AgCl )
-0.4 -0.2 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2
I (
 A
 / 
cm
2  )
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
Pt / C ( [N] / [Pt] = 5 )
Pt / C ( [N] / [Pt] = 10 )
Pt / C ( [N] / [Pt] = 20 )
Pt / C ( [N] / [Pt] = 50 )
(a)
 
0 10 20 30 40 50
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.10
0.12
0.14
0.16
0.18
0.20
0.22
0.24
 Peak Current Density (Epa)
 Onset Potential (V vs. Ag/AgCl)
[N] / [Pt] Ratio 
Pe
ak
 C
ur
re
nt
 D
en
si
ty
 (A
/c
m
2 )
0.26
0.28
0.30
0.32
0.34
0.36
0.38
0.40
0.42
0.44
0.46
0.48
O
nset Potential (V
 vs. A
g/A
gC
l)
(b)
 
Figure3.44. (a) Cyclic voltammograms of the heat-treated Pt/C catalysts with different 
[N]/[Pt] ratios ([N]/[Pt] = 5, 10, 20 and 50) in 0.5 M H2SO4/1 M CH3OH solution at 20 
mVs-1. (b) The peak current density (If) and onset potential as a function of [N]/[Pt] ratio. 
 107
E ( V vs Ag / AgCl )
-0.4 -0.2 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2
I (
 A
 / 
cm
2  )
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
If
Ib
(a)
 
0 20 40 60 80
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
 Onset Potential (V vs. Ag/AgCl)
 If / Ib Ratio 
Ru Content (molar %)
O
ns
et
 P
ot
en
tia
l (
vs
 A
g/
A
gC
l)
(b)
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
If  / Ib R
atio
 
Figure 3.45. (a) Cyclic voltammograms of the heat-treated PtRu/C catalysts with different 
atomic ratios (Pt80Ru20/C, Pt70Ru30/C, Pt50Ru50/C and Pt20Ru80/C) in 0.5 M H2SO4/1 M 
CH3OH solution at 20 mVs-1. (b) The onset potential and If / Ib ratio as a function of the Ru 
content. 
 109
Pt/C catalyst to 1.94 for the Pt50Ru50/C one can be observed. This demonstrates that the 
addition of ruthenium induces further oxidation of the carbonaceous species, i.e. the CO 
tolerance of these catalysts is improved. The Pt50Ru50/C catalyst with a maximum If / Ib 
ratio of 1.95 displays the best CO tolerance among all the catalysts examined. 
 
Table 3.17. CV results of the heat-treated PtRu/C catalysts with different atomic ratios 
(Pt80Ru20/C, Pt70Ru30/C, Pt50Ru50/C and Pt20Ru80/C). 
Catalyst Forward anodic peak Reverse anodic peak   
 Onset potential 
(V) 
Epa 
(V) 
If  
(A/cm2) 
Epc 
(V) 
Ib 
(A/cm2) 
 If/Ib
Pt/C 0.27 0.68 0.2150 0.48 0.2270  0.95
Pt80Ru20/C 0.17 0.65 0.1523 0.42 0.1273  1.19
Pt70Ru30/C 0.18 0.64 0.1322 0.43 0.1054  1.25
Pt50Ru50/C 0.07 0.61 0.1970 0.41 0.1008  1.95
Pt20Ru80/C 0.02 ---a --- --- ---  --- 
a Not applicable 
 
     It has been known that ruthenium is an oxophilic metal that activated water 
molecules at a lower potential and hence accelerates the further oxidation of surface 
adsorbed CO to CO2. The effects of ruthenium are able to be rationalized by the 
bi-functional mechanism126 of the Pt and Ru sites for methanol electro-oxidation as 
mentioned in the aforesaid words and Section 3.4.1. The drawback, i.e. the decrease in the 
number of Pt sites in case of the Pt50Ru50/C catalyst is compensated by the dominant 
bi-functional effect, resulting in a rise in forward peak current densities. One should ask 
why the reverse peak current densities do not rise in the same way? In addition to the 
electro-oxidation of methanol, explicable by the bi-functional mechanism is the further 
oxidation of carbonaceous intermediates occurring in the forward scan, which results in the 
peak current density in the reverse scan becoming comparatively low. This point also 
 111
Chronoamperometry (CA) Test for PtRu/C Catalysts. Figure 3.46 shows the 
chronoamperometric (CA) curves of methanol electro-oxidation for the heat-treated 
PtRu/C catalysts with different compositions at 0.4 V (vs. Ag/AgCl) in 0.5 M H2SO4/1 M 
CH3OH solution. The changes in polarization current with time are recorded for 4000 s. All 
the curves are characterized by a rapid current decay in the beginning followed by the 
formation of steady-state current. For the Pt/C catalyst, the current density shows a slight 
but continuous decay after 1 h. This may be ascribed to the accumulation of carbonaceous 
intermediates on the platinum surface. Both the Pt80Ru20/C and Pt70Ru30/C catalysts 
eventually show a similar steady-state current, which is lower than that of the Pt/C catalyst. 
Among all catalysts examined, the Pt50Ru50/C catalysts maintained the highest current 
density over 4000 s demonstrating the best electrocatalytic performance and stability. 
Time ( sec )
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000
N
om
al
iz
ed
 C
ur
re
nt
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
( a ) Pt50Ru50 / C
( b ) Pt / C
 
 
Figure 3.47. Comparison of the heat-treated Pt/C and Pt50Ru50/C catalysts for methanol 
electro-oxidation in 0.5 M H2SO4/1 M CH3OH at 0.4 V (vs. Ag/AgCl). 
 113
 E ( V vs Ag/AgCl )
-0.4 -0.2 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2
I (
 A
 / 
cm
2  )
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
Pt/C
Pt80Co20 / C
Pt70Co30 / C
Pt50Co50 / C
Pt20Co80 / C
If
Ib
(a)
 
0 20 40 60 80
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
 Onset Potential (V vs. Ag/AgCl)
 If / Ib Ratio 
Co Content (molar %)
O
ns
et
 P
ot
en
tia
l (
V
 v
s. 
A
g/
A
gC
l)
(b)
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
If  / Ib R
atio
 
Figure 3.48. (a) Cyclic voltammograms of the heat-treated PtCo/C catalysts with different 
atomic ratios (Pt80Co20/C, Pt70Co30/C, Pt50Co50/C and Pt20Co80/C) in 0.5 M H2SO4/1M 
CH3OH solution at 20 mVs-1 at room temperature. (b) The onset potential and If / Ib ratio as 
a function of the Co content. 
 115
potentials than pure Pt catalyst (0.27 V). The onset potentials of Pt80Co20/C and Pt50Co50/C 
catalysts are similar (0.18 and 0.22 V, respectively). Especially, the onset potential lowers 
dramatically to 0.13 V for the Pt70Co30/C catalyst (Figure 3.48(b)).   
 Another method to evaluate the catalyst performance is to compare the ratio of peak 
current densities associated with the anodic peaks in the forward (If) and reverse scans (Ib), 
which has been applied to account for the CO tolerance of the catalysts.79, 80, 123 Higher If / 
Ib ratio represents only a small amount of carbonaceous intermediates accumulate on the 
catalyst surface indicating the more facile oxidation of methanol to carbon dioxide during 
the forward scan. As displayed in Table 3.18, all the PtCo/C catalysts exhibit higher If / Ib 
ratio than Pt-only catalyst demonstrating the promotion effect of Co addition based on the 
bi-functional mechanism (Figure 3.48(b)). Oxophilic Co is not active for methanol 
decomposition but for further oxidation of CO. The most tolerant catalyst for CO 
poisoning is Pt70Co30/C which shows the highest If / Ib ratio of 1.78. According to the 
lowest onset potential (0.13 V) and highest If / Ib ratio (1.78), the heat-treated Pt70Co30/C 
catalyst shows the best electrocatalytic performance among all cases.  
 In addition, based on Pourbaix diagram42 which shows the thermodynamic stability 
of species as a function of potential and pH, the corrosion of cobalt is thermodynamically 
favored in acidic condition. The activity enhancement through the addition of cobalt may 
be hindered by cobalt leaching during a long-term operation in acidic environment if such 
a reaction is not kinetically inhibited. 
Chronoamperometry (CA) Measurement for PtCo/C Catalyst.  The 
chronoamperograms (CA) of the heat-treated Pt/C and PtCo/C catalysts fixed at 0.4 V for 
4000 s are displayed in Figure 3.49. All the profiles are characterized by a rapid current 
decay initially followed by the formation of a steady-state current. As the potential fixed at 
0.4 V, methanol is continuously oxidized on the catalyst surface and intermediate 
 117
Time ( sec )
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000
N
om
al
iz
ed
 C
ur
re
nt
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
( a ) Pt70Co30 / C
( b ) Pt / C
 
Figure 3.50. Normalized polarization current – time plot of the heat-treated (a) Pt70Co30/C 
and (b) Pt/C catalysts in an electrolyte containing 1 M CH3OH and 0.5 M H2SO4 at a fixed 
potential of 0.4 V (vs. Ag/AgCl). 
 
for the Pt70Co30/C catalyst. A more gradual decay of current density relative to pure Pt 
catalyst is obtained for the Pt70Co30/C catalyst suggesting an improved CO resistance for 
the addition of cobalt according to the bi-functional mechanism. 
 
 
 119
from the ultraviolet to 700 nm is observed, indicating the formation of Pt and PtRu alloy 
nanoparticles. The average size of the Pt nanoparticles decreases with increasing the 
[N]/[Pt] ratios, reaching a plateau at an [N]/[Pt] ratio of 20. After calcination, extremely 
serious aggregation of the particles occurs at an [N]/[Pt] ratio of 5 resulting in the drastic 
enlargement of the average diameter from 10.9 to 39.0 nm. Especially for the [N]/[Pt] ratio 
of 20, the growth of the particle size is restricted even for a heat-treatment time of 10 h 
(from 2.7 to 3.6 nm) indicating an optimum value of [N]/[Pt] ratio for the heat-treatment 
process. For the PtRu/C and PtCo/C catalysts, the compositions determined by EDX are in 
good agreement with the original precursor concentration.   
 All Pt and Pt-based catalysts, except for Pt20Ru80 and Pt20Co80, are characterized by 
fcc phase in XRD analysis, and the nanocrystals’ dimensions calculated from diffraction 
peak widths are consistent with the TEM results. After heat treatment, the catalysts have 
primary improvements in their crystallinity rather than the growth of particle size. The 
shifts in 2θ corresponds to the decreases in lattice constant indicating the incorporation of 
Ru and Co atoms into the Pt fcc structures whereas the opposite effect is observed in the 
PtSn system. 
 A significant amount of Pt in the metallic state is observed by XPS measurements 
both in the Pt and Pt-based catalysts (73.83 % for Pt/C, 77.01 % for PtRu/C, 89.35 % for 
PtCo/C and 82.35 % for PtSn/C, respectively), these values being close to that of the 
commercial E-TEK catalyst (73.64 %). Ruthenium oxides such as Ru(IV) or Ru(VI) are 
the predominant phase (87 %) in the PtRu/C catalyst rather than metallic ruthenium (13 %). 
In the case of the PtCo/C catalysts, the content of Co oxides (70.77 %) is substantially 
higher in relation to Co metal (29.23 %). As for the PtSn/C catalysts, a substantial amount 
of Sn (IV) species (61.97 %) exist as compared with metallic Sn0 (38.03 %). The spectrum 
of N 1s region has proved the presence of D400(EI)20 and the subsequent removal from the 
 121
計畫成果自評 
本計畫第一年擬使用成本低廉之具螯合能力超分枝型高分子-聚乙烯亞胺
(PEI)，與價格便宜具官能反應基 organo(alkoxy)silanes之工業原料進行 sol-gel反應工
業原料，進一步導入 proton carrier，藉此形成有機-無機混成型固態質子傳導高分子電
解質。第二、三年製備具螯合能力啞鈴型擬樹枝狀高分子扮演金屬離子螯合劑與碳黑
分散劑角色，利用其結構可與金屬離子及碳黑形成穩定的離子錯化物與 dispersion；
接著利用還原劑將金屬離子還原，此時亦可藉著高分子樹枝狀結構提供立體障礙，防
止金屬粒子凝聚，而製備出貴重金屬顆粒以奈米微粒的形式均勻分散在高表面積的碳
黑溶液，以製備成燃料電池觸媒層。本計畫分三年進行共完成： 
(1) 一系列PEI/(polysiloxane network)混成型高分子，進一步摻合磷酸以製備質子
傳導層電解質。鑑定其結構與熱性質，並針對溫度、water-uptake、相對濕度及proton 
carrier含量等重要因素探討網狀高分子質子傳導膜之質子傳導度與物性，實驗得知高
分子之交聯網狀結構決定了磷酸分子的diffusion及質子的傳遞，並以31P solid-state 
NMR探討H+離子與磷酸分子在高分子matrix之傳導途徑。此研究結果已發表至國際期
刊J. Polym. Sci. Part-B Pol. Phys., 2006, 44, 2135。本研究之質子傳導膜在 110oC之乾燥
環境中，傳導度可達 10-2 S/cm，極具應用價值。 
(2) 利用poly(oxypropylenediamine)之兩末端胺基進行polyethylenimination，成功
合成出含不同程度ethylenimine (EI)基團以及不同POP鏈長之ABA triblock擬樹枝狀高
分子，製備Pt奈米粒子能有效穩定並使粒子均勻分布，利用負染色試片TEM觀察結果
證實，Pt粒子乃嵌於PPO-EI分子micelle外側的PEI鏈段中。以上結果已發表於J. Colloid 
Interface Sci., 2006, 294, 371。 
(3) 利用兩末端為胺基之不同分子量的 poly(oxypropylenediamine)分子與被
sodium citrate穩定的 Au奈米粒子進行 ligand exchange，使 POP chain在 Au粒子表面
進行分子自組裝，造成 Au粒子的規則排列，研究發現 POP-diamine分子的鏈長增加
會使 Au粒子之間的距離變大，使 Au表面電漿共振吸收峰產生位移，Au粒子之間的
van der Walls interaction變小，使排列型態變化。不同的 POP鏈段的排列方式，可造
 123
References and Notes 
(1) James, L.; Andrew D. Fuel Cell Explained, John Weiley, England, 2003. 
(2) Chan, K. Y.; Ding, J.; Ren, J.; Cheng, S.; Tsang, K. Y. J. Mater. Chem. 2004, 14, 505. 
(3) (a) Hamnett, A. Catal. Today 1997, 38, 445. (b) Eikerling, M.; Loselevich, A. S.; 
Kornyshev Fuel Cells 2004, 4, 131. (c) Marković N. M.; Schmidt, T. J.; Stamenković, 
V.; Ross, P. N. Fuel Cells 2001, 1, 105. 
(4) (a) Carrette, L.; Friedrich, K. A.; Stimming, U. Chem. Phys. Chem. 2000, 1, 162. (b) 
Lamy, C.; Lima, A.; LeRhun, V.; Delime, F.; Coutanceau, C.; Léger, J. M. J. Power 
Sources 2002, 105, 283. 
(5) (a) Eichstadt, A. E.; Ward, T. C.; Bagwell, M. D.; Farr, I. V.; Dunson, D. L.; McGraph, 
J. E. Macromolecules 2002, 35, 7561. (b) Yang, Y.; Shi, Z.; Holdcroft, S. 
Macromolecules 2004, 37, 1678. (c) Wang, L.; Meng, Y. Z.; Wang, S. J.; Shang, X. Y.; 
Li, L.; Hay, A. S. Macromolecules 2004, 37, 3151. (d) Miyatake, K.; Chikashige, Y.; 
Watanabe, M. Macromolecules 2003, 36, 9691. 
(6) Grove, W. R., On Gaseous Voltaic Battery, Philos. Mag. 1842, 21(3), 417. 
(7) Bönnemann, H.; Richards, R. M. Eur. J. Inorg. Chem. 2001, 2455.  
(8) (a) Shen, P. K.; Tian, Z. Electrochim. Acta 2004, 49, 3107. (b) Z. Zhou, S. Wang, W. 
Zhou, G. Wang, L. Jiang, W. Li, S. Song, J. Liu, G. Sun and Q. Xin, Chem. Commun. 
2003, 394. 
(9) Schmidt, T. J.; Gasteiger, H. A.; Behm, R. J. Electrochem. Commun. 1999, 1, 1. 
(10) (a) Curtis, A. C.; Duff, D. G.; Edwards, P. P.; Jefferson, D. A.; Johnson, B. F. G.; 
Kirkland, A. I.; Wallace, A. S. J. Phys. Chem. 1988, 92, 2270. (b) Wang, Y.; Ren, J.; 
Deng, K.; Gui, L.; Tang, Y. Chem. Mater. 2000, 12, 1622.  
(11) Zhang, X.; Chan, K. Y. Chem. Mater. 2003, 15, 451.   
(12) (a) Che, G.; Lakshmi, B. B.; Fisher, E. R.; Martin, C. R. Nature 1998, 393, 346. (b) 
 125
(b) Samjeské, G.; Wang, H.; Löffler, T.; Baltruschat, H. Electrochim. Acta 2002, 47, 
3681. 
(22) (a) Yu, P.; Pemberton, M.; Plasse, P. J. Power Sources 2005, 144, 11. (b) Neto, A. O.; 
Vasconcelos, T. R. R.; Da Silva, R. W. R. V.; Linardi, M.; Spinacé, E. V. J. Appl. 
Electrochem. 2005, 35, 193. (c) Antolini, E.; Salgado, J. R. C.; Gonzalez, E. R. J. 
Electroanal. Chem. 2005, 580, 145. 
(23) (a) Shukla, A. K.; Neergat, M.; Bera, P.; Jayaram, V.; Hegde, M. S. J. Electroanal. 
Chem. 2001, 504, 111. (b) Deivaraj, T. C.; Chen, W.; Lee, J. Y. J. Mater. Chem. 2003, 
13, 2555. 
(24) (a) Watanabe, M.; Motoo, S. J. Electroanal. Chem. 1975, 60, 275. (b) Marković, N. 
M.; Gasteriger, H. A.; Ross, P. N. Electrochim. Acta 1995, 40, 91. 
(25) Ticianelli, E.; Berry, J. G.; Paffet, M. T.; Gottesfeld, S. J. Electroanal. Chem. 1977, 81, 
229. 
(26) Iwasita, T.; Nart, F. C.; Vielstich, W. Ber. Bunsenges Phys. Chem. 1990, 94, 1030. 
(27) (a) Frelink, T.; Visscher, W.; van Veen, J. A. R. Surface Sci. 1995, 335, 353. (b) 
Frelink, T.; Visscher, W.; van Veen, J. A. R. Langmuir 1996, 12, 3702. 
(28) Mc Breen, J.; Mukerjee, S. J. Electrochem. Soc. 1995, 142, 1409. 
(29) Iwasita, T; Hoster, H.; John-Anacker A.; Lin, W. F.; Vielstich, W. Langmuir, 2000, 16, 
522. 
(30) Shukla, A. K.; Aricò, A. S.; El-Khatib, M. K.; Kim, H.; Antonucci, P. L.; Antonucci, V. 
Appl. Surf. Sci. 1999, 137, 20. 
(31) Rolison, P. R.; Hagans, P. L.; Swider, K. E. Langmuir 1999, 15, 774. 
(32) (a) Buckley, A. N.; Kennedy, B. J. J. Electroanal. Chem. 1991, 302, 261. (b) Hamnett, 
A.; Kennedy, B. J., Wangner, F. E. J. Catal. 1990, 124, 30. 
(33) Ren, X.; Wilson, M. S.; Gottesfeld, S. J. Electrochem. Soc. 1996, 143, L12. 
 127
(50) (a) Frelink, T.; Visscher, W.; van Veen, J. A. R. Electrochim. Acta 1994, 39, 1871. (b) 
Bittins-Cattaneo, B.; Iwasita, T. J. Electroanal. Chem. 1987, 238, 151. 
(51) Cotton, F. A.; Wilkinson, G. Advanced Inorganic Chemistry, Wiley-Interscience, New 
York, 1980. 
(52) Marković, N.; Widekôv, A.; Ross, P. N.; Monteiro, O. R.; Brown, I. G. Catal. Lett. 
1997, 43, 161. 
(53) Zhou, W. J.; Song, S. Q.; Li, W. Z.; Zhou, Z. H.; Sun, G. Q.; Xin, Q.; Douvartzides, S.; 
Tsiakaras P. J. Power Sources 2005, 140, 50. 
(54) Jiang, L.; Zhou, Z.; Li, W.; Zhou, W.; Song, S.; Li, H.; Sun, G.; Xin, Q. Energy & 
Fuels 2004, 18, 866. 
(55) Aricò, A. S.; Creti, P.; Giordano, N.; Antonucci, V.; Antonucci, P. L.; Chuvilin, A. J. 
Appl. Electrochem. 1996, 26, 959.  
(56) Aricò, A. S.; Creti, P.; Giordano, N.; Cho, J.; Kim, H.; Antonucci, P. L.; Antonucci, V. 
Electrochim. Acta 1998, 43, 3719. 
(57) Gosser, D. K.; Cyclic Voltammetry : simulation and analysis of reaction mechanism, 
VCH Publisher Inc., 1993. 
(58) Bond, A. M.; Broadening Electrochemical Horizons – Principles and Illustration of 
Voltammetric and Related Techniques, Oxford University Press Inc., New York, 2002. 
(59) Bockris, J. O’M.; Reddy, A. K. N.; Gamboa-Aldeco, M.; Modern Electrochemistry 2nd 
ed., Kluwer Academic / Plenum Publishers, New York, 2000.      
(60) Wang, J.; Analytical Electrochemistry, 2nd ed., Wiley-VCH, New York, 2000. 
(61) Bard, A. J.; Faulkner, L. R.; Electrochemical Methods : Fundamentals and 
Applications, 2nd ed., John Wiley & Sons Inc., 2001.   
(62) Bagotzky, V. S.; Fundamentals of Electrochemistry, Plenum Press, New York, 1993. 
(63) Christensen, P. A.; Hamnett, A.; Techniques and Mechanisms in Electrochemistry, 
 129
Trans. 1 1984, 80, 571. 
(78) Parvulescu, V. I.; Coman, S.; Palade, P.; Macovei, D.; Teodorescu, C. M.; Filoti, G.; 
Molina, R.; Poncelet, G.; Wagner, F. E. Appl. Surf. Sci. 1999, 141, 164. 
(79) Deivaraj, T. C.; Lee, J. Y. J. Power Sources 2005, 142, 43. 
(80) Liu, Z.; Ling, X. Y.; Su, X.; Lee, J. Y. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108, 8234. 
(81) Giordano, N.; Passalacqua, E.; Pino, L.; Aricò, A. S.; Antonucci, V.; Vivaldi, M.; 
Kinoshita, K. Electrochim. Acta 1991, 36, 1979. 
(82) Peuckert, M.; Yoneda, T.; Dalla Betta, R. A.; Boudart, M. J. Electrochem. Soc. 1986, 
113, 944.   
(83) Kim, T.; Takahashi, M.; Nagai, M.; Kobayashi, K. Electrochim. Acta 2004, 50, 813. 
(84) (a) Chai, G. S.; Yoon, S. B.; Yu, J. S.; Choi, J. H.; Sung, Y. E. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 
108, 7074. (b) Hutchinson, J. M., Jr. Platinum Met. Rev. 1972, 16, 88.   
(85) Cullity, B. D., Elements of X-Ray Diffraction (3rd edition), Addison-Wesley Publishing 
Co., Inc., Reading, MA, 1956. 
(86) (a) Yang, H.; Vogel, W.; Lamy, C.; Alonso-Vante, N. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108, 
11024. (b) Zhou, Z.; Wang, S.; Zhou, W.; Jiang, L.; Wang, G.; Sun, G.; Zhou, B.; Xin, Q. 
Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2003, 5, 5485.  
(87) Lu, Q.; Yang, B.; Zhuang, L.; Lu, J. J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 1715.  
(88) (a) Park, K. W.; Choi, J. H.; Kwon, B. K.; Lee, S. A.; Sung, Y. E.; Ha, H. Y.; Hong, S. 
A.; Kim, H. Y.; Wieckowski, A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2002, 106, 1869. (b) Carmo, M.; 
Paganin, V. A.; Rosolen, J. M.; Gonzalez, E. R. J. Power Sources, 2005, 142, 169. 
(89) Jiang, J.; Kucernak, A. Chem. Mater. 2004, 16, 1362.  
(90) Antilini, E.; Cardellini, F. J. Alloy Comp. 2001, 315, 118. 
(91) Zhang, X.; Tsang, K. Y.; Chan, K. Y. J. Electroanal. Chem. 2004, 573, 1.  
(92) Xiong, L.; Manthiram, A. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2005, 152, A697. 
 131
(106) Prabhuram, J.; Wang, X.; Hui, C. L.; Hsing, I. M. J. Phys. Chem. B 2003, 107, 
11057. 
(107) Aricò, A. S.; Creti, P.; Kim, H.; Mantegna, R.; Giordano, N.; Antonucci, V. J 
Electrochem. Soc. 1996, 143, 3950. 
(108) (a) Aricò, A. S.; Baglio, V.; Di Blasi, A.; Modica, E.; Antonucci, P. L.; Antonucci, V. 
J. Electroanal. Chem. 2003, 557, 167. (b) Aricò, A. S.; Baglio, V.; Di Blasi, A.; Modica, 
E.; Monforte, G.; Antonucci, V. J. Electroanal. Chem. 2005, 576, 161.  
(109) (a) Swider, K. E.; Hagans, P. L.; Merzbacher, C. I.; Rolison, D. R. Chem. Mater. 
1997, 9, 1248. (b) Lin, S. D.; Hsiao, T. C.; Chang, J. R.; Lin, A. S. J. Phys. Chem. B 
1999, 103, 97. 
(110) (a) Aricò, A. S.; Creti, P.; Modica, E.; Monforte, G.; Baglio, V.; Antonucci, V. 
Electrochim. Acta 2000, 45, 4319. (b) Knecht, J.; Stark, G.; Frensius, Z. Anal. Chem. 
1978, 289, 206. 
(111) (a) Zeng, J.; Lee, J. Y. J. Power Sources 2005, 140, 268. (b) Salgado, J. R. C.; 
Antolini, E.; Gonzalez, E. R. J. Power Sources 2005, 141, 13.  
(112) Zsoldos, Z.; Guczi, L. J. Phys. Chem. 1992, 96, 9393. 
(113) Gautier, J. L.; Marco, J. F.; Gracia, N.; Gancedo, J. R.; de la Garza Guadarrama, V.; 
Nguyen-Cong, H.; Chartier, P. Electrochim. Acta 2002, 48, 119. 
(114) (a) Ye, H.; Crooks, M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2005, 127, 4930. (b) Fu, X.; Wang, Y.; Wu, 
N.; Gui, L.; Tang, Y. J. Colloid Interface Sci. 2001, 243, 326.  
(115) Luo, J.; Maye, M. M.; Han, L.; Kariuki, N. N.; Jones, V. W.; Lin, Y.; Engelhard, M. 
H.; Zhong, C. J. Langmuir 2004, 20, 4254. 
(116) Liu, Z.; Ling, X. Y.; Lee, J. Y.; Su, X.; Gan, L. M. J. Mater. Chem. 2003, 13, 3049. 
(117) (a) Adenier, A.; Chehimi, M. M.; Gallardo, I.; Pinson, J.; Vilà, N. Langmuir 2004, 20, 
8243. (b) Hecq, A.; Delrue, J. P.; Hecq, M.; Robert, T. J. Mater. Sci. 1981, 16, 407. 
 133
