diversity of courses, including 5 undergraduate and 
graduates curses in my first year appointment, the 
performance time for this research project was 
extended to a period of two years granted by NSC. 
This research is completed to achieve the above three 
goals. First a high vacuum system is almost set up in 
my new lab at NCUE. Subsequently the characterization 
of field emitter array photocathode for high quantum 
efficiency test was performed at UC Davis during 2010 
summer. Finally a temporal response model for a high 
quantum efficiency gated p-Si field emitter array 
photocathode was proposed to well explain the 
experimental results. These results have been written 
as a paper and are prepared to submit the Journal of 
Applied Physics. In this report these accomplishments 
will be described according to the above three goals 
in details.            
 
英文關鍵詞： Field emission photocathode, quantum efficiency, 
photocathode 
 
 目錄  ………..…..I 
中英文摘要 …..II 
 
報告內容  
I. Introduction  ………………………1 
II. Literature Survey  ……….……...2 
III. Approach  ………………….………..4  
IV. Results and Discussions  ………5 
V. Summary and Suggestions  ….8 
VI. Reference List  …………………...10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I 
REPORT 
 
I. Introduction: 
The aim of my research is to generate density-modulated electron bunches, called electron 
pre-bunching, by optically gating p-Si Field Emitter Arrays (FEAs) and to find their applications in 
Microwave Vacuum Electronic Devices (MVEDs). Pre-bunching by electrically modulating gated p-Si 
FEAs has been previously studied [1]; however, their frequency response is limited by the large 
gate-to-substrate capacitance. For high power RF vacuum microelectronics, high current density is 
required along with a large area cathode in order to obtain high current beams. These requirements 
are not compatible with the need for low capacitance. Pre-bunching by optically gating an FEA can 
bypass the gate capacitance problem and thereby potentially enable one to achieve high brightness 
and high frequency electron bunches [2]. The research conducted by the author and his Ph.D. 
adviser at University of California, Davis in the pass few years has presented a proof-of-principle 
drift transient time spread (TTS) limited response of 40 ps rise time by optically modulating a p-Si 
FEA with Ti: Sapphire mode-lock laser [3]. Fig. 1 shows the SEM images for a high packing density of 
p-Si FEA fabricated by the author at UC Davis. The experimental arrangement for optical excitation 
and high-speed measurement is illustrated in Fig. 2. 
 
Fig. 1 SEM images showing the structure of a high packing density emitter array with 2 μm scale (a) 
and 5 μm scale (b). The FEA has a 1mm x 1mm active area of 326x326 emitters with ~ 2.5 μm pitch 
and 1.2 μm gate aperture opening.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                         1 
Si tip 
gate 
metal 
                       
Fig. 3 Illustrations for generation of electron bunches from an emitter array into vacuum with an 
electrical-gating FEA cathode and a photo-gating FEA cathode. The photo-gating FEA cathode 
enables one to bypass the gate-to-substrate capacitance to achieve higher modulation speed.  
 
     Unlike a n-type or metal FEA, a p-type semiconductor FEA exhibits high photo-sensitivity at 
high applied electrical fields due to creation of a field-penetrated depletion layer [9]. For p-type 
semiconductor FEAs in the presence of high fields there is insufficient electron supply at the emitter 
surface to maintain substantial emission current, thus the field penetrates into the substrate 
creating a depletion layer (a depletion region created is shown in Fig. 2). In this regime emission 
current saturates, limited by electron generation rate in the depletion layer. In this case emission 
current can be increased by injecting carriers into the depletion region through absorption of light. 
With ultra-short optical pulses excitation picosecond time scale electron bunches can be emitted. 
Studies of pulsed optical modulation on gated p-Si FEAs on earlier reports, however, showed a 
disappointing slow response on the order of microseconds which was limited by carrier diffusion 
[10]. We have previously demonstrated a proof-of-principle drift transient time spread (TTS) limited 
photoresponse with a ~ 40 ps rise time by optically modulating a gated p-Si FEA [11]. In that study a 
delayed microsecond response appeared along with the drift limited picosecond that was not 
satisfactorily explained. Our most recent studies from an optimized gated p-Si FEA device with a 
high packing density of emitter tips showed even better results with a minimal slow response that 
enabled us to verify the origin of the slow response as arising from diffusion of electrons from 
undepeleted regions [12]. 
     The quantum efficiency (QE) for our picosecond photo-assisted emission current is estimated 
to be ~ 0.2 %. While this is an un-satisfactory efficiency for a useful device, it is already better than 
that for metallic photoemission cathodes. Of the metal photocathodes the highest QE of 0.07 % was 
obtained using 266 nm laser pulses with frequency-quadrupled mode-locked Nd: YAG laser from 
samarium photocathode [13]. Furthermore, the QE of 0.2 % of our gated p-Si FEA photocathodes 
3 
emission electrons from the emitter surface will be a critical assistance to understand the 
mechanisms behind the pulsed photoresponse from FEA photocathodes.  
The author’s Ph.D. adviser, Prof. Jonathan P. Heritage at UC Davis who is an emeritus professor 
and also a fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineering (IEEE), the American 
Physical Society (APS) and the Optical Society of America (OSA), has shown his interest and 
commitment for collaboration for the proposed research. He will also support to purchase a BBO 
SHG crystal.  
   A BBO SHG crystal normally has only a few percents efficiency for SHG, and the optical power of 
the obtained blue pulses might be insufficient to produce a photoresponse for detection of a high 
bandwidth real time oscilloscope (e.g. Agilent DSO 9104 A with 1GHz bandwidth and 10 GHz 
sampling rate used by the author when working at UC Davis). The need for an oscilloscope used in 
the measurement is illustrated in Fig. 2. In this case, a regenerative femtosecond optical amplifier 
can be used to produce ~ 1mJ (substantially larger than ~ 1 nJ for Ti: Sapphire mode lock laser), 800 
nm optical pulses at 1 kHz which can readily be doubled to achieve ~100 µJ per pulse. The author 
can find a regenerative amplifier needed as an alternative for SGH blue pulses in Prof. Diego 
Yankelevich’s lab at UC Davis. Prof. Yankelevich is also a coauthor for the author’s recent paper listed 
as Ref. [12].  
 
IV Results and Discussions 
   The vacuum system was setup with an Agilent (Varian) vacuum pumping station, which includes 
a turbo high vacuum pump, a dry scroll roughing pump, and a vacuum measurement gauge.    
For our previous gated p-Si FEA devices having a 1 mm x 1mm active area, 50 x 50 array (20 μm 
spacing), and ~ 0.8 μm gate opening diameter, the factor of light shielding by gate metal on active 
area can be calculated by the ratio of gate aperture opening area to gate metal area to obtain a 
number of 1:1000. Most recently we designed a high packing FEA with the same active area but a 
357 x 357 array and a ~2.6 μm pitch to reduce the factor of light shielding to be ~ 1:20. The high 
packing FEA was fabricated using the improved fabrication process used for previous high and low 
resistivity FEAs but with some modification. The high packing FEA devices is shown as in Fig.1. These 
devices were pulsed on the front side with using the same experiment setup illustrated in Fig. 2. In 
Fig. 7 the top profile shows the photoresponse from photo-exciting the active area and the bottom 
profile shows the photoresponse from photo-exciting the oxide area. Compared to the profile from 
the oxide area, the profile from the active area exhibits a delayed and slow response with 
substantially reduced strength. This can also be explained with the temporal model in Fig. 2. For 
photoresponse from the active area photoelectrons were limited only on the area beneath the gate 
aperture opening where most of photoelectrons are generated within the depletion region thus the 
contribution of slow diffusion was minimized. As a contrast, on the oxide area because of a thinner  
5 
     Furthermore, the origin of slow response for the bottom profile in Fig. 7 can be verified by 
photo-excitation with a reduced number of optical pulses. The bottom profile in Fig. 9 shows the 
photoresponse with reduced photo-excited optical pulse numbers by adjusting the pulse train 
period on the AOM circuit. The reduction resulted in reduced strength of slow response, indicating 
the slow response was integrated by a few slow responses, each of which was resulted from each 
pulse photo-excitation. This can be further confirmed by a similar slow response component from a 
fast photodiode, as present in Fig. 10, in which the pulses beam spot was located away from the 
central active area on purpose to reveal the diffusion. Moreover, it was noted that the strength of 
both fast and slow response from the active area increased with increasing the gate voltage. The 
absorption depth of 15 μm for 800 nm wavelength was largely beyond the depletion layer 
underneath the gate opening. The enlarger depletion depth underneath the emitter tips resulted in 
more photoelectrons to be generated from the depletion region and also more photoelectrons to 
be captured from outside the depletion region. This explanation can be envisioned using the 
temporal model in Fig.2. For this regard, the employ of fast UV pulse with shorter absorption depth 
is anticipated to completely eliminate the slow response and obtain only drift limited 
photoresponse. We have made efforts to use SHG blue pulses with Ti: Sapphire mode-locked laser 
and a BBO double crystal; unfortunately, the SHG blue pulses did not have sufficient optical power 
to obtain detectable photoresponse.   
 
Fig. 9 An oscilloscope picture shows photoresponse from the active area with different number of 
optical pulse train. 
 
 
 
 
 
7 
mainly due to inevitable light shielding by gate metal for front side photo-excitation. To achieve a  
high quantum yield, backside photo-excitation without light shielding by gate metal is required. For 
this regard, an intrinsic or lightly doped substrate is required to obtain a fully depleted layer through 
the substrate to confine generation of photoelectrons. With the use of lightly doped substrate, a RC 
time constant due to the high substrate series resistance, however, will be a limited factor as 
indicated from the measured results from our lightly doped p-Si FEA. Considering all of these 
observations, an optimum gated FEA photocathode can only be fulfill with a back-thinned p-i-n 
based FEA structure. Fig. 11 shows our proposed structure in which n-type emitters are needed in 
order for the intrinsic layer to be reverse-biased depleted when a positive anode voltage is applied. 
This structure would also benefits from lowering the emission dark current being determined by the 
dark current of the integrated p-i-n photodiode, which was demonstrated by a similar p-i-n based 
n-Si FEA structure but without back-thinning [10]. Furthermore, like a p-i-n photodiode, the 
thickness of the intrinsic layer can be tailored to meet a specific laser wavelength, enabling using 
visible or near infrared laser pulse system.  
 
Fig. 11 An illustration showing an optimum FEA photocathode with a p-i-n based back-thinned n-Si 
FEA structure. 
 
     Our demonstration of proof-of-principle drift limited response on the order of a few tens of 
picoseconds has entitled us to compare a FEA photocathode, a field-assisted photoemission 
cathode, with a conventional photoemission cathode. Photoemission photocathodes have been 
widely investigated in the past few decades but their practical applications are still limited by some 
critical technical challenges. Metal photoemission cathodes have merits of chemical stability but 
suffer from low quantum efficiency (<0.1%) [13]. Due to a high work function a metal 
photoemission cathode system needs the use of an expensive and complicated UV laser system [11]. 
Semiconductor photoemission cathodes can achieve a high quantum efficiency with a negative 
electron affinity (NEA) surface, and are capable of using a visible or near IR laser system. However, 
they still suffer from chemical instability under exposure of light illumination and gas residue [12]. 
Field-assisted photoemission Si FEA can have a combination of advantages of metal and  
9 
敘?科?經?實?技?敘 繳?科?定1師?須?技敘表?測?技?技?須?表?!
整?測?科?定1及?師?說?師?師?須?科?規?須2科?：?實?技敘實?測?字?稿?敘?表?：?科?定1技敘表?及?整?規?表科謝科字?稿?
師?－實繳?師?敘?師?技敘表?表規字?表?及?經?實?：?稿?師?：?稿?權?表科須?及?定：須?師?及?字?能?表字－說：?科?技?整?
字?字?整?規?測?字?須?表?表科字?整?敘?技?：?字?師?須?規?表科定?字3技繳權?稿?師?須?：?技?及?說?字?須?技?：? 
1. 整?測?科?定1及?師?說?師?師?須?科?規?須2科?：?實?技敘實?測?字?稿?敘?表?技?及?說?字?須?技? 
▓?實?技敘字?稿? 
－? 字?實?技敘字?稿?－實整?說?表3：?字?100 字?科?師?－說 
－? 實?驗?字?敘?!
－? 字?科?實?驗?及?繳實 
－? 定?字3師?字? 
說?表3：?實?技敘師?須?能?及?及?須?字?稿?(1) 科?字?及?表?定2規?  
                          (2) 敘?能經能?測?須?師?字?測測經?須?測? 
                          (3) 實?權?須?表?說?稿?科?科?字? 
 
 
 
2. 科?定1技敘表?字?整?規?測?字?須?表?表科字?整?敘?技?須?敘?技?：? 
整▓字須：?－?及?須?表?!－?字?須?表?及?字須稿?▓?稿?稿?及?!－?須字!
敘?技?：?－?及?謝?敘?!－?字?整?及?!－?須字!
技?繳?：?－?及?技?繳?!－?科?整?及?!－?須字!
定?字3：?－實字?100 字?科?師?－說!
 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/12/03
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 高量子效率p型矽場發射矩陣光陰極
計畫主持人: 江慶仁
計畫編號: 99-2218-E-018-001- 學門領域: 光電子材料元件與模組
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
期刊論文撰寫中 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
