 2
Using Fano Plane and Image Centroids for Rotation, Scaling, or Translation 
Resistant Watermarking 
 
 
Zhi-Fang Yang, Chih-Jung Su, Ping-Chang Tseng, and Chan-Ting Shu 
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering 
National Taipei University, Taipei County ,237 Taiwan, R.O.C. 
zfyang@mail.ntpu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract—Robustness to geometric distortions such as 
rotation, scaling, and translation (RST) is one important 
ability for image watermarking. The purpose of this work 
is to decide which one of the RST distortions happens and 
to detect the corresponding parameters. The centroids of 
the cover image is utilized to estimate distortion 
parameter candidates, and a watermark with structural 
information is used to decide the desired parameters 
based on correlation. The experimental results show the 
feasibility of the proposed approach. 
 
Keywords-watermarking; RST; centroid 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Easy access of digital multimedia spread over the 
internet enables digital copyrights and content integrity  
hot research topics [1,3,5]. Among a variety of 
possible solutions, digital watermarking is one 
potential technique [5]. Robustness to various kinds of 
distortions appearing during transmission is an 
important issue of digital watermarking. Especially, 
distortions cause geometric changes such as rotation, 
scaling, and translation (RST) are quite common for 
normal processing [4-5]. 
A variety of research works can be found under the 
topic of RST-resistant watermarking [1-5]. Techniques 
can be classified into the following categories, namely, 
exhaustive searching in the whole parameter space, 
searching parameters by using a special designed 
synchronization pattern, using designed properties of 
watermarks for synchronization, embedding 
watermarks in an invariant domain, using actual 
features as synchronization patterns, and so on [5].  
In Mwangi [4], properties of centroids of the digital 
image are used to calculate parameters of RST 
distortions. Formulas are derived by using different 
measures based on the centroids for RST distortions, 
respectively. However, the system must be informed 
which one of the RST distortions happens in order to 
select the corresponding formula. 
In this study, the centroids and a structural 
watermark cooperate together to achieve detection of  
the parameters of one of RST distortions without 
knowing which one appears. The proposed method 
estimates the initial guesses for the parameters of RST 
distortions, respectively. Then the structural 
information of the embedded watermark is used to 
search the correct parameter set based on correlation. 
Thus, the distorted image can be corrected by inversely 
applying the corresponding distortion. 
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. 
Section 2 shows the proposed approach, including 
system overview, proposed watermark, and 
correlation-based parameter searching. The 
experimental results are presented in section 3, and the 
final conclusions are given in section 4. 
 
II. PROPOSED APPROACH 
 
A. System Overview 
 
The proposed watermarking system is shown in 
Figure 1. Figure 1(a) illustrates the functions of the 
sender site. First, an original image I0 is sent into the 
sender site. After the discrete wavelet transform 
applied to I0 [6], the proposed watermark Wa is 
embedded into the selected coefficients of the 
transformed image It. The watermarked Itw is later 
transformed back to the spatial domain, which is 
denoted as Iw. Then, the centroids of Iw are computed, 
namely, the centroid of the image Ca and the centroid 
of the image negative Cb, and the image center Oa is 
computed as well. For the consideration of security of 
transmission, the watermarked image is transmitted via 
one channel, and the centroids are sent to the receiver 
site through another channel. 
 
 4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Module of attack range test. 
 
 
 
C. Centroid Computation and Initial Attack 
computation 
 
The computation of image centroids basically 
utilizes the formulas derived in Mwangi [4], a total of 
four centroids are computed in the whole system, 
including the centroid of the original image Ca, the 
centroid of the original image negative Cb, the centroid 
of the transmitted image Ca’, and the centroid of the 
transmitted image negative Cb’. 
The initial guess of the rotation parameter Er is 
calculated based on the assumption of only rotation 
happened, and thus Er can be found by applying the 
idea proposed in Mwangi [4]. The corresponding 
formula is as follows. 
Er = arctan(
''
''
axbx
ayby
CC
CC
−
− )－arctan(
axbx
ayby
CC
CC
−
− ),          (1) 
where Ca=[Cax Cay]T, Cb=[Cbx Cby]T, Ca’=[Cax’ Cay’]T, 
and Ca’=[Cbx’ Cby’]T. 
Following similar assumptions, the parameters Es 
can be computed based on the work in Mwangi [4] as 
well, and the corresponding formula is as follows: 
Es = 
aa
aa
CO
CO '' ,                                  (2) 
where '' aaCO  is the distance between Oa’and Ca’, and 
''
aaCO  the distance between Oa and Ca. 
The third parameter Et is also computed by using 
the corresponding formulas of the idea proposed in 
Mwangi [4], and that is 
 
Et = Ca’－ Ca.                               (3) 
 
D.  Attack range Test 
 
Because that only one kind of RST distortion is 
considered in this study and that which one actually 
appears is unknown, a stage of searching through 
parameter candidates follows. According to the 
experimental experiences, the searching ranges for the 
initial guesses, Er, Es, and Et, are suggested to be ±10o, 
±0.5, and ±5, respectively. 
The RST parameter set candidates are constructed 
by collecting all the combinations of the values in the 
selected ranges. Note that just one of the three RST 
parameters is nonzero since only one kind of attacks is 
considered in this work. 
For each RST parameter set candidate, the 
transmitted watermarked image Ir is first inversely 
transformed. Then the inversed image It is transformed 
into the wavelet domain, and the embedded watermark 
is extracted. Since the original image is not available at 
the receiver site, the extracted watermark Ws+r needs to 
be verified. 
Noise reduction is applied to Ws+r by deleting 
smaller components and leaving only seven largest 
connected components of the extracted watermark 
Ws+r. The seven connected components are then 
treated as the seven marks imposed on the proposed 
watermark. However, which extracted connected 
component corresponds to the center mark needs to be 
verified. The procedure is to select one of the seven 
detected marks as the center mark candidate, then to 
find the other six mark candidates by checking the 
distances and angles between the selected center mark 
and each of the other six marks. Calculate the linear 
correlation between the located mark candidates on 
Ws+r and the proposed watermark Wa. The center mark 
candidate with the highest value of linear correlation is 
then chosen as the center mark. The corresponding 
extracted watermark is viewed as the best pattern Wd, 
and the linear correlation value is normalized by the 
total size of the marks on Ws+r to represent the 
corresponding RST parameter set candidate. 
Finally, after all the RST parameter set candidates 
are tested, the parameter set with the heist normalized 
extraction 
Image 
inversion 
 6
Enlargement of Balanced-incomplete-block-designs-based Watermarks  
 
 
Zhi-Fang Yang, Po-Chen Lee, Wei-Hung Chen, and Jia-Guu Leu 
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering 
 National Taipei University, Taipei County, 237 Taiwan, R.O.C. 
zfyang@mail.ntpu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract—Large number of watermarks is crucial for 
some real watermarking applications, such as transaction 
tracking. The purpose of this paper is to enlarge the 
structured watermarks based on balanced incomplete 
block designs (BIBD). An approach is proposed to 
generate new structured watermarks by combining 
existing BIBD-based watermarks. The corresponding 
recognition rules for the new set of watermarks are 
designed based on the structure information contained. 
Experimental results show the properties of the proposed 
watermarks based on true positive and false positive rates 
under Gaussian noise. 
 
Keywords-watermark; balanced incomplete block 
designs (BIBD) 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Digital multimedia is spread over the internet in the 
current era. Illegal reproduction and modification of 
digital content thus have become a serious problem. 
Study of techniques of copyright protection and 
content authentication has been a hot topic, and digital 
watermarking is one of the potential techniques. 
Digital watermarking aims to embed watermarks 
into digital contents, and expects the information 
contained in the watermarks to help verify ownership 
or to improve quality of the transmitted digital content. 
Thus, robustness of the digital watermark is an 
important issue. A variety of studies on watermarking 
robustness can be found, including use of the human 
visual system [1-2], neural network [3], fuzzy logic [4], 
different transform domains [6], and so on [5]. 
In our previous work [8], one special kind of 
watermarks has been designed to propose one 
possibility of achieving robust watermarking. The 
proposed watermark is based on the balanced and 
incomplete block designs (BIBD) [7], which is a 
mathematical structure. The structural properties of 
BIBD, namely, balance and incompleteness, are 
considered beneficial to robustness of digital 
watermarking in our thoughts, and the experimental 
results have shown the feasibility of the proposed 
watermark. 
However, the number of BIBD-based watermarks is 
limited because that each BIBD set can only generate 
one proposed BIBD-based watermark, and that the 
number of BIBD sets is quite limited [7]. Not enough 
number of available watermarks would be a fatal 
drawback for some watermarking application, such as 
transaction tracking in which large number of 
watermarks may be required to represent all the 
transactions respectively. 
In this study, concatenation of the previous 
proposed BIBD-based watermarks is considered to 
generate more BIBD-based watermarks. The goal is to 
obtain a large number of BIBD-based watermarks 
which still keep the structural information of BIBD. In 
the proposed method, arbitrary number of BIBD 
incidence matrices can be concatenated, and the 
corresponding recognition rules are derived. 
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. 
Section 2 shows the proposed approach, including 
introduction of BIBD, system overview, and 
watermark design and recognition. The experimental 
results are presented in section 3, and the final 
conclusions are given in section 4. 
II. PROPOSED APPROACH 
A. BIBD 
A BIBD is a structured set, which can be described 
as a pair (V, β). The V set consists of v elements, and β 
is a set of k-subsets of v. The k-subsets are called 
blocks, and the total number of the blocks is b. The 
structural information of the BIBD also includes that 
each element of V is contained exactly in r blocks, and 
that any of the 2-subsets of V is contained in exactly λ 
blocks. Therefore, the parameters used to define a 
BIBD set are v, k, r, b and λ [7].  
 
 8
Theoretically, a total of 2N watermarks can be 
generated, where N is the number of available BIBD 
sets. Then the watermark design procedure would 
begin at gathering the BIBD sets with proper sizes 
according to the application, prepare the set of keys 
representing different combinations of the gathered 
BIBD sets for transactions or users, and proceed with 
key selection, watermark generation, and embedding 
parts for each transaction or user. Notice that the keys 
are available at the receiver site; that is, which BIBD 
sets are involved and the related order information are 
known when the watermark recognizer works. 
At the receiver site, the recognition rules applied in 
the watermark recognizer is as follows: 
 
))111(11(100
)1(100
1 1211
2∑ ∑∑∑
= ===
++−
=−=
n
i
C
l
lv
i
b
k
b
k
iib
v
j
v
j
iivi
iv
i
i
i
i
i
i R
Cw
R
bw
R
vww
RS
λ
λ
,(1) 
 
where S is the score of the watermark gets, R the total 
error rate of a transmitted watermark, n the number of 
BIBD sets involved, vi, bi, and λi the parameters of the 
ith involved BIBD set, wi the weight of the error rate of 
th ith involved BIBD set with ∑
=
n
i
iw
1
=1,  wiv, wib, and w 
iλ the weights for the bit error rates of the ith BIBD 
set’s structural parameters v, b, and λ with 
1=++ λiibiv www , ivjR  the error rate of the jth row of 
the ith involved BIBD set, ibkR  the error rate of the kth 
column of the ith involved BIBD set, and ilR
λ  the error 
rate of the lth pair of elements the ith involved BIBD 
set. 
As we can see from the above recognition formula, 
the structural information contained in the proposed 
watermark is checked by examining each involved 
BIBD incidence matrix individually. For each BIBD 
incidence matrix, the structural information is checked 
through the parameters v, b, and λ, respectively. For 
each parameter, the bit error rate is evaluated for all 
corresponding elements. The calculation of the bit 
error rate follows our previous work [8].  
The weight wi is selected according to the 
corresponding importance. For example, if the size of 
the BIBD incidence matrix is the only considered 
factor, the weight for the ith BIBD set would be 
∑
=
××
n
i
iiii bvbv
1
. Based on the same thoughts, the 
weights wiv, wib, and w iλ can be imposed. 
Overall speaking, the formula looks correlation-
based, and the underlying idea is that the structural 
information is checked by examining the special 
relations imposed on a set of v elements for the BIBD 
set. 
III. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
Experiments were conducted to test the true positive 
and the false positive [6] both for the proposed BIBD 
watermark and the watermarked real image, 
respectively. The BIBD watermark used in the 
experiments was composed of arbitrary two BIBD sets 
from the parameter set (7, 3, 6, 14, 2) with which there 
are a total of four BIBD sets. Thus, the weights of each 
individual BIBD set, wi, is 0.5, and the weights, wiv, wib, 
and w iλ, are all equal to 1/3 for an individual BIBD set. 
Gaussian noise was added; the deviations were set to 
0.1, 0.15, 0.2, 0.25, 0.3 and 0.35 for the proposed 
BIBD watermark, and 0.5, 1, 5, 10, 15, and 20 for the 
watermarked real image. The embedding strength of 
the watermark is selected as 4 according to 
experimental experiences. A total of 1000 randomly 
composed BIBD watermark were tested for each data 
point in Figure 3 and Figure 5, and a total of 200 
watermarked real images were testes for each data 
point in Figure 4 and Figure 6. The image Lena was 
selected as the real image in the experiments. 
Figure 3 and Figure 5 present the experimental 
results of true positive. Setting the threshold around 
eighties, the system can get nearly 100% true positive 
rate. It means the proposed recognition rules work 
successfully for the proposed BIBD-based watermark. 
Figure 4 and Figure 6 present the experimental results 
of false negative. We can see the system can get lower 
false positive rates if the thresholds were set around 
nineties. 
IV. CONCLUSIONS 
A new approach to enlarging the BIBD-based 
watermark set has been proposed. The corresponding 
recognition rules have also been designed, and the 
experiments under Gaussian noise have been 
conducted as well. According to the experimental 
results, future works are suggested to improve the false 
positive rate by designing more complicated 
combination rules of watermark design and the 
corresponding recognition rules as well. 
REFERENCES 
[1] Jiwu Huang, Yun Q. Shi, and Yi Shi, “Embedding Image 
Watermarks in DC Components”, IEEE Trans. Circuits and 
Systems, volume. 10, No. 6, September, 2000, pp. 974-979. 
[2] Chiou-Ting Hsu and Ja-Ling Wu, “Hidden Digital Watermarks in 
Images”, IEEE Trans. Image Processing, volume 8, No. 1, 
January 1, pp. 58-68. 
[3] Chip-Hong Chang, Zhi Ye, and Mingyan Zhang, “Fuzzy-ART 
Based Adaptive Digital Watermarking Scheme”, IEEE Trans. 
Circuits and Systems, volume 15, No. 1, January, 2005. pp. 65-81 
