 2
在液珠成長後，利用自發驅動力將液滴移開空
出冷凝表面，預備下一次液珠的冷凝產生，其
熱傳量相信將大於目前的表面均質冷凝片，本
研究的重點便是發展冷凝片表面上之表面改
質技術，利用表面能量分佈定義，使冷凝液滴
產生自發性驅動力(圖 1 所示)，在無外力狀況
下快速移動液滴至回收槽中，以達到冷凝系統
之最佳化設計。 
 
2. 表面改質冷凝晶片設計及製造 
 
表面改質主要目的在於將一基材表面原
來的特性，改變成實驗實所需的特性，而此特
性 的 定 義 為 基 材 表 面 的 接 觸 角 (contact 
angle)，接觸角大於 90o稱為疏水表面，接觸角
小於 90o 的稱為親水表面，亦即將基材表面改
質成為疏水表面或親水表面。本實驗因考慮到
冷凝板應用必須在 1000C 環境下，故冷凝板在
改質後在此環境下仍能保持其疏水性效果方
能採用，經本研究實驗証明下述二種方法均能
滿足此環境的表面改質方法:  
 
(1) 十八烷三氯矽烷 Octadecyltrichlorosilane 
(OTS, CH3(CH2)18SiCl3) 表面改質技術:本實驗
所使用 OTS 為德國 MERCK 公司生產，形狀
是透明液體，密度 0.98g/cm3。OTS 的分子主
要是由 12~18 個碳的碳鏈所組成，在碳鏈的一
端為三氯矽烷(-SiCl3)，其矽原子將鍵結在二氧
化矽基材上(圖 2 所示)；另一端則是具有疏水
特性的甲基(-CH3)。OTS 可在二氧化矽表面上
形成自組裝單分子層(SAM)。經由量測表面的
contact angle 可知 OTS 改質能將原來清水的
表面改成疏水的表面，如圖 3 所示。 
 
(2) 十二烷硫醇(1-Dodecanethoil)表面改質
技術: 本實驗所使用的十二烷硫醇為 Fluka 公
司生產，化學式為 C12H26S，之透明液體，沸點
約 116℃，密度 0.844 g/cm3 ，屬於烷基硫醇
（alkanethiols），具有十二個碳鏈長度，一
端為硫原子鍵結在金屬基材上；另一端則是甲
基分子(-CH3)，具有疏水性特性，可在矽晶圓
表面上的黃金薄膜上形成自組裝單分子層，其
製程如圖 2 所示。圖 4 中包括(a)清洗矽晶圓
(b)蒸鍍黏著層鉻金屬(c)蒸鍍黃金(d)定義光
阻圖案(e)蝕刻黃金及鉻(f)丙酮去除光阻
(g)KOH去除光阻(h)Pirranha 去除殘餘鉻金屬
(i)浸泡硫醇溶液(j)乙醇去除多餘硫醇。經由
量測表面的 contact angle 可知硫醇改質能將
原來清水的表面改成疏水的表面，如圖5所示。 
本研究目前冷凝晶片表面改質設計包括
下列兩種形狀: 
 
(1)梳狀冷凝板 
圖 6 為本文梳狀冷凝板設計之實體圖，淺
色部份 d1為黃金材質，深色部份 d2為矽晶圓材
質部分，本研究共製作線寬與線距為 100μm
及 1mm 的梳狀分佈的表面溼潤度冷凝板，並以
實驗方法探討不同尺寸因素對於冷凝效益之
影響。 
 
(1)梯度表面冷凝板 
在冷凝片應用上，為產生自發液滴驅動
力，在表面改質冷凝晶片上，本研究也利用微
影製程技術於冷凝晶片之表面能量分佈之定
義，所設計之冷凝晶片表面是由眾多微米尺度
之單位複合格點所組成的複合表面。在複合表
面上每單位格點由兩種材質組成，如圖 7 所
示，淺灰色及深色分別代表兩種不同溼潤性的
材料。利用單位格點內面積密度之設計，製作
不同面積比率(Area Ratio)之親疏水表面，根
據 Cassie【6】在 1944 年所提出的理論為基礎，
新製作之親疏水複合表面其接觸角可表示為: 
 
( ), , 1sa c sl cc
la
Cos
γ γθ γ
−= LLLLL
( ), ,i1
, i ,
1
, 2
sa c sa i
n
n
sl c sl i
AR
n N
AR
γ γ
γ γ
×
∈
= ×
=∑
∑
LLL
 4
4. 實驗結果與討論 
  
實驗結果的討論，將以均質表面改質冷凝板和
非均勻表面改質冷凝板為主要討論重點。 
 
 (1)均質表面改質冷凝板 
本實驗選用四種材料做為均勻表面冷凝
板，分別是無氧銅冷凝板、親水性矽晶圓冷凝
板、疏水性 OTS 冷凝板及疏水性硫醇冷凝板作
為均質表面改質冷凝板實驗，圖 11 為親水性
矽晶圓冷凝板及疏水性硫醇冷凝板液滴冷凝
狀態圖，圖 11(a)所使用的全親水表面為乾淨的
矽晶片表面，其接觸角為 25°左右。將親水均
質表面的冷凝板放置於冷凝腔體內作冷凝熱
傳實驗，利用 CCD 攝影機來觀察此冷凝板表面
液滴冷凝的情形，在冷凝板上可以很明顯觀察
到膜式冷凝的現象，水蒸氣在親水均質表面上
冷凝後，形成許多的小液滴，小液滴之間互相
合併後以水膜的方式披覆在冷凝板上，此水膜
由於重力原因會稍微移動，但移動速度不明
顯。圖 11(a)所使用的全疏水表面為十二烷硫醇
對黃金表面改質的疏水表面，其接觸角為 110°
左右。使用此疏水均質表面的冷凝板作冷凝熱
傳實驗，可觀察到蒸氣在冷凝板上形成滴式冷
凝的現象，有許多不同大小的液滴冷凝在冷凝
板上，仔細觀察這些不同大小的液滴可以發現
這些液滴的成長過程和排開方式有些許規律
存在。四種均勻表面冷凝熱傳效率的結果如
(圖 12)，橫軸代表冷卻循環液的流率，從
100~700 ㏄/min 不等，縱軸表示冷凝熱傳量。
不論是何種冷凝板熱傳效率都隨著冷卻循環
液的流率呈正比。比較冷卻液流率 700 ㏄/min
情形下，親水性矽晶圓冷凝板(如圖中的實心
三角型格點)其冷凝熱傳量最大，熱通量達
194313 w/m2；而兩種疏水性材料同屬滴式冷
凝，接觸角相同但熱傳差異大，硫醇改質的冷
凝板(實心圓點)熱通量約 171600 w/m2，OTS 冷
凝板(空心菱形)僅 113200w/m2 兩者差異達
58400w/m2；無氧銅冷凝板(空心方格)熱通量約
154653 w/m2，僅略勝 OTS 冷凝板。 
    一般滴式冷凝的冷凝熱傳效果比膜式冷
凝佳，但本實驗結果顯示親水性矽晶圓冷凝板
的熱通量大於滴式冷凝。其主要原因以下說明: 
根據液滴移動理論【7】，液滴在垂直冷凝板
上的移動與遲滯現象有關，所謂遲滯現象為液
滴置於一傾斜平板上(如圖 13 所示)，α表示
冷凝斜板的傾斜角，液滴受遲滯現象會沾附在
固體表面上，必須增加傾斜角利用重力作用來
驅動液滴。根據 Furmidge 【8】於 1962 年提
出二維的動態液滴遲滯現象關係式，利用積分
的方式得到液滴的質量受重力作用恰克服遲
滯現象的關係式，如下式所示: 
 
( )
( ) ( )
V g  s i n c o s c o s
s i n c o s c o s 4
R A
R A
wρ α γ θ θ
α θ θ
= −
⇒ ∝ − L
 
 
其中ρ表示液滴的密度、V 是液滴的體積、g
是重力常數、α表示冷凝斜板的傾斜角，w 是
二維液滴的直徑，γ是表面張力、θR、θA 分
別表示後退及前進接觸角，式(4)中表示在固
定液滴質量 V g  ρ 下，傾角增加達到某個值
時液滴質量恰好克服遲滯現象開始下滑移
動 ， 並 且 此 傾 角 與 表 面 遲 滯 現 象
( )cos cosR Aθ θ− 成正比。 
其差值即固體表面對液滴的遲滯現象，表示液
滴在垂直紙面的深度。式(4)也可以從另一個
角度討論，也就是在相同的傾角下α=const. 
(本實驗的垂直冷凝板α=90 度)，液滴的質量
與遲滯現象成正比，也就是液滴必須累積質量
至某個程度時其重力恰可克服遲滯現象，液滴
便開始下滑。 
    本實驗使用之親水性冷凝板接觸角約20O， 
疏水性冷凝板接觸角約 105O，在相同的遲滯現
象下二者恰下滑的液滴質量將有相當大差
異。冷凝液滴在矽晶圓上形成液膜而滑動，相
較於疏水性冷凝板上的滑動液珠，液膜的體積
明顯小於液珠的體積，表示同樣在垂直傾斜板
上親水性矽晶圓上的液滴在較小的質量就開
始下滑移動。此外，硫醇冷凝板與 OTS 冷凝板
具有相同的接觸角，但硫醇板上的冷凝液滴在
 6
點尺寸約 0.1mm，能夠驅動的液滴直徑必須大
於某一尺寸，甚至在某個尺寸倍數之上。最佳
化的設計必須建立兩種機制，分別是交界線上
冷凝液滴的流率與親水性流道上的最大排水
流率。二者之間的設計至少需相等才能避免親
水性流道的液膜互相合併，否則變成複合表面
後即失去表面張力驅動液珠的作用。綜合上述
可得以下結論: 
 (一)本實驗在冷凝系統的量測，目前可以量測
熱通量大小，未來將對蒸氣冷凝腔體建立熱對
流系數之量測系統，以作更進一步的研究。 
(二)利用微機電技術嘗試各種表面改質技術，
成功開發出十二烷硫醇之表面改質技術，並應
用在冷凝板上，未來將積極更疏水的改質方法
進行研究。 
(三)設計特殊冷凝板表面，實驗結果顯示
d1=d2=1mm 的梳狀表面冷凝板將利用表面張
力作用可有效提升冷凝熱傳效率，未來將對梳
狀冷凝板作最佳化設計，以達到更好的冷凝熱
傳效果。 
參考文獻  
 
【1】Courtney,W.G.,“Recent Advances in 
Cindensation and Evaporation”ARS 
Journal,June,p751(1961) 
【2】Knudsen,M,“Cosin Law in Kinetic Theory 
of Gases”, Ann. Physik , 48,p1113,(1916) 
【3】Wood,R.W,“Experimental Determination of 
law of Reflexion of Gas 
Molecules”,30,300-304.1915“Condensatio
n and reflection of Gas 
Molecules ”,Phil.Mag.,32,p364(1916) 
【4】Smolik LM, Zdiml t SJ. The di lemma of the 
multicystic dysplastic kid ney. Am J Dis 
Child 1994,140, pp. 925-928 
【5】Hwu,W.H.,Sheu,J.S.,“Adsorption and 
Nucleation of water Vapor on Smooth 
solid substrates”,Journal of Colloid and 
Interface Science, 232.2p303(1988) 
【6】Cassie, A. B. D.and Baxter, S., 1944, 
“Wettability of Porous Surfaces,” 
     Transactions of the Faraday Society, Vol. 
40, pp. 546-551. 
【7】國立成功大學碩士論文,方聰賢,“固體表
面濕潤性與低是冷凝之研究”,民國 85 年
6 月 
【8】Furmidge,C. G. L. 1962 Studies at phase 
interfaces. I. The sliding of liquid drops on 
solid surfaces and a theory for spray 
retention. J. Colloid Sci. 17, 309. 
【9】國立成功大學碩士論文,李象山,“水蒸氣
滴式冷凝之研究”,民國 86 年 6 月 
計畫成果自評 
 
本研究內容與原計畫相符，並達成預期目標，
此研究利用相變化高效率散熱機制，將過熱蒸
氣冷凝成液滴，並建立冷凝液滴快速移動機
制，達到冷凝系統之最佳化設計。成果可應用
於提高冷凝熱傳效率，目前預備在 IEEE NEMS 
2008 研討會及 IEEE Review on Advances in 
Micro, Nano and Molecular Systems 2008 
(SCI indexed)學術期刊上發表。 
 
圖表彙整 
 
圖 1液滴在梯度表面上移動 
 
圖 2 OTS SAM 表面改質示意圖 
 8
 
 
 
(a) 
 
 
 
(b) 
圖9為在不同「梯度方向」長度c之梯度表面(a)
接觸角變化及(b)液滴形狀 
 
 
圖 10 冷凝系統設計圖 
 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
圖 11 液滴冷凝狀態 (a)親水性矽晶圓冷凝板
及(b)疏水性硫醇冷凝板 
 
 
圖 12 四種材料(無氧銅冷凝板、親水性矽晶圓
冷凝板、疏水性 OTS 冷凝板及疏水性硫醇冷凝
板)表面冷凝板之熱傳效率比較 
 
x 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 95－2221－E－006－389 
計畫名稱 表面改質技術於微冷凝晶片之應用發展 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
呂宗行副教授 國立成功大學航空太空工程研究所 
會議時間地點 Jan. 16-19, 2007, Bangkok, Thailand 
會議名稱 The 2nd Annual IEEE International Conference on Nano/Micro Engineered and Molecular Systems (IEEE-NEMS) 
發表論文題目 
1. Numerical Simulation and Optimal Design on a new Dielectrophoretic-based 
Cytosorter 
2. The Study of Flexible Plate Wave Device for Micro Pumping System 
3. Micro Sorters with 3D Focusing and Continuous Sorting 
 
一、參加會議經過 
The 2nd Annual IEEE International Conference on Nano/Micro Engineered and Molecular Systems 
(IEEE-NEMS)為國際頂尖微奈米科技研究發表重要研討會之一,2007 年第二屆研討會在
泰國曼谷舉行，藉由參加今年 IEEE NEMS-2007 會議並發表論文,目的在展示台灣在對微
奈米系統之研究成果，對成功大學在此研究領域國際知名度及參與國際會議指標有極大
助益。 
今年大會安排四場 Plenary 及四場 Invited 演講共有: 
1. Prof. A. PIsano. (UC Berkeley, USA) 
Title: Micro and Nano Technologies for Automation Research 
2. Prof. Satoshi Kawata, (Osaka University, Japan) 
Title: Nao-Photonics 
3. Dr. Don Eigler, (IBM, USA) 
Title: Scanning Tunneling Microscopy. 
4. Dr.: Meyya Meyyappan, (NASA, USA) 
Title: Nanotechnology: Practical Systems and Integration with MEMS 
5. Prof. Michael Stuke, Max (Plank Institue, Germany) 
Title: 3D Nano-Photonics 
 
The Study of Flexible Plate Wave Device for Micro Pumping 
System 
Min-Chien Tsai* , Tzong-Shyng Leu Member IEEE 
 
*Abstract- This paper investigates on micro pumping system, 
flow field generated by a traveling wave boundary layer, which 
model is developed for flexural plate wave (FPW) device. Based 
on numerical method, the solutions only consider long-time 
behavior. Different parameters of frequency, channel height, 
and wave length on the velocity profile and net flow rate   are 
investigated. In this device, the parameters of the solution is 
applied, flow field remains periodic. This research find that in 
all cases, time averaged flow field profiles from the boundary 
layer to the non-slip wall have constant tendency in micro 
channel.  
 
BACKGROUND 
     The flexural plate wave (FPW) device is a 
micro-machined thin film of the piezoelectricity material. This 
device is driven by an external signal to create wave 
propagation, which can pump liquid or air [1]. Based on this 
fluid motion, the phenomenon called acoustic streaming. Figure 
1 shows acoustic streaming generated by the FPW device. 
When a flexural wave propagates in a thin membrane, an 
acoustic field is generated along flexural plate. This acoustic 
field can cause fluid flows near the surface [2]. In this paper, 
main objective is to present numerical simulation which has 
been used to understand the principle of acoustic streaming. 
This numerical simulation of the acoustic streaming is 
performed using the software package of the CFDRC. The 
governing equations for the flow model represent mathematical 
statements of the mass and momentum conservation laws of 
physics for flow. These two laws can be used to develop a set of 
equations (known as the Navier-Stokes equations) for 
CFD-ACE+ to solve numerically. In order to simulate flow 
profile, this paper using two-dimensional model of FPW device, 
and channel length is 300 μm. The model contains a moving 
wall as the bottom flexural plate, a non-slip boundary condition 
as the opposite surface. In the bottom, surface point (P) move 
elliptically in a counterclockwise[3] direction as the traveling 
wave from left to right. Atmospheric pressure boundary 
conditions are used for inlet and outlet. In addition, Influences 
of channel height (h), different frequency (f), and wave length 
(λ) on the velocity profile and net flow rate are investigated. In 
all cases, numerical solution finished transient behavior, when 
the same phase in different periods matched well within 1% 
after the transient has decayed. 
 
                                                 
All authors are with the Department of Aeronautics and Astranautics, 
National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan. 
   *Contacting Author: Min-Chien Tsai is with Department of Aeronautics 
and Astranautics, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan (phone: 
+886 6 2090081; (email:P4894112@ccmail.ncku.edu.tw). 
Author: Tzong-Shyng Leu is with Department of Aeronautics and 
Astranautics, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan (phone: 
+886 6 2757575 ext 63638; fax:+886 6 2389940;                     
email:tsleu@mail.ncku.edu.tw). 
 
CURRENT RESULTS 
In this paper, numerical solution is compared with theoretical 
solution [4] as the benchmark test. This result shows that the 
numerical and theoretical solution matched well within 1% finished 
transient behavior, which manifested the truth of the simulation tool. 
In Figure 2 shows relation between velocity and channel height with 
25 time steps of one period, the flow field goes through a brief 
transient then reaches a steady state with periodic dynamics. Figure 
3 describes the velocity contour for single time step. This simulation 
result, velocity distribution in the micro channel doesn’t the same.  
Figure 4 depicts time average velocity profiles, which normalized by 
maximum velocity and channel height, at the frequency 1 KHz. In 
this result, solid line is profile of laminar Poiseulle flow, if channel 
height is small than 100 μ m, the velocity profile becomes 
parabolic, namely the largest velocity will locate in center of the 
channel. On the other way, when channel height large than 100μm, 
the maximum velocity occurred about 90μm height. Figure 5 shows 
the simulation result for 10 KHz. The result shows velocity profile 
the same as 1 KHz. As regards two results, the velocity profile of the 
different frequency is exactly the same. Figure 6 shows time average 
velocity profiles for different wave length in 10 and 500μm channel 
height. In Figure 6 (a) and (b), velocity profile is normalized. Under 
different wave lengths, these velocity profiles are still the same. 
Figure 7 (a) depicts net flow rate versus channel height, when 
frequency increased, the net flow rate will rise to the maximum and 
reach to a constant. Figure 7 (b) shows net flow rate versus different 
wave lengths, when wave lengths increased, net flow rate will also 
increased. Figure 8 (a), (b) show net flow rate versus different 
amplitudes in different channel heights. For the simulation results, 
when amplitude is increased, the net flow rate increased linear. 
REFERENCES 
[1] C.E., Bradley, R.M., White, “Acoustically Driven Flow in Flexural Plate 
Wave Devices: Theory and Experiment,” Proc. IEEE Ultrasonics Symp. 1994 , 
PP.519-531. 
[2] N. T., Nguyen, R.M., White, “Design and Optimization of an Ultrasonic 
Flexural Plate Wave Micropump Using Numerical Simulation,” Sensors and 
Actuators A, Vol. 77, pp. 229-236, 1999. 
[3] T., Sashida, T., Kenjio, “An Introduction to Ultrasonic Motors,” Clarendon 
Press, Oxford, p.p130, 1993. 
[4] F.M., White, “Viscous Fluid Flow,” MCGraw-Hill, New York, p.p148, 1974. 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. Schematic of wave propagation and acoustic field induce the acoustic 
streaming 
(a)                                (b) 
            Fig. 8 Volume flow rate relation with different wave amplitude: (a) 
channel height is 50 μm, (b) channel height is 500μm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
results of the single-electrode and two-electrode designs. By applying the optimal method, the experiment sampling points can reduce from 465 
(Fig.3) to 50 (Fig.5) and still get a reasonable optimal result. Within the results, the optimal design points and the optimal particle final-deflection 
tendency can be revealed. The optimal design in single-electrode case is (Xf,/L,  Xb/L) = (0.283,0.25), and the optimal design in two-electrode 
case is (L2, L3) = (181,71).  Through optimization methods, the multiphysics numerical simulation becomes a powerful tool.  One can improve 
the design efficiency in many engineering applications. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] W. A. Bonner, H. R. Hulett, R. G. Sweet, “Fluorescence activated cell sorting”, Rev Sci Instrument, 1972, 43:404-409 
[2] P. Telleman, U.D. Larsen, J. Kutter,  P. Friis,  and A. Wolff ,  ”Micro tools for cell handling”,  Proceedings in SPIE conference on microfluidic devices 
and systems, 2000 
[3] Anne Y. Fu, Charles Spence, Axel Scherer, Frances H. Arnold, and Stephen R. Quake, “A microfabricated fluorescene-activated cell sorter”, Nano 
Biotechnology, November 1999, Volume 17, Number 11, pp 1109–1111 
[4] P. Telleman, U. D. Larsen, J. Philip, G. Blankenstein, A. Wolff, “Cell Sorting in Microfluidic Systems”, Proc. Micro Total Analysis Systems’98, Banff, 1998, 
pp39-44 
[5] S. C. Grover, A. G. Skirtach, R. C. Gauthier, C. P. Grover, “Automated single-cell sorting system based on optical trapping”, Journal of Biomedical Optics, 
January, 2001, Volume 6, Issue 1, pp. 14-22 
[6] Aaron T. Ohta, Pei-Yu Chiou, Ming C. Wu, “Dynamic array manipulation of microscopic particles via optoelectronics tweezers”, Hilton 
Head Workshop 2004 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 1. Schematic diagram of the DEP cytosorter with (a) 
one-electrode design, (b) two-electrode with equal spacing and 
length (design 
 
Figure 2 Particle trajectory in particle deflection system when 
Xf/L=0.175 and Xb/L=0.225 
 
Micro Sorters with 3D Focusing and Continuous Sorting 
Tzong-Shyng. Leu* Member IEEE, Hung-Ying Chen, and Fei-Bin Hsiao 
 
*Abstract- Dielectrophoretic (DEP) flow sorters for continuously selecting particles (cells) of interest from a mixture of many 
samples were designed and studied.  DEP forces created by non-uniform electric fields are used as confining forces to 
three-dimensionally focus bio-particles into a single particle stream, as well as deflection forces to continuously sort the 
bio-particles in the micro sorter.    The key mechanism of the flow sorters that can focus and sort particles against fluid 
flows is demonstrated numerically and experimentally. 
BACKGROUND 
    It has been widely acknowledged that the effective sorting in many microfluidic devices provided many advantages over the 
conventional fluorescent activated cell sorting (FACS), such as low consumption of samples without sacrificing sensitivity, closed 
system reducing the potential biohazard risks and preventing cross-contamination, and feasibility of making portable and disposable 
devices.  Over the years, the scientists have developed many biological particle handling microfluidic devices. For example, there 
are micro fluorescence-activated cell sorting (μFACS) [1], magnetic-activated cell separation (μMACS) [2], automated single-cell 
sorting using dual-beam optical trapping [3], and optoelectronic tweezers for particle manipulation [4].  Many microfluidic devices 
mentioned above employ the so-called “hydrodynamic focusing” mechanism in the micro-channel flow. For hydrodynamic focusing 
devices, they usually have two-dimensional structures with two sheath flow and one sample flow inlets.  However, these designs 
usually focus particles two-dimensionally.  Therefore, three-dimensional sheath flow type [5] micro-channels were also reported.  
But these multi-inlets and multi-pumps often increase the complexity and the cost of the system.    
In this paper, an on-chip particle sorter using dielectrophoresis (DEP) is studied.  The DEP sorting approach is particularly suitable 
for operating at the micrometer scale and allows the analyzing and discrimination of cells of interest.  Due to differences in their 
complex dielectric properties and dimensions, DEP forces of different magnitudes acting on the cells can be obtained, thus deflected 
are the cells of interest along a pre-determined trajectory.  This technique is also label-free, i.e., a unique advantage that cells are 
unaltered during the measurement process. The instrument can easily discriminate sub-micrometer size differences in biological 
particle diameters. 
 
CURRENT RESULTS 
Fig. 1 shows the schematic diagram of the DEP flow sorter.  The DEP micro sorter has a micro channel with width 735μm and 
height 200μm. The unique features of DEP electrodes in the flow sorter can be divided into 3D focusing section and sorting channel 
section from upstream to downstream.  3D focusing section utilizes two pairs of convergent electrodes with contraction angle θ and 
separation distance changing from d1=535μm to d2=30μm in a micro channel.  The biological particle solution with uniform inlet 
velocity U0 is injected into the micro sorter.  It has been verified that the flow reaches a fully developed velocity profile before it 
enters the contraction electrode section.  Two pairs of electrodes are used to generate non-uniform electric fields when applying AC 
                                                 
    All authors are with the Department of Aeronautics and Astranautics, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan. 
   *Contacting Author: Tzong-Shyng Leu is with Department of Aeronautics and Astranautics, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan 
(phone: +886 6 2757575 ext 63638; fax:+886 6 2389940;                     email:tsleu@mail.ncku.edu.tw). 
[11] K. Tashoro, T. Sekiguchi, S. Shoji, T. Funatsu, W. Masumoto, H. Sato: Design and Simulation of Particles and Biomolecules 
Handling Micro Flow Cells with Tree-dimensional Sheath Flow, Proc. Micro Total Analysis Systems (2000) 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 1. Schematic diagram of the 3D focusing and continuous DEP 
micro sorter when (a) the average velocity is smaller than the 
trespassing velocity U0 < U0t and (b) the inlet velocity is increased 
beyond the trespassing velocity, U0 > U0t. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c)  
Fig. 2 (a) The chip fabrication processes (b) 3D sketch and (c) 
photograph of the DEP flow sorter chip after package 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
