computable. A notable example is the set 
of initial markings of a Petri net from 
which a designated final marking is 
coverable. More recent work 
demonstrated decidability to compute, 
from a given upward-closed set of final 
states, the set of states that are backward 
reachable from the final states.  
Given the importance of upward- 
closed sets, it is of interest theoretically 
and practically to be able to characterize 
the class of upward-closed sets for which 
their minimal elements are computable. 
Along this line of research, Valk and 
Jantzen presented a sufficient and 
necessary condition under which the set 
of minimal elements of an upward- 
closed set is guaranteed to be effectively 
computable. Supposed U  is an upward 
-closed set over k`  and ω  is a 
symbol representing something being 
arbitrarily large. Valk and Jantzen hown 
that the set of minimal elements of U  
is effectively computable iff the question 
‘ ( ) ?reg v U∩ ≠∅ ’ is decidable for every 
( { })kv ω∈ ∪` , where ( ) { |reg v x x= ∈  
, }k x v≤` . However, there is no 
complexity bounds for the sizes of the 
minimal elements in the result of Valk 
and Jantezen. As knowing the size of 
minimal elements might turn out to be 
handy in many cases, the following 
question arises naturally. If more is 
known about the query ‘ ( )reg v U∩ ≠∅    
? ‘, could the size of the minimal 
elements be measured? In fact, 
answering the question in the affirmative 
is the main contribution of our work. 
 
三、計畫方法 
It is well known that every 
upward-closed set over k`  has a finite 
number of minimal elements. However, 
such a finite set may not be effectively 
computable in general. In an article by 
Valk and Jantzen, the following result 
was proven which suggests a sufficient 
and necessary condition under which the 
set of minimal elements of an 
upward-closed set is effectively 
computable: 
Theorem 1. For each upward-closed set 
( )kK ⊆` , min(K) is effectively 
computable iff for every kv ω∈` , the 
problem ‘ ( ) ?reg v U∩ ≠∅ ’ is decidable. 
(Recall that ( ) { | , }kreg v x x x v= ∈ ≤` ) 
    In what follows, we show that for 
every kv ω∈` , should we be able to 
compute the size of a witness for 
( )reg v U∩ ≠∅  (if one exists), then an 
upper bound can be placed on the size of 
all minimal elements. 
Theorem 2. Given an upward-closed set 
( )kU ⊆` , if for every kv ω∈` , a witness 
ˆ kw∈`  for every ‘ ( )reg v U∩ ≠∅ ’ (if 
one exists) can be computed with 
(i) wˆ b≤ , for some b∈`  when 
( , , )v ω ω= … , 
(ii) ˆ ( )w f v≤  when ( , , )v ω ω≠ … , 
for some monotone function f, then 
( 1)( ) ( )kmin U f b−≤ . 
     We examine some upward-closed 
