 1
中文摘要 
 
自從美國航空公司利用營收管理(revenue management)成功提高營收後，營收管理於
航空運輸業已是十分普及的技術。基於現今航空軸輻網路營運型態，營收管理研究重心
亦由當初單一航段之問題轉向網路型態之問題。目前航空網路主要以競價法(bid price 
control)來進行機位之控管，過去研究多利用數學規劃模式中限制式之對偶關係計算競價
值。然而，此方式的運算較為繁瑣，且不管在方法理論及實務運用上，均存在著相當的
限制。因此本研究以單一航段問題中，可求出最佳控管機制之動態規劃模式為基礎，建
立一函數來近似動態規劃模式中之收益函數，藉以產生航空網路問題的機位控管決策。
之後，再發展以抽樣方式產生近似收益函數的方法，延伸此基本解題概念至多航段模
式。在數值測試範例中發現，本研究所發展的方法有效可行，且結果相當貼近最佳解。
預期本研究未來可為網路營收管理問題帶來新的求解概念，且能提供比目前競價法更有
效率產生的機位控管決策方法。 
 
關鍵詞：營收管理、競價法、動態規劃、機位控管決策 
 
Abstract 
 
Since American Airlines successfully applied revenue management (RM) to raise its 
revenue, RM has become a common technique in the airline industry. Due to the current 
hub-and-spoke operation, the focus of the RM research has shifted from the traditional 
single-leg problem to the network-type problem. It was noticed that, though a mainstream 
approach for the network RM problem, the bid price control is ill with complicated procedure 
and heavy computational load. In addition, there are considerable limitations for this approach 
in terms of both methodological theory and practical application. Based on the dynamic 
programming (DP) approach, which generates the optimal control policy for the single-leg 
RM problem, this study develops a method that can generate a suitable seat control policy by 
approximating the expected revenue function in the DP model. In order deal with the RM 
problem under the network context, this study adopts the concept of sampling to generate the 
approximation function. Based on the result in the numerical experiment, the validity and 
effectiveness of the developed method is verified as the generated solution is very close to the 
optimal solution. It is believed that this study should serve as an excellent alternative for the 
current bid price control and provide an inspiring concept for other network-related RM 
problems. 
 
Keywords: Revenue Management, Bid Price Control, Dynamic Programming, Seat Control 
Policy 
 
一、前言 
 
美國於 1979 年解除航空管制，自此航空公司可自由進出市場並彈性訂定機票票價。
在競爭劇烈的航空市場中，航空公司必須積極分析航班需求並對機上座位分配實行有效
控管，才能提高收益。這些增加獲利的技巧稱為營收管理(Revenue Management, RM)技
術。隨著航空公司輻軸(hub-and-spoke)型態的發展，營收管理問題的已由傳統的單一航
段問題，演變到以網路問題為重點的階段。然而，過去在處理網路營收管理的幾個方法
都有明顯的缺點，也因此如何處理網路內各起訖點與艙位控管間複雜的關係，一直是營
收管理重要的研究課題。 
 
 3
時的運算也難以負荷。由此可知，動態規劃模式無法解決規模太大的問題。因此，後續
研究 Williamson (1992)提出競價法(Bid price control, BPC)，將每個航段 i 設定其競價值
),( xtiμ ，若 ODF j 之費率 jF 大於航段加總之競價值，如公式(3)，則接受訂位。 
∑
=
≥
ji
ij tF
S
x),(μ  (3) 
至於競價值之設定，Williamson (1992)首先建立一個確定性的線性規劃模式
(Deterministic Linear Program, DLP)來估算。後續Talluri & van Ryzin (1999)、De Boer et al. 
(2002)、Bertsimas & Popescu (2003)、Bertsimas & De Boer (2005)都對競價法提出若干改
良。然而，但是上述改良，基本上仍只是競價值的不同種估計方式，未必等於最佳的競
價值(optimal bid price)。而且，相關研究透過分析也發現(Talluri & van Ryzin, 1998)，即
使求出最佳的競價值，基於競價法先天上之限制，也可能無法達到極大化期望收益之最
佳控管(optimal control)。 
此外更重要的是，所求的競價值係是在某一時段所對應 ODF 需求分佈，就特定之
剩下機位數所適用之競價值。考量各個時段所剩機位幾乎有無限多種可能之情形，競價
值是不可能全部預先求出來的。因此，實務在運用上必須搭配實際訂位作業之進行，修
正競價值。然而，考量航空公司實際作業情況，很難做到線上即時修正，通常只能利用
午夜時段中斷訂位作業，更新剩下機位數與需求並重新計算競價值，因而耗費許多時間
及資源，且可能會因為時間落差而造成的控管決策失誤。 
 
四、研究方法 
 
為克服上述競價法的缺失，本研究直接對公式(2)和(3)中之決策法則，以一適當函
數來近似收益函數 )(xtV ，來直接產生機位控管之決策。本研究首先以單一航段為範例
進行模式構建、演算法及其數值測試範例，最後延伸至多航段問題並發展隨機抽樣模式
及方法。 
如前述當航空網路規模越大、航段愈多時，動態規劃模型中的狀態變數 x(代表各航
段剩餘機位)之維度將變得很大。為減少運算負荷，本研究發展隨機抽樣模式，對 x 所
有可能之值以均勻的方式(uniform)隨機進行抽樣，選出 H 組數值，透過動態規劃加以運
算，並利用軟體 Matlab 的函數配適功能求出近似收益函數來進行機位控管。由於只以
樣本數 H 組 x 資料量來來產生近似收益函數，本研究另稱此隨機抽樣模型之近似收益函
數為 )(ˆ xtf ，而進行控管時之相關的收益函數為 )(xtW ，公式(4)到(5)說明演算的規則。 
⎪⎩
⎪⎨
⎧ >>+= ∑=+
otherwise0
0 0,for )()(ˆ)( 11
h
J
j
ht
j
t
j
h
t
t
oh
t
tGPfPW xxxx  (4) 
where HhPP
J
j
t
j
t  , ,1for     ,10 K=−= ∑  
⎪⎩
⎪⎨⎧ >−+−+=
otherwise)(ˆ
)(ˆ)(ˆ if)(ˆ)(
h
t
h
t
jh
tj
jh
tjht
j f
ffFfFG
x
xSxSxx  (5) 
Hh  , ,1for K=   
 
五、結果與討論 
 
為進行相關的數值試驗，以測試近似函數進行控管的適當性，本研究考量小規模的
多航段航空網路問題，利用動態規劃模式來求取各種控管決策的期望收益。首先，若依
附件一：出席國際會議研究心得報告 
計畫編號：95-2221-E-009-319- 
計畫名稱：求解航空網路營收管理問題－以動態規劃模型之期望收益函數估計法 
會議名稱：The 2nd International Conference on Transportation Logistics (T-LOG 2007) 
會議概況：The International Conference on Transportation Logistics 係由新加坡國立新加坡
大學(National University of Singapore)、中國北京清華大學(Tsinghua University)及日本東
京大學(University of Tokyo)所共同發起之國際會議，宗旨在促進運輸與物流領域的學術
研究，以及相關實務應用之發展。2005 年 7 月首次在新加坡舉行，第二次會議於 2007
年 7月 4日至 6日在中國深圳清華大學深圳校區的現代物流研究中心(Research Center for 
Modern Logistics)舉辦。會議包含以運輸(Transportation)、物流(Logistics)、供應鏈管理
(Supply Chain Management)為主的各項研究課題。 
 
目的：本會議第二次召開，延續第一次成功的經驗，邀請了包含美國Georgia Institute of 
Technology (ISyE Chaired Professor in Transportation and Logistics)的Prof. Chelsea C. 
White III以及加拿大University of Montreal (Director, ITS Laboratory, Centre for Research 
on Transportation)的Prof. Teodor G.. Crainic等國際知名的運輸物流領域重量級學者發表
演說，同時也吸引許多亞太地區國家以外之歐美研究人員參加。參與此次會議在因此希
望藉由論文之發表，和與會者討論，能夠獲得回饋意見及改進方向，使得本篇論文能更
加完善，以利後續研究工作之延伸。同時，另外也希望經由與各國學者的交流和討論，
獲取不同運輸領域的新知識。 
 
過程：於2007年7月4日搭乘華航班機經香港轉乘渡輪至中國深圳，個人論文係發表於
Technical Session 1-2 (主題：Transportation Ⅱ)，其間也參與了多場Technical Session (主
要為Supply Chain Management相關主題)，並於7月5日歸國。 
 
會議心得與建議：個人所發表之論文「Determining the User Equilibrium Flow of the Traffic 
Assignment Problem by Circuit Simulation」，主要在著眼於交通指派問題是運輸規劃的一
項重要工作，而使用者均衡是其中最基礎的模式。在使用者均衡的條件下，旅行者選擇
對自身而言成本最低的路徑，而在所形成的均衡路網中，任何一起訖點對所使用路徑的
旅行成本皆相同。使用者均衡流量與一般電路有許多相似的特性。尤其，假如電流值被
視為交通流量，則電壓值則可被比擬為旅行成本。基於一原始的基本構想「讓電子來模
擬旅行者」，發展了一演算法，藉由相關電路問題的遞回運算來求解交通指派問題，終
極的目標則在積體電路內構建一系統來模擬實際的大型交通路網。由於本研究之構想與
傳統之方法有明顯的差異，多位與會人員均透過會議正式與非正式的場合和個人交換了
許多心得和意見，對於本研究後續的發展有相當的幫助。有關基於參與此次會議之心得
所產生的建議包含以下幾項： 
一、 個人認為國內之研究與許多國際間之研究，在水準上應無極大的差距，但與會者
的簡報技巧及溝通能力較為不足，尤其是英文能力普遍較無法應付國際會議的場
合。解決之道，可考慮先在國內透過課程或者 Workshop 來培養相關的能力。此
外，多多參予國際會議仍是提升能力的必要途徑。 
二、 參與國際會議，不僅可以提升國際交流、獲得諸多寶貴經驗，亦得以使國外研究
人員瞭解我國之研究能力，以及透過個案性研究瞭解我國特殊的研究議題。因
DETERMINING THE USER EQUILIBRIUM FLOW OF THE TRAFFIC 
ASSIGNMENT PROBLEM BY CIRCUIT SIMULATION 
 
Kuancheng HUANG Chao-Che CHENG 
Assistant Professor Research Associate 
Dept. of Transportation Technology Dept. of Transportation Technology 
and Management and Management 
National Chiao Tung University National Chiao Tung University 
No. 1001, Ta Hsueh Road, Hsinchu City No. 1001, Ta Hsueh Road, Hsinchu City 
300 Taiwan 300 Taiwan 
Fax: 886-3-5720844 Fax: 886-3-5720844 
E-mail: kchuang@cc.nctu.edu.tw E-mail: tiriachisa@yahoo.com.tw 
 
Tzu-Chung CHUANG 
Research Associate 
Dept. of Transportation Technology 
and Management 
National Chiao Tung University 
No. 1001, Ta Hsueh Road, Hsinchu City 
300 Taiwan 
Fax: 886-3-5720844 
E-mail: den681125@yahoo.com.tw 
 
Abstract: A key process in transportation planning, the traffic assignment problem (TAP) 
determines the route choice of travelers, given their origins and destinations. Among the 
various assumptions about route choice behavior, the user equilibrium (UE) condition is the 
most fundamental model. Under such as an assumption, each traveler chooses the route to 
minimize his or her associated travel time, and the travel time is identical for each 
origin-destination pair, regardless of the routes chosen by travelers. The resulting user 
equilibrium flow bears significant resemblance to an electronic circuit. In particular, if the 
electrical current is viewed as the traffic volume, the voltage drop can be thought as the travel 
time. Based on the fundamental idea “let electrons simulate travelers,” this study develops a 
solution algorithm for TAP by iteratively solving the associated problems by circuit 
simulation. Numerical experiments are performed to illustrate and test the key techniques 
used in developing the solution algorithm. The results show that the circuit simulation 
approach can be used as the building block to achieve the ultimate goal, which is to build a 
system in an integrated circuit (IC) for simulating actual traffic networks. 
 
Key Words: traffic assignment problem, user equilibrium, circuit simulation 
 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
The traffic assignment problem (TAP) is a key process for transportation planning that 
determines the route choice of travelers and the resulting traffic flows of a network system, 
given their origins and destinations. Among the various assumptions about route choice 
behavior, the user equilibrium (UE) condition is the most fundamental model. Under such as 
an assumption, each traveler chooses the route to minimize his or her associated travel time, 
and a stable situation is reached when no traveler can improve the travel time by unilaterally 
 
Figure 1. Illustrative Network of One OD Pair and Two Links 
 
In addition to travel time, the path choice behavior of travelers can depend on some other 
factors, such as cost and comfort. However, in this study, it is assumed that travelers only care 
about travel time, which is a function of traffic flow. (Nonetheless, this function may be 
referred to as the cost function.) Suppose the travel time of link i (i=1, 2) in above example is 
denoted by ti, and the link flow is denoted by xi. Due to the effect of congestion, the relation 
between travel time and traffic flow can generally be illustrated by the curves in Figure 2(a). 
If the demand for the only OD pair is q, the following equations should hold: x1+x2=q and 
t1=t2. Based on these equations, only Link 2 is used if the demand is less than q’, and beyond 
this point both links are used, as shown in Figure (b). In addition, the travel time for this OD 
pair is as the third curve in the figure. This phenomenon is referred to as the Wardrop 
Condition (Wardrop, 1952). 
 
 
Figure 2. Link and OD Travel Time of the Illustrative Example 
 
2.2 Analogy between electronic circuit and user equilibrium flow 
 
A traffic network bears a significant resemblance to an electronic circuit. In addition to the 
similar topological feature, the flow conservation concept is applicable to both cases. 
Especially under the user equilibrium condition, the traffic flow and travel time of a traffic 
network can be modeled by the electrical current and voltage drop of an electronic circuit. 
The analogy is summarized as follows: 
• For a circuit with simple parallel connection, the current is distributed among the 
parallel links, and the voltage between the source and the ground is a fixed value, 
which is similar to the identical travel time under the user equilibrium condition, as 
illustrated in Figure 1. 
• For a general circuit with parallel and series connection, flow conservation holds for 
each node. In addition, the voltage between the starting node and the ending node of a 
path is the sum of the voltage drops of the links along that path. Besides, the voltage 
difference between any two nodes is a fixed value for any electronic circuit. From the 
perspective of traffic networks, the path travel time is similar to the sum of the link 
travel times. This is especially true under the user equilibrium condition, where the 
travel time between any OD is identical and equal to the travel time for the paths used 
by travelers. 
path problem for each OD pair is solved. The circuit simulation algorithm designed in this 
study shares the same structure of the FWA, but the decomposed problem is significantly 
different from the shortest path problem. The steps of the FWA can be summarized as follows: 
 
Step 0: Initialization. Perform the all-or-nothing assignment based on 
att aa ∀=  ),0( and determine the flow of all links. Set counter n=1. 
Step 1: Update. Set axtt naa
n
a ∀=  ),( . 
Step 2: Direction finding. Perform all-or-nothing assignment for each OD pair based 
on the fixed link travel time ( nat ) and determine the resulting link flows of the 
network ),( ay na ∀  after solving the sub-problems for all OD pairs. 
Step 3: Line search. Find the step size nα  that solves 
ωωα
α
∑ ∫ −+≤≤ a
xyx
a
n
a
n
a
n
a
dt
)(
010
)(  min  
Step 4: Move. Set axyxx na
n
a
nn
a
n
a ∀−+=+  ),(1 α . 
Step 5: Convergence test. If a convergence criterion is met, stop and set the solution as 
the current link flows, x; otherwise, set n=n+1 and go to step 1. 
 
It has been estimated that 90% of the computation effort of FWA is consumed in solving the 
shortest path problems for the all-or-nothing assignment in Step 2 (Patriksson, 1994, p. 100). 
Once the problem size increases, the FWA become inefficient as the size of the shortest path 
problems to be solved is dramatically increased. Instead of solving the shortest path problems, 
the circuit simulation algorithm of this study measures the electrical currents and voltages to 
derive the related travel times. As measurement is not very sensitive to problem size, the 
circuit simulation algorithm is by nature more suitable for large-scale problems. 
 
Several researchers in the past have attempted to solve the TAP by the approaches based on 
electronic circuit modeling. Sasaki and Inouye (1974) applied Ohm’s Law to solve a traffic 
assignment problem, which takes into account the node passing time, based on the analogy of 
voltage-cost and current-flow. However, their work did not discuss the non-linear cost 
functions for the links. Wang and Zhang (2005) formulated a system of non-linear equations 
based on the Kirchhoff Current Law and the Kirchhoff Voltage Law to represent the TAP 
under the UE condition. The resulting non-linear optimization problem was solved by a soft 
package MATLAB, and the result was compared with the solution generated by incremental 
assignment. Although there exists a systematic way in the circuit theory to derive the 
independent equations based on the topology of any electronic circuit, it can be quite a 
challenge to follow Wang and Zhang’s approach to handle a large network. Besides, the 
non-linearity of the cost functions in their work was handled by a software package, not by 
the solution algorithm itself. It is not sure whether the associated non-linear optimization 
problem for a large network can be accurately and efficiently solved by the software package. 
 
Cho et al. (2006) modeled the traffic network with non-linear cost functions by constructing a 
corresponding electronic circuit. The non-linearity of the link cost functions is modeled by 
piece-wise linear approximation achieved by resistors, diodes, and constant voltage sources. 
Once the circuit is set, the solution (the electrical current of the network system) can be 
derived simply by turning on the constant current source, which represents the OD traffic 
demand. Their work is a big step for the idea of solving the TAP by circuit simulation, but 
there remain some difficulties for solving the problem for a real network. First, the example in 
their work is a small single-OD problem, and the question of how to construct the 
or the ratio of voltage to current must be a constant. However, the link cost functions of the 
traffic network possesses significant non-linearity. In SODACS, the difference between them 
can first be identified in Step 2. Then, in step 3, the resistance is adjusted accordingly, so that 
the derived current and voltage with a linear relation can, through iteration, approximate the 
traffic flow and travel time with a non-linear relation. In order to illustrate and test SODACS, 
a small numerical experiment is performed as follows: 
 
Example 1 (Single OD Pair) 
Figure 3 shows a single-OD two-link problem, which is based on the small illustrative 
network in Figure 1. In particular, the travel time functions of the links and the OD trip 
demand are specified in the figure.  
 
 
Figure 3. Single-OD Two-Link Numerical Example 
 
For this numerical example, the steps of the SODACS are executed and the result for the first 
iteration is summarized as follows: 
 
Step 0: The corresponding circuit for simulation is as shown in Figure 4. Initially, the 
resistance of both resistors is set as 10 =aR (for a = 1, 2), and the DC current 
source is set as 20 amps. Let n=1. 
 
 
Figure 4. Simulation Circuit for Example 1 
 
Step 1: Turn on the DC current source and measure the current ian for the resistors, 
which are supposed to be i1=i2=10. 
Step 2: Let xan = ian. Compute the travel time based on the function ta(xan), and get 
t1=120 and t2=210. Set the link voltage equal to the link travel time, v1=120 
and v2=210. (This voltage is different from the actual voltage in the circuit, 
which is 10 volts for both resistors.) 
Step 3: Determine the new resistance for each resistor by Ohm’s Law, Ran+1 = van/ian. 
Thus, R11=12, and R21=21. 
Step 4: Based on the current link flows, x1, compute the objective function value, 
which is 1300. This is obviously far away from the optimal solution. Set n=2, 
and go to Step 1 with the updated resistance determined in Step 3. 
 
OD Trip 
Demand = 20 
 
Step 0: Initialization. Perform the all-or-nothing assignment based on att aa ∀=  ),0(  
and determine the flow for all links. Set counter n=1. 
Step 1: Modify Link Cost. In the sub-problem for each OD pair r-s, set the modified 
cost function of link a as )))((')(),0(max()( ,
n
rsa
n
a
n
aaa xxtxttu −+= ωω , 
where n rsax ,  is the flow on link a from OD pair r-s. 
Step 2: Direction finding. For the sub-problem of each OD pair, execute the SODACS 
based on the modified link costs aua ∀),(ω . Determine the resulting link 
flows of the network ),( ay na ∀  after solving the sub-problems for all OD 
pairs. 
Step 3: Line search. Find the step size nα  that solves 
ωωα
α
∑ ∫ −+≤≤ a
xyx
a
n
a
n
a
n
a
dt
)(
010
)(  min . 
Step 4: Move. Set axyxx na
n
a
nn
a
n
a ∀−+=+  ),(1 α  
Step 5: Convergence test. If a convergence criterion is met, stop and set the solution as 
the current link flows, x; otherwise, set n:=n+1 and go to step 1. 
 
Based on the above summary, the major difference between FWA and MODACS are Step 1 
and Step 2. For FWA, the link cost is fixed to a constant based on the link flows of the past 
iteration, and an all-or-nothing assignment is performed by solving the shortest path problem. 
On the other hand, for the MODACS, the link cost function is modified by introducing its 
first-order approximation based on the flows of the past iteration. Besides, the SODACS is 
applied to determine the equilibrium flow with respect to the modified cost functions. This 
modification shares some similarity with the regularized Frank-Wolfe Algorithm (Migdals, 
1993), in which, by introducing a regularization function, a non-linear objective function 
replaces the linear objective function in the shortest path problem for FWA. The major 
advantage of the MODACS is to avoid the solution on the boundary of the feasible region as 
generated by FWA. The comparison between MODACS and FWA is summarized in Table 1. 
 
Table 1. Comparison between FWA and MODACS 
 FWA MODACS 
Link cost 
approximation Constant, )(
n
aa
n
a xtt =  First-order approximation )))((')(),0(max()( ,n rsananaaa xxtxttu −+= ωω
Sub-problem 
type Shortest Path Problem User Equilibrium (solved by SODACS) 
Objective of 
sub-problem Linear (fixed link cost) 
Non-linear (sum of cost function integral, 
UE formulation) 
Solution 
characteristic 
Boundary solution (by 
all-or-nothing assignment) Likely to be closer to the optimal solution 
 
In order to test the applicability and efficiency of the circuit simulation approach for TAP, a 
test problem of four OD pairs and 29 links (Florian, 1984, p. 273-274) is solved by the 
MODACS. SPICE, a general-purpose circuit simulation software program, is used to solve 
the electronic circuit problem in Step 1 of the SODACS to determine the electrical current of 
the links. The network of the example and the OD trip demand are shown in Figure 6, and the 
link cost functions are listed in Table 2. 
Table 4. Link Flow and Travel Time by MODACS after 10 Iterations in Example 2 
a xa ta a xa ta 
1 50.75 10.64 16 20.04 17.11
2 9.26 4.00 17 19.98 16.95
3 40.98 86.58 18 20.04 17.11
4 79.02 79.87 19 20.04 17.11
5 30.42 41.54 20 31.77 97.72
6 30.65 42.72 21 28.20 62.92
7 30.65 42.72 22 31.82 98.21
8 29.44 49.05 23 28.20 62.91
9 29.42 48.95 24 31.82 98.21
10 29.42 48.95 25 28.20 62.91
11 20.01 17.02 26 59.25 6.57
12 19.93 16.83 27 36.15 1.66
13 19.93 16.38 28 30.75 43.22
14 19.98 16.95 29 53.85 35.53
15 20.04 17.11 Objective Function = 11003
 
In order to further examine the solution algorithm, the paths for a particular OD pair (Node 2 
to Node 3) are enumerated, and the path travel time for the solution derived by MODACS 
after 50 iterations are listed in Table 5. As shown in the table, the travel times for all 12 paths 
are very close, showing that the solution is very close to the user equilibrium condition. 
 
Table 5. Illustration of User Equilibrium Condition in Example 2 
Path (links included) Travel Time Path (links included) Travel Time 
3-5-11-20-26 249.43 4-8-11-20-26 250.23 
3-6-14-20-26 250.53 4-9-14-20-26 250.06 
3-7-17-20-26 250.53 4-10-17-20-26 252.06 
3-5-11-21-28 251.28 4-8-11-21-28 252.09 
3-6-15-23-28 252.52 4-9-15-23-28 252.05 
3-7-19-25-28 252.52 4-10-19-25-28 252.05 
 
 
5. CONCLUSIONS 
 
User equilibrium condition is the most fundamental model for traffic assignment. Under such 
as an assumption, each traveler chooses the route to minimize his or her associated cost, and 
no traveler can improve the travel time by unilaterally changing routes, making the OD travel 
time identical regardless of the paths chosen.  
 
The user equilibrium flow bears significant resemblance to an electronic circuit. In particular, 
if the electrical current is viewed as the traffic volume, the voltage drop can be thought of as 
the travel time or cost. Based on the fundamental idea of “let electrons simulate travelers,” 
this study developed a solution algorithm (MODACS) to determine the UE flow by 
simulating the traffic network with electronic circuits.  
 
REFERENCES 
 
Bell, M.G.H. and Iida, Y. (1997) Transportation Network Analysis. John Wiley & Sons, New 
York, the U.S.A. 
 
Cho, H., Hwang, M., Huang, H., and Chen, W. (2006) A Nonlinear Cost Function 
Formulation for Electrical Circuit Simulation of Traffic Assignment. WSEAS Transactions on 
Electronics (accepted, to appear). 
 
Florian, M. (1984) Transportation Planning Models. North-Holland, New York, the U.S.A. 
 
Fukushima, M. (1984) A Modified Frank-Wolfe Algorithm for Solving the Traffic 
Assignment Problem. Transportation Research Part B, Vol. 18, No. 2, pp. 169-177. 
 
Migdalas, A. (1993) A regularization of the Frank-Wolfe method and unification of certain 
nonlinear programming method. Mathematical Programming, Vol. 65, pp. 311-345. 
 
Patriksson, M. (1994) The Traffic Assignment Problem Models and Methods. VSP, Utrecht, 
the Netherlands. 
 
Sasaki, T. and Inouye, H. (1974) Traffic Assignment by Analogy to Electric Circuit. 
Proceeding of the 6th International Symposium on Transportation and Traffic Theory, pp. 
495-515. 
 
Sheffi, Y. (1985) Urban transportation networks. Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliffs, New 
Jersey, the U.S.A. 
 
Wang, D.H. and Zhang, H.X. (2005) New traffic assignment method on circuit theory for 
urban planning. Journal of urban planning and development, Vol. 131, pp.30-38. 
 
Wardrop, J.G.. (1952) Some theoretical aspects of road traffic research, Proceedings of the 
Institute of the Civil Engineers, Part II, pp. 325-378. 
附件二：可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□可申請專利  ■可技術移轉                                      日期：96 年 10 月 31 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：求解航空網路營收管理問題－以動態規劃模型之期望收
益函數估計法 
計畫主持人：黃寬丞         
計畫編號：95-2221-E-009-319-   學門領域：交通運輸 
技術/創作名稱 航空網路機位控管決策核心演算法 
發明人/創作人 黃寬丞 
中文：航空公司的機位控管在網路的架構下是一個相當困難的管理
決策問題，因為各個航段上剩餘的機位數和訂位需求間的關係相當
複雜。尤其，訂位需求有不同的起訖點對，有不同的費率，也通常
和時間有關。過去常用的競價法控管方式，既不精確，也需要常常
更新，造成運算上的負荷和作業的中斷。相對的，本研究所發展的
方法求解速度較快且較容易，較適合處理網路營收管理問題。 
技術說明 英文：Airline seat control is a difficult problem under the network RM
context, as the relation between the available seats on all legs and the 
time-dependent booking requests for multiple OD pairs with multiple 
fares is very complicated. The popular bid price control is not accurate 
and needs frequent update, involving significant computational load 
and interruption of operation. The technique developed in this project 
is more suitable (faster and simpler) for the network RM problem. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
航空公司之訂位決策系統 
技術特點 
可事先產生所有情況的機位控管決策（不像目前常用的競價法，因
須常常更新造成運算上的負荷和作業的中斷。） 
推廣及運用的價值 
航空公司若有足夠的需求資料以產生本研究模式中的訂位需求機
率，則本研究所發展之控管決策應該有很高的應用價值。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位研
發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 - 1 -
供給量開始。論文發表過程中，得到不少與會人員的回饋，包含多項問題之澄清，未來研
究方向之討論，對於後續論文的修正有相當大的幫助。除此之外，也對本屆研討會主題：「準
備好運輸領域的永續經營」，有初步的瞭解，由於近年來環保意識抬頭，京都協議書的簽訂，
也造成世界各國越來越重視永續經營這個概念。因為運輸行為所造成的能源消耗，對環境
的衝擊等等，都會對永續經營 
產生廣泛的影響，為了達到東亞地區運輸領域永續經營的目標，長遠的展望與國際間互動
是必須的。 
 
建議：事實上，個人認為國內之研究與許多國際間之研究，在水準上應無極大的差距。若
能積極參與國際會議，不僅可以提升國際交流獲得需多寶貴之經驗，亦得以使國外研究人
員瞭解我國之研究能力，應該有相當之功效，值得國內學術界繼續努力。另外，為培養國
內研究研究生的國際觀以及學術交流能力，建議國內相關政府機關增加學生出國的補助。
目前，除國科會計畫內的博士生可以獲得補助，另外也開始補助碩士生出國，這是很好的
開始，也希望可以將補助的額度與名額增加。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 - 3 -
is affected by many factors, which are uncertain by nature and cannot be determined in advance.  
Moreover, the problem of denied boarding caused by supply uncertainty becomes a critical issue 
in the decision process of airlines. 
 
This study defines a single-leg air cargo RM problem, which take into account the supply 
uncertainty and the incurred penalty for denied boarding.  The problem is tackled by a dynamic 
programming (DP) model, which comprises the booking period as the stage and the available 
cargo space (in terms of tons) as the state.  Numerical experiments are performed to verify the 
model and to examine the critical factors related.  Though market segmentation and price 
discrimination are not common in the air cargo industry, the test problems of the numerical 
experiment are designed based on the actual operational data of a Taiwanese international airline.  
The results are helpful for the airlines to understand the special features of the air cargo industry 
and their impacts in terms of revenue management. 
 
This paper is organized as follows: in the next chapter, problem backgrounds are elaborated, and 
related previous researches are reviewed.  In addition to problem definition, the dynamic 
programming model is developed in the third chapter.  The numerical experiment together with 
the results of the sensitivity analysis are described in the fourth chapter.  Finally, the findings of 
this study are concluded in the fifth chapter. 
 
 
2. PROBLEM BACKGROUNDS AND PRIOR RESEARCHES 
 
The development of RM theories and techniques has been undertaken for a long time.   
Particularly, after the implementation at American Airlines (Barry et al., 1992) aiming to cope 
with the new business environment in the post-deregulation era, revenue management has 
become a common practice in the airline industry.  Moreover, the application of revenue 
management has been extended to several other industries, such as rail, car rental, hotel, and 
many other areas of manufacturing and service industries.  However, how to realize the basic 
concept of revenue management, “selling the right seat to the right customer at the right price,” 
remains to be a challenge. 
 
The employment of overbooking, an industry practice for decades, could be thought as the 
beginning of the application of RM techniques in the aviation industry.  Prior researches in this 
area can be found in the paper by Rothstein (1985).  However, it is later realized that, to 
compete with the rising low-cost carriers after the Deregulation, major carriers must carefully 
segment their markets, as the characteristics of the customers are diverse.  Thus, the same cabin 
class is differentiated as many kinds of products, called fare classes.  In the nested reservation 
 - 5 -
• The flight plans submitted by airlines need to be approved by the air traffic control (ATC) 
authorities before take-off.  The air route assignment approved by the ATC authorities as 
well as the weather conditions along the routes can affect the amount of fuel required and, 
thus, the payload of the flight.  In addition, the maximum take-off weight of an aircraft 
can also be affected by the temperature and humidity of the runway. 
• In addition to the gross weight, the air cargo rating system also considers the volume of 
the shipment, which is converted into the so-called volume weight by being divided by a 
constant, 6000 cm3/kg.  The chargeable weight, on which the airlines charge the 
forwarders, is the greater of the gross weight and the volume weight.  Thus, while selling 
the cargo space in terms of tons or kg’s, the airlines are not sure that the aircraft can 
handle the shipments for the space sold.  This loading issue is further complicated by the 
fact that the shape of the shipments can cause some problems while being loaded into the 
containers and the pallets of the aircraft. 
• Finally, significant amount of air cargo nowadays are carried in the belly cargo space of 
passenger aircrafts.  For this case, the luggage of passengers has a higher priority over 
the air cargo shipments.  However, the airlines do not have the full control of the number 
of passengers who will actually show up, not to mention the amount of luggage to be 
checked. 
 
Kasilingam (1997) provides an overbooking model, taking into account the effect of the 
cancellation/no-shows and the supply uncertainty, a unique characteristic for the air cargo 
industry.  However, there is no research done to address the typical inventory control issue for 
air cargo.  Based on the single-leg DP model in Lee and Hersh (1993), this study develops the 
model to provide the optimal control policy, given the supply uncertainty inherited in the air 
cargo RM problems. 
 
 
3. DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING MODEL 
 
While facing the uncertainty of cargo space supply, the airlines usually sell the cargo space to the 
forwarders based on a forecast value.  The actual supply is materialized right before take-off.  
These two quantities are denoted by C and by T for the rest of the paper. To capture the 
randomness of the cargo space supply, T is modeled as a random variable with known 
distribution in this study.  The number of denied boarding depends both on the space unsold 
before take-off and on the actual supply.  Figure 1 illustrates the relation among these factors. 
 
 
 
 - 7 -
• s: available cargo space 
• Fi: rate of fare class i 
• Pin: probability of booking request for fare class i at decision period n 
• C: forecast of cargo space supply 
• T: random variable to model the actual cargo space supply 
• D(b): penalty function in terms of the number of denied boarding, b 
• fsn: expected total revenue given s available space at decision period n 
 
Based on above notation, the recursive equation of the DP model is as follows: 
⎪⎪
⎪
⎩
⎪⎪
⎪
⎨
⎧
++
−−=
=
∑
∑
=
−−
−
−
−
k
i
n
s
n
si
n
i
n
s
n
n
t
n
s
ffFmaxPfP
f
sCDtPr
f
1
11
1
1
0
1
0
),(
)()( TT
  
0,0
0,0
0,0
>>
=>
≥=
snfor
snfor
snfor
 (1) 
where ∑−= k
i
n
i
n PP 10 , representing the probability of no booking request 
 
At the time of take-off (n=0), the expected revenue is determined based on the number of denied 
boarding and the resulted penalty, weighted by the probabilities of cargo space supply.  For the 
case of zero available space (s=0), no decision can be made, and the expected revenue is 
naturally equal to that of the previous stage.  As for the general case (n>0 and s>0), the 
expected revenue as well as the optimal control policy depends on the two quantities, Fi+fs-1n-1 
and fsn-1, inside the max function.  If the former is greater, the space should be sold to the 
booking request; otherwise, the space should be reserved to the next stage.  This decision is 
made based on a concept very close to the EMSR approach in Belobaba (1989).  The marginal 
value δ, defined as in (2), is a function of the current decision period and the number of available 
spaces.  By comparing the marginal value with the rate of each fare class, the accept/deny 
decision for the optimal control policy can be determined. 
n
s
n
s ffsn 1),( −−=δ  (2) 
 
With the introduction of one more symbol Gimn to describe the probability of the booking request 
with size m for fare class i at decision period n, Equation (1) can be modified to model the case 
of multiple-seat booking as (3), and the marginal value can be defined as (4). 
 - 9 -
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Request Size(ton)
Probability
probabilities with respect to various booking size is thus modeled by the discrete probability 
distribution shown in Figure 3. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Distribution of Batch-Booking Size 
 
Though market segmentation and other RM techniques are not common in the air cargo industry 
at this moment, the concept of fare classes have been proposed as in Ingold and Huytom (2000).  
In this study, three fare classes are assumed, and their associated rates and probabilities of 
occurrence are summarized in Table 1.  Particularly, the penalty for the denied boarding in the 
base case of the sensitivity analysis is assumed to be the rate of the lowest booking class, i.e. 
$85/kg.  In addition, based on the assumption of demand composition in Table 1 and the 
distribution of booking size in Figure 3, the request probability for each fare class of each 
booking size at each period can be determined according to the Poisson arrival process. 
 
Table 1. Fare Classes in Test Problems 
Classes Rate ($/kg) Demand Composition 
Class 1 f1 = 125 0.15 
Class 2 f2 = 100 0.60 
Class 3 f3 = 85 0.25 
 
To understand the behavior of the model in terms of the expected total revenue and the optimal 
control policy, sensitivity analyses are conducted with respect to the two critical factors in the 
model, supply uncertainty and penalty for denied boarding.  Particularly, the parameter sd 
stands for the level of supply uncertainty.  The case of sd=1 represents the situation where the 
standard deviation is equal to 3.07, the original one calibrated from the raw data.  Thus, the 
standard deviation of the random variable T in the test problems is 3.07×sd.  On the other hand, 
the parameter d is used to represent the level of penalty.  The case of d=1 is for the situation of 
$85/kg, and the actual penalty paid for denied boarding in the test problems is $85/kg×d.  The 
results and the findings of the sensitivity analysis are summarized in the following sections. 
 - 11 -
According to the cases of high, medium, and low supply uncertainty (sd=1, 4, 8 respectively) in 
Figure 4, the decrease of expected revenue become greater as the penalty for denied boarding 
increases (d=0 to 10).  Nonetheless, the trend appears to be flat when the penalty is relatively 
high.  On the other hand, the cases of high, medium, and low levels of penalty (d=2, 5, 10 
respectively) are shown in Figure 5.  As the supply certainty increases (sd=0 to 10), the 
decrease of expected revenue becomes greater, too.  However, the curves become severely 
downward when supply uncertainty is high, indicating the expected revenue is decreased 
significantly.  Finally, based on these two figures, the expected revenue is not affected if either 
factor does not exist (i.e. sd=0 or d=0). 
 
Above results suggests that supply uncertainty cast stronger impact on expected revenue when 
compared to penalty level.  Thus, for revenue maximization, it is critical for airlines cautiously 
to manage the supply of cargo space.  Though inherent to air cargo operation, supply 
uncertainty can be reduced if good forecast techniques are applied.  Particularly, if the variation 
of cargo space supply can be maintained within a relatively small range, the expected revenue is 
not very sensitive to the increase of the penalty for denied boarding.  The airlines can even raise 
the level of penalty to attract more customers. 
 
 
4.2 Analysis of Control Policy 
 
To further evaluate the impact of supply uncertainty and penalty for denied boarding, the optimal 
control policies with respect to the test problems are recorded.  With the example of booking 
size of 5, Figure 6 illustrates how these two factors affect the accept/deny decision for the 
booking requests of different classes. 
 
Based on the control policies shown in Figure 6, airlines should be reserve the space for 
high-fare classes if the number of spaces left is small and/or it is far from the time of take-off, i.e., 
toward the lower-right corner in the charts.  On the other hand, airlines should try their best to 
sell the spaces if the number of spaces left is plenty and/or the time of take-off is close, i.e., 
toward the upper-left corner in the charts.  However, as shown in Figure 6, the “boundaries” 
representing the change of the accept/deny decisions move with respect to the cases with various 
levels of supply uncertainty and penalty. 
 
When compared to the base case with light penalty and small supply uncertainty in part (a), 
substantially increasing the penalty to 10 times as in part (b) does not change the optimal policy 
much.  However, if supply uncertainty is increased significantly to 8 times as in part (c), the 
optimal control policy is considerably modified, though the penalty remains to be low.  This 
 - 13 -
5. CONCLUSIONS 
 
This study applies the RM technique, which has been widely used in air passenger operation, to 
the control of air cargo space.  One important difference between the RM problem of air cargo 
and that of air passenger is supply uncertainty.  In addition, denied boarding caused by supply 
uncertainty must be dealt with carefully.  A single-leg air cargo space RM problem is defined 
and tackled by a dynamic programming (DP) model in this study.  The optimal control policy 
and the expected revenue are derived by solving the DP problem.  Numerical experiments based 
on the actual operational data of a Taiwanese international carrier are performed to verify the 
model.  Particularly, sensitivity analyses are conducted with respect to the most important two 
factors in the model, supply uncertainty and penalty for denied boarding.  The result shows that 
supply uncertainty is more influential than penalty level.  Thus, to raise the revenue by RM 
techniques, airlines need to accurately forecast and control the supply of air cargo space. 
 
The major goal of this study is to highlight the fundamental difference between the RM problems 
of air cargo and air passenger, and a simple dynamic single-leg problem is considered.  Thus, 
the direction of future researches is first aiming to extend the model to the network RM problems 
of air cargo so as to deal with with the current hub-and-spike type of operation.  In addition, 
practical issues such as cancellation and overbooking should be incorporated into the model.  
Finally, as mentioned earlier, loading is one of the sources of supply uncertainty.  If the 
information of the shipments such as the dimensions and the gross weights is available in 
advance, the model can take them into consideration to further alleviate its impacts on supply 
uncertainty.   
 
RM techniques are not widely applied in the air cargo industry.  Especially, the concept of 
market segmentation is new to this industry, though some airliners have begun to offer different 
products such as various kinds of time-definite services.  It is critical to analyze the impact of 
implementing this kind of mechanism, as current shippers may be unwilling to pay extra charge 
for late bookings.  On the other hand, airlines can be reluctant to offer penalty for the shipments 
denied for boarding.  According to the current practice, shipments denied for boarding are 
usually re-routed and sometimes delayed without any compensation.  Nonetheless, as the value 
of time for many air cargo shipments are extremely high, both the suppliers and the consumers of 
air cargo service eventually will agree on differentiating the types of air cargo services.  
Therefore, future researches should focus on the strategic issues such as pricing as well as some 
tactical decisions such as class-dependent penalty. 
 
 
REFERENCES 
