 2
sensitivity and are capable for high 
throughput detections. 
It is noted that Eq. (1) indicates the SPR 
condition is determined by the period of the 
nanostructure and the surface medium. It is 
independent of the geometrical shapes, such 
as one-dimensional slit array or 
two-dimensional hole array. In this paper, we 
experimentally tested the SPR sensitivity for 
different nanostructures with the same period, 
600nm. We found that shapes also have 
substantial effects on the sensitivities. It is 
higher for nanostructures made of nanoslits 
and is lower for nanoholes. The possible 
reason for such difference is due to the 
extraordinary transmission of transverse 
magnetic (TM) polarized wave in the 
nanoslit structures. 
 
 
2. NANOSTRUCTURES FABRCIATION 
Metallic nanoslits were fabricated by 
using electron beam lithography and reactive 
ion etching method. We used a soda-lime 
glass as the substrate. Gold has poor 
adhesion to the glass surface, hence 
5nm-thick Ti film and 130nm-thick gold film 
were sequentially deposited on the glass 
sample by using an electron gun evaporator. 
After the deposition, 350nm-thick PMMA 
resist (MicroChem Corp., Newton, MA, 
U.S.A.) was spun coated. A field emission 
scanning electron microscope (LEO-1530) 
modified with a nano-pattern generating 
system (NPGS) was used to write nanoslits 
on PMMA resist. The patterns were then 
transferred into Ti/Au film by using argon 
sputtering in a reactive ion etching machine 
(Oxford Instrument, plasmalab 80plus). The 
power of the radio-frequency (RF) 
electromagnetic wave in the reaction 
chamber was 200 W. The chamber pressure 
was 1 × 10-2 torr and the flow rate of Argon 
gas was 40 sccm. After the RIE process, the 
PMMA resist was removed by rinsing the 
sample in acetone for few hours. To make 
sure that no residue of PMMA resist 
remained on the gold nanostructures, we 
further cleaned the sample by using ozone 
sputtering in the RIE chamber. The sample 
was then put in ultra pure water for 20 
minutes and purged dry by nitrogen. In the 
experiments, we designed three kinds of the 
nanostructures: a nanoslit array, a nanogrid 
array and a nanohole array. Figure 1 show 
the SEM images for those nanostructures on 
the glass substrate. These arrays have the 
same period of 600nm and same area of 
150umx150um. The air-gaps for nanoslit and 
nanogrid arrays were about 50nm and hole 
size of the nanohole array was about 100nm.  
Fig. 1 The SEM images for different gold 
nanostructures on the glass substrate. (a) nanoslit 
array. (b) nanogrid structure and (c) nanohole array. 
These arrays have the same period of 600nm and same 
area of 150umx150um. 
 
3. MEASUREMENT RESULTS 
The transmission spectrum for single 
array was tested by using a white light source 
(12W, halogen lamp). Figure 2 shows the 
optical measurement setup. The light was 
spatially filtered by using a lens, an iris 
diaphragm and a collimation lens. The 
polarized light was then focused on single 
array by using a 10x objective lens. Note that 
to avoid the influence from other arrays, the 
beam size focused on the array needs to be 
smaller than 150um. This was accomplished 
by adjusting the aperture size of diaphragm. 
The transmission light was then collected by 
another 10x objective and focused on a fiber 
cable. The transmission spectrum was taken 
 4
In most SPR biosensors, aqueous 
environment is preferred. We thus tested the 
sensitivities at 830nm-wavelength SPR mode. 
Fig. 4(a) shows the transmission spectra of 
nanoslit array in water and different 
methanol/water mixtures. There was 
apparent red-shift when outside medium 
changed from water to methanol rich 
medium. Fig. 4(b) shows the peak 
wavelengths against the refractive index of 
outside medium. The slope of the fitting 
curve shows the wavelength sensitivity is 
590.9nm per refractive index unit (RIU). The 
red-shift and sensitivity can be well predicted 
by Eq. (1). In the phase matching cases, the 
change of SPR wavelength (Δλ) is 
approximated by following equation when 
the absolute value of εm is much larger than 
εd.  
 
 naa dd Δ=−−=Δ 021021 )(~ εελλλ    (2) 
 
where Δn is the change of the surface 
refractive index where. The theoretical 
sensitivity is 600nm/RIU for the 
600nm-period nanoslit array. This value is 
very close to the measured result and is 
comparable with conventional grating 
coupled-based SPR sensors. It is worth to 
compare these two sensors. The spectrum in 
a grating coupled sensor is measured by the 
reflection light from the top surface. 
Scattering of aqueous medium would cause 
substantial noises in the measurement. On 
the contrary, the spectrum in nanoslit sensor 
is taken in the transmission mode. 
Transmission light is dominant by the 
evanescent surface plasmonic waves. The 
scattering of the aqueous medium has a small 
effect on this device. The major drawback of 
the nanoslit-based sensor is the fabrication 
cost. Most nanostructures are made by using 
electron beam lithography or focused ion 
beam method. For the grating coupling 
device, the grating is easily fabricated by 
using two laser beams interference method. 
  
 
Fig. 4  (a) The transmission spectra of nanoslit 
array in water and different methanol/water mixtures. 
There was apparent red-shift when outside medium 
changed from water to methanol rich medium. (b) The 
peak wavelengths against the refractive index of 
outside medium. The slope of the fitting curve shows 
the RIU sensitivity is 590.9nm/RIU. 
 
 Figure 5(a) shows the transmission 
spectra of the nanohole array in water and 
different methanol/water mixtures. It also 
shows apparent red-shift when outside 
medium changed from water to methanol 
rich medium. Fig. 5(b) shows the peak 
wavelengths against the refractive index of 
outside medium. The slope of the fitting 
curve shows the RIU sensitivity is 
514nm/RIU. This sensitivity is about 13% 
lower than the nanoslit structure. Figure 6(a) 
shows the transmission spectra of the 
nanogrid struture in water and different 
methanol/water mixtures. Fig. 6(b) shows the 
peak wavelengths against the refractive index 
of outside medium. The slope of the fitting 
curve shows the RIU sensitivity is 
556nm/RIU. The sensitivity is higher than 
nanohole array but is lower than nanoslit 
structure. 
   
 6
the buffer solution was taken. Then 0.125μM 
Anti-SAP in the buffer solution was injected 
to the channel. The sample was placed over 
night in order to make Anti-SAP well bound 
to the gold surface. A new buffer without 
Anti-SAP was then injected two times to 
remove the unbound antibodies. The 
spectrum of Anti-SAP on gold film in the 
buffer solution was taken. Next, 2.09μM 
SAP was injected to the channel. After 
several hours displacement for the 
antigen-antibody interactions, the unbound 
SAP was washed away by filling the channel 
with new buffer for two times. The 
transmission spectrum was then taken. Fig. 7 
shows the measured spectra for different 
surface conditions. The Anti-SAP on gold 
surface made ~1nm red-shift of SPR peak. 
The shift was increased to 2.4nm when SAP 
was bound to Anti-SAP. The 25kDa-sized 
SAP resulted in a 1.4nm wavelength shift. In 
implies that if the resolution of a 
spectrometer is 0.1nm, the gold nanoslit 
array can detect ~ 2kDa-sized biomolecules 
attached to the surface. 
 
 
Fig. 7 The measured spectra for different surface 
conditions on a gold nanoslit array. The Anti-SAP on 
gold surface made ~1nm red-shift. The shift was 
increased to 2.4nm when SAP bound to Anti-SAP. All 
the measurements were taken in the same buffer 
solutions 
 
The nanostructures can alos be used to 
detect small nanoparticles (NPs). For the 
detection of NPs, gold NPs of 13nm in size 
were prepared by reduction of AuCl4 solution. 
In order to immobilize gold NPs on the 
nanoslit array, the sample was immersed in 
0.1 M cysteamine solution for 2 hours and 
annealed at 120oC for 5min. After the 
treatment, the NP solution was dipped on the 
sample surface for a period of reaction time. 
Unbounded NPs were then washed away by 
ultra-pure water. The NP numbers 
immobilized on the nanoslit array were 
controlled by the reaction time. We observed 
NPs by a SEM and calculated the average 
particle number density by using Matlab 
software. Fig. 8(a) shows the changes in the 
transmission spectra for different densities of 
NPs. In the sample without NPs, there was a 
resonant peak at ~695nm. This spectrum had 
a blue-shift compared to Fig. 3(a). The 
blue-shift was induced by the processing of 
cysteamine and the annealing process which 
widened the slit gap and thus shortened the 
resonant wavelength of the cavity mode. 
When 13nm gold NPs were immobilized on 
the nanoslit surface, there were significant 
changes in the peak wavelengths and their 
transmission intensities. The resonant 
wavelength was of a red-shift and its 
intensity decreased with an increase of NPs. 
 To estimate the sensitivity, we plotted 
the shifts of the resonant wavelength and the 
percentage changes of transmission intensity 
as a function of surface NP density; the 
results are shown in Fig. 8(b). At low NP 
density, the cavity mode had a sensitivity of 
11.7 particles/μm2/nm, and the SPR mode, 
30.1 particles/μm2/nm. The wavelength 
sensitivity of the cavity mode was about 2.5 
times larger that of the SPR mode. For the 
intensity change, the sensitivity was 19.3 
particles/μm2/% at a wavelength of 630nm 
and 6.45 particles/μm2/% at a wavelength of 
695nm. Again, the sensitivity was greater for 
the cavity mode. The sensitivity of cavity 
mode indicates that if the wavelength 
resolution is 0.1nm or the intensity stability 
is 0.2%, the detection sensitivity can reach to 
about one NP/μm2. This sensitivity is 
comparable with that of the fluorescent dyes 
(~0.5 fluors/μm2) used in DNA microarrays. 
It is notable that compared to the wavelength 
detection method, the intensity detection 
method is simple with regards to optical 
illumination and detection and is also capable 
of performing high throughput detections 
using a sensitive CCD. Fig. 8(c) The SEM 
image of NPs in the slit gap and on the 
