2圖二:在長波紅外光範圍測量水體溫度或在可見光到近紅外光直接以感應器在地面測量
圖三:在取像範圍內放入已知反射光譜之物體
多筆資料估計是運用不同高度或角度資料估計運用內插及外插統計方法，用數學估計消除其效
應(如圖四)，但此種不同高度或角度資料亦須特別規劃而不易取得。最後是用軟體模擬，應用如
MODTRAN 等軟體模擬大氣輻射效應，再將之消除。但要取得較佳的估計，當時的大氣狀況、各氣體
濃度、溫度、太陽角度等參數都需要輸入，這些數據更是不易得到。這些是進行絕對性輻射校正的
困難，因此我們將對相對性輻射校正進行研究。
圖四:運用不同高度或角度資料估計運用內插及外插統計方法
本計畫針對不同限制條件，分兩年進行研究。第一年針對相同感應器的遙測影像做相對輻射
校正，因為感應器相同，波段頻率也相同，所以是單純的影像匹配，可利用灰階分布匹配或平均與
變異數法。第二年針對不同感應器的相對輻射校正(如史波特五號及福衛二號)，因為特性不同，所
以將用相關矩陣對其進行標準化，達到相對輻射校正的目的。
4因此我們知道再乘以第二張影像的標準差且加上其平均值，就能夠達到有相同平均值與變異數
的目的。
211
1
2
1 )(ˆ 
  XX (5)
2. 灰階匹配法:
平均與變異數法是一種線性的對應，如果兩張影像灰階分布不是成比例，這方法就不能得到良
好效果。針對不同時期影像用非線性的灰階匹配法 (histogram specification)進行相對輻射校
正。假設影像中有 N個資料點表示成 Nnnx 1，且每個資料點的維度是 L (  Linin xx 1 )，X= Nxxx ...21 是
一個 LN 的矩陣。我們對其中一個維度計算其灰階分布 HIS，如公式(6)，再除以整張影像的資料
點總數，就成為灰階機率分布 HIS’，如公式(7)。
N
nnik kxnumberHIS 1)(  (6)
N
HIS
SHI kk  (7)
接著我們對影像分別進行灰階分布正規化(histogram equalization)，再正規化對應曲線互相匹
配，則可以指定我們希望處理影像該擁有的灰階分布。
正規化之數學推導是透過指定影像機率密度函數 (Probability Density Function, PDF)，我
們先將原始影像的PDF ( )(wPr ) 加以積分，得到累加函數 (Cumulated Density Function, CDF)
)(rT ，w是影像灰階值、 r 是影像中灰階最大值：
 r r dwwPrT 0 )()( (8)
另外我們指定影像轉換後的機率密度函數 (PDF) )(wPz ，將其加以積分也得到累加函數 )(zG ；由
於灰階分布匹配法是指定轉換後的函數其PDF要和指定的相等，所以其兩者的累加函數 )(),( zGrT
也會相等：
 z z dwwPzGrT 0 )()()( (9)
再將原始影像的累加函數 )(rT 帶入指定PDF累加函數的反函數 )(1 zG ，即可將原始影像轉換出指定
的機率密度函數 (PDF)，如圖六。
))((1 rTGz  (10)
6使得 IAAT  。
資料在扣除平均值及消除各波段間的相關性後成為   )1(21 TTN XAyyyY   。
從式(13)到式(15)的過程稱為白化，在這個情況下，Y擁有平均值為零和獨立隨機分布且變異數為
1的特性。
4. 多維度灰階匹配法:
多維度灰階匹配法，可以將各維度影像間的灰階進行匹配，故可以保持光譜間的相關性，避免
各波段單一維度灰階匹配法所造成的光譜(色彩)失真。我們使用兩個方法:
4.1. 高斯混合的機率分布法
我們用 Kim 2006 年的方法將多維度灰階分布看成高斯混合的機率分布方程式。假設均值 xi 且
變異數σ2pi2，機率分布可寫為:



n
i
iii pxxNpxf
1
22 ),|()(  (16)
因此這個問題就變成將 f(x)轉成平均分布的 g(x):
min    D dDxfxg 2)()( (17)
 







ji ji
ji
ji
ji
pp
xx
pp
pp
,
222
2
22 )(2
)(
exp
2
1
 (18)
這個問題是一個最佳化的問題，我們利用初始的猜測並疊代找出最佳化的Φ。因為是多維度，
所以(16)就變成(19)。



n
i
d
iii pNpf
1
/22 ),|()( Ixxx  (19)
 












ji
d
j
d
i
ji
dd
j
d
i
ji
pppp
pp
,
/2/22
2
2//2/2 )(2
exp
)( 
xx
(20)
4.2. 坐標旋轉法
此方法為 Inamdar 於 2008 年提出的多維度機率分布匹配，其步驟如下:
(1) 初始 (X1) 及目標 (X2) 影像都是 L 個波段及 N 個像元，令 s←1, X1(0)←X1。
(2) 選擇一個旋轉矩陣 R，使 X1_R (s)←RX1(s - 1) ,X2_R←RX2
(3) 投影 P1(X1_R(s)) 到 L軸得到邊際分布 P1_m(X1_R(s)), m = 1, 2, …, L
(4) 使 X1 , X2 各波段的邊際分布匹配
(5) 旋轉回原來的光譜分布: X1(s)←R-1X1_r(s)
(6) 令 s←s + 1，重複(3)-(6)直到收斂條件符合
8圖九、NIR 波段灰階匹配的結果
圖十、SWIR 波段灰階匹配的結果
圖十一到圖十四的左邊和中間的圖表是各波段的夏天和冬天影像之 CDF，右邊的圖表則是匹配
後新影像之 CDF，可以看出經過匹配後新影像的 CDF 和冬天影像的 CDF 形狀幾乎一樣，只有少部
份地方不同，將這些圖表放大才會比較清楚，會出現這種狀況是因為匹配過程中，數值計算所造成
的誤差，但是這些數值不會相差太多，故不會影響地表變遷的判別。
圖十一、綠色波段的 CDF 比較圖
圖十二、紅色波段的 CDF 比較圖
10
圖十七、NIR 波段的 histogram 比較圖 圖十八、SWIR 波段的 histogram 比較圖
為了更凸顯出匹配後新影像與原始影像的不同與加強地表變遷的判斷，將夏天、冬天及匹配後
的影像光譜值互相相減後取絕對值，其結果如圖十九到二十二所示。
左邊的圖都是夏天減冬天，其意義只是單純的兩個不同季節的影像之光譜值差異，造成差異的
原因有很多，可能是大氣影響，可能是太陽輻射影響，可能地表的變遷等等，因此可以從圖中看出
有明顯差異的區域 (即圖中較白的地方) 很多。中間的部份是夏天減匹配後新影像，紅色和綠色波
段有零星的黑色區域，即差值較小的地方，而 NIR 和 SWIR 波段有較大的黑色區域，由地真資料
可以知道這些較大的黑色區域是水，而這些影像幾乎整張都偏亮，表示各個像素的光譜差值都差不
多且相對的高，對判斷地表變遷較無幫助。右邊的部份是冬天減匹配後新影像，相較於上述的兩種
比較圖，這張比較圖的黑白比對比較分明，而且黑色區域很多，表示經過灰階匹配法之後，消去不
少大氣輻射和太陽的影響，而匹配後新影像還會保有夏天的地真資料，如此一來就有助於地表變遷
的判斷，而圖中的白點就很有可能是有變遷過的地表。
圖十九、綠色波段之影像相減比較圖
12
圖二十三、綠色波段之影像相減比較圖
圖二十四、紅色波段之影像相減比較圖
圖二十五、NIR 波段之影像相減比較圖
圖二十六、SWIR 波段之影像相減比較圖
14
(a) 1,2 波段 (b) 2,3 波段
圖三十、單一波段灰階匹配及坐標旋轉法的 histogram 比較
圖二十九是利用單一波段灰階匹配及坐標旋轉法將夏天影像轉到冬天影像後新影像的光譜值
互相相減後取絕對值，其結果顯示在兩季中的變遷，可看出坐標旋轉法的效能優於單一波段灰階匹
配及高斯混合的機率分布法。圖三十(a)(b)分別是 1,2 波段及 2,3 波段之二維灰階分布，上方各為
夏天及冬天影像原始分布，左下為夏天轉到冬天影像各波段單獨灰階匹配的結果，可看出與右上之
目標分布有相當差異，而運用坐標旋轉法所得之灰階匹配結果(右下圖)則有明顯改善。
五、 計畫成果自評：
1. 研究內容與計畫相符
本計畫之研究內容與原先所預定之工作內容完全相符，並無改變研究方法。實驗亦進行十分
順利，無須做任何重大修正。
2. 達成預期目標情況
基本上計畫整體按原訂計畫規模完成。
3. 研究成果的學術或應用價值
本研究利用平均變異數及灰階分布匹配演算法進行單影像相對校正，並擴展至多維度之白化
反白化演算法進行多光譜影像處理。在增進變遷偵測的提升及誤判降低，深具學術及應用價值。
4. 是否適合在學術期刊發表
本研究成果十分適合發表，論文寫作正持續進行。
六、參考文獻：
[1] J.A. Richards and X.P. Jia, Remote Sensing Digital Image Analysis: An Introduction, 4th edition,
Springer, 2005.
[2] T.M. Lillesane, R.W. Kiefer and J.W. Chipman, Remote Sensing and Image Interpretation, 5th
edition, Wiley, 2003.
[3] J.R. Scott, Remote Sensing: The Image Chain Approach, 2nd edition, Oxford University Press,
2005.
[4] E. Ashton, “Detection of subpixel anaomalies in multispectral infrared imagery using an adaptive
Bayesian classifier,” IEEE Trans. on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, vol. 36, no. 2, pp. 506-517,
Mar. 1998.
[5] A. Ifarraguerri and C.-I Chang, “Unsupervised hyperspectral image analysis with projection
pursuit,” IEEE Trans. on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, vol. 38, no. 6, pp. 2529-2538, Nov. 2000
[6] S. M. Schweizer, J. M. F. Moura, “Eficient detection in hyperspectral imagery”, IEEE Trans. on
Image Processing, vol. 10, no. 4, pp. 584-597, Apr. 2001.
[7] S. S. Chiang and C.-I Chang, “Unsupervised target detection in hyperspectral images using 
projection pursuit,” IEEE Trans. on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, vol. 39, no. 7, July 2001.
出席國際學術會議心得報告
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-008-071-MY2
計畫名稱 多高光譜遙測影像之相對輻射校正
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
任玄（中央大學太空及遙測研究中心副教授）
會議時間地點 民國九十八年十一月十日至十一月十四日,可倫坡（斯里蘭卡）
會議名稱 ACRS 會議 2008
發表論文題目
[1] Comparison and Performance Analysis for Relative Radiometric
Calibration Methods
[2] Multispectral Image Classification Using Generalized Fully Constrained
Least Squares Approach
[3] Using Spectral and Spatial Information Coupled with Mathematical
Morphology for Oil Spill Detection in Multispectral Imagery
[4] A Spatially Correlated Image Fusion Algorithm for Multispectral Remotely
Sensed Imagery
[5] Using multidimensional histogram equalization as relative radiometric
calibration for change detection in remote sensing imagery
一、參加會議經過
2008 年 ACRS 會議於 11 月中旬於斯里蘭卡舉行，為鼓勵學生參與國際研討會用英
文報告並與外國學者及研究生交流，會議中帶領五位碩博士班學生暨兼任研究助理
參與，以學生為第一作者身分各發表一篇文章。一位博班學生是口頭報告，因在學
校練習多次，表現不錯。而四位海報報告的碩班學生，也訓練主動與學者進行交流，
結果令人滿意。會中除聽取了很多科學新知外，並且與許多與會的科學家，做討論
與經驗交流，收穫頗為豐富。
二、與會心得
雖然學生在出發前對參與國際研討會用英文報告有些不安，但經過練習與模擬，會
議期間都表現出色，並感謝國科會對研究生出國會議部分經費的支持，相信對他們
將來的發展多有助益。
ACRS 是亞洲遙測的盛事，每年在亞洲不同國家舉行。研究領域涵蓋遙測及航測的訊
號處理，以及其在大氣、森林、海洋、災害、國土監測上的應用。大陸的學者增加
特別多，也對其近年的發展有更多了解。
USING SPECTRAL AND SPATIAL INFORMATION COUPLED WITH
MATHEMATICAL MORPHOLOGY FOR OIL SPILL DETECTION IN
MULTISPECTRAL IMAGERY
Ling-Ling Tsao
Graduate Student/Graduate Institute of Space Science,
National Central University, Chungli, Taiwan
Tel: +886-3-422-7151 ext.57673
E-mail: llt00529@gmail.com
Hong-Ming Kao
PhD Student/Institute of Applied Geosciences,
National Taiwan Ocean University, Keelong, Taiwan
E-mail: hartge1020@yahoo.com.tw
Hsuan Ren
Associate Professor/Center for Space and Remote Sensing Research,
National Central University, Chungli, Taiwan
Tel: +886-3-422-7151 ext.57676
E-mail: hren@csrsr.ncu.edu.tw
KEY WORDS: oil spill detection, anomaly detection, RX detector, spatial feature images.
ABSTRACT
How to detect, monitor and track the oil spill on the sea surface are always very
important tasks, since it is harmful to the ecological environment. The remotely sensed image
provides an effective and efficient way to monitor the sea area. This study focuses on the
detection of oil slick on sea surface using multispectral imagery technology. Since the oil spill
usually only occupies a few pixels compare to the sea area in the image scene, it can be
considered as an anomaly. The widely used RX algorithm, designed for anomaly detection, did
not produce satisfied results. Although it successfully detects the oil slick, but the light
reflections from the small waves are also detected as false alarm. In order to discriminate oil
slick from the other interferers, spatial features are introduced into anomaly detection. The
spatial features of oil slick are very different from that of the small wave reflection. The
former often forms a connected area, but the latter ones usually separated and spread in the
image. Our proposed method is to extract different spatial features form the images and
combine with spectral information, and then perform anomaly detection with both spectral and
spatial features to improve the oil spill detection. In the experiment, we adopt SPOT
multispectral images for performance analysis.
1. INTRODUCTION
Taiwan plays a key role in southeastern Asia’s transportation. Nowadays, marine transit is
still an important way for import and export. The oil spill on the sea surface caused by human
activities occurs from time to time and is harmful to the marine environment. Using the
remotely sensed images to detect this unwelcomed hazard material on the sea surface is a
convenient and effective approach.
Target detection can be implemented in two aspects. One is using target’s unique character 
of spectral reflection; the other is using the spatial textural distribution to discriminate them
from the background. Because the spectral information between oil slick and the surrounding
code pixels in image, it takes a 3×3 mask on pixel in image and gives those nine pixels a serial
number which shows in Fig. 1.
Fig. 1 Fig. 2 Fig. 3
Fig. 1 shows Texture Spectrum serial number. Fig. 2 Shows Texture Feature Coding Method serial number. Fig. 3 Shows
first connection. Fig. 4 Shows second connection.
Where C is the central pixel and its surrounding eight pixels are marked as {a1, a2, a3, a4, b1,
b2, b3, b4}. Selected three pixels on four directions variously and calculated odds of two
neighbor pixels. According to the variation of three pixels on same direction we could code
pixels in image. There are four possible situations with three connected pixels in one direction:
I. (|ai-C|≦Δ)∩(|C-bi|≦Δ) II. [(|ai-C|≦Δ)∩(|C-bi|>Δ)] ∪ [(|ai-C|>Δ)∩(|C-bi|≦Δ)]
III. [(ai-C>Δ)∩(C-bi>Δ)]∪[(C-ai>Δ)∩(bi-C>Δ)] IV. [(ai-C>Δ)∩(bi-C>Δ)]∪[(C-ai>Δ)∩(C-bi>Δ)]
Where the Δ is the tolerance eror, and thereare two ways to assign this parameter: one is
fixed relation with Δ between 1 and 3; another way is Just Noticeable Difference (JND) which
showed in Eq. (2),α and βare parameters for JND, the optimized value are 17 and 3/128. bg is
the average value of eight neighborhood pixels. And s is the weight of tolerance error.





1283)127(
1273])
127
(1[ 21
bgifbg
bgif
bg
s

 (2)
According to table 1, the classified number is given by combining the direction of the first and
second connection.
Table 1 Texture feature coding method classification
First connection
Categories I II III IV
I 1 2 3 4
II 2 5 6 7
III 3 6 8 9
Second
connection
IV 4 7 9 10
Define κ as the classified result of combining horizontal direction and the upper right to
lower left direction, λas the classified result of combining vertical direction and the upper left
and lower right direction. Every pixel has its κ and λ, and the texture feature number (TFN) is
the multiplication ofκ andλas shown in Eq. (3).
),(),(),( yxyxyxTFN   (3)
TFN has 42 possible numbers between 1 and 100, and it is rearranged into 0 to 41. If the
number is large, then the pixel’s gray value is diference from its neighbor, on the other hand, if 
the pixel has similar gray value to its surroundings, the number will be small. There are three
indexes calculated from TFN as following:
aware there are many pixels spread on the sea surface which are induced by marine phenomena.
In order to reduce that interference, we adopt the “open-close” algorithm of mathematical
morphology to clear tiny noise from sea surface phenomena. After implement “open-close”
algorithm, we identify the 12 feature images as a new image cube.
(a) Mean (b) Variance (c) Kurtosis (d) Mean (e) Variance (f) Kurtosis (g) Mean (h) Variance (i) Kurtosis
Fig. 5 Feature images of Gray Level Histogram. (a)-(c) are feature images of Band1, (d)-(f) are feature images of Band2
and (g)-(h) are feature images of Band3.
(a)
(b)
(c)
Fig. 6 Feature images of Texture Spectrum. 0 stands for fixed relation and 1 stands for JND. (a) is feature image of
Band1, (b) is feature image of Band2 and (c) is feature image of Band3.
Fig. 7 shows the RX result on new image cube according to Eq. (1). In this figure, oil slick
gives higher score. After applying a threshold to the RX result, as shown in Fig.8, the oil slick is
clearly viewed but with some white pixels as interferers. We implement “open-close”again to
clear tiny interference and circle the area on the original image, the results are shown in Fig 9
and Fig 10 respectively. Same procedure is applied to the original image cube, as shown in Figs.
11 to 14. Comparing the result for original image with the result for new image cube, new image
cube can detect the oil slick with better performance.
Fig. 7 RX result for new cube Fig. 8 Thresholded image Fig. 9 Detected Area Fig. 10 Area on SPOT1 image
Using multidimensional histogram equalization as relative radiometric
calibration for change detection in remote sensing imagery
Hsien-Ting Chen 1*, Hsuan Ren2
1 Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering,
National Central University, Jhongli, Taiwan, 32001
2 Center for Space and Remote Sensing Research,
National Central University, Jhongli, Taiwan, 32001
*Correspondence author: slashsabo@gmail.com
KEY WORDS: Multispectral imagery, Relative radiometric calibration, Multidimensional
histogram equalization, Multidimensional histogram equalization, Decorrelation stretch
ABSTRACT: Change detection in remote sensing provides useful information for various
applications. The purpose is to locate the changed area between two remotely sensed images
collected at different times and identify the materials before and after the changes. However, the
difference in spectrum may not solely result from the changes of the endmembers on the ground.
The spectrum of the same material in two remote sensing images may not be the same due to the
different condition of solar illumination and atmosphere condition while the images were
obtained. Therefore, radiometric calibration is required before applying the change detection
algorithm and comparing the spectrum. Since it is difficult to have complete information for
absolute radiometric calibration, in this paper, we propose a relative radiometric calibration
method to transform the data, so these images from different times will have similar radiation
and atmosphere effect.
The histogram specification is used to adjust the gray level distribution of one image to match
that of another. The process is performed by equalizing the histogram and followed by inversion
of the cumulated histogram. Since multispectral imagery has multiple dimensions, its histogram
is also multidimensional. The conventional algorithm assumes each component is independent,
so it performs 1-D histogram equalization to each component separately. But the assumption is
usually not true, the spectrum is correlated between bands in multispectral images. In this study,
we perform the histogram equalization in a multidimensional space. Since a given histogram can
be viewed as a Gaussian mixture, in order to fit the uniform distribution, each index of the
histogram needed to be relocated. The difference of the original histogram and the uniform
distribution is demanded to be minimum. The results of the histogram equalization can be used
to accomplish histogram specification between the two images.
Finally, we adopt two SPOT-5 images for our experiment, and we also compare the
experimental results with previous proposed“decorelation stretch.”
remarks and discuss future work.
2. Methodology
Two histogram equalization methods are discussed in this section. The graylevel histogram
equalization is developed for single graylevel image, while the multidimensional histogram
equalization can be generalized to multispectral and color images.
2.1 Graylevel Histogram Equalization (GHE)
In this section, we review the conventional procedure of histogram equalization (Gonzalez
et al, 2002). Due to the data applied by the method is gray level image, it is also named as
“graylevel histogram equalization (GHE).”
For a given gray level image, its histogram h can be regarded as intensity xi and relative
frequency pi, where i=0~n, and n is the maximum gray value. The objective is to transform the
processed histogram to uniform distribution. We calculate the cumulative distribution function
(CDF) s and get the new intensity of the relative frequency. Because the processed image is
digital, the discrete case is shown by Eq. (1). The intensity xi is transformed to xnew:



i
k
knew px
0
(1)
When the image is multidimensional, for example, color imagery or multispectral imagery,
the intuitive way is treat the image cube as several gray level images, and apply GHE to them
individually. Although this method is simple and fast, the histogram of the equalized image does
not fit into the uniform distribution in multiple dimensions. Therefore, we adopt another method
to handle this kind of problem.
2.2 Multidimensional Histogram Equalization (MHE)
We adopt the method proposed by (Kim et al, 2006) to equalize the multidimensional
histogram. The basic idea is to view the multidimensional histogram, i.e., probability
distribution function (PDF), as a Gaussian mixture. Suppose the normal distribution function N
with the mean xi and varianceσ2pi2, where xi is the intensity and pi is the relative frequency of the
histogram of the processed image. The histogram can be written as:



n
i
iii pxxNpxf
1
22 ),|()(  (2)
Where n is the total number of gray level, and σ is a scalingfactor. The objective, like the
principal of GHE, is to match the PDF to uniform distribution. The problem can be defined as
minimizing the difference between f(x) and the uniform distribution g(x):
MSE value of GHE and MHE are both lower than original’s, but difference between them is
small. It can be seen MSE is not the best way to measure the performance of the equalization
method.
(a) A- 1st (b) A- 2nd (c) B- 1st (d) B- 2nd (e) histogram of 1st (f) histogram of 2nd
Figure 1 Original images and their histograms
(a) A- 1st (b) B- 1st (c) subtraction (d) bi-image of (c) (e)equalized histogram
Figure 2 GHE results
(a) A- 1st (b) B- 1st (c) subtraction (d) bi-image of (c) (e)equalized histogram
Figure 3 MHE results
(a) A (original) (b) GHE (c) MHE (d) B (original) (e) GHE (f) MHE
Figure 4 Original and Equalized 2-D histogram
(a)A-1st (b)B-1st (c)subtraction (d)A-2nd (e)B-2nd (f)subtraction
Figure 5 equalized images (2-D MHE)
