  
Fidelity of multi-color printing process with illuminant-
independent characteristics can be optimally achieved. 
A schematic of Hi-Fi color gamut of CMYKRGB was studied 
here, as shown in Figure 1. With different hues from standard inks 
of CMYK, extra colorants of RGB were used to offer the 
opportunity to extend the printable gamut of standard process. This 
idea [1] in Graphic Arts was considered, not only to advance the 
density range, the resolution and the rending of details; but also to 
profit the representable gamut. Also the lighter or better hues of 
some saturated colors, as obtained in the conventional CMYK 
printing process, can be attained. Those colors are such as orange, 
violet, certain reds, blue, purple and certain greens, which cannot 
be reproduced by conventional CMYK printing. Indirectly, one 
can well imagine, then, it also augments the stability of tertiary 
colors.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1.  The use of Hi-Fi colorants, R, G,, R to extend the gamut achieved 
with standard CMYK printing process 
Therefore, by keeping two kernels of both “metamerism” and 
“gamuts” in mind, the focus of this study was to derive a 
universally well-performing Hi-Fi multi-color printing device 
characterization model. A feasible technique of FM screening 
separation was used to process Hi-Fi complex color images by 
exploring a multi-spectral approach which is independent of 
illuminants. The conversion between device-dependent data (for 
instance CMY or CMYK) and device-independent data (i.e. CIE 
XYZ/L*a*b*) hence, could be determined via the printing device 
characterization model. Here, the characterization was carried out 
via the provision of printing training data set of IT8.7/4. Finally it 
could be satisfactorily applied in the process of cross-media colour 
transform of Hi-Fi complex color images. 
However, there was a necessity to have multispectral types of 
complex color images as original input images in the process of 
FM screening separation. Consequently, a simulated multi-
spectrally performing camera characterization model was also 
derived in this research. It is an ideal type of CIEXYZ camera with 
three-sensors of the 1931 CIEXYZ color-matching functions. An 
adaptive method of basic vector was firstly carried out, via an 
SVD (Singular Value Decomposition) method. It was used to 
estimate the spectral radiances of tested color objects. Then, a set 
of coefficients was approximated by using the Winner approach [2] 
via the simulated CIEXYZ camera of CIEXYZ-type spectral 
sensitivity functions of sensors. Therefore, the spectral energy 
(radiance) of every pixel in question (on images with known 
profile of XYZ values; here used Adobe type of images) which the 
camera sensor picks up with basis vectors under a known light 
condition (e.g. the D50 illuminat), could be rebuilt by using the 
Wiener method. The spectral reflectance of every pixel considered 
on images could be also accordingly computed. 
Printing Device Characterization 
Modeling Color Behaviour and Subdivision 
Approach for 7-ink CMYKRGB Printing Process 
Following the work derived previously [3,4], A heptatone (7-
color) CMYKRGB process was proposed in this study, as shown 
in Figure 1, to extend the color gamut beyond what can be 
achieved in the conventional CMYK printing system. The 
approach was carried out originally based on the scheme suggested 
by Boll [5]. The derivation of characterization models of 7-ink 
printing process was carried out by measuring a number of colors 
in the IT8.7/4 test target produced using each subset of seven 4-ink 
groupings. These seven 4-ink groupings included CMYK, KGCB, 
KBMR, KRYG, RKYM, GKYC, and BKMC. Each subset 
contained 3 chromatic inks and black ink. Six groups of 4-color 
subsets, except for CMYK subset, represent six adjacent and 
overlapping subgamuts in the supergamut of a 7-ink CMYKRGB 
color space. Each 4-ink set was separately characterized, as strictly 
as a conventional CMYK ink set [4], to define the transform 
between color (i.e. device-independent data) and ink (i.e. device-
independent data) in its corresponding subgamut.. This approach 
resulted in the production of an inktable wherein every color of 
images reproduced was inked with a maximum of 4-inks. 
Broadband and Narrowband approaches 
As mentioned earlier, two issues of “metamerism” and 
“gamuts” were considered in this research. Therefore, two 
approaches of broadband and multispectral narrowband were 
explored in the characterization process of 7-colors of CMYKRGB 
printing device. Both multispectral and broadband approaches of 
models numerically applied both a 3rd-order and a 2nd-order with 
3rd-order polynomial regression equations, respectively. Those 
models were all incorporated with a singular-value decomposition 
(SVD) technique [6]; and each carried out both a forward and a 
reverse transform processes. The forward process maps the device-
dependent data (i.e. FADs, Fractional Dot Areas of four primary 
inks for a color considered in each subset tested) to their device-
independent values (i.e. CIEXYZ, CIELAB, or CIELCH); while 
the reverse process transforms device-independent values (i.e. 
CIEXYZ, CIELAB, or CIELCH) into device-dependent data i.e. 
FDAs). The broadband type of 2nd-SVD model (referred as 2nd-
SVD-BB later) was derived from previous work [4, 7-8]. Also, by 
following a work derived previously, a KCR (Key Component 
Replacement) algorithm which is similar to the GCR (Gray 
Component Replacement) technique in theory was also 
implemented in each of subgamuts in this work for the 3rd-SVD-
MS model. The former 4 of seven 4-ink subsets mentioned above 
all had the key component of black; whereas the latter 3 of 7 
subsets (i.e. RKYM and GKYC, and BKMC) had different key 
components of red, green, and blue respectively. Therefore, The 
KCR refers, e.g. in RKYM and KRYG subgamuts, to reduce key 
components R and K respectively (which are produced using 
paired inks of M & Y, and R & G respectively), and substitute 
b* 
a* 
C 
K 
R
G 
Y 
CY 
CM 
MY 
M 
B 
Extended gamut 
Standard processing gamut 
  
Three steps of procedure were carried out in the camera 
characterization. The first, by applying SVD, all the spectral basis 
vectors, used to reconstruct spectral radiances of objects under the 
D50 illumination condition was found. Here, as mentioned above, 
a GretagMacbeth CCSG was used as a training test target. 
Subsequently, the coefficients matrix was obtained using the 
Wiener method. Therefore, the original spectral reflection (i.e. 
radiance) of objects considered could be rebuilt by multiplication 
of both basis vectors and specific coefficients obtained. So, finally, 
the characterization models, derived via spectral reconstruction 
process using the optimized set/number of basis vectors, could be 
applied under various illumination conditions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. The procedures of the forward and the reverse models used in both the multispectral and broadband types for 7-ink CMYKRGB printing process 
Table 2:  Prediction performances, in terms of mean ΔE00, of four derived Models for transform processes of both the forward 
(denoted as F) and the reverse (denoted as R) under D50 condition. 
CIE00 Colour Difference of Models 
Multispectral Type Broadband Type 
Models 2
nd-SVD-MS-4c 2nd-SVD-MS-7c 3rd-SVD-BB-4c 3rd-SVD-BB-7c 
F R F R F R F R 
Max 6.29 4.16 7.59 9.30 6.07 5.39 9.40 14.56 
Average 1.28 0.70 1.04 0.79 1.38 0.73 1.05 0.73 
ΔE00 >6 Count 1 0 4 7 1 0 4 23 
RMSE (Mean) 0.00145 0.00072 0.00125 0.00098 - - - - 
 
An extensive analysis of color spectra of the full set of 
Munsell Book Glossy Database of 1600 color patches [9] based on 
SVD was used in this study. The purpose of this analysis was to 
statistically look for the most efficient basis number, for a given 
CMYK 
KCGB 
KRMB 
KRGY 
RMYK 
CGYK 
CMBK 
Subsets 
Forward Model
BroadBand Multispectral Band 
3-ink 
process 
Key 
Component 
Look-Up Tables 
DbR, DbY, DrG 
DrK, DgK, DbK 
3rd-SVD 
Regression 
Dr3C, Dg3C, Db3C 
2nd-SVD 
Regression 
Dr4C, Dg4C, Db4C 
XYZ 
KCR Iteration 
Key = 0~100 
Reflectance 
Look-Up Tables 
Rλ1, Rλ2, Rλ3, Rλ4 
3rd-SVD 
Regression 
Minimizing 
RMSE 
Reverse Model
Break 
true false 
LCH 
(for Hue) 
Determine 
Reverse 
Subset 
Forward Model 
Reverse Model 
  
 
Results and Discussions 
Table 2 lists prediction performances of each printer DCMs, 
obtained using the test data set of IT8.7/4. It seems that the 3rd-
SVD-MS-4c and the 3rd-SVD-MS-7c performed very similar. Also, 
the wideband type of two 2nd-SVD-BB models gave reasonable 
results. However, as mentioned earlier, it is needed to concern two 
issues of “metamerism” and “color-gamut” in this study for Hi-Fi 
accurate color reproduction. So, by using the multispectral 
approach, the metamerism had been optimally solved out. As for 
the color-gamut issue, the color-gamut produced on coated paper 
using the 7-ink printing process was also investigated in this study, 
via the comparisons with those of Adobe RGB, ISO coated, and 
CMYK coated media. Both Figure 5 and Table 3 illustrate the 
comparison results. They clearly show that, except Adobe RGB, 
the 7-ink CMYKRGB color printing provided a satisfactorily wide 
color-gamut, and had approximately 35.43% augment to the 
performance of 4-ink printing color gamut. Summarily, the 
multispectral type of 2nd-SVD-MS-7c performed the best. 
Additionally, the results evaluated from psychological 
experiments also strongly verified that the 2nd-SVD-MS-7c 
outperformed the others, and gave satisfactorily Hi-Fi rendering 
quality under all viewing conditions. 
Conclusions 
The research began with by taking two kernels of the matters 
of both “metamerism” and “gamuts” in mind, and intended to 
derive a universally well-performing Hi-Fi multi-color printing 
device characterization model which could be used in the cross-
media color transform for complex images. Therefore, the model 
derived needs to: 1) solve out metamerism problem to achieve the 
optimally requirement of illuminant-independent, and 2) produce 
a color-gamut that could be close to those of displays (used for 
soft-proofing with high-rendition quality) or real dyes. 
Consequently, two types of printing characterization 
algorithms, used in the printing process of 7-ink CMYKRGB 
using FM screening technique, were successfully proposed. Those 
were 2nd-SVD-BB and 3rd-SVD-MS models, applying the 2nd-
order and the 3rd-order with 2nd-order polynomial regression 
equations respectively, via the broadband and the multispectral 
approaches respectively. Satisfactorily, the broadband type could 
be used to perform a colorimetrically correct color-matching of 
color reproduction, but would only under a specified illuminant 
considered. Since the 7-ink (heptatone) gamut approaches those of 
the film and high-quality display, the broadband type could be 
also used to mitigate the problem of mapping unpredictable colors 
onto printable colors (i.e. gamut mapping). As for the 
multispectral one, it could be utilized both, not only to extend 
color gamut in the Hi-Fi multi-color printing system, but also to 
optimally reconstruct the spectral reflectance of colors in question 
(to release the problem of color-matching dependent on 
illuminants). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
References 
[1] V. Ostromoukhov, Chromaticity gamut enhancement by heptatone 
multi-color printing, IS&T/SPIE 1993 International Symposium on 
Electronic Imaging: Science & Technology, Proceedings Conf. 
Device-Independent Color Imaging and Imaging Systems Integration, 
SPIE, 1909, 139-151. (1993). 
[2] W. Ge, L. Chang-jun, Z.. Yun-long, and M. R.. Luo, “Improvement 
in the Estimation of Reflectance Functions Generated Using the 
Basis Vectors”, Photographic Science and Photochemistry, 23(5), 
340-350. (2005) 
[3] M. C. Lo,  C. L. Chen and T. H. Hsieh, Characterization of High-
fidelity Color Printing Devices Based on both Multispectral and 
Broadband Approaches, MCS 2007 Conference: The 9th 
International Symposium on Multispectral Colour Science and 
Application, 36-44. (2007) 
[4] M. C. Lo, R. Chiang, The Characterization Models for Multi-colored 
CMYKRGB, TAGA Proceeding, 242-254. (1998) 
[5] H. Boll, A Color to Colorant Transformation for a Seven Ink Process. 
IS&T’s Third Technical Symposium on Prepress, Proofing, & 
Printing, 3, 31-36. (1993) 
[6] W. H. Press, S. A. Teukolsky, W. T. Vetterling,  and B. P. Flannery, 
Numerical Recipes in C-The Art of Scientific Computing, 2nd edition, 
(Cambridge University Press, 1992). 
[7] M. C. Lo, J. C.Chiang, and L. Shi,  Color Separation for 7-ink 
Printing Using FM Screening, TAGA proceeding, 716-735. (1997). 
[8] M. C., Lo, C. L. Chen,  R. K. Perng, and T. H. Hsieh, The 
Characterisation of Colour Printing Devices via Physical, Numerical 
and LUT Models, CGIV 2006, IS&T’s Third European Conference 
on Color in Graphics, Imaging, and Vision, University of Leeds, UK, 
95-99. (2006). 
[9] J. Orava, The Reflectance Spectra of 1600 Glossy Munsell Color 
Chips. 
(http://spectral.joensuu.fi/databases/download/munsell_spec_glossy_
all.htm) 
[10] M. C. Lo, C. L, Chen, and X. Y. Shen, Characterization of Digital 
Camera Based on Spectral Estimation and Reconstruction, MCS 
2007 Conference: The 9th International Symposium on Multispectral 
Colour Science and Applications, 167-173. (2007) 
[11] C. J. Bartleson and F, Grum, Visual Measurement, (Academic Press, 
Inc, Optical Radiation Measurement , 1984), 5: 455-467. 
表 Y04                                                                 共 4 頁  第 2 頁    
 
在此次 NIP24 研討會的 Oral session 的議題如同前述者乃涵蓋 20 大類，分別為： 
1. 「色粉式印刷材料」(Toner-based printing materials) 
2. 「噴墨印刷製程」(Ink jet printing processes) 
3. 「電子紙和似紙顯示器」(Electronic paper and paper-like displays) 
4. 「光電成像材料和設備」(Phtoelectronic imaging materials and devices ) 
5. 「印刷系統工程及優化」(Printing systems engineering and optimization) 
6. 「成像效能」(Imaging performance) 
7. 「色粉式印刷製程」(Toner-based printing processes) 
8. 「進階和新穎式成像系統」(Advanced and novel imaging systems 
9. 「印刷/相片和影像品質」(Print and image quality) 
10. 「熔化、硬化和乾燥」(Fusing, curing and drying) 
11. 「紡織和布料印刷」(textile and fabric printing) 
12. 「環境議題：規章、綠色標記化、回收利用和再製造」(Environmental issues: 
regulation, green labeling, recycling, remanufacturing ) 
13. 「數位印刷/品管儀器」(Digital printing/quality control instrumentation) 
14. 「色彩科學/影像處理」(Color science/image processing) 
15. 「媒體和數位印刷」(Media and digital printing) 
16. 「安全和刑法印刷」(Security and forensic printing) 
17. 「數位印刷製造和工作流程」(Production digital printing and workflow) 
18. 「熱式印刷」(Thermal printing) 
19. 「商業和工業印刷」(Commercial and industrial printing) 
20. 「數位包裝」(Digital packaging) 
等。 
 
本人參與此次研討會，乃在「色彩科學/影像處理」(Color science/image processing) 的Session
中發表一篇論文，題目為” Characterization of High-Fidelity Color Printing Devices Using 
Illuminant-Independent Approaches for Color Imaging Application”。 
 
另外，此次 NIP 年會中一共安排了 5 場全體出席的演講會，計有 
1. 色粉中燻式非有機材料的評估和管制衝擊 
(Evaluation and regulatory impact of fumed inorganic materials in toners) 
2. 新生醫藥的噴墨技術 
(Inkjet printing technology for regenerative medicine) 
3. 印刷和印刷工業改革 
(The revolution of print and our industry) 
4. 電子數位照相製程的數值性模擬 
(Numerical simulations of electrophotography processes) 
5. 印刷電路的印刷方法 
(Printing methods for printing electronics) 
 
更且，此次 NIP 年會中亦參插舉辦了 3 場聯合座談會，計有 
1. 智慧財產權(Intellectual property panel ) 
2. 環境議題(Environmental issue)  
3. 數位包裝(Digital packaging panel) 
 
