2 
 
storage. In the first year of the project, we 
will replace silicon oxide with the high-k 
materials to be the tunneling oxide, 
blocking oxide or trapping layer. Besides 
establishing the data base of the deposited 
high-k thin films, the electrical effects of 
high-k materials will also be studied using 
CV, IV and DLTS technology of 
measurement. In addition, the whole 
physical models of charge trapping and 
the mechanisms of carriers transport will 
be defined to enhance the performance of 
SONOS memory devices. In the second 
year of the project, we will focus on the 
whole fabrication of the 
Metal-Oxide-Silicon Field Effect 
Transistor (MOSFET) structure. The 
program and erase efficiency will be 
improved by the changes of the device 
structure such as use the nanowires to be 
the channel of the device. Additionally, 
we also extract the electrical 
characteristics of the memory devices 
through whole electrical measurement. 
Keywords：Nonvolatile Memory, ONO, 
High-k 
 
2.Introduction 
 
Today, non-volatile memory (NVM) 
devices attract much attention as the 
requirements of portable products increase. 
However, a dry oxidation process, which 
is above 900℃ , is the most common 
fabricating process to form the memory 
tunneling oxide. Applications of the 
current NVM are limited because the 
devices need a high-quality thermal oxide 
as the tunneling oxide to assure the 
charge-storage ability after a long duration 
operation. In order to low the fabricating 
temperature, low-temperature oxide 
deposited technologies will be critical for 
the next generation NVM. Several 
methods had been proposed to form a 
high-quality oxide at lower temperature 
such as the electron beam gun evaporation, 
atomic layer deposition and the 
supercritical-fluid treatment. However, 
aforesaid methods need an expensive 
instrument or have a throughput issue. 
Recently, nitric acid oxidation has been 
confirmed as a novel and attractive 
method to form a thin and high quality 
oxide at low temperature. We also believe 
that the nitric acid oxidation technology is 
also effective to form the NVM tunneling 
oxide. In addition, previous studies have 
shown the nanocrystals (NCs) devices 
need enough energy to help the NCs to 
aggregate. It is disadvantageous to apply 
the NCs if the NCs need a higher 
fabricating temperature. Self-assembled 
4 
 
be the metal-insulator-silicon (MIS) 
structure to test the quality of the formed 
Al2O3. Then, we also formed the memory 
devices by the sputtering system to 
deposit an about 6-nm-thick CoSi2 film as 
self-assembled trapping layer. 
Subsequently, a rapid thermal annealing 
(RTA) set at 700 °C was performed for 
30s in N2 ambient to form CoSi2 NCs 
structure and improve the quality of the 
Al2O3 film. After the RTA process, a 
50-nm-thick blocking oxide (SiO2) was 
capped by plasma enhanced chemical 
vapor deposition system. Finally, the top 
and bottom Al electrode was patterned to 
form the MOIOS structure. After the 
fabricating of the NCs memory device, 
transmission electron microscopy (TEM) 
and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy 
(XPS) was used to analyze the 
compositions of the Al2O3 and CoSi2 NCs. 
Furthermore, the electrical measurements 
such as capacitance-voltage (C-V), current 
density-voltage (J-V), retention and 
endurance measurements were used to 
investigate the charge-storage ability of 
the formed NVM device. 
3-1-2 (Discussions)  
 
 
Fig. 1 (a) C-V result of the MIS (b) cross-section 
TEM images of the formed CoSi2 nanocrystals 
memory device. 
 
Figure 1 demonstrates the C-V MIS 
structure. It is found the nitric acid 
oxidized Al2O3 (after only 400  RTA ℃
process) shows a negligible hysteresis 
phenomenon at ±3V gate voltage 
operation as shown as the Fig.1(a). The 
electrical results confirm that the quality 
of the Al2O3 is excellent even the oxide 
was formed by the brief nitric acid 
immersion and RTA process. Figure 1 (b) 
6 
 
 
Fig. 3 (a) Memory effect obtained from C-V 
characterization and (b) current density 
measurement of the formed CoSi2 NCs memory 
device. 
 
Figure 3 shows the C-V and J-V 
measurement for the CoSi2 NCs memory 
device. The bidirectional C-V sweeps 
were performed from deep inversion to 
deep accumulation and in reverse, which 
exhibited a flat-band voltage (VFB) shift, 
indicating charge-storage ability of the 
NCs. In Fig. 3(a), it is found that the 
CoSi2 NCs memory device shows a 
memory window of 5V under ± 10 V gate 
voltage operation. The formed Al2O3 can 
hold the charge in the NCs instead to lose 
into the Si-sub. In addition, the J-V result 
indicates as shown Fig.3 (b) indicates the 
low-temperature deposited Al2O3 without 
serious leakage current is potential for the 
application of the tunneling oxide.  
3-1-3 (Conclusion) 
In conclusion, an Al2O3 film formed 
by the nitric acid oxidation is proposed to 
be the tunneling oxide for the CoSi2 NCs 
memory device in this work. Material and 
electrical results assure the Al film can be 
oxidized completely after immersing the 
nitric acid solution. By the fabricating the 
MOIOS structure, the formed CoSi2 NCs 
memory reveals an excellent memory 
effect. A lower temperature but 
high-quality Al2O3 film is advantageous to 
improve the thermal budget issue for the 
thermal oxide demand of the conventional 
NCs memory devices. 
 
(3.2 NiSiGe nanocrystals for 
nonvolatile memory devices) 
 
3-2-1 (Experiment) 
 
The fabrication of memory structure 
was started with a dry oxidation at 950 °C 
to form a 5 nm-thick tunneling oxide on 
p-type (100) Si wafer which had been 
removed native oxide and particles by 
RCA process. Afterward a 6-nm-thick 
NiSiGe thin film was deposited by 
co-sputtering the NiSi2 and Ge targets, 
simultaneously. Then, a 20-nm-thick 
capped oxide was deposited to form a 
tri-layer structure by plasma enhanced 
chemical vapor deposition (PECVD). 
Subsequently, a rapid thermal annealing 
(RTA) at 600 °C was performed for 30s in 
N2 ambient to form NCs structure. After 
the RTA process, a 30-nm-thick blocking 
oxide (SiO2) was capped by PECVD 
system. Finally, Al gate electrode was 
8 
 
 
Fig. 5 (a) The Ge 3d XPS spectra, (b) Raman 
spectroscopy and (c) EDS of the NiSiGe film after 
the thermal annealing. 
 
In order to confirm the attribution of 
the Ge elements during the NCs formation 
process, the related material analyses was 
used. In the result of Ge 3d XPS analysis, 
a binding energy is found at ~31.5 eV, 
reported by the previous literature 
indicated as nickel-germane-silicide 
(Ni-Si-Ge) binding. Additionally, the 
appearance of peak at 29.4 eV means the 
precipitation of the Ge. Fig.5 (b) is the 
Raman spectra of the annealed NiSiGe 
samples. It can be seen that for the 
annealed NiSiGe film, there is a broad 
peak at about 220 cm−1, corresponding to 
the Ni-Si-Ge phase. Whereas a Ge-Ge 
peak peaks at about 300 cm−1, was found 
at 600 °C thermal annealed samples. Also, 
the EDS analysis was used to analyze the 
compositions of the NCs. The electron 
beam was focused at the NCs region about 
10nm during the EDS analysis. We found 
that the NCs composed with Ni, Si and Ge 
elements. Through the results of the 
material analyses, it is believed that the 
main composition of the NCs is not pure 
NiSi2 because the Ge can be the initial 
nucleation centers to form the NCs. 
According the reported literature, the Ge 
elements tend to precipitate during the 
thermal annealing. Compared with the 
NiSi mixed film, the NiSiGe layer offers 
more additional nucleation centers for the 
NC formation. Therefore, the NiSiGe film 
can provide a more complete nucleation 
process and induce a higher size and 
density distribution at lower fabricating 
temperature. 
 
Fig. 6. High-frequency C–V characteristics of the 
MOIOS structures: (a) with NiSi NCs and (b) 
NiSiGe NCs as the trapping layer of the memory 
device. 
 
Figure 6 shows the C-V hysteresis 
after bidirectional sweeps, which implies 
electron charging and discharging effect 
of the MOIOS structure. In Fig. 6(a), the 
conventional NiSi NCs memory device 
shows flat-band voltage (VFB) shift of 
