 2 
capillary pressure exceeds vapor pressure, 
projections occur inside the keyhole. The 
projections increase in size with surface tension 
until gravitational force dominates. The keyhole 
collapse and pore thus is formed. 
 Klemens [11] provided simple analytical 
models to investigate the conditions of energy 
and material flow during keyhole welding and 
determined the factors which govern the shape of 
the vapor-supported cavity and of the molten 
zone. The pressure inside the vapor cavity and its 
variation with depth was governed by surface 
tension, hydrostatic pressure in the liquid, and 
viscous forces acting on the vapor stream. The 
keyhole taper implying collapse of the keyhole 
took place if gas pressure was greater than 
hydrostatic pressure of the liquid layer. 
 Tong and Giedt [12] first used a high 
energy pulsed x-ray source to observe the 
existence of the keyhole but also its oscillations 
in size and shape. Matsunawa, Katayama and 
co-workers [13] used a microfocused x-ray 
transmission imaging system to observe pore 
formation affected by fluid flow, showing that 
large bubbles were primarily formed at the 
bottom of the keyhole and some of them were 
trapped at the solidified wall during floating up. 
 Recently, elaborate and comprehensive 
numerical computations for the fluid flow and 
heat transfer in the keyhole welding have been 
provided. Ki et al. [14] proposed a level set 
method to predict the evolution of keyhole 
considering recoil pressure, multiple reflections 
and fluid flow by tracking free surface movement 
at the gas/liquid interface. The gas flow was 
incompressible and mass transfer was absent on 
the keyhole surface. Ignoring the effects of vapor 
flow in the keyhole, Lee et al. [15] interestingly 
found that the keyhole was unstable even in the 
stationary condition. A protrusion was initiated 
by collision of the upward and downward flows 
due to recoil pressure and surface tension, 
respectively. Rai et al. [16] predicted geometry of 
the keyhole by considering thermal equilibrium 
at the gas and liquid interface and point by point 
heat balance at the keyhole wall. The heat 
transfer outside the keyhole was calculated by 
solving equations of continuity, momentum and 
energy. A vorticity based turbulence model was 
used to estimate the effective viscosity and 
thermal conductivity of liquid metal in the weld 
pool. Zhou et al. [17] calculated the heat transfer, 
fluid flow of the plasma and molten pool in the 
keyhole hole subject to plasma absorption, 
multiple Fresnel reflections during a stationary 
pulsed keyhole laser welding. Deformation of the 
free surface was determined by using the 
volume-of-fluid (VOF) method. It showed that 
pores were formed during the keyhole collapse 
process. 
 The fluid flow and heat transfer in the 
molten pool in thin layer surrounding the core 
region filled with vapor and droplets in the 
keyhole are actually an annular two-phase flow 
in a vertical pipe [18-20], which occurs in many 
practical systems such as evaporators, condensers, 
water-cooled nuclear reactors, and film cooling 
used in rocket motors. The collapse of the 
keyhole is the same phenomenon as the bridging 
of the gas core by liquid from the liquid film and 
a consequent transition to slug flow. 
 If the gas is blown upward through the 
center of a vertical tube in which there is a 
falling film, a shear stress which retards the film 
is set up at the interface. As long as the film 
remains fairly smooth and stable, this shear stress 
is usually small and the film thickness is also 
virtually the same as no gas flow. However, for a 
given liquid rate there is a certain gas flow at 
which very large waves appear on the interface, 
the whole flow becomes chaotic, the gas pressure 
drop increases markedly. This condition is 
known as flooding, at which liquid flow begins to 
travel upward. The flooding point is the result of 
a sudden and dramatic instability which increases 
the pressure gradient by an order of magnitude. 
As the gas and liquid flow rates further increase, 
the concentration of drops in the gas core 
increases; ultimately, droplet coalescence in the 
core leads to large lumps or wisps of liquid in the 
gas core. This regime is characteristic of flows 
with high mass flux.  
 The present work is to propose a 
quasi-steady averaged one-dimensional model to 
simulate collapse and gas entrapment in the 
keyhole. This simple and general method has 
been extensively used to investigate the 
complicated annular two-phase flows and their 
transitions to the slug, churn or mist flows. 
Collapse and instabilities of the keyhole affected 
by compressibility of vapor, droplet entrainment, 
mass transfer, and distinct transport properties 
between vapor and liquid layer, etc. are studied. 
Systematical understanding the effects of the 
vapor and liquid flows in the keyhole on pore 
formation is thus provided.  
 4 
and pressure are, respectively, nondimensionalized 
by the keyhole depth ( h~ ), sensible heat 
( )0(T~c~ cpc ), and base temperature ( )0(T
~
c ) and 
pressure ( )0(p~c ). Negative liquid entrainment 
indicates deposition of the mixture onto the liquid 
layer. In view of different entrainment and 
deposition, the keyhole shape is found to be divided 
into different regions, based on liquid entrainment, 
slight, intermediate and high depositions. 
 Spatial vertical variations of dimensionless 
radius, Mach number, temperature and vapor 
pressure in the keyhole in the absence of liquid 
entrainment, categorized by region 1, are shown in 
Fig. 2(a). To confirm finite-difference prediction 
and convergence, analytical solutions without 
liquid entrainment can be found and shown for 
comparison. They are 
 
 
1
1/ 2 2 4(1 )
c c
c
1 M [2 ( 1)M ] const.
r
κ+
−κ
= + κ − +   
  (5) 
 
 
2 1
c cT [2 ( 1)M ] const.−= + κ − +  (6) 
 
 
2 1
c cp [2 ( 1)M ] const.
κ
−κ
= + κ − +  (7) 
 
where integration constants are determined by 
satisfying Young-Laplace equation at the base. It 
is seen that agreement is pretty good. In contrast 
to Mach number, keyhole temperature decreases 
and then increases in the upward direction. Even 
though keyhole pressure slightly decreases and 
then increases, Young-Laplace equation leads to 
increases and decreases of keyhole radius in the 
upward direction. The keyhole is collapsed and 
enclosed as spherical pore.  
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
 
(d) 
 
Fig. 2 Shape, pressure, temperature and Mach 
number in the keyhole for different regions of 
entrainment, (a) Ej = 0 in region 1, (b) Ej = 
63.3 10−− ×  in region 2, (c) Ej = 65.5 10−− ×  in 
 6 
 
Fig.6 The effect of entrainment on gas temperature in 
the keyhole  
 
 
 
Fig. 7 The effect of entrainment on flow rate in the 
keyhole  
 
 
 
 It is useful to provide a three-dimensional 
representation of the keyhole shape as a function 
of dimensionless entrainment or deposition flux, 
as shown in Fig. 3. For a given dimensionless 
entrainment, the r-z curve represents the 
corresponding shape of the keyhole. As shown in 
Fig. 3(a), it is found that the keyhole shape can 
be divided by entrainment, slight, intermediate 
and high deposition regions, which are, 
respectively, referred to dimensionless 
entrainment fluxes greater than 0 in region 1, 
dimensionless deposition fluxes between 0 
and 63.7 10−×  in region 2, 63.7 10−×  and 
67.7 10−×  in region 3, and greater than 
67.7 10−×  in region 4. The keyhole is enclosed 
subject to entrainment flux, as discussed 
previously. Furthermore, an enhanced 
entrainment flux causes the keyhole to enclose 
rapidly. On the other hand, the wall of the 
keyhole is transformed from smooth, rippling, 
periodic rolling, to irregular wavy surface by 
increasing deposition flux. Therefore the 
deposition plays an important role in oscillations 
of transport variables in the keyhole. Fig. 3(b) 
shows a wider view.  
 The corresponding axial variation of 
dimensionless pressure in the keyhole as a 
function of entrainment flux is shown in Fig. 4. 
It can be seen that dimensionless vapor pressure 
increases as entrainment and deposition fluxes 
increase in regions 1 and 2, respectively. The 
axial dimensionless vapor pressure, however, 
shows periodic rolling in region 3. Very strong 
variations of axial vapor pressure can be found 
in high deposition rate in region 4. Mach number 
versus dimensionless axial coordinate and 
entrainment flux is shown in Fig. 5. Mach 
number reduces with decreasing dimensionless 
entrainment flux and increasing deposition flux. 
In contrast to a pronounced increase for 
entrainment flux, the axial variation of Mach 
number in high deposition flux drops rapidly 
near the base and maintains relatively uniform 
with slight oscillations away from the base. The 
axial variation of dimensionless temperature 
affected by entrainment flux is shown in Fig. 6. 
A decrease in entrainment flux and increase in 
deposition flux result in vapor temperature to 
increase. Temperature is insensitive to the 
variation of deposition flux in region 3. As 
deposition flux is high in region 4, vapor 
temperature becomes strongly oscillatory. Fig. 7 
shows the effects of dimensionless entrainment 
flux on the axial mass flow rate in the keyhole. 
Mass flow rate decreases, as entrainment flux 
decreases and deposition fluxes increases. Mass 
flow rates in upper regions can be negative in 
regions 3 and 4. This is because high deposition 
rate on the keyhole wall is greater than the 
upward mass flow from the keyhole base. Mass 
flow rate shows periodic variations in high 
deposition flux.  
 Figs. 8(a) (b) shows the schematic sketch of 
pore formation. It can be seen that the 
relationship between the keyhole collapse with 
final pore size. Figs. 9(a) and (b) show the pore 
size increases with decreasing the drilling 
velocity and energy dissipiation, base Mach 
number, and increasing surface tension 
parameter, respectively.  
 8 
[10] Tsukamoto, S., Arakane, G., Honda, H., and 
Kuroda, S., 2004, Proc. 23th Int. Congress on Appl. 
Lasers & Electro-Optics 2004, 11-17. 
[11] Klemens, P. G., 1976, J. Applied Physics, 
47, 2165-2174. 
[12] Tong, H., and Giedt, W. H., 1969, The Rev. 
Sci. Instruments, 40, 1283-1285. 
[13] Seto, N., Katayama, S., and Matsunawa, A., 
2001,Welding Int., 15, 191-202. 
[14] Ki, H., Mohanty, P. S., and Mazumder, J., 
2002, Metall. Mater. Trans., 33A, 1817-1830. 
[15] Lee, J. Y., Ko, S. H., Farson, D. F., and Yoo, 
C. D., 2002, J. Physics D: Applied Physics, 35, 
1570-1576. 
[16] Rai, R., Roy, G. G., and DebRoy, T., 2006, 
unpublished work. 
[17] Zhou, J., Tsai, H. L., and Wang, P. C., 2006, 
J. Heat Transfer, 128, 680-690. 
[18] Wallis, G. B., 1969, One-Dimensional 
Two-Phase Flow, McGraw-Hill, New York. 
[19] Hewitt, G. F., 1982, “Chapter 2, Liquid-Gas 
Systems,”Handbook of Multiphase Systems, 
Hemisphere Pub., New York. 
[20] Collier, J. G., and Thome, J. R., 1994, 
Convective Boiling and Condensation, 3rd ed., 
Clarendon Press, Oxford. 
[21] Shapiro, A. H., 1953, The Dynamics and 
Thermodynamics of Compressible Fluid Flow, 2 
vols.,Wiley, New York. 
96年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：魏蓬生 計畫編號：96-2221-E-110-068-MY3 
計畫名稱：高能量銲接氣孔形成之機制研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備註（質化說明：
如數個計畫共同
成果、成果列為
該期刊之封面故
事...等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  國外 論文著作 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
專書 1 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
多篇期刊論文正在撰寫中 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
