「兆級晶片系統前瞻技術研究」之子計畫五： 
兆級晶片系統中晶片內通訊電路及系統設計 
計畫編號：NSC96-2221-E-002-243 
執行期限：94/08/01~97/07/31 
計畫主持人：吳安宇 教授 E-mail：andywu@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw 
執行單位：台灣大學電子工程學研究所 
一、 中文摘要 
本計畫負責兆級電晶體電路及系統的晶
片內通訊設計。隨著製程科技的演進，
晶片內所能容納的電晶體數目急遽增
加，而其尺寸也相對減小。當晶片內 IP
之間需要互相傳遞訊號時，其間的傳輸
通道會因此而日益惡化。如何提供晶片
內 IP 間可靠的晶片內 IP 間訊號傳遞技
術以及如何降低訊號傳輸間的連線複雜
度將是未來兆級電晶體晶片系統
(TS-SoC)設計中最急需克服的重要設計
議題之一。在本計畫中，將研究如何利
用晶片內通訊之技術解決上述問題。 
 
二、 英文摘要 
In this project, our research focuses on 
on-chip communication design of the 
Trillion-Scale system-on-chip. As 
manufacturing technology scales down, 
number of transistors on a chip increases 
dramatically, and size of these transistor 
also decreases rapidly. These trends reduce 
communication quality between on-chip 
intellectual properties (IP).In the future 
trillion-scale system-on-chip design, 
developing reliable communication 
technology between IPs and reducing 
connection wire complexity are among the 
most important design issues. In this 
project, we focus on solving these 
problems by developing new on-chip 
communication techniques. 
 
三、 計畫原由與目的 
As the complexity of SoC systems is 
increasing, it is hard to interconnect a 
variety of IPs. OCN (On-Chip Networking) 
system is a new method to solve the chip 
communication problems. Based upon 
pre-defined components and architecture, 
 Fig. 1 Proposed BMAP flow chart 
 
 Fig. 2 is the simulation results of 
binomial mapping of BMAP comparing 
with NMAP, PMAP, GMAP and PBB. In 
application 1 (VOPD), the bandwidth is 
improved to 0.98 but the hop number is 
increased to 1.02. The case of application 
2 (MPEG4) is similar. It means that the 
binomial merging algorithm of BMAP 
efficiently get a better semi-greedy 
bandwidth-optimized result and can 
substitute the initial phase of NMAP if 
necessary. TABLE1 shows that BMAP 
reduces up to 89% bandwidth and 68% 
HW cost. The traffic ratio and HW cost 
ratio can be defined as follows. 
 
 
(a)Total traffic load chart. 
  
(b) Total traffic load table. 
 
(c)Hop count chart. 
 
(d) Hop count table. 
Fig. 2 Simulation results of BMAP. 
 
 
 
proposed dynamic channel flow control. 
 
 Fig. 5 shows the average latency of 
wormhole flow control and dynamic 
channel flow control on a function of the 
offered traffic. Dynamic channel flow 
control improves 10% latency with single 
dynamic channel to be added. With two 
dynamic channels, the throughput raises 
to 55%. By adding one more dynamic 
channel further improves one dynamic 
channel by 5% and improves wormhole 
by 15%. Finally, we place 4 dynamic 
channels into the router and the 
throughput is enhanced around 65%. Thus, 
comparing the result of various channel 
sizes, we found that each added dynamic 
channel improves around 5%. 
 
Fig. 5 Average latency comparison of flow control 
mechanisms in generic wormhole flow control and 
dynamic channel flow control with different 
channels on an 8 x 8 mesh topology. 
 
 
Fig. 6 Average latency comparison of the generic 
virtual channel flow control and the proposed 
dynamic channel flow control simulated on an 8 x 
8 mesh topology. 
 
Fig. 6 shows the comparison on average 
latency between virtual channel flow 
control and proposed dynamic channel 
flow control at different constant traffic 
injection rate. The proposed flow control 
with 36 flits per router reduces the 
average latency of virtual channel flow 
control with 40 flits per router by 60% at 
0.6 traffic capacity. The proposed 
dynamic channel flow control has higher 
efficiency of the channel buffer and lower 
the transmission latency in comparison 
packet is routed along y dimension first 
till the y coordinate is the same as the 
destination. Then, the packet is routed 
along x dimension till the destination. The 
possible cases in the Default Routing are 
shown in Fig. 7. The symbol E (O) means 
that packets turn at even (odd) columns. 
The Default Routing in the OAPR 
contains the turns at odd columns which 
are not included in the E-XY. Therefore, 
the OAPR can balance traffic loads 
between odd and even columns. When 
routing path is blocked by OIP, OAPR 
has two major features to solve the 
problem, as described as follows: 
 
Fig. 7 8 possible cases of default routing of OAPR 
 
1. Avoid routing paths along boundaries 
of OIPs: In the environment of faulty 
meshes, we can only know the 
information of faulty blocks at real time. 
However, the locations of OIPs are 
known in advance. Therefore, the OAPR 
can avoid routing paths along boundaries 
of OIPs and reduce the traffic loads 
around OIPs. With these features, the 
OAPR can achieve more balanced traffic 
loads in irregular meshes. Fig. 8-10 
shows the way packets route through a 
OIP blocked in x, y, and northeast 
directions, respectively. 
 
Fig. 8 Routing path for packets blocked in y 
direction 
 
Fig. 9 Routing path for packets blocked in x 
direction 
OIPs, or f-chain to detour OIPs. 
Table 2. Result of STLD 
 
To compare the performance of the Chen 
and Chiu’s, the E-XY and the OAPR, 
three statistical cases (case I, II, and III) 
are simulated according to different OIP 
placements. The case I, II, and III 
correspond to Single OIP, Multiple OIPs, 
and f-chain, respectively. 
The STLD (Statistical traffic load 
distribution) represents the number of 
packets of all source-destination pairs 
passing through the corresponding routers. 
According to the distribution we can 
predict whether the traffic loads of a 
network are balanced or not, and the 
regions where the contention might be 
more serious. According to Havg and σ 
shown in TABLE 2, the OAPR causes 
shorter routing paths and balanced 
statistical traffic loads in the irregular 
mesh. And traffic distributions for three 
routing algorithms in Case II (Multiple 
OIPs) are illustrated in Fig. 14, we can 
see OAPR can make network traffic more 
balanced; 
 
(a)  (b) 
(c) (d) 
Fig. 14 Case II : (a) multiple OIPs and the STLDs 
of (b) the E-XY, (c) the Chen and Chiu’s, and (d) 
the OAPR. 
 
Fig. 15 represents results of dynamic 
simulation, Fig. 15(a), 15(b), and 15(c) 
shows the latency vs. injection rate results 
simulation results of case I, II, and III, 
respectively. Rent’s rule (Rent) traffic 
patterns are utilized to model the first hop 
accounts for the bulk of OCN traffic. It 
means that communication between 
neighboring routers is the primary 
contributor to OCN congestion and power 
consumption. The improvement is 
五、 結論與討論 
In this project, we proposed three key 
results:  
1. A fast binomial mapping algorithm 
(BMAP) and dynamic channel 
allocation flow control. Applying 
BMAP in real video applications, 
VOPD and MPEG-4, the bandwidth of 
BMAP can save 45 % and the 
hardware cost is reduced from 51% to 
85% in our simulation.  
2. Proposed dynamic channel allocation 
flow control can reduce 52% latency 
with less buffer sizes comparing with 
traditional virtual channel flow 
control.  
3. A new routing algorithm, OAPR, 
based on the odd-even turn model for 
irregular mesh-based OCNs. Due to 
the turn model, virtual channels are not 
needed to solve deadlock. Besides, 
traffic loads on the boundaries of OIPs 
can be alleviated, and the loads of the 
network are evenly dispersed. The 
experiments prove that the OAPR has 
lower latency and gives 13.3%~100% 
improvement compared the other two 
fault-tolerant algorithms. Moreover, 
implementing the algorithm is feasible 
because of the negligible overhead 
(less than 1%). In conclusion, the 
OAPR has better performance and is 
feasible for on-chip networks. 
六、 參考文獻 
[1] S. Murali and G. De Micheli, 
“Bandwidth Constrained Mapping of 
Cores onto NoC Architectures,” Proc. 
Conf. DATE, 2004. 
[2] Wein-Tsung Shen, Chih-Hao Chao, 
Yu-Kuang Lien and An-Yeu (Andy) Wu 
“A New Binomial Mapping and 
Optimization Algorithm for 
Reduced-Complexity Mesh-Based 
On-Chip Network,” First International 
Symposium on Networks-on-Chip, pp. 
317-322, 2007.  
[3] W. J. Dally, and B. Towles, “Route 
Packets, Not Wires: On-Chip 
Interconnection Networks,” In 
Proceedings of the 38th Design 
Automation Conference, Jun. 2001, pp. 
684 – 689 
[4] W. J. Dally, “Virtual-channel flow 
control,” IEEE Transactions on 
Architecture and Design Methodology,” 
in Proc. Int’l Symp. VLSI, 2002, pp. 
105-112 
[16] E. Bolotin, I. Cidon, R. Ginosar, and A. 
Kolodny, “QNoC: QoS Architecture and 
Design Process for Network on Chip,” 
Journal of Systems Architecture, vol. 50, pp. 
105-128, Feb. 2004. 
[17] M.K.F Schafer, T. Hollstein, H. Zimmer, 
M. Glesner, “Deadlock-Free Routing and 
Component Placement for Irregular 
Mesh-Based Networks-on-Chip,” in 
ICCAD, pp. 238-245, 2005. 
[18] K-H. Chen and G-M. Chiu, 
“Fault-Tolerant Routing Algorithm for 
Meshes without Using Virtual 
Channels,” Journal of Information Science 
and Engineering, vol.14, pp.765-783, Dec. 
1998. 
[19] R. V. Boppana and S. Chalasani, 
“Fault-Tolerant Wormhole Routing 
Algorithms for Mesh Networks,” IEEE 
Trans. Computers, vol. 44, pp. 848-864, 
1995. 
[20] Jie Wu, “A Fault-Tolerant and 
Deadlock-Free Routing Protocol in 2D 
Meshes Based on Odd-Even Turn 
Model,” IEEE Trans. Computers, vol. 52, 
pp. 1154-1169, Sept. 2003. 
[21] R. Holsmark and S. Kumar, “Design 
Issues and Performance Evaluation of 
Mesh NoC with Regions,” in NORCHIP, 
Oulu, Finland, pp. 40-43, 2005. 
[22] G.J. Glass and L.M. Ni, “The Turn Model 
for Adaptive Routing,” J. ACM, vol. 40, 
pp. 874-902, Sept. 1994. 
[23] G.M. Chiu, “The Odd-Even Turn Model 
for Adaptive Routing,” IEEE Trans. 
Parallel and Distributed Systems, vol. 11, 
pp. 729-737, July 2000. 
[24] J. Hu and R. Marculescu, “DyAD - Smart 
Routing for Networks-on-Chip,” in Proc. 
of DAC., pp. 260-263, June 2004. 
[25] J. Hu and R. Marculescu, “Energy- and 
Performance-Aware Mapping for 
Regular NoC Architecture,” IEEE Trans. 
Computer-Aided Design of Integrated and 
Systems, vol. 24, pp. 551-562, Apr. 2005. 
[26] Daniel Greenfield, Arnab Banerjee, 
Jeong-Gun Lee and Simon Moore , 
“Implications of Rent's Rule for NoC 
Design and Its Fault-Tolerance,” In Proc. 
of the ACM/IEEE Int. Symp. on 
Networks-on-Chip (NOCS-2007), Princeton, 
出國參加國際會議報告
一、參加會議過程
2007年IEEE信號處理系統研討會(IEEE Workshop on Signal Processing
Systems ) 於十月十七日至十九日在中國上海舉行，今年的議程主題為「SoC for
Multimedia Networking」，今年共有299篇來自世界36個國家的論文投稿，而在
經過技術委員會仔細評選及審核後，共選出130篇論文於議程中發表，錄取率約
為43%，足見競爭之激烈與大會對論文品質的要求。
此次大會針對議程的主題，共邀請了三位專家學者做系列專題演講，茲分別
敘述如下：
． Wireless Sensors Networks & DSP: Marriage Made in Heaven
(Presented by: Magdy A. Bayoumi, University of Louisiana at Lafayette)
． Toward 3D-Video: Challenge and solution
(Presented by: Liang-Gee Chen, National Taiwan University)
． Wireless Multimedia Communications: A Tele-Presence Paradigm for
Anyone, Anywhere, Anytime-or the Dawn of the "World Wide Wait”?
(Presented by: Lajos Hanzo, University of Southampton)
這三場演講分別於大會議期三天的開場舉行，做為引言，分別對三天的議程
主題做了深入的介紹，讓與會者們對不同的研究主題有了更前瞻性的認知與瞭
解。
計畫編號 NSC96-2220-E-002-243
計畫名稱 兆級晶片系統前瞻技術研究-子計畫五:兆級晶片系統中晶片內通訊電路及系統設計(3/3)
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
吳安宇台大電子所教授
會議時間地點 2007/10/17~19 中國上海
會議名稱
2007 IEEE信號處理系統研討會
2007 IEEE Workshop on Signal Processing Systems
發表論文題目
1. Multilevel LINC System Design For Power Efficiency Enhancement
2. Reconfigurable Color Doppler DSP Engine For High - Frequency Ultrasonic Image
Systems
3. Robust Packet Detector based Automatic Gain Control Algorithm for OFDM-based
UWB systems
4. On The Fixed-Point Properties of Mixed-Scalling-Rotation CORDIC Algorithm
5. Dynamic Channel Flow Control of Networks-on-Chip Systems for High Buffer
Efficiency
出國參加國際研討會報告
二、 會議簡介與重要性
2007 Asian Solid-State Circuits Conference (A-SSCC)在韓國濟州島舉辦。
ASSCC 會議是亞洲地區電路與系統方面最重要的會議，在此會議中傑出的論文
更有可能被推舉發表於ISSCC 中。同時，大家可以透過會議中的報告與討論，
了解亞洲地區不同國家的科技發展近況，以及研究特色，對學生的未來研究幫助
匪淺。透過會議的交流也可認識許多國外的研究生與學者，增加未來國際合作的
機會。
ASSCC 正規會議共有三天，每天都有Lecture 議程，內容十分緊湊、精采。
ASSCC 較嚴謹之處在於他還有會議前的Rehearsal，所以每一篇上場報告的Paper
都有相當好的Quality。會場並伴隨有Student Design Contest，可以讓大家觀摩許
多新鮮前瞻且完整的設計成果，這個部份也是非常吸引大家目光的地方。此外，
在會場中也會遇到相當多研究成果卓越的教授，和他們聊天及討論他們的研究成
果讓我們獲益良多。
今年ASSCC 議程Keynote Speech 安排的主題主要有兩類：一個是市場趨勢
以及韓國半導體業近況的介紹，另一個則是前瞻技術的介紹，其中最令我感興趣
的是介紹Intel 新的45nm CPU 架構的部分，演講者除了介紹許多新使用的架構
設計，也特別介紹了許多低功率的設計，這是未來前瞻製程下都會遭遇到的設計
挑戰，因此也特別吸引大家的專注。
2006 年跟韓國有相關合作的各Foundry 廠wafer 總數統計Intel 45nm CPU
中採用的新設計技術Intel 45nm CPU 中採用的Low Power 技術以及Power
Saving 的成效。
三、 出席會議貢獻
我的Lecture報告是在ASSCC會議最後一天11/14，題目是" A0.13μm 
Hardware-Efficient Probabilistic-Based Noise-Tolerant Circuit Design and
計畫編號 NSC96-2220-E-002-243
計畫名稱 兆級晶片系統前瞻技術研究-子計畫五:兆級晶片系統中晶片內通訊電路及系統設計(3/3)
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
魏一勤台大電子所博士班學生
會議時間地點 96年 11 月 12 日 至 96 年 11 月 14 日韓國濟州島
會議名稱 2007 Asian Solid-State Circuits Conference (A-SSCC)
發表論文題目
A 0.13μm Hardware-Efficient Probabilistic-Based Noise-Tolerant Circuit
Design and Implementation with 24.5dB Noise-Immunity Improvement
