Small Intestinal Submucosa (SIS) Mediated Adeno-Associated Virus Serotype 
2 (AAV2) Transduction 
 
W.-C. Chien 簡煒哲#, T.-W. Yu 余則威#, S-J. Tseng 曾士傑# and S.-C. Tang 湯學成* 
#Authors contributed equally to this work; NSC 94-2218-E-007-051 
 
Department of Chemical Engineering, National Tsing Hua University 
國立清華大學 化學工程學系 
 
 
Abstract 
 
A major challenge in the use of gene 
transfer vectors as therapeutic tools is to 
control vector administration at the desired 
tissue site.  Potential approaches to address 
this issue include implantation of tissue-
engineering constructs loaded with gene 
transfer vectors such as viruses for localized 
transgene delivery.  In the present study, we 
applied a naturally occurring biomaterial 
⎯small intestinal submucosa (SIS)⎯as the 
scaffold to bind with adeno-associated virus 
serotype 2 (AAV2) and subsequently 
transduce the infiltrated target cells.  The 
SIS used in this work is an acellular 
extracellular matrix derived from porcine 
gut, which is naturally abundant with AAV2 
receptors: heparin sulfate proteoglycans and 
heparin.  Using recombinant fluorescent 
proteins as the transgene reporter, we 
demonstrated that the binding of AAV2 
particles to the SIS matrix was reversible, 
and the infiltrated human HT-1080 
fibroblasts can be transduced by AAV2 in 
culture.  The implications of our findings in 
using the AAV2-SIS system to mediate 
localized transgene delivery are discussed. 
 
Keywords: adeno-associated virus; scaffold; 
small intestinal submucosa; transduction  
  
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
 
An obstacle in applying gene transfer 
vectors as therapeutic tools is the inability to 
control the location where the vectors are 
planned to target.  This is because vectors 
administered to a particular physiological 
location by conventional methods, e.g., 
injections, often diffuse to tissues/organs 
away from their initial point [1,2].  This 
uncontrolled vector administration can cause 
two problems: i) a decrease in vector titer at 
the target site resulting in reduced gene 
transfer efficiency and ii) an undesired 
transduction/transfection at the distant site, 
which could cause ectopic gene expression 
and raise safety concerns. 
 
Among many attempts to address this 
vector administration issue, the application 
of tissue-engineering constructs as vehicles 
for binding and delivery of gene transfer 
vectors has recently received noticeable 
attention [3-5].  Both synthetic polymers 
such as poly(lactide-co-glycolide) (PLG) 
and ethylene vinyl-co-acetate (EVAv), and 
natural polymers such as collagen, gelatin 
and chitosan have been used as the scaffold 
matrix for incorporation of plasmid DNA or 
viral particles for localized transgene 
delivery.  In this work, we aim to develop an 
adeno-associated virus serotype 2 (AAV2, 
currently in phase II clinical trials) delivery 
system using small intestinal submucosa 
(SIS) as the vehicle scaffold.  The 
References 
 
[1] Gelse K, Jiang QJ, Aigner T, Ritter T, 
Wagner K, Poschl E, et al. Fibroblast-
mediated delivery of growth factor 
complementary DNA into mouse joints 
induces chondrogenesis but avoids the 
disadvantages of direct viral gene transfer. 
Arthritis Rheum 2001; 44(8):1943-1953. 
[2] Fechner H, Haack A, Wang H, Wang X, 
Eizema K, Pauschinger M, et al. Expression 
of Coxsackie adenovirus receptor and 
alpha(v)-integrin does not correlate with 
adenovector targeting in vivo indicating 
anatomical vector barriers. Gene Ther 1999; 
6(9):1520-1535. 
[3] Pannier AK, Shea LD. Controlled 
release systems for DNA delivery. Mol Ther 
2004; 10(1):19-26. 
[4] Bellocq NC, Kang DW, Wang XH, 
Jensen GS, Pun SH, Schluep T, et al. 
Synthetic biocompatible cyclodextrin-based 
constructs for local gene delivery to improve 
cutaneous wound healing. Bioconjugate 
Chem 2004; 15(6):1201-1211. 
[5] Huang YC, Riddle K, Rice KG, Mooney 
DJ. Long-term in vivo gene expression via 
delivery of PEI-DNA condensates from 
porous polymer scaffolds. Hum Gene Ther 
2005; 16(5):609-617. 
[6] Brown-Etris M, Cutshall WD, Hiles MC. 
A new biomaterial derived from small 
intestine submucosa and developed into a 
wound matrix device. Wounds 
2002;14(4):150-166. 
[7] Hurst RE, Bonner RB. Mapping of the 
distribution of significant proteins and 
proteoglycans in small intestinal submucosa 
by fluorescence microscopy. J Biomat Sci-
Polym E 2001; 12(11):1267-1279. 
 
Acknowledgements: This work was 
supported primarily by the National Science 
Council, Taiwan under Award Number NSC 
94-2218-E-007-051. We thank Cook 
Biotech, Inc. for supplying the small 
intestinal submucosa and Dr. S.R. 
Wickramasinghe for helpful suggestions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Macroscopic (A) and microscopic 
(B) images of small intestinal submucosa 
(SIS) showing the membrane-like structure 
and the collagen fiber network [6]. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Preparation of the AAV2-SIS 
binding in a 24-well plate. 
(A) 
(B) 
6-mm diameter SIS immobilized on 
the surface of a 24-well plate before 
incubation with AAV2 solution 
