1 
???????????????????? 
??????????????????????(II) 
A Study on the Interaction Styles of Weblog Systems for Aged 
People (II) 
? ? ? ??NSC 96-2221-E-036-024 
? ? ? ??96 ? 08 ? 01 ?? 97 ? 07 ? 31 ? 
? ? ?????   ??????????? 
?????????   ?????????? 
    ???   ????????????????? 
??????????????????   ??????????? 
 
?????? 
?????????????????
???????????????????
????????????????????
????????????????????
????????????????????
????????????????????
????????????????????
????????????????????
???????????????????
????????????????????
????????????????????
????????????????????
????????????????????
????????????????????
????????????????????
??????????????????? 
??????????????????? 
 
Abstract 
Although many people had benefited from 
blogging, most tools were designed and used by 
young people. However, some literature had 
indicated older adults are the fastest-growing 
group of internet users. In order to provide 
user- friendly interfaces for aged people, this 
research studied their social communication 
tools, the media sources from which they obtain 
knowledge, and their motivations to use Blogs. 
Based on the results of survey and literature 
review, three desktop and two mobile Weblog 
prototypes with different user interface 
metaphors were constructed. These prototypes 
differed in the interface metaphor and 
navigation aids. The experiment results showed 
that the combined metaphor of Instant 
Messaging and E-mail tools were significantly 
better than others in the degree of satisfaction. In 
addition, SOS help and voice recording are 
necessary functions for them. Based on the 
results of experiments, design principles and 
modified prototypes for desktop and mobile 
versions were proposed. 
 
Keywords : Weblog, User Interface Design, 
Aged People 
3 
?????? 
3.1  LIFESTYLE SURVEY 
In order to study the social lifestyles of the 
elders, questionnaire surveys were conduced 
among 30 people (12 female and 18 male). The 
mean and standard deviation of their ages were 
60.19 and 4.95, respectively.  
To study their social communication styles, 
each question in the questionnaire was 
accompanied with an open question that 
inquired the participant if he or she had 
encountered any inconvenience in his or her 
social lifestyle. The questionnaire had been 
designed to understand their expectations and 
preferences for weblogs. Their responses 
showed that telephone was the major 
communication tool in their social life. However, 
they did encounter some problems while using 
the telephone as the communication tool. These 
problem included the person to contact might be 
away and out of home while calling, certain 
concerns might be too embarrassing to express 
through phone, the phone number of the person 
to contact might be unavailable, and it’s difficult 
to talk to someone and initiate the conversation 
if they had not meet each other for a long time. 
Their responses showed that Blogs could be a 
potential solution to solve these problems. 
Since few people at this age had the 
experience of using Blogs, the participants were 
invited to create their own Blogs on a remote 
and representative hosting website with the help 
of the researchers at their home. After 
performing typical tasks on the Blog, they were 
asked to complete the questionna ire. First, 
participants indicated the degree of frequency in 
using ten different media sources through a 
7-point Likert scale. Second, participants 
selected the items from a list or provided their 
own reasons that would drive them to blogging.  
In order to categorize the elders based on 
their knowledge sources, the degree of 
frequency in using different media were used as 
the feature for Hierarchical Cluster Analysis. 
Therefore, three groups of participants were 
identified. The first group (9 participants) used 
TV programs as the major media. The second 
group (9 participants) preferred reading 
newspaper and chatting with people. The third 
group (12 participants) adopted a wide variety of 
media, such as TV, newspaper, magazines, 
books, or Internet. It showed that, overall, more 
than 20% of participants were willing to 
exchange their knowledge through Blogs. In 
addition, the effects of knowledge sources on 
the motivation of using Blogs were analyzed. 
The results indicated that more than 60% of the 
people in TV-dominant group and more than 
40% of the people in Multi-source group were 
willing to use Blogs as the platform for 
knowledge exchange. However, no one in 
Newspaper and chatting oriented group would 
like to use Blogs as the platform to deliver their 
knowledge and experience. These results served 
as the information for the authors to develop 
prototypes and functions of blogging tools for 
aged people in the following sections. 
 
3.2  WEBLOG PROPOTYPE DESIGN 
Three desktop and two mobile Weblog 
prototypes with different user interface 
metaphors were constructed for comparison. 
Based on the data from the preliminary survey 
and user interface design principles for elderly 
people, only the most basic functions were kept 
on the main page, the operating procedure was 
minimized, and the push button area was 
5 
In addition to desktop versions, two 
prototypes for mobile blogging were developed. 
These prototypes differed in the navigation aids 
and graphic icons (Figures 4 and 5). The feature 
of MOblog was the list-style menus. Different 
stratifications were presented with different 
colors so that users can know well in which page 
they were. The characteristic of PHOblog was 
the image-style menus, which applied cell 
phone’s concept to moblog and seemed more 
familiar to users in operation.  
 
Figure 4: The screen flow of MOblog. 
 
Figure 5: The screen flow of PHOblog. 
 
3.3  PROTOTYPE EVALUATION 
In order to evaluate different design solutions, 
six typical tasks were assigned to 15 participants 
(10 female and 5 male) to experience the user 
interface of these prototypes using cognitive 
walkthrough approach. The mean and standard 
deviation of their ages were 61.27 and 5.12, 
respectively.  
Since every participant had to perform 
tasks with respect to three prototypes, the order 
of visiting the prototypes was randomly 
permutated to avoid learning effects. At the 
beginning of each session, a short tutorial was 
offered to help participants understand the basic 
functions of each prototype. For each tasks, the 
degree of intuitiveness was recorded. After 
performing all tasks, the participants also 
completed a post-test questionnaire to indicate 
their preferences among three prototypes and 
provide comments.  
 
3.4  RESULTS 
Based on the analysis of results, the combined 
metaphor of Instant Messaging and E-mail tools 
were significantly better than others in some 
design features such as button, window, layout 
and style. The comments also showed that aged 
people like big screens and big buttons with 
photos of other Blog owners. It was necessary to 
incorporate the SOS and recording functions. 
Therefore, the desktop and mobile UIs were 
redesigned and shown in Figures 6 and 7. 
 
 
Figure 6: The redesigned Desktop Weblog. 
 ??????????????? 
 
????? ??:??? 
??:Li-Chieh Chen 
????? ????????? 
??:?????????????? ? ? ? ?        
?     ?       ??: 2nd International Conference on Applied Human Factors and Ergonomics 
??: ?????? 
??: Metaphorical user interface design of video blog tools for aged people 
? ? ? ?        ? 97? 7? 14?? 97? 7? 17? ?? (??????) Las Vegas, Nevada USA 
?????(?????????????????????????) 
(1) ??????? 
?????????????????? 29??????????????????????????
??????????????????????????????????? Physical Ergonomics, 
Cognitive Ergonomics, S cial & Organizational Ergonomics, Ergonomics & Usability Evaluation, 
Healthcare & Special Populations, Safety, Ergon mics in Manufacturing???????????
????????? Switzerland University of Applied Sciences ? Dr. Hartmut Schulze????
ARUP ???????????? Ian Rowe???????????????????????????? 
 
(2) ??? 
??????????????????????????????????????????????
??????????????????????????????????????????????
??????????????????????????????????????????????
?????????????? Shell Oil Company ??????????????????????? 
??????????????????????????????????????????????
?????????????? 
 
(3) ?????????? 
Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Applied Human Factors and Ergonomics ???????? 
 
 
 
 
????? A4 ??????? 
 
mainly for young people. Based on population statistics, aging society is a trend in 
developed countries. Since the physical and psychological conditions of aged people 
may degrade, their social activities reduce dramatically. For these people, increase the 
satisfaction of social life is very important.  However, current Blog tools do not 
consider the limitation of aged people. The complexity of user interfaces may reduce 
their willingness in using such tools for social communications. Therefore, in order to 
provide user-friendly interfaces for aged people, the objective of this research was to 
elicit their demands and provide guidelines for user interface design of Weblog tools 
based on the empirical results of prototype evaluation. 
 
 
LITERATURE REVIEW 
 
Blogging tools provide people with personalized, web-based and community-supported 
platforms to share their experiences without writing HTML code or program. Bloggers 
just need to concentrate on the content  (Lindahl and Blount, 2003; Walsh, 2007). After 
a survey of 212 blog participants, some literature had indicated that ease of use, 
enjoyment, and knowledge sharing were positively related to attitude toward blogging. 
On the other hand, social factors (community identification) and attitude toward 
blogging significantly influenced a blog participant’s intention to continue to use blogs 
(Hsu and Lin, 2008). In order to investigate Weblog success from a Weblog-building 
technology perspective, one hundred twenty-six highly successful weblogs were 
tracked over a period of three months (Du and Wagner, 2006). The results showed 
that Weblog success was associated with the type of blogging tool used. The findings 
also suggested that technology characteristics affected the presentation and 
organization of Weblog content as well as the social interaction between bloggers, 
which in turn affected Weblog success and popularity. In their taxonomy, blogging 
tools differed in their capabilities from Type I (for creating link-driven text diaries or 
presentation weblogs), to Type II (which offers content administration capability with 
rich interface and between-blog connectivity), and to Type III, with integrated 
applications aiming to enrich social interactions among bloggers (Du and Wagner, 
2006).  
With the advent of Blog technologies, many researchers had considered the possibility 
of using Blogs for promoting tourism (Lin and Huang, 2006), facilitating cooperative 
learning (Wang et al., 2005), and enhancing distance learning (Lin et al., 2006). Their 
findings suggested that Blogs were effective for students to document their learning, 
share experience and knowledge, have direct interaction with peers especially 
internationally (Lin et al., 2006). Furthermore, if properly controlled, some companies 
or organization can make effective use of the medium. For an employee, a weblog can 
provide a space to share passion for work, to document and organize ideas and work 
practices, to find and engage others inside and outside the organization. For an 
employer, this can result in accelerated information flow, increased productivity, 
improved reputation and customer engagement  (Efimova and Grudin, 2007). 
Although many people had benefited from Blog technologies, these tools were 
designed and used mainly for young people. The physical and psychological limitations 
of elderly people did not obtain much attention. However, some literature had 
indicated older adults are the fastest-growing group of internet users (Hart et al., 
2006). Therefore, it is important to study possible changes of current Blog tools for the 
elders. 
 
 
 
participants were willing to exchange their knowledge through Blogs. In addition, the 
effects of knowledge sources on the motivation of using Blogs were analyzed. The 
results indicated that more than 60% of the people in TV-dominant group and more 
than 40% of the people in Multi-source group were willing to use Blogs as the platform 
for knowledge exchange. However, no one in Newspaper and chatting oriented group 
would like to use Blogs as the platform to deliver their knowledge and experience (?
2(2) = 8.828; p = 0.012). These results served as the information for the authors to 
develop prototypes and functions of blogging tools for aged people in the following 
sections. 
 
 
Table 2. Motivations of hosting Blogs and visiting others’ Blogs among elderly people 
Role Motivation % 
 Killing time 53.3 
 Documenting life 43.3 
 Reporting status to family members  43.3 
Hosting Delivering knowledge and experience 36.7 
 Expressing emotion 26.7 
 Reporting status to friends 26.7 
 Presenting creative idea  13.3 
 Expressing concerns to others   83.3 
 Killing time  30.0 
Visiting Delivering knowledge and experience 23.3 
 Reporting status to families or friends  20.0 
 Providing commentary opinions 16.7 
 Asking for help from others  16.7 
 
 
WEBLOG PROPOTYPE DESIGN 
 
Three Weblog prototypes with different user interface metaphors were constructed for 
comparison. Based on the data from the preliminary survey and user interface design 
principles for elderly people, only the most basic functions were kept on the main page, 
the operating procedure was minimized, and the push button area was enlarged. in 
addition to text input, a voice recording function was added. Furthermore, Blog text 
writing, comments, photo browsing, the regular contact list, updates (which the user 
could reset at any time to receive information according to individual preferences), and 
a red SOS button (for the user to establish a list of nearby hospitals and clinics for 
enquiry and contact) were selected as the main functions. The button icons were made 
simple, clear and easily understood for the user. All three prototypes had the functions 
to upload and share photos and video clips. However, they differed in interaction styles.  
The first one employed the metaphor of a touch-tone video phone. In this prototype, 
posting an article was like leaving a voice message with audio and video contents. 
Visiting others’ Blogs could be triggered by clicking on a set of big buttons with photos 
of other Blog owners. Users could use Blogbooks (similar to phonebooks) to group 
friends’ Blogs into different categories. The buttons for uploading and playing video 
clips resembled physical buttons and located on the control panel on the simulated 
phone. Navigation keys were provided to select  items on the screen. 
 
 
 
  
    
Figure 3: The Instant Messaging and E- mail metaphor (Elog) 
 
 
PROTOTYPE EVALUATION 
 
In order to evaluate different design solutions, six typical tasks were assigned to 15 
participants (10 female and 5 male) to experience the user interface of these 
prototypes using cognitive walkthrough approach. The mean and standard deviation of 
their ages were 61.27 and 5.12, respectively. 
The first task was to locate the reading function. The participants were requested to 
find the third line in the article Missing Gaoxiong. The second task was to locate the 
button to open the page for article writing. The third task was to go through the 
process of audio and video recording. The fourth task was to locate and read the 
comments posted by a specific visitor. The fifth task was to check the friend list and 
locate the third friend. The last task was to switch to the photo list page for browsing 
photos. Since every participant had to perform tasks with respect to three prototypes, 
the order of visiting the prototypes was randomly permutated to avoid learning effects. 
At the beginning of each session, a short tutorial was offered to help participants 
understand the basic functions of each prototype. For each tasks, the degree of 
intuitiveness was recorded classified into three-levels, i.e. high(3 points), medium(2 
points) and low(1 points). After performing all tasks, the participants also completed a 
post-test questionnaire to indicate their preferences among three prototypes and 
provide comments.  
 
 
RESULTS 
 
Based on the analysis of results, although there were no significant differences in the 
intuitiveness of use among three prototypes (Table 3), the combined metaphor of 
Instant Messaging and E-mail tools were significantly better than others in some 
design features such as button, window, layout and style (Table 4). The comments also 
showed that aged people like big screens and big buttons with photos of other Blog 
owners (Table 5). 
 
 
 
