Development of Prosthetic Hand Actuated by Shape Memory Alloys
Abstract—In this paper, development of a prosthetic hand actuated by shape memory alloys (SMAs) is presented, in
which three electromyogram (EMG) signals obtained from the surface electrodes attached to a forearm are used for
controlling the hand. A total of seven degrees of freedom for controlling 5 fingers and the wrist are adopted for the dexterous
prosthetic hand. Each degree of freedom utilizes two SMA springs for open and close operations. Each EMG signal is
processed for extracting 6 feature parameters and support vector machine and artificial neural network are employed for
identifying 7 popular hand gestures. An embedded controller (NI cRio-9961) is utilized for processing the three EMG signals
and outputting the corresponding control signals for the developed prosthetic hand. Preliminary experimental results show the
validity of the developed EMG driven SMA prosthetic hand.
Keywords- Prosthetic Hand, Shape Memory Alloy, Electromyogram, Support Vector Machine, Artificial Neural Network
中文摘要 — 本文開發以形狀記憶合金驅動之義手，並以 3 個貼於手臂之肌電訊號作控制，共有 5 根手指及手腕等 7 個自由
度，每個自由度需要 2 條形狀記憶合金分別作動開與合。每條肌電訊號須粹取 6 個特徵參數，並用支持向量機與類神經網路作 7
個手勢之識別。嵌入式控制器用來處理及運算控制訊號給義手，初步實驗結果證明肌電訊號控制義手之可行性。
關鍵詞-義手、形狀記憶合金、肌電訊號、支持向量機、類神經網路
1 Introductiom
Thanks to the rapid development of robotic technology in recent years, many achievements on the research of robot have
been made. The manufacturing industry and daily life both benefit from the robotic technology. Among them, the service
robot has been the research focus in recent decades, such as security robot, cleaning robot, and child care robot etc., to name a
few.
According to the statistics released by the Taiwan Interior Ministry in 2008 [1], 39% of the handicapped population
belongs to limb handicapped. Therefore prosthetic legs and hands [2,3] have been developed using the robotic technology for
improving the user’s daily life. Since electromyography (EMG) is the most simple and direct way to represent the
contracting information of a muscle, many researchers have employed the measured EMG signals from the surface electrodes
attached to a forearm for controlling the prosthetic hands [4-8].
At present, most actuators of a robotic hand employ electromagnetic motors, resulting in noise and EMI problems when
operating, in addition to high costs. Shape memory alloys not only do not have above-mentioned defects, but also have
characteristics such as direct drive, small in size, and light weight. Therefore, in this study we choose shape memory alloys as
actuators to build a prosthetic hand [9,10], which is to be controlled by EMG signals obtained from the surface electrodes
attached to a forearm.
2 Mechanism Design
The overall manipulator system of this study is shown in Fig.1, including three parts of a prosthetic hand, EMG signal
acquisition, and controller. We will introduce them in details in this section. The designing of the cyberhand was shown in
Fig.2, including the thumb and four common fingers (index finger, middle finger, ring finger, little finger), and the wrist. We
used springs of SMA to be the actuators inside each finger, which can open and close the corresponding finger. There is one
more DOF in the thumb design enabling it to rotate toward the palm for grabbing items.
Fig.1 System of the manipulator
Fig.2. Design of the cyberhand
Fig 6. Photo of the developed prosthetic hand
3 SMA Actuator
According to the SMA characteristics, SMA can have two phases: low temperature phase (Martensite) and high
temperature phase (Austenite). By heating and cooling the SMA, the lattice structure inside SMA will change, as is shown in
Fig. 7. The critical temperatures of SMA were Ms, Mf, As, and Af. Ms represents the temperature of starting formation of
martensite when cooling, and Mf represents the temperature of finish of martensitic transform. The As represents the
temperature of starting formation of austenite when heating, and Af represents the temperature of finish of austenite
transformation.
Fig. 7 Relationship between high and low temperature of SMA
The SMAs were used as the manipulator actuators in this study. In order to have adequate actuation force for opening
and closing each finger, appropriate wire diameter of SMA is chosen for winding into SMA springs. As shown in the left side
of Fig. 8, a 1.00mm diameter SMA wire is winded into a spring with a diameter of 7.2mm. This SMA spring is used to
control movements of the wrist. At the right side of Fig. 8, a thinner SMA wire with diameter 0.72mm is used for winding
into spring with 3.5mm diameter for actuating the fingers of the manipulator. These SMA springs were placed in an oven at
400 Co for two hours and rapidly quenched to room temperature for having the shape memory effect.
Fig. 8 Spring shapes of SMA
Since there are 7 DOFs in the designed prosthetic hand, a total of 14 SMA springs are used for controlling the fingers and the
wrist. By heating and cooling some of the installed SMA springs, specific hand postures can be obtained as shown in Fig. 9
Fig. 10 Circuit diagram for conditioning EMG signal. Fig. 11 Photo of the captured EMG signal
5 Controller Design
In this study, an embedded controller CompactRio from NI is used (shown in Fig. 12) which has an A/D converter for
accepting the EMG signals and a DO module for outputting control signals to the SMA actuator installed in the cyberhand. In
the very first experiments, we only tested the full-open and full-close operations of the cyberhand. Two EMG signals are
captured from respective forearm positions. The captured EMG signal is rectified first (top) and then low-pass filtered
(bottom) with cutoff frequency at 1Hz, as shown in Fig. 13. A threshold value is defined for detecting onsets of the respective
full-open and full-close hand operations. Experimental results are shown in Fig. 14, where the prosthetic hand full-open and
full-close operations are readily seen by the captured EMG signals.
Fig.12 Photo of controller Fig. 13 Conditioning of the EMG signals
Fig. 14 Photos of EMG controlled prosthetic hand
6. Classification Method
In this section, three electromyographic signals are to be used for controlling the hand for 7 popular hand gestures (as
shown in Fig. 15). Fig. 16 illustrates the locations of the forearm for capturing the three EMG signals. The corresponding 7
popular hand gestures used in daily activity are given in Fig. 17. In order to identify which gesture is issued by the user,
feature parameters of the captured EMG signals need be computed. In this study, six feature parameters [11] indicative of the
energy and frequency etc. of each EMG signal are extracted. They are given as follows:
(1) IEMG (integral of EMG): indicative of the energy of EMG signal
open close good OK No. 1 Ya pinch
Fig. 17 Hand gestures often used in daily activity
Each hand gesture is associated with 3 EMG signals. Hence, a vector of dimension 18 containing the 6 feature
parameters from each EMG signal can present a certain hand gesture. For example, a vector X representing the close gesture
has the following form: X=[15.48 24.76 9 0.01 122 39 30.69 46.33 23 0.11 96 38 32.19 50.83 22 0.07 116 49]. It is therefore
extremely important to have a classification method that can distinguish feature parameter vector for a certain gesture. In this
study, two classification methods are employed, artificial neural network and support vector machine. For obtaining a reliable
classification method, consecutive 10 tests for each hand gestures are done to have corresponding 10 feature vectors. Some of
these 10 feature vectors are used for training the classification method. The other untrained feature vectors are used for
evaluate the performance of the trained classification method.
6.1 Artificial Neural Network
A multilayer feedforward neural network is employed to identify the hand gesture. A three-layer neural network, 18-20-7,
using error back propagation and gradient descent method for training the data set is adopted [12]. One of the 10 feature
vectors from each hand gesture are collected as the training data set. Training data are fed consecutively from the first hand
gesture to the seventh gesture to the neural network for learning, and repeating this process for 4000 epochs. The resulting
learning performance of the neural network is shown in Fig. 18, where the error surface converges to zero as training cycle
goes to end of training. Fig. 19 indeed verifies the completion of the training process where each gesture is correctly
identified by the neural network output.
Fig. 18 Training performance of the neural network
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3
x 10
4
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
1.4
In this study, support vector machine is utilized for classifying the 7 hand gestures. A total of 7*9=63 feature vectors are
used for training the support vector machine, 9 feature vectors from each hand gesture. Once a trained model of support
vector machine is obtained, it is then tested by inputting the only untrained feature vector of every gesture to the model. Of
the seven gestures, only the third gesture Ya is wrongly identified (see Fig. 21 for Matlab simulation). An identification rate
of 85.7 % (6/7) is obtained by the support vector machine.
Fig. 21 Prediction results by the support vector machine
7 Conclusions and future work
The paper has built the entire system of an SMA actuated cyberhand, including the mechanism design, EMG signal
acquisition and conditioning, and controller design. Preliminary experiments show the validity of the developed EMG driven
SMA cyberhand. The SMA cyberhand is cheap in construction and easy in design. However, further works need be done to
improve the performance of the prosthetic hand as follows:
1. The classification algorithms of the support vector machine and neural network need be further improved so that the
identification rate can be increased from the now 85~87% to over 90% for a more robust operation of the prosthetic hand.
2. Realization of the classification algorithms in the controller and real time testing of the EMG controlled cyberhand is
currently under way.
3. Force compliance control of the fingers can be done by using the tactile sensors for adequately picking and holding an
object using for example the computed torque control.
4. Due to slow time constants of the SMA actuator, especially in the cooling stage, response time for the cyberhand is not
satisfactory. Better cooling system for rapidly dissipating the heat is needed.
1國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告
日期：100 年 10 月 30 日
一、 參加會議經過
本人於 100 年 1 月 23 日搭班機前往馬來西亞吉隆坡轉機再前往阿拉伯聯合大公國
度拜，本次 2011 年國際控制、自動化、機器人與視覺工程學術會議地點。主辦單位為
WASET (World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology)是一國際性學術組織，致
力於全球科學、工程及技術之提升與交流。本研討會發表文章收錄於 EI 並出書專輯收
錄，可見主辦單位之用心與本研討會之國際水準。
本研討會維持三天，出席人數近二百人，共有 12 個 sessions (153 篇口頭論文)及一
個視訊會議(152 篇)，共 305 篇論文在此發表，並分 AB 場同時進行。會議地點選在度拜
市中心的 Holiday Inn 會議中心，交通非常方便。舉凡控制、自動化、機器人與視覺相關
計畫編號 NSC99－2221－E－027－012
計畫名稱 形狀記憶合金驅動之電子手研發(II)
出國人員
姓名
蕭俊祥
服務機構
及職稱
台北科大機械系教授
會議時間
100 年 1 月 25 日
至
100 年 1 月 27 日
會議地點
阿拉伯聯合大公國度拜
會議名稱
(中文) 2011 年國際控制、自動化、機器人與視覺工程學術會議
(英文) 2011 International Conference on Control, Automation, Robotics
and Vision Engineering
發表論文
題目
(中文)以形狀記憶合金驅動之仿生機器人研發
(英文)Research and Development of a Biomorphic Robot Driven by Shape Memory
Alloys
3Please complete and sign this form and send it back to us with the final version of your manuscript. It is required to obtain a written
confirmation from authors in order to acquire copyrights for papers published in World Academy of Science, Engineering and
Technology.
Full Name and Surname Jinsiang Shaw
Title Prof. . Dr.  
Organisation National Taipei University of Technology
Address No. 1, Sec. 3, Chung-Hsiao E. Rd.
Postal code 10608
City Taipei
Country Taiwan
Telephone 886-2-27712171-2046
Fax 886-2-27317191
E-mail jshaw@ntut.edu.tw
Paper Title Research and Development of a Biomorphic Robot Driven by Shape Memory
Alloys
Authors Y.J. Lai, H.Y. Peng, M.W. Wu, and J. Shaw
Copyright Transfer Statement
The copyright to this article is transferred to World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology if and when the article is accepted
for publication. The undersigned hereby transfers any and all rights in and to the paper including without limitation all copyrights to the
Academy. The undersigned hereby represents and warrants that the paper is original and that he/she is the author of the paper, except
for material that is clearly identified as to its original source, with permission notices from the copyright owners where required. The
undersigned represents that he/she has the power and authority to make and execute this assignment.
We declare that:
1. This paper has not been published in the same form elsewhere.
2. It will not be submitted anywhere else for publication prior to acceptance/rejection by this Conference/Journal.
3. A copyright permission is obtained for materials published elsewhere and which require this permission for reproduction.
Furthermore, I/We hereby transfer the unlimited rights of publication of the above mentioned paper in whole to the Academy. The
copyright transfer covers the exclusive right to reproduce and distribute the article, including reprints, translations, photographic
reproductions, microform, electronic form (offline, online) or any other reproductions of similar nature.
The corresponding author signs for and accepts responsibility for releasing this material on behalf of any and all co-authors. This
agreement is to be signed by at least one of the authors who has obtained the assent of the co-author(s) where applicable. After
submission of this agreement signed by the corresponding author, changes of authorship or in the order of the authors listed will not be
accepted.
Yours Sincerely,
Corresponding Author‘s Ful Name and Signature
Jinsiang Shaw
Date: ..Nov. /…23…./…2010…
Fig. 3 Schematic sketch of BioMetal Helix actuator
III. MECHANISM DESIGN AND DRIVING PRINCIPLE
A displacement magnification mechanism, as shown in
Fig. 4, is designed in which four X-type sections are used to
consist the main body of the robot. Twelve bakelite sheets
with each size at 18.5×4×1.5 mm are used to build the robot
skeleton. The constructed biomorphic robot that resembles a
moving earthworm is shown in Fig. 5.
Fig. 4 Sketch of the biomorphic robot
Fig. 5 The top view of biomorphic robot
The head and tail of the biomorphic robot is each
mounted inside a transparent hose which has 4 setae
underneath for anchoring purpose during locomotion. The
hose has an outside diameter of 23mm, inside diameter of
19mm, and a length of 20mm, as shown in Fig. 6. To drive the
robot moving forward, two SMA springs are installed in the
vertical direction (one above and the other underneath the
skeleton), as illustrated in Fig. 7. When heated, these two
SMA springs pull in resulting in an elongation of the robot
body. Likewise, two SMA springs are installed in the
horizontal direction (one above and the other underneath the
skeleton). When heated, these two SMA springs pull in
resulting in a shrink of the robot body. By heating the SMA
springs alternatively in the vertical and horizontal directions,
the bionic robot body elongates and shortens in turn resulting
in forward movements with the helps of the 8 setae.
Fig. 6. Head of the biomorphic robot
Fig. 7 SMA springs mounted in the robot
As for the function for robot head turning direction, two
SMA springs are installed in the head (one above the skeleton
to turn right and the other underneath to turn left), as shown in
Fig. 8. When the above SMA spring heated, the robot head
turns right at a certain angle. Similarly, when the below SMA
spring heated, the robot head turns left at a certain angle.
Fig. 8 The turning mechanism of the robot
Fig. 9 depicts the system configuration for driving the
robot. A DAQ card (USB6008) from the National Instrument
Inc. is used as an interface card, where six channels of digital
outputs are utilized for controlling the six installed SMA
springs of the robot. The control signals are sent via current
Fig. 13 Locomotion of the robot (a) initial state, (b) elongation,
(c) right turn, (d) contraction
V. CONCLUSIONS
(1). The constructed bionic robot driven by SMAs is shown to
maneuver well and responds faster compared with the
earthworm robots in the literature.
(2). The bionic robot is effective in making a turn.
(3). Friction of setae with contact surface is the main reason to
affect walking distance and speed.
(4). A fan nearly is used for better cooling effect of the SMA
springs when the power is switched off.
REFERENCES
[1] B. Kim, M. G. Lee, Y .P. Lee, Y. Kim, and G. H. Lee, “An 
earthworm-like micro robot using shape memory alloy
actuator,” Sensors and Actuators A: Physical, vol. 125, pp.
429–437, Jan. 2006.
[2] A. Menciassic, S. Gorini, G. Pernorio, andP. Dairo, “A SMA 
actuated artificial earthworm,”  IEEE International Conference 
on Robotics and Automation, New Orleans, USA, 2004
[3] Tanaka, ”A thermomechanical sketch of shape memoryeffect:
one-dimensional tensile behavior,” Res mech, vol. 18,
pp. .251-63, 1986.
[4] Kai-Chi Shiu, Dynamic Analysis & Motion Control of A
Bio-mimic Robot, Master Thesis, National Taiwan University,
Taipei, 2005.
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：蕭俊祥 計畫編號：99-2221-E-027-012- 
計畫名稱：形狀記憶合金驅動之電子手研發(II) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 9 9 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 0%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
