中文摘要 
旋塗式有機薄膜電晶體有利於大面積且低成本的元件製作。本計畫的研究目標為評估
製造旋塗式有機薄膜電晶體的可行性。在本計畫中，我們致力於 P3HT 的電特性討論，製
程的研究以及有機薄膜電晶體的電特性探討。P3HT 是一種半結晶的物質，用 P3HT 所做成
的薄膜電晶體其載子移動率(mobility)受制於非結晶區域。從電晶體的電特性測量中，我們
發現元件受到氧氣的作用，使得電晶體的臨界電壓(threshold voltage)與有機薄膜的導電性
(conductivity)會增加。我們從有著 Ni 金屬電擊和 top-contact 結構的電晶體中得到了最佳的
元件載子移動率，探討其原因，是由於較好的晶體結構與較低的金屬電擊接觸電阻(contact 
resistance)所造成。此外我們發現載子移動率會隨溫度升高而增加，這證實了載子在 P3HT
中可以藉由 hopping 的載子傳導機制來解釋。我們也發現沒有保護層的薄膜電晶體其電特
性會隨時間的增加而產生劣化。在實驗中我們發現旋塗式的有機薄膜需要定義(pattern)以隔
離元件，否則元件的絕緣層會因為有機層的污染而造成不必要的漏電產生，如此一來元件
的電特性會跟著變差。 
 
 
Abstract 
Organic thin film transistors made by Spin-Coating method with solution processable 
conjugated polymers have potential advantages for fabricating low-cost, large area devices. The 
goal of this project was to evaluate the feasibility of Spin-Coating method in fabricating organic 
thin film transistor with solution processable conjugated polymers. In this thesis, we emphasize 
the electrical characteristics of poly-3-hexylthiophene (P3HT), investigation of spin-coating 
process parameters and the electrical characteristics of OTFT with P3HT active layer. P3HT is 
semi-crystalline; the mobility is limited by amorphous part of P3HT. We have measured 
conductance, mobility, and ON-OFF current ratio of OTFTs. The best mobility of P3HT OTFT 
was obtained with a top-contact structure with Ni S/D contacts as a result of a good P3HT 
molecular morphology and low S/D contact resistance. And we found that the mobility is thermal 
activated (an evidence for hopping transport mechanism). In addition we found that the 
conductivity of P3HT film and threshold voltage of OTFT increases when the oxygen molecular 
is interacted with the P3HT film. A degradation of OTFT without a passivation layer was 
observed. For a good OTFT performance the organic active layer is needed to be patterned to 
reduce the gate leakage current. 
 
 
Introduction 
    Organic semiconductors are emerging as competitors to amorphous and polycrystalline 
silicon in the application of large area electronics. Particular emphasis has been placed on 
conjugated polymer semiconductors. This is due to the ease of solution processing of the polymer 
compared with gaseous deposition of amorphous silicon. 
Organic thin film transistors (OTFTs) based on conjugated polymers or oligomers have been 
envisioned as a viable alternative to more traditional, mainstream thin film transistors (TFTs) 
based on inorganic materials. Because of the relatively low mobility of organic semiconductors, 
OTFTs cannot rival the performance of field-effect transistors based on single-crystalline 
inorganic semiconductors, such as Si, Ge, and GaAs. However, the unique processing 
shows a very highly ordered system. This type of order is known as regioregularity and has been 
shown to give much higher field-effect mobility values over regiorandom (disordered side chains) 
material [4]. Most interestingly, these polymers have been shown to have very different properties 
from their corresponding regiorandom polymers, such as smaller band gaps, better ordering and 
crystallinity in their solid states, and substantially improved electroconductivities.  When 
regioregular P3HT consisting of 98.5% or more head-to-tail (HT) linkages was used to fabricate 
FETs, a dramatic increase in mobility was observed relative to regiorandom 
poly-3-alkylthiophenes [5]. 
 
2-2. Effect of Polymer Morphology and Solvents 
    The molecular structure of the P3HT greatly influences the charge carrier mobility and 
related current–voltage (I-V) characteristics of OTFTs. A comparison study of P3ATs (A = hexyl, 
octyl, dodecyl, hexadecy) with side chains ranging in length from butyl to decyl showed that 
field-effect mobility decreases with increasing chain length [6]. 
Under different processing conditions, the field effect mobility of OTFTs is highly anisotropic. 
For example, Karl et al [7] observed that the field effect mobility was highly anisotropic, with the 
larger mobility along the direction in which the polymer chain axis aligned. 
   The molecular structure obtained by using spin-coating method is different to the one by 
using solution-cast method. The mobility of spin-coated films is usually lower than that of the 
cast films [5]. This is perhaps because in the cast films, the rate of solvent evaporation is slower 
and has slower crystal growth, and hence betters ordering, and larger grain size. 
The choice of solvents and polymers has a very significant impact on the electrical characteristics 
of OTFTs. In a recent publication, Bao et al. [8] observed that when chloroform was used as a 
solvent to make poly- (3-hexylthiophene)-based transistors, the field-effect mobility was 0.1 
cm2/Vs. However when Tetra hydrofuran (THF) was used as the solvent, the value of field-effect 
mobility is only 0.0006 cm2/Vs. Table 2-1 shows the performance of various devices made from 
casting poly(3-hexylthiophene) films using different solvents with different  process 
conditions.[8]. 
Sirringhaus et al., [9] observed that the mobility could differ by a factor of 100 depending on 
the orientation of the lamella structure of the polymer films. The mobility is highest along the 
direction of π-π stacking in which efficient inter-chain transport is happened.  
    The polymer solution we used is regioregular P3HT in xylene with high purity. From table 
2-1, the mobility is typically in the range of 10-3 cm2/Vs which matches the result obtained in our 
experiment. 
 
2-3. Charge transport through the P3HT 
As in traditional inorganic semi-conductors, organic materials can function either as p-type or 
n-type. In p-type semi-conductors the majority carriers are holes, and this is the case of P3HT. 
Charge transfer occurs along the backbone of the chain through the system of alternating double 
and single bonds between carbon atoms. This alternating system gives rise to a separation of the 
bonding and anti-bonding states resulting in the formation of a forbidden energy gap. 
Anti-bonding states form the conduction band, as they are higher in energy and bonding states 
form the valence band being lower in energy. 
the film thickness was measured by N&K analyzer. Figure 1-2 shows the process flow of this 
experiment. 
 
Results and Discussion 
    Table 2-2 shows that film thickness is independent on spin-speed when the spin-speed was 
faster than 1000 rpm. We believed that the experiment result was not reliable, because P3HT was 
complex microstructure, in which ordered microcrystalline domains are embedded in an 
amorphous matrix [9]. Because the well-ordered domain is short-ranged, the data obtained by 
N&K analyzer is miss-matched. As a result film thickness of P3HT cannot be measured correctly 
by N&K analyzer. 
 
3-3-2. Film Thickness Measurement by SEM 
    In the previous section we measured the film thickness of P3HT film by N&K analyzer, but 
the result is not good enough. This time the SEM was performed to get an accurate result. 
Experiments 
The sample preparation of this experiment is the same as N&K test. Here we prepared the test 
samples with different P3HT film thickness made from two spin speeds, 500 and 2000 rpm. 
 
Results and discussion 
Fig.1-3 shows that 24 nm thick P3HT film can be obtained with spin speed of 2000 rpm and the 
uniformity is good. With a slower spin-speed the film thickness becomes un-uniformly (Fig.1-4). 
 
3-3-3. AFM Measurement 
AFM was used to determine the morphology and topography of the deposited film. Fig. 1-5 
shows a typical AFM micrograph showing topography of P3HT films formed by spin-coating 
technique. No apparent grain boundary but many clusters of undissolved P3HT powders can be 
observed in this AFM micrograph. Table 2-3 shows the RMS versus spin speed. It seems that 
RMS is not so affected by spin-speed and of the same order. Fig. 1.6, 1.7, 1.8 shows the AFM 
micrograph of P3HT film under different baking temperature of 170 ℃, 150 ℃ and 100 ℃ 
respectively. The molecular clusters are small and winded around together; no noticeable grain 
boundary can be found. The P3HT film we deposited by spin-coating is quite smooth without 
finding noticeable pinhole or defects. 
    By scratching the film surface and measuring the height of the step is also a possible method 
to determine the correct film thickness, but the most accurate test result can only be obtained with 
an accurate scratching technique. The groove we made by scratching P3HT films with probe is 
not good enough because the width of sideline is larger than the scanning range of AFM (>5 µm). 
 
4. Oxide Leakage Current Due to P3HT 
The testing structure we used in this section was a MIS (metal-insulator-semiconductor) diode. 
Figure 1-9 shows the leakage current between gate and substrate of this MIS structure with 
100nm SiO2 as gate dielectric. The metal area is (50 µm)^2*3.14 = 7.85*1011 cm2 . The leakage 
current of bare oxide and of oxide treated with xylene was almost the same when the voltage was 
swept from -20V to 20V. But the leakage current of SiO2 with P3HT on its top was larger than the 
  
 
 
 
 
(a) (b) 
 
Fig. 2-3 (a),(b) SEM photo : Cross-section view of test samples (upper layer is silicon wafer) 
made with spin speed of 2000rpm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) (b) 
 
Fig. 2-4 (a),(b) SEM photo : Cross-section view of test samples (upper layer is silicon wafer) 
made with spin speed of 500 rpm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                   (a)                                          (b) 
Fig. 1-7AFM micrograph of P3HT sample annealed at 150℃ with a (a) top-view (b) high angle 
view 
 
 
 
 
(a)                                      (b) 
 
Fig. 1-8 AFM micrograph of P3HT sample annealed at 100℃ with a (a) top-view (b) high angle 
view 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Spin 
speed 
RMS of P3HT 
film 
1000 
rpm 0.447 nm 
2000 
rpm 0.396 nm 
3000 
rpm 0.551 nm 
4000 
rpm 0.386 nm 
5000 
rpm 0.5  nm 
6000 
rpm 0.359 nm 
 
Table 1-3 RMS measured by AFM versus spin-speed 
 
II.  Electrical Characteristic of P3HT OTFT 
1. Introduction 
A typical path to increase OTFTs performance could be regarded as a three-stage process: (a) 
A new organic semi-conductor is synthesized or a known one is used for the first time as the 
active layer in an OTFT. (b) The film deposition parameters for the semi-conducting organic 
layer are optimized to obtain the most advantageous structural and morphological characteristics 
for improved performance until no more improvement seems possible. (c) The source and drain 
contacts and the general transistor configuration are optimized. Consequently our experiment is 
aimed to optimize deposition parameters of spin-on P3HT and S/D contact materials of OTFTs. 
Additionally, the reliability test of P3HT with time and temperature is also conducted in this 
chapter. 
 
2. Fabrication of OTFT 
Regioregular P3HT and high purity grade solvents, xylene, were purchased from Aldrich 
Chemical Co. We did not perform further purification or sublimation to these chemicals. Silicon 
was chosen as a supporting substrate for the fabrication of OTFTs because it can be heavily 
doped to form a gate electrode and thermally oxidized to grow a silicon oxide insulating layer. 
We used two kinds of basic FET structure: top-contact and bottom-contact. As shown in Fig. 2-1 
a top-contact device is with source and drain electrodes evaporated onto the organic 
semi-conducting layer through a metal mask. A bottom-contact device is with the organic 
semiconductor deposited onto the gate insulator and the pre-patterned source and drain electrodes. 
The polymer semiconductor layer was spin-coated on the wafer and all chemicals were filtered 
through a 0.20um pore-size PTFE filter before deposition. Typical film thickness after 
spin-coating are 10~100nm. All samples were handled in the air. 
the current in the depletion mode, also referred to as ON-OFF current ratio). The detail extraction 
method will be discussed in the following section. 
     
3. Operation of OTFT 
The operation of OTFT is refer to [11] and described below. Organic TFTs are primarily 
operated as accumulation-mode enhancement type transistor, which are opposed to the usual 
inversion mode operation of silicon MOSFETs. Ideally the source and drain contacts should 
behave as ohmic contacts for the majority carrier in the organic semiconductor. 
In Fig. 2-7 (a), a schematic diagram is shown, in which zero bias was applied to all three contacts 
of an OTFT. If a small drain bias, Vd, is applied then the source-drain current, Ids, will be small 
and ohmic. 
If a negative bias, Vg, is applied to the gate electrode (Fig. 2-7 (b)), the voltage is dropped 
over the insulator and over the semiconductor near insulator/semiconductor interface, giving rise 
to band bending in the semiconductor, the accumulation region. The additional positive charge 
accumulated in this region is supplied by the ohmic source and drain contacts. The semiconductor 
now contains positive charges both from doping and from the ‘field effect’ which created the 
accumulation layer. When a small bias is applied on the drain contact, a current larger than the 
ohmic current will be measured. 
If a positive gate bias is applied, then the opposite band bending occurs in the semiconductor 
at the insulator interface, leading to depletion of charge (Fig. 2-7(c)). Inversion mode cannot be 
observed in the organic TFTs since the metal contacts are ohmic contacts for electron injection 
into the organic semiconductors. 
As the drain bias becomes increasingly negative, the accumulation charge density will 
decrease from source to drain contact (Fig. 2-7 (d)). If the drain becomes more negative than the 
gate then a depletion zone will begin to appear and grow from the drain contact (Fig. 2-7 (e)). 
 
4. Electrical characteristics of P3HT OTFT 
A typical plot of drain current Id versus drain voltage Vd at various gate voltages Vg is 
shown in Fig. 2-8 which illustrates the operation of top-contact OTFT using a semi-crystalline, 
spin-coated P3HT film as a semi-conducting layer. The transistor was measured in atmosphere. 
The devices channel length/width was 30µm/ 5000µm. The film thickness measured by SEM was 
24 nm. The result shows the FET-like Id-Vd curve of P3HT OTFT. Drain current increased 
linearly when drain bias was small and then saturated when drain bias was high enough to pinch 
off the channel. 
Fig. 2-9 (a) shows a gate sweep at a drain bias of -5V. The gate bias was swept from +40V to 
-50V. Like p-type OTFTs, for negative gate bias the current increases and for positive gate bias 
the current decreases. Fig. 2-9 (b) shows that mobility increases with gate bias, which is 
consistent with a multiple trapping and release model [13]. The observed decrease in mobility at 
larger gate bias may be due to increased interface scattering. The best linear mobility of P3HT 
OTFT we made is about 10-2 cm2/Vs and the on-off ratio is about 103. 
 
5. The Gate Leakage Current Effect on OTFT 
    As described in chapter 2, the gate oxide leakage current becomes large when the P3HT film 
with Ni S/D contacts and with the same channel width (5000µm). The threshold voltage generally 
decreases with increasing channel length but the difference is small. The results show that W/L 
ratio is not an issue of threshold voltage. 
 
6-3. On-Off Ratio of OTFT with Different W/L Ratio 
    We used the ratio of the current in the accumulation mode over the current in the depletion 
mode as the calculation method. Figure 2-16 (a) shows that the on-off ratio increased largely with 
increasing W/L ratio. The results shows that device with larger W/L ratio has a better channel 
modulation ability. But the extraction method of on-off ratio we used in this section would affect 
seriously by gate leakage current. Now, we used another definition about on-off ratio. We defined 
the on/off ratio at a given negative drain bias as the ratio of the current in a transistor in its 
‘on-state’, Vg = Vd < 0V, to the current in its ‘off-state’, Vg = 0V, Vd < 0V. By using this 
definition, we get another test result as showed in fig. 2-16 (b). The test result shows that that 
device with larger W/L ratio has a better channel modulation ability but the value is very small 
due the effect of doping by oxygen which caused the shift of threshold voltage. 
In that situation, the device is already turned on when Vg = 0V. 
 
7. Electrical characteristics of OTFT under Different Operation Temperature 
In order to investigate the effect of temperature on mobility, conductivity, and on-off ratio, 
measurements under different temperature were performed. 
 
7-1. Mobility of OTFT under different operation temperature 
    Fig.2-17 shows that the field effect mobility increased with increasing temperature. It is 
generally agreed that charge transport in organic semiconductors occurs via hopping of 
self-trapped polarons [14]. Evidence for hopping transport mostly relies on the fact that the 
field-effect mobility of organic semiconductors is thermally activated [14]. 
The weak intermolecular interaction forces in organic semi-conductors (van der Waals 
interaction), may be responsible for the low mobility of OTFT. In contrast, in inorganic 
semiconductors such as Si, Ge, and GaAs, the atoms are held together with very strong covalent 
bonds [1]. Band transport is not applicable to disordered organic semiconductors, where carrier 
transport takes place by hopping between localized states and carriers are scattered at every step 
[1]. Hopping is assisted by phonons and the mobility increases with temperature, although 
typically it remains very low overall (l << cm2V-1 s-1). The boundary between band transport 
and hopping is defined by materials having RT mobilities of the order of 1 cm2V-1 s-1. 
 
7-2. Conductivity of OTFT under different operation temperature 
Extraction method 
The extraction method is refer to [15] and described below. 
The total current of a polymer-FET was separated into two components: channel current (Ich) and 
bulk current (Ibk). With use of established metal-oxide-field effect transistor (MOSFET) 
current-voltage relationships, the channel current can be formulated as 
 Ich = Ì*Cox W /L 　(Vgs - Vt)Vds – 1/2Vds 2 　　　 
for linear operation modes, where L and W are channel length and width, respectively; VT is the 
 
9-2. Mobility 
    Fig. 2-20 shows that mobility generally decreases with increasing storage time. The mobility 
increase with increasing doping concentration, this effect dominates the conductivity results for 
first few days. But eventually the mobility decreases due to degradation of device. 
 
9-3 Threshold voltage  
    Fig. 2-21 (a) and (b) shows the plot conductivity versus time with the same channel width 
1000µm, and with the same channel length 10µm respectively. As mention before conductivity is 
not affect by W/L ratio. Threshold voltage generally increased with time especially in the first 
few days and saturated slowly to the solubility upper-limit of doping concentration. Conductivity 
that arises from dopants is depletable in our case, resulting in a threshold or a turn-on voltage 
opposite in sign from the accumulation regime. 
 
9-4. The relationship between conductivity and mobility 
As shown in fig. 2-22(a), the relationship between the conductivity and mobility increase is 
similar for a wide variety of compounds with intrinsic mobility below 0.001 cm2/Vs, as 
suggested by the plot in fig. 2-22 (b)[12]. The line has been plotted which has the simple power 
law from given by 
μ= σδ.                           (3-5) 
The value of δ obtained in our experiment, δ = 1.1, is larger than the value of world wide 
conjugated materials, δ = 0.7. This may result from the degradation of device which lowers the 
mobility. 
For heavily doped systems charge transport is dominated by variable-range hopping at the Fermi 
level. The mobility will increase with conductivity [12]. 
 
9-5. Discussion 
The field-effect mobility can be increased by two to three orders of magnitude by addition of 
more charge carriers, by doping. The plausible explanation for the increase is either filling of the 
traps and/or defects in the polymer structure by additional doping and/or, shortening of mean free 
path for the charge carriers because of increased number of carriers [16]. However, additional 
doping reduces the ratio since the polymer now has a higher electrical conductivity, and hence a 
higher “off-current”. Although in our experiment the On-off ratio is not so accurate to see the 
result mention by other researchers due to the gate leakage effect. 
Due to the underlying hopping transport of charge carriers the field-effect mobilities could be 
increased by doping but only at the expense of increased bulk conductivity. This then yields 
transistors which have insufficient current modulation for application. 
10. Contact resistance of OTFT 
Introduction 
Unlike in field effect transistors based on inorganic materials, the source and drain contacts in 
organic TFTs are not easily optimized by conventional processes, such as semiconductor doping 
or metal alloying. Consequently, organic TFT performance typically suffers from large contact 
resistance. For example, this resistance may mask a mobility that increases with gate voltage, as 
First, we estimate the drain conductance gd and transconductance gm at a low drain voltage, 
which are defined by Eqs. 3-7 and 3-8, respectively, 
         (3-7) (3-8) 
To eliminate the series resistance, we divide Eq.3-7 by the square root of Eq.3-8 and after some 
manipulations, we finally obtain Eq.3-9: 
                  (3-9) 
We measure the transfer (Id–Vg) characteristic of the transistors at a low drain voltage (Vd= -5V), 
and perform a numerical derivation of Eq.3-9. 
 
Results and Discussion 
Fig. 2-27 shows that the corrected mobility was smaller than the uncorrected one. The corrected 
mobility is gate-voltage dependent and increased generally linearly with gate bias and saturated at 
higher gate voltage. A possible explanation for the gate-voltage dependent of the mobility is that 
charge carrier concentration accumulated near the in the channel increases linearly with 
increasing gate voltage, and the hypothesis is still investigating by Gilles Horowitz, et al [14]. 
The origin model without considering the effect of contact serious resistance leads to an 
overestimation of the field effect mobility. 
 
12. Organic Film Thickness Dependence of Mobility 
    As shown in fig. 2-28, the mobility with thick P3HT film is larger than the thin one by one 
order. This may be due to the better molecular morphology formed in the thick P3HT film. The 
presence of a highly ordered bulk in thicker films may also exert an ordering effect onto the 
interfacial layer [19]. 
 
13 Summary 
    The Id-Vd curve of P3HT OTFT we made is FET-like. Drain current increased linearly 
when drain bias was small and then saturated when drain bias was high enough to pinch off the 
channel. As for Id-Vg curve, for negative gate bias the current increases and for positive gate bias 
the current decreases. The result of Id-Vg curve shows p-type behavior. The linear mobility 
increases with gate bias, which is consistent with a multiple trapping and release model. 
    The off-current of P3HT OTFT is affected by gate leakage current. Therefore we cannot get 
an accurate on-off ratio. The bottom-contact structure OTFT works well to reduce the gate 
leakage current. After all, we had better to pattern the P3HT active layer to get an accurate test 
result without the influence of gate leakage effect. 
    The W/L ratio influences the mobility of OTFTs. With the same channel width, the motility 
increased with increasing channel length due to the reduction of contact resistance effect. 
    The mobility increased with increasing operation temperature. The thermal activated 
mobility is an evidence of hopping transport mechanism for organic materials with mobility less 
than 1 cm2/Vs. 
    In the stability test, interaction between molecular oxygen and P3HT caused an increase to 
conductivity of P3HT and threshold voltage of OTFT. In the same time the performance of OTFT 
would grow weak with increasing time. 
    Metals with higher work function formed ohmic-type S/D contacts for p-type OTFTs. Less 
  
Fig. 2-3 Process flow of top-contact OTFT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P3HT
Thermal oxide
AL AL
Pt Pt
N+Si
 
 
(a) (b) 
 
Fig. 2-4 (a) Cross section of bottom-contact OTFT (b) plan view of the device 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2-7 Operation of OTFT [12] (a) No-bias (b) Accumulation mode (c) Depletion mode (d) 
Non-uniform charge density (e) Pinch-off of channel (f) and (g) Growth of the depletion zone. 
 
 
-4 -2 0
-5.0x10-7
0.0
 
 
TC-Ni
W/L=5000µm/30µm 
D
ra
in
 c
ur
re
nt
(A
)
Drain voltage (V)
  Vg =   (v)
  22.5
  15
  7.5
  0
  -7.5
  -15
  -22.5
  -30
-40 -30 -20 -10 0 10
-3.0x10-6
-2.5x10-6
-2.0x10-6
-1.5x10-6
-1.0x10-6
-5.0x10-7
0.0
5.0x10-7
 
 
TC-Ni
W/L=5000µm/30µm 
D
ra
in
 c
ur
re
nt
(A
)
Drain voltage (V)
  Vg =   (v)
  22.5
  15
  7.5
  0
  -7.5
  -15
  -22.5
  -30
 
 (a)                                    (b) 
Fig. 2-8 Typical FET-like Id-Vd curve: (a) Linear region when Vd is small (b) Saturated region 
when Vd is large 
 
 
-20 -15
0.0
5.0x10-8
1.0x10-7
1.5x10-7
2.0x10-7
2.5x10-7
3.0x10-7
-10 -5 0
 
 
TC-Pt
Oxide=50nm
W/L=100µm/30µm 
Drain bias (V)
So
ur
ce
 c
ur
re
nt
 (A
)
  Vg=
  10
  2
  -6
  -14
  -22
  -30
 
-20 -15 -10 -5 0
0.0
5.0x10-7
1.0x10-6
1.5x10-6
2.0x10-6
2.5x10-6
3.0x10-6
3.5x10-6
 
 
TC-Pt
Oxide=50nm
W/L=5000µm/30µm
So
ur
ce
 c
ur
re
nt
(A
)
Drain bias(V)
  Vg= (V)
  10
  2
  -6
  -14
  -22
  -30
                  (a)                                      (b)  
Fig. 2-11 Influence of gate leakage current on Id-Vd: (a) TC OTFT with W/L = 5000µm/30µm (b) 
TC OTFT with W/L = 100µm/30µm 
 
        (a)                                (b)                              (c) 
 
          (d)                             (e)                              (f) 
Fig. 2-12 Id-Vg curve of patterned and non-patterned P3HT BC OTFT with (a) W/L = 10000µm/10µm 
(b) W/L = 5000µm/10µm (c) W/L = 1000µm/10µm (d) W/L = 1000µm/25µm (e) W/L = 
10000µm/50µm (f) W/L = 100µm/50µm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.2-15 Threshold voltage of TC OTFT with Ni S/D contacts versus channel length 
 
Fig. 2-16 On-off ratio versus time measured by definition: (a) I on (Vg = Vd < 0)/ I off 
 
Fig.2-17 Mobility of BC OTFT w
 
(Vg=0,Vd<0) (b) Ion(accumulation mode)/ I off (depletion mode) 
 
20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110
1.0x10-3
2.0x10-3
3.0x10-3
4.0x10-3
5.0x10-3
Vd= -5v
W/L= (µm/µm)
 100/50
 300/50
 500/50
 
 
m
ob
ili
ty
(c
m
2 /V
*s
)
Temp (C)
BC-Pt
ith Pt S/D contacts measured under different operation 
temperature 
 
Fig. 2-20 Mobility of BC OTFT with Pt S/D contacts versus time 
 
 
 
 (a)
Fig. 3-21 Threshold voltage of BC OTFT versus time with (a) the same channel width of 1000µm 
(b) the same channel len
                                        (b) 
gth of 10µm 
 
                    (a)                                  (b) 
Fig. 3-22 Field-effect mobility plotted against the bulk conductivity from (a) experiment result of 
P3HT (b) some conducting polymers (from [12]) 
 
(a)                                       (b) 
Fig. 3-26 (a) Id-Vd curve (b) Id-Vg curve of TC OTFT with Al S/D contacts 
 
Fig. 3-27 Original and corrected mobility of TC OTFT with Ni S/D contacts versus gate bias 
 
Fig. 3-28 The mobility of TC OTFT with Ni S/D contacts and different P3HT film thickness 
versus channel length 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
