Abstract—Pervasive computing (or ubiquitous comput-
ing), as envisioned by Weiser [1], is a grand vision for
computing where smart digital technology can seamlessly
and invisibly weave into the fabrics of our everyday lives.
Currently, two approaches have emerged in designing
pervasive computing for digital healthcare applications: the
smart environment versus the smart people approaches. The
smart environment approach focuses on automation in
which digital technology is used to replace people in per-
forming their everyday tasks. On the other hand, the smart
people approach emphasizes on mediation in which digital
technology is not used to replace people's actions, but help
people better perform their everyday tasks. Persuasive
computing adapts the second design approach. By embed-
ding digital technology into our environments, persuasive
computing hopes to modify and shape our everyday be-
haviors toward smarter, healthier people. In this session, we
will share our experiences in the various iCare subprojects
on how we come to the path of moving from pervasive to
persuasive computing.
Keywords—Pervasive computing, persuasive computing,
ubiquitous computing, digital healthcare
INTRODUCTION
The iCare research initiative [2] is about embracing
and embedding digital technology into our physical living
to enhance our everyday experiences at home. Specifi-
cally, the iCare research seeks to create intelligent digital
technology that can engage and excite people into active
participation of desirable physical and mental activities at
home that are considered healthy, creative, productive,
educational, enjoyable, etc. Our goal is to develop digital
technology that empowers people with desirable behav-
iors, not just supports smart environments. A current re-
search focus is in applying digital technology for
healthcare and self-care at home.
The iCare research initiative is an interdisciplinary
research effort. Our original team members come from
mostly computing background, but have since been ex-
tended to cover diverse background in electrical engi-
neering, computer science, information management,
occupational therapy, psychology, medicine, and nursing,
enabling us to tackle the research challenge of digital
living from technical, design, and human aspects.
In this session, we would like to share our experi-
ences through various subprojects conducted in the iCare
project, and describes how we have come to the path of
moving from pervasive computing to persuasive com-
puting.
THE ICARE EXPERIENCE
At the start of the iCare project, an object reminder
system [3] (video:
http://mll.csie.ntu.edu.tw/video/object_tracker.avi) was
prototyped to automatically track the whereabouts of
objects misplaced by users at home or in an office. The
motivation is for the object reminder system to address an
everyday frustration in which people often forget where
they misplaced things, such as glasses, cell phone, wallet,
keys, remote controls, etc., resulting in wasting consid-
erable amount of time looking for these misplaced ob-
jects.
To create our object reminder system, we took the
smart environment approach and instrumented the envi-
ronment with ultrasonic positioning sensors. In addition,
we created a finger ring RFID antenna that detects when
an RFID-tagged object is being held and released from a
user’s hand, and a wristband wearable device that com-
bines a small ultrasonic positioning tag, a RFID reader,
and a Zigbee radio sensor node called NTU Taroko [7].
To track the location of an object, our system first tracks
the location of a user’s hand using the wristband wearable
device. Then, our system detects the moment when the
user’s hand releases an object, which is also the time
when the RFID reader on the wristband wearable device
can no longer sense the RFID tag on the hand-released
object. The object’s new location is therefore inferred as
the position of the hand at the hand-released moment. The
object’s new location is then updated on a map shown on
a PDA. Fig. 1 shows pictures of our prototype system.
When our object reminder system was shown to
human experts, they quickly commented that using this
system would likely produce an adverse effect that leads
to continuation of a poor habit to misplace things (i.e., not
putting things back in the same place). The reason is that
with this digital technology, users can always find things
whether they put things in/out the same place. This ad-
verse effect can be found in other digital technology. A
prominent example is the use of the car navigation system,
which may encourage directionless-ness in drivers be-
cause drivers are not compelled to the habit of remem-
bering and learning roads and direction while driving. As
a result, drivers may become more dependent and reli-
ance on the intelligence of the digital technology rather
than on their own intelligence or good habits.
iCare Project: from Pervasive to Persuasive Computing
Proceedings of 2007 CACS International Automatic Control Conference
National Chung Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan, Nov. 9-11, 2007
eating action satisfies the partial reinforcement principle
to encourage repeated performance of child eating ac-
tions.
Weight sensor and sensing surface
Palm-top PC with touch screen
(a) (b)
(c)
(d)
Fig. 3. The Playful Tray prototype: (a) and (b) are screen shots for the
Racing game; and (c) and (d) show the tray prototype with a Palm-top
PC and weight sensing surface.
Playful toothbrush
Proper brushing is essential for cleaning teeth and
gums effectively and for maintaining oral hygiene [9].
For many parents, tooth brushing is a required routine for
young children before bedtime. However, it is by no
means an easy task for parents to get their young children
into a habit of brushing their teeth properly and thor-
oughly. Thus, we have designed and implemented the
Playful Toothbrush as a tool to engage young children
into active participation and learn proper tooth brushing
method as recommended by American Dental Associa-
tion (ADA) [9].
The Playful Toothbrush [10] incorporates an inter-
active game played with an augmented toothbrush shown
in Fig. 4. The system is consisted of the following com-
ponents: (1) The toothbrush extension, shown in Fig. 4(b),
is coded with different LED marker patterns on its four
faces to aid our vision-based motion recognition system.
(2) A web camera, shown in Fig. 4(a), is positioned above
the child head to capture the top-down view of brushing
motions. By analyzing the locations and motions of the
LED markers from camera images, our system recon-
structs the orientation of the brush extension and rotation
of the bristle, and further infers the target group of teeth
being brushed. (3) A tooth brushing game, shown in Fig
4(c), takes the child’s current physical brushing motions 
as game inputs to play a game on a LCD display. The
game starts with a virtual image of a child’s dirty teeth. 
The goal is for a child to thoroughly clean these virtual
dirty teeth using his/her own physical tooth brushing
motions as game inputs. For example, while a child is
brushing his/her outer left teeth group, it is mapped to
cleaning the virtual outer left teeth group of the mirror
image on the LCD screen, with visible spots of plaques
falling off. Fig. 4(d) and (e) show two game screenshots.
When the child finishes cleaning all his/her teeth, the
virtual teeth will become completely white accompanying
with applause sound.
Fig. 4. The Playful Toothbrush prototype: (a) shows a web camera to
capture the top-down view of brushing motions; (b) is the toothbrush
extension with LED marker patterns; (c) demonstrates a child using our
Playful Toothbrush; (d) and (e) are screenshots of the Brushing game.
Nutrition-aware Cooking Kitchen
Obesity and overweight are major contributors
globally to serious diet-related chronic diseases, includ-
ing cardiovascular disease, hypertension and stroke,
diabetes and others [11]. To prevent obesity and over-
weight, special care should be taken to maintain the
calorie content of every meal within daily requirements.
Packaged foods sold in grocery stores have nutritional
information including number of calories. However, a
recent study has indicated that most people still favor
home cooking or cooking meals from scratch [12]; in
Europe, 52% and the US, 44% of people prefer scratch
cooking. Average family cooks may not know how many
calories are in their cooked meals after raw food ingre-
dients are mixed and cooked, or whether these meals are
considered healthy and offer a good number of calories
for their family members. One of the reasons is that the
average family cook cannot easily follow the steps of
calculating calories during an intense cooking activity:
first they have to estimate accurately the amount (weight)
(c)(a) (b)
(c)
(d) (e)
showing the current water usage in comparison to the
average household water usage, the system encourages
behavioral change toward water conservation. Out [16]
designed a high-tech doll that resembles a human baby to
simulate the difficulty of caring for a baby. The target
users are teenagers with the goal being to prevent teen
pregnancy. The doll contains an embedded computer that
triggers a crying sound at random intervals. To stop the
crying, a caregiver must pay immediate attention to the
doll by inserting a key into the back of the baby for a
specific length of time to simulate a care session. Car-
Coach [17] is an educational car system that can utilize
sensors in a car to detect good or bad driving habits, such
as excessive braking, sudden acceleration, the use of
signals when turning, etc. Subsequently, CarCoach aims
to provide polite, proactive, and considerate feedback to
drivers by factoring into their mental state and current
road conditions.
Fig. 6. The picture on the left shows the embedded RFID and weighing
table surfaces, and the picture on the right shows a dining scenario.
CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
In the past two years, the NTU iCare Project has been
supported by research grants from the National Science
Council of Taiwan, the NTU Research Excellence Pro-
gram, Intel Worldwide Education Foundation, and IBM
Taiwan. The iCare 2.0, a three-year research proposal,
has been approved by the National Science Council
Taiwan to focus on intelligent and playful user interaction
in real-world environments. Some of the ongoing iCare
2.0 projects are described as follows:
ADL-aware Home
ADL-aware Home [22][23], Recognizing patterns of
human activities is an important enabling technology for
building intelligent systems for assisted cognition. Ex-
isting approaches to human activity recognition often
focus on mutually exclusive activities. In reality, people
routinely carry out multiple concurrent activities. Our
approach to activity recognition adopts a variety of
probabilistic models to reason about sequential and
co-temporal relationships among multiple concurrent
human activities from heterogeneous sensor data, both
wearable and in the environment. In addition, we apply
machine learning techniques to emotion recognition us-
ing physiological signals from wireless wearable sensors.
CoESM
CoESM [24] is a collaborative, context-aware ex-
perience sampling method to record experience samples
of depressed patients. The goal of CoESM is to help a
psychologist gain better understanding of their depressed
patient’s physical and social activity levels. It is devel-
oped on a mobile device, such as a cell phone (shown in
Fig. 7,) equipped with location (i.e., a GPS receiver) and
activity (e.g., an accelerometer) sensors. From this mo-
bile device, CoESM collects experience samples by de-
livering and prompting questionnaires to patients. Con-
ditions to trigger questionnaires are dynamic and context
dependent. This enables an inquiring psychologist to
specify conditions matching potential activating events of
interests. When a patient completes a questionnaire,
CoESM automatically logs a timestamp, and records the
current context such as location, physical and social ac-
tivity level. One of the interesting features of CoESM is
collaboration. It enables caregivers (i.e., family and
friends) to participate in recording patients’ experience 
after they have had a face-to-face contact with patients.
To detect a face-to-face contact, a patient’s phone peri-
odically scans any nearby phone via Bluetooth. If a
nearby phone belongs to a known participating caregiver,
a questionnaire is delivered to the caregiver’s phone 
through SMS messaging.
PROJECT WEBSITE AND VIDEOS
The iCare project website is located in
http://mll.csie.ntu.edu.tw/icare. The video links for the
Object Tracker, the Playful Tray, the Playful Toothbrush,
the Diet-aware Dining Table, etc., can also be found on
the iCare website.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT(S)
We would like to thank National Science Council in
Taiwan under grants NSC 95-2218-E-002-026 and
95-2218-E-002-023, and Intel Education Taiwan for their
