 本計畫之成果已有論文發表於” 18th International Conference on Systems Research, 
Informatics and Cybernetics (InterSymp’2006), Baden-Baden, Germany, August 7 – August 
12, 2006.” 題目為“The 3D Motion Analysis System Based on Kinematics”內容如後： 
 
including medical, military, entertainments, education, etc. Analysis of motions in a 3D scene 
becomes a useful technology, if 3D animated actors in a motion library could be reused or 
applied to education (Akanksha et al, 2001). Figure 1 shows the kinematical motion model of 
standing long jump presented by VRML file, and its kinematical features (Haywood, 1993).     
 
   Figure 1:  3D human motion model of “standing long jump” and its kinematical features 
(Haywood, 1993) 
 
 Automatic analysis of 3D human body motion is a challenge research topic. But, most 
existing motion analysis systems are designed based on 2D video information. Examples of 
behavior understanding of video can be found in (Rosales and Sclaroff, 1999) and (Ude, 1999). 
By using body pose vectors, human body motion recognition is presented in (Yabe and Tanaka, 
1999) and (Mori and Uehara, 2001). But, these systems are designed based on mathematics or 
informatics. Our motion analysis system is designed according to not only mathematics and 
informatics, but also kinematics (Haywood, 1993) and (Payne and Isaacs, 2002). 
 This paper presents a human motion analysis system based on kinematics, which allows 
user to analyze the 3D motions via Internet. The rest of this paper is organized as follows. The 
skeleton and kinematical features for representing the human body are described in section 2. 
Section 3 presents the recognition of motions. Section 4 describes the procedure of motions 
analysis. Finally, a short conclusion is given in section 5. 
 
2.  Representation of Skeleton 
The body skeleton for motion tracking is represented by 16 feature joints include head, shoulder, 
elbow, spine, neck, pelvis, hip, knee, and foot, which represent different sets of body joint 
motions as illustrated in figure 2. These feature joints are constructed as the representation of 
VRML object that store human body segment motion. 
 3D animations should be retrieved based on the existing animation models. In a practical 
situation, some feature joints are less significant as compared to some joints with a high 
momentum. For sack of computation efficiency, some of the feature joints are skipped. Figure 3 
shows the kinematical feature angles of leg used in our system.  
 2
two human motions based on dynamic programming, which solves problems by combining the 
solutions of sub-problems and is typically applied to optimization problems. 
 
4. Procedure of Motions Analysis 
 
Figure 4: Overview of system architecture 
 4
