新多位元 SONOS 非揮發性記憶體之研發 
“Research of New Multi-bits SONOS Nonvolatile Memory” 
 
計畫編號：NSC95－2221－E－110－111 
執行期間：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：林 吉 聰, 中山大學電機系副教授 
 
一、 中文摘要 
快閃記憶體成為記憶體製造業的主流，不
同於傳統的記憶單元需要至少一個電晶體和
一個電容，它可以節省空間和製作成本，另外
快閃記憶體在儲存時間，和準位判讀上都比傳
統記憶體良好。即使這樣的快閃記憶體比起傳
統的電晶體藉合電容的記憶細胞好，但我們並
不因此滿足，因為即使是這樣的快閃記憶體仍
維持一個細胞儲存一個位元的傳統限制，當我
們想要輸入一串位元流，我們免不了需要一個
快閃記憶體陣列去儲存這樣的位元流，每個快
閃記憶體間又需要金屬線去做聯結，這樣會造
成讀取時間的延長，並壓縮電路設計時脈上的
邊界限制。因此我們有一個新的構想，若是只
用一個單一快閃記憶體去儲存更多位元呢？
很顯然的，在資料讀取上會更快，另外，在每
位元的製造成本上也會有效降低，我們認為這
樣的多位元快閃記憶體將能使非揮發性記憶
體架構發揮得更好，並更進一步的減少所需空
間及讀取時間，若這樣的多位元SONOS 非揮發
性記憶體架構被證實是可行的，我們很有信心
這會對記憶體工業帶來另一種面貌。 
我們的方法是增加輸入的埠數，有別於傳
統的類MOS，一汲極一源極的架構，當一序列
的位元依序輸入每個埠，並定義了那個埠對應
的電子陷入區區域的狀態（有電子陷入或
無），當某數量的位元輸入完畢，電子陷入區
的電子陷入區塊也被決定，接著去誘導出下層
薄膜主動區的電洞通道圖形，而這樣的電洞通
道圖形會被電路讀出並還原之前的輸入位元
流。另外我們也會在本文中詳細提出一些其他
方法，使這個架構的功能能被加強或擴充。 
英文摘要 
Flash memory becomes a mainstream for 
research direction and pipeline of manufacture, 
flash memory replaces conventional 1T1C 
storage device recently. Such device promises a 
long detention time, distinct programming 
window, simplified process and smaller volume 
occupation. Undoubtedly, these characteristic let 
it become a potential and promising candidate in 
the near future. 
Although such advantages, we would not 
satisfy with the performance of the state 
-of-the-art tech. currently, one flash memory can 
only provide one bit storage, when we want to 
write in a series of bits stream, we need a array 
of such devices, it means when we come to read 
it out, we cannot avoid reading cell by cell, the 
time dilation due to the metal line connection 
among cells narrows the design margin.  
Here we announce a possible device, which 
can afford to memorize more information in one 
single device. It will boost and exploit the flash 
mechanism more, a furthermore volume cutting 
down, and faster response time can be 
predictable. Still, the average fabrication 
complexity (fabrication expenditure per bit) can 
be reduced. If the device can be proven practical 
and reliable for industrial sector, we can assume 
a new phase of storage medium confidently. 
Our method is to modify the tradition Flash 
SONOS memory, we increase more input 
terminals, and let the bit stream input to every 
terminal by terms, and the different voltage level 
(or bit1/0) will decide the regional trapping 
states in the nitride layer. The defined nitride 
layer will induce different pattern of hole 
channels in the thin film zone and give the 
opportunity to read out the original bit stream, 
we will give the detail the following and more 
developed way to boost the performance of this 
announced device. 
 
Fig. 2 Four programming modes and the related 
threshold voltage, (a) drain write mode, and set 
source floated (high impedance), the trapping 
electrons will condense into right hand part of 
nitride region; (b) source write mode; (c) double 
write mode gives strongest trapping and highest 
threshold voltage; (d) non-writing mode; (e) 
given a compared diagram of threshold level due 
to different operational mode. SONO  
 
Fig. 3 An UFO-like shape SONOS device to 
enhance the defined hole-channel pattern.  
Working explanation 
As a five terminal SONOS device shown in 
Fig. 4, for the programming instruction, we will 
add high voltage on Gate terminal, and then 
fetch four serial bits as (1,1,0,1) and feed each 
bit to four planar edges by terms due to input 
controller, the input signal ‘1’ will be defined as 
the negative voltage, ‘0’ will mean zero 
(compared level), just one edge connected to the 
controller can access the signal and others will 
set floating every operation, like Fig. 5, the label 
is default arrangement (counterclockwise 
encoding) and input signals will send to labels 
by controller defined.  
Because the enough voltage gap will afford 
sufficient energy and guide electron in the body 
originally to follow the electrical field path to 
penetrate the BOX and reach the nitride layer, 
and trapped locally. The finish of this example 
instruction will give a trapping pattern in the 
nitride layer by top-view showing in Fig. 6 and 
Fig. 7.  
Pay attention here we will miniature the 
area of Gate terminal that the electrical field path 
will condense to a line-like, thus the active 
trapping region will be concentrated and separate 
more clearly, and guarantee trapping efficiently 
as Fig. 8 describes.  
 
Fig. 4 A simplified new five-terminals SONOS 
structure. 
 
 
Fig. 5 An input serial signals pass through the 
controller and fetch to the default destination. 
 
 
Fig. 6 Different electrical field lines decide 
stimulated electron trajectory. 
 
Fig. 7 Top-view of trapping pattern under the 
nitride layer, the black area indicates high 
to Vdd, here we have reading result like 
(X,0,1,0), then we shift grounding edge to label 
‘2’, and exceptional case about reading series 
occurs as (0,X,0,weaker 0) according to 
quantized current table. Actually (1,X,1,0) is 
what we want but the super weaker hole-channel 
(the path from label’2’ to label ‘4’) appears here 
and give the third state of quantized current. For 
conducting such condition, we would access 
other algorithm to decide the reading types what 
the old one can’t overcome.  
Fig. 13 is another possible tactic to estimate 
the reading result, we need a comparator here to 
complete current comparison, no matter what 
current we read, we just set the higher current as 
‘1’ and others ‘0’, but the precondition is a 
threshold current like the doorsill to embark 
weaker 0 (caused by super weaker hole-channel) 
for compared work, it is easy if we control 
weaker 0 current negligible to be detected. This 
concept can dissolve all cases and read out 
smooth and equivalent stored dates, and many 
SONOS cells can share one comparator by terms 
to save resources, but the two times reading is 
also necessary here.  
 
 
Fig. 12 (1,0,1,0,) trapping pattern and 
trapping pattern induces similar hole-channel 
pattern (projection) in the plane. 
 
Fig. 13 The new architecture with a 
comparator to realize the function gives an 
alternative to replace an old algorithm. 
 
Now we should face some following tough 
issues and give flexible and feasible way to 
circumvent them.  
First problem is the current gap, due to the 
projected electrical field benefiting each other 
will give a practical, vague pattern as Fig. 10, 
also the channel to channel interference, the 
current prepared to be read as ‘1’ and ‘0’ will be 
blurred, the intuitive feeling is to amplify the 
difference of strength of induced channel, here 
we import a new shape like UFO in Fig. 14, the 
trapping pattern existed in the nitride layer of the 
above ONO and the beneath ONO will 
contribute it’s influence to the plane 
hole-channel pattern, the strength of induced 
channel will be enhanced and approve the 
accurate detection like the compared diagrams in 
Fig. 15.  
But this new architecture will face a fatal 
drawback, the fabrication difficulty, because it 
seems to be impossible to implement such 
dangling device in the real world until we can 
find a sustaining source.  
 
Fig. 14 An enhanced SONOS device is tough for 
fabrication due to no sustaining base.  
 
 
Fig. 15 An clear pattern and a partial corrupted 
pattern of hole-channel area. 
 
Except we miniature the signal-feeding 
edge and Gate to the utmost for a reasonable 
trapping pattern and projected hole-channel 
pattern in the plane, here leave some space for 
progression.  
The other challenge is the additional 
peripheral components, like input controller, 
grounding shift circuit and OR-like circuit for 
combination of two reading series, this burden 
will trade off the reduced storage volume and 
reading speed.  
Also, when we execute the erasing step, it is 
evitable to demolish all stored four-bits like Fig. 
16, the selective erasing method will be 
meaningful for this multi-bits device. The more 
complicate wire distribution will impact the 
correct function especially the feature size comes 
to smaller, the disturbance will be more serious 
and unpredictable. 
 
Fig. 16 An erased step will eliminate all 
stored dates. 
 
＂ 
3. P. Pavan, R. Bez, P. Olovo, and E. Zanoni, “Flash 
memory cells-an overview,” Proc. IEEE, vol. 85, pp. 
1248–1271, Aug. 1997  
4. ROBERTO BEZ, EMILIO CAMERLENGHI, 
ALBERTO MODELLI, AND ANGELO VISCONTI” 
Introduction to Flash Memory” PROCEEDINGS OF 
THE IEEE, VOL. 91, NO. 4, APRIL 2003  
5. Min.She” Semiconductor Flash Memory Scaling” 
Engineering-Electrical Engineering and Computer 
Sciences in the GRADUATE DEVISION of the 
UVIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY Fall 
2003  
6. M. L. French, C.-Y. Chen, H. Sathianathan, and M. H. 
White, “Design and scaling of a SONOS 
multidielectric device for nonvolatile memory 
applications,” IEEE Trans. Comp., Packag., Manufact. 
Technol. A, vol. 17, pp. 390–397, Mar. 1994.  
7. B. Eitan, P. Pavan, I. Bloom, E. Aloni, A. Frommer, 
and D. Finzi, “NROM: A novel localized trapping, 
2-bit nonvolatile memory cell,” IEEE Electron Device 
Lett., vol. 21, pp. 543–545, Aug. 2000.  
8. Dennis A. Adams1, Joseph T. Smith1, James R. 
Murray2, Marvin H. White3, Stephen Wrazien3” 
Design, Fabrication and Characterization of High 
Density Radiation Hardened SONOS/CMOS 
EEPROMs for Space and Military 
Systems”IEEE,pp.60-64,2004  
9. Rajiv Verma Semiconductor Products Group Q&R 
Intel Corporation 5000 W. Chandler Blvd., Chandler, 
AZ85226 “Flash Memory Quality and Reliability 
Issues” 1996 IEEE  
10. Seiji Yamada, Member, ZEEE, Tomoko Yamane, 
Kazumi Amemiya, and Kiyomi Naruke” A 
Self-Convergence Erase for NOR Flash EEPROM 
Using Avalanche Hot Carrier Injection” 
IEEEIRANSACTIONS ON ELECTRON DEVICES, 
VOL 41, NO 11, NOVEMBER 1996  
11. S. Yamada, T. Suzuki, E. Obi, M. Oshikiri, K. Naruke, 
and M. Wada, “self-convergence erasing scheme for a 
simple stacked gate Flash EEPROM,” IEDM Tech. 
Dig., 1991, pp. 307–310. 
