and transmitter concept, which is widely, used for 
its flexibility and versatility in many radio 
systems. The two years proposal is presented in this 
project. We study and design the software acquisition 
methods in GPS/Galileo systems. (a) The acquisition 
of a GNSS signal is a two dimensional search process, 
where the carrier offset of received signal and the 
phase of C/A code have to be decided simultaneously. 
The FFT-based schemes can significantly speed up the 
acquisition process comparing with the time domain 
ones. Two acquisition methods in frequency-domain 
processing are proposed, i.e., namely split-radix-2/4 
FFT and split-radix 2/8 FFT architectures. The 
expectancy of the split-radix algorithms can require 
fewer multiply and add operations, and increase the 
software acquisition efficiency. (b) A new cyclic 
shift-and-combine (CSC) code for code acquisition in 
a Galileo receiver is proposed. This code is derived 
by cyclically shifting a spreading code multiple 
times and combining all the shifted codes. This 
proposed CSC code, like the original spreading code, 
can be used to despread the received signal and 
extract the code-phase information in acquisition. 
Then the proposed acquisition methods are developed 
on the DSP platform and the performance is evaluated 
and compared with the conventional methods. 
 
英文關鍵詞： GNSS receiver, direct sequence spread spectrum (DS-
SS), Software-defined radios (SDR), split-radix FFT, 
shift-and-combine (CSC) code, 
 
(一）報告內容 
1. Introduction 
Nowadays GNSS (Global Navigation Satellite System) has been widely used in many civil and 
military applications. In 2004, the EU and US make an agreement to establish a common baseline 
signal BOC [4, 8] for the Galileo OS and the modernized civil GPS signal on the L1 frequency. 
The BOC resulting split spectrum signal effectively enables frequency sharing, while providing 
attributes that include simple implementation, good spectral efficiency, high accuracy, and 
enhanced multipath resolution. However, BOC modulation brings some drawbacks for multiple 
peaks, which complicates signal acquisition process of miss-detection or wrong peak selection 
being higher. In order to avoid the ambiguities of the absolute value of ACF, the unambiguous 
BPSK-like algorithm, which can be seen as a superposition of two BPSK modulated signals, is 
employed to solve this difficulty. The CSC method is also presented to reduce the search space of 
code phases and acquisition computation complexities in this paper. 
There have been few studies on the Galileo satellite system design under distinct acquisition 
method environ-ments. Several techniques are proposed to solve caused by the BOC modulation 
problems [1, 2]. However, the search space is too complicated and time-consuming problem not 
yet resolved. The only reduce the search complexity to the current references commonly used 
method is to change the structure of its spreading code, such as the CSC [3]. Although the 
orthogonality of the modified code will not be as good as the original code when there is 
degradation of maximum correlation gain. And modify the spreading code and then through the 
BOC modulation have multiple peaks, which complicate signal acquisition process. With 
BPSK-like techniques to assist BOC for ACF signal modulation caused by the ambiguous to 
change the signal characteristics to become the only single peak. In this use of the Galileo 
satellite system of two technologies on the issues encountered its processes. 
Once the acquisition process starts, the Doppler induced frequency offset of the received signal 
is compensated by a number controlled oscillator (NCO) with a preset Doppler bin. After the 
compensation process for the frequency offset is finished, the original spreading code is 
cyclically shifted by 1/4 its length for four groups and then four groups cyclically shifted are 
combined or added to form a CSC code where the CSC code is original spreading code by half its 
length. In this step, the band-pass filtered BOC signals with the BPSK-like architecture are 
correlated with CSC code stated above. Then, the parallel FFT/IFFT structures are utilized to 
perform the frequency domain correlation. When the non-coherent integration processing has 
been accomplished, the maximal peak out of 2 ms search results of code phases is compared to a 
detection threshold. If the testing statistic has passed the threshold test, the acquisition is finished 
and can be tried to enter the tracking process. 
2. Galileo Signal Model 
The received Galileo E1B OS signal [7] from a satellite of the Galileo system can be represented 
as [5, 6] ： 
  
 
Figure 1.  Principle of the cyclically shift-and-combine method 
The Galileo original spreading code signal (4092 chips / 4 ms) were divided into four groups 
with different code phase of cutting spreading code, and each set of cutting the length of 
spreading code for the 1023 chips / 1 ms . 
Step one, we will be cutting the spreading code, and order the number is 1,2,3,4. The number 1 
that the spreading code corresponding to the cutting  of the original spreading codes. 
The number 2 that the spreading code corresponding to the cutting   of the original 
spreading code. The number 3 that the spreading code corresponding to the cutting  
of the original spreading code.   The number 4 that the spreading code corresponding to the 
cutting  of the original spreading code. 
Step two, we will be cutting marked the spreading code of four groups. And two groups will be 
divided into new one group. The new groups are made of the number 12,23,34,41. And the each 
groups composed of four groups corresponding to sub-spreading code. 
Step three, the four groups of produced by the sub-spreading code directly for add, have half a 
head of a new degree of the original spreading code. Here, this new group of spreading codes 
with code named cyclic shift (Cyclic Shifted-and-Combined Code), referred to as CSC code. 
Using this new group of spreading codes and receive incoming signals for the correlation 
operation, this method is equivalent to the spreading code for each group of children were 
associated with the received signal for the operation, after adding; although the basis of this 
approach will produce two main Peak , but the two peaks will be the impact of the spreading code 
cutting, while the peak amplitude of the correlation function caused by decay, in addition, the 
peak and in the resulting phase shift between the actual code, there is a corresponding 
relationship between the use of this code will be available to assist the judging phase, this 
relationship is as follows: 
           (4) 
where the ； N = 4；  using the above relation, the code phase of the 
judge, the need to verify the code phase offset four groups (Code Phase Shift), a peak which can 
be confirmed as the true code phase offset; described as follows: Assuming the original spreading 
code  to , the received signal  to , the 
original spreading code correlation function (Full Code Correlation Function) can be expressed as 
follows： 
     (5)   
where the  for the modular arithmetic (Module Arithmetic), which is defined as: 
            Positive Integer      
According to Eq. (4) can be found that the correlation function peak code phase shift  fall 
position. CSC for the proposed method, assuming that the new spreading code (i.e. CSC code) for 
the： 
4.1 BPSK-like technology explanation 
At the output of the correlation, we get the correlation value between the incoming signal and 
BPSK-like architecture, which can be represented as： 
 
                                                      (8) 
 
                                                    (9) 
where  is the CSC spreading code. The integration and dump function blocks sum up their 
input data  and  for I and Q channels, respectively, with each 
correlation interval equal to  (where M is the decimation or down sample factor). 
Then the outputs of the digital accumulator’s  become： 
  
                                       (10)                             
After calculation, it can be written as:  
                                              (11) 
 Signal into real and imaginary components： 
                         
                         
                           
                          
where  is multiplied by  architecture;  is multiplied by 
 architecture;  is the local delay time;  is the local Doppler shift;  
is the local phase offset received signal;  represents the correlation function between the 
received BOC signal and the local Galileo PRN code modulated by .  
represents the correlation function between the received BOC signal and the local Galileo PRN 
code modulated by . 
Noise is divided into real and imaginary components： 
  
                                (16)  
  
                                (17)  
4.2 Acquisition algorithm 
Start
Frequency offset compensation
Despreading by the modified CSC code
BPSK-like architectures
A
ll D
oppler bins are tested
Frequency domain processing
Maximal peak > 
1
Change D
oppler bin
Verification by the original spreading code 
with respect to four code-phase shifts
Code phase with maximum peak is chosen
Tracking start
Maximal peak > 
2
Band-pass filtering
Search the next satellite
Yes
Yes
No
No
No
Yes
 
Figure 4.  Acquisition flow chart for process 
Search for detection signal and code phase is divided into some judgments of the algorithm 
with the BPSK-like structure to be integrated. Start acquisition signal, the Doppler induced 
frequency offset of the received signal is compensated by a number controlled oscillator (NCO) 
with a preset Doppler bin. After the compensation process for the frequency offset is finished, the 
modified CSC code is used to replacing the BPSK-like architectures of the local spreading code 
in the frequency domain processing. When the frequency domain processing has been 
accomplished, the maximal peak out of 2 ms search results of code phases is compared to a 
detection threshold . If the testing statistic is less than , the value of the Doppler bin is 
altered and the correlation/integration process is repeated. Given all Doppler bins are failed in the 
flow chart, the targeted satellite is considered to be absent, i.e., the acquisition unit is ready for 
searching next satellite. If the testing statistic has passed the first threshold test, verification by 
the original spreading code with respect to four code-phase shifts and code phase with maximum 
peak is chosen. Determine the correlation function value is greater than a threshold  that is the 
corresponding code phase shift and enter the tracking section. 
5. Simulation results 
In this section, we use MATLAB tool to implement the CSC method and BPSK-like structure 
to replace the original E1b Galileo spreading code. The received frequency offset is set to 
9.548MHz. Assuming the frequency offset of the received satellite signal is located somewhere 
between −5 ~+5 kHz, and the frequency step during the Doppler search is set to 125 Hz. 
In Figure 5(a), it shows the two-dimensional autocorrelation function from the received Galileo 
signal and our proposed CSC method. The integration time is 2 ms and the SNR of all satellites 
are set as -20 dB, which represents an appropriate signal quality. In Figure 5(b), if the integration 
Figure 7 shows the simulation-based histogram for correct and incorrect bins under different 
CNR environments. A test statistic is calculated in each search window according to the current 
correlation results. In this simulation, the distribution of the output is based on the chi-square 
random variable. In Fig. 7(a) (b), the noise only condition is central chi-square distribution and 
the Galileo signal with noise is non-central chi-square distribution. In Fig. 7(c), it can be observed 
that CSC method has a better performance under difference CNR. It is shown that the detection 
probability of CSC method is good enough for Galileo signal acquisition. 
 
(a) CNR=25 dB-Hz 
 
(b) CNR=30 dB-Hz 
 
(c) Probability of detection vs. CNR for CSC method 
Figure 7.  Histogram of 5,000 data samples in BPSK-like method.(a) CNR= 25 dB-Hz; (b) 
CNR= 30 dB-Hz.(c) Probability of detection vs. CNR for CSC method. 
Finally, CSC method will destroy the original spreading code orthogonality, if the SNR less to 
lead orthogonality even worse, so the peak attenuation effect will result in code phase of the 
judging error. While there back in the signal code phase search to determine the code phase error 
is corrected. However, signal attenuation and multi-peak signal to set the threshold mechanism of 
(二)計畫成果自評: 
 
本計劃於 2011 年 12 月，已發表以下期刊論文。 
1. W. L. Mao*, and W. C. Ma, Ying-Ren Chien, and Chia-Hao Ku “Design of Adaptive IIR filter 
for GPS anti-jamming system”, Circuit, Systems and Signal Processing, Vol. 30, No. 3, pp. 
527-542, 2011. (SCI= 0.794, EI). 
2. Yu-Tang Lee*, Chia-Ming Chang, Wei-Lung Mao, Fan-Ren Chang, Hen-Wai Tsao, 
“Low-Complexity Matched Filter Based Correlator for Simultaneously Acquiring GPS Satellites”, 
IET Radar, Sonar and Navigation, Vol. 4, Issue 5, pp. 712~723, Oct. 2010. (SCI=0.981, EI, 
31/77 ). 
3. Jyh Sheen, Zuo-Wen Hong, Weihsing Liu, and Wei-Lung Mao, "Studies of dielectric constant 
measurements at microwave frequency using mixing equations-The analyses on five rules, 
"Microwave and Optical Technology Letters, vol. 53, no. 11, pp. 2481-2485, Nov. 2011. 
4. 毛偉龍 , 曾維胤 , 王偉銘 , 陳柏宏 , 沈自 , “伽利略系統信號搜尋架構研究 ”, 
Communication of IICM, 第十三卷第四期, pp.1-12, 中華民國九十九年十二月. 
5.鄭仰宏 , 沈自 , 劉偉行 , 毛偉龍 , 邱振剛 , 具較寬截止頻帶微波帶通濾波器之設計 , 
Communication of IICM, 第十三卷第四期, pp.1-12, 中華民國九十九年十二月. 
5. 毛偉龍、林柄宏、曾蜂元、呂炤易、沈自、陳柏宏、莊賦祥, “ＺigBee 無線網路於太陽
能板監控系統之應用”電子月刊, 2010 年十一月號, 第 184 期.  
 
本計劃於 2011 年 12 月，已發表以下研討會論文。 
1. C-W. Chen, S-H. Chen, W-L. Mao H-W. Tsao, , A 2-D Parallel Differential Matched Filter 
(PDMF) used as Correlator of GPS Acquisition for Low-Complexity Design: C-W, ION GNSS 
2011 Conference, September 19-23, 2011, Portland, Oregon.  
2. Wei-Lung Mao, Wei-Yin Zeng, Jyh Sheen, Wei-Ming Wang, “Unambiguous BOC 
Acquisition in Galileo Signal”, Proceedings of the 11th WSEAS International Conference on 
SIGNAL PROCESSING, COMPUTATIONAL GEOMETRY and ARTIFICIAL VISION 
(ISCGAV '11), Florence, Italy, pp. 119-124, August 23-25, 2011. (EI) (ISBN: 
978-1-61804-029-9) 
3. Po-Hung Chen, Hung-Ming Chen, Wei-Lung Mao, , Jia-Ming Chang, , Ching-Chung Liu,  
“Unified Architecture Design of all Transforms for VC-1 Codec”, 2nd International Symposium 
on Computer Network and Multimedia Technology (CNMT2010), 24-26 December 2010, Wuhan 
China.(EI)  
4. Wei-Lung Mao, Yong-Chang Zhang, Wei-Yin Zeng, Chia-Hao Ku, Po-Hung Chen, 
“Unambiguous BOC Signal Acquisition with CSC Method”, 2010 INTERNATIONAL 
SYMPOSIUM ON GPS/ GNSS 2010, Taipei, Taiwan, October 26-28, 2010.  
5. Chia-Wei Chen, Hen-Wai Tsao, and Wei-Lung Mao, “Low Complexity FFT-based 
Acquisition Design for GPS”, 2010 INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM ON GPS/ GNSS 2010, 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
 
1. 心得報告、 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 99-2221-E-150 -048 - 
計畫名稱 新型 GNSS 軟體接收機信號搜尋與追蹤迴路設計研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
毛偉龍, 國立虎尾科技大學電子系所, 副教授 
會議時間地點 Florence, Italy, August 23-25, 2011. 
會議名稱 
Proceedings of the 11th WSEAS International Conference on SIGNAL PROCESSING, 
COMPUTATIONAL GEOMETRY and ARTIFICIAL VISION (ISCGAV '11) 
發表論文題目 
Wei-Lung Mao, Wei-Yin Zeng, Jyh Sheen, Wei-Ming Wang, “Unambiguous BOC Acquisition 
in Galileo Signal”, Proceedings of the 11th WSEAS International Conference on SIGNAL 
PROCESSING, COMPUTATIONAL GEOMETRY and ARTIFICIAL VISION (ISCGAV '11), 
Florence, Italy, pp. 119-124, August 23-25, 2011. (EI) (ISBN: 978-1-61804-029-9). 
 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
本次研討會由 WSEAS/ IAASAT 主辦，場地為 Florence 的 Grand Hotel Baglioni ，共計三天，主
題為 Recent Advances in Signal Processing, Computational Geometry, and System Theory, 近一百多篇論文
進行發表，共邀請數位 invited speaker, 分別如下： 
1. Professor Yuriy S. Shmaliy (Department of Electronics DICIS, Guanajuato University): 演講主題為
Robustness of Unbiased FIR Estimators against Outliers and Temporary Uncertainties 
2. Professor Calin I. Ciufudean (Universtity of Suceava, ROMANIA): 演講主題為 Diagnosis of Flexible 
Artificial Social Systems。 
3. Prof. Jie Huang (Department of Mechanical and Automation, The Chinese University of Hong Kong ): 
演講主題為 Cooperated Output Regulation of Multi-Agent Systems: Theory and Applications. 
4. Professor Roberto Revetria(University of Genoa, ITALY): 演 講 主 題 為 Innovative Modeling 
Paradigms for Supporting Transition to Lean Healthcare. 
我參與以上四位演講者精采的演說，也對相關研究問題有進一步的認識與了解。 
 
Professor  
 
二、 與會心得 
  在本研討會中我共計發表一篇論文，主要是與 Galileo signal acquisition  相關的論文，為本年度研究的重點
方向，發表時間為 8/23, 下午兩點到四點，同時也收集到本次研討會相關研究的訊息，並與相關學者教授進
行交流，獲益匪淺。 
  第一次到義大利開會，觀察到義大利發展科技相關的決心與毅力，同時參訪 Universita degli Studi di 
Genova 大學研究環境與相關設備，通訊與信號處理領域相關研究與發展，有許多方面值得我們借鏡與學
習，充分表現出其強烈的企圖心。 
 
 
 Unambiguous BOC Acquisition in Galileo Signal 
 
 
Wei-Lung Mao, Wei-Yin Zeng, Jyh Sheen, Wei-Ming Wang 
Department of Electronic Engineering and Graduate of Electro-Optical and Materials Science, 
 National Formosa University, Yunlin County 632, Taiwan 
wlmao@nfu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract 
 
Galileo will be Europe’s own Global Navigation 
Satellite System (GNSS), which is aiming to provide 
highly accurate and guaranteed positioning services. 
Among several services for separate target groups, 
Galileo Open Services (OS) are designed for mass-
markets, and they will be available worldwide and free 
of charge for all users. Galileo E1 system has a code 
period of 4ms which is quadruple that of GPS C/A 
code. In other words, due to the large number of 
hypotheses in code phase at acquisition stage, a longer 
searching time or more hardware resource is required 
and a dual estimate receiver of binary offset carrier 
(BOC) signals for Galileo system applications is 
described. It is difficult to acquire Galileo signal 
because of longer code length and the autocorrelation 
function (ACF) of BOC modulation. In this paper, we 
use cyclically shift-and-combine (CSC) and BPSK-like 
architectures the impact of unambiguous acquisition 
algorithms for BOC modulation, and that proposed 
method acquires these satellite signals with hardware 
complexity reduction. The underlying concept in the 
method is to modify the code structure and shorten the 
code period such that the acquisition complexity can 
be decreased, but the orthogonality of the modified 
code will not be as good as the original code anymore. 
In the most cases of this paper, the performance 
degradation is acceptable when mean acquisition time 
is used as a performance metric. Simulation results 
show that our proposed search algorithm can provide 
better performance with low hardware complexity for 
acquiring these satellite signals and possible wrong 
peak selection in the low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) 
conditions. 
 
1. Introduction 
 
Nowadays GNSS (Global Navigation Satellite 
System) has been widely used in many civil and 
military applications. In 2004, the EU and US make an 
agreement to establish a common baseline signal BOC 
[4, 8] for the Galileo OS and the modernized civil GPS 
signal on the L1 frequency. The BOC resulting split 
spectrum signal effectively enables frequency sharing, 
while providing attributes that include simple 
implementation, good spectral efficiency, high 
accuracy, and enhanced multipath resolution. However, 
BOC modulation brings some drawbacks for multiple 
peaks, which complicates signal acquisition process of 
miss-detection or wrong peak selection being higher. 
In order to avoid the ambiguities of the absolute value 
of ACF, the unambiguous BPSK-like algorithm, which 
can be seen as a superposition of two BPSK modulated 
signals, is employed to solve this difficulty. The CSC 
method is also presented to reduce the search space of 
code phases and acquisition computation complexities 
in this paper. 
There have been few studies on the Galileo satellite 
system design under distinct acquisition method 
environ-ments. Several techniques are proposed to 
solve caused by the BOC modulation problems [1, 2]. 
However, the search space is too complicated and 
time-consuming problem not yet resolved. The only 
reduce the search complexity to the current references 
commonly used method is to change the structure of its 
spreading code, such as the CSC [3]. Although the 
orthogonality of the modified code will not be as good 
as the original code when there is degradation of 
maximum correlation gain. And modify the spreading 
code and then through the BOC modulation have 
multiple peaks, which complicate signal acquisition 
process. With BPSK-like techniques to assist BOC for 
ACF signal modulation caused by the ambiguous to 
change the signal characteristics to become the only 
single peak. In this use of the Galileo satellite system 
of two technologies on the issues encountered its 
processes. 
Once the acquisition process starts, the Doppler 
induced frequency offset of the received signal is 
number 12,23,34,41. And the each groups composed of 
four groups corresponding to sub-spreading code. 
Step three, the four groups of produced by the sub-
spreading code directly for add, have half a head of a 
new degree of the original spreading code. Here, this 
new group of spreading codes with code named cyclic 
shift (Cyclic Shifted-and-Combined Code), referred to 
as CSC code. 
Using this new group of spreading codes and 
receive incoming signals for the correlation operation, 
this method is equivalent to the spreading code for 
each group of children were associated with the 
received signal for the operation, after adding; 
although the basis of this approach will produce two 
main Peak , but the two peaks will be the impact of the 
spreading code cutting, while the peak amplitude of the 
correlation function caused by decay, in addition, the 
peak and in the resulting phase shift between the actual 
code, there is a corresponding relationship between the 
use of this code will be available to assist the judging 
phase, this relationship is as follows: 
                
                  
     
                                                
            (4) 
where the        ； N = 4；   
       using 
the above relation, the code phase of the judge, the 
need to verify the code phase offset four groups (Code 
Phase Shift), a peak which can be confirmed as the true 
code phase offset; described as follows: Assuming the 
original spreading code     to                   , 
the received signal     to                       , 
the original spreading code correlation function (Full 
Code Correlation Function) can be expressed as 
follows： 
                       
    
    
                 (5)   
where the            for the modular arithmetic 
(Module Arithmetic), which is defined as: 
                              Positive Integer      
According to Eq. (4) can be found that the 
correlation function peak code phase shift    fall 
position. CSC for the proposed method, assuming that 
the new spreading code (i.e. CSC code) for the： 
                
              
where the             is sub-spreading code, 
representing the                   
                                         
                                  
Then the corresponding mathematical correlation 
function, which can be expressed as follows: 
  
                        
 
  
 
  
    
        
  
 
     
                                    
  
 
  
    
  
                         
                    
  
 
  
    
    
                                 
                    
   (7) 
Among them, the correlation function of the peak 
falls code phase shift           and                
position, it can be known , CSC code corresponding to 
the peak position and the actual code phase shift, there 
is a relationship in the. Therefore, as long as the use of 
this relationship to verify four different sets of the 
corresponding code phase can be asked for the code 
phase offset. So from the above equation (4) shows, the 
letter number of possible phase shift position, in the 
four groups for the possible code phase correlation 
function, the correlation function from the value of 
four years. The maximum value out that is the 
corresponding shift code phase. 
 
4. The BPSK-like Method 
 
The BOC modulations split the signal spectrum into 
two symmetrical components around the carrier 
frequency, by multiplying the PRN code with a 
rectangular sub-carrier. But the ACF of a SinBOC(1,1) 
code has three peaks, not just one, so care must be 
taken to ensure that the correct one has been found. 
To obtain a correlation function whose shape is 
unambiguous, the BPSK-like method uses only one 
intermediate frequency with a bandwidth including the 
two principal lobes of the spectrum. The principle of 
this method is illustrated in Figure 2. The correlation 
outputs of the two channels are combined. 
Carrier NCO
I
Q
sin cos )2exp( SSCnTfj  )2exp( SSCnTfj 
CSC spreading code 
Integrate and 
Dump
Integrate and 
Dump
Integrate and 
Dump
Integrate and 
Dump
Channel
Combining
][ny IF
][1 kRB
][2 kRB
][3 kRB
][4 kRB
Figure 2.  Principle of the time domain BPSK-like 
method 
4.1 BPSK-like technology explanation 
 
At the output of the correlation, we get the 
correlation value between the incoming signal and 
BPSK-like architecture, which can be represented as： 
4.2 Acquisition algorithm 
Start
Frequency offset compensation
Despreading by the modified CSC code
BPSK-like architectures
A
ll D
oppler bins are tested
Frequency domain processing
Maximal peak > 
1
Change D
oppler bin
Verification by the original spreading code 
with respect to four code-phase shifts
Code phase with maximum peak is chosen
Tracking start
Maximal peak > 
2
Band-pass filtering
Search the next satellite
Yes
Yes
No
No
No
Yes
 
Figure 4.  Acquisition flow chart for process 
Search for detection signal and code phase is 
divided into some judgments of the algorithm with the 
BPSK-like structure to be integrated. Start acquisition 
signal, the Doppler induced frequency offset of the 
received signal is compensated by a number controlled 
oscillator (NCO) with a preset Doppler bin. After the 
compensation process for the frequency offset is 
finished, the modified CSC code is used to replacing 
the BPSK-like architectures of the local spreading code 
in the frequency domain processing. When the 
frequency domain processing has been accomplished, 
the maximal peak out of 2 ms search results of code 
phases is compared to a detection threshold   . If the 
testing statistic is less than   , the value of the Doppler 
bin is altered and the correlation/integration process is 
repeated. Given all Doppler bins are failed in the flow 
chart, the targeted satellite is considered to be absent, 
i.e., the acquisition unit is ready for searching next 
satellite. If the testing statistic has passed the first 
threshold test, verification by the original spreading 
code with respect to four code-phase shifts and code 
phase with maximum peak is chosen. Determine the 
correlation function value is greater than a threshold    
that is the corresponding code phase shift and enter the 
tracking section. 
5. Simulation results 
In this section, we use MATLAB tool to implement 
the CSC method and BPSK-like structure to replace 
the original E1b Galileo spreading code. The received 
frequency offset is set to 9.548MHz. Assuming the 
frequency offset of the received satellite signal is 
located somewhere between −5 ~+5 kHz, and the 
frequency step during the Doppler search is set to 125 
Hz. 
In Figure 5(a), it shows the two-dimensional 
autocorrelation function from the received Galileo 
signal and our proposed CSC method. The integration 
time is 2 ms and the SNR of all satellites are set as -20 
dB, which represents an appropriate signal quality. In 
Figure 5(b), if the integration processing has been 
accomplished, the maximal peak out of 2 ms search 
results of code phases is compared to a detection 
threshold. The Eq. (4) is applied here to determine the 
true code position between the two peaks in the 
correlation domain. 
However, if the maximum of them is larger than the 
threshold, the code phase and the Doppler frequency 
are fed into the tracking process, while the acquisition 
unit restarts to search another satellite signal. 
It is shown in Fig. 6 that the code phase peak is 
located at the 1554-th chip for different architectures. 
The ACFs of the BPSK-like method seems to be much 
higher than the performance of the SinBOC(1,1) one. 
The envelope of the ACF of SinBOC(1,1), where the 
sidelobes are clearly visible. These sidelobes will cause 
more challenges to the BOC acquisition process, and 
the BPSK-like method is utilized here to remove the 
additional peaks to improve the search stage. 
 
(a)  The ACF of  BPSK-like architecture 
important, so we used BPSK-like structure to lower the 
threshold value setting difficult. 
 
6. Conclusions 
 
In this paper the performance of unambiguous 
acquisition algorithms BPSK-like and CSC for Galileo 
system signals has been evaluated. The CSC method 
can be used to reduce the complexity of search 
procedures, but also cause attenuation of the 
orthogonal characteristics of the phase to go through a 
series of determine. However, through verification of 
simulation, an appropriate architecture for CSC method 
can determine the exact phase of the satellite signal and 
obtain phase information. In order to avoid the 
drawbacks of multiple peaks from BOC modulation, 
the BPSK-like search structure is used to yield only 
single peak. Based on the overall system we proposed, 
it is aims to accomplish the shortest possible time and 
do the best quality satellite search, not only for GPS, 
but covers the EU's Galileo satellite signals. 
 
7. References 
[1] V. Heiries, D. Roviras, L. Ries, V. Calmettes, “Analysis 
of Non Ambiguous BOC Signal Acquisition 
performance”, ION GNSS 17th International Technical 
Meeting of the Satellite Division, 21-24 Sept. 2004  
[2] Zaixiu Yang, Zhigang Huang, Shengqun Geng, 
“Unambiguous Acquisition  Performance Analysis of 
BOC(m,n) Signal “978-1-4244-4994-1/09/25.00 2009 
IEEE  
[3] Pei-Hsueh Lee, Dong-Hong Liu, Wei-Lung Mao, Hen-
Wai Tsao, Fan-Ren Chang, “A Novel Low-Complexity 
Acquisition Method for Next Generation GNSS Signals”  
[4] Md. Farzan Samad, “Effects of MBOC Modulation on 
GNSS Acquisition Stage” TAMPERE UNIVERSITY of 
TECHNOLOGY Department of Communication 
Engineering. 
[5] Kai Borre, Dennis M. Akos, Nicolaj Bertelsen, Peter 
Rinder, Soren Holdt Jensen, “A Software-Defined GPS 
and Galileo Receiver” 
[6] D. Borio, “A statistical theory for GNSS signal 
acquisition”, Ph.D. dissertation, Politecnico di Torino, 
2008 
[7] “Galileo Open Service – Signal In Space Interface 
Control Document (OS SIS ICD Draft 1),” © 2008 
European Space Agency / European GNSS   
Supervisory Authority 
[8] J. W. Betz. The Offset Carrier Modulation for GPS 
modernization. In Proc. of ION Technical Meeting, June 
1999 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：毛偉龍 計畫編號：99-2221-E-150-048- 
計畫名稱：新型 GNSS 軟體接收機信號搜尋與追蹤迴路設計研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 3 3 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 5 5 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 0 100%  
博士生 1 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 3 3 100% 3 篇 SCI paper 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 5 5 100% 
篇 
一 篇 EI 
conference,  一
篇 Ｉ Ｏ Ｎ
conference 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
