 1
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ▓成果報告   □期中進度報告 
 
普及位置感測：關鍵技術與應用之研發 
子計畫四：普及位置感測:動機引發技術之研發(I) 
 
計畫類別：□個別型計畫   ■整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC   100－2219－E－006－005－ 
執行期間：   100 年 05 月 01 日 至 101 年 05 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立成功大學 資訊工程學系 
 
計畫主持人：藍崑展 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：周建銘、王涵毅 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  ▓完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國  101  年  05  月  23  日 
Abstract
Mobile surveillance has been recently proposed as a replacement
for traditional road-side surveillance system. One important aspect of
a mobile surveillance system is to decide what are the events of inter-
est. In this work, we adopt the concept of participatory sensing for
mobile surveillance by involving a human into the loop of data collec-
tion. Furthermore, we introduce a virtual credit based mechanism to
motivate the participants to collect data and share their bandwidth.
We perform an analysis of diﬀerent parameters which might aﬀect the
performance of such a system. Finally, we use a large-scale real-world
vehicle trace to evaluate the feasibility of our proposed framework.
Keywords: Mobile surveillance, participatory sensing, incentive,
credit system, vehicular ad hoc network.
II
List of Figures
1 The scenario examined in this work. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
2 Taxonomy of criteria for data quality. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
3 Flowchart. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
4 The eﬀect of speed on the average number of hops and the
success rate, P3G=0.1, Pr=0.1, ω=0.001 hr, ρ=15, R=0.1km. . 13
5 The eﬀect of radio range on the average number of hops and
the success rate, P3G=0.1, Pr=0.1, ω=0.001 hr, ρ=15, V=40
km/h. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
6 The eﬀect of the ratio of vehicles with 3G capabilities on the
average number of hops and the success rate, Pr=0.1, ω=0.001
hr, ρ=15, V=40 km/h, R=0.1 km. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
7 The eﬀect of speed and the ratio of vehicles with 3G capa-
bilities on the success rate, Pr=0.1, ω=0.001 hr, ρ=15, V=40
km/h, R=0.3 km. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
8 Comparison of diﬀerent Helper selection strategies. . . . . . . 15
9 The eﬀect of 3G penetration ratio on the success rate in Shang-
hai city. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
10 The eﬀect of radio range on the success rate in Shanghai city
(3G penetration rate: 0.1). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
11 The eﬀect of radio range on the vehicle inter-contact time in
Shanghai city (3G penetration rate: 0.1). . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
12 The number of relays required for the data to reach a 3G node. 17
13 The amount of travel time in the network before the data
reaches a 3G node. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
II
1 Introduction
Video surveillance is commonly used by the police and private security oﬃcers
to determine and investigate crimes and other incidents. For example, when
a car accident occurs, the police could use video record to ﬁnd out who was
at fault. However, it has been shown [1] that traditional ﬁxed installations of
surveillance systems often only lead to a movement of criminal behaviors to
neighboring areas which are not under surveillance, or are being monitored in
a less obvious fashion. To improve the capability of traditional systems which
need to deploy many cameras in speciﬁc locations for wide-area surveillance,
mobile surveillance systems [2–7] have been proposed to monitor events using
video sensors mounted on mobile devices.
One critical issue in a mobile surveillance system is to decide what are
the “interesting” or “unusual” events. Existing mobile surveillance systems
are generally designed to record the surrounding area continuously and send
the data back to a sink node (e.g. a server). Such an approach not only
increases the volume of data that needs to be analyzed, but also wastes
signiﬁcant network bandwidth on unwanted data. One way to resolve this
issue is to adopt the concept of “human computation” [8] by involving a
human into the loop of data collection, given that a person might have a
better insight than a machine about what data is worth collecting. This is
also known as participatory sensing [9], and is able to leverage the increasing
sensing capabilities found in consumer devices, such as smartphones or car
video cameras. Data collected from these mobile sensors provides the basis
for existing human-centered applications.
Participatory sensing places demands on the device owners, which could
potentially restrict the pool of willing participants. In this paper we focus on
a scenario of distributed vehicle-based mobile surveillance. We are motivated
by the observation that video-capable smartphone and in-car video cameras
are more and more common these days. Data recorded by these video sensors
can be used to reconstruct an accident scene or help police to locate the crime
suspect. Here we consider an architecture in which the participants are the
drivers or passengers in the cars. The data recorded by the video sensor
can be uploaded via the participant’s 3G-enabled smartphone to a server
and later shared with the other participants. For participants who do not
have a 3G connection to the Internet, they can “borrow” their neighboring
participants’ Internet connectivity. Such bandwidth sharing is achieved by
the data generator ﬁrst forwarding its data to a neighboring 3G-capable
participant via WiFi, and then the data is relayed to the server via the
Helper’s 3G connection. In such an architecture, one critical research issue is
how to promote the participants willingness to contribute their sensor data
1
tribution, mobility and degree of motion of the sensors. iMouse [4] provides
a WSN-based surveillance service combining the advantages of both WSN
and video surveillance systems. Camera sources are mounted on a moving
robot and the front-end sinks can be moving smart phones. Greenhill et
al. [2] proposed a mobile surveillance system based on observation streams
collected from mobile cameras mounted on buses. This approach supports
retrieval of raw images based on space time and geometry. However, these
works do not consider providing incentives to encourage participants in the
network to contribute their data or bandwidth.
In participatory sensing, each participant senses diﬀerent data, and many
projects have been launched in this area, some of which are described below.
• Environment: NoiseTube [10] is participatory application monitoring
noise pollution using mobile phones. Suelo [11] is an embedded net-
worked sensing system designed for soil monitoring.
• Entertainment: In the Micro-blog [12] project, users generate geo-
tagged multimedia called micro-blogs which are then transported over
an available wireless network, such as WiFi or cellular systems, to a
web-accessible database. BikeNet [13] is a mobile sensing system for
mapping the experience of cyclists.
• Transportation: Nericell [14] monitors road conditions using various
sensors in a smart phone to detect portholes and bumps, as well as
vehicles braking and honking their horns. Green GPS [15] is a ser-
vice that computes fuel-eﬃcient routes for vehicles between arbitrary
end-points by exploiting the vehicular sensor measurements available
through OBD-II.
• Commerce: Bulusu et al. [16] showed that it is feasible to process
and deliver product pricing information using the camera in a mobile
phone. Livecompare [17] is a system that enables users to ﬁnd bargains
in grocery stores and supermarkets using participatory sensing.
Users willingness to contribute their data is critical to the success of
participatory sensing. Cheng et al. [18] proposed a group-level incentive
scheme in which mobile users are grouped and share credits, with credits
earned by one user able to be consumed by other group members. Cui et
al. [19] introduced the concept of relay union, in which the relays have
direct access to WLAN, and earn credits by providing Internet access, while
clients pay credits to purchase this. They proposed a revenue and bandwidth
model, as well as an optimal pricing and bandwidth allocation strategy. ‘Tit
3
Figure 1: The scenario examined in this work.
this 3G node will help the source node upload the data and, as an incentive
for the 3G node, a certain percentage of credits earned for that data will be
allocated to this 3G Helper. Given that the source might not able to directly
encounter a 3G node, the source could forward the data to a neighboring non-
3G node ﬁrst, with the hope that this node might at some point encounter
a 3G one and then relay the data. In any case, every time when data is
relayed, some “commission” needs to be paid to the relay node to reward its
help. A simple scenario is shown in Fig. 1. In this work, for simplicity, we
use a ﬁxed commission rate for the relaying service. For example, if we set
the commission rate to 7:3, then the source will earn 70% of the total credits
for the data it generates; relay 1 will earn 21% (=30%×70%) and relay 2
will earn 9% (=30%×30%) of the total credits. Obviously, the last hop to
the server will earn the least credits. Therefore, we deﬁne the “minimum
utility” for such system, and the relay node will not consider relaying the
data if the amount credits that it might earn less than this. Furthermore,
we assume that the server will maintain an account for each node. When
the data is uploaded to the server, the server will update the account of
nodes that participated in the generation and relaying of this data based on
the credits they have earned. A node can use the credits in its account to
download data from the server when needed. In this work, we consider that
diﬀerent data can have diﬀerent utility, which represents the quality of the
data. In the database community, several metrics have been proposed to
estimate the quality of the data such as accuracy, completeness, relevance,
timeliness, and reputation [27]. We can broadly divide these metrics into two
groups, as shown in Fig. 2. The metrics in the ﬁrst group tend to change
their values over time.
5
Quality
Dynamic
Popularity Freshness Uniqueness
Location Time
Static
Completeness Accuracy Resolution
Figure 2: Taxonomy of criteria for data quality.
4.2 Compute the credits
In our incentive framework, we assume that each participant node wants to
earn as many credits as possible, where the amount of credits a participant
can earn is a function of the utility of the data. The initial utility of the data
when it is ﬁrst generated can be deﬁned as Eq.2
Uinitial = S (2)
where S is the size of the data. Once the data is generated, after a period of
time T , then the utility of the data becomes
U = S ∗ e−λT (3)
the data can be uploaded to the server by the source if the source has a 3G.
Otherwise, the data can be forwarded to a 3G node through one or more
relays. For the ﬁrst case, the credits that can be earned by the source are
CreditS = U ×D (4)
where D is the number of downloads of this data later by the other nodes
that occur later. For the second case, the credits that can be earned by the
source are
CreditS−R = CreditS × ξ (5)
where ξ is the enumeration rate. The credits that can be earned by the ith
relay is
CreditRi = CreditS × (1− ξ)i (6)
4.3 Profit-based forwarding protocol
The participant nodes in our system can be divided into following two kinds.
7
Send <A
CCEPT>
Select
Requester
Broadcast <HELLO>
Select
Helper
Wait for 
datadata
data
data
Last data
Requester Helper
Figure 3: Flowchart.
ﬂow chart is shown in Fig. 3, and the details are discussed below. When
a Helper receives a HELLO message from a Requester, it will ﬁrst estimate
their encounter duration [30] and see if they have enough time for the data
transmission. Here we deﬁne a encounter as when two nodes are within
each other’s radio range. This Requester is then added to the candidate
list of the Helper if the estimated encounter time is suﬃcient to complete
the data transfer. The Helper will periodically select the Requester from its
candidate list that is carrying the data with the highest utility value, which
can be estimated using Eq. 7, and send back an ACCEPT. To avoid looping,
Helper cannot relay the same data more than once. Similarly, the Requester
will also construct a candidate list and select a Helper which can bring it
the most proﬁt as the next relay to a 3G node. The idea here is to select
the next relay which will encounter a 3G node as early as possible. In this
study, we consider the use of three diﬀerent metrics for choosing the next
relay. The ﬁrst is Hop number (h), which is the number of times the data
has been relayed since a 3G node was last seen. The second metric Dˆ is the
possible maximum distance between the candidate Helper and a 3G node.
Dˆ = E × V +R× h (8)
Here R is radio range, E is the time that has elapsed since a 3G node
was last seen by one of the previous relay nodes, and this is equal to the
(current time − τ).
Both h and τ are embedded in the HELLO message, as shown in Table
I. Every node stores these information in its internal memory and update h
and τ every time when it overhears a HELLO message as follows: when node
Ni encounters node Nj , assuming the values of their h and τ are (hi, τi) and
9
shown that the arrival of contacts is a Poisson random process in the RWP
model. Assuming the sequence of the passed waypoints in the time interval
[0, ω] is s1, ..., si and δi is the duration of the interval between waypoint si
to the next waypoint si+1. The inter-contact time δi, where 1 ≤ i ≤ n − 1
then follows the exponential distribution with parameter λc, where λc is the
contact arrival rate. Here we assume all nodes have the same contact arrival
rate. The sum ωn= δ1+δ2+...+δn−1 is a random variable and has a gamma
distribution with parameters λc and n. We assume that the probability that a
Helper will relay the data for the Requester is Pr. Since the inter-contact time
between waypoints follows an exponential distribution with the parameter λc,
the inter-distance of the waypoints also follows an exponential distribution
with the parameter λd = λc/V [35]. A prior work [36] proved that the inter-
contact rate λc can be approximated by λc = 2 ·R ·E[V ∗] ·∫ L0 ∫ L0 f 2(x, y)dxdy,
where E[V ∗] is the average relative speed between two nodes, f (x, y) is the
p.d.f of the spatial node distribution, and L is the length of the grid area.
Thus, if we assume that nodes are uniformly distributed (i.e. f(x, y) = 1/L2),
the inter-contact rate can then be rewritten as
λc =
2 · R · E[V ∗] · ϑ
((κ− 1) · γ)2 (10)
where ϑ represents the number of combinations of picking two arbitrary nodes
from ρ nodes, i.e., ϑ = C(ρ, 2) = ρ(ρ− 1)/2. There are κ×κ intersections in
the grid topology, and we assume that there are ρ nodes, where ρ≤ κ2. Note
that R << (κ− 1)× γ, where γ is the grid length. The relative speed E [V *]
can be approximated as 4V
π
, where V is the speed of the node [37].
Accordingly, the probability of contact distance being smaller than the
radio range is Pd = P (d ≤ R) = 1 − e−λdR, where d is the contact distance
between the contact nodes. Given the relaying probability Pr, the probability
that the Requester can ﬁnd a relay node within the radio range is
Pd = P (d/Pr ≤ R) = P (d ≤ Pr ∗R) = 1− e−λdPrR. (11)
We deﬁne a successful transmission as when the data is transmitted from
the data generator to the 3G interface within the time limit ω. Note that
we ignore the transmission time from the 3G interface to the server and also
the transmission loss. When the data is transmitted from the Requester to
the 3G transmitter, the average number of passing nodes is 1/p3G including
the source node and the 3G transmitter. We can derive the average number
of hops as
E{η} = (1− Pd)
(
q
PdPr
+ φ
)
(12)
11
(a) The relationship between V and E(η).
(b) The relationship between V and Ps.
Figure 4: The eﬀect of speed on the average number of hops and the success
rate, P3G=0.1, Pr=0.1, ω=0.001 hr, ρ=15, R=0.1km.
(a) The relationship between R and E(η).
(b) The relationship between R and Ps.
Figure 5: The eﬀect of radio range on the average number of hops and the
success rate, P3G=0.1, Pr=0.1, ω=0.001 hr, ρ=15, V=40 km/h.
13
Figure 8: Comparison of diﬀerent Helper selection strategies.
MAC protocol, and 3G nodes and source nodes are randomly assigned in the
simulation. Each simulation runs for 2,000 seconds, and the maximum radio
transmission range is 250m. The enumeration rate is 0.3.
In the ﬁrst experiment, we use a 10 × 10 grid map for the road network
T , and the length of each grid is 400m. The roads have four lanes and
are bi-directional. As described in Section IV, in this work we consider the
use of three diﬀerent metrics (i.e. number of hops, distance and time) for
the Helper selection strategy. In our experiment, we compare these three
metrics with ﬁrst-come-ﬁrst-serve (FCFS) (which means that the Requester
will pick the ﬁrst Helper that responds to its request). In order to motivate
the participant to upload the data to the server as soon as possible, we deﬁne
the success rate (which is the amount of data uploaded to the server
the amount of data generated
) as a function of
the number of relays (i.e. i) and how long the data has been in the network
since it was generated (i.e. T ), as shown in Eq. 6. When λc is small, i will
become the dominant factor that determines if the data can be eventually
uploaded to the server. As a result, we ﬁnd that using the estimated number
of hops to a 3G node performs better than the other approaches, as shown
in Fig. 8, since it tries to minimize i. On the other hand, FCFS has the
worst performance, because it does not consider the geographical relationship
between the Helper and the 3G node. Finally, time-based and distance-based
approaches have similar performance, since the average speed for most of the
cars is not signiﬁcantly diﬀerent, as it is restricted by the speed limits, in
operation on the roads being used.
Next, given that it is diﬃcult to evaluate our proposed architecture in the
real world, we employ trace-driven simulations using a detailed GPS trace of
taxis in Shanghai [39]. Because the trace consists of several months of data
and it is impossible to use the entire trace for our trace-driven simulations,
we only use a portion in our simulation. We simulate the vehicle movement in
15
Figure 11: The eﬀect of radio range on the vehicle inter-contact time in
Shanghai city (3G penetration rate: 0.1).
Figure 12: The number of relays required for the data to reach a 3G node.
Figure 13: The amount of travel time in the network before the data reaches
a 3G node.
17
minimum data size of {x1, ..., xn}. The predicted shape parameter α∗ can be
computed using Eqs. 16 and 17.
temp =
n∑
i=1
ln
xi
xm
(16)
α∗ =
n− 1
temp
(17)
Sˆ can be estimated using xm and α
∗ as
Sˆ =
α∗ × xm
α∗ − 1 (18)
We assume that the Helper also overheard a series of hop counts, h0...., hn.
Using exponential smoothing, we can estimate Hˆ as follows s0 = h0, Hˆ =
sn+1 = β × hn + (1 − β)× sn. Finally, Tˆ can also be estimated in a similar
way.
8 Publication
8.1 Journal
(A) Kun-Chan Lan, Chien-Ming Chou, and Ching-Fang Yang, ”Eﬀects of
Preferred Routes and Destinations on the Performance of Vehicular Net-
work,” accepted by Journal of Information Science and Engineering, 2011.
8.2 Conference
(A) Kun-chan Lan, Chien-Ming Chou, and Han-Yi Wang, “Using Vehicular
Sensor Networks for Mobile Surveillance,” in the 2012 IEEE 76th Vehicular
Technology Conference (VTC2012-Fall), 3-6 September 2012.
(B) Kun-chan Lan, Chien-Ming Chou, and Han-Yi Wang, “An Incentive-
Based Framework for Vehicle-Based Mobile Sensing,” in The Second Inter-
national Workshop on Sensor Networks for Intelligence Gathering and Mon-
itoring (SNIGM 2012), 27-29 August 2012.
9 Conclusion and future work
In this work, we propose an incentive scheme for a vehicle-based mobile
surveillance system by adopting the concept of participatory sensing. We
19
Moving Camera,” in The Eighth International Workshop on Visual
Surveillance - VS2008. Marseille, France: Graeme Jones and Tieniu
Tan and Steve Maybank and Dimitrios Makris, 2008. [Online].
Available: http://hal.inria.fr/inria-00325634/en/
[7] B.-F. Wu, H.-Y. Peng, C.-J. Chen, and Y.-H. Chan, “An encrypted mo-
bile embedded surveillance system,” in Intelligent Vehicles Symposium,
2005. Proceedings. IEEE, June 2005, pp. 502 – 507.
[8] L. von Ahn, “Human computation,” in Design Automation Conference,
2009. DAC ’09. 46th ACM/IEEE, july 2009, pp. 418 –419.
[9] J. Burke, D. Estrin, M. Hansen, A. Parker, N. Ramanathan, S. Reddy,
and M. B. Srivastava, “Participatory sensing,” in In: Workshop on
World-Sensor-Web (WSW06): Mobile Device Centric Sensor Networks
and Applications, 2006, pp. 117–134.
[10] N. Maisonneuve, M. Stevens, M. E. Niessen, and L. Steels, “Noisetube:
Measuring and mapping noise pollution with mobile phones,” in Infor-
mation Technologies in Environmental Engineering, ser. Environmental
Science and Engineering. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2009, pp. 215–
228, 10.1007/978-3-540-88351-7-16.
[11] N. Ramanathan, T. Schoellhammer, E. Kohler, K. Whitehouse,
T. Harmon, and D. Estrin, “Suelo: human-assisted sensing for
exploratory soil monitoring studies,” in Proceedings of the 7th ACM
Conference on Embedded Networked Sensor Systems, ser. SenSys ’09.
New York, NY, USA: ACM, 2009, pp. 197–210. [Online]. Available:
http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1644038.1644058
[12] S. Gaonkar, J. Li, R. R. Choudhury, L. Cox, and A. Schmidt,
“Micro-blog: sharing and querying content through mobile phones and
social participation,” in Proceeding of the 6th international conference
on Mobile systems, applications, and services, ser. MobiSys ’08.
New York, NY, USA: ACM, 2008, pp. 174–186. [Online]. Available:
http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1378600.1378620
[13] S. B. Eisenman, E. Miluzzo, N. D. Lane, R. A. Peterson, G.-S.
Ahn, and A. T. Campbell, “The bikenet mobile sensing system for
cyclist experience mapping,” in Proceedings of the 5th international
conference on Embedded networked sensor systems, ser. SenSys ’07.
New York, NY, USA: ACM, 2007, pp. 87–101. [Online]. Available:
http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1322263.1322273
21
Ubicomp ’10. New York, NY, USA: ACM, 2010, pp. 33–36. [Online].
Available: http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1864349.1864355
[23] H. Zhu, X. Lin, R. Lu, Y. Fan, and X. Shen, “Smart: A secure multi-
layer credit-based incentive scheme for delay-tolerant networks,” Vehic-
ular Technology, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 58, no. 8, pp. 4628 –4639,
October 2009.
[24] L. Buttyan and J.-P. Hubaux, “Enforcing service availability in
mobile ad-hoc wans,” in Proceedings of the 1st ACM international
symposium on Mobile ad hoc networking & computing, ser. MobiHoc
’00. Piscataway, NJ, USA: IEEE Press, 2000, pp. 87–96. [Online].
Available: http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=514151.514164
[25] J. Crowcroft, R. Gibbens, F. Kelly, and S. O¨string, “Modelling
incentives for collaboration in mobile ad hoc networks,” Perform.
Eval., vol. 57, pp. 427–439, August 2004. [Online]. Available:
http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1032151.1032153
[26] R. Lu, X. Lin, H. Zhu, C. Zhang, P.-H. Ho, and X. Shen, “A novel
fair incentive protocol for mobile ad hoc networks,” in Wireless Com-
munications and Networking Conference, 2008. WCNC 2008. IEEE, 31
2008-april 3 2008, pp. 3237 –3242.
[27] N. K. Yeganeh and M. A. Sharaf, “A framework for data quality aware
query systems,” in Proceedings of the 16th international conference on
Database systems for advanced applications, ser. DASFAA’11. Berlin,
Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag, 2011, pp. 478–489. [Online]. Available:
http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1996686.1996749
[28] Wikipedia, “Exponential decay — Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia,”
2011. [Online]. Available: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exponential
decay
[29] C. Sarr, C. Chaudet, G. Chelius, and I. Lassous, “Bandwidth estima-
tion for ieee 802.11-based ad hoc networks,” Mobile Computing, IEEE
Transactions on, vol. 7, no. 10, pp. 1228 –1241, October 2008.
[30] V. Namboodiri and L. Gao, “Prediction-based routing for vehicular ad
hoc networks,” Vehicular Technology, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 56,
no. 4, pp. 2332 –2345, July 2007.
23
[43] B. Asrabadi, “Estimation in the pareto distribution,” Metrika,
vol. 37, pp. 199–205, 1990, 10.1007/BF02613522. [Online]. Available:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/BF02613522
25
                                 
摘 要。 
 
WCNC是世界上最大的無線網路國際會議之一，在這裡, 專業人士，
學者，以及來各政府機構代表互相做信息和思想的交換，及討論無線
通信和網絡技術的進步。 今年WCNC在法國巴黎舉行。我在本次會
議發表了三篇論文，包括 “Using Simple Harmonic Motion to Estimate 
Walking Distance for Waist-mounted PDR”, “The Effect of 802.11a on 
DSRC for ETC Communication” , “Improving TCP Performance over an 
On-board Multi-homed Network”。這些論文是我與以前畢業的學生的
共同合作。在會議期間我收到很多很有用的意見，並與來自世界各國
的無線專家學者有很多很有趣的對談。我也參加了所有的會議演講。
並且, 我也有從WCNC會議組織委員會成員的談話中得到他們如何
組織一個大的國際會議像WCNC這樣的心得。由於我的研究興趣之
一是在車輛網絡，我也已經與將要在今年在台北舉行的 2012年 ITST
的組織者討論了合作的可能性。 
 
WCNC is the world premier wireless event that brings together industry 
professionals, academics, and individuals from government agencies and 
other institutions to exchange information and ideas on the advancement 
of wireless communications and networking technology. The 2012 
Improving TCP Performance over an On-board 
Multi-homed Network 
are used at the same time. Some other comments I got from the 
presentation of  “Improving TCP Performance over an On-board 
Multi-homed Network” was that whether it is possible that HA will 
become a bottleneck in our proposed architecture. I think this question 
is valid. However, there are already existing techniques such as 
distributed HAs that can be used to solve such a problem. Another 
comment is how to accurate estimate the queuing delay in the HA is 
very challenging. I think this observation is also valid. However, in our 
paper, our goal is not to have a perfect estimation of network delay. 
Our focus is on using the computed delays to decide which link to use 
for scheduling the packet. As long as the level of inaccuracy is 
consistent over all the links, we can still find the ‘comparatively fastest’ 
link for sending the packet. During the conference lunch, I also talked 
some members of the conference organization committee, and find it’s 
a lot of overhead to organize a large conference like WCNC who has a 
lot of attendees. And choosing the conference venu is also quite critical 
to make the success of the conference. Good networking in the 
research community also plays an important role to ensure the 
appropriate reviewers can be found. This year, the organizer of ITST 
2012 has a booth in WCNC. Given that my research interest in 
vehicular networking which is also one of the focus topics of ITST, I 
also had some discussion with the guys in their booth. I’ve previously 
organized several vehicular network workshops. After the discussion, 
both of us felt that we should try to help each other, in the way we can 
promote each other’s conference, and to integrate people who are 
doing vehicular networking in Taiwan to create a strong community 
among ourselves. This will give us strength and reputation  when later 
we want to organize a large conference like WCNC and attract more 
people to join our community. The conference also organized a social 
program to show people around Paris. However, since my budget is 
quite limited, I can not afford to join this social program. I also 
attended all the other presentation through the three days there. Most of 
the talks are interesting, some are little boring. One interesting thing 
that I observe is that the number of attendees seemed to be much less 
than that of the first day. I guess that most people have returned home 
then. 
 



Using Simple Harmonic Motion to Estimate Walking 
Distance for Waist-mounted PDR 
 
Kun-Chan Lan 
Department of CSIE 
 National Cheng Kung University 
Tainan, Taiwan (R.O.C.)  
klan@csie.ncku.edu.tw 
Wen-Yuah Shih 
Department of CSIE 
 National Cheng Kung University 
Tainan, Taiwan (R.O.C.)  
P76984128@mail.ncku.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract— A huge body of work utilized signal strength of short 
range signal (such as WiFi, Bluetooth, ultra sound or Infrared) to 
build a radio map for indoor localization, by deploying a great 
number of beacon nodes in the building. The drawback of such 
an infrastructure-based approach is that the deployment and 
calibration of the system is costly and labor-intensive. To 
overcome that, some prior studies proposed the use of Pedestrian 
Dead Reckoning (PDR) for indoor localization. The PDR system 
does not require to build a beacon-based infrastructure, in which 
a small number of sensors are put on the pedestrian. These 
sensors (such as G-sensor and Gyro) are used to estimate the 
distance and direction that the user traveled. The PDR approach 
can be generally categorized into two types: foot-mounted and 
waist-mounted. In general, the foot-mounted system can get 
accurate step length, but perform poorly in estimated heading 
direction. On the other hand, the waist-mounted system can 
estimate direction with high accuracy, but is hard to measure the 
step length. In this work, we proposed a waist-mounted based 
PDR using one 3-axis accelerometer and one gyroscope sensor. 
We utilize vertical acceleration to implement double integral for 
measuring the user’s instant height change and use some physical 
features of vertical acceleration during the walking to calibrate 
the measurement. Then based on the Pythagoras' Theorem, we 
can estimate each step length based on the user’s height change 
during his/her walking.  Our experiment results show that the 
accuracy is about 98.26% in estimating the user’s walking 
distance. 
I. INTRODUCTION  
Indoor location sensing systems have become very popular 
in recent years. There are many real-world applications 
depending on such a system. For example, one can consider the 
location detection of medical personnel in a hospital, location 
detection of firemen in a building on fire, monitoring of 
parolees, and tracking of shopper mobility in a mall [1]. There 
were a large body of prior work in the area of indoor 
localization, many of them involving the use of signal strength 
indicator (RSSI) [2] and a large number of preinstalled devices, 
called beacon nodes, which periodically emit signals. By 
listening [3] and monitoring signal change [4], the user’s 
location can be estimated through triangulation. While the idea 
of these existing systems is attractive, they require intensive 
pre-deployment efforts for every new building.  In addition, 
these approaches also suffer interference and multi-path 
problems [5]. 
On the other hand, the personal dead reckoning or 
pedestrian dead reckoning (PDR) system is a self-contained 
technique for indoor localization. It is used to measure the 
trajectory of walker without the need to pre-install beacon 
nodes in the building. In other words, this technique only 
requires a couple of sensors to be put on the user,  so that it can 
be used in any building without pre-installing beacon nodes or 
pre-building RF maps/propagation models based on surveys of 
the environment.  Most of the PDR systems use inertial sensors 
(accelerometer, gyroscope, and digital compass) to measure 
step length and heading direction. Generally, the PDR system 
that uses the inertial sensors can be classified into two 
categories, depending on the place where the sensors are placed.  
For the first type, the sensors are mounted on foot. The foot-
mounted method uses double integral to estimate distance and 
use gyroscope or compass to measure the heading direction. 
The second is waist-mounted, which usually detects the step 
event to calculate total number of steps; and then multiplies it 
by a constant step length which is set based on the pedestrian’s 
characteristic (weight, height, and age) to estimate the moving 
distance. Some waist-mounted methods also use linear 
combination or linear regression to find the relationship 
between the acceleration, walking speed, and step length. 
The PDR system has a well-know problem, called sensor 
drift. Due to the constraints of hardware, the inertial sensors 
will constantly have some small amount of errors when 
estimating the distance. In addition, the noise signal will further 
exacerbate this problem. When one use the accelerometer 
sensor to do double integral in estimating the distance, these 
errors will be accumulated. Therefore, one needs a mechanism 
to calibrate such errors.  In foot-mounted methods, a method, 
called zero velocity update (ZUPT), is used to fix this problem, 
which is based on the characteristic of how people walk. When 
a person walks, one foot will stay on the ground first until the 
other one touches the ground. At that moment, the static one 
(i.e. the one on the ground) will have zero velocity in the 
horizontal direction. The system can use this feature to reset the 
calculation of velocity. However, the waist-mounted methods 
have no such a feature to be utilized. In other words, it will be 
difficult to define a moment when the sensor is static in the 
horizontal direction when one is walking. Therefore, the 
accuracy of a naïve waist-mounted method is typically worse 
than a foot-mounted method.  On the other hand, although the 
III. METHODOLOGY 
In this section, we first describe the concept of simple 
harmonic motion (SHM). We then discuss some pre-filtering 
mechanism to remove the effect of gravity on the sensor 
readings. Next, we describe our system architecture and 
algorithms in details. Finally, we discuss how we remove noise 
signal during walking using a low pass filter. 
A. The concept of simple harmonic motion (SHM) 
Simple harmonic motion (SHM) [18] has been commonly 
used to model various motions, such as the oscillation of a 
spring. When an object is in simple harmonic motion, the 
displacement of object is proportional to the external force 
placed on the object and the force always points to the position 
of equilibrium. In other words, when the object is displaced 
from its equilibrium position, it experiences a net restoring 
force toward its equilibrium position. One characteristic of 
SHM is that when an object is at its largest displacement from 
the equilibrium position, the object’s speed will become zero, 
and at the same time, the object will reach its maximum 
acceleration rate. 
For instance, let’s put a pen on a spring and make the 
spring oscillate in vertical way. Then we put a long ribbon 
paper on the table and let the pen draw on it to show the 
trajectory of spring vibration. At the same time, we pull this 
paper in the horizontal direction at a stable speed. The 
trajectory shown on the paper will look like a sinusoidal wave 
and the vertical velocity of the highest and the lowest points of 
the spring will be zero. Inspired by this, if we mount a sensor 
on the waist of a pedestrian during his walking [19], the 
trajectory of sensor can be approximated by a sinusoidal wave. 
In addition, given that the velocity of the highest and lowest 
points of the sensor will be zero, we can utilize these 
characteristics to detect when the user starts a new step. Finally, 
once we find the points with zero velocity in the vertical way, 
we can use these to do the double integral for calculating the 
height change of the user’s waist.  The height change can then 
be used to estimate step distance based on Pythagoras' 
Theorem. 
B. Remove the effect of the gravity 
During the walking, a person’s body will move up and 
down, as shown in Fig. 4. In other words, if we assume the 
length of leg is L, the waist line will move up-and-down 
between L and (L-h) from the ground, where h is the change of 
the height of the waist. Considering the triangle shown in Fig. 4, 
formed by two feet of a person and his step length D.  Given 
that L is known, using Pythagoras' Theorem, we can estimate D 
if we know the height of this triangle, i.e. (L-h). To obtain (L-h), 
we need to first calculate h which is the height change of the 
waist during the walking. Therefore, if we mount an 
accelerometer on the user’s waist, the readings of the 
accelerometer can be used to estimate the height change h 
which can then be used to calculate the step length D based on 
Pythagoras' Theorem. 
However, there is one problem with this approach. The 
readings from the accelerometer will be affected by the gravity. 
The accelerometer is typically built on a silicon wafer in circuit 
to detect the acceleration. There is a poly-silicon spring on the 
wafer surface to provide a force against the external force. Any 
external force could cause the deflection of the spring. 
According to different levels and direction of the deflection, 
the values of resistance or capacitor in the circuit will change 
proportionally, and then the device will output the 
corresponding voltages which are the readings that we can 
measure from the sensor. However, even in the static state, the 
sensor can still detect the acceleration due to that the gravity 
constantly gives the wafer a downward force which  is always 
1g on earth, except when the axis (we use a three-axis 
accelerometer) from which we collect the reading is 
perpendicular the to gravity force. Therefore, to obtain the 
vertical acceleration of the waist during the walking for 
estimating height change, we need to first remove the effect of 
the gravity from the sensor readings. 
When the sensor is moving, there might be an angle 
between the direction of measured axis and the gravity.  This 
angle can be from 0° to 180°. For the sake of discussion, we 
consider two cases: when the axis is parallel to the gravity 
force and when it is not. 
1) If parallel 
This means that the angle between the measured axis and 
the direction of gravity is 0° or 180°, as shown in Fig. 1. In this 
case, we can estimate the vertical acceleration caused by the 
up-and-down movement of the waist during the walking based 
θ 
Gravity        
(-9.8m/s2) 
ExternalForce 
ExternalForce × cosθ 
Gravity × cosθ 
Figure 2.2. Force Diagram. 
Gravity = 9.8 m/s2 
Reading axis 
ExternalForce 
Figure  2.1. Gravity Elimination in different  
Gravity = -9.8 m/s2 
External force 
= α m/s2 
Measured axis: SensorReading = α + Gravity 
Figure  1.   Gravity Elimination. 
velocity by doing integral of vertical acceleration. In (4), we 
use absolute value of velocity to do other integral and consider 
the height change due to ascending and descending of the body 
movement. The obtained result is then divided by 2 to get an 
average of height change, here we assume that the height 
change in the directions of ascending and descending are 
approximately the same. Finally, we use the obtained height 
change to estimate stride length based on the Pythagoras' 
Theorem.  As shown in Fig. 4, if we assuming that the known 
leg length of is L and the height changing is h, we can use the 
(5) to calculate the step distance D. 
)4(2/)(
)3(
1
1
dtVh
dtaV
n
n
n
nn
∫
∫
=
=
 
)5()(2 22 hLLD −−×=
 
In our system, we consider each step can be divided into 
two parts, from stance to stride and then from stride back to 
stance. So if we consider a user move from point A to point B, 
then the first step and the last step are actually only half a step, 
because the first step is only stride-stance and the last step is 
only stance-stride. Therefore, we consider the first step and the 
last step as the special cases. If the system detects that the user 
is currently in his first or last step, the height change will not be 
divided by two. In addition, there is only one point where the 
velocity needs to be reset. The initial velocity of first step is 
already zero and the last step does not need to reset the velocity 
when the body is in the stance state. 
Except the above methods, during pedestrian walking, there 
are not only regular walking events, but also many unexpected 
and unpredictable vibrations to interfere the sensor value. Thus, 
we depend on low pass filter to get rid of these noises, like [23]. 
Finally, we can combine the distance and the orientation 
information (obtained from gyroscope) using (6) to calculate 
the user’s coordinate and trajectory in a 2D space.  
IV. EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS  
In this section, we discuss the results of our experiments for 
the proposed method. We performed two experiments. For the 
first experiment, the user walked in a straight line.  We 
performed two set of tests. One is less than 10 meter and the 
other is longer than 10 meter. In the second experiment, we 
combine the orientation information (from gyro) to estimate the 
location of the user in a 2-D space. 
A. Hardware 
The sensor platform we used is Taroko which is a 
modification version of TelosB mote [11] which is designed 
originally by UC Berkley. Taroko is a programmable, low-
power wireless sensor platform. The microcontroller unit of 
Taroko is TI MSP430 F1611 with 16 bit RISC [12]. MSP430 
has 48K bytes flash memory and 10K bytes RAM that supports 
the serial communications such as UART, I2C, SPI, and 
Digital I/O. Beside, Taroko is equipped with the CC2420 RF 
transceiver [13] which is a low cost device for wireless 
communication in 2.4GHz based on IEEE 802.15.4 [14]. The 
maximum radio distance is around 100m. It also supports the 
USB interface using FTDI chip [15]. Taroko can use the USB 
interface to connect to a computer for powering, program 
upload and data collection. Taroko can accommodate different 
sensor components, e.g., temperature, humidity, infrared, 
accelerometer, gyroscope, and magnetic. In this work, we use 
an extended board to combine the accelerometer (ADXL330 
[16]) and gyroscope (IDG500 [17]). The ADXL330 is a small, 
low power, 3-axis accelerometer with signal conditioned 
voltage outputs, all on a single monolithic IC. It can measure 
acceleration with a minimum full-scale range of ±3g. The IDG-
500 is an angular rate sensor and its full scale range is ±500°/s. 
It uses the MEMS technology with vertically driven, vibrating 
masses to make a functionally complete, low-cost angular rate 
sensor. All required electronics are integrated onto a single 
chip with the sensor. Our PDR algorithm is implemented on 
the sensor to reduce the chance of packet loss when sending 
sensor info back to a computer for remote processing. 
B. Straight distance measurement 
In this experiment, we performed two set of tests. One is in 
the room (about 6~8m) and the other is at the corridor of 
building (10~15m). The former is repeated for 20 times and the 
latter is repeated for 5 times. To obtain the ground truth, we 
used a laser distance meter to measure the distance. During 
each trial, the user put the sensor on his waist and walked in 
different speeds. The estimated distance is based on the results 
computed by the sensor, and the ground truth is obtained from 
the laser distance meter. Our results show that the average of 
accuracy is about 98.26% and the standard deviation is 1.09%. 
The average accuracy for the longer-distance case is similar to 
that of the short-distance case. The average of accuracy is 
98.25% and the standard deviation is 1.29%. We also compare 
our results with the existing foot-mounted methods. Our 
accuracy is close to the best results from the foot-mounted 
method [8] (about more than 98%) and better than other waist-
mounted method [10] (about 96%), as shown in TABLE I. 
Note that the foot-mounted method is generally not good for 
estimating the direction of heading, as discussed previously. 
C. Coordinate test with ground truth 
In this experiment, we combine the direction information 
from gyro to calculate the 2-D coordinate using (6). 
          )6(
1
1



×+=
×+=
−
−
θ
θ
SinDisYY
CosDisXX
nn
nn
 
Where Xn and Yn are the nth coordinate, Dis is the estimated 
distance, and θ is the angle by sensor detected. We multiply the 
Dis  with Cos (θ) and Sin (θ) to calculate how far the user has 
moved in the direction of X-axis and Y-axis, which is then add 
to the last coordinate to estimate the current position. 
The actual walking distance is 10.75m, and the estimated 
distance based on our method is about 10.80m. Note that 
although the effect of gyro drift is not significant in this 
experiment, it is an important issue to consider for indoor 
localization. However, in this paper, we only focus on 
calibrating the distance drift and leave the calibration of gyro 
measurements as the future work. 
The Effect of 802.11a on DSRC for ETC
Communication
Kun-chan Lan, Chien-Ming Chou, and Da-Jhong Jin
National Cheng Kung University
Tainan, Taiwan
Email: klan@csie.ncku.edu.tw, {jensen0915, dajoncsie}@gmail.com
Abstract—There are increasing interest recently in using
802.11p for ETC (Electronic Toll Collection) communication.
However, there are two potential problems for using 802.11p for
mission-critical applications like ETC. First, a 802.11p wireless
network is prone to fading, shadowing, and interferences, which
might result in packet losses. But the WSMP protocol in 802.11p
standard does not provide any reliability mechanism. Second,
since the frequency bands used by 802.11a and 802.11p are
relatively close, it is possible that any 802.11a-based devices
could potentially interfere the 802.11p traffic and disrupt the
service. We previously proposed a simple session-layer protocol
to improve the reliability of WSMP for ETC communication.
In this work, we focus on investigating the effect of on-board
802.11a devices on ETC communication. We first demonstrate
the possibility of that 802.11a could potentially interfere 802.11p
traffic through theory and real-world experiments. Then, with
extensive simulations, we discuss how on-board 802.11a devices
could degrade ETC services in different scenarios.
I. INTRODUCTION
Since the first electronic-toll-collection (ETC) systems ap-
peared around the early 1990s, the number of ETC systems
in the world has grown rapidly worldwide, and there are
now more than 80 important systems in operation in more
than 25 countries [1]. Recently, several DSRC-based ETC
systems have has been proposed to improve the precision
of the Multi-Lane Free Flow (MLFF) method [2], [3] and
optimum configuration [4]. The objective of MLFF ETC is
to minimize congestion at toll plazas, reduce environmental
pollution and improve road safety.
However, there are two potential issues that can hinder
the use of 802.11p for mission-critical ITS applications like
ETC. First, it is well-known that 802.11p wireless network is
prone to fading, shadowing and interferences [5], [6], which
might result in high packet loss. In 802.11p standard, the
WSMP protocol is used for the communication between on
board unit (OBU) and roadside unit (RSU), but there is no
reliability mechanism embedded in the WSMP protocol. To
solve this problem, we previously proposed a simple session-
layer protocol to improve the reliability of 802.11p for ETC
communication [7]. Second, portable 3G WiFi routers [8], [9]
have become increasingly popular these days, which allow
the users to connect their on-board WiFi-based devices to
the Internet. Given that the frequency bands of 802.11a and
802.11p are relatively close, the out-of-band energy of OFDM
signal from 802.11a could potentially affect nearby 802.11p
traffic.
In this work, we set out to understand the possibility
of when on-board 802.11a devices could degrade the per-
formance of 802.11p-based ETC services. Our contributions
are twofold. First, we show, through theory and real-world
experiments, when 802.11a could affect the performance of
802.11p communication (Section III). Second, using extensive
simulations, we discuss the effect of on-board 802.11a devices
on ETC communication in three different scenarios (Section
IV). As far as we know, our work is the first that shows the
potential effect of 802.11a on 802.11p. Note that, although
802.11a standard suggests the use of a transmit mask to limit
its power leakage into the side bands [10], [11], we found that
many vendors do not implement this feature in their hardware
devices.
II. RELATED WORK
A. 802.11p standard and DSRC
To combat road fatalities, the U.S. Federal Communica-
tion Commission (FCC) has allocated a 75MHz spectrum
at 5.9GHz for vehicle-to-vehicle (V-to-V) and vehicle-to-
infrastructure (V-to-I) communications. The proposed vehic-
ular communication technology, known as the Dedicated
Short Range Communication (DSRC), has been standardized
by the IEEE [12], [13], and is known as 802.11p. Many
major car manufacturers have responded positively and are
actively working together to develop practical application of
this promising technology [14], [15]. Although the primary
purpose of 802.11p is to enable communication-based au-
tomotive safety applications, such as cooperative collision
warning (CCW), this new standard also facilitates for a range
of non-safety applications, from electronic toll collection to
multimedia downloading.
B. Microwave-based ETC
As far as we know, all the current operating MLFF systems
are based on microwave which can handle cars from several
lanes and its radio range and transmission throughput are better
than other technologies such as infrared. Table I shows some
microwave-based ETC systems around the world.
For microwave-based ETC systems, the most commonly
used technology is RFID, including FasTrak [16], I-Pass [17],
Pikepass [18], E-ZPass [19], SunPass [20], TollTag [21],
CityLink [22], and so on. The RFID tags are usually mounted
on the inside of vehicle windshield and read remotely as
Fig. 2. Scenario of field test.
of 802.11p will be 1.11536549 × 10−8 Watt. On the other
hand, for a 29 dBm high-power WiFi card [36], it can leak as
much as 3.76097645×10−7 Watt into 802.11p band. Now let’s
consider the case when a RSU sends some 802.11p traffic to
an OBU in the car. If we assume that radio propagation follows
the Friis free space model, we can calculate the receiver power
at the OBU side using the following formula
Pr =
Pt ·Gt ·Gr · λ2
(4 · π · d)2 · L (4)
where Pt is the transmission power of the sender, Gt
and Gr are transmitting and receiving antenna gain, d is
sender-receiver distance and L is radio circuit system loss.
If we assume Gt = Gr = 1 and the transmission power
of RSU is 20 dBm, the received power of OBU will be
around 1.057 × 10−9 Watt when the distance between RUS
and OBU is 25 meters. Considering a simple scenario when
a car communicates with a 802.11p-based RSU and, at the
same time, the driver connects his laptop through a portable
3G WiFi router to Internet, the power leaks into the 802.11p
band from the laptop is almost 10 times of the received power
at the OBU. This could significantly reduce the effective signal
to interference and noise ratio (SINR) of 802.11p and result
in reception errors and packet loss.
To verify the interference of 802.11a in 802.11p, we perform
a simple field test, as shown in Fig. 2. We used IWCU
802.11p WAVE BOX made by Industrial Technology Research
Institute (ITRI) [37] to implement the OBU and RSU. In our
experiments, we put a 802.11a-based access point and a laptop
near (around 1m) the OBU. When the OBU is communicating
with the RSU over 802.11p, the laptop periodically sends a
ping packet to the AP every 5ms. We measured the packet
loss rate of 802.11p traffic when separating the OBU and RSU
with different distances (25, 50, 75, 100 meters). As shown in
Fig. 3, the loss rate is generally higher when the 802.11a traffic
is turned on. The effect of 802.11a on 802.11p becomes more
significant when the distance between the OBU and RSU is
larger (and hence a lower received power for 802.11p signal).
As shown in Fig. 4, when the 802.11p device employs a high
date rate (12Mbps), the packet loss rate can increase up to 9%
when an 802.11a AP is in the proximity of the 802.11p-based
OBU.
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
0.4
0.45
0.5
25m 50m 75m 100m
Distance
E
rr
or
 r
at
e
OFF
ON
Fig. 3. Error rate of 802.11p communication.
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.10
0.12
0.14
0.16
0.18
0.20
3 6 9 12
Er
ro
r r
at
e
Data rate (Mbps)
OFF
ON
Fig. 4. Comparison the interference of 802.11a in 802.11p
IV. THE EFFECT OF 802.11A ON 802.11P-BASED ETC
COMMUNICATION
We next discuss the effect of on-board 802.11a devices on
802.11p-based ETC communication. Here we assume a simple
session layer protocol is used to improve the reliability of
802.11p, as described in our prior work [7]. In this protocol,
we use a three-way handshake to create a session. First, RSU
periodically broadcasts <INVITE> and its own Rid. When
any OBU hears <INVITE>, they can reply an <ACCEPT>
with its Vid (vehicle ID). Once RSU hears <ACCEPT>, it
will create a corresponding state for [Vid, sno], where sno is
session number and broadcast <SESSION> message to the air
so that the OBU knows a session is created. After the session
is created, RSU and OBU can then start sending <DATA> to
each other and wait for an <ACK> back from the other side.
Here <ACK> and <DATA> can be piggybacked. RSU can
send a message <SUSPEND> to OBU to temporarily suspend
the session if RSU without receiving ACK from the OBU.
In this protocol, we also use the measured signal strength
level (RSSI) to estimate the distance between OBU and RSU,
assuming the distance between them decreases as the measured
RSSI value increases. RSU can query the RSSI level of the
link by broadcasting an <RSSI> message. When OBU hears
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
-3 0 12 24 36 42 48 58 68 78
Transmit power of 11p device (dBm)
S
uc
ce
ss
 r
at
e
Normal
Jam
Fig. 8. Success rate when varying the transmission power of 802.11p sender
(i.e., RSU).
we further show that such an effect cannot be eliminated
by simply increasing the transmission power of the 802.11p
sender for ETC communication, and can possibly hinder the
real-world deployment of DSRC-based applications (e.g., the
network performance degrades by 802.11a-based on-board
devices when bus acts mobile gateway for one particular ITS
application).
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This work was supported by the National Science Council,
Taiwan, R.O.C. under Grant NSC 100-2219-E-006-005 and by
the Ministry of Education, Taiwan, R.O.C. under the NCKU
Project of Promoting Academic Excellence & Developing
World Class Research Centers.
REFERENCES
[1] W.-Y. Shieh, C.-C. Hsu, S.-L. Tung, P.-W. Lu, T.-H. Wang, and S.-
L. Chang, “Design of infrared electronic-toll-collection systems with
extended communication areas and performance of data transmission,”
IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation systems, vol. 12, no. 1,
pp. 25–35, 2010.
[2] W. Y. Shieh, W. H. Lee, S. L. Tung, and C. D. Ho, “A novel archi-
tecture for multilane free-flow electronic-toll-collection systems in the
millimeter-wave range,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation
Systems, vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 294–301, Sep 2003.
[3] W.-H. Lee, B.-S. Jen, S.-S. Tseng, and C.-H. Wang, “Electronic toll
collection based on vehicle-positioning system techniques,” in Proc.
IEEE ICNSC, vol. 1, 2004, pp. 350–353.
[4] W. Shieh, W. Lee, S. Tung, B. Jeng, and C. Liu, “Analysis of the
optimum configuration of roadside units and onboard units in dedicated
short-range communication systems,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent
Transportation Systems, vol. 7, no. 4, pp. 565–571, 2006.
[5] T. Luo, Z. Wen, J. Li, and H.-H. Chen, “Saturation throughput analysis
of wave networks in doppler spread scenarios,” IET on Communications,
vol. 4, no. 7, pp. 817–825, 2010.
[6] C. Mecklenbrauker, A. Molisch, J. Karedal, F. Tufvesson, A. Paier,
L. Bernado, T. Zemen, O. Klemp, and N. Czink, “Vehicular channel
characterization and its implications for wireless system design and
performance,” Proceedings of the IEEE, vol. 99, no. 7, pp. 1189–1212,
july 2011.
[7] M.-W. Li, T. hsun Wu, W.-Y. Lin, K. chan Lan, C.-M. Chou, and C.-
H. Hsu, “On the feasibility of using 802.11p for communication of
electronic toll collection systems,” in Proc. NBiS-2011, Sep 2011.
[8] L. Veltri, S. Salsano, and G. Martiniello, “Wireless LAN-3g integration:
Unified mechanisms for secure authentication based on SIP,” in Proc.
IEEE ICC, vol. 5, June 2006, pp. 2219–2224.
[9] H. Ng, M. Sim, C. Tan, and C. Wong, “Wireless technologies for
telemedicine,” BT Technology Journal, vol. 24, pp. 130–137, 2006.
[10] “Wireless lan medium access control (mac) and physical layer (phy)
specifications,” IEEE 802.11 standard, including 802.11a,b,g and h
ammendments, pp. 1–721, 2005.
[11] V. Angelakis, S. Papadakis, V. Siris, and A. Traganitis, “Adjacent
channel interference in 802.11a: Modeling and testbed validation,” in
Proc. IEEE Radio and Wireless Symposium, Jan 2008.
[12] Family of Standards for Wireless Access in Vehicular Environments
WAVE, IEEE 1609.
[13] Standard Specification for Telecommunications and Information Ex-
change Between Roadside and Vehicle Systems - 5 GHz Band Dedicated
Short Range Communications (DSRC) Medium Access Control (MAC)
and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications, ASTM E2213-03, 2003.
[14] F. Bai, T. ElBatt, G. Holland, H. Krishnan, and V. Sadekar, “Towards
characterizing and classifying communication-based automotive appli-
cations from a wireless networking perspective,” in In Proceedings of
IEEE Workshop on Automotive Networking and Applications (AutoNet),
2006.
[15] D. Jiang, V. Taliwal, A. Meier, W. Holfelder, and R. Herrtwich, “Design
of 5.9 ghz DSRC-based vehicular safety communication,” IEEE Wireless
Communications, vol. 13, no. 5, pp. 36–43, 2006.
[16] FasTrak website. [Online]. Available: http://wirelesslab.sjtu.edu.cn
[17] I-Pass website. [Online]. Available: http://www.illinoistollway.com/
portal/page? pageid=133,1392734& dad=portal& schema=PORTAL
[18] Pikepass website. [Online]. Available: https://www.pikepass.com/
[19] E-ZPass website. [Online]. Available: http://www.ezpass.com/
[20] SunPass website. [Online]. Available: https://www.sunpass.com/index
[21] TollTag website. [Online]. Available: http://www.tolltag.ie/pmui/ui/
homett6.htm
[22] CityLink website. [Online]. Available: http://www.citylink.com.au/
[23] H. Hashimoto, H. Ohno, M. Konishi, K. Morishita, and K. Sugimoto,
“Multi-lane electronic road pricing system in singapore,” Mitsubishi Juko
Giho, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd., vol. 36, no. 1, pp. 36–45, 1999.
[24] DN-Systems: BBC Reports on Cloning of the new e-passport. [Online].
Available: http://www.dn-systems.com/company/
[25] N. Lawson, “Highway to hell: Hacking toll systems, presentation at
blackhat, 2008.” [Online]. Available: http://rdist.root.org/2008/08/07/
fastrak-talk-summary-and-slides/
[26] LKW-MAUT Electronic Toll Collection System for Heavy
Goods Vehicles, Germany. [Online]. Available: http://www.
roadtraffic-technology.com/projects/lkw-maut/
[27] Slovakia’s GPS Tolling Uses Siemens’ Technology. [Online]. Available:
http://www.roadtraffic-technology.com/news/news75089.html
[28] V. Angelakis, S. Papadakis, V. Siris, and A. Traganitis, “Adjacent
channel interference in 802.11a is harmful: Testbed validation of a
simple quantification model,” IEEE Communications Magazine, vol. 49,
no. 3, pp. 160–166, march 2011.
[29] A. D. S. Jayalath and C. Tellambura, “Reducing the out-of-band radia-
tion of ofdm using an extended guard interval,” in Proc. VTC, 2001.
[30] L. Yu, B. Rao, L. Milstein, and J. Proakis, “Reducing out-of-band
radiation of ofdm-based cognitive radios,” in Proc. SPAWC, 2010.
[31] L. Wang and Y. Wang, “Mimo-ofdm peak-to-average power ratio re-
duction by two-dimensional permutation,” Electronics Letters, vol. 43,
no. 10, pp. 579–580, 2007.
[32] B. Krongold and D. Jones, “Par reduction in ofdm via active constella-
tion extension,” in Proc. ICASSP, vol. 4, April 2003.
[33] R. Bauml, R. Fischer, and J. Huber, “Reducing the peak-to-average
power ratio of multicarrier modulation by selected mapping,” Electronics
Letters, vol. 32, no. 22, pp. 2056–2057, oct 1996.
[34] S. Weinstein and P. Ebert, “Data transmission by frequency-division
multiplexing using the discrete fourier transform,” IEEE Transactions
on Communication Technology, vol. 19, no. 5, pp. 628–634, Oct 1971.
[35] K. Panta and J. Armstrong, “Spectral analysis of ofdm signals and its
improvement by polynomial cancellation coding,” IEEE Transactions on
Consumer Electronics, vol. 49, no. 4, pp. 939–943, Nov 2003.
[36] SmallNetBuilder. [Online]. Available: http:
//www.smallnetbuilder.com/wireless/wireless-reviews/
30889-buffalo-nfiniti-wireless-n-high-power-router-a-access-point-reviewed?
start=1
[37] Industrial Technology Research Institute, ITRI. [Online]. Available:
http://www.itri.org.tw/eng/
they identified some interface selection problems and focused 
on the connection-level scheduling. A prior work [19] 
discussed several traffic stripping schemes and implemented a 
multi-homing agent that supports failover and intelligent load 
balancing using connection stripping. This process strips 
connections across multiple links, and all data belonging to the 
same connection would be sent to the same interface for the 
duration of that connection. Using connection stripping, a 
single connection can only utilize one link’s bandwidth at a 
time, even when multiple links are available. In this work, 
ETOM is based on packet stripping, which means that the 
traffic of a single connection can be transferred through 
multiple links concurrently in a multi-homed NEMO 
architecture. Note that although we exploit the same 
architecture as in NEMO, the focus of our work is on 
improving the performance of TCP traffic in such an 
environment while the aim of NEMO protocol is to manage the 
mobility issues of an on-board network.  
In ETOM, the HA has a reordering buffer whose function is 
similar to that in EFL-MP (Ethernet with Flow Label for 
Multi-Path) [20]. EFL-MP exploits the reordering buffer to 
eliminate unnecessary retransmissions due to out-of-order 
packets when sending TCP traffic over the Ethernet. In addition 
to the use of a reordering buffer, ETOM also employs another 
two techniques, namely, split connections and scheduled 
window-based transmission control, to further improve the 
performance of TCP in a multi-homed environment.  
Several Split TCP [21]-[23] mechanisms have been 
proposed to improve the performance of TCP over error-prone 
wireless links. In Split TCP, the TCP connection is split into a 
wired part and a wireless part, with different transmission 
control schemes conducted in different parts. In this work, we 
adopt the idea of split connection for the multi-homed 
environment, and integrate it into our scheduled window-based 
control scheme. 
Several transport-layer protocols have been proposed to 
aggregate end-to-end traffic over multiple paths.  Their 
common drawback is that they are not compatible with regular 
TCP and require the modification of end hosts.  pTCP [10] 
consists of two components: Stripper connection Manager (SM) 
and TCP-virtual.  SM is used to strip the raw data traffic of a 
connection into multiple paths at the end point, while 
TCP-virtual handles per-path functionalities, and processes 
isolated transmission control for multiple micro-flows. 
Dhananjay S. Phatak et al [24] proposed a mechanism to 
aggregate the bandwidth of multiple IP paths through multiple 
interfaces using IP-in-IP tunneling. A packet sending algorithm 
was introduced to fully utilize the available network 
resources. However, their work required changes of the 
network stack at the end hosts, which could be impractical for 
real-world deployment.  . Concurrent Multi-path Transfer 
SCTP (CMT-SCTP) [12] proposed the CMT algorithm to 
achieve efficient parallel transfer of SCTP. The CMT algorithm 
consists of the following parts: Preventing unnecessary fast 
retransmissions, avoiding reductions in congestion window 
(cwnd) updates, and curbing increases in ACK Traffic. 
Multi-path TCP [25] has been proposed as a routing protocol to 
dynamically route TCP traffic through multiple paths, using 
assistance from the router to retrieve the information needed to 
decide which path to route the traffic through.  A data 
distribution scheme called Arrival-Time matching 
Load-Balancing (ATLB) [26] was proposed for multi-path 
TCP communication, with the aim of solving the problem of 
out-of-order delivery in a multi-path environment. It calculates 
the data arrival time for each path and then schedules the 
packets in order to achieve in-order data delivery at the receiver. 
Unlike ETOM, Multi-path TCP and ATLB were not designed 
with a multi-homed environment in mind, and do not aim to use 
multiple links simultaneously to improve TCP performance.  
III. PERFORMANCE ISSUE
In this section, we discuss some potential issues that could 
affect the performance of TCP traffic in a multi-homed 
architecture. 
A. Spurious Retransmission and Unnecessary Congestion 
Window Reduction 
In a multi-homed environment, a connection is prone to have 
out-of-order packets which result in duplicate 
Acknowledgements (ACK) in TCP, which causes unnecessary 
drops in the sending rate at the source node and low utilization 
of multiple links [11].  These out-of-order packets introduce 
spurious retransmissions and unnecessary congestion window 
(cwnd) reductions, which could seriously degrade the 
performance of TCP traffic. 
B. Inappropriate Congestion Window Update 
Regular TCP does not maintain independent variables for 
each link, such as the cwnd value, measured round-trip time 
(RTT) and so on. The TCP source only maintains a single cwnd 
value for a connection, even when this connection is stripped 
over multiple links. A single cwnd value can not properly 
reflect different conditions of multiple links. 
C. Queuing Delay in the Reordering Buffer 
Different wireless access technologies, such as 3.5G, 
WiMax and so on, could have different bandwidths and 
transmission delays. Sending TCP traffic in a multi-homed 
environment with heterogeneous links could potentially   result 
in out-of-order packets and degrade the performance of TCP, as 
described previously. In fact, even with the use of a reordering 
buffer and different cwnd values for each link, the 
out-of-packets can still incur a large queuing delay at the HA 
and significantly reduce the sending rate of the source node.  
IV. ENHANCEMENTS FOR TCP ON A MULTI-HOMED MOBILE 
ROUTER
To overcome the performance issues one might encounter 
when developing a MR for a multi-homed environment, we 
propose a protocol called Enhancements for TCP On a 
Multi-homed Mobile Router (ETOM). ETOM consists of three 
components: a Reordering Buffer, Multi-homed Split 
Connections and Scheduled Window-based Transmission 
Control, which are described in details below. 
and denote it as p.     
rwd lossno  , rwd *21loss  , rjwd *)1(jloss  ,
jpp  ,jloss 㻌
After simplifying w, r, p, we can obtain E(D) as a function of 
w, r, p and replace equation 1 with: 





	







	











11
1
2
1*)()*)*)1(((
1*)(*)*)1((
*)*3(*)*2(),,(
k
k
k
k
k
kk
prwprkw
prwprkw
prwprwprwE
  (2) 
Equation 2 can be further reduced into to a closed form as 
shown in equation 3, which can be used to estimate the 
expected delay when a packet is scheduled to be transmitted on 
path i.
iPathw
pp
r
prwE
i
ii
i
iiii
,1
)1(
1
)1(
1*
),,(
2 




	








     (3) 
To estimate the expected delay E(D), we need to first 
estimate w and r. w is the waiting time before the scheduled 
packet can be injected into the link while r is the network 
round-trip delay (i.e. the duration between when the scheduled 
packet is injected into the link and when the MR receives the 
corresponding ACK). Estimating w needs to consider two 
things: the time (m) to wait for all previous scheduled packets 
to be injected into the link and the time (n) to wait until the 
congestion window is open (i.e. when cwnd is larger than the 
amount of outstanding data), as shown in equation 4.  
iPathnmw iii ,                                                         (4) 
In other words, mi can be computed by estimating the 
transmission delay of all previous scheduled packets. The 
transmission delay can be obtained by dividing the available 
bandwidth (B) by the packet size (d). We adopt the bandwidth 
estimation function in TCP Westwood [27] to calculate B and 
assume all packets have the same size. Take Figure 2 as an 
example, packet 1 is sent at t1 and the MR receives its ACK at 
t3. The ACK of packet 1 triggers the scheduled transmission of 
packet 2 and packet 3. In this case, the waiting time mi for 
packet 2 is zero. On the other hand, given packet 3 needs to 
wait for packet 2 to be transmitted, the estimated mi for packet 3 
will be t.
Figure 2. Example of estimating mi.
ni is the estimated time to wait for when there is enough 
bandwidth to transmit the packet (i.e. cwnd > the amount of 
outstanding data). In other words, ni aims to estimate the 
duration for enough ACKs to come back so that cwnd can be 
advanced to a level that is larger than the amount of outstanding 
data on path i. Finally, we use the measured rtt to estimate the 
network round trip delay ri for path i. The round trip delay 
consists of the transmission delay (including the transmission 
delay of those packets that are already in the scheduled queue 
waiting to be transmitted, i.e. mi), queuing delay and 
propagation delay. Given that mi is already estimated when we 
calculate wi, as shown in equation 4, we estimate the round-trip 
delay kr  for data segment k on path i as: 
k
i
k
Mk mrttr 

We further compute kr

 by averaging samples kr  to avoid 
large fluctuations of ri between different data segments.  Here 
we set to0.875 as in most implementations of smoothed rtt. 
kkk rrr 
 
 *)1(ˆ* 1 

D. Home Agent ACK in Multi-homed Split Connection  
When out-of-order delivery occurs, ACKs are delayed because 
of packet reordering, which results in the queuing delay in the 
HA and the reduced sending rate at the sender. Scheduled 
window-based transmission control may not be able to 
completely eliminate the queuing delay in the HA because it 
use only an approximation to predict the expected delay of a 
path. Therefore, we propose a simple idea called home agent 
ACK (hACK) to mitigate the effect of such queuing delay. 
Note that hACK can work independently, with or without the 
previously-described scheduled window-based transmission 
control.  
V. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
We evaluate the performance of ETOM in NS-2. We run 
FTP application on the source node. In order to fairly compare 
with CMT-SCTP, which runs on the end hosts (while ETOM 
runs on the MR and the HA), in our simulations we combine the 
source node with the MR, and the HA with the destination. The 
bandwidth and delay of the wired links are set to 100Mbps and 
1ms. We simulate WiMax by setting the bandwidth of the 
wireless links to 5392.8Kbps, which is the theoretical value of 
WiMax for 10ms frame duration and 3.5MHz channel 
bandwidth. The delay of the WiMax links is set to 14ms based 
on a real world measurement study we conducted previously 
[28]. 
A. Evaluation of Scheduled Window-based Transmission 
Control (SWTC) 
Out-of-order packets could potentially create queuing delay 
in the HA. Such queuing delay might increase as the links 
become more heterogeneous, as shown in Figure 5, for 
CMT-SCTP and MITC-SC. A long queue in the HA due to 
out-of-order delivery will increase the end-to-end delay and 
create jitter at the CN. As shown in several previous studies 
[29]-[32], the performance of streaming and gaming 
applications is very sensitive to delay and jitter. In addition, a 
large queuing delay results in bursty traffic from the HA to the 
CN. Bursty traffic is prone to packet loss when the available 
bandwidth is reduced [33]. As shown in Figure 5, we find that, 
Figure 7. Comparison of throughput for different mean durations of erroneous 
state. 
VI. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORKS
In this paper, we discuss some potential performance issues of 
TCP in a multi-homed environment and propose an integrated 
framework ETOM to improve TCP performance when 
out-of-order delivery and packet loss occur. Unlike SCTP, 
ETOM is transparent to the end hosts and does not require any 
modification of the end points, which makes ETOM practical 
for deployment in the real world. We evaluate ETOM’s 
performance by comparing it against SCTP in simulations and 
show it can achieve good performance in a lossy and 
heterogeneous multi-homed environment. In our future work 
we plan to implement ETOM on a testbed to evaluate its 
performance and identify its limitations in a real world 
environment.  
Acknowledgment 
This work was supported by the National Science Council, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
under Grant NSC 100-2219-E-006-005 and by the Ministry of Education, 
Taiwan, R.O.C. under the NCKU Project of Promoting Academic Excellence & 
Developing World Class Research Centers. 
References
[1] E. Perera, V. Sivaraman, and A. Seneviratne., "Survey on network mobility 
support," SIGMOBILE Mob. Comput. Commun. Rev., vol. 8, pp. 7-19, 2004. 
[2] R. Baldessar, A. Festag, and J. Abeille, "Nemo meets VANET: a 
deployability analysis of network mobility in vehicular communication," 2007, 
pp. 1-6. 
[3] J. Yao, Salil S. Kanhere, and Mahbub Hassan., "Geo-intelligent Traffic 
Scheduling in Multi-homed On-board Networks," presented at the Proceedings 
of the 4th ACM International Workshop on Mobility in the Evolving Internet 
Architecture (ACM MobiArch 2009), Krakow, Poland, 2009. 
[4] VIA rail, Canada. Available: 
http://www.viarail.ca/en/useful-info/onboard-train/wireless-internet/
[5] Virgin trains, United Kingdom. Available:  
http://www.virgintrains.co.uk/trains/wi-fi/
[6] 21Net, United Kingdom. Available: http://www.21net.com/
[7] V. Devarapalli, R. Wakikawa, A. Petrescu, and P. Thubert, "Network 
Mobility (NEMO) Basic Support Protocol," RFC 3963, January 2005. 
[8] R. Stewart, "Stream Control Transmission Protocol," RFC 4960, 2007. 
[9] C. Perkins, "IP Encapsulation within IP," RFC 2003, October 1996. 
[10] H. Hung-Yun and R. Sivakumar, "pTCP: an end-to-end transport layer 
protocol for striped connections," in Network Protocols, 2002. Proceedings. 
10th IEEE International Conference on, 2002, pp. 24-33. 
[11] F. Wang and Y. Zhang, "Improving TCP performance over mobile 
ad-hoc networks with out-of-order detection and response," presented at the 
Proceedings of the 3rd ACM international symposium on Mobile ad hoc 
networking ; computing, Lausanne, Switzerland, 2002. 
[12] J. R. Iyengar, Paul D. Amer, and Randall Stewart, "Concurrent Multipath 
Transfer Using SCTP Multihoming Over Independent End-to-End Paths," 
Networking, IEEE/ACM Transactions on, vol. 14, pp. 951-964, 2006. 
[13] M. K. A. Matsumoto, K. Fujikawa, and Y. Okabe, "TCP Multi-Home 
Options," presented at the draft-arifumi-tcp-mh-00.txt, IETF Internet draft, 
2003. 
[14]   R. Wakikawa, Ed., V. Devarapalli, G. Tsirtsis, T. Ernst, and K. Nagami,  
"Multiple Care-of Addresses Registration," RFC 5648,  October 2009. 
[15] H. Berkowitz and D. Krioukov, "To be multihomed: Requirements and 
definitions," Internet Draft, July 2001. 
[16] C. Huitema and R. Draves, "Host-centric ipv6 multihoming," Internet 
Draft, July 2001. 
[17] J. Abley, B. Black, and V. Gill, "Ipv4 multihoming motivation, practices 
and limitations," Internet Draft, June 2001. 
[18] B. Black, J. Abley, and V. Gill, "Requirements for ipv6 site-multihoming 
architectures," Internet Draft, November 2001. 
[19] Y. Jun, Yi Duan, Jianyu Pan, and Kun-chan Lan, "Implementation of a 
Multihoming Agent for Mobile On-board Communication," in Vehicular 
Technology Conference, 2006. VTC 2006-Spring. IEEE 63rd, 2006, pp. 
896-900. 
[20] N. Enomoto, H. Shimonishi, and J. Higuchi, "High-Speed, Short-Latency 
Multipath Ethernet for Data Center Area Communications," in Global 
Telecommunications Conference, 2008. IEEE GLOBECOM 2008. IEEE, 2008, 
pp. 1-6. 
[21] A. Bakre and B. R. Badrinath, "I-TCP: indirect TCP for mobile hosts," in 
Distributed Computing Systems, 1995., Proceedings of the 15th International 
Conference on, 1995, pp. 136-143. 
[22] Hari Balakrishnan, Srinivasan Seshan, and Randy H. Katz, "Improving 
reliable transport and handoff performance in cellular wireless networks," Wirel. 
Netw., vol. 1, pp. 469-481, 1995. 
[23] K. Brown and S. Singh, "M-TCP: TCP for mobile cellular networks," 
SIGCOMM Comput. Commun. Rev., vol. 27, pp. 19-43, 1997. 
[24]   D. S. Phatak, Tom Goff, and Jim Plusquellic, "IP-in-IP tunneling to 
enable the simultaneous use of multiple IP interfaces for network level 
connection striping," Comput. Netw., vol. 43, pp. 787-804, 2003. 
[25] H. Han, S. Shakkottai, C.V. Hollot, R. Srikant, and D. Towsley, 
"Multi-Path TCP: A Joint Congestion Control and Routing Scheme to Exploit 
Path Diversity in the Internet," Networking, IEEE/ACM Transactions on, vol. 
14, pp. 1260-1271, 2006. 
[26] Hasegawa Y., Yamaguchi I., Hama T., Shimonishi H., and Murase T., 
"Improved data distribution for multipath TCP communication," in 
GLOBECOM '05. IEEE, 2005. 
[27] S. Mascolo, C. Casetti, M. Geria, M. Y. Sanadidi, and Ren Wang, "TCP 
westwood: Bandwidth estimation for enhanced transport over wireless links," 
presented at the Proceedings of the 7th annual international conference on 
Mobile computing and networking, Rome, Italy, 2001.  
[28] Chien-Ming Chou, Chen-Yuan Li, Wei-Min Chien, and Kun-chan Lan, 
"A Feasibility Study on Vehicle-to-Infrastructure Communication: WiFi vs. 
WiMAX," in Mobile Data Management: Systems, Services and Middleware, 
2009. MDM '09. Tenth International Conference on, 2009, pp. 397-398. 
[29] J. G. Apostolopoulos, Wai-tian Tan, and Susie J. Wee, "Video streaming: 
Concepts, algorithms, and systems," HP Laboratories, report, 2002. 
[30] J. I. Khan and R. Y. Zaghal, "Jitter and delay reduction for time sensitive 
elastic traffic for TCP-interactive based world wide video streaming over 
ABone," in Computer Communications and Networks, 2003. ICCCN 2003. 
Proceedings. The 12th International Conference on, 2003, pp. 311-316. 
[31] Kuan-ta Chen, Cheng-chun Tu, and Wei-cheng Xiao, "OneClick: A 
framework for measuring network quality of experience," in IEEE INFOCOM 
2009, April 2009.  
[32] Kuan-Ta Chen, Polly Huang, and Chin-Laung Lei., "How sensitive are 
online gamers to network quality?," Commun. ACM, vol. 49, pp. 34-38, 2006. 
[33] F. Goldstein and R. Callon, "Congestion avoidance in high-speed 
network carrying bursty traffic," ed: US Patent 5,029,164, 1991. 
[34] G. Camarillo, R. Kantola, and H. Schulzrinne, "Evaluation of transport 
protocols for the session initiation protocol," Network, IEEE, vol. 17, pp. 40-46, 
2003 
[35] Andrei Gurtov, Sally Floyd, "Modeling wireless links for transport 
protocols," SIGCOMM Comput. Commun. Rev. vol. 34, 2, pp. 85-96, April 
2004. 
[36] W. Eddy, S. Ostermann, and M. Allman, "New techniques for making 
transport protocols robust to corruption-based loss," SIGCOMM Comput. 
Commun. Rev. vul. 34, 5, pp 75-88, October 2004. 
[37] McDougall and S. Miller, "Sensitivity of wireless network simulations to 
a two-state Markov model channel approximation," In Proceedings of the 
GLOBECOM, 2003.
100 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：藍崑展 計畫編號：100-2219-E-006-005- 
計畫名稱：普及位置感測：關鍵技術與應用之研發--子計畫四：普及位置感測:動機引發技術之研發(I)
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
