 最佳的 CPI。 
關鍵詞：類比數位轉換、類比數位轉換、混合訊號式積體電路、奈米 CMOS。 
 
Abstract 
This project is to design analog-to-digital converters (ADC) and digital-to-analog 
converters (DAC) in nano-scale CMOS technologies.  Although they are 
mixed-signal designs, we will emphasize the use of digital signal processing to 
compensate the unfavorable effects on analog circuitry caused by advanced 
technologies.  The objectives are to improve overall all system performance and/or 
simplify analog circuitry. Simpler analog circuits are easier to design, can scale along 
with technologies, and take less man-hour to do technology migration. 
This project is focused on (1) flash ADC; (2) pipelined ADC; (3) two-step ADC; 
(4) current-switching DAC; (5) time-interleaved ADC; and (6) clock jitter 
measurement and compensation. 
We will design a 6-bit 2-GS/s flash ADC.  It will include digitally-calibrated 
comparators to save power.  We will design a 12-bit 200-MS/s pipelined ADC.  We 
will simplify the opamp’s circuit, and develop nonlinearity calibration technique to 
improve ADC’s resolution.  We will design a 10-bit 100-MS/s two-step ADC.  By 
combining the design techniques of flash ADC and pipelined ADC, we can further 
optimize the power consumption of the two-step ADC.  We will design a 14-bit 
500-MS/s DAC.  We will develop digital calibration technique to overcome the 
limitation due to mismatches. 
Besides the resolution of signal magnitude, we also must pay attention to the 
resolution of sampling timing.  For example, in time-interleaved (TI) ADCs, 
mismatches among sampling phases can degrade the ADC’s overall resolution.  We 
will design an 8-channel 6-bit 16-GS/s TI ADC by assembling 8 channels of the 6-Bit 
2-GS/s Flash ADC previously mentioned.  We will develop calibration technique to 
correct sampling-phase mismatches.  Furthermore, a low-jitter clock is required to 
provide clean sampling timing for high-resolution ADCs.  We will develop technique 
for clock jitter measurement.  We then can use the measured jitter data to 
compensate the ADC’s digital outputs, thus avoiding the use of expensive low-jitter 
clocks. 
All circuits designed in this project will be fabricated using 90nm or more 
advanced CMOS technologies.  The chips will be characterized to validate the 
design techniques developed in this project.  We will compare the chips with similar 
designs against the chip performance index (CPI).  Our objective is to achieve the 
best CPI. 
Key Words: Analog-to-Digital Conversion, Digital-to-Analog Conversion, 
Mixed-Signal Integrated Circuits, Nano-Scale CMOS. 
2 
 三、執行成果 
本計畫將研究在奈米 CMOS 製程下的混合訊號式積體電路設計技術，將利
用數位信號處理（DSP）的方法來彌補先進製程所造成的非理想效應，進而完成
高效能的混合信號式積體電路。所發展的技術會以「晶片效能指標」（Chip 
Performance Index, CPI）來衡量其進步性，而所開發的晶片會以追求最佳 CPI 
（類似功能）為目標。 
以比較器為主的 Flash 架構可設計出最高速的類比數位轉換器（ADC）。本
計畫將會設計一個 6-Bit 2-GS/s Flash ADC。其中新型的比較器設計可以降低功率
消耗。Subranging架構是 Flash架構的變形，可用來設計較高解析度的 ADC，但
會犧牲速度。本計畫將會設計一個 10-Bit 1-GS/s Subranging ADC。以線性放大器
為主的 Pipelined架構，可用來設計高解析度 ADC。但是因為使用了線性放大器，
速度會較慢。本計畫將會設計一個 14-Bit 200-MS/s Pipelined ADC。而元件的不
匹配問題將以數位訊號處理的方式解決。另外，時序交錯 (Time-Interleaved. TI) 
的架構可用來提升整體的取樣頻率。而 TI架構中有關 Gain、Offset、Phase不匹
配的問題，本計畫將提出數位訊號處理的解決方式。本計畫將利用前述的 6-Bit 
Flash ADC來組合一個 8-channel 6-Bit 16-GS/s TI ADC。 
在數位類比轉換器（DAC）部分，本計畫將以 Current-Switching架構為主。
在高速的 DAC中，Current-Switch元件會是電路設計的重點。本計畫將會設計一
個 6-Bit 4-GS/s及一個 6-Bit 8-GS/s的 DAC。若要提升解析度，則必須解決元件
的不匹配問題，而電路會因此趨於複雜並速度減緩。本計畫將會設計一個 14-Bit 
500-MS/s DAC，並且以數位訊號處理的方式解決元件匹配問題。 
無論是 ADC 或是 DAC 都需要有相對頻率及相對相位精確度的時脈產生
器。本計畫將會設計一個用於 8-channel 6-Bit 16-GS/s TI ADC的時脈產生器。其
共有 8組相位不同的輸出，頻率可達 2 GHz，並且可以微調相位。在高解析度方
面，如何量測並降低時脈抖動會是研究重點。本計畫將設計 200 MHz到 500 MHz
的低抖動時脈產生器。 
本計畫所設計的電路皆會以 130 nm或 90 nm的 CMOS製作成晶片並加以量
測，以驗證所發展的技術的可行性。 
以下各小節將簡述本計畫今年度的一些成果。 
4 
  
 
Fig 3A.2: Pipeline stage. 
 
Fig 3A.3: Pipeline stage transfer function. 
A calibration processor (CP) for nonlinearity calibration is shown in Fig 3A.4.  
The correlation-based  extractor acquires parameters that were used in the Do,j 
encoding to correct stage gain and sub-DAC errors.  The  and  extractors 
acquire parameters that were used to estimate the stage nonlinearity coefficients.  
Once the  and  nonlinearity coefficients are obtained, they are used to correct 
the 2nd and 3rd order harmonic errors in the Dz data.  The theory and algorithm of 
calibration will be released in the upcoming publication.  The calibration can be 
performed in the background without interrupting the normal A/D operation. 
,
I
j kW
,
II
j kW ,
III
j kW
2b 3b
6 
 pipeline stage.  No additional sample-and-hold amplifier is used.  The S1 and S2 
switches are bootstrapped switches.  The sub-ADC's total input capacitance in the 
first pipeline stage is 0.35 pF. 
 
Fig 3A.6: Comparator circuit schematic. 
 
Fig 3A.7: Micrograph of the ADC prototype. 
Fig 3A.7 shows the ADC chip micrograph.  The core area is .   
Digital circuits occupy about 30% of the total area.  The digital block and the analog 
block use separate power lines.  The supply voltage is 1.2 V.  Operating at 80 MS/s 
sampling rate, the analog block consumes 26 mW, while the digital block consumes 6 
mW.  All the voltage references are externally applied. 
20.750.92  mm×
8 
  
Fig 3A.9: Measured SNDR and SFDR versus input frequencies at 80MS/s. 
 
Table 3A.1: ADC performance summary. 
Technology 65 nm 
Supply Voltage 1.2/1.2 V 
Input Range 1.9 Vpp  
Resolution 12 Bits 
Sampling Rate 80 MS/s 
DNL (16-bit LSB) -0.7/+0.7  
INL (16-bit LSB) -1.5/+2.6 
SFDR (fin = 5MHz) 81 dB 
SNR (fin = 5MHz) 67 dB 
Power (V
AA
/V
DD
) 26/6 mW  
Die Size 0.92x0.75 mm
2
 
 
10 
 complexity of the RDAC switch box and relaxes the resolution requirement of the 
FADC.  The power consumption of the RAMP is reduced by including digital 
calibration.  To reduce the power consumption of the CADC and FADC, the 
comparators are regenerative latches with offset calibration.  The ADC is fabricated 
using a standard 90 nm CMOS technology and operated under a single 1V supply. 
Comparators 
Both CADC and FADC are flash-type ADCs.  The CADC comprises 33 
comparators.  The FADC comprises 65 comparators.  Conventional comparator 
usually consists of a preamplifier followed by a regenerative latch.  The gain of the 
preamplifier reduces the effect of the latch’s offset.  The preamplifier’s offset can be 
reduced by either averaging or switched-capacitor offset cancellation.  The 
comparator’s power consumption is dominated by the preamplifier.  In our design, 
the preamplifier is eliminated altogether. 
 
 
Fig 3B.2: CADC comparator schematic. 
Fig 3B.2 shows the schematic of the comparator for CADC. It is essentially a 
regenerative latch with an analog offset calibration (AOC) loop.  This comparator 
operates at two phases, i.e., calibration phase (φ1) and comparison phase (φ2).  
During φ1=1, the V1 input is sampled onto the C1 capacitor and the latch input, Va, is 
connected to a fixed common-mode signal, VCM. The latch then makes a comparison 
of the difference between Va and Vb, which represents the equivalent input offset 
voltage of the comparator.  The resulting DC digital output is translated into an up or 
down pulse to charge or discharge the C2 capacitor.  The voltage on the capacitor, Vb, 
adjusts the equivalent input offset voltage of the latch.  In our design, Vb is changed 
by 1/32LSB every calibration cycle.  During φ2=1, the difference between V1 and 
VRC[n] is generated at the latch input, Va.  The latch then makes another comparison, 
12 
 RDAC output corresponding to the D1 input, while Vr[+1] is Vr[0]−1LSB and Vr[−1] 
is Vr[0]+1LSB. The q is a triple-valued random signal generated by the CP described 
below.  Its value is among {0, +1, −1}.  The final RDAC output is selected by q 
such that Vda=Vr[q].  This operation injects a random calibration signal into the 
RAMP.  Its magnitude is among {0, +8LSB, −8LSB}.  The RDAC consumes 
1mW. 
 
Fig 3B.4: Resistor-string DAC (RDAC) schematic. 
 
 
Fig 3B.5: Calibration processor (CP) block diagram. 
The calibration processor shown in Fig 3B.5 is used to correct the gain error and 
3rd-order nonlinearity of the RAMP.  It consists of a signal compensator and a 
coefficient estimator.  The signal compensator uses the 1st-order coefficient, b1, and 
14 
 summarized in Table 3B.1. 
 
Fig 3B.7: Measured SNDR and SFDR versus input frequencies. 
 
Fig 3B.8: Measured DNL before and after calibration. 
 
Fig 3B.9: Measured INL before and after calibration. 
16 
 四、結論 
資料轉換器的設計技術是本人的重點研究項目，包括類比數位轉換器（ADC）
以及數位類比轉換器（DAC）。所發展的技術可適用於最先進的 CMOS積體電路
製程，而且可以提升轉換器的效能。 
在 Pipelined ADC方面，我們自信有領先世界的設計技術。我們研發的數位
校正技術最完整也最具實用價值。此技術可以用來補償元件不匹配、放大器增益
不足、電路不夠線性的基本問題。今年度我們已經成功的設計、製作、並量測出
一個 12-Bit 80-MS/s Pipelined ADC 晶片。由於使用了數位校正技術，我們可以
簡化 ADC的類比電路，並且降低功率消耗。此 ADC的功率消耗只有 32 mW。 
另外，今年度我們也成功的設計、製作、並量測出一個低功率 10-Bit 100-MS/s 
two-step ADC晶片。為了降低功率消耗，我們採用了 Two-Step架構。此架構需
要將近 100個比較器。我們的比較器是可以自動校正的 Latch-Type比較器。至於
Residue Amplifier，我們採用的是 Open-Loop架構，並且配合數位自動非線性校
正技術來提升線性度。此 ADC晶片的整體功率消耗只有 6 mW。 
本人還有其他資料轉換器的研究，例如低功率 Pipelined ADC，高速 Flash 
ADC，高速 DAC，Jitter量測等。本計畫所設計的電路都會製作成晶片並且量測，
以驗證所提出的技術。我們會在以後的國科會計畫中，持續發表成果。 
本計畫所提出的新技術都有申請專利。本計畫所發表的論文皆可從主持人的
網頁下載：http://www.cc.nctu.edu.tw/~jtwu。 
 
18 
