 
結合三角定位與光亮度估計之三維掃瞄技術之研究 
Reliable 3D scanning by combining triangulation and 
photometric techniques 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-009 -162 
執行期間： 95 年 8 月 1 日 至  96 年 7 月 31 日 
計畫主持人：林奕成　 國立交通大學資訊工程系助理教授 
 
中文摘要 
在三維物件建模技術中，三維掃描技術可以快速地獲得真實物件的三維表面深度值資
料，因此常用於建立電腦動畫中細緻的人物與場景模型；在製造界則利用此特性，將此技
術應用於實體模型的數位化，以用於電腦後製處理。 
然而，採用三角測量定位技術的三維掃描技術，容易受到輸入影像雜訊的影響，造成
所計算出的三維表面容易有抖動失真的現象。而採用低頻濾波技術(low-pass filtering)等方
式來後處理，會造成銳角等重要高頻資料的遺失。相較之下，採用光度測量方式如
Shape-from-shading 技術，所獲得的三維表面在平滑表面上不易有抖動，但是卻有幾何形
狀失真的現象。 
本研究計畫將利用兩者的優點，研發結合三角測量定位與光亮度測量的三維掃描建模
技術，以提升掃描資料的準確度。 
 
關鍵詞：三維建模、三維掃描、深度資料、光亮度測量外型重建技術 
1. Introduction 
For accurate reconstruction of 3D models, combining both positions and reflectance properties 
(shading information) is a practical method. Nehab (2005) et al. proposed an impressive approach 
to combine 3D positions and normals for precise 3D geometry. They measured the positions and 
normals by a structured light system and a photometric stereo method respectively. In order to 
efficiently combine the positions and normals by linear cross products, they assume the objects 
are with lambertian properties and only use lambertian reflectance model to acquire normals. 
However, non-lambertian and sub-surface scattering materials are commonly found in the natured 
world. The lambertian reflectance model is insufficient to represent the greater part of objects. A 
simpler non-lambertian model for shape recovery is purposed by Yu (2004) et al. They apply the 
Phong reflectance model to model the surface reflectance and then used visual hull to find the 
initial shape. Then, an optimization approach, conjugate gradient, is purposed to find the shape 
and reflectance parameters that fit multiple views images. Although, the specular reflection is 
taken into account and visual hull is used for initial positions. The sub-surface scattering material 
objects are still not easy to be reconstructed by their method. This problem is still a bottleneck of 
the reconstruction. In general, to scan these objects, operators usually apply powders or paints on 
the surface to avoid dealing with non-lambertian properties. The painting process is inconvenient 
and not applicable for valuable objects. 
To tackle the above mentioned problems, in this paper, we present the use of the stereo structured 
light to acquire the initial positions. And then, Phong model and Bidirectional Scattering Surface 
Reflectance Distribution Function model (BSSRDF) are used to optimize the positions of scanned 
3D geometry and also acquire the reflectance properties. For the BSSRDF model, Jensen et al. 
(2001) introduced a dipole diffusion approximation for light scattering. This approximation uses 
an extension to diffusion theory. 
We make use of these models to compensate scanned 3D geometry of the non-lambertian or 
sub-surface scattering objects. Our method is performed in three steps: First, a projective stereo 
structured light system is used to acquire the initial positions and normals. Second, assume the 
light and camera locations are known, we simplify the Phong model and Jensen’s model. Then, 
we use the simplify models to acquire the optimize reflectance parameters. The optimization 
method we apply is conjugate gradient. It minimizes the difference between synthesized images 
and the real images. Last, using the estimated reflectance parameters, we can further optimize the 
position with conjugate gradient. In order to get a more precise shape and reflectance properties, 
we can repeat the step 2 and step 3. Finally, we can reconstruct a most accurate 3D model and 
reflectance properties. 
 
2. Related work 
In order to obtain high-quality 3D geometry, combing positions and shading information can be a 
considerable solution. Donner and Jensen (2005) purposed a two-phase hybrid reconstruction 
algorithm for precise 3D geometry. In the first phase, they used positions to improve normals. Let 
    )(),( iiii IROTerror −=
      )()()(),( 222 jz
i
z
j
y
i
y
j
x
i
x PPPPPPjismooth −+−+−=
    )),(),((
1 1
2∑ ∑
= =
+=
n
i
m
j
ii jismoothOTerrorC
where iI  is the intensity value of iP  on input image. 
We define the error between 
iT  and 
iO  as the difference of 
iR (Synthesis reflectance value) and 
iI  (image intensity): 
 
 
When optimizing the positions, we also define a smooth term to restrict the change of the variable 
between iP  and his neighborhood jP : 
 
Finally, we define a cost function C to represent the difference between synthetic and observed 
images and also the smooth term to represent the reasonableness of estimated surface. Last, the 
cost function is formed by sum of the squared error and sum of the smooth term between all of 
the neighborhoods in over all visible points.   
When reconstructing the reflectance properties, we define C as follow: 
 
where N is visible point number, and m is neighborhood number. 
Through minimizing the cost function, we can evaluate the most appropriate surface and 
reflectance parameters. 
 
4. Result and conclusion 
We use a bunny from Standford PLY file and render the bunny with reflectance model and add 
random noise to z values of each point as initial position guesses. Then, we perform our 
optimization algorithm with Phong and BSSRDF model. The results are as follows: 
Figure: The right line is the ground-truth result. The middle of line is lambertain optimization 
 可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  5 可技術移轉                                      日期：96 年 10 月 31 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：結合三角定位與光亮度估計之三維掃瞄技術之研究 
計畫主持人：林奕成　 國立交通大學資訊工程系助理教授    
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-009 -162 學門領域：計算機 
技術/創作名稱 結合三角定位與光亮度估計之三維掃瞄技術之研究 
發明人/創作人 林奕成、張文星、羅永盛 
技術說明 
中文： 
在三維物件建模技術中，三維掃描技術可以快速地獲得真實物
件的三維表面深度值資料，因此常用於建立電腦動畫中細緻的人物
與場景模型；在製造界則利用此特性，將此技術應用於實體模型的
數位化，以用於電腦後製處理。 
然而，採用三角測量定位技術的三維掃描技術，容易受到輸入
影像雜訊的影響，造成所計算出的三維表面容易有抖動失真的現
象。而採用低頻濾波技術(low-pass filtering)等方式來後處理，會造
成銳角等重要高頻資料的遺失。相較之下，採用光度測量方式如
Shape-from-shading 技術，所獲得的三維表面在平滑表面上不易有
抖動，但是卻有幾何形狀失真的現象。 
本研究計畫利用兩者的優點，研發結合三角測量定位與光亮度
測量的三維掃描建模技術，以提升掃描資料的準確度。 
英文： 
3D scanning techniques, which can rapidly acquire depth data on a 
real object's surface, are prevalently used to generate subtle models in 
3D computer animation and games. Manufacturing also applies these 
techniques to digitization of real models in prototype design. 
However, 3D scanning devices that utilize triangulation methods are 
prone to be disturbed by input noise. Jittering on scanned models is 
usually unavoidable. When applying low-pass filtering to deal with this 
problem, we will lose the important sharp features. By contrast, models 
estimated by photometric techniques, such as shape-from-shading, 
have little jitter on smooth surfaces, but they are prone to distortion in 
geometry. 
In this project, we take the advantages of these two methods. By 
combining the triangulation positioning and photometric methods, the 
accuracy of the proposed 3D scanning system can be improved. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
數位內容產業、電腦動畫與遊戲製作、三維建模工具 
附件二 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-009 -162 
計畫名稱 Reliable 3D scanning by combining triangulation and photometric techniques 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
彭任右 
國立交通大學資訊科學與工程研究所 博士班學生 
會議時間地點 Hasselt, Belgium, June 11‐13, 2007 
會議名稱 International Conference on Computer Animation and Social Agents 2007 
發表論文題目 Interactive and Flexible Motion Transition 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
本次會議為數位多媒體專門技術中心(Expertise Centre for Digital Media)與比利時 Hasselt大學
所主辦之  20 屆之 Computer Animation and Social Agents會議，於  2007 年  6 月  11 日至  13 
日在比利時 Hasselt市之假日旅館舉行。Computer Animation and Social Agents會議為每年舉辦
一次之電腦動畫技術研討會，與會者包括了歐、美、中、韓、日等國家之研究單位以及大學
研究所之學者。在本次的會議中，依據不同的主題，在電腦動畫方面共分成  12 個場次，發
表了 51 篇之論文，參與本會議人數高達一百多人，為國際間相當重要之電腦動畫技術研討
會。本人所發表之論文”  Interactive  and  Flexible  Motion  Transition”為一相當受注目的研究主
題，相關成果正在申請專利中。而在會議的過程中，我也與眾多國際上的知名學者，進行深
入的討論與交流。由於本次會議中所發表之論文均為目前最新的研究成果，在會議過程中討
論與發言皆相當踴躍，對於本人後續之研究方向與創新思維，亦有相當大的啟發效果。同時，
我也在本會議中激發出許多研究點子，並掌握到未來可以努力的方向。因此，參與本次的國
際研討會對於本人後續在電腦動畫領域上的研究可以說是有相當大的助益。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
在  20屆 Computer Animation and Social Agents國際研討會中，許多關於電腦動畫技術發展上
的嶄新突破與成果發表，以及對於發展趨勢的討論使本人受益良多，特別是有好幾篇以反向
關節運動力學的為基礎的合成研究，似乎可以結合到我個人的研究上，提升最後成果的畫面
