三、文獻探討 
在工作空間的相關理論中，Riley及Sanvido[2]將作業空間類型與作業空間的
概念分類，更加以闡述在複雜的工地中空間使用行為模式之分類。而Akinci等人 
[3, 4]在2002年則利用時空衝突的概念建立了空間衝突分析的機制與空間衝突的
分類，清楚將衝突類型分成五類，分別是設計衝突、安全上的危險、損壞衝突、
擁擠、無影響，並且認為工作空間的需求隨著時間而改變，同時衝突的比率不同
亦造成不同程度之影響，Akinci等人更提到衝突作業造成生產力的降低、增加無
附加價值之作業、中斷工作流程、延遲作業的開始時間。而關於國內相關研究部
分，像是吳俊達[5]於其研究中發展一建築工程施工作業空間規劃與衝突分析流
程，運用目前營造廠普遍使用的進度排程軟體Microsoft Project與電腦輔助繪圖軟
體Autodesk AutoCAD作為作業空間規劃的平台，以進行作業空間衝突之分析與
解決對策之研擬。紀宛君[6]建置一大型結構實驗室資源管理輔助系統以虛擬實
境（Virtual Reality）配合平面資訊的方式呈現，管理者得以和虛擬場景溝通，達
到互動的功能，除了可進行空間管理與場地配置，同時也使空間規劃資訊和實驗
排程資訊銜接上，提供空間管理與衝突檢測的機制。而近期研究中，許多研究皆
利用空間語法（Space Syntax）進行最佳化的空間配置與建議。如，仲闓立[7]利
用空間語法之概念將工程CAD圖面轉換成對應之拓樸結構，再利用空間分析因
子（Spatial Analysis Parameters）來評估空間屬性，當空間衝突發生時，利用空
間屬性進行衝突分析。 
有關4D動態模擬技術方面的研究，大約在1990年左右，就已經有一些研究
人員開始致力於虛擬實境及視覺化技術應用於施工過程上的研究，雖然當時4D
營建管理系統尚未成形，但是虛擬實境的應用卻是發展4D營建管理系統的一個
重要概念，像是Retik在1993年發表的文章中就提出利用非沉浸式的虛擬實境技
術來模擬及呈現整個施工過程[8]，然而所謂4D時代的來臨，一般會從史丹佛大
學的CIFE研究中心在1990年中期開始推動了幾個成功的4D CAD相關研究案例
開始說起。CIFE當時建置了幾個相當成功的4D模型案例，例如San Mateo Health 
Facility[9, 10]計畫及Walt Disney Imagineering計畫，就相當引人注目，這些成功
的研究案例，除了鼓舞了CIFE持續且積極地投入4D的研究之外，也帶動了一連
串的研究風潮。如Akinci等人於2002年應用4D營建管理系統於空間規劃上，他們
所開發的4D Workplanner Space Generator和4D Workplanner Time–Space Conflict 
Analyser兩個系統，就是利用4D營建管理系統來模擬分析工程空間及時間上的衝
突[11]。而國內的相關研究如2006年呂明娟[12]在其碩士論文中建置建築結構工
程4D模擬系統，希望透過視覺工具預先模擬時間與空間同時發展的細節，在工
程施工前發現設計衝突點，並加以管制，降低施工中設計變更的可能性，進而提
高生產力。2006年謝尚賢等人於國立台灣大學與中鼎工程公司的建教合作計畫中
開發了一套名為Construction Director的4D營建管理系統[13, 14]，其可結合專案
突、安全上危險、損壞衝突、擁擠，並且考慮工作空間需求會隨著時間的改變而
變化，且在同時間也會有不同的空間衝突產生，形成衝突的比率不同亦會造成不
同程度的影響。這四類的空間衝突種類定義如下： 
 設計衝突：工程中之分項工程通常分屬不同設計部門，在各自發展設計圖說
的狀況下，複雜的建築、結構、水電、環控、消防等設施，在空間配置上常
會發生介面衝突。例如，機電設備設計空間不足安裝空間緊靠結構體、管線
交疊造成天花板高度不足等。 
 安全上衝突：工區中具有動能或活動中的機具設備與人員的工作空間發生衝
突因而產生危險。例如，工程車輛行駛動線上與其他機具衝突、起重機吊裝
作業範圍內與其他作業人員空間重疊、挖土機的工作範圍中有其他工項進行
等。 
 損壞衝突：為執行某工程項目必頇損壞已完成工項，造成重工的情況。例如，
設備搬運動線上的通道或門無法讓設備通過必頇拆除。 
 擁擠：工作需求空間不足或重疊。例如，物料儲存空間太小造成物料堆置重
疊、預計放置物料的地點被佔用等、室內裝修工程材料堆置影響人員通行及
物料搬運、施工便道同時有多輛工程車輛進出等。 
本研究從相關文獻與工程實務中可以歸納出營建工程施工過程中可能影響
空間配置及動線規劃之工程物件，包含建地、建物、人員、設備、物料等五大項，
其說明及範例，如表1 所述。 
表1 五大工程物件 
工程物件 說明 範例 
建
物 
 
我施工之建築物相關構件。 柱、梁、牆、門、窗…等。 
建
地 
 
工區基本空間規劃。 
施工區域、物料存放區、工地道
路…等等。 
人
員 
 
參與工程之相關人員。 工人、監督人員、警衛…等等。 
設
備 
 
完成建物所需之工具、機械
設備等。 
卡車、起重機、吊車、幫浦…等等。 
物
料 
 
施工所需物件。 H型鋼、鋼筋、水泥、模板…等等。 
(3)系統分析與設計 
本研究主要目的即是應用建築資訊模型建置一4D視覺化空間衝突分析模組
來偵測及分析空間衝突問題。系統架構如圖一所示，最底層為建築資訊模型，本
研究希望結合工程相關資訊來協助更精確地進行空間衝突偵測與分析，其包含
3D物件模型、排程之時程資料、工程物件屬性、資源指派資料及本研究所制訂
的工作空間資料模型。第二層為Bentley MicroStation為主要視覺化展示平台。第
表3 空間衝突種類顏色與空間衝突屬性表 
顏色 衝突種類 靜態-靜態 動態-靜態 動態-動態 
 紫色 設計衝突 介面衝突 無 無 
 紅色 安全上衝突 無 無 機具與人員 
 黃色 損壞衝突 無 設備搬運與結構體 無 
 綠色 擁擠 物料與物料 人員與物料 機具與機具 
(4)雛型系統實作 
 靜態工作空間與靜態工作空間衝突模式 
靜態工作空間與靜態工作空間可能發生空間衝突的狀況有設計衝突（例如，
機電設備設計空間不足安裝空間緊靠結構體、管線交疊造成天花板高度不足等）、
擁擠（例如，物料儲存空間太小造成物料堆置重疊、預計放置物料的地點被佔用
等）。圖三(a)呈現的是設計衝突，以紫色顯示在2個藍色靜態工作空間發生衝突
的部份；圖三(b)以擁擠為例，工作空間衝突的部份以綠色顯示。 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
圖三 靜態空間與靜態空間衝突型式展示圖 
 動態工作空間與靜態工作空間衝突模式 
動態工作空間與靜態工作空間可能發生空間衝突的狀況有損壞衝突（例如，
設備搬運動線上的通道或門無法讓設備通過必頇拆除等）、擁擠（例如，室內裝
修工程材料堆置影響人員通行或物料搬運等）。圖四以損壞衝突為例，橘色代表
設備工作空間、藍色代表建物工作空間，設備往建物方向移動，如果設備移動方
向路徑不變，在移動過程中可能會撞上建物，產生損壞衝突，其損壞區域以黃色
顯示。 
 
圖四 動態空間與靜態空間衝突型式展示圖 
五、結果與討論 
工作空間是一種有限資源，在工程建造過程中同一個空間無法同時提供多個
工程物件同時使用，為了提升營建工程生產效率，最有效的方法就是避免工作空
間衝突的發生。本研究之成果已在3D模型環境中建立工作空間動態移動及產生
衝突的基本呈現模式，並分析各工程物件之相關影響因子，開發出4D視覺化空
間衝突分析模組，並於程式中建置空間衝突偵測功能，能夠透過不同顏色的警示
方式來呈現不同衝突之狀況。從模擬成果中可以發現，在3D模型環境中呈現空
間衝突的位置、大小、形狀及狀態具有較為真實的效果，利用視覺化的展示可讓
工程人員能夠迅速瞭解可能發生的狀況，並提供決策上的幫助。本研究期望將此
模組與最佳化數值模型整合，導入最佳化理論產生空間配置及動線規劃之建議方
案，提供最佳化空間配置及動線規劃建議等研究之基礎；並進一步與建築資訊模
型及相關活動資源物件的資訊整合，以建築資訊模型作為空間衝突分析資料建構
及資訊呈現的平台，提供後續最佳化數值模型分析及4D動態模擬的應用，協助
工程人員解決空間配置及動線規劃相關問題。 
七、參考文獻 
[1] Sanders, S.R., Thomas, H.R. and Smith, G.R., 1989, “An analysis of factors 
affecting labor productivity in masonry construction. ＂  PTI # 9003, 
Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA. 
[2] Riley, D. R. and Sanvido, V. E., 1995, “Patterns of Construction-Space Use in 
Multistory Building,” Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, 
ASCE, 121(4), pp. 464-473. 
[3] Akinci, B., Fischer, M., Kunz, J. and Levitt, R., 2002, “Representing Work 
Spaces Generically in Construction Method Models,” Journal of Construction 
Engineering and Management, ASCE, 128(4), pp. 269-305. 
[4]  Akinci, B., Fischer, M., Levitt, R., and Carlson, R., 2002. “Formalization and 
Automation of Time-Space Conflicts Analysis,” Journal of Computing in Civil 
Engineering, 16(2), pp. 124-134. 
[5] 吳俊達，2001，碩士論文，建築工程施工作業空間規劃與衝突分析流程之
研究，國立臺灣大學。 
[6] 紀宛君，2006，碩士論文，大型結構實驗室資源管理輔助系統之研究，國
立臺灣大學。 
[7] 仲闓立，2006，碩士論文，以Space Syntax（空間語法）分析施工要徑空間
特性之研究，國立臺灣大學。 
[8] A.Retik, 1993, Visualization for Decision Making in Construction Planning, 
 1 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期： 100 年 3 月 25日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
International Conference on Construction Applications of Virtual Reality（CONVR）是每
年一次的國際研討會，來自全球各地的學者將針對各種資訊科技及虛擬實境輔助工程的技術，進行
國際性交流與討論。本次第十屆 CONVR研討會由日本宮城大學主辦，日本大阪大學、中央大學，英
國 Teesside 大學協辦。會議地點在日本宮城縣仙台市國際中心。會議舉辦時間為 2010 年 11 月 4
日至 5日。本次會議目的針虛擬實境和增加實境（Augmented Reality, AR）等技術，應用於建築、
工程、施工（AEC）上的各項研究進行交流。會議主題包含混合實境、增加實境在 AEC 的應用；建
築資訊模型（BIM）；模擬與視覺化（Simulation and Visualization）、3D及遊戲引擎（Game Engine）
等。 仙台市是日本東北地方政治和經濟的中心城市。它雖然是一座百萬人口的大都市，卻有著優
美的自然景觀。廣瀨川流經仙台市中心，櫸樹林蔭道鬱鬱蔥蔥。仙台市是一座與自然相協調的現代
化都市，並以此聞名於日本。特別是市區中心的林蔭道和公園綠木繁茂，因而還有“森林之都”之稱。
仙台並擁有 20 多所大學，還有半導體研究所等許多各種先端科技研究所，每年都會有許多大中小
規模的國際會議在此召開。本次研討會便是在擁有正規的國際會議場所的「仙台國際中心」舉辦。
在一個簡單的開幕儀式之後，就馬上進行兩場專題演講，一是 Stanford University 土木與環境
計畫編號 NSC 99 － 2218 － E － 151 － 001 － 
計畫名稱 應用 4D動態模擬於工作空間最佳化配置之研究 
出國人員
姓名 
吳翌禎 
服務機構
及職稱 
高雄應用科技大學 土木工程系 
助理教授 
會議時間 
99年 11月 4日至 99
年 11月 5日 
會議地點 日本 仙台 
會議名稱 International Conference on Construction Applications of Virtual Reality（CONVR） 
發表論文
題目 
4D Workspace Conflict Detection and Analysis System 
 3 
  
Keynote Prof. Nashwan N. Dawood 演講 本人報告情況 
  
Keynote Prof. Kincho H. Law 演講 Keynote Prof. Feniosky Peña-Mora演講 
  
晚宴盛況 晚宴表演活動 
 
 
 
 
10th International Conference on Construction Applications of Virtual Reality, 2010 
1 
4D WORKSPACE CONFLICT DETECTION AND ANALYSIS SYSTEM 
I-Chen Wu, Assistant Professor 
Department of Civil Engineering, National Kaohsiung University of Applied Sciences 
kwu@cc.kuas.edu.tw 
Yen-Chang Chiu, Research Assistant 
Department of Civil Engineering, National Kaohsiung University of Applied Sciences 
chiouyannjang@yahoo.com.tw 
ABSTRACT: Construction activities require a set of adequate workspaces to be executed in a safe and productive 
manner. This research classifies these required workspaces of activity into five categories: building component 
spaces, site layout spaces, people working spaces, equipment spaces and material spaces. All of these spaces 
change and move in three dimensions and across time throughout the construction process. Different activities may 
occasionally interfere with each another whilst working in the same space, causing space conflicts. In order to 
avoid the problem of space conflicts during the construction stage, this research develops a 4D workspace conflict 
detection and analysis system. Our system is implemented on top of Bentley MicroStation which supports both 
visualization of a 3D building model with capabilities for 3D object manipulation and information querying, and 
provides an API (Application Programming Interface) for functionality extensions. In this system, four types of 
space conflict are implemented: design conflict, safety conflict, damage conflict and congestion. Moreover, this 
system provides a visual environment, such as 3D visualization and 4D simulations, to present work space 
utilization of the ongoing project and the conflict status of activities with different colors. In this paper, the design 
and implementation of the 4D workspace conflict detection and analysis system is discussed and sample 
construction example is used to demonstrate the applicability of the system. 
KEYWORDS: 4D, Conflict Detection, Conflict Analysis, Workspace, Construction Management 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Space is regarded as a limited resource on construction sites. This becomes apparent when two or more trades 
are working in the same construction space, potentially interfering with each another, or when the workspace of 
on-site personnel conflict with material stacking space. These kinds of activity space conflicts occur frequently,  
severely affecting the process and efficiency of construction and resulting in productivity loss. Construction 
productivity is thus influenced by a variety of factors. Many researchers have studied the factors that cause loss 
of productivity in construction sites. Kaming et al. (1998) indicated that space conflicts have been identified as a 
one of the major causes of productivity loss in construction. Sanders et al. (1989) reported efficiency losses of up 
to 65% due to congested workspaces and losses up to 58% due to restricted access. Space conflicts can occur in 
many parts of the construction site and in various stages throughout the construction process. Inadequate 
workspace and interference during travel can result in access blockage, congestion, safety hazards, and heighten 
the risk of damaging the end product (Oglesby et al. 1989; Thabet 1992; Tommelein et al. 1992, 1993; Riley and 
Sanvido 1995; Akinci et al. 1998). Various approaches to ameliorate space conflict have been presented to 
address the above-mentioned issues. The approach taken in Guo (2002) focused on space availability due to time 
and scheduling, applying two typical tools, AutoCAD for space planning and MS Project for scheduling, to solve 
space conflicts. In the past decade, 4D simulation (or 4D CAD) technology, which bind 3D models with their 
corresponding construction schedules in their simplest form, has made rapid development in providing engineers 
with an effective tool to manage the coordination complexity of the site, especially in managing conflicts before 
actual construction commences. The rapid emergence of 4D simulation technology is not only driven by the 
rapid advancement of information technology, but also by increasing recognition from the construction industry 
of the benefits of using the 4D CAD applications to increase productivity, improve project coordination, and 
optimize on-site resources. 4D visualization has emerged as an interesting 4D space planning and visualization 
tool. 4D space planning specification and construction work development have been investigated by Riley 
(1998). Akinci et al. (2002a, 2002b, 2002c) also executed similar research which reduces non-value-adding 
activities due to time-space conflicts. A time-space conflict analysis based on a 4D production model was then 
proposed. Mallasi’s research developed an innovative computer-based tool dubbed PECASO (Patterns Execution 
and Critical Analysis of Site-space Organization). There is potential for this system to assist site managers in the 
assignment and identification of workspace conflicts (Mallasi 2004; Dawood and Mallasi 2006). Though much 
10th International Conference on Construction Applications of Virtual Reality, 2010 
3 
In this manner, the workspace assignment for equipment must consider operation clearance and hazards. 
Examples of common equipment are cranes, pumps, temporary facilities, and so on. 
 Material: Construction sites need to provide adequate room to store materials properly and allow safe 
access to them. This kind of workspace assignment must consider protected areas for materials to ensure 
that they will not be destroyed. 
Workspace as defined by this research is shown in formula 1. Each object in the model (building component, site 
layout, labor, equipment and material) has its own space, as well as space needed for operation and safety. This 
research will calculate how much workspace each object needs and assigns it to them for workspace conflict 
detection and analysis. 
2.2 Workspace aggregation 
Construction activities need a set of work spaces to be executed in a safe and productive manner. An example of 
this would be the pouring of concrete into pad foundation which requires a concrete mixer and a concrete vibrator 
to accomplish the task. Sufficient workspace needs to be provided for these two pieces of equipment to be able to 
maneuver safely. Therefore, we must consider workspace aggregation to calculate numerous workspaces at the 
same time to accurately detect and analyze workspace conflict. In this research, workspaces are created using 
Constructive Solid Geometry (CSG), a technique used in solid modeling. CSG allows a user to create a complex 
surface or object by using Boolean operators. The simplest cuboids are used in this research to represent 
workspaces. We classify workspace aggregation into two ways, with the first being the direct combination of 
workspaces. For example, since labor objects and equipment objects need independent spaces to operate and for a 
safety buffer, we can therefore directly combine their workspace cuboids into compound objects using operations 
such as the merger as shown in Fig. 2. Another aggregation is the combination of working objects. For example, 
building components and material objects require no space between each other so we can merge two of these 
objects when they have been installed or assembled, with the workspace for the combined object then recalculated 
and new workspace cuboids created as shown in Fig. 3. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2: Direct combination of workspace cuboids. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3: Combination of working objects. 
2.3 Conflict types 
Project managers need to understand the different types of workspace conflict to develop customized solutions for 
managing them. According to the literature review, we introduced four major types of conflicts into our system as 
follows. 
2.3.1 Design conflict 
Current construction projects are more complex and have more participants involved. When different participants 
design their own separate parts of the building, design conflicts may occur. We can say that a design conflict occurs 
Workspace = Spaceobject+ Spaceoperation+ Spacesafety ……………………….... (1) 
10th International Conference on Construction Applications of Virtual Reality, 2010 
5 
3.2 Conflict Detection and Analysis Module 
This research divided working objects into two categories according to their status: static working objects and 
dynamic working objects. Static working objects include building components, gatherings of people, parked 
equipment and materials stacks. Dynamic working objects include working people and equipment in operation or 
transportation. The simulation and visualization of the different working objects is discussed in the following 
sections. 
3.2.1 Color Schema 
We defined four colors to visualize the workspace conflicts in 3D environment. Table 1 shows the color scheme 
implemented with examples of the kind of working objects that will raise the specific conflict. 
Table 1: Color schema for workspace conflicts. 
Color Conflict Type Static vs. Static Dynamic vs. Static Dynamic vs. Dynamic 
 Purple Design Conflict Design Interference None None 
 Red Safety Hazard None None Equipment vs. Labor 
 Yellow Damage Conflict None Equipment vs. Building None 
 Green Congestion Material vs. Material Labor vs. Material Equipment vs. Equipment 
3.2.2 4D Visualization 
This research provides tools for defining the relationships between the objects in the 3D model and time 
schedule. The system will detect and analyze workspace conflicts between various working objects during 4D 
visualization. 
 Static working object vs. Static working object 
Design or congestion conflicts may occur between two static working objects as shown in Fig. 5. For 
example, design interference between subcontracter and material.  
       
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5: Conflict visualization between two static working objects. 
 Static working object vs. Dynamic working object 
Damage conflict or congestion conflict may arise from interaction between a static working object and a 
dynamic working object. Fig. 6 shows a simple case of equipment being driven to the building component. 
Assuming construction sites are unable to provide enough path space, damage conflict will occur.  
 
Congestion 
Design Conflict 
10th International Conference on Construction Applications of Virtual Reality, 2010 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8: A simple construction site example. 
            
(a)                                   (b) 
       
(c)                                  (d) 
Fig. 9: 4D visualization of conflict detection and analysis. 
5. CONCLUSIONS 
Large numbers of building components, workers, equipment as well as materials share limited space during 
construction. Since space constraints may affect the moving path of resources and productivity, it is essential to 
detect and analyze workspace conflicts in advance, such that the available space can be used more efficiently. 
For this reason, this research develops a 4D workspace conflict detection and analysis system for solving space 
issues in construction sites. In this paper, the 3D CAD system, Bentley MicroStation, was integrated with 
schedule information for the dynamic identification of space conflicts and 4D visualization. The system can 
simultaneously detect and analyze workspace conflicts with various working objects, as well as visually 
representing the location, size, scope and type of workspace conflicts. This will assist project managers in 
quickly grasping the status of an ongoing project, in order to make decisions. In addition, a simple construction 
project example was used in this research to demonstrate the functionality and applicability of the 4D workspace 
 
Path
Building Component
Material
Site Layout
Labor
Equipment
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/03/01
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 應用4D動態模擬於工作空間最佳化配置之研究
計畫主持人: 吳翌禎
計畫編號: 99-2218-E-151-001- 學門領域: 營建管理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
