1 
 
中文摘要 
 
本研究目的是探討顆粒床之過濾及負載特性，利用直徑 71.6 公釐高 70 公釐
之不銹鋼握持器裝載 500 公克單一粒徑分佈直徑分別為 0.3、0.8、2 以及 4 公釐
之氧化鋯顆粒做為顆粒床，以探討顆粒大小及填充形狀對於壓降與微粒穿透之影
響。氧化鋯顆粒床之孔隙度不因使用之顆粒大小而皆固定為 0.48。以掃瞄式電移
動度分徑器以及氣動微粒分徑器分別量測顆粒床上下游之微粒粒數粒徑分佈，表
面風速自每秒 0.58 至 14.8 公分不等，以瞭解流率改變是否會影響測試結果。實
驗結果並與之前研究所得到之經驗式加以比較。微粒負載測試則是以 10 微米之
壓克力粉末來進行，同時與以纖維濾材之負載結果加以比較。 
微粒穿透結果顯示微粒穿透，其微粒穿透率隨著顆粒床顆粒大小增加之迅速
增加。次微米微粒由於在顆粒床過濾介質中停留時間較短故而其穿透率也隨著表
面風速增加而增加。至於微米微粒其微粒穿透率則隨表面風速增加而降低，很明
顯的是受到慣性衝擊作用之影響。如以過濾品質之觀點而言，則所謂『最佳濾材』
之選擇相對複雜。假如使用低表面風速（例如每秒 0.58 公分），則選用大顆粒是
較具經濟效益的因為其過濾品質較佳。此一現象意指使用具有較大表面積之小顆
粒床所增加之過濾效率無法補償所增加之空氣阻抗。在高表面風速下，『最佳濾
材』與所待移除之微粒大小有關，為移除大微粒需要採用小顆粒濾床，至於大顆
濾床則較適於移除小微粒。 
與一般熟知之纖維濾材做比較，顆粒床具有相當不同之負載特性，二者過濾
壓降均隨負載質量增加而增加，然而在纖維濾材部分當形成粉餅之後，粉餅會隨
著繼續負載而壓縮，此時壓降會突然間歇性的降低。相反的，顆粒床粉餅所引起
之壓降隨著時間增加而降低，此以成因可能是因為微粒負載增加後所形成之針孔
效應所造成之洩漏而致而所形成之針孔大小及單位數目則與顆粒床顆粒大小、表
面風速以及測試微粒之大小有關。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
關鍵詞：顆粒床，過濾品質，孔隙度，負載，針孔
Introduction 
    Air filters are commonly used to remove liquid or aerosol particles, from gases. 
Fibrous filters, made of soft pads of fibers, have long been used for protection against 
airborne contaminants, and are popular because of their high porosity (up to 99%), 
and consequent low air resistance. Fiber sizes normally range from less than 1 μm to 
several hundred micrometers. Investigations on aerosol filtration of fibrous filters 
have been extensive (Brown, 1993; Spurny, 1998; Hinds, 1999; Lee, 2001) and are 
too numerous to cite individually. Classical filtration theory begins with an isolated 
fiber, and the collection efficiency of a fiber is defined as the ratio of the inlet height 
of the limiting particle trajectory to the fiber diameter. Modern single fiber theory 
takes into account the effect of adjacent fibers. The theoretical aerosol penetration of a 
particle through a filter is normally expressed in terms of total single fiber efficiency. 
The aerosol filtration mechanisms will be briefly discussed below. 
 
    In addition to fibrous filters, other types of filters include fabric filters, 
membrane filters and granular bed filters. Fabric filters, made from textile fibers 
which are processed into a relatively compacted form by weaving or felting, are 
integral to some of the most popular air pollution control devices in a variety of 
industries today. Membrane filters are made of perforated material or highly 
compacted fibrous material. The porosity of a membrane filter is normally lower than 
85%, and can be in the range of 5-10% for the straight-through pore membrane filters. 
Granular bed filters are frequently used to remove both particulate and gaseous 
pollutants, simultaneously (Tien, 1989). The possibilities of using granular bed filters 
at high temperatures and pressures make this filter type especially attractive when 
specialized applications are needed.  
 
    Unlike broad porosity range of fibrous filter and low porosity of membrane filter, 
granular bed filters are quite constant in porosity, especially when the granule size is 
monodisperse. Another advantage of granular bed filters is their cleanability and 
reusability, which make them ideal for scientific investigations of the effect of 
collector size on the aerosol penetration, pressure drop across filter media, and filter 
quality factors. The reusability of the granules reduces their variability and leads to 
good quality experimental data. The principal goals of this work were to study the 
filtration and loading characteristics of granular bed filters, and to examine the 
relationship between the pressure drop across the filters, during the dusk cake and 
pinhole formation 
 
Filtration mechanisms 
    Similar to single fiber theory applied in fibrous filter (Hinds, 1999), classical 
filtration theory of granular bed filter begins with a collector (sphere). The single 
collector (sphere in this work) efficiency is defined as the ratio of the number of 
aerosol particles captured by a single collector to the number of aerosol particles 
flowing toward the collector in a circular tube of cross-sectional area (Gutfinger and 
Tardos 1979; Tardos, 1997). The total efficiency is an exponential function of the 
filter thickness and can be expressed by the equation (Schmidt et al., 1978; Gal et al., 
1985): 
( ) ⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛= t
b
E
D
L-ε--η 1875.1exp1  
where ε is the porosity of the granular bed filter; L is the thickness of the filter; Db is 
1 
 
to judge the performance of the filter media. The definition of qf is expressed as 
follows: 
p
Pq f Δ
−= ln  
 
Results and Discussion 
    The pressure drop across the granular filter increased linearly with increasing 
face velocity, regardless of the packing uniformity of granular bed, as shown in Figure 
2. This linearity indicates that the air flow through the filter media was laminar. The 
pressure drop measurements had good agreement with the modeled data (Macdonald 
et al., 1979). Under the same face velocity, the pressure drop increased with 
decreasing bead size of granular bed (same mass, same volume, and, therefore, same 
solidity) because air resistance increased with increasing total surface area of granules. 
To simulate different packing uniformity, the granular bed was shaped to form 
trapezoids of different angles, as shown in Figure 3. Under the same face velocity, the 
pressure drop across the granular bed decreased with increasing non-uniformity 
because more air flow passed through thinner portion of the granular bed. 
 
    Aerosol penetration through granular bed filters of different bead sizes is shown 
in Figure 4. With careful calibrations of air flow and aerosol size, the penetration rates 
measured by two aerosol size spectrometers agreed quite well around 0.7 μm, and the 
instruments combined covered sizes ranging from 0.03 up to 10 μm. The aerosol 
penetration increased drastically with increasing granular size, due to the decreasing 
surface area for aerosol deposition. For submicrometer-sized particles, the aerosol 
penetration increased with increasing face velocity due to shorter retention time 
within filter media. For micrometer-sized particles, the aerosol penetration decreased 
with increasing face velocity probably because the inertial impaction became 
dominant, especially with a high face velocity, such as 14.6 cm/sec. The experimental 
data generally had a good agreement with the modeled penetration rate, except in the 
smaller granular size of 0.3 mm where the aerosol penetration of micrometer-sized 
particles was significantly lower than the modeled curve, as shown in the lower left 
plot of Figure 4.  
 
    The effect of granular size and face velocity on the filter quality factor is shown 
in Figure 5. When the face velocity is low, such as 0.58 cm/sec, a large granule filter 
performs better and has higher filter quality factor for all aerosol sizes. In the case of 
high face velocity, the filter performance depends on the size of the particles to be 
removed. For large particles, small granules should be used, as shown in upper-right 
plot of Figure 5. The high filter quality factor is probably due to higher interception. 
For submicrometer-sized aerosols, a large granule filter still performs better than the 
small granule filter. The results implied that the current development toward smaller 
fiber diameter, such as nano-fiber, might not be the right direction. Apparently, the 
gain in filtration efficiency, when using small granules in the granular bed filter, does 
not compensate for the higher air resistance. The lower plot of Figure 5 shows that 
filter quality increased with decreasing face velocity, except for extremely high 
inertial cases, i.e., high face velocity and large particle. The results indicated that, 
whenever possible and feasible, a low face velocity should be used for higher filter 
quality factor. Unfortunately, a low face velocity design normally means more space 
and higher installation costs are required. 
3 
 
 
5 
 
photographs (Figure 11) provide the visual evidence, showing that as the air flow 
increased, not only the size of the pinhole increased, but the number of pinhole also 
increased. 
 
Conclusions and Recommendations 
    The use of a small sized granular medium (such as nano-fiber) may have better 
filtration efficiency due to its larger surface area, but the gain in filtration efficiency 
does not compensate for the increase in air resistance. From the standpoint of filter 
quality, filters made of large granules performs better, especially when the face 
velocity is low. For high face velocity, the filter made of small granules is more 
advantageous in removing micrometer-sized aerosol particles because of the higher 
interception. The “best” filter is dependent on the size of the particles to be removed.  
 
    The pressure drop across the granular bed filter increased linearly with 
increasing face velocity, indicating that air flow through the filter media was laminar 
within the operational range. During aerosol loading test, the formation of pinholes on 
the dust cake of granular bed filters alleviated the increase in pressure drop across the 
granular bed filter. The compression of the dust cake occurring on a fibrous filter 
aggravates the increased pressure drop. The dust cake structure and pinhole formation 
are affected by surface characteristics of the supporting filter media, the size of the 
challenge aerosols, and the face velocity.  
 
    When challenged with aerosol-free air flow, the increase in face velocity forces 
the dust cake to compress, and causes the pressure drop to deviate from the linear 
trend. This deviation increased with the face velocity for fibrous filters. However, for 
granular bed filters, this deviation lessened because of the pinhole formation.  
 
Acknowledgements: 
The authors would like to thank the National Science Council of Taiwan for the 
financial supports through Grant No. NSC 96-2221-E-273-001 
  
References:  
 
Brown, R. C. (1993). Air Filtration: An Integrated Approach to the Theory and 
Applications of Fibrous Filters. Pergamon press, Oxford, 201-206. 
Gal, E., Tardos, G. I. and Pfeffer, R. (1985). A study of inertial effects in granular bed 
filtration. American Institute of Chemical Engineers Journal 31:1093-1104. 
Gutfinger, C. and Tardos, G. I. (1979). Theoretical and experimental investigation on 
granular bed dust filters. Atmospheric Environment 13:853-867. 
Hinds, W. C. (1999). Aerosol Technology. Wiley, New York, 182-205. 
Lee, K. W. (2001). Filter collection, in Aerosol Measurement: Principles, Techniques 
and Applications., P. A. Baron and K. Willeke, eds., Wiley, New York, 197-228. 
Macdonald, I. F., EI-Sayed, M. S., Mow, K. and Dullien, F. A. (1979). Flow through 
porous media-the Ergun equation revisited. American Chemical Society 
18:199-207. 
Pfeffer, R., Tardos, G. I. and Pismen, L. (1981). Capture of aerosols on a sphere in the 
presence of weak electrostatic forces. Industrial & Engineering Chemistry 
Fundamentals 20:168-171. 
Schmidt, E. W., Gieseke, J. A., Gelfand, P., Lugar, T. W. and Frulong, D. A. (1978). 
Filtration theory for granular beds. Journal of the Air Pollution Control 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 
 
 
  
9 
 
  
11 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號   NSC 96-2221-E-273 -001  
計畫名稱  微粒負載對濾毒罐破出曲線之影響 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
 陳志傑（台灣大學公共衛生學院職業醫學與工業衛生研究所 教授） 
會議時間地點 
 September 24-28, Grand Sierra Resort, Reno, Nevada, USA 
 September 20-21 St. Louis, Missouri, USA (Washington University visit) 
會議名稱  AAAR 26th Annual Conference 
發表論文題目 
1. Improvement of Particle-Mediated Gene Transfer Technology 
2. Effects of Fuels on the Characteristics of Exhaust Particles from 4-Stroke 
Motorcycle Engine   
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
    趁參加第 26屆美洲氣膠研討會之便，順道先行參訪密蘇理洲聖路易市華盛頓大學的
Professor Daren Chen (Department of Energy, Environmental and Chemical Engineering)，除
討論預計明年度休假進修的研究方向之外，也嘗試共同申請華盛頓大學麥克唐那基金會
的國際能源與環境專案研究（MAGEE program）。若能成案，且執行後有明顯績效，將再
嘗試延伸為國科會國際合作。Daren Chen教授畢業於 University of Minnesota非常著名的 
Particle Technology Laboratory，此實驗室是氣膠研究人員的朝聖之地，Daren Chen教授在
國際氣膠研究界屢獲各種獎勵，包括美國 AAAR的 Friedlander Award與歐洲 EAC的
Smolouchoski Award，被譽為是正在升起的華人之光，其在氣膠電學方面的研究非常獨
到，有其過人之處，本人構思中的出國研究即以氣膠靜電特性為研究主軸，若能獲得 Daren 
Chen教授的協助，相信有更高成功的機會。目前 Daren Chen教授實驗室正進行的計畫除
與靜電相關者之外，另正嘗試進入磁微粒的特性研究，同時也構思如何與生物醫學相結
合，是非常令人期待的全新研究領域。 
 
    因為華盛頓大學的參訪行程，所以往年均循例參加的 AAAR會前進修課程，無法參
與，有點可惜，因為部分進修課程除資料整理嚴謹，且內容均為最新研究成果的彙整，
對本人研究所教材更新很大的助益！今年度大會安排每天早上的邀請演講相當精采，分
別是：星期二由 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)的 Daniel Murphy
主講 Single Particle Analysis All the Way up to the Stratosphere，將同溫層懸浮微粒形成
的機制作了完整的說明，也特別強調調查研究不足的地區有需要國際間進一步合作與怒
力，星期三則是由加州 Nektar Therapeutics John Patton的演講 Inhaled Insulin and the 
Marvelous New Innovations in Aerosol Medicines，此議題與本人實驗室刻正進行的研究
計畫『呼吸系統溦粒沈積與藥物輸送系統研發』有密切關連，獲益匪淺，將對研究方向
稍做調整，將低失敗風險，也增進後續的市場價值與潛力。星期四則是 University of 
