across the GDL ranges from approximately 2~5°C, 
depending on the operating conditions, such as 
working current. 
 
英文關鍵詞： fuel cell, temperature, model, thermistor 
 
 1
 
摘要 
  水管理和熱管理是研究燃料電池的重要議題，而且都與溫度有關。因為化學反應是發生在觸媒層，
因此我們相了解觸媒層的反應溫度。然而，量測燃料電池內部的反應溫度不是容易的實驗，因為要進
行這種量測實驗，需要將燃料電池依需求改製，而其操作條件也因此受影響。大部分以嵌入溫度感測
器的燃料電池因為其工作環境被干擾而使得其性能降低。 
  為了量測儘可能靠近觸媒層的溫度且儘量減少對燃料電池工作環境的干擾，本研究將微小型之熱
敏電阻安裝在流道之肋條處並與氣體擴散層接觸。陰、陽極分別安裝三支熱敏電阻在入口處，流道中
間及出口處以觀測其溫度延流道之變化情形。本研究以熱力學第一定律建立了數學模型並結合實驗結
果以推估觸媒層之反應溫度。 
  研究結果顯示，燃料電池陰極中央量測到的溫度最高；而根據數學模型計算結果，反應層的溫度
比氣體擴散層的溫度略高 2~5 °C。 
 
關鍵詞：燃料電池、溫度、模型、熱敏電阻 
 
Abstract 
 
Water and heat managements are related to the temperature within a PEMFC. Since chemical reaction 
occurs at the catalyst layer, it is the temperature of the catalyst layer we desire to investigate. However, 
measuring the internal temperature of a PEMFC is not an easy task because the cell is usually modified and 
the operating condition is interfered. Most embedded sensors interfered the working environment of fuel cells 
and resulting in lower performance of fuel cells. 
In order to measure the temperature as close to the catalyst layer as possible and interfere operating 
environment as less as possible, in this study, miniature thermistors are chosen and embedded in the land 
areas and in contact with the gas diffusion layers (GDLs). Three thermistors are placed close to the inlet, 
midway, and outlet of the flow channel to capture the temperature variation along flow direction. In order to 
estimate the temperature at the catalyst layer, the first law of thermodynamics was employed accompanying 
operating conditions and measured data. 
The results show the temperature difference across the GDL ranges from approximately 2~5°C, 
depending on the operating conditions, such as working current. 
 
 
Keywords: fuel cell, temperature, model, thermistor 
 3
3.1 Fuel cell design 
    A single cell with an active area of 50 cm2 was designed in this experiment. The MEA consists of Nafion 
XL membrane, carbon papers, and catalyst loading of 0.2 and 0.4 mg Pt cm-2 on the anode and cathode, 
respectively. The flow field plates are made of graphite. Both anode and cathode flow fields have two parallel 
serpentine flow channels, as shown in Fig. 1(a). Anode gas and cathode gas are fed in a partial counter-flow 
direction, in which the cathode inlet is on the upper left, while the anode inlet is on the upper right. The 
channel depth, width, and rib width are 1.0, 1.0, and 0.9 mm, respectively. 
In order to measure the surface temperature of GDLs within minimum disturbance, micro-thermistors 
(10K3MCD1, Measurement Specialties, USA) with a probe diameter of 0.5 mm, shown in Fig. 1(b), were 
embedded in the rib areas and in contact with the GDLs, shown as Fig. 1(c). On both anode and cathode sides, 
three thermistors are placed close to the inlet, midway, and outlet of the flow channel to capture the 
temperature variation along flow direction, shown as Fig. 1(a). 
 
    (a)                           (b)                            (c) 
                
Fig. 1 (a) The flow field pattern is parallel serpentine; (b) a picture of a micro-thermistor used in this study; (c) 
schematic of sensor embedment. 
 
3.2 Measurement system 
Figure 2 shows the experimental setup for fuel cell operation and temperature measurement. In order to 
capture temperature variations with respect to operating conditions, the single cell was operated without 
external heating devices and thermally insulated except signal leads and gas tubes. The temperature values at 
selected positions within the single cell were converted from the embedded micro-thermistors’ resistance data 
acquired by a data acquisition module (NI 9219, National Instruments, USA) and processed with Labview 
software. 
       (a)                                   (b)  
     
Fig 2. (a) Experimental setup of the single cell embedded with six micro-thermiors; (b) The single cell is 
thermally insulated. 
 5
Based on the load current and operating conditions, the molar flow rates of inflow hydrogen and oxygen 
is determined from 
 
2
cell cell
H ,in an2
i An
F
  (1) 
 
2
cell cell
O ,in ca4
i An
F
  (2) 
where n  is the molar flow rate in mol/s, celli is the current density in A/cm2, cellA  is the active area in cm2, 
an  and ca are stoichiometry of the anode and cathode, respectively, and F is the Faraday constant. 
    When air is supplied instead of pure oxygen, the nitrogen molar flow rate is calculated from  
 2
2 2
2
,in O ,in
1 O
N
O
y
n n
y
   (3) 
where 
2O
y  is the molar fraction of oxygen in the air and is equal to 0.21 in this study. 
    When the supplied gas is humidified by bubbling through a water tank at a temperate of tankT , the inlet 
water molar flow rates at the anode and cathode can be respectively determined from  
 
2
v,sat an,tank
an,w,in H ,in
an v,sat an,tank
( )
( )
p T
n n
p p T
    (4) 
  2 2v,sat ca,tankca,w,in O ,in N ,in
ca v,sat ca,tank
( )
( )
p T
n n n
p p T
     (5) 
where v,satp  is the saturated vapor pressure, which is a function of temperature. The value of v,satp  is 
determined from the equation provided by Wanger and Pruss [17].  
    When operating a single cell at selected current density, the temperatures of water tanks for 
humidification and stoichiometric values of the anode and cathode are controlled by a test station. According 
to Equations (1) to (5), the molar flow rates of inflow gases can be determined. 
    The single cell in this study is modeled as five control volumes: anode channel, cathode channel, anode 
GDL, cathode GDL, and membrane, as shown in Fig. 1. To describe the electrochemical reaction in the single 
cell, principles of mass balance and energy rate balance are employed in each control volumes. The model in 
each control volume will be described in the following sections. 
 
4.1. Anode/cathode channel model 
The channel model describes the gas flow behavior in the anode and cathode, respectively. Based on the 
operating current density of a single cell, the amount of consumed reactants in it can be determined by 
 
2
cell cell
H ,react 2
i An
F
  (6) 
 
2
cell cell
O ,react 4
i An
F
  (7) 
Applying the mass balances to the anode and cathode channels gives: 
 
2 2 2H ,out H ,in H ,react
n n n     (8) 
 
2 2 2O ,out O ,in O ,react
n n n     (9) 
 7
is the reaction temperature to be estimated by this model.  
To solve Equation (16), the one value of an,reactQ  and  ca,reactQ  and one value of an,w,reactn  and ca,w,reactn  
need to be known first. However, since the states of gases at the outlet of single are fixed based on known 
temperature, water transport rates to the anode and cathode can be determined if heat transfer to the anode or 
cathode is known. According to Fourier’s law of heat conduction, heat transfer across the GDL is proportional 
to the temperature gradient of through plane direction Q T 
 
or 
 an,react react an,GDL
ca,react react ca,GDL
Q T T
Q T T
 

  (17) 
The sum of an,reactQ  and  ca,reactQ  is the heat generation reactQ , due to chemical reaction; then, the heat 
transfer to the anode and cathode can be expressed as   
 react an,GDLan,react react
react an,GDL ca,GDL2
T T
Q Q
T T T
  
   (18) 
 react ca,GDLca,react react
react an,GDL ca,GDL2
T T
Q Q
T T T
  
   (19) 
    
4.4. Solution procedure 
    This model is implemented by using Matlab. When a constant current load celli  is applied to the single 
cell accompanying pre-set stoichiometric values of the anode and cathode, respectively, the cell voltage cellV , 
temperature values at the GDLs an,inT , an,GDLT , ca,outT , ca,inT , ca,GDLT , and ca,outT  are measured. These values 
are the input parameters of this model, and the output value is the reaction temperature reactT  
 
5. Results and Discussion 
5.1. Experimental results 
 Figure 4 shows the performance curve of the single cell operated at the condition described in the section 
3.1.3. Since both the hydrogen and air flow through humidifier at room temperature and the cell was not 
heated, the cell performance is lower than when the cell is operated at normal condition. However, the aim of 
this study is to investigate the reaction temperature at the catalyst layer. 
 
 
Fig. 4. Performance curve of the single cell 
 
Figure 5 shows the measured temperature data of the single cell operated at different operating currents. 
 9
Table 1 modeling results using measured data from experiments 
Case I II III IV 
Current (A) 5 10 14 18 
Cell Voltage (V) 0.65 0.58 0.51 0.45 
Room temperature (℃) 27 27 27 27 
Tan, mid (℃) 34.9 49.2 59 60 
Tan, out (℃) 35.8 50.9 61 61.6 
Tca, mid (℃) 36.1 51.2 61.5 62.5 
Tca, out (℃) 36.0 51.1 61.2 62.2 
Modeling Treact (℃) 38.1 53.3 65.1 67.4 
 
5. Conclusion 
In order to investigate the reaction temperature at the catalyst layer, a single cell embedded with six 
micro-thermistor was operated at different conditions. Besides, a mathematical model was developed using 
the first law of thermodynamics to determine the reaction temperature according to the working condition and 
measured data. The following conclusions can be drawn from this study. 
(1) The experimental data shows that the cathode side has higher temperature than the anode side, and the 
highest temperature is measured at the center part of the cathode side. 
(2) The experimental results also suggest as the working current increases, the temperature difference between 
the anode and the cathode increases. In addition, the temperature variation along the flow direction also 
increases with increasing working current. 
(3) The modeling results show the temperature difference across the GDL ranges from approximately 2~5°C, 
depending on the operating conditions. 
 
 
 
 
 1
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                日期： 101  年 10  月 30 日 
計畫編號 NSC100－2218－E－194－003－ 
計畫名稱 模擬質子交換膜燃料電池之溫度分佈 
出國人員
姓名 陳永松 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立中正大學機械工程學系 
助理教授 
會議時間 
100 年 10 月 31 
日至 
100 年 11 月 5 日 
會議地點 美國佛羅里達州奧蘭多市 
會議名稱 
(中文)2011 年燃料電池國際研討展示會 
(英文)2011 FUEL CELL SEMINAR & EXPOSITION 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)氣冷式燃料電池之模電極組之設計 
(英文)Design of Membrane Electrode Assembly for Air-cooled PEMFCs 
附件四 
 3
一、參加會議經過 
本年度參加的 2011 燃料電池研討展示會每年在美國各城市輪流舉行，今年在佛羅理達州的奧
蘭多市(Orlando, Florida)的 Swan & Dolphin 休閒中心舉行。今年議程共四天，總共約 120 篇口頭論
文發表及 120 篇海報發表。40 多家相關廠商展示其與燃料電池之相關產品。 
   
圖 1: Swan & Dolphin Resort in Orlando, FL 及研討展示會場 
 
    行程第一天安排至佛羅理達太陽能研究中心（Florida Solar Energy Center, FSEC）參觀。第二
天至第四天都有全體會議，緊接著是口頭論文及研究現況之發表，同時也開放論文之海報發表參觀
及參展廠商之產品展示。 
口頭發表之議程在同時段分四個場次同時進行，議程類別包含質子交換膜燃料電池元件發展與
示範運行、小型燃料電池備用電源展示、固態氧化物燃料電池展示與電池堆發展、燃料電池模擬、
軍用產品、高溫燃料電池、質子交換膜燃料電池用之雙極板、燃料電池/二次電池混合電力系統、
高溫材料、商業化產品、燃料處理方式、質子交換膜劣化、氫氣生產、處理、運送、小型燃料電池
汽車發展等主題。由於本研究室正積極開發質子交換膜燃料電池及混合電力系統，故主要參加與這
兩個議題相關的研討會，無法兼顧其他議程。  
 
本次參加 2011 年燃料電池國際研討會展示會日程表如下所示： 
日 期 星期 工作項目 
100.10.30  日  去程  
100.10.31  一  1. 2011年燃料電池國際研討會展示會報到註冊。  
2. 參觀Florida Solar Energy Center  
100.11.1  二  1. 上午參加開幕式全體討論會。 
2. 張貼本次發表論文之海報，主題為氣冷式燃料電池之
膜電極組Design of Membrane Electrode Assembly for 
Air-cooled PEMFCs.與參觀研究學者討論發表之論文
內容。 
3. 下午參加六場質子交換膜燃料電池研討會。 
 5
博士介紹氫氣在能源的挑戰。德國的能源政策是在 2020 年使用 35% 之再生能源，2050 為 80%。
其中關鍵是降低運輸能源的消耗。目前德國的燃料電池汽車在各城市試運行，推廣，使大眾可接觸。
燃料電池在船隻試行，機場搬運。氫氣在再生能源中是扮演儲能之角色，以克服再在生能受天候影
響之不穩定性。而加氫站在設置的前五年是無法賺錢，需與政府合作及配合。 
  德國 Project Management Juelich 公司的 Matthias Laske, 報告德國的燃料電池發展。他們預期
燃料電池商業化的市場由現在的露營用具(DMFC)關始，然後推廣到備用電源系統(PEM)；在
2012-2013 會推廣到住宅電源(HT-PEM, SOFC, PEM)；在 2014 年則開始導入燃料電池電動車
(PEM)。目前的挑戰主要是：1.可靠度；2. 成本；3.效率；4.氫氣供應；5.燃料中的硫。 
 
2. 口頭論文發表 
本次研討會的口頭發表多著重在系統之示範運行，包含電動車及各種應用產品之測試實例。在
系統方面，則因應各種應用情形而朝用簡單化方向發展；零組件方面則較多偏向於金屬雙極板表面
抗腐蝕處理；燃料處理方面則以重組器為多；此外，在基本研究方面則以膜電極組性能為主，包含
劣化、電流分佈情形等。 
在系統方面有 NASA 及 Naval Sea Systems Command (NAVSEA)合作開發的無人水下載具
(Unmanned Underwater Vehicle, UUV)。在此開發計畫中，為了減低動力系統的重量，研究方向朝向
系統簡單化，開發 Non-flow through 的電池堆及使用被動式氫氣回數原元；為了增加系統體積的能
量密度，則採用硼氫化鈉之化學儲氫方式，並以過氧化氫來提供反應所需的氧氣，如圖 2 所示。 
 
 
圖 2: NASA 等研究單位合作開發的無人水下載具動力系統 
 
  在混合動力系統方面，有一印度的 TVS motor company 報告其開發的 5kW 三輪電動車，如圖
3 所示。其燃料電池功率為 3kW，二次電池功率為 2kW，作為提供瞬間電流變化之電力來源。二
 7
  
圖 4: TOYOTA 公司展示之燃料電池電動汽車 
 
  在加氫站及電池堆方面有加拿大的 Hydrogenics 公司展示之產品。圖 5 為加氫機。圖 6 為新型
之 30kW 燃料電池堆。Hydrogenics 公司推出之新型電池堆在體積功率密度方面有顯著提昇，這電
池堆仍是以備用電源為主，Hydrogenics 公司仍是將燃料電池堆搭配週邊系統組成一模組後銷售。 
 
 
圖 5: Hydrogenics 公司展示之加氫機 
 
 
圖 6: Hydrogenics 公司展示之 30kW 燃料電池堆 
 
 9
 
圖 9: SANDVIK 公司展示的金屬雙極板 
 
  此外有一 Kettering University 展示大學部的學生專題研究成果，混合電力系統電動車，如圖 10
所示。其燃料電池是採用 SOFC 及搭配一超高電容。據學生說暖機到可以行駛需花約一個小時的時
間。雖然實用性不高，但有助於學生了解燃料電池原理、混合電力系統、電動車實作技術等。 
 
   
圖 10: Kettering University 展示大學部的燃料電池電動車 
 
 
三、考察參觀活動(佛羅理達州太陽能研究中心) 
  FSEC 不只有太陽能相關研究，還包含能源效率、氫能燃料電池、生質能源等相關之研究。FSEC
不只是一個研究中心，也有推廣能源相關教育，當地中小學經常會至 FSEC 進行校外教學。在 FSEC
設施中，其中最讓人印象深刻的是一些能源效率量測之實體屋及 FSEC 在一些居民家中安裝各種感
測器，全天候記錄及分析能源之使用情形，並比較各種改善工程後之能源提昇程度。參觀完 FSEC
後，再到 Space Coast Next Generation Solar Energy Center 參觀 Power & Light 公司的太陽能發電
場，其發電能力約有 10MW。Florida 州政府致力將本州打造成一能源輸出州，以降低對石化能源
的依賴度並增加本州之工作機會。 

1 
 
Design of Membrane Electrode Assembly for Air-cooled PEMFCs 
 
Jiunn-Yih Leea, Yong-Song Chenb*, Biing-Jyh Wenga 
a Materials& Electro-Optics Research Division, Chung-Shan Institute of Science & Technology, Taoyuan, 
Taiwan 
b Advanced Institute of Manufacturing for High-tech Innovations and Department of Mechanical Engineering, 
National Chung Cheng University, Chiayi, Taiwan 
 
Abstract 
    This study provides a preliminary analysis of designing a membrane electrode assembly (MEA) for an 
air-cooled proton exchange membrane fuel cell (PEMFC). To achieve evenly distributed current density 
within the active area, a non-uniform catalyst loading is desired for the MEA. Two MEAs with different Pt 
loadings were prepared and tested under different operating conditions, which are similar to the environments 
near the cathode inlet and outlet. A specially customized gas with low oxygen concentration was also fed to 
the single cell to study its effect on the cell performance. In addition, the effect of humidifier temperature on 
the MEA with different cathode catalyst loadings was also discussed in this study. 
 
Keywords: PEMFC, catalyst, current density 
 
1. Introduction  
PEMFCs are regarded as potential alternative power sources because of their high efficiency and clean 
emission. According to their cooling method, there are mainly two types of PEMFC systems: water-cooled 
and air-cooled. The water-cooled system requires a radiator, a reservoir, and a liquid pump, which are not 
installed in an air-cooled system. Thus, an air-cooled PEMFC system may be a better choice for the power 
requirement less than 5 kW because of the simple system design.  
ReliOn had designed an air-cooled PEMFC power system, which incorporates multiple power modules 
[1, 2]. The cartridge design makes power capacity scalable from 0.6 kW to 2 kW. Ballard, a leading PEMFC 
manufacturer, introduced their air-cooled fuel cell stack, Mark1020 ACS with an open cathode channel design. 
The power output of one single stack is scalable from 0.3 kW to 3.4 kW depending on the cell number [3]. 
Considering the factor that the generated heat of a working PEMFC can be as much as the power output [4], 
the supplied air should be capable of removing the heat. That can be achieved by selecting fans which deliver 
high air flow or choosing appropriate stack design.  
Since the specific heat capacity and density of the air are smaller than those of water, an air-cooled 
system requires higher volume flow rate of air to dissipate the same amount of heat when compared with a 
water-cooled system. As a result, a fuel cell with a rectangular active area may be a suitable design for an 
air-cooled system. Sohn et al. [5] designed air-cooled PEMFC systems with a rectangular active area and 
conducted experiments to study the operating conditions for portable applications. They suggested an optimal 
operating condition in the 60% range of relative humidity for their stacks. However, precisely controlling the 
relative humidity requires additional humidifiers and control devices, which increases the system volume and 
cost. In the case where humidifiers are not designed in an air-cooled PEMFC system, a stack can work under 
low relative humidity environment is needed.  
When a fuel cell with a rectangular active area works without a humidifier, we can imagine that the inlet 
area is usually under an environment of dry and high gas flow rate. The MEA suffers from this condition will 
result in low working efficiency and short durability. In order to improve the performance of the MEA near 
the inlet, it is reasonable to increase the catalyst loading of the MEA to enhance the electrochemical reaction; 
thus, more liquid water are generated to hydrate the membrane and increase its conductivity. On the contrary, 
the MEA near the outlet works in a humid and lower gas flow rate condition. It is possible to reduce platinum 
loading in the MEA without decreasing much power output. 
Accordingly, we design a novel MEA with non-uniform catalyst loading for air-cooled PEMFCs. In the 
MEA, the catalyst loading is decreased from the cathode inlet area toward the outlet area. Prasanna et al. [6] 
prepared MEAs with a non-uniform platinum distribution. The platinum loading in increased from the inlet to 
the outlet area to compensate the depletion of oxygen in the air flow. They claimed the average platinum 
loading can be reduced without losing performance; however, their MEAs were tested under humidified 
conditions, which may not be applicable to practical working conditions. Besides, the stoichiometry values of 
3 
 
During the activation process, pure hydrogen and air were fed to the anode and the cathode after passing 
through humidifiers controlled at a temperature of 65 °C. The cell temperature was 65 °C. Each MEA was 
controlled at a constant voltage of 0.4 V for 5 hours before performance measurement was conducted. 
According to the analysis for the long rectangular MEA in the introduction section, the cathode gas flow 
conditions for the first and last segments are quite different. Thus, in this study the MEAs with the catalyst 
loadings of 0.6 and 0.2 mg Pt cm-2 are compared under the similar flow conditions of the first and last 
segments, respectively. The test conditions are summarized as Table 1. 
 
Table 1. Test conditions for MEAs with different catalyst loadings. 
Test conditions A B C D 
Anode/Cathode 
 Pt loadings (mg cm-2) 
0.2/0.6 0.2/0.2 
Cathode oxygen 
concentration (%) 
20% 
(from the air) 
14% O2, 86% N2 
(Customized) 
Anode/Cathode humidifier 
temperature (°C) 
65/65 65/23 65/65 65/25 
Cell temperature (°C) 65 65 
 
The I-V curves of MEAs operated at the conditions were recorded by an electronic load (Model 850e, 
Scribner Associate) and then compared. 
 
3. Results and discussions  
    In this study, the effect of catalyst loading on the performance of MEAs near the cathode inlet and 
outlet was evaluated. To achieve this, two sets of experiments were conducted. In the first experiment, 
the cathode Pt loading of MEA was increased to 0.6 mg cm-2 and the inlet gas is not humidified. For the 
other experiment, the cathode Pt loading was decreased to 0.2 and the oxygen concentration of the 
cathode gas is controlled at 14% by pre-mixing with nitrogen and was fully humidified. 
    Figures 2(a) and 2(b) show the I-V curves of test conditions A and B, respectively. The MEA 
operated at a cathode humidifier temperature of 65 °C shows higher performance than that of 23 °C. It is 
reasonable because the membrane is hydrated by fully humidified gas.  
 
(a)                             (b) 
      
Figure 2: Measured I-V curves of the MEA with cathode Pt loading of 0.6 mg cm-2 at different test conditions. 
(a) anode/cathode humidifier temperate: 65/65 °C in the test condition A; (b) anode/cathode humidifier 
temperate: 65/23 °C in the test condition B. 
 
    Figure 3 shows the performance of MEA with cathode Pt loading of 0.2 mg cm-2 tested by specially 
mixed cathode gas. Since oxygen is gradually consumed along the flow channel, the oxygen concentration 
near the outlet is theoretically around 14.5%. Figures. 3(a) and 3(b) show that when the cathode gas is fully 
humidified, the cell performance is higher in the ohmic overpotential area, which is around 500 mA cm-2 in 
the figure. However, in the concentration overpotential area, the performance of that test condition shows 
lower cell performance. The possible reason is the huge amount of liquid water generated at high current 
density plus more water vapor in the cathode gas, hindering oxygen from accessing the activation sites on the 
catalyst surface. 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/09/05
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 模擬質子交換膜燃料電池之溫度分佈
計畫主持人: 陳永松
計畫編號: 100-2218-E-194-003- 學門領域: 能源科技
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
