    
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■成果報告   □期中進度報告 
 
高科技產業技術規畫之穩健決策模式研究(II) 
A Robust Decision Methodology for Technology Planning in 
High-Tech Industries (II) 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC－2221－E－005－072 
執行期間：100 年 8 月 1日 至 101 年 7 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立中興大學科技管理研究所 
 
計畫主持人：王瑞德 博士 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：汪政億、莊宗霖、鄭全宏、曾啟華 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年■二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國 101 年 9 月 30 日 
  
2 
 
appropriate technologies for providing their products or services with a competitive edge. 
Technology planning is the process of knowledge acquisition, which can be later used in the design 
of new products to meet market needs (Bone and Saxon 2000). It will result in an actionable plan to 
leverage new and existing technologies, consistent with business strategies and customer needs. 
However, with the increasing complexity of technologies, abundance of technological options, and 
higher cost of technological development, and globalized dispersion of technology sources, 
managing technology assets has becoming more difficult for high-tech firms (Daim and Oliver). 
Although importance of technology planning is understood, most industrial decisions on 
technology choices is either based on group discussion or is supported by some strategic planning 
tools (e.g., technology roadmapping) (Petrick and Echols 2004). It is still lack of effective tools to 
identify, assess, select, and exploit emerging technologies (Salo et al. 2003, Gerdsri and Kocaoglu 
2007, Chen et al. 2009). The assessment of innovative technologies involves great uncertainties, 
such as technology, market, environmental regulation, demand and supply, etc. Since the trends of 
technology and market cannot be anticipated accurately, forecasts are typically quite different from 
what actually occurs. This leads to the facts that information required for technology assessment is 
either unavailable or unreliable at the early stage of technology planning. 
From above identified difficulties, it is required to develop decision-aid methodologies to help 
decision makers assess and select appropriate technologies for a high-tech firm to respond to 
uncertain business environment. In addition, under the fast changing environment in business and 
technology development, technology planning should have dynamic and flexible planning features 
that allow the firm to reassess and adjust technology plans in a timely manner according to the 
impacts of the changes. 
Several technology planning approaches have been developed in the literature (Heidenberger 
and Stummer 1999, Petrick and Echols 2004, Tran and Daim 2008). We can divide those studies 
into three categories: strategic management methods, benefit measurement methods, and decision 
analysis approaches. Technology roadmapping (Farrukh et al. 2003, Phaal et al. 2004) is the most 
popular strategic technology planning tool that has been widely applied in many industries. 
However, the technology planning decisions (e.g., technology selection, timing for 
commercialization) are usually made by a group of experts or experienced technology managers. 
There is a lack of decision-aid tools to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of decision making 
4 
 
(hereafter ECC) is used to illustrate the proposed methodology. 
 
 
2. Methodology  
The proposed framework that integrates scenario analysis, real options concept, and linguistic 
decision analysis, consists of the following five steps: 
Step 1: Frame the issue 
The clear purpose and focus should be defined at the beginning, so the precise scenario 
analysis process can be performed and the desired outcomes of the process can be achieved. 
Defining issues to be explored, time horizon/frame, activities included, etc. are preferably involved 
in detailed definition. Precise definition of the issue will help to stay focused on the core topic thus 
the scenario planning process will more likely provide expected results. 
Step 2: Identify stakeholders 
Identify those individuals who can provide different perspectives and deep insights. The 
participants should involve individuals within the firm who are highly related to the issues being 
explored, including those individuals whose interests will be affected and who has unique expertise 
related to the studied issues. However, the participant is not limited only to firm’s employees. 
Sometimes, external experts (customers, suppliers, government organizations, scholars, etc.) may 
bring useful information. In addition, it is important to build the atmosphere of openness for 
dialogue that will encourage participants to articulate their insights. 
Step 3: Perform scenario analysis 
This step applies scenario analysis to identify possible future scenarios and strategic 
investment options. Scenario analysis is built around the focal issues identified in step 1. The scope 
and timeframe for choices and concerns should be clearly identified. Driving forces including 
predetermined trends and uncertainties that are likely to affect the key focal issue should be 
identified. The different futures or scenarios are built based on critical driving forces. The different 
strategic options can be identified to capture future opportunities regarding different scenarios. The 
stakeholders are able to contribute to scenario analysis from different perspectives based on their 
experiences and brainstorming.  
6 
 
f1: crude oil price increases  
f2: ICE significant technological improvements  
f3: emission regulations tightening  
f4: battery development and infrastructure breakthrough  
f5: increase in bio fuel production and distribution  
f6: increase in customers' concerns about environment  
Since ECC is not a leading company, like Toyota, Benz, etc., in the auto industry, the company only 
can follow the potential dominant design of propulsion system in the future. 
Through industrial interviews and the collected second-hand data, three main possible 
scenarios till 2020/2025 were identified as follows (see Figure 1): 
Scenario I – Internal combustion engine (ICE): the ICE will be widely combined with 
electric propulsion leading to the diffusion range of HV, and by 2025 the ICE will still 
be the dominant design followed by HV (see Figure 2).  
Scenario II – Biofuel vehicle: the ICE will slowly be switching from petrol/diesel to 
bio fuels. ICE will be still used as the main propulsion system with slight modification 
allowing the usage of pure biofuels. The market share can be estimated following Brazil 
as a case where the market share of bio fuels is over 80%. (see Figure 3) 
Scenario III – Hybrid vehicle: This scenario counts with the hybridization of internal 
combustion engine using petrol or diesel to be dominant design by 2025 (see Figure 4).  
 
 
Figure 1. Likelihood of technologies to be a dominant design 
8 
 
ratings for identified scenarios and decision sequence. In other words, decision makers intended to 
evaluate a candidate project that can satisfies most scenarios and most outcomes of management 
actions that may be taken. According to the result shown in Table 4, the ICE and HV projects were 
recommended, because both investment options have higher managerial flexibility to switch to 
different types of emerging technologies if there is any signal that any of them will become a 
dominant technology. If decision maker was more optimistic, then the quantifier-guided function 
“at least half” could be used and the ICE project was recommended. Please refer to the working 
paper for detailed discussion (Wang 2012). 
 
 
Figure 5. Possible ICE project paths 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Possible BIO project paths 
 
 
 
Figure 7. Possible HV project paths 
 
10 
 
Table 4. Solution sets for different quantifier-guided function 
Quantifier “At least half” “Most” 
“More than 
70%” 
ICE (VL, -0.27) (M, 0.43) (VL, 0.3) 
Biofuel (L, 0.4) (L, 0.4) (L, 0) 
HV (L, 0.47) (M, -0.2) (L, 0) 
Solution 
set {ICE} 
{ICE, 
HV} {Bio, HV} 
 
4. Self-Evaluation 
 
The contribution of this research is three-folds. The proposed technology planning framework 
provides a systematic process that would help decision makers establish a robust technology plan to 
explore upside market opportunity, while avoiding downside risks. In addition, the proposed 
qualitative real options model would resolve the limitations of real options analysis which is 
quantitative-oriented and would be more applicable in the situation where the quantitative 
information is not available or unreliable. Finally, to the best of our knowledge, few studies have 
developed the qualitative real options approach. This research initiates a new research direction that 
would contribute to the literature of real options analysis. The final manuscript will be submitted to 
an international journal for publication. 
二、參考文獻 
1. Angelou, G. N. and Economides, A. A. (2008). "A decision analysis framework for prioritizing a 
portfolio of ict infrastructure projects." IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management 55(3): 
479-495. 
2. Boer, F. P. (1998). "Traps, pitfalls and snares in the valuation of technology." 
Research-Technology Management 41(5): 45-54. 
3. Bone, S. and Saxon, T. (2000). "Developing effective technology strategies." Research & 
Technology Management 43(4): 50-58. 
4. Chang-Kyo, S., Eui-Ho, S. and Kwang-Churn, B. (1994). "Prioritizing telecommunications 
technologies for long-range R&D planning to the year 2006." IEEE Transactions on Engineering 
Management 41(3): 264-275. 
5. Chen, H., Ho, J. C. and Kocaoglu, D. F. (2009). "A strategic technology planning framework: A 
case of Taiwan's semiconductor foundry industry." IEEE Transactions on Engineering 
Management 56(1): 4 - 15. 
6. Daim, T. U. and Oliver, T. (2008). "Implementing technology roadmap process in the energy 
services sector: A case study of a government agency." Technological Forecasting and Social 
Change 75(5): 687-720. 
7. Farrukh, C., Phaal, R. and Probert, D. (2003). "Technology roadmapping: Linking technology 
resources into business planning." International Journal of Technology Management 26(1): 2-19. 
8. Gerdsri, N. and Kocaoglu, D. F. (2007). "Applying the analytic hierarchy process (AHP) to build 
a strategic framework for technology roadmapping." Mathematical & Computer Modelling 
46(7/8): 1071-1080. 
9. Heidenberger, K. and Stummer, C. (1999). "Research and development project selection and 
resource allocation- a review of quantitative modelling approaches." International Journal of 
Management Review 1(2): 197-224. 
10. Herrera, F. and Martínez, L. (2000). "A 2-tuple fuzzy linguistic representation model for 
computing with words." IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems 8(6): 746-752. 
11. Kim, K., Park, K. and Seo, S. (1997). "A matrix approach for telecommunications technology 
selection." Computers & Industrial Engineering 33(3-4): 833-836. 
12. McGrath, R. G. and MacMillan, I. C. (2000). "Assessing technology projects using real options 
reasoning." Research Technology Management 43(4): 35-49. 
1 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：101 年 9 月 30 日 
一、參加會議經過 
The 2012 International Conference on Business and Information 於 2012
年 7 月 3 ~5 日在日本札幌的 Renaissance Sapporo Hotel 舉行，會議共 3 日，主辦單位
是 International Business Academics Consortium (iBAC)與 Academy of Taiwan 
Information Systems Research (ATISR)，會議地點雖離市中心雖不遠，但地鐵站下車
後還需走 15-20 分才會到會議地點。研討會所涵蓋研究領域十分廣泛，包括策略管
理、財務管理、行銷管理、資訊管理、科技管理、人力資源管理、作業管理等理論
與實務的應用，3 天約有一百多篇論文發表與會學者多半來自亞洲國家，其中以台
灣學者居多，科技管理領域場次共有 12 個。本人報告主題是以系統動力學觀點來分
析與評估行動內容服務產業不同參與企業(如平台服務業者、內容提供者、顧客等)
間的價值交換與產業動態驅動力，報告安排在科技管理場次。 
二、與會心得 
      這次研討會本人多半參與科技管理場次，與會心得歸納如下: 
‧ 與會論文多著重在知識管理、學習、networking、產業群聚效應、專利管理、
TRIZ 等，另外，隨著行動載具的日益普及，有不少論文也探討行動服務或雲
計畫編號 NSC－100-2221-E-005-072 
計畫名稱 高科技產業技術規畫之穩健決策模式研究(II) 
出國人員
姓名 王瑞德 
服務機構
及職稱 
中興大學科技管理研究所專任教
授 
會議時間 101年 7月 3日至  101年 7月 5日 會議地點 Sapporo, Japan 
會議名稱  The 2012 International Conference on Business and Information 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)行動內容服務之價值網絡分析 
(英文) Value Network Analysis for Mobile Content Services 

Value Network Analysis for Mobile Content Services 
 
Juite Wang 
Graduate Institute of Technology Management, National Chung-Hsing University,  
250 KuoKuang Road, Taichung City 402, Taiwan ROC 
rdwang@nchu.edu.tw 
Lee-Chuan Lo 
Graduate Institute of Technology Management, National Chung-Hsing University,  
250 KuoKuang Road, Taichung City 402, Taiwan ROC 
edison0822@hotmail.com 
 
 
ABSTRACT  
With the booming of service industry, service innovation has become important 
issues to achieve continuous corporate growth. Many researchers began to apply 
various methodologies focusing on how to more effectively create values of services. 
In the telecommunication industry, mobile operators now seek to develop mobile 
content service business to drive revenue growth in response to market saturation of 
the original mobile phone services. Since mobile operators don’t have all capabilities 
required to deliver innovative products or services, the challenge is how to integrate a 
cluster of network participants for delivering value to the end-user. This research 
considers the mobile content service as a value network. A system dynamics 
methodology is developed to analyze and evaluate the value exchanges and dynamic 
forces among participants. The proposed methodology provide a systematic approach 
to qualitatively and quantitatively analyzing complicate value exchanges among 
participants involved in the mobile content service to co-create values to end-users. 
The research findings can provide useful suggestions to mobile operators on how to 
improve their content services from the perspective of value network analysis. 
Keyword: Value Network, System Dynamics, Service Science, Mobile Content 
Service Industry 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Transformation of industrialized economies from a manufacturing base to a service 
orientation is becoming a trend. The rise of information and communication 
technologies (ICT) improves automation and connects global labor markets which 
further increase the growth of knowledge-intensive service industries that support 
manufacturing and innovation. In the United States, over 80% of private sector 
employment is engaged in some sort of service work(Karmarkar 2004). In Taiwan, 
there was about 73.3% of GDP from the service sector in 2005. This shows that the 
service-based economy has become a new trend. Comparing to other industries such 
as manufacturing and agriculture industries that have high productivity, the challenge 
is how to continue rapid productivity advances in a service-based economy.  
Although the service sector is now dominant in every developed economy, it is still 
lack a strong conceptual foundation for service innovation (Chesbrough and Spohrer 
2006). For example, even in the US IT service industry, 10 – 50% of general service 
business contracts do not meet client expectations (Abe 2005). Failure to treat 
services as a subject of scientific analysis has resulted in a difficulty in quantitatively 
suggestions to mobile operators on how to improve their content services from the 
perspective of value network analysis. 
This paper is organized as follows. Section 2 provides the introduction to the mobile 
content industry. The basic concept of system dynamics is introduced in Section 3 and 
the developed system dynamics model that consists of customer dynamics, pricing 
dynamics, content richness dynamics, service quality dynamics, and infrastructure 
dynamics is presented in section 4. Section discusses the simulation result. Finally, 
section 5 concludes the paper. 
 
INTRODUCTION TO MOBILE CONTENT INDUSRY 
Mobile content is any type of media which is viewed or used on mobile devices, like 
ringtones, graphics, discount offers, games, and movies. As mobile phone use has 
grown since the mid 1990s, the significance of the devices in everyday life has grown 
accordingly. Owners of mobile phones can now use their devices to make calendar 
appointments, send and receive text messages (SMS), listen to music, watch videos, 
shoot videos, redeem coupons for purchases, view Microsoft Word documents, and so 
forth. The use of mobile content has grown accordingly.  
Mobile operators today are in a key position as they own the mobile delivery channel 
as well as relationships with end-consumers. However, this dominant position cannot 
make them satisfied. As an example like Internet service providers (ISPs), providing 
the access point to the fixed Internet have been unable to earn appropriate profit that 
is proportional to their privileged position. This is because barriers to entry are low, 
the cost of acquiring customers is high, switching costs are low, and competition is 
based on price. Therefore mobile operators start to pursue innovation in products and 
services that will create value for end-consumers and thus lead to continued revenue 
growth (Peppard and Rylander 2006).  
However, due to the complex nature of the market, mobile operators don’t have all 
capabilities required to deliver innovative products or services (e.g., news, games, 
video, music, radio, etc.). There is a need to integrate a cluster of network participants 
to create a value network for delivering value to the end-user. In addition, with 
deregulation of telecommunication policy, many new competitors have entered the 
market, such as handset manufacturers like Apple and this put a new threat to mobile 
operators (see figure 1).  
 
Handset 
manufacturers
Browser
developers
End 
Customers
Portal
Infrastructure 
Equipments
Mobile
operators
Regulators
Software
Inspection
Com
mun
icati
on 
Reactions
Com
mu
nic
atio
n 
Ch
ann
el
Communication 
ReceptionsService
Providers
Rea
ctio
ns
Manage
User information
User information
Personalisation / information
Browser
Loyalty
Compatibility
Products
User information
Hosting
Content 
providersContent 
creators
Content
aggregators
Download rate
Marketing 
company
Movie, news 
Game, etc.
Content
Feedback, usage 
data, Loyalty
Loyalty
Sale 
Cooperation
Bits
Ticket / Movie service
advertisement
Billing & Payment
Bits
Pa
ym
en
t
Pay
me
nt
Paymen
t
Payment
Mobile Content Industry
contents
Bits
Cu
sto
m
er
 inf
o
Free service
feedbacks
Customer 
info
contents
Paymen
t
 
Figure 1. Value exchanges between different roles for the mobile content industry 
 
customer satisfaction, which then increase the number of customer to adopt the 
content service. However, due to the resources (e.g., employees, infrastructure) 
required to deliver the service that is beyond the available resource capacity, the 
increased number of customers will reduce the service quality. 
The causal loop diagram allows us to quickly capture and represent interdependencies 
and feedback processes in the mobile content service value network and represent its 
system structure qualitatively.  
 
The stock and flow diagram 
To model and understand the system behavior of the mobile content service value 
network, the stock and flow diagram shows relationships among variables which have 
the potential to change over time, where stocks and flows, along with feedback, are 
the two central concepts of dynamic systems theory. Stocks are accumulations which 
characterize the state or performance of the system represented by rectangles. For 
example, stocks may be the number of adopters, available contents, contents 
downloaded, hired personnel, revenues earned, capital equipment, etc. Inflows are 
represented by a pipe with arrow pointing into (adding to) the stock. Outflows are 
represented by pipes pointing out of (subtracting from) the stock. Valves control the 
flows. Clouds represent the sources and sinks for the flows. In figure 3, for example, a 
firm’s content on its content service platform is increased by the growth rate (content 
upload or removal) of contents produced from its content providers. The content 
richness will enhance the attractiveness to end-users which will encourage more users 
to adopt the firm’s content service. More users adopting the content service will 
encourage more content providers to join the firm’s service platform, while increasing 
content growth rate. Therefore a positive feedback is formed. 
 
 
Figure 3. An example of stock and flow diagram 
 
SYSTEM DYNAMICS FOR MOBILE CONTENT SERVICES 
To reduce the model complexity, this paper only considers three key network 
participants including content service providers, content providers, and end-users, and 
studies value exchanges among these three participants. The revenue source of service 
provider is from the mobile value-added service charges to users. Then a portion of 
revenue is shared with content providers based on the mutually agreed revenue 
sharing mechanism. In addition, the mobile operator or service provider is not only 
responsible for billing, charges and checkout process, but also to maintain service 
quality and customer relationship management. On the other hand, the service 
provider must pay the cost of content and service distribution platform (Content & 
service delivery platform fee; CSDP fee) to provide a platform for technology 
platform providers to maintain operating performance. 
 
5. Infrastructure performance dynamics 
Similar to service quality dynamics, better infrastructure performance attracts 
more users to adopt the content service and makes more revenue which will 
increase the firm’s wiliness of investment on the platform infrastructure (R4). This 
will also enlarge infrastructure costs leading to reducing profit (B3). 
 
 
Figure 5. Causal loop diagram for the mobile content service 
 
Stock and flow diagram for mobile content service value network 
The entire model consists of five subsystems: customer dynamics, pricing dynamics, 
content richness dynamics, service quality dynamics, and infrastructure performance 
dynamics.  
The customer dynamics subsystem is adapted from Bass diffusion of innovation 
model (Bass et al. 2001), where the user adoption behavior is determined by the 
word-of-mouth effect and the attractiveness effect from price, content richness, 
service quality, and infrastructure performance (see figure 6). Note that the overall 
attractiveness also determines the rate of customer loss. The service provider can 
develop and implement different strategies to enhance the user adoption speed.  
The pricing dynamics subsystem is developed based on Ikeda’s mobile internet 
service model (Ikeda 2004) (see figure 7). The profitability of the mobile content 
service will stimulate competition within this industry. Intensity of competition is 
determined by the ratio of profit and desired profitability. In the early market stage, if 
the received profit is not high or is even negative, fewer competitors would like to 
enter this market and competitive intensity is not high at this time. However, as the 
number of adopters increases and the profitability grows, more competitors will enter 
the market, enhancing the intensity of competition and driving the price war. The 
price war effect would lower the market prices, resulting in an increase of price 
attractiveness to attract more users for purchasing and using content services. 
 
 Figure 8. Content richness dynamics subsystem 
 
 
 
Figure 9. Service quality dynamics subsystem 
 
 
Figure 10. Infrastructure performance dynamics subsystem 
 
The platform performance (e.g., download speed) will affect the user’s intention to 
use mobile content service. The better platform performance would enhance the 
overall attractiveness of the content service. The infrastructure performance 
subsystem (figure 10) is adapted from the online shopping model by Oliva et al. 
(2003). Platform Infrastructure is considered as a stock, where the amount of 
the revenue sharing ratio to 80:20 can attract more content providers to join the 
platform and improve content richness which would increase the overall attractiveness 
to end-users. Meanwhile, it also reduces the profitability of the firm and industry 
attractiveness, which decreases the intensity of competition. The lower competition 
encourages the firm to raise the price which would lower the overall attractiveness to 
end-users. This explains why the growth rate of overall attractiveness gradually 
becomes flattened after 2014.  
On the contrary, decreasing the revenue sharing ratio to 60:40 would decrease content 
richness; however, the increased profit will attract more competitors to enter the 
market while increasing the competition intensity. This leads to reducing content 
prices and increasing price attractiveness. In summary, the current revenue sharing 
ratio is appropriate in the long run from the perspective of overall attractiveness. 
 
 
Figure 13. The trend of overall attractiveness regarding different revenue sharing 
ratios 
 
 
Figure 14. Attractiveness of price and content richness regarding different revenue 
sharing ratios 
 
dynamic forces play important roles to influence the business value of the content 
service. Mobile operators should carefully design appropriate strategies to attract 
more end-users and content providers to adopt their own content service platforms. 
From the simulation results obtained, we suggested that a mobile operator should 
apply the open garden strategy that can substantially improve not only the overall 
attractiveness of content service, but also the profitability. In addition, an appropriate 
revenue sharing mechanism should be used to enhance the actual value to both 
end-users and content providers. From the research findings, it is concluded that 
system dynamics provides a systematic tool to qualitatively and quantitatively analyze 
and evaluate complicate value exchanges among participants from the system 
thinking perspective. This can help managers develop and analyze a new service 
business model. Finally, this paper only provides a preliminary study on the mobile 
content service industry. Future research will continue to collect more empirical data 
to further refine the proposed system dynamics model. 
 
APPENDIX  
This research is partially supported by Grant no. NSC 98-2221-E-005-038 from the 
National Science Council of the Republic of China. 
 
REFERENCES 
Abe, T. (2005). What is service science? Tokyo, Japan, The Fujitsu Research 
Institute. 
Allee, V. (2008). "Value network analysis and value conversion of tangible and 
intangible assets." Journal of Intellectual Capital 9(1): 5-24. 
Basole, R. C. and Rouse, W. B. (2008). "Complexity of service value networks: 
Conceptualization and empirical investigation." IBM Systems Journal 47(1): 
53-70. 
Bass, F. M., Gordon, K., Ferguson, T. L. and Githens, M. L. (2001). "Directv: 
Forecasting diffusion of a new technology prior to product launch." Interfaces 
31(3): S82-S93. 
Chesbrough, H. and Spohrer, J. (2006). "A research manifesto for services science." 
Commun. ACM 49(7): 35-40. 
Christensen, C. (2003). The innovator's dilemma: The revolutionary book that will 
change the way you do business, Collins Business. 
Dedrick, J. and Kraemer, K. L. (2005). "The impacts of it on firm and industry 
structure: The personal computer industry." California Management Review 
47(3): 122-+. 
Forrester, J. W. (2007). "System dynamics—a personal view of the first fifty years." 
System Dynamics Review 23(2-3): 345-358. 
Ikeda, D. (2004). "Benefit from web services in the mobile internet industry." MS 
Thesis, Engineering Systems Division, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
Karmarkar, U. (2004). "Will you survive the services revolution?" Harvard Business 
Review 82(6): 100-107. 
Larson, R. C. (2008). "Service science: At the intersection of management, social, and 
engineering sciences." IBM Systems Journal 47: 41-51. 
Moller, K., Rajala, R. and Westerlund, M. (2008). "Service innovation myopia? A 
new recipe for client-provider value creation." California Management Review 
50(3): 31-+. 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/11
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 高科技產業技術規畫之穩健決策模式研究(II)
計畫主持人: 王瑞德
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-005-072- 學門領域: 服務系統與科技管理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
參與國際會議獲得’’’’Best Reviewer Award’’’’ 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
