   II
B. 計畫英文摘要 
This report is concerned with the processing of active wideband signal in a shallow water 
reverberation-limited environment. Basic concept of transmitting, receiving and 
processing signal is presented in order to identify and localize objects. In particular, 
correlation or matching filter processing is applied to combine the transmitted signal with 
a received signal so that the highest correlation is yielded, which provides estimation of a 
set of parameters usually the range and velocity of the objects. This processing 
technique is equivalent to the one with the continuous wavelet transform (CWT), which 
possesses several advantages when applying to the area of wideband correlation 
processing. The key advantage comes in the flexibility of designing the mother wavelets. 
With this distinct feature, one may apply the well-developed wavelet theory and wideband 
correlation processing to problems such as source localization and channel modeling. As 
a consequence, many of the narrowband restrictions are removed so that significant 
motion between the sensors and objects can be detected. When the issue of noise is 
considered for the received composite signal, the concept of adaptive noise canceling 
(ANC) is applied to extract the echo signal masked by either reverberation or additive 
noise. The core of the ANC completely relies on a hybrid learning intelligent system 
named adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference systems (ANFIS). Instead of filtering out the noise 
occurred usually in the concept of conventional ANC, the ANFIS, a fuzzy inference 
system (FIS) implemented in the framework of adaptive networks, seeks to identify the 
noise and hence subtract it from the returned signal to yield an estimated echo signal. 
Examples are given to demonstrate the effectiveness of the ANFIS technique for which 
the received backscattered return is masked by noise interferences usually generated 
from another detectable noise source (either the reverberation or additive noise) via a 
certain unknown nonlinear channel. 
 
Keywords: 
Active sonar system, reverberation-limited environment, correlation filter, Adaptive Noise 
Canceller, narrowband, broadband signal detection system, continuous wavelet 
transform, adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference systems, fuzzy inference system. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
where performance of an active sonar, for instance a horizontally directed fisheries sonar deployed
from a surface vessel, is often of reverberation limited [9]. Noise interference can also obstruct the
study of the Doppler structure in echoes [10] and inhibit largely for the acoustic tracking of migrating
species in rivers [11].
A possible remedy for the active signal detection with noise inference problem is commonly
offered by the technique of adaptive processor named adaptive noise cancelling (ANC) [12]. In-
stead of recovering the original information directly from the ANC output, in this report we explore
the possibility of identifying the noise through a hybrid learning intelligent system named adaptive
neuro-fuzzy inference systems (ANFIS) [13, 14], which is the core of the central adaptive processor,
to result in an estimated noise. Due to the noise additive to the source signal, subtracted it from the
composite returned signal will yield an estimated source signal. The ANFIS, a fuzzy inference sys-
tem (FIS) implemented in the framework of adaptive networks, is served as a basis for constructing
a set of fuzzy if-then rules with appropriate choice of membership functions to generate the stipu-
lated input-output pairs. In particular, the learning algorithm of ANFIS combines gradient decent
and least-square methods to result in an efficient hybrid training for system identification. The least-
square method is the major driving force of the ANFIS operation leading to fast training, while the
gradient decent method serves to generate basis membership functions for the least-square method.
More specifically, in each epoch of this hybrid learning procedure, given input data with its corre-
sponding premise parameters fixed, functional signals using the sequential least squares estimator go
forward to yield the consequent parameters for predicting the signal. At the same time, the error rates
of training data set propagate backward from the output end toward the input end so that the premise
parameters (and hence the basis membership functions) are updated in the sense that the error mea-
sure is minimized by the gradient decent method for each input-output pair. The ANFIS architecture
has been proven to be excellent in modelling nonlinear functions, identifying nonlinear components
in a control system, and chaotic time series prediction, etc [13]. Other advantages of using ANFIS
model for system prediction are to require few trials and simpler architecture as compared to the
neural network, which requires extensive trials and errors in order to achieve the optimization of the
model proposed.
2 Simulation Results
This section looks at some simulation results using the correlation processing of CWT to detect
target’s locations based on a given target’s velocity. The mother wavelet used in the CWT as the
transmitted pulse is the Morlet wavelet. In the following, we simulate two types of background:
reverberation dominant and noise dominant. It is desirable for a system to detect a very low energy
signal, which means having low SRR/ or SNR in that circumstance. Thus, the values of SRR and
SNR are both set to be negative, which means energy of the target is much less than that of the
reverberation or additive noise. In the simulation, we assume that the target is initially spotted at
the range of 500 meters away from the observer, i.e., R0 = 500m when v = 0m/s. Furthermore,
the length of the transmitted pulse centered at 0 is set to 10ms, while the duration of the received
signal is set to 2 seconds. The speed of sound propagation in the underwater environment is set at
c = 1500m/s and the sampling frequency of the returned signal is fs = 8000Hz. Thus, the total
number of grid points applied for simulation is 16001. Since the calculation of the time-scaling of
the received signal is initially based on a given velocity, the range of the target echo can simply be
detected by locating the highest correlation between the received signal and the transmitted signal.
2.1 Reverberation Background
In this section, we simulate the single object detection using techniques discussed above for which
the received composite signal is mainly dominated by the reverberation waveform. To measure the
range detection error, we first test a stationary object (v = 0), i.e., the time-scaling s = 1.0. For
detecting a desirable low energy signal embedded in the high power of reverberation background, the
SRR in both cases are set to −60dB.
Let us assume that the magnitude of the reverberation have zero mean and variance 0.01. The
number of scatters is set to 200 and the ranges of the scatters vary from 5m to 1500m distant from
the observer. Any scatters have ranges less than 5m will assume to encounter zero reverberation.
2
[2] T. H. Glisson, C. I. Black, and A. P. Sage, “On digital replica correlation algorithms with appli-
cations to active sonar,” IEEE Trans. Audio and Elect., vol. 17, no. 3, pp. 190-197, 1969.
[3] J. L. Stewart and E. C. Westerfield, “A theory of active sonar detection,” Proc. IRE, pp. 872-881,
1959.
[4] L. Auslander and I. Gertner, “Wideband ambiguity function generation and ax+b group,” from
signal Processing, part I: signal processing, Springer-Verlag, New York, vol. 1, pp. 1-12, 1990.
[5] P. Maass, “Wideband approximaition and wavelet transform,” in Radar and Sonar, Part II, F. A.
Grunbaun, M. Bernfield, and R. E. Blahut, editors, Springer-Verlag, pp. 83-88, 1992.
[6] I. Daubechies, “Orthonormal bases of compactly supported wavelets,” Comm. in Pure and Ap-
plied Math. vol. 41, pp. 909-996, 1988
[7] L. G. Weiss, “Wavelets and wideband correlation processing,” IEEE Signal Processing Maga-
zine, pp. 13-32, 1994.
[8] H. Van Trees, Detection, Estimation, and Modulation Theory, Parts I, II, III, Wiley, New York,
1968.
[9] R. B. Mitson, Fisheries Sonar. Farnham, Surrey, England: Fishing News Books, Ltd., 1983.
[10] D. V. Holliday, “Doppler structure in echoes from schools of pelagic fish,” J. Acoust. Soc. Amer.,
vol. 55, pp. 1313-1322, 1974.
[11] D. G. Pincock and N. W. Easton, “The feasibility of Doppler sonar fishing counting,” IEEE J.
Ocean. Eng., vol. OE-3, pp. 37-40, 1978.
[12] b. Widrow et al., “Adaptive noise cancelling: Principles and applications,” IEEE proc, vol. 63,
pp. 1692-1716, 1975.
[13] J-S R. Jang, Neuro-Fuzzy Modeling: Architecture, Analysis and Applications, Ph.D. thesis,
University of California, Bereley, USA, 1992.
[14] J-S R. Jang, “ANFIS: adaptive-network-based fuzzy inference systems,” IEEE Tran. Sys. Man,
Cybernetics, vol. 23, pp. 665-685, 1993.
[15] C. H. Tseng and B. J. Chen, ”Achieving full parallelism of membrane vibration system using
MD retiming of wave digital filters technique”, submitted to the 6th IEEE International Sym-
posium on signal Processing and Information Technology (ISSPIT06), Vancouver, Canada.
[16] C. H. Tseng and H. Y. Chen, ”On the modeling of 2D seismic waveform system using multidi-
mensional wave digital filtering technique”, submitted to the 13th IEEE International Confer-
ence on Electronics, Circuits and Systems (ICECS06), Nice, France.
4
Figure 3: Continuous wavelet transform of (a) noisy signal c(t) = gˆ(t) + n(t). (b) estimated signal
gˆe(t) through the ANFIS operation of ANC process (The target echo exists at the distance of (500 +
²)m away from the observer).
0.45 0.5 0.55 0.6 0.65 0.7 0.75 0.8
−1
0
1
x 10−4 (a)
Am
pl
itu
de
−0.5 0 0.5 1 1.5 2
−0.4
−0.2
0
0.2
0.4
Am
pl
itu
de
(b)
−0.5 0 0.5 1 1.5 2
−0.4
−0.2
0
0.2
0.4
(c)
Am
pl
itu
de
Time (s)
Figure 4: Time domain received signal with SNR=−45dB and v = −50m/s. (a)Noise-free signal
gˆ(t) received upon SNR. (b)Additive noise n(t) generated through an unknown nonlinear channel.
(c)Composite signal c(t) = gˆ(t) + n(t).
6
