traffic flow information from local area RDS 
transponder. This paper has attempted to show the 
basics of RDS Network (RDS-NT) architecture (three 
hardware devices) and RDS coding structure (three 
software protocols) how to cooperate within vehicle 
and infrastructure. In this paper, we will introduce 
the RDS application such as RDS-TMC which is the more 
mature application worldwide and the RDS coding 
structure to act as the new network communication 
interface within vehicle and infrastructure. Finally, 
this paper would develop the new solution of RDS 
network by implemented the new hardware and software.
英文關鍵詞： RDS Traffic Message Channel； RDS Network； RDS 
coding structure 
 
V2V: Vehicle to Vehicle 
V2I: Vehicle to Infrastructure 
 
 
Figure 1.  RDS network Arcitecture 
A. RDS Local Algorithm 
RDS data is formatted in 16 groups and divided into type A 
and type B. These groups contain different data like program 
type  or enhanced other networks information data. Every 
group contains 104 bits and separates 4 blocks. A block 
contains 26 bits and is divided into the Information word and 
the check word with the Offset . The Information word 
contains 16 bits and carries data. The check word with the 
offset is for error correction and synchronization. In this paper, 
we address the first 6 bits of information word as the local area 
location table and the last 10 bits of information word as the 
continuous states of traffic flow and light. We could use the 9B, 
10A, 11B, 12A and 12B groups of open data application (ODA) 
with RDS local algorithm. Every group has 32 bits to be wrote 
such as TMC algorithm [6, 8].  
 
Figure 2.  Coding structure of RDS network  
B. RDS Network Architechture 
In this paper, we launched the  RDS network architecture with 
the use of three devices of hardware and collected the real time 
traffic flow information. Besides, we also designed the network 
architecture with the use of three protocols to send or read data 
with each others by RDS local algorithm. 
(1) Hardware:  
I. RDS Terminal: This device looks like navigator 
and uses the touch panel to operate. It concludes 
the two-ways transmission mode to send and 
receive the traffic data.  
II. RDS Transponder: This device looks like Wi-Fi 
access point and installs outside near the crossroad. 
It collects all message when each vehicle drive 
into its local area in 3 km. Additionally, the back-
edge server computes all information and shares 
back to every RDS terminal. 
III. RDS Back-edge server: This device works as 
cloud data server to manage every RDS 
transponder by IPV6 network and computes every 
traffic event as RDS network code to deliver.  
(2) Software: 
I. RDS-NT Protocol #1: This algorithm is used 
between with RDS terminals that we call it 
protocol #1. 
II. RDS-NT Protocol #2: This algorithm is used 
between RDS terminal and RDS transponder that 
we call it protocol #2. 
III. RDS-NT Protocol #3: This algorithm is used 
between RDS transponder  and RDS back server 
that we call it protocol #3. 
 
Figure 3.  Hardware and software operation of RDS netwrok 
 
C. Magement System for Vehicle Information 
The primary consideration of RDS network is implemented 
for the real time need of vehicle driver to make the decision of 
driving pathway choose. At present, there is no solution to 
answer which pathway would be quick even the navigator also 
could not response the precise map guiding. That is why this 
paper would like to study the RDS and design the devices to 
create the network. Generally, every vehicle driver could 
describe the  customized traffic information from the website 
of RDS network and evaluate it effectively. When vehicle 
drivers joint into this kind of research project, they would 
share more user experience information about it and then 
optimized their experience of real operation. 
 
IV. SYSTEM LIMITATION 
In the process of research, the first limitation of RDS-NT is 
data capacity which contains five RDS groups of ODA and 
totally has 160 bits to save three protocols. The second 
limitation, the transmission distance of RDS-NT  is depend on 
transponder’s power and antenna. In a word, the data 
transmission capacity is lower than GSM network or Wi-Fi 
Local	  area	  Location	  Table States	  of	  Traffic	  flow	  and	  Lights 
2011 International Conference on Computer 
Science and Logistics Engineering (2011 ICCSLE) 
	  
	  
 
 
	  	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
 
22 
 
Afternoon 
 
Dceember. 9 
 
Lecture Hall 2 
Paper No: 
1233 
CONNECTED CARS AND CLOUD COMPUTING IN THE LONG COMMUTES 
Mohamed El-Refaey 
ABSTRACT 
As governments around the world press ahead in their efforts to improve social and 
economic growth, they continue to turn to development of intelligent transportation 
systems. Lots of alliances occurred between technology vendors and car fabrication 
vendors in order to make the best use of both fields to enhance, improve and make the 
transportation systems along with cars smarter. 
There are many technologies associated with the intelligent transportation concepts, such 
as wireless communication, built-in   vehicles’   electronic devices, high speed broadband 
networks, cloud computing...etc. the combination of these technologies will add a great 
value to the intelligent transportation ecosystem. In this paper, we will present a novel 
architecture for connected vehicles system using cloud computing and Amazon web 
services along with the challenges associated with implementing such system and go 
through its layered architecture. And the focus will be on the cloud computing part of the 
system. 
Afternoon 
 
Dceember. 9 
 
Lecture Hall 2 
Paper No: 
1151 
Research on picking process reengineering for one prescription filled by multiple 
pharmacists 
Chang Ching-Hsiang   
ABSTRACT 
When it comes to hospital service quality, the processing time of prescription is always 
considered as one of the most obvious and important indicators, and has influenced the 
patient safety directly. The present situation of the prescription filling line designed for 
individual pharmacist without taking patient safety into consideration has existed in 
Taiwan for decades. Therefore, this study tried to focus on restructuring the picking 
process reengineering of prescription by doing a three-year research of defining the 
principles how the multiple pharmacists cooperate the prescription filling line together in 
the pharmacy department.  Also, we tried to decrease the human errors of prescription 
filled by re-planning the layout on the drug cabinets with ABC classification method and 
re-organizing the pharmacists to pick out the same prescription meanwhile with line 
balance method.  So, there will be less time to spend in searching and identifying 
prescription filled for both pharmacists and patients with ease and safety.  
Afternoon 
 
Dceember. 9 
 
Lecture Hall 2 
Paper No: 
1155 
AN ACCELERATING SCHEME FOR NETFLOW DATA FILTERING 
BASED-ON GPU CUMPUTATION CAPABILITY 
WEI-CHIH HSU 
ABSTRACT 
Netflow,   a   network   traffic   statistical   technique,   is   used   to   detect   network’s   abnormal  
behaviors. With the growing utilization of internet, daily-generated netflow data have 
increased from megabytes (MB) to gigabytes (GB)., The computation time required to 
filter netflow data is longer with a single central processing unit (CPU). In this paper, we 
proposed a novel computation scheme to improve the efficiency of netflow data filtering 
with the integration of the computing capability of the graphics processing unit (GPU) 
and the central processing unit (CPU). In our scheme, we developed the optimization of 
the data arrangement onto the memory and adjust the memory access sequence. The 
experimental results showed that the computation performance attained by our approach 
was about 11 times faster compared to that attained by CPU-only architecture. 
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
2011  International  Conference  on  Computer  Science  and  Logistics  Engineering(ICCSLE2011)  
  
  
Notification  of  Acceptance  of  the  ICCSLE  2011  
17-­‐19  December  2010,  Zhengzhou,  China  
http://www.ICCSLE2011.org     
Dear  CHANG  CHING-­‐HSIANG,  
Paper  ID  ：1151     
Paper  Title  :  Research  on  picking  process  reengineering  for  one  prescription  filled  by  multiple  pharmacists  
Congratulations!   The   review  processes   for   2011   International   Conference   on   Computer   Science   and  Logistics  
Engineering   (ICCSLE   2011)   has   been   completed.   Based   on   the   recommendations   of   the   reviewers,   we   are  
pleased  to  inform  you  that  your  paper  identified  above  has  been  accepted  for  publication  and  oral  presentation.  
You  are  cordially  invited  to  present  the  paper  at  ICCSLE  2011  to  be  held  on  11-­‐13,  November  2011,  Zhengzhou,  
China.     
(Important)  So  in  order  to  register  the  conference  and  have  your  papers  published  and  indexing  successfully,  you  
must  finish  following  four  steps.  
1.  Revise  your  paper  according  to  the  Review  Comments  in  the  following  carefully.  
http://www.iccsle.org/iccsle/sysadmin/Userfiles/ASME_conf_template(4).doc     
2.   Finish   the   payment   of   Registration   fee   at   the   Bank.   (The   bank   transfer   information   can   be   found   in   the  
Registration  form)     
http://www.iccsle.org/ICCSLE.Registration.doc     
3.  Finish  the  ASME  Copyright  form  
http://www.iccsle.org/asmecopyright.pdf     
4.  Send  your  final  papers  (both  .doc  and  .pdf  format),  filled  registration  form  (.doc  format),  copyright  form  (.jpg  
format)  and  the  scanned  payment  (in  .jpg  format)  to  us  at  iccsle2011@gmail.com      (Before  Sep.5,  2011)  
If   the  above   requirements  are  met  by   the   set  deadlines,   the  paper  will  be  published  by  ASME,  which  will  be  
indexed  by  EI  Compendex,  and  many  other  index  databases.  
Maybe  some  unforeseeable  events  could  prevent  a  few  authors  not  to  attend  the  event  to  present  their  papers,  
so   if  you  and  your  co-­‐author(s)  could  not  attend  ICCSLE  2011  to  present  your  paper  for  some   reasons,  please  
inform  us.  And  we  will  send  you  the  official  receipt  of  registration  fee  and  proceedings  after  ICCSLE2011.     
Please  strictly  adhere  to  the  format  specified  in  the  conference  template  while  preparing  your  final  paper.  If  you  
have  any  problem  in  preparing  the  final  paper,  please  feel  free  to  contact  us  via  ICCSLE2011@gmail.com  .For  the  
most   updated   information   on   the   conference,   please   check   the   conference   website   at  
http://www.iccsle.org  .The  Conference  Program  will  be  available  at  the  website  before  conference.  
Finally,  we  would  like  to  further  extend  our  congratulations  to  you  and  we  are  looking  forward  to  meeting  you  in  
Zhengzhou,  China!  
  
Yours  sincerely,  
ICCSLE  2011  Organizing  Committees  
  
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：張晴翔 計畫編號：100-2221-E-309-005- 
計畫名稱：調頻副載波車載網路管理系統 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
□達成目標 
■未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
■其他原因 
說明： 
本計畫原先乃校內整合型計畫其中一項，因整體計劃並未全面通過，故部分實驗無法如預
期場域進行實測研究。故本研究仍採用相同技術核心 FM RDS 的應用，朝向防災訊息發佈與接
收進行探討，也已有具體成果。目前本研究已驗證了獨立 FM RDS 的發射與接收兩個界面與端
體的研究開發，並實際上將自定文字碼透過發射板的方式，將內容發射出來到兩件接收板上，
藉此可呈現出 FM RDS 技術的特徵與體現。而本研究團隊也將此一研究成果與交通部運輸研究
所及內政部消防署進行交流，也分享了有別於既有 RDS TMC 運用的瓶頸，該技術僅能在 8A 上
表達事件表與路線表，而本研究已突破這樣的編碼表傳輸瓶頸，未來將有許多創意應用。 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 ■洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
本研究將與隔年的研究成果一起技轉給合作廠商，再由合作廠商申請專利。 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
1.學術成就：目前已發表了一篇研討會論文，第二篇也已研討會論文已投稿中，應可完成
接受。 
2.技術創新：創新將 FM RDS 技術運用在防災訊息發佈的研究可行性與體現技術特徵，台
灣過往僅有 RDS TMC 的實際運用經驗，但 TMC 的架構受限於 8A 的資料儲存量與格式，並
無法立即動態訊息變化與非格式化的明文任意碼的運用，這對於災害事件的複雜性與多元
性將有很大的挑戰，無法依照災害事件任意自由發揮，這也是本研究希望第一時間內回餽
公部門。 
3.社會影響：消防署在規劃資訊發佈應用時僅考量了既有的網路設施，忽略掉既有 FM RDS
的技術可運用性，本研究在這個研究基礎之下，前往推廣這技術可行性，並成功的將此技
術讓消防署在建制系統時採用。未來，防災訊息發佈將可透過 FM RDS 達到無時差的訊息
