 2
 
計畫名稱  以異質結構通道層來形成極佳電性之複晶矽薄膜電晶體 
中文關鍵字  薄膜電晶體、複晶矽/碳化矽堆疊通道層，漏電流 
英文關鍵字  thin-film transistor, polycrystalline Si/SiC stacked channel layer, leakage current 
 
中文摘要 
本計畫採用複晶矽/碳化矽堆疊層來作為薄膜電晶體之通道層，藉此，即使電晶體閘極長
度微縮至 1微米，其漏電流仍可保持在約 10 pA/微米以下，反觀，以複晶矽作為薄膜電晶
體通道層之元件，其漏電流則明顯地隨著閘極負偏壓增大而變大。 
 
英文摘要 
A thin film transistor with polycrystalline Si/SiC hetero-structure channel layer has been 
proposed. For the conventional poly-Si channel layer, the leakage current would be considerably 
increased with increasing the negative gate bias voltage. However, when a polycrystalline Si/SiC 
stacked channel layer is employed, the leakage current just exhibits slight increase with 
increasing the negative gate bias voltage. As a result, the leakage current can be largely 
suppressed to a low level without degrading the on-state current. Moreover, when the channel 
length is further scaled down to 1 μm and the gate oxide is reduced to 60 nm thickness, the 
conventional poly-Si TFT device shows even more obvious deterioration of leakage current. 
Instead, for the TFT device with a polycrystalline Si/SiC channel layer, no considerable 
degradation of leakage characteristics is caused. 
 
一、背景及目的 
In recent years, polycrystalline silicon (poly-Si) thin-film transistors (TFTs) are actively 
studied for its potential using in the static random-access memory (SRAM) [1] and as the 
integrating peripheral driving circuits in high resolution active matrix liquid crystal displays 
(AMLCDs) due to their large mobility [2]. However, due to the presence of defects in poly-Si 
TFT, some issues have to be resolved in comparison with the single crystalline transistors. A 
leakage current is increased with the increasing of gate and drain voltage due to the field emission 
via trap states (defects) in the depletion region near the drain. This is one of the bias-dependent 
issues caused by defects in poly-Si TFT, which cause poor switching characteristics such as low 
on/off current ratio [3]-[6]. TFTs with lower on/off current ratio used as pixel switching in 
AMLCD represent a limiting factor about operation and can degrade the performance of the 
display. 
It has been reported that various drain structures can decrease the leakage current in polysilicon 
TFTs due to reduction of electric field intensity near the drain region [7]-[11]. On the other hand, 
channel engineering has been employed to improve device characteristics including short channel 
effect in ultra-large-scale-integrated circuit. Hence, the TFT device characteristics may also be 
improved via proper channel engineering. In this study, a TFT structure with polycrystalline 
hetero-structure channel layer has been proposed to implement high-performance poly-Si TFT in 
micrometer regime. 
 
二、研究方法 
A typical poly-Si TFT device fabrication process flow is firstly described below. A 100 
nm-thick amorphous silicon (a-Si) film was firstly deposited on a standard glass substrate by 
low-pressure- chemical-vapor-deposition (LPCVD) at 580 °C. Then, the a-Si thin film was 
 4
As a result, a much larger leakage current is caused. 
   Though the poly-SiC channel layer can greatly suppress the leakage, the on-state current is 
largely degraded. Hence, a poly-Si layer is stacked atop of a poly-SiC layer to form a 
poly-Si/poly-SiC stacked channel layer, for retaining the on-state current. In addition, by this 
scheme, the source/drain bulk punch-through would mainly occur within the SiC channel region. 
Therefore, the leakage current due to carrier field emission via trap states may be greatly 
suppressed due to the wide-bandgap of SiC. Accordingly, when a poly-Si/poly-SiC stacked 
channel layer is employed in the polycrystalline TFT device, the leakage current may be 
suppressed without degrading the on-state current. As a result, while the poly-Si channel layer 
(100-nm) is replaced by a stacked poly-Si/poly-SiC channel layer (20-nm poly-Si/80-nm 
poly-SiC), the leakage current is significantly suppressed. Fig. 4 shows the IDS-VGS characteristic 
at VDS of 5V for the TFT devices with a single poly-Si and a heterostructure poly-Si/poly-SiC 
channel layer, respectively, of a channel length of 1μm and a gate oxide of 80 nm thickness. The 
TFT device with a poly-Si/poly-SiC channel layer just shows a slight decrease of on-state current. 
Moreover, the leakage current is significantly suppressed to a low level at the negative gate bias 
even to 20 V. However, for the TFT device with a poly-Si channel layer, the leakage current is 
obviously increased with increasing the negative gate bias voltage. 
 
四、結論 
Formation of thin film transistors with polycrystalline Si/SiC hetero-structure channel layer has 
been studied. For the conventional poly-Si channel layer, the leakage current would be 
considerably increased with increasing the negative gate bias voltage. The poly-SiC channel layer 
can greatly suppress the leakage, due to the wide-band gap property of SiC. However, the 
on-state current is largely degraded because of a low mobility.  Accordingly, when a 
poly-Si/poly-SiC stacked channel layer is employed, the leakage current can be largely 
suppressed to a low level, without degrading the on-state current. By this scheme, in addition, the 
leakage current just exhibits slight increase with increasing the negative gate bias voltage. On the 
other hand, when the channel length is further scaled down to 1 μm and the gate oxide is 
reduced to 60 nm thickness, the conventional poly-Si TFT device shows even more obvious 
deterioration of leakage current. Instead, for the TFT device with a poly-Si/poly-SiC channel 
layer, no considerable degradation of leakage characteristics is caused. The source/drain bulk 
punch-through and thus the considerably induced lateral electric field would mainly occur within 
the SiC region. Therefore, the carrier field emission via trap state within the channel region 
would be greatly suppressed due to the wide-bandgap of SiC. 
 
五、參考文獻 
[1] F. Hayashi, H. Ohkubo, T. Takahashi, S. Horiba, K. Noda, T. Uchida, T. Shimizu, N. 
Sugawara, and S. Kumashiro: 1996, Int. Electron Device Meet. Tech. Dig.,  pp. 283. 
[2] H. Hayashi, M. Kunii, N. Suzuki, Y. Kanaya, M. Kuki and M. Minegishi, T. Urazono, M. 
Fujino, T. Noguchi, and M. Yamazaki: 1995, Int. Electron Device Meet. Tech. Dig., pp. 829. 
[3] T. E. Chang, C. Huang, and T. Wang: 1995, IEEE Trans. Electron Devices vol. ED-42, pp. 
738. 
[4] J. G.. Fossum, A. Ortiz-Conde, H. Shichijo, and S. K. Banerjee: 1985, IEEE Trans. Electron 
Devices vol.ED-32, pp. 1878. 
[5] L. Colalongo, M. Valdinoci, G.. Baccarani, P. Migliorato, G. Tallarida, and C. Reita: 1997, 
Solid State Electron.41, pp. 626. 
 
 6
 
Fig. 3 
 
Fig. 4 
 
 
 
七、成果自評 
   本計畫採用複晶矽/碳化矽堆疊層來作為薄膜電晶體之通道層，藉此，即使電晶體閘極
長度微縮至 1微米，其漏電流仍可保持在約 10 pA/微米以下，反觀，以複晶矽作為薄膜電
晶體通道層之元件，其漏電流則明顯地隨著閘極負偏壓增大而變大。 
本計畫成果已發表於期刊  
Semiconductor Science and Technology  2008, vol. 23, 085017(4pp) SCI 
 
 
