 I
中文摘要 
本研究運用失效模式及效應分析 FMEA (Failure Mode and Effect Analysis)與基因驗算
法 GA(Genetic Algorithm)的技術建構一套整合式風險評估的模式，主要用於提昇產品研發
初步設計的效益。此風險整合評估模式是以產品研發計畫全盤性考量技術績效、成本與時
程等三項指標為核心，以利專案管理者在產品功能設計過程與分配可運用的資源決策上，
可以提出有效的改善方案及措施。而後以此計畫所欲建構的風險評估模式與演算法則，藉
由 Borland Delphi 6 的程式語言建立一套全面性的新產品風險評估模式，同時進行真實新產
品案例模式評估分析檢討與修正，使此模式可提供專案管理者與執行者在專案改良設計決
策與研發流程改善上，最適可行的參考依據。 
關鍵字：新產品研發、風險管理、失效模式與效應分析、基因演算法 
 
Abstract 
New Product Development (NPD) has typically had strategic implications for the success 
and prosperity of an organization. This paper we apply the refined Failure Mode and Effect 
Analysis (FMEA) and Genetic Algorithm (GA) techniques to develop and establish an integrated 
risk analysis model for improving preliminary design of New Product Development (NPD). The 
model is based on the three core items, which are technological performance, cost, and schedule 
risk to improve the process of preliminary design and resource allocation in NPD projects. In the 
model, the data for risk severity, occurrence and correlation characteristics are collected for each 
of the core items. Finally, we applied the integrated risk analysis model and associated computer 
software to a real case study for improving design decision and process change for NPD project. 
Keywords: New product development, Risk management, Failure mode and effect analysis, 
Genetic algorithm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2
during NPD design process, project team members 
often give more effort to risk management. NPD risk 
evaluat ion consists of the process of r isk 
identification, qualitative risk analysis, and  
quantitative risk analysis. 
We have developed a set of risk criteria for the 
NPD design stage. It contains technological 
performance, schedule, and cost. The WBS (Work 
breakdown structure) provides the control structure 
by which all project works are managed, evaluated, 
and reported. Every work can be identified and 
defined by the WBS that specified cost, schedule, and 
performance requirement. For example, the 
scheduling process is fully integrated throughout the 
WBS by a  logic  network that  es tabl ishes 
interdependency between WBS elements. The 
element, subsystem, and system schedules then 
become the framework for establishing time-phrased 
estimates and resource requirements to meet  
contractual obligations. 
To establish work scope, budget, and schedule 
baselines that is integrated at the performing level 
and upward through all levels of the NPD WBS. 
Measuring, processing, and reporting the risk 
management status that against technology work 
scope, budget, schedule baselines to the appropriate 
levels of internal and external management.  
Potential failure mode is used to define the 
function of the system, subsystem, or element fail in 
the life cycle for FMEA process. It is not only 
suitable for technical risk, but also suitable for cost 
and schedule risk between the concept and 
preliminary design stage. Therefore, Project 
Management Institute [13] stated technique, cost and 
schedule are triple constraint for a NPD project, and 
stakeholders of a project have to handle and find an 
optimum combination of characteristic of these  
elements.  
The severity and occurrence definitions are 
similar to the FMEA definition. Severity is the rank 
associated with predicting the worst possible result 
versed planned result for a given item. Severity is the 
relative ranking score depending on the evaluation 
criteria of the individual item. The criteria ranking 
values are from 1 to 10 for severity and occurrence 
items. Occurrence is the likelihood that the predicted 
possible result will occur during the product life. The 
likelihood of occurrence ranking number has a 
relative meaning rather than an absolute value. 
Detection is the rank associated with best detection 
control for a given item in the FMEA process and 
will be utilized at the system definition stage. We 
adopt correlation to replace the detection at  
preliminary design stage. 
A correlation system is a method to quantify 
relative status of technique, cost and schedule for 
work. Feng, C.W., Liu, L., Burns, S.A. [14] showed 
that the technique, cost and schedule of a work is 
determined by the type of resource being used during 
the NPD stage. It is reasonable to assume that 
technique, cost and schedule of an option are 
correlated. It is more complicated to describe the 
importance or relation between the technique, cost 
and schedule during design process. Just like a 
weighting system, it will assign a numerical weight 
to each of the evaluation criteria, and get the whole 
score for the 3 items. The criteria are ranked from 1 
to 10 for the correlation model. Sum of the 3 items  
correlation number is then equal to 1. 
The model uses on the three core items of 
technological performance, cost, and schedule risk to 
improve the process of preliminary design and 
resource allocation in NPD projects. When two parts 
assemble into one assembly, it encodes the individual 
score from different view as decision variables in a 
string of real number digits. One part has 1×109 
combinations for the technique, cost and schedule 
item that have individual severity, occurrence, and 
correlation system choices. The other assembled part 
also has 1×109 combinations. Therefore one assembly, 
which has two interdependent parts assembled 
totaling  1×1018 combination, is too complicated to 
choose best design configuration. Therefore, we 
adopted the GA to search the best combination of 
respective parameters. GA has powerful optimization 
tools of selection, and mutation, and crossover 
techniques by combining the improved solution of 
initial solution. Jou, C. [15] showed GA is capable to 
seek an optimal combination of short manufacturing 
time and others resources. The initial concept design 
of two related elements is a feasible initial solution 
for the NPD project, and the two related elements are 
two interdependent populations at design stage. The 
operations of selection, and mutation, and crossover  
techniques are as follows： 
z Selection：Each new generation choose the best 
solutions held over from previous generations for two  
ind individual populations. 
z Mutation：Each new generation of immigrant 
solutions added randomly increase diversity from 
previous generations for two individual populations. 
z Crossover：A pai r  of  new genera t ion 
chromosomes produced from randomly combining 
and reassembling from a pair of selected previous  
generations at same point. 
 4
Table 3. Evaluation criteria of correlation 
Criteria Correlation 
Technology Schedule Cost 
Score 
Very high Critical 
Technology 
under 
development 
or transfer 
Affect to achieve 
schedule scope 
>10% of 
overall 
budget 
10, 9 
High Single source 
but adoptable 
or received 
Major slip in key 
milestone 
10-7% 8, 7 
Moderate Multi source 
or Upgraded 
Technology  
Minor slip in key 
milestone 
7-4% 6, 5, 4
Low Revised or 
minor 
Upgraded 
Technology 
Meet schedule 
when additional 
resources 
required 
＜4% 3, 2 
Remote Original 
Technology 
No impact No impact 1 
In Table 1, Table 2, and Table 3, we define the 
risk criteria ranking score for NPD project risk 
analysis. The severity, occurrence and correlation risk 
scores are evaluated for technology, schedule and 
cost categories. The column is used to classify any 
category for system, subsystem, or element that 
requires evaluation. The score of individual impact 
status depends on predicting the worst possible result. 
We find that the score and classification risk criteria 
ranking values are consistent for every element in the  
NPD project. 
The risk criteria are standardized for the NPD 
project team members who are familiar with FMEA 
evaluation technique. The evaluation process is 
integrated and consistent for NPD life cycle. At 
preliminary design stage, each score of time, cost, 
and performance are evaluated for elements,  
subsystems, and systems. 
3.2 Model building 
The risk analysis model can be described as  
follows: 
Each element has different severity, occurrence, 
and correlation score by the technology, cost and 
schedule category. For element i, i =1, 2, 3...i. For 
risk category j, j=1（technology）,2（cost）,3
（schedule）. For generation number n, n=1, 2, 3...n. 
The corresponding decision variables are: 
Si,j≣ score of severity item j to be produced at 
element i 
Fi,j≣ score of occurrence item j to be produced at 
element i 
wi,j≣ score of correlation item j to be produced at 
element i 
Wi,j≣ score of correlation matrix 1~j to be produced 
at element i 
xi,j≣ score of risk item j to be produced at element i 
Xi≣ score of overall risk item matrix 1~j to be 
produced at element i 
Gi(n)≣ overall risk score of generation n of element 
i  
We will to minimize some combination of risk 
score difference and risk ranking to select the best 
element 1 and 2. Then a multivariable non-linear  
programming model is: 
Minimize∣(G1(n)- G2(n))∣（risk score difference）    
（1） 
Minimize Gi(n)（risk ranking）        （2） 
Setup constraints and calculation 
xi,j ＝ Si,j × Fi,j 
Xi,j ＝ [xi,1 , xi,2 , xi,3 ] ＝ [Si,1× Fi,1 , Si,2 × Fi,2 , Si,3 
× Fi,3 ] 
Wi,j＝[wi,1 , wi,2 , wi,3]T 
Σ(j=1~3) wi,j ＝ 1 ,i＝1~i 
)(
3,
)(
2,
)(
1,
)(
,)1(
, n
i
n
i
n
i
n
jin
ji WWW
W
W ++=
+
，i＝1~n, j＝1~3 
Gi ＝Σ(j=1~3) Xi,j × Wi,j 
The limitation of associated decision variables: 
1 ≦ Si,j ≦ 10 
1 ≦ Fi,j ≦ 10 
1 ≦ wi,j ≦ 10 
0 ＜ |Wi,j |≦ 1 
1 ≦ xi,j ≦ 100  
1 ≦ Gi(n) ≦ 100 
 Where Si,j, Fi,j, wi,j are positive integer between 1 to 
10. 
Genetic Algorithm method for combining 
solutions of the population is known as selections, 
mutations, and crossovers. Each generation of 
individual elements has parent characteristics or 
genes. Initial design for every element is an initial 
 6
developed on a Borland Delphi 6, based on Microsoft 
Window platform. Delphi was and still is the best 
combination of object-oriented programming and 
visual programming for Windows. Cantù M. [17] 
adopted Delphi to supports database applications in 
the programming environment. Therefore, we can 
easily write data-access code for the populations. 
The model consists of 2 work forms within a 
single Delphi execution file and a Borland Database 
Engine originated with Paradox file. The model 
attempts to capture the respective element’s 
characteristic using cost, schedule, and performance 
requirement. We first build up the interdependent 
WBS elements relation for identification. There are 2 
work forms in the software. Work form 1 is intended 
to input the 2 element’s parameters that establish 
interdependency between WBS elements. Each 
WBS-element is evaluated the same severity, 
occurrence and correlation risk scores evaluation 
criteria of its respective items. By scrolling down the 
individual dialog box, the user can easily input 9   
items value for individual element and get 8 outputs  
as in Figure 3. 
 
Figure 3. Risk scores of element 1 and 2 inputs  
of integrated risk analysis model 
User can check the output values directly from 
the work form 1 to make sure the design concept is 
conformed to the design requirement. The risk scores 
are expressed as cost, schedule, performance, and 
overall risk status for WBS-element. The output 
values can help the designer of 2 elements to think 
over and redesign the interface and function between 
two elements. If the result of work form1 is 
acceptable, user can go to work form 2 for Genetic  
Algorithm calculations. 
In work form 2, user input 2 WBS-element 
parameters input database as parent chromosomes for 
Genetic Algorithm technique search. The correlation 
characteristic has been merged with occurrence 
characteristic for simplification. It will generate the  
element 1, 2 risk score output values: 
z Element 1, 2, and minimum risk score of 
individual child generation risk score table for 100  
Ge generation ranked by generation 
z Element 1, and minimum risk score of 
individual child generation risk score table for 100 
generation ranked by element 1 overall risk score 
z Element 2, and minimum risk score of 
individual child generation risk score table for 100 
generation ranked by element 2 overall risk score 
z Element 1, 2, and minimum risk score of 
individual child generation risk score chart for 100  
Ge generation ranked by generation 
The output table and chart are to help user to 
clarify the 2 elements possible and best combinations. 
The model is designed to choose optimum 
combination of 2 elements characteristic without any 
constraints. In fact, designers have to consider lots of 
restrictions from the real world. So, designers can 
review and change the element’s characteristic then 
to select another element’s best characteristic from 3  
tables and a chart. 
4. Case application －The turbo fan engine 
development project 
4.1 Engine Electronic Control  
Overall Risk Management model was developed 
from model building and software implementation. 
To address the model effectively, we arranged for a 
field test at a turbo fan engine development 
department in Taichung, Taiwan. The department 
tried to assess the risk of Engine Electronic Control 
(EEC) development project using the risk evaluation  
model. 
EEC is the primary interface between the engine 
and the aircraft. The pilot controls the throttle and 
fuel switches in the cockpit, then EEC receives the 
signals from throttle, and fuel switches position, and 
engine information, and flight conditions and delivers 
several outputs to control the engine. Treager, I. E. 
[18] showed EEC affects the engine in the following  
manner: 
Improving the efficiency of engine operation for  
different flight condition: 
z Enhancing engine control functions 
 8
schedule, and quality, and/ or technological 
performance, and contract relationships, etc. Project 
members can assessment the risk of the element 
during NPD life cycle. We can see the different 
design concept that make for the different overall risk 
score for EEC risk identification, qualitative risk 
analysis, quantitative risk analysis, and risk response 
planning as shown in Table 4. Project team members 
can discuss and revise the function of elements by the 
interdependent elements overall risk score. 
It is very important that a risk assessment is 
established early in the NPD project. It can reduce or 
eliminate the design change of implementing 
preventive and corrective actions. The project 
members can tradeoff between the various objectives 
and reallocate between the resources for optimum 
concept design. By the way, designer can focus on 
the worst condition from the risk assessment to refine 
the design and monitor others conditions. If optimum 
design performance is to be achieved, the assembly 
element should be a minimized risk score. 
Table 4. Risk scoring summary sheet of  
integrated risk analysis model 
Risk Score WBS 
No. 
WBS 
Item 
Configu
ration 
Techn
ical 
Sched
ule 
Cost Overa
ll 
Original 56 56 30 50.5 0001 CPU 
Board 
Revised 42 30 35 34.8 
Original 24 40 12 28.2 0002 I/O 
Board 
Revise 21 30 12 23 
Original 10.7/
17.6 
14.3/
26.5 
2/ 6.3 27/ 
50.5 
0010 EEC 
Assy. 
Revised 8.6/ 
13.2 
9.7/ 
14.2 
2/ 7.4 20.4/
34.8 
In this case, we adjusted the parameters of risk 
analysis model to be used within the characteristics 
of the project. There are several parameters that can 
be corrected: generation, objective function, 
population, selection condition, crossover condition,  
mutation condition, and constraints. 
Our experience and the engine development 
department suggested that it is not possible to 
predefine a universal set of risk parameters without 
historical information and expert experience. The 
criteria and parameters of model should be redefined 
for different NPD project and firms characteristics. 
The risk evaluation model is not valid for all projects 
with the same criteria and parameters. Moreover, the 
current model lacks of the flexibility to setup 
corresponding parameters with more than two 
interdependent WBS elements to calculate the overall  
risk score. 
5. Conclusions 
The risk analysis model is a data based tool with 
specific view of the causes and quantified effects of 
technology, schedule, and cost risk. It attempts to 
help NPD project team members estimate risk 
margins for proposals that is submitted to project 
member, executive, or customer. Moreover, it can 
build a flexible guideline that permit rapid change in  
element configuration. 
The model contains several useful features that 
NPD can be used implement risk analysis. It can 
supply the technological performance, schedule, cost 
risk score, and overall risk score for specific 
interdependent elements. Project member allocates 
the resources at preliminary design stage in lieu of 
design change at detail design and/ or production 
stage. Trend and best combination of specific 
interdependent elements can be developed during  
concept design stage. 
Past experience has shown that FMEA and GA 
are the most widely used and well accepted by firms. 
We conclude that the risk analysis model can be 
viewed as risk simulation within NPD project 
implement. The model can incorporate FMEA 
technique to qualitative and quantitative risk analysis  
of NPD product. 
6.References 
1. Cooper, L. P. (2003). A research agenda to reduce 
risk in new product development through knowledge 
management: a practitioner perspective. Journal of 
Engineering and Technology Management Vol: 20,  
Issue: 1-2, 117-140. 
2. Brown, S.L., Eisenhardt, K.M. (1995). Product 
development: past research, present findings, and 
future directions. Academy of Management Review,  
343-378. 
3. McDonough, E.F. (2000). Investigation of factors 
contributing to the success of cross-functional teams. 
Journal of Product Innovation Management, 221-235. 
4. Tummala, V. R., Mak, C.L. (2001). A risk 
management model for improving operation and 
maintenance activities in electricity transmission. 
Journal of the Operational Research Society, 52:  
125-134. 
 10
一、研究內容與原計畫相符程度 
    本研究之內容與原研究計畫相符，結合並精進失效模式與效應分析法及遺傳演算法此
二種技術，順利完成為改良型之整合風險評估模式，且達成預期之研究目的。 
二、達成預期目標情況 
本研究已達成預期目標，此研究之主要目的乃針對新產品研發階段，採用改良 FMEA 及
遺傳演算法技術，將各項風險因素予以定性、定量評量並建立零件最佳化風險特性模式。
以應用於引擎電子控制器設計為例，證明可於初步設計階段，協助研發團隊進行產品功能
之整體最佳化設計，減少後續相關矯正改善等作為。 
三、研究成果之學術或應用價值 
    新產品於研發階段已決定整個生命週期近 85%物料、製程及裝備成本，因此及早進行
資源最佳化管理，可提高產品競爭能力。將此風險管理知識擴散傳承至組織各部門以及應
用於各研發專案，可作為組織知識管理及滿足客戶需求之重要參考依據。 
四、是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利 
    本計畫研究部份成果已發表於產業管理創新研討會，並投稿於國際期刊 International 
Journal of Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Technology Management。可供學術研究參考。 
五、主要發現或其他有關價值 
    本研究架構了一套整合績效、成本與時程風險評估模式，協助管理階層及設計團隊以
協同設計管理理念進行產品最佳化設計，先期採取改善預防措施來減少設計變更等作為，
使產品能如期、如質、如預算推出，以符合顧客市場之需求。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
