digital cameras, cell phone cameras, and hard disk 
drives due to VCM 
merits of lightweight, cheap price, and good 
repeatability. Both ultrasonic 
motors and voice coil motors are promising actuators 
for servo control 
and worth research. This project will be conducted 
for two years. Based 
on magnetic circuit characteristics of VCM and graph 
theory, the first 
year will enumerate and generate innovative VCM 
designs. To screen 
VCMs of easy miniaturization for camera autofocusing 
usage and 
superb actuation capability among numerous designs 
that have been 
enumerated, this study will carry out a flow value 
method and genetic 
algorithm for comparison. The first year of this 
project will establish a 
systematic method for VCM innovative design. 
Now that innovative designs for VCM are created in 
the first year, the 
second year of this project aims to expedite VCM 
response time and 
shorten camera focusing time. Hence, this project 
will further design a 
shorted turn in addition to coils in the original 
magnetic circuit of VCM 
that is created in the first year of this project. 
The additional shorted turn 
will decrease the inductance effect of coils. The 
resistance and 
inductance in series effect of the coil will thus 
become closer to pure 
resistance, which expedites current response and 
increase acceleration. 
The theoretical model of VCM with shorted turn will 
be derived. 
Computer simulation will be carried out to 
investigate transient response. 
Finite element method will be conducted to compare 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abstract—This research designs and fabricates a voice coil 
motor with shorted turn for positioning control experiment and 
uses laser displacement sensor to measure the displacement. 
Sliding-mode-based fuzzy control is developed to carry out 
positioning control of a moving component in the voice coil motor. 
According to experimental results, the motor with shorted turn 
in positioning requires less voltage input and generates longer 
stroke. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Voice coil motors are widely used in the industry owing 
to their advantages of light weight, lowest price and good 
repeatability as digital camera and mobile phone camera. The 
fixed part of the voice coil motor is a permanent magnet and 
the moving part is the coil. This study aims to fast move the 
coil so that the move time can be shortened. To that end, this 
research places a copper tube (shorted turn) in the outer 
moving coil. The objective is that an effective inductance seen 
by the coil is drastically reduced, thus making the coil act 
more like a resistive element instead of a 
resistance-inductance circuit. Accordingly, the coil current 
rises quickly, providing a greater accelerating force right from 
the start. This theoretical derivation and study computer 
simulation to investigate controller performance and response. 
In the magnetic field analysis, this study uses finite element 
method to analyze the voice coil motor. In addition, 
concerning positioning control, this research uses state 
feedback control to compare with fuzzy control and sliding 
mode control to compensate the mechanism, respectively. We 
carried out  Matlab simulation and analysis and shorten the 
settling time. Wagner [1] proposed shorted turns in a linear 
actuator that is analyzed using a transformer circuit model in a 
disk drive. Data seeking is achieved within minimum time 
when the coil current acts in a bang-bang mode and changing 
state rapidly. Wagner [2] also presented moving coil actuators 
for a disk drive that is simulated to study the effect of 
parameter variations on average access time. Empirical 
formulas yield the optimum force factor for a specified stroke 
length and access time. Barton [3] proposed shorted turn 
solutions to illustrate that the field distortion near the coil is 
such that the shorted turn can be identified by near field 
measurements. Moser [4] presented the shorted turn that 
modifies the low frequency behavior of both impedance and 
transfer function between coil currents and VCM torques. The 
model is validated with measurement of impedance frequency 
response functions and agreement is good in all except the 
lowest frequencies. 
 
II. VOICE COIL MOTOR WITH SHORTED TURN 
In a voice coil motor, the actuation force to a moving part is 
directly proportional to the coil current. Therefore, it is desired 
that the current rises quickly and shorten the access time to 
expedite system response. One way to accomplish this 
condition is to place a copper tube (shorted turn) concentric to 
the moving coil as shown in Fig. 3.1. When a voltage is 
applied to the coil, flux in the magnet circuit induces a high 
current in the copper sleeve in such a way as to retard the 
increasing flux. The result is that an effective inductance seen 
by the coil is drastically reduced, thus making the coil act 
more like a resistive element instead of a 
resistance-inductance circuit. As a consequence, the current 
rises quickly, providing a greater actuation force right from 
the start.  
 
                
 
Fig. 1. VCM with shorted turn. 
 
A. Shorted Turn Model 
Fig. 2 depicts a shorted turn model based on a transformer  
circuit. According to Kirchhoff’s law in Fig. 2(d), we may 
obtain electric circuit equations 
12 11 12
( / )( ) ( ) ( ) ( )c sc c c v
di d ie t R i t L L L K v t
dt dt
             
(1) 
2
12 12 22
( / )0 ( / ) ( )c ss s
di d iR i L L L
dt dt
              (2) 
where the quantities with the subscript c  refer to those for 
the primary coil and s  refer to those for the shorted turn, 
ce  is the input voltage for the primary coil, cR  is  the 
primary coil resistance, ci  is the current in the primary coil, 
11L  is the self-inductance of the primary coil, 12L  is the 
mutual inductance between the primary coil and the shorted 
turn, vK  is voltage constant, ( )v t  is the velocity of the 
movable coil, sR  is the shorted turn resistance, 22L  is the 
self-inductance of the shorted turn, si  is the current in the 
 A VCM is shown in Fig. 3, which includes yoke, shorted 
turn, primary coil and magnets. The magnetic design includes 
a copper tube (shorted turn) in the outer moving coil. 
Therefore, the third-type voice coil motor has advantages, a 
good magnetic shielding, great magnetic flux density and 
large thrust force. In the VCM, the coil has 200 laps. The coil 
resistance and current are 7.9Ω and 6A, respectively　　. 
The thrust force of coil is calculated as 1.027N. The mass of 
moving parts (the coil and the lens holder) are 5.65g and the 
shorted turn is 6.36g. The thrust force is sufficient to 
overcome gravity to make the moving part move. Flux lines of 
this VCM design are shown in Fig. 4. Magnetic field 
distribution and magnetic-flux density distribution are shown 
in Figs. 5 and 6, respectively. 
 
 
Fig. 3. Magnetic circuit schematic of this design. 
 
 
Fig. 4. Flux lines of this VCM design. 
 
 
Fig. 5. Magnetic field distribution of this VCM design. 
 
 
Fig. 6. Magnetic-flux density distribution of this VCM design. 
 
 
III.  SLIDING MODE APPROACH TO FUZZY CONTROL 
This study creates a linguistic system to design fuzzy 
control, for which sliding modes are used to determine 
parameters in control rules.The design procedure is to first 
specify the response  ecePd ,  on the phase plane and 
then design a fuzzy controller to achieve this response. To 
carry out the fuzzy control method, control action is 
formulated on a partition plane depicted in Fig. 7. Finally, 
values of 12 parameters ijp , 4,,1 i , 2 ,1 ,0j  are 
determined such that both desired reaching and sliding 
conditions can be satisfied to ensure robustness. To determine 
these values, rD , rE , and rF , 9 ,7 ,3 ,1r  are made 
equal to 12 parameters ijp . In addition, control actions in 
these four regions are linear functions that facilitate the 
determination of parameters. Control actions in the four 
quadrants can be written as 
 
                        ccr wu
                     
(13) 
 
where  rrrcr FED , 9 7, ,3 ,1r , and 
 ecewc 1 . cr  consists of elements ijp . Moreover, 
switching functions are defined as  
eces    
                       (14) 
which is shown in Fig. 7, where   is a positive constant. It 
is seen that the switching function is located in the second and 
fourth quadrants. From Eq. (14), error dxxe  , where x  
denotes the current value, dx  denotes the target value. And 
error change ec  denotes the current error minus the error at 
the previous time. If the time is vary short, ec  can take as 
the slope of e . In other words, ec  can take as e . 
Therefore, Eq. (14) becomes 
ees                    
(15) 
If t , and 0e ,    txtx d . 
e
ec
PXe ~ NXe ~
NXec ~
PXec ~
ees  
 
Fig. 7. Switching function s on phase plane. 
     In this study, x  denotes the current displacement, dx  
denotes the target displacement. To achieve precise position 
control, where the target displacement is 1mm in the system. 
Therefore, e  denotes the current amplitude, e  denotes the 
current velocity of the system. The control target is 0s , 
because 0s  denotes that 0e  and 0e . It means 
there is precise position control in the system, which is the 
ideal condition. Hence, we observe the trajectory on the phase 
  
Fig. 12. Cross section of lateral VCM with shorted turn. 
 
 
Fig. 13. Mechanism design of VCM with shorted turn.  
 
 
Fig. 14. Photo of VCM with shorted turn. 
 
B. Measurement Result 
In the experiment apparatus, the voice coil motor is 
turned on using a switch in power supply, which provides 
voltage to VCM. By adjusting input voltage, this study 
compares VCMs without and with shorted turn. Figs. 15 and 
16 show measurement results in step response when input 
voltages are 2.5V and 3.0V, respectively. Hence, it is 
concluded that the stroke of VCM with shorted turn is larger 
than without shorted turn when supply voltages are the same. 
Because of the design of shorted turn, the moving part of 
VCM can have a greater stroke in the transient response. 
 
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
Time (s)
D
is
pl
ac
em
en
t (
m
m
)
without shorted turn
with shorted turn
 
Fig. 15. Measurement result in step response when input voltage is 2.5V. 
 
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
Time (s)
D
is
pl
ac
em
en
t (
m
m
)
without shorted turn
with shorted turn
 
Fig. 16. Measurement result in step response when input voltage is 3.0V. 
 
C. Control Experiment Result 
The control block diagram is shown in Fig. 17. The 
control method is computed in PC, and through AD/DA card 
output voltage to the diver (current amplifier) to drive the 
VCM. The moving part of VCM is moved by electromagnetic 
force. A laser displacement sensor is used to measure 
displacement and transfer acquisition data to a personal 
computer. Figs. 18 and 20 show positioning control 
experiment result of stroke 0.8mm and input signal 
measurement result. Fig. 19 shows experimental result of 
0.8mm stroke which extends time axis to steady state. Figs. 21 
and 23 show positioning control experimental result (1.0mm 
stroke) and input signal measurement result. Fig. 22 shows 
positioning control experiment result (1.0mm stroke) which 
extend time axis to steady state. We conclude that responses 
of VCM with shorted turn and without shorted turn are both 
similar, but VCM with shorted turn can arrive at the same 
location by lower input signal. 
 
 
 
Fig. 17. Block diagram for position control experiment. 
 
  
 2
都著力於致動器(actuator)，而材料系和電機系則致力於感測器(sensor) ，兩者
當然都很重要，值得研究。 
 
 
 
 
 
 4
 
二、 與會心得 
 
 
本屆大會 ICST2011 有 200 多篇的投稿論文，主要在感測器、材料、量測、物理、
光學與光電等領域。大會主席 Subhas Mukhopadhyay 是印度裔，在美國電機電子學會感測
領域著有聲望，曾經兩度來台灣成大工程科學系講學，與我國學者友好，去年趁他來
新竹交大曾經，邀請我加入技術委員會(Technical Programme Committee)成為委員，
得以讓台灣在國際學術界有發言權。明年度的會議將在印度舉行。綜觀看來這是一次
成功的國際研討會。感謝國科會經費支助得以成行。 
 
 
三、建議 
國際學術會議對於大學的國際化和台灣的能見度都有幫助。感謝國科會工程處的補
助，得以成行。希望未來繼續補助繼續推動 。 
 
 
 
四、攜回資料名稱 
攜回大會議程暨大會論文集CD 。 
 
 
 
 
 6
Weak Accept (4) 
 
 
*** Technical Quality: How would you rate the technical quality of this paper? 
Weak Accept (4) 
 
 
*** Presentation: How would you rate the presentation of this paper? 
Weak Accept (4) 
 
 
*** Overall Rating: Do you recommend acceptance or rejection? 
Weak Accept (4) 
 
======= Review 2 ======= 
 
 
*** Guidance for Authors: Please describe in detail main paper contributions, positive aspects, observed 
deficiencies, and suggestions on how to improve them: 
 
A novel method for determining refractive index of transparent liquids is presented. The method is explained in 
good detail with some sample results. The advantages of this technique over other existing methods are not clearly 
emphasised. There are a number of grammatical errors throughout the paper that should be addressed. 
 
 
*** Originality: How would you rate the originality of the paper? 
Accept (5) 
 
 
*** Significance of Topic: Is this topic significant to ICST 2010? 
Accept (5) 
 
 
*** Technical Quality: How would you rate the technical quality of this paper? 
Weak Accept (4) 
 
 
*** Presentation: How would you rate the presentation of this paper? 
Weak Accept (4) 
 
 
*** Overall Rating: Do you recommend acceptance or rejection? 
 8
Refractive Index Measurement  
Using Laser Diffractometer 
 
Chih-Chieh Hsu 
Department of Mechanical Engineering 
National Chiao Tung University 
Hsinchu, Taiwan 
johnson0824@msn.com 
Tzong-Shi Liu 
Department of Mechanical Engineering 
National Chiao Tung University 
Hsinchu, Taiwan 
tsliu@mail.nctu.edu.tw
 
 
Abstract—For refractive index measurement, this paper presents 
a new method based on a laser diffractometer, in which a 
reflective diffraction beam coincides with an incident beam. 
Calculation by using the angle of a reentry beam, grating pitch, 
and laser wavelength yields the refractive index. Based on a 
Littrow configuration, grating pitch measurement and 
immersion diffractometry are implemented to determine the 
refractive index of transparent liquids such as water, oil, and 
translucent liquids mixed with particles. Experimental results are 
presented to demonstrate variation in solution composition and 
the refractive index.  
Keywords: Laser diffractometer; Refractive index; Littrow 
configuration; Immersion diffraction 
 INTRODUCTION  
No matter in the optics-related field, pharmaceutical, 
chemical industry, or product monitoring, the liquid refractive 
index is an important optical property. Laser diffractometers 
provide excellent measurement repeatability in applying to the 
calibration of grating pitch [2,3,4,5,8]. In addition to research 
in pitch measurements, using laser diffractometer or 
interferometer to measure the liquid’s refractive index is also a 
breakthrough [6,9,13]. There were many methods for refractive 
index measurements early, such as Sarov et al., using their 
refractometers by Abbe number and critical-angle [11]. 
Castrejón-Pita used the total internal reflection to conduct their 
refractive index measurement [1]. With the development of 
new technologies, the accuracy requirements of liquid’s 
refractive index are becoming increasingly important. However, 
there are some constraints in the above measurement methods, 
such as the range of measuring volume is restricted, restrictions 
on the sample and test conditions are too excessive, complex 
and demanding for the equipment design and operation 
environments. Thus, Lu’s research team used immersion in 
diffraction technique [6]. By the method of immersion, it not 
only can overcome the diffraction limit of one-half laser 
wavelength but measure the refractive index of liquid. These 
experiments had successfully measured the amounts of the 
refractive index of liquid, but also with very good measurement 
results. However, these experiments have several 
disadvantages. First, signals are more susceptible to 
interference; the other is the measurement resolution is poor. 
We combine of measurement techniques for grating pitch, and 
liquid immersion technology to calculate the refractive index of 
the liquid. Light diffraction is a generally well-known physical 
phenomenon. This paper is based Littrow principle, to produce 
a reflective diffractive beam which coincides with the incident 
beam. And take the amount of diffraction angle by position 
sensitive detector (PSD) with high precision positioning rotary 
table, wavelength of laser source and pitch of diffraction 
grating. The refractive index of environmental media is 
available after calculating formula. In addition to correction 
pitch of nano products, laser diffraction was also an important 
instrument of the refractive index measurement. This study 
proposes a new method combined with the Littrow 
configuration, grating pitch measurement and immersion 
diffractometry. We use the standard grating of period 833 nm 
with the method mentioned above to determine the refractive 
index of immersion liquids such as water, oil and others 
transparent liquids, confirm the feasibility of this approach and 
also highlight the measurement of this system has many 
benefits like simple structure, highly repetitive and higher 
accuracy. 
METHODS 
Grating and Laser Diffractometer 
Grating is a profit in the diffraction and interference of the 
wave optics principle. Grating is a component with collecting 
the reflected light (or transmitted light) to obtain experimental 
information. By the virtue of industries and academics put off 
to study, grating’s pitch has been able to achieve the scale of 
nano-level. When laser beam injects into a grating, it will 
produce a number of diffraction light of different orders. In 
analyzing the grating, the grating is seem as a combination of 
many single-slit. While the individual light on the slit points 
can be regarded as new sources of light. Respectively, each 
new light source generates its own wave-front, and every wave 
interfere each others, there are the interference result seeing on 
the observation screen we can see. But the optical path 
difference (OPD) of the point light source to the observation 
plane is different to each other, and there is much constructive 
interference to format many diffraction spots on the imaging 
plane. To classify gratings from its direction of the diffraction 
beam, diffraction gratings in general can generally be classified 
into two kinds: transmission grating and reflective grating. 
When the beam directions of incident and diffraction are not 
the same side, it’s called the transmission-type grating. The 
 10
After obtaining the immersion diffraction angle, with the 
laser light source with known wavelength λ and the grating’s 
pitch P, the Eq. (3) of the Littrow diffraction configuration can 
be rewritten as 


sin2P
mn                                 （4） 
 
where n and m denote the refractive index of immersion liquid 
and the number of diffraction’s order, respectively. 
 
EXPERIMENT DESIGN AND CONFIGURATION 
Laser Diffractometer 
 
Figure 3. A laser diffractometer assembled on the precision rotating table. 
 
In order to establish the laser diffraction technique of the 
refractive index measurement of liquid, we must first to do 
calibration of the laser diffractometer and determine the 
diffraction grating pitch. Experimental architecture (Figure 3) 
combines a green light He-Ne laser with 543 nm wavelength 
(1), a high-precision positioning rotary platform (PRT, 5), a 
four-quadrant position sensitive detector (PSD, 6), four-axis 
adjustment device (4), and a circular transparent container; the 
above-mentioned devices will be placed on the vibration 
isolation platform. The PSD will make signal of spot position 
output to the industrial computer for processing.  
In this study, the composition of optical path are 
polarization beam splitter (PBS, 2), two mirrors and a quarter 
phase retard plate (QP, 3) to form an optical measurement 
system. The He-Ne laser of 543 nm wavelength through the 
mirrors group and through the polarized beam splitter after, 
p-polarization of light will penetrate but s-polarization of light 
will be reflected to the right side. When the linearly 
p-polarization light through the quarter phase retard plate, it 
will become a circularly polarization light, aiming at the 
sample placed on the four-axis adjustment device. Then 
rotating the high-precision positioning rotary platform, when it 
meets the Littrow configuration, the diffraction beam will 
follow the original optical path back, and through the quarter 
phase retard plate again, turn into the linearly polarization light 
and it have a 90 degrees polarized. Then this linearly 
polarization light will be reflected by PBS to the four-quadrant 
position sensitive detector. In usually the intensity of diffracted 
light is not such high, and higher-order diffraction lights is 
more difficult to detect by PSD’s sensor. But the use of this 
optical path design, it will be able to effective use of light 
energy; to avoid diffraction lights generated by the grating 
cannot be detected by the PSD’s sensor. In the determining 
grating’s pitch, it must to make precision rotating platform’s 
degree to zero and adjust the four-quadrant position sensitive 
detector first, so the center of the detector and the reflecting 
zero-order diffraction light spot are coincidence. We can use 
this position as a reference point for the measurement of space. 
Then we control the computer software to operate the 
high-precision positioning rotary platform. Input a positive 
angle, the high-precision positioning rotary platform will 
clockwise rotate until a first-order diffraction spot and the 
center of PSD’s sensor coincide. This rotation angle is named 
1 . Similarly, counter-clockwise rotation of the platform can 
find a negative first-order diffraction angle, 1 . After taking 
the average of these two angles, we can obtain 
average . 
Substituting it into Eq. (3) can calculate the pitch of this 
grating.  
 
Figure 4. A diffraction grating immersed in the test liquid. 
 
Refractive Index of Liquid 
In order to avoid the concerns of total internal reflection 
and refractions, we use an idea from geometrical optics 
combined with the diffraction technique for measuring the 
refractive index of liquid, as shown in Figure 4. In this study, 
we use two He-Ne lasers of 543 and 633 nm wavelengths to 
achieve the refractive index measurements of pure water and 
several liquid at 20℃. 
 
Here comes an extension structure of the laser 
diffraction in the previous section, a diffraction grating placed 
in the center of a circular container so that the diffraction 
grating plane coincides with the center of a circle. As the 
container has not yet added the liquid medium, the pitch 
measured in the air at the this time will be the standard value 
in the following experiments; after measuring the standard 
value of pitch, then add the liquid into the container, we can 
start measuring the diffraction angle of different liquids. 
 
Because of the incident laser beam will be reflected to 
the quarter phase retard plate by the polarization beam splitter, 
so that the linear polarized light will change into circular 
polarized light, then circular polarized light through the 
container without refractive effect and be arrival the grating 
soaked in the medium. We use the adjusted four-quadrant 
 12
1.33175
1.33180
1.33185
1.33190
1.33195
1.33200
1.33205
1.33210
1.33215
1.33220
0 2 4 6 8 10
Times
In
de
x
Water
Sliver Colloid
Gold Colloid
 
Figure 6. Refractive index with 633nm wavelength laser 
 
1.33400
1.33410
1.33420
1.33430
1.33440
1.33450
1.33460
1.33470
1.33480
1.33490
1.33500
0 2 4 6 8 10
Times
In
de
x
Water
Sliver Colloid
 
Figure 7. Refractive index with 543nm wavelength laser 
 
 
REFRACTIVE INDEX OF TRANSLUCENT SOLUTIONS IN 20˚C 
 
 
1.3325
1.3330
1.3335
1.3340
1.3345
1.3350
1.3355
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16
Times
In
de
x
100 nm
300 nm
500 nm
900 nm
AVG. 1.33467
 
Figure 8. Refractive index of particle solution with 543nm wavelength laser 
1.3295
1.3300
1.3305
1.3310
1.3315
1.3320
1.3325
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16
Times
In
de
x
100 nm
300 nm
500 nm
900 nm
AVG. 1.33154
 
Figure 9. Refractive index of particle solution with 633nm wavelength laser 
 
 
REFRACTIVE INDEX OF NACL SOLUTIONS (1M) BY TWO WAVELENGTHS 
 
 
1.340
1.345
1.350
1.355
1.360
1.365
1.370
1.375
1.380
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
Concentration (M)
In
de
x
NaCl (aq)
 
Figure 10. Refractive index of NaCl solution with 543nm wavelength light 
source 
 
CONCLUSION 
This study used a horizontal rotary platform with superior 
angular resolution and automatic measurement to avoid the 
defect of vertical rotary platforms. The application of laser 
diffractometers is extensive, and measuring the refractive 
index of liquid is effective and accurate by using LD. Unlike 
other refractometers of interferometry and critical angle, this 
measurement principle is based on the Littrow configuration, 
in which a reflective diffraction beam coincides with an 
incident beam. The use of optical components is 
uncomplicated and substitution of measurement equation is 
simple. The measurement repeatability is higher than other 
systems. This study has presented the diffraction angle 
detection and diffractometry for measuring the refractive 
index of liquids. 
 14
 
99年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：呂宗熙 計畫編號：99-2221-E-009-020-MY2 
計畫名稱：對焦用音圈馬達之創意設計與定位控制 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 ■洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
Lai, L. K. and Liu, T. S., ＇Design of Compact Linear Electromagnetic Actuator 
for Auto-focusing in Phone Camera,＇ Vol. 47, No. 12, pp.4740-4744, IEEE Transactions 
on Magnetics, 2011.  
 
Lai, L. K. and Liu, T. S., ＇Design of Auto-Focusing Modules in Cell Phone 
Cameras,＇ International Journal of Smart Sensing and Intelligent Systems, Vol. 4, 
No. 4, pp. 568-582, 2011. 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
音圈馬達是相機鏡頭模組裡的重要元件，擔任致動器的角色。隨著自動對焦、高倍數變焦、
以及攝影技術的進展，對於精準、快速之音圈致動器的需求也越來越高，因此值得研究音
圈馬達的設計與控制。本研究計畫的第一年利用列舉演算法，基於音圈馬達的特性，以圖
論的方式定義，並列出所有的磁路設計，且利用拓墣矩陣與流值方法，進行刪除同構與比
較磁能大小，在磁場分析方面，以有限元素方法分析音圈馬達之磁場，以達到最佳的致動
能力。最後，對磁路中的各個元件，考慮其不同形狀所造成的磁漏影響，從中選擇最好的
磁路設計，並且設計完成出新的磁路結構之手機相機音圈馬達。 
本研究計畫的第二年旨在使音圈馬達線圈的移動時間縮短，移動速度加快。為此，已經設
計了含短路圈之音圈馬達，短路圈位於線圈外側，目的是要大量降低線圈的電感效應，使
線圈的電阻-電感電路作用近乎於電阻電路，使電流響應更加快速，並使移動線圈能有更
大的加速力量。已經針對含短路圈之音圈馬達做理論推導，並對其系統性能與響應進行電
腦模擬。在磁場分析方面，以有限元素方法分析此音圈馬達之磁場。在定位控制方面，本
