 2
國科會專題研究計畫成果報告 
在碳化矽基板上以金屬有機氣相沉積法成長光檢測器 
與紫外光發光二極體之研究 
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-327 -021 
執行期限：96 年 8 月 1 日至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：梁財春 
共同主持人： 管鴻 
執行機構及單位名稱：國立高雄第一科技大學 光電工程研究所 
計畫參與人員：吳承修、鄭韋治 
 
一、中文摘要 
 
    磊晶技術的日趨成熟，氮化鎵中n-type
與p-type 摻雜的技術亦日漸完備，再加上許
多研究團隊也都先後發展出良好的n-type 
與p-type 之歐姆接觸與蕭特基接觸，使得氮
化鎵光電元件的應用範圍變得更加寬廣。
InGaN/GaN藍光LED 大多以藍寶石作為基
板，也因為sapphire的低導電性，使得元件
在製程上必須將P型與N型的電極製作在同一
側，此為水平式結構。另一方面，為了使得
元件能有更高的操作特性，降低金屬電極的
接觸電阻也是相當重要，將利用這些標準的
製程技術實現於InGaN/GaN 多層量子井藍光
二極體結構之晶片上面，最後並藉由光學量
測系統作進一步的元件特性分析與光學增益
的討論。 
    在光檢測器的分面本實驗主要是探討金
屬-半導體-金屬(MSM)元件結構之光檢測器
特性，金屬與半導體間之接觸，其接觸特性
若為蕭特基接觸，將可以使暗電流(漏電流)
降低，提升光暗電流比，另外，不同線寬的
MSM 元件，其光響應度和受光面積的相應關
係。我們發現利用鎳金屬來當作 MSM PD 電極
會比用鈦還要好。利用鎳來做 PD 元件，其亮
/暗電流比大約 2個數量級，另外改變元件線
寬/間距.從實驗中可以發現間距大/線寬細
的元件.其紫外/可見光比比較高用間距小/
線寬大的元件的元件，能有較佳的響應速度。  
 
關鍵字:金屬-半導體-金屬，蕭特基接觸，亮
/暗電流比，紫外/可見光比，磊晶，藍寶石
基板，歐姆接觸，蕭特基接觸，量子井。 
 
Abstract 
 
    Epitaxial technology matures GaN n-type 
and p-type doped technology has been steadily 
improved, with many research team has also 
developed a good n-type and p-type ohmic 
contacts and the Schottky contact GaN 
optoelectronic components makes the scope of 
the application becomes more broad. InGaN / 
GaN blue LED mostly on sapphire substrates. 
Because of the low conductivity of sapphire, 
making components in the system must be on 
the way P-type and N-type electrode production 
on the same side, this is the level structure . on 
the other hand, in order to make a higher 
component of the operation, lower metal 
Electrodes contact resistance is also very 
important to use these standards in the 
manufacturing process technology InGaN / GaN 
multiple quantum wells Blue LED structure of 
the chip above, and by the end of optical 
measurement system for further analysis of the 
components and optical gain discussion. 
    And then we will study of metal - 
semiconductor - metal (MSM) Photon detector, 
metal and semiconductor metal contacts 
between their wish to contact characteristics 
Schottky contacts, and this may enable dark 
current (leakage) lower,Upgrade light / dark 
current ratio.In addition, the MSM linewidth 
different components, the light response of the 
Light area and the corresponding relations.  
    Papers found in a study of the use of nickel 
metal electrode to as MSM PD will be even 
better than titanium. PD components make use 
of nickel. Its right / dark current ratio of about 
 4
導體的各種蕭特基特性研究和元件線寬的差
異。 
 
 
三、結果與討論 
圖二為磊晶後結構示意圖，在氮化鎵緩
衝層上覆蓋一層AlN，是為了要改善氮化鎵與
氮化鋁鎵晶格不匹配，因而改善原子排列的
錯位密度，其功用就像濾波器的效果，把晶
格不匹配的問題降低。 
    圖三為整個製作流程到量測的初淺流程
圖。圖四為DCXRD拍攝其氮化鋁鎵的晶格圖，
此設備只能量測單晶等結晶，可以看出結晶
的品質，其半高寬非常的小，結晶品質佳。
圖五是用原子力顯微鏡(AFM)拍出磊晶表面
結構，可以從圖觀察出，結晶表面平滑且缺
陷少。圖六和圖七為MSM光罩圖樣，其差別在
線寬跟間距不同，間距較細線寬較大如圖
六，間距較寬線寬較細如圖七，其響應速度
跟受光面積都有其相對的影響。圖八，圖九
分別為實驗中利用鎳和鈦來做為元件的金屬
電極，來研究氮化鋁鎵跟各金屬的蕭特基接
觸。每顆元件各量測三次，以證明其量測可
信度。其實驗結果為鎳的蕭特基接觸比鈦還
大，利用鎳來當金屬接觸，可以有效減輕暗
電流，並提升亮暗電流比 (如圖九)，其光電
流與暗電流相差兩個數量級，此為良好的光
暗電流比。接下來並用此金屬來製作不同線
寬/間距的元件，並且利用氙燈搭配光纖光柵
來產生不同波長的光照射再元件表面上，並
且經由I-V量測來收集元件產生的光電流。 
其光響應的結果顯示在圖十，從圖中可
以看出由於間距比較小，所以受光面積少，
其光強度比較低但是其線寬比較大，所以響
應度 快，故下降速度快，相反的，間距比較
大，受光面積大，光強度會比較大，但是線
寬相對減少，其響應度慢並影響著下降速度
也跟著慢。  
    
 
 
             
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖一.鋁含量增加導致截止波長藍移 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
圖二.磊晶結構示意圖 
 
 
 
 
                
 6
  
       
        圖七.為指叉狀PD圖形，間距大線寬小 
 
 
           圖八.為鈦金屬的蕭特基接觸 
 
 
          圖九.為鎳金屬的蕭特基接觸 
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖十.利用鎳電極製作的PD元件 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            圖十一.元件Responsivity 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 8
 
 
         圖十四-2.AFM的3D圖形 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      圖十五.為LED曝光光罩的總圖案 
                     
 
 
 
 
        圖十六: 電流 20mA ; LED 發光照片 
 
 
          圖十七.為 LED 製程後的示意圖 
 
 
       
 
 
         圖十八.為LEDI跟LEDII的I-V特性曲線 
 10
[3] J. K. Sheu, M. L. Lee, C. J. Tun, C. J. Kao, L. S. 
Yeh, S. J. Chang andG. C. Chi: IEEE J. Sel. 
Top. Quantum Electron 8 (2002) 767. 
[4]史國光”半導體發光二極體及固態照明”全華
出版社(2003) 
[5] Yan-Kuin Su*ab, An-Ting Chengab, Wei-Chi  
  Laic “Optical characterization of InGaN/GaN  
  multiple quantum well structures grown by  
  metalorganic chemical vapor deposition” SPIE  
  Vol. 6583658311-2(2007) 
[6] W. A.Harrison, Electronic Structure and 
Properties of solids,Freeman,San 
Francisco(1980) 
[7] J.K. Sheu, Y.K. Su, G.C. Chi, M.J. Jou, C.C.   
   Liu, C.M.   Chang,Solid-State Electron. 43   
   (1999) 2081. 
[8] E.Fred Schubert, ”LIGHT-EMITTING    
   DIODE” Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute(2003)    
   
[9] Y. Yao a, C. Jin a,b, Z. Dong b, Z. Sun a, S.M.   
Huang” Available online 29 April 2007 
[10] H. Hung, S.J. Chang, Y.C. Lin, H. Kuan and 
R.M. Lin IET Optoelectron. pp. 47-149(2007) 
[11] Shoou-Jinn Chang_, Hung Hung, Yi-Chao LIN, 
Ming-Hsien WU, Hon KUAN1, and Ray-Ming 
LIN2 Japanese Journal of Applied Physics 
   Vol. 46, pp. 2471-2473(2007) 
[12] E. Muiio E. ,M onroy , F. Calle ,E. Calleja , F. 
Omn&sb,B . Beaumont, and P. Gibad,1999 
IEEE 
[13] S.V. Averine, P.I.Kuznetzov, V.A.Zhitov, 
N.V.Alkeev, V.E.Lyubchenko Institute of 
Radio Engineering and Electronics Russian 
Academy of Science, Russia, 141190 
[14] Yan-Kuin Su, An-Ting Chengab, Wei-Chi   
   Laic “Optical characterization of InGaN/GaN   
   multiple quantum well structures grown by  
   metalorganic chemical vapor deposition” SPIE  
 Vol. 6583658311-2(2007) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fabrication and Characterization of Nitride Base 
Photodiodes with Nanostructure 
Abstract—In this study, we achieved nanoscale InGaN self-assembled Quantum Dots (SAQDs) in the well layers of the active 
region by using an interrupted growth method. And then Nitride base photodiodes with nanostructure were successfully 
fabricated by metal-organic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) growth.  
It was found that the turn on voltage in forward bias and the break down voltage in reverse bias are about 3 and -13.5 V, 
respectively. The RT PL spectrum peak position for the fabricated InGaN/GaN multi-QDs p–n junction PDs is located at 
464.6nm and FWHM is 24.2 nm. Furthermore, with 1V to 3V applied bias, the maximum responsivity of the fabricated 
multi-QDs p–n junction PD was observed at 350 nm, and the minimum of spectral response was measured at 465 nm. It was 
also found that the responsivity was nearly a constant from 390 to 440 nm It seems to suggest that the spectral response in the 
range of 390– 440nm is due to the effect of the InGaN dots in a well active layers. 
 
Keywords- MOCVD; nanostructure; Photodiodes; Quantum Dots; SAQDs 
 
 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
 
III nitride semiconductor materials have a wurtzite crystal structure and a direct energy band gap; it becomes possible 
to produce high performance solid-state PD arrays that are sensitive in the blue/UV region. Depending on device structure, 
nitride-based p–n junction diodes [1], p–i–n diodes [2, 3], p–π–n diodes [4], and Schottky barrier detectors [5] could all 
be used to detect blue/UV signals. Recently, low-dimensional carrier confinement nano -structures such as quantum wires 
and dots (or islands) are quite attractive for the application of optoelectronic devices. Laser diodes, light-emitting diodes 
and photodiodes with nanostructures show many particular properties and reveal novel physics. So far, there has been 
many literature on GaAs-based and Si-based nanostructural devices, however, since the room-temperature bandgap 
energy of Si is only 1.2 eV, the responsivity of Si photodiodes is low in the blue/UV region. In this report, we fabricated a 
p–n junction photodiodes device with nanostructures and discussed the characteristics of SAQDs PDs. 
 
II.  EXPERIMENT 
 
All InGaN QDs samples used in this study were all epitaxially grown on (0 0 0 1)-oriented 2-inch sapphire substrates 
(Al2O3) by a low pressure vertical metal-organic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) reactor with a high-speed rotation 
disk [6–9]. Trimethylgallium (TMGa), trimethylindium (TMIn), and ammonia (NH3) were used as the source materials of 
gallium, indium, and nitrogen, respectively. 
Prior to growth, sapphire substrates were thermally baked at 1100°C in hydrogen gas to remove surface 
contamination. After a 30-nm-thick low-temperature GaN nucleation layer was deposited onto the sapphire substrate at 
500°C, the temperature was raised to 1000°C to grow the Si-doped GaN buffer layer with a growth rate of 2 μm/h. 
During the growth of GaN buffer layer, the flow rate of TMGa was kept at 88 μmol/min while the flow rate of H2 carrier 
gas was kept at 10l/min. NH3 was used as a group V source with a flow rate of 4l/min, which corresponds to a V/III ratio 
of about 2000. The growth temperature was then reduced to 730°C to grow the InGaN layer. During the growth of the 
InGaN layer, the flow rates of TMGa and TMIn were kept at 10 and 35 μmol/min, respectively. The carrier gas was 
switched to N2 and we fixed the N2 carrier gas flow rate at 201/min. The flow rate of NH3 was 101/min. It should be 
noted that we introduced an interrupted growth method as shown in Fig. 1 [10] so as to achieve InGaN dots-in-a-well 
active layers. According to our calibration, the average indium composition in the InxGa1-xN layer should be around x = 
0.3. Knowing the lattice mismatch between InN and GaN equals 11%, the mismatch between In0..3Ga0.7N and underneath 
GaN buffer should be around 3.3% (∆a/a=11%×0.3=3.3%). In our experiment, the growth rate of InGaN layer is 
estimated to be 0.04 nm/s. In the MQD region, each InGaN/GaN pair consists a 2.4-nm-thick InGaN well layer and a 
15-nm-thick GaN barrier layer. The InGaN dots-in-a-well layers were unintentionally doped. After growth of active 
region, the substrate temperature was elevated to 1060°C again to grow the Mg-doped AlGaN cladding layer and 
Mg-doped GaN contact layer. In order to increase the indium incorporation rate, nitrogen was used as the carrier gas 
when we grew the InGaN/GaN MQD active regions; hydrogen was used as the carrier gas while we grew other parts of 
the sample. The growth pressure was kept at 350 m Torr throughout the growth. The as-grown samples were then 
annealed at 760°C for 25 min in N2 ambient to activate the Mg-doped p-type layers. With this thermal annealing process, 
we could achieve uniformly doped highly conductive p-type layers. After the growth, the surfaces of the as-grown 
samples were partially etched until the n-type GaN layers were exposed. Ni–Au contacts were subsequently evaporated 
onto the p-type GaN surfaces to serve as the pelectrodes, and Ti–Al–Ti–Au contacts were deposited onto the exposed 
n-type GaN layers to serve as the n-type electrodes, to complete the fabrication of the InGaN/GaN MQD PDs. 
表 Y04 
[7] S.J. Chang, C.H. Kuo, Y.K. Su, L.W. Wu, J.K. Sheu, T.C. Wen, W.C. Lai, J.F. Chen, J.M. Tsai, IEEE J. Sel. Top. Quant. vol. 8, no.4, p. 744, 
2002. 
[8] S.J. Chang, W.C. Lai, Y.K. Su, C.H. Ko, J.F. Chen, C.H. Liu, U.H. Liaw, IEEE J. Sel. Top. Quant. vol. 8, no.2, p. 278, 2002. 
[9] L.W.Wu, S.J. Chang, T.C. Wen, Y.K. Su, W.C. Lai, C.H. Kuo, C.H. Chen, J.K. Sheu, IEEE J. Quantum Electron. vol. 38, no. 5, p. 446, 2002. 
[10] L.W. Ji, Y.K. Su, S.J. Chang, L.W. Wu, T.H. Fang, J.F. Chen, T.Y. Tsai, Q.K. Xue, S.C. Chen, J. Cryst. Growth vol. 249, p. 144, 2003. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                        Fig. 1 Scheme showing the interrupted growth methods for InGaN SAQD samples. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
                                  Fig. 2. Schematic for InGaN/GaN MQD p–n junction photodiode 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3. XTEM picture of InGaN/GaN SAQD structure 
 
 
