1 Copyright © 2010 by ASME
Proceedings of 2010 ASME International Mechanical Engineering Congress & Exposition
IMECE 2010
November 12-18, 2010, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada
40816
DESIGN OF Z AXIS ACTUATOR & QUICK TOOL CHANGE ASSEMBLY
FOR AN ENDODONTIC MICRO ROBOT
Janet Dong
University of Cincinnati
Cincinnati, OH USA
Shane Y Hong
National Chiao Tung University
Hsinchu, Taiwan
ABSTRACT
Although the technology of endodontic therapy (root canal
treatment) had developed for many years, it is still operated by
hands. A typical treatment procedure includes access
preparation (opening crown with drills), root canal shaping and
cleaning, and then root canal filling. This treatment is
expensive, time-consuming, and prone to human error. The
outcome relies on the clinician’s skill, which is gained through
years of training and practice. The success quotient of this
treatment is 60-65% for general dentists and 90% for specialists
(endodontists). Therefore, an Advanced Endodontic Technology
Development project was initiated. The goal of this project is to
develop an intelligent micro robot and a computer aided
treatment system to execute the endodontic treatment
automatically. It is expected that this intelligent micro robot
system will overcome the problems encountered in current
treatment practice and increase the treatment accuracy and
efficiency.
This paper briefly describes the Advanced Endodontic
Technology Development project followed by the design of the
micro robot for the root canal treatment. The paper focuses on
the design of the Z axis actuator to control the treatment tool’s 
motion and quick tool change assembly in the micro robot.
INTRODUCTION
In the United States approximately 24 million teeth
undergo endodontic therapy every year [1]. Endodontic
treatment is performed to prevent a tooth from being a source of
infection. This treatment involves drilling through the crown of
the tooth to the canal in which the root resides. The nerve
pulp is then removed, the canal is cleaned and shaped, and then
a filler material is inserted into the cleaned canal. The hole
originally drilled into the tooth is then filled and sealed over.
Typically, endodontic treatment involves root canal preparation
and root filling. The root canal preparation, better known as
preparing the root canal for root filling, can be divided into
three phases: (1) access preparation, (2) coronal canal
preparation, and (3) apical canal preparation. Figure 1 shows
canal characteristics and the three phases in canal preparation
for a posterior tooth.
Straight-line access stop point
Apical constriction
Canal orifice
Zero reference plane
Apical canal preparation
Straight-line access preparation
or
coronal canal preparation
Coronal access preparation
The endodontic access preparation is to create an
unimpeded passageway to the pulpal space and the apical
Crown
Chamber
Root
Root
Figure 1. Canal Characteristics and Three Phases in Root
Canal Treatment Preparation
(a) (b) (c) (d)
Figure 2. (a) Infected tooth, (b) Opening crown using bur,
(c) Shaping root canal using file (d) Sealed tooth with fillings
3 Copyright © 2010 by ASME
treated. Neighboring teeth may be used as support. The bracket
pair provides three radiopaque reference points for the machine
registration, thus establishing a coordination system. Once the
machine is seated on the reference bracket, the machine base
wil have no motion relative to the patient’s teeth, regardless of 
the patient's head or jaw movements. The machine is designed
to be compact and rigid so that the patient can bite on it. Figure
4 shows the endodontic micro machine mounted on the lower
teeth. There is no need for the patient to actively keep his/her
mouth wide open, nor is there a need for the patient to keep
his/her head absolutely still. There are no sharp corners to hurt
the patient, and a protective case will further enhance the safety.
Designed for multi-purpose use, this machine can hold
various endodontic tools and auxiliary devices. With a quick
tool change approach, utilizing a cartridge design, different
tools can be pre-mounted on a small modular unit, which can be
inserted into a steel ribbon holding or tool mounting plate on
the Z axis.
Z AXIS ACTUATOR DESIGN FOR CONTROLLING THE
TOOL MOTION
The Z axis is the tool moving direction which leads the
treatment tool going upwards and downwards to get into the
root canal. Based on the dentin and crown materials, a
minimum 500 g push force is needed in order to invade the
dentin and crown. Since the electric motor with the micro size
needed to fit into the human mouth could not provide such
power, a hydraulic system is designed to actuate the tool motion
in Z axis. The design of Z axis actuator is shown in Figure 5. It
consists of cylinder housing, front cover, back cover, two half
circle tracks, piston, steel ribbon and steel ribbon holder (tool
quick change assembly mounting plate). The steel ribbon is
used to drive the motion of the tool with one end connect to
cylinder piston and other end connected to tool assembly
mounting plate. The ribbon size and thickness was calculated to
meet the strength requirement from the hydraulic power to the
root canal. The motion of the steel ribbon including the position
and speed were controlled by the hydraulic cylinder/piston
displacement.
Figure 4. Endodontic Micro Machine Mounted on a Lower Teeth
Back cover
Housing
Steel ribbon
Steel ribbon holder
/Tool assembly
mounting plate
Half circle track
Front cover
Piston
Figure 5. Z Axis Actuator and Steel Ribbon Drive System
Figure 6. Z Axis Actuator –Side view and Back View with Oil
Flow Illustration
Oil inlet and outlet
Housing
Oil passage
Back cover
Piston
Steel ribbon
Figure 3. Multi-purpose Micro-machine for Automatic
Endodontic Treatment
5 Copyright © 2010 by ASME
machine is the center piece of the Advanced Endodontic
Technology Development project. With on-line monitoring and
intelligent control, the micro machine or robot will perform the
automated drilling, cleaning, and filling of the root canal.
This paper describes the design of Z axis actuator and tool
quick change assembly in the micro machine for root canal
treatment. Z axis actuator provides the power for tool motion in
Z axis or root canal direction. Tool quick change assembly
holds the treatment tool and can be changed quickly based on
the treatment need. The Z axis actuator along with X axis and Y
axis actuators and their power delivery system completes the
control of the tool motion for the treatment. The design of X
axis and Y axis actuator will be discussed in a separated paper.
There are many different tools used during the root canal
treatment. They are held by the tool change assembly with 4
jaw design. Quick change attachment makes tool change
possible and convenient during the treatment process. The
pressure tab and holding bracket design reduces the tool change
time therefore increases the overall treatment efficiency.
Next step will be manufacture Z axis actuator and tool change
assembly with quick change attachment and tested for functions,
positioning accuracy, seal, and speed control. Further
modification of design maybe needed after the testing.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
This paper is a result of the NSC96-2221-E-009-147-MY2
project on “intelligent micro robot development for minimum
invasive endodontic treatment ”sponsored by National Science
Council, Taiwan, Republic of China.
REFERENCES
[1] American Dental Association (1998): Standards for
Advanced Specialty Education Programs in Endodontics.
[2] Bergenholtz G, Lekholm U, Milthon R, and Engström B
(1979): Influence of apical over-instrumentation and overfilling
on re-treated root canals. J Endodon 5: 310-314.
[3] Branden M (1976): Biophysics of the tooth. In Kawamura Y,
editor: Frontiers of OralPhysiology, S. Karger, Basle, Vol.2 pp
1-37
[4] Burns RC and Herbranson EJ (1997): Tooth morphology
and cavity preparation. In Cohen S, Burns RC, editors:
Pathways of the Pulp, ed 7, St Louis, Missouri, Mosby, pp
150-202.
[5] Buckley M and Spangberg LSW (1995): The prevalence
and technical quality of endodontic treatment in an American
subpopulation. Oral Surg Oral Med Oral Pathol Oral Radiol
Endo 79:92-100.
[6] Hong, Shane and Dong, Janet (2002): “3D Root Canal 
Modeling for Advanced Endodontic Treatment”,  Proceeding 
of SPIE 7th Annual International Symposium on Nondestructive
Evaluation for Health Monitoring and Diagnostics, San Diego,
CA, March 17-21, 2002, Paper No. 4702-37. p 321-330
[7] Dong , Janet (2003): “Rule Based Planning for Automated
Endodontic Treatment- From Dental Radiography, 3-D
Computer Modeling, to Tool Selection and Path Control,”
Ph.D. Thesis, Columbia University, May. 2003.
[8] Po-yu Chou(2007): “Development of Z Actuator & Quick
Change Tool Assembly for an Endodontic Micro Robot,”
Master Thesis, National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan, June
2007
Figure 11. Endodontic Micro Robot Mounted on the Teeth
2. 哥倫比亞大學 Prof. Hasselgren 向聯邦政府申請研究經費的
補助未能成功，現在只由臨床實習診所的收入負擔部分開銷。
3. University of Cincinnati 的 Prof. Dong 有從州政府及學
校取得小額經費，仍須努力。
4. 為了繼續計畫的進行，從國外的牙醫器材製造商取得適當的資
源還是有需要，因此三方聯名的信函希望能帶來希望。
出國人員 洪錫源
國立交通大學機械系 教授
在哥倫比亞大學附設醫院牙醫實習診所進行討論
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心
得報告
日期： 99 年 10 月 31 日
一、參加會議經過
本人於 2010.2.2.離台於 2月 4日抵美國辛辛那提大學先與國際
計畫合作人 Janet Dong 教授討論計畫進行現況，2月 7日抵達休
士頓參加 ASME 奈米工程在生醫應用會議三天，2月 10 日在返台
計畫編
號
NSC96 － 2221 － E － 009 － 147 －
MY2
計畫名
稱
先進牙髓病根管治療專用精密機器人之發展
出國人
員姓名
洪錫源
服務機
構及職
稱
國立交通大學機械系 教授
會議時
間
99 年 2月 7
日至
99 年 2月 10
日
會議地
點
Houston, Texas, USA
會議名
稱
ASME2010 奈米工程在醫學及生物應用第一次全球國際會議
與哥大及辛辛那提大學合作團隊討論國合計畫技術進展
ASME 2010 First Global Congress on NanoEngineering for Medicine
and Biology
發表論
文題目
(英文) Design of Z Axis Acutator & Quick Tool
ChangeAssembly for an Endodontic Micro Robot
Medicine and Biology
六、其他
分別拜訪本計劃的國際合作夥伴，紐約市的哥倫比亞大學與牙醫學院
系主任的哈索格蘭教授，與辛辛那提大學的董家驤教授向他簡報目前
計畫最新進展，展示我們所做的機器人零件組合。兩人亦將來台回訪。
2. 哥倫比亞大學 Prof. Hasselgren 向聯邦政府申請研究經費的
補助未能成功，現在只由臨床實習診所的收入負擔部分開銷。
3. University of Cincinnati 的 Prof. Dong 有從州政府及學
校取得小額經費，仍須努力。
4. 為了繼續計畫的進行，從國外的牙醫器材製造商取得適當的資
源還是有需要，因此三方聯名的信函希望能帶來希望。
出國人員 洪錫源
國立交通大學機械系 教授
在哥倫比亞大學附設醫院牙醫實習診所進行討論
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/11/06
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 先進牙髓病根管治療專用精密機器人之發展
計畫主持人: 洪錫源
計畫編號: 96-2221-E-009-147-MY2 學門領域: 產業機械
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
1.本計畫有國際合作共同主持人 Prof. Gunnar Hesselgren, Columbia 
University 及 Prof.  Janet Dong, University of Cincinnati。 
 
2.不管在國內或在國外學術討論會中發表論文,此計畫總得到與會學者的熱烈
討論,本計畫所代表的技術創新至為顯著。若能成功發展，將是工程科學對醫療
技術的一大貢獻。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
