流體化床式催化裂解觸媒轉化廢高分子混合物 
成為化學品和燃料之研究 
計畫類別：■ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 95－2211－E－244－013－ 
執行期間：95 年 08 月 01 日 至 96 年 07 月 31 日 
計畫主持人：   林岳輝  副教授  高苑科技大學高分子環保材料研究所 
共同主持人：   楊木火  教授    高苑科技大學高分子環保材料研究所 
計畫參與人員： 潘國平、林永昌  高材所碩士班研究生 
 
一、 中文摘要: 
由昂貴石化原料裂解衍生之高分子化合物
易形成重大的環境污染，但其內含之大量碳氫
化合物又可視為便宜的能量資源。化學回收方
式，將廢棄高分子聚合物分解成為燃油或化學
產品，以降低塑膠處理整體費用並有效解決環
境污染問題。本研究以實驗室級流體化床反應
器進行高分子廢混合塑膠聚合物之催化解聚反
應，藉由反應系統及操作條件來探討產品得
率、動力參數及產物篩選與分佈，成果顯示以
使用後無價值之 FCC 廢觸媒(spent)並結合流
體化反應系統進行高分子廢塑膠聚合物之催化
回收解聚反應，可將這些廢高分子聚合物化回
收轉換成為有價值之成燃油或化學品，本研究
除對石化資源回收再利用外，同時並可提供廢
棄塑膠與廢 FCC 觸媒造成環境污染問題之有效
解決方式。本研究之部份成果已於相關領域之
SCI 期刊由計畫主持人與共同主持人完成二篇
文章發表。本研究之部份成果已於相關領域之
SCI 期刊由計畫主持人與共同主持人完成二篇
文章發表。(關鍵字: 流體化床；廢高分子化合
物；觸媒；催化裂解；燃料) 
1. *Lin, Y.-H. and Yang, M.-H. Catalytic Pyrolysis of 
polyolefin waste into valuable hydrocarbons over 
reused catalyst from refinery FCC units. Appl. Catal. 
A:Gen., 2007, 328(2), 132-139. (SCI, IF= 
2.630 ;JCR-2006)   
2. *Lin, Y.-H. and Yang, M.-H. Chemical catalysed 
recycling of waste polymers: Catalytic conversion of 
polypropylene into fuels and chemicals over spend 
FCC catalyst in a fluidised-bed reactor. Polymer. 
Degrad. Stab., 2007, 92(5), 813-821. (SCI, IF= 2.174; 
JCR-2006)  
二、 英文摘要:  
Polymer waste can cause serious pollution but also 
could be regarded as a cheap and abundant source of 
chemicals and energy. Therefore, chemical recycling, 
i.e., conversion waste polymers into fuels or other 
valuable chemicals, has been recognized as an ideal 
approach and could significantly reduce the net cost of 
disposal. Waste polymers were pyrolyzed over fluidizing 
catalytic cracking (FCC) commercial catalysts using an 
in-house designed laboratory fluidized-bed reactor 
operating isothermally at ambient pressure. The effects 
of reaction conditions on product distribution, selectivity 
and kinetic behaviors were examined. From an 
economic point of view and taking into account the 
reaction conditions needed, a process could be the 
most favorable solution if the catalyst cost is practically 
little for the catalytic conversion of polymer waste. In 
this project, a catalyst system (both fresh and post-use 
FCC commercial catalysts) with polymer wastes and 
reaction conditions that has been used to enhance a 
polyethylene (HDPE), polypropylene (PP), polystyrene 
(PS) and polyvinyl chloride (PVC), and samples of 
waste plastics were selected for catalytic cracking. A 
detailed description of the experimental system is given 
elsewhere [5]. Both pure plastics and waste plastics 
were pyrolyzed over acidic zeolites (HZSM-5, HMOR 
and HUSY), non-zeolitic (SiO2-Al2O3) catalysts and 
silicalite (Si/Al >1000, siliceous analogue of ZSM-5 
zeolite). Both mixed PE/PP and PP were pyrolysed over 
various catalysts. High purity nitrogen was used as the 
fluidising gas and the flow was controlled by a needle 
valve and preheated in the bottom section of the reactor 
tube. Flowmeters were used to measure the full range 
of gas velocities from the incipient to fast fluidisation. 
Before catalytic pyrolysis experiments were started, 
several fluidisation runs were performed at ambient 
temperature and pressure to select: (i) suitable particle 
sizes and (ii) optimise the fluidising gas flow rates to be 
used in the reaction. The particle size of both catalyst 
(75-180 μm) and polymer (75-250 μm) were chosen to 
be large enough to avoid entrainment but not too large 
as to be inadequately fluidised. Gaseous products were 
analysed using a gas chromatograph equipped with a 
thermal conductivity detector (TCD) and a flame 
ionisation detector (FID).  The products are divided into 
4 groups; C1-C4 light gases, C5-C9 gasoline, liquid and 
residue yields. The amount and nature of the residues 
was determined by TGA. 
 
3.  Results and discussion 
Table 1 summarize the products of HDPE and PP 
degradation over various catalysts and silicalite. The 
yield of volatile hydrocarbons for various catalysts 
(ZSM-5 > USY ≈ MOR > SAHA) was much higher than 
for silicalite where the highest yield (nearly 95 wt%) was 
obtained for HZSM-5 compared to silicalite (5 wt%). The 
bulk of the products observed with zeolites were in the 
gas phase (>85 wt%) with less than 7 wt% liquid 
collected. The highest level of BTX were observed with 
ZSM-5, whilst the highest coke yields were observed 
with the two 12R zeolites, MOR and USY. SAHA 
showed the lowest conversion, USY yielded a 
saturate-rich product with a wide carbon number 
distribution and substantial coke levels. The differences 
in the product distributions between the zeolites can be 
seen with USY producing a wider molecular weight 
range than ZSM-5 and MOR. Some similarities were 
observed between ZSM-5 and MOR with C1-C4 and 
C5-C9 yields for HDPE and PP degradation, which were 
approximately 60 wt% and 30 wt% respectively. 
However, HUSY gave the different C1-C4 and C5-C9 
yields, which was approximately 30 wt% and 55 wt%.  
The volatile products of PS degradation over 
various catalysts are listed in Table 2. SAHA produced 
more aromatic streams with large amounts of styrene. 
Product distributions with HZSM-5 contained more 
monomer materials (styrene) with over 20 wt% aromatic 
dimers and trimers. Comparing of the products of PS 
and PVC degradation over zeolites (HZSM-5, HUSY 
and HMOR), both HZSM-5 and HMOR gave higher 
yields of gases products, while HUSY yielded the very 
high amount of residue. The results on the feed of PS 
show that the larger pore structure SAHA result in 
aromatic selectivity, while small channels present in 
zeolites give resistant to aromatics. As can be seen in 
Table 2, the amount of residue, on the feed of PS and 
PVC, was more exaggerated in the case of HUSY with 
its larger-pore openings and internal supercages. 
HZSM-5 is resistant to coking when coke builds up on 
outersurface and the product stream remains 
essentially unchanged, whereas the weakness and 
lower density of the acid sites in SAHA along with the 
increased tolerance to ″ coke ″ in the larger mesopore 
systems provide the most likely reasons for the lack of 
derived from thermogravimetric analysis, such as 
apparent activation energies, can be used for internal 
comparisons of catalysts. As can be seen in Table 3, the 
average activation energy for the thermal degradation of 
PP was in agreement with previous literature values, 
while silicalite catalysts gave only a slight reduction in 
the activation energy (143.4 kJ mol-1) compared with 
thermal experiments (147.5 kJ mol-1). The value of 
activation energy for PP/silicate decomposition at 
different fraction residual weights showed relatively 
comparable deviation among each other would appear 
to be associated with a rate-determining step involving 
chemical reaction, presumably at no catalytically active 
sites on the external surface. Much lower apparent 
activation energy values (87.1 kJ mol-1) were observed 
for FCC-s1 catalysts compared to silicalite catalysts. 
This indicates that the presence of spent FCC catalyst 
may allow the primary converted polymer to diffuse to 
the majority of the active sites, and consequently lead to 
the relatively low apparent activation energy. Coked 
catalyst was regenerated and cooled, before a further 
amount of polymer (equal in weight to the catalyst) was 
added. Fig. 4 shows the degradation weight loss curves 
for fresh catalyst (F1) and the catalyst that had been 
used and regenerated between one and four times (R1 
to R4). The greatest loss in activity was during the first 
regeneration, with smaller losses during subsequent 
regeneration. It is indicates that the catalyst can regain 
most its initial activity on regeneration, and could be 
regenerated several times.  
 
4.  Conclusion 
Waste polymers were pyrolyzed over catalysts 
using a specially developed fluidized bed. The catalytic 
degradation of plastics performed in fluidized bed 
reactor was thus found to be a useful method for the 
production of potentially valuable hydrocarbons. The 
systematic experiments carried out with several 
catalysts show that under appropriate reaction 
conditions, catalysts may be selected to reduce the 
required reaction temperature, improve the yield of 
volatile products, and provide selectivity in the product 
distributions. This work outlines some recent results 
relevant to polymer recycling using cracking catalysts 
and also attempts to provide a framework for 
understanding the variety of influences on product 
distribution. TGA provides a powerful tool for the rapid 
investigation of catalysed polymer degradation kinetics, 
the rate of catalyst deactivation and catalyst 
regenerability. The silicalite show a slight catalytic effect 
for polymer degradation and the average value of 
activation energy is only comparable to that for thermal 
reaction. It has been found that PP in the presence of a 
spent FCC catalyst (FCC-s1) is degraded with the 
apparent activation energy of 84.3-87.1 kJ mol-1 and 
this can have the ability to convert polymer waste into 
volatile products with the potential to provide a cheaper 
process in industrial application. 
 
References 
1. Lin, Y.-H., Sharratt, P.N., Garforth, A. and Dwyer, J., 
Energy Fuels, 12, 767-774 (1998). 
2. Lin, Y.-H. and Yen, H.-Y. Polymer Degradation and  
Stability, 89(1), 101-108 (2005). 
3. Lin, Y.-H., Hwu, W.H., Ger, M.D., Yeh, T.F. and 
Dwyer, J., J. Molecular Catalysis A: chemical., 171, 
143-151 (2001). 
4. Lin, Y.-H. and Yang, M.-H. J. Molecular Catalysis. A: 
chemical., 231, 113-122 (2005). 
5. Lin, Y.-H. and Yang, M.-H. Applied catalysis B: 
Environmental., 69(3), 145-153 (2006). 
 
Acknowledgements:  
The authors would like to thank the National Science 
Council (NSC) of the Republic of China (ROC) for 
financial support (NSC 95-2211-E-244-013-). 
 
