I 
 
摘要 
 本計畫為「以生物資訊最佳化方法發展電腦輔助疫苗設計系統」之三年期研
究計畫，主要目的是發展一套輔助免疫學家設計疫苗之電腦系統。本計畫之核心
為發展數個能適用於探勘各種生物免疫現象之重要特徵因子的高性能大量參數
最佳化之生物資訊演算法，並結合生物免疫知識庫發展成一整合型重要蛋白質功
能分析和註記的應用系統。 
在三年的執行期間，每年度都有階段性的成果，並互相相輔相成，而在計畫
最後完成一套電腦輔助疫苗設計系統。各年度的成果簡述如下： 
第一年：完成高效能重要特徵因子探勘演算法，是疫苗設計系統之演算法核心，
並研究細胞毒性T細胞及MHC class I, II產生免疫性的抗原處理及表現路徑
之相關致免疫性之重要特徵。 
第二年：使用所開發之重要特徵因子探勘演算法探索輔助性T細胞免疫反應之重
要特徵，完成輔助性T細胞致免疫性路徑研究及相關預測演算法。 
第三年：發展一套富含免疫系統的特徵資料庫，並整合前兩年開發之演算法與重
要特徵成果，完成電腦輔助疫苗設計系統。 
 目前已完成電腦輔助疫苗設計系統，而在三年的研究期間也陸續有相關論文
發表，並將核心的重要特徵因素探勘的智慧型基因演算法應用到其他蛋白質功能
預測領域，也都有良好的研究成果。此三年計畫中研究進度順利，已達預期目標，
並有多篇期刊論文及研討會論文發表，成果豐碩。 
 
 
關鍵詞：資料探勘、疫苗設計、演化式計算、基因演算法、參數最佳化、蛋白質
功能預測、物化特性、免疫反應、分類器、特徵選取、因素分析 
 
III 
 
Contents 
 
摘要 
Abstract 
Contents ..........................................................III 
1. Introduction......................................................1 
2. Objectives .......................................................2 
3. Literature Review .................................................3 
3.1.  Introduction of Immune .............................................................................3 
3.1.1.  Immunogenicity of MHC class I binding peptides and the pathway.3 
3.1.2.  Immunogenicity of MHC class II binding peptides and the pathway4 
3.2.  Introduction of Bioinformatics Tools.........................................................6 
3.2.1.  Biological features .............................................................................6 
3.2.2.  Feature selection methods..................................................................6 
3.2.3.  Classifiers...........................................................................................7 
4. Methods........................................................10 
4.1.  Objectives of three-year project...............................................................10 
4.2.  First year ..................................................................................................11 
4.2.1.  Establishment of core algorithm ......................................................11 
4.2.2.  Studying the immunogenicity of MHC class I ................................14 
4.2.3.  Prediction system of cytotoxic T lymphocyte..................................15 
4.3.  Second year ..............................................................................................17 
4.3.1.  Developing the useable classifiers of immune reactions .................17 
4.3.2.  Utilizing the varied biological features............................................18 
4.3.3.  Study of HTL immune pathway and epitopes..................................18 
4.4.  Third year.................................................................................................19 
4.4.1.  Completing the computer-aided vaccine design system ..................19 
4.4.2.  Establishing a database of immune features ....................................19 
5. Results and Discussions ...........................................20 
5.1.  Structure of Computer-aided Vaccine Design System .............................20 
5.2.  Determining the location of peptides .......................................................22 
5.2.1.  Proposed prediction methods ...........................................................22 
5.2.2.  ProLoc-GO – predicting protein subcellular localization ................24 
5.2.3.  S-protein – determining the transport ability of proteins.................34 
5.3.  Detecting the functions of peptide – Virulent-GO ...................................40 
5.4.  Prediction of T-cell immune response......................................................45 
5.4.1.  Related works...................................................................................45 
1 
 
1. Introduction 
Development of vaccine designs is a useful method for curing cancer or other 
diseases. However, decision of vaccine binding sites to their target cells costs much 
time and money. The biological factors influence the physiological phenomenon of 
human body, including the binding site of transcription factor, location of proteins, 
protein structures, protein functions and evolution of protein. Many of biological 
factors were used, such as epitope, protein folding and interaction of proteins. 
Therefore, identification of informative factors is an important issue. 
 
Both modeling of antigen processing pathway and prediction of peptide 
immunogenicity are necessary to develop a computer-aided system of peptide-based 
vaccine design that is one goal of immunoinformatics. Numerous studies have dealt 
with modeling the immunogenic pathway but not the intractable problem of 
predicting immunogenicity due to complex effects of many intrinsic and extrinsic 
factors. Moderate affinity of the MHC-peptide complex is essential to induce immune 
responses, but the relationship between the affinity and peptide immunogenicity is too 
weak to use for predicting immunogenicity. 
 
The feature selection methods in identifying biological factors for predicting 
protein functions play an important role in the research field of bioinformatics. The 
prediction systems can find valuable biological features from previous research results 
effectively. Utilizing the existing systems, the mechanism of immune systems will be 
analyzed. How to develop efficient methods for mining effective and interpretable 
factors from a large number of candidate factors are important in designing 
computer-aid vaccine system. The core problem forms a large-scale parameter 
optimization problem. 
 
The projects aims 1) to develop various high-performance optimization algorithms 
for solving large-scale parameter optimization problems of bioinformatics to mine 
informative physicochemical properties of proteins from known experimental data; 2) 
to integrate immune knowledge bases with the developed optimization methodologies 
to develop application systems of analyzing and annotating informative functions of 
proteins; 3) to develop a computer-aided vaccine design system to help 
immunologists for discovering the immune informative factors, and 4) to apply the 
developed high-performance optimization algorithm to related protein function 
prediction problems. 
3 
 
3. Literature Review 
3.1. Introduction of Immune 
3.1.1. Immunogenicity of MHC class I binding peptides and the 
pathway 
The most important work of vaccine design is to identify cytotoxic T lymphocyte 
(CTL) epitopes and investigate their corresponding immunogenicity. The CTL cells 
play a critical role in protective immunity by recognizing and eliminating self-altered 
cells, which recognize short peptides derived from intracellular degradation of foreign 
proteins in combination with major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I 
molecules [3]. The immunogenicity of MHC class I binding peptides is their ability to 
induce CTL responses. Direct approach to predicting the CTL epitopes has been 
studied initially but its accuracy is fairly low [4]. Instead, indirect approach to 
predicting the MHC binding peptides is useful because peptides must be processed 
prior to inducing cellular immune responses. The recent studies of bioinformatics 
utilized the information about antigen processing pathway to predict the CTL epitopes. 
The pathway contains three steps described below: 
 
In the first step: the peptides are cleaved by proteasomal cleavage. Several studies 
elucidating the specificity of proteasome have been presented. To predict proteasomal 
cleavage sites, NetChop used a neural network method [5] and Pcleavage is based on 
a support vector machine (SVM) learning model [6]. 
 
In the second step: peptide fragments are transported into endoplasmic reticulum 
by TAP, which is the transporter associated with antigen processing. Some studies of 
investigating the TAP transport efficiency were presented, such as the affinity 
prediction of TAP-binding peptides using the cascade SVM [7] and the prediction of 
TAP transport efficiency of epitope precursors using a simple scoring matrix [8] 
 
In the final step: the peptide fragments that bound to MHC class I molecules are 
subsequently translocated to the cell surface, where these complexes may active CTL. 
Some methods have been developed to predict MHC class I binding affinity, such as 
the SVM-based SVMHC [9] and Gibbs sampling method [10]. 
 
Moreover, the hybrid approaches integrated the above mentioned methods like the 
prediction of proteasomal cleavage, TAP transport efficiency and MHC binding to 
advance the prediction performance [11, 12]. 
5 
 
 Figure 3.1.2 shows the difference of MHC class I and MHC class II, that the 
binding groove of MHC class II molecules is open at both ends while the 
corresponding groove on class I molecules is closed at each end. Because the 
difference of binding groove, peptide fragments of MHC class II have more variable 
length, which about 9 to 25 residues [15]. As the characteristic of antigen-binding 
groove, classifiers which have ability to deal with the variable length peptides, such as 
hidden Markov model (HMM) have better performance [10, 16, 17]. Figure 3.1.3 
presents the response of helper T cell and MHC class II immune pathway. 
 
 
Figure 3.1.3 The MHC class II immune pathway and response of helper T cell [13]. 
 
7 
 
causes the start atoms to become unstuck from their initial positions and wander 
randomly through states of higher energy; the slow cooling gives them more chances 
of finding configurations with lower internal energy than the initial one. When the 
heat does not have enough energy to move the atoms, the best solution of cooling 
process is the final solution. 
 
Simulated annealing algorithm has the ability to search the worse solution area 
and find out the global optimum solution, without the area optimum solutions. 
However, the start atom is highly related the final solution; otherwise, the heat and 
cooling also influence the solution. As a result, how to determine the start atoms, the 
heat temperature, and cooling rate is important. 
 
4) Genetic Algorithm 
 The concept of genetic algorithm is mentioned by J. Holland that mimics the 
process of natural evolution. In a genetic algorithm, the chromosomes encode 
candidate solutions to an optimization problem. The chromosomes can exchange the 
information and evolves toward better solutions. The genetic algorithm is the 
evolutionary algorithm that can search the globally optimum solution. 
 
3.2.3. Classifiers 
1) Decision Tree 
Decision tree is a popular machine method which is used at artificial intelligence 
and pattern recognition. The method separates the feature space to the subspace by 
recursion and uses the tree structures present the result. Branches of the decision tree 
were decided by expected value so the result is fixed that cannot be analyzed in depth. 
 
2) Support vector machine 
Support vector machine (SVM) is a learning model dealing with binary 
classification problems. SVM constructs a binary classifier by finding a hyperplane to 
separate two classes with a maximal distance between margins of two classes 
consisting of support vectors. In order to make linear separation of samples easier, 
SVM uses one of various kernel functions to transform the samples into a 
high-dimensional search space. In this work, the commonly used radial basis function 
is applied to non-linearly transform the feature space, defined as follows: 
 
The kernel parameter γ determines how the samples are transformed into a 
9 
 
4) Neural Network 
The neural network simulated the structure and function of neuron. Neural 
network is composed by amount of neuron and each neuron has ability to do the 
simple computation. A simple structure of neural network is the multi-layered which 
including input layer, hidden layer, and output layer. Data enter the neural network by 
input layer, and the hidden layer obtains the data information. Finally, the output layer 
decides the result of data. 
 
 Weighted value is decided by training model and it is used to evaluate the ability 
of classification. Neural network is hard to analyze the result of each layer, and the 
output cannot be interpreted by conditional rules. Figure 3.2.2 shows a structure of 
fuzzy neural network. 
 
 
Figure 3.2.2 The illustration of fuzzy neural network. 
 
11 
 
 
4.2. First year 
4.2.1. Establishment of the core algorithm 
This study proposes a computational method to mine a feature set of informative 
physicochemical properties from MHC class I binding peptides to design a support 
vector machine (SVM) based system that integrate the inheritable bi-objective genetic 
algorithm for the prediction of peptide immunogenicity.  
 
Selection of important features is completed by high-performance optimization 
algorithms so this project employs the parameter optimization algorithms, including 
orthogonal experimental design and inheritable bi-objective genetic algorithm that 
described below: 
 
1) Orthogonal experimental design, OED 
Statistic design of experiments is a process of planning experiments. Orthogonal 
experimental design with orthogonal array and factor analysis is an efficient method 
to analyze the effect of several factors simultaneously [28, 29]. The factors are the 
parameters, which affect response variables, and a discriminative value of a factor is 
regarded as a level of the factor. A ‘complete factorial’ experiment would make 
measurements at each of all possible level combinations. However, the number of 
level combinations is often so large that this is impractical, and a subset of level 
combinations must be judiciously selected to be used, resulting in a ‘fractional 
factorial’ experiment. Orthogonal experimental design utilizes properties of fractional 
factorial experiments to efficiently determine the best combination of factor levels to 
use in design problems. 
 
Orthogonal array is a fractional factorial array, which assures a balanced 
comparison of levels of any factor. Orthogonal array can reduce the number of level 
combinations for factor analysis. Each row of an orthogonal array represents the 
levels of factors in each combination, and each column represents a specific factor 
that can be changed from each combination. The term ‘main effect’ of one factor 
designates the effect on response variables that one can trace to a design parameter, 
which does not bother the estimation of the main effect of another factor. After proper 
tabulation of experimental results, the summarized data are analyzed using factor 
analysis to determine the relative-level effects of factors. 
 
Factor analysis can evaluate the effects of individual factors on the evaluation 
13 
 
accuracy is a bi-objective 0/1 combinatorial optimization problem. An efficient 
inheritable bi-objective genetic algorithm [2] is utilized to solve this optimization 
problem. IBCGA consists of an intelligent genetic algorithm [1] with an inheritable 
mechanism. The intelligent genetic algorithm uses a divide-and-conquer strategy and 
an orthogonal array crossover to efficiently solve large-scale parameter optimization 
problems. In this study, the intelligent genetic algorithm can efficiently explore and 
exploit the search space of C(n, r). IBCGA can efficiently search the space of C(n, r±1) 
by inheriting a good solution in the space of C(n, r) [2]. Therefore, IBCGA can 
economically obtain a complete set of high-quality solutions in a single run where r is 
specified in an interesting range such as [5, 45]. 
 
The proposed chromosome encoding scheme of IBCGA consists of both binary 
genes for feature selection and parametric genes for tuning SVM parameters, where 
the gene and chromosome are commonly used terms of genetic algorithm (GA), 
named GA-gene and GA-chromosome for discrimination in this article. The 
GA-chromosome consists of n=531 binary GA-genes bi for selecting informative 
properties and two 4-bit GA-genes for tuning the parameters C and γ of SVM. If bi=0, 
the ith property is excluded from the SVM classifier; otherwise, the ith property is 
included. This encoding method maps the 16 values of γ and C into [2-7, 2-6 ,. . . , 28]. 
Figure 1 shows the encoding scheme of GA-chromosome and process of constructing 
feature vectors for fitness function evaluation using a concise example. 
 
The feature vector for training the SVM classifier is obtained from decoding a 
GA-chromosome using the following steps. Consider a given peptide sequence, e.g. 
lysosomal acid lipase (LAL). At first, the index vectors for all selected 
physicochemical properties (residue volume and molecular weight in this example) 
are constructed from AAindex for each amino acid. Feature vector of a peptide 
consists of the selected features whose values are obtained by averaging the values in 
their corresponding index vectors. Finally, all values of the feature vectors are 
normalized into [-1, 1] for applying SVM. 
 
Fitness function is the only guide for IBCGA to obtain desirable solutions. To 
avoid from the prediction bias for some immunogenic levels, the averaged accuracies 
(AA) of four immunogenic levels is adopted as the fitness function. The performance 
of selected properties associated with the parameter values of SVM is measured by 
10-CV. Therefore, the fitness value of a GA-chromosome is obtained by computing 
the mean accuracy of 10 runs. 
 
15 
 
 
Physicochemical properties of amino acids were extensively and successfully 
used in sequence-based prediction methods [18, 19, 21, 30]. Because of the weak 
correlation between peptide immunogenicity and peptide-MHC binding affinity, 
mining informative physicochemical properties is a potentially good approach to 
designing a classifier for predicting immunogenicity. This study aims to design an 
accurate predictor by efficiently selecting a small set of informative physicochemical 
properties considering the correlated effects 
 
There are 544 physicochemical properties of amino acids extracted from amino 
acid index database (AAindex), which is a collection of published amino acid indices 
representing different physicochemical and biological properties of amino acids [31]. 
Each physicochemical property consists of a set of 20 numerical values for amino 
acids. The property having the value ‘NA’ in a value set of amino acid index was 
discarded. Finally, 531 properties were used for the following mining method. 
 
Support vector machine (SVM) is a learning model dealing with binary 
classification problems. SVM constructs a binary classifier by finding a hyperplane to 
separate two classes with a maximal distance between margins of two classes 
consisting of support vectors. The radial basis function is applied to non-linearly 
transform the feature space in this study.  
 
For multi-class classification problems, ‘one-against-one’ strategy is applied to 
transform the multi-class problem into several binary classification problems. Given h 
classes, there are h(h-1)/2 classifiers constructed and each one trains the samples from 
two classes. A voting strategy is applied to give a final prediction for test samples. In 
this study, h=4 and the used SVM is obtained from LIBSVM package version 
2.91[27]. 
 
 
4.2.3. Prediction system of cytotoxic T lymphocyte 
Study of indirect approach to predicting the MHC binding peptides is useful 
because peptides must be processed prior to inducing cellular immune responses. The 
three reactions of MHC class I are studied: 
1) The peptides are cleaved by proteasomal cleavage. 
2) TAP transport efficiency of epitope precursors. 
3) MHC class I binding affinity. 
 
17 
 
 
4.3. Second year 
4.3.1.  Developing the useable classifiers of immune reactions 
We utilized the core algorithm to construct the variable classifiers which 
response to different part of the computer-aided vaccine design system. The main 
optimization algorithm in development is intelligent genetic algorithm. 
 
Intelligent Genetic Algorithm (IGA) combines the characteristic of genetic 
algorithm and orthogonal experimental design, so the algorithm has ability that can 
converge quickly and obtain the higher accuracy [1]. The differences of intelligent 
genetic algorithm and traditional genetic algorithm (GA) is that crossover of IGA is 
combined with orthogonal experimental design. In other words, we consider the 
crossover as an orthogonal experiment to replace the traditional random crossover.  
GA-chromosome will crossover according to the orthogonal array and the probability 
to get better chromosome descendant is promoted. The process shows below: 
 
Step 1: Coding of chromosomes gene make each segment is treated as a factor. 
Use the first N columns of an Ln(2n-1), where n = 2[log（N+1）]. 
Step 2: Let levels 1 and 2 of factor represent the jth gene segments of 
chromosomes coming from parents P1 and P2, respectively. 
Step 3: Compute the fitness value yt of the combination t, where t = 1, 2, …, n. 
Step 4: Compute the main effect Sjk, where j = 1, 2, …, N and k = 1, 2. 
Step 5: Determine the better one of two levels of each factor based on main effect. 
Step 6: The chromosome of first child is formed using the combination of the 
better gene segments from the derived corresponding parents. 
Step 7: The chromosome of second child is formed similarly as first child, except 
that the factor with the smallest MED adopts the other level. 
 
Except the SVM classifier, different classifiers are considered to be the estimate 
tools. For example, fuzzy k-nearest neighbor classifier is used to deal with the highly 
interactive data.  
 
Fuzzy k-nearest neighbor classifier active according to “Things of one kind come 
together”, means the same class will gather together. The difference of fuzzy k-nearest 
neighbor and traditional k-nearest neighbor is that the traditional k-nearest neighbor 
hires Euclidean distance as the distance function but the fuzzy k-nearest neighbor 
employs the fuzzy C-means clustering method. The fuzzy C-means clustering method 
19 
 
 
4.4. Third year 
4.4.1. Completing the computer-aided vaccine design system 
We establish an intelligent feature mining system at third year. This system uses 
the inheritable genetic algorithm and intelligent genetic algorithm as the system core 
and selects varied features, like gene ontology annotation, amino acid composition, 
and sequence motifs. 
 
The intelligent feature mining system is used to select the important features 
from the previous studies. This system can find out the suitable feature for different 
immune reactions. Utilizing the system, newly features can be discovered and 
integrated to our immune reaction feature database. 
 
Combination of various high-performance optimization algorithms to the 
computer-aided vaccine design system and make a proposal. When user input a 
unknown protein, the computer-aided system can determine the correct prediction tool 
by the protein sequence information. And the system provides the information of 
epitope and immunogenicity to help immunologist for vaccine design. We interpret 
the system at chapter 5. 
 
4.4.2. Establishing a database of immune features 
The one important aim is establish a immune feature database. Because the 
features selected in the project contain a lot of immune information that can be 
utilized for vaccine design. We collect the features and establish an informative 
feature database to provide the information to the immunologist. 
  
The project establishes an informative feature database of immune systems. The 
database contains the selected feature of this project and combines to other immune 
database. Immunologist can study immune reaction pathway and the mechanism 
deeply by this database. 
 
21 
 
that detects the peptides is intercellular or intracellular and the transport ability of 
peptides. According the result, the system can select the peptide that can induce the 
immune reaction. For example, when the peptides cannot be transported, the immune 
reaction will not be active. 
 
Stage 2: Predicting the function of peptides. After detect the location of peptide, 
the system will estimate the function of peptides. In this stage, vaccine design system 
pick up the functional peptides and accelerate the determination of antigen-binding 
site of vaccine. The selection of functional peptides also can reduce the number of 
possible peptides that make vaccine design more accurate. 
 
Stage 3: Predicting the residue binding site and selecting the biological feature of 
peptides. The final stage will predict the peptides can be ubiquitylated and classify 
ubiquitylation sites. Because the peptides must be cleaved by proteasomal cleavage to 
active the immune pathway, the classify ubiquitylation sites is very important. Next, 
the biological features of the input peptide will be extracted and figure out the peptide 
is utilized by which T cell base on those features. According to different T cell type, 
the system chooses the suitable prediction tools to predict the residue binding site 
accurately and immunogenicity. Finally, the computer-aided vaccine design system 
provide the possibility of immune reaction, peptide binding site on T cell, and further 
biological features to assist the vaccine design. 
 
23 
 
called essential GO terms for subcellular localization prediction, such as GO:0005634 
(Nucleus), GO:0005737 (Cytoplasm) and GO:0005856 (Cytoskeleton), shown in 
Table 5.2.1. These essential GO terms are regarded as domain knowledge to be 
included in the feature set of m informative GO terms for subcellular localization 
prediction. A prediction method ProLoc-GO based on GOmining was implemented 
using the feature set of informative GO terms. This method performed well in 
predicting protein subcellular localization from input sequences only. 
 
Table 5.2.1 Essential GO terms and their definitions 
 
  
5.2.1.2. S-protein 
Secreted proteins such as cytokines, chemokines and hormones are potential 
biomarkers for diagnosis or the evaluation of therapeutic efficiency [36, 37]. They are 
easy to be detected in body fluids such as serum and urine by noninvasive ways. 
Discovery of novel human secreted proteins provides possible targets for new drug 
development and diagnostic technique. With the advances of secretome and proteome 
researches [38, 39], the identification of novel secreted proteins has made further 
progress, but the experimentally confirmed secreted proteins are still limited.  
25 
 
respectively, which are significantly better than the SVM-based methods, which 
achieve < 35% test accuracies using amino acid composition (AAC) with acid pairs 
and AAC with dipedtide composition.  
 
For comparison, ProLoc-GO using known accession numbers of query proteins 
yields test accuracies of 90.6% and 85.7%, which is also better than Hum-PLoc 
(85.0%) and Euk-OET-PLoc (83.7%) using ensemble classifiers with hybridization of 
GO terms and amphiphilic pseudo amino acid composition for SCL12 and SCL16, 
respectively. 
 
5.2.2.2. Data sets and GO annotation 
Two existing data sets SCL12 [35] and SCL16 [34] obtained from 
UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot database [45] were used to evaluate the proposed method 
ProLoc-GO. The SCL12 and SCL16 have 2041 human proteins localized in 12 human 
subcellular compartments and 4150 eukaryotic proteins in 16 subcellular 
compartments, respectively. The two data sets were operated by a culling program [46] 
so that those sequences had < 25% sequence identity. The data set SCL12 was divided 
into two parts, SCL12L and SCL12T, with 919 and 1122 proteins, and the data set 
SCL16 also consists of two parts, SCL16L for training and SCL16T for independent 
testing. 
 
We applied the Gene Ontology Annotation (GOA) database [47], which includes 
GO annotations for nonredundant proteins from many species in the 
UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot database [45]. The GOA database was downloaded directly 
from [47] (UniProt 45.0 released in Jan. 2007). The accession numbers of proteins are 
required for querying the GOA database to obtain GO terms. BLAST [48, 49] was 
used to obtain a homology with a known accession number to the protein for 
retrieving the GO terms. The corresponding accession numbers of all protein 
sequences in SCL12 and SCL16 were obtained by using BLAST with h = 1 and e = 
10-9. 
 
The training data set included the SCL12L and SCL16L were described. For 
SCL12L, the size of the complete set of all GO terms that appeared was n = 1714 
from the 919 human proteins. The smallest, largest and mean numbers of GO terms 
annotated for individual proteins were 0, 35 and 8.3, respectively. The percentage of 
training proteins whose homologies were not annotated by any GO term (that is, the 
number of GO terms annotated is zero) was 1.31%. For SCL16L, n = 2870 GO terms 
were obtained from 2423 eukaryotic proteins. The smallest, largest and mean numbers 
27 
 
intelligent genetic algorithm with an inheritance mechanism (IGA) [1, 2]. IGA can 
efficiently search for the solution Sr+1 to C(n, r+1) by inheriting a good solution Sr to 
C(n, r). This study proposes an efficient algorithm based on IGA, called GOmining, to 
identify a small set of m informative GO terms including the essential GO terms as 
features to SVM. The GOmining algorithm incorporates LIBSVM [27] using series of 
binary classifiers. GOmining aims to maximize the training accuracy of prediction 
using 10-fold cross-validation (10-CV) when identifying the m informative GO terms. 
 
The SVM classifier based on the selected informative GO terms as features is 
called SVM-IGO. To evaluate a candidate set of r informative GO terms accompanied 
with the SVM parameters, the prediction accuracy of 10-CV serves as a fitness 
function of IGA. Figure 5-2 shows the results of SVM-IGO from r = 40 to 70. Table 
5.2.2 lists the m = 44 informative GO terms for SCL12L obtained from the highest 
accuracy of 89.8% (r = 44), where the SVM parameters (C, γ) = (23, 2-4). Table 6 lists 
the m = 60 informative GO terms for SCL16L, where the highest accuracy was 86.5%, 
and (C, γ) = (25, 2-3). 
 
Figure 5.2.1 Training accuracies of SVM-IGO and SVM-RBS performed by using SVM with a 
number r of selected informative GO terms 
 
The orthogonal experimental design with orthogonal array and factor analysis 
used in IGA is an efficient method for simultaneously examining the individual effect 
of several factors on the evaluative function [51, 52]. The factors are the parameters 
(GO terms) that manipulate the evaluation function, and a setting of a parameter is 
regarded as a level of the factor. In this study, the two levels of one factor are the 
inclusion and exclusion of the ith GO term in the feature selection using IGA. The 
factor analysis can quantify the effects of individual factors on the evaluation function, 
rank the most effective factors and determine the best level for each factor to optimize 
29 
 
 
5.2.2.5. Analysis of informative GO terms 
The GOmining method identifies a feature set of m effective GO terms, called 
informative GO terms, to design an accurate SVM-based prediction method. Table 
5.2.4 shows the distribution of the m informative GO terms in the GO graph. For 
SCL12L with m = 44, GOmining selected 12 essential GO terms and 32 instructive 
GO terms. The 32 instructive GO terms consist of 7 GO terms from the molecular 
function branch, 14 terms from the biological process branch, and 11 terms from the 
cellular component branch, denoted as 7(M), 14(B) and 11(C), respectively. 
Analytical results reveal that all the three branches contain instructive GO terms. 
 
Table 5.2.4 Distribution of the m informative GO terms. Most instructive GO terms (80%) are not 
offspring of the essential GO terms that the ratios are 26/32 and 36/45 for SCL12L and SCL16L, 
respectively. 
 
 
 
Due to the high correlation among GO terms in the GO graph, the feature 
selection of SVM should consider simultaneously a set of informative GO terms, 
rather than individual GO terms. Since the essential GO terms are always included, 
GOmining benefits from a confined search space of candidate instructive GO terms. 
31 
 
 
Figure 5.2.2 Some of the selected GO terms which are offspring of essential GO terms. For SCL12L, 
there are three terms shown: GO:0031227, GO:0030662 and GO:0017119. For SCL16L, five GO terms 
are shown: GO:0009514, GO:0005681, GO:0005789, GO:0005759 and GO:0005829 
 
Figure 5.2.3 Some of the selected GO terms which are between two essential GO terms. For SCL12L, 
the two instructive GO terms GO:0005815 and GO:0005813 are between the essential GO terms 
GO:0005856 and GO:0005814. For SCL16L, GO:0005813 and GO:0000922 are offspring of the 
essential GO term GO:0005856, belonging to the class (a). GO:0005814 is not an essential GO term for 
SCL16L. 
 
33 
 
Computational prediction methods from primary protein sequences are fairly 
economical in terms of identifying large-scale eukaryotic proteins with unknown 
functions. The GO annotation, which describes the function of genes and gene 
products across species, has been used to improve the prediction of protein subcellular 
localization. The accession numbers of proteins are necessary to query the GOA 
database to obtain GO terms. Since novel proteins have no known accession numbers, 
BLAST was used to obtain homologies with known accession numbers to the proteins 
for the retrieval of GO terms. 
 
GO annotation has grown in size and popularity. However, few studies have 
explored informative GO terms from the over 20,000 annotations available at present 
for sequence-based prediction problems. This study proposes a genetic algorithm 
based method, GOmining, which combines SVM to simultaneously identify a small 
number m out of the n GO terms as features to SVM, where m <<n. The m GO terms 
include the essential GO terms annotating subcellular compartments such as 
GO:0005634 (Nucleus), GO:0005737 (Cytoplasm) and GO:0005856 (Cytoskeleton). 
ProLoc-GO was evaluated using SVM with the GO-based features from two kinds of 
input data, sequence and known accession numbers of proteins. 
 
ProLoc-GO was significantly superior to the other methods. And analysis of m 
informative GO terms in the GO graph reveals that GOmining can consider internal 
relevant-feature correlation, rather than individual features, by using an efficient 
global optimization method. GOmining can serve as an efficient tool for mining 
informative GO terms for various sequence-based predictions of proteins, especially 
when the GO database grows fast. The prediction system using ProLoc-GO with 
protein sequence as input data for protein subcellular localization has been 
implemented. 
 
35 
 
 
Table 5.2.5 Results of IBCGA feature selection of 30 runs 
 
 
The total score of each set was divided by the number of features of each set to 
calculate the average score of each set of features. The top 10 feature sets are listed in 
Table 5.2.6. The highest average score Sr was 6.7. The feature set with the highest 
score contains 20 features which are listed in Table 5.2.7. Furthermore, the feature set 
with the highest average score was used for the independent test. The overall accuracy 
was 81.94%. The accuracies for the nonsecreted and secreted proteins were 90.07% 
and 68.60% respectively and the MCC is 0.61. 
 
Table 5.2.6 Results of feature sets scoring 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37 
 
 
Figure 5.2.6 The significance of each feature selected in run 17 is analyzed by MED analysis 
 
The extracted features from 30 independent IBCGA runs are with strong 
robustness. Feature 420 and 202 were selected 19 and 17 times respectively. The 
discrimination ability of only one feature is showed in figure 5.2.7. Obviously, it is 
difficult to separate the two classes of proteins according to one feature only. But, one 
small set of features (m = 13) selected by our IBCGA can achieved an accuracy of 
82%. 
 
 
Figure 5.2.7 The distribution of feature (a) 420 and (b) 202. The value is normalized to 1 and −1 
 
Some of the informative physicochemical properties extracted by our algorithm 
are found to be important in the process of protein secretion [55, 56]. By the analysis 
of MED, the feature 349 which describes the Information measure for C-terminal turn 
is the most important. In contrast to the role that N-terminal signal played in the 
classical secretory pathway, the C-terminal signal may play a more important role in 
the non-classical secretory pathway. The extracted properties are also relatively more 
interpretable for biologists. Some of these informative features need to be investigated 
more detailed 
 
39 
 
proteins. The robust and informative physicochemical properties were extracted from 
30 independent runs of IBCGA to predict the non-classical secreted proteins.
41 
 
terms set to classify virulent proteins turned out a better performance (Accuracy 
82.5% ) compared to several generic features that are amino acids composition 
(72.1%),dipeptide composition (71.1%), similarity search (52.1%) and PSSM profile 
(78.1%). 
 
The five-fold cross-validation scheme is also used to evaluating performance for 
Training Dataset-1 and Training Dataset-2 by combining with widely-used classifiers 
to demonstrate the efficiency of essential GO terms. Due to 288 non-virulent and 289 
virulent proteins have no essential GO terms annotated, they could be recognized as a 
same class and lead to a lot of false positives or false negatives. These results could be 
seen from Table 5.3.1. After excluding these proteins, the accurate rate just a little 
drop against results from training dataset which is annotated by instructive GO terms. 
These results are shown in Table 5.3.2. 
 
Table 5.3.1 The result of evaluating on only essential GO terms is included with five-fold 
cross-validation 
 
 
Table 5.3.2 Training results of instructive GO terms as feature performed on multiple classifiers with 
five-fold cross-validation 
 
 
5.3.3. Analyzing Instructive GO terms and Essential GO Terms 
In integrative views with instructive GO terms set and essential GO terms set, the 
training datasets that are constructed by non-virulent and virulent protein sequences in 
bacterial pathogens are well-annotated and informative by these two sets. 
Non-virulent proteins share more diversity of GO terms (1174) to virulent proteins 
(599) that is shown in Table 5.3.3.  
 
 
 
43 
 
prediction. Although keywords like “Colonization“, “Iron acquisition” and 
“PhoP/PhoQ two component system” assess to 0 proteins for no GO term own by 
them could be recognized as a essential GO term, a typical example that is catered to 
“Iron acquisition”“Siderophore receptor” is querying and access to few proteins. Also, 
“PhoP/PhoQ two component system” and “ABC transport system” are in the same 
situation. Besides, there are two keywords retrieved certain GO terms but were failure 
to intersecting with instructive GO terms. They are “Immune response inhibitor” and 
“Biofilm”. 
 
5.3.4. Virulent-GO 
The design of Virulent-GO is a two-stage approach to classifying virulent 
proteins in bacterial pathogens utilizing the single kind of GO term features. At the 
first stage, sequences in the given training dataset are used to obtain their homologies 
by using BLAST. The accession numbers of homologies were used to query the GOA 
database to obtain a set of instructive GO terms. All sequences in the training dataset 
are represented as a vector of instructive GO terms. Additionally, a set of essential GO 
terms is collected. The flowchart of generating feature vectors of instructive GO terms 
and essential GO terms is shown in figure 5.3.2. At the second stage, a good classifier 
for utilizing the instructive GO terms is determined by evaluating some widely-used 
classifiers. The high-performance classifier determined is further evaluated using an 
independent test dataset. 
45 
 
 
5.4. Prediction of T-cell immune response 
 The final stage is the core of computer-aided vaccine design system. System 
refers the selected biological features, such as physicochemical properties, GO terms, 
and sequence motifs, to determine the prediction model. The suitable prediction tools 
to predict the residue binding site accurately and immunogenicity. Finally, the 
computer-aided vaccine design system provide the possibility of immune reaction, 
peptide binding site on T cell, and further biological features to assist the vaccine 
design. 
 
5.4.1. Related works 
5.4.1.1. Highly Ubiquitylated Proteins as Antigen Sources 
Ubiquitin-proteasome system is an important mechanism for protein degradation 
that the ubiquitylated proteins will be degraded by proteasome. The ubiquitin acts as a 
specific tag for marking proteins for degradation. The proteasome is a major 
mechanism for cells to regulate the concentration of particular proteins and degrade 
misfolded proteins. The degradation process produces short peptides of about 7~8 
amino acids. The resulting short peptides can be further degraded into amino acids 
that can be used in protein synthesis [62, 63].  
 
The proteasome plays an important role in the function of the adaptive immune 
system. The peptide antigens presented on the surface of antigen-presenting cells are 
produced by proteasomal degradation of pathogen proteins and displayed by MHC 
class I molecules [64]. A previous study investigated the role of ubiquitin-dependent 
proteolytic pathway in MHC class I-restricted antigen presentation and concluded that 
ubiquitin-conjugation (also called ubiquitylation) plays an important role in the 
presentation of a cytosolic antigen with MHC [65]. Another study found that an 
amino-terminal modification of a viral protein will promote ubiquitin-dependent 
degradation and lead to the enhancement of presentation with MHC class I [66]. 
 
Some recent studies have similar results that ubiquitin-conjugation will enhance 
the efficacy of polynucleotide viral vaccines [67] and vaccines against tuberculosis 
[68]. Another study claimed that the low frequency of memory cytotoxic T 
lymphocyte and inefficient antiviral protection of DNA immunization with minigenes 
can be rectified by ubiquitylation [69]. Therefore, accurate prediction of 
ubiquitylation sites can provide better understandings of ubiquitylation mechanism. 
The selection of highly ubiquitylated peptides can improve the effectiveness of 
vaccines. In Chapter 3.2, three kinds of features and three classifiers were assessed for 
47 
 
prediction performance [76, 77]. 
 
The problem of predicting immunogenicity of MHC class I binding peptides is 
crucial to further identify highly immunogenic peptides. The selection of highly 
immunogenic peptides can save many experimental efforts and accelerate the 
developing progress. In Chapter 3.3, a prediction system POPI was developed to 
predict immunogenicity of MHC class I binding peptides. POPI performs better than 
alignment-based and affinity-based methods.  
 
In Chapter 3.3.8, an improved prediction system POPISK was constructed to 
predict T-cell responses induced by HLA-A2-restricted peptides. POPISK using string 
kernels is useful for predict peptide immunogenicity and immunogenicity changes 
made by single residue modifications that is especially useful for optimizing 
peptide-based vaccines. 
 
5.4.1.3. Immunogenic Pathway of MHC class II 
The immunogenic pathway of MHC class II includes four steps. First, antigens 
are engulfed by endocytosis forming endosome. Second, endosome fuses with 
lysosome and is cleaved by peptidase in lysosome. Third, the peptide fragments 
bound to MHC class II will be translocated to cell surface. Finally, immune responses 
(also called immunogenicity) will be triggered when helper T lymphocyte (HTL) 
recognize non-self antigens presented by antigen presenting cell (APC). The activated 
HTL will induce the resting HTLs to proliferate and differentiate into memory cells or 
effector cells and provide specific help to CTL, B lymphocytes and phagocytic cells 
[78, 79]. 
 
Previous studies for predicting immunogenic pathway of MHC class II focus on 
the prediction of MHC class II-restricted peptides (qualitative methods) and the 
binding affinity of peptide-MHC complex (quantitative methods). Many methods are 
proposed to predict MHC class II binding peptides. The evolutionary algorithms 
including ant colony algorithms [80], evolutionary algorithms combined with artificial 
neural networks [81] and multi-objective evolutionary algorithms [82] are developed 
for optimizing a matrix for predicting binding affinity. Other methods including the 
neural network based methods [81, 83, 84], Bayesian neural networks [85], fuzzy 
neural networks [86], the hidden Markov model [87], Gibbs samplers [10], support 
vector machines [88-90] and alignment-based method SMM-align that is a 
stabilization matrix alignment method for predicting MHC class II binding affinity 
[91]. 
 
49 
 
 
5.4.2. Prediction of ubiquitylation sites 
5.4.2.1. Introduction 
Ubiquitylation (also called ubiquitination) is an important mechanism of 
post-translational modification that ubiquitin will be linked to specific lysine residues 
of target proteins by forming isopeptide bonds. Three enzymes including activating 
enzyme (E1), conjugating enzyme (E2), and ubiquitin ligase (E3) are involved in the 
ubiquitylation process. Another enzyme E4 can help to stabilize and extend 
polyubiquitin chain [92, 93]. The first discovered function of ubiquitylation is to 
target proteins for subsequent degradation by the ATP-dependent 
ubiquitin-proteasome system. Subsequently, many regulatory functions of 
ubiquitylation were discovered including the regulation of DNA repair and 
transcription, control of signal transduction, and implication of endocytosis and 
sorting [92, 93]. 
 
Because of the important regulatory roles of ubiquitylation, numerous methods 
were developed to purify ubiquitylated proteins [94]. Also, the growing number of 
studies of large-scale identification of ubiquitylated proteins and analysis of 
ubiquitin-related proteome reflect the importance of identifying ubiquitylation 
proteins and sites [95-100]. The three steps affinity purification, proteolytic digestion, 
and analysis using mass spectrometry were applied in most of these studies [101]. 
These works cost a lot of experimental efforts. Therefore, developing a prediction 
system using informative features from protein sequences can not only save 
experimental efforts but also provide insights into the mechanism of ubiquitylation. 
 
51 
 
vector of size (20+1)w is used for representing a sample. 
Using informative features as well as an appropriate classifier is essential to 
design an accurate prediction system. Three machine learning classifiers including 
k-nearest neighbor, NaïveBayes and support vector machine (SVM) are evaluated for 
predicting ubiquitylation sites. Two extensively used classifiers including IBk for 
k-nearest neighbor classifier and NaïveBayes classifier that are included in the 
machine learning tool of WEKA [106] are applied to evaluate prediction 
performances of features. To optimize the performance of IBk classifier, five numbers 
of nearest neighbors k=1, 3, …, 9 used to classify samples are evaluated for selecting 
the best number of k. For NaïveBayes, in addition to normal distribution, a 
distribution obtained from kernel estimation is used to model numeric attributes. 
 
To find the best kind of feature for SVM-based prediction of ubiquitylation sites, 
the control parameters C and  of SVM and associated window size w{11, 13, …, 
29} for each kind of features should be tuned to obtain best performance for 
comparison. The grid search method is applied to tune parameters C and  that total 
16*16=256 grids are evaluated. The prediction accuracy of 10-CV is used to 
determine the best parameter values for the three kinds of features for SVM. 
 
 
 
Figure 5.4.3 Performance comparisons among amino acid identity, evolutionary information and 
physicochemical property with various classifiers. 
 
53 
 
4 Evolutionary information 13 1 2-7 66.33 72.00 60.67 0.33 0.71 
Table 5.4.1 Summary of used parameters and LOOCV performances of the methods using 
informative physicochemical properties (UbiPred), amino acid identity, evolutionary information, 
and all physicochemical properties. 
 
 
Figure 5.4.4 Performance comparisons between the SVM with informative physicochemical 
properties (SVM+IPCP) and other compared classifiers. 
 
Figure 5.4.1 shows the sequence logo of the 151 positive samples with w=21 
generated by the WebLogo tool [108]. The sequence logo with low information 
content reveals disadvantages of the SVM using the two position-based features, 
amino acid identity and evolutionary information, compared with the non-position 
based features, physicochemical properties using averaged measurement of amino 
acids in a sequence.  
 
We established ten datasets with window sizes 11, 13, …, 29 from UbiProt, a 
database of ubiquitylated proteins [107], to evaluate the three kinds of features for 
applying classifiers. The dataset of window size 21 is shown in Figure 5.4.2. 
According to the prediction accuracies using 10-fold cross-validation (10-CV), the 
physicochemical property is the best feature to SVM with best performance among all 
classifiers and all kinds of features shown in Figure 5.4.3.  
 
In order to provide insight into the underlying mechanism of ubiquitylation and 
improve the prediction accuracy, IPMA is applied to mine physicochemical properties 
and tune SVM parameters while maximizing the 10-CV accuracy, a set of 31 
informative physicochemical properties is obtained. A prediction system UbiPred for 
identifying ubiquitylation sites is implemented by utilizing the 31 informative 
physicochemical properties. UbiPred performs well with a prediction accuracy of 
55 
 
C5.0-selected properties. Considering the mean accuracies of SVM with informative 
physicochemical properties in Figure 5.4.4, the best window size is w=21.  
 
Figure 5.4.5 shows the best 10-CV accuracies of using IPMA with w=21 for 
various numbers of features from 30 independent runs. The accuracy of w=21 can be 
improved from 69.87% to 85.43% by using m=31 out of n=531 physicochemical 
properties, where the values of SVM parameters are C=4 and =0.5. The 31 
informative physicochemical properties constitute a good feature set obtained by 
considering the inter-correlation among properties. 
 
The quantified effectiveness of individual physicochemical properties on 
prediction is useful to characterize the ubiquitylation mechanism by physicochemical 
properties. Orthogonal experimental design with factor analysis [28] [110] can be 
used to estimate the individual effects of physicochemical properties according to the 
value of main effect difference (MED) [52] [33]. The property with the largest value 
of MED is the most effective in predicting ubiquitylation sites.  
 
 
 
Figure 5.4.6 The system flow of prediction system UbiPred. 
 
According to MED, the 31 informative properties are ranked and their 
descriptions are shown in Table 5.4.1. The most effective property with MED=31.79 
is NADH010102 denoting “hydropathy scale based on self-information values in the 
two-state model of 9% accessibility”. The least effective properties with MED=1.32 
57 
 
properties (0.74), amino acid identity (0.70) and evolutionary information (0.71). 
Table 5.4.2 The MEDs for 31 mined physicochemical property. 
AAindex  
identity 
Description MED 
NADH010102 Hydropathy scale based on self-information values in 
the two-state model of 9% accessibility 
31.79 
BROC820102 Retention coefficient in HFBA  29.80 
MEIH800102 Average reduced distance for side chain  28.48 
LEVM780101 Normalized frequency of alpha-helix, with weights  25.17 
GUYH850104 Apparent partition energies calculated from Janin 
index  
23.84 
CORJ870101 NNEIG index  23.18 
RACS770102 Average reduced distance for side chain  22.52 
GEOR030108 Linker propensity from helical (annotated by DSSP) 
dataset 
22.52 
HARY940101 Mean volumes of residues buried in protein interiors  21.85 
GRAR740102 Polarity  19.87 
GUYH850105 Apparent partition energies calculated from Chothia 
index  
19.87 
MEIH800103 Average side chain orientation angle  17.88 
KRIW790102 Fraction of site occupied by water  17.88 
LEVM780106 Normalized frequency of reverse turn, unweighted  14.57 
BULH740102 Apparent partial specific volume  13.25 
FAUJ880101 Graph shape index  11.92 
PUNT030102 Knowledge-based membrane-propensity scale from 
3D_Helix in MPtopo databases  
10.60 
HUTJ700103 Entropy of formation  9.93 
EISD840101 Consensus normalized hydrophobicity scale  8.61 
CEDJ970105 Composition of amino acids in nuclear proteins 
(percent) 
7.28 
ZIMJ680102 Bulkiness  7.28 
CEDJ970103 Composition of amino acids in membrane proteins 
(percent) 
5.96 
CHOC760103 Proportion of residues 95% buried  5.30 
CEDJ970102 Composition of amino acids in anchored proteins 
(percent) 
5.30 
ROSM880102 Side chain hydropathy, corrected for solvation  4.64 
BROC820101 Retention coefficient in TFA  4.64 
FAUJ830101 Hydrophobic parameter pi  1.99 
NAKH920101 AA composition of CYT of single-spanning proteins  1.99 
ZHOH040102 The relative stability scale extracted from mutation 
experiments  
1.99 
NAKH900101 AA composition of total proteins  1.32 
59 
 
confidence value 0.96 can be interpreted as ‘given a peptide with a central residue 
lysine (w=21), if the average reduced distance for side chain [111] (property 
MEIH800102) is less than or equal to 0.95381, then the residue is a 
non-ubiquitylation site with a confidence value 0.96’. This rule covers 23 sites in the 
training dataset and no site is misclassified by this rule.  
 
There is only one of five classification rules for identifying ubiquitylation sites 
with a moderate confidence value 0.54. This rule means that if the average reduced 
distance for side chain is larger than 0.95381, then the residue is an ubiquitylation site 
with a confidence value 0.54. This rule reveals that the ubiquitylation sites are not 
easily discriminated from non-ubiquitylation sites. Furthermore, the property 
MEIH800102 plays an important role in predicting ubiquitylation sites. Examining 
the MED value (28.48) of MEIH800102 in Table 5.4.2, it is rather consistent that 
MEIH800102 is an informative property with a rank 3.  
 
 
 
Figure 5.4.8 The derived decision tree by using C5.0 and the features of informative 
physicochemical properties for classification of ubiquitylation sites. 
 
 
The second rule means that if the mean volume of residues buried in protein 
interiors [112] (property HARY940101) is larger than 135.2 and the NNEIG index 
[113] (property CORJ870101) is larger than 49.70762, then the residue is a 
non-ubiquitylation site with a confidence value 0.90’. This rule covers 49 samples in 
61 
 
promising ubiquitylation sites from putative non-ubiquitylation sites, a scoring 
method is designed by normalizing the range of the decision values of SVM obtained 
from the training dataset of w=21 into the range [0, 1] of prediction scores. Normally, 
the default threshold value 0 used by the SVM classifier for discriminating 
ubiquitylation sites from non-ubiquitylation sites is mapped to a prediction score 0.5. 
The site with a prediction score close to 1 has a high possibility to be an 
ubiquitylation site. If the high prediction score 0.85 instead of 0.5 was adopted when 
classifying the peptides in the training dataset for all window sizes, there would be no 
false positive.  
 
The prediction system UbiPred is applied to score 3424 putative 
non-ubiquitylation sites in an independent dataset that are not included in the training 
dataset of w=21, as shown in Figure 5.4.6. There are 1218 putative non-ubiquitylation 
sites with scores larger than 0.5. There are 23 peptides with scores larger than 0.85, 
which are the most promising ubiquitylation sites, listed in Table 5.4.4. The detailed 
information can be found in the website of UbiPred. The sequence logo of the 23 
peptides shown in Figure 5.4.9 represents low information content similar to the 
sequence logo of the 151 positive samples in training dataset.  
 
 
 
Table 5.4.4 List of 23 promising ubiquitylation sites identified from an independent dataset of 
3424 putative non-ubiquitylation sites. 
 
Accession 
number Position Score 
Accession 
number Position Score
Accession 
number Position Score
P19358 114 0.99 P39976 323 0.90 P38080 809 0.87 
Q9Y6K9 35 0.96 P38261 147 0.89 P10592 54 0.87 
P25694 6 0.96 P25360 846 0.89 P38080 792 0.87 
P40087 325 0.95 P09936 195 0.88 P12866 129 0.86 
Q08412 232 0.93 P10591 54 0.88 Q05911 460 0.86 
P04629 609 0.91 Q06408 156 0.87 P40087 410 0.86 
P16603 165 0.91 P37303 283 0.87 P38075 10 0.86 
P31539 626 0.91 P32467 38 0.87    
 
 
 
63 
 
the investigated prediction problem by selecting a small number m out of n properties 
while cooperating with SVM simultaneously, it is equivalent to solve the binary 
combinatorial optimization problem having a huge search space of C(n, 
m)=n!/(m!(n-m)!)). To solve this problem, an informative physicochemical property 
mining algorithm (IPMA) capable of simultaneous feature selection and classifier 
design is proposed to mine informative physicochemical properties for predicting 
CTL and HTL responses. 
 
5.4.3.2. Proposed prediction systems 
Two prediction systems named POPI and POPI-MHC2 were proposed to predict 
immunogenicity of MHC class I and II binding peptides, respectively. High 
performance of POPI and POPI-MHC2 arises mainly from the inheritable bi-objective 
genetic algorithm which aims to automatically determine the best number m out of 
531 physicochemical properties, identify these m properties, and tune SVM 
parameters simultaneously. The datasets of PEPMHCI and PEPMHCII consisting of 
428 human MHC class I binding peptides and 226 human MHC class II binding 
peptides. All the peptides belongs to four classes of immunogenicity and are extracted 
from MHCPEP, a database of MHC-binding peptides [126]. Table 5.4.5 show the used 
datasets PEPMHCI and PEPMHCII of peptides associated with human MHC class I 
and II molecules, respectively. By applying the proposed IPMA to the experimental 
datasets, two prediction systems of POPI and POPI-MHC2 were constructed by using 
the selected informative physicochemical properties. 
 
The IPMA is performed to mine informative physicochemical properties using 
the whole datasets of PEPMHCI and PEPMHCII. In this study, the parameters of 
IPMA are set as Npop=50, Pc=0.8, Pm=0.05, rstart=5 and rend=45. For each feature set 
with size r, IPMA selected a small set of physicochemical properties and parameter 
values of SVM. Figure 5.4.10 shows a potentially good result for PEPMHCI in terms 
of averaged accuracy (AA) and the number of used features obtained from a single run 
of IPMA using 10-CV. The result reveals that the best number of selected features is 
m=23 where the SVM classifier with C=2 and γ=2 has the best averaged accuracy 
AA=63.67% and overall accuracy OA=66.12%. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
65 
 
Furthermore, the performance of feature selection of IPMA is much better than 
that of the rank-based method. This result is well recognized that the feature selection 
by additionally considering the correlated effects among physicochemical properties 
can advance prediction performance. 
 
 
5.4.3.3. POPI for predicting immunogenicity of MHC class I binding peptides 
The immunogenicity of a peptide is determined by measuring the concentration 
of peptides giving 50% of maximum specific lysis by CTLs of target cells displaying 
the peptide, and is given a descriptive value belonging to the four classes, None, Little, 
Moderate, High. POPI utilizing the 23 selected properties performs well with the 
accuracy of 64.72% using leave-one-out cross-validation (LOOCV). For comparison, 
sequence alignment-based and affinity-based methods were implemented to evaluate 
the LOOCV performances.  
 
Sequence alignment may be an efficient approach to predicting peptide 
immunogenicity because similar sequences may have similar peptide immunogenicity. 
In order to compare the alignment-based prediction methods with POPI, two methods 
including global sequence alignment tool ALIGN [127] and advanced sequence 
comparison method PSI-BLAST that is capable of detecting remote homologues [105] 
were applied to search for similar sequences. 
 
In the past, affinity was considered as an important index to predict peptide 
immunogenicity. To evaluate the affinity-driven prediction method, an additional 
dataset was established by extracting MHC class I binding peptides with known 
activity levels in both fields of ‘BINDING’ and ‘IMMUNOGENICITY’ from the 
MHCPEP database. However, there are four levels in the field of 
‘IMMUNOGENICITY’, but the field of ‘BINDING’ has only three levels without the 
level ‘none’. To fairly evaluate the prediction performance of the affinity-driven 
prediction, the immunogenic class None was combined with the class Little. The 
dataset contains 160 peptides belonging to three classes.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
67 
 
Table 5.4.7 Performance comparison between AFFIPRE and POPI-MHC2 
 
AFFIPRE POPI-MHC2 Immunogenicity 
class 
Peptides 
ACC (%) MCC ACC (%) MCC 
None and Little 21 23.81 0.30 42.86 0.49 
Moderate 6 33.33 -0.08 0.00 -0.07 
High 42 50.00 0.16 92.86 0.41 
OA 40.58  69.57  
AA 35.71  45.24  
 
For comparing with affinity-based prediction, another dataset consisting of 69 
peptides with annotated binding and immunogenicity level was constructed. 
POPI-MHC2 (69.57%) performs better than the affinity-based method (40.5%) shown 
in Table 5.4.7. The poor performance of AFFIRE (OA=40.58 and AA=35.71%) 
implies that affinity is not the deterministic factor for peptide immunogenicity of 
MHC class II binding peptide. Instead, physicochemical properties might play more 
important roles for determining the immunogenicity. 
 
Users can use POPI-MHC2 by entering either a sequence or a file of sequences 
of MHC binding peptides. The predicted immunogenicity levels will be shown in the 
web page. POPI-MHC2 is publicly available at http://iclab.life.nctu.edu.tw/POPI 
 
 
5.4.3.5. Analysis of informative physicochemical properties 
After identification of informative physicochemical properties, it is desired to 
analyze and interpret the obtained knowledge. Revealing individual effects of 
identified physicochemical properties on immunogenicity of MHC class II-restricted 
peptides is important for immunologist to further investigate immunogenic problems. 
Factor analysis of the orthogonal experimental design used in IPMA can efficiently 
estimate effects of an individual feature by evaluating its main effect difference 
(MED). The property with the largest MED value is the most effective property.  
 
Because IPMA is a non-deterministic algorithm and SVM parameter values will 
slightly affect prediction accuracy, the identified feature sets with the highest accuracy 
obtained from multiple independent runs would be not the same. In order to obtain a 
robust feature set, 60 independent runs of IPMA were performed for identifying 
69 
 
Table 5.4.8 Individual effects of identified properties for CTL responses in terms 
of main effect difference (MED). 
 
ID of AAindex Description MED Class
GEIM800103 Alpha-helix indices for beta-proteins  33.29  S 
OOBM770104 Average non-bonded energy per residue  31.97  O 
PALJ810115 Normalized frequency of turn in alpha+beta class  24.91  S 
QIAN880132 Weights for coil at the window position of -1  23.90  S 
OOBM850102 Optimized propensity to form reverse turn  17.09  S 
NADH010106 Hydropathy scale based on self-information values 
in the two-state model (36% accessibility)  
14.79  H 
RADA880106 Accessible surface area  11.64  V 
QIAN880112 Weights for alpha-helix at the window position of 5 10.71  S 
WEBA780101 RF value in high salt chromatography 10.65  O 
QIAN880125 Weights for beta-sheet at the window position of 5 10.63  S 
JOND750101 Hydrophobicity 9.27  H 
QIAN880124 Weights for beta-sheet at the window position of 4 9.06  S 
MUNV940101 Free energy in alpha-helical conformation 7.44  S 
HUTJ700102 Absolute entropy  6.62  V 
MITS020101 Amphiphilicity index 5.10  H 
KARP850103 Flexibility parameter for two rigid neighbors  4.63  O 
FAUJ880113 pK-a(RCOOH)  4.37  S 
ISOY800106 Normalized relative frequency of helix end  4.31  S 
RACS820113 Value of theta(i)  3.25  S 
GEOR030105 Linker propensity from small dataset (linker length 
is less than six residues) 
3.05  S 
QIAN880114 Weights for beta-sheet at the window position of -6 2.99  S 
DIGM050101 Hydrostatic pressure asymmetry index, PAI  1.60  O 
MIYS850101 Effective partition energy  0.80  H 
H: hydrophobicity; S: structure; V: volume; O: others 
 
71 
 
The situation is similar that all the hydrophobicity- and structure-related 
properties take a large proportion (close to 75%) among all properties. The major 
difference is that the categorized properties with the largest proportion for HTL (43%) 
and CTL (57%) responses are the hydrophobicity and structure classes, respectively. 
In other words, hydrophobicity-related properties are more important for HTL 
responses, compared with CTL responses. In contrast, structure-related properties are 
more important for CTL than HTL responses.  
 
The great importance of structure- and hydrophobicity-related properties for CTL 
and HTL responses, respectively, can also be observed by the MED-based analysis for 
ranking individual effects of informative physicochemical properties. For CTL 
responses, the most effective property of AAindex identity GEIM800103 with 
MED=33.29 is ‘Alpha-helix indices for beta-proteins’ [128] (Table 5.4.8). In contrast, 
the property of AAindex identity KUHL950101 denoting ‘Hydrophilicity scale’ [130] 
is the most effective property with MED=46.06 for HTL responses (Table 5.4.9).  
 
 
 
Figure 5.4.11 Pie-chart representations of compositions of categorized 
physicochemical properties of peptides responsible for CTL and HTL responses 
 
From the perspective of similarity, the CTL response-related property of 
AAindex identity MIYS850101 denoting ‘Effective partition energy’ highly correlate 
with two HTL response-related properties of AAindex identities BIOV880102 and 
DESM900102 denoting ‘Information value for accessibility; average fraction 23%’ 
and ‘Average membrane preference: AMP07’ with CC values of 0.93 and 0.83, 
respectively. All three properties are hydrophobicity-related properties. Both 
volume-related properties of AAindex identities RADA880106 and HUTJ700102 
73 
 
5.4.4. Identification of T-cell receptor recognition sites 
5.4.4.1 Introduction 
Compared to the knowledge of anchor positions of peptides for MHC binding, 
previous studies for identifying T-cell receptor (TCR) recognition positions were 
based on small-scale analyses using only a few peptides and concluded different 
recognition positions. Large-scale analyses are necessary to better characterize and 
predict a peptide’s T-cell reactivity (and thus immunogenicity). The identification and 
characterization of important positions influencing T-cell reactivity will provide 
insights into the underlying mechanism of immunogenicity. In Chapter 5.4.3, the 
POPI prediction systems are proposed to predict peptide immunogenicity with 
reasonably high accuracy. However, the effect of MHC alleles on immunogenicity 
was not considered. Also, it is hard to identify T-cell receptor recognition sites 
because of the used averaged features. In this chapter, a weighted degree string kernel 
is proposed to identify T-cell receptor recognition sites and improve prediction 
performances by considering the effects of positions and MHC alleles. 
 
The first predictor for T-cell reactivity published is POPI [52]. POPI is a support 
vector machine (SVM)-based method trained on 23 informative physicochemical 
properties of MHC class I binding peptides. While POPI performs reasonably well, it 
uses averaged physicochemical properties to represent peptides independent of their 
length. It thus does not allow for identifying relevant positions of the peptide for 
T-cell reactivity. The method thus cannot yield structural insights into T-cell reactivity. 
 
In previous studies on the formation of the TCR-peptide-MHC complex, crystal 
structures have been analyzed [138-140] to correlate structural features of the TCR 
with immunogenicity and to identify TCR recognition positions. However, due to the 
low number of available crystal structures of the ternary complex, these are just case 
studies, with limited potential for generalization. For example, two studies found 
different important positions of HLA-A2 binding peptides for TCR recognition 
(position 8 [140]; positions 4 and 6 [138]). As an alternative approach to T-cell 
reactivity, experiments with substitutions and cytotoxicity assays have been 
performed for HLA-B27 [141]. However, so far results are based on only a few 
peptides. Large-scale analyses are thus desirable to better characterize the important 
positions of MHC binding peptides for immunogenicity.  
 
In this work, a systematic statistical approach is proposed for the prediction of 
T-cell reactivity. This study presents a more advanced machine learning study 
considering the effects of MHC restriction on immunogenicity. In order to better 
characterize the immunogenicity induced by MHC class I binding peptides, we 
75 
 
immunogenicity data are extracted from the fields of ‘Epitope’, ‘MHC Restriction’, 
‘MHC binding’, ‘T cell response’, respectively.  
 
Only peptides with positive binding annotation were selected for analyses. These 
peptide sequences were grouped into allele-specific datasets according to their 
associated HLA supertypes [153]. In order to utilize all available data for analyses, 
peptides with contradictory annotations (immunogenic and non-immunogenic) were 
regarded as immunogenic peptides. After removing duplicate entries, the dataset of 
allele HLA-A2 (named IMMA2) consists of 558 immunogenic and 527 
non-immunogenic peptides. The IMMA2 dataset is available at 
http://iclab.life.nctu.edu.tw/POPISK/download.php. This study focuses on HLA-A2 
because it is one of the best known allele. It is easy to compare results obtained from 
this study and previous knowledge. Also, due to the small number of peptides 
associated with the other alleles, it is hard to create robust models for the other alleles. 
 
5.4.4.3. Weighted degree string kernel 
An effective weighted degree string kernel [145, 154, 155] counting the numbers 
of matched subsequences of length p at corresponding positions of two sequences is 
applied to transform samples to high-dimensional space to make linear separation 
easier. Given two sequences si and sj of equal length L and degree d, the weighted 
degree string kernel computes the total numbers of matched subsequences of length p 
  {1, …, d} at corresponding positions l of two sequences, defined as follows: 
1
, ,
1 1
(s , s ) ( (s ) (s ))
L pd
i j p p l i p l j
p l
k I u u
 
 
   ,                  (1) 
where I(h)=1 if h is true; otherwise, I(h)=0, up,l(s) is the subsequence of length p 
starting from position l of peptide sequence s, and βp are weighted coefficients. In this 
study, sequence length L is 9. The fixed values of βp=2(d-p+1)/(d(d+1)) are adopted as 
used in previous study [145]. Shogun [156] release 0.6.7 was used and LIBSVM [125] 
was chosen for the implementation of the predictor. 
 
5.4.4.4. Prediction of peptide immunogenicity 
To accurately predict immunogenicity of HLA-A2 binding peptides, it is 
necessary to tune two parameters (cost parameter C of the SVM and degree d of the 
weighted degree kernel) to build an accurate SVM classifier. In this study, a nested 
10-fold cross-validation (10-CV) procedure was adopted to evaluate the prediction 
performance of our string kernel-based SVM classifier as it provides an almost 
unbiased estimate of the prediction error [157].  
77 
 
informative physicochemical properties mined by using an inheritable bi-objective 
genetic algorithm. It is not fair to directly compare the results of POPISK with POPI 
because POPI is a four-class prediction method that predicts a peptide as highly, 
medium, little and not immunogenic. Furthermore, POPI is based on a smaller dataset. 
In order to perform a comparison, a modified POPI method (POPI-modified) was 
constructed using the same dataset IMMA2 and the 23 informative physicochemical 
properties for binary prediction problem of immunogenic and non-immunogenic 
peptides. 
 
The evaluation procedures of POPI-modified are described as follows. First, the 
23 informative physicochemical properties were used to encode peptides of IMMA2 
dataset. Subsequently, 20 runs of nested 10-CV were applied as follows. The grid 
search method was applied to tune the cost parameter C{2-4, 2-3, …, 24} and the 
kernel parameter γ{2-4, 2-3, …, 24} in the inner 10-CV loop. The SVM classifiers 
trained by using the selected parameters giving highest AUC performance in inner 
10-CV loop are used to evaluate the prediction performances in the outer 10-CV loop. 
 
Due to the difference of datasets and assays for measuring immunogenicity 
between the original POPI method and POPISK, another comparison using IPMA 
method to reselect informative physicochemical properties can provide better insights 
into the advantage of used string kernel method POPISK. However, due to the 
time-consuming nature of genetic algorithm, it is difficult to do 200 runs of IPMA. 
Considering the balance of preliminary results for comparisons and experiment efforts, 
20 runs of IPMA is applied to give a rough performance for comparison with POPISK. 
The evaluation procedures of POPI-IPMA are similar with POPI-modified. The only 
difference is that POPI-IPMA reselect informative physicochemical according to the 
validation performance instead of using 23 informative physicochemical properties 
selected by previous POPI method. 
 
The comparison of nested 10-CV performances of POPISK, POPI-modified and 
POPI-IPMA is shown in Figure 3.12. Obviously, POPISK dominates POPI-modified 
with 10% improvements of ACC and AUC. Although the performance of POPISK is 
2-5% better than POPI-IPMA, note that the POPI-IPMA utilize average feature could 
be further improved by changing the position-independent feature to consider the 
position effects of physicochemical properties. The nested 10-CV performances and 
corresponding SD values of POPI-modified are 0.60 and 0.009 for ACC, 0.64 and 
0.009 for AUC and 0.19 and 0.018 for MCC, respectively. The nested 10-CV 
performances and corresponding SD values of POPI-IPMA are 0.65 and 0.017 for 
ACC, 0.68 and 0.147 for AUC and 0.30 and 0.033 for MCC, respectively. By 
79 
 
process, the maximum value of degree parameter d is set to 8 (the same as the 
remaining peptide length). The decreases in performance as measured by MCC 
(ΔMCC) for these datasets are shown in Figure 5.2.13. Other performance measures 
(AUC, ACC) yield similar results (data not shown). Six positions (1, 4, 5, 6, 8 and 9) 
are identified as important positions since those of the prediction performance on 
datasets where the corresponding positions have been removed decreased 
significantly.  
 
To further investigate over- and underrepresented amino acids in corresponding 
positions, two-sample logos [152] are computed to graphically represent the 
differences between immunogenic and non-immunogenic peptides of all peptides in 
IMMA2. Statistically significant residues selected by using a two-sample t-test with p 
< 0.05 are represented in the logo. In addition, a widely used multiple-comparison 
correction (Bonferroni correction) is applied to eliminate false positives by adjusting 
the significance level. Figure 5.4.14 shows the resulting two-sample logo 
representations. The residues overrepresented in immunogenic peptides (shown in the 
upper half of Figure 3.14) are glycine, valine and threonine at positions 4, 6 and 8, 
respectively. On the other hand, the residues underrepresented in immunogenic 
peptides (shown in the lower half of Figure 5.4.14) are threonine and isoleucine at 
positions 6 and 9, respectively. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5.4.14 Two Sample Logo representation of over- (upper half) and 
underrepresented (lower half) residues in immunogenic peptides 
 
 
 
Our method successfully identified previously reported TCR recognition 
positions (4, 6 and 8) for HLA-A2 binding peptides from an analysis of crystal 
structures [138, 140]. Notably, the underrepresented residue isoleucine in position 9 is 
the anchor residue for peptides binding to HLA-A2 molecules[158]. However, 
81 
 
 
 
Figure 5.4.15 The over- (upper half) and underrepresented (lower half) position-specific 
properties in immunogenic peptides. (A) Hydrophobicity. (B) Normalized van der Waals 
volume. The symbols S, M and L indicate residues with small, medium and large 
hydrophobicity/volume, respectively. 
 
5.4.4.8. POPISK 
The prediction system named POPISK (Prediction Of Peptide Immunogenicity 
using String Kernels) was implemented by training an SVM classifier using weighted 
degree string kernel (parameters C=1 and d=9) on the whole dataset IMMA2. Users 
can either input a peptide sequence of length 9 that binds to HLA-A2 molecules or 
upload a file of multiple 9-mer sequences. POPISK will output the predicted 
immunogenicity (immunogenic or non-immunogenic) accompanied with a score 
(decision value of SVM) for the strength of immunogenicity. Peptides with a decision 
value larger than zero are considered immunogenic. The web server of POPISK is 
publicly available at http://iclab.life.nctu.edu.tw/POPISK. 
 
To evaluate the prediction and analysis abilities of POPISK, a total of 17 crystal 
structures consisting of TCR, peptide of length 9 and HLA-A2 molecule were 
extracted from the Protein Data Bank (PDB) [162]. By removing entries with 
duplicate peptide sequences or modified amino acids, seven crystal structures (PDB 
ID: 1qrn, 1qse, 1qsf, 1ao7, 1oga, 2bnr and 2bnq) are used for the following analyses. 
These peptides are classified as immunogenic (1qse, 1ao7, 1oga, 2bnr and 2bnq) or 
non-immunogenic (1qrn and 1qsf) according to the original publications [140, 150, 
83 
 
 
Among the seven TCR-peptide-MHC structures taken for our analyses, three 
different TCRs, the A6 TCR (1qrn, 1qse, 1qsf, 1ao7), the V17V10.2 TCR from the 
T-cell clone JM22 (1oga), and the 1G4 TCR (2bnr, 2bnq) are present. Hence, a 
comparison from the structural perspective can only be performed for each type of 
TCR individually. Most interesting here is the A6 TCR, where structures with 
immunogenic as well as non-immunogenic peptides are available. The very high 
structural similarity among the structures with the A6 TCR has been stressed by Ding 
et al. [151]. These authors did not see any correlation between the overall shape of the 
complexes or rearrangements at the interface and immunogenicity. The overall 
structural similarity of complexes with the immunogenic peptide LLFGYPVYV 
(wild-type, 1ao7) with a POPISK score of -0.04 and the non-immunogenic peptide 
LLFGYAVYV (P6A, 1qrn) with a POPISK score of -0.26 was found to be highest. 
Also, between these two peptides no difference in their solvent-accessible surface 
areas could be determined. Figure 5.4.16 generated with BALLView 1.3 [163, 164] 
shows the two crystal structures of 1ao7 and 1qrn.  
 
There is only one significant difference of the enlarged cavity at position 6 of the 
non-immunogenic peptide LLFGYAVYV in the 1qrn complex, compared with the 
immunogenic peptide LLFGYPVYV in the 1ao7 complex. An ordered water 
molecule entered this cavity, leading to some rearrangements of amino acids to 
accommodate the water. However, the formation of a cavity, the small rearrangements 
and the entropic loss due to the conserved water account for only a fraction of the 
difference in complex dissociation constants [151]. A second difference was evident 
from shape complementarity analyses, showing a hole in the interface of P6A and a 
decrease in complementarity [165] affecting binding to residue at position 5. These 
findings show that even an in-depth structural analysis of the ternary complexes can 
only give hints on the immunogenicity of peptides, stressing the importance of 
large-scale statistical studies. 
 
 
 
 
85 
 
6.2. Achievements of the project 
The computer-aided vaccine design systems have been finished and the core 
high-performance optimization algorithm has been applied to a number of protein 
function prediction problems. In the three years, we have published many 
international journal papers and conference papers. The publication lists are given in 
Tables 6.2.1 and 6.2.2. The main part of the computer-aid design system – prediction 
of adaptive T-cell immune response is referred to the PH.D. dissertation of C.-W. 
Tung [166]. 
 
Table 6.2.1 The list of international journal papers 
Paper title Journal Year
POPI: Predicting immunogenicity of MHC class I binding 
peptides by mining informative physicochemical 
properties 
Bioinformatics, 
issue 8 
2007
ProLoc: Prediction of protein subnuclear localization using 
SVM with automatic selection from physicochemical 
composition features 
BioSystems, 
issue 2 
2007
ProLoc-GO: Utilizing informative Gene Ontology terms 
for sequence-based prediction of protein subcellular 
localization 
BMC 
Bioinformatics, 
vol. 9 
2008
Computational identification of ubiquitylation sites from 
protein sequences 
BMC 
Bioinformatics, 
vol. 9 
2008
Predicting protein subnuclear localization using 
GO-amino-acid composition features 
BioSystems, 
issue 2 
2009
Prediction of non-classical secreted proteins using 
informative physicochemical properties 
Interdiscip Sci 
Comput Life Sci  
2010
Improving protein secondary structure prediction based on 
short subsequences with local structure similarity 
Accepted by 
BMC Genomics 
2010
Predicting and analyzing DNA-binding domains using a 
systematic approach to identifying a set of informative 
physicochemical and biochemical properties 
Accepted by 
BMC 
Bioinformatics 
2010
Benchmark method for evaluating prediction methods on 
subcellular localization of eukaryotic and prokaryotic 
proteins 
PLoS ONE 
(under revision) 
2010
POPISK: T-cell reactivity prediction using support vector PLoS ONE 2010
87 
 
 
References  
1.  Ho, S.Y., L.S. Shu, and J.H. Chen,  Intelligent evolutionary algorithms  for  large 
parameter  optimization  problems.  Ieee  Transactions  on  Evolutionary 
Computation, 2004. 8(6): p. 522‐541. 
2.  Ho,  S.Y.,  J.H.  Chen,  and  M.H.  Huang,  Inheritable  genetic  algorithm  for 
biobjective 0/1 combinatorial optimization problems and its applications. IEEE 
Trans Syst Man Cybern B Cybern, 2004. 34(1): p. 609‐20. 
3.  Ha¨  mmerling,  G.J.,  Antigen  processing  and  presentation  –  towards  the 
millennium. Immunol. Rev, 1999. 172. 
4.  Deavin, A.J., T.R. Auton, and P.J. Greaney, Statistical comparison of established 
T‐cell  epitope  predictors  against  a  large  database  of  human  and  murine 
antigens. Mol Immunol, 1996. 33(2): p. 145‐55. 
5.  Kesmir, C., et al., Prediction of proteasome cleavage motifs by neural networks. 
Protein Eng, 2002. 15(4): p. 287‐96. 
6.  Bhasin, M. and G.P. Raghava, Pcleavage: an SVM based method for prediction 
of  constitutive  proteasome  and  immunoproteasome  cleavage  sites  in 
antigenic  sequences.  Nucleic  Acids  Res,  2005.  33(Web  Server  issue):  p. 
W202‐7. 
7.  Bhasin, M. and G.P. Raghava, Analysis and prediction of affinity of TAP binding 
peptides using cascade SVM. Protein Sci, 2004. 13(3): p. 596‐607. 
8.  Peters,  B.,  et  al.,  Identifying  MHC  class  I  epitopes  by  predicting  the  TAP 
transport efficiency of epitope precursors. J Immunol, 2003. 171(4): p. 1741‐9. 
9.  Donnes, P. and A. Elofsson, Prediction of MHC class  I binding peptides, using 
SVMHC. BMC Bioinformatics, 2002. 3: p. 25. 
10.  Nielsen, M., et al.,  Improved prediction of MHC  class  I and  class  II epitopes 
using  a  novel  Gibbs  sampling  approach.  Bioinformatics,  2004.  20(9):  p. 
1388‐97. 
11.  Donnes, P. and O. Kohlbacher, Integrated modeling of the major events in the 
MHC class I antigen processing pathway. Protein Sci, 2005. 14(8): p. 2132‐40. 
12.  Larsen,  M.V.,  et  al.,  An  integrative  approach  to  CTL  epitope  prediction:  a 
combined algorithm integrating MHC class I binding, TAP transport efficiency, 
and  proteasomal  cleavage  predictions.  Eur  J  Immunol,  2005.  35(8):  p. 
2295‐303. 
13.  William,  B.M.,  et  al.,  Acetylator  phenotyping  in  patients  with  malignant 
lymphomas,  using  caffeine  as  the metabolic  probe.  Pol  J  Pharmacol,  2004. 
89 
 
29.  Wu, Q., On the optimality of orthogonal experimental design. Acta Math.Appl. 
Sin., 1978. 1: p. 16. 
30.  Blythe,  M.J.  and  D.R.  Flower,  Benchmarking  B  cell  epitope  prediction: 
underperformance of existing methods. Protein Sci, 2005. 14(1): p. 246‐8. 
31.  Kawashima,  S.,  et  al., AAindex:  amino  acid  index  database,  progress  report 
2008. Nucleic Acids Res, 2008. 36(Database issue): p. D202‐5. 
32.  Ashburner, M., et al., Gene ontology:  tool  for  the unification of biology. The 
Gene Ontology Consortium. Nat Genet, 2000. 25(1): p. 25‐9. 
33.  Huang, W.L., et al., ProLoc: prediction of protein subnuclear localization using 
SVM  with  automatic  selection  from  physicochemical  composition  features. 
Biosystems, 2007. 90(2): p. 573‐81. 
34.  Chou, K.C. and H.B. Shen, Predicting eukaryotic protein subcellular location by 
fusing  optimized  evidence‐theoretic  K‐Nearest  Neighbor  classifiers.  J 
Proteome Res, 2006. 5(8): p. 1888‐97. 
35.  Chou, K.C. and H.B. Shen, Hum‐PLoc: a novel ensemble classifier for predicting 
human protein subcellular localization. Biochem Biophys Res Commun, 2006. 
347(1): p. 150‐7. 
36.  Bonin‐Debs, A.L., et al., Development of  secreted proteins as biotherapeutic 
agents. Expert Opin Biol Ther, 2004. 4(4): p. 551‐8. 
37.  Damas, J.K., L. Gullestad, and P. Aukrust, Cytokines as new treatment targets 
in  chronic  heart  failure.  Curr  Control  Trials  Cardiovasc Med,  2001.  2(6):  p. 
271‐277. 
38.  Chevallet,  M.,  et  al.,  Toward  a  better  analysis  of  secreted  proteins:  the 
example of the myeloid cells secretome. Proteomics, 2007. 7(11): p. 1757‐70. 
39.  Grimmond, S.M., et al., The mouse secretome: functional classification of the 
proteins  secreted  into  the  extracellular  environment.  Genome  Res,  2003. 
13(6B): p. 1350‐9. 
40.  Emanuelsson, O., et al., Locating proteins in the cell using TargetP, SignalP and 
related tools. Nat Protoc, 2007. 2(4): p. 953‐71. 
41.  Klee,  E.W.  and C.P.  Sosa, Computational  classification of  classically  secreted 
proteins. Drug Discov Today, 2007. 12(5‐6): p. 234‐40. 
42.  Bendtsen, J.D., et al., Feature‐based prediction of non‐classical and leaderless 
protein secretion. Protein Eng Des Sel, 2004. 17(4): p. 349‐56. 
43.  Bendtsen,  J.D.,  et  al.,  Improved prediction  of  signal peptides:  SignalP  3.0.  J 
Mol Biol, 2004. 340(4): p. 783‐95. 
44.  Pierleoni,  A.,  et  al.,  BaCelLo:  a  balanced  subcellular  localization  predictor. 
Bioinformatics, 2006. 22(14): p. e408‐16. 
45.  Bairoch, A., et al., The Universal Protein Resource (UniProt). Nucleic Acids Res, 
91 
 
Nucleic Acids Res, 2005. 33(Database issue): p. D325‐8. 
61.  Barrell, D., et  al., The GOA database  in 2009‐‐an  integrated Gene Ontology 
Annotation  resource.  Nucleic  Acids  Res,  2009.  37(Database  issue):  p. 
D396‐403. 
62.  Ciechanover, A., Early work on the ubiquitin proteasome system, an interview 
with Aaron Ciechanover.  Interview by CDD. Cell Death Differ., 2005. 12(9): p. 
1167‐77. 
63.  Hershko, A., Early work on the ubiquitin proteasome system, an interview with 
Avram Hershko. Interview by CDD. Cell Death Differ., 2005. 12(9): p. 1158‐61. 
64.  Wang, J. and M.A. Maldonado, The ubiquitin‐proteasome system and  its role 
in inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. Cell. Mol. Immunol., 2006. 3(4): p. 
255‐61. 
65.  Michalek, M.T., et al., A role for the ubiquitin‐dependent proteolytic pathway 
in MHC  class  I‐restricted  antigen  presentation. Nature,  1993.  363(6429):  p. 
552‐4. 
66.  Townsend,  A.,  et  al., Defective  presentation  to  class  I‐restricted  cytotoxic  T 
lymphocytes in vaccinia‐infected cells is overcome by enhanced degradation of 
antigen. J. Exp. Med., 1988. 168(4): p. 1211‐24. 
67.  Liu, W.J., et al., Polynucleotide viral vaccines: codon optimisation and ubiquitin 
conjugation  enhances  prophylactic  and  therapeutic  efficacy.  Vaccine,  2001. 
20(5‐6): p. 862‐9. 
68.  Wang, Q.M., et  al.,  Epitope DNA  vaccines against  tuberculosis:  spacers and 
ubiquitin  modulates  cellular  immune  responses  elicited  by  epitope  DNA 
vaccine. Scand. J. Immunol., 2004. 60(3): p. 219‐25. 
69.  Rodriguez,  F.,  et  al.,  DNA  immunization  with  minigenes:  low  frequency  of 
memory  cytotoxic  T  lymphocytes  and  inefficient  antiviral  protection  are 
rectified by ubiquitination. J. Virol., 1998. 72(6): p. 5174‐81. 
70.  Deavin, A.J., T.R. Auton, and P.J. Greaney, Statistical comparison of established 
T‐cell  epitope  predictors  against  a  large  database  of  human  and  murine 
antigens. Mol. Immunol., 1996. 33(2): p. 145‐55. 
71.  Keşmir, C., et al., Prediction of proteasome cleavage motifs by neural networks. 
Protein Eng., 2002. 15(4): p. 287‐296. 
72.  Bhasin,  M.  and  G.P.S.  Raghava,  Pcleavage:  an  SVM  based  method  for 
prediction of constitutive proteasome and  immunoproteasome cleavage sites 
in  antigenic  sequences.  Nucleic  Acids  Res.,  2005.  33(Web  Server  issue):  p. 
W202‐W207. 
73.  Bhasin, M. and G.P. Raghava, Analysis and prediction of affinity of TAP binding 
peptides using cascade SVM. Protein Sci., 2004. 13(3): p. 596‐607. 
93 
 
89.  Cui,  J.,  et  al.,  Prediction  of  MHC‐binding  peptides  of  flexible  lengths  from 
sequence‐derived  structural and physicochemical properties. Mol.  Immunol., 
2007. 44(5): p. 866‐77. 
90.  Wan,  J.,  et  al.,  SVRMHC  prediction  server  for  MHC‐binding  peptides.  BMC 
Bioinformatics, 2006. 7: p. 463. 
91.  Nielsen, M., C. Lundegaard, and O. Lund, Prediction of MHC class  II binding 
affinity using SMM‐align, a novel stabilization matrix alignment method. BMC 
Bioinformatics, 2007. 8: p. 238. 
92.  Herrmann,  J.,  L.O.  Lerman,  and  A.  Lerman,  Ubiquitin  and  ubiquitin‐like 
proteins in protein regulation. Circulation Res., 2007. 100(9): p. 1276‐91. 
93.  Welchman,  R.L.,  C.  Gordon,  and  R.J.  Mayer,  Ubiquitin  and  ubiquitin‐like 
proteins  as multifunctional  signals. Nat. Rev. Mol. Cell. Biol.,  2005.  6(8):  p. 
599‐609. 
94.  Tomlinson, E., et  al., Methods  for  the purification of ubiquitinated proteins. 
Proteomics, 2007. 7(7): p. 1016‐22. 
95.  Denis, N.J., et al., Tryptic digestion of ubiquitin standards reveals an improved 
strategy  for  identifying  ubiquitinated  proteins  by  mass  spectrometry. 
Proteomics, 2007. 7(6): p. 868‐74. 
96.  Hitchcock,  A.L.,  et  al.,  A  subset  of  membrane‐associated  proteins  is 
ubiquitinated  in  response  to  mutations  in  the  endoplasmic  reticulum 
degradation  machinery.  Proc.  Natl.  Acad.  Sci.  U.S.A.,  2003.  100(22):  p. 
12735‐40. 
97.  Jeon, H.B., et al., A proteomics approach to identify the ubiquitinated proteins 
in mouse heart. Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun., 2007. 357(3): p. 731‐6. 
98.  Kirkpatrick, D.S., et al., Proteomic identification of ubiquitinated proteins from 
human  cells  expressing  His‐tagged  ubiquitin.  Proteomics,  2005.  5(8):  p. 
2104‐11. 
99.  Matsumoto, M.,  et  al.,  Large‐scale  analysis  of  the  human  ubiquitin‐related 
proteome. Proteomics, 2005. 5(16): p. 4145‐51. 
100.  Peng, J., et al., A proteomics approach to understanding protein ubiquitination. 
Nat. Biotechnol., 2003. 21(8): p. 921‐6. 
101.  Denison, C., D.S. Kirkpatrick, and S.P. Gygi, Proteomic  insights  into ubiquitin 
and ubiquitin‐like proteins. Curr. Opin. Chem. Biol., 2005. 9(1): p. 69‐75. 
102.  Xue,  Y.,  et  al.,  NBA‐Palm:  prediction  of  palmitoylation  site  implemented  in 
Naive Bayes algorithm. BMC Bioinformatics, 2006. 7: p. 458. 
103.  Jones,  D.T.,  Improving  the  accuracy  of  transmembrane  protein  topology 
prediction  using  evolutionary  information.  Bioinformatics,  2007.  23(5):  p. 
538‐44. 
95 
 
120.  Dow, C., et al., Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus infection yields overlapping 
CD4+ and CD8+ T‐cell responses. J. Virol. , 2008. 82(23): p. 11734‐41. 
121.  Arnold,  P.Y.,  et  al.,  The majority  of  immunogenic  epitopes  generate  CD4+  T 
cells  that are dependent on MHC class  II‐bound peptide‐flanking  residues.  J. 
Immunol., 2002. 169(2): p. 739‐49. 
122.  Conant,  S.B.  and  R.H.  Swanborg, MHC  class  II  peptide  flanking  residues  of 
exogenous antigens influence recognition by autoreactive T cells. Autoimmun. 
Rev., 2003. 2(1): p. 8‐12. 
123.  Blythe,  M.J.  and  D.R.  Flower,  Benchmarking  B  cell  epitope  prediction: 
underperformance of existing methods. Protein Sci., 2005. 14(1): p. 246‐8. 
124.  Sarda, D., et al., pSLIP: SVM based protein subcellular  localization prediction 
using multiple  physicochemical  properties.  BMC  Bioinformatics,  2005.  6:  p. 
152. 
125.  Chang,  C.C.  and  C.J.  Lin,  LIBSVM  :  a  library  for  support  vector  machines. 
Software available at http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/libsvm. 2001. 
126.  Brusic, V., G. Rudy, and  L.C. Harrison, MHCPEP, a database of MHC‐binding 
peptides: update 1997. Nucleic Acids Res., 1998. 26(1): p. 368‐71. 
127.  Myers, E.W. and W. Miller, Optimal alignments in linear space. Comput. Appl. 
Biosci., 1988. 4(1): p. 11‐7. 
128.  Geisow,  M.J.  and  R.D.B.  Roberts,  Amino  acid  preferences  for  secondary 
structure vary with protein class. Int. J. Biol. Macromol., 1980. 2: p. 387‐389. 
129.  Miyazawa,  S.  and  R.L.  Jernigan,  Estimation  of  effective  interresidue  contact 
energies  from  protein  crystal  structures:  Quasi‐chemical  approximation. 
Macromolecules, 1985. 18: p. 534‐552. 
130.  Kuhn,  L.A., et al., Atomic and  residue hydrophilicity  in  the  context of  folded 
protein structures. Proteins, 1995. 23(4): p. 536‐47. 
131.  Degli  Esposti,  M.,  M.  Crimi,  and  G.  Venturoli,  A  critical  evaluation  of  the 
hydropathy profile of membrane proteins. Eur. J. Biochemistry, 1990. 190(1): p. 
207‐19. 
132.  Rajesh,  S.,  et  al.,  Ubiquitin  binding  interface  mapping  on  yeast  ubiquitin 
hydrolase by NMR chemical shift perturbation. Biochemistry, 1999. 38(29): p. 
9242‐53. 
133.  Sundberg,  E.J.,  et  al.,  Estimation  of  the  hydrophobic  effect  in  an 
antigen‐antibody  protein‐protein  interface.  Biochemistry,  2000.  39(50):  p. 
15375‐87. 
134.  Melton, S.J. and S.J. Landry, Three dimensional structure directs T‐cell epitope 
dominance associated with allergy. Clin. Mol. Allergy, 2008. 6: p. 9. 
135.  Mirano‐Bascos,  D.,  M.  Tary‐Lehmann,  and  S.J.  Landry,  Antigen  structure 
97 
 
different T cell signals are nearly identical. Immunity, 1999. 11(1): p. 45‐56. 
152.  Vacic, V.,  L.M.  Iakoucheva,  and  P.  Radivojac,  Two  Sample  Logo:  a  graphical 
representation of  the differences between  two sets of  sequence alignments. 
Bioinformatics, 2006. 22(12): p. 1536‐7. 
153.  Lund, O., et al., Definition of supertypes for HLA molecules using clustering of 
specificity matrices. Immunogenetics, 2004. 55(12): p. 797‐810. 
154.  Rätsch,  G.  and  S.  Sonnenburg,  Accurate  Splice  Site  Prediction  for 
Caenorhabditis  Elegans,  in  MIT  Press  MIT  Press  series  on  Computational 
Molecular Biology. 2003. p. 277‐298. 
155.  Sonnenburg,  S.,  et  al.,  Accurate  splice  site  prediction  using  support  vector 
machines. BMC Bioinformatics, 2007. 8 Suppl 10: p. S7. 
156.  Sonnenburg,  S.,  et  al.,  Large  scale multiple  kernel  learning.  J. Mach.  Learn. 
Res., 2006. 7: p. 1531‐1565. 
157.  Varma, S. and R. Simon, Bias  in error estimation when using cross‐validation 
for model selection. BMC Bioinformatics, 2006. 7: p. 91. 
158.  Hunt,  D.F.,  et  al.,  Characterization  of  peptides  bound  to  the  class  I  MHC 
molecule  HLA‐A2.1  by  mass  spectrometry.  Science,  1992.  255(5049):  p. 
1261‐3. 
159.  Falk, K., et  al., Allele‐specific motifs  revealed by  sequencing of  self‐peptides 
eluted from MHC molecules. Nature, 1991. 351(6324): p. 290‐6. 
160.  Jones, D.D., Amino acid properties and  side‐chain  orientation  in proteins: a 
cross correlation appraoch. J Theor Biol, 1975. 50(1): p. 167‐83. 
161.  Fauchere, J.L., et al., Amino acid side chain parameters for correlation studies 
in biology and pharmacology. Int. J. Pept. Protein Res., 1988. 32(4): p. 269‐78. 
162.  Berman, H.M., et al., The Protein Data Bank. Nucleic Acids Res, 2000. 28(1): p. 
235‐42. 
163.  Kohlbacher,  O.  and  H.P.  Lenhof,  BALL‐‐rapid  software  prototyping  in 
computational  molecular  biology.  Biochemicals  Algorithms  Library. 
Bioinformatics, 2000. 16(9): p. 815‐24. 
164.  Moll,  A.,  et  al.,  BALLView:  an  object‐oriented  molecular  visualization  and 
modeling framework. J. Comput. Aided Mol. Des., 2005. 19(11): p. 791‐800. 
165.  Baker,  B.M.,  et  al.,  Structural,  biochemical,  and  biophysical  studies  of 
HLA‐A2/altered peptide  ligands binding to viral‐peptide‐specific human T‐cell 
receptors. Cold Spring Harbor Symposia on Quantitative Biology, 1999. 64: p. 
235‐41. 
166.  Tung, C.‐W., Prediction of adaptive T‐cell immune response. PH.D. Dissertation 
of  Institute  of  Bioinformatics  and  Systems  Biology,  National  Chiao  Tung 
University, 2010. 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
日期： 98 年 11 月 5 日 
計畫編號 NSC 96-2628-E-009-141-MY3 
計畫名稱 以生物資訊最佳化方法發展電腦輔助疫苗設計系統 
出國人員
姓名 
何信瑩 
洪瓊慧 
服務機構
及職稱 
教授兼生科院副院長 
博士生 
交通大學生物資訊研究所 
會議時間 98年10月 9日至 
98年10月11日 
會議地點 上海 
會議名稱 (中文) 2009 年計算與系統生物國際會議 
(英文) The International Conference on Computational and Systems 
Biology 2009-ICCSB 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 利用物化特性預測非典型蛋白質分泌現象 
(英文) Prediction of non-classical secreted proteins using informative 
physicochemical properties 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
本人於2009年11月10日參與在中國上海所舉辦的「2009年計算與系統生物國
際會議」研討會，為 IEEE EMBS(Engineering in Medicine and Biology 
Socienty),IASIA(International Association of Scientists in the Interdisciplinary 
Areas)),上海交通大學聯合舉辦，由於近年來生物資訊愈來愈受重視，而如何結
合各領域在生物資訊中的應用也日趨重要，會議地點為Howard Johnson Hotel 
Songjiang Shanghai，一共邀請50多個來自各國演講者進行演講，聚集了在生物資
訊及生物工程等方面的學者共同來做交流討論。會議期間三天裡，一早由中正機
場搭直航班機90分鐘後達上海機場，再搭30分鐘接駁車到神旺飯店至會場，從入
住的飯店搭新開通的9號線捷運前往會場，9號線捷運的終點站便是松江新城，再
搭計程車前往會場，30分鐘車程算相當方便。本次發表之國際會議論文，利用物
化特性預測非典型外泌蛋白，是利用先前研究特徵選取技術發現物化為特徵的預
測系統。本論文主要有二項特色：（1）提出一套選取物化特性為特徵的演算法及
一套包括17個物化特性的特徵集合，並預測正確率高達82%（2）由選出的物化
特性的特徵集合，進一步了解非典型性外泌蛋白之序列Ｎ端的是一重要特性。由
於生物資訊與生物工程是跨領域的研究，因此論文題目較分散，但也因此多廣泛
學習，收穫豐富。 
二、 與會心得 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
日期： 99 年 3 月 24 日 
計畫編號 NSC 96-2628-E-009-141-MY3 
計畫名稱 以生物資訊最佳化方法發展電腦輔助疫苗設計系統 
出國人員
姓名 
何信瑩 
 
林意哲 
服務機構
及職稱 
交通大學生物資訊研究所 
教授兼生科院副院長 
交通大學生物科技系暨研究所 
碩士生 
會議時間 99年 2月26日至 
99年 2月28日 
會議地點 新加坡 
會議名稱 (中文) 2010 年第二屆計算機與自動工程國際會議 
(英文) 2010 The 2nd International Conference on Computer and 
Automation Engineering (ICCAE 2010) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 利用高效率物化特性篩選方法設計 DNA 連結蛋白質預測器 
(英文) Designing predictors of DNA-binding proteins using an 
efficient physicochemical property mining method 
一、 參加會議經過 
本人於2010/02/27參加2010-ICCAE為IEEE Computational Intelligence Society, 
IACSIT(International Association of Computer Science and Information Technology),
電子科技大學(University of Electronic Science and techonlogy)聯合舉辦。會議地點
為1 Raffles Boulevard, Suntec City, Singapore 039593。由於近年來生物資訊愈來愈
受重視，而如何結合各領域在生物資訊中的應用也日趨重要，邀請來自各國演講
者進行演說,同時有5間會議室進行來自各個國家的海報張貼與口頭報告發表學
術論文。在本會議中各國優秀學者到此聚會共同交流在自動化工程與電腦科技的
發展,促進眾多學術和科學界的領導組織共同合作。會會議期間三天裡，第一天
早上由桃園國際機場搭長榮直航班機4小時後底達新加坡機場,再搭20分鐘接駁
車到史丹福瑞士飯店(Swissôtel The Stamford),飯店至會場，從入住的飯店步行約
10鐘即可到達會議現場,相當方便。本次發表之國際會議論文，利用物化特性預
測非典型外泌蛋白，是利用先前研究特徵選取技術發現物化為特徵的預測系統。
次發表之國際會議論文，利用物化特性預測DNA結合蛋白，是利用先前研究特
徵選取技術發現物化特性為特徵的預測系統。本論文主要有二項特色: (1) 提出
一套選取物化特性為特徵的演算法及一套包括36個物化特性的特徵集合，並且預
測正確率高達80%。(2)由選出的物化特性的特徵集合，進一步了解DNA與結合
蛋白序列的功能是一重要特性。由於生物資訊與生物工程是跨領域的研究，因此
論文題目較分散，但也因此多廣泛學習，收穫豐富。 
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
1. 本計劃培養的研究生及部份產出成果促進國科會德國及東歐國家國際合作
人員交流 PPP 計畫(2009/1-2010/12)的順利執行, 國際學術合作對象為德國萊
比錫大學的 Prof. M. Middendorf. 
2. 本計劃的部份成果與德國杜賓根(T&amp；uuml；bingen)大學的 Prof.Oliver 
Kohlbacher 合作,共同發表免疫相關論文:POPISK: T-cell reactivity 
prediction using support vector machines and string kernels (PLoS ONE, 
under revision) 
3.本計劃的預測免疫系統網站已有甚多國際學者使用,論文引用率也開始增加,
後續的國際合作機會也會不斷增加. 
4.本計劃主持人與博士班學生童俊維(已畢業)以本計畫成果獲交大研究成果獎
勵.  
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
