II 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
█  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：█已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 █無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 █無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
在學術成就方面，我們做出了兩個方面的貢獻。首先針對同儕多媒體串流應用的一般性品質保證的方面，我
們提出了一個有效率的機制來預防同儕網路中最大的問題，及所謂的搭便車問題，以及基本品質保證的架
構，並設計一個基於賽局理論模型的激勵架構，能有效解決兩個問題。其次是我們針對多媒體串流應用於無
線行動網路上的一個重要癥結點，即能源耗損問題，提出了一個在大眾運輸系統中的偵測機制。以上兩個主
題皆能直接應用於真實系統中，作為現行問題的解決方案。 
於技術創新上，我們團隊藉由對於賽局理論於無線網路研究應用的豐富經驗與知識，將研究領域延伸到具應
用性的實務主題上，亦利用了最新的實作技術，可謂理論與實務相輔相成，此類型之應用已逐漸獲得國內外
學者重視。我們所建立的數學模型，模擬模組與實測經驗除了適用本主題外，也成為我們在研究相關議題上
的基石，在研究過程所獲取的經驗讓研究團隊累積了更多的研究能量，也使我們在相關領域上處於領先地
位。此外我們的成果也將藉由報告分享給國內外學術界參考，以期能激發更多具有前瞻性且有特色的學術與
實務研究。 
IV 
 
Abstract 
In the communication systems nowadays, wireless mobile communication has 
become the main stream in our daily communications. Due to the rising of 
personalized and immediate service such as social networks we discussed [1], 
accessing the Internet anywhere and anytime is and undoubted trend. Like we have 
discussed in [2], the rising of femtocell reflects this truth. Furthermore, the need of 
high data rate is also rising. People also request for high quality of services. Video 
streaming is one of the most important applications. Also, such applications are 
important key to other communication user experiences. Another important issue is 
the need of mobility. People need high quality of services even when they move in 
high speed. How to make the service stable, consistent, and low power consumption 
are very important research problems. If we can meet the need of users in high speed 
condition, it will not be a problem to fit similar needs in lower speed conditions. Thus 
we have proposed a cross-layer adaptive H.264/AVC streaming over IEEE 802.11e 
experimented testbed in our published paper[3]. Also, in transmission protocol design, 
we also published paper[4] about cross-layer design for VANET(vehicular Ad-hoc 
network).In designing next generation wireless communication protocols such as 
WiMAX and LTE, the researchers have already forecast the trend. Thus, several 
designs for high data rate transmission have been taken down in the standard. 
However, due to the nature restriction of higher layer protocol, traditional 
service-client structures have no longer met the need of improving multi-user service 
quality. Therefore, the researchers have changed their attentions to another approach, 
which is the structure of peer-to peer. Under this structure, every user in the system is 
both client and server simultaneously. This can fix several severe problems which 
take place in conventional structure such insufficient processing power or limited 
bandwidth of the server. Nevertheless, new problems rise. Since the structure highly 
depends on the participation of users, the services would become unstable in some 
cases. Also, free riding is also a very severe problem. In our research, we have 
provided a service provider assisted peer-to-peer structure to solve this problem. We 
also use game theoretic approach to analyze and conduct a possible mechanism for 
resolving the free-rider problems under the computing model. 
Aimed at mobile networking, we have proposed an efficient power saving 
mechanism for the mass rapid transit systems in [5]. We applied the accelerometer to 
design a sensing mechanism. The mechanism can detect the condition of a moving 
mass rapid transit device and do accordance behavior for power saving. Thanks to 
the protocol, we can save considerable power consumption of mobile 
communication devices. 
11 References 35
2
would become unstable in some cases. Also, free riding is also a very se-
vere problem. In our research, we have provided a service provider assisted
peer-to-peer structure to solve this problem. We also use game theoretic
approach to analyze and conduct a possible mechanism for resolving the
free-rider problems under the computing model.
Aimed at mobile networking, we have proposed an efficient power saving
mechanism for the mass rapid transit systems in [5]. We applied the ac-
celerometer to design a sensing mechanism. The mechanism can detect the
condition of a moving mass rapid transit device and do accordance behavior
for power saving. Thanks to the protocol, we can save considerable power
consumption of mobile communication devices.
In the first part of this report, we introduced service-provider-assisted
peer-to-peer (SPA-P2P) network which is deemed as a radical solution to
deal with the increasing scalability of peer-to peer (P2P) networks. Unlike
traditional P2P systems, the utility of service provider (SP) should also be
considered. To investigate SP’s and peers’ utilities, we construct a system
model for SPA-P2P service that provides differentiated QoS . We first ap-
ply game theoretic analysis on the basic equal-allocation scheme and point
out the disadvantages of this scheme. Then we propose an incentive mecha-
nism for SPA-P2P networks (IM-SPA) to encourage users to contribute their
resource and participate the P2P service. IM-SPA also generates nearly
optimal profit for SP and achieves desirable properties such as incentive
compatibility and individual rationality.
In the second part of this paper, we introduced a power efficient Wi-Fi
networking on public transportation system scheme which assisted by ac-
celerometer. Using mobile devices to access the network service over public
transportation system provides ubiquitous network access. Accelerometer
has become more and more popular in mobile handheld devices. We pro-
posed a power saving mechanism that integrates accelerometer (AAPS) and
4
address these problems, we apply game theory for analyzing peers’ interac-
tions in a SPA-P2P network since these interactive decision making processes
are exactly what game theory focuses on. Furthermore, the concept of Nash
equilibrium (NE) in game theory can be used as a criterion to examine the
stability of a SPA-P2P system. Therefore, game theory is considered as an
effective methodological tool to analyze the SPA-P2P networks.
Incentive mechanisms are designed to solve free-rider problems in pure
P2P file-sharing networks. Golle et al.. deal with this problem by adding
a payment via the micro-payment approach [10]. Ma et al. apply game
theory to provide incentive and service differentiation in pure P2P network,
to achieve max-min fairness and Pareto efficiency [11][12]. Sanghavi et al.
apply VCG mechanism to alleviate the free-rider problem by ensuring effi-
ciency of NEs [13]. Feldman et al. take whitewashing problem into account
and propose a penalty solution [14][15]. Yan et al. provide a ranking-based
optimal resource allocation and an admission control rule to block peers
with bad rankings [16]. Game theory is also widely applied to analyze the
existing incentive mechanisms in P2P networks [17][18].
However, previous works only focus on mechanisms for pure P2P net-
works (without SP) and most of them concentrate on the fairness and the
efficiency of the whole system. Different from the previous works, the core
idea of our work is the design of a truth-telling mechanism that optimizes
the utility of SP in a SPA-P2P network.
3. System Model and Game Formulation
3.1. System Overview
Consider a SPA-P2P computing service network, the peers share the
computing power equally. For example in a SPA-P2P video streaming net-
work, every one shares the same live streaming program. In such cases,
peers receive streaming packets from each other and meanwhile sending out
6
3.2. Game Formulation
To formulate our SPA-P2P computing system as a game model, we define
the very basic elements for a game:
1. Players: n peers, P1, ..., Pn, and a service provider, SP .
2. Strategy: For peer i, the strategy space is Si = {xi|0 ≤ xi ≤ xmax},
where xmax denotes the maximum computing power peer can afford.
For SP , the strategy space is Ssp = {xsp|0 ≤ xsp}
3. Utility: For peer i, we define its utility ui = vi(bi) − cixi, where ci
denotes the cost of providing one unit of computing power. vi() is the
valuation function which represents the value of the service for peer i.
As we mentioned before, the service quality depends on its allotted com-
puting power bi, which is allocated by the system. Here we define the valu-
ation function of peer:
vi(bi) =

vi,h, if bi ≥ bh
vi,l, if bl ≤ bi < bh
0, if bi < bl.
(1)
, where vi,h and vi,l are the valuations of high-quality and low-quality com-
puting service for peer i. We also define the utility of SP : usp = vsp(nh, nl)−
cspxsp, where csp denotes the unit cost of SP . vsp(·) is the valuation func-
tion of whole system for SP . It is in accordance with the number of users
enjoying the use of high-quality service, nh, and the number of users in low
quality, nl. We can define vsp(·): vsp(nh, nl) = vsp,hnh + vsp,lnl, where vsp,h
and vsp,l denote the unit revenue SP makes from one high-quality user and
one low-quality user, respectively. The revenue may be advertising revenue
or other income. For better understanding, here are several useful concepts:
Definition 1. BRi(s−i) is the best response function of player i if BRi(s−i) ={
si : ui(si, s−i) ≥ ui(s′i, s−i), ∀s
′
i ̸= si
}
where s−i denotes the strategy profile
of all other players.
8
0
P2’s strategy
P1
’s
 s
tra
te
gy
x1+x2=2bh
x1+x2=2bl
(0,0)
         P1’s BR
         P2’s BR
Figure 3: NE in 2 players game.
Figure 2 is an example of P1’s best response x1,BR and its utility u1. The
red line is x1,BR while the blue line is u1. The leftmost part of red line x1,BR
equals to 0. The middle part is the condition that P1 can obtain positive
utility in low-quality service. In the same time, its utility starts to grow up
until x2 exceeds 2bl. Here P1 does not have to contribute any resource and
still can enjoy the low quality service. In the rightmost part, P1 can obtain
a higher utility in high-quality than in low-quality; though its free to enjoy
service in low-quality. Therefore its utility starts to grow up again until it
reach its maximum utility v1,h when x2 exceeds 2bh.
Note that an intersection of two peers’ best response is a Nash equilib-
rium (NE). Because in that case, no one will deviate the point unilaterally.
Figure 3 is an example of NEs in 2-player game. There are three types of NE
in this example. The first one is the strategy profile (0, 0) because no one
will obtain positive utility when the other one is a free-rider. The second
type appears when x1 + x2 = 2bl. In these equilibria both peer can obtain
some positive utility while being served in low quality. In addition, the cost
is too high for a peer to make both peers enjoy the computing service in
10
resource bi, we have bi =
∑n
k=1 xk+xsp
n . The utility of Pi is:
ui =

vi,h − cixi,
∑n
k=1 xk+xsp
n ≥ bh
vi,l − cixi, bl ≤
∑n
k=1 xk+xsp
n < bh
0− cixi,
∑n
k=1 xk+xsp
n < bl.
(2)
In equal allocation scheme, there are only three situations: n high quality
peers, n low quality peers, or n peers which are unavailable to enjoy the
service. Therefore SP ’s utility is:
usp =

nvsp,h − cspxsp,
∑n
k=1 xk+xsp
n ≥ bh
nvsp,l − cspxsp, bl ≤
∑n
k=1 xk+xsp
n < bh
0− cspxsp,
∑n
k=1 xk+xsp
n < bl
(3)
For convenience, let x−i denotes the sum of all other peers’ strategies.
That is, x−i =
∑
k ̸=i xk.
Theorem 1 (Pi’s best response in n+1-players game). Given the value of
x−i and xsp, Pi’s best response xi,BR is:
1. case 1: If x−i + xsp ≤ nbl − vi,lci and x−i + xsp ≤ nbh −
vi,h
ci
,
xi,BR = 0 (4)
2. case 2: If x−i + xsp ≥ nbl − vi,lci and x−i + xsp ≤ nbh −
vi,h
ci
,
xi,BR =
 nbl − x−i − xsp, nbl − x−i − xsp > 00, else (5)
3. case 3: If x−i + xsp ≥ nbl − vi,lci and x−i + xsp ≥ nbh −
vi,h
ci
,
(a) If x−i + xsp ≤ nbh − vi,h−vi,lci
xi,BR =
 nbl − x−i − xsp, nbl − x−i − xsp > 00, else (6)
12
0
Total contribution from peers
SP
’s 
st
ra
te
gy
SP
’s 
ut
ilit
y
            SP’s BR
            SP’s Utility
Figure 4: SP’s BR in n+1 players game:
nvsp,h−nvsp,l
csp
< n(bh − bl)
4. case 4: If xp ≥ nbl − nvsp,lcsp and xp ≥ nbh −
nvsp,h
csp
,
(a) If
nvsp,h−nvsp,l
csp
≤ n(bh − bl),
i. If xp ≤ nbh − nvsp,h−nvsp,lcsp
xsp,BR =
 nbl − xp, nbl − xp > 00, else (11)
ii. Else:
xsp,BR =
 nbh − xp, nbh − xp > 00, else (12)
(b) If
nvsp,h−nvsp,l
csp
≥ n(bh − bl),
xsp,BR =
 nbh − xp, nbh − xp > 00, else (13)
Proof. The proof of this theorem is similar to theorem 1 so we omit it
here.
Figure 4 and 5 show two examples of SP ’s best response in n+1-players
game. Figure 4 is an example of the case that
nvsp,h−nvsp,l
csp
< n(bh−bl) while
14
(a) ∀i, xi = 0, xsp = 0, or
(b) ∀i, xi ≤ vi,lci , 0 ≤ xi ≤ xmax, xsp ≤
nvi,l
csp
, xsp ≥ 0, and xsp +∑n
i=1 xi = nbl, or
(c) ∀i, xi ≤ vi,h−vi,lci , 0 ≤ xi ≤ xmax, xsp ≤
nvsp,h−nvsp,l
csp
, and xsp +∑n
i=1 xi = nbh.
2. case 2: If
nvsp,h−nvsp,l
csp
≥ n(bh − bl)
∀x = {x1, x2, ..., xn, xsp}, x is an NE if and only if
(a) ∀i, xi = 0, xsp = 0, or
(b) ∀i, xi ≤ vi,h−vi,lci , 0 ≤ xi ≤ xmax, xsp ≤
nvsp,h
csp
, and xsp +∑n
i=1 xi = nbh.
Proof. Since a strategy profile is an NE if and only if every player’s strategy
is the best response to others’ strategies, the theorem can be easily proved
with theorem 1 and theorem 2. We omit the proof here.
5. Properties of Nash Equilibrium
After deriving the NE in n+1-players game, we notice that there are
some desirable properties, Pareto efficiency, social welfare maximization and
individual rationality, which attained at the third kind of NE in proposition
1. That is, every peer can enjoying high-quality service. Oppositely, other
two kinds of NE only have individual rationality attained. We will introduce
these properties and give the mathematical definitions in game theory here.
Definition 4. A strategy profile x∗ is Pareto efficient if ∃x′ ̸= x∗, ui(x′) >
ui(x
∗)⇒ ∃j ̸= i, uj(x′) < uj(x∗)
Theorem 4. The NEs of n+1-players game which makes the summation
of all players’ contribution equals to nbh is Pareto optimal. That is, for
all x∗ belong to this kind of NE satisfy ∃x′ ̸= x∗, ui(x′) > ui(x∗) ⇒ ∃j ̸=
i, uj(x
′
) < uj(x
∗)
16
resource allocated to it only decreases a little while its cost decreasing a lot.
In such cases, every peer would try to decrease its contribution level and
these actions result in the tragedy of commons. That is, even if the SP
contributes lots of resource to the system, peers still tend to free-ride and
no one can enjoy the service because of the lack of computing power. In
addition, the equal-allocation scheme does not guarantee the profit of SP ,
thus we turn to seek the solution from incentive mechanism design.
6. Incentive Mechanism Design
Mechanism design is setting rules which decide the outcome of the in-
duced game. In basic mechanism design problem, we assume that all players
have private information about their preferences for different outcomes and
only concern about their own utilities. In addition, every player has a quasi-
linear utility, which is a very common assumption in mechanism design.
Definition 7 (quasi-linear utility). A quasi-linear utility function for player
i is of the form: ui(o) = vi(x)− pi, where outcome o defines a choice x ∈ K
from a discrete choice set and a payment pi by the player.
Definition 8 (quasi-linear mechanism). A quasi-linear mechanism M =
(S1, ..., SI , k(·), t1(·), ..., tI(·)) defines:
1. The set of strategies Si available to each players;
2. A choice rule k : S1 × ... × SI → K, such that k(s) is the choice
implemented for a strategy profile s = (s1, ..., sI);
3. Payment rules ti : S1 × ...× SI → R for each player i to compute the
payment ti(s) made by player i.
Definition 9 (truth-revelation). A strategy si ∈ Si is truth-revealing if
si(vi) = vi for all vi ∈ Vi.
However, a player may reveal a ”fake” value if it can obtain a higher
utility when doing so. Incentive mechanism design focuses on this problem
18
v1
Bid:v1
’
Bid:v2
’
P1
P2
Some 
allocation 
Deal, p1
P4valuation:v1
Resource
Owner
Bid:v3
’
P3
rulesDeal, p2
No deal, 0  
valuation:v2
valuation:v3
Figure 6: Incentive Mechanism of SPA-P2P Model
This assumption is common in auction theory [20][19]. For example,
Gaussian, uniform, and exponential distributions all satisfy the monotone
hazard rate assumption [21].
Definition 14 (The optimal mechanism). Let F be the prior distribution of
agents’ valuation satisfying monotone hazard rate assumption. We denote
by MyeF(b) the optimal mechanism: on input b, output x to maximize the
virtual surplus (defined with respect to the distribution F).
7. Incentive Mechanism of SPA-P2P (IM-SPA)
7.1. IM-SPA Model
Consider a SPA-P2P system, every peer has its valuation to the service.
The valuation is the maximum cost it is willing to pay. With these valuations
revealed from peers, SP decides which peers can be served and sets the
payments for them. However, a peer may report fake valuation if it can
obtain higher utility by telling lie. Therefore, to collect correct information
from peers, we have to design a truth-telling mechanism for SP . Once SP
has correct information, he can make a right decision of outcome which
achieves system-wide goals. Figure 6 is an illustration of IM-SPA model.
20
the computing power. The computing power allocation game is defined as
followed:
1. Players: The player set I = {P1, ..., Pn} contains n peers.
2. Strategy: For every Pi, its strategy is to declare its valuations,
vˆi,h, vˆi,l.
3. Utility: For every Pi, its utility is ui = vi(A)−pi, where A = (Ah,Al)
is the outcome of the allocation process. pi is the computing power Pi
has to pay to the system. The valuation function vi:
vi(Ah,Al) =

vi,h, Pi ∈ Ah
vi,l, Pi ∈ Al
0, else
(14)
We also change SP ’s utility to the measurement of computing power, usp(Ah,Al) =∑
i pi − nh(bh − vsp,h)− nl(bl − vsp,l).
The optimal mechanism we introduced in previous section is a truth-
ful mechanism which also maximizes the auctioneer’s profit in single item.
Therefore, we consider the service with only high-quality at first. Given
the distribution of peers’ valuations, the optimal mechanism maximizes the
expected profit, Profit =
∑
i pi − c(Ah), where c(Ah) outputs the cost for
an outcome Ah. Since our objective is maximizing SP ’s utility usp, let
c(Ah) = nh(bh − vsp,h). Thus the profit maximized by the optimal mecha-
nism, Profit =
∑
i pi − nh(bh − vsp,h), is exactly usp.
Definition 15 (The optimal mechanism for computing power allocation).
Given the valuations declared from peers vˆh and the joint distribution of
peers’ valuation to the high-quality service, Fh, which satisfies assumption
2:
1. Compute the ”virtual valuation” v
′
h:
∀i, v′i,h = φi(vˆi,h) = vˆi,h −
1− Fi,h(vˆi,h)
fi,h(vˆi,h)
. (15)
22
that the maximization of expected profit is not guaranteed now, however,
we will show that SP ’s can still generate nearly-optimal profit for SP in
next section.
8. Properties of the IM-SPA
Previously, we apply the optimal mechanism to the single-quality model
and propose IM-SPA for two-qualities model. Once the monotone hazard
rate assumption is satisfied, the optimal mechanism is incentive compatible,
profit maximized and individual rational[19]. Here we examine IM-SPA to
see if these properties still remain.
Theorem 7. IM-SPA is incentive compatible.
Proof. Since IM-SPA always chooses the quality that profit the peer when it
is chosen by both single-quality mechanisms which are incentive compatible,
truth-telling is still the dominant strategy for every peers. Thus IM-SPA is
incentive compatible.
That is, every peer in the SPA-P2P network would like to bid a value
equal to its valuation because its expected utility can be maximized by
truth-telling. Furthermore, truth-revelation is an dominant equilibrium of
the game induced by IM-SPA. This equilibrium can be regarded as the
solution to the game. From system designer’s point of view, the solution
to the game is also the goal of mechanism design and the properties of the
equilibrium can also correspond to the properties of the mechanism.
Theorem 8. IM-SPA is individually-rational. That is, all peers’ expected
utilities are greater than 0, the expected utility without participant.
Proof. In IM-SPA, the service quality and the corresponded payment of
every peer are chosen from one of two optimal mechanisms which are indi-
vidually rational, thus IM-SPA is also individually rational.
24
10000
15000
20000
25000
30000
35000
40000
45000
e
x
p
e
ct
e
d
 u
ti
li
ty
usp,h
usp,l
0
5000
e
x
p
e
ct
e
d
 u
ti
li
ty
(vl,max|vh,max)
usp
usp,max
Figure 7: Comparison in expected utility.
,which is the expected utility when SP always chooses the quality that
generate more profit if Pi ∈ Ah and Pi ∈ Al.
Figure 7 is an example that vi,h is uniform distributed in [0, vh,max]
and vi,l is uniform distributed in [0, vl,max]. It is obvious that SP ’s expected
utility from IM-SPA is always greater than the maximized utility in only one
quality. In addition, the value is also close to usp,max, which cannot obtained
from existed incentive compatible mechanisms. Therefore, IM-SPA is still
an outstanding mechanism when the objective is profit maximization.
IM-SPA is incentive compatible and individually rational. It also gen-
erates a healthy profit for SP given the distribution of peers’ valuations.
Even if the distribution F is not available for SP , the mechanism can be
modified to an empirical optimal mechanism which simulatesMyeF−b(b) for
every i to obtain outcome x(i) and payment pi. Since for every peer i the
MyeF−b(b) is incentive compatible and individually rational, this empirical
optimal mechanism is also truthful and individually rational.
26
Figure 8: The scenario of Wi-Fi network over the public transportation system
Recently, accelerometer is equipped in many handheld devices such as
mobile phones, PDAs, and MP3 players (e.g. iPod touch). Accelerometer
can detect the acceleration in three dimensions - x-axis, y-axis and z-axis.
The power consumption of the accelerometer is pretty low (usually lower
than 1mW). In contrast, the power consumption of wireless interfaces in
mobile devices is relatively higher; the working power is up to 1000mW-
1400mW, and idling power is still about 830mW; fortunately, it consumes
only 130mW in sleep mode. Hence, if we can find a mechanism assisted
by accelerometer to determine when it should wake or sleep according to
the environmental change, we can save a significant amount of energy with-
out affecting the throughput performance. We proposed an accelerometer-
assisted power saving mechanism (AAPS) to provide this knotty problem
an all-in-one solution. With AAPS, we can make the MS sleep in all the
inter-station period and wake up at the proper time to interact with BS. The
proposed mechanism opens a totally new way to enable devices to adapt to
the vehicular environment for power efficient wireless networking.
28
only when the vehicle is near the station or in the station and reduce the
energy consumption significantly. AAPS can be implemented not only on
mobile devices but also on other kinds of wireless communication on vehicles.
For example, if we set the BS on the traffic lights or bus stops, the video
recorded by the monitor on bus can be uploaded when it stops near these
infrastructures. And in this scenario, AAPS also can provide a good power
saving solution.
9.2. Implementation of AAPS
In this section, we will introduce the implementation of AAPS. To begin
with, we have to understand the user behavior. While the users using the
mobile device, they may hold the mobile devices at will and slightly rotate
the device from time to time, so the z-axis of devices may not be vertical to
the ground all the time. Consequently, we should design a special mechanism
to analyze the output of accelerometer regardless of the way user holding
the device.
We can map the 3-D output of accelerometer to a vector in the 3-D
space. When the device is static, the vector G⃗ result from gravity would
point at somewhere in the 3-D space. If user rotate the device, the direction
of G⃗ will change accordingly, but
∣∣∣G⃗∣∣∣ is unchanged. When the vehicle is
vibrating, it will add as a random weight to the vector as G⃗+ n⃗ and cause
the vector to ”vibrate” in the 3-D space. Now we define the instantaneous
vibrating weight (IVW) as:
IV W =
∣∣∣G⃗+ n⃗∣∣∣− ∣∣∣G⃗∣∣∣
IVW can reflect the degree of vibration at a specific moment regardless of
the way user holding the device. To detect the vibration caused by vehicle in
the inter-station phase, we firstly define a weighting function w[t] to weight
the new IVW higher than the old ones. Now we weight the square of IVW
30
the accelerometer is triggered only in the near-station and in-station phase.
MS woke up from sleep mode when the trigger was rising. In this figure, the
MS woke at 63 seconds until it left the covering rage of BS. Consequently,
now we have implemented the AAPS in our system, and it can function
correctly in the environment of public transportation system.
9.3. Performance of AAPS
We took the experiments on Taipei MRT System, the most important
public transportation system in Taipei city. We use the ASUS EeePC 900
as our MS and BS, and we use Hitachi H48C 3-axis accelerometer as our
accelerometer, which is connected to our MS. The MS and BS use Wi-Fi and
work in ad-hoc mode. The BS sent a 30Mbps-CBR traffic to MS. The AAPS
was proved to adapt well in the environment of public transportation system
by our experiment. On average, AAPS can keep the MS in sleep mode in
96%-99.5% of the time in inter-station phase and save about 80%-90% of
the energy during that period. The following is part of the experiments
on the Mucha line of Taipei MRT system. The MS was on the vehicle and
moved from the Liuzhangli station to Technology Building station, and then
stopped at Technology Building station for a while, and moved toward the
Daan station.
In our experiment, we included other two experimental groups in com-
parison with AAPS group: The first one is the ”AlwaysON” group, which
keeps the wireless activated all the time, which means no power saving mech-
anisms included. The second one is ”RSSI 1/5DC” group, in which MS wake
from sleep mode periodically with 1/5 duty cycle to listen to beacons from
the BS. If the RSSI of signal from the BS is lower than certain level, the MS
will go back to sleep mode. This is one of the common mechanisms used for
saving the energy. The three groups - AAPS, AlwaysON and RSSI 1/5DC
- are tested under the same condition in the experiment.
32
Figure 11: The energy consumption for three schemes.
longer the inter-station period, the more energy AAPS can save. AAPS
is shown to be a practical power saving mechanism in the environment of
public transportation system.
10. Conclusion
In the first part, we discussed a general game theoretic service provider
assisted peer-to-peer computing scheme where the NEs in equal allocation
scheme can be divided into three kinds: high-quality, low-quality, and 0.
Every peer shares the same quality in these NEs but only the high-quality
equilibria are social-welfare-maximized, Pareto efficient, and individually
rational. However, high-quality equilibria are not guaranteed unless the
benefit-cost rate of SP is high. In addition, once the valuation function for
service quality is not discrete, the equal allocation scheme results in the
tragedy of commons. To solve these problems while also profit SP, we intro-
duce a new model for SPA-P2P service as well as an incentive mechanism,
IM-SPA. The proposed IM-SPA is proved incentive compatible, individually
rational, and is able to produce nearly-optimal expected profits for SP. IM-
34
[9] M. Hefeeda, A. Habib, B. Bhargava, Cost-profit analysis of a peer-to-peer media streaming
architecture, in: Proc. of Hawaii International Conference on Systems Sciences (HICSS-37).
[10] P. Golle, K. Leyton-Brown, I. Mironov, M. Lillibridge, Incentives for sharing in peer-to-peer
networks, Lecture Notes in Computer Science (2001) 75–87.
[11] R. Ma, S. Lee, J. Lui, D. Yau, A game theoretic approach to provide incentive and service
differentiation in P2P networks, ACM SIGMETRICS Performance Evaluation Review 32 (1)
(2004) 189–198.
[12] R. Ma, S. Lee, J. Lui, D. Yau, Incentive and service differentiation in P2P networks: a game
theoretic approach, IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking (TON) 14 (5) (2006) 978–991.
[13] S. Sanghavi, B. Hajek, A new mechanism for the free-rider problem, IEEE Transactions on
Automatic Control 53 (5) (2008) 1176–1183.
[14] M. Feldman, K. Lai, I. Stoica, J. Chuang, Robust incentive techniques for peer-to-peer
networks, in: Proceedings of the 5th ACM conference on Electronic commerce, ACM, 2004,
pp. 102–111.
[15] M. Feldman, C. Papadimitriou, J. Chuang, I. Stoica, Free-riding and whitewashing in peer-to-
peer systems, IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications 24 (5) (2006) 1010–1019.
[16] Y. Yan, A. El-Atawy, E. Al-Shaer, Ranking-based optimal resource allocation in peer-to-peer
networks, in: IEEE INFOCOM, 2007, pp. 1100–1108.
[17] S. Jun, M. Ahamad, Incentives in bittorrent induce free riding, in: Proceedings of the 2005
ACM SIGCOMM workshop on Economics of peer-to-peer systems, ACM, 2005, pp. 116–121.
[18] D. Levin, K. LaCurts, N. Spring, B. Bhattacharjee, Bittorrent is an auction: analyzing and
improving bittorrent’s incentives.
[19] R. Myerson, Optimal auction design, Mathematics of operations research (1981) 58–73.
[20] J. Bulow, P. Klemperer, Auctions versus negotiations, The American Economic Review 86 (1)
(1996) 180–194.
[21] T. Roughgarden, M. Sundararajan, Is efficiency expensive, in: Third Workshop on Sponsored
Search Auctions, 2007.
[22] A. Balasubramanian, Y. Zhou, W. Croft, B. Levine, A. Venkataramani, Web search from a
bus, in: Proc. ACM CHANTS, 2007, pp. 59–66.
[23] X. Zhang, J. Kurose, B. Levine, D. Towsley, H. Zhang, Study of a bus-based disruption-
tolerant network: mobility modeling and impact on routing, in: Proc. ACM Mobcom, 2007,
pp. 195–206.
36
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/01/17
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫五:同儕網路應用於車載隨意網路下之跨階層設計與最佳化
計畫主持人: 魏宏宇
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-002-138-MY2 學門領域: 網路
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
