21. INTRODUCTION
It has been demonstrated that microstrip antennas can be excited by using aperture-coupled feed
and its resonant frequency can be decreased with the increasing of the coupling slot length [1-2].
Besides, the advantages of the aperture-coupled microstrip antennas over coplanar microstrip line
or probe feed include the reduction of the spurious feed radiation, more degrees of freedom in the
feed design, and easy integration with circuit devices. For obtaining circularly polarized radiation,
a cross-slot aperture is often used [3-4], and in this case two degenerated resonant modes of the
microstrip antenna are excited in parallel by the microstrip feed line through the coupling of the
cross slot. The feed configuration would lead a narrow CP bandwidth, especially for the cavity
microstrip antenna with high quality factor. Moreover, the CP bandwidth would be decreased
when the slot lengths of the cross slot are increased to obtain a lower CP operating frequency. In
this letter, a new aperture-coupled feed configuration is proposed to improve the CP bandwidth.
We use a series microstrip-line feed configuration [5] to excite the microstrip antenna through a
ring slot in the ground plane. In addition, the CP operating frequency also can be significantly
decreased due to the existence of the ring slot. Details of the proposed antenna designs are
described and obtained CP performances are presented and discussed.
2. ANTENNA DESIGN AND SIMULATION
The geometry of the ring-slot-coupled CP microstrip antenna is shown in Fig. 1. A circular patch
of radius 20 mm is etched on a FR4 substrate of thickness 2.1 mm and relative permittivity 4.4.
The microstrip feed line and ring slot are respectively fabricated on the opposite sides of the other
FR4 substrate with the thickness of 1.6 mm. The mean radius of the ring slot centered below the
circular patch is r and the slot width studied here is fixed to be 1 mm. Two orthogonal modes of
the circular microstrip antenna are excited by the coupling strip in series through the ring slot in
the ground plane. To obtain a 50 Ω input impedance at the feed point, the microstrip-line
impedance transformer with the dimensions of l1 and w1 is connected to the coupling strip.
Besides, an optimum CP axial ratio can be found by tuning ls.
4are plotted in Fig. 4. Good CP radiations can be obtained at the broadsides directions, and a
strong back radiation is also observed. The antenna peak gain is around 1.6 dBi including the loss
of the microstrip feed line.
6Table Captions:
Table 1 Details of the antenna parameters and obtained experimental results for the studied
antenna prototypes; fc: center frequency, BW1: 10dB-input-impedance bandwidth, BW2:
3dB-axial-ratio bandwidth
Figure Captions:
Fig. 1 Geometry of the ring-slot-coupled CP microstrip antenna.
Fig. 2 Simulated results for the ring-slot-coupled (r = 15 mm) and cross-slot-coupled microstrip
antennas.
(a) return loss (b) axial ratio
Fig. 3 Measured results for the proposed antenna with different mean radii of the ring slot;
antenna dimensions are shown in Table 1.
(a) return loss (b) axial ratio
Fig. 4 Radiation patterns of the proposed antenna for the case of r = 12 mm measured at 1666
MHz.
(a) x-z plane (b) y-z plane
r = 9 mm, measured r = 12 mm, measured
r = 15 mm, measured r = 15 mm, simulated
8Fig. 1
10
Fig. 3
1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.9 2
Frequency, GHz
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
R
et
ur
n
L
os
s,
dB
1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.9 2
Frequency, GHz
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
A
xi
al
R
at
io
,d
B
(a)
(b)
