 2
一、中文摘要 
  理想的抗癌藥物之口服長效製劑需要能夠延長
抗癌藥物與胃腸道的接觸時間，進而能同時反制
多重抗藥性並抑制小腸排出藥物蛋白質(例如 P
醣蛋白；P-gp 或多重抗藥性相關蛋白質；MRPs)，
以促進抗癌藥物之生體可用率，因此本研究擬藉
由含泛艾黴素(epirubicin)之硫醇化幾丁聚醣/聚丙
烯 酸 奈 米 微 粒 (thiolated chitosan/polyacrylate 
nanoparticles；硫醇化 Ch/PAA 奈米微粒)來達成此
目標。經由黏性測試、黏膜之附著性、穿透式電
子顯微鏡、粒徑分析、表面電位、上皮穿膜電阻
及包埋率試驗，我們已找出硫醇化 Ch/PAA 之最
佳分子量及最適比例製備條件。我們發現硫醇化
幾丁聚醣/聚丙烯酸奈米微粒可加強泛艾黴素對
細胞之毒性。泛艾黴素包於硫醇化 Ch/PAA 奈米
微粒可明顯促進泛艾黴素於 Caco-2 細胞之積
聚。此配方可顯著促進泛艾黴素於老鼠小腸之吸
收。我們使用含泛艾黴素之硫醇化 Ch/PAA 奈米
微粒，藉由拮抗排出藥物蛋白質，並延長抗癌藥
物與胃腸道的接觸時間，以改善抗癌藥物之口服
吸收。 
關鍵詞：硫醇化高分子、幾丁聚醣、聚丙烯酸、
泛艾黴素、多重抗藥性、奈米微粒 
Abstract 
  A rational design for oral sustained-release 
dosage forms of anticancer drugs should prolong the 
residence time of drugs on GI mucosal membranes 
and circumvent multidrug resistance (MDR) by 
inhibiting efflux transporter proteins such as 
P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and multidrug 
resistance-associated proteins, MRP1 and MRP2. It 
is the aim of this study to develop a formulation of 
epirubicin in thiolated chitosan/polyacrylate 
nanoparticles (thiolated Ch/PAA nanoparticles). 
After evaluation using viscosity test, mucoadhesive 
study, particle size and zeta potential determination, 
transmission electron microscopy, transepithelial 
electrical resistance (TEER) study, and entrapment 
efficiency analysis, the optimal condition for 
preparing the formulation of epirubicin in thiolated 
Ch/PAA nanoparticles has been found. The thiolated 
Ch/PAA nanoparticles increased the cytotoxicity of 
epirubicin and significantly increased the 
intracellular accumulation of epirubicin in Caco-2 
cells. This formulation also significantly enhanced 
the intestinal absorption of epirubicin in rat 
intestines. The complicated regulation of MDR 
highlights the need for a multifunctional approach 
using an effective delivery system such as thiolated 
Ch/PAA nanoparticles to carry epirubicin for which 
efflux pump proteins are inhibited and GI residence 
time is prolonged to make significant improvement 
in the clinical activity of anticancer agents. 
Keywords: thiomer, chitosan, poly(acrylic acid), 
epirubicin, multidrug resistance, nanoparticles 
二、緣由及目的 
Resistance to structurally and functionally 
unrelated multiple drugs, known as multidrug 
resistance (MDR), is a leading obstacle in the 
treatment of many human malignancies. A rational 
design for oral sustained-release dosage forms of 
anticancer drugs should prolong the residence time 
of drugs on GI mucosal membranes and circumvent 
multidrug resistance (MDR) by inhibiting efflux 
transporter proteins such as P-glycoprotein (P-gp) 
and multidrug resistance-associated proteins, MRP1 
and MRP2. It is the aim of this study to develop a 
formulation of epirubicin in thiolated 
chitosan/polyacrylate nanoparticles (thiolated 
Ch/PAA nanoparticles). The combined use of 
thiolated chitosan and thiolated PAA has never been 
found in the literature. The stabilization results from 
the formation of electrostatic bonds between 
positively charged NH3+groups in chitosan and 
negatively charged COO− groups in PAA. 
Furthermore, thiolated polymers (thiomers) have the 
advantages of improved mucoadhesion, controlled 
release, permeation enhancement, and enzyme 
inhibition. The formation of disulfide bonds 
between thiol groups and mucins even further 
