 1
節能熱泵機之可調溫度控制器設計(I) 
國科會計畫結案報告 
計畫編號：NSC－95－2221－E－231－009 
執行期間：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
執行單位：清雲科技大學 電子工程系 
主 持 人：張政元 
共同主持人：潘欣泰 
計畫參與人員：蔣東建、古松志 
 
Abstract— Generally, a heat pump system is an 
energy saving machine, which moves the heat to 
chill or heat water. Traditionally, the controller of 
heat pump is designed by the programmable logic 
controller (PLC). The PLC is a convenient 
electrical facility to control many mechatronic 
machines, including heat pump system. However, 
the authors use an electronic component, 
micro-controller system 51 families (MCS-51) 
single chip processors, trying to be an alternative 
of heat pump controller. The merits of this 
approach include the cost down and capacity 
saving of controller. In addition, the designing of 
control becomes easier. The hardware design of 
MCS-51 based controller of heat pump is also 
developed to illustrate the enhancement. 
 
Key-words:  — MCS-51, single chip processors, 
PLC, heat pump, mechatronic.  
 
1 Introduction 
A heat pump system is a machine that can 
transmit thermal energy into water, letting the cold 
water turn into the hot water, shown in Fig. 1(a). It 
uses the theory of heat exchange; raising the 
efficiency of heat with effective and fully utilizing 
the energy, shown in Fig. 1(b). So, it is a new-type 
of water heater which combines the merits of solar 
water heater and electric water heater perfectly. A 
heat pump system does not adopt the way of 
burning to produce thermal energy. It absorbs 
nature thermal energy and transmits into water, so 
it will not produce the carbon dioxide even 
discharge waste and cause thermal pollution [11]. 
Hence, it is the most perfect heater at present. 
Additionally, a heat pump can provide hot water 
and cold water in the mean time. After transferring 
the absorbing heat, heat pump can also act as an 
air conditioner. It is also the reason why the 
government actively encourages using these kinds 
of energy-conserving product.  
 
Heat pump system applied the inverse Kano 
enclosing principle to absorb thermal energy by 
the difference of cryogen and external in air. There 
are many processes to heat water, such as 
produces thermal energy by compressor and 
thermal exchange between cryogen and water. The 
heat pump has some following advantages 
including safety, energy-saving, environment 
protection, controllable warm keeping and lasting 
heating and large capacity [1-3]. 
 
2 Single Chip Based Heat Pump 
Controller 
The purpose of our control is to design a 
single-chip based controller to replace the 
traditional PLC based controller. The main reason 
is that the heat pump machine is more expensive 
than the other heater. In order to prevent the users’ 
wrong operations, causing the malfunction and 
damage of the heat pump, we designed a MCS-51 
single chip controller instead of PLC based 
controller. Generally speaking, a single chip based 
controller is cheaper and easier to operate than the 
PLC based one. Besides, we also install many 
sensors, such as phase reversal relay, anti-freezing 
switch, pressure switch, compressor overheating 
relay, thermal relay, shown in Figs. 2(a)-(e)., to 
detect the related states during the operation of 
heat pump. So, the heat pump can operate only 
when all the situations are confirmed to meet the 
safety requirements. We utilize the MCS-51 
controller to do the successive judgments. When 
all the parameters are verified normally, the heat 
pump compressor will run to move the thermal 
energy [4]. However, the heat pump system will 
shut off when the system is in the abnormal 
 3
water heater may conceal danger of electric 
leakage and imperfect grounding that will cause 
serious damage to users’ life. The character of the 
solar water heater determines the water 
temperature. The temperature may be very high to 
lead to scald in a sunny day, and vice versa. The 
auxiliary electric heater of overcast has the same 
problems as the electric water heater. Differing 
from the above water heaters, the thermal energy 
heater uses the discharging high-temperature gas 
of compressor to heat water in water bucket. The 
electricity is used in the compressor mainly and 
the gas after heating exchanges the calorific 
capacity with water in enamel water pitcher 
through the outside serpentine pipe. So, the 
sources of water and electricity are totally 
independent. In this way, there will not lead to the 
same problems of the other heaters, such as 
electric leakage, surface temperature too high of 
electric heating pipe, and the foul influences 
heating efficiency etc [10]. 
 
2.4 Warm-keeping ability 
The heap pump water heater keeps warm 
wholly through foam, which has good 
performance to keep warm. If we do not use it for 
a whole day indoor, the temperature of the water 
in the Heat pump only decreases 3oC to 5oC; under 
the same situation, the electric water heater will 
decreases 10oC to 20oC. Most of the traditional 
electric water heater has not the function of warm 
keeping, so the thermal energy of the hot water 
will be lost, causing a large amount of energy 
wasting. At the same time, the heap pump water 
heater can keep warm and heat continuously in a 
whole day, which avoid the loss the energy. 
Besides, the heat pump system not only provides 
the water for bath but also provides the other hot 
water for daily use. When compared with solar 
water heaters; the heat pump can provide several 
times of hot water, raising the efficiency.  
 
2.5 Environment protection character 
Instead of the gas, the proposed heat pump 
uses the cryogen R417A to protect the 
environment. The merits of the cryogen includes 
no pollution of the ozone layer, and the properties 
of energy-conservation, high-efficiency and 
replacement simply (it do not need change the 
compressor and inflation calve) etc., so it becomes 
an ideal substitution of R22. Cryogen R417A 
accounts for more than 80% of the market share 
on the Europe cryogen market presently. It has 
already extensively used to replace the cryogen 
such as in market, hotels and offices, etc. 
 
3 Results 
The heat pump controller based on MCS-51 
single chip is compact, cheaper, reliable and 
programmable. Furthermore, it integrates the 
relative sensors into detective work to prevent the 
users’ wrong operations, which may cause the 
malfunction and damage of the system. For the 
traditional system, when some sensor or sensors 
are out of order, the traditional designs of heart 
pump just know something wrong, but it can not 
judge which sensor or sensors are broken. 
Therefore, the maintenance engineers need to test 
all the sensors to confirm the broken sensor or 
sensors, and it is time consuming. 
 
For the controller based on the single chip, 
we label each sensor, such as phase reversal relay, 
anti-freezing switch, etc., with a specific number, 
respectively. There are two objectives. First, for 
the priority, e.g., the phase reversal relay, the most 
important sensor, has the highest priority, which 
detects the inlet three phase power is connected 
correctly or not. Second, for displaying the wrong 
sensor, the single chip based controller can show 
the error number on the LCD displayer, and 
locates the broken sensor or sensors. Therefore, 
for the maintenance engineers, it is more 
convenient to maintain the machine. 
 
The single chip based controller adopts the 
inherent timers/counters to replace the traditional 
mechanical delayed relay, therefore, it can reduce 
the number of the relative mechanical devices, 
make the system more compact, make the 
counting more exactly and is easy to program. The 
single chip based controller is the design of 
firmware based. In addition to the compact 
hardware, the capability of the software makes the 
system more flexible, programmable, and easy to 
be customized. During the operation of heat pump, 
the single chip based controller supervises the 
sensors all the time, and confirms whether the 
system is being in the safety situations or not. 
However, when the system is detecting an 
abnormal situation, the system will be shut off 
immediately to protect the system. At the same 
time, the LCD displayer reveals the error number, 
and it will facilitate the maintenance engineers to 
fix the system. 
 
With the inherent communication ability of 
the single chip, the controller can either work 
independently or it can communicate with the PC 
and other machines via some interfaces, e.g. 
RS-232. Therefore, it makes the design of the 
single chip based system to be more flexible, and 
expandable. Accordingly, we can establish a larger 
 5
 
 
Fig. 1(a): The heat pump system 
 
 
 
Fig. 1(b): Heat transfer theory 
 
 
 
Fig. 2(a): Phase reversal relay 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2(b): Anti-freezing switch 
 
 
 
Fig. 2(c): High/low pressure switch 
 
 
 
Fig. 2(d): Overheating relay 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                          96 年  7  月  2 日 附件三
 
報告人姓
名 
 
張政元 
 
服務機構
及職稱 
 
清雲科技大學 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2007/06/26~2007/06/29 
 
日本，京都 
本會核定
補助文號
95-2221-E-231-009 
會議 
名稱 
(中文) IEA/AIE 2007第 20屆工業，工程及其他智慧系統應用國際會議 
(英文) IEA/AIE 2007: The 20th International Conference on Industrial, 
Engineering & Other Applications of Applied Intelligent Systems 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文)加強型類神經濾波器設計及其在非線性噪音的主動控制應用 
 (英文) Enhanced Neural Filter Design and Its Application to the Active 
Control of Nonlinear Noise 
 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
 
本次會議舉行時間為 6/26~6/29，由於京都無國際機場，故本人提前
一天出發搭機至日本大阪關西國際機場再轉往京都。本人接受論文” 
Enhanced Neural Filter Design and Its Application to the Active Control of 
Nonlinear Noise”主要的目的為探討利用類神經濾波器設計配合加強型
設計來處理非線性噪音，以大幅簡化系統設計的複雜程度，並提供一個
適當電能量來送出反噪音信號，以抵消原有噪音信號。自獲得該大會接
受後，即積極籌備參予該項會議，並仔細推敲論文中的字句，以求盡善
盡美。論文發表之日會場人數頗多，發表完畢後多位教授提問，會後並
表 Y04 
