INTRODUCTION: 
Osteolysis induced by wear debris particles has been recognized as the major 
cause of long-term failure in total joint arthroplasties. A granulomatous response to 
polyethylene, polymethylmethacrylate or metal debris particles has been proved as the 
cause of osteolytic lesions 1-4. To investigate how wear debris influence fibrous tissue 
formation or bone resorption, animal models can be useful. There have been several 
in vivo studies in which wear particles were implanted into soft tissues, joint spaces, 
or intramedullary cavities. In this study, an ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene 
(UHMWPE) particles-induced osteolysis model was developed. UHMWPE particles 
used in this study were generated by rubbing UHMWPE with microfabricated 
surfaces. The particle was injected into rat knee joints. Radiography, 
histomorphologic changes and the acid phosphatase were analyzed.  
METHODS: 
Animals 
Twenty adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were used. Among them, twelve rats 
were designed for radiological examination and histological analysis, while 6 rats 
were sacrifice at 10 weeks and the other 6 rats were sacrifice at 12 weeks. The rest 8 
rats were performed the same experimental procedures and were harvested the 
synovial fluid in the knee joint for bone resorbing cytokines analysis. 
Surgical Process 
The 20 rats were anesthetized with with intraperitoneal ketamine at a dose of 80 
mg/kg and with xylazine at a dose of 5 mg/kg. In all rats, bilateral knee joints were 
exposed by the parapatellar approach and a 1.5-mm diameter intramedullary drill hole 
was made from the intercondylar notch using a 1.5-mm diameter stainless steel 
Kirschner (K) wire. Then, another K-wire (1 mm diameter and 1 cm in length) was 
placed into the drill hole in the femur. The incision was closed in layers with simple 
interrupted sutures of monofilament nylon.  
Preparation of particles 
UHMWPE particles used in this study were generated by rubbing UHMWPE 
with microfabricated surfaces. Unsterilized GUR415 UHMWPE pins of 6.35 mm in 
diameter and 25.4 mm in length were used in this study to produce wear particles. 
Texturing of the silicon wafer surface was achieved by micro-lithography patterning 
and etching of the bulk substrate. Particle-size distribution and morphology were 
determined by scanning electron microscopy (SEM, Hitachi S-3500 N, Tokyo, Japan). 
The particles are spherical and the mean diameter is 5 ± 1 µm (Distribution: 90% <10 
µm, Number: 6.86 × 107). Before injection, particles were washed in 100% ethanol 
for 48 hr at room temperature using a rocking device(Labinco L46, Wolf Laboratories 
Ltd., UK), and then dried at 37 °C. Afterward, particles were washed in phospate 
and in 5 out of 6 rats after 12 weeks. There was a difference between experimental and 
control groups at both times.  
Histological study 
(B) Membrane thickness 
In the experimental group, we observed synovial thickening and the 
proliferation of capsular connective tissue after weeks while the cartilage was free of 
damage. A fibrous membrane with infiltration by macrophages was seen between the 
trabecular bone and the K-wire in all specimens at in 4 out of 6 rats at 10 weeks and 6 
out of 6 rats at 12 weeks postoperatively. On the other hand, there was no membrane in 
all 6 rats from the control group at 10 and 12 weeks. The average thickness of the 
membrane around the K-wire was significantly less at 10 weeks compared with those 
at 12 weeks.  
(C) Tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) 
In the experimental group, numerous TRAP-positive multinucleated cells 
(MNC) (osteoclast-like cells) were observed near resorbed bone in the sections 
adjacent to those used for measurement of the membrane. The average number of 
TRAP-positive MNC around the K-wire was significantly fewer in the control group 
compared with the experimental group at both end points. 
DISCUSSION: 
An in-vivo osteolysis animal model has been established to investigate the biological 
responses induced by wear particles. By introducing the surface texturing techniques, 
UHMWPE particles with desired sizes and shapes can be prepared. Researchers can 
further apply this method to investigate the phagocytosis phenomena from various 
particle size, shape and material properties for animal model. In additional, The 
results of this research can further contribute to a systematic investigation of the 
effects of wear particle size and shape on the particles induced osteolysis. 
REFERENCES: 
1. Goodman S, Lidgren L: Polyethylene wear in knee arthroplasty-a review. Acta 
Orthop Scand 1992;63:358-364. 
2. Cadambi A, Engh GA, Dwyer KA, Vinh TN: Osteolysis of the distal femur after 
total knee arthroplasty. J Arthroplasty 1994;9:579-594. 
3. Kadoya Y, Kobayashi A, Ohashi H: Wear and osteolysis in total joint replacement. 
Acta Orthop Scand [Suppl] 1998;278:1-16. 
4. Kim YH, Oh JH, Oh SH: Osteolysis around cementless porous-coated anatomic 
knee prostheses. J Bone Joint Surg [Br] 1995;77: 236-241. 
計畫成果自評：  
本研究內容與成果與原計畫相符，同時也將所建立的骨溶蝕動物模式提供相關計
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                             95年 8月 16日 
報告人姓名 黃俊雄 服務機構 
及職稱 
馬偕紀念醫院 
院長 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
96年 4 月 6 日 至 96 年 4
月 8 日 
中國上海 
本會核定 
補助文號 
 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 2007世界骨科外傷醫學會上海會議 
 (英文) SICOT—SIROT Shanghai 2007 Congress 
發表 
論文 
題目 
(中文) 人工膝關節超高分子量聚乙稀脛骨襯墊之磨耗分析—可動式與固定式膝
關節元件之比較 
(英文) Wear Analysis of Polyethylene Bearing Inserts from Total Knee Arthroplasty –
A Comparison of Mobile-Bearing and Fixed-Bearing Knees 
 e
附件三
 
表 Y04 
