II
II
中文摘要
自從 2002 年美國 Wal-Mart 開始強力推廣 RFID 技術，分別於 2005 及 2006 年要求全球
前一百大與接著的三百大供應商必須貼上 RFID，在 2007 年更進一步要求另三百家供應商
使用 RFID。台灣的廠商大部分不瞭解 RFID 是怎樣的技術，但迫於無奈只能採取
「Slap-and-Ship」的配合策略，以便能夠持續獲得訂單。國內政府直到 2006 年才推動 RFID
公領域計畫，開始培育國內種子廠商來仿效國外推動 RFID 所能帶來之獲利。因此 RFID 成
為目前最為關鍵的技術指標，在未來的十年內必定成為影響全球經濟的主要科技。美國
Frost & Sullivan 發展顧問公司預測 2009 年全球 RFID 產值將達 60 億美金。然而對於 RFID
軟體產業來說，因為 RFID 硬體尚處於未成熟階段，加上國內軟體產業未蓬勃發展，導致現
在仍是處於一片渾沌不明的階段。以國內系統整合的實力，整個 RFID 價值鍊上最為欠缺的
就是中介軟體的部分。
本研究計畫主要是要發展中介軟體以測試目前 RFID 標籤與讀寫器的物理性能與極
限。進而提出改善演算法以協助 RFID 能夠有更好的表現。此中介軟體以階層式模組化的設
計方式，對下整合 RS232、TCP/IP 與 PCMCIA 通訊介面，並且將標籤訊息轉換成 XML 呈現方
式，對上提供統一的使用介面。接著再以此為基礎與物流系統整合，這包含 RFID 讀寫器
GPRS 模組之結合與後端伺服器系統之建置與整合。另外，為了快速協助國內產業導入 RFID
技術，我們主張應該另外衍生出 RFID 標籤製作與轉換的新產業，將購置 RFID 設備的成本
與風險集中到固定的產業。這裡我們將提出 B2R(Barcode to RFID)的第三者角色，由雙方
所信任的 B2R 中立機構擔任轉譯角色，減低商業資訊外曝的疑慮
藉由此項計畫，我們將會同時具有 RFID 產業整合能力與學術研討能力。藉由我們所改
良的硬體設備與自行研發之中介軟體，更進一步進行我們所闡述的 RFID 應用，與交通大學
各院所進行 RFID 相關研究。
關鍵詞：條碼、條碼編號、中介軟體、RFID 標籤、RFID 讀寫器
IV
IV
目 錄
中文摘要 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . II
英文摘要 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . III
一、前言 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
二、研究目的. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
三、文獻探討. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
四、研究方法. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
五、結果與討論. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
六、成果自評. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Paper: study on secured RFID system using PKI and Web services . . . . . 11
Paper: Study on RFID Anti-Blocker Tag . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
附件、 CPATH 研討會出國心得報告 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
66
示。
類別 描述
Class0 Passive, read-only
Class1 Passive, write-once
Class2 Passive, read-write
Class3 Semi-passive with
battery, read-write
Class4 Semi-passive or active
表格 1 RFID 標籤類型
目前被業者廣泛使用的是class1的“Gener
ation 2” ，簡稱Class 1 Gen2，它為了解
決一些class0與class1上有關重寫性、安
全、隱私與穩定性上的加強。目前Generat
ion2主要是修正class1的缺點，未來會逐漸
擴充到更高層級的標籤。
我們提出此研究計畫以尋求扮演 RFID
researcher 的角色，以深厚的研究基礎進
行 RFID Security、Privacy、Efficiency
與 Connectivity 的學術研究（RFID SPEC
research）。憑藉著無線隨意網路（Wireless
Ad Hoc Network）的基礎，進行 RFID 感測
網路（sensor network）與智慧塵（Smart
Dust）的相關研究。
在 RFID SPEC 中介軟體那層，我們提倡
使用 XML 自訂標籤的方式來轉換各企業所
需的 RFID 標籤內容。Auto-ID 中心已經有
採用基於 XML 的 Physical Markup Language
來描述產品資料。針對於此，我們將擴大
XML 與 Web Service 的結合，藉由 Web
Service 所 提 供 的 UDDI （ Universal
Description, Discovery and Integration
protocol）來提供全球 RFID 標籤格式資訊
的註冊與查詢。藉由 Web Service 所高度強
調的跨平台性，我們的中介軟體將能夠提供
各式標籤格式的自動查詢與轉換，其中包含
即將取代 Barcode 的 EPC code。藉由 UDDI
的服務，我們的中介軟體可以快速搜尋某項
產品的出產國、產品別與產品編號，提供產
品來源追蹤、產品保存期限與仿造品的防制
與保護。而高單價的產品也會因 UDDI 的優
點，達到全球同步防偽、防竊的消極性保衛
功能。
三、文獻探討
傳統的門禁系統只能替資訊產業提供
Identity-based access control，也就是
根據人的身份來控管是否可以進入房間存
取資訊。假如惡意的訪客突破門禁系統，那
麼門禁系統再也無法保護內存資訊。這樣的
保護是 “有或無” 方式的保護。透過RFID
技術，以及入侵防護系統，我們將能提供
“隨時” 並且 “即時” 的防護，一旦使
用人員離開讀取器的感測範圍，此安全系統
便自動鎖定操作。在本章內，我們先介紹使
用 RFID 時，系統的軟硬體架構為何，以及
各種 RFID 硬體的分類方式。接著，我們介
紹目前採用 RFID 時所會面臨的安全以及隱
私上的議題，以及目前大部分所採用的解決
方案。我們將會介紹我們所開發的入侵防護
系統，透過狀態轉換的方式，我們可以輕易
描述每一個程序（Process）所能執行的動
作，並且在作業系統核心內追蹤每一個程序
的行為，以便達到即時入侵防護的目的。
RFID 主要是將資訊儲存在標籤內的記
憶體，透過 RF 訊號傳遞到讀寫器，並回報
到後端系統。然而與之前的條碼系統最大的
差異是，RFID 標籤以無線的方式將資訊回
報給讀寫器，而讀寫器會將蒐集到的標籤資
訊透過不同的介面回傳給後端使用者。讀寫
器的資訊不再像條碼機一樣，只透過鍵盤輸
入介面傳入系統內。因此採用 RFID 硬體
時，必須有一套中介軟體，負責間接多樣化
的 RFID 硬體設備，以及不同的資料回報方
式。如錯誤! 找不到參照來源。所示，整個
RFID 系統架構內，除了既有的應用系統外，
還包含三個主要成員，分別是標籤、讀寫器
與中介軟體。
RFID 標籤的角色與傳統式條碼類似，
88
題外，我們認為中介軟體應該是用來補足簡
易型（dumb）RFID 讀取器的不足。目前有
關於中介軟體的標準制訂上，有 EPCglobal
的 ONS(Object Name Service) 與
PML(Physical Markup Language) ，配合
EPC-64 與 EPC-96 的編碼轉換標準來解決
barcode 系統的燃眉之急，如錯誤! 找不到
參照來源。所示。ONS 所扮演的角色就是一
個條碼註冊中心，負責紀錄各企業提供商品
條碼資訊的伺服器位置。當使用者需要知道
某項商品的資訊時，只要透過 ONS 得知提供
服務的伺服器位置，再使用 PML 與該伺服器
溝通，取得標籤 ID 所代表的商品細節資訊。
四、研究方法
為了能夠成功與物流系統間接，中介
軟體最終應該要實做 EPCglobal 所制訂的
RFID 物流標準。在 EPCglobal 所制訂的網
路資訊交換環境下，所有的標籤資訊皆能夠
透過網路，將其 ID 轉換成更富裕的商品細
節資訊。
在此架構之下，我們希望發展出同時能
夠與 EPCglobal 相容的中介軟體，並且能夠
快速導入企業的其他需求。其中最重要的便
是標籤資訊的安全性，以及與 EPCglobal 背
道而馳的非公開性標籤運作。
為了充分解決 RFID 導入相關議題，我們將
此計畫劃分為三階段，分別有不同的計畫目
標與進行方式：
第一年：RFID 中介軟體與 3G、GPS、EPC
Network 之研發
此部分致力於 RFID 中介軟體核心層之
研究與開發。目前大部分的 RFID 先導型計
畫大部分使用直接程式撰寫的方式來間接
硬體。雖然開發方式很直接，但是一旦更換
硬體設備後，專案的結果很可能因為硬體規
格不同而難以傳承，需要某些程度的修改。
因此，我們將採用 Java Reflection 或者是
Java Assist 等 Dynamic Java Programming
的機制來設計中介軟體，使得整個中介軟體
的架構符合容易擴充與使用的規範，而不是
單純的間接模組而已。在這樣的架構之下，
我們將符合 EPC Middleware 的規範，將各
個中介軟體的功能模組化，並且提供可擴充
並且符合標準的介面（Interface），以便中
介軟體能夠擴充下去。
在 Dynamic Java Architecture 的環境
下，我們將制訂出各種擴充模組的應用程式
核心介面（RFID Middleware Core API），
並且在此介面之下整合 3G、GPS 等功能，以
便物流系統能夠快速整合。
最後，此年度將研發 EPC Network 內的 ONS
與 EPC Information Service 模組，並且設
立一個 EPC ONS 註冊機構，提供各種物流以
及學術應用的網際網路物流查詢系統。
第二年：RFID 安全與隱私權改進技術
此年度研究宗旨在以不更動標籤電路設計
的前提下，提供安全、隱密與防偽之保護。
以現有成熟的軟體安全技術，將防衛的工作
由標籤或讀寫器轉移到後端資訊處理系
統。這樣可以讓標籤運作電量降低，不僅可
提高讀取範圍，更可讓標籤成本下降，讓五
美分(5Cent US Dollar)標籤的理想早日達
成。除此之外，研究重點還包含標籤內容的
隱私性，以及標籤防烤技術，以因應各式的
RFID 應用。
除此之外，我們將提出解決 Blocker
Tag 惡意使用下的解決方案。在讀取器範圍
內出現阻絕標籤時，中介軟體將能夠有效偵
測並且提示警示訊息給管理者或者是使用
人員，以避免商業行為上的金額損失。
標籤資訊的保護行為上，我們提出兩種架
構：第一，整合既有穩定成熟的系統安全技
術來保護標籤資訊（如錯誤! 找不到參照來
源。所示）。第二，則是透過簡易的軟體加
解密方式來保護標籤資訊。
第三年：存取控制與工作轉移代理人技術研
10
10
ROC-USA Business Conference and The Modern
Engineering & Technology Seminar, 2004.
[7] James A. Mravca, Larry Nan-lei Wang, Barry
Jia-fu Lin, “A compact RFID reader engine
for UHF and Microwave reader
applications,” in the 2004 Biennial
ROC-USA Business Conference and The Modern
Engineering & Technology Seminar, 2004,
pp.137.
[8] Lionel M. Ni, Yunhao Liu, Yiu Cho Lau,
Abhishek P. Patil, “LANDMARK: Indoor
Location Sensing Using Active RFID,”in
the IEEE International Conference on
Pervasive Computing and Communictions,
2003.
[9] Shoumen Datta, “Real-Time Data vs.
Right-Time Information in Decision
Systems,” in the International Conference
on RFID Application and Global Logistics,
2004.
[10] Shyue-Bin Chang, Michael Wu, Sean Hsuei,
Henry Jan, “RFID Technology and
Applications Development Program in
Taiwan,”in the 2004 Biennial ROC-USA
Business Conference and The Modern
Engineering & Technology Seminar, 2004,
pp.123.
[11] Susy d’Hont, “The Cutting Edge of RFID
Technology and Applications for
Manufacturing and
Distribution,”technical report of Texas
Instrument TIRIS.
[12] Yamato Miyahara, “RFID Application System
in Japan – Japanese Experience and Case
Study,”in the International Conference on
RFID Application and Global Logistics,
2004.
[13] Yi-Chi Shih, “Miniature RFID Antenna
using Metamaterials,” in the 2004
Biennial ROC-USA Business Conference and
The Modern Engineering & Technology
Seminar, 2004, pp.132.
[14] 日經 BP RFID 技術編輯部編輯, 周湘琪譯,
“RFID 技術與應用,”旗標出版股份有限公
司,2004
[15] Steven Shepard, “RFID–Radio Frequency
Identification”, McGraw-Hill, 2004
12
12
with the RFID, automation and Web Service
technologies, the integrated system would bring
extraordinary convenience to both our life and
work. However, it may also provide
opportunities for invasions if security concerns
are not handled with care. For example, we
might be tracked several times during short
period of time in the happing shopping journey.
We may also make a wrong decision in choosing
goods with forged EPC information. Therefore,
the security and privacy concerns are more
important, and any single security compromise
may cause the whole system collapsed easily.
In this paper, we first discuss common RFID
system architecture and general security factors
that make system secure. We also analyze the
security requirements of each RFID components
and communication links along the value chain
of RFID. We suggest different security
mechanism for each critical point according to
computation capability and characteristics.
Moreover, we provide detail discussion on
several possible attacks on the RFID system,
especially the EPCglobal Architecture
Framework. In this framework, it uses popular
Class-1 Generation-2 RFID tag as low-cost and
high-performance identification mechanism. It
also works out a series of software standards
based on Web-Service concept to provide
information sharing and interoperability among
diversity of industries. Finally, we propose and
design a PKI-based prototype system that solves
authentication and integrity problems. In this
system, we build up three web services to
represent the ALE, EPCIS and ONS services
respectively. Each component obtains X.509
certificate from CA server and do mutual
authentication as defined in PKI. This prototype
system also utilizes digital signature to provide
information integrity. This is especially
important in medical related RFID applications
that any counterfeit data may cause serious
consequence. For example, RFID is largely used
as patient and medical instrument identification
in Taiwan [4][18]. A possible compromised tag
or system issue may cause the need of double
confirmation SOP, which violates the purpose of
using RFID to reduce human error and bring
efficiency. The prototype system demonstrates
that the PKI mechanism is very suitable and
indispensible to provide security protection for
web service applications, also the RFID-enabled
services.
II. CHARACTERISTICS OF RFID AND
SECURITY
A. RFID System Architecture
A typical RFID system is consisted of
four basic elements: the tag, reader,
middleware and application system. As
shown in Figure 1, it forms a three-or-four
data links for the RFID application to
receive tag’s information: the T2R (tag
to reader), the R2M (reader to
middleware), the M2S (middleware to
service) and S2S (service to service).
Figure 1. Common RFID System Architecture
14
14
implemented as the SAM or HSM
module. Sometimes, we need mutual
authentication scheme in
anti-counterfeiting applications that the
tag’s identity is also very important.
Although the UID in ISO-15693/14443
and TID (version 1.2.0) in C1G2
protocols can be used to solve clone
problem, it is theoretically unsafe that
any Tag IC manufacturer can produce
exactly the same tags with list of
attacking UID/TID.
The Integrity of RFID can be separated
as “thenand now”or “here and there”
that data should be consistent between
those conditions. The CRC of storage or
communication data is quite common in
RFID. For example, there are 32-bit
CRC in EPC bank of C1G2 tag；Mifare
allow user to claim its internal sector as
Value-sector that it has built-in
correction circuit if the data is not in
numeric format；The air interface or
communication protocols also contain
CRC calculation in packet to ensure data
integrity. Another important issue of
data integrity is the non-repudiation. We
have to make sure that each component
can not deny spoken statements. To
satisfy this security feature, it takes
much more efforts that it is applied in
higher layer of RFID System, such as
M2S or S2S communication links. The
digital signature is often used to solve
this issue but required more resource
and hence raises the complexity of
whole system.
In the following table, we list common
As-Is scenarios. We also especially
marshal both the C1G2 and Mifare,
which are prevailing in RFID market.
Table 1. Data links vs. Security factors
confidentiality authentication Integrity
T2R
C1G2: none
Mifare: Crypto.
C1G2: Reserved
bank, lock.
Mifare: KeyA/B,
ACC and SAM
C1G2: CRC in EPC
bank
Mifare: Value-block
R2M
C1G2: some SSL
Mifare: Crypto.
C1G2: ID/Passwd
Mifare: ID/Passwd
Data packet CRC.
No Digital
Signature
M2S
SSL/Proprietary Proprietary Data packet CRC.
No Digital
Signature
S2S
SSL/Proprietary Proprietary Data packet CRC.
No Digital
Signature
C. Computation Capability and Security
Characteristics of RFID components
Although we have many security
mechanisms, not all RFID system
components are capable to be applied
with those features discussed above.
The RFID tag is the most interesting
one. We may well put as many security
features as we want into the tag circuit
design to provide more security
protection. However, it turns to be
almost impossible to let this dream come
true because of the endless war of 5-cent
or 5-yen battle. As discussed in [11][27],
the expected market price of RFID tag
obstructs the way to obtain more
security. Besides, more security means
more circuits, which need more power to
16
16
banks. Any system that uses 96-bit EPC
as unique ID would be suffered from the
possible cloning attack. As the drawback
of barcode system, attackers can scan in
the first time and reproduce exactly the
same barcode/EPC to equivocate as
regular ones. In addition, attackers can
make up malicious tags that strike
grocery system seriously. For example,
we can easily produce EPC labels that
represent low-priced products and apply
them on much more expensive but
resemble objects, such as wine or 3C
products that you can not easily
distinguish them at the first sight.
Unfortunately, we can only give a
palliative solution via TID or access
password before the next generation of
EPC tags, that is, the class-2 tags.
With more effort, the attacker can
paralysis accounting desk by using
blocker tag, which was originally
proposed by RSA lab to solve the
privacy problem [13]. The blocker tag is
actually a tag but does not comply with
anti-collision rules. In this way,
consumers can put all tagged objects
near the blocker tag, and accordingly, all
or part of the normal tags could be
hidden. However, it would be hard to
detect or defend “bad blocker tag”,
because they can selectively hinder
certain tags but not all of them. It makes
users cannot recognize the low reading
rate is actually caused by blockers or
just another interference problems. The
most important of all is the penalty of
any existence of the blocker tag used in
evil side. It may cause financial lost,
information lost, and it is
time-consuming to find out the blocker
tag by the only way of filtering one by
one. Therefore, the RFID long range and
mass-reading device, such as EPC
readers would be suffered from more
threats of malicious tags than other short
range technologies.
B. Compromised or Malicious RFID Reader
Modern EPC fix readers are mostly
embedded system and provide network
connection capability. To configure
reader behaviors or upgrade firmware,
the readers usually provide embedded
web system that accepts configuration
request and perform parameters setup
via CGI. Some may provide FTP or even
TFTP to replace programs directly. We
also have some experience that user can
login to the embedded Linux console of
reader via SSH with easy-to-guess
password, not to mention there is some
reader system that do not have access
control mechanism. In this way,
attackers have many alternatives to
make good use of this fact. They can
install a backdoor program and then take
their time dealing with something bad.
They can even modify the bootloader to
hijack/replace/tap original kernel image.
In addition, most network style readers
can be controlled by issuing correct
command packets. The command format
and magic numbers are public
information that everyone can write a
program to probe and manipulate
readers. Therefore, it is necessary to
18
18
much the same as “recursive DNS
server”that it has to finish the query
with either right answer or domain
server failed answer. To improve the
query performance, the EPCIS server
can use positive temporary cache to save
recursive time waiting for other EPCIS’s
response. However, the positive cache
won’t help too much since the nature of
uniqueness of EPC. If every queried
product is sold after they are being
looking up, it is almost impossible to be
scanned again in the same kiosk. To
paralyze the throughput of EPCIS
servers, attackers can request lots of
EPCIS queries to keep server busy but
finally in vain. To deal with such attacks,
the attackers can create lots of EPC tags
that have not being attached to physical
objects. The EPCIS server would get
“EPC not found” eventually.
Unfortunately, it is very easy to guest
and create non-exist tags, either
un-registered EPC manager code, or
un-used serial numbers in certain EPC
code space. To defend such threats, the
EPCIS server can build up a first line
filtering of unacceptable EPC code. The
manufacturer side could limit the service
range within its own EPC code space.
However, the retailer side would be
much more difficult and the negative
cache would be full or replaced quickly.
The same issue is going to be
happened in ONS. There is work
discusses security threats of ONS [3].
The ONS system use NAPTR record to
map between the EPC code and service
URI, and the manufacture can register
its own EPCIS service URI for each type
of products. As most DNS servers, the
ONS server would also be affected by
DoS attacks, especially the negative
query that either EPC manager code or
item reference is forged. Contrarily, we
can also use ONS to collect list of
registered item references, and in turn,
use this list to obtain all product
information which originally is kept in
backend EPR. Although that information
is public to end-user, however,
systematical collection and analysis
would cause privacy issue of publisher.
Table 3. Summary of immediate security issues of EPC
network
Security threats Possible Solution
Malicious tag but wrong target Authorized access to ID
Blocker tags Detection mechanism in
reader
Compromised Readers
Close TFTP, FTP, SSH.
Authorized HTTP
accessibility
Restricted intranet
accessibility
Unlimited network protocols Token-based
authentication
In-channel/out-channel
interference
Government regulation
Middleware counterfeit event Authentication to event
sender
Middleware modified event -
DoS to EPCIS server
Positive or negative cache
Client Authentication
20
20
certain certificate except the right
person.
Combined with those materials
discussed above, we can utilize PKI to
provide different kind of security
protections. The first one is the
authentication. User can prove his/her
identity by encrypting a challenge code
issued by system with his/her private
key. System then verifies with
corresponding private key (which is part
of the user’s certificate). Since the
private key is kept secretly and no one
knows it excepts the owner, the system
thus could authenticate user’s identity
accordingly.
The confidentiality can be achieved by
either asymmetric or symmetric
encryptions. Most systems would use
symmetric algorithms since it is much
more efficient. However, it needs to
maintain a session key exchange and
update scheme that makes the whole
system a little bit complicated. The
system can also use the asymmetric
algorithms (such as RSA) that sender
has to encrypt the message with
receiver’s public-key and receiver
decrypts with its own private-key. It
seems that the asymmetric relieve the
burden of session key management, but
it is inefficient since asymmetric
algorithm may take 10 times
computation resource than symmetric
one to achieve equal confidentiality
degree. Therefore, it is better to use DES
or AES encryption algorithms for RFID
Middleware to provide data privacy. As
suggested in XML
encryption/decryption, the XML-based
RFID services can encrypt and decrypt
part of the XML tags of communication
data that need secret protection. For
example, system can encrypt EPC only
and left others clear for saving
processing time.
The next one is the integrity. To
guarantee the content is not modified by
man-in-the-middle attack, sender can
sign the communication message for
verification purpose. The original
message would be hashed first (either
using MD5 or SHA-1 algorithm) and
then the digest would be encrypted by
the private-key of sender. Once the
receiver got the signature, it would use
the sender’s certificate to retrieve
corresponding public-key and decrypt
the signature to verify the message. In
this way, receiver can affirm whether the
message has been modified. On the
other hand, the sender cannot deny the
factor of sending such message by the
nature of asymmetric cryptography.
In this paper, we use OpenCA
(http://www.openca.org/) which is an
open source implementation of PKI
from PKI/Security Labs. The OpenCA
implements most roles defined in PKI,
including CA, RA, and OCSP (Online
Certificate Status Protocol) daemon that
enables applications for Online
revocation status checking of X.509
certificates. The OpenCA also provides
Web-based GUI that user can apply and
manage certificates through web pages.
22
22
certificate. It can also obtain other’s
certificate from CA when needed. In this
model, web services would do mutual
authentication in the first time before
communication. After being authorized,
the communication content would be
secured by XML encryption and
decryption. It can also be protected by
digital signature, such that any important
RFID operation could be audited.
Figure 5. To-Be model of proposed prototype RFID system
In authentication step, both
communication endpoints would verify
each other’s identity and exchange a
session key for the following
communication period. We choose a
time-based expiration management of
authentication token. Once the token has
expired, both endpoints have to restart
the authentication procedure to obtain a
new token and session key.
C. System Architecture and Design
As shown in Figure 6, the whole
architecture is based on web service and
PKI infrastructure. Each component
provides different kind of services which
are implemented as XML over HTTP of
SOAP. In the following paragraph, we
discuss the functionality of each agent,
including representative functionality of
that EPC role and, of course, the security
related ones.
Figure 6. System Architecture
The client side web page. It is a simple web
page that simulates the user interface of RFID
applications. No matter how diverse the RFID
applications are, they would need an EPC code
to start the traceability procedure. Therefore, we
design a query web page that can enter either
SGTIN-96 or HEX formats of desired 96-bit
EPC code. The web system would then invoke
the QueryProfile() service of RFIDAgent to
fulfill this EPCIS request.
Figure 7. The client side web page (left) and functionality of
RFIDAgent
24
24
links. Any of these eight critical points is
compromised would let the whole
system cannot be trusted any more. This
result inspired us to integrate PKI
mechanism into EPC network for better
security protection.
In next part of this paper, we design a
flexible architecture that every web
service related to RFID could provide
secured and authorized communication
scheme based on this work. The
flexibility is the main spirit of this paper,
because there would be lots of
innovative RFID Web services in future.
The loosely coupling architecture makes
it easy to duplicate and extend in future.
B. Extensibility to existing EPCglobal or
Networked RFID System
In this paper, all components are
designed as web services such that
extensibility to existing EPCglobal or
networked RFID system is fine. All
system is designed in SOAP, which is
the prevalence Web Service protocol.
C. Future Works
We plan to migrate this work to real
work of EPCglobal components,
including ALE, EPCIS and ONS, etc.
We are also going to introduce PKI to
the smart RFID reader. When the RFID
reader is equipped with private key and
certificate, communication between
reader and ALE would be more secure
and private.
REFERENCES
[1] J. G. Alfaro, M. Barbeau, E. Kranakis, “Analysis of
Threats to the Security of EPC Networks,”
Communication Networks and Services Research
Conference (CNSR ’08), 2008.
[2] S. Bono, M. Green, A. Stubblefield, A. Juels, A. Rubin,
and M. Szydlo, “Security analysis of a 
cryptographically-enabled RFID device,” Proceedings
of 14th USENIX Security Symposium, pp.1-16, 2005.
[3] B. Fabian, S. Spiekermann, “Security Analysis of the
Object Name Service (ONS) for RFID,”International
Workshop on Security, Privacy and Trust in Pervasive
and Ubiquitous Computing (SecPerU’05), 2005.
[4] Kuo-Huie Chiang, Kenny Huang, “An Investigation of
Business Process Management on the application of
RFID on the case of Medical Blood Pack Handling,”
International Journal of Electronic Business
Management, Vol.6, No.3, pp.174-183, 2008.
[5] Dae-Jin Chin, Myung-Hwan Rim, “IT839 Strategy: the
Korean challenge toward a ubiquitous world,”IEEE
Commun. Mag., vol.44, pp.32-38, 2006.
[6] EPCglobal, “The EPCglobal Architecture Framework,”
version 1.2, 2007.
[7] EPCglobal, “EPC Radio-Frequency Identity Protocols
Class-1 Generation-2 UHF RFID Protocol for
Communication at 860MHz–960MHz,”version 1.2.0,
2008.
[8] Peter Friess, “European Perspective on RFID,”RFID
Academic Convocation, Boston, 2006.
[9] He Lei, Gan Yong, Li Na-Na, “An Improved HB++
Protocol Against Man-in-the-middle Attack in RFID
System,” International Conference on Wireless
Communications, Networking and Mobile Computing
(WiCom ’08), pp.1-4, 2008.
[10] A. Honzawa, Y. Kobayashi, S. Fukushima, T. Yamazoe,
“The Achievement of Hibiki Project—For the Spread
Use of RFID--,”Proceedings of the 2007 International
Symposium on Applications and the Internet Workshops,
2007.
[11] A. Juels, “RFID security and privacy: A research
survey,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in
Communication, 2006.
26
26
Study on RFID Anti-Blocker Tag
Wen Chen, Tsung-Yi Tsai , Chia-Ming Sung, Wen-Nung Tsai
Department of Computer Science,
National Chiao-Tung University
{chenpc, tytsai, chiaming, tsaiwn}@cs.nctu.edu.tw
Abstract*
Abstract—Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) technology is widely accepted
for modern application; however, the RFID system has some privacy and security
problems.[13] Although there are many research on wireless network related to the
privacy and security problems, we can not always apply them to the RFID system,
because most of them have high-cost hardware implementation and some are
inconvenient to customers.
Blocker tag is a solution for privacy protection. It is base on the anti-collision
algorithm of Radio Frequency Identification technology. This shall be an efficient
method to protect user privacy. Yet, if this method is used in malicious way, the
inventory of the RFID reader would be stopped, and people may carry something out
without paying. This could be a serious problem on RFID application for world-wide
usage. This is the main problem we want to solve..
Keywords: anti-collision, blocker tag, , Middleware, RFID , RFID Reader, privacy
1. Introduction
n RFID tag consists of a small circuit with a small
antennae. It transmits a unique serial number for a distanceof several meters.
The reader replys to the tag with response query. Through this query, the reader will
know its product ID to keep inventory or accounting.Low-cost tag can be read and
updated information without physical contact. Therefore, the RFID system has
become popular in modern application.[2, 10] The privacy issue is important in real
world usage of RFID. For example, in a dark coner, a robber may use RFID reader to
scan the RFID tag on your body to identity your sex. In another case, your records of
illness will reveal in the same way by scanning your gallipot. How to hide your RFID
tag to protect your privacy is a serious problem.
Because of the low-cost implement, a malicious user is easy to get your privacy
information from your packet. Base on this problem, there are many article and
research discussing over the privacy issue. They both intend to solve privacy problem
and keep the convenience of the tag for usage.
According to the chip we have, it is a challenge to protect privacy. Since
* This work was supported in part by National Science Council, Contract No.
NSC95-2221-E-009-133-MY3.
A
28
28
2.2 Hash-Lock
Hash-lock[14,15] is an approach with additional hardware require. A tag may hide
its own ID until it is "unlocked." The tag sends its meta ID insted of product ID. A
meta ID is a hash value of the product ID. The reader looks up the meta ID in
back-end database for its product ID. When a tag receive its real product ID, it reply
its product ID to the reader.
Figure 1. Hash-lock scheme with back-end database
2.3 Physical Protect
Physical protect[1, 3] uses metal mesh to prevent tag from be queried. Because of
mask effect, the reader query command can be masked.
For example, thieves are already known to use this metal mesh to circumvent
shoplifting detection.
2.4 Protocol Protect
DDoS attack is a traditional method in protocol attack. Blocker tag is a kind of
attack in DDOS way. By attacking the reader on the protocol, the blocker tag prevents
the tag from being read. When reader query for inventory by RFID Gen 1, a blocker
tag emits both '0' and '1'.
On the tree traversal, the reader will find a complete tree. It takes time and gets a
useless inventory list. In RFID Gen 2. A blocker tag occupy the entire time slot while
inventory. Then no tag can be inventoried because of collision.do.
30
30
A soft blocker tag can only block a subset of ID prefix, not all of the tree
traversal. This is an easy way to protect our privacy without additional hardware. But
if people uses the tag in the malicious way, they can circumvent shoplifting detection.
In this case, someone can steal something from the store without checking. This
must be the most serious issue on RFID accounting.
Figure 3 Tree-base walking of RFID Gen 1 Protocol
3.2 Blocker Tag in RFID Gen 2
Blocker tag in RFID Gen 2 has many differences from Gen 1. By using the
slotted-ALOHA algorithm[16, 2, 7] the blocker tag can not use product ID in
anti-collision. RFID Gen 2 uses random time slots to avoid collision, so that we can
change our idea to attack the time slot algorithm. In RFID Gen 2, the reader
broadcasts query command to all tag with parameter $Q$.
If a tag gets the command and is in ready status, the tag will wait for a random time T.
T is a random number in the range 1–2Q. While the reader detects the exist of
collision, the reader will increase $Q$ to lower the collision rate. We call this
algorithm the Q algorithm.
32
32
number exceeds the maximum threshold. We can claim that there is an existing of
blocker tag.
3.5 Anti-blocker tag in RFID Gen 2
The sentinel scheme can not be applied on in RFID Gen 2, because the
anti-collision algorithm in RFID Gen 2 does not use product ID to separate them all.
We can detect the existance of a blocker tag by the probability scheme. If there is a
blocker tag,there is high collision rate.
The main idea of our approach is detecting the abnormal high collision rate. Once a
blocker tag exists, it will be useless to increase Q while querying. Choosing a
threshold between Q and collision rate can detect the abnormal situation.
This scheme will always work all the time. The problem is what threshold we
shall choose and how to speed up the detection of the blocker tag. In another way, we
can still carry on the sentinel scheme with a little modification. RFID Gen 2 uses the
slotted-ALOHA algorithm to inventory. Although the algorithm does not use product
ID to browse all tags, we can specify a particular product ID by select command.
For example, we can use select command to select a certain product ID. Then we
do a query through what we select, and we will get an expected response. If we are
sure that is a mute tag and we get an echo, then there must be a blocker tag.
4. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
Obviously, we can detect a blocker is existance in a range of zone. In RFID Gen
1,
we can ignore full blocker tag. But we cannot ignore the soft-blocker tag. Because
we don't know the certain portion which the soft-blocker tag protects. We cannot just
ignore the blocker tag or bypass its response in RFID Gen 2 either. In some situation,
people uses blocker tags to protect something while accounting. We can detect this
action, and then ask the customer to remove the blocker tag or check his bag. In this
way, people can use blocker to protect their item in hand. People must remove their
blocker tag while accounting, or we can detect it and ask to check.
The future work is to find a suitable threshold for different cases. Different
thresholds are needed by different tag numbers. It is clear to detect the blocker
existance in 1024 time slots with 100% collision rate and only ten tag existing.
Maximizing the threshold will improve false alarm rate. On the other hand,
maximizing the threshold harms the detection speed.
In RFID Gen 2 system, based on the same false alarm rate,we can add sentinel to
34
34
[13] R. Want. An introduction to rfid technology. . IEEE Pervasive Computing, vol. 5:
p.25-33, Jan.-Mar. 2006.
[14] S. A. Weis, S. Sarma, R. Rivest, and D. Engels. Security and privacy aspects of
low-cost radio frequency identification systems. Security and privacy aspects of
low-cost radio frequency identification systems, 2003.
[15] S.A. Weis., Radio-frequency identification security and privacy. Master’s thesis, 
M.I.T, June 2003.
[16] Stephen A. Weis. Security and privacy in radiofrequency identification devices.
Masters  esis. MIT, May 2003
[17] C.A. Thompson, “Radio frequency tags for identifying legitimate drug products
discussed by tech industry,”American Journal of Health-System Pharmacy, vol.
16, no. 14, 2004, pp. 1430-1431.
[18] Shang-Wei Wang, Wun-Hwa Chen, Chorng-Shyong Ong, Li Liu, Yun-Wen
Chuang, “RFID applications in hospitals: a case study on a demonstration RFID
project in Taiwan hospital,”Proceedings of the 39th Hawaii International
Conference on System Sciences, 2006.
36
36
報到(5/15)
因為日本對 H1N1 特別囉嗦，飛機有點延誤上，使得原本買的轉機沒搭上，
因為我買的機票是不能改點，只好另外花了美金一百多元買新機票從洛杉磯機場
轉機直飛 Portland 機場，本來應該週五中午要報到的卻延誤到晚上才報到。這時
大家已經吃完晚餐正在聽 Google 公司一位部門經理Maggie Johnson 演講;週五
下午的節目只有資訊業者的報告與專題演講，還好有趕上目前美國股王 Google
公司的演講。
過境日本時大部份旅客都帶口罩 在美國 LA 轉機時卻沒人帶口罩
報到地點在 Portland university 附屬的飯店 Portland University Place
報到之後趕緊找到演講廳，演講者是 Google 公司一位部門經理 Maggie
Johnson，可能因為是業界的大家都聚精會神聽講，還不時有滿場笑聲與掌聲。
由大家臉上表情可知演講很精彩
38
38
分組討論(5/16)與綜合報告 (5/17)
週六的會議分成六組，有兩組是整天的，同一時間有四組同時進行，各組有
七到十人都是在一個圓桌討論。我被分派在 Articles on Computer Science
Education in the Pacific Rim，這組主要討論亞洲地區的資訊科學教育現況與課程
規劃。主席是波特蘭州立大學計算機科學系教授，首先報告的是韓國南韓科學技
術院(KAIST)計算機科學系的 Prof. Choi，另一位也是來自韓國的 Prof. Park 做了
一些補充。根據 Prof. Choi 的報告，韓國資訊教育以及資訊政策與台灣極為類
似，南韓幾乎各大學以及科技學院都有資訊相關系所，政府也很重視資訊產業。
隨著 1993 年美國克林頓總統宣佈推動 NII「國家資訊基礎建設」(National
Information Infrastructure)發展計畫，南韓政府便跟進推出類似的 KII 計畫，隨後
更結合各大學研究機構以及各政府機構陸續推行 Cyber Korea 21, e-korea Vision,
Broband Korea, IT839, 以及結合 RFID 技術的 u-korea 等大型計畫(應該是類似
台灣的 e-Taiwan, M-Taiwan, u-Taiwan)。接著報告的有日本京都大學的 Professor
Tanaka，菲律賓馬尼拉亞德雷歐大學(Ateneo De Manila University) 的 Professor
Beatriz，北京大學的 Professor Zhang，接著由我報告臺灣的資訊教育概況。當我
報告到臺灣有大約一百七十所大學且幾乎各大學都有計算機科學或工程系以及
資訊管理學系時大家都非常驚訝! 此外，因為我目前是 RFID 資通安全學程計畫
副主持人，也將我們執行 RFID 學程計畫的心得跟大家分享，大家對這部份很感
興趣，尤其是對我們學程中包括 RFID 實驗專題讓大學部學生也能藉由實驗專題
參與 RFID 研究計畫的做法甚表贊同。
週六晚上主辦單位安排了一個別開生面的”電腦音樂會”，由 University of
Oregon 的教授 Professor Jeffrey Stolet 使用兩支 Wii 的無線感測搖桿控制電腦
演奏電腦音樂，藉由兩支無線搖桿的手勢以及搖動速度控制電腦音樂節奏，真的
很像真人演奏，令人印象深刻，也算是 RFID 的一種應用。
週日早上各組主持人須提出各組結論報告，所以各組的主持人不但要身兼紀
錄，還須把大家的意見整理成隔天要報告的投影片。
以下是分組討論以及綜合報告的精彩照片。
40
40
這是去胡德山的途中合影
胡德山 (Mt.Hood)的雪景
訪問西北大學(5/18)
週一清晨兩點多就 check out 趕往機場搭一早第一班飛機飛往芝加哥，因為
我只有手提行李，就試著用電腦自行 check in，真的還滿方便的。上了飛機，發
現六點不到的飛機竟然客滿， 問了一下鄰座的老美，他說大部份人是住 Portland
但在 Chicago 上班，像他是每週末搭機回 Portland，然後每週一晨搭機去 Chicago
上班，他說有些人在週日晚就須走因有些公司週一早上不可請假。
到了芝加哥後在機場內搭上地鐵，正愁等下不知要在何站轉車，發現有個學
生模樣的把腳踏車帶上火車，一問之下竟然是西北大學學生，叫我跟著他就是
了。他的腳踏車竟然是 Made in Taiwan，他說是用一千美元買的二手車，據他說
新車大約要二千美元，台灣的腳踏車竟然這麼貴也真不簡單。到了 Evanston 小
鎮下車的地方正好是我以前在西北大學讀書時住的研究生宿舍，就請那小伙子幫
我照一張相懷念。
