  
2
2
 In this project we extend the analysis 
in Chen and Li (2007) by studying the 
deformation patterns of a planar elastica 
under a conservative pushing force within a 
circular channel. At one end of the circular 
channel the elastica is fully clamped. At the 
other end the lateral displacement and slope 
of the elastica are fixed, while the elastica is 
allowed to slide in and out of the clamp in 
the longitudinal direction.  
       
2. Problem description 
Figure 1 shows a circular channel with 
outer and inner radii or  and ir . ψ  is the 
span angle of the circular channel. An elastic 
strip, or the planar elastica, is placed inside 
the channel. One end of the elastica is fully 
clamped at the left end B of the channel. On 
the right end A the elastica is partially 
clamped. By partially clamped we mean that 
the strip is allowed to slide freely through the 
clamp, while the lateral displacement and 
slope at A are fixed. The strip will be under 
external pushing force at end A. As a result 
of this pushing force, the strip originally 
outside the channel will slide through the 
partial clamp, and the shape of the strip 
inside the channel will change accordingly. 
We assume that the elastic strip is 
inextensible and is stress-free when it is 
straight. The strip is uniform in all 
mechanical properties along its length. It is 
assumed that the thickness of the elastic strip 
is much smaller than the clearance irr −0  of 
the channel. Before the application of the 
external pushing force, the elastica is in the 
form of a circular shape with constant 
bending moment throughout the entire 
length, as shown by the circular dashed 
curve in Fig.1. The original length of the 
elastica inside the circular channel is denoted 
as 0l . The solid curve in Fig. 1 represents the 
first stage of the elastica deformation when 
an external force AF  is applied to push in 
the elastica at end A. The total length of the 
strip inside the channel is increased by lΔ . 
In Fig. 1 the elastica is not in contact with 
the circular walls yet. It is not hard to 
envision that when the pushing force 
increases, the elastica will contact the outer 
radius of the channel first. However, it is not 
obvious how the elastica will behave 
thereafter. The purpose of this paper is to 
study the behavior of the elastica in response 
to the external pushing force. 
 
3. Qualitative experimental observations 
 The easiest way to visualize the 
elastica deformation is to build an 
experimental apparatus as described in 
Section 2 and make observations. The 
schematic diagram of the experimental set-
up is shown in Fig. 2. We manufactured a 
circular channel with outer radius or =40 cm, 
inner radius ir =32 cm, and span angle 
o90=ψ . The channel is manufactured by a 
CNC milling machine on a polypropylene 
block. The elastica is made of carbon steel 
strip (type SK5) with Young’s modulus 205 
GPa and mass density 7830 kg/ 3m . The 
cross section of the elastica is 46 mm× 0.1 
mm. On the right end of the channel the strip 
can be pushed in by hand through the small 
clearance of a pair of flat blocks, which 
serves as the partial clamp as described in the 
last section. The left end of the elastica is 
fully clamped in an aluminum block. We 
design a guide rail on the bottom of the left 
clamp, which is attached to a laboratory-built 
load cell. When observing the elastica 
deformation qualitatively the left clamp is 
fixed on the guide rail by screws. When 
measuring the longitudinal reactive force on 
the left end, the left clamp is allowed to slide 
on the rail slightly. It is noted that in the 
experiment we control the length of the strip 
being pushed in the channel. Therefore, this 
is a displacement control procedure instead 
of a load control procedure. 
Figures 3, 4, and 5 show the 
photographs of the elastica deformations we 
observed in the laboratory after fixing the 
left clamp on the rail. Figure 3 shows 12 
deformation patterns in one of the 
experiments. In Fig. 3(1) the elastica is 
pushed in a length 2=Δl cm. The middle 
point of the elastica is lifted up a small 
distance. This deformation pattern has been 
demonstrated in Fig. 1. After the strip is 
pushed in 4 cm, the elastica makes a point 
contact with the outer wall, as shown in Fig. 
3(2). When lΔ  increases to 7 cm, the point 
contact at the middle point evolves to 
distributed contact in the middle region, as 
shown in Fig. 3(3).  
  
4
4
4(9) are all asymmetric. The main difference 
among them is the combination of different 
folding segments, i.e., regular–regular (Fig. 
4(4)), regular-slanted (Fig. 4(5)), regular-Ω -
shaped (Fig. 4(6)), slanted-slanted (Fig. 
4(7)), Ω -shaped-slanted (Fig. 4(8)), Ω -
shaped- Ω -shaped (Fig. 4(9)). If we move 
the right folding segment in Fig. 4(9) by 
hand to the right we can produce a 
symmetric deformation pattern as shown in 
Fig. 4(10). It is noted that the pushing forces 
required to produce the eight deformations 
from 4(3) to 4(10) are theoretically the same. 
Moreover, the reactive longitudinal forces on 
the left clamps are equal to their counterparts 
on the right. 
Figure 5 shows another experimental 
procedure starting from deformation in Fig. 
5(0) at lΔ =9 cm. At this lΔ  the elastica 
deformation can be changed to Fig. 5(1) by 
pushing down the right hand side of the strip 
by hand. This action changes the curvature 
of the strip near the end on the right, which 
results in an asymmetric deformation. If we 
continue to increase lΔ  to 12 cm and push 
down the left hand side of the strip by hand, 
the elastica deformation becomes symmetric 
again as shown in Fig. 5(2). If we push back 
the left segment in Fig. 5(3) and return the 
elastica to the shape in Fig. 5(1) and 
continue to increase lΔ  to 15 cm, the 
deformation evolves to Fig. 5(3). We then 
push down the left hand side of the elastica 
in Fig. 5(3) and increase lΔ  to 17 cm to 
produce the deformation in Fig. 5(4). The 
main difference between Figs. 5(1) and 5(3) 
(and also between Figs. 5(2) and 5(4)) is that 
the folding segment on the right end 
becomes Ω -shaped. As lΔ  increases to 22 
cm, the elastica deformation becomes 
symmetric again, as shown in Fig. 5(5). It is 
noted that the pushing forces on the right 
required to produce the deformations in Figs. 
5(1) to 5(5) are theoretically the same. 
However, the reactive longitudinal force on 
the left clamp can be theoretically different 
from the external pushing forces on the right. 
This fact is different from the other 
asymmetric deformations presented in Figs. 
3(9)-3(11) and 4(4)-4(9).  
If we restart the experiment in Fig. 5(3) 
and push down the middle section of the 
strip we can produce the deformation as 
shown in Fig. 5(6), which is asymmetric with 
two point contacts on the inner wall and two 
distributed contacts on the outer wall. When 
lΔ  increases to 20 cm the elastica 
deformation evolves to Fig. 5(7), with the 
folding segment on the right end undergoing 
a necking process while the left folding 
segment remaining unchanged. By moving 
the left folding segment in Fig. 5(7) to the 
left, the deformation evolves to Fig. 5(8). As 
lΔ  increases to 27 cm, the deformation 
evolves to Fig. 5(9). While fixing lΔ  at 27 
cm, we can produce deformation in Fig. 
5(10) by moving the left folding segment to 
the left by hand. As lΔ  increases to 32 cm 
the elastica deformation evolves to Fig. 
5(11). Two comments are worth mentioning 
regarding deformations 5(6) to 5(11). First of 
all, these deformations may be compared in 
pairs, i.e., Figs. 5(6) and 5(7), 5(8) and 5(9), 
5(10) and 5(11). The left folding segments of 
each pair remain unchanged while one of the 
right folding segments undergoes necking 
process. Secondly, the pushing forces 
required to produce these six deformations 
are theoretically the same. The reactive 
longitudinal forces on the left clamp for 
these six deformations are also theoretically 
the same. However, these left longitudinal 
forces are different from the external pushing 
forces on the right.  
Several observations in Figs. 3, 4, and 5 
may be summarized before we leave this 
section. (1) First of all these photos show 
some possible deformation patterns produced 
in the laboratory by controlling the strip 
length increment inside the channel for a 
specific geometry, i.e., or =40 cm, ir =32 cm, 
and o90=ψ . We have no intention to claim 
that these deformations are complete. It is 
certainly possible to produce even more 
complicated deformation patterns involving 
more than two folding segments with larger 
lΔ . (2) While the boundary conditions at 
both ends are the same, the deformations can 
be symmetric with respect to the central 
radius or completely asymmetric. (3) For the 
case when the contacts on the outer wall are 
distributed the folding segments of the 
elastica can be moved at will within certain 
range. As a consequence the deformation 
may become asymmetric. For instance, see 
Figs. 3(5) and 3(6). On the other hand, if the 
elastica is in point contact with the outer 
