 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫年度報告 
智慧型射頻辨識感測器系統的發展(3/3) 
Development of A Smart RFID Sensors System (3/3) 
計 畫 編 號：NSC-96-2628-E-002-201-MY3- 
執 行 期 限：98 年 8 月 1 日至 99 年 7 月 31 日 
主 持 人：黃漢邦 台灣大學機械工程學系 
計畫參與人員：張明輝                        台灣大學機械工程學系 
陳葵宏、吳思嫻、蔡宜霖        台灣大學工業工程研究所 
一、中文摘要 
第三年主要包含三部分。第一部份是建立一個可控制、監控及提供一些基本功能的多功能的中介
軟體。第二部份是發展一個計算能源管理及排程問題的演算法。最後一部份為完成感測器定位。 
 
關鍵詞：中界軟體、能源管理、感測器定位 
 
Abstract 
There are three main topics in the third year. The first one is to construct a multi-function middleware for 
controlling, monitoring, and offering some more basic functions. The second one is to develop algorithms for 
solving the power management scheduling problem. The last one is to do sensor localization. 
 
二、計畫緣由及目的 
With the products with RFID tags become more and more huge [10], major company (such as Sun, IBM, 
Oracle) introduce RFID middleware product which process RFID tag data cause of extending RFID related 
technology and application. RFID middleware which receives tag data from reader, process receiving data, 
and transmit result to application acts key role of applying RFID technology to application. 
Both the size and cost of RFID tags have followed the progression of Moore's Law [16] to where it's now 
feasible to attach RFID tags to a package of razor blades. But every opportunity carries its challenge, and 
there are many challenges posed by RFID. A real time RFID digestion will generate a few terabytes of data 
per year. It's becoming more of the standard to store and process this type of volume. In the program trading 
application, 5,000-50,000 change events occur every second! The second generation RFID standard for 
readers stipulates a single reader must handle 1,800 reads a second, and a typical distribution center will have 
20-100 readers creating event streams simultaneously. [32] The volume and velocity of RFID data will exceed 
hardware supporting applications and across applications, playing the role of organic connection between the 
reader layer that reads raw data and the application layer that utilize the data. 
RFID middleware is “system software that collects a large volume of raw data from heterogeneous RFID 
environments, filters them and summarizes into meaningful information, and delivers the information to 
application services,” and middleware platform software that standardizes common functions necessary for 
the development of RFID applications and provides them as components. 
The basic structure of middleware is as in Figure 1. The major basic functions of middleware are supporting 
the independency of the protocol of heterogeneous readers, managing data through real-time collection, 
filtering and summarizing, and interoperating with legacy system through being integrated with application 
programs. Other functions include process modeling, real-time execution and controlling, and middleware 
should have a structure of high scalability and availability. However, there are problems in interoperability 
due to lack of middleware standard, in real-time data processing, in integration with legacy systems, and in 
information protection. 
 
Figure 1 RFID Middleware Structure [17] 
Besides, since RFID system is designed and used for data-collection, some modules [8] such as: 
Application Manager, Edge Server Client, Edge Event Client and PDA Listening Server and so on should be 
included and considered. Figure 2 shows the component diagram of information platform. 
 4
 
Figure 3 RFID middleware solutions [14] 
(c) GMPP Service 
Yu [27] provides a generic message passing platform (GMPP). When the advance set events happened, such 
like the exceeding number of tags, unusual data, a specific tag, an intrusion event and RFID reader connection 
error…etc, the system may notify the system manager or related engineers by GMPP service. Figure 4 shows 
the diagram. 
 
Figure 4 General Message Passing Platform [27] 
 6
rule1, rule2, rule3 and rule5 as follows: 
Rule1: one point beyond zone A. 
Rule2: nine points a row in zone C and beyond. 
Rule3: six points steadily increasing or decreasing. 
Rule5: two out of three points in a row in zone A or beyond. 
 
Figure 5 The violation of control chart 
(b) Principal Component Analysis 
Principal Component Analysis (PCA) is concerned as the variance-covariance structure of a set of 
variables with linear combinations. The general objectives of PCA are data reduction and interpretation. Based 
on PCA, one can reduce the data and interpret the relationships among the whole variables. Hence, a small 
number of principal components k can stand for as much information as the original p variables hold.  The 
raw data set consisting of n measurements on p variables 1, 2, ... pX X X  is reduced to a dataset consisting of 
measurements on k principal components. Principal components depend only on the covariance matrix (or 
the correlation matrix ρ ) of 1, 2, ... pX X X . The development does not require a multivariate normal 
assumption. On the other hand, principal components derived for multivariate normal populations have useful 
interpretations in terms of the constant density ellipsoids.  
Let the random vector 1, 2,[ ...
T ]pX X X X=  means a random vector which stand for discharging power in 
operation time of motors have the covariance matrix ∑  with eigenvalues 1 2 ... 0pλ λ λ≥ ≥ ≥ ≥ , iX  represents 
discharging power in operation time of each motor, 1, 2,...,i p= . The principal components are those 
 8
 10
cted to the 
diagno
e system integration of RFID localization systems, which can be used for tracking 
objec
elated to the simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) 
prob
iddleware 
 used to refer to software that resides on a server between the physical 
layer
After executing Multi-Phase PCA-based SPC, the data of abnormal behaviors will be colle
sing and analyzing system to judge. 
3. Sensor Localization 
This part deals with th
ts or persons, or to act as a sensor node in an RF sensor network. The design mainly consists of discrete 
ICs and RFID localization system integration. The RFID localization system bases itself on existing SLAM 
theory, and utilizes the RSSI function of the RF module to obtain the sensor uncertainty model, and then 
estimates the tag position using e.g. Kalman filter or particle filter. The RFID localization system is realized 
using the cc2420 RF module made by Chipcon, 8051 microcontroller, and the Analog Device ADXL213 
sensor. The system chart is given in Figure 28. 
The problem considered here is closely r
lem. It analyzes whether recent Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) technology can be used to 
improve the localization of mobile robots and persons in their environment [18]. A probabilistic measurement 
model for RFID readers could allow us to accurately localize RFID tags in the environment. Nowadays RFID 
readers can detect low-cost passive tags in the range of several meters. The improvements in the detection 
range of RFID sensors makes this technology more and more attractive for robotics applications since the 
information provided by tags can be used to support various tasks like navigation, localization, mapping, and 
even service applications such as people tracking. The system [1] presents a novel approach for localizing 
passive RFID tags within an environment where reader antennas are deployed in known positions. Each 
antenna spans the environment through rotation and acquires the IDs of the tags in the reading range (by also 
exploring the angular sector with different transmitting powers). Here, a localization algorithm takes 
advantages of both the different detection powers and a Bayesian approach to fuse information coming from 
the different readers. Experimental results show that the average accuracy of the localization in a 5mx4m area 
is about 0.6m with 4 readers. 
四、結論與成果 
1. Multi-function M
RFID middleware is generally
 (readers) and application layer. The middleware is used to filter data and pass on only useful information 
  
Figure 8 Operation of flexible control cell Figure 9 Web monitoring interface of FMC 
In the aspect of implementation, reading/writing is transmitted by a specific packet to the information 
platform in place of the original RFID module. The reader is triggered by the edge server to read/write data. 
The security mechanism is adopted. Hence, the data read by a general reader is encrypted information. 
About the integration of diagnosis and maintenance, the processes are shown in Figure 10. If there any 
unusual event happened, the system would notify engineers by SMS (a). Engineers can diagnosis through the 
record data carried on the RFID sensor (b). Therefore, through the received outcome from the remote side, 
engineers can maintain the machine according to the type of abnormal cause. The system restore to normal 
operation after the engineers notify the system of successful maintenance. 
  
(a) Notify engineers by SMS (b)UI of remote diagnosis 
Figure 10 The processes of diagnosis and maintenance 
The data which is read by the information platform will be stored in a database automatically. The 
relevant manufacturers (third party) may obtain the history information carried on the tag by web-service 
(Information service). A conversion progress of the data carried on the tag was stored. When an unusual event 
happened, it will send a message to the correlated person by GMPP. In addition, it will send a message to the 
 12
value, then  and P I  are in direct proportion, equally the shapes and trends of waveforms of  and P I are 
the same except the measurement of Y-axis. Second, we simulate three kinds of motions including nature-type, 
walk-type and square. The illustrations are as follows. 
Nature-type 
“Nature-Type” shows robot arm rotates depicted in Figure 12, and the amplitude of vibration is not too 
large. The simulation of waveforms is shown in Figure 14 and Figure 15. In these two figures display power 
consumption and using current on each axis, and further, axis01 and axis02 indicate two axes on the shoulder, 
axis03 and axis04 indicate two axes on the elbow, and axis05 and axis06 indicate two axes in the wrist. 
  
Figure 14 Power waveforms of humanoid robot arms 
at nature-type 
Figure 15 Current waveforms of humanoid robot 
arms at nature-type 
Walk-type 
“Walk-Type” shows robot arm swings forward and backward like a man swings his arms as he walks 
depicted in Figure 13. Since Walk-Type uses one axis on the shoulder only, so the simulation has one 
waveform and is shown in Figure 16 and Figure 17. 
  
Figure 16 Power waveforms of humanoid robot arms 
at walk-type 
Figure 17 Current waveforms of humanoid robot 
arms at walk-type 
Square 
“Square” shows robot raises it arm and draws the shape of a square clockwise. The range of Square 
movements is quiet extensive, so also displaying six axes below. The simulation of waveforms is shown in 
 14
network that is trained using unsupervised learning to produce a low-dimensional and representation of the 
input space of the training samples, called a map. Self-organizing maps use a neighborhood function to 
preserve the topological properties of the input space. 
A self-organizing map consists of components called nodes or neurons. Associated with each node is a 
weight vector of the same dimension as the input data vectors and a position in the map space. The 
self-organizing map describes a mapping from a higher dimensional input space to a lower dimensional map 
space. The procedure for placing a vector from data space onto the map is to find the node with the closest 
weight vector to the vector taken from data space and to assign the map coordinates of this node to our vector. 
Figure 20 is the clusters of SOM and Figure 21 is the classified outcomes and correctness of SOM. 
  
Figure 20 The clusters of SOM Figure 21 The classified outcomes and correctness of 
SOM 
(d) Classification Tree 
Classification tree (also known as decision tree) method is a good choice when the data mining task is 
classification or prediction of outcomes and the goal is to generate rules that can be easily understood, 
explained, and translated into SQL or a natural query language. It is built through a process known as binary 
recursive partitioning. This is an iterative process of splitting the data into partitions, and then splitting it up 
further on each of the branches. 
Initially, start with a training set on Fig. in which the classification label is known for each record. On the 
top layer of classification tree are “abnormality in residual power” and “abnormality in discharging power”. 
All of the records in the training set are together in one big box. The algorithm then systematically tries 
breaking up the records into two parts, examining one variable at a time and splitting the records on the basis 
of a dividing line in that variable. The object is to attain as homogeneous set of labels as possible in each 
partition. This splitting or partitioning is then applied to each of the new partitions. The process continues 
 16
 
 
Figure 23 SPC trend chart of walk-type power 
waveforms 
Figure 24 Using classification tree to find out 
abnormal behavior of walk-type 
Table 2 Comparisons between classification tree and SOM 
 Average diagnosing rate Correctness 
Classification tree 0.0252476 100% 
SOM 0.0237734 97.3% 
 
This subsystem is based on power management which is including dynamic power scheduling system, 
real-time monitoring system, diagnosing and analyzing system, and predictive maintenance system. In this 
paper, we use the proposed monitoring system and diagnosing and analyzing system of power management 
system to study the power and current waveforms by simulation on ADAMS while robot arms are operating 
on commanded motions. In monitoring system, the Multi-Phase PCA-based SPC can effectively monitor 
operating conditions of several motors avoiding missing some important information. After comparing with 
the methods of classification tree and SOM using in diagnosing and analyzing system, the latter one consumes 
shorter diagnosing time but lower correctness. 
3. Sensor Localization 
RFID is just one type of sensor-based technology; others include moisture, light, temperature, and 
vibration sensors. In this thesis, we implement a smart RFID sensor module which uses RF chip and 
microcontroller combined with gyroscope sensor. The module not only verifies the SoC architecture but also 
realizes localization system with RFID technology. 
(a) Hardware Architecture 
To implement smart RFID module, the first step was to choose a radio transceiver and attempt to develop a 
method of accurately and reliably capturing the RF signal strength. Using the Chipcon CC2500 RFICs, we 
prototyped several signal strength analysis circuits before settling upon one that is robust, efficient, and 
 18
if RSSI_dec 128, 
then RSSI_dBm=(RSSI_dec-256)/2-RSSI_offet
if RSSI_dec<128,  
then RSSI_dBm=(RSSI_dec)/2-RSSI_offet
≥
 (2)  
The first step was to perform a simple experiment to determine if it was reasonable to believe that our 
RFID sensor module could provide the signal strength data required and warranted further investigation. 
Figure 28 is architectural illustration of experiment environment. 
To evaluate the sensitivity of the system, we deployed the modules in several varying environments. 
There are three environments to get the uncertainty model of RSSI. The experiment was setup as follows: A 
single reader is placed at a point of the environment connected to a laptop or LCD monitor running our 
measurement. A RFID sensor module is placed in the front of the reader. The module is moved to slightly 
increase the distance of the reader and several signal strength measurements are taken. Above steps repeated 
in the different environments. In the finished, we can get the relation of RSSI vs. distance. 
Firstly, a meeting room is shown in the Figure 29. There is much furniture in the room which results in 
non-linear or quadratic model, as shown in Figure 30. Secondly, a corridor is shown in the Figure 31. Figure 
32 shows that the experiment result has bigger variance of quadratic model. An outdoor environment is set, as 
shown in Figure 33. Figure 34 is the experiment results of RSSI model. 
The linear model does not capture the curve and so choices quadratic model. However, the theoretical 
model creates errors especially for the RSSI measurements in the environment of many hampers. 
 
Figure 29 Meeting room Figure 30 Module RSSI Results1 
 20
observed path loss L is 
2
0
2
( )1Prob( ) exp[ ]
22
L LL σσ π
− −=  (4)  
Since we model path loss as a random variable, each possible value of L will be associated with a 
probability. Given any L’, from Eq. (3) and Eq. (4), we can derive the probability that the detected distance is 
d’ given that the actual distance is d0 is: 
2
0
2
'(10 log( ))
1Prob( ') exp[ ]
22
dn
dL σσ π
−
=  (5)  
Next, we consider location estimation based on multiple reference tags, as shown in Figure 35. We are given 
a sensing field A in which there is a set S of n reference tags {s1, s2,…, sn}. Assumes reference tags {s1, 
s2,…, sn} are placed at known location (xi, yi). Our goal is to develop a numerical model to estimate the 
location tracking capability of the sensor network. Firstly, given an object at an unknown location l which is 
estimated location l? The probability that reference tag si estimates that the location of l is at e, denoted by 
. ilP (e)
2i
i i
l i2
i
distance(e,s )-(10nlog( ))
d1P (e)= exp[ ].......,if distance(e,s ) R
2σσ 2π
        = 0                                                             .......,if distance(e,s )>R  
≤  (6)  
where R is the predefined range of each reference tag. 
 
Figure 35 Location estimation 
We use MATLAB to simulate a 100x100 region. If we place one reader at location (0, 100) and a 
reference tag at (50, 50), Figure 36 shows the probability distribution of the estimated location of the target 
tag. The Figure 37 shows the probability distribution of the case 2 which a target tag at (50, 50) walks to the 
upper left corner by the lower right corner. The Figure 38 shows the probability distribution after four 
reference tags are added to the system. Note that in Figure 38 the peak does appear close to the actual location 
 22
 24
[3] L. Benini et al., “A Survey of Design Techniques for System-level Dynamic Power Management”, 
Proceeding of IEEE Transactions on Very Large 
[4]  W. C. Chang, “Modular Cell Controller Design and Development for RFID Based Flexible 
Manufacturing System,” Master Thesis, Institute of Industrial Engineering and Management, National 
Taipei University of Technology, 2006. 
[5] T. Cheong, Y. Kim and Y. Lee, “REMS and RBPTS: ALE-compliant RFID Middleware Software 
Platform,” Proceedings of the International Conference on Advanced Communication Technology, Vol. 1, 
pp.699-704, February 2006. 
[6] H. D. Chon, S. Jun, H. Jung, and S. W. An, “Using RFID for Accurate Positioning,” IEEE Journal of 
Global Positioning Systems, Vol. 3, No. 1-2, pp. 32-39, 2004. 
[7] M. Esmaili, H. A. Shayanfar, and N. Amjady, “Congestion Management Considering Voltage Security of 
Power Systems”, Energy Conversion and Management, Vol. 50, pp. 2562-2569, 2009.  
[8] F. L. Huang “Development of Radio Frequency Identification Information Platform,” Master Thesis, 
Graduate Institute of Industrial Engineering, 2006. 
[9] S. Jieun and K. Howon, “The RFID Middleware System Supporting Context-aware Access Control 
Service,” Advanced Communication Technology, Vol. 1, pp. 1-4, February 2006. 
[10] L. Jongyoung and K. Naesoo, “Performance Test Tool for RFID Middleware: Parameters, Design, 
Implementation, and Features,” Advanced Communication Technology, Vol. 1, pp. 149-152, February 
2006. 
[11] Y. I. Kim, J. S. Park and Tea-Su Cheong, “Study of RFID Middleware Framework for Ubiquitous 
Computing Environment,” Proceedings of the International Conference on Advanced Communication 
Technology, Vol. 2, pp. 825-830, February 2005. 
[12] H. Kojima and T. Kibe, "Optimal trajectory planning of a two-link flexible robot arm based on Genetic 
Algorithm for residual vibration reduction," in Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on 
Intelligent Robots and Systems, Hawaii, October 29-November 3, pp. 2276-2281. 
[13] A. J. Koshkouei, K. J. Burnham and A. S. I. Zinober, “Dynamic sliding mode control design,” IEEE Proc. 
Control Theory and Applications, vol. 152, no. 4, pp. 392-396, July 2005. 
[14] S. Leaver, Evaluating RFID Middleware, Forrester Research Inc., August 2004. 
 26
Application for Construction,” Automation in Construction, pp.477-490, August 2005. 
[27] K. Yamano, K. Kanata, M. Hirayama, E. Kondo, Y. Kimuro and M. Matsumoto,  “Self-localization of 
Mobile Robots with RFID System by using Support Vector Machine,” Proceeding of. 2004 IEEE/RSJ 
International Conference, Vol. 4, pp.3756-3761, September 2004. 
[28] C. Y. Yu and H. P. Huang, “Development of the Order Fulfillment Process in the Foundry Fab by 
Applying Distributed Multi-Agents on A Generic Message-Passing Platform,” IEEE/ASME Transactions 
on Mechatronics, Vol. 6, No. 4, pp 387-398, December 2001. 
[29] R. Zheng, J. C. Hou and L. Sha, “Performance Analysis of Power Management Policies in Wireless 
Networks,” IEEE Journal of Transactions on Wireless Communications, Vol. 5, No. 6, pp.1351-1361, 
June 2006. 
[30] EPCglobal Inc., “The Application Level Events Specification, Version 1.0”, September 2005. 
[31] EPCglobal IncTM, The Application Level Events (ALE) Specification Version 1.0, September 2005. 
[32] http://www.epcglobalinc.org/standards/sdp/ 
[33] http://www14.software.ibm.com/webapp/download/demo.jsp?id=Tivoli+Monitoring+Power+Manageme
nt+Oct07&locale=zh_tw 
[34] http://www.hc.com.tw/tw-prod/hc_pems/intro.htm. 
[35] http://www.raritan-ap.com/tw/products/power-management/ 
[36] http://focus.ti.com/docs/toolsw/folders/print/cc2500-cc2550dk.html 
 2
             參加 2009 年 ROBIO 國際研討會報告 
 
一、參加會議經過 
本次會議在大陸桂林舉行，會議期間從 2009 年 12 月 19 日至 12 月 23 日，主
辦單位為 IEEE （Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers）、Hong Kong 
Chinese University。會議一共持續五天，第一天及最後一天均為 Tutorial 和 
Workshop。主要報告是在 20 日至 22 日之間，我們於 23 日吃完早餐後就坐飛機回
台灣。   
接待酒會在19日舉行，最佳論文頒獎典禮及大會Banquet是在21日晚上舉辦。由
於ROBIO是目前在機械與電機領域水準最高的研討會之一，因此許多世界知名的
學者都來參加這個盛會，其中包含Professor Paolo Dario, Scuola Superiore Sant’Anna, 
Pisa，Professor Koji Ikuta, Nagoya University，名古屋大學的Prof. Toshio Fukuda等
知名教授皆參加此次會議。 
本次會議總共有 72 場論文發表，3 場 Plenary Speech。Plenary Speech 主題分別
為: 
Plenary Talk 1: New Paradigms in Robotics: Biomimetics for new Science, Bioinspiration for new 
Technology,  Professor Paolo Dario, Scuola Superiore Sant’Anna, Pisa 
In this lecture, the rationale for exploring biomimetics and bioinspiration in robotics will be 
presented and discussed. Then, examples of the aforementioned paradigms will be provided, 
with reference to several biological models investigated at Scuola Superiore Sant’Anna, the 
so-called “Sant’Anna Zoo”. In particular, the problem of friction in oligochaetae locomotion will 
 4
發表都圍繞在系統整合以及跨領域之技術發展，代表著目前在單一領域上的發
展都已經有一定的成果，所以研究者們開始朝著跨領域發展，讓我們設計出來
的系統與產品更為廣泛與人性化。 
2. 人形機器人的發展–除了人型機器人的運動能力以外，研究者也非常注重在機
器人與人類的互動之上，從十年前要讓機器人能夠走好都很困難的情況，到現
在我們已經可以考慮讓機器人怎麼樣平順地和人類互動，證明了我們在機器人
運動上已經有所突破了。 
3. 人性融入自動化技術 – 看護機器人、服務機器人、玩具機器人、教學用機器
人等等非工業用機器人已經是不管業界或學界所注重的研究領域了，需考慮以
人為主體的研究與技術已經是不能忽略的部份了，這方面在業界的產值也年年
增加，非常地有發展潛力。 
4. 機器人之影像與智慧感應器技術 – 不管是監視系統、門禁系統甚至自動地圖
建立系統，都會需要影像處理演算法之輔助，許多影像應用之演算法也因此而
開發。此次論文大多集中於偵測人的動作、瞭解人的行為、立體視覺、以及視
覺伺服等研究。 
5. 微奈米機器人系統發展以及在生物醫學科技的應用，。正方興未艾 
三、建議 
近年來，在機器人領域上，世界各地的研究人員不斷地在這個領域上有所突
破。在本次研討會上也可以發現，不同類型的研究類型也漸漸出現，其中大多都
是結合不同領域的研究，譬如說將機器人科技與制動器之設計用在復健上，或是
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/12/27
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 智慧型射頻辨識感測器系統的發展
計畫主持人: 黃漢邦
計畫編號: 96-2628-E-002-201-MY3 學門領域: 自動化系統整合技術 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 智慧型射頻辨識感測器系統的發展(3/3)
(英文) Development of A Smart RFID Sensors System (3/3)
成果歸屬機構
國立臺灣大學 發明人
(創作人)
黃漢邦
技術說明
(中文) 第三年主要包含三部分。第一部份是利用智慧型射頻辨識感測器系統建立一個可
控制、監控及提供一些基本功能的多功能的中介軟體，利用此軟體，我們可以達
成快速以及系統化的系統監控。第二部份是發展一個計算能源管理及排程問題的
演算法，可以達到最佳化工業平台，工具機或是機器人之能源控管，並且保護這
接機台上面的電池與制動器，減少電流過大與突波之影響。最後一部份為完成感
測器定位，利用此一系統，我們可以達成即時的定位，讓我們得以監控廠房內車
輛，人員或是機器人的確切位置。
(英文) There are three main topics in the third year. The first one is to construct a multi-function 
middleware for controlling, monitoring, and offering some more basic functions. The 
second one is to develop algorithms for solving the power management scheduling 
problem. The last one is to do sensor localization.
產業別 其他專業、科學及技術服務業
技術/產品應用範圍 智慧型射頻辨識感測器系統、能源管理、感測器定位，以及智慧型手機。
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
智慧型射頻辨識感測器系統可以應用在智慧型手機、智慧型機器人或是保全系統上。我
們所研發出的技術可以轉移給業界，例如是工研院或是保全公司等機關。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
