A simulation software for the electric and hybrid 
driving system was developed. The software was based 
on SimuLink, and it could provide the prediction of 
fuel economy and vehicle performance. The simulation 
tool could help the development of electric and 
hybrid driving control, and optimize the energy 
management to improve the fuel economy. The software 
would help to predict hardware performance and 
shorten the time and cost needed for the hardware 
development. 
英文關鍵詞： Electric vehicle, Hybrid system, All terrain vehicle, 
Electric hybrid system, Fuel economy 
 
2 
中文摘要 
內燃機在車輛上的應用和發展已經超過了百年歷史，內燃機的技術和理論的發展已相當成
熟，並且應用於生活的各項領域。但是內燃機的廣泛應用也對環境帶來一些負面影響，如
何減少排氣汙染和增加能源效率，對汽車未來發展是個重要的課題。三個常用的解決方案
為:電動車、油電混合車、及燃料電池車。在這個計畫中，主要著重於電動和油電混合四輪
越野車的研究與開發。 
在這個計畫中採用越野車(All Terrain Vehicle)做為測試和發展的平台。越野車擁有開放
的車身結構、較小的馬力、完整的底盤結構和四輪傳動系統等優點，因此它特別適合用來
測試不同的傳動系統。開放的車身結構，使傳動系統的組件可以輕易的拆卸和組裝，較無
空間限制問題。相對於一般車輛，因越野車車身較輕且馬力較小，其所需要的複合動力系
統的組件相對也較小些，其硬體的建構成本亦較少。此硬體既可驗證設計概念，又可提供
一個完整複合動力系統的測試平台。複合動力越野車可以用來測試前輪、後輪、或四輪的
傳動系統，增加了複合動力系統設計上的彈性，以越野車為硬體驗證是一個恰當且低成本
的選擇。 
這個計畫主要分為兩個步驟，第一個步驟是電動車的研究開發。在這個步驟，主要設計前
輪電力驅動系統和組裝。控制系統包含電力驅動和煞車反充等主要功能。第二個步驟是複
合動力系統的研發和應用。主要在結合第一部份的電力系統和越野車原有的內燃機傳動系
統。串接式和並聯式的油電混合系統會在這步驟分別組裝和測試。不同的能源管理與動力
控制系統也將針對串接式和並聯式油電混合系統作最佳化規劃設計。 
這個計畫使用越野車作為複合動力系統的測試平台。計畫將由發展純電力驅動系統開始，
然後衍生油電混合系統。這計畫將可提供一個完整的硬體和控制系統的測試平台。經由測
試平台，可以測試控制邏輯，並針對能源效率作改善和最佳化。進而提供電動或油電混合
越野車量產設計之用，或較大型車輛設計的藍圖，以減少開發時間和經費。 
本計劃預計完成的結果敘述如下:  
1. 發展越野車純電力驅動系統，包含電力驅動和煞車反充控制邏輯及系統 (第一年) 
2. 發展電力驅動系統模擬分析軟體並進行實車驗證 (第一年) 
3. 研究發展越野車串接和並聯式油電混合驅動系統 (第二年) 
4. 研究、發展能源管理和動力控制系統的優化，以提高燃油使用效率 (第二年) 
5. 發展油電混合驅動系統模擬分析軟體，以加速控制系統的發展 (第二年) 
關鍵字：電動車、油電混合車、能源效率、越野車 
 
  
4 
 
Keywords： Electric vehicle, Hybrid system, All terrain vehicle, Electric hybrid system, Fuel 
economy 
  
6 
develop and implement an electric system. In this stage, an electric system will be implemented. 
It starts with pure electric traction system. Then, the hybrid power system will be implemented in 
the second stage, in the second year project. 
There were two objects of this project. One was the development of an ATV electric driving 
system, which was the hardware part of project and would be presented in section 2. The other 
one was the development of simulation software for the electric and hybrid driving system, and 
this part would be introduced in section 3. 
 
2. Electric Drive Installation 
An ATV(All Terrain Vehicle) was chosen for the electric driving system installation. It was 
the TGB 500CC four-wheel-drive system, and the model was TARGET 550IRS, as shown in 
Figure 1. 
 
Figure 1, TARGET 550IRS 
 
 The vehicle had a 500 CC internal combustion engine, and a four-wheel-drive powertrain. 
The front driving system was removed to leave the space for the electric power system, and the 
rear driving system was remained but disabled for later hybrid system implementation. 
The electric power system included the wheel motors, control units, and lithium-iron battery. 
This power system was installed in the front-wheel-drive, and the detail of components would be 
introduced in the following sections. 
 
2.1 Wheel Motors  
Two 1.8 kW vehicle wheel motors, Figure 2, provided by WS Forever Green Technology 
were installed in the front wheels’ hubs. Before the installation, the original front axle and 
differential was removed. A fixture, Figure 3, replaced the wheel hub bearing to hold the motor 
axle. The brake disk caliper was adjusted for the braking disk attached to the motor. 
8 
(SOC) vs. battery voltage was presented in Figure 5. 
 
 
Figure 5, 72V 30Ah Lithium-iron Battery  
 
The electric drive system was installed in the ATV, as shown in Figure 6. The vehicle was 
placed on the chassis dynamometer for driving test. The maximum speed was around 90 km/h. 
The electric consumption of motors in different speed was list in Table 1. 
 
Figure 6, ATV with Front Electric Power System  
 
Table 1, Motor Current in Different Speed 
 
Vehicle Speed Motor Current (A)
20 15.6
40 20.0
50 30.0
60 34.0
70 40.0
90 51.4
10 
The acceleration here was treated "predictively" whereas it may also be treated "retro-
spectively," as follows: 
    
?a f (1) = 0,       ?a f (k ⋅h) =
v f (k ⋅h) − v f (k ⋅h − h)
h
,   k = 2,  …kmax  
which leaded to less realistic values. 
 
Figure 8, Schematic Representation of the Block "Driver-Control 
 
3.1.2 Vehicle  
The total running resistance might be divided in four groups: 
 Aerodynamic losses 
 Rolling resistance losses 
 Vehicle acceleration resistance losses (inertia) 
 External resistance losses such as those arising from climbing. 
In the toolbox library, the block "Vehicle Dynamics" showed these effects. The block 
“Vehicle Dynamics” derived vehicle velocity due to the traction force that driver demands. 
This velocity was compared to desired velocity to adjust the required traction torque. 
 
Figure 9, Block "Vehicle Dynamics" 
12 
Simulink demanded independent variables to be strictly monotonously increasing vector, this 
data should be read from .mat file. 
3.1.3.2 Electric Motor 
The models for electric motors were similar to those of IC engines, i.e., their inputs 
consisted of the demanded torque values at the desired rotational speed. The output was the 
demanded electric power. 
In addition, just about every electric motor could be used in either two quadrants, as long 
as a suitable power amplifier was available. Here, the power amplifier was not modeled since 
its losses were included in the overall motor losses. As did the IC engine, an electric motor 
obviously required a maximum torque switch as well as a maximum rotational speed switch, 
leading to the top level of the model as shown in Figure 11. 
 
Figure 11, Electric Motor Model in Two-Quadrant Operation 
 
The characteristics of electric motors might be entered in the model directly, since they 
did not contain any singularities. The electric power required within the first quadrant (ωEM > 
0 and TEM > 0) could be expressed as follows: 
   
1
( , )EM EM EM EM EM EM
P T
T
ω
η ω
= ⋅ ⋅
 
and, in the second quadrant (ωEM > 0 and TEM < 0), 
    ( , )EM EM EM EM EM EMP T Tω η ω= ⋅ ⋅  
To avoid keeping distinguish between these two cases, these equations could be 
combined into a single efficiency map used for both quadrants. 
The design and data structure of this program map was identical to the one in IC engines, 
even though physically they had different meanings, i.e., the block "Efficiency" in Figure 11 
contained: 
14 
   out inP e P= ⋅  
where outP  and inP  represented the power leaving and entering the system, respectively. 
Since reversed flow was possible, Figure 13 showed the solution presented by the toolbox 
library for the simplest case. The gear ratio was controlled by the block “Mode and Gear 
Selector” based on the pedal position. 
 Figure 13, Differentiation According to Flow Direction in the Block "Automatic Transaxle" 
 
 Brake model  
This model defined braking torque to wheels due to the braking coefficient and 
proportion of braking mass. Regenerative braking was also implemented in the braking 
model. 
 
Figure 14, Model of the Block "Braking Bystem" 
16 
 
Table 2, Vehicle Parameters 
 Parameter Value 
Total mass of the vehicle [kg] 400 
Vehicle cross section [m^2] 1.750 
Wheel diameter [m]  0.3175 
Drag coefficient [-] 0.72 
Rolling friction coefficient [-] 0.045 
 
Table 3, Internal Combustion Engine Parameters 
 Parameter Value 
Engine type, single cylinder SOHC Otto 
Displacement [cc] 0.503 
Idle speed [r/min] 800 
Max. power [kW-rpm] 73/4000 
 
Table 4, Transmission Parameters 
 Parameter Value 
Differential gear [-] 2.7 
Efficiency [-] 0.9 
Gear 
ratios 
 
 
1 4.685 
2 2.942 
3 1.923 
4 1.301 
5 1 
 
Table 5, Motor Parameters 
 Parameter Value 
Motor  power [kW] 6x2 
Max rotation [r/min] 1270 
Motor weight  [kg] 5x2 
 
Table 6, Battery Parameters 
 Parameter Value 
Capacity of battery [Ah] 30 
Nominal voltage of battery [V] 79.2 
No. of cell (24 series) 48 
Battery weight [kg] 29 
 
3.2.1 ICE Vehicle 
This example was based only on the elements which were included in the toolbox library. 
Our goal was to design a conventional vehicle that runs the internal combustion engine only. 
18 
 
Figure 18, Results of ICE Vehicle Simulation 
 
3.2.2 Pure Electric Vehicle 
Similarly, the same elements in the toolbox library could be used to design a purely 
electric vehicle model that ran on the electric power only. This model was a represent of the 
hardware introduced in the section 2. The top level of the model was shown in Figures 19 and 
20, where the elements introduced above are evident in the arrangement for the type of 
vehicle to be designed.  
 
 
Figure 19, Top Level of the Purely Electric Vehicle Model 
20 
 
Figure 22, Top Level of the Parallel Hybrid Vehicle Model 
 
Figure 23, hybrid Powertrain Model 
 
Some results of the hybrid vehicle on ECE 15 driving cycle simulation were depicted in 
Figure 24, the desired and actual vehicle velocity, equivalent fuel consumption and engine 
fuel consumption, state of charge of battery, distributed torque of motor with respect to speed 
motor, and torque of engine with respect to speed engine. The equivalent fuel consumption of 
parallel hybrid vehicle on ECE 15 driving cycle was 22.59 km/l. 
 
22 
 
6. Reference  
1. Richard W. Cazrlson, Michael J. Duoba, Theodore P. Bohn, and Anantray D. Vyas, “Testing 
and Analysis of the Three Plug-in Hybrid Eelctric Vehicles” SAE Paper No. 2007-01-0283, 
2007 
2. Paul Nelson, Ira Bloom, Khalil Amine, and Gary Henriksen, “Simulation of Lithium-Ion 
Battery Performance in Hybrid Electric Vehicles” SAE Paper No. 2002-01-1915, 2002 
3. Jesse Park, Besty Raju, and Ali Emadi, “Effects of an Ultra-Capacitor and Battery Energy 
Storage System in a Hybrid Electric Vehicle” SAE Paper No. 2005-01-3452, 2005 
4. Qiuming Gong, Yaoyu Li, and Zhong-Ren Peng, “Trip Based Optimal Power Management 
of Plug-in Hybrid Eelctric Vehicle with Advanced Traffic Modeling” SAE Paper No. 
2008-01-1316, 2008 
5. Naoto Kawabata, Masashi Komada, and Takayoshi Yoshioka, “Noise and Vibration 
Reduction Technology in the Development of Hybrid Luxury Sedan with Series/Parallel 
Hybrid System” SAE Paper No. 2007-01-2232, 2007 
6. Walter Ortmann, Daniel Colvin, S. Robert Fozo, Michael Encelewski and Marvin Kraska, 
“Incorporating an Electric Machine into the Transmission Control of Ford's Modular Hybrid 
Transmission” SAE Paper No. 2004-01-0069, 2004 
7. Mehrdad Ehsani, Yimin Gao, and Ali Emadi, Modern Eelctric, Hybrid Eelctric, and Fuel 
Cell Vehicles, CRC Press, 2010 
8. Hwang, H.-Y., and Chen, J.-S., “Noise and Vibration on the Bogie of a Mass Rapid Train,” 
Journal of Mechanical Science and Technology, 25 (10), 2519-2528, 2011. 
9. Chen, J.-S., and Hwang, H.-Y., “Noise Reduction for the Bogie of Mass Rapid Train,” 
SAE, SAE Paper Number: 2011-01-0499, April 12, 2011.  
10. 陳嘉勳、林宏儒，「車輛動態分析與疲勞破壞預測」，中華民國第十六屆車輛工程學術
研討會，論文編號: A1-022，台北科技大學車輛工程系，台灣台北，中華民國一百年
十一月十一日. 
11. Chen, J.-S., and Hwang, H.-Y., “Vehicle Dynamic Analysis and Fatigue Prediction,” 2011 
International Conference on Mechatronics and Applied Mechanics, Hong-Kong, Dec. 27-28, 
2011. (Submitted) 
12. Quoc, N., Hwang, H.-Y., and Chen, J.-S., “Correlation of Vickers Hardness with other 
Mechanical Properties of Sub-zones of Resistance Spot Weld of SPCC Steel,” 2011 
International Conference on Mechatronics and Applied Mechanics, Hong-Kong, Dec. 27-28, 
2011. (Submitted) 
13. 林宏儒，車輛動態分析與疲勞破壞預測(Vehicle Analysis of Flexible-body Dynamic 
Simulation and Fatigue Predition)，2011。 
 

 Vehicle Dynamic Analysis and Fatigue Prediction 
Jia-Shiun Chen1, a and Hsiu-Ying Hwang1,b  
1
 Department of Vehicle Engineering, National Taipei University of Technology,  
Taipei, 10608, Taiwan 
a
chenjs@ntut.edu.tw, 
b
hhwang@ntut.edu.tw 
Keywords: dynamic simulation, flexible-body dynamics, fatigue 
Abstract. This research was to predict the life of vehicle components on an uneven random road. 
Flexible-body dynamic simulation was used for dynamic simulation and stress recovery. Based on the 
stress obtained from dynamic simulation, a fatigue life prediction was implemented. This process 
combined dynamic simulations and finite element analyses (FEA), including the interaction between 
dynamic forces and structure deformation. Comparing with traditional approach, dynamic and FEA 
calculation performed in sequence and separately, the proposed process could obtain more accurate 
structure stresses and better fatigue life prediction. With that, the production development time and 
cost could be significantly reduced. 
Introduction 
Failure is always one of the major concerns for the automotive manufacture. Ohchida [1] pointed 
out that based on the statistic, 60% of the machine equipment failure was caused by the components’ 
fatigue. The components of vehicle constantly under cyclic loading, especially on the rough roads, 
could cause the components fatigue failures. Therefore, developing a reliable method to predict the 
potential fatigue failures of vehicle component is a highly desirable. The majority of automotive 
manufactures use empirical methods or dynamic simulation to predict the loadings of components. 
Then, FEA is carried out to predict the fatigue failure. This process does not consider the effects of the 
dynamic loads and structure deformations. The dynamic loading, while the vehicle is running, could 
cause the structure deformation and further change the dynamic loading of components. A rigid body 
system for dynamic analysis would not be sufficient. The loading changes should be taken into 
account in the structure analysis. A flexible-body dynamic simulation considers the structure 
deformation during the dynamic simulation and can predict more accurate loading of vehicle 
component and structure life. In this study, ADAMS flexible-body dynamics was used to perform 
dynamic simulation, and the stress was retrieved from simulation for fatigue calculation. 
The remaining sections are as follows: the theoretical background about the flexible-body 
dynamics and fatigue analysis; the simulation model with details of key components; the result 
simulation and finally conclusions. 
Theory Background  
Equations of Flexible-body Dynamics. The linear deformation of structure can be represented by 
the combination of mode shapes, as Eq. 1. 
1



M
i i
i
u q          (1) 
Where ϕ is the mode shape, and q is the mode coordinate. 
The equations of motion with Lagrange multiplier can be written as following. 
1
2

      
 
    
         
    
T T
g
M
M M K f D Q    (2) 
 Components. The vehicle model included three primary parts, the body frame, the front 
suspension, and the rear suspension, Fig. 2. The total weight of vehicle was 423 kg. All the 
components were modeled as flexible-body except the tires and added weights. The tires were 
simulated as force elements in dynamic simulation [5]. The connecting joint and forces applied 
between vehicle components were presented in Fig. 2 [6,7]. The material property of frame and 
suspension was shown in Table 1 [8]. 
 
 
Figure 2. Assembled vehicle and connecting joints and forces 
 
Table 1. Material property 
 Steel 
1015 
Steel 
1018 
Elastic Modulus [Mpa] 207000 
Poisson Ratio 0.29 
Shear Modulus [Mpa] 80232.558 
Density [ton/mm
3
] 7.9E-009 
Ultimate Strength [Mpa] 414 455 
 
Tire and Road Models. In dynamic simulation, tire is modeled as a special force element. 
ADAMS provides several tire modules, which includes the tire mass and inertia. Depending on the 
simulation conditions and purposes, user can choose the one fitting his requirement. In this study, 
Fiala tire model, which was designed for vertical and longitudinal motion, was applied in simulation. 
The tire parameters were presented in Table 2. ADAMS supports 2D and 3D road surface formats. A 
2D surface was applied in this study, Fig. 3. 
 
Table 2. Tire parameters 
 Front tire Rear Tire 
Tire model Fiala tire type 
Mass 10kg 11kg 
Moment of inertia Ixx, Iyy: 8E5, Izz: 16E5 [kg-mm
2
] 
Tire radius 254mm 280mm 
Tread width 200mm 200mm 
Simulation and Result  
In simulation, the vehicle was modeled in a straight run, with two different road conditions, flat 
surface and random uneven surface. Although, the vehicle was speed-up from stop, the data for 
analysis was collected at constant speed, 50 km/h. The data collection time was 15 second. In this 
study, several thicknesses of frame tube were applied in simulation. There were 1mm, 1.5mm, 2mm, 
and 2.5mm. 
Bushing  
Spring and damper 
Revolute joint 
Ball joint 
  
Figure 5. Joint locations 
 
Table 4. Joint forces 
ddd
 Difference : 21.7%
i
 
 Rear suspension right and 
left joint average force[N] 
Flexible-body model 623.01 
Rigid-body model 758.09 
 
Beside the suspension and tire elements, the flexible element used in the vehicle structure could 
also absorb dynamic energy on the uneven road simulation. So, the joint force of flexible-body model 
was smaller than that of rigid-body model in simulation 
Fatigue Analysis. Several thicknesses of frame tube were applied in simulation model for fatigue 
analysis. There were 1mm, 1.5mm, 2mm, and 2.5mm. The stress of maximum stress grid point was 
retrieved and plotted as a stress-time curve. Fig. 6 showed the stress history of 2.5 mm tube thickness 
in 10 second simulation at constant speed, 50 km/h. 
Rainflow counting method was applied in the stress history curve, and the stress cycle number 
could be accumulated for fatigue analysis. Fig. 7 showed stress range and cumulative cycle number of 
different frame tube thickness. 
With stress cycle and material S-N diagram, the structure life could be predicted by Miner rule. 
With 10 second as a simulation cycle, Table 5 presented the structure life of different frame tube 
thickness in simulation cycle number. 
Conclusions  
In conventional method, the vehicle body was simulated as rigid-body in dynamic analysis. Based 
on that, the component load was applied for FEA to calculate the structure stress. In this research, a 
flexible-body was proposed to use for the dynamic analysis. The advantage of flexible-body dynamic 
simulation is that structure stresses are considered in dynamic simulation. The dynamic behavior 
includes the structure deformation and provides more realistic and better predictions, especially for 
not very rigid types of vehicle structures. 
In rigid-body dynamic simulation, the dynamic energy passed from the tire running through 
uneven road could only be absorbed and damped by tires, springs and dampers in suspension, and 
bushings. In flexible-body dynamic simulation, the structure could also absorb part of energy. So, the 
loads at joints were smaller comparing with the loads obtained in rigid-body simulation. 
In fatigue analysis, the major damage appeared in the structure connecting points where two or 
more structure members were welded together. Structure design and assembly should be reinforced 
around those points to increase the expected life.  
The vehicle fatigue life test is costly and time consuming. Flexible-body dynamic simulation could 
assist the life prediction of vehicle structures and components. The design cycle using the proposed 
analysis tool is shorter and can save the vehicle development cost and time. 
Force 
direction 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
