1 
 
1. Introduction 
Today, Web environment is rapidly evolving. The competition of e-commerce is 
getting fiercer and customers are becoming more demanding. In the era of web 2.0, 
customers are looking for ways to leverage each other’s expertise, understand what 
they are purchasing, and make more informed and accurate purchase decisions. 
Retailers need to understand their customers and what they expect out of the shopping 
experience to develop a collaborative “social commerce” strategy [1]. 
To achieve the benefits of disintermediation and social commerce environment 
for collaborative activities, the challenges reside in effective collaboration and 
resources sharing among upstream suppliers, partners, and downstream customers. In 
this research, we aim to establish an ontology driven social commerce platform 3WSP 
aligned with REST （ Representational State Transfer ） [2] implemented 
Service-Oriented Architecture（SOA）for cloud computing to confront the challenges. 
And serve the Web as an open environment, everyone can freely use and join to 
3WSP. 
The 3WSP is expected to provide an effective platform for both buyers and 
sellers to transact with uniform product information. The 3WSP enables not only 
suppliers to focus on their core competency but also end-users to gain personal and 
rich online shopping experience. 
2. Literature Review 
2.1. Cloud Computing 
The concept of cloud computing is that, instead of hosting all applications and 
data in the client-side, they can now be load balanced on many different servers in 
many different locations. In essence, cloud computing allows practitioners to expand 
and contract their costs in direct proportion to their needs. Simultaneously, Service- 
Oriented Architecture（SOA）is a strategic framework of technology that allows all 
interested systems, inside and outside of an organization, to expose and access 
well-defined services, and information bound to those services, that may be further 
abstracted to process layers and composite applications for solution development. 
Thus, using SOA to develop the platform in the cloud so that practitioners have the 
ability to extend their SOA outside of the enterprise firewall to cloud computing 
providers, seeking the benefits already described [1]. 
2.2. Service-oriented architecture（SOA） 
SOA represents a model in which functionality is decomposed into small, distinct 
units or services, which can be distributed over a network and can be combined 
together and reused to create business applications [2]. These services communicate 
with each other by passing data from one service to another, or by coordinating an 
activity between two or more services. The concepts of SOA are often seen as built 
3 
 
services based on the Internet and a more flexible paradigm to implement social 
commerce. By using the RESTful web services can be an easy way to build a cloud 
environment. Meanwhile, ontology can be used in a constructed to integrate the 
dispersed web resources. UNSPSC and WordNet can also assist the semantic problem 
among the heterogeneous platform. Therefore, this paper aims to build a SOA and 
Ontology Enabled Social Commerce Platform, 3WSP, in the cloud to resolve the 
interoperability of Web. 
3. Research Methodology 
The main objective of this research is to establish a social commerce platform in 
the cloud using REST-implemented SOA and ontology to synergize suppliers and 
empower users in searching for personalized desired merchandise. One of the core 
enabling technology used in this platform is the ontology-based knowledge engine, 
which plays vital role in the success of 3WSP as shown in Figure 1.  
 
Figure 1 Ontology enable 3WSP model [9] 
Ontology furnishes a structural conceptual model of the e-commerce vertical and 
quasi-horizontal domains. The product and service knowledge encapsulated in 
ontology enable parametric search and navigation for prospective buyers to discover 
desirable products and determine pricing and availability. Furthermore, knowledge 
about users（buyers and sellers）can be modeled by an ontology as well in addition to 
product and service knowledge. By using user preference knowledge（e.g, user proﬁle 
or personalization）, queries can be customized relative to the user’s experience and 
interests（e.g, preferred style of a set of furniture）. Ontologies are also needed in 
social commerce for conducting transactions. Knowledge of suppliers’ organizational 
structure, history, track records, and products and services can be used to actually 
pave the path for smooth transaction among buyers and sellers directly. 
In this research, we assume that the categorization of the suppliers’ products had 
5 
 
standard before they can be incorporated into the product ontology of the 3WSP. As 
mentioned in Section 2, there are methodologies for converting UNSPSC hierarchy 
scheme to UNSPSC ontology. In this research we adopted Perl script（convert.pl）
developed by Michel Klein [12] for performing the translation of the UNSPSC 
standard to an RDF schema. 
The 3WSP consists of three main components: 1）Data Access Layer which is set 
for accessing and storing the information and resources, 2）Knowledge Engine which 
is based on the proposed 3WSP Product Ontology serves as a knowledge base for 
3WSP and 3）User Interface which renders the front-end user interfaces for each user. 
The details regarding the framework of 3WSP are illustrated in Figure 4. 
 
Figure 4 Framework of 3WSP 
4. Implementation 
Two implementation scenarios are used to demonstrate the 3WSP’s capability in 
accomplishing the research objectives: 1）providing an effective platform for both 
buyers and sellers to transact with uniform product information and 2）suppliers can 
focus on their core competency while end-users enjoy personalized shopping 
experience 
Scenario 1: Suppliers’ Perspective 
MakingSofa, Inc. is a furniture manufacture company specializes in producing 
sofas. To confront this compete-intensively e-commerce environment, MakingSofa, 
Inc. should produce every kind of furniture to fill the customers’ desires. However, 
this company found out that even though their products are good enough to sell 
greatly, they had not been fully discovered on the Internet for every desired customer. 
Hence, MakingSofa, Inc. thought if they can use the Collective Intelligence of the 
7 
 
when he back home. In the thousands of online markets, he finally found 3WSP is a 
website that can fulfill his desires according to the advantages of 3WSP: personalized 
recommendation, integrated product information from different suppliers, 3D decorate 
room service. 
While Jason login 3WSP, the website asks him to build his personal profile. This 
User Profile Page asks the preferred color tone style of customer（for example: Warm 
Color Style or Cool Color Style）, and the Hate Colors for more detail of the 
preference of the customer. Therefore, Jason chose the Warm Color Style as the Love 
style and Pink color for the Hate color. 
After Jason completes his personal profile, the website will switch the web page 
to the Store Page that contains the personalized recommendation of 3WSP according 
to the back-end 3WSP Knowledge base system. The products are all Warm Color 
Style furniture but the pinks because this result came from Jason’s preference. The 
rest may be deduced by analogy, if Jason designates the red color as the Hate color, 
the first two products would not appear in the recommend list. Furthermore, Figure 5 
shows the inferring process of recommendation. While suppliers upload their product 
to 3WSP Product Ontology, according to Style Ontology, Inference Engine will 
determine what the styles of the product are. Finally, Query Engine will query the 
recommended product based on the user profile. 
 
Figure 5 Inferring process of recommendation 
In the Store Page, Jason chose the furniture from the recommendation and add 
click the “Add” button to add the 3D object to the 3D room as shown in Figure 6. 
While clicking the button named “Application” of navigation in the 3D scenes 
9 
 
reducing the capital expenditure in the IT department in the enterprises.  
For both customers and suppliers to transact with uniform product information, 
this research adopted UNSPSC to be a promising foundation for the creation of 3WSP 
Product Ontology. Simultaneously, the utility of eCl@ss ontology properties and 
WordNet ontology can enrich the semantic knowledge in 3WSP. Additionally, through 
the inference engine and query engine in the knowledge base system, the further 
knowledge can be extracted from the existing knowledge so that 3WSP can provides 
the further personalized services for the users  
To validate the viability and feasibility of the proposed approaches, an online 
virtual furniture store was developed as the example. From the suppliers’ perspectives, 
3WSP enables the suppliers easily to join the platform and provide their competing 
product to fill custom orders. In the other hand, customers are enabled to seamlessly 
pick up furniture products from different suppliers and gain the personalized 
recommendation to enrich the shopping experience. 
Limitations 
An ontology as a knowledge back-end for an application has great potential as an 
alternative to traditional knowledge driven application architectures especially in the 
competitive e-commerce field. However, still some limitations exist during the 
execution and implementation of 3WSP. 
One of the main characteristics of ontology is reusability. Nevertheless, different 
ontology designers or information providers may use different names for the same 
kinds of entities; even worse, they may use the same names for different kinds to 
represent the knowledge in the same field. Thus, this research adopts one of the most 
used products and services categorization standard - UNSPSC and builds the 
UNSPSC-based 3WSP Product Ontology as the central ontology for enterprises to 
follow. Indeed, UNSPSC is a continuously updated categorization, even though 
UNSPSC cannot be expected to cover full spectrum of related knowledge. 
This research assumes that the 3WSP Product ontology serves as a foundation 
for data mark-up by the interested enterprises. It is because the information can be 
aggregated and combined easily due to the characteristics of the RDF model, and the 
integrated information can be understood if all information providers have used the 
same ontology to mark up their data. 
6. Future works 
The SOA-based 3WSP has great potential to easily integrate and interoperable 
systems. According to the inferring capability Knowledge Base System, it is 
potentially to develop the semantic search application engine. RESTful Web Service 
11 
 
Reference 
[1] D. S. Linthicum, Cloud Computing and SOA Convergence in Your Enterprise: 
A Step-by-Step Guide: Addison-Wesley Professional, 2009. 
[2] M. Bell, Introduction to Service-Oriented Modeling’, Service-Oriented 
Modeling: Service Analysis, Design, and Architecture, 3 ed.: Wiley & Sons, 
2008. 
[3] R. Battle and E. Benson, "Bridging the semantic Web and Web 2.0 with 
Representational State Transfer （REST）," Web Semantics: Science, Services 
and Agents on the World Wide Web, vol. 6, pp. 61-69, 2008. 
[4] ConnectSoft. （2009, 1029）. Service Discoverability for RESTful services. 
Available: http://www.connectsoft.ca/blog/?p=41 
[5] Mohammad Zarifi Eslami, et al., "Service Tailoring: Towards Personalized 
Homecare Services " presented at the 5th International Conference on 
Software and Data Technologies Athens, Greece, 2010  
[6] Z. Cui, et al., "An ontology-based approach to eCatalogue management," Bt 
Technology Journal, vol. 21, pp. 76-83, Oct 2003. 
[7] Mohammad Zarifi Eslami, et al., "Service Tailoring: Towards Personalized 
Homecare Services " presented at the 5th International Conference on 
Software and Data Technologies Athens, Greece, 2010  
[8] Z. Cui, et al., "An ontology-based approach to eCatalogue management," Bt 
Technology Journal, vol. 21, pp. 76-83, Oct 2003. 
[9] L. Obrst, et al., "Ontologies for corporate web applications," AI Mag., vol. 24, 
pp. 49-62, 2003. 
[10] R. M. Colomb and M. N. Ahmad, "Merging ontologies requires interlocking 
institutional worlds," Applied Ontology, vol. 2, pp. 1-12, 2007. 
[11] K. Kotis, et al., "Towards automatic merging of domain ontologies: The 
HCONE-merge approach," Web Semantics: Science, Services and Agents on 
the World Wide Web, vol. 4, pp. 60-79, 2006. 
[12] M. Klein. （2002, 1109）. DAML+OIL and RDF Schema representation of 
UNSPSC. Available: http://www.few.vu.nl/~mcaklein/unspsc/ 
 
 
論 文 被 接 受 發 表 之 大 會 證 明 文 件  
From: Robert C. H. Hsu [mailto:chh@chu.edu.tw]  
Sent: Wednesday, July 28, 2010 8:23 AM 
To: iecjsu@saturn.yzu.edu.tw; s968902@mail.yzu.edu.tw; inter.recoba20@163.com; simonfan@saturn.yzu.edu.tw; ri
verchen@rtlab.cs.nthu.edu.tw; sofien.beji@laposte.net; windbug@daejin.ac.kr;Saaidal.Azzuhri@nicta.com.au; yanron
gding700@gmail.com; stand_fucai@126.com; yumengkk@qq.com; simen.hagen@iu.hio.no; 
satheesh; yangming@chd.edu.cn; ml_0902@163.com; wenchangshi@gmail.com 
Cc: Hussain Sajid; parkjonghyuk1@hotmail.com; Deok Gyu Lee; Sang-Soo Yeo 
Subject: Instructions for final paper preparation and registration of UIC 2010 workshop papers 
 
Dear authors, 
 
First of all, thank you very much for publishing your paper in UIC 2010. 
The UIC 2010 (The 7th International Conference on Ubiquitous Intelligence 
and Computing) will be held in Xi'an, 26-29, October, 2010. 
 
Here are some information for you to prepare final camera ready and conference registration. 
 
1. The deadline for final paper uploading and registration is August 8th, 2010. 
2. The final paper should be in IEEE CS format. 
(http://www.ieee.org/web/publications/pubservices/confpub/AuthorTools/conferenceTemplates.html.) 
3. Page limit is 6 pages, two extra pages is permitted with additional charge. 
4. Instructions (Author kits) for final paper uploading will be sent to you from IEEE and will be posted on 
the UIC 2010 web soon. 
5. For registration, please go to http://www.nwpu.edu.cn/uic2010/Registration/ 
6. More information of UIC 2010 can be checked at http://www.nwpu.edu.cn/uic2010/ 
 
Congratulations again for your excellent work and we look forward to meeting you in Xi'an, China. 
 
Best regards, 
Jong-Hyuk Park, Sajid Hussain, Sang-Soo Yeo, Workshop Co-Chairs, SSDU 2010 
Zhiwen Yu, Program Chair, UIC 2010 
Robert C. H. Hsu, Workshop Chair, UIC 2010 
  
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/25
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 基於Web導向架構(WOA)及AJAX開發本體論驅動之互通性協同商務資訊平台
計畫主持人: 蘇傳軍
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-155-068- 學門領域: 資訊系統
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
