 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
Improvements to the Cadabia Database 
 
計畫編號：NSC 94-2213-E-194-024- 
執行期限 94 年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：貝若爾   
地址中正大學資訊工程研究所 
dan@cs.ccu.edu.tw 電話 (05)272-0411(33103) 
 
一、中文摘要 
 
關鍵詞：類別代數、分散式物件導向資料庫、「是
一個」層級架構、物件識別串列。 
 
Abstract 
 
這個專案計畫是基於之前幾個 Cadabia 資料
庫 系 統 的 國 科 會 專 案 計 畫
(NSC93-2213-E-194-010,NSC92-2213-E194-019,N
SC91-2213-E194-022)。這個專案計畫改進了在那
些計畫所發展的 Cadabia 資料庫實作部份。我們在
功能上和速度上做了改進，並增加工具來翻譯成
或翻譯自其它語意網的格式。 
Cadabia 資料庫是一個分散式物件導向資料
庫，相似於語意網資料庫。然而，除了類似 OWL 
ontology (也就是資料型別檢查)，它允許在 XML
文件或是 SQL 資料庫內永久儲存。這資料庫是由
Java 所實作出來，而且是為一個開放原始碼計畫。 
 
This project is based on several previous NSC 
projects for the Cadabia database system (NSC 
93-2213-E-194-010,NSC92-2213-E194-019,NSC91-
2213-E194-022).  This project makes improvements 
to the implementation of the Cadabia database that 
was developed in those projects.   We made 
improvements in functionality and speed, and added 
tools to translate to/from other Semantic Web formats.   
The Cadabia database is a distributed 
object-oriented database which is similar to Semantic 
Web databases.  However, besides the OWL-like 
ontology (i.e. data typing), it permits persistent 
storage in either XML documents or SQL databases.  
The database is implemented in Java, and it is being 
made an open-source project. 
 
Keywords: Class algebra, distributed object-oriented 
database, IS-A hierarchy, OidList 
 
二、緣由與目的 Original Purpose 
  The purpose of this project was to implement a 
distributed database based on the concepts of class 
algebra, where all query results are within a known 
class.  The normalized class algebra queries are also 
used for class definitions and proofs of containment.   
The first phase of the project implemented the 
kernel classes, including “ClassDefn”, 
“RelationDefn” and “AttributeDefn”, and their 
relations, such as “extent” and “subclasses”.  The 
second phase involves adding in the definitions of 
users and permissions.  The third phase is to add in 
transactions, both hard and soft.  These transactions 
will make use of 3-phase locking for the distributed 
relations.  The fourth phase will develop components 
that can be inserted in XHTML documents to 
edit/display backend data via Cadabia queries and 
assignments.   
 
三、研究報告應含的內容 Research Details and 
Discussion of Results 
 Class algebra is based on First-Degree 
Entailment, a propositional logic which allows one to 
find all proofs of a formula and its complement.  We 
use the sorted leaves of these proof trees as a normal 
form, similar to the use of a Karnaugh map, rather than 
a complete truth table.  This normal form creates an 
efficient means of comparing formulae for 
containment and equivalence.  Although class algebra 
has an input “object identifier” and an output variable 
which is either a 4-valued logic value or a fuzzy truth 
interval, the queries act like propositional logic since 
the variables are implicit. 
 Each database expands the core ontology of 
class algebra to include user-defined classes and 
relations.  The object identifiers are unique 
network-wide identifiers that are based on the 
backend servers or middle-layer servers.  A central 
authority also uniquely identifies users so that their 
access to data can be controlled by user lists which are 
calculated from class algebra queries.  This creates a 
flexible environment for defining security policies for 
Cadabia objects.  Although Cadabia cannot be 
responsible for security of files which are accessible 
via other means than Cadabia queries, in the future, 
with encrypted hard drives, it will be more practical to 
make Cadabia be the only means of accessing these 
files.  Then it will be possible to have personalized 
service with all personal preferences stored in 
