Introduction 
Semiconductor nanocrystals (NCs) have attracted much attention during the past few years.  
Among them CdS is one of the most interested because it is of great interest for applications in 
optoelectronics, photovoltaics, catalysis, and biological sensing. 
Recently, several groups have explored the preparation of CdS NCs using thiourea and 
cadmium salts as reactants in variety of solvent at lower temperatures.  Yu et al. called this 
synthetic route as a solvothermal process by which the morphology and particle sizes of 
nanocrystalline CdS can be controlled.[1]  G Carrot et al. synthesized nanosized CdS clusters 
through the reaction of thiourea with Cd(OAc)2.[2]  They used polyester chains with a thiol end 
group as a covalently attached colloid stabilizer.  Y. Wada et al. prepared CdS NCs by the 
microwave-assisted reaction of Cd(OAc)2 with thiourea in N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF) 
without using any stabilizer and capping agent.[3]  Y Chen, synthesized CdS NCs through the 
reaction of Cd(OAc)2 with thiourea in N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF) using poly(styrene-co-
maleic anhydride) random copolymer as the stabilizer.[4]  R. He et al. prepared poly(N-vinyl-2-
pyrrolidone) (P2VP)-capped ZnS, CdS NCs by a microwave method form Zn(OAc)2 and 
Cd(OAc)2.[5]  In the above studied the PL spectra of the CdS NCs prepared shows, more or less, 
the Stokes shifted red fluorescence band in the region of 550 to 800 nm.  This band arises from 
the radiative recombination of trapped charge carriers in some surface defect states.[6-9] 
In the present research we synthesized colloidal CdS NC solutions by heating Cd(OAc)2 
and thiourea in DMF with PEO as the stabilizer.  The resulting CdS colloids exhibit superior 
stability that no precipitation forms for weeks at room temperature.  For our samples, the PL 
emission band is independent on the amount of PEO added and the ration of Cd2+/S2-.  In the PL 
spectra of CdS colloids the narrow fluorescence band is at ca. 450 nm, which is attributed to 
excitation fluorescence. 
 2 
oven. 
Results and Discussion 
DMF is known to a solvent that can disperse CdS NCs, given a stable colloidal solution [3, 
10].  The photographs in Fig.1 compare the stability of colloidal CdS NCs in DMF with and 
without adding PEO as the stabilizer during the preparation.  The colloidal CdS solution, which 
was prepared by the solvothermal reaction in the absence of stabilizing polymer in DMF, was 
turbid yellow and precipitated completely after 12 hours of settling.  With adding PEO as the 
stabilizer during the reaction, the resulting CdS NC colloid was transparent with a pale yellow 
color and fairly stable even stored at room temperature for 3 weeks.  Additionally, we have tried 
to add PEO to the resulting CdS colloidal solution, prepared in the absence of PEO.  The CdS 
NCs precipitated in hours, too, This indicates that PEO is not only a stabilizer but play an 
important role in the solvothermal reaction of Cd(OAc)2 and thiourea; we will discuss this later. 
We found that the solvothermal reaction was affected significantly by light.  When the 
reaction proceeded in a flask in exposure to daylight, the PL intensity of the colloid CdS solution 
was only one fifth as high as the sample prepared in the flask wrapped with aluminum foil.  Fig. 
2(a) shows the differences.  Photographs in Fig. 2(b) are the colloidal CdS solutions prepared in 
the dark (left vial) and under daylight (right vial) taken under illumination provided by a 360 nm 
UV lamp.  As shown, under UV irradiation the transparent yellow CdS solution emitted blue 
color. 
The evolutions of absorption spectra of colloidal CdS solution as a function of heating time 
are presented in Fig. 3.  The reaction consisted in mixing PEO (200 mg, 1.0 % w/v) with 
Cd(OAc)2 (5×10-4M) followed by the addition of thiourea in 20 mL of DMF.  Aliquots were 
taken from the reaction mixture at different times and analyzed by UV –VIS spectroscopy.  The 
absorbance in UV spectra is proportional to the number of particles formed, and the size of CdS 
 4 
agglomerates the spatial distribution of CdS NCs exhibits a certain direction due to the effect of 
PEO encapsulation.  The similar phenomena has also been observed by Y Yang et al. [11]  They 
synthesized CdS NCs from coprecipitation method in water using CdCl2 and Na2S as the 
precursors and PEO as the stabilizer. 
The average particle sizes for each preparation are as follows: 5.4±0.52 nm (PEO = 50 mg); 
4.4±0.47 nm (PEO = 100 mg); and 4.4±0.67 nm (PEO = 200 mg).  The size obtained form TEM 
image is larger than that estimated from UV-vis sprtra using Brus’s equation.  This is because 
that in calculation we take the onset wavelength, which is corresponding to the largest particle 
size.  The average particle size for the sample prepared using 50 mg of PEO is smaller than that 
using 100 and 200 mg of PEO.   
Conclusions 
We have demonstrated that stable CdS NC colloids could be prepared in terms of 
solovthermal reaction of Cd(OAc)2 and thiourea in DMF, using PEO as the stabilizer.  PEO is 
not only the stabilizer but provides a confined nanospace for the growth of CdS NCs.  The 
colloidal solutions emit bright blue color under irradiation of UV lamp.  The kinetic study 
reveals that the higher EO/Cd2+ ratio leads to smaller nanoparticles.  It is worth to note that 
regardless of EO/Cd2+ ratio and Cd2+/ S2- the PL spectra of the resulting CdS solution are similar, 
in which only a sharp peak with a narrow FWHM is shown in the blue region. 
Acknowledgements.  This work was supported by the National Science Council, Taipei, R.O.C. 
(NSC94-2216-E-006-023).  
 6 
Figures and Figure Captions 
(a) Settled for 12 hours (b) Settled for 3 weeks Fig. 1  
Fig. 1.  Preparation of colloidal CdS NCs by the solvothermal reaction of thiourea with 
Cd(OAc)2 in the absence of stabilizing polymer (a) and in the presence of PEO.  The 
photographs were taken under daylight.  [Cd(OAc)2] = 5×10-4M; [thiourea] = 10-3 M; PEO = 0.1 
%w/v (200 mg of PEO in 20 mL of DMF). 
 
Fig. 2
 
Fig. 2.  The effect of light on the solvothermal reaction of thiourea.  (a) Comparison of PL 
spectra of the sample prepared under daylight (dash line) and that prepared in the dark (solid 
line).  (b) The Luminescence image taken under a UV lamp at 306 nm; the brighter sample was 
prepared in the flask prevent from light.  Cd(OAc)2  [Cd(OAc)2] = 5×10-4M; [thiourea] = 10-3 M; 
PEO = 0.2 %w/v (400 mg of PEO in 20 mL of DMF). 
 8 
Fig. 5
 
Fig. 5.  PL spectra of colloidal CdS NC solution at different Cd2+:S2- molar ratio.  Solid line: 
Cd2+:S2- = 1:2; short-dash line: Cd2+:S2- = 1:1; long-dash line: Cd2+:S2- = 1:0.5.  [Cd(OAc)2] = 
5×10-4M; [thiourea] = 10-3 M; 20 mL of DMF. 
 
 
Fig. 6.  (a) TEM of CdS NCs prepared by the solvothermal reaction of thiourea with Cd(OAc)2 
in the presence of PEO.  The scale bar is 20 nm.  [Cd(OAc)2] = 5×10-4M; [thiourea] = 10-3 M; 
PEO = 0.025 %w/v (50 mg of PEO in 20 mL of DMF).  (b) Histogram for the size CdS 
nanoparticles, obtained from TEM. 
 10 
