network. As shown in Fig. 1, the channel utilization rate is low. 
This is because that guard time is proportional to propagation 
delay. Due to long propagation delay, guard time in UWA 
networks is exceedingly long. Wasting time to wait for guard 
time induces extremely low channel utilization. Particularly 
when node density increases, the problem is more severe. Low 
channel utilization limits the application and scale of 
underwater acoustic networks. 
 
Figure 1. Transmissions of TDMA with guard time and idle time slots 
 
 
 
Secondly, when a station has no data to transmit, its time slot 
is free but other station can not use it. This causes low channel 
utilization and long waiting delay. For the delay-sensitive 
applications in underwater acoustic networks, the long delay is 
a problem. Finally, TDMA requires time synchronization, but 
the overhead of time synchronization is expensive to UWA 
networks 
Frequency division multiple access (FDMA) divides the 
band into sub-band. Each station use specific sub-band to 
transmit signal without interference with other stations. Due to 
the severe limited bandwidth and vulnerability of narrowband 
system to fading, FDMA system provides insufficient solution 
for UWA application. In the real test bed, Seaweb’ 99, the 
throughput of a FDMA network is only 50bit/s [7]. 
Code-division multiple access (CDMA) is a conflict-free 
multiple access technique. Multiple stations transmit 
simultaneously with different spreading code. Receiver can 
filter out noise and signals with spreading-code, and receives 
correct signal [8]. However, modulation by using spreading 
code reduces data transfer rate. Also, received power of each 
user needs to be equal. If the received power from each of the 
station is quite different, weak signals form distant stations will 
be drowned by strong signals by near stations. This is the near-
far problem [9]. CDMA networks require power control 
mechanisms. Transmitting power of each station is controlled 
by closed-loop centralized network; still UWA channel is more 
intractable than radio channel. In CDMA-based cell phone 
network networks, power control updates are sent 800 times 
per seconds with a light-speed propagation delay. Due to time-
vary channel with long propagation delay in UWA channel, it 
is very changeling to implementing power control mechanism 
in UWA networks. 
Slotted FAMA is a representative protocol of contention-
based protocols for UWA networks [10]. This contention-
based protocol is based on floor acquisition multiple accesses 
(FAMA) and adds time slot mechanism. FAMA combines both 
carrier sensing and handshakes between the source and 
receiver. During initial transmission dialogue, control packets, 
RTS and CTS, are exchanged between the source and the 
destination to avoid subsequent transmissions of other stations. 
When the destination receive packet correctly, it sends back 
acknowledgement to the source as fig. 2. This ARQ 
mechanism builds a reliable data link in a fallible UWA 
channel. Further, Slotted FAMA requires a synchronous 
network, which avoids long control packets needed in an 
asynchronous network. Unlike TDMA, Slotted FAMA still has 
the random access nature. Better than TDMA, Slotted FAMA 
has no idle time slot problem and improves the fairness. 
However, there still are three drawbacks in Slotted FAMA. 
First, large propagation delay of UWA causes long delay 
during handshake between source and destination. Second, 
similarly to TDMA, Slotted FAMA requires long time slot to 
wait for propagation. Thirdly, time synchronization is 
expensive and difficult to implement 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Transmissions of Slotted FAMA with a complete 
 handshake between A and C. 
 
Unlike TDMA, Ordered CSMA can avoid waiting for guard 
time and idle time slots. Time synchronization is also not 
required for Ordered CSMA.  
An example is shown in Figure 5. Node B transmitted packet 
number 2 after passing of packet number 1 from node A. If 
previous node has no packet to send, the next node will still 
start transmission after a very short period of timeout. This is 
different from TDMA to wait for idle time slots.  
 
 
Figure 5. Transmissions of Ordered CSMA with order number of packets. 
 
As shown in Fig. 6, Ordered CSMA improves the channel 
utilization by allowing multiple carriers from multiple sources 
to propagate at the same time. Unlike TDMA and slotted 
FAMA, nodes must wait for a carrier to propagate through the 
entire network.   
 
 
Figure 6. Multiple carriers spreading through the network without collisions. 
C. Transmission Order  
In a static network topology, the order of transmission is 
build easily. In a dynamic network topology, the order can be 
created dynamically by network coordinator. To create the 
order, a network coordinator may monitor signal from each 
node, and detect relative position of each node in the network.  
After acquiring relative position of each node, the network 
coordinator has to build a transmission order listσto minimize 
the propagation delay among nodes and maximize the 
efficiency of the network. The propagation delay is 
proportional to the distance between each stations, d(ci, cj). The 
propagation delay decreased with d(ci, cj). The total length of 
the route from the source to the destination with order listσ  
 
 
 
 
Try to find an order listσof the station that minimize the 
tour length is a Traversal Salesman Problem (TSP) ，which 
has been studied extensively [12]. There are several algorithms, 
for example, nearest neighbor, insertion, pairwise exchange,   
k-opt heuristic and V'-opt heuristic for TSP. The number of 
nodes in a single-hop network is often less than in a dozen in 
average. The near optimal solution for TSP problem in such 
number can be solved by modern computer with the 
appropriate algorithms. 
Network coordinators broadcast the order list after working 
out the solution for TSP. After the circular order of 
transmission distributed to each node, every nodes start taking-
turn transmission. Each node senses medium constantly. 
When a node sensed the medium idle after passing of carrier 
transmitted from previous node, the node immediately starts 
transmission. This is different from TDMA that each node 
must defer transmission for a long period until a signal 
propagating through the entire network.  
D.  Packet Trains Consist of ARQ and DATA Packets 
Ordered CSMA has a different ARQ from other MAC 
protocols. When a receiver correctly receive data frame, it 
defers its acknowledgement and waits for its turn to transmit. 
The station can combine the ACK and Data frame in one 
transmission. The sender waits for a round to receive the ACK. 
When sender does not receive ACK after a round, it triggers 
frame retransmission. The ARQ mechanism applied in this 
protocol ensures correct transmission in error-prone link layer 
for underwater acoustic networks. 
E.  Idle Timeout Counter 
The transmission in Ordered CSMA is triggered by a right 
data frame. If a station did not transmit a frame due to no 
packets in the buffer, the circular transmission stops. A simple 
solution is sending a short passing token to trigger next 
transmission. Wasting energy is however a problem, especially 
in UWA networks. The protocol also has an alternative way to 
solve the problem without wasting energy to sending a control 
packet. There is an idle timeout counter to trigger transmission 
in each node. Each station records the arrival time of each 
),(),( )1()(
1
1
)1()( σσσσ ccdccd N
N
i
ii +∑−
=
+
delay, and propagation delay [14]. The queuing delay is the 
duration of the sender waiting to transmitting. In TDMA and 
Slotted FAMA, the nodes must defer transmission for a long 
period until a signal propagating through the entire network.  
Especially in Slotted FAMA, the nodes need to wait for a long 
period for RTS/CTS handshakes before transmitting a data 
frame. In Ordered CSMA, the nodes only need to wait for 
carrier passing through. The lowest queuing delay is achieved 
in Ordered CSMA so that it is the lowest end-to-end delay 
protocol. 
Figure 8. Delays with the different protocols. 
 
B. Network Throughput 
 In this simulation, the saturation throughput of the network 
was investigated. Fig. 9 shows that the average throughput of 
the overall network in Ordered CSMA is higher than that of 
TDMA because of the decreased end-to-end delay. Ordered 
CSMA also is about five times higher than that of Slotted 
FAMA at least because of eliminating control packets. Unlike 
other protocols, we observe that throughput of Ordered CSMA 
increased with node density. The performance of TDMA is not 
relative to the number of nodes. The performance of Slotted 
FAMA is controlled by the contention window. 
 
Figure 9. Throughputs  with the different protocols 
 
 
V. CONCLUSION 
In this paper, a new MAC protocol for UWA networks has 
been proposed and investigated. Ordered CSMA employs a 
round-robin scheduling and CSMA to avoid collision without 
control packets. Also, Ordered CSMA decreases propagation 
delay from waiting for speeding through the entire network to 
neighbor nodes. Simulation results show that improvements of 
throughput, delay and fairness compared with TDMA and 
Slotted FAMA. 
Future work should be concentrated on an overall cross-layer 
architecture which is able to form a large-scale multi-hop 
network. Ordered CSMA is a MAC protocol lacking for ability 
of multi-hop routing. The protocols in network layer combined 
with Ordered CSMA should be developed. Other issues about a 
proper algorithm for decision of order, idle timeout counter and 
network maintenance is still needed to be refined. 
Ordered CSMA may not only be implemented in UWA 
network. The radio network with long propagation delay like 
satellite communication also can be investigated. Applied this 
protocol in a different application is also an interest research 
point. 
REFERENCES 
[1] F. Schill, U. R. Zimmer, and J. Trump, “Visible Spectrum Optical 
Communication and Distance Sensing for Underwater Applications,” In 
Proc. Australasian Conf. Robotics and Automation, 2004. 
[2] N. Farr et al. “Optical Modem Technology for Seafloor Observatories,” 
In Proc. IEEE OCEANS’05 Conf., Sept. 2005. 
[3]  J. A. Catipovic, “Performance limitations in underwater acoustic 
telemetry,”  IEEE J. Oceanic Eng., 15(3):205–216, Jul. 1990. 
[4] J Partan, J Kurose, BN Levine, “A survey of practical issues in 
underwater networks,” In Pro of the 1st ACM international workshop on 
Underwater networks, 2006 
[5] D. B. Kilfoyle and A. B. Baggeroer, “The state of the art in underwater 
acoustic telemetry,”  IEEE J. Oceanic Eng., 25(1):4–27, Jan. 2000. 
[6] G.A¸car and A.E.Adams, “ACMENet: an underwater acoustic sensor 
network for real-time environmental monitoring in coastal areas,” IEE 
Proc. Radar, Sonar, and Nav., 153(4):365–380, Aug. 2006. 
[7] J.Rice et al. “Evolution of Seaweb Underwater Acoustic Networking,” In 
Proc. IEEE Oceans 2000, volume 3, pages 2007–2017, Sept. 2000. 
[8] M. Stojanovic and L. Freitag, “Multi-channel Detection for Wideband 
Underwater Acoustic CDMA Communications,” IEEE J. Oceanic Eng., 
2006. 
[9] T.S.Rappaport, “Wireless Communications: Principles and Practice,” 
Prentice Hall, 1996. 
[10] M. Molins and M. Stojanovic, “Slotted FAMA: A MAC Protocol for 
Underwater Acoustic Networks,” In submitted to Proc. IEEE 
OCEANS’06 Conf., 2006. 
[11]  L. Kleinrock and F. A. Tobagi, “Packet switching in radio channels: part 
I carrier sense multiple-access modes and their throughput-delay 
characteristics,” IEEE trans. on commun., vol. COM-23, pp. 1400–1416, 
1975. 
[12] D. L. Applegate, R. E. Bixby, V. Chvátal and W. J. Cook, The Traveling 
Salesman Problem: A Computational Study, Princeton University Press. 
ISBN 978-0-691-12993-8.  
[13] F. Salva-Garau and M. Stojanovic. “Multi-cluster Protocol for Ad Hoc 
Mobile Underwater Acoustic Networks,” In Proc. of MTS/IEEE 
OCEANS. San Francisco, CA, Sep. 2003. 
[14] James F. Kurose and Keith W. Ross, Computer Networking: A Top-
Down Approach Featuring the Internet, Addison Wesley Press, ISBN 
978-9-861-54272-0 
 
