 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫期中進度報告 
整合學習活動之專案管理模型之建立 
A Project Management Model Incorporating Knowledge Learning 
Activities 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-035-097-MY3 
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 98 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：陳亭志   逢甲大學工業工程與系統管理學系 
計畫參與人員：黃恆瑋   逢甲大學工業工程與系統管理所 
 林道忠   逢甲大學工業工程與系統管理所 
 翁維澤   逢甲大學工業工程與系統管理所 
 李昆泰   逢甲大學工業工程與系統管理所 
 楊凱翔   逢甲大學工業工程與系統管理所 
 何宗翰   逢甲大學工業工程與系統管理所 
 
 
 
一、中文摘要 
 
知識管理已被探討了許多年，不過直到最
近才被導入至專案管理與基於專案的組織
中。儘管如此，專案的諸多特性(例如：有
限的時間與資源、壓力、高複雜度、新團
隊)使其特別適用於學習。專案學習或專案
知識管理有著七大類的問題。針對這些問
題，本計劃提出了五項的作法。在第一年
的進度中，本計劃完成了專案學習相關文
獻之收集與整理、專案管理知識深度評估
能力之建立、專案專業智能深度評估能力
之建立、專案學習、執行與管理活動之整
合、以及專案學習系統化程序之提出。在
第二年的進度中，我們應用於第一年所提
出的程序至一實際的電子商務應用系統的
研發專案，並使用多種量化與質化的指標
來衡量與比較專案學習的效果。在第三年
的進度中，我們進行後專案時期的專案學
習，而後修改相關的DBAP，以反映於第二
年末所建議的改進。此外，我們並架構了
一網路應用系統，除了具備基本的專案管
理功能之外，並整合之前所撰寫/修改的
DBAP，以提升運作的效率，並降低投資的
成本(扣除Microsoft Project 的成本)，便利
本模式的實際應用與推廣。 
 
關鍵詞：專案管理、知識管理、專案學習、
電子商務、績效評估、網路應用
系統 
 
Abstract 
 
Knowledge management (KM) has been 
studied for many years, but has not been 
introduced into project management (PM) 
and project-based organizations until 
recently. Even though, the various properties 
of a project (e.g. limited time and resources, 
pressure, high complexity, new team) make 
the project especially suitable for learning. 
However, there are numerous difficulties or 
problems associated with learning in a 
project. To tackle these problems, five 
treatments will be taken in this project. 
During the first year, we have finished the 
following tasks: literature review, 
establishing the capability to evaluate the 
depth of PM knowledge, establishing the 
capability to evaluate the depth of 
professional skills or knowledge, integrating 
project learning, execution, and management 
activities, and establishing a systematic 
procedure for guiding project learning. In the 
second-year project, the proposed 
methodology was applied to the development 
of an EC application system, so as to 
evaluate and compare the performance of 
project learning with several quantitative and 
 4
(Schindler & Eppler, 2003)。此外，有些專
案成員並不願意留下心得，原因可能是錯
誤的謙虛或擔心被懲罰。 
(7) 許多在專案執行中所學到的心得，在
專案完結時已記憶不清—所謂的專案健
忘症(projectamnesia)(Schindler & Eppler, 
2003)。更遑論將之應用到下一個專案中。 
針對這些問題，本計劃提出了五項的作
法： 
(1) 提出量化的指標來測量專案知識的
深度(depth)：首先，我們採用「專案成熟
度(project maturity)」或「專案能力分數
(project and program competency 
assessment tool (PCAT) score)」來測量一
項「專案管理知識」的深度。其次，一項
「專案專業智能」的深度則以「階層式的
Likert scale」來評估。由於一項專案專業
智能的深度未必能簡單地以「Likert scale」
來評估，因此我們先將該項專案專業智能
階層地向下分解至其之組成元素，然後以
「Likert scale」來評估各組成元素的深
度，最後予以向上整合。如此一來，我們
可以對各類的專案知識，全面性地、客觀
地評估其之深度。 
(2) 提出量化的指標來測量專案學習的
效果：我們以專案知識深度的平均提升程
度來衡量專案學習的效果。此指標亦可與
專案在成本(或時間)控制方面的績效作一
比較，以確認其之有效性。 
(3) 我們提出專案知識的「起始深度(the 
initiating depth) 」 與 「 完 結 深 度 (the 
terminating depth)」兩個名詞，可以串連
專案知識傳遞與專案學習。這樣的作法是
著眼於知識的需求面。由於我們主張各專
案知識之深度均需達其之「起始深度」，
方可開始專案，因此將迫使未達此要求的
專案成員去進行主動的學習。如此一來，
除了可以提升成員的參與度之外，還可以
增加專案知識庫被參考的頻率，這些都屬
於評量專案學習效果的指標。 
(4) 我們提出一個系統化的程序，包括
15 個步驟，整合了既有的專案學習模式
或方法，以提升專案學習的效果。 
(5) 所提出之程序亦整合了專案學習活
動、專案執行活動與專案管理活動。由於
一般的專案組織均無餘力去規劃與執行
專案學習活動，將專案學習活動與專案執
行或管理活動整合，在經濟上亦是較好的
作法。本研究所提出之程序將具有相當的
參考價值。 
 
二、研究方法與成果 
 
首先，本計劃完成了以下的工作項
目： 
(1) 專案學習相關文獻之收集與整理。 
(2) 專案管理知識深度評估能力之建
立，以及資料庫應用系統之建立(請參考
圖 1)。 
 
 
圖 1、專案管理知識深度評估子系統 
 
專案管理知識深度之評估結果則以蜘蛛
圖來圖示(請見圖 2)。 
 
 6
(insurable risk))，一方面可以在專
案開始執行前提升各項專業知識
的深度。 
步驟十一、行動後回顧：在每一項專案工
作完成後，實施行動後回顧。 
步驟十二、填寫學到的心得表單：有專案
成員離開時或專案完結時均應
填寫。 
步驟十三、專案回顧/稽核：專案完結後應
即進行專案回顧/稽核。專案回
顧包括各專案知識的深度的執
行後評估。專案稽核採取面對
面的會談方式，Schindler & 
Eppler(2003)建議由外來的專
案稽核者主持。目的是促進知
識的移轉。 
步驟十四、後控制：專案完結後由專案經
理比較各方面的預期與實際的
差異。採取非合作式的經驗紀
錄與專案狀態報表分析。目的
是評估專案的績效，並對未來
的專案提出建議。 
步驟十五、專案後評價：於專案完結一段
時間後由外來的評價單位進行
專案後評價。採取文件分析與
面對面的會談等方式。目的是
從錯誤中學習、產生最佳作
法、以及將專案知識移轉給第
三者。 
 
接著，本計劃完成了以下的工作項目： 
(1) 應用於第一年所提出的程序(僅包括 
專案規劃、執行、控制、完結等階段的專 
案學習活動)至一實際的(二階段的)電子 
商務應用系統的研發專案。如圖 4 所示。 
 
 
圖 4、電子商務應用系統研發專案 
 
(2) 使用Microsoft Project 專案管理軟體協
助專案的管理。 
(3) 應用於第一年所撰寫的DBAP 協助專
案學習活動的執行。 
(4) 估計各專案知識的起始深度：該專案分
兩階段，應分開估計。 
(5) 訂定第一階段的完結深度的目標，根據
所估計的第二階段的起始深度。 
(6) 執行與管理專案。 
(7) 衡量專案學習的效果：使用多種量化與
質化的指標，包括「專案知識深度的平均
提升程度」、「成員的參與度」、「專案
知識庫被參考的頻率」、「專案學習的額
外預算/花費」、「知覺績效」等。此外，
我們亦可以觀察經過專案的執行，組織的
知識存貨(資產)的成長情形。在該電子商務
應用系統的研發過程中，每一項專案工作
完成後均實施行動後回顧，要求專案成員
填寫學到的心得表單。專案成員離開專案
時亦需填寫。所有的學到的心得表單均被
匿名影印給同一組的專案成員，並要求每
位專案成員應針對其中較感興趣的3 篇提
出意見。專案完結後即進行專案回顧，採
取面對面的會談方式。為評估專案管理知
識學習之效果，我們於專案執行前後去測
量各專案的專案管理者之專案能力分數
(PCAT score)，而後求其平均值。結果顯示
該平均值由專案執行前的23%提升為專案
執行後的38%(請參考圖5)。此外，我們以
Likert五點尺度評估10 項專案人員認為最
重要的專業智能，在專案執行前後之平均
分數，其結果如圖6 所示。所有人員的專
業智能平均分數從專案執行前的3.6 分提
升至3.8 分。 
 
 
圖 5、專案能力分數之變化 
 
 8
aerospace projects,” International Journal of 
Project Management (21) 2003, pp:251-259. 
7. Carayannis, E. G., “The strategic 
management of technological learning in 
project/program management: the role of 
extranets, intranets and intelligent agents in 
knowledge generation, diffusion, and 
leveraging,” Technovation (18:11) 1998, 
pp:697-703. 
8. CGN & Associates Inc., “Project 
management maturity: A critical 
competence,” http://www.cgn.net/, 2004. 
9. Chambers, F. and Forth, I., “A recipe 
for planning a project: a novice manager’s 
guide to small project design”, International 
Journal of Educational Development (15:1) 
1995, pp:61-70. 
10. Damm, D., and Schindler, M., “Security 
issues of a knowledge medium for distributed 
project work,” International Journal of 
Project Management (20:1) 2002, pp:37-47. 
11. Fernie, S., Green, S. D., Weller, S. J., 
and Newcombe, R., “Knowledge sharing: 
Context, confusion and controversy,” 
International Journal of Project 
Management (21:3) 2003. 
12. Kamara, J. M., Anumba, C. J., and 
Carillo, P. M., “A CLEVER approach to 
selecting a knowledge management 
strategy,” International Journal of Project 
Management (20:3) 2002, pp:205-211. 
13. Kasvi, J. J. J., Vartiainen, M., and 
Hailikari, M., “Managing knowledge and 
knowledge competences in projects and 
project organizations,” International Journal 
of Project Management (21) 2003, 
pp:571-582. 
14. Kerzner H., Project Management - A 
Systems Approach to Planning, Scheduling, 
and Controlling, John Wiley and Sons Inc., 
New York, 1998. 
15. Kuppuswamy, S., Podikunju, B., and 
Devarajamma, S., “Digital library solutions 
for knowledge sharing and information 
retrieval of engineering drawings for R&D 
division of aerospace industry: a case study,” 
Pathways to Build Global Information 
Society 2004, pp:265-273. 
16. Love, P. E. D., Edum-Fotwe, F., and 
Irani, Z., “Editorial: management of 
knowledge in project environments,” 
International Journal of Project 
Management (21:3) 2003, pp:155-156. 
17. Nonaka, I., and Takeuchi, H., The 
Knowledge-creating Company, How 
Japanese Companies Create the Dynamics of 
Innovation, Oxford University Press, New 
York, 1995. 
18. Powell M., “Using a maturity 
assessment tool to benchmark project 
capability across the organization – getting 
value for money?” http://www.bppm.com/, 
2004. 
19. PMI, A Guide to the Project 
Management Body of Knowledge, Newtown 
Square, PA: Project Management Institute, 
2000. 
20. Quayle, M., “Project management in 
European aerospace plc: a case study,” 
Industrial Management & Data Systems 
(99:5) 1999, pp:221-226. 
21. Schindler, M., and Eppler, M. J., 
“Harvesting project knowledge: a review of 
project learning methods and success 
factors,” International Journal of Project 
Management (21) 2003, pp:219-228. 
22. Turner, J. R., “The role of pilot studies 
in reducing risk on projects and 
programmes,” International Journal of 
Project Management (23) 2005, pp:1-6. 
23. Van Donk, D. P., and Riezebos, J., 
“Exploring the knowledge inventory in 
project-based organisations: a case study,” 
International Journal of Project 
Management (23) 2005, pp:75-83. 
24. Waldron, C., and Dorrough, F., “Process 
line automation for the aerospace industry,” 
National Conference Publication - Institution 
of Engineers (2:94/11) 1994, pp:581-586. 
SCHEDULING A WAFER FABRICATION FACTORY WITH A FUZZY-NEURAL APPROACH
Tin-Chih Chen and Ming Chun Wu
Department of Industrial Engineering and Systems Management
Feng Chia University
Seatwen, Taichung City, 407, Taiwan
tolychen@ms37.hinet.net
Abstract
To further improve the performance of scheduling jobs
in a wafer fabrication factory, a fuzzy-neural approach is
proposed in this study. The fuzzy-neural approach is modi-
fied from the well-known FSVCT rule with three innovative
treatments. At first, the remaining cycle time of a job is es-
timated by applying Chen et al’s fuzzy-neural approach to
improve the estimation accuracy. Secondly, the components
of the FSVCT rule are normalized, and then the division
operator is applied instead of the traditional subtraction
operator to enhance the responsiveness of the rule. Thirdly,
the content of the fuzzy-neural approach can be tailored to
the wafer fabrication factory to be scheduled with two ad-
justment factors. To evaluate the effectiveness of the pro-
posed methodology, production simulation is also applied in
this study to generate some test data. According to experi-
mental results, the proposed methodology outperformed
nine existing approaches in reducing the cycle time aver-
ages and standard deviations. Besides, the fuzzy- neural
approach was also shown to be a Pareto optimal solution for
scheduling jobs in a wafer fabrication factory.
Keywords: wafer fabrication, scheduling, fuzzy, neural,
tailored, simulation.
1. INTRODUCTION
A wafer fabrication factory is a very complicated pro-
duction system. Typical characteristics of a wafer fabrica-
tion factory include: fluctuating demand, jobs with various
product types and priorities, un-balanced capacity, jobs’ 
reentrance to machines, hundreds of processing steps, al-
ternative machines with unequal capacity, shifting bottle-
necks, etc. Scheduling in a wafer fabrication factory be-
comes a very difficult task owing to these characteristics.
Many studies have shown that applying the general sched-
uling rules (such as first-in first out (FIFO), earliest due
date (EDD), least slack (LS), shortest processing time
(SPT), shortest remaining processing time (SRPT), critical
ratio (CR) FIFO+, SRPT+, and SRPT++) to a wafer fabri-
cation factory does not lead to very good results. Lu et al.
(1994) proposed two “stochastic” scheduling rules, fluctua-
tion smoothing policy for variance of cycle time(FSVCT)
and fluctuation smoothing policy for mean cycle time
(FSMCT), in which the remaining cycle time of a job is
considered and therefore needs to be estimated. The re-
maining cycle time of a job is highly stochastic because it is
dependent not only on the factory conditions but also on the
progresses of the other jobs as well. Both scheduling rules
were shown to be effective in reducing the cycle time aver-
ages and standard deviations. However, the problem is that
the remaining cycle time of a job is difficult to estimate.
Another way of designing a stochastic scheduling rule is to
form a combination of multiple deterministic scheduling
rules from which every time only the most suitable one is
chosen. For example, Hsieh et al. (2001) used five schedul-
ing rules including FSMCT, FSVCT, largest deviation first
(LDF), one step ahead (OSA), and FIFO jointly. The prob-
lem is that extensive simulation experiment is required to
estimate the performance of each candidate so as to deter-
mine the most suitable one.
Recently, some studies in this field applied agent tech-
nologies. For example, Yoon and Shen (2008) constructed a
multiple-agent system for scheduling a wafer fabrication
factory, in which four types of agents (scheduling agents,
work cell agents, machine agents, and product agents) were
involved. The optimal scheduling plan was found by the
scheduling agent through enumerating some possible sce-
narios. The proposed methodology was only compared with
the two basic scheduling rules FIFO and EDD. Besides, the
common batch processing of jobs was not considered and
therefore the case might be impractical. From a novel
viewpoint, data-mining has been applied in scheduling
manufacturing systems recently. For example, in Li and
Sigurdur (2004), historic schedules were transformed into
appropriate data files that were mined so as to learn which
past scheduling decisions correspond to the best practices.
Youssef et al. (2002) proposed a hybrid genetic algorithm
(GA) and data mining approach to find out the optimal
scheduling plan of a job shop, in which GA was used to
generate a learning population of good solutions. These
good solutions were then mined to find out some decision
rules that could be transformed in to a meta-heuristic.
Koonce and Tsai (2000) proposed a similar methodology.
Except few studies in which the historical data of a real
wafer fabrication factory were collected, most studies in
this field used simulated data.
Conclusively speaking, the existing approaches have
step cycle time of the new job. In this study, a VB.NET
program has been constructed to implement the FBPN.
2.2 Improving the Responsiveness of the FSVCT Rule
In traditional FS rules, there are two different ways of
formulation, depending on the purpose of scheduling. One
way is aimed at minimizing the variance of cycle time with
the FSVCT rule:
njnn RCTERSK  (2)
The other way is to minimize the mean cycle time with the
FSMCT rule:
njn RCTEnSK  / (3)
This study is focused on the FSVCT rule. In the traditional
FSVCT rule, RCTEnj might be much greater than Rn. As a
result, the slack of a job becomes determined solely by
RCTEnj. To tackle this problem, in the proposed methodol-
ogy both terms in the FSVCT rule are normalized:
))min()max((
))min((
)(
allall
all
nj
n
nj
n
nj
n
nj
nj RCTERCTE
RCTERCTE
RCTENor


 (4)
))min()max(/())min(()(
allallall
n
n
n
n
n
n
nn RRRRRNor  (5)
After normalization, both terms now range from 0 to 1.
Subsequently, to improve the responsiveness of the FSVCT
rule, the division operator is applied instead of the tradi-
tional subtraction operator:
)(/)( njnn RCTENorRNorSK  (6)
2.3 Tailoring the Nonlinear FSVCT Rule with Two Ad-
justment Factors
Most scheduling rules in this field cannot be tailored to
the wafer fabrication factory to be scheduled. For tackling
this problem, the transition from a traditional FSVCT rule
to its nonlinear form is analyzed as follows. The nonlinear
form can be re-written as
)))min((()
))min((
(
))min((
))min((
)min(
)min(
)min(
)min(
))min()/(max())min((
))min()/(max())min((
)(/)(
11
nnjnjn
njnj
nnjnjn
njnj
njnj
njnjnn
njnj
nn
njnjnjnj
nnnn
njnn
RRCTERCTER
RCTERCTE
RRCTERCTER
RCTERCTE
RCTERCTE
RCTERCTERR
RCTERCTE
RR
RCTERCTERCTERCTE
RRRR
RCTENorRNorSK






















 (7)
where )min()max( nn RR  and
)min()max( njnj RCTERCTE  . Conversely, the linear
form can also be re- written as
)))min((()
))min((
( 00 nnjnjn
njnj
njnn
RRCTERCTER
RCTERCTE
RCTERSK






 (8)
These two formulae can be generalized into the following
form:
)))min((()
))min((
( 


nnjnjn
njnj
n
RRCTERCTER
RCTERCTE
SK


 
(9)
where and are positive real numbers satisfying the fol-
lowing constraints:
= 0 = 0 (10)
= 1 = 1 (11)
There are many possible models to form the combinations
ofand. For example,
(Linear model)= (12)
(Nonlinear model)=k, k0 (13)
(Logarithmic model)= ln (1 +) / ln 2 (14)
With any model, the proposed methodology tries various
combinations of and to optimize the scheduling per-
formance in the target wafer fabrication factory. In this way,
the nonlinear FSVCT rule becomes tailored to the wafer
fabrication factory. Further, the values of and can be
dynamically adjusted to reflect to the changes in the pro-
duction conditions of the wafer fabrication factory.
3. PS FOR GENERATING TEST DATA
In practical situations, the history data of each job is
only partially available in the factory. Further, some infor-
mation of the previous jobs such as Qn, BQn, and FQn is not
easy to collect on the shop floor. Therefore, a simulation
model is often built to simulate the manufacturing process
of a real wafer fabrication factory (Chen, 2003). Then, such
information can be derived from the shop floor status col-
lected from the simulation model. To generate test data, a
simulation program coded using Microsoft Visual Ba-
sic .NET is constructed to simulate a wafer fabrication en-
vironment with the following assumptions:
1. Jobs are uniformly released into the factory.
2. The distributions of the interarrival times of machine
downs are exponential.
3. The distribution of the time required to repair a ma-
chine is uniform.
4. The percentages of jobs with different product types in
the factory are predetermined. As a result, this study is
only focused on fixed-product-mix cases.
5. The percentages of jobs with different priorities re-
leased into the factory are controlled.
6. The priority of a job cannot be changed during fabrica-
tion.
7. A job has equal chances to be processed on each alter-
native machine/head available at a step.
8. A job cannot proceed to the next step until the fabrica-
tion on its every piece has been finished.
9. No preemption is allowed.
The basic configuration of the simulated wafer fabrica-
tion factory is simplified from a real-world wafer fabrica-
tion factory which is located in the Science Park of
Hsin-Chu, Taiwan, R.O.C. Assumptions (1)~(3), and(7)~(9)
are commonly adopted in related researches (e.g. Chen,
2003; Chen and Wu, 2008), while assumptions (5) and (6)
are made to simplify the situation. There are five products
(labeled as A~E) in the simulated wafer fabrication factory.
is dependent on the way of determining the due date of a
job. In the experiment, the due date of a job was determined
as: due date = release time + ( - 1.5 * priority) * total
processing time, where  indicates the cycle time multi-
plier.
In p-FSVCT, there were two stages. At first, jobs were
scheduled with the p-FIFO policy, for which the remaining
cycle times at each step of all jobs were recorded and aver-
aged. Subsequently, the p-FSVCT policy was applied to
schedule jobs instead based on the average remaining cycle
times obtained previously. Namely, jobs were sequenced on
each machine first by their priorities, then by their slack
values that were equal to their release times minus the av-
erage remaining cycle times.
In the proposed methodology, eight combinations of 
and were tried. Note that when they are equal to 0, the
proposed methodology is equivalent to the p-FSVCT rule.
In the average cycle time respect, the p-FIFO policy
was adopted as the comparison basis, and the percentage of
improvement in the performance measure by applying an-
other approach is enclosed in parentheses following the
performance measure. On the other hand, the p-FSVCT
policy was adopted as the comparison basis in the cycle
time standard deviation respect.
According to experimental results, the following points
are made:
(1) In the average cycle time respect, the proposed meth-
odology outperformed the baseline approach, the
p-FIFO policy, in most cases. The most obvious ad-
vantage happened when (, ) = (0.25, 0.5), in which
the new scheduling rule surpassed the p-FIFO policy in
5 out of 7 cases with an average advantage of 3%.
(2) On the other hand, the proposed methodology achieved
very good performances in reducing the cycle time
standard deviations. The most obvious advantage hap-
pened when (, ) = (1, 1), in which the new schedul-
ing rule surpassed the baseline p-FSVCT policy in all
cases significantly with an average advantage of up to
50%, which revealed that the treatments done in this
study did improve the performance of the traditional
FSVCT policy.
(3) A small value of or seemed to be beneficial to the
scheduling performance of the proposed methodology
on reducing the average cycle times.
(4) On the other hand, the performances of the proposed
methodology with various values of in reducing the
cycle time standard deviations for several cases are
compared. In this respect, there seemed to be some
clear differences among the scheduling performances
with different values of . However, the trend was not
obvious. Conversely, the effect of on reducing the
cycle time standard deviations was investigated. We
noticed that in this respect a large value ofseemed to
be beneficial to the scheduling performance of the
proposed methodology.
(5) The traditional p-FSVCT policy performed poorly in
the simulation experiment. The reason might be owing
to the diversification in the product type and priority
that made the remaining cycle time of a job highly un-
certain and very difficult to estimate. As a result, esti-
mating that with the average value might be far from
accurate, which impaired the scheduling performance
of the traditional p-FSVCT policy.
(6) As expected, p-SRPT performed well in reducing the
average cycle times, but might show an exceedingly
bad performance in the cycle time standard deviation
respect.
(7) Among various EDD rules, the performance of
p-EDD-5.0 was the best one in reducing the average
cycle times, while p-EDD-6.0 was the best choice if the
cycle time standard deviations were to be minimized
instead.
(8) To statistically compare the performances of these ap-
proaches in all cases, we firstly ranked the perform-
ances of all approaches in every case, and then added
up the ranks of the same approach for comparison. To
consider both respects, the performances of all ap-
proaches were compared, which supported the Pareto
optimality of the proposed methodology because most
of its variants were not dominated by any of the other
approaches. Further, the new scheduling rule with (,
) = (1, 1) dominated all traditional approaches. Con-
versely, p-FSVCT was dominated by the other ap-
proaches. The p-SRPT policy was dominated by the
proposed methodology and p-EDD-5.0, while the
p-FIFO policy was also dominated by two EDD rules–
p-EDD-5.0 and p-EDD-6.5.
(9) Though the fuzzy-neural approach was modified from
the traditional FSVCT rule that was aimed at minimiz-
ing the cycle time standard deviations, five of its vari-
ants (including (, ) = (0.25, 0.5), (0.5, 0.5), (0.585,
0.5), (1, 1), and (2.25, 1.5)) also surpassed all the tradi-
tional approaches in reducing the average cycle times.
(10) As stated above, only some values ofandare feasi-
ble. The performances of the three models of generat-
ing (, ) combinations are compared. In this experi-
ment, the nonlinear model seemed to be the best choice
for this purpose, which also implied that two-factor
adjustment was better than single-factor adjustment in
which two parameters are equal.
5. CONCLUSION AND DIRECTIONS FOR FU-
TURE RESEARCH
A fuzzy-neural approach is proposed in this study to
further improve the performance of scheduling jobs in a
wafer fabrication factory. The fuzzy-neural approach is
modified from the well-known FSVCT rule with three in-
novative treatments. At first, the remaining cycle time of a
job is estimated by applying Chen et al.’s fuzzy-neural ap-
proach to improve the estimation accuracy. Secondly, the
components of the FSVCT rule are normalized, and then
the division operator is applied instead of the traditional
subtraction operator to enhance the responsiveness of the
rule. Thirdly, the content of the fuzzy-neural approach can
be tailored to the wafer fabrication factory to be scheduled
with two adjustment factors.
