2mass-spring structure governed by
m Ry C ky D u C d (1)
where m is the inertia, k is the stiffness, u is the control
input, and d is a harmonic disturbance describable by
d D a0 sin .!0t C #/ (2)
where a0 and # are uncertain constants. If the radian
frequency !0 is known, a dynamic vibration absorber as
shown in Fig. 2 can be mounted on the primary body,
where the inertia of the absorber is ma and the stiffness is
ka. When the characteristic frequency of the DVA is tuned
to be
p
ka=ma D !0, the harmonic disturbance will be
completely neutralized, provided there is sufficient damp-
ing added to the system as represented by the damper of
coefficient b. Rather than with a passive mass-spring de-
vice, the DVA can be emulated by a linear actuator with
the following control law:
u D ka.z  y/  b Py (3)
Rz D ka
ma
.y  z/ (4)
where z is the displacement of the pseudo, or virtual, mass.
The derivative term b Py is included to emulate the damper.
B. Adaptive virtual vibration absorber
Neither the passive DVA nor the equivalent fixed-gain
virtual vibration absorber of Eqs. (3)-(4) is adequate in sit-
uations where the disturbance frequency !0 is uncertain
or is drifting with time, since the performance of a DVA
is highly dependent on how well the DVA’s characteristic
frequency is tuned to match that of the disturbance. An
adaptive scheme based on the phase difference between
the vibrations of the primary body and the displacement of
the virtual mass is developed below.
Figure 2 depicts the vibration control system where the
virtual spring ka is updated by a phase detector and a low-
pass filter. The tuning rule is as follows.
Pka D  (5)
P D ˛ C ˛d (6)
d D RyRyrms
z
zrms
(7)
where d is the phase detector for the displacement of
the virtual mass and the acceleration of the primary body,
which is measurable by an accelerometer;  is the filtered
value of d ; and  is a positive constant that determines
the updating rate. The subscript “rms” denotes the root
mean square value of the signals: Ryrms equals 1=
p
2 the
amplitude of Ry. In implementation the rms value can be
estimated via a low pass filter as follows:
vrms D
p
w (8)
dw
dt
D ˛1w C ˛1v2 (9)
where v stands for z or Ry, and ˛1 is a positive value smaller
(510 times smaller) than the nominal frequency of the
disturbance. The dynamics governing ka from Eqs. (5)-
(7) are analyzed below.
From Eq. (4) the transfer function from Ry to z is ob-
tained to be
z
Ry D
ka
s2

mas2 C ka
 (10)
At the frequency !0,
z D ka
!2
0

ka  ma!20
 Ry (11)
Without loss of generality, assume that
Ry D ay sin!0t :
The product of normalized z and normalized Ry can be de-
rived to be
z
zrms
Ry
Ryrms D 2 sin .!0t/ cos .!0t  / (12)
where
 D
(
=2 if ka=ma > !20
C=2 if ka=ma < !20
(13)
Eq. (12) can be arranged to be
2 sin .! t/ cos .!0t  / D
sin .2!0t/ cos  cos .2!0t/ sin C sin (14)
Since sin .2!0t/ and cos .2!0t/ vanish when averaged out
over time, from Eq. (14), sin can be obtained by averag-
ing out, or low-pass filtering, the normalized product of z
and Ry. That is, if ˛ is chosen to be much smaller than the
frequency of the disturbance (˛  !0), Eqs. (6)-(7) can
be approximated by
P D ˛ C ˛ sin (15)
4Since 1 varies continuously with ka, so does 1.
From Eqs. (27), (29), (30) and using the identity that
d
dx
tan1 x D 1
1 C x2
the dynamic equation for a small a small perturbation of
ka about the target can be derived to be
d2
dt2
ıka C ˛ d
dt
ıka C ˛
!0ba
ıka D 0 (31)
B. Simulation
Numerical simulations are conducted to compare the re-
sponse of ka of the adaptive damped vibration absorber of
Eqs. (1), (2), (21)-(25) and that of the linearized approxi-
mation of Eq. (31). In the simulations ba is set to be 0:013;
the other parameters are the same as in the previous sec-
tion. Figure 5 shows the response of ka and Ry with a 1%
deviation of initial ka. It is seen that when ka is close to
the target value, its trajectory matches well with solutions
of the linearized model. There is no residual oscillation
of ka due to the additional damper. Note that Eq. (31) is
valid only when ka is in the neighborhood of k a . For large
deviations Eq. (18) is still a good approximation for the
damped vibration absorber.
IV. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
The experimental setup is shown in Fig. 6. The inertia
and the stiffness of the flexible plate are as given in Sec-
tion II. The actuator is a moving-magnet voice-coil motor
equipped with an LVDT. The control law is digitized and
written in C, and is implemented on a PC running in MS-
DOS mode.
Both damped and undamped adaptive virtual vibration
absorbers are tested in the experiments. Figure 7 shows
the time response with the undamped adaptive absorber of
Eqs. (3)-(9). The control parameters used in the testing are
the same as in the simulation of Section II. The disturbance
frequency is about 3.93Hz, and the initial value of ka is set
at 45 (N/m), about 10 percent below the target value. In
the beginning of the experiment the value of ka is fixed;
the adaptation algorithm is activated after 15 seconds. The
trajectory of ka is compared with simulation results. Fig-
ure 8 shows the response with the damped adaptive ab-
sorber of Eqs. (21)-(25). The control parameters are the
same as the previous case except that the coefficient of the
additional damper is set to be ba D 0:013, same as in the
simulation.
It is seen that adaptation rates in the experiments are
slower than the simulation results for both cases. More-
over, unlike simulation there is no residual oscillation in k a
even for the undamped vibration absorber. One explana-
tion for these phenomena is that there is inherent damping
in the linear actuator, due to friction in the moving parts
and the back emf in the motor. In other words, the vir-
tual vibration absorber may be more heavily damped than
designed, resulting in slower adaptation rates and reduced
oscillations in ka.
V. CONCLUSIONS
By emulating the dynamics of passive mechanical ele-
ments, a virtual-passive vibration absorber can be easily
constructed. The stiffness of the virtual spring is adapted
using a phase detector as in phase-locked loops. Sta-
bility is ensured as long as the adaptation rate is much
slower than the response of the system, or =k a is much
lower than the bandwidth of the nominal system. The pro-
posed algorithm is applicable to other actuators such as
piezoelectric materials, which are more suitable for high-
frequency active vibration control.
REFERENCES
[1] M. A. Franchek, M. W. Ryan, R. J. Bernhard, “Adaptive passive
vibration control,” Journal of Sound and Vibration, Vol. 189, No.
5, pp. 565-585, 1996.
[2] J. S. Lai, K. W. Wang, “Parametric control of structural vibra-
tions via adaptable stiffness dynamic absorbers,” ASME Journal
of Vibration and Acoustics, Vol. 118, pp. 41-47, 1996.
[3] M. R. F. Kidner, M. J. Brennan, “Varying the stiffness of a beam-
like neutralizer under fuzzy logic control,” ASME Journal of Vi-
bration and Acoustics, Vol. 124, pp. 90-99, 2002.
[4] J. M. de Bedout, M. A. Franchek, R. J. Bernhard, L. Mongeau,
“Adaptive-passive noise control with self-tuning Helmholtz res-
onators,” Journal of Sound and Vibration, Vol. 202, No. 1, pp.
109-123, 1995.
[5] T. M. Kostek, M. A. Franchek, “Hybrid noise control in ducts,”
Journal of Sound and Vibration, Vol. 237, No. 1, pp. 81-100,
2000.
[6] S. J. Esteve, M. E. Johnson, “Adaptive Helmholtz resonators and
passive vibration absorbers for cylinder interior noise control,”
Journal of Sound and Vibration, Vol. 288, No. 4-5, pp. 1105-1130,
2005.
[7] K. Nagaya, Y. Hano, A. Suda, “Silencer consisting of a two
stage Helmholtz resonator with auto tuning control,” Journal of
the Acoustical Society of America, Vol. 110, No. 1, pp. 289-295,
2001.
[8] M. Yasuda, R. Gu, O. Nishihara, H. Matsuhisa, K. Ukai, M.
Kondo, “Development of anti-resonance enforced active vibration
absorber system,” JSME International Journal, Series C, Vol. 39,
No. 3, pp. 464-469, 1996.
