中文摘要 
 
本研究以薄型薄膜濾波器與光纖透鏡組為基礎，在矽光學平台上利用被動對準的
組裝方式，建構一新型之可調變高密度分波多工濾波模組。我們所提出的可調變
濾波模組的元件結構十分獨特，它是以光纖透鏡作為光路的基本結構，再搭配以
外加應力的方式造成 薄型薄膜濾波器 的形變，來達成調變其中心工作波長的目
的。當薄膜濾波器厚度減至 100 um，可達最大的籃位移為 3.8nm。此可調變之濾
波器結構為光纖透鏡/薄膜濾波器/光纖透鏡之三明治結構於矽光學平台上。當改
變薄膜濾波器厚，中心波長可調變至 4.3nm。 
 
英文摘要 
Strain-induced tunability of thin DWDM thin-film filters (TFF) 
fabricated by thinning the substrates of the 100-GHz standard filters was 
measured. For 100μm thick, 250μm by 200μm thin TFF, wavelength 
drifts larger than 4.4 nm were achieved with an insertion loss of less than 
1.6dB. 
 
 
1. Introduction 
 In recent emerging wavelength division multiplexing (WDM) systems, dynamic 
operations of wavelength-selective devices are increasingly in demand. Many 
different types of wavelength-selective devices have been proposed such as stretched 
fiber gratings, thermo-optical waveguides, MEMS devices, and tunable thin-film 
filters (TFFs) [1-3]. Among these technologies, wavelength detuning based on TFFs 
can be competitive in terms of manufacturing cost and optical performance. 
Conventional TFFs are able to achieve excellent performance on optical insertion 
loss and spectral response. However, the tunability of the SiO2/Ta2O5 TFFs induced 
by thermo-optical effect is relatively small [1] due to the nature of stress-free coating 
characteristics. In addition, mechanically actuated bulk TFF for wavelength detuning 
sacrifices the advantages of thin film compactness and integrability, and therefore is 
not suitable for applications of integrated optics.  
 In this paper, a tunable filter based on strain-induced wavelength shift of thin 
DWDM TFFs was proposed. The thin DWDM TFFs were obtained by reducing 
substrate thickness of conventional 100 GHz TFFs. The schematic drawing of the 
proposed tunable filter is shown in Fig. 1. A mechanical force was applied to the thin 
TFF substrate by direct compression using the output lensed fiber. This force causes 
deformation of the substrate and induces tensile strain to the dielectric coating of the 
thin TFF. Therefore, a blue shift of the center wavelength was expected [2]. In 
thin TFF, its spectrum response was that of a standard TFF but with a blue drift of the 
center wavelengths due to stress caused by substrate thinning. However, when tensile 
stress was applied to the thin TFF by compression of the output lensed fiber, 
additional shifts of the center wavelengths toward shorter wavelengths were 
observed. In addition, the insertion losses of less than 2 dB were obtained for both 
filters at the center wavelengths of the thin TFFs. Fig. 5 shows measured wavelength 
shifts of the tunable filters in term of the displacement x of the output lensed fiber. 
The maximum wavelength shift for the filter with 200×200 μm2 thin TFF is 2.1 nm 
at 16 μm displacement of the output lensed fiber. The displacement can be increased 
by extending the length of the thin TFF to provide additional bending of the TFF 
substrate. The maximum wavelength shift was further increased to 4.45 nm with the 
250×200 μm2 thin TFF using 20 μm displacemen. 
 
4. Conclusion 
  In conclusion, we have demonstrated a tunable filter by hybrid 
integration of thin DWDM TFF and lensed fibers on Si bench. The wavelength 
detuning of the filter was obtained by direct compression of the 100 μm thick TFF 
using the output lensed fiber. The maximum tunability of the filter using 250 μm × 
200 μm thin TFF was larger than 4.4 nm with an insertion loss of less than 2 dB. 
These findings can be applied in dynamic operations of DWDM systems for access 
fiber optical networks. 
 
References: 
1. M. Lequime, R. Parmentier, F. Lemarchand, and C. Amra, Appl. Opt. Vol. 41, p. 
3277, 2002. 
2. R. Parmentier and M. Lequime, Opt. Lett. Vol. 28, p. 728, 2003. 
3. L. Domash, M. Wu, N. Nemchuk, and E. Ma, J. Lightwave Technol., Vol. 22, p. 
126, 2004. 
 Fig. 4. The measured transmission spectrums of the tunable filters with (a) 200 × 200 
μm2 and (b) 250 × 200 μm2 thin TFFs as a function of the displacement x of 
the output lensed fiber. The substrate thickness of the thin TFFs is 100 μm. 
 
 
 
Fig. 5. The measured wavelength shifts of the tunable filters in term of the 
displacement x of the output lensed fiber. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ORAL PRESENTATIONS: Oral presentations must be in English. Only LCD projectors will be provided 
as standard equipment for all oral presentations. Authors are required to provide their own laptop 
computers for LCD presentations. Speakers requiring special equipment must email their request to 
meetings@electrochem.org, by September 24, 2010 and appropriate arrangements will be made at the 
expense of the author. 
 
VISA INFORMATION: An original copy of this letter (frequently used by foreign travelers to obtain a 
visa) will be mailed to all presenting authors with non-U.S. addresses only. To request that a "letter of 
invitation" on ECS letterhead be faxed or emailed to you, please complete the electronic form located at 
https://www.electrochem.org/meetings/mtg_app/visa_mtg_form.aspand your letter will be sent to you 
within two business days. If you require a visa to enter The US, we strongly encourage you to start the 
visa application process immediately. 
 
Your paper represents an important contribution to the success of the 218th ECS Meeting and we 
appreciate your participation.  
 
Sincerely,  
 
Paul J. Urso, Jr. 
Associate Director of Technical Programming 
b頁 2 - 2(B)
2010/6/18
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
          
日期：  2010 年  10 月   日 
計畫編號 NSC   98－2221－E－110－014－MY2 
計畫名稱 一種可應用於都會/揭取端以應力產生波長調變的薄型高密度分
波多工薄膜濾波器 
出國人員
姓名 朱安國 教授 
服務機
構及職
稱 
國立中山大學 光電系 
教授兼任光電系主任 
會議時間 
2010 年 10 月 10 日
至 
2010 年 10 月 15 日 
會議地
點 
Las Vegas, USA
會議名稱 (中文) 第 218 屆電化學會議 (英文) 218th Electrochemical Society (ECS) Meeting 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)多孔隙 ITO/磁式濺鍍 ITO堆疊之導電抗反射薄膜應用於矽基太陽能電池 
(英文) A Conductive Antireflection Coating using Porous ITO on Sputtered ITO 
Double Layers for Silicon-based Solar Cells 
一、參加會議經過 
 
此次出國為參加在美國Las Vegas舉行之218th Electrochemical Society
(ECS) Meeting會議，舉行日期為10/10~15日，共六天。因筆者近年來執行
之研究內容已有部分轉向發展太陽能電池之材料與元件，因此選擇參與此會
議。此行目的除了發表我們團隊之研究成果之外，另外為與其它團隊相互交
流於太陽能電池之相關研究，以擴充團隊於此研究領預之視野，此會議主題
範圍廣大，包含Nanotechnology、Battery / Energy Technology、Electronics and 
3-D Packaging、Thin Film Transistors、Semiconductor Wafer Bonding、Atomic 
Layer Deposition Applications、fuel cell、hotovoltaics for the 21st Century 等，
共有10大會議主題，而本次參加的場次為“E8 - Photovoltaics for the 21st 
Century 6＂。會議前三天都是參加太陽能主題相關之場次，包括矽基太陽能
電池、有機太陽能電池、染料敏化太陽能電池及透明導電材料等主題。而後，
此ECS研討會後三天已無太陽能相關主題，所以就進行fuel cell及TFT的相關
主題的觀摩，這兩個主題也很熱門，尤其是fuel cell更是如此。  
 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/07
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 一種可應用於都會/揭取端以應力產生波長調變的薄型高密度分波多工薄膜濾
波器
計畫主持人: 朱安國
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-110-014-MY2 學門領域: 光學工程
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
