界生態影響很大,因此,各國已有共識對於鉛元素的使用進行嚴格的
限制,以及更積極的發展新一代環保材料。在電子構裝產品中,錫球接
點是最容易產生缺陷的地方,無鉛材料接點比含鉛材料接點來的硬且
脆,容易在動態負荷與散熱效能下因為吸收衝擊能量而斷裂,造成電
子元件的失效,如何提升無鉛錫球在動態負荷與散熱效能下的可靠度
便成為現階段電子構裝的大考驗。因此本研究將將以嚴謹的物物理特
性為主,針對無鉛錫球BGA 封裝體在散熱效能與隨機振動負載作用下
的力學行為與可靠度分析進行測試實驗與電腦分析。同時運用DOE 與
ANOVA 得到方程試,設計一套無鉛錫球BGA 封裝體疲勞壽命在散熱效
能與振動載荷下之快速評估。 
Abstract 
This paper emphasizes a rapid assessment methodology using by the Design of 
experiments (DOE) to determine fatigue life of BGA components in the random 
vibration environment.  The most critical dynamic loading occurs when the 
dominant frequency approaches the natural frequency of the PWB assembly.  One 
only needs to think of commercial personal portable electronic products such as cell 
phones, personal data assistants, and entertainment devices (as exemplified by the 
I-pod) to realize that electronic products are no longer exclusively used in a relatively 
benign office environment.  The approach in this paper will involve global (entire 
PWB) and local (particular component of interest) modeling approaches.  In the 
global model approach, the vibration response of the PWB will be determined.  This 
global model will give us the response of the PWB at specific component locations of 
interest.  This response is then fed into a local stress analysis for accurate assessment 
of the critical stresses in the solder joints of interest.  The stresses are then fed into a 
fatigue damage model to predict the life.  The solution is achieved by using a 
combination of Finite Element Analysis (FEA), Design of Experiments (DOE), the 
new version of CALCE_PWA, and the new version of CALCE_FEA model.  
2. This response represents the largest deflection and curvatures of the PWB and 
typically accounts for the vast majority of the fatigue damage.  
3. It is assumed that if the PWB is properly designed to withstand the dynamics 
environment, this gross failure will not occur.   
4. This present study is concerned with the failure assessment of the BGA 
attachments. 
5. A damage superposition methodology could be used to combine any number of 
critical modes. 
6. This present work takes a Physics of Failure (PoF) type approach to damage 
analysis and models the complete PWB assembly.   
7. All analyses are linear-elastic.   
8. The curvature induced in the PWB due to the motion of the PWB board under 
vibration causes damage to the component’s attachment.  It is critical to be able 
to accurately measure or calculate the curvature of the PWB so that can eventually 
conduct fatigue damage analysis of the component’s attachment. 
9. This paper has chosen to work within the frequency domain because most 
qualification, acceptance, and screening specifications are called out in terms of 
an acceleration PSD plot. 
 
The problem can be stated as follows:   
1. This present work is to develop the rapid assessment model that can conduct the 
solder joint fatigue life under vibration loading.  
2. The current available CALCE software [CALCE_PWA, Version 4.1] for 
evaluation PWB and their solder attaches uses a vibration fatigue life model which 
is basically an empirical model.  This problem of this model, since it is empirical, 
is that it must be calibrated for new component styles and new materials as they 
become available from the various component makers.  Such calibration efforts 
are time consuming and require expensive experiments.  The research presented 
in this dissertation attempts to move in a direction to improve the current CALCE 
model.   
 
The major improvement is due to breaking up the current empirical model into a 
separate stress analysis model and a separate fatigue damage model.  The current 
CALCE empirical model does not calculate a stress, but rather a fictitious damage 
parameter that is only loosely related to stress.  The calculation of this fictitious 
damage parameter only considers the overall package size and considers no other 
material or geometric parameters of the particular package.  The approach taken in 
this paper calculates an actual stress in the critical solder joint and considers all 
ii. For this problem the response variable, or dependent variable, is the curvature 
ratio and the independent variables, or factors, are a mixture of material properties 
and geometric dimensions.  Table 1 presents all possible factors.  This list is too 
large and critical factors need to be identified.  A series of preliminary calculations 
were performed to identify which factors influenced the curvature ratio.  These 
calculations varied a single factor throughout its expected range and a plot was made 
of the curvature ratio as a function of the factor.  Obvious critical factors included: 
PWB and component young’s modulus and thickness, neighboring component and 
location (also known as “gap size”), and component length (also known as “ball span 
length”).  If we put all these factors into a DOE/ANOVA process there will be too 
many runs and the resulting formula may be too complicated.  To further reduce the 
number of critical factors, some of these factors are grouped through known material 
relationships.  For example, rigidity is related to Young’s Modulus and the layer 
thickness.  Thus, rigidity D will be used as a factor.  
  
)-1(12
          
)-1(12 2
3
2
3
component
componentcomponent
component
pcb
pcbpcb
pcb
hE
Dand
hE
D νν ==
            (3)
 
By doing so, the critical factors are reduced to componentD , pcbD , ball span length and 
neighboring component and location.  SinceC  is unit-less, we basically normalize 
these four factors into two 
pcb
component
ratio D
D
D = and
 
  
tiont and locag componenNeighborin
lengthspanball , for 
consistence of units. 
Similarly we use the ratio of 
 
  
tiont and locag componenNeighborin
lengthspanball  to simplify the 
modeling.  Preliminary modeling showed that this length ratio was a good choice as 
seen in Figure 2.  The figure includes the analysis for three cases: keeping the gap 
size between the component the same while varying the component length, keeping 
the component length the same while varying the gap size between components, and 
varying the number of interconnects for a given package size.  When plotted as a 
function of the ratio of component length/gap size, the results seem to lie on a master 
curve.  Having preliminarily identified the key geometry and material parameters 
that influence the correction factor, DOE and ANOVA techniques will be more 
formally used in the next steps. 
Step 3:  Computation of the total runs required; decision on the design option: 
 To use RSM--three level factorials and two factors:  
ratioDBtiont and locag componenNeighborin
lengthspanballA :  ,
 
  : )                (4) 
ANSYS and ALCE_PWA.  Figure 4 shows good agreement with less than 2.1% error 
between the predicted and actual values for the CBGA.   
Step 8:  Use/present the results: Functional relationship forC  
The response surface technique, with the identified critical parameters, gives a 
functional relationship forC  for the PBGA, CBGA and CSP cases. 
) ,
 
  (
PWB
component
ratio D
D
D
tiont and locag componenNeighborin
lengthspanballfC ==
) ,
 
  ( ratioDtiont and locag componenNeighborin
lengthspanballfC =                    (6) 
Once the model had been created and its appropriateness verified, the results are 
summarized in equation (7) for the PBGA component.   
 
2
ratio D * size length/GapComponent  *819.3280629-                                 
ratio D * 
2size length/GapComponent  *30.04309271-                                 
 size length/GapComponent  *819.3280629-                                 
                                         ratio D*
2size length/GapComponent  *30.04309271-                                 
2
ratio D * 823.3439923-
2size length/GapComponent  *70.00237384-                                 
ratio D * size length/GapComponent  *42.48303405+ratio D * 60.67171059-                                 
size length/GapComponent *40.05245268+21.07521629)( =ostressratiPBGASqrt
    (7) 
The equation (7) presented are for the PWB’s thickness ranging from 0.6-1.6mm.  It 
was found that a more accurate model could be created by splitting the PWB 
thickness into two different ranges.  
 
四、結果與討論 
 
This paper develops a rapid assessment methodology for evaluating the fatigue life of 
BGA packages in a vibration environment.  The approach used in this work is a 
physics of failure type approach to damage analysis.  The methodology starts with a 
model of the complete PWB assembly.  A global-local type of analysis is employed.  
Through a series of DOE simulations using a much finer mesh in ANSYS, a 
functional form was determined for a correction factor that improved that accuracy of 
the CALCE_PWA calculated curvature.  One of the primary contributions of this 
work is to identify and qualify the influence of the various parameters that influence 
the global model correction factor and the local model stress analysis function.  It 
was found that the global model correction factor is a function of the rigidity ratio 
between the BGA and the PWB, as well as the ratio of ball span length on a side to the 
gap length between a the package of interest and it nearest neighbor.  Those these 
 
 
References 
Akay, H.U., Paydr, N.H., and Bilgic A., “Fatigue Life Predictions for Thermally 
Loaded Solder Joints Using a Volume-Weighted Averaging Technique,” ASME 
Journal Electronic. Packaging, 119, pp.228-235, 1977 
 
Barker, Donald B., Abhijit Dasgupta, Michael G. Pecht, “PWB Soder Joint Fatigue 
Life Calculations Under Thermal and Vibration Loading,” Journal of the IES, Vol.35, 
no. 1, pp17-25, January 1992 
 
Barker, Donald B., Chen, Y.S., and Dasgupta, A., “Estimating the Vibration Fatigue 
Life of Quad Leaded Surface Mount Components,” Journal of Electronic Packaging, 
Vol. 115, pp. 195-200, 1993 
 
Chan C. K., Tay C.S., “BGA Package Design Guide for Thermo-mechanical 
Performance in Lead Free Transition”  Proceedings of INTERPACK’05, 2005 
ASME, July 17-22, San Francisco CA USA 
 
Frear, D. R.., W.B. Jones, and Kinsman K.R., “Solder Mechanics, A State of the Art 
Assessment,” a publication of TMS, Santa Fe, New Mexico, 1990 
 
Hwang, Jennie S., “Modern Solder Technology for Competitive Electronics 
Manufacturing,” McGraw-Hill, 1996 
 
Lau, J., et al., “Solder Joint Reliability of Surface Mount Connectors,” Journal of 
Electronic Packaging, Vol. 115, pp180-188, 1993 
 
Lau, J., Gratalo, K., Schneider, E., Marcotte T., and Baker T., “Solder Joint Reliability 
of Large Plastic Ball Grid Array Assemblies under Bending, Twisting, and vibration 
Conditions”, Circuit World, Vol. 22 No.1, 1995 
 
Lau, J., Schneider, E., and Baker, T., “Shock and Vibration of Solder Bumped Flip 
Chip on Organic Coated Copper Boards,” Journal of Electronic Packaging, Vol. 118, 
pp. 101-104, 1996 
 
Lau, J.H. and Y.H. Pao, “Solder Joint Reliability of BGA, CSP, Flip Chip and Fine 
Pitch SMT assemblies,” McGraw-Hill, Inc., 1997 
 
Steinberg, D.S., Vibration Analysis for Electronic Equipment, 3rd Ed., John Wiley and 
Sons, New York, NY, 1988 
 
Steinberg, D.S., Preventing Thermal Cycling and Vibration Failures in Electronic 
Equipment, Wiley, New York, NY, 2001 
 
Suhir, E., “Is the Maximum Acceleration an Adequate Criterion of the Dynamic 
Strength of a Structural Element in an Electronic Product?”  IEEE Transactions on 
Component, Packaging, and Manufacturing Technology, Part A, Vol. 20, No.4, pp. 
513-517, 1997 
 
Suhir, E., “Could Compliant External Leads Reduce the Strength of a Surface 
Mounted Device?” proceedings of the 38th Electronic Components Conference, pp. 
1-6, 1988 
Sloan, Joel, Design and Packaging of Electronic Equipment, Van Nostrand Reinhold 
Company, NY, 1985 
 
Tavernelli, J. F., and Coffin, Jr. L.F., “Experimental Support for Generalized Equation 
Predicting Low Cycle Fatigue, “ASME Journal Basic Engineering, 84, Dec., pp. 
533-541, 1962 
 
Wild, R.N., Welding Research Supp., 51, pp. 521s. 1972 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
CBGA Correction Factor for Global Model: 
Predicted Vs. Actual
0.00
1.00
2.00
3.00
4.00
0.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 4.00
Actual
P
re
di
ct
ed
 
FIGURE 3:  CBGA CORRECTION FACTOR FOR GLOBAL MODEL: PREDICTED VS. ACTUAL 
 
 
 
CBGA Verification of the Global Modeling 
Correction Factor: C
0.00
1.00
2.00
3.00
4.00
0.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 4.00
Correction Factor: C 
Re
sp
on
se
 S
ur
fa
ce
 M
et
ho
d 
(R
M
S)
 
FIGURE 4:  LOCAL MODEL FOR CALCE_FEA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 □ 成 果 報 告   □期中進度報告 
 
（計畫名稱） 
實驗測試與數值分析無鉛錫球封裝之散熱效能與隨機振動下錫球的疲
勞壽命評估 
 
計畫類別：□ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-006-033- 
執行期間：98 年 07 月 24 日至 98 年 08 月 28 日 
 
計畫主持人：吳美玲 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：  
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：成功大學機械系 
 
附件一 
目次 
 
 
                               頁 
摘要………………………………………………………………………2 目
次……………………………………………………………………… 3 
本文……………………………………………………………………… 4 
 目的…………………………………………………………………4 
 過程…………………………………………………………………6 
 心得…………………………………………………………………7 
 建議事項…………………………………………………………..8 
附錄……………………………………………………………………....9 
 
  
Glass reinforced organic laminates make up over 90% of the interconnecting substrates in 
today’s electronics (standard Flame Retardent-4 (FR-4) represents 85% of the resin systems used). 
Failures attributed to Conductive filament formation (CFF) or conductive anodic filament (CAF) 
in these laminates is usually observed in the bulk. CFF is an electrochemical process which 
involves the ionic transport of metal ions through or across a nonmetallic medium under the 
influence of an applied electric field. The growth of the metallic filaments is dependent on factors 
such as temperature, moisture content, the voltage bias, manufacturing quality and processes, 
materials and other environmental conditions and physical factors. The growth of the metallic 
filaments can often cause an abrupt, unpredictable loss of insulation resistance between the 
conductors under a direct current (DC) voltage bias. 
 
The filament formation typically takes place in two steps: a degradation of the resin/glass 
interface followed by an electrochemical reaction. Bond degradation provides a path along which 
electro-deposition may occur due to electrochemical reaction. The path may result from poor 
glass treatment, from hydrolysis of the silane glass finish and also from mechanical stresses. 
Once the path is formed, an aqueous medium will develop through the adsorption, absorption, 
and capillary action of water. Presence of hollow glass fibers inside the laminate can make the 
CFF a one step process, effectively removing the first step – the need for path formation. The 
path in the printed circuit board (PCB) may be viewed as an electrochemical cell in which the 
metal conductors are the electrodes, the driving potential for the electrochemistry is the operating 
potential of the circuit and the electrolyte is the absorbed moisture. In other words, conductive 
filament formation is a process by which a metal, in contact with insulating materials and under 
an electric potential, is removed ionically from its initial location and is redeposited at some other 
location.  The result can be intermittent or permanent leakage currents or short circuit failures. 
 
The occurrence of conductive filament formation deep within the PCB can easily be 
misdiagnosed as “Failure Unknown”. The Test Services and Failure Analysis Laboratory at 
CALCE has examined numerous electronic assembly failures due to PCB shorts, permanent and 
intermittent. Many of these failures, sent back after customer complaints, could only be 
duplicated in relatively high humidity environment since moisture was required to complete the 
electrical path. CFF is difficult to detect in the field because once it occurs, sufficient heat is 
generated to “vaporize” the conductive filament and “clear” the failure. Furthermore, observation 
of a partial filament formation requires destructive analysis. 
 
Modes of Path Formation in Printed Wiring Boards 
 
Prior to or simultaneously with the formation of the filament, a pathway connecting the 
oppositely biased conductors must be formed. Path configurations include formation between 
 During the manufacture of glass fibers, a homogeneous melt composition with negligible 
impurities is necessary to prevent the decomposition of raw materials. The sublimation of these 
organics can lead to trapped gases. Depending on the viscosity of the glass mixture and various 
manufacturing processes, these gases can get trapped as bubbles, called seeds. Seeds are a 
naturally occurring part of the process and thus methods to remove them are necessary.  If the 
molten glass contains a sufficient level of impurities, air bubbles may become trapped inside the 
fibers while being drawn through the bushing. These air bubbles, unless very large, do not cause 
fiber breakage but end up as capillaries in the glass fibers, otherwise known as hollow fibers. 
These hollow glass fibers increase the opportunity for failure between close conductors because 
the capillary provides a convenient path for the formation of conductive filaments. Hollow fibers 
pose a serious reliability threat in that they can remove the rate limiting step from the two step 
sequential process of CAF. 
 
Vertical Filament Formation 
  
 In a set of PCB failing by shorted internal planes, the root-cause was determined to be 
conductive filament formation in the vertical direction, via cracked fused silica particles. Due to 
the particles being larger that the vertical spacing between the power and ground planes, during 
lamination of the boards, some of the larger particles, trapped in the vertical gap between the 
power and ground planes cracked. These internal cracks in the fused silica allowed moisture to 
ingress in the existing path, leading to conductive filament growths during testing and operation. 
 
