2 
 
中文摘要 
發光二極體(LED)較傳統的冷陰極管背光系統，具備高顏色純度及高亮度。這樣的光源特性
表現，將可提升背光元件的色彩表現性。再者發光二極體LED之低耗電量特性，更使其在各式
手攜式電子產品如：個人數位助理(PDA)及掌上型投影機的應用上均有十分突出的表現。雖然發
光二極體已具備上述之優點，然而以身為背光投影或者運用到光纖通訊的光源而言，LED 本身
的光源特性尚有其改善空間，這也是本計畫所欲著力之處。現行LED 裸晶之配光曲線為朗勃遜
光，這樣的光源特性會導致發光能量散角過大而不利於後端應用；目前的作法多是利用後段封
裝來加以改變光型，而本計畫則提出從製程中直接改善的手法，主要是利用熱壓印製程與LED 
晶片製程的相結合，透過這樣製程所產生的奈微米結構來達到調整LED 配光曲線的效果。本計
畫在執行期間，將會運用傳統的黃光微影以及電子束微影、雷射干涉技術來進行各種奈微米結
構的圖形定義。並將此結構轉錄至矽及藍寶石基板上以作為模具，然後透過模具壓印再配合乾
及濕式蝕刻將所設計之結構，以二元或灰階的形式複製到LED的透明導電薄膜上。最後再針對
這樣的LED晶片進行光特性及電特性的量測，以期解決LED 裸晶光源散角過大的問題。 
關鍵詞：發光二極體、壓印、光源配光曲線 
 
 
 
Abstract 
Light emitting diodes (LEDs) have better color gamut than CCFL while applied on the backlight 
of TFT-LCD, and are especially suitable for the application of handy electronic products, such as PDA, 
palm projector, etc. due to the low power consumption. However, as the light source for the projector 
or optical fiber communications, LEDs still needs to improve their light performance. That is, the 
far-field pattern for the current LEDs is a lambertian emission pattern which has large divergent angle 
but not directional pattern. Current method to modify the light pattern is mostly through the packaging 
design. In this project, we propose to improve the light pattern by integrating the thermal embossing 
process and chip process. Conventional optical lithography, electron-beam lithography and laser 
interference lithography are employed to build up the nano/micro structure on the silicon and sapphire 
wafers as an imprinting mold. According to the imprinting and etching process, the nano/micro 
structures with binary and gray-level shapes are formed on the transparent conductive layer of LEDs. 
Finally, we will measure the optical and electrical properties. 
Keywords: Light emitting diodes, Imprinting, Far-field light pattern  
  
4 
 
有變化，GMR 濾片便會偏離原本的設計特性。於寬波段且多方向入射角的 GMR 結構。M. D. 
Choi 團隊[5]亦在 LED 的裸晶上製作大小為 20μm的微透鏡陣列，該透鏡陣列成功的將 LED 裸
晶配光曲線將原本的大於 80°的張角縮小至 60°以內。這些研究均大幅度的提升了 LED 裸晶在各
方面之應用範圍，有鑑於此本計畫預計利用壓印技術將奈微米結構製作於 LED chip 的透明導電
膜上並透過這樣的結構製作以達到 LED 遠場光形調製的效果。 
 
研究方法 
本計畫預計透過黃光微影及壓印等奈微米製程，將奈微米結構製作於發光二極體 LED 上。
透過不同的結構如二元及灰階、不同的尺寸維度如微米及奈米等級以及非均勻的結構分布來改
善發光二極體光源能量的空間分布。在 LED 裸晶上製作這樣的奈微米結構，有助於光的萃取量
已經廣為人知。所以本計畫預計透過微結構的各項調整，進行光源能量的空間調製這方面的研
究，使其符合後端各項應用的需求。本計畫之研究重點涵括實作與量測，在實作方面本計畫由
二元結構與灰階結構下手，針對其不同的製程參數與其產生對光源特性調製的效果進行討論。
以找出符合本計畫所預期的光型調製效果的結構。在量測方面則是建立空間角度解析的量測機
台，針對光型調製之角度解析變化進行光致發光及電致發
光的量測。本計畫的執行包含下述幾個主要部分，分別為
模具製作、晶片製作、結構壓印與特性量測。 
如圖 1.所示將矽基板，浸泡在丙酮溶液並在超音波震
盪器中清洗五分鐘以去除試片表面之有機汙染物。再將試
片浸泡於異丙醇溶液中以去除表面之丙酮。最後再使用去
離子水將異丙醇去除。在去除試片表面汙染物確定試片結
淨後，便依照所需的線寬進行結構定義。線寬維度在微米
等級以上的採用傳統的黃光曝光顯影機台；結構線寬在微
米以下的則採用電子術曝光微影機台進行結構定義。模具
基板在圖形定義後則分別採用乾式蝕刻或濕式蝕刻進行
模具製作。並於模具製作完成後，去除表面殘留的高分子
層。 
圖 1. 
完成之模具照片如圖 2.與圖 3.所示。 
          
圖 2.                            圖 3. 
 
晶片製作: 
在晶片製作程方面，本計畫採購 460nm 發光波段的藍光晶片。晶片的製作流程如圖 4.所示：先
將 GaN wafer 進行如同模具一般的潔淨過程，再進行黃光微影的圖形定義，並以活性離子蝕刻
6 
 
特性量測: 
壓印與晶粒製程技術之結合在結合的過程中，由於壓印完後頇把電極的部分漏出在外，所
以蝕刻時需考慮不會傷害到晶粒製程而影響電性，造成 Vf過高和漏電流的問題，而傳統壓印與
晶粒製程技術結合的方式是以先壓印蝕刻後再蒸鍍上電極，但此種方式在蝕刻時都會對 p-GaN
和透明導電層 ITO 有影響，本研究依照傳統壓印與晶粒製程技術結合的方式，所製做出之 LED，
也有漏電流過大和 Vf過高之情況，在蝕刻壓印材料後，蝕刻到 p-GaN 而造成電特性受損的情況
在電流為 20 mA 時，順向偏壓變為 5.5 V，代表經蝕刻後電特性已受損，Vf變大。因此本研究
改以先蒸鍍上電極再壓印，蝕刻製程後漏出電極的
部分，此法將可以有效避免蝕刻時，蝕刻到 p-GaN
和透明導電層 ITO 而造成的電性損害或是漏電流過
大之問題。在電流為 20 mA 時，順向偏壓依然保持
為 3.3 V，如圖 6.所示。且以此法蝕刻時是以金屬電
極做為最後的檔層，因此也會把金屬表面的油漬和
灰塵去除，有助於後段打線封裝的製程。由圖 7.中
可以看得出來，不同的壓印結構對 LED 的順向偏壓
並沒有不良的影響。有經過壓印製程的 LED 晶片與
對照組傳統的 LED 並沒有太大的差別。                            
圖 6. 
                                   
 針對遠場光型的探討，研究中使用電致發
光的方式，將發光二極體裝置於可控制旋轉角
度的步進馬達上，以每 2°旋轉一次之頻率，利
用遠端的光檢測器來接收光強度，藉以分析製
作在發光二極體上的結構對遠場光形的影響，
此方法稱為 EL Angular resolved，如圖 7.所
示。 
 
圖 7. 
圖8(a)為沒有設計結構與結構為grating之發光二極體之比較，光檢測器量測的方向與
grating方向垂直，由圖8(a)可以得知，將有壓印結構之發光二極體垂直光檢測器旋轉0°與180°，
光形由原本的朗伯遜曲線，改變為一個不對稱的光形，光強度明顯偏向兩側，原因為在本研究
中所設計的grating 為一個非對稱的灰階結構，因此在結構的兩邊也所造成光路徑也為非對稱
的方式由SOG 進入到空氣中，所以會形成一個非對稱的光形。將發光二極體試片旋轉90°後，由
圖8(a) 可以看出與旋轉0°時的圖形成對稱的形狀。對於這個維度為一維的grating 結構，可預
期的在量測方向與grating 平行的狀況下，光受到影響的現象將會減少。將grating 結構的發
光二極體旋轉90°後的光形，如圖8(b)，證明了製作grating 的結構對於光形的特定方向有確實
的增強。 
8 
 
 
參考文獻 
[1] Eli Yablonovitch, Phys. Rev. Lett. 58, 2059, 1987. 
[2] Aurélien David, Tetsuo Fujii, Rajat Sharma, Kelly McGroddy, Shuji Nakamura,StevenP. DenBaars, 
Evelyn L. Hu, and Claude Weisbuch, Photonic-crystal GaN light-emitting diodes with tailored 
guided modes distribution, Applied Physics letters 88, 2006 
[3] J. J. Wierer, M. R. Krames, J. E. Epler, N. F. Gardner, M. G. Craford, J. R. Wendt, J. A H. W. Choi, 
C. Liu, and E. Gu, Applied Physics Letters, 84, p.2253, 2004 
[4] Sheng-Han Tu, Yeeu-Chang Lee, Jin-Kuon Sheu and Jenq-Yang Chang, Narrowing spectral width 
of green LED by GMR structure toexpand the color mixing field, 2006 Fifth International 
Conference on SolidState Lighting, San Diego, USA. 
[5] H. W. Choi, E. Gu, J. M. Girkin, M. D. Dawson, Nitride micro-display with integrated micro-lenses, 
2005 Physica Status Solidi C: Conferences, 2, 2903 2005 
10 
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
■ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                   日期：98年 10 月 9日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：奈微米結構調制 LED 光源配光曲線 
計畫主持人： 李有璋        
計畫編號：NSC 97－2221－E－033－026學門領域：自動化 
技術/創作名稱 奈微米壓印之灰階結構應用於發光二極體與太陽能電池 
發明人/創作人 李有璋、洪献智、邱明正 
技術說明 
中文：本發明揭示了一灰階結構與模具製程，適用於發光二極體元
件與太陽能電池元件。本發明係利用矽基材之矽晶面選擇性與非等
向性濕蝕刻製作三維立體灰階結構之壓印模具為例，並整合壓印製
程與微影製程轉錄圖形於工作基材上，而由於灰階結構具有優良的
抗反射效果，可有效降低表面反射率，因此可有效解決此類元件其
平面內全反射所產生影響發光效率的問題。另外藉由結構的變化，
亦可調制 LED配光曲線。 
英 文 ： This research proposed a mold with gray-level 
structures which can be applied on the LEDs and solar cells. 
We fabricate the Gray-level mold by integrating optical 
lithography, wet etching and imprinting lithography on 
silicon wafer Gray-level structures on LED surface can reduce 
the Frenel reflection and also good to ruin the total internal 
reflection, which can increase the light extraction 
efficiency of LEDs. Meanwhile, micro/nano surface structures 
can also modify the far-field light pattern.    
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
LED磊晶製程廠商 
技術特點 
1. 利用壓印技術有利於重複性與再現性的製程結果 
推廣及運用的價值 
 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送貴單位研發成果
推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 
附件二 
Light Extraction Enhancement by the Fabrication 
of Sub-micron Structures on GaN-based LEDs 
Yeeu-Chang Lee
*
, Ming-Jheng Ciou, Cing-Huai Ni, 
Jean-Shen Huang 
Department of Mechanical Engineering 
Chung Yuan Christian University 
Jhongli, Taiwan  
yclee@cycu.edu.tw 
Sheng-Han Tu, Jenq-Yang Chang 
Department of Optics and Photonics 
National Central University 
Jhongli, Taiwan 
Yu-Chieh Huang, Kuo-Chen Wu, Shih-Wen Chung, Wei-Kai Wang and Chi-Shen Lee 
Huga Optotech Inc. 
Taichung, Taiwa 
 
 
Abstract—A cost effective and high throughput imprinting technique is integrated to conventional light emitting diodes (LEDs) chip 
process to enhance the light extraction efficiency. Sub-micron surface texture composed of spin on glass (SOG) is directly imprinting 
onto the top of transparent conductive layer (TCL). The electrical performances of LED chips are not damaged after applying the 
sub-micron structure. Compared to LED chips without SOG cover layer, the light extraction efficiency enhancements are 27.6% and 
4.8% for LED chips with two dimensional (2D) hole-array and a planar SOG. 
Keywords-imprinting; LEDs; light extraction efficiency 
14 
 
layer for the InGaN/GaN MQW LED structures. After LED wafer growth, LED wafer with a peak 
wavelength at 460nm was used to combine with our imprinting technique. 
C. Chip process and imprinting procedure 
A detailed process flow to integrate the conventional chip and imprinting process is shown in Fig. 
2. The first step of LED chip process was 240 nm thick indium tin oxide (ITO) deposition onto the 
sample as a TCL, followed partially mesa etching about 1 um depth for exposing the n-GaN by 
introduce coupled plasma (ICP). The mesa area was 300 μm X 300 μm. The ITO pattern was defined 
by optical lithography and through wet etching to reveal the p-GaN area, and then Cr/Au electrode pad 
with thickness 500 Å  and 2500 Å  was deposited both on p-GaN and n-GaN surface by thermal 
evaporator with rapid thermal annealing for p-electrode and n-electrode. The LED chip process was 
completed after the electrode deposition.  
Before the imprinting process, a few nm thick Teflon demolder was spun coated onto mold 
surface as an anti-sticking layer, and then a 0.5 um thick SOG was spun onto a TCL of LED chip. After 
SOG spinning, the sapphire mold was put on the surface of LED chip for surface texture imprinting. 
The imprinting process must be completed within 10 min of the SOG spin coating on the substrate so 
that the material performance decay of SOG can be avoided. Fig. 3 shows the typical imprinting cycle 
involving time, temperature and pressure. The pre-embossing process is the time for imprinting 
equipment standby. The embossing process includied three steps with 1100 nt constant imprinting 
pressure. The first step was 5 minutes room temperature surface texture imprinting, and then the 
temperature was raised to 200℃. Finally, the sapphire mold and LED chip were cooled down to 70℃ 
for demolding. After demolding, the LED chip was annealed in rapid thermal annealing (RTA) for the 
imprinted structure hardening. The refractive index of SOG after annealing is about 1.5.  
As shown in Fig. 2, the SOG covered the whole area of the LED chip surface, thus the areas of the 
electrode pad were exposed by high density plasma (HDP) etching. In order to demonstrate the light 
extraction enhancement effect of the SOG with and without embossed structures. The conventional 
LED chip and the LED chip with planar SOG cover layer were also prepared. 
III. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
The imprinting structure on LED TCL is shown in Fig. 4. The inset picture shows the local 
magnification of imprinting surface texture. The imprinted SOG hole-array surface texture presents a 
tilt side wall profile, due to the anisotropic wet etching of sapphire mold. The diameter and depth of the 
hole-structures are 0.45 μm and 0.75 μm respectively, and the interval is 0.5 μm. Fig. 4 also exhibits the 
uniformity of imprinting pattern and the relative positions of electrode, p-GaN and n-GaN current 
spreading layer. The imprinting material SOG adopted in this paper possesses superior chemical and 
physical properties compared to traditional imprinting polymer material. The characteristics of annealed 
SOG are stable and robust, so that SOG surface texture can be applied onto LED surface without the 
16 
 
Stockman, “High-power AlGaInN flip-chip light-emitting diodes”, Appl. Phys. Lett. 78, 3379, 
2001. 
[4] K. Orita, S. Tamura, T. Takizawa, T. Ueda, M. Yuri, S. Takigawa, and D. Ueda,  
“High-extraction-efficiency blue light-emitting diode suing extended-pitch photonic crystal,” J. 
Jpn. Appl. Phys. 43, 5809-5813, 2004 
[5] A. David, T. Fuji, B. Moran, S. Nakamura, S. P. DenBaars, C. Weisbuch, and H. Benisty, 
“Photonic crystal laser lift-off GaN light-emitting diode” Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 133514 (2006) 
[6] T. X. Lee, K. F. Gao, W. T. Chien and C. C. Sun, “Light extraction analysis of GaN-based 
light-emitting diodes with surface texture and/or patterned substrate” Optics Express 15, 
6670-6676, 2007 
 
Fig. 1. AFM image of the sapphire mold 
 
 
Fig. 2. Schematic illustration of LED chip process 
