高靈敏度 DNA 檢測系統之研究與開發
Development of ultra high sensitive DNA detection system
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-002-216
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日
主持人：陳炳煇 國立台灣大學機械工程學系
計畫參與人員：錢睿宏、楊証皓、黃煒婷 國立台灣大學機械工程學系
ㄧ. 摘要
本計畫研究的目的，除了希望能利用現有專業晶圓代工技術如台積電、聯電所提供之標準
CMOS製程，配合MEMS 後製程處理來製作並開發具有量產能力的生物晶片檢測法。更希望
藉由奈米金粒子、奈米磁球、與DNA 之自組裝技術及生物條碼核酸偵測技術(bio-bar code
DNA detection technique)，來大幅提高檢測的靈敏度 (0.01fM)。並同時將積體電路、微型幫浦、
試液槽及流道整合成一小型檢測系統-μTAS(Micro Total Analysis System)。在本計畫中，新的
突破與創意就是利用奈米磁球、及生物條碼單股核酸偵測技術(bio-bar code ssDNA detection
technique)，來放大被檢測目標DNA 的數目，並利用此放大後DNA 的數目建立多層奈米金結
構，讓通過此奈米電極間多層奈米金結構的電流可以被簡單的儀器如三用電表等測得。
關鍵詞：CMOS 生物晶片、DNA 自組裝技術、生物條碼核酸偵測技術
二. 目的與緣由
Principals
Fig.1 shows the layout of the circuits and Fig. 2 shows the current mirrors of the CMOS chip.
One cascode current mirror is composed of four MOSFETs. The amplification factor of one cascode
current mirror depends only on the ratio of W /L, where W and L denote the width and the length of
the channel of MOSFET, respectively. After considering the range of input current signal, iD1, and
the range of load resistor, Rload, the amplification factor for each cascode current mirror is chosen as:
where iD is the current flowing through MOSFET from source to drain, the subscript 1 and 2
denote the input and amplified currents, respectively. After performing five stages of amplification,
iD3 /iD1 = 105 is obtained, where iD1 is the input current signal from the detection electrodes and iD3
is the output current signal for measurements.
Fig. 1. The layout of the sensing circuits.
(1)
magnitude in DNA identification. The same research group reported another novel DNA electrical
detection method in 2002 [13]. They utilized the binding of oligonucleotide-functionalized gold
nanoparticles in a 20μm gap between two electrodes to vary the impedance of the gap, and used a 
silver enhanced solution to amplify the originally undetectable signal. Tsai et al. [14] presented an
electrical detection method that, instead of silver enhancement, made use of multilayer
self-assembled gold nanoparticles for signal amplification between nanogap electrodes. The same
group used a standard CMOS process to fabricate a DNA biochip for electrical detection of DNA in
2005 [15]. In the studies of Tsai's group [14,15], the detected electric current over multilayer gold
nanoparticles through nanogap electrodes was at an order of nA when the concentration of the target
DNA strand was low. Unfortunately, most detection methods mentioned above utilize expensive
and complicated optical or electrical equipment, and are inconvenient for quick and inexpensive
measurements.
In this study, cascode current mirrors are employed to amplify the low electric current, and a
temperature system is used for single base-pair mismatch detection. The biochip is fabricated by a
standard CMOS fabrication process combined with post-CMOS micromachining processes. The
electrical detection method utilizing a self-assembly gold nanoparticle multilayer without silver
enhancement is used to detect the hybridizations among probe, capture, and target oligonucleotides.
Before taking DNA detection measurements, a self-assembly monolayer of AuNPs is established on
a SiO2 surface between two microelectrodes. Then, capture oligonucleotide strands are immobilized
on the top surface of the self-assembly monolayer of AuNPs. If target oligonucleotide strands are
complementary with the probe and capture oligonucleotide strands in the solution, specific binding
can occur among thiol-modified probe, capture, and target oligonucleotide strands. Finally, through
a self-assembly process between suspended gold nanoparticles and the thiol-modified end of the
probe oligonucleotide strand, multilayer AuNPs on the nanogap surface can be established.
According to the method proposed by Tsai et al. [14], Fig. 3 illustrates the procedure to establish
Fig. 3. The chemical procedures for immobilization of the biomolecules.
When applied to base mismatch detection, hybridization assays are inherently limited in
sensitivity. Detection of a point mutation in the test sequence (e.g., a small segment of genomic
DNA) requires a distinguishable difference in pairing energies between a completely
complementary and a mutated target strand. With only a single mutation in an extended
oligonucleotide, the difference can be very small. In this detection system, temperature, or a thermal
stringency wash, which is compatible with CMOS fabrication process, is the conventional tool for
distinguishing single basepair (bp) mismatch.
On the other hand, the BCA method successfully demonstrates the feasibility of electrical
detection to DNA biochip with MNPs and bio-bar-code DNA that give some results for the
diagnostic biosensor for swift disease detection. Moreover, an electrical detection of DNA
hybridization between the nanogap electrodes can be identified even in the lowest DNA
concentrations. The development added a huge quantity of MMPs that has greater effect upon
providing a powerful tool for detection of the reaction vessel to facilitate the binding DNA
molecular.
(c)
15 minutes to make sure all the particles were dissolved in the solution. Then the three solutions
were mixed in a beaker and stirred it for 30 minutes, at 500 rpm. Here, the aqueous 30 wt% solution
NH4OH was added to the solution at a control pH value (10-11.8). After decantation, the
suspensions were heated at 80°C for 1 hour under continuous mixing and separated by centrifuging
three times in distilled water so as to remove impurities.
The magnetic nanoparticles are approximately spherical and the average size was about 27 ± 4
nm according to the high-resolution transmission electronic microscope (HR-TEM, model: H-7000,
Hitachi). Since preparation of AuNPs and fabrication of nanogap electrodes on silicon wafer are as
those in our prior studies, one can find detailed procedures in those papers.
The procedure for electrical detection of bar-code DNA can be stated as follows. Here, the
materials for DNA chip can be prepared two DNA components. First of all, 1ml MNPs was mixed
with 2 ml of 0.3 M phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) buffer, and then added the first capture DNA
(C1DNA) with the first target DNA (T1DNA) hybridization on MNPs. Four different
concentrations of T1DNA (1 nM, 10 pM, 100 fM, 1fM) solution (50 μL )and C1DNA solution (50 
μL, 0.1 μM) can be hybridizedwith in 24 hours at the room temperature, followed by using a 6000
Gauss permanent magnet and 100 μL of 0.3 M PBS bufer to separate solid and liquid for 3 times.
Moreover, the first probe DNA (P1DNA) (100 μL, 6 μM) and the second capture DNA (C2DNA) 
(100μL, 6 μM) with bar-code DNA (100 μL, 6 μM) hybridization were in 100 μL of 0.3 M PBS on 
AuNPs (100 μL). A 0.3 ml 10% wt% BSA bufer was added and incubated at 37℃ for 2 hours to
stabilize the gold nanoparticles. After the above-mentioned, the C1DNA of MNP-DNA conjugate,
P1DNA of AuNP-DNA conjugate, and T1DNA were hybridized. Furthermore, unbinding
AuNP-DNA conjugate and MNP-DNA conjugate can be separated via a 6000 Gauss permanent
magnet and 0.3 M PBS buffer for 3 times to wash. Finally, C2DNA and bar-code DNA of
three-component MNP-DNA conjugate were denatured by washing with a 0.01 M PBS (0.01 M
NaCl, 10 mM NaH2PO4/Na2HPO4, pH 7) buffer for 5 minutes at room temperature. By this method,
(b)
Fig.4 The procedure for bar-code DNA with magnetic nano-particles.
Except the middle layers, both bottom and top layers were established by using the same
chemical compounds for the different procedures, APTMS for the bottom layer and DNA
hybridization for the top layer. The middle layer was formed by using hexanedithiol as a linking
chemical compound. It was worth noting that the number of middle layer can be greater than one.
APTMS, whose thiol end was bound with gold nanoparticle, modifies silicon oxide substrate
surface. To perform the detection of bar-code DNA, C1DNA (100 μL, 1 μM) was washed out in 10
mM HEPES (4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1- piperazineethanesulfonic acid, J. T. Baker Chem. Co.), 5 mM
EDTA buffer, pH 6.6 (HEPES buffer). The self-assembled gold-particle monolayer substrate was
immersed in the C2DNA solution for 15 hours at room temperature, followed by rinsing with 50
mM sodium phosphate, 1 M NaCl, pH 6.5 (SPSC buffer) to remove non-covalently bound DNA,
and was dried under N2. The substrate was immersed in four different concentrations of bar-code
DNA (1 nM, 10 pM, 100 fM, 1fM, 24-mer) solution (100 μL) and P2DNA solution (12-mer, 100
μL, 0.1 μM) for 2 hours to hybridize, folowed by immersing in a SPSC bufer to remove excess 
reagents. The substrate was then immersed in a solution of AuNPs in 0.3 M PBS buffer (0.3 M
NaCl, 10 mM NaH2PO4/Na2HPO4, pH 7), followed by washing with the 0.3 M PBS buffer to
remove excess AuNPs and was dried under N2. If hybridization among DNAs (P2DNA, C2DNA /
bar-code DNA) does occur, the top layer of gold nanoparticles is established between nanogap
electrodes. If there is no hybridization, only monolayer of gold nanoparticles is established.
However, a higher electrical current can be detected through self-assembly multilayer gold
三. 完成結果與實驗討論
Fig. 5 shows the completed CMOS biochip. Since dry etching gas exhibits high selectivity
between aluminum and SiO2, the metal layers can be used as an etching mask. Due to anisotropic
etching of SiO2 by RIE, the pattern of microelectrodes is formed defined by the layers of metal 2
and via 1. Microelectrodes lie on the layer of metal 1. The reaction ion etching continues until the
microelectrodes appear. The surface of the nanogap between microelectrodes is still made of SiO2
for DNA immobilization.
Fig.5 The results of the post CMOS process procedures.
Fig. 5(a) and (b) illustrate the micrograph of the CMOS biochip before and after
post-micromachining process, respectively. This chip is fabricated by TSMC 0.35μm 2P4M 
standard CMOS process, with a dimension of 1 mm × 3 mm, and there are 80 measuring spots on
the biochip. The nanogap is 350 nm in width, 5μm in length, and 2μm in thickness.
(a)
(b)
Fig.7 The I-V curves of the measurement results. (a) single layer of AuNPs, (b) double layer of
AuNPs.
Fig. 7(a) and (b) show the I –V characteristic curves of the monolayer and multilayer gold
nanoparticle structure over a 350 nm gap without current amplifier circuit, respectively. In this study,
we use the semiconductor device analysis system (HP 4156) to measure the electrical signals. The
noise level of this machine is about several fA and the scanning rate for the I–V curve measurement
is 10 mV/s. After successful immobilization of the gold nanoparticle monolayer on the gap, the
electric current passing through the two microelectrodes is lower than 10 pA ( Fig. 7 (a)) with an
applied voltage of 1 V. Although gold nanoparticles do not contact directly with each other, the
current passing through the microelectrodes is still detectable. It is assumed to be the result of the
tunneling effect through isolated gold nanoparticles. The measured I –V curve for the gold
detection process are as follows.
Finally, the measured spot is rinsed with a PBS solution before adding gold nanoparticles. If
there is no hybridization among the oligonucleotide strands, all the probe oligonucleotide and target
oligonucleotide will be washed away. No gold nanoparticles would be attached to the capture
oligonucleotide immobilized on the gold nanoparticle monolayer. However, if complementary
hybridization occurs between oligonucleotide strands, gold nanoparticle probes can be attached to
the thiol-modified probe oligonucleotide to form multilayer of gold nanoparticles for electrical
detection. Fig. 8 (b) is the photograph of the whole experimental setup of the integrated microfluidic
device. Syringe pump (KDS, 101) is used to pump fluids in microchannel of this microfluidic chip.
Fig.9 the comparison of the measurements.
Fig. 9 illustrates the comparison of the current signals of the monolayer and multilayer gold
nanoparticle structure over a 350 nm nanogap with and without the current amplifier circuit. The
electric signal (mA) of the multilayer gold nanoparticle structure over the nanogap could be detected
by a commercial Volt-ohm-Milliammeter. After combining the microelectrodes with the current
amplifier circuit, the current signals of the monolayer and multilayer gold nanoparticle structure are
successfully amplified to the level of 1μA and 1mA, respectively.
temperature. If the hybridization among DNAs is not fully complementary, the top layer of AuNPs
is washed away. As a result, the electrical current is reduced significantly back to a value that is
obtained for self-assembly gold nanoparticle monolayer. The measurable I-V curves of the array
biochip are obtained from a HP 4156A precision semiconductor parameter analyzer in the voltage
ranges from -1 to +1 V with a scan rate of 1 mV/s. The noise produced in regular electronic devices
would render it impossible to detect the current signal at a pico-ampere level unless the signals can
be amplified without noise interference. Usually, pico-ampere level electric signal can only be
detected with some extremely sensitive instrument (e.g. HP 4156 Semiconductor Device Analysis
System). In this study, the current mirrors have been effective in amplifying the signal through both
the monolayer and multilayer gold nanoparticles, and thus have allowed us to obtain the current
through multilayer gold nanoparticles with a common commercial Volt-ohm-Milliammeter.
The 1 fM to100 fM T1DNA measurement with and without BCA shows the different results in
Fig. 12. The FE-SEM images show the particles distribution different from with and without using
BCA method. The BCA procedure described above provides a versatile and distinct I-V curve for
DNA detection.
Fig. 12. The FE-SEM of the different concentrations of targets (A) 1 nM, (B) 10 pM, (C) 100 fM,
and (D) 1 fM.
Current-voltage (I-V) behavior of the devices is measured as shown in Fig. 13. The larger
concentration of T1DNA would make the larger current. In these figures, the I-V curves show the
specific DNA sequences. CMOS process, which is widely applied to digital and analog IC, is very
common and standard in the semiconductor industry. This means that CMOS based instruments by
mass production can be of relatively low cost for the healthcare industry. The characteristics of
CMOS chips make this device very attractive to be developed as personalized clinical diagnostic
instruments.
The BCA method mentioned in the previous section is implemented. In this study, the analysis
successfully demonstrate the feasibility of electrical detection to DNA biochip with MNPs and
bio-bar-code DNA that give some results for the diagnostic biosensor for swift disease detection.
Moreover, an electrical detection of DNA hybridization between the nanogap electrodes can be
identified even in the lowest DNA concentrations. Significantly, concepts for the electrical detection
of nanostructural differences in DNA sequences that can be easily manipulate the magnetically
labeled target DNA. Therefore, the development added a huge quantity of MMPs that has greater
effect upon providing a powerful tool for detection of the reaction vessel to facilitate the binding
DNA molecular. The interrelated application for the biological samples of DNA biochip with BCA
method to improve the commercial potential of the novel biochip platform is foreseen.
Measurable current through nanogap electrodes can be obtained over multilayer gold
nanoparticles. In this way, magnetic nanoparticles and bio-bar-code DNA are used to amplify
obtainable current through nanogap electrodes from the extremely low concentration of target DNA.
The detective concentration of target DNA with electrical DNA biosensor is as low as 1 fM for the
analysis of current-voltage curves.
成果列表:
預期完成之工
作項目
執行情形 差異性
1.
奈米電極
經由量測電阻值，辨識原本未接通之電極間
隙，已由DNA 與奈米金微粒所組成的電橋而導
通。
無差異
2.
電訊號放大電路
將電流訊號放大至毫安培等級，以利後續電訊
號處理及偵測。
無差異
3.
Bar-Code
磁球放大訊號
之功能
靈敏度足以媲美PCR 技術；甚至還可以檢測
出單一鹼基錯配(single-base mismatches)的情形
無差異
4.
微流體系統方面
流體驅動元件整合完成將CMOS晶片整合，並
接線以量測電訊號。
無差異
五. 發表文獻
本計畫目前為止完成之結果已有二篇獲得國際知名期刊接受，並有兩篇獲得國際研討會接
受口頭發表研究成果。
1. Y. T. Cheng, C. Y. Tsai, and P. H. Chen, 2006, “Development of an Integrated CMOS DNA
[4] Chen, J.H.; Chen, T.F.; Huang, R.S.; Gong, J.; Li, J.C.; Chen, W.C.; Hseu, T.H.; Hsu, I.C., "A
novel micro-well array chip for liquid phase biomaterial processing and detection" Sens.
Actuators A: Phys. 2003 pp. 193-200
[5] Albers, J.; Grunwald, T.; Nebling, E.; Piechotta, G.; Hintsche, R., "Electrical biochip
technology—a tool for microarrays and continuous monitoring" Anal. Bioanal. Chem. 2003 pp.
521-527
[6] Li, J.; Xue, M.; Lu, Z.; Zhang, Z.K.; Feng, C.G.; Chan, M.S., "A high-density conduction-based
micro-DNA identification array fabricated with a CMOS compatible process" IEEE Trans.
Electr. Dev. 2003 pp. 2165-2170
[7] Moreno-Hagelsieb, L.; Lobert, P.E.; Pampin, R.; Bourgeois, D.; Remacle, J.; Flandre, D.,
"Sensitive DNA electrical detection based on interdigitated Al/Al2O3 microelectrodes" Sens.
Actuators B: Chem. 2004 pp. 269-274
[8] Guiducci, C.; Stagni, C.; Zuccheri, G.; Bogliolo, A.; Benini, L.; Samori, B.; Riccò, B., "DNA
detection by integrable electronics" Biosens. Bioelectron. 2004 pp. 781-787
[9] Kim, D.S.; Jeong, Y.T.; Park, H.J.; Shin, J.K.; Choi, P.; Lee, J.H.; Lim, G., "An FET-type
charge sensor for highly sensitive detection of DNA sequence" Biosens. Bioelectron. 2004 pp.
69-74
[10] Taton, T.A.; Mirkin, C.A.; Letsinger, R.L., "Scanometric DNA array detection with
nanoparticle probes" Science 2000 pp. 1757-1760
[11] Taton, T.A.; Mucic, R.C.; Mirkin, C.A.; Letsinger, R.L., "The DNA-mediated formation of
supramolecular nano- and multilayered nanoparticle structures" J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2000 pp.
6305-6306
