Proceeding of Medical Informatics Symposium in Taiwan 2007 (MIST2007), 2007. (Accepted,
will be published on November, 2007)
(二) 中、英文摘要及關鍵詞
摘要
人類基因組定序的完成，可以說是本世紀以來生物醫學領域最傑出的研究成果，其不僅提供了有關人類
基因的大量資料，也開啟了一個全新的有關疾病(如癌症)的研究方向，自從高通量技術，如微陣列實驗技術，在
1990 年代掘起成為量測基因表現的技術後，開發新型電腦技術應用來解析微陣列基因表現資料已成為生物資訊
領域內的最重要研究方向之一。 特別是在基因調控網路的研究中，微陣列實驗技術允許同時探測上萬個不同基
因在各種不同的實驗條件下的表現程度；經由此種大量的資料使得基因間的交互作用及調控網路的研究成為可
能。 然而也因為微陣列基因表現資料的過度龐大，使得如何分析資料及解釋結果成為生物資訊研究裡急待開發
的領域。本計畫開發出一套基因網路分析系統(GNAS)，此系統不僅能夠從酵母菌微陣列基因表現資料裏建構出
基因網路，也能夠比較利用五種貝氏網路建構基因網路的表現優異性。本系統結合 MatLabLab 的處理能力及
LabVIEW 的動態圖形介面。 本計畫開發五種貝氏網路演算法進行四種微陣列基因資料分析，並且進一步比較演
算法的執行時間、敏感度及準確度，就我們所知，本計畫所開發的方法及介面是基因網路研究領域的創新作
法。
關鍵字：基因網路、微陣列資料分析、貝氏網路、智慧系統、生物資訊
本計畫的執行成果非常傑出、目前已有十篇論文被接受、包括一篇專書 Paper、四篇 Journal
Papers 及五篇 Conference Papers
Abstract
The completion of Human Genome Project has been recognized as a great achievement in biomedical study; it not
only provides information regarding human genes but also provides a new way to study human diseases such as cancers.
How to analyze and interpret the results from massive amounts of gene expression profiles generated from high-
throughput techniques such as microarray experiments has become a major challenge in the post-genomic research era.
In this paper, we present a gene network analysis system (GNAS) that can not only generate gene networks of yeast cell
cycle from experimental microarray data but can also compare the performance of gene networks using five different
Bayesian network algorithms. The system utilizes both powerful MatLab processing ability and LabVIEW dynamic
interfaces in a single platform. The gene networks of the yeast cell cycle were constructed based on five Bayesian network
algorithms from four different microarrays of experimental data. Performance, such as computer time, sensitivity, and
precision, was compared for these five algorithms. To our knowledge, this is the first design approach of its kind to be
used in the study of gene networks.
Keywords: Gene Networks、Microarray Data Analysis、 Bayesian Network Algorithms、 Intelligence System、
Bioinformatics
(三) 報告內容
GNAS: A tool for analyzing performance of gene networks generated from
Bayesian network algorithms
Three kinds of datasets were used in this study. The first two datasets are ALARM [1] and Asia [14]. These two
datasets were commonly used in Bayesian network. The known structure of Alarm and Asia networks were used in the
comparison of the performance from different Bayesian network algorithms.
The third dataset used in this study is S. cerevisiae cell cycle gene expression data collected by Spellman et al. [18].
This dataset contains four medium time series: 18, 24, 17 and 14 time series points for alpha, cdc15, cdc28 and elu
respectively. In the estimation of a gene network, we use each of the three medium time series, alpha, cdc15, and cdc28.
After normalization of the gene expression data, we represented these values into three classes based on  Friedman’s 
threshold value of 0.5 [10]. The data were represented into 3 discrete values:
The results were compared with know YPL256C sub network [6]. In order to compare the performance of gene network
generated from different Bayesian network algorithms [13], we defined precision and sensitivity as Formula 1 and Formula
2.
networkreferencein theedgesofnumber
edgesestimatedcorrectlyofnumber
ySensitivit 
Formula 1: Sensitivity of gene network
edgesestimatedallofnumber
edgesestimatedcorrectlyofnumber
Precision
Formula 2: Precision of gene network
The greater the number of correct edges, the better the sensitivity. A higher number of sensitivity and precision
indicates better performance of the gene network.
3. Bayesian Network Algorithms
The gene networks of the yeast cell cycle were constructed using Bayesian network algorithms from four different
microarray experimental data. Five computer algorithms were developed in the construction of gene networks. Among
them are Power Constructor (PC) algorithm, Hill Climbing (HC) algorithm, Maximum-Weight Spanning Tree (MWST)
algorithm, K2 algorithm, and MWST+K2 algorithm.
Table 1. Comparison of five Bayesian network algorithms
K2 algorithm
The K2 algorithm is the most widely used in Bayesian network structure
learning algorithm. It is well known as a general method for inferring
inter-node relations in a given node group based on a complete database
free of missing data [22].
MWST
algorithm
MWST algorithm is developed by Chow and Liu [4]. This algorithm
searches for the optimal tree structure by using the computed mutual
information as edge weights [4]. The MWST associates a weight to each
connection. The weight represents the mutual information between the
two variables. When the weight matrix is created, the MWST algorithm
gives an optimal tree structure.
K2+MWST
algorithm
The combination of K2 and MWST algorithms will provide a better
quality of network by speeding the execution efficiency. A known order
of nodes was calculated from MWST algorithm first, and then was used
in the K2 algorithm.
Data representation
under-expressed = -1
normal expressed = 0
over-expressed = +1
Figure 2. The Matlab scrip node generated from LabVIEW
4.2 System flow path
Figure 3 shows an overall flow path in the execution of this system. A Select interface will be displayed to guide the
users how to run the program. By selecting the desired algorithm, GNAS will load the gene data and then the system
constructed network from the selected gene dataset. After the display of the gene network, the performance will then be
calculated and showed in the summary table.
Figure 3. Design flow path of the system
4.3 System Interfaces
The main functions of the GNAS interface include: (1) Algorithm selection section, users select the desired algorithm;
(2) Network selection section, users select a desired network; (3) Dataset selection section, only display if cell cycle is
clicked; (4) Execute icon, users click to run the program; (5) Clear icon, users click to clear all selections and release
memory space; (6) Gene network display section, display the resulted gene network; (7) Status slide bar section, shows the
current execute status; (8) Summary table, displays summaries of users requests; and (9) Exit icon, exits the interface.
When the users select one of the five Bayesian Network algorithms, the available network will be automatically
displayed. Furthermore, if the users select cell cycle, four dataset types will then be displayed. After selecting the data set
and clicking the Execute button, the light will turn to red as shown in Figure 4. The red light informs the users that the
process is currently running. The slider bar on the right side will show the execution status.
Select algorithm
and dataset
interface
Load gene data
Generate gene
network
Show gene
network
Analyzing
gene network
Show data of system
performance
Figure 6. A screen of the system interface after the execution is completed for the K2 algorithm and the Alarm network.
Figure 7. A screen of the system interface after the execution is completed for the K2 algorithm and the Asia network.
5.2 Gene networks of the yeast cell cycle
GNAS can generate gene networks based on the selected algorithm and dataset. In Figure 8, we showed two gene
networks generated from two experimental microarray datasets: one was from the cdc_28 dataset, and the other was from
the cdc_15 dataset.
(a)
By comparing the sensitivity and precision of gene networks generated from six datasets using the K2 algorithm, it was
found that the gene network constructed from the Asia dataset has the best performance (Figure 11). Both sensitivity and
precision were at 100 percent accuracy. The gene networks constructed from the cell cycle datasets, however, were around
50 percent sensitivity.
In addition, we compared gene networks constructed based on 5 algorithms from the same dataset. It was notable that
the HC algorithm had the longest computer time with the worst performance (Figure 10 and 12).
K2
87.5
100
70
50
60
50
79.63
100
63.64
27.78
46.15
33.33
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Alarm Asia Cell cycle
all data
Cell cycle
cdc_28
Cell cycle
cdc_15
Cell cycle
Alpha
(%
) Sensitivity
Precision
Figure 11. Comparison of Sensitivity and precision for 6 datasets based on the K2 algorithm
All data
70
30 30
100
20
63.64
27.27 27.27
15.15 18.18
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
K2 MWST K2+MWST PC HC
(%
) Sensitivity
Precision
Figure 12. Comparison of Sensitivity and precision for 5 algorithms based on all data
5.5 Summaries of system performance
Finally, the system performance for all gene networks generated from four experimental microarray datasets using five
Bayesian network algorithms are summarized in Table 2. It was noted that the computer execution times for K2, MWST,
and K2+MWST were all less than one second. Even for the more complicated operations such as the PC and HC
algorithms, the computer execution time was still less than one second. This demonstrates the high efficiency of our
system.
Table 2. Summaries of system performance for all gene networks generated from four experimental microarray datasets using five
Bayesian network algorithms.
Algorithm Network Datatype
Executing
time(sec) Sensitivity Precision
Alarm 28.1 87.5 79.63
Asia 7.72 100 100
All data 0.76 70 63.64
cdc_28 0.98 50 27.78
cdc_15 0.85 60 46.15
K2
Cell
cycle
Alpha 0.89 50 33.33
Alarm 4.48 32.61 41.67MWST
Asia 7.92 62.5 71.43
