i  
ABSTRACT 
 In this research project, size and chain length effects on structural behavior of a 
biphenylcyclohexane-based liquid crystal (BCH5H) and its derivatives were examined by a 
coarse-grained model and the configurational-bias Monte Carlo (CBMC) simulation. The 
structural behavior was investigated by inspecting the nonbonded potential energy, the order 
parameter, the moment of inertia, and the equilibrium conformation of the molecular system. It 
was noticed that the intermolecular attraction grows as the system size (i.e., the number of 
molecules) increases. With the increasing attraction, the equilibrium conformation of the 
molecular system changes gradually from a pipe-like structure (for the smaller systems) to a 
ball-like cluster (for the larger systems). The order parameter of the system reduces with the 
transition of the equilibrium conformation. Regarding the chain length effect, the pipe-like 
equilibrium conformation (for the smaller systems) was observed more closed to a pipe as the 
length of the tail alkyl chain of the derivatives extended. The order parameter of the long-chain 
system rises because of the increasing attraction between the intertwining tail chains. 
 
Keywords: Coarse-grained model; Linked vectors; Configurational-bias Monte Carlo simulation; 
Order parameter; Moment of inertia; Equilibrium conformation 
 
摘要 
本計畫以粗粒簡化模型及 CBMC 模擬法來探討尺寸效應與鏈長效應對於 BCH5H 液晶分子及
其衍生物之結構行為的影響。研究中係藉由檢視系統之非鍵結位能、慣性矩、平衡形態等，來探討
系統之尺寸效應與鏈長效應對於液晶分子結構行為之影響。由研究之結果可知，當系統尺寸（即分
子數目）增大時， BCH5H 液晶分子間之吸引力隨之增強，其平衡形態呈現由似管狀結構（對於小
系統而言）逐漸轉變成似球狀之團簇結構。而隨著其平衡形態的轉變，系統之秩序參數亦隨之降低。
而且當 BCH5H 分子之衍生物的尾鏈（烷鏈）長度愈長時，此似管狀結構（對於小系統而言）將更
接近於管狀，並且分子間纏繞的現象愈明顯，而系統之秩序參數亦因分子間的明顯纏繞，而隨之升
高。 
 
關鍵詞：粗粒簡化模型、鏈結向量、CBMC 模擬法、秩序參數、慣性矩、平衡形態 
1  
1. INTRODUCTION 
Liquid crystals (LC) have been extensively applied in microdisplays [1] and focusing system 
[2]. For these applications, the main objective is to increase their optical efficiency. With recent 
advances in bio-technology, liquid crystals can also be used to reproduce the effects of naturally 
occurring lens systems [3-5]. The focal length of the lens is tuned by means of an electric field. 
As the voltage decreases, the liquid crystal lens has a shorter focal length. This application of 
liquid crystals could also lead to innovations in contact-lens materials. 
To realize the possible applications of liquid crystals, the physical properties of liquid 
crystals have been extensively studied by experimental methods. For example, Holstein et al. [6] 
investigated the diffusion coefficient in nematic liquid crystals by the PFG-NMR. Gwag et al. [7] 
studied the polar anchoring energy between LC molecules and polyimide films and found the 
dependence of the pre-tilt angle of the liquid crystals on the orientation and thickness of the 
polyimide films. Somma et al. [8] explored the orientation molecular dynamics in oligofluorenes 
(OFs) by depolarized dynamic light scattering (DLS) and the dynamic NMR spectroscopy. Filpo 
et al. [9] examined the electro-optical and the morphological properties of reverse-mode 
polymer-dispersed liquid crystal (PDLC) films..  
Although the steady-state of liquid crystals can be observed by experiments, there are some 
difficulties in the experimental methods. For instance, the detailed dynamic behavior of liquid 
crystals is hard to be inspected because of resolution limitations of the experimental equipments. 
The computer simulation methods could be used to retrieve the information beyond the 
experimental limitations and to provide dynamic behavior of liquid crystals at an atomic level. 
Molecular dynamics (MD) simulation is a powerful tool facilitating the investigation of detailed 
molecular behavior. As to this aspect, McDonald and Hanna [10] used the MD simulations to 
investigate the terrace of a liquid crystal fluid wetting on a surface. Capar and Cebe [11] 
examined the properties of liquid crystals for different alkyl chain lengths. Peláez and Wilson [12] 
performed MD simulations for a 2,5-bis-(p-hydroxyphenyl)-1,3,4-oxadiazole mesogen 
(ODBP-PH-C7) at various temperatures. Besides, Mirantsev and Virga [13] studied a nanoscopic 
nematic twist cell confined between two bounding substrates.. 
While the MD simulation is a powerful tool for the investigation of detailed behavior of 
molecular systems, it is not efficient to perform over a long period of time to allow relaxation of 
the liquid crystals. The problem is more significant for a system containing a large number of 
molecules. Many simplified methods have been developed to overcome the difficulty of the MD 
simulation. The coarse-grained method is one of the simplified methods commonly used for the 
analysis of liquid crystals. Regarding this method, many coarse-grained models have been 
utilized [14-17] to investigate the behavior of liquid crystals. For instance, Bates [14] adopted the 
bond fluctuation model to find the relation between the phase behavior and the stiffness of large 
flexible liquid crystals. Cifelli et al. [15] examined the order parameter and the diffusion 
coefficient of liquid crystals using the elementary liquid crystal model. Lin et al. [16] employed 
the rod-like molecular model to investigate the order parameter and phase behavior of lyotropic 
liquid crystal solution. In addition, Peter et al. [17] used the structure-based model to simulate 
Calculation of the nonbonded interaction energy is important for coarse-grained modeling. 
In the present study, a continuous spherically symmetric effective potential energy, Ueff, was 
employed to calculate the nonbonded interaction energy, which can be written as [20] 
'ln),( UBeff eTkTrU
β−−=  (1) 
where r is the between two beads of the linked-vector model, T the system temperature, kB the 
Boltzmann constant, U’ the potential energy, and β = 1/( k
B
BB
]
]
T). The angled bracket pair in Eq. (1) 
represents the angular average for a fixed value of r. The potential energy U’ is determined from 
the nonbonded interaction of the fully atomistic model of CG units by using the ENCAD force 
field, which can be expressed by 
elsvdw UUU +='  (2) 
where Uvdw is the van der Waals energy and Uels is the electrostatic energy. They have the 
following forms [22]: 
Uvdw =  (3) [∑ −−
ji
ijvdwij
ijij
ij
ijij
sc rSrrrrA
,
6
0
12
0 )()/(2)/( εε
Uels =  (4) [∑ −
ji
ijelsij
ji rSrqq
,
)(/
where rij indicates the distance between nonbonded atoms i and j, Asc is used to compensate for 
the interaction lost at small cutoff distances, and qi and qj stand for the partial charges of atoms i 
and j, respectively. The energy parameter ( ), the distance parameter ( ), the partial charges 
(q
ijε ijr0
i and qj ), and the truncation shift functions (Svdw and Sels) can be found from the ENCAD force 
field [22]. In this research, this cutoff distance was selected as 9 Å and the value for Asc was 
specified as 0.84. 
The effective potential energy with respect to the bead distance for the linked-vector model 
of BCH5H (Figure 1) is shown in Figure 2. For ease of representation, only the potential energy 
for part of beads was displayed. It is evident from Figure 2(a) that the interaction between bead 1 
and bead 3 is apparently stronger than that between bead 1 and other beads. Since bead 3 
(representing the cyclohexyl group in BCH5H) contains the largest number of atoms as compared 
to other beads, the interactions including bead 3 are larger than those between other pairs. Thus, 
the interaction between bead 3 and bead 3 (from a different chain) is largest, as can be seen from 
Figure 2(b) where the strongest attraction was observed to occur at a bead distance of about 4.8 
Å. 
2.2  The configurational-bias Monte Carlo simulation 
The configurational-bias Monte Carlo (CBMC) simulation is a molecular simulation 
3  
Since the energy in Figure 4 is negative, the interaction between BCH5H molecules is 
attraction dominant. This attraction makes the molecules form a clustered equilibrium 
conformation (as shown in Figure 5). The attraction strength was noticed to increase as the 
number of chains m of the system size grows. When the number of chains is greater than 75, the 
attraction strength tends to approach a constant value. This indicates that for the molecular 
system with m larger than 75, the molecules have nearly identical interaction strength－a 
characteristic approaching buck BCH5H. 
The order parameter P2 in Figure 4 was determined by [11] 
2
1cos3 2
2
−= θP  (5) 
where P2 is the second-rank order parameter common used in the analysis of liquid crystals, and 
the value for cosθ  is written as 
nu ⋅=θcos  (6) 
where u is a unit vector representing the long axis direction of a certain molecule in the molecular 
system and can be calculated from the eigenvector corresponding to the smallest eigenvalue of 
the moment of the inertia tensor for the specific molecule. The unit vector n stands for the 
director of the molecular system and can be found by diagonalizing a second-rank ordering tensor 
Q of the system [11]. The angled bracket pair used in Eq. (5) denotes the ensemble and time 
average. From definition of the order parameter, Eq. (6), the molecular system tends to isotropic 
(in a disordered conformation) as P2 approaches zero, whereas behaves like a crystal (in an 
ordered-arranged conformation) as P2 approaches unity. 
From Figure 4, the order parameters of the molecular systems were seen not to have 
monotonous dependence upon the system size. However, it tends to decrease, on average, with an 
increase in the number of chains (m). For molecular systems with fewer molecules, the molecules 
were observed to arrange in a more ordered manner than those with a larger system size. The 
non-monotonous dependence of the order parameter, especially for m < 15, might be ascribed to 
the fewer molecules sampled in the calculation of the average order parameter. 
Figure 5 displays the equilibrium conformations for the BCH5H molecular systems with the 
number of chains m = 3, 6, 10, and 15. It was noticed that for the systems with fewer molecules 
(m = 3 and 6), the equilibrium conformations exhibit a pipe-like structure and the molecules seem 
to intertwine along the pipe axis. The intertwining of the molecules is due to the stronger 
intermolecular attraction from the cyclohexyl group (bead 3), shown in Figure 2. Because the tail 
alkyl chain (beads 4 and 5) is more flexible than the phenyl group (beads 1 and 2), a large 
bending angle between beads 3 and 4 is thus formed due to the stronger attraction. The large 
bending angle causes the molecules more easily to intertwine along the pipe axis. It should be 
noted that the intertwining-pipe structure is formed to reduce the surface area of the molecular 
system and to obtain a more stable configuration. This behavior can also be observed in our 
previous studies about gold nanowires, which also exhibit helical structures as the diameters of 
the gold nanowires are smaller than 1 nm [24, 25]. 
5  
7  
The chain length effect was investigated by considering the structural behavior of the BCH5H 
molecule and its derivatives. To discuss the chain length effect, the derivatives were selected by 
varying the number of carbon atoms in the R group of the biphenylcyclohexane series BCHRR’. 
In this work we compared the structural behavior of molecules with R = C3H7, C5H11 (i.e., 
BCH5H), C7H15, and C11H23, remaining R’ unchanged (i.e., R’ = H). Similar to the 
coarse-grained modeling for the BCH5H molecule, the molecules were modeled by linked 
vectors with various repeated tail units, as shown in Figure 8. The number of linked vectors n 
used in the models is four, five, six, and eight for R = C3H7, C5H11, C7H15, and C11H23, 
respectively. Since only the number of the repeated linked vectors was altered, the effective 
potential energy calculated for the BCH5H molecule can also be applied to the CBMC simulation 
method. 
The size effect on the structural behavior of the molecules with various tail lengths was 
observed to be similar to that on the BCH5H molecules. As the system size (i.e., the number of 
molecules m) grows, the intermolecular attraction increases and the equilibrium conformation of 
the system changes from a pipe-like structure to a ball-like cluster. As a result, the order 
parameter P2 of the system decreases, on average, with the increase of the system size. 
The pipe-like structure of the smaller molecular system is of special interest in this study. 
We examined the effect of tail length on the conformation of the smaller system. Figure 9 shows 
the equilibrium conformations for the systems with the number of molecules m = 6 and various 
numbers of linked vectors n. The pipe-like conformations for the smaller systems were noticed 
from the figure. The intertwining of the molecules due to the stronger intermolecular attraction 
from the cyclohexyl group (bead 3) was also observed. The intertwining behavior is more evident 
for the system with n = 6. This leads to the apparent reduction in the order parameter P2 of the 
molecular system, as can be seen from Table 1.  
Table 1 also lists the ratios g2/g1 and g3/g1 for the molecular systems with various tail lengths. 
It was noted that for the system with n = 8, the ratios are much lower than those of the other 
systems. The obvious decrease in the ratios causes the equilibrium conformation of the system 
more approaching to a pipe structure as compared with that of the other systems, shown in Figure 
9(d). The pipe structure also results in the evident rise in the order parameter of the system as can 
be seen from Table 1. The tendency to form a pipe equilibrium conformation results from the 
increasing attraction between the tail alkyl chains of the molecules as the length of the tail chain 
grows. When the attraction between the tail alkyl chains is greater than that from the cyclohexyl 
group, the tail alkyl chains tend to intertwine themselves. The system with a long tail alkyl chain 
hence has a pipe equilibrium conformation. 
 
4. CONCLUSIONS 
Size and chain length effects on structural behavior of a biphenylcyclohexane-based liquid 
crystal (BCH5H) and its derivatives have been investigated by a coarse-grained model and the 
configurational-bias Monte Carlo (CBMC) simulation. The molecule was modeled as a series of 
successive coarse-grained linked vectors along the backbone of the molecule. The ENCAD force 
9  
pretilt angles and polar anchoring energy of liquid crystals, J. Appl. Phys., 100, 093502 
(2006). 
8. E. Somma, C. Chi, B. Loppine, J. Grinshtein, R. Graf, G. Fytas, H. W. Spiess, and G. Wegner, 
Orientation dynamics in isotropic phases of model oligofluorenes: glass or liquid crystal, J. 
Chem. Phys., 124, 204910 (2006). 
9. G. D. Filpo, R. Cassano, L. Tortora, F. P. Nicoletta, and G. Chidichimo, UV tuning of the 
electro-optical and morphology properties in polymer-dispersed liquid crystals, Liq. Crys., 
35, 45 (2008). 
10. A. J. McDonald and S. Hanna, Atomistic computer simulations of terraced wetting of model 
8CB molecules at crystal surfaces, Mol. Crys. Liq. Crys., 413, 135 (2004). 
11. M. I. Caper and E. Cebe, Molecular dynamics study of the odd-even effect in some 
4-n-alkyl-4’-cyanobiphenyls, Phys. Rev. E, 73, 061711 (2006). 
12. J. Peláez and M. R. Wilson, Atomistic simulations of a thermotropic biaxial liquid crystal, 
Phys. Rev. Lett., 97, 267801 (2006). 
13. L. V. Mirantsev and E. G. Virga, Molecular dynamics simulation of a nanoscopic nematic 
twist cell, Phys. Rev. E, 76, 021703 (2007). 
14. M. A. Bates, Coarse grained models for flexible liquid crystals: parameterization of the bond 
fluctuation model, J. Chem. Phys., 120, 2026 (2004). 
15. M. Cifelli, G. Cinacchi, and L. D. Gaetani, Smectic order parameters from diffusion data, J. 
Chem. Phys., 125, 164912 (2006). 
16. S. Lin, N. Numasawa, T. Nose, and J. Lin, Coarse-grained molecular dynamic simulations 
for lyotropic liquid-crystalline solutions of semiflexible rod-like molecules, Mol. Crys. Liq. 
Crys., 466, 53 (2007). 
17. C. Peter, L. D. Site, and K. Kremer, Classical simulations from the atomistic to the 
mesoscale and back: coarse graining an azobenzene liquid crystal, Soft Matter, 4, 859 
(2008). 
18. W. J. Lee, S. P. Ju, Y. C. Wang, and J. G. Chang, Modeling of polyethylene and poly 
(L-lactide) polymer blends and diblock copolymer: chain length and volume fraction effects 
on structural arrangement, J. Chem. Phys., 127, 064902 (2007). 
19. H. J. Muller and W. Haase, Refractive indices, density and order parameters for some 
biphenyl cyclohexanes, Mol. Crys. Liq. Crys., 409, 127 (2004). 
20. T. C. Clancy, Multi-scale modeling of polyimides, Polymer, 45, 7001 (2004). 
21. D. Frenkel, Understanding Molecular Simulation, Academic, San Diego, 2002. 
22. M. Levitt, M. Hirshberg, R. Sharon, and V. Daggett, Potential energy function and 
parameters for simulations of the molecular dynamics of proteins and nucleic acids in 
solution, Comput. Phys. Commun., 91, 215 (2005). 
23. D. Zhang, Z. Liu, and R. Xu, Monte Carlo simulation of the adsorption of C2-C7 linear 
alkanes in aluminophosphate AlPO4-11, Mol. Sim., 33, 1247 (2007). 
24. S. P. Ju, J. S. Lin, and W. J. Lee, A molecular dynamics study of the tensile behaviour of 
ultrathin gold nanowires, Nanotechnology, 15, 1221 (2004). 
 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16
distance (Å)
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
en
er
gy
 ( 
kc
al
/m
ol
)
bead1-bead1
bead1-bead2
bead1-bead3
bead1-bead4
bead1-bead5
 
(a) 
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16
distance (Å)
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
en
er
gy
 ( 
kc
al
/m
ol
)
bead3-bead3
bead3-bead4
bead3-bead5
 
(b) 
Figure 2.  Effective potential energy for the BCH5H model: (a) energy between bead 1 and 
each bead; (b) energy between bead 3 and beads 3, 4, and 5. 
11  
  
(a) m = 3 
 
(b) m = 6 
 
(c) m = 10 
 
(d) m = 15 
Figure 5.  Equilibrium conformations for the BCH5H molecular systems with (a) m = 3, (b) m = 
6, (c) m = 10, and (d) m = 15 (m: number of molecules). The left shows the front view and the 
right shows the side view of the conformations. 
13  
 Figure 8.  The linked-vector model of derivatives of the BCH5H molecule with n = 4, 6, 8, 
respectively. 
 
 
 
(a) n = 4 
 
(b) n = 5 
 
(c) n = 6 
 
(d) n = 8 
Figure 9.  Equilibrium conformations for the systems with m = 6 and various chain lengths (a) n 
= 4, (b) n = 5, (c) n = 6, and (d) n = 8 (n: number of linked vectors). The left shows the front view 
and the right shows the side view of the conformations. 
15  
17  
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
■可申請專利  □可技術移轉                                      日期：97年10月25日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：液晶分子結構特性之研究 
計畫主持人：廖明亮 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E－344－003－ 學門領域：航太工程
技術/創作名稱 Size and chain length effects on structural behavior of liquid crystals by a coarse-grained configurational-bias Monte Carlo method 
發明人/創作人 廖明亮／朱訓鵬 
中文：本技術以粗粒簡化模型及 CBMC 模擬法來探討尺寸效應與
鏈長效應對於 BCH5H 液晶分子及其衍生物之結構行為的影響。技
術係藉由檢視系統之非鍵結位能、慣性矩、平衡形態等，來研究系
統鏈長效應對於液晶分子結構行為之影響。此技術可彌補傳統上以
分子動力學（全原子模型）模擬時，計算費時之缺憾，而得到相當
準確之液晶分子系統的結構行為。 
技術說明 英 文 ： The technology used a coarse-grained model and the 
configurational-bias Monte Carlo (CBMC) simulation to examine size and 
chain length effects on structural behavior of liquid crystals. The structural 
behavior is evaluated by inspecting the nonbonded potential energy, the 
moment of inertia, and the equilibrium conformation of the liquid crystal 
molecular system. This technology could simplify the simulation model 
and raise the computational efficiency evidently for inspection of 
structural behavior of liquid crystal systems, as compared to the full 
atomic simulation model－molecular dynamics simulations. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
液晶顯示器相關產業 
技術特點 此技術可彌補傳統上以分子動力學（全原子模型）模擬時，計算費時之缺憾，而得到相當準確之液晶分子系統的結構行為。 
推廣及運用的價值 可提升國內液晶顯示器相關產業之研發設計能量，提高產業之附加價值。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位研發成果
推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
1  
 
一、 會議名稱：The Fifth International Conference on Computational Fluid Dynamics 
(ICCFD5) 
二、 會議日期：July  7-11, 2008 
三、 會議地點：Seoul National University, Seoul, KOREA 
四、 主辦單位：Korean Society of Mechanical Engineers  
   Korean Society for Aeronautical and Space Science 
五、 協辦單位：National Aeronautics and Space Administration (USA) 
  Institute of Advanced Machinery and Design, Seoul National University 
  Korean Society of Computational Fluid Engineering 
六、 會議議題： 
1.  Innovative modeling of flow physics 
2.  Innovative algorithm development for flow simulation 
3.  Advanced multidisciplinary applications using innovative technologies 
七、 發表論文題目：Conformations of PMMA Thin Films on an Au (111) Substrate: 
Chain-length and Tacticity Effects 
八、 會議心得： 
個人得以有機會參加本次ICCFD5國際學術研討會，得感謝行政院國家科學委員會專題
研究計畫之補助與支持，使個人能有機會與多位國際知名專家學者，在計算流體力學領域
上，交換研究心得與增廣見聞，受益良多。 
ICCFD（International Conference on Computational Fluid Dynamics）係兩年舉行一次之
國際性計算流體力學學術研討會，今年是第五屆會議，會議由韓國首爾大學主辦。前面四
屆分別在日本京都（ICCFD1, 2000）、澳洲雪梨（ICCFD2, 2002）、加拿大多倫多（ICCFD3, 
2004）、比利時根特（ICCFD4, 2006）等地舉行。此研討會每屆皆吸引了來自世界各地有關
計算流體力學的專家學者的廣泛興趣與熱烈的參與。本次會議規劃了三場主題演講
（Keynote lecture）與五場大會演講（Plenary lecture），會議中共有近160篇論文發表，包含
138篇報告論文（每篇報告時間與討論計30分鐘）與28篇張貼論文。 
本次會議吸引了來自世界各地近200位專家學者熱烈參與，而台灣地區亦有11篇論文於
會議中發表，包含了台灣大學、成功大學、中山大學、暨南國際大學、台灣海洋大學、屏
東科技大學、高雄應用科技大學、國防大學、空軍航空技術學院、高雄醫學大學、南台科
  
 
會場實景 1 
 
 
 
 
會場實景 2 
 
3  
Fifth International conference on Computational Fluid Dynamics 
  July 7-11, 2008, Seoul, Korea 
 
-225 
Conformations of PMMA Thin Films on an Au (111) Substrate: Chain-length 
and Tacticity Effects 
 
 
Ming-Liang Liao1*, Shin-Pon Ju2, Ching-Ho Cheng2, Wen-Jay Lee2, Jee-Gong Chang3
1Department of Aircraft Engineering, Air Force Institute of Technology, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
minsliao@gmail.com (*Corresponding author) 
2Department of Mechanical and Electro-Mechanical Engineering, Center for Nanoscience and 
Nanotechnology, National Sun-Yat-Sen University, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
3National Center for High-Performance Computing, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
 
 
Keywords: density profile, mean square radius of gyration, molecular dynamics simulations 
 
Abstract: Chain-length and tacticity effects on conformations of poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) thin films on 
an Au (111) substrate at room temperature were investigated by means of molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. For 
the thin films with a short chain length (m=5 or 10), the density profile has a remarkable peak in the contact region of 
the thin film but the peak density is not evident for the long-chain case (m=20). On the influence of tacticity, the 
isotactic thin films have a prominent peak density in the contact region regardless of their chain lengths. Moreover, 
the MMA oligomers were found to exhibit a flattened conformation parallel to the Au substrate in the contact region 
and a little flattened conformation in the surface region for both the short-chain and the long-chain thin films. The 
flattened conformation remains in the bulk region for the long-chain case, but it is not present in the bulk region of 
the short-chain film. 
 
Conformations of PMMA thin film on a solid 
substrate are an interesting issue of researchers. In 
recent studies, Lu and Tung (2005) have invoked an 
MD simulation technique to examine the tacticity effect 
on the free volume morphology of PMMA membranes. 
From their work, it was noticed that the syndiotactic 
PMMA membrane has less flexibility in the backbone 
and a longer end-to-end distance than in the isotactic 
PMMA membrane. Prathab et al. (2007) newly used 
MD simulations to explore PMMA-polymer and 
PMMA-metal oxide interactions. The adsorption 
behavior of MMA with several metal oxides (Al2O3, 
Fe2O3, SiO2, and TiO2) was also inspected in their 
work. 
In this paper we extended our previous research 
(Ju et al., 2007) to investigate the structural properties 
of a PMMA thin film on an Au (111) substrate. The 
influence of the chain length and tacticity of MMA 
oligomers on conformations of the thin film, especially 
those near the Au surface, was examined by means of 
MD simulations. This topic, to the best of our 
knowledge, has not been widely studied. The present 
research can provide some detailed insight into the 
chain-length and tacticity effects on structural 
conformations of a PMMA thin film on an Au substrate. 
The MD simulation model used in the present 
research consists of an MMA-oligomer thin film and an 
Au substrate on which the MMA oligomers are 
deposited. There are three different groups of 
interactions existing in the simulation model. In the 
current MD simulations, three different potentials were 
employed to model the three groups of interactions. 
First, the ENCAD (Energy Calculations and Dynamics) 
potential was chosen to model the atomic interaction 
between the intra- and intermolecular interactions of 
MMA oligomers. The interaction between the Au atoms 
of the substrate was described by the tight-binding 
potential, whereas the Dreiding force field was 
employed to model the interaction between the MMA 
oligomers and the Au atoms. 
Density distributions of isotactic MMA-oligomer 
thin films with different chain lengths are plotted in 
Figure 1. It should be noted that the peak density in the 
contact region (region I) is less evident for the 
long-chain thin film (with m=20, m: repeat units). This 
indicates that for short-chain films (with m=5 or 10) the 
MMA oligomers in the contact region are strongly 
attracted by the Au atoms of the substrate and have a 
close stacking in this region. The short-chain film thus 
has a lower thickness than the long-chain film when the 
same number of MMA monomers was used in the thin 
film, as the cases in the present study. 
Conformations of molecular chain axes of the 
MMA oligomers in the three regions of the isotactic 
MMA-oligomer thin film with m=5 are displayed in 
Figure 2. The conformations of the molecular chain 
axes in the three regions of the isotactic 
MMA-oligomer thin film with m=20 are plotted in 
