 2
SGSN2. The GGSN connects to the external 
Packet Data Network (PDN; Figure 1 (7)) by 
an IP-based interface. Both SGSN and 
GGSN communicate with the Home 
Subscriber Server/Authentication Center 
(HSS/AuC; Figure 1 (6)) for mobility and 
session management. The HSS/AuC is the 
master database containing all user-related 
subscription and location information. 
 
When an MS sends initial L3 messages (e.g., 
location update request, connection 
management service request, paging 
response, etc.) to the SGSN, the security 
function is activated to provide mutual 
authentication between the HSS/AuC and the 
MS [2]. Mutual authentication is achieved by 
showing the knowledge of a preshared secret 
key that is only available in the MS and the 
AuC. Specifically, an Authentication Vector 
(AV) is used for one authentication and key 
agreement between the SGSN and the MS. 
Figure 2 illustrates the message flow for 
UMTS security. 
 
 
Figure 2. Message Flow for UMTS Security 
 
Step 1. The MS sends an L3 message (e.g., 
registration) to the SGSN. 
Steps 2-4. Upon receipt of the L3 message, if 
the SGSN possesses the AVs of the 
MS, Steps 2-4 are skipped. Otherwise, 
the SGSN sends an Authentication 
Data Request message to the 
HSS/AuC to retrieve the AVs. The 
HSS/AuC generates an array of AVs, 
and returns them to the SGSN 
through the Authentication Data 
Response message. Steps 2-4 are 
called the Authentication Data 
Request & Response (ADR) operation. 
An AV contains 5 elements: a 
random challenge RAND, a network 
authentication token AUTN, an 
expected user response XRES, a 
cipher key CK, and an integrity key 
IK. 
Steps 5 and 6. The SGSN selects the next 
unused AV in the AV array to 
perform the security function. Then 
the SGSN sends a User 
Authentication Request with 
parameters RAND and AUTN to the 
MS. 
Steps 7 and 8. The MS authenticates the 
SGSN by verifying AUTN. After 
successfully authenticating the 
network, the MS computes the user 
response RES by RAND and 
preshared key, and then sends RES to 
the SGSN through User 
Authentication Response. Steps 6-8 
are called the User Authentication 
Request & Response (UAR) 
operation. 
Step 9. The SGSN compares RES with 
XRES. If they are matched, the MS is 
successfully authenticated. 
Steps 10-11. The MS computes CK and IK 
by RAND and preshared Key. On the 
other hand, the SGSN retrieves CK 
and IK from the selected AV. CK and 
IK are used in both sides for 
encryption/decryption and integrity 
check. 
 
三、研究目的及文獻探討 
 
When an MS moves from one SGSN 
area to another, the old SGSN may store the 
unused AVs for an interval called the 
reservation timeout (RT) period. If the MS 
returns to the SGSN area within the RT 
period, the SGSN will utilize these stored 
AVs for authentication instead of obtaining 
new AVs from the HSS/AuC. Therefore, the 
signaling traffic for accessing the HSS/AuC 
is reduced. Note that a long RT period results 
 4
四、研究方法 
 
This section investigates the effect of the RT 
period T on the performance of the AV 
management. The following parameters and 
assumptions are made. 
z The UAR arrivals are a Poisson process 
with rate λ. 
z The SGSN residence time is 
exponentially distributed with rate µ (this 
exponential assumption will be relaxed in 
the simulation experiments described 
later). 
Three output measures are evaluated in our 
study. 
z α: the probability that the MS re-enters L0 
within the RT period T 
z β: the expected AV storage consumed 
when T>0, which is normalized by the 
expected AV storage consumed when 
T=0 
z δ: the number of ADRs performed in one 
visit to SGSN L0 as comparing with that 
when K=1. Let E[N|K] be the expected 
number of ADRs performed in one visit 
to L0, where K AVs are obtained in one 
ADR. Then 
]1|[
]|[
== KNE
KNEδ . 
 
The above output measures are derived in [8]. 
We also utilize discrete event simulation 
experiments to validate the analytic model. 
In the simulation, four types of events are 
defined: MSUAR represents that a UAR 
occurs, MSLeave indicates that the MS leave 
L0, RTExpire represents that the RT timer 
expires, and MSMove indicates that the MS 
moves to a new SGSN area after leaving L0. 
The type of an event e is denoted by e.type, 
and the timestamp of e is denoted by 
e.timestamp. All events are first inserted into 
 
Figure 4. The Simulation Flowchart 
 6
Loc + v. 
Step 13. Check if the MS moves back to L0. 
If so, the flow goes to Step 15. 
Otherwise, go to  Step 14. 
Step 14. Generate an MSMove event for the 
next MS movement. 
Step 15. The MS moves back to L0 for the 
(m+1)-th visit to L0. VisitCount is 
incremented by 1, and the flow goes 
back to Step 2 for the next visit to L0. 
Step 16. The RT timer expires, and all the 
AVs stored in the SGSN L0 are 
discarded. Therefore, k is set as 0, and 
the storage periods for these 
discarded AVs are added to 
StorePeriod. Then the flow proceeds 
to Step 2 for the next visit to L0. 
Step 17. If MaxVisit visits to L0 have been 
complete, the output measures are 
computed by (19), and the simulation 
is terminated. 
 
五、結果與討論 
 
Based on the analytic models, we use 
numerical examples to investigate how the 
RT period T affects the performance of AV 
management. These numerical examples also 
validate the simulation model (in Appendix 
A) against the analytic analysis in Section 3. 
As shown in   Figures 6-8, the 
discrepancies between the analytic and 
simulation models are less than 1%. 
Therefore the analytic and simulation models 
are consistent. 
 
Figure 5 plots the probability α of re-entrance 
to L0 against the RT period T. The figure 
indicates that for T < 27/µ, α significantly 
increases as T increases. For T ≥ 27/µ, the 
impact of T on α becomes less significant. 
We note that the α curve is determined by the 
probabilities of the movement directions. In 
the two-dimensional random walk, if the 
routing probabilities of the movement 
directions are not the same, then it is very 
likely that the MS will never return to L0. In 
the real world, the MS movement may 
exhibit locality, and the MS eventually 
moves back to L0. 
 
Figure 6 plots the normalized AV storage β 
against T and K. The figure indicates that β is 
an almost linearly increasing function of T. 
When T=27/µ, SGSN L0 consumes 17 times 
as much AV storage as that when T=0.  
 
Figure 5. Effects of T on α 
 
Figure 6. Effects of T and K on β (λ=20µ) 
 
Figure 7. Effects of T and K on δ (λ=20µ) 
 
Figure 7 plots δ against T and K. We observe 
that δ decreases as T increases. For T>27/µ, 
the effect of T on δ is negligible. When T 
→∞, all AVs are utilized for the UARs, and 
δ=1/K. For the same T value, it is obvious 
that δ increases as K decreases. Consider the 
