 2
 
二、 緣由與目的 
 
With the advance of information technology, the applications of healthcare system in Taiwan 
are popularized gradually. To promote the operation efficiency and increase service quality, each 
big hospital continuously leads into a healthcare system, but the effect of the healthcare system is 
not good as expected. The current system required that clinicians spend a great deal of time 
tracking down patient records or repeating health tests because of incompatible diagnostic 
procedures across institutions. McKesson mentions that the current inefficient problems of the 
health system in medical supply chain are as follows: 1.Each department is lacks of the IT support; 
2.The demand information cannot be integrated effectively; 3.The imprecise demand prediction 
causes the frequency of urgent orders, high transportation cost and high inventory cost; 4.The labor 
processing increases the operational cost [4]. Lee et al. proposed that the one of ways to solve 
above-mentioned problems is supply chain members, upstream and downstream member must 
share information together [3]. 
At present, VICS (Voluntary Interindustry Commerce Standards) association proposed the 
implementation steps of CPFR (Collaborative Planning, Forecasting, and Replenishment) program. 
The purpose of implement CPRF is to improve replenishment efficiency of the two sides, hospital 
and pharmacist, reduce inventory or inventory shortage cost, decrease order variability, purchase 
time and delivery date, and raise service quality, etc. Based on the statistics in 2004 of VICS 
association, the CPFR program have already been implemented up to 105 companies, including 
food industry, manufacturing industry and medicine industry, etc. Among them, the medicine 
industry has 27.3 percent of enterprises been implemented the CPFR program to enhance their 
medical service level, avoid their medical resource waste and their purchase inefficiency. In 
Taiwan, there are only few enterprises have planning construction and successful implement CPFR 
program. Therefore, CPFR implementation is one of the most important research topics in the 
future. 
The purpose of this research is to investigate the feasibility study and propose an 
implementation model of CPFR in Taiwan. This research is used CPFR concept for the medical 
procurement of the hospital based on the successful experience of foreign medicine industries and 
the steps of constructing CPFR model in medical procurement. This research is applied eleven 
hospitals case studies to understand the current purchasing situation, feasibility, key success factors 
and benefit, and to conduct an appropriate model of CPFR within hospitals. Based on the collection 
data, the AHP method is applied in weight analysis of consideration KSF of CPFR. Finally, this 
paper also estimates the performance evaluation of CPRF program. Therefore, these findings may 
provide hospitals the reference to implement CPFR model and enhance the hospital service level 
and drug purchasing in practice. 
 
三、 文獻探討 
 
VICS Association [1, 2] points out that CPFR is a method to build a cooperative relationship 
in information sharing between business and his partner in signing the contract and share 
 4
preliminary idea and plan at present. Therefore, this research is focused on the concept of 
collaboration cooperation development and survey, and CPFR model construction in the 
pharmaceutical and medical industry of Taiwan to increase the purchase efficiency and operation 
performance, and create the win-win situation. 
 
四、 研究方法 
 
The method of this research uses case interview, discussion and survey because in the 
pharmaceutical and medical products industry of Taiwan is so limited applied collaboration case. 
The procedures applied in this research are shown as follows: 1.Sampling few hospitals for the 
expertise interview to understand the current situation of hospital purchase procedure which will 
be considered as good way to introduce the concept of CPFR.; 2.Discussing the interview result 
with the expert in how to implement a CPFR model from hospital medical procurement; 
3.Applying AHP method to make a survey of the factor to decides the key success factors in 
development of CPFR model; and 4.Analyzing the outcomes in the case investigation and 
questionnaire of the purchasing and drug department of hospitals to evaluate the feasibility and 
benefit in implementation CPFR model in the e-procurement between hospitals and their 
suppliers. 
 
五、 CPFR 模式建構 
 
In late 1997, Benchmarking Partners began developing the CPFR which increases the 
efficiency of supply chains by allowing manufacturers and retailers to use the Internet for real-time 
synchronization of sales forecasts and business plans. Everyone enjoys the benefits of lower 
inventory, faster order cycle times, better sales and order information, and so forth. In order to 
construct a general implementation model for medical SCM, a model is proposed form original 
CPFR model to fit medical SCM needs as follows: 
1. Build the relationships and plan of coordination cooperation: In advance of implementation, 
buyer and supplier must comply with contract and planning, which include the key points of 
coordination cooperation, the future goal, the bilateral manpower and system establishing condition, 
the confirmation of role and duty, information sharing, communication, strategy planning, and so 
on (showed in Figure 4.1). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4.1 Business coordination platform 
2. Forecast drug demand：Forecasting is a prediction of what will happen in the future with a 
tendency to provide a more accurate picture of demand in the short term than the long term. This 
stage employs Web-based standards to enable trading partners to share historical demand and 
inventory data as shown in Figure 4.2. 
Hospital 
purchase 
and 
medicament 
department 
Collaborative information platform 
 
1. Establish coordination plan 
2. Share information 
3. Establish forecast mechanism 
4. Set up order time 
Contract 
drugs 
supplier 
Buyer Seller 
 6
e-procurement system will automatically send an ordering message to its supplier through the 
platform of CPFR. Then, the medical supplier will deliver the hospitals’ needs immediately 
because the drug ordering information is shared in advance. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4.5 Procedure of hospitals achieves to ordering 
5. Feasibility Study and Benefit Analysis of CPFR Model 
The CPFR feasibility study and benefit analysis are based on the steps of developing CPFR 
model and Likert’s scale to design the questionnaires. Each questionnaire is investigated by the 
hospital purchase or pharmacy department manager or its related employees to discuss its 
implement benefit analysis and feasibility study. The results of statistical analysis show that 80% of 
investigated hospitals agree to implement the CPFR model and affirmative its feasibility and 
benefit under the information security premise. 
Based on the result of interview, There are few considerations in the hospital point of view as 
follows: 1) hospital does not share the information because the security of medical information 
does not maintain well; 2) Even some hospitals do agree with CPFR the feasibility and benefit, 
they think that the third party form government or academia should be in charge of planning. 
Therefore, it is an important to find out what the KSF will be ranked in developing CPFR. If these 
important considerations can be determined before a new plan, CPFR, development that will be 
very helpful in further consideration and development. Thus, the Analytical Hierarchy Process 
(AHP) method is applied to determine the importance weights in all considerations. 
The hierarchy of implementing CPFR is divided into three levels. The highest level is the KSF 
consideration. The middle level is consisting of estimations (security, cost, performance, organization, 
environment and information system). In the lowest level, the estimation criteria in security (firewall 
establishment, information encryption, authorization ratings, user ethics, and regulation), cost 
(platform cost, maintenance expenses, personnel cost and communication cost), performance (drugs 
inventory cost reduction, shortage rate reduction, delivery day shorten, increase drug demand and 
ordering accuracy, purchasing cost reduction, increase information sharing accuracy and information 
sharing), organization (hospital support and commitment, hospital size, hospital coordination, 
professional skill and system necessity), environment (supplier’s support, supplier’s information 
ability, government support, regulation maturity, information tendency and competition), and 
information system (preparation evaluation, system compatibility and system function and equipment 
quality) of this research carries on the weight analysis using the AHP level analytic method to each 
considerations. 
After applied AHP method, the results show that the benefit, security and information system 
are the most important concerns with AHP measures 0.333, 0.178 and 0.168, respectively. In the 
concern of CPFR benefit, the drugs inventory cost reduction, shortage rate reduction and 
purchasing cost reduction is the most three important items with AHP measures 0.255, 0.212 and 
0.204, respectively. The second important concern is information system which includes system 
compatibility, system function and equipment quality, and preparation evaluation with AHP 
Hospital official makes an order 
Electron procurement system platform 
Medical supplier receives the drugs order form 
Replenishment 
immediately 
 8
 
七、 計畫結果與自評 
 
經過一年計畫的執行，本研究已照預定進度成功提出的醫療業 CPFR 模式，即運用電
子化採購系統、協同平台及資訊分享概念於醫院的整體採購流程，促使醫院採購效率化，
同時也能有效解決當前各醫院所面臨的問題。同時，各大醫院可根據本研究以層級分析法
（AHP）探討出的重要考量因素權重，做好事前規劃，往後將能更順利導入，而研究結果
發現：醫院最重視醫院導入 CPFR 後所帶來的效益，其中以藥品庫存成本降低、藥品缺貨
率減少、降低藥品採購成本之權重數最大，故醫院可依據這些效益建立庫存週轉率、缺貨
率、採購成本率等重要的績效指標，作為醫院導入 CPFR 後的績效評估標準。接著所重視
的資訊系統及資訊安全二大構面，醫院也可針對「資訊化程度」方面來設立績效指標，同
時也要有「醫院高階主管的支持與承諾」才能更順利的推行。 
就以整體醫療業來看，各大醫院的資訊系統仍有很大的進步空間，當然除了各大醫院
同意協同平台資訊分享模式外，最重要是先克服當前醫院所顧慮的資訊安全、資訊保密等
問題，才能促使醫院願意嘗試導入，而克服的最好方式是由政府出面推動，建置共用平台，
讓較缺乏經費的醫院有機會導入，同時也能解決分享過程中的資料外洩問題、提高整體醫
療的營運品質，否則以目前現況來看，只有較多經費的醫學中心才能自行導入電子化採購
系統及協同平台，促使各醫院的資訊化程度參差不齊，進而影響整體各方面的品質水準，
而這都不是我們所樂見的，所以如何持續強化醫療業各方面的品質水準是目前各大醫院應
有的目標。此研究結果可被繼續發展，延伸至協同平台資訊分享建構，並進而於建立全國
醫療院所使其能廣泛被應用。 
 
七、參考文獻 
 
1. Collaborative Planning, Forecasting and Replenishment (CPFR ®), Voluntary Interindustry 
Commerce Standards Association, 2002. 
2. CPFR Website（http://www. CPFR .org） 
3. Lee, H. L., Padmanabhan, V., Whang, S.,, “Information Distortion in a Supply Chain：The 
Bullwhip Effect”, Management Science, 43(4), 546-558, 1997. 
4. Lin, T. M. “New Era for CPFR”, Industry Automates and Electronic Periodical, 17, 18-23, 
2004. 
5. Supply Chain Council (SCC) Website, http://www.supply-chain.org/public/home.asp. 
6. Chen, G. T., The way of hospital commercialization management, New Wun-Ching Publication, 
2004. 
7. Yu, S. C., ”Evaluating the Possibility of Group Purchasing Drugs among the   National 
University Hospitals in Taiwan”, Master Thesis, Department of Public Health, National Taiwan 
University, 1996.  
8. Tsai, D. M., Kou, X. Z., Li, Y. W., Li, G. M., Yeh, L. I., “The Influence Factors Study of 
Developing EC in Medical Industry”, Third Information Management and New Technologies 
Conference, 2002.  
9. Xiao, R. L., Huang, X. J., Xi, S. J., Chen, C. Y., “The KSF Study of Medicine and Health 
Material E-procurement”, Third Information Management and New Technologies Conference, 
2002. 
10. Seifert, D., Collaborative Planning, Forecasting, and Replenishment – How to Create a Supply 
Chain Advantage, http://www.Amazon.com. , 2003. 
11. Andraski. J. , “Progress and Opportunity,” Collaboration in Practice：A Supplement to Food 
Logistics and Retail-tech magazines, pp.6-9, Fall 2001. 
