and leaves the surface. A sensor is placed in 
the path of the specular light and the reflected 
beam received by the sensor contains a 
speckle pattern with a number of speckles. 
Since the image received by the sensor is a 
speckle pattern generated from the optical 
interference effect, correlation of successive 
scatter pattern images is typically used to 
determine the displacement of the speckle 
pattern movement. This patent [5] mainly uses 
the sensor to receive the reflective beam close 
to the reflection. The signals received by the 
sensor can be divided into direct current (DC) 
and alternating current (AC) parts. Therefore, 
the DC part refers to the uniform distribution 
of the reflected lights. The brightness 
variation of the speckle pattern belongs to the 
AC part. When the speckle size is too small to 
be recognized, the AC part is hard to be 
extracted and analyzed. 
Another related technique [6] proposes a 
device with an optical signal processing 
method for optical mice. The relative 
displacement vector between the laser beam 
signal of the mouse and the surface that 
generates the speckle is calculated by 
collecting the moving signal of the speckle. 
This device includes an amplifying and 
rectifying module for the opto-electrical signal, 
a direction-determining and counting module, 
and a computer interface circuit in the mouse. 
Also, a laser source and an opto-electrical 
sensor are included, in which the sensor is 
used to receive the speckle signals reflected 
from the object surface and then send the 
received signals to the amplifying and 
rectifying module. Based upon the variation in 
the speckle brightness of the captured image, 
the moving direction and distance of the 
mouse thereby can be determined. The 
designed device [6] has a simple structure. 
However, the size of the produced speckle 
becomes much smaller when the reflecting 
surface is very smooth. Therefore, it is 
difficult to detect the variation in the speckle 
brightness and then the resolution is decreased 
much, rendering a lower sensitivity. 
In summary, the sensitivity is determined 
by the size of speckle and speckles with small 
size cannot be effectively identified. Therefore, 
how to control the size of the speckle and 
reduce the variation of speckle pattern during 
the movement of the sensor are the keys to 
increase the sensitivity. This paper presents a 
robust technique of analyzing and locating 
LSPs for a prototype of laser optical mouse 
[9]. Experimental results show that the 
proposed technique can not only precisely 
calculate the moving directions and 
displacement information for laser speckles, 
also, the linearity and location resolution for 
the prototype of laser mouse can be verified. 
This paper is organized as follows: Section 2 
presents the principles of laser speckles, 
Section 3 describes the proposed method for 
analyzing and locating LSPs, Section 4 
focuses on experimental results, and finally, 
Section 5 reports the conclusions. 
Figure 1 Detailed structure of the laser mouse 
prototype [9] 
2. Principles of Laser Speckles 
We adopt the laser mouse prototype [9] 
developed by Laser Physics Section, Materials 
& Electro-Optics Research Division, 
Chung-Shan Institute of Science & 
Technology, Taiwan, to generate laser speckle 
patterns. In the detailed structure shown in Fig. 
1, a highly coherent light emitted from a light 
source is used to illuminate a surface and 
produces scattered lights. The scattered lights 
pass through a light restrictive element. The 
light restrictive element is implemented using 
an aperture with small diameter, resulting in 
the diffractive effect for the incoming 
scattered lights. Therefore, the light forms 
several concentric rings on the image sensor 
due to diffraction. The central one represents a 
maximum and forms a bright spot of lateral 
width 2δ. The half-width δ of the bright spot, 
the wavelength λ of light wave, the diameter d 
of the hole, and the distance Z between the 
hole and the screen satisfy the following 
relation: 
1.22( / )d zδ λ=           (1) 
Each ray of the scattered light created from 
different adjacent scattering centers on the 
illuminated surface passes through the light 
restrictive element. Therefore, different bright 
spots interfere with one another resulting in a 
bright and dark spots distribution that forming 
a speckle pattern. Therefore, the image sensor 
can accurately display the shape of the speckle 
and determine the motion of the speckle 
pattern during the movement of the sensor 
relative to an object surface. By properly 
adjusting the diameter and position of the 
circular area. Then, as shown in Fig. 4, the 
PFRemote tool program is used to set the 
relative parameters for the digital camera. A 
120 120×  Window of Interest (WOI) 
(X,Y,Width =120, Height = 120) is decided in 
advance and the speckle pattern should be 
included. Also, the received image size by the 
frame grabber is set to 120 120×  using the 
Camera Expert program. This is to 
synchronize with the digital camera. 
Figure 4 PFRemote tool program is used to 
set the relative parameters for the digital 
camera 
After that, we can use the developed GUI 
program to move and observe the speckle 
images, and randomly capture several 
120 120×  images, an example is shown in Fig. 
5(a). To calculate the center position and the 
covered area of the speckle pattern, the 
captured image is preprocessed by a Gaussian 
low pass filter, as shown in Fig. 5(b). Next, 
Fig. 5(b) is converted into a binary image, as 
shown in Fig. 5(c). This binary image is then 
traced to find the boundary, as shown in Fig. 
5(d), and the contour is determined by fitting a 
circle to the boundary, as shown in Fig. 5(e). 
Till now, the circle center and the radius can 
be computed to represent the central point of 
the speckle pattern distribution and its covered 
area. To add the circle center coordinates with 
the previous WOI (X,Y) coordinates, we can 
obtain the central position in the 1024 1024×  
area. 
Figure 5 The speckle image captured by the 
developed GUI program and its processing 
procedures 
In the following procedures, , we use the 
PFremote tool program to renew the WOI size 
of the digital camera and set a smaller 32 32×  
area around the speckle pattern. The settings 
are stored into the EEPROM of the digital 
camera. On the other hand, the received image 
size of the frame grabber is also set to 32 32×  
by using the Camera Expert tool program to 
synchronize with the digital camera. This is 
essential for correctly capturing images and 
one example of the captured image is shown 
in Fig. 5(f). After storing all above-mentioned 
parameters, the settings for locating speckle 
patterns and determining the image area are 
accomplished. Since the captured image size 
becomes smaller, the image data transmitted 
from the digital camera to the frame grabber is 
also reduced. Therefore, the frame rate of the 
digital camera can be increased according to 
practical needs. To easily understand the 
preprocessing and capturing procedures for 
the speckle images, the detailed flowchart is 
shown in Fig. 6. 
Figure 6 Flowchart for preprocessing and 
capturing speckle images 
3.3 Selection for an Appropriate Matching 
Method 
After completing all the settings for the digital 
camera and the frame grabber, the developed 
GUI program can be used to capture 
fixed-size speckle images. By moving the 
aluminum board horizontally, the exemplar 
speckle patterns are shown in Fig. 7. However, 
since the aperture of a light restrict element is 
adopted by the prototype mouse to enlarge the 
speckle patterns, it is very likely to obtain 
images with stronger brightness in local areas, 
as shown in Fig. 8. This will result in errors 
for locating the center position of the mouse 
using moving speckle patterns. 
Figure 7 The exemplar speckle patterns 
captured by moving the aluminum board 
 
Figure 8 Captured images with stronger 
brightness in local areas 
To verify the correct trajectory of the 
calculated, the variations of speckle patterns 
are moving toward the +X direction, as shown 
in Fig. 11. Note that, for easy observation, the 
displacement value has been multiplied with a 
negative sign. Although the ideal result of 
moving direction should appear as a 
horizontal line, the output line in Fig. 11 
skewed a little to the lower right direction. 
However, since this comes from a minute 
slant between the mouse prototype and the 
X-Y table, the results also demonstrate the 
proposed technique can detect even the slight 
difference. This can be applied to the 
problems of precise positioning in the future. 
Currently, this is acceptable for the 
applications of laser mice to correctly locate 
their moving positions. 
Figure 11 Accumulated displacement of each 
image frame showing the variations of moving 
speckle patterns along the +X direction 
4.2 Comparisons for Cross-correlation and 
Normalized Cross-correlation 
To evaluate two correlation methods of CC 
and NCC for analyzing and locating speckle 
patterns, we adopt Fig. 9 as an example. By 
referring to the equations of CC and NCC in 
(2) and (3), their corresponding correlation 
surfaces can be computed by using Matlab. 
The Matlab 2–D cross-correlation function 
xcorr2(A,B) is used to calculate the 
correlation of the reference image and the 
temple image. The xcorr2(A,B) function 
returns the cross-correlation of matrices A and 
B with no scaling. As shown in Fig. 12, the 
peaks in the cross correlation surface appear at 
the positions with the best matches for the 
template image in the reference image. 
However, the output location (32, 32) with the 
highest peak value is far from the true peak 
location (24, 24). The wrong results come 
from the higher correlation value of the 
template image with bright areas of the 
reference image than the correlation value of 
the template image with dark areas. This 
demonstrates that matching errors will occur if 
we use CC to locate speckle patterns for local 
areas with stronger brightness. 
Since the approaches of SAD (Sum of 
Absolute Difference) and SSD (Sum of 
Squared Differences) make the same 
assumption of constant brightness with CC, 
the position errors are also produced from the 
existence of local bright areas while applying 
those two approaches to the positioning of 
laser speckle patterns. The Matlab Normalized 
2-D cross-correlation function 
normxcorr2(A,B) is used to compute the 
normalized cross-correlation of the matrices A 
and B. Fig. 13 shows the correlation surface 
calculated from the NCC method and the 
peaks appear almost exactly in the true peak 
location (24, 24). This reveals that successful 
and correct matching can be achieved by 
using NCC for those speckle patterns with 
bright areas. Therefore, using normalized 
cross-correlation (NCC) for the template 
matching of speckle patterns can decrease the 
brightness effect in the image and provide 
robust and accurate results [10]. 
Figure 12 The correlation surface calculated 
from CC 
Figure 13 The correlation surface calculated 
from NCC 
4.3 Discussions 
Although the NCC approach has the 
advantage of precise positioning, the 
algorithm is computationally intensive. Also, 
this method is not invariant to the changes of 
scaling, rotation, and lighting. However, for 
the applications at laser mice or optical 
navigators, the distance between the image 
sensor and the surface is fixed that the 
problem of scale resizing does not exist. On 
the other hand, since the frame rate of the 
frame grabber is high (1500~6000 fps) [6], the 
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900
-400
-300
-200
-100
0
100
200
300
400
X: 855
Y: 49
X
Y
Displacement
