  - 2 -
taken or doing nothing as well as how the 
performance will be upgraded after an action is 
performed. Obviously, the deterioration rate of 
bridge members is crucial to the model and will 
account for the accuracy of prediction 
significantly. 
As the reality of bridge deterioration involves 
many uncertainties, we proposed an objective 
approach to improve the accuracy of estimation. 
The first step is factor extraction. Some 
deterioration behaviors can be observed and easily 
explained, the others may not. Therefore, mining a 
large accumulated database can be an effective try 
to discard those irrelevant factors without missing 
important ones. Afterwards, a group of similar 
bridge samples can be screened up if some 
attribute values are given. Therefore, deterioration 
rate of these similar bridges can be calculated 
based on their historical record with regression or 
other statistical means. With the deterioration rate, 
the time point of maintaining event can be 
predicted if a threshold of allowable condition is 
set. Since the cost is associated with maintaining 
action, the LCC of bridge can then be evaluated 
from the cash flows. The roadmap is presented in 
Figure 1. 
This study first proposed a procedure of 
dynamic classification to retrieve samples of 
similar bridges from a database. While the factors 
are mined and identified, bridges with 
homogeneous characteristics at the identified 
factors can be drawn from the database due to their 
relevant attributes that match the given conditions. 
In other words, the identified factors are used to 
distinguish a set of bridge samples that can 
represent the deterioration patterns of the given 
target. Afterwards, New Condition Index (NCI) 
and Reliability Index (β) are introduced to 
measure the degree of deterioration of bridge 
elements. Moreover, system reliabilities for whole 
bridges were derived as well. Finally, to facilitate 
the approach, this study proposes a bridge 
matching system to demonstrate the process of the 
dynamic classification and the trend of 
deterioration. 
 
Figure 1 Roadmap to Bridge LCCA 
 
2. RELATED WORK 
2.1 Factors Leading to Bridge Deterioration 
Many past efforts were reviewed and well 
Factor Extraction from Database 
Retrieving Similar Bridges 
Calculating Deterioration Rate 
Prediction of Maintaining Event 
Cash Flow for Cost Incurred 
  - 4 -
3. METHODOLOGY 
3.1 Dynamic Partition of Samples 
While retrieving similar bridges for a target, 
attribute values are usually categorized in 
subgroups first. Data with continuous random 
variables are usually divided into several partitions 
at an average width. The matches simply can be 
taken by finding the partition which the given data 
point, or the target falls into. However, the 
partitioning is somewhat arbitrary. Besides, it is 
not rational that using the average of data within 
the partition to represent any given target insides it, 
especially, those which are near the border. 
Therefore, such preset partitions may lead to a bias. 
A better approach is to find a distinctive partition 
that can always best represent any given target. An 
example is shown in Figure 2. With a given target, 
the preset partition, i.e., the gray area in (a), only 
covers data samples with a greater X than the 
target. In contrast, the dynamic partition, or the 
gray area in (b) can always have its center on the 
target. 
 
Figure 2 Partitions of Data 
 
3.2 Measurement of Similarity 
To what extent should a bridge be considered 
similar to the target one? There is no ambiguity in 
classifying a bridge according to categorical 
attributes due to the discrete values for each 
partition. However, problems arise with numerical 
attributes such as traffic volume. It is hard to say 
whether a bridge carrying average daily traffic 
(ADT) of 1,000 cars is in similar environmental 
condition comparing with the one carrying 900 or 
not, for instance. Therefore, a measure to quantify 
similarity is required to determine if a bridge is 
qualified to be a similar match to the target. 
Apparently, the attribute values of numerical 
factors are continuous random variables. Just like 
many other observed variables, they are, in fact, 
composed of the sums of other variables. Hence, 
according to the Central Limit Theorem, they tend 
to be normally distributed. Similarities can then be 
derived from the probability distribution function 
(PDF). Suppose an attribute value x0 is targeted, 
for any given data point away from x0 at a distance 
a, the similarity (S) can be measured: 
S = 1 – P[x0–a < X < x0+a], 
where X is a random variable, and P[x0–a < X < 
x0+a] denotes the probability of [x0–a < X < x0+a], 
shown as the gray area under the PDF curve in 
Figure 3. The similarity, by definition, ranges from 
0 to 1(100%). While a is approaching zero, a data 
point at x0-a or x0+a is getting very close to x0, 
hence, S≈100%. The calculation of similarity only 
  - 6 -
By the definition of NCI, there are 13 
possible combinations of D and E. In other words, 
NCI depicts 13 levels of conditions for bridge 
elements as illustrated in Figure 4. 
 
 
Figure 4 NCI and Combinations of D & E 
 
Recalling the DER rating scale in Table 1, 
"Poor" condition is indicated while D reaches 3. 
This suggests that a maintaining action shall be 
taken while D is 3 or greater. Accordingly, in this 
study, bridge members will assume to be unsafe 
while NCI is 3 or greater. 
 
4.2 Reliability Index for Bridge Elements 
One of the major disadvantages over using 
visual inspection data is too many uncertainties 
existing in the procedure. In practice, it is hard to 
tell if a bridge member is really safe or not solely 
relying on the results from visual inspection. 
Therefore, a probabilistic approach is 
advantageous over deterministic ones. In this 
situation, reliability-based methods can provide a 
rational approach to help with decision making. 
One of the commonly used probabilistic measures 
of safety is Reliability Index (β). 
As described in 4.1, a bridge element is 
assumed to be unsafe while its NCI reaches 3 or 
greater. The Reliability Index of bridge elements 
can be calculated as follows if NCI is assumed to 
be normally distributed: 
σ
µβ −= 3  
where β = Reliability Index, 
µ = Mean of NCI, 
σ = Standard Deviation of NCI 
As can be seen from the equation above, the 
Reliability Index (β) represents the number of 
standard deviations (σ) which separate the mean 
(µ) of NCI, from the critical condition (NCI=3). 
Figure 5 demonstrates the notion of reliability 
index for NCI. 
 
Figure 5 Reliability Index for NCI 
A reliability index β = 0 implies that the mean 
of NCI is equal to 3. That is, the bridge member is 
at risk of 50% to be unsafe. Furthermore, a 
negative Reliability Index indicates a higher risk 
  - 8 -
whole bridges. Indeed, it is more practical to use 
an overall index for quick decision making at 
maintenance strategy. An overall condition index 
is usually defined by averaging weighted index for 
all bridge members. In TBMS, for example, 
condition index (CI) is calculated by: 
wi
wiIciCI
∑
×∑
=
 
where Ici = Condition Index for Element i, 
wi = Weights for Element i  
Likewise, the system reliability for a bridge is 
composed of the reliabilities of elements 
concerning to bridge safety. The reliabilities are in 
form of probabilities, hence can be converted into 
reliability indices simply by the inverse function of 
standard normal distribution, φ-1(R). This provides 
an index with risk-based measure to help bridge 
management authorities with better decision 
making.  
 
5. RETRIEVAL SYSTEM OF BRIDGES 
5.1 Similar Bridges Based on Deterioration 
Factors 
Once factors leading to deterioration of 
bridge elements are identified, these factors are 
considered as relevant attributes to the 
corresponding deterioration patterns. Bridges with 
similar characteristics can be drawn out from the 
database and the historical inspection data of them 
may provide clues that give the insights into 
prediction of future deterioration. It is noted that 
'similar bridges' implies a neighborhood of a data 
point representing a bridge which is given as a 
target. For different elements of the target, or even 
different deterioration types of each element, there 
can be a different set of neighbors if the identified 
factors are different. There is no doubt to tell 
which partition the target falls into if partitions of 
a category for dividing bridges can be preset. 
Therefore, the partition to which the target belongs 
is considered as its neighborhood. Accordingly, the 
neighbors, i.e., the bridge samples inside the 
partition are recognized as similar bridges to the 
target. However, this can be done only with the 
categorical attributes as they are discrete random 
variables. While a numerical attribute is taken into 
account, a dynamic partition coupled with a 
similarity is needed to enclose the neighborhood. 
The similar bridges can then be recognized 
afterwards. The notion of dynamic partition and 
similarity provides an unbiased approach and a 
degree of freedom in selecting similar matches 
with flexibility. 
 
5.2 Bridge Matching System 
A web-based bridge matching system has 
been developed to implement the approach. It 
currently contains relevant attribute values for 
most of bridges sampled form national freeways in 
Taiwan. Also, the associated historical visual 
  - 10 -
to the deterioration via a data mining technique, 
RST. Afterwards, a bridge matching system is 
introduced. Giving any bridge candidate with a 
variety of features as well as the matching 
similarity, the similar bridges can be recognized 
and differentiated from the database at once. 
 
6.2 Future Work 
Although this study has demonstrated a 
systematic approach to retrieve the information of 
similar bridges due to identified deterioration 
factors of RC bridge decks, some efforts can be 
made further in future such as: 
1. Visual inspection data are often seen to be 
rather subjective and error-prone. It is 
recommended that steps be taken to eliminate 
logical mistakes or irrational records before 
performing the analysis.  
2. Bridge deterioration is commonly reckoned as 
probabilistic. More bridge data are expected in 
the database to improve the accuracy of 
prediction. 
 
7.  REFERENCES 
[1] 黃榮堯，國科會專案計畫「橋梁 LCCA 導入
可靠度理論之構件劣化預測模式之研究
(I)」，計畫編號：NSC95-2221-E-008-175。 
[2] U.S. Federal Highway Administration, 
Recording and Coding Guide for the Structure 
Inventory and Appraisal of the Nation’s 
Bridges, 1995, Washington, DC. 
[3] AASHTO, Pontis Release 4.4 User's Manual, 
2005, Washington, DC. 
[4] Jiang, Y., "The development of performance 
prediction and optimization models for bridge 
management systems," PhD Thesis at Purdue 
University, 1990. 
[5] Cambridge Systematics, Inc., Pontis 5.0 
Bridge Management System, Functional 
Requirements Specification v1.0, Final Report, 
2005. 
[6] Hawk, H., and Small E. P., "The BRIDGIT 
Bridge Management System," Structural 
Engineering International, Vol.8, No.4, 1998, 
pp. 309-314. 
[7] BRIME (Bridge Management in Europe), 
Contract No.: RO-97-SC.2220, Deliverable 
D14, 2001. 
[8] 臺灣地區橋梁管理系統
http://tbms.iot.gov.tw/ 
[9] 王有志等，橋梁的可靠性評估與加固，中國
水利水電出版社，2002。 
