 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-002-166- 
執行期間：96 年 08 月 01 日至 97 年 10 月 31 日 
主持人：台灣大學光電工程研究所 馮哲川教授 
 
 
 
一、中文摘要 
 
本 報 告 總 結 國 科 會 計 畫 NSC 
96-2221-E-002-166-「功率與節能應用之塊
狀與磊晶碳化矽的創新研究-II」(96 年 08
月 01 日至 97 年 10 月 31 日)的執行成果。
在這段時間之內，計畫主持人(暨合作者和
學生)已經發表了 1 本專業書籍，1 專書 
review chapter， 9 篇發表在 SCI 上的期
刊論文以及 20 篇以上的研討會論文。主要
的結果及成就包含了以下幾項：(A) 出版
氮化鎵器件和奈米工程的專書，(B) 專書
chapter: 藍寶石基板上金屬氧化物化學氣
相磊晶成長的氮化銦鎵/氮化鎵多量子井
發光二極體的結構和光學特性，(C) 氧化
鋅 薄 膜 的 Reflective Second Harmonic 
Generation: 氧-鋅键合的研究，(D)多氮化
銦鎵/氮化鎵量子井層的 V-型缺陷的檢
測，(E) 銦化銦鎵/銦化鎵量子井中的自組
織成形的砷化銦量子點之的光致發光特
性，(F) 氧化鋅基板上金屬氧化物化學氣
相磊晶成長的銦氮化鎵層的研究，(G) 離
子注入的 6H-碳化矽薄膜的結構和光學研
究，(H) 藍寶石基板上氧化鋅薄膜的金屬
氧化物化學氣相磊晶成長和研究，(I) 銦化
鎵基板上金屬 Magnetron 溅射成長的銻化
鎵薄膜的光學研究，(J) 掺雜氮的碳化矽
基板中的多型轉換的檢測，(K) 成長於碳
化矽 /SOI 基板上的氮化鎵薄膜的材料性
質，和(L)提供給拾多名研究生的良好訓
練。 
 
關鍵詞：金屬氧化物化學氣相磊晶,量子井,
量子點,摻雜,缺陷,氮化鎵,氮化銦鎵,碳化
矽 ,氧化鋅 ,銻化鎵,砷化鎵, 
 
Abstract 
 
This report reviews the performance on the 
project NSC 96-2221-E-002-166-, 
Innovative investigation on bulk and 
epitaxy SiC materials for power and 
micro-electronics application and 
development – II, for 8/1/2007 – 
10/31/2008. In this period, P.I. (and 
collaborators as well as students) have 
published 1 specialized book [1], 1 book 
review chapter [2], 9 journal papers listed in 
SCI journals [3-11], and more than 20 
conference/proceeding papers. Main results 
and achievements include: A) the 
publication of a specialized review book on 
III-Nitride Devices and Nanoengineering 
[1], B) Book chapter: Structural and optical 
properties of InGaN/GaN multiple quantum 
well light emitting diodes grown by 
metalorganic chemical vapor deposition [2], 
C) Reflective Second Harmonic Generation 
from ZnO thin films: A study on the Zn-O 
bonding [3], D)  Observation of V Defects 
in Multiple InGaN/GaN Quantum Well 
Layers [4], E) Photoluminescence 
Characteristics of InAs self-assembled 
Quantum dots in InGaAs/GaAs Quantum 
well [5], F) Metalorganic Chemical Vapor 
Deposition of InGaN Layers on ZnO 
Substrates [6], G) Structural and Optical 
Studies on Ion-implanted 6H-SiC Thin 
Films [7], H) Metal organic chemical vapor 
deposition and investigation of ZnO thin 
films grown on sapphire [8], I) Optical 
Investigation of GaSb Thin Films Grown on 
GaAs by Metalorganic Magnetron 
Sputtering [9], J) Occurrence of Polytype 
Transformation during Nitrogen Doping of 
SiC Bulk Wafer [10], K) Material 
Properties of GaN Films Grown on SiC/SOI 
Substrate [11], and L) good trainings for 
more than 12 graduate students. 
 
 4
year ago.  
This new book consists of 12-well 
written review chapters and covers the 
rapidly new developments and achievements 
in the field, in particular those made after 
entering the 21st century. Each chapter, 
written by experts in the field, reviews the 
important topics and achievements in recent 
years, discusses progresses made by different 
groups, and suggests further works needed.  
This book can serve well to 
device/nanoengineering and processing 
engineers as well as potential users of 
III-Nitride technologies, including new 
comers, postgraduate students, engineers and 
scientists in the III-Nitride field. 
 
2) Structural and optical properties of 
InGaN/GaN multiple quantum well light 
emitting diodes grown by metalorganic 
chemical vapor deposition – a review book 
chapter [2] 
We have reviewed the MOCVD growth 
and investigation of InGaN/GaN multiple 
quantum well (MQW) green light emitting 
diode (LED) structures on sapphire 
substrates. Analytical studies by 
photoluminescence, photoluminescence 
excitation, time resolved photoluminescence, 
high-resolution X-ray diffraction and 
transmission electron microscopy have 
shown the excellent optical and structural 
properties. Up to 10th order QW XRD 
satellite peaks were observed plus the fine 
fringes corresponding nanometer scale 
thickness variation. Transmission electron 
microscopy confirmed the sharp MQW 
structures and dimensional parameters as 
well as nano-structural features.  
Detailed and penetrating studies of 
luminescent properties have been performed 
via a variety of photoluminescence 
spectroscopic measurements. Three types of 
temperature dependence behaviors of the 
InGaN-QW emission peak energy were 
observed from various InGaN/GaN MQW 
LEDs, including near Varshni-type, near 
flat-variation and an S-shaped 
(redshift-blueshift-redshift) behavior with 
increasing temperature. The unique P 
(excitation power) and T behaviors of PL 
spectra are due to quantum confined Stokes 
Effect (QCSE) and filling effect of band-tail 
states within the MQW structures. A large 
Stokes shift was observed from the 
comparison of PL and PLE measurements 
which arises due to inhomogeneities in the 
InGaN-based material.  
Time-resolved PL properties of MOCVD 
grown InGaN/GaN MQWs have been studied 
over the temperature range of 10 to 300 K 
and across the QW emission peak. The 
relationships of the carrier decay lifetime as a 
function of temperature and detection energy 
are obtained, which reveal that the 
InGaN-related emission is strongly affected 
by the change in carrier recombination 
dynamics with increasing temperature for the 
InGaN/GaN MQWs and emission 
mechanisms below or beyond the QW 
emission peak.  
This penetrating investigation is helpful 
to better understand the luminescent 
mechanisms and find ways to further 
improve the material design and growth of 
InGaN/GaN MQWs for the wide spectral 
LED applications. 
 
3) Reflective Second Harmonic Generation 
from ZnO thin films: A study on the Zn-O 
bonding [3] 
 In this research work, the structures of 
the Zn-O bonding in ZnO (0002) thin films 
prepared by metalorganic chemical vapor 
deposition have been studied by reflective 
second harmonic generation (RSHG). The 
polar Zn-O bond on the top layer is not 
cancelled out and presents 3mm symmetrical 
structures on the well-grown ZnO (0002) 
surface. The average polar strength of the 
Zn-O bond is correlated with the quality of 
the ZnO (0002) thin film. The mirror 
symmetry is caused by the non-vanished 
polar of twin boundary, due to the mismatch 
between the ZnO film and sapphire substrate, 
and analyzed using s-polarized RSHG with 
s-polarized fundamental light irradiation 
(SS-SRHG). These results demonstrate that 
the Zn-O heteropolar bonds on the smooth 
ZnO surface contribute to the SHG intensity. 
 
4) Observation of V Defects in Multiple 
InGaN/GaN Quantum Well Layers [4] 
 In this study, multiple In0.18Ga0.82N (4 
 6
achieved besides the good n-type doping in 
ZnO. 
 
9) Optical Investigation of GaSb Thin Films 
Grown on GaAs by Metalorganic Magnetron 
Sputtering [9]  
Metalorganic magnetron sputtering 
(MOMS) technology has been applied to the 
growth of epitaxial GaSb layers on GaAs 
(001). Optical studies are performed on a 
series of GaSb/GaAs samples grown under 
different growth conditions. Raman 
scattering measurements indicated the 
improvement of the crystalline quality of the 
GaSb thin film from the interface toward the 
surface with decreasing substrate growth 
temperature from 480oC to 400oC. Fourier 
transform infrared (FTIR) reflectance 
revealed the possible existence of an 
intermixed GaSb-GaAs layer near the 
interface. In UV reflectance spectra, the 
shapes of the high energy transition bands 
were found to be associated with the GaSb 
film quality. 
 
10) Occurrence of Polytype Transformation 
during Nitrogen Doping of SiC Bulk Wafer 
[10]  
 In this study, we have studied the 
polytype structural variations of a set of SiC 
bulk wafers with different Nitrogen (N) 
doping levels, prepared by Physical Vapore 
Deposition (PVD), are studied. The initial 
growth conditions were used to produce 
6H-polytype SiC, which has been approved 
for the undoped and lightly doped materials. 
However, when extreme high N-dopants 
were applied, the obtained wafer was found 
with 4H- and 15R-polytype features. Our 
experimental results of HR-TEM and Raman 
scattering have revealed clearly the polytype 
transformation, indicating that the 
inducement of N in the reactor leads to the 
polytype transformation of the resulted SiC 
crystal.  
 
11) Material Properties of GaN Films Grown 
on SiC/SOI Substrate [11]  
 Material properties of GaN thin films 
grown on 3C-SiC/semiconductor-on 
-insulator (SOI) substrate, by metalorganic 
chemical vapor deposition technology, are 
studied by X-ray diffraction, 
photoluminescence and Raman scattering, 
with data indicating the high quality of GaN 
films. Our results have shown that SiC/SOI 
structures obtained by carbonization have the 
potential to serve as useful substrates for 
GaN growth. 
 
In additions, we have produced >20 
conference and proceeding papers [12-32]. 
 
(四) 成果自評 
P.I. has joint NTU since 2003 Fall and 
in performing the 4th NSC project, NSC 
96-2221-E-002-166-,「功率與節能應用之塊
狀與磊晶碳化矽的創新研究-II」(96 年 08
月 01 日至 97 年 10 月 31 日). P.I. (and 
collaborators as well as students) have 
published 1 specialized book, 1 book chapter, 
9 SCI journal papers, and >20 conference 
and proceeding papers as well as more 
presentations in various international and 
national academic conferences. All the works 
would stand among the world advanced class 
levels. Continual penetrating research will be 
further processed. The outstanding results 
and achievements include:  
A) the publication of a specialized 
review book on III-Nitride Devices and 
Nanoengineering, B) a review book chapter 
on Structural and optical properties of 
InGaN/GaN multiple quantum well light 
emitting diodes grown by metalorganic 
chemical vapor deposition, C) Reflective 
Second Harmonic Generation from ZnO thin 
films: A study on the Zn-O bonding, D)  
Observation of V Defects in Multiple 
InGaN/GaN Quantum Well Layers, E) 
Photoluminescence Characteristics of InAs 
self-assembled Quantum dots in 
InGaAs/GaAs Quantum well, F) 
Metalorganic Chemical Vapor Deposition of 
InGaN Layers on ZnO Substrates, G) 
Structural and Optical Studies on 
Ion-implanted 6H-SiC Thin Films, H) Metal 
organic chemical vapor deposition and 
investigation of ZnO thin films grown on 
sapphire, I) Optical Investigation of GaSb 
Thin Films Grown on GaAs by Metalorganic 
Magnetron Sputtering, J) Occurrence of 
Polytype Transformation during Nitrogen 
 8
【21】.  Z. C. Feng, “Nano-structures and luminescence 
mechanisms of InGaN-based quantum well light 
emitting diodes”, International Workshop on Applied 
Optics & Nanophotonics (IWAON), Conference 
Program and Proceedings, p. 152-172 (2007).  
【22】.  Z. C. Feng, Yi-Zhe Huamg, Jyh-Hua Ting, 
Li-Chyong Chen, “Field Emission Properties of 
Muti-wall Carbon Nanotubes”, Optics and Photonics, 
Taiwan 2007, Proceedings-CD, AO-065, 3-pages.  
【23】.  Z. C. Feng, L. C. Cheng, C. W. Huang, F. C. 
Hou, T. K. Li, C. C. Chang, “Characterization of 
Tb-doped SiO2 Grown on Si(111)”, Optics and 
Photonics, Taiwan 2007, Proceedings-CD, EO-007, 
3-pages. 
【24】.  Z. C. Feng, P. F. Huang, Y. T. Chen, H. Y. Lee, 
“Optical and Material Characteristics of Ga2O3 Thin 
Films on GaAs ”, Optics and Photonics, Taiwan 2007, 
Proceedings-CD, EO-044, 3-pages. 
【25】.  Z. C. Feng, Shang-Yu Hong, Yi-Zhe Huang, 
Zhi-Ming Lai, “Optical Properties and Analyses of 
AlInGaP Double Heterostructure”, Optics and 
Photonics, Taiwan 2007, Proceedings-CD, EO-055, 
3-pages. 
【26】.  Z. C. Feng, Chu Wan Huang, Chao-Hsin Chien, 
“Dielectric Constants of High k and Low k Materials”, 
Optics and Photonics, Taiwan 2007, Proceedings-CD, 
AP-037, 3-pages. 
【27】.  Z. C. Feng, T. W. Kuo, C. Y. Wu, H. L. Tsai, J. 
R. Yang, Y. S. Huang, “Optical characteristics of 
InGaN/GaN multiple quantum well light emitting 
diodes with modifiable charge asymmetric resonance 
tunneling structure”, Optics and Photonics, Taiwan 
2007, Proceedings-CD, HP-013, 3-pages 
【28】.  Siou-Cheng Lien, Zhe Chuan Feng, 
Chieh-Hsiang Kuan, Rusli, W. E. Collins and Weijie 
Lu, “Bulk 4H-SiC: dependence of free carrier 
concentration with temperature”, Taiwan 2007 TACT 
meeting, Proceedings-CD, #10-2,  4-pages. 
【29】.  Chu Wan Huang, Zhe Chuan Feng, Tzuen-Rong 
Yang and Ting Kai Li, “Optical Prosperities of 
Tb-doped SiO2 Thin Films by Spectroscopic 
Ellipsometry”, Taiwan 2007 TACT, Proceedings-CD, 
#9-20, 4-pages. 
【30】.  Z. C. Feng, Yi-Zhe Huamg, Jyh-Hua Ting, 
Li-Chyong Chen, “Field Emission Properties of 
Muti-wall Carbon Nanotubes”, Taiwan 2007 TACT, 
Proceedings-CD, #5-2, 4-pages.  
【31】.  Z. C. Feng, T. W. Kuo, C. Y. Wu, H. L. Tsai, J. 
R. Yang, Y. S. Huang, “Optical and structural 
properties of InGaN/GaN multiple quantum well light 
emitting diodes with modifiable charge asymmetric 
resonance tunneling structure”, Taiwan 2007 TACT, 
Proceedings-CD, 4-pages. 
【32】.  Z. S. Lee, T. W. Kuo, Z. C. Feng, A. G. Li, L. C. 
Chen, K. H. Chen, “Photoluminescence dynamics of 
InGaN/GaNmultiple quantum well light emitting 
diodes grown by metalorganic chemical vapor 
deposition”, Taiwan 2007 TACT, Proceedings-CD, 
#4-17, 4-pages. 
 
 2
The signals are much stronger than those obtained by ordinary XPS measurements. 
XPS data showed interesting shifts for the core emission bands of C 1s, N 1s, O 1s, and Si 2p 
after sputtering on the Si3N4 film. An explanation is given to that the binding energy of C 1s, N 1s, 
O 1s, and Si 2p shifts toward the lower binding energy after sputtering. Our XPS results shows that 
the individual atoms of Si3N4 thin film tend to combine some specific pollutant, that is, Silicon (Si) 
and Nitrogen (N) atoms are likely to form the chemical bonding with Oxygen (O) and Nitrogen (N). 
The Si 2p and O 1s XPS data show that the environment of the Si3N4 film is oxygen excessive and 
the peak shifts towards lower binding energy, indicating partial out diffusion of excessive oxygen. 
The spectra show that the Si3N4 thin film needs to prevent oxidation and carbonization to provide a 
better-defined structure for device application.  
SR-XAS has been applied to perform the Extended X-ray Absorption Fine-Structure 
Spectroscopy (EXAFS) studies on a series of advanced semiconductor materials, using the XAS 
beam line of 4-15 keV, for the K-edges of Mn (6.539 keV) in Zn1-xMnxO and Zn1-xMnxTe, Se 
(12.658 keV) in CdSexTe1-x, Zn (9.659 keV) in Cd1-xZnxTe, and Ga (10.367 keV) in GaN/Si, with 
different alloy compositions or growth conditions. Another beam line of 1-9 keV is also scheduled 
to use for the measurements of Si K-edge (1.839 keV) XANES of SiN, SiC, SiO and other Si-based 
materials.  
 
Interdisciplinary Studies on Wide Gap GaN, SiC, ZnO Semiconductors,  
Advanced Materials and Quantum Structures 
(2008 May 9, 10:00am, Accelerator Building, Room 208 ) 
Research and developments on wide energy pap GaN, SiC and ZnO based semiconductors, 
related materials and quantum structures are very active in recent years, some of which can also be 
grouped into hard materials. Metalorganic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) and chemical 
vapor deposition (CVD) have been approved powerful technologies for R&D and industry 
production of these materials. This presentation reports on our interdisciplinary studies on these 
materials and structures. A variety of experimental structure, optical, surface and nuclear techniques 
were used for materials analyses and investigation, including high-resolution X-ray diffraction 
(HRXRD), high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM), Raman scattering (RS), 
photoluminescence (PL), photoluminescence excitation (PLE), time resolved (TR) PL, Fourier 
transform infrared (FTIR), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), secondary ion mass 
spectroscopy (SIMS), Rutherford backscattering and ion channeling, Synchrotron radiation (SR) 
high energy XRD and near edge absorption. Works and contributions in these fields from the author 
and colleagues as well as collaborators in recent years are introduced. Some challenging scientific 
issues are raised. Emphasizes are given for RBS and SR studies. 
 
Other attendances from China, Hong Kong, Singapore, USA, UK, Japan, Russia, … have also 
presented attractive presentations, not listed here. 
 
 
[2] Other activities and visits:  
5 月 4 日上午 北京大學建校 110 周年慶祝大會 (University Grand Hall)  
5 月 4 日下午 中外大學校長圓桌會議 (side-listening but missed), visited Olympic Table Tennis Hall 
5 月 7 日 Visited 北京大學物理學院, 人工微結構和介觀物理國家重點實驗室, 北京現代物理研究中心,  
固體物理研究所, 理論物理研究所 
5 月 8 日 Visited 北京大學核子物理與核技術國家重點實驗室 
 
北京大學 have built up many fantastic University buildings in recent year, which impressed me 
sharply, especially the University Grand Hall, Olympic Table Tennis Hall, new library, … 
 
 4
within Taiwan currently. They can help us to overcome these difficulties. 
 
(e) Scientific discussion and exchange with Beijing Synchrotron Radiation facility (BSRF), Director, 
Dr. Hu Tiandou; Director of X-ray absorption spectroscopy, Dr. Xie Yaning; Dr. Wang Huan Hua. 
They have more experiences of using Synchrotron Radiation (SR) technology on semiconductors 
and structures. We’ve established new collaboration relations, and discussions and exchanges with 
them have brought me many useful knowledge and research information. 
 
 
In summary, I’ve performed a very successful conference-visiting trip within about 1-week  
time to Beijing, having attended Beijing Symposium on Modern Physics, Development and 
Applications and given three invited oral presentations, which have attracted very warm and 
encouraging response. These invited presentations have demonstrated and declared important 
research achievements from Taiwan researchers, which are benefiting in raising the name of Taiwan 
in the academic world, and helped to enhance and establish collaboration research with top level 
research laboratories and professors in China, in particular from Peking University and Beijing 
Synchrotron Radiation facility (BSRF). By this trip, I’ve also gain many useful scientific 
knowledge which are very helpful and important to our continual developments in our advanced 
research and work. 
 
 
 
         
馮哲川教授, 國立台灣大學光電所暨電機系  
          2008/6/18 
 2
CONFERENCE TOPICS included: 
1 Communication Systems 
2 Computer Engineering 
3 Biomedical Engineering 
4 Electrical Power Engineering 
5 Circuits, Signals and Systems 
6 Electromagnetic Fields and Waves 
7 Electronic Measurements and Instrumentations 
8 Remote Sensing and Avionics 
9 Opto-Electronics 
10 Guidance and Control 
11 Radar Systems 
 
I’ve attended mainly Topics for Electronic Measurements and Instrumentations, and Opto-Electronics. 
 
[2] Chair the section of Electronic Devices II:  
 
