1 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■成果報告   □期中進度報告 
 
射出成型機關鍵零組件之參數化模型建構 
 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號： NSC 100-2221-E-168 -017 
執行期間： 100 年 8 月 1  日至  101 年 7 月 31  日 
 
執行機構及系所：崑山科技大學 機械工程系 
 
計畫主持人： 孫書煌 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員： 潘湘涵 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
中   華   民   國  101  年  10  月 8  日 
附件一 
 3
報告內容 
1. 前言 
由於塑膠製品大小不一，因此欲進行塑膠成品的射出時當然也需要大小各不同的射出成型
機，因此射出成型機的製造廠都必須生產從小到大一系列完整的機器以滿足客戶的需求，目前較
一般化的射出成型機機種，最小規格大概在50噸左右；而最大規格機種約在3000噸左右。 
為簡化設計，且為提高設計速度，縮短產品上市時間，如以上所言，形狀相同但尺寸不同的
零件很適合利用參數化的技術從一個母體產生從小到大的一系列零件，引入參數化設計技術建構
一套電腦輔助的自動化設計系統。 
要進行上述研究，一套科學化且有系統的設計規範是絕對不可或缺的，透過理論化的探討或
資深工程師的多年設計經驗歸納出各關鍵零件的最佳設計，包括外型結構設計與詳細尺寸設計，
然後將前述各個重要零組件的設計納入規範中，使不論是資深設計工程師或資淺的初入門新手在
進行設計時均能有所遵循，如此方能保證公司能生產出均一且高品質的產品。 
在設計的流程上，若有了設計規範可供依循之後，在相同的工作條件、相同的品質要求之下，
相同系列射出機的各個零組件都將擁有非常類似的外型，所不同的僅是因系列產品所造成的大小
不一的設計，因此接下來即可以很容易地利用規範化後的設計知識，透過參數化設計完成一套重
要零組件自動化設計的輔助系統，將設計規範內所訂定的尺寸關係式內建於系統之中，當設計者
輸入若干尺寸之後，就可以由系統自動且快速地產生完整零組件及組裝圖，甚至自動產生工程
圖，如此一來不僅可以增加設計的正確性，更可提高設計速度。或者假如有某些機器因特殊要求，
而在零件的某些區域會有較特殊的外形設計時，則可先用此參數化輔助設計系統產生一個初始形
狀零件，再從此零件修改成所需形狀，如此也會比從頭開始進行設計在時程上快了許多。 
 
2. 文獻探討 
參數化技術在設計之研究上可分為2D系統與3D系統。早期多運用專家系統、參數式曲線理
論、LISP、限制性資料比對等方法進行2D系統參數化之建構；近年來由於3D實體模型技術的日
漸成熟，設計自動化也隨之進入實體設計領域，在3D設計參數化技術上，大致上可分為：(1)基於
特徵之實體參數式自動化設計、(2)幾何推論式參數化設計、(3)關係式參數化設計等幾大類，如下
所述： 
(a) 基於特徵之實體參數式自動化設計 
Lee [1]對於參數式模型(Parametric Modeling)提出下列定義：「參數式設計模型裡的形體使用
幾何限制和尺寸資料來表達基本要素(Element)」。另外，他對於基於特徵的模型(Feature-based 
Modeling)的定義則是：「基於特徵的模型能在模型的實體上使用常見的單元進行設計工作，且一
個實體的產生除了需有形體單元(Shape Units)之外，尚須有基本的形體實體(Elementary Shape 
Entities)」。由以上兩個觀念延伸，我們可以得知：「一個基於特徵之實體參數式塑型(Parametric 
Feature-based Modeler)是一個CAD架構下的實體幾何模型，其允許使用者在幾何架構下使用特徵
替代之」。簡言之，基於特徵之實體參數式設計的建構是依據特徵(Feature)、零件(Part)與組件
(Assembly)等層級關係繪製整合而成的，定義如圓角、曲面、薄殼等幾何描述之特徵後再加上控
制這些特徵尺寸與其限制方程式，來達到整個零件的設計變更的設計方式。 
近年來基於特徵之實體參數式設計已躍居主流，它保留各功能特徵的原始定義和交互依賴關
係，以類似物件導向的軟體結構，利用封裝來包含特徵所需的資訊，使用成員變數來表示特徵的
靜態屬性，以及其它特徵的關係屬性，其幾何資料與拓樸資料讓設計的經驗可以進行歸納與總
 5
資料使用LISP進行幾何推理程序，以直線及圓弧來代表整個剖面線，進行模具設計參數化之研
究。王俊程[22]發展一套應用在AutoCAD上的2D參數化設計系統，用以配合在鑄造模具上複雜且
重複性高的設計工作，該系統的特點為利用一般文字檔來描述零件的外型，達到零件物件化，並
將整個設計工作簡化，使用者只需針對模具組立圖做設計變更，系統便會自動產生零件圖，該系
統並利用Auto CAD所提供的對話控制語言(DCL)完成使用者界面，減少鑄造模具設計時的繁瑣與
重複性，達到省時省力的目標。 
(c) 關係式參數化設計 
McMahon[23]對於關係式參數化設計的看法是：「此系統的廣度需要讓物件的形體，能夠根
據代數之間的參數化尺寸關係自動地產生變化」。一般而言，本法係運用模具標準設計準則與規
範，於3D CAD系統中先建構基本零件實體檔，再運用CAD系統內建之關係式撰寫模組，定義及
撰寫相關零組件間之關係式，然後建立交談式視窗，輸入相關設計所需之參數，迅速從標準樣本
檔進行模具設變，產生新實體模具，以達到模具設計參數化。 
關於關係式參數化設計探討文獻中，目前比較少看到具有深度的相關文獻探討，僅在於一些
CAD軟體的教學書上看到一些小零件的案例，例如有Debis公司透過關係式參數化設計技術，在
CATIA軟體上，進行模具設計功能擴展的二次開發。 
 
3. 計畫執行方法 
3-1. VB、Excel、SolidWorks間之整合 
本計畫透過Visual Basic程式進行Excel與Solidworks 間的整合，所有關鍵零件的尺寸均紀錄在
Excel檔案中，VB程式可以進入Excel檔案中讀取尺寸數值，再將數值轉給Solidworks進行繪圖的
工作，利用Excel具有公式運算功能，即可以從一個零件的尺寸，藉由已經定義好的公式，推算出
其他零件的尺寸，再利用VB程式驅動Solidworks軟體，即可自動且快速地繪出同一系列的其他所
有零件。 
3-2. 利用Excel推算系列零件尺寸 
本計畫的進行方式首先建立多個Excel檔案，舉例如果一整個系列的射出機中包含大小不同
的機器共十台，每一台射出機共包含需進行參數化設計的關鍵性零件共一百件，則總共會含有100
個Excel檔，每一個Excel檔案就可以利用儲存在裡面的公式計算出一個零件在整個系列中所有大
小不一零件的所有尺寸，在Excel檔案中，每個欄位代表零件的一個尺寸，每個Excel檔會含有多
少欄並不一定，端看該零件共含有多少尺寸即含有多少欄。另外檔案中的每一列即代表這一系列
中的一個零件，因此若如上的舉例，整個系列共有十台機器，則每一個Excel檔案中都會含有10
列。 
根據以往任職於射出成型機製造公司，擔任設計開發工作時所瞭解關於射出成型機關鍵零組
件設計之相關理論及經驗知識，以及在計畫執行中與射出成型機製造公司資深設計工程師的多次
討論，整理出多個關鍵零件各尺寸間的相互關係，如圖1所示，利用曲線擬合方法 (curve fittling)
由這些數值推導出相對應公式，再將些公式儲存於Excel檔中，利用Excel軟體的公式計算功能可
由母體零件(base part) 尺寸求得其他被驅動零件 (derived part) 尺寸，圖2所示即以射出機上一個
稱為「固定壁」的關鍵零組件為例，經過討論並對各重要尺寸命名以資區別，此零件上屬於較重
要且必須以參數式方式進行設計的尺寸共有18項，包括大柱中心…腳足延伸等，每一行欄位即代
表一個尺寸，在列資料方面，第3列的「NEW-30」為此系列的最小機種，因此以此機種為母體，
第4列的「NEW-50」即是由「NEW-30」機種所推算出來的機種，在「NEW-50」機器的固定壁零
 7
等程式語言都可以利用SolidWorks API發展功能模組。由於之前提到SolidWorks本身是OLE伺服
器，利用這一點特性就可以使用OLE參數化的技術，直接在其SolidWorks API系統內建的OLE物
件來撰寫功能模組VB程式，如此便能進行功能模組的開發與設計。 
 (b) 以COM技術的方式來進行SolidWorks API的參數化應用 
組件對象模型也稱元件物件模型，英文為Component Object Model，縮寫為COM，是微軟對
於網頁伺服器與客戶端、增益集與Office系列軟體之間互動的一項軟體元件技術。參數化是指應
用程序的COM來讓外部可以調用它們的功能，以及外部調用這些功能的方法。參數化的典型應用
是微軟的很多軟體中都支持巨集，由於參數化普遍使用OLE的標準界面來實現，所以這個技術有
時也稱OLE參數化。COM是微軟自1993年便提出的元件式軟體平台，用來做行程間通訊
(Inter-Process Communication，IPC)以及當作元件式軟體開發的平台。COM提供跟程式語言無關
的方法實作一個軟體物件，因此可以在其他環境中執行，COM並要求某個軟體元件必須遵照一個
共同的界面，該界面與實作無關，因此可以隱藏實作內容，並且被其他物件在不知道其內部實作
的情形下正確的使用。COM並被實作於多個平台之上，並不限於Windows作業系統之上，但還是
只有Windows最常使用COM。且某些功能已被目前的NET平台取代。 
(c) 錄製巨集(Macro) 
巨集操作的環境為VBA編輯器．在Microsoft Office中。Basic是一種適用於初學者的人機互動
式語言，而早期所有使用巨集的應用程式就是使用Basic語言的通用巨集語言，Microsoft在1993年
推出一種可以讓多種應用程式共享並可針對應用程式內部編譯的語言，就是VBA。但是VBA並不
能歸類為程式語言，它只是Visual Basic語言的應用，它雖然具有完整的程式語言基本結構，且其
程式語法與Visual Basic十分類似，但是其主要功能在於記錄操作的過程。因此設計師在SolidWorks
下將所規劃的參數化操作步驟錄製成巨集，在錄製完成後就會生成VBA程式碼。而程式的設計就
可在VBA編輯器內完成。 
本研究案中使用前述的VBA與OLE混合的方法，在Solidworks環境中建立一個Visual Basic程
式，在程式內部利用SolidWorks API系統內建的OLE物件來撰寫功能模組，然後以VB程式來控制
SolidWorks。在使用SolidWorks API的函式庫時，要先取得SolidWorks API物件，在VB中宣告一個
物件稱為swAPP，然後將swAPP指定為SolidWorks API的最上層物件，再配合SolidWorks API中具
有回傳值的功能函式及欲下達給SolidWorks的指令，就可以達到VB與SolidWorks雙向溝通的目的。 
至於VBA與Excel間的溝通則是使用GetObject取得Excel物件，再執行此物件所屬的
ActiveSheet方法，即可擷取Excel檔案中所指定欄位的數值，其指令格式如下所示，部分程式如圖
3所示。 
Set xl = GetObject(, "Excel.Application")  ‘取得Excel物件 
Set xlsh = xl.ActiveSheet     ‘開啟Excel工作表，並使之作動 
Part.Parameter("D1@基準草圖1").SystemValue = xlsh.Cells(5, 2) / 1000 
‘指定零件中名為D1的尺寸數值等於Excel檔案中作動
工作表中的第 (5,2) 格欄位內含值 
其中第三行中除以1000的原因是因為在SolidWorks API中的尺寸都是以公尺(m)為單位，而在繪圖
區中的尺寸是以公釐(mm)為單位。 
3-4. 執行示範 
(1) 完成一個零件的Excel檔案，如圖4的固定壁零件尺寸檔，此檔案內已含有每一個尺寸該如何從
 9
圖5. NEW-30機器之固定壁零件Solidworks檔案 
圖6. NEW-30機器之固定壁零件Solidworks檔案 
圖7. 自動產生之NEW-50機器之固定壁零件Solidworks檔案 
 1
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                  日期： 101  年 10 月 8 日 
一、參加會議經過 
此次大會提供一個論壇，讓來自學術界和工業界的代表交流信息和想法。希望被邀請的論文
報告人能闡述其開發和應用的創新理念、策略、制度、組織、技術等。會議的目的尤其是應針對經
濟相關領域的研究人員和從業人員所面臨的危機，並設法通過改變發展，因此舉辦了以“展開業務
合作的新時代”為主題的 2012 年這屆 The 7th International Congress on Logistics and SCM Systems 會
議。 
二、與會心得 
參加此次會議可謂收穫良多，帶回了許多在這個領域先進研究學者的寶貴經驗，後續將持續
在領域中鑽研，期許能有更多的研究成果表。 
三、建議 
原先在申請此計畫時並沒預期要參加此國際研討會，後來直到今年(2012)年初才決定投稿此研
討會，因此在去年申請計畫時預估經費並沒有編列出國參加研討會的差旅費，在今年初國前夕，就
職單位的會計室才告知此情況若要申請差旅費必須事先提出經費變更申請，經國科會審核通過後方
得變更。因為出國的差旅費一樣是從計畫中的業務費支出，因此建議在經費申請及支用上能更具彈
性，允許計畫執行者在業務費項下能自行彈性調配之用項目。 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
攜回〝The 7th International Congress on Logistics and SCM Systems〞Proceeding 一本，內含所
有與會共約 150 篇的論文摘要及含有論文全文的光碟片一片。 
 
計畫編號 NSC 100-2221-E-168 -017 
計畫名稱 射出成型機關鍵零組件之參數化模型建構 
出國人員
姓名 孫書煌 
服務機構
及職稱 崑山科技大學機械系 副教授 
會議時間 101 年 6 月 7 日至 101 年 6 月 8 日 會議地點 Seoul, Korea 
會議名稱  The 7th International Congress on Logistics and SCM Systems (ICLS2012) 
發表論文
題目 
Application of Genetic Algorithm in Production Scheuling, A Case 
Study on the Food Processing Business 
附件四 
Application of Genetic Algorithm in Production Scheuling, A 
Case Study on the Food Processing Business 
 
Yu-Chuan Liu1, Shu-Huang Sun2*, Shih-Ming Yang3, and Chung-Yung Chuang4 
1 Tainan University of Technology, Taiwan, t00258@mail.tut.edu.tw 
2* Kun Shan University, Taiwan, sh-sun@mail.ksu.edu.tw 
3 National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan, smyamg@mail.ncku.edu.tw  
4 National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan, p4695122@mail.ncku.edu.tw 
 
Abstract  
Most industrial processes are usually having 
large scale, complex, and non-linear dynamics. It is 
generally acknowledged that genetic algorithm 
(GA) is an effective optimization method in 
scheduling problems. Mixed production scheduling 
for a computer integrated manufacturing system in 
food process business is studied in this paper. The 
objective is to minimize the makespan of the roast 
process with multiple oven chambers by GA. 
Layout of the roast ovens are designed as a oven 
bay and the inter-bay work-in-process (WIP) 
transportation are provided by rail guided vehicles 
(RGV). Mixed production considers WIPs with 
different production recipe settings for ovens will 
be scheduled simultaneously. Constraints of the 
optimum scheduling include the operation 
interlocking prevention and production quality 
constraints. The operation locking arises from the 
improper dispatching and scheduling of the RGV 
under mix production. Production quality 
considered is the over-toasting time for every roast 
oven. These two constraints are coupled. An 
integrated WIP scheduling and RGV and oven 
dispatching is analyzed. Numerical Results show 
that the proposed GA method can provide solutions 
for the dilemma of minimum makesapn with 
acceptable production quality. 
 
Keywords : genetic algorithm, production 
scheduling, machine dispatching, food Processing. 
 
1. Introduction  
Evolutionary computing with genetic algorithm 
(GA) is receiving an increasing interesting to solve 
the real industrial problems. A review for the 
applications of evolutionary computing in 
manufacturing industry, including metal forming 
industry, paper industry, scheduling and process 
planning in production industry, chemical industry, 
and other related manufacturing applications, was 
presented in [1]. Evolutionary computing has 
already played as an important role on many 
industrial operations and will have increasing 
impact in the future. 
Production scheduling is one of the most 
difficult and NP-hard optimization problems. The 
job-shop scheduling problems that represent the 
peculiarities of production efficiency and 
effectiveness in planning and scheduling of jobs, 
resources, and works in process for production 
management and operation research, are widely 
addressed in literatures. The minimization of 
makespan for scheduling jobs with non-identical 
sizes on a single batch processing machine by GA 
was studied in [2]. The near optimal initial 
populations to enhance the effectiveness of GA 
were presented in [3]. Akhshabi [4] proposed a 
mathematical model for single machine scheduling 
with multiple criteria and GA was compared much 
more effective as compared with the traditional 
mathematical programming tools LINGO. 
Multi-objective scheduling and planning in 
manufacturing systems on parallel batch machines 
were studied in [5]. A GA-based integration of the 
process planning and production scheduling, which 
were generally complementary but carried out in 
sequence, was proposed in [6]. In addition to the 
methodology development, engineering 
applications of GA also attracted many research 
interests. Adaptive lot and equipment matching 
strategy for optimal dispatching and scheduling in 
a wafer probe center by GA was studied in [7]. 
Optimum batch sizing problems for parallel 
machines in semiconductor wafer fabrication 
process was analyzed in [8]. A representation 
adjustment algorithm for GA was proposed in [9] 
to deal with the optimized scheduling of plastic 
injection molding production. 
Computer integrated manufacturing (CIM), 
integrating the engineering, production control, and 
manufacturing by information technologies, plays 
as an important strategy to improve the 
performance of a manufacturing firm. Highly 
automated material handling the production 
processes of 300 mm wafer fabrication in 
semiconductor business is one of the most 
complicated CIM systems. Different types of 
automated material handling systems (AMHS) 
including, overhead shuttle (OHV), overhead hoist 
transporter (OHT), automatic guided vehicle 
Proceedings of the7th International C gress on Logistics and SCM Systems (ICLS 2012), June 7-9, 2012. Seoul, Korea
production flow since no matter pork or chicken 
(and duck) pass through this process. Besides, the 
roast recipes, such as temperature, time, humidity, 
and sequence, are very different for distinct 
products. The dispatching of chambers and mixed 
WIPs scheduling with different recipe 
requirements hence become very critical. 
Roast operation can be divided into four 
processes including toasting, smoking, steaming, 
and cooling. There are four ovens for all processed 
except eight ovens for cooling. Every oven consists 
of four chambers that can be occupied by different  
lots in the same time with the same recipe of 
temperature. The process time for different lot in 
different chamber of an oven can be different for 
the process time is decided by when the RGV 
moves the lot to the next process. Every product 
can have different recipes and routings during the 
roasting operation as shown in Table 1. Some 
products may undergo different routings from 
others, like G and J. Some of the products have to 
re-enter to the previous sub-process, as indicated 
by product G with the routing ①→③→①→④ , 
which will make the WIP scheduling and RGV 
and/or oven dispatching more complicated and can 
hardly be solved by conventional mathematical 
optimization. 
Table 1.  Example of recipes and production routing for the roasting operation.
 
process①: toasting process②: smoking process③: steaming process④: cooling 
process sequence Temp. 
(℃) 
Time 
(min) 
Temp. 
(℃) 
Time 
(min) 
Temp. 
(℃) 
Time 
(min) 
Temp. 
(℃) 
A 75 45 75 50 78 40 40 ①→②→③→④ 
B 75 45 75 60 78 50 40 ①→②→③→④ 
C 75 45 75 50 78 40 40 ①→②→③→④ 
D 75 45 75 50 78 40 40 ①→②→③→④ 
E 75 45 75 50 75 40 40 ①→②→③→④ 
F 60 40 60 70 75 25 40 ①→②→③→④ 
G 
first time toasting: 
(55℃/120min)→(65℃/30min)→(70℃/30
min)→(80℃/20min) 
second time toasting: (65℃/60min) 
85 15 40 ①→③→①→④ 
H (50℃/270min)→(65℃/60min)→(75℃/85min) 85 35 40 ①→③→④ 
I (50℃/90min)→(70℃/30min) 75 25 40 ①→③→④ 
J 
(55℃/50min)→ 
(65℃/10min) → 
(75℃/10min) 
65 30 85 40 40 ①→③→②→④ 
 
As described above and data from Table 1, some 
issues are summarized for the roasting operation 
before goes to the solution procedure: 
 (1) Due to the constraints of factory layout and 
production requirements, there is no buffer area 
for the roasting operation. Transportation for 
the load/unload of WIP from different 
chambers of every process by only one RGV. 
Products will be kept in the original chamber 
before been moved to another oven for the next 
sub-process. Consequently, improper 
scheduling and dispatching not only cause 
effectiveness of total makespan, but also yield 
the production quality of over-toasting. 
(2) Different products can be roasted in different 
chambers of the same oven if they have the 
same temperature recipe. This type of mixed 
production for one oven can improve the 
efficiency of oven utilization but will also 
increase the difficulties of scheduling and 
dispatching. 
(3) Operation interlocking can happen due to the 
absence of buffer area and improper 
dispatching of oven and RGV. As indicated in 
Fig. 3, two products X and Y that need to be 
processed. Both include two processes, X-1, 
X-2, Y-1, and Y-2, respectively. Consider the 
case that X-1 is operated on machine S and Y-1 
is operated on machine T. As shown in Fig. 3, 
Y-1 is finished at time interval a and is allowed 
to continue Y-2 on machine S. Since X-1 is still 
operated on machine S, product Y has to stay 
on machine T until X-1 is completed. At time 
interval b as X-1 finished, Y-2 can be 
processed on machine S. However, owing to 
the absence of buffer, neither product X can be 
transported to machine T, nor product Y to 
machine S. To avoid this situation, ovens used 
for latter sub-process must be booked in 
advance. If an oven is booked, no products can 
Products 
Process 
Proceedings of the7th International C gress on Logistics and SCM Systems (ICLS 2012), June 7-9, 2012. Seoul, Korea
satisfied. 
(5) Select better candidates from the recent 
parent chromosomes to create the offspring 
and add them to the new population. 
(6) Mutate the offspring for next solution. 
(7) Return to step (3). 
In order to find the optimal job arrangement, the 
execution priority of each operation sequence is 
used to form the chromosomes of GA as shown in 
Fig. 5. The physical meaning of the chromosome is 
the priority. Higher value indicates the WIP should 
be scheduled earlier. The initial population is 
selected randomly. As the execution priorities are 
given by GA, one can check for all time intervals 
to select the suitable operation sequence for every 
available machine. With the computation of fitness 
function from the objective, one can obtain the 
local optimal solution within the current 
populations. The priority populations with better 
fitness can be selected as candidates to generate the 
offspring. By repeating the evaluation and check 
process, the optimal scheduling can be obtained. 
 
 
Fig. 5 Binary representation of chromosome for 
operation sequences. 
 
4. Numerical Results 
Production portfolio of the first six products 
A~F in Table 1 and each possesses six lots with 
four process ①→②→③→④  are considered as 
illustration examples. The first simulation scenario 
is to minimize the makespan of Eq. (1) with the 
consideration of production routing constraint of 
Eq. (2) only. This is the special case without the 
consideration of process interlock. To avoid 
interlock, the next scenario is to book one chamber 
for every processes of a job. One should note that 
the chamber reservations for all the succeeding 
processes are booked when the first process started, 
as shown as Eq. (3a).  This is due to the limited 
capacity of the RGV, it will not be guaranteed that 
the processed WIP can be transported immediately. 
Consequently, the exact beginning time of next 
process cannot be known.  In addition to the 
limited capacity of the RGV, the roasting operation 
does not have any buffer for WIP storage, hence 
WIP will stay in the chamber until RGV is 
dispatched for transportation.  This will cause the 
over-toasting for WIPs and yield the production 
quality issues. The third scenario is to consider the 
constraint of over-toasting. An allowable range of 
the over-toasting time shown in Eq. (4) is set as 
quality requirements. Only the production schedule 
resulting allowable over-toasting time can be 
considered as feasible scheduling plan. In 
accordance with the guaranteed over-toasting, the 
exact time for the booked chamber to be free can 
be evaluated and the booking time of next process 
can be predicted as Eq. (3b) to improve the 
utilization effectiveness of ovens.  
For the scenario that allowable over-toasting is 
considered, the allowable delay time for 
over-toasting is also coded in the chromosome. As 
shown in Fig. 6, the first genes of each product are 
the execution priority and the next one determines 
the percentage of over-toasting time to the recipe 
setting time. The value of ‘5.2%’ in the second 
chromosome of Fig. 6 means the extra time for the 
WIP to stay in the chamber is up to 5.2% of the 
original recipe setting time.  For example, the 
operation time of F is 40 minutes, the value of 
overheating is 4 minutes.  By setting the 
maximum allowable over-toasting time otaT , the 
production quality can be guaranteed and the 
dispatching of RGV can be predicted to yield better 
utilization.   
 
Fig. 6 Binary representation of chromosome for 
considering the over-toasting. 
 Simulation cases for the three scenarios 
discussed are shown in Table 3.  Case 1 and 2 are 
refer to the first and second scenarios, respectively. 
Cases 3~6 list the different allowable otaT  of 0, 
2%, 5%, and 10%. The 6 cases evaluated in this 
study all consider the same objective function of 
Eq. (1), with the different constraints 
considerations shown in Table 2. Simulation 
results by applying GA to solve the scheduling 
problem are listed in Table 3. Some discussions are 
summarized as followed. 
(1) Without further considerations of constraints, 
a case 1 result shows the minimum makespan, 
yet with maximum over-toasting which will 
not be acceptable. For recipe setting of 
process time 40~70 minutes, from Table 1, a 
23.5% deviation can occur. Such over- 
toasting deviation will certainly cause quality 
issues for the production.  In other words, 
Proceedings of the7th International C gress on Logistics and SCM Systems (ICLS 2012), June 7-9, 2012. Seoul, Korea
[2] A. H. Kashan, B. Karimi, and F. Jolai, 
“Minimizing makespan on a single batch 
processing machine with non-identical job 
sizes: a hybrid genetic approach,” in 
Evolutionary Computation in Combinatorial 
Optimization, Lec. Notes in Comp. Sci., vol. 
3906, pp. 135-146, 2006. 
[3] A. M. Kuczapski, M. V. Micea, L. A. Maniu, 
and V. I. Cretu, “Efficient generation of near 
optimal initial populations to enhance genetic 
algorithms for job-shop scheduling,” Infor. 
Tech. and Cont., vol. 39, no. 1, pp. 32-37, 
2010. 
[4] M. Akhshabi, “A genetic algorithm for 
solving a new mathematical model of single 
machine scheduling with three criteria,” Aust. 
J. of Basic and Appl. Sci., vol. 4, no. 11, 
pp.5564-5570, 2010. 
[5] D. Reichelt and L. Monch, “ Multiobfjective 
scheduling of jobs with incompatible families 
on parallet batch machines,” in Evolutionary 
Computation in Combinatorial Optimization, 
Lec. Notes in Comp. Sci., vol. 3906, pp. 
209-221, 2006. 
[6] X. Shao, X. Li, L. Gao, and C. Zhang, 
“Integration of process planning and 
scheduling—a modified genetic 
algorithm-based approach,” Comp. & Oper. 
Res., vol. 36, no, 6, pp. 2082-2096, 2009. 
[7] T. C. Chiang, Y. S. Shen, and L. C. Fu, 
“Adaptive lot/equipment matching strategy 
and GA based approach for optimized 
dispatching and scheduling in a wafer probe 
center,” Proc. ICRA '04. 2004 IEEE Int. Conf. 
on Robo. and Auto., New Orieans, LA, April 
2004. 
[8] B. Jeong, J. Choi, and J. Sung, ” Optimal 
batch sizing for parallel machines in 
semiconductor wafer fabrication,”, Proc. of 
2010 40th Int. Conf. on Comp. and Indu. Eng. 
(CIE), pp. 1-5, Awaji, July, 2010. 
[9] L. Z. Zhao, Y. B. Wang, G.A. Gao, “An 
adjustment algorithm of the GA 
representation for injection mold 
manufacturing optimized scheduling with 
operation constraint,” Key Eng. Mater., vol. 
392-394, pp. 781-786, 2009. 
[10] H. Gebauer and T. Fischer, “Exploring 
service needs in the Chinese manufacturing 
industry,”  Chinese Management Study, vol. 
3, no. 2,  pp. 143-154, 2009. 
[11] H. Zhang and M. Gen, “Effective genetic 
approach for optimizing advanced planning 
and scheduling in flexible manufacturing 
system,” Proc. of the 8th Ann. Conf. on Gene. 
and Evo. Comp., pp. 1841-1848, Seattle, 
Washiongton, USA, July, 2006. 
[12] B. Shnits, J. Rubinovitz, and D. Sinreich, 
“Multicriteria dynamic scheduling 
methodology for controlling a flexible 
manufacturing system,” Int. J. of Prod. Res., 
vol. 42, no. 17, pp. 3457-3472, Sep. 2004. 
[13] A. Gunasekaran, H. B. Marri, and B. Lee, 
“Design and implementation of computer 
integrated manufacturing in small and 
medium-sized enterprise: a case study,” Int. J. 
of Advanced Manufacturing Technology, vol. 
16, pp. 46-54, 2000. 
 
Yu-Chuan Liu is currently an assistant professor 
in the dept. of information 
management at Tainan Univ. of 
Technology. Dr. Liu had several 
years of R&D experiences in 
industries. He joined the faculty 
in 2002 and his main research 
interest is production and 
operation management. 
 
Shu-Huang Sun is a associate professor of 
Mechanical Engineering dept. 
of Kun Shan University. He 
received his Ph.D. degree in 
Mechanical Engineering from 
National Chen Kung University 
in 1996. His Research interests 
are in area of optimization and 
genetic algorithm. 
 
Shih-Min Yang had been with the institute of 
Aero. and Astro., National 
Cheng Kung University, 
Taiwan since 1989. He is now a 
Distinguished Univ. Professor 
of NCKU. He received Ph.D. 
degree from Univ. of California 
at Berkeley, U.S.A. His current 
interests include MEMS and 
concurrent product design. 
 
Chun-Yung Chuang received his Master degree 
from the National Cheng Kung 
University in 2008. He is 
currently a Ph.D. candidate in 
the Institute of Aero. and 
Astro. His research interests 
are in genetic algorithm and 
optimization of scheduling. 
 
Proceedings of the7th International C gress on Logistics and SCM Systems (ICLS 2012), June 7-9, 2012. Seoul, Korea
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：孫書煌 計畫編號：100-2221-E-168-017- 
計畫名稱：射出成型機關鍵零組件之參數化模型建構 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿 ■撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
此項技術在工業界極具實用性，整個系統雛形已經完成，現正在尋找有興趣的廠商，若尋
找到合作廠商，可將技術轉移給廠商，預期廠商擁有此項技術之後，將可縮短其關鍵零組件
的設計繪圖時間，從而增進其產品的上市速度，增加公司的競爭力。 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
舉凡一般的機器製造廠，不管生產何種機器，常會生產各式的系列機種，在同一系列的機
器中，為滿足生產大小產品之需，常需製造多台功能幾乎相同，形狀也類似，但尺寸從大
到小的機器。而為簡化設計、提高設計速度，形狀相同但尺寸不同的零件很適合利用參數
化的技術，從一個母體產生從小到大的一系列零件。如此幾乎就可等同於從一台機器，透
過複製再加上放大縮小的功能，快速地產生多台同一系列但大小不一的機器。 
要完成上述目標，首先一套科學化且有系統的設計規範是不可或缺的，包括外型結構設計
與詳細尺寸設計，然後將各零組件的設計納入規範中，接下來即可利用規範後的設計知
識，透過參數化設計完成一套零組件自動化設計的輔助系統，將設計規範內所訂定的尺寸
關係式內建於系統中，當設計者輸入若干尺寸之後，就可以由系統自動且快速地產生完整
零組件及組裝圖，甚至自動產生工程圖，如此不僅可以增加設計的正確性，更可提高設計
速度。 
透過在 Solidworks 中撰寫 Visual Basic 程式讀取 Excel 檔案，每個欄位代表零件的一個
尺寸，而產生另一個不同大小零件的尺寸公式也儲存在這些欄位中，每一列代表一個不同
大小的零件，然後在 Solidworks 中先繪製一個母體零件，執行此 Visual Basic 程式後即
可替換原母體零件，自動畫出所有不同大小的零件。 
 
