 2
(一) 中文摘要 
 
無線寬頻技術已被廣泛地應用在無線網際網路存取上。隨著成熟的無線傳輸技術，在應用上一個
嶄新的需求與觀念被提出，即是將無線設備結合公車、火車及一般車輛系統上使用。在行車網路服務
方面，包含了定位、行車安全資訊、即時多媒體…等服務也逐漸受到重視，例如公車上接收數位廣播
電視以及在移動的交通工具上使用網路協助路況資訊的取得。在台灣，每年都有許多因為車輛相撞的
交通意外發生。當然發生交通事故有很多不同的因素，但百分之九十導致意外的發生都是車輛機械問
題、天候不佳或是不當駕駛行為。而統計這些交通意外，很多都是駕駛開車時不注意路況而導致的。
在此子計畫中，我們將藉由無線都會網路 (Wireless Metropolitan Area Networks) 概念設計一個適合傳
輸系統使用之穩健的通訊協定。於 2005 年 11 月，國際電子電機暨工程師協會訂定一個在基地台與使
用著之間支援移動與上層換手的寬頻無線網路 ─ IEEE 802.16e。此規格有極大的潛力成為未來無線寬
頻存取網路底層通訊標準。因此我們將前瞻地採用此標準通訊協定來當作總計劃中所規劃之多點跳躍
車用協定網路 (Multi-hop Vehicular Protocol Networks - MVPNets) 之標準。經仔細研讀此規格後，我們
發現 IEEE802.16e 並不全然適合 MVPNet；其潛在的缺點甚至會造成網路中傳輸效能降低以及產生一
些訊號死角。因此計畫中的另一項工作便是在 IEEE 802.16e上開發我們所提出的多點跳躍車用網路協
定。為了實現車輛對車輛通訊與車輛對路邊設備通訊的能力，此協定將設計一高效率車與車間多點跳
躍轉送的特性，提供此功能以擴大服務範圍以及增強行車系統之傳送效能。如此，基於 IEEE 802.16e 規
格，我們所設計支援車與車間多點跳躍轉送之車用通訊網路將提供即時的行車資訊以達到改善交通意
外。 
 
關鍵詞：IEEE 802.16e MAN, LBS, RP, GPS, RSS. 
 
(二) 英文摘要 
 
Wireless Broadband Access technology has been widely used for applications of wireless Internet access. 
With the matured wireless transmission technology, the new demand on wireless applications is toward the 
concept of deploying wireless devices on transportation systems such as buses, trains and vehicles. It includes 
location positioning, traffic safety, entertainment and multimedia for driving network service. The people 
focus on these services progressively. Every year in Taiwan, about many traffic accidents occur due to 
automobile crashes. While different factors contribute to vehicle crashes, such as vehicle mechanical 
problems and bad weather, driver behavior is considered to be the leading cause of more than 90 percent of all 
accidents. Statistics of car accident cases show that car accidents are often caused from drivers unnoticing 
road situations during driving. In this sub-project, we will design a robust MAC protocol, which is based on 
wireless metropolitan area network standard, to fulfill the requirements of transportation system. In November 
2005, the IEEE 802.16e working  group  has  approved  the  standard  to  support  mobility  and  
higher  layer handover between base station and subscribers. This standard has the potential to become the 
MAC and PHY standard in wireless broadband access networks. Therefore, we decide to use this standard 
protocol as the fundamental transmission protocol in our multi-hop vehicular protocol networks (MVPNets). 
After we studied the specifications, we found that the IEEE 802.16e has some obviously drawbacks, which 
will downgrade the transmission performance and bring coverage problem. Therefore, another important goal 
in this integrated project is to enhance the standard protocol and develop the proposed protocol over the 
 4
經由效能的分析，跟標準的 802.11p比起來，我們提出的 CSS可以達到明顯的 throughput增進。 
 
圖一、802.16e網路、802.11p網路及雙模式的混合型網路 
 
(五) 研究方法 
1. 802.16e之概述 
802.16e 亦可以稱為 WiMAX(Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access)，在分時多工的
WiMAX下，可以將時間分成連續的 frame，frame一般都設為 5ms，而每個 frame又可以分成DL subframe
及 UL subfram。DL subframe的一開始為前置符元(Preamble)，作為MS與 BS同步及頻道估測。再來
是 DL-MAP和 UL-MAP，它們包含了給MS的存取訊息及 information element(IE)。當骨幹網路的資料
透過 BS傳送給所服務的MS時，MS得去解讀 DL-MAP來得知資料在 DL subframe的哪裡，以去接收
資料。反之 ，UL-MAP為告知MS何時在 UL subframe上傳資料或是提出上傳需求。 
2. 802.11p之概述 
在WAVE網路裡頻帶可分為一個 control channel(CCH)及多個 service channel(SCH)。通常 RSU有
多個天線，而 OBU則只有一根天線以節省成本，所以 OBU會在 CCH及數個 SCH間切換來切換去。
RSU 會把時間分成連續且固定長度的 CCH interval 及 SCH interval，一般兩者都設為 50ms。在 CCH 
interval 期間 ，RSU會廣播WAVE服務廣播訊框(WAVE Service Advertisement, WSA)告知服務訊息及
頻道訊息，而讓 OBU知道在 SCH interval時去哪個 SCH channel去競爭存取頻道。為了讓多頻道的操
作更加彈性，IEEE 1609.4 設計了一個頻道存取的方法，Alternating Access Scheme (AAS)，它讓 OBU
會隨著 CCH interval和 SCH interval週期性地切換，並執行在該時間週期裡的工作。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6
這是一個頻道重複利用的問題(channel reuse)，而演算法如下： 
 
 
圖三、CSS演算法 
 8
 
表二、IEEE 802.11p之系統參數 
 
 
圖五、CSS和 AAS在 9個 OBU的拓墣版本 
 
 
圖六、CSS和 AAS在 18個 OBU的拓墣版本 
 
 
 
 
 
 10
(八) 參考文獻 
 
[1]. ASTM E 2213-03, “Standard Specification for Telecommunications and Information  Exchange  
Between Roadside and Vehicle Systems - 5 GHz Band Dedicated Short Range Communications (DSRC) 
Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications,”ASTM International, July 
2003. 
[2]. IEEE Std. 802.11p-2010, “IEEE Standard for Information technology-Telecommunications and 
information exchange between systems–Local and metropolitan area networks-Specific requirements Part 
11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Spec,”IEEE std. 802.11, 
Dec. 2010. 
[3]. IEEE Std. 1609.3-2010, “IEEE Standard for Wireless Access in Vehicular Environments (WAVE) - 
Networking Services,” IEEE std. 802.11, Dec. 2010. 
[4]. IEEE P1609.4 D9.0, “Draft Standard for Wireless Access in Vehicular Environments (WAVE)  -  
Multi-channel  Operation,”  Intelligent  Transportation Systems Committee, Sept. 2010. 
[5]. IEEE Std.  802.11a-1999,  “Part  11:  Wireless  LAN  Medium  Access Control  (MAC)  and  
Physical  Layer  (PHY)  specifications:  High-speed Physical Layer in the 5 GHz Band,” IEEE std. 
802.11, Sept. 1999. 
[6]. IEEE  Std.  802.11-2007,  “Part  11:  Wireless  LAN  Medium  Access Control  (MAC)  and  
Physical  Layer  (PHY)  specifications,”  IEEE  std. 802.11, June 2007. 
[7]. IEEE  Std.  802.11-2007,  “Part  11:  Wireless  LAN  Medium  Access Control  (MAC)  and  
Physical  Layer  (PHY)  specifications,”  IEEE  std. 802.11, June 2007. 
[8]. IEEE Std. 802.16e-2005, “Part 16: Air Interface for Fixed and Mobile Broadband Wireless Access 
Systems,” IEEE std. 802.16, Feb. 2006. 
[9]. G. Tan and  J.  Guttag,  “Time-based  fairness  improves  performance  in multi-rate  WLANs,”  
Proceedings  of  the  USENIX  Annual  Technical Conference on USENIX Annual Technical 
Conference, pp. 23–23, 2004. 
[10]. H. Park and C. kwon Kim, “Performance Analysis of Multi-Rate IEEE 802.11 WLANs with Channel 
Error,” Proceedings of the International Conference on Advanced Communication Technology, vol. 3, 
pp. 1479–1481, Feb. 2007. 
[11]. Y.-C. Tseng, S.-Y. Ni, and E.-Y. Shih, “Adaptive Approaches to Relieving Broadcast Storms in a 
Wireless Multihop Mobile Ad Hoc Network,”IEEE Transactions on Computers, vol. 52, pp. 545–557, 
May 2003. 
[12]. S.-T. Sheu, Y.-C. Cheng, and J.-S.  Wu,  “A  Channel  Access  Scheme to  Compromise  
Throughput  and  Fairness  in  IEEE  802.11p  Multi-Rate/Multi-channel  Wireless  Vehicular  
Networks,”  Proceedings  of  the 71st IEEE Vehicular Technology Conference (VTC 2010 Spring), 
pp. 1–5, May 2010. 
 12
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■ 達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明：本研究內容與原計畫完全相符，並達成預期完成之工作項目與對於參與
人員預期可獲得之訓練，以及對於學術研究、國家發展及其他應用方面
之預期貢獻(論文發表)。 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 ■未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：研究成果已刊登在Wireless Networks (SCI, EI)重要學術期刊，並於 IEEE 
Vehicular Technology Conference Spring 2010 等國際學術研討會發表相關論
文，其餘國內外學術期刊與學術研討會之論文已發表 10餘篇如參考文獻。 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
本研究進度全部與原計畫目標相符，中繼站的模擬器根據規格的內容來
設計，IEEE802.16j規格在制定完成後，已將規格內容實作在模擬器中，完成
基地台、中繼台及行動台共三種不同功能的模擬器。同時，也設計移動式中
繼台與車載環境的設計。研究內容上，穿透式中繼站轉送封包機制為增加
WiMAX 系統上相當有效能的提升，不論在學術上之論文發表及實作都有其
價值所在。 
 
CCH
TCCH TSCH
SCH-1
T
SCH-2
SCH-3
802.11p
WiMAX
…
…
…
…
schudule
P
re
am
b
le
F
C
H
D
L
-M
A
P
U
L
-M
A
P
D
L
 b
u
rs
t 
#
1
D
L
 b
u
rs
t 
#
2
DL burst #3
DL burst #4
DL burst #5
DL burst #6
(RSU)
DL burst #7
DL burst #8 . . .
UL burst #1
UL burst #3
UL burst #5
UL burst #7
UL burst #8
. . .
UL burst #2
UL burst #6
UL burst #4
DL sub-frame UL sub-frame
1. bandwidth request (uplink).
2. channel condition.
3. coordinate.
UL burst content
1. index of access information.
2. action : send or receive.
3. time : when will the node start the 
action.
4. time duration : how many time periods.
5. source : address of source.
6. destination : address of destination.
DL burst content
įįį
Fig. 2. The WiMAX frame structure, the burst content and the alternating
channel access scheme.
to the contention-based MAC protocol. The feature of unstable
channel condition drives the 802.11 standard to support mul-
tiple data transmission rates to exploit the tradeoff between
throughput and reliability. That is, senders use proprietary
rate switching algorithm to select proper data rates suitable
for receivers’ current channel conditions. Such unpredictable
behavior can result in considerable rate diversity, particularly
when the coverage area of network is large.
Usually, wireless nodes are not guaranteed to hear the
signals from all the other nodes and such situation is well
known as hidden node problem in the wireless networks [11].
It has also been shown that the probability of any two nodes
having hidden node relationship is up to 41% when nodes
having the same transmission radius are randomly spread in
the coverage area of access point (AP).
To improve the performance of WAVE network, this paper
proposes the coordinated scheduling scheme (CSS) to let D-
OBUs access the SCHs in a contention-free fashion, which is
accomplished by the assistance from the WiMAX centralized
scheduling capability. The proposed CSS can not only im-
prove WAVE channel utilization but also maintain backward
compatibility. The only needed modifications are 1) part of
the downlink burst in the WiMAX network is used to carry
the scheduling results for the D-OBUs and D-RSUs in WAVE
networks and 2) the D-OBU and D-RSU have to send their
bandwidth requests to the serving base station (BS) in WiMAX
network.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Brief descrip-
tions of the burst contents carried by IEEE 802.16e downlink
map (DL-MAP) information elements (IEs) and the operations
of legacy channel access scheme defined in IEEE 802.11p are
provided in Section II, aiming to supply necessary background
and motivate the discussions. The algorithm of proposed CSS
and an example to illustrate how to accomplish the synergy
of both WiMAX and WAVE networks are then elaborated in
Section II. The simulation results are presented in Section III,
followed by the conclusion remarks in Section IV, which
completes this paper.
II. CENTRALIZED SCHEDULING SCHEME (CSS)
A. Overview of IEEE 802.16e (WiMAX)
In a time-division-duplex WiMAX system, a BS divides
the timeline into contiguous ’frames’, each of which consists
of a downlink (DL) subframe and an uplink (UL) subfrmae
as shown in Fig. 2. The default interval of frame is set to
5ms. The DL subframe is started with a preamble, which
is used for MSs to synchronize with the BS and perform
channel estimation, and followed by DL-MAP and UL-MAP
management messages, which are used to notify MSs about the
corresponding resources allocated to them in the DL and UL
directions respectively. The DL-MAP and UL-MAP messages
respectively consists of DL and UL access information and a
group of information elements (IEs), each of which normally
contains the schedule of resource allocation for one MS only.
It is evident that a BS always has the information about
the needed DL resources for serving the traffic coming from
internet and destining to the associated MSs. However, it
is difficult for a BS to allocate uplink resources without
the assistances from MSs. More specifically, upon an MS
desiring to transmit data packets, it has to issue the bandwidth
request message to the serving BS for requesting the BS to
allocate uplink resources as soon as possible. In a word, a BS
always schedules the uplink resources for the associated MSs
according to the received bandwidth request messages when
the traffic pattern is bursty.
B. Overview of IEEE 802.11p (WAVE)
In a WAVE network, all the messages are transported on
5.9GHz intelligent transportation system licensed frequency
band, which is comprised of one control channel (CCH) and
several service channels (SCHs) as shown in Fig. 2. It indicates
that a typical WAVE network employs multiple channels rather
than single channel used in legacy 802.11 wireless local
area network. However, due to the asymmetric operation, the
RSU usually equips with multiple transceivers, whereas the
OBU equips with a single transceiver for the purpose of
cost reduction. The RSU divides the timeline into contiguous
’synchronization intervals’, each of which consists of a fixed
CCH interval (TCCH ) and a fixed SCH interval (TSCH ). At
the beginning of each channel interval is a guard interval (g)
which is required for switching radio from one channel to
another. The default intervals of the CCH and SCH are set to
50ms, which is ten times longer than the frame during defined
O1
O2
R
O3
O4
O5O6
O9
O8
O7
r1 r1
r1
r1
r1
r1
r1
r1
r1
SCH-1
SCH-2
SCH-3
g
O3 O4 (2)
O1 O2 (2)
O7 O9 (2)
O1 O2 (2)
O5 O4 (2)
O7 O9 (2)
O2 R (3)
O8 O9 (3)
O4 R (3)
O2 R (2)
O6 R (2)
O7 O9 (2)
O9 R
(1)
O2 R
(1)
O6 R ,
(1)
O9 R
(1)
O2 R
(1)
O4 R
(1)
O9 R (4)
O2 R (4)
O9 R (6) …
…
…
V = {(O1, 4), (O2, 7), (O3, 2), (O4, 0), (O5, 2), (O6, 3), (O7, 6), (O8, 3), (O9, 3)}
TSCH
Fig. 4. An example of scheduling model and scheduling result.
bursts which carry the scheduling information sent from the
centralized BS. The UL sub-frame is used for the BS to collect
the bandwidth request information of WAVE devices, which
is mandatory for producing the schedule results for WAVE
devices. One burst is assigned to one user (D-OBU or D-
RSU). The detailed content of DL burst and UL burst are
shown at the bottom of Fig. 2. We also note that even though
the BS assists the WAVE networks, it still keeps the capability
of serving its MSs as the standard does.
D. Algorithm of CSS
To make the system become more efficient, some D-OBUs
may play the role of relay nodes so that the links between a
pair of D-OBUs with good channel condition can be utilized
to forward data packets rather than directly delivering data
packet from OBU to RSU. However, the well known drawback
of multi-hop forwarding is the channel inefficiency, as to
transmit a packet several times over a same channel will
render a potential bottleneck and preponderantly limit the
overall network capacity. As a consequent, the key idea of
the proposed CSS is to let D-OBUs access all available SCHs
simultaneously in order to reduce the waste caused from
redundant transmissions.
Fig. 4 shows an example of the scheduling results for the
network consisting of one D-RSU and nine D-OBUs, where
the links between any pair of nodes have the same transmission
rate r1. In this example, the maximal number of hops between
a D-OBU and the D-RSU is two. According to the information,
including uplink bandwidth, channel condition and coordinate,
provided from the D-OBUs, the CSS is able to estimate the
network topology , and derive the most efficient path from a D-
OBU (source) to the D-RSU (destination). It can be observed
that all derived shortest paths naturally form a tree, in which
the D-RSU is the root. Afterward, the CSS adopts the relaying
technique to guarantee the packets are transmitted along each
path using the highest transmission rate. Moreover, due to the
fact that multi-channel multi-hopping scheduling fully utilizes
the resources of SCH channel in order to accommodate links of
different channel conditions, the performance improvement it
can thus accomplish is much better than standard 11p protocol.
It is worthwhile to note that the remaining unused channel
bandwidth, which is marked as grey color in Fig. 4, can be
used for the other purposes such as data transmissions in
TABLE I
SYSTEM PARAMETERS FOR IEEE 802.16 PROTOCOL
Parameter value
DL/UL permutation PUSC/PUSC
System channel bandwidth 10 MHz
FFT size (NFFT ) 1024
MCS (for data) 64QAM 3/4
Frame duration 5 ms
Number of OFDMA symbols per frame 29
Number of subchannels per frame 30
DL burst content size 27 bytes
UL burst content size 13 bytes
downlink direction.
III. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
In order to compare the performance of the legacy alterna-
tive access scheme (AAS) [4] and the proposed coordinated
scheduling scheme (CSS), the SCH throughput is used as a
primary metric. To concentrate on the performance of CSS
scheme, an error-free channel condition is assumed in the NS2
simulator [17].
The WAVE network under investigation includes one D-
RSU and n D-OBUs, and it supports two data transmission
rates, 6 Mbps and 12 Mbps. The D-RSU is placed at the
center of one-lane straight roadway (5m× 500m) and all D-
OBUs are non-overlapping on the roadway. Assume that each
D-OBU is able to derive the most updated coordinate from
the employed GPS module. Let ρ denote the normalized UL
traffic load corresponding to the maximal traffic load of a D-
OBU (assume 12 Mbps in our model). The UL traffic load
generated from each D-OBU is CBR traffic and the traffic
pattern follows the normal distribution with system parameter
ρ, where the standard deviation is 0.5 Mbps. In order to
investigate the performance of proposed CSS in networks
with different scales, we consider two kinds of scenarios, n=9
and n=18, as shown in Fig. 5 and Fig. 6 respectively. Each
simulation runs lasts 10s and the result is derived by averaging
one hundred thousand simulation runs. The other parameters
adopted in simulations for 802.16e and 802.11p protocols are
listed in TABLE I and TABLE II respectively.
First of all, Fig. 7 illustrates the comparison of the average
SCH throughput derived from the proposed CSS and standard
AAS. It can be observed that the SCH throughput of AAS is
always lower than that of CSS. It indicates that the proposed
 0
 5
 10
 15
 20
 0  0.2  0.4  0.6  0.8  1
SC
H
 th
ro
ug
hp
ut
 (M
bp
s)
ρ
 CSS
 AAS
Fig. 8. Comparisons of SCH throughput derived from CSS and ASS under
the netowrk with 18 D-OBUs.
[6] IEEE Std. 802.11-2007, “Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access
Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) specifications,” IEEE std.
802.11, June 2007.
[7] IEEE Std. 802.11e-2005, “Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access
Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) specifications Amendment
8: Medium Access Control (MAC) Quality of Service Enhancements ,”
IEEE std. 802.11, Sept. 2005.
[8] IEEE Std. 802.16e-2005, “Part 16: Air Interface for Fixed and Mobile
Broadband Wireless Access Systems,” IEEE std. 802.16, Feb. 2006.
[9] G. Tan and J. Guttag, “Time-based fairness improves performance in
multi-rate WLANs,” Proceedings of the USENIX Annual Technical
Conference on USENIX Annual Technical Conference, pp. 23–23, 2004.
[10] H. Park and C. kwon Kim, “Performance Analysis of Multi-Rate IEEE
802.11 WLANs with Channel Error,” Proceedings of the International
Conference on Advanced Communication Technology, vol. 3, pp. 1479–
1481, Feb. 2007.
[11] Y.-C. Tseng, S.-Y. Ni, and E.-Y. Shih, “Adaptive Approaches to Reliev-
ing Broadcast Storms in a Wireless Multihop Mobile Ad Hoc Network,”
IEEE Transactions on Computers, vol. 52, pp. 545–557, May 2003.
[12] S.-T. Sheu, Y.-C. Cheng, and J.-S. Wu, “A Channel Access Scheme
to Compromise Throughput and Fairness in IEEE 802.11p Multi-
Rate/Multi-channel Wireless Vehicular Networks,” Proceedings of the
71st IEEE Vehicular Technology Conference (VTC 2010 Spring), pp. 1–
5, May 2010.
[13] W. J. Klepczynski, “GPS for Precise Time and Time Interval Measure-
ment,” in Global Positioning System: Theory and Applications B. W.
Parkinson and J. J. Spilker, Jr., Eds. Washington, DC: American Institute
of Aeronautics and Astronautics, vol. 2, pp. 483–500, 1996.
[14] IEEE Instrumentation and Measurement Society, “IEEE 1588 Standard
for a Precision Clock Synchronization Protocol for Networked Measure-
ment and Control Systems,” (IEEE Std 1588-2002).
[15] IEEE Instrumentation and Measurement Society, “IEEE 1588 Standard
for a Precision Clock Synchronization Protocol for Networked Measure-
ment and Control Systems,” (IEEE Std. 1588-2008).
[16] Mills, D.L, “Network Time Protocol (Version 3) Specification, Imple-
mentation and Analysis,” (Network Working Group Request for Com-
ments RFC-1305).
[17] Q. Chen, F. Schmidt-Eisenlohr, D. Jiang, M. Torrent-Moreno, L. Del-
grossi, and H. Hartenstein, “Overhaul of IEEE 802.11 Modeling and
Simulation in NS-2,” Proceedings of the 10th ACM Symposium on
Modeling, analysis, and simulation of wireless and mobile systems,
Methodologies and tools, pp. 159–168, 2007.
 message to further save MAP message size. The idea is not only 
to remove GMH of message, but also to move some fields in 
DL-MAP message such as BS ID (48 bits) and frame duration 
code (8 bits) or operator/sector ID (16 bits) and frame duration 
code (8 bits) in the Compressed MAP to Downlink Channel 
Descriptor (DCD) message, as these fields are not changed 
frequently during operation. Paper [6] proposed a burst 
scheduling algorithm, which allocates the minimum number of 
bursts in a frame meanwhile considering fairness performance, 
to alleviate MAP overhead. Paper [7] proposed an advanced 
scheme to piggyback the MAP on data packets in order to save 
the amount of radio resource occupied by MAP IEs. 
Although these proposed MAP messages can decrease the 
MAP overhead, there should have a better compression strategy 
to save more MAP spaces and achieve higher data throughput 
because MAP overhead is mainly dominated by the size of IEs, 
not generic MAC header or common information fields. To 
actually curb channel efficiency degradation and improve 
performance of current IEEE 802.16e protocol on MAP 
broadcasting, the IEEE 802.16Rev2 specification has defined 
another efficient technique, called persistent scheduling, 
whereby resources in frames can be pre-allocated to an MS in a 
persistent manner. However, persistent scheduling is a specific 
technique to reduce MAP overhead for those connections with 
periodic traffic pattern and relatively fixed payload size. It is a 
sensible design for overhead reduction, but by no means the 
most efficient one to handle irregular traffic patterns of popular 
applications such as HTTP, FTP, adaptive multi-rate (AMR)-
based VoIP, sensor applications, and so on. 
 Because DL-MAP overhead usually dominates signaling 
overhead, this study focuses on the overhead reduction scheme 
for DL-MAP. For the sake of brevity, all the ensuing 
discussions apply for the downlink only, unless otherwise noted.  
Recall a key concept in DL-MAP is the shape of burst, which 
is a rectangle arranged in DL subframe for the purpose of 
transporting service flow’s traffic to MS. Due to the number of 
rectangles in a DL subframe is limited and all the rectangles are 
assigned and aligned in a certain and precise way, thereby we 
found that some descriptions in each current DL-MAP IE of 
burst are obviously redundant and removable if an MS can 
reconstruct the DL-MAP from the relationships among bursts. 
The only constrain is that, based on such condensed DL-MAP, 
the reconstructed DL-MAP at each MS has to be unique and the 
same as the original DL-MAP produced by BS.   
In this paper, we propose two exclusive condensed DL-MAP 
structures to minimize the number of bits required for a DL-
MAP IE, thereby combating potential DL resource utilization 
deterioration in IEEE 802.16e mobile networks. In other words, 
this study concentrates on performance improvement on the 
format of DL-MAP IE. 
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. A brief 
description of current IEEE 802.16e DL-MAP IE format and its 
deficiency is provided in Section II, aiming to supply necessary 
background and motivate the discussions. The proposed 
condensed DL-MAP structures and reconstruction algorithms 
are then elaborated in Section III. The analytical results are 
presented in Section IV, followed by the conclusion remarks in 
Section V, which completes the paper. 
II. IEEE 802.16 OFDMA DL SUBFRAME STRUCTURE 
To specify a burst in 2-D resource area, a DL-MAP IE 
consists of four primitive parameters:  
1) OFDMA symbol offset (8-bit),  
2) OFDMA subchannel offset (6-bit),  
3) Number of OFDMA symbols (7-bit), and  
4) Number of OFDMA subchannels (6-bit). 
 The first two parameters locate the coordinate of top-left 
point of the allocated rectangular burst and the other two 
parameters indicate width (x-axis) and height (y-axis) of burst. 
Based upon the DL schedule information broadcasted by BS, 
each MS determines when and where it shall receive data from 
BS, as illustrated in Fig. 1.  
Using a full IE to describe the location and region of burst is 
an intuitive design, but it incurs tremendous overhead. It is 
quite evident that as the number of bursts in a DL subframe 
increases, the overhead accumulated from IEs will significantly 
degrade efficiency of channel capacity. In addition, the large 
MAP size will also increase the frame error probability. Upon 
an MS failing to receive the MAP message, the resources 
allocated to the MS are wasted definitely. So, there are three 
obvious benefits of using shorter IE format: 1) the less resource 
consumed by signaling messages, 2) the lower frame error 
probability and 3) no extra resource required for 
retransmissions due to erroneous MAP reception.  
It is worthwhile to note that the burst information carried in a 
standard DL-MAP IE is independent from the other DL-MAP 
IEs. In our opinion, if the relationships among bursts could be 
described in a more particular way, the major overhead caused 
from DL-MAP IEs could be significantly reduced. 
III. TWO CONDENSED DOWNLINK MAP STRUCTURES 
In IEEE 802.16e mobile network, the DL resource allocation 
and DL-MAP construction are performed by BS on per 
connection basis and per MS basis respectively. In this paper, 
two exclusive condensed DL-MAP structures are proposed. To 
concentrate on the proposed DL-MAP structures, the efficiency 
of scheduler will not be investigated and discussed in this paper. 
The DL subframe under investigation is the standard DL-MAP 
message and each burst is allocated to one MS only. We also 
note that the proposed condensed DL-MAP structures will not 
change the DL resource allocations made by BS. 
Assume that the number of bursts in DL subframe is N. Let S 
and C respectively denote the rightmost offset and the bottom 
offset of DL subframe. The coordinate of top-left corner of DL 
subframe is set as (1,1). We also let B(i) denote the i-th burst 
(1≤i≤N) in the DL subframe and let 4-tuple IE, (Xi, Yi, Wi, Hi), 
denote the information of location and region of burst B(i) in a 
DL subframe, where Xi, Yi, Wi and Hi (Xi, Yi, Wi, Hi≥1) are the 
OFDMA symbol offset, the subchannel offset, the number of 
occupied OFDMA symbols and the number of occupied 
subchannels, respectively, as the information carried in standard 
DL-MAP IE. 
  
Fig. 4. Determinable allocations of bursts in DL subframe when 
MS only refers to the top-left coordinates of bursts. 
 
Fig. 5. Undeterminable allocations of bursts in DL subframe 
when an MS only refers to the top-left coordinates of bursts. 
decide the height of burst B(5) and the width of burst B(7) 
respectively because of burst shape. Fig. 4(a) and 4(b) show 
two typically deterministic cases. Contrarily, Fig. 5 depicts the 
undeterminable burst allocations in DL subframe. Such 
uncertain area may belong to either burst B(i) or B(j), thereby 
MS is unable to rebuild original MAP from condensed DL-
MAP by using aforementioned reconstruction rules. 
To guarantee that an MS can precisely rebuild original DL-
MAP from condensed DL-MAP, the method for resolving 
uncertain areas is required. This paper utilizes the order of IEs 
to resolve the ambiguity issue. The BS first derives the 
coordinate of bottom-right corner of each burst, denoted as 
(X’,Y’) where X’=X+W and Y’=Y+H. Then, BS sorts IEs by 
X’ in descendent order. For those IEs having the same value of 
X’, BS locally sorts them by Y’ in descendent order. After 
sorting, BS finally generates the condensed DL-MAP IEs, 
which only carry original coordinates of top-left corner of 
bursts, according to the sorted result.  
For example, the encoded IE sequences for cases shown in 
Fig. 6(a), 6(b) and 6(c) will be <6,9,7>, <9,6,7> and <9,7,6>, 
respectively, and it is obvious that every IE sequence is unique 
to identify the allocations of bursts. Upon an MS receiving the 
condensed DL-MAP IEs with a specific sequence, it rebuilds 
original DL-MAP IE by allocating bursts into DL subframe 
from bottom-right corner to top-left corner, one by one. For 
instance, the encoded IE sequence of the DL subframe shown in 
Fig. 2 is <9,8,5,6,7,2,3,4,1>. An MS first allocates burst 
B(9)into the bottom-right corner of DL subframe and the width 
and height of burst B(9) is determined by the boundaries of DL 
subframe. Then, MS allocates the second burst, B(8), into the 
DL subframe and it can also derive the width and the height of 
burst B(8) from boundaries formed by DL subframe and burst 
B(9). Based on the arranged IE sequence, MS can derive both 
width and height of every burst, step by step. 
B. (X,Y)-free Structure 
This scheme removes information (X,Y) from standard DL-
MAP IE and an MS needs to recover the missing part from 
 
Fig. 6. Three possibilities of allocating uncertain area to bursts 
B(6), B(7) and B(9).  
 
Fig. 7. Deriving coordinates of bursts from the widths and 
heights of the other bursts. 
relationships among bursts. If the coordinate of top-left corner 
is known and all rectangles are allocated tightly (i.e., the null 
rectangle is treated as a burst rectangle), the coordinate (X,Y) of 
bursts could be derived from widths (W) and heights (H) of 
bursts. As the example illustrated in Fig. 7, we have X5=X1+W1, 
Y4=Y1+H1+H2+H3, and so on. It implies that ambiguity would 
not happen because the size of every rectangle is known. The 
key problem is the sequence of offset recovery. The 
reconstruction rule is similar to (W,H)-free scheme, where the 
condensed IEs are sorted. In (X,Y)-free scheme, the BS sorts IEs 
by X in ascendant order. For those IEs having the same value of 
X, BS locally sorts them by Y in ascendant order. After sorting, 
the BS generates the condensed DL-MAP IEs, which only carry 
the original values of W and H of bursts, according to the sorted 
result. It confirms the offsets X and Y are redundant because 
they can be recovered by the information W and H. 
Considering Fig. 2 for example again, the encoded IE 
sequence of DL subframe in (X,Y)-free structure is 
<1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9>. Based on the ordered condensed DL-MAP 
IEs, MS searches the top-left slot in X-axis, which is not 
allocated to any burst yet, and the coordinate of the slot is the 
top-left corner of the associated burst. For example, MS assigns 
the top-left corner of DL subframe as the coordinate of burst 
B(1) and it also marks the slots within the region as allocated. 
Then, the MS searches the next unallocated top-left slot in DL 
subframe and then assigns the coordinate to burst B(2) as 
previous step. Based on the arranged IE sequence, every MS 
can easily derive all the coordinates of bursts, step by step. 
IV. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 
In order to compare the overhead of standard DL-MAP and 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/02/01
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫一 : IEEE 802.16e WMAN 為基礎之多點跳躍車輛網路協定之設計
計畫主持人: 許獻聰
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-008-056-MY2 學門領域: 網路
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
