the situation always occurs that the received 
merchandise doesn＇t match with the description of 
the site or the customer doesn＇t receive the 
merchandise when he has paid the money. There are the 
reasons why the users don＇t use electronic payment 
system. 
 
Therefore, the study proposes the properties of 
convenience and security for an electronic payment 
protocol. It＇s anonymous for customer｀s identity 
which is known by the trading platform and bank which 
issues the cards. The shop transaction platform will 
give the customer an anonymous name when the 
transaction was finished. An attacker can＇t 
understand customer＇s identity and habits of 
purchase even if he retrieves the message. The 
customer can implement transactions in a computer or 
mobile device while they don＇t need to install 
additional software. This study use dual 
authentication for enhancing security by customers 
and shops. It builds up the business management 
platform by using the centralized concept. The 
customers only need to register an account and then 
negotiate a session key with the trading platform. 
The session key can encrypt and decrypt the trading 
message with any other stores and the customer 
doesn＇t need to store the session key of every shop.
 
This study focuses on the rights of customers by 
using ＇Cash on Delivery＇ concept which gives 
customers a safe guarantee. Once the customers 
receive the merchandise they want, the bank has to 
deduct the money for customer＇s account immediately. 
Therefore, it provides more protection by deducting 
the amounts of the customer＇s account or inserting a 
bill when the customer did receive the merchandise. 
There is a third party, which was witnessed by 
Financial Information Service Co., to make a 
confirmation which can avoid the mistake of 
transferring money. This study promises customers 
ease the use of electronic payments without worrying 
about the Internet fraud. 
 1 
具公平性之安全付款機制之研究成果報告 
 
摘要 
網際網路的興起，帶動了電子商務的發展。根據資策會 MIC指出，不管是否
曾使用過網路拍賣，使用者認為網路交易不夠安全的比例高達六成。如何建立一
個安全、便利的電子商務應用環境，是使用者十分關注的話題。多數電子付款系
統文獻著重在整個交易流程的安全性，確保交易的資訊不外露給參與角色以外的
人知道，往往忽略了顧客的權益。常發生商品與網站上的描述不符或顧客付了款
卻收不到商品等問題，這也造成一些使用者不敢再使用電子付款的原因。 
因此，本研究提供一個兼具方便性與安全性的電子付款機制。顧客的身分皆
以匿名的方式呈現，只有商家交易平台與發卡銀行知道顧客真正的身分。每次交
易完成後，商家交易平台會給顧客一個新的匿名名稱。即使攻擊者從中擷取訊息
時，也不能得知顧客真正身分，無法從中推測顧客的消費習慣。顧客不需額外安
裝軟體只要透過智慧卡都可在電腦或行動裝置上執行交易。本機制使用雙認證的
方式來加強安全防護較低的顧客與商店做身分驗證。利用集中式的觀念建立商家
的管理平台，顧客只需向商家交易平台註冊並協議一把金鑰，就能與其它商店做
交易訊息的加解密，不需儲存每家商店的金鑰。 
本研究主要以顧客的權益為出發點，利用「貨到付款」的概念讓顧客使用電
子付款更有保障。當顧客確實已收到商品後，銀行才會將金額轉移給商家。因此，
在商家運送商品前已先扣抵顧客帳戶的金額或直接加在顧客的帳單上，對商家與
收單銀行而言也較有保障。為了避免發生金額移轉的烏龍事件，有關金流的資訊
需要透過公正第三方－金資中心來做見證。本研究希望能讓顧客安心使用電子付
款，不必擔心網路詐騙。 
 
關鍵字：電子付款、使用者認證、匿名性、智慧卡 
 
一、前言 
隨著網路科技的快速發展，越來越多的服務開始使用線上作業，利用網際網
路的便利性來提供使用者進行資訊的交流，但是在網際網路開放的環境下，伺服
器很難確認使用者是否為合法，因此雙方身份的驗證就變的十分重要。當使用者
透過網路傳送訊息時容易遭到擷取、篡改等不法行為的侵害，也可能發生雙方否
認已傳送或接收訊息等問題，故在開放的網際網路交易時必須驗證雙方身份，以
防他人冒名傳送，又必須能保持傳送資料內容的完整，以防被擷取、刪除或篡改，
同時確保發送方無法否認已送出資料，接收方也無法否認已收到資料等問題。使
用者身份驗證一直是網路系統中最基本的安全機制，也有許多學者紛紛提出改善
 3 
研究的目的為提供一個兼備方便性與安全性的電子付款機制，讓使用者透過智慧
卡不論在家用電腦或行動裝置上皆可執行交易，也避免安裝不明的軟體而遭植入
木馬程式。 
 
三、文獻探討 
電子付款為電子商務重要的一部分，通常消費者在線上購物商品完成後隨即
付款，電子商務的特性為購物與付款都採用電子化作業，能夠全天候的服務，消
費者透過網頁就能瀏灠商品資訊，買賣方能達到雙贏的成效。因為在開放式的網
路傳輸私密性的資料，所以電子付款需要使用加密技術進行安全的處理，才能保
護傳輸資料，因此加密安全技術就成為電子付款的關鍵因素。 
 
圖 2.11 付款系統概念圖[13] 
四、研究方法 
本計劃所設計之機制其流程分成註冊、登入與驗證、購買、扣款、商品運送、
金額移轉六個階段，圖 1為付款流程架構圖，底下將針對六個階段應完成之工作
逐一介紹。 
 
圖 1 本機制購物付款流程架構圖 
 5 
心，當收單銀行驗證商店的身分後，會透過金資中心將訊息傳給發卡銀行，而發
卡銀行在驗證顧客身分與扣款成功後，也會透過金資中心將訊息傳給商店，在交
易完成後如果對於金流部分有問題，可向金資中心查詢交易的流程內容。 
當發卡行收到商店身分結果後，並驗證顧客的身分，如果兩者身分皆合法
後，發卡行會將此筆消費金額從顧客的帳戶扣除，並產生金額扣除成功的訊息，
發卡行會將顧客與商店的身分驗證結果、扣款成功訊息、消費總額以及發卡行隨
機產生亂數 N先簽章起來再用商家交易平台的公開金鑰加密，因為顧客與商家交
易平台有共享一把金鑰所以發卡行會透過商家交易平台把訊息傳給顧客，而亂數
為當顧客收到商品回傳訊息給發卡行的一個識別參數，因為內容都是公開性的資
訊並無付款資料，所以並不會洩露顧客的隱私。 
4.5 商品運送階段 
當商店接收到發卡銀行扣款成功訊息後，此時商家交易平台才會將顧客的個
人資訊傳給商店，而商店依據商家交易平台所給的顧客資訊將商品運送到顧客的
手上。 
商店交易平台收到商店的訊息後，會把交易代碼、商店名稱、商店 1的出貨
訊息、訂單資訊、下次交易顧客的新匿名、收單行名稱及發卡行的訊息利用之間
協議的對稱式金鑰一併傳給顧客，通知顧客商店已將購買的商品出貨。 
4.6 金額移轉階段 
當顧客收到商品後，會傳送訊息通知發卡銀行將金額移轉給商店所屬的收單
銀行，而發卡銀行在執行金額移轉動作後，也會通知金資中心。為了避免顧客收
到商品遲遲未通知發卡銀行的情況發生，本機制根據消基法，在七日內若未收到
顧客不滿意的投訴，則視顧客已收到商品且商品無瑕疵，發卡銀行在七日後會自
動將金額移轉給收單銀行。 
發卡行確認顧客的身分、隨機亂數、消費總額無誤後，隨即將金額移轉給指
定的收單行。並把發卡行、收單行及消費總額傳給金資中心，金資中心會將此筆
交易的發卡行、收單行及消費總額記錄於伺服器中，作為日後消費者或銀行查詢
用。 
 
五、結果與討論 
隨著網際網路興起帶動電子商務的發展，其媒介打破時間與空間的侷限，可
以在網頁上看到多元豐富化的產品資訊，給予消費者最完整的購物資訊，對商家
而言，網路商店可減少管銷成本，而對消費者而言，能在短時間內貨比三家，找
到自己滿意的商品。雖然現行的交易安全機制已使用普遍，不幸的是，大眾認為
網路交易不夠安全的比例仍高達六成，網路詐騙頻傳，大眾害怕付了錢卻遲遲收
不到商品或個人資料外洩遭盜用等因素都是阻礙電子付款推行的關鍵因素。 
 7 
[4] Tan Soo Fun, Leau Yu Beng, Jonathan Likoh, Rozaini Roslan, “A Lightweight 
and Private Mobile Payment Protocol by Using Mobile Network Operator”, 
Proceedings of the International Conference on Computer and Communication 
Engineering , 2008, pp. 162-166. 
[5] Wu Shyi-Tsong, Chieu Bin-Chang. “A user friendly remote authentication 
scheme with smart cards”. Comput Secur 2003, Vol. 22, Issue 6. 
[6] Y.F. Chang, C.C. Chang, “Authentication schemes with no verification table”, 
Applied Mathematics and computation, 2005, Vol. 167, No. 2, pp. 820-832. 
[7] 古炎秋，”以交易碼為基礎結合安全行動裝置的電子付款機制”，全國博碩士
論文資訊網，2004。 
[8] 朱天元，”新電子付款機制及其安全性之研究”，全國博碩士論文資訊網，
2004。 
[9] 湯宗泰，劉文良，”電子商務Web 2.0思維”，學貫行銷股份有限公司，2008。 
[10] 葉慈章，周韋伶，”具不可否認性的行動信用卡付款協定”，台灣商管與資訊
研討會，2006。 
[11] 賴榮樞譯，密碼學與網路安全，開發圖書有限公司，2007。 
[12] 蔡佳倫，李榮耀，”一種可攻擊學者 Chang等人之驗證機制的使用者偽裝
攻擊”， TANET2007臺灣網際網路研討會論文集(一)，2007。 
[13] 各種付款機制介紹 http://insa.comm.ccu.edu.tw/moe/doc/E-Payment.ppt   
[14] 現行網路安全付款機制 http://www.csie.nctu.edu.tw/~project/2003/team7/   
[15] 特洛伊木馬程式 http://cissnet.edu.tw/knowledge_02.aspx   
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 100-2221-E-218-037- 
計畫名稱 具安全性與公平性之電子付款機制之研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
陳炳彰 
南台科技大學資訊傳播系助理教授 
會議時間地點 2012/06/02~2012/06/03 香港 8度海逸飯店 
會議名稱 International Conference on Advancements in Information Technology (ICAIT 2012) 
發表論文題目 Provably Secure Threshold Proxy Signature Scheme Based on Factoring 
 
一、參加會議經過 
原訂 2012/03/11~2012/03/12 要參加”2012 International Conference on Security 
Science and Technology – ICSST” 在香港所舉行的研討會，但因臨時有家務在身，無法
成行。因此，參加了同樣在香港舉行的研討會  ”International Conference on 
Advancements in Information Technology”。此研討會是一個以資訊技術為主的研討會。
雖然並非全部以資訊安全為主，包含的內容較為多元，可透過知識的分享找尋可以整合
研究的契機。ICAIT是由新加坡 Singapore Institute of Electronics(SIE)所主辦，這是第一
屆舉辦的研討會，第二屆 ICAIT也將移師回新加坡。圖一為 ICAIT在香港 8度海逸飯店
的研討會場地。 
 
圖一 8度海逸飯店 
 
二、與會心得 
ICAIT 2012在這次的審查中，接到了超過 100篇從各個國家所投出之稿件，錄取率
僅有 35%。這次研討會的主題包含了網路技術、資訊安全、資訊教育、醫療照護等資訊
 
圖三 接受信 
included in the proxy signatures. In delegation by warrant [9,12], the original signer signs a warrant, which 
certifies that the signer is actually the legal proxy signer. Delegation by warrant can be implemented by 
ordinary digital signature schemes without any modification, and it is appropriate for restricting documents 
to be signed, e.g., a warrant states its valid period. Usually, delegation by warrant incurs more computational 
cost than the above. In [11], Kim et al. proposed a proxy signature scheme which is a partial delegation with 
warrant enjoying the computational advantage over the proxy signature by warrant and the structure 
advantage over the proxy signature for partial delegation. In this paper, we are interested in the partial 
delegation with warrant because it is more secure and more efficient than other types of delegation. For 
simplicity, in this paper we call “the partial delegation with warrant” the proxy signature if it doesn’t lead to 
any confusion.  
In order to disperse the risk that the proxy signing key kept by a proxy signer is stolen or lost, the 
original signer may distribute his signing authority to a group of proxy signers he delegates. A (t, n) 
threshold proxy signature scheme [8,11,16,17,20] is a scheme which allows any t or more proxy signers from 
a designated group of n proxy signers to cooperatively sign messages on behalf of the original signer, while t 
-1 or less proxy signers cannot generate any valid proxy signatures. Each of the proxy signers can generate a 
partial proxy signature on behalf of the original signer. So far, most of these existing (t, n) threshold proxy 
signature schemes were also based on the discrete logarithm problem [8,11,16,17,20]. The only known 
threshold proxy signature scheme based on the factoring problem was due to Hwang et al. [6]. Unfortunately 
Hwang et al.’s scheme is insecure against the original signer’s forgery in which the original signer can create 
a valid proxy signature, while the proxy group cannot deny this proxy signature [18].  
In recent these years, a formal security proof is becoming a requisite for a secure protocol or scheme. 
The first emergence with formal proof was shown under the random oracle model in [2]. From then, many 
researchers showed the security of their schemes according to this model. In proxy signatures, the first 
provably secure scheme was occurred in [1], another distributed proxy signature scheme [7] was also 
provided by a formal security proof. In this paper, we propose a factoring-based threshold proxy signature 
scheme and also provide the security proof [2,3,4,5] afterwards. 
2. Threshold Proxy Signature Scheme Based on Factoring 
A threshold proxy signature scheme [8,11,16,17,20] allows t out of n proxy signers to sign messages on 
behalf of the original signer. In this section, we propose a new threshold proxy signature scheme based on 
factoring. Besides, we also provide the security proof for the proposed scheme. 
In [5], Guillou and Quisquater proposed a signature scheme, GQ scheme in short, in which its security is 
based on factoring. The security of GQ signature scheme is based on factoring, i.e. RSA [15]. Later, there 
were two schemes proposed based on GQ signature scheme, one is forward-secure [9] and the other one is 
signer-base intrusion-resilient signature [10]. In these two schemes, the authors provide a formal proof for 
their schemes. In this paper, we refer to these papers and propose a threshold proxy signature scheme based 
on factoring. 
2.1. System Parameters 
In this scheme, it needs a trusted third party(TTP) to help the original signer and proxy signers for the 
generation of system parameters. First, the TTP selects a large composite number n which is composed of 
two large primes p1 and p2. That is, n = p1 · p2, where p1, p2 are randomly chosen by the TTP. Besides, the 
original signer generates two primes e1 and e2 for computing public keys, generating proxy signatures, and 
verifying proxy signatures. Then, the original signer chooses his secret key soriginal randomly in *nz , and 
computes the corresponding public key nsp eeoriginaloriginal mod21
⋅= . In this scheme, the original signer has to 
delegate his signing power to n proxy signers. Therefore, every proxy signer i(i = 1~n) needs to choose his 
secret key sproxy(i) randomly in *nz  , and computes the corresponding public key nsp
ee
iproxyiproxy mod21 )()(
⋅= . In 
order to designate a user to be a proxy signer, the original signer prepares an appropriate warrant Mw to claim 
these proxy signers can sign messages collectively on behalf of him. The warrant includes the identities of 
the proxy signers and original signer, and other useful information such as delegation period. Moreover, the 
original signer sends e1Mw to TTP for requiring the n sub-shares of proxy signers. The TTP selects a 
Proof. There exists an adversary A who wishes to forge a threshold proxy signature with querying the 
random(hash) oracle H and the signature oracle S. There is another adversary B which is devoted to factor 
the number N and find out β, given βr = α mod n where α, n, r are known. In the experiment, B uses the 
threshold proxy signatures of A’s forgery to accomplish its task, and furthermore B provides the signature 
and hashing queries of A. 
In the simulation, the adversary A can query on the random oracle and signature oracle which are totally 
controlled by the adversary B. Therefore, B needs to maintain these two databases and answer A’s query. 
Initially, B sets the random oracle and signature oracle to be empty. 
When A queries the random oracle on the tuple (e2, y, M), B first checks whether (e2, y, M) was queried 
before. If it was, B returns the corresponding result σ in the database to A. Otherwise, B chooses a random 
number σ’ and sends back to A. Then B keeps the pair σ’ and (e2, y, M) in the database for the future query. 
Moreover, A can query the signature oracle on a message which is not the message he wants to forge. In 
this case, we can simulate the behavior of chosen-message attack. When A queries the signature oracle on a 
message M, B first chooses two random number z and σ. B prepares a warrant Mw, the verifying key 
∏
∈Ti
iproxyoriginal pp )(  and e2, and then computes
σ⋅
∈
∏⋅⋅= wM
Ti
iproxyoriginal
e ppzy )/(1' )(2  .  
B checks whether the pair σ and (e2, y, M) are in the database of random oracle. If they are not, then B 
keeps the pair σ and (e2, y, M) in the database for the future query. At last, B returns the result signature (M, z, 
σ, e2, Mw, pproxy(i∈T)) to A. 
If A outputs a forged threshold proxy signature (M, z, σ, e2, Mw, pproxy(i∈T)), then the hashing oracle has 
been queried on (e2, y, M), where  
σ⋅⋅= wMsig
e pzy 2 .  
B then comes up with a random tape for F , remembers it, and runs F on that tape. Therefore, B needs to 
maintain two tables, a random oracle H and a signature oracle S. 
Because B controls the random oracle, he can answer the signature queries at random. If there is a 
signature query on message M, it is 
'
)()( )/(1')/(1' 22
σσ ⋅
∈
⋅
∈
∏∏ ⋅⋅=⋅⋅= ww M
Ti
iproxyoriginal
eM
Ti
iproxyoriginal
e ppzppzy  
Let Ppp wM
Ti
iproxyoriginal =⋅∏
∈
)/(1 )( . 
Then, )'(2)'/( σσ −= Pzz e  
By Lemma 1, we can find two numbers f1 and f2 using the equation 1)'( 221 =+− eff σσ  by Euclid’s 
extended gcd algorithm, where 1)),'(( 2 =− eGCD σσ . 
Therefore, B can compute the e2-th root of psig which is nPzzc ff mod)'/( 21 ⋅= . 
We can check the correctness as below. 
wM
Ti
iproxyoriginal
effefefe ppPPPPzzc )/(1)'/( )(
)'( 22122212 ∏
∈
− ⋅==⋅=⋅= σσ  
4. Conclusions 
Proxy signatures are becoming more and more important in the future. Many people work on the Internet 
and sign messages (contracts, documents, etc.) in the environment, too. Once they cannot sign an important 
message personally because they are busy with something, they have to delegate his signing authority to 
proxy signers on behalf of him. Therefore proxy signature schemes can be used in this situation. In order to 
disperse the signing authority, the original signer may distribute his signing authority to a group of proxy 
signers he delegates. A (t, n) threshold proxy signature scheme is proposed to allows any t or more proxy 
signers from a designated group of n proxy signers to cooperatively sign messages on behalf of the original 
signer. In this paper, we propose a factoring-based threshold proxy signature scheme and also provide the 
security proof. 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/18
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 具安全性與公平性之電子付款機制之研究
計畫主持人: 陳炳彰
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-218-037- 學門領域: 資訊安全
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
