 2
 
中文摘要 
 
數位影像關係法是一個全區域、非接觸式
的應變量測方法。這個方法是對試片變形
前及變形後的表面取影像，然後比對變形
前及變形後的數位影像以找出某一小區域
的位移及應變。為了找出變形後的小區
域，本文利用混合型基因演算法，這個方
法是結合模擬退火法、適應機制、及實數
型基因演算法。本文將這個方法應用至鎳
薄膜做成的微小試片以量取其變。除了利
用單一小區域來量取應變，本文亦利用兩
個小區域之間的位移來量取應變。結果顯
示，由單一小區域所得到的應變值雖然還
不錯，但是由於兩個小區域所得到的應變
值郤更準確。利用這樣的方法可以準確的
得到鎳薄膜的機械性質。同時也將這個方
法應用到高應變梯度的區域，如具有圓孔
的平板，結果顯示本方法亦可成功得到高
變梯度區域的應變，並做破壞預測。 
 
關鍵詞：數位影像關係法、應變、基因演
算法、微拉伸、鎳、應變梯度 
  
Abstract 
Digital image correlation is a whole-field and 
non-contact strain measuring method. It 
could provide deformation information of a 
specimen by processing two digital images 
captured before and after the deformation. To 
search the deformed images, a hybrid genetic 
algorithm, in which a simulated annealing 
mutation process and adaptive mechanisms 
are combined with a real-parameter genetic 
algorithm, is adopted. This method is used to 
measure the strain during the micro tensile 
testing of nickel thin film. In addition to the 
conventional single region, a double region 
in which the strain is inferred from the 
distance change of two regions is proposed to 
calculate the strain by digital image 
correlation. The results indicate that while 
the strains obtained by single region are 
reasonable, those obtained by double region 
are more accurate. Also the mechanical 
properties of nickel thin film could be 
obtained. In addition, this method is applied 
to obtain the strain in a high strain-gradient 
region around a hole in a plate under uniaxial 
tensile testing. To judge the quality of the 
obtained strain data, these data are compared 
to those obtained by strain gauge. The result 
indicates that the strain in a high 
strain-gradient region could be reasonably 
determined by the present method. 
 
Keywords: digital image correlation, genetic 
algorithm, strain, micro tensile test, nickel, 
strain-gradient. 
 
1. Introduction 
Digital image correlation (DIC) is a 
whole-field and non-contact deformation 
measuring method. It could provide 
deformation information of a specimen by 
processing two digital images that are 
captured before and after the deformation. As 
compared to the special requirements of the 
traditional optical measurements, such as 
photoelasticity, moiré, speckle 
interferometrgy, and holography, digital 
image correlation is an easy and cheap 
method because it takes advantage of the 
natural speckle pattern on the specimen 
surface and only digital images taken by 
charge coupled device (CCD) camera are 
processed. 
In 1982 Peters and Ranson [1] first 
employed digital image correlation for 
displacement and strain measurement under 
the assumption that there is a one-to-one 
correspondence on the intensity pattern of 
surface images before and after deformation. 
Two displacements and four displacement 
gradients were searched for in-plane 
deformation. Sutton et al. [2] defined the 
intensity difference of two digital images as a 
correlation coefficient and deduced the 
two-dimensional displacements of the 
centerline of a cantilever beam with an end 
load. Chu et al. [3] utilized a 
cross-correlation coefficient as an objective 
function and measured the rigid body 
translation, rigid body rotation, and uniaxial 
uniform strain. Their results also indicated 
that a bilinear interpolation may be better 
 4
especially when the strains and 
displacements are obtained simultaneously. 
 
2. Digital image correlation 
On using the discrete pixels of a digital 
image and their grey level values for 
intensity, these data are recorded as a 
two-dimensional array. Under the 
assumption that there is a one-to-one 
correspondence on the intensity pattern of 
two images taken before and after a 
deformation increment, one could deduce the 
deformation information from the intensity 
pattern. To remain within the limit of linear 
approximation of the deformation, a region 
of pixels called subset should be small 
enough. If a subset is arbitrarily chosen from 
the image taken before a deformation 
increment and a reference point ( )00, yx  as 
well as a nearby point ( )yx,  is selected 
from this subset as shown in Fig. 1, the 
position ( )'' , yx  of the nearby point after 
the deformation increment could be 
described as 
dy
y
udx
x
uuxx ∂
∂+∂
∂+=−'  (1) 
dy
y
vdx
x
vvyy ∂
∂+∂
∂+=−'  (2) 
where ( )vu,  are the displacements of the 
reference point, and ( )dydx,  are the 
position differences of the reference point 
and the nearby point before deformation. The 
components of the first-order displacement 
gradient are denoted as xu ∂∂ , yu ∂∂ , 
xv ∂∂ , and yv ∂∂ . Since only a 
two-dimensional deformation is considered 
in the above equations, one needs two 
displacement components and four 
displacement gradient components to 
describe the position of a nearby point. 
Generally, the positions of the reference 
point and the nearby point after deformation 
are not located at the pixel points of the 
digital image, and there are no grey level 
values for these points. Hence, interpolation 
is necessary to retrieve their grey level 
values such that the intensity pattern of the 
subset could be obtained. In this work, a 
bilinear interpolation is used. In the bilinear 
interpolation, the grey level value ),( yxI  at 
a point located between four pixel points is 
obtained as 
4321),( axyayaxayxI +++=  
where ia  are constants that could be 
obtained from the grey level values of the 
four nearby pixel points. 
Under the assumption and limit described 
above, one could find a subset in the 
deformed image that is correspondent to the 
undeformed subset by considering the 
displacements and displacement gradients. 
To represent the correlation of these two 
subsets, a cross-correlation coefficient or a 
least squares correlation coefficient is 
commonly used. For simplicity, this least 
squares correlation coefficient Φ  is utilized 
in this work and defined as 
( ) ( )[ ]∑2/
2/-,
2''
21 ,-,
Cz
Czji
jiji yxIyxI
=
=Φ
where ( )ji yxI ,1  and ( )''2 , ji yxI  denote the 
intensities of the points in the subsets from 
the undeformed image and the deformed 
image, respectively. The size of the subset is 
represented as CzxCz. Now it could be 
considered as an optimization problem in 
which the correlation coefficient is to be 
minimized and the design variables are the 
two displacements and the four displacement 
gradients as described in Eqs.(1-2). In 
addition, to include the effect of offset of a 
grey level value that could result from the 
difference in the brightness of the images, an 
offset value w is added in Eq. (4) as 
( ) ( )[ ]∑2/
2/-,
2''
21 ,-,
Cz
Czji
jiji wyxIyxI
=
+=Φ
If the dimension of subset is small, the offset 
value could approximate the out-of-plane 
displacement. 
 
3. Hybrid Genetic Algorithm 
A novel hybrid algorithm based on 
real-parameter GA (RGA) [16] is introduced 
in this section. This novel hybrid algorithm 
maintains the merit of RGA by using its 
crossover and mutation processes and adds 
simulated annealing as another mutation 
process. Also adaptive mechanisms are 
 6
for some consecutive generations, the 
executed algorithm may be stuck at a local 
minimum, and some changes should be done 
on the searching strategy of the algorithm to 
prevent premature convergence. Adaptive 
mechanisms are proposed to do the change. 
When the best solution is the same for the 
lasted consecutive N  generations and 
N > N frozen , the crossover probability and 
mutation probability are changed according 
to the following two equations 
( )00 cfrozencc PN
NN
PP −−+= α  (13) 
( )00 mfrozenmm PN
NN
PP −−+= β  (14) 
where frozenN  is a given positive integer 
constant called frozen number, and 0cP  and 
0mP  are the initial crossover probability and 
the initial mutation probability, respectively. 
Besides, α  and β  are real constants. If 
frozenNN ≤  or the fittest solution changes 
such that N  is reset to zero, the crossover 
probability and mutation probability are 
equal to their initial values. 
In addition, the elitist strategy, by which 
the best solution of each generation is copied 
to the next generation, is adopted here to 
insure the solution quality. The flow chart of 
this novel hybrid algorithm is shown in Fig. 
2. 
 
4. Manufacturing processes 
The dimension of the nickel specimen is 
shown in Figure 3. The gauge section of the 
specimen is 1 mm long and 0.5 mm wide. To 
connect with the grips, two circular holes 
with 2 mm diameter are designed in the end 
section of the specimen. In addition, there are 
two supporting sections beside the gauge 
section to protect it from breaking during the 
transportation and handling before test. It is 
noted that only the gauge section and part of 
the supporting sections of the nickel 
specimen does not bond with the silicon 
wafer, and the other parts of the nickel 
structure are bonded with silicon wafer to 
strengthen them. 
The fabrication processes of the nickel 
specimen are shown in Figure 4. To clean the 
wafer, it was consecutively immersed into 
piranha (H2SO4：H2O2=3：1) at 100 C0  for ten 
minutes, DI water for 5 minutes, buffered 
oxide etchant (BOE) for 20 seconds, and DI 
water for 5 minutes. Then it was dehydrated 
at 120 C0  for 5 minutes. After cleaning the 
wafer, it was put into an oxidation furnace 
with 1000 C0  to grow 1 μm silicon dioxide 
on both sides. After that, the wafer was 
consecutively cleaned by DI water, acetone, 
and isopropyl alcohol (IPA) as well as 
dehydrated by nitrogen. Then, a thin layer of 
S1818 photoresist with 1-2 μm thickness was 
spin-coated on the front side of the wafer as 
shown in Figure 4(a). After baking the 
photoresist at 90 C0  for 3 minutes, the first 
mask used to pattern the photoresist was 
aligned with the wafer, and the photoresist 
was exposed with ultraviolet (UV) 
photolithography at near 365 nm wave length 
and developed by Shipley Microposit 
MF-319 developer as shown in Figure 4(b). 
A thin layer of S1818 photoresist was 
spin-coated on the back side of the wafer to 
protect the silicon dioxide layer. BOE was 
used to etch out the silicon dioxide layer and 
IPA was used to clean the photoresist. Then 
S1818 photoresist was spin-coated on the 
back side of the wafer again to have about 
1-2 μm thickness, and it was baked at 90 C0  
for 3 minutes as shown in Figure 4(c). Then 
the second mask used to transfer the pattern 
of the specimen was aligned, and exposure 
and post exposure baking were performed as 
shown in Figure 4(d). The nickel thin film 
was grown by electric plating with gold as 
the conducting layer as shown in Figure 4 (e). 
Acetone was used to clean S1818 photoresist. 
Before the final step of etching, the specimen 
was put into a teflon mode to protect the 
nickel structure from the attack of etchant. 
After that, tetramethyl ammonium hydroxide 
(TMAH) was heated to 90 C0  and used as an 
anisotropic wet etchant to etch out the silicon 
base from the backside as shown in Figure 
4(f). 
 
5. Experiment procedure 
The tensile testing of micro-specimens 
made of nickel thin film was conducted at a 
MTS Tytron 250 microforce testing system 
 8
protection from the silicon wafer because 
they may be separated under extension. 
Therefore, the grip displacement of MTS 
cannot represent the displacement of the 
gauge section of the specimen. As for the 
variation of the strains obtained by digital 
image correlation with single region, this 
may result from the variation of the method 
because the strains are the derivatives of the 
displacement and they are not as sensitive as 
the displacements during the searching 
process. In addition to the variation of digital 
image correlation, the variation between the 
two curves obtained from single region may 
be caused by the nonuniform deformation at 
different regions. The reason that double 
region has better strain results is because it 
just utilizes the searched displacements 
without using the searched displacement 
gradients. 
If the crosshead rate of loading the 
specimen is 0.5 μm/sec, the load-grip 
displacement curve is similar to that in 
Figure 5. The strains obtained by one single 
region, the double region, and MTS with 
respect to stresses are shown in Figure 8. 
Similarly, the strains obtained by the grip 
displacement of MTS are larger and incorrect. 
The strains obtained by single region and 
double region are very close, and the results 
of double region have little variation. Hence, 
one could say that the strains obtained from 
double region are better than those obtained 
from single region or MTS. As compared to 
the laser-based interferometric 
strain/displacement gage [17], in which two 
reflective gage markers needs to be deposited 
on a specimen surface for displacement 
measurement, digital image correlation with 
double region is nature and simple. 
Figure 9 shows the stress-strain curves of 
the three specimens under two loading rates 
obtained by digital image correlation with 
double region. The number 1 denotes the 
specimen with 1 μm/sec loading rate and 12 
μm thickness, and numbers 2-3 represent 
those with 0.5 μm/sec loading rate and 9 μm 
thickness. From this figure, the nickel 
specimens have nonlinear part in the 
stress-strain curve before fracture. The 
Young’s moduli of these specimens are 110 
GPa, 118 GPa, and 105 GPa, and their 
average is about 111 GPa. Their Maximum 
strengths are 601 MPa, 597 MPa, and 676 
MPa. As compared to the average reported 
modulus for Nickel thin film that is about 
150 GPa [18], the values obtained in this 
work are lower. The possible reason may be 
the composition and the quality of the plating 
bath along with the current and temperature. 
Also the locations of the double region are in 
area of non-uniform strain distribution, and 
this may result in the lower modulus. The 
high variation on maximum strength may be 
due to the quality variation from the electric 
plating process. 
 
6.2 A Plate with a Hole 
The loading-time curve of the first 
specimen is shown in Figure 10. There is a 
sliding between the grip and the specimen 
occurring at the early stage of the curve 
because no end tab is used. However, this 
will not affect the strain results obtained by 
DIC. In this figure the specimen breaks at 
360 sec, the strain gauge fails at 330 sec, and 
the image becomes unclear at 310 sec. Figure 
11 shows the position of the strain gauge 
around the hole region, and the strains of this 
point obtained by both the strain gauge and 
the digital image correlation are compared in 
Figure 12. The size of the subset is chosen to 
be 55x55. The figure illustrates that the 
strains obtained by both methods are in 
reasonable agreement, while there is still 
some small variation on the strain data from 
DIC. From this figure it can be said that the 
resolution of DIC on the obtained strain is 
around 0.03% and that the digital image 
correlation based on a hybrid genetic 
algorithm is applicable. 
As shown in Figure 11, nine points are 
chosen from a horizontal line on the net cross 
section, and the distances from these points 
to the right edge point of the hole are from 
0.33 mm to 10.73 mm with an interval of 1.3 
mm. The strains of these points in the 
loading direction are shown in Figure 13 for 
the loading time from 240 sec to 300 sec. 
The strain ratios of point A to point B are 
shown in Figure 14. From Figure 13 the 
strain value is raised when the point is close 
to the hole. Also as the loading time is 
increased, the increasing of strain is 
 10
7. Wattrisse B, Chrysochoose A, 
Muracciole JM, Nemoz-Gaillard M. 
Analysis of strain localization during 
tensile tests by digital image correlation. 
Exp Mech 2001;41:29-39. 
8. Lu H, Cary PD. Deformation 
measurements by digital image 
correlation: implementation of a 
second-order displacement gradient. 
Exp Mech 2000;40:393-400. 
9. Jin GC, Wu Z, Bao N, Yao X. Digital 
speckle correlation method with 
compensation technique for strain field 
measurements. Opt Laser Eng 
2003;39:457-64. 
10. Meng LB, Jin GC, Yao XF. Application 
of iteration and finite element 
smoothing technique for displacement 
and strain measurement of digital 
speckle correlation. Opt Laser Eng 
2007;45:57-63. 
11. Luo PF, Chao YJ, Sutton MA, Peters 
WH. Accurate measurement of 
three-dimensional deformations in 
deformable and rigid bodies using 
computer vision. Exp Mech 
1993;33:123-32. 
12. McNeill SR, Sutton MA, Miao Z, Ma J. 
Measurement of surface profile using 
digital image correlation. Exp Mech 
1997;37:13-20. 
13. Wang Y, Cuitino AM. Full-field 
measurements of heterogeneous 
deformation patterns on polymeric 
foams using digital image correlation. 
Int J Solids Struct. 2002;39:3777-96. 
14. Meng LB, Jin GC, Yao XF, Yeh HY. 
3D full-field deformation monitoring of 
fiber composite pressure vessel using 
3D digital speckle correlation method. 
Polym Test 2006;25:42-8. 
15. Han G, Sutton MA, Chao YJ. Study of 
stationary crack-tip deformation fields 
in thin sheets by computer vision. Exp 
Mech 1994;34:125-40. 
16. Hwang SF, He RS. Improving 
real-parameter genetic algorithm with 
simulated annealing for engineering 
problem. Adv Eng Soft 2006;37:406-18. 
17. Sharpe, Jr W. N., Yuan, B., Edwards, R. 
L. (1997) A new technique for 
measuring the mechanical properties of 
thin films. J. Microelestromech. Syst. 6, 
193-9. 
18. Gad-el-Hak, M. (2002) The MEMS 
Handbook, CRC Press. 
 
 
 
成果發表 
1. Shun-Fa Hwang and Wei-Jie Wu, “Deformation Measurement around a High 
Strain-Gradient Region by a Digital Image Correlation Method,” Strain (submitted). 
2. Shun-Fa Hwang and Wei-Jie Wu, 2009, “Deformation Measurement around a High 
Strain Rate Region by a Digital Image Correlation Based on a Hybrid Genetic 
Algorithm,” 18th International Conference on Computer Methods in Mechanics, Zielona 
Gora, Poland, May 18-21. 
3. Shun-Fa Hwang, Jhih-Te Horn, Hou-Jiun Wang, 2008, “Strain Measurement of Nickel 
Thin Film by a Digital Image Correlation Method,” Strain, Vol. 44, pp. 215-222. (SCI, 
EI) 
4. Shun-Fa Hwang, Jhih-Te Horn, Hou-Jiun Wang, 2008, “Strain Measurement of SU-8 
Photoresist by a Digital Image Correlation Method with a Hybrid Genetic Algorithm,” 
Optics and Lasers in Engineering, Vol. 46, No. 3, pp. 281-289. (SCI, EI) 
5. Shun-Fa Hwang, Yi-Jie Ho, and Wei-Jie Wu, 2008, “Deformation Measurement by a 
Digital Image Correlation with a Hybrid Genetic Algorithm,” SEM XI International 
Congress & Exposition on Experimental & Applied Mechanics, Orlando, Florida, USA, 
 12
 
 
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. Schematic of subsets before and after deformation. 
 
( )yx,  
( )00 , yx  
( )yx ′′,
u
v
dx  
dy  
Cz 
Cz
’’
Y 
X 
 14
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
Figure 4: Fabrication processes for nickel specimen 
 
 
(a) Oxidation and S1818 coating 
(b) Exposure and development 
(c) BOE etching and S1818 coating 
(d) Exposure, development, and baking 
(e) Electric plating 
(f) Lift off and backside etching 
 16
 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
0 0.05 0.1 0.15
Strain
Str
es
s(M
Pa
)
MTS
y[320]x[200]
y[280]x[200]
Double region
 
Figure 7: Stress-strain curves of the specimen with 12 μm thickness under 1 μm/sec loading 
rate 
 
 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
0 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.1 0.12
Strain
Str
es
s(M
Pa
)
MTS
y[350]x[200]
Double region
 
Figure 8: Stress-strain curves of the specimen with 9 μm thickness under 0.5 μm/sec loading 
rate 
 18
 
 
Figure 11: Measurement points near the hole and the point of strain gauge 
 
 
Figure 12: Strain comparisons for the point of strain gauge for the first specimen 
 
 20
 
 
Figure 15: Strains for the points around the hole for the first specimen 
 
 
Figure 16: Strains for the measurement points near the hole for the second specimen 
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助團隊參與國際學術學會會議報告        
98 年 8 月 27 日 
 
報告人姓名 
 
黃順發 
 
 
服務機
構 
 
雲林科技大學
機械工程系 
 
職稱 
 
教授 
 
會議正式名稱 
中文：第十八屆計算方法在力學之應用國際研討會 
英文：18th International Conference on Computer Methods in 
Mechanics (CMM 2009) 
會 議 時 間       自98年5月18 日至98年 5
月 21 日 
地點（國、州、城市）
 
Zielona Gora, 
Poland 
 
 
 3
Deformation measurement around a high strain rate region by a 
digital image correlation based on a hybrid genetic algorithm 
 
Shun-Fa Hwang* and Wei-Jie Wu 
Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Yunlin University of Science and Technology 
123 University Road, Sec. 3, Douliu, Yunlin 64002, Taiwan 
*e-mail: hwangsf@ yuntech.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract 
 
Digital image correlation (DIC) could provide deformation information of a specimen by processing two digital images that are 
captured before and after the deformation. Currently in the literature the strain information is always obtained by differentiating the 
displacement data that is predicted by DIC. In this work, to obtain both the strain and displacement data simultaneously, a hybrid 
genetic algorithm, in which a simulated annealing mutation process and adaptive mechanisms are added to a real-parameter genetic 
algorithm, is proposed to search the deformed images. To judge the quality of the obtained strain data by this way, an uniaxial tensile 
test is conducted on an aluminium specimen with strain gauge. Also the method is applied to obtain the strain in a high strain rate 
region around a hole, and the result indicates that the strain in a high strain rate region could be reasonably determined by the present 
method. 
Keywords: deformation measurement, strain, digital image correlation, hybrid genetic algorithm 
1. Introduction 
Digital image correlation (DIC) is a whole-field and non-contact deformation measuring method. It could provide deformation 
information of a specimen by processing two digital images that are captured before and after the deformation. Upon the assumption 
of infinitesimal deformation theory, the displacements and strains of a selected subset could be inferred from the correlating of the 
digitized intensity pattern of the subset before deformation with that after deformation. This method has been proved by rigid body 
motion, uniaxial strain testing, and a cantilever beam with an end load. Recently, Newton-Raphson method was applied to search the 
deformation components because it’s fast [1-2]. However, one drawback of this method is that it is easy to find a local minimum and 
not the true minimum. To avoid this drawback, it is very interesting to use genetic algorithm to replace the Newton-Raphson 
searching method. Genetic algorithm is different from most conventional calculus-based search algorithms because of no limitation 
on the search space and parallel computation of a population of solutions. The purpose of this work is to apply a hybrid genetic 
algorithm to the DIC. An uniform uniaxial tensile test is used to verify the method, and strain in a high strain rate region around a 
hole is captured by the method. 
2. Digital image correlation 
Under the assumption that there is a one-to-one correspondence on the deformation of the intensity pattern and the object surface, 
one could deduce the deformation information from the intensity pattern of two images taken before and after a deformation 
increment. To remain within the limit of linear approximation of the deformation, a square region of pixels called subset Cz should 
be small enough. If a reference point and a nearby point are selected from a subset chosen from the image taken before deformation, 
the positions ( )'' , yx  of the nearby point after the deformation increment could be described as 
dy
y
udx
x
uuxx ∂
∂+∂
∂+=−' , dy
y
vdx
x
vvyy ∂
∂+∂
∂+=−'  (1) 
where ( )yx,  are the positions of the reference point before the deformation, ( )vu,  are the displacements of the reference point, 
and ( )dydx,  are the position differences of the reference point and the nearby point before deformation. The components of the 
first-order displacement gradient are denoted as xu ∂∂ , yu ∂∂ , xv ∂∂ , and yv ∂∂ . Since only a two-dimensional deformation is 
considered, one needs two displacement components and four displacement gradient components to describe the position of a nearby 
point after deformation. 
Generally, the positions of the reference point and the nearby point after deformation are not located at pixel points of the digital 
image taken after deformation, and there are no grey level values for these points. Hence, interpolation is necessary to retrieve their 
grey level values such that the intensity pattern of the subset could be obtained. In this work, a bilinear interpolation is used. 
Under the assumption and limit described above, one could find a subset in the deformed image that is correspondent to the 
undeformed subset. To represent the correlation of these two subsets, a cross-correlation coefficient or a least squares correlation 
coefficient is commonly used. For simplicity, this least squares correlation coefficient Φ  is utilized in this work and defined as 
