 II
 
目錄 
 
報告內容 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 1 
摘要 ------------------------------------------------------------- 1 
一、前言及文獻探討  ------------------------------------------------------------- 3 
二、研究方法  ------------------------------------------------------------- 5 
三、結果與討論  ------------------------------------------------------------- 8 
四、研究結論  ------------------------------------------------------------- 14 
參考文獻 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 14 
計畫成果自評 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 21 
    
 
 
 
 2 
 
英文摘要 — A current challenge in the synthetic biomaterials is to design an effective nonfouling 
interface in human whole blood. In this work, a novel blood-inert interface via ion-pair anchoring of 
grafted zwitterionic copolymer brushes was developed and investigated as an antithrombogenic 
surface with controllable blood compatibility. New well-defined diblock copolymers of 
poly(11-mercaptoundecyl sulfonic acid)-block-poly(sulfobetaine methacrylate) (PSA-b-PSBMA) were 
synthesized using atom transfer radical polymerization and varying PSA or PSBMA lengths. Ion-pair 
anchoring tests of PSA-b-PSBMA were performed on a gold surface grafted with polycation brushes 
of poly(11-mercapto-N,N,N- trimethylammonium chloride) under a controlled range of copolymer 
concentrations. Protein adsorption from single protein solutions, 100% blood serum, and 100% blood 
plasma onto the anchored PSA-b-PSBMA copolymer interfaces was evaluated using a surface plasmon 
resonance sensor. High plasma protein resistance of ion-pair anchoring zwitterionic copolymer 
surfaces can be performed to a comparable nonfouling level to that of a surface chemically grafted 
with zwitterionic PSBMA brushes. Blood-platelet adhesion measurements on copolymer surfaces from 
recalcified platelet rich plasma solution show that the platelet activation depends on the ionic and 
zwitterionic molar mass ratios of anchoring PSA-b-PSBMA. Interestingly, the increase of both ionic 
SA units and zwitterionic SBMA units in the copolymers tends to effectively reduce the activation of 
platelets, even to a level of non-platelet adhesion. These copolymer brushes are further challenged by 
testing in contact with human whole blood, demonstrating strong resistance of blood-cell adhesion on 
the observed surfaces containing high zwitterionic SBMA units in the copolymers, as well as its high 
resistance to plasma-protein adsorption and blood-platelet activation. This unique blood-inert 
capability makes the antithrombogenic formula of ionic-zwitteironic block copolymer for general 
charged surface anchoring to be potentially appropriate for the molecular design of blood-inert 
biomaterials.  
Keywords: Blood-inert, Ion-pair, Zwitterionic, Nonfouling, Protein resistance 
 4 
 
hydration in surface resistance to plasma protein 
adsorption. In recent years, zwitterionic 
poly(sulfobetaine methacrylate) (PSBMA) has 
become the most widely studied zwitterionic 
betaines due to its ease in synthetic preparation. 
It was reported that the blood-inert nature of 
zwitterionic PSBMA polymers is attributed to 
their strong hydration capabilities and 
conformational structures.  
A new generation of blood-inert 
biomaterials can be designed with a combination 
of the excellent mechanical properties of bulk 
materials and the good nonfouling characteristics 
of zwitterionic surface. Surface grafting is 
considered a promising approach to incorporate 
zwitterionic brushes onto a wide range of 
common biomaterials for improved blood 
compatibility. Two major strategies have been 
shown to prepare zwitterionic brushes, including 
grafting from and grafting to. Most of the 
zwitterionic brushes produced by the grafting 
from approach are prepared using 
surface-initiated controlled/living radical 
polymerization techniques, allowing accurate 
control over brush thickness, composition, and 
architecture. However, it faces a general 
difficulty of nonfouling surface treatment in 
complex geometric shapes and the large-scale 
process. Thus, the grafting to approach involving 
the attachment of zwitterionic polymers via 
either chemisorption or physisorption might be a 
promising route for preparing nonfouling 
biomaterials or coatings in specific devices or 
large-scale requirements. But it suffers a main 
limitation in the control of thick and very dense 
zwitterionic brushes with a surface packing level 
to resist nonspecific protein adsorption. Recently, 
our study has reported a successful grafting to 
approach of physically adsorbed diblock 
copolymers containing PSBMA via hydrophobic 
immobilization to produce a superlow biofouling 
surface with zwitterionic brushes. It is the first 
work to demonstrate zwitterionic copolymers on 
a hydrophobic surface are highly resistant of 
protein adsorption from a single protein solution 
to a level below 5 ng/cm2 as measured by surface 
plasmon resonance (SPR) if the surface SBMA 
densities are well controlled. However, the 
physically hydrophobic adsorbed zwitterionic 
brushes are usually easily washed away from 
anchoring surfaces during tough operation or in 
physiologic medium, such as those surfaces in 
contact with undiluted blood plasma or human 
whole blood.  
A current challenge in the zwitterionic 
biomaterial surface with high blood 
compatibility is to design effective 
antithrombogenic formula and stable grafting 
strategy. In this work, a new charge-hybrid 
grafting to approach of ion-pair anchoring 
zwitterionic brushes via physically electrostatic 
immobilization on charged biomaterial surfaces 
is proposed. Herein, we report a novel formula of 
ionic-zwitterionic copolymer via atom transfer 
radical polymerization (ATRP) with 
well-controlled charged block chain length for 
surface anchoring. In regarding of general case 
study, nine zwitterionic copolymers containing 
polyanion blocks of poly(11-mercaptoundecyl 
sulfonic acid)-block-poly(sulfobetaine 
methacrylate) (PSA-b-PSBMA) for ion-pair 
anchoring to cationic surfaces were prepared and 
investigated as a model surface with optimized 
blood compatibility. The zwitterionic anchoring 
surfaces were carefully evaluated by 
plasma-protein adsorption, blood-platelet 
adhesion and activation, and blood-cell 
attachment. This study not only demonstrates a 
 6 
 
of DI water using three different molar ratios of 
[SA]/[PSBMA-Br]/[CuBr]/[bpy] = 10:1:1:2, 
20:1:1:2 and 40:1:1:2, respectively, under 
nitrogen at 60 C. After 48 h, the resulting 
PSA-b-PSBMA diblock copolymer was 
precipitated into THF, then redissolved in water, 
and passed through an aluminum oxide column 
to remove the residue catalysts. The diblock 
copolymer was dried by freeze-drying for 24 h to 
yield a white powder. In Table 1, aqueous GPC 
analysis indicated nine PSA-b-PSBMA diblock 
copolymers with the controlled polydispersities 
(i.e., Mw/Mn = 1.20-1.40). The molecular weights 
of the prepared PSBMA polymers and 
PSA-b-PSBMA copolymers were determined by 
aqueous gel-permeation chromatography (GPC), 
using two Viscogel columns, a G4000 PWXL 
and a G6000 PWXL (the range of molecular 
weight was from 2 kDa to 8000 kDa) connected 
to a model Viscotec refractive-index detector at a 
flow rate of 1.0 mL/min and a column 
temperature of 23 oC. The eluent was an aqueous 
solution composed of 0.1 M NaNO3 at pH 7.4. 
Poly(ethylene oxide) (PEO) standards from 
Polymer Standard Service, Inc. (Warwick, USA) 
were used for calibration. 
Preparation of self-assembled monolayers on 
gold surfaces  
In this study, two self-assembled 
monolayers (SAMs) were formed on the 
substrates. (1) methyl-terminated (CH3), and (2) 
initiator -mercaptoundecyl bromoisobutyrate 
(Br) SAMs. BK-7 glass chips (SCHOTT Taiwan 
Ltd.) and P(100) Si wafers (Wafer Works 
Corporation Co., Inc.) were first coated with an 
adhesion-promoting chromium layer (thickness 2 
nm) and a surface plasmon active gold layer (48 
nm) by electron beam evaporation under vacuum. 
Before SAM preparation, the gold-coated 
substrate was cleaned by washing with pure 
ethanol and distilled water in sequence, dried 
with N2, then left in an UV light cleaner for 20 
min at the source power of 110 W, followed by 
rinsing with distilled water and ethanol, and 
finally dried by N2. For preparation of 
CH3-SAMs, the cleaned chip was soaked in a 2 
mM ethanol solution of 1-undecanethiol thiols 
for 24 h to form SAMs on the gold surface, and 
the chip was rinsed in sequence with ethanol and 
water, and then dried in a stream of N2. For the 
preparation of an initiator SAM on a gold surface, 
the cleaned chip was soaked in a 2 mM ethanol 
solution of -mercaptoundecyl bromoisobutyrate 
for 24 h to form Br-SAMs on the gold surface, 
and the chip was rinsed with pure ethanol 
followed by THF and then dried in a stream of 
N2. 
Preparation of PSBMA and PTMA 
homopolymer brushes  
Two well-packed homopolymer brushes of 
poly(sulfobetaine methacrylate) (PSBMA) and 
poly(11-mercapto-N,N,N-trimethylammonium 
chloride) (PTMA) on SPR glass chips and Si 
wafers were achieved via the surface-initiated 
ATRP method, which were prepared the 
following method reported previously.20, 24, 25 
These homopolymer brushes were polymerized 
on the gold substrates with immobilized 
initiators of Br-SAMs based on our previous 
reports. The reaction solution of CuBr and BPY 
were first placed in a sealed glass reactor in a dry 
box under nitrogen atmosphere. A 400 mM of 
degassed solution (pure water and methanol in a 
1:3 volume ratio, 48hr) with monomers was 
transferred to the reactor and the gold surface 
with immobilized initiators was then placed in 
 8 
 
adsorbed protein. The calibration follows the 
standard calculation for the same custom-built 
SPR system resulting a 1 nm wavelength shift in 
the SPR response equivalent to about 15 ng/cm2 
of adsorbed proteins. 3, 26 
Blood-platelet adhesion and activation  
The gold-coated Si wafers with SAMs 
(CH3-SAMs), polymer brushes (polyTMA, and 
polySBMA), and copolymer brushes 
(PSA-b-PSBMA) of 1 cm2 surface area were 
placed in individual wells of a 24-well tissue 
culture plate and each well was equilibrated with 
1000 L of PBS for 2 hr at 37oC. Platelet rich 
plasma (PRP) containing about 1105 blood 
cells/mL was prepared by centrifugation of the 
blood at 20 Hz (1200 rpm) for 10 min. The 
platelet concentration was determined by a 
microscopy (NIKON TS 100F). A 200 L of the 
PRP recalcified by addition of calcium (1 M 
CaCl2, 5 L) was placed on the substrate surface 
in each well of the tissue culture plate and 
incubated for 120 min at 37oC. After the wafers 
were rinsed twice with 1000 mL of PBS, they 
were immersed into 2.5% glutaraldehyde of PBS 
for 48 hr at 4oC to fix the activated platelets and 
other adhered blood celles, then rinsed three 
times with 1000 mL of PBS and gradient-dried 
with ethanol in 75% v/v PBS, 50% v/v PBS, 
25% v/v PBS, 5% v/v PBS, and 0% v/v PBS for 
20 min in each step and dried in air. Finally, the 
samples were sputter-coated with gold prior to 
observation under JEOL JSM-5410 SEM 
operating at 7 keV. The number of adhering 
platelets on the hydrogels was counted from 
scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images at a 
5000 magnification from five different places on 
the same substrate. The process was repeated 
using three independent samples (n=15 in total). 
Whole blood-cell attachment  
The gold-coated glass chips with SAMs 
(CH3-SAMs), polymer brushes (polyTMA, and 
polySBMA), and copolymer brushes 
(PSA-b-PSBMA) of 1 cm2 surface area were 
placed in individual wells of a 24-well tissue 
culture plate and each well was equilibrated with 
1000 L of PBS for 24 h at 37 oC. Fresh whole 
blood was obtained from five healthy human 
volunteers in 250 mL with 35 mL citrate 
phosphate dextrose adenine-1 (CPDA-1) and 
then was all mixed together. A 1000 L of the 
whole blood was placed on the substrate surface 
in each well of the tissue culture plate and 
incubated for 2 h at 37 oC. After the chips were 
rinsed twice with 1000 mL of PBS, they were 
immersed into 4.0% formaldehyde of PBS in 300 
L for 15 min at 4 oC to fix the adhered blood 
cells, then rinsed three times with 1000 L of 
PBS. Blood-cell attaching to the sample surfaces 
were stained with 3 μL of CD3-FITC, 
CD14-FTIC, and CD45-FITC in 270 L of PBS 
with 2.5% glutaraldehyde at 4 oC for 15 min. 
After washing with PBS three times, the 
morphology of adhered blood cells on the 
substrates in PBS was observed from confocal 
laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) images at a 
200 magnification from five different places on 
the same chip. During observation, the images 
were taken at λex = 488 nm / λem = 520 nm for 
detection of the FITC dye. This analysis was 
performed using a NIKON CLSM A1R 
instrument.   
 
三、結果與討論    
Polymerization of ionic-zwitterionic block 
copolymer  
To study the effects of the zwitterionic 
 10 
 
observation using SPR sensor to directly provide 
a molecular scale insight into the correlation of 
the zwitterionic shielding coverage from 
different surface-anchored PSA-b-PSBMA 
copolymers with the adsorption of single protein 
or plasma proteins in various controlled media. 
PSA-b-PSBMA diblock copolymers were first 
physically adsorbed onto the SPR sensor 
surfaces grafted by cationic PTMA brushes via 
the ionic-pair self-assembly of PSA-PTMA 
electrostatic interactions, followed by the in situ 
evaluation of plasma protein adsorption on the 
surfaces with surface-anchored PSA-b-PSBMA 
copolymers. The adsorbed amounts of both 
copolymers and proteins were measured and 
compared by SPR in Fig. 1. For the stage of 
self-assembled PSA-b-PSBMA surface 
formation, the copolymer anchoring amount in 
Fig. 1(a) is defined as the SPR wavelength 
difference between the two baselines established 
before and after copolymer adsorption. It can be 
seen from SPR sensorgram that the quick 
increase in wavelength after addition of 
copolymer suggests the fast polymer adsorption 
onto the bare PTMA brushes, which depends on 
the PSA-b-PSBMA concentration in PBS 
(CPSA-b-PSBMA). After that, since the electrostatic 
interaction sites on the PTMA brushes were 
mostly occupied, the adsorbed polymers 
primarily underwent structural reorganization 
and reversible attachments on the surface, thus 
leading to the slow kinetics of polymer 
adsorption. After 35 min polymer injection, the 
PBS was used to flush away weekly bound 
polymers on the surface for 50 min, reaching a 
steady plateau. To study the effects of the surface 
coverage of physically anchored copolymers and 
the chain length of the surface-bound PSBMA 
blocks on protein resistant characteristics, nine 
different PSA-b-PSBMA diblock copolymers 
were used in this study. Physical characteristics 
of these nine PSA-b-PSBMA diblock 
copolymers are summarized in Table 1. It is 
expected that these well defined diblock 
copolymers have different surface packing and 
then result in different protein adsorption 
behavior. For the subsequent stage of protein 
adsorption on PSA-b-PSBMA anchored surface, 
the protein adsorption amount in Fig. 1(b) is 
defined as the SPR wavelength difference 
between the two baselines established before and 
after protein adsorption.  
The concentration of copolymer solution, 
CPSA-b-PSBMA, was varied from 0.01 to 1 mg/mL 
to examine the PSA-b-PSBMA packing on the 
surface and subsequent protein adsorption. The 
increase of CPSA-b-PSBMA resulted in the increased 
anchoring amount of PSA-b-PSBMA onto 
PTMA surfaces and the reduced adsorption 
amount of fibrinogen from single protein 
solution. Interestingly, the saturated anchoring 
amount of copolymers is highly dependent on 
the chain length of zwitterionic PSBMA block 
but independent on that of negatively charged 
PSA block, indicating the strong electrostatic 
interaction between PSA block and PTMA brush 
for each ion-pair anchoring sites. Increasing the 
negative zeta potential of the PSA-b-PSBMA 
copolymers decreased the CPSA-b-PSBMA used in 
the formation of saturated anchoring amount to 
obtain the fully coverage of PSA-b-PSBMA 
grafting onto the surface. For the case of 
PSA40-b-PSBMA40 anchored surface, the 
saturated anchoring amount of the copolymers 
can be formed in a wide range of CPSA-b-PSBMA 
controlled between 0.01 and 1 mg/mL and result 
in zero adsorption of fibrinogen from single 
protein solution. The result indicates that the 
 12 
 
SPR signal is attributed mainly to the higher 
molar mass of plasma proteins than other small 
biomolecules in serum or plasma solution. It is 
known that CH3-SAMs presenting hydrophobic 
methyl groups usually induce large amount of 
non-specific protein adsorption, which was also 
observed in Fig. 2. The protein adsorption on 
hydrophobic surface of CH3-SAMs from 
20-100% human plasma is higher than that from 
20-100% human serum, indicating the 
components of non-specific protein adsorption 
containing the certain amounts of 
clotting-induced proteins, such as fibrinogen. As 
indicated by SPR measurement, the PSBMA 
surfaces were almost completely resistant to the 
adsorption of non-specific proteins in both 20% 
human serum and 20% human plasma. However, 
it was observed that non-specific protein 
adsorption of <5 ng/cm2 on the PSBMA surfaces 
from 50-100% human serum and 50-100% 
human plasma, which exhibit as an ultra-low 
fouling surface. Before self-assembled anchoring 
of PSA-b-PSBMA copolymers, the adsorption of 
serum and plasma proteins onto positively 
charged PTMA surfaces is higher than that onto 
hydrophobic CH3-SAMs, indicating that 
electrostatic interaction enhances the protein 
adsorption from blood serum or plasma solution. 
It was found that the relative amount of protein 
adsorption onto each sample surfaces is 
increased with the protein concentration 
controlled from 20% to 100% of blood serum or 
plasma solution. In Fig. 2, it can be seen that the 
PSA40-b-PSBMA40 anchored surfaces reduced 
the serum and plasma protein adsorption to a 
level comparable with the adsorption on the 
surfaces grafted with PSBMA brushes. However, 
the adsorption of serum proteins onto the surface 
anchored with PSA20-b-PSBMA40 is much higher 
than that with PSA40-b-PSBMA40. With the 
decrease of chain length of negatively charged 
PSA block, a certain amount of the copolymers 
are displaced from the surface by the serum 
proteins. Importantly, a comparable adsorption 
amount of serum and plasma proteins on 
PSA-b-PSBMA anchored surfaces indicates 
stable resistance of clotting-induced proteins 
onto the surfaces from 20-100 % blood plasma, 
which can be further estimated by the 
blood-platelet adhesion test.  
Previous studies showed that 
nonspecifically adsorbed plasma proteins interact 
in a series of reactions leading to plasma clotting. 
Among plasma proteins, fibrinogen plays a 
leading role in mediating surface-induced 
adhesion and activation of platelets as surfaces 
contact human blood plasma under static 
conditions. Fig. 3 shows SEM photographs of 
platelets that adhered and activated to the 
surfaces by contact of the prepared substrates 
with platelet-rich plasma solution for 60 min at 
37 oC in vitro. The SEM results show that the no 
platelet adherance was observed on PSBMA 
brushes as compared with the hydrophobic 
surface (CH3-SAMs) and positively charged 
surface (PTMA brushes). It is clearly observed 
that the platelets have spread on CH3-SAMs and 
PTMA brushes, which indicates the activation of 
the adhered platelets. For the surfaces anchored 
copolymers of PSA-b-PSBMA with the ratio of 
fPSBMA/PSA>1, we observed significant decreases 
in the adhesion and activation of platelets on 
copolymer anchored surfaces while the chain 
length of the zwitterionic PSBMA block is 
increased as the cases shown in the sequent 
images of Fig. 3(d), 3(g), 3(j), and 3(k). The 
results indicate the importance of zwitterionic 
shielding coverage from the controlled chain 
 14 
 
blood serum or plasma, leading to high 
resistance in the following interlinked process of 
platelet adhesion and blood-cell attachment. 
Importantly, the surface anchored with 
PSA40-b-PSBMA40 in Fig. 3(l) and Fig. 4(l) 
showed that perfect resistance of blood-cell 
attachment as well as blood-platelet adhesion 
was observed. The results strongly support an 
effective nonfouling interface in human whole 
blood can be developed by ion-pair anchoring of 
ionic-zwitterionic copolymers, PSA-b-PSBMA, 
while the macromolecular size and the ratio of 
fPSBMA/PSA are reasonably controlled.  Thus, the 
general concept for preparing antithrombogenic 
interfaces from charged biomaterials could be 
performed in the ease of ion-pair anchored 
surface zwitterionization, but it should concern 
the issue of surface anchoring coverage and 
structures of zwitterionic nonfouling nature in 
human whole blood. 
 
四、研究結論  
Blood compatible ionic-zwitterionic block 
copolymer, PSA-b-PSBMA, was developed. 
This new formula of well-defined diblock 
copolymer gives strong anchoring on a charged 
surface via the ion-pair providing groups of ionic 
block and high blood-inert surface via the 
sulfobetaine groups of zwitterionic block. 
Surface anchored with PSA-b-PSBMA showed a 
great potential in the simplified process of 
surface zwitterionization and provided a 
significant insights in the control of blood-inert 
charateristics for the desired blood compatibility. 
Under optimized conditions, PSA-b-PSBMA 
anchored surface with a balanced 
macromolecular structure of PSA block and 
PSBMA block can highly resist non-specific 
protein adsorption (~ 0 ng/cm2 in single 
fibrinogen solution, and < 10 ng/cm2 in 100% 
human blood serum and plasma). The strategy of 
ion-pair anchoring process enables the fast, 
effective, and stable immobilization of 
PSA-b-PSBMA directly onto the ionic surface. 
The resulting surface anchored with this 
zwitterionic copolymer brushes maintained 
excellent blood-inert properties (‘zero’ 
blood-platelet adhesion and blood-cell 
attachment) as the interfaces in contact with 
100% platelet-rich plasma and 100% human 
whole blood. This strategy can be extended to 
general charged surfaces of biomaterials with 
excellent blood compatibility used in human 
blood.  
 
參考文獻 
 
1. Y. Chang, Y.J. Shih, C.Y. Ko, J.F. Jhong, 
Y.L. Liu, T.C. Wei (2011) 
“Hemocompatibility of poly(vinylidene 
fluoride) membrane grafted with 
network-like and brush-like antifouling 
layer controlled via plasma-induced surface 
PEGylation”, Langmuir, 26, 5445-5455.  
2. Y. Chang, W.J. Chang, Y.J. Shih, T.C. Wei 
(2011) “Zwitterionic sulfobetaine-grafted 
poly(vinylidene fluoride) membrane with 
improved blood compatibility via 
atmospheric plasma-induced surface 
copolymerization”, ACS Appl. Mater. 
Interfaces, 3, 1228-1237.  
3. Y. J. Shih, Y. Chang (2010) “Tunable blood 
compatibility of polysulfobetaine from 
controllable molecular-weight dependence 
 16
 
 
Scheme 1.  
 
 
 18
 
Figure 2  
 
 20
 
Figure 4  
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/04/18
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 研究固液界面刷狀分子鏈之雙性電荷排列結構對於蛋白質吸附行為的影響並
探討其於生醫薄膜之應用
計畫主持人: 張雍
計畫編號: 99-2628-E-033-001- 學門領域: 生化及生醫工程 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 抗生物分子表面處理試劑
(英文) SURFACE ANTI-BIOMOLECULE AGENT
成果歸屬機構
中原大學 發明人
(創作人)
張雍
技術說明
(中文) 本發明係關於一種用於處理一人工控制帶電或自然帶電基板表面的抗生物分子表
面處理試劑。 
本發明一實施例提供一種抗生物分子表面處理試劑，用於處理一人工控制帶電或
自然帶電的基板表面，該抗生物分子表面處理試劑包含一抗生物分子嵌段共聚物，
該抗生物分子嵌段共聚物包含：一錨定嵌段，包含至少一帶有一第一電性的次嵌
段，用於結合該基板表面上帶有與該第一電性相反的一第二電性的部位；以及一
雙離子性嵌段，向外延伸，以減少生物分子附著於該基板表面。 
本發明另一實施例提供一種抗生物分子表面處理試劑，用於處理一人工控制帶電
或自然帶電的基板表面，該抗生物分子表面處理試劑包含一抗生物分子無規則共
聚物，該抗生物分子無規則共聚物包含：一錨定區域，包含至少一帶有一第一電
性的次區域，用於結合該基板表面上帶有與該第一電性相反的一第二電性的部位；
以及一雙離子性區域，向外延伸，以減少生物分子附著於該基板表面。 
本發明另一實施例提供一種抗生物分子表面處理試劑，用於處理一人工控制帶電
或自然帶電的基板表面，該抗生物分子表面處理試劑包含一抗生物分子共聚物，
該抗生物分子共聚物包含：一錨定主鏈，包含至少一帶有一第一電性的次嵌段或
次區域，用於結合該基板表面上帶有與該第一電性相反的一第二電性的部位；以
及至少一雙離子性懸掛基團或至少一雙離子性支鏈，向外延伸，以減少生物分子
附著於該基板表面。
(英文) The present invention relates to surface anti-biomolecule agents for an artificially or 
naturally charged substrate. One embodiment provides a surface anti-biomolecule agent 
for an artificially or naturally charged substrate, comprising a biomolecule resistance 
block copolymer, with a zwitterionic block and an anchoring block with at least a sub-
block having a first electricity, wherein the sub-block having the first electricity binds to 
sites, on the charged surfaces, having a second electricity opposite to the first electricity, 
and the zwitterionic block extends outwardly to reduce the attachment of biomolecules to 
the charged substrate. 
產業別
紡織、成衣、服飾品及紡織製品製造業；化學業；醫療器材製造業；顧問服務業；研究
發展服務業
技術/產品應用範圍
技術：本發明提供一種用於一人工控制帶電或自然帶電基板表面的抗生物分子表面處理
試劑，其包含一共聚物具有錨定嵌段或錨定區域(anchoring blocks or domains)利用靜
電吸引力結合該基板表面，以及雙離子性嵌段或雙離子性區域(zwitterionic blocks or 
domains)向外延伸，以減少生物分子附著於該基板表面。 
產品應用範圍：可用於設計各種抗生物分子沾黏之產品，包含生物相容性醫材，抗菌器
材，抗組塞濾膜等。
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
本專利是屬於原始材料結構發明專利，技轉可行性高，並有排除他人製造之權利。國內
產業預期效益在製造業方面包含紡織、成衣、服飾品及紡織製品製造業，化學業，醫療
器材製造業 ；在服務業方面包含技術顧問服務業與研究發展服務業，可帶動國內生物相
容性醫材，抗菌器材，抗組塞濾膜之技術發展，攻佔全世界每年百億美金市場。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100%  
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
透過此研究計畫，成功研發出高血液相容性材料之新製備方法，未來將有很大
機會為國家建立血液相關處理技術之核心材料設計技術，提升國際競爭力 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
