 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
以矽穿孔接合式三維晶片及其封裝結構之散熱效能與長時可靠度分析 
計畫編號：NSC97－2221－E－007－007－MY3 
執行期限： 97/08/01 – 100/07/31 
計畫參與人員：江國寧 
E-mail: knchiang@pme.nthu.edu.tw 
 
 
中文摘要 
 
本研究利用虛擬裂縫閉合法，搭配有限元素法進行利用矽穿孔三維晶片封裝結構中，銅凸塊間的
脫層可靠度力學分析。脫層前緣的能量釋放率被定義為脫層成長的條件，用於探討銅凸塊間脫層的力
學行為。網格密度與脫層尺寸為本研究的研究對象，初步結果顯示網格密度對脫層前緣的能量釋放率
響不顯著，但脫層尺寸將顯著影響該數值。在完成介面脫層探討之後，本研究引進製程模擬分析以討
論ABF膠材厚度對熱機械行為之影響，亦搭配杜曼-格林干涉儀進行晶片面外位移量測，以確保製成模
擬分析之正確性。由利用實驗結果驗證後之模擬分析進行ABF膠材結構厚度變數分析，結果顯示該結
構厚度對結構力學行為影響不顯著。而在三維封裝體分析中，ABF膠材之熱膨脹會導致銅導孔周圍發
生應力集中效應。此外，前述兩結構之熱膨脹亦會進一步對矽晶片之可靠度造成影響。本研究亦針對
銅導孔之直徑大小進行變數分析，結果顯示直徑較大之結構會降低銅材料之應力集中現象，然而卻會
對矽晶片造成較高之應力集中結果。在分析完低製成穩定度所造成的可靠度問題之後，本研究採用
Engelmaier模型進行銅導線之長時間可靠度壽命預估，預估壽命結果與熱循環實驗之特徵壽命非常接
近。此外，在封裝基板選擇方面，可使用較軟的BT基板來保護銅導線以增加長時間可靠度壽命。 
 
 
關鍵字：虛擬裂縫閉合法、三維晶片封裝、矽穿孔、銅凸塊、製成模擬、杜曼-格林干涉儀、可靠度壽 
命預估、Engelmaier模型 
 
1. Abstracts 
In this project, through a combination of computational mechanics and fracture mechanics, the modified 
 4
production. Thus, it is important to analyze the reliability of TSV by finite element (FE) models and 
experiments.  
Therefore, in this research, through a combination of computational mechanics and fracture mechanics, 
the modified virtual crack closure technique (MVCCT) based on the finite element method (FEM) will be 
applied to investigate the delamination behavior between stacking copper bumps in 3D chip stacking 
packages. The simulation will be validated by the existing experimental results, and the mesh density and 
geometry of the delamination effects will also be investigated. Subsequently, the process modeling technique 
is adopted to analysis the thermal-mechanical behavior of the 3D chip stacking package. This methodology of 
the technique is validated by the designed experiment for metal-bond type chip displacement measurement. 
Twyman-Green (T/G) interferometry is employed to observe the out-of-plane displacement of the fabricated 
chip. In addition, the geometry of valid finite element model is altered to optimize the chip structure by 
reducing the stress due to CTE mismatch. At lastly, Attention is focused on a discussion of the reliability 
performance of TSV packaging structures under thermal cycling loading condition. For life predictions, the 
Engelmaier model is selected, and the simulation results are compared with experimental data. The effects of 
the substrate material and underfill are also determined. 
 
3. Investigation of Delamination Behavior 
3.1 Description of Copper Bumps Delamination 
The 3D chip stacking package with TSV connections is shown in Fig. 1. The structure is developed by 
ITRI. The electrical interconnects between each stacking dies are connected by electroplated copper bumps 
and lead-free solder layer as shown in Fig. 2. In the above package, a dimple defect occurs at the copper bump 
after the copper electroplating process due to the TSV hole, which also results into a vacancy between two 
connected copper bumps and the solder layers. However, the electrical test and the thermal cycling test 
indicate that the defect will not affect the electrical performance and reliability of the proposed 3D package 
[3]. 
In finite element analysis, the element mesh is sometimes too coarse to produce detailed results in a 
specific region of interest, such as stress concentration. Based on St. Venant's principle, stress concentration 
effects are localized around the concentration. Therefore, if the boundaries of the submodel are far enough 
from the stress concentration, reasonably accurate results can be calculated in the submodel. In this research, 
the specified boundary displacement method, which is also known as the cut-boundary displacement method 
or the submodeling method, is applied to simplify the numerical model. The specified boundary is the 
boundary of the local model which represents a cut through the global model. The displacements calculated 
on the cut boundary of the global model are specified as the boundary conditions for the local model. 
 
3.2 Modified Virtual Crack Closure Technique 
Within FEM, several methods for predicting the crack driving force are developed such as J-integral [14-15], 
modified virtual crack closure techniques (MVCCT) [16-17], and area release energy (ARE) [18]. A relatively 
easy algorithm of application capability to calculate the energy release rate (G value) for all three fracture 
modes and its accuracy make MVCCT attractive in numerical fracture mechanics. A typical MVCCT formula 
for eight-noded three-dimensional solid elements is given as [17] 
 6
analysis. The selections of mesh size include variations in radius (R), tangential (θ), and thickness (Z) 
directions. The geometry of the baseline model is set as the base number, and the low and high levels are 
represented by the magnification shown in Tab. 3. In the analysis, only one variable is applied in each case. 
The relations of the nodal position and the GI values normalized with the baseline mode for each mesh size are 
shown in Fig. 9. The results reveal the insignificant effects of element size within the geometrical selection. 
 
3.5 Results of Delamination Analysis 
In the analysis of the geometry effect of delamination, the radius size of the embedded circle 
delamination is applied as the variable. The baseline mode follows the process described in the previous 
section, and the range of the geometry is selected from 0.2×Rvia to 1.0×Rvia with 0.2×Rvia interval. The GI value 
of different delamination sizes is given in Fig. 10, and the red-dashed lines indicate the angle where the 
maximum and minimum values occur. The relations of the GI values in each size and the nodal position are all 
the same as the trend of the baseline model. However, the difference between the maximum and minimum 
value is more prominent when the delamination radius is larger. Besides, the GI value increases while the 
delamination radius expands, but the maximum GI value is less than 1.2 J/m2 for all delamination sizes. 
In summary, the above GI values are far below the Gc value reported in the literature (at least 300 J/m2) 
[11]. This result implies that if the delamination size did not exceed the size of the via in the proposed 3D 
package, the defect as shown in Fig. 2 might not extend under the applied thermal loading condition. 
According to the thermal cycling test results reported by EOL/ITRI [3], no defects were observed on the 
interconnecting bumps, and the results can verify the simulation GI values in the above analyses. 
 
4. Investigation of Chip Stacking Packaging 
4.1 Manufacturing Process of Chip Stacking Packaging 
The 3D chip stacking package with TSV connections is shown in Fig. 11 [5]. The manufacture process of 
the package is shown in Fig. 12. First, a wafer is handled and thinned down to less than 100 μm. A dry plasma 
machine is used to release stress concentration on the grinding surface of the wafer. Next, a UV laser machine 
is used to form TSV. The Ajinomoto Built-up Film (ABF) is selected to fill in the hole in vacuum ambiance. 
After lamination and curing processes (150°C/30 min), the laser ABF opening is executed in the filled hole. A 
copper material is selected to fill the ABF opening by electroplating. Finally, the copper bump is executed, 
and the single layer of 3D chip stacking package is accomplished. Fig. 13 shows the SEM picture of the 
cross-section view of the single layer. No wafer crack or voids exist. Nevertheless, a difference in thickness 
can be observed between the upper and lower ABF layers (Fig. 13). After the ABF laser opening process, the 
thickness difference has induced initial stress on the ABF opening. For this reason, the effect of the variable 
ABF thickness is studied through the process modeling technique. The methodology of the technique is 
verified by comparing the out-of-plane displacement of the experimental data measured by T/G interferometry 
and simulation results. 
 
4.2 Out-of-plane Displacement Measurement by Twyman-Green Interferometry 
To demonstrate the methodology of the process modeling technique, an experiment for metal-bond type 
 8
displacement from FE analysis is in sound agreement with the T/G measurement. According to the 
aforementioned validation, the process modeling methodology utilized in this research can simulate the 
mechanical behavior of the structure. Similarly, the methodology is employed to study the effect of the 
thickness difference of the ABF in the 3D chip stacking package. 
 
4.4 Effect of ABF Thickness Difference 
By referring to the SEM picture of the cross-section view of single layer (Fig. 13), a difference in the 
thickness exists between the upper and lower ABF layers. Based on the abovementioned demonstration, the 
FE model of the single layer of 3D chip stacking package is built by the process modeling methodology. As 
shown in Fig. 19, a quarter FE model of the single layer of 3D chip stacking package is established. The 
simplified process to simulate the single layer of 3D chip stacking package is as follows: 
Step 1: The silicon chip with TSV is birthed at room temperature. 
Step 2: The chip is heated up to 150°C. 
Step 3: The ABF layer is deposited (element birth). 
Step 4: The chip, together with ABF layer, is cooled down to 25°C. 
Step 5: The laser ABF opening is accomplished (element death). 
To study the effect of thickness difference of the ABF, different layer thicknesses with the same chip size 
(7 mm×7 mm×0.1 mm) are analyzed. The details of designed thickness are presented in Fig. 20. Figure 21 
shows the predicted relation between the first principle stress in the chip and the thickness of the ABF layer. 
From the results, an initial stress occurs at TSV after the manufacturing temperature is cooled down to 25° C 
(step 3). Initial stress is induced because of the CTE mismatch between the silicon chip and the ABF layer. 
The effect of the thickness difference of ABF is insignificant. For this reason, such difference is not 
considered in the subsequent package/board-level FE analysis for thermal cycling test. Instead, a specific 
thickness of the ABF layer is provided in the FE model; the thicknesses of upper and lower ABF layers are 
the same. In the process modeling, it is difficult to simulate the chip bonding process. Some manufacturing 
parameters, such as bonding pressure and temperature, should be ensured further. Therefore, initial stress is 
likewise neglected in the FE analysis of the 3D chip stacking package. 
 
4.5 Thermo-mechanical Behavior in Package/board Level FE Analysis 
To assist in the improvement of the 3D chip stacking package, FE models are established to demonstrate 
possible thermo-mechanical behavior during its operation. The cross-section view of the package is shown in 
Fig. 22. The silicon chip is covered with an ABF layer to prevent signal leakage, and the electronic signal is 
connected to a copper via and a copper bump. The intermetallic compound (IMC) layer is formed by thermal 
compression with copper and soldering. The substrate material is designed as pure silicon. Figure 23 shows 
the modeled 3D chip stacking package on a PCB. The quarter model contains two chips [first layer (bottom); 
second layer (top)] modeled on a real sample (Fig. 21). The structure comprises of a silicon chip, silicon 
substrate, PCB, ABF layers, copper via, copper bump, IMC layer, and the square copper bump. The geometry 
of the package is shown in Table 1. Symmetric boundary conditions are imposed on the XY and YZ planes. 
Moreover, the Y-directional displacement of the node at the XZ plane origin point is constrained to prevent 
rigid body motion. In FE analysis, the established FE model is subjected to thermal cycle loading from –55 to 
 10
During life prediction analysis, Yew et al. [21] applied the Engelmaier fatigue model [22] from an IPC 
copper foil ductility round-robin study to predict the thermal fatigue life of copper traces in electronic 
packaging. The formula of the Engelmaier model is shown in followed equation: 
plasticelastic
ff
Nfu
total DN
D
E
S f





 

           
75.0
36.0
)exp(
9.0 6.0
)10log(17851.0
5
 (3)
 
where Δεtotal is the total strain range, Nf is the number of mean cycles-to-failure, Df is the fatigue ductility 
coefficient, E is Young's modulus, Su is the ultimate tensile strength, Δεelastic .is the elastic strain range, and 
Δεplactic is the plastic strain range. In the present work, the formula of the plastic strain range is selected to 
predict the fatigue life of copper traces in the TSV packaging structure. 
 
5.3 Chip Stacking Number Effect 
To simplify the FE model and reduce the simulation time, the effects of the chip stacking number were 
studied. Silicon is a brittle material, so the first principal stress of the chip is selected. The analysis results of 
2- to 5-layer stacking are shown in Fig. 32. The stresses on the top and bottom chips were nearly constant and 
highly similar despite different chip stacking numbers; values were approximately 70 MPa. The von Mises 
stress was selected to determine the mechanical behavior of copper vias because copper is a ductile material. 
The simulation results of 2- to 5-layer stacking are shown in Fig. 33. The stresses of the vias were about 145 
MPa, and the trend for different chip stacking numbers was considerably smooth. In addition, experimental 
results from the ITRI showed that failures occurred at the copper trace and near the silicon substrate. This 
required analysis of stress behavior of copper traces. The simulation results from two layers to five layers 
stacking are shown in Fig. 34. The maximum von Mises stress of the bottom copper trace was found near the 
substrate, registering 136.82 MPa at 125°C. No obvious variation in different chip stacking numbers was 
observed. 
The trends derived from the results above show that the stress in different chip stacking numbers is stable. 
Therefore, the simplified two-layer chip stacking model can replace the original model during analysis of the 
thermal-mechanical behavior of TSV as in the following simulations. 
 
5.3 Life Prediction of Copper Trace 
In FE analysis, a model with different mesh densities will affect simulation results. Before the strain 
value is taken into Engelmaier model to carry life prediction out. Mesh size should be decided to obtain a 
stable and trustable strain value. To control the mesh density of copper trace, we referred Yew’s research. 
Yew performed the reliability test for panel base packaging structure (Fig. 35), and utilized finite element 
analysis to simulate the mechanical behavior of this structure. The maximum total strain occurred at copper 
trace was 0.585%, and the fatigue life could be predicted by Engelmaier model. The value was 1,150 cycles.  
After reliability test, the characteristic life was 1,336 cycles from Weibull distribution. Therefore, the 
simulation result agreed with the reliability test. In the finite element model, the element size of copper trace 
was 20 by 20 by 10 μm, so we can modify the original TSV model to maintain the mesh density as literature. 
 12
package. In the thermo-mechanical behavior analysis, the thermal expansion of ABF material can bring about 
tensile/compressive force to the copper via. Furthermore, the thermal expansion of ABF material and copper 
via can also cause stress concentration at the periphery of the TSV. Using the design concept, the effect of the 
copper via diameter is analyzed. From the results, the stress concentration phenomenon at the copper via can 
be improved with increasing diameter of the copper via. Nevertheless, the too large diameter should be 
averted to protect the chip structure. 
After the reliability problems caused by manufacturing process are analyzed, the long term reliability of 
chip stacking package should be further considered for mass production. In life prediction analysis, the 
maximum equivalent plastic strain is found at the bottom trace near the silicon substrate. The Engelmaier 
model is selected to predict the fatigue life, which is validated by analyzing experimental results from the 
literature. In addition, analysis of substrate material effects found that TSV structures with a BT substrate, a 
soft material, can protect the bottom trace and prevent fractures from occurring at the trace. Analysis of 
underfill effects shows that chips and vias undergo more stress because the CTE of the ABF layer and the 
underfill are very high. However, copper traces are protected by the underfill; no apparent alteration in 
reliability performance is observed. 
 
7. Acknowledgements 
The authors would like to thank the National Science Council (NSC97-2221-E-007-007-MY3) for the 
financial support and the National Center for High-Performance Computing for providing the computing 
support. 
 
8. Reference 
1. C. T. Ko, S. L. Chen, C. W. Chiang, T. Y. Kuo, Y. C. Shih, and Y. H. Chen, "Embedded Active Device 
Packaging Technology for Next-Generation Chip-in-Substrate Package," Electronic Components and 
Technology Conference; pp. 322-329, San Diego, California, USA, May 30- June 2, 2006. 
2. W. C. Lo, Y. H. Chen, J. D. Ko, T. Y. Kuo, Y. C. Shih, and S. T. Lu, "An Innovative Chip-to-Wafer and 
Wafer-to-Wafer Stacking" Electronic Components and Technology Conference; pp. 409-414, San Diego, 
California, USA, May 30- June 2, 2006. 
3. T. Y. Kuo, S. M. Chang, Y. C. Shih, C. W. Chiang, C. K. Hsu, C. K. Lee, C. T. Lin, Y. H. Chen, and W. 
C. Lo, "Reliability Tests for a Three Dimensional Chip Stacking Structure with Through Silicon Via 
Connections and Low Cost," Electronic Components and Technology Conference, pp. 853-858, Florida, 
USA, May 27-30, 2008. 
4. N. Ranganathan, K. Prasad, N. Balasubramanian and K. L. Pey, "A Study of Thermo-mechanical Stress 
and Its Impact on Through-silicon Vias," Journal of Micromechanics and Microengineering, 2008. 
5. C. S. Selvanatagam, J. H. Lau, X. Zhang, S. K. W. Seah, K. Vaidyanathan and T. C. Chai, "Nonlinear 
Thermal Stress/Strain Analysis of Copper Filled TSV (Through Silicon Via) and their Flip-Chip 
Microbumps," Electronic Components and Technology Conference, pp. 1073-1081, Florida, USA, May 
27-30, 2008. 
6. M. C. Hsieh and C. K. Yu, "Thermo-Mechanical Simulations for 4-Layer Stacked IC Packages," 9th. Int. 
Conf on Thermal, Mechanical and Multiphysics Simulation and Experiments in Micro-Electronics and 
 14
Using Ball Shear Strength Test and Board-Level Finite Element Analysis," Microelectronics Reliability, 
Vol. 47, No. 9-11, pp. 1658-1662, 2007. 
22. W. Engelmaier, A New Ductility and Flexural Fatigue Test Method for Copper Foil and Flexible Printed 
Wiring, Proceedings IPC, IPC-TP-204, Washington, USA, 1978. 
 16
 
Fig. 1: The OM cross-sectional picture of TSV. 
 
 
Fig. 2: The SEM cross-sectional pictures of 3D package and copper bump interconnection. 
 
 
Fig. 3: 3D view of MVCCT for eight-noded three-dimensional solid elements. 
 
 18
 
Fig. 7: The deformation result of embedded delamination in the specified region at 125°C with a geometry 
0.6×Rvia. The cross-section area is at the 135° direction of the local model. 
 
 
Fig. 8: The relation of the G value and the nodal position. 
 
 
(a)                            (b)                           (c) 
Fig. 9: The results of the mesh density analysis in the (a) radius, (b) tangential, and (c) thickness direction. 
 
 20
 
    
 
 
(a)                                         (b) 
Fig. 13: SEM of the cross-section view of a single layer (a) chip thickness: 50 μm; (b) chip thickness: 140 μm 
[5]. 
 
      
(a)                                    (b) 
Fig. 14: Metal-bond type chips (a) Au bump side; (b) deposited Au layer side. 
 
Center-edge out-of-plane 
displacement (μm)
Center-corner out-of-plane 
displacement (μm)
Average
(12 chips)
3.236 6.305
 
Fig. 15: Deformation results of the metal-bond type chip from Twyman-Green measurement (at 25° C) 
 
 
Fig. 16: The measurement for the direction of the out-of-plane displacement 
 22
Step 3 - Element Birth (ABF Layer , 150° C)
Upper ABF Layer
Lower ABF Layer
Case Upper ABF Layer Thickness Lower ABF Layer Thickness
Origin 40 μm 40 μm
1 37.5 μm 37.5 μm
2 37.5μm 35 μm
3 37.5μm 32.5 μm
4 35 μm 35 μm
5 35 μm 32.5 μm
6 32.5 μm 32.5 μm
Thickness of ABF Layer 
Upper  ≧ Lower
 
Fig. 20: The different thicknesses of ABF layers with the same chip size (step 2) 
 
 
Fig. 21: The predicted relation between the first principle stress in the chip and thickness of ABF layer. 
 
ABF Layer
Silicon chip
Copper Via
Copper Bump
Square
Copper Bump
Silicon Substrate
IMC Layer
 
Fig. 22: Cross-section view of the 3D chip stacking package. 
 
 24
Th
er
m
al
 E
xp
an
si
on
Therm
al Expansion
ABF Layer 
(60 ppm/°C)
Copper Bump 
(17 ppm/°C)
Copper Via 
(17 ppm/°C) Silicon Chip (2.62 ppm/°C)
Cu-Sn Alloy 
(23 ppm/°C)
 
Fig. 25: The schematic diagram of thermal expansion of ABF layer. 
 
 
Fig. 26: The predicted von Mises stress distribution of copper via in the package-level FE analysis 
(temperature=125°C). 
 
 
Fig. 27: The predicted first principle stress distribution and vector image of the chip in the package-level FE 
analysis (temperature=125° C) 
 
 26
 
Fig. 30: Weibull plot of thermal cycling test data [3]. 
 
 
Fig. 31: SEM view of thermal cycling test failed sample, crack is found on the conductive line [3]. 
 
 
Fig. 32: Chip stress analysis of different chip stacking numbers in the TSV structure at 125°C. 
 
63.2 
1,216 
Chip side
Substrate side 
Broken Region 
 28
 
Fig. 36: The mesh density of copper trace in TSV structure. 
 
von Mises Total Strain (%)
Cycle -55℃ 125℃ Total
1 0.22 0.29 0.51
2 0.22 0.29 0.51
3 0.22 0.28 0.51
4 0.23 0.28 0.51
5 0.23 0.28 0.51
0.28 %
0.23 %
Thermal Cycling Analysis : ‐55℃ ~ 125℃
 
Fig. 37: The maximum total strain value of different cycle, strain value is stable after five cycles. 
 
 
Fig. 38: Distribution of maximum total strain, the location of trace failure in the experiment is similar to 
maximum strain occurs in the simulation. 
 
Chip Side 
Substrate Side 
Broken Region 
 30
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
□ 達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
附件三 
 32
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：   年   月   日 
一、參加會議經過 
二、與會心得 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
四、建議 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
六、其他 
 
 
 
 
計畫編號 NSC  －    －  －    －    － 
計畫名稱  
出國人員
姓名  
服務機構
及職稱  
會議時間  年 月 日至  年 月 日 會議地點  
會議名稱 
(中文) 
(英文) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 
(英文) 
附件五 
 34
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
                                     日期：   年   月   日 
一、國際合作研究過程 
二、研究成果 
三、建議 
四、其他 
 
 
 
計畫編號 NSC  －    －  －    －    － 
計畫名稱  
出國人員
姓名  
服務機構
及職稱  
合作國家  合作機構  
出國時間  年 月 日至  年 月 日 出國地點  
   
近 240 篇的技術文章以口頭方式發表；並有 60 餘篇論文以海報張貼方式
展示其研究，並提供充足時間讓與會人士深入與作者進行討論。主辦單
位於每天早上舉行作者早餐會，提供當天各場次的 Session Organizer 與
發表者認識及交流的機會，並於七月六日會議第一天安排大型晚宴，提
供良好的交流環境。在七月七日會議第二天中午亦安排午宴，除了舉行
研究論文競賽結果發表外，也讓各國人士進行學術研究上的分享和文化
上的交流。 
此次發表的論文題目為: DETERMINATION AND VERIFICATION OF 
SILICON DIE STRENGTH USING BALL-BREAKER TEST，主要內容為
利用球型壓痕技術搭配音波放射系統(Acoustic emission system)之實驗方
法來進行量測矽晶片受到球型探針施壓時，初始裂痕產生之時間點及該
時間點矽晶片所承受之力量值。當得到實驗結果後，再藉由有限單元法
分析軟體 ANSYS/LS-DYNA3D®進行球型壓痕實驗之動態模擬分析，並
輔以赫茲接觸理論(Hertzian contact theory)驗證其模型之正確性。接而利
用此驗證過後之模型來模擬分析矽晶片在實驗過程中，結構內部之應力
分布及其變化，並配合實驗結果決定矽晶片之應力強度。另外，此研究
也針對不同厚度之矽晶片及使用不同基板材料所測量得到之矽晶片應力
強度與破壞模式進行比較與討論。本篇文章於七月六日早上八點以口頭
報告形式發表，會中各研究單位亦對此議題進行相關討論。藉由此會議
與各業界研究單位研發人員以及學界學者交換意見與心得，了解各界在
   
議能在國內大力宣傳本會議，並提供國內從事相關研究之學生或業界之
研發人員關於本研討會議之相關資訊。 
 
發表論文 
全文或摘要 如附件 
 
 
 2 Copyright © 2011 by ASME 
ABSTRACT 
3D or stacked-die packages are becoming increasingly popular in the electronic 
packaging industry because of the current market demand for cheaper and smaller products 
with high performance characteristics. As a result, the IC silicon wafers have to be ground 
through wafer-thinning processes to achieve greater packaging density. However, it is possible 
to induce crack of the chips during stacking process or in the use of the device. Therefore, this 
study aims to determine the die strength of (1 0 0) silicon which can provide to designers for 
reliability of the die. 
Several methods have already been adopted to determine the strength of silicon die. 
These methods include three-point bending test (3PB), four-point bending test (4PB) and 
ball-breaker test. However, 3PB and 4PB have difficulty for application not only in 
experiment set ups and silicon die sample preparation aspects but also in actual use because of 
their sensitivity to both edge and surface defects. Therefore, the ball-breaker test is then 
proposed in this study to measure the maximum allowable force of silicon die. Meanwhile, 
comparing with experiment data, the finite element method (FEM) analysis using commercial 
software ANSYS/LS-DYNA3D® are introduced to determine the silicon die strength. 
Moreover, the 3D model of the ball-breaker test is verified through the Hertzian contact 
theory. The effect of the thickness on silicon die strength and the failure modes are also 
discussed in this study. As the applied force increases, the crack appears on the edge of the 
contact area on the top surface and flare out within the die. However, the radial crack occurs 
on the bottom surface while the bending effect on the bottom side of the test die has become 
significant as the die thickness decreases. The early failure may occur at the position and then 
crack through the top surface causing the die breakage. In other words, the determined 
strength in this experiment decreases as the thickness of test die becomes increasingly thin. 
Furthermore, the simulation results show that the allowable force of silicon dies increases as 
the softer foundation material is applied while the bending behavior is not significant. 
However, the breakage of the thinner test die placed on the softer material is much easier to 
happen because the tensile stress on the bottom surface resulting from the bending behavior 
increases rapidly and significantly influences the die breakage. 
 
NOMENCLATURE 
  
 Radius of contact area 
 Applied load 
 Radius of indenter 
 
Combined modulus of the indenter and the 
specimen 
 
Young’s modulus of the indenter (i=1) and 
specimen (i=2) 
 Poisson’s ratio of the indenter (i=1) and 
 4 Copyright © 2011 by ASME 
contact surface; and (d) the distance between the surfaces of the bodies is zero inside and 
greater than zero outside the contact circle. Hertz observed that as the indenter contacts with 
the elastic body, the radius of the contact area  has a relation with the applied load , the 
radius of indenter  and the material properties of each contact body. The equation is shown 
below [12, 13]: 
 (1) 
where  is the combined modulus of the indenter and the specimen is derived through: 
 
(2)
where  and , and  and  describe the Young’s modulus and the Poisson’s ratio of 
the indenter and the specimen respectively. Moreover, the stress field within the specimen was 
investigated by Huber [14], and the stress contours are shown in Figure 1. Note that the three 
principal stresses are compressive on the surface of the specimen and beneath the indenter, 
but the 1st principal stress outside the contact area becomes tensile and has a maximum value 
at the edge of the contact circle. This stress is important for the initiation of a conical fracture 
in a brittle material and derived through: 
 (3) 
    
(a) (b) 
 
(c) 
Figure 1. The three principal stresses contours (a) ; (b) ; and, (c) . SS is contact 
surface between sphere and flat specimen and the diameter of contact circle is AA [15]. 
BALL-BREAKER TEST EXPERIMENT AND RESULTS 
The ball-breaker test is proposed to determine the silicon die strength in this study. The apparatus of the 
ball-breaker test include load cell, displacement actuator, foundation and a spherical indenter with a radius of 
1mm (Figure 2). The test specimens used in this experiment are (1 0 0) silicon die with polished surface and size 
of 2mm x 2mm in various thickness (200um, 525um, 675um and 1000um). As the loading is applied on the 
 6 Copyright © 2011 by ASME 
Figure 3. The loading curve under ball-breaker test. 
 
Figure 4. The critical loading of silicon dies with 
different thickness. 
 
(a) (b) 
 
(c) 
Figure 5. Surface condition of silicon dies under different 
forces: (a) defect; (b) ring crack; and (c) totally broken (top 
surface). 
BALL-BREAKER TEST SIMULATION AND ANALYSIS 
The ball-breaker test is constructed and analyzed using the commercial software ANSYS/LS-DYNA3D®. A 
1/4 3D model of the spherical indenter, silicon die and foundation is applied because of the symmetry 
 8 Copyright © 2011 by ASME 
Figure 9. The differences between the results are found to be negligible. Therefore, the 
present mesh and boundary condition of the ball-breaker test model can be applied in 
determining silicon die strength further. 
Figure 8. The mesh model of the ball-breaker test 
and the details near the contact region. 
 
Table 1. The material properties for FEM analysis. 
Item Material (GPa) ν 
Indenter Tungsten Carbide 614 0.22 
Die Silicon 130 0.28 
Aluminum 68 0.36 
Copper 110 0.34 Foundation 
Steel 207 0.3 
 
Figure 9. Normalized  on the contact surface. 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION  
The effects of die thickness and foundation material on silicon die strength are discussed 
in this section. The silicon die strength can be determined by matching the failure force 
measured from the experiment with the contact force from the simulation. The example result 
on the contact force versus simulation time curve for a 500um thick silicon die is shown in 
 10 Copyright © 2011 by ASME 
FEM based on the experiment results is closer to the real silicon die strength because the 
crack occurrence within the die is more rapid, causing the die breakage. 
 
(a) (b) 
Figure 11. The stress distribution of the (a) 
x-direction stress; and (b) 1st principal stress. 
 
 
(a) (b) 
Figure 12. The tensile stress distribution of the 1st principal 
stress within the (a) 500um thick die; and (b) 200um thick die. 
 
Figure 13. Maximum 1st principal stress of silicon 
dies with different thickness. 
 
(a) (b) 
 12 Copyright © 2011 by ASME 
(a) (b) 
Figure 16. The relation between maximum 1st principal stress 
and contact force of a (a) 675um thick die; and (b) 200um thick 
die. The arrow indicates that the maximum tensile stress 
transfers from Hertz stress to the stress on the center of the 
bottom surface. 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
This study proposes the use of the ball-breaker test accompanied with FEM analysis in determining silicon 
die strength. There are two kinds of failure modes in the ball-breaker test. The Hertzian cone crack on the top 
surface of test die is the major failure mode in a thicker die. The second type of failure, radial crack on the 
bottom surface is becoming more important as the thickness of test die decreases. Moreover, the determined 
strength of the die with lesser thickness is significantly lower than that of the thicker die because the tensile 
stress on bottom surface increases rapidly resulting from the bending behavior. Overall, the strength evaluated 
from FEM is closer to the real silicon strength because a lesser die thickness leads to a faster crack occurrence 
within the die, causing a die breakage.   
Furthermore, based on the strength evaluation from the experiment and simulation results, the allowable 
force of silicon dies increases as the foundation material becomes softer while the bending behavior is not 
significant. However, the breakage of the test die with lesser thickness placed on softer material is much easier to 
happen because the tensile stress on the bottom surface resulting from the bending behavior will increase rapidly 
and significantly influence the failure of the thinner die. Overall, the influence of foundation material increases 
as the thickness of silicon die decreases. Therefore, choosing the material of foundation is important for ensuring 
the accuracy of the silicon die strength determined through ball-breaker test, especially for thinner dies. 
However, the strength evaluated in this study will be overestimated because the data measured from the 
load cell cannot detect precisely the initiation time of a crack. In order to solve this problem, the acoustic 
emission method can be added further in the future. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
The authors would like to thank National Science Council of Taiwan 
NSC97-2221-E-007-007-MY3 for providing this research with the financial support. 
 
REFERENCE 
 14 Copyright © 2011 by ASME 
 
 16 Copyright © 2011 by ASME 
可提供學生之間重要的交流。藉由三天密集議程，討論世界上微電子與
微系統之發展現況與未來的走勢。 
敝人此次發表的論文題目為: Thin Film Residual Stress Assessment of 
MEMS microphone Using Process Modeling Technology (以製程模擬分析
法評估電容式微機電麥克風薄膜之殘餘應力)，屬於微機電薄膜沉積相關
技術的研究，主要以有限單元軟體 ANSYS®與製程模擬技術進行模擬，
並輔以實驗結果進行驗證，得到薄膜之殘餘應力。薄膜之殘餘應力分為
本質應力與非本質應力，本質應力受製程影響大，目前仍無一理論公式
表示，本研究藉由多次退火來降低各材料之本質應力。並藉由應力量測
儀等機台之實驗取得薄膜之平均應力，進而分析微機電電容式麥克風其
兩電極板於製程結束後因應力產生之翹曲行為及改善方法。本篇文章於
七月七日下午六點以口頭報告形式發表，會中各研究單位亦對此議題進
行討論。藉由此會議與各業界研究單位研發人員以及學界學者交換意見
與心得，了解各界在此研究方向所遭遇之困難與研發成果，亦可對本研
究仍可多琢磨之部分進行討論，收穫良多。 
 
五、 與會心得 
InterPACK主要是針對電子封裝及整合電、光系統與微機電等領域之
研討會，會議主題專精於封裝結構的散熱問題、模擬與微系統，議題相
當集中，提供對此相關議題有興趣者一個相當優良的交流平台。這次是
 18 Copyright © 2011 by ASME 
after each process. A comparison of the experimental and simulated results showed that dislocation induced 
intrinsic stress in aluminum can be rearrangement after first annealing. The lattice mismatch induced 
intrinsic stress, however, will influence the residual stress of the aluminum film when its thickness is under 
1μm. The residual stresses and the deformations in two electrode plates are presented for the process 
simulation in the MEMS microphone. The polysilicon would buckle and warp downward if it is subjected to 
compressive stress. However, the polysilicon diaphragm would be flat in the positive intrinsic stress. 
 
 
97 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：江國寧 計畫編號：97-2221-E-007-007-MY3 
計畫名稱：以矽穿孔接合式三維晶片及其封裝結構之散熱效能與長時可靠度分析 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 2 2 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
