國科會 
「極端氣候下複合性災害防治專案計畫」 
「以長滯空無人載具建立防災與救災應用的行動空網通訊系統」 
 
NSC100-2218-E006-002 
研究計畫執行報告(第二年) 
成功大學航太系林清一教授 
 
 
本年度計畫執行以微波通訊及超輕飛機測試為主的救災通訊系統，提
供受災民政以手機通聯的技術，將驗證微波通訊空對地間的訊號傳輸，
發展支援的工作包含超輕型載具改裝為無人機的設計與製作、無人機
自主飛行控制、無人機空中防撞系統、防災系統通報與監控等工作。 
 
1. 微波通訊空對地間的訊號傳輸，子計畫一林清一教授、子計畫二
王春清教授，建立 5.8GHz 微波通訊的機載與地面追蹤，由於微波
通訊的嚴苛性能，本項實驗遇到通訊天線上的技術問題，正逐項
克服。為追求研究成果，將以 E-Cell 及 Repeater 兩項系統平行進
行飛行測試。Repeater 的規劃採用 900MHz 通訊系統，超輕機的翼
展為 12 公尺，Donor 及 Receiver 天線隔離度可以降低到-90dB 以
內，比原設計採用Ce-71無人機系統的3.6公尺翼展(估算為-140dB)
有更大的好處。本項實驗測試受到最近兩個多月來的氣候不穩定
及大雨，測試進度停滯緩慢。 
2. 超輕型載具改裝為無人機的設計與製作，主計畫林清一教授、許
棟龍教授，採購一架 Sport II Eipper 超輕機作為基礎，改裝油壓是
伺服操控系統，以及操控電子系統，將翼展為 12 公尺之超輕機改
裝成為無人機，預期可以搭載酬載 80 公斤以上，攜帶 E-Cell 或
Repeater 做空中測試。本機改裝已經完成，將於天氣許可條件下進
行試飛。 
3. 無人機自主飛行控制，子計畫一林清一教授、子計畫三林煥榮教
授，以地形地貌為基礎，建立格點追蹤系統，規劃飛行路徑的導
航飛行控制，發展自動駕駛軟體及硬體。飛行測試已經陸續進行，
但同樣受到天氣影響，有點停滯。 
4. 無人機空中防撞系統(UAV TCAS)，主計畫林清一教授、李志清教
授，利用 900MHz 通訊系統廣播無人機的位置行蹤給有人機，並
在有人機上建立 TCAS 自主防撞及避讓警告系統。本系統將發展
為定型化之技術，提供國內防災救災體系，包含無人機團隊及各
空勤總隊與各形式救援機種，作為標準配備。 
 
100 年 11 月 07 日：飛行測試已經啟動，選定週三四天氣許可即可測
試。超輕載具已經送達，開始進行系統機構之組裝。許棟龍教授進行
飛機性能分析所需數據，將於通訊測試時進行飛行取樣。 
101 年 01 月 09 日：盧衍良教授將換到開南大學，參與研究的學生仍
可以繼續。微波通訊計畫通測試遇到瓶頸，將先探討天線的改裝及增
強為主，降低機身震動的影響。自主飛行控制已經可以繼續進行測試，
初步測試試飛成功，路徑規劃軟體驗證 OK。 
 
101 年 03 月 05 日：自主飛行控制飛機失事，Micropilot 飛控板燒毀，
已經重新採購飛控系統，變更硬體，植入新的路徑規劃與控制軟體。 
 
101 年 05 月 04 日：通訊測試天線機構改裝完成，恢復測試。超輕機
改裝進度落後。自主飛行控制測試順利，更新的飛控模板已經順利完
成測試飛行，達到預期性能，將切換至路徑規劃的飛行控制。自主飛
控系統將與改裝的無人超輕飛機整合，作為本計畫第三年的飛行平台。
無人機空中防撞系統(UAV TCAS)之電子硬體與軟體已經啟動發展設
計測試。 
 
101 年 06 月 21 日：計畫執行研討會 
 
本年度預期成果將包含： 
(1) 完成超輕無人機的改裝與基本飛行測試， 
(2) E-Cell 及 Repeater 機載飛行通訊測試，5.8GHz 及 900MHz 空
對地通訊鏈路測試， 
(3) 地形地貌路徑規劃無人機自主飛控系統， 
(4) 無人機空中防撞技術的飛行測試， 
(5) 防災救災整體監控管理系統的發展。 
1 
 
UAS Cloud Surveillance System 
 
Chin E. Lin   Cheng-Ru Li   Ya-Hsien Lai 
Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics 
National Cheng Kung University 
Tainan, Taiwan, 701 
e-mail: chinelin@mail.ncku.edu.tw;  
Tel: 06-2741820, Fax: 06-2361835 
 
ABSTRACT 
On UAV missions, flight information 
should be prompt for use to all participating 
team members. Supporting from 3G mobile 
communications, UAV flight data can be uplink 
onto Internet and share with all users at different 
locations.  Using an Android smart phone for 
data acquisition on airborne and cope with 
Google Earth® 3D map, the proposed UAS 
surveillance system is constructed on the cloud. 
The ground computer offers MySQL database 
management for all downlink data and converts 
into user friendly format for easy access. With 
special attitude and altitude display modes to 
match with UAV dynamic performance, it offers 
very good flight awareness to operator and 
observers throughout mission. This paper 
presents a technical realization on the UAS 
cloud surveillance system for Ce-71 UAV 
operations with excellent sense in surveillance.   
Keywords: Cloud system, Android Smart phone, 
UAV/UAS, Mobile 3G, Ground station, Internet 
access. 
 
1. Introduction 
The traditional monitor system for the 
unmanned aircraft system (UAS) was not able to 
integrate with many information sources from 
different level of sensors and subsystems.  
When an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) is 
operating with specific missions in certain area, 
only the local operation team can fully track the 
flight from its ground control station.  Its real 
time operation information should be shared 
among many team members in a transparent way 
[1].  While the ground station is designed to 
receive and save UAV flight information, the 
conventional flight monitor can only be 
supervised on some particular computers from 
wireless communication [2].  This kind of 
monitoring mechanism can share the operation 
information with limited sources at the same time.  
And, it is also unable to integrate heterogeneous 
sources into one complete system architecture.   
Recent demands to connect many 
heterogeneous systems bring in the necessities of 
a wide open system to deal with new levels of 
complexity [3]. Real time information access 
through Internet is the most prompt way at 
present to share instant data with many 
participating team members.  Cloud computing 
is emerging in such a way that symbolizes the 
Internet’s broad distribution on simplifying its 
complexity.  By using the cloud computing, any 
user from any locations can access to all services 
via Internet.  How to manage a cloud network 
then turns into security concern and routing 
problem in realization [4].   
UAV surveillance requires real time data 
acquisition on speed, altitude, attitude, path, 
location and its health condition, and establishes 
communication link down to ground station. For 
such a demand, the developing UAS surveillance 
is focused on flight information and operation.  
With such a linkage, how to collect UAV 
operation data onto cloud computing becomes a 
realization problem?  Then, UAV mission can 
be operated with better performance in real time.  
The cloud system becomes the most appropriate 
configuration to share UAV operation with all 
participating team members for better 
coordination and cooperation.     
UAV flight missions are mostly operating 
on terrain critical territories.  Although the 
geographic information system (GIS) can 
display proper terrain situation awareness, it is 
still not sufficient to assure flight safety for 
UAVs.  Current Google Earth® [a] can display 
very good quality of 3D geographic map in real 
time.  An UAV is designed to uplink its flight 
data into the cloud via wireless communication 
and generate an appropriate flight display on 3D 
GIS for operation.  By integration of 3D UAV 
model with 3D terrain GIS, the cloud UAV 
surveillance system can be improved for better 
flight awareness in operation.  
Based on the mature technical supports, an 
Android smart phone is installed on the UAV to 
relay the flight information to the web computer.  
The flight information can be shown on web 
page to share with many computers at the same 
time.  On the web page, multiple functions can 
be built to make available for selection of 
different flight information as needed.  A 
combination of 3G mobile communication with 
3D models [5] can show the actual flight 
situation on Google Earth.   
To the basic concept, the flight information 
can be down link to the ground station by use of 
smart phone on the UAV.  While the 3D terrain 
model can be simulated on the cloud web during 
the UAV carrying on a flight mission, the ground 
3 
 
cloud service by Google offers any users to view 
graphic information from the ground station. 
 
Figure 1: Share information in cloud computing.  
 
Figure 2: Private clouds for UAV surveillance. 
There are three different databases created 
in the web server.  A 2D flight plan, as shown 
in Figure 3, is saved in the flight computer 
before starting the UAV mission.  The ground 
computer interface is shown in Figure 4. When 
the UAV executes its mission, the system reads 
the setting parameters as flight commands for 
operation.  Flight plan is very important to 
UAV missions to a clearance of airspace for 
aviation safety.   
 
Figure 3: 2D flight plan for mission.  
The geographical coordinates and altitudes 
are saved in the flight database by identifying 
with mission serial numbers, together with all 
the upcoming information from flight computer.  
All data provide the ground station to create a 
3D environment model for UAV operation. 
The data have certain degree of correctness to 
represent actual operation conditions.  Figure 5 
shows the database with UAV flight condition.  
When the flight command is in action, the smart 
phone will receive its time correctly and save 
into database.  Any two messages will be 
compared by their time delays in operation 
 
Figure 4: Ground computer interface.  
Figure 5: Web server database. 
  The database formats as Figure 6 with 
abbreviations as: Id: Mission Number or 
Program Number; LAT: Latitude; LON: 
Longitude; SPD: GPS Speed 
(km/hr); CRT: Climb Rate (m/s); ALT: Altitude 
(m); ALH: Holding altitude (m); CRS: Course 
( ∘ ); BER: Heading Bearing 
(∘ ); WPN: Waypoint Number for WP0 is 
home; DST: Distance to Waypoint 
(m); THH: Throttle (%); RLL: Roll (∘), + is 
right, - is left; PCH: Pitch (∘); STT: Switch 
Status; IMM: Real time; DAT: Save time.  An 
interface to show the database status is presented 
on the ground control station.  
 
 
Figure 6: Display of web server database. 
5 
 
Figure 9: 3D flight display with attitude and altitude on Google Earth during take-off. 
 
The conventional srveillance system uses 
icons to indicate the UAV relative location [5] on 
2D Google map display with more clear sense 
on flight route and actual position.  As the 
flight plan with waypoints in Figure 3, the 
proposed cloud surveillance system is developed 
for UAV mission operation in real time display.  
The user can use any heterogeneous system to 
join the mission operation from Internet under 
the browser execution.   
The participating users can download 
information from the proposed cloud 
surveillance system to see the simultaneous 
flight information in 2D map, without additional 
software. For flight operation, the flight data are 
sent to the ground surveillance display to assist 
the operator to correctly control the UAV 
following the flight plan to waypoints.  
Airborne data such as throttle, speed, altitude 
and heading are most important to display to 
assist the flight operator.  
The cloud surveillance system can offer a 
historical replay tool for users to playback the 
flight information in the database.  Once a 
mission serial number is selected, the 
surveillance software initiates the same software 
to display the historical flight information on a 
simple button.  The original flight information 
can be replayed according to demand just like 
video playing, as shown in Figure 10.  The real 
time surveillance and historical replay display 
the same output.  
 
 
Figure 10: Flight display integration. 
 
5. Conclusion  
In the UAV mission, the ground 
surveillance system plays very important 
information guidance to flight operator and all 
participating team members.  The awareness to 
flight performance and operation is very helpful 
to mission success.  While UAV function 
capability has been fully developed, surveillance 
and rescue missions may gradually become the 
most useful application in the UAS.   
The Arduino collects different information 
and transmits to the destination.   As the sensor 
hardware collects the information and transfers 
to flight computer via Bluetooth, flight computer 
receives the data string, and saves in web server 
via 3G communication uplink into Internet.  
Instead of using notebook computer, in this study, 
an Android smart phone is adopted as flight 
computer to perform data acquisition.   
In verification on Ce-71 UAV, the 3D 
model does not smoothly match with the UAV 
flight performance, because the system shows 
the authentic flight information and process.  
The cloud system only shows the authentic 
message without calculating the action variation.  
The airborne MCU downlinks and refreshes data 
in 1 Hz, so as the surveillance system updates in 
1 Hz.  During flight tests, the flight operator 
Airborne Antenna Tracking for Sky-Net Mobile Communication 
Chin E. Lin, Ying-Chi Huang, Ya-Hsien Lai, Yung-Lan Yeh, Wei-Chi Huang 
Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics 
National Cheng Kung University 
Tainan, Taiwan 701 
Tel: 886-6-2741820, Fax: 886-6-2361835 
e-mail: chinelin@mail.ncku.edu.tw 
 
Abstract 
 Sky-Net Project surveys a concept to 
establish a mobile communication from airborne.  
A base station transceiver (BTS) is carried on an 
aerial vehicle to relay mobile users to ground 
base station.  The Sky-Net System is designed 
for a temporary communication environment for 
emergency and disaster rescue in remote areas. 
An eCell BTS is selected for microwave 
downlink which requires high precision 
line-of-sight (LOS) antenna alignment. Two 
directional antennas for horizontal and vertical 
polarization are installed on airborne to track the 
ground receiver.  To overcome the dynamic 
flight characteristics, a real time servo control 
system is developed on a microcontroller-based 
on GPS and AHRS feedbacks to accomplish 
high accuracy requirement for 5.8GHz 
microwave system.  The UAV and ground 
station are exchanging their 10Hz GPS data and 
linking via 900MHz and 5.8GHz wireless 
modules for higher reliability.  By reading the 
difference of attitude and position data, the 
ground antenna is tracking the UAV through the 
servo control system.  The airborne unit reads 
AHRS and ground GPS data to control the 
tracking servo mechanism to align the airborne 
antenna onto ground antenna. The Euler’s angles 
GPS and flight data are read to determine an 
appropriate angle for antenna alignment to 
ground antenna.  The antenna tracking system 
is completed as the preliminary technology for 
further Sky-Net Project in real flight 
verifications with very stable antenna alignment 
for LOS microwave transmission.  
Keywords: Sky-Net, Servo Tracking Control, 
Sensor Feedback, GPS, AHRS, QoS 
 
1. 1. Introduction 
UAV has been widely used on surveillance, 
rescue and data acquisition in recently years.  
Because of the huge progress of UAV design and 
manufacture, the flight performance for different 
mission profiles can be fulfilled significantly. 
Therefore, numerous applications for autopilot, 
high payload, long haul, real time data 
acquisition are accomplished. In disaster 
surveillance and rescue applications, UAVs are 
used to capture ground information before 
rescue force being throughput.  A new concept 
to establish disaster area communication is 
proposed using UAVs to carry mobile base 
station transceiver (BTS) to relay cell phone 
users to the rescue force.  It is the Sky-Net 
Project as shown in Figure 1. Although 
communication itself is straightforward, 
however, verification needs to overcome some 
key technologies to support the implementation.  
One significant requirement falls on the antenna 
alignment from airborne to ground due to 
microwave LOS propagation property.   
 
Fig. 1: Sky-Net Project concept. 
 
In the Sky-Net concept, the ground station 
can be a fixed location or a moving vehicle, in 
contrast to a higher speed UAVs flying over low 
altitude.  The antenna on either ground or 
important key to achieve the goal.  There are 
two parts in design, the ground (or ground-to-air) 
antenna tracking mechanism and the airborne (or 
air-to-ground) antenna tracking mechanism. 
Both parts include a microcontroller to drive 
two-axis servo mechanism. The microcontroller 
is built by a microprocessor with dual power 
drivers. The servo mechanism is reduction gear 
structure to carry its antenna payload on free 
joints to point the antenna toward the calculated 
X and Y direction referring to each specific 
coordinates. The two-axis rotating mechanism 
design and control method were presented [4-6]. 
There is a precision requirement to 
establish antenna alignment between airborne to 
ground through 5.8GHz transmission in Figure 2.  
GPS sensor-based antenna tracking system is 
designed basically between airborne to ground.  
However, since a flying UAV is dynamically 
changing its attitude during flights, the UAV 
AHRS data is the key parameters to airborne 
tracking onto the ground.   
 
2.1 Ground-to-air tracking 
In UAV mission profile, UAV should fly in 
constant speed over the target area of a few 
kilometers from the ground station.  For a fixed 
location of the ground station, the difference of 
angle on both azimuth and elevation relative to a 
flying UAV are changing in real time.  The 
servo mechanism should be designed to keep up 
with UAV movement from near till far.  Figure 
3 shows the two-axis mechanism design to 
satisfy hemisphere tracking.  Ground-to-air 
mechanism control frequency is setting on 10 Hz 
for UAV flying speed around 70 km/h.  In 
sensor feedback, the azimuth angle is changing 
would be less than 0.004° as the UAV is flying 1 
km away.  To satisfy this condition, the 
precision of motor specification of 59 10 ° can 
meet the requirement using high frequency 
PWM driver to drive step motor with 9.5 kg/cm 
and 13.5 kg/cm torque on Y-axis and Z-axis, 
respectively. The stepping motor torque 
specification matches its antenna payload.  
 
 
Fig. 3: Ground-to-air tracking mechanism. 
 
The GPS data in 10Hz is transformed from 
WGS84 into TWD97 coordinate system for 
calculation convenience.  Assume that ground 
system is located at (0,0,0) of the earth-fixed 
coordinate system, { , , }H H HE X Y Z  represents 
three axes along North, East and Upward.  The 
microcontroller calculates the output azimuth 
and elevation angle referring to Figure 3 with its 
output angle variation with respect to time t:  













1
111 tantan
t
t
t
t
Z X
Y
X
Y           (1)
  
 













2
1
2
1
11
22
1 tantan
tt
t
tt
t
Y
YX
Z
YX
Z      (2)
 
A mapping algorithm is established to 
convert the output angles into stepping motor 
pulses according the gear joint designs.  The 
ground mechanism control is hemisphere in this 
implementation by a predesigned flight route 
and standard operation procedure (SOP) for 
flight operation.  The servo control architecture 
is designed using STM32 Cortex-M3 
microcontroller as shown in Figure 4.  It 
receives UAV GPS and ADU data from 900MHz 
data down link and calculates the azimuth and 
elevation difference to determine an appropriate 
PWM output to drive servo motors.  
 
 
Fig. 4: Servo control firmware. 
 
2.2 Air-to-ground tracking 
   On airborne mechanism, the main problem is 
compensating the dynamic performance of UAV 
due to flight motion and turbulence. Because of 
unpredictable turbulence, UAV attitude may 
result in sudden change in longitudinal mode or 
high frequency change in short period mode.  
The controller plays an important role on 
collecting AHRS data and calculating the correct 
angle output in real-time to maintain airborne 
antennas aiming at ground station accurately. 
   The Sky-Net system tries to establish a 
mobile environment from UAV.  Mobile 
communication is relaying in 5.8 GHz 
microwave antenna.  This 5.8 GHz antenna can 
also be used as data link for UAV flight control, 
once the transmission link is made.  A 900 
MHz VHF communication module is used in the 
early stage of flight operation, and is switched 
into a redundant link.  With available data link, 
the UAV can downlink real-time GPS and ADU 
information to round station.  
control output.  To verify the tracking effect in 
the preliminary tests, a webcam is used to aim at 
the ground target from the airborne mechanism.   
 
 
Fig. 8: Ground tracking hardware. 
 
Fig. 9: Airborne tracking hardware. 
 
Both flat cruise and turn flight can obtain 
excellent results as shown in Figure 10.  The 
aiming precision satisfies the microwave antenna 
requirements. 
 
 
Fig. 10: Air-to-ground tracking tests in turning (above) and flat cruise (below) to the ground target. 
 
In the second phase, the microwave 
antenna is installed to transmit ping data to 
verify the transmission quality of the microwave 
antenna in Figure 11.  There is a significant 
effect at high flight altitude to receive better 
communication efficiency. Figure 12 shows the 
real-time Received Signal Strength Indication 
(RSSI) data of microwave transmission quality 
test. The red line on the bottom of graph means 
the minimum signal strength that is acceptable to 
eCell with reference of the blue line and green 
bar to show the past and current RSSI. Figure 13 
represents the result of E1 signal test, which 
shows the Bit Correct Rate (BCR) changing 
slightly with time and maintains its Bit Error 
Rate (BER) being less than 0.001% all the time. 
Similarly, result of ping data transmission test is 
verified by the percentage of package loss in the 
test period, as shown in Figure 14. Figures 12 to 
14 show the test results of RSSI, E1 and Ping 
國科會研究計畫 
出國開會及國外移地研究報告 
 
計畫編號：NSC100-2218-E006-012 
報告人：林清一教授 
 
參加會議：IEEE/AIAA ICNS通訊導航與監視技術會議 
會議時間：2012年 4月 24-26日，  
地點：美國華盛頓 DC Dulles 機場Westin Hotel 
順道訪問：Wright State University，4月 26-27日 
 
一、會議背景： 
國際民航組織(ICAO)、美國聯邦航空署(FAA)、歐洲航空聯盟
(Euro Control)及全世界各主要國家共同推動未來航空導航系統
(FANS)，已於 2010年 1月 1日式啟動，將全世界的航空系統帶入以
衛星為基礎的無間隙通訊、導航與監視以及自動飛航管理(CNS/ATM)
新的技術領域。然而技術日新月異，新的科技帶入新的發展應用，使
得如何在國家空域系統(NAS)的原始架構下來發展更先進的技術，有
極大的研發空間，更可以帶動未來的航空更加密集、更加安全。 
ICNS 的會議基礎以美國在 2005 年提出的下一代技術(Next Gen)
模糊的架構，經過多年來政府機構、研發機構、民航界、科技界、學
術界等多方面的通力合作，逐漸在幾項主題上有具體的共識，建立細
密的發展規劃，將未來的航空系統簡單的變成飛航安全(Safety)、營
運保安(Security)以及環境永續(Environment)的一個大系統。 
FAA所推動的Next Gen與歐盟所推動的 SESAR幾乎是一個系統
目標各自表述，有分有合，整體上還是在競爭下合作發展。 
 
二、會議內容 
參加本次會議主要在於第一天的引領 Next Gen 全球合作的研發
課題管理與組織，包含 Next Gen 的發展規劃、播式自動回報監視
(ADS-B)實施上的問題與解決方案、以飛航性能為基礎的導航系統
(PBN)如何搭配已經建立的 RNP如何共構、數據通訊(Data Comm)實
務上的問體解決方案、測試平台的建立、Next Gen航電技術的提升，
十一位演講者提出報告後帶動熱烈的討論。第二天上 Next Gen 與 
SESAR 全球和諧發展的全體議程，也是由十二位講員以歐盟系統規
劃架構為核心，探討全球性和諧整合的關鍵技術、導航自動化、氣象
自動化、新一代空中自動防撞系統(TCAS)技術的發展與整合。 
ACAS Xu = for separation of air transport aircraft to unmanned 
aircraft  
這四個內容都是我們可以切入的方向。 
因為研究技術的發展，我們所用的無人機系統有新的名詞
Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV), Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS), 以
及新的 Remotely-Piloted Aircraft (RPA)，將無人載具提升到飛進航路
高度的大型載具。 
FAA 及 ICAO 未來的研究發展調整成為三大目標主軸 Safety, 
Security and Environment.  當然降低油耗、節能檢碳、降低排煙污染
等，都是重點目標。 
在未來的兩個月內，我們團隊研究的方向將花主要時間來搜尋
FAA Next Gen 及 Euro Control SESAR 網站上相關的資料。
www.faa.gov/nextgen。討論如何調整研究方向及內容，以符合 Next 
Gen的範疇。 
 
四、移地研究訪問 
 本次開會後於 4月 26-27兩天，順道訪問位於 Ohio州 Dayton及
Cincinnati間的Wright State University機械與動力系兩位教授賴中生
教授及黃培嘉教授，主要討論遙控無人載具的飛行控制技術合作的研
究工作。兩校的位置相距不遠。賴教授團隊發展各種型式的節能載具，
並發展為實用的設計雛形。黃教授團隊成功的將四旋翼機構設計的輕
巧堅固，可以再不同的控制條件下去發展飛行特性。這次訪問晚賴教
授及黃教授的實驗室，瞭解兩個團隊所做的載具技術，並討論為來合
作的空間、互補模式、經費申請等。兩天的參觀訪問與討論，將以「多
架四旋翼無人載具的自動駕駛飛行控制與編隊飛行」為主題，作為兩
團隊合作發展的主題。賴教授的自主飛行技術可以引進來提昇我方
SkyNet計畫的自動駕駛需求。 
 
五、移地研究共同主題 
無人機系統 UAS 已經發展為多元的應用系統，自動駕駛的技術
昢和 GPS 的座標定位，可以達成精確的路徑規劃。賴教授及黃教授
在 UAS 技術上均極有經驗。此行主要參訪兩位教授的研究室及團隊
工作，啟發我方研究的一些構想。配合 ICNS會議所強調的為來航空
系統技術，無人機將進入有人機的飛行航道，使的無人系統與有人系
統間的安全問題，更嚴重的挑戰飛航安全。因此本次訪問研究，建立
共識，將在無人機的空中防撞技術(TCAS)上做深入的探討，以符合
國際飛航系統技術的發展趨勢。 
未來無人機的空中防撞系統將必須與現有民航機的空中防撞系
 
Congratulations! 
 
Dear Chin E. Lin, 
 
We are pleased to inform you that your abstract (No. 112, entitled "Flow Monitor 
for Heavy Traffic in Taipei Terminal Control Area" has been accepted for the 2012 
Integrated Communications, Navigation, and Surveillance (ICNS) Conference to
be held in Herndon, VA, April 24-26, 2012. Your participation will be an important 
contribution to this year’s conference. This letter provides details regarding the 
requirements for your presentation. If you choose to, you may also submit a full
paper for inclusion in the conference proceedings. 
         For those authors planning to submit full papers for the conference 
proceedings, the deadline is March 30, 2012. Please see the attached 
instructions included in this email. Due to IEEE publishing Content 
Guidelines, an IEEE copyright form must also be sent along with your 
paper. Please see the attached form included in this email. Please submit
this form by April 6, 2012 to Tony Rossetti, 3311 Dupree Ave., Orlando, 
FL 32806-3411, fax to 888-404-1846, or email to 
pub.editor@icnsonline.org 
For all presentations, the deadline is April 6, 2012. Below are the 
requirements for your submission:  
         Presentations are limited to 30 minutes each, including Q & A. 
Electronic submission in Microsoft PowerPoint or Adobe PDF is 
required. If you cannot meet the deadline, please bring CD or USB drive
to the registration desk. No Macintosh compatibility is available. 
Please check the website in late March or early April at http://i-cns.org/ for 
agenda updates so you are aware of your speaking time. 
 
The Conference Proceedings will be included in the IEEE Interactive Electronic 
Library (IEL) as part of IEEE Xplore. All authors who have been accepted must 
register for the conference by April 6, 2012 and attend the conference to present
  
 
touchdowns. The fundamental ATC rule demands 
that the leading aircraft leaves runway before the 
trailing aircraft enters beyond the threshold. The 
landed aircraft should exit to taxi way as quick as 
possible.  
A simple model is adopted to calculate the 
runway capacity with some assumptions under 
regular operation conditions including: (a) Assume 
an error-free approach, (b) Aircraft are delivered on 
scheduled time exactly, (c) Pilots maintains the 
specified separation and speed exactly, (d) All 
operation processes at airside of aerodrome are 
strictly consistent [19].  
The Flight Data Processor (FDP) displays 
aircraft type from flight plans including all flight 
information.  In general, FDP records accurate and 
dependable flight time operation at each reference 
point in statistics.  The TCA flow can be 
forecasted from daily FDP to trace all arrival and 
departure flights into TCA.  Since FDP is quite 
different from the real flight from Radar Data 
Processor (RDP), a flow monitor using FDP can be 
proposed to check the possible flow within the next 
30 to 60 minutes to forecast any congestion and 
alert possible conflicts.  
This paper proposes the use of FDP 
information to design a flow monitor to forecast the 
upcoming flight condition for Taipei TCA.  
 
Flow Problem of Study 
In Taipei TCA, there are two major airports, 
Taoyuan International Airport (TPE) and 
Taipei/Songshan International Airport (TSA) that 
accept most traffic, including domestic, 
international and cross-strait flights. TPE has two 
parallel runways for most international and 
cross-strait flights; while TSA has only single 
runway for all domestic flights and some 
international and cross-strait flights.  Due to the 
political situation changes more friendly between 
China and Taiwan, the cross strait flight service has 
rapid growth into very popular. There are more than 
150 cross-strait flights, 500 international flights and 
250 domestic flights operating TPE and TSA.   
 
Airspace in Taipei TCA 
The rapid increase in cross strait flights to 
TPE and TSA has become potential threat of 
another high flow density in Taipei TCA since 1998.  
The cross strait flights are separated by northern 
route and southern route into Taipei TCA as shown 
in Figure 1. 
A large number of flights make a complex 
operation in this airspace. In this region, ATC 
service is provided to all aircraft and any separation 
as well as traffic advisories.  The distance of these 
two airports is barely 17 NM laterally to 05/23 
Runway in TPE and 10/28 Runway in TSA.  Their 
airspaces are overlapping by 05 Runway and 10 
Runway to each other.  Heavy flow directly 
impacts the approach procedure of two aerodromes, 
especially for those cross strait flights from north 
route.  
 
Figure 1. Taipei TCA with TPE and TSA. 
 
Figure 2 shows the approach route to TPE and 
TSA.  In general, aircraft enter Taipei TCA from 
metering fixes as HLG, WADER, GRACE, 
ANNNA, BAKER, CAROL to approach fix and 
proceed to landing in 7~9 minutes. 
TSA accepts the flights from CAROL, 
BAKER, HLG, and WADER.  These four 
metering fix and their correlative airways are W2, 
B576, W4, and B591, respectively.  Most arrival 
aircraft (about 98%) merge at LK final approach fix 
(FAF) that is at 6 NM to Runway 10 landing.  LK 
FAF (N25°04’28” E121°25’28”) is the last point to 
queue the arrival flights.  
Similarly in TPE, the main traffic is 
constructed by international flow mostly using 
airway A1, B576 and B595 from northeast and 
southwest for those aircraft passing through the 
feeder fixes such as ANNNA, HLG, BAKER, 
GRACE, and HLG.  The flow merges at the initial 
point off the coast.  Because of the parallel runway, 
arrival aircraft needs to target the corresponding 
FAFs and proceed to landing at Runways 05 and 06.  
The primary flow enters from A1 Airway and mixes 
with the southern flow of traffic in the opposite 
direction at JAMMY (N24°55’08” E120°51’09”).  
By adding the departure path, it can be seen 
that the northern approach flow from W2 has to 
avoid the conflict of departure aircraft from TPE.  
W2 flights may detour to Keelung and enter 
approach routes from south to TSA or TPE as 
shown in Figure 2 
Taipei TCA 
In Taipei FIR, the airspace is restricted by the 
narrow topography. There are ten airports in such 
small area and the airspace divides into two sectors 
and five terminal control areas.  How to maintain 
the regular traffic flow and relationship between 
airports is always the focus point.  
In 1992-2002, the prosperity of domestic 
flights caused the heavy air traffic and the mostly 
congested region is in Taipei and Kaohsiung 
airports whose demand had been exceed rapidly [2]. 
Thus, the amount of researches began to solve this 
problem from different aspects and kind of methods 
such as approach sequence, detour, or flow 
management system construction [8, 9].  The 
domestic flight times are as short as less than 60 
minutes.  Due to short flight time, the airport 
capacity is influenced heavily by factors of weather 
and human so that the traffic flow control is 
urgently necessary.  The ground holding policy is 
preferable than others. It needs to consider the 
relationship between departure and arrival airports 
that using the Ground Holding to balance air flow.   
By approach sequence, the estimated of 
arrival time (ETA) is known by the flight schedule 
and the probability of occurring the congestion can 
be forecasted. While TSA was the busiest airport, 
ATC adjusted the cruise speed before aircraft 
entering TCA or implement Ground Holding policy 
at departure airport.  This method was helpful to 
release the congested situation near TSA and 
effective manage the heavy traffic flow from south 
(Kaohsiung) [2].   
In the other way, because of the limited 
airspace in Taipei TCA, the setting arrival and 
departure routes influence each other.  The change 
of the approach procedure or the planning of 
flexible routes based on the aircraft trajectories in 
TCA can effectively improve the airspace 
congestion and flight delays.  With the flexible 
routes, ATC can guide the aircraft smoothly and 
change the routes to satisfy the traffic condition.  
This way can increase 20% air traffic capacity, and 
the flight holding time is also reduced 30% [7]. 
The better-off relationship between Taiwan 
and China leads significant demand of cross-strait 
services. The factors to influence air traffic flow in 
Taipei TCA from all aspects about cross-strait 
flights are compared with some previous research 
about domestic traffic flow.  
 
Methodology for Flow Monitor 
TSA and TPE are two airports in the capital 
metropolitan.  Both are important to flight 
connections. In Taipei TCA, they must be 
performed with mix operation of arrival and 
departure considering the basic factors of: (a) 
Distance from FAF to runway threshold; (b) Ratio 
of aircraft categories for different landing speed; (c) 
Probability of arrival and departure operation; (d) 
RNP separation minimum. 
For the mixed operations, four operating rules 
are applied [10]: (a) The arrivals are given higher 
priority over departures. (b) Only one aircraft can 
occupy the runway at any time. (c) A departure may 
not be released if the subsequent arrival is less than 
a specified distance from the runway threshold, 
usually 3 NM of RNP 0.5 in IFR conditions. (d) 
Successive departures are spaced at a minimum 
time separation equal to the departure service time.  
In order to solve ATC problems, a system for 
automated management and control of TCA was 
developed from collaboration of NASA and FAA 
and be comprise by several advisories including 
Traffic Management Advisor (TMA), the Descent 
Advisor (DA), and Final Approach Spacing Tool 
(FAST) [11].  
FAST is used in TCA that encompasses the 
airspace within 40 NM below 10,000 feet altitude 
in major airports.  FAST is used to optimize traffic 
flow to runway to minimize delay and increase 
throughput. The TCA controllers use this decision 
support tool to arrange an efficient landing 
sequence, approach separation, and runway 
assignments for arrival aircraft. 
The concept of FAST determines the landing 
sequence of aircraft in consist of both ordering the 
aircraft on each flight segment and repeatedly 
merging these aircraft into a consistent final 
sequence at the runway threshold. Then the 
departure aircraft are added into the landing 
sequence including single airport departures and 
two influent airports departures. 
 
RNP Separation  
The aircraft separation is constrained by the 
Required Navigation Performance (RNP) of the 
operating flight altitude from En Route to TCA 
until landing.  From descending into approach 
process, aircraft are merging from different airways 
through metering fix (MF), initial approach fix 
(IAF) and final approach fix (FAF) into glide slope.  
The concept of airway merge is shown in Figure 3.   
Assuming Tsep represents the longitudinal 
separation for two aircraft (k and k-1), the 
following aircraft (k) should maintain proper 
separation to the preceding aircraft (k-1) by: 
ΔTsep ≥ TRNP, for ΔTsep = ΔT = Tk - Tk-1.     (1) 
the landing time by 60 minutes in advance.  Flow 
monitor should be checked iteratively every 30 
seconds at the FAF, and all sequence should meet 
sufficient separation from different RNPs.  
In the proposed flow monitor system, the 
operation cross check time is 60~90 minutes in 
advance. For example, it is 6:00 at present and the 
system sequence the flights arrival metering fix at 
the time 7:00~7:30 and departure flights at the 
same time. It allows sufficient time for controllers 
to respond ATC procedures. 
 
Resolution 
For general methods to control traffic flow for 
different applications, the constraints are related to 
the most efficient to consort Taipei TCA for (1) 
very limited airspace of short distance from 
metering fix to landing; (2) many excessive routes 
at ANBU for large amount of transition aircraft 
from all direction airways to intersect into this 
airspace. 
Therefore, in the case of resolution for 
sequence, detour or holding are not generally 
applied, unless ATC intervened instantly. There are 
resolution methods in the proposed flow monitor 
for arrival and departure to increase ATC efficiency 
during heavy traffic as: (1) Ground holding to all 
departing aircraft within 20 minutes; (2) Speed 
control to cruise aircraft to resolve the conflicts.   
ICAO air traffic management DOC 4444 
indicates the horizontal speed control instructions.  
In order to establish a desired spacing between two 
or more successive aircraft, the controller should 
first either reduces the speed of the tailing aircraft, 
or increase the speed of the leading aircraft, then 
adjust the speed of the other aircraft in order. 
 
Flow Monitor for Taipei TCA 
In 1990s till 2002, TSA had suffered for high 
domestic flow into single runway.  At that time, 
TSA operated more than 600 daily flights, and 53 in 
the peak hours.  The domestic flights flowed 60% 
from southern and western Taiwan using W4, 30% 
from eastern Taiwan using R591, and 10% from 
offshore islands using W6 and W2. All flights 
merged into LK as FAF.  
After the cross strait regular flights between 
China-Taiwan are open to normal operation in 2008, 
flights increase to meet market demands. However, 
the newly scheduled regular cross strait flights are 
diverged into two airports of TPE and TSA.  
Although TSA accepts less operation than before, 
but the recent flow brings new problem in Taipei 
TCA due to the overlapping airspace of TPE and 
TSA.  The future cross strait flights will distribute 
almost 40% of total operation to these two airports.  
Taipei TCA suffers peak flow in some time zone.  
The runways are both to service arrival and 
departure aircraft in TPE and TSA. According to 
the statistics of aircraft operations, the proportion of 
operating aircraft in TPE is Heavy/Large for 
60%/40%, and in TSA is Large/Small for 76%/24%. 
The common approach path from FAF to runway 
threshold is about 7 NM.  Serving types of aircraft 
with the mix and operating characteristics are 
important factors to calculate runway capacity. 
The heavy aircraft is the frequently used in 
TPE because of international flights and the 
approach speed is 141~165 knots.  In TSA, the 
common-used type is the mix of small and large 
that landing speed are 91~120 and 121~140 knots, 
respectively. But actually, the speed at FAF is faster 
than approach speed about 10~20 knots.  
Different landing speed results in different 
minimum separations in departure and arrival 
operations for ATC.  Generally, it is divided into 
four operational sequence types as arrival-departure, 
arrival-arrival, departure-arrival, and 
departure-departure with different separation rules 
in Table 1. 
 
Table 1. RNP separation in Taipei TCA. 
 
Facing to the upcoming development, the 
flow monitor estimates Taipei TCA traffic flow and 
establishes sequence step for approaches and 
departures. In the beginning, the database is 
constructed from regular FDP in SAR of two 
airports.  The time at any point or any route will 
be able to estimate from regular flight schedule. 
According to specified factors of Taipei TCA, a 
range is set for surveillance and conflict detection.  
The resolution of congestion is applied with several 
simple and effective methods for time adjustment.  
Consequently, it can also be used to increase the 
airport capability in normal condition. 
Figure 5 shows a proposed research flow chart 
as the traffic flow monitor for Taipei TCA. The 
proposed approach sequencing is aimed at 60 
minutes in advance to LK.  This idea will allow 
E120°51’09”).  In TSA, the arriving aircraft gather 
at final approach fix LK (N25°04’28” E121°25’28”) 
from three directions.  JAMMY and LK are 
defined as the FAF, respectively, for sequencing 
check.  According to AIP, to merge at JAMMY, 
aircraft speed is 180~200 knots at 4000 feet and 27 
NM to touchdown. To merge at LK, the aircraft 
speed is 150~170 knots at 2000 feet and 3.5 NM to 
touchdown.  The speed and altitude of these two 
reference points would be regulated strictly from 
regulation because that ensures the safety of 
landing.   
 
 
 
(a) TPE (RCTP) 
 
(b) TSA(RCSS) 
Figure 6. Fixed Approach Path of TPE and TSA. 
 
The sequence would be completed between 
metering fix and FAF and all arriving aircraft will 
land in orders.  The distances between metering 
fix to FAF can be calculated and the flight time is 
estimated relating to aircraft speed that influence by 
type of aircraft.  Taipei TCA information is shown 
in Table 3. Generally, the approaching flight speed 
on each approach route is fixed.  Then, the flight 
time for each path is calculated and the completed 
sequence will be estimated with more precise time 
to landing at every reference point by SAR.  
 
Table 3. Distance and Speed of Metering Fix.  
 
Therefore, in order to reduce the probability 
of conflict in TCA, the sequence about each airway 
will be executed as far as possible out of TCA.  
The approach queuing will be completed before 
aircraft passing through the metering fix. In 
additional, the interval between aircraft should be 
exactly and strictly controlled, and is usually larger 
than minimum requirement separation for ATC. 
The estimated of departure aircraft are maintained 
in schedule.  Because the departure flight cannot 
be shifted earlier, it will be released when suitable 
gaps occur in the arrival stream.  
 
Sequencing 
The operation of flow monitor allocates all 
taken-off aircraft to TPE and TSA into a Microsoft 
Excel table at least 60 minutes in advance to ETA 
referring to Table 3.  The departing aerodrome 
will report the take-off time and mark into the Flow 
Monitor.  By an execution update, all the arriving 
aircraft will be queued according to its ETA from 
SAR FDP revision.  
  
Resolution 
Referring to Equation (1) and Equation (2), if 
the TCA is forecasted to suffer flow congestion and 
separation violation. The speed adjustment should 
be applied by ATC intervention to enlarge the 
separation minimum according the RNP 
specification in that particular airway. The 
adjustable range for smaller aircraft is less than 
larger aircraft, and the time for reaching to goal 
speed is longer than larger aircraft. Speed 
adjustments should be expressed in multiples of 10 
knots based on indicated airspeed at levels below 
FL 250 [4]. The recommended speed control is 
limited to +/- 10 knots to obtain the possible flight 
adjustment constraint. By considering most jet 
aircraft in cruise flight, Table 4 indicates the 
The sequencing process begins with the top boxes, 
and the final merge at bottom of the tree is the 
overall sequence to runway.  The approach 
sequence steps are shown in Figure 7 to TPE.  
 
(1) First Step 
Because approach paths via BAKER and 
TNN of two airports are overlapping, the first route 
ordering makes sufficient distance that ensures 
arriving aircraft to maintain 40 seconds in 
separation.  
The initial ordering in airway B576 is: 
 
The separation between AIRCRAFT “b” and 
AIRCRAFT “A” is insufficient. Because there is 
larger distance between the first AIRCRAFT “B” 
and the second AIRCRAFT “A”, the ordering can 
change by adjust the speed of AIRCRAFT “a” and 
“b” to enlarge up to 21 seconds and the AIRCRAFT 
“A” maintains its original speed. 
Their orders are changed to: 
 
The constraints of leading and following aircraft 
should be considered in ordering sequence to apply 
possible change as smallest as possible for adequate 
separation. As shown in Figure 7, the dashed box at 
right hand side is the divided flights, AIRCRAFT “f” 
of other airport through the same metering fix 
TNN.  
The same situation took place on flight through 
TNN approach path.  
 
(2) Second Step 
At the left side box of TPE sequence, northern 
air traffic flow through BAKER and ANNNA 
metering fix merges LONG segment and their 
original queue is:  
 
The separation between the second AIRCRAFT “A” 
and the third AIRCRAFT “C” is insufficient.  RNP 
separation requires 40 seconds minimum, but there 
is a slot of 4.28 NM to allow a flexible time about 
21 seconds to adjust. This sufficient space allows 
AIRCRAFT “A” to speed up 10 knots and make 
faster about 29 seconds.  
 
In the other side, southern flow through TONGA 
and TNN have about 97 s of adjusted time.  
 
(3) Third Step 
In FINAL segment, the flows from all 
direction merge at last reference points that means 
final sequence would be completed at this segment. 
Because of longer distance in south, it should adjust 
the aircraft on BASE segment.  As long as the 
sequence has determined, then adjustment should 
match northern sequence. The example six aircraft 
merge into order becomes:  
 
This is the final sequence of arrival aircraft in this 
time period.  The last step will consider for the 
departure aircraft and also to all low altitude flight 
conflicts. 
 
(4) Fourth Step 
In this step, the landing time will be 
calculated by finishing ETL, that final sequence is 
estimated considering the available departure time. 
The main adjustment would focus on the allowable 
departure time slots for runway safety.  Hereby the 
departure aircraft from TPE should notice the low 
altitude conflict with arrival aircraft through 
CAROL metering fix.  It influences the second 
step in each path ordering and merging with other 
segments.   
Figure 8 shows in middle box AIRCRAFT “c” 
arriving to CAROL at 07:01:35 and ETL is 
07:11:17.  But after about 5 minutes, the departing 
AIRCRAFT “D0” is close to the conflict point.  
AIRCRAFT “C” needs to delay about 22 seconds 
to avoid conflict.  Finally, the completed sequence 
for TPE and TSA is presented in Table 9 and Table 
10, respectively. 
The time alterations are defined by subtracting 
the ETL from the actual landing time. The delay 
has been absorbed by ground holding of departures 
or lower speed in cruising to replace the airborne 
holding with high fuel cost and high safety concern. 
The above sequencing process as a part of 
flight schedule is demonstrated. There are various 
cases that can make diversification of the proposed 
sequence method for the TCA flow monitor. 
Therefore, great amount of flight schedules can be 
operated via the corresponding formula to 
consummate prediction of approach sequence. 
 
 
 
 
and TSA flight plans from FDP in 
November 2010, the proposed concept of 
flow by “random in sequence out” from all 
different directions of arrivals. To maintain 
flight safety, minimum separation should 
always meet the distance or time 
requirements. The proposed flow monitor 
will provide an effective method to predict 
flows of potential congestion and also to 
figure out the resolution so that ATC can 
give order to queue the approach sequence 
in next 40~60 minutes. 
 
 
Figure 8. Trajectory Segment Tree of TSA Approach Sequence. 
 
Several reference points in approach 
paths are setting for predicting the estimated 
time including four metering fix and FAF as 
the last sequence check point for each 
airport. Arrival aircraft are adjusted their 
sequence during this interval that also 
conform the assumed separation for 40 
seconds. The sequence is based on reaching 
estimated time of those reference points to 
calculate the speed and flight level.  After 
the completion, flights passing FAF should 
be strictly queued and will not change until 
touchdown.  When the landing sequence 
and time is calculated, the departure flights 
can be inserted into the slot gaps by 
considering low altitude conflict in Taipei 
TCA.  The propose flow monitor is 
continuously examining conflicts and 
repeats sequence until flights within this 
time slot can all operate validly for landing 
or taking-off.  In the sequencing process, 
the use of Microsoft Excel offers flexible 
and efficient means to adjust flights. When 
air traffic flow is increasing, least delay for 
maximum airport capability is expected. 
The factors taken into consideration in 
this paper are much simpler from the real 
situation. More details about terminal 
airspace, runway capacity, airport vicinity 
and weather are added into traffic flow 
sequence. In future FANS, separation 
minimum will be reduced from RNP 0.5 (3 
NM) to RNP 0.3 (1.2 NM) as longitudinal 
separation for 40 seconds to allow 
optimized routing from en-route to terminal 
airspace. The case study considered 
relatively simple as compared to the existing 
problems in real flight schedule from the 
SAR FDP. Since RDP is not available, 
estimate time by updating the take-off time 
國科會研究計畫 
出國開會報告 
 
計畫編號：NSC100-2218-E006-012 
報告人：林清一教授 
 
參加會議：第五屆國際感測技術會議 
(International Conference on Sensing Technology) 
會議時間：2011年 11月 28 日- 12月 1日，  
地點：紐西蘭 北帕莫司頓(Palmerstone North) Massey University 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
本次會議帶著博士班研究生黃映齊同行參加。於 11/27 下午搭乘
班機至位於紐西蘭北帕默斯頓Massey Uni.參加 ICST2011。沿途在香
港、奧克蘭轉機經過約22小時的航程與轉機時間，在紐西蘭時間11/28
下午抵達會議會場報到。 本國際研討會議自 2008 年於成功大學電
機系創辦以來，已經逐漸成為感測技術與應用上的重要會議。本次會
議的重點在於感測技術的根本性突破，以及新的應用，例如感測元件
利用光纖取代傳統電阻，以獲得更精準與便利性的製造。 
研討會內會程很多平行議程，僅能選擇部分與團隊研究相關的感
測技術應用課題聽講，並與映齊君分頭聽講，以獲得更多研究參考的
內容。學生選擇了有關 MEMS 感測元件的議題去探討，我則在應用
技術的研發。 
因應各國社會的老人化問題逐漸趨於嚴重，在醫療方面的應用、
老人照顧、生技感測等，都被定位為感測技術明日發展的目標。本次
會議兩個有趣的議程討論紐西蘭、印度、日本、韓國、馬來西亞、德
國、比利時等國在醫療與照護方面的技術，引用的科技與發展的領域
都是當今迫切的需求。感測數據都與無限通訊結合為一個系統實體，
更與網路連結，甚至於雲端系統，讓數據的傳遞或擴散運用更為快速、
廣大與便利。因此，似乎也凸顯了未來的科技都將與各種不同的無線
通訊有不圖程度的關連。 
醫療感測方面，非侵入式的生命指標監控方式，對於老人醫療與
照顧部分有著很大的啟發性。 
我們所提出的論文報告，題目為：Airborne Antenna Tracking for 
Sky-Net Communication，主要是應用於行動空網計畫內的天線追蹤對
焦技術。場次主席 Dr. Azam Ali與 Dr. M. J. Haji-Sheikh對於映齊君所
報告的系統架構深感興趣，且來自美國 NLST的 Prof. N.G. Paulter對
兩天與 Dr. Kar Stol探討了利用雷射光束的反射波段變化，利用光
譜的偏移去推算出精準的物理量變化。此外，在 12/4 與 12/5 我
們拜訪了 Dr Kean Aw並對他正在進行的醫療工程方面機械化自
動控制的應用做了討論，其中應用於手術且具備兩個自由度
(2DOF)的機械手臂的研發令學生獲益良多，因為此種用途的手臂
在機構設計上以趨向成熟，但是要在應用上符合相關限制的精確
度是自動控制上一大技術考驗。 
 
五、 建議 
這次的研討會帶博士班研究生同行，師生在參與會議及諮詢討論
中獲得相當好的互動經驗，讓博士班學生在研究領域廣度與深度提升
到了另一個層級，這對在台灣一路升學上來的學子是一個很難能可會
的機會。除了會議中的記事外，順道訪問奧克蘭大學的研究成就，印
象深刻。 
 
  
======= Review 1 ======= 
> *** Guidance for Authors: Please describe in detail main paper contributions, 
positive aspects, observed deficiencies, and suggestions on how to improve them: 
Please, check some typos in the papers and arrange some sentences that are too 
long. 
> *** Originality: How would you rate the originality of the paper? Strong Accept (6) 
> *** Significance of Topic: Is this topic significant to ICST 2010?    Accept (5) 
> *** Technical Quality: How would you rate the technical quality of this paper?   
Accept (5) 
> *** Presentation: How would you rate the presentation of this paper? Accept (5) 
> *** Overall Rating: Do you recommend acceptance or rejection? Accept (5) 
 
 
======= Review 2 ======= 
> *** Guidance for Authors: Please describe in detail main paper contributions, 
positive aspects, observed deficiencies, and suggestions on how to improve them: 
The paper is well‐organized and well‐written. 
Since airborne antenna tracking is an active field of research I am wondering that the 
proposed references are of 2005 and older. Please provide the current state of the 
art. 
The obtained results and limits of the approach should be clearly quantified and 
benchmarked to the state of the art. 
 
> *** Originality: How would you rate the originality of the paper? Weak Accept (4) 
> *** Significance of Topic: Is this topic significant to ICST 2010? Accept (5)   
> *** Technical Quality: How would you rate the technical quality of this paper?   
Weak Accept (4) 
> *** Presentation: How would you rate the presentation of this paper? Neutral (3) 
> *** Overall Rating: Do you recommend acceptance or rejection?    Accept (5) 
 
airborne needs servo mechanisms to control their 
LOS alignment for transmission.   
The goal of this servo control mechanism is 
focused on building a reliable two-way antenna 
tracking system to provide high quality 
microwave data link with accurate tracking and 
alignment. 
The factor to affect the quality of service 
(QoS) for microwave transmission depends on 
LOS performance between two antennas, i.e., 
the UAV and the ground station, as well as the 
antenna gains on both sides.  According to [1, 
2], received signal strength 
rP (dBm) can be 
described as below: 
20log( ) 20log( ) 32.44r t r tP P G G r f         (1) 
where Pr represents the power of receiver in 
dBm, f represents transmitting frequency in MHz, 
Gr and Gt are antenna gains of receiver and 
transmitter, and a constant 32.44 known as 
energy lose due to space transmitting, r 
represents the distance between them.  As LOS 
distance r between two ends increases, the signal 
energy loses drastically in logarithm function. 
Signal strength increases if the antenna gain 
increases. 
Instead of directional antenna, wireless 
system prefers high gain omni-directional 
antenna to transmit higher power for long 
distance communication to maintain required 
QoS.  This is not efficient at all from 
engineering viewpoint.  By introducing an 
antenna tracking control using directional 
antennas, most transmitting power can be 
focused onto the receiving end for better 
performance. 
From literatures, most tracking systems 
were developed based on the determination of 
signal strength gradient to search for the optimal 
elevation angle and azimuth angle between two 
antennas. Jonas and Fredrik [3] built a 
ground-to-air tracking system using micro- 
controller PIC16F877 to calculate appropriate 
azimuth and elevation angle to aim at UAV for 
continuous 2.4 GHz transmission tracking.  It’s 
a simple and efficient way of target tracking 
without considering vehicle attitudes.  
Conversely, the most difficult part of 
air-to-ground applications is aiming at the 
ground target from the UAV.  Since the flying 
UAV is dynamically changing its attitude, the 
control algorithm should refer to airborne 
attitude heading reference system (AHRS) and 
air data unit (ADU) into detail account. In, 
AHRS, ADU and GPS are major sensor 
feedbacks to determine servo controls in real 
time. 
For sensor feedback servo control, real time 
data acquisition and solution algorithm are 
implemented on microprocessors to simplify the 
system architecture. Referring to UAV flight 
performance, AHRS outputs a series of sensor 
data simultaneously.  Coordinate conversion 
from body coordinate to earth coordinate should 
be completed to determine the servo mechanism 
control. Euler function computation should be 
accounted.  A servo mechanism by properly 
choosing driver onto structure design is a merit 
toward the task.  Sensor feedback in 
conjunction to servo mechanism accuracy should 
be calculated and integrated.  
This paper proposes the design and 
implementation work to accomplish both 
ground-to-air tracking system as well as 
air-to-ground tracking system to maintain long 
haul antenna alignment for LOS microwave 
communication.  System integration by design 
considerations is described with some major 
verification for further applications in Sky-Net 
operation.   
 
2. 2. System Configuration and Algorithm  
In Sky-Net Project, the first proposal was 
focused on using a repeater for communication 
relay on UAV. A pair of antennas is installed 
airborne as a donor antenna to connect signal 
from ground BTS and the other as service 
antenna to provide GSM signal to user’s mobile 
stations (MS). However, both donor and service 
antennas are operating on the same wireless 
frequency, the estimated isolation falls within 60 
dB to allow the maximum gain of repeater drop 
to 45 dB on the useful UAV wingspan. This 
would not accomplish minimum efficiency for 
-115 dB only.  
To avoid signal interference problem from 
isolation, an eCell is modified and proposed on 
airborne. The donor end is replaced by 5.8GHz 
microwave communication and the service end 
is maintained using 877~986 MHz for GSM 
mobile frequency as shown in Figure 2.  
 
 
Fig. 2: Sky-Net backbone system configuration. 
 
The new problem turns out that the 
microwave propagation needs accurate antenna 
alignment. To meet the antenna alignment 
requirement, antenna tracking becomes the most 
 
Fig. 5: UAV body frame to ground frame. 
 
From Figure 5, the UAV body axis unit 
vector is termed as:  , ,e e e eX Y Z    .  There is a 
displacement vector on the actual antenna 
installation to UAV and to ground antenna, for  
_Pt body

 represents the position and angle 
relative to UAV center of gravity (CG), and 
_Pt E

 represents the position vector from UAV 
to ground.  By coordinate transformation using 
rotation matrix [7], the microcontroller 
calculates the position vector representing in 
UAV coordinate by [ , , ]P X Y Zbody B B B

.   
C C S C SX XB H
Y S S C S C S S S C C C S YB H
Z ZS C C S S S S C S C C CB H
    
           
           
                            
   
(3) 
Assume a new coordinate system and its origin 
being located at an intersecting point of Y-axis 
and X-axis of airborne mechanism, 
[ , , ]P X Y Zbody B B B

 can be transformed into 
airborne mechanism coordinate[ , , ]t t tx y z . 
1 2 2 1 2
01 1
1 2 1 2 2
X C C C S S Xt B
Y S C Yt B
ZZ C S S S C Bt
    
 
    
                              
    (4) 
Because the Z-axis of airborne mechanism is 
refer to the direction of antenna, when the 
antenna is aiming at the target, the coordinate of 
target in airborne mechanism coordinate should 
be changed from [ , , ]t t tx y z  to [0,0, ]tz .  The 
output angle to compensate UAV attitude can be 
formulated into two axis forms as: 
1
11
1 tantan

 








B
B
B
B
X
Y
X
Y       (5)                     
1
2
22
1
2
22
1
2 tantan





 


 


B
bB
B
bB
Z
YX
Z
YX   (6) 
∆θ1 and ∆θ2 are two mechanism outputs for the 
servo system. Both angles are mapping into 
stepping motor steps by a calibrated initial 
position and avoid motor dead angle region.  
The control law in the microcontroller is 
designed in 5Hz control rate to achieve real-time 
tracking. After microcontroller is initialized, 
main program changes data information in every 
200ms. To reduce the burden of CPU, Direct 
Memory Access (DMA) is used to collect data 
from interfaces of AHRS, GPS and barometer. 
 
 
Fig. 6: Airborne servo control flow chart. 
 
3. 3. Verifications and Discussion 
The proposed antenna tracking system has 
been designed and built to ground unit and 
airborne unit.  Since the installation on to UAV 
has some difficulties in the developing phase, 
JJ2071 Ultra-Light Aircraft (ULA), as Figure 7, 
is used as flight vehicle to carry antenna 
facilities for preliminary tests.  The flight test is 
carried at a ULA Airfield at Southern Taiwan 
(22°45'24.21"N, 120°37'26.81"E). JJ2071 has 
installed with wireless communication module 
and tested from 300feet to 1000 feet above 
ground level (AGL) over 1~5km LOS distance.  
 
Fig. 7: ULA JJ2071 for flight tests. 
 
The servo tracking hardware is built for 
ground as well as for airborne.  Figure 8 shows 
the ground unit for test at fixed position in the 
ULA Airfield.  Figure 9 shows the airborne unit 
carrying on JJ2071 for flight tests.  GPS and 
AHRS is installed on JJ2071 as well to generate 
appropriate ULA data for control assessment.  
From test record and analysis, the ground 
tracking results excellent effect. As ULA is 
flying over the airspace, the tracking error on 
azimuth and elevation angle is less than 0.01°.  
During the flight tests, the high frequency AHRS 
changes on ULA are observed to assess the servo 
data quality of microwave bridge and 
transmission efficiency has achieved far above 
acceptable requirements in the Chung Hua 
Telecommunication (CHT) system.  The effect 
of 5.8GHz microwave antenna tracking appears 
a very satisfactory result to further eCell system 
mobile relaying tests. 
 
Fig. 11: Ping test. 
 
Fig. 12: Transmission signal strength. 
 
Fig. 13: Transmission data error rate. 
 
Fig. 14: Transmission quality. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 4. Conclusion 
In this paper, the antenna tracking servo 
control system is designed and built for airborne 
to ground two way precision alignments with 
successful flight tests. GPS, AHRS and ADU 
data are collected and sent to ground unit and 
airborne unit for control solution assessment. 
The servo control mechanism is designed with 
appropriate firmware for control decision.  The 
overall effect is verified with series of flight tests.  
The preliminary test using webcam and the 
second phase test using transmitting ping data 
are both successful to accomplish the target of 
precision and efficiency.  This result leads to 
next phase in the eCell mobile relaying 
communication for Sky-Net System 
implementation and applications.    
 
Acknowledgement: This work is supported 
from National Science Council for Sky-Net 
Development Project under contract  
NSC99-2218-E006-239. 
  
5. References 
[1] “Electronic Warfare and Radar Systems 
Engineering Handbook”, Naval Air Systems 
Command, Air-4.5, Ew Class Desk, 
Washington, D.C.  
[2] J. J. Carr, “Practical Antenna Handbook”, 
McGraw-Hill, Fourth Edition. 
[3]  G. Jonas, H. Fredrik, “UAV Tracking 
Device using 2.4GHz Video Transmitter”, 
M.S, Department of Computer Science and 
Electrical Engineering, Lulea University of 
Technology,  2005, ISSN 1402-1617.  
[4]  V. R. Dhuler, M. Walters, R. Mahadevan,  
A. B. Cowen, K. W. Markus, “A Novel Two 
Axis Actuator For High Speed Large 
Angular Rotation”, International Conference 
on Solid-State and Actuators, Chicago, June 
1997, pp. 327-330. 
[5]  P. Roth, A. Georgiev, H. Boudinov, “Cheap 
two axis sun following device”, Energy 
Conversion and Management 46, 2005, pp. 
1179-1192. 
[6]  F. J. Lin, P. H. Shen, “Robust Fuzzy Neural 
Network Sliding-Mode Control for 
Two-Axis Motion Control System”, IEEE 
Transactions on Industrial Electronics, 
Vol.53, No. 4, August 2006, pp.1209-1225. 
[7]  T. R. Kane, P. W. Likins, D. A. Levinson, 
“Spacecraft Dynamics”, McGraw-Hill Book 
Company, ISBN 0-07-037843-6. 
 
展，也帶來許多經驗的分享，可以用於改進我們在 5.8GHz微波通訊
上的一些瓶頸問題。 
 
三、 帶回資料 
本次會議帶回會議論文集 CD，其中有幾篇 OFDM應用技術相當
值得派上行動空網計畫的研究需求。另外收集幾項電磁技術研究院的
先進研發工作與成果，用來印證國內研發技術的先進程度。 
  
  
ADVANCED ELECTROMAGNETICS SYMPOSIUM, AES 2012, 16 – 19 APRIL 2012, PARIS - FRANCE 
  
An Electromagnetic Suspension Platform for  
Position and Tracking Control Verification 
 
Chin E. Lin*        Wei-Cheng Huang 
 
Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan 
* e-mail: chinelin@mail.ncku.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract 
A hybrid electromagnetic suspension platform using four 
actuators is built for ball and plate demonstration.  Position 
and tracking control by applying an improved Fuzzy Logic 
Control is implemented in the proposed system.  The hybrid 
electromagnetic suspension (EMS) actuator is designed with 
a permanent magnet and an electromagnetic (EM) coil with 
iron core.  Their interaction between permanent magnet and 
PWM current controlled EM constructs the 2D motion 
performance of plate to a ball.  In this paper, the 
mathematical model of the ball and plate system is derived 
through the Euler-Lagrange equation.  An improved Fuzzy 
Logic Control (FLC) law is developed following a human 
experience-based on the traditional FLC law and a directed 
control law.  This enhanced FLC law can significantly 
reduce overshoot and settling time than traditional FLC.  
The control circuit is designed and fabricated on a 
microprocessor as the control kernel using a commercial 
touch panel for position feedback.  A microprocessor closed 
loop circuit outputs PWM signal through the enhanced 
Fuzzy logic control and settles the plate to the required 
performance.  In this paper, the position and tracking control 
of a ball on the plate is tested through four hybrid EMS 
actuators.  System performance is demonstrated with 
excellent results.  
 
Keywords: Hybrid Electromagnetic Suspension (EMS) 
Actuator, Ball and Plate System, Fuzzy Logic Control, 
Sensor Feedback. 
 
1. Introduction 
New advanced and well-developed system technologies 
dominate world industry into a modern trend.  Mechanical 
equipment is still relatively fundamental to most industries 
but requires higher precision and better performance.  The 
traditional precision machines are cooperated with other 
mechanisms to reach the anticipated system performance 
quality.  Several practical problems confronted with 
machine, such as friction, vibration, noise, heat, and etc.  To 
overcome the above mentioned problems, the system can be 
improved by its machining precision, or applying lubricant 
to reduce friction, and introducing control force to less 
vibration.  The magnetic suspension (MS) technology is a 
feasible solution to improve the traditional mechanical 
system defeats in studies.  The MS system prevents the 
mechanical system from heat damage resulting from contact, 
friction, vibration and extends the machine lifecycle, to 
release mechanism size problem, but improve its precision 
substantially. 
In MS application, hybrid electromagnetic suspension 
(EMS) actuators are designed using permanent magnetic and 
electromagnetic coil to achieve operation flexibility 
(Chinese Patent I-228574, 20050301). Some detail design 
feature is accomplished to construct actuators in applications. 
The ball and plate system is a nonlinear dynamic 
problem typically.  The ball and plate system is commonly 
created for control system modeling [1, 2, 3], design, 
implementation, and verification [4, 5] as a training tool for 
science and engineering practices in many applications.  
Constructing from EMS actuators into a ball and plate 
system, Lin and Ker used Back-stepping Controller to 
control the ball position successfully [6].  It is an 
unprecedented literature about applying the MS system in 
balance and stable control in the ball and plate system.  
However there were some defeats found in further studies.  
By some design improvement and applying different control 
strategy, this paper presents some important results of the 
ball and plate control using the improved MS actuator with 
modified modeling and system formulation. 
 
2. Ball and Plate System 
In the ball and plate system, Newton’s Second Law can 
be used for derivation.  In order to avoid an incomplete 
consideration of force, the Euler-Lagrange method is 
actually used to derive the dynamic behavior of the ball and 
plate system.  Euler-Lagrange is processing by calculating 
energy, and can effectively deal with more complex 
conditions.  After finishing system modeling, the stability 
verification can be simulated by using MATLAB/Simulink. 
 
2.1. Ball and plate system modeling 
The mathematical model of proposed system as 
illustrated in Figure1.  To derive the motion equation for the 
proposed system, assuming the ball rolling on the plate 
without slippage, spin and friction [7].  Assume the plate is 
geometrically symmetry. 
The proposed system state variables are defined by the 
acceleration of gravity as g , the plate length as 2d , 
choosing the plate angle from X-axis and Y-axis as   and 
 , respectively, the ball position as ( , )b bx y , the radius of 
ball as br , the mass of plate as M , moment of inertia of 
plate in the X-axis and Y-axis are both PI  because of 
symmetry, the mass and moment of inertia of the ball as m   
 3 
 
interference from analog circuit to digital circuit.  The 
balancing control procedure is reading the signal of ball 
position from the touch panel sensor.  Next step, the 
microcontroller calculates the control signal strength using 
the control law.  The control signal sends to the drive circuit 
by Pulse Width Modulation (PWM); then, the control 
current conveys to MS actuator from drive circuit.  The 
process is repeating until the ball reaches at the target 
position.  At the same time, MCU transmits the ball position 
to terminal through UART0 for recording.  Figure 3 is the 
basic block diagram of control loop.  
 
 
Figure 2: The proposed system architecture. 
 
Figure 3: The basic block diagram of control loop. 
 
 
3.2. MCU MSP430F169 
MSP430F169 is a TI MSP430 family product [Texas 
Instruments products, on web: http://ti.com/ available in 
August 2009] for signal processing.  It is adopted to build 
control function among sensors to main computer.  The 
MSP430F169 series are microcontroller configurations with 
a fast 12-bit ADC, two built-in 16-bit timers, two USART, 
and 48 I/O pins.  The ADC12 module is a high-performance 
12-bit analog-to-digital converter. 
3.3. Actuator (Photo coupler and MOSFET) 
In the ball and plate system, when the MCU receives 
the ball position, then transmits four PWM signals to control 
magnetic suspension actuators.  However, the current carried 
by PWM signals which come from the MCU are too small to 
drive the actuators.  Therefore, the small PWM signal comes 
from the MCU will be magnify through MOSFET (IRFZ44) 
via photo coupler (PC923). 
The maximum voltage and current of IRFZ44 are 60V 
and 55A, respectively.  The photo coupler PC923 can isolate 
two different voltage, and the maximum isolated voltage can 
be 15~30V.  Figure 7 is the circuit of actuator. 
3.4. Magnetic Suspension Actuator 
The main function of MS actuator is to perform as a 
filter to generate reverse force to absorb external vibration 
force.  The general actuator used spring and damping to 
suppress the vibration.  Here, permanent magnets substitute 
for the damping device.  Permanent magnet is the principle 
of magnetic fields interacting on repulsive or attractive force 
between N or S polarities.  Then, the magnetic suspension 
system design adopts two different design types from 
attractive force and repulsive force in system structures.  
Most studies verified that the repulsion-type magnetic 
suspension is a naturally unstable system as a result it is very 
difficult to control.  To overcome the repulsive interaction, 
Fig.8 shows the magnetic suspension actuator structure 
(Chinese Patent I-228574) [6], including the pedestal, the 
holding tube, the motion support, the iron core, the 
permanent magnet and coils.  The design details are shown 
in Table 1 with system parameters in consideration. 
Considering an EMS actuator, assume the EM coil has 
n  turns in a unit length to make the total coil of nh  turns in 
the solenoid around the iron core. The magnetic force can be 
derived as: 
2
2
0
1
2
c
mag gap
iF N A
x
        (14) 
where 0  is the permeability of free space, gapA  is the 
cross-section area of the face of air gap, N nh . 
 
3.5. Touch Panel 
The touchkit provides controllers to communicate with 
host devices with RS232, USB, PS2, and I2C interface.  In 
this paper, the MCU use RS232 to connect with touch panel 
through UART1.  After connecting with touch panel, the 
touchkit controllers report touched/untouched point with the 
packet format list.  Each point packet has 5 bytes in length 
and contains the resolution of the touch point, 11 bits of 1st 
axis coordination data and 11 bits of 2nd axis coordination 
data.  Figure 4 is the point packet transformation.  The 
numbers shown on the left received from the touch panel 
will transfer to the X and Y position of the ball on the right. 
 
Figure 4: The point packet transformation. 
 
4. Application of Control Law in the Ball and 
Plate System 
After L. A. Zadeh created the fuzzy set theory in 1965 , 
the fuzzy set theory has been widely used in systems 
engineering, signal process, control engineering and other 
 5 
 
Figure 9: Control flowcharts of circular trajectory tracking. 
 
4.2. Rule table 
In this ball and plate controlling system, the rule table 
[10] is completed by the operator’s experience and 
anticipation.  It simulates the human ability of decision-
making is the kernel of the fuzzy controller.  The control 
force is decided by the input variables e  and e  
Traditionally, for common fuzzy logic rule when the 
current state is far from the set point, the system will be 
given a large control force to stable the beam.  However, 
when the current state is near to the sliding surface, the 
system will oscillate around the set point.  Therefore, the 
system must be coordinated with rule table or forecast table 
as Table 1. 
In Table 2, the forecast table predicts the next step and 
let the control force occur in advance to improve the 
stability control system.  In this way, it can stop before the 
state reaches to the equilibrium position, so that the speed of 
the ball will drop zero and the overshoot will be also 
decreased.   
Table 1 Forecast of fuzzy-rules. 
 PB PM PS ZE NS NM NB
PB NB NB NB NB NB NM NS
PM NB NM NM NM NM NS ZE
PS NB NS NM NS ZE ZE PS
ZE NM NM NS ZE PS PM PM
NS NS ZE ZE PS PM PS PB
NM ZE PS PM PM PM PM PB
NB PS PM PB PB PB PB PB
 
5. Implementation and Test 
After unit function tests, the overall system is 
integrated for verification tests, as shown in Figure 2. 
 
5.1. Sampling Period and Accuracy in the Ball and Plate 
System 
The process times was read out from the digital 
oscilloscope.  The operation frequency is roughly about 
25~30Hz, depend on the velocity of ball.  When the ball 
speed become fast, the touchkit controller will output ball 
position slowly.  The accuracy of the ball position is 
calculated from its speed and the output frequency of 
touchkit.  As the speed of ball faster, the accuracy of the ball 
position is worse. 
5.2. Position tracking tests 
The forecasted fuzzy logic controller is chosen to 
evaluate the performance of the ball and plate in nonlinear 
control system applications, two kinds of set points are 
carried out in different initial conditions to check the system 
equilibrium and stable capability.  The first set point is (0, 0), 
and the balance zone sets on ±1cm from set point.  When the 
ball rolls into the balance zone, the MCU will stop control.  
The test results meet the desired performance with settling 
time from 3~6 seconds. 
The second set point is (-7, -7), and the balance zone sets 
on ±1cm from set point.  When the ball rolls into the balance 
zone, the MCU will stop control.  The test results also show 
very good agreement with the desired performance as 
typical characteristics in Figure 10 and Figure 11, with 
settling time from 3~7 seconds.  
 
Figure 10: 2D ball position from (14, 13.5) to (-7, -7). 
 
Figure 11: t-X plot and t-Y plot from (14, 13.5) to (-7, -7) 
 
5.3. Trajectory tracking tests 
The forecasted fuzzy logic controller is chosen to 
evaluate the performance of the ball and plate in nonlinear 
control system applications, several tests are carried out in 
different initial conditions to check the system trajectory 
tracking capability.  The trajectory is designed as a circle 
with center of circle O (0, 0), and radius 5R  .  The test 
results appear very excellent performance with the circular 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/06/16
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以長滯空無人載具建立防災與救災應用的行動空網通訊系統(2/3)
計畫主持人: 林清一
計畫編號: 100-2218-E-006-012- 學門領域: 極端氣候下之複合性災害防治之
研究－莫拉克颱風的經驗與教訓
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
舉辦技術成果研討會 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
