 1
Introduction 
 
The synthesis of inorganic nanoparticles was widely reported in the past decade due to the 
unique properties, hence preparation of polymer-nanoparticle nanocomposites become more and 
more important. For the preparation of polymer-nanoparticle nanocomposites, the key point is how 
to improve the dispersion and avoid the aggregation of nanoparticles in the polymer. Although 
different polymers, block copolymers, and dendrimers were used as the stabilized agents to 
synthesize gold nanoparticles (GNPs) in the literatures, reports of the preparation and 
characterization of polymer-nanogold nanocomposites are only occasional. In the literatures, 
poly(methylphenylphosphazene) (PMPP), poly(2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate) (PHEMA), 
polyurethane (PU), polystyrene (PS), poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG), and polyimide (PI) were used to 
prepared polymer-GNPs nanocomposites. 
 
A facile preparation of polymer-GNPs nanocomposites was the blend of GNPs and polymers, 
but aggregation of GNPs always occurred at high Au content. Core-shell structures formed by the 
physical (hydrogen bond and static electricity) or chemical absorption between the polymer 
backbone and GNPs can avoid the aggregation of GNPs and improve the amount of GNPs in the 
polymer matrix. However, a baking process is always necessary to prepare solid bulks, particles, or 
films, and desorption of stabilizer will occur at higher temperature. Therefore, covalent bonds 
which can provide a strong binding between GNPs and polymers and prevent aggregation of GNPs 
even in high temperature baking process are considered in this study. Comparing to polymer-oxide 
hybrids or nanocomposites, studies of the optical, thermal, or mechanical properties of 
polymer-nanogold nanocomposites or their films are quite few. Some of previous literatures 
mentioned that GNPs promote the thermal decomposition of the polymer matrix due to their 
catalysis ability, and this result limits the applications of polymer-nanogold nanocomposites. 
However, in another study, small-sized GNPs in low content in the water-based polyurethane could 
serve as the nucleating agent for crystallization and enhance hydrogen bond formation, and 
improved the thermal stability and mechanical strength of the prepared nanocomposite. However, 
aggregation occurred in the polymer matrix filled with 0.065 wt.-% Au, and the larger GNPs could 
reduce crystallization, hydrogen bonding, thermal stability, and mechanical strength of the prepared 
nanocomposite. 
 
Covalent bonds which can provide a strong binding between GNPs and polymers and prevent 
aggregation of GNPs are considered in this study. In this study, preparation and properties of high 
Au content (0.75 wt.-%) polyimide-nanogold nanocomposites with covalent bonds between PI and 
GNPs were studied. HAuCl4 in ethanol was reduced and stabilized by NaBH4 and 
3-mercaptopropyltrimethoxysilane (MPS) respectively to form the MPS-encapsulated gold 
nanoparticles, MPA-Au. The MPS stabilizers provide the Si-OR functional groups and form 
covalent bounds with the coupling agent, 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane (APS), capped on the 
polyimide. GNPs of two sizes were used to prepare the nanocomposites respectively, and the 
structures and properties of the prepared nanocomposites were studied. We also try to confirm the 
effects of the sizes and contents of GNPs on the thermal stability of the polyimide matrix, and find 
the reason that causes the significantly decrease of decomposed temperature. Preparation and 
properties of high Au content (1.0 wt.-%) acrylic polymer-nanogold nanocomposites were also 
studied in this study. HAuCl4 in THF was reduced and stabilized by lithium triethylborohydride 
(super-hydride) and MPS respectively to form the MPS-encapsulated gold nanoparticles, MPS-Au. 
The acrylic copolymers were synthesized by methyl methacrylate (MMA) and 
3-(trimethoxysilyl)propyl methacrylate (MSMA). The MPS stabilizers provide the Si-OR functional 
groups and form covalent bounds with the coupling agents, MSMA. MPS-Au nanoparticles of two 
sizes were used to prepare the nanocomposites. 
 
 
 3
Results and Discussion 
 
Polyimide-Nanogold Nanocomposites (PI-Au) 
 
A Zetasizer Nano system was used to characterize the particle sizes of MPS-Au1 and 
MPS-Au2. The results show the average particle sizes are 2 nm for MPS-Au1 (MPS/Au = 2) and 5 
nm for MPS-Au2 (MPS/Au = 0.5) respectively. The results show a higher MPS/Au ratio brings a 
smaller particle size and have good agreement with the literature. Figure 1 shows the FT-IR spectra 
of the prepared PI-APS and PI-Au1 nanocomposites. Similar spectra are observed in PI-Au2 
nanocomposites and not showed here. The characterized peaks of the imide group were observed at 
1713 cm-1 (symmetric C=O) and 1775 cm-1 (asymmetric C=O), respectively. The absorbance of OH 
group at 3200-3700 cm-1 is not observed in the spectrum, indicating the complete imidization of the 
polyimide and condensation of APS and MPS. The band observed at 920~1100 (Si-O-Si) cm-1 
indicates that MPS-Au nanoparticles are bounded with the coupling agents APS through the 
condensation reaction successfully. Figure 2 is the cross-section FE-SEM images of the prepared 
PI-Au nanocomposite films PI-Au1-1 and PI-Au1-2, and shows the well dispersion of GNPs in the 
prepared nanocompositions. There is no significant large-scale aggregation of gold, and the size of 
most GNPs in the composites is smaller than 10 nm. However, some small-scale aggregations 
(about 10~20 nm) is observed in each sample. This may due to the self condensation of MPS-Au 
during the synthesis of nanocompositions. Compared with PI-Au1-1, PI-Au2-1 presents more gold 
nanoparticles as well as small-scale aggregations. 
 
The TGA results of the prepared polyimide and polyimide-nanogold nanocomposites in this 
study are listed in Table 1. An obviously earlier decomposition was found in each 
polyimide-nanogold nanocomposite prepared by its PAA-Au solution directly. The earlier 
decomposition is similar to that mentioned in the previous literatures. In order to remove the 
residual reactants, PAA-Au was precipitated and washed by DI water and than cured by the same 
baking process to form PI-Au nanocomposites. The TGA curves showed in Figure 3 indicate that 
PI-Au2-2 prepared by its PAA-Au solution directly has an obviously earlier decomposition than 
that of PI-APS, but the same sample prepared by its washed precursor shows the matched thermal 
stability. For all PI-Au nanocomposites prepared by their washed precursor, the slightly lower 
decomposition temperatures than that of PI-APS may due to the residual -OMe and -OH groups of 
MPS-Au. Smaller MPS-Au has a higher specific surface and also more coated MPS, hence higher 
MPS/Au ratio results in more residual -OMe and -OH groups after baking. We suppose that very 
small sized MPS-Au can offer higher cross-linking density of polyimide by the covalent Si-O-Si 
bonds and increase the thermal decomposition. However, when the Au content is increase, small 
aggregation occurs, as observed in the FE-SEM pictures, the effect of MPS-Au on the cross-linking 
density and thermal stability is decrease. This phenomenon also consists with the TGA results of 
PU-Au nanocomposite in the literature. Corresponding amounts of HAuCl4, NaBH4, and HCl were 
added into the PAA-APS solution separately, and PI-APS samples were prepared by the PAA-APS 
solution directly and the same preparation process mentioned in the experimental section. Note that 
MPS-Au nanoparticles were not added into these three PAA-APS solutions in this experiment. The 
TGA results of these three PI-APS samples as well as the normal PI-APS are listed in Table 1. 
Although each PI-APS sample prepared by adding the testing agent shows an earlier decomposition 
than that of normal PI-APS, PI-APS prepared by adding the reducing agent, NaBH4, has a much 
earlier decomposition than that of pure PI-APS and others. This experiment indicates that the 
residual reactants and reactive products will decrease the thermal stability of the prepared 
nanocomposites, and the residual NaBH4 is the main reason that causes a much earlier 
decomposition. An interesting behavior is the high residual at 800 oC of the PI-APS prepared by 
adding additional NaBH4 as well as the PI-Au nanocomposites prepared by their PAA-Au solutions 
directly. That means another mechanism of thermal decomposition might happen in these samples. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
In this study, polyimide-nanogold and acrylic polymer-nanogold nanocomposites were 
successfully prepared respectively, and the structures and properties of the prepared 
nanocomposites were studied. The effects of the sizes and contents of GNPs on the thermal stability 
of the polyimide matrix were also confirmed. The covalent bounds between gold nanoparticles and 
polymers were formed through the condensation of Si-OR groups in MPS and APS or MSMA. 
Therefore, the GNPs were well dispersed and maintained nano-scale in the polymer matrix. This 
study also indicates that the residual reactants, functional groups and by-products will decrease the 
thermal stability of the prepared nanocomposites, but the temperature of maximum decomposed 
rate of each nanocomposite is higher than that of their relative polymers. According to these results, 
the prepared polyimide-nanogold nanocomposites have high thermal stability and thus have 
potentials in optical, magnetic, catalytic, and other applications. 
 
 
REFERENCES 
 
1. M. C. Daniel, D. Astruc, Chem. Rev. 2004, 104, 293. 
2. P. A. Buining, B. M. Humbel, A. P. Philipse, A. J. Verkleij, Langmuir 1997, 13, 3921. 
3. C. H. Walker, J. V. St. John, P. Wisian-Neilson, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2001, 123, 3846. 
4. V. Pardo-Yissar, R. Gabai, A. N. Shipway, T. Bourenko, I. Willner, Adv. Mater., 2001, 13-1320. 
5. N. N. Kariuki, L. Han, N. K. Ly, M. J. Patterson, M. M. Maye, G. Liu, C.-J. Zhong, Langmuir 
2002, 18, 8255. 
6. X. Wang, R. T. Haasch, P. W. Bohn, Langmuir 2005, 21, 8452. 
7. M. K. Abyaneh, R. Pasricha, S. W. Gosavi, S. K. Kulkarni, Nanotechnology 2006, 17, 4129. 
8. V. V. Ginzburg, K. Myers, S. Malowinski, R. Cieslinski, M. Elvvell, M. Bernius, 2006, 39, 
3901. 
9. S.-H. Hsu, C.-W. Chou, S.-M. Tseng, Macromol. Mater. Eng. 2004, 289, 1096. 
10. H.-M. Huang, C.-Y. Chang, I.-C. Liu, H.-C. Tsai, M.-K. Lai, R. C.-C. Tsiang, J. Polym. Sci.: 
Polym. Chem. 2005, 43, 4710. 
11. R. G. Shimmin,; A. B. Schoch, P. V. Braun, Langmuir 2004, 20, 5613. 
12. M. K. Corbierre, N. S. Cameron, R. B. Lennox, Langmuir 2004, 20, 2867. 
13. M. K. Corbierre, N. S. Cameron, M. Sutton,; K. Laaziri, R. B. Lennox, Langmuir 2005, 21, 
6063. 
14. D. Andreescu, A. K. Wanenekaya, O. A. Sadik, J. Wang, Lamgmuir 2005, 21, 6891. 
15. J. H. Park, Y. T. Lim, O Ok Park, J. K. Kim, J.-W. Yu, Y. C. Kim, Chem. Mater. 2004, 16, 688. 
16. S.-H. Wu, H.-M. Huang, K.-C. Chen, C.-W. Hu, C.-C. Hsu, R. C.-C. Tsiang, Adv. Fun. Mater. 
2006, 16, 1959. 
17. A. Prakash, J. Ouyang, J.-L. Lin, Y. Yang, J. Appl. Phys. 2006, 100, 054309. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5
  
400 500 600 700 800
MPS-Au2
A
bs
or
ba
nc
e
Wavenumber ( nm )
512 nm
MPS-Au1
 
 
Figure 4 The UV-Vis absorption spectra of the 
synthesized gold nanoparticles. 
 
4000 3500 3000 2500 2000 1500 1000 500
  
PA-Au2-2
PA-Au2-1
PA-Au1-2
PA
PA-Au1-1 
  
 Wavenumber (cm-1 )
 
 
  
 
Figure 7 Cross-section FE-SEM images of the 
cast films of PA-Au1-1 and PA-Au1-2. 
 
 
Figure 5 FT-IR spectra of the prepared acrylic 
polymer-nanogold nanocomposites. 
 
 
400 500 600 700 800
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
PA-Au1-2
PA-Au2-1
 
 
A
bs
or
ba
nc
e
Wavenumber ( nm )
PA-Au1-1
PA-Au2-2
  Figure 8 TGA curves of the prepared 
poly(MMA-co-MSMA) and its MPS-Au1 
nanocomposites. 
Figure 6 The UV-Vis spectra of the cast films 
of the prepared acrylic polymer-nanogold 
nanocomposites. 
  
 
 7
 9
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  ■ 可技術移轉                                      日期：96 年 10 月 10 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：以含官能基硫醇包覆奈米金製備聚丙烯酸酯-奈米金與
聚醯亞胺-奈米金奈米複合材料與其性質研究 
計畫主持人：張朝欽 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-032 -032 -      學門領域：高分子 
技術/創作名稱 聚丙烯酸酯-奈米金奈米複合材料製備方法 
發明人/創作人 張朝欽 
製備具備高金含量及高熱穩定性的壓克力高分子-奈米金奈米複合
材料的方法。以壓克力共聚高分子與官能基化的奈米金粒子製備奈
米複合材料。 
技術說明 
A method to prepare acrylic polymer-nanogold nanocomposites of high 
Au content and good thermal stability. The acrylic copolymer and
functionalized gold nanoparticles were used for the preparation of 
nanocomposites. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
光電薄膜、催化觸媒 
技術特點 高金含量及高熱穩定性的壓克力高分子-奈米金奈米複合材料 
推廣及運用的價值 可發展新世代積體電路封裝、平面顯示器、太陽能電池、生化觸媒、催化反應等應用 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送貴單位研發
成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
 2007年 4 月 25 日 
報告人姓名 張朝欽 服務機構 及職稱 
淡江大學 
化學工程與材料工程學系
助理教授 
會議時間 
會議地點 
2007/4/9~2007/4/13 
美國舊金山 
本會核定 
補助文號 NSC 95-2221-E-032-032 
會議 
名稱 
(中文) 2007材料研究學會春季會議 
(英文) 2007 Materials Research Society (MRS) spring meeting 
發表 
論文 
題目 
(中文) 聚胺基酸甲酯-奈米金混成材料之製備與性質分析 
(英文) Preparation and Characterization of Polyurethane-Nanogold 
Hybrid Materials 
 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
今年材料研究學會(Materials Research Society, MRS)春季會議如往年仍於美國舊金
山Moscone West會議廳舉行，會期共有五天（當地時間 4月 9日至 4月 13日），是材
料研究學會每年定期舉辦的兩次（春、秋）會議之一。此次會議共分為五大領域，三十
六個議題，內容涵蓋金屬、陶瓷、高分子、半導體及其他新興材料，與會的學者、專家、
學生及產業界人士來自世界各國，為全球材料科學領域最重要也最盛大的會議，整體議
程可見附件一。此次會議的五大領域分別為： 
 
(A) 電子與磁性材料(Electronic and Magnetic Materials) 
(B) 高分子、混成材料與生物材料(Ppolymers, Hybrids, and Biomaterials) 
(C) 光學材料及現象(Optical Materials and Phenomena) 
(D) 奈米材料、性質與運用(Nanoscale Materials, Properties, and Applications) 
(E) 共同議題(General) 
 
會議的內容顯現出目前材料科學熱門的研究方向為新世代半導體材料與元件、量子
光學材料、有機半導體光電材料與製作技術、奈米材料與科技、生物醫學材料及應用，
以及新能源材料等。這次參加發表的論文「聚胺基酸甲酯-奈米金混成材料之製備與性
質分析」是屬於「高分子、混成材料與生物材料」領域下的「有機/無機混成材料合成
製備與性質」議題，此議題共有超過 200篇的論文發表，顯示此領域為目前熱門的研究
方向之一。相關的論文又可分為有機矽烷材料、多孔性材料、高分子/奈米粒子混成材
料、奈米粒子複合材料、自組裝材料、奈米多層材料等，涵蓋各項光電（介電層、電晶
體、記憶體、發光二極體、太陽電池…）、生醫、封裝、觸媒，以及紡織等方面的應用。 
 
無機混成材料合成、製程與性質(Synthesis, Processes, & Properties of Organic/Inorganic 
Hybrid Materials)、薄膜半導體太陽電池 (Thin Film Compound Semiconductor 
Photovoltaics)、有機與奈米顆粒混成太陽電池元件 (Organic & Nanoparticle Hybrid 
Photovoltaic Devices)等。此外，有一個感興趣的議題是奈米尺度熱傳(Nanoscale Heat 
Transport)，但因為與其他議題時間衝突，只好忍痛割愛。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
參與發表論文的學者及學生，除美國各知名大學及研究機構外，有許多是來自加拿
大、英國、法國、德國、日本、韓國、台灣、中國等國家的大學及研究機構，此外來自
香港、新加坡，以及南歐、中歐及中東等國家的論文也不少。值得注意的，今年韓國發
表的論文很多，而且都集中在最快速發展的幾個領域中，是我們應該警惕及學習的。此
次國際大型會議有幾點特色可共我們學習： 
 
1. 口頭報告的時間是有規定的，大多數的演講者均能掌控報告的內容及時間，同時增
強報告的流暢性及清晰度，這需要多加練習才可達成，尤其是對於經驗較少的年輕
學者及學生，是一次相當有效的學習經驗。相較於國內研討會，部分演講者沒有注
意其報告的內容或時間，同時報告能力較為缺乏，應加以改善。 
 
2. 論文海報的篇幅較為寬大，圖片及字型較大，可看得比較清楚，同時參與發表論文
海報者均用心於其圖、文的說明及排列，使其清晰、流暢。相較於國內研討會，海
報的製作其圖、文均太小，且常直接以書面論文修改，對於製作「海報」的方式及
觀念並不正確。 
 
3. 國內較缺乏專門舉辦類似大型研討會的場地，各學門的研討會是各學校輪流舉辦，
舉辦單位的經驗不足，往往勞師動眾而效果不彰。同時參與者除國內相關領域學者
及學生外，僅有邀請來專題演講的學者，較缺乏國外的學者及學生參與。相較附近
各國如日本、韓國、香港、新加坡，其舉辦國際性大型研討會的能力及經驗均優於
我國。若國內有專門舉辦學術演討會的場地及人員，並固定及提早規劃各學門的研
討會，應可增強各研討會的規模及舉辦能力，並吸引其他國家的專家學者共同參與，
提升研討會的效果。 
 
材料研究學會為目前世界上最大材料領域之學術協會，涵蓋的領域範圍相當廣，其
成員除美國外亦來自世界各國，本次春季會議的主席即有來自日本東京大學的 Harold 
Hwang教授。每年春秋兩季舉辦的會議，規劃的議題及發表的論文均非常的多且新穎。
參與此次會議，除吸收最新的研究成果與技術，並可同時拓展新的知識與視野，因此預
計每年均會參加其春季或秋季的會議，以維持研究的創新性。 
 
