 - 2 - 
社會影響力對衛星車隊派遣科技 擴散之作用 
 
 
中文摘要 
 
在一個社會體系中，科技擴散是一個使用者社群影響力的具體呈現。社會
體系的結構與人際互動關係對創新科技擴散的影響一直是應用科學與社會科學
如何整合所關心的重要議題。科技創新擴散的定義是一個過程，即在一定時間
內，社會體系中的成員藉由特定管道，傳播關於某項創新科技的訊息，並進行
科技採用的過程（Rogers, 1995）。過去許多研究者分別從創新本質（創新的物
件）、溝通管道（創新擴散方法與路徑）、時間（創新擴散的快慢）與社會體
系（創新擴散的情境）等不同構面來探討擴散活動。過去文獻指出社會結構與
人際關係對創新擴散可能產生加速效果、也可能妨礙創新擴散。本研究將從社
群的社會影響力理論角度，藉由台灣大車隊內的四類不同社群採用衛星派遣科
技系統的工作實務，探討社群成員如何影響新科技創新的採納與擴散。最後，
提出具體的理論與實務意涵， 解構社群的社會影響力對科技擴散所帶來的挑戰
與機會。 
 
關鍵字：科技擴散、 社群、社會影響力、工作實務、個案研究 
 
 - 4 - 
Social Influence of Technology Innovation on GPS Dispatching 
System Implication 
 
INTRODUCTION AND PRIOR LITEARTURE 
Innovations can be objects, strategic practices, or new ideas which are perceived 
as alternative ways to solve problems by potential adopters. Diffusion research 
describes how innovation spread through a potential population of adopters. However, 
in many instances, innovations may present more uncertainty about whether these 
alternatives are indeed better than the old ways of problem-solving. The primary goal 
of diffusion research is to predict the likelihood of innovation diffusion and examine 
the diffusion pattern of that innovation (Hargadon & Douglas, 2001; Rogers, 1995; 
Wolfe, 1994). There are two main focuses in the diffusion literature: first, describes 
the process of getting the innovation adopted within the population; and second, the 
process of adopting the innovation. 
 
The diffusion theory informs us that typically a population adopts an innovation 
following S-shaped curve of adoption (Strang and Soule, 1998). The adoption curve 
begins slowly; but soon the rate of adoptions increases rapidly as more users in each 
successive time period decide to adopt. The rapid scaling point in the S-shaped curve 
is known as “critical mass” point. Hence, a great deal of research investigates how to 
attract a critical mass of users so as to achieve “network externality” effect – i.e. when 
this critical mass point is reached, the majority of potential users will follow the 
crowd to adopt the innovation.  
 
How may the critical mass point be reached? The existing diffusion research 
suggests three strategies: by considering innovation characteristics, adopter’s profiles, 
and social environment (Rogers, 1995). First of all, five structural requirements must 
be met so that the innovation maybe favored by potential adopters. The innovation 
should offer relative advantage than that of the existing solution, such as more 
economic benefits, social prestige, and convenience. The innovation also must be 
compatible with users’ practices so that users can transfer skills from the existing 
solution. If the innovation is too complex, it may also scare users away. Lastly, if the 
 - 6 - 
context. It is narrowed down to the community level and examines how different 
social networks operate within the work context where adopters collaborate and share 
awareness of each others’ competencies, strengths, shortcomings and contributions 
(Brown & Duguid, 1991; Wenger & Snyder, 1999). 
 
Although several studies have attempted to analyze how social networks and 
communities may affect innovation diffusion, they have largely testified to the 
causality (Abrahamson & Rosenkopf, 1997; Au & Kauffman, 2001; Deroian, 2002; 
Drazin & Shoonhoven, 1996). These studies have not yet examined the processes in 
which social networks may impede the spread of innovation. Existing literature on 
social influences generally emphasizes how opinion groups may exert power to 
persuade other members to adopt innovations (Czepiel, 1974; Ho & Levesque, 2005; 
Johanson, 2000; Lowray et al., 2004; Clark & Goldsmith, 2006). They nonetheless 
pay little attention to the community characteristics and merely examine how social 
influences are enacted from user’s work practices (cf. Fitzgerald et al., 2002). Lastly, 
the social influences of communities may change over time. For example, though one 
community may exert influence over innovation adoption initially; its influence may 
fade away over time, while another community’s influence may grow. The dynamics 
of community shifts and social influences are less-explored in current studies to 
understand the outcome of innovation diffusion. 
 
CASE STUDY AND RESEARCH METHODS 
 
This field study has an opportunity to investigate one of the well-known business 
innovations in Asia: the Global Positioning Systems (GPS) based vehicle dispatch 
system. The system has been used by Comfort-Delgro Transportation in Singapore, 
which effectively manages the logistics of 15,000 taxis. Taipei High-tech Taxi, a 
Taiwanese transportation company, was reputed for its powerful technology 
capability in vehicle dispatch. This longitudinal study takes an interpretative stand 
that is used to uncover essential features of communities and illuminate the 
relationships among these features (Ragin, 1994: 103). In analyzing the characteristics 
of various driver communities, ethnographic methods are used to examine members’ 
practices in actual work context (Orr, 1996). This study is part of a larger research 
project which seeks to investigate technological innovation transfer in cross-national 
 - 8 - 
annual rallies. In these occasions, we could talk to cabbies. We also travelled to taxi 
stands and cabbies’ habitats, such as petroleum stations, drivers’ canteens and taxi 
despots. To triangulate data, we called taxi from different mobile numbers at different 
locations (e.g. metro station or department stores), as well as took taxis from different 
high-traffic streets. These were interviews lasting for 10-20 minutes. We also 
participated in drivers’ private social gatherings so as to obtain data without the 
management’s surveillance.  
 
RESEARCH FINDINGS AND CONCLUSION 
The existing THT drivers could fall into four categories, which are the brand-
conscious, the transaction-based, the technology savvy, and the Robin-Hood cabbies. 
These cabbies form different characteristics of community and exert different nature 
of social influence – within their own communities, across other communities, and 
outside THT membership. It must be noted that these communities are informally 
established. These informal communities are so implicit that even the THT 
management, group leaders, and the majority of cabbies are not aware of their 
existence. 
 
Four Groups of Cabbies in Taipei 
Taipei taxi drivers generally employ four types of passenger-seeking practices, 
which are not mutually exclusive. The first type of cabby devotes a great amount of 
time in building long-term customers. They offer special services to customers and 
often attract frequent flyers as each airport trip could amount to US$50. They 
carefully gather information on customer preferences and offer tailor-made services. 
For example, one cabby served varied breakfast meals to his regular customers 
without extra charge. When such cabbies join THT, they often become group leaders 
and develop the “professionalism” community. 
 
The second is to cruise around the streets. Self-employed cabbies and co-operative 
members constitute the majority of the cabby population. They largely work 
independently and are risk-averse. Some of the more active cabbies join reputable 
radio-fleets to find security. These cabbies are often troubled by their low income. 
 - 10 - 
Table 1: Four Social Communities Observed in THT 
Driver types Community Characteristics 
Social Influences 
Within community (Inter-personal) Inter-group Towards Non-members 
Brand-conscious 
cabbies 
Professionalism community: The brand-
conscious cabbies are sensitive in fostering 
long-term relationships with regular 
customers. They make sure their dressing and 
behavior speak for the brand. They are role 
models in THT and serve voluntarily as group 
leaders. CabLink is only one mechanism for 
them to meet service-sensitive customers. 
Lieutenant club: Many of the brand-
conscious cabbies are retirees from the 
armed forces. They collaborate closely in 
managing fleet matters, such as customer 
complaints, disciplinary issues and 
member welfare. Their social meetings 
are mostly in the headquarters. 
Brand police: The brand-conscious cabbies 
influence other work groups through 
exercising disciplinary action. They are 
given a privilege line by the management to 
report any non-compliance activities, such 
as smoking in the car. Other cabbies 
nickname them ‘brand police’. 
Cautious head-hunter: The 
brand-conscious cabbies 
influence non-THT cabbies 
selectively. They want to 
build a dream team and only 
want the best drivers to join 
THT.  
Transaction-based 
cabbies 
Normative community:  The transaction-based 
cabbies are the source of fleet stability. They 
are risk-averse and cooperative regarding the 
company’s policies.  Most often, they choose 
to remain silent. They could easily blend 
in  with the organizational culture and would 
be willing to learn if they are told to. 
Honorable merchants: The transaction-
based cabbies work independently. They 
are utilitarian and concerned more with 
making ends meet. They are not keen to 
develop relationships with colleagues, 
with the management, and with the 
customers. 
The silent majority:  The transaction-based 
cabbies have little influence on other work 
groups. They gather around taxi stands and 
can be influenced by other people’s 
opinions. They prefer to keep their opinions 
to themselves. Their focus is the family. 
I don’t want trouble:  These 
cabbies want to stay away 
from trouble. They are 
worried that their referrals 
might get them into trouble. 
Thus, they prefer to listen and 
stick to their motto: ‘silence is 
golden’.   
Technology-savvy 
cabbies 
Intelligent community: The technology-savvy 
cabbies know the technology functions well. 
They systematically analyze their daily 
driving routines and identify dispatch ‘hot 
spots’. They compile guidebooks and 
information maps to maximize their income. 
They are more interested in ‘smart money’. 
Many of them are university graduates. They 
are the brain of the THT. 
Book club: They form small teams and 
get together to conduct research on 
technology and on database maintenance. 
They develop strong-tie relationships, and 
family members are involved in their 
social gatherings. They would not allow 
other cabbies to join their communities 
easily and like to keep their teams 
exclusive. 
The proud techies. They are perceived as 
heroes in the fleet because of their 
technology expertise and high-income 
performance. Their influence is more 
technical than social. When they conduct a 
seminar, it is sure that many cabbies will 
attend. But they are impatient to teach the 
technology laggards. 
No time and don’t care. 
Cabbies in this community 
are more interested in 
performance. They would not 
encourage outsiders to join 
THT. For them, that is the 
marketer’s job, not a 
technologist’s work. 
Robin Hood cabbies 
God-father community:  Robin Hood cabbies 
are considered as the outlaw faction of the 
fleet. Many of them use wireless radio for in-
group communication – a potential treat to 
THT’s image. Many of them secure their 
businesses by occupying specific turfs. They 
dislike ‘big-brother’ and consider it a mission 
to fight against the ‘bad king’. 
A brotherhood of outlaws.  Robin Hood 
cabbies gather together in specific taxi 
stands (their turfs). They exhibit a mafia-
style loyalty to their own circle and prefer 
in-group favoritism. They are quick to 
form opinions and spread rumors to 
others.  It is not unusual for them to resort 
to group violence to exact revenge on 
other cabbies. 
Bad influences. The Robin Hood cabbies 
have a huge influence on transaction-based 
cabbies. The ‘brand polices’ have no impact 
on them. Untested complaints, hearsay and 
rumors could spread quickly through their 
social network. Although they strive to 
protect THT in their own way, they often stir 
up negative feeling in the THT.   
Rumor has it. Many Robin 
Hood cabbies receive only a 
few dispatches. They are 
afraid that more THT 
members might result in more 
competition. They discourage 
other cabbies to join the  THT 
but encourage other Robin 
Hoods to join.  
 - 12 - 
Fitzgerald, L., Ferlie, E., Wood, M., & Hawkins, C. 2002. Interlocking interactions, 
the diffusion of innovation in health care. Human Relations, 55: 1429-1449. 
Hargadon, A. B., & Douglas, Y. 2001. When innovations meet institutions: Edison 
and the design of the electric light. Administrative Science Quarterly, 46: 476-
504. 
Ho, V. T., & Levesque, L. L. 2005. With a little help from my friends (and 
substitutes): Social referents and influence in psychological contract fulfillment. 
Organization Science, 16: 275-289 
Johanson, J. 2000. Intraorganizational influence theoretical clarification and empirical 
assessment of intraorganizational social influence. 2000. Management 
Communication Quarterly, 13: 393-425. 
Kostova, T. 1999. Transformational transfer of strategic organizational practices: A 
contextual perspective. Academy of Management Review, 24: 308-324. 
Kraut, R. E., Rice, R. E., Cool, C., & Fish, R. S. 1998. Varieties of social influence: 
The role of utility and norms in the success of a new communication medium. 
Organization Science, 9: 437-453. 
Lowrey, T. M., Otnes, C. C., & Ruth, J. A. 2004. Social influence on dyadic giving 
over time: A taxonomy from the giver’s perspective. Journal of Consumer 
Research, 30: 547-558. 
Munir, K. A. 2002. Being different: How normative and cognitive aspects of 
institutional environments influence technology transfer. Human Relations, 55: 
1403-1428. 
Orr, J. E. 1996. Talking about machines: An ethnography of a modern job. Ithaca: 
ILR Press. 
Ragin, C. C. 1994. Constructing social research: The unity and diversity of method. 
Newbury Park, CA: Pine Forge Press. 
Rogers, E. M. 1995. The diffusion of innovations (4th ed.). New York: Free Press. 
California: Pine Forge Press. 
Shoib, G., & Nandhakumar, J. 2003. Cross-cultural IS adoption in multinational 
corporation: A study of rationality. Information Technology for Development, 
10: 249-260. 
Strang, D., & Soule, S. A. 1998. Diffusion in organizations and social movements: 
From hybrid corn to poison pills. Annual Review of Sociology, 24: 265-290. 
Wenger, E. C., & Snyder, W. M. 1999. Communities of practice: The organizational 
frontier. Harvard Business Review, 77(1): 139-145. 
Wolfe, R. A. 1994. Organizational innovation: Review, critique, and suggested 
research directions. Journal of Management Studies, 31: 405-431 
 
研究成果自評 
藉由本次國科會專題計劃之執行，並累積過往長期在計程車研究領域的
