 ii
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
CHAPTER 1 Introduction……………………………………………………………1 
1-1. Development of Radial Basis Function Collocation Methods…………..1 
1-2. Complicated Domains…………………………………………………...2 
1-3. Extension to Large Domains in Two or Three Dimensions……………..3 
1-4. Scope and Approaches of the Present Study…………………………….4 
CHAPTER 2 Two Dimensional Potential Problems…………………………………5 
2-1.  Mathematical Formulation for the Potential Flow Problems……………5 
2-2.   The RBF Collocation Method…………………………………………...5 
2-3.   The Approach of Domain Extension……………………………………7 
2-4.   Some Examples and Discussions………………………………………..9 
2-5   Conclusions……………………………………………………………..21 
CHAPTER 3 Two Dimensional Viscous Flow Problems…………………………..24 
3-1. Mathematical Formulation for the Viscous Flow Problems…………...24 
3-2. The RBF Collocation Mehtod………………………………………….25 
3-3. Some Examples and Discussions………………………………………29 
3-4. Conclusions…………………………………………………………….35 
CHAPTER 4 Three-Dimensional Inviscid Flow Problems…………………………36 
4-1. The Fictitious Time Integration Method……………………………….36 
4-2. Some Test Cases and Discussions……………………………………..38 
4-3. Conclusions…………………………..………………………………..44 
CHAPTER 5 Conclusions…………………………………………………………..45 
References …………………………………………………………………………46 
 
 2
differential equation need be further transformed in a way similar to the boundary 
element method [e.g., 14]. The latter, on the contrary, is much simpler and more 
straightforward in applications. The proper RBF is first chosen. Then it is directly 
substituted in the partial differential equation or boundary conditions at each appropriate 
collocation point, from which a system of simultaneous linear system is then formed. 
Finally, the solution is found by solving the algebraic equation system. Many studies 
have been devoted to applications of different RBFs including multiquadrics, thin-plate 
splines, Hermite RBFs, and so on [e.g., 15-18].  
 
1-2. Complicated Domains 
Even though much progress has been achieved in the past decade, the RBF 
collocation method has not yet been widely employed to solve problems defined in 
complicated or irregular domains which are usually unavoidable in engineering 
applications. Most test cases and applications available in the literature are restricted to 
simple geometries such as circles or rectangles. These simple domains are topologically 
equivalent to a rectangular one. In fact, some RBFs can only fit scattered data defined in 
topologically rectangular domains [19]. 
A possible approach to cure this problem is the domain decomposition method. The 
original purpose of introducing the method is to reduce the condition numbers of the 
discrete system of the RBF collocation method [20, 21]. Nevertheless, it is interesting to 
find that it also provides a possible way to decompose a complicated domain which is not 
convex or not topologically rectangular into a set of sub-domains which are convex and 
topologically rectangular. Recently, Zhou et al. [22] incorporated the Schwarz iterative 
method in the domain decomposition approach to solve partial differential equations. Li 
and Hon [23] proposed a non-overlapping domain decomposition technique which makes 
it possible to generate independently collocation points among different decomposed 
domains. Later, Ling and Kansa [24] introduced the preconditioning technique to 
improve the stability in computations. Their success shows that the domain 
decomposition method makes a step forward for the RBF collocation method to be 
applied to problems with complicated geometries. Of course, the price of iterations and 
complicated programming need be paid.  
 4
the coefficient matrix and the solution accuracy. They suggest combine what has been 
available in the FEM method with what has been learned in RBF simulations to form a 
flexible, hybrid approach to solve complicated multi-dimensional problems. Ingber, et al. 
[31] developed a parallel domain decomposition scheme to solve three-dimensional 
diffusion problems. They found that the domain decomposition mitigated matrix 
conditioning problems while at the same time reducing CPU requirements associated 
with both the assembly and solution of dense matrix equations associated with large 
problems.  
 
1-4. Scope and Approaches of the Present Study 
In the present study, we attempt to apply the radial basis function collocation 
method to fluid flow problems, including two- and three-dimensional potential flow 
problems, two-dimensional viscous flow problems in complicated domains. 
For the problem of complicated domains which often appear in engineering 
applications, we propose a domain extension approach. It is a general and easy way to 
handle all domains which are not convex and/or not topologically rectangular. The 
concept is to extend the domain so that a topologically rectangular one is form. Then the 
RBF collocation method can be readily applied and the numerical solution obtained 
without any domain decomposition and iterations. The computational procedure becomes 
easy and straightforward. 
For problems with large domains in two or three dimensions, we will employ the 
fictitious time integration method proposed by Liu and Atluri [32]. In this approach, no 
solution of linear algebraic equation system is required and, thus, the problem of large 
condition number can be avoided. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6
many possible RBFs available for us to choose in the RBF collocation method. A few 
commonly used RBFs include multiquadrics (MQ), Gaussian functions, thin-plate splines, 
and logarithmic functions.  
In the present study, we chose the reciprocal MQ RBF 
2 2
1( ) ,xi
ir c
                                 (2-4) 
where the shape parameter c is some non-zero constant which need be suitably chosen 
and ri is the distance between the field point x and the collocation point xi, 
| | .x xi ir                                      (2-5) 
For the choice of c, Buhmann and Micchelli [35] showed that the convergence rate 
was accelerated for a monotonic increase of its value. However, for computations with 
finite significant digits of floating point values, the increase of its value beyond some 
threshold usually results in rapid deterioration in the condition number of the algebraic 
equation systems. Therefore, it must be carefully chosen to obtain an accurate numerical 
solution. 
For the smooth solution ( )x  of Eq. (2-1) with proper boundary conditions, the 
approximation is expressed by 
1
( ) ( ),x x
N
i i
i
a 

                              (2-6) 
where N is the total number of the collocation points and ia  are the unknown 
parameters to be determined. In the collocation method, the field points are usually 
identical to the collocation points. The approximate solution must satisfy the governing 
equation, Eq. (2-1), for each collocation point in  and the proper boundary conditions 
A
D
C
B
L1 L2
L3
L4
 
Figure 2-1.  Information propagation paths in a complicated domain. 
 8
can be directly applicable. 
The concept behind the domain extension is derived from the superposition method 
in the potential flow theory. As an example, it is known that the superposition of potential 
functions of a two-dimensional uniform flow and a doublet represents a uniform flow 
past a circular cylinder without circulation. This does not mean, from the physical and 
mathematical point of view, that there is no flow inside the cylinder in the superposition 
process. Rather, it means that, since the superposition introduces a close streamline which 
divides the flow field into two separate parts not interfering with each other, the dividing 
streamline can be thought of as the surface of a cylinder and, moreover, the flow inside it 
does not have meaning as far as the uniform flow past the cylinder is concerned. In 
addition, any streamline which is orthogonal to equi-potential lines can be viewed as a 
solid boundary. On the other hand, when we discuss a uniform flow past a solid circular 
cylinder, we may extend the flow domain to include the part inside the cylinder so that 
the superposition of potential functions can be considered. It is interesting to find that 
such a concept also works for the RBF collocation method in potential problems. 
We assume that the solution domain of the potential function ( )x  extends to the 
“artificial” domain. Let A represents the artificial domain. The whole domain after 
extension becomes T A   . Then we have 
2 ( )xf  , x T .                          (2-7) 
Nevertheless, the introduction of the artificial domains leads to another problem about the 
prescription of boundary conditions. On one hand, some of the physical boundaries where 
the boundary conditions are specified are no longer the boundaries of T  but inside the 
 
Figure 2-2.  Example of domain extension to form a topological rectangle. 
 10
with a magnitude of 10. For this flow, the boundary conditions can be specified as shown 
in Figure 2-3. Here, the function  represents the stream function. 
Though the geometry of the domain is simple, a direct application of the 
multiquadric RBF collocation method to Eq. (2-1) in this domain does not lead to a 
meaningful numerical solution for a proper collocation point distribution. In fact, the 
numerical solution seemingly varies randomly from a collocation point to another for any 
reasonable value of c. A convergent and meaningful solution cannot be obtained because 
the flow domain is not a convex one. 
We extended the domain to include the area outside the bend area and form a 
topological rectangular region which is convex, as shown in Figure 2-4. Also shown in 
the figure is an example of the collocation point distribution. For simplicity, a uniform 
grid strategy was employed. Then the multiquadric RBF collocation method was directly 
applied to the whole domain.  
For computations, we selected the collocation grids at the numbers of 341PN   
and 100.AN   The shape parameter was set at c = 0.6. The streamlines obtained from 
the numerical solution is shown in Figure 2-5(a). For comparison, the streamlines 
obtained from the finite-difference method with a central difference scheme in both 
spatial directions is shown in Figure 2-5(b). For the computation by the finite-difference 
 = 5
=
 5
 = 0
=
 0
=
 1
0(
y
–0
.5
)
 = 10(x –0.5)
u = 10
=
 5
=
 0
=
 1
0(
y
–0
.5
)
 
Figure 2-3.  Uniform duct flow over a bend of 90. 
 
 12
constriction. The distribution of collocation points is depicted in Figure 2-7. Since the 
extended regions are small, the collocation points were distributed along the boundary 
only so that the constriction can be properly described in computations. No collocation 
point was placed in the extended region. 
The streamlines obtained from the numerical solution are shown in the upper part in 
Figure 2-8. In this computation, we set the shape parameter to be 0.6. The numbers of 
collocation points for the physical and extended domains are 1715PN   and 0,AN   
 
(a) Streamlines obtained by the RBF collocation method. 
 
(b) Streamlines obtained by the finite-difference method. 
Figure 2-5.  Streamlines for the flow over a bend. 
 14
rectangular are “small.”  
 
2-4.3. Heat Conduction on a Hollow Plate 
In this test case, we attempt to extend our approach to a general potential problem 
for which the equi-potential lines are not necessarily orthogonal to the boundaries. We 
consider the heat conduction problem without sources for a square plate with a square 
hole, shown in Figure 2-9. The domain is defined in the region [0, 1]  [0, 1] – [0.3, 0.7] 
 [0.3, 0.7]. This is a doubly-connected domain. For the outer boundaries, the flux 
boundary conditions are prescribed. As to the boundary of the hole, the temperature 
distribution is specified. For an easy accuracy evaluation of the numerical results by the 
present approach, we derive these conditions based on the exact solution of the Laplace 
equation 
 0.1 sin cos .y xe x e y                       (9) 
Again, a direct application of the multiquadric RBF collocation method to Eq. (1) in 
this domain does not lead to a physically meaningful solution for a proper collocation 
point distribution. We extended the domain to include the square hole and form a 
topological rectangular region which is convex. The extended domain becomes a square 
plate, as shown in Figure 2-10. Then the multiquadric RBF collocation method was 
directly applied to the whole domain. For computations, we selected the collocation grids 
at the numbers of 392PN   and 49,AN   as shown in Figure 2-10. The shape 
parameter in Eq. (5) was arbitrarily chosen to be 0.6c  , which is not necessarily 
optimum. The numerical result is shown in Figure 2-11 and the error distribution 
Figure 2-8.  Streamlines of the flow past a constriction. The upper and lower parts represent the 
solutions by the present approach and the finite difference method, respectively. 
 16
employed for solving any problems governed by the Laplace equation. 
 
2-4.4. A Nonrectangular Extension 
In our proposed approach, the extended domain need be topologically rectangular 
and convex, but not necessarily rectangular. To show this, we consider the potential 
problem in a region of Greek-cross shape, shown in Figure 2-13. For the purpose of 
comparison of the numerical solution to the exact one, we chose the exact solution to be  
sin cos ,
2
x y   
 
Figure 2-11.  Numerical solution for the heat conduction in a doubly-connected domain. 
 
Figure 2-12.  Absolute error distribution of the numerical solution. 
 18
above. 
We extended the domain by adding four triangular regions, shown in Figure 2-14, to 
form a convex region which is topologically rectangular. The extended domain is an 
octagon rather than a square. The former needs fewer collocation points than the latter. A 
possible distribution of collocation points is also shown in Figure 2-14. In this test study, 
we have 156PN   and 40.AN   The shape parameter in Eq. (2-5) was again chosen to 
be 0.6c  . 
The numerical solution is shown in Figure 2-15. Examining the error distribution 
 
Figure 2-15.  Numerical solution of the fourth test case at 196N  and 6.0c . 
 
 
Figure 2-16.  Error distribution of the fourth test case at 196N  and 6.0c . 
 20
radial basis function 5ir . Their results show that their approach was successful. However, 
in our attempts, a meaningful solution unfortunately cannot be achieved by the 
collocation method with the inverse multiquadric function for the present problem setup. 
We extend the physical domain in two ways. In Figure 2-19(a), a fictitious small 
square is added so that the physical domain is straightforwardly extended to form a 
square. Figure 2-19(b) shows another possibility which extends the physical domain to 
form a pentagon. Both extensions make the new domains topological rectangles. Of 
course, the latter extension seems more attractive since fewer additional collocation 
points are needed in the smaller fictitious region. Following the above procedure, we 
solve the problem in these two extended domains. The selected collocation points are also 
shown in Figure 2-19. For the square-extended region, we have 96PN   and 25AN   
and in total 121P AN N N   . As to the pentagon-extended one, we have 96PN   and 
10AN   and in total 106P AN N N   .  
The contours of the solutions at 0.6c   are shown in Figure 2-20. The two 
solutions reasonably agree to each other. That is, the similar solutions are achieved with 
different extensions. In addition, to compare the solutions with those obtained by other 
method, we also solve the problem by the finite difference method. The partial 
derivatives in the governing equation are discretized by central differencing. A mesh with 
 
 
T = 0
T = 0
T = 1
T = 0
T = 1 – y 
T/x = 0
 
Figure 2-18.  Boundary conditions. 
 22
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) The extension into a square. 
 
 
(b) The extension into a pentagon. 
Figure 2-19.  Domain extensions and examples of the collocation point distribution. 
 24
CHAPTER 3  
TWO-DIMENSIONAL VISCOUS FLOW PROBLEMS 
 
In the last chapter, we have demonstrated that the results obtained by this approach 
agreed quite well with either theoretical or numerical solutions by other methods. 
Furthermore, he also attempted to extend the approach to a general problem for which the 
boundary was not a part of streamline and showed that good results could be obtained. 
This implies that the method of fictitious domain extension can be employed to solve all 
potential problems. 
In the approach of fictitious domain extension, we assume that the solution domain 
includes both the physical and fictitious domains. Nevertheless, in such a way, the 
problem may become ill-posed because some physical boundaries where the boundary 
conditions are specified are inside the extended domain and some new boundaries where 
no boundary conditions are specified are created. Fortunately, Cheng and Cabral [36] 
have shown that such problems can be easily handled in the RBF collocation method 
without iterations and stability considerations. Here, their strategy is adopted for the 
solution of the ill-posed problem arising from the domain extension. 
 
3-1. Mathematical Formulation for the Viscous Flow Problems 
The steady incompressible Navier-Stokes equations in non-dimensional form can be 
expressed in a non-dimensional form as 
0u                                 (3-1) 
21( )u u up
Re
                          (3-2) 
where u = [u  v]T and p denote the velocity and pressure fields, respectively. Re is the 
Reynolds number. 
The following three types of boundary conditions are specified. At the inlet, the 
values of all variables are given. At the outlet, the streamwise gradient for each variable 
is prescribed to be equal to zero. On the solid walls, no slip boundary condition is 
specified. 
To solve Eq. (3-1) and (3-2), we employed the artificial compressibility approach 
 26
( , ) ( ) ( )x x
N
u
j j
j
u t t 


1
                           (3-4b) 
( , ) ( ) ( )x x
N
v
j j
j
v t t 


1
                           (3-4c) 
In the present study, the multiquadric RBF is again chosen for ( )xj . Therefore, 
( )
| |
x
x x
j
j c
   2 2
1 ,                           (3-5) 
where c is some non-zero constant which must be properly chosen. For the choice of c, 
Buhmann and Micchelli [33] showed that the convergence rate was accelerated for a 
monotonic increase of its value. However, for computations with finite significant digits 
of floating point values, the increase of its value beyond some threshold usually results in 
rapid deterioration in the condition number of the algebraic equation systems. Therefore, 
it must be carefully chosen to obtain an accurate numerical solution. 
Substituting Eq. (3-5) in Eq. (3-4) at each collocation point on the physical and 
fictitious domains, we obtain the simultaneous equation systems for the continuity and 
momentum equations. To elaborate the derivation, we first consider the continuity 
equation which can be written as follows, 
αA B α C α
p
u v
p p p
d
dt
                        (3-6) 
where Ap, Bp, and Cp are matrices of order N  N, whose elements are defined as follows 
( ) ( )
( ) ( ), ( ) , ( )
x x
x           j i j ip ij j i p ij p ija b cx y
        
and α p , αu , and αv  are vectors consisting of pi , ui , and vi , respectively. Eq. (3-6) 
can be further rearranged in a form as follows 
1 1 ( , )α A B α A C α G α α
p
u v p u v
p p p p
d
dt
                     (3-7) 
Similarly, one can also apply the RBF collocation method to the momentum 
equations and the boundary conditions at the interior and boundary collocation points, 
respectively. Nevertheless, unlike the counterpart for the continuity equation, they form a 
set of differential algebraic equation system of index 1. This is because the discretized 
 28
( , , )αD G α α α
v
v p u v
v
d
dt
                      (3-11) 
for the y-momentum equation.  
Finally, assembling Eq. (3-7), (3-10) and (3-11), we obtain a differential algebraic 
equation system in the following form 
( , , )αD G α α αp u vd
dt
                         (3-12) 
where α  is a vector consisting of α p  αu  and αv , 
1
2
2
2
I 0
D
0 0
N N
N
      , 
and 
3
3
2
2
( , , )
( , , )
( , , ) ( , , )
( , , )
( , , )
G α α α
G α α α
G α α α G α α α
G α α α
G α α α
p p u v
u p u v
p u v v p u v
u p u v
v p u v
          , 
where 3G
v  and 2G
v  are the counterparts of 3G
u  and 2G
u , respectively. The initial 
condition for Eq. (3-12) can be obtained by solving the coefficients for the guess pressure 
and velocity fields prescribed at t = 0. 
Since in our study, only steady state solution is of interest, we employ the 
pseudo-transient continuation approach (e.g. Coffey et al., 2003) to solve the problem. 
The pseudo-transient continuation is a predictor-corrector method for temporal 
integration in which the time step is increased as the iteration progresses with the 
objective of fast convergence near a solution. Temporal accuracy is not the objective, but 
in most cases the method begins by integrating accurately in time, closely following the 
transient behavior of the solution in the early stages of the iteration until an approximate 
steady state is reached. The time step is thereafter increased, sacrificing temporal 
accuracy in the terminal phase in favor of rapid convergence to steady state. 
The pseudo-transient continuation procedure is defined by the following iteration 
1 1
1 ( ( )) ( )α α G α G αn n n n nt D                        (3-13) 
 30
the flow domain, the solution we obtain by employing the proposed numerical procedure 
is quite accurate. 
The nondimensional pressure distributions in the streamwise direction are shown in 
Figure 3-3. In the plot, the distributions at y = 0.1, 0.3, and 0.5 are shown in different 
symbols. They are close to each other and agree to the exact solution. Compared to the 
exact solution, it is observed that the computed pressure is accurate with about 1% error 
at every collocation point. 
The results of the test case appear to imply that the present solution procedure can 
 
Figure 3-1.  Collocation point distribution for the Poiseuille flow.. 
 
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
u0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
y
Exact solution
x = 0.2
x = 0.5
x = 0.8
 
Figure 3-2.  The velocity distribution of the Poiseuille flow at Re = 10.. 
 32
The extended domains are shown in green in Figure 3-5. With such fictitious 
extension, the domain becomes a rectangle which is convex. Also shown in Figure 3 is an 
example of the collocation point distribution. In our computations, they are again 
uniformly distributed in the domain. As an initial condition, a fully-developed velocity 
profile on all sections along the channel and the upper part of the cavity and a zero 
velocity distribution on the cavity and the extended domains are specified. 
The flow at Re = 10, based on the channel width and the maximum velocity, was 
computed. The computational domain lies on (x, y)  [0, 2]  [0, 1.5]. The shape 
parameter in the multiquadric RBF is taken, again, to be 0.6. 
Figure 3-6 shows the computational results. The results shown in these two 
drawings are obtained with a uniform collocation point distribution (41  31 in the x- and 
y-direction, respectively). For comparison purposes, the solution solved by the finite 
volume method with the SIMPLE scheme is also shown. 
In Figure 3-6(a), the distribution of the x-velocity component along the vertical 
centerline of the cavity is shown. We observe that the two velocity distributions 
reasonably agree to each other. The agreement seems better in the region where the 
velocity magnitude is larger. In addition, the peak velocity is reduced, compared to that in 
the channel flow. The y-position where the peak velocity takes place is no longer on the 
centerline of the channel. Obviously, the velocity decays quite rapidly down the cavity. 
For y < 0.6, the value of u is very small. Nevertheless, the result by the proposed 
procedure reveals almost no reverse flow whereas the result by the finite volume method 
 
Figure 3-5.  Domain extension and collocation points for the driven cavity flow. 
 34
horizontal centerline of the cavity. Again, the result obtained by the present procedure is 
reasonably close to that by the finite volume method. In addition, we can also find that 
the boundary conditions were well satisfied. 
The distributions of the x- and y-velocity components, u and v, respectively, are 
shown in Figure 3-7. The results obviously indicate that deep down the cavity, the flow is 
insignificant and the fluid is almost stagnant. In addition, due to the specification of the 
outlet boundary condition, the flow recovers very rapidly the fully-developed velocity 
profile. 
 
 
(a) u-velocity distribution. 
 
 
(a) v-velocity distribution. 
Figure 3-7.  The distributions of velocity components. 
 36
CHAPTER 4  
THREE-DIMENSIONAL INVISCID FLOW PROBLEMS 
 
In the past two chapters, we have successfully studied the two dimensional flow 
problems, including inviscid and viscous flows. Even though further elaboration is 
needed in the part of incompressible viscous flow, the RBF collocation method is 
basically capable of solving the two-dimensional problems. 
It has been pointed out that another difficulty which may appear in practical 
applications of the RBF collocation method is that the condition number grows 
drastically as the number of collocation points grows. Therefore, it becomes quite 
difficult if the flow domains of interest are big. 
One popular approach which is available in the literature is the domain 
decomposition technique. Nevertheless, it is quite tedious if the domain is irregular. 
Therefore, to cope with the difficulty, we will employ another approach which has been 
developed recently in the literature. It is the fictitious time integration method proposed 
by Liu and Atluri [32]. The detailed derivation will be discussed in the following. 
 
4-1. The Fictitious Time Integration Method 
For a potential problem in three dimensions, the governing equation and boundary 
conditions are identical to those discussed in Section 2.1. Applying the RBF collocation 
method and the artificial domain extension technique, we can reach the following system, 
2
1
( ) ( ).x x
N
i i j j
i
a f

                         (4-1) 
The algebraic equations constitute a simultaneous system of order N and can be solved 
for the constant coefficients, which is identical to Eq. (2-8). 
If the system consists of a large number of equations, the condition number becomes 
very large and the system is ill-conditioned. Therefore, the traditional solution procedures 
usually lead to inaccurate solutions or even divergence. A new approach must be sought. 
A possible way to cure this problem is the fictitious time integration method 
developed by Liu and Atluri [32]. In the following, we derive the method for linear 
 38
Instead of directly solving the ill-condition linear simultaneous algebraic equation 
system, Eq. (4-2), we solve the system iteratively by artificial time marching technique 
via Eq. (4-10). This approach avoids solution problems due to ill-condition linear 
system. 
We now employ the forward Euler scheme to integrate Eq. (4-10) by starting from a 
chosen initial condition, 
 1 1 2, , ..., , 1, 2,...,(1 )         k k k k ki i i Nmv ta a F a a a i Nt    ,             (4-11) 
where t  represents the time step and ( )k ki i ka a t  is the value of kia  at the k-th time 
step kt k t  . Arbitrarily specifying the initial conditions, 0ia  ( 1, 2,...,i N ), we can 
integrate Eq. (4-11) till convergence. And the converged solution is the solution of Eq. 
(4-2). The convergence criterion for ia  is the present study is 
 1
1
n
k k
i i
i
a a 

   
where   is some specified value.  
Ku et al. [38] thoroughly discussed the requirements for which the convergence 
criterion can be reached. Since in the present study, the equation system, Eq. (4-2), is 
linear, the values of 1 2( , ,..., )i NF a a a  tends to zeros and the solution of Eq. (4-2) is 
found.  
However, since we need to numerically integrate Eq. (4-10) from t = 0 to some final 
time to obtain the solution, the factor 1/q(t) decreases monotonically with time. Therefore, 
it is important to control the factor 1/q(t) to ensure that Eq. (4-11) is satisfied only when 
1 2( , ,..., )i NF a a a  is close to zero but not the factor 1/q(t). Consequently, the choice of m 
is vital. The study by Ku, et al. [38] shows that a small value of m can efficiently control 
the value of the factor 1/q(t). However, the value of m should not be too small; otherwise, 
the artificial time marching can lead to divergence.  
 
4-2. Some Test Cases and Discussions 
In the following, we conduct a series of tests to demonstrate the present approach 
can be readily and easily applied to RBF collocation method with the artificial domain 
 40
properly distributed in both the physical and fictitious regions. For the first computations, 
we designed the collocation grid with 189PN   and 64,AN   as also shown in Figure 
4-2. The total number of collocation points is 253P AN N N   . With such a small 
number of collocating points, we can employ the LU decomposition technique to solve 
the linear equation system. The computation at 6.0c  shows that the L2 and L norms 
of error are 410425.6   and 310573.2  , respectively. For comparison, Li and Hon [23] 
decomposed the physical domain into two sub-domains, a square and a circle. Their 
results show that with 121 collocation points in each sub-domain, the L norm of error is 
21022.1   with the conical basis function 5ir  and 31017.5   with another conical 
basis function 7ir  after 15 iterations. Obviously, the results by the domain extension 
approach are comparable in accuracy to those obtained by the domain decomposition 
techniques. Nevertheless, in the present approach, the solution can be directly obtained 
without iterations. This implies that the computation procedure can be simplified and 
accelerated without loss of robustness and accuracy. 
Now, we intentionally increase the number of collocating points with a similar 
distribution strategy by 8 times such that 2024P AN N N   . Again, the shape 
parameter was set at c = 0.6. A direct solution by the LU decomposition method now 
leads to a divergent result. 
To employ the fictitious time integration method, we let the initial conditions be 
zero for all coefficients. In addition, we specify that m = 0.1 and  = 10–6. The fictitious 
time step used in the computation is 0.01t  . Within about 200 iterations, we obtain the 
convergent solution. The computational result shows that the L2 and L norms of error are 
42.301 10  and 49.133 10 , respectively. This signifies the applicability of the present 
approach to RBF collocation method. 
 
4-2.2. A Three-Dimensional Problem 
In the second test case, we consider the problem in a cubic space, 
( , , ) [0,1] [0,1] [0,1].x y z     For the purpose of comparison of the numerical solution to 
the exact one, we chose the exact solution to be  
 42
 
 
Figure 4-3.  Solution at y = 0.2. 
 
Figure 4-4.  Solution at y = 0.4. 
 44
4-3. Conclusions 
In this chapter, we employed the fictitious time integration method to solve the large 
scale problem in two and three dimensions by the RBF collocation method and the 
fictitious domain extension approach. The present approach is much simpler than the 
domain decomposition method which was advocated in the literature to solve large scale 
problems. 
We conducted two tests in the last section. The results show that the present 
approach is feasible. However, we should also point out that the present approach is not 
able to solve unsteady problems. Furthermore, the computation is still time consuming, 
compared to other mature computational methods, such as the finite element method, the 
finite volume method, and so on. Therefore, more effort may be needed to exercise 
before the present approach becomes a possible alternative to solve practical engineering 
problems. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 46
REFERENCES 
 
1. R.L. Hardy, “Multiquadric Equations of Topography and Other Irregular Surfaces,” 
J. Geophysics Res., Vol. 176, pp. 1905-1915, 1971. 
2. W.R. Madych and S.A. Nelson, “Multivariate Interpolation and Conditionally 
Positive Definite Functions, II,” Math. Comput., Vol. 54, pp. 211-230, 1992. 
3. E.J. Kansa, “Multiquadrics – A scattered Data Approximation Scheme with 
Applications to Computational Fluid Dynamics – I Surface Approximations and 
Partial Derivatives,” Computer Math. Appl., Vol. 19, pp. 127-145, 1992. 
4. E.J. Kansa, “Multiquadrics – A scattered Data Approximation Scheme with 
Applications to Computational Fluid Dynamics – II Solutions to Parabolic, 
Hyperbolic and Elliptic Partial Differential Equations,” Computer Math. Appl., Vol. 
19, pp. 147-161, 1992. 
5. R. Frank and R. Schaback, “Solving Partial Differential equations by Collocation 
Using Radial Functions,” Appl. Math. Comput., Vol. 93, pp. 73-82, 1998. 
6. H. Wendland, “Meshless Galerkin Methods Using Radial Basis Functions,” Math. 
Comp., Vol. 68, pp. 1521-1531, 1999. 
7. N. Dyn, “Interpolation of Scattered Data by Radial Basis Functions,” in Topics in 
Multivariate Approximation, C.K. Chui, L.L. Schumaker, and F.I. Utreras, eds., 
Academic Press, New York, pp. 47-62, 1987.  
8. M.J.D. Powell,  “Radial basis function approximations to polynomials,” in 
Numerical Analysis, D. E. Griffiths and G.A. Watson, Eds., Longman, pp. 223-241, 
1988. 
9. M.D. Buhmann, Radial Basis Functions, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 
UK, 2003. 
10. S.N. Atluri and T.-L. Zhu, “The Meshless Local Petrov-Galerkin (MLPG) 
Approach for Solving Problems in Elasto-Statics,” Comput. Mech., Vol. 25, pp. 
169-179, 2000. 
11. M. Zerroukat, H. Power, and C.S. Chen, “A Numerical Method for Heat Transfer 
Problems Using Collocation and Radial Basis Functions,” Int. J. Numer. Meth. 
Engng., Vol. 42, pp. 1263-1278, 1998.  
12. H.J. Choe, D.W. Kim, H.H. Kim, and Y. Kim, “Meshless Method for the Stationary 
Incompressible Navier-Stokes Equations,” Discrete Contin. Dyn. Syst. B, Vol. 1, pp. 
495-526, 2001. 
13. Y.C. Hon, K.F. Cheung, X.Z. Mao, and E.J. Kansa, “Multiquadric Solution for 
Shallow Water Equations,” J. Hydraulic Eng., Vol. 125, pp. 524-433, 1999. 
14. M. Tanaka, T. Matsumoto, and Y. Suda, “A Dual Reciprocity Boundary Element 
Method Applied to Steady-State Heat Conduction Problem of Functionally Gradient 
Materials,” Trans. Japan Soc. Mech. Eng. A, Vol. 67, pp. 35-40, 2001. 
15. M. Sharan, E.J. Kansa, and S. Gupta, “Application of the Multiquadric Method for 
Numerical Solution of Elliptic Partial Differential Equations,” Appl. Math. Comput., 
 48
31. M. S. Ingber, C. S. Chen, and J. A. Tanski, “A mesh free approach using radial 
basis functions and parallel domain decomposition for solving three-dimensional 
diffusion equations,” Int. J. Numer. Meth. Engng, Vol. 60, pp. 2183–2201, 2004. 
32. C.-S. Liu and S.N. Atluri, “A fictitious time integration method (FTIM) for solving 
mixed complementarity problems with applications to non-linear optimization,” 
Computer Modeling in Engineering & Sciences, Vol. 34, pp. 155-178, 2008. 
33. M.D. Buhmann and C.A. Micchelli, “Multiquadric Interpolation Improved 
Advanced in the Theory and Applications of Radial Basis Functions,” Comput. 
Math. Appl., Vol. 43, pp. 21-25, 1992. 
34. A.H.-D. Cheng and J.J.S.P. Cabral, “Direct Solution of Ill-Posed Boundary Value 
Problems by Radial Basis Function Collocation Method,” Int. J. Numer. Meth. 
Engng., vol. 64, pp. 45-64, 2005. 
35. M.D. Buhmann and C.A. Micchelli, “Multiquadric Interpolation Improved 
Advanced in the Theory and Applications of Radial Basis Functions,” Comput. 
Math. Appl., Vol. 43, pp. 21-25, 1992. 
36. A.H.-D. Cheng and J.J.S.P. Cabral, “Direct Solution of Ill-Posed Boundary Value 
Problems by Radial Basis Function Collocation Method,” Int. J. Numer. Meth. 
Engng., vol. 64, pp. 45-64, 2005. 
37. A.J. Chorin, “A numerical method for solving incompressible viscous flow 
problems,” Journal of Computational Physics, Vol. 2, pp. 12-26, 1967. 
38. C.-Y. Ku, W. Yeih, C.-S. Liu, and C.-C. Chi, “Applications of the fictitous time 
integration method using a new time-like function,” Computer Modeling in 
Engineering & Sciences, Vol. 43, pp. 173-190, 2009. 
39. B.F. Smith, P.E. Bjorstad, and W.D. Gropp, Domain Decomposition: Parallel 
Multilevel Methods for Elliptic Partial Differential Equations, Cambridge 
University Press, Cambridge, UK, 1996. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 50
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術
或應用價值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發
展之可能性）（以 500 字為限） 
 
本研究計畫乃是要提出一個新的構想，我們稱之為領域擴充法（domain 
extension approach），把既有的複雜物理領域加以擴充成為拓樸學上的矩形領
域（如圓形、梯形、矩形、方形等），在此擴展的領域上應用徑基底函數，來
求取微分方程的數值解。與前述的領域分解法比較，本方法的優點是：其一，
不需進行領域分解，因此可省卻數值迭代計算的繁複與耗時性；其二，比較具
有一般性，不需按照物理領域的不同，進行不同的領域分解；其三，程式的編
寫較為簡便。本方法不像前述文獻中個別的特例，而是一個通用性的方法，將
可應用在物理數學的各個相關領域，因此我們認為本計畫是具有原創研究性質
的規劃，其中所要探討的問題大都是目前徑基底函數選點無網格法所遭遇的瓶
頸，本報告也提出適當的方法加以解決，因此對於學術研究與國家基礎科學的
發展應有其助益。 
 
society: a new deal between scientists and 
citizens ，演講者為普瓦捷大學的教授 D. 
Mareau，內容簡短有趣，也富教育意涵。 
大會演講之後，即為分場的論文發表，同
一時段有六個場次同時進行。 
研討會的安排是每天有兩場大會演講，上
午與下午各一場，通常都是大會演講結束之
後，方舉行當半天的分場論文發表。大會演講
的主題算是精彩，每場 40 分鐘，演講的題目與
演講者如表一所示。 
本屆國際研討會的主要主題包括以下幾方
面：金屬材料（Metallic materials）、時變材料（Time dependent materials）、微尺度力學
（Micromechanics）、 奈米複合材料與奈米結構性材料（Nanocomposites and nanostructured 
materials）、微機電力學（Mechanics of MEMS）、銲接與銲接程序（Welds and welding process）、
Joining and assemblies、結構分析（Structure analysis）、全域量測與影像處理（Full-field 
measurements and Image processing）、光學方法應用（Applications of optical methods）、三維
量測（3D measurements）、高階與特殊方法（Advanced and specialized methods）、環境實驗
力學（Environmental experimental mechanics）、結構測試（Structural testing）、多軸測試
（Multiaxial testing）、偶合機構分析（Coupled mechanism analysis）、力學本構方程檢定
（Identification of mechanical constitutive equations）、以及各類應用（Applications）。如前所
述，我們不難看出主要是以固體力學方面的實驗為主，其餘領域的實驗力學算是屬點綴性質。 
 
時間：7/5 早上 演講者：Didier MOREAU 
演講題目：Linking Science and society: a new deal between scientists and citizens 
時間：7/5 下午 演講者：Elzbieta PIECZYSKA 
演講題目：Infrared imaging of TiNi shape memory alloy subjected to tension at various temperatures 
時間：7/6 早上 演講者：Michel BORNERT 
演講題目：Multiscale surface and volume full field strain measurements for improved insights on the 
micromechanics of materials 
時間：7/6 下午 演講者：Leslie BANKS-SILLS 
演講題目：A methodology for measurement of mechanical properties of materials used on the 
microscale 
時間：7/7 早上 演講者：John BOTSIS 
演講題目：Optical fiber sensors in experimental mechanics of composite materials  
時間：7/6 下午 演講者：Richard BURGUETE 
演講題目：”There be dragons here,” an exploration of the use of measurement in engineering 
時間：7/8 早上 演講者：Philippe GOUDEAU 
演講題目：Residual stresses in thin films: origin and measurements 
 表一  大會演講 
 
研討會的開幕典禮 
精緻文化。 
本人所發表的論文被大會排在第一天的下午的場次（七月五日下午）報告，為本次會一
的第一場應用類型迷你研討會。本場次現場約有數十位各國學者與學生，場面熱絡；各篇報
告結束之後，皆有熱烈的討論，彼此切磋討論。另外，本人在第二天主持的場次中，則有來
自四個不同的國家，其中來自阿爾及利亞的 Ali Bilek 教授跟本人的領域較接近，在會議結束
之後，大家相談甚歡，因此也順便邀請他參加將於明年在海洋大學舉辦的 FLUCOME 研討會，
他表達從未來過台灣，但對東方的友善人民有深刻印象，故有參加的意願，算是也建立一些
管道。 
根據研討會的統計，本屆研討會共有 336 篇論文發表，來自全球 39 個國家，其中台灣學
者的論文有 7 篇。 
整個會議於七月九日參訪行程之後圓滿結束。 
 
二、與會心得 
本次研討會的安排，除學術性的意涵之外，透過在地的飲食餐飲與各種文化參訪，具體
而深刻地展現出法國的精緻文化風采，這是我多年來參加過的研討會中，令人印象相當深刻
的一次。國際研討會的舉辦，除使與會者有機會彼此交流、切磋最新的學術發展之外，展現
在地國的文化風采、使與會者從中耳濡目染也是很有意義的。 
事實上，藉著研討會的舉辦與參訪，讓學術界領袖與學者專家了解該國的發展現況、親
炙該國的軟實力，並體驗該國的優良民情風俗與獨有的文化特色，是一種非常重要的國民外
交方式。國際研討會的舉辦實在是最便宜的外交（何況與會者還得自行掏腰包付報名費）！ 
本次研討會的論文報告中，有一些是科技與社會的互動關係討論，相當有意思。實驗力
學的發展已有數百年的歷史，至今與時俱進，仍是確證科學與科技理論的重要方式，其對人
類社會變遷與發展的影響確有莫大的力量。在科技性的學術研討會中，有此等議題的討論，
殊屬難得。 
本人過去參加的研討會大多是以理論和計算為主的會議，此番頭一次參以實驗為主的會
議，發現這兩者之間確有不太一樣之處，前者注重理論的縝密性與計算的正確性，後者則著
重於實驗的設計與觀察，也看到實驗確實是很昂貴的學術研究。 
 
 
 
   
星期五全天參訪 
 An Experimental Study of Drag Reduction in a Pipe with 
Superhydrophobic Coating at Moderate Reynolds Numbers 
J.-H. Chen1,a, C.-C. Tsai1, Y.-Z. Kehr1, L. Horng2, K. Chang2, and L. Kuo2 
1 National Taiwan Ocean University, Department of Systems Engineering and Naval Architecture, 2 
Pei-Ning Road, Keelung, Taiwan. 
2 Gelwell Biotech Corp., 27-5 Jungjeng E. Rd., Sec. 2, Danshuei Jen, Taipei County, Taiwan. 
Abstract. This paper experimentally investigates drag reduction, durability for 
operations and effects for preventing microorganism from adhering to the surface when 
the superhydrophobic coating is applied on a solid surface. The experiments are divided 
into two parts. In the first part, a pipe flow system was established to measure the drag 
and to test the durability of the micro-structure of superhydrophobic coating at average 
speeds varying from 1m/sec to 6m/sec. In the second part, we tested the effect for 
preventing microorganism from adhering to the surface by putting the coated steel plates 
into sea water. There are four different superhydrophobic coatings in the present study. 
The experimental results were compared to those applied by ship paint usually used at 
CSBC. 
1 Introduction  
In engineering applications, drag reduction by a superhydrophobic coating has been an important 
issue in recent years. The physical significance behind the popular issue is the fact that a limited 
slippage of fluid particles adjacent to a solid surface with a coating of superhydrophobic material 
becomes possible. 
In the past few centuries, physicists in fluid mechanics have justified that on a solid boundary, 
the viscous fluid would have zero velocity relative to the boundary from the macroscopic point of 
view. This is the no-slip condition which is well known to people in fluid mechanics. Though 
rigorous studies show that slippage of fluid particles on a solid surface is possible as revealed in 
molecular dynamics, such a slippage is usually restricted within the nano-scale [1]. The implication 
of the no-slip condition is the generation of viscous dissipation which occurs as fluid particles flow 
past the surface and brings them to rest due to roughness or irregularities of the surface. The viscous 
dissipation manifests macroscopically itself in the form of frictional resistance which makes a 
significant contribution to total resistance. 
Nevertheless, recent studies reveal that reducing the effective contact area of fluid particles on a 
solid surface leads to a significant reduction of the frictional resistance [2, 3]. This is particularly 
achievable through a textured superhydorphobic surface with a regular or irregular pattern because 
above it a thin air layer is entrapped and liquid particles move partly on the air layer to form a liquid-
                                                 
a e-mail : jhchen202@gmail.com 
14th International Conference on Experimental Mechanics 
The coating was applied on surfaces of steel pipes and steel plates. The pipes were employed for 
the test of drag reduction and durability. The plates were used for the test of anti-fouling capability. 
Three layers of anti-corrosive primers were first coated on the surfaces before the superhydrophobic 
coating was applied. For comparisons, we also conducted tests of the pipes and plates with the 
standard coating of CSBC Corp., Taiwan which includes three layers of anti-corrosive primers and 
four layers of self polishing anti-fouling paints.  
There are five superhydrophobic coating formulae in our study. Four of them were applied on 
pipes for the drag reduction tests. They were Type A, B, C, and D. Table 1 shows the relative 
characteristics of the coating surfaces. And four of them were applied on the steel plates. They were 
Type B, C, D, and E. Table 2 briefly describes the relative characteristics of coating surfaces. 
The experiments for each test are briefly described in the following. 
2.1 Tests of drag reduction and durability 
Figure 1 shows the setup of recirculating pipe flow system for tests of drag reduction and durability. 
The two water tanks were filled with water. A steel pipe of 3.6m long was connected on one end to 
one water tank and on the other end to a flow meter which was then connected to a motor. The inner 
diameter of the pipe was 34.2mm. The temperature of water was 24-26°C at the onset of tests and we 
kept it constant during the experiment. A plastic pipe was connected to the outlet of the motor and 
the water was then shed into the second tank. The outlet of the plastic pipe was immersed in the 
water of the second tank. Another plastic pipe of much larger diameter connected two tanks at their 
bottoms so that the water could flow back to the first tank.  
A transformer was employed to adjust the 
motor speed. Figure 2 shows the calibration curve 
of the motor speed to the average flow speed for 
the pipe with CSBC standard coating. It is obvious 
that the relation between them is linear for the 
motor speed less then 36 rps. Due to the loading 
problem of the motor, no more water can be 
pumped at a motor speed higher than 36 rps. 
There were three observing acrylic windows 
on the pipe in order to monitor the flow. Tests and 
observations were carried out at six different 
average flow speeds, ranging from 1 m/sec to 6 
m/sec. All the flows were turbulent.  
馬達
Flow 
direction
Flow 
meter
 
 
Fig. 1. Setup for pipe flow tests. 
馬達性能曲線
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70
Hz
m/
s 馬達性能曲線
 
Fig. 2. Calibration of motor and flow speeds. 
14th International Conference on Experimental Mechanics 
exposed to the air for 20-30 minutes; the other plate, labelled as Plate B, was pulled out of the water 
every two days and exposed to the air for 20-30 minutes. After exposition to the air, they were 
immersed again in the seawater. The whole test lasted for a month. 
3 Some Results and Discussions  
3.1 Tests of drag reduction and durability  
Four types of coating formulae were applied on four different pipes. They were labelled as Type A, 
B, C, and D. Their nanostructures were qualitatively described in Table 1. The test speeds vary from 
1 m/sec to 6 m/sec. These test speeds are much higher than those available in literature and more 
practical as far as industrial applications in the real world are concerned. The corresponding 
Reynolds numbers vary from about 3.8 × 104 to 2.3 × 105. Obviously, the flows in all of our tests lie 
in the regime of turbulence.  
The test for each coating formula started at 1 m/sec. Two standard runs of tests were conducted. 
For the first short run of test, the average flow speed was increased by 1 m/sec for every 30 sec till it 
reached 6m/sec. Then for the second run of test, we conducted the long-term test. Again, we began 
the test at the flow speed of 1 m/sec. However, the speed was increased by 1 m/sec every 60 minutes. 
The variation of motor speed was monitored during the test and taken every second by a personal 
computer. The motor speed is an indicator of power required to drive the flow at a specific speed. 
Obviously, a higher motor speed for a specific flow speed implies higher drag at that flow speed. 
Several interesting phenomena have been observed in these tests. 
At the onset of the flow test with coating formula A, we found that for an average flow speed 
higher than 5m/sec, the power required almost leveled off, as shown in Figure 5(a). It implies that 
the flow can be easily accelerated with almost no additional power owing to some kind of physical 
interaction between the fluid and nanostructure which is not clear yet. This is in sharp constrast to 
the situation for a flow speed less than 5 m/sec. For the latter, the motor speed grew almost linearly 
with the flow speed. 
In addition, because the required power levels off at a higher speed, the growth of drag 
drastically reduced as the speed was increased, compared to that due to CSBC standard coating. 
Consequently, the drag on the surface with the superhydrophobic coating was even less than that due 
to CSBC standard coating at a flow speed higher than 5.8 m/sec. It is quite interesting that the 
superhydrophobicity of the coating shows its due characteristic of drag reduction at a higher speed 
for which turbulent effects are supposed to be more significant. 
Nevertheless, such a good feature did not keep too long in time before the nanostructure was 
somehow destroyed and the required power was substantially increased as the speed of flow was 
 
 (a) First 30 minutes of test.                                                    (b) After 30 minutes of test. 
Fig. 5. Power required for superhydrophobic coating formula A and CSBC standard coating formula. 
14th International Conference on Experimental Mechanics 
in the textured super-
hydorphobic surface 
and it became wet. 
These are shown in 
Figures 9 and 10. 
The test shows that 
the surface regularly 
exposed to air is 
important to keep it 
superhydrophobic. 
Otherwise, the pro-
perty of superhydro-
phobicity can soon 
be destroyed not too 
long after the sur-
face becomes wet. 
Nevertheless, the re-
quired time interval 
of air exposition may 
vary for surface coat-
ed with different 
coating formulae. 
The experiment 
shows that the sur-
faces of Type C and 
D can sustain longer 
before the seawater 
diffuses into the air 
layer. It is interesting 
to find that these two 
types of coating re-
sulted in a nano-
structure of less uni-
formity and larger 
scale. 
For Plate B, the 
fouling appeared on 
the superhydropho-
bic surfaces 4 days 
later. Furthermore, 
the fouling can be 
observed on the side 
with CSBC standard 
coating after 8 days of immersion test.  
For Plate A, we could expect that the anti-fouling capabi-lity could be better. In fact, the fouling 
appeared on the superhydrophobic surfaces 11 days later. Furthermore, the fouling can be observed 
on the side with CSBC standard coating after 18 days of immersion test.  
It appeared that longer superhydrophobic sustainability results in better anti-fouling capability. 
The loss of superhydrophobicity results in the fouling phenomenon on surfaces with superhydro-
phobic coating much earlier than that with CSBC standard coating. 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) Top view.                                           (b) Side view. 
Fig. 8 Superhydrophobicity test of the surface coated by different formulae. 
 
 
 
 
(a) Type B and E.                                   (b) Type C and D. 
Fig. 9 Superhydrophobicity test of Plate A after 4 days of seawater immersion. 
 
 
 
 
(a) Type B and E.                                   (b) Type C and D. 
Fig. 10 Superhydrophobicity test of Plate B after 4 days of seawater immersion. 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/02/27
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 徑基底函數選點法結合領域擴充策略在具不規則幾何領域中之水動力問題的
應用
計畫主持人: 陳建宏
計畫編號: 96-2221-E-019-051-MY3 學門領域: 造船工程
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
兩岸研討會一場；亞太地區國際研討會一場。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
