 
中文關鍵詞： 行動電話、多重標準、極座標發射機、功率放大器、無線通
訊 
英 文 摘 要 ： Future mobile phones will need to support multiple 
wireless communication standards with a different set 
of specifications because many generations of mobile 
communication networks usually coexist in the same 
district. These requirements increase the complexity 
of mobile phones, especially for radio-frequency (RF) 
power amplifiers (PAs). However, the printed circuit 
board (PCB) of current smartphones such as Apple‘s 
iPhone is already incredibly small, not leaving any 
room for an extra chip of next generation 
applications without shrinking the battery size or 
increasing the phone size. In order to achieve a low-
cost and much simpler solution for integration, the 
number of power amplifier modules in a smartphone 
should be reduced and replaced two or more PAs by one 
single power amplifier re-used for all standards. 
Current third-generation (3G) PAs and future fourth-
generation (4G) PAs are very power-inefficient due to 
the use of linear RF PAs. Despite many efficiency-
enhanced techniques, such as the envelope elimination 
and restoration (EER) and the envelope-tracking (ET), 
the wide bandwidth supply modulators are still 
required in the envelope path to support the need of 
higher data-rate transmission for nowadays and future 
portable communications. As the supported channel 
bandwidth is getting larger, supply modulators become 
harder to be realized. Moreover, an additional low-
pass filter is needed to suppress the switching noise 
resulted from supply modulators. Therefore, it leads 
to large time delay causing the envelope and phase 
signals hard to synchronize, and is easy to lead to 
unwanted out-of-band emission. 
This project adopted the polar transmitter 
architecture. Unlike a conventional EER transmitter, 
a modification of EER, namely pulse-modulated polar 
transmitter (PMPT), was proposed to overcome the 
problem of synchronization between envelope and phase 
paths. Except for easy synchronization of envelope 
 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■成果報告   □期中進度報告 
 
多重行動電話標準之高效率極座標發射機 
High Efficiency Polar Transmitter for Multi-standard Cellular Phone 
 
計畫類別：□個別型計畫   ■整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC99－2220－E－002－017－ 
執行期間：98 年 8 月 1 日至 100 年 10 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立臺灣大學/電子工程學研究所 
 
計畫主持人：陳怡然 
共同主持人：陳昭宏、郭建宏 
計畫參與人員：楊濠瞬、施宏隆、林立偉、蔡凱宇 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  ■完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            ■涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，■一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國  100  年  11  月  30  日 
 III
中文摘要 
未來行動電話將會需要支援不同規範的多重無線通訊標準，這是由於許多世代的行動通訊網路
通常在同一個地區共存。除此之外，為了使行動電話使用者更為便利，漫遊是一個必須要的服務。
因此這些要求增加行動電話的複雜度，特別是射頻功率放大器。然而因為最近智慧型手機，如蘋果
公司的 iPhone，其印刷電路板已經極為狹小，在不縮減電池體積和在不增加手機尺寸下，已經沒
有留下任何空間可做下一世代額外晶片使用。為了增加設計的彈性和達到低成本及較簡易之整合解
決方案，智慧型手機內的功率放大器模組之數量需要減少，透過重複利用的方式用一個功率放大器
來取代兩個或是多個功率放大器來達到支援多重行動電話標準。 
 
最近市面上第三代行動通訊的功率放大器和未來第四代的行動通訊的功率放大器由於採用線
性射頻功率放大器導致其效率不彰。儘管有許多效率增進技術，如包絡消除和恢復、包絡追蹤，但
為了支援現今的高資料傳輸和未來的行動通訊，在包絡路徑上仍需要一個寬頻切換式電壓調變器。
隨著支援的通道頻寬越來越大，切換式電壓調變器也越來越難實現。此外還需要一個額外的低通濾
波器來抑制切換式電壓調變器所產生的切換雜訊。因此導致較長的時間延遲造成包絡和相位信號較
難同步，故較容易導致不想要的頻帶外附混波輻射。 
 
本計畫採用極座標發射機架構，因其不需要處理九十度相位差的 I/Q 信號，因此不會遭受如直
角座標架構之 I-Q 非理想性的影響。不像傳統的包絡消除和恢復發射機，本計畫提出一個修正版的
包絡消除和恢復之脈衝調變極座標發射機來克服包絡和相位信號同步的問題。除了使包絡和相位信
號更容易同步外，本計畫提出之脈衝調變極座標發射機的電源電壓不需要針對調變信號之即時包絡
進行追蹤。因此本計畫提出之脈衝調變極座標發射機既使在電源電壓接近膝點電壓也不會有線性度
的問題。加上本架構所使用的相位信號大小和電源電壓這兩路來控制平均輸出功率可以獨立運作跟
由包絡信號來控制即時輸出功率的路徑完全分離。因此此提出之技術能使本計畫的脈衝調變極座標
發射機達到足夠的寬動態輸出功率範圍。 
 
本研究總計畫將整合子計畫一的動態功率控制系統和直流對直流轉換器、子計畫二的高效率射
頻功率放大器和微型化功率結合器/分散器、子計畫三的脈衝寬度調變器和三角積分調變器成為一
個完整多重行動通訊標準之發射機系統。 
 
關鍵字：行動電話、多重標準、極座標發射機、功率放大器、無線通訊 
    1 
前言 
In order to support a high data rate uplink, the cellular standards employ spectral efficient 
modulation schemes where a non-constant envelope RF signal is used for transmission. For example, the 
Wideband Code Division Multiple Access (WCDMA) and Code Division Multiple Access 2000 
(CDMA2000) are theoretically capable to reach uplink data rates of 2Mbps. The variation of the RF 
envelope complicates the selection of the appropriate transmitter architecture and has a significant effect 
on the power consumption and system linearity of the transmitter. 
 
The selected architecture should also offer a multi-mode capability to the transmitter. The signal 
bandwidth in different modes may vary from a few hundred kilohertz (kHz) to several megahertz (MHz) 
while the vector space trajectory in the constellation diagram may have different characteristics. The RF 
signal envelope can either be constant or have big variations. Not only should the transmitter support all 
the different modes but actually use a single hardware function for all modalities. This hardware function 
should occupy the area as small as possible and meet the specifications of all standards. 
 
To increase the level of integration and decrease the power consumption of the transmitter, the 
CMOS technology is the device technology used in the proposed radio transmitter. However, the low 
breakdown voltage and the high substrate loss in CMOS silicon process present challenges for the RF 
power amplifier, the last stage in the proposed pulse-modulated polar transmitter (PMPT). Fortunately, 
power transistors technologies (HEMT in InGaP or AlGaAs, LDMOS, ...) nowadays are proven and are 
popular with commercial available components. In order to achieve higher efficiency and better reliability 
in the proposed PMPT, the power amplifiers are developed using commercially available enhancement- 
mode pseudomorphic high electron-mobility transistors (pHEMTs) and surface-mount devices (SMDs). 
 
One artifact of the proposed pulsed-modulated polar transmitter is the modulation spurs produced 
when representing a RF signal with a binary signal. In order to comply with the specification of 
communication standards and minimize the distortion, the proposed multi-phase pulse modulation 
technique was used to cancel several modulation spurs with enough PWM sampling frequency but as 
slow as possible. This appropriate PWM sampling frequency helps to reduce the rise/fall time distortion. 
Moreover, the requirement of output construction band-pass filter (BPF) is also alleviated. In addition, the 
binary envelope signal could be generated by the DSM; therefore, the DSM with a fast feedback approach 
and with a maximally-flat noise band was proposed to easily meet the spectrum mask. Consequently, the 
proposed PMPT in this project can meet the multi-standard specifications without the need of 
pre-distortion or calibration. 
    3 
文獻探討 
The power amplifier (PA) has long been known as the most power-consuming component in a 
radio-frequency (RF) transmitter. By improving the PA efficiency, the overall battery life can be greatly 
increased. Throughout the years, a lot of work has been done on improving the PA efficiency by 
operating it as a nonlinear switch [16]–[22]. However, for today’s high data-rate modulation schemes, 
linear power amplification is required. Various linear high-efficiency PA architectures have been 
addressed in [23]–[34] to achieve high-efficiency power amplification for modulated signals. The 
envelope elimination and restoration (EER) method first proposed in [23] is one such method that uses a 
power-efficient audio-frequency amplifier to modulate the output of a power-efficient RF PA. The EER 
method is capable of efficiently amplifying a single-sideband signal, which includes both amplitude 
modulation and phase modulation. By splitting the signal into phase and envelope components and 
amplifying the components separately, high overall power efficiency can be attained. A typical 
implementation of the EER method uses a highly efficient dynamic power-supply circuit to modulate the 
drain or collector of a nonlinear but highly efficient RF PA, as shown in [32]–[35]. A basic block diagram 
of a conventional implementation of the EER method is shown in Fig. 1. 
 
Fig. 1.  Block diagram of a conventional EER transmitter architecture. 
One of the major problems in implementing a Kahn EER transmitter is to synchronize the phase and 
envelope paths. For today’s complex digital-modulation schemes, misaligning the phase and envelope 
information may create unwanted out-of-band emissions. A conventional EER implementation, as shown 
in Fig. 1, uses an L-C low-pass filter to filter the output of the switching envelope amplifier or 
dynamic-bias circuit. The low-pass filter creates significant delay on the order of microseconds that 
requires the phase data to be delayed accordingly using digital shift registers. For these implementations, 
the phase information can be as much as 16 bits per clock. Using shift registers to store such data may 
significantly increase the area and cost of the transmitter. Recently, a modified EER architecture has been 
reported in [36]–[38], which uses a switch or mixer to modulate the input signal of the RF PA. The main 
    5 
研究方法 
Multi-level Digital Pulse-Width Modulation 
The pulse modulation of the input signal of a polar transmitter can be realized using PWM. Because 
of the sampling nature of PWM, the signal reconstructed by the PMPT may have unwanted out-of-band 
emissions at multiples of the PWM switching frequencies away from the carrier frequency. The 
characteristics of the harmonics have been discussed in detail in [56]. 
For wide bandwidth applications, conventional analog PWM may not be sufficiently linear such that 
additional pre-distortion may be required for implementing the polar transmitter. With the advancement 
of modern digital CMOS technology, it is now possible to implement DPWM using high clock rate 
digital counters. If a digital counter runs at a clock rate of fclk and counts to a maximum of N, the counter 
can then generate a PWM signal with sampling frequency, fPWM, of fclk/N, which has N+1 different pulse 
widths. For PMPT, it is desirable to have a high fPWM such that out-of-band emissions can be sufficiently 
filtered by external BPF at the output of the RF PA. For a constant fclk, a higher fPWM leads to a lower N 
and effectively reduces the resolution of the envelope signal. A lower resolution will lead to a higher 
noise level, which may cause the polar transmitter to fail certain spurious emission requirements. 
In this project, a multi-level PMPT is proposed. The basic method of implementation is shown in Fig. 
3. With multiple RF PAs in parallel, each controlled by a DPWM signal, the effective number of different 
pulse widths is increased from N+1 to M · N+1, where M is the number of PAs. This can be achieved 
while the clock frequency, fclk, and the PWM sampling frequency, fPWM, can remain unchanged. Therefore, 
by doubling the number of RF PAs using this method, the effective resolution can be increased by 
approximately a factor of two, which is the same as increasing one bit in the resolution of the envelope 
signal. An example of a dual-level DPWM signal is shown in Fig. 4. Multi-level pulse modulated signals 
combined with power combiners can lead to inherent power loss when only partial PAs are turned on. 
However, such loss can be negligible since the loss will only occur for at most one clock cycle of fclk for 
each PWM period as shown in Fig. 4, especially when the clock frequency, fclk, is high. 
 
Fig. 3.  Block diagram of a multi-level pulse-modulated EER transmitter. 
    7 
but was concluded as unattractive since the inter-modulation terms and spurious emissions were too high. 
With the use of the multi-phase technique in this paper, such unwanted spurious emissions can be greatly 
reduced. The authors have recently reported a multi-level PWM approach for implementing a PMPT in 
[59]. The use of multiple levels increases the effective resolution of the PWM, whereas the use of 
multi-phase PWM increases not only the effective resolution through oversampling but also reduces the 
harmonic components. Moreover, implementation of an N-level PWM system and an N-phase PWM 
system have similar complexity. Therefore, the multi-phase PWM approach can be viewed as an 
improvement over the multi-level PWM approach. 
 
Fig. 5.  Time-domain waveforms of multi-phase PWM for duty cycle D < 0.5 and D > 0.5. 
 
Using a CDMA2000 1X signal with 1.23-MHz bandwidth, simulations with real complex-modulated 
signals were carried out. It is shown that by increasing the number of phases, the harmonics close to the 
modulated carrier, which are large in magnitude, can be removed without the use of a filter, as shown in 
Fig. 6. 
 
Fig. 6.  Comparison of the simulated output spectra of various-phase PMPTs using a CDMA2000 signal. 
    9 
Wide Dynamic-Range Technique 
The EER technique has been a proven technique that is capable of improving the efficiency of the 
PA at power levels close to the maximum output power. Demonstrations for various standards with 
efficiencies in the 50% region have been reported in [61]–[64]. However, when operating under back off, 
the envelope amplifier must still operate under full speed, which degrades the overall efficiency. As a 
result, the efficiency of a conventional EER transmitter for wide bandwidth applications may drop almost 
as much as a linear PA under back off. The PAs for modern communication standards rarely operate close 
to the maximum output power level. Therefore, to achieve high peak efficiency and high average 
efficiency at the same time, a polar transmitter using concurrent dynamic supply modulation and input 
pulse modulation is proposed. The proposed transmitter seeks to combine the benefits of both a 
conventional EER transmitter and a PT PA. 
For a conventional EER transmitter, the output signal RFout(t) can be expressed as 
 
 
 
where E(t) is the envelope signal, Am cos(ωct +θ(t)) is the up-converted RF phase signal, Gconv is the gain 
of the RF PA that is dependent on the envelope signal, and Am is the magnitude of the RF phase signal. 
For an ideal EER transmitter, Gconv is completely linear. However, in an actual implementation, Gconv 
becomes highly nonlinear when E(t) approaches the knee voltage of the RF power transistor. As a result, 
conventional EER transmitters may require digital pre-distortion or calibration for communication 
standards with zero-crossing signals or when highly backed off. 
For the modified EER transmitter used in this work, the output signal RFout(t) after filtering can be 
expressed as 
 
 
where Gpulse is the gain of the RF PA that is dependent on the supply voltage VDD from the dc-dc 
converter, and Am, the magnitude of the RF phase signal. Unlike a conventional EER transmitter, the 
supply voltage does not change with respect to the instantaneous power level of the signal being 
transmitted. Therefore, the proposed transmitter does not have linearity concerns even when the supply 
voltage drops below the knee voltage. However, it is still desirable to keep the supply voltage over the 
knee voltage to ensure a positive PA power gain. Equation (9) also suggests that the average power level 
control using Am and VDD can be completely separated from the instantaneous power control using E(t). 
Therefore, as shown in Fig. 7, the pulse-modulated input signal is used to control the fast-varying 
instantaneous power level, whereas, a dc–dc converter is used to modulate the drain voltage of the RF PA 
according to the slow-varying average power level, which is called the power-level tracking (PT) 
    11 
simultaneously, as shown in Fig. 9(b). In this project, the coefficients b1= 0.5 and b2=1.5 are chosen to 
acquire the flattest noise gain at the interest band. Nevertheless, the resulting noise floor will be still too 
high to meet the requirements of spectrum mask. So, a 4-bit 16-level truncator is adopted in the presented 
delta-sigma modulator to suppress the noise floor at high frequencies. 
 
 
Fig. 8.  Architecture of the presented CIFB delta-sigma modulator. 
 
 
 
Fig. 9.  Magnitude responses of (a) NTF and (b) STF of the second-order delta-sigma modulator. 
    13 
Development of Dynamic Power Control Circuit and System for Multi-standard Polar Transmitter 
The polar transmitter IC was implemented using 0.18μm CMOS process. The chip micrograph and 
the PCB photo with this IC mounted are shown in Fig. 11. The chip was packaged in a plastic QFN44 
package. A PCB was implemented to interface the polar transmitter chip with the FPGA board and 
external highly-efficient PAs. To test the implemented system, the test vectors of the phase signal and 
pulsed envelope signal were loaded into the FPGA memory and then sent to the DAC inputs and switch 
inputs of the implemented chip. A programmable linear power supply was used to mimic a dc-dc 
converter to implement the power-level tracking PA. The overall transmitter was then evaluated with a 
spectrum analyzer. 
 
Fig. 11.  Chip micrograph and PCB photo of the polar transmitter with dynamic power control circuits. 
Development of RF Power Amplifier for Multi-standard Cellular Polar Transmitter 
As shown in Fig. 12, the class-C PAs and their pre-amplifiers are developed using commercially 
available enhancement-mode pHEMTs, surface-mount inductors, and surface-mount capacitors. A pair of 
commercially available single-pole single-throw (SPST) RF switches is used for pulse modulation on the 
modulated constant-envelope signal. The CMOS RF switches provide an isolation of 40 dB with an 
insertion loss of 0.8 dB and require 5 ns to switch on or off. The two-way lumped-element Wilkinson 
3-dB power splitter and combiner are used to split and combine the RF signals, and their measured return 
loss and isolation are better than 20 dB at the desired transmit band. 
 
Fig. 12.  PCB photo of the PAs, pre-amplifiers, RF switches, and power combiner/splitter 
    15 
requires very high PA linearity. With the use of the proposed technique, the measured transmitter output 
spectrum at the peak output power of 26 dBm for an EDGE signal is seen to pass the spectral 
requirements of EDGE, as shown in Fig. 15(b). To the authors’ knowledge, it is the first EER-based polar 
transmitter, which can meet the stringent EDGE output RF spectrum (ORFS), as defined in [71], without 
using pre-distortion, calibration, or feedback. 
 
  
 (a)                                        (b) 
Fig. 15. Measured PMPT output spectrum for (a) GSM & (b) EDGE signals using the multi-phase PWM. 
 
For GSM and EDGE handsets, the transmitter must ramp power up and down under time division 
multiple access (TDMA) scheme to prevent adjacent timeslot interference. If the transmitter turns on too 
slowly, the data at the beginning of the burst may be lost and the link quality is deteriorated. If the 
transmitters turn off too slowly, the user of the next timeslot in the TDMA frame will suffer interference. 
The measurement of power versus time during one burst in EDGE mode at the peak output power was 
seen to pass the requirement defined in [71], as shown in Fig. 16(a). 
To support high data-rate transmission, a spectrally efficient variable envelope modulation scheme, 
hybrid phase-shift keying (HPSK), is adopted for WCDMA. Spectral regrowth resulting from distortion 
of the cellular transmitter must be minimized, which leads to stringent linearity requirements. For 
WCDMA mobile terminals, the maximum allowable adjacent channel leakage ratio (ACLR1) and 
alternate channel leakage ratio (ACLR2), at offsets of 5 and 10 MHz are -33 and -43 dBc, respectively. 
For testing, a WCDMA voice signal with a channel bandwidth of 3.84 MHz was used to test the polar 
transmitter. The measured output spectrum of the proposed transmitter is shown in Fig. 16(b). The 
proposed transmitter can pass the ACLR requirements of WCDMA at the peak power of 25 dBm with the 
margin of at least 4.5 dB. Moreover, using a CDMA2000 signal with a channel bandwidth of 1.23 MHz 
to test the polar transmitter, the measured output spectrum of the proposed transmitter is shown in Fig. 
17(a). The proposed transmitter can pass the adjacent channel power ratio (ACPR1) -42 dBc and alternate 
channel power ratio (ACPR2) -54 dBc requirements of CDMA2000 at the peak power of 25.1 dBm. 
Furthermore, the Long Term Evolution (LTE) signal of the 4G communication standard was also tried to 
use to examine the ability of the proposed PMPT. As shown in Fig. 17(b), the proposed PMPT can meet 
    17 
Most linear high-efficiency transmitters can achieve excellent PAE at peak output power, but their 
efficiency degrades rapidly under back off [72]–[74]. Unfortunately, cellular handsets transmit signals at 
a power level around 0 dBm most of the time according to the probability density function of transmitted 
power reported in [75]. Therefore, it is crucial for a cellular phone transmitter to maintain high efficiency 
under back off. The measured PAE of the proposed polar transmitter for a back-off range of 40 dB from 
peak power is shown in Fig. 19(b). The peak PAE of the polar transmitter for the EDGE and WCDMA 
signals are 45.5% and 41.2%, respectively. The PAE at 12-dB back off from peak power for the EDGE 
and WCDMA signals are 33.5% and 32.4%, respectively. The PAE of a commercial linear PA is also 
measured with the EDGE and WCDMA signals. The PAE of the proposed transmitter is more than three 
times better than that of the commercial PA at 12-dB back off from peak output power. 
 
 
Fig. 18. Measured wideband-spectrum comparison of single-, two-, and four-phase PMPTs 
 
  
     (a)                                        (b) 
Fig. 19. Measured ACLR & PAE over wide dynamic ranges using (a) WCDMA (b) EDGE & WCDMA 
    19 
結論 
The state-of-the-art pulse-modulated polar transmitter including power amplifiers using the 
multi-phase PWM and the CIFB DSM in this project has been demonstrated for linear power 
amplification with high efficiency for multiple cellular phone standards. By using multi-phase pulse 
modulation, several of output modulation spurs on both sides of the transmit band can be cancelled, 
which eases spur filtering and signal restoring. The output power of the transmitter tested with the GSM, 
EDGE, WCDMA, CDMA2000, and LTE signals at 836.5 MHz is 28, 26, 25, 25.1, and 23.6 dBm, 
respectively. The delivered output power conforms to GSM class 5, EDGE class E2, WCDMA class 3, 
CDMA2000 class III, and LTE class 3 standards. In addition, the transmitter can pass the stringent 
WCDMA ACLR and EDGE ORFS with plenty of margin without the need of pre-distortion or calibration. 
Moreover, up to 80 dB of output dynamic range can be achieved by the proposed PMPT, while exhibiting 
excellent PAE and slow efficiency degradation resulted from output power back off. 
During project execution, the authors published 19 papers in international journals and 10 
contributions in conference proceedings and have three US patents pending. 
 
參考文獻 
[1] G. Zhang, S. Khesbak, A. Agarwal, and S. Chin, “Evolution of RFIC handset PAs,” IEEE Microw. 
Mag., vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 60–69, Feb. 2010. 
[2] “Power amplifier module,” Skyworks, Woburn, MA, SKY77336 Data Sheet, Mar. 2, 2009. 
[Online]. Available: http://www.skyworksinc.com 
[3] G. Norris, J. Staudinger, J.-H. Chen, C. Rey, P. Pratt, R. Sherman, and H. Fraz, “Application of 
digital adaptive pre-distortion to mobile wireless devices,” in IEEE Radio Freq. Integr. Circuits 
Symp. Dig., Jun. 2007, pp. 247–250. 
[4] L. R. Kahn, “Single-sideband transmission by envelope elimination and restoration,” Proc. IRE, vol. 
40, no. 7, pp. 803–806, Jul. 1952. 
[5] T. Sowlati, D. Rozenblit, R. Pullela, M. Damgaard, E. McCarthy, D. Koh, D. Ripley, F. Balteanu, 
and I. Gheorghe, “Quad-band GSM/GPRS/EDGE polar loop transmitter,” IEEE J. Solid-State 
Circuits, vol. 39, no. 12, pp. 2179–2189, Dec. 2004. 
[6] C. D. Presti, F. Carrara, A. Scuderi, P. M. Asbeck, and G. Palmisano, “A 25 dBm digitally 
modulated CMOS power amplifier for WCDMA/EDGE/OFDM with adaptive digital predistortion 
and efficient power control,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 44, no. 7, pp. 1883–1896, Jul. 2009. 
[7] J. Choi, D. Kim, D. Kang, and B. Kim, “A polar transmitter with CMOS programmable 
hysteretic-controlled hybrid switching supply modulator for multistandard applications,” IEEE 
Trans. Microw. Theory Tech., vol. 57, no. 7, pp. 1675–1684, Jul. 2009. 
    21 
[24] H. Chireix, “High power outphasing modulation,” Proc. IRE, vol. 23, no. 11, pp. 1370–1392, Nov. 
1935. 
[25] W. H. Doherty, “A new high efficiency power amplifier for modulated waves,” Proc. IRE, vol. 24, 
no. 9, pp. 1163–1182, Sep. 1936. 
[26] J. Staudinger, T. Quach, and R. Sherman, “Gate and drain power tracking methods enhance 
efficiency in reverse link CDMA amplifiers,” Appl. Microw. Wireless Mag., vol. 12, no. 3, pp. 
28–38, Mar. 2002. 
[27] J. Staudinger, B. Gilsdorf, D. Newman, G. Norris, G. Sadowniczak, R. Sherman, and T. Quach, 
“High efficiency CDMA power amplifier using dynamic envelope tracking technique,” in Proc. 
IEEE MTT-S Int. Microw. Symp. Dig., Jun. 2000, vol. 2, pp. 873–876. 
[28] X. Zhang, L. E. Larson, P. M. Asbeck, and R. A. Langridge, “Analysis of power recycling 
techniques for RF and microwave outphasing power amplifiers,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. II, 
Analog Digit. Signal Process., vol. 49, no. 5, pp. 312–320, May 2002. 
[29] C.-J. Li, C.-T. Chen, T.-S. Horng, J.-K. Jau, and J.-Y. Li, “High average-efficiency multimode RF 
transmitter using a hybrid quadrature polar modulator,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. II, Exp. Briefs, 
vol. 55, no. 3, pp. 249–253, Mar. 2008. 
[30] W. Liu, J. Lau, and R. S. Cheng, “Considerations on applying OFDM in a highly efficient power 
amplifier,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. II, Analog Digit. Signal Process., vol. 46, no. 11, pp. 
1329–1336, Nov. 1999. 
[31] D. Milosevic, J. van der Tang, and A. van Roermund, “Intermodulation products in EER technique 
applied to class-E amplifiers,” in Proc. Int. Symp. Circuits Syst., May 2004, vol. 1, pp. 637–640. 
[32] J.-H. Chen, K. U-Yen, and J. S. Kenney, “An envelope elimination and restoration power amplifier 
using a CMOS dynamic power supply circuit,” in Proc. IEEE MTT-S Int. Microw. Symp. Dig., Jun. 
2004, vol. 3, pp. 1519–1522. 
[33] F. Wang, D. Kimball, J. Popp, A. Yang, D. Lie, P. Asbeck, and L. Larson, “Wideband envelope 
elimination and restoration power amplifier with high efficiency wideband envelope amplifier for 
WLAN 802.11g applications,” in Proc. IEEE MTT-S Int. Microw. Symp. Dig., Jun. 2005, vol. 2, pp. 
645–648. 
[34] J.-H. Chen, P. Fedorenko, and J. S. Kenney, “A low voltage W-CDMA polar transmitter with digital 
envelope path gain compensation,” IEEE Microw.Wireless Compon. Lett., vol. 16, no. 7, pp. 
428–430, Jul. 2006. 
[35] M.-C. Lee, T.-W. Kwak, B.-K. Choi, and G.-H. Cho, “A 4-W master–slave switching amplitude 
modulator for class-E1 EDGE polar transmitter,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. II, Exp. Briefs, vol. 55, 
no. 5, pp. 484–488, May 2008. 
[36] Y.Wang, “An improved Kahn transmitter architecture based on Delta-Sigma modulation,” in IEEE 
MTT-S Int. Dig., Jun. 2003, vol. 3, pp. 1327–1330. 
[37] M. Taromaru, N. Ando, T. Kodera, and K. Yano, “An EER transmitter architecture with burst-width 
envelope modulation based on trianglewave comparison PWM,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp. PIMRC, 
Sep. 2007, pp. 1–5. 
    23 
[53] A. Frappé, A. Flament, B. Stefanelli, A. Kaiser, and A. Cathelin, “An all-digital RF signal generator 
using high-speed ΣΔ modulators,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 44, no. 10, pp. 2722–2732, 
October 2009. 
[54] W. Y. Kim, K. Y. Kim, S. T. Ryu, J. K. Jung, and C. S. Park,“ 1-bit and multi-bit envelope 
delta-sigma modulators for CDMA polar transmitter,” in Asia-Pacific Microw. Conf., 2008, pp. 1–4. 
[55] I. Hibon, C. Berland, D. Pache, M. Villegas, D. Belot, and V. Le Goascoz, “Linear transmitter 
architecture using a 1-bit ΔΣ,” in the European Conf. on Wireless Tech., 2005, pp. 321–323. 
[56] M. Taromaru, N. Ando, T. Kodera, and K. Yano, “An EER transmitter architecture with burst-width 
envelope modulation based on trianglewave comparison PWM,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp. PIMRC, 
Sep. 2007, pp. 1–5. 
[57] E. R. Kretzmer, “Distortion in pulse-duration modulation,” Proc. IRE, vol. 35, no. 11, pp. 
1230–1235, Nov. 1947. 
[58] C. Berland, I. Hibon, J. F. Bercher,M. Villegas, D. Belot, D. Pache, and V. Le Goascoz, “A 
transmitter architecture for nonconstant envelope modulation,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. II, Exp. 
Briefs, vol. 53, no. 1, pp. 13–17, Jan. 2006. 
[59] J.-H. Chen, H.-S. Yang, and Y.-J. E. Chen, “A multi-level pulse modulated polar transmitter using 
digital pulse-width modulation,” IEEE Microw. Wireless Compon. Lett., vol. 20, no. 5, pp. 295–297, 
May 2010. 
[60] X. Zhang, L. E. Larson, P. M. Asbeck, and R. A. Langridge, “Analysis of power recycling 
techniques for RF and microwave outphasing power amplifiers,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. II, 
Analog Digit. Signal Process., vol. 49, no. 5, pp. 312–320, May 2002. 
[61] J.-H. Chen, K. U-yen, and J. S. Kenney, “An envelope elimination and restoration power amplifier 
using a CMOS dynamic power supply circuit,” in IEEE MTT-S Int. Microw. Symp. Dig., Jun. 2004, 
vol. 3, pp. 1519–1522. 
[62] J.-H. Chen, P. Fedorenko, and J. S. Kenney, “A low voltage W-CDMA polar transmitter with digital 
envelope path gain compensation,” IEEE Microw.Wireless Compon. Lett., vol. 16, no. 7, pp. 
428–431, Jul. 2006. 
[63] C.-T. Chen, C.-J Li, T.-S. Horng, J.-K. Jau, and J.-Y Li, “Design and linearization of class-E power 
amplifier for nonconstant envelope modulation,” IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Tech., vol. 57, no. 4, 
pp. 956–967, Apr. 2009. 
[64] J. Choi, D. Kim, D. Kang, and B. Kim, “A polar transmitter with CMOS programmable 
hysteretic-controlled hybrid switching supply modulator for multistandard applications,” IEEE 
Trans. Microw. Theory Tech., vol. 57, no. 7, pp. 1675–1684, Jul. 2009. 
[65] J. Staudinger, T. Quach, and R. Sherman, “Gate and drain power tracking methods enhance 
efficiency in reverse link CDMA amplifiers,” Appl. Microw. Wireless Mag., pp. 28–38, Mar. 2002. 
[66] J. Staudinger, B. Gilsdorf, D. Newman, G. Norris, G. Sadowniczak, R. Sherman, and T. Quach, 
“High efficiency CDMA power amplifier using dynamic envelope tracking technique,” in IEEE 
MTT-S Int. Microw. Symp. Dig., Jun. 2000, vol. 2, pp. 873–876. 
    25 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
█ 達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：█已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 █申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 █洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
已發表相關期刊論文 21 篇，國際會議論文 11 篇，另有 3 件專利申請中。 
    27 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表 
日期：101 年 12 月 1 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：多重行動電話標準之高效率極座標發射機 
計畫主持人：陳怡然 
計畫編號：99－2220－E－002－017   領域：微電子/通信 
研發成果名稱 
（中文）多重行動電話標準之高效率極座標發射機 
（英文）High Efficiency Polar Transmitter for Multi-standard Cellular 
Phone 
成果歸屬機構 台灣大學 發明人 (創作人) 
陳昭宏、陳怡然 
技術說明 
（中文）本計畫所發展出的脈衝調變極座標發射機架，使用射頻
信號處理技術來達成線性功率放大，同時又保有極高的效率，並
能通過 GSM/EDGE/CDMA/WCDMA 多重手機標準。目前市面上之智慧
型手機都需支援 GSM/EDGE/CDMA/WCDMA 多重手機標準，但現有的
射頻功率放大器無法同時達到高效率且高線性度的功率放大，因
此智慧型手機都需使用多顆不同的射頻功率放大器晶片，如 Apple 
iPhone 4 裡面就用了五顆射頻功率放大器 IC，其中一顆較大的 IC
實際上是使用 system-in-package 的技術將兩個射頻功率放大器
晶片整合在同一個封裝中。本論文所發表的射頻極座標發射機技
術可將 iPhone 4 內的 5~6 顆射頻功率放大器晶片縮減為 1~2 顆，
而且其效率在平均發射功率（手機最經常發射的功率）遠勝於商
用的射頻功率放大器。 
（英文）The proposed Pulse-Modulated Polar Transmitter 
(PMPT) can achieve high linearity while maintain high 
efficiency at the same time by using RF signal processing
to do power amplification of modulated RF signals. The polar 
transmitter can pass the multiple mobile communication 
standards from 2G to 3G, including GSM/EDGE/CDMA/WCDMA. The 
smart phones on the market need to support the multiple 
mobile phone standards. Since there is no reliable power 
amplifier technology viable, which can support 
GSM/EDGE/CDMA/WCDMA at the same time while maintaining 
acceptable efficiency, all of the smart phones need 5~6 power 
amplifiers although the system-in-package technology has 
been used to integrate two PAs in one package. The PMPT can 
reduce the number of the PAs in a smart phone, like iPhone 
4, from 5~6 to 1~2. The power added efficiency of the PMPT 
at the average power level which a cell phone transmits the 
signal most often is far higher than the commercial PAs on 
the market. 
    29 
附錄 (本計畫已發表之論文) 
Related Publications in International Journal: 
[1] Y.-H. Yu and Y.-J. E. Chen, "Divide-by-four frequency divider in poly-Si thin film transistor 
technology," IET Electronics Letters, vol. 45, no. 22, pp. 1122-1124, Oct. 2009. 
[2] Pang-Jung Liu and Yi-Jan Emery Chen, “A linearly adaptive gate drive technique for light-load 
efficiency improvement of DC–DC converters,” Intern. Journal of Circuit Theory & Applications, 
vol. 37, no. 10, pp. 1063-1073, Dec. 2009. 
[3] Chih-Wei Chang and Yi-Jan Emery Chen, “A CMOS True Single-Phase-Clock Divider With 
Differential Outputs,” IEEE Microwave and Wireless Components Letters, vol. 19, no. 12, pp. 
813-815, Dec. 2009. 
[4] Yueh-Hua Yu, Yong-Sian Yang, and Chen, Yi-Jan Emery Chen, “A Compact Wideband CMOS 
Low Noise Amplifier With Gain Flatness Enhancement,” IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuits, vol. 
45, no. 3, pp. 502-509, Mar. 2010. 
[5] Jau-Horng Chen, Pang-Jung Liu, Yu-Ling Hung, Hao-Shun Yang, and Yi-Jan Emery Chen, “A 
Spur-Reduced Multimode Power-Level Tracking Power Amplifier Using a Frequency-Hopping 
DC–DC Converter,” IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques, vol. 58, no. 5, pp. 
1333-1338, May 2010. 
[6] J.-H. Chen, H.-S. Yang, and Y.-J. E. Chen, “A multi-level pulse modulated polar transmitter using 
digital pulse-width modulation,” IEEE Microwave and Wireless Components Letters, vol. 20, no. 5, 
pp. 295-297, May 2010. 
[7] J.-H. Chen, H.-S. Yang, and Y.-J. E. Chen, “A technique for implementing wide dynamic-range 
polar transmitters,” IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques, vol. 58, no. 9, pp. 
2368-2374, Sep. 2010. 
[8] Chien-Hung Kuo, Deng-Yao Shi, and Kang-Shuo Chang, “A Low-Voltage Fourth-Order Cascade 
Delta-Sigma Modulator in 0.18 um CMOS,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. I, Reg. Papers, vol. 57, no. 
9, pp. 2450-2461, Sep. 2010. 
[9] J.-H. Chen, “An efficiency-improved outphasing power amplifier using RF pulse modulation,” 
IEEE Microwave and Wireless Components Letters, vol. 20, no. 12, pp. 684-686, Dec. 2010. 
[10] Yueh-Hua Yu, Wei-Hong Hsu, and Yi-Jan Emery Chen, “A Ka-Band Low Noise Amplifier Using 
Forward Combining Technique,” IEEE Microwave and Wireless Components Letters, vol. 20, no. 
12, pp. 672-674, Dec. 2010. 
[11] Jaeyoung Jung, Siqi Zhu, Peng Liu, Yi-Jan Emery Chen, and Deukhyoun Heo, “22-pJ/bit 
Energy-Efficient 2.4-GHz Implantable OOK Transmitter for Wireless Biotelemetry Systems: In 
Vitro Experiments Using Rat Skin-Mimic,” IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and 
Techniques, vol. 58, no. 12, pp. 4102-4111, Dec. 2010. 
    31 
[25] Jaeyoung Jung, Siqi Zhu, Peng Liu, Le Wang, Tang-Nian Luo, Yi-Jan Chen, and Deukhyoun Heo, 
“Energy Efficient 136 Mb/s OOK Implantable Transmitter for Wireless Brain Computer Interface,” 
IEEE MTT-S International Microwave Symposium, May 2010, pp. 1604-1607. 
[26] Peng Liu, Parag Upadhyaya, Jaeyoung Jung, Tang-Nian Luo, Yi-Jan Chen, and Deukhyoun Heo, 
“Low Phase Noise Load Independent Switched LC VCO,” IEEE MTT-S International Microwave 
Symposium, May 2010, pp. 280-283. 
[27] M. Masood, B. Gray, R. Melville, M. Omer, J.-H. Chen, and J. S. Kenney, "Modeling and 
linearization of a parametric power upconverting amplifier," IEEE European Microwave 
Conference (EuMC), Nov. 2010, pp. 1026-1029. 
[28] K.-Y. Tsai, H.-S. Yang, J.-H. Chen, and Y.-J. E. Chen, "A miniaturized branch-line coupler using 
finger-shape distributed capacitors," in Proc. IEEE Asia Pacific Microwave Conference, Dec. 2010, 
pp. 1240-1243. 
[29] H.-C. Lin and J.-H. Chen, “System-level requirements for implementing wide dynamic range 
pulse-modulated polar transmitters,” IEEE Radio and Wireless Symposium (RWS), Jan. 2011, pp. 
319-322. 
[30] Chien-Hung Kuo and Shu-Li Liao, “An All-Digital ΔΣ Envelope Modulator for EER-Based 
Transmitters Based on CMOS Standard Cell Design,” the 9th IEEE International NEWCAS 
Conference, Jun. 2011, pp. 325-328. 
[31] Chien-Hung Kuo and Cheng-En Hsieh, “A High Energy-Efficiency SAR ADC Based on Partial 
Floating Capacitor Switching Technique,” in Proc. IEEE ESSCIRC, Helsinki, Sep. 2011, pp. 
475-478. 
[32] Y.-H. Yu, J.-H. Chen, and Y.-J. E. Chen, " A 90 nm CMOS Wideband Low Noise Amplifier using 
Bandwidth Extension Technique," in Proc. IEEE Asia Pacific Microwave Conference, Dec. 2011. 
 
 
也是一個重要的國際會議。今年會議是在天氣良好的 Phoenix 舉行，雖然是冬季
但氣候宜人，是著名的避寒勝地，但也因此旅館價格在冬季是相當昂貴的。 
今年參加 RWW 有多重目的，首先是與國科會計畫的國際合作團隊做年度的
技術交流，再者是參加 IEEE MTT-S 最重要的國際會議 International Microwave 
Symposium (IMS)的技術議程會議，同時也幫 RWS 的技術議程擔任 Session Chair
的工作，因此相當忙碌也相當充實。 
國科會計畫國際合作的技術交流對象是 Texas Tech University 的 Professor 
Donald Lie。Prof. Lie 其實是畢業於台大電機系，與本人為大學同學，因此溝通
合作相對容易，而 Prof. Lie 也是 SiRF 的技術議程委員，每年都會參加 SiRF，因
此將國際合作技術交流與協調訂在 RWW，以避免日期安排的困難。Prof. Lie 從
事許多無線通信的射頻功率放大器的研究，在加入Texas Tech前便參與University 
of California, San Diego 的 Prof. Larson 在這方面的研究，因此是相當有經驗的專
家，雖然Prof. Lie與我們所採用的技術不盡相同，但許多技術瓶頸卻是一樣的，
所以相互的討論仍激發許多想法。Prof. Lie 在美國所爭取到的計畫金額與資源，
當然較本計畫來得多很多，因此已建構不錯的量測實驗室，但我們在有限的資源
下，抱持勤儉建軍的精神，也建置了基礎的收機發射機的量測能量，甚至可進行
一些 Prof. Lie 實驗室尚無的量測項目，對此頗另 Prof. Lie 刮目相看。 
除了國際交流外，另一個重點是參加 MTT-S IMS 的技術議程會議，在 MTT-S
都認為能參加 IMS 的技術議程委員是特殊的榮譽，因此能受邀參加並不容易，
許多委員都是 IEEE Fellow，而在會議中也遇到莊晴光教授及王暉教授。技術議
程會議主要是討論要接受那些投稿到 IMS 的論文，並安排 IMS 的技術議程，以
及在 IMS 其間所需要擔任的職務，今年剛好排到要在今年六月的 IMS 擔任
Session Co-chair。 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/02/13
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 總計畫(2/2)
計畫主持人: 陳怡然
計畫編號: 99-2220-E-002-017- 學門領域: 晶片科技計畫--整合型學術研究
計畫 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 多重行動電話標準之高效率極座標發射機
(英文) High Efficiency Polar Transmitter for Multi-standard Cellular Phone
成果歸屬機構
國立臺灣大學 發明人
(創作人)
陳怡然,陳昭宏
技術說明
(中文) 本計畫所發展出的脈衝調變極座標發射機架，使用射頻信號處理技術來達成線性
功率放大，同時又保有極高的效率，並能通過GSM/EDGE/CDMA/WCDMA多重手機標
準。目前市面上之智慧型手機都需支援GSM/EDGE/CDMA/WCDMA多重手機標準，但
現有的射頻功率放大器無法同時達到高效率且高線性度的功率放大，因此智慧型
手機都需使用多顆不同的射頻功率放大器晶片，如Apple iPhone 4裡面就用了五
顆射頻功率放大器IC，其中一顆較大的IC實際上是使用system-in-package的技
術將兩個射頻功率放大器晶片整合在同一個封裝中。本論文所發表的射頻極座標
發射機技術可將iPhone 4內的5~6顆射頻功率放大器晶片縮減為1~2顆，而且其效
率在平均發射功率（手機最經常發射的功率）遠勝於商用的射頻功率放大器。
(英文) The proposed Pulse-Modulated Polar Transmitter (PMPT) can achieve high linearity 
while maintain high efficiency at the same time by using RF signal processing to do 
power amplification of modulated RF signals. The polar transmitter can pass the multiple 
mobile communication standards from 2G to 3G, including 
GSM/EDGE/CDMA/WCDMA. The smart phones on the market need to support the 
multiple mobile phone standards. Since there is no reliable power amplifier technology 
viable, which can support GSM/EDGE/CDMA/WCDMA at the same time while 
maintaining acceptable efficiency, all of the smart phones need 5~6 power amplifiers 
although the system-in-package technology has been used to integrate two PAs in one 
package. The PMPT can reduce the number of the PAs in a smart phone, like iPhone 4, 
from 5~6 to 1~2. The power added efficiency of the PMPT at the average power level 
which a cell phone transmits the signal most often is far higher than the commercial PAs 
on the market.
產業別 電信業；研究發展服務業；電信工程業
技術/產品應用範圍 手機、行動基地台、無線網路收發機
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
本計畫所發展出的脈衝調變極座標發射機可廣泛應用於各種無線通信之發射機，尤其是
產值最大的智慧型手機，其效益可看Apple, HTC, Samsung, Noki, LG的手機營收即可略
窺一二。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
100 年旺宏金矽獎銅獎 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
