 2
Obviously, the requirement of a reference 
beam in the image space that is coherent with 
the object beam limits the usefulness of this 
scheme. Accordingly Ikeda et al.6 proposed a 
revised version of this scheme. In their method 
a point reflector is set in the image space to 
reflect the object light backward, making it as a 
coherent reference light source. On the other 
hand, MacDonald et al.8 put the point reference 
source in the object space instead of the image 
space. In other words, both of the object light 
and the reference light pass the turbulent 
medium from the same side and interfere in the 
holographic material. The final undisturbed 
image is obtained by reading the hologram 
with a third light beam which can be 
incoherent with the object light. All of the 
above methods require setting up something in 
the object space and thus obviously limits their 
applications.  To achieve one way imaging 
through a thick turbulent medium, another 
scheme based on phase subtraction of FWM 
was proposed 9,11. In this scheme the reference 
beam and object beam both travel through the 
turbulent medium collinearly. The phase 
distortion is then removed by FWM behind the 
turbulent medium. Because the object beam 
and reference beam travel nearly a common 
path, they experience nearly the same phase 
distortion which can be caused by a thin or a 
thick turbulent medium. Another issue in 
imaging through thick turbulent medium is 
apodization. The apodization due to a thin 
turbulent medium can be ignored.5 For a thick 
turbulent medium, it is very difficult to obtain 
an image without apodization. However, the 
apodization effect can be reduced if the thick 
turbulent medium is dynamic and its 
fluctuation time scale is much shorter than the 
recording time of the holographic material.2 
These conditions are met in most holographic 
schemes when the dynamic distortion is due to 
atmospheric fluctuation. Taking the advantage 
that the intensity of an image rather than its 
phase is most concerned in an imaging system, 
Zhang et al. proposed schemes for one-way 
imaging in which the function of the object 
light is to erase some pre-written gratings in a 
holographic material. The process in these 
schemes is similar to that of the photorefractive 
incoherent-to-coherent optical converter 
(PICOC). The pre-written gratings are formed 
via FWM or fanning effect, depending on the 
experimental setups. In this way, the system 
ignores the phase of the object light, and the 
intensity distribution of the output light is 
modulated by the object light; that is, the 
output light reproduces the light intensity of 
the object light.   This recording process can 
be carried out with laser light as well as with a 
beam of white light. Since the building of these 
gratings is via photorefractive effect, if the 
light beam building the grating changes faster 
than the response time of the photorefractive 
crystal, a successful recording would not be 
achieved. This feature may be a shortcoming 
for some applications. However, it becomes an 
advantage for sorting out the genuine image of 
an object behind a stream of turbulent air from 
the various distorted images. We think that 
although the object beam, after crossing the 
phase distorting stream, is distorted most of the 
time, it may escape the distorting effect 
imposed upon it in a series of short periods of 
time staying more or less in its original form. 
Since the fluctuation time of the air turbulence 
is much shorter than the response time of the 
LiNbO3 crystal and the distortion of the image 
is random, the crystal thus ignores this group 
of distorted images and virtually records only 
those images that are close to the original 
image because the recording is accumulative. 
In this way, we have succeeded in obtaining 
the original object behind the stream of 
turbulent air.   
 
REFERENCES 
1. J. W. Goodman, W. H. Huntley, D. W. J. 
Jr., and M. Lehmann, 
"Wavefront-reconstruction image through 
random media," Appl. Phys. Lett. 8(12), 
311-313 (1966). 
2. J. D. Gaskill, "Imaging through a 
randomly inhomogeneous medium by 
wavefront reconstruction," J. Opt. Soc. 
Am. 58(5), 600-608 (1968). 
3. A. Yariv and T. L. Koch, "One-way 
coherent imaging through a distorting 
medium using four-wave mixing," Opt. 
Lett. 7(3), 113-115 (1982). 
4. B. Fischer, M. Cronin-Golomb, J. O. 
White, and A. Yariv, "Real-time phase 
conjugate window for one-way optical 
field imaging through a distortion," Appl. 
Phys. Lett. 41(2), 141-143 (1982). 
5. J. Feinberg, "Imaging through a distorting 
medium with and without phase 
conjugation," Appl. Phys. Lett. 42(1), 
30-32 (1983). 
6. O. Ikeda, T. Suzuki, and T. Sato, "Image 
transmission through a turbulent medium 
using a point reflector and four-wave 
mixing in BSO crystal," Appl. Opt. 22(14), 
2192-2195 (1983). 
7. O. Ikeda, T. Sato, and M. Takehara, 
"Image transmission through a turbulent 
medium using a point reflector and 
four-wave mixing. 2: Characteristics of 
the system," Appl. Opt. 22(22), 
3562-3568 (1983). 
8. K. R. MacDonald, W. R. Tompkin, and R. 
W. Boyd, "Passive one-way aberration 
correction using four-wave mixing," Opt. 
Lett. 13(6), 485-487 (1988). 
