1   Introduction 
Ovarian cancer is one of the primary gynecological cancers to cause death in many countries [1], 
especially in the United States, Canada and Europe [2]. In the comparisons of 97% ovarian tumor 
cases, ovarian cancer can be classified into three major pathological stages: benign, borderline 
and invasive stages. It is more difficult to diagnose the symptom before the benign tumors 
becoming malignancies than other gynecological cancers, and the overall 5-year survival rate is 
about 46% [3]. Hence, how to diagnose the ovarian cancer before entering the invasive stages is 
very important. In recent years, many researchers have discovered many oncogenes which are 
related to ovarian cancer and have different gene expressions for different pathological stages in 
biological experiments. This paper uses support vector machine and statistical methods to analyze 
the expressions of a great deal of genes to find the high related genes to help cancer researchers 
find the more useful gene markers and also to assist doctors diagnose the ovarian cancer more 
precisely. 
In many research papers about ovarian cancer, the relationship between gene expressions and 
ovarian cancer has been reported [7-12]. These papers present important and useful information 
for some ovarian cancer and more specific markers have been discovered from many gene 
expression analysis and identification. The researchers discovered the ovarian cancer specific 
markers by distinguish the difference of gene expressions at different pathogenic stages of 
ovarian cancer. Analyzing the difference of gene expressions at each pathogenic stage is also 
helpful to describe the sequential states from benign to invasive tissue. 
Microarray is a popular and useful tool to analyze the gene expressions. This technology helps 
cancer researchers to distinguish the difference of gene expressions profile between normal and 
malignant tissues [6]. Furthermore, microarray datasets also are useful for classifying tumors by 
their expression profiles and provide useful biological, prognostic and diagnostic information for 
mechanistic research and contrivance [3]. Most microarray databases usually include tens of 
thousands of genes extracted from many anamnesis data. Identifying the cancer specific gene 
markers from a large number of data by manpower is imprecise, expensive and time consuming. 
Hence, we can perform this work by computer science techniques to get more performance, and 
further to develop therapy software systems for assisting diagnosis and therapy. 
In this paper, the ovarian cDNA expression database is obtained from ovarian tissues of patients 
and collected in years 2001-2003 under collaborative efforts of surgical and pathological units at 
China Medical University Hospital in Taiwan. This database includes ovarian cDNA expression 
datasets of 30 patients, and each sample includes 9,600 genes. The pathogenic stages of ovarian 
cancer include benign ovarian tumor (OVT), borderline tumor (BOT), ovarian cancer at stage I 
(OVCA-I), and ovarian cancer at stage III (OVCA-III). The number of samples for OVT, BOT, 
OVCA-I and OVCA-III is 8, 6, 7 and 9, respectively. In statistics, when the number of samples is 
more than thirty, the samples are enough to represent the population. Hence, the size of our 
ovarian cDNA expression database is large enough to be analyzed in statistical methods and can 
provide reliable analysis results. The analysis methods include two stages: the first stage is 
preprocessing stage for culling the most of nonspecific genes, and the second stage uses 
classification method to identify the oncogenes which might be the ovarian cancer specific 
markers. Because of our database includes 9,600 genes, it is too much for analyzing. At the first 
and this error is called “Type II error”. In practice, ANOVA uses pairwise t-tests to test the 
differences in more than two populations. 
In this paper, ANOVA is used to test and distinguish the difference of gene expressions at OVT, 
BOT, OVCA-I and OVCA-III stages. When a gene which have specific different between each 
pathological stage, it can be used to classify each pathological stage more easily. Hence, ANOVA 
is an important and useful preprocessing method for selecting these suspect disease linked genes, 
and let the following classification procedure perform effectively to get the oncogenes to be 
ovarian cancer specific marks. 
2.3   Support Vector Machine (SVM) 
Support vector machine (SVM) is a superior learning algorithm based on statistical theory 
proposed by Vapnik and collaborators [13, 14]. In recent years, SVM is generally applied in 
bioinformatics, pattern recognition, feature classification and function approximation. SVM is 
based on the idea of structured risk minimization on a nested set structure of separating 
hyperplanes. SVM maps the nonlinear feature space to the linear feature space, the linear feature 
space is in high dimensional space where the classification becomes efficiently and precisely. 
In general, when SVM in binary classification condition, the sample data set 
{( , ) | 1, 2,..., },  R ,  R,ni i i iS x y i l x y= = ∈ ∈  that xi denotes the ith input pattern with n tuples, 
and {1, 1},iy ∈ − is the ith output result. According to above factors, the trained SVM should 
minimize the generalization error, or at least minimizes an upper bound on it. It is shown that the 
hyperplane with this property is the one that leaves the maximum margin between the two classes. 
Given a new data z to classify, the optimal function can be described as follow: 
1
( ) sign , .
l
i i i
i
f z y x z bα
=
⎛ ⎞= +⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠∑  (2) 
3   Methods and Analyzed Results 
Microarray chips include many fluorescence spot ellipses to measure the expression intensities of 
different genes. Before hybridizing, the researches should determine which genes they want to 
measure and locate each gene on the microarray chip. Generally speaking, the microarray 
datasets must include the samples of different pathological stages for distinguishing the gene 
expression of each stage. The most common method of estimating the gene expression is 
determined by the mean fluorescence intensities of the all pixels within the spot ellipse. The gene 
expressions which are extracted from the normal and cancerous cases are defined as NEI and CEI. 
In order to let the gene expressions have consistent base, the background value of normal and 
cancerous cases are defined as NEB and CEB. The normalized gene expressions NNEI and NCEI 
can be obtained by Equation (4). In our ovarian cDNA expression database, the gene expressions 
are calculated by Equation (5) and are stored in decimal fraction form. 
,
.
NNEI NEI NEB
NCEI CEI CEB
= −
= −  (3) 
datasets of these 14 genes into 5 conditions by BOT, respectively. The gene expression datasets of 
14 genes analyzed by ANOVA are going to train SVM. After training SVM, the optimal decision 
function f (x) also can be obtained. Consequently, the testing datasets can be classified by the 
optimal decision function f (x) with 5 classified conditions by BOT. 
Considering the classified conditions, there are 5 classified conditions which are: 
C : BOT1Classifier 1 
C :  OVT, OVCA-I, OVCA-III2
⎧⎪⎨⎪⎩
, C : OVT,BOT, OVCA-I1Classifier 2 
C :  OVCA-III2
⎧⎪⎨⎪⎩
, 
C : OVT,BOT1Classifier 3 
C :  OVCA-I, OVCA-III2
⎧⎪⎨⎪⎩
, C : BOT, OVCA-I1Classifier 4 
C :  OVT, OVCA-III2
⎧⎪⎨⎪⎩
, 
C : OVT1Classifier 5 
C :  BOT, OVCA-I, OVCA-III2
⎧⎪⎨⎪⎩
. 
In the classification experiment, LIBSVM [26] is applied in classification where the kernel type 
is radial basis function (RBF), C and G are also the parameters for the kernel function. The gene 
expression datasets of 14 genes are classified by the trained SVM for 5 classification conditions, 
respectively. The classification results of these 5 conditions are shown in Table 1 to Table 5, 
respectively. In the classification results, we can discover the expression in different classification 
conditions for 14 genes by BOT. In classifier 1, there are 4 notable genes including early growth 
response 1, dihydrofolate reductase, KIAA0576 protein and MyoD family inhibitor. The 
classifications for classifier 2 to classifier 4 also have high accuracy of classification; the genes 
are notable by SVM classifications. In classifier 5, the average accuracy of classification is 
79.269%. However, fibronectin 1 has 80.488% accuracy to distinguish whether the tumor is 
cancerous or not in our experiments. 
From the classification results, we can discover the notable expression of 14 genes at BOT stage. 
Therefore, the proposed method can clearly analyze human ovarian cancer by these 14 genes at 
BOT stage before turning to ovarian cancer stage. 
Table 1.  Classification Results of Classifier 1. 
Gene Name Accuracy (%) 
early growth response 1 92.5 
dihydrofolate reductase 95.122 
KIAA0576 protein 100 
MyoD family inhibitor 95.122 
Average 95.686 
Table 2.  Classification Results of Classifier 2. 
Gene Name Accuracy (%)
chromosome 19 open reading frame 7 90.244 
cyclin-dependent kinase 5 92.683 
MYST histone acetyltransferase 2 90.244 
Average  91.057 
identify the patients who are entering ovarian cancer. The other kinds of classification 
experiments can get accuracy about 86.455%, 90.242% and 79.269% in cross-validation, 
respectively. They also can be used to identify pathological stages of ovarian cancer in different 
requirements and applications, which can keep stable accuracy rate. 
In average expressions of the discovered genes at four stages, we can discover which gene is 
remarkable and probably transform to ovarian cancer. Finally, this paper uses statistical methods 
and support vector machine for identifying various stages of ovarian cancer by gene expressions. 
The analyzed results show that the proposed method can get the average accuracy is about 
88.541%, and it can provide assistances for biologists and doctors. The proposed method can be 
extensively applied to microarray analysis and bioinformatics in different kinds of cancer for 
gene expression analysis. 
References 
1. Jemal, A., Thomas, A., Murray, T., Thun, M.: Cancer statistics 2002. CA Cancer J Clin, Vol. 
52, pp. 23--47 (2002) 
2. Website: http://www.healthandenvironment.org/ovarian_cancer. 
3. Huang, G.-S., Hung, Y.-C., Chen, A., Hong, M.-Y.: Microarray analysis of ovarian cancer. 
2005 IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, Vol. 2, pp. 
1036--1041 (2005) 
4. Schena, M., Shalon, D., Davis, R.W., Brown, P.O.: Quantitative monitoring of gene 
expression patterns with a complementary DNA microarray. Science, Vol. 270, pp. 467--470 
(1995) 
5. Alizadeh, A.A., Eisen, M.B., Davis R.E. et al.: Distinct types of diffuse large B-cell 
lymphoma identified by gene expression profiling. Nature, Vol. 403, pp. 503--511 (2000) 
6. DeRisi, J., Penland, L., Brown, P.O., Bittner, M.L., Meltzer, P.S., Ray, M., Chen, Y., Su, Y.A., 
Trent, J.M.: Use of a cDNA microarray to analyze gene expression patterns in human cancer. 
Nat Genet, Vol. 14, pp. 457--60 (1996) 
7. Schummer, M., Ng, W.V., Bumgarner, R.E., Nelson, P.S., Schummer, B., ednarski, D.W., 
Hassell, L., Baldwin, R.L., Karlan, B.Y., Hood, L.: Comparative hybridization of an array of 
21,500 ovarian cDNAs for the discovery of genes overexpressed in ovarian carcinomas. 
Gene, Vol. 238, pp. 375--385 (1999) 
8. Wang, K., Gan, L., Jeffery, E., Gayle, M., Gown, A.M., Skelly, M., Nelson, P.S., Ng, W.V., 
Schummer, M. Hood, L. Mulligan, J.: Monitoring gene expression profile changes in 
ovarian carcinomas using cDNA microarray. Gene, Vol. 229, pp. 101--108 (1999)  
9. Ismail, R.S., Baldwin, R.L., Fang, J., Browning, D., Karlan, B.Y., Gasson, J.C., Chang, D.D.: 
Differential gene expression between normal and tumor-derived ovarian epithelial cells. 
Cancer Res, Vol. 60, pp. 6744--6749 (2000) 
10. Martoglio, A.M., Tom, B.D., Starkey, M., Corps, A.N., Charnock-Jones, D.S., Smith, S.K.: 
Changes in tumorigenesis- and angiogenesis-related gene transcript abundance profiles in 
ovarian cancer detected by tailored high density cDNA arrays. Mol Med, Vol. 6, pp. 
750--765 (2000) 
11. Ono, K., Tanaka, T., Tsunoda, T., Kitahara, O., Kihara, C., Okamoto, A., Ochiai, K., Takagi, 
計畫成果自評 
本研究計劃之研究成果已達到預期目標，藉由分析基因晶片中基因表現量成功
找到對於卵巢癌具有高度相關之基因，並利用 MathLab 為分析及開發工具成
功地開發一個癌基因晶片之分析系統，其系統經實驗證實具有相當能力找出具
有癌症各期鑑別力之基因，這些基因可由許多過去生物實驗中得到驗証。除此
之外，本研究報告已撰寫為英文論文，並發表於 2007 年 12 月由 Bond 
University 主辦之國際研究會：The Third Australian Conference on Artificial Life  
2007 (ACAL2007)，並出版於 Springer's Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence 
(LNAI)著名國際期刊，故本研究計劃在學術上及實務上具有相當之貢獻。 
 
