行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
碲/鉍複合薄膜反應動力機制與熱電特性研究 
A study of reaction kinetics and thermoelectric properties of Bi/Te composite 
thin films 
計畫編號：NSC 94－2216－E－007－019 
執行期限：94 年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人     :廖建能 國立清華大學材料科學工程研究所 
計畫參與人員：佘東和 國立清華大學材料科學工程研究所 
王亞帆 國立清華大學材料科學工程研究所 
 
Abstract 
Bismuth telluride (Bi2Te3) compound 
semiconductors are best known bulk 
thermoelectric materials in low temperature 
regime, which has a thermoelectric figure of 
merit around 1 at room temperature.  Due to 
rapid advancement of thin film process 
technology, many researches were dedicated 
to investigate the properties of thermoelectric 
thin films prepared by various techniques.  In 
this study our approach is to fabricate Bi/Te 
multilayer structure using sequentially sputter 
deposition and form layered Bi-Te compounds 
through interfacial reactions between Bi and 
Te layers after thermal annealing.  The 
effects of sputter parameters, Bi/Te thickness 
period and annealing conditions on 
thermoelectric properties of the Bi-Te 
composite thin films will be investigated.  
The kinetics of Bi/Te interdiffusion and 
interfacial reaction is also a subject of interest. 
Keywords: thermoelectric, sputter deposition, 
interfacial reaction  
中文摘要 
碲化鉍 (Bi2Te3)化合物半導體為目前
所知在低溫度範圍之最佳熱電材料，其室溫
之熱電優值可接近 1左右。拜薄膜製程技術
之快速發展，近年來有不少研究集中在探討
不同薄膜製程技術製備之碲化鉍薄膜的熱
電特性。本計畫所採取的方式是以濺鍍法製
備鉍/碲多層複合薄膜，藉由後續之熱時效
處理使薄膜間產生相互擴散與界面反應，形
成碲化鉍層狀薄膜結構，研究不同濺鍍製程
條件、薄膜厚度週期與熱時效處理等因素對
鉍-碲複合薄膜熱電特性之影響。同時亦希
望針對鉍/碲薄膜界面擴散反應動力機制做
一學術性的探討。 
關鍵詞：熱電效應、濺鍍、界面反應 
1. Introduction 
Heat dissipation problem in 
microelectronic devices is getting worse with 
continuous shrinkage of circuit feature size 
and increasing component density in 
integrated-circuits (IC) technology.  In 
comparison to traditional passive cooling 
techniques, thermoelectric refrigeration has 
received substantial attention due to its high 
cooling power density, short response time 
and device scalability, which is very suitable 
for high-power and compacted micro- 
electronic devices [1].  To integrate 
thermoelectric modules with IC devices, 
miniaturization of thermoelectric elements is 
needed and hence high-quality thermoelectric 
thin film materials become crucial.  Bismuth 
telluride is the most well-known 
thermoelectric material and has been applied 
in thermoelectric cooling modules for decades.  
Numerous methods have been attempted to 
prepare the bismuth telluride thin films, 
including pulsed laser flash evaporation [2], 
ion-beam sputtering [3], metal organic 
chemical vapor deposition [4], molecular 
beam epitaxy [5], and electrodeposition [6] 
techniques.  In comparison to bulk bismuth 
telluride, the material in thin film forms, in 
general, has poor thermoelectric properties, 
which are mainly attributed to the difficulty in 
controlling the composition and defects in the 
thin films. 
Obtaining stoichiometric Bi2Te3 thin 
films is not an easy task via simple physical 
deposition methods due to very high Te vapor 
pressure and re-sputtering effect of the 
constituent elements of the target alloys.  
Chemical vapor deposition has a better chance 
to achieve stoichiometry of bismuth telluride 
thin films.  Zou et al has proposed a reactive 
co-evaporation method by adjusting the ratio 
of the Bi and the Te atomic fluxes onto the 
heated substrate [7].  The best Seebeck 
coefficients of the p-type and the n-type 
1
Bi layer and the Te layer, respectively.  There 
are 6 layers of Bi and 5 layers of Te in the 
multilayer film stack.  Both the as-deposited 
bilayer and the multilayer structures had sharp 
layer contrast and flat film morphology shown 
in figure 1(a) and 1(c).  However, the surface 
morphology of the bilayer structure degraded 
severely after the sample was annealed at 200 
ºC for 12 h as shown in figure 1(b), while that 
of the multilayer structure remained intact 
except the sharp Bi/Te layer contrast faded 
due to interdiffusion between the Bi and Te 
films shown in figure 1(d).  It is suggested 
that the morphology degradation of the Bi/Te 
bilayer is caused by Te re-evaporation during 
thermal annealing [9].  The 
room-temperature deposited Te films, in 
general, have less crystallites and more 
loosely bonded atoms than the 
high-temperature deposited ones.  Te atoms 
in solid films may return to vapor phase 
during thermal annealing because of high Te 
vapor pressure at elevated temperatures.  To 
resolve the issue the Bi/Te/Bi/…/Te/Bi 
multilayer structure is utilized to keep the Te 
layer sandwiched by the Bi layers.  It can be 
seen that the annealed multilayer structure 
remained flat film morphology and free of 
micro voids as shown in figure 1(d).  In 
addition to flat film morphology, the 
multilayer structure is also expected to be 
helpful in reducing the Bi/Te reaction time by 
increasing Bi/Te interfaces. 
 
Fig. 1: Cross-sectional SEM micrographs of Bi/Te 
bilayer and multilayer samples before and after 
thermal annealing at 200 ºC for 12 h. 
Although the SEM micrograph of the 
annealed Bi/Te multilayer suggested the 
interdiffusion between the Bi and the Te layers, 
we may need more evidences for the 
formation of bismuth telluride compound.  
Figure 2 shows the Auger depth profiling data 
of the as-deposited Bi/Te multilayer structure 
and the one after annealing at 200 ºC for 30 
min.  The alternating Bi and Te concentration 
profiles represent the period of the Bi/Te 
layered structure as shown in figure 2(a).  It 
is noted that a certain degree of Bi/Te 
intermixing may have occurred due to 
incomplete sheltering of sputter targets during 
the deposition process.  Thus, the Te layers 
contain a slight amount of Bi element, while 
the Bi layers are doped with some Te elements 
in the as-deposited Bi/Te multilayer structure.  
The periodic composition profile was quickly 
homogenized after the sample was annealed at 
200 ºC for 30 min, which clearly 
demonstrated the interdiffusion behavior of 
the Bi/Te layered structure during thermal 
annealing. 
  
Fig. 2: Auger depth profiling data of the Bi/Te 
multilayer structure: (a) as-deposited (b) annealed 
at 200 ºC for 30 min 
An x-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis was 
also performed to identify the compound 
phase formed in the annealed Bi/Te multilayer 
structure.  Figure 3 shows the XRD results of 
the as-deposited Bi/Te multilayer sample and 
the samples annealed at 200 ºC for 1.5, 2 and 
3 h, respectively.  Some Bi and Te peaks 
were observed only for the as-deposited 
sample and were embedded into the Bi2Te3 
characteristic peaks for the annealed samples.  
The intensities of the major Bi2Te3 peaks were 
found to increase with annealing time, 
indicating the growth of the Bi2Te3 phase 
during thermal annealing process.  It is 
worthy of noting that Bi2Te3 appears to be the 
major compound phase in the annealed 
samples.  The other thermodynamically 
equilibrium Bi-Te compound phases, e.g. 
Bi7Te3, Bi2Te, and BiTe, are either missing or 
negligible.  It is mainly because the 
nucleation and growth of the compound 
phases are kinetic rather thermodynamic 
processes.  If both the Bi and the Te layers 
were very thick and the sample was annealed 
long enough, all the thermodynamically 
equilibrium compound phases might exist in 
the Bi/Te multilayer structure.  However, the 
Bi/Te layered structure has limited constituent 
supply and hence the kinetics of interdiffusion 
3
the Bi2Te3 compounds in the Bi/Te 
multilayered structure.  Rogacheva et al has 
reported the similar oscillations in Seebeck 
coefficients as a function of film thickness for 
the PbS, PbSe, PbTe and SnTe thin films [10, 
11].   
 
Fig. 6: Seebeck coefficients and sheet resistance of 
the Bi/Te multilayer thin films as a function of 
annealing time at 200 °C.  
It is known that the confinement of 
electrons within a potential well leads to a 
discretization of energy levels.  The transport 
of electrons in a thin film of thickness d can 
be modeled as a quasi-two-dimensional 
system with a potential well of width d, which 
has a step-like density of state.    Assuming 
a constant chemical potential, the average 
density of electrons in the ground state is 
given by [12] 
⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡ ⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ ++−= 20 6
)12)(1(1
2
3
k
nn
k
nnn ccc  (2) 
where k=kF⋅d/π is the reduced wave vector, n0 
is the bulk electron density, and nc is the 
integer part of k.  The Fermi energy εF is 
associated to the Fermi wave vector kF by 
*22 2/ mkFF h=ε , where *m is the effective 
mass of electrons.  It is noted that the 
electron density will fluctuate with k since nc 
is the integer part of k.  In another words, the 
electron density will swing with increasing 
film thickness d with a period of Δd as shown 
below. 
FF m
h
k
d ε
π
*8
==Δ    (3) 
The thickness-dependent electron density 
gives rise to the oscillatory transport 
properties of the thin film.  Both electrical 
conductivity and thermoelectric power are 
strongly dependent on the electron density.  
Some theoretical estimates indicate that the 
oscillation in thermoelectric power could be 
even more profound than that in electrical 
conductivity, especially in the presence of 
impurity scattering [12].  The electronic 
structure of the Bi/Te multilayer thin film 
investigated can be considered as a periodic 
quantum well resulting from the discrepancy 
in the bandgap of each constituent layer.  The 
width of the quantum well is expected to 
change with the elapse of annealing time 
because the Bi2Te3 layer will grow by 
consuming the Bi and Te layer.  The 
thicknesses of the Bi and the Te layer in the 
multilayer structure were 20 nm and 70 nm, 
respectively.  The thickness of the Bi2Te3 
layer in the annealed sample is expected  to 
be tens of nm, which is much less than the 
electron mean free path of bulk bismuth 
telluride (~ 550 nm) [13].  Therefore, it 
should not be surprised to observe the size 
confinement effect on the transport properties 
of bismuth telluride layered structure.  
Classical size effect treated film surface as 
electron scattering site and derived the ~1/d 
thickness dependence on transport properties 
of thin films based on the Boltzmann equation 
[13, 14].  If the film thickness is reduced 
further, one should be able to observe the 
oscillatory transport properties of thin films.  
Let’s make a rough estimate of Δd for 
the annealed Bi/Te multilayer structure.  The 
density-of-state effective mass for electrons 
( 3/1**** )( zyx mmmm = ) is assumed to be 0.07m0 
for Bi2Te3 [15].  With the averaged electron 
concentration of 2×1019 cm-3, the Fermi 
energy εF is calculated to be 0.11 eV [16].  
Thus, the Δd value for the annealed Bi/Te 
multilayer structure is calculated to be ~7 nm 
according to Eq. (3).  If the thickness 
increment of the Bi2Te3 layer induced by thin 
film reaction is much larger than the value, it 
would be difficult to detect the oscillation 
behavior in thermoelectric power and 
electrical conductivity of thin films.  Due to 
limited Bi and Te interdiffusion kinetic data, 
we are unable to calculate the growth rate of 
bismuth telluride for the annealed Bi/Te 
multilayer structure.  Nevertheless, we can 
estimate the interdiffusivity from the 
oscillation period of annealing time (~1.5 h) 
and Δd using the following relation: 
 periodtDd int=Δ     (4) 
Thus, the interdiffusivity Dint is found in the 
order of 10-16 cm2/s that is much smaller than 
typical diffusion values for crystalline metals 
and alloys, e.g. DNi-Bi = 2×10-10 cm2/s at 200 
ºC [17].  However, it has also been reported 
that the interdiffusion in nanometer-scale 
multilayer structures are much slower than the 
5
