  
protein domains. Many other works also employ PPI and 
domain-domain interaction (DDI) to characterize disease 
networks [6 -11].  
In this research we begin by collecting cancerous 
protein interaction data. That is, only interactions involved 
with cancer proteins are considered. These types of 
interactions are know as cancerous PPI. Non-cancerous 
protein interaction means either one or both of the proteins 
is not yet identified in relation to cancer. Given the 
cancerous PPI, a set of domain-domain interaction (DDI) 
rules for cancer proteins are derived. We then apply this set 
of DDI to non-cancerous PPI data, thus making novel 
cancer protein predictions. 
 
B. Cancer and Alternative Splicing 
The protein-coding regions of most eukaryotic genes 
contain exons and introns, where introns are spliced, 
producing mRNA and translated into proteins. When 
alternative splicing occurs in exons, part of the mRNA is 
removed, which results in altering protein domain 
composition, a three-dimensional structure and PPI. It is 
suggested that PPI, which is mediated by DDI, may be 
affected by domain removal due to alternative splicing. 
Differential expression of the p53 isoforms has been 
reported in renal cell carcinoma [12] and head and neck 
tumors [13]. Only P53, P53 and P53 are expressed in 
normal breast tissue, with the other P53 isoforms not being 
expressed. In thirty randomly selected breast tumors, 60% 
of the cases had lost the expression of P53 and P53, 
whereas 40% had gained the expression of 133P53 [14]. 
There is also a study reporting that P53 and 40P53 are 
evident in the majority of melanoma cell lines, 40P53 is 
shown to inhibit, whereas P53 is shown to enhance, but 
they are undetectable in fibroblasts and melanocytes [15]. In 
normal human fibroblasts, 133P53 inhibits senescence, 
whereas P53 promotes senescence [16]. The increased 
133P53 and decreased P53 isoform expression in colon 
carcinomas may indicate that it is an escape from the 
senescence barrier during the progression from adenoma to 
carcinoma. 133P53 also can be detected in RCC (Renal 
Cell Carcinoma), but is not detected in normal tissue [17]. 
A recent study [18] indicated that P53 regulates the 
tumor promotion transfer factor, Slug, through the 
downstream molecules MDM2, then changing the Slug 
protein stability by P53-MDM2-Slug complex, thereby 
inhibiting cancer invasion and metastasis. After P53 has 
mutated it will not bind with MDM2 and thus will not 
change the Slug protein stability, resulting in invasion or 
metastasis of cancer cells. If domain regions of a protein are 
disrupted the consequence is frequently equivalent to 
removal of the entire domain [19]. So, it is suggested that 
PPI, which is mediated by DDI, may be affected by domain 
removal due to alternative splicing. Therefore, a possible 
explanation for the disruption of the P53-MDM2-Slug 
complex event is due to defects in P53_TAD domain 
interactions with the SWIB domain of MDM2.  
The importance of alternative splicing in cancer 
formation can also be found in another work [20], where the 
authors identified seven tumor-specific splice variants 
(ACTN1, CALD1, COL6A3, LRRFIP2, PIK4CB, TPM1, 
and VCL) in colon, bladder and prostate cancer. The result 
suggested that these proteins may be involved in the 
pathogenesis of cancers and hence represent novel 
therapeutic targets. 
Liver cancer is one of the top fatal diseases in man; 
therefore, it was selected for this work. Here we study the 
effects of liver cancer isoforms’ PPI, caused by domain 
removal due to alternate splicing. It is expected that such 
analysis can lead to a better understanding of liver cancer 
formation at a domain interaction level. 
To the best of our knowledge this work is the first on 
predicting cancer proteins from cancer-specific DDI, and 
investigating differential PPI for cancer protein  isoforms’ 
from the DDI perspective. 
II. METHODS 
A. Cancer Proteins from PPI to DDI 
Cancer protein data are obtained from the Tumor 
Associated Gene (TAG) database, Memorial Sloan-
Kettering Cancer Center [20], and National Yang Ming 
University, whereas PPI and domain information are 
retrieved from BioGrid [21] and Pfam [22] respectively. A 
total of 536/139 oncogenes (OCG)/oncoprotein (OCP) and 
900/422 tumor suppressor gene (TSG)/tumor suppressor 
protein (TSP) are collected. The numbers of OCP and TSP 
are less than the numbers of their corresponding genes, 
because their Uniprot IDs are not available. 
A one to one DDI model is employed [23] to derive 
putative protein DDI. Assuming proteins Pi and Pj contain 
M and N domains respectively, then given an interacting 
protein pair (Pi, Pj), one considers that there are MN 
possible domain pairs. The set of domain pairs of two 
proteins Pi and Pj, Sij, is defined by: 
Sij = {s(Pi) × s(Pj)}                           (1) 
where s(Pi) denotes a set of M protein domains in protein Pi, 
i.e. {α1, ….. αM}, and × denotes the Cartesian product of 
two sets s(Pi) and s(Pj). 
To measure the likelihood of a DDI combination, a 
DDI pair interaction matrix I is introduced. The element Iαβ 
denotes the weighted combination probability of a domain 
pair (α, β) for a given protein pair (Pi, Pj), and it is given by:  

×
=
),( |)(||)(|
1
ji PP ji PsPs
Iαβ
                    (2) 
where |s| denotes the cardinality of set s, the summation is 
over all possible pairs of (Pi , Pj) such that α and β  is an 
element of s(Pi)  and s(Pj) respectively.  Then, the element of 
the normalized DDI score Fαβ is defined by:  
34
  
After removing the identical DDI partners of common 
domains and differential domains (Figure 1), we obtained 
differential DDI partners of an isoform. Given the 
differential DDI information we can study differential PPI 
partners.  First, the domain interaction partners of an 
isoform are collected. Secondly, the domain interaction 
partners’ information is searched against the SWISSPROT 
database. 
TABLE I.  The DDI for protein ErbB3. There are three identical DDI 
partners for differential domains and common domains, that is, Furin_like, 
Recep_L_domain and V_set. 
ErbB3 
DDI for  common domains DDI for differential domains 
Recep_L_domain  -  EGF Furin_like  -  Furin_like 
Recep_L_domain  -  Furin_like Furin_like  -  Recep_L_domain 
Recep_L_domain  -  
Recep_L_domain Furin_like  -  V_set 
Recep_L_domain  -  V_set 
Pkinase_Tyr  -  BPS 
Pkinase_Tyr  -  FERM_M 
Pkinase_Tyr  -  Pkinase_Tyr 
Pkinase_Tyr  -  SH2 
Pkinase_Tyr  -  SH3_1 
Pkinase_Tyr  -  Y_phosphatase 
 
III. RESULTS 
A. Cancer Proteins from PPI to DDI 
In the following discussion, symbols O, T and X are 
used to denote OCP,TSP and non-cancer proteins 
respectively. Five-fold cross-validation tests are conducted 
for the six possible types of PPI, i.e. O-O, T-T, O-T, O-X, 
T-X and X-X. For instance, interactions involve with OCP 
and OCP denotes as ‘O-O’ type of cancerous PPI. It is 
understood that symbol ‘O-T’ stands for ‘T-O’ cancerous 
PPI too. Furthermore, interaction types, such as O-X, T-X 
and X-X are classified as non-cancerous PPI. There are a 
total of 338, 1000, 647, 2286, 4331 and 11203 PPI for the 
O-O, T-T, O-T, O-X, T-X and X-X types of interactions 
respectively.  
A five-fold cross-validation test is conducted to 
benchmark the prediction sensitivity. For example, 
assuming one uses the O-O type specific DDI rules, and 
applies that to the O-O type PPI data. In this case, 80% of 
O-O PPI data is used as the training set; the derived O-O 
specific DDI scores are applied to the rest 20% of the O-O 
type PPI data. These procedures are repeated four times. 
The sensitivity values are determined. A high sensitivity 
value implies better prediction. The tested results are 
reported in Table II. It is found that the average sensitivity 
and F1 measure for the O-O type of interaction are 61.8% 
and 73.9% respectively.  
 If the set of O-O type DDI score values are applied to 
the other five classes of PPI, the specificity values are non-
zero (it is preferable to have non-diagonal scores as low as 
possible). For instance, among the O-X type of PPI, certain 
records are predicted to have O-O type of PPI, that is, the 
false-positive rate (FPR). In other words, the set of DDI rule 
is not specific enough; therefore, one has false positive 
predictions. The completed results for the sensitivity, FPR, 
specificity and F1 measures are given in Table II.  
TABLE II  The results of the five-fold cross-validation tests for the six 
possible types of PPI.  
NPPI  O-O T-T O-T 
338 O-O 61.8% 24.6% 34.3% 
1000 T-T 6.0% 45.3% 19.8% 
647 O-T 16.5% 26.7% 51.5% 
2286 O-X 21.1% 16.5% 22.6% 
4331 T-X 6.1% 21.4% 15.5% 
11203 X-X 5.6% 9.2% 8.4% 
 SP value 92.1% 86.2% 87.3% 
 F1 value 73.9% 59.4% 64.8% 
The first column, NPPI, denotes the total number of PPI in each category. 
Off-diagonal numbers are derived from 100% of NPPI.  
 
As we indicated in above, the off-diagonal elements 
denote the FPR. For instance, if the O-O DDI rules are 
applied to the T-T type of PPI data, one can have TN or FP 
predictions only, there is no TP event. The average FPR is 
6.0%. Given the O-O type DDI rules, the FPR calculation is 
repeated for the O-T, O-X, T-X and X-X cases. Then, the 
total number of TN as well as FP events is added. The 
specificity values (SP) are reported in the second last row in 
Table II. This indicates the feasibility of applying the set of 
O-O type DDI in cancerous PPI study. 
The off-diagonal elements in Table II are non-zero. 
There are two possible explanations for this; (i) the set of 
DDI rule is not completely specific, therefore, one has FP 
predictions, and (ii) predictions are TP events, simply 
because those PPI are needed to extend their interpretation. If 
one can exclude the first explanation option, then the present 
calculation provides a potential way to assign X as O or T. 
A web based service has set up to provide the following 
functionality, (i) predict O-O, T-T or O-T types of PPI given 
the proteins’ domain PFamA ID, (ii) a ranking list of O-O, 
T-T or O-T types of DDI according to Rαβ, (iii) a query 
interface which allows users to retrieve OCP and TSP 
specific domains, and (iv) provide KEGG human cancer 
pathways or OMIM information on OCP or TSP interaction 
proteins. This web site can be accessed at 
http://ppi.bioinfo.asia.edu.tw/TsgOcgppi/. 
Since the sensitivity test results for the T-T and O-T 
type of interaction are somewhat lower, i.e. 45.3 % and 
51.5%, the same calculation is repeated using a more 
modest consideration, that is, two kinds of protein 
interactions are considered. Using letter ‘C’ to denote cancer 
proteins, here, three types of PPI are involved, (i) cancer 
36
  
proteins given that one of the PPI partner is a cancer protein. 
For the second application, it is found that certain liver 
cancer-related isoforms mediated differential PPI, such as 
ErbB3, P53, Bax and Bcl2. The available data suggest that 
splicing defects may have a role in hepato-carcinogenesis. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
The work of Ka-Lok Ng is supported by the National 
Science Council of Taiwan, under the grants of NSC 99-
2221-E-468-009, NSC 99-2632-E-468-001-MY3 and NSC 
98-3112-B-010-018. The work of Jeffrey Jing-Pha Tsai is 
supported by the National Science Council of Taiwan, under 
the grant of NSC 99-2632-E-468-001-MY3. Our gratitude 
goes to Dr. Timothy Williams, Asia University, for his help 
in proof reading the manuscript. 
REFERENCES 
[1] Kwang-Il. Goh et al. (2007). The human disease network. Proc Natl 
Acad Sci. 104, 8685 
[2] Trey Ideker and Sharan Roded (2008). Protein networks in disease. 
Geno Res. 18, 644 
[3] Gozde Kar, Attila Gursoy, Ozlem Keskin (2009). Human Cancer 
Protein-Protein Interaction Network: A Structural Perspective. PLoS 
Comput Biol, 5, e1000601 
[4] HH Chan (2006). Identification of novel tumor-associated gene 
(TAG) by  bioinformatics analysis. MSc. Thesis, National Cheng 
Kung University, Taiwan  
[5] Pall F. Jonsson and Paul A. Bates (2006). Global topological features 
of cancer proteins in the human interactome. Bioinfo. 22, 2291 
[6] DP Ryan and JM Matthews (2005). Protein-protein interactions in 
human disease. Curr Opin Struct Biol, 15, 441. 
[7] Xu Jianzhen and Yongjin Li. (2006). Discovering disease-genes by 
topological features in human protein–protein interaction network. 
Bioinfo. 22, 2800. 
[8] A Platzer, P Perco, A Lukas, B Mayer. (2007). Characterization of 
protein-interaction networks in tumors. BMC Bioinfo. 8, 224 
[9] M Oti, B Snel. MA Huynen and Brunner HG (2007). Predicting 
disease genes using protein-protein interactions. J Med Genet. 43, 
691 
[10] J Goni, FJ Esteban, NV de Mendizábal  et al. (2008). A 
computational analysis of protein-protein interaction. BMC Sys Biol, 
2, 52. 
[11] Benjamin Schuster-Bockler and Alex Bateman (2008). Protein 
interactions in human genetic diseases. Geno Biol, 9, R9.1. 
[12] W Song, SW Huo, JJ Lu, et al. (2009). Expression of p53 isoforms in 
renal cell carcinoma. Chin Med J Engl 122, 921 
[13] L Boldrup, JC Bourdon, PJ Coates, et al. (2007). Expression of p53 
isoforms in squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Eur J 
Cancer, 43, 617. 
[14] M Marabese, S Marchini, E Marrazzo, et al. (2008). Expression levels 
of p53 and p73 isoforms in stage I and stage III ovarian cancer. Eur J 
Cancer 44, 131. 
[15] JC Bourdon, K Fernandes, F Murray-Zmijewski et al. (2005). P53 
isoforms can regulate p53 transcriptional activity. Genes Dev, 19, 
2122. 
[16] KA Avery-Kiejda, XD Zhang, LJ Adams, et al. (2008). Small 
molecular weight variants of p53 are expressed in human melanoma 
cells and are induced by the DNA-damaging agent cisplatin. Clin 
Cancer Res, 14, 1659. 
[17] K Fujita, AM Mondal, I Horikawa, GH Nguyen, et al. (2009). P53 
isoforms, D133p53 and p53b, are endogenous regulators of 
replicative cellular senescence. Nat Cell Biol 11, 1135. 
[18] W Song, SW Huo, JJ Lu, et al. (2009). Expression of p53 isoforms in 
renal cell carcinoma. Chin Med J Engl 122, 921–926. 
[19] Shu-Ping Wang, Wen-Lung Wang, Yih-Leong Chang, et al. (2009) 
P53 controls cancer cell invasion by inducing the MDM2-mediated 
degradation of Slug. Nat. Cell Biol. 11, 694. 
[20] Kriventseva V Evgenia, Koch Ina, Apweiler Rolf, et al. (2003). 
Increase of functional diversity by alternative splicing. TRENDS in 
Genetics. March, 19(3) ,124. 
[21] Kasper Thorsen, Karina D. Sorensen , Anne Sofie Brems-Eskildsen, 
et al. (2008). Alternative splicing in Colon, Bladder and Prostate 
Cancer Identified by Exon Array Analysis. Molecular & Cellular 
Proteomics. 7, 1214. 
[22] http://cbio.mskcc.org/CancerGenes/Select.action 
[23] BJ Breitkreutz, et al. (2008) The BioGRID interaction database, 2008 
update. Nucleic Acids Res., 36, D637 
[24] Robert D. Finn, Jaina Mistry, John Tate et al. (2010). The Pfam 
protein families database. Nucl Acids Res, 38, D211. 
[25] Ka-Lok Ng, Jin-Shuei Ciou and Chien-Hung Huang (2010). 
Prediction of Protein Functions based on Function-function 
Correlation Relations. Comput in Biol and Med, 40, 300 
[26] Tom MW Nye, C Berzuini, WR Gilks , MM Babu, and SA 
Teichmann (2005). Statistical analysis of domains in interacting 
protein pairs. Bioinfo. 21, 993 
[27] Shuo Liu and B Russ Altman (2003). Large scale study of protein 
domain distribution in the context of alternative splicing. Nucl Acids 
Res, 31(16). 4828 
[28] AD Neverov, Irena I Artamonova, RN Nurtdinov, et al. (2005). 
Alternative splicing and protein function. BMC Bioinfo, 6,266. 
[29] Chun-Nan Hsu, Jin-Mei Lai, Chia-Hung Liu et al. (2007). Detection 
of the inferred interaction network in hepatocellular carcinoma from 
EHCO (Encyclopedia of Hepatocellular Carcinoma genes Online). 
BMC Bioinfo, 8,66. 
[30] Aron Marchler-Bauer, John B.Anderson, Farideh Chitsaz, et al. 
(2009). CDD:specific functional annotation with the Conserved 
Domain Database. Nucl Acids Res, Vol.37, Database issue D205. 
[31] Amelie Stein, Arnaud Ceol and Patrick Aloy, (2010). 3did: 
identification and classification of domain-based interactions of know 
three-dimensional structure. Nucl Acids Res, 39, D718. 
[32] Alissa Resch, Yi Xing, Barmak Modrek, Michael Gorlick, Robert 
Riley and Christopher Lee (2004). Assessing the Impact of 
Alternative Splicing on Domain Interactions in the Human Proteome. 
J of Prot Res, 3, 76. 
[33] Fortunato Ciardiello, Nancy Kim, Toshiaki Saeki, et al. (1991). 
Differential expression of epidermal growth factor-related proteins in 
human colorectal tumors. Med Sci, September, Vol. 88, pp. 7792. 
[34] Yinyuan Wu, Yinyin Wang, Yang Sun, et al. (2010). RACK1 
promotes Bax oligomerization and dissociates the interaction of Bax 
and Bcl-XL. Cell Signal, Oct; Vol. 22, Issue 10, 1495. 
[35] Ji Miao, G George Chen, Jing-Ping Yun, et al. (2007). Identification 
and characterization of BH3 domain protein Bim and its isoforms in 
human hepatocellular carcinomas. Apoptosis, 12,1691. 
[36] Chia-Hungu Liu, Kuan-Ting Lin, Chi-Ying F Huang, (2009). 
Genome-Wide Detection of Putative Oncofetal Expression in Human 
Heptocellular Carcinoma by Splicing Pattern Comparison. iConcept 
Transaction on Computational Intelligence in Bioinformatics, 1,1. 
[37] Berasain Carmen, Goni Saioa, Castillo Josefa, et al. (2010). 
Impairment of pre-mRNA splicing in liver disease: Mechanisms and 
consequences. World J Gastroenterol. 16(25), 3091. 
 
38
 表 Y04 
2
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、 參加會議經過 
 
The ISMB/ECCB 2011 Conference was held at the Austria Convention Center at Vienna, 
Austria from Jul. 17-19, 2011. It is a truly international, multidisciplinary, annual conference that 
offers the greatest possible scientific exchange. 
 
The ISMB/ECCB conference chairs invited and arranged Keynote Speeches as well as Prize 
winner speeches. The speakers are: Professors Bonnie Berger, Olga Troyanskaya, Janet Thornton, 
Alfonso Valencia, Luis Serrano, and Michael Ashburner. 
 
The scientific program of ISMB/ECCB included keynote talks, and many oral presentations. I 
had a poster presentation on July 18. The title of my presentation is “Applications of 
Domain-Domain Interactions – “Deriving Cancer Specific Domain-Domain Interactions, 
Differential Protein-Protein Interactions due to Alternative Splicing in Liver Cancer”. This work is 
included and published in the Conference Program USB disk, under Category L Posters - 
Interactions, poster ID is L05. 
A variety of very high quality papers were presented at this conference and the topics include 
gene regulation network, miRNA-gene module, meta-genomics sequence assembling, and 
biological network topology. 
 
二、 與會心得 
 
There are many well presented talks in this conference. Attended talks with their titles and 
brief contents are listed in below. 
 
Keynote speeches and Prize winner speeches 
There were six keynote speakers each of them gave a 45 minutes speech. After the 
presentation is a five minutes opening discussion.  
 
Keynote Presentation: 
Computational biology in the 21st century: making sense out of massive data  
Professor Bonnie Berger  
 
z massive data growing exponentially 
z computer speed (power) is not catching up with the size of the data 
z consider three paradigm of research –  
(1) large scale genomics (LSG),  
(2) medical genomics,  
(3) network biology 
 
z LSG – develop compressive genomics, caBLAST 
z good thing is the run time is proportional to non-redundant genome 
z it save and cut down the run time, sub-linear algorithm 
z medical genomics, GEO has more than 100,000 microarray data, her group study 3000 
samples using PCA to do data reduction 
z 2D plot – red, blue and green colors in which the blood, brain, epithelial tissues form its 
own cluster respectively 
z indexing GEO by UMLS – unified medical language system 
z Question: how accurate is the sample map on the transcriptome (landscape) ? The results 
show good accuracy. 
z application: study cancer metastases, such as lung cancer found in brain. 
 表 Y04 
4
z EC number system: C.SC.SSC.SN 
z SC stands for subclass indicate which bond is broken, but this classification system has 
no information about chemical mechanism 
z in the EC system, level 1,2,3,4 has 6,63,354,4154 classes respectively, class 1 is 
oxidoreductase 
z Reactome consists of 4145 reactions 
z need to handle enzyme reactions 
z how to do chem.-informatics to handle enzyme reaction 
z develop tools (1) measure the similarity of reactions, (2) compare reactions 
z next step is to extract reaction mechanism from reactant to product 
z built BE-matrix (reactant), Reaction-matrix, and BE-matrix (product) 
z BE-matrix Æ row of matrix records atom, column records number of bonds, diagonal of 
the matrix represents valence electrons 
z Reaction-matrix Æ diagonal of the matrix represent change in free valence 
z Not only has bond information, but also bond structure 
z Choose ligase as a case study, O-X + H-X Æ X-Y + HO 
z Use atom-atom position to compare two reactions, C-N bond in EC 6.3 is more complex 
because it has three classes 
z to understand enzyme families and evolution – make use of microevolution by artificial 
selection 
z enzyme reaction is due to DDI, 89% within class change Î change of specificity, 11% 
between class 
z it is found that evolution change at the EC 4th level Æ react with substrate 
z evolution by local domain evolution and domain fusion 
 
 
ISCB Fellow Keynote: Challenges for Bioinformatics in Personalized Cancer Medicine 
Professor Alfonso Valencia 
 
z cancer personalize treatment 
z what protein can be found in a cell? 
z How is the protein complex formed? 
z Protein family evolution, gene duplication and epigenetics 
z Personalize medicine 
z alternative splicing (AS) accounts for at least 25% of the human genes, multi-exon genes 
are AS 
z most of the AS isoform protein is not equal the main isoform, mutually exclusive exon 
skipping 
z how protein complex’s subunits find their right partner? Rigid body docking 
z see Wass, Pazos and Puentes, MSB (2011) 
z encounter complex by retaining them close to te final configuration 
z predict functional site in a protein family, form a genomics study to identify the genetic 
different Æ drug test Æ patient treatment 
z clinical people need a stable, easy to understand protocol 
 
 
Keynote Presentation: Systems Biology analysis of a small bacterium: lessons in humility
Professor Luis Serrano 
 
z Mycoplasma pneumonia (Mp), a human pathogenic bacterium causing atypical pneumonia as 
model system for the study 
 
 表 Y04 
6
July 17 
 
HL01: Analysis and design of RNA sequencing experiments for identifying isoform 
regulation, Yarden Katz 
 
z example – hnRNPA1, opposite effect from the same gene different isoform 
z interested in alternative splicing (AS) abundance, and differential expression of AS 
z Question: how to quantify AS isoform expression? Derived AS form mRNA-seq data 
z using a mixture model 
z for example one has three exons and two exons isoform Æ [ e1, e2, e3] and [e1, e3] 
z built the mixture model for the two isoform cases is more difficult for more than two cases, 
use MCMC 
z certain AS form dominant in one tissue 
z paired end reads help identify isoform 
z also measure insert length distance between exon 
z detect differential isofrom expression, consider the Bayes factor, BF 
z H0: Dx =0, H1: Dx not equal to zero. 
z 
)0()0|(
)1()1|(
HpHDp
HpHDpBF =  
z it is shown that differential expression agrees with RT-PCR experimental results with BF > 
0.2 
z hnRNPA1 also regulate alternate cleavage and poly-A site extension 
 
 
HL02: The Central Human Proteome, Jacques Colinge 
 
z Reference: Burkard, BMC system biology (2011) 
z data input, 7 cell lines, find relative abundance of protein complexes by MS/MS 
z it is found that central proteome is not necessary equal abundant proteins 
z membrane protein is under represented 
z only 45% overlap with Su PNAS 2002 data 
z about 40% overlap with Human protein Atlas (Ponten et al MSB 2009) 
z the central proteome is made of well conserved proteins 
z central proteins are exon-rich coding genes, the median is more than 4 (p-value is 0.00097) 
z central protein increased ability in PPI, these two results indicate evolution adapted idea 
z central proteome is centrally positioned 
z relative betweenness eigen-value 
z enrichment in drug target 
z central protein PPI tend to have short distance interaction as information exchange less than 
10% of them are poor annotated 
z now collaborate with Uniprot 
z human bind with viral protein 
z cancer proteins are 5/2 times more central/connected 
z the above information are downloadable from web site 
z also consider mapping between housekeeping genes 
z a lot of kinase, hw well is expression level correlated with protein abundance? 
z 1/3, 1/3 and 1/3 are good correlate, just fine, and no correlated well (most are come from 
protein complexes) 
 
 
 
 
 表 Y04 
8
z monochromatic pattern Æ functional modules 
z monochromatic score 
z 1
|sgn|
sgn
1 ≤≤− ∑
∑  
z histone exchange is positive 
z within protein complexes thee are + and – interaction (X27 poster) 
z remove genes in complex – main contributor – monochromatic pattern explain 
z GOsim defines 11 monochromatic processes (define protein complexes in terms of GO, not 
from PPI) 
z FunCat defines 18 monochromatic processes 
z protein subunits are more likely genetic interact 
z ~60% of protein complexes contain one essential gene 
z ~10% of process are monochromatic in SGA 
 
 protein complex (PC) not PC 
essential gene 0.61  
non-essential gene 0.20  
 
 
OPT 17 
Protein interaction partners revealed by their dynamical properties 
Jau-Ji Lin, National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan 
 
z structure is ~ dynamics properties 
z define weighted protein contact number profile (WCN) 
z ∑+
=
=
MN
j ij
i r
w
1
1  
z compute profile different value (pd) 
z this pd tells us the difference between PC 
z protein interact with many partners tend to have flexible interface 
 
OPT 18 
Detection of nonlinear effects in gene expression pathways 
Andreas Mayr, Johannes Kepler University Linz, Austria 
 
z nonlinear effects(NLE) can be due to FBL. Signal cascade, saturation 
z detected by quadratic factor analysis (poster X22) 
z factor analysis is described by (1) factor locating, factor * hidden vector 
z (2) add Gaussian noise 
z apply to study p53 pathway, spindle organization 
z noise exist is a complexity in model 
 
 
LBR07: Modulators of microRNA Activity Regulate Glioblastoma Pathogenesis, Xuerui 
Yang 
 
z perform genome wide (GW) screening for modulator, built an gene expression profile matrix 
z estimate conditional information by mutual entropy 
z predict spronge regulator 
z PTEN is a key suppressor which is correlated with its mPR regulator 
z PTEN regulate tumor cell growth rate 
 表 Y04 
10
HL11: A survey of genomic traces reveals a common sequencing error, RNA editing, and 
DNA editing, Erez Levanon 
 
z Most biomedical, genomic research begins with the painstaking assembly of a ‘‘reference 
genome’’ for the organism of interest. Implicit in this process is an assumption that genomic 
information is constant throughout an organism. There are enzymes, however, that can 
change, or ‘‘edit,’’ genomic information so that variations from the reference can exist within 
a single organism.  
z There are common sequencing errors, such as protein changes from A to I, RNA editing 
z It is found candidates for DNA and RNA editing as well as a sequencing error that has 
become incorporated into commonly used genomic resources. 
z For example, APOBEC change DNA to RNA 
z Also look for editing event in genome through MSA 
z Errors enter in dbSNP, HapMap and reference genomes 
z The author show the importance of sequence quality score in their work 
z Both RNA and DNA editing events found in genome 
 
HL14: The imprint of codons on protein structure, Charlotte M. Deane 
 
z the idea that a protein’s structure is dependent only on its amino acid sequence is questionable
z Analyzing the input (mRNA) and output (protein) of translation, it is found that local protein 
structure information is encoded in the mRNA nucleotide sequence 
z Study the codon structural preferences vs. amino acid structural preferences, codon 
translation speed 
z Translationally slow codon seems to relate to folding fast proteins 
z Using a detailed mapping between over 4000 solved protein structures and their mRNA, the 
authors have carried out a comprehensive analysis of codon usage across many organisms. It 
is found no evidence that domain boundaries are enriched with slow codons. 
z They built a codon sequence structural database 
z Different species has different codon usage 
z Interesting codons are: (1) code propensity vs. amino acid propensity, (ii) TCG/CGA codon 
found at the begin/end of the coil 
z A high tRNA concentration can get translate fast, it is an experimental analogy of speed 
 
 
LBR12: Inferring Gene Regulatory Networks from Expression Data using Tree-based 
Methods, Van Anh Huynh-Thu 
 
 
z the elucidation of the topology of genetic regulatory networks (GRNs) using high throughput 
genomic data, in particular microarray gene expression data.  
z In this work, the speaker presents GENIE3, an original algorithm for the inference of GRNs 
z GENIE3 decomposes the prediction of a regulatory network between p genes into p different 
regression problems 
z In each of the regression problems, the expression pattern of one of the genes (target gene) is 
predicted from the expression patterns of all the other genes (input genes), using tree-based 
ensemble methods 
z The whole network is then reconstructed by aggregating putative links over all genes. Our 
method was evaluated in the context of the Dialogue for Reverse Engineering Assessments 
and Methods (DREAM) challenge 
z The GENIE3 method was best performer on the DREAM4 In Silico Multifactorial challenge 
in 2009 and on the DREAM5 Network Inference challenge in 2010. 
 表 Y04 
12
characterization (how it works), chassis (data for SynBIS, such yeast, E. coli etc data) 
z promoter design (pLacUV5), replicate the characterization, set up CSynBIS 
z Example 1: biosensor design – bio-film, infection take up the bio-film into bladder, detection 
of pathogenic bio-films, biosensor characterization, detector , amplifier, indication 
z Example 2: logic gates hrnp 
z synthetic biology is not the same as systems biology 
 
HL28: miRGator v2.0 and the construction of miRNA-disease network, Wankyu Kim 
 
z now we have more than 1000 human miRNA known, each miRNA can possibly targeted 10s 
to 1000s genes 
z miRNA sequences are highly conserved across species, so these sequences are very old 
z miRNAs are associated with drug response, one can compare miRNAs study - different drug 
sensitive or non-sensitive in cell lines 
z perform a systematic prediction of disease-related miRNAs 
z based on Gene Set analysis (GSA) to study from miRNA to Target genes (TGs) to diseases 
z disease-related genes ` 50 disease genes, ~ 12000 profile microarray 
z also obtained data from OMIM, GAD databases 
z validate miRNA using TarBase, miRecords, and miRTarBase 
z experimentally validate findings by KO knockout Æ up DEGs, OE over-expressed Æ down 
DEGs 
z also study paired miRNA-mRNA expression profiles (22 sets, more than 22000 profiles), 
collect correlation coefficient < 0 data 
z miRNA network construction, more than two billions pairwise alignments 
z predict ~6000 validated disease-miRNA pairs 
z from PhenomiR and miR2disease databases 
z the authors integrated these data and get the top 100 miRNA-mRNA pairs 
z it is found that these 100 genes: (50, 23, 27) are (validated, literature, novel) genes,  
z based on the LLS score values from 3 to 6 
z the group also develop the tool called miRgator 2.0, which the following functionality (1) 
search by miRNA, TG, tissue types, disease types, and perturbations, perform GSA or 
miRSA association analysis  
z contact wkim@ewha.ac.kr for further information 
 
 
SS05 - Part C: Bioinformatics for Synthetic Biology: Refactoring complex gene clusters 
in bacteria, Christopher Voigt 
 
z Voigt is not able to show up, the talk is given by one of his postdoc. Fellow 
z the group develops genetic programs 
z one of the group project is engineering a bacteria to sense light 
z also develop genetic program to engineer – sensors, circuits, actuators 
z need genetic compiler – logic minimization, genetic constraints, take out the connected parts 
z build robust genetic program based on genetic compiler, need to transfer function first then 
study the input vs. output response 
z for instance, one study the ‘NOT’ gate transfer function, 4 input ‘AND’ gate built – 11 
orthogonal regulator in one cell, now has about 25 orthogonal TFs 
 
 
 
 
 
 表 Y04 
14
PT48: A novel computational framework for simultaneous integration of multiple 
functional genomic data to identify microRNA-gene regulatory modules, Shihua Zhang 
 
z the , authors develop a tool called MicroCosm to determine gene co-modules which are 
miRNA-gene interaction 
z these can be validated by (1) miRNA cluster enrichment test, and (2) functional annotation of 
the module, and (3) validate pathways based on IPA (reveal co-regulated expression signals) 
z use TCGA for miRNA vs. gene expression 
z it is found that within a miRNA co-module multiple miRNA act together enriched with 
cancer miRNA (possibly they act as TSG) 
z 70% of the co-modules have cancer-related miRNA  
 
 
三、 考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
    Null 
 
四、 建議 
I had  discussions with the following participants during the conference, 
z Professor Steven Eschrich, Moffitt Cancer Center, USA, 
z Mr. Andreas Mayr, Johannes Kepler University, Austria, 
z Dr. Magali Michaut Magali, University of Toronto, and 
z Mr. Wei-Jen Chung, University of Columbia, wc2303@columbia.edu  
 
In summary, I had several nice discussions with some of the speakers in the conference. The 
level and quality of the talks are excellent.  
 
五、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
Conference documents: 
(1) conference materials stored on a USB disk for ISMB 2011 
(2) name cards for Professor Steven Eschrich, Moffitt Cancer Center, USA, and Mr. Andreas 
Mayr, Johannes Kepler University, Austria. 
(3) INTERFACE, issue 5, March 2010. 
 
六、 其他 
    null 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：吳家樂 計畫編號：99-2221-E-468-009- 
計畫名稱：從蛋白質相互作用及蛋白質後修飾作用角度探討致病之分子機制 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 2 2 100% 兩位碩士之論文 
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100% 
江文欽，王傑瑋，
林以文，曾可蓉 
 
博士生 1 1 100% 陳順宗 
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
國外 論文著作 
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
EI 收錄論文； 
發表於 IEEE BIBE 
2011 研 討 會 , 
Oct. 24-26, 
Taiwan 
題 目 ：
Investigating 
Cancer-related 
Proteins 
Specific Domain 
Interactions and 
Differential 
Protein 
