2 
 
Untraceability  N/A  
Integrity    
Non-repudiation N/A  N/A 
Responsibility N/A N/A  
Forward Secrecy  N/A N/A 
 
三、文獻探討 
Due to data transmission in VANET via wireless transmission, an attacker can easily 
capture VANET packets. As a result, the attacker can easily obtain user’s information, 
revealing sensitive data or vehicle privacy. Protecting data confidentiality and user privacy are 
important issues of VANET. Several researches have focused on these issues, especially the 
user privacy. Some relevant researches currently focus on the privacy protection. Pseudonym 
is one of the most common methods used in these researches.  Pseudonym is a common 
method to protect user privacy. Vehicles use pseudonym in VANET to hide their real identity. 
However, using pseudonym cannot completely protect a vehicle’s privacy, such as tracking. 
The attacker could possibly discover the vehicle's movements and further conspire toward 
some criminal behaviors. For instance, car thieves or kidnappers may use this feature to look 
for an ideal place and timing for conducting crimes. Li et al. mentioned the Swing and Swap 
method which requires vehicles to exchange their pseudonyms. Gerlach et al. proposed the 
Mix-contexts method, in which vehicles can detect car numbers wanting to change their 
pseudonyms. When the number of vehicles is sufficient, they renew pseudonyms together. Xi 
et al. announced a method that mixes the pseudonym with other pseudonyms from nearby 
vehicles to communicate. The main idea of these scholars is change a vehicle’s pseudonym to 
confuse the attacker.  
Although using pseudonym can protect vehicle’s privacy, it may cause other security 
threats. The attacker may hide his identity to compromise VANET security. To solve this 
problem, Choi et al. suggested using different pseudonym life times to give the base station 
the ability to trace vehicles at any given time. Vehicles need the base station's help to verify 
receiving messages. This may increase the time delay for broadcasting warning messages. 
Kim et al. presented another method based on the “Message Authentication Code-Chain”, in 
which the authorization server traces the vehicle’s track through vehicle identities and base 
stations. Kim et al.’s method is not efficient. Moreover, some base stations can collude to 
trace a specific vehicle’s track. Lu et al. proposed a method by which base stations store some 
information related to a vehicle using the vehicle log-in. The base station recovers a vehicle's 
real identity from the data. However, in their method, the base stations can collude to damage 
4 
 
 
Figure 1 Workflow of vehicles in the proposed method 
Table 2  Notation 
Notation Descriptions 
AS Authorization Server. 
RIi Base station’s Identity. 
V Vehicle’s Identity. 
MKAS Secret key of Authorization Server. 
PRj/PUj Private key and Public key of RIi or V, jRIi, V. 
SKj Secret key of RIi or V, jRIi , V. 
KAS-V Pre-shared secret key of Authorization Server and Vehicle. 
E(K, X) Symmetrical encryption by using the secret key K to encrypt the plaintext X. 
wV-RIi Session key shared by vehicle and base station.  
e() Weil paring map. 
H() One way hash function. 
H0() A hash function. {0, 1}* →G1 
H1() A hash function {0, 1}* →Zq* 
H2() A hash function G2 → {0, 1}
n
, n is the key bit length of symmetrical encryption. 
F() Given U∈ G1, F(U) concatenates the coordinates X and Y of U. 
 Operator of cyclic additive group G1 
aR R self-adding a times, R∈G1. 
 Operator of cyclic multiplicative group G2. 
CAS The public parameter announced by Authorization Server. 
rand_lRIi The l- th random number generated by base station RIi. 
G The public generator of G1. 
T Time period. 
tsi  Timestamp of base station or Vehicle, iRIi, 
 
4.1. Weil paring 
Boneh et al. proposed identity-based encryption based on Weil paring. The following 
briefly introduces the features of Weil paring.   
Assume G1 is a cyclic additive group, G2 is a cyclic multiplicative group, G1 and G2 have 
the same order q, Weil paring maps e: G1 G1  G2 satisfying the following characteristics 
(Boneh and Franklin, 2001; Zhang and Kim, 2002): 
Log-in Authentication 
Pseudonym Generating Phase 
Vehicle Broadcasting Hand-over Authentication 
Message 
Message 
move to new 
base station 
move to new 
base station 
6 
 
period. In the other time period, each base station handles two corresponding random 
numbers, the rand_lRIi 
in present time and the rand_(l-1)RIiin previous time. Each base station 
should compute SRIi = rand_lRIi G corresponding to the random number rand_lRIi. Then each 
base station exchanges messages (TRIi, SRIi, RIi) with other neighbor base stations. The base 
station keeps {T*, S*, RIi*} which is a set of its neighbor base stations and their SRI at time T. 
The set {T*, S*, RIi*} for each base station SRIi is not huge because there are not many 
neighbor base stations in the VANET road.  
4.3.1. Log-in Authentication 
The vehicle V uses pseudonym P1 to perform the Log-in Authentication phase with the 
nearest base station RI1 to connect the VANET when it is offline. Figure 3 is the flowchart 
when the vehicle logs-in RI1.  
The pseudonym P1 is revealed in the Log-in Authentication phase. The vehicle should 
secretly obtain another pseudonym from AS via the serving base station RI1 for the next log-in 
or vehicle broadcasting phase to protect user’s privacy. Vehicle P1 performs the Pseudonym 
Generating phase (describe at Section 4.5) after finishing the Log-in Authentication phase. 
 
Figure 3 Log-in authentication flowcharts 
4.3.2. Hand-over Authentication 
The vehicle keeps moving from the serving base station RI1 to the new base station RI2. To 
maintain network service and security, the Hand-over Authentication keeps the vehicle 
connected with the new base station after mutual authentication. The Hand-over 
Authentication needs to reduce authentication latency to make the connection between the 
vehicle and VANET. The proposed method uses the information (T*,RI*,S*) obtained from 
the previous Log-in Authentication or Hand-over Authentication to reduce Hand-over 
V RI1 
Select a nonce N 
Compute wV-RI1 
 
P1|| RI1 || E(H2(wV-RI1), N||H(N)) 
 
RI1|| P1|| E(H2 (wV-RI1),(T*,RI*, S*)||H(N||F(S*)) ) 
Compute w'V-RI1 
Decrypt to get {N, H(N)}, 
 and verify N 
 
Decrypt S* and H(N||F(S*)) and authenticate 
Save(T*, RI*, S*) 
8 
 
make sure only an authorization server can trace the vehicle, the vehicle uses pseudonym  to 
perform the Pseudonym Generating phase to obtain another new pseudonym P3 from AS via 
the serving base station because P2 is disclosed by its broadcasting at this time. The vehicle 
keeps the pseudonym P3 for the next log-in or broadcasting. Figure 5 shows the flowchart of 
vehicle broadcasting.  
 
Figure 5   The flowchart of Vehicle broadcasting 
4.5 Pseudonym Generating Phase 
This phase guarantees the user always holds a new authorized pseudonym that has never 
been revealed in this phase to protect the vehicle’s privacy. The phase  also ensures that the 
vehicle uses the new authorized pseudonym to login or broadcast messages each time.  The 
vehicle should perform this phase to obtain anew authorized pseudonym from AS via the 
serving base station after the Log-in Authentication phase or the Vehicle Broadcasting phase. 
The following steps of this phase allow the vehicle to use pseudonym  to connect to the 
serving base station.  If the vehicle mutually authenticates with the serving base station by 
the Log-in Authentication phase the pseudonym  is an authorized one; otherwise  is 
temporary pseudonym selected by the vehicle itself.  
Step 1. Vehicle V performs the following steps to send new pseudonym request message to 
AS via the serving base station RI. 
Step1.1 Randomly select new nonce N. 
Step1.2 Generate and send new pseudonym request message to RI.  If  is an authorized 
pseudonym, the request message is {Pi||RI||E(KAS-V, N||H(N ))}, where =Pi. 
Otherwise, the request message is {||RI||E(F(wV-RI),Pi||E(KAS-V, N||H(N))}, where 
Pi is an authorized pseudonym held by vehicle but never used. 
Step 1.3 RI forwards {Pi|| E(KAS-V, N ||H(N ))} to AS. 
Step 2. Authorization server (AS) authenticates Vehicle V and generate a new pseudonym to 
it as follow: 
Step2.1. Retrieve the real identity of vehicle V by decrypting Pi with secret key MKAS and 
V * 
Randomly select PRV  Zq*and compute PUV 
Randomly select r1 Zq*,  
Compute Land s 
           || M || L|| s|| PUV|| tsV 
Check timestamp tsV                                                                                                                    
Verify the message 
10 
 
responsibility requirement in the vehicle broadcasting model. Moreover, its computational 
overhead is relatively less than that of other research results. The proposed method is more 
suitable as a security protection mechanism in VANET. The result of this project has been 
accepted to publish at Internal Journal of Ad Hoc and Ubiquitous Computing(SCIE). 
六、參考文獻 
[1] Boneh D. and Franklin M.(2001), “Identity-based encryption from the Weil pairing,” in 
Proceedings of Crypto, LNCS, Vol. 2139, pp. 213-229. 
[2] Choi J. Y., Jakobsson M., and Wetzel S.(2005), “Balancing Auditability and Privacy in 
Vehicular Networks”, in Proceedings of the 1st ACM international workshop on Quality 
of service & security in wireless and mobile networks, Montreal, Quebec, Canada, pp. 79 
– 87 
[3] Gerlach M. and Güttler F.(2007), “Privacy in VANETs using Changing Pseudonyms - 
Ideal and Real”, in Proceedings of IEEE 65th Vehicular Technology Conference, Dublin, 
Ireland,  pp. 2521-2525. 
[4] Hubaux J.-P., Capkun S., and Luo J. (2004), “The Security and Privacy of Smart 
Vehicles,” IEEE Security and Privacy, vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 49–55. 
[5] Kamat P., Baliga A., Trappe W.(2008), “Secure, pseudonymous, and auditable 
communication in vehicular ad hoc networks”, Security and Communication Networks. 
Volume 1, Issue 3, pp. 233 – 244. 
[6] Kim S. H., Kim B. H., Kim Y. K., and Lee D. H.(2008), “Auditable and 
Privacy-Preserving Authentication in Vehicular Networks”, in Proceedings of  The 
Second International Conference on Mobile Ubiquitous Computing, Systems, Services 
and Technologies, Valencia, Spain, pp. 19-24. 
[7] Li M., Sampigethaya K., Huang L., and Poovendran R.(2006), “Swing & Swap: 
User-Centric Approaches Towards Maximizing Location Privacy”, in Proceedings of the 
5th ACM workshop on Privacy in electronic society, Alexandria, VA, USA, pp. 19 - 28. 
[8] Lu R., Lin X., Zhu H., Ho P.-H. and Shen X. (2008), “ECPP:Efficient Conditional 
Privacy Preservation Protocol for Secure Vehicular Communications”, in Proceedings of 
the 27th Conference on Computer Communications, Phoenix, AZ, USA , pp. 1229 – 
1237. 
[9] Leinmüller T., Buttyan L., Hubaux J.-P., Kargl F., Kroh R., Papadimitratos P., Raya M., 
and Schoch E. (2006), “Sevecom - secure vehicle communication”, in Proceedings of 
IST Mobile Summit, Mykonos, Greece, pp. 1-5. 
[10] Leinmüller T., Schoch E. and Maihöfer C.(2007), “Security requirements and solution 
concepts in vehicular ad hoc networks”, in Proceedings of the Fourth Annual Conference 
on Wireless on Demand Network Systems and Services, Oberguyrgl, pp. 84-91  
[11] Parno B. and Perrig A.(2005), “Challenges in Securing Vehicular Networks”, in 
Proceedings of the Fourth Workshop on Hot Topics in Networks (HotNets-IV)., College 
Park, MD USA, pp. 1-6. 
[12] Raimondo M. D., Gennaro R.( 2005), “New approaches for deniable authentication”, in 
Proceedings of the 12th ACM conference on Computer and communications security, 
Alexandria, VA, USA , pp.112-121. 
[13] Raya M. and Hubaux J.-P(2005)., "The security of vehicular ad hoc networks", In 
Proceeding of the 3rd ACM Workshop on Security of Ad Hoc and Sensor 
Networks(SASN), Alexandria, VA, USA,pp.11-21. 
[14] Sampigethaya K., Li M., Huang L., and Poovendran R. (2007), “AMOEBA:Robust 
Location Privacy Scheme for VANET”, IEEE Selected Areas in Communications, 
Volume 25, pp. 1569-1589. 
REF05 
1 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：100 年 7 月 26 日 
一、參加會議經過 
2011 International Conference on Security and Management 簡稱 SAM’11，由 Universal Conference 
Management Systems & Support 所主辦，今年是該會議第十次舉辦，會議時間為 2011 年 07 月 18-21 日，
地點位於美國拉斯維加斯(Las Vegas)，該研討會討論之領域包括：安全演算法(Security algorithms)、電
子與行動商務安全(Security in e-Commerce and m-Commerce)、行動網路安全(Mobile network security)、
金鑰管理科技(Key management techniques)等議題，除了邀請專家專題演講外並供全球相關領域學者發
表論文互相交流。 
  本次會議四天共八個議題由資訊與網路安全相關領域學者發表其論文，相關議題如下： 
1. SECURITY AND ALLIED TECHNOLOGIES 
2. AUTHENTICATION + BIOMETRICS 
3. POLICIES AND RELATED ISSUES + INTRUSION DETECTION 
4. PRIVACY AND RELATED ISSUES 
5. SECRECY METHODS AND RELATED ISSUES + CRYPTOGRAPHY +CRYPTOSYSTEMS + 
WATERMARKING 
6. MALICIOUS CODE + ATTACKS DETECTION 
7. ALGORITHMS AND APPLICATIONS + MANAGEMENT INFRASTRUCTURES 
8. CYBERSECURITY EDUCATION 
今年的學術術研討會也邀請了四位專家學者針對電腦科學與技術相關之議題做一系列專題講
演，擇要摘錄如下 
 
專題演講一 
題  目: How Engineering Mathematics Can Improve Software 
講  者: Prof. David Lorge Parnas 
計畫編號 NSC 99-2221-E-032 -048 
計畫名稱 具保護隱私的安全車載通訊技術之研究 
出國人員
姓名 黃仁俊 
服務機構
及職稱 淡江大學資訊工程系副教授 
會議時間 100 年 7 月 18 日至 100 年 7 月 21 日 會議地點 美國拉斯維加斯 
會議名稱 (中文)2011 安全與管理國際學術研討會議 
(英文) The 2011 International Conference on Security and Management 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)適用於無線都會網路的匿名安全路由協定 
(英文) Anonymous Secure Routing Protocol for Wireless Metropolitan Networks 
REF05 
3 
 
擴及許多研究領域並不侷限於資訊安全，包含資訊科技與生活中各種應用之結合，其改善在生活中資
訊應用的效率及便利性，這些技術皆與一般生活較為貼近也更為實際，如金融與資訊的結合，資訊系
統的改善以及電力科技的改進，皆與目前的生活息息相關。 
    分組討論發表的論文，總共分為 10 個 session 進行，其中包含了安全相關科技、生物特徵驗證、
資訊隱私、密碼技術以及安全演算法等各種資訊安全研究領域的論文，而此次會議中，不但聆聽了許
多與會者的報告，在報告過程中，也與許多專家學者進行討論，並針對不同研究方向進行了解，會議
每日都會舉行 Poster Session，我們在 Poster Session 與許多專家學者進行交流，並且從中了解各國專家
學者目前所進行的研究方向，包含了雲端計算環境的各種安全技術、各種密碼技術的改進以及無線網
路資料的安全等議題。 
    在本次交流活動中，藉由與各國專家學者交流的機會，可將本國之學術成果推展出去，進而提升
我國之學術能見度，並且可以了解各國研究的研究趨勢與方向，進而開闊我們的視野，以提升研究之
創意及想法。 
三、建議 
  個人認為參加大型研討會有助於學術之交流與成長，並且有助於將本國之學術成果擴展出去，以
提升我國之學術能見度。此外，也可以瞭解不同國度的研究人員及研究生的研究趨勢與方向，甚至不
同的做事態度，可給我們很多成長與刺激，因此建議國科會或政府機關可以多提供出國的補助以拓展
視野。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. 論文光碟 
2. 筆記型電腦包 
3. 論文集 
 
Anonymous Secure Routing Protocol for Wireless 
Metropolitan Networks 
Ren-Junn Hwang
1
, and Yu-Kai Hsiao
 2 
junhwang@ms35.hinet.net
 1, 
Shiaukae@gmail.com
 2
 
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering Tamkang University Taipei,Taiwan 
 
 
Abstract—This paper proposes efficient concepts of 
anonymous and secure routing protocol considering 
symmetric and asymmetric communication models for 
Wireless Metropolitan Networks.   A wireless metropolitan 
network is a group of wireless access points and several 
kinds of wireless devices (or nodes) in which individual 
nodes cooperate by forwarding packets for each other to 
allow nodes to communicate beyond the symmetric or 
asymmetric model.  Asymmetric communication is a 
special feature of Wireless Metropolitan Network because 
of the different wireless transmission ranges of wireless 
devices. With asymmetric communication model, message 
exchange can be more efficient in metropolitan scale 
network. Providing security and privacy in Wireless 
Metropolitan Networks has been an important issue over 
the last few years.  This paper proposes concepts of 
routing protocol beyond symmetric and asymmetric model, 
which guarantees security and anonymity of the 
established route in a hostile environment, such as 
Wireless Metropolitan Networks. The routes generated by 
the proposed concept are shorter than those in prior works.  
The wireless clients out of access point wireless 
transmission range may anonymously discover a secure 
route to connect to the access point for Internet access via 
the protocol based on the proposed concepts. The 
proposed concepts enhance wireless metropolitan network 
coverage in assuring security and anonymity. 
Keywords: Asymmetric communication, Wireless 
metropolitan networks, Secures routing, Anonymous 
routing 
 
1 Introduction 
  Wireless Metropolitan network (WMNs) integrates 
several kinds of networks such as ad hoc networks and 
wireless infrastructure networks in metropolitan area. This 
kind of network is formed by access point and wireless 
clients. Wireless client can be any kind of wireless device. 
Access points function as a gateway/bridge in negotiating 
different kinds of networks. It allows wireless devices with 
different communication protocols to communicate each 
other and provide a larger wireless coverage area than 
traditional wireless networks.  
 Wireless metropolitan networks (WMNs) combine 
several kinds of wireless devices. Each device may provide 
different communication and computation capability.  
WMNs provide different communication styles. In the 
WMN scenario in Figure 1, User S has a larger 
transmission range than A and B. Both A and B can receive 
messages from S directly, but only A can reply to S directly.  
B can reply to S via A indirectly.  This paper names the 
adjacent users of WMNs in communication using the 
symmetric model if they communicate each other directly 
such as Users (S, A) and Users (A, B) in Figure 1. The user 
names its partner as the regular-neighbor if they can 
communicate in the symmetric model. This paper names the 
adjacent users of WMNs in communication using the 
asymmetric model if the user can communicate with its 
partner directly but the partner can only communicate with 
it via another user indirectly, such as Users (S, B) in Figure 
1.  The user names its partner as semi-neighbor if it 
communicates with its partner directly but the partner can 
only communicate with it via another user indirectly.  The 
partner names the user as its rev-semi-neighbor.  For 
example, User B is User S’s semi-neighbor and User S is 
User B’s rev-semi-neighbor in Figure 1.  The WMN 
includes both symmetric and asymmetric models for each 
adjacent user, while the wireless ad hoc network only 
provides a symmetric model.  The WMNs will enhance or 
provide more functionality based on communication in the 
asymmetric model. 
 
Figure 1.  Scenario of communication in symmetric and asymmetric 
models. 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：黃仁俊 計畫編號：99-2221-E-032-048- 
計畫名稱：具保護隱私的安全車載通訊技術之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
