國科會專題研究結案報告 
電磁晶體結構中不規則色散現象之研究 
The Correlation between a Negative Group Velocity and a Slanted 
Stop-Band in Two-Dimensionally Periodic Structures 
黃瑞彬 博士 
副教授 
電信工程系交通大學 
Abstract 
In this report, we employed the rigorous mode-matching method to carry out the 
calculation for the scattering characteristics of a two-dimensionally periodic structure 
made up of metallic rectangular cylinders.  From the scattering characteristics, the 
interesting phenomenon of an anomalous dispersion was observed to possess negative 
group velocities.  In order to understand the underlying physics involved, we begin 
with the investigation of the band structure associated with the corresponding 
structure of infinite extent; thereby, the band structures are classified into two types: 
vertical stop-band that is due to mainly the effect of periodicity in a single direction 
and slanted stop-band that is due to the combined effect of periodicities in two 
directions.  Notably, the negative group velocity (delay) within the slanted stop-band 
of a 2-D periodic structure was directly related to the experimentally measurable 
scattering characteristics of the finite structure.  
 1
their invention, a resonant circuit is embedded within each loaded transmission line 
unit cell, resulting in a region of anomalous dispersion for which the group delay is 
negative [ Siddiqui, Mojahedi, and Eleftheriades, 2003].   
In our recent publication [Hwang, 2004], we have investigated the relationship 
between the scattering characteristic and the band structure of a two-dimensionally 
electromagnetic crystal containing metal and dielectric medium.  Therein, we have 
demonstrated the relationship between the transmission spectrum and the band 
structure of a 2-D periodic structure.  Specifically, two types of stop-band were 
clearly identified: one is referred to as the vertical type and the other as the slanted 
type.  The former consists of the commonly known stop-bands that are due to the 
effect of one dimensional periodicity; thus, each vertical stop-band has a constant 
phase over the entire stop-band.  On the other hand, the later consists of the 
stop-bands that are slanted at an angle on the ko-β diagram (a part of the standard 
Brillouin diagram) and that are attributed to the combined effect of the periodicities in 
two dimensions.  Notably, the 1-D periodic structure can also support the slanted 
stop-band.  The dispersion analysis of the shielded Sievenpiper structure [Elek, and 
Eleftheriades, 2004] has been proved to support the slanted stop-band, caused by the 
contra-directional coupling between the fundamental backward-wave harmonic and 
an underlying forward parallel-plate mode.  
In this report, we present a thorough investigation on a 2-D periodic structure that is 
composed of rectangular metallic cylinders immersed in a uniform medium.  Since 
the shape of the metallic cylinders considered here is rectangular and the material is 
assumed to be perfect electric conductor, the electric fields inside the metal cylinder 
are zero and those outside the metal region are expressed in terms of the superposition 
of waveguide modes (parallel-plate waveguide modes).  These waveguide modes 
inherently satisfy the electromagnetic boundary condition; therefore, this could speed 
up the numerical convergence for the tangential electric and magnetic fields.  
Besides, in the numerical computation, all the mathematical procedures resort to the 
matrix operation; the dimensions of these matrices are proportional to the number of 
space harmonics (waveguide modes) truncated.  Thus, the speed of computation and 
required memory space directly relate to the number of space harmonics.  To ensure 
the accuracy of numerical results, we have carried out convergence test for both the 
scattering and dispersion analyses against the number of space harmonics (or 
 3
incidence.  Moreover, the dispersion relation of a 2-D periodic medium was 
calculated and demonstrated to verify the negative group velocity in the slanted 
stop-band region.  In the final section, we conclude this report by making some 
remarks. 
 
 
Figure 1: Structure configuration of a 2-D periodic structure made up of a stack of 
1-D periodic layers; (a) 2-D periodic structure and (b) 1-D periodic layer 
2. Description of this problem 
The structure under consideration is a 2-D periodic structure with finite thickness.  
As shown in figure 1(a), the rectangular metal rods are immersed in a dielectric host 
medium.  The array of rods repeats themselves infinitely in the x-direction but is 
 5
obtained for a single layer can then be cascaded for the analysis of both the scattering 
characteristics of the finite stack of 1D metal gratings and the band structure of 2-D 
periodic medium.  For instance, the scattering characteristics of the finite stack of 
1-D metal periodic layers can be determined by successively using the well-known 
combination rule for each scattering matrix.  For the band structure calculations, one 
can apply the Bloch condition (periodic boundary condition) along the y-direction to 
establish the relationship of the wave amplitudes at the two (input and output) 
interfaces of the unit cell to form a generalized eigenvalue problem.  Each 
eigen-value, in general, represents a complex propagation constant of the wave 
propagating in the medium, with the real and imaginary parts standing for the phase 
and attenuation constants along the y-direction.  Upon determining the eigen-values, 
the corresponding eigen-vector can be obtained; and thus the field profile in the 
structure was totally resolved.  Since the detail mathematical formulation was well 
developed in the literature, in the next section, we only listed some important 
equations for easy reference. 
A. Scattering Matrix for a 1-D Metal Periodic Layer 
Referring to figure 1(b), a 1-D metal grating of finite thickness is connected to 
uniform medium with the relative dielectric constant rε .  The region between two 
metal rods can be regarded as a ppwg.  The tangential electric and magnetic fields 
inside this region can be expressed in terms of the superposition of the ppwg modes, 
defined below: 
 )()(),( xyvyxE n
n
nt φ∑=  (1a) 
 )()(),( xyiyxH n
n
nt φ∑=  (1b) 
 
⎪⎪⎩
⎪⎪⎨
⎧
=
=
=
,....3,2,0,cos
,....3,2,1,sin2
)(
n
w
xn
w
n
w
xn
wx
n
n πγ
π
φ  (1c) 
with  ⎩⎨
⎧
≠
==
02
01
, for n
, for n
nγ
 7
 )(
)(
yvYjk
dy
ydi
nnyn
n −=  (4b) 
 
2
2 2 ⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ +−=
a
nkkk xroyn
πε  (4c) 
 Zn =1/Yn =
ωµo
kyn
;TE
kyn
ωεoεr ;TM
⎧ 
⎨ 
⎪ ⎪ 
⎩ 
⎪ ⎪ 
 (4d) 
where Zn(Yn) is the characteristic impedance (admittance) of the nth space harmonic 
propagating along the y-direction in uniform region. 
Based on the electromagnetic boundary conditions, the tangential electric and 
magnetic field must be continuous across the step discontinuities.  After matching 
the tangential field components at the interface by using the overlap integral between 
the eigen-functions in the uniform and ppwg regions, we obtain a coupling matrix 
which defines the relationship between the eigen modes in respective regions, and 
what follow is the scattering matrix defined at that interface.  As shown in figure 
1(b), we take nth 1-D periodic layer as an example to illustrate.  Since each 1-D 
periodic layer contains two step discontinuities and a finite length uniform 
transmission line in the parallel-plate region, the scattering matrix of the 1-D periodic 
layer is obtained by cascading these three scattering matrices, yielding: 
 ⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛=⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛ ++
)(
)1(
)(
)(
)1(
n
n
n
n
n
u
d
d
u S  (5) 
Where scattering matrix S(n) is a full matrix whose elements are dependent on the 
structure parameters as well as the incident conditions.  u(i) and d(i) denote the 
upward and downward propagating waves, respectively. 
B. Scattering Characteristics of a Finite 2-D Periodic Structure 
As described above, the 2-D periodic structure is considered as the finite stack of 1-D 
periodic layers.  Namely, if the input-output relation of the 1-D periodic layer is 
determined, the scattering characteristic of the 2-D periodic structure is the cascade of 
those 1-D ones.  This is the so-called building block approach, which was commonly 
 9
C. Dispersion Relation of Wave Propagating in the 2-D Periodic Medium 
In addition to the scattering characteristics for a finite thickness 2-D periodic structure, 
in this section, we would like to investigate the dispersion relation of the waves 
propagating in a 2-D periodic medium.  According to Bloch’s condition, a wave 
traveling through a period b, as shown in figure 1(b), experiences a phase difference 
( λ ), that is: 
 )()1( nn uu λ=+  (10a) 
 )()1( nn dd λ=+  (10b) 
By substituting (10a and 10b) into (7), we obtain the following matrix equation:  
 ⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
−
−=⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
− )(
)(
21
11
)(
)(
22
12
n
n
n
n
d
u
SO
SI
d
u
IS
OS λ  (11) 
Equation (11) is a generalized eigenvalue problem with the form xBxA λ= , which 
can be solved immediately by conventional numerical packages.  Such an eigenvalue 
problem may be cast into a system of linear homogeneous equations, and the 
condition for the existence of non-trivial solution requires the vanishing in the 
determinant of the coefficient matrix.  This yields the dispersion relation: 
  (12) 0det
2122
1112 =⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
+−
−
SIS
SIS
λ
λλ
Here, the eigenvalue λ represents the phase delay of a wave traveling through a period 
along the y-direction.  It depends on the propagation constant (ky) and the period b as 
well, and can be written as: 
 )exp( bjk y−=λ  (13) 
So far, we have derived the dispersion relation of the waves propagating in such a 
class of 2D periodic medium.  We have the relationship among the three parameters: 
kx, ky and ko, of which any desired parameter may be determined for a given set of the 
other two parameters.  For example, if the incident condition is specified for the 
component of kx under a certain frequency of operation ko, we can determine the value 
of ky by solving the eigenvalue in (11).  With ko fixed, the relationship between kx 
 11
20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55
Frequency (GHz)
-70
-60
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
Tr
an
sm
itt
an
ce
 (d
B)
calculate-reference
measure-reference
the present paper
 
Figure 2: Comparison of the transmittance efficiency of a 2-D periodic structure 
containing metal rods array among the experimental and numerical results [after L. C. 
Bottom and et al.], and our numerical results using mode-matching method 
In the following numerical examples, we calculate the scattering of plane waves by a 
two-dimensionally metallic cylinder arrays.  Hereafter, we have normalized all the 
dimensions to the period a along the x-direction.  The width of the square cylinder is 
assumed to be 0.25a.  The number of periods along the y-direction is 10.   
Figure 3(a) depicted the convergence test for the transmitted- and 
reflected-efficiencies against the number of space harmonics employed in the 
numerical analysis.  We changed the number of space harmonics progressively from 
3 to 101 to inspect the variation of transmitted- and reflected-efficiencies (powers).  
The incident angle was assumed to be θinc = 20o.   The operation normalized 
frequency was a/λ=0.9.  In this calculation, the incident power was normalized to 
unity for easily checking the power conservation criterion.  The incident power must 
be equal to the sum of the transmitted- and reflected-powers (power conservation), 
since the metal cylinders were assumed to be lossless (perfect electric conductor).  
From this figure, we could observe that the total power (transmitted- plus 
reflected-powers) actually is equal to unity (the error percentage is less than 10-6 %).  
Besides, both the transmitted- and reflected- power converges to certain values as the 
 13
5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100
Number of space harmonics
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
β ya
/2
π
-0.084
-0.08
-0.076
-0.072
α ya
/2
πIncident Angle = 20onormalized frequency (a/λ=0.75)
 
Figure 3(b): convergence test for the dispersion roots of the wave propagations in a 
2-D periodic medium versus number of space harmonics 
Prior to demonstrate the numerical results concerning negative group velocity, we 
define some parameters frequently used in the ensuing numerical examples as follows.  
When we neglect the end effect due to the two interfaces at the input and output ports, 
the phase constant of the wave propagating in a 2-D periodic structure is 
approximated by φ = -βL, where φ is the phase angle in radians, β is the phase 
constant and L is the total length where the wave propagates through.  Thus, the 
phase velocity could be written as: vp = ω/β = -Lω/φ.  On the other hand, the group 
index ng is defined as the ratio of C to group velocity vg, where C is the speed of light 
propagating in vacuum.  Moreover, the relation between the group index and phase 
angle is written as:
o
g dk
d
L
n φ1−= . 
 15
two-dimensionally periodic structure with finite thickness can be predicted by the 
dispersion relation of the same structure but with infinite extent (2-D periodic 
medium).  Before calculating the rigorous dispersion curves of the 2-D periodic 
medium, we first consider a small perturbation problem; that is, the periodic 
variations along the x- and y-directions tend to zero.  Under this assumption, we can 
have a simple equation to approximate the dispersion relation of the space harmonics 
in the x-and y-directions, which is given as: 
 effoyx ka
nk
a
mk εππ 222 )2()2( ≈+++  (14) 
Where kx and ky are the propagation constants along the x- and y-directions, 
respectively.  The index m and n, ranging from negative to positive infinity, are the 
space harmonic along the x- and y-directions.  The parameter effε  is the effective 
dielectric constant of the medium.  Figure 5 depicts the dispersion curves for the 
small perturbation approximation obtained by (14).  In this example, the propagation 
constant along the x-direction is set to be kx=kosin20o.  The horizontal axis represents 
the phase (right-hand side) and attenuation (left-hand side) constants along the 
y-direction, respectively, while the vertical axis denotes the normalized frequency a/λ.  
The index pair attached to each curve shows the order of space harmonic; the first one 
is for the x-direction, and the second one is for the y-direction, respectively.  For 
example, the two straight lines denoted by (m = 0, n = 0) and (m = 0, n = -1) represent 
the curves contributed by the 1-D periodic structure along the y-direction only.  On 
the contrary, the other two hyperbolic curves denoted by (m = -1, n = 0) and (m = -1, n 
= -1) attribute to the periods in both the x- and y-directions.  On the basis of 
coupled-mode theory, the intersection of two dispersion curves stands for the phase 
matching between two waves.  The contra-flow or co-flow coupling occurs in the 
vicinity of intersection points.  In this example, the intersection points marked by 
circles and arranged in alphabetical order are mainly due to the contra-flow coupling 
between two space harmonics.  Through such a small perturbation analysis, it could 
provide us a basic understanding for the possible physical consequence involved in a 
2-D periodic structure. 
 17
in which the phase curve has a negative slope.  Consequently, it is evident to 
recognize that in the slanted stop-band region the wave possesses a negative group 
velocity.  In short, through the calculation on the dispersion relation of the waves 
propagating in a 2-D periodic medium, we could prove that the negative group index 
is contributed by the slanted stop-band, which is due to the contra-flow interaction 
between the fundamental space harmonic and the higher-order space harmonic 
contributed by the combined effect in both periodicities.   
-0.3 -0.2 -0.1 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1
0.3
0.35
0.4
0.45
0.5
0.55
0.6
0.65
0.7
0.75
0.8
0.85
0.9
N
or
m
al
iz
ed
 F
re
qu
en
cy
 (a
/λ)
-0.3 -0.2 -0.1 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1
Transmittance (amplitude) of Vt(n=0)
αya/2π βya/2π
A
BB'
C
 
Figure 6: Exact dispersion curves for the 2-D periodic medium and the strength of 
transmittance for the 2-D periodic structure with finite thickness 
On the other hand, we calculated the normalized phase constant by using the phase 
delay angle of the transmittance spectra and presented in figure 7.  The real part of 
the dispersion roots was attached in this figure for easy reference.  The normalized 
phase-constant curve obtained by the scattering analysis follows that one obtained by 
the dispersion analysis of the 2-D periodic medium.  Besides, the group index of the 
transmittance, as shown in dashed line, has also been calculated and plotted in this 
figure.  One can clearly observe that the NGV indeed occurs in the slanted stop-band 
region.  At band edges, the group velocity is zero, so that the group index must be 
infinite.  Since the group index is positive outside the slanted stop band, it must 
undergo a zero or a pole to become negative inside.  While the negative group index 
 19
0 0.050.10.150.2 0.25 0.30.350.4 0.45 0.50.550.6 0.650.7 0.750.8 0.850.9 0.95 1
a/λ
-120
-110
-100
-90
-80
-70
-60
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
un
w
ra
pp
ed
 p
ha
se
 d
el
ay
 a
ng
le
 (i
n 
ra
di
an
s)
Number of Periods in y direction
10
14
18
 
Figure 8: Unwrapped phase angle versus frequency for various thicknesses of 2-D 
periodic structures 
Figure 9 shows the distribution of the group index against the normalized frequency 
for three different thicknesses of the 2-D periodic structure: the numbers of 1-D 
periodic layers along the y-direction are N=10, 15 and 20, respectively.  We could 
observe, from this figure, that the group delay (in absolute value) increases in 
accordance with the increase in the thickness of the 2-D periodic structure.  
Furthermore, the increase in the number of 1-D periodic layer only strengthens the 
attenuation of the wave in the stop-band region.  It affects insignificantly on the 
bandwidth of the stop-band.  It is the reason why the region with negative group 
delay retains their bandwidth for these three cases. 
 21
      
Figure 10(a)                       Figure 10(b) 
      
          Figure 10(c)                          Figure 10(d) 
      
           Figure 10(e)                        Figure 10(f) 
In addition to the case shown in figure 4, we have also calculated some examples with 
different incident angles to see the variation on the frequency range of negative group 
 23
University, Hsinchu, Taiwan, for his encouragement and valuable comments in 
improving this manuscript.  The author would thank reviewers for their valuable 
comments in revising this manuscript.   
6. Reference 
Botten, L. C., Nicorovici, N. A., Asatryan, A. A., McPhedran, R. C., de Sterke, C. M., 
and Robinson, P. A., “Formulation for electromagnetic scattering and propagation 
through grating stacks of metallic and dielectric cylinders for photonic crystal 
calculations. Part I. Method, J. Opt. Soc. Am., vol. A 17, pp. 2165-2176, 2000. 
Elek, F. and Eleftheriades, G. V., "Dispersion analysis of Sievenpiper's shielded 
structure using multi-conductor transmission-line theory," IEEE Microwave and 
Wireless Components Letters , vol. 14, no. 9, pp. 434-436 , September, 2004. 
Elliott, R. S., “On the theory of corrugated plane surfaces.” IRE Trans. Antennas 
Propagat., vol. 2, pp. 71-81, April 1954. 
Enoch, S., Tayeb, G. and Gralak, B., “The Richness of the Dispersion Relation of 
Electromagnetic Bandgap Materials”, IEEE transactions on antennas and 
propagations, Vol. 51, No. 10,October 2003, pp. 2659-2666 
Fan, S., Villeneuve, P. R., and Joannopulos, J. D., “Large omnidirectional band gaps 
in metallodielectric photonic crystals”, Physical Review B, vol. 54, pp. 
11245-11251, 1996. 
Gralak, B., Enoch, S. and Tayeb, G., “Anonalous refractive properties of photonic 
crystals,” J. Opt. Soc. Amer. A. Vol. 17, pp. 1012-1020, June, 2000. 
Hall, R. C., Mittra, R and Mitzner, K. M., “Analysis of multilayered periodic 
structures using generalized scattering matrix theory,” IEEE Trans. Antennas 
Propagat., vol.36, No. 4, pp. 511-517, April, 1988 
Hwang, R. B., “Relations between the reflectance and band structure of 2-D 
metallodielectric electromagnetic crystals,” IEEE transactions on antennas and 
propagations, Vol. 52, No. 6, June 2004. 
Hwang, R. B. and Peng, S. T., “Scattering and guiding Characteristics of Waveguides 
with Two-Dimensionally Periodic Walls of Finite Thickness,” Journal of Radio 
Science, 38 (5): 1091-1103, OCT 23, 2003 
Mekis, A., Fan, S., and Joannopoulos, J. D., “Absorbing boundary conditions for 
FDTD simulations of photonic crystal waveguides”, IEEE Microwave and Guided 
Wave Letters, vol. 9, pp. 502-504, Dec. 1999. 
Maystre, D., “Electromagnetic study of photonic band gaps,” Pure Appl. Opt. , vol. 3, 
pp. 975-993, Nov. 1994. 
Mojahedi, M., Malloy, K. J., Eleftheriades, G. V., Woodley, J., and Chiao, R. Y., 
“Abnormal wave propagation in passive media,” IEEE J. Select. Topics Quantum 
Electron., vol. 9, pp. 30–39, Jan./Feb. 2003. 
Notomi, M, “Theory of light propagation in strongly modulated photonic crystals: 
 25
