 2
supporting wood stick prior to the experiments. When it comes to the step of dilution, 
the cone-shaped bottom of the ice rod is placed in a position that “just touches” the 
surface of the polymer solution and then elevated in accordance with the rising level 
of supernatant to avoid disturbing the settled immunoadsorbent until it reaches the 
mark line. This mark line is artificially made in advance and is used to indicate the 
required amount of dilution. 
 
MATERIALS AND METHOD 
Characterization of the immunoadsorption walls  
Maximum coupling dosage of antibody. Normal serum containing presumably 
saturating β-2M from uremic urine was used to determine the highest coupling 
density of antibody. The six iWalls were each simultaneously loaded with 1 mL of 
human serum supplemented with 120 µg of β-2M and were incubated at 37℃ in water 
bath for 4 h with gentle shaking every 20 min. Then, samples (20 µl) were collected 
from the supernatant at 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4 h respectively. The binding activity was 
regenerated by washing three times with 0.3 M glycine-HCl solution (pH 2.8) after 
each test. The time course change of the β-2M levels was assayed by the enzyme 
linked immunoassay. 
Maximum binding capacity of β-2M. The iWall with the highest coupling 
density of antibody (iWallmax) was employed to investigate the effect of initial β-2M 
levels on the removal efficacy and estimate the maximum binding capacity. The 
iWallmax was loaded with a series of 1 mL of human serum supplemented with 
increasing quantities of β-2M (10, 30, 60, 90, 120 µg) and each run of 
immunoadsorption test was conducted following the regeneration of the iWallmax. The 
sampling process and assay procedure were identical with the protocol used to 
determine the maximum coupling dosage of antibody. 
Specificity. Human serum albumin was used to evaluate the selective removal 
process of the iWall. Normal serum withdrawn from a healthy donor was added to the 
iWall (initial antibody dosage = 20 mg/mL Sepharose) and allowed to incubate for 4 h 
at 37℃. Samples were taken before and after this period and the serum albumin levels 
were assayed to assess the removal specificity in terms of the possible loss of 
desirable essential components. 
Morphology. To check if its inner structure is consistent or similar with as 
previously expected, one of the iWalls  (initial antibody dosage = 5 mg/mL 
Sepharose) was cut into shreds after finishing the antigen-binding tests. Microscopic 
photographs of the shreds were taken using Optem Zoom 125C Micro-Inspection 
Lens System (Qioptiq Inc., Rochester, New York, USA) and its morphology was 
visually examined from the superficial, cross-sectional, and interfacial views 
 4
immunoadsorbent could best result in the successful, reproducible finished products. 
Therefore, the 10 mL of dilution volume was adopted throughout the present study. 
 
Characterization of the immunoadsorption walls  
In all runs of adsorption tests, the time course levels of β-2M show clear trend of 
regular and steady descent. The amount of β-2M bound to each iWalls increased with 
the elevated initial antibody coupling dose until the binding capacity reached a plateau 
at the initial antibody dosage of 30~50 mg/ml Sepharose. At the point of 50 mg/ml, 
we could assume that the antibody coupling density was maximized in this 
experimental setting and the corresponding iWall was designated iWallmax. 
 
Generally, it appears that the higher the initial levels, the more β-2M molecules are 
bound to the iWall, but this trend slows down as the initial levels exceed 90 mg/ml, 
which is assumed to be over-saturating. Also, it is noted that the iWall captured almost 
all of the initial free β-2M antigens when relatively low initial levels were applied. 
The binding capacity of the iWallmax can be roughly estimated from the experimental 
results to be 16.58 µg/cm2. 
 
Moreover, the specificity of the removal of β-2M by an iWall was examined by 
comparing the levels of the representative protein, serum albumin, before and after the 
contact experiment. The preliminary results indicate that the concentration of albumin 
was only marginally changed from 4.53 to 4.33 g/dL (n=5) and the values fluctuate 
with the range of 2%. 
 
The microscopic morphology of a typical iWall from superficial, cross-sectional, and 
interfacial views respectively clearly manifests that the present ployacrylamide-based 
iWalls well embody the essential characteristics of the original immunoadsorption 
wall concepts. 
 
In-vitro removal of beta-2-microglobulin from uremic blood 
The levels of β-2M decrease from 28.38 µg/ml to 4.26 µg/ml for the serum from the 
patient with the duration of 15 years and from 16.56 µg/ml to 0.66 µg/ml for the 
serum from the patient with the duration of 7 years, respectively, on the average. Both 
of the results demonstrated the remarkable removal efficacy of β-2M by the iWall. 
 
The first experience of handling whole blood 
The whole blood experiment was terminated at the 2nd h after starting the test when 
minor hemolysis phenomena started to be visually observed, mostly near the region of 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/01/21
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以免疫吸附牆去除尿毒血液中乙型微球蛋白之研究
計畫主持人: 楊宗樺
計畫編號: 98-2622-E-230-011-CC3 學門領域: 有機化工材料
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本研究計畫在團隊成員與合作廠商、醫院的努力之下，順利完成。雖然，由於
實際執行的困難度與耗材支出均略高於原先所預期，以致未能百分百達成原訂
每一目標項目，然確已獲致良好成果。過去一年，不只成果已發表於 2010 生化
工程研討會、正修科技大學舉辦之第五屆國際學術研討會，亦通過日本筑波大
學(University of Tsukuba, Japan) 與英國皇家化學學會(Royal Society of 
Chemistry, Britain)合辦之「2011 國際生醫材料競賽」之審查，將於今年三
月前往日本展示研究成果。此外，也已全文投稿至國際著名期刊 Artificial 
Organs，接受審查。從目前研究所達成的結果，我們相信免疫吸附牆技術具有
未來臨床實際應用之可能與價值，值得進一步探討其濳力。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
