micelles. Our results showed that PEI-SA micelles 
provided high siRNA binding efficiency and exhibited 
low cytotoxicity compared to unmodified PEI. siRNA 
delivered by PEI-SA carriers also demonstrated 
significantly higher cellular uptake efficiency and 
stability even in the presence of serum proteins when 
compared to free siRNA. In the animal model study, 
the combination effect of co-delivering doxorubicin 
and VEGF siRNA by PEI-SA micelles showed a promising 
synergistic effect on anti-tumor growth. 
英文關鍵詞： Nanoparticles, PEI-SA, micelles, gelatin, poly-
ethyleneimine (PEI), gene vector, gene therapy 
 
 2
中   華   民   國  101 年  9 月  28 日 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
█  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：█已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 █洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
1.Hong-Yi Huang, Ming-Ju Chou, Meng-Chaw Wu, Wei-Ti Kuo, Yi-You Huang. Surface modification 
of glatin nanoparticles with polyethylenimine as gene vector. Journal of Nanomaterials. 2011, ID 
646538 (SCI) 
2. Hong-Yi Huang, Wei-Ti Kuo, Ming-Ju Chou, Yi-You Huang*. Co-delivery of Anti-VEGF siRNA and 
Doxorubicin by Multifunctional Polymeric Micelle for Tumor Growth Suppression. J. Biomedical 
Materials Research: Part A. 2011, 97A:330-338.(SCI). 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
本計劃利用明膠做為製備奈米粒子之材料，並將奈米粒子表面修飾不同分子量之聚乙
烯亞胺(PEI)，以提高奈米粒子之帶正電性，此帶正電性之明膠-聚乙烯亞胺奈米粒子可作
為攜帶基因之載體。利用量測奈米粒子之粒徑及表面電位可得最佳化之明膠-聚乙烯亞胺
奈米粒子，並評估其細胞毒性及基因轉殖效率。另外也用硬脂酸(SA)修飾聚乙烯亞胺
(PEI) ，由硬脂酸的高生物相容性，及低生物毒性等特性，與聚乙烯亞胺（PEI）結合後製
成奈米雙極性微粒，藉由 PEI 的修飾使其帶有正電荷後，再與 DNA 或 siRNA 結合，進行
轉殖基因的表現或 RNA 干擾（RNA interference, RNAi），達到具專一性調節基因表達功
能。動物試驗結果顯示，以 PEI-SA 微胞同時攜帶 doxorubicin 與 VEGF siRNA 對腫瘤有
很好的治療效果，其治療效果具有加乘作用，是一個很有潛力的多功能載體。 
 
4 
siRNA have also been investigated as anti-cancer 
therapy in the attempt to suppress malignant tumor 
growth or metastasis [2-3]. In particular, the 
inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor 
(VEGF) expression of tumor cells by VEGF targeted 
siRNA holds great promise in cancer therapy. This is 
due to the fact that VEGF appears to be a critical 
regulator for the angiogenesis of tumor growth. 
Tumor growth often requires adequate blood supply 
to deliver oxygen and nutrition for cancer cells. 
Therefore, as RNAi silences VEGF expression, 
tumor-induced angiogenesis can be reduced, leading 
to down regulation of cancer cell proliferation and 
tumor growth suppression. However, once 
introduced into the system circulation, siRNA 
complex faces a series of hurdles such as kidney 
filtration, uptake by phagocytes, aggregation with 
serum proteins, and enzymatic degradation [4]. For 
these reasons, an additional delivery vehicle system 
is often required to transmit the siRNA or even assist 
to enhance and facilitate knock down efficiency. 
 In the first year, we have investigated the 
gelatin-PEI nanoparticles for gene delivery. 
Polymeric micelles are self-assembled nanoparticles 
composed of amphiphilic materials with a structure 
which includes a hydrophobic core and hydrophilic 
corona. These nanoparticles range in size from 5 to 
200 nm and have been shown to exhibit high cellular 
uptake of tumor cells due to the enhanced 
permeability and retention (EPR) effect originating 
from the leakiness of tumor vasculature [5]. This 
enhancement of cellular uptake can result in 
increased drug concentration in the tumor cells and 
improve the pharmacological efficacy [6]. In 
addition, the amphiphilic structure of micelles can 
provide advantages for multifunctional tasks; such 
that hydrophilic shell modified with cationic charges 
can electrostatically interact with siRNA or DNA, 
and hydrophobic core can serve as a payload for 
hydrophobic drugs. 
A number of polymeric micelles consisting of 
cationic polymers have already been widely adopted 
as carriers for gene and drug delivery systems [7-12].  
Among these cationic polymers, polyethyleneimine 
(PEI) has been demonstrated to have tremendous 
potential in gene therapy with high transfection 
efficiency both in vitro and in vivo [13-14]. PEI 
possesses high pH-buffering capacity which serves 
as a “proton sponge”, that is, buffering of the 
endosomes by accumulation of ions within the 
vesicles.  This buffering provides protection to 
nucleotides and promotes the burst-release of 
nucleotides from the acidic vesicles due to the 
increasing osmotic pressure [14-15]. However, it has 
been reported that cytotoxicity of PEI increases with 
high molecular weight [13-14]. In our previous study, 
modification of PEI structure by grafting stearic acid 
reduced the cytotoxicity of PEI associated with 
higher molecular masses and high doses, and 
improved the insufficient transfection efficiency of 
lower molecular weight PEI for potential application 
in gene therapy . 
Doxorubicin has been used as a chemotherapeutic 
drug for clinical treatment of various types of 
carcinoma. The side effects of doxorubicin are still a 
major concern due to the non-selective characteristic 
and the high dosage required to achieve therapeutic 
effects. Therefore, encapsulation with polymeric 
carriers has often been considered to reduce the side 
effects and improve the antitumor activity. In 
addition, the concept of co-delivery of drugs and 
nucleotides has also been proposed to enhance or 
modulate gene expression or to accomplish the 
synergistic effect of chemo- and genetic-therapy 
[12].  
In this study, we have designed a biodegradable 
cationic amphiphilic copolymer, which consists of 
stearyl side chains on a cationic PEI main chain. By 
a self-assembly process, this copolymer can easily 
form core-shell nanoparticles with a hydrophobic 
core and a cationic shell in an aqueous environment. 
This carrier can incorporate chemotherapeutic 
6 
light system (UVB-1, Apices Scientific, Taiwan). 
2.2.6 Cytotoxicity analysis 
Huh7 (human hepatoma) cells were cultured in 
complete medium containing Dulbecco’s modified 
Eagle medium (DMEM) (Gibco, Paris, France) 
supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) 
and 1% streptomycin and penicillin. The cells were 
seeded with a density of 4x103 cells per well in a 
96-well plate and incubated overnight at 37 °C and 
humidified 5% CO2  in an incubator. Various 
concentrations of the complex carriers were then 
treated in each well and evaluated on day 5. 
Cytotoxicity was analyzed by Cell Titer 96 Aqueous 
One Solution Cell Proliferation Assay (Promega, 
Wisconsin, USA) according to the manufacturer＇s 
protocol. Briefly, cells were pre-washed with PBS 
and replaced with 100 　 l of fresh complete 
medium. Twenty microliters of 
3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyp
henyl)-2-(4- sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium (MTS) 
was then pipetted into each well followed by 
additional incubation at 37 °C for 4 hours. The 
viable cells were immediately determined by 
measuring the absorbance at 490nm using a 96-well 
plate reader. The percentage of cell viability was 
calculated by comparing the absorbance of samples 
without the presence of the micelles complex. 
2.2.7 Evaluation of siRNA cellular uptake 
FAM-labeled siRNA was formulated into the 
complex with PEI-SA micelles to investigate the in 
vitro cellular uptake by Huh-7 cells. Huh-7 cells 
were seeded in 6-well plates with a density of 2x105 
per well for 24 hours at 37oC. PEI-SA was premixed 
with FAM-labeled siRNA for 30 mins at room 
temperature in DMEM and a final siRNA 
concentration of 1μg per well was subsequently 
added, followed by incubation in DMEM 
supplemented with 10% FBS and 1% PSA for 24 
hours. The cellular uptake efficiency was evaluated 
by Becton Dickinson Calibur Flow Cytomtry (NJ, 
USA) in the selected gate region (2x102 
<FL1-H<104) normalized with untreated Huh-7 
cells. The data was analyzed with CellQuest 
Software (Becton-Kickinson).  
2.2.8 Quantification of VEGF suppression  
Suppression of VEGF by the RNAi silencing 
mechanism was validated using PEI-SA as 
functional gene carriers. Huh-7 cells were 
precultured in 24-well plates with a medium 
containing 10% FBS. VEGF targeted siRNA was 
complexed with PEI-SA polymers for 30 mins and 
added into each well accordingly, followed by an 
additional 48 hours of incubation. siRNA complexed 
with PEI or PEI-SA/chloroquine were also used as 
controls for efficacy comparison. The culture 
medium was then collected for VEGF ELISA assay. 
The VEGF level secreted by the cells was evaluated 
using a human VEGF immunoassay kit (R&D 
Systems, Minneapolis, MN) according to the 
manufacturer’s instructions. Statistical analysis was 
carried out by a Student’s t test. Statistical 
significance was assigned for p values <0.05. 
2.2.9 Encapsulation of doxorubicin 
 Doxorubicin (DOX, 10 mg/ml) was dissolved 
in DMSO as stock solution. The DOX-loaded 
PEI-SA micelles were then prepared by the addition 
of dropwise 200 　 g DOX stock solution to PEI-SA 
micelles solution under mild agitation. The solution 
was then dialyzed (MWCO: 12-14 kDa, Spectrum 
Laboratories, CA, USA) against distilled water for 
24 hours with frequent exchange of fresh distilled 
water. The encapsulated content (Cencapsulated) of 
the drug was determined by dissolving the 
DOX-loaded PEI-SA micelles in 90% DMSO and 
measuring the fluorescence emission of DOX using 
a spectrophotometer (Perkin Elmer, MA, USA) at 
　 ex: 485 nm and 　 em: 595 nm.  
2.2.10 Tumor growth inhibition study 
Male C.B17/ICR SCID mice of 5-8 weeks of age 
were purchased from the Animal Center, College of 
Medicine, National Taiwan University. The 
xenograft tumor growth of Huh-7 cancer cells was 
8 
that free siRNA incubated in serum gradually 
degraded over time. Free siRNA without any 
protection was digested to free nucleotides after 6 
hours of incubation in serum. On the contrary, 
siRNA complexed with PEI-SA micelles showed 
stable binding and remained intact throughout the 
entire 48 hours of incubation time. The evidence 
indicates that PEI-SA polymer micelles provide 
physical barriers to protect siRNA against the serum 
environment.   
3.5 Cellular uptake of PEI-SA/siRNA complex 
FAM-labeled negative siRNA was used to study 
Huh-7 celluar uptake of PEI-SA/siRNA complexes, 
and the cells with FAM-siRNA were quantified by 
Flow Cytometry. Fig. 4 shows the cellular uptake 
results of siRNA only for PEI/siRNA and 
PEI-SA/siRNA complex of (Fig. 4a) 1.8k and (Fig. 
4b) 10k PEI content. The siRNA without polymer 
carrier protection showed uptake at a very low 
efficiency with only 4.38% compared with the 
control. PEI complexed with siRNA generally 
improved the polyplex uptake by 19.75% and 
89.88% for 1.8k and 10k PEI/siRNA, respectively.  
The significantly high uptake of 10k PEI complex is 
in agreement with the results of previous research 
and may contribute to the high transfection 
efficiency of higher molecular PEI. In addition, 
polyplex formulated by PEI grafted with SA also 
demonstrated significantly enhanced uptake of 
78.95% for the 1.8k PEI-SA, where 10k PEI-SA 
showed uptake efficiency of 84.33% which is 
similar with the 10k PEI/siRNA uptake efficiency 
(89.88%).   
The quantitative study of Huh-7 cellular uptake 
examined various weight ratios of 1.8k 
PEI-SA/siRNA or 10k PEI-SA/siRNA. The siRNA 
cellular uptake was generally enhanced with 
increased weight ratio of both PEI/siRNA and 
PEI-SA/siRNA, suggesting that uptake efficiency is 
dose dependent. However, a dramatic increase of 
uptake was observed only for the 1.8k 
PEI-SA/siRNA compared to the 1.8k PEI/siRNA 
(Fig. 4c). In contrast, the 10k PEI/siRNA and 10k 
PEI-SA/siRNA complexes only showed marginal 
difference in cellular uptake with various weight 
ratio formulations (Fig. 4d) due to the fact that 
10kPEI already possesses high cellular uptake ability. 
These evidences suggest that polyplex cellular 
uptake is also type dependent, where PEI-SA 
micelles which use low molecular weight PEI can 
provide substantial enhancement for siRNA cellular 
uptake, comparable to uptake levels using high 
molecular weight PEIs as carriers. 
3.6 VEGF sequence-specific gene silencing 
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is often 
over expressed in tumor cells.  Therefore VEGF 
sequence-specific genes can be chosen for silencing 
in potential anti-tumor growth applications. 
Sequence-specific gene silencing ability can be 
quantified by determining the VEGF secreted from 
Huh-7 cells after treating them with siVEGF 
complexed to either 1.8k PEI-SA or 10k PEI-SA, 
and with/without the assistance of CQ. Cells 
receiving no treatment and 
siVEGF-complexed-with-PEI were used as control 
groups for comparison. Fig. 5 demonstrates that 
65% and 25% reduction of VEGF expression were 
observed for siVEGF delivered with 10k PEI-SA 
and 1.8k PEI-SA, respectively, compared with cells 
which received no treatment. In contrast, siVEGF 
delivered by complexing with 10k and 1.8k PEI only 
resulted in 20% and 10% inhibition of VEGF 
expression, respectively. Further, when the 10k 
PEI-SA/siRNA polyplex was co-delivered with CQ 
to promote endosomal release, the VEGF silencing 
efficiency was significantly improved from 65% to 
78%, while no significant difference was observed 
between the 1.8k PEI-SA/CQ and 1.8k PEI-SA.   
3.7 Encapsulation of doxorubicin (DOX) in PEI-SA 
micelles 
Table 2 shows the physical properties of 10k PEI-SA 
before and after encapsulation with doxorubicin. The 
10 
transfection properties [24]. 
Polymeric micelles are self-assembled nanoparticles 
composed of amphiphilic materials with a structure 
which includes a hydrophobic core and hydrophilic 
corona. These nanoparticles range in size from 5 to 
200 nm and have been shown to have high cellular 
uptake of tumor cells due to the enhanced 
permeability and retention (EPR) effect originating 
from the leakiness of tumor vasculatures [5]. This 
enhancement of cellular uptake can result in 
increased drug concentration in the tumor cells and 
improve the pharmacological efficacy [6]. In this 
study, 10k PEI was modified by grafting stearic acid 
with the aim of formulating polymeric 10kPEI-SA 
micelles with an average diameter of 149.6 ± 1.2 nm. 
Furthermore, the 10k PEI-SA demonstrated 
relatively low cytotoxicity for potential in vivo 
delivery application.  
The PEI was grafted with SA and formulated into 
PEI-SA micelles by the oil in water solvent 
evaporation method. The smaller particle size 
resulting from the formation with higher molecular 
weight PEI (10k) may be due to the longer chain 
which permits more SA grafting space. Moreover, 
the self-assembling nature of the hydrophobic SA 
contracts together, hence, reducing the overall size 
diameter of the micelles. The fact that 10kPEI-SA 
polyplex showed a lower percentage of size 
shrinkage compared to the 1.8k PEI-SA polyplex 
suggests the structure tightness of the higher 
molecular weight polymer carriers (data not shown), 
i.e. smaller size, and less rooms to compact. The 
particle size and zeta potential of both PEI-SA 
micelles can remain stable for up to one year under 
storage at 4℃ (data not shown). 
Although 1.8k and 10k PEI-SA micelles have 
similar surface potential, yet 10k PEI-SA 
demonstrated superior binding efficiency with 
siRNA compared to the 1.8k PEI-SA particles. This 
interesting observation can be possibly explained by 
the fact 10k PEI-SA nanoparticles possess half the 
particle size of the 1.8k PEI-SA, thereby doubling 
the surface area under an equivalent volume. As a 
result, 10k PEI-SA particles permit more amine 
groups on the surface, which enhances the binding 
efficiency with siRNA. In fact, the amine content of 
10k PEI-SA reflected by the TNBS analysis was also 
confirmed to be twice the amount of the 1.8k 
PEI-SA particles. Moreover, gel retardation assay 
was also performed to investigate the binding 
efficiency of PEI-SA with nucleotides at weight 
ratios from 0 to 6. PEI-SA/siRNA complex with 
weight ratios above 4.5 and 2.25 for 1.8k and 10k 
PEI-SA, respectively, showed complete binding of 
the siRNA with the PEI-SA polymer and no 
detection of free siRNA in the gel electrophoresis, 
suggesting complete polymer/siRNA complex 
formation. The physical characteristics of nano-sized 
micelles with positive charges provide the 
foundation for potential in vivo gene delivery 
applications.  
Cytotoxicity is another major hurdle for gene 
delivery in clinical applications. Conventional 
transfection agents, such as Lipofectin and 
Oligofectamine, have revealed  downstream 
functional consequences of transfection-induced 
gene expression in human endothelial cells that led 
to the tendency of cells toward early apoptosis [25].  
In this study, the commercial transfection reagent 
Lipofectamine was co-investigated in comparison 
with the SA grafted PEI to measure cytotoxicity.  
The cytotoxcity results of 10k PEI-SA showed 
relatively no cytotoxicity when compared to the 
untreated control within the experimental 
concentration of 10 　 g/ml; while lipofectamine and 
10k PEI were both relatively cytotoxic with low cell 
viability. At the higher experimental concentration of 
20 　 g/ml, 10k PEI-SA showed only marginal 
cytotoxicity compared with the control, yet 
remained significantly less cytotoxic compared to 
the 10k PEI and lipofectamine. The low cytotoxicity 
may result because under the same transfection 
12 
only comparable to PEI treatment. The polyplex 
formulated by 10k PEI-SA/siRNA also provided 
excellent gene silencing efficiency. In addition, the 
combination effect of co-delivering doxorubicin and 
VEGF siRNA by PEI-SA nanoparticles 
demonstrated a promising synergistic effect towards 
anti-tumor growth in the animal model study.  
In summary, the amphiphilic structure of PEI-SA 
micelles can provide advantages for multifunctional 
tasks. The hydrophilic shell modified with cationic 
charges can electrostatically interact with siRNA, 
and the hydrophobic core can serve as a payload for 
hydrophobic drugs, making it truly a promising 
multifunctional vehicle for both genetic and 
chemotherapy applications. For future tissue 
targeting, PEI-SA can be conjugated with specific 
ligands, such as folate, antibodies, or peptides, to 
recognize specific receptors on the cell surface and 
elevate therapeutic efficacy. 
 
5、Reference 
[1] Whitehead KA, Langer R, Anderson DG. Nature 
Reviews Drug Discovery. 2009;8:129-38. 
[2] Kwon HS, Shin HC, Kim JS. Nucleic Acids 
Research. 2005;33. 
[3] Lu PY, Xie FY, Woodle MC. Trends in 
Molecular Medicine. 2005;11:104-13. 
[4] Alexis F, Pridgen E, Molnar LK, Farokhzad OC.. 
2008;5:505-15. 
[5] Maeda H, Greish K, Fang J.: Polymers as Drugs, 
Conjugates and Gene Delivery Systems. 
2006;193:103-21. 
[6] Yoo HS, Park TG. Journal of Controlled Release. 
2004;96:273-83. 
[7] Ko YT, Kale A, Hartner WC, 
Papahadjopoulos-Sternberg B, Torchilin VP. Journal 
of Controlled Release. 2009;133:132-8. 
[8] Kim SH, Jeong JH, Kim TI, Kim SW, Bull DA. 
Molecular Pharmaceutics. 2009;6:718-26. 
[9] Guo XD, Tandiono F, Wiradharma N, Khor D, 
Tan CG, Khan M, et al. Biomaterials. 
2008;29:4838-46. 
[10] Kim SH, Jeong JH, Lee SH, Kim SW, Park TG.. 
Journal of Controlled Release. 2008;129:107-16. 
[11] Qiu LY, Bae YH. Biomaterials. 
2007;28:4132-42. 
[12] Wang Y, Gao SJ, Ye WH, Yoon HS, Yang YY. 
Nature Materials. 2006;5:791-6. 
[13] Ferrari S, Moro E, Pettenazzo A, Behr JP, 
Zacchello F, Scarpa M. Gene Therapy. 
1997;4:1100-6. 
[14] Boussif O, Lezoualch F, Zanta MA, Mergny 
MD, Scherman D, Demeneix B, et al. PNAS. 
1995;92:7297-301. 
[15] Akinc A, Thomas M, Klibanov AM, Langer R. J 
Gene Med. 2005;7:657-63. 
[16] Kuo WT, Huang HY, Huang YY. Journal of 
Nanoscience and Nanotechnology. 2010. 
 
 
 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/08
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 多功能奈米微粒作為藥物與基因傳輸載體之研究
計畫主持人: 黃義侑
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-002-024-MY2 學門領域: 生醫材料
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
