一、 中文摘要及關鍵詞 
 
  最近射頻辨識(RFID)系統由於其廣泛的應用潛力受到了許多注意。由於其標籤成本
低、體積小、而且感測距離長，超高頻被動式射頻辨識系統特別受到 EPCglobal組織的提
倡。特別值得注意的是 2005 年 EPCglobal 發佈了「Gen2」超高頻被動式射頻辨識系統規
格，其規格也於 2006 年被 ISO所採納。 
  由於 Gen2標籤從 Gen2射頻辨識讀取器發射的連續波取得它的電源，並以此連續波作
為它的調變反向散射信號的載波，因此其可讀取範圍受到高傳播路徑損失的限制。而除自
由空間衰減之外，多重路徑衰落也經常導致讀取問題。經鏈接預算分析證明，標籤接收的
電力是決定讀取距離的因素。而因為被動式標籤沒有外部電源不能運作，所以標籤電源問
題是被動式射頻辨識系統中一個不可避免的問題。此外，標籤衝突問題是另一個影響標籤
識別的正確性及效率的因素。再者，在 Gen2 標準之「密集讀取器模式」中存在的讀取器
衝突問題，也可能嚴重地降低系統效能。目前已有一些研究使用不同的方法來解決這些問
題，然而尚未有研究將這些問題做一個整體的考量。 
在本連續性計劃中，我們提出一個高性能被動式射頻辨識系統。此系統能有效地解決
標籤電源問題、標籤衝突問題以及讀取器衝突問題。我們計畫使用差異性結合技術改善標
籤電源問題、分碼多重擷取技術搭配空間區分多重擷取技術避免標籤衝突問題、及結合適
應性波束合成與跨階層技術防止讀取器衝突問題。除理論分析之外，我們使用軟體定義無
線電架構，實現一個讀取器，以實際驗證計劃所提出的方法。本報告為前二年計畫累積之
成果報告。 
 
關鍵詞：射頻辨識、衝突防止、軟體定義無線電、分碼多重擷取、空間區分多重擷取、差異性
結合、跨階層技術 
三、 計畫緣由與目的： 
 
  射頻辨識（RFID），隨著技術進步及廣泛的應用，近年來受到很多的矚目，並已進行
實際運用。如同許多其他先進通訊技術，射頻辨識技術亦歷經長期研究，而於近年蓬勃發
展。射頻辨識系統依其操作頻段，可略區分為以下不同類別並依其特性各有不同應用；低
頻射頻辨識系統(LF RFID)（125 KHz到 134.2 KHz)， 高頻射頻辨識系統(HF RFID) (13.56 
MHz)， 超高頻射頻辨識系統(UHF RFID) (860 MHz到 960 MHz)，及微波 RFID (2.45 GHz)
等。 
 射頻辨識系統通常由標籤（tag or transponder）及讀取器（reader or interrogator）
所組成。每個標籤至少具有一顆晶片及天線，其功能為儲存資料、接收讀取器指令（reader 
command）及發射回應訊號。而依照標籤之電源供應，又可區分為主動式標籤（active 
tag）、半主動式標籤（semi-active tag）、被動式標籤（passive tag）等類別。其中被
動式標籤因不需電池，所以有體積較小、價格便宜、不需維護、及使用壽命較長等優點，
因此特別受到重視。目前高頻被動射頻辨識標籤(HF passive RFID tag)已被廣泛使用於
悠遊卡、晶片信用卡等。而超高頻被動射頻辨識標籤(UHF passive RFID tag)，因為讀取
距離較高頻被動射頻辨識標籤遠，因此適用於供應鍊（supply chain）管理、車輛管制、
及室內定位等應用，其他可能應用亦隨著該技術發展而日新月異。目前高頻被動射頻辨識
標籤發展及應用已臻成熟；然而超高頻被動射頻辨識系統，因全球化標準之訂定[1, 2]
較晚，且其多樣性功能及應用有可能於技術成熟後取代低頻被動射頻辨識系統，而吸引了
許多研究者的投入。 
  因超高頻被動射頻辨識標籤（以下簡稱標籤）不具電池，必須仰賴其天線之感應
電流以提供其晶片操作電力，因此超高頻被動射頻辨識系統之讀取器（以下簡稱讀取
器），除負責發射讀取器指令及接收標籤之回應外，同時必須發射連續波以提供標籤之
操作電力。 
  標籤除汲取讀取器所發射之連續波作為電源之外，並利用它作為其回應之反向散
射信號（backscattered signal）載波。囿於電力限制，目前標籤之調變信號多使用振幅
位移鍵(Amplitude Shift Keying, ASK)調變、二位元相位位移鍵(Binary Phase Shift 
Keying, BPSK)調變等調變訊號[3, 4]。同時因標籤無法進行載波感測多重擷取（Carrier 
Sense Multiple Access, CSMA），因此目前被動式標籤多使用較簡易之防衝突演算法
（Anti-collision Algorithm），如二元樹演算法（Binary Tree Algorithm）及時槽阿羅哈
（Slotted ALOHA，S-ALOHA）演算法等[5]。為提升標籤之辨識率，於[1]中，FM0 碼
及 Miller 碼被使用來降低標籤反向散射信號之接收位元錯誤率（BER）[3, 6]。目前
針對標籤方面已有許多天線設計及降低晶片耗電量之相關研究[7, 10-19]。然而，囿
於有限、不連續且不穩定之電源限制，被動式標籤無法進行複雜運算，因此對於通訊
品質之改進相當有限。反觀讀取器則無此方面問題，因此，許多複雜先進之通訊技術
較易由讀取器端實現，並藉此改善射頻辨識系統之通訊品質。本計劃亦希望能藉由研
製高性能讀取器，來解決目前超高頻被動式射頻辨識系統所遭遇之問題。 
  經由系統效能評估之相關文獻[7-10]得知，目前射頻辨識系統所遭遇主要問題可
分為以下數項：標籤電源問題（或讀取距離問題）、標籤衝突（tag collision）問題、及
讀取器衝突（reader collision）問題等。因為被動式標籤本身並無電池，必須仰賴讀取
器提供其電源，使得標籤電源問題成為系統能否運作之主要關鍵[8, 11]。在[10]中指
出，讀取器與標籤通訊的限制在於標籤之晶片靈敏度（chip sensitivity），亦即所需最小
然而於密集讀取器模式中，仍存在不同讀取器於相同覆蓋範圍，同時傳送讀取器指令，
造成標籤無法識別讀取器指令之讀取器干擾問題；或當讀取器跳頻（frequency hopping）
落入同頻道所造成的同通道干擾（Co-Channel Interference, CCI）。 
  綜合以上所述，可以得知標籤電源問題、標籤衝突問題、及讀取器衝突問題仍為
目前射頻辨識系統研究之主要方向。鑒於標籤之低功能性（low functionality），解決這
些問題的方式，必須考慮從讀取器端著手。其中[9] 提出以多支發射天線產生之空間
差異性，來解決多重路徑干擾所造成的標籤電源問題。在[20]中則提出利用智慧型天
線（包括多重輸入多重輸出及適應性波束合成）來解決標籤衝突問題，但是其分析及
模擬過於簡化。除此之外，在提升標籤讀取效能方面，於[18, 19]提出結合分碼多重
擷取技術的方法，應可大幅提升讀取效率，但於文獻中並未考慮標籤之耗電限制問題。
於讀取器衝突問題方面，大多著重於降低讀取器之間的相互干擾，及減少讀取器之發
射功率。雖然目前尚未有文獻使用智慧型天線來解決讀取器衝突問題，但智慧型天線
於降低無線通訊干擾，及有效減少發射功率的成效已被証實。因此，智慧型天線之適
應性波束合成，及其特有的空間區分多重擷取（space division multiple access, SDMA）
技術，相信亦可有助於解決讀取器衝突問題及標籤衝突問題。因此，本計劃希望研製
具智慧型天線之高效能讀取器，搭配低複雜度低耗電性之分碼多重擷取射頻辨識標籤
（CDMA-RFID tag）設計，以提升超高頻被動式射頻辨識系統效能。並且因為超高頻被
動式射頻辨識系統為一新興技術，目前國內尚缺乏該項技術人才及其中關鍵技術；本
計劃也提出使用軟體無線電技術實現智慧型天線讀取器的目標，以實際了解開發讀取
器之關鍵問題，並可用以驗證研究所提出之創新通訊方法與協定。 
  本計劃原為三年期之研究計畫，計畫的目標為建立一個高效能的超高頻被動式射
頻辨識系統。我們已於前二年開發完整系統模擬，並探究使用 CDMA 技術來解決標籤
衝突問題之可能性。同時，我們並使用軟體無線電技術實現一個符合實驗需求之讀取
器。此外，利用[15]之多載波技術，我們並開發出一種新型之電池輔助標籤。 
 
四、 研究方法： 
 
  由文獻研究可以得知，目前超高頻被動式射頻辨識系統所遭遇之問題主要為：標籤電
源問題、標籤衝突問題、及讀取器衝突問題。由於被動式射頻辨識標籤無法進行複雜運算，
所以我們嘗詴設計高效能讀取器，以解決以上三項問題。然而，要能確切實際的了解這三
項問題，除了進行實地實驗之外，建立一個完整的系統模擬，更是一個有效的驗證方法。
此一完整系統模擬，更可對本計劃之後續研究，進行可靠而有效的評估。 
  在此系統模擬中，如圖 1所示，我們將以讀取器、通道模擬、及標籤模擬等三部分，
分別進行。 
讀取機(Reader) 標籤(Tag)
標籤
RF部分
標籤
DSP部分
讀取機
TX部分
讀取機
RX部分
 
圖 2 Gen2 RFID 系統模擬 
 
 
圖 3 ADS Gen2 RFID 系統模擬結果 
 
2. 使用 CDMA 技術解決標籤衝突問題：鑑於 Gen2 標籤之鏈結時程參數(link timing 
parameter) 1T 存在相當的容忍值，因而可能導致標籤至讀取器(T-R)為非同步通訊。
經實驗量測驗證亦證實存在此現象[21]。因此我們必須將 T-R 通訊視為非同步通
訊；此外因標籤之回應訊號強弱受距離、天線方向影響而產生甚大差異，故遠近
效應(near-far effect)亦是不可忽視之因素。有鑑於此，我們提出應用霍夫曼序列
(Huffman sequence)當作標籤回應之展頻碼，以同時克服非同步通訊及遠近效應之
因素。該研究成果已發表於 IOT2008 研討會。該研討會錄取率為 25%，筆者論文
有幸列於兩篇錄取之 RFID技術論文之一。該論文並已收錄於 Springer LNCS 論文
集。 
 
3. 使用軟體無線電技術實現符合實驗需求之讀取器：目前我們使用 GNU radio 之
USRP 平台及 Lyrtech 之 SFFSDR 平台進行 Gen2 RFID 讀取器開發，並已獲得相當
進展。其中 SFFSDR 平台已可完成完整 Gen2 通訊，如圖 4所示。 
0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 0.0 3.0 
0.05 
0.10 
0.15 
0.00 
0.20 
time, msec 
mag(mv) 
Tag backscatter 
Query 
   
 本計畫已完成了原訂之目標，並分別於理論突破及具體實現兩方面獲得如預期之成
果。參與之學生除了發表論文之外，也藉由實際之讀取器開發對 RFID系統獲得深刻了解。
本計畫除所提及論文發表之外，並據研究成果進行五項國內外專利申請。相信藉由本計畫
之研究可對國內之 RFID 相關研究及產業能有所貢獻，也對後續之延伸研究奠定了良好的
基礎。 
 
七、 參考文獻： 
 
[1] "Class 1 Generation 2 UHF Air Interface Protocol Standard Version 1.1.0," EPCglobal, 
2007. 
[2] "18000-6 Part 6 – Parameters for Air Interface Communications at 860 to 930 MHz," 
International Organization for Standardization, 2004. 
[3] Y. Han, Q. Li, and H. Min, "System Modeling and Simulation of RFID," 2004. 
[4] G. De Vita and G. Iannaccone, "Design criteria for the RF section of UHF and microwave 
passive RFID transponders," Microwave Theory and Techniques, IEEE Transactions on, 
vol. 53, pp. 2978-2990, 2005. 
[5] D. Shih, P. Sun, D. Yen, and S. Huang, "Taxonomy and survey of RFID anti-collision 
protocols," Computer communications, vol. 29, pp. 2150-2166, 2006. 
[6] M. Simon and D. Divsalar, "Some interesting observations for certain line codes with 
application to RFID," Communications, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 54, pp. 583-586, 
2006. 
[7] O. Technologies, "The RFID Gen 2 Tag Benchmark," ODIN Technologies Laboratories 
2006. 
[8] N. Adair, "Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) Power Budgets for Packaging 
Applications," Available: www.iopp.org/pages/index.cfm?pageid=1154, 11-30-05. 
[9] J. Mitsugi, "UHF Band RFID Readability and Fading Measurements in Practical 
Propagation Environment," Available: 
http://www.autoidlabs.org/uploads/media/AUTOIDLABS-WP-HARDWARE-015.pdf, 
2005. 
[10] P. V. Nikitin and K. V. S. Rao, "Performance limitations of passive UHF RFID systems," 
in Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium 2006, IEEE, 2006, pp. 
1011-1014. 
[11] "Monza: Gen 2 tag chip," Available: http://www.impinj.com, 2006. 
[12] "配電設備利用射頻辨識(RFID)技術進行資料傳輸之研究結案報告," 台灣電力股份
有限公司 2006 年 11月. 
[13] "Speedway: Gen 2 UHF Reader," Available: http://www.impinj.com, 2006. 
[14] H.-C. Liu, Y.-T. Chen, and W.-S. Tzeng, "A Multi-Carrier UHF Passive RFID System " in 
2007 International Symposium on Applications and the Internet - Workshop on Networked 
RFID (SAINT 2007), Hiroshima, Japan, Jan. 2007. 
[15] H.-C. Liu, Y.-F. Chen, and Y.-T. Chen, "A Frequency Diverse Gen2 RFID System with 
Isolated Continuous Wave Emitters," JOURNAL OF NETWORKS, vol. 2, pp. 54-60, Sept. 
 附件一
LIU et al.: NOVEL BATTERY-ASSISTED CLASS-1 GENERATION-2 RFID TAG DESIGN 1389
Fig. 1. Architecture of a typical C1G2 tag.
In this study, we propose an enhanced passive tag (EPT) by
using a battery-assisted circuit (BAC), which provides the tag IC
a portion of operating power to extend the forward-link-limited
range of a C1G2 tag. Since an EPT requires less power from an
incident radio wave, the read range of the EPT is much longer
than that of a regular C1G2 tag with the same reader transmis-
sion power. An EPT uses a commercial C1G2 IC and is fully
compatible with the Class-1 Generation-2 standard [2]–[4]. In
addition, an EPT can function as a regular C1G2 tag without a
battery as well. Consequently, the life span of an EPT can be as
long as a regular passive RFID tag.
This paper is organized as follows. Section II introduces the
design principles of an EPT. Section III presents experimental
results of a prototype EPT. Section IV provides the conclusions
of this study.
II. DESIGN PRINCIPLES OF AN EPT
As depicted in Fig. 1, a typical C1G2 RFID IC comprises
five basic elements: a power harvester, a demodulator, a mod-
ulator, a logical controller, and an EEPROM. The power har-
vester extracts the power from an incident radio wave and con-
verts the RF power into dc power to supply the power demand
of the tag IC; the demodulator is usually an envelope detector,
which is responsible to demodulate received reader commands
from a reader; oppositely, the modulator is responsible to re-
turn the tag response to the reader by backscattering its MBS.
The logical controller is the core of the tag IC, which decodes
a reader command and decides the corresponding response ac-
cording to the Generation-2 air interface protocol [2]–[4]. The
tag then backscatters its MBS using the unmodulated contin-
uous wave (CW) from the reader as its carrier. The EEPROM is
the memory where the tag ID and other information are stored
in.
In order to function normally, a C1G2 tag relies on a sufficient
and stable power supply from the power harvester circuitry. Al-
though the power harvester circuitry is designed to endure a
temporary loss of RF signals, it is unable to resist a slow deep
multipath fading. To alleviate this problem, we have proposed
a system that utilizes multiple unmodulated CWs with different
frequencies to illuminate a passive tag simultaneously, as shown
in Fig. 2 [10], [11]. In [11], besides a reader, isolated continuous
wave emitters (CWEs) are deployed close to tags so that the tags
can obtain the power of the unmodulated CW emitted from their
Fig. 2. Passive UHF RFID system comprises a reader and CWEs. The passive
tags (shown as small squares) obtain their power from the reader and CWE
simultaneously.
Fig. 3. Architecture of an EPT.
proximate CWEs. Hence, the tags can reduce their dependence
of the power from the reader; it is noteworthy that the frequency
of the unmodulated CW from a CWE needs to be apart from the
frequency of reader signals to prevent reader command distor-
tion [11]. Although the system is fully compatible with C1G2
tags, it could be spectrum inefficient because a CWE uses an
additional frequency besides the reader signal.
The EPT design is based on the idea of simultaneously pro-
viding multiple unmodulated CWs to a tag from different fre-
quencies. Unlike the RFID system with isolated CWEs in [11],
an EPT integrates with a CWE. In an EPT, the CWE is replaced
with a BAC that generates a fixed frequency unmodulated CW.
The diagram of the EPT is illustrated in Fig. 3. The BAC com-
prises three parts: an oscillator that generates a single tone un-
modulated CW, a battery as the power source of the oscillator,
and a transition connecting outputs of the BAC to the RF inputs
of the tag IC. The transition produces a phase reverse signal at
outputs (depicted as C1 and C2 in Fig. 3) of the BAC. Compared
with a regular C1G2 tag, the EPT requires less reader power be-
cause of the power from the BAC. Therefore, the read range of
the EPT can be longer than a regular C1G2 tag. On the other
hand, unlike a commercial semipassive tag that requires a local
battery to work, an EPT does not totally depend on the power
from its BAC. Consequently, an EPT can function as a regular
C1G2 tag without a battery if it can extract sufficient power from
the reader signal.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Taiwan Univ of Science and Technology. Downloaded on October 25, 2009 at 21:59 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
LIU et al.: NOVEL BATTERY-ASSISTED CLASS-1 GENERATION-2 RFID TAG DESIGN 1391
Let the average power that the tag IC actual harvests from the
reader in the period and the period be and , re-
spectively. The average harvested power from the reader
can be expressed as
(1)
Let , (1) can be rewritten as
(2)
In order to avoid an EPT from a power outage, (3) must be
satisfied as follows:
(3)
where denotes the minimum power requirement of the tag
IC.
In [2], an activated passive tag listens to a received reader
command, and then returns its response accordingly. Therefore,
it is very important that the tag can demodulate and decode
a reader command correctly. In general, a passive tag uses a
simple envelope detector circuit to demodulate an ASK modu-
lated reader command [11].
Assuming that the intermodulation due to the unmodulated
CW from its BAC is negligible, the amplitude of the RF enve-
lope received by the EPT IC is proportional to the square root
of the received RF power. Thus, for an OOK modulated reader
command, the minimum amplitude of the RF envelope re-
ceived by an EPT IC is proportional to the square root of
(since only the unmodulated CW from its BAC presents in the
off period of a reader command). Without a loss of generality,
we can express as
(4)
where the constant may vary with different tag designs. Sim-
ilarly, the maximum amplitude of the RF envelope received
by an EPT IC is approximately equal to
(5)
where is the total time of the on periods in . The ratio
is introduced because the reader only sends signal
during on periods. Note that we assume the constant in (5)
is nearly frequency independent for the frequencies of an un-
modulated CW from the BAC and the reader signal.
From (4) and (5), the modulation depth of the reader com-
mand received by the tag IC can, hence, be written as
(6)
where . From (6), the value of can be further
derived as
(7)
Note that, when increases, decreases accordingly. Let
, the minimum value of in (6), denote the minimum
modulation depth of a reader command that can be correctly
demodulate by the tag IC. The range of can be obtained as
(8)
It is also noteworthy that the ratio may vary with different
reader commands. In order to satisfy the modulation depth re-
quirement of each reader command, without changing the value
of , the minimum value of ratio in each reader command
must be used.
From (3) and (8), we can further specify the range of as
(9)
As in the proof shown in the Appendix, the optimum that
results in the longest read range of the EPT is
(10)
where and
. It is note-
worthy that is a ratio that indicates the distribution of reader
transmission power. Given a fixed reader transmission power,
to lower the value of is to lower the reader transmission
power during the period , where only an unmodulated CW
is sent by the reader. In other words, by reducing the value
of , more power is transmitted in a reader command, which
can alleviate the constraint of modulation depth of a received
reader command that limits the tag read range, as stated in the
Appendix.
By using optimum , the maximum read range of the EPT
can be obtained as
(11)
Equation (11) represents that increases as decreases.
Considering the path loss only, the maximum read range of a
C1G2 tag in the forward link can be written as
. Comparing the two maximum read ranges,
we can express the ratio of read range extension as
(12)
Based on our measurement results of Texas Instrument (TI)
Incorporated C1G2 tags, we have an approximation of
. Considering a regular Query command and 40-kHz FM0
encoding, we have ; Using and indicated in
Fig. 4, an approximate ratio is obtained. By substi-
tuting these parameters into (12), the maximum ratio of read
range extension is about 2.65 for . However, is
unrealistic because a reader needs to send an unmodulated CW
as the carrier of the tag MBS. Similarly, is also imprac-
tical since a reader has to send reader commands as well. Fig. 6
shows the optimum BAC power derived from (12) with various
values of and . Likewise, the comparison of maximum
EPT read-range extension with various and is illus-
trated in Fig. 7.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Taiwan Univ of Science and Technology. Downloaded on October 25, 2009 at 21:59 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
LIU et al.: NOVEL BATTERY-ASSISTED CLASS-1 GENERATION-2 RFID TAG DESIGN 1393
Fig. 10. Return loss of EPT.
Fig. 11.  -parameters of the transition used in a prototype EPT.
Fig. 12. Reader power leakage into the transition.
only a small portion of the reader signal flows into the BAC.
Thus, the transition works as a power-dependent filter that can
reduce the power leakage when the tag is activated.
Considering the intentional interference cause by the BAC,
the radiation power at various directions of the EPT main beam
are measured with an 800-MHz–11.94-dBm input power (the
Fig. 13. Radiation power at various directions of the EPT main beam are mea-
sured with an 800-MHz–11.94-dBm input power. The radiation powers in three
IC statuses are slightly different.
Fig. 14. Antenna power pattern comparison of a prototype EPT and a regular
tag.
largest power we used in this study) is shown in Fig. 13, which
indicates the actual radiation powers are in the order of W. If
an antenna with a lower gain in the BAC operating frequency
and high gain in the RFID operating band is used, the inten-
tional radiation power can be further reduced without the tag
performance degradation.
Due to the attached BAC, the EPT antenna power pattern
slightly changes, as shown in Fig. 14. Although the variation
of antenna gains could affect the read range comparison of a
zero-powered EPT and a regular C1G2 tag, it does not affect
the read range comparison of a powerless EPT and a powered
EPT because the same EPT is used.
Since the link budget in the forward link determines the read
range of a present C1G2 tag, we measure the maximum dis-
tance where the tag can correctly respond to a reader command
in our experiments. The reverse link signal strength measure-
ment is, hence, not in the scope of this study. A schematic of
our experiment setup is illustrated in Fig. 15. The transmitter in
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Taiwan Univ of Science and Technology. Downloaded on October 25, 2009 at 21:59 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
LIU et al.: NOVEL BATTERY-ASSISTED CLASS-1 GENERATION-2 RFID TAG DESIGN 1395
Fig. 19. Top window shows modified Query commands     

 and the
corresponding EPT responses. The middle window illustrates the MBS clearly.
The decoded MBS (shadowed) comprising the preamble and the RN16 are de-
picted in the bottom window.
generated by the VCO. The actual transferred power into the tag
IC could be lower.
In Fig. 18, an 800-MHz–10.9-dBm unmodulated CW
from the BAC is used, and modified Query commands with
are sent from the transmitter. Similarly, in Fig. 19,
an 800-MHz–10.45-dBm unmodulated CW from the BAC is
used, and modified Query commands with are sent
from the transmitter. As shown in both snapshots, an EPT can
successfully decode the reader commands and reply its MBS
accordingly.
Comparing Figs. 17–19, the differences of Query commands
with different values can be told easily. As shown in these
figures, the lower the value of , the stronger the power of a
Query command.
The maximum read range comparison of an EPT and a regular
C1G2 tag is presented in Fig. 20. For a regular reader command
, the EPT dBm demonstrates a
remarkable read range extension compared with a regular C1G2
tag. The maximum read ranges of the EPT with ,
dBm and , dBm are even longer.
It is noteworthy that a powerless EPT can still function as a
regular C1G2 tag, as depicted in Fig. 20 with ,
. The read range of the EPT without input power is almost
the same as a regular C1G2 tag. However, due to the different
antenna gains, it is difficult to compare the performance of a
C1G2 tag and an EPT in terms of read range.
B. Experiment Results at the Hallway
Similar to the chamber experiments, the transmitter itera-
tively sends Query commands to the tag using 1-W EIRP. Since
there are copious propagation paths at the concrete hallway,
the severe multipath fading results in unstable readability
and a shorter read range of a C1G2 tag. A photograph of our
measurement is shown in Fig. 21. Likewise, the measurements
within 100 cm are skipped because there is no access problem.
The tags are measured every 5 cm thereafter. A read range
comparison result of an experiment is shown in Fig. 22.
As shown in Fig. 22, the tested regular C1G2 tag can be
read stably within 255 cm. Due to the multipath fading, the
C1G2 tag can be read in some regions after 290 cm. The C1G2
Fig. 20. Read range comparison inside the NTUST microwave anechoic
chamber, where the first bar denotes the read range of a regular C1G2 tag, and
the second bar (      ) denotes the read range of a powerless EPT.
Fig. 21. Photograph of the experiment at a hallway of the International
Building, NTUST.
tag cannot be read after 400 cm due to its power requirement
constraint. Under the same condition, the tested EPT with
dBm can be read stably within 435 cm with two
short gaps, where the multipath fading are severe as indicated
in the bottom widow of Fig. 22. The EPT cannot be read after
460 cm using a regular Query command due to
the reader command modulation depth constraint. Utilizing
modified Query commands ( or ), the longest
read range of the EPT can be extended to 650 cm or so, despite
that there is a 1-m gap due to a deep multipath fading. It is also
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Taiwan Univ of Science and Technology. Downloaded on October 25, 2009 at 21:59 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
LIU et al.: NOVEL BATTERY-ASSISTED CLASS-1 GENERATION-2 RFID TAG DESIGN 1397
By substituting (A7) into either (A4) or (A5), the maximum
read range of the EPT can be derived as
(A8)
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors would like to thank Prof. C. Yang and
Prof. T. Ma, both with National Taiwan University of Science
and Technology, Taipei, Taiwan, for their valuable comments
on this work. The authors also appreciate the valuable help
from P.-C. Chen, D.-C. Hsin, and W.-C. Lin, all with National
Taiwan University of Science and Technology, for their assis-
tance with measurements and simulations.
REFERENCES
[1] D. M. Dobkin, “Radio basics for UHF RFID,” in The RF in RFID:
Passive UHR RFID in Practice, 1st ed. Burkington, MA: Newnes,
2007, ch. 3, pp. 51–101.
[2] EPC Radio-Frequency Identity Protocols Class-1 Generation-2 UHF
RFID Protocol for Communications at 860 MHz–960 MHz for Com-
munications Version 1.09, Electronic Product Code (EPC) Standard,
2005.
[3] Radio-Frequency Identification for Item Management—Part 6C: Pa-
rameters for Air Interface Communications at 860 MHz to 960 MHz,
ISO/IEC_CD 18000-6C Standard, 2005.
[4] EPC Radio-Frequency Identity Protocols Class-1 Generation-2 UHF
RFID Protocol for Communications at 860 MHz–960 MHz for Com-
munications Version 1.1.0, Electronic Product Code (EPC) Standard,
2006.
[5] T. S. Rappaport, Wireless Communications: Principles and Practice,
1st ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1996, pp. 123–131.
[6] L. W. Mayer, M. Wrulich, and S. Caban, “Measurements and channel
modeling for short range indoor UHF application,” in Proc. Eur. An-
tennas . Conf., Nice, France, Nov. 2006, [CD ROM].
[7] D. Kim, M. A. Ingram, and W. W. Smith, Jr., “Measurements of small-
scale fading and path loss for long range RF tags,” IEEE Trans. An-
tennas Propag., vol. 51, no. 8, pp. 1740–1749, Aug. 2003.
[8] P. V. Nikitin and K. V. S. Rao, “Performance limitations of pas-
sive UHF RFID systems,” in IEEE AP-S Int. Symp., Jul. 2006, pp.
1011–1014.
[9] U. Karthaus and M. Fischer, “Fully integrated passive UHF RFID
transponder IC with 16.7- W minimum RF input power,” IEEE J.
Solid-State Circuits, vol. 38, no. 10, pp. 1602–1608, Oct. 2003.
[10] H.-C. Liu, Y.-T. Chen, and W.-S. Tzeng, “A multi-carrier UHF passive
RFID system,” in Proc. Int. Appl. and Internet Workshops Symp./Net-
worked RFID Workshop, Hiroshima, Japan, Jan. 2007, [CD ROM].
[11] H.-C. Liu, Y.-F. Chen, and Y.-T. Chen, “A frequency diverse Gen2
RFID system with isolated continuous wave emitters,” J. Networks, vol.
2, no. 5, pp. 54–60, Sep. 2007.
[12] “Impinj Monza 1a datasheet,” Impinj, Seattle, WA, 2005. [Online].
Available: http://www.impinj.com/
Hsin-Chin Liu (S’01–M’02) was born in Hualien,
Taiwan, in 1967. He received the B.S. degree in
communication engineering from National Chiao
Tung University, Taiwan, in 1989, and the M.S.
and Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from
Pennsylvania State University, University Park, 1993
and 2003 respectively.
From 1993 to 1994, he was a Software Engineer
with Alcatel, Taiwan. From 1994 to 1996, he was
a Hardware Engineer with Siemens, Taiwan. From
1996 to 1998, he was a Member of Research Staff
with the Computer Center, National Dong Hwa University, Taiwan. In 2003, he
joined the Department of Electrical Engineering, National University of Kaoh-
siung, Taiwan, as an Assistant Professor. Since 2004, he has been an Assistant
Professor with the Department of Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan Uni-
versity of Science and Technology, Taipei, Taiwan. His current research inter-
ests include wireless communications, smart antenna technologies, and RFID
systems.
Meng-Chang Hua was born in Changhua, Taiwan,
in 1986. He received the B.S. degrees in electrical
engineering from the National Taiwan University of
Science Technology, Taipei, Taiwan, in 2006, and is
currently working toward the Ph.D. degree in elec-
trical engineering at the National Taiwan University
of Science Technology.
His research interests include wireless communi-
cations, array signal processing, smart antennas, and
RFID systems.
Chih-Guo Peng was born in Kaohsiung, Taiwan, in
1982. He received the M.S. degrees in electrical engi-
neering from the National Taiwan University of Sci-
ence Technology, Taipei, Taiwan, in 2008.
From 2006 to 2008, he was a Research Assistant
with the Communication Research Laboratory,
National Taiwan University of Science Technology,
where he participated in several cooperative projects.
In 2008, he joined one of the focus centers of the
Industrial Technology Research Institute, Hsinchu,
Taiwan, which develops technologies for image
processing and RFID systems.
Jheng-Peng Ciou was born in Taoyuan, Taiwan, in
1984. He received the M.S. degrees in electrical engi-
neering from the National Taiwan University of Sci-
ence Technology, Taipei, Taiwan, in 2009.
From 2006 to 2008, he was a Research Assistant
with the Communication Research Laboraotry, Na-
tional Taiwan University of Science Technology. His
research areas are RFID systems and anticollision
methods.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Taiwan Univ of Science and Technology. Downloaded on October 25, 2009 at 21:59 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
中   華   民   國     年     月      日 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
■ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期： 年 月 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：高效能被動式超高頻無線射頻辨識系統設計與研究（II） 
計畫主持人：劉馨勤         
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-011 -002 -             
學門領域：電信、通訊 
技術/創作名稱 多載波被動式超高頻無線辨識系統讀取距離延伸方法 
發明人/創作人 劉馨勤、彭智國 
技術說明 
中文： 
專利申請中 
（100~500字） 
英文： 
專利申請中 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
陸上運輸業 、水上運輸業、航空運輸業、倉儲業、電信業 
技術特點 
於被動式標籤晶片內部之解調器前端，加入一個濾波器，以延伸其
讀取距離 
推廣及運用的價值 
專利申請中 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 
附件二 
2 
 
二、與會心得 
 
  筆者有幸擔任此次會議唯一與 RFID 相關之 session chair，並藉此與各作者有所交
流。但筆者於此會議中並未見到發展 RFID 實體層技術之專家，可見此領域之研究尚待
開發。同時筆者見到會場眾多來自中國之作者，可以感受中國已於通訊領域技術研究進
入與先進國家競爭之列，令人惕勵，需加緊努力研究才能立足於同領域眾多的研究者中。 
 
三、攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. The Conference Brochure 
2. 會議的論文光碟 一片 
 
四、其他 
  非常感謝國科會能夠補助筆者參加此次的國際會議，藉此向國外學者專家學習觀摩
並分享研究成果交換意見，這對筆者的研究有莫大的幫助◦ 
 
 
大會會場 
