 
Self-compacting concrete (SCC), originally developed in Japan (5) is a flowing 
concrete useful for placing particularly in congested areas and is considered a high 
performance concrete (HPC). In the past two decades, it has been used worldwide in 
many major infrastructures and residential buildings for its superior workability and 
durability (6, 7).  
 
Fire resistant design of reinforced concrete structures is frequently carried out by the 
prescriptive method. The requirements of the minimum cover depth and/or the 
minimum size of cross section are generally specified explicitly according to the fire 
endurance ratings needed for the specific structural components. This is unsatisfactory 
for frame structures as the data is produced from furnace tests on simply supported 
components, which in well designed buildings do not exist.  For this reason a fire 
design approach initially called the rational fire design was adopted in the mid-70’s (8, 
9).  This has since been further developed analytically using computer programs to 
include the current approximate material behavior of concrete at elevated temperature. 
This is termed performance based design (PBD) and is more appropriate for structural 
frames.  The approach is attracting more attention in the past decade and has been 
codified (10, 11). To meet the needs of PBD more realistic experimental work on 
structural components followed by analyses of the results would be necessary to 
verify the required performance of the structures subjected to the specified fire 
scenario (12-16). The test data especially those from large scale specimens are still 
needed to ensure the validity of the code equations and software for PBD (16-23).  
 
Recently, Xiao et al. (23) conducted tests on the fire response of HPC portal frames 
and their post-fire seismic performance. They tested four 1:2 scale specimens with 
two equal point loads on the beam at third points and the fire load simultaneously 
applied at the middle portion of the beam for two hours. The axial deformation of the 
heated member developed more rapidly than the bending response. Also, the increase 
of concrete strength benefited the frame ductility under a fire condition. In addition, 
the combined actions of mechanical load and fire weakened the beam-column joint 
during a compartment fire. This is useful additional data, however the authors 
observed high temperatures at the top of the beam after 2 hours, which would have 
been lower for a full scale member.  Ellingwood and Lin (16) studied the flexure and 
shear behavior of six reinforced concrete beams subjected to two types of fire loads 
conducted in Construction Technology Laboratory of Portland Cement Association, 
USA (21). They found that although all beams developed shear cracks prior to the 
flexural cracks during the start of fire test, all the beams failed in flexural rather than  
 
2
 
(a) Configuration, member sizes, and design loads of a seven-story RC residential 
building 
 
 
(b) Partial deformed shape of RC frame under service load 
   (Beam-column sub-assemblage component is selected as in the circled.)) 
 
Fig. A1 Configuration, design loads, and simulation of a seven-story RC residual 
building  
 
The dimensions of beam, column, and spandrel beam on one side of the test 
specimens were 400 x 500 x 6775 mm, 500 x 500 x 2860 mm and 400 x 500 x 600 
mm respectively. The flexural reinforcement ratios in the sagging and hogging 
moment regions of the beam and longitudinal reinforcement ratio in the column were 
0.87 %, 1.02 %, and 2.10 % respectively. The details of beam reinforcement in Fig. 
 
4
 
(a) Schematic of ceramic fiber shielding on beam-column sub-assemblage test 
specimen in furnace 
 
 
(b) Fire shielding of ceramic fiber blanket on specimen inside furnace 
 
Fig. A3 Fire shielding on beam-column sub-assemblage test specimen in furnace 
 
3-2 Fabrication of components 
The components were supported on steel scaffolding and formwork in the same way 
as they would have been constructed in practice, as shown in Fig. B1 and B2. The 
thermocouples were installed at the target locations inside the specimens before the 
 
6
 
Fig. B2 Handling of specimens from outside of fire laboratory 
 
 
 
Fig. B3 Installation of thermocouples before casting concrete (beam end) 
 
   
 
8
Portland cement was used for both types of concretes.. 
 
 
3-4 Test setup  
3-4-1 Furnace 
The furnace was a composite column and beam furnace with X-sectional dimensions 
5m x 4 m and 8m x 4m ( See Figure C1). The inner width of furnace is 4 m. There 
were nine and six burners on each side of the column and beam furnace, respectively. 
The fuel of combustion system is supplied by natural gas. Seventeen thermocouples 
were installed to monitor the inside temperature of the furnace. The ISO 834 
temperature-time relationship was adopted for this study.  
 
Fig. C1 Schematic of furnace, specimen, loading system, and instrumentations on 
beam 
 
 
3-4-2 Loading facility 
The hydraulic jack of the column was installed at the bottom of the furnace with a 
cross head steel frame over the top of furnace cover serving as a reaction frame, while 
the beam loads were applied by hydraulic jacks from the steel girder across the top of 
furnace.  
 
A reinforced concrete support, with a hinging device at its top surface, sitting on the 
top of the hydraulic jack was used to transmit the load to the bottom end of the 
column. The center distance between the hinging device at the top and bottom 
 
10
 
Fig. D2 Roller support and load cell at beam end away from column 
 
 
3-5-2  Temperature of reinforcing steel and concrete 
The thermocouples were embedded at various locations inside the sections along the 
beam (Fig. A2) before the specimens were cast. The BS designation represents the 
thermocouples installed at the section having a stirrup, while BC represents those 
installed at the section between stirrups measuring the temperatures of the flexural 
reinforcement and concrete respectively as shown in Fig. A2. Thus BS1-3 represents 
the thermocouple at point 3 of section BS1 measuring the stirrup temperature, 
whereas BC1-3 represents point 3 in section BC1 measuring the concrete temperature. 
Steel rods of 7 mm in diameter were fixed at the longitudinal reinforcement to secure 
the positions of concrete thermocouples (sections denoted as BC in Fig. A(2)).   
 
3-5-3 Deformations of beam in pre-heating and heating phases 
The vertical deflectionsΔ1 andΔ2 at load points P1 and P2 were measured by 
LVDT’s installed outside the furnace, as shown in Fig. A2. Additional deflectionΔm 
between P1 and P2 monitored the variation of maximum deflections. Steel blocks 
were tied to the top of the 19 mm diameter ceramic rods and attached to the LVDT’s 
to ensure they were always in contact with the beam during the test. The portion of 
ceramic rod inside the furnace was wrapped with ceramic fiber blanket. In addition, 
the two steel loading rods of the same diameter at P1 and P2 were heavily wrapped 
with ceramic fiber blanket. The horizontal displacement of beam end was measured at 
 
12
the beam loads P1 and P2 were unloaded but the column load was retained. The 
deformations of the beam were recorded. The column load was then increased to a 
higher level proportional to the service load.  
 
The two beam loads P1 and P2 were then increased by the same proportion from zero 
load to the higher load level. In the course of the test the overload behavior of the fire 
damaged specimen was observed and recorded before reaching its final strength stage. 
The cracks occurred on the surface of specimen were traced and marked in red during 
the test. The failure location and load on the specimen were recorded. 
 
4. Analysis 
A commercialized finite element program ANSYS was used to predict the 
temperature distribution in the cross section of beam. A two dimensional heat transfer 
problem was assumed for simplicity. The analysis is conducted by using element 
Plane55, which is a plane element having four nodes with a single degree of freedom, 
temperature, at each node. The element is applicable to a 2-D thermal steady state or 
transient thermal analysis along with the thermal properties of materials suggested in 
EC2 (10). The effects of local spalling of concrete and phase changes of the pore 
water were ignored. Since the steel ratio of the beams was low, the beam section was 
idealized as a concrete section.    
 
5. Results and discussion 
 
The results presented in the following sections are focused on those observed on the 
beam. Those relating to the column and the beam-column joint will be discussed in an 
accompanying paper.  
 
5.1 Concrete Spalling  
Major explosive spalling occurred after 10 minutes of heating for specimen SCC5, 
and continued for a further 20 minutes. No further major explosive spalling took place. 
Through the monitoring window of furnace, part of the concrete spalling was 
observed in both columns and the beam. Figure E1 (a) shows the spalling of concrete 
along the bottom edge of beam within the sagging moment region. 
 
After the fire test, many surface cracks formed on the concrete. The major cracks and 
locations of explosive spalling were marked and recorded. Specimen SCC5 exhibited 
similar behavior of spalling as specimen SCC2 in the previous phase. Figures E1(b) 
and E1(c) illustrate the concrete spalling at the front and bottom faces in sagging and 
 
14
 
 
Fig. E1(c) Spalling occurred along the bottom edge of beam in the tensile 
sagging moment region (near P1 and Δm) (SCC5)  
 
 
5-2 Temperature distributions in beam sections and color changes of 
concrete 
 
The discussion will be based on the temperature data for specimen SCC5. Because of 
the limited number of specimens tested in this study, the measuring points of 
temperature in a section were duplicated in many sections along the beam to confirm 
the readings. In the figures that follow the location of beam sections selected for the 
discussion of temperature is identified by the distance X measured from the column 
face.  
 
Temperatures of concrete and reinforcing steel in hogging moment region 
When the beam is exposed to elevated temperature from the bottom side the top 
reinforcing bars are remote from the fire and are also protected by the floor slab. 
Figure E2 (a) shows the measured temperature variations at 2 in the top layer flexural 
reinforcement in sections BS1 (X = 0.05 m) and BS2 (X = 1.65 m) respectively. After 
three hours the temperatures of the reinforcement was less than 160℃ which does not 
significantly reduce its yield strength. The maximum temperatures at 8 in sections BC1, 
BC3, and BC7 (see Fig. E2 (b)) ranged from 390℃ to 540℃.  This indicates that the 
concrete compressive strength, at the location of bottom layer flexural reinforcement, 
could reduce to 60 % of the ambient strength according to EC2 (10). The maximum  
 
temperatures of vertical leg of stirrups ranged from 500℃ to 560℃, as shown in Fig. 
 
16
 
Fig. E2 (b) Variation of concrete temperature at 8 in sections  
BC1, BC3, and BC7 (Location near bottom flexural steel) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. E2 (c) Variation of temperature at vertical leg of stirrups in sections  
BS2 and BC1 
 
 
Temperatures of concrete and reinforcing steel in the sagging moment region 
Figure E2(d) shows the temperature variations of corner flexural reinforcing bars in 
sections BS1 and BS3, respectively. The maximum temperature of the corner bar  
ranged from 550℃ to 580℃. The maximum measured temperatures of concrete at 
the location of the bottom flexural reinforcement in sections BC1 and BC3 were 
490-540℃ (Fig. E2(b)). The yield strength of tension reinforcement heated to 500℃ 
is predicted to be 67 % of its ambient strength according to EC2 (10). The decrease of 
yield strength in the bottom tension reinforcements would primarily lead to the decrease of 
flexural strength of beam sections in the sagging moment region.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. E2 (e) Variation of concrete temperature at 5 in sections  
BC1, BC3, and BC7  
 
 
 
 
Temperature gradient in section BC3 
Figures E2 (f) and E2 (g) show the temperature gradients along the centerline of 
section BC3 for the various time intervals during the heating phase. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20
 
 
Fig. E3(a)  Vertical deflections at load point P1 (SCC5) 
 
5-3-2 Horizontal displacement at beam end away from column  
The variations of horizontal displacement at the beam end away from the column, as 
shown in Fig. E3 (b), indicate that the maximum horizontal displacements at beam 
end of specimen SCC5 were 30 mm toward the outside of furnace after three hours 
fire exposure.  
 
 
Fig. E3 (b) Horizontal displacement at beam end away from column (SCC5)  
 
22
 Fig. E4(b) Comparison of total beam load -deflection relationships at P1  
(SCC5, residual strength test)  
 
 
5-4-2 Residual strength and failure mode 
 
Specimen SCC5 exhibited a mixed failure behavior with flexural yielding occurred at 
load points immediately followed by the diagonal tension crack formed near to the 
load point P1, which triggered the failure of the beam. Figure E4 (c) shows the 
bending of the specimen SCC5 at the failure stage. Major flexural cracks (marked in 
red) propagated along the previous cracks (marked in black during the heating phase), 
as shown in Fig. E4(d). Figure E4 (e) shows the diagonal tension crack appearing on 
the beam near to the load point P1. Further studies are needed for specimen SCC5 
regarding the post fire behavior in the residual strength test. 
 
 
24
 
Fig. E4(e) Diagonal tension crack formed near to the load point P1 
(front face, SCC5) 
 
 
5. Design implementation  
 
To retain adequate load bearing capacity and to limit the deformations in the structural 
components are very important factors in fire resistant design of a reinforced concrete 
building. The structural endpoint of reinforced concrete beam components specified 
in ASTM E119 (31) requires that the average temperature of the tension 
reinforcement at any section shall not exceed 593℃ (1100 F) during the classification 
period.  The measured temperatures of the bottom flexural reinforcing bar (Fig. E2 
(b)) and the vertical leg of stirrup (Fig. E2 (c)) in section BC1 ranged from 540℃ to 
560℃, which were slightly less than the critical temperature of 593℃. However, the local 
high temperature of the corner bar in the bottom flexural reinforcement in the sagging 
moment region was exposed and reached 580℃.  
 
 
7. Conclusions 
 
Fire resistance of six full scale beam-column sub-assemblage specimens made of 
ordinary and self-compacting concrete were studied to correlate their behavior to a 
seven story reinforced concrete residential building designed based on ambient 
seismic condition. The following conclusions can be drawn from the results of 
specimen SCC5: 
 
 
26
 
5. Okamura, H., Maekawa, K., and Mishima, T.,”Performance based design for 
self-compacting structural high-performance concrete,” SP-228-2, Seventh 
International Symposium on the Utilization of 
High-Strength/High-Performance Concrete, Volume 1, 2005, pp. 13-34. 
 
7. Konig, G., and Dehn, F. (Editors), Sixth International Symposium on 
Utilization of High Strength/High Performance Concrete, Leipzig, June 2002, 
Vol.1 and Vol.2 
 
8. Russell, H. (Editor), Seventh International Symposium on the Utilization of 
High-Strength/High-Performance Concrete, Washington D. C., June 2005, 
Vol.1 and Vol.2 
 
9. Gustaferro AH, Design of Prestressed Concrete for Fire. PCI Journal, Nov/Dec, 
1973 
 
10. Design and Detailing of Concrete Structures for Fire, Concrete Society & 
Institution of Structural Engineers, Joint Report, 1978. 
 
11. Eurocode – Basis of Structural Design – EN 1991-1-2:2002 
 
12. Guidelines of Performance Based Design for Fire Resistance of Structures, 
Architecture and Building Research Institute, Ministry of Interior, Taiwan, 
ROC, 2006 
 
13. Long Phan, “Spalling and mechanical properties of high strength concrete at 
high temperature,” CONSECA ’07 Int. Conf. Proc, 2007, V 2, pp.1595-1608. 
 
14. Bratina, S., and Saje, M, and Planinc, I., “The effects of different strain 
contributions on the response of RC beams in fire,” Engineering Structures, 
Vol. 29, 2007, pp. 418-430. 
 
 
15. Dwaikat, M. B., and Kodur, V. K. R., “Hydrothermal model for predicting 
fire-induced spalling in concrete structural systems,” Fire Safety Journal, 2008, 
doi: 10.1016/j.firesaf.2008.09.001 
 
16. Kodur, V. K. R., Dwaikat, M. M. S., and Dwaika, M. B., “High-temperature 
properties of concrete for fire resistance modeling of structures,” ACI 
Materials Journal, Vol. 105, No. 5, September-October, 2008, pp. 517-525. 
 
17. Ellingwood, B., and Lin, T. D., “Flexure and shear behavior of concrete beams 
during fires,” Journal of Structural Engineering, American Society of Civil 
Engineering, Vol. 117, No. 2, February, 1991, pp. 440-458. 
 
18. Person, B., “Fire resistance of self-compacting concrete, SCC,” Materials and 
Structures, Vol. 37, November 2004, pp. 575-584. 
 
19. Noumowe, A., Carre, H., Daoud, A., and Toutangi, “High-strength 
self-compacting concrete exposed to fire test,” Journal of Materials in Civil 
 
28
