 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
結合車牌辨識系統與 MIP/AAA 建構電子收費系統之研究 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-218 -028  
執行期限：97年8月1日至98年7月31日  
主持人：葉禾田副教授  
執行單位：南台科技大學資訊傳播系暨研究所  
摘要 
近年來，國內交通運輸工程陸續完工通車，當國內運輸硬體設備建置完成後，儼然
搭配的軟體(如智慧型運輸系統 ITS)也就成為未來發展的趨勢。由於台灣無線網路技術
和數位影像技術的突飛猛進，提供給社會大眾更便利的環境，而在資訊爆炸的今日，資
訊的跨整合運用則是現今的潮流。目前國內高速公路和立體停車場的收費模式大都以傳
統人工進行收費動作，在現今的電子收費系統(ETC)則須於車內安裝昂貴的單元設備與
非定期的加值 e 通卡，這不僅會增加使用成本也容易造成駕駛人的不便。本計畫預計以
兩年的時間來進行，第一年的重點是結合車牌辨識系統與 MIP 建構具安全的行動通訊架
構，第二年的重點是結合行動通訊架構和 AAA Server，以期架構出一套適用於高速公路
與立體停車場上滿足交易安全性、使用便利性、付費公平性等三大原則之收費系統。整
個電子收費執行過程中可以清楚的記錄駕駛人的交易資料，並將付費結合於每月的行動
電話帳單裏，不須額外再花時間去購買回數票或安裝高成本的機器設備去進行付費動
作。且從中可由行動通訊節點去監控汽車的位置，以達到在高速公路上以路程計費和立
體停車場以時間計費的公平收費原則。而我們所提出的交易協定不單單只是監控及合理
計算，也可加速汽車在行經高速公路中於收費匝道內的車流速度與降低人力成本及付款
便利等效果。針對立體停車場部分，則是為了改善現行人工或自動投幣收費所造成的不
便與須要停車卻找不到停車指示標誌的困境。而運用我們所整合的電子交易系統執行電
子收費即可改善傳統收費帶來的不便，也可透過服務平台來告知我們鄰近有哪個停車場
是尚有車位可供我們停車。 
關鍵詞：Mobile IP、AAA 註冊協定、電子收費系統 
 4
The Research of Constructing ETC Combined of CLR System and MIP/AAA 
Architecture 
 
Her-Tyan Yeh, Jia-Hong Yang 
Department of Information and Communication, Southern Taiwan University 
No.1, Nantai St,Yung-Kang City, Tainan Taiwan 710 Roc 
htyeh@mail.stut.edu.tw 
 
ABSTRACT 
The transportation works in Taiwan has continually opened for operation in recent years. While the 
hardware is getting finished, the software (such as ITS), which goes with it has become the future trend. 
Because of the rapidly progressing of wireless network and digital image technology, Taiwanese people 
can now enjoy more convenient environment. However, in the age where information explodes, the 
current trend is the integration of information application. Most highways and parking lots in Taiwan 
nowadays use traditional way of charging. The electronic toll collection we have now has to be installed 
inside of the car; the expensive equipment and the recharge e card not only increase the prime cost but also 
bring the drivers great inconvenience. This paper will combine CLR(Car License Recognition) System 
and Mobil IP/AAA to construct a safe, fair and convenient ETC(Electronic Toll Collection) system on 
highways and parking lots. The whole electronic toll collection process can record the trading information 
clearly. The cost can be combined into the cell phone bill; drivers do not need to spend extra time to buy 
ticket books or install expensive equipment. From the mobile communication, the location of cars can be 
monitored. Furthermore, to achieve the fair charging principle, cars on highway will be charged by their 
distance and others in the parking lot will be charged by the exact length. The trading agreement we bring 
up not only can monitor and compute reasonably, but also speed up cars that go through the toll gate and 
lower the labor cast. As for parking lots, this system can improve the inconvenience of traditional way of 
charging such as the drivers need to get off the car or have trouble looking for the parking sign. Using this 
electronic toll collecting system can avoid the disturbance immediately; in addition, we could also be 
informed by the information service of the available parking spaces.   
Key word: Mobile IP, AAA registered protocol, ETC, CLR System  
 
INTRODUCTION 
The overview of Taiwan 3G user (Fig. 1) shows that the overview that Taiwan 3G users have 
grown up in October of 2005 to March of 2007 since 3G telephone entered the market of Taiwan. 
It can find out 8.3% upward growth every month of 3G user. Under the state that 3G telephone 
grows up continuously, 3G mobile internet serves and replaces the services of GPRS and WEP 
too. The speed of 3G mobile internet is not merely faster than GPRS and WEP, and lower price 
and wide bandwidth. The value services are diversification than the service of traditional action 
too.  
AAA structure and support the MN cross over different network roaming of Mobile IP. AAA is 
authentication, authorization and accounting. Authentication is to verify user’s identity and 
valuable internet services. Authorization opens the network service to users by the result of 
authentication. Accounting provides valuation system. When we use the network to carry on any 
trade, we need to use strict AAA authentication to safeguard the security of the trade.  
 
CLR 
CLR is the lane controller through the modules of image sensor, cine-camera, image processor, 
CLR-Ware and illuminator. By mold of cine-camera, analyze and retrieve the car license in order 
to identify car’s identity. Its main application is that every vehicle has unique car license. Fig. 2 
shows the CLR procedure.  
 
 
Fig. 2 The CLR procedure 
 
Nowadays, the efficiency of the CLR system is shown as following: 
(1) The distinguishing speed of each vehicle is less than 0.192 seconds. 
(2) It is about 5 times to distinguish the car license per second. 
(3) The accuracy to distinguish the car license is about 98.625%. 
(4) The angle between cine-camera and vehicle can reach up to 30 degrees. 
(5) It can distinguish Taiwan’s car license include the Chinese and English letter and numbers. 
 
CONSTRUCTING ETC COMBINED OF CLR SYSTEM AND MIP/AAA 
ARCHITECTURE 
In this section, we use MIP/AAA and CLR system to construct a secure ETC system. The 
proposed system can apply to two applications: an electronic toll collection system in expressway 
and an electronic toll collection system in stereoscopic parking area. 
Our registration system is based on MIP/AAA protocol. So, we first build trusting relationship 
between every participated entity. It is sketched as follows:  
1. MN belongs to Home domain. So, we must establish a trusting relationship among MN and 
AAAH (SA1). 
2. In MIP/AAA structure, the function of AAAF (Foreign AAA) and AAAH (Home AAA) is 
authentication, authorization and accounting. So, we must establish a trusting relationship 
among AAAF and AAAH (SA3). 
3. In MIP/AAA structure, the authentication result of AAAH must send to HA, So, we must 
 6
 8
After receiving the message of AAAH, HA verifies the accuracy of M1 and register the COA 
(Care-of-address) of MN and sends back the corresponding message. 
(6) HA --> AAAH: M3, < M3, IDMN, PWMN > SHA-AAAH  
Where M3 =Reply, {FA1ID, HA ID, MN ID, MNCOA, TMN} 
HA sends back the registered corresponding message to AAAH. It represents that MN is a 
legal user.  
(7) AAAH -->AAAF1: M3, < M3, IDMN, PWMN > SAAAH-AAAF1  
AAAH sends back the corresponding message to AAAF1. 
(8) AAAF1 -->FA1: M3, < M3, IDMN, PWMN > SKAAAF1-FA1  
AAAF1 sends back the corresponding message to FA1. 
(9) FA1 -->MN: M3, < M3, IDMN, PWMN > SMN-AAAH  
FA1 sends back the corresponding message to MN and tells him that he has already been a 
legal user.  
(10) MN -->FA2: M4, < M4> SMN-AAAH  
Where M4 =Request {FA2ID, HA ID, MN ID, MNCOA, CARMN, TMN} 
MN will leave the expressway and use the request of redirect service by sending the register 
request to FA2.  
(11) FA2 -->AAAF2: M4, < M4> SKFA2-AAAF2  
CLR -->AAAF2: M5, < M5,>,    Where M5 =CARCLR, TCLR  
If TCLR - TMN <ΔT and CARCLR = CARMN then go to next step;  
Else reject the registration request   
FA2 resends the register request message to AAAF2. After receiving the message sent by 
FA2 and CLR, AAAF2 will check the data of user and car and check the time which left the 
ring road. If it is in reasonable range value, then it passes and goes to next step. If not, it will 
reject the register request message and notify to deal with of the national road police. 
(12) AAAF2 -->AAAH: M4, < M4> SKAAAF2-AAAH  
It passes the leave message to AAAH. After receiving the message, AAAH calculates the 
fee that user must pay and sends the result to HA. AAAH sends the expense of this journey 
too.  
(13) AAAH -->HA: M4, < M4> SKAAAH-HA  
HA records the result and takes the withdraw action.  
(14) HA --> AAAH: M6, < M6 > SKHA-AAAH  
Where M6 =Reply, Request, FA1ID, HA ID, MN ID, MNCOA, TMN, Count MN  
HA sends the finished information and withdraw information Count MN to AAAH.  
(15) AAAH -->AAAF2: M6, < M6> SKAAAH-AAAF1  
It passes the corresponding message to AAAF2.  
(16) AAAF2 -->FA2 : M6,< M6> SKAAAF2-FA2  
It passes the corresponding message to FA2.  
(17) FA2 -->MN: M6, < M6> SMN-AAAH  
It passes the corresponding message and counting message to MN and tells MN that the 
right is end.  
 
SECURITY AND EFFICIENCY ANALYSIS 
SECURITY ANALYSIS  
In section 3, we use MIP/AAA combined with CLR system to construct a safe, convenient and 
 10
fair ETC system which is suitable to expressway and stereoscopic parking area.  
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 1 This Work was supported in part by the National Science Council 
of the Republic of China under contact NSC 97-2221-E-218 -028. 
 
REFERENCES 
C.E Perkins. 1996, IP Mobility Support, IETF Request For Comments, RFC2002, October 
C.E Perkins. 1999, Mobile IP and security issue: an overview, Proceedings of First IEEE/ Popov 
Workshop on Internet Technologies and Services, Page(s): 131-148. 
C.E. Perkins. 2000, Mobile IP joins forces with AAA, IEEE Personal Communications, August 
C.E Perkins and K.Y. Wang. 1999, Optimized Smooth Handoffs in Mobile IP, Proceedings of the 
Fourth IEEE Symposium on Computers and Communications, July.  
C.H Wu. 2002, Bi-Directional Route Optimization in Mobile IP over Wireless LAN, Proceedings 
of 56th IEEE Vehicular Technology Conference,VTC 2002-Fall. 2002, Volume: 2, Page(s) 
1168-1172. 
 
 
International Conference on Business and Information 自從 2004 年第一次在台北劍
潭青年活動中心舉辦以來，今年已是第六屆，每年舉辦的地點皆有不同，明年規劃辦理
的地點將會在日本的 Kitakyushu，可以預期的是將又會是全球專家學者的一大盛會，會
中亦邀請與會人士繼續予以支持，並將優秀的研究論文投至明年的 BAI2010，進一步做
全球學術交流。 
 
最後吾人要感謝國科會對於我們的研究經費之支持與協助，若無國科會之協
助，本次國際交流可能就無法成行，所以在此再一次的感謝國科會，讓我們能夠順利參
與 BAI2009 國際會議並進行相關報告與交流活動。以下為出席 BAI2009 的相關照片，與
台灣同往馬來西亞之資訊安全專家學者合影之照片。 
 
 
