行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
基於人智運算輔助定位分群之群組通訊在耐延遲網路的研究 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫  □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC  99－2221－E－004－005 
執行期間：  99 年 8月 1日至 100 年 9月 30日 
 
計畫主持人：蔡子傑 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員： 鄧偉敦、陳界誠、楊泰榮、羅文卿 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計
畫、列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，■一年□二年後可公開查
詢 
          
執行單位：國立政治大學 資訊科學系 
 
中   華   民   國 100  年 12 月  26  日
去解決電腦難以解決的 AI 問題但由人來做變得格
外簡單。 
由於成本的考量與實際上的限制未必所有的地點都
適合架設無線的 AP，這些沒涵蓋到的部分形成了
通訊上的黑洞。特別是在一個群組出遊的活動中，
P2P 或群組通訊是重要的需求，但不一定要利用到
基地台或 AP 來作群組通訊，更有可能是出遊地點
並無法有這些無線網路的完整服務。例如登山或腳
踏車隊出遊的活動，這些登山步道/自行車步道通
常只在登山口/休息站設立無線 AP 供上網，若是
在進行活動過程中，沿途想要上傳一些照片與朋友
分享、跟群組朋友通訊或個人化的現況詢問，只能
由各個節點彼此合作，透過 multihop 的方式來傳
送訊息。然而，發送端到目的端之間不一定一直存
在有一條端點到端點的路徑可供路由傳送。解決在
這樣的不穩定網路架構下傳輸問題的概念，就稱為
delay tolerant networks /disruption tolerant 
networks(DTN)。 
DTN 或是 opportunistic networks，在這類的網
路架構下，無線節點之間的通訊連線並非同時存
在，而是間歇建立的。因為節點的移動、或是裝置
省電模式的運作與環境因素的影響，造成連線可能
不定時的失效。在 DTN 上採用儲存後攜帶轉發
(store, carry, and forward)的機制來轉送訊
息，也就是訊息從發送端出去後，會先暫存在中途
節點的 buffer 中，等到遇到下一個中途節點或是
目的地才將訊息傳送出去。因此，節點之間不確定
的相遇間隔是造成延遲時間過長的主要原因。除此
之外，跟傳統的網路架構相比，DTN 還面臨許多挑
戰，例如，因為節點移動所造成網路的拓撲不斷改
變、節點裝置上有限制的儲存容量與電源供應等
等。 
在 DTN 上的 routing 策略，根據訊息在網路上傳
播 的 特 性 可 以 區 分 為 兩 種 。 第 一 種 是
replication，利用複製多個訊息的方式來增加到
達接收端的成功率。利用此策略設計出來的協定，
歸類為 flooding 策略。另一種是 knowledge，利
用網路不同的狀態或特性來決定路徑的選擇，這類
的協定歸類為 forwarding 策略。但是過去 DTN 上
routing 協定的設計，通常只專注在少量的訊息、
甚至是單一封包的傳送，因此不符合實際運用上的
需 求。 Network coding，是基於 information 
theory 與 coding theory 的研究。它利用中途節
點在轉送資料的同時進行編碼的動作，來整合網路
中數個以上的 information flow。根據相關的研
究，network coding 可以有效增進整體系統的
throughput。特別是在無線傳輸的環境中，
network coding 可以降低整體系統所需要的訊息
傳輸次數，並且具有容錯與錯誤更正的功能。因
此 ， 在 DTN 的 routing 協定設計上，整合
network coding 的技術是值得研究的課題  
 
我們這一年分別完成定位演算法，並實驗於
展場上；其次完成基於位置與網路編碼用於車載耐
延遲網路之繞路方法；最後我們也利用人智運算設
計一個 mobile geo-tagging 系統。 
 
接下來就分別就三篇論文/報告作成果之摘要
重點： 
 
 
1. 利用 containing zone於展場之定位技術報告 
 
1.1 定位系統流程圖如下: 
演算一: 
 
 Data Collection 
   在 Offline phase 針對欲定位的場地測量
AP 的信號強度(RSSI, received signal strength 
indicator)，測量的點稱為參考點，將所有參考點
的座標及其收到的 AP 信號強度存到資料庫，參考
點中 AP 沒有量到信號強度時 RSSI = -200，收集
信號強度的次數多較能夠減低雜訊對演算法的干
擾，參考點的間隔距離越近定位越精準，相對的也
比較花費人力。 
 
Containing Zone partition 
   我們用 Landmarc 演算法定位發現，利用歐
機里德距離所找出來的標靶(演算法找出 Radio 
map 中和與待測點信號強度最相似的前 5 個點)並
不會帄均分散在待測點的周圍，而且演算法主要是
針對空曠的場地，因為短距離內訊號強度變動不明
標和 Euclidean distance 做 weighted sum，最後
得到預測位置。 
 
演算法二: 
 
    把 上 述 的 Containing Zone 切 到 每 個
Containing Zone 只有一個參考點，最後一樣利用
高斯分布的 overlap 來決定與每個 Containing 
Zone 的相似度，找出與待測點相似度最高的前五
名，稱為標靶，算出這五個標靶的 Euclidean 
distance 做 weighted sum，最後得到預測位置。 
 
 
1.2 Main Results 
 
環境:南港展覽館 
Site survey: 以六到八公尺測量一個參考點。 
實驗數據:在 site survey 之外隨機量十個點當作待
測點，算出預測結果和實際位置的帄均誤差距離演
算法一為 4.5 公尺，演算法二為 3 公尺。 
 
演算法一: Containing Zone size 為 8x8 公尺 
 
 
 
演算法二: 
 
 
 
 
2. "GWAP Design for a Mobile Geo-Tagging 
System With Confident Verification” 
2.1 Abstract 
Location-based services (LBS) gain a lot of attraction 
recently.  However, to collect necessary and accurate 
information to support LBS is always manpower-
consuming, and may be also difficult for machine 
computation.  “Human Computation” can therefore be 
adopted to attack the problems.  These problems which 
are usually difficult for machines to solve can be easily 
completed by human.  We can embed our purpose into 
a designated game.  In this way, players will 
automatically achieve our purpose while playing the 
games.  In this paper, we based on the concept of 
„Games with a Purpose‟(GWAP) to develop a mobile 
geospatial tagging system.  Players share their nearby 
scenic spot information which will then be verified by 
other players who come to the same place later.  Thus 
the information collected by the system can be also 
reliable. However, verification process can alter the 
performance of the system.  We propose three different 
strategies on the task assignment for comparisons.  
Through simulation experiments, our system can indeed 
achieve good performance.   Finally we implement the 
system on the smart phone (Android Phone), and do the 
field test to observe the results. 
2.2 Main Results 
player 2 agrees player 1‟s share information that 
will make CI of player 1 to be 1.  
2. Therefore the system will continue to allocate 
player 1‟s share information for player 3 to do 
verification. We now assume player 3 disagrees 
player 1‟s information which will make CI of 
player 1 to 0. 
3. Now for system, the CI‟s for players 1, 2, and 3 
are all 0, so system will randomly assign 
player‟s information for next player to verify.  
We assume that player 2‟s information is chosen 
for player 4 to verify. 
4. If player 4 agrees, the system will continue to 
assign  player 2‟s share information for player 5 
to do verification since the CI of player 2 
becomes 1 which is currently highest.  
 
Table 1 shows the number of reliable samples and 
misjudge rate under different combination of human 
society.  We can find that when the honest human is 
only 10% proportion of the society, many reliable 
samples can be obtained.  However, all of them are 
misjudged because the misjudge rate is 1.  When the 
honest proportion rises to 30% or 50%, the number of 
reliable samples will decrease, but the misjudge rate 
also decreases.  When there are more honest humans in 
the society, say 90%, the number of reliable samples 
increases, and the misjudge rate decreases dramatically 
to 0. 
 
Table 1: Number of reliable samples and misjudge rate under 
different human behavior 
 HCFA OFA RA 
Honest    10% 
Liar      90% 
 
278 / 1 
 
245.38 / 1 
 
113.16 / 1 
Honest    10% 
Neutral    20% 
Liar      70% 
 
264.88 / 0.847    
 
237.02 / 0.864 
 
97.74 / 0.802 
Honest    30% 
Neutral    20% 
Liar      50% 
 
53.48 / 0.475 
 
30.48 / 0.489 
 
29.81 / 0.489 
Honest    50% 
Neutral    20% 
Liar      30% 
 
58.74 / 0.141 
 
29.32 / 0.144 
  
52.14 / 0.136 
Honest    70% 
Neutral   20% 
Liar      10% 
 
259.22/ 0.0001 
 
244.34/ 0.0001 
 
112.78/ 0.0001 
Honest    90% 
Liar      10% 
 
279.02 / 0 
 
253.5 / 0 
 
117.38 / 0 
(Number of Reliable Samples /Misjudge Rate) 
 
Simulation Results: 
1)  Scenario 1 
In the first scenario, we evaluate the misjudge 
rate in our system under different confidence index 
threshold.  The confidence index threshold ranges from 
[0.2, 0.7].  Figure 4 shows the misjudge rate by three 
different assignment strategies we proposed. The 
average misjudge rate range is from [0,0.0014].  We 
observe that when the CI threshold is smaller, it will 
cause misjudge rate greater. This is because when the 
confidence index threshold is lower, it may produce 
many “reliable” samples, however, some of them may 
be misjudged.  But if we set CI threshold to be higher 
than 0.7, the misjudge rate is almost zero. And we find 
that when CI threshold is lower than 0.5, the misjudge 
rate will dramatically increase.  Hence we define a 
reliable sample and a unreliable sample is showed as 
below: 
 A reliable sample: Confidence Index >= 0.5 & Be 
agreed >= 3 times. 
 A unreliable sample: Confidence Index <= -0.5 & 
Be disagreed <= 3 times. 
 
Figure 4: Misjudge Rate under Different Confidence 
Index Threshold 
 
Figure 5 shows the number of reliable samples 
produced versus number of total play.  From the results, 
we can see how fast the reliable samples can be 
produced for different strategies.  Obviously we can 
find that in the same number of times, HCFA always 
has produced relatively more reliable samples.  This is 
because the system always assigns the information with 
highest CI, thus, leading to a higher probability to reach 
CI threshold.  OFA also has the same trend to let the 
oldest become reliable quickly.  However, if the oldest 
takes much time to obtain higher CI or even doesn‟t get 
a change to reach CI threshold, it will decrease the 
efficiency to produce the samples.  The RA strategy has 
the worse result due to its verification has no focus, i.e., 
each information takes a long time to get a change to be 
verified and increase CI.  
On the other hand, we observe the number of 
unreliable samples shown in Figure 6.  We can find the 
OFA strategies get the most chance to identify 
unreliable samples due to its focus on the oldest no 
matter positively or negatively.  However, HCFA 
always focus the possible reliable information to be 
 
Figure 9: Complete Trees under Different Number of 
Play 
 
 
 
Figure 10: Incomplete Trees with different number of 
reliable samples 
 
3. "Location assisted Routing with Network 
Coding in Vehicular Delay Tolerant Networks” 
 
3.1 Abstract 
This paper proposed a routing protocol integrating the 
characteristic of flooding-based protocol and 
forwarding-based protocol. The main idea of our 
protocol is to let message would not be flooded to 
every node but to the nodes moving toward or moving 
closer to destination. When nodes contact with each 
other, our approach will use the path of node, node‟s 
moving direction and its velocity to estimate the 
probability to reach the destination of message. At the 
same time, we exploit network coding to transmit coded 
block instead of message fragment in order to avoid 
sending redundant replication, make data transmit more 
reliable and more robust to packet losses or delays. 
From the result of simulation, we could see that our 
protocol have a higher performance especially in the 
bandwidth consumption compared to other protocols. 
 
3.2 Main Results 
A. System Model 
We model a DTN as a set of mobile nodes in a 
vehicular environment. And there is only allowed inter-
vehicle communication. Each node in the network 
equips GPS device. And the navigation system is 
installed on every node. The nodes use the navigation 
system to find a shortest path to destination. The 
navigation system provides three kind of primitive 
information: trajectory, moving direction and velocity. 
Based on the information provided by navigation 
system, every node can collect navigation information 
contained in beacon which is broadcasted from the 
contact neighbors during contact time and make routing 
decision accordingly. The destination of message has a 
fixed location such as the portal to internet. A node can 
deliver messages to the final recipient or via 
intermediate nodes. 
B. Delivery Probability Estimation 
We use location information to estimate the 
delivery probability. First of all, if there is a node that 
will bring the message closer to destination, we might 
be able to rely on it to deliver messages. So we adopt 
the future trajectory of node provided by navigation 
system as one of the estimation factors. However, the 
trajectory information is not enough to define good 
relay candidates. For example, a bus may have a fixed 
trajectory closer to destination but its moving direction 
is away from it. Therefore, the node‟s moving direction 
should also take into account. Finally, it is very 
intuitive to select a faster node to take the responsibility 
for delivering message. Combined the three factors, the 
formula we used to estimate delivery probability listed 
below: 
 
Where c is the contact node,  are predefined 
system parameters range from 0 to 1, . 
Path(c) is the ratio to reach destination range from 0 to 
1. Dir(c) is ratio moving toward destination range from 
0 to 1. V(c) is relative velocity ratio range from 0 to 1. 
If the result of P(c) is greater than the predefined 
threshold, then the contact node c are viewed as an 
appropriate relay candidate. 
C. Location-assisted routing with network 
Now we will give a full description of our proposed 
protocol. The LANC protocol executes when two nodes 
are within radio range and have discovered one another. 
It has five stages: Initialization, Probability estimation, 
Coding, Scheduling and Termination.  
When two nodes contact with each other, they will 
collect metadata during initialization stage. The 
metadata contained in beacon includes: trajectory 
information of node, node‟s moving direction, velocity, 
rank map and purge table. The first three factors are 
used to estimate delivery probability as we mentioned 
because these nodes don‟t know the messages reached 
their final recipient. To ease the kinds of redundant 
transmission and buffer occupancy, once the 
destination recovers the original message successfully 
by decoding operation, the purge table will be updated 
by adding the message identifier and the time it 
decoded. The purge table will be propagated by 
beacons over the network. After received the beacons, a 
node will purge the buffer by discarding the coded 
blocks with the same message identifier immediately 
because it is not necessary to send the coded blocks of 
this message anymore. 
We evaluate the performance of LANC using three 
metrics:  
 Message delivery ratio 
 Average delay latency. 
 Transmission overhead: The transmission 
overhead is defined as: 
 
We compare LANC with another two routing protocols: 
Epidemic Routing and PROPHET Routing. The 
Epidemic Routing is a greedy approach that duplicates 
copies of message to every contact node. The 
PROPHET Routing uses history of encounter and 
transitivity to select a better relay node. We modified 
these two protocols such that they have the ability to 
perform RLNC. 
Fig.9 shows that the performance of each protocol 
drops down with the load of flow increase. 
Once there are more flows in the network, 
congestion might occur at some bottleneck relay node. 
Our protocol uses purge table to inform other node to 
purge its buffer. This operation not only frees memory 
storage but also reduces the chance the congestion 
occurs. Moreover, LANC uses rank map to schedule 
the priority of coded blocks. If a message is already full 
rank, LANC will bypass the opportunity to next 
message. 
 At the same time, LANC views the results of 
estimation function as the probability a node would 
future move toward the destination, LANC could 
schedule coded blocks according the probability to 
deliver it to another node or not, so the responsibility 
for delivering message could be shared by a set of 
nodes. Even if a relay node would never reach the 
destination in the future, it won‟t be a problem hence 
the node doesn‟t have all the coded blocks. 
In Fig.10, the average delay increases with the 
trend of flow load. The LANC has a little higher delay 
time than Epidemic routing with NC. The difference is 
about 1200 seconds. For non-real time demand such as 
sending emails or uploading photos, it‟s considered 
acceptable. And Epidemic routing tries every possible 
contact opportunities, the network bandwidth it wasted 
must be very large. In other words, our protocol is more 
efficient because the bandwidth consumed by LANC is 
less. 
As for PROPHET routing with NC, the estimation it 
made is based on historical encounter record, so it has a 
poor result. The method PROPHET routing used might 
be suitable for a small closed area like a concert or a 
lounge bar. Because LANC uses the future possible 
trajectory of node to predict the delivery probability, 
LANC could make more precise estimation in large 
scale outdoor environment. 
Fig.11 shows that the overhead ratio of our approach 
is much smaller than Epidemic routing with NC and 
PROPHET routing with NC. The LANC will select 
“better” relay candidates to deliver coded block, hence 
our protocol require less transmissions. Although it will 
keep the coded blocked in buffer for a while, the purge 
mechanism will ease the situation. 
 
Fig. 9 Delivery ratio of multiple flows 
 
Fig. 10 Average delay of multiple flows 
 
Fig 11. Overhead ratio of multiple flows 
 
 2 
不相關，因此沒有特別印象。 
接下來，就是我要報告論文的 session了,我這次報告的主題是 GWAP，這是一個時坐
在手機上的實驗性質的遊戲，並帶有策略目的的遊戲，希望比較在不同策略下，可
以較有效率的產出具品質與相互驗證的結果。很榮幸有這個機會，對與會人士介紹
我們的研究，在場也有來自澳洲的學者提出問題，主持人也給了一些回響。 
接著下一個 session，就是我所主持的，剛好這個 session有來自中央資工的論文報
告，很榮幸認識了來自中央資工的周立德教授，也對他們的電子紙的應用研究留下
深刻的印象。另外，與會人士也有來自美國任教的中國教授，我們也相互留下名片，
以及交換研究心得。 
二、與會心得 
參加國際會議當然最重要的就是交流與吸取別人研究經驗與成果分享，雖然這個會
議舉辦在中國，參加的華人佔大多數，可是卻是有不少的外國學者與會，規模還算
不小，舉辦單位非常的用心。在晚宴時，大會主席一一唱名，每個國家都點名一位
上去發表心得，結果發現居然幾乎全世界的國度都有人參加，宴會氣氛非常熱絡，
大家都約定好下一屆再次投稿，可以繼續支持這個會議。 
大會結束後最後一天，還舉辦了旅順一日遊，帶領我們參觀一些日俄戰爭時代留下
來的一些歷史景點與古蹟，參觀博物館瀋陽事變的一些文物，回憶了一些民國史實，
為這個會議畫下一個完美句點。總而言之，參加這個會議，真的得到不少面向的收
穫。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
無 
GWAP Design for a Mobile Geo-Tagging System 
With Confident Verification
Tzu-Chieh Tsai, Tai-Rong Yang,  
Department of Computer Science 
National Chengchi University, 
Taiwan, Taipei,  
ttsai@cs.nccu.edu.tw, g9725@cs.nccu.edu.tw 
     
Abstract—Location-based services (LBS) gain a lot of 
attraction recently.  However, to collect necessary and accurate 
information to support LBS is always manpower-consuming, 
and may be also difficult for machine computation.  “Human 
Computation” can therefore be adopted to attack the problems.  
These problems which are usually difficult for machines to solve 
can be easily completed by human.  We can embed our purpose 
into a designated game.  In this way, players will automatically 
achieve our purpose while playing the games.  In this paper, we 
based on the concept of ‘Games with a Purpose’(GWAP) to 
develop a mobile geospatial tagging system.  Players share their 
nearby scenic spot information which will then be verified by 
other players who come to the same place later.  Thus the 
information collected by the system can be also reliable.  
However, verification process can alter the performance of the 
system.  We propose three different strategies on the task 
assignment for comparisons.  Through simulation experiments, 
our system can indeed achieve good performance.   Finally we 
implement the system on the smart phone (Android Phone), and 
do the field test to observe the results. 
Keywords-Human Computation,Game with a purpose(GWAP); 
Mobile Geo-Tagging System; Location-Based Service. 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
The ‘Game with a Purpose’(GWAP) genre [1,2,5] is a 
type of Human Computation.  It is an idea that solving the 
problems by computers is difficult, but is easy for human. In 
traditional computation, a human employs a computer to 
solve a problem. A human provides a formalized problem 
description to a computer, and receives a solution to 
interpret. Human computation frequently reverses the roles. 
The computer asks a person or a large group of people to 
solve a problem, then collects, interprets, and integrates their 
solutions, by taking advantage of people’s desire to be 
entertained. Human computation can solve some problems 
that computer computation cannot currently resolve 
completely. 
In[3],Yuen et al. gave an extensive survey of human 
computation systems. And the concept of GWAP which 
belongs to the ‘Social Game-Based Human Computation 
with Online-Players’, was pioneered by Luis Von Ahn 
and his colleagues. Especially, the ESP game, which is 
one kind of GWAP, was made for a variety of human 
computation tasks.  
On the other hand, in the past few years, mobile 
handheld devices have become an indispensable part of our 
daily lives. Integrating with some sensors (i.e., compass, 
camera and GPS receivers), many different new mobile 
applications can be developed. For example, users can know 
their own location via GPS on the Google Map[5], and use 
camera to take photographs with their location.  This will 
allow images to be browsed on Flicker[6] or Panoramio[7], 
and provide large collections of publicly available geo-
referenced images.  
The adoption of mobile phones in recent years has 
brought society to the point where mobile computing 
technology is in the hands of the masses. Potential 
applications for this ubiquitous connectivity are only just 
beginning to be explored.  One of those promising areas of 
investigation is the field of pervasive gaming. These 
experimental games are designed to examine how the 
emerging capabilities on offer could be practically used in 
the real world. Mobile social games represent a subset of this 
genre and utilize the interactions made between players and 
their relationship with the physical world. 
In this paper, we integrate the concept of GWAP to 
develop a mobile geo-tagging system to collect reliable 
scenic spot information. The existing GWAP-based geo-
tagging approaches focus on design, implementation and 
measurement of real word applications.  However, they 
rarely focused on the performance of GWAP systems.  We 
would design our system that will allow players to play at 
any urban location, including indoors, so that by-products 
could be generated for any desired area.  The system will 
allow players to manually correct location on the google map. 
This is because GPS is usually inaccurate in the indoor 
environment.  More importantly, players can share the scenic 
spot information, and other players use the information(e.g., 
texts, images, GPS coordinate and compass direction ) to 
verify to increase the confidence of the information collected. 
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 
introduces related works in GWAP-based geospatial tagging 
systems. In Section 3, we present our analysis of such 
systems and compare the three proposed task assignment 
algorithms. In Section 4, we present the simulation results. In 
Section 5, we present the implementation screen on the 
Android phone. Section 6 concludes this paper and remarks 
on the future work. 
  
FIGURE 2: HCFA FLOW CHART 
1. Player 1 shares information on local scenic spots. 
Then player 2 does verification and is assigned with 
the information of player 1 since it has the currently 
highest CI.   We assume player 2 agrees player 1’s 
share information that will make CI of player 1 to be 
1.  
2. Therefore the system will continue to allocate player 
1’s share information for player 3 to do verification. 
We now assume player 3 disagrees player 1’s 
information which will make CI of player 1 to 0. 
3. Now for system, the CI’s for players 1, 2, and 3 are all 
0, so system will randomly assign player’s 
information for next player to verify.  We assume that 
player 2’s information is chosen for player 4 to verify. 
4. If player 4 agrees, the system will continue to assign  
player 2’s share information for player 5 to do 
verification since the CI of player 2 becomes 1 which 
is currently highest.  
C. System Misjudgement 
However, human may make mistakes or intentionally 
cheat while doing the verification.  For example, assume that 
the first player shares a wrong information.   In this case, we 
call the player is a “liar”.   And unfortunately, the next player 
to verify is also a liar, thus, he/she will “agree” the share 
information provided by the first player.   Therefore, in the 
worse case, the system may eventually judge the wrong 
information to be a reliable sample once it gets many liars to 
agree it.   When this happens, a “misjudgment” is generated 
which produces a fake information.  Figure 3 depicts the 
situation. 
 
 
FIGURE 3:  MISJUDGMENT 
Now we know the system may cause “misjudgment”.  To 
emulate the practical situation to see the effect, further we 
consider players’ human behaviors.  We assume there are 3 
kinds of characteristics for the behaviors, namely, honest, liar 
and neutral.  “Honest” humans always do the right judgment, 
while “liar” humans always intentionally do the wrong 
judgment.  “Neutral” humans do right and wrong judgment 
in half.  Table 1 shows the number of reliable samples and 
misjudge rate under different combination of human society.  
We can find that when the honest human is only 10% 
proportion of the society, many reliable samples can be 
obtained.  However, all of them are misjudged because the 
misjudge rate is 1.  When the honest proportion rises to 30% 
or 50%, the number of reliable samples will decrease, but the 
misjudge rate also decreases.  When there are more honest 
humans in the society, say 90%, the number of reliable 
samples increases, and the misjudge rate decreases 
dramatically to 0. 
 
Table 1: Number of reliable samples and misjudge rate under 
different human behavior 
 HCFA OFA RA 
Honest    10% 
Liar      90% 
 
278 / 1 
 
245.38 / 1 
 
113.16 / 1 
Honest    10% 
Neutral    20% 
Liar      70% 
 
264.88 / 0.847    
 
237.02 / 0.864 
 
97.74 / 0.802 
Honest    30% 
Neutral    20% 
Liar      50% 
 
53.48 / 0.475 
 
30.48 / 0.489 
 
29.81 / 0.489 
Honest    50% 
Neutral    20% 
Liar      30% 
 
58.74 / 0.141 
 
29.32 / 0.144 
  
52.14 / 0.136 
Honest    70% 
Neutral   20% 
Liar      10% 
 
259.22/ 0.0001 
 
244.34/ 0.0001 
 
112.78/ 0.0001 
Honest    90% 
Liar      10% 
 
279.02 / 0 
 
253.5 / 0 
 
117.38 / 0 
(Number of Reliable Samples /Misjudge Rate) 
IV. SIMULATIOIN RESULTS 
A. Simulation Setup 
We analyze our mobile geo-tagging system with the 
following aspects: (A1) Measure the effect for different 
confidence index threshold, (A2) Compare the number of 
reliable or unreliable samples in our proposed three 
verification assignment. The simulation model is 
implemented in JAVA, with parameters shown in Table 2. 
The number of total play is distributed in the range of [1000, 
10000], which is proportional to ascending.  Each 
information is verified at least three times.  That is, we set 
each node (information) must be played at least three times 
of agree or three times of disagree.  
 
Table 2: Simulation Parameters. 
Parameters Default Values 
Number of total play 1000~10000 
Number of Each node verification >=3 times (Sample threshold) 
Confidence Index 0.2 ~ 0.7 
 
Previous study indicates that human behavior will cause 
misjudgment.  Therefore, the CI threshold will be sensitive 
for the quality of our system performance.  For simplicity, 
On the other hand, we further observe the number of 
Incomplete Tree with different number of reliable samples 
for HCFA_Most, HCFA_Least and HCFA_RA. We can see 
that even HCFA_Most produces indeed much more 
Complete Trees than HCFA_Least and HCFA_RA, but for 
the incomplete trees, HCFA_Least has more almost-
complete tree (3 or 4 reliable samples in the incomplete tree) 
than HCFA_Most and HCFA_RA (Figure 10).  So we think 
the HCFA_Least is more suitable than HCFA_Most. 
 
 
Figure 7 : Complete Trees under Different Number of Play 
 
 
Figure 8:Complete Trees under Different Number of Play 
 
 
Figure 9: Complete Trees under Different Number of Play 
 
 
 
Figure 10: Incomplete Trees with different number of reliable samples 
 
V. SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION 
We performed our experiment in NCCU Campus. 
There are 24 Players for this experiment. Each player take a 
Android phone to proceed. Table 3 describes the 
experimental environment and resource we set.  
 
Table 3: Experimental Setup 
Environment NCCU Campus  
Android Phone HTC Hero & HTC Desire 
Version Android 2.1 
O.S. Microsoft Windows XP  
System Language Java 
Sensors GPS , Camera , Compass 
 
Figure 11: System Architecture 
 
Figure 11 depicts our mobile system architecture. System 
adopts client-server architecture. The server is responsible 
for data storage and task assignment, while the clients are 
mobile players and connected to the server via the Internet. 
There are two game-playing rules: Sharer and Verifier, and 
players are allowed to switch between the roles during run 
time. 
A. Experimental Setup 
When a player starts our application in Android phone, it 
meanwhile will open the GPS sensor. Figure 12 shows the 
login page. We combine the Google account as part of our 
entrance.  This has the advantage that we do not have to 
maintain the players’ account and password, and players also 
can be more relieved to use our system. GPS may be not 
available due to indoor environment, so Figure 13 shows the 
manual correction screen, i.e. the player can self decide its 
location. If the player corrects the location dishonestly, its 
share information will be disagreed by other players 
according to our verification design.  Figure 14 shows the 
main screen in NCCU campus.  We use landmark at each 
NCCU building, according to the player’s location.  Then the 
system will show the building name (for example, Daren 
Building Nearby).  Here we also integrate the compass 
sensor, and thus user can see self direction and can play share 
or verify.  If the user choose share, Figure 15 shows the share 
screen; player enters the text and photo information to the 
server. 
 1 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：100年 12月 28 日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
本次會議在義大利羅馬舉行，地點選在羅馬市靠西南方的 H10 Roma Citta飯店，會
議一樣由 keynote speaker開始，第一場的主題是”The Sky Looks Cloudy but there 
is a Clear Corner”，speaker為義大利 U. of Messina的 Prof. Dr. Massimo 
Villari，介紹雲端的一些新想法以及未來的發展，從這個演講發現，雲端的研究各
國都在如火如荼地搶進，雖然模糊但又好像有撥雲見日的味道，為網路或應用服務
計畫編號 NSC 99－2221－E－004－005 
計畫名稱 基於人智運算輔助定位分群之群組通訊在奈延遲網路的研究 
出國人員
姓名 
蔡子傑 
服務機構
及職稱 
政治大學資訊科學系 
副教授 
會議時間 
100年 09月 25日
至 
100年 09月 30日 
會議地點 
Rome, Italy 
會議名稱 
(中文) 
(英文)The Third International Conference on Creative Content 
Technologies (CONTENT 2011) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 
(英文)Location-Based Mobile Collaborative Digital Narrative 
Platform 
附件四 
 3 
古競技場以及梵諦岡博物館等景點，享受這個古城的風土人情。義大利確實是歐洲
最具文藝氣息的地方，現在研究潮流是往跨領域結合的方向，因此在這個人文藝術
氣息的地方，若仍感受一些，有時對研究的影響是在淺移默化之中不可言喻的。    
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
無 
四、建議 
無 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
大會論文集 CD一片 
六、其他 
無 
 
 
 
 
B. Why Location-Based 
Nowadays, the characteristics of the smart mobile 
devices contain touch input, GPS, sensors, and Internet 
access capabilities.  We can only carry one mobile phone to 
make records and tell a story of life without constraints of 
space and time.  Narrative in the past has ignored the 
atmosphere of ‘space’; however, the portability of mobile 
devices gives the narrative vitality for the new development 
opportunities to the narrative of space. Narrative scholars 
such as Herman said: "a storyteller prompts his or her 
interlocutors to relocate from the here and now of the current 
interaction to the alternative space-time coordinates of the 
storyworld." [15]. Henry Jenkins said: "In a new transmedia 
storytelling environment, I want to introduce an important 
third term into this discussion - spatiality - and argue for an 
understanding of game designers less as storytellers and 
more as narrative architects." [17]. Therefore, through the 
supplement of mobile devices, the narrative may be able to 
let users add more space into the story elements.  In addition 
to the narrator, audiences are also assisted through mobile 
technology, so that the narrative content with the perception 
of space can have more immediate and immersive nature of 
the association.  Just as Y.-F. Tuan said, "we can perceive 
the body senses the presence of space" [7]. 
Besides, from the users’ habits and experience point of 
view, “location-based services” is the highest viscosity of 
service (Figure 2), according to market research consulting 
firm InsithtXplorer survey.  This is because the location is a 
significant factor in attracting users [2].  Therefore, the 
location information will be built in our platform system, and 
is also an important basis for the user to search, edit and read. 
 
 
Figure 2. Using viscosity survey [2] 
 
  To this end, we also find some service and content 
providers trying to develop similar applications. These 
applications are based on the story games with location 
information. With these features, the games are more 
“stereo” and more vivid.  For example, Disney's Kim 
Possible World Showcase Adventure [24] uses Walt Disney 
World theme parks as the playgrounds, and uses the Disney 
animated TV series Kim Possible as the story elements.  In 
this game, everyone can join the organization using mobile 
devices.  The system can set the roles as heroes or villains to 
achieve the tasks given. The Walt Disney Company hoped 
that the application can impress the minds of tourists, and 
somewhat make the park much special from others. 
  The Disney's application is customized and not open to 
the public to develop more other applications. However, it 
did the concept proof of the trend for location-based story 
games. 
C. Why Collaborative 
The earliest forms of storytelling were thought to have 
been primarily oral, combined with gestures and expressions. 
Digital storytelling means using new digital tools to help 
ordinary people tell stories in a compelling and emotionally 
engaging form, so that the story becomes more rich and 
diverse and full of surprises. Cao [22] had proposed a PESE 
(Personalized Storytelling Environment) system which used 
the concept of Web 2.0, namely, collaborative narrative 
approach to production stories. The idea for PESE is to 
combine both multimedia production and Web 2.0 
production knowledge.  Storytelling is an efficient means to 
fulfill learning goals. Knowledge is exchanged within 
communities when stories are told. 
Jhao-Ling Chen [9] created collaborative narrative 
storylog which was integrating the social sciences with 
computing technology to help reveal personal brain thinking 
to realize physically by storytelling, immersed audio, 
location-specific content, and blog.  Users interact with 
others to create the story from the formation of the 
partnership, and thus widen the virtual social relationship. 
Collaborative narrative created the "Collective wisdom" 
which is an important output in the Web 2.0 era.  
Cooperation not only enriches the narrative content, but also 
broadens social relations. Through mutual cooperation with 
the exchange of ideas and feelings, then a story with 
wonderful content can be produced.  Therefore, the 
collaboration feature will be also one of the features in our 
platform design.  
 
To sum up, the contribution of this research includes the 
pilot study of the field of “mobile narrative”.  We figure out 
the important features that have to be added in such systems.  
We also base on our survey results to develop a platform to 
do field trial. 
D. This paper organization 
This paper is organized as follows: Section I, as 
aforementioned, briefed the relevant research and survey 
data.  Then we addressed the motivation, background and 
goal of our work. Section II presents the case studies. We 
will discuss and analyze the characteristics for the existing 
mobile digital narrative applications. To this end, we also 
compare them from different usage aspects. Section III will 
describe our system architecture and experimental process 
 
 
III. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE AND EXPERIMENTAL 
PROCEDURE 
A. System architecture 
The system architecture is the client-server model.  The 
server is the database for storing and processing data (story) 
generated by users.  After editing, users can upload the 
stories to the database and share the content with others.  In 
order to maintain the ‘spatiality’, only the content restricted 
to the nearby location can be queried or downloaded to the 
mobile device (client).  The mobile app will have the 
features mentioned before, e.g. location service agent, 
information processing agent, sensing management and data 
analysis, etc. (Fig. 6). 
 
 
Figure 6. System architecture 
B. System Design 
The system is implemented on the Android phones.  The 
features include the following: 
 
1. Add collaborative editing. 
2. Support offline editing. 
3. Allows the users to use a variety of media type for digital 
narrative. 
4. To a restricted geographical location, the user must visit 
the place to be able to read the existing narrative. 
 
The followings will explain the user interface and 
operation procedures for our system: 
 
First the user must apply for an account of the system to 
log in before using (Fig. 7). After logging, the system will 
remember the status automatically, unless the user clicks log 
off. 
We design four sub-pages with the main page (Figure 8).  
These four sub-pages are major frequently used functions. 
This sub-pages design in this user interface is for easily 
switching pages. Fig. 8 shows the location of nearby users 
and currently available narrative themes. 
                       
Figure 7. System Login screen, Figure 8. System main page 
 
Click the anchor on the map (Figure 9), the system will 
show the list of the nearby narrative themes below.  This list 
design is for easy distinguishing from all the themes, in the 
case of too many themes overlapping on the map. 
 
Figure 9. The menu bar of clicking the anchor on map 
 
Figure 10 is the profile page. The page will display the 
personal points value (the number of stars), the number of 
friends, the number of collaborative partners, and the number 
of published content.  Three types of the content presentation 
can be chosen, namely (from left to right in Fig. 10), 
rendering on the map, arranged in thumbnail and list type. 
   
Figure 10. Profile page 
 
Figure 11 is My Stuff page that includes my friends, my 
collections, and shopping cart items.  "Shopping cart items" 
is designed to allow users to access other people's stories, so 
that the contents of the platform can have a high degree of 
interaction/collaboration in order to be able to produce more 
diverse and rich content. 
Add new page is shown in Figure 12 The content is 
divided into adding new story theme, and adding 
 
 
or confusion, and the screen click feedback for user is very 
important, because if there is no feedback mechanism, the 
user will not know whether the click is successful or not.  
We amended the interface design by the suggestions, then 
implemented on the android mobile phones, and did the field 
trial to evaluate the performance of the system. 
In the part of the overall system, users respond that too 
long login/upload time would miss recording important 
moments, and also could make users impatient not to 
continue operating the system.  Even so, the users all gave 
positive appreciation to our functional design. Users agreed 
that our mobile collaborative digital narrative platform have 
reached the goal of this study.  For example, the system can 
use different media to narrative, and narrative content can be 
sorted/queried.  Users assents that relation of location and 
contents is attractive. The stories generated can incur their 
curiosity, and shorten time to acquaint themselves with the 
location.  The results are consistent to the motivation and 
goal of the work.  
V. CONCLUTION AND FUTURE ENHANCEMENT 
The design of a location-based mobile collaborative 
narrative platform is proposed in this paper.  The field 
experimental results show that the system achieved positive 
satisfaction from the users, and did fit the narrative trend in 
the new era. 
This research can be viewed as a pilot study in the field. 
It is first focused on narrative behaviors.  According to the 
interviews, most users would like their content to be shared 
with friends.  This implies users generally prefer the social 
functions which can be extended to the system in the future. 
On the other hands, for the efficient transmission of the 
content in the databases, we will suggest to extend the 
abilities of transmission to be P2P mode or DTN (Delay 
Tolerant Network) in the next version. With this pilot study, 
we believe that the development of mobile collaborative 
platforms will achieve more successes. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] Institute for Information Industry, <3rd Quarter 2010 Mobile 
Customers in Taiwan>, Date: November 24, 2010, 
Source:http://www.find.org.tw/find/home.aspx?page=many&i
d=275. 
[2] InsightXplorer, <ARO Observation-Internet Use Observed in  
2010>, Date: 2010, 
Source:http://www.iama.org.tw/upload/ResourceReport/2011
0209041212213.pdf. 
[3] Liu Weigong, <Service is "Content Industry": New Trends in 
Service Innovation>, Date: December 2010,  
Source:http://itc.tier.org.tw/2010/ppt/2-
3_Dr_WeiGongLiou.pdf. 
[4] Chueh-Pin Chao, <Digital Learning and Experience, the 
Efforts of European Heritage ~ (b)>, Digital Archives and 
learning newsletter, VIII XII. Date: December 15, 2009, 
Source:http://newsletter.teldap.tw/news/InsightReportContent
.php?nid=3296&lid=325. 
[5] Wikipedia, 〈 Web2.0 〉 , Date: March, 2011, 
Source:http://zh.wikipedia.org/zh-tw/Web_2.0. 
[6] Wikipedia, 〈 OpenStreetMap 〉 , Date: March, 2011, 
http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Traditional_Chinese:Main_Page. 
[7] Yi-Fu Tuan writes, Pan Guicheng translation. "Perspective in 
the Experience of Space and Place", Taipei: National Institute 
for Compilation, 1997. 
[8] Ling-yi Huang, "Space of the Digital Age - The Time of 
Narrative Structure: The Facade Site as An Example", Taiwan 
Society of Information Society Annual Conference, pages 
135-160, 2008. 
[9] Jhao-Ling Chen, "The Never Ending Story: A Collaborative 
Narrative Storylog", Ming Chuan University, Information and 
Communication Engineering, Master Thesis, 2006. 
[10] Chen Jianxiong translation, "Interaction Design", Taipei, 
Chuan-Hua Books, 2009. 
[11] Xing-sheng Kuan et al., "Design Methods", Taipei, Chuan-
Hua Books, 2008. 
[12] Insight, National Taiwan University Research Center of 
Innovation and Synergy for Intelligent Home and Living 
Technology, <Interactive Design>, Date: December, 2010,  
Source: http://insight.ntu.edu.tw/zh-tw/node/871. 
[13] Insight, National Taiwan University Research Center of 
Innovation and Synergy for Intelligent Home and Living 
Technology, <Human-Computer Interface Evaluation>, Date: 
December, 2010, Source: http://insight.ntu.edu.tw/zh-
tw/node/693. 
[14] S. Chatman, Story and Discourse: Narrative Structure in 
Fiction and Film. Ithaca,N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1978. 
[15] Herman, Story Logic: Problems and Possibilities of Narrative. 
Lincoln & London: University of Nebraska Press, 2002. 
[16] ITU, The World in 2010, Source:http://www.itu.int/ITU-
D/ict/material/FactsFigures2010.pdf, 2010. 
[17] Henry Jenkins, "Game Design as Narrative Architecture", In 
First Person: New Media as Story, Performance, and Game. 
Edited by Pat Harrington and Noah Wardrip-Fruin. 
Cambridge: MIT Press, 2003. 
[18] R. Kristof and A. Satran, Interactivity by Design. Mountain 
View: Adobe Press, 1995. 
[19] E. G. Mishler, Research Interviewing: Context and Narrative. 
MA, Cambridge, Harvard University Press, 1986. 
[20] J. Nielsen, Usability Engineering, San Francisco: Academic, 
1993. 
[21] Nicola J Bidwell, Thomas Reitmaier, Gary Marsden, and 
Susan Hansen, “Designing with Mobile Digital Storytelling in 
Rural Africa”, CHI '10: Proceedings of the 28th International 
Conference on Human factors in computing systems, pages 
1593-1602, 2010. 
[22] Yiwei Cao, Ralf Klamma, and Andrea Martini, “Collaborative 
Storytelling in the Web 2.0”, STEG'08: Proceedings of the 
First International Workshop on Story-Telling and 
Educational Games at EC-TEL08, Sep. 16, 2008. 
[23] SingalPoint, <White Paper on Conversational Advertising>, 
Date: June 2010, Source: 
www.dm2pro.com/downloads/20100609_3/download. 
[24] <Disney's Kim Possible World Showcase Adventure>, Date: 
2011, Source: 
http://disneyworld.disney.go.com/parks/epcot/attractions/kim-
possible/. 
[25] App Store, <picplz>, Date: June, 2011, Source: 
http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/picplz/id382339383?mt=8. 
[26] App Store, <Broadcastr>, Date: May, 2011, Source: 
http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/broadcastr/id423169367?mt=8. 
[27] App Store, <Instgram>, Date: May, 2011, Source: 
http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/instagram/id389801252?mt=8. 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：蔡子傑 計畫編號：99-2221-E-004-005- 
計畫名稱：基於人智運算輔助定位分群之群組通訊在耐延遲網路的研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 5 2 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
