 2
寸線寬已達為 65 nm，預計到 2013年可達 32 
nm，到 2019年時將可達 16 nm以下[1-3]。
但於積體電路的特徵尺寸的縮小，其曝光光
線的波長就必須越來越短，因此在微影製程
時，會造成解析度與聚焦深度無法兼顧，階
梯覆蓋度(Step Coverage)也較差，此時若晶圓
表面沒有全面平坦化，在塗佈光阻後，於顯
影時會因為各處光阻的厚度不一，晶圓表面
上的細微凹凸的圖形就會對曝光聚焦效果會
造成負面影響，因而無法得到良好的解析
度，故超大型的積體電路的矽晶圓表面粗糙
度及平坦度愈顯其重要，因此每次沉積後需
將 矽 晶 圓 全 面 平 坦 化 (Global 
planarization)[4] 。 
目前業界所採用的修整器可分為兩大
類，一種是毛刷，如圖一所示，主要的作用
是將拋光墊上的殘屑刮除，並不能在 PU 的
拋光墊上製作凹溝；另一種是鑽石修整器(如
圖九所示)，鑽石修整器除了可以刮除在拋光
墊上的阻塞物外，還可以移除一層拋光墊，
使得拋光墊裸露出新的表面。鑽石修整器一
般都是將許多顆鑽石固定在金屬圓板上，再
利用鑽石刺入拋光墊中進而移除拋光墊材
料。金屬圓板材料的選擇以不銹鋼為主，圓
半徑大小則根據不同化學機械拋光機台的設
計而有不同。 
 
圖一 毛刷型修整器(左)，傳統型修整器(右) 
 
為了達到晶圓加工量產的需求及維持品
質的穩定性，必須利用鑽石修整器（Diamond 
dresser）在化學機械拋光的過程中適時地對
拋光墊進行修整，除了移除表面之拋光副產
物(Glazing)，恢復拋光墊的粗糙面，改善其
容納漿料的能力，並恢復拋光墊表面的孔洞
及其把持、運送拋光液之能力，如此可以節
省拋光墊成本，並可達到晶圓量產時品質穩
定的需求。圖二為鈍化的拋光墊經過修整後
之恢復原有表面形貌之示意圖。修整器決定
了晶圓與拋光墊的接觸面積及接觸壓力，也
決定了晶圓拋光的效率及平坦化的品質，在
電子及光電產業上具有實用性、商業性、前
瞻性。 
 
圖二 拋光墊表面修整狀況 
 
本研究計畫的目的改進傳統鑽石碟的缺
點，發展出一體成型的新型 CVD 鑽石修整
器，利用半導體蝕刻製程製作矽母膜，再沉
積 CVD鑽石薄膜，最後再翻膜得到金字塔形
狀的鑽石修整器，新型的 CVD鑽石修整器除
了抗腐蝕、抗磨耗的特色外，更可以避免有
掉鑽石顆粒的危險，等高度均勻等特性，可
以解決現有鑽石修整器的不耐腐蝕、脫粒及
高度不均等缺點。 
 
三、結果與討論 
(一) 鑽石陣列微結構製程探討 
1. 矽晶圓非等向性蝕刻： 
由圖三左圖可說明，利用 KOH蝕刻劑來
蝕刻矽晶片造成非等向性倒金字塔型蝕刻
槽，而每一個倒金字塔的頂點的角度為
109.5。。圖三右圖為在矽晶片表面上蝕刻出
陣列圖形結構的矽膜仁，並且每一蝕刻槽的
大小及間距均一致。 
  
圖三 倒金字塔型蝕刻槽 
 
2. HFCVD鍍鑽石薄膜： 
    第一階段即將完成的矽膜仁置於
HFCVD反應爐內，以熱燈絲方式將甲烷及氫
氣分解形成碳原子，並以化學氣相沉積方式
沉積鑽石膜於矽膜仁表面及蝕刻槽內，如圖
四(左)所示。從圖四(右)可發現 V型蝕刻槽側
面倒金字塔的高度約為 73μm，而沉積鑽石
薄膜的厚度大約為 20μm左右，並且鍍膜的
厚度大小均一致。 
 4
CVD修整器均對壓克力已充分的實施修
整，從兩者修整的壓克力外緣便可發現，且
兩者的透光度皆較 30秒時較差，代表兩者的
鑽石均可對拋光墊不斷實施修整，導致拋光
墊的每一區域皆受到修整，相對表面的粗糙
度值也將逐步降低，如圖 3.21所示。 
 
圖九 PMMA修整 30秒之表面形貌 
 
圖十 PMMA修整 2分鐘之表面形貌 
 
四、計畫成果自評 
    本計畫分為兩階段，第一階段以半導體
蝕刻技術製作 CVD鑽石修整器，第二階段將
CVD鑽石修整器應用在 CMP拋光墊修整，
比較 CVD鑽石修整器及傳統鑽石修整器修
整 IC1000拋光墊表面，觀察拋光墊表面形
貌、粗糙度及修整過程中對拋光墊移除率的
影響，透過實驗來比較出兩者鑽石修整器優
缺點，進而作為提升 CMP製程效率以及穩定
度的指標參考。實驗研究結果如下： 
(一)利用半導體蝕刻技術結合 HFCVD於矽
基板上沉積鑽石薄膜，經過翻膜可得到金字
塔型的鑽石修整器。CVD鑽石修整器具有一
體成型、抗磨耗及抗化學腐蝕的特色，最重
要的一點是可避免掉鑽石顆粒的危險及鑽石
等高度(誤差小於 10 μm)等特性，可以解決
現有鑽石修整器的鑽石脫粒及高度不均等缺
點。 
(二) CVD鑽石修整器修整後之拋光墊表面
粗糙度明顯的比傳統鑽石修整器修整後的來
得小，所以在相同時間內可以達到較優異的
修整效果。此結果顯示使用 CVD修整器來修
整拋光墊，將可花費較少的修整時間，即可
達到拋光墊穩定的表面粗糙度，而拋光墊厚
度耗損速度也可以減少。  
(三) 比較兩種不同的修整器對拋光墊的修整
路徑皆是呈圓周運動方式。修整初始，傳統
鑽石修整器修整路徑之刮痕已可清楚呈現，
並且刮痕的深度及大小皆不相同，而 CVD修
整器修整路徑之刮痕則明顯較為細緻、均
勻，表示 CVD修整器的金字塔鑽石尖點可全
部被利用。雖兩者修整器表面的鑽石雖然都
是以陣列方式排列，但 CVD修整器的鑽石則
大大改良傳統鑽石修整器之缺點，修整後原
有的孔洞仍以保持且較無異常突起的纖毛。 
 (四) 鑽石高度較不均等的傳統修整器修
整 5分鐘時，是由少數高度分佈不平均的鑽
石先與拋光墊接觸，因此刺入拋光墊的深度
較深而有較高的拋光墊移除率。隨著時間的
增加拋光墊移除率卻隨之遞減，因此穩定性
不足。CVD修整器的鑽石高度相同，雖然拋
光墊移除率的起始值不高，但後續卻能保持
穩定。在拋光墊移除率與晶圓移除率大致成
正比的情況下，使用鑽石等高度的 CVD鑽石
修整器可以獲得穩定的晶圓移除率，達到
CMP製程穩定的要求。 
(五) CVD鑽石修整器可將鈍化拋光墊刻劃
出細緻且規則的纖毛，表面粗糙度短時間內
可達到穩定狀態，使得晶圓拋光速率增加，
有利於後續晶圓修整工作。鈍化拋光墊涵養
能力經不同的修整器修整後涵養能力均有明
顯提升，而以 CVD鑽石修整器修整效果較
佳。 
五、參考文獻 
[1]  J. A. Lee, M. Moinpour, H. C. Liou and T. Abell, 
“Proceedings of Materials Research Society,＂ 
San Francisco, CA, 2003, p. F7.4. 
[2]  International Technology Roadmap for 
Semiconductors, 2001. 
[3]  C. M. Sung, “PCD Planer for Dressing CMP 
Pads＂, 2006 CMP-MIC, Fremont, C.A, U.S. A., 
2006, p.613-616 
[4]   W. S. Lee, S. Y. Kim, Y. J. Seo and J. K. Lee, 
“An optimization of tungsten plug chemical 
mechanical polishing (CMP) using different 
consumables,＂ J. Mater. Sci.: Mater. Electron. 
Vol.12, 2001 p.63 
[5]  S. Y. Kim and Y. J. Seo, “Correlation analysis 
between pattern and non-pattern wafer for 
characterization of shallow trench 
isolation-chemical mechanical polishing 
(STI–CMP) process,＂ Microelectron. Eng. 
Vol.60, 2002, p.357. 
 
俄羅斯的 B.S. Bokstein 教授 
 
第二天：PARALLEL SESSIONS、GALA DINNER BUFFET 
 
參加 POSTER SESSION 
第三天：PARALLEL SESSIONS、CITY TOUR 
 
二、 與會心得 
    首先，感謝國科會預算支助教師出國參加國際研討會，才能有機會參與第 5 屆國際
固體及液體擴散研討會，這次與會人數近千人，算是大型國際會議，與會學者皆為材料
及工程相關領域之專家。這次的會議在論文發表及學術討論的過程相當順利及圓滿，但
是負責承辦這個研討會的工作人員及工作態度相當散漫，所有證件即發表論文證明幾乎
都是現場印製，排隊等候註冊領取資料的人幾乎失去耐性，甚至有日本的教授當場開罵，
明年我們將舉辦 ISAAT 2010 的國際研討會，值得借鏡。 
 
 
The Effect of TaN Interlayer on the Performance of Pt-Ir Protective 
Coatings in Glass Molding Process 
Hsi-Hsin Chien1,a, Kung-Jeng Ma1,b, Chien-Huang Kuo1,c, Cheng-Bang Huo2,d, 
Choung-Lii Chao2,e, and Ying-Tung Chen3,f 
1Institute of Engineering Science, Chung Hua University, No. 707, Sec. 2, Wu Fu Rd., Hsin Chu, 
Taiwan 30067. 
2Department of Mechanical and Electro-Mechanical Engineering, Tam Kang University, No.151 
Ying-Chuan Road, Tamsui, Taipei Hsien, Taiwan 251. 
3Department of Mechatronic, Energy and Aerospace Engineering, National Defense University 
ahhchien@chu.edu.tw, bma600229@ms17.hinet.net, cpots0382@yahoo.com.tw 
d694341594@s94.tku.edu.tw, eclchao@mail.tku.edu.tw, fd92522026@ntu.edu.tw 
Keywords: TaN, Pt-Ir protective coating, diffusion, glass molding 
Abstract. Glass molding process provides a great potential for mass production of precise glass 
optical components at low cost. The key issue for achieving a low production cost is to extend the 
service life of the expensive mold inserts. The precious metal based alloy is one of the coating 
materials for the molds which provide excellent glass anti-sticking results. However, the 
inter-diffusion between the WC/Co mold materials and precious metal coatings will deteriorate the 
coatings which need to be resolved. It is essentially to deposit an interlayer as the diffusion barrier to 
improve inter-diffusion problem. A thin layer of TaN was deposited on the WC/Co substrate as the 
diffusion barrier using magnetron sputtering system, and followed by the deposition of Pt-Ir layer as 
the protective layer. Low Tg Glass gobs (L-BAL 42) were placed on the coated substrate to 
investigate inter-diffusion between the substrate and coating at high temperature. The surface 
interaction between the glass gobs and protective coatings was also examined. The obtained TaN and 
Pt-Ir multilayer had dense nano-crystalline structure. High temperature wetting tests showed that the 
TaN film could effectively resist the cobalt and tungsten diffusion into the precious metal protective 
layer and, as a result, minimized the possibility of oxidation and interaction between glass and 
protective coating. The coated substrates remained good surface finish and the glass gobs stayed fully 
transparent after 6 hours reaction test at 700℃. 
Introduction 
Glass molding process provides a great potential for mass production of precise glass optical 
components at low cost [1, 2]. The key issue for achieving a low production cost is to extend the 
service life of the expensive mold inserts. To apply protective coating on the mold surface is the most 
popular method to improve the service life of the mold insert.  The materials have been selected as the 
protective coatings for molding glass coatings can be divided into four groups including [3-10]: (1) 
single layer carbides, nitrides, oxides and borides such as TiN, BN, TiAlN, NiAlN, TiBC, TiBCN, 
NiCrSiB and Al2O3 (2) nitrides or carbides based gradient and multi-layers, (3) amorphous carbon or 
diamond-like carbon and (4) precious metal based alloys. Among these coating materials, the 
precious metal based alloys are the most promising protective coating materials because they can 
provide the best high temperature oxidation resistance and glass anti-sticking results. However, the 
inter-diffusion between the sintered WC/Co mold materials and precious metal coatings will 
deteriorate the coatings which need to be resolved. It is essentially to deposit an interlayer as the 
diffusion barrier to improve inter-diffusion problem.  
Ta and TaN barrier layers have been extensively used in copper interconnection system due to 
their good diffusion barrier properties and relatively stable structure [11].  In this work, a thin layer of 
TaN was deposited on the WC/Co substrate as the diffusion barrier using magnetron sputtering 
 
 
 
  
(a)                                                         (b) 
Fig. 1  Cross-sectional SEM images of (a) Pt-Ir and (b) TaN/Pt-Ir multilayer coated substrate 
 
     
(a)                                      (b)                                              (c) 
Fig. 2  (a) Appearance of glass gob (b) surface morphology of Pt-Ir coated substrates and (c) EDX 
results of surface precipitates after 700℃/6hrs annealing test 
 
  
(a)                                              (b) 
Fig. 3  (a) Glass sticking products appears on the glass contacted surface and (b) EDX results 
 
      
(a)                                                 (b)                                                 (c) 
Fig. 4  (a) Appearance of glass gob (b) surface morphology of TaN/Pt-Ir coated substrate and (c) 
EDX results after 700℃/6hrs annealing test  
   
XRD spectra of the annealed samples are shown in Fig. 4. After 650℃/6hrs heat treatment, the 
phase structure has no significant change compared to the as deposited samples. Increasing the 
 
 
 
layer indicates that the outer layer of Pt-Ir alloy is oxygen free. The binding energies of other 
elements of W, and Co are agreed well with the values of pure element state. This indicates that no 
oxidation reaction occurs on WC/Co substrate.  
 
  
(a)                                                                       (b) 
 
Fig. 5  XPS binding energy spectrum of element (a)Ta and (b) O for TaN/Pt-Ir coated substrate after 
700℃/6hrs annealing treatment 
 
Fig. 6 shows the elements depth profile of TaN/Pt-Ir coated substrate after 700C/6hrs annealing 
treatment.  It can be observed that there are no O, Ta, Co and W to be detected in the Pt-Ir layer. With 
increasing the etching time, oxygen accompanied with Ta gradually increases their concentration.  
The Pt-Ir alloy layer is thermodynamic stable phase which can avoid oxidation at 700℃.  However, 
the oxygen from the ambient diffused through the Pt-r layer and reacted with nanocrystalline TaN to 
form Ta2O5 complex compounds.  Near the substrate, the sintered WC grains were decomposed and 
lead to the diffusion of W and C into the TaN layer.  Fortunately, the diffusion of these elements was 
effectively hindered by TaN, or complex Ta2O5 layer.  It is believed that Ta has very high affinity to 
oxygen and reacts with it and forms Ta2O5, which may increase the effectiveness of the diffusion 
barrier by decorating the extended defects such as grain boundaries, thereby blocking the active paths 
for grain boundary diffusion.    
 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
0 1000 2000 3000
A
to
m
ic
 p
er
ce
nt
 (%
)
Etch Time (s)
Atomic Percent Profile
C1s
Co2p3
Ir4f
N1s
O1s
Pt4f
Ta4f
W4f
 
Fig. 6  Elements depth profile of TaN/Pt-Ir coated substrate after 700℃/6hrs annealing treatment. 
 
The coated molding dies can extend the service life over 2000 shots in glass molding test at 
molding temperature of 580℃. The surface of both molding dies and molded lenses successfully met 
the requirements of the desired specifications. 
