摘要 
 
本文主要以數值方法模擬具渦流產生器(vortex generator)之平板型散熱器(plate fin heat 
sink)的熱流特性。數值計算是以控制體積法為基礎，並配合有限差分法及冪次法則在正交、
非等間距的交錯式格點上將各統御方程式離散成差分方程式，並且以SIMPLEC法來求解動
量方程式中壓力項與速度耦合的問題；對於紊流的運動行為與結構則是以 k- 雙方程紊流模
式來描述。 
ε
本研究主要目的是在於檢視風速與渦流產生器擺設角度對熱流場的影響情形。研究結
果顯示提高風速能使熱阻下降，但同時也會使壓降上升。此外，渦流產生器的攻角(attack 
angle)也會影響熱阻及壓降。當攻角角度為 - 時，熱阻會隨著攻角角度增加而下降；
當角度為 - 時，則現象正好相反。在攻角角度為 時熱阻最低。此外，增加攻角角
度會使壓降上升。渦流產生器可增加氣流的擾動，並且使氣流產生三維旋轉，進而促使冷
熱流體的混合而改善熱傳性能。在平板型散熱器中放置渦流產生器並配合攻角角度為
- 時可以得到最佳的熱流性能。 
o0 o45
o45 o90 o45
o0 o30
 
關鍵詞：散熱器；渦流產生器；電子冷卻；計算流體力學 
 
Abstract 
 
This study presents the numerical simulation of the plate fin heat sink with vortex generator 
and provides physical insight into the flow and heat transfer characteristics. The governing 
equations are solved by adopting a control-volume-based finite-difference method with a 
power-law scheme on an orthogonal non-uniform staggered grid. The coupling of the velocity 
and the pressure terms of momentum equations are solved by the SIMPLEC algorithm. The  
two-equations turbulence model is employed to describe the turbulent structure and behavior. 
k-ε
The objective of this study is to examine the effects of wind velocity and the configurations of 
the vortex generator design. It is seen that increasing the wind velocity decreases the thermal 
resistances. But the increasing of wind velocity increases the pressure drop. In addition, the attack 
angle of vortex generator also influences the thermal resistance and the pressure drop. With the 
range of - , the increasing of the attack angle of vortex generator decreases the thermal 
resistances. The thermal resistances increases by increasing the attack angle of vortex generator 
with the range of - . The thermal resistance for the case with attack angle of  is 
lower than those for the cases with other attack angles. Moreover, increasing the attack angle of 
vortex generator also increases the pressure drop. The vortex generator disturbs the airflow and 
makes the airflow develop into a three-dimensional screw type to enhance the mixing of the hot 
and cold fluid and improve the thermal performance. The synthetical performance of the plate fin 
heat sink with vortex generator with attack angle of -  is better than the other case. 
o0 o45
o45 o90 o45
o0 o30
 
keywords: Heat sink; Vortex generator; Electronics cooling; CFD 
 
 
 1
 3
the maximum thermal conductance were developed. Sata et al. [9] performed a numerical 
simulation on the flow and the temperature fields around a plate fin array subjected to a uniform 
flow, varying the ratio of fin length to the half-pitch of fins. The study presents a technique to 
predict the heat transfer of the fin array with an error level below 30% under practical conditions 
of electronics design. Sathe et al. [10] carried out extensive experiments to characterize the 
performance of the heat sink. The study demonstrates a computational analysis of the 
three-dimensional flow and heat transfer for two different air flow rates through the nozzle. They 
showed the utility of computational analysis in developing insights into the flow and heat transfer 
characteristics of such devices and in accurately evaluating different designs in an economical 
manner. Brignoni and Garimella [11] performed the experimental optimization of confined 
impinging air jets used in conjunction with a pin-fin heat sink. The enhancement factors for the 
heat sink relative to a bare surface were estimated. Both the average heat transfer coefficients and 
the thermal resistance were formulated for the heat sink as a function of a Reynolds number, an 
air flow rate, a pumping power, and a pressure drop, to assist in optimizing the jet impingement 
configuration for given design constraints. Maveety and Hendricks [12] investigated the 
performance of pin-fin heat sinks with impingement cooling which considered the effects of 
geometry, nozzle-to-heat sink vertical placement, material, and Reynolds numbers. The results 
showed that there is an optimal nozzle-to-sink height and Reynolds number for which the heat 
dissipation is maximized. The best performance occurred when the dimensionless impingement 
distance was between eight and twelve, and when the Reynolds number was between 40000 and 
50000. The results also showed that due to the higher spreading resistance efficiency of the 
carbon composite material, it led to more uniform cooling of the heat sink. The comparisons 
between numerical and experimental results for the cooling performance from a pin-fin heat sink 
with an impinging air flow have been studied by Maveety and Jung [13]. The optimization 
studies were also performed to quantify the effects of changing the fin shapes on the cooling 
performance. The numerical results showed the complex pressure gradients inside the fin array 
and a greater pressure gradient improved mixing and heat transfer. It also revealed that a 
complicated fluid motion with large pressure gradients generated vorticity, circulation and flow 
reversals. The performances of plate fin and pin fin heat sinks have been investigated by Jonsson 
and Palm [14] and Jonsson and Moshfegh [15]. The empirical bypass correlation has been carried 
out for difference fin design of heat sink. An approximate analytical-numerical procedure to 
model natural convection cooling of heat sinks using electronics cooling software have been 
researched by Narasimhan and Majdalani [16]. The results showed that with a small acceptable 
error, the compact approach results in substantial savings in mesh size and computing time. The 
heat transfer and pressure drop characteristics between pin-fin trapezoidal ducts with straight and 
lateral outlet flows were discussed by Hwang and Lui [17, 18]. The effect of pin arrangement for 
the ducts of different direction outlet flow was also examined. Moreover, a similarity of the pin 
Reynolds-number dependent of a row-averaged Nusselt number was carried out. An experimental 
study of the heat transfer from a parallel flat plate heat sink under a turbulent air jet impingement 
was conducted by Sansoucy et al. [19]. Their experimental results were compared with the 
numerical predictions obtained in a previous study. It was found that the numerical simulation in 
The schematic diagram of the heat sink configuration is shown in Fig. 1. The turbulent 
three-dimensional Navier-Stokes and energy equations are solved numerically (using a finite 
difference scheme) combined with the continuity equation to simulate the thermal and turbulent 
flow fields. An eddy viscosity model is used to account for the effect of turbulence. The flow is 
assumed to be steady, incompressible, and three-dimensional. The buoyancy and radiation heat 
transfer effects are neglected. In addition, the thermophysical properties of the fluid are assumed 
to be constant. 
The three-dimensional governing equations of mass, momentum, turbulent kinetic energy, 
turbulent energy dissipation rate, and energy in the steady turbulent main flow using the standard 
 model are as follows: k-ε
(1) Continuity equation 
0i
i
u
x
   (1) 
(2) Momentum equation 
ji
j t
j i j j i
uu upu i
x x x x x
                
  (2) 
(3) Energy equation 
l t
j
j j l t
Tu
j
T
x x x
   
           
  (3) 
(4) Transport equation for  k
jt i
j t
j j k j j i j
uu uk ku
x x x x x x
 i 
                      
  (4) 
(5) Transport equation for   
2
1
jt i i
j t
j j j j i j
uu uu C 2Cx x x k x x x

k
   
                       
  (5) 
The empirical constants appear in the above equations are given by the following values [32]: 
1.44, 1.92, 0.09, 1C  2C  C  k  1.0,   1.3, t  0.7 
The governing equation for the solid can be written as: 
0s
i i
Tk
x x
      
 (6) 
The thermal resistance of the heat sink is calculated by 
th
TR
Q
  (7) 
where  is the temperature difference between the highest temperature on the fin base and the 
ambient air temperature, and  is heat dissipation power applied on the fin base. 
T
Q
 5
The denotations and dimensions of the heat sinks in this study are depicted in Fig. 3 and Table 
1. The effects of the wind velocity and the attack angle of vortex generator on the thermal 
performance and the pressure drop are investigated. The parameters used in this study include 
 ( = 6.5, 8.0, 10.0 and 12.2 inU inU m s ) and the attack angle of the vortex generator   ( = 
o o o o
 
o0 , o15 , 30 ,  and ). The heating area is heated with heating power 10W
5.1 Validation and Verification 
rameters of the plate fin heat sink is the same as those in Jonsson 
and
45 , 60 90 . 
In Table 1, the geometric pa
 Moshfegh [15]. In order to verify the present numerical models, the thermal resistance and 
the pressure drop under the conditions inU = 6.5 ~ 12.2 m s  and Q = 10 W are compared with 
the available experimental results of literature [15]. The designs of p te fin heat sink with vortex 
available data for verification in the published literature. Fig. 4 shows the thermal resistance and 
the pressure drop of the plate fin heat sink. In general, it is clear that the present results have good 
agreements with the available data in the literature [15]. The deviation between simulation results 
and the data in the literature is lower than 5%. Reasonable discrepancies between numerical 
calculations and the available experimental results of the literature may be caused by the isotropic 
assumption, numerical error and experimental uncertainties. Moreover, a total number of meshes, 
58700, 90580 and 132246 were employed to assess the grid independence in the plate fin heat 
sink with vortex generator case. Fig. 5 shows the thermal resistance and the pressure drop of the 
plate fin heat sink with vortex generator ( o30  ). The results of the grid refinement study 
showed that the simulations based on the 90580 meshes provide satisfactory numerical accuracy 
and are essentially grid independent in these c
 
5.2 Effects of vortex generator on the velocity and te
la
authors’generator are extended from the plate fink heat sink. To the  knowledge, there are no 
ases. 
mperature field of the heat sink 
ig. 6 shows the velocity distribution of the plate fin heat sink and plate fin heat sink with 
 through the 
hea
 of the fins near 
the
 into a three-dimensional screw type for the case of vortex generator with 
atta
F
vortex generator respectively. From the Fig. 6(a), it is seen that the airflow passes
t sink quite smoothly. As shown in Fig. 6(b), the vortex generator perturbs the airflow and 
makes the flow in the heat sink more turbulent. This enhances the mixing of the hot and cold 
fluid in the near wall region of the fins. Moreover, the velocity of the airflow between the fins 
and vortex generator becomes faster and it enhances the heat transfer coefficient. 
Fig. 7 shows the temperature distribution of the plate fin heat sink and the plate fin heat sink 
with vortex generator respectively. As can be seen in the figures, the temperature
 vortex generator is much lower than the other regions. The whole temperature field of the 
plate fin heat sink with vortex generator is lower than the plate fin heat sink. This is due to the 
fast airflow near the vortex generator and the turbulent airflow enhances the mixing of the hot 
and cold fluid in the near wall region of the fins. The heat dissipated more efficiently in the near 
wall region of the fins. 
The three-dimensional particle tracks between the fins are shown in Fig. 8. It can be seen that 
the streamlines develop
ck angle of o15 - o60 . The three-dimensional screw type streamlines induce the longitudinal 
 7
 9
cto be
take more heat dissipation away than the plate fin heat sink when the 
The present numerical calculation provides valuable inform on on the plate fin heat sink 
erator. The results indicate that increasing wind velocity could reduce the thermal 
.M. Chung, K.H. Luo, Unsteady Heat Transfer Analysis of an mpinging Jet, Journal of Heat 
2002) 1039-1048. 
et Flow, International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow 17 (1996) 
lied Thermal Engineering 23 (2003) 1137-1144. 
of Heat and Mass Transfer 43 (2000) 
 Fins Using a Heat Pipe, International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer 40 (13) 
o60 , the comparison of the profit fa r tween the plate fin heat sink with vortex generator and 
plate fin heat sink appeared to be minimal. The effect of the vortex generator on the profit factor 
apparent. When the attack angle of the vortex generator is o90 , the vortex generator caused 
the large pressure to drop. The vortex generator failed to improve the synthetical performance. 
On the contrary, the profit factor of the plate fin heat sink with vortex generator is lower than that 
of the plate fin heat sink. 
Fig. 10 reveals that the plate fin heat sink with vortex generator is superior to the plate fin 
heat sink and that it can 
is un
pum
resi
] Y
ping power is the same. With the suitable attack angle, the vortex generator can induce the 
flow perturbations to enhance the heat transfer rate without excessive pressure drop. Therefore, 
utilizing the plate fin heat sink with vortex generator can make the volume of air-cooling 
apparatus smaller. Moreover, the vortex generator with attack angle of o0 - o30  have better 
synthetical performance. 
 
6. Conclusion 
ati
 I
with vortex gen
stance and increase the pressure drop simultaneously. The thermal resistance of the plate fin 
heat sink with vortex generator is lower than the plate fin heat sink at the same wind velocity but 
the pressure drop of the plate fin heat sink with vortex generator is much higher than the plate fin 
heat sink. The vortex generator perturbs the airflow and makes the flow in the heat sink more 
turbulent. The streamlines develop into a three-dimensional screw type for the case of vortex 
generator with attack angle of o15 - o60 . The three-dimensional screw type streamlines enhancing 
the mixing of the hot and cold fluid and improving the thermal performance. Moreover, the 
synthetical performance of the plate fin heat sink with vortex generator with the adapted attack 
angle is superior to the plate fin heat sink. The synthetical performance of the plate fin heat sink 
with vortex generator with attack angle of o0 - o30  is better than the other case. 
 
7. Reference 
[1
Transfer 124 (
[2] K. Nishino, M. Samada, K. Kasuya, K. Torii, Turbulence Statistics in the Stagnation Region 
of an Axisymmetric Impinging J
193-201. 
[3] K.S. Kim, M.H. Won, J.W. Kim, B.J. Back, Heat Pipe Cooling Technology for Desktop PC 
CPU, App
[4] Y. Wang, K. Vafai, An Experimental Investigation of the Thermal Performance of an 
Asymmetrical Flat Plate Heat Pipe, International Journal 
2657-2668. 
[5] Z. Zhao, C.T. Avedisian, Enhancing Forced Air Convection Heat Transfer from an Array of 
Parallel Plate
 11
 on the Orthogonal Arrays, International Communications in Heat 
ow, International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer 51 
ink, Journal of Electronic Packaging 126 (2004) 528-534. 
 Transactions on 
 (2006) 311-318. 
f Electronic 
 Length and Cross-Section, Heat Transfer Engineering 29 (6) 
ink, Journal of Xi’an Jiaotong University 37 (4) (2003) 670-673 (in Chinese). 
ring 25 (2005) 
stics of Plate-Pin Fin Oil Cooler, Design & Manufacture of Diesel Engine 14 (4) (2005) 
. Ramsey, C.A.C. Altemani, Experiments on In-line Pin Fin Arrays and 
a. The numerical simulations of the plate fin heat sink with vortex generator have been 
e academic contributions and provide the references 
 b. T
nd the applications of conjugate heat transfer. It also can enhance the research 
the Grey-Fuzzy Logic Based
and Mass Transfer 33 (2006) 744-752. 
[22] T.M. Jeng, A Porous Model for the Square Pin-Fin Heat Sink Situated in a Rectangular 
Channel with Laminar Side-Bypass Fl
(2008) 2214-2226. 
[23] S.B. Sathe, B.G. Sammakia, An Analytical Study of the Optimized Performance of an 
Impingement Heat S
[24] A. Shah, B.G. Sammakia, H. Srihari, K. Ramakrishna, A Numerical Study of the Thermal 
Performance of an Impingement Heat Sink-Fin Shape Optimization, IEEE
Components and Packaging Technologies 27 (4) (2004) 710-717. 
[25] A. Shah, B.G. Sammakia, K. Srihari, K. Ramakrishna, Optimization Study for a Parallel 
Plate Impingement Heat Sink, Journal of Electronic Packaging 128
[26] O. Leon, G.D. Mey, E. Dick, J. Vierendeels, Comparison Between the Standard and 
Staggered Layout for Cooling Fins in Forced Convection Cooling, Journal o
Packaging 125 (2003) 442-446. 
[27] H.S. Kou, J.J. Lee, C.W. Chen, Optimum Thermal Analysis of a Heat Sink with Various Fin 
Cross-Sections by Adjusting Fin
(2008) 537-545. 
[28] X.L. Yu, Q.K. Feng, Q.P. Liu, Research on the Heat Transfer and Flow Performance of a 
Composite Heat S
[29] X.L. Yu, Q.K. Feng, J.M. Feng, Research on Thermal Performance of Plate-Pin Fin Heat 
Sink, Journal of Xi’an Jiaotong University 38 (11) (2004) 1114-1148 (in Chinese). 
[30] X.L. Yu, J.M. Feng, Q.K. Feng, Q.W. Wang, Development of a Plate-Pin Fin Heat Sink and 
Its Performance Comparisons with a Plate Fin Heat Sink, Applied Thermal Enginee
173-182. 
[31] Y.H. Zhao, C.X. Chai, Z.M. Luo, Numerical Simulation Study on Heat Transfer 
Characteri
13-15 (in Chinese). 
[32] D.C. Wilcox, Turbulence Modeling for CFD, DCW Industries Inc., La Canada, CA, 1993. 
[33] E.M. Sparrow, J.W
Performance Comparisons with Staggered Arrays, Journal of Heat Transfer 102 (1980) 44-50. 
[34] J.P. Van Doormaal, F.D. Raithby, Enhancements of the SIMPLE Method for Predicting 
Incompressible Fluid Flows, Numerical Heat Transfer 7 (1984) 147-163. 
[35] S.V. Patankar, Numerical Heat Transfer and Fluid Flow, McGraw-Hill, New York, 1980. 
 
8. Self-evaluations of the research results 
 
presented. The research results have th
of design. 
he research work can help the research assistants to study the numerical methods, turbulence 
modeling a
  
Table 1 Dimensions of the heat sinks 
H (mm) h (mm) b (mm) L (mm) t (mm) a (mm) s (mm)  ( ) o
10 5 3 51 1.5 3 1 0~90 
 
 13
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 3 Denotations of the plate fin heat sink with vortex generator 
 
 15
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 6 Velocity distribution in the  case at 30o  8.0m sUin  , mm: 4y 
(a) plate fin heat sink, (b) plate fin heat sink with vortex generator 
 17
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8 Three-dimensional particle tracks between the fins ( 7y  mm, 8.0m sinU  ): 
(a) , (b) , (c) , (d) , (e) , (f)  0o  15o  30o  45o  60o  90o 
 19
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 10 Trend of synthetical performance. 
 
 21
