H.-W. Fang et al. / Materials Chemistry and Physics 95 (2006) 280–288 281
responses caused by various particle sizes and shapes [18]. It
was observed that elongated particles induce stronger biolog-
ical response indicated by the pouch thickness and released
cytokines. Smaller particles within the phagocytosable range
stimulate higher immunological response [16–18]. A bio-
physical analysis of phagocytosis process pointed out that the
phagocytosis capacity of the macrophage cells is a function
of particle size and shape [18]. Compared to spherical particle
with the same volume, elongated particles have larger surface
area and occupy more phagocytosis capacity. It provides the
explanation of particle shape effect on bioactivity.
Once the effects of particle size and shape on biologi-
cal response are understood, it is possible to enhance the
life of total joint replacement by reducing the production
of the most toxic particle populations in terms of size and
shape. Our idea is to apply surface textures on the articulat-
ing surface of joint implant in order to control the size and
shape of UHMWPE wear particles. While maintaining a low
wear rate of UHMWPE parts, further reduction of the most
“toxic” particles released into human body shall prevent par-
ticles induced osteolysis. Our previous studies have revealed
the feasibility to control the UHMWPE wear particle mor-
phology in water. In the present study, we further explore
the relationship between the UHMWPE particle morphology
and surface texture dimensions under a biological lubricating
condition. By comparing the generation of UHMWPE par-
ticles with microfabricated surfaces in the water and in the
bovine serum, the effect of biofluid lubrication on the particle
size and shape will be elucidated. The results can assist the
design of the surface textures on the articulating surface of
the total joint implants.
2. Materials and methods
A linear reciprocating wear tests was carried out in this
study. Articulating materials are UHMWPE and textured sur-
face of silicon. Original and highly cross-linked UHMWPE
were tested under water and bovine serum lubricating con-
ditions. The generated wear particles were isolated and
characterized. The details of materials, wear process, par-
ticle collection and particle characterization procedures are
described below.
2.1. Materials
Raw GUR1050 UHMWPE and highly cross-linked
GUR 1050 UHMWPE materials obtained from United
Orthopaedic Corporation, Taiwan were used in this study.
UHMWPE cylinder pins were machined to 6.35 mm in diam-
eter and 25.4 mm in length with diamond turning on both
end surfaces without polishing. The mean roughness (Ra)
of UHMWPE pins’ end surface is 0.82m. Purified water
(deionized, filtered with a 0.1m pore size membrane, and
double distilled) and bovine calf serum were two lubricants
used in the experiments. All UHMWPE pins were presoaked
in water or in serum for at least 15 days so as to become
completely saturation with the immersed lubricant in the
experiment.
2.2. Microfabrication of surface textures
Texturing of the silicon wafer surface was achieved by
photolithography patterning and etching of the bulk substrate
[18]. A flow chart of the fabrication process is shown in
Fig. 1. The detailed procedures and equipments have been
described in a previous publication [16]. Two-inch diameter
polished type P silicon wafers with (1 0 0) orientation were
purchased from Summit-Tech and used as the base mate-
rial for the texturing process. Wet oxidation of the silicon
wafers was carried out in a glass-tube oven at 1100 ◦C for
135 min to form a silicon dioxide film with a thickness of
1m. A pattern of rectangles with different size and aspect
ratios were formed on a chrome direct-writing photomask.
The silicon dioxide surface was spin coated with a Ship-
ley 1813 positive photoresist. The dark-featured photomask
was then placed on the photoresist surface and exposed to
a UV source in a mask aligner to decompose the surround-
ing polymer surface leaving a positive rectangular pattern.
The decomposed photoresist polymer was then removed in
a Shipley 351 developer. The resulting positive photoresist
surface was then etched first with a BOE solution (diluted
buffer HF solution) to etch away the SiO2 in a wet chem-
ical bath. The photoresist was then removed by washing
with acetone-alcohol. Subsequently, the silicon material was
subjected to isotropic silicon etching (HNA etchant; liq-
uid volume ratio HF:HNO3:CH3COOH = 8:75:17) in a wet
chemical bath at room temperature. The SiO2 layer was
removed after an isotropic undercutting etching process.
The resulting surface features are an array of rectangular
ridges with sharp edges. Finally, a layer of 5 nm Cr coat-
ing was evaporated onto the surface to increase the strength
and wear resistance of the surface texture. The height of
the surface textures were measured by a Mahr profilometer
and the feature length and width were measured from SEM
observations.
2.3. Particle generation by a wear process
A linear reciprocating wear test was applied to generate
UHMWPE wear particles. ASTM F732 was used as a guide-
line [19]. The setup of the system is shown schematically
in Fig. 2. One UHMWPE pin and three control pins were
weighed three times. Three control pins were soaked in the
lubricant at the same liquid level as the wear-testing con-
dition. The UHMWPE pin was then mounted on the tester.
Linear reciprocating wear tests were run under a nominal
contact pressure of 3 MPa, a stroke length of 19 mm, a fre-
quency of 1.5 Hz, and an average sliding speed of 57.2 mm/s
for 4 h. After wear testing, the four pins were weighed and
the wear loss of the testing pin was obtained after adjusting
the weight change from the control pins.
H.-W. Fang et al. / Materials Chemistry and Physics 95 (2006) 280–288 283
sion of NIH Image) to measure their dimensions. Measure-
ments were made for at least 300 particles in each case. The
chemical composition of collected particles was confirmed
to be polyethylene by FTIR measurements (Nicolet) [16].
3. Results
3.1. Microfabricated surface textures
Surface textures with various dimensions of cutting edges
and distances between features have been microfabricated.
Fig. 3 shows the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images
of three surface textures used in this study. Table 1 lists the
critical dimensions of the cutting-edges on the surfaces.
Table 1
Surface-feature dimensions of microfabricated surface textures
Surface A Surface B Surface C
Feature length (m) 56.0 15.6 5.2
Feature width (m) 4.6 4.8 4.8
Feature height (m) 2.1 2.0 2.1
Distance between
features (in sliding
direction) (m)
100 100 100
3.2. Effects of lubricants
SEM images of wear particles of raw UHMWPE gener-
ated with microfabricated surface textures (surfaces A, B,
and C shown in Fig. 3) under water and serum lubricating
Fig. 3. SEM images of microfabricated surface textures.
H.-W. Fang et al. / Materials Chemistry and Physics 95 (2006) 280–288 285
Fig. 5. Wear particles of raw and highly cross-linked UHMWPE generated in water (surface A).
Fig. 6. Wear particles of raw and highly cross-linked UHMWPE generated in serum (surfaces A and B).
the lubricants from water to serum. On the other hand, the
particles generated in serum were found to be more elon-
gated with larger particle aspect ratios as shown in Table 2.
It was seen that the same trend was also observed on the
highly cross-linked UHMWPE. For example, the mean par-
ticle lengths of highly cross-linked UHMWPE wear parti-
cles generated with surface B in water and in serum are
17.4 ± 5.3 and 1.0 ± 0.4m, respectively. The highly cross-
linked UHMWPE particles generated in serum has a higher
aspect ratio of 2.5 ± 1.3 than the aspect ratio of 2.1 ± 0.8 for
the particles generated in water. In general, both lengths and
widths of the particles are decreased and the morphology of
the particles is more fiber-like under the serum lubricating
condition.
Table 2
Particle length and aspect ratio of raw UHMWPE particles generated in water and in serum
Surface A Surface B Surface C
In water In serum In water In serum In water In serum
Particle length (m) 29.1 ± 9.1 9.8 ± 3.1 18.1 ± 4.8 3.4 ± 1.2 7.4 ± 2.9 0.8 ± 0.4
Aspect ratio 3.5 ± 1.5 4.6 ± 2.2 1.9 ± 0.7 2.3 ± 1.1 2.2 ± 0.5 2.3 ± 1.0
H.-W. Fang et al. / Materials Chemistry and Physics 95 (2006) 280–288 287
Fig. 9. Schematic diagram of the chain orientation of UHMWPE.
of shear motions. The highly cross-linked UHMWPE has a
stronger molecular bonding. Higher degree of cross-linking
may reduce the degree of molecular orientation change under
applied stresses. Under a linear reciprocating wear test, the
x-PE may behave more brittle and the material tends to
break easily. Therefore, highly cross-linked UHMWPE has a
better wear resistance and a more isotropic material proper-
ties. Under a micro-cutting process, smaller and more round
wear particles were observed on the highly cross-linked
UHMWPE regardless using water or serum as lubricants.
4.4. Tribochemistry issues
The role of biological lubricants on controlling of the wear
particle morphology should be further illustrated in order to
facilitate the surface texturing techniques on the articulating
surface of artificial joints in vivo. The major components of
the synovial fluid of the joint (biological lubricant) include
albumin, globulin, lipids and hyaluronic acid. Under the artic-
ulating of the joints, the synovial fluid is squeezed and forms
a boundary molecular layer responsible for the lubricating of
the joints. The adsorption strength of the molecules and the
tribochemical reaction of the molecules are the factors affect-
ing the wear and wear particle formation of the materials. Liao
et al. has studied the thermal effects on the serum protein con-
tents and [23] Heuberger et al. has discussed the modification
of the albumin conformation due to the tribological thermal
effect [24]. The adsorption of the related proteins on artic-
ulating surface has been investigated and measured [24,25].
Wong et al. indicated that the micro-cutting phenomenon of
particle generation is an abrasion process related to the low-
cycle fatigue [26]. However, the biological lubricant plays
a role transferring the friction work to the materials during
the articulation. Different physical and chemical properties
of lubricant may influence the amount of the work transferred
to the materials and contribute to the low cycle fatigue. Thus
the variance of particle size and shape can be expected due
to different biological lubricant used.
However, by introducing the surface textures to the artic-
ulating surface of the joints, uniform normal and shear stress
distribution are created on the material surface, we need to
further investigate the thermal and mechanical effects on the
modification of the synovial fluid. Thus further design of the
surface pattern of the joint surface to control the size and
shape of the wear particles may become possible. It is nec-
essary to further obtain the correlations between the surface
dimensions and particle morphology in order to establish the
design guidelines of the articulating surface of joint implant
to avoid particles-induced osteolysis.
5. Conclusions
To sum up, by using the microfabricated surface textures,
a narrow distribution of the particles has been achieved. It
demonstrates the ability to control the particle size and shape
by the dimensions of the surface textures. It is observed that
the length of the particle generated in serum is smaller than the
particle generated in water. The particle generated in serum
has a larger aspect ratio. Under the lubrication of bovine
serum, both length and width of the wear particle shrinks. We
have preliminarily observed the effect of biofluid lubrication
effect on UHMWPE particle morphology with microfabri-
cated surface textures.
Acknowledgements
The authors are pleased to acknowledge the financial sup-
port of the National Science Council (NSC 92-2218-E-027-
013-, and NSC 93-2213-E-027-010-), Taiwan. Special thanks
to Precision Instrument Development Center, Hsin-Chu, Tai-
wan for their assistance on microfabrication processes.
References
[1] W.H. Harris, The problem is osteolysis, Clin. Orthop. Res. 311
(1995) 46–53.
[2] H.C. Amstutz, P. Campbell, N. Kossovsky, I.C. Clarke, Mechanism
and clinical significance of wear debris-induced osteolysis, Clin.
Orthop. Res. 276 (1992) 7–18.
[3] W.J. Maloney, R.L. Smith, Periprosthetic osteolysis in total hip
arthroplasty: the role of particulate wear debris, J. Bone Joint Surg.
77A (1995) 1448–1461.
[4] T.R. Green, J. Fisher, M. Stone, B.M. Wroblewski, E. Ingham,
Polyethylene particles of a ‘critical size’ are necessary for the induc-
tion of cytokines by macrophages in vitro, Biomaterials 19 (1998)
2297–2302.
[5] A.S. Shanbhag, C.T. Hasselman, H.E. Rubash, Technique for gener-
ating submicron ultra high molecular weight polyethylene particles,
J. Orthop. Res. 14 (1996) 1000–1004.
[6] M. Allen, F. Brett, P. Millett, N. Rushton, The effects of particulate
polyethylene at a weight bearing bone-implant interface, J. Bone
Joint Surg. 78B (1996) 32–37.
[7] S.B. Goodman, P. Huie, Y. Song, D. Schurman, W. Maloney, S.
Woolson, R. Sibley, Cellular profile and cytokine production at pros-
thetic interfaces, J. Bone Joint Surg. 80B (1998) 531–539.
[8] D.W. Howie, B. Vernon-Roberts, R. Oakeshott, B. Manthey, A rat
model of resorption of bone at the cement-bone interface in the
presence of polyethylene wear particles, J. Bone Joint Surg. 70A
(1998) 257–263.
Preparation of UHMWPE particles and establishment
of inverted macrophage cell model to investigate
wear particles induced bioactivites
Hsu-Wei Fang a,⁎, Yi-Ching Ho a, Charng-Bin Yang b,c,
Hsuan-Liang Liu a, Fang-Yuan Ho d, Yung-Chang Lu d,
Hon-Ming Ma d, Chun-Hsiung Huang d
a Department of Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology, and Institute of Biotechnology,
National Taipei University of Technology, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC
b Department of Orthopaedics, Taipei City Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC
c Institute of Biomedical Engineering, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC
d Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, and Biomechanics Research Laboratory,
Mackay Memorial Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC
Received 27 April 2006; received in revised form 22 May 2006; accepted 27 May 2006
Abstract
Total joint replacement surgery has been widely applied to patients with severe osteoarthritis.
Aseptic loosening induced by wear particles generated during joint movement is the major reason
causing the failure of joint implants. Interaction of ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene
(UHMWPE) wear particles with macrophages stimulates the release of inflammatory cytokines and
leads to bone resorption and osteolysis. Effect of UHMWPE particle size and shape on the
bioactivities remains unclear due to the lack of particles with controlled morphology as well as
adequate in-vitro cell culture models for further investigations. We have developed a micro-cutting
procedure to generate UHMWPE particles with desired sizes and shapes by rubbing UHMWPE with
microfabricated surfaces. A narrow distribution and sterility of the generated particles was achieved.
An inverted cell culturing apparatus and procedures were created and the contact between particles and
macrophage cells was observed. No significant difference of the cell proliferations under normal and
inverted positions further demonstrates the feasibility of the system. This newly developed platform
J. Biochem. Biophys. Methods 68 (2006) 175–187
www.elsevier.com/locate/jbbm
⁎ Corresponding author. Department of Chemical Engineering, Mail stop 2521, National Taipei University of
Technology, 1, Sec. 3, Chung-Hsiao E. Road, Taipei, Taiwan 106, ROC. Tel.: +886 930380200; fax: +886 227418575.
E-mail address: hwfang@ntut.edu.tw (H.-W. Fang).
0165-022X/$ - see front matter © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/j.jbbm.2006.05.011
generated from a wear process. The significance of this issue cannot be ignored for linking the in-
vivo or in-vitro study results to clinical situations.
To overcome the hurdles mentioned above, the purpose of this work is to develop a platform to
investigate the UHMWPEwear particles induced biological responses. A novel inverted cell culture
system has been developed to enable the interactions between cells and polyethylene particles. In
addition, a unique procedure has been established to generate UHMWPEwear particles with various
sizes and shapes. This newly developed platform can assist in the further understanding of the
mechanism and therapy strategies of osteolysis induced by polyethylene particles.
2. Materials and methods
A micro-cutting process has been facilitated to generate UHMWPE wear particles. Fig. 1 is a
schematic of the concept. Cutting edges on the surface were designed and microfabricated. The
articulation between UHMWPE and the textured surface was carried out by a wear tester to generate
UHMWPE particles with specific size and shape. The generated UHMWPE wear particles were
collected and applied in a newly developed inverted cell culture system. The detailed procedures of
UHMWPE particle preparation and inverted cell culture are described below:
2.1. Microfabrication of textured surfaces
The silicon wafer surface with micrfo-cutting edges was prepared by photolithography
patterning and etching of the bulk substrate. A schematic of themicrofabrication process is shown in
Fig. 2. Wedge-shaped features on the surface have been designed for the micro-cutting process to
generate UHMWPE particles [17–20]. The surface pattern parameters were designed on the
photomask. The details of the surface-texture design principles have been described previously [20].
Two-inch diameter polished type P silicon wafers with (100) orientation were purchased from
Summit-Tech and used as the base material for the texturing process. Wet oxidation of the silicon
wafers was carried out in a glass-tube oven at 1100 °C for 135min to form a silicon dioxide filmwith
a thickness of 1 μm. A pattern of rectangles with different sizes and aspect ratios were formed on a
chrome direct-writing photomask. The silicon dioxide surface was spin coated with a Shipley 1813
positive photoresist. The dark-featured photomask was then placed on the photoresist surface and
exposed to a UV source in a mask aligner to decompose the surrounding polymer surface leaving a
positive rectangular pattern. The decomposed photoresist polymer was then removed in a Shipley
351 developer. The resulting positive photoresist surface was then etched first with a BOE solution
(diluted buffer HF solution) to etch away the SiO2 in a wet chemical bath. The photoresist was then
removed by washing with acetone–alcohol. Subsequently, the silicon material was subjected to
isotropic silicon etching (HNA etchant; liquid volume ratio HF:HNO3:CH3COOH=8:75:17) in a
wet chemical bath at room temperature. The SiO2 layer was removed after an isotropic undercutting
etching process. The resulting surface features are an array of rectangular ridges with sharp edges.
Finally, a layer of 5 nmCr coating was evaporated onto the surface to increase the strength andwear
resistance of the surface texture. The height of the surface textures was measured by a Mahr
profilometer and the feature length and width were measured from SEM observations.
2.2. Articulating materials
Raw GUR1050 UHMWPE materials obtained from the United Orthopaedic Corporation,
Taiwan were used in this study. UHMWPE cylinder pins were machined to 6.35 mm in diameter
177H.-W. Fang et al. / J. Biochem. Biophys. Methods 68 (2006) 175–187
condition. Prior to the test, all parts involved in the experiments were immersed overnight at room
temperature in a solution containing 70% ethanol and 30% purified water (volume ratio) for
sterilization purposes. The UHMWPE pin was then mounted on the tester. Linear reciprocating
wear tests were run under a nominal contact pressure of 3 MPa, a stroke length of 19 mm, a
frequency of 1.5 Hz, and an average sliding speed of 57.2 mm/s. After wear testing, the four pins
were weighed and the wear loss of the testing pin was obtained after adjusting the weight change
from the control pins.
2.4. Collection and analysis of wear particles
After the wear tests, the UHMWPE particles generated in water were collected by repeated
rinsing of the sample, sample holder, and parts that came into contact with the particles, into a
sterilized beaker. The procedure has been optimized to achieve a 90% particle recovery rate [17].
To collect the particles generated in albumin solution, 5 N NaOH solution was used to digest the
albumin and to reduce the endotoxin content in a 65 °C water bath for 24 h. The digested solution
was then collected into a sterilized beaker. The UHMWPE particles suspended in water were then
collected on a 0.1 μm pore size membrane through a vacuum filtration process. Due to particle
generation carried out by rubbing the Cr coated silicon surface textures with UHMWPE, there may
exist residual Cr ions in the solution and stimulate the biological response which has been indicated
previously [22]. Thus, a large quantity of endotoxin free purified water was applied to rinse and
flush out any possible contaminants.
For particle analysis purpose, purified isopropyl alcohol (0.1 μm filtered) was added and the
particles were dispersed in an ultrasonic water bath for 3 min. Particles that were dispersed well in
a known volume of the solution were collected on a 0.1 μm pore size membrane through a
vacuum filtration process. The particles collected on the filter paper were examined by using a
scanning electron microscope. Micrographs of the particles were then analyzed by using image
analyzer software (Scion Image, a PC version of NIH Image) to measure their dimensions.
Measurements were made for at least 300 particles in each case. The particles were tested to be
Fig. 2. Schematic of the microfabrication process to generate cutting edge features on silicon.
179H.-W. Fang et al. / J. Biochem. Biophys. Methods 68 (2006) 175–187
2.5. Inverted cell culturing procedures
A schematic of the inverted cell culturing procedure is shown in Fig. 3(a). Mouse macrophage
cell line J774A.1 was cultured in DMEM medium with 10% fetal bovine serum. 1 ml of culture
medium and 3×105 cells was added into each well of a normal 24-well culture plate. It was
incubated with 37 °C, 5 % CO2 for 24 h to make the cells adhere to the bottom surface. UHMWPE
wear particles were suspended in the culture medium. UHMWPE particle suspension was sampled
Fig. 4. SEM images of two surface textures and UHMWPE wear particles generated in water and in albumin solution. The
dimensions of the surface features and the size and shape of the particles are shown in Table 1.
181H.-W. Fang et al. / J. Biochem. Biophys. Methods 68 (2006) 175–187
purified water and in albumin solution. Table 1 lists the dimensions of the cutting edges on the
surfaces aswell as the size and shape of the generatedUHMWPEparticles. The particle length can be
controlled by the cutting edge on the surface and the particle width can be controlled by the cutting
edge depth, sliding speed of applied normal load during the wear tests. UHMWPE particles were
further utilized in the inverted cell culture system to prove its feasibility.
3.2. Macrophage proliferation
Macrophage cells incubated under normal and inverted positions were compared. As shown in
Fig. 5, there is no significant difference in cell proliferation between normal and inverted culturing
procedures. It indicates that inverted culturing may not influence cell proliferation and it can be a
practical method to investigate cells and particles interaction. Microscopic images of Fig. 6 shows
that the newly developed inverted cell culture system enable the contact between macrophage cells
and wear particles.
Viability of the macrophage cells incubated with UHMWPE wear particles generated with
surface textures B in water are shown in Fig. 7. Results from different ratios of particle number to
cell number were compared. Culturing of macrophage cells without UHMWPE is treated as
Fig. 6. Optical microscope images for (a) J744A.1 mouse macrophage cells (M); (b) UHMWPE particles (dark dots) were
internalized in the macrophage cells (MP).
Fig. 5. Cell viability of macrophages incubated under normal and inverted positions without particles. No significant
difference between them was observed.
183H.-W. Fang et al. / J. Biochem. Biophys. Methods 68 (2006) 175–187
4. Discussion
By using the microfabricated surfaces articulating with UHMWPE, generation of narrowly
distributed UHMWPE wear particles has been achieved. This outcome enables the further
investigation of the effects of particle size and shape on biological responses. Once the effects of
particle size and shape on biological response are understood, it is possible to enhance the life of
total joint replacement by reducing the production of the most toxic particle populations in terms
of size and shape. The strategy to control the particle size and shape has been revealed in a
previous study [20]. We learned that the length of the cutting edge on the surface controls the
length of the generated particle. The particle length is about 80% of the cutting edge length. The
aspect ratio of the particle can be controlled by the combination of particle length and particle
width control. A smaller normal load, smaller cutting edge height or a higher sliding speed results
in the larger aspect ratio of the generated particles. The penetration depth of the cutting edge is
determined by the applied normal load and the cutting edge height. A larger penetration depth or
lower sliding speed leads to a larger particle width.
Since sub-micrometer round particles and micrometer-sized elongated particles are the
presenting particle populations from clinical retrieval studies, the question is whether this
technique is also capable of producing different sizes and shapes in the sub-micrometer range.
There exists difficulty to generate sub-micrometer UHMWPE particles in water. Therefore, a
biological lubricant such as albumin solution was selected and used to control the morphology of
generated particles. In another study, the biological lubricants including serum or albumin
solutions have been also proved to achieve the generation of sub-micrometer UHMWPE wear
particles [19].
To sum up, the wear particles generated in this study have been measured as endotoxin free and
no cytotoxicity. Wear particles collected after the tests can be reserved for animal or cell culture
tests directly. When a new articulating orthopaedic implant (e.g. artificial joint, spinal disc) is
developed, a simulative wear testing is performed to measure the wear rate and wear particle
morphology. An animal test of the major population of the wear particles is required for the pre-
clinical reviewing stage. The method presented in this study can assist to prepare sufficient
amounts of wear particles with the correct particle size and shape. It makes the investigation of
particle size and shape effects on biological responses feasible. By combining with the cell culture
or animal models of osteolysis, further studies can be performed to study the mechanisms or the
therapeutic strategies of the particles induced diseases. More efforts should also be made to apply
this concept to other articulating biomedical materials.
Fig. 5 shows no significant difference in cell proliferation between normal and inverted
culturing procedures. It demonstrates the macrophage cell proliferation does not change due to the
incubation position. The contact of wear particles with the macrophage cells was directly observed
by the co-culturing of macrophage cells and UHMWPE wear particles in the inverted cell culture
setup. It indicates that this newly-developed culturing procedure is appropriate to test how cells
respond to the particles whose density are smaller than the medium solution. Our results show that
the macrophage cell viability decreases with increasing number of UHMWPE particles in the
system. However, Ingram et al. applied a solid medium to incubate macrophage cells with
UHMWPE particles [5]. Their results indicated that polyethylene particles did not affect the
macrophage cell viability [5]. It may be due to the drawback of their cell culture system in which
the macrophage cells and UHMWPE particles cannot make contact with each other as easily as
observed in the liquid system. Thus a less sensitivity of the result was observed. We believe that by
increasing the contact opportunities between macrophages and particles in the liquid medium
185H.-W. Fang et al. / J. Biochem. Biophys. Methods 68 (2006) 175–187
[15] Shanbhag AS, Jacobs JJ, Black J, Galante JO, Glant TT. Macrophage/particle interactions: effect of size,
composition, and surface area. J Biomed Mater Res 1994;28:81–90.
[16] Voronov I, Santerre JP, Hinek A, Callahan JW, Sandhu J, Boynton EL. Macrophage phagocytosis of polyethylene
particulate in vitro. J Biomed Mater Res 1998;9:40–51.
[17] Fang H-W, Hsu SM, Sengers JV. Generation of narrowly distributed ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene
particles by surface texturing techniques. J Biomed Mater Res, B Appl Biomater 2003;67B:741–9.
[18] Fang H-W, Hsu SM, Sengers JV. Ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene wear particle effects on bioactivity. NIST
SP 1002 2003.
[19] Fang H-W, Su Y-C, Huang C-H, Yang C-B. Influence of biological lubricant on the morphology of UHMWPE wear
particles generated with microfabricated surface textures. Mater Chem Phys 2006;95:280–8.
[20] Fang H-W, Hsu SM, Sengers JV. Surface texture design to generate specific sizes and shapes of UHMWPE wear
particles. Mater Wiss Werkst Tech (Mat Sci and Eng Tech) 2003;34:976–88.
[21] ASTM F732, American Standards Of Testing Materials 1996.
[22] Niki Y, Matsumoto H, Suda Y, Otani T, Fujikawa K, Toyama Y, et al. Metal ions induce bone-resorbing cytokine
production through the redox pathway in synoviocytes and bone marrow macrophages. Biomaterials
2003;24:1447–57.
[23] Niki Y, Matsumoto H, Otani T, Suda Y, Yatabe T, Yoshimine F, et al. Flow cytometric technique for the detection of
phagocytosed wear particles in patients with total joint arthroplasty. Biomaterials 2003;24:3715–24.
187H.-W. Fang et al. / J. Biochem. Biophys. Methods 68 (2006) 175–187
CH Chang, HW Fang, HG Liu, et al 11
INTRODUCTION
Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (UKA) has
been done for more than 30 years with variable results.
Recent interest in minimally invasive techniques has
made this procedure regained the popularity. Short-term
results with respect to pain relief and function are equal to
or better than those of total knee arthroplasty (TKA).
However, with longer-term follow-up, the failure rate is
higher than that of TKA. The most common mechanism
of failure is component loosening, polyethylene wear and
progression of disease in the un-resurfaced compartment.
Some study indicated the durability of UKA declines
after 5 years, and the results at 10 years are inferior to
those of TKA. A recent follow up study showed 18% of
the knees had progressive loss of joint space in the
opposite compartment and 14% of the knees had
progressive loss of joint space in the patellofemoral
compartment1. Degeneration in the opposite compartment
is a common cause of failure after unicompartmental
arthroplasty2,6,7,9-11. Some authors have suggested that
overcorrection of joint deformity results in the transfer of
increased forces to the uninvolved compartment and
accelerating degeneration8,11. However, the complete
explanation of the progression of patello-femoral arthritis
is still not provided. In addition, Elsaid et al.3 further
suggested that the decreased synovial fluid lubrication
might be related to the cartilage damage.
As shown in Figure 1, under UKA design, the
influence of chemically conformed fluids from the joint
implant interface on the lubricating ability of the natural
cartilage on the other side becomes one of the most
critical issues. Once the association of the tribochemistry
of biological lubricants due to the joint implant
articulation and the osteoarthristis of the cartilage is
identified, further development can be made to enhance
the durability of UKA. Thus, the objective of this study to
develop a series testing protocols to (1) quantify the
tribochemical reactions of synovial fluid compositions
(eg. proteins, hyaluronic acid) due to the tribological
process of artificial joints, and to (2) evaluate the effects
of chemically conformed fluids on the performance of the
natural cartilages. By further performing systematic
investigations with the testing model, the failure
mechanism of UKA can be identified and the possible
solution can be proposed.
MATERIALS AND METHODS
An in-vitro testing procedures have been developed
to investigate the effects of tribochemical reactions of
biological lubricants on the friction change of articular
cartilages. Bovine serum was used as lubricants to
simulate the synovial fluid and the individual
Cartilage
Cartilage
PE
Metal 
Synovial 
fluid 
Tribochemistry 
Transformed fluid 
Frictional force change 
Fig. 1: Schematic of the effect of tribochemistry of synovial fluid on the friction of cartilage: Interactions of articulations of joint
implants and cartilage articulation.
CH Chang, HW Fang, HG Liu, et al 13
RESULTS
Figure 4 shows an example plot of the normal load,
frictional force, and friction coefficient for the linear
reciprocating sliding between cartilage tissue and 316
stainless steel under fresh serum lubrication with an
initial penetration depth of 600 µm. The positive and
negative frictional force and friction coefficient indicate
the opposite moving direction during the linear
reciprocating process. It is seen that the normal force
decays rapidly at initial linear reciprocating motions due
the stress relaxation of the viscoelastic cartilage.
Gradually the normal load approaches to a steady value
around the 20th cycle. 
The normal and frictional force during the sliding
motion has been successfully recorded, and friction
coefficients have been calculated. Figure 5 shows the
friction coefficients under fresh and articulate serum
solutions. The friction coefficients under articulated
serum are higher than the friction coefficients under fresh
serum. The results indicated that the lubricating ability of
the biological lubricants deteriorates after being
articulated by UHMWPE and stainless steel. 
DISCUSSION
The results imply that after the tribological process
of UKA system in vivo, the lubricating ability of synovial
fluid deteriorates. It might affect the articulation of
Fig. 3: Setup of the friction testing platform.
Fig. 4: Plot of the normal load, frictional force, and friction
coefficient for the linear reciprocating sliding between
cartilage tissue and 316 stainless steel under fresh
serum lubrication with an initial penetration depth of
600 µm.
