2 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
在光學星狀網路中不均勻全體排程問題之最佳化 
Optimization of Non-Uniform All-to-All Scheduling Problem in Optical Star Networks 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-274 -006 
執行期限：97 年 8 月 1 日 至 98 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：何漢彰  吳鳳技術學院 資訊工程系 
 
中文摘要 
  本計畫在具有N個節點的波長分割多工
(WDM)光學星狀網路中，關注一個全體傳
輸排程(All-to-All transmission Scheduling)的
問題。在此問題中，每個傳送器與接收器之
間恰好有一個封包要傳輸，而問題的目標是
極小化全體封包傳輸的排程長度。假如傳送
接收器在波長頻道是均勻的分佈，則在
WDM星狀光學網路中的全體排程問題能在
多項式時間被解答。然而在更普遍的狀況下，
假如傳送接收器並非均勻的分佈，則我們證
明全體排程問題是完全艱難。在此我們提出
近似的排程演算法，找出接近下限的排程長
度。由於可調式傳送接收器非常昂貴，因此
非均勻分佈的全體排程問題在實際應用是
相當重要。在此計畫中，我們針對此非均勻
分佈的全體排程問題提出複雜度、下限、及
高效率的排程演算法。本研究的相關成果已
經投稿於國際期刊發表。 
關鍵詞：全體排程問題，非均勻分佈，
下限，排程長度，完全艱難，波長分割多工
(WDM)。 
Abstract 
This project concerns with an all-to-all 
transmission scheduling problem in 
Wavelength Division Multiplexing (WDM) 
optical star networks with N nodes. In the 
problem, every transmitter/receiver pair has 
exactly one packet to be transferred and the 
objective of the problem is to minimize the 
scheduling length of the all-to-all packet 
transmission. The all-to-all scheduling 
problem in WDM optical star networks can be 
solved in polynomial time if transceivers are 
uniformly distributed on wavelength channels. 
However, in more general case, we have 
shown that the all-to-all scheduling problem is 
NP-Complete if the distribution of 
transceivers is non-uniform. Here, we present 
scheduling algorithms to find the scheduling 
length that comes up with the lower bound. 
The non-uniform all-to-all scheduling problem 
is important in many practical applications 
since the tunable transceiver is expensive. In 
this project, we have proposed the complexity, 
lower bound and efficient scheduling 
algorithms for the non-uniform all-to-all 
scheduling problem. Related papers on this 
project have been submitted for publication on 
international journal. 
Keywords: All-to-All Scheduling 
Problem, Non-uniform Distribution, Lower 
Bound, Scheduling Length, NP-Complete, 
Wavelength Division Multiplexing (WDM). 
一、前言 
    Optical networks provide higher 
transmission quality and larger bandwidth for 
high-speed communication than traditional 
electronic networks. Optical networking using 
Wavelength-Division Multiplexing (WDM) is 
a technology of choice for meeting the 
4 
of wavelengths in a WDM optical passive star 
network with N nodes and w wavelengths. 
In this project, we focus the all-to-all 
scheduling problem on a more general case 
where each wavelength cannot be uniformly 
shared by fixed-tuned receivers and these 
transceivers are non-uniformly distributed 
over the WDM optical star network as the real 
environment. The objective of the all-to-all 
scheduling problem is scheduled for each 
nodes-pair so that all nodes transmit only once 
to each node within a repeating cycle time as 
small as possible. The non-uniform all-to-all 
scheduling problem is important in practical 
applications since tunable transceivers are 
expensive.  
三、文獻探討 
The all-to-all scheduling problem is an 
interesting special case of the single-hop 
transmission scheduling problem (Pieris and 
Sasaki, 1994; Choi et al., 1996; Yeh et al., 
1999). If each node transmits packets to all 
nodes including itself, ܰଶ packets should be 
transmitted for an N-node WDM broadcast 
star network. Pieris and Sasaki (1994) 
proposed several upper and lower bounds of 
minimum scheduling length for the all-to-all 
scheduling problem. They assumed that the 
transmitters are tunable to any one of 
wavelengths with tuning latency ߜ, and that 
the number of available wavelengths is large 
enough. If packet transmissions are allowed 
while a transmitter or receiver is tuning from 
one wavelength to another, they found that the 
upper and lower bounds for the minimum 
scheduling length of all-to-all scheduling are 
൫ܰ ൅ ݋ሺܰሻ൯ כ ሺ√ߜ ൅ 1ሻ  and ൫ܰ ൅ ݋ሺܰሻ൯ כ
√ߜ , respectively. However, there is a 
tune-transmit separability constraint that 
packets cannot be transmitted while a 
transmitter or receiver is tuning. For satisfying 
the tune-transmit separability constraint, they 
found that the upper and lower bounds for the 
minimum scheduling length of all-to-all 
scheduling are ൫ܰ ൅ ݋ሺܰሻ൯ כ ሺඃ√ߜඇ ൅ √ߜሻ 
and൫2ܰ ൅ ݋ሺܰሻ൯ כ √ߜ, respectively. 
Choi et al. (1996) considered an 
important limitation when the number of 
wavelengths w is significantly less than the 
number of transceivers N, and assumed that 
each wavelength is exactly shared by N/w 
receivers for a uniform loading of 
wavelengths. They established lower bounds 
on the minimum scheduling length to 
exchange packets between every node pair in 
a network with tunable transmitters and 
fixed-tuned receivers. They showed that the 
lower bound for the minimum scheduling 
length of all-to-all scheduling is at 
least  ݉ܽݔ ሼߜ ൅ ேమ௪ , ݓߜ ൅
Nమ
୵మ ൅ ܰ െ
ே
௪ሽ , and 
the upper bound obtained in (Pieris and Sasaki, 
1994) is in fact a lower bound to the optimum 
schedule length, i.e., the all-to-all transmission 
schedule is optimal for the case of uniform 
loading of wavelengths. Choi et al. (2000) 
also consider the case when N is not divisible 
by w. The wavelengths are loaded with 
fixed-tuned receivers as uniformly as possible. 
They proposed optimal scheduling algorithms 
for three different cases depending on the 
range of tuning latency ߜ. Except for a very 
narrow range, their algorithms perform within 
a factor 13/12 of the lower bound. 
If each node transmits packets to all 
nodes excepting itself, the number of packets 
to be sent for the all-to-all scheduling is 
ܰሺܰ െ 1ሻ . Lee et al. (1997) showed that 
6 
transmits packets to all nodes include itself, 
there are N2 packet transmissions in the 
scheduling. We assume that N nodes are 
partitioned into w groups and the total number 
of nodes in the i-th group is equal to ni. Since 
the lower bound is determined by the tuning 
latency and the maximum size of groups, we 
show that the lower bound of the scheduling 
length for the all-to-all scheduling problem is 
݉ܽݔ ሼ݉ܽݔሼ݊௜ሽ כ ܰ, ݓߜ ൅ ܰሽ . On the other 
hand, when each node transmits packets to all 
nodes except itself, we show that the lower 
bound of the scheduling length is 
݉ܽݔ ሼ݉ܽݔሼ݊௜ሽ כ ሺܰ െ 1ሻ, ݓߜ ൅ ܰ െ 1ሽ. 
(3) Efficient scheduling algorithm 
All the scheduling algorithms proposed 
in the previous research works are to tune the 
available wavelengths to the received nodes. 
In our algorithms, the wavelength of each 
receiver is fixed and we only consider the 
scheduling step for packet transmissions. In 
this project, efficient scheduling algorithms 
are found based on pipelining the packets 
transmissions and overlapping the tuning 
latencies. We present two optimal scheduling 
algorithms for two kinds of the all-to-all 
broadcast problems and also propose an 
optimal scheduling algorithm for a special 
case of the problem. 
五、結果與討論 
This project considers the all-to-all 
scheduling problem with non-uniformly 
distributed transceivers. We assume that each 
transmitter is tunable with an associated 
tuning delay, and each receiver is fixed-tuned 
to one of available wavelengths. In this model, 
we identify the lower bounds of the 
scheduling length for the all-to-all scheduling 
problem, and propose several single-hop 
scheduling algorithms to close up the optimal 
solution in both terms of arbitrary number of 
wavelengths and value of tuning latency. For 
the case when the transceivers send the 
packets to all nodes including themselves, the 
scheduling length found by the proposed 
scheduling algorithm meets the lower bound 
݉ܽݔ ሼ݉ܽݔሼ݊௜ሽ כ ܰ, ݓߜ ൅ ܰሽ . For the other 
case when the transceivers send the packets to 
all nodes excepting themselves, we present 
scheduling algorithms to find the scheduling 
length that close up the lower 
bound  ݉ܽݔ ሼ݉ܽݔሼ݊௜ሽ כ ሺܰ െ 1ሻ, ݓߜ ൅ ܰ െ
1ሽ.  
六、計畫成果自評 
(1)完成原計畫所規劃之相關研究內容，並已
達成預期目標。。 
(2)部分研究內容已投稿國際期刊 Elsevier 
AEUE - International Journal of Electronics 
and Communications。 
 
參考文獻 
z Sivalingam, K.M. and Subramaniam, S. (2000) 
`Optical WDM Networks, Principles and Practice', 
Kluwer Academic. 
z Mukherjee, B. (1992a) `WDM-Based Local 
Lightwave Networks - Part I: Single-Hop Systems', 
IEEE Network, Vol. 6, No. 3, pp.12-27. 
z Mukherjee, B. (1992b) 'WDM-Based Local 
Lightwave Networks - Part II: Multihop Systems', 
IEEE Network, Vol. 6, No. 4, pp.20-32. 
z Rouskas, G. N. and Sivaraman, V. (1997) `Packet 
scheduling in broadcast WDM networks with 
arbitrary transceiver tuning latencies', IEEE/ACM 
Transactions on Networking, Vol. 7, No. 3, 
pp.359-370. 
z Gonzalez, T. and Sahni, S. (1976) `Open shop 
scheduling to minimize _nish time', Journal of the 
ACM , Vol. 23, No. 4, pp.665-679. 
z Pieris, G. R. and Sasaki, G. H. (1994) 'Scheduling 
