that means the inventory levels have to be reduced significantly. 
Under these cruel conditions, the functions of logistics systems are becoming more 
flexible and efficient to overcome the difficulties. However, the most difficult and inevitable 
part, uncertainty, is always looking for troubles in the configurations and operations of 
logistics systems. As we know, the demands will change, the price will fluctuate, the 
resources may be limited, and the nature disasters or wars may destroy the transportation 
networks. Therefore, a well-planned logistics system could be inefficient or even functionless 
if the uncertainties are getting serious. 
 
Literature Reviews 
Christopher & Lee (2004) proposed that the new marketplace is characterized by 
turbulence and uncertainty. Market turbulence has tended to increase for a number of reasons. 
At the same time the vulnerability of supply chains to disturbance or disruption has increased. 
It is not only the effect of external events such as wars, strikes or terrorist attacks, but also the 
impact of changes in business strategy. Many companies have experienced a change in their 
supply chain risk profile as a result of changes in their business models, for example the 
adoption of "lean" practices, the move to outsourcing and a general tendency to reduce the 
size of the supplier base. 
Lee (2002) stated that today's supply chain managers have been bombarded with a wide 
variety of the so-called leading-edge supply chain strategies. New terminologies and 
initiatives are being developed constantly. However, not all these initiatives or strategies are 
appropriate for all firms. Companies need to first understand the uncertainties faced by the 
demand and supply of its products and then try to match these uncertainties with the right 
supply chain strategies. Based on an analysis of the uncertainties of supply and demand faced 
by the firm, a framework is developed that can assist managers in developing the right supply 
chain strategy for their products. 
 
Methodology 
The state-space method is applied. It is based on the description of system equations in 
terms of n first-order difference equations, which may be combined into a first-order 
vector-matrix difference equation. The use of the vector-matrix notation greatly simplifies the 
mathematical representation of the systems of equations. System design by use of the 
state-space concept enables the design of control systems with respect to given performance 
indexes. In addition, design in the state space can be carried out for a class of inputs, instead 
of a specific input function such as the impulse function, step function, or sinusoidal function. 
There are several components used in the state-space analysis.   
State-Space Equations.  In state-space analysis we are concerned with three types of 
 2
 
Figure 4: Generic block diagram for the order-up-to policies 
 
Discussion 
The research focuses on the dynamic behavior of the complex dynamic logistics systems. 
Discrete time domain is considered because of the daily management operations. The impacts 
of uncertainties on the systems can be realized after analyze the dynamic logistics models. 
 
References 
Biederman, D. (1998), “An uncertain future”, Traffic World, 23, pp.34-35. 
Burns, J.F. and Sivazlian, B.D. (1978), “Dynamic analysis of multi-echelon supply systems”, 
Computers and Industrial Engineering, 7, pp. 181-93. 
Checkland, P., Systems Thinking, Systems Practice, John Wiley & Sons Inc, Chichester, 1981. 
Claycomb, C., Droge, C., and Germain, R. (2002), “Applied product quality knowledge and 
performance: Moderating effects of uncertainty”, The International Journal of Quality & 
Reliability Management, 19, pp. 649. 
Christopher, M. and Lee, H. (2004), “Mitigating supply chain risk through improved 
confidence”, International Journal of Physical Distribution & Logistics Management, 
34,  pp. 388. 
Davis, T. (1993), “Effective supply chain management”, Sloan Management Review, 34, pp. 
35-46. 
Dejonckheere, J., Disney, S.M., Lambrecht, M.R., and Towill, D.R. (2003), “Measuring and 
avoiding the bullwhip effect: A control theoretic approach”, European Journal of 
Operational Research, 147, 567-590. 
Dejonckheere, J., Disney, S.M., Lambrecht, M.R., and Towill, D.R. (2004), “The impact of 
information enrichment on the bullwhip effect in supply chain: A control engineering 
perspective”, European Journal of Operational Research, 153, 727-750. 
Ferris, J.S. and Towill, D.R., (1993), "Benchmarking a generic family of dynamic 
manufacturing ordering and control models", Journal of Systems Engineering, 3 , pp. 
170-182. 
 4
