 2
also been verified by the exact solutions in [1] 
for the bi-isotropic slabs with PEC backing 
and the numerical solutions in [5] for the 
multi-layered anisotropic slabs. On the basis 
of this model, numerical results of the 
reflection from an FRPC slab coated with 
either a chiral or a Tellegen medium are 
obtained and discussed in detail. As a 
distinctive result, the twist-polarizer effect 
occurs not only in the non-reciprocally 
Tellegen coating case but also in the 
reciprocally chiral one.  
 
                                                                                        
2. Numerical Results 
 
Consider a plane wave normally 
impinging upon a multilayered slab, as 
shown in Fig. 1. More specifically, the slab 
can be an FRPC slab of N layers coated in 
front with a bi-isotropic medium. 
Typical co- and cross-polarized 
reflection from an FRPC slab coated with a 
Tellegen medium is shown in Fig 2. The 
impinging plane wave is polarized in TM to 
x-direction. The twist-polarizer effect is 
shown, i.e., the co-polarized low-reflection 
bands always correspond to the 
cross-polarized high-reflection bands. 
The condition of the occurrence of 
twist-polarizer effect is examined in Fig. 3, 
where the co-polarized reflection from a 
Tellegen-medium coated FRPC slab with 
various non-reciprocities is shown. On the 
basis of the results, it is proposed that 
making the values of the relative impedance 
and the relative non-reciprocity of the 
Tellegen coating close to each other is an 
optimal condition for achieving the 
twist-polarizer effect.  
The twist-polarizer effect can also be 
observed in the case of reflection from an 
FRPC slab with a reciprocally chiral coating. 
Fig. 4 shows the typical co- and 
cross-polarized reflection. Indeed, the 
twist-polarizer effect occurs in this case. 
However, the twist-polarizer condition 
cannot be determined as simple as that for 
the Tellegen case. 
 
 
3. Conclusions 
 
A state-equation for governing 
electromagnetic fields in multilayered 
bi-isotropic and anisotropic slabs was 
developed. On the basis of solving this 
equation, numerical results for reflection 
from an FRPC slab coated with a bi-isotropic 
medium were obtained. The twist-polarizer 
effect pertaining to this slab was investigated 
in detail. The effect depends not only on the 
material parameters and thickness of the 
coating but also on the FRPC material 
parameters and structure. The optimal 
twist-polarizer condition is to make the 
relative impedance close to the relative 
non-reciprocity in the Tellegen cases. In 
addition, the anisotropy and the 
inhomogeneity of the FRPC’s were essential 
for making the twist-polarizer effect occur in 
the chiral cases. However, the optimal 
twist-polarizer condition for the chiral cases 
cannot be predicted analytically. 
 
References 
 
[1] I. V. Lindell, S. A. Tretyakov, and M. I. Oksanen, 
“Conductor-backed Tellegen slab as twist polarizer,” 
Electronics Letters, vol. 28, pp. 281-282, Jan. 1992. 
 
[2] A. J. Viitanen and P. P. Puska, “Plane wave 
reflection from a chiral slab backed by soft and hard 
surfaces with application to polarization 
transformers,” IEE Proc.-Microw. Antennas Propag., 
vol. 145, pp. 299-302, Aug. 1998. 
 
[3] M. A. Mogan, D. L. Fisher, and E. A. Milne, 
“Electromagnetic scattering by stratified 
inhomogeneous anisotropic media,” IEEE Trans. 
Antennas Propagat., vol. 35, pp. 191-197, Feb. 1987. 
 
[4] J. B. Titchener and J. R. Willis, “The reflection of 
electromagnetic waves from stratified anisotropic 
media,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. 39, pp. 
35-39, Jan. 1991. 
 
[5] M. S. Lin and C. H. Chen, “Plane-wave shielding 
characteristics of anisotropic laminated composites,” 
IEEE Trans. Electromagn. Compat.  vol. 35, pp. 
21-27, Feb. 1993. 
 
 
 
 
