道吞吐量分析以及主要使用網路(primary networks)所能提供的通道空閒資源和
其所受感知使用者影響所產生的封包延遲。接著，根據此分析模型，基於動態
規畫(dynamic programming)的技巧，在主要使用者的封包延遲限制之下提出最
佳的跳頻選擇機制 (OCS)，藉著開發最佳的資源分配機制去平衡通道空閒資源
和通道使用率，此方法可以找出此網路底下最佳的通道吞吐量，同時降低對主
要使用者的干擾。從模擬的結果中可以看出所提出的最佳的跳頻選擇機制的確
和其它傳統的跳頻機制相比可以大幅提升網路的吞吐量，並且確保主要使用網
路的封包延遲限制。 
 
 
 
Abstract 
 
 Recent studies have been conducted to indicate the ineffective usage of licensed 
bands due to the static spectrum allocation. In order to improve the spectrum 
utilization, the cognitive radio (CR) is therefore suggested to dynamically exploit the 
opportunistic primary frequency spectrums. The interference from the secondary 
users (SUs) to the primary user (PU) consequently draws the attention to the 
spectrum and power management for the cognitive radio networks. In this report, the 
constrained stochastic games are utilized to exploit the optimal policies for power 
management by considering the variations from both the channel gain and the 
primary traffic. Both the underlay and overlay waveforms are considered within the 
network scenarios for the proposed power management scheme. Constraints for 
allowable interferences will be applied in order to preserve the communication 
quality among the primary and the secondary users. According to the formulation of 
the constrained stochastic games, the existence of the constrained Nash equilibrium 
will be validated with rigorous proofs, which will be acquired as the optimal policies 
for the power management problem. Simulation results further validate the 
correctness of the theoretically derived policies for dynamic power management. 
 
On the other hand, channel-hopping based medium access control (MAC) 
protocols are proposed to improve the capacity in a decentralized multi-channel CR 
networks without extra usage of a control channel. Each CR user has to stochastically 
follow a default channel-hopping sequence in order to sense a channel and to conduct 
its frame transmission. In this report, based on the channel-hopping protocol, an 
analysis is conducted on both the probability of channel availability and the average 
frame delay for the primary queueing networks. The analytical model is proposed by 
Dynamic Power Management in Cognitive Radio
Networks based on Constrained Stochastic Games
Chia-Wei Wang, Yu-Pin Hsu, and Kai-Ten Feng
Department of Electrical Engineering
National Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu, Taiwan
{casanova.cm96g, charles880353.ep90}@nctu.edu.tw and ktfeng@mail.nctu.edu.tw
Abstract—Recent studies have been conducted to indicate the
ineffective usage of licensed bands due to the static spectrum
allocation. In order to improve the spectrum utilization, the
cognitive radio is therefore suggested to dynamically exploit the
opportunistic primary frequency spectrums. The interference
from the secondary users to the primary user consequently
draws the attention to the spectrum and power management
for the cognitive radio networks. In this paper, the constrained
stochastic games are utilized to exploit the optimal policies for
power management by considering the variations from both the
channel gain and the primary traffic. Both the underlay and
overlay waveforms are considered within the network scenarios
for the proposed power management scheme. Constraints for
allowable interferences will be applied in order to preserve the
communication quality among the primary and the secondary
users. According to the formulation of the constrained stochastic
games, the existence of the constrained Nash equilibrium will
be validated with rigorous proofs, which will be acquired as the
optimal policies for the power management problem. Simulation
results further validate the correctness of the theoretically-
derived policies for dynamic power management.
Keywords: Cognitive radio, dynamic power management, con-
strained stochastic games, constrained Nash equilibrium.
I. INTRODUCTION
Due to rapid development of wireless systems, the demand
for wireless spectrums has resulted in spectrum scarcity based
on the conventional fixed allocation schemes. Even with the
intensive usage of frequency spectrums, it has been studied by
extensive measurements [1] that 62% of spectrum still remains
unoccupied by the licensed primary user (PU). Cognitive radio
(CR) is an intelligent wireless communication system that is
perceptible to its surroundings. It is advanced as an emerging
technology to effectively exploit the under-utilized spectrum
in order to overcome the overcrowded spectrum problem.
There are two types of spectrum sharing that are defined
for the CR networks (CRNs), including the underlay and
the overlay waveforms. The underlay waveform represents
that the unlicensed secondary users (SUs) are allowed to
simultaneously share the primary frequency spectrum with
the PUs. The transmission power of the SUs are in general
limited in order not to cause excessive interferences to the
PUs. On the other hand, an overlay waveform allows the
1This work was in part funded by the Aiming for the Top University
and Elite Research Center Development Plan, NSC 96-2221-E-009-016,
the MediaTek research center at National Chiao Tung University, and the
Universal Scientific Industrial (USI) Co., Taiwan.
SUs to perform packet transmission under the existence of
a spectrum hole. The spectrum hole is defined as a frequency
band authorized to PUs, however, it is vacant at a particular
time and geographic location. With the overlay waveform,
the SUs can sense and identify the existence of spectrum
hole for data communications. Therefore, spectrum utilization
can be enhanced with these frequency-agile features. The
research work in the CRNs has been investigated from various
aspects. The work proposed in [2; 3] presents the techniques
for spectrum sensing and detection; while [4; 5] investigate
the spectrum allocation problem for the CR. There are also
research [6; 7] focusing on the medium access control design
for the CRNs.
Game theory [8] has been considered a feasible mathemati-
cal tool for solving the resource allocation problems in CRNs.
The fundamental concept of game theory is to resolve the
conflict and cooperation between intelligent rational decision-
makers (DMs). Instead of reaching a globally optimized solu-
tion based on identical objective, the DMs within the gaming
formulation are seeking for solutions selfishly without the
knowledge of other DMs’ decisions. The primary reason is
due to the inherent conflicts between the objectives that are
assigned among the DMs, which can be adopted to model
the behaviors of both PUs and SUs within the CRNs. After
reaching the optimized solution (i.e. Nash equilibrium (NE)
[8]) based on the game theory, each individual DM will not
benefit from any action to deviate from the NE. In other words,
by considering the conflicted interests between the DMs, the
solutions obtained at the NE will provide every DM to possess
the optimal resource allocation.
In general, two different types of games are categorized for
the game theory, i.e. the strategic games and the extensive
games. With the objective of reaching the NE, all DMs
simultaneously select their strategies only for one-time by
adopting the strategic games [8], which have been exploited
to resolve the power control problem for the CRNs in recent
research work [9; 10]. The work in [9] proposed an algorithm
for distributed multi-channel power allocation based on the
strategic gaming model; while the pricing-based games are
utilized in [10] to achieve a higher signal-to-noise ratio with
the guarantee of reliable data transmissions.
On the other hand, the extensive games [8; 11; 12] represent
a class of gaming models where the DMs repeatedly con-
duct decision-making numerous times for resource allocation,
histories to the probability measure over the action sets of SU
i. The elements within the policy uti indicate the occurring
probabilities for their corresponding power level pi,j for j = 0
to max. It is noted that the decision of the policy uti for each
SU is independent to that for the other SUs. The set of all
reasonable policies for SU i is in the policy space Ui, i.e.
ui ∈ Ui. Therefore, with the consideration of all the N SUs,
the global policy space U =
∏N
i=1 Ui is called the class of
multi-policies. In addition, the multi-policy except SU i is
defined as u−i = (u1,u2, · · · ,ui−1,ui+1, · · · ,uN ) ∈ U−i.
Moreover, the stationary policies are characterized as the pol-
icy that is independent of the histories, i.e. uti : si →M(pi) as
a function mapping only from the current state si. The union
of all possible stationary policies is denoted as USi ∈ Ui,
and US =
∏N
i=1 U
S
i ∈ U represents the class of stationary
multi-policies.
In this paper, the immediate utility of SU i is defined as ri
which is a function of (st,pt). For example, the achievable
transmission data rate of SU i can be applied to the immediate
utility as follows
ri(st,pt) = B · log2
(
1 +
pti νii(s
t
i)∑
j =i p
t
j νji(s
t
j) + σ
2
i + εiφ
t
i
)
(1)
where st = (st1, st2, · · · , stN ) ∈ S and pt = (pt1, pt2, · · · , ptN )
∈ P. The parameter B denotes the bandwidth of the licensed
spectrum with unit in Hz. The function νji(stj) represents
the corresponding channel gain from SU j(Tx) to SU i(Rx)
in state stj , and σ2i is the power of the noise under the
assumption of additive, white, and Gaussian distribution. εi
denotes the interference from the primary traffic that imposes
on SU i. The expected utility of SU i with the policy
u = (u1,u2, · · · ,uN ) ∈ U and the initial state s0 =
(s01, s
0
2, · · · , s0N ) ∈ S can be obtained as
Ri(s0,u) = lim sup
T→∞
1
T
T−1∑
t=0
Eus0
[
ri(st,pt)
] (2)
where Eus0 is the operator for the computation of expectation
value. Furthermore, the allowable interferences between the
SUs and the PU are considered in order to guarantee the
quality of service (QoS) of the CRN. The supreme expected
allowable interference at the SU i(Rx) is obtained as
Ii,j(s0,u) = lim sup
T→∞
1
T
T−1∑
t=0
N∑
k=1
Eus0
[
ptk · νki(stk) · δj(φtk)
]
(3)
where δ is the Kronecker delta function. In (3), Ii,0(s0,u)
indicates the case with the absence of primary traffic, i.e.
δ0(φti = 0) = 1; while Ii,1(s0,u) denotes the case with pri-
mary traffic, i.e. δ1(φti = 1) = 1. Under the usage of licensed
band from PU, the influence occurred from the SUs is confined
by Ii,1(s0,u) ≤ C1 to assure the QoS of the PU, where
C1 denotes the the PU’s tolerable interference. Considering
the case without the primary traffic, the allowable interference
between the SUs are constrained by Ii,0(s0,u) ≤ C0, where
C0 indicates the QoS constraint among the SUs that share the
common spectrum band. Therefore, the set of feasible policies
can be defined as u ∈ U in order to satisfy the condition
Ii,j(s0,u) ≤ Cj for j ∈ {0, 1},∀i.
It is considered that the SUs are rational [8] such that all
SUs are intending to maximize their corresponding utilities in
(2). Furthermore, the decision for each SU i to transmit packets
with the power level pti at the beginning of time slot t is
determined without additional knowledge about the states and
actions from the other SUs. As a result, the constrained Nash
equilibrium (CNE) [14] will be utilized to facilitate the power
management problem from the perspective of game theory,
which is defined as follows.
Definition 1. A multi-policy u∗ = (u∗1,u∗2, · · · ,u∗N ) ∈ U is
a constrained Nash equilibrium (CNE) if it is a feasible policy
such that for all SUs i
Ri(s0,u∗) ≥ Ri(s0, [u∗−i|vi]) (4)
for any feasible policies [u∗−i|vi], where the policy [u∗−i|vi]
means that SU i uses the policy vi while other SUs k = i
takes the policy u∗k.
The purpose of this paper is to provide the mechanism for
dynamic power management based on the optimal polices that
are derived from the CNE. The existence of CNE for the
considered problem will be acquired in the next section.
III. EXISTENCE OF CNE FOR DYNAMIC POWER
MANAGEMENT
In this section, the constrained optimization problem for
dynamic power management considering a single SU will
first be introduced in Problem 1. The linear programming
methodology as formulated in Problem 2 will be associated
with Problem 1 based on the proofs in Lemmas 1 to 3.
Consequently, the dynamic power management problem as
defined in Definition 1 will be proved in Theorem 1 for the
entire N SUs in the CRN. Consider fixed policies for the other
SUs, a constrained optimization problem for a single SU can
be formulated to obtain the best response [8] as follows.
Problem 1 (Constrained Optimization Problem (COP)). Given
a fixed set of policies u−i ∈ U−i, find an optimal policy v∗i
for SU i in order to maximize the expected utility
Ri(s0, [u−i|vi]) (5)
subject to
Ii,j(s0, [u−i|vi]) ≤ Cj ∀j ∈ {0, 1} (6)
Therefore, a CNE multi-policy u∗ ∈ U in Definition 1 can
be verified while u∗i represents the optimal policy in Problem 1
for all SU i providing other SUs take the policies u∗−i. In order
to resolve Problem 1, the defined COP can be correlated with
a linear programming problem by extending from the previous
studies [14; 17; 18]. A linear programming problem is defined
as follows.
following relationship can be obtained: Ii,j(zi,u−i) =
Ii,j(s0, [u−i|λi(zi,u−i)]). Moreover, λi(zi,u−i) is considered
a feasible policy for the COP if zi,u−i additionally satisfies
(8).
Proof: The allowable interference in (3) can be expressed
via the state-action frequency as
Ii,j(s0,u) =
∑
(s,p)∈K
φm=j,∀m
(
N∑
k=1
pk νki(sk)
)
·
N∏
l=1
fl(s0l ,ul; sl, pl)∑
(sk,pk)∈Kl
φk=j
fl(s0l ,ul; sk, pk)
(21)
By adopting similar procedures as that from the proof
of Lemma 1, the relationship that Ii,j(zi,u−i) =
Ii,j(s0, [u−i|λi(zi,u−i)]) can be easily acquired. Furthermore,
since Ii,j(s0, [u−i|λi(zi,u−i)]) = Ii,j(zi,u−i) ≤ Cj for all
j, it can be found that λi(zi,u−i) will be a feasible policy for
the COP. This completes the proof.
Lemma 3. Given the set of policies u−i ∈ US−i and z∗i,u−i
as an optimal solution for the LP problem. It is discovered
that λi(z∗i,u−i) will be the best response for the COP.
Proof: Based on Lemmas 1 and 2 associated with The-
orem 3.6 in [17], the proof of this lemma can be achieved.
In order to extend the results to N SUs, the following
parameters are defined. Given the set z = (z1,z2, · · · ,zN )
such that zi = {zi(s, p) : (s, p) ∈ Ki} will satisfy (8) to
(11), where u = (u1,u2, · · · ,uN ) with ui = λi(zi). The
set Zi is composed by the elements zi as stated above, and
the global space Z =
∏N
i=1 Zi. By considering the mapping
function Ψi(z) : Z → Zi, the set of optimal solutions for the
LP problem in Problem 2 for each SU i can be denoted as
Ψi(z) = {z∗i,u−i(s, p) : (s, p) ∈ Ki}. Moreover, its product
space can also be defined as Ψ(z) : Z → Z where
Ψ(z) =
N∏
i=1
Ψi(z) (22)
Theorem 1. There exists a stationary multi-policy u ∈ US
as the CNE for dynamic power management problem of the
considered CRN.
Proof: According to the association of both the COP and
the LP problem as described in Lemma 3, it remains to show
if there exists a fixed point (i.e. z ∈ Ψ(z)) to the vector-
valued function as in (22). The domain of Ψi(z) (i.e. Zi) is
considered a compact and convex set by investigating (8) to
(11), and so is its product space Z. It is noted that Ψi(z) is
defined as
Ψi(z) = argmax
zi,u−i∈Zi
Ri(zi,u−i) (23)
where Ri(zi,u−i) is observed to be a continuous function
in terms of zi,u−i . Therefore, both Ψi(z) and its product
1
(1.340)
(1.893)
00.981
0.019
0.002
0.901 0.155
0 1
0.884
0.116
0.116
0.884 : PU
 : SU 1 (pair)
 : SU 2 (pair)
(a)
(b)
(0.628)
(0.598)
2
(2.805)
(2.936)
0.097
0.845
1
(1.982)
(1.463)
00.251
0.749
0.112
0.832 0.977(c)
(0.640)
(0.872)
2
(2.905)
(2.446)
0.056
0.023
Fig. 2. Simulation parameters: (a) transition probabilities of primary traffic
states (0: without primary traffic, 1 : with primary traffic); (b) transition
probabilities of channel gain states for SU 1; (c) transition probabilities of
channel gain states for SU 2. Thereinto, the value within the parenthesis for
the channel gain state indicate the channel gain in that state.
space Ψ(z) are considered non-empty based on the extreme
value theorem [19]. Furthermore, Ψ(z) is a convex set for all
z ∈ Z due to the linearity of Ri(zi,u−i). The continuity of
Ri(zi,u−i) results in the closed graph of Ψ(z). The proof can
consequently be completed by adopting the Kahutain’s fixed
point theorem [8].
Remark 1. Given z∗ ∈ Ψ(z∗), the set of stationary multi-
policies {λ1(z∗1),λ2(z∗2) · · · ,λN (z∗N )} is a CNE to the dy-
namic power management problem for the considered CRN.
IV. NUMERICAL EVALUATION
In this section, simulations are conducted to verify the
results attained from the derivation of the optimal policy.
The computation of CNE can be obtained by [8; 20]. It is
noted that the immediate utility function ri as described in
(1) is utilized as the objective to be achieved for the power
management problem. With the bandwidth of B = 10 MHz
for the considered licensed spectrum, one PU and two SU pairs
are considered in the CRN with the period of T = 1000 time
slots for power management. The power constraints without
and with the primary traffic are defined as C0 = 1000 and
C1 = 100 in the unit of watt respectively, i.e. the allowable
interferences among the SUs and from the SUs to the PU.
The action set pi = {0, 100, 200, 300, 400} , interference from
primary traffic εi = 5, and the noise power σ2i = 1 are
assumed for both SUs.
Fig. 2 illustrates the transition probabilities for both the
primary traffic states and channel gain states. As in Fig. 2
(a), the value of the primary traffic state with 0 denotes the
absence of primary traffic; while value with 1 stands for the
existence of primary traffic. The transition probabilities of
channel gain states for SU 1 and 2 are depicted in Fig. 2
(b) and (c) respectively where the the channel gains are also
denoted for each state. In each state, the first value is the
channel gain of self-traffic and the second value denotes that
from other SU. For example, for channel gain state 2 of SU 1,
the channel gain from SU 1(Tx) to SU 1(Rx) is 2.805 and that
Design and Analysis of Optimal Channel-Hopping
Sequence for Cognitive Radio Networks
Chi-Mao Lee∗, Jia-Shi Lin∗, Yu-Pin Hsu†, and Kai-Ten Feng∗
∗Department of Electrical Engineering, National Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu, Taiwan
frundly@gmail.com, uxoxox.cm96g@g2.nctu.edu.tw, and ktfeng@mail.nctu.edu.tw
†Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Texas A&M University, USA
yupinhsu@tamu.edu
Abstract—In recent years, channel-hopping based medium
access control (MAC) protocols are proposed to improve the
capacity in a decentralized multi-channel cognitive radio (CR)
networks without extra usage of a control channel. Each CR user
has to stochastically follow a default channel-hopping sequence in
order to sense a channel and to conduct its frame transmission.
In this paper, based on the channel-hopping protocol, an analysis
is conducted on both the probability of channel availability and
the average frame delay for the primary queueing networks. The
analytical model is proposed by considering the impact caused
by imperfect sensing of the CR users and the imperfect syn-
chronization between the primary and CR networks. According
to the proposed model with more realistic considerations, an
optimal channel-hopping sequence (OCS) approach is designed
for the CR users based on dynamic programming technique.
It is designed by exploiting the optimal load balance between
both the channel availability and channel utilization within
the delay constraints of primary users (PUs). By adopting the
OCS approach, the maximum aggregate throughput of CR
users and the quality of service (QoS) requirement of PUs can
both be achieved. Numerical results illustrate that the proposed
OCS scheme can effectively maximize the aggregate throughput
compared to conventional channel-hopping sequences, and as well
guarantee the QoS requirement of the PUs.
Keywords: Cognitive radio, queueing networks, channel-hopping
sequence, dynamic programming, quality of service.
I. INTRODUCTION
The increasing demand for spectrum resource lately has
caused the so-called spectrum scarcity problem primarily due
to the conventional approaches of static spectrum allocation.
In fact, according to the regulations from FCC [1], a large
portion of the priced frequency spectrum is underutilized in
most of the time and location, i.e., known as spectrum holes.
Consequently, cognitive radio (CR) for dynamic spectrum
access (DSA) has been prevailing exploited for more efficient
spectrum utilization over the licensed bands [2] such as the
IEEE 802.22 [3; 4] standard. It is an emerging standard that
allocates spectrums for TV broadcast services via a license-
exempt basis. The CR user (CRU), i.e., unlicensed user, is
capable of sensing the channel condition and can adapt its
internal parameters to access the licensed channels while
1This work was in part funded by the Aiming for the Top University
and Elite Research Center Development Plan, NSC 96-2221-E-009-016, NSC
98-2221-E-009-065, the MediaTek research center at National Chiao Tung
University, and the Universal Scientific Industrial (USI) Co., Taiwan.
these channels are not being utilized by the primary users
(PUs), i.e, licensed users. In addition to the IEEE 802.22
standard which focused on specification for a centralized CR
network, there are also a great number of research interested in
decentralized DSA in multi-channel TDMA-based (i.e., time
slotted-based) primary networks. The main focus is on how to
design a medium access control (MAC) protocol to effectively
exploit the channel availability under the overlay paradigm
considering that both the PUs and CRUs cannot transmit
simultaneously.
These MAC protocols can be categorized into two different
types of schemes according to their access strategies, including
the sensing-based and the probability-based methods. The
sensing-based scheme indicates that the CRUs have to sense
part of the channels before deciding which channel to access.
In general, it will lead to higher channel utilization. However,
it is considered impractical for each CRU to equip multiple
transceivers to conduct spectrum sensing or inefficient for a
CRU to sense and switch among the entire frequency spec-
trums within a slot time in order to obtain the required knowl-
edge of spectrum map. On the other hand, the probability-
based scheme indicates that the CRUs have to decide which
channel to sense according to certain statistical information
from the PUs and consequently transmit their data. This type
of scheme is implemented to amend the problem arising from
sensing-based protocols by considering each CRU can only
possess a single transceiver for channel sensing. Therefore, it
becomes important for the CRUs to accurately acquire the
opportunities for accessing an idle channel in an efficient
manner.
In [5], an opportunistic spectrum access MAC protocol
was proposed based on a common control channel approach
for the CRUs to both negotiate the channel reservation and
determine which channel to sense based on the stationary
idle probability of the PU in each channel. However, the
usage of an additional common control channel is still in
controversy. The partially observable Markov decision process
framework in [6] provides an optimal sensing strategy for a
CRU to select and sense a channel which has the highest
potential in maximizing throughput. However, the proposed
framework is computationally complex and is not considered
suitable for networks with multiple CRUs. For a more realistic
scenario, the channel-hopping based protocols are proposed in
This full text paper was peer reviewed at the direction of IEEE Communications Society subject matter experts for publication in the WCNC 2010 proceedings.
978-1-4244-6398-5/10/$26.00 ©2010 IEEE
channel sampling rate of the CRP. The Q(·) function repre-
sents the complementary distribution function of a standard
Gaussian variable. Noted that pd is also called the sensing
threshold which can be adjusted by the CRP, and pfa is an
increasing function of pd under fixed values of τ , γ, and fs.
According to (1), it can be found that significant amount of
sensing time τ is required for achieving perfect sensing, i.e.,
exactly sense the state of PU to be either busy (pd = 1) or idle
(pfa = 0). The sensing time τ is considered much larger than
the 10 ms slot size as specified in IEEE 802.22 standard [3]
owing to the limitation in hardware and sensing algorithms.
Therefore, perfect sensing is considered impractical and will
severely degrade the channel utilization. Furthermore, by as-
suming all the CRPs with the same sensing threshold pd, the
average probability of detection PD,i for all CRPs hopping to
channel i with correct detection, and the average probability
of false alarm PF,i for all CRPs hopping to channel i with
false alarm can be respectively written as
PD,i =
N∑
n=0
HN,n,i p
n
d = [1− pi(1− pd)]N , (2a)
PF,i =
N∑
n=0
HN,n,i p
n
fa = [1− pi(1− pfa)]N , (2b)
where HN,n,i represents the probability of n out of the N
CRPs hopping to channel i with probability pi as
HN,n,i =
(
N
n
)
pni (1− pi)N−n. (3)
B. Probability of Channel Availability and Average Frame
Delay
In this subsection, the impacts caused by imperfect synchro-
nization and sensing of CRPs are analyzed in the probability of
channel availability and average frame delay of the primary
queueing network. The primary network in each channel is
a Geo/G/1 discrete-time queueing system with retransmitting
capability if its frames are collided by the CRPs. Noted that
the arrivals and departures, i.e., service completions, of the
primary network occur at the starting epochs simultaneously.
Moreover, in order to ensure the analysis tractable, the Arrival
First (AF) scheme [11] is introduced as the scheduling policy
for the queue. In other words, the frame arrivals takes prece-
dence over departures during the starting epochs as shown in
Fig. 1 at t3 in channel 2. The distribution of system size, i.e.,
queue plus the channel, observed at the departure points is
then identical to that of the original Geo/G/1 system proven
in [11]. Therefore, the probability of channel availability for
the CRPs and average frame delay of the PU can be analyzed
by the derivation of system size distribution at the departure
points as in [12].
Considering channel i for i = 1, 2, ...,M , let Xm,i be
defined as the discrete random variables (RVs) of the number
of system size observed in the mth departure point. S1,i and
S2,i are denoted as RVs of service time in condition that
Xm,i = 0 and Xm,i > 0 respectively. A1,i and A2,i are defined
as RVs of the number of arrival frames in condition that service
time is equal to S1,i and S2,i, respectively. Therefore, the
relationship between Xm,i, A1,i, and A2,i can be derived as
Xm+1,i =
{
A1,i Xm,i = 0,
Xm,i + A2,i − 1 Xm,i ≥ 1. (4)
Let probability mass function (PMF) ar,k,i = Pr(Ar,i = k)
for r = 1 and 2, both of them can be formulated as
ar,k,i =
∞∑
l=k
Pr(Sr,i = l)Pr(Ar,i = k|Sr,i = l)
=
∞∑
l=k
(
l
k
)
Pr(Sr,i = l)λki (1− λi)l−k. (5)
Fig. 1 depicts the relationship between S1,i and CRPs’ sensing
actions, i.e., PD,i and PF,i, by considering cases for S1,i = 1,
2, and 3. Noted that S1,i also means the service time condition
on no PU’s frame in the previous slot according to PU’s clock.
Therefore, it can be observed that the sensing action made by
the CRPs in the previous slot becomes either PF,i or 1−PF,i,
instead of either PD,i or 1 − PD,i. As in Fig. 1, it can be
seen that the successful frame transmitted by PU requires two
CRPs’ successive PD,i except for S1,i = 1. Consequently, both
cases S1,i = 1 and S1,i > 1 should be considered respectively.
Moreover, the first sensing probability of either PF,i or 1−PF,i
condition on S1,i > 1 should also be studied since the second
sensing action should be 1 − PD,i if the first sensing action
is PF,i. It is noted that S1,i = 1 represents the first sensing
action as PF,i and the second sensing action to be PD,i.
It is assumed that the PUs do not exist in the sensing period
τ of CRPs since τ is much shorter compared to the slot time
Ts. The carrier sensing in the contention phase cannot detect
the existence of the PU due to the difference of natures from
the detector in spectrum sensing [13]. Let c1,i(z) and qi(z) be
respectively defined as the z-transform of the PMF of S1,i and
the PMF of transmitting until the existence of two successive
PD,i. According to (2a) and (2b), c1,i(z) can be written as
c1,i(z) = PF,i[PD,iz+(1−PD,i)qi(z)z]+(1−PF,i)qi(z), (6)
and qi(z) is derived by recursive method as follows
qi(z) = fi(z)[PD,iz + (1− PD,i)qi(z)z],
which can be simplified as
qi(z) =
PD,ifi(z)z
1− (1− PD,i)fi(z)z , (7)
where fi(z) represents the z-transform of geometric distribu-
tion with parameter PD,i. It can be written as
fi(z) =
PD,iz
1− (1− PD,i)z . (8)
Furthermore, S2,i denotes the service time for a new frame,
i.e., not a retransmitting frame, served right after the previous
frame. It indicates that the sensing action of CRPs in the last
slot must be PD,i such that the previous frame can leave the
This full text paper was peer reviewed at the direction of IEEE Communications Society subject matter experts for publication in the WCNC 2010 proceedings.
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
1.4
Number of CRPs
Ag
gr
eg
at
e T
hr
ou
gh
pu
t (s
lot
s)
 
 
Sim OCS, p d=0.93
Sim OCS, p d=0.93, D c,i=2
Sim OCS, p d=0.95, D c,i=2
Sim UCS, p d=0.93
Sim PCS, p d=0.93
Theoretical
Fig. 2. Aggregate throughput of CRPs under different channel-hopping
sequences with number of channels M = 4 (each channel has arrival rate
λi = 0.05, 0.05, 0.4, 0.4 for i = 1, 2, 3, 4).
probability pi) cannot be independently determined since the
throughput can also be incurred in the rest of the undecided
channels. In other words, it is not possible to directly allocate
all the hopping probability into a channel with the lowest
frame arrival probability since potential throughput may exist
in the rest of channels unassigned with hopping probabilities.
In order to resolve this problem, the DP-based approach in
[14] is introduced for obtaining the OCS.
A. Dynamic Programming Formulation for OCS
In this subsection, the optimization problem in (20) for
multiple channels can be formulated into a DP problem as
in [14]. A reward function φi(i) at channel i denotes the
maximum value of throughput summed from channel i to
channel M with the channel available probability i, which
is the probability to be allocated from channel i to channel
M . Moreover, an instant reward function ηi(pi) as in (18)
plus the constraint pc,i which is the replacement of delay
constraint Dc,i since the average frame delay in (14) is a
strictly increasing function (i.e. one-to-one mapping) of pi.
The DP recursive form can therefore be written as
φi(i) = max
0≤pi≤min{pc,i, i}
{ηi(pi) + φi+1(i − pi)}, (21)
where 1 = 1 and i+1 = i − pi. The maximum aggregate
throughput in OCS can be obtained as
η(P∗) = φ1(1), (22)
where P∗ from the OCS approach is the combination of
channel-hopping probability obtained by the DP recursion in
each channel. The allowable channel-hopping probabilities pi
for each channel is quantized from 0 to 1 with quantized
level Δp, which will relate to the accuracy of the proposed
OCS. After off-line solving the OCS for different numbers of
CRPs with linear complexity O(M · (1/Δp)2) proportioned
to the number of channels M , the proposed OCS scheme can
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
Number of CRPs
Ag
gr
eg
at
e F
ra
m
e D
ela
y (
slo
ts)
 
 
Sim OCS, p d=0.93
Sim OCS, p d=0.93, D c,i=2
Sim OCS, p d=0.95, D c,i=2
Sim UCS, p d=0.93
Sim PCS, p d=0.93
Theoretical
Fig. 3. Aggregate frame delay of PUs under different channel-hopping
sequence with number of channels M = 4 (each channel has arrival rate
λi = 0.05, 0.05, 0.4, 0.4 for i = 1, 2, 3, 4).
consequently be recorded into a look-up table for CRPs in
order to acquire the OCS corresponding to N for real time
implementation.
IV. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
In this section, performance of the proposed OCS ap-
proach will be evaluated and compared to the other conven-
tional channel-hopping sequences. The system parameters are
adopted from IEEE 802.22 standard in [3; 4] for the CR
network operating on TV bands as bandwidth B = 6 MHz,
slot duration Ts = 11.28 ms, the SNR for spectrum sensing
γ = −20 dB, and over-sampling rate in spectrum sensing
of the CRPs fs = 8B/7. Moreover, the parameters in the
CRP’s frame structure are set as sensing time τ = 1 ms,
contention window W = 64, and mini-slot δ = 20 μs. Fig. 2
shows the aggregate throughput of the CRPs simulated with
the combination of four channels with PUs’ frame arrival rates
λi = 0.05, 0.05, 0.4, 0.4 for i = 1, 2, 3, 4. The corresponding
aggregate frame delay of the PUs are provided in Fig. 3. The
aggregate frame delay is the summation of average frame delay
in each channel, which can be utilized as a measurement for
the QoS requirement in the primary system, i.e., the system
will break down if the queue of a channel becomes unstable.
The quantized level Δp for searching OCS is set as 0.001,
which is accurate enough to obtain the proposed OCS in
the simulation settings. Moreover, two conventional channel-
hopping sequences are also simulated for comparison purpose
as follows: (a) uniform channel-hopping sequence (UCS) with
the probability pi = 1/M for i = 1, 2, ...,M , and (b)
proportional channel-hopping sequence (PCS) with channel
hopping probabilities proportioning to the complement of λi. It
is designed according to the situation that smaller frame arrival
probability is assumed to result in larger channel availability,
This full text paper was peer reviewed at the direction of IEEE Communications Society subject matter experts for publication in the WCNC 2010 proceedings.
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                            100 年 9 月 13 日 
報告人姓名  
方凱田 
 
服務機構 
及職稱 
 
交通大學電機工程學系 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
IEEE VTC Fall 2011 
September 5 ~ 8, 2011 
San Francisco, CA, USA 
本會核定 
補助文號 
 
會議 
名稱 
(中文) 2011 IEEE 車載無線通訊技術國際研討會 
 (英文) 2011 IEEE Vehicular Technology Conference, Fall (IEEE VTC-Fall 
2011) 
發表 
論文 
題目 
1. (中文) 針對車間通訊所設計以感知無線電為基礎的最佳跳頻存取技術 
   (英文) Cognitive Radio-Enabled Optimal Channel-Hopping Sequence for 
Multi-Channel Vehicular Communications 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
The 2011 IEEE 74nd Vehicular Technology Conference (VTC2011-Fall) was held in San 
Francisco, California, USA, between September 5 and 8, 2011. This semi-annual flagship 
conference of the IEEE Vehicular Technology Society brings together individuals from 
academia, government, and industry to discuss and exchange ideals in the fields of wireless, 
mobile, and vehicular technology. The conference features world-class plenary speakers, 
tutorials, and technical as well as application sessions. As for the technical program, there are 
793 papers submitted to the conference with over 2400 total reviewers. There are total of 486 
papers accepted. 
This year, the VTC Fall 2011 is themed as „Connecting the Mobile World‟ which provides 
a technical program consisting of 8 tracks, 9 tutorials, and 1 workshop. It covers the aspects of 
mobile communications, transportation, vehicular electronics, and new emerging 
technologies. The major areas of interest include antennas and propagation, transmission 
techniques, MIMOs and space-time-frequency processing, cognitive radio and spectrum 
sensing, cooperative communications, distributed MIMOs and relaying, wireless multiple 
access techniques, wireless networks, ad hoc, mesh and sensor networks, mobile satellite and 
positioning systems, wireless applications and services, vehicular electronics and telematics. 
The conference also provides plenary speakers as follows: 
1. “The Evolution of Smart Phones in the Android World”, Jan Uddenfeldt, Sony 
Ericsson 
2. “Connected Vehicles: How Wireless Technology can Transform Transportation 
Safety”, Shelley J. Row, P.E., PTOE Director, ITS Joint Program Office 
3. “The Wireless Evolution: From Telegraph to Smartphone to Future Wireless Species”, 
Matt Grob, EVP/CTO, Qualcomm 
 
附
件
三 
表 Y04 
2. Range Expansion and Inter-Cell Interference Coordination (ICIC) for Picocell 
Networks: Range expansion (RE), when applied with inter-cell interference 
coordination (ICIC) may have significant benefits for improving the throughput and 
fairness of macrocell/picocell networks. In this paper, first, benefits of RE in the 
uplink and downlink are reviewed, emphasizing its definitive merit for uplink 
communications. It is shown that while RE also improves the fairness in the 
downlink, it may seriously degrade the total system capacity if no ICIC is utilized. 
Then, a novel cell-selection technique that capitalizes on subframe-blanking at the 
macrocell is introduced for improving the downlink capacity and fairness. System 
level simulation results show that the proposed cellselection method adaptively 
achieves a good balance between sum capacity and fairness, and can be used in place 
of biasbased cell-selection. 
3. Dynamic Spectrum Sharing in Femtocells- a Comparison of Selfish versus Altruistic 
Strategies: Dynamic spectrum approaches are steadily gaining momentum, especially 
in the context of femtocells. Yet designing efficient, stable, fair and scalable 
distributed algorithms is no easy feat, especially if the cells in a wireless network 
tend to act selfish and independently. Game Theory is a powerful toolbox which 
models the interaction of autonomous agents. In this paper we present a game 
theoretic model for a dynamic spectrum sharing framework recently proposed for 
femtocells [1]. Our analysis includes cases where femtocells compete for spectrum as 
well as cooperative cases towards a common goal. The system level simulation 
results show that strict adherence to the gametheoretic selfish behavior performs 
poorly compared to the nonadherent rules which balance altruism and rational 
egoism. The main conclusion is that practical solutions should be guided but not 
limited by purely theoretical assumptions. 
4. Intelligent Traffic Control Based on IEEE 802.11 DCF/PCF Mechanisms at 
Intersections: The research on driverless cars has been making much progress lately. 
In this paper, we propose a new traffic control system without traffic lights at an 
intersection. We assume a system with fully autonomous driverless cars, and 
infrastructure to avoid collision completely. When automobiles approach an 
intersection, they communicates with the access point in both random access mode 
and polling mode, and the movement of the automobiles will be coordinated by the 
infrastructure (access point). Traffic congestion is very difficult to predict and deal 
with because it is a function of many unknown factors such as number of cars, 
weather, road constructions, accidents, etc. The proposed algorithm is designed for 
urban road networks to ease the congestion, and make it more predictable at the same 
time. 
 
三、攜回資料名稱及內容 
A CD for the Proceedings of VTC Fall 2011. 
四、其他 
 
98 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：方凱田 計畫編號：98-2221-E-009-065-MY2 
計畫名稱：協力式感知無線網路之電量管理及高吞吐量協定設計 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際
已達成數)
本計畫
實際貢
獻百分
比 
單位 
備註（質化說明：如
數 個 計 畫 共 同 成
果、成果列為該期刊
之封面故事...等）
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 1 1 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 8 8 100%  
博士生 4 4 100%  
博士後研究員 1 1 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國外 論文著作 期刊論文 1 1 100% 篇 [1] Chi-Mao Lee, 
Jia-Shi Lin, Kai-Ten 
Feng, and Chung-Ju 
Chang ’’Design and 
Analysis of 
Transmission 
Strategies in 
Channel-Hopping 
Cognitive Radio 
Networks,’’ 
accepted and to 
appear in IEEE 
Transactions on 
Mobile Computing, 
2011. (IF: 2.467, RF: 
0.053) 
Conference 
(VTC-Fall), Ottawa, 
Canada, Sept. 2010.
[4] Chi-Mao Lee, 
Jia-Shi Lin, and 
Kai-Ten 
Feng, ’’Design and 
Analysis of Optimal 
Channel-Hopping 
Sequence for 
Cognitive Radio 
Networks,’’ in 
Proceedings of IEEE 
Wireless 
Communication and 
Networking 
Conference (WCNC), 
Sydney, Australia,
Apr. 2010. 
[5] Chia-Wei Wang, 
Yu-Pin Hsu, and 
Kai-Ten 
Feng, ’’Dynamic 
Power Management in 
Cognitive Radio 
Networks based on 
Constrained 
Stochastic 
Games,’’ in 
Proceedings of IEEE 
Globe 
Telecommunications 
Conference 
(Globecom), 
Honolulu, HI, Nov. 
2009. 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 1 1 100% 
Jui-Hung Chu, and 
Kai-Ten 
Feng, ’’Cognitive 
Radio Enabled 
Multi-channel Access 
for Vehicular 
Communications’’ 
專利 
已獲得件數 0 0 100% 
件 
 
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
參與計畫人力 碩士生 0 0 100% 人次  
