 stretch-breaking occurs to the tow between rollers. 
Following this, the tow is sent with the twist caused 
by the traveler sliding around the ring which 
surrounds the bobbin, and spun into oxidized fiber 
yarn in the triangular zone at the outlet of the front 
roller. Figure 1 shows that during the stretch-break, 
the breaking point of the fiber tow is stochastic, so the 
fiber leading end will change its position with the 
rotation speed of the roller, and the length of broken 
fiber will be out of control. In other words, longer 
fibers will be produced if the breaking point is closer 
to the back roller, and shorter fibers will be produced 
if the breaking point is near the front roller [2].  
A model assembly of coarse mono-filaments was 
studied by Hearle and Bose [10] (1966) to see how the 
different forms appear in twisted fibrous structures. At 
a higher level of twist (3.5 tpi), as shown in Figure 3b, 
continuous twisting of two layers fed through a slot 
gave a twisted ribbon form, followed by an N-shaped 
structure, the buckling was irregular and a multilayer 
structure appeared. However, the final structure was 
cylindrically close-packed, with most of one color of 
threads on the surface and most of the others in the 
core. 
  
EXPERIMENTS  
2. Type of Twisting The 1536Tex/12k PAN-based oxidized tow from the 
Formosa Plastics Corporation of Taiwan was fed 
through the back roller of a two drafting-three pairs of 
rollers with an apron draft system. In the spinning 
frame, the oxidized tow was first stretch-broken to 
form a sliver in the break draft zone, and then was 
directly drafted by the apron system in the main draft 
zone. 222dTex/133f Technora® multifilament was 
positioned on an additional rack. The Technora® 
multifilament was passed through a spreading 
electrode and blended with the oxidized fiber behind 
the front roller, thus spinning a Technora® 
filament/Oxidized staple fiber (T/O) composite yarn. 
As shown in Figure 4, a laboratory spinning frame 
with SKF drafting system is equipped with a set of 
special spreading apparatus [5]. The T/O composite 
yarn unevenness (CV%) was tested on an Keisokii 
Evenness Tester, the breaking strength was tested on 
an Orientec Tensilon, RTA-1T, the abrasion resistance 
was tested on a Zweigle G550 abrasion tester, the LOI 
was measured on Stanton Reddcroft according to 
ASTM D2863 [11], and the cross sections of T/O 
composite yarn were examined by Cambridge SEM 
S360.
 
As early as 1928, Balls [10] discussed two types of 
twisting, ribbon twisting is formed under low tension, 
whereas cylindrical twisting takes places at high 
tension. Bose [10] (1963) showed that the twisted 
form is preferred for low twists, but that the wrapped 
form becomes preferable at higher twists, and there is 
an intermediate region in which both forms exist 
together. Thus, three possible ways of yarn twisting 
were considered: (1) twisted cylindrical form, (2) 
twisted ribbon form, and (3) wrapped ribbon form. 
These forms are illustrated schematically in Figure 2. 
 
(a)          (b)  (c) 
Figure 2 Three types of yarn twisting [4] 
(a) cylindrical twisting, 
(b) twisted ribbon form,  
(c) wrapped ribbon form 
 
3. Twisting of A Model Assembly 
       
(a) static twisting        (b) continuous twisting 
Figure 3 Filament arrangements during twisting of 
two layers [4]  
 
 2
For actual spinning, we varied the draft ratio to 
investigate the effect of spinning conditions on the 
unevenness (CV %) of oxidized direct spun yarn. As 
Figure 7 shows, to change the TM had no effect on the 
CV% of yarn. However, as the draft ratio increased, 
the yarn CV% appears to increase. For example, in the 
case of the TM 30, the yarn CV% tended to increase 
from 7.5% to 9.5% when the draft ratio setting 
changed from 34(48Tex) to 42(37Tex). Consequently, 
too much increase in the draft ratio, that is, spinning a 
finer yarn, makes the stretch-breaking behavior out of 
control, reducing yarn quality. This is mainly because 
changing the draft ratio changes the amount of 
oxidized fiber in the T/O composite yarn. Calculations 
show that when draft ratio is 34(48Tex), 42(37Tex), 
and 51(30Tex), the number of fibers is 353, 386, and 
235, respectively. The other component, Technora® 
multifilament did not go through the stretch-breaking 
procedure and was used with the original fiber number 
and denier. Its CV% is always about 6.0. The presence 
of Technora® is responsible for the lower CV% of T/O 
composite yarn. This is especially clear when there is 
less oxidized fiber.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7 Relationship between yarn CV% and TM 
corresponding to three kinds of yarn Tex  
 
3. Composite yarn strength 
There is a certain minimum value of TM, below 
which it is impossible to spin a spun yarn. Above this 
minimum TM, which is strongly influenced by staple 
length, fineness, and fiber surface (frictional) 
characteristics, the cohesiveness (yarn strength) 
between fibers initially increases at a fairly rapid rate. 
At low TMs, the initial increase in yarn strength is 
determined by the resistance of fibers to slippage. At 
high TMs, the contribution because of resistance to 
slippage reaches a steady maximum. However, as the 
TM becomes high, the effect of fiber obliquity comes 
into play, and this tends to reduce yarn strength. The 
twist-strength relationship is therefore the result of the 
simultaneous operation of the two effects discussed 
above.  
Figure 8 shows the yarn strength increased from 
16.04cN/dTex to 16.69cN/dTex, corresponding to 
30Tex composite yarn as TM increased from 25 to 35. 
This is because an increase in the twist multiplier 
increased interfiber cohesion between filaments and 
staple fibers. Then, the yarn strength declined to 
15.45cN/dTex as the TM increases up to 40 because 
of the effect of fiber obliquity. When processed in 
37Tex and 48Tex yarns, the effect of TM on the yarn 
strength followed the same trend. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8 Relationship between yarn strength and 
TM corresponding to three kinds of yarn Tex  
  
4. Residual strength 
In the experiment, the composite yarn was rubbed 
against #500 sandpaper (Switzerland) on a Zweigle 
G550 abrasion tester to evaluate the abrasion 
resistance of the composite yarn. After being rubbed 
40 times, we measured its strength of the rubbed yarn. 
The percentage of residual strength (PRS %) of the 
T/O composite yarn was calculated by the formula: 
PRS% = [(original yarn strength - rubbed yarn 
strength) / original yarn strength]*100%. As shown in 
Table 2, the percentage of residual strength (PRS %) 
retained by the T/O composite yarn was up to 80%. 
This indicates that the T/O composite yarn had very 
good abrasion resistance, and is suitable for industrial 
use. 
 
Table 2 Residual strength (PRS %) of the T/O 
composite yarns 
 
The appearance of the composite yarn after abrasion 
test was examined. We found that the outer oxidized 
fibers had been stripped and separated from the yarn 
body, especially in the case of the Core type T/O 
composite yarn. In addition, the uniform distribution 
type was not so obvious because the Technora® 
filaments are evenly dispersed in the cross section, 
resulting the fine mixing between Technora® filaments 
      Tex 
TM 48 37 30 
2.5 91.0 86.0 83.1 
3.0 90.8 85.2 82.3 
3.5 90.6 84.8 81.5 
4.0 90.2 84.4 80.8 
20 30 35 40 
6 
8
12 
14 
TM 
 
10 C
V
%
 
Tex:   37 48 30
25 30 35 40
8
12 
16
TM 
 37 48 30 
cN
/d
Te
x 
10
14
Tex:
 4
