2.MATERIALS AND METHODS 
System set-up 
Figure 1 shows a block diagram of the experimental set-up used to observe the 
lesion’s development. Orthogonally intersecting focused ultrasound beams were set 
up to observe the interactions between created lesions. The sonication was provided 
by two spherically concave PZT-4 ultrasound transducers with operating frequencies 
of 577 and 1155 kHz. The 577- and 1155-kHz ultrasound transducers were 
electrically excited separately to characterize suitable sonication parameters to induce 
thermal lesions in tissue-mimicking phantoms. Various peak intensities and sonication 
times were used to induce thermal lesions with lengths on the order of centimeters for 
better observation and differentiation of lesion types. 
 
Spectrum measurement 
Passive cavitation detection was conducted on the basis of the presence of a 
subharmonic component in the power spectrum of the ultrasound emission signal 
collected with the same hydrophone. The broadband signals were detected by a 
hydrophone and displayed on an oscilloscope. The signals were collected into a 
computer through a GPIB interface and their spectra were obtained using MATLAB. 
 
Phantom and ex vivo tissue experiments 
Experiments were performed both on transparent tissue-mimicking phantoms 
and ex vivo tissues. The tissue-mimicking phantom used in this study was based on a 
polyacrylamide gel containing fresh chicken-egg albumin, a protein that acts as a 
temperature-sensitive indicator. Since the phantom is transparent, protein denaturing 
induced by the focused ultrasound could be easily observed as a white high-contrast 
area. 
In addition to the transparent tissue-mimicking phantoms, freshly excised 
porcine muscle specimens were used in this study. All experiments were completed 
within 6 h of animal death. The porcine muscle was kept in a temperature-controlled 
water bath to imitate body temperature. Before all ex vivo tissue sonications, freshly 
cut surface was made at the sonication side to provide a smooth water/ tissue interface 
before conducting the experiments. 
 
3.RESULTS 
Figure 2 shows images of a series of lesions produced by the 577- and 1155-kHz 
ultrasound transducers and the corresponding spectra. For 577 kHz, the peak intensity 
ranged from 310 to 650 W/cm2, and the sonication times ranged from 10 to 30 s. For 
1155 kHz, the peak intensity ranged from 125 to 265 W/cm2 and the sonication times 
4.DISCUSSION / CONCLUSION 
Our results supported that the thermal lesions induced by high-frequency 
ultrasound were mainly attributable to ultrasound absorption, whereas, in 
low-frequency sonication, the occurrence of macroscopically-visible bubbles played 
an important role in thermal lesion formation. Compared with the smoothly 
continuous lesion shapes produced by sonication at the higher frequency (1155 kHz), 
the lower frequency (577 kHz) sonication induced fragmented and discontinuous 
tadpole-shaped lesions and this is believed mainly to be attributable to the 
sonication-induced cavities. 
 
This study demonstrated that low-frequency ultrasound sonication can induce 
cavities and block the transmission of 1155-kHz ultrasound both in a 
tissue-mimicking phantom and in ex vivo tissue. The macroscopically-visible bubbles 
were randomly and densely distributed along the path of the low-frequency ultrasound 
beam and served as an excellent barrier to the transmission of ultrasound in the 
subsequent sonication. One simple but reasonable hypothesis is that the energy 
reflected back in the source direction superimposed the transmitted energy to create a 
larger denatured area at the intersections of the 577- and 1155-kHz ultrasonic beams. 
While blocking the 1155-kHz ultrasound at the distal part of the focal beam, the 
lesion extended toward the transducer and formed a long tail, with the head located at 
the distal end away from the transducer. 
 
Fig. 1. System set-up for performing measurements in transparent 
phantoms and ex vivo tissues. 
 
 
 
