2etching after the GaN growth. A very unique property of LiAlO2 is that GaN grown on
(100) LiAlO2 substrates is M-plane (10-10) GaN, which places the polar c-axis in the
wafer’s plane. In this orientation, quantum confined stark effect (QCSE) which causes a
red-shift in emission can be eliminated [4,5].
The crystals quality and optical properties of GaN films grown on LiAlO2 substrates
were investigated by several groups. H.P. Maruska et al [6] reported that 2”free standing
GaN substrates grown on LiAlO2 crystals by using halide vapor phase epitaxy (HVPE)
method. Hellman et al. [7], Waltereit et al. [8] tried MBE method to grow the GaN
multiple quantum well structure on LiAlO2. Ke Xu et al. [9] also grew GaN on LiAlO2
material by using MOCVD technique.
However, there is very few information related to LiAlO2 crystals itself, especially its
defects. In the present work, it was reported that Czochralski (Cz) growth of γ-LiAlO2
crystals. The crystal’s quality and defect were characterized by optical polarizer,
chemical etching and electron microscope. An unique domain structure of LiAlO2 were
revealed. Except the domain structures, the presence of inclusion and chemical
decomposition were reported. The thermal expansion of LiAlO2 was also measured by
the X-ray diffraction at the different temperatures.
2. Experimental Procedure
Single LiAlO2 crystals was grown by Czochralski pulling method. A mixture of
99.99% purity of Li2CO3 and Al2O3 powder were used. In order to reduce the material’s
volume, the raw materials were compressed into the tablets and then heated in 1000oC for
10hrs. Since Li2O will volatilize severely during cooling and growth process, 6~10%
excess of Li2CO3 (in weight fraction) was added. Iridium crucible was used and an
iridium lid was to seal the crucible to prevent the melt from evaporating. If the crucible
was uncovered, the melt would deviate from stoichiometry because of Li evaporation.
Seed is along (100) a-axis. The pulling rate was 1~3mm/hr, and the rotation rate was
15~25rpm. The crystals growth atmosphere was pure nitrogen and the pressure is 1105
Pa. A suitable thermal field for LiAlO2 growth is by adding ZrO2 after-heater on the top
of the crucible. This can reduce the vertical temperature gradient and eliminate the
crystals decomposition.
The lattice parameters and quality of the LiAlO2 crystals were characterized by
Siemens D5000 X-ray diffraction spectrometer. Optical polarizer was to evaluate the
stress distribution. The growth defects were analyzed by chemical etching, SEM and
TEM.
3. Result and Discussion
Fig. 1 is the as-grown (100) LiAlO2 crystal. The top of the crystals showed an opaque
milky structure which results from the chemical decomposition. The lower part of the
crystals has many inclusions precipitated. Green laser was used to evaluate the crystal’s
overall quality. Laser beam was scattered by the voids and inclusions slightly. The voids
was caused by the high oxygen concentration. When the oxygen concentration continues
increasing and reaches its solubility limit, it will diffuse into the crystals and then form
the voids. The inclusions result from the non-stoichiometry of the melt. In addition, the
crystals surface is not very smooth. This is because the surface was etched by Li2O
evaporation during the crystal growth.
4electron beam is kept stationary on the material more than a few seconds, the material
will be vaporized. Fig. 7(a) is the view in (001) direction and its square diffraction pattern.
Since the specimen has a certain thickness, double diffraction pattern was found. As
noted before, the dislocation density is very low, no dislocations were observed in our
TEM sample. Fig 7(b) is the other (001) TEM image which showed an unique cross-
hatched pattern. This pattern reveals a superlattice structure. The possible reason is
because Li and Al atoms have the very different atomic diameters and bonding length,
they might exchange their lattice sites in this organized way to relieve the stress. These
site exchanges will cause the phase shift which results in the interference pattern.
4. Conclusion
In summary, Czochralski growth of LiAlO2 single crystals were investigated. The
micro-structure, defect study, and thermal expansion coefficient are also included in this
report. The serious chemical decomposition happened even though the ZrO2 after heater
was added. The as-grown LiAlO2 single crystals was identified as γ-phase and no phase
transition was found. The thermal expansion coefficients are 6.5010-6 oC-1 along a-axis,
and 14.9010-6 oC-1 along c-axis. Different surface morphologies which revealed the
crystals symmetry were characterized by the chemical etching technique (HCl: H2O = 1:1
at 80oC) and SEM. There exists a multi-domain structure along a-axis. Since LiAlO2 is
polar along a-axis, the formation of multi-domain is due to the polarity inversion. An
organized cross-hatched pattern was found in c-axis TEM specimen. This pattern might
be related to Li and Al atoms exchange their lattice sites and cause the phase shift in the
TEM image. The exact formation mechanism is still unknown.
Acknowledgments
This work is supported by National Science Council of Taiwan, NSC94-2218-E-110-
008 and Center for Nanoscience & Nanotechnology of National Sun Yat-Sen University.
References
1. S. Nakamura, Nitride Semiconductors Blue Lasers and Light Emitting Diode, CRC,
2000.
2. S. Nakamura, M. Senoh, S. Nagahama, N. Iwasa, T. Yamada, T. Matsushita, H.
Kiyoku, Y. Sigimoto, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 35 (1996) L74
3. S. Nakamura, G. Fosol, The Blue Laser. Springer Verlag, 1997.
4. B. Rau, P. Waltereit, O. Brandt, M. Ramsteiner, K.H. Ploog, J. Puls, F. Henneberger,
Appl. Phys. Lett. 77 (2000) 3343.
5. E. Kuokstis, C.Q. Chen, M.E. Gaevski, W.H. Sun, J.W. Yang, G. Simin, M. Asif
Khan, H.P. Maruska, D.W. Hill, M.C. Chou, J.J. Gallagher, B. Chai, Appl. Phys. Lett.
81 (2002) 4130.
6. H.P. Maruska, D.W. Hill, M.C. Chou, J.J. Gallagher, B. Chai, Opto-Electronics
Review. 11 (2003) 7.
7. E.S. Hellman, Z. Liliental-Weber, D.N.E. Buchanan, MRS Internet J. Nitride
Semicond. Res. 2 (1997) 30.
8. P. Waltereit, O. Brandt, K.H. Ploog, Appl. Phys. Lett. 75 (1999) 2029.
9. K. Xu, J.Xu, P. Deng, R. Qiu, Z. Fang, Phys. Stat. Sol. (a) 176 (1999) 589.
6(b)
Fig.3. Optical microscope images of polished LiAlO2 surface. (a) (100) place, (b) (001) plane.
(a)
Fig.4. Grain boundary of (100) LiAlO2 surface. Both grains have the similar
etching rate. Rectangular etched hillocks was found in the interface
