ABSTRACT 
 
Electrowetting on dielectric (EWOD) moving fluid by surface tension effects 
offers some advantages, including simplicity of fabrication, control of minute volumes, 
rapid mixing, low cost and others.  This work presents a numerical model using a 
commercial software, CFD-ACE+, and an EWOD system including a microfluidic 
device, a microprocessor, electric circuits, a LCD module, a keypad, a power supply 
and a power amplifier.  The EWOD model based on a reduced form of the mass 
conservation and momentum equations is adopted to simulate the fluid dynamics of the 
droplets.  The EWOD device consists of the 2 x 2 mm bottom electrodes (Au/Cr), a 
dielectric layer of 3000 Å nitride, 500 Å Teflon and a piece of indium tin oxide 
(ITO)-coated glass as the top electrode.  The complete EWOD phenomenon is 
elucidated by comparing simulation with the experimental data on droplet transportation, 
cutting and creation.  In transportation testing, the speed of the droplet is 6 mm/sec at 
40 Vdc.  In addition, the droplet division process takes 0.12 sec at 60 Vdc in the current 
case.  Finally, a 347 nl droplet is successfully created from an on-chip reservoir at 60 
Vdc. 
 
 
 
Keywords: Microfluidics; Electrowetting; EWOD; Microsystem; Surface tension 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. The principle of electrowetting 
It has been observed that a droplet spreads until it has reached a minimum free 
energy, determined by cohesive forces in the liquid and adhesion between the liquid and 
the surface.  The energy required to form an interface is determined by the surface 
tension (N/m) or surface free energy (J/m2) (γ ).  According to the work published by 
Verheijen et al. 2005, when a potential is applied, change in the electric charge 
distribution at the liquid/solid interface changes the free energy.  Figure 1 presents the 
edge of a droplet and the displacement of contact line.  The free energy (F) of the 
system can be written in differential form: 
 
cosSL SG LG edF dA dA dA dUγ γ γ θ= − + +                      (1) 
 
where  represents the energy required to establish an electric field between the 
liquid and the counter electrode.  
eU
γ  is interfacial tension of interface, in which the 
subscript L, G and S denotes liquid, gas and solid phases, respectively.  The contact 
angleθ  is that between the liquid/gas interface and the solid/liquid interface at the 
contact line.  In the first situation, no external voltage is applied.  Equilibrium and an 
energy minimum are reached when = 0 and dF/dA = 0, yielding Young’s equation,      eU
cosSL SG LGγ γ γ= − θ                                 (2) 
 
       cos SG SL
LG
γ γθ γ
−=                                  (3) 
 
Since the electrical double layer (EDL) is like the parallel plate capacitor, when an 
external voltage is applied, the EDL stores energy.  This stored energy may be written 
as 
2
2
QU
C
=                                     (4) 
where Q is the magnitude of the charge on either conductor and C is the capacitance of 
the parallel-plate capacitor.  C = Q/V is used in Eq. (4) to determine the stored energy 
in terms of voltage: 
2 2
2( ) 1
2 2 2
Q CVU
C C
= = = CV                               (5) 
Since only a small voltage drop can be sustained across the EDL, the change in the 
contact angle ( θΔ ) that can be induced by conventional electrowetting is relatively small.  
A thin dielectric layer inserted between the electrode and the liquid was discovered 
These two laws are adopted to develop a set of equations (known as the Navier-Stokes 
equations) for CFD-ACE+ to be solved numerically.  Conservation of mass requires 
that the time rate of change of mass in a control volume be balanced by the net mass 
flow into the same control volume: 
( )V
t
0ρ ρ∂ +∇ ⋅ =∂
r
                               (8) 
The fundamental equations of momentum conservation are as follows: 
( ) 2 x x
u p u v u u wu Vu F
t x x x y x y z z x
σ aρ ρ μ μ μ⎡ ⎤⎛ ⎞ ⎡ ⎤∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂⎡ ⎤ ⎛ ⎞+∇⋅ = − + + + + + + +⎢ ⎥⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂⎣ ⎦ ⎝ ⎠⎣ ⎦⎝ ⎠⎣ ⎦
r ρ           (9)              
( ) 2 x y
u p v u u v wv Vv F
t y x x x y x z z y
σ aρ ρ μ μ μ⎡ ⎤⎛ ⎞⎡ ⎤∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂⎛ ⎞ ⎡ ⎤+∇⋅ = − + + + + + + +⎢ ⎥⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂⎝ ⎠ ⎣ ⎦⎣ ⎦ ⎝ ⎠⎣ ⎦
r ρ          (10)              
( ) 2 z z
w p u w v w ww Vw F
t y x z x z z y z z
σ aρ ρ μ μ μ⎡ ⎤⎛ ⎞⎡ ⎤ ⎡ ⎤∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞+∇⋅ = − + + + + + + +⎢ ⎥⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠⎣ ⎦ ⎣ ⎦⎝ ⎠⎣ ⎦
r ρ          (11) 
 
where ρ (kg/ ) denotes density, μ (N．s/ ) is viscosity, P (Pa) is pressure, V (m/s) is 
velocity, 
3m 2m
zF
σ is the surface tension (N/m), and zaρ  (m/ ) is the acceleration due to 
gravity. 
2s
 
3.2  Free surface module 
The basis of the approach employed by the Free Surface Module is 
Volume-Of-Fluid (VOF), published in an early form elsewhere (Hirt and Nichols 1981) 
and recently extended (Rider et al. 1995).  The model can accommodate any two fluids 
that are incompressible and immiscible and between which localized slip is negligible. 
Water and air (when compressibility is insignificant) are good examples.  In this study, 
a VOF interface tracking method proposed by Hirt and Nichols is adopted to represent 
the fluid domain and track the evolution of the domain’s free boundaries. 
The defining characteristic of the VOF methodology is that the distribution of the 
second fluid (such as water) in the computational grid is described by a single scalar 
field variable, F, which specifies the fraction of the volume of each computational cell 
in the grid that is occupied by the second fluid (water).  Thus, F takes the value one in 
cells that contain only fluid 2 (water) and the value zero in cells that contain only fluid 1 
(air).  A cell that contains an interface would have an F value of between zero and one.  
The manner in which the volume fraction distribution F (and hence the distribution of 
fluid 2) evolves is determined by solving the passive transport equation. 
from a bottom plate with individually addressable electrodes and a top plate fabricated 
as a single, large electrode.  The process began with a 4”, N type, 500 μm thick (100) 
silicon wafer.  The wafer was covered by a layer of 3000 Å oxide (SiO2) and 3000 Å 
silicon nitride (Si3N4) as insulator using plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition 
(PECVD).  A layer of 150 Å chromium and 650 Å gold were evaporated by E-beam 
evaporator and patterned by photolithography as the bottom electrodes with the 
dimensions of 2 x 2 mm .  The electrodes were covered by a dielectric layer of silicon 
nitride (3000 Å) using PECVD.  Thin dielectric layers enable droplet actuation at low 
applied voltage and avoid electrolysis and bubble formation.  The silicon nitride on the 
electrode contact pads of the devices was etched by H3PO4.  The devices were then 
spin-coated with hexamethyldisilazane (HMDS, 4000 rpm, 50 s) and 1% Teflon-AF 
(3000 rpm, 30 s).  The devices were post-baked on a hotplate (160 ℃, 10 min) and in 
a furnace (260 ℃, 30 min) to produce a uniform ~500 Å layer of Teflon-AF.  The top 
plate was formed from indium tin oxide (ITO)-coated glass.  A 500 Å-thick layer of 
Teflon-AF was spin-coated on the ITO coated glass.  The two plates were joined using 
3M double-sided tape as a spacer to produce a gap with the height of 70 μm.  A 0.5 μl 
droplet of deionized water was sandwiched between the two plates and actuated by the 
applied voltage between the electrode on the top plate and successive electrodes on the 
bottom plate.  Droplet motion was observed using a microscope (Eclipse 50i, Nikon) 
and recorded by a color video camera (SSC-DC80, Sony).   
 
5.  Contact angle measurement 
Measurements of the contact angle change by EWOD were made in a water droplet 
using Contact Angle Goniometer (MagicDrop, USA).  The droplet was placed on a 
3000 Å dielectric layer of silicon nitride coated with 500 Å Teflon.  A wire was 
penetrated into the droplet from the top, and the dc potential was applied between the 
liquid and the electrode underneath the dielectric layers.  The dielectric layers of 
nitride and Teflon formed two plate capacitors in series.  The capacitance of a single 
capacitor is given by, 
 0rc
d
ε ε=                           (13) 
 
where c is the capacitance per unit area.  The equivalent capacitance of two capacitors 
in series can be obtained from the following. 
the droplet.  Figure 8 shows the experimental and numerical results of droplet 
transportation.  The droplet remained circular when no voltage was applied.  When 
the right electrode was activated, the droplet began to move to the next electrode due 
to the pressure difference associated with EWOD.  The transporting speed was about 
6 mm/s at 40 Vdc.   
Figure 9 shows the numeric and experimental results of droplet cutting.  Droplet 
division was successfully performed at 60 Vdc.  It was initially by the elongation of 
the droplet in the longitudinal direction and necking in the middle of the droplet.  In 
the beginning, the droplet occupied the entire middle electrode as well as a portion of 
each control electrode at the ends.  During stretching, the left and right electrodes 
were energized to make the two ends wetting so the contact angles reduced according 
to Eq. (7).  In the mean time, the middle electrode was grounded, keeping the middle 
section nonwetting (hydrophobic).  Consequently, the meniscus on the middle 
electrode started to contract in order to keep the total volume of the droplet constant.  
Finally, the neck was pinched off and cutting occurred.  In this case, the total cutting 
process took 0.12 sec.  
    To create a droplet from a reservoir on chip, liquid has to be first pulled out of the 
reservoir and separated from it.  Figure 10(a) demonstrates that the droplet could be 
created from a reservoir droplet by pulling liquid out along the electrode path at an 
applied voltage of 60 Vdc.  The process of droplet creation was highly associated with 
the cutting process.  When the front meniscus of liquid was pulled out of the reservoir 
by EWOD, the liquid continued to follow the leading meniscus to form a liquid column.  
Three control electrodes were used to complete the droplet creation as shown in Fig. 
10(a).  The switching interval of the electrodes was 1 second.  The first and second 
electrodes were sequentially activated from the right to the left.  When the front end of 
the column reached the third electrode, the first and third electrodes were activated and 
the second electrode was turned off.  The electrode in the reservoir was also activated 
to generate a sufficient pressure difference to complete the cutting.  Accordingly, 
droplet necking occurred on the second electrode and then the liquid column was pulled 
back to the reservoir.  The volume of the created droplet was around 347 nl measured 
by AutoCAD.  Figure 10(b) indicates that the numerical model successfully simulated 
the process of droplet creation. 
 
 
C.-S. Liao, G.-B. Lee, J.-J. Wu, C.-C. Chang, T.-M. Hsieh, F.-C. Huang and C.-H. Luo, 
Micromachined polymerase chain reaction system for multiple DNA amplification 
of upper respiratory tract infectious diseases, Biosensors and Bioelectronics, 2005, 
20, 1341-1348. 
J.-H. Tsai and L. Lin, Active microfludic mixer and gas bubble filter driven thermal 
bubble micropump, Sensor and Actuator A, 2002, 97-98, 665-671. 
H. Ren, R. B. Fair and M. G. Pollack, “Automated on-chip droplet dispensing with 
volume control by electro-wetting actuation and capacitance metering”, Sensors and 
Actuators B 98 (2004) 319-327. 
V. Srinivasan, V. K. Pamula, M. G. Pollack, and R. B. Fair, “A digital microfluidic 
biosensor for multianalyte detection”, in IEEE 16th Annual International 
Conference on Micro Electro Mechanical Systems, 2003, pp. 327–330. 
F. Cattaneo, K. Baldwin, S. Yang, T. Krupenkine, S. Ramachandran, and J. A. Rogers, 
“Digitally tunable microfluidic optical fiber devices”, Journal of 
Microelectromechanical Systems, vol. 12, no. 6, pp. 907–912, 2003. 
T. Roques-Carmes, R. A. Hayes, B. J. Feenstra, and L. J. M. Schlangen, “Liquid 
behavior inside a reflective display pixel based on electrowetting”,  Journal of 
Applied Physics, vol. 95, no. 8, pp. 4389–4396, 2004. 
H. J. J. Verheijen and M. W. J. Prins, ”Reversible Electro- wetting and Trapping of 
Charge: Model and Experiments”, Philips Research Laboratories Eindhoven, 
Received May 7, 1999. In Final Form: August 2, 1999 
Lippman G, Relation Entre Les, “Phenomens electriues et capillaries”, Ann. Chim. Phys, 
1875 ; 5 ; 494-59. 
C. W. Hirt and B. D. Nichols, "Volume of Fluid (VOF) Method for the Dynamics of 
Free Boundaries", Journal of Computational Physics, Vol. 39, pp.201-225, 1981. 
W. J. Rider, D. B. Kothe, S. J. Mosso, J. H. Cerrutti, and J. I. Hochstein, "Accurate 
solution algorithms for incompressible multiphase fluid flows," AIAA Paper, 
95-0699, 1995. 
Noh, W. F. and Woodward, P. R., "SLIC Simple Line Interface Method)." In A.I. van de 
Vooren and P.J. Zandbergen, editors, Lecture Notes in Physics 59, pp. 330-340 
1976. 
D.L. Youngs, Num. Met., “Fluid Dyn”, Academic Press, New York, 1982, pp. 273–285. 
W.J. Rider, D.B. Kothe, J. ,”Comput. Phys”, 141 (1998) 112–152. 
D. Gueyffier, J. Li, A. Nadim, R. Scardovelli, S. Zaleski, J. ,“Comput.Phys”, 152 (1999) 
 
 
Figure 1  Virtual displacement of the contact line  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                      
(a) Actual interface  
 
  
(b) SLIC 
 
 
 
(c) PLIC 
 
Figure 3  Schematic diagram of free surface reconstructions: (a) actual interface; (b) 
SLIC approximation; (c) PLIC approximation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5  Schematic of cross-sectional view of the device  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
ATmega8535
LCD
keypad
Electric circuit EWOD    
  Chip
 
             
Figure 7  Driving system of EWOD 
 
 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
OFF OFFOFF
  
OFF ONON
 
 t=0 sec              t=0.033sec   
 
   
t=0.099               t=0.12sec 
  
(a)   
 
 
(m)  (m) 
t = 0 sec                       t = 0.033sec   
 
(m)  (m) 
t = 0.099                        t = 0.12sec 
   
(b)  
      
Figure 9   Cutting of a droplet at 60 Vdc: (a) experimental results; (b) simulation 
results  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
