II 
中文摘要: 
本研究完成一個蛋白質工程的分析平台，此平台能由幫助使用者鑑定蛋白質，並透過計算能
預測蛋白質突變(mutant)點以提高蛋白質的熱穩定性(thermostability)。蛋白質體研究的
主要步驟為複雜的蛋白質混和物的分離及呈現，大多時候均以二維膠片電泳分析（2D gel 
electrophoresis），再以質譜儀（如 MALTI-TOF 或 LC-MS mass spectrometry）來分析驗證
蛋白質。蛋白質身份鑑定後可進一步對蛋白質做變化了解這個蛋白質的性質與特性。 
  本計劃初期建立高速計算之胺基酸序列資料庫供蛋白質身份鑑定為主要項目。此胺基酸序
列資料庫可以提供多種長度的胺基酸序列儲存與查詢。並針對胺基酸序列資料庫中不同長度
以及物重做分析及統計資料。根據這些資料到蛋白質資料庫做搜尋以辨認一新的蛋白質。 
  本計劃中期建立了 PGTdb (Prokaryotic Growth Temperature database). 一個包含微生
物的生長溫度與最是生長溫度。PGTdb 主要是用人工從文獻中將生長溫度與最是生長溫度記
錄入資料庫，並整合了物種相關的去氧核醣核酸序列以及蛋白質序列與結構。蛋白質的熱穩
定性與宿主的最適生長溫度息息相關，蛋白質的 Tm 與宿主的最適生長溫度線性相關的關係。
所以此資料庫不只對微生物學家培養微生物有關，更對蛋白質學家研究蛋白質結構與熱穩定
性有許多貢獻。PGTdb 是 Ineternet 上第一個的儲存最適生長溫度的並整合去氧核醣核酸序
列、蛋白質序列、蛋白質結構與演化資訊的整合性資料庫。 
  本計劃後期針對蛋白質的熱穩定特性做進一步的分析與處理，嘗試預測並透過計算預測蛋
白質突變(mutant)點以提高蛋白質的熱穩定性(thermostability)以期增加以此蛋白質做為
酵素或其他生物應用時能更廣泛的使用。 
 
研究成果可參考http://pgtdb.csie.ncu.edu.tw 
 
關鍵字 : 蛋白質體學，熱穩定，資料探勘 
 
IV 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. Introduction  ……….………………………………………………………….. 1 
2. Method  …………. .………………………………. . .………………. . . . . .  3 
3. Result      ……………………………………………………... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6 
4. Conclusions ………………..……………………………………………………… 24 
5. References ………………………………………………………………………….. 25 
6. 計劃成果自評 …………..……………………………………………………….. 27 
Appendix ……………………………………………………………………………28 
2 
despite the differences among their sequences and structural folds 
8
. Proteins from thermophilic 
organisms (which exist at high ambient temperatures) typically exhibit considerably higher 
intrinsic thermal stabilities than their mesophilic counterparts, but retain the basic fold 
characteristics of the entire family 
9
.  
Recent work 
6
 has demonstrated that motif is critical to the thermostability of some families of 
proteins, but only point mutations in the motif region have been considered. What if motif blocks 
on mesophilic proteins differ from those of thermophilic ones? This investigation seeks to provide 
information that is both complementary and orthogonal to that provided in 
6
. The aim is to analyze 
further the differences among motif blocks of mesophilic and thermophilic proteins and to 
determine whether a protein family has a distinguishing mesophilic/thermophilic motif.  
This investigation proposes a method for identifying and comparing corresponding mesophilic 
and thermophilic sequence motifs between Pfam protein families and conserved orthologous 
groups. Previous research 
6
 attempted to answer the question, “How well are motif pairs conserved 
between mesophilic and thermophilic subfamilies?”. This investigation takes a different approach 
to answer the question, “To what extent do the motifs conserved in mesophilic subfamilies differ 
from those conserved in thermophilic subfamilies?” Both questions are biologically important 
because motifs commonly refer to the regions of the protein that are critical to functionality and 
structural stability 
6
. The proposed approach successfully identifies some discriminative motifs, 
which are conserved only in the mesophilic or the thermophilic subfamily but are not conserved in 
their counterpart temperature subfamilies. The results indicate that while the subfamilies of most 
protein families share similar motifs, certain thermophilic/mesophilic subfamilies exhibit 
discriminative motifs. These discriminative motifs are conserved only in thermophilic organisms, 
which fact demonstrates the physiochemical principles that confer thermostability. 
Non-discriminative conservation motifs in specific subfamilies highlight the importance of motif 
to structure and function, whereas discriminative motifs are associated thermostability. 
4 
using protein family definition in Pfam 
13
 version 11. Sequences of proteins in the COG 
11
 (updated 
version, 66 genome, 2003-Dec) database are divided into orthogonal groups. The proteins are then 
assigned a temperature based on source organism’s optimal growth temperature in PGTdb 
10
 
version 1.0. Accordingly, each protein family is divided into two subfamilies - thermophilic and 
mesophilic – by temperature. Protein sequences for which information on the optimal growth 
temperature their source organisms is absent from the PGTdb are discarded.  
“Conserved” cannot be defined on a subfamily that contains only a single protein sequence. 
Accordingly, motif-discovering tools require more than two sequences to locate the conserved 
region. Thus, if one of the two subfamilies contains fewer than two sequences, then the analysis of 
this family cannot proceed and the family is eliminated. The elimination leaves 887 Pfam families 
and 2191 COG families. Motifs of each subfamily are identified using MEME version 3.0.4 
14,15
. 
MEME is the most commonly employed motif-discovery tool that has been adapted to discovery 
motifs 
6,16
. MEME stands for multiple expectation maximization for motif elicitation and is applied 
to identify conserved regions in a set of DNA or protein sequences without gaps. The following 
parameters (mostly default) are used: minimum and maximum motif widths of six and 50, a motif 
model biased toward zero or one motif occurrence per sequence, FASTA format motif output and a 
maximum motif search number of three.  
Second, the profile HMM 
17,18
 is employed to establish a model of each motif region. The 
simple MAST search tool of the MEME was not used as a model scanning tool herein because the 
MAST is too sensitive to position and building the HMM model will relax the model to match 
various patterns of proteins. The profile HMMs are generated using the HMMER package
1
 
version 2.3.2, which is an implementation of profile HMM software for analyzing protein 
sequences 
17,18
. The profile HMM is generated by inputting the motif FASTA file with the default 
                                                 
1
 http://hmmer.wustl.edu/ 
6 
investigation is set to 95%. The t test used for small families (fewer than 23 members) involves the 
same hypothesis setting 
19
 and thus omitted here. A motif that is associated with a statistically 
significant difference is defined as a discriminative motif.  
Results 
MEME identified 5309 motifs in 887 Pfam families. Accordingly, most families contain six 
motifs (three from the mesophilic subfamily and three from the thermophilic subfamily). Among 
these 5309 motifs, only 1056 are discriminative. That is, 19.8% of the motifs discovered by 
MEME are discriminative. Over 80% motifs are not discriminative, and represent the conserved 
regions of both mesophilic and thermophilic sequences. These non-discriminative motifs may 
contain conserved mutations that are associated with thermostability, as displayed in La et al.’s 
investigation
6
. Mesophilic and thermophilic subfamilies exhibit different motif models, rather than 
single mutations, since 19.8% of motifs are discriminative. Previous work6 of La et al. ignored these 
discriminative motifs, which nevertheless exhibit significant differences across protein subfamilies 
at various temperatures. Figure 2(a) presents the distribution of the number of discriminative 
motifs in Pfam families; 458 of the 887 families contain at least one discriminative motif; 422 of 
the 1056 discriminative motifs are derived from mesophilic subfamily sequences and 634 are 
derived from thermophilic subfamily sequences. Figure 2(a) demonstrates that half of the protein 
families contain discriminative motifs and most families have fewer than three discriminative 
motifs. 19.8% of motifs are discriminative and one third of protein families contain at least one 
discriminative motif. If the probability that a motif is discriminative is uniformly 19.8%, then the 
probability that a protein contains at least one discriminative motif is as high as approximately 
73% (1-(1-0.198)
6
). Figure 2(a) indicates that the distribution of discriminate motifs does not vary 
uniformly across the protein families. That is, the discriminative motif is a family-specific feature, 
and some protein families tend to contain more discriminative motifs than others. Figure 2(b) 
8 
uniformly distributed on families yields the result that 97.7% of protein families contain at least 
one discriminative motif; however, the real distribution is only 81%. This assumption also leads to 
the result that approximately 1% of protein families contain exactly six discriminative motifs, but 
in fact, over 12% do. Hence, the distributions of discriminative motifs are also not uniform across 
COG protein families. By comparing the distribution of Pfam and COG in Figure 2(a) shows that 
the orthogonal groups in COG contain more discriminative motifs. 
The matching ratio R is defined as (number of sequences in the subfamily that match the motif 
model) / (total number of sequences in subfamily). Consider the motif generated from subfamily; 
search it self with a matching ratio defined as Rself and search the counter-part subfamily with a 
matching ratio defined as Rcounterpart. Figure 3 plots the matching ratio of the Pfam and COG motifs. 
First, the Rself curve in Figure 3 clearly demonstrates that most Rself close to 1. The high Rself 
demonstrate the high quality of motif. Next, the Rcounterpart curve is considered. 
 
Figure 3. Matching ratio of Pfam and COG families. The right peak refers to the motif shared by both 
the mesophilic and the thermophilic subfamilies. The left peak indicates that the motif model cannot 
match any of the counterpart subfamily sequences.  
Figure 3 includes two peaks of Rcounterpart – the one on the right (close to 1) represents the 
10 
discriminative motifs, as shown in Figure 4. Not all of the motifs with Rcounterpart of 0 ~ 0.05 failed 
to pass the statistical Z test, suggesting that this statistical test was required to filter out poor 
quality motifs that did not match sequences of both subfamilies. 
The mean lengths of the protein and the motifs are also analyzed. The average length of the 
mesophilic Pfam proteins in PGTdb is 387.41 residues and that of the thermophilic proteins and is 
361.82 residues. The standard deviation of the mesophilic protein length is 280.62, whereas that of 
the thermophilic protein length is 252.95. The z value is 8.56, indicating that the thermophilic 
proteins are shorter than the mesophilic proteins. The average length of all motifs is 35.49. The 
average length of motifs built from mesophilic subfamilies is 34.48. The average length of the 
motifs built from thermophilic subfamilies is 36.63. Although thermophilic sequences are 
generally shorter then mesophilic sequences, the motifs built from thermophilic subfamilies are 
slightly longer then those built from mesophilic subfamilies. The average length of discriminative 
motifs is 30.69 whereas that of non-discriminative motifs is 36.46. Accordingly, discriminative 
motifs are much shorter than non-discriminative motifs. The discriminative mesophilic motifs have 
a mean length of 31.32 and the discriminative thermophilic motifs have a mean length of 29.94. 
Thus, the discriminative motifs are short, and the discriminative thermophilic motifs are even 
shorter. The non-discriminative motifs exhibit an opposite relationship: the non-discriminative 
thermophilic motifs have a mean length of 37.93, which exceeds that, 35.14, of non-discriminative 
mesophilic motifs.  
A leave-one-out cross-validation is conducted to assess further the predictive ability and the 
modeling consistency of the discriminative motif model. The validation process is as follows.  
1. For each sequence “i” in each the family F with n sequences,  
i. Assume the sequence i is not part of family F, construct motif models and test the 
model with rest of the sequences of F except “i”. The number of motif models are 
NDMi discriminative mesophilic, NDTi discriminative thermophilic, NNMi non 
12 
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
6~15 16~30 31~45 46~60 61~100 100~150 151~200
Family size (#sequences)
Pr
ed
ict
 ab
ali
ty
PA_DM
PA_DT
PA_NM
PA_NT
 
Figure 6. Result of cross-validation. The predict ability (PA) of specific type of motif is the number of specific type 
motif divided by the total number of specify motif generated. The predict ability of discriminative mesophilic motif, 
discriminative thermophilic motif, non-discriminative mesophilic motif and non-discriminative thermophilic motif 
denoted PA_DM, PA_DT, PA_NM and PA_NT, respectively. The predict ability are grouped and averaged by family 
size. The predict ability of thermophilic discriminative motif rises while family size increase. Mesophilic 
discriminative motifs have higher predict ability then the thermophilic discriminative motifs.  
The process flow of cross-validation is shown in Figure 5. The result of predictive ability of 
each family will be difference. We plot the family size (number of sequences) versus predictive 
ability of each family in Figure 6. In Figure 6, families are being grouped to summarize the 
results. There are less family of size larger then 60; accordingly, the group region of is larger for 
family size larger then 60. Figure 6 shows that the predict ability of discriminative thermophilic 
motif increase when the family size arise. Figure 6 also shows that non-discriminative motif have 
predictive ability more then 60%. Non-discriminative motifs and discriminative mesophilic motif 
have largest predictive ability on family size about 31 to 45. The predictive ability of 
discriminative thermophilic motif is lower then other type of motifs but is catching up with others 
when family size is larger. There are more mesophilic sequences in a protein family. Accordingly, 
we can expect a predictive ability increase when more temperature information is available. The 
14 
characteristic during cross-validation.  
The above analysis indicates that the discriminative motif is not a general phenomenon for all 
protein families. Discriminative motifs are present only in some protein families. The 
discriminative motif results are most informative when applied in concert with structural 
investigations. Specific factors that contribute to the thermostability of a protein in a particular 
family can be identified from structural studies
3,4,20,21
, from conserved mutations in the motif 
region
6
, and from the consideration of discriminative motifs. The molecular basis of 
thermostability is examined for each family, and the hidden relationship between ion-pair and the 
presence of discriminative motif is elucidated. The protein sequence and structural mapping were 
obtained from iProClass
2
 
22
 and protein structures were obtained from the Protein Data Bank 
(PDB)
3
 
23
. The protein structure with the maximum sequence similarity was selected and duplicate 
structures removed for each protein sequence. A total of 612 subunit structures are associated with 
the Pfam protein sequences in PGTdb. The generated motif models are employed to search for the 
sequences of the 612 subunit structures; only 308 subunit structures include discriminative motifs.  
Table 1. Ion-pair densities of various protein regions. The density of ion-pairs does not vary among subunits, the motif 
region and the discriminative motif region. Thermophilic protein contains more ion-pairs per residue than does 
mesophilic protein). 
 
Ion-pair number
 
Residue
number of the 
region
Ion-pairs 
per residue
Residues distance  between 
ion-pairs 
Entire subunit 8361 88307 0.09 10.56 
Mesophilic 
entire subunit 3536 46710 0.08 13.21 
Thermophilic 
entire subunit 4825 41597 0.12 8.62 
Motif region 3877 43286 0.09 11.16 
Mesophilic 
Motif 2781 30505 0.09 10.97 
Thermophilic 
Motif 2818.5 28473 0.10 10.10 
                                                 
2
 http://pir.georgetown.edu/iproclass/ 
3
 http://www.rcsb.org/pdb/ 
16 
discriminative motif region are similar to those of the whole sequence, but the following question 
remains: does the ion-pair in the motif region contain more information that could be used to 
increase the accuracy of the prediction of thermostability? The Bayesian thermostability prediction 
model 
24
 was applied to the different ion-pair distributions to its accuracy. The normalized number 
of different types (His-Asp, Arg-Asp, Lys-Asp, His-Glu, Arg-Glu, Lys-Glu) and strengths (2 - 4Å, 
4 - 6Å, 6 - 8Å) of ion-pairs are calculated as ion-pair properties for each protein structures at 
different temperatures 
24
. A probabilistic Bayesian statistical method for efficiently predicting the 
thermostability of proteins according to the properties of their ion pairs has been presented 
24
, and 
high accuracy has been achieved in the cross-validation of three protein families (α-amylase, 
glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase and Xylanase), indicating that ion-pairs critically 
influence the thermostability in particular protein families. Figure 8 presents the results predicted 
using the ion-pair Bayesian models established by the three protein family in 
24
. Figure 8 shows 
that, although the distribution of ion-pairs in the motif region does not diff markedly from that over 
the entire sequence, incorporating the number of ion-pairs on the motif increased the overall 
accuracy of the Bayesian prediction model. This result confirms La et al. ’s findings 
6
 that the 
ion-pair in the motif region is associated with thermostability. The ion-pair on the discriminative 
motif further increases the overall accuracy of the Bayesian model, suggesting that the discovery 
of the discriminative motif may improve the accuracy of the prediction of thermostability. The 
accuracy is not as high as 75% as in 
24
, since the model whose accuracy is predicted in 
24
 uses only 
three families , whereas the experiment in Figure 8 involves proteins from 176 protein families. 
The density of disulfide bonds is also determined. A total of 193 disulfide bonds are observed on 
308 structures; 85 of them are located on the motif region and 12 are located on the discriminative 
motif region. The distribution of disulfide bonds varies across the motif region but this assertion 
cannot be confidently drawn based on so such limited statistics. 
18 
presented in ProTherm
4
 
28
. Two site-directed mutants (L78K and L78R) have been designed to 
study the effect of placing a charged residue in the hydrophobic core of the protein; thermal 
denaturation of both of these mutant proteins at pH 7.0 reduces the stability by approximately 4 
kcal.mol-1 below that of the oxidized wild-type 
29
. The investigation 
29
 demonstrated that the 
replacement of proline-76 with alanine eliminates the slowest kinetic phase in thioredoxin folding 
30
. A single point mutation of glutamate 85 to arginine increases the stability of the thioredoxin 
31
. 
Polar residues of thioredoxin are important to the specificity of folding; five polar core residues 
(D26I, C32A, C35A, T66L and T77V) have been studied 
32
. D26I is more stable than wild-type, 
whereas the other point mutants are less stable. Other mutation points associated with 
thermostability include proline 34 
33
, methionine 37 
34
 and proline 40 
34
. Among the 11 mutant 
residues (D26, C32, P34, C35, M37, P40, T66, P76, T77, L78 and E85), four are in the 
discriminative motif region (position: 76 – 85), which was identified using presented approach. 
Again, the sequence length of 2TRX is 108 residues and the random hit probability of the residues 
in the motif area is only 1/10. A single mutation of E85 increases the stability by forming 
additional H-bonds 
31
, revealing that the discriminative motif is an ideal mutant target for 
increasing/reducing thermostability. Figure 9 presents the positions of the mutation targets in 
earlier investigations and the discriminative motifs identified herein. 
                                                 
4
 http://gibk26.bse.kyutech.ac.jp/jouhou/jouhoubank.html 
20 
two mesophilic discriminative motifs (pos: 163~188, 25AA and 190~239, 50AA). Accordingly, 
1GD1 is not a very good example of the discriminative motif as a thermophilic protein should 
contain more thermophilic discriminative motifs and fewer mesophilic discriminative motifs. 
However, 1GD1 is an ideal case for showing the motif in a single structure with a known structural 
mutation. Figure 10 demonstrates that discriminative motifs between mesophilic and thermophilic 
sequences are generally on the surface of the protein. Most of the intra-subunit positions 
considered in 
36
 are generally close to the their positions on the discriminative motif region. 
Previous works 
37-39
 point out the importance of surface ion pairs on thermostability. Most of these 
positions are exposed to solvent, indicating the importance of the charge composition on the 
surface of thermophilic proteins. Additionally, the results herein provide evidence that cannot be 
obtained from small protein families, which are associated with a limited structural data set and the 
observed structural differences may not be conserved in global evolution. Figure 11 presents the 
multiple structure alignment of the six structures of the GAPDH family, 1B7G, 1CF2, 1CER, 
1HDG, 1GD1 and 1GAD. The multiple structure alignment in Figure 11 was elucidated using 
MASS
5
 
40
 and is presented using a Swiss-Pdb Viewer
6
 
41
. Figure 11 presents depicts the 
discriminative mesophilic motif located on the surface of the subunit in the catalytic domain and 
the discriminative thermophilic motif, which is generally located in the NAD domain and on the 
surface. Figure 12 presents the partial multiple sequence alignment of the GAPDH family (NAD 
domain at the C-terminal of the protein). The red characters refer to the discriminative motif region. 
Dark grey, medium grey and light grey represent strong, medium and weak ion-pair strengths, 
respectively. The positions of the ion-pairs on the discriminative motif clearly differ from those of 
the ion-pairs on the corresponding aligned region. Accordingly, the ion-pairs on the discriminative 
motif may contribute differently to the thermostability of homologs. 
                                                 
5
 http://bioinfo3d.cs.tau.ac.il/MASS 
6
 http://www.expasy.org/spdbv/ 
22 
Different region Amino Acid composition
0
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.1
0.12
A C D E F G H I K L M N P Q R S T V W Y
Amino Acid
Co
mp
os
itio
n
Mesophilic sequences
Non-discriminativet mesophilic motif region 
Discriminative mesophilic motif region
Thermophilic sequences
Non-discriminative thermophilic motif region
Discriminative thermophilic motif region
 
Figure 13. Amino acid composition of Pfam proteins in PGTdb. Results for the whole sequence are 
almost identical to those (obtained by OR of ) La et al., 
6
 (but the variance is lower OR except in that 
the variance is smaller). Thermophilic sequences contain more Glutamic acid (E) and valine (V) than 
mesophilic sequences. Motif regions contain more cysteine (C), proline (P), threonine (T) and 
tyrosine(Y) but less lysine and leucine (L) than complete sequences. The region of discriminative motifs 
contains more cysteine(C) and proline (P) but less alanine (A) and glycine (G) than regions of 
non-discriminative motifs motif regions. 
The amino acid composition and average protein length of the Pfam proteins in PGTdb are 
also presented. Figure 13 presents the analysis of the amino acid composition of the mesophilic 
sequences. Similar analyses have been reported elsewhere 
6,9,20,42-44
. All of the results herein agree 
with those reported elsewhere, except that the variance is smaller here and the motif vs. non-motif 
distinctions are also provided here. Figure 13 shows the plot with a 95% confidence interval. A 
statistical Z test is conducted to compare the amino acid compositions; unsurprisingly, the contents 
of all amino acids, except glycine, differ statistically significantly across subfamilies. Figure 13 
also presents the amino acid composition associated with each different motif regions. 
Thermophilic sequences contain more Glutamic acid (E) and valine (V) than mesophilic sequences. 
Motif regions contain more cysteine (C), proline (P) and threonine (T) than whole sequences. 
24 
Table 2 presents differences between the results of this investigation and those of La et al.
6
. La 
et  al. 
6
 focused on conserved mutations in motifs, whereas this study focused on discriminative 
motifs across subfamilies at different temperatures. Hence, this work complements that of La et 
al.
6
 and provides orthogonal information concerning the thermostability of motifs. Data on amino 
acid contents are presented and average protein lengths compared.  
Conclusions 
This proteomic analysis identifies protein motifs on Pfam families and COG orthogonal 
groups. Comparisons of motifs of corresponding mesophilic and thermophilic subfamilies yield 
key features that are associated with the thermostability of proteins. The discovered two-peak 
match ratio of the motifs clearly demonstrates the value of the discriminative motif methods in the 
analyses performed herein. The leave-one-out cross validation shows the predictive ability of the 
method. The discriminative of larger family has higher predictive ability. Subfamilies containing 
three discriminative motifs are also shown to have higher predictive ability. Additionally, the utility 
of this approach is demonstrated by the ion-pair thermostability prediction model and works of 
structural examples that yield insights into thermostability. The results obtained using the 
thermostability prediction model highlight the importance of the discriminative motif, and the 
discovery of discriminative motifs improves the accuracy of the prediction of thermostability. The 
results also show the importance of discriminative motifs in structure stabilization. Moreover, an 
example of the GAPDH family is presented, suggesting that the discriminative motif enriches the 
structural analysis and identifies more factors that are associated with thermostability. Each motif 
and the related alignments in this investigation are also presented in web-pages in PGTdb 
10
26 
41. Guex, N.; Peitsch, M. C. Electrophoresis 1997, 18(15), 2714-2723. 
42. Fukuchi, S.; Nishikawa, K. J Mol Biol 2001, 309(4), 835-843. 
43. Jaenicke, R.; Bohm, G. Methods Enzymol 2001, 334, 438-469. 
44. Chakravarty, S.; Varadarajan, R. Biochemistry 2002, 41(25), 8152-8161. 
 
 
28 
Appendix 
本計劃發表之相關論文: 
S. L. Huang, L. C. Wu, H. K. Laing, K.T. Pan, and J. T. Horng, "PGTdb: a database 
providing growth temperatures of prokaryotes," Bioinformatics, Vol. 20,no 2, pp. 276-278, 
2004. (SCI, PubMed) (2004 Impact Factor: 5.742)  
   
S. L. Huang, L. C. Wu, H. D. Huang, H. K. Liang, K. T. Pan, M. T. Ko, and J. T. Horng, "A 
Probabilistic Method to Correlate Ion-pairs to Protein Thermostability," Applied 
Bioinformatics, Vol. 3, no. 1, pp. 21-29, 2004. (PubMed) 
 
J. T. Horng, L. C. Wu, C. M. Lin, and Bing-He Yang "A genetic algorithm for multiple 
sequence alignment", Soft Computing - A Fusion of Foundations, Methodologies and 
Applications, Vol. 9,no. 6 , pp. 407-420, 2005. 
   
H. D. Huang, T. Y. Lee, L. C. Wu, F. M Lin, H. F. Juan, J. T. Horng, and A. P. Tsou, 
"MultiProtIdent: Identifying Proteins Using Database Search and Protein-Protein Interactions 
", Journal of Proteome Research, Vol. 4, Issue 3. pp. 690-697, 2005. (SCI) (2004 Impact 
Factor: 6.917).  
 
H. D. Huang, T. Y. Lee, S. W. Tseng, L. C. Wu, J. T. Horng, and A. P. Tsou, "Incorporating 
Hidden Markov Model for Identifying Protein Kinase-specific Phosphorylation Sites." 
Journal of Computational Chemistry, Vol. 26, Issue 10, pp. 1032-1041, 2005. (SCI), (2004 
Impact Factor: 3.168).   
 
H. D. Huang, J. T. Horng, L. C. Wu, and S. F. Fang "Discovering common structural motifs 
of ribosomal rna secondary structures in prokaryotes", International Journal on Articial 
Intelligence Tools, Vol. 14, No. 4 ,2005, 621-639, 2005. 
 
L.C. Wu, J.T. Horng, S.L. Huang, H.D. Huang, and B.J. Liu, "Detection of discriminative 
sequence motifs in proteins obtained from prokaryotes grown at various temperatures" , 
Journal of Computational Chemistry, Vol. 27, Issue 6, pp. 798-808, 2006. (2004 Impact 
Factor: 3.168)  
 
T.Y. Lee, J.T. Horng, H.F. Juan, H.D. Huang, L.C. Wu, M.F. Tsai, H.C. Huang, "An 
Agent-Based System to Discover Protein-Protein Interactions, Identify Protein Complexes 
and Proteins with Multiple Peptide Mass Fingerprints", Journal of Computational Chemistry, 
Vol. 27, Issue 9, pp.1020-1032, 2006. (2004 Impact Factor: 3.168)  
 
Y.C. Fang, W.H. Sun, L.C. Wu, H.D. Huang, H.F. Juan, J.T. Horng. (2006) “RINGdb: An 
integrated database for G protein-coupled receptors and regulators of G protein signaling” 
BMC Genomics, 2006, 7:317. 
 
Feng-Mao Lin, Hsien-Da Huang, Yu-Chung Chang, Ann-Ping Tsou, Pak-Leong Chan, 
Li-Cheng Wu, Meng-Feng Tsai, and Jorng-Tzong Horng, “Database to Dynamically Aid 
Probe Design for Virus Identification”, IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in 
Biomedicine, Vol. 10, No.00, 2006. 
