 II
（二）中英文摘要與關鍵字 
中文摘要：在濾波電路結構中，懸浮帶線與共面波導雖然較少出現在微波電路中（以比較微帶線），
然而他們天生所具有一些優異的特質使得這兩種傳輸線結構，或許比之其他傳輸線結構更適於微波電
路的製作。其中如共面波導因其信號線與接地面位於同一平面，與半導體元件與集總元件有較佳之統
整性。懸浮帶線封於金屬遮蔽物內，使其具有較佳的電磁干擾耐受度，同時基板上下之空氣層，也使
得接地面之電場分佈較均勻，減少金屬傳導損耗，在高頻的應用上優於微帶線。另外與共面波導有著
相同的性質，懸浮帶線之空氣層結構有效降低電路之等效介電質常數，使得電路之特性抗對於線寬尺
寸之製造誤差寬容度較廣。 
懸浮帶線結構對於濾波電路已被證實為一具有多用途和低損耗的傳輸線系統媒介，不只傳輸線諧
振濾波器可利用此方法製作，甚至結合低損耗和微小電路的似集總元件（quasi-lumped element）電路
濾波器亦可設計之，而共面波導則具有絕佳之元件統整性。基於上述之優點，本計劃將探討與設計以
懸浮基板結構及共面波導之結構所構成的濾波電路；分別提出利用懸浮帶線結構設計的低通、高通、
雙工電路等濾波電路，以及提出以共面波導之多樣變異結構所組成之濾波電路。研究與計算電路結構
中等效於集總元件之電容與電感效應，並以此設計帶通、低通、高通與多工電路等。同時計劃中將進
一步提出適用於 UWB 系統的帶通濾波電路，同時尋求有效之方法降低電路所佔之面積與減少電路之
嵌入損耗與返回損耗。 
關鍵詞：懸浮帶線、濾波器、集總元件合成電路、超寬頻。 
 
Abstract: In this report, quasi-lumped design of filters using the suspended stripline (SSL) is demonstrated. 
The proposed SSL filters have achieved the benefits of size compactness, extremely low insertion losses, low 
dispersion, high operation frequency, and sometimes the wide stopband bandwidth. The filters presented in 
this paper include low-pass filters (LPFs), high-pass filters (HPFs), and a sample bandpass filter (BPF). The 
BPF is implemented by a cascade of an LPF and an HPF, which together form an ultra-wideband (UWB) BPF 
that covers a frequency range from 3.1 to 10.6 GHz. All of the mentioned filters are analyzed by their 
equivalent circuit models based on lumped elements approach. The plotted curves of calculated data obtained 
from equivalent circuit models and those from the commercial electromagnetic software vs. the dimensions of 
the SSL filters are given in the figures. Experiments are conducted to verify the filters’ performance. 
Keywords: Quasi-lumped element, filter, suspended stripline, ultra-wideband. 
 
 2
patches with the novel I-beam ones, both have lumped-elements circuit models developed to analyze the 
performance. In the SSL BPF approach, a sample UWB filter which is granted unlicensed use of UWB in 
3.1-10.6 GHz is presented to demonstrate the lumped-elements BPF design. 
Several other researchers also presented the SSL-like filter structures [15, 16]. Among them, some lacked 
the adjustable parameters for wide stopband requirement. To alleviate this deficiency, in this paper, the 
proposed low-pass SSL filter can be designed to have adjustable inductance and capacitance elements which 
are combined to create a transmission zero in the stopband region for a broad stopband performance. Also, the 
conventional end-coupled feed which limiting its capacitance by the gap-width (the smaller width the bigger 
capacitance) due to fabrication limit was replaced by an overlapped-coupling of patches, which used both 
sides of the SSL substrate to obtain a larger coupling capacitance. It is noted here, the insertion losses (ILs), in 
this part, were essentially attributed to the capacitively coupling effect rather than the ones of dielectric and 
conduction losses. Hence, the insertion losses could be reduced by using a larger capacitive element which 
was formed by the overlapped-coupling structure.  
In the arrangements of this paper, three SSL LPFs and two HPFs based on lumped elements syntheses were 
realized and demonstrated in the following sections. The prototype LPF was demonstrated first, and the one 
that reduces circuit size was then introduced. To enhance the signal selectivity, another LPF (the third one) 
was proposed to have a transmission zero by the passband edge for increasing the drop-off of the edge slope. 
Based on the LPF's lumped-element circuit model, the prototype SSL HPF was obtained from the low-pass 
circuit transformation to the high-pass one. The HPF with a sharper signal rejection in the low-end edge zone 
was designed by modifying the prototype HPF. The equivalent circuit models of the proposed LPFs and HPFs 
were derived to analyze the filters' performance. The values of lumped elements in the circuit models could be 
either obtained by the quasi-lumped approach [17] or derived from simulated S-parameter data extracting. The 
full-wave simulation (HFSS) [18] was further used to validate the circuit models during the design. In Sec. V, 
the UWB BPF composed of the LPF and the HPF is presented and the conclusions are given in Sec. VI.  
II. QUASI-LUMPED SSL ELEMENTS   
Lumped-element filters require both inductor and capacitor in series or parallel combinations to form either 
series or parallel resonators, respectively. In Figs. 1 and 2, we show various types of lumped elements, which 
are formed by the patches on both sides of the SSL substrate. A series inductance can easily be implemented 
by a section of narrow strip between two wide-width ones as shown in Fig. 1(a). Series capacitances can be 
realized in different ways. Shown in Fig. 1(b) is the end coupling on one side of the substrate. In viewing Fig. 
1(c), the coupling is provided from the overlapping of a top and a bottom strip. Fig. 1(d) shows the 
interdigitally coupling structure. To increase the capacitance of the end coupling, an additional patch can be 
laid on the opposite side to overlap the ones in Fig. 1(b).  
In Fig. 2(a), a section of wide transmission line already provides capacitance vs. the bilateral grounds (the 
mount); this can be increased by adding a ground metal below the strip. A thin metal strip that connects to the 
mount forms a shunt inductance. Its inductance value can be increased and controlled by the inset dimensions 
in the main strip shown in Fig. 2(b). In a similar way, the thin double-bended metal strip that connects to the 
mount forms a shunt inductance as shown in Fig. 2(c). As long as these structures are small compared to 
wavelength, their effects can be approximated by the equivalent lumped elements. To observe a filter’s 
precision response at higher frequencies, the electromagnetic coupling between the elements needs to be 
considered. 
In Fig. 3, the structure of a general SSL consists of a thin substrate, which is suspended on the small 
grooves in the center of a metal channel. The specification of the metal channel used here follows [10]. The 
channel as used throughout this study is 5 mm wide, and 2-mm air zones are provided above and below the 
substrate RT/Duroid 5880 of 0.254-mm thickness with dielectric constant 2.2. The clamping dimension of the 
 4
the top- and bottom-side I-beams’ edges. These I-beams are brought close to each other for saving the circuit 
area. Three narrow strips are placed horizontally between the I-beam patches in the center to preserve the 
effects of the original series inductances. Not shown in figure, the simulated frequency responses (from the 
circuit model and HFSS) are almost identical to the ones in Fig. 7. The longitudinal dimension is reduced 
from 6.42 mm to 5 mm, a 22% size reduction is achieved. Note here in Fig. 7, the filter has no transmission 
zero by the band edge. And hence, the filter’s band-edge slope might not be steep enough.  
C. The Sharp-Rejection Design 
In this section, we propose the sharp-rejection LPF design. The sharp rejection of the LPF is achieved by 
implanting a transmission zero into the circuit response by its passband edge. The proposed filter is modified 
from the series L-leading SSL LPF in [14]. In Fig. 9(a), we develop the lumped-element circuit model, which 
has an elliptical function response [17] with the element values of L1 = L7 = 0.481 nH, L3 = L5 = 1.162 nH, L8 
= L10 = 0.273 nH, L9 = 0.21 nH, C2 = C6 = 0.343 pF, and C4 = 0.441 pF. The series inductances stand for the 
effects of the horizontal narrow strips. The capacitances and inductances in each shunt block represent, 
respectively, the coupling effects of the overlapping strips and the shorting effects of the bottom-side strips. A 
transmission zero occurs while the shunt block is resonant. By carefully tuning these lengths, the top and 
bottom-side layouts of the LPF, which occupy an area of 6.4 ×5 mm2, are given in Fig. 9(b). In Fig. 10, the 
data calculated upon the circuit model and those obtained from simulation agree well with each other for this 
filter design. It is worth mentioning that compared with the one in Fig. 6, this filter exhibits a transmission 
zero calculated from circuit model (simulation) at 16.54 (16.48) GHz to increase the drop-off of the 
band-edge slope. 
IV. QUASI-LUMPED ELEMENTS APPROACH OF THE HPFS 
A. The Prototype HPF 
In the prototype SSL HPF design, the series capacitances and the shunt inductances are alternately 
deployed in the circuit model. They are implemented by strong broadside-couplings of the wide strips for the 
capacitances and the narrow strips stretching out the patches to the bilateral grounds for the inductances. The 
narrow strips are bended to pack into the gaps, which separate the signal strips and the ground. The couplings 
between the narrow strips and the proximity metal are rather small and their effects are neglected in the circuit 
model shown in Fig. 11. For the selected configuration, the wide transmission line and the narrow strip also 
have the widths of 3.8 mm and 0.2 mm, respectively. Again, the values of the capacitance C and the 
inductance L can be extracted from the computed S-parameters. The plots of SSL elements’ dimensions vs. 
lumped-element values are omitted here for conciseness. For applying the filter to a UWB system, the SSL 
HPF should exhibit a cutoff frequency below 3.1 GHz. Based on the seventh-order Chebyshev response, the 
lumped elements of the SSL HPF in which transformed from those of the Chebyshev LPF, are derived as 
,1
0Zg
C
HPk
k ω=                              (3) 
HPk
k g
ZL ω
0= ,                              (4) 
where ωHP = 2πfc. 
In Fig. 11, the lumped elements (under 0.01-dB equal ripple) are C1 = C7 = 1.0204 pF, C3 = C5 = 0.4858 pF, 
L2 = L6 = 1.7431 nH, and L4 = 1.5969 nH, all are initially evaluated from eqns. (3) and (4) and tuned for a 
 6
VI. Conclusions 
Design, realization, and experimental results of the SSL Lumped-element LPFs, HPFs, and UWB BPF are 
presented in this paper. The lumped-elements approach is successfully applied to design and analyze these 
circuits’ performance. The derived circuit models are very intuitive and straight forward, which are easily 
understood even by ordinary circuit design engineers. The demonstrated circuits have achieved benefits of 
very low insertion losses, compact size, and wide stopband BW. The transmission zero is created in some of 
the filter designs to increase the band-edge slopes or improve the stopband signal rejection. The sample UWB 
BPF composed of the lumped-element-designed LPF and HPF is demonstrated. Observed insertion losses are 
very low, which count for the ones from conductors and dielectric, the excessive lengths of transmission line, 
and the transition from the coaxial SMA to SSL’s waveguide channel.  Most attractive of all, the designed 
SSL UWB BPF has achieved very wide stopband BWs (14.7 GHz) under the out-of-band rejection levels over 
20 dB.  
References: 
[1] J. D. Rhodes, “Suspended substrates provide alternatives to coax,” Microwave Syst. News, vol. 9, pp. 
134-143, Aug. 1979. 
[2]   J. D. Rhodes and J. E. Dean, “MIC broadband filters and contiguous multiplexers,” in 9th European 
Microwave Conf. Dig., pp. 407-411, 1979.  
[3]   C. I. Mobb and J. D. Rhodes, “A generalized Chebyshev suspended substrate stripline bandpass filter,” 
IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., vol. MTT-35, no. 5, pp. 397-402, May 1983.  
[4]  J. P. Rooney and L. M. Underkofler, “Printed circuit integration of microwave filters,” Microwave J., vol. 
21, pp. 68-73, Sept. 1978. 
[5]  J. D. Rhodes, “Suspended substrate filters and multiplexers,” in 16th European Microwave Conf. Dig., 
pp. 8-18, Oct. 1986. 
[6]  C. Nguyen and K. Chang, “Design and performance of millimeter-wave end-coupled bandpass filters,” 
Int. J. Infrared & Millim. Waves, vol. 6, no. 7, pp. 497-509, 1985. 
[7]  R. M. Dougherty, “MM-wave filter design with suspended stripline,” Microwave J., vol. 29, pp. 75-84, 
1986. 
[8]  R. Levy and S. B. Cohn, “A history of microwave filter research, design, and development,” IEEE Trans. 
Microwave Theory Tech., vol. MTT-32, no. 9, pp. 1055-1067, Sept. 1984. 
[9]  W. Menzel, “Broadband filter circuits using an extended suspended substrate transmission line 
configuration,” in 22nd European Microwave Conf. Dig., pp. 459-463, Helsinki, Finland, 1992. 
[10] W. Schwab, F. B. Bögelsack, and W. Menzel, “Multilayer suspended stripline and coplanar line filters,” 
IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., vol. 46, no. 7, pp. 1403-1407, Jul. 1994. 
[11] W. Menzel and F. B. Bögelsack, “Folded stubs for compact suspended stripline circuits,” in IEEE MTT-S 
Int. Microwave Symp. Dig., pp. 593-596, Jun. 1993. 
[12] W. Menzel, “A novel miniature suspended stripline filter,” in European Microwave Conf. Dig., Munich, 
pp. 1047-1050, Oct. 2003. 
[13] W. Menzel and A. Balalem, “Quasi-lumped suspended stripline filters and diplexers,” IEEE Trans. 
Microwave Theory Tech., vol. 53, no. 10, pp. 3230-3237, Oct. 2005. 
[14] W. Menzel, M. S. Rahman Tito, and L. Zhu, “ Low-loss ultra-wideband (UWB) filters using suspended 
 8
List of Figures (with captions):  
 
Fig. 1  Series SSL structures, (a) inductance, (b) end-coupled capacitance, (c) overlapping 
SSL capacitance, and (d) interdigital capacitance. 
 
 
 
Fig. 2  The shunt SSL reactances, (a) capacitance, (b) inset inductance, and (c) bended 
inductance. 
 
 
Fig. 3 The cross section of the SSL’s shielding. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10
 
Fig. 7  The circuit model and simulated frequency responses for the filter of Fig. 6. 
 
Fig. 8 The top and bottom layouts of the size-reduced LPF (unit in mm). 
 
 
Fig. 9  (a) The lumped-elements circuit model of the modified L-lead, sharp-rejection LPF 
and (b) the top and bottom layouts. 
 12
 
Fig. 13  The wide band frequency responses from simulation, measurement, and circuit 
model for the prototype SSL HPF. 
 
 
 
Fig. 14  The top and bottom layouts of the rejection-enhanced SSL HPF (unit in mm). 
 
 
 
Fig. 15  The equivalent circuit model of Fig. 14 with the elements values, C1 = C7 = 1.5 pF, 
C3 = C5 = 0.5 pF, C8 = C10 = 0.32 pF, C9 = 0.08 pF, L2 = L6 = 1.6 nH, and L4 = 0.9 nH. 
 
 
 14
 
Fig. 19  The measured group delays vs. frequency for the SSL UWB BPF. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 20  The photos of the experiment circuit for filter of Fig. 17.  
 16
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
   原計畫所設定之電路研製共 5、6 項，接能在期限內完成設計與製作。相關
的成果也已發表論文，後續之研究正陸續進行當中。 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
本專題之成果有兩三項新穎之濾波電路正在評估申請專利，相關之資料正在
準備當中。 
 
 
附件二 
 18
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期： 99 年 10 月 5 日 
一、參加會議經過 
    詳如續頁 
二、與會心得 
詳如續頁 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
略 
四、建議 
    無 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
計畫編號 NSC97-2221-E-018-004-MY2 
計畫名稱 懸浮帶線結構之濾波電路與耦合電路研製暨電路之準集總元件
電路模型推導與分析 
出國人員
姓名 
許維宏、林韋辰、
廖顯傑 
服務機構
及職稱 國立彰化師範大學  碩士研究生 
會議時間 
97 年 12 月 16 日至
97 年 12 月 20 日 
98 年 12 月 7 日至
98 年 12 月 10 日 
會議地點 
97 APMC 香港、澳門 
98 APMC 新加坡 
會議名稱 (中文) 亞太微波會議 2008、2009 
(英文) APMC2008、APMC2009 
發表論文
題目 
1. Wei-Hong Hsu and Min-Hua Ho, “Bandstop Filter Design Using the Suspended 
Stripline Structure,” in Proc. APMC’08, Sec. A2-06, Hong Kong, Dec. 2008. 
2. Xian-Jie Liao, Wei-Hong Hsu, and Min-Hua Ho, “Design of the UWB Band-Pass 
Filter with a Notch Response Using the Suspended Stripline,” in Proc. APMC’09, 
Sec. WE2C, Singapore, Dec. 2009. 
3. Wei-Chen Lin and Min-Hua Ho, “Design of the Band-Pass Filter with Wide 
Stopband Performance Using λ/4 Forked SIRs,” in Proc. APMC’09, Sec. WE1P, 
Singapore, Dec. 2009. 
附件四 
 20
2008年出席國際會議心得報告 
出席者：許維宏 
服務機關名稱及職稱：彰化師範大學電子系教授、電信所碩士研究助理 
會議期間：97年12月16日～12月20日 
會議地點：中國香港、澳門 
會議名稱：2008 Asia-Pacific Microwave Conference (APMC 2008) 
發表論文題目：Bandstop Filter Design Using the Suspended Stripline Structure 
與會心得： 
Asia-Pacific Microwave Conference (APMC 2008) 會議是目前亞太地區的國
際會議，參加者來自世界各國，為期5天（12/16～12/20），是國際上重要的各
項電磁領域研討會。 
會議舉行在香港。此次會議總共規劃有52個次領域的論文發表，發表稿件超
過800篇文章，每場次開場都請到各方面著名的專家來演講，其演講的內容都是
相當新穎的研究成果，之後就為論文的口頭報告及海報發表的時間，且這次也有
APMC Prize Competitions的海報競賽。這次參加國際會議可說是獲益良多，不
但更了解將來研究與產業的趨勢，也看到了微波領域(包含被動電路、主動電路
以及天線)等等各方面的研究成果，也充實了部份的知識。這次我們參與的section
有Passive Devices and components A2、B1、C1以及B3、B4等場次與Antenna Design 
and Arrays G1、E3、G3以及G4等場次的論文發表，並聆聽包含Prof. Zhining Chen, 
IEEE AP-S Distinguished Lecturer, Principal Scientist, Institute for Infocomm 
Research, Singapore (Miniaturization of Ultra-Wideband Antennas), Prof. Franz 
Schlagenhaufer, IEEE EMC-S Distinguished Lecturer, Senior Research Fellow, The 
University of Western Australia Western Australian Telecommunications Research 
Institute(WAITRI) Perth, Western (EMC Design Principles), Prof. Y. P. Zhang, 
Nanyang Technological University, Singapore (Design and Integration of 60-GHz 
Grid Array Antenna in Chip Package)。 
對於這次能夠有機會參加如此盛會，個人感到相當榮幸。除此之外，就對於
我們的實驗室而言，藉由參與許多精采的論文發表場次外，與全世界各地相同研
究領域的精英相處，並就研究主題進行研討的經歷收穫匪淺，並且更加堅定目前
研究的主題，而且瞭解到目前研究主題之未來研究方向與趨勢。因此，希望能夠
 22
2009年出席國際會議心得報告 
出席者：林韋辰、廖顯傑 
服務機關名稱及職稱：彰化師範大學電子系教授、電信所碩士研究助理 
會議期間：98年12月7日～12月10日 
會議地點：新加坡 
會議名稱：2009 Asia-Pacific Microwave Conference (APMC 2009) 
發表論文題目： 
1. Design of the Band-Pass Filter with Wide Stopband Performance Using λ/4 
Forked SIRs 
2. Design of the UWB Band-Pass Filter with a Notch Response Using the 
Suspended Stripline 
與會心得： 
Asia-Pacific Microwave Conference (APMC 2009) 研討會是目前亞太地區的
國際性微波會議，參加者來自世界各地同時在微波領域上皆有精采的論著，其會
議期為期5天（2009 12/7～12/10），是一場國際上相當重要的微波領域之研討會。 
今年之會議舉辦在新加坡。此次會議林韋辰的部份主要是 poster 
presentation，利用海報來對此次參加會議的研究學者作一個圖解式的報告，在此
次會議中，各位微波領域的專家紛紛對於我的海報提出不同的提問，而林韋辰則
一一回答問題，而主要都是使用英文提問與回答，這對於林韋承來說也是一個非
常重要的經驗，雖然有些吃力，但是林韋辰仍然非常熱衷，在張貼海報與回答問
題結束後，林韋辰也參加這次會議的一些其他我感興趣的議程，參加者的程度都
非常好，發表成果都相當的豐富。 
廖顯傑的部分主要是oral presentation，由張志揚教授擔任session chair，上台
報告第二個論文20分鐘，其間有兩三位與會者提出問題，都能當場給予回覆，張
志揚教授也在當場幫忙解釋提問者的問題，對於廖顯傑在回答問題的精準度上有
很大的幫助 
而對於這次能夠有機會參加如此盛會，兩位研究生都感到相當榮幸。除此之
外，就對於我們的實驗室而言，藉由參與許多精采的論文發表場次外，與全世界
各地相同研究領域的精英相處，並就研究主題進行研討的經歷收穫匪淺，並且更
加堅定目前研究的主題，而且瞭解到目前研究主題之未來研究方向與趨勢。因
 1
2008年出席國際會議心得報告 
出席者：許維宏 
服務機關名稱及職稱：彰化師範大學電子系教授、電信所碩士研究助理 
會議期間：97年12月16日～12月20日 
會議地點：中國香港、澳門 
會議名稱：2008 Asia-Pacific Microwave Conference (APMC 2008) 
發表論文題目：Bandstop Filter Design Using the Suspended Stripline Structure 
與會心得： 
Asia-Pacific Microwave Conference (APMC 2008) 會議是目前亞太地區的國
際會議，參加者來自世界各國，為期5天（12/16～12/20），是國際上重要的各
項電磁領域研討會。 
會議舉行在香港。此次會議總共規劃有52個次領域的論文發表，發表稿件超
過800篇文章，每場次開場都請到各方面著名的專家來演講，其演講的內容都是
相當新穎的研究成果，之後就為論文的口頭報告及海報發表的時間，且這次也有
APMC Prize Competitions的海報競賽。這次參加國際會議可說是獲益良多，不
但更了解將來研究與產業的趨勢，也看到了微波領域(包含被動電路、主動電路
以及天線)等等各方面的研究成果，也充實了部份的知識。這次我們參與的section
有Passive Devices and components A2、B1、C1以及B3、B4等場次與Antenna Design 
and Arrays G1、E3、G3以及G4等場次的論文發表，並聆聽包含Prof. Zhining Chen, 
IEEE AP-S Distinguished Lecturer, Principal Scientist, Institute for Infocomm 
Research, Singapore (Miniaturization of Ultra-Wideband Antennas), Prof. Franz 
Schlagenhaufer, IEEE EMC-S Distinguished Lecturer, Senior Research Fellow, The 
University of Western Australia Western Australian Telecommunications Research 
Institute(WAITRI) Perth, Western (EMC Design Principles), Prof. Y. P. Zhang, 
Nanyang Technological University, Singapore (Design and Integration of 60-GHz 
Grid Array Antenna in Chip Package)。 
對於這次能夠有機會參加如此盛會，個人感到相當榮幸。除此之外，就對於
我們的實驗室而言，藉由參與許多精采的論文發表場次外，與全世界各地相同研
究領域的精英相處，並就研究主題進行研討的經歷收穫匪淺，並且更加堅定目前
研究的主題，而且瞭解到目前研究主題之未來研究方向與趨勢。因此，希望能夠
 3
2009年出席國際會議心得報告 
出席者：林韋辰、廖顯傑 
服務機關名稱及職稱：彰化師範大學電子系教授、電信所碩士研究助理 
會議期間：98年12月7日～12月10日 
會議地點：新加坡 
會議名稱：2009 Asia-Pacific Microwave Conference (APMC 2009) 
發表論文題目： 
1. Design of the Band-Pass Filter with Wide Stopband Performance Using λ/4 
Forked SIRs 
2. Design of the UWB Band-Pass Filter with a Notch Response Using the 
Suspended Stripline 
與會心得： 
Asia-Pacific Microwave Conference (APMC 2009) 研討會是目前亞太地區的
國際性微波會議，參加者來自世界各地同時在微波領域上皆有精采的論著，其會
議期為期5天（2009 12/7～12/10），是一場國際上相當重要的微波領域之研討會。 
今年之會議舉辦在新加坡。此次會議林韋辰的部份主要是 poster 
presentation，利用海報來對此次參加會議的研究學者作一個圖解式的報告，在此
次會議中，各位微波領域的專家紛紛對於我的海報提出不同的提問，而林韋辰則
一一回答問題，而主要都是使用英文提問與回答，這對於林韋承來說也是一個非
常重要的經驗，雖然有些吃力，但是林韋辰仍然非常熱衷，在張貼海報與回答問
題結束後，林韋辰也參加這次會議的一些其他我感興趣的議程，參加者的程度都
非常好，發表成果都相當的豐富。 
廖顯傑的部分主要是oral presentation，由張志揚教授擔任session chair，上台
報告第二個論文20分鐘，其間有兩三位與會者提出問題，都能當場給予回覆，張
志揚教授也在當場幫忙解釋提問者的問題，對於廖顯傑在回答問題的精準度上有
很大的幫助 
而對於這次能夠有機會參加如此盛會，兩位研究生都感到相當榮幸。除此之
外，就對於我們的實驗室而言，藉由參與許多精采的論文發表場次外，與全世界
各地相同研究領域的精英相處，並就研究主題進行研討的經歷收穫匪淺，並且更
加堅定目前研究的主題，而且瞭解到目前研究主題之未來研究方向與趨勢。因
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
掛觳眳傖彆衄　ʊ?陔搭眳疏?繚淏婓啐嘛扠?瞳ㄛ眈燊眳揃蹋淏婓?笢﹝ 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
ㄗ 1ㄘ胍源醱ㄩ 
掛??蕼俇傖嗣意疏け?繚ㄛ黺胍旃噶奻蕼祫屾家汜ʊ⑩膳?恅鷂⑩ IEEE 
荽?恅ㄛ諉鴦眳眈燊旃噶蛙隅?嘐眳價渙﹝掛旃噶??黺籵陓?疏薆郖ㄛ洷咡賢蚕掛??
俴夔??家賜垀ピ剒猁眳籵?符ㄛ筳珨崝樓　籵?旃噶夔講﹝ 
ㄗ 2ㄘ撮胍?陔ㄩ 
       掛??垀旃庨腔 SSL 疏?繚ㄛ挓 婓偞?鷂?繚俶夔眳啐嘛奻ㄛ諂眕挓 垀旃追眳脹虴
摩?啋璃?繚耀倰耀ㄛ虴彆謎疑ㄛ準都諉輪?蕣腔?繚ロ倛﹝??俴俇?眒家堤衄 5-6?
陔搭腔疏?繚偞?家汜ㄛ飲夔綅蚚黺偞?鷂庨釬黺?踏腔?籵?家ⅲ奻﹝ 
ㄗ 3ㄘ諒郤鷂??ㄩ 
掛??眳俴婦漪埻燴腔蚚﹜?繚眳煦昴﹜?繚庨釬﹜?棠耀腔妏蚚鷂眈燊　け?ㄛ眈
陓稛虳綎最逋眕枑鼎鑠璵旃噶 符眳﹝肮黺垀衄鷂旃噶腔旃噶肮祥?帤芘
⻌胍賜麼筳⻌家賜飲淕?模扦蛁⻌陔悛﹝奧稛虳鷂旃噶腔 珩撿衄眕狟
腔撮夔ㄩ 
ㄗ 1 ㄘ黺蚚婓芅捁麼岆?鋒腔啋璃偞???衄淏復腔賸賤﹝ブ夔?蕾煦昴偞?堤
珨??蚚腔疏?繚﹝ 
ㄗ 2 ㄘ黺?棠耀?闚夔眈?腔抇洃﹝稛衄翑黺汜婓筳⻌賜摽祥祫黺家汜綎湮腔邈
船ㄛ珩褫眕吽賜嗣癓腔??嶲﹝ㄗ 
