2Figure 1: Bellows structure of the piezo-buzzer
actuator with four series stacks
2 CONSTRUCTION AND
ACTUATION PRINCIPLES OF THE
PROPOSED PIEZOELECTRIC
BUZZER ACTUATOR
Figure 2 shows the structure of a piezoelectric
buzzer, which is a non-magnetic brass disk glued
with a piezoceramic layer. In this research, the
utilized piezoelectric buzzer has 28 mm diameter
of brass disk and 18 mm diameter of piezoceramic
layer. This buzzer is commercially available, cheap
and its thickness is only 0.2 mm. As shown in Fig.
3, the single-stack piezoelectric buzzer actuator
consists of two buzzers and some flexible joints.
Moreover, the construction of the piezoelectric
buzzer actuator with four series stacks and its
corresponding actuation principles are depicted in
Fig. 4 and Fig. 5, respectively. Obviously, the
stacks are mechanically in series and electrically in
parallel. Therefore, the input voltage applied to
each stack is a constant because of the parallel
circuit and the elongation of each stack is
superposed because of the mechanically series
connection of the stacks. The ΔL is defined as the 
total stroke of the piezoelectric buzzer actuator.
Figure 6 shows the photograph of the developed
compact actuator. As mentioned previously, a
significant feature of the piezoelectric buzzer
actuator is its larger available stroke ΔL, which 
will be proved in the following sections.
Figure 2: A piezoelectric buzzer
Figure 3: Structure of the single-stack piezoelectric
buzzer actuator
Figure 4: Construction of the piezoelectric buzzer
actuator with four series stacks
3 EXPERIMENTAL TEST DEVICES
In this study, two experimental test devices are
developed for evaluating the performances of the
piezoelectric buzzer actuator. The first one is the
static test rig as shown in Fig. 7.
4the other hand, the force/stroke curves of the
developed piezoelectric buzzer actuator can also be
measured by utilizing the same test device. Figure 10
shows the experimental results. For 350 V input
voltage, the maximal output force and the maximal
output stroke of the piezoelectric buzzer actuator with
five series stacks are 9.3 N and 1.46 mm, respectively.
It is obvious that the output force is reversely
proportional to the output stroke, which is very
similar to the characteristics of a switching solenoid
/B1/. Moreover, one minor fault of the piezoelectric
buzzer actuator is noticeable that the maximal output
force of the developed actuator is smaller than that of
the switching solenoid. On the contrary, however, the
maximal output stroke of the developed actuator is
comparable with that of the switching solenoid.
Figure 9: Stroke/voltage curve for the developed
actuator with four series stacks
Figure 10: Force/stroke curves of the developed
actuator with different number of series stacks
(Input voltage : 350 V)
Another comparison between the piezoelectric buzzer
actuator and the switching solenoid is the dynamic
response speed, which can be evaluated by the
dynamic test device shown in Fig. 8. Figure 11 and
Fig. 12 show the frequency responses of the
piezoelectric buzzer actuators with single stack and
five series stacks, respectively. The external mass and
spring are both disconnected. For the single-stack
actuator, the -3dB bandwidth is approximately 500
Hz. In addition, the -3dB bandwidth is reduced to 50
Hz for five series stacks. Thus, it can be concluded
that the more series stacks we design, the more
reduction of the bandwidth is expected. However, the
response speed of the developed piezoelectric buzzer
actuator is obviously faster than that of the
conventional switching solenoid.
Figure 11: Frequency response of the developed
actuator with single stack
Figure 12: Frequency response of the developed
actuator with five series stacks
5 CONCLUSION
In this research, a new piezoelectric buzzer actuator
is successfully developed. The maximal stroke for the
actuator with five series piezoelectric buzzer stacks
與會心得報告
一、會議名稱與簡介：
第十屆 SCIFP 斯堪地那維亞國際流體傳動技術研討會（The 10th Scandinavian
Int. Conference on Fluid Power, Tampere, Finland 2007） 於 2007 年 5 月 21~23 日
由歐洲 FPCE (Network of Fluid Power Centres in Europe) 協會所主辦，芬蘭
Tampere 工業大學 (Tampere University of Technology) 承辦，本研討會的舉辦是
以二年為一周期，分別於芬蘭 Tampere 及瑞典 Linkoeping 工業大學輪流舉辦，堪
稱是國際流體傳動領域中頗具份量的大型研討會；另在研討會進行之同時，
Tampere 工業大學液壓與自動化研究所 (Institute of Hydraulics and Automation)
也同步在現場展示其最新研發成果。本人在這次研討會中以口頭報告方式在
Session C6 中發表一論文篇，備感榮耀。隨著流體傳動技術的不斷發展以及進一
步應用的普及，各種諸如新型流體傳動元件與新的應用領域不斷地被開發出來，
影響所及是更進一步加速了這一個領域的蓬勃發展。因而，藉由本次研討會，計
有來自世界 20 餘國近 270 位研究者齊聚一堂交換彼此之研究心得與成果。另外
值得一提的是，本人為這次研討會中唯一來自台灣的學者，頗具代表性；其他來
自亞洲的學者計有日本 5 位、中國 4 位（皆為 Ph.D.學生）等。
二、會議過程：
研討會開會地點座落在芬蘭坦佩雷市（Tampere, Finland）的國際會議廳（Tampere
Hall），以下將就會議進行中的每日議程作一簡要介紹。
1. 報到：研討會的報到地點設於 5/21~23 日全天於大會舉辦地點 Tampere Hall
之會議廳入口。
2. 第一天議程（5/21）：首日開幕典禮後安排了四場 Keynote Lectures，演講者分
別來自芬蘭及德國，午餐後下午進行分組論文發表。總計第一天計
有 19 篇論文口頭發表，大部分論文在同一時段分為三個 session 同
時進行，每一場發表的時間為 20 分鐘（其中包含 5 分鐘討論）。在
這第一天的會議中，Power Transmission，Digital Hydraulics，Water
Hydraulics，Aircraft Hydraulics 與 Pumps 是四大主題。尤以第三主題
（Water Hydraulics）是未來流體傳動領域發展的明日之星。
3. 第二天議程（5/22）：第二天的會議議程則是重頭戲，由於論文發表數最多，
故今日實際參與大會的人數也最多。大會並安排了二場 Keynote
Speeches 分別針對液壓效率提升與電液驅動技術新發展為題。另
在論文發表上，則計有 34 篇論文並分為三個 session 同時口頭發
表。其中 Mobile Hydraulics & Pneumatics 與 Water Hydraulics 是二
大主題領域論文發表。後者（水壓系統）由於具有環保概念，預估
在未來將有進一步發展的空間；至於前者（行走機械液氣壓系統）
The Tenth Scandinavian International Conference on Fluid Power, SICFP’07, May 21-23, 2007, Tampere, Finland
Vehicle Active Suspension System Control Using Neural Network
Professor Jyh-Chyang Renn and Graduate Student Tsung-Han Wu
Department of Mechanical Engineering,
National Yunlin University of Science and Technology,
640 Douliu, Yunlin, Taiwan
E-mail: rennjc@yuntech.edu.tw
ABSTRACT
Nowadays, the active suspension is the key technology for vehicles to achieve both
ride comfort and control performance. In this paper, a new 1/4T servo-hydraulic
vehicle active suspension system is developed and two control schemes are utilized.
The first one is a conventional PID controller obtained from Ziegler-Nichols method
and the second one is the neural network controller. Neural network, which is a
network system interlinked by Neuros, possesses the ability of on-line learning and
identification. The neural network controller proposed in this paper is able to adjust
the weight via error back propagation algorithm and minimize the error between the
actual output and the desired output of the suspension system. In addition, the
utilization of MATLAB/Simulink software enables the dynamic simulation of the
control system. From both simulation and experimental results, it is shown that two
proposed control schemes can restrain significantly the vibration and acceleration of
vehicle body. However, the performance of neural network controller is somewhat
better than that obtained from the PID controller.
KEYWORDS: Servo-hydraulics, Active Suspension, Neural Network Controller, PID
Controller.
In this paper, the design concepts as well as the modeling, simulation and
experimental studies of a newly developed 1/4T servo-hydraulic active suspension
test rig will be discussed. In addition, two controller schemes will be utilized. The
first one is the conventional PID controller and the second one is the neural network
controller. In the following, the structure of the vehicle active suspension system will
firstly be outlined.
Figure 1. Classification of vehicle suspension system
2 Active Suspension System
The introduction of active suspension system is expected to improve efficiently the
control performance and the ride comfort for passengers in a vehicle. Generally
speaking, a high-quality active suspension system can separate the vehicle chassis
from the vibration arising from road surface. It further ensures the contact between the
wheels and road surface for a better ride comfort and safety. A 1/4T vehicle model
using a so-called sky-hook damper is shown in Fig. 2. The sky-hook damper refers to
a damper attached between the top and ceiling of vehicle. This damper is found to
have excellent suppression effect against the vibration of vehicle body [1]. The bsky
denotes the damping coefficient of the sky-hook damper.
The dynamic equations for the active suspension system are
    asussusss Fzzbzzkzm   , (1)
      aurtsussusuu Fzzkzzbzzkzm   . (2)
Where ms : sprung mass (303 kg),
mu : unsprung mass (65 kg),
ks : spring constant (16812 N/m),
kt : spring constant of tyre (190000 N/m),
bs : damper coefficient (10000 Ns/m) ,
Zs : displacement of vehicle chassis relative to plain ground,
Zu : displacement of wheel relative to plain ground,
Zr : uneven road surface relative to plain ground,
Fa : output force provided by the servo-hydraulic cylinder.
As shown in Fig. 4, the servo-hydraulic actuator consists of a servo valve (or
proportional valve) and a hydraulic cylinder. The output actuating force Fa is
calculated by
La APF  . (3)
Figure 4. The servo-hydraulic actuator
)(
1
66 ukxx a
 ,
5Axy . (7)
Where 
  14 ,, wCC dtVt
e  .
3 PID and Neural Network Control Theory
In this study, the first utilized control scheme is the PID controller, in which the
optimal gains are determined by the criterion proposed by Ziegler and Nichols [12].
The discrete-time PID-controller can be formulated as
   kukuku  1 , (8)
     keKkekeKku IP  1      212  kekekeKD , (9)
where ku ：actuating signal,
ku ：actuating signal change,
ke ：error signal,
PK ：gain of the proportional controller,
IK ：gain of the integral controller,
DK ：gain of the derivative controller.
The second control scheme proposed in this paper is the neural network controller. On
the one hand, the neural network possesses the structure of Multilayer Perception
(MLP) and utilizes the algorithm of Error Back Propagation (EBP). The combination
of MLP and EBP is called the BP Neural Network or simply BPN, which is the most
frequently used neural network controller for engineering applications. On the other
hand, the main framework of the BPN consists of the multilayer feedforward structure
as well as the supervised learning architecture. It features a higher level of nonlinear
mapping and rapid learning. Therefore, the BPN can be used to replace the
conventional nonlinear equations and the corresponding complex calculations [13].
Figure 5 shows the schematic BPN controller proposed in this paper. It is observable
Figure 5. BP Neural Network controller
Figure 6. Simplified block diagram of the active suspension system using neural
network controller
   22
1
kk OtE . (12)
Where tk : desired output value of Neuro k in output layer,
Ok : actual network output value of Neuro k in output layer.
The output value, Ok, in output layer can be obtained through
)exp(1
1
)(
k
kkk net
netfO

 , (13)
   kjkjk OWnet  . (14)
Where Wkj : weight from Neuro j in hidden layer to Neuro k in output layer,
Oj : output value of Neuro j in hidden layer,
θk : bias or threshold at Neuro k.
To minimize the error function, E, the following equation is utilized.
W
E
W

  . (15)
Where ΔW is the weight change and ηdenotes the learning rate, which is the
proportional gain between the weight change and the partial differential error function.
Thus, the weight can be adjusted or updated by
W(k)=W(k-1)+ΔW. (16)
This iteration process stops if the error function, E, converges within a preset bound.
bar. Finally, the control of this test rig as well as the acquisition and processing of
measured data are all integrated in a PC-based control unit with a multi-functional
peripheral interface card.
Figure 9. 1/4T test rig for active suspension system
On the other hand, Fig. 13 and Fig.14 show the corresponding simulation and
measured acceleration signals. In addition to two main acceleration signals of vehicle
body obtained from PID and neural network controller respectively, the acceleration
of the road profile generated by the servo-hydraulic road simulator is also shown in
the figures for references. Although the measured acceleration signals are oscillatory,
the acceleration of the vehicle body using neural network controller is smaller. In
other words, the ride comfort is improved. Table 1 shows the quantitative
comparisons between the performances using PID and neural network controller.
From either the maximal absolute value of body acceleration or displacement, it can
be concluded that the proposed neural network controller is somewhat better than the
conventional PID controller.
Figure 11. Simulation results showing the displacement of vehicle body subjected to 4
cm convex and concave bumps
Figure 14. Experimental results showing the acceleration of vehicle body subjected to
4 cm convex and concave bumps
Table 1. Quantitative comparisons between PID and neural network controller
6 Conclusion
In this paper, a test rig of servo-hydraulic active suspension system for vehicles is
successfully developed. From simulation and experimental results, it is proved that
both two control schemes can restrain the vibration and acceleration of vehicle body
significantly. However, four remarks may be given as follows.
[4] M.V.C Rao and V. Prahlad, 1997, “A Tunable Fuzzy Logic Controller for
Vehicle-active Suspension System,”Fuzzy Sets and Systems, Vol. 85, pp. 11-21.
[5] A. G. Thompson, 1984, “Optimal and Suboptimal Linear Active Suspensions for 
Road Vehicles,” Veh. Syst. Dynamics, Vol. 13, pp. 61-72.
[6] S. B. Kiriczi and R. Kashani, 1992, “Robust stability analysis of LQG-controlled
active suspension with model uncertainty using structure singular value, μ, 
method,” Veh. Syst. Dynamics, Vol. 21, pp. 361-384.
[7] J. S. Lin and I. Kanellakopoulos, 1997, “Nonlinear Design of Active 
Suspensions,” IEEE Control System, June, pp. 45-59.
[8] C. Kim and P. I. Ro, 1998, “A Sliding Mode Controler for Vehicle Active 
Suspension Systems with Nonlinearities,” Proc. Instn. Mech. Engrs., Vol. 212 Part 
D, pp. 79-92.
[9] Y. J. Jang and S. W. Kim, 2002, “Gain-Scheduled Control for an Active
Suspension System with an Asymmetric Hydraulic Actuator,” IEICE Trans. 
Fundamentals, Vol. E85-A, No. 4, pp. 903-908.
[10] S. J. Wu, C. T. Wu and T. T. Lee,“Neural-Network-Based optimal Fuzzy Control
Design for Half-Car Active Suspension Systems,” Proceedings, Intelligent Vehicle
Symposium, Las Vegas, June (2005).
[11] H. E. Merritt, 1967, Hydraulic control system, John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
[12] J. G. Ziegler and N. B. Nichols, 1942, “Optimum Settings for Automatic
Controllers,” Trans. of ASME 64, pp. 759-768.
[13] T. Fukuda and T. Shibata, 1992,“Theory and Application of Neural Networks for
Industrial Control System,” IEEE Transaction on Industrial Electronics,
pp.472-489.
則是台灣流體傳動產業尚未觸及的應用領域，未來頗值得進行相關
研究。大會並於當晚安排了大會晚宴（conference banquet）。
4. 第三天議程（5/23）：本日大會安排了一場 Keynote Speech，主題為 Sustainable
Power Solutions。另本人論文發表的時間是安排在第三天的會議議
程 C6-1，時間為 AM10:15~10:35。本日計有 32 篇論文口頭發表，
共分為三個 Sessions 及九項主題。
三、與會心得：
流體傳動（一般又稱之為：液氣壓控制）相關研究領域在國內並非顯學，但這項
技術卻廣泛地應用在各式工作母機，射出成型機以及行走機械上，而這些產品每
年也為國家創造不少外匯收入。相對的，在國外先進國家中，包含芬蘭、瑞典、
德國、日本、美國、英國、意大利等甚至是對岸的中國大陸，均有相當強的研究
團隊持續從事著流體傳動技術的研發，他們可能是大學中一個獨立的研究所或是
在大學中成立的一個技術研發中心。反觀國內，從事流體動傳技術研發的學者專
家本來就不多，而且又分散在各個大學或研究機構，故整合起來的力量是不夠強
的。以流體傳動相關的國際研討會來看，上述先進國家幾乎每二至四年均會舉辦
一次，就連中國大陸在這方面的發展也不容忽視，他們每二年均會在杭州、武漢
或哈爾濱等地舉辦流體動力國際研討會。因此，對本人而言，參與這次會議之後
所獲得的最大心得是：未來在國內必須推動並加強跨校之整合研究，以凝聚分散
在各方的研究潛力。
四、攜回資料：
此次會議本人計攜回以下三份資料：
1. 大會論文發表日程紙本折頁一份。
2. 大會論文集三冊及光碟一份，收錄了 91 篇論文，5 篇 Keynote Speech，2 篇
Lectures。
3. 大會參與者之名錄及聯絡方式一份。
五、發表論文：
1 Introduction
As shown in Fig. 1, the suspension system is classified as a passive, semi-active, and
active suspension system, according to its ability to add or extract energy. Among
these three systems, the passive suspension is perhaps the most commonly used one
and may be found in most vehicles. However, the passive suspension has no means of
adding external energy to a system because it contains only passive elements such as a
damper and a spring. For the semi-active suspension, though it is possible to
continuously vary the rate of energy dissipation using a controllable damper, it
provides only moderate performance. By contrast, the active suspension can supply
energy from an external source and generate force to achieve the optimal desired
performance. For these reasons, the active suspension is investigated in this study.
Surveying some previous reports, it is found that the active suspension control have
been attracting undoubtedly the attention of many engineers and researchers. Typical
studies are summarized as follows: Sunwoo et al. [1] used the sky-hook damping
model reference adaptive control to improve the ride performance for a quarter car
model. Kuo & Li [2] applied the PI and PD fuzzy controllers to the active suspension
system, and the optimum parameters of fuzzy controller were obtained by
genetic-algorithm (GA).
Chantranuwathana & Peng [3] strived to improve the performance of the active
suspension system by compensating a dynamic system of hydraulic actuator using a
robust controller. Rao & Prahlad [4] proposed a tunable fuzzy logic controller for a
quarter-car active suspension model to reduce the vertical acceleration for better ride
comfort. Thompson [5] as well as Kashani and Kiriczi [6] applied the optimal control
theory to the design of an active vehicle suspension system, but they needed accurate
system parameters and road variation information. Lin and Kanellakopoulos [7]
employed nonlinear back-stepping design for the control of active suspension systems,
which improved the inherent trade-off between ride quality and suspension level. Kim
and Ro [8] used sliding mode control scheme to ensure robustness for a wide range of
operating conditions for vehicle active suspension system. Jang and Kim [9] utilized
the gain-scheduled control for an active suspension system to improve the ride
comfort. Wu and Lee [10] used a neural-network-based fuzzy controller for half-car
active suspension systems. However, most of them were based only on computer
simulations. In other words, very few experimental results were discussed in these
reports.
Figure 2. Sky-Hook Suspension System
Since it is difficult to practically implement the sky-hook suspension system, this
study adopts a feedback control structure instead of the sky-hook suspension and
designs a servo-hydraulic active suspension system as shown in Fig. 3. The basic
principle is described as follows: a hydraulic actuator is mounted between the vehicle
and wheels, such that the controllable output force of the hydraulic cylinder is used to
replace the virtual damping force provided by the sky-hook damper. This helps to
realize the same damping effect of sky-hook damper. The parameter Fa denotes the
output force provided by the hydraulic cylinder.
Figure 3. Active suspension system of sky-hook reference model
From the continuity equation [11], Eq. (4) can be derived.
 usLtLL
e
t zzAPCQP
V
 
4
. (4)
From the Bernoulli’s equation [11], assuming that the rod diameter is negligible, we
have
)(
1
LSvdL PPwxCQ  
. (5)
Where A : effective cross-sectional area of hydraulic cylinder (903 mm2),
PL : load pressure,
Vt : effective volume of hydraulic cylinder,
βe : bulk modulus of oil,
Ct : leakage coefficient of hydraulic cylinder,
QL : load flow,
Cd : discharge coefficient,
w: area gradient of servo valve,
xv : spool displacement of servo valve,
ρ: oil density,
Ps: supply pressure (110 bar).
In addition, the spool displacement of servo valve, xv, is controlled by an input current,
u. The corresponding dynamic relation can be simplified as a first-order differential
equation.
)(
1
ukxx avv 
 . (6)
From Eqs. (1) to (6), if the state variables are selected as: us zzx 1 , szx 2 ,
ru zzx 3 , uzx 4 , LPx 5 and vxx 6 , the state equations for the active
suspension system may be written as
21 xx  ,
    ][1 542312 Axxxbxxkmx sss
 ,
43 xx  ,
      ][1 5342314 AxxZkxxbxxkmx rtssu
 ,
  5664255 )sgn( xxPxxxAxx S   ,
that the controller consists of three layers. They are input, hidden and output layer
respectively. This structure is called the multilayer feedforward network, which can be
used to solve complex nonlinear model. The input and output layer represents the
input and output value respectively. The number of Neuros in input or output layer is
determined simply according to the number of utilized input or output variables in the
model. In addition, the necessary number of Neuros in hidden layer depends chiefly
on the complexity of the control system. Generally speaking, more Neuros result in
better learning ability. By contrast, the learning efficiency decreases because more
time is required for computation. Therefore, trial-and-error method is generally used
to determine the optimal number of Neuros in hidden layer. Besides, the number of
hidden layer can be increased from one layer to several layers depending also upon
the complexity of the system. In this paper, however, only one hidden layer with three
Neuros is employed. In addition, both the input and output layer consists of a single
Neuro respectively. The Neuros in various layers are interlinked by different weight.
The input pattern is directly transferred to the hidden layer through the input layer.
After some calculations including weighting, summation and activation, a set of
output values in hidden layer is obtained. Similarly, the actual output values in output
layer can also be derived. Figure 6 shows the simplified control block diagram of the
active suspension system using neural network controller. The desired input, Zsd, is set
to be zero in order to maintain zero displacement of vehicle body (i.e. sprung mass)
regardless of the disturbance, Zr, caused by uneven road profile. Obviously, the only
one input value to the input layer is the minus vehicle body displacement, -Zs. Some
details of the BPN will be depicted in the following paragraphs.
The most essential element of neural network is the neural cell, which is called Neuro
in this study. Figure 7 illustrates the model of a Neuro, in which the symbol f(‧)
denotes the activation function. In this paper, the Sigmoid activation function is
utilized because it is continuously differentiable. The mathematical equations for the
Neuro are [13]
   jijij OWnet  , (10)
and
 jj netO  exp1
1
. (11)
Where Wji : weight from Neuro i in input layer to Neuro j in hidden layer,
θj : bias or threshold at Neuro j,
Oi : input value from Neuro i in input layer,
Oj : output value of Neuro j in hidden layer.
Figure 7. The model of a Neuro
Figure 8 shows the network of EBP, which is proved to be the most effective
supervised learning architecture. The basic principle is the utilization of Gradient
Steepest Descent Method (GSDM) [13]. First, an error function is defined using
GSDM. Thus, it is possible to adjust the weight and/or bias during the learning
process if this error function is minimized. The error function, E, is defined as
Figure 8. The network of EBP
4 Experimental Test Rig
Figure 9 shows the schematic layout of the test rig. The functional block diagram is
shown in Fig. 10. There are two closed-loop hydraulic control units installed in the
test rig. One is the road profile simulator unit used to simulate different road
excitation. The other is the closed-loop controlled servo-hydraulic active suspension
system to attenuate the road disturbance. The road actuator is basically a single-acting
hydraulic cylinder with a maximal stroke of 150 mm. To precisely control the
displacement of the road actuator, a linear potentiometer and a high-speed
proportional valve (Parker-D1FH series) are employed. The system pressure is fixed
at 70 bar. Thus, different road excitations can be generated in the laboratory.
As for the active suspension system, the controllable output force of the single-acting
hydraulic cylinder is used to maintain the zero displacement of the sprung mass. To
achieve this, a linear potentiometer as well as a high-speed proportional valve
(Parker-D1FH series) is also utilized. The suspension hydraulic cylinder (component
No. 5 in Fig. 9) has an effective cross-sectional area of 903 mm2 and a maximal stroke
of 150 mm. For evaluating the ride comfort, an accelerometer is installed on the
sprung mass to measure the vertical acceleration. The system pressure is fixed at 110
Figure 10. Functional block diagram of the test rig
5 Simulation and Experimental Results
For vehicles, the most critical road affecting the ride comfort is the random and
uneven road profile. In the laboratory, however, simplification of the real road profile
is necessary. The road profile test input chosen in this study is a flat road surface with
a sinusoidal concave bump followed by a sinusoidal convex bump, which is generated
by the closed-loop controlled road profile simulator (component No. 9 in Fig. 9).
Figure 11 shows the simulation results using the state equations (7) as well as the
MATLAB/Simulink software. The experimental results are shown in Fig. 12. The
displacement signal is measured by the optical linear scale (component No. 3 in Fig. 9)
attached to the chassis (i.e. sprung mass) of the vehicle. It is observed that the
amplitude of oscillation of the vehicle body after passing the bumps with active
suspension using neural network controller is somewhat smaller than that using the
PID controller. That is, the control performance is improved.
Figure 12. Experimental results showing the displacement of vehicle body subjected
to 4 cm convex and concave bumps
Figure 13. Simulation results showing the acceleration of vehicle body subjected to 4
cm convex and concave bumps
(1) For application in vehicles, the active suspension system is the key technology
for vehicles to achieve both ride comfort and control performance.
(2) For the real application in vehicles, the proposed active suspension structure faces
inevitably some challenges including the cost, the required space in vehicle and
the difficulty to acquire the displacement of wheel, Zu. In the developed test rig,
the displacement of wheel was easily measures by the installed potentiometer
(component No. 8 in Fig. 9). In a real vehicle, however, the install of such a
potentiometer is practically impossible. One possible solution is the utilization of
an accelerometer to acquire first the acceleration of the wheel. And then, the
numerical integration may be used to calculate the required position signal.
(3) The developed PC-based controller can actually not be implemented in a real
vehicle application because of the bulky dimension. One feasible solution is the
introduction of DSP control system.
(4) Since the servo-hydraulic system is highly nonlinear and time-varying, it is
reasonable to have the result that the proposed neural network controller is able to
suppress the vibration amplitude and subsequent acceleration of the vehicle body
in a more efficient manner than the conventional PID controller. For the real
application, however, PID controller is still the best choice because of its
simplicity and easy implementation.
7 Acknowledgement
The financial support of the National Science Council of ROC under grant number
NSC-95-2212-E-224-032 is greatly appreciated.
8 References
[1] M. Sunwoo, K. C. Cheok and N. J. Huang, 1991, “Model Reference Adaptive
Control for Vehicle Active Suspension Systems,”IEEE Trans. on Industrial
Electronics, Vol.38, No.3, pp.217-222.
[2] Y. P. Kuo, T. Hseng and S. Li, 1999, “GA-Based Fuzzy PI/PD Controller for
Automotive Active Suspension System,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial
Electronics, Vol.46, No.6, pp. 1051-1056.
[3] S. Chantranuwathana and H. Peng, 1999, “Adaptive Robust Control for Active
Suspensions,”Proc. of the 1999 American Control Conference, pp.1702-1706.
