系統晶片之靜電防護元件模擬、電路模型與參數最佳化之研究(II) 
“Modeling, Simulation and Optimization of ESD Protection Designs for SOC era (II)” 
計畫編號：NSC94-2215-E-009-084- 
執行期間：94 年 8 月 1 日 至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：李義明 交通大學電信工程系 副教授 
 
一、 中文摘要 
運用前一年研究的 ESD 元件模式與 ESD
電路模擬技術，本報告報導一個探討奈米電晶
體架構之靜電放電防護電路的 floating 電荷效
應之研究成果。藉由考慮新穎的全 silicided N
型 MOSFETs，模擬與實驗顯示本研究探討的
靜電放電防護電路架構比傳統的 silicided 技術
可以承受更好的 ESD 性能。適合解決電路緩
衝級的 ESD 相關問題。 
英文摘要 
In this report, the floating charge effect is 
considered in the design of new full-silicided 
NMOSFETs for designing electrostatic discharge 
(ESD) protection circuit consisting of 
nanodevices. According to the designed, 
fabricated, and studied new full-silicided ESD 
protection nanodevices (e.g., 90 nm CMOS 
devices), our investigation demonstrates that 
there is a significant improvement in sustaining 
ESD robustness than that of the conventional 
full-silicided device. Furthermore, it has an 
excellent electrical efficiency than those of drain 
ballast resistor tied devices. Moreover, our novel 
design exhibits a higher driving current and 
better reliability without suffering the off states 
current of the fully-silicded devices. Those good 
characteristics are especially suitable for the 
output buffer design in which both driving 
capability and ESD robustness have to be 
considered. 
二、 計畫的緣由與目的 
Recently, the susceptibility of integrated 
circuits (ICs) to electrostatic discharge (ESD) has 
warranted the use of dedicated on-chip ESD 
protection circuits. Many attentions had been 
taken in solving the ESD issues; however, design 
of robust ESD circuits still remains challenging 
as critical devices dimensions continuously 
shrinking [1-3]. It is known that the operation 
speed of integrated circuit will be promoted 
faster and faster when the geometry of devices 
becoming smaller and smaller. Unfortunately, a 
high risk of the ESD damage has also been 
caused. The consequence is mainly resulted from 
the fact that a thinning down of gate-oxide will 
make the turn-on voltage of parasitic bipolar 
junction transistors (BJT) higher than the 
breakdown voltage of the gate-oxide; therefore, 
it increases the possibility of gate-oxide damage 
the during ESD stressing. 
To enhance the robustness of the ESD 
protection circuit, the drain ballast resistors made 
from the silicide-blocked diffusion region has 
long been designed between the drain contacts 
and polysilicon gates [4-7]. However, this 
approach requires an additional photo-mask, 
enlarges the device’s area, and needs an extra 
device models in VLSI circuit design. The 
consequence will increase the process cost, lower 
devices density, and degrade the circuit 
performance. Therefore, a fully-silicded 
MOSFET device is an attractive candidate in 
the quasi-static characteristics of the devices. 
Accelerated test is performed by applying 3.3 V 
on both gate and drain electrodes of the device 
for over 20000 seconds. It should be noticed that 
the normal operation voltage of those devices is 
only about 1.2 V, thus we applied almost three 
times of the normal operation voltage at the 
accelerated tests. During the accelerated tests, the 
quasi-static IV characteristics are measured every 
1000 seconds in calculating the transconductance 
(gm) degradation. Based on the numerical 
solution of a set of semiconductor device 
equations, the developed device simulator is 
applied to theoretically explain and investigate 
the floating charge effects in the proposed 
fully-silicided device [14-15]. The simulation 
model includes the Poisson equation, the 
electron-hole current continuity equations, the 
impact ionization, and the electron-hole energy 
conservation equations. 
p-well
drain
n+n+
gate
STI p+p+
dra
in
bo
dy
-co
nta
ct
sou
rce
 
p-well
drain
n+n+
gate
STISTI n+n+
dra
in
bo
dy
-co
nta
ct
sou
rce
 
(a)                         (b)  
Figure 2. (a) A conventional full-silicided N-MOSFET. (b) 
The proposed full-silicided floating body NMOSFET. 
p+ pickup
n+ source
n+ source
n+ source
n+ source
n+ source
n+ source
n+ source
n+ drain
n+ drain
n+ drain
n+ drain
n+ drain
n+ drain
gate
n+ pickup
n+ source
n+ source
n+ source
n+ source
n+ source
n+ source
n+ source
n+ drain
n+ drain
n+ drain
n+ drain
n+ drain
n+ drain
gate
 
(a)                      (b) 
Figure 3. A top view of (a) the conventional and (b) the 
floating body full-silicided N-MOSFET. 
The pMOSFET and nMOSFET pairs are 
most used ESD protection devices that prevent 
the input and output circuit from the ESD current 
damage. The protection schematic is shown on 
Fig. 1 that nMOSFETs and pMOSFETs are tied 
between the input / output pads to ground line 
and power line, respectively. A more detailed 
observation could be drawn that the protection 
devices putted at the input pads are gate 
grounded structure for leakage suppression. On 
the other hand, the protection devices are always 
functioning as an output buffer at the output pads 
to have higher driving capability. According to 
the protection schematic, it will be summarized 
that an ideal protection device has to include 
several characteristics; those are the high ESD 
robustness, short response time, compatibility 
with the integration circuit process and high 
driving capability.  
 
Figure 4. Comparison of TLP IV characteristics between 
the conventional (P+ pickup) and new (n+ pickup) devices. 
 
Figure 5. The TLP IV characteristics of the thin oxides. 
In considering the ESD robustness, the 
fully-silicided devices conventionally do not be 
taken into ESD protection design for their low 
ESD robustness. This is mainly caused from the 
fact that gate-oxide and channel region should be 
floating devices and enhance the ESD strength. 
Besides the much better ESD robustness, 
the quasi-static characteristics, shown in Fig. 7, 
present that our proposed device has a higher 
turn on current than the traditional used 
fully-silicided devices. The increment of the turn 
on current is also caused from the floating charge 
effects. The current enhancement does not affect 
off state current; it is different from the 
conventional devices that the leakage current 
will be enlarged at the same time. The 
improvement of the proposed device results from 
the fact that subthreshold swing is lowered by 
the floating charge. On the other hand, without 
having the floating charge, the subthreshold 
swing of the traditional devices keeps unchanged 
that an increment of on current should degrade 
leakage current simultaneously.   
 
Figure 8. Comparison of the reliability characteristics 
between the conventional (solid line) and the new 
(line-symbol) devices. 
The accelerated stress measurement is also 
performed to investigate the reliability of the 
floating body devices. It is easily observed form 
Fig. 8 that the floating body devices have a 
smaller gm gradation during the hot carrier stress 
process. It is to say that the floating charge effect 
does not lower the reliability of the floating body 
devices but improve the robustness instead. The 
significance is simply caused from the 
diminution of electric field at the drain region. It 
could be summarized that the excellence will 
further make the floating body design more 
valuable. Due to the success of the fully-silicide 
ESD protection structure, device area could be 
greatly saved. The area reduction is shown in 
Table 1. The new design requires only about 
one-third of the conventionally used 
silicide-blocked ESD device. This is very 
important for the sub-100 nm device and circuit 
design because each micron of chip area is 
extremely valuable for modern gigascale IC 
designer.  
Table 1. Comparison of different areas (μm) between the 
body switch able fully-silicided devices and conventionally 
used silicide blocked device. S is equal to the summation 
of Drain, Source, and Gate. R is the normalized ratio with 
respect to the area of the fully-silcided device. 
 
In order to efficiently protect the I/O circuit, 
the turn on voltage of the protection circuit has 
to be lower than the breakdown voltage of the 
gate-oxide. However, it is becoming more and 
more difficult for the conventionally used 
silicide-blocked ESD devices to protect 
gate-oxide since its thickness is being reduced 
rapidly. As we have mention above, turn on 
voltage of the parasitic BJT is very close to the 
breakdown voltage of the gate-oxide. Therefore, 
when considering process variation, the 
silicide-blocked ESD protection devices will 
have a high risk in ESD failure. The proposed 
structure is expected to have an improved 
efficiency in protection circuit from ESD 
damages.  
