 2
McLean et al. [7] set up a system within the 
General Electric (GE) Sage/Idl processing 
package dedicated to process GE MRSI data 
only.  In the meanwhile, we [5] have 
developed a GUI tool in Matlab to facilitate 
analyzing and displaying Siemens SI data.   
 
Proton Echo Planar Spectroscopy Imaging 
(PEPSI) is originally proposed by Mansfield [8] 
and implemented by Posse in 1994 [1, 9].  
One phase encoding dimension is replaced by 
oscillating read out gradient to acquire spatial 
and spectral domain samples simultaneously in 
one excitation.  Without the loss of spatial 
resolution, scan time can be reduced by a factor 
of one spatial encoding dimension.  For 
instance, the spectra acquisition with 32x32 
grid and one average using PEPSI technique 
takes about one minute, while it takes about 30 
minutes by using conventional SI sequences 
[10]. 
 
The main advantage of PEPSI sequence is 
its relative short acquisition time with 
acceptable SNR, resulting in the less possibility 
of the incident motion artifacts.  This means 
the usage of MRSI can be extended in clinical, 
for example, studies on children, cognitively 
impaired patients and patients with movement 
disorders.  However, as for the SNR, due to 
the increasing bandwidth, PEPSI doesn’t 
provide better SNR comparing to the 
conventional SI acquisition.  With the EPI 
readout gradients, noise arises by a factor of 
n  because the bandwidth increases as the 
matrix size, n.  Usually average of n times is 
used for compensation in order to obtain equal 
SNR with that from conventional SI acquisition.  
Additionally, better SNR for PEPSI can be 
accomplished with either higher field strength 
or surface coils and surface phased-arrays.  
Another disadvantage of PEPSI is the apparent 
eddy current interference resulting from the 
strong, fast-switching gradients.  Nevertheless, 
the improvement of the gradient hardware has 
substantially reduced eddy current, and thus 
has made PEPSI more feasible in clinical 
usages [1, 9].  
 
 
四、研究方法 
 
Experiments were conducted in the Department 
of Radiology at Kaohsiung Veterans General 
Hospital with major support from Dr. 
Ming-Ting Wu.  Examinations were 
performed on a 1.5-Tesla GE Signa MR 
scanner (General Electric Medical Systems, 
Milwaukee, WI) using either standard 
quadrature birdcage head coil or 8-channel 
phased array coil. 
 
The PEPSI technique is performed using 
8-channel phased array coils on a 3T MR 
scanner (Trio, Siemens) at National Taiwan 
University Hospital with the support of   Prof. 
Isaac, Wen-Yih Tseng, M.D. Ph.D. at the 
Center for Optoelectronic Biomedicine.  
Spatial encoding of a 32x32 spatial matrix was 
acquired with pixel size of 7x7 mm (TR/TE = 
2000/20 ms, NEX=4) within 4 min. PEPSI data 
were acquired with complete 8-slice outer 
volume suppression applied along the 
perimeter of the brain.  The k-space is 
encoded in a zig-zag trajectory (fig. 1), thus a 
reconstruction process of spectra before using 
LCModel is required [1]. 
 
LCModel has provided a powerful tool for 
spectra analysis.  According to our previous 
development of friendly graphic user interface 
combining LCModel, most spectra of 
conventional MRS acquisitions can be easily 
analyzed.  However, for brand-new MRSI 
techniques, e.g. PEPSI, some modifications of 
our tool are necessary in order to fit their 
spectiality, especially for PEPSI.  Since the 
PEPSI is performed with a multi-channel 
surface array coils, the reconstruction scheme 
will be of vital importance.  For PEPSI, FIDs 
of even-echo and odd-echo will be processed 
separately in order to avoid Nyquist ghost, 
which is commonly seen in EPI acquisitions.  
FID obtained from even-echo and odd-echo 
will be treated as two individual acquisitions 
for one spectrum, which means two averages 
are inherited in each PEPSI acquisition. 
 
To integrate the user interface and the 
combination of PEPSI and phased array data 
with LCModel, we developed a tool using 
Borland C++ Builder 6.0 (BCB, Borland, Inc.) 
on Windows XP (Microsoft, Inc.) system.  
 4
六、圖表 
 
 
 
 
七、參考文獻 
 
[1] S. Posse, G. Tedeschi, R. Risinger, R. Ogg, 
and D. Le Bihan, "High speed 1H 
spectroscopic imaging in human brain by 
echo planar spatial-spectral encoding," 
Magn Reson Med, vol. 33, pp. 34-40, 
1995. 
[2] NSC, 柯正雯, "活體氫質子磁振頻譜的
後處理與分析工具之軟體設計", "The 
software design of the post-processing and 
analysis tool for in vivo proton magnetic 
resonance spectroscopy", 
(92-2218-E-110-006, 
2003.12.01~2004.07.31). 
[3] NSC, 柯正雯, "以短迴訊時間氫質子磁
振頻譜影像對人體大腦代謝物質之研究
", "Quantification of Metabolites in 
Human Brain with Short Echo-Time 
Proton MR Spectroscopic Imaging", 
(93-2213-E-110 -023-, 
2004.08.01~2005.07.31). 
[4] S.-S. Dung, C.-W. Ko, T.-H. Liang, M.-T. 
Wu, and P.-H. Lai, "The comparison of 
absolute concentrations quantified by 
internal water scaling and phantom of 
calibration using LCModel for in vivo 
proton MRS," presented at Proceeding of 
European Society for Magnetic Resonance 
in Medicine and Biology, 23rd Annual 
Scientific Meeting, Warsaw, POLAND, 
2006. 
[5] C.-W. Ko, B. Kreher, and M. Buechert, 
"The Development of GUI for Automatic 
Post Processing and Display of 2D-MRSI 
Figure 2. The framework of the 2D/3D MRSI 
Package. 
Figure 1. Ky-t trajectories of PEPSI acquisition 
methods with different spatial-spectra 
oversampling ratios (n) [1].  
Figure 3. The main GUI of the display 
including a reference image, the calculated 
metabolite map for selected voxel , original 
and fitted spectrum, and the concentration 
Figure 4. The partial screen shot of the
analyzed result using LCModel and our tool. 
Spatial encoding of a 32x32 spatial matrix was 
acquired with pixel size of 7x7 mm (TR/TE = 
2000/20 ms, NEX=4) within 4 min. 
