（一）中文摘要。
關鍵詞：異種移植、界面、半導體製程、微電泳通道元件、充放電反覆循環、電荷累積、訊
號／雜訊比、相位延遲、鎖相放大器、高敏感度。
異種移植為跨越不同物種、進行器官或組織之移植技術，其為臨床移植上的器官短缺問
題，提供有利的解決方案。而異種移植基因造成核酸的某一小個段落序列不同，一般檢測難
以分辨。希望能發展出一套醫學上更為精確的高敏感度檢測技術，使用在異種移植及其相關
的檢測分析上。現今醫學常用之量測，其界面間存在很多複雜的物理機制，足以覆蓋掉疾病
發生初期所產生的微弱信號，致使錯過最佳診斷時機；所以我們在信號很微弱的時候就要能
精確量測到，如果檢測技術更進一步發展，就能及早偵測到疾病並治療之。以傳統半導體製
程設計微電泳通道元件，初期先對一般生物分子如短片段 DNA 作量測，待技術成熟再將來
自正常動物與異種動物之 DNA及蛋白質片段，在此新技術下比對。
本計畫架設一套鎖相放大器量測系統來精準量測微電泳晶片的訊號，並且創新式的提出
以交流電訊號來分折生物分子微電泳響應的新方法，從目前的實驗結果已經足夠証明當初所
預期的一些重要的現象，如高重複性、低誤差率的量測結果等。並且初步驗證了交流電分析
的可行性及其所獨具的各項優點，如充放電反覆循環的優點使量測環境不隨時間改變，所以
這種晶片可做為長時間的分析應用，比一般的微電泳晶片更能節省樣本消耗。另外從交流電
分析取得的複數形式的響應數據，本研究準確量測出生物分子在微電泳中的相位延遲資訊，
並從這些資訊也定義了不會隨量測環境改變的生物分子之特徵響應值（tan θ）。同時也建立了
離子運動的理論模型來研究生物分子的交流電泳響應，在經過此理論的電腦模擬與實際實驗
結果的比對，發現出生物分子的交流響應擁有模型化的可行性。
（二）英文摘要。
Keyword: Xenotransplantation, interface, semiconductor fabrication process,
microelectrophoresis channel devices, charge recycling, charge accumulation,
signal-to-noise (S/N) ratio, phase delay, lock-in amplifier, high sensitivity.
Xenotransplantation means that organs trasplanted crossing the species barrier. With
increasing of number of patients waiting for donors year by year, the source of organ had become a
main problem in operation. But there is a small section difference of nucleic acid in xenotransplant
gene that is difficult to be distinguished in general technology. We decide to develop a
high-sensitivity detection technique in xnotransplantation. In our medical measurement common
used today, lots of complicate physics mechanisms exist among these interfaces that covered tiny
signals generated in the initial stage of diseases, which lead missing the best diagnosis opportunity.
We recommend that a signal can be precisely detected. If our detection technique go to develop
more, an early diagnosis and treatment is possible. Our microelectrophoresis channel devices are
fabricated in semiconductor fabrication process. First we focus on measurement of general
biomolecules, like oligonucleotides. Then we try to apply on analyzing and compare DNA and
mobility of the biomolecule,μ). 
There were some unavoidable problems or nonideal mechanisms exist in traditional
electrophoretic techniques for a long time which interfere measurement results, like mutagenecity
of Ethidium Bromide (EtBr, see Fig. 1), a planar molecule and about the size of one base pair, so it
can fit between two adjacent DNA base pairs, forcing them apart, such a fluorescent dye always
used in eletrophoretic analysis, it binds to duplex DNA by intercalation (also named as “DNA 
intercalator”), then greatly enhances the molecule’s fluorescence, and DNA can then be visualized 
by observing an EtBr-treated gel under UV light. In the future,”label-free”must be the main purpose 
in this field.
Fig. 1 Ethidium Bromide (EtBr) molecule and it intercalates DNA duplex.
Biochip preparation
A. Sample cleaning of standard fabrication protocol
For improving the device reliability and better measurement results, the sample cleaning is
very important and necessary. We sequentially rinse the sample in acetone, methyl alcohol, and
deionized water (D.I. water), each step for ten minutes. After blown dry with nitrogen gas, the
sample is then put in an oven at 90 for 60℃ -90 seconds to bake out the steam. (See Table.1 and Fig.
5, Fig. 6)
Chemical solution Clean time Function
Acetone 10 Clean photoresist and particles
Methyl alcohol 10 Clean Acetone
DI water 10 Clean Methyl alcohol
Table.1 The standard sample cleaning process.
B. Photolithography
To achieve 25-32 μm high etching depth, we spread AZ 4620 thick-film photoresist on the
sample with a spin-coater. The thickness of photoresist film is about 4.9μm – 5.2μm.After coating
Fig. 2 Microelectrophoresis biochip design in our project. Note that non-contact type is our further
research topic in biomolecular AC signal analysis.
D. Metal evaporation and lift-off
We used metal deposition by e-gun evaporating system as electrodes in two terminals of the
microfluidic channel. Theoretically, we need a film depth up to 27– 32μm of the Au material; it is
impracticable for our equipment on hand. For e-gun evaporating system, just 300 –400 nm metal
film thickness could be done per evaporating round (consecutive 100 rounds is
impossible!).Fortunately, utilizing V-groove wet-etching property, melting gold could adhere to the
tilt-wall fortuitously during metal evaporation process, then a bowl-shaped electrode thin-film were
formed.(See Fig. 3)
Fig. 3 Schematic diagram of microelectrophoretic chip.
Tank size 1 mm × 1 mm ／ Electrode width 50 μm
s/n 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
Barrier
width (um)
1 5 10 20 30 40 50 60 80 100 200 300
Tank size 2 mm × 2 mm ／ Electrode width 100 μm
s/n 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
Barrier width (um) 1 5 10 20 50 100 200 300
Fig. 5 Fabrication procedure of contact type microelectrophoretic chip.(a) Glass substrate after
sample cleaning, (b) Spread thick-film photoresist by spin-coating method (The first round),(c)(d)
Exposure and development, a yellow area is removable after sample soaked in Shipley MF-319
developer, (e) Wet-etching by BOE SiO2 etchant to 25 –30μm depth,(f) PR lift-off,(g) Spread
thick-film PR (The second round, double thickness than before), (h)(i) Exposure and development,
(j) Wet-etching by BOE SiO2 etchant to 27 –32 μm depth, (k)Evaporating Au thin-film by e-gun
evaporationg system,(l) PR lift-off.
Fig. 6 Fabrication procedure of non-contact type microelectrophoretic chip.(a) Glass substrate after
sample cleaning, (b) Spread thick-film photoresist by spin-coating method (The first round),(c)(d)
Exposure and development, a yellow area is removable after sample soaked in Shipley MF-319
developer, (e) Wet-etching by BOE SiO2 etchant to 25 –30μm depth,(f) PR lift-off,(g) Spread
thick-film PR (The second round, double thickness than before), (h)(i) Exposure and development,
(j) Wet-etching by BOE SiO2 etchant to 27 –32 μm depth, (k)Evaporating Au thin-film by e-gun
evaporationg system,(l) PR lift-off.
（2）System Architecture
Our measuring system includes an arbitrary function generator (AFG-3252), two lock-in
amplifiers (SR-830 DSP Lock-in/SR-844 RF Lock-in) and a preamplifier. In the following
paragraph, we will use a simplified block diagram to explain the fundamental structure of the
system. Lock-in amplifiers (Stanford Research Systems SR-830/SR-844) were been served as data
acquisition and data calculation. Arbitrary function generator (Tektronix AFG-3252) is responsible
for signal source (including the synchronized signal to lock-in amplifiers).Device signals are
acquired by lock-in after amplified by AD 811.Both the device and home-made preamplifier are put
in a grounded-shielding box, two short BNC cables are linked between the box and the arbitrary
function generator/ lock-in amplifiers. Short BNC cable (10 cm) is very important for high
frequency measurement to minimize the parasite capacitance effect.
Fig. 8 A simplified block diagram of the measuring system.
All three instruments are controlled by GPIB interface program through a personal computer
(PC) (Fig. 8). High-automating measurement can be achieved via our compose program, regardless
of frequency or voltage switching. Changing parameters during the whole measuring procedure
were all controlled by automated program. All equipments, however, need careful considerations,
had been well grounded to avoid ground loop effect. The high-quality DC voltage sources were
provided by a 12V car battery.
During measurement, channel 1(CH 1) is the output of the arbitrary function generator to the
biochip as a signal source, channel 2(CH 2) linked to the reference in (Ref-In) of the lock-in
amplifiers as a reference signal (Fig. 9 (a)). By the principles of lock-in amplifier, the two output
signal must have been synchronized, which had been defined in our control program. In the project,
microchannel with biomolecule solution is our device under test. The system we’ve setup can
(a) (b)
Fig. 10 (a) The relationship of signals in the lock-in amplifier measuring system.
(b) The relationship of source signal and reference signal.
function generator is used to excite the experiment, the response might be the signal waveform
shown below. The signal is sin( )sig r sigV t  where sigV is the signal amplitude, r is the
signal frequency, and sig  is the signal’s phase. Lock-in amplifiers generate their own internal
reference signal usually by a phase-locked-loop locked to the external reference(Fig. 10(b)). In the
diagram, the external reference, the lock-in’s reference, and the signal are all shown. The internal
reference is sin( )L L refV t  .
The lock-in amplifies the signal and then multiplies it by the lock-in reference using a
phase-sensitive detector or multiplier. The output of the PSD is simply the product of two sine
waves.
sin( ) sin( )psd sig L r sig L refV V V t t      ………..(L1)
1 1
cos([ ] ) cos([ ] )
2 2psd sig L r L sig ref sig L r L sig ref
V V V t V V t               …….(L2)
The PSD output is two AC signals, one at the difference frequency [ ]r L  and the other at
the sum frequency[ ]r L  . If the PSD output is passed through a low pass filter, the AC signals
are removed.However, if r equals L , the difference frequency component will be a DC signal.
In this case, the filtered PSD output will be:
1
cos( )
2psd sig L sig ref
V V V    ……………..(L3)
solution(see Table 4).The amount of volume used for one time measurement is 3.6 μL. By simple
calculation, the number of DNA molecules in each experiment is:
6 6 23 14100 10 ( ) 3.6 10 ( ) 6.02 10 ( ) 2.1672 10
mole N
L
L mole
       
( particles)
Monomer
molecular weight
（g/mole）
Pentamer
molecular weight
（g/mole）
Formulated
concentration
（μM）
d ATP 491.2 5A = 1504.1 100
d TTP 482.2 5T = 1459.0 100
d CTP 467.2 5C = 1384.0 100
d GTP 570.2 5G = 1584.1 100
Table 4. Nucleotide sample parameters.
(1) Empty chip and dd Water
As other general experiments, we must check the background data of the empty chip and the
chip with solvent (without DNA) to rule out the background response signal. Fig.12 shows the
empty chip and dd water measurement. We can observe that there exists a property as two parallel
metal electrodes of the empty chip which can be equivalent as a small capacitance. Both the
magnitude of current and phase delay are much smaller than the data that with DNA sample.
(a) (b)
Fig.12 The empty chip and dd water measurement. (a) Current response, (b)Phase delay.
(2) Continuous AC response measurement of four samples (I-T curve)
The experimental data sufficiently demonstrates the stable and highly repeatable signals of AC
measurement. Fig shows the AC response versus time of all four nucleotide samples. We measured
AC response of 4 samples in 0 to 225 seconds; it reveals that AC measurement makes charge
recycling in microelectrophoretic channel. As we predicted before, theenvironment doesn’t change
Nucleotides
Maximum Error
(Response Current)
Maximum Error
(Phase Delay)
5dATP 2.21 % 1.73 %
5dCTP 2.43 % 2.62 %
5dGTP 2.78 % 2.84 %
5dTTP 2.98% 2.68 %
Table. 6 Error bar of the response current phase delay in our measurement.
The tan is an item which independent of charged particle number (N) and the applied electric
field (E),that fits in with our previous expectation. Furtherly, we still have to study the
characteristic current/phase responses of different biomolecules from N and E. The sequence of
molecular weight of the four nucleotides is: 5G>5A>5T>5C, but the sequence of response current
is 5A>5C>5T>5G (Fig. 14(a)). The response curent of dATP (13μA) is much higher then other 3 
nucleotides (5-7μA).In other word, the curent response seems inverse proportional to the 
molecular weight except 5dATP.The mainly reasons are still unclear. By observing the chemical
structure, it seems that no C=O double bond in Adenine (5A) which restricts the hydrogen ion
release in the proximal phosphate. But it still needs to be more confirmed. In the viewpoint of
solid state physics, zero-order scattering center might be one of the principle points.
(a) 5 ATP (b) 5 TTP
(c) 5 dCTP (d) 5 dGTP
Fig. 16 Phase response of 5A, 5T, 5C, and 5G under
various bias (0.25,0.5,0.75,and1 rmsV ).
5. In our case, DNA ionized in the solution or not is still questionable. In general biochemical
protocol, nucleotide samples are always dissolved in the solution with salt, such as TE buffer or
SDS gel ( 0k  ). But that is unsuitable in our measurement because of screening effect by low
molecular weight ions. In order to analyze the biomolecule under our environment (ddH2O), it is
reasonable to determine that the item k (equivalent spring constant) may not be the constant. If
biomolecule ionized, 0k  , if DNA remained as a molecule, 0k  .The measured phase revealed
that at a characteristic frequency, k changed from nonzero to zero. But by iterating all range of
k and, the phase never recovers in the simulation curve. It still needs to study at this point for
theoretical model improvement.
VI. Conclusion and Future Work
Originally, we predicted to finish our overall proposal in three years both in AC signal analysis
and IR/Raman optical detection, but our funding of project just approbated by National Science
Council for the first year, in the other word, the funds for our project is not enough. So we choose to
complete the fundamental AC electric signal analysis in biomolecular ID detection. We have
successfully established a lock-in amplifier systems focus on biomolecular AC measurement, and
also demonstrated a new model and related method to analyze the biomolecular AC signal response.
Although the present data amount are not very much enough , it is sufficient to prove some
important phenomena like highly repeatable and low error range of the present experimental results.
And we ensure the advantages of charge recycling effect remains measuring environment doesn’t
change with time, so this type of biochip can be applied in long time analysis, and decrease wasting
of samples. The complex form of response signal acquired from AC measurement. Our research
precisely obtained the information of phase delay in microelectrophoresis and defined the
environment-independent characteristics response ( tan) .At the same time, we also established the
theoretical model of ion movement to study biomolecular AC response. After comparing the
