  1
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
不確定情況下產品創新研發管道最佳化之研究 
Structuring Optimal R&D Pipeline for Product 
Innovation under Uncertainty 
計畫編號：NSC 97－2221－E－005－066 
執行期限：97 年 8月 1 日至 98 年 7月 31 日 
主持人：王瑞德   國立中興大學科技管理研究所 
計畫參與人員：簡婉真、劉人瑋、林世超、陳奕璋        
國立中興大學科技管理研究所 
 
一、中文摘要 
創造高市場價值的創新研發專案，通常有較高的
技術與市場不確定性，因此若只發展一種產品技術
或概念以取得商機會有較高的失敗風險。為了增加
創新產品上市成功的機會，有些產業(如生技製藥、
電腦、資訊、通訊等)會同時發展多個產品技術或概
念，並延遲選定單一技術及概念的決策，以取得商
機。這是因為過早選定產品技術或概念可能會限制
未來產品創新的機會，而且同時發展多個產品技術
或概念所增加的額外成本，可能被新市場所帶來的
超額營收來彌補。本研究發展一個研發管道結構化
(pipeline structuring)模式來決定每一研發階段的最
佳方法(技術或概念)組合，以提高取得市場商機成
功的機會並最大化市場潛在利潤。所發展的方法論
整合動態規劃與 Monte Carlo 模擬以決定最佳研發
管道結構並檢視其可能無法達成目標市場績效的
風險，並以 AIDS 疫苗開發計畫為例。本研究方法
可協助決策者在不確定情況下進行取捨分析來決
定在有限的研發資源及是否採用單一方法或多方
法策略，以最大化市場商機成功的機會。另外，本
研究可協助高科技產業應用彈性產品開發的觀念
有效管理創新產品研發。 
關鍵詞：產品創新、風險管理、管道管理、管理彈
性、動態規畫、蒙特卡羅模擬。 
 
Abstract 
An innovative product development project that 
creates great business opportunities usually involves 
high technology and market uncertainty. It is easy to 
see that developing only one technological approach 
or product concept to capture market opportunity is 
too risky. To increase flexibility to respond the 
technology and market uncertainty, some industries 
(e.g., computers, information technology & 
communications, and pharmaceuticals) will consider 
developing alternative technologies or product 
concepts at the same time and delay the commitment 
to a particular technologies or concepts in order to 
have a better chance to meet future business 
opportunities. This is because the single decisions 
committed at the early R&D phase may constrain the 
future opportunity and additional development costs 
with the multiple alternatives can be compensated by 
the increased revenue gained by the expanded market 
share. The objective of this research is to develop a 
pipeline structuring methodology to determine an 
appropriate set of approaches for each stage of R&D 
pipeline to increase the success rate of product launch 
for capturing new business opportunity. The proposed 
methodology integrates the dynamic programming 
approach with the Monte-Carlo simulation to find an 
optimal pipeline structure and examine the risk of not 
achieving the target market performance. The 
proposed methodology is illustrated with a preventive 
AIDS vaccines development project. The proposed 
methodology can help managers make the tradeoff 
analysis between single-approach development and 
multi-approach development under uncertainty and 
effectively allocate limited R&D resources on 
prospective projects to increase the success rate of 
product innovation. In addition, the proposed 
methodology helps hi-tech firms better manage their 
innovative R&D projects with the concept of flexible 
product development.    
Keywords: Product innovation, R&D pipeline, 
Managerial flexibility, Risk management, Dynamic 
programming, Monte Carlo simulation. 
 
二、Introduction 
 
With the increasing competitive and globalized 
marketplace, innovation is one of the important key 
strategies for high technology firms to survive and 
keep growth. Therefore, how to properly managing 
and increase success rate of an innovative product 
development project plays a key role in the successful 
performance for these firms. The early phases of a 
product development project mainly contribute in the 
success of product innovation. It has been recognized 
that nearly 75% life cycle cost is committed by the 
end of conceptual development. Early decisions are 
unlikely to be changed during downstream phases, 
because the cost and time of any engineering change 
dramatically increase at the downstream phases. 
  3
Appropriate probability distributions are used to 
represent uncertain parameters (e.g., success 
probability, potential profit, and development cost). 
 
三、Methodology 
 
There is a business opportunity that can be 
captured by launching appropriate new products (e.g., 
new car or new drug). Multiple approaches (concept 
cars or candidate compounds) may be chosen and 
funded to develop this new drug, but none of them are 
guaranteed to be successfully launched to the market. 
We assume that a development pipeline can be 
divided into multiple stages (e.g., discovery, 
preclinical trials, and clinical trials I, II, III for drug 
development) and the problem is to determine whether 
single or multiple approaches should be funded at 
each of these stages. 
Since there is great uncertainty in technology and 
market for an innovative project, we need to model 
uncertainty and fluctuations in uncertain R&D process, 
allowing decision makers to examine the behaviors of 
a selected R&D pipeline operating in uncertain 
environment. This research develop a dynamic 
programming algorithm to determine an optimal R&D 
pipeline along the development stage to maximize the 
expected profit and uses the Monte-Carlo simulation 
approach to examine the behavior of the R&D 
pipeline. 
Assume that all approaches or concepts are 
targeted on the same market with the different 
development cost and different success probability at 
each development stage. Let T be the number of stages 
of the pipeline. Each approach i can be characterized 
by its required development cost itcˆ  and success 
probability itpˆ  at stage t, where the development 
cost and success probability of each stage are 
represented by probability distributions. The decision 
is to determine which approaches or concepts should 
be selected at each stage in order to meet the target 
product performance.  
The proposed methodology consists of five steps 
(see Figure 2). Step 1 sets parameters and target 
performance. Due to great uncertainty in technology 
and market, the market value for the innovative 
project has two possible extremes: either great success 
or big loss.  Step 2 estimates the probability 
distribution of revenue for the project, based on the 
parametric values set in Step 1. Step 3 applies the 
developed pipeline structuring algorithm to determine 
optimal pipeline. Step 4 uses the Monte-Carlo 
simulation (Rubinstein and Kroese 2007) to examine 
the behavior of the determined R&D pipeline. If the 
estimated performance meets the target performance, 
then stop the algorithm; otherwise, go back to step 1 
to continue the process.  
(1) Revenue estimation model 
Denote 
N: average number of new customers per year 
R: expected lifecycle return from a customer 
w: market share 
r: cost of capital 
α: contribution rate (pretax profit plus R&D cost 
as a percentage of revenue) 
β: tax rate 
λ: worldwide cumulative sales multiplier 
m: number of competitors 
p: success probability 
 
 
Figure 2. The proposed methodology 
 
The expected profit can be calculated as follows: 
π = αRNwλ(1 - β)(1 + r)-T, where (1) 
w = ∑ ቀ ଵ
ଵା௜
ቁ௠௜ୀ଴ ቂቀ
݉
݅ ቁ ݌
௜ሺ1 െ ݌ሻ௠ି௜ቃ (2) 
Since great uncertainty exists at the early R&D 
stage, each parameter is characterized by a probability 
distribution. For simplicity, this paper assumes that 
each of the parameters is assumed to be a triangular 
distribution, which is characterized by three 
parameters: lower-bound value, mostly-like value, and 
upper-bound value. The Monte-Carlo simulation is 
used to estimate possible values of the expected profit 
and the Anderson-Darling and Chi-Square 
goodness-of-fit tests (D'Agostino and Stephens 1986) 
are used to select a probability distribution that best 
fits for the data set generated by the simulation. The 
Anderson-Darling test corrects the 
Kolmogorov-Smirnov method’s tendency to 
over-emphasize discrepancies in the central region. 
 
(2) The pipeline structuring algorithm 
All approaches are targeted on the same market 
with the different development cost and different 
success probability at each development stage. Let T 
be the number of stages of the pipeline. Each approach 
i can be characterized by its required development 
cost itcˆ  and success probability itpˆ  at stage t, 
where the development cost and success probability of 
each stage are represented by triangular distributions. 
Similarly, potential revenue Rˆ  of the opportunity is 
characterized by a probability distribution estimated 
by the revenue estimation model. The decision is to 
determine which approaches or concepts should be 
selected at each stage in order to maximize expected 
profit. 
Set parameters and 
target performance 
Revenue 
estimation model 
Pipeline structuring 
algorithm 
Monte-Carlo 
simulation model 
Accept? 
Yes 
No
  5
about 45.85% and the probability of earning target 
profit 100M is about 36.5% (see Figure 4).  
 
 
Figure 2. Probability distribution of revenue 
 
 
Figure 3. Probability distribution of market share 
 
Table 2. success probability and R&D cost for six 
development approaches 
Phase I Phase II Phase III 
App i p c(M) p c(M) p c(M) 
1 0.764  $1.77 0.764 $1.77  0.764 $1.77 
2 0.700  $2.10 0.700 $2.10  0.700 $2.10 
3 0.706  $2.17 0.706 $2.17  0.706 $2.17 
4 0.753  $2.27 0.753 $2.27  0.753 $2.27 
5 0.894  $2.16 0.894 $2.16  0.894 $2.16 
6 0.774  $2.40 0.774 $2.40  0.774 $2.40 
 
The above result shows the nature of high risk for 
developing new drug, though the parallel development 
strategy has been used.  
Let compare the pipeline with only one selected 
approach to the parallel development approach. Using 
the deterministic pipeline structuring algorithm with 
limited budget that only allows one approach to be 
chosen, approach 5 was selected along the R&D 
pipeline. The probability of obtaining positive profit is 
about 26.17% and the probability of earning target 
profit 100M is about 23.61%. Figure 5 shows the 
overlay chart for probability distribution for both the 
parallel development approach (with flexibility, blue 
color) and the single approach (without flexibility, red 
color). It shows that though the parallel development 
strategy will increase success rate of product launch 
(about 1.5 times to the single approach), it also incurs 
higher R&D cost. The variance of profit for the 
parallel approach is also higher than the single 
approach. Using the mean profit for the real options 
analysis (Copeland and Antikarov 2003), the value of 
flexibility (FV) for the parallel approach is: 
FV = 61.59 – 43.26 = 18.33 
To further discussion on finding appropriate set of 
alternative approaches for each stage that could keep a 
balance between successful product launch and cost 
overrun, please refer to the full version of the paper 
(Wang 2009).  
 
 
Figure 4. Probability distribution of market share 
 
 
Figure 5. Probability distribution of market share 
 
五、Self-Evaluation 
 
We have accomplished 90% of the expected result 
of this project. For the high risk R&D project, we can 
observe double peaks existing in the probability 
distribution of potential profit. How to manage 
uncertainty to avoid risk and capture a business 
opportunity has become one of the important issues 
for managing innovative R&D projects. Please refer to 
Wang (2009) for details of the proposed methodology 
and computational experiments. The final manuscript 
will be submitted to an international journal for 
publication.  
 
References 
 
1. Bhattacharya, S., Krishnan, V. and Mahajan, V. 
(1998) Managing new product definition in highly 
dynamic environments. Management Science, 
44(11), 19 - 34. 
2. Copeland, T. E. and V. Antikarov (2003). Real 
Options : A Practitioner's Guide. US, Texere. 
3. D'Agostino, R. B. and M. A. Stephens (1986). 
Goodness-of-fit techniques, Dekker. 
4. Ding, M. and J. Eliashberg (2002). "Structuring 
the new product development pipeline." 
Management Science 48(3): 343-363. 
1 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 97－2221－E－005－066 
計畫名稱 
不確定情況下產品創新研發管道最佳化之研究 
Structuring Optimal R&D Pipeline for Product Innovation under Uncertainty 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
王瑞德  國立中興大學科技管理研究所專任教授 
會議時間地點 2008 年 7 月 6 ~9 日    Metropolitan Hotel, Athens, Greece 
會議名稱 The 7th International Conference on Management 
發表論文題目 An Association Rule Mining Approach for Customer Requirements Analysis 
 
一、參加會議經過 
The 7th International Conference on Management 於 2009 年 7 月 6 ~9 日在希臘雅典舉
行。會議共 4 日。研討會涵蓋的研究領域較偏會計、財務管理、行銷管理等理論與實務
的應用，科技管理相關議題較少，4 天約有一百多篇論文發表。本人於 7 月 5 日前往希
臘雅典，口頭報告在 7 月 6 日(9:00~10:40AM)於 Metropolitan Hotel 舉行，該旅館位在雅
典郊區，離市區旅館有 40 分的車程，交通不是很方便，與會人員多有抱怨。該場次主題
是 Marketing，本人報告主題是運用資料探勘技術分析顧客需求，這也是本人非行銷領域
學者卻被歸在該場次的主因，所發表論文將被出版為會議論文集，預計明年以後出版，
這也讓我再次見識到南歐民族不疾不徐的工作方式。 
 
二、與會心得 
      這次研討會與多位國際學者互動交流，獲益良多，與會心得歸納如下: 
‧ 因會議地點在雅典，南歐附近國家學者多參與發表，因此著重議題較是探討該區域產業相
關議題，如服務業的顧客行為分析與品牌管理、銀行業的風險管理等，較少探討高科技產
業相關管理議題，與台灣主要著重在高科技產業發展議題有所不同，但台灣近來也積極拓
展服務產業，歐洲產業相關管理研究議題或許有值得台灣學術界學習的地方。 
‧ 除了理論發展外，越來越多重視實務應用的可行性，因此演講者提出的理論模式最常被問
的問題是: "是否有實務應用案例？ " 
‧ 該會議規劃有部分不週到之處，如會前建議下榻旅館最好接近市中心，但最後卻離市中心
