 2
References ................................................................................................................................................................... 31 
   
1. Introduction 
1.1  Background 
Gas-particle flows considered in this work are gaseous flows laden with solid 
particles. Gas-particle flows are frequently encountered in engineering applications, such 
as powder classifiers, powder mixing devices, fluidized bed combustors, pneumatic 
transport, solid-rocket plumes, particle coating, powder drying, etc. Gas-particle flows also 
appear widely in nature, such as pollution diffusion, dust storms, mudflows, etc. An 
important physical process in gas-particle flows is inter-particle collisions, which makes 
the entire problem complicated and difficult to be revolved while the number of particles 
becomes huge. The development of efficient approaches with considering inter-particle 
collisions can help us improve the design of engineering devices regarding with 
gas-particle flows via numerical simulations. 
Depending on the frequency of inter-particle collisions, gas-particle flows can be 
classified into several categories. Based on the classification defined by Crowe et al. 
(1996), the particle motion is controlled by the surface and the body forces on the particle 
in a dilute flow. In a dense flow, the particle motion is controlled primarily by the 
inter-particle interaction. Tsuji (2000) further classified particle-laden flows into three 
categories, in the view of the extent of inter-particle interaction, as follows. 
(1) Collision-free flows (dilute cases). 
(2) Collision-dominated flows (non-dense cases). 
(3) Contact-dominated flows (dense cases). 
Sommerfeld (2001) suggested the following quantitative criterion to distinguish the dilute 
and the dense regions of particle-laden flows: 
 4
ability to form jets or deep spouting motion rather than bubbles. Particles are blown out 
with a formed jet in the spouting motion as the flow velocity is increased. The 
characteristics of particles in Geldart’s classification are summarized in Table 1.1 (Rhodes, 
2001). 
The interaction due to inter-particle collisions plays an important role in various 
phenomena of fluidized beds. Cundall and Strack (1979) developed the discrete element 
method (DEM) for multi-body collisions, which expresses the contact forces with the use 
of springs, dashpots, and friction sliders. Tsuji et al. (1993) firstly coupled the discrete 
element method (DEM) with computational fluid dynamics (CFD) for a simulation of 2-D 
fluidized beds. The gas was assumed inviscid and its flow was solved simultaneously with 
the motion of particles by taking into account the interaction between the particles and the 
gas. The Lagrangian tracking particle motion, then, became applicable to the contact- 
dominated flows such as bubbling or spouting fluidized beds. Henceforward the 
DEM+CFD becomes popular and important in the simulations of the applications to 
powder technology containing both particles and fluids. The real industrial issues, such as 
agglomeration, gas-solid reactions, and / or heat transfer can be directly incorporated into 
the model without the tedious derivation of stochastic mechanics, which is not only 
indirect but also sometimes impossible from analytical reasons. 
Tsuji et al. (1993) performed DEM+CFD for a simulation of 2-D fluidized beds. 
The formation of bubbles and slugs and the process of particle mixing were observed in 
qualitatively and quantitatively agreement with the experiments. In addition, the predicted 
pressure agreed well with the measurements. Gera et al. (1998) made calculations by using 
the DEM+CFD and the two-fluid model, and they compared the differences between these 
two results. They found that the inter-particle friction, which is incorporated in the 
two-fluid model through the pressure and the viscosity for the solid phase, needed to be 
tuned-in for each case running with the different set of physical properties. Inaccurate 
determination of the empirical correlations for solid’s pressure either through the 
experiments or through the kinetic theory of granular media would hinder the true bubbling 
characteristics of the fluidized bed in the two-fluid model. The discrete element method 
(DEM) does not require any empirical input of solid’s rheology, which makes it more 
appropriate for some modeling situations. Nevertheless, the two-fluid model takes less 
 6
flows such as fluidized beds. The baseline approach is performed in a two-dimensional 
simulation of a spouted fluidized bed containing Group-D particles. The flow behavior is 
discussed and the results are compared with the available experimental data made by Tsuji 
et al. (1993). A virtual particle method based on the balances of mass, volume, and forces 
between larger virtual-particles and small real-particles is developed too. The new 
approach is compared with the basic approach in a two-dimensional simulation of a 
bubbling fluidized bed. 
 
2. Physical Modellings 
2.1  Modeling of Fluid Motion 
A fluidized bed is filled with particles and a gas flow is injected into the bed from 
the bottom. The interaction between the particles and the gas is the most important 
mechanism in the system. Since the volumetric fraction of particles is rather high, the 
information of the local void fraction has to be taken into account in the formulation. 
Anderson and Jackson (1967) derived the locally averaged equations of transport variables 
for the fluid mechanical description of fluidized beds but they neglected the locally mean 
variables of fluctuations in control volumes. The coupling of the dispersed (particle) phase 
and the continuous (carrier fluid) phase equations is an important attribute of the Eulerian- 
Lagrangian approach. Kafui et al. (2002) examined two coupling forms: one employing the 
pressure gradient force (PGF model) and the other a buoyancy force based on the fluid 
density (FDB model). The PGF model showed the better agreement with pressure drop - 
superficial gas velocity trends and the minimum fluidization velocities as compared to the 
experimental observations. Hence, the governing equations of locally averaged mean 
variables of the fluid phase in the PGF model is employed in this study and can be written 
as below. 
Continuity 
 8
Figure 2.1 presents stereographically the distribution of the value of 
2
(1 )
p g
g
d 
   versus the 
two variables of θg and Rep. It is clearly seen that there exists a sharp gap in the values of 
2
(1 )
p g
g
d 
   obtained between Eq. (2.4) and Eq. (2.5) at θg = 0.8. Moreover, the gap is 
increased with increasing Rep. According to the study of Koch and Hill (2001), they 
pointed out that Ergun correlation overpredicted the drag force while θg > 0.5. Hence, it 
can be concluded, as observed from Fig. 2.1, that the Ergun correlation overpredicts the 
effective drag force in the range of 0.5 < θg < 0.8. 
Both the correlations of Ergun (1952) and Wen and Yu (1966) consist of the 
components with and without relating to Rep. The components without relating to Rep are 
attributed to the Stokes drag, while the components with relating to Rep account for the 
deviation from the Stokes drag. In order to match the corresponding components in both 
the correlations of Ergun (1952) and Wen and Yu (1966), a correction model of drag 
correlation is derived in the following. 
Components of Stokes drag 
1.7
pFor Re 1000,  150(1 ) 18  0.84g g g        
pFor Re 1000,  150(1 ) 0            1.00g g       
Components accounting for deviation from Stokes drag 
1.70.687
0.156 1
For Re 1000,
    1.75Re 2.7Re
    1.24    Re
P
p p g
g p p p gRe where Re

 

 


   
 
1.7
For Re 1000,
    1.75 Re 0.33Re  0.37 
P
p p g g 

    
Hence, a joint correlation of the drag force based on the correlations of Ergun (1952) and 
Wen and Yu (1966) can be expressed in the form of  
 10
pi
p Di Pi Ci Gi
du
m F F F F
dt
             (2.8) 
where FDi, FPi, FCi, and FGi denote the effective drag force due to fluid-particle interaction, 
the force due to a pressure gradient, the contact forces during inter-particle or-particle-wall 
collisions, and the gravitational force, respectively; 
Rotation 
pi
p Ci
d
I T
dt
              (2.9) 
where TCi denotes the contact torque during collisions. 
The effective drag force can be calculated in a control volume using a general form 
of 
( )Di CV gi piF V U U             (2.10) 
Here DiF  represents the sum of the drag forces distributed on each individual particle 
in the control volume CVV  as 
2
2
   (Total drag force in the C.V.) 
the surface area of the particle in the C.V.        
Sum of surface area of all particles in the C.V.
      = ( )
Di
pj
gi pi CV
pj
j
F
d
U U V
d



  
    (2.11) 
For instance, as depicted in Fig. 2.3, there are two small particles and one large particle 
which is with twofold diameter of the small particles in CVV . In other words, the 
effective drag force equal to 6 force units in CVV  which is composed of 4 force units 
exerted on the large particle and 1 force unit exerted on each small particle. 
 
 12
are the tangential displacement vector as the position of the initial contact point on the 
surface of the m-th particle relative to the initial contact point on the surface of the l-th 
particle, the relative velocity of the contact point on the m-th particle relative to the contact 
point on the l-th particle, and the tangential unit vector. The function min ( , )a b  is defined 
by 
min ( , ) sgn( ) min( , )a b a a b            (2.14) 
where 
  1     a 0
sgn( )
1     a 0
if
a
if
    
The spring stiffness kn and kt can be given as either fixed constants by the linear 
contact theory (Hooke’s law) as shown in Fig. 2.5a or functions by the nonlinear contact 
theory (Hertz’s theory) as shown in Fig. 2.5b. The linear contact theory assumes the 
contact force depending linearly on the displacement. The contact forces are dependent 
nonlinearly on the displacement n  in the nonlinear contact theory. By using the 
nonlinear theory, the stiffness are expressed as 
2 2
, ,1 1/ 2 1/ 2
, ,
4 1 1( ) ( )
3
p l p ml m
n n
l m p l p m
r r
k
E E r r
            (2.15) 
, , 1/ 2 1/ 2
, ,
2 28( )( )p l p ml mt n
l m p l p m
r r
k
G G r r
             (2.16) 
where the shear modulus 
2(1 )
l
l
l
EG   . 
The damped energy loss through the contact process is model by the dashpots. By 
solving the one-dimensional harmonic motion with a fixed constant of the spring stiffness 
between the l-th particle and the m-th wall as depicted in Fig 2.6, the normal damping 
coefficient of the dashpot depends on the restitution coefficient (ew) as (Tsuji et al., 1993) 
 14
, , 1/ 2 1/ 4
, ,
[ ]p l p mn c n n
p l p m
m m
k
m m
             (2.22) 
Moreover, the tangential damping coefficient is usually assumed as same as the normal 
damping coefficient. 
Accompanying a tangential contact force, a contact torque is induced to rotate the 
particle as shown in Fig. 2.8. The contact torque acting on the l-th particle due to the 
contact with the m-th particle can be expressed as 
,Ck p l ijk j CtiT r n F             (2.23) 
Therefore, the total contact torque exerting on the l-th particle is equal to the sum of 
contact torques. 
 
2.2.3  Virtual particle method 
DEM is a deterministic method, whose applicability is strictly limited by the 
number of tracked particles in simulations. In order to reduce the computational 
expenditure, a way to extend the applicable range of DEM is to treat a cluster of 
real-particles as a representative virtual-particle. Figure 2.9 shows the concept of a real 
system represented by a virtual system. It assumes a virtual particle, denoted by a subscript 
“2”, representing a cluster of W real particles, denoted by a subscript “1”. W should be 
notably kept as a constant for all particles as shown in Fig. 2.10 in order to maintain the 
effect of small particles passing through the void between larger particles in polydispersed 
cases. The balances of mass, volume, and momentum between a virtual-particle and the 
sum of all represented real-particles within the cluster lead to the relations, which are 
derived in the following. 
(1) Mass & Volume 
1 2p pWm m              (2.24) 
 16
represent 8 large real-particles and 16 small real-particles in the C.V. If the total drag force 
equals to 48 force units in the C.V., the distributed drag forces are then equal to 4 force 
units exerting on each large real-particle and 1 force unit exerting on each small 
real-particle. Thus, the effective drag forces are 32 force units exerting on the each large 
virtual-particle and 8 force units exerting on the each small virtual-particle. 
(B) Pressure force 
The relation between the forces due to the pressure gradient in two systems is 
3 3 3 3
1 2 1 2p p p p
i i
p pWd d Wd d
x x
             (2.32) 
The force is certainly balanced under the condition of the volume of particles being 
balanced. 
(C) Contact force 
The contact forces should be balance to each system as 
1 2Ci CiWF F                 (2.33) 
The contact force can be split into a normal part and a tangential part. 
1 1 2 2( )n i t i n i t iW F F F F               (2.34) 
The inter-particle contact force is a complicated function of the particles’ positions. Here 
the normal contact force is selected as an example to derive the balance relationship 
between the real and virtual systems. In a regularly packing condition as depicted in Fig. 
2.12, the balances of the normal contact forces and normal displacements between two 
systems must obey, respectively, the following relations: 
2 / 3
1 2n i n iW F F                (2.35) 
1/ 3
2 1n nW                 (2.36) 
 18
The balances of tangential contact forces, angular momenta, and torques are 
neglected. They are calculated directly from the virtual system in this work. The relations 
between the real-particles and the representing virtual-particle are summarized as follows. 
2 1p p               (2.26) 
1/ 3
p2 1pd d W             (2.27) 
2 (Total drag force in the C.V.) 
Represented surface area by the virtual particle in the C.V.          
Sum of represented surface area by all virtual particles in the C.V.
DiF 
   
                (2.31) 
1/ 3
2 1n nk W k  and 1/ 32 1t tk W k  for the linear contact theory.   (2.38) 
1/ 6
2 1E W E  for the nonlinear contact theory.      (2.40) 
The models of Kazari et al. (1995), Sakano et al. (2000), Kawaguchi et al. (2002) 
and Kuwagi et al. (2004) calculated contact forces by the spring properties in the real 
system. They did not consider the balance of contact forces in their model and, therefore, it 
might cause some prediction errors on the particle motion as subjected to strong contact 
forces. This study contributes the novel relations of 
 1/ 32 1k W k  for the linear contact theory 
 1/ 62 1E W E  for the nonlinear contact theory 
to balance the contact forces between a real system and a virtual system, which were 
ignored in the other models. 
 
3. Validation of Basic DEM on Spouted Fluidized Bed of 
 20
assumed to be equal to that of the experiments, i.e. about 220 mm, thus 2400 particles are 
tracked two-dimensionally in a region of the size 150 mm × 220 mm × 4 mm. It assumes 
that the contact forces between the particles and the walls do not act in the direction 
perpendicular to the paper. Figure 3.1 shows the configuration of the calculation domain in 
the 2-D simulation of the spouted fluidized bed. 
DEM accounts the interaction between a particle and the wall, with the 
corresponding wall properties used; however, the wall is assumed so rigid that no 
displacement and movement of the wall results from this interaction. The non-linear 
contact theory is performed, and the tolerable maximum deformation of particles is set to 
be less than 10 % of the particle diameter in the simulation. The calculations are made with 
the condition of the Young’s modulus equal to 1.0 MPa, the Poisson ratio equal to 0.25, 
and the slip friction coefficient equal to 0.3. The restitution coefficient of the particles is 
0.9, and then the parameter αc is set as 0.07 referring to Fig. 2.7. The conditions of the 
calculations are summarized in Table 3.1. 
 
3.2. Estimation of Minimum Fluidization Velocity 
When a fluid is passed upwards through a bed of particles, the pressure loss in the 
fluid due to the frictional resistance increases as the fluid flow rate is increased. The 
minimum fluidization velocity is reached when the upward drag force exerted by the fluid 
on the particles is equal to the apparent weight of the particles in the bed. 
(1 ) (1 )bottom p g bottom packed p g
packed
PPA g A H g
H
            (3.1) 
The drag force of the packed particles can be determined using the empirical correlation of 
Ergun (1952). In the gas phase, the pressure drop between the top and bottom of the bed 
equals to the sum of the interactive drag between the particles and the gas flow. It results 
2
    
( / )
[ (1 )]{ [150(1 ) 1.75 ]( / )}
g bottom
g g P mf g
bottom packed g g mf g
P g
PA
d U
A H U
d

     

      
 22
 
3.3. Raceway Phenomena 
Figures 3.2 ~ 3.14 show the sequential snapshots of the particle distribution, the 
void fraction, the mean velocity vectors of particles and the streamlines of particle 
velocities in the fluidized beds at the different superficial gas velocities of 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 
2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.4, 2.6, 2.8, 3.0, 3.5 and 4.0 m/s, respectively. The superficial velocity is the 
only one different parameter in the results shown among Figures 3.2 ~ 3.14. The 
gas-particle flow shows various behaviors with the gas velocity when the gas is issued into 
the packed bed.  
At the low velocity below 1.8 m/s, the bed expands but no circulation of particles is 
observed in Figs. 3.2 ~ 3.4. The pressure drop (see Fig. 3.16a) is increased with increasing 
the gas velocity, whereas the pressure (see Fig. 3.15) is kept at the nearly constant value at 
the specified gas velocity. 
As a superficial gas velocity is above 1.9 m/s, the information of a void cavity 
located in front of the gas inlet and the streamlines of particle velocities reveals the 
formation of internally circulating particle motion as shown in Figs. 3.5 and 3.3. Such 
phenomenon around the cavity is called “raceways” to represent the void region and the 
circulating particles (Omori, 1987). The falling particles in front of the jet are caught by the 
jet stream, and then are carried to impact on the raceway wall. They descend along the wall 
to re-enter the jet. The circulating flow of particles makes some exchange between the 
circulating particles and the surrounding particles of a raceway. Particles circulate and mix 
in the region exhibiting raceway phenomenon, whose size increases with the issued 
velocity at the nozzle. Since the width of the bed is limited, so the circulation appears 
asymmetrically. Cavity size is found to be fixed at a constant gas flow rate and increased as 
increasing the issued velocity of gas. There is no bubble rising through the bed, Fig. 3.16a 
thus shows that the corresponding pressure waves are maintained constantly. 
At the gas velocity of 2.1 m/s (Figs. 3.7), a stable cavity no longer exists. As long 
as some pasted particles peel off from the roof of the cavity or particles descends along the 
wall of the raceway, the particles are then caught in the middle of the raceway. Once the 
 24
3.4. Pressure Drop – Superficial Gas Velocity Profiles 
Figure 3.17 shows the plot of pressure drop versus superficial gas velocity, which is 
useful for characterizing the fluidization of gas-particle systems. The presence of different 
types of flow behavior is obvious from the plot of bed pressure drop versus the gas velocity. 
There are three flow regions: packed bed (AB and FE), static cavity (BC and EC), and 
fluidization (CD). The regions AB and FE are the packed bed regions. Particles do not 
move relative to one another and their separation (bed expansion) is kept constantly. The 
relationship of the pressure loss versus the fluid velocity can be described generally by the 
Ergun correlation in regions AB and FE. 
In the fully fluidized region CD, it is leveling off that the average pressure drop 
approach the value due to the bed weight for the case of the bed height being long. Present 
calculations show the trend of descending pressure drop in this region. It is due to the 
channeling effect which allows the gas passing directly through the bed. The point C 
denotes the interception of the loop as increasing the gas velocity and the loop as 
decreasing the gas velocity. This point is often used in determining the minimum 
fluidization velocity ( mfU ). In Sec. 3.1.2, the minimum fluidization velocity has been 
estimated to be a value of 1.7 m/s. The following equation is another widely used for the 
estimation of mfU  (Wen and Yu, 1966): 
3
2 1/ 2
2[(33.7 0.0408 ) 33.7]
p g p
mf
p g
d g
U
d
 
         (3.8) 
The estimated value of mfU  for the condition of this case is 1.77 m/s. Note that Eqs. (3.7) 
and (3.8) were derived under an assumption that the gas velocity was uniformly distributed 
in the bed while the gas is issued on the whole bottom and the effect of the confined wall is 
neglected. Clearly, the conditions embedded in Eqs. (3.7) and (3.8) are different from the 
presently investigated case. mfU  is 1.9 m/s in this study, which is slightly higher than the 
values estimated with Eqs. (3.7). 
The pressure losses in the regions BC and EC are higher than those in the region 
CD. For a given gas velocity, the pressure drop accelerated from a fixed bed is larger than 
 26
too large. In the studies of Kazari et al. (1995) and Kawaguchi (2002), the grid size (C.V.) 
was maintained invariant no matter how large the virtual particle was. Kawaguchi et al. 
(2002) argued that the inconsistencies of the predicted flow behaviors between using the 
real particle and using the virtual particle was attributed to the different void fractions 
calculated from an invariant grid size but filled with different (real or virtual) particle 
diameters. Thus, the width of the C.V.s is kept as 2.5 times of the diameter of the virtual 
particles in the four investigated cases here. Too coarse grids lose the resolution of the 
predicted fluid properties; nevertheless, too fine grids do not allow a C.V. containing 
sufficient number of particles for the calculation of mean properties. For the gas phase, the 
no-slip boundary condition is imposed to the bed walls; the zero normal gradient is applied 
as the condition at the top exit for gas velocity; and the uniformly gas is issued at the inlet. 
Initially, the particles are regularly packed in a region of size 150 mm × 200 mm × 
(diameter of virtual particles) in order to eliminate the influence of different initial 
conditions on predictions. The nonlinear contact theory is performed and the tolerable 
maximum deformation of particles is set to be less than 10 % of the particle diameter in the 
cases. The calculation of the real particles are made with the Young’s modulus of 1.0 MPa, 
the Poisson ratio of 0.25, and the slip friction coefficient of 0.3. The restitution coefficient 
of particles is set to be 0.9, which leads to the parameter αc being 0.07 as referring to Fig. 
2.7. The conditions of the calculation are summarized in Table 4.1 and Table 4.2. 
 
4.2. Flow Motion 
Figure 4.2A shows the sequential snapshots of the void fraction for the case of the 
real particles, Case-A. At the initial stage, a slug is formed and is raised upward due to the 
suddenly supplied air on the bottom. The upper particle bed above the slug is lifted, and 
then the underside of the bed is cracked. While the slug is bursting, the particles of the top 
layer are splashed. The splashed particles, then, fall down onto the particle bed. As time 
elapses, there are two typical ways of bubble coalescence in bubbling fluidized beds. The 
first way is that a succeeding bubble catches up and then coalesces with a leading bubble 
on the same route as shown in Fig. 4.3a. The second way is that a succeeding bubble runs 
through a lateral movement and then catches up and coalesces with a leading bubble as 
 28
the bed. The smallest bubbles appear above a lowest height while the bubble size is grown 
up and became larger than the width of C.V.s. Therefore, the observable height of the 
smallest bubbles is increased with increasing the width of the C.V. / the particle diameter in 
this study. The smaller particle diameter is, the finer bubble resolution is. As a result, there 
appears a relatively high voidage region near the bottom, which is a locally averaged result 
obtained with the virtual particle method. The bubbles appear at the lowest observable 
height in the flat shape in the calculation of larger virtual particles instead of the row of 
bubbles in the case of the real particles (Case-A). It influences the growth of the bubble 
shape as time elapses, thus the shape of the grown bubbles lost similarity as the particle 
diameter is increased as shown in Fig. 4.2. Due to the loose structure of packed particles on 
the walls, it is found that the near-wall regions are of relative void as shown in Fig. 4.4. 
Since the gas favors to flow through the channels, the gas flow rate in the core region is 
thus reduced and the growth of bubbles is suppressed as the diameter of virtual particles is 
increased. Figure 4.4 shows that the width of channels is increased as increasing the 
diameter of particles. The channeling effect therefore becomes more significantly as the 
diameter of virtual particles is increased 
Due to lack of available experimental results, the comparison of the predictions 
using the virtual particle method with the experimental data is impossible. However, the 
quantitative comparison is made, instead, between the computational results obtained with 
the virtual particle method (Cases-B, C and D) and with the conventional method (Case-A). 
Figure 4.5 shows the time history of the pressure wave at the height 150 mm above the 
bottom of the bed. During the time period of 0.0 ~ 3.825 sec, the mean pressure drops are 
calculated to be 826.1 Pa, 837.6 Pa, 847.4 Pa, and 838.4 Pa for Cases-A, B, C and D, 
respectively. The deviation of mean pressure drop on the basis of Case-A are 1.4 %, 2.6 % 
and 1.0 % of Cases-B, C and D, respectively. The characteristic frequencies of the pressure 
wave are similar in the observation of Fig. 4.5. It indicates that the frequency of bubble 
generation and the rising speed of bubbles are basically maintained. For the quantitatively 
comparison, the power spectra of the pressure waves in Cases-A, B, C, and D of the virtual 
particle method are plotted in Fig. 4.6. The characteristic frequencies are respectively 
located at 1.82 Hz, 2.08 Hz, 2.34 Hz, and 1.82 Hz for Cases-A, B, C and D during the time 
period of 0.0 ~ 3.825 sec. The deviation of characteristic frequencies on the basis of 
Case-A are therefore 14.3 %, 28.6 % and 0.0 % of Cases-B, C and D to Case-A, 
 30
front of the jet of the spouted fluidized bed at low superficial velocities. The cavity 
stretches out and then breaks to form the spouting jet at higher superficial velocities, and it 
leads to a phenomenon that the particles are mixed by the spouting. The decreasing of 
pressure drops is induced by the channeling effect. It is found that the raceway phenomena, 
the spouting jet, and the channeling occur sequentially as increasing the superficial velocity. 
The predictions of the corresponding mean pressure drops and the pressure fluctuations are 
in satisfactory agreement with what obtained in the published experiments and simulations 
of the fluidized beds. It has been demonstrated that the result agrees qualitatively and 
quantitatively with what reported by the other researchers (Tsuji et al., 1993, Kawaguchi et 
al., 1998, and Yu and Xu, 2003). 
The proposed virtual particle method is then performed in a bubbling fluidized 
bed of Group-B particles through comparison with the conventional DEM calculation. The 
virtual particle method can predict large-scale flow patterns as does by tracking the real 
particles, but presents only the mean small-scale phenomenon. The predicted frequency of 
the pressure wave is kept almost the same as that of the case of the real particles, which 
indicates the correct behavior of large-scale bubbles. It pointed out that the virtual particle 
method is qualitatively capable of predicting large-scale patterns as does by tracking real 
particles, but needs remarkably less computational expenditure. 
 
5.2. Recommendations for Future Work 
This work develops the numerical and modeling approaches for the gas-particle 
flows with considering the phenomena of inter-particle collisions. Although the results 
obtained here are generally in satisfactory agreement with the published experimental and 
numerical data, the needs of more research efforts are summarized below to improve the 
present work. 
(1) The fluid-particle interaction plays a dominated role in fluidization. However, the 
correlations of the instantaneous drag force on individual particles for the conscientious 
consideration are not ready yet in the range of the void fraction between 0.5 and 0.8. It 
hinders the accurate simulation of the gas-particle flow with the void fraction falling in 
 32
Yokohama, Japan, May 30 ~ June 4, 2004. Paper No. PL5. 
Kafui, K.D., Thornton, C., & Adams, M. J., 2002. Discrete particle-continuum fluid 
modeling of gas-solid fluidised beds. Chem. Eng. Sci., 57, 2395-2410. 
Kawaguchi, T., Kajiyama, S., Tanaka, T., & Tsuji, Y., 2002. DEM simulation of 2-D 
fluidized bed using similarity model. Proceedings 3rd Int. Conference Discrete 
Element Method, 161-171. 
Kawaguchi, T., Tanaka, T., & Tsuji, Y., 1998. Numerical simulation of two-dimensional 
fluidized beds using the discrete element method (comparison between the two- 
and three-dimensional models). Powder Tech., 96, 129-138. 
Kazari, M., Roko, K., Kawaguchi, T., Tanaka, T., & Tsuji, Y., 1995. A study on conditions 
for similarity of particle motion in numerical simulation of dense gas-solid two 
phase flow. Proceedings 2nd Int. Conference Multiphase Flow, FB2-9 ~ FB 2-15. 
Kuwagi, K, Takeda, H, & Horio, M., 2004. The similar particle assembly (SPA) model, an 
approach to large-scale discrete element (DEM) simulation. Fluidization XI, Italy, 
AMS9. 
Omori, Y, 1987. Blast furnace phenomena and modeling. Elsevier Applied Science, 
London. 
Rhodes, M, 2001. Fluidization of particles by fluids. Educ. Reso. for Part. Techn. 
012Q-Rhodes, http://www.erpt.org/012Q/rhod-00.htm. 
Sakano, M., Yaso, T., & Nakanishi, H., 2000. Numerical simulation of two-dimensional 
fluidized bed using discrete element method with imaginary sphere model. 
Japanese. J. Multiphase Flow, 14, 66-73. 
Sommerfeld, M., 2001. Validation of a stochastic Lagrangian modeling approach for 
inter-particle collisions in homogeneous isotropic turbulence. Int. J. Multiphase 
Flow, 27, 1829-1858. 
Tsuji, Y., 2000. Activities in discrete particle simulation in Japan, Powder Tech., 113, 
 34
Table 1.1 Characteristics of particles in Geldart’s classification (Rhodes, 2001). 
Group C A B D 
Most obvious 
characteristic 
Cohesive. 
Difficult to fluidized 
Ideal for fluidization. 
Exhibits range of 
non-bubbling fluidization. 
Starts bubbling at the 
minimum fluidization 
velocity. 
Coarse solids. 
Typical solids Flour 
Cement 
Cracking catalyst Building sand Gravel 
Coffee beans 
Bed expansion Low because of channeling High Moderate Low 
De-aeration rate Initially fast, then 
exponential 
Slow, linear. Fast Fast 
Bubble property No bubbles, only channels Bubbles split and coalesce. 
Maximum bubble size is 
achieved. 
No limit to size. No limit to size. 
Solids mixing Very low High Moderate Low 
Gas backmixing Very low High Moderate Low 
Spouting No No Only in shallow Yes, even in deep beds 
 
 36
 
Table 4.1 Conditions of the 2-D simulations of the bubbling fluidized bed. 
Container 
Width (m) 0.15 
Height (m) 0.6 
Depth (m) 0.004 
Width of inlet nozzle(m) Diameter of simulated particles 
Air 
Density (kg/m3) 1.205 
Viscosity (Pa．sec) 1.8 × 10-5 
Particles 
Density (kg/m3) 2700 
Poisson ratio 0.25 
Restitution coefficient 0.9 
Parameter αc 0.07 
Fiction coefficient 0.3 
 
 38
 
 
Figure 1.1 Geldart’s particle classification. (Redraw from Geldart, D, 1973. Types of gas 
fluidization. Powder tech., 7, 285-292.) 
 
 
 
 
 40
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2.3 Distribute the total drag force to each individual particle. 
 
 
friction slider
spring dashpot
spring
dashpot
Particle l Particle m
 
Figure 2.4 Contact force model. 
 
6DF   4     1     1DF 
 42
 
 
Figure 2.7 The relation between αc and ew for nonlinear springs. (Reprinted from Tsuji, 
Y., Tanaka, T., & Ishida, T., 1992. Lagrangian numerical simulation of plug 
flow of collisionless particles in a horizontal pipe. Powder Tech., 71, 232.) 
 
 
 
Figure 2.8 Induced contact torque. 
 
tf

tf

nˆ nˆl
m
cT
cT

1.0 
0.8 
0.6 
0.4 
0.2 
0.0 
c
0.01 0.05 0.1 0.5 1.0 5.0 
we  
 44
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2.11 Distribution of total drag force in a virtual particle in a polydispersed case. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2.12 A case of regularly packed particle. 
 
1n
1n
1n
1n
1n
1nF 1nF
2n
2n
2n
2nF
DF 48 2 11x8x2  + 2x8x1 1x32+ 2x8
 46
 
Figure 3.2 Sequential snapshots of particle distribution, void fraction, mean velocity vectors and streamlines of particles at U0 = 1.6 m/s. 
 48
 
Figure 3.4 Sequential snapshots of particle distribution, void fraction, mean velocity vectors and streamlines of particles at U0 = 1.8 m/s. 
 50
 
Figure 3.6 Sequential snapshots of particle distribution, void fraction, mean velocity vectors and streamlines of particles at U0 = 2.0 m/s. 
 52
 
Figure 3.8 Sequential snapshots of particle distribution, void fraction, mean velocity vectors and streamlines of particles at U0 = 2.2 m/s. 
 54
 
Figure 3.10 Sequential snapshots of particle distribution, void fraction, mean velocity vectors and streamlines of particles at U0 = 2.6 m/s. 
 56
 
Figure 3.12 Sequential snapshots of particle distribution, void fraction, mean velocity vectors and streamlines of particles at U0 = 3.0 m/s. 
 58
 
Figure 3.14 Sequential snapshots of particle distribution, void fraction, mean velocity vectors and streamlines of particles at U0 = 4.0 m/s.
 60
 
Figure 3.16 Comparison of pressure waves of (a) the present computation and (b) 
experimental data (copied form Tsuji et al., 1993) at the height 200 mm and 
the superficial gas velocity 2.6 m/s. 
Superficial air velocity (m/s)
P
re
ss
ur
e
dr
op
(P
a)
0 1 2 3 4 5
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
4000
B
A
C
D
E
F
 
Figure 3.17 Bed pressure drop versus superficial gas velocity. 
(a
(b
 62
(A)  
(B)  
(C)  
(D)  
Figure 4.2 Sequential snapshots of void fraction in the cases of (A) 2
1
p
p
d
d
 = 1.0, (B) 2
1
p
p
d
d
 = 
2.0, (C) 2
1
p
p
d
d
 = 5.0, and (D) 2
1
p
p
d
d
 = 10.0 in the calculations. 
 64
 
 
Figure 4.5 Pressure wave at the height 150 mm in the simulations of the bubbling fluidized 
bed. 
 
 
Figure 4.6 Power spectra of the pressure waves at the height 150 mm in the simulations of 
the bubbling fluidized bed. 
上發表，最後全文投稿且經過三位審查委員審查通過之論文共 240 篇，從
此數據來看，這個國際會議之學術品質具有一定之水準。國際流力和熱傳
數值分析研討會自 2006 年舉辦第一屆以來，今(2008)年為第三屆，皆由任
教於挪威 The University of Bergen, Department of Physics and Technology之
Prof. Pawel Kosinski籌辦。本屆國際流力和熱傳數值分析研討會共接受 35
篇論文於會上發表。本人與兩位所指導碩士研究生林建宏和劉怡眉之論文
「Applicability Limit of Binary Collision Model in Dense Particle Flow」被安
排在大會第一天下午上宣讀。由於 Prof. Pawel Kosinski亦從事 particle-laden 
flow 之數值模擬研究，會上與會後和他皆有討論相關問題，亦有其他國家
學者過來討論。本篇論文主要是討論一般常用於模擬顆粒碰撞之較簡易
binary hard-sphere model 於多高密集顆粒密度之兩相流中即不再可適用之
情況，屬較基礎性研究，也因此易引起從事此領域研究人員之興趣。 
    大會於會議中安排有 17場邀請演講，或許是數學家(本次大會屬應用數
學及數值分析領域)較為率性，許多邀請演講到了所安排演講當天才將演講
題目公佈出來。在此僅將論文集上所出現之邀請演講題目列於下： 
1. 「Forty-five years of A-stability」 by T. C. Butcher (為 Numerical Method 
for Ordinary Differential Equations一書作者，本次大會亦特別慶祝這位資
深數學家之 75歲生日並表揚他對歐洲數學界之貢獻)。 
2. 「Complementarity problems: error bounds for approximate solutions」 by G. 
Alefeld (Institute fur Angewandte und Numerische Mathematik, Karlsrude 
Institute of Technology, Germany) 
3. 「Asymptotic analysis of structured population models」 by J. Banasiak*,  
A. Goswami, and S. Shindin (*School of Mathematic Sciences, University of 
Kwazulu-Natal, Durban, South Africa) 
4. 「Nonlinear electron transport in nanostructure」 by L. L. Bonilla and M. 
Carretero (G. Millan Institute of Fluid Dynamics, Nanoscience and Industrial 
Mathematics, Spain) 
5. 「Spectral approximation of time windows in waveform relaxation」 by K. 
Burrage, Z. Jackiewicz*, and B. D. Welfert (*Department of Mathematics, 
Arizona State University, U.S.A.) 
6. 「On Moisil-Theodoreseo systems in Euclidean spaces」 by R. Delanghe 
(Department of Mathematical Analysis, Ghent University, Belgium) 
7. 「Numerical simulation of compressible magnetohydrodynamic plasma flow 
in a circuit breaker」 by R. Hiptmair, P. Hugueniot, R. Jeltsch, H. Kumar, C. 
Schwab, M. Torrilhon, and V. Wheatley (Seminar for Applied Mathematics, 
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com
更改的延後時間再次落後，遲至 17:20該公司工作人員才宣稱：該班次飛機
已自雅典起飛，大夥兒才願入內候機室候機，但如此一來，只能搭 9月 22
日 16:20泰航自雅典飛曼谷之班次，也因此較原訂之返台時間多躭擱兩天才
返抵台北。 
    本次赴希臘開會，是個人第一次和希臘人打交道，對希臘人之處事，
守時態度實不敢恭維，也大大降低我對希臘這個國家的看法。 
二、與會心得 
    由於本研討會主持人 Prof. Pawel Kosinski從事 dust flows之數值模擬研
究，他亦帶了兩個學生(一位已取得博士學位，另一位即將取得博士學位)
前來參加，三人並於會上各自發表一篇論文。本人於聆聽其發表會上及會
後皆與他們進一步交換研究心得。經由參加此研討會能和遠在地球另一邊
(挪威)之同好互相認識與切磋，是本次與會之最大收獲。另從會前與 Prof. P. 
Kosinski之 e-mail通信中即得知他對我們所投論文之興趣與重視，再三來信
提醒本人務必出席發表論文。經由本次研討會之見面及意見交換，相信已
對雙方未來合作開啟契機。 
三、建議 
    國際流力和熱傳數值分析研討會(symposium)係附屬於 ICNAAM 學術
會議中之一環，以所發表論文量來計，今年是大會中最大的一環。目前大
型國際會議之趨勢是公開讓有志學者/專家於會上自行規劃一個專屬領域且
可多年連續舉辦之研討會，經徵得大會同意後即可納入大會正式議程中，
但其中之 call for papers及論文審查、論文發表議程等作業都要由這個研討
會之召集人一手包辦，但對怕麻煩(例如尋找場地，安排會議細節、經費籌
措等)之學者/專家，或許這可提供一個機會以便召集「同好」聚集一堂來互
相切磋。或許國內的大型會議(如機械工程、航太工程學術會議亦可妨照這
個方法將較小領域(如計算流體力學研討會、燃燒研討會等)納入其中，如此
可節省國內學者南北奔波出席學術會員的次數。 
    又本次學術會議之論文集，經籌備單位商得 American Institute of 
Physics (美國物理學會)同意將本次會議論文集(共 248篇，1031頁)委由 AIP
編輯裝冊出版，屬 AIP Conference Proceedings 系列，此系列亦經 Science 
Index (SCI) 收錄，因此具相當學術水準，此點作法亦值得國內之各大小型
學術會議參考採用，以增加會議上發表論文之學術知名度。 
 
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com
Applicability Limit of Binary Collision Model in Dense 
Particle Flow 
Keh-Chin Chang, Jian-Hung Lin and Yi-Mei Liu 
Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan 701, Taiwan 
. 
Abstract.  A cubic enclosure in which the particles are driven by a three-dimensional sinusoidal gravitational field is 
studied to search for the applicability limit of binary collision model in dense particle-laden flows. It is found that the 
minimum local void fraction of the particle-laden flow has to be over 0.6 to assure the particle overlapping extent being 
less than 5% with adopting the binary collision model in the simulation. In addition, the ratio of computational time step 
to the mean free time has to be less then 10   to obtain invariant prediction of the particle overlapping extent. 
Keywords: inter-particle collision, multi-phase flow, dense particle flow 
PACS: 47.55.Kf 
INTRODUCTION 
The flow laden with particles are in principle split into dilute and dense particle flow regimes due to their 
significance extent of inter-particle interactions in the physical processes. Based on the definition made by Crowe et 
al. [1], a dense particle flow is the one in which the motion of particles is dominantly controlled by collisions, in 
contrast to a dilute particle flow by the surface force, which are exerted by the carrier fluid, and the body force on 
the particles. Tsuji [2] further classified the dense particle flow into two sub-regimes of the collision-dominated 
(non-dense) flow and contact-dominated (dense) flow. To account for the inter-particle collisions in the simulation, 
the uncoupling technique of binary hard-sphere collision model, originally developed by Bird [3], is commonly 
employed. However, two prerequisites are embedded in adopting the binary collision model. One is that the particle 
number concentration must be sufficiently low so that multiple (larger then two) particle collisions are negligible. 
The other is that the mean free time of two successive inter-particle collisions must be sufficiently larger than the 
computational time step. In view of these two prerequisites, the binary collision model is clearly inapplicable to the 
simulation of highly dense particle flows such as the contact-dominated one. Instead, the multiple collision model 
such as the discrete element method (DEM) [4] has to be employed. It is of interest to find a quantitative criterion 
which can justify under what dense level of the particle-laden flow the binary collision model becomes inapplicable. 
TEST PROBLEM AND THEORETICAL ANALYSIS 
A cubic enclosure (in the length L and filled with quiescent water, see Fig. 1a) with periodic boundary conditions 
in all three directions, in which there are totally 512 mono-size hard spheres, is considered. In order to drive particle 
motion, a three-dimensional sinusoidal gravitational field of  F     ⃗ = A (cos  π  cos      e    ⃑ + cos  π  cos  π   e     ⃑ + cos  π  cos  π   e    ⃑ )     (1) 
is imposed on the enclosure. Figure 1b shows a typical gravitational field on the diagonal plane across x axis. Here 
the notation GC denotes the geometric center of the cube, i.e. (L/2, L/2, L/2), while CC denotes the two collision 
centers located at (L/4, L/4, L/4) and (3L/4, 3L/4, 3L/4) which are the interception locations of two orthogonal force 
vectors.  
 
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com
 
TABLE 1. Summary of physical quantities of three test cases 
 
 
d (mm) region u  (m/s) (u ′)     (m/s) θ f  (s  ) 
10 
whole domain 0 1.50 × 10   0.732 11.86 
GC 2.05 × 10   4.23 × 10   0.546 10.83 
CC 0 7.50 × 10   0.440 27.87 
7.5 
whole domain 0 1.39 × 10   0.887 8.852 
GC 1.96 × 10   1.35 × 10   0.619 4.761 
CC 0 5.24 × 10   0.564 22.63 
5 
whole domain 0 1.07 × 10   0.966 7.690 
GC 1.60 × 10   3.12 × 10   0.840 8.991 
CC 0 2.70 × 10   0.619 12.90 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
The physical properties of the test problem are set as L = 0.1 m, A  = 0.1 m/s2, ρf  = 1000 kg/m3, ρp = 2700 kg/m3 
and μf = 0.00178 Pa-s. Particles with three different diameters of 10, 7.5 and 5 mm are studied and their 
corresponding global void fractions θ are 0.732, 0.887, 0.969 (see Table 1), respectively. Due to the sinusoidal 
gravitational field, Eq. (1), which is imposed on the enclosure (for example, Fig 1b), the particles are not distributed 
uniformly in the enclosure but, instead, are concentrated in some regions such as the ones around the CC locations. 
Figure 3 presents two particle distribution snapshots for the cases with particle diameters of 10 and 5 mm on the 
diagonal plane across x axis. Table 1 summarizes the results computed from the three cases of d = 10, 7.5 and 5mm. 
Here u  and  (u′ )     denotes the x component of the mean and root-mean-squared fluctuating particle velocities, 
respectively; and the mean inter-particle collision frequency is defined by [5] f  =  ×(                                     )(                                  )×(                 )                                                 (5) 
The mean free time is determined by τ  =  1/f   . The region around the GC (or CC) location is set as a spherical cell 
with the radius of 0.1 L, which is equal to the diameter of the largest particle investigated in the study, and centered 
at this point. It is noted that the regions around the CC locations are associated with the largest f   value while 
smallest θ value in each case. Here the local void fraction is determined as the volumetric sum of the particles, for 
which their centers of mass fall inside the cell (i.e., the sphere with the radius of 0.1 L), divided by the volume of the 
cell. Since the smaller particles have larger exposure surfaces for drag retardation, this leads to a result as showing in 
Table 1: the smaller the particle is, the smaller the u  at the GC location is. As revealed from Fig. 3, the particle 
number distribution is highly non-uniform in the case with d = 5 mm (Fig. 3b) as compared to the case with d = 10 
mm (Fig. 3a).  This leads to a result as showing in Table 1: the f   value of whole domain is less than those at the GC 
and CC locations for the case with d = 5 mm. In contrast, the f  value of whole domain is between the two f   values 
at the GC and CC locations for the case with d = 10 mm.  
 
 
Figure 4. Relations of the particle overlapping 
extent and computational expenditure versus the 
computational time step 
Figure 3. Snapshots of particle distributions for the 
cases with (a) d = 10 mm and (b) d = 5 mm on the 
diagonal plane across x axis  
 
 
 
CC 
     
Pa
rt
ic
le
 o
ve
rl
ap
pi
ng
 e
xt
en
t (
%
) 
R
atio of com
putation expenditure 
GC 
(a) (b) 
√2L 
L L 0 0 0 
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com
