2RELATED RESEARCHES
Holland and Hobson (1999) found from a survey that there is a lack of consistency
among construction firms concerning categorization of costs as direct costs and indirect
costs, i.e. project and home-office overheads. For example, the construction manager is
equally likely categorized as project overhead or home-office overhead, whereas field
engineers may be categorized as direct cost as well as project overhead. However, the
inconsistency of different firms does not affect the models in the present study, since
they are oriented towards one firm, as long as it has its own way of categorization and
categorizes costs consistently for different projects. In any case, to avoid confusion, the
firm in provision of data for model development has to be specific as to what constitutes
project overhead costs to it.
Neural networks have found applications in various other areas of construction, e.g.
technology evaluation (Chao and Skibniewski 1995), litigation outcome prediction
(Arditi et al 1998), labor productivity modeling (Sonmez and Rowings 1998), total
development costs prediction (Emsley et al 2002). As an introduction to neural
networks can be found in many publications, only the rationale of developing a
neural-network-based model and suggestions for model development are reviewed
below. Neural networks are suitable for solving complex cognitive problems because
they are adaptive to data presented to them owing to their structure, i.e. a collection of
highly interconnected nodes with a nonlinear transfer function organized in layers,
which enable the performance of complex multi-attribute nonlinear mappings (Pao
1989). This property is important for construction estimates, as the relationships
between inputs and outputs are often very complex with unknown combined effects of
inputs on outputs that could be difficult to map by using a regression model with
prefixed terms.
The mapping ability or knowledge of a neural network is acquired through training
(adjusting the connection weights) with example input-output patterns and stored in its
structure in a distributive manner. The nature of cost estimation suggests application of
a feed-forward multi-layer network that is trained using a supervised learning technique
such as the back-propagation (BP) algorithm. A trained neural network is tested with
additional data new to the network using error measures defined according to evaluation
requirements. As Chao and Skibniewski (1994) and Chao (2001) show, the performance
of a neural network can be improved by proper representation and arrangement of
training data (subject to data availability) and proper selection of network parameters.
Although neural networks are noted for being able to achieve a robust solution in the
face of imprecise data, noise or randomness commonly existent in construction
estimates needs to be taken into account so that situations of over- or under-fitting in
training are avoided (Adeli and Wu 1998). A neural network can attain better or worse
prediction depending on how it is developed, i.e. a better-performing one can be crafted,
which makes it different from the regression method.
FACTORS INFLUENCING PROJECT OVERHEAD
Like direct costs, the project overhead costs are entirely project-oriented and
consumed on site. The project overhead rate presumably varies according to some
project conditions and project features as reviewed broadly below. Generic project
factors identified by previous researches to have an effect on the bid markup may also
4Since detailed estimates were not available for corrections, the data for 27 projects was
discarded and a usable collection of 173 projects was complied at last.
Numbered from one to 173 in chronological order, the sample projects range
between 60 millions and 30 billions NT$ in bid amount (note: 1NT$ 0.03 US$) and
between 3 months and 106 months in duration. The following are classified in this study
as project overhead costs: salaries for administration and supervision, office and shops,
utilities and services, insurance and bonds, transport, safety, surveys and tests,
environmental protection, and public relation. The calculated project overhead rates
range between 0.0171 and 0.2912.
All the projects were located domestically and of the construction-only contract.
As the firm has long since adopted a policy of subcontracting almost entire work, there
is little difference in proportion of subcontracting among the projects. Moreover, the
data available gives very limited project information that does not allow a separate
indicator for quality level to be set up. Therefore, only the following factors were
considered as inputs in modeling: total direct cost, total duration, mean direct cost per
month, classification of work, and classification of location. First, the coefficients of
correlation among the quantifiable factors and project overhead rate for the projects as
shown in Table 1 were examined. The strong and positive correlations among direct cost,
duration, and mean direct cost and between duration and overhead rate appear
reasonable. The weak correlation of project overhead rate with either direct cost or
direct cost per month may be explained by the lessening of effects of economies of scale
by large projects’more demanding quality and other factors at the same time, e.g. the
overhead rates of the largest ten projects with a concentration of metros and tunnels
average 0.0964 versus the overall mean of 0.0793.
Table 1. Coefficients of correlation among quantifiable factors and project overhead rate
for sample projects
(1)
Total direct
cost
(2)
Total
duration
(3)
Mean direct
cost per month
(4)
Project
overhead rate
(5)
Total direct
cost 1
Total
duration 0.4697 1
Mean direct
cost per month 0.9289 0.2838 1
Project
overhead rate 0.1059 0.3613 -0.0537 1
A classification scheme is required for the two categorical attributes, type of work
and location. With respect to type of work, a project is classified according to limited
project description available into one of eight groups (Table 2). With respect to location,
a project is placed into one of three classifications based on its address in Taiwan (Table
3). Tables 2 and 3 also show the statistics of each group ranked in order of increasing
mean project overhead rate. Standard deviations within the groups are quite large and
statistical tests of the difference between the mean overhead rates of any two adjoining
groups conclude that the null (equality) hypotheses all cannot be rejected except for
work type groups #5 and #6, suggesting that different groupings may be used.
6


n
i
ii appliedoutputtedn
RMSE
1
2)(
1
(1)



n
i
ii appliedoutputtedn
MAE
1
1
(2)



n
i i
ii
n applied
appliedoutputted
MAPE
1
1 (3)
where n = number of cases used in the evaluation; outputtedi = overhead rate produced
for case i by the model; appliedi = overhead rate actually applied to case i according to
the firm’s estimates.
RMSE inherits the efficacy of mean squared error (MSE), which is used by most
algorithms including regression to represent overall system error to be minimized in
modeling. Furthermore, RMSE refers directly to the deviation between model output
and target output like MAE. It is therefore a consistent and convenient performance
indicator for the present single output problem. In the following, RMSE is used as the
main evaluator to measure model accuracy in monitoring performance and comparing
different models, while MAE and MAPE are used as secondary measures.
Cluster center and regression
Two non-adaptive methods, cluster center and regression, were used to model
overhead rates for a comparison with neural networks later. Using the cluster center
method, the projects are classified according to combinations of work type and location
into clusters, with the maximum number of clusters at 8x3=24. The mean overhead rates
for each cluster are calculated as the modeled rates. Using the regression method, two
multiple regression equations involving all four inputs were built under the original
classification scheme: one with the decimal representation and a total of four
independent variables and the other with the binary representation and a total of 11
independent variables. The built equations are then used to produce overhead rates for
cases as modeled rates.
For each model above, the RMSE of modeling representing closeness of fit are
calculated using (1). The results are shown in Table 4. Compared with the large standard
deviation (0.0428) of overhead rates, the obtained RMSE of modeling represent a
significant improvement (error reduction by more than 1% of direct cost) as a result of
explaining factors being introduced, meaning that the inputs are relevant for modeling.
The cluster center method outperforms the regression method and the regression model
with binary representation outperforms the regression model with decimal
representation. This indicates that linear regression is unsuitable for the problem as it
fails to improve performance by picking up the extra factors of project size and duration
left out by the cluster center method.
Neural networks
Neural networks are adaptive: fitting of a network to the training data can go on
limitlessly with an ever-decreasing error. However, we need to avoid over-training a
network to the point that it recognizes only the training patterns but performs poorly in
testing with new ones, as well as under-training the network resulting in coarse learning.
Therefore, a portion of the readied data (the later 20% or 35 cases) is set aside as the
verification set for evaluation of training, i.e. only the first 80% or 138 cases makes up
8Table 4. RMSE of models
Models
(1)
Training with
138 cases
(2)
Verification
with 35 cases
(3)
Modeling with
138+35=173 cases
(4)
Cluster center method - - 0.0315
Regression with dec. rep. - - 0.0340
Regression with binary rep. - - 0.0317
NN with dec. rep. 0.0228 0.0244 0.0232
NN with bin. rep. 0.0218 0.0303 0.0238
Comparison across methods
Comparing the results of all the above five models in Table 4, a sequence of
accuracy from the best to the worst can be discerned: NN with decimal representation,
NN with binary representation, cluster center method, regression with binary
representation, and regression with decimal representation. The NNs all achieve both
better closeness of fit and better test accuracy than their regression counterparts. The
fact that the NNs are more accurate than the cluster center method indicates that the
NNs are able to pick up the quantitative factors left out by the cluster center method.
DISCUSSION
An empirical model’s accuracy is inevitably affected by the level of noise in the
data used for developing the model, so its performance must be judged considering this
influence. For the present study, noises in the overhead rates for the sample projects
come from over- or under-estimates of direct cost (inaccuracies in the denominators)
and over- or under-estimates of overhead cost (inaccuracies in the numerators), both
causing the rates to deviate from what they should be. Since a project’s cost estimate
can achieve ±3 percent accuracy with the total design available (Halpin 1985) and the
direct cost constitutes the bulk of it, the best result of about 2 percent error of direct cost
achieved by the two 4:7:1 neural networks is considered acceptable for the problem,
although there is room for improvement.
The 4:7:1 neural network developed was used in a sensitivity analysis to see the
effect of changes in project duration and project size on overhead rate estimates. Figure
1 shows the model output for a building located in a metropolitan area with direct cost
at 474 M$, 636 M$, or 916M$, which are the 30, 50, and 70 percentiles for the
subgroup, over a duration of 16 to 30 months. The predicted overhead rates all increase
as the duration increases while at the same duration a larger size project will have a
lower rate. Although the estimates vary only marginally for the given conditions, the
neural network achieves results that appear consistent with theory, another indication of
the model’s reliability.
For the current application the generalization ability of the neural networks can be
attributed to the way the problem is structured, i.e. as one of estimating the overhead
rate instead of the overhead cost in dollars. This form of presenting the overhead level
exhibits clearly the non-linear relationships between the inputs and the output to suit the
mapping strength of neural networks, whereas the largely linear relationship between
the dollar amount of overhead cost and the project size would not suit neural networks
as well. Moreover, the neural networks with decimal and well-ordered representation of
categorical inputs capture the non-linearity in the data better than binary representation.
10
more dependable than estimate data because of errors in assigning and reporting costs.
Checking the data’s consistency is important whichever is used. As the present study
left out some potentially significant factors affecting model accuracy, such as level of
required project quality and type of contract, they can be considered for inclusion as
well as more detailed classification schemes for work type and location.
REFERENCES
Adeli, H., and Wu, M. (1998) “Regularization neural network for construction cost
estimation.” Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, ASCE, 124(1),
18-24.
Arditi, D., Oksay, F. E., and Tokdemir, O. B. (1998) “Predicting the outcome of
construction litigation using neural networks.” Computer-Aided Civil and
Infrastructure Engineering, 13, 75-81.
Chao, L.-C. and Skibniewski, M. J. (1994) "Estimating construction productivity:
neural-network-based approach." Journal of Computing in Civil Engineering, ASCE,
8(2), 234-251.
Chao, L.-C. and Skibniewski, M. J. (1995) "Neural network method of estimating
construction technology acceptability." Journal of Construction Engineering and
Management, ASCE, 121(1), 130-142.
Chao, L.C. (2001)“Assessing earth-moving operation capacity by neural network-based
simulation with physical factors.” Computer-Aided Civil and Infrastructure
Engineering, 16, 287-294.
Diamant, L. (1988) Construction Estimating for General Contractors, Wiley, New York.
Emsley, M.W., Lowe, D.J., Duff, A.R., Harding, A., and Hickson, A. (2002). “Data
modeling and the application of a neural network approach to the prediction of total
construction costs”, Construction Management and Economics, 20, 465-472.
Halpin, D.W. (1985) Financial and Cost Concepts for Construction Management, John
Wiley & Sons, New York.
Holland, N.L. and Hobson Jr., D. (1999)“Indirect cost categorization and allocation by
construction contractors.” Journal of Architectural Engineering, ASCE, 5(2), 49-56.
McCaffer, R. and Baldwin, A.N. (1984) Estimating and Tendering for Civil Engineering
Works, Granada, London.
Pao, Y.-H. (1989) Adaptive Pattern Recognition and Neural Networks, Addison-Wesley
Publishing Co., Inc., Raeding, Mass.
Sonmez, R. and Rowings, J.E. (1998) “Construction labor productivity modeling with
neural networks.” Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, ASCE, 
124(6), 498-504.
劉蕙菁 (2006) “估計專案間接成本對直接成本比例之類神經網路模式.”碩士論文,
國立高雄第一科技大學營建工程系.
洪嘉陽 (2007) “應用模糊類神經網路預估專案間接費用比例之研究.”碩士論文,
國立高雄第一科技大學營建工程系.
計畫成果自評
本研究的成果綜合評估可歸為以下幾點:
(1) 研究內容與原計畫之比較
出席國際學術會議心得報告
計畫編號 NSC95-2221-E-327-043
計畫名稱 估計專案間接成本對直接成本比例之計算模式
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
晁立中 國立高雄第一科技大學營建工程系副教授
會議時間地點 2007 年 7/16-7/18 英國 University of Reading
會議名稱 Construction Management and Economics 25th Anniversary Conference
發表論文題目 Bidding model for design/build projects
一、參加會議經過
2007 年 7/16-7/18 在英國 University of Reading 舉行的國際知名期刊 Construction
Management and Economics 發行 25週年(CME25)研討會為國際營建管理學界盛事．大會
在期刊主編 Prof Will Hughes安排下有四場 Keynote Speeches，由代表歐亞非澳四洲的學者
演講，主題分別為：innovation, process modeling, industry development, analytical methods．
都為一時之選．本人得到國科會研究計畫及本校推動國際交流之獎助，前往參加並發表論
文一篇．發表之論文題目為 Bidding model for design/build projects，並獲邀為參與 plenary
discussion session成員之一，對有關台灣採購及投標現況之詢問，予以妥善之回應．兹略
述心得如下．
二、與會心得
1. CME25 有 180餘人來至全世界 42國的代表參加與發表，確實為營管學界全球性的盛
會．論文題目涵蓋營建管理與營建經濟當今每一重要研究方向：學界與業界之互動，
業主界面，專案管理，公司管理，及產業發展等．研討會期間聆聽多場發表，尤其對
於各國與營建業有關的課題之研究，特別注意，有參考及與本地比較之效用．
2. 大會並安排一些 social events，有助代表們間之互動與瞭解，讓本人對於各國尤其是英
國大學教育近年來之演變與發展，有一直接觀察與提問之機會，也頗為印象深刻．英
國近年來經濟相當景氣，雖受恐怖份子的威脅，但開放程度依然名列世界前茅．振興
有為，各方面實在值得學習．
Bidding model for D/B projects
addition, because the design is not fully completed at the time of bidding, there are
more uncertainties in the cost estimate, while an enlarged scope of contract entails
more interfaces and design- and site-related problems to be self-handled, meaning a
higher risk for the contractor. These are the reasons why bid price decision for a D/B
project is more challenging than for a construction-only project and it is fair to say
that considerations for the latter are a subset of those for the former.
The focus of the research reported below is on how much mark-up a contractor should
apply in determination of the bid price for a D/B project when the firm has made a
cost estimate based on its produced outline design deemed most appropriate for the
project. It is difficult to achieve an optimum bid price decision under the complexities
mentioned above by using experience and intuition alone. It would be helpful to apply
quantitative analysis methods to dealing with the problem. Thus, the purpose of the
research is to develop an objective-function-based model for determining the optimum
mark-up for a D/B project. The results of a pilot study are presented in this paper.
BACKGROUND STUDY
Because of its importance in construction, the bidding problem has long attracted
much research interest and many prescriptive bidding models can be found in the
literature. However, few of them are oriented particularly towards the circumstances
of D/B projects. For example, based on awarding a contract to the lowest bid, the
probability model in Carr (1982) uses statistics of historical bid data for estimating the
probability of winning for a given mark-up. The optimum mark-up is determined as
the one with the maximum expected profit, where the expected profit for a mark-up is
defined as the product of the probability of winning multiplied by the mark-up. Farid
and Boyer (1985) proposed a present value model based on a contractor’s cash flows
analysis for a project and required rate of return to determine the minimum acceptable
mark-up for bid price decision. These early models can be termed as academic since
they do not include the various subjective and qualitative factors that contractors
consider in making the bid decision.
Researches in recent years have turned towards developing models using multiple
factors as inputs to reflect the many facets of the mark-up problem. For example,
Dozzi et al (1996) used 21 factors identified by Ahmad and Minkarah (1988) and
grouped under environment, company, and project as the criteria in a multi-attribute
utility model. The utility of a project is obtained from the assessments of the factors
that are translated by utility functions into utility measurements and the recommended
mark-up is derived from the inverse relation between project utility and required
mark-up. The neural network model by Moselhi et al (1993) and the fuzzy neural
network model by Liu and Ling (2005) are trained with collected data representing a
number of bidding situations and the corresponding mark-ups to be applied. Chua and
Li (2000) listed 51 factors and evaluated their effects based on a survey, based on
which Chua et al (2001) proposed a case-based reasoning model using the identified
factors as case attributes. Though these multi-factor models offer various methods for
obtaining an optimum mark-up, they do not particularly address D/B projects either.
Mochtar and Arditi (2001) investigated the role of marketing information in bid price
decision and proposed pricing strategies using market-based approaches centred on
marketing intelligence systems. However, even if there is enough information on
market prices collected through efficient marketing systems, making the bid price
decision still requires considering the uniqueness and complexities of an individual
Bidding model for D/B projects
Table 1: Self-assessment on planning and land use
Alternatives Firm Typical competitor A*
Firm 1 2
Typical competitor A* 1/2 1
Principal eigenvector 0.67 0.33
Table 2: Self-assessment on quality of design and construction
Alternatives Firm Typical competitor A*
Firm 1 1/2
Typical competitor A* 2 1
Principal eigenvector 0.33 0.67
Table 3: Self-assessment on maintainability and serviceability
Alternatives Firm Typical competitor A*
Firm 1 3
Typical competitor A* 1/3 1
Principal eigenvector 0.75 0.25
Table 4: Self-assessment on company’s track records
Alternatives Firm Typical competitor A*
Firm 1 1/5
Typical competitor A* 5 1
Principal eigenvector 0.2 0.8
Aggregation of the comparison results in eigenvectors and the weight vector for the
owner’s evaluation criteria is accomplished by means of matrix multiplication as
shown below, to obtain a self-assessment of the firm’s service.




















497.0
503.0
10.0
20.0
40.0
30.0
80.025.067.033.0
20.075.033.067.0
(2)
If a typical competitor’s technical score is normalized as unity, then the firm’s
self-assessment of service for the D/B project can be reduced to v = 0.503/0.497 =
1.012, slightly better than the norm.
The competition faced for the project can be assessed by referring to the ratios of
winning bid to estimated cost for recent similar projects in the same market. The
lower the ratios are, the keener the likely competition would be, and the lower the
chance of winning for a bid price will be. Together with the obtained self-assessment
of the technical proposal and statistics of winning bids, the way of the owner’s tender
evaluation and the weight given to the price proposal will influence the assessment of
the chance of winning for a given bid. A case of tender evaluation is given later to
illustrate the quantification of the relation between Pw and r.
In (1), c, the firm’s estimated project cost, is produced by aggregating the most likely
cost estimates for all items of work, whereas c , the mean project cost, is obtained
from the probability distribution for project cost using a probabilistic cost estimating
technique as an extension of the traditional deterministic estimation. Because of the
existence of many uncertainties in a D/B project relating to productivity, resource
