 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用
價值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是
否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評
估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
▓  達成目標 
□  未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：▓已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 ▓申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
 
 
 
2 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
驗證影像之強化研究以應用於影像導引放射線治療 
A Study of Portal Image Enhancement for Image Guided Radiation Therapy 
計畫編號: NSC100 – 2221 - E- 214 - 064  
執行期限: 100年 8月 1日至 101年 7月 31日 
主持人: 郭忠民教授   義守大學資工系 
                                共同主持人: 丁慧枝教授   義守大學醫學影像暨放射科學系 
E-Mail: {kuocm,hujydi}@isu.edu.tw 
                  
 
 
ABSTRACT 
Portal images are acquired by electronic portal image devices (EPID) with megavoltage (MV) x-ray, 
and they are inherently poor in terms of contrast due to the Compton Effect. Comparing with diagnostic 
x-ray images, portal images are usually lacking in detailed information for human vision. It is therefore 
very desirable to develop an effective enhancement method. In this paper, a new approach that combines 
global and local enhancement techniques is proposed. Portal images have usually high dynamic range 
(HDR) up to 16 bits. They can therefore record details beyond the perception of human vision. 
  This implies a potential for portal image enhancement. First, in order to fully utilize the abundant 
information, the contrast is stretched by a traditional global enhancement technique. Then, a histogram-
based segmentation is proposed to partition the skeleton in the image. Finally, region-based Retinex with 
pseudodata filling is developed to emphasize bony structures locally. The results of this study 
demonstrate that the proposed method can sketch more details of bony structures in portal images, which 
is beneficial for radiation treatment verification.  
 
Keywords:  electronic portal image; HDR; region-based enhancement; pseudo-data filling  
摘要 
驗證影像是以治療級百萬伏特級 X 光所照射得到的，但因受到康普頓效應影響，所產生的
驗證影像對比極低。相較於診斷 X 光影像，驗證影像無法提供人類視覺足夠資訊。因此，必須
發展有效的影像強化技術解決此問題。驗證影像具有解析度為 16 位元的高動態範圍，因此可以
記錄遠超人類視覺極限的詳盡細節資料，這也預示著影像強化的潛力。在此論文中我們提出了新
的方法，首先利用全域的技術將驗證影像的對比盡量延伸，之後提出以直方圖為基礎的影像分割
技術將各組織分哩，之後利用研究所提出的虛擬資料填充技術結合 Retinex 理論使骨骼結構更為
清晰。 
研究的結果顯示，我們所提出的方法可以與傳統的影像強化技術相比，可使骨骼結構的呈現
更為清晰，對於影像導引放射線治療有明顯的助益。 
關鍵字: 電子驗證，高動態範圍，局部強化，影像導引放射線治療  
I. MOTIVATION 
Radiation therapy is widely applied in medical treatment by the using of ionization radiation for 
benign and/or mostly malignant tumors. Modern electronic portal image device (EPID) uses an 
amorphous silicon (a-Si) flat panel detector to capture digital images for aligning the patient’s position 
and verifying setup parameters. 
However, electronic portal images (EPIs) acquired by EPID with megavoltage x-ray are inherently 
 4 
 
 
 Input Image 
  
Phase 1: Global processing 
Global contrast 
enhancement 
  
 
Histogram-based 
region 
segmentation 
  
Phase 2: Local processing 
Pseudo-data 
filling 
  
 
Region-based 
Retinex 
enhancement 
  
 Output Image 
Figure 1. Flow chart of proposed method 
II. PROPOSED METHOD 
The proposed method contains two phases with four sequential steps, as shown in Fig. 1. The details 
of each step will be described in the following subsections. 
A. Phase one: Global contrast enhancement 
Portal image is usually with high dynamic range (HDR) up to 16 bits, therefore it could record details 
beyond the perception of human vision. Nevertheless, this property enables the potential for portal 
image enhancement. Fig. 4 (A) shows that the contrast of the original portal image is extremely poor. 
Therefore, the original portal image is not only insufficient for human vision but also difficult in further 
processing. Thus, the first phase for portal image processing is to stretch the global contrast as wide as 
possible. Histogram equalization (HE) is a simple and effective algorithm to enhance contrast by 
redistributing histogram uniformly across entire dynamic range. Besides, in Fig. 4 (C), the distribution 
of original histogram is very narrow and concentrate to certain range, thus HE could also increase these 
differences that are advantageous for further analysis in phase two.  
B. Phase two: Local Contrast Enhancement 
According to our observation, we can summarize several important characteristics in portal images. 
Firstly, portal images are all formed by EPID with megavoltage (MV) x-ray. They are inherently poor in 
terms of contrast due to the Compton Effect no matter how the position of irradiation. Secondly, we can 
find that same structure in different portal images has a very similar grey level distribution because they 
are organized by same ingredients especially after contrast stretching. Therefore, to segment each 
structure in portal image according to histogram distribution is possible. After global enhancement, local 
enhancement can generally be further applied to emphasize more details. However, if the enhancement 
is aimed at the region of interest, we may need to segment the portal image into regions. In the following 
sections, we proposed a novel algorithm that boosts the effect of local enhancement by histogram-based 
region segmentation and pseudo-data filling. 
B.1  Histogram-based region segmentation 
 
 6 
 
 
Histogram-based 
segmentation 
 
  
 
 
 
 
SSR Output 
Image  
 
 
  
Low-pass filter 
Figure 3. Filling pseudo-data outside region 4 in Fig. 2 
    
(A) (B) (C) (D) 
Figure 4. Enhancement result of HE,(A),(C)Original image 
and histogram, (B),(D) Enhanced image and histogram 
 
for region-4 of Fig. 2 is shown in Fig. 3. According to Retinex theory, the enhancement results will be 
influenced by surrounding pixels. Hence, pseudo-data filled for subsequent Retinex processing should 
maintain correlation with original image. After phase one, EPI is processed by low-pass filter to produce 
a smoothed image and the degree of smoothness could control the correlation with major characteristics 
of original image. Then the green slashed area of smoothed EPI is filled as pseudo-data around region-4 
to increase differences along boundaries and the uncertainties of these boundaries will decrease after 
Retinex calculation. But the effects of pseudodata filling will be null if the pseudo-data values are too 
close to the original ones. After comparing results of 12 different filter sizes from 5, 11, 21 to 101, the 
result of pseudo-data filling is modest if the mask size is set to 101. 
The procedures of pseudo-data filling are described as follows: 
(1) The original image I(x,y) is processed by low-pass filter whose mask size is N+1 and produce a 
blur image I'(x.,y). 



2
N
2
N
2
N
2
N
2
),(
)1(
1
),(' jiI
N
yxI ，i = 0,1,....x，j = 0,1,....y 
 
(5) 
(2)  The original image gray level from 0 to 65535 is partitioned into n interval as G1[0,K], 
G2[K+1,L], G3[L+1,M]........Gn[N+1,65535] , where n represents numbers of segmented regions. 
For region i, who the grey level fall in Gi, pseudo-data are assigned for each region according to 
the equation described below: 
Image after  
pahse one 
 8 
 
 
 
   
(A) Mask size 11 (B) Mask size 51 (C) Mask size 101 
Figure 5. Results of different  low-pass filter settings 
 
   
(A) 21 (B) 101 (C)201 
Figure 6.  Effects of space constant on SSR for Figure 4 (d) region-4 
AP view. In this case, EPI is segmented by 5 regions according to its complexity of the anatomy and 
histogram distribution. 
As mentioned before, since EPIs are transmission images that share common characteristics due to 
very similar radiation source and human anatomic structures, thus the suggestions can be applied to 
other Head and Neck AP view EPIs directly. 
B.2 Experimental results of pseudo-data filling 
According to our observation of 12 different mask sizes from 5, 11, 21 to 101, and Fig. 5 shows three 
examples of mask size: 11, 51 and 101. The higher of contrast between bone and other structures will 
obtain when the mask size is getting bigger. Hence, mask size for pseudo-data filling is set to 101. 
B.3 Experimental results of region-based Retinex 
After pseudo-data was filled to neighboring of each region, EPIs were processed by SSR with optimized 
space constant. These space constants for every region are derived from testing 10 space constants from 
21 to 201. Optimized Gaussian space constants are also summarized at Table I. According to Retinex 
theory, the coverage area of space constant is inverse proportional to local detail enhancement and 
proportional to tonal rendition. In Fig. 9, we also demonstrate the results of Retinex with different 
Gaussian space constants for Fig. 2 region-4. Retinex with the smallest space constant will produce 
strongest local enhancement and noise amplification in Fig. 6 (A). In Fig. 6 (B), space constant is set by 
101 with best bony enhancement without obvious side effects. In Fig. 6 (C), the space constant is too 
large and artifacts are also appearing (red circle). 
B.3 Experimental results of region-based Retinex with pseudo-data filling 
Finally, each processed region is extracted according to its original location and synthesized. The major 
function of pseudo-data filling is to reduce uncertainties between region boundaries. Besides, region 
boundaries are segmented according to bony structure and adjacent tissues. Hence, reduced uncertainties 
mean that the edge of bony structure and 
 10 
 
 
[3] I. Crooks and B.G. Fallone, “Contrast enhancement of portal images by selective histogram 
equalization,” Med. Phsy., Vol.20, No.1, pp. 199- 204, Jan/Feb 1993. 
[4] Tizhoosh, H.R., Michaelis, B. “Image enhancement based on fuzzy  aggregation techniques.” 
Proceedings of 16th IEEE IMTC'99, Venice, Italy, Vol. 3, pp. 1813-1817, 1999. 
[5] S.M. Pizer, E.P. Amburn, J.D. Austin, R. Cromartie, A. Geselowitz, T. Greer, B.T.H. Romeny, J.B. 
Zimmerman and K. Zuiderveld, “Adaptive histogram equalization and its variations,” Computer 
Vision, Graphics, and Image Processing, Vol.39, No.3, pp.355-368, Sept. 1987. 
[6] J. Rosenman, C. A. Roe, R. Cromartie, K. E. Muller, and S. M. Pizer, “Portal film enhancement: 
technique and clinical utility.” Int. J. Radiat. Oncol. Biol. Physics, Vol. 25, No.2, pp. 333-338, 1993. 
[7] E. Land, “An alternative technique for the computation of the designator in the retinex theory of 
color vision.” Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci., Vol. 83, No.10, pp. 3078–3080, 1986.  
[8] R. C. Gonzalez and R. E.Woods, “Digital image processing 2nd edition (DIP/2e).” New 
York:Addison-Wesley, pp. 91-101, 2002. 
 
 2
一、 參加會議經過 
2012 年消費電子、通信與網路國際學術會議是由 IEEE Consumer Electronics Society、咸寧學院、
亞東技術學院及崑山大學等單位所聯合主辦，今年的會議地點是中國湖北省宜昌華美達酒店舉行，會
議為期三天 (Apr. 21-23, 2012)。此研討會的論文將可以在 EI 國際重要的工程論文資料庫系統中索引
到。會議的目的在提供ㄧ個專業交流，學習研討的平台。會議中涵蓋的領域相當廣泛，包括:信號及影
像處理、多媒體系統、知識發掘及資料探勘、感應網路、錯誤偵測技術、參數識別、軟體工程、模糊
系統模型及設計、控制系統及應用，等整合所有關於電機資訊學門專業領域的大型研討會。 
會議中共收到了從世界各地投稿約 2000 篇論文，最後收錄至會議 EI 的文章近 1000 篇論文，以
及 7 場 Keynote speech，其中以下幾場讓我印象最深刻，由 2009-2010 IEEE Foundation Director and 
Treasurer, USA 的 Joseph V. Lillie 教授主講的 “IEEE, Networking and You，Vice President and CTO for 
the Broadband Communications Group, USA 的 Dr. Richard Prodan 所報告的 “Connecting everything®: 
Empowering the Broadband Revolution”，以及”Rambus Inc., USA 的 Dr. T. Gary Yip 教授所主講的 
“From Mobile to Wearable Electronics”。 
會議行程如下： 
04 月 21 日 (第一天): 
第一天為大會的報到發放會議資料、紀念品以及繳交論文報告投影片的時間。當天一早從宜昌市
區搭乘交通工具抵達宜昌華美達酒店，許多遠從印度、中東、韓國、新加坡、馬來西亞…等國家的學
者，都陸續在這一天報到，並在會議廳閒聊茶敘。 
04 月 22 日 (第二天): 
第二天上午大會安排三場Keynote speech，我聆聽了2009-2010 IEEE Foundation Director and 
Treasurer, USA的Joseph V. Lillie教授主講的 “IEEE, Networking and You，針對IEEE貢獻能做了精闢的演
講。下午則第二場是由Vice President and CTO for the Broadband Communications Group, USA的Dr. 
Richard Prodan所報告的 “Connecting everything®: Empowering the Broadband Revolution”，介紹了通信
發展及限制，從透過網路線到目前可利用手持設備連線，而造成的網路革命，這場演說也讓我吸收了
不同領域的知識。而第三場是由Rambus Inc., USA的Dr. T. Gary Yip所主講的 “From Mobile to Wearable 
Electronics及未來發展提出見解，從手機開始許多消費電子產品已與人類生活習習相關，未來如何延生
出更多可穿戴式電子產品是相當重要的課題，聆聽不同領域教授所提出的見解，讓我充份學習多方面
知識。 
04 月 23 日 (第三天): 
第三天上午大會安排兩場Oral Session，下午則安排Poster Session及一場Oral Session，讓來自各地
的學者發表的論文，並讓大家互相討論。我們的論文被安排在下午Poster Session，上午時間就前往Oral 
Session 2中聆聽所發表的論文，與我所研究的領域較為接近，其中包含有視訊技術、影像檢索、影像
重建等等有關的議題。在這些所發表的論文中我個人偏好影像檢索，因為這些技術是目前我在研究上
比較需要的，並利用茶敘時間與發表者互相討論，也學習到在影像處理上的新方法。下午Poster 
Session，我們的所發表的論文【Event Detection for Broadcast Tennis Videos Based on Trajectory 
Analysis】，重點在網球視訊事件偵測及軌跡分析，從中可以獲取重要訊息，如場線的位置、球員的位
置、球員的軌跡、球員的速度，所偵測的這些資訊，未來能幫助我們做更進高階的網球視訊處理，在
這個階段中，許多學者對於我們的研究非常感到興趣，也花了一些時間討論，並順利完成論文的發表。 
 
會後於會議廳外留影 將海報張貼於會議廳內留影 
  
方敏媛論文發表實況 參訪其他作者論文 
  
與武漢大學博士生交流 與武漢大學博士生交流 
 
一、與會心得 
這次到中國湖北宜昌參加 CECNet2012，除了發表論文外，也聽取了來自各地的專家、學者報告，
並利用茶敘時間與學者們探討相關問題及進行學術交流，另外也利用會後時間參觀三峽大壩及宜昌市
區，體驗到了當地人的生活，此次參加研討會不僅開擴視野，也讓我學習到很多東西，不論是學術或
是與人交流，這些東西都是書本上學不到的，真的是得到了許多收獲。 
二、考察參觀活動（無此項活動者省略） 
這次到中國湖北宜昌參加 CECNet2012，除了發表論文外，也利用茶敘時間與學者們探討相關問題及
進行學術交流，會議第四天主辦單位有辦理三峽一日的參訪行程，因行程安排當天必需搭機返回台灣，因
此無法參加。雖然沒辦法參加主辦單位的行程，不過，在會後曾利用休息時間參觀宜昌市區，體驗到了當
地人的生活，也看到了這個城市在短時間內發展迅速，還算有些彌補。 
三、建議 
我認為可以多補助國內博士生出國參加國際型會議，除了能交換彼此的研究心得外，也能增加博
士生視野與國際觀，不僅能提升博士生的歷練，也能增加台灣在國際上的能見度。 
 4
Event Detection for Broadcast Tennis Videos Based 
on Trajectory Analysis 
Chi-Kao Chang, Min-Yuan Fang, Chung-Ming Kuo*, Nai-Chung Yang 
Department of Information Engineering 
I-Shou University 
No. 1, Sec. 1, Syuecheng Rd., Dashu Township, Kaohsiung 840, Taiwan 
*Corresponding author: kuocm@isu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract—This paper presents an effective and efficient semantic 
event detection method for broadcast tennis videos. We proposed 
an effective player tracking and trajectory modification 
technique, and then event detection based on trajectory analysis 
is developed accordingly. In our work, the playfield and court 
line are extracted from a court view. Then, we detect player 
objects and utilize adaptive Kalman filter to improve the 
tracking accuracy. In event detection phase, we refine the 
unreasonable trajectory to avoid the noise interference especially 
in upper court, and eliminate the minor clip which can’t be a 
meaningful event. Finally, we analyze the players’ trajectory 
combined with tennis rules to extract semantic events. The 
experiments indicate that the proposed method achieves 
satisfactory performance with 80% of precision rate and 89% of 
recall rate. 
Keywords- broadcast tennis; trajectory analysis; semantic 
events 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
In the past decade, broadcast programs of sport games are 
quite popular among millions of audiences in the world. A 
huge amount of broadcast sport videos are generated every day. 
Therefore, sport content is expected to develop new 
infotainment applications and services because of its highest 
demand and the highest structure which are possible for 
automatic processing [1]. Meanwhile, because of the 
tremendous commercial value, the topic of sports video 
analysis is significant growth in the research area [2]-[12]. 
According to our observation, for most viewer of sports video, 
they might be only interested in only some portions in a sports 
video. These video clips of interest are usually corresponding 
to some semantic events which have certain actions or 
highlights in sport video, such as aces in tennis games or goals 
in soccer games. Thus most of current research efforts have 
been devoted to sport events detection and extraction, which is 
achieved by semantic analysis of sports video. 
Tennis is a highly structure game that the specification of 
court field is same for all game, to gain a point are clearly 
defined and the player’s interaction is constraint to clear rules. 
As such, we can view the game are organized by the sequences 
of “events”. For a typical tennis game, it consists of two 
players (or four players) in different side usually wearing 
different color dresses, and interacting with a ball within a well 
defined playing field. Different types of shots, especially 
depend upon the players’ action, are organized into events. 
Therefore, the pace and movement of player is interesting and 
are features that can be used for analysis and tracking. Player 
trajectory allows users to keep track of player to player 
interactions [5]-[9]. This is very useful to recognize the event 
in a tennis game. 
A commonly used approach in this case is based on 
trajectories of the detected moving players; the obtained 
trajectories are then used to event detection. For example of 
tennis sports, events such as net play, baseline rally and ace can 
be detected by referring players’ position in the court. 
Therefore, player tracking becomes one of most important 
issue for content analysis of sport videos. The relevant works 
on trajectory analysis for event detection of various sports type 
as in [8], and it is an important issue for sport video analysis. 
II. PROPOSED METHOD 
The flow chart of the event detection system is shown in 
Fig. 1. The flow can be partitioned into two phases 
conceptually. In the pre-processing phase, player detection, 
tracking and player’s trajectory is calculated for necessary data. 
For the event detection, the rules and necessary operation is 
performed to effectively extract semantic events. In this paper, 
we focus on Event detection phase, the detail description of 
pre-processing can be found in [8].  
 
Figure 1.   Flow chart of proposed method  
Since all important events in a tennis game are related to 
the players, therefore to analyze the trajectory and the variation 
of player in playfield is the core issue in event detection. In 
order to unbiased analysis upper court and lower court, all 
player trajectories will map into real-world space as shown in 
Fig. 2. 
 Input 
video 
Playfield 
filtering 
Court line 
filtering 
Player object 
detection 
Kalman-Based 
Player tracking 
Pre-processing phase 
Event Detection phase 
Court line 
detection 
Trajectory 
Modification 
Minor Clip 
Elimination 
Semantic Event 
Detection 
Output 
 
1800
978-1-4577-1415-3/12/$26.00 ©2012 IEEE
sever area exceeding a predefined time; second, for APMC, 
one player change the position from one receiving area to 
another. The minor clip can be viewed as special and short 
events in tennis game without relation with match. Thus the 
above cases are most important event that happens in a game; 
therefore we should detect and eliminate the clips to improve 
the performance. Although, it perhaps exist another types 
minor clip, we ignore them due to much less than above cases. 
C. Semantic Events Detection 
Base on the tennis rule, we define six most important 
semantic events in a game. We explain as follows. 
1. Service: all match starts from services, all players 
stand on fixed position, i.e., serve and receive region. 
Generally, the movement of player in services is 
small. 
2. Ace: serve and goal directly, the receiving player 
can’t hit back the ball. 
3. Fault: the ball is out-of-bound after service. 
4. Double Fault: two successive fault, the competitor 
goal directly. It takes long duration. 
5. Baseline rally: the players rally in baseline with high 
speed motion. It usually takes long time. 
6. Net approach: the player move fast to net and volley. 
Compare these events with sustained time, some of them 
take relative long time and some short, we define them as long 
events (L.E.) and short events (S.E.) respectively. Side change 
(S.C.) is an important feature about score. Because the player is 
score and one round is complete, the player should change 
sever and receive position according rule. Therefore we can 
summary the feature as Table I, and we can label each player’s 
trajectory by the labels in Table I. 
TABLE I.  FEATURES FOR EACH EVENT 
Events Features Label 
S.E. L.E. S.C. 
Serve ○ ------ ------ 
Ace ○ ------ ○ 
Fault ○ ------  
Double Fault ------ ○ ○ 
Baseline Rally ------ ○ ○ 
Net Approach ------ ○ ○ 
For semantic events detection, we should find out the play 
clips in a game, then remove the minor clips in each play clip, 
and finally to detect the semantics. Since we have been remove 
the non-play part of broadcast tennis, so the detection of each 
play clip is straightforward. For each separate clip, we label it 
according to the corresponding player’s trajectory in clip. The 
labels are defined as SC (side change), LE (long event), SE 
(short event), CT (Court trajectory) and NA (net area), 
respectively. We observe the consecutive clips, if the serve 
position is different; we label the clips with SC. For a clip, after 
the minor clip is removed, if the remained clip less than 150 
frames, we label as SE otherwise we label as LE. The events of 
base rally and net approach are always with significant court 
trajectory, thus we use CT to distinguish the clips with or 
without court trajectory. We also observe whether the player 
trajectory close to net area or not. We label with NA for those 
clips close to net area, and then we further to identify the net 
approach event. Here we summary the process of event 
detection as in Fig. 6. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6.   The systematic diagram for semantic event detection 
III. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
In Fig. 7, we demonstrate the performance of motion 
trajectory refinement, and show the motion trajectory with and 
without refinement respectively. Obviously, because the 
trajectory refinement effectively reduces randomness of the 
player’s motion, it performs much reasonable in tracking than 
the original trajectory. Generally, event detection using 
trajectory analysis is very sensitive for the trajectory variation, 
the abrupt change of trajectory will reduce the success of event 
detection even totally false. Therefore, the trajectory 
refinement is a key operation in event detection. The 
refinement trajectory can be applied to further processing. 
（2A） （2B） 
Figure 7.  Motion trajectory refinement 
In Fig. 8, we will show the results of minor clip elimination, 
and present the importance of the operation. We can find that 
the player usually stay for a while before the next sever. Such 
content does not belong to real competition but it will 
significantly influence the correctness of event detection. As an 
example, in Welbedom, the player of lower court slowly walks 
SE 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
SE. 
LE 
 
SC 
LE 
Fault 
Double Fault 
No 
 Net 
approach 
Baseline 
Rally 
No 
NA 
The trajectory 
outside SA 
Ace 
 Clip label analysis 
1802
The International Conference on Consumer Electronics, Communications and Networks 
（CECNet 2012） 
 
www.cecnetconf.org/2012    Apr. 21st-23rd, 2012    Three Gorges, China 
 
Acceptance Notification 
Nov. 14th, 2011 
 
 
Dear Author, 
 
Congratulations! We are extremely glad to inform you that your paper: 
 
Paper ID: ET16597 
Author: Chi-Kao Chang, Min-Yuan Fang, Chung-Ming Kuo*, Nai-Chung Yang 
Paper Title: Event Detection for Broadcast Tennis Videos Based on Trajectory Analysis 
 
has been accepted for presentation at the 2nd International Conference on Consumer 
Electronics, Communications and Networks (CECNet 2012) . 
 
Please finish all registration procedures before Nov. 30th, 2011 by the Registration Instructions 
in attached.  
 
We are grateful for your contribution to CECNet2012. And we are looking forward to meeting 
you in Three Gorges, China. We also hope that you will contribute your excellent work to future 
CECNet conferences. 
  
For more information, please visit our website: www.cecnetconf.org/2012  
Thanks for your support again! 
Best regards! 
 
 
CECNet2012 Organizing Committee 
 
 
IEEE Catalog Number（Print Version）: CFP1253N-PRT  ISBN: 978-1-4577-1412-2-1 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：郭忠民 計畫編號：100-2221-E-214-064- 
計畫名稱：驗證影像之強化研究以應用於影像導引放射線治療 
量化 
成果項目 
實際已達
成數（被接
受或已發
表） 
預期總達成
數(含實際
已達成數)
本計畫
實際貢
獻百分
比 
單位 
備註（質化說明：如數
個計畫共同成果、成
果列為該期刊之封面
故事...等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告 /技術報
告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 6 0 100%  
博士生 1 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告 /技術報
告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 3 0 100% 
篇 
CET2011[A REGION-BASED 
RETINEX WITH DATA 
FILLING FOR ELECTRONIC 
PORTAL IMAGES 
ENHANCEMENT] 、
CECNet2012[Partial 
Distortion Based 
Computation-Constraint 
Motion 
Estimation][Event 
Detection for Broadcast 
Tennis Videos Based on 
Trajectory Analysis] 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
國外 
參與計畫人力 碩士生 0 0 100% 人次  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
在放射線治療的過程中，使用百萬伏特等級的治療用 X 光因受康普頓效應影響，所照射的
驗證影像對比極低，無法如診斷 X 光影像般具有清晰的內容與良好的對比，因此無法提供
臨床醫師足夠資訊進行判斷。但是電子驗證裝置(Electronic Portal Image Device)，因
為其數位化的特性，所以具有容易使用、即時顯示且易於進行數位影像處理的特性。故而
如何利用影像處理技術來強化驗證影像補足先天的不足，使欲觀察的部位清楚呈現即成為
重要的議題。 
本計劃中將要探討有效且快速的方法能夠解決目前強化不足的問題，人體的結構與厚度差
異甚小，所攝得的穿透影像具有十分類似的灰階分布。在分析各部位的影像後依照各區的
特性可求得最佳局部強化參數並套用於所有同部位的影像。因此我們提出了透過影像分區
強化與虛擬資料填充使全域的灰階分群與局部的 Retinex 演算法結合，使驗證影像中原本
隱暗不明的細節，尤其對於驗證治療中心點最有價值的骨骼結構，強化清晰。 
結果顯示，在灰階分群與 Retinex 演算法的通力合作下，原始模糊品質不良的驗證影像，
不但對比提升，動態範圍也壓縮至可於一般螢幕顯示不需再調整參數，有效加速影像導引
的進行，減低治療中病患移動的不確定性。除此之外，顛覆傳統對於臨域的定義，將適當
的虛擬資料填入欲強化的區域周圍，更可勾勒強調骨骼的邊緣位置。處理後的影像骨骼位
置清晰可見，足以提供臨床醫療人員影像導引所需資訊，改善了過往瞎子摸象般在混沌不
清的影像中尋尋覓覓卻常一無所獲的現象。 
部分的研究結果，我們已發表於上海 2011 生物醫學工程與生物技術國際會議。另外我們
