 2
  There are four types of mechanisms proposed up to date for 
explaining the behavior of sensing gas for the semiconductor 
materials. They are volume control, surface adsorption, grain 
boundary barrier, and oxygen adsorption mechanisms. The 
mechanism of oxygen adsorption is proposed from the 
combination of surface adsorption and grain boundary barrier 
mechanisms and is one of the most extensively accepted. The 
oxygen adsorption mechanism can be briefly described as 
follows. 
When the semiconductor materials are in air, the oxygen 
molecular in air can be adsorbed on the semiconductor surface. 
The electrons affinity of oxygen molecular is larger than that of 
semiconductor, so the electrons would be transferred form 
semiconductor to oxygen molecular, as shown in the following 
formula. 
1/2 O2(g) + ne-→ On-(ad) 
Where On-(ad) is the adsorbed oxygen and carries negative 
charges. 
When the semiconductor of which surface has adsorbed 
oxygen is put in the gas to be sensed, the gas to be sensed 
would react with the adsorbed oxygen. For example, the 
reaction for H2 is as the following. 
On-(ad) +H2 → H2O + ne- 
The released electrons ne- would be transferred to 
semiconductor, so the electric resistance of semiconductor 
would vary accordingly. The kind and concentration of sensed 
gas can be determined from the electric resistance variation of 
semiconductor. 
The necessary condition for a semiconductor as a good 
sensing material is high sensitivity, strong selectivity, good 
stability, short time for response and recovery. The n-type 
semiconductor of ZnO is a potential material for the usage of 
sensing gas. It can be used for sensing reducing gas, oxidizing 
gas, and flammable gas such as C2H5OH, C6H6, ….., etc. 
The sensing function of gas sensor is by means of the 
adsorption effect between semiconductor surface and gas 
molecular, so the more the surface area of semiconductor, the 
more the performance of sensing gas, in other words, the 
semiconductor material with smaller size is more suitable for 
gas sensor. For the present, it is a trend to make use of 
nanosized ZnO as the material for sensing gas . 
ZnO is a semiconductor of II-IV compound with a energy 
gap of 3.4eV. It has a wurtzite symmetrical center, so it 
possesses piezoelectricity .There are many methods for 
preparing nanosized ZnO of quasi-one-dimension (QID). The 
QID nanosized ZnO is generally a single crystal and has an axis 
along [0001] direction. Due to the oxygen deficiency and the 
zinc interstitial defect, ZnO is an n-type semiconductor. The 
charge carrier mobility of QID ZnO is 20~100cm2/V.s and can 
reach 4000cm2/V.s after surface treatment [12]. In addition to 
the energy gap of 3.4eV, ZnO has exciton binding energy of 
60meV, so it is suitable for the photoelectric application in short 
wave. Moreover, the electric resistance of QID ZnO is quite 
sensitive in response to some gases, so it can be also applied to 
gas sensing. 
The ZnO nanotetrapods after Pd2+ dopping can be used to 
sensing ammonia [2]. The nanosized ZnO in wire shape has a 
better sensing performance for H2 than those in tube and rod 
shapes [3]. The performance of nanosized ZnO in rod shape for 
sensing H2S and C2H5OH is determined by the preparing 
process [4]. The ZnO nanorod formed by hydrothermal process 
without any treatment has better sensing selectivity and stability 
than the traditional materials [5]. The quartz crystal 
microbalance (QCM) formed by ZnO nanowires deposited on 
the surface of quartz electrode can sensing ammonia [6]. The 
ZnO nanorod about 95nm in diameter has been shown that it has 
quite high sensitivity and selectivity in sensing C6H6 and 
C2H5OH [7]. When the transparent thin film of ZnO is formed 
on Si and glass substrates, its performance for gas sensing is 
much affected by the surface morphology, especially the 
roughness and grain size [8]. The porous ZnO nanoparticle 
formed in autoclave is superior to the general ZnO nanoparticle 
in sensing organic gases [9]. The electric resistance of ZnO film 
doped with Cu by co-sputtering process has an obvious change 
in 6ppm CO at 150℃. This displays the materials has 
potentiality in gas sensing [10]. The junction between p-type 
ZnO and n-type ZnO behaves like a tunneling diode, which is 
sensitive for sensing H2 at 400℃ [11]. 
In the past decade QID semiconductor has been much 
noticed and studied by the world due to its high potentiality in 
 4
temperature, T≦400℃, of the ZnO-FET gas sensor device. 
This would degrade the Cu film as gate. The SiO2 film is about 
1μm in thickness for hindering the inter-diffusion of Si and Cu 
effectively. The thickness of Cu film is about 0.1μm which is 
determined by considering the gate performance and material 
saving. 
The Si3N4 film on the Cu film gate is used as the insulator 
of MOSFET. The insulator film can be also made of other 
insulators such as SiO2, and Al2O3. The insulator can interrupt 
the electric connection between gate and source, drain and 
charge carrier channel. It enables gate to control the resistance 
of charge carrier channel effectively. The Si3N4 film can be 
formed by using sputtering technique. 
In the process of forming the source, drain and ZnO thin 
film on Si3N4 insulator, a film of ZnO thin film is first coated 
on the Si3N4 film, a film of Cu metal is then deposited on the 
ZnO thin film, and a trench about 2μm in width is finally 
formed on the Cu film by using lithography technology. The 
ZnO thin film across the source and drain act as the charge 
carrier channel. The top view of ZnO-FET gas sensor device is 
shown in Fig.3. Under the trench is the ZnO thin film (2). The 
thicknesses of both ZnO thin film and Cu film are about 0.1μm 
and 0.2μm. 
   A field emission scanning electronmicroscope (FESEM) 
(JEOL Ltd., JSM-6330 FEM) operated at 3.0 kV was used to 
observe the cross sectional morphologies. The chemical 
composition of ZnO film was determined by an energy 
dispersive X-ray spectroscope(EDS) equipped in the electron 
microscopes. 
An I-V (current-voltage) measurement devive was used to 
measure the various current (IDS) between source and drain 
under various voltages between source and drain (VDS) and 
between source and gate(VGS) for the ZnO FET in air and in 
CH4+air atmocpheres, respectively. 
 
3. Results and discussion 
 
Fig.4 is the FESEM view for the sample cross section. This 
figure clearly shows the structure of 
Cu(266nm)/ZnO(126nm)/Si3N4(46.9nm)/Cu(158nm). The 
boundaries between various layers are quite even. The top layer 
of Cu(266nm) is coated as the source and drain and the 
Cu(158nm) layer as the gate. The Si3N4 layer has a thickness of 
46.9nm and is coated as the dielectric material. The layer 126nm 
thick is ZnO film. The energy dispersive spectrum(EDS) for  
ZnO film is shown in Fig.5. The EDS analysis reveals that the 
film consists of pure Zn and O, and the amount of O is smaller 
than that of Zn, so the compound of Zn and O can be deduced as 
ZnO1-x, which is an n-type semiconductor. 
 
 
5 
4 
3 2 2 
  
1 
Fig. 1 
Fig.1  A schematic diagram for showing the structure of 
metal-oxide-semiconductor field effect transistor 
(MOSFET). 
Notation：1. semiconductor；2. electrodes-source and drain；3. 
charge carrier channel；4. insulator；5. electrode-gate. 
 
6  6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
1 
 
Fig.2 
Fig.2  A schematic diagram for showing the structure of the gas 
sensor device made of ZnO film field effect transistor 
(ZnO-FET) disclosed in the present work. 
Notation： 1. Si substrate；2. SiO2 film；3. Cu film (gate)；4. 
Si3N4 insulator；5. charge carrier channel of ZnO film；6. Cu 
film (source and drain). 
 Fig.9 
Fig.9 IDS- VGS curves of ZnO FET measured under VDS of 4  
volts in an atmosphere of air+CH4(1 vol.﹪).   
4. Conclusion  
  
 The present work discloses a gas sensor made of field effect 
 transistor based on ZnO thin film(ZnO-FET) which operates  
 according to the principle of metal-oxide-semiconductor field  
 effect transistor (MOSFET) and has a charge carrier channel  
 made of ZnO thin film between source and drain. The gas  
Fig.6 sensor device disclosed in the present work has three  
 
 Fig.6 IDS- VDS curves of ZnO FET measured under various gate 
voltages in air.  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Fig.8  IDS- VDS curves of ZnO FET measured under various 
gate voltage in an atmosphere of air+CH4(1 vol.﹪). Fig.7  
 
Fig.7 IDS- VGS curves of ZnO FET measured under VDS of 4 
volts in air. 
 6
electrodes-cathode and anode. The ZnO thin film as charge 
channel in the gas sensor device of the present work is an n-type 
semiconductor with high specific surface area, and its electric 
resistance can be controlled by the gate bias, so that the 
capability of the present device for sensing gas can be largely 
promoted. Roughly speaking, the IDS measured in air+CH4(1 vol.
﹪) atmosphere is about ten times as large as that measured in 
air atmosphere. 
 
References 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[1] Jia Grace lu , Paichun Chang and Zhiyong Fan, Materuals 
Science and Engineering : R: Reports Volume 52(2006) 49.  
 [2] Xiaohua Wang, Jian Zhang, Ziqiang Zhu, Jianzhong Zhu, 
Physicochem. Eng. Aspect 276(2006) 59.  
 
[3] Chandra Sekhar Rout, A. Hari Krishna, S.R.C. Vivekchand,  
