 1
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
多軸直驅式微細線切割放電加工製程之分析與驗證 
Analysis and Verification of Direct-driven Multi-axes Thin Wire  
Electrical Discharge Machining processes 
 
計 畫 編 號：NSC 97-2221-E-122-003 
執 行 期 限：97 年 8 月 1 日至 98 年 12 月 31 日 
主 持 人：許文政    大漢技術學院機電科技系 
計畫參與人員：魏文正、陳昱甫、李哲璋、蘇信政 
中文摘要 
本文報告發展多軸微線切割放電加工
之機構與其製程之分析驗證。本研究建置線
切割放電加工附增旋轉軸機構、與微放電修
整用之微線割放電研削機構各一種，暨本加
工形制之材料移除率分析模型一種。文中引
用放電角定義，能針對任意角度切入旋轉軸
工件之廣義材料移除率提出分析模型。其中
已導出材料移除率隨切入角度陡升，並急劇
飽和的現象。本分析不僅適於一般多軸線切
割放電加工之材料移除機制，顯然在微小尺
度對於線割放電研削之移除機制同樣適
用。因此可做為具旋轉軸機構之線割放電或
放電研削之基礎闡釋。本研究附帶發展出一
種超音波振動輔助放電研削機構，證實對研
削微電極具提高效率與高表面品質之效。 
關鍵詞：線切割放電加工、線放電研削、材
料移除率、放電角、超音波振動輔助 
Abstract 
Implementation of augmented spindles to Wire 
Electrical Discharge Machining (WEDM) and 
EDM Grinding (WEDG) processes with very thin 
wire are reported. On its analysis, the proposed 
analysis based upon WEDM discharge angle was 
introduced to clarify fundamental understanding of 
material removal mechanism. Cylindrical WEDM 
is a sort of emerging configuration. Its shaped 
contours were basically conjugated to the wire 
electrode’s relative movement with respect to the 
revolution axis. The proposed project provided a 
better understanding for multi-axes WEDM, and 
also useful technological strategy for improving both 
the stability, surface integrity and the accuracy 
performance. An ultrasonic assisted WEDG system 
was also developed, its significant effects on 
improving machining efficiency and surface accuracy 
were verified. 
Keywords: Cylindrical Wire Electrical Discharge 
Machining, WEDG, material removal rate, 
discharge-angle, Ultrasonic assisted machining 
1. INTRODUCTION  
Conventional two dimensional (2D) Wire 
Electrical Discharge Machining (WEDM) 
process is a well known manufacturing process 
to mechanical and manufacturing engineers. 
Its machining capability could be extended to 
tapering with U-V axes. Moreover, it was 
further extended to cylindrical WEDM 
(C-WEDM) with an augmented rotation 
spindle in recent year, as shown in Fig. 1. 
Although there were pioneering researches 
on the feasibility of C-WEDM’s free-forming 
geometries and surface integrity [1-2], 
however, the removal analysis seemed 
fractured and complicated, and the 
performance of the cylindrical WEDM 
processes was still lack of comprehensive 
study. Moreover, the application capability of 
C-WEDM was still vague. 
For example, the different nature between 
C-WEDM and 5 axes CNC machine tool made 
the feasibility of C-WEDMed screw or cam 
still remained obscure. Since the contouring 
surface by C-WEDM is a ruled surface 
conducted by an escaping string as shown in 
Fig. 1, it is conjugated to the sweeping 
trajectory formed by the relative motion of 
traveling wire and the table. However, on the 
other hand, WEDM is still essential or even 
inevitable for machining of hard, 
difficult-to-machined, special alloy, and 
complicated parts. 
Typical application of cylindrical WEDM 
includes roller cutter with harden alloy, milling 
 3
workpiece (precision rod of 3.0 mm dia.) was 
maintained within ±2 μ m at the specified 100 
mm. But it suffered from backlash problem as 
the spindle changed direction. To improve the 
rotation’s back-lash and smooth continuity of 
both directional, this design with gear system 
was further modified to a timing-belt and 
precision bearing in the revised design. An AC 
servo motor was implemented and controlled 
by a motion card with an industrial PC with 
pulse type control.                    
 
Fig 3. Design-2 for rotational spindle with gear 
systems and preloaded carbon brushes. 
  And a waterproof shield was further 
developed for another new design under the 
technical support of Taiwan Metal Industrial 
Research Center’s team. The new design-3 
was aimed at micro C-WEDM with very thin 
wire of 70 micron and even 50 micron in 
diameters. As shown in Fig. 4, it was 
implemented on the table of Agie-Charmilles 
precision WEDM system. 
 
Fig 4. Design-3: Compact C-WEDM system 
for very thin wire (0.07mm dia.) 
 
2-2. AUGMENTED WEDG with otation axis 
WEDG process may be the most popular 
micro-electrode dressing process up to date. In 
the past, WEDG system was only used to dress 
micro-electrode in the 2D table plane. 
However, by similar design concept to macro 
C-WEDM as shown in Fig. 3, their rotational 
mechanism was further expended to thin 
wire’s WEDG system.  
In the lab, an original micro-EDM machine 
was setup by a local EDM machine builder. 
The WEDG system was attached to a machine 
table of micro-EDM machine, as shown in the 
right of Fig 5. Each axis of the micro-EDM 
machine was driven by linear motor 
direct-drive, and guided by aero-static bearings 
with granite support. The WEDG mechanism 
was conducted through a tool steel half-disk 
with V-shape slit along its edge. By choosing 
proper guides and wire tension, the thin wire 
of 100 micron to 70 micron diameters can be 
adopted as WEDG tools. 
As shown in left of the following Figs 5, 
another rotational axis augmented to WEDG 
mechanism for dressing simplicity was 
designed. A 400W AC servo motor with 
reduction gear system was adopted. Since it is 
similar to C-WEDM, similar fundamental 
analysis can be extended from C-WEDM to 
this configuration.  
It is evident that the removal analysis, and 
also the machining stability are even more 
critical in this micro scale. Because its removal 
rate might be obtained in much smaller 
volume than macro WEDM during micro 
machining, and detailed calculation is needed. 
 
Fig 5. Solid model of modified design for 
augmenting rotational axis to WEDG. 
In the lab, such a small working zone was 
observed with a 12x micro scope video system, 
as shown in Fig. 6. The detailed feed direction 
of WEDG wire is along X-axis and augmented 
AC servo motor 
Gear system 
Clamp 
holder 
WEDM table Carbon brush 
WEDM 
nozzle 
WEDM
nozzles
Spindle collets 
very thin 
wire micro-electrode
rotation-axis 
Servo-motor 
& gears system 
X
rotational pivot 
Conductor
 5
along the revolution axis were studied. And a 
general bulking case for inclined with an alpha 
angle w. r. t. rotational axis in free forming is 
proposed. 
3.1 General bulking & inclined angleα  
  A little similar to the lathe, C-WEDM 
process has the capability of free forming on a 
workpiece rod. Consider the case of generally 
cylindrical forming process, where the feed 
direction is inclined an angle, α  w. r. t. the 
revolution axis at a moment as shown in the 
Fig. 10. Its discharge-angle is directly related 
to the incline angle by 
2
C παθ +=               (1) 
As the wire moves forward by a distance 
of λΔ , its removal includes hatched bulks 
volume reaches from the bottom of wire 
surface to the outer radius of work piece. Its 
typical feature can be described by 
discharge-angle of WEDM along a circular arc 
as shown in area ABCFED. The small removal 
volume in such a differential distance can be 
obtained by summing revolving volumes of 
VABCD and VCDEF. Where, 
 
Fig 9. (a)Definition of discharge-angle Cθ in 
WEDM top view. (b)Its removal model. 
2
xr)
3
r-(r2 x )r-(RV 22ABCD
ΔΔΔ+Δ= ππ        (2) 
  The relationship between xΔ , rΔ , and λΔ are 
shown in the right of Fig. 10. For volume 
VCDEF, suppose a moving coordinate ( y,x ) 
located at wire center O, the removal can also 
be derived by coordinated rotation into left of 
the Fig. A of Appendix. Then, the y -direction 
centroid of the hatched area A2 w. r. t. the 
moving coordinate is, 
++ΔΔ+Δ= )
2(1[r
4
1-)sin2
2
r(S
2
1{-y ee
2
2 π
αλπαλλ
)S}/(Sr
3
1S]r
3
4 2
ee λπ Δ+       (3) 
Where, factor S is defined as the cosine 
projection of discharge angle as stated in Eq. 
(A.5) of the Appendix. Moreover, let 
coordinate system ( y ,x ) rotate back to 
the α position, then, the actual centroid of 
hatched area can be obtained as follows. 
)-
2
cos(y)-
2
sin(x y 22
'
2
απαπ +=
 
   
-)sin2
2
r(S
2
1{-)cossin-(1r
2
1- e2e αλλαα Δ+Δ+=    
 λαππ
αλπ Δ+++Δ SS}sinr3
1S]r
3
4)2(1[r
4
1 2
eee    (4) 
 )cosC(1r
2
1-x e2 θ+=                    (5) 
  Hence, by Pappus theorem, the removal in 
front of the wire is derived as, 
)y(r2V '2CDEF 2+= Aπ               (6) 
 
Fig 10. General removal model for C-WEDM 
bulking as an inclined angle with respect to 
revolution axis. 
  Therefore, the general removing process in 
such a bulking formation along a revolution 
axis is then obtained by 
 7
WEDG processes. For example, the original 
WEDG took 16 minutes for typical small 0.1 
mm rod with 2.0 mm long. It took 9.3 minutes 
for WEDG with ultrasonic assisted vibration 
on fluid, and about 9.0 minutes for WEDG 
with ultrasonic on wire electrode directly. 
As shown in Fig. 12, a meso scaled rod 
with different shapes machined by C-WEDM 
was presented in the left. And four mini-heads 
with spiral slits along a conic surface 
machined by the WEDG mechanism was 
presented in the right. In Fig. 12(b), their 
smooth surfaces and precision shape also 
presented the effectiveness of ultrasonic 
assistance machining. And further comparison 
on the machining speed showed that the 
proposed scheme with ultrasonic assistance 
provided much higher speed in WEDG 
without vibration assistance. 
(a) (b) 
Fig. 12. (a) Meso-scale rod and (b) Mini heads 
with spiral cone machined by the ultrasonic 
assisted multi-axial WEDG mechanism.  
 
5. CONCLUSION 
Development and processes analysis of 
multi-axes thin WEDM and WEDG processes 
were reported. A geometrical model on 
material removal rate and some preliminary 
implementation for the C-WEDM applications 
were presented in this report. A generalized 
bulking removal for C-WEDM free forming 
operations based upon discharge-angle is 
proposed and verified. Abruptly increasing 
MRR in the general removal mechanism was 
derived. This report had provided the 
fundamental removal understanding for 
cylindrical WEDM and also for WEDG 
processes with similarity. By introducing an 
ultrasonic assisted vibrator to WEDG system, 
both of the machining efficiency and surface 
integrity of micro electrode were improved 
significantly.  
ACKNOLWEDGEMENT 
Technology supports from Manager Yin 
Chuang and his team in MIRDC, Kaoshong 
Taiwan are acknowledged. 
 
6. REFERENCE 
1. J. Qu, A-J. Shin, and R-O. Scattergood, 
Development of the Cylindrical Wire 
Electrical Discharge Machining Process, 
Part1: Concept, Design, and Material 
Removal Rate, J. Manuf. Sci. and Eng., 
Trans. ASME Vol.124, pp.702-707, 2002. 
2. J. Qu, A-J. Shin, and R-O. Scattergood, 
Development of the Cylindrical Wire 
Electrical Discharge Machining Process, 
Part2: Surface Integrity & Roundness, J. 
Manuf. Sci. and Eng., Trans. ASME 
Vol.124, pp.708-714, 2002. 
3. Internet Web Information on 
http://www.fanuc.co.jp/en / product/ 
robocut/ alphaic5/ index.html & 
http://www.fanuc.co.jp/en/product/robocu
t/alphaic5/toolcutting/toolcutting.html#scr
een 
5. Y. S. Liao, S. T. Chen, and C. S. Lin, 
Development of a high precision tabletop 
versatile CNC wire-EDM for making 
intricate micro parts, J. Micromech. 
Microeng. 15, pp.245–253, 2005. 
4. T. Masuzawa, M. Fujino, and K. Kobayashi, 
Wire Electro Discharge Grinding for 
Micro Machining, Ann. CIRP Vol.34, 
pp.431–434, 1985. 
6. W. J. Hsue, Y. S. Liao, and S. S. Lu, 
Fundamental Geometry Analysis of Wire 
Electrical Discharge Machining in Corner 
Cutting, Int. J. Mach. Tools & Manuf. 
Vol.39(4), pp.651-667, 1998. 
7. W. J. Hsue, Y. S. Liao and S. S. Lu, A Study 
of Corner Control Strategy of Wire-EDM 
Based on Quantitative MRR Analysis, Int. J. 
Elec. Machining, No.4, pp.33-39, 1999. 
8. J. Wang and B. Ravani, Computer Aided 
Contouring Operation for Traveling Wire 
Electric Discharge Machining (EDM), 
Computer-Aided Design Vol.35, 
pp.925–934, 2003. 
表 Y04 1
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                          98 年 12 月 31 日 
報告人姓名  許 文 政 
 
服務機構
及職稱 
 
大漢技術學院機電科技系 
 副教授 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2009 年 12 月 26 日 至 
2009 年 12 月 28 日 
本會核定
補助文號
NSC 97-2221-E-122-003 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 2009 年國際製造科學與工程研討會 
 (英文) Int. Conference on Manufacturing Science & Engineering 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 用於直驅式放電加工主軸之新抬刀控制輔助排屑法 
 (英文) Novel Jump Control for Debris Processes of EDM with 
Direct-Drive Spindle  
報告目錄  
主辦與承辦單位: 
    香港工業技術研究中心與澳洲臥龍岡大學 
            (12/26 ~12/28 於中國大陸珠海市) 
研討會之目標: 研討會旨在為全世界機械製造領域的學者、研
究人員和科學家提供一個交流技術思想、科學觀點以及專業知
識的機會。大會從傳統機械製造、現代電子生產、到特殊加工
製造技術等領域，提供關於基礎科學與實用工程極為寬廣之討
論場域。並且接受的論文將出版在國際期刊《Advanced Materials 
Research》上，該期刊發表的論文全部被 EI 和 ISTP 收錄索引。
少部份優秀的論文經擴展後由組委會推薦到先進製造技術期刊
《International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology》
上發表。 
報告目錄 
一、 參加會議經過 
二、 心得與迴響-發表論文工作 
三、 考察參觀活動 
四、 結論 
五、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
六、 其他附所發表論文與議程) 
附件三
 
表 Y04 3
(2) 各國參加大會之活躍與重視程度 
本屆大會參加人員約有 300 人，主要以中國大陸為大宗，包括台灣日
本、澳洲、韓國、印度、印尼、馬來與美國人等，歐洲人似乎少見，
中東也只見到一位埃及人。 
有鑑於全球看好 13 億人的潛在市場，各國對中國大陸的投資，早已
形成歷史上僅有的單一國家巨大市場，並幾乎成為世界最大工廠的現
象，因此相關的研討與技術交流機會，理應受到各國重視。但可能因主
辦單位由於確定議程及開會註冊、住宿安排等資訊之揭露時程大幅延
遲，造成各國人士不便，致使國際人士出席人數偏低，主要以中國大陸
學術單位研究所師生為主要參與人員。 
 
(3) 台灣參與情形程度 
而我國參與之程度，包括台灣大學、虎尾科技大學、逢甲大學、東
華大學、中華大學，與大漢技術學院等各有一組人員(或更多人)參加。
參與領域涵蓋機械系、機電科技、材料系、機械製造與設計等。 
 
  台灣大部分的機械製造業者，也都已有加入中國大陸的投資生產與
技術競賽。眼看全球業者多半已有佈局中國，投入激烈競爭，台灣如
何於產業競賽之外仍能保持核心技術的領先與保有本土技術的競爭
力，早已是刻不容緩的議題。因此一般學界也需了解中國大陸的技術
進程，互為交流溝通，並隨台商之投資發展，對製造業者所關心的新
興技術也迫切需及早接觸考察，並追蹤中國大陸各方面生產製造技術
之進程，從另一角度看此地，它也已成為全球各工業體急欲建立新生
產線，或移植生產技術之地。 
 
 
2-2:「學術與專業研討工作」: 
  (一) 製造領域專業與技術發展之觀察 
   在已開發國家的各種製造產業領域中，由於高速加工機與新興製造技術已
逐步取代部分應採用傳統工具機製造技術之製程。因此，傳統機械製造之研
發進度與生產技術發展俱發生遞減現象。台灣工具機製造產業所面臨之處境
與此趨勢極類似，或可形容為生產技術發展的高原期。 
 
  但觀察中國大陸學者的選題與研究工作發展方向，似乎比較不受影響。例
如，重點大學如北京清華大學，先進成型製造實驗室固然選擇先進的細胞、
組織甚至與人體器官相關的生物製造領域，開展前瞻性研究。然而，更多大
學與學院似乎仍投入更多人力從事傳統機械製造之相關的基礎或比較常見
的研究課題。稍微深入訪談與交流發現，由於大陸幅員廣、資源充足、生產
表 Y04 5
    (14) Modeling, analysis, and simulation of manufacturing processes 
 
    (15) Computer-aided design, manufacturing, and engineering 
 
    (16) Semiconductor materials manufacturing  
 
    (17) Laser based manufacturing  
 
    (18) Precision molding processes  
 
    (19) Joining processes  
 
    (20) Rapid manufacturing technologies 
 
    (21) Nontraditional manufacturing  
 
    (22) Nanofabrication, nanometrology and applications 
 
    (23) Metrology and measurement  
 
    
其中比較值得注意的新興製造技術領域，包括各種電加工，快速成型/快速工
具(RP/RT)等非傳統工技術，微系統製造技術，微米、奈米、與介觀製造技術
論文等。並且接受的論文將出版在國際期刊《Advanced Materials Research》
上，該期刊發表的論文全部被 EI 和 ISTP 收錄索引。少部份優秀的論文經擴
展後由論文組委會推薦到先進製造技術期刊《 International Journal of 
Advanced Manufacturing Technology》上發表（SCI 和 EI 收錄）。 
 
  (三) 論文發表: 
    我國學界今年也發表多篇論文，本人所貢獻一篇文章題為: 
    用於直驅式放電加工主軸之新抬刀控制輔助排屑法， 
本文如附件所呈現。 
     本文主要是利用本實驗室先前完成之直驅式放電加工機主軸輔以新發
展之 FPGA 放電脈波偵測器，與創新的抬刀控制法有效地輔助 EDM 製程之
排屑，大幅提升加工效率與加工面精度。本文報告線性馬達驅動之放電加工
機 (簡稱為 LmEDM)之設計發展，與薄片電極之深孔高速加工控制策略結
果，並探討直驅式 EDM 主軸高加速度運動下之排渣效果與影響。本文從抬
表 Y04 7
與建德工業集團(KENT China)陳宜賢
總經理於浙江榮德機械二廠合照 
於友佳(友嘉)集團之機床廠與鄭文夏副
理介紹參觀 
 
KENT 浙江榮德機械三廠之大型磨床 
 
表 Y04 9
 
電控箱配線廠(駿邦杭州公司) 
 
 
 
於 KENT 集團(浙江榮德機械廠)陳宜賢總經理室之五軸 CNC 雕刻樣品 
表 Y04 11
大會議程手冊&大會照片 
大會論文集_Special issue of Advanced Materials Research 將於
二月起提供全文線上檢索。 
展場各供應商技術資料  
參觀台商建德集團(KENT)榮德機械廠與 
友佳(友嘉)集團之機床廠， 
力山(力武)電動工具廠及 
其他電控箱配線廠與 
自動刀庫專業廠之照片資料 
 
表 Y04 13
大會照片 4: 研討會所在地-珠海市國際會議中心(德翰大酒店) 
 
 
 cylinder to balance the gravity of the spindle. According to the previous studies on the vibration 
problems of linear motors spindle [10], a short granite gantry was adopted in this structure design to 
provide sufficient damping. 
A PC-based open architecture controller (AI-EDM 2000) developed by Industrial Technology 
Research Institute (ITRI) of Taiwan was adopted. The fully functional CNC EDM controller includes 
adjustment for mechanical conditions and electrical operations. For example, there are settings of 
servo voltage; on-time, off-time, and jumping parameters… etc. 
For electrode’s jump motion, this controller allowed setting of jump height, jump speed, and the 
period of machining time. Thus, the jump time was determined by the height and the acceleration, and 
the jump frequency was determined by the machining time. Originally jump height was set with 
several option divisions of 0.5mm. However, this setting was retrofitted in this report into a 
self-adjusted jump control in associated with a pulse discriminator. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Novel Pulses discriminator & Jump control Strategy  
An EDM pulses discriminator was developed in this paper. We take normal pulses and partial of 
arcing pulses as effective pulses, which contributes to effective removal. And then, by maintaining 
EDM status according to EDM’s effective pulses, controller was designed to improve its efficiency. 
Firstly, as shown in Fig.2, to discriminate the effective discharge from EDM pulses train, a 
CPLD (Complex Programmable Logic Device) board was adopted. Each type of pulses was 
accumulated and provided to PC controller through IEEE RS-485 interface. The main functions in the 
CPLD boards were described as followed: 
(1) High precision comparators: Three comparators with three voltage levels, that is, high 
VH(75V), mediate VM(45V), and low VL(14V) were set respectively. They served as dividers to 
identify respective pulse’s voltage levels. And the fourth comparator was used to identify the level of 
current signal. (2) A photo-couple was used to isolate the high frequency noise of discharge pulses 
from commonly grounded control signal and the measured signals. An inversed gate Schmitt trigger 
was also appended. (3) Pulse discriminator: Voltage levels from high precision comparators were 
discriminated, and current signal were fed into the pulse discriminator, which was mainly assembled 
by a CPLD chip (EPF 10K10TC 144-4) of ALTERA. 
Secondly, the flow chart of the jumping control strategy was described according to Fig.3 as: 
(1) In the beginning, the initial parameters including servo voltage were set before work. (2) To set 
initial jump height, J(0). In the very beginning, the initial jump height was set to zero. (3) Record the 
effective discharge pulses number, P(k), in each sampling interval. (4) If pulse number P(k) was 
increased, the next pulses number was continuously monitored. (5) If it was degraded, then the 
maximum pulses number, PMAX, was easily obtained by comparison succeeded discharge pulses 
numbers. (6) In the next step, the control algorithm was triggered. The effective discharge pulses in 
each sampling interval, P(k), was continuous monitored by CPLD. This control algorithm proposed a 
20% of degradation as reflecting the assumed the poor EDM status. (7) Judge if the discharge pulses 
number P(k) was degraded to lower limit. (8) If it were not so crucial, let the EDM maintain its 
original setting and go to next depth EDMing. (9) As the pulses number was degraded less than lower 
Fig.1. Design of the direct drive EDM spindle.  Fig.2. Developed pulse discriminator for EDM.  
4) CPLD chip 
1) buffer 
2) comparator 
3)Photo-coupl
