(I) 中文摘要  
在未來異質網路的整合環境中，QoS (Quality of Service)的問題益形重要，而以現今的網路 
環境而言，最有可能是整合UMTS與WLAN的異質網路。在本計畫中，我們將以UMTS與
WLAN的異質網路整合環境作為基礎，提出Pricing-Improved QoS的觀念，結合Non usage-
based pricing、Usage-based pricing、Static pricing和Dynamic pricing的優點；利用DiffServ 
(Differentiated Services)機制劃分服務等級(service level)，實際設計出使用者效用函數 
(utility function)與網路成本函數(cost function)，並以第三級差別取價(Third-Degree Price 
Discrimination)與兩段訂價法(Two-Part Tariff)訂定價格。藉著價格機能(pricing)，讓使用者 
表達其對服務等級的需求或期望，並使網路資源適當地分配給各種服務，避免資源浪費或
錯置的情形，以滿足QoS的需求並提高整體社會福利及增加廠商收益(provider revenue)。 
末了，我們將根據Voice over IP、Video Phone、Video Streaming、FTP四種訊務模型， 
在以DiffServ為基礎的UMTS/WLAN網路架構下，利用模擬系統 
 計算各服務等級的最佳使用者人數 
 驗證各服務等級的頻寬配置是否合適 
 驗證各服務等級的QoS要求是否能被滿足 
 驗證是否能有效提升廠商收益 
 
關鍵詞：價格機制、廠商收益、雙網、服務品質(QoS)、差別服務機制(DiffServ) 
 
英文摘要  
The issue of QoS (Quality of Service) is becoming more and more important in the future 
heterogeneous networks integration, and the most feasible integration is UMTS and WLAN as 
for present network environment. In this research, we would propose the concept of Pricing-
Improved QoS which combine those advantages of Usage-based, Non usage-based, Static 
pricing, Dynamic pricing schemes, and the mechanism of differentiating service classes 
according to DiffServ (Differentiated Services). We would then design utility function and cost 
function, and determine the prices using Third-Degree Price Discrimination and Two-Part Tariff 
strategies. Under the pricing mechanism, users will show their expectations of service levels they 
need, and the service providers can thus allocate the network resources appropriately avoiding 
inefficient resource usages. We expect the proposed methodologies could help to meet the QoS 
requirements and increase overall social welfare and providers’ revenue. At the end, we will 
employ network simulator, using VoIP, video phone, video streaming, and FTP four distinct 
traffic models, to  
 Calculate the optimal user number for each service class 
 Verify the effectiveness of bandwidth allocation for each service class 
 Verify whether QoS requirement for each service class can be meet 
 Verify whether providers’ revenues will be increased 
 
Keywords: Pricing, Provider Revenue, UMTS/WLAN, QoS, DiffServ 
 
In this research, we adopt the tight coupling scheme as our integrated UMTS/WLAN network 
structure. We would describe how UMTS/WLAN would interwork with DiffServ in the 
following. Before we go on, we assume that the UE (User Equipment) and GGSN (Gateway 
GPRS Support Node) would support the edge functions of DiffServ, and the backbone IP 
network is also DiffServ enabled. 
The overall end-to-end resource management structure for QoS could be divided into three 
layers. The highest and lowest layers are the IP and RAB (Radio Access Bearer) manager, 
respectively. The middle layer is the UMTS BS (Base Station)  manager. DiffServ mechanism 
would be combined within IP manager layer and this manager is unaware of the underlying 
transport technologies. The mapping of QoS requirement between DiffServ and UMTS QoS 
management mechanism  should also be defined in the UMTS BS manager layer. UMTS QoS 
control mechanism supports per-flow resource allocation and other control. This would be 
achieved by employing UMTS PDP context. Beyond the UMTS GGSN in the external IP 
network, it is expected that the evolving IETF standards DiffServ would provide sufficient QoS 
control and traffic engineering for various services. 
The end-to-end QoS is provided by a local mechanism in the UE, the PDP Context over the 
UMTS access network, DiffServ through the backbone IP network, and DiffServ in the remote 
access network.  Fig. 1 shows the operation of DiffServ in UMTS, the same concept is applicable 
to UMTS/WLAN network. 
 
 
 
Fig. 1：End-to-end all-IP scenario with DiffServ [3] 
 
2.2 QoS Class Mapping 
The QoS classes mapping between UMTS, WLAN and DiffServ, respectively, are required to be 
adapted to the DiffServ structure. 
 
i：the service class 
x：the bandwidth that a user consumes or obtains (kbps) 
ai：the basic utility that users will obtain in each service class 
Ii：the index of the service class, if i > j then Ii > Ij 
cs：cell scale factor, here we assume that umts=1, wlan=0.1 
rb：the factor of bandwidth requirement of selected application 
rt：the buffered factor 
pTi：the fixed charge of each class 
Si：used to parameterize the sensitivity of each class to either congestion or delay 
adi：average delay of each class 
   ：the congestion cost of each user.  
In order to calculate the total demand functions of each service class, we further assume the 
number of users of each service class in the cells of UMTS and WLAN as follows. 
 
 
Table 2：Assumption of the number of users of each service class in a cell of UMTS and WLAN 
 
We assume that half the users are using voice application in UMTS and more than half the 
users are using video phone and multimedia streaming applications in WLAN. The total number 
of users in each cell is set to 20. According to the above assumptions, the demand function of 
each service class can be calculated according to equation (3), where the parameter ni is the 
number of users of service class i. 
 
 (3) 
 
2.4 Cost Function 
 
 Fig. 2：Approximation of two-part tariff 
 
The final results of allocation bandwidth, discrimination price and fixed charge of two-part 
tariff are shown in Tables 3 and 4. 
 
 
Table 3：Allocation bandwidth and discrimination price 
 
 
 
 
Table 4：Fixed charge of two-part tariff 
 
3. Simulation and Analysis 
 
  
Fig. 4：E2E packet delay of UMTS video stream application of two scenarios 
 
Fig. 4 shows the packet end-to-end delay of UMTS video stream application of two 
scenarios. It is similar to the previous AF42 class.  Both scenarios did not allocate enough 
bandwidth.  The allocated bandwidth is insufficient to support the highest traffic load when total 
users have performed the application.  In both scenarios, delay time keeps stable in about 6s and 
then rapidly increases when the traffic load exceeds the allocated bandwidth, which are after 
simulation time 300s and 240s, respectively.  Delay time would not fulfill the QoS requirement 
and finally exceeds 10s when traffic load exceeds the allocated bandwidth. Our method 
(scenario1) could still slow down the rate of increase in delay time about 30% and extend the 
possible service time with QoS for 25% comparing to that of  scenario 2 in the worst-case.  
 
Fig. 5：E2E  packet delay of WLAN video phone application of two scenarios 
 
 4. Conclusions 
 
This research applied economic pricing strategy with DiffServ to integrated UMTS/WLAN 
network to meet the QoS requirement. With limited bandwidth, the system is able to allocate 
suitable network resources to each service class using pricing theory. The simulations showed 
that the system can not only make users use network resources more efficiently but also increase 
the revenue of manufactures. This virtuous circle will certainly contribute to the development of 
whole communication network and derivative services. 
 
5. References 
[1] Christoph Lindemann, Marco Lohmann, and Axel Thümmler, “A unified approach for 
improving QoS and provider revenue in 3G mobile network,” Mobile Networks and 
Applications 8, pp. 209–21, 2003. 
[2] Costas Couroubetis and Richard Weber, Pricing Communication Networks Economics, 
Technology and Modelling, Wiley Press, 2003. 
[3] Sudhir Dixit, and Ramjee Prasad, Wireless IP and Building the Mobile Internet, Artech 
House Press, 2002. 
 
 
(III) 計畫成果自評部份  
 
近年來，政府致力於資訊技術的普及和寬頻網絡的建設，以建設台灣為資訊化社會。其中
「數位台灣計畫」，即致力將台灣打造成一新的數位科技島，發展數位經濟的新平台。透
過該計畫的實施與推動，台灣在資訊基礎建設、政府與產業電子化和社會資訊化等方面皆
有長足的進展。根據Point Topic的調查報告，截至2003年底全球包含xDSL、Cable 
modem及其它寬頻技術之線路已達1億80萬條。其中台灣地區寬頻線路的建設排名全球第
九。此外，台灣的寬頻滲透率僅次於南韓、香港與加拿大，排名全球第四，且單就DSL滲
透率而言，排名僅次於南韓，名列全球第二。「數位台灣計畫」在達預期目標後，行政院
更進一步提出另一國家級電信計畫「M台灣」，即行動台灣，具體的說法應稱為雙網計畫
，包括WLAN及GPRS的網路環境，目標在建立世界第一個雙網服務的環境，帶動第三個
兆元的通信產業發展，並計劃於五年內提升台灣的資訊運用國際競爭力至前五名。 
 
基本上，M台灣計畫實為網際網路基礎建設，雖然由前述的調查數據中，台灣的網路滲透
率及普及率高居全球前十名，但絕大多數的網路基礎建設皆由公營時期的中華電信所完成
。在中華電信民營化後，正式卸下其過去數十年來，對台灣電信網路建設的貢獻與責任，
在民營化的市場中，網路基礎建設的責任將由政府與所有的民營電信公司共同承擔，雖然
要求中華電信開放用戶迴路為政府既定政策，但此部分的爭議與討論卻未曾停止；一般民
營電信公司對網路的基礎建設，在某些因素的影響下慢如龜步，因此「Last 
Mile」的問題也一直無法有效解決。為提供更多的可用資源於未來發展，政府必須投入更
多的網路基礎建設，此即行動台灣計劃的目標之一；解決用戶迴路問題、促進市場競爭以
及整合行動與無線上網，形成全國雙網無縫式架構。 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-004-002 
計畫名稱 雙網環境下藉由價格機制改善服務品質與提高廠商收益之研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
國立政治大學資訊科學系張宏慶副教授 
會議時間地點 1/23/2008 ~ 1/25/2008, Busan, Korea 
會議名稱 The International Conference on Information Networking 2008 (ICOIN2008) 
發表論文題目 OVSF Code Based Framework to Support QoS for WCDMA 
 
參加會議經過及與會心得 
 
本人於97年1月23日至1月25日參加由IEEE Communications Society主辦，在韓國釜山舉辦的The 
International Conference on Information Networking 2008 (ICOIN2008)。INCOIN為IEEE所主辦在通
訊網路領域中極富盛名的國際研討會，每年均有來自世界各地的優秀學者及通訊網路業者共
襄盛舉，今年已是第二十二屆的盛會。本次會議涵蓋當今通訊網路領域中最重要的十三大主
題，分別為Ad hoc and sensor network、Applications and services、Multimedia communications、Home 
networking、Measurement and performance analysis、Traffic management、Next Generation Internet、
Mobile and wireless networks、Network and transport layers、QoS and resource management、Network 
management、Security、Ubiquitous networks。本次會議計有106篇論文發表，外加其餘自行參加
學者，與會人數超過一百五十人。Keynote speech由Hankuk University of Foreign Studies的II-Young 
Chung教授主講，題目為：“New Challenges in Multimedia Networking: IPTV”。本人報告論文
題目為OVSF Code Based Framework to Support QoS for WCDMA，該篇論文獲得與會者的熱烈迴
響。本研究的重要研究成果如下： 
 
Wideband Code Division Multiple Access (WCDMA) uses Orthogonal Variable Spreading Factor 
(OVSF) codes to support diversified data transmission rates and quality of service (QoS). In this paper, 
we propose a OVSF code based framework to support QoS for WCDMA. This framework is based on 
several effective mechanisms of traffic classification, service group selection, OVSF code allocation and 
dynamic code reallocation. Simulations show that the proposed method has performance advantages in 
system utilization, code blocking probability, throughput, code reallocation and packet delay. 
 
研討會議程如附件一及附件二，其它相關資訊請參見網站 http://icoin.org/index2.html。  
 
 
 
 
 
附件二：ICOIN2008 Advanced Program 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
