reorienting the acetabulum. The Bernese 
osteotomy is a specially designed technique that 
is capable of correcting the anatomic deformity 
of the dysplastic acetabulum. However, the 
polygonal shape of the osteotomy can create 
osseous gaps when the fragment is repositioned, 
especially when a large correction is needed. 
From our previous clinical experience, we had 
performed the modified periacetabular 
osteotomy (spherical osteotomy with smooth 
and round surface) in thirty-eight consecutive 
patients. The results with use of serial 
radiographs indicated good clinical outcome. 
Because the fragment is smooth and round, the 
correction is usually obtained without creating 
gaps at the osteotomy site. Although the clinical 
results were satisfactory, a thorough 
understanding of the biomechanical 
performance of this new type of periacetabular 
osteotomy will be very informative and helpful 
for clinical practice. Based on the superiority of 
the clinical outcome, this study was thus 
designed to evaluate the differences of stress 
distributions between (A) traditional 
Bernese-type osteotomy and (B) modified 
periacetabular osteotomy by finite element 
analysis with use of commercially available 
synthetic pelvis. The results indicated, as 
compared to Bernese-type osteotomy, stress 
distribution was more uniform at the cutting 
areas for modified periacetabular osteotomy as a 
result of a more smooth and round surface. We 
concluded that postoperative performance of 
modified periacetabular osteotomy was superior 
to that of traditional Bernese-type osteotomy, 
and was consistent with clinical outcomes. 
Keywords: Periacetabular osteotomy, Finite 
element analysis, Stress distribution 
Introduction  
The Bernese periacetabular osteotomy has 
become popular since it was first described by 
Ganz et al. [1], in 1988, and several authors 
have reported encouraging results [2-5]. 
However, it is a technically demanding 
procedure. The polygonal shape of the 
osteotomy can create osseous gaps when the 
fragment is repositioned, especially when a 
large correction is needed [6,7]. Also, the 
classic Smith-Petersen exposure originally 
used by Ganz et al. carries a high risk of 
postoperative abductor weakness [8]. Although 
the use of the modified Smith-Peterson 
osteotomy will be very informative for clinical 
practice. Based on the superiority of the clinical 
outcome, this study is thus designed to evaluate 
the mechanical performance of the pelvis after 
the modified periacetabular osteotomy. 
Materials and Methods 
Commercially available synthetic 
hemi-pelves (Model: 3005, 3rd generation, 
Pacific Lab. Inc., USA) were used for finite 
element analysis (Fig. 1). CT scan images of the 
synthetic pelvis were obtained at 1.25 mm 
intervals in the transverse planes using a GE 
Hispeed scanner (General Electric, Milwaukee, 
WI, USA). The cross-sectional image files were 
transferred to a custom-written automatic 
contouring program for the detection of the 
contours for the cortical bone and cancellous 
bone. The contours were then input to the 
Solidworks 99 CAD program (Solidworks Corp., 
Boston, MA, USA) for the reconstruction of 
3-D solid model. Based on the intact model, 
both Bernese-polygonal and modified spherical 
periacetabular osteotomy solid models were 
created through the specific surgical procedures. 
The two solid models were then transferred to a 
finite element pre- and post-processing 
program – Mentat 2000 (MSC/MARC, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA) for the generation of 3-D 
meshes. The 10-node 2nd-order hexahedral 
elements were automatically generated in the 
Mentat 2000 program (Fig. 2). All materials 
were assumed to be linear, elastic, homogeneous 
and isotropic. The Poisson's ratios for all 
materials were set to be 0.3 and the moduli of 
elasticity used for the cortical bone (composite 
glass fiber/epoxy resin), cancellous bone 
(polyurethane foam), and fixation screws 
(stainless steel) will be set 14.2 GPa, 50 MPa, 
and 193 GPa, respectively [9]. The threads and 
the tips for all fixation screws will not be 
modelled in the FEA model in order to simplify 
the model set-up. The bone/screw interfaces for 
two models are assumed fully bonded without 
taking into account the micro-motions. Analysis 
was performed for loading condition simulating 
single-legged stance [10]. The superior ends of 
the pelvis were constrained as boundary 
condition. The finite element analysis of the 
postoperative hemi-pelvis and osteotomized 
fragments following Bernese polygonal and 
modified spherical osteotomies were analyzed 
using the MARC 2000 finite element software 
(MSC/MARC, Los Angeles, CA, USA) on an 
osteotomy, stress distribution was more uniform 
at the cutting areas for modified periacetabular 
osteotomy as a result of a more smooth and 
round surface.  
 
Fig. 3 The Von Mises stress of the postoperative 
pelvis with (A) traditional Bernese- and (B) 
modified periacetabular osteotomy. 
Discussion 
Periacetabular osteotomy is a well 
established procedure for the treatment of adult 
dysplastic hips. With appropriate techniques 
performed in properly selected patients, 
periacetabular osteotomy has the potential to 
correct the dysplastic acetabulum, relieve pain, 
improve function, and to prevent osteoarthritic 
changes from progression [11,12]. Several types 
of periacetabular osteotomy have been 
developed, and most of them are considered 
technically demanding [13,14]. Difficulties arise 
not only from the complex anatomical structures 
of the pelvis, but also from the limited 
visualization provided by traditional surgical 
approaches in which some of the bony cuts have 
to be done out of the surgeon’s field of view. 
In our previous experience for the modified 
with use of computer-assisted navigation in 
periacetabular osteotomy. Periacetabular 
osteotomy is an effective but technically 
demanding surgical procedure. The results with 
use of serial radiographs indicated good clinical 
outcome. Because the fragment is smooth and 
round, the correction is usually obtained without 
creating gaps at the osteotomy site. Although the 
clinical results were satisfactory, a thorough 
understanding of the biomechanical 
performance of this new type of periacetabular 
osteotomy will be very informative and helpful 
performance of modified periacetabular 
osteotomy was superior to that of traditional 
Bernese-type osteotomy, and was consistent 
with clinical outcomes. 
Acknowledgements 
This study was supported by a grant from the 
National Science Council of the Republic of 
China (grant no. NSC95-2221-E-182A-002 
-MY2).  
References 
[1] Ganz R, Klaue K, Vinh TS, Mast JW. A new      
periacetabular osteotomy for the treatment 
of hip dysplasias. Technique and 
preliminary results. Clin Orthop. 
1988;232:26–36. 
[2] Crockarell J Jr, Trousdale RT, Cabanela ME, 
Berry DJ. Early experience and results with 
the periacetabular osteotomy. The Mayo 
Clinic experience. Clin Orthop. 999;363: 
45–53. 
[3] Matta JM, Stover MD, Siebenrock K. 
Periacetabular osteotomy through the 
Smith-Petersen approach. Clin Orthop. 
1999;363:21–32. 
[4] Siebenrock KA, Scholl E, Lottenbach M, 
Ganz R. Bernese periacetabular osteotomy. 
Clin Orthop. 1999;363:9–20. 
[5] Trumble SJ, Mayo KA, Mast JW. The 
periacetabular osteotomy. Minimum 2 year 
followup in more than 100 hips. Clin Orthop. 
1999;363:54–63. 
[6] Davey JP, Santore RF. Complications of 
periacetabular osteotomy. Clin Orthop. 
1999;363:33–7. 
[7] Hussell JG, Rodriguez JA, Ganz R. 
Technical complications of the Bernese 
periacetabular osteotomy. Clin Orthop. 
1999;363:81–92. 
[8] Hussell JG, Mast JW, Mayo KA, Howie DW, 
Ganz R. A comparison of different surgical 
approaches for the periacetabular osteotomy. 
Clin Orthop. 1999;363:64–72. 
[9] McNamara BP, Cristofolini L, Toni A, 
Taylor D. Relationship between 
bone-prosthesis bonding and load transfer in 
total hip reconstruction. J Biomech 1997; 
30:621-30. 
[10] Mann KA, Bartel DL, Avers DC. Influence 
of stem geometry on mechanics of 
cemented femoral hip components with a 
proximal bond. J Orthop Res 
1997;15:700–706. 
  
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-182 -079 -MY2 
計畫名稱 改良式髖臼截骨矯正手術之生物力學研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
戴金龍 （長庚大學醫療機電研究所助理教授） 
會議時間地點 96.11.5-96.11.8,  日本、東京 （Tokyo, Japan） 
會議名稱 第三屆亞太生物力學國際會議 
發表論文題目 Effect of femoral canal pre-cooling on the cement/prosthesis interface in total hip arthroplasty- an experimental study 
 
一、參加會議經過 
本人此次獲行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫之補助，利用公假得以參加本(三)屆亞
太生物力學研討會(Third Asian Pacific Conference on Biomechanics, AP Biomech 2007)。本屆
會議係於 2007 年 11 月 5 至 8 日於日本東京大學 Komaba Research Campus, Komaba 
Convention Hall 舉行，共有三百餘位學者與會，會議論文以口頭及海報兩種方式發表。其
中，口頭發表之論文約一百餘篇；海報部份亦有四十餘篇。本次大會，來自臺灣之研究人員
包括中原大學陳文斌教授師生；臺灣大學王兆麟、呂東武教授師生；成功大學蘇芳慶、朱銘
祥、成戍珠、王苓華教授師生；慈濟技術學院楊志鴻教授；高雄醫學大學郭藍遠教授；義守
大學林鼎勝教授......等，是本屆會議中，除日本外之最大團隊（韓國次之）。彼此交換研究
心得，獲益良多。與會其間，本人依事先排定之時間，全程參與會議。此外，大會並已決
議，下（四）屆之研討會將於紐西蘭舉辦。 
此次參與會議之概況如下： 
本人於 11 月 3 日搭乘中華航空班機前往東京。會議期間共四天，本人除以口頭發表論
文外，並獲大會邀請與日本新瀉大學（Niigata University）的 Makoto Sakamoto 教授共同擔
任 11 月 8 日「Orthopaedic & Rehabilitation Biomechanics」 session 中之座長，並對與會之
「年青學者研究獎（Young Investigator Award）」進行評審。大會結束後，於次日（11 月 9 
日）搭乘華航班機回抵台灣。 
本人獲大會接受以口頭報告方式發表之論文題目為：全人工髖關節手術中，骨髓腔預冷
對於骨水泥/股骨柄界面之影響-體外實驗(Effect of femoral canal pre-cooling on the 
cement/prosthesis interface in total hip arthroplasty- an experimental study)。主要內容如下： 
全人工髖關節置換手術中，為加強骨水泥與股骨柄間之界面強度，以往文獻中有多種方
法被提出。其中包括於骨水泥硬化過程中，加壓灌注、真空抽吸、植入時間、股骨柄表面處
  
產生的傷害風險。除提供骨科醫師術前規劃之量化參考依據外，預期亦將大幅提高此類手術
的成功率。 
二、與會心得 
本次會議所涵蓋之主題極為廣泛，共有六個會場同時舉行。論文主題包括 Micro& Nano 
Biomechanics、Orthopaedic & Rehabilitation Biomechanics、Musculoskeletal Biomechanics、
Cardiovascular Mechanics、Computational Biomechanics、Artificial Organs & Implants、Human 
Dynamics & Stability、Mechanical Analysis & Its Applications、Joints & Sensory Organs、Cell 
& Tissue Engineering、Biomaterials、Dental Biomechanics、Sports & Impact Biomechanics、
Bone Ligament、Gait & Motion Analysis、Microbiorheology、Motion & Impact Biomechanics
等。可依個人之研究領域及興趣，選擇相關之論文聆聽或參與討論。由於本人向來專注於髖
部人工關節及脊椎之生物力學實驗量測之基礎研究，因此對於相關之論文，均依事先排定之
時間，全程參與。其中對於諸多利用新科技進行高可靠性實驗之相關論文，更是印象深刻。
綜觀此次大會發表之股骨及脊椎生物力學相關論文中，實際的實驗量測及有限元素分析約各
占半數。本人此次於大會中發表之論文在實際量測方面，由於實驗所用的主要量測設備
MTS Bionix 858 系統，現階段屬於先進之世界級量測系統，因此，若相較於其他論文，所獲
結果之可靠性將有過之而無不及。由於本篇論文系統化的探討（1）骨水泥聚合反應的最高
硬化溫度；（2）骨水泥硬化完成後，骨髓腔預先冷卻對於股骨柄/骨水泥界面強度的影響；
（3）孔洞分佈等三種不同的方法進行分析比較，引發與會人士的極大興趣及廣泛討論。 
此外，經聆聽其他學者的成果後，本人對於韓國慶熙（Kyung Hee）大學 Kim Yoon-
Hyuk 教授所發表之論文“Biomechanical analysis of the implant malalignment in posterior 
stabilized total knee replacement“有極大之興趣，除於報告中提出問題外，更於會後與其針對
相關議題，進行諸多討論。此篇論文主要是探討全人工膝關節置換手術時，人工膝關節發生
不當對位情況下，對於術後應力分佈之影響。由於本人過去亦曾有類似研究構想，但是始終
無法提出合理的假設邊界條件。主要理由是：人工膝關節在內（Varus）、外（Valgus）翻
不當對位情況下，在有限元素分析的邊界條件中僅存在兩種情況，（一）單側接觸，另一側
則懸空。此種邊界條件由於未改變股骨之施力方向及膝關節之應力分佈，因此邊界條件之假
設較為簡單，但不符合臨床生理實際情況；本人認為沒有研究價值；（二）術後膝關節自動
調節，致內、外側全面接觸。此情況符合臨床生理實際情況，但是將以改變股骨之施力方向
及改變膝關節之應力分佈來做補償。因此，在進行邊界條件之假設前，膝關節之應力分佈必
須為已知。唯經搜查過去之文獻，並無相關數據可供引用。為此，目前本人暫緩此項研究構
想之執行。 
