cells in evoking retinal responses by using the 
Digital Light Processing (DLP) as a light source.  
We use the pig retina as a model system to 
investigate the effects of sub-retinal prosthetic 
stimulation on spiking activities of several known 
ganglion cells types in vitro. We will place the 
isolated retina (ganglion side up) onto the MPA, thus 
the photoreceptor side can be stimulated directly by 
electric stimulation, while responses of individual 
ganglion cells can be monitored continuously from the 
electrode above. Spatial and temporal properties of 
ganglion cells upon prosthetic stimulation will be 
systematically characterized. Other short-term safety 
and reliability of this implantable retinal chip will 
be monitored carefully throughout the experiment.  
The MPA (various kinds) will be implanted to mini-pig 
subretinal space for in vivo study through vitrectomy 
and artificial retinal detachment. After several 
weeks＇ settling, ERG will be performed with LED or 
DLP projecting light into the array, which will be 
the operating model in the future human trial. If 
available, animal functional MRI will be applied to 
investigate the visual cortex activation through the 
array. Retinal pathology will be done to evaluate the 
safety and biocompatibility of this system.  
In addition, if we trim the substrate part of the 
photodiode and put it onto epiretina, substrate part 
facing the input light, this subretinal device thus 
turns out to be an epiretinal device, equipped with 
big surface area of output electrodes and powered by 
light. If it works, the in vitro and in vivo 
investigation will also be performed. 
英文關鍵詞： retinal prosthesis, transparent electrodes, 
microphotodiode array, retina 
 
 2
 
邁向人體試驗之植入式人工視網膜系統之研發與動物實驗驗證－子計畫三：
新穎透明電極於下視網膜植入式電子眼系統之體外與體內生物效應之研究
(1/3) 
 
 
 
計畫類別：□個別型計畫   ■整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC100－2220－E－010－001－ 
執行期間：100年 5 月 1 日至 101年 4 月 30 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立陽明大學醫學系/台北榮總眼科部 
 
計畫主持人：林伯剛 
共同主持人：焦傳金 
計畫參與人員：隋孟君、楊雅婷、黃彣軒、蘇文生、廖庭維  
 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國報告： 
□赴國外移地研究心得報告 
□赴大陸地區移地研究心得報告 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            ■涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年■二年後可公開查詢 
 
 
中   華   民   國 101年  2 月  23 日 
■期中進度報告行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 □期末報告 
 4
二、研究計畫英文摘要：  
 
Keywords: retinal prosthesis, transparent electrodes, microphotodiode array, retina 
In subretinal prosthesis, retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) are activated through electrical stimulation of the 
retinal neural network. Although our past study demonstrated that monkey electroretinography (ERG) can be 
triggered and rabbit RGC responses can be successfully evoked by electrical currents generated from the 
silicon-based solar cells (microphotodiode array, MPA) when activated by a point laser light source, it is not 
known if a patterned light array can drive patterned responses of RGCs with a silicon-based MPA. This study 
is aimed to evaluate the biological efficacy of the solar cells in evoking retinal responses by using the Digital 
Light Processing (DLP) as a light source.  
We use the pig retina as a model system to investigate the effects of sub-retinal prosthetic stimulation on 
spiking activities of several known ganglion cells types in vitro. We will place the isolated retina (ganglion 
side up) onto the MPA, thus the photoreceptor side can be stimulated directly by electric stimulation, while 
responses of individual ganglion cells can be monitored continuously from the electrode above. Spatial and 
temporal properties of ganglion cells upon prosthetic stimulation will be systematically characterized. Other 
short-term safety and reliability of this implantable retinal chip will be monitored carefully throughout the 
experiment.  
The MPA (various kinds) will be implanted to mini-pig subretinal space for in vivo study through 
vitrectomy and artificial retinal detachment. After several weeks’ settling, ERG will be performed with LED 
or DLP projecting light into the array, which will be the operating model in the future human trial. If available, 
animal functional MRI will be applied to investigate the visual cortex activation through the array. Retinal 
pathology will be done to evaluate the safety and biocompatibility of this system.  
In addition, if we trim the substrate part of the photodiode and put it onto epiretina, substrate part facing 
the input light, this subretinal device thus turns out to be an epiretinal device, equipped with big surface area 
of output electrodes and powered by light. If it works, the in vitro and in vivo investigation will also be 
performed.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6
vacuum, alternatives are being sought. Carbon nanotube conductive coatings are a prospective replacement. 
Inherently conductive polymers (ICPs) are also being developed for some ITO applications. Other alternatives 
are e.g. aluminium-doped zinc oxide (AZO). However, ITO does consistently defeat AZO in almost every 
performance category including chemical resistance to moisture. By tailoring the size of the ITO rods, they 
can be made to absorb light within a specific narrow band of colors. So ITO can be used in nanotechnology to 
provide a path to a new generation of solar cells. 
Focused ion beam, also known as FIB, is a technique used particularly in the semiconductor and 
materials science fields for site-specific analysis, deposition, and ablation of materials. An FIB setup 
resembles a scanning electron microscope (SEM). However, while the SEM uses a focused beam of electrons 
to image the sample in the chamber, an FIB setup instead uses a focused beam of ions. FIB can also be 
incorporated in a system with both electron and ion beam columns, allowing the same feature to be 
investigated using either of the beams. 
Mask has been widely used as a routine step in semiconductor industry. UV light passing though a mask 
onto photoresist coated wafer, the after developing and possible RIE, we can project the pattern we want onto 
the surface of silicon wafer, also the chip. In addition to FIB, mask is an alternative to make the transparent 
electrode array. 
《Materials and methods》 
1. Transparent electrode materials: ITO, or ZnO, AZO, or others. Base: Glass board, Ceramic board, 
Aluminum electrode, photodiode array  
2. Coating methods: E-gun evaporation, or Sputtering 
3. Lithography of electrodes: FIB 
4. Investigations: resistance, absorbance, biocompatibility, and electrophysiology 
<ITO 濺鍍流程> 
1. 為一般性之氧化物濺鍍(sputter) 
2. 置晶片入腔體後通 Ar與 O2 ，Ar/O2 =20/3 sccm，工作壓力 5 mtorr  
3. 使用 RF power 150W 濺鍍，鍍率約 0.18 Å/s ，約鍍 2000 Å 
4. 放入烤箱 通 N2 進行一般的 anneal ， 350度 60min 
<E-Gun (ITO鍍膜)操作流程> 
1. 使用前先行確認前一位使用者使用狀況，並注意機器是否在待機狀態。 
2. 機器在待機狀態時，腔體是抽真空的狀態，所以先在面板上點選抽真空=>停止，此時腔體旁會有卡
榫扣上的聲音，聽到聲音後才可繼續下一步。 
3. 接著點選破真空=>開始，此時氮氣會灌進腔體，等到腔體門自動打開後，點選破真空=>停止。 
4. 接下來 Load sample、放 ITO靶材、換 crystal。由於 sample較小無法直接夾在旋轉盤上，所以必須
先用雙面絕熱膠帶黏在一基板上，再將基版利用迴紋針固定在旋轉盤上。 
5. ITO 靶材放在腔體正下方，放 ITO 靶材時必須放在正確的位置(2 號位置)上。Crystal 是用來偵測鍍
 8
4. ERG測試時，先將 ERG的環型角膜電極與眼球接觸面塗抹上導電膠後置入眼瞼服貼於瞳孔上，並
將上方的光源放置上去，再將參考電極接於眼皮上後，即可進行測試。 
5. 紅外線（IR）照射係以紅外線 LED 做為光源，使用時將光源置於眼睛上方約 1 公分處對準瞳孔進
行照射。 
6. 本測試將猪的一個眼睛做為對照組直接測 ERG，另一個眼睛則先照射紅外線 3小時後再做 ERG測
試，根據測得之電性變化可判定眼球是否受損。 
 
Part II. To optimize the specifications of the retinal chip based on the responses of retinal ganglion cells 
upon electrical stimulation. 
Unlike the epi-retinal stimulation where the electrodes are placed directly on top of retinal ganglion cells 
(RGCs), the sub-retinal prosthesis stimulate cells from the photoreceptor side of the retina, thus the delivered 
current excites the retinal network instead of the RGCs directly. To investigate how RGCs respond upon 
direct electrical stimulation of the outer retina, we plan to extracellularly record physiological properties of 
RGCs during sub-retinal electrical stimulation using a point laser light source. Various designs of 
silicon-based solar cell array will be tested and compared. 
Retinal preparation 
New Zealand White rabbits of either sex, weighing 2-3 kg, were anesthetized by an intramuscular 
injection of ketamine (75-100 mg/kg; Imagine 1000; Merial, France) and xylazine (15-20 mg/kg; Rompun 2%; 
Bayer HealthCare, Germany). The local anesthetic proparacaine hydrochloride 0.5% ophthalmic solution 
(Alcaine; Alcon-Couvreur, Belgium) was applied to the eye before injecting 2 µL of 4, 
6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI; 2 µg/µL; Sigma, St. Louis, MO) intraocularly. The DAPI injection was 
used to aid nucleus visualization and thus cell type identification. The animal was allowed to recover. One day 
after DAPI injection, the animal was dark-adapted for one hour before dissection. The rabbit was enucleated 
under deep anesthesia by intramuscular (130-160 mg/kg ketamine and 26-32 mg/kg xylazine) and intravenous 
(50 mg/kg ketamine) injections. The eyes were also anesthetized locally with a few drops of 0.5% 
proparacaine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution before enucleation and hemisection. All surgery and 
electrophysiological experiments were accomplished under dim red illumination. The animal was then 
euthanized with CO2. All procedures were approved by the institutional animal care and use committee and 
were conducted in accordance with the ARVO Statement for the Use of Animals in Ophthalmic and Vision 
Research. The anterior segment of the eyeball and the vitreous humor were removed. The eyecup was 
immersed in oxygenated (95% O2 and 5% CO2) modified Ames’ medium (120 mM NaCl, 3.1 mM KCl, 0.5 
mM KH2PO4, 1.2 mM MgSO4, 1.15 mM CaCl2, 6.0 mM D-glucose, 23 mM NaHCO3, pH 7.7), and the 
retina was carefully peeled off the retinal pigment epithelium and the sclera. A small piece of retina (7 mm in 
diameter) was cut off and placed on a silicon chip, photoreceptor layer down, with the aid of a large piece of 
membrane filter (0.45 µm MF-Millipore; Millipore, Bedford, MA) attached under the silicon chip (Fig. 1A). 
This prepared unit was then transferred to a recording chamber mounted on the stage of a Zeiss Axioskop 2 
FS Plus fluorescence microscope (Zeiss, Germany) and superfused at 1.5-2.5 ml/min with oxygenated 
modified Ames’ medium at 35-37°C. 
Visual stimulation  
Visual stimuli generated by VisionWorkTM 4.0 (Vision Research Graphics, Durham, NH) were 
 10
 
五、結果與討論 
猪隻 ERG實驗結果 
2A.                                          2B. 
  
  
2C.                                          2D. 
猪隻麻醉後保定於手術台上，並給予人工呼吸器監控(圖 2A) 。紅外線源由三個紅外線 LED構成(圖 
2B) 。ERG測試時，環狀線圈置於瞳孔上(圖 2C) 。紅外線連續照射時，是將紅外線發射器固定於眼
部上方，直接進距離照射瞳孔(圖 2D)。 
根據我們初步的實驗結果如圖二，2D圖為實驗對照組結果，是將猪眼睛直接測試 ERG所得到的
電性變化圖。2E圖則是將猪的另外一支眼睛，先照射紅外線 3小時後，再測試 ERG所得到的電性變
化圖。兩圖的特徵幾乎一樣，因此可以判定猪的眼睛並沒有因為照射紅外線而使細胞受損。不過由於
實驗照射時間並非很長，所以我們無法斷定長時間照射紅外線時，是否會使眼睛受損。因此，之後我
們將繼續進行長時間的照射測試，如 12小時、24小時等，甚或更長的時間，以判定長時間照射紅外
線對眼睛的效應。 
 
 12
  
Figure 3B. ITO sputter, a single pixel with an electrode and surrounding photosensors, both ITO coated. 
Figure 3C. ITO sputter, 5x5 pixels 
Figure 3D. ITO layer thickness measurement 
 
Figure 3E. Surface profiles of ITO-coated retinal chip 
 14
Gold Bump 
 
Figure 5A. Comparisons of intensity effects of RGC upon MAP2 and MAP2-gold ball stimulation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5B. 
MPA2
100 1000 10000
20
30
40
50
60
70
Fi
rs
t s
pi
ke
 la
te
nc
y(
m
s)
Intensity (uC/cm2)
100 1000 10000
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
 Intensity (uC/cm2)
Sp
ik
e 
nu
m
be
r
100 1000 10000
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
 Intensity (uC/cm2)
Pe
rc
en
t o
f r
es
po
nd
ed
 tr
ia
ls
D E F16.3
40-50
MPA2
with
Gold ball
*
Fi
rs
t s
pi
ke
 la
te
nc
y(
m
s)
Sp
ik
e 
nu
m
be
r
Pe
rc
en
t o
f r
es
po
nd
ed
 tr
ia
ls
0 20 40 60 80 100
-
0
1m
Trials
0 20 40 60 80 100
-
0
1m
0 20 40 60 80 100
-
0
1m
0 20 40 60 80 100
-
0
1m
0 20 40 60 80 100
-
0
1m
Time from stimulation
 16
Spiking activity of alpha RGCs can be electrically evoked by activating the MPDA  
To characterize the responses of morphologically identified RGCs upon electrical stimulation by a 532 
nm laser activated MPDA from the subretinal side, both ON and OFF alpha RGCs in the normal rabbit retina 
were recorded extracellularly. The typical response of an ON alpha RGC to ten electrical stimulations showed 
two distinct bursts of spikes for each electrical pulse (Figure 6).  
 
Figure 6 Responses of a morphologically identified ON alpha RGC to electrical stimulation. (A) Confocal 
image of an alpha RGC injected with Neurobiotin after recording to show its dendritic morphology. Inset: the cell 
soma on the MPDA was revealed by Lucifer Yellow injection. (B) Top: the raster plots of the ON alpha RGC 
spiking response to ten electrical stimulations. Bottom, the post-stimulus time histogram (PSTH, 10 ms bins) 
generated by averaging ten stimulations. Note that two distinct bursts of spikes can been seen to be evoked by a 
single electrical pulse stimulation in this ganglion cell. 
This result demonstrates that a RGCs response can be successfully elicited using our silicon-based 
MPDA in vitro. This also suggests that the electrically evoked spiking pattern is apparently different from that 
of the visual response (see below). A total of 17 alpha RGCs were recorded and the majority (ON cells, 6/7; 
 18
Characterization of the alpha RGC responses to a single pulse of electrical stimulation  
To determine the threshold of the alpha RGC response on electrical stimulation of the MPDA, single 
pulses at different stimulation intensities were applied. Even at the lowest charge density (39 µC/cm2) in our 
system, both the ON and OFF alpha RGCs still showed a more than 50% response level (Fig. 7A). This 
indicates that the threshold of the alpha RGCs on electrical stimulation is much lower than in most previous 
studies (see Supplementary Table 1) and also suggests that the silicon-based MPDA is capable of generating 
enough electrical current to stimulate the retina from the photoreceptor side. This result is consistent with 
previous finding that direct activation of the retina by a subretinal MPDA implant induces activity in the 
superior colliculus of RCS rats. 
 
Figure 7 The low threshold of the alpha RGCs on electrical stimulation using the silicon-based MPDA. (A) 
The average percentage response level of the ON and OFF alpha ganglion cells on stimulation with various 
electrical currents. Even using the lowest charge density (39 µC/cm2) available to our system, both the ON and 
OFF alpha RGCs still showed a better than 50% response, which makes the thresholds of alpha RGCs upon 
electrical stimulation much lower than in previous studies. (B)&(C) The characteristic responses of the alpha 
RGCs stimulated by increasing electrical currents. The first spike latencies of both the ON and OFF alpha RGCs 
were slightly decreased as the electrical stimulation increased. In contrast, the spike rates of both the ON and OFF 
cells increased initially at moderate electrical current levels as the current was increased, but this response was 
muted by further increases in electrical stimulation at higher current levels. The numbers in parentheses indicate 
the number of cells examined. Error bars indicate mean ± SEM. 
To further characterize the alpha RGC response to a single pulse of electrical stimulation, the spiking 
patterns of the cells stimulated with different electrical currents were analyzed. The first spike latencies of 
both the ON and OFF alpha were slightly decreased as the electrical stimulation increased (Fig. 7B). In 
contrast, the spike rates of both the ON and OFF cells increased initially with moderate electrical current 
increases, but the response was reduced as the electrical stimulation increased further (Fig. 7C). These results 
indicate that the alpha RGC response is relatively insensitive to the strength of the suprathreshold electrical 
stimulation, which implies that a minimal electrical current that is just above the threshold may be the optimal 
stimulation strength for a subretinal prosthesis. However, this also suggests that the electrically evoked RGC 
response does not have a large dynamic range that would allow variation in stimulation strength to be encoded. 
This implies in turn that modulating the pulse frequency rather than the pulse intensity might be a key 
component in prosthetic design. 
 20
temporal frequencies of the repetitive stimulation above 5 Hz (Fig. 9C). Taken together, these results suggest 
that response of alpha RGCs to repetitive electrical stimulation is significantly reduced at high temporal 
frequencies. This also implies that modulating the pulse frequency in a subretinal prosthesis will be limited to 
low frequency. However, the fact that ON and OFF alpha RGCs showed distinct responses to repetitive 
electrical stimulation suggests that selectively activating the ON pathway in the retina with a higher temporal 
frequency may be possible. 
 
Figure 9 Responses of alpha RGCs to repetitive electrical stimulations are significantly reduced at high 
temporal frequencies. (A) Pair-pulse suppression of ON and OFF alpha RGCs upon repetitive stimulations. The 
ratio of the 2nd response amplitude to the 1st response amplitude (Amp2/Amp1) was significantly decreased when 
the temporal frequency was above 5 Hz. (B) Average percentage response of ON and OFF cells to ten repetitive 
electrical stimulations at various temporal frequencies. Both types of cells gave rise to spiking responses in less 
than 50% of cases when the temporal frequency was above 10 Hz. (C) Normalized average responses of both ON 
and OFF cells to ten repetitive electrical stimulations at various temporal frequencies. The ON cells showed a 
lower frequency dependent responses while the response of OFF cell was significantly decreased when the 
temporal frequency of the repetitive stimulation was above 5 Hz. * indicate p < 0.05, and the numbers in 
parentheses are the number of cells examined. Error bars indicate mean ± SEM. 
 
 
 
 
 
 22
Abstract 
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a human inherited disease, which leads to the loss of vision caused by 
photoreceptor degeneration. It is known that the degenerated photoreceptors could result in a dramatic retinal 
reorganization or remodeling at later stages in the RCS rat, one of animal models for studying RP. Most 
therapeutic strategies for restoring vision rely on the intact properties of remaining neurons. However, how 
the retinal remodeling affects morphologies of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) has not been carefully examined. 
The present study was aimed to characterize the morphological features of RGCs in the RCS rat at later stages 
of degeneration. A few types of Neurobiotin injected RGCs from two aged groups of RCS rats (P331-418 and 
P526-575) and two strains of normal rats (SD and LE) were compared to examine the effect of retinal 
degeneration on RGC morphologies. We found that several morphological features of RGCs, including total 
dendritic length, number of branching points, appearance of dendritic beads, and tracer coupling patterns in 
the RCS rats were significantly different from those in the normal rats. This finding indicates that RGCs in the 
RCS rat may undergo significant changes during retinal remodeling at later stages of degeneration. This also 
suggests that the strategy of treating RP at later stages cannot assume intact RGCs. 
 
 24
4. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
一、學術成就方面 
1. 新款的視網膜 ITO透明電極晶片。 
2. 多電極視網膜電生理分析儀之引進與初步測試。 
3. 利用兔子視網膜神經節細胞電刺激模式，建立了視網膜電刺激模型。 
4. 視網膜晶片輸出電極金突(gold bump)表面處理。 
5. 先天性視網膜缺陷大鼠(RCS rat)電生理刺激。 
6. 紅外線刺激迷你猪視網膜生物相容性測試。 
7. 視網膜晶片透明電極專利申請。 
8. 論文發表於國際學術期刊：Y.T. Yang, P.K.Lin, C. Wan, W.C. Yang, L.J. Lin, C.Y. 
Wu, C.C. Chiao. 2011. Responses of rabbit retinal ganglion cells to subretinal electrical 
stimulation using a silicon-based microphotodiode array. Investigative Ophthalmology 
& Visual Science 52(13): 9353-61. 
9. International Conference on Neuroprosthetic Device, 2011. C.C. Chou and P.K. Lin.
Design of a solar-cell powered CMOS implantable chip for subretinal prostheses.  
10. SEMBA, 2011. P.K. Lin, C.C. Chiao, Y. Chang, C.Y. Wu. The long-term 
electroretinography results from a subretinal microphotodiode array implanted to 
macaca cyclopis.  
11. SEMBA, 2012. P.K. Lin, C.C. Chen, H.M. Chen, C.H. Kuan, C.Y. Wu. 
Cryo-focused ion beam system for biological imaging. 
12. ARVO, 2011. Yin-Peng Chen and Chuan-Chin Chiao. Functional expression of 
ionotropic glutamate receptors in the rabbit retinal ganglion cell. 52:1167 
 
二、技術創新方面 
1. 新型電路設計，專利申請中。 
2. 透明電極用於視網膜刺激，專利申請中。 
3. 相關專利對於未來生醫產業有幫助效益。 
 
三、社會影響方面 
1. 新型晶片的設計成功，將來可為許多色素性視網膜病變的病患提供了新的治療方向
與希望。 
 
 26
（英文）We propose a system architecture and its operational method 
which can be applied to a solar-powered artificial retinal prosthesis. 
The system includes solar cells, image sensor, and background current 
removal unit. Retinal chips constructed base on the proposed system 
and method can be implanted in the eye and provide functional 
electrical stimulation to restore the patients’ visual ability. 
In the proposed retinal chip, we separate solar cell region and 
image sensor region. We use strong background IR light as the source 
of the solar cells so that the solar cells could generate large supply 
current. Image is transmitted by weaker light of any wavelength other 
than IR. Because the allowable space for implantation in the eye is 
small and the chip must be small, the solar cell region and the image 
sensor region cannot be placed too far away. Therefore, it is extremely 
difficult to project the IR solely on the solar cell region without
intersecting image sensor region. To overcome this problem, a 
background removal unit is adopted to cancel or remove the 
background light induced photocurrent in the image sensor. The 
background removal unit could be realized by optical filters, 
photocurrent cancellation circuits, or other possible methods. The IR 
can be replaced by any other specified wavelength, any specified 
ranges of wavelength, or specified polarity of polarized lights while 
light as the image source can be replaced by lights other than that 
specified wavelength, that specified ranges of wavelength, or that 
specified polarity of polarized lights. 
產業別 
植入式醫療元件、太陽能電池 
 
技術/產品應用範圍 
應用產品：人工視網膜、弱視輔具 
 
技術移轉可行性及預期
效益 
本專利所針對之醫療器材為針對色素性視網膜退化(Retinitis 
Pigmentosa, RP)與老年黃斑退化(Age-Related Macular 
Degeneration, AMD)這兩種疾病所發開。RP為遺傳性疾病，目前
沒有可以醫治的方法。AMD與老化有關，隨著世界人口老化的趨
勢，AMD之病患會越來越多，技術轉移的機會也相對越來越高。
以下是美國，日本，中國等市場分析，來評估技術轉移的效益: 
(1) 美國:本專利所針對的應用為人工視網膜系統，與於高價醫療器
材；美國為醫療器材最大之市場，且屬於已開發富裕國家，有
 28
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表 
日期：101年 2 月 23 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：邁向人體試驗之植入式人工視網膜系統之研發與動物
實驗驗證－子計畫三：新穎透明電極於下視網膜植入式電子眼系
統之體外與體內生物效應之研究(1/3) 
計畫主持人：林伯剛 
計畫編號：NSC100-2220-E-010-001-   領域：醫學工程 
（中文）透明導電材料擴大視網膜晶片刺激電極 
研發成果名稱 （英文）Transparent electrode for a retinal prosthesis 
成果歸屬機構 交通大學 發明人 (創作人) 吳重雨、林伯剛 
（中文） 
 
 
 
 技術說明 
（英文） 
產業別 
植入式醫療元件 
技術/產品應用範圍 
應用產品：人工視網膜、弱視輔具 
技術移轉可行性及預期
效益 
 
     註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
 
 
 2
 
二、與會心得 
    The plenary lecture associated with Ludwig von Salmann prize, introduced by my previous advisor 
Professor Peter Gouras and addressed by the world renowned Dr. Eberhart Zrenner was the major target 
of my personal research interest. The topic is “Restoring vision in patients blind from hereditary retinal 
degeneration - Results from a clinical trial with subretinal electronic implant Alpha IMS”. 
    This plenary lecture showed the long-term progression of developing a subretinal electronic implant for 
more than 15 years from rationale establishment to human trial in this German group. Dr Zrenner is among 
the pioneers of artificial electronic retina (AER)., who is an electronic engineer and then became also an eye 
doctor. The core design from Zrenner is different from other major groups of AER. Their device is implanted 
into subretinal space, similar to our own design in Taiwan. But this Alpha IMS sill needs outside power input. 
The advantage of subretinal implant is obvious compared to currently marked Second Sight epirteinal 
implant. The stimulation is more physiological and no need of external goggle for image sensing and 
transmission. Thus no head position change for perceiving is necessary. However, this design still needs 
power cable. 
    The uniqueness of the plenary lecture is that the outcomes from those patients (more than 10 now) 
receiving the implant seem better than the second sight device. They now also have subfoveal implantation, 
which makes restoring better. Furthermore, a presumed micro-saccade is postulated for the manifestation of 
this device. They also utilized MEA for the investigation of implant, which is also important in glaucoma 
mechanism study.  
    My poster “Multiple Electrode Array Investigating Retina Prosthesis” is posted on time. The content of 
the poster abstract is as followed.  
    Multiple electrode array (MEA) investigation for retina is an effective method to acquire in vitro ERG 
and ganglion cells responses. It can detect the responses of retina, which is triggered by an overriding retinal 
prosthesis. Thus the function of a retinal prosthesis can be verified more efficiently in vitro through a series 
of stimulation.  
    We designed and fabricated several types of micro photodiode array as retinal prosthesis, with solar 
cells, biphasic electric output, divisional power supply, biocompatible electrodes, etc.. We build up a 
64-channel MEA apparatus with different microelectrode sizes.  
    New Zealand White Rabbit retina was dissected and put onto a microelectrode chamber with ganglion 
cells facing the microelectrodes. The retinal prosthesis then was placed on the dissected retina, with 
prosthetic output electrodes facing the retina. The MEA chamber was infused with physiological solution. 
The retina was bleached first, and different light stimulation was projected through MEA and retina to the 
prosthesis. The neuronal responses of the triggered retina was recorded and analyzed.   
 4
 
FW: ISER 2012 - Your Late Abstract Submission 
 
寄件者： Lin PK (pklin123@hotmail.com) 
寄件日期： 2012年7月3日 上午 06:07:54
收件者： afusui@hotmail.com
 
 
Date: Wed, 16 May 2012 20:43:55 +0200 
To: pklin123@hotmail.com 
From: iser2012@abstractserver.com 
Subject: ISER 2012 - Your Late Abstract Submission 
 
Dear Po-Kang Lin, 
 
Thank you for submitting a late abstract [MULTIPLE ELECTRODE ARRAY INVESTIGATION FOR RETINAL 
PROSTHESIS] to the XX Biennial Meeting of the International Society for Eye Research which will take place in Berlin,
Germany from July 21-25, 2012.  
 
For future reference, please keep your abstract reference number: 
 
A-412-0009-01274 
 
 
Thank you again for your contribution. 
 
 
Best regards, 
 
The ISER 2012 Abstract Team 
 
For technical questions regarding your abstract submission please contact iser2012@abstractserver.com 
 
For all other queries, please contact the secretariat at iser2012@kenes.com  
 
Abstract submission system for Late Breakers: http://www.abstractserver.com/iser2012/lb/  
 Instructions on how to prepare posters can be found on the meeting website at this direct link: 
http://www2.kenes.com/ISER/SCIENTIFIC/Pages/InstructionsforPresenters.aspx#poster. Please be sure to keep to 
these specifications.  
  
Please do visit the meeting website at www.kenes.com/iser regularly for any updates or changes to the Scientific 
Program. 
  
REGISTRATION TO THE MEETING 
The presenting author Po-Kang Lin must register for the Meeting.  
  
If you have not already registered and paid your registration fees you are requested to do so online via the link: 
http://www2.kenes.com/iser/registration/Pages/Registration.aspx.  
Only abstracts of participants who have paid their fees by Wednesday, May 30, 2012 will be included in the program.  
  
We also encourage you to book your accommodation promptly, as availability may be limited in some hotels. Click here
for more information on available hotels for the congress.  
  
FURTHER INFORMATION  
For technical questions regarding your abstract submission please contact iser2012@abstractserver.com. For all other 
queries, please do contact the Secretariat at iser@kenes.com. 
  
Yours sincerely,  
  
ISER 2012 Abstract Team on behalf of the Scientific Program Committee 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/02/29
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫三：新穎透明電極於下視網膜植入式電子眼系統之體外與體內生物效
應之研究(1/3)
計畫主持人: 林伯剛
計畫編號: 100-2220-E-010-001- 學門領域: 智慧電子科技計畫-整合型學術研
究計畫
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
