I. INTRODUCTION
This paper presents a statistical estimation of
source location in the presence of ocean acoustic
parameter environmental uncertainty. Many
Bayesian approaches for increasing robustness
to ocean environmental uncertainty have been
developed1–7. Averaging over a uniform prior
distribution of environmental parameters was
proposed earlier in [1, 2] as a method of improv-
ing robustness of source localization. Dosso
and Wilmut5,6 proposed a Bayesian focaliza-
tion to quantify source localization with envi-
ronmental uncertainty. In their Bayesian focal-
ization approach all source positions and en-
vironmental parameters are inverted at once.
For practical problems involving thousands of
source position, tracking is an efficient alterna-
tive. Kalman and particle filtering4,7 can be
used efficiently to track the source and geoa-
coustic parameters.
Estimation of uncertainty in environmental
parameters for a single range is well developed
using Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC)
Metropolis-Hasting sampling8–10. The proces-
sor derived in this paper translates the uncer-
tainty in environmental parameters, which for
example can be from a previous geoacoustic
inversion, to the uncertainty in replica fields
for matched-field source localization. The re-
sulting processor is a weighted sum of Bartlett
processors over the PPD of the environmental
parameters. We demonstrate the approach us-
ing the source tow data from the ASIAEX 2001
experiment8,11. Using the geoacoustic inversion
results for source localization is well known12,
the focus here is on the accompanying source
position uncertainty.
published in “Statistical estimation of source location
in presence of geoacoustic inversion uncertainty,” J.
Acoust. Soc. Am., 125(4):EL171–176, 2009.
II. THEORY
Figure 1 summarizes the statistical estima-
tion of source position using environmental in-
formation obtained from a previous geoacoustic
inversion.
A. Classical matched-field processor
The classical matched-field processor consists
of systematically placing a single frequency test
point source at each point of a search grid, com-
puting the acoustic field (replica) at all the el-
ements of the array and then correlating this
modeled field with the observed data from an
unknown source. In absence of data error and
error in estimating the environmental parame-
ter vector m, the correlation is maximum when
the test source location x is collocated with the
true source,
B(xj ; m̂,dj) = |w(xj ; m̂)Hdj |2
= w(xj ; m̂)HRjw(xj ; m̂) (1)
where dj denotes the observed data at time in-
dex j, m̂ an estimate of the parameter vector;
w(x; m̂) = d(x; m̂)/|d(x; m̂)| is the normalized
replica vector with the field solution d(x;m)
computed from a acoustic model using the en-
vironmental parameter vector m. When mul-
tiple snapshots are available, we assume that
the signal source term can vary across snap-
shots, whereas the error power is the same for
all snapshots. Then the observed data are ef-
ficiently expressed as a data covariance matrix
Rj = 〈djdHj 〉.13
B. Posterior probability distribution of source
position
The uncertainty in environmental parame-
ters is translated to the uncertainty in replica
fields for matched-field source localization8.
The PPD of the source position at time j given
PPD of xj as:
p(xj |dj) = p(xj)p(dj)
∫
p(dj |m,xj)p(m|dg) dm
∝ p(xj)
K∑
k=1
1
φ(xj ;mk,dj)N
. (7)
where φ(xj ;mk,dj) is the Bartlett objective
function for an environmental parameter vector
mk sampled by a Markov chain Monte Carlo
(MCMC) algorithm. The statistical estimation
of source position is based on Eq. (7).
III. RESULTS
Data on a vertical line array from the ASI-
AEX 2001 East China Sea experiment in 106.5-
m water depth are used to illustrate the
approach8. First, an inversion was carried out
at source-receiver range of 1.7 km, indicated by
a circle of Fig. 1 (a). An environment with 13
unknown parameters with their search bounds
indicated in Fig. 2 (b) was estimated, includ-
ing geometrical, geoacoustic, and ocean sound
speed EOF coefficients8. The inversion was
based on a MCMC sampling giving samples
mk from which the PPD p(m|dg) could be es-
timated and subsequently used as prior infor-
mation for source localization with new data
dj . Based on Eq. (7), the samples mk corre-
sponding to a particular environment then are
combined with the source position data dj via
the objective function φ(xj ;mk,dj) for each
possible location xj . The prior distribution
p(xj) was assumed uniform with the depth-
range search interval. Summing over all sam-
ples gives the PPD of source location p(xj |dj).
To estimate statistically the source position
given the environmental information obtained
from the inversion, a measured data vector dj
is used where the source range was 2.5 km. The
source signal was a CW tone at 195 Hz. The
signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) was estimated to
be 16.3 dB using the ratio of the mean power
received in the signal frequency FFT bin and
the (assumed to be noise) power received out-
side this bin. The observed data cross spectral
density matrix R is normalized by the largest
eigenvalue of the matrix, so that the maximum
signal power is one. For simulation purposes,
the desired SNR is generated by varying the
noise variance νn according to the array SNR
definition8:
SNR = 10 log
1
νn
, where νn =
E
[||n||2]
N
. (8)
and n is the noise in the data (the array SNR
should not be confused with the element SNR
used in e.g. Ref. 5). Since noise only can be
added to the data, we only can lower the SNR
from the maximum of 16.3 dB.
The parameter uncertainties are mapped
through to the statistical estimation of source
localization using Eq. (7). The replica vec-
tor for a hypothesized source position x and
for each environmental parameter vector mk,
w(x;mk), is computed using the normal mode
propagation model SNAP14. Monte Carlo
subsampling8 of the geoacoustic inversion sam-
ples is used to evaluate Eq. (7) with K = 900.
The range-depth search grid spacing is 8 m in
range from 1500 to 3500 m and 1.4 m in depth
from 1 to 99 m.
Figure 3(a) shows the effect of the array SNR
on the PPD of source range and depth at a
source frequency of 195 Hz and range 2.5 km.
The intersection of the lines indicates the peak
of the PPD, the darkest region indicates the
50% highest posterior density (HPD) in which
the source falls given the observed data dj
and the environmental uncertainty. The range-
depth PPD for the various SNRs (Figs. 3(a-
1 to a-3)), show that the number of compet-
ing peaks increases as SNR decreases. Note
that the range-depth PPD for low SNR depends
on the noise realization. The benefit here is
not only do we have the maximum a posteriori
(MAP) estimate of source position but also the
FIG. 3. (a) Realizations of PPD of source range and depth for 195 Hz at 2.5 km range for three SNRs. Each
panel shows the maximum a posteriori (MAP) source position (intersection of thin lines) and the highest
posterior density (HPD) of source position [with 50% (dark), 75% and 99% (light)]. (b) Source position
uncertainty versus SNR for ranges 1.9 (+), 2.5 (◦), and 3.15 km (): (b-1) and (b-2) 90% credibility
interval (CI) and (b-3) probability of correct localization (PCL) in a region around the assumed source
position.
level of uncertainty.
The effect of SNR on the source position un-
certainties is displayed for three source ranges
in Fig. 3(b). The estimated SNRs in the ob-
served data for ranges of 1.9, 2.5 and 3.15 km
are 16.9, 16.3 and 15.2 dB, respectively (esti-
mated using adjacent bins, see above). In Fig.
3(b-1) and 3(b-2) the 90% credibility interval
(CI) extracted from the 1D marginal distribu-
tion is shown. At lower SNR, the noise is dom-
inating the uncertainty of source position. For
high SNR, the source position uncertainty will
not approach zero since uncertainty in the envi-
ronmental parameters will dominate. From the
PPD surfaces in Fig. 3(a) we can integrate a
region around the source position (an accept-
able region of 20 m in depth and 200 m in
range) obtaining the probability of correct lo-
calization PCL2 (this also has been termed in-
tegrated probability, IP5). The PCL increases
with SNR and tends to decrease with range.
As part of the experiment, a source tow from
1–3.7 km was performed. Using the estimated
geoacoustic parameters and their uncertainty
as well as the methodology above the MAP es-
timate of source position and the 90% CI is pre-
sented in Fig. 4(a–b). Furthermore, Fig. 4(c–
d) shows that as the SNR decreases so does the
PCL.
IV. SUMMARY
The source position estimation in the pres-
ence of ocean environment uncertainty is in-
vestigated using the ASIAEX 2001 source tow
data. A simulation shows that the noise dete-
riorates the localization performance at lower
SNR, while the uncertainty in the ocean envi-
ronment dominates at higher SNR. The con-
tinuous localization using the source tow data
indicates the localization uncertainty increases
with range and 1/SNR.
Acoust. Soc. Am. 125, 706–716 (2009).
11 C.-F. Huang, P. Gerstoft, and W.S. Hodgkiss,
“Uncertainty analysis in matched-field geoa-
coustic inversions,” J. Acous. Soc. Am. 119,
197–207 (2006).
12 D. F. Gingras and P. Gerstoft, “Inversion for
geometric and geoacoustic parameters in shal-
low water: experimental results,” J. Acous. Soc.
Am. 97, 3589–3598 (1995).
13 P. Gerstoft and C.F. Mecklenbra¨uker, “Ocean
acoustic inversion with estimation of a posteriori
probability distributions,” J. Acoust. Soc. Am.
104, 808–819 (1998).
14 F.B. Jensen and M.C. Ferla, SNAP: the
SACLANTCEN normal-mode acoustic propaga-
tion model, SACLANT Undersea Research Cen-
tre, SM–121, La Spezia, Italy (1979).
