2. 計畫緣由與目的 
 
良率(Yield)與可靠度(Reliability)為影響半導體公司的營運利潤的兩大
因素。提昇良率將相對增加公司的營收﹐滿意的可靠度將降低產品的退貨率及提
昇公司信譽。對半導體產品而言，產品的生命週期，一直是業界關注所在。近年
來由於消費者的消費意識提高，對於產品的效率及品質並重，使業者不僅要在產
品設計上下功夫，更要在製程上努力才能在如此競爭的市場上與人一爭長短。壓
力測試(Stress Test)或壓測，就是提供給業者一種認證及提升產品可靠度的途
徑之一。 
半導體產品很容易在用過一段不確定的時間後就會發生故障，我們稱之為
早期生命故障 (Early-life Failure)， 壓測就是為了解決此種缺陷而發展出來
的方法；以確定這些可能有缺陷的產品在壓測的過程中加速老化，並早早被刪除
掉，以免這些有缺陷產品流入客戶手中。目前半導體業者最常採用篩選
(Screening)的方法為高電壓(Short-duration High-Voltage, HV)、崩應
(Burn-in, High-Temperature, HT)、及高電壓崩應(HVHT)。(所謂高電壓(高壓)
或高溫係指較正常操作條件稍高的電壓或溫度)。崩應被認為最有效篩選的方法
之一。經過崩應過後的產品，幾乎就是可靠度的保證，確保好的產品之生命週期，
並不會輕易故障。但因其無法確定產品在高溫時，是否有真正達到崩應的效果。
而且﹐其昂貴的設備費用與冗長的崩應時間造成生產成本的增加﹐其幅度在5%
至40%間﹐視崩應時間、IC的品質要求、及產品的複雜度而定。因而發展低廉的
壓測方法以改善CMOS ICs的可靠度與品質，是目前半導體業者所須努力的終極目
標之一。 
近期的研究結果發現﹐高電壓篩選能有效刪除因Oxide defects造成早期生
命故障。高壓篩選的目的在於提供比崩應較經濟有效的方法來改善CMOS IC的品
質。高電壓加上Iddq己被公認為增強CMOS IC可靠度的有效測試方法。在測試過
程中﹐我們可透過在Power Supply的Leakage Current將可能的缺陷找出。該方
法很成功地增強digital CMOS IC可靠度。然而﹐它卻無法提昇類比/混合訊號 
(Analog/Mixed-signal) CMOS ICs的可靠度。因此﹐業者仍採用成本較高的崩應
壓測。如何設計能完全壓測(Fully Stressable)的類比電路? 及如何分析電路的
可壓測度(Stressability)? 如何對電路作有效的壓測﹖此類的知識需要作詳盡
的研究與發展才會真正地降低壓測的成本。 
目前採用崩應壓測方式來確保產品之可靠度已經使用過一段時日了，是否
產品在高溫時有真正達到崩應的效果，最近常被業者拿出來討論。發展經濟有效
的崩應方法已是刻不容緩。崩應時間的長短將影響壓測的成本與品質。過久的崩
應時間將增加成本及turn-around time﹐過短的崩應時間將影響產品之可靠度。
目前崩應時間的訂定取決以統計的結果。在某一高溫下﹐如何有系統與正確的估
計某一電路對特定的可靠度所需的崩應時間﹐為一個很重要的研究課題。有些崩
應設備具有測驗功能的烘烤爐﹐它可監測到崩應板上所有元件的狀況﹐可分擔測
(between Gate and Drain), GB (Gate and Substrate), and GS (Gate and Source). 
Breakdown in the region GD causes a gate oxide short between gate and drain, so do 
the other regions. Let VGD, VGB, and VGS, be the voltages across the three regions, 
respectively. By the definition of digital stress test, a transistor is fully stressed when 
the voltages VGD, VGB, and VGS are equal to Vstress. For analog circuits, the voltages 
VGD, VGB, and VGS may be different due to the work function difference and/or the 
circuit topology. Obviously, the digital stress condition cannot be properly applied for 
analog circuits. Duration of the applied stress voltage can be used to control the 
time-to-breakdown. Due the circuit topology, some regions may need to be stressed 
much longer time than other regions. Therefore, it is necessary to derive the required 
stress times of all regions. 
 Consider the delay circuit in Figure 3, consisting of 6 transistors and each 
transistor has three regions, i.e., a total of 18 regions. Three stress vectors, 
(VX,Vin+,Vin-)=(0,0,0), (1,0,1), and (1,1,0), were generated, where 0 and 1 represents 
the applied voltages of ground and Vdd, respectively. By calculating the stress time for 
each region, we sort the results based on the column patterns and their corresponding 
stress times [6]. Two columns are grouped together if they have the same column 
patterns with the same stress time. All regions in the delay circuit are collapsed into 
only 5 groups, C1~C4, and the regions contained in each group are listed in Figure 
4(a). Results show that the regions in each group are fully stressed at least by a vector. 
This implies that all regions in the delay circuit are fully stressed by the selected stress 
vectors. Similarly, the test results for other components are illustrated in Figure 3. 
Thus, all components in PLL are all stressable by the selected vectors.  
M0 M1
M2M3
M4 M5
Vout+
Vout-
Vin+
Vin-
Vx
 
Figure 3. Delay Cell & Its Inputs/Outputs Relation. 
 
Consider the oscillator consisting of three delay circuits, namely, DC-1, DC-2, 
and DC-3, as shown in Figure 1(c). As discussed previously, the delay circuit is fully 
stressable by the selected stress vectors (VX,Vin+,Vin-)=(0,0,0), (1,0,1), and (1,1,0). By 
the I/O relation in Figure 3, the stress vectors applied to DC-1 are re-generated and 
then applied to DC-3. Thus, both DC-1 and DC-3 are fully stressable. However, the 
stress vector (0,0,0) cannot be generated from DC-1, i.e., DC-2 is stressed by the 
vectors {(0,1,1),(1,0,1), (1,1,0)}. As a result, the regions in group C3, in Figure 4(a), 
cannot be fully stressed. In order to fully stress DC-2, an additional stress vector 
(0,1,1) is applied to DC-1. As shown in the above table, the stress vector (0,0,0) can 
Both modified PLL and original PLL were implemented with the TSMC 0.35 
um digital process and 3.3 V supply voltage. Both have the reference frequency of 
25MHz and 100fp output loading. The divider used in both circuits is 32-bits. 
Experimental results are shown in Figure 8. 
 
Yield and reliability are two factors affecting the profitability of semiconductor 
manufacturing. This paper demonstrates that a CMOS  PLL may pass the Iddq-tests 
in the presence of gate-oxide defects. This may cause low reliable PLL. Therefore, 
semiconductor manufacturers employ the expensive burn-in tests to enhance 
gate-oxide reliability. This study shows that, with appropriate selection of stress 
vector, the modified PLL can achieve a full stressability. In other words, the PLL can 
achieve a full stressability without using the expensive burn-in test process. In fact, 
those circuits containing analog behavior will have the same problems. They may also 
pass the Iddq tests in the presence of gate-oxide defects. This leads to a very 
interesting topic for future development. 
 
4. 結論與自評 
 
We are the first group in the world developing the stress test methodology for 
reliability enhancement. Reliability is a very important issue for the safety-critical 
applications. In fact, our preliminary results have been appreciated by Bosch, 
Enhancement,” Proc. Great Lake Symp. On VLSI, Boston, MA, pp. 322-327, 
April, 2004. 
[17] Wey, C.L., abd M.Y. Liu, “Stress Test Pattern Generation for Analog CMOS 
ICs,” Proc. of 15th VLSI/CAD, Taiwan, August, 2004. 
[18] Wey, C,L, and M.Y. Liu, “Burn-In Stress Test of Analog ICs,” Proc. of Asian 
Test Symp., Taiwan, pp.360-365, November, 2004. 
[19] Wey, C.L., Liu, M.Y., and S. Quan, “Stress Test of CMOS SRAMs for 
Reliability Enhancement,” Proc. of IEEE International Mixed-signal Test 
Workshop, Cannes, France, June, 2005. 
[20] M.-Y. Liu, “Extreme-Voltage Stress Tests of analog CMOS ICs for Gate-Oxide 
Reliability Enhancement,” M.S. Thesis, Department of Electrical Engineering, 
National Central University, June 2005. 
[21] C.-S. Huang and C.L. Wey, “Reliability Enhancement of CMOS PLLs,” 
submitted to 17th VLSI/CAD Symposium, Taiwan, August 2006. 
[22] C.L.Wey and C.-S. Huang, “Design of Reliable CMOS Phase-Locked Loops,” 
submitted to IEEE International Conference on Electronics, Circuits, and 
Systems, Nice, France, December 2006. 
[23] C.-S. Huang, “Design and Analysis of Reliable CMOS PLLs,” M.S. Thesis, 
Department of Electrical Engineering, National Central University, June 2006. 
