Digest Journal of Nanomaterials and Biostructures           Vol. 5, No 2, April –June 2010, p. 433 – 439 
 
 
                                                
 
 
THE USE OF SOFT-LITHOGRAPHY TECHNIQUE ASSOCIATED WITH 
SEMICONDUCTOR LIGHT SOURCE FOR THE NEW OPTICAL DESIGN 
 
 
W.C. CHANGa,*, K.F. YARNb, W.C. CHUANGc 
aDepartment of Electronic Engineering, Southern Taiwan University of 
Technology, Taiwan 710, ROC 
bDepartment of Electronic Engineering, Far East University, Tainan, Taiwan 744, 
ROC 
cDepartment of Electro-Optics Engineering, National Formosa University, Huwei, 
Yulin, Taiwan, ROC 
 
 
This study proposes a new type diffraction optics element (DOE) which combines 
semiconductor laser and polymer-based DOE processing technology into a single 
optoelectronic polymer device. To directly combine diffractive VCSEL (Vertical-Cavity 
Surface-Emitting Laser) with DOE, DOE surface profile can be integrated on the top of 
VCSEL utilizing polymer gratings by soft-lithography technique. Such a new type of 
polymer-based DOE-VCSEL can control spatial distribution of emitting laser energy and 
output angle. Taking the commercial DVD pickup head for example, this proposal 
combines discrete laser source and two optical elements into an integrated optical device, 
DOE-VCSEL, which can divide a single laser beam into three beams in different 
directions and control the angles and energy distribution of laser beams. Through the 
innovative development, it can be predicted that the optical loss and traveling distance are 
decreased by shrinking the device volume. 
 
(Received April 1, 2010; accepted May 3, 2010) 
 
Keywords: Diffraction Optics Element (DOE), Vertical-Cavity Surface-Emitting Laser  
         (VCSEL), polymer gratings, soft-lithography technique 
 
 
1. Introduction 
 
Recently, the rapid advancement in the development of semiconductor light sources and 
the continuous miniaturization process has made micro-optics one of the fastest developing fields 
of micro-technology. Among various kinds of micro-optical elements, diffractive optical elements 
(DOEs) are especially attractive because of their functional flexibilities in handling wave-front 
conversion as well as their planar, compact and lightweight natures which makes them suitable for 
integration with micro-electro-mechanical devices (MEMS) [1]. DOEs also have the nature 
advantages including low noise, large spatial bandwidth, parallel transmission of light, 
light-solving, light-gathering, and light-splitting capabilities. In spite of the rapid DOE 
development, still only a few methods demonstrate the potential to fulfill such high requirements 
[2]. The most advanced methods are based on the semiconductor processing technology and can be 
broadly divided into two major groups: (1) multi-mask binary method, sometimes referred to as 
binary optics [3] and (2) analog method [4]. 
In practical applications, polymer-based optical components have a great deal of promise 
for use in electro-optical devices, because polymers have some advantages, including light weight, 
cost-effectiveness and design freedom. There have been a number of reports on DOEs with 
 
*Corresponding author: wcchang_710@yahoo.com.tw 
435 
 
aperture is assumed to place in the ( ηξ , ) plane and is shown in the +z direction. The wave field 
across the (x,y) plane which is parallel to the ( ηξ , ) plane at the normal z distance could be 
calculated. A simple and usable expression approximation for the distance ro1 between P1 and P0 is 
introduced. According to the Huygens-Fresnel principle, the aperture distribution can be expressed 
as [7] 
                (1) 
where θ is the angle between the outward normal and the vector from P0 to P1. The cosθterm is 
given by 
cosθ= z/r01                               (2) 
and the Huygens-Fresnel principle therefore can be rewritten as 
             (3) 
by introducing ro1 intro the eq.( ), the resulting U(x,y) field at (x,y) can be given as  
         (4) 
where the finite limits of the aperture in the U( ηξ , ) definition have been incorporated in 
accordance with the usual assumed boundary conditions. 
 
 
Fig.3. Schematic process of periodical photoresist grating. 
 
 
   In this study, the design principle is based on the binary Dammann phase fourier grating [8]. 
Through the Malab software calculation, the DOE profile on the outward surface can be predicted 
and applied on the top of VCSEL structure which will result in new splitting DOE-VCSEL 
structure. Dammann grating is assumed that the grating does not absorb the input light but 
modulate the light phase and therefore can enhance the efficiency of light diffraction. The typical 
binary Dammann grating can be used on the multi-beam splitting applications. The function of 
tunneling amplitude F(x) is expressed as 
 
437 
 
 
Fig.5. Final polymer-based DOE-VCSEL device. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
Fig.6. (a) 3D Surface polymer gratings under AFM measurement. (b) Step height of three 
different gratings under AFM measurement. 
 
 
