1 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫   ■成果報告            
顆粒形狀對乾燥顆粒混合物分層效應影響之研究與應用（2/2） 
(On grain-shape induced particle segregation in dry 
granular mixtures under vertical shaking (2/2))	  
 
計畫類別：■ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 100 – 2628 – E - 006 - 008 – 
執行期間： 100 年 08 月 01 日至 101 年 07 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：方中  副教授 
計畫參與人員：林永鎔(博士班兼任研究助理) 
              李達銘、許配慈 (碩士班兼任研究助理) 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  ■□完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
■已發表國際期刊論文一份 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、列
管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          ■涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，■一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：國立成功大學土木工程學系 
 
中   華   民   國  101  年  06  月  30  日 
 
3 
 
英文摘要 
Key	  words：granular mixture, particle segregation, grain-shape difference	  
	  
	   	   	   	   Particle segregation induced by grain-shape difference in dry granular mixtures is 
systematically investigated by using numerical simulations and experimental studies. In particular, 
specific 1-D and 2-D shaking experiments (i.e., simple harmonic oscillation experiments) of 
granular mixtures consisting of particles with different shapes are conducted to visualize 
qualitatively and quantitatively the segregation phenomena. By comparing the experimental 
outcomes with the numerical simulations obtained by using the proposed quasi-DEM method, with 
which polygonal particles can efficiently be accomplished in the simulation package of EDEM, a 
certain critical factors which influence the phenomena of particle shape segregation can be 
identified.	  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
 (a) 
 (c) 
 
(b) 
Figure 1. Particle segregation in different 
occasions. (a) Volcanic deposit (from 
Hutter), (b) debris deposit in Taiwan 
(from 財團法人地工技術研究發展基
金會), (c) particle size segregation in 
laboratory (from Prof. Breu). 
 
⎯ difference in particle size, 
⎯ difference in particle shape, and 
⎯ difference in particle density, 
⎯ difference in particle resilience, 
which was first summarized by Williams (1976). Naturally, not all these four factors are equally 
important, and the most important one is the size difference between different sorts of particles. 
Many efforts, including theories, mathematical models and experiments have been conducted to 
clarify the critical factors that govern this phenomenon. Although the strong dependency of the 
results on the external driving excitations makes it difficult to mark some obvious and general 
conclusions, a short but comprehensive summary is given in the following. 
 
Vertical Shaking. A certain amount of solid spherical particles with the same properties but two 
different diameters are placed in a 2D/3D container, which is set in simple harmonic motion 
vertically. It is found that larger particles move gradually upward toward the free surface, while the 
smaller particles move downward toward the bottom of the container (see e.g. Williams 1987, 
Duran et al. 1994 and Liffman et al. 2001 ). Numerical simulations using Monte Carlo method or 
DEM have been extensively accomplished and the results show good agreements with experimental 
observations. In fact, the separation/segregation speed depends significantly on the non-dimensional 
parameter Γ, which is a measure of the relative significance of the inertial force induced by the 
driving external excitations and the gravity force. Depending upon the values of Γ, particle size 
7 
 
larger but lighter particles move toward the boundary of the disk, whilst smaller but heavier 
particles are in the center of the disk (BNE effect). Such a phenomenon was first investigated 
theoretically by use of the thermodynamics in Asakura & Oosawa’s paper in 1954. Recently, 
Aumaître et al. (2003) used the model of order parameter to study the phenomenon of crystallization, 
and extended their model to investigate the particle segregations induced by size and density 
differences in swirling motion. 
 
Rotating drum experiments. A rotating drum consists of two parallel circular disks with a specific 
gap filled with granular mixtures. It is a convenient experimental device to illustrate different flow 
regimes of granular materials. Depending upon the rotating speed of the drum, different flow 
regimes from avalanche, continuous flow to rigid body motion can be visualized (see e.g. Dury et al. 
1998, Duran 2000, Ristow 1998 and Gray & Hutter 1997). It is found that within the proper rotation 
speeds the radial particle shape segregation appears: larger particles tend to move toward the 
boundary of the drum, whilst smaller particles gather themselves in the core region. In comparison 
with the experiments mentioned above, the segregation speed in this kind of experiments is rather 
fast: almost after one evolution of the drum the segregation starts to be visible (Clément et al. 1995 
and Cantelaube & Bideau 1995). Numerical simulations using DEM method have also been carried 
out and the results show good agreements with the experimental outcomes (Dury & Ristow 1997). 
 
On the other hand, when the granular mixture consists of the particles with the same size but 
different densities, heavier particles tends to gather themselves near the center of the drum, whilst 
the lighter particles move toward the boundary of the drum. The segregation speed and quality are 
more efficient than those induced by the size difference, and increase as the density ratio increases 
(see e.g. Ristow 1994). In view of the results from the numerical simulations and experimental 
observations it is concluded that in the rotating drums smaller and denser particles segregate 
inwards, whilst larger and lighter particles outwards (Eggert & Wu 2000). 
 
Axial segregation. A 3D elongated rotating drum is realized by increasing the dimension of 2D 
rotating drum along its axial direction. Particle segregations appearing in this device was first 
reported by Oyama in 1939. The 3D drum is filled with a binary dry granular mixture consisting of 
the particles with two different diameters till the middle. Initially all particles are distributed  ㄧ
niformly. The 3D drum starts to rotate along its axial direction. It is found that smaller and larger 
particles tend to gather themselves into a serial of interlaced disks which are orthogonal to the axial 
axis. However, the formation of such a pattern and the number of the interlaced disks depend on the 
rotation speed and duration (Hill & Kakalios 1994 and Hill et al. 1997). Several models such as 
those proposed by de Gennes & Savage (1995), Choo et al. (1997) and Aranson & Tsimring (the 
latter two models are based on the theory of traveling wave) have been proposed for this 
phenomenon; however, its fundamental physical mechanisms are yet clear. The information of the 
segregation due to the density difference, including numerical simulations and experiments, is still 
missing. 
9 
 
(二) 研究方法及文獻回顧 
 
As discussed before, particle segregations induced by the size and density differences have 
been extensively studied due to their importance and practical applications in industry. However, 
from the view point of practical application, there remain also the segregation problems due to the 
shape difference (see e.g. Duran 2000), whose physical mechanism is yet clear. The underlying 
reasons, as to our knowledge, may be (i) segregation problems due to size and density differences 
are relatively obvious, for which the experiments and numerical simulations are easily conducted 
and performed, (ii) almost all numerical schemes for granular matters, including MD and DEM, are 
capable of handling spherical or elliptic particles, but cannot deal with particles with arbitrary 
shape.  
 
Recently, from the idea of operation research, Prof. Lee and I have proposed a fast and 
powerful numerical scheme which can easily generate particles with arbitrary shapes in the 
simulations. This opens a new area in the computational granular dynamics and puts us now in an 
available position to investigate the particle segregations induced by grain-shape difference in a 
systematic manner (see Sect. 12.1 for details). This is – broadly speaking – the goal of the proposal: 
to study experimentally and numerically the particle segregations induced by particle- shape 
difference in dry granular mixtures. 
 
Since it is not possible to study the particle shape segregations for arbitrary particle shapes, 
judicious criteria have to be used to illuminate the most fundamental and critical factors affecting 
the phenomenon. Specially, we should consider dry granular mixtures consisting of two different 
sorts of particles: spherical particles and polygons with the same volume under vertical shaking 
condition, for the results of such driving excitation may more easily be isolated, and try to clarify 
the following issues:   
 
(1) Does particle shape segregation occur? If so, is there any relation between the number of 
the side of the polygons and the segregation speed? What are the differences between the 
particle size/density-induced segregations and the shape-induced segregations? 
(2) Is it possible to find out some quantitative measures which can index the influences of the 
shape-difference in particle segregations? 
(3) Do BNE and RBNE effects occur when the particle shapes are different? If so, which one 
is relatively significant? 
(4) Is it possible to find a way/device to reduce/eliminate the particle shape segregations in an 
industrial mixer?  
 
Numerical simulations and experimental investigations will be accomplished to attack this problem. 
 
11 
 
 
Figu 
 
the simple harmonic motions with the prescribed amplitude and frequency, as shown in Fig. 2b. A 
high-speed CCD camera is used to capture the instantaneous flow pattern of the grains (see Fig. 
2c).1 Through the image-processing procedure a certain quantitative indices like the segregation 
speed, the speed of the intruder can be calculated. These data should be compared with numerical 
results. The experimental study follows essentially the setup used in numerical simulations. 
 
Working program: 
In concreto, the following steps of analysis are proposed: 
 
• Experimental setup and testing. This step is crucial and requires much attention. 
 
• Numerical studies for vertical shaking with free surface 
- Generation of polyhedrons and spherical particles in the numerical scheme 
- Numerical simulations of segregation induced by a single polyhedron intruder 
 
- Numerical simulations of segregation in a dry granular mixture consisting of two kinds of particles 
with different shapes 
- Comparisons with numerical and experimental results 
- Identifications of the important factors affecting particle shape segregations 
 
• Experimental studies for vertical shaking with free surface 
-Experimental observation of segregation induced by a single polyhedron intruder  
-Experimental observation of segregation in a dry granular mixture consisting of two kinds of 
particles with different shapes 
-Image processing procedures to obtain the quantitative descriptions of segregation  
 
• Incorporation of a certain mechanics-consideration into the simulation scheme. This should be 
accomplished to reduce the discrepancies between the numerical and experimental results. After 
this stage we can then extend the study to 3D problems, problems in rotating circumstance and 
problems with/without interstitial fluids. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
1 The high-speed CCD camera has been purchased through the project of the college of engineering at NCKU with the 
resolution of 1280×1024 pixels at 2000 frame/sec.  
13 
 
and condensation, Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 3423 (2001). 
Hutter, K. Order and disorder in granular materials: experiment and theory. In: Kinetic and 
Continuum Theories of Granular and Porous media (Hutter, K. and Wilmánski, K., eds.), 
Springer Verlag, Heidelberg, pp. 1-65 (2000) 
Hutter, K., Rajagopal, K.R. On flows of granular materials. Continuum Mech. Thermodyn. 6, pp. 
81-139 (1994) 
Jakob, M., Hungr, O.: Debris-flow Hazards and Related Phenomena. Springer-Verlag  
New York Heidelberg (2005) 
Knight, J.B., Jaeger, H.M., Nagel, S.R. Vibration-induced size separation in granular material:the 
convection connection, Phys. Rev. Lett. 70, 3728 (1993). 
Liffman, K. et al., A segregation mechanism in a vertically shaken bed, Granular Matter 3, 205 
(2001). 
Middleton, G.V., (1970): Experimental studies related to problem of flysh sedimentation. In: Flysh 
Sedimentology in North America (Lajoie, J. ed.), Business and Economics Science Ltd., 
Toronton, pp. 253-272. 
Middleton, G.V.; Hampton, M.A., (1976): Subaqueoes sediment transport and deposition by 
sediment gravity flows. In: Marine Sediment Transport and Environmental Management 
(Stanley, D.J. and Swift, D.J.P. eds.), Wiley, pp. 197-218. 
Naylor, M.A., (1980): The origin of inverse grading in muddy debris flow deposits - A review. J. 
Sedimentary Petrology 50, pp. 1111-1116. 
Oyama, Y.,Bull. Inst. Phys. Chem. Res. Rep. 5, 600 (1939). 
Pudasaini, S.P., Hutter, K.: Avalanche Dynamics. Springer-Verlag New York Heidelberg (2007) 
Rao, K.K., Nott, P.R.: An Introduction to Granular Flow. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge 
(2008) 
Reis, P.M., Mullin, T. Granular segregation as a critical phenomenon, Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 244301 
(2002). 
Revuzhenko, A.F.: Mechanics of Granular Media. Springer-Verlag New York Heidelberg (2006) 
Ristow, G. Partical mass segregation in a two-dimensional rotating drum, Europhys. Lett. 28, 97 
(1994). 
Rosato et al., Why the Brazil nuts are on top: size segregation of particulate matter by shaking, 
Phys. Rev. Lett. 58, 1038 (1987). 
Sallenger, A.H., (1979): Inverse grading and hydraulic equivalence in grain-flow deposits. J. 
Sedimentary Petrology, 49, pp. 553-563. 
Schnautz, T., Brito, R., Kruelle, C.A., and I. Rehberg, A horizontal Brazil-nut effect and its reverse, 
Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 028001 (2005). 
Shinbrot, T., Muzzio, F.J. Reverse buoyancy in shaken granular beds, Phys. Rev. Lett. 81, 4365 
(1998). 
Takahashi, T.: Debris Flow: Mechanics, Prediction and Countermeasures. Taylor & Francis, New 
York (2007) 
Wang, Y., Hutter, K. Granular material theories revisited. In: Geomorphological Fluid Mechanics 
15 
 
(三) 結果與討論 
 
 
(Please	  refer	  to	  the	  two	  papers	  listed	  below	  for	  further	  information)	  
17 
 
 (四) 計畫結果自評 
    Grain-­‐shape	  (granulometry)	   induced	  particle	  segregation	  is	  an	  interesting	  subject	   in	  both	  its	  
wide	   applications	   in	   industry	   and	   in	   its	   own	   weight.	   Numerical	   simulations	   based	   on	   the	   DEM	  
technique	   has	   been	   employed	   to	   attack	   this	   problem,	   in	   particular	   the	   following	   two	   specific	  
problems	  which	  arise	  in	  industry	  applications:	  
	  
(1) The	   segregation	   phenomena	   of	   a	   dry	   binary	   granular	   mixture	   consisting	   of	   spherical	   and	  
elliptical	  grains	  in	  a	  two-­‐dimensional	  vibrating	  container,	  and	  
(2) The	  influences	  of	  the	  aspect	  ratio	  of	  the	  elliptical	  grains	  on	  the	  jamming	  process	  in	  silo	  flows.	  
	  
Although	   relatively	   simple,	   the	   established	   numerical	  models	   for	   such	   two	   problems	   do	   indeed	  
illustrate	   some	   interesting,	   perhaps	   important,	   physical	   features	   involving	   in	   these	   complicated	  
circumstances.	  Experiments	  concerning	  these	  two	  specific	  problems	  have	  also	  been	  carried	  out	  to	  
identify	  the	  validity	  of	  the	  established	  numerical	  models.	  To	  accomplish	  the	  experiments,	  various	  
corns	  that	  can	  easily	  be	  accessed	  in	  market	  have	  been	  employed	  for	  elliptical	  grains.	  In	  particular,	  
rice,	  soybean,	  red	  bean	  and	  mung-­‐bean	  are	  chosen,	  with	  which	  only	  a	  limited	  experimental	  data	  
can	  be	  obtained	  for	  fixed	  values	  of	  the	  aspect	  ratio.	  Although	  rather	  insufficient,	  the	  experimental	  
outcomes	   do	   conform	   a	   certain	   tendencies	   estimated	   in	   the	   numerical	   simulations.	   These	   are	  
given	  in	  the	  following	  
	  
(1) The	   jamming	   process	   in	   experiments	   confirms	   the	   tendency	   estimated	   in	   numerical	  
simulations.	  As	  different	  corns	  are	  used	  in	  experiments,	  it	  is	  seen	  that	  rice,	  which	  assumes	  the	  
highest	   aspect	   ratio	   among	   the	   corns	   chosen	   for	   experiments,	   experiences	   the	   highest	  
jamming	  probability.	  For	   red-­‐	  and	  mung	  beans,	  such	  a	   tendency	   is	  not	  obvious,	   for	   the	  their	  
aspect	   ratios	   approach	   nearly	   the	   value	   of	   1,	   which	   is	   the	   aspect	   ratio	   of	   spherical	   grains.	  
Although	  insufficient,	   it	  may	  be	  remarked	  that	  the	  aspect	  ratio	  does	  play	  a	  significant	  role	   in	  
the	  jamming	  process	  for	  elliptical	  grains	  in	  silo	  discharging	  flows.	   	  
(2) When	  a	  well-­‐premixed	  dry	  binary	  granular	  mixture	  consisting	  of	  rice	  and	  red	  beans	  is	  set	  into	  
vertically	  oscillation,	  it	  is	  found	  that	  the	  rice	  grains	  will	  gather	  themselves	  un	  the	  upper	  half	  of	  
the	  container,	  whilst	  the	  red	  beans	  have	  a	  tendency	  to	  stay	  in	  the	  lower	  half	  of	  the	  container.	  
Such	  a	  segregation	  phenomena,	  has	  been	  identified	  in	  numerical	  simulations.	  However,	  as	  the	  
aspect	   ratio	   increases,	   the	   segregation	   speed	   seems	  not	  vary	   in	  a	   considerable	  amount,	   i.e.,	  
the	   segregations	   speed	   seems	   be	   a	   constant	   irrespective	   which	   beans	   we	   are	   using	   in	  
experiments.	   This	   tendency	   is	  not	   in	  agreement	  with	   the	  numerical	   simulations.	   It	   turns	  out	  
that	  the	  discrepancy	  between	  numerical	  and	  experimental	  outcomes	   lies	   in	  the	  fact	  that	  the	  
corns	  posses	  a	  certain	  surface	  defects	  which	  may	  cause	  spatially	  distributed	  disturbance	  when	  
the	  beans	  are	  set	  in	  motion.	  Such	  a	  disturbance	  becomes	  serious	  in	  vertically	  oscillating	  vessel,	  
but	   remains	  weak	   in	  silo	   flows.	  By	  and	   large,	   it	  may	  concluded	  also	   in	   this	  situation	  that	   the	  
segregation	  speed	  does	  also	  depend	  on	  the	  aspect	  ratio,	  although	  in	  a	  qualitative	  way.	  
19 
 
mixture”.	  In:	  The	  8th	  European	  Solid	  Mechanics	  Conference	  (ESMC	  2012),	  Graz,	  Austria,	  
11/07/2012	  (NSC	  100	  –	  2628	  –	  E	  -­‐	  006	  -­‐	  008	  –)	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
2 
 
本次出國日期為自民國 101年 7月 7日至 7月 16日。本次出國之行程如下： 
 
7月 7日: 在台南搭車至桃園機場搭乘長榮航空 BR 0061由桃園直飛奧地利維也納之班機，於
當地時間 7月 8日 08:45抵達奧地利維也納國際機場。旋即轉成市內與奧地利國鐵大眾運輸
系統，轉赴本次會議地點：奧地利第二大城：格拉茲。 
7 月 9 日-13 日 : 會議期間 
7 月 15 日 : 於當地時間晚上 19:35搭乘長榮航空 BR	  0062班機由奧地利維也納出發，於 7月
16日下午 17:05抵達桃園機場，轉搭高鐵返抵台南。	  
 
在會議中，與會代表就相關領域的研究進展和成果，進行了深入而廣泛的交流。報告內
容廣及 45項固體力學傳統與新興研究領域，重要的有：高等複合材料、複合材料力學、損
傷力學、實驗微奈米力學、生物力學、連體力學、顆粒力學，智能材料、結構力學、金屬成
型、相變分析、以及波傳現象等，引起與會代表的極大興趣。本人之論文：A Thermodynamic 
Analysis on the Solid-Fluid Phase Transition of a Dry Granular Material，受邀於會議第第三天第
五場次發表，與會人士給予了不少指教。特別是維也納自然科學大學隧道工程研究所吳偉教
授與本人於會後進行長時間的討論，並敲定未來可能共同合作的課題與人員互訪計畫。 
 
會議結束時，與會代表認為本次會議達到了預期目的，不僅在學術上進行了交流，在感
情上也得到了深化，從而為歐洲固體力學領域學者之間的學術交流與合作提供了新的瞭解平
臺和交流契機。本次會議攜回與會發表之會議手冊乙份及論文光碟及一張。 
 
 
二、與會心得 
  
  綜合此行之心得，除學術專業獲得充電，及結識一些國際同行外，主要還是與本次會議之
研討有關。本次會議，本人對乾燥顆粒物質流變模型比較感興趣；出發點乃從自然災害角度
出發，且最近之研究顯示對地質災害如山崩或土石流之探討已慢慢朝向複雜流-固體的方向前
進。無獨有偶的，在其他的學術領域，如食品科學流變與固體材料相變轉換研究中，亦積累
相當多的顆粒物質運動知識。藉由此次會議，針對顆粒物質，讓不同學術領域的專家學者由
各自的背景出發進行討論，真是獲益良多，亦可觸發激盪出嶄新的想法。這對未來工程設計、
減少地質災害或許將有突破性之幫助。由於本次聚集的大都是國際知名之研究學者，經由會
議之結識與交換研究心得，對筆者往後之研究與合作，將有很大的助益。此次出國參觀訪問
可藉研討會瞭解各國最近對乾燥顆粒物質流變特性之相關研究方向。 
 
三、建議事項 
 
鑒於學術研究趨向複雜化，可鼓勵同仁進行跨領域的學術合作與討論，出席可以參加不同領
域之學術研討會開始，應可激盪出豐富之學術火花。 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：方中 計畫編號：100-2628-E-006-008- 
計畫名稱：顆粒形狀對乾燥顆粒混合物於垂直震動下引致之分層效應影響研究與應用(2/2) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 3 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
ang, C., Lin, Y.H. (2012): On the effects of the aspect ratio on the jamming 
phenomena of a binary dry spherical and elliptical granular mixture in hopper 
discharging flows. Powder Tech. (NSC 100 – 2628 – E - 006 - 008 –)(in review)
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
(1) The jamming process in experiments confirms the tendency estimated in numerical 
simulations. As different corns are used in experiments, it is seen that rice, 
which assumes the highest aspect ratio among the corns chosen for experiments, 
experiences the highest jamming probability. For red- and mung beans, such a 
tendency is not obvious, for the their aspect ratios approach nearly the value 
of 1, which is the aspect ratio of spherical grains. Although insufficient, it 
may be remarked that the aspect ratio does play a significant role in the jamming 
process for elliptical grains in silo discharging flows.  
(2) When a well-premixed dry binary granular mixture consisting of rice and red 
beans is set into vertically oscillation, it is found that the rice grains will 
gather themselves un the upper half of the container, whilst the red beans have 
a tendency to stay in the lower half of the container. Such a segregation phenomena, 
has been identified in numerical simulations. However, as the aspect ratio 
increases, the segregation speed seems not vary in a considerable amount, i.e., 
the segregations speed seems be a constant irrespective which beans we are using 
in experiments. This tendency is not in agreement with the numerical simulations. 
