利用共沉法合成磷酸鋰鐵/磷酸鋰釩複合相正極材料及鋰離子擴散速率分析研究 
To synthesize the composite of LiFePO4/Li3V2(PO4)3 cathode materials by 
co-precipitation and to research Li+ diffusion coefficient. 
 
國科會計畫編號: NSC 96–2221-E-036-026  
執行期間：96 年 08 月 01 日至 97 年 08 月 31 日 
執行單位： 大同大學材料工程學系 
計畫主持人：楊木榮 
計畫參與人員： 
 
摘  要 
磷酸鋰鐵因鋰離子擴散速率與電子傳導率
太低，造成磷酸鋰鐵具有低的傳導率，因為此
ㄧ特性造成商業話運用的一大瓶頸。本計劃利
用磷酸水溶液依序添加、氫氧化鋰、鐵粉、釩
酸銨及有機酸，使其產生磷酸鋰鐵/磷酸鋰釩
混合相的前驅粉末，再透過噴霧乾燥的造粒方
式得到均勻混合且有碳源前驅物披覆的前驅
粉體。在惰性氣氛下詩與高溫熱處理後，可得
到粒徑大小約 0.5~2.5μm 的磷酸鋰鐵相與磷
酸鋰釩相的均勻混合結晶顆粒。此複合相正極
材料，在電化學特性表現上展現優異的大電流
放電特性，在 10C 的放電速率下，可達
100mAh/g 的克電容量表現。此外，透過兩相
不同比例混合的結果發現，當磷酸鋰釩的含量
越高時，其大電流放電特性越佳，藉由循環伏
安法測試得知，其磷酸鋰釩具有較佳的鋰離子
擴散速率，使其添加提升放電平台與鋰離子擴
散速率。 
Abstract 
The poor conductivity, resulting from the low 
lithium-ion diffusion rate and low electronic 
conductivity in the LiFePO4 phase, has posed a 
bottleneck for commercial applications. A 
well-crystallized powder of LiFePO4-based 
powder with vanadium addition can be 
synthesized from a mixture of iron powder and 
the aqueous solution containing H3PO4, LiOH, 
citric acid and polyvinyl acetate. The synthesized 
powders are coated with carbon. The powder 
containing the well-mixed LiFePO4 and 
Li3V2(PO4)3 phases (LFVP) with narrow 
distributed particle size ranging between 0.5 and 
2.5 μm exhibits improved electrochemical 
performance. The small particle size and the 
presence of the electronically conductive mixed 
phases can be the reasons why the cells 
containing LFVP exhibit the high discharge 
capacity of about 100mAh/g at 10C, whereas the 
samples with single phase, such as LiFePO4 and 
Li3V2(PO4)3, have the discharge capacity less 
than 80mAh/g at the same rate. Furthermore, if 
the LiFePO4/Li3V2(PO4)3 mixture have had great 
quantity Li3V2(PO4)3 phase that have batter high 
C rate discharge characteristic. To analyze the 
cyclic voltammetry dates of 
LiFePO4/Li3V2(PO4)3 mixture. Due to the 
Li3V2(PO4)3 have batter Li+ diffusion rate than 
LiFePO4, so Li3V2(PO4)3 added could promote 
redox potential and acilitate the discharge 
capacity at high C rate. 
 
Keywords: lithium iron phosphate; cathode 
material; vanadium 
 
ㄧ、Introduction 
Among the several materials under 
development for use as cathodes in lithium ion 
secondary batteries, lithium iron phosphate 
LiFePO4 has been recognized as a promising 
candidate as material for cathode of Li-batteries 
due to the low cost, environmental benignity, 
cycling stability, and high theoretical capacity of 
170mAh/g [1,2]. However, the poor conductivity, 
resulting from the low lithium-ion diffusion rate 
and low electronic conductivity in the LiFePO4 
phase, has posed a bottleneck for commercial 
applications. Improvements in the conductivity 
have been achieved by two ways. One is to 
synthesize small and monodispersed particles [3-8] 
with electronically conductive coatings on 
powdered materials [9,10]; the other is to dope 
some elements to improve conductivity [11,12] and 
promote redox potential [13,14]. 
According to our knowledge, LiFePO4 is 
prone to oxidation to produce Li3Fe2(PO4)3 or 
reports [16, 17]. For the precursor with x=0.5 
(LFVP), the synthesized powders are composed 
of LiFePO4 and Li3V2(PO4)3 phases. 
 
3.2 Microstructure of the powders 
Scanning electron micrographs of LiFePO4 
/ Li3V2(PO4)3 compound materials (LFVP) 
sample are shown in Fig. 2. The particle size of 
sample ranged from 0.5 to 2.5μm and exhibited a 
narrow distribution. From the EDS analysis and 
the elemental mappings of FeKα and VKα, they 
indicate that the LiFePO4 and Li3V2(PO4)3 
phases in LFVP were well dispersed and mixed. 
Hence it can be concluded that a powder (LFVP) 
of the well-mixed LiFePO4 and Li3V2(PO4)3 
phases with carbon coating can be obtained. 
 
3.3 Powder characterization 
Table 1 shows the particle size distribution, 
carbon amounts and electronic conductivity of 
prepared samples. For the powder with single 
phase, such as LFP and LVP, the coalescence 
will lead to the grain growth. For LFVP, the 
grain growth is impeded by the presence of other 
phases. Hence, it is reasonable that LFVP of 
duplex phases had smaller particle size than LFP 
and LVP. 
The small quantity of carbon coating 
(carbon content about 3.3 %) can substantially 
enhance the electronic conductivity of LiFePO4 
powder. Due to the aqueous precursor, the 
synthesized particle can be uniformly covered 
with carbon to promote the electronic 
conductivity by small quantity of carbon coating 
[20, 21]. For LFP, LFVP, and LVP with the similar 
carbon amount, as illustrated in Table 1, their 
conductivities are quite different. Among these 
three samples, the highest conductivity of LFVP 
may mainly be attributed to the smaller size of 
particle, since the particles with smaller size will 
provide more contacts between particles. 
 
3.4 Electrochemical performance 
The cyclic voltammetry for the 
LiFe0.5V0.5PO4 is shown in Fig. 3. It shows that 
the oxidation and reduction peaks appear in the 
way of the superimposition of the peaks of 
LiFePO4 and Li3V2(PO4)3. No other peaks can be 
found. Oxidation peaks around 3.6, 3.7, and 
4.1V/Li can be ascribed to the oxidation of 
Li3V2(PO4)3; oxidation peak around 3.5 can be 
associated with the oxidation of Fe(II). Moreover, 
the peaks of the Fe(II)/Fe(III) redox potential are 
almost the same for all considered samples. 
Since LixV2(PO4)3 exhibits an ordered Li phase 
at x=1, 2, and 2.5, the plateaus around 3.6, 3.7, 
and 4.1V can correspond to lithium extraction 
associated with the V3+/V4+ redox couple, 
respectively [16-18]. Hence it can be concluded 
that the introduction of large amount of 
vanadium can lead to formation of more 
conductive phase, Li3V2(PO4)3. The duplex 
phase (LiFePO4 and more conductive 
Li3V2(PO4)3 phases ) will not only impede the 
grain growth during sintering, but also give the 
particles more electronically conductive. That 
will be beneficial to the electrochemical 
performance at high C rate. From the absence of 
the peak shift of the Fe(II)/Fe(III) redox 
potential, the vanadium doping effect in LiFePO4 
seems to play a minor role in this study of large 
amount of vanadium addition. 
The cycle life of LFVP sample at the 
different C rates to a cut-off voltage between 2.5 
and 4.3V is shown in Fig 4. For the early stage 
of charging/discharging test under the C/10 -10C 
rate, although the LFP sample exhibits high 
specific capacity than other samples under C/10 
rate, the LFVP sample exhibits higher discharge 
capacity and lower fading rate at high C rate 
(5C~10C). At the high C rate, the discharge 
capacity at 10C is about 77% of its maximum 
capacity, about 100mAh/g. For the cells 
containing the sample with single phase, such as 
LiFePO4 and Li3V2(PO4)3, the discharge capacity 
at 10C is less than 80mAh/g. The 
charge-discharge profiles for various discharging 
rates are shown in Fig. 5. Regardless of the 
scanning (discharging) rates in this study, the 
plateaus occur almost at the same voltage. The 
higher scanning rate (C rate), the higher slope 
around discharge plateaus is, as expected. It can 
be concluded that the redox mechanisms seem to 
remain the same, that is, the redox mechanisms 
are independent of discharging rate. 
 
Conclusions 
Well-crystallized powders of LiFePO4 based 
powder with vanadium addition can be 
synthesized from mixture of iron powder and the 
aqueous solution containing H3PO4, LiOH, citric 
acid and polyvinyl acetate. The pure LiFePO4 
powder, pure Li3V2(PO4)3 powder and the 
powders (LFVP) composed of LiFePO4 and 
Li3V2(PO4)3 phases are coated with carbon. The 
cells containing LFVP as cathode exhibit highest 
discharging capacity at 10C. This can be 
attributed to the smallest particles among three 
samples as well as the presence of the carbon 
coating and the electronically conductive 
Li3V2(PO4)3 phase. However, for the cells 
containing samples with single phase, such as 
