interdependency between facilities is sometimes 
ignored or not captured properly and, as a result, 
the maintenance policies created for network-level 
maintenance problems are erroneous.  
 
Based on the above reasons, this study adopts dynamic 
hybrid systems to include both discrete behaviors 
(e.g. maintenance thresholds, deterioration mode 
switches due to action changes) and continuous 
variables of facility states. To be consistent with 
the methods adopted by the transportation agencies, 
the study considers threshold-based rules in the 
maintenance decision-making process. Moreover, the 
determination of the values for the thresholds is 
conducted with an optimization model, which improves 
the current practice of maintenance procedures 
adopted by transportation agencies. The study also 
formulates the problem with bi-level programming to 
include maintenance decision-making and traffic 
assignment. By considering the impact of the capacity 
reduction and route choice change caused by the 
maintenance actions, the model creates better 
outcomes and the benefit of life-cycle management is 
increased. 
  
The numerical example shows that dynamic hybrid 
systems are useful for transportation life-cycle 
management. It is possible to include multiple 
maintenance actions and take in account the 
deterioration mode switches caused by action changes. 
Moreover, the performance of optimal threshold 
approach is close to that of optimal policies and it 
is simple to apply and easy to understand by the 
transportation agencies. 
英文關鍵詞： life-cycle management, dynamic hybrid system, 
maintenance decision-making, bi-level programming, 
optimal control 
 
 2 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
□ 達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明：本研究計劃之執行績效良好，國外差旅費執行率為 100%，業務費執行率為 98.64%，
研究設備費執行率為 94.47%，總經費執行率達 98.58%，其中承蒙  貴會補助MATLAB科學
運算軟體昇級維護等研究設備費，對於本計劃之程式撰寫、電腦模擬及結果分析展示助益良
多，相關研究成果請見第 2 項，國外差旅費係用於出席國際學術會議及論文發表，其成果請
參見國外差旅心得報告。 
V 
(This is a sample cover image for this issue. The actual cover is not yet available at this time.)
This article appeared in a journal published by Elsevier. The attached
copy is furnished to the author for internal non-commercial research
and education use, including for instruction at the authors institution
and sharing with colleagues.
Other uses, including reproduction and distribution, or selling or
licensing copies, or posting to personal, institutional or third party
websites are prohibited.
In most cases authors are permitted to post their version of the
article (e.g. in Word or Tex form) to their personal website or
institutional repository. Authors requiring further information
regarding Elsevier’s archiving and manuscript policies are
encouraged to visit:
http://www.elsevier.com/copyright
Author's personal copy
Such maintenance plans, while optimal, are not readily accepted because they cannot be easily understood by either
transportation agencies or funding authorities. These plans are also not particularly robust because they often change
dramatically when available funds change slightly (Task Force on Pavements and the AASHTO, 2001). Most importantly,
they are incompatible with the threshold-based workﬂows adopted by transportation agencies, i.e., a maintenance action
takes place when the facility deterioration exceeds a certain threshold. For transportation agencies, repairing a facility in
poor condition is intuitive and natural while conducting maintenance activities according to a pre-determined schedule is
not.
One of the problems with this state of the practice is that the determination of thresholds lacks a systematic approach.
Khurshid et al. (2011) pointed out that thresholds have been determined mostly through expert opinion or historical trends.
Moreover, thresholds are usually selected without considering the available budget, supposedly one of the most important
factors in the decision process, and the results are unlikely to be effective. If the thresholds are not set properly, either the
budget will be exhausted long before the end of the planning period, or the budget will not be used effectively and the facil-
ities will not maintained in the best possible state given the budget. Determining maintenance thresholds to use a limited
budget effectively for a large system of facilities is a highly complex problem. Therefore, the objective of this research is to
propose a methodology for determining the optimal maintenance thresholds for threshold-based transportation infrastruc-
ture life-cycle management under the budget constraints.
Maintenance optimization has been extensively studied in various ﬁelds including machine or equipment replacement
and road maintenance (e.g., Hopp and Wu, 1990; Childress and Durango-Cohen, 2005). A comprehensive review of mainte-
nance optimization models and their applications can be found in Dekker (1996) and Dekker et al. (1997). Threshold-based
maintenance rules are widely used because they are intuitive and easy to implement. Representative studies of continuous-
state threshold-based maintenance optimization models in the context of transportation infrastructure life-cycle manage-
ment include Tsunokawa and Schofer (1994), Li and Madanat (2002), Ouyang and Madanat (2006), Jido et al. (2008), and
Sathaye and Madanat (2011).
A meaningful way of categorizing these studies is by the number of components considered. The above studies considered
a single facility except for Sathaye and Madanat (2011) that generated maintenance thresholds for a system of facilities. The
interdependencies among components are clearly the main concern in multi-facility maintenance optimization. This re-
search considers functional interdependency deﬁned by Durango-Cohen and Sarutipand (2007, 2009). In the context of
transportation infrastructure, functional interdependency means that the condition of a facility and its ability to provide ser-
vice affect the demand at another facility. For example, when the paved surface of a highway section is in poor condition,
drivers tend to reduce their speed to ensure comfort and safety. This leads to a reduction in road capacity and an increase
in travel time on that section of highway. Drivers respond and adjust their route choices when the capacity and travel times
of a road network change. Because trafﬁc is the biggest contributor to pavement deterioration, accurate prediction of the
trafﬁc on each section of a road network is necessary when selecting proper maintenance thresholds. Therefore, functional
interdependency in a network of facilities must be carefully considered in predicting facility deterioration and in estimating
maintenance thresholds accurately.
In Durango-Cohen and Sarutipand (2007, 2009), elasticity of user demand to the change of facility condition was used to
represent functional interdependency. This approach was ﬁrst proposed by Friesz and Enrique Fernandez (1979) to consider
demand responsiveness to maintenance for a single transportation facility. Durango-Cohen and Sarutipand (2007, 2009) ex-
tended the same approach to optimizing maintenance plans for multi-facility transportation systems. The approach of de-
mand elasticity is attractive for high-level strategic maintenance planning because of its simplicity and efﬁciency. The
rapid development of computer hardware and software technology has led to a more realistic approach to capturing func-
tional interdependency based on trafﬁc assignment or simulation. Studies of maintenance optimization that consider func-
tional interdependency using trafﬁc assignment or simulation include Uchida and Kagaya (2006) who used stochastic user
equilibrium, Ouyang (2007) who assumed deterministic user equilibrium, and Ng et al. (2009) who used deterministic, dy-
namic trafﬁc assignment. When the user responses are accounted for, optimal threshold-based maintenance is essentially a
bi-level problem where the upper level is the threshold-based maintenance problem and the lower level is the user response
problem. Bi-level programming problems are cumbersome to solve directly because of their special form. Moreover, they are
NP hard, meaning they are inefﬁcient to solve for real-world situations (Migdalas, 1995).
Heuristic algorithms are often used to solve such problems efﬁciently in various transportation ﬁelds, including network
design, signal setting, origin/destination matrix estimation, and transportation infrastructure maintenance planning (Friesz
et al., 1992; LeBlanc, 1975; Migdalas, 1995; Ng et al., 2009; Yang and Yagar, 1994). Note that the ﬁrst three types of problems
are single period, i.e., the upper-level decision makers consider the lower-level decision makers’ response to the upper-level
decisions in a single period. On the other hand, life-cycle management is by deﬁnition a multi-period problem. This means
that making upper-level decisions must consider the responses of lower-level decision makers for multiple periods, which
makes the problem difﬁcult to solve. Moreover, the solution methods proposed in the above studies are designed only for
speciﬁc problems and none of them can be applied directly to the optimal network-level threshold-based maintenance prob-
lem considered in this research. Outside the transportation ﬁeld, the simple general tabu search algorithm developed by
Wen and Huang (1996) for bi-level programming problems looks promising for solving the threshold-based maintenance
problem. However, in Wen and Huang (1996), the decision variables in the upper-level problem considered are limited to
being binary. Adopting the approach in this research where the upper-level decision variables (maintenance thresholds)
are continuous would require further modiﬁcation.
1124 J.C. Chu, Y.-J. Chen / Transportation Research Part B 46 (2012) 1123–1143
Author's personal copy
On the other hand, pavement age indicates the structural condition of pavement. In this paper, it is selected as the second
continuous state. The pavement age for pavement n at time t is denoted as XAGE(n, t). As a structural condition, pavement age
does not have a direct impact on functional conditions such as IRI. Instead, it determines the strength of pavement and thus
affects its deterioration rate (Task Force on Pavements and the AASHTO, 2001). Unlike the IRI functional condition, structural
conditions cannot be improved with surface maintenance and can only be restored by pavement reconstruction.
Pavement maintenance is usually categorized into three types according to its effects on pavement condition: preventive
maintenance, major maintenance, and reconstruction. Because doing nothing can also be considered a maintenance strategy,
there are a total of four maintenance actions considered in the research. The candidate maintenance actions are as follows:
1. No action: By deﬁnition, the strategy includes no action and has no effect on pavement states. It apparently has no asso-
ciated cost. This strategy is denoted as NoAction in the following model formulations.
2. Preventive maintenance: This type of maintenance action mainly involves treatment of pavement surfaces and usually
results in little or no improvement in IRI. Its main purpose is to reduce the IRI deterioration rate. This type of maintenance
has the lowest unit area cost compared to the two other types of maintenance below. The preventive maintenance action
selected for this research was fog sealing because it is one of the most commonly used preventive maintenance actions.
This strategy is denoted as FogSeal.
3. Major maintenance: This type of maintenance action generates signiﬁcant, instantaneous improvement in IRI and costs
more than preventive maintenance. Milling and overlaying was used as an example of major maintenance in this
research, based on the general practice. This action is denoted as Overlay.
4. Reconstruction: Major maintenance such as mill and overlay is effective for restoring pavement IRI. However, it has little
or no effect on the pavement’s structural condition, which worsens with pavement age to the point where at the end of its
life, pavement becomes weak and deteriorates rapidly. To restore a pavement’s structural condition before it fails com-
pletely and loses its ability to support transportation, the pavement must be reconstructed. All the pavement states are
reset after reconstruction. The cost of reconstruction is the highest of all types of maintenance. This action is denoted as
Reconst.
2.2. Notation list
Tables 1 and 2 list the notation used in this paper. Note that to improve the readability of the following model formula-
tions, the meanings of indices are consistent throughout the paper. As a result, their notation is also deﬁned in the list,
although it is not mandatory for formulating models.
2.3. Upper-level problem: optimal threshold-based maintenance
The objective of optimal threshold-based maintenance is to ﬁnd the maintenance thresholds for a network of highway
pavements that optimize a function of pavement conditions given the constraints of budgets. In this paper, the objective
function for the optimization problem minimizes the system-wide trafﬁc weighted IRI for T years:
min
XN
n¼1
XTþ1
t¼2
Vðn; tÞXIRIðn; tÞ ð1Þ
In Eq. (1), V(n, t) is the total trafﬁc ﬂow of pavement n in year t. Normally, there are multiple levels of roads in a highway
system. The major roads handle more trafﬁc than minor roads and thus their condition contributes more to the overall road
quality than the others. Therefore, the continuous states are weighted by the trafﬁc served by the pavements to consider the
importance of the pavement sections in the objective function. Of course, other function deﬁnitions could be chosen by the
transportation agencies based on their management preferences. Because the initial continuous states in year 1 are given, the
continuous states considered in the objective function include years between 2 and T + 1 for a planning horizon of T years.
The annual budget constraints apply for all years as shown below:
X
a2A
XN
n¼1
CaðnÞdaðn; tÞ 6 BðtÞ; 8t ¼ 1; . . . ; T ð2Þ
In Eq. (2), Ca(n) is the cost for maintenance action a on pavement n, where a 2A ¼ fNoAction; FogSeal;Overlay;Reconstg as
deﬁned in Section 2.1. da(n, t) is a binary variable indicating if maintenance action a is selected in year t for pavement n,
where da(n, t) = 1 means action a is selected and 0 otherwise. B(t) is the annual budget for year t. The constraints mean that
the total maintenance cost for all actions and pavements in a year must be less than or equal to the available budget. The
remaining of the subsection describes the major components of a HDM, which can be illustrated as Fig. 1.
2.3.1. Event generator
The existence of an event generator (EG in Fig. 1) is critical because it describes the threshold-based maintenance rules.
Speciﬁcally, it monitors the continuous states (i.e., pavement conditions) and compares them with the maintenance thresh-
olds. Based on the comparison results, corresponding events and necessary maintenance actions are generated using logical
1126 J.C. Chu, Y.-J. Chen / Transportation Research Part B 46 (2012) 1123–1143
Author's personal copy
Based on the four maintenance actions deﬁned in Section 2.1 and the common practice adopted by transportation agen-
cies, the relationships between the maintenance decisions and thresholds can be illustrated as shown in Fig. 2. This ﬁgure
shows three maintenance thresholds; the total number of thresholds R = 3. Speciﬁcally, s1 is the IRI threshold for applying
overlay, s2 is the IRI threshold for applying fog seal, and s3 is the pavement age threshold for initiating reconstruction. Based
on the descriptions for maintenance actions in Section 2.1, s1 must be no smaller than s2 as Eq. (4) shows. Transportation
agencies would do nothing for pavement in good condition that does not require maintenance. Speciﬁcally, if the pavement
IRI is less than s2, the no-action’ strategy is adopted as shown in the ﬁgure and Eq. (5). When the IRI increases but major
maintenance is not warranted, transportation agencies conduct preventive maintenance. Thus, fog seal would be applied
when pavement IRI is between s1 and s2 as illustrated in the ﬁgure and Eq. (6). When the pavement IRI is high, mill and
overlay are required to reduce it to an acceptable level. As shown in the ﬁgure and Eq. (7), overlay is selected when the
IRI is greater than s1. When pavement age reaches its life limit, reconstruction should take place. The ﬁgure and Eq. (8) show
that if the pavement age is greater than s3, then the reconstruction maintenance action is selected. Note that old pavement
leads to poor structural condition, which poses a more serious threat to road safety than poor functional condition. This is
because poor structural condition could cause complete failure of the pavement while poor functional condition only in-
creases discomfort for the users. Therefore, reconstruction has higher priority than other maintenance actions and the need
for reconstruction should be satisﬁed before the needs for other actions. In other words, overlay, fog seal, and no action will
only be selected when reconstruction is not required.
To summarize, the threshold-based rules for selecting maintenance actions that will be used in the numerical example
are:
s1 P s2 ð4Þ
dNoActionðn; tÞ ¼
1; if XIRIðn; tÞ 6 s1 and XIRIðn; tÞ 6 s2 and XAGEðn; tÞ 6 s3
0; otherwise

ð5Þ
dFogSealðn; tÞ ¼
1; if XIRIðn; tÞ 6 s1 and XIRIðn; tÞ > s2 and XAGEðn; tÞ 6 s3
0; otherwise

ð6Þ
dOverlayðn; tÞ ¼
1; if XIRIðn; tÞ > s1 and XIRIðn; tÞ > s2 and XAGEðn; tÞ 6 s3
0; otherwise

ð7Þ
dReconstðn; tÞ ¼
1; if XAGEðn; tÞ > s3
0; otherwise

8n ¼ 1; . . . ;N; t ¼ 1; . . . ; T ð8Þ
Another set of maintenance rules is considered here to demonstrate the ﬂexibility of the proposed methodology. In the
example above, the age threshold has higher priority than roughness thresholds, which puts more emphasis on safety than
on cost. Suppose that to reduce cost, the transportation agency decides to delay reconstruction of a pavement section if its
roughness is still low. The alternative event generator can then be formulated as follows:
Fig. 1. Hybrid dynamic model.
Fig. 2. Threshold and event deﬁnition.
1128 J.C. Chu, Y.-J. Chen / Transportation Research Part B 46 (2012) 1123–1143
Author's personal copy
other hand, if pavement n has been overlaid in year t, Y(n, t) = 0. The ﬁnite state machine that represents the transition of the
discrete state can be formulated in forms of logical statements as in Eq. (15). The statements are clearly illustrated in Fig. 3.
The outcome that pavement n in year t + 1 is not overlaid (Y(n, t + 1) = 1) can be observed when one of two conditions is sat-
isﬁed. The ﬁrst is that the pavement is not overlaid (i.e., Y(n, t) = 1) and the selected maintenance action is either no action,
fog seal, or reconstruction (i.e., no overlay and dOverlay(n, t) = 0) in this time period. The second condition is that the pavement
is overlaid (i.e., Y(n, t) = 0) and that the selected maintenance action is reconstruction in this year (i.e., dReconst(n, t) = 1). If both
conditions are not satisﬁed, the pavement is overlaid in the next year (Y(n, t + 1) = 0).
Although not required in the model formulation, the two conditions for Y(n, t + 1) = 0 are also stated explicitly for com-
pleteness. The ﬁrst possible condition for an overlaid pavement in the next year is that the pavement is overlaid
(Y(n, t) = 0) and the selected maintenance action is either no action, fog seal, or overlay (i.e., no reconstruction and dreconst(-
n, t) = 0) in year t. The second possible condition is that the pavement is not overlaid (Y(n, t) = 1) and the selected mainte-
nance action is overlay (dOverlay(n, t) = 1) in this year.
Yðn; t þ 1Þ ¼ 1 if and only if
ððYðn; tÞ ¼ 1 and dOverlayðn; tÞ ¼ 0Þ or ðYðn; tÞ ¼ 0 and dReconstðn; tÞ ¼ 1ÞÞ
8n ¼ 1 . . . ;N; t ¼ 1; . . . ; T ð15Þ
2.3.3. Mode selector
As discussed in Section 1, assuming that a pavement’s continuous states progress according to a single dynamic law
throughout its life cycle would be unrealistic. In HDMs, the dynamic laws of continuous states switch automatically between
multiple modes to reﬂect the heterogeneous effects of the available maintenance actions, which are controlled by a mode
selector (MS in Fig. 1). A MS can be formulated as follows:
imðn; tÞ ¼ f mMSðfYkðn; tÞ;8k 2Kg; fdaðn; tÞ;8a 2AgÞ; 8n ¼ 1; . . . ;N; t ¼ 1; . . . ; T; m ¼ 1; . . . ;M ð16Þ
In Eq. (16), f mMS is the function of the mode selector for mode m, and M is the total number of modes. It is used to choose the
appropriate deterioration mode based on the maintenance action selected for the pavement and its discrete states. Thus, the
function f mMS depends on the selection of maintenance actions and discrete states. If modem is selected for pavement n in year
t, then im(n, t) = 1; otherwise, im(n, t) = 0. Note that the deterioration modes are mutually exclusive and only one of the modes
can be selected for a pavement in any time period. Also note that the function of a mode selector is similar to an event gen-
erator in the sense that they both are made up of IF–THEN–ELSE logical statements. The difference is that the inputs for mode
selectors are discrete variables, i.e., selection of maintenance actions and discrete states, while the inputs for event genera-
tors are continuous variables, i.e., pavement conditions.
In the numerical example, six modes are considered; the total number of modes M = 6. The logical conditions for the
mode selector can be formulated as in Eqs. (17)–(22). As mentioned earlier, pavements deteriorate differently after being
overlaid; therefore, a maintenance action could be associated with more than one deterioration mode. Fig. 3 illustrates
the relationships between the discrete state, maintenance actions, and the mode selected. For the maintenance strategy
of no action, the pavement operates under mode 1 if the pavement has not been overlaid and mode 5 if the pavement
has been overlaid. If fog seal is chosen, the pavement operates under mode 2 if the pavement has not been overlaid and mode
6 if it has been overlaid. The differences between these modes will be explained in Section 2.3.4.
The instantaneous impacts of overlay and reconstruction on pavement deterioration dominate the transition of pavement
conditions. Therefore, when overlay or reconstruction is selected, the deterioration modes are not distinct for overlaid and
non-overlaid pavements. Thus, mode 3 is adopted if overlay is chosen and mode 4 is adopted if reconstruction is chosen,
without considering the overlay history.
i1ðn; tÞ ¼ 1 if and only if Yðn; tÞ ¼ 1 and dNoActionðn; tÞ ¼ 1 ð17Þ
i2ðn; tÞ ¼ 1 if and only if Yðn; tÞ ¼ 1 and dFogSealðn; tÞ ¼ 1 ð18Þ
i3ðn; tÞ ¼ 1 if and only if dOverlayðn; tÞ ¼ 1 ð19Þ
i4ðn; tÞ ¼ 1 if and only if dReconstðn; tÞ ¼ 1 ð20Þ
i5ðn; tÞ ¼ 1 if and only if Yðn; tÞ ¼ 0 and dNoActionðn; tÞ ¼ 1 ð21Þ
i6ðn; tÞ ¼ 1 if and only if Yðn; tÞ ¼ 0 and dFogSealðn; tÞ ¼ 1 8n ¼ 1; . . . ;N; t ¼ 1; . . . ; T ð22Þ
2.3.4. Switched systems
A pavement can deteriorate under multiple modes based on the mode selected in the mode selector. The switched sys-
tems (SS in Fig. 1) represent these dynamic laws for continuous states as follows:
1130 J.C. Chu, Y.-J. Chen / Transportation Research Part B 46 (2012) 1123–1143
Author's personal copy
case of high fog seal effect is that the preventive maintenance keeps IRI at the same level. Therefore, /IRI is set to 1.000 for
m = 2 and 5 in the high-effect case. Representing the IRI decrease in the case of pavement overlay, the parameters of mode 3
indicate that overlay reduces the pavement roughness to not less than 2.0. For IRI reduction in the case of reconstruction, the
parameters of mode 4 mean that reconstruction will bring the pavement roughness back to the condition of new pavement.
The second major component of the switched systems for IRI is used to capture the impact of external variables on IRI. In
this example, trafﬁc is the only external variable (i.e.,L ¼ ftrafficg) and thus the subscript l is dropped to simplify the nota-
tion. As a result, U(n, t) is used to denote annual trafﬁc per lane in units of million ESALs on pavement n in year t, and can be
converted from total trafﬁc V(n, t) calculated in the lower-level problem. The impact of trafﬁc on IRI is represented by the
term /mIRI
XAGEðn;tÞþ1 274
ð1þSNCðn;tÞÞ5 Uðn; tÞ. In the equations, SNC(n, t) is the structural number considering the contribution of sub-
grade (see Paterson and Attoh-Okine (1992) for more details) for pavement n in year t. Because the SNC values for all road
sections in the network for the numerical example are unavailable, approximate values of 5.0 are used form = 1 and 2, which
is the design parameter commonly used in the research area. When the pavement is milled and overlaid, the weaker surface
is replaced by a new, stronger surface. Therefore, the SNC value for pavements after milling and overlaying (m = 5 and 6) is
set to 5.4 according to the value suggested in American Association of State Highway and Transportation Ofﬁcials (1993). The
implication is that the impact of one unit of trafﬁc is less under modes 5 and 6 than that under modes 1 and 2. Note that
weather-related external variables such as temperature and precipitation are often considered in the prediction of pavement
deterioration. However, because the climate has already been considered in the /IRI parameter, it is unnecessary to include
climate factors again in the numerical example. In modes 3 and 4, the parameters of trafﬁc impact are assumed to be zero
because the impact of trafﬁc is negligible compared with the effects of overlay and reconstruction. Finally, after all the modes
are formulated, the IRI prediction for the next year can be calculated by combining predictions from all modes as shown in
Eq. (29).
XmAGEðn; tÞ ¼
gmAGE þ /mAGEXAGEðn; tÞ; if imðn; tÞ ¼ 1
0; otherwise
(
8n ¼ 1; . . . ;N; t ¼ 1; . . . ; T; m ¼ 1; . . . ;M ð26Þ
XAGEðn; t þ 1Þ ¼
XM
m¼1
XmAGEðn; tÞ 8n ¼ 1; . . . ;N; t ¼ 1; . . . ; T ð27Þ
XmIRIðn; tÞ ¼
gmIRI þ /mIRIXIRIðn; tÞ þ /mIRIXAGEðn;tÞþ1 274ð1þSNCðn;tÞÞ5 Uðn; tÞ; if i
mðn; tÞ ¼ 1
0; otherwise
(
8n ¼ 1; . . . ;N; t ¼ 1; . . . ; T; m ¼ 1; . . . ;M ð28Þ
XIRIðn; t þ 1Þ ¼
XM
m¼1
XmIRIðn; tÞ 8n ¼ 1; . . . ;N; t ¼ 1; . . . ; T ð29Þ
2.4. Lower-level problem: user responses to maintenance decisions
One of the major contributors to pavement deterioration is trafﬁc (Task Force on Pavements and the AASHTO, 2001).
Therefore, predicting the trafﬁc ﬂow on each pavement section accurately is critical to estimating pavement deterioration
and determining maintenance thresholds. To capture the user response to maintenance decisions, the lower-level problem
is formulated as a user equilibrium trafﬁc assignment problem considering the effect of pavement deterioration on road
capacity. The problem of trafﬁc assignment on highway networks has been studied intensively; see Shefﬁ (1984) for a re-
view. In this research, the user-equilibrium formulation by LeBlanc (1975) is adopted as shown in Eqs. (30)–(34). In the
equations, S is the set of all nodes (intersections) on the network, D is the set of nodes that are destinations, Os is the
set of all road sections (links) that start at intersection s, Is represents all the road sections that end at intersection s,
V(n, t) is the total amount of ﬂow that travels on pavement n in year t, Vd(n, t) is the amount of ﬂow with ﬁnal destination
d in year t, and D(s,d, t) is the total ﬂow that originates at node s and destined for node d in year t. The objective function
of Eq. (30) is equivalent to the assumption that each road user takes the path that minimizes travel time (Shefﬁ, 1984).
Eq. (31) is commonly called a link performance function; it describes the relationship between ﬂow and travel time for a
road section. The an and bn are the parameters speciﬁc to pavement n, and c0(n) is the free-ﬂow travel time of pavement sec-
tion n. Note that the road capacity is a function of the continuous states, which are discussed further in the next paragraph.
Eq. (32) guarantees ﬂow conservation for each destination at each intersection. Eq. (33) indicates that the total ﬂow of a road
section is the sum of ﬂows to all destinations passing through this road section. Eq. (34) ensures that all ﬂows are non-
negative.
The common deﬁnition of the capacity of a road section is the maximum number of vehicles passing a point on that road
section over a unit of time. The capacity of a highway decreases as the pavement condition deteriorates (Chandra, 2004). To
capture this effect, the capacity for pavement n at time t is denoted as Cðn; t; fXjðn; tÞ;8j 2 JgÞ, a function of the continuous
states for the same pavement in the same year. As a result, when the pavement condition is poor and capacity decreases, the
1132 J.C. Chu, Y.-J. Chen / Transportation Research Part B 46 (2012) 1123–1143
Author's personal copy
Wen and Huang (1996) was extended to consider continuous decision variables. The extension mainly follows the contin-
uous tabu search algorithm proposed by Siarry and Berthiau (1997).
The concept of the function evaluation is the following. Because trafﬁc assignment patterns are independent in each year,
the lower-level (trafﬁc assignment) problems are actually separate problems. Taking advantage of the sequential nature of
the maintenance decisions, the technique of problem decomposition can be used to solve each year in sequence instead of
evaluating all years simultaneously. Algorithm 1 is a summary of the steps in this procedure. The solution for the upper-level
problem being evaluated (maintenance thresholds) is given in step 1. The current year and the pavement states are initial-
ized in step 2. Before the end of the planning horizon is reached (step 3), the lower-level (trafﬁc assignment) problem is
solved for that year in step 4. The maintenance actions and continuous states can also be calculated in step 5 with the main-
tenance thresholds and trafﬁc ﬂows on each link. As shown in steps 6–8, if the maintenance cost exceeds the budget in any
year, the solution is infeasible and thus the objective function value is set to inﬁnity, which also makes the algorithm to jump
to step 12 to terminate the procedure. Otherwise, the current year advances in step 9. When all years have been evaluated,
the objective function is calculated in step 11 and the procedure ends in step 12.
With the capability of evaluating the objective function of the bi-level problem, the main steps of the solution method are
the following. A feasible, initial solution for the upper-level problem is selected randomly as the current solution. The objec-
tive function for a given solution of maintenance thresholds can be evaluated using Algorithm 1. In the continuous tabu
search, a solution is not a single point in the solution space. Instead, it is treated as the center of a solution ‘‘ball’’ and all
space within the ball is regarded as part of the solution. The space outside of the solution ball and within a predetermined
distance from the center is considered as the neighborhood of the solution. A certain number of non-tabu solutions are gen-
erated from this neighborhood and the objective function is evaluated for each neighboring solution. The best solution
among these neighboring solutions is selected as the next current solution. Solutions worse than the current solution can
be accepted as the new current solution to permit escape from local optima. When a solution is selected, the space of the
solution ball is marked as tabu. The above steps repeat until the maximum permitted number of worse solutions has been
reached. For the sake of brevity, the detailed tabu search procedure is not repeated here. More details are available at Wen
and Huang (1996) and Siarry and Berthiau (1997).
Algorithm 1. Objective function evaluation.
1: Given s1, . . . ,sR.
2: t = 1. Initialize continuous and discrete states (Eqs. (14) and (25)).
3: while t 6 T do
4: Solve Eqs. (30)–(34) for time t to generate V(n, t) for all n.
5: Solve Eqs. (3), (13), (14), (16), (23), and (24) for time t to generate Xj(n, t + 1) for all n and j.
6: if
P
a
PN
n¼1CaðnÞdaðn; tÞ > BðtÞ then
7: Z =1. Go to step 1.
8: end if
9: t = t + 1.
10: end while
11: Z ¼PNn¼1PTþ1t¼2 Vðn; tÞXIRIðn; tÞ (Eq. (1)).
12: End.
3. Numerical example
This section demonstrates the proposed methodology and examines its applicability to threshold-based transportation
infrastructure life-cycle management with an example. The background of the example, parameters, results, and discussions
are described in the following subsections.
3.1. Background
The urban area of Dasi Township in Taoyuan County, Taiwan is the subject of the example in this study. One of the major
reasons for choosing this area is that its transportation system includes no freeways or expressways. This implies that the
highway system of Dasi Township is managed by a single agency, consistent with the assumption of a single decision maker
used in the proposed methodology.
Fig. 4 shows the transportation network of the urban area of Dasi Township. Two levels of highway exist in this area. The
bold lines represent the arterial roads, which are four-lane two-way roads, and the rest are local roads, which are two-lane
two-way roads. Each direction of a road section is treated as an individual pavement section in the transformation of the
highway system into a directed network. There are 135 two-way road sections and thus 270 pavement sections (directed
network links) in the transportation system. Therefore, the total number of pavements N = 270. Moreover, 70 intersections
1134 J.C. Chu, Y.-J. Chen / Transportation Research Part B 46 (2012) 1123–1143
Author's personal copy
reduction of capacity is 300 PCU per hour for one unit of IRI on unsignalized two-lane highways. Thus, the capacity reduction
per lane is 150 PCU per hour (Zhang et al., 2010). This value is further reduced by half because signalized streets are consid-
ered in this example. Finally, let C0(n) be the original hourly capacity for pavement n without considering roughness.
Cðn; t; fXjðn; tÞ;8j 2 JgÞ in Eq. (31) is replaced with C0(n)  75  (XIRI(n, t)  2.0). This actual, IRI-dependent capacity is incor-
porated in the lower-level problems to capture the user response to maintenance in the upper-level problems.
3.3. Results
Combining Sections 2.3, 2.4, and 3.2, the complete bi-level problem considered in this example can be summarized as
follows. The objective function of the upper-level problem is Eq. (1). The constraints include Eqs. (2), (4)–(8), (15), (17)–
(22), (26)–(29), and (35)–(37). The objective function and the constraints of the lower-level problem are Eqs. (30)–(34). This
bi-level problem can be solved with the solution method described in Section 2.5.
The problem was solved on a Windows 7, Intel Core i7, 3.07-GHz desktop computer. The tabu search algorithm intro-
duced in Section 2.5 was written in Visual C++ 2008. The algorithm parameter values used in the example were the follow-
ing. The optimal solution that the tabu search algorithm searches for is (s1,s2,s3), i.e., the three thresholds for IRI and
pavement age. Six neighboring stations are generated in each iteration and the best of these stations is chosen for the
new current solution. The size of the solution ball was (0.1,0.1,0.0) for the three thresholds. Note that the value for s3 is zero,
which indicates that s3 was allowed to remain unchanged in the search process. The reason for doing this is that reducing s3
implies more pavement reconstruction and signiﬁcant cost increase. Reducing s3 frequently generates solutions that violate
budget constraints, especially in the later stage of the search. Thus, this special treatment was used to retain the possibility of
making smaller moves in the direction of s3. The range for searching around the current solution was (0.3,0.3,1.0). That is,
the search range around s1 was between s1 + 0.1 and s1 + 0.3 and between s1  0.1 and s1  0.3. Similarly, the search range
for s2 was between s2 + 0.1 and s2 + 0.3 and between s2  0.1 and s2  0.3. The search range for s3 was between s3 + 1 and
s3  1. The size of the tabu list was set to 10 solutions. Ten starting solutions were randomly generated and each starting
solution allowed a maximum of 10 worse ‘‘moves.’’ Note that the selection of parameter values for the solution method
was rather arbitrary. More testing is required to determine the most effective set of parameters. Finally, the objective func-
tion was evaluated as explained in Section 2.5 using the KNITRO solver called by the AMPL modeling language for upper-
level problems (Step 1 in Algorithm 1 with a dummy objective function) and for lower-level problems (Step 1 in Algorithm
1).
Not counting the threshold variables (s1, s2, s3) that were controlled by the tabu search algorithm, the upper-level prob-
lem had 65,613 variables and 192,510 constraints. The problem was decomposed into sub-problems in the solution proce-
dure. For t = 2 to t = 11, each sub-problem had 6480 variables and 19,170 constraints. Because of the initialization of Y(n,1)
and XAGE(n,1) in Eqs. (35) and (36), there were 810 additional variables and 810 constraints. Note that because the upper-
level sub-problems are composed of logical statements, there is only one feasible solution for all the variables given a set
of thresholds. As a result, each upper-level sub-problem required little time to solve considering the size of the problem.
The lower-level problem had 38,880 variables and 13,140 constraints. This problem was also decomposed and solved sep-
arately for each time period. Except for the ﬁrst time period, each sub-problem had 3510 variables and 1170 constraints. The
XIRI(n,1) are initialized in Eq. (37) so there were additional 270 variables and 270 constraints for the lower-level sub-problem
Table 4
Summary of important results.
Scenario Fog seal
effect
Capacity loss due to IRI
increase
Budget (million
NT$)
s1 s2 s3 Obj. func.
(109)
Trafﬁc weighted
avg. IRI
CPU time
(h)
1 Low Normal 15 2.96 2.90 39 11.27 2.64 10.9
20 2.73 2.04 31 10.32 2.42 7.7
25 2.40 2.01 31 9.59 2.25 7.5
30 2.24 2.02 31 9.27 2.17 7.5
2 High Normal 15 3.08 2.01 39 10.82 2.54 14.4
20 2.87 2.01 30 10.03 2.35 9.2
25 2.69 2.02 30 9.80 2.30 9.0
30 2.21 2.00 31 9.08 2.13 9.1
30 (alt.) 2.33 2.01 30⁄ 9.26 2.17 5.9
3 Low Zero 15 2.93 2.92 39 11.10 2.61 9.1
20 2.73 2.04 31 10.29 2.42 8.1
25 2.42 2.04 31 9.60 2.25 8.1
30 2.24 2.02 31 9.26 2.17 6.6
4 Low Double 15 2.96 2.90 39 11.31 2.64 10.3
20 2.71 2.15 31 10.35 2.41 7.1
25 2.40 2.01 31 9.60 2.25 6.9
30 2.24 2.02 31 9.27 2.17 7.1
⁄ The value of s3 is ﬁxed at 30 in this solution to make the trend for thresholds consistent.
1136 J.C. Chu, Y.-J. Chen / Transportation Research Part B 46 (2012) 1123–1143
Author's personal copy
The ﬁnal column of the table shows that the solution time for each budget scenario was in the range 6–14 h. Because tabu
search is a probabilistic search method, the processing times for ﬁnding the optimal solutions vary and do not necessarily
have clear trends. The only obvious trend is that the solution times were longer for the tightest budget, i.e., the 15 million
NT$ cases. Other factors affecting processing times are inconclusive.
4. Conclusions
Threshold-based maintenance is compatible with workﬂows in practice. Compared with maintenance plans that provide
details for maintenance action selection and timing for each facility, threshold-based maintenance is intuitive, robust, and
easy to implement. Therefore, such a maintenance strategy is more readily accepted by transportation agencies and has
greater potential for actual application in practice. Instead of using engineering judgment or past experience, the proposed
methodology provides a framework for modeling the process of threshold-based maintenance and optimizing maintenance
thresholds. Therefore, the practical contribution of this research is in improving threshold-based life-cycle management
practice by generating maintenance thresholds that utilize maintenance budgets more effectively.
The methodological contribution of the research is the adoption of HDMs for modeling threshold-based maintenance pro-
cess and the solution method for ﬁnding optimal maintenance thresholds using such models. HDMs are used in this research
to simulate the process of threshold-based maintenance because they are capable of incorporating important behaviors in
the deterioration of transportation infrastructure and are expected to represent these transportation facilities more realis-
tically. First of all, they have the ﬂexibility to contain multiple facility conditions that deteriorate differently (e.g., functional
and structural conditions). Second, the multiple deterioration modes capture the heterogeneous effects of maintenance ac-
tions as well as the maintenance history of facilities. Third, with the logical statements including IF–THEN–ELSE and IF–
AND–ONLY–IF, facilities automatically switch between deterioration modes by comparing facility conditions and mainte-
nance thresholds. Fourth, a bi-level programming problem is considered to include the user responses to maintenance deci-
sions and predict the facility deterioration more accurately; the upper-level problem is the threshold-based maintenance
and the lower-level program is the user reactions. To our knowledge, no research has ever considered the above behaviors
simultaneously in a single maintenance optimization model. The bi-level programming problem was solved with a modiﬁed
tabu search algorithm. Logical statements were converted into standard mathematical constraints to be able to use standard
tools in the optimization procedure. An example of an urban area in Taiwan was used to validate the proposed methodology,
and the resulting maintenance thresholds were both reasonable and stable. However, due to the logical nature of threshold-
based maintenance, the parameters for tolerance in the optimization tools must be carefully conﬁgured to avoid incorrect
results.
Finally, the directions for future research are discussed. Truck trafﬁc is the major contributor to pavement deterioration
but trucks have less freedom for route choice than private vehicles. Considering trucks and private vehicles on an equal
footing might produce inaccurate estimates of pavement deterioration and maintenance thresholds. Multi-class trafﬁc
assignment in which multiple types of vehicles are treated differently is one possible solution, which will be considered
in future research to make the maintenance planning more realistic. Another possible direction for the future research is
to consider uncertainty and include stochastic elements in pavement deterioration, inspection, and funding availability.
Note that although threshold-based maintenance rules are managerially attractive, the space of possible solutions
for maintenance plans is restricted and thus threshold-based rules are expected to be less effective than more general
maintenance rules. More research is required to understand the effectiveness of threshold-based maintenance under
different situations.
Acknowledgments
This work was supported by the National Science Council of Taiwan through research Grant NSC 100-2221-E-008-092.
The authors would like to thank the two anonymous referees for their constructive comments and suggestions on the paper.
We would also like to thank THI Consultants Inc. for providing valuable data for the numerical example.
Appendix A. Transforming hybrid dynamic models into mathematical programming problems
As Torrisi and Bemporad (2004) pointed out, hybrid dynamic models are easy to formulate and simulate. However, the
logical statements make the optimization cumbersome. Torrisi and Bemporad (2004) and Bemporad and Moran (1999)
summarized the formulas for converting logical statements to standard mathematical constraints. After the conversion,
hybrid models can be optimized using existing optimization tools. The conversions used in this research are summarized
below.
A.1. IF–THEN–ELSE (threshold)
In the event generator, an event can be triggered when the value of a continuous state crosses a threshold. The condition
of IF f(x) 6 0 THEN d = 1 ELSE d = 0 is equivalent to the following two constraints:
1138 J.C. Chu, Y.-J. Chen / Transportation Research Part B 46 (2012) 1123–1143
Author's personal copy
Appendix B. Mathematical programming formulations for the numerical example
This section describes how to convert the numerical example into standard mathematical programming problems using
the transformations introduced in Appendix A.
B.1. Event generator
Appendix A.1 shows how to convert a logical statement that determines whether a value is less than or equal to another
value into mathematical constraints. Using this conversion method, the formulations of the event generator that trigger
maintenance events (Eqs. (5)–(8)) are as follows. First, three intermediate events, d1IRIðn; tÞ, d2IRIðn; tÞ, and d1AGEðn; tÞ that will
be used to select maintenance actions later are deﬁned as Eqs. (B.1)–(B.3). That is, if XIRI(n, t) is less or equal to s1,
d1IRIðn; tÞ ¼ 1; otherwise, it is 0. The deﬁnitions are similar for the other two intermediate events. The three logical statements
can then be converted to mathematical constraints using Appendix A.1. Speciﬁcally, Eqs. (B.4a) and (B.4b) correspond to Eqs.
(B.1), (B.4c) and (B.4d) correspond to Eqs. (B.2), and (B.4e) and (B.4f) correspond to Eq. (B.3). Note that the upper and lower
bounds of pavement IRI and age must be provided in these constraints and they are determined as follows. The range of IRI
and its thresholds is [2,20] based on Section 2.1. Thus, the upper bounds of (XIRI(n, t)  s1) and (XIRI(n, t)  s2) would be 18
and its lower bound would be 18. Next, because the oldest pavement in the beginning of the planning is set to 30, which
is explained in Section 3.2, and the planning length is set to 10 years, the range of pavement ages and its thresholds is [0,40]
in the numerical example. Therefore, the upper bound of (XAGE(n, t)  s3) is 40 and its lower bound is  40.
d1IRIðn; tÞ ¼
1; if XIRIðn; tÞ 6 s1
0; otherwise

ðB:1Þ
d2IRIðn; tÞ ¼
1; if XIRIðn; tÞ 6 s2
0; otherwise

ðB:2Þ
d1AGEðn; tÞ ¼
1; if XAGEðn; tÞ 6 s3
0; otherwise

8n ¼ 1; . . . ;N; t ¼ 1; . . . ; T ðB:3Þ
XIRIðn; tÞ  s1 6 18 1 d1IRIðn; tÞ
  ðB:4aÞ
XIRIðn; tÞ  s1 P þ ð18 Þd1IRIðn; tÞ ðB:4bÞ
XIRIðn; tÞ  s2 6 18 1 d2IRIðn; tÞ
  ðB:4cÞ
XIRIðn; tÞ  s2 P þ ð18 Þd2IRIðn; tÞ ðB:4dÞ
XAGEðn; tÞ  s3 6 40 1 d1AGEðn; tÞ
  ðB:4eÞ
XAGEðn; tÞ  s3 P þ ð40Þd1AGEðn; tÞ 8n ¼ 1; . . . ;N; t ¼ 1; . . . ; T ðB:4fÞ
Next, the maintenance actions that should be selected can be determined using the values of these intermediate events as
shown in Fig. 2. The rules are summarized by Eqs. (B.5)–(B.8). Take Eq. (B.6) for example, where d1IRIðn; tÞ ¼ 1 and d2IRIðn; tÞ ¼ 0
indicate that XIRI(n, t) is between s1 and s2. If, in the same year, d1AGEðn; tÞ ¼ 1 (i.e., reconstruction is not required because the
pavement age is less than the age threshold for reconstruction), then fog seal should be applied to pavement n. The inter-
pretations are similar for the other three actions.
dNoActionðn; tÞ ¼ 1 if and only if d1IRIðn; tÞ ¼ 1 and d2IRIðn; tÞ ¼ 1 and d1AGEðn; tÞ ¼ 1 ðB:5Þ
dFogSealðn; tÞ ¼ 1 if and only if d1IRIðtÞ ¼ 1 and d2IRIðn; tÞ ¼ 0 and d1AGEðn; tÞ ¼ 1 ðB:6Þ
dOverlayðn; tÞ ¼ 1 if and only if d1IRIðn; tÞ ¼ 0 and d2IRIðn; tÞ ¼ 0 and d1AGEðn; tÞ ¼ 1 ðB:7Þ
dReconstðn; tÞ ¼ 1 if and only if d1AGEðn; tÞ ¼ 0 8n ¼ 1; . . . ;N; t ¼ 1; . . . ; T ðB:8Þ
To transform the above logic statements into standard constraints that can be solved with optimization tools, Appendix
A.3 for converting IF–AND–ONLY–IF statements can be used to obtain the following constraints that are equivalent to Eq.
(B.5):
dNoActionðn; tÞ 6 d1IRIðn; tÞ ðB:9aÞ
dNoActionðn; tÞ 6 d2IRIðn; tÞ ðB:9bÞ
dNoActionðn; tÞ 6 d1AGEðn; tÞ ðB:9cÞ
d1IRIðn; tÞ þ d2IRIðn; tÞ þ d1AGEðn; tÞ 6 dNoActionðn; tÞ þ 2 ðB:9dÞ
8n ¼ 1; . . . ;N; t ¼ 1; . . . ; T
The constraints equivalent to Eq. (B.6) are:
1140 J.C. Chu, Y.-J. Chen / Transportation Research Part B 46 (2012) 1123–1143
Author's personal copy
B.1.3. Switched systems
Eqs. (B.15a)–(B.15d) are the equivalent constraints for Eq. (26), which were obtained using Appendix A.2. Because the
pavement ages are between 0 and 30 and the planning horizon is 10 years, the upper bound of XAGE(n, t) would be 40 and
the lower bound would be 0, which explains the values used in the conversion.
 40imðn; tÞ þ XmAGEðn; tÞ 6 0 ðB:15aÞ
 0 imðn; tÞ þ XmAGEðn; tÞP 0 ðB:15bÞ
0 ð1 imðn; tÞÞ þ XmAGEðn; tÞ 6 gmAGE þ /mAGEXAGEðn; tÞ ðB:15cÞ
40ð1 imðn; tÞÞ þ XmAGEðn; tÞP gmAGE þ /mAGEXAGEðn; tÞ 8n ¼ 1; . . . ;N; t ¼ 1; . . . ; T; m ¼ 1; . . . ;M ðB:15dÞ
Eqs. (B.16a)–(B.16d) are the equivalent constraint of Eq. (28), which were also obtained using Appendix A.2. In the con-
version, the values for the upper and lower bounds are based on the IRI range of [2,20].
 20imðn; tÞ þ XmIRIðn; tÞ 6 0 ðB:16aÞ
 2 imðn; tÞ þ XmIRIðn; tÞP 0 ðB:16bÞ
2ð1 imðn; tÞÞ þ XmIRIðn; tÞ 6 gmIRI þ /mIRIXIRIðn; tÞ
þ /mIRIXAGEðn;tÞþ1
274
ð1þ SNCðn; tÞÞ5 Uðn; tÞ ðB:16cÞ
20ð1 imðn; tÞÞ þ XmIRIðn; tÞP gmIRI þ /mIRIXIRIðn; tÞ
þ /mIRIXAGEðn;tÞþ1
274
ð1þ SNCðn; tÞÞ5 Uðn; tÞ 8n ¼ 1; . . . ;N; t ¼ 1; . . . ; T; m ¼ 1; . . . ;M ðB:16dÞ
B.1.4. Computer implementation issues
Numerical errors occur in digital computers due to considerations related to round-off, precision, and the way real num-
bers are represented digitally. To speed up computation, optimization tools such as CPLEX and KNITRO often allow small
errors in the feasibility of constraints. That is, when a constraint is violated by a very small amount, the constraint is regarded
as satisﬁed to reduce the computation time. This usually does not cause problems because the magnitude of such errors is far
less than the signiﬁcant digits of variables in practice. However, the tolerance for such errors is considerably smaller in
threshold-based maintenance models. The reason is that these models consist of logical statements, and numeral errors
in these statements potentially lead to complete breakdown of the whole model. For example, the results in the scenarios
considered are unstable when the continuous states and thresholds are close. Speciﬁcally, when XIRI(n, t) 6 s1, Eq. (B.4a)
has no effect on d1IRIðn; tÞ but Eq. (B.4b) indicates that d1IRIðn; tÞmust be 1. However, consider the situation where XIRI(n, t) 6 s1
but XIRI(n, t) and s1 are very close. In this situation, if jXIRI(n, t)  s1  j is within the feasibility tolerance, d1IRI ¼ 0 also satisﬁes
Eq. (B.4b). In other words, if XIRI(n, t) and s1 are very close, the comparison between XIRI(n, t) and s1 is not accurate and d1IRI
could be either 0 or 1. Similarly, d2IRI is also unstable when XIRI(n, t) and s2 are close; see Eqs. (B.4c) and (B.4d). These errors
could lead to incorrect selection of maintenance actions. This problem is the most serious when d1IRI ¼ d2IRI , which occurs when
fog seal should never be selected. In this situation, because the generation of both events is unstable when IRI is close to both
of them, contradictory combinations of d1IRI and d
2
IRI might be generated, e.g., d
1
IRI ¼ 0 and d2IRI ¼ 1 do not correspond to any of
the conditions in Eqs. (B.5)–(B.8). As a result, none of the maintenance actions and the deterioration modes would be se-
lected and the whole optimization procedure would fail. Therefore, the tolerance parameters in optimization tools must
be carefully considered to improve the correctness of the results for the threshold-based maintenance models.
References
American Association of State Highway and Transportation Ofﬁcials, 1993. AASHTO Guide for Design of Pavement Structures 1993. American Association of
State Highway and Transportation Ofﬁcials, Washington, DC, USA.
Bemporad, A., Moran, M., 1999. Control of systems integrating logic, dynamics, and constraints. Automatica 35 (3), 407–428.
Chandra, S., 2004. Effect of road roughness on capacity of two-lane roads. Journal of Transportation Engineering 130 (3), 360–364.
Chang, C.-C., 2001. Study for Establishing Flexible Pavement Network-level Maintenance Management Systems. Ph.D. Thesis, Department of Civil
Engineering, National Central University, Taiwan (in Chinese).
Childress, S., Durango-Cohen, P., 2005. On parallel machine replacement problems with general replacement cost functions and stochastic deterioration.
Naval Research Logistics 52 (5), 409–419.
Chu, C.-Y., Durango-Cohen, P.L., 2008. Incorporating maintenance effectiveness in the estimation of dynamic infrastructure performance models. Computer-
Aided Civil and Infrastructure Engineering 23 (3), 174–188.
Dekker, R., 1996. Applications of maintenance optimization models: a review and analysis. Reliability Engineering & System Safety 51 (3), 229–240.
Dekker, R., Wildeman, R., van der Duyn Schouten, F., 1997. A review of multi-component maintenance models with economic dependence. Mathematical
Methods of Operations Research 45 (3), 411–435.
Durango-Cohen, P., Sarutipand, P., 2009. Maintenance optimization for transportation systems with demand responsiveness. Transportation Research Part C
17 (4), 337–348.
Durango-Cohen, P.L., Sarutipand, P., 2007. Capturing interdependencies and heterogeneity in the management of multifacility transportation infrastructure
systems. Journal of Infrastructure Systems 13 (2), 115–123.
Frangopol, D.M., Kong, J.S., Gharaibeh, E.S., 2001. Reliability-based life-cycle management of highway bridges. Journal of Computing in Civil Engineering 15
(1).
1142 J.C. Chu, Y.-J. Chen / Transportation Research Part B 46 (2012) 1123–1143
 1 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                               日期：102年 1月 28日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
 
該研討會之論文簡報時間為每人 15分鐘，進行方式為作者簡報及問答時間，本人之
論文簡報時間為 10月 4日下午，簡報過程十分順利，聽眾發問踴躍，在場次結束後以及
用餐時間中有機會與研究興趣相同之各國學者及研究人員交換意見以及聯絡方式，充分
達到國際學術交流之目的。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
The 3rd Symposium of the International Association for Life-Cycle Engineering 
(IALCCE)，平均每兩年舉辦一次，研討會內容著重在土木設施之生命週期管理，吸引
世界各國學界及產業界人士共襄盛舉，在摘要及全文審查階段皆經過嚴格的篩選，全
文論文集為正式出版，研討會之水準甚高，對於本人之專業知識提昇有極大助益。 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
 
無 
 
四、建議 
 
本人此次榮獲國科會補助出國參加國際會議，見識許多最新研究與應用，對於本人在
相關研究領域的新知吸收以及啟發有極大的助益，另外，本人的研究成果亦可藉此機會向
計畫 
編號 
NSC 100-2221-E-008-092 
計畫 
名稱 
最佳門檻值維護策略下之運輸設施生命週期管理 
出國
人員
姓名 
朱致遠 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立中央大學土木工程學系 
會議 
時間 
101年 10月 3日至 
101年 10月 6日 會議地點 
奧地利維也納 
會議 
名稱 
(中文) 
(英文) The 3rd Symposium of the International Association for Life-Cycle 
Engineering (IALCCE) 
發表
論文
題目 
(中文) 
(英文) Threshold-based network-level transportation infrastructure 
management 
IALCCE 2012
Final Program 
Third International Symposium on
Life-Cycle Civil Engineering
Hofburg Palace, Vienna, Austria  |  October 3 - 6, 2012
University of Natural Resources 
and Life Sciences
IA
LC
C
E 
20
12
Th
ird
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l S
ym
po
si
um
 o
n
Li
fe
-C
yc
le
 C
iv
il 
En
g
in
ee
ri
ng
1
Civil engineering structures have to meet long-term availability and sustainability requirements, 
with particular emphasis placed on technical safety, efficiency and ecology. Life-cycle civil engi-
neering relates to the design, inspection, monitoring, assessment, maintenance, and rehabilita-
tion of civil engineering structures in order to effectively manage the function of these structures 
throughout their lifetime.
The objective of the International Association for Life-Cycle Civil Engineering (IALCCE) is to pro-
mote international cooperation in the fields of life-cycle civil engineering for the purpose of en-
hancing the welfare of society (http://www.ialcce.org). For this reason, it was deemed appropriate 
to bring together all the very best work that has been undertaken in the field of life-cycle civil 
engineering at the Third International Symposium on Life-Cycle Civil Engineering (IALCCE 2012) 
held in one of Vienna’s most famous venues, the Hofburg Palace, October 3-6, 2012. The First 
International Symposium on Life-Cycle Civil Engineering (IALCCE 2008) was held in Varenna, Lake 
Como, Italy (June 10-14, 2008), and the Second International Symposium on Life-Cycle Civil Engi-
neering (IALCCE 2010) was held in Taipei, Taiwan (October 27-30, 2010).
IALCCE 2012 has been organized on behalf of the IALCCE under the auspices of the University of 
Natural Resources and Life Sciences, Vienna (BOKU). This four-day symposium encompasses all as-
pects of life-cycle civil engineering. The interest of the international civil engineering community in 
fields covered by the IALCCE has been confirmed by the significant response to the IALCCE 2012 
call for papers. In fact, over 600 abstracts from 53 countries were received by the Symposium Sec-
retariat, and approximately 60% of them were selected for publication. Contributions presented at 
IALCCE 2012 deal with state-of-the-art as well as emerging applications related to the key aspects 
of the life-cycle civil engineering field.
All major aspects of life-cycle engineering are addressed, including aging of structures, deteriora-
tion modeling, durable materials, earthquake and accidental loadings, sustainability, fatigue and 
damage, structure-environment interaction, design for durability, failure analysis and risk preven-
tion, lifetime structural optimization, long-term performance analysis, performance-based design, 
service life prediction, time–variant reliability, uncertainty modeling, damage identification, field 
testing, health monitoring, inspection and evaluation, maintenance strategies, rehabilitation tech-
niques, strengthening and repair, structural integrity, decision making processes, human factors 
in life-cycle engineering, life-cycle cost models, project management, lifetime risk analysis and 
optimization, whole life costing, artificial intelligence methods, bridges and viaducts, high rise 
buildings, offshore structures, precast systems, runway and highway pavements, tunnels and un-
derground structures.
The proceeding Life-Cycle and Sustainability of Civil Infrastructure Systems contains the lectures 
and papers presented at the Third International Symposium on Life-Cycle Civil Engineering. It 
consists of a book of extended abstracts and a DVD with 345 full papers presented at IALCCE 
2012, including the Fazlur R. Khan Lecture, 10 Keynote Lectures and 334 Technical Papers from 
52 countries.
The aim of the editors is to provide a valuable source for anyone interested in life-cycle and sus-
tainability of civil infrastructure systems, including students, researchers and practitioners from all 
areas of engineering and industry.
On behalf of the International Assocation for Life-Cycle Civil Engineering and the University of 
Natural Resources and Life Sciences, the chairs wish to wholeheartedly thank all contributing au-
thors and those individuals who were actively involved in the organization of the IALCCE 2012 
Symposium and in the production of the Proceedings. The chairs also wish to acknowledge the 
members of the International Scientific Committee and the National Advisory Committee for their 
efforts. In addition, the chairs would like to thank the members of the National Organizing Commit-
tee for their time and efforts dedicated in making IALCCE 2012 a successful event.
The chairs also take this opportunity to thank all sponsors, whose support contributed to the 
success of this Symposium. A special acknowledgment must also be given to the University of 
Natural Resources and Life Sciences, Vienna (BOKU) for organizing and co-sponsoring the Sym-
posium along with the International Association for Life–Cycle Civil Engineering (IALCCE), as well 
as BOKU’s Department of Civil Engineering and Natural Hazards, whose support facilitated the 
Symposium’s organization.
We look forward to meet you all at the IALCCE 2012 symposium.
Sincerely,
Alfred Strauss, Dan M. Frangopol, Konrad Bergmeister
Chairs IALCCE 2012
Vienna, Austria and Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, USA, August 2012
Alfred Strauss
University of Natural
Resources and Life Sciences
Vienna, Austria
Chair, IALCCE 2012
Konrad Bergmeister
University of Natural
Resources and Life Sciences
Vienna, Austria
Chair, IALCCE 2012
Dan M. Frangopol
Lehigh University
Bethlehem, PA, USA
Chair, IALCCE 2012
Welcome to IALCCE 2012
IA
LC
C
E 
20
12
Th
ird
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l S
ym
po
si
um
 o
n
Li
fe
-C
yc
le
 C
iv
il 
En
g
in
ee
ri
ng
3
Symposium Organization
ORGANIZING ASSOCIATION
IALCCE
International Association for Life-Cycle Civil 
Engineering, http://www.ialcce.org
ORGANIZING INSTITUTION
BOKU
University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences, 
Vienna, Austria, http://www.boku.ac.at  
SYMPOSIUM CHAIRS
Alfred Strauss, University of Natural Resources 
and Life Sciences, Vienna, Austria
Dan M. Frangopol, Lehigh University, Bethlehem, 
PA, USA
Konrad Bergmeister, University of Natural 
Resources and Life Sciences, Vienna, Austria
STEERING COMMITTEE
Dan M. Frangopol, Lehigh University, Bethlehem, 
PA, USA (Chair)
Alfredo H-S. Ang, University of California, Irvine, 
CA, USA
Konrad Bergmeister, University of Natural 
Resources and Life Sciences, Vienna, Austria
Fabio Biondini, Politecnico di Milano, Milan, Italy
Christian Bucher, Vienna University of 
Technology, Vienna, Austria
Airong Chen, Tongji University, Shanghai, China
Shi-Shuenn Chen, National Taiwan University of 
Science and Technology, Taipei City, Taiwan
Moe Cheung, The Hong Kong University of 
Science and Technology, Hong Kong, P.R.C.
Hyo-Nam Cho, Hanyang University, Ansan, Korea
Andrea Del Grosso, University of Genoa, Genoa, 
Italy
Luis Esteva, National University of Mexico, 
Mexico City, Mexico 
Hitoshi Furuta, Kansai University, Osaka, Japan
Raffaele Landolfo, University of Naples 
‘Federico II’, Naples, Italy
Seng-Lip Lee, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore
Jie Li, Tongji University, Shanghai, China
Xila Liu, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China
Robert Melchers, The University of Newcastle, 
Newcastle, Australia
Trogeir Moan, Norwegian University of Science 
and Technology, Trondheim, Norway
Drahomir Novák, Brno University of Technology, 
Brno, Czech Republic
Udo Peil, Technical University of Braunschweig, 
Braunschweig, Germany
Mark Sarkisian, Skidmore, Owings & Merrill LLP, 
San Francisco, CA, USA
Alfred Strauss, University of Natural Resources 
and Life Sciences, Vienna, Austria
INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC COMMITTEE
Alfredo H-S. Ang, University of California, Irvine, 
CA, USA (Chair)
Dan M. Frangopol, Lehigh University, Bethlehem, 
PA, USA (Ex Officio)
Mitsuyoshi Akiyama, Tohoku University, Sendai, 
Japan
Gabriela Atanasiu, Technical University 
‘Gheorghe Asachi’ of Iasi, Iasi, Romania
Jaap Bakker, Rijkwaterstaat, Utrecht, 
The Netherlands
Konrad Bergmeister, University of Natural 
Resources and Life Sciences, Vienna, Austria
Paolo Bocchini, Lehigh University, Bethlehem, PA, 
USA
Franco Bontempi, Sapienza University of Rome, 
Rome, Italy
University of Natural Resources 
and Life Sciences
IA
LC
C
E 
20
12
Th
ird
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l S
ym
po
si
um
 o
n
Li
fe
-C
yc
le
 C
iv
il 
En
g
in
ee
ri
ng
5
Symposium Organization
Pier Giorgio Malerba, Politecnico di Milano, 
Milan, Italy
Michael Malindretos, Aristoteles University, 
Thessaloniki, Greece
Rainer Mallee, Fischerwerke GmbH & Co. 
KG, Waldachtal, Germany
Giuseppe Mancini, Politecnico di Torino, Torino, 
Italy
Stuart Matthews, Building Research 
Establishment, Ashurstwood, UK
Peter Maydl, Graz University of Technology, Graz, 
Austria
Thomas Messervey, D’Appolonia S.p.A, Genoa, 
Italy
Ayaho Miyamoto, Yamaguchi University, Ube, 
Japan
Aftab Mufti, ISIS Canada Research Network, 
Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada
Luis Neves, Technical University of Lisbon, Lisbon, 
Portugal
Andrzej S. Nowak, University of Nebraska, 
Lincoln, USA
Dirk Proske, University of Natural Resources and 
Life Sciences, Vienna, Austria
Radomir Pukl, Cervenka Consulting, Prague, 
Czech Republic
Ser-Tong Quek, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore
Norbert Randl, Carinthia University of Applied 
Sciences, Spittal/Drau, Austria
Stefani Reese, RWTH Aachen University, Aachen, 
Germany 
Michael Reiterer, RED Bernard GmbH, Vienna, 
Austria
Xin Ruan, Tongji University, Shanghai, China
Horea Sandi, Romanian Academy, Bucharest, 
Romania
Richard Sause, Lehigh University, Bethlehem, PA, 
USA
Thomas Simandl, ÖBB-Infrastruktur AG, Vienna, 
Austria
Mark Stewart, University of Newcastle, 
Newcastle, Australia
Luc Taerwe, University of Ghent, Ghent, Belgium
Man-Chung Tang, T.Y. Lin International, 
San Francisco, CA, USA
Bretislav Teplý, Brno University of Technology, 
Brno, Czech Republic
Martin Treberspurg, University of Natural 
Resources and Life Sciences, Vienna, Austria
Yiannis Tsompanakis, Technical University of 
Crete, Crete, Greece
Thomas Ummenhofer, KIT - Karlsruher Institut für 
Technologie, Karlsruhe, Germany
Peter Veit, Graz University of Technology, Graz, 
Austria
Holger Wallbaum, ETH Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland
Eiichi Watanabe, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan
Roman Wendner, University of Natural Resources 
and Life Sciences, Vienna, Austria
Helmut Wenzel, VCE - Vienna Consulting 
Engineers, Vienna, Austria
Wei Wu, University of Natural Resources and Life 
Sciences, Vienna, Austria
NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Christian Bucher, Vienna University of 
Technology, Vienna, Austria (Chair)
Peter Maydl, Graz University of Technology, Graz, 
Austria (Chair)
Peter Veit, Graz University of Technology, Graz, 
Austria (Chair)
Oliver Englhardt, Graz University of Technology, 
Graz, Austria (Chair)
Sonja Felber, Vienna University of Technology, 
Vienna, Austria
Jürgen Feix, University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, 
Austria
Florin Florineth, University of Natural Resources 
and Life Sciences, Vienna, Austria
Günter Hofstetter, University of Innsbruck, 
Innsbruck, Austria
Johannes Hübl, University of Natural Resources 
and Life Sciences, Vienna, Austria
IA
LC
C
E 
20
12
Th
ird
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l S
ym
po
si
um
 o
n
Li
fe
-C
yc
le
 C
iv
il 
En
g
in
ee
ri
ng
7
Symposium Sponsors
Lebensministerium
Austrian Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and 
Water Management (BMLFUW)
Bundesministerium für Wirtschaft, Familie und Jugend
Austrian Federal Ministry of Economy, Family and Youth (BMLFUW)
Stadt Wien
City of Vienna
Steiermärkische Landesregierung
Office of Styria
Burgenländische Landesregierung
Office of Burgenland
Androsch International Management Consulting GmbH
SUPPORTING LOCAL AUTHORITIES
IA
LC
C
E 
20
12
Th
ird
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l S
ym
po
si
um
 o
n
Li
fe
-C
yc
le
 C
iv
il 
En
g
in
ee
ri
ng
9
Symposium Information
VENUE
HOFBURG VIENNA
Botschafterstiege, Schweizerhof, 1010 Vienna
SECRETARIAT OFFICE
IALCCE 2012 SECRETARIAT
University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences, 
Peter-Jordan Strasse 82, 1190 Vienna 
SLIDE CENTER & PRESENTATION GUIDELINES
Speakers will not be allowed to use their personal 
laptop computers for presentations. Presenations 
saved on a USB key or DVD/CD-Rom have to be 
brought to the Slide Center and uploaded in the 
conference room network at least 24 hours prior 
to the start of the Session. The Slide Center is lo-
cated at Level 1 of the Hofburg Palace. Speakers 
are kindly requested to carefully check their pre-
senation at the Slide Center at least 60 minutes be-
fore the start of the Session. Technicians will assist 
Speakers to preview their presentation to ensure 
that they display correctly on the screens. Speakers 
are also required to fill out the Speaker Information 
Form and deliver it to the Session Chairs at least 15 
minutes before the Session begins.
WI-FI & INTERNET POINT
WI-FI internet access will be available inside the 
Hofburg Palace. An internet point is also available 
at Level 1 (Slide Center in the Radetzky Appart-
ment II). User ID and passwords are required for 
internet access and are available to all registered 
participants.
ON-SITE REGISTRATION
Registration may be undertaken in the Hofburg 
Palace’s Ambassador’s Staircase (Botschafterstiege 
on Level 0) for the duration of the symposium with-
in the opening hours of the Registration desk:
Wednesday, 3 October          15.00 - 19.00
Thursday, 4 October           07.00 - 18.30
Friday, 5 October          07.00 - 19.00
Saturday, 6 October          07.00 - 16.00
REGISTRATION FEES
Delegate - IALCCE Member (a) EUR 700
Delegate - IALCCE Non Member (b) EUR 800
Students (c) EUR 450
Students (under 26 years) (d) EUR 300
Accompanying Persons (e) EUR 250
(a), (b) Symposium attendance, proceedings (Book 
DVD), Symposium bag, Welcome Reception, 
lunches, coffee breaks, Gala Evening and Farewell 
Party.
(c), (d) Symposium attendance, proceedings (DVD 
only), Symposium bag, Welcome Reception, lunch-
es and coffee breaks. Students need to provide 
proof of their status to complete the registration.
(e) Welcome Reception, lunches, Gala Evening and 
Farewell Party.
SYMPOSIUM BADGE
Participants are kindly requested to wear their sym-
posium badge at all times during the symposium. 
PERSONAL PROPERTY
Participants are invited to take good care of their 
personal belongings and to not leave them unat-
tended. Neither the symposium organizers nor 
their staff will be responsible for any loss of or dam-
age to personal property of participants.
COFFEE BREAKS
Coffee breaks will be offered to all participants 
twice a day, in the morning (between 10.00 - 10.30 
or 10.30 - 11.00) and in the afternoon (between 
15.30 - 16.00 or 16.00 - 16.30), and will be served in 
the Marbel Hall, the Antechamber and the Knight’s 
Hall on Level 1 of the Hofburg Palace.
OPENING CEREMONY
The Opening Ceremony will take place on Thurs-
day, 4 October from 08.15 - 09.00 in the Hall of 
Ceremonies on Level 1 of the Hofburg Palace.
IA
LC
C
E 
20
12
Th
ird
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l S
ym
po
si
um
 o
n
Li
fe
-C
yc
le
 C
iv
il 
En
g
in
ee
ri
ng
11
Symposium Overview
TIME
07.00
09.00
08.15
08.00
09.30
10.00
17.00
13.30
10.30
17.30
14.00
11.00
18.00
18.15
14.30
11.30
18.30
18.45
20.30
15.00
12.00
19.00
21.00
15.30
12.30
19.30
21.30
16.00
16.15
13.00
20.00
16.30
08.00
09.30
09.00
08.15
10.00
10.30
17.30
14.00
11.00
18.00
14.30
11.30
18.15
18.30
15.00
12.00
18.45
19.00
21.00
15.30
12.30
19.30
21.30
16.00
13.00
20.00
23.30
16.15
16.30
13.30
20.30
17.00
Welcome 
Reception
Hall of Ceremonies,
Hofburg Palace
Gala
Evening
Festival Hall,
Town Hall
(Rathaus)
Registration
Registration Registration Registration
Opening 
Ceremony
General 
Assembly
Closing
Ceremony
Fazlur R. Khan
Lecture
Keynote
Lectures
Keynote
Lectures
Keynote
Lectures
ThM 
Sessions
FrM 
Sessions
SaM 
Sessions
ThA 
Sessions
FrA 
Sessions
SaA 
Sessions
ThE 
Sessions
FrE 
Sessions
Farewell
Heuriger 
Evening,
Neustift
Coffee Break
Coffee Break Coffee Break
Coffee Break
Coffee Break
Lunch
Lunch Lunch
3 OCT. (WE) 4 OCT. (TH) 5 OCT. (FR) 6 OCT. (SA)
Re
gi
st
ra
tio
n
Re
gi
st
ra
tio
n
Re
gi
st
ra
tio
n
Ex
hi
bi
tio
n
Ex
hi
bi
tio
n
Ex
hi
bi
tio
n
IALCCE 2012 Third International Symposium onLife-Cycle Civil Engineering
13
Concurrent Technical Sessions (ThM 1-3)         11.00 - 13.00 | Thursday Morning, 4 October 2012
ThM-1 Hall of Ceremonies ThM-2 Artists’ Room ThM-3 Trabantenstube
Mini-Symposium: Maintenance and rehabilitation of aged 
bridges
Special Session: Life-cycle and reliability assessment of an-
chorage systems in concrete, masonry and steel construction Special Session: Management of existing building stocks
Chairs: M.A. Ahrens & P. Mark Chairs: R. Mihala & J. Hofmann Chairs: K. Lennerts & U. Ertl-Balga
Asset management and life-cycle cost optimization for bridges 
on network, asset and element level
M. Hoffmann & A. Kammersberger
Sustained load performance of adhesive anchor systems in 
concrete
T.M. Davis, R.A. Cook, R. Blochwitz & J. Hofmann
LCC as a decision tool for strategic development of the public 
building portfolio: A Norwegian study
T. Meistad, M.S. Valen, H. Brattas & H. Gissinger
Technical cycle of modern bridge maintenance – an overview
P. Mark, M.A. Ahrens & Ch. Fust
Time-to-failure behavior of epoxy based bonded anchor 
systems
R. Blochwitz, J. Hofmann, R.A. Cook & T.M. Davis
MultiMap: A tool for strategic analysis of building portfolios 
S. Bjørberg, A.K. Larssen & Ch.A. Listerud
Bridge management and effective tools to ensure sustainable 
construction schedules
T. Tzaveas
Service life design for bonded anchors - a rheological 
approach 
T. Kraenkel, D. Lowke & C. Gehlen
Decision aiding & multi criteria optimization for existing 
buildings holistic retrofit
M. Rivallain, P.E. Leger, O. Baverel & B. Peuportier
Modern bridge stock management in a regional metropolis – 
structural assessment, data management and cost control
A. Blome, H. Neuß, P. Mark & U. Lambertz
Gluing to masonry for efficient and sustainable anchoring
C. Kurz, & J. Hofmann
The challenge of existing building stocks
C. Bahr, J. Bossmann & K. Lennerts
Examples of different strategies of bridge preservation: Part 1
T. Klöker & D. Lehnen
Serviceability and ultimate limit states for anchorages in con-
crete - effects of assembly tolerances
P. Spyridis, A. Unterweger, S. Lachinger & K. Bergmeister
The Bridge-Management-System (BMS) in Germany as a basis 
for life-cycle considerations
R. Holst
Examples of different strategies of bridge preservation: Part 2
D. Lehnen & T. Klöker
The functionality of fasteners with small embedment depth in 
carbonated concrete
M. Stipetic & J. Hofmann
Cost-benefits and environmental impact of seismic retrofit for 
low-rise reinforced concrete buildings
C.-K. Chiu
Inspection and maintenance of the orthotropic deck of 
Avonmouth Bridge
B.I. Frey
Aspects of long-term behaviour of power-actuated fastenings 
made to steel and concrete
H. Beck
Seismic insurance market for the Italian building stock
D. Asprone, F. Jalayer, G. Manfredi, S. Simonelli & A. Acconcia
Strengthening of existing bridge decks by additional concrete 
layers – new research results and design rules 
J. Feix & A. Andreatta
Durability proof of steel metal screws in accordance with 
European technical approvals
M. Siemers
Numerical simulations of occupants evacuation within the 
context of life-cycle engineering in building construction
C. Albrecht, D. Hosser, W. Abu Abed, N. Rinke & V. Berkhahn
Implementation of the basic requirement ‘sustainability’ on 
construction works according to the construction products 
regulation in the field of anchor technology
G. Lange
Sym
posium
 O
verview
IALCCE 2012 Third International Symposium onLife-Cycle Civil Engineering
15
Concurrent Technical Sessions (ThA 1-3)       14.00 - 16.00 | Thursday Afternoon, 4 October 2012
ThA-1 Hall of Ceremonies ThA-2 Artists’ Room ThA-3 Trabantenstube
Mini-Symposium: Life-cycle cost analyses Mini-Symposium: Maintenance and rehabilitation of aged bridges
Special Session: Life-cycle design and engineering of facades 
and building envelopes
Chairs: H.G. Jodl & P. Veit Chairs: M.A. Ahrens & P. Mark Chairs: O. Englhardt & A. Merl
Life-cycle cost analysis considerations for accelerated bridge 
construction
U. Attanayake, A.W. Mohammed, Y. Hu, O. Abudayyeh & 
H.M. Aktan
The application of sacrificial cathodic protection as a
corrosion control measure for the protection of reinforced
concrete bridges
M. Moore, F. Jesmin, S. Tao & A. Beedles
Implementation of energy efficient measures in apartments in 
Macedonia
T. Samardzioska, M. Cvetkovska, M. Lazarevska & 
A.T. Gavriloska
Life-cycle cost management for newly constructed 
infrastructure
J.D. Bakker, J. Helmer & J. Schavemaker
Precision-assessment of lifetime prognoses based on SN-
approaches of RC-structures exposed to fatigue loads
M.A. Ahrens
Parameter study of a prefabricated retrofit façade system
S. Ott & S. Winter
Challenges for RAMS/LCC analysis of railway rails
A. Lamik & G. Girsch
Nondestructive evaluation of stress state of steel bars 
reinforcing concrete structures
E. Schneider, S.-K. Balijepalli, Ch. Boller, P. Bindseil & W. Kurz
Life-cycle of building’s facades: Service life prediction of 
natural stone wall claddings using the factor method
A. Silva, J. de Brito & P.L. Gaspar
The calculation of life-cycle costs for road tunnels under the 
influence of uncertainties
P. Vogt & M. Thewes
Structural flexibility in relation to integrated service life design 
of buildings
R. Blok & E. Koopman
Analysis of influence of water vapor condensation in building 
construction envelopes
J. Skramlik, O. Fuciman, M. Novotny & Z. Mastna
Life-cycle financial modeling of long term infrastructure 
projects “PPP-BOT Projects” under uncertainty and risk
M. Attarzadeh, D. Kin Huat Chua, L. Zhu & M. Beer
Analysis of influential factors and association rules for bridge 
deterioration using national bridge inventory data
R.-Y. Huang & P.-F. Chen
Decision support method for flat roofs with focus on life-cycle 
costs using a probabilistic method
C. Harreither, T. Bednar & B. Nusser
Life-cycle costs of tunnels
J. Schwarz, S. Engelhardt, & M. Keuser 
Estimation of steel weight loss due to corrosion in RC 
members based on digital image processing of X-ray 
photogram
M. Akiyama & D.M. Frangopol
Optimizing a structure’s life with genetic algorithms and 
emergence theory 
M.P. Sarkisian
Monitoring of an LCC-oriented maintenance of rail routes
G. Eibinger & U. Puz (M. Oberegger)
Rehabilitation of concrete bridges using Ultra-High 
Performance Fibre Reinforced Concrete (UHPFRC)
E. Brühwiler
The development of combined LCC analysis system for
bundling public facility maintenance
C.K. Lee & T.K. Park
Stochastic cost estimation for large infrastructure projects: A 
computational framework
A.E. Tamparopoulos, D. Alfreider & K. Bergmeister
Flexible floor slab systems for long service life
J. Hegger, M. Claßen, T. Dreßen & J. Gallwoszus
Development and verification of a typhoon wind hazard model 
for Taipei
R.-H. Cherng, W.-C. Hsu, C.-C. Li & C.-S. Chen
Sym
posium
 O
verview
IALCCE 2012 Third International Symposium onLife-Cycle Civil Engineering
17
Concurrent Technical Sessions (ThE 1-3)         16.30 - 18.30 | Thursday Evening, 4 October 2012
ThE-1 Hall of Ceremonies ThE-2 Artists’ Room ThE-3 Trabantenstube
Special Session: Seismic system identification for life-time-
prediction (SEISMID)
Special Session: Actions and interventions upon existing 
structures
General Session: Uncertainties in life-cycle assessments and
reliability engineering / Structural and thermal retrofitting of
buildings
Chairs: H. Wenzel & C. Adam Chairs: R. Caspeele & M. Sykora Chairs: J. Li & X. Gao
Remote sensing and GIS contribution to earthquake disaster 
preparedness in the Vienna area
B. Theilen-Willige, H. Wenzel & P. Furtner
Target reliability levels for the assessment of existing structures 
– case study
M. Sykora & M. Holický
New envelopes for old buildings – the potential of using 
membrane systems for the thermal retrofitting of existing 
buildings
W. Lang, J. Cremers, A. Beck & J. Manara
The assessment of soil-structure-interaction by measurements
F. Kopf, A. Bekö, D. Schäfer, M. Pietsch & L. Rossbacher
Evaluation of Bayesian updated partial factors for material 
properties in existing concrete structures
R. Caspeele & L. Taerwe
Indicators for sustainability assessment of renewables
P. Schaumann, A. Bechtel, H.-J. Wagner & N. Stranghöner
Seismic capacity of old masonry buildings in Vienna: 
Numerical modeling of load-bearing brick masonry walls
T. Furtmüller & C. Adam
Girder shear resistance assessment – applications of SIA 269/2
D. Zwicky
Seismic reliability and LCCs of a RC buildings considering 
earthquake events within a specified service period
C.-K. Chiu & W.-Y. Jean
Seismic capacity of old masonry buildings in Vienna: Labora-
tory testing on bricks, mortar, and small-scale brick masonry
T. Furtmüller, C. Adam & C. Niederegger
Verification of older prestressed concrete road bridges 
according to the German structural assessment provisions
D. Dunkelberg, K. Zilch, M. Hennecke & M. Heinze
The research on the time-dependence of recurrence times of 
great earthquakes based on the historical records in North 
area of China
Z.H. Chen & X.L. Liu
Evaluation of the safety index of old masonry buildings in 
Vienna: Non-linear analysis based on seismic capacity
T. Zimmermann & A. Strauss
Load-carrying capacity and refurbishment of a historic RC 
Vierendeel bridge
P. Van Bogaert
Construction rating attempt under life-cycle design
D. Grecea, M. Georgescu & M. Szitar
Assessment of the global dynamic behavior of a historic 
residential brick-masonry building in Vienna
G. Achs & C. Adam
Decision making tool for seismic retrofit of existing structures 
based on marginal costs and actualized costs of the 
retrofitting operations 
D. Asprone, F. Jalayer, A. Prota & R. Russo
Life-cycle considerations for reinforced concrete structures in
case of fire with respect to spalling
F. Tabeling, P. Schaumann, F. Cramer, D. Dinkler, C. Albrecht &
D. Hosser
Measurement principles for masonry buildings
F. Kopf, D. Schäfer, M. Pietsch & L. Rossbacher
Rehabilitation design methodology for public hospital using 
seismic monitoring throughout structural life-cycle
G.M. Atanasiu & V. Murarasu
Wooden products – positive material in life-cycle analysis
A. Hafner, S. Winter & A. Takano
Post-earthquake geomatic survey of a monumental building in 
L’Aquila, Italy
D. Dominici, M. Elaiopoulos, D. Galeota & A. Gregori
Verification of existing reinforced concrete structures using the
design value method
M. Sykora & M. Holický
“Mountain wood vs. lowland wood”, an ecological process
assessment – a case study
A. Kraler, V. Krismer & G. Wieland
Sym
posium
 O
verview
IA
LC
C
E 
20
12
Th
ird
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l S
ym
po
si
um
 o
n
Li
fe
-C
yc
le
 C
iv
il 
En
g
in
ee
ri
ng
19
Keynote Lectures 08.00 - 10.00 | Chairs: B.R. Ellingwood & D. Novák
Minimizing the effects of uncertainty in life-cycle engineering
A.H.-S. Ang
Structural damage accumulation and control for life-cycle optimum seismic performance of buildings
L. Esteva
Sustainable asset preservation at the Austrian Federal Railways
A. Matthä
Life-cycle design for the world’s longest tunnel project
K. Bergmeister
Concurrent Technical Sessions 10.30 - 12.30
FrM-1 Vibration-based health monitoring, damage identification, and parameter estimation for civil engineering structures Organizers: C. Papadimitriou, G. Lombaert, G. De Roeck & E. Reynders
FrM-2 Industrial risk reduction systemOrganizer: H. Wenzel 
FrM-3 Sustainability certification of new and of existing buildings Organizers: A. Passer & H. Wallbaum
FrM-4 Prediction models for ageing / deterioration Organizer: M. Petschacher
FrM-5 Performance based evaluation of corrosion in reinforced and pre-stressed concrete structuresOrganizer: U. Schneck
Concurrent Technical Sessions 13.30 - 15.30
FrA-1 Probabilistic lifetime assessment of concrete structures under combined environmental attackOrganizers: R. Caspeele, N.D. Belie, C. Gehlen & S. Keßler
FrA-2 Vibration-based health monitoring, damage identification, and parameter estimation for civil engineering structuresOrganizers: C. Papadimitriou, G. Lombaert, G. De Roeck & E. Reynders
FrA-3 Life-cycle assessment for sustainability evaluation of buildings Organizers: R. Smutny & M. Treberspurg 
FrA-4 Prediction models for ageing / deteriorationOrganizer: M. Petschacher
FrA-5
Optimization of bridge lifetime by use of structural health monitoring / Advanced remote sensing techniques for 
structural damage assessment
Organizers: M. Reiterer, S. Arangio, M. Manunta & M. Marsella
Concurrent Technical Sessions 16.00 - 18.00
FrE-1 Structural retrofitting for maintenance and rehabilitationOrganizer: A. Unterweger
FrE-2 Monitoring and assessment of bridges using novel techniquesOrganizers: A. Strauss & D.M. Frangopol
FrE-3 Life-cycle assessment for sustainability evaluation of buildingsOrganizers: R. Smutny, C. Neururer & M. Treberspurg
FrE-4 Application of special non-destructive testing methods to different kinds of structuresOrganizer: M. Reiterer
FrE-5 Analysis of rehabilitation needs and maintenance strategiesOrganizers: M. Hastak & Y. Yoon
Friday, 5 October 2012
Symposium Overview
IALCCE 2012 Third International Symposium onLife-Cycle Civil Engineering
21
Concurrent Technical Sessions (FrM 4-6)         10.30 - 12.30 | Friday Morning, 5 October 2012
FrM-4 Radetzkyapp. I FrM-5 Radetzkyapp. III FrM-6 Entrée Room
Mini-Symposium: Prediction models for ageing / deterioration
Special Session: Performance based evaluation of corrosion in 
reinforced and pre-stressed concrete structures
Chairs: M. Petschacher & J.S. Kong Chairs: U. Schneck & S. Keßler
Remaining life prediction of an aged bridge based on field 
inspections 
A. Miyamoto
Non-destructive corrosion surveys: Methods and opportunities
U. Schneck
Analytical prediction model for concrete cover cracking due to 
reinforcement corrosion 
E. Bohner & H.S. Müller
Prediction of remaining service life of cracking concrete box 
girder bridges
Y. Xiang, J. Xu, L. Liu & X. Li
Bridge condition assessment based on long-term strain and 
vehicle monitoring 
L.M. Sun & S.W. Sun
The impact of resistivity on potential mapping 
S. Keßler & C. Gehlen
A stochastic prediction model of degrading process for tunnel 
management systems 
O. Maruyama, A. Sutoh, H. Tanaka & T. Sato
Approaches for non-destructive corrosion surveys of bridge 
decks from the soffit and under traffic: A case study
U. Schneck
Modelling of the saturation behaviour of hardened cement 
paste during freezing and thawing action 
Z. Djuric, M. Haist, H.S. Müller & E.H. Hardy
Probabilistic assessment for structural performance of port RC 
structure
E. Kato, Y. Kawabata, M. Iwanami & H. Yokota
Bridge maintenance education system based on E-learning 
T. Koyama, K. Ishibashi, K. Nakatsu & H. Furuta
Corrosion-induced cracking evolution and reliability prediction 
of aging RC structures
H.-P. Chen & N. Xiao
Structural, economic and environmental performance of fibre 
reinforced wood profiles vs. solutions made of steel and 
concrete 
C. Manthey, E. Guenther, A. Heiduschke & P. Haller
Durability of cooling tower constructions and methods of their 
repair and reinforcement
M. Kaminski & M. Maszczak
Optimal next inspection time for bridges based on corrosion 
deterioration 
D. De León, C. González-Pérez, V. Bisadi, P. Gardoni, M. Head 
& S. Hurlebaus
Probabilistic aspects of Offshore Wind Turbines: Influences of 
in situ assembly of grouted joints
L. Lohaus & M. Werner
Sym
posium
 O
verview
IALCCE 2012 Third International Symposium onLife-Cycle Civil Engineering
23
Concurrent Technical Sessions (FrA 4-6)         13.30 - 15.30 | Friday Afternoon, 5 October 2012
FrA-4 Radetzkyapp. I FrA-5 Radetzkyapp. III FrA-6 Entrée Room
Mini-Symposium: Prediction models for ageing / deterioration
General Session: Optimization of bridge lifetime by use of 
structural health monitoring / Advanced remote sensing 
techniques for structural damage assessment
Chairs: M. Petschacher & R. Pukl Chairs: M. Reiterer & S. Arangio
Seismic intensity parameers as damage potential descriptors 
for life-cycle analysis of buildings
A. Elenas, A. Liolios, L. Vasiliadis, M. Favvata & A. Liolios
Extension of bridge lifetime by use of structural health 
monitoring
M. Reiterer & A. Kammersberger
Selective maintenance planning based on a Markovian 
approach
N. Basso, E. Garavaglia & L. Sgambi
Determination of mechanical and temperature induced deflec-
tion based on monitoring data for assessing the load factor
A. Krawtschuk, T. Zimmermann & K. Haider
Reliability of deterioration prediction with Markov model for 
mooring facilities
H. Yokota, K. Furuya, K. Hashimoto & S. Hanada
The influence of bridge maintenance on their durability and 
bearing capacity
G. Markovski, T. Arangjelovski, O. Kolevski & D. Nakov
Gamma processes for the degredation analysis of engineering 
structures
A. Strauss, H. Abebe Demissie & K. Bergmeister
Dynamic-based performance updating of high-speed concrete 
railway bridge
S. Yang, L. Dieleman & A.D. Orcesi
Numerical analysis of degradation processes in reinforced 
concrete during life-cycle
F. Cramer, U. Kowalsky & D. Dinkler
The use of advanced remote sensing techniques for monitoring
of slopes affected by slow movements
M.E. D’Effremo & E. Fontanella
A consideration on the deterioration of tunnel lining based on 
actual inspection data
A. Sutoh, O. Maruyama, T. Sato & H. Nishi
Assessment of structural damage due to ground settlements by
using the DInSAR technique
S. Arangio, M. Di Mauro, M. Marsella, A. Sonnessa & 
M. Manunta
Time dependent reliability for existing structure based on the 
moment method
W.-L. Fan, S. Zhang, Z.-L. Li & P. Deng
Application of satellite radar interferometry for structural 
damage assessment and monitoring
C. Giannico, A. Ferretti, L. Jurina & M. Ricci
Probabilistic working life assessment of power-producing com-
ponents
J. Markova, M. Holický & K. Jung
The SBAS-DInSAR technique: A tool for deformation 
monitoring in the urban damage assessment
M. Bonano, F. Calò, M. Manunta & M. Marsella
Sym
posium
 O
verview
IALCCE 2012 Third International Symposium onLife-Cycle Civil Engineering
25
Concurrent Technical Sessions (FrE 4-6)         16.00 - 18.00 | Friday Evening, 5 October 2012
FrE-4 Radetzkyapp. I FrE-5 Radetzkyapp. III FrE-6 Entrée Room
Special Session: Application of special non-destructive testing 
methods to different kinds of structures
Special Session: Analysis of rehabilitation needs and 
maintenance strategies
Chairs: M. Reiterer & A. Titi Chairs: M. Hastak & Y. Yoon
Damage process monitoring on the hot spot of a real steel 
component by means of ultrasonic guided waves
M. Vospernig, M. Reiterer & R. Heuer
Multiyear infrastructure rehabilitation strategy within the con-
text of MR&R 
Y. Yoon & M. Hastak
Modern acoustic NDT methods for the off- and online 
detection of damages in composite aeronautic structures
M. Scheerer, A. Peldszus, M. Stadtschnitzer & R. Wagner
Strategies and methods to increase the life-cycle of RC build-
ings in seismic prone areas
S.E. Dritsos, E.C. Apostolidi & N.P. Karela
Concrete fatigue monitoring on large scale structures using 
acoustic emission and an ultrasonic actuation and sensing 
system
R. Wagner, M. Reiterer, A. Strauss & S. Urban
The economic impact of photocatalytic concrete in an urban
industrial setting
C.J. Churchill & D.K. Panesar
Development of a virtual reality-based support system for 
bridge inspectors
S. Sawamura & A. Miyamoto
Life-cycle considerations in bridge deck rehabilitation strategy
B. Czarnecki, W. Johnston & G. Wilkins
Low-cost sensor for integrated durability monitoring and 
life-cycle assessment of reinforced concrete structures
A. Holst & H. Budelmann
Life-cycle cost and life-cycle carbon dioxide analyses of the 
new/renewable energy systems and the energy-saving meas-
ures in the elementary school facilities in South Korea
T. Hong, H. Kim, Ch. Koo & T. Kwak
Experimental modeling of fatigue processes to detect the real 
degree of deterioration
S. Urban, A. Strauss, M. Reiterer & R. Wagner
Fibrecement recycling as raw material for Portland clinker pro-
duction
J. Schoon, L. Van der Heyden, I. Van Driessche & N. De Belie
Fatigue safety examination of a 150-year old riveted railway 
bridge
E. Brühwiler
Optimal allocation of resources in MR&R planning for hetero-
geneous bridge networks
Z. Essahli & S. Madanat
Maintenance costs calculation over the life-cycle: A method for
the usage of elementary influence factors on the technical
durability of technical components and constructed assets
G. Hardkop
Life-cycle assessment of historical structures towards sustain-
able architectural heritage in Kosovo
V. Nushi & S. Nixha
Sym
posium
 O
verview
IA
LC
C
E 
20
12
Th
ird
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l S
ym
po
si
um
 o
n
Li
fe
-C
yc
le
 C
iv
il 
En
g
in
ee
ri
ng
27
Keynote Lectures 08.00 - 10.00 | Chairs: A. Chen & F. Biondini
Life-cycle performance goals for civil infrastructure: intergenerational risk-informed decisions
B.R. Ellingwood
Lessons from the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake: Emphasis on life-cycle structural performance
M. Akiyama
Computational methods for time-variant structural reliability analysis
C. Bucher
Durability related life-cycle assessment of concrete structures: Mechanisms, models, implementation
H. Budelmann
Concurrent Technical Sessions 10.30 - 12.30
SaM-1 Life-cycle cost analysis and risk analysis for buildingsOrganizers: T. Lützkendorf,  S. Geissler & H. Kreiner
SaM-2
Monitoring and assessment of bridges using novel techniques / Optimization of bridge life-time by use of structural
health monitoring
Organizers: A. Strauss, D.M. Frangopol & M. Reiterer
SaM-3
Towards sustainable dams and embankments / Life-cycle engineering in the field of cableways and 
cable structures
Organizers: M. Wieland, W. Wu, D. Bobacz & M. Posch
SaM-4 Life-cycle engineering tools for risk-based decision under uncertaintyOrganizers: C.F. Cremona, A.D. Orcesi & H. Gervásio
SaM-5
Inverse reliability analysis techniques for the lifetime assessment of bridges / Integral bridges – Design and 
construction
Organizers: K. Bergmeister, R. Geier, A. Strauss, D. Novák, R. Pukl & R. Wendner
Concurrent Technical Sessions 13.30 - 15.30
SaA-1 Life-cycle cost analysis and risk analysis for buildingsOrganizers: T. Lützkendorf, S. Geissler & H. Kreiner
SaA-2 Tunnel - Infrastructure SystemsOrganizers: A . Rieder, D. Alfreider & K. Bergmeister
SaA-3 Fatigue of concrete – experiments, models, applicationsOrganizers: S. Seitl, Z. Keršner, R. Pukl & D. Pryl
SaA-4 Structural health monitoring of civil infrastructures in a life-cycle analysisOrganizers: C.F. Cremona, A.D. Orcesi & A. Courtois
SaA-5
Inverse analysis: From material parameters identification to reliability assessment / Simulation software tools for 
virtual reliability and life-cycle testing of concrete structures
Organizers: D. Lehký, D. Novák, A. Strauss & R. Pukl
Saturday, 6 October 2012
Symposium Overview
IALCCE 2012 Third International Symposium onLife-Cycle Civil Engineering
29
Concurrent Technical Sessions (SaM 4-6)         10.30 - 12.30 | Saturday Morning, 6 October 2012
SaM-4 Radetzkyapp. I SaM-5 Radetzkyapp. III SaM-6 Entrée Room
Special Session: Life-cycle engineering tools for risk-based 
decision under uncertainty
General Session: Inverse Reliability Analysis techniques for the 
lifetime assessment of bridges / Integral bridges – design and 
construction
Chairs: A.D. Orcesi & H. Gervásio Chairs: R. Geier & R. Pukl
A probabilistic approach for life-cycle environmental analysis of 
motorway bridges
H. Gervásio & L. Simões da Silva
Reliability index for wind turbines subjected to wind and 
seismic actions 
L.E. Pérez Rocha, A. López López, D. Maldonado Jiménez,
L.E. Manjarrez Garduño & D. de León Escobedo 
A comparative life-cycle cost analysis of steel-concrete com-
posite bridges
N.B. Ta, A.D. Orcesi & C.F. Cremona
Coupled damage in assessing the lifetime of bridge and 
viaducts 
A. Pipinato, C. Pellegrino & C. Modena
A stochastic aging model for life-cycle assessment
M. Petschacher
An optimum design approach for the wind and seismic design 
of wind turbine supports in Mexico
A. López López, L.E. Pérez Rocha & D. Maldonado Jiménez
Relative performance concepts: A new approach in life-cycle 
management of concrete structures
L. Lohaus & J. Gerlach
Integral railway bridges for high speed trains – from conceptual 
design to construction by the example of the Gaensebachtal 
Bridge 
A. Goldack & M. Schlaich 
DIOGEN: Environmental impact database for life-cycle assess-
ment of civil engineering structures
Y. Tardivel & C. Tessier
RC precast bridges with joint-less deck: An Italian experience
G. Tecchio, K. Islami & C. Modena
Life-cycle design of concrete bridges 
T. Kovács & L.E. Laczák
Efficient design and construction of the APM major bridge 
project in Saudi Arabia
E. Ayoub, C. Malek & G. Helmy
Model for negotiation of refinancing gain from public-private 
partnership
L. Zhu & D.K.H. Chua
Simulation of random behavior of engineering structures: From 
parameters identification to reliability assessment 
D. Novák & R. Pukl 
Extension of sample size in Latin Hypercube Sampling – 
methodology and software
M. Vorechovský
Sym
posium
 O
verview
IALCCE 2012 Third International Symposium onLife-Cycle Civil Engineering
31
Concurrent Technical Sessions (SaA 4-6)         13.30 - 15.30 | Saturday Afternoon, 6 October 2012
SaA-4 Radetzkyapp. I SaA-5 Radetzkyapp. III SaA-6 Entrée Room
Special Session: Structural health monitoring of civil 
infrastructures in a life-cycle analysis
General Session: Inverse analysis: From material parameters 
identification to reliability assessment / Simulation software 
tools for virtual reliability and life-cycle testing of concrete 
structures
Chairs: A.D. Orcesi & A. Courtois Chairs: D. Lehký & D. Novák
Automated geomatic system for monitoring historical buildings 
during tunneling in Roma, Italy 
M. Crespi, F. Giannone, M. Marsella & A. Sonnessa
Early warning system of roofs overloaded by snow based on 
measurements and inverse analysis 
D. Lehký
In-service inspection of reinforced concrete cooling towers –
EDF’s feedback
A. Courtois, Y. Genest, F. Afonso, E. Diday & A.D. Orcesi
Artificial neural networks in calibration of nonlinear models 
T. Mareš, E. Janouchová & A. Kucerová
Force monitoring with contact free elasto-magnetic sensors on 
single strands for multi strand anchorages
A. Märzluft & W. Brand
Uncertainty in multivariate modelling: Main concepts and an 
application on fracture mechanics
A.E. Tamparopoulos, P. Spyridis & K. Bergmeister
A vibration-based framework for structural health monitoring 
of railway bridges
W. Guo, A.D. Orcesi, C.F. Cremona, J.P. Santos, S. Yang & 
L. Dieleman
Model-free identification of uncertain time-dependent material 
behaviour for long term structural analysis
S. Freitag, W. Graf & M. Kaliske
High precision structural health monitoring system using wire-
less sensor networks
A. Araujo, F. Tirado, J. García & J. Blesa
Probabilistic assessment of working life for bridges
J. Markova
Management system for infrastructures at waterways 
J. Bödefeld & K. Kloé
An advanced probabilistic updating algorithm for life-cycle 
analysis of civil structures
J.C. Matos, I.B. Valente, P.J.S. Cruz & L.C. Neves
Performance-based retrofit of a prestressed concrete road 
bridge in seismic area
A.M. Avossa, R. Di Camillo & P. Malangone
Deterministic versus probabilistic reliability analysis of existing 
bridge structures
C. Unger & M. Empelmann
Sym
posium
 O
verview
IA
LC
C
E 
20
12
Th
ird
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l S
ym
po
si
um
 o
n
Li
fe
-C
yc
le
 C
iv
il 
En
g
in
ee
ri
ng
33
Exhibition
Ex
hi
b
it
io
n 
(L
ev
el
 1
)
7
A
nt
ec
ha
m
b
er
1
Er
ns
t &
 S
oh
n
A
 W
ile
y 
C
om
pa
ny
, G
er
m
an
y
2
T&
F 
- T
ay
lo
r &
 F
ra
nc
is
 G
ro
up
8
K
ni
g
ht
’s
 H
al
l
1
IA
LC
C
E 
- I
nt
er
na
tio
na
l 
A
ss
oc
ia
tio
n 
fo
r L
ife
-C
yc
le
 C
iv
il 
En
gi
ne
er
in
g
2
PC
 - 
Pe
ts
ch
ac
he
r C
on
su
lti
ng
3
C
C
 - 
C
er
ve
nk
a 
C
on
su
lti
ng
4
H
BM
 - 
H
ot
tin
ge
r B
al
dw
in
 
M
es
st
ec
hn
ik
er
 G
m
bH
5
A
IT
 - 
A
us
tr
ia
n 
In
st
itu
te
 o
f 
Te
ch
no
lo
gy
6
RE
D
 B
ER
N
A
RD
 - 
Be
rn
ar
d 
C
iv
il 
En
gi
ne
er
in
g
7
SZ
 - 
Sc
hi
m
et
ta
 Z
iv
ilt
ec
hn
ik
er
 
G
m
bH
8
IN
FA
P 
- I
nd
us
tr
ia
l F
ib
re
 
A
pp
lic
at
io
ns
9
VC
E 
- V
ie
nn
a 
C
on
su
lti
ng
 
En
gi
ne
er
in
g
IA
LC
C
E 
20
12
Th
ird
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l S
ym
po
si
um
 o
n
Li
fe
-C
yc
le
 C
iv
il 
En
g
in
ee
ri
ng
35
Social Program
TIME 4 OCT. (TH) 6 OCT. (SA)3 OCT. (WE) 5 OCT. (FR) 7 OCT. (SU)
07.00
09.00
08.00
07.30
08.30
09.30
10.00
17.00
13.30
10.30
17.30
14.00
11.00
18.00
18.15
14.30
11.30
18.30
20.30
15.00
12.00
19.00
21.00
15.30
12.30
19.30
21.30
22.30
16.00
13.00
20.00
22.00
23.00
16.30
07.30
09.30
08.30
08.00
09.00
10.00
10.30
17.30
14.00
11.00
18.00
14.30
11.30
18.15
18.30
15.00
12.00
19.00
21.00
15.30
12.30
19.30
21.30
16.00
13.00
20.00
22.00
23.00
16.30
13.30
20.30
22.30
23.30
17.00
Registration
Registration Registration Registration
H
al
f-D
ay
 G
ui
de
d 
W
al
k
A
rc
hi
te
ct
ur
e 
of
 V
ie
nn
a
H
al
f-D
ay
 P
an
or
am
ic
 
C
oa
ch
 T
rip
Sc
hö
nb
ru
nn
 P
al
ac
e
H
al
f-D
ay
 
G
ui
de
d 
W
al
k 
H
is
to
ric
al
 V
ie
nn
a
Fidelio
Vienna State
Opera House
Gala 
Evening
Festival Hall,
Rathaus
(Town Hall)
Farewell
Heuriger 
Evening,
Neustift
Vienna Hofburg
Orchestra
Redouten Hall,
Hofburg Palace
Vienna
Boys’
Choir
Spanish
Riding
School
Fu
ll 
D
ay
 T
rip
 to
 W
ac
ha
u 
Re
gi
on
Fu
ll 
D
ay
 T
rip
 to
 S
al
zb
ur
g
Re
gi
st
ra
tio
n
Re
gi
st
ra
tio
n
Re
gi
st
ra
tio
n
Ex
hi
bi
tio
n
Ex
hi
bi
tio
n
Ex
hi
bi
tio
n
Welcome 
Reception
Hall of 
Ceremonies,
Hofburg Palace
Lunch
Lunch Lunch
IA
LC
C
E 
20
12
Th
ird
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l S
ym
po
si
um
 o
n
Li
fe
-C
yc
le
 C
iv
il 
En
g
in
ee
ri
ng
37
FIDELIO
Ludwig v. Beethoven, Vienna State Opera House
Thursday, 4 October 2012 | 19.00
The Vienna Opera (‘Wiener Staatsoper’) is one 
of the world´s most famous opera houses. It was 
opened in 1869 with the world premiere of Mozart´s 
Don Giovanni. The members of the world famous 
Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra are recruited from 
the ranks of the Vienna State Opera Orchestra for 
the performance of Beethoven’s ‘Fidelio’.
VIENNA HOFBURG ORCHESTRA
Hofburg, Redouten Hall, Josefplatz
Thursday, 4 October 2012 | 20.30
The Vienna Hofburg Orchestra boasts 36 profes-
sional orchestra musicians and 6 international vocal 
soloists. In one of Vienna’s most beautiful concert 
halls, the Vienna Hofburg Orchestra will present the 
most popular waltz and operetta pieces by Johann 
Strauss, Emmerich Kalman and Franz Lehar, as well 
as opera aries and duets by Wolfgang Amadeus 
Mozart.
FAREWELL HEURIGER EVENING
Fuhrgassl Huber, Neustift
Saturday, 6 October 2012 | 18.15 - 21.30
In Austria, the current year’s wine is served in the 
legendary wine taverns (Heuriger), and the Fuhr-
gassl Huber ranks among the most famous in Vi-
enna. Based in the Neustift district amongst a maze 
of rustic vineyards, visitors can enjoy the unique 
Wiener Gemütlichkeit (relaxed, companionable 
coziness) over a glass of local wine. The Heuriger is 
also a popular dining venue amongst locals, where 
guests can enjoy a fine selection of sauerkraut, 
dumplings and salads and various meats such as 
barbecued chicken, knuckle of smoked meat, lean 
loin, rost cumin and neck of pork.   
Transport to the Heuriger will be by bus. The meet-
ing point for the bus transfer will take place at 18.15 
at the Hofburg Heldenplatz in the 1st district, next 
to the main entrance of the Österreichische Natio-
nalbibliothek. The bus trip back to Heldenplatz will 
leave from the Furgassl Huber at 21.15, with an ex-
pected arrival time at Heldenplatz of 21.30.
[Österreich Werbung / Viennaslide]
[Musikverein]
[Fuhrgasslhuber]
[Fuhrgasslhuber]
Social Program
IA
LC
C
E 
20
12
Th
ird
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l S
ym
po
si
um
 o
n
Li
fe
-C
yc
le
 C
iv
il 
En
g
in
ee
ri
ng
39
Post-Symposium
WIENER SÄNGERKNABEN
Hofburgkapelle
Sunday, 7 October 2012 | 09.00
The Wiener Sängerknaben (‘Vienna Boys’ Choir’) 
may be the world´s most famous boys´ choir. The 
youngsters are recruited mainly from Austria, but 
also from many other countries globally. Over the 
centuries, the choir has worked with many famous 
composers such as Mozart, Salieri and Bruckner. 
Interest in this event should be announced to the 
IALCCE 2012 secretary by 20 September.
SPANISH RIDING SCHOOL
Hofburg, Michaelerplatz 1
Sunday, 7 October 2012 | 11.00
Experience the perfection of the various ‘High 
School’ lessons including the ‘pas de deux’ and the 
‘great school quadrille’ which requires 8 stallions. 
The airs above ground are performed in the classi-
cal style of the levade, the courbette and the cap-
riole, and are one of the highlights of the shows.
FULL DAY COACH TRIP
Wachau Region
Sunday, 7 October 2012 | ca. 08.00 - 18.00
Through the enchanting Wachau landscape lies 
Melk Abbey, the most prominent baroque abbey in 
Austria. Its unique library and the Marble Hall capti-
vate all its visitors. We then board a river boat which 
sails us past medieval castles, historical villages and 
vineyards. We’ll take a leisurely stroll through the 
quaint town of Dürnstein, the ‘Pearl of the Wachau’, 
before our return trip to Vienna.
FULL DAY COACH TRIP
Salzburg
Sunday, 7 October 2012 | ca. 08.00 - 21.00
Two hours west takes us to the city of Salzburg. We 
get off at Mirabel Palace and  stroll on into the world 
famous Getreidegasse, where we pass Mozart´s 
house of birth. Further highlights are Salzburg´s 
Festival Halls, the Monastery of St. Peter (1696), the 
oldest restaurant in Central Europe (803 AD), the 
Salzburg Cathedral and the Imperial Residence.
[Österreich Werbung / Lammerhuber]
[Österreich Werbung / Graf]
[Österreich Werbung / Trumler]
[Österreich Werbung / Diejun]
IA
LC
C
E 
20
12
Th
ird
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l S
ym
po
si
um
 o
n
Li
fe
-C
yc
le
 C
iv
il 
En
g
in
ee
ri
ng
41
Notes
IA
LC
C
E 
20
12
Th
ird
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l S
ym
po
si
um
 o
n
Li
fe
-C
yc
le
 C
iv
il 
En
g
in
ee
ri
ng
43
de León Escobedo, D. ....SaM-5
De León, D. .................... FrM-4
De Roeck, G. .................. FrM-1
De Roeck, G. ...................FrA-2
De Roeck, G. ................... FrE-2
Deix, S. ........................... ThA-5
Deix, S. ........................... ThA-5
Deix, S. ........................... ThA-5
Del Grosso, A. ................ FrM-2
Dencsak, T. ..................... FrM-3
Dencsak, T. ......................FrA-3
Deng, P. ...........................FrA-4
Deng, P. .......................... SaA-3
Dengg, F. .............................FrP
Di Camillo, R. .................. SaA-5
Di Mauro, M. ...................FrA-5
Diday, E. ......................... SaA-4
Dieleman, L. ....................FrA-5
Dieleman, L. ................... SaA-4
Ding,W. ........................... ThA-4
Diniz, S.M.C. ...................SaM-3
Dinkler, D. ....................... ThE-3
Dinkler, D. ........................FrA-4
Djalili, M. .........................FrA-3
Djuric, Z. ......................... FrM-4
Dmochowski, G. .............. FrE-1
Dominici, D. .................... ThE-1
Döring, B. ........................ FrE-3
Dreßen, T. ....................... ThA-2
Dritsos, S.E. ..................... FrE-5
Dubina, D. ....................... FrE-3
Dubina, D. ....................... FrE-3
Dunkelberg, D. ............... ThE-2
Dunne, H. ...................... ThM-4
Eberl, S. .......................... FrM-3
Eberl, S. .......................... FrM-3
Eibinger, G. ..................... ThA-1
Elaiopoulos, M. ............... ThE-1
El Debs, M.K. .......................FrP
Elenas, A. .........................FrA-4
Eliáš, J. ............................ SaA-3
Empelmann, M. .............. ThE-5
Empelmann, M. .............. SaA-5
Engelhardt, S. ................. ThA-1
Essahli, Z. ......................... FrE-5
Essig, N. ......................... FrM-3
Essig, N. ......................... FrM-3
Estrafallaces, G. .............. SaA-2
Faggiano, B. .................... FrE-1
Fan,W.-L. ..........................FrA-4
Fan, X.P. ........................... FrE-2
Fath, K. ........................... SaA-1
Favvata, M. ......................FrA-4
Feiersinger, A. ................. SaA-2
Feix, J............................. ThM-1
Feldmann, M. .................. FrE-3
Feraille, A. ....................... FrE-3
Fernane, M. .........................FrP
Ferraioli, M. .................... SaA-2
Ferreira, R.M. .................. ThE-5
Ferretti, A. .......................FrA-5
Fiala, C. ........................... ThA-4
Fiorino, L. ......................... FrE-1
Fischer, O. ....................... ThA-5
Floegl, H. ........................SaM-1
Flora, M. ......................... SaA-2
Fontanella, E. ...................FrA-5
Franck, S.A. .................... ThM-4
Frangopol, D.M. ............. ThA-2
Frangopol, D.M. ............. ThA-4
Frangopol, D.M. ............. ThA-4
Frangopol, D.M. ............. SaA-2
Frankenstein, B. .............. FrM-2
Freitag, S. ....................... SaA-5
Freudenstein, S. .............. ThA-5
Frey, B.I........................... ThM-1
Fromm, A. ....................... ThA-5
Fruehwirth, A. .................SaM-3
Fröch, G. ......................... SaA-2
Fuciman, O. .................... ThA-3
Fuggini, C. .......................FrA-2
Furtmüller, T. ................... ThE-1
Furtmüller, T. ................... ThE-1
Furtner, P. ........................ ThE-1
Furtner, P. ........................ FrM-2
Furtner, P. ........................ FrM-2
Furuta, H. ........................ FrM-4
Furuta, H. ........................SaM-2
Furuya, K. ........................FrA-4
Fust, Ch.......................... ThM-1
Galeota, D. ..................... ThE-1
Gallagher, P.M..................FrA-2
Gallagher, P.M.................SaM-3
Gallwoszus, J. ................. ThA-2
Gao, X.L. ......................... ThE-5
Garavaglia, E. ..................FrA-4
García, J. ......................... SaA-4
Gardoni, P. ...................... FrM-4
Gaspar, P.L. ..................... ThA-3
Gattu, M. ........................ SaA-3
Gavriloska, A.T. ............... ThA-3
Gehlen, C....................... ThM-2
Gehlen, C....................... ThM-5
Gehlen, C........................ FrM-5
Gehlen, C.........................FrA-1
Genest,Y. ........................ SaA-4
Gentile, C. ...................... FrM-1
Georgescu, M. ................ ThE-3
Gerlach, J. ......................SaM-4
Gervásio, H. ....................SaM-4
Giannico, C. .....................FrA-5
Giannone, F. ................... SaA-4
Girgle, F. ........................ ThM-5
Girsch, G. ........................ ThA-1
Gissinger, H. .................. ThM-3
Gkoumas, K. ................... SaA-2
Gkoumas, K. ................... SaA-2
Goldack, A. .....................SaM-5
Golinval, J.-C. ................. FrM-1
Gomes, F. ........................ FrE-3
González-Pérez, C. ......... FrM-4
Graf,W. ........................... SaA-5
Gragger, K. ..................... ThA-5
Gragger, K. ..................... FrM-2
Grecea, D. ...................... ThE-3
Gregori, A. ...................... ThE-1
Gregorová, M. ................ ThE-5
Grim, M. .........................SaM-1
Grohmann, M. .................FrA-3
Grohmann, M. ................ SaA-1
Guenther, E. .................... FrM-4
Guo,W. ........................... SaA-4
Habert, G. ........................ FrE-3
Hafner, A. ........................ ThE-3
Hafner, A. ......................... FrE-3
Haider, K. .........................FrA-5
Haist, M. ......................... FrM-4
Hajek, P. .......................... ThA-4
Halder, T. ........................SaM-1
Haller, P. .......................... FrM-4
Haller, P. ...........................FrA-3
Hammoum, H. .....................FrP
Hanada, S. .......................FrA-4
Hansen, M. ...................... FrE-2
Hardkop, G. ..................... FrE-4
Hardy, E.H. ...................... FrM-4
Hardziewski, R. ............... FrM-3
Harreither, C. .................. ThA-3
Harvey, B. ...................... ThM-4
Harvey, B. ........................ FrE-2
Harvey, H. ........................ FrE-2
Hashimoto, K. ..................FrA-4
Hasler, E. .........................SaM-1
Hastak, M. ........................ FrE-5
Hauser, A. ....................... ThE-4
Havlásek, P. ..................... ThE-5
Hayakawa, K. ................. ThM-5
Head, M. ......................... FrM-4
Hegger, J. ....................... ThA-2
Hegger, J. .......................SaM-2
Heiduschke, A. ............... FrM-4
Heinze, M. ...................... ThE-2
Author Index
IA
LC
C
E 
20
12
Th
ird
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l S
ym
po
si
um
 o
n
Li
fe
-C
yc
le
 C
iv
il 
En
g
in
ee
ri
ng
45
Liskounig, R. ................... ThA-5
Listerud, Ch.A. ............... ThM-3
Listerud, Ch.A. ................SaM-1
Litzka, J. .......................... ThA-5
Liu, K. ............................... FrE-2
Liu, L. .............................. FrM-5
Liu, X. .............................. ThA-4
Liu, X.L. ........................... ThE-3
Liu,Y. ............................... ThA-4
Liu,Y. ................................FrA-2
Lohaus, L. ....................... FrM-5
Lohaus, L. .......................SaM-4
Lombaert, G. ...................FrA-2
Lombaert, G. ................... FrE-2
López López, A. ..............SaM-5
López López, A. ..............SaM-5
Lounnas, S. ......................... FrP
Lourens, E.-M. ................. FrE-2
Lowke, D. ....................... ThM-2
Lu, D.G. ........................... FrE-2
Ludwig, H.-M. ................. ThE-4
Lukic, I. ........................... ThE-4
Lupíšek, A. ...................... FrM-3
Lützkendorf, T. ................. FrE-3
Lützkendorf, T. ................ SaA-1
Lützkendorf, T. ................ SaA-1
Ma,Y. ............................... ThA-4
Maas, S. .......................... FrM-1
Maas, S. .......................... FrM-1
Máca, P. ......................... ThM-5
Madanat, S. ..................... FrE-5
Maes, M. ..........................FrA-1
Maes, M. ..........................FrA-1
Mahowald, J. .................. FrM-1
Mahowald, J. .................. FrM-1
Malangone, P. ................. SaA-5
Maldonado Jiménez, D. .SaM-5
Maldonado Jiménez, D. .SaM-5
Malek, C. ........................SaM-5
Malesev, M. .................... ThE-4
Manara, J. ....................... ThE-3
Mancik, S. ........................FrA-3
Manfredi, G. .................. ThM-3
Manjarrez Garduño, L.E. .SaM-5
Manthey, C. .................... FrM-4
Manunta, M. ................... FrA-5
Manunta, M. ................... FrA-5
Mappouridou, M. ............... FrP
Marcellus, K.A. .................FrA-2
Mareš, T. ......................... SaA-5
Marini, D. ........................ SaA-2
Mark, P............................ ThM-1
Mark, P............................ ThM-1
Mark, P............................. ThE-5
Markova, J. ......................FrA-4
Markova, J. ..................... SaA-5
Markovski, G. .................. ThE-5
Markovski, G. ...................FrA-5
Marsella, M. .................... FrA-5
Marsella, M. .....................FrA-5
Marsella, M. .................... SaA-4
Maruyama, O. ................. FrM-4
Maruyama, O. ..................FrA-4
Marx, S. .......................... ThM-4
Marx, S. ............................ FrE-2
Märzluft, A. ..................... SaA-4
Mastna, Z. ....................... ThA-3
Maszczak, M. .................. FrM-5
Mateckova, P. ................. ThM-4
Matos, J.C. ..................... SaA-5
Maung, T.S. ......................FrA-2
Maydl, P. ......................... SaA-1
Mayer, T.F. ........................ FrE-2
Meistad, T. ..................... ThM-3
Mende, S. ....................... SaA-1
Mendel, G. ..................... SaA-1
Mendlig, K. ..........................FrP
Messari-Becker, L. ............FrA-3
Messari-Becker, L. ........... SaA-1
Milachowski, C. ................FrA-1
Milovanovic, V. ................ ThE-4
Mitsch, T.......................... SaA-2
Miyamoto, A. .................. FrM-4
Miyamoto, A..................... FrE-4
Modena, C. .....................SaM-2
Modena, C. .....................SaM-5
Modena, C. .....................SaM-5
Mohammed, A.W. .......... ThA-1
Moon, F. ......................... FrM-2
Moore, M. ....................... ThA-2
Morassi, A. ...................... FrM-1
Mouzakis, H. .................... FrE-1
Müller, A. .............................FrP
Müller, H.S. ..................... FrM-4
Müller, H.S. ..................... FrM-4
Müller, H.S. ......................FrA-1
Murarasu, V. .................... ThE-2
Murphy, J. ...................... ThM-4
Nakano,Y. ........................ FrE-1
Nakatsu, K. ..................... FrM-4
Nakatsu, K. .....................SaM-2
Nakov, D. .........................FrA-5
Neumann,W. ................... FrM-2
Neuner, H. ....................... FrE-2
Neuß, H.......................... ThM-1
Neves, L.C. ..................... SaA-5
Nguyen, V.H. .................. FrM-1
Niederegger, C. .............. ThE-1
Nikravan, M. ........................FrP
Nishi, H. ...........................FrA-4
Nishi, H. .......................... SaA-2
Nixha, S. .......................... FrE-5
Nomura,Y. .......................SaM-2
Novoszel, J. ....................SaM-3
Novotny, M. .................... ThA-3
Novák, D. ........................ ThA-4
Novák, D. ........................SaM-5
Nushi, V. ........................... FrE-5
Nusser, B. ........................ ThA-3
O’Connor, A.J. ................ ThA-5
O’Connor, A.J. ................ ThA-5
Österreicher, M. ...................FrP
Onysyk, H. ......................SaM-2
Orcesi, A.D. .....................FrA-5
Orcesi, A.D. ....................SaM-4
Orcesi, A.D. .................... SaA-4
Orcesi, A.D. .................... SaA-4
Ott, S. ............................. ThA-3
Oumeraci, H. ................. ThM-4
Pakrashi, V. ...................... ThA-5
Paleari, M. .......................SaM-1
Palic, S.Š. ........................ ThA-5
Palieraki, V. ...................... FrE-1
Panesar, D.K. ................... FrE-5
Panetsos, P. .....................SaM-2
Papadimitriou, C. .............FrA-2
Papadimitriou, C. .............FrA-2
Papadimitriou, C. ............. FrE-2
Papadioti, D.-C. ...............FrA-2
Park, T.K. ......................... ThA-3
Pascu, T. .......................... SaA-3
Passer, A. ........................ FrM-3
Passer, A. ........................SaM-1
Passer, A. ........................SaM-3
Peldszus, A. ..................... FrE-4
Pellegrino, C. ..................SaM-5
Peng, J. ........................... ThA-4
Pérez Rocha, L.E. ............SaM-5
Pérez Rocha, L.E. ............SaM-5
Pescari, S. ........................FrA-3
Petrini, F. ......................... SaA-2
Petrini, F. ......................... SaA-2
Petschacher, M. ..............SaM-4
Peuportier, B. ................. ThM-3
Peyramale, V. .................. FrM-3
Pietsch, M. ...................... ThE-1
Pietsch, M. ...................... ThE-1
Pipinato, A. .....................SaM-5
Pircher, M. ........................ FrE-1
Poli, T. .............................SaM-3
Pongratz, M. ...................SaM-1
Pricopie, A.Gh. ................ FrE-1
Author Index
IA
LC
C
E 
20
12
Th
ird
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l S
ym
po
si
um
 o
n
Li
fe
-C
yc
le
 C
iv
il 
En
g
in
ee
ri
ng
47
Tirado, F. ......................... SaA-4
Titi, A. ..............................FrA-1
Treberspurg, M. ...............FrA-3
Träger, W. ........................SaM-3
Tsimas, S. ............................ FrP
Tsimas, S. ............................ FrP
Turk, M.R. ........................ ThA-5
Tzaveas, T....................... ThM-1
Ummenhofer, T. .............. SaA-2
Unger, C. ........................ SaA-5
Ungureanu, V. .................. FrE-3
Ungureanu, V. .................. FrE-3
Unterweger, A. ............... ThM-2
Unterweger, A. ................. FrE-1
Urban, S. .......................... FrE-4
Urban, S. .......................... FrE-4
Valen, M.S. ..................... ThM-3
Valente, I.B. .................... SaA-5
Van Bogaert, P. ............... ThE-2
Van den Heede, P. ...........FrA-1
Van den Heede, P. ...........FrA-1
Van der Heyden, L. .......... FrE-5
Van Driessche, I. .............. FrE-5
Vardaka, G. ......................... FrP
Vasiliadis, L. .....................FrA-4
Veit-Egerer, R. ................. FrM-2
Veit-Egerer, R. ................. FrM-2
Veit-Egerer, R. ................. FrM-2
Veit-Egerer, R. ................. FrM-2
Vesikari, E. ...................... ThE-5
Vestroni, F. ...................... FrM-1
Vintzileou, E. .................... FrE-1
Vintzileou, E. .................... FrE-1
Vitek, J.L. ....................... ThM-5
Vlaicu, G. ........................ SaA-3
Vorechovský, M. .............SaM-5
Vogel, M. .........................FrA-1
Vogt, P. ........................... ThA-1
Voit, K. ............................SaM-2
von der Haar, C. ............... FrE-2
Vorel, J. ........................... SaA-3
Vospernig, M. .................. FrE-4
Vrablik, L. ........................ ThE-5
Wagner, H.-J. .................. ThE-3
Wagner, J. ........................ FrE-1
Wagner, R. ....................... FrE-4
Wagner, R. ....................... FrE-4
Wagner, R. ....................... FrE-4
Walcher, A. .....................SaM-1
Waldauer, E. ................... SaA-1
Waldmann, D. ................. FrM-1
Waldmann, D. ................. FrM-1
Wall, J. ............................SaM-3
Wallbaum, H. .................. FrM-3
Wallbaum, H. .................. FrM-3
Wallner-Kleindienst, M. ...FrA-3
Wan, X. ............................FrA-1
Wang, G.S....................... FrA-1
Wang, G.S........................... FrP
Wang, H. ......................... ThA-4
Wang, L. ......................... ThA-4
Wang, Z. ......................... SaA-3
Wartha, Ch. .....................SaM-1
Weihnacht, B. ................. FrM-2
Weimann, K......................... FrP
Wendner, R. .................... ThE-5
Wendner, R. .................... SaA-3
Weninger-Vycudil, A. ...... ThA-5
Weninger-Vycudil, A. ...... ThA-5
Wenzel, H. ...................... ThE-1
Wenzel, H. ...................... FrM-2
Wenzel, H. ...................... FrM-2
Wenzel, H. ...................... FrM-2
Werner, M. ...................... FrM-5
Wessels, J. ...................... ThA-5
Widmann, M. .................. FrM-2
Widmann, M. .................. FrM-2
Wieland, G. .................... ThE-3
Wieland, M. ....................SaM-3
Wieland, M. ....................SaM-3
Wilkins, G. ....................... FrE-5
Wilson, H.R. .................... SaA-1
Winter, S. ........................ ThA-3
Winter, S. ........................ ThE-3
Winter, S. ......................... FrE-3
Wittmann, F.H. .................FrA-1
Wu, M.X. ......................... FrM-2
Wu,W. .............................SaM-3
Wursten, G. .................... FrM-1
Xalter, S. ......................... ThA-5
Xiang,Y. ........................... FrM-5
Xiao, N. ........................... FrM-5
Xu, J. ............................... FrM-5
Yan,Y.Y. ........................... ThE-5
Yang, L.Z. ........................ FrM-2
Yang, S. ............................FrA-5
Yang, S. ........................... SaA-4
Yeh, Y. ..............................FrA-3
Yekkalar, M. ......................... FrP
Yin, X.F. ............................FrA-2
Yokota, H. ....................... FrM-5
Yokota, H. ........................FrA-4
Yoon,Y. ............................. FrE-5
Yoshida, K. ......................SaM-2
Yu, Q. .............................. SaA-3
Zabel, V. .......................... FrM-1
Zeman, O. ...................... ThM-4
Zeris, C. ........................... FrE-1
Zervaki, M. .......................... FrP
Zhang, Ch. ...................... SaA-3
Zhang, F.L. .......................FrA-2
Zhang, J. ......................... ThA-4
Zhang, J. ......................... ThA-4
Zhang, J.R. .......................FrA-2
Zhang, P. ..........................FrA-1
Zhang, S. .........................FrA-4
Zhao, T. ............................FrA-1
Zhu, L. ............................. ThA-1
Zhu, L. .............................SaM-4
Zilch, K. ........................... ThE-2
Zimmermann, T. .............. ThE-1
Zimmermann, T. ...............FrA-5
Zinke, T. .......................... SaA-2
Zintel, M. ....................... ThM-5
Zmigrodzki, S. ..................FrA-1
Zuerbes, A. ..................... FrM-1
Zuo, Z. ............................ ThA-4
Zwicky, D. ........................ ThE-2
Author Index
Threshold-based network-level transportation infrastructure management
James C. Chu & Yin-Jay Chen
Department of Civil Engineering, National Central University, Taiwan
ABSTRACT: Transportation infrastructure life-cycle management deals with maintenance decision-making
of facilities such as pavements and bridges. Various methodologies have been adopted to determine the optimal
allocation of limited funds over multiple-periods. In practice, transportation agencies use threshold-based rules
for decision-making because the rules are compatible with their workflows for maintenance and rehabilitation
and easy to understand and explain to the funding authorities. This paper adopts hybrid dynamic models (HDM)
to formulate the threshold-based maintenance decision-making problem. The methodology is tested with a road
network for its capability of generating thresholds intuitive to highway maintenance agencies.
1 INTRODUCTION
1.1 Transportation Infrastructure Life-cycle
Management
Transportation infrastructure life-cycle management
deals with maintenance decision making of trans-
portation facilities such as pavement, bridges, and
railways. Transportation infrastructure systems in de-
veloped countries are mature and many of their com-
ponents are in poor condition due to long-term ser-
vice. Appropriate planning for the maintenance of
transportation facilities to improve their condition is
necessary because the economic and social activi-
ties of a country heavily rely on well-maintained
transportation infrastructure. Moreover, the loss of
life and damage to property caused by the failure of
transportation facilities would be catastrophic. Vari-
ous methodologies such as optimal control have been
used to allocate limited funds over multiple periods
for transportation infrastructure maintenance. Most of
these methodologies generate highly detailed plans
that contain maintenance actions for every facility at
every time period.
Such maintenance plans, while optimal, are not
readily accepted because they cannot be easily un-
derstood by either transportation agencies or fund-
ing authorities. These plans are also not particularly
robust because they often change dramatically when
available funds change slightly (Task Force on Pave-
ments and the AASHTO 2001). Most importantly,
they are incompatible with the threshold-based work-
flows adopted by transportation agencies, i.e., a main-
tenance action takes place when the facility deterio-
ration exceeds a certain threshold. For transportation
agencies, repairing a facility in poor condition is intu-
itive and natural while conducting maintenance activ-
ities according to a pre-determined schedule is not.
One of the problems with this state of the practice
is that the determination of thresholds lacks a system-
atic approach. Thresholds are usually selected without
considering the available budget, supposedly one of
the most important factors in the decision process, and
the results are unlikely to be effective. If the thresh-
olds are not set properly, either the budget will be ex-
hausted long before the end of the planning period, or
the budget will not be used effectively and the facili-
ties will not maintained in the best possible state given
the budget. Determining maintenance thresholds to
use a limited budget effectively for a large system of
facilities is a highly complex problem. Therefore, the
objective of this research is to propose a methodology
for determining the optimal maintenance thresholds
for threshold-based transportation infrastructure life-
cycle management.
Khurshid, Irfan, & Labi (2011) pointed out that
thresholds have been determined mostly through ex-
pert opinion or historical trends. Relatively little an-
alytical study has been conducted on the subject
of optimal thresholds for maintenance actions. Jido,
Otazawa, & Kobayashi (2008) use impulse control
models to determine the optimal threshold for a
single facility. Khurshid, Irfan, & Labi (2011) cal-
culate maintenance thresholds by maximizing the
effectiveness-to-cost ratio for a set of facilities using
nonlinear programming. It appears that no one has yet
proposed a threshold-based life-cycle management
optimization model considering user responses, het-
erogeneous maintenance actions, and multiple time
periods. Therefore, research in this area is still incom-
are NP-hard, meaning they are inefficient to solve for
real-world problems (Migdalas 1995). Therefore, a
meta-heuristic algorithm, tabu search, is adopted and
modified to solve the optimal network-level mainte-
nance problem considered in this research.
This paper is organized as follows. Section 2
describes the formulation and the solution method
of HDMs while Section 3 illustrates the proposed
methodology with an example. Section 4 discusses
the conclusions and directions for future research.
 
Continuous State 
(e.g. Roughness 
and Age), X
Maintenance 
Actions, δ
Discrete State 
(e.g. overlaid or 
not), Y
Mode for 
Continuous State 
Dynamics, i
Maintenance
Thresholds, τ
FSM
MS
SS
EG
Figure 1. Hybrid dynamic model.
2 MODEL FORMULATIONS
HDMs are used to describe threshold-based mainte-
nance in this research. Related studies of discrete-
time HDM include Bemporad & Moran (1999) and
Torrisi & Bemporad (2004). Because transporta-
tion infrastructure facilities are usually inspected and
maintenance decisions are made at fixed intervals
(e.g., seasonally or yearly), consideration of discrete-
time models is reasonable. In addition, the optimiza-
tion of HDMs is much more efficient using discrete-
time models than continuous-time ones. Another im-
portant consideration is that a HDM is straightforward
to formulate and simulate, although cumbersome to
use in optimization (Torrisi & Bemporad 2004). Thus,
the conversion of HDMs into equivalent mathematical
programming models that are suitable for optimiza-
tion is also discussed in Bemporad & Moran (1999)
and Torrisi & Bemporad (2004).
The relationships between threshold-based main-
tenance and HDM have been described above. This
section focuses on the model formulation for HDM
and the solution method for the optimal threshold-
based maintenance problem. Section 3 demonstrates
these later with an example. Because highway sys-
tems are major components in transportation infras-
tructure, related research is well established and rele-
vant databases are more complete. Therefore, high-
way pavement is selected as being representative
of transportation facilities to illustrate the proposed
model formulation and the numerical example in this
paper.
2.1 Upper-level Problem: Optimal
Threshold-based Maintenance
The objective of optimal threshold-based mainte-
nance is to find the maintenance thresholds for a net-
work of highway pavements that optimize a function
of pavement conditions given the constraints of bud-
gets. The objective function and budget constraints of
an optimal threshold-based maintenance problem for
T planning periods usually have the following form:
maxZ = fOBJ({Xj(n, t),
∀t = 2, · · · , T + 1, n = 1, · · · ,N, j ∈ J }) (1)
∑
a∈A
N∑
n=1
Ca(n)δa(n, t) ≤ B(t),∀t = 1, · · · , T (2)
In Eq. (1), fOBJ is a function of conditions for a total
of N pavements. In practice, the measure for pave-
ment conditions could be chosen by the transporta-
tion agencies based on their management preferences.
The objective of the optimization is usually to maxi-
mize the function of pavement conditions. In HDM,
the pavement conditions are represented by continu-
ous states. Continuous state j at time t for pavement
n is expressed as Xj(n, t), where j ∈ J and J is the
set of all the continuous states. Note that because the
initial continuous states at time 1 are given, the con-
tinuous states considered in the objective function in-
clude time periods between 2 and T +1 for a planning
horizon of T periods. In Eq. (2), Ca(n) is the cost for
maintenance action a on pavement n, where a ∈ A
and A is the set for all the available maintenance ac-
tions. The δa(n, t) is a binary variable indicating if
maintenance action a is selected at time t for pave-
ment n, where δa(n, t) = 1 means action a is selected
and 0 otherwise. B(t) is the budget for time period t.
The constraint means that the total maintenance cost
for all actions and pavements in a time period must be
less than or equal to the available budget.
2.1.1 Event Generator
An event generator monitors the continuous states,
generates the corresponding events, and determines
the necessary maintenance action. An event genera-
tor can be represented by the following equations:
δa(n, t) = f
a
EG({Xj(n, t),∀j ∈ J }, τ1, · · · , τR),
∀a ∈ A, n = 1, · · · ,N, t = 1, · · · , T (3)
In Eq. (3), the inputs of the function include the main-
tenance thresholds (τ1, · · · , τR, where R is the total
number of thresholds) and the continuous states. The
event generator for action a is denoted as faEG and
usually contains one or more IF-THEN-ELSE state-
ments that are used to evaluate the continuous states
the AASHTO 2001). Therefore, predicting the traf-
fic flow on each pavement section accurately is crit-
ical to estimating pavement deterioration and deter-
mining maintenance thresholds. To capture the user
response to maintenance decisions, the lower-level
problem is formulated as a traffic assignment prob-
lem considering the effect of pavement deterioration
on road capacity. The problem of traffic assignment
on highway networks has been studied intensively;
see Sheffi (1984) for a review. In this research, the
user-equilibrium formulation by LeBlanc (1975) is
adopted as shown in Eqs. (10)–(14). In the equations,
S is the set of all nodes (intersections) on the net-
work, D is the set of nodes that are destinations, Os
is the set of all road sections (links) that start at inter-
section s, Is represents all the road sections that end
at intersection s, V (n, t) is the total amount of flow
that travels on pavement n at time t, V d(n, t) is the
amount of flow with final destination d, andD(s, d, t)
is the total flow that originates at node s and destined
for node d at time t. The objective function of Eq.
(10) is equivalent to the assumption that each road
user takes the path that minimizes travel time (Sheffi
1984). Equation (11) is commonly called a link per-
formance function; it describes the relationship be-
tween flow and travel time for a road section. The αn
and βn are the parameters specific to pavement n, and
c0(n) is the free-flow travel time of pavement section
n. Note that the road capacity is a function of the con-
tinuous states, which are discussed further in the next
paragraph. Equation (12) guarantees flow conserva-
tion for each destination at each intersection. Equa-
tion (13) indicates that the total flow of a road section
is the sum of flows to all destinations passing through
this road section. Equation (14) ensures that all flows
are non-negative.
The common definition of the capacity of a road
section is the maximum number of vehicles passing
a point on that road section over a unit of time. The
capacity of a highway decreases as the pavement con-
dition deteriorates (Chandra 2004). To capture this
effect, the capacity for pavement n at time t is de-
noted asC(n, t,{Xj(n, t),∀j ∈ J }), a function of the
continuous states for the same pavement at the same
time period. As a result, when the pavement condi-
tion is poor and capacity decreases, the same number
of travelers would experience longer travel times and
thus adjust their route choices to avoid the congestion.
These changes will influence the pavement deteriora-
tion rate and thus also influence the route choices of
road users in the next time period. This cycle repeats
in the planning horizon of the highway pavement net-
work and is a highly complex issue to consider in de-
termining optimal maintenance thresholds at the net-
work level.
min
N∑
n=1
∫ V (n,t)
x=0
c(n,x)dx, ∀t = 1, · · · , T (10)
s.t.
c(n,x) =
c0(n)
(
1 + αn
(
x
C(n, t,{Xj(n, t),∀j ∈ J })
)βn)
,
∀n = 1, · · · ,N, t = 1, · · · , T (11)
D(s, d, t) +
∑
n∈Is
V d(n, t) =
∑
n∈Os
V d(n, t),
∀t = 1, · · · , T, s ∈ S, d ∈ D, s ̸= d (12)
V (n, t) =
D∑
d=1
V d(n, t),∀n = 1, · · · ,N, t = 1, · · · , T (13)
V d(n, t) ≥ 0, ∀n = 1, · · · ,N, t = 1, · · · , T, d ∈ D (14)
2.3 Solution Method
Equations (1)–(14) constitute the optimization prob-
lem of maintenance thresholds. Solving this problem
presents two issues. The first is the logical statements
such as IF-THEN-ELSE and IF-AND-ONLY-IF in
the HDM. The second is the special bi-level form of
the problem. The threshold-based maintenance prob-
lem is intuitive and straightforward to formulate using
logical statements. However, these equations are not
compatible with standard optimization methodologies
and tools. To permit using existing tools to solve the
problem, the logical statements can be transformed
into standard mathematical constraints. The conver-
sions that are useful for HDM can be found in Bempo-
rad & Moran (1999) and Torrisi & Bemporad (2004).
Another issue in solving the problem is its special
bi-level form. One of the methods commonly used to
solve bi-level programming problems is local search
(Migdalas 1995). The local search method evaluates
the neighboring solutions and moves toward the best
solution among them. The step is repeated and a (lo-
cal) optimum can be found. To deal with bi-level pro-
gramming problems using local search, the lower-
level problem is treated as an implicit function of the
decision variables of the upper-level problem. In other
words, given a set of upper-level decision variables,
the lower-level problem must be solved first and the
objective function of the upper-level problem can then
be evaluated. The simple tabu search algorithm for
bi-level programming problems proposed by Wen &
Huang (1996) was extended to consider continuous
of the most commonly used preventive mainte-
nance actions in Taiwan. This strategy is denoted
as FogSeal.
3. Major maintenance: This type of maintenance
action generates significant, instantaneous im-
provement in IRI and costs more than preventive
maintenance. Milling and overlaying was used
as an example of major maintenance in this re-
search, based on the general practice in Taiwan.
This action is denoted as Overlay.
4. Reconstruction: Major maintenance such as
mill and overlay is effective for restoring pave-
ment IRI. However, it has little or no effect on the
pavements structural condition, which worsens
with pavement age to the point where at the end
of its life, pavement becomes weak and deterio-
rates rapidly. To restore a pavement’s structural
condition before it fails completely and loses its
ability to support transportation, the pavement
must be reconstructed. All the pavement states
are reset after reconstruction. The cost of recon-
struction is the highest of all types of mainte-
nance. This action is denoted as Reconst.
 
Figure 2. Highway system of urban Dasi Township.
3.2 Results
The problem was solved on a Windows 7, Intel Core
i7, 3.07-GHz desktop computer. The tabu search algo-
rithm introduced in Section 2.3 was written in Visual
C++ 2008. The objective function was evaluated us-
ing the CPLEX solver for upper-level problems and
the KNITRO solver for lower-level problems; both
these solvers are called by the AMPL modeling lan-
guage.
There are four levels of annual budget considered
in this example. The budgets were based on the his-
tory of annual maintenance funding in the area. Ta-
ble 1 presents the thresholds for maintenance actions
in each scenario given a range of annual budgets.
Without loss of generality, the budgets are assumed
to be the same in each time period; however, other
assumptions on funding availability are possible de-
pending on the actual situation. The results show that
the pavement must be reconstructed when it is 39
years old for the annual budget of 15 million NTD.
Fog seal should be applied when the IRI reaches 2.90.
Milling and overlaying should take place when the
IRI reaches 2.96. With a larger budget available, the
thresholds decrease or remain the same for τ1 and τ3.
A very small fluctuation occurs in τ2 when the budget
increases; however, the threshold still generally de-
creases. The patterns for the other three scenarios are
similar to Scenario 1. One of the motivations in adopt-
ing maintenance thresholds is the acceptance of opti-
mized maintenance strategies by transportation agen-
cies. The results clearly show that the trade-off be-
tween the strategies is intuitive and can be easily un-
derstood.
The final column of the table shows that the solu-
tion time for each budget scenario was in the range
7.5–10.9 hours. Because tabu search is a probabilistic
search method, the processing times for finding the
optimal solutions vary and do not necessarily have
clear trends. The only obvious trend is that the so-
lution times were longer for the tightest budget, i.e.,
the 15 million NT$ cases. Other factors affecting pro-
cessing times are inconclusive.
Table 1. Summary of Important Results
Budget Traffic CPU
(Million obj. func. Weighted time
NT$) τ1 τ2 τ3 (×109) Avg. IRI (hr)
15 2.96 2.90 39 11.27 2.64 10.9
20 2.73 2.04 31 10.32 2.42 7.7
25 2.40 2.01 31 9.59 2.25 7.5
30 2.24 2.02 31 9.27 2.17 7.5
4 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE RESEARCH
Threshold-based maintenance is compatible with
workflows in practice. Compared with maintenance
plans that provide details for maintenance action se-
lection and timing for each facility, threshold-based
maintenance is intuitive, robust, and easy to imple-
ment. Therefore, such a maintenance strategy is more
readily accepted by transportation agencies and has
greater potential for actual application in practice. In-
stead of using engineering judgment or past experi-
ence, the proposed methodology provides a frame-
work for modeling the process of threshold-based
maintenance and optimizing maintenance thresholds.
Therefore, the practical contribution of this research
is in improving threshold-based life-cycle manage-
ment practice by generating maintenance thresholds
that utilize maintenance budgets more effectively. An
example of an urban area in Taiwan was used to val-
idate the proposed methodology, and the resulting
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2013/01/28
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 最佳門檻值維護策略下之運輸設施生命週期管理
計畫主持人: 朱致遠
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-008-092- 學門領域: 交通運輸
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
