中文摘要 
 
基因轉錄受到轉錄因子及其結合位置所調控。近年來由於染色質免疫沈澱晶片以及演化
足跡出現，研究學者得以較準確地辨識結合位置。在本計畫中，我們首先利用這兩種資料
建立一方便使用者查詢的平台--MYBS，可以動態運用這兩筆資料找到所需的結合位置。根
據此資料庫，我們並發展一方法來辨識兩個轉錄因子其結合位置以及其之間的交互作用關
係。 
 
MYBS 結合了十一個資料庫，包括183轉錄因子，共 481 consensus 以及 71 position weight 
matrixes (PWMs)。MYBS 可讓使用者設定選擇不同的染色質免疫沈澱晶片以及演化足跡資
料以搜尋特定基因之啟動子的結合位置。此外，MYBS 提供一視覺化介面來觀察一群給定
基因的共同調控因子，以方便找尋轉錄因子之間的關連。MYBS 讓使用者可以查詢任兩個
轉錄因子共同調控的基因，以方便找尋轉錄因子中可能的合作關係。MYBS 的網址如下
http://cg1.iis.sinica.edu.tw/~mybs/。 
 
另外，我們根據 MYBS 蒐集的資料，我們提出一方法來同時辨識兩個轉錄因子的結合位
置與其可能存在的交互作用。基本想法為，如果兩個轉錄因子有交互作用，則他們的結合
位置應該會在他們共同調控基因的啟動子中伴隨出現，且在不同物種中保留得很好。我們
的方法測試酵母菌中 20,706 轉錄因子對，一共有 110 對具有顯著統計意義。而在這些轉錄
因子對中，大部分皆為文獻中認定為有交互作用，且我們找到的結合位置與已知的結果也
都符合。 
 
關鍵詞: 酵母菌、轉錄因子、結合位置、交互作用、染色質免疫沈澱晶片、
演化足跡 
 
 
前言與研究目的 
 
Eukaryotic gene expression is achieved by multiple layers of regulation, including transcription 
regulation, which requires transcription factors (TFs) to bind to their respective DNA binding 
sites (TFBSs) in a correct spatial and temporal manner (1). Identifying and characterizing the 
binding sites of TFs can permit a more comprehensive and quantitative mapping of the regulatory 
mechanisms within cells. Unfortunately, TFBSs are usually short (~ 5-15 bp) and degenerate (2), 
making it difficult to define TFBSs experimentally or computationally. 
In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, there are only a limited number of functional TFBSs that have 
been experimentally verified (3). Inference of TFBSs has thus been relying heavily on 
computational approaches. A number of plausible motif consensus sequences have been deduced 
by different bioinformatics methods that exploit sequence information. However, there have been 
reservations on using those consensuses to annotate the genome due to excessive false positives. 
Fortunately, the ChIP-chip technique (4) provides a powerful way to verify the DNA-binding 
affinity of TFs. In addition, phylogenetic footprinting methods that assume conservation of 
functional elements during evolution have been utilized to reveal TFBSs that are conserved across 
species (4, 5). 
A fair amount of confident TFBS information has been accumulated in various databases 
during the last few years. For example, SCPD (3), SGD (6), TRANSFAC (7), YPD (8) and 
YEASTRACT (9) contain an array of TF motif consensus sequences derived from the literature 
and experimental data. Some of them use simple sequence matching schemes to annotate the 
genome, which is noisy. SGD in particular remaps the TFBSs inferred by Harbison et al. (4), 
which took advantage of ChIP-chip data and phylogenetic information. However, SGD has a 
priori assumptions about the degree of conservation across species and binding affinities of TFs. 
SwissRegulon (10, 11) is another database where the site annotations were produced using several 
algorithms to perform on related genomes in combination with known sites from the literature, in 
addition to using ChIP-chip binding data. SwissRegulon contains a variety of experimentally 
verified or computationally predicted TFBSs for the entire genomes of 18 organisms. However, 
SwissRegulon currently lacks information about the degree of conservation across species and 
related condition-specific ChIP-chip experiments for TFBSs.  
Since the degree of conservation across species and binding affinities of TFs vary among TFs, 
we construct a comprehensive web server, mining yeast binding sites (MYBS), which integrates 
several types of data related to transcriptional regulation in S. cerevisiae. Via simple motif or gene 
queries, MYBS allows users to apply ChIP-chip data and phylogenetic footprinting filters on 
genomic data to perform dynamic binding site mapping. 
Further, it is known that TFs often cooperate to regulate genes. While traditional approaches 
can be used to discover binding motifs of a group of co-regulated genes, they often fail to assign 
motif(s) to the corresponding TFs. In this project, we consider two TFs together to infer their 
TFBSs and their synergistic relationship at the same time. We develop a method to find 
interacting TF pairs and their transcription factor binding sites (TFBSs) simultaneously. The basic 
idea is that if two TFs interact, their TFBSs, if distinct, would be conserved cross species and 
coincident in the promoter regions of the genes they co-regulated. Therefore, if we can find 
better evolutionarily conserved in Gαβ than in G-α-β. Finally, two motifs are selected as the 
corresponding binding motifs of α and β using our motif assignment scheme. Figure 2 shows the 
flowchart of our method. 
For each TF pair (TFs α and β), we generate four groups of genes, Gαβ, Gα-β, G-αβ and G-α-β.  
β 
Gαβ Gα-β
α 
G-αβ G-α-β
 
In cases where G-α-β contains less than 500 genes, we simultaneously lower the high thresholds (pc) 
of both TFs α and β until a satisfactory group size is obtained to ensure that we have enough 
sequences for background signals. Using Gαβ and G-α-β as our positive and negative groups, we 
generate PWMs from clusters of over-represented and evolutionarily conserved k-mers (length 
6-9bp) using TFBSfinder (19). We then select the corresponding binding motifs for each TF in the 
pair as follows. 
For each motif i, we identify in Gαβ, Gα-β, G-αβ and G-α-β promoters with at least one motif i 
occurrence (that is, αβiG  is the set of genes with motif i present in their promoter regions).  
β 
αβ
iG
βα−
iGα αβ−
iG
βα−−
iG  
We define a score iP α−>  which reflects the likelihood of motif i being assigned to TF α,  
| | | | | | | |1
| | | | | | | |
i i i i
i
G G G GP
G G G G
αβ α β αβ α β
α αβ α β αβ α β
− − − −
−> − − − −
⎛ ⎞+ += × −⎜ ⎟+ +⎝ ⎠
, 
and similarly for β, 
| | | | | | | |1
| | | | | | | |
i i i i
i
G G G GP
G G G G
αβ αβ α β α β
β αβ αβ α β α β
− − − −
−> − − − −
⎛ ⎞+ += × −⎜ ⎟+ +⎝ ⎠
. 
We also examine the co-occurrence of any two motifs i and j in the four groups, 
β 
αβ
ijG
βα−
ijG
α αβ−
ijG
βα−−
ijG
, 
where αβijG  is the set of genes with motif i and j co-occurring in their promoter regions. We 
define another measure ijQ  for the likelihood of co-occurrences of motifs i and j as  
| | | |
1
| | | |
ij ij
ij
G G
Q
G G
αβ α β
αβ α β
− −
− −
⎛ ⎞= × −⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
. 
To account for the possibility of piggy-back binding or that TFs α and β happen to recognize the 
same binding motif, we allow i=j. The product of these three scores collectively reflect the 
likelihood of motifs i and j being the binding motifs for TFs α and β.  
ijji QPP ** βα >−>− . 
We consider the set of motifs i and j that maximizes this product as the most likely binding motifs 
for TFs α and β.  
結果與討論 
MYBS APPLICATION 
MYBS provides a web-based interface with three main features: binding sites mining, regulatory 
association searching, and target gene selection for each TF pair. MYBS allows users to search for 
occurrences of a motif in the promoters of a gene, or potential binding sites for a TF. For binding 
motifs and TFs, their target genes are also reported. MYBS also enables users to visualize in 
parallel the potential regulators for a given set of genes and allows users to obtain 
target/non-target gene sets of a pair of TFs in different combinations. 
The underlying core of MYBS is the integration of motif information. Each motif is linked to 
one or more TFs, and points to a set of genes whose promoter sequences contain incidences of the 
motif. Similarly, there may be multiple consensuses accrued from various sources listed for a 
given TF. The bi-directional search can start from a TF, a motif, or a gene, and allows for easy 
identification of regulatory associations between TFs and between motifs. For example, the user 
can query a short sequence pattern (I.U.B. code allowed) to acquire a list of matching binding 
motif consensuses. One can choose a motif from the list for detailed information, including its 
corresponding TFs, the sequence logo, the position weight matrices (PWMs) and the cutoff 
thresholds of the PWMs. In addition, MYBS allows users to scan any given sequences for binding 
occurrences of the selected motif. The user can further select which TF he/she is interested in. 
With the choice of either or both of two user-defined filters, MYBS provides a potential target 
gene list of the selected motif and allows the user to look into visualized sequence information for 
one or multiple genes simultaneously. The user can include or exclude certain databases in the 
process, and also discover other potential regulators of the selected genes. All related information 
can be downloaded as plain text files or image files.  
Since MYBS allows users to dynamically select different criteria for desired TFBSs, it is not 
easy to know the reliability of the MYBS predictions. To address this issue, for 101 
experimentally verified TFBSs of 12 TFs (19) we analyzed their corresponding ChIP-chip p 
values and the degree of conservation. Overall, 12 sites failed to be recognized by the PWMs of 
the corresponding TF in the MYBS database. Figure 3 shows the range of ChIP-chip p values of 
these target genes and their degree of conservation across species. As shown, ~65% of promoters 
where the experimentally verified TFBSs reside have ChIP-chip p values < 0.01 and more than 
70% experimentally verified TFBSs are conserved in at least three species. 
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
< 
10
E-
7
10
E-
7
10
E-
6
10
E-
5
10
E-
4
10
E-
3
10
E-
2
10
E-
1
ChIP-chip p  values
Fr
ac
tio
ns
Identified
Not identified
 0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
N
um
be
r o
f o
rth
ol
og
ou
s g
en
es
 
(A)          (B) 
Figure 3 Distributions of ChIP-chip p values and the degree of conservation for 101 experimentally verified TFBSs in S. cerevisiae. (A) 
Comparison of ChIP-chip p values of 101 TFBSs that were identified and were not identified by MYBS. The ChIP-chip p values are shown in 
logarithmic scales. (B) The distribution of these TFBSs conserved in other seven species. The y-axis represents the number of orthologous genes in 
other yeast species. Each bar represents an experimentally verified TFBS, where the black bar and the white bar represent the number of 
orthologous genes with and without the conserved TFBS, respectively. 
the 16 most confident pairs. The remaining three pairs, despite having the “correct” motifs present 
among the ones generated, failed to denote the right motifs to the respective TFs. For both 
FKH2-SWI4 and MBP1-SWI4, we selected the MBF motif ACGCGT instead of the SBF 
(CNCGAAA) for SWI4, understandable as MBF is shorter and often co-occurs with SBF. The 
same goes for FKH2-NDD1; the program selected a shorter motif over the correct one. The same 
motif that was predicted for HAP1–HAP4 only matched partially to the literature specificities (30) 
(part of HAP1 and the kernel of HAP4).  
 
Table 1: Comparison of predicted binding specificities to literature consensus sequences (confident predicted interactions, ps<10-5). TF pairs in red 
have interactions supported by direct literature evidence. Consensus in blue indicates possible indirect binding motif(s) of a TF lacking DNA 
binding domain, those in green indicates motifs derived from other computational predictions. Colored logo: good match to the literature 
specificity. Starred logo*: partial match to the literature specificity. Grey scale logo: no match to literature specificity. Bracketed [logo]: an 
alternative motif matching the literature specificity that fails to be selected. 
TF pair Selected motifs Literature Consensus 
α β α β α β 
FHL1 RAP1 
  
CAYCCRTACA WRMACCCATACAYY
FKH1 FKH2 
 
 
GGTAAACAA GGTAAACAA 
FKH1 SWI6 
  
GGTAAACAA CNCGAAA ACGCGT 
FKH2 MBP1 
  
TTGTTTACC ACGCGT 
FKH2 NDD1  
[ ] 
 
[ ] 
TTGTTTACC TTGTTTACC 
FKH2 SWI4 
  
[ ] 
TTGTTTACC CNCGAAA 
FKH2 SWI6 
 * 
TTGTTTACC TTTCGNG ACGCGT 
HAP1 HAP4 
* * 
CGGNNNTANCGG YCNNCCAATNANM 
INO2 INO4 
  
GATGTGAAAT CATGTGAAAT 
MBP1 SWI4 
 
 
[ ] 
ACGCGT TTTCGNG 
MBP1 SWI6 
  
ACGCGT CNCGAAA ACGCGT 
MSN2 MSN4 
  
MAGGGG MAGGGG 
STB1 SWI4 
  
RRACGCSAA CNCGAAA 
STB1 SWI6 
  
RRACGCSAA CNCGAAA ACGCGT 
STE12 SWI4 
  
ATGAAAC TTTCGNG 
SWI4 SWI6 
  
CNCGAAA CNCGAAA ACGCGT 
 
計畫成果自評 
 在本計畫中我們建立一個針對酵母菌調控網路中轉錄因子與其結合位置的資料庫，該
資料庫包含許多各種異質的資料。使用者可以動態運用不同的條件找到可靠的結合位置。
例如，在不同的轉錄因子在染色質免疫沈澱晶片實驗下，會有不同的量測值，其結合位置
在不同物種下的演化速度也不同，使用者可以根據其他的文獻，透過此資料庫搜尋。我們
已經將該網站發表在 Nucleic Acids Research, 35, W221-W226。從發表至今，扣除中研院內
部的使用，我們的網站已經被參訪 1351 次。此外我們提出辨識兩個轉錄因子其結合位置以
及其之間的交互作用關係之方法也在重要的生物資訊國際會議『15th Annual International 
Conference on Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology (ISMB)& 6th European Conference on 
Computational Biology (ECCB)』發表。目前正在整理結果，並加以改善。 
 
 
參考文獻 
1. Britten, R. J. & Davidson, E. H. (1969) Science 165, 349 - 357. 
2. Stormo, G. D. (2000) Bioinformatics 16, 16-23. 
3. Zhu, J. & Zhang, M. Q. (1999) Bioinformatics 15, 607-11. 
4. Harbison, C. T., Gordon, D. B., Lee, T. I., Rinaldi, N. J., Macisaac, K. D., Danford, T. W., 
Hannett, N. M., Tagne, J. B., Reynolds, D. B., Yoo, J., Jennings, E. G., Zeitlinger, J., 
Pokholok, D. K., Kellis, M., Rolfe, P. A., Takusagawa, K. T., Lander, E. S., Gifford, D. K., 
Fraenkel, E. & Young, R. A. (2004) Nature 431, 99-104. 
5. Cliften, P., Sudarsanam, P., Desikan, A., Fulton, L., Fulton, B., Majors, J., Waterston, R., 
Cohen, B. A. & Johnston, M. (2003) Science 301, 71-6. 
6. Cherry, J. M., Adler, C., Ball, C., Chervitz, S. A., Dwight, S. S., Hester, E. T., Jia, Y., Juvik, 
G., Roe, T., Schroeder, M., Weng, S. & Botstein, D. (1998) Nucleic Acids Res 26, 73-9. 
7. Wingender, E., Chen, X., Fricke, E., Geffers, R., Hehl, R., Liebich, I., Krull, M., Matys, V., 
Michael, H., Ohnhauser, R., Pruss, M., Schacherer, F., Thiele, S. & Urbach, S. (2001) 
Nucleic Acids Res 29, 281-3. 
8. Hodges, P. E., McKee, A. H., Davis, B. P., Payne, W. E. & Garrels, J. I. (1999) Nucl. Acids 
Res. 27, 69-73. 
9. Teixeira, M. C., Monteiro, Pedro, Jain, Pooja, Tenreiro, Sandra, Fernandes, Alexandra R., 
Mira, Nuno P., Alenquer, Marta, Freitas, Ana T., Oliveira, Arlindo L., Sá-Correia, Isabel, 
(2006) Nucl. Acids Res 34, D446-451  
10. Pachkov, M., Erb, I., Molina, N. & van Nimwegen, E. (2007) Nucleic Acids Res 35, 
D127-31. 
11. Siddharthan, R., Siggia, E. D. & van Nimwegen, E. (2005) PLoS Computational Biology 1, 
e67. 
12. Dujon, B., Sherman, D., Fischer, G., Durrens, P., Casaregola, S., Lafontaine, I., De 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 95-2218-E-001-005 
計畫名稱 酵母菌基因調控網路之研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
蔡懷寬 
中央研究院資訊科學所助研究員 
會議時間地點 2007 年七月二十一日至八月三日奧地利維也納 
會議名稱 
15th Annual International Conference on Intelligent Systems for Molecular 
Biology (ISMB)& 6th European Conference on Computational Biology 
(ECCB) 
發表論文題目 Simultaneous Identification for Synergistic Transcription Factors and Their Transcription Factor Binding Sites 
 
參加會議經過以及與會心得 
 
本人於 2007 年七月二十一日至八月三日，在國家科學委員會 (NSC95-2218-E-001-005)及
中央研究院資訊研究所的資助下，前往奧地利維也納參加重要的生物資訊國際會議『15th 
Annual International Conference on Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology (ISMB)& 6th 
European Conference on Computational Biology (ECCB)』，並於會後前往法國巴黎之國立自然
歷史博物館（Muséum National d'Histoire Naturelle）參訪  ''Regulation, Development and 
Molecular Diversity''部門，並與其研究人員商討相關研究合作事宜。 
 
ISMB 是生物資訊學中幾個最重要的國際會議之一。今年在歐洲舉辦，故與歐洲計算生物
學會議一起舉辦，所以規模特別龐大。今年會議有來自數十個國家，近兩～三千位學者與會，
一共發表近六十餘篇的 oral papers 和數百篇的 poster papers，國內亦有二十餘位學者參加並發
表文章。此外也有十數個生物資訊應用系統展示，以及十來家廠商參展，另外也邀請數位在
生物資訊界有傑出研究成果的人物，進行專題演講。其中 PLOS track，大多數上台報告的學
者，其內容多半是已經在有名的期刊發表或是審核中，讓我可以在第一時間內得到許多第一
手的研究結果。此外亦有 Highlight Track，每一個 Track 都將相關領域的人聚集在同一個演講
聽，一起腦力激盪，實在是促進學術交流一個很好的方法。 
