 II
（二）英文摘要 
In order to support mobile multimedia Internet services, the third-generation Partnership 
Project (3GPP) is currently defining an all-IP reference architecture for next-generation 
mobile networks with the capability of providing high transmission rates and end-to-end 
quality-of-service (QoS) guarantees. In all-IP networks, the proxy call state control function 
(P-CSCF) is responsible for managing and controlling end-to-end multimedia sessions with 
different QoS requirements. Empirical evidence, however, suggests that an overloaded 
P-CSCF can have a significant impact on user perceived QoS. That is, the network-level QoS 
by itself is not sufficient to support end-to-end QoS. The P-CSCF must also have mechanisms 
for overload protection and application-level QoS support to make sure that the sessions are 
serviced according to their desired QoS. We have designed and developed a application-level 
differentiated service policy for supporting application-level QoS in the P-CSCF.  
In addition to the application-level QoS issues, we note that, for realizing mobile 
multimedia Internet services with end-to-end QoS guarantees, it is crucial to bind the 
application-level call setup procedures provided by the P-CSCF with the network-level IP 
QoS mechanisms. We also note that if the mobile terminal is aware of the implemented IP 
QoS mechanisms, it should implement the complete stacks for both application-level call 
setup procedures and IP QoS mechanisms. This will be a heavy burden for light mobile 
terminals with limited memory and processor capabilities. To relieve the mobile terminals of 
unneeded implementation complexity, this project plans to move all the IP QoS-related 
functions of the mobile terminal to a local P-CSCF (called QoS-aware P-CSCF) that will 
control application-level call setup procedures and interact with the network-level QoS 
mechanisms. Therefore, this project has designed and developed a QoS binding strategy that 
associates the application-level call setup procedures to the network-level QoS mechanisms in 
order to eliminate the need for implementing IP QoS mechanisms in the mobile terminals, and 
to support end-to-end QoS guarantees to mobile terminals. 
Keywords: mobile multimedia Internet services, quality-of-service (QoS), third-generation 
Partnership Project (3GPP), all-IP, proxy call state control function (P-CSCF), overload 
protection, application-level differentiated service policy, QoS binding strategy. 
 1
1. 前言 
By combining Internet protocol (IP) and wideband radio technologies, next-generation 
mobile networks will provide mobile Internet services to users, including voice over IP (VoIP) and 
mobile multimedia applications with different quality-of-service (QoS) requirements. The 
Third-Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) is defining an all-IP reference architecture for 
next-generation mobile networks, which is based on 2G Global System for Mobile communications 
(GSM) and 2.5G General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) [1]—[4]. Fig. 1 depicts a simplified version 
of the all-IP reference architecture for next-generation wireless/mobile networks. An all-IP network 
is divided into a radio access network (RAN) and a core network (CN). The CN is further divided 
into a circuit switched (CS) domain, a packet switched (PS) domain, and the IP multimedia (IM) 
subsystem. 
The RAN consists of a set of radio network systems (RNSs) connected to the CN. The 
RNS offers a wideband code division multiple access (WCDMA) based technology to access the 
user equipment (UE). Regarding the CN, the mobile switching centers (MSCs)/GPRS support 
nodes (GSNs) perform all necessary functions in order to handle the CS/PS services to and from the 
UEs. In the CS domain, the MSC consists of a MSC server and a media gateway function (MGW). 
The MSC server is responsible for handling signaling whereas the MGW is responsible for handling 
data. The PS domain, which is the evolution of the 2.5G GPRS CN, is equivalently called 3G GPRS 
CN. In the 3G GPRS CN, the GSNs are the gateway GSN (GGSN) and the serving GSN (SGSN). 
The GGSN provides connections and access to the multimedia IP networks and the IM subsystem. 
It maintains routing information for the UEs to tunnel packets to the SGSN. The SGSN, in turn, is 
responsible for the delivery of packets to the UEs. The home subscriber server (HSS) contains the 
subscription and location information to support the call control entities (i.e., MSC, SGSN, GGSN, 
and call state control function (CSCF)) to complete the roaming procedure by solving 
authentication, addressing resolution, and location dependencies. 
 
Fig. 1: All-IP reference architecture. 
 3
The 3GPP has chosen SIP as the signaling protocol for setting up IP multimedia sessions 
with different QoS requirements. SIP is used between the UE and the IM subsystem to establish 
QoS guaranteed IP multimedia sessions. During the establishment of an IP multimedia session, the 
proxy CSCF (P-CSCF) is the first contact point within the IM subsystem for a UE. It behaves like a 
proxy server defined in [5]. In addition, the P-CSCF is also responsible for authorizing usage of the 
required network resources of multimedia sessions. The interrogating CSCF (I-CSCF) is the contact 
point within an operator's network for all connections destined to a roaming or non-roaming 
subscriber. Besides, the I-CSCF can also act as a firewall to shield the configuration, capacity, and 
topology of a network from other networks. It interrogates the HSS via Cx interface [3] for 
information to enable the call to be directed to the serving CSCF (S-CSCF). The S-CSCF provides 
session control services in the home PLMN. According to the architecture principle for Release 6, 
the service control for a roaming subscriber is designated by the home PLMN, i.e., the S-CSCF is 
located in the home PLMN [7]. Through Cx interface, it interacts with the HSS to download profile 
information for IM users. 
1.2 The Registration Procedure 
This section describes the registration procedure based on the above service model. 
Registration is a process by which the network becomes aware of the existence and the location of 
the UE. When the UE attempts to access mobile Internet services in an operator's network, it shall 
conduct the registration procedure, which consists of 3G GPRS registration, 3G GPRS packet data 
protocol (PDP) context activation, and IM registration. 
1.2.1  3G GPRS Registration 
In the 3G GPRS registration, the UE registers with the 3G GPRS following the 3G GPRS 
attach procedure. The 3G GPRS attach procedure is performed when the UE indicates its presence 
to the PLMN for the purpose of using the 3G GPRS services. This can be immediately after the UE 
has been switched on or later as the user decides to use the 3G GPRS services. The attach procedure 
is shown in Fig. 3, and is explained in the following steps. 
(1) The UE initiates the attach procedure by sending an ATTACH REQUEST message to the 
SGSN. The UE shall include the packet temporary mobile subscriber identity (P-TMSI) in 
the ATTACH REQUEST message to identify itself. If a valid P-TMSI is not available, the 
international mobile subscriber identity (IMSI) shall be included. 
(2) If the UE identifies itself with P-TMSI and it has changed the SGSN since detach, the new 
SGSN sends an IDENTIFICATION REQUEST message to the old SGSN to request the 
IMSI. The old SGSN then responds with an IDENTIFICATION RESPONSE message 
indicating whether the UE is known in the old SGSN or not. 
(3) If the UE is unknown in both the old and new SGSN, the new SGSN sends an IDENTITY 
REQUEST message to the UE. Upon receipt of the IDENTITY REQUEST message, the 
UE sends back an IDENTITY RESPONSE message with the IMSI. 
(4) If no mobility management (MM) context for the UE exists in both the old and new SGSN, 
authentication is mandatory. The MM context contains MM-related information, such as 
MM state, P-TMSI, routing area, authentication vectors, UE network capability, etc. 
Details for the MM context can be found in [8]. 
 5
(d) The HSS acknowledges the UPDATE GPRS LOCATION message by sending 
an UPDATE GPRS LOCATION ACK message to the new SGSN after the 
update of MM context is finished. If the location update request is rejected by 
the HSS, the new SGSN rejects the attach request by sending an ATTACH 
REJECT message to the UE. 
(6) If the attach request is accepted by the new SGSN, an ATTACH ACCEPT message is sent 
to the UE. In order to protect a user against being identified and located by an intruder, the 
new SGSN may perform the P-TMSI reallocation procedure to allocate a new P-TMSI to 
the UE. 
(7) If P-TMSI was changed, the UE acknowledges the received P-TMSI with an ATTACH 
COMPLETE message. 
1.2.2  3G GPRS PDP Context Activation 
After 3G GPRS registration, the UE can perform 3G GPRS PDP context activation 
procedure to establish an IP session with the P-CSCF. The detailed descriptions of PDP context 
activation procedure is illustrated in Fig. 4, and is explained as follows. 
(1) The UE sends an ACTIVATE PDP CONTEXT REQUEST message with the requested 
PDP type, PDP address (The UE shall leave PDP address empty to request a dynamic PDP 
address), Access Point Name (The APN may be used by the GGSN to differentiate external 
networks), and QoS profile to the SGSN. 
(2) The SGSN derives the radio access bearer (RAB) QoS attributes from the requested QoS 
profile, and then sends a RAB ASSIGNMENT REQUEST message with the RAB QoS 
attributes to the RNS. Note that the RAB service is realized by a radio bearer service 
between RNS and UE, and an Iu (Iu is the interface between the RNS and the SGSN) 
bearer service between RNS and SGSN. 
(3) The RNS maps the RAB QoS attributes onto the radio and Iu bearer characteristics and 
then invokes admission control function to grant or deny access to RAB services. If the 
radio bearer establishment between RNS and UE is granted, the RNS sends a RADIO 
BEARER SETUP message to the UE. 
(4) The UE then confirms the establishment of the radio bearer by sending a RADIO BEARER 
SETUP COMPLETE message to the RNS. 
(5) The RNS sends a RAB ASSIGNMENT RESPONSE message to the SGSN indicating 
whether the RAB establishment (including radio bearer and Iu bearer) was successful or 
not. 
(6) The SGSN derives the GGSN address according to the APN selection rules [8]. If no 
GGSN address can be derived, then the SGSN rejects the activation request by sending an 
ACTIVATE PDP CONTEXT REJECT message to the UE. If a GGSN address can be 
derived, the SGSN sends a CREATE PDP CONTEXT REQUEST message with the 
requested PDP type, PDP address (If the UE requests a dynamic address, then the GGSN is 
responsible for allocating the PDP address.), APN, and QoS profile to the GGSN. 
 7
(4) After S-CSCF selection, the I-CSCF then forwards the REGISTER request to the selected 
S-CSCF. 
(5) The S-CSCF sends its location information (i.e., S-CSCF address) to the HSS via Cx 
interface. The HSS shall store the S-CSCF address for that subscriber. 
(6) Through Cx interface, the S-CSCF sends the subscriber's identity to the HSS in order to 
download the subscriber profile.  
(7) The S-CSCF determines the home contact name (S-CSCF or I-CSCF) for the P-CSCF. The 
home contact name is used by the P-CSCF to forward signaling to the home PLMN. Note 
that if an I-CSCF is chosen as the home contact point, it may be distinct from the I-CSCF 
that appears in this registration flow. Through the I-CSCF, the S-CSCF forwards the SIP 
200 OK response with the home contact name to the P-CSCF. The P-CSCF shall store the 
home contact name associated with the UE, and forward this response to the UE indicating 
that registration was successful. 
 
 
Fig. 5: IM registration procedure. 
  
1.3  The Call Control Procedure 
For mobile multimedia Internet services with QoS guarantees to be successfully used by 
subscribers, it must ensure that network resources are made available before the subscribers can 
access the services. Thus, it is necessary to coordinate the service control provided by the IM 
subsystem and the connection control provided by the 3G GPRS to guarantee the requested QoS of 
established multimedia sessions. Fig. 6 shows the call control procedure between UEs, which 
consists of the IM service control (i.e., session initiation and acknowledgement), the 3G GPRS 
connection control (i.e., resource allocation), and the coordination between service control and 
connection control (i.e., resource authorization and approval). For the sake of simplicity, only UEs, 
GGSNs, and P-CSCFs are presented in this figure. 
 9
In the following, we provide an end-to-end call flow example to illustrate the call control 
procedure. In this example, UE#1 and UE#2 are located in the home PLMN and the visited PLMN, 
respectively. By performing 3G GPRS registration and PDP context activation, UE#1 and UE#2 
establish the IP sessions with P-CSCF#1 and P-CSCF#2, respectively (see step (8) in Fig. 4). When 
IM registration is complete, the home PLMN allocates S-CSCF#1 and S-CSCF#2 to UE#1 and 
UE#2, respectively (see step (3) in Fig. 5). Besides, S-CSCF#1 and I-CSCF#2 are designated as the 
home contact points of P-CSCF#1 and P-CSCF#2, respectively (see step (7) in Fig. 5). We assume 
UE#1 is the originating party and U#2 is the terminating party. 
1.3.1  Session Initiation and Resource Authorization  
As shown in Fig. 7, UE#1 starts the session initiation by sending the SIP INVITE request 
containing an initial SDP to P-CSCF#1. P-CSCF#1 then forwards the INVITE to the home contact 
point, i.e., S-CSCF#1. S-CSCF#1 validates the service profile and performs the service control 
required for this subscriber. For example, S-CSCF#1 may examine the media parameters and 
remove any choices that the subscriber does not have authority to request. After performing service 
validation, S-CSCF#1 forwards the INVITE to I-CSCF#1. Through Cx interface, I-CSCF#1 queries 
the HSS for current location of the terminating subscriber. HSS responds with the address of 
S-CSCF#2. I-CSCF#1 then forwards the INVITE to S-CSCF#2. S-CSCF#2 validates the service 
profile and performs the service control for this session setup attempt. If service validation is 
successful, S-CSCF#2 forwards the INVITE to I-CSCF#2 which acts as a firewall to keep the 
configuration of the home PLMN hidden. I-CSCF#2 then forwards the INVITE to UE#2 via 
P-CSCF#2 in the visited PLMN. 
Upon receipt of the INVITE request with the initial SDP, UE#2 determines the media 
capabilities that it supports, and responds with the SIP 183 SESSION PROGRESS response 
containing SDP back to UE#1 along the path established by the INVITE message. According the 
SDP contained in the 183 SESSION PROGRESS message, UE#1 decides the final SDP to be used 
in this session and sends the PRACK request to UE#2. As illustrated in Fig. 7, on receipt of the 
PRACK request with the final SDP, P-CSCF#1 and P-CSCF#2 authorize the required resources and 
generate the authorization information for the session based on the installed IP policy rules. UE#2 
acknowledges the PRACK request with the SIP 200 OK response. Note that the authorization 
information is sent to UE#1 and UE#2 in the 200 OK message and the PRACK message, 
respectively. 
1.3.2  Resource Allocation 
Upon receipt of the authorization information, UE#1 and UE#2 determine their needs for 
3G GPRS and IP resources from the final SDP, and execute the secondary PDP context activation 
procedure. The secondary PDP context activation procedure can be used to activate a PDP context 
while reusing the PDP address and other PDP context information from an active PDP context, but 
with different QoS profile. As shown in Fig. 8, UE#1 and UE#2 initiate the secondary PDP context 
activation procedure by sending the ACTIVATE SECONDARY PDP CONTEXT REQUEST 
message with the authorization information and the desired QoS profile to SGSN#1 and SGSN#2, 
respectively.  
 11
 
Fig. 8: Resource allocation. 
1.3.3  Resource Approval and Session Acknowledgement 
When the resource allocation is completed, GGSN#1 and GGSN#2 send the COPS RPT 
(Report) message specifying the commitment of resources for the session to P-CSCF#1 and 
P-CSCF#2, respectively, as illustrated in Fig. 9. Besides, to approve the completion of resource 
reservation, UE#1 sends the SIP COMET request to UE#2 through the signaling path established by 
the INVITE request. UE#2 then responds to the COMET request with the SIP 200 OK response. 
Finally, UE#2 responds the INVITE request with the SIP 200 OK final response. On receipt of the 
final response, UE#1 acknowledges the completion of session establishment by sending the ACK 
request to UE#2. The UEs now are able to start the conversation. 
 13
2. 研究目的 
As mentioned earlier, the P-CSCF is responsible for managing controlling end-to-end 
multimedia sessions with different QoS requirements. Empirical evidence, however, suggests that 
an overloaded P-CSCF can have a significant impact on user perceived QoS. That is, the 
network-level QoS by itself is not sufficient to support end-to-end QoS. The P-CSCF must also 
have mechanisms for overload protection and application-level QoS support to make sure that the 
sessions are serviced according to their desired QoS. Therefore, in the first year, the goal of this 
project is to design an application-level differentiated service policy for supporting application-level 
QoS in the P-CSCF. 
In addition to the application-level QoS issues, we note that, for realizing mobile 
multimedia Internet services with end-to-end QoS guarantees, it is crucial to bind the SIP call setup 
procedures provided by the P-CSCF with IP QoS mechanisms. We also note that if the mobile 
terminal is aware of the implemented IP QoS mechanisms, it should implement the complete stacks 
for both SIP call setup procedures and IP QoS mechanisms. This will be a heavy burden for light 
mobile terminals with limited memory and processor capabilities. To relieve the mobile terminals of 
unneeded implementation complexity, this project plans to move all the IP QoS-related functions of 
the mobile terminal to a local P-CSCF (called QoS-aware P-CSCF) that will control 
application-level call setup procedures and interact with the network-level IP QoS mechanisms. 
Therefore, in the second year, the goal of this project is to design a QoS binding strategy that 
associates the application-level call setup procedures to the network-level QoS mechanisms in order 
to eliminate the need for implementing IP QoS mechanisms in the mobile terminals, and to support 
end-to-end QoS guarantees to mobile terminals. 
3. 研究方法與文獻探討 
The standards related to the P-CSCF [7], [15]—[18] are still evolving, and new functions 
and features will continue to be added. In order to make sure that our design is compatible with the 
current and upcoming P-CSCF standards, this project will study and keep track of the P-CSCF 
standards. Besides, as mentioned earlier, the P-CSCF must have mechanisms for overload 
protection and application-level QoS support to make sure that the sessions are serviced according 
to their desired QoS. The application-level QoS support for the Web server in integrated services 
Internet has recently started to receive increasing attention in the literature [19]─[23].  
We note that supporting application-level QoS in the P-CSCF becomes even more 
challenging due to user mobility. Therefore, taking user mobility into account, this project has 
designed an application-level differentiated service policy for supporting application-level QoS in 
the P-CSCF, which mainly includes a request classifier to identify the incoming multimedia 
connection requests of each class so as to classify differentiated services with different QoS 
requirements, and a session-based admission controller to prevent the P-CSCF from becoming 
overloaded so as to maintain the desired QoS of existing multimedia sessions. By taking mobility 
effects into account, this project has developed a queueing model to study the performance of the 
application-level differentiated service policy. In order to verify the accuracy of the analytical 
model, this project has also implemented an event-driven simulation. 
For the realization of mobile multimedia Internet services in all-IP networks, it is crucial to 
bind the SIP call setup procedures provided by the P-CSCF with IP QoS mechanisms. We note that 
if the mobile terminal is aware of the implemented IP QoS mechanisms, it should implement the 
complete stacks for both SIP call setup procedures and IP QoS mechanisms. This will be a heavy 
 15
當高優先權 sessions 的連線數量超過 BT時，低優先權 sessions 便不能進入系統，縱使
尚未達到低優先權 sessions 的最多連線數量限制。如此，將能有效的確保高優先權 sessions
的服務品質。此外，為了確保高優先權 sessions 的服務品質並充分的利用網路的頻寬，決定
最佳的 BT 值，是 session-based 允許控制策略的重要課題。為此，我們發展了佇列分析模式並
定義一個權重函數(weighting function) R，來決定最佳的 BT值： 
( ) ( )lDlhDh PCPCR −+−= 11  
其中，Ch 及 Cl分別是高優先權及低優先權 sessions 的權重值； 1=+ lh CC ； hDP 及 lDP 分別是高
優先權及低優先權 sessions 的連線阻塞機率(connection blocking probability)。在理想狀況下，
R 的最大值等於 1；也就是當 0=hDP 及 0=lDP 時。以下是計算 hDP 及 lDP 的佇列分析： 
The system is modeled by a continuous-time model with the following parameters and 
assumptions. 
1. The arriving high- and low-priority sessions are Poisson distributed with mean rates λI 
and λII, respectively. 
2. The service times of high- and low-priority sessions are exponentially distributed with 
means of 1/µh and 1/µl, respectively. 
3. The P-CSCF service area residence times of high- and low-priority portables are 
exponentially distributed with means 1/ηh and 1/ηl, respectively. 
4. The timeout periods of high- and low-priority sessions are exponentially distributed 
with means 1/γh and 1/γl, respectively. 
5. The number of available channels is c and all channels are employed in a First-Come 
First-Serve manner. 
6. βh=ηh + γh and βh=ηh + γh. 
When the number of busy channels is less than c, as shown in Fig. 11, the system can be 
described by a two-dimensional continuous-time Markov chain with state sm,n where m and n denote 
the number of existing high- and low-priority sessions in the system, respectively. If the number of 
busy channels is greater than or equal to c, as shown in Figs. 12-15, the system can be described by 
a three-dimensional continuous-time Markov chain with state si,j,k where i and j denote the number 
of queued high- and low-priority sessions, respectively, and k denotes the number of high-priority 
sessions in service. 
 17
 
Fig. 13: i+j=1. 
 
Fig. 14: i+j>1 and i<BT. 
 19
If i+j>1 and i<BT then 
 
If i+j>1 and i>BT then 
 
The steady-state probabilities satisfy the following normalization condition 
 
and can be solved by using an iterative method called successive overrelaxation [26]. 
 
A newly-arrived session may be blocked for one of two reasons. The first is that as a 
session arrives, no legitimate channel is available and the buffer is full, called immediate blocking. 
The second is that although a session has been accepted and is waiting in the queue, it fails to access 
a free channel within its timeout period, called queued blocking. When a high-priority session 
arrives, it will be blocked immediately if the high-priority queue is full. The immediate blocking 
probability of high-priority sessions is given by 
 
A low-priority session will be blocked when the low-priority queue is full or the number of 
queued high-priority sessions is greater than BT . Thus, the immediate blocking probability of 
low-priority sessions is given by 
 
 21
Figs. 16-17 plot the system performance as a function of the mobility rate of high- and 
low-priority portables. From Fig. 16, we observed that the blocking probabilities of high- and 
low-priority sessions decrease as the mobility rate of low-priority portables increases. As mobility 
rate of low-priority portables increases, the low-priority queue occupancy times decrease, resulting 
in the decrease in the low-priority queue length and, hence, the associated decrease in the blocking 
probabilities of high- and low-priority sessions. Besides, Fig. 16 shows that the blocking probability 
of high-priority sessions decreases as the mobility rate of high-priority portables increases under 
smaller mobility rate of high-priority portables, and increases as the mobility rate of high-priority 
portables increases under larger mobility rate of high-priority portables. This phenomenon can be 
inferred from the following facts. Under smaller mobility rate of high-priority portables, as mobility 
rate of high-priority portables increases the system experiences smaller queue occupancy times, 
resulting in the associated decrease in the blocking probability of high-priority sessions. On the 
other hand, as mobility rate of high-priority portables increases under larger mobility rate of 
high-priority portables, the high-priority queue occupancy decreases. Since the high-priority queue 
occupancy decreases, resulting in the increase in the contending traffic of high-priority sessions. As 
the contending traffic of high-priority sessions increases, the blocking probability of high-priority 
sessions increases.  
Fig. 17 shows that the blocking probability of low-priority sessions decreases as the 
mobility rate of high-priority portables increases. Similarly, as the mobility rate of high-priority 
portables increases the high-priority queue occupancy times decrease, resulting in the associated 
decrease in the blocking probability of low-priority sessions.  
 
 
Fig. 16: Blocking probability of high-priority sessions under different mobility rates. 
 23
 
Fig. 19: 不同低優先權行動台移動速度下之最佳 BT值。 
4.2  服務品質串聯策略(QoS binding strategy) 
除了應用層服務品質的議題，我們也注意到，在 All-IP 網路中實現具有點對點服務品
質保證的行動多媒體應用服務的首要工作，是要把應用層由 P-CSCF 負責的多媒體對話控制
與網路層的 QoS 機制加以串聯(bind)。這意謂著，行動設備也必須同時具備應用層的多媒體
對話控制與網路層的 QoS 機制，才能使用 All-IP 網路所提供的行動多媒體應用服務。這樣的
要求，對記憶體不大、處理器能力有限的行動設備而言，真是嚴重的負擔。因此，為了減輕
行動設備的負擔，本計畫打算把網路層的 QoS 機制轉移到 P-CSCF 上執行，這類的 P-CSCF
稱為 QoS-aware P-CSCF。QoS-aware P-CSCF 將負責應用層的多媒體對話控制並與網路層的
QoS 機制互動。因此，為了免除行動設備必需具備網路層 QoS 機制的負擔，並提供行動設備
點對點服務品質保證，本計畫設計並發展，服務品質串聯策略(QoS binding strategy)以串聯應
用層的多媒體對話控制與網路層的 QoS 機制。 
目前行動網路業者提供給用戶的服務品質保證，完全取決於用戶與業者所簽定的
Service Level Agreement (SLA) [24,27,28]。服務品質的層級，則取決於所付費用的多寡。因此，
本計畫考量計價(charging)對實現具有點對點服務品質保證的行動多媒體應用服務的影響，設
計並發展服務品質串聯策略，以最佳計價，來改善資源利用度並達成最佳的使用者滿意度與
最大的業者收益。本研究為了達成此目標，以 P-CSCF 服務區域的差異，來作為服務品質的
劃分。服務類別劃分為：Full-Coverage (high-priority)和 Local (low-priority)。Full Coverage 服
務用戶能夠在 P-CSCF 服務環境下，採用具移動性的行動網路（2G/3G）或高速寬頻網路
(WiMax/WLAN）來存取服務。至於，Local 服務用戶則僅能於區域性較小的寬頻網路
WiMax/WLAN）範圍內來使用行動多媒體應用服務。不同服務勢必各自擁有不同的用戶，但
是在資源有限的情況下，該如何改變各服務之間的需求比例，便顯得相當重要。為了達成此
目的，服務品質串聯策略透過價格的調整，來影響需求的變化。因此，最佳服務品質串聯策
略，調整二類服務間的最佳價格比例，來改善資源利用度並達成最佳的使用者滿意度與最大
的業者收益。 
 25
 
Fig. 21: 需求彈性對需求及價格的影響。 
Fig. 22 是 P-CSCF 的系統模型，其中 λ1是 Local 服務的 Arrival Rate，λ2是 Full-Coverage
服務的 Arrival Rate，B 是佇列容量。假設系統的訊務負載量為 λ，則 
 
上式中，D1 為 Local Demand，D2 為 Full-Coverage Demand，分別為： 
 
 
 
 
以(i,j,k)來代表系統的狀態，其表示佇列中存在 i 個 Local 與 j 個 Full-Coverage 服務的用戶，k
為伺服器狀態。當 k = 0 代表伺服器閒置，k = 1 代表伺服器正在服務 Local 用戶，k = 2 代表
伺服器正在服務 Full-Coverage 用戶。伺服器挑選 Local 或 Full-Coverage 用戶進入伺服器服務
的機率，其值為： 
. 
 
Fig. 22 是 P-CSCF 的系統模型。 
 
 27
 
 
 
 29
 
 
  31
參考文獻 
[1] G. Patel and S. Dennett, “The 3GPP and 3GPP2 movements toward an All-IP mobile network,” IEEE 
Personal Commun. Mag., pp. 62--64, August 2000. 
[2] 3GPP TR 23.922, “Architecture for an All-IP network,” v4.0.0, 2001. 
[3] 3GPP TS 23.002, “Network architecture; release 7,” v7.1.0, 2006. 
[4] 3GPP TS 23.221, “Architectural requirements; release 7,” v7.1.0, 2007. 
[5] J. Rosenberg et al., “SIP: session initiation protocol,” IETF RFC 3261, 2002. 
[6] 3GPP TS 29.061, “Packet domain; interworking between the public land mobile network (PLMN) 
supporting packet based services and packet data networks (PDN); release 7,” v7.3.0, 2007. 
[7] 3GPP TS 23.228, “IP multimedia subsystem (IMS); Stage 2; Release 8,” v8.0.0, 2007. 
[8] 3GPP TS 23.060, “General packet radio service (GPRS); service description; stage 2; release 7,” 
v7.4.0, 2007. 
[9] M. Handley and V. Jacobson, “SDP: session description protocol,” IETF RFC 2327, 1998. 
[10] R. Braden et al., “Resource ReSerVation Protocol (RSVP); version 1 functional specification,” IETF 
RFC 2205, 1997. 
[11] R. Yavatkar et al., “A framework for policy-based admission control,” IETF RFC 2753, 2000. 
[12] D. Durham et al., “The common open policy service (COPS) protocol,” IETF RFC 2748, 2000. 
[13] J. Boyle et al., “COPS usage for RSVP,” IETF RFC 2749, 2000. 
[14] K. Chan et al., “COPS usage for policy provisioning,” IETF RFC 3084, 2001. 
[15] 3GPP TS 23.107, “Quality of service (QoS) concept and architecture; release 6,” v6.4.0, 2006. 
[16] 3GPP TS 23.207, “End-to-end quality of service (QoS) concept and architecture; release 6,” v6.6.0, 
2005. 
[17] 3GPP TS 23.218, “IP multimedia (IM) session handling; IM call model; Stage 2; release 7,” v7.5.0, 
2007. 
[18] 3GPP TS 29.208, “End to end quality of service (QoS) signalling flows; release 6,” v6.6.1, 2006. 
[19] S. C. M. Lee et al., “A proportional-delay diffserv-enabled Web server: admission control and 
dynamic adaptation,” IEEE Trans. Parallel and Distributed Systems, 15(5), pp.385-400, 2004. 
[20] S.-K. Lea et al., “Application-level QoS negotiation and signaling for advanced multimedia 
services in the IMS,” IEEE Commun. Mg., pp.108-116, July 2007. 
[21] M. M. Rashid et al., “An analytical approach to providing controllable differentiated quality of 
service in Web servers,” IEEE Trans. Parallel and Distributed Systems, 16(11), pp.1022-1033, 2005. 
[22] L. Zeng et al., “QoS-aware middleware for Web services composition,” IEEE Trans. Software 
Engineering, 30(5), pp.311-327, 2004. 
[23] V. Kanodia and E. W. Knightly, “Ensuring latency targets in multiclass Web servers,” IEEE Trans. 
Parallel and Distributed Systems, 14(1), pp.84-93, 2003. 
[24] J. Song et al., “Overview of ITU-T NGN QoS control,” IEEE Commun. Mg., pp.116-123, 
September 2007. 
[25] G. Lampropoulos et al., “Media-independent handover for seamless service provision in 
heterogeneous networks,” IEEE Commun. Mg., pp.64-712, January 2008. 
[26] R. Cooper, Introduction to Queueing Theory, New York: North-Holland, 1981. 
[27] C. Filsfils and J. Evans, “Deploying Diffserv in backbone networks for tight SLA control,” IEEE 
Internet Computing, pp.58-65, January/February 2005. 
[28] T. Taleb et al., “Toward efficient service-level QoS provisioning in large-scale 802.11-based 
networks,” IEEE Network. Mg., pp.42-48, September/October 2007. 
[29] S. Lanning et al., “Optimal planning for optical transport networks,” Philosophical Trans. 
Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, 358(1773), pp. 2183-2196, August 2000. 
[30] Y.-R. Haung et al., “A service model for supporting mobile Internet services in All-IP networks,” 
submitted to IEEE Trans., 2007. 
[31] Y.-R. Haung et al., “An optimal pricing strategy for P-CSCF,” preparing to submit to IEEE Trans., 
2008. 
