Abstract 
 
Large strain actuation in barium titanate (BaTiO3) single crystals subjected to 
combined uniaxial stress and electric field is examined.  A maximum strain of about 
0.45% is measured under a combined loading of 2.7 MPa compressive stress and 
±1.25 MVm-1 cyclic electric field.  Above 2.7 MPa, the crystal does not cycle fully 
between the in-plane and out-of-plane polarized states due to large compressive stress, 
and consequently, a considerable reduction in actuation strain is apparent. 
 
Keywords: BaTiO3; Single crystals; Domain switching; Electromechanical loading; 
Hysteresis 
 
1. Introduction 
 
Among all ferroelectric materials, single crystal ferroelectrics have received 
extensive attentions recently due to their ability to provide a high degree of 
polarization domain alignment with electrical poling, which could in turn give rise to 
superb piezoelectric characteristics.  Various attempts have been carried out to 
develop large strain actuation in ferroelectric single crystals either via phase transition 
or via domain switching [1-3].  In the present study, the switching characteristics of 
barium titanate (BaTiO3) single crystals are investigated.  This is achieved through 
examining their hystereses in the electric polarization (P) vs. electric field (E) and 
strain (ε) vs. electric field (E) responses.  The effect of constant bias stress on the 
hysteresis behavior is also examined.  BaTiO3 single crystals are chosen for this 
study because they are readily available at a reasonable cost. 
 
2. Experimental procedure 
 
A series of polarization and strain hysteresis measurements under combined 
uniaxial electrical and mechanical loadings were performed on unpoled 
(001)-oriented cuboidal BaTiO3 single crystals measuring 5 × 5 × 2 mm3.  The 
crystals were obtained from MTI Co., CA, USA.  Conductive silver paints were used 
to produce electrodes on the 5 × 5 mm2 surfaces.  A loading fixture shown in Fig. 1 
was developed for the simultaneous application of uniaxial compressive stress and 
electric field.  The loading fixture consisted of brass plates, providing electrical 
contact to the electrode surfaces of the crystal, and nylon spacers to insulate the 
crystal from the mechanical load frame.  The upper brass plate was connected to 
ground via a ferroelectric analyzer (Model TF2000, aixACCT, Germany) for charge 
 1
evident from Fig. 2b that with increasing compressive stress, ε33,total increases 
significantly and eventually reaches a maximum value of 0.45% at 2.7 MPa.  As the 
compressive stress increases to levels higher than 2.7 MPa, ε33,total is quickly reduced 
and the classic butterfly-shaped strain hysteresis becomes squashed and broadened.  
This hysteresis behavior suggests that at stresses higher than 2.7 MPa, polarization 
switching is happened over a wider range of electric field and high strain actuation is 
harder to achieve even with an applied electric field much higher than the coercive 
field.  A similar trend to ε33,total is also observed for the apparent piezoelectric 
coefficient (d33), obtained from the slope gradient of the strain hysteresis curve at zero 
electric field.  A maximum apparent d33 value of 6700 pCN-1 is measured at 2.7 MPa 
of compressive stress.  Further increase of stress leads to a gradual decrease in the 
apparent d33. 
 
The corresponding P-E hystereses shown in Fig. 2a also display stress-dependent 
characteristics.  At zero or low stress levels (≤ 1.7 MPa), a Pr of about 21.0 µCcm-2 
is measured, which is lower than the theoretical spontaneous polarization value of 
26.0 µCcm-2 for BaTiO3 [4,5].  This is most likely to be caused by the incomplete 
switching of polarization during the loading cycle.  This inability in switching is also 
evident from the relatively large measured Ec value (0.35 MVm-1), and from the 
considerable deviation of the P-E hysteresis from the classic boxy rectangular shape 
typically expected for single crystal ferroelectrics.  It is evident from Fig. 2a that as 
the compressive stress is increased above 1.7 MPa, the corners of the P-E hysteresis 
become rounded, both the saturation polarization (Psat) and Pr start to decrease, and 
switching is completed over a wider range of electric field.  The measured Pr value 
at 4.0 MPa is approximately 15% smaller than the Pr value at zero stress. 
 
Large strain changes in ferroelectric crystals caused by domain switching are 
typically induced through angles other than 180° [4,6].  At zero compressive stress, 
the BaTiO3 single crystal cycles between the two out-of-plane polarized states (i.e., 
180° domains perpendicular to the top and bottom electrodes) by going rapidly 
through the in-plane polarized state (i.e., a domain parallel to the electrodes) 
“sandwiched” in between the two out-of-plane states.  Therefore, there is little strain 
detected at zero compressive stress, and hence the relatively flat ε-E hysteresis curve.  
As the compressive stress is increased, the loading path begins to go through the 
in-plane 90° polarized state at a slower rate.  This is because that the 90° domain 
state is enhanced through the means of ferroelastic switching (i.e., stress-activated 
switching).  Consequently, the actuation strain rises due to the development of 90° 
switching.  The amount of actuation strain continues to increase with increasing 
 3
Fig. 2.  Measured (a) polarization vs. electric field and (b) strain vs. electric field 
hysteresis curves for unpoled (001)-oriented BaTiO3 single crystal at various constant 
compressive stresses. 
 
 
4. Conclusion 
 
Strain actuation in BaTiO3 single crystals subjected to combined uniaxial stress 
and electric field is examined.  The enhancement of 90° domain switching by 
additional compressive stress (i.e., stress-activated ferroelastic switching) results to 
larger strains.  A maximum strain of about 0.45% is measured under a combined 
loading of 2.7 MPa compressive stress and ±1.25 MVm-1 cyclic electric field.  The 
BaTiO3 single crystal used in the present study possesses hardening and 
depolarization characteristics. 
 
References 
 
[1] S. E. Park and T. R. Shrout, J. Appl. Phys. 82, 1804 (1997). 
[2] X. B. Ren, Nat. Mater. 3, 91 (2004). 
[3] E. Burcsu, G. Ravichandran, and K. Bhattacharya, J. Mech. Phys. Solids 52, 823 
(2004). 
[4] F. Jona and G. Shirane, Ferroelectric Crystals (Pergamon, New York, 1962). 
[5] S. Wada, S. Suzuki, T. Noma, T. Suzuki, M. Osada, M. Kakihana, S. E. Park, L. 
E. Cross, and T. R. Shrout, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 1 38, 5505 (1999). 
[6] J. E. Huber, Curr. Opin. Solid State Mater. Sci. 9, 100 (2005). 
 
計畫成果自評 
 
With limited availabilities of time and funding, the polarization and strain 
hystereses of barium titanate (BaTiO3) single crystals have been studied extensively.  
These single crystals have the potential to become highly-efficient actuators if their 
non-linear straining behaviors are fully understood.  The present study provides 
important experimental data in this regard.  It is found that the enhancement of 90° 
domain switching by additional compressive stress (i.e., stress-activated ferroelastic 
switching) results to larger strains in BaTiO3 single crystals.  Based on the research 
findings, several international journal papers have been published or are currently 
under preparation for submission. 
 5
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-002-159- 
計畫名稱 鐵電單晶體在機械偏壓下之巨大電致應變表現研究：實驗、模擬、與元件雛型 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
謝宗霖助理教授，國立臺灣大學材料科學與工程學系暨研究所 
會議時間地點 Brisbane, Australia, 10-12 December 2007 
會議名稱 5th Australasian Congress on Applied Mechanics, ACAM 2007 
發表論文題目 Large strain actuation in barium titanate (BaTiO3) single crystals under stress and electric field 
 
一、參加會議經過及與會心得 
 
The meeting at Brisbane, Australia was a success.  International scholars and researchers in the 
field of ceramic smart materials were very interested in the polarization and strain hysteresis 
measurements of barium titanate (BaTiO3) single crystals under electromechanical loadings.  
There were lots of discussions on the characterization and possible actuating applications of BaTiO3 
single crystals.  The disproportion of slope gradients at zero electric field for the measured 
polarization and strain hysteresis curves was a topic of high interest since this phenomenon would 
challenge the conventional understandings of ferroelectric and ferroelastic switchings.  Overall, 
this was a highly productive and worthwhile conference trip.  The conference proceeding is 
attached below. 
 
 of epoxy resin was applied to the exposed surface of the strain gauges to afford extra insulation 
against electrical breakdown.  The entire loading fixture was supported in a silicon oil bath to prevent 
breakdown arcing, and all tests were carried out at temperatures in the range of 20-25°C. 
 
Unpoled BaTiO3 single crystal 
 
 
 Silicon 
oil bath Nylon 
Brass
100 
Uniaxial stress 001 2mm 
5mm 
5mm 010 
Strain output 
Strain gauge 
Ferroelectric analyzer 
Ground
High voltage amplifier 
Uniaxial stress 
Strain 
amplifier
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FIG. 1.  Schematic of the combined uniaxial electromechanical loading apparatus. 
 
3 Measurements and discussion 
3.1 Hysteresis behaviors 
Figures 2a and 2b show the stable P-E and ε-E hysteresis curves for the 5 × 5 × 2 mm3 unpoled (001)-
oriented BaTiO3 single crystal measured at various compressive stresses ranging from 0 to 4.0 MPa.  
The applied cyclic electric field has a frequency of 0.2 Hz and an amplitude of ±1.25 MVm-1.  At zero 
compressive stress, the crystal exhibits a remanent polarization (Pr) of 21.0 µCcm-2, a coercive field 
(Ec) of 0.35 MVm-1, and a total electrostrain (ε33,total) of about 0.14% in the 33-direction.  It is evident 
from Fig. 2b that with increasing compressive stress, ε33,total increases significantly and eventually 
reaches a maximum value of 0.45% at 2.7 MPa.  As the compressive stress increases to levels higher 
than 2.7 MPa, ε33,total is quickly reduced and the classic butterfly-shaped strain hysteresis becomes 
squashed and broadened.  This hysteresis behavior suggests that at stresses higher than 2.7 MPa, 
polarization switching is happened over a wider range of electric field and high strain actuation is 
harder to achieve even with an applied electric field much higher than the coercive field.  A similar 
trend to ε33,total is also observed for the apparent piezoelectric coefficient (d33), obtained from the slope 
gradient of the strain hysteresis curve at zero electric field.  A maximum apparent d33 value of 6700 
pCN-1 is measured at 2.7 MPa of compressive stress.  Further increase of stress leads to a gradual 
decrease in the apparent d33. 
The corresponding P-E hystereses shown in Fig. 2a also display stress-dependent characteristics.  At 
zero or low stress levels (≤ 1.7 MPa), a Pr of about 21.0 µCcm-2 is measured, which is lower than the 
theoretical spontaneous polarization value of 26.0 µCcm-2 for BaTiO3 [4,6].  This is most likely to be 
caused by the incomplete switching of polarization during the loading cycle.  In other words, the 
unpoled 5 × 5 × 2 mm3 BaTiO3 single crystal tested in the present study is unable to produce one 
single polarization domain at 1.25 MVm-1.  This inability is also evident from the relatively large 
measured Ec value (0.35 MVm-1), and from the considerable deviation of the P-E hysteresis from the 
classic boxy rectangular shape typically expected for single crystal ferroelectrics.  It is evident from Fig. 
2a that as the compressive stress is increased above 1.7 MPa, the corners of the P-E hysteresis 
 
 to the top and bottom electrodes) by going rapidly through the in-plane polarized state (i.e., a domain 
parallel to the electrodes) “sandwiched” in between the two out-of-plane states.  Therefore, there is 
little strain detected at zero compressive stress, and hence the relatively flat ε-E hysteresis curve.  As 
the compressive stress is increased, the loading path begins to go through the in-plane 90° polarized 
state at a slower rate.  This is because that the 90° domain state is enhanced through the means of 
ferroelastic switching (i.e., stress-activated switching).  Consequently, the actuation strain rises due to 
the development of 90° switching.  The amount of actuation strain continues to increase with 
increasing stress and reaches its peak value at 2.7 MPa.  Above this stress level, the domains do not 
cycle fully between the in-plane and out-of-plane polarized states due to large compressive stress.  At 
this point, the crystal experiences a large physical constraint and therefore a considerable reduction in 
actuation strain is apparent; e.g., at 4.0 MPa, ε33,total decreases to about 0.25% only.  At large 
compressive stresses, the incomplete (partial) polarization switching to the out-of-plane polarized 
states also causes a decrease in both Psat and Pr, as clearly shown in Fig. 2a. 
3.2 Multiple 90° switching systems 
An important discovery is made after carefully examining the hysteresis data shown in Fig. 2 – a 
significant disproportion of slope gradients at zero electric field for the measured polarization and 
strain hysteresis curves is apparent, especially at high compressive stresses.  Here, the phrase 
“disproportion of slope gradients” means that the two quantities defined by the rate of change of 
polarization with respect to electric field and the rate of change of strain with respect to electric field do 
not remain in a constant ratio.  The discovered disproportion characteristic would imply a “decoupling” 
between switching strain and switching polarization within the BaTiO3 single crystals.  This seems to 
be in contradiction to the common understanding of ferroelectrics that switching-induced strain is 
accompanied by changes in polarization [4,5].  Although adopting a totally different loading setup, the 
hystereses measured by Burcsu et al. [3] also display a severe disproportion of slope gradients at zero 
electric field; see Fig. 3 for Burcsu et al’s hysteresis measurements at stresses of 1.07 and 1.78 MPa. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FIG. 3.  Burcsu et al’s hysteresis measurements at compressive stresses of 1.07 and 1.78 MPa [3]. 
 
