2新世代行動寬頻異質接取網路中網路管理機制之研究(1/3)
Network Management Mechanisms for Next Generation Mobile
Broadband Heterogeneous Access Networks (1/3)
計畫編號：NSC 94-2213-E-008-018
執行期限：94年 8月 1日至 95年 7月 31日
主 持 人：周立德 教授 國立中央大學資訊工程學系
計畫參與人員：呂長哲、賴韋丞、李建毅、黃志閔、林毅銘、
廖健棻、陳志遠、林彥丞、梁宏漢、鄭師堯、陳建麒
一、中文摘要
近年來行動網路接取技術之發展日新
月異，802.11 Wi-Fi、GPRS、3G 等異質的
無線行動網路已被廣為使用。在異質無線
網路中最大的問題是使用者具有移動性。
當使用者在漫遊時，如何讓網路管理中心
能正確且快速的得知使用者的位置資訊，
並藉由使用者的位置資訊來讓傳呼者能夠
快速的取得使用者的位置來建立通訊是ㄧ
個重要的議題。本計畫第一年度針對異質
無線網路之特性，研究位置管理之策略並
提出可行之架構。位置管理機制包含了位
置更新機制以及傳呼機制，因此本計畫提
出 Geographical Location Registration
(GLR) 位置管理機制，針對使用者在不同
的異質網路中訂定訊號傳送機制，並運用
位置資訊之搭配並讓傳呼機制能夠快速的
傳呼使用者且降低訊號封包整體花費。本
計畫並以傳統模式與 GLR機制進行比較，
整體傳呼花費可達 53%的改善，突顯本架
構所具有之降低傳呼花費能力。此外當使
用者移動速度增加時，傳呼的花費也不會
大幅增加。
關鍵詞：異質接取網路、位置管理、位置
更新、傳呼機制
Abstract
As the rapid development of mobile
broadband access network technologies in
recent years, 802.11 Wi-Fi, GPRS and 3G
access networks have been widely used.
Users have the characteristic of mobility in
these wireless heterogeneous networks. As
users are roaming, How to report rapidly the
current location of users to network
management center, so that the pagers are
able to obtain the right user location for
establishing communication, has become an
important issue. In the first project year, we
focus on the architecture and policies of
location management for wireless
heterogeneous networks. In the first project
year we propose the Geographical Location
Registration (GLR) mechanism for location
updating and paging, where the location
information in wireless heterogeneous
networks is maintained to rapidly page other
users and to reduce the overall cost.
Compared to traditional mechanisms, the
proposed GLR mechanism is capable of
improving the paging cost by 53%. Besides,
as the moving speed of users increases, the
paging cost will not increase substantially.
Keywords: heterogeneous access network,
network management, location
update, paging
二、計畫緣由與目的
無線網路的發展使得人們的生活與網
路更密不可分，但能提供無線網路的服務
不只一種，使用者也可能會同時使用一種
以上的無線網路，多重無線網路同時提供
網際網路的服務便稱為異質無線網路。異
質無線網路並不會在短時間內整合成為單
一種無線網路，原因有許多，諸如成本的
考量、用途考量，而使用者也會希望能使
用多種無線網路，以享用更大範圍的服
務、更高的機動性及更划算的價格。因此
異質無線網路環境在可預見的未來將備受
矚目。
4上述四種情形的位置更新流程是相同
的，如圖二所示，其步驟如下：
1. 使 用 者 從 / iMSC VLR 移 動 到
/ jMSC VLR ，傳送位置更新要求給
/ iMSC VLR 。
2. / iMSC VLR 轉送更新要求給 iHLR ，
並同時傳送更新訊息給 ijGLR，告知更
新資料庫。
3. iHLR 更新資料庫後，傳回 ACK 訊息
給使用者。
4. 接到 ACK訊息後，使用者傳送取消訊
息（Cancel Message）給 jHLR ，取消使
用者的紀錄
5. jHLR 收到取消訊息後，轉送取消訊息
/ jMSC VLR ，取消使用者的紀錄
3.3 傳呼機制
傳呼機制為當外界找尋使用者時，網路
管理中心於所負責的基地台中搜尋使用
者，以便提供連線服務。在本計畫提出的
架構中，依使用者所在的位置有三種傳呼
的可能性，分別描述如下：
Case 1：傳呼者在同ㄧ LRG 區域也在同ㄧ
子網路系統下
圖三為傳呼的程序，其步驟如下：
1. 有ㄧ傳呼傳送到 iHLR ，恰好使用者的
使用要求已註冊在 iHLR，所以 iHLR 直
接傳送要求給 / iMSC VLR 。
2. / iMSC VLR 收到要求後，找尋使用者的
位置，並且透過 iHLR 指派一 Temporary
location directory number（TLDN）給
傳呼者。
Case 2：傳呼者在同ㄧ LRG 區域但不在同
ㄧ子網路系統下
圖四為傳呼的程序，其步驟如下：
1. 有ㄧ傳呼傳送到 iHLR ，使用者的使
用要求已註冊在 iHLR ，所以 iHLR
直接傳送要求給 / iMSC VLR 。
2. / iMSC VLR 搜尋資料庫，發現目標
並不存在於 / iMSC VLR 中，便傳送
搜尋要求給 ijGLR 。
3. ijGLR 搜尋資料庫，找尋其他的
圖二 位置更新流程
圖三 Case 1 傳呼機制之程序
圖四 Case 2 傳呼機制之程序
圖五 Case 3 傳呼機制之程序
6服務範圍是 AP服務範圍的 20倍時傳呼花
費之比較。當傳呼與位置更新比例為 1:1，
使用者移動速度增加時，所提機制還是能
夠將花費控制在傳統架構的 50%以下。
圖八之模擬環境為傳呼與位置更新比
例 1:1且在不同 BS的服務範圍下的比較。
結果顯示當增加 BS的服務範圍時，所需的
傳呼花費也會相對增加，但是在本計畫提
出的架構中所需之傳呼花費較少。當位置
更新比例比較低時，傳輸花費亦較少，而
且對整體傳呼的影響也較小。
五、結論
模擬結果顯示本計畫所提之GLR異質
網路位置管理架構具有高度降低傳呼花費
的能力，在處理傳呼高速移動使用者方面
也能有較低的花費。另外針對位置更新比
例較低時，也有較少的傳呼花費。此外，
所提之架構也具有高度的延展性且能避免
GLR成為網路的瓶頸。
六、自我評估
本計畫目前已經發表四篇會議論文於
IEEE ISCN 2006、WASN 2006、CSIT
2005、TANet 2005 等國內外研討會中，並
已有一篇期刊論文為 ACM Springer
Mobile Networks and Applications (ACM
MONET) 國際期刊 (SCI, EI) 所接受，研
究成果陸續增加中。
參考文獻
[1] R. Chen, S. Yuan, and J. Zhu, “A 
Dynamic Location Management Method
of Personal Communication System,” 
Proceedings of 2004 E-Tech, Pakistan,
pp. 1-9, July 2004.
[2] A. Djalil Assouma and R. Beaubrun,
“ Mobility Management in Heterogene-
ous Wireless Networks,”IEEE Journal
on Selected Areas in Communications,
vol. 24, no. 3, pp. 638-648, Mar. 2006.
[3] S.-J. Choi, M.-S. Baik and C.-S. Hwang,
“Location Management & Message 
Delivery Protocol in Multi-region
Mobile Agent Computing Environ-
ment,” Proceedings of 24th
International Conference on Distributed
Computing Systems, Tokyo, Japan, pp.
476-483, Mar. 2004.
[4] Y.-H. Zhu, G.-G. Zhou, D.-H. Shi and J.
Gao, “A Location Management Scheme 
With Layered Cells Within Location
Areas,” Proceedings of 2004 WCNC --
IEEE Wireless Communications and
Networking Conference, Los Angles,
USA, pp. 255-259, Mar. 2004.
[5] S.-Y. Kim and W.W. Smari, “Reducing 
Location Management Costs in
Hierarchical-based Model of Mobile
and Wireless Computing Systems,” 
Proceedings of 2003 IRI IEEE
International Conference on Informa-
tion Reuse and Integration, Las Vegas,
pp. 428-435, Oct. 2003
[6] The Network Simulator: ns-2, http://
www.isi.edu/nsnam/ns.
1. The 1st International Workshop on RFID
and Ubiquitous Sensor Networks
2. The Second International Symposium on
Ubiquitous Intelligence and Smart
Worlds
3. The International Workshop on Trusted
and Autonomic Ubiquitous and
Embedded Systems
4. The First International Workshop on
Security in Ubiquitous Computing
Systems
5. IFIP International Symposium on
Network-Centric Ubiquitous Systems
本國際會議的主題涵蓋 Embedded
Computing 與 Ubiquitous Computing 兩個
Tracks，其議題包括
 Embedded Computing
- Embedded Hardware and Software
- Embedded System Architecture
- Hardware/Software Co-design
- Real-time Systems
- Testing and Verification
- Application-specific Processors and
Devices
- Power-aware Computing
- Sensor Networks
- Applications
- System/Network-on-Chip
- Reconfiurable Computing
- Others and emerging new topics
 Ubiquitous Computing
- Pervasive Computing &
Communications
- Middleware and Peer-to-Peer
Computing
- Internet Computing and Applications
- Multimedia Systems
- Network Protocols
- Wireless Communication & Networks
- Agents and Mobile Computing
- Security and Fault Tolerant Systems
- User Interface Technologies
- Human-computer Interaction
- Applications
圖二、 參與大會情況 (2)
圖一、 參與大會情況 (1)
L.T. Yang et al. (Eds.): EUC 2005, LNCS 3824, pp. 683 – 692, 2005. 
© IFIP International Federation for Information Processing 2005 
QoS Routing with Link Stability in Mobile Ad Hoc 
Networks* 
Jui-Ming Chen, Shih-Pang Ho, Yen-Cheng Lin, and Li-Der Chou 
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, 
National Central University, 
No.300, Jhongda Rd, Jhongli City, Taoyuan County 32001, Taiwan(R.O.C) 
Tel: +886-3-422-7151 ext 57968, Fax: +886-3-422-2681 
cld@csie.ncu.edu.tw 
Abstract. In this paper, in accordance with requirements of different users and 
supplying effective usage of limited network resources, we propose a stable QoS 
routing mechanism to determine a guaranteed route suited for mobile ad hoc 
wireless networks. The manner exploits the received signal strength (RSS) 
techniques to estimate the distance and the signal change of the velocity to 
evaluate the breakaway.  To ensure the QoS it chooses a steady path from the 
source to the destination and tries to reserve the bandwidth. Ultimately, it is clear 
to find that the performance never decrease even the growth of the overhead and 
the movement of users via the simulated by ns-2. 
1   Introduction 
Mobile Ad Hoc Wireless Networks (MANET), also called the Ad hoc network, is lots 
of moving nodes (mobile hosts) communicating with their adjacent mobile node by 
radio wave. Every node can contact each other without existence infrastructural 
network. In the Ad hoc network, it differs from cellular wireless networks that need 
base stations to deliver and receive the packets. Each node plays the role as a router. 
When one of them wants to deliver packets to destination out of its coverage, 
intermediate nodes will forward this packet to the next node till the destination node 
receive it. 
In traditional cellular wireless networks, generally we need to establish base stations 
in advance. Fixed nodes far and near connect to the backbone and become a wireless 
network environment. In this network the customer who wants to communicate with 
another must locate in the base station coverage. If user moved out of base station’s 
service scope, he can't take the communication. Consequently, we need to establish 
enough base stations to achieve the objective. Ad hoc networks do not demand fixed 
                                                          
*
  This research was supported in part by National Science Council of the Republic of China 
under the grant NSC 93-2219-E-008-002, and by Computer and Communications Research 
Labs, Industrial Technology Research Institute under the grant T1-94081-12.  
 QoS Routing with Link Stability in Mobile Ad Hoc Networks 685 
4.We assume the moving direction and users’ speed are random and not 
influenced by another user. Its average speed maintenance time is Ts. The arrival 
procedure of user is Poisson Distribution and its average arrive rate is λ
(requests/second). The keep time of user call as well as Exponential distribution and its 
average is Td and let 1−= dTµ . 
Every couple of source and destination node is random selected. In order to evaluate 
the influence of system by different policies, this paper defines the following reference 
index: 
(1). Routing control overhead ( overheadT ): Assume the normal number of packets is 
Nc, all the number of packets transmitted is allN , and we define the formula.  
allcoverhead NNT /= . 
(2). The transmission success rate of system ( successP ): the numbers of packets that 
was received successfully of all network is receiveN , the numbers of real packets was 
sent is Nsend, we define: sendreceivethroughout NNP /=  
(3). jil , : The link between node i and node j that can transmit message again. 
(4). advT : the period of time that each node broadcasts its status packet. 
(5). ( )jiBW , : the maximum available bandwidth of path from i to j, jiP , . 
(6). ( )tS ji , : the node i receive the signal strength from node j at time t, the unit of ( )tS ji ,  is dB. 
(7). predictjiT , : prediction of the invalidity time of link lij. 
(8). ( )xPath ds , : if the x th path from node i to node d will pass through nodes (s, x, 
y,…,z ,w ,d) then we define path is ( ) { }dwwzyxxsds llllxPath ,,,,, ∪∪∪= K  
(9). ( )xPath predictds , : Prediction of the invalidity time of path Paths,d(x) is  
( ) ( )predictdwpredictjspredictds TTminxPath ,,, ,, ⋅⋅⋅=  
(10). dsRPath , :if we have k path that fit QoS requirement from node i to node d, the 
most stable routing path is. ( )( )kxxPathRPath predictdsds ,,2,1|max ,, L=∀=  
(11). We have two different traffic types (QoS and Best Effort) in our system; the 
ratio of QoS is f. 
We can find if the signal strength in distance r1 is S(r1), the signal strength in 
distance r2 is S(r2)[11], as equation 1: 
( ) ( )( )( ) ( )1222
2
2
1
2 1 rsrrrh
r
r
rS d ×∆×−= ∗ρ                                   (1) 
In this paper, we assume the notation 0d =ρ . If number of photons sent was Np , the 
signal strength in the distance r from source is S , rp ANS /= . Then the signal strength 
in distance 2r will be 4SA4N rp = ; in distance 3r will be 9S , the rest can be 
deduced accordingly. 
 QoS Routing with Link Stability in Mobile Ad Hoc Networks 687 
Using equation 4, we can derive the relation equation 5 of predictjiT , . Using equation 5, 
we can calculate the predictive lifetime of path, equation 6. 
( ) ( )predictdwpredictlspredictds TTkPath ,,, ,,min L=                                   (6) 
Table 1. ( )( )ttVAvg ji ∆−, and ( )tV ji,  
Case ( )( )ttvAvg ji ∆−, ( )tv ji, Status
1 - - Keep approahing
2 - + Start leaving
3 + - Start
approaching
4 + + Keep leaving
 
B.   The Method of Stable Path and QoS Routing 
The method we propose that each node have to maintain two tables, one is Signal 
Affinity Table (SAT), the other is Zone Route Table (ZRT). Each node will broadcast a 
routing information packet periodically with a time period beaconT , when a node receives 
the packet from its neighbor nodes then it records it in its SAT. We can use equation 2.  
i
j j
tR
( )ttr ji ∆−,
( )tr ji,
( )tv ji, predictjiT , i
j j
tR( )ttr ji ∆−,
( )tr ji,
( )tv ji,predict
jiT ,
 
Fig. 1. In the condition of uniform motion, the signal strength of node j per t times 
node i
1r
2r
node i
1r
2r
node i
1r2r
)r(S 1
)r(S 2
)r(S 1 )r(S 1
)r(S 2
)r(S 2
(a) (b) (c)
 
Fig. 2. Different conditions but have the same variation rate of signal strength 
 QoS Routing with Link Stability in Mobile Ad Hoc Networks 689 
average arrival rate is λ . That 1−= dTµ and user calling duration is exponential 
distribution. The average duration dT  is 180s.Their are 1000 calling-requests during the 
simulation. 
B.  Simulation Results 
Fig. 3 shows the influence of transmission success rate and control overhead by the 
speed of nodes. Because our proposal possesses the ability of prediction invalidity time 
of path, we can handle it effectively. Fig. 4 shows the influence of transmission success 
rate, control overhead and control packet ratio by the arrival time 1/λ (seconds per call), 
and vice versa the arrival rate defines λ. 
Maximum node speed
5 10 15 20 25 30 35
Tr
an
sm
iss
io
n
 s
u
cc
es
s 
ra
te
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
0.45
0.50 DSR 
DSDV 
ZRP 
ZRP with affinity
Max-Min ZRP
50node
0.01
=
=λ
 
(a) 
sucess
P  vs. 
max
v  
Maximum node speed
5 10 15 20 25 30 35
A
m
o
u
n
t o
f c
o
n
tr
o
l p
ac
ke
ts
 (b
yt
e)
0
1e+7
2e+7
3e+7
4e+7
5e+7
6e+7
7e+7
DSR 
DSDV 
ZRP 
ZRP with affinity
Max-Min ZRP 
50node
0.01
=
=λ
 
(b) Control overhead vs. 
max
V  
 
Fig. 3. maxv vs. throughput and overhead 
 QoS Routing with Link Stability in Mobile Ad Hoc Networks 691 
We can discover when the arrival rate of user calls increase, the control overhead of 
DSDV is higher than DSR. Because DSDV must exchange its information with 
neighbor nodes, so its control overhead will increase, and the ratio of control packet 
will be higher. The method we propose is based on ZRP. Consequently, the control 
signal overhead is between those of DSR and DSDV. We simulate the method we 
proposed with QoS scheme, we divided the zone radius into Z=2. We can discover 
when the arrival rate is lower, the route discovery latency will be smaller, but when the 
arrival rate is higher, the route discovery will increase. We can discover the more QoS 
type traffic that must cause more call blocking rate. If the load of network is very heavy, 
new calls will be sacrificed; the call blocking probability will be increased. We find out 
the loss rate is less than all Best Effort traffic with our proposal and just only 30~40% 
miss rate with our predictive policy. Similarly, the transmission success rate is also 
higher than ZRP even without pre-route of our method. If the load of network is very 
heavy, the route discovery latency of network may be long, but they are also much less 
than 1 sec that is the unit of the predictive time. 
5   Conclusion 
The Ad hoc network makes it easy to build up a network environment anytime, 
anywhere. But the node mobility will break down the paths transmitting data and 
make the system ineffective. So we propose a method to prediction the broken time of 
a path and can find a most stable path. According to the simulation results, we can 
discover if without the QoS service, the transmission success rate of the most stable 
path we select can increase at most 40% of the ZRP, and its control load can in a 
certain range. When QoS service is taken into consideration, if the load of network is 
very heavy, the packet loss rate of network may also stays at 60% below, but new 
calls will be sacrificed, the call blocking probability will increase. The transmission 
success rate of our method without the function of pre-route is also better than ZRP. 
So the Stable path is useful. 
References 
[1] M. Conti and S. Giordano, “Mobile Ad-hoc Networking,” Proceedings of IEEE 34th An-
nual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences (HICSS-34), vol. Abstracts, pp. 
250-250, Jan. 2001. 
[2] J. Broch, D. A. Maltz, D. B. Johnson, Y.-C. Hu and J. Jetcheva, “A Performance 
Comparison of Multihop Wireless Ad Hoc Network Routing Protocols,” Proceedings of 
the Fourth Annual ACM/IEEE International Conference on Mobile Computing and Net-
working (MOBICOM’98), Dallas, Texas, USA, pp. 85-97, Oct, 1998. 
[3] J. Raju and J. J. Garcia-Luna-Aceves, “A Comparison of On-Demand and Table Driven 
Routing for Ad-Hoc Wireless Networks,” Proceedings of 2000 IEEE International Confer-
ence on Communications (ICC’2000, New Orleans, Louisiana, USA, vol. 3, pp. 
1702-1706, June 2000 
 
