semantics for nodes. Second, we propose a role-based 
entity clustering method to identify and group nodes 
playing similar roles in the network. Instead of node 
clustering using only graph structure (i.e., 
conventional community detection), the expected 
result of nodes in a single role-based cluster would 
be scattered around the network. In the end, the 
experiments are conducted on a real-world UCI KDD 
movie dataset. Using our modeling mechanism to 
generate signature profiles and applying our mining 
algorithms, we demonstrate the proposed heterogeneous 
centralities and role-based clustering can indeed 
find some meaningful and interesting results that are 
otherwise hard to be found using other methods. We 
also provide some rational explanations in terms of 
effectiveness to validating these two tasks. 
英文關鍵詞： social network, data mining, centrality 
 
 2
是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估，
並請至本會網站線上製作。（格式如附件二） 
(五)頁碼編寫：請對摘要及目錄部分用羅馬字 I 、II、 III……標在每頁下方中央；報告內
容至附錄部分請以阿拉伯數字 1.2.3.……順序標在每頁下方中央。 
(六)附表及附圖可列在文中或參考文獻之後，各表、圖請說明內容。 
(七)可供推廣之研發成果資料表： 
1.研究計畫所產生之研發成果，應至國科會科技研發成果資訊系統（STRIKE 系統，
https://nscnt66.nsc.gov.tw/strike/）填列研發成果資料表（如附件三），循執行機構行政
程序，由研發成果推廣單位（如技轉中心）線上繳交送出。 
2.每項研發成果填寫一份。 
(八)若該計畫已有論文發表者(須於論文致謝部分註明補助計畫編號)，得作為成果報告內
容或附錄，並請註明發表刊物名稱、卷期及出版日期。若有與執行本計畫相關之著作、
專利、技術報告、或學生畢業論文等，請在參考文獻內註明之。 
三、計畫中獲補助國外或大陸地區差旅費、出席國際學術會議差旅費或國際合作研究計畫差旅
費者，須依規定分別撰寫心得報告，並至本會網站線上繳交電子檔，心得報告格式如附件
四、五、六。 
四、報告編排注意事項 
(一)版面設定：A4 紙，即長 29.7 公分，寬 21 公分。 
(二)格式：中文打字規格為每行繕打（行間不另留間距），英文打字規格為 Single Space。 
(三)字體：以中英文撰寫均可。英文使用 Times New Roman Font，中文使用標楷體，字
體大小以 12 號為主。 
 附件一
 4
摘要 
社群網路是一種能夠描述個體彼此關係之資料結構，至目前相關研究人員在具有單一個體類型與單一
關係類型之同質性網路，已成功提出許多網路分析之方法。然而，真實世界之複雜網路通常為異質性，
亦即存在多重類型之個體與關係。本計畫整合高階關係類型資訊，提出一種非監督式、以 tensor 為基
礎之方法與模型，來捕捉異質性網路中節點之語意於一種 signature profile 之特徵空間。基於該模型，
本論文解決兩個異質性網路探勘之議題。第一，我們提出貢獻度、多樣性程度與相似度之三種異質性
中心度指標，來衡量節點之重要性；第二，我們考慮節點於網路中扮演之角色來進行分群。我們使用
一真實之電影網路來進行實驗評估，對於異質性中心度量測與網路角色分群，展示探勘之結果及其物
理意義。 
 
Abstract 
Social network is a powerful data structure allowing the depiction of relationship information between entities. 
Recent researchers have proposed many successful methods on analyzing homogeneous social networks, 
assuming only a single type of node and relation. Nevertheless, real-world complex networks are usually 
heterogeneous, which presumes a network can be composed of different types of nodes and relations to 
capture diverse kinds of semantic information in the network structure. In this project, we propose an 
unsupervised tensor-based mechanism, which consider both network topological information and higher-order 
relational information as relational sequences, to model the complex rich semantics of different entities. The 
signature profiles are produced for each entity and derived as a vector-based representation to enable existing 
mining algorithms to apply for further heterogeneous social network analysis tasks. In addition, based on this 
model, we present solutions to tackle two fundamental and critical issues in social network analysis. First, we 
identify different aspects of central individuals through three proposed measures, including contribution-based 
centrality, diversity-based centrality, and similarity-based centrality, each of which captures distinguished 
meaningful semantics for nodes. Second, we propose a role-based entity clustering method to identify and 
group nodes playing similar roles in the network. Instead of node clustering using only graph structure (i.e., 
conventional community detection), the expected result of nodes in a single role-based cluster would be 
scattered around the network. In the end, the experiments are conducted on a real-world UCI KDD movie 
dataset. Using our modeling mechanism to generate signature profiles and applying our mining algorithms, 
 6
their corresponding relationships as tuples such as <D1, direct, M1>, <M1, has actor, A1>, <M3, originate from, 
M4>, where the capital letter in the tuple stands for the type of source node, and the second element stands for 
the type of relations. 
 
Figure 1.1: A heterogeneous social network for movie domain. The capital letter of each node stands for its 
type: M(movie), D(director), A(actor), and W(writer). 
A heterogeneous social network in fact contains significantly more semantic information than a 
homogeneous one. Therefore, applying homogeneous analysis methods to it could lead to a loss of 
information in the process. For example, in degree centrality, a person with multiple distinct types of 
interactions with others is treated identically as the one with multiple identical type of interaction with others, 
as long as they have identical number of edges. Indeed people might believe the former is more central since 
it connects diversely to others. Therefore, we think it is necessary to consider the typed labels of links or 
nodes in heterogeneous social network analysis. 
 
Figure 1.2: An illustrated example for the community detection and the proposed role-based clustering. 
Similar issue occurs for entity clustering in a heterogeneous social network. We believe it is better to take 
both the typed relations and the topological information into account for clustering. Let us consider an 
example illustrated in Figure 1.2 of a heterogeneous social network where different kinds of edges (i.e., line, 
dot and dash) indicate different types of relations. The three gray regions are the results of entity clustering 
exploiting a community detection algorithm [23]. We can observe it simply uses structural information to find 
densely inter-connected groups and ignores the heterogeneous information provided through the labels. In this 
 8
signature profile produced through modeling, and their outputs are a ranked list and grouped sets respectively. 
 
3. 文獻探討 
The study of social network has been preceded for more than ten years. Here we review some works related to 
issues we intend to handle.  
Node Centrality 
In sociology and graph theory, many centrality measures have been defined to measure the importance of 
nodes in a network based on the structural connectivity. We first review some common centrality measures for 
homogeneous social networks. 
 Degree Centrality. It defines the centrality of nodes as the degrees of them [9]. If a node has more 
directly connected neighbors, it is regarded as an active individual. 
 Closeness Centrality. Nodes tending to have shorter geodesic distance to others will have higher 
closeness scores [9]. The measure is defined as CC(x)=1/Σy in V dist(x,y), where dist(x,y) is the length of 
the shortest path between node x and y. 
 Betweenness Centrality. It measures whether a node plays the bridging role in a social network. If 
removing a node leads to the destruction of many shortest paths between pairs of nodes, this node will be 
regarded as having a higher betweenness centrality score [10]. The betweenness centrality can be 
generated as CB(x)= Σs≠x≠t in V, s≠t σst(x)/σst , where σst is the number of shortest paths from s to t, and σst(x) 
is the number of shortest paths from s to t that pass through node x. 
 Eigenvector Centrality. Suggested by P. Bonacich [2], eigenvector-based centrality assigns a higher 
score to nodes connecting to other highly centralized nodes. The definition is CE(xi)=Σj=1~n aij CE(xj), 
where aij is the (i,j) element in adjacency matrix. This directly implies the well-known concept of the 
eigenvector computation AX=λX and the eigenvector represents the converged centrality scores. A similar 
idea has been applied to estimate the importance of nodes as well. The two famous measurements for 
Web mining, PageRank [25] and HITS [16], are simply realizations of eigenvector centrality. 
 Information Centrality. This employs the efficiency of information propagation as the criteria to define 
the influence of nodes [17]. The network efficiency is given by EG = (Σi≠j G εij)(n(n-1))-1 = 
(n(n-1))-1(Σi≠jG dij-1), where n=|V|, the efficiency εij is the cost of communication between node i and j, 
and it is equal to the inverse of the geodesic distance dij. Then the information centrality for node x can 
be defined as when the edges connected to x are removed, what is the relative drop of the network 
efficiency: CI(x) = (EG–EG/x)/EG, where G/x is the network without the edges involved in x. 
The above measures significantly rely on the network topology. However, they can hardly be applied 
effectively to the heterogeneous social networks due to the ignorance of the relational information. J. Shetty et 
 10
network. A heterogeneous community does not have to process dense connections within a certain relational 
graph, but its members might share similar and frequent interactions with communities of other relational 
graphs. Spectral relational clustering [19][20][34] is one of the most well-known approaches to identify 
communities in a heterogeneous network, which formulates the problem into factorization on multiple 
matrices or tensor structures. Then by optimizing a certain objective function with some relational constraints 
and the tolerant approximation, the relational clusters can be attained. Instead of partitioning the graph 
regarding patterns of interaction, we aim at grouping nodes based on their roles. D. Cai et al. [4] address 
another kind of community detection problem in heterogeneous networks through learning an optimal linear 
combination of a user-queried relational structure. More recently, Y. Sun et al. [33] propose a NetClus 
algorithm to discover a new kind of clusters in a heterogeneous network, where each member in the cluster is 
a subgraph with star-shaped schema. However, their solution is restricted to this specific schema and therefore 
cannot deal with higher-order relational information. 
The social role analysis considers the neighbor structures of nodes to estimate the roles they play, which has 
similar goals as our social role-based clustering algorithm. Diverse social roles can be identified using various 
equivalence classes. There are three major kinds of equivalence class, including structural, automorphic, and 
regular equivalence [37]. Two nodes are considered as structurally equivalent if both have identical links to 
and from other identical actors. The automorphic equivalence defines two actors as equivalent if they have the 
same local structure (i.e., pattern of graph isomorphism). The third and the least strict is the regular 
equivalence, which defines two actors as equivalent if both have similar links to members of other regular 
equivalence groups. 
The existing solutions to clustering nodes based on social roles, such as the blockmodeling approach [39] 
and profile similarity approach [3], suffer from the common limitation of the lack of ability to handle multiple 
relational data, let alone considering higher order connections. That is, past methods simply exploit the 
statistics of the immediate nodes and links for equivalence detection. Besides, Scripps et al. [28] identify 
different roles of nodes in a community, including ambassadors, big fish, loners, and bridges for homogeneous 
social networks. To the best of our knowledge, our solution to group nodes based on their semantic roles is the 
first to address this problem in the heterogeneous realm. It can be regarded as a generalized social role 
discovery model which simultaneously takes the diverse labeled relations and their higher-order combinations 
into consideration. Lin et al. [18] propose a model to capture the semantics of nodes in a multi-relational 
network to identify nodes with abnormal behaviors. Our tensor based model can be regarded as a theoretically 
more sound, intuitive, and general model which can naturally adopt higher-order interactions as well as 
temporal information (by adding one more dimension in the tensor). 
 
 12
[16] J. Kleinberg. Authoritative Sources in Hyperlinked Environment. Journal of ACM, 46(5), 604-632, 1999. 
[17] V. Latora and M. Marchiori. A Measure of Centrality Based on the Network Efficiency. New Journal of 
Physics, 9(6):188, 2007. 
[18] S. D. Lin and H Chalupsky. Discovering and Explaining Nodes in Semantic Graph. IEEE Transactions 
on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 20(8), 1039–1052, 2008. 
[19] Y. R. Lin, J. Sun, P. Castro, R. Konuru, H. Sundaram, and A. Kelliher. MetaFac: Community Discovery 
via Relational Hypergraph Factorization. In Proceedings of ACM SIGKDD International Conference on 
Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD’09), 527-535, 2009. 
[20] B. Long, Z. M. Zhang, X. Wu, and P. S. Yu. Spectral Clustering for Multi-type Relational Data. In 
Proceedings of International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML’06), 585-592, 2006. 
[21] S. Navlakha, R. Rastogi and N. Shrivastava. Graph Summarization with Bounded Error. In Proceedings 
of ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data (SIGMOD’08), 419-432, 2008. 
[22] M. E. J. Newman. The Structure and Function of Complex Networks. SIAM Review, 45:167-256, 2003. 
[23] M. E. J. Newman and M. Girvan. Finding and Evaluating Community Structure in Networks. Physics 
Review, E 69, 2004. 
[24] M. E. J. Newman. Finding Community Structure in Networks Using the Eigenvectors of Matrices. 
Physics Review, E 74, 2006. 
[25] L. Page, S. Brin, R. Motwani, and T. Winograd. The PageRank Citation Ranking: Bringing Order to the 
Web. In Technical Report, Stanford University, 1998. 
[26] V. Satuluri and S. Parthasarathy. Scalable Graph Clustering Using Stochastic Flows: Application to 
Community Detection. In Proceedings of ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge 
Discovery and Data Mining (KDD’09), 737-745, 2009. 
[27] R. Schrag. A Performance Evaluation Laboratory for Automated Threat Detection Technologies. In 
Proceedings of Performance Measures of Intelligent System Workshop (PerMIS’06), 2006. 
[28] J. Scripps, P. N. Tan, and A. H. Esfahanian. Exploration of Link Structure and Community-Based Node 
Roles in Network Analysis. In Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Data Mining 
(ICDM’07), 649-654, 2007. 
[29] Z. Shen, K. L. Ma and T. Eliassi-Rad. Visual Analysis of Large Heterogeneous Social Networks by 
Semantic and Structural Abstraction. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 12(6), 
1427-1439, 2006. 
[30] J. Shetty and J. Adibi. Discovering Important Nodes through Graph Entropy: The Case of Enron Email 
Database. In Proceedings of ACM Workshop on Link Discovery (LinkKDD’05), 74-81, 2004. 
[31] L. Singh, M. Beard, L. Getoor and M. B. Blake. Visual Mining of Multi-Modal Social Networks at 
 14
 
4. 研究方法 
Our framework starts from a series of definitions about the relation sequence, relation sequence set, and 
relation sequence matrix as well as the operations on them. These establish the cornerstone of modeling the 
high-order relationship information of a heterogeneous social network. Then, we introduce the relational 
adjacency matrix encoding the directly connected neighbors of each node. By applying the proposed 
operations, it is possible to further construct the k-step relational adjacency matrix to capture the 
indirectly-connected relational paths between any two entities. Eventually, a 3rd order relational adjacency 
tensor is proposed to model the topological and relational information, and based on it we can retrieve the 
signature profile for each node. These signature profiles essentially transform the nodes from the graph form 
to a vector-space representation, which enables us to exploit existing data mining techniques on it. Taking 
advantage of the signature profiles, three heterogeneous centrality measures are proposed to identify central 
nodes, including contribution-based, diversity-based, and similarity-based centrality. We also present a 
role-based entity clustering method using the modeled signature profiles. 
We first model of the node semantics for a heterogeneous network. Our fundamental assumption is that the 
information about a node has already been encoded in the form of a heterogeneous social network, and the 
semantics can be captured and formulated using the surrounding relational structures. We aim at profiling 
each node to a vector-based representation in an unsupervised manner, which automatically extracts relational 
features and measures the dependency as feature values between the node and the corresponding features. The 
storyboard of the proposed semantics modeling for heterogeneous networks is shown in Figure 4.1. We first 
propose relation sequences as the features and define certain data structure together with operations for them. 
Using these definitions, all the relational information in the network will be described in a relational 
adjacency tensor. Finally the vector-based signature profile for each node can be derived from the tensor. 
 
Figure 4.1: Storyboard of semantics modeling. 
 
4.1 Semantic Modeling 
A heterogeneous network is composed of a topological part and a relational part. Each node can be 
 16
(denoted by RSG1+RSG2+...+RSGm) is defined as the group of all elements in every RSGs. That says, 
RSG1+RSG2+...+RSGm= {RS11,…,RS1p,RS21,…,RS2q,RSm1,…,RSkr}. 
Since each element in a RSM is a RSG, and we have defined the multiplication and summation for RSG, the 
multiplication of two RSMs can be defined similar to the multiplication of two numerical matrices. 
Definition 8 (Multiplication of Two Relational Sequence Matrices). Given two relation sequence 
matrices RSMa and RSMb, assume eaij and ebij represents the element (which is an RSG) of the ith row and jth 
column in each matrix respectively. Let RSMab=RSMaRSMb, then eabij, the element of the ith row and the jth 
column of RSMab, can be derived by 



n
x
b
xj
a
ixij
ab eee
1
 
Now we can introduce the one-step and k-step relational adjacency matrix to model the neighbor relational 
structure of each node in the network. 
Definition 9 (One-step Relational Adjacency Matrix). The one-step relational adjacency matrix of a 
given heterogeneous social network H (denoted by ReAM1) is a relation sequence matrix that captures the 
direct adjacency relationship between two nodes. That is, given a social network with n nodes, each element 
in its one-step adjacency matrix is the group of direct labeled relations that connects two corresponding nodes. 
Note that there can be multiple direct connections between two nodes in the network, and a node can also 
connect to itself given there is a self loop. 
For example, the ReAM1 of Figure 4.2(a) is shown in Figure 4.2(b). Note that r-1 here represents the inverse 
edge of r, as the label for the edges is (v1, r-1, v2) such that (v2, r, v1)E. 
Definition 10 (k-step Relational Adjacency Matrix). A k-step relational adjacency matrix of H, denoted 
by ReAMk, is defined as ReAMk-1ReAM1, and can be generated incrementally from the one-step relational 
adjacency matrix. 
For example, the ReAM2 is derived through ReAM1ReAM1. Figure 4.2(c) shows the 2-step relational 
adjacency matrix of 4.2(a) when multiplying 4.2(b) by itself. 
The k-step relational adjacency matrix essentially captures all the k-step relational paths from one node to 
its k-step neighbors in the entire heterogeneous social network. Each element in the matrix represents the 
relational paths that connect two nodes. Each row in the matrix can be regarded as all the k-step outgoing 
paths from one node, and each column stands for all the k-step incoming paths into a node. 
 
 18
 
Figure 4.3: (a) ReAMk can be created progressively from ReAM1. (b) The RATk is composed of the slices 
from ReAM1 to ReAMk in order (c) Each horizontal slice of RATk is used to construct the signature profile of 
the corresponding node. 
4.1.3 Signature Profiles 
With the RAT, we can now introduce the signature profile as the model to capture the semantics of the nodes 
in a heterogeneous social network. Each horizontal slice (we call a signature slice) of RAT is used to represent 
a single node, as illustrated in Figure 4.3(c). A signature profile (denoted as sp) of each node can be 
summarized from the corresponding signature slice. The signature profile of each node v is a vector where 
each element in the vector stands for a relation sequence (or signature) and its value represents the frequency 
of that sequence in the slice. Figure 4.4 displays the deriving of signature profiles of v1 and v3 in Figure 4.2(a). 
First, the signature slices from RAT for v1 and v3 are retrieved, as shown in Figure 4.4(a) and 4.4(b). Then the 
relation sequences inside each slice can be listed and aggregated as the signatures, as shown in Figure 4.4(c). 
Finally, the signature profile for each node can be attained in the vector-based representation from signatures 
and the corresponding count, as shown in Figure 4.4(d). Note that since the number of relation sequence in a 
heterogeneous social network is bounded, the vector size of each entity is also bounded. 
What we essentially do up to this point is to translate the original heterogeneous network into a vector 
representation of nodes. The major advantage of this vector-space modeling is now we are allowed to apply 
many existing data mining algorithms for heterogeneous social network analysis. Also this model is succinct 
and modularized while the operations are trivial to implement. In fact, for certain tools such as MATLAB 
which possess strong capability of matrix computation, one can even directly exploit the signature slice (in 
fact a relational matrix) for further computation without resorting to the vector profile (in which the target 
information is lost during aggregation). In the next section we will show how one can identify central nodes 
and perform role-based clustering based on this model. 
 
k=1:  {<A>}   {<A>} 
k=2:   {2<A,B-1>} {<A,D-1>}  
(a) The slice for v1 of Figure 4.2(a). 
 20
social networks including diversity-based, contribution-based, and similarity-based viewpoints, each of which 
possesses its own physical meaning. 
(1) Contribution-based Centrality 
Based on the idea an individual can be regarded as central if it is significantly involved in various types of 
social events, we propose contribution-based centrality utilizing the signature profile to find the central nodes 
that satisfy such a condition. 
The idea of contribution-based weighting focuses on measuring the extent to which a node contributes to a 
specific signature compared with other nodes in the network. The term contribution in this sense is a relative 
and global concept. The equations below formulize how the contribution-based centrality of a node x, Ccont(x), 
can be computed using the signature profile, 



n
y
i
i
i
signatureyFreq
signaturexFreqsignaturexoncontributi
1
),(
),(),(  



||
1
),()(
signature
i
icont signaturexoncontributixC  
where Freq(x, signaturei) is the frequency of a signaturei occuring in x’s signature profile, and |signature| is 
the number of total signatures of all nodes. High contribution value indicates this node plays a significant role 
with respect to the event represented by this signature while a low contribution indicates it is not too involved 
in the corresponding behavior. 
In other words, we sum up the probabilities each signature occurs in x’s signature profile as its centrality 
score. The intuition behind this idea is that each signature can be treated as a unique kind of interaction of an 
individual with others, and since the contribution implies how significantly a node participates in a particular 
behavior, an individual significantly contributing to various signatures can be regarded as the one that has 
strong and diverse connections with the world. The contribution-based centrality to some extent can be 
regarded as the heterogeneous version of the degree centrality for homogeneous social network. The main 
difference is the former only counts the number of one-step direct “links” while the latter considers not only 
the topological information (i.e., the neighborhood of a node) but also the semantics of the relations. 
(2) Diversity-based Centrality 
An individual can be regarded as a center piece in a society if it has connections to different kinds of groups 
or is involved in a diverse range of events. Similar to the idea of the “the strength of the weak tie” [11] which 
argues the few interconnected links between clusters could be the key to the compactness of a society, in 
diversity-based centrality view we believe the nodes involved in more kinds of events are central. 
Here we argue the central nodes in a heterogeneous social network should be those involved in many 
 22
 
4.3 Role-based Clustering 
Using the signature profiles, nodes in a heterogeneous social network can be clustered based on the roles they 
play in the network. That is, we think the clustering should consider the kinds of interactions a node has with 
others and nodes having similar interaction patterns with others should be grouped together, regardless of how 
far they are away from one another in the social network. 
Unlike the community detection methods which utilize structural information such as edge betweenness, 
geodesic distance, modularity, and etc., we propose a distance matrix among nodes using the signature 
profiles which uniquely take the higher-order relational information of edges into account. That is, the 
distance matrix is not determined by the distance between nodes in the social network, but the distance 
between their signature profiles. Then we can apply various distance-based clustering algorithms (e.g., 
K-Means, hierarchical clustering) to the distance matrix for different purposes. Note that another advantage of 
our role-based clustering method over the community-based clustering algorithm is that the node types can 
also be taken into account since it is possible to consider only the distance matrix containing the same type of 
nodes. Therefore nodes of different types (e.g., movie and person) will not be grouped together. 
 
5. 結果與討論（含結論與建議） 
Evaluation is generally a challenging issue for SNA. Centrality and clustering naturally do not possess a 
unique and authoritative answer (therefore people have proposed different kinds of algorithms to tackle things 
from different aspects). Nevertheless, we argue that having no gold standard in nature should not become an 
original sin that hinders the progress of an area. Therefore we design several diverse experiments for our 
model and tasks using both artificial and natural dataset, and hopefully the evaluations from different angles 
can provide a more general explanation about what kind of outputs the proposed algorithms can produce as 
well as their value. 
The focus of our first evaluation, following a similar strategy as other centrality algorithms [14][17][43], is 
mainly about demonstrating what kind of results can be obtained from the three proposed centrality methods 
as well as their meaning and uniqueness of them compared with the results acquired from other methods.  
The second experiment we conducted is to perform a role-based clustering on a movie dataset. This evaluation 
is not aiming to prove the correctness of the results (again, there is no apparent gold standard for roles in a 
heterogeneous network), instead it is designed to demonstrate the difference between our role-based clustering 
and the conventional community detection as well as provide intuitive insight to show the validity of our 
outputs. We plan to perform experiments on top of a natural movie dataset acquired from the UCI KDD 
Movie repository [13]. 
 24
3 
Humphrey 
Bogart 
Robert 
Goulet 
Humphrey 
Bogart 
Ernst 
Lubitsch 
Ian 
McKellen 
Julia 
Roberts 
4 
Henry 
Fonda 
Frances 
Fisher 
Henry 
Fonda 
Cecil B. 
DeMille 
Spencer 
Tracy 
Elia 
Kazan 
5 
Buster 
Keaton 
Jennifer 
O’Neill 
Burt 
Lancaster 
Jean 
Renoir 
Jean-Luc 
Godard 
Judy 
Garland 
6 
Burt 
Lancaster 
Wilford 
Brimley 
Buster 
Keaton 
John Wayne
Yves 
Montand 
Anthony 
Quinn 
7 
James 
Stewart 
Martin 
Scorsese 
James 
Stewart 
Elia Kazan 
Maggie 
Smith 
Buster 
Keaton 
8 
Gray 
Cooper 
Derek Farr Cary Grant
Anthony 
Quinn 
Paul Papa 
Jean 
Renoir 
9 Cary Grant 
Cecil B. 
DeMille 
Gray 
Cooper 
Sean 
Connery 
Jeanette 
Macdonald 
Robert 
Benchley
10 
Vincent 
Price 
Steven 
Spielberg 
Vincent 
Price 
Buster 
Keaton 
Harry Ritz 
Robert 
Duvall 
 
Our preliminary experiment on this real-world movie dataset shows that using higher-order relational 
information, our centrality theories can identify meaningful central individuals that can hardly be found by the 
exiting homogeneous centrality measures. 
In addition, to realize and compare the three heterogeneous centralities, we also show the distributions of 
their centrality scores with respect to top-1000 ranked lists, as given in Figure 5.1. All the centrality scores are 
normalized to [0, 1], where the normalized scores of rank-1 equals to 1.0. We can find that the diversity-based 
centrality has similar trend of distribution as the contribution-based one. It is because both are directly 
computed from their signature profiles. Besides, the contribution-based centrality is stricter than the 
diversity-based one since it further considers the relative importance of each signature. Hence, the trend of the 
contribution-based one drops a bit faster than the diversity-based one. Moreover, the similarity-based 
centrality exhibits more significant distinguish ability and indicate that only few individuals in a 
heterogeneous network can attract those with similar behaviors in their neighborhood. For all the three 
proposed centralities, we can obtain some significantly central individuals if the top-50 ones are returned. 
 26
 
Figure 5.2: The resulted graph of our role-based clustering. 
Based on Figure 5.2, we can observe the members in each role-cluster are scattered among different 
communities. It makes sense since actors in distinct groups could perform similar roles. We can further 
observe that role “B” dominates a large portion of the network. Most of the relation sequences of role-B actors 
represent common behaviors for movie actors (e.g., such an actor played in a movie which has a certain 
director). These actors of role-B are generally regarded as full-time actors and seldom play other roles such as 
director, producer, or writer in their career. On the other hand, we can see the behaviors of those actors with 
role “A” and “D” differ from “B” to some extent. One special signature for actors of role “A” is they once 
played in some movie which was remade into other movies later. (e.g., Carrie Fisher and others performed in 
the movie “When Harry Met Sally”, which was later remade into another movie “If Lucy Fell”). The actors of 
role “D” all cooperated with certain visual directors in a movie. The actors in role “C” (e.g., Randy Quaid) 
have some sibling(s) who also work in the movie industry (note that only movie-related persons are listed in 
this dataset).  Role “E” includes people who married to another movie person, such as Dennis Quaid and 
Meg Ryan as well as Tom Hanks and Rita Wilson. Finally, classes “F”, “G”, and “H” represent people who 
play multiple roles such as actor-and-writer, actor-and-director, or actor-and-producer in this network. Based 
on k-means clustering, there happens to be only single instance that satisfies certain criteria in this network. 
Therefore, they become single-element clusters (or outliers). Note that it is also possible to apply different 
kinds of clustering algorithms such as hierarchical clustering methods to generate different kinds of clustering 
results. 
 
 28
information about the graph topology and relational semantics is modeled through an unsupervised, automatic, 
and robust mechanism. A tensor-based model with operations about relation sequences is proposed to catch 
the direct and indirect information for nodes. Based on the devised model, three brand-new centrality 
measures for heterogeneous social networks are proposed. We also propose a role-based clustering schema to 
group nodes based on their relational semantics. The experimental outcomes on a real-world dataset not only 
demonstrate the usability of our framework but also show our tool can assist human analyst in making more 
accurate, efficient, and confident decisions. 
There are two future directions. (1) From Individual to Group. For the heterogeneous centralities, so far 
we have defined centralities at individual levels. For some real-world marketing or formation of expert teams, 
we think the group-centric importance measures can be significantly beneficial. Therefore, in the future we 
would like to extend our modeling to consider the neighborhoods of a set of nodes at the same time to find the 
potential influential individuals according users’ demands. On the other hand, the current abstraction is 
egocentric. For some situations, it is necessary to see the relational summarization among multiple people. 
Thus, we can further extend the abstraction to a set of given nodes to produce center-piece subgraphs as the 
abstracted results from diverse viewpoints. (2) From Static to Dynamic. One important future plan is to 
extend the model of the relational adjacency tensor (RAT) to the time-evolved domain by adding the 4th order 
(as time) so it is possible to pursue mining in dynamic heterogeneous social networks. For example, the 
evolution of individual’s behavioral pattern can be formulated by time-based signature profiles. 
 
6. Self-Evaluation 
Overall speaking, we believe this project has realized what have been proposed to find central individuals and 
group entities with similar position in a heterogeneous social network. An unsupervised method which 
transforms the relational graph structure into feature space allows us to further employ existing algorithms of 
is developed and demonstrated to be useful in real-world movie network. Detailed description of the 
achievement is described as below. 
Publications: 
1. Cheng-Te Li, Tsung-Ting Kuo, Chien-Tung Ho, San-Chuan Hong, Wei-Shih Lin, and Shou-De Lin. 
Modeling and Evaluating Information Propagation in a Microblogging Social Network. Social Network 
Analysis and Mining Journal (SNAM), 2012. 
2. Cheng-Te Li and Shou-De Lin. Centrality Analysis, Role-based Clustering, and Egocentric Abstraction for 
Heterogeneous Social Networks. IEEE International Conference on Social Computing (SocialCom'12), 
2012. 
3. Yi-Chen Lo, Cheng-Te Li, and Shou-De Lin. Parallelizing Preferential Attachment Models for Generating 
 30
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
▓達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：▓已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ▓無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ▓無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
   PAKDD 2013, SDM 2013 Conference Tutorials 
ASONAM 2012 Best Full Paper Award 
ACM KDD Cup 2012, 2011, 2010 Champions 
 
附件二
 32
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表 
日期：   年  月  日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱： 
計畫主持人：         
計畫編號：             領域： 
研發成果名稱 
（中文） 
（英文） 
成果歸屬機構  發明人 (創作人) 
 
技術說明 
（中文） 
 
 
 
（200-500 字） 
（英文） 
產業別 
 
技術/產品應用範圍 
 
附件三
 34
一、參加會議經過 
二、與會心得 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
四、建議 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
六、其他 
 
 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下赴國外(或大陸地區)出差或研習心得報告 
                                     日期：   年   月   日 
一、國外(大陸)研究過程 
二、研究成果 
計畫編號 NSC  －    －  －    －    － 
計畫名稱  
出國人員
姓名  
服務機構
及職稱 
 
出國時間  年 月 日至  年 月 日 出國地點 
 
附件五
 36
一、國際合作研究過程 
二、研究成果 
三、建議 
四、其他 
 
 
 
According  to  Dr.  Chiang,  the  street  and  building  information 
can first be extracted and the corresponding latitude/longitude 
can be  identified using  their  techniques. Then we  can exploit 
those  geo‐spatial  information  as  features  to  improve  the 
learning  quality  of  our  model.  This  enhancement  seems 
reasonable and we will establish further collaboration with Dr. 
Chiang to realize such idea. 
 
Shou‐de Lin 
Associate Professor, CSIE department 
National Taiwan University 
99年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：林守德 計畫編號：99-2221-E-002-159-MY2 
計畫名稱：異質社群網路之節點中心性與角色之分析 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 2 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 6 10 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 100%  
博士生 2 2 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
