products, particularly for products having high cost and 
versatile uses, such as machine tools. In a typical machine tool 
company, orders may come from users having distinct 
purposes or working environments. Products with flexible 
configuration capabilities will be more preferable in the market 
than hard standard models. Therefore, customizations with 
acceptable variations are quite usual in the industry; 
meanwhile, the design variations pile up, not to mention the 
memory loading of the shop workers. 
Although most CAX has successfully provided essential 
technical solutions, the subtle variations in the operations are 
prone to forgetfulness and mistake for the inexperienced. The 
issue is especially critical when senior engineers have already 
been overloaded or not instantly available, or when too much 
detail are required in a not-frequently-operate task. The 
productions may come to a halt that cost enormous. 
On the other hand, job dispatching has always been a 
crucial issue in mix-model productions. Timely and immediate 
on-job trainings can help create specialists that incrementally 
and gradually relieve the pressure by providing dispatch 
flexibility [9, 11, 12]. 
Indeed, getting instruction from an experienced expertise is 
much faster than flipping the technical documentations, and 
solving vagueness is much easier from the interactive human 
knowledge. With competent technical documentations, design 
data can be well kept and the production knowledge can be 
effectively retained. Also, with the assists of an electronic 
interactive learning unit, the loads of educating the newcomers 
and the instructions for realtime demands may be relieved for 
the senior engineers [6, 7, 11, 13]. Therefore, the role of 
instructor or advisor should be replaced by a tank of knowledge 
with a fast and intelligent retrieval interface plus an explicit and 
intuitive electronic presentation media [8, 14~17]. 
III. OBJECTIVE 
As the control of the individual production activities goes 
electronic becomes common, the corresponding manufacturing 
resources can be systematically planned throughout the 
lifecycles and among the products to optimize the time-to-
market value for each product. Therefore, in product lifecycle 
management, connections among the activities must be 
properly defined and routed, so that the potential waiting lost is 
minimized and the overall process connectivity and 
smoothness is ensured. This requirement is especially 
important for the industries that relied heavily on manual 
operations, because timely technical instructions will become 
the key factor of leading among the market competitions. 
During the steps of production, human operators will be 
informed to interact with the dynamic controlled issues that 
determine the quality of the production itself and the 
performance of the system facilities. Therefore, certain issues 
may require a proficient, intuitive, and instant response to 
avoid losses of any kind. In the past, roles of such importance 
were usually carried out by senior engineers or shop managers 
who are keen to the causes and effects of the issues. Thus, the 
effectiveness and efficiency of the production will rely on their 
field experiences based on the comprehension of 
manufacturing techniques and prior knowledge. 
Finding solutions for the problem can be started from five 
different aspects: documentation, education, implementation, 
presentation, and creation, which are the top five contributions 
of a human expertise in a technical profession workplace. 
Specifically stating, they are the documentation of field 
knowledge, the education to the inexperienced, the 
implementation with adaptability, the presentation to the work 
force, and the creation of the above four. Each aspect will need 
at least one expert to provide unambiguous data and precise 
linkages together for the work forces to generate maximum 
interest for the industry. 
Therefore, using an electronic 3D technical documentation 
system to provide ubiquitous service can be a total solution. 
The Dah Lih Machinery Company has decided to adopt such 
electronic system to support the documentation in its Product 
Lifecycle Management (PLM), with special focus on the 
creation and display of the 3D technical documentations using 
a systematic paradigm, so that the CAD files are properly 
shared and reused, the processes of the production operations 
are visualized 3D content, the technical data are electronically 
kept and manipulated, and the management of the product 
lifecycle is efficiently organized. In the implementation, the 
technical data of producing a CNC machining center will be 
selectively revealed along the development of the 
methodology. At the same time, an infrastructure of the web 
system and an electronic viewing system is constructed to 
accommodate the documentations. 
IV. METHODOLOGY 
The proposed paradigm will decompose a product lifecycle 
into a connected flow of activities and subdivides the functions 
of e-manufacturing into sixteen electronically activated tasks, 
then matches the activities with the tasks according to the 
industry’s requirements and capabilities. For each matched 
pair, electronic documentations are created based on the 3D 
design models, the nature of the activities and the 3D 
presentation techniques available. The documentation 
paradigm is, therefore, responsible for and capable of 
generating the coherent instructional supplies of every stage in 
a product lifecycle. The four major steps of the method are 
described as follows. 
A.  Analysis of a Product Lifecycle 
A product’s lifecycle can be perceived as four phases: 
conceive, design, realize, and service. The function of each 
phase is accomplished by some related stages of activities, and 
certain activities may also deliver (or receive) supporting 
information to (or from) other activities or phases concurrently 
to complete the total management of a product’s lifecycle. Fig. 
1 is an example of a product’s lifecycle in workflow format. 
Note that the activities within each phase may not be exactly 
the same for the same product by different companies because 
of their organizational and/or cultural differences. Fig. 2 further 
reveals the interrelationships and concurrency for the activities 
of the conceiving stages in flows of actions. 
manufacturing is bisectionally subdivided with four levels into 
sixteen tasks. In each level, the lighter subdivisions represent 
the active actions that should be automatically performed by 
the system according to the status or conditions of the 
production operations, and the shaded subdivisions represent 
the passive actions that are carried out by requests. The sixteen 
tasks are electronically well defined with activating conditions 
or signals, procedure algorithm, processing subroutines, 
supporting database, and output documents, so that they can be 
manipulated automatically by the information system. One or 
more tasks will be compiled electronically to carry out the 
activities from the product lifecycle providing that all the 
requirement information is electronically prepared. 
C. Matching of the Two Systems 
In this stage, a matching process is elaborated to determine 
the task correspondences to the lifecycle activities. The 
matching decisions will be resolved by departmental managers 
of the industry, because the outcomes of the producer activities 
need to fit the requirements of the receiver activities and some 
tasks may not be electronically capable, or ready, for the 
department yet. For the not-ready tasks, activities can still be 
carried out by semiautomatic or manual operations but under 
the supervision of the workflow mechanism. Most importantly, 
the nature of the activity must be fulfilled by the function of 
the tasks either electronically or manually at this stage. 
For the whole scenario is too large for exhibition, Fig. 4 
shows only a glimpse of the matching. A matching mark in the 
Figure represents a correspondence relationship that is 
determined by the further analysis shown in Fig. 5. 
 
Figure 3.  Subdivision of e-Manufacturing 
 
 
Figure 4.  Matching the Activities and the Tasks 
 
Figure 5.  Task Assignments Determined by the Departments 
In Fig. 5, the five stages of activities in the conceive phase 
are expanded to reveal the hierarchical structure of the actions 
needed to be taken care. The correspondences of the actions to 
the tasks are the link symbols marked, and are classified 
according to the four categories: file documentation, 
knowledge expression, method generation, and equipment 
control. The electronic resolutions of the correspondency are 
then planned or assigned based on the requirements of the 
action and the capabilities of each department. 
There are two types of information channels among the 
activities and actions, one is use to transport supporting data, 
e.g. tech instructions, programming files, and statistic database, 
and the other is to transport control signal, e.g. machine status, 
 
 
 Figure 9.  3D Documentation Example in Browser Form 
VI. CONCLUSIONS 
In this research, a paradigm for creating 3D interactive 
documentation has been proposed and implemented on the 
standard operation procedures (SOP) of technical 
documentations for Dah Lih Machinery Company. The 
method integrally manipulates product information with e-
manufacturing and generates 3D based documentations for 
interactive retrievals. 
The electronic documentation system can preserve huge 
amount of technical knowledge in detail and then allow instant 
and interactive retrievals. Such ability will transform a large 
portion of on-job training into electronic form and also make 
the evaluation of worker performance an effortless extension. 
Instructions to the shop workers and to the trainees can be 
accessed on the corporate web anywhere inside the net area, 
hence lower the loading for the senior engineers and shorten 
the total training hours. The simulated 3D images can easily 
present concepts and special effects that regular photos or 
films cannot achieve, and the 3D contents are intuitive to most 
people and are more effective for cognition than by text and 
photo alone or combined. The digital contents are inherently 
easy to re-edit and update for customizations. 
In the implementation, the SOP of producing the 
assemblies and subassemblies of a CNC machining center is 
created along the development of the methodology. A web-
based portal system is also created to access the documentation. 
It is observed that, with the creation of the paradigm, there will 
be no waiting lost for technical advising, no message lost for 
professional support, less restrictions in job dispatching, better 
connections among workflows, and thorough preservation for 
production technology. 
For future extensions, with a further manipulation on the 
structure of the documentation system, the electronic 
documentations can be transformed into ubiquitous regular 
briefings of the daily assignments for each worker, interactive 
reminders that are synchronous to the realtime tasks, or into 
tech manuals for remote repairs or maintenances with the 
combination of a self-diagnosis system. Furthermore, 3D 
documentations are also suitable for on-job education of 
production operations, calibrations, inspections or green 
disposals. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This research was funded by National Science Council of 
Taiwan and Dah Lih Machinery Industry Company 
Ltd.(www.dahlih.com.tw) at Taichung, Taiwan, project 
number NSC 98-2622-E-324-010-CC3. 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] H.H. Chen, H.Y. Kang, X.Q. Xing, H.I. Lee and Y.H. Tong, 
Developing new products with knowledge management methods and 
process development management in a network, Computers in Industry, 
Vol. 59, pp. 242–253, 2008.  
[2] B. Denkena, M. Shpitalni, P. Kowalski, G. Molcho and Y. Zipori, 
Knowledge management in process planning, Annals of the CIRP Vol. 
56/1, pp. 175-180, 2007.  
[3] S.G. Lee, Y.S. Ma, G.L. Thimm, and J. Verstraeten, Product lifecycle 
management in aviation maintenance, repair and overhaul, Computers 
in Industry, Vol. 59, pp. 296–303, 2008. 
[4] A. Sharma, Collaborative product innovation: integrating elements of 
CPI via PLM framework, Computer-Aided Design, Vol. 37, pp. 1425–
1434, 2005. 
[5] M. Alemanni, G. Alessia, S. Tornincasa and E. Vezzetti, Key 
performance indicators for PLM benefits evaluation: The Alcatel Alenia 
Space case study, Computers in Industry, Vol. 59, pp. 833–841, 2008. 
[6] D. Cachapa, A. Colombo, M. Feike, and A. Bepperling, An approach 
for integrating real and virtual production automation devices applying 
the service-oriented architecture paradigm, Emerging Technologies and 
Factory Automation, 2007. ETFA. IEEE Conference. 
[7] Y. I. Chang and C.L. Miller, PLM curriculum development: using an 
industry-sponsored project to teach manufacturing simulation in a 
multidisciplinary environment, Journal of Manufacturing Systems, Vol. 
24, No. 3, 2008. 
[8] S. Rachuri, E. Subrahmanian, A. Bouras, S. J. Fenves, S. Foufou and R. 
D. Sriram, Information sharing and exchange in the context of product 
lifecycle management: Role of standards, Computer-Aided Design, Vol. 
40, pp. 789–800, 2008. 
[9] R. Curran, G. Gomis, S. Castagne, J. Butterfield, T. Edgar, C. Higgins 
and C. McKeever, Integrated digital design for manufacture for reduced 
lifecycle cost, Int. J. Production Economics, Vol. 109, pp. 27-40, 2007. 
[10] N. Iyer, S. Jayanti, K.Y. Lou, Y. Kalyanaraman and K. Ramani, Shape-
based searching for product lifecycle applications, Computer-Aided 
Design, Vol. 37, pp. 1435–1446, 2005. 
[11] G. Schuh, H. Rozenfeld, D. Assmus and E. Zancul, Process oriented 
framework to support PLM implementation, Computers in Industry, 
Vol. 59, pp. 210–218, 2008. 
[12] T.A. Chiang and A.J.C. Trappey, Development of value chain 
collaborative model for product lifecycle management and its LCD 
industry adoption, Int. J. Production Economics, Vol. 109, pp. 90–104, 
2007. 
[13] M. Kakehi, T. Yamada and I. Watanabe, PLM education in production 
design and engineering by e-Learning, International Journal of 
Production Economics, Vol. S0925-5273, pp. 211–214, 2009. 
[14] H. Aziz, J. Gao, P. Maropoulos, and W.M. Cheung, Open standard, 
open source and peer-to-peer tools and methods for collaborative 
product development, Computers in Industry, Vol. 56, pp. 260–
271,2005. 
[15] K.U. Dai, Y.H. Li, J. Han, X.H. Lu and S.S. Zhang, An interactive web 
system for integrated three-dimensional customization, Computers in 
Industry, Vol. 57, No. 57, pp. 827–837, 2006. 
[16] S. Lasserre and F. Ameziane, Dynamic adaptation of user interfaces to 
enhance information management of a building construction project, 
Proceedings of the Computer Graphics, Imaging and Vision: New 
Trends (CGIV’05). 
[17] Z.M. Qiu, K.F. Kok, Y.S. Wong and Y.H. Jerry, Role-based 3D 
visualisation for asynchronous PLM collaboration, Computers in 
Industry, Vol. 58, pp. 747–755, 2007. 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：鄭宗明 計畫編號：98-2622-E-324-010-CC3 
計畫名稱：3D 電子式生產技術展示機構之導入與建構 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100% 大立公司技術報告 
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
The 40 th 
International 
Conference on 
Computers and 
Industrial 
Engineering (CIE 
40 Japan) 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
