nano-composite face sheets and the 
foam core. The face sheet is the mixture 
of the epoxy and SiO2 nano-particles 
(4%wt.). Fabrication of nano-composite 
was carried out in the following five 
steps. In the first step, the epoxy (Shell 
epoxy resin Epikote 828) was mixed 
with 4% wt. 12nm SiO2 nano-particles 
(Degussa Taiwan Ltd. AE200). The 
mixing of the resin and nano-particles 
was carried out mechanically (Fig. 1) at 
80℃ and 800 rpm blending cycles for 4 
hours to disperse the nano-particles in 
the resin.  In the second step, the 
mixing was carried out by using the 
sonicator (Misonix sonicator 3000) 
around 90-120 Walt for 30 minutes (Fig. 
2) to disperse the nano-SiO2 particles in 
the epoxy resin. In the third step, the 
nano-SiO2 epoxy was blended with the 
hardener (D230) at the weight ratio of 
1:0.32 for 15 minutes. The fully blended 
nano composite resin is then adhesively 
attached to the surface of a foam plate 
through a printing technique (Fig. 3). In 
the fourth step, the foam plate coated 
with nano composite resin is vacuumed 
to reduce the bubbles in the resin for 30 
minutes (Fig. 4). In the final step, the 
face layer of the sandwich plate was 
covered by the Teflon sheet to be cured 
under room temperature for 24 hours 
(Fig. 5). 
 
Experimental study and Investigation 
  A number of nano-composite 
sandwich plates were fabricated for 
experimental investigation. The 
dimensions of the nano-composite face 
layer are 20 cm × 20 cm × 0.02 mm. The 
foam core thickness is 0.169 cm. The 
mass densities of the core and face layer 
are 49.1 Kg/m3 and 2400 Kg/m3, 
respectively. The variation of the face 
sheet thickness is too small to be 
negligible. 
The elastic constants identification of 
the nano-composite face sheet is 
performed using the impulse vibration 
testing technique. In this technique, the 
nano-composite sandwich plate hung by 
rubber bands is subjected to the 
impulsive vibration testing as shown in 
Fig. 6. The data acquisition system 
(B&K 3560C and B&K Pulse Labshop 
Version 6.1) is used to process the 
vibration data from which the natural 
frequencies of the sandwich plates are 
extracted. Fig. 7 shows a typical 
frequency response spectrum of the 
square nano-composite sandwich plate. 
A global optimization method is then 
used to determine the elastic constants 
of the sandwich plate using the 
measured natural frequencies of the 
plates. Table 1 lists the experimental and 
theoretical natural frequencies of the 
nano-composite sandwich plate and 
foam plate with free edges. Table 2 lists 
the identified material constants of the 
nano-composite face layer using 
experimental natural frequencies. Table 
3 lists the identified material constants 
of the foam plate and face layer of the 
nano-composite sandwich plate using 
experimental natural frequencies. 
 2
