 1
Summary. This study investigated whether three posture transfer strategies, No support (NS), 
Chair-arm used (CA), and Cane used (CU), affected the smallest hip compressed angle and the 
smallest ankle compressed angle during sit-to-stand and stand-to-sit maneuvers. Twelve selected 
elders (M = 81.3, SD = 5.9) volunteered to participate. Using an optoelectronic movement 
analyzer, the smallest compressed angle of the hip and ankle were measured during standing up 
and sitting down. The adopted strategies had significant effects on the smallest hip compressed 
angle; however, they did not significantly affect the smallest ankle compressed angle. Although 
the CU strategy led to a larger trunk angular displacement than did the CA strategy, a cane can 
offer help during the whole transfer process. It has been shown that the use of chair arms or a 
cane can help elders to reduce trunk angular displacement and offer some degree of support in 
posture transfer during sit-to-stand and stand-to-sit. We suggest that these two strategies may be 
seen as adaptive mechanisms to decrease the risk of anterior disequilibrium. 
 
Key words: Aging, Activities of daily living, Motion analysis, Movement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3
whether three posture transfer strategies, No support (NS), Chair-arm use (CA), and Cane use 
(CU), affected the angle between the trunk and thigh and the angle between the shank and foot 
during sit-to-stand and stand-to-sit maneuvers. 
 
Methods 
Subjects 
Subjects were selected from 102 elderly adults residing at the Taipei Shilin Senior Center. 
The selection criteria were: (1) aged over 65 years old; (2) no acute medical illness in the past 
three months, such as coronary heart disease, heart failure, or pulmonary infection; (3) ability to 
stand up from a chair without help; (4) no orthopaedic diagnosis; and (5) no muscular disease. 
The first step in selecting subjects involved examining the health records of the senior centre 
residents, keeping in mind the inclusion and exclusion criteria. The 36 residents who were 
reached for interview and who volunteered were tested with the Berg Balance Scale (BBS; Berg, 
Wood-Dauphinee, Williams, & Gayton, 1989) to assess the risk of falling. Other standard 
geriatric assessment instruments including the Barthel Index (BI) (Mahoney & Barthel, 1965), 
instrumental activities of daily living scale (IADL) (Lawton & Brody 1969), and Mini-Mental 
Status Exam (MMSE) (Folstein, Folstein, & McHugh, 1975), were also administered by three 
physical therapists to evaluate the subjects’ physical and mental status. 
A standardized balance test was performed according to the BBS, which was designed by 
Berg to evaluate the ability of community-dwelling elderly people in functional standing balance, 
to ensure that the subjects could complete the trials. The Berg Balance Scale maximum score is 
56; a higher score reflects better balance, and a score lower than 41 means that the person could 
not move without assistance. In this study, all subjects were required to have BBS scores over 41 
to ensure they would be able to complete the trials without undue risk of falling. 
The BI is based on a rating scale that was completed by an observer to assess basic activities, 
such as feeding, moving, grooming, transferring to and from a toilet, bathing, walking on a level 
surface, going up and down stairs, dressing, and continence of bowels and bladder; it can also be 
used to determine a baseline level of functioning and to monitor changes in activities of daily 
living over time. The maximum score on the BI is 100; higher scores indicate greater 
independence. 
The MMSE is a screening tool including 11 questions in six sections (orientation, 
registration, attention and calculation, recall, language, and copying), each representing a 
different cognitive domain or function. It can be used to systematically and thoroughly assess 
mental status. The maximum score is 30; a score of 17 or lower indicates severe impairment. To 
ensure they understood the instructions in the trials, all subjects were required to have MMSE 
scores above 17. 
The IADL scale is an instrument to assess independent living skills and has been 
demonstrated to yield reliable data in screening for dementia in community-dwelling elderly 
people (Barberger-Gateau, Commenges, & Gagnon, 1992). The IADL scale augments the 
activities of daily living with more complex tasks important for independent living in the 
community, such as the ability to use a telephone, to shop, and to prepare food. The total score 
ranges from 0 (low function, dependent) to 8 (high function, independent). 
Twelve subjects (5 males, 7 females), ranging in age from 72 to 91 years (M = 81.3, 
SD = 5.9) were enrolled after they provided written informed consent. Their mean height was 
154.6 cm (SD = 8.7), mean weight was 56.2 kg (SD = 11.4), and mean body mass index (BMI) 
 5
position while their feet were placed level on the floor, 10 cm apart at the heels, with the shanks 
positioned at a 10-degree angle relative to the vertical. 
In the NS strategy test, subjects were instructed to stand up and sit down with their arms 
folded across their chest. In the CA strategy test, subjects’ forearms, presented at 90° to the upper 
arm drooped naturally, were set on the armrests at the beginning of standing up and at the end of 
sitting down, with their palm pressing against the armrests for assistance during the posture 
transfer. In the CU strategy test, whether standing or sitting, both of the subjects’ hands were 
used to hold the top of a cane, and its tip was set between the feet on the floor. 
The three strategy tests were ordered randomly. From the initial sitting posture, subjects 
were asked to rise from the chair to an upright standing position. After maintaining this posture 
for 15 s, they were asked to sit down, and lean back on the back support. This sequence was 
performed three times. For each strategy test, each subject thus executed a total of six movements: 
three sit-to-stand transfers and three stand-to-sit transfers, all conducted as quickly as possible. 
Before each strategy test, subjects were asked to practice the sequence twice. During all trials, a 
registered nurse was present for safety. 
 
Outcome measures 
By the Motion Capture System, all movements in the sit-to-stand maneuver, from minor 
movements while seated to standing without swaying, and in the stand-to-sit maneuver, from 
small movements while standing to sitting stably, with the three different strategies were recorded. 
Using the QTM software, the five markers were linked to construct a model with four body 
segments: the trunk, thigh, shank, and foot. The main dependent variables were defined as the 
values of the smallest hip compressed angle and the smallest ankle compressed angle collected 
during the NS, CA, and CU strategies. These variables were measured under two conditions: 
sit-to-stand and stand-to-sit transfers. The smallest hip compressed angle and the smallest ankle 
compressed angle were calculated by the angle from the trunk to the extremely compressed thigh 
and by the angle from the shank to the extremely compressed foot, respectively. 
 
Data analysis 
Data were analyzed using SPSS-PC (version 10.0). One-way ANOVA, with a randomized 
complete block design, was used to test the effect of each strategy on the smallest compressed 
angles of the hip and ankle. The main factor was strategy, which had three levels, NS, CA, and 
CU. The block factor was the subject. If the ANOVA showed a significant result, the least 
significant difference (LSD) method was used to conduct a post-hoc test. 
 
RESULTS 
Baseline Characteristics of Subjects 
The mean Berg Balance Scale score of 54.2 (SD = 1.7) demonstrated that all the subjects had 
the ability to maintain balance and were able to stand up and to sit down safely and independently. 
The average BI score of the subjects was 92.1 (SD = 3.96). The mean score for the subjects in this 
study reflects independent and safe status for older adults, aged about 81 years. The results in the 
cognition assessment demonstrated that the subjects had the ability to communicate and interact 
in a meaningful way; they had a mean MMSE score of 25.3 (SD = 5.4). With IADL scale scores 
ranging from 0 to 8, the subjects had a mean IADL score of 5.3 (SD = 1.8); consistent with this, 
 7
DISCUSSION  
The present study involved both sit-to-stand and stand-to-sit movements in elders without 
known impairments or functional disorders in three posture transfer strategies. Our results 
represent, to our knowledge, the first report demonstrating the effect of posture transfer strategy 
on the hip and ankle angle for sit-to-stand and stand-to-sit movements. 
Health status in older adults can differ considerably because of the effects of physiologic 
decline and of chronic diseases. In this research, 12 largely healthy older adults who were 
homogenous and without known impairments or functional disorders were tested. Although the 
subjects had lower scores of BI, IADL, MMSE, and Berg Balance Scale than ideally healthy 
people, they were still physically active and maintained simple social lives. 
In clinical observation, some subjects showed the phenomenon of sitback failure. During the 
standing up processes, these subjects could not stand successfully at once. In some trials, they had 
to pull themselves up two or more times to reach a standing position. When sitting down, they 
lost their balance before the phase of seat contact. This rapid descent to the seat from a standing 
position is comparable to a backward fall (Dubost, et al., 2005). Although these two movements 
seldom result in severe injuries, it may induce a repeated misperception of voluntary movement 
and could lead to deterioration in balance function. However, this sitback failure phenomenon 
only occurred with the NS strategy, not the CA or CU strategies. 
We did not observe a difference among the three strategies with regard to the smallest ankle 
compressed angle during rising from a chair or sitting down a chair. In contrast, the three posture 
transfer strategies significantly affected the smallest hip compressed angle. Hip displacement 
serves a different function in standing up and sitting down. At the beginning of the sit-to-stand 
movement, forward trunk rotation generates horizontal momentum of the CoM (Pai & Lee, 1994) 
and creates disequilibrium (Dubost, et al., 2005). Specifically, trunk flexion becomes greater and 
work volume increases as the burden on lower limbs increases during the sit-to-stand movement 
(Yamada ＆ Demura, 2007). This means that the subject can get more floor reaction force to 
help in elevating the body. During the stand-to-sit movement, the forward trunk rotation 
contributes to stability control along the anteroposterior axis (Mourey, et al., 1998). Dubost et al. 
(2005) demonstrated that older adults tended to minimize forward body displacement during 
sitting down, which can be seen as an adaptive mechanism to decrease the risk of anterior 
disequilibrium. In this study, trunk flexion when using the CA and CU strategies were smaller 
than when using the NS strategy. Thus, subjects could ease the burden on their lower limbs and 
get more reacting force by using both hands. It also shows that the degree of body curvature was 
smaller when using a CA or CU strategy than when using the NS strategy. That is, by using 
assisting devices, elders do not have to over-bend their body to stand up or to sit down, and 
over-straining the muscles of the lower back can be avoided. 
A cane can provide support and assistance during the whole process. In most studies on 
posture transfer, the subjects are asked to fold their hands on their chest, to decrease any effect of 
hand use. Clinical observations showed that this strategy would raise the CoM of the body and 
lower the sense of equilibrium. In both sit-to-stand and stand-to-sit, the NS strategy has a certain 
fall risk during posture transfer processes. In the CA strategy, in the earlier phase of standing, the 
hands share the load with the lower limbs and provide extra balance in rising. Nevertheless, there 
are no aids in the later phases, such as the stabilization phase and the quiet standing phase in 
standing up, and the earlier phases, such as the quiet standing phase, the initiation phase, and the 
descending phase, in sitting down. Although the hip angle displacement when using the CU 
 9
12, 189-198.  
JANSSEN, W. M. G., & BUSSMANN, H. B. J. (2002) Determinants of the sit-to-stand movement: a 
review. Physical Therapy, 82, 866-879.  
KRALJ, A., JAEGER, R. J, & MUNIH, M. (1990) Analysis of standing up and sitting down in humans: 
definitions and normative data presentation. Journal of biomechanics, 23, 1123-1138. 
LAWTON, M. P., & BRODY, E. M. (1969) Assessment of older people: Self-maintaining and 
instrumental activities of daily living. Gerontologist, 9, 179-186. 
LEHTOLA, S., KOISTINEN, P., & LUUKINEN, H. (2006) Falls and injurious falls late in 
home-dwelling life. Archives of Gerontology and Geriatrics, 42, 217-224. 
LINDEMANN, U., MUCHE, R., STUBER, M., ZIJLSTRA, W., HAUER, K., & BECKER, C. (2007) 
Coordination of strength exertion during the chair-rise movement in very old people. The 
Journals of Gerontology Series A: Biological Sciences and Medical Sciences, 62, 636-640. 
LOMAGLIO, M. J., & ENG, J. J. (2005) Muscle strength and weight-bearing symmetry relate to 
sit-to-stand performance in individuals with stroke. Gait & Posture, 22, 126-131. 
MAHONEY, F. I., & BARTHEL, D. (1965) Functional Evaluation: the Barthel Index. Maryland State 
Medical Journal, 14, 56-61. 
MANCKOUNDIA, P., MOUREY, F., PFITZENMEYER, P., & PAPAXANTHIS, C. (2006) Comparison of 
motor strategies in sit-to-stand and back-to-sit motions between healthy and alzheimer’s 
disease elderly subjects. Neuroscience, 137, 385-392. 
MOUREY, F., POZZO, T., ROUHIER-MARCER, I., & DIDIER, J. P. (1998) A kinematic comparison 
between elderly and young subjects standing up from and sitting down in a chair. Age and 
Ageing, 27, 137-146.  
OKUNO, M., WYSS, U. P., COSTIGAN, P. A., DELUZIO, K. J., & CHEW, R. (1995) Knee joint forces 
during contra-lateral cane-assisted gait. International Society of Biomechanics, 15, 694-695. 
O’MEARA, D. M., & SMITH, R. M. (2006) The effects of unilateral grab rail assistance on the 
sit-to-stand performance of older aged adults. Human Movement Science, 25, 257-274. 
PAI, Y. C., & LEE, W. A. (1994) Effect of a terminal constraint on control of balance during 
sit-to-stand. Journal of motor behavior, 26, 247-256 
RILEY, P. O., SCHENKMAN, M. L., MANN, R. W., & HODGE, W. A. (1991) Mechanics of a 
constrained chair rise. Journal of biomechanics, 24, 77-85. 
SCHULTZ, A. B., ALEXANDER, N. B., & ASHTON-MILLER, J. A. (1992) Biomechanical analyses of 
rising from a chair. Journal of biomechanics, 25, 1383-1391. 
YAMADA, T., ＆ DEMURA, S. (2007) Height of chair seat and movement characteristics in 
sit-to-stand by young and elderly adults. Perceptual and Motor Skills, 101, 695-709. 
 
 
計畫成果自評 
本研究內容與原計畫相符程度已達 96%，並能達成預期目標。研究成果亦已撰寫為
期刊論文投稿至國際學術期刊審查中。 
 
