2content aggregation, content categorization, content catalog, content filtering, and content
stocking. The following chart shows the relationships between these steps. When
resource limitation occurs at any one of these steps, content delivery speed and/or
reliability would be negatively impacted. Priority management mechanism will be
required at that time in order to provide differential treatments to different content
streams to meet customer needs.
In the study, the author investigated the functions of each of these major steps and
identified possible priority management technique corresponding to the functions.
He discovered that the major functions and the possible corresponding priority
management technique are as follows:
1 Content Submission–In this step, new contents are submitted by the content
provider to the content delivery network for delivery through a content submission
portal, and existing content can be updated through the same portal. Resource
limitation would occur when there is not enough memory space to accept new
contents. In this case, the author recommended that higher priority should be given
to updates of existing contents instead of accepting new contents. This is because (i)
updating existing contents generally require less resource than accepting new
contents, and (ii) an existing content normally has more viewers than new contents.
Subscriber
Terminal
Devices
Content Delivery Platform
Content
Filtering
Content
Stocking
Digital
Rights
Management
Campaign
Management
Delivery
Management
Fulfillment
Management
Content
Management
Content
Submission
Content
Aggregation
Catalog
Management
Category
Management
Terminal
Device
Management
Content
Providers
Java
Ring tones
Wallpaper
Video
Others
Content Delivery Key Steps
4management scheme at this step, either content based or terminal device based.
Priority queuing with variable length queues (corresponding to different content
terminal devices) would be a good technique for this key step.
6 Content Filtering–In this step, contents are filtered dynamically to suit the end
customer’s terminal device characteristics before the contents can be viewed and
accessed by the terminal device through WML or HTML browsers. Based on the
content filtering results, a customer is allowed or denied access to specific contents.
The chance of encountering resource limitation at this step is quite low. If needed,
priority can be given (for example, using priority queuing technique) to those
contents that charge high premiums.
7 Content Stocking–Any content, even after published in a catalog, is not available
to its subscribers until the content delivery network stocks it, either manually by a
content service administrator or automatically. After the stocking, the content would
then be made available for access by subscribers. In this step, contents are stocked.
To avoid consuming too much network resources, it is recommended that the
stocking should not be done one content at a time, especially not during peak traffic
hours. Instead, all the contents that need to be stocked should be pre-processed
offline, store as a large batch file, then to be stocked all at once during non-peak
traffic hours. This method will ensure that valuable resources would be used to
support actual content delivery efforts to generate more revenue, and not be used to
support content stocking work which can well be done offline (at least partially) and
during non-peak hours.
3. Conclusion
It is clear that no matter how the content network is designed, content delivery must go
through the key steps mentioned above in order to complete the delivery process. During
the process, it’s always possible that contents encounter delay (or even blocking) at one 
of the steps due to insufficient resource. In this study, the author analyzed the major
functions of each step and assigned them into several categories depending on their
likelihood of encountering resource limitation. Priority management techniques (such as
priority queuing with variable length queues, resource reservation, offline pre-processing
and others) are then recommend for them to reduce the chance of resource limitation
and/or to minimize its impacts.
The results of this study, in the form of recommendations for content delivery priority
management techniques for the key steps in the delivery process, should be useful to both
Taiwan’s wireless service providers and wireless software vendors. Since content 
delivery is a relatively new topic in Taiwan, both service providers and software vendors
don’t have much knowledge and experience to identify what needs to be doneand how to
accomplish them to make content services more attractive. Therefore, this study provides
an excellent, though preliminary, technological and marketing roadmap for them, and
hence directly benefits the wireless network community in Taiwan. In the future, if more
in-depth studies are performed, more concrete technical recommendations can be
