the behavior of a river channel in response to specific alterations. As 
a result, understanding of physical and ecological process and river 
history as a basis for restoration strategy needs to be emphasized, 
each restoration project can best be viewed as an experiment, from 
which considerable knowledge can be obtained to inform future 
projects, provided the current project is objectively documented and 
evaluated for scientific rigor, and the results of the evaluation 
widely disseminated. As mentioned above, the objectives of this 
study are compiling a database of restoration projects undertaken in 
Taiwan, conducting follow-up interviews and surveys with 
implementers of selected projects, and taking the analysis a step 
further with detailed PPAs of completed restoration projects to 
obtain the useful knowledge for future projects. 
 
II 
二、計畫英文摘要 
The restoration of rivers and streams has attracted increased interest and funding 
in recent years, as a result of legal requirements to mitigate damage to important 
habitats and as a positive avenue through which citizens can take steps to improve 
their environment. As more and more we seek to restore rivers, we need to 
acknowledge that it does not always work, frequently because humility is lost and we 
impose our ideal forms on the river, without taking the time to learn the river's history, 
to measure the processes, to understand what has been irretrievably lost to progress, to 
see with vision what processes can be restored. When we try to fix the river, we can 
treat each intervention as an opportunity to learn about the river, so next time perhaps 
we can do better. Restoration involves the intelligent and integrated application of 
knowledge and techniques from different fields, such as ecology, hydrology, and 
geomorphology. Given the inherent complexity of river processes, channel form, and 
aquatic and riparian ecology, it is simply not possible at our present level of 
knowledge to predict with certainty the behavior of a river channel in response to 
specific alterations. As a result, understanding of physical and ecological process and 
river history as a basis for restoration strategy needs to be emphasized, each 
restoration project can best be viewed as an experiment, from which considerable 
knowledge can be obtained to inform future projects, provided the current project is 
objectively documented and evaluated for scientific rigor, and the results of the 
evaluation widely disseminated. As mentioned above, the objectives of this study are 
compiling a database of restoration projects undertaken in Taiwan, conducting 
follow-up interviews and surveys with implementers of selected projects, and taking 
the analysis a step further with detailed PPAs of completed restoration projects to 
obtain the useful knowledge for future projects. 
Keywords: River restoration, Monitoring and Evaluation, PPAs, Adaptive 
Management 
 
2 
Appraisals, PPA)從中進行分析、歸納、系統整合與評估，並且輔以現場補充調查，
嘗詴找出台灣環境下成功案例達成復育目標的關鍵因素與未盡完善案例的失敗
原因，以過去的經驗來提昇未來復育計畫的成功率，作為台灣河川環境改善復育
工作趨於成熟的有效輔助。 
(三)研究方法 
本研究之研究流程如圖一所示，將針對已建置之台灣河川復育整合資料庫進
行分析，及應用PPAs深入選擇案例做訪談、現勘與評估，並輔以補充調查，以
適應性管理提出台灣河川復育未來方向之有效建議。 
 
圖一 研究流程圖 
茲針對河川復育整合資料庫、PPAs 與適應性管理分述如下。 
1. 河川復育整合資料庫 
本研究於去年度(98/8/1~99/7/31)執行的計畫(NSC 98-2221-E-006-237-)中，對
全台灣河川復育案例進行蒐集與資料庫的建置，資料來源包括各相關單位(如經
濟部水利署、行政院公共工程委員會、行政院農業委員會水土保持局、特有生物
中心、縣市政府等)之經驗，彙整其河川復育案例之研究成果，並系統化進行資
訊分類，包含計畫推行年度、地理位置、集水區規模、計畫區範圍、計畫目的、
相關組織、計畫時程、計畫實際施作時程、監測項目及相關資訊等。 
2. 河川復育評估(Post-project Appraisals, PPAs) 
本研究參考前人研究，提出一套評估方法(Post-Project Appraisals, PPAs)，作
為了解河川復育之依據。PPAs乃是比對河川復育計畫前(pre-project)與計畫後
4 
 
圖二 PPAs 之評估流程與項目 
 
 
圖三 適應性管理流程(修改自FEMAT, 1993) 
6 
  
圖五 河川復育計畫目的分類圓餅圖(左：水保局台南分局案例；右：網路蒐集案例) 
 
綜合以上論述，本研究著手進行案例之篩選與確立，針對網路蒐集資料挑選
出位於高雄市之愛河之心河川復育工程進行計畫成效評估方法(Post-project 
Appraisals, PPAs)之深入研究，相關成果請參見下一小節論述。 
 
2. 案例研究 
本研究選取位於高雄市愛河中游段之愛河之心工程做為計畫成效評估方法
(Post-project Appraisals, PPAs)深入研究之案例，透過愛河中心樞紐愛河之心的延
伸，可兼顧愛河整體復育計畫之評估。 
愛河發源自高雄市仁武區，流經高雄市中心後注入高雄港第一港口，流域面
積為57.2 km2，全長約16 km。愛河上游河段，河岸兩旁有親水造景設施，被規
劃為社區河堤公園；中游河段設有愛河之心；下游河段主要為碼頭及河岸景觀。
愛河中下游河段為海水感潮河段，鹹水魚類常洄游至此，形成愛河豐富的魚類生
態。 
「愛河之心」之闢建為高雄市政府推動「愛河之心-愛之船溯航計畫」所興
建之工程，工程內容包含博愛路兩側之東湖(生態池)、西湖(迴船湖)和橫跨博愛
路之景觀陸橋，該工程並榮獲2009全球卓越建設獎環境類卓越獎之殊榮，其結合
河川所進行之整治與環境營造獲得肯定。 
本研究於2009年9月著手進行愛河之心相關資料蒐集與研究，透過現地勘查
結合PPAs評估方法進行工程復育計畫成果評估；然而蒐集資料無法滿足計畫成
效評估時，本研究實行主管機關訪談、問卷調查等方式進行輔助分析研究，於2010
年1月及3月拜訪高雄市政府下水道工程處，進行愛河之心興建工程及愛河之心清
淤作業相關訪談，以了解復育計畫執行過程中之經驗與意見；2010年8月進行愛
河之心民眾問卷調查作業，該問卷調查主要針對民眾對於愛河之心水質、環境營
造及愛之船航運功能之評價進行調查，共調查問卷100份，以做為愛河之心計畫
目標評估之參考。 
8 
表一 高雄市愛河之心河川復育計畫問卷調查結果表(單位：件) 
調查日期：2010 年 8 月。 
本研究案例PPAs評估結果請參見表二，綜觀案例研究成果發現，愛河之心
復育計畫座落於高雄市市中心，河川復育重點著重於防洪及景觀營造，景觀營造
部分獲得廣大群眾之肯定，而滯洪功能因愛河之心為開放式之滯洪空間，滯洪功
能僅約100,000m3；水質改善功能則因設計考量不足而效益不彰；愛之船溯航功
能雖然達成，但航線航班之規劃及鄰近交通串聯仍有改善空間。 
表二 高雄市愛河之心河川復育計畫評估(PPAs)結果彙整表 
檢視項目 評估結果 說明 
計畫目標 
及成功標準 
不明確 
愛河之心復育計畫目標為航運功能、景觀營造、
水質改善及滯洪功能，並無明確之成功標準設定。 
基本資料 
蒐集與調查 
不完整 
基本資料調查僅包含河道斷面測量及少量的魚類
資料，並未調查水質。 
設計理念 明確 
設計理念主要考量愛之船迴船空間，景觀營造，
生態池水質改善功能及滯洪空間。 
設計書圖 明確 設計書圖明確記錄。 
完工初期 
調查 
欠缺 
工程施作與設計書圖相符，但是並無對照計畫目
標之相關調查。 
完工後的 
監測計畫 
欠缺 
並無監測計畫，偶有相關研究計畫可針對主管機
關要求進行相關調查，但現階段並無完整監測資
料或監測計畫。 
輔助分析 
程序 
需要 
本研究針對景觀營造及航運與滯洪功能，透過訪
談及問卷調查進行補充調查，以評估計畫目標。 
本研究使用PPA評估方法於案例研究後，為使之適應臺灣河川復育計畫案
例，建議往後研究能將成功度及學習度納入評估，給予詳細之定義，並分別使用
各種評估方法輔助分析，從計畫監測時間的尺度來定義可學習度的高低，並能廣
泛蒐集且套用至各種規模下的河川復育計畫，以適應性管理的概念進行分析與建
議，不斷追蹤監測以調整操作方式與管理措施，進而使台灣河川復育更趨於成熟。 
問題 結果 
愛河之心景觀是否良好? 是：73 否：7 一般：20 
您是否曾經搭乘「愛之船」(愛河之心航線)? 是：24 否：76  
愛之船(愛河之心航線)現階段航班僅假日行
駛，您覺得此前提下之航運便利嗎? 
便利：20 不便利：23 一般：57 
鄰近地區於愛河之心闢建前是否有淹水情形? 有：20 無：66 不清楚：14 
 －愛河之心闢建後，淹水情事是否減少? 是：65% 否：0% 不清楚：35% 
是否知道愛河之心興建前環境樣貌? 知道：64 不知道：36  
 －愛河之心之建設是否符合您的期待? 符合：78.1% 不符合：21.9% 
您覺得愛河之心之建設是成功的嗎? 是：72 否：10 一般：18 
10 
6. Kondolf, G.M. 1998. Lessons learned from river restoration projects in 
California. Aquatic Conservation 8:39-52. 
7. Kondolf, G.M., and E.M. Micheli. 1995. Evaluating stream restoration projects. 
Environmental Management 19:1-15. 
8. Kondolf, G.M., S. Anderson, R. Lave, L. Pagano, A. Merenlender, and E. 
Bernhardt. Two decades of river restoration in California: What can we learn? 
Restoration Ecology 15(3):516-523. 
9. Moerke A. H., and G. A. Lamberti. 2003. Responses in fish community structure 
to restoration of two Indiana streams. North American Journal of Fisheries 
Management 23:748-759 
10. Mitsch, W. J., S. E. Jørgensen, 1989. Ecological engineering: An introduction to 
Ecotechnology, Wiley, New York. 
11. Odum, H. T., 1962. Man in the ecosystem. In proceedings Lockwood 
Conference on the Suburban Forest and Ecology. Bull. Conn. Agr. Station 652. 
Storrs, CT, pp. 57-75. 
12. Odum, H. T., 1971, Environment, power, and society. New York: 
Wiley-Interscience. 
13. Odum, H. T., 1983. System Ecology: An Introduction. Wiley, New York. 
14. Odum, H. T., 1989. Ecological Engineering and self-organization. In Mitsch, W. 
J., S. E. Jørgensen, eds. Ecological engineering: An introduction to 
Ecotechnology, Wiley,New York. pp. 79-101. 
15. Wu, J.T., 1999. A Generic Index of diatom assemblages as bioindicator of 
pollution in the Keelung river of Taiwan. Hydrobiologia 397, 79–87 
16. 朱達仁、施君翰、謝宜衡，2004，台北縣雙溪鄉后番仔坑溪應用生態工法整
治後魚類群聚時空變化之探討，九十三年農業工程研討會，頁1248-1257. 
17. 內政部營建署，1999，七家灣河床棲地改善之詴驗研究(二) 
18. 山正俊，2000，近自然工學，信山社。 
19. 林鎮洋、陳榮河、鄭光炎、蔡仁惠、郭城孟、余嘯雷等，2000-2001，集水
區親水及生態工法之建立，經濟部水資源局委託，國立台北科技大學執行。 
20. 林鎮洋、邱逸文，2003，生態工法之緣起與演變，生態工法講習會講義。 
21. 林士凱，2011，都市型河川復育成效評估之研究-以愛河為例，成功大學碩
士論文(NSC 99-2221-E-006-190-)。 
22. 中國文化大學，2002，河川生態工法及其應用，經濟部水利署。 
 2
一、參加會議經過 
我在 5月 12日晚上從台灣出發，5月 13日抵達荷蘭 Schiphol 機場，由於研討會時間是 5月 16 日
至 5 月 20 日，我先到 Wageningen 跟朋友們碰面並借住一晚，隔天朋友帶我到德國 Düsseldorf 參觀，
晚上借住 Dortmund一位朋友家，隔天大家到Monschau小鎮參觀。 
5 月 16 日一早我從 Wageningen 搭車準備出發去 Groningen，搭了兩個半小時的火車到了
Groningen，並遵循官方指引前往研討會會場。我的報告是在第一天的下午，有些學者對我的研究產生
疑問，透過彼此間的討論，讓我有更多的收穫和想法。在前兩天的 paper sessions我看到了許多決策支
援系統的應用及情境分析，其中挪威的案例讓我印象深刻，他們遭遇由 ice jam引起的水災對我來說非
常新奇，也讓我體會到歐洲各地對於氣候變遷研究的重視。 
第三天大會安排到德國的Meyer Werft，全球最大的郵輪工廠及 Ems barrier參觀，Ems barrier位於
Ems river，在Meyer Werft下游，他的設計必須兼顧防洪及航運，尤其是要提供Meyer Werft所製造的
大型郵輪航運功能，因此在設計上有許多考量及創新。第四天我們去參觀 Roden‐Norg，他位於 Groningen
的西邊，作為保護城市免於水患的洪水保留區及自然保育區。最後一天的會議以水資源及土地利用管
理和糧食生產的主題報告做收尾，並希望將我們討論的結論帶到 2012年的World Water Forum。 
二、與會心得 
這次參加國際研討會，很感謝大會的精心規劃，不僅學術上的交流，也有許多會後活動，讓我認
識 Groningen 的歷史與文化，在研討會上也認識了許多人，大家來自世界各地，研究的主題也不盡然
相同，透過研討會五天的相聚能夠交換彼此的看法及意見。在參觀 Roden‐Norg 時我也看到了荷蘭政府
是怎麼跟當地居民交涉合作，對於居民的需求及當地環境情形了解後並進行規劃，他們的研究精神很
值得我們學習。 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
無 
四、建議 
這次會議剛好碰到 2011年邁向頂尖大學計畫剛開始，各單位的補助不是因為經費還沒分配好就是
不傾向補助碩士生。感謝老師可以補助我這次出國參加研討會，我希望未來碩士生申請補助能夠更加
順利，能越早出國看看對學生有一定的幫助。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
無 
六、其他 
無 
 
 
1 
 
Paper III-1 
 
APPLICATION OF LANDSCAPE ECOLOGICAL DECISION AND 
EVALUATION SUPPORT SYSTEM ON FLOOD MITIGATION STRATEGIES 
 
CHUN-YAO YANG, HSIAO-WEN WANG AND PIN-HAN KUO 
 
Department of Hydraulic and Ocean Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan City, Taiwan 
 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
While flood mitigation measures are needed in flooding prone areas, some of them may impact 
the environment in many aspects, like landscape change and habitat fragmentation. As flooding 
issues nowadays have been more complicated and should be discussed with multidisciplinary 
considerations including land use strategies, ecological concerns, changing climate conditions 
and such, the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of land use changes on flooding, 
landscape pattern, and ecological resources as a whole based on the past environmental changes 
and the future developing trend by the Osiris Model with the concept of Landscape Ecological 
Decision and Evaluation Support System Model (LEDESS). 
Yun-lin County in Taiwan was studied as the area is one of the demonstration sites of the 
Regulation Project of Flood-prone Areas, which was proposed by Water Resource Agency of 
Taiwan (WRA) in 2005. We designed three scenarios, i.e. scenario A for the current situation, 
scenario B for simulating the Taiwanese government policy, and scenario C as a sustainable 
flood mitigation policy with the integrated application of room for water. We used People, 
Planet, Profit as the indicators to understand how they have been impacted under different 
scenarios. The results indicated that lots of land will be abandoned in the near future due to the 
flooding no matter the flood mitigation measures are adopted or not, that is to say, the coastal 
area will turn into wetland area by natural process. Hence, we need to reconsider the land use 
strategy. 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
In recent year, flooding problems with complications and uncertainties due to global climate 
3 
(Website of Yun-lin County Government: http://www.yunlin.gov.tw). Yunlin County is a 
geographically low-lying area and its ground slope is flat, with the exception of the mountain in 
its eastern part. Most of the residents in Yunlin County are engaged in agriculture and fishery. 
Owing to the lack of water resources, large amount of groundwater has been abstracted 
for irrigation, culture, and daily needs. The excessive groundwater abstraction has led to severe 
land subsidence and seawater intrusion in coastal area. Moreover, the development of offshore 
industry park for petroleum and petrochemical industries also deteriorated the surrounding 
environment in recent years, resulting in the loss of nursery grounds for various fishery stocks 
and abandonment of fish and shellfish culture ponds and rice paddies (Hsieh et al., 2004). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Location of Study Area 
 
LEDESS-Yunlin model 
 
We used the Osiris Model and adopted the concept of LEDESS Model to build the 
LEDESS-Yunlin model. Osiris Model, a software of decision and evaluation support system 
developed by Alterra and Wageningen Software Lab, can support spatial planning by defining 
relationships between the spatial plans and available urban, rural and natural resources data, 
building knowledge rules on top to determine impacts and compare the impacts of different 
spatial strategies (Verweija et al., 2010). LEDESS Model, a GIS based expert software of 
Landscape Ecological Decision and Evaluation Support System, can evaluate the environmental 
effects on ecological resources, landscape and such under different scenarios by input the GIS 
maps of existing landscapes, proposed measures and relative expert knowledge rules on 
ecosystems and species involved (Eupen et al, 2003). The LEDESS model is based on the 
ecosystems classification and includes four components, i.e. physiotopes, vegetation structure, 
5 
 
Note: The squares and rounded squares represent the basic maps and knowledge table, respectively. 
Figure 3. Set-up for the Ecotope Map 
 
 
Figure 4. Set-up for the Spatial Charactering - Case of Kentish Plover 
 
Scenario design 
 
We designed three scenarios based on the urban planning and flood mitigation strategies as 
illustrated in Table 1 to compare the impact on planet (ecology concern), people (safety concern) 
7 
still under high risk of flooding after raising the elevation of road around the village. 
Furthermore, the increase of build-up area and raised road caused the habitat more fragmented. 
For Scenario C, we keep the coastal area and river bank (100 meters) as the wetland area, with 
appropriate manage measurement to prevent fragmentation, to provide a better habitat for the 
fauna. 
  
Scenario B Scenario C 
Figure 5. Scenario design for Scenario B and Scenario C 
 
 
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION 
 
Based on the result, we found that lots of land will be abandoned in the near future due to the 
flooding no matter the flood mitigation measures are adopted or not, that is to say, the coastal 
area will turn into wetland area by natural process. Hence, we need to reconsider the land use 
strategy: which region should be reserved for nature, and where we can build the city. By means 
of LEDESS-Yunlin model, we can easily define if it is safe in any place with a simple 
knowledge rule. We can also find the weakness of different scenarios by preliminary simulation 
result. It helps us to think about the possible management to take. On the other hand, relative 
stakeholders and decision maker should be involved in to integrate the ideas. Simultaneously, 
the visual output supports not only the making of decision, but also discussion. And scenario C 
gave a good template, which provides a sustainable environment for both human being and 
fauna. However, there are also some weaknesses of this system. For example, it is difficult to 
assess the effect of pump station using the knowledge rule, so this aspect was neglected in the 
study. We suggest the future studies can use other tool for flood simulation to assess this and 
provide an input of the model. 
 
9 
Society. 
 Wang H.W., 2006, Landscape and Ecological Decision and Evaluation Support System on Lanyang 
Plain, Doctoral Dissertation, Department of Civil Engineering, National Taiwan University, 
Taiwan. 
Website of Central Weather Bureau, Taiwan: http://www.cwb.gov.tw/ 
Website of GreenInnovation: http://www.greeninnovation.com.au 
Website of Yunlin County Government: http://www.yunlin.gov.tw/ 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：王筱雯 計畫編號：99-2221-E-006-190- 
計畫名稱：河川復育之適應性管理 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 0%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 0%  
研討會論文 0 0 0% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 0%   
申請中件數 0 0 0%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 0% 件  
件數 0 0 0% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 0% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 30%  
博士生 1 1 20%  
博士後研究員 0 0 0%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 0% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 0%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 0%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
參 加 25th ICID 
European 
Regional 
Conference，發表
文 章 名 稱 為
「APPLICATION OF 
ANDSCAPE 
ECOLOGICAL 
DECISION AND 
EVALUATION 
SUPPORT SYSTEM 
ON FLOOD 
MITIGATION 
STRATEGIES」 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 0% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 0%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 0% 件  
件數 0 0 0% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 0% 千元  
國外 
參與計畫人力 碩士生 0 0 0% 人次  
