摘要 
 
可適性陣列波束成型器(Adaptive array beamformer)是一種被設計能依外界信
號特性及接收環境的變化，根據陣列本身所接收到的信號來調整其內部的權重向
量，以接收某指定方向信號同時消除雜訊與其他不同方向的干擾信號。由廣泛地被
應用於近代的雷達、聲納、以及今日的通信糸統中，可知其重要性。在今日許多應
用上，例如人造衛星通訊方面， 信號接收天線在消除干擾時必須具有同時接收多於
一個以上之不同信號並且提供不同的信號增益。因此吾人必須使用可適性陣列天線
擁有多重波束成型之能力。在已有之研究文獻資料中顯示欲達到這目的，吾人必須
使用繁雜之運算程序去解決一個非線性之最佳化問題。在已有之文獻資料中顯示研
究成果大部分以討論一維可適性陣列波束成型器為主，而此一維可適性陣列波束成
型器只適用於陣列與信號源必須在同一平平面之條件。(I) 但在實際應用環境中,
有許多信號從不同之方向入射到一維可適性陣列，但對本一維可適性陣列而言，卻
擁有相同之入射角度。因此一維可適性陣列無法利用一個維度去分辨三度空間中不
同之信號源如此將導致陣列無法辨認所欲之信號源與干擾源。而且至今吾人也發現
基本上傳統一維可適性陣列波束成型理論與技術無法簡單地加以延伸或擴充至二維
陣列可適性波束成型。為解決此一維可適性陣列無法解決之困難吾人必須求助於使
用二維陣列來設計可適性波束成型器及發展二維陣列可適性波束成型之相關理論與
技術。 (II) 此外許多研究報告已經顯示可適性陣列波束成型器對於外界環境中存
在有同頻(coherence)信號源時，尤其當所欲之信號與干擾信號為同頻時，天線陣列
將無法辨認兩者之差別，因而產生天線陣列無法正確接收所欲之信號且同時消除干
擾信號與雜訊之效能變差問題，因此如何研發出有效之強健式(Robust)技術以破解
所欲之信號與干擾信號間之同頻性成為發展二維陣列可適性波束成型之相關技術之
重要課題。 (III) 此外許多研究報告已經顯示可適性陣列波束成型器對於之外界環
境中所欲信號源存在有指引角度誤差相當敏感。如遇到有這樣之誤差，將導致其性
能大受影響甚至於失效的問題。因此如何研發出有效之強健式技術以解決所欲信號
之入射角度與指引角度間之誤差成為發展二維陣列可適性波束成型之相關技術之重
要課題。 
    針對上述三項問題，本計劃進行為期參年的研究工作。在第一年研究工作中，
我們推導在具有多重波束成型限制之情況下，二維陣列(2-D Array)來設計可適性波
束成型器使用 Frost 演算法則及研發新型廣義旁波束消除器(GSC)架構下進行可適
性陣列波束成型之數學公式，並且推展其前權重向量解答之數學公式，然後以電腦
實驗模擬進行理論成果之分析與改進。第二年研究工作中，我們研究在外界環境中
存在有同頻信號源時之情況下具有強健性之多重波束成型限制二維可適性陣列波束
成型器之理論。利用第一年之研究成果，研究發展在外界環境中存在有同頻信號源
時之情況下使用 Frost 演算法則及所研發之新型廣義旁波束消除器架構之強健式技
術理論之推演與分析改進工作。第三年研究工作中，我們研究在外界環境中存在有
Abstract 
 
In many applications, such as satellite communications, an antenna array must 
possess beamforming capability to receive more than one signal with specified gain 
requirements while suppressing all jammers. This purpose can be effectively achieved by 
using an antenna with multiple-beam pattern. In the literature, it has been proposed to 
find an adaptive weight close to a desired quiescent beam pattern under a unit norm 
constraint on the antenna weight. However, it requires a sophisticated procedure to solve 
the resulting problem that is a nonlinear optimization problem. (I) Research works 
regarding the design and analysis of adaptive array beamformers are widely focused on 
the situations of using an array with one-dimensional (1-D) scenario. In this case, the 
signal sources and the array elements are assumed to be coplanar. However, in many 
practical applications, there may exist different signals impinging on a 1-D array with 
different directions. But these signals possess the same angle with respect to the 
broadside of the 1-D array. However, a 1-D array can only distinguish the azimuth angle 
or the elevation angle also in the absence of a number of interfering signals. Moreover, it 
is usually impossible to simply extend the principles and techniques of 1-D case to deal 
with the mentioned problem. In these circumstances, we must resort to the use of 
adaptive beamforming with two-dimensional (2-D) array scenario. As a result, it is worth 
conducting the research on the principles and techniques for adaptive beamforming 
multiple-beam constraints (MBC) using 2-D arrays. (II) In the presence of coherence 
between the desired signals and interferers, the performance of a 2-D array beamformer is 
deteriorated due to signal cancellation phenomenon. This is due to the fact that the 
eigenstructure like the Toeplitz property of the correlation matrix of the received array 
data vector will be destroyed because the rank of the correlation matrix of the received 
array data vector is affected by the coherence between the desired signals and interferers. 
Therefore, it is worth conducting the research on the principles and techniques for 
adaptive beamforming with MBC using 2-D arrays in the presence of coherent signal 
sources. (III) Moreover, many reports show that adaptive beamformers are usually very 
beamforming with robust capabilities against steering angle errors.  
The research achievements of the three-year project have been demonstrated by the 
required computer simulations for confirming the theoretical results and making 
comparisons with existing conventional techniques. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The joint constraint method invokes a cost function consisting of two constraints. The 
first constraint is the squared norm of the projection of the steering vector on the noise 
subspace. The second constraint is an exponential function of the squared norm of the 
steering error vector. The exponential constraint is utilized to prevent the estimated 
steering vector for each desired signal from becoming one of the array response vectors 
for the interferers. We use a gradient-based algorithm to iteratively find the solution for 
the resulting minimization problem. Several simulation examples show that the proposed 
method outperforms the VL technique for the considered uncertainty. 
This report is organized as follows. Chapter 2 formulates the problem of adaptive 
beamforming using two-dimensional (2-D) circular arrays. In Chapter 3, we analyze the 
situation of 2-D adaptive beamforming using 2-D circular arrays in the presence of 
steering angle mismatch. Chapter 4 presents a robust technique for dealing with the 
performance degradation due to steering angle mismatch. Chapter 5 presents the 
convergence property of the proposed robust technique. Simulation results for illustration 
and comparison are provided in Chapter 6. Finally, we conclude the report in Chapter 7. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“H” denotes Hermitian transpose operation. The array output y(t) is given by y(t) = wHx(t), 
where w = [ w1 w2 w3 …. wM]T represents the array weight vector to be found. Assume 
that the first Q signals are the desired signals. According to the LCMV criterion, we 
formulate the beamforming problem as follows: 
Minimize   wHRxxw     
Subject to  AcHw = c ,                                   (4) 
where Ac = [a(f,θ1,φ 1) a(f,θ2,φ 2) …. a(f,θQ,φ Q) ] denotes the M×Q constraint matrix. c = 
[ c1 c2 …cQ ]T denotes the Q×1 gain vector. The optimal solution of (4) is given as 
follows: 
w = Rxx-1Ac(AcHRxx-1Ac)-1c.                                             (5) 
The array output signal-to-interference plus noise ratio (SINR) is defined by SINR = 
PoS/(PoI + PoN), where PoS , PoI, and PoN represents the output power due to the Q desired 
signals, P − Q interferers, and noise, respectively. They are computed from the following 
formulas: 
 
      PoS =
2H
1 1
),,()( qqkkqs
K
k
Q
q
ffP φθaw∑∑
= =
,   PoI = 
2H
1 1
),,()( qqkkqi
K
k
Q
Qq
ffP φθaw∑∑
= +=
, 
and         PoN = E ⎥⎥⎦
⎤
⎢⎢⎣
⎡∑
=
2
1
H )(
K
k
tnw  = w2nσ ∑
=
K
k 1
HIMJw = w2nσ ∑
=
K
k 1
Hw .        (6) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
solve this problem as follows. First, we rewrite (11) as follows: 
J(S) = (S)H W(S) – κ exp{– [(S–Sd)H(S–Sd)]/2} ,                   (12) 
where the MQ×1 vectors S = [ b(f,θ1,φ 1)T b(f,θ2,φ 2)T… b(f,θQ,φ Q)T ]T and Sd = 
[ a(f,θ1,φ 1)T a(f,θ2,φ 2)T…a(f,θQ,φ Q)T ]T, and W is an MQ×MQ block diagonal matrix 
with the th M×M diagonal block matrix given by El nEnH, = 1, 2, …, Q.  The 
gradient vector of J(S) is computed according to 
l
∇ SJ(S) = WS + (κ/2)[exp{–[(S–Sd)H(S–Sd)]/2}(S–Sd)].             (13) 
Then, we update the vector S and the estimate a~ (f,θq,φ q) of the array response vector 
a(f,θq,φ q) as follows: 
       S(i+1) = S(i) – ε▽SJ(S(i)) ,  a~ (f,θq,φ q)(i+1) = b(f,θq,φ q)(i+1)☉Ψ,     
 q = 1, 2, ….., Q,           (14) 
where the superscript i denotes the ith iteration and ε the preset positive step size. From 
(13), we note that the second term includes the factor of the squared norm related to each 
of the errors b(f,θq,φ q)–a(f,θq,φ q), q = 1, 2, …, Q, at the ith iteration. Hence, it would be 
expected that the resulting gradient approach for finding the optimal S can provide a 
more appropriate estimate of S since the resulting step size becomes variable due to the 
exponential term as shown in (13). The value of the step size ε can influence the 
convergence speed of the proposed approach. The proposed approach converges faster as 
ε increases due to the gradient-based method. A proof showing the convergence of the 
proposed iterative procedure is presented in the Appendix. 
 
4.2  Noise Subspace Estimation 
We present a simple algorithm based on the information theoretic criteria of [6] to 
effectively estimate the basis matrix En of the noise subspace. First, we compute the 
M×M sample correlation matrix of the received data vector x(t) by using N data snapshots 
Rxxs =∑ ,where x(t
=
N
n
nn tt
1
H)()( xx n) denotes the sample of x(t) taken at the time instant tn. 
Then, we perform the eigenvalue decomposition (EVD) on Rxxs to obtain the eigenvalues 
 CHAPTER  5   ANALYSIS OF CONVERGENCE PROPERTY 
    We show that the cost function of (12) possesses the property of J(S(i+1)) < J(S(i)). 
For the sake of simplicity, we let the MQ×1 vector B(i) be the second term of (13), i.e., 
B(i) = – ε▽ΦJ(S(i)). Then, 
(B(i))HB(i) = (B(i))H{–ε[W(S(i))] – (εκ/2)[exp{–[(S(i)–Sd)H(S(i)–Sd)]/2}(S(i)–Sd)] }> 0. 
(15)  
Hence,   (B(i))H[W(S(i))] <–(κ/2)[exp{–[(S(i)–Sd)H(S(i)–Sd)]/2}(B(i))H(S(i)–Sd)]              
or 
      Re{(B(i))H[W(S(i))]} <–(κ/2)exp{–[(S(i)–Sd)H(S(i)–Sd)]/2}×Re{(B(i))H(S(i)–Sd)},        
(16) 
where Re{x} represents the real part of x. We have the following approximation by 
neglecting the higher-order terms like (B(i))H(B(i))  
 exp{–[(S(i+1)–Sd)H(S(i+1)–Sd)]/2} = exp{–[(S(i)+ B(i)–Sd)H(S(i)+ B(i)–Sd)]/2} 
= exp{–[(S(i)–Sd)H(S(i)–Sd)]/2}×exp{–[(S(i)–Sd)HB(i)]/2}×exp{–[(B(i))H(S(i)–Sd)]/2} 
×exp{–[(B(i))H(B(i))]/2}  
= exp{–[(S(i)–Sd)H(S(i)–Sd)]/2}×exp{–[(B(i))H(B(i))]/2}×exp{–Re[(S(i)–Sd)HB(i)]} 
≈ exp{–[(S(i)–Sd)H(S(i)–Sd)]/2}×{1 − Re[(S(i)–Sd)HB(i)]}.                  (17)  
Hence,       
J(S(i+1)) = (S(i+1))H W(S(i+1)) – κ exp{– [(S(i+1)–Sd)H(S(i+1)–Sd)]/2} 
       = (S(i)+ B(i))HW(S(i)+ B(i)) – κ exp{– [(S(i)+ B(i)–Sd)H(S(i)+ B(i)–Sd)]/2} 
       ≈ (S(i))HW(S(i)) + (B(i))HW(S(i)) + (S(i))HW(B(i)) + (B(i))HW(B(i)) −  
κexp{–[(S(i)–Sd)H(S(i)–Sd)]/2}×{1 − Re[(S(i)–Sd)HB(i)] } 
       ≈ J(S(i)) + 2Re[(S(i))HW(B(i))] 
+ Re[(S(i)–Sd)HB(i)]κexp{–[(S(i)–Sd)H(S(i)–Sd)]/2}.              (18) 
We obtain from (16) and (18) 
J(S(i+1)) − J(S(i)) ≈ 2Re[(S(i))HW(B(i))] +  
Re[(S(i)–Sd)HB(i)]κexp{–[(S(i)–Sd)H(S(i)–Sd)]/2} 
 
CHAPTER  6   COMPUTER SIMULATION RESULTS 
 
   We use a UCA with the ratio of inter-element spacing d to the minimum wavelength 
of the desired signals equal to 0.5. The noise is spatially white with variance = 1. The ε 
and κ used by the proposed method for all examples are set to 0.1 and 0.00001, 
respectively. The stopping criterion for terminating the iteration procedure is that the 
norm of the gradient vector ▽ΦJ(Φ) is not greater than 0.01. 
    Example1: Here, five signal sources with SNRs equal to 5, 5, 5, 15, and 15 dB, 
respectively, are impinging on the array with size M = 8 from direction angles (θ,φ ) equal 
to (85o, 40o), (35o, 200o), (30o, 120o), (55o, 65o), and (50o, 160o), respectively. Let the 
desired signal be the first three with ci =1, i = 1, 2, 3, and the others be the interference 
with ci =0, i = 4, 5. The steering angle errors for the desired signals are set to (Δθi,Δφ i) = 
(10o,10o) for i = 1, 2, 3. Figure 2 depicts the output SINR versus the power of the desired 
signals with the interferers’ power fixed at 15 dB and the number of data snapshots equal 
to 20000. The number of Monte Carlo runs is 50. Figure 3 depicts the output SINR versus 
the number of data snapshots. The results of using the variable loading (VL) method of [5] 
are also shown for comparison. We observe that the proposed method can effectively 
cope with the performance degradation. 
Example2: Here, four signal sources with SNRs equal to 0, 0, 10, and 10 dB, respectively, 
are impinging on the array with size M = 20 from direction angles (θ,φ ) equal to (85o, 
40o), (35o, 200o), (55o, 265o), and (50o, 160o), respectively. Let the desired signal be the 
first three with ci =1, i = 1, 2, and the others be the interference with ci =0, i = 3, 5. The 
steering angle errors for the desired signals are set to (Δθi,Δφ i) = (10o,10o) for i = 1, 2. 
The number of data snapshots equal to 10000 is used for this simulation example. The 
number of Monte Carlo runs is 30. Figure 4 plots the array beam patterns without steering 
angle mismatch. Figure 5 plots the array beam patterns with steering angle mismatch. 
Figure 6 shows the array beam patterns of using the proposed method. Figure 7 depicts 
the output SINR versus the number of data snapshots. Figure 8 plots the array output 
 
CHAPTER 7  CONCLUSION 
 
This report has presented a robust method for adaptive beamforming using a 
uniform circular array against an uncertainty due to steering angle mismatch. We propose 
a cost function consisting of the squared norm of the projection of the array response 
vectors on the noise subspace and a constraint related to an exponential function of the 
squared norm of the steering angle error. We utilize a gradient-based algorithm to 
estimate the array response vectors of the desired signals by minimizing the cost function. 
A proof of convergence for the proposed method has been given. Simulation examples 
have confirmed the effectiveness of the proposed method. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Figure 1: The geometric illustration of a 2-D uniform circular array. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 9000 10000
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
Number of data snapshots
O
ut
pu
t S
IN
R 
in
 d
B
LCMV Without Mismatch
LCMV With Mismatch
The Proposed Method
 
The VL Method
 
 
Figure 3: Array output SINR versus number of data snapshots for Example 1. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Figure 5. The array beam patterns with steering angle mismatch for Example 2. 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7. Array output SINR versus number of data snapshots for Example 2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9: Number of iterations versus the relative weight for the Example 2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 11: Number of iterations versus the threshold for the Example 2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 13: Number of iterations versus the step size for the Example 2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC96-2221-E002-086 
計畫名稱 二維可適性陣列信號處理理論與強健式技術之研究(3/3) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 李枝宏, 國立臺灣大學電信工程學研究所教授 
會議時間地點 2008 年 8 月 18 日起至 2008 年 8 月 20 日止 在 美國 的 夏威夷州Kailua-Kona 市舉行 
會議名稱 The IASTED International Conference on Signal and Image Processing  2008
發表論文題目 Adaptive Beamforming using Uniform Circular Arrays with Steering Mismatch
 
一、參加會議經過 
二、與會心得 
2008 年國際科學與技術促進發展協會 (The International Association of Science and Technology for 
Development) 所主辦的信號與影像處理國際會議 (The IASTED International Conference on Signal 
and Image Processing  2008) 於 2008 年 8 月 18 日起至 2008 年 8 月 20 日止 在 美國 的 夏威
夷州 Kailua-Kona 市舉行 ◦ 參加本項國際會議之學者專家等研究人員所來自於國家或地區計有 
Argentina, Austria, Australia, Brazil, Belgium, Canada, China, Columbia, Czech Republic, Denmark, 
France, Germany, India, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, Kuwait, Libya, Madagascar, Mexico, 
The Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Pakistan, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, 
Singapore, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, United Arab Emirates, USA, United 
Kingdom 等 40 國 ◦ 會議論文發表議程自 8 月 18 日起至 8 月 20 日為期三天, 共有九十三篇在大
會上發表, 在論文發表會場之討論與交換研究心得之氣氛皆相當熱烈◦ 在第一天(August 18, 2008)
早 上 之 大 會 議 程 中 , 主 辧 單 位 首 先 安 排 有 一 場  TUTORIAL PRESENTATION 講 題 
“NUCLEOTIDE GENOMIC SIGNAL REPRESENTATION AND PROCESSING”, 主 講 者 為
University of Bucharest, Romania, Bio-Medical Engineering Center 教授 Dr. Cristea, 他的研究專長
在於 Genomic Signals, Signal and Image processing, Intelligent E-Learning Systems, Circuit Theory 
and Design, Computer Assisted Medical Equipment, Advanced Electrical Batteries and other.  
 本專題演講之主要內容與重點如下: 
“We have developed a genomic signals methodology, based on the conversion of symbolic nucleotide 
sequences into genomic signals. There have been several other attempts to represent nucleotide 
developed without considering the real-time constraints they ought to meet if they are ever going to be 
deployed in resource limited image or video processing products. This talk provides an overview of the 
guidelines and strategies for transitioning an image or video processing algorithm from a research 
environment into a real-time constrained environment. More specifically, the following topics will be 
covered: (a) algorithmic simplification strategies, (b) hardware platforms for real-time implementation, 
and (c) software optimization techniques. Various examples from the literature will be presented to more 
effectively convey the real-time strategies.  
 
接 著 在 下 午 主 辦 單 位 安 排 有 一 場  Invited Speech 講 題 “ALL-OPTICAL CIRCUITS FOR 
ULTRAFAST INFORMATION PROCESSING AND COMPUTING ”, 主講者為 Institut National de la 
Recherche Scientifique (INRS), Montreal, CANADA , 電機系教授 Dr. Azana, 他的研究專長在於
Fiber and Integrated Technologies for Ultrafast Pptical Signal Processing and Optical Pulse Shaping, for 
Various Applications, including Fiber-Optics Telecommunications, Optical Computing, Measurement 
and Characterization of Ultrafast Events and Photonics/Optoelectronic Components and Devices, 
Biomedical Imaging, and Ultra-Wideband (UWB) Microwave Waveform Generation and Processing. 
 本專題演講之主要內容與重點如下: 
The implementation of all-optical circuits for computing, information processing, and networking is 
widely recognized as a very promising approach to overcome the severe speed limitations currently 
imposed by electronic-based systems. Photonics technologies have the potential to enable processing 
speeds several orders of magnitude higher than with electronics. However, in photonics, there are still no 
equivalents to devices that form basic building blocks in electronic circuits, where fundamental signal 
processing operations can be realized using a simple combination of operational amplifiers, resistors, 
and capacitors. Thus, the design and realization of photonic devices to perform these fundamental 
operations over light waveforms is a necessary primary step towards the practical realization of 
all-optical computers and information processors. Two very relevant examples of basic building blocks 
for constructing all-optical signal processing circuits are a photonics temporal differentiator and a 
photonics temporal integrator. To give an example of their significance, in analogy with their electronic 
counterparts, these devices have been identified as key elements to build up ultrafast all-optical 
computing systems devoted to real-time solving of differential equations. It should be emphasized that 
these equations play a central role in virtually any field of science or engineering (e.g., physics, 
chemistry, biology, economy, and the different branches of engineering). Our research group has 
recently proposed, developed and demonstrated the first set of devices for both photonics temporal 
Modeling based on CCD/IR Image” 
2. “A Review and Evaluation of Image Contrast Enhancement Algorithms based on Statistical 
Measures” 
3.  “Intelligent Spatial Object Digitization based on Stereo Images” 
4.  “Fast Spectral Clustering for Image Segmentation” 
5.  “An Efficient Algorithm for the Bayes Codes using an Unlimited Depth Context Tree” 
6.  “Multi-Dimensional K-Means Image Segmentation for Off-Road Autonomous Navigation”  
7.  “Enhanced DOI Algorithm for De-Interlacing based on Median Filter” 
8.  “Content-based Selection of Methods for Image Segmentation” 
9.  “A Novel Wavelet-based Optimal Thresholding Algorithm” 
10.  “Variogram Analysis According to Feature Characteristics in Urban Remote Sensing” 
11.  “Text Segmentation and Reorientation from Scanned Color Topographic Maps” 
 
第四議程, 其主題為 “SPEECH AND AUDIO PROCESSING” , 共有8篇大會論文發表: 
1.  “Applications of Environmental Sensing for Spherical Loudspeaker Arrays” 
2.  “Multiple Pitch Estimation for an Automatic Music Transcription System Using a Support Vector 
Machine” 
3.  “Noisy BSS based on Joint Diagonalization of Differences of Correlation Matrice” 
4.  “Optimized Filterbank Frost Beamforming” 
5.  “Enhancing the Quality of Audio Transformations using the Multi-Scale Short-Time Fourier 
Transform” 
6.  “Acoustic Signature Recognition with Wavelet Analysis” 
7.  “Noisy Speech Signal Processing using Autocorrelation Function” 
8.  “An Application of Lateral Inhibition to Robust Speech Recognition” 
 
下午接著為第五議程, 其主題為 “VIDEO PROCESSING AND CODING I” , 共有７篇大會
論文發表: 
1. “High-Performance Video Content Analysis Using Hybrid, Multi-Core Processors” 
2. “Frame Correlation based Vertical-Temporal Filtering for Deinterlacing” 
3. “Incremental SVDD Training: Improving Efficiency of Background Modeling in Videos” 
4. “Fast Search for Large Video Database using Adjacent Pixel Intensity Difference Quantization 
Histogram” 
UCA with the ratio of intersensor spacing d to the minimum wavelength of the desired signals equal to 
0.5. All signals used for simulations are binary phase shift keying (BPSK) signals with rectangular 
pulse shape. The number of Monte Carlo runs is 50. The noise is spatially white with variance = 1. The 
ε and κ used by the proposed method are set to 0.1 and 0.00001, respectively. The stopping criterion for 
terminating the iteration procedure is that the norm of the gradient vector ▽ΦJ(Φ) is not greater than 
0.01. 
    Example: Here, five signal sources with SNRs equal to 5, 5, 5, 15, and 15 dB, respectively, are 
impinging on the array with size M = 8 from the direction angles (θ,φ ) equal to (85o, 40o), (35o, 200o), 
(30o, 120o), (55o, 65o), and (50o, 160o), respectively. Let the desired signals be the first three with ci =1, i 
= 1, 2, 3, and the others be the interferers with ci =0, i = 4, 5. The steering angle errors for the desired 
signals are set to (Δθi,Δφ i) = (10o,10o) for i = 1, 2, 3. Figure 2 depicts the output SINR versus the power 
of the desired signals with the interferers’ powers fixed at 15 dB and the number of data snapshots equal 
to 20000. Figure 3 plots the output SINR versus the number of data snapshots. The results of using the 
variable loading (VL) method of [5] are also shown for comparison. We observe that the proposed 
method can effectively cope with the performance degradation. Finally, we illustrate how sensitive the 
array performance is with respect to the value of κ. Figures 4 and 5 show the array output SINR and the 
required number of iterations versus κ, respectively. We note that the proposed method provides array 
performance with robust capabilities that is not very sensitive to the choice of κ for log10(κ) ≦ －1.5. 
The required number of iterations also holds steadily for log10(κ) ≦ －1.5.” 
Figure 3. The output SINR versus the number of snapshots for the Example. 
-5 -4 -3 -2 -1 0 1
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
log10(κ)
O
ut
pu
t S
IN
R
 in
 d
B
 
Figure 4. The output SINR versus the relative weight for the Example. 
 
-5 -4 -3 -2 -1 0 1
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
7000
8000
9000
log10(κ)
N
um
be
r 
of
 It
er
at
io
ns
 
下午第十議程, 其主題為“COMPUTER VISION, CODING AND DECODING” , 共有 8 篇大會論文
發表:  
1. “A Particle Filter Approach to Learning Partial Shape Correspondences” 
2. “Numerical Aspects of Stochastic Resonant Detectors” 
3. “A New Face Recognition System using Eigenfaces and Neural Network” 
4. “An Efficient Face Image Retrieval through DCT Features” 
5. “Face and Lip Localization in Unconstrained Imagery” 
6. “A Delta Sigma Modulator Design Technique using a Hybrid Genetic Algorithm” 
7. “Application of the LLL Algorithm in Sphere Decoding” 
8. “Tour into the Picture Simplified (TIPS) – 3D Walkthrough from Single Image using Cuboid Mesh” 
 
第十一議程, 其主題為“DETECTION, IDENTIFICATION AND ESTIMATION II” , 共有 9 篇大會
論文發表: 
1. “Performance Analysis for DOA Estimation using the Prime Algorithm” 
2. “Evaluation of the Integrated Ornstein-Uhlenbeck Process in Application to Ship Track Estimation” 
3. “Aerosol Optical Depth Spatial Variation as Sensed by a Sunphotometer and Compared to a Fixed 
Aeronet Station” 
4. “Efficient Vehicle Tracking and Classification for an Automated Traffic Surveillance System” 
5. “An Enhanced Joint Time-Scale and TDOA Estimator for Geolocation of Electromagnetic 
Transmitters” 
6. “A Novel Model Parameter Estimation of an Induction Motor using Genetic Algorithm” 
7. “Distributed Receding Horizon Filtering for Linear Multisensor Contiuous-Time Systems” 
8. “Fingerprint Recognition with Curvelet Features and Fuzzy KNN Classifier” 
9. “Minutiae Extraction in Fingerprints Images” 
第十二議程, 其主題為“SIGNAL AND IMAGE PROCESSING APPLICATIONS ” , 共有 6 篇大會論
文發表:  
1. “Nucleotide Genomic Signal Analysis of PR and RT Variablity Including HIV Drug Resistance” 
2. “Detection of Vessels in Human Forearms using 2D Matched Filtering” 
3.  “Analysing Vegetation Response to Two Successive Fires using Satellite Spot-VGT Normalized 
Difference Vegetation Index Time Series” 
4. “Metal and Integral Polymeric Fixed Partial Dentures Quality Technology Analysis using Optical 
Coherence Tomography” 
 
 
ROBUST ADAPTIVE BEAMFORMING USING CIRCULAR ARRAYS WITH 
STEERING MISMATCH  
 
       Ju-Hong Lee and Shuo-Wei Hsiao 
    Graduate Institute of Communication Engineering 
       National Taiwan University 
      No. 1, Sec. 4, Roosevelt Rd., Taipei  10617 
TAIWAN 
juhong@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
Adaptive beamforming using a uniform circular array (UCA) 
under steering angle mismatch is considered. We propose a 
cost function consisting of the terms that use a posteriori 
information related to the received array data and an 
exponential constraint. An estimate of the actual array 
response vector for each of the desired signals is obtained 
by minimizing the cost function. An algorithm is further 
presented to iteratively solve the optimization problem. 
Theoretical analysis regarding the convergence property of 
the proposed method is investigated. Simulation examples 
are provided for showing the effectiveness of the proposed 
method. 
 
KEY WORDS 
Array Signal Processing, Adaptive Beamforming, Uniform 
Circular Array (UCA), Steering Angle Mismatch.  
 
1.  Introduction 
 
Recently, the explosive growth of wireless 
communications stimulates the research for the design and 
analysis of 2-D adaptive beamformers using a UCA. For 
example, a UCA with half-wavelength interelement spacing 
can be used as part of a base station of a code-division 
multiple-access (CDMA) cellular communication system. 
The weights of a UCA are determined by adaptively 
processing the received signal data using spatial information. 
In practice, the spatial information may suffer from an 
uncertainty due to steering angle mismatch. To mitigate the 
effect of the spatial information uncertainty, most robust 
techniques propose to impose additional constraints [1,2]. 
However, these additional constraints reduce the 
beamformer’s degrees of freedom and, hence, degrade the 
beamformer’s capability in interference and noise 
suppression. Recently, several robust methods are developed 
by imposing a either spherical or ellipsoidal uncertainty 
constraint directly on the steering vector for the 
conventional linearly main-beam constrained minimum 
variance (LCMV) beamforming [3-5]. These methods 
belong to the class of diagonal loading (DL) technique 
which has been widely utilized to provide robustness in 
dealing with steering angle mismatch. Adding a loading 
value α to the diagonal entries of the sample data correlation 
matrix is equivalent to adding α to each eigenvalue without 
changing the eigenvectors. This kind of ad hoc technique 
usually helps to reduce the array sidelobes. However, it is 
somewhat difficult to find the relationship between the 
loading value and the level of uncertainty constraint or the 
preset level of robustness. Recently, a variable loading (VL) 
technique is presented by [5] to avoid the trade-off 
encountered in the DL technique. 
In this paper, we present an adaptive array beamformer 
using a UCA with robust capabilities against steering angle 
mismatch. To cope with the uncertainty, we develop a joint 
constraint method in conjunction with an iterative procedure 
to obtain an appropriate estimate of the actual array 
response vector for each of the desired signals. The joint 
constraint method invokes a cost function consisting of two 
constraints. The first constraint is the squared norm of the 
projection of the estimated steering vector on the noise 
subspace. The second constraint is an exponential function 
of the squared norm of the resulting steering error vector. 
The exponential constraint is utilized to prevent the 
estimated steering vector for each desired signal from 
becoming one of the array response vectors for the 
interferers. We use a gradient-based algorithm to iteratively 
find the solution for the resulting minimization problem. 
Simulation results show that the proposed method 
outperforms the VL technique for the considered 
uncertainty. 
 
2.  Problem Formulation 
 
Consider a UCA consists of M sensors as shown in 
Figure 1. Let R be the radius and d be the spacing between 
two adjacent sensors. Thus, we have d = (2R)sin(π/M). 
Assume that P uncorrelated narrowband and far-field 
signals with complex waveforms sp(t) are impinging on the 
array from the direction angles (θp,φ p), p = 1, 2, … , P. We 
can express the signal received by the mth array sensor as 
xm,(t) =  + n∑
=
P
p
pmp fats
1
p ),,()( φθ m,(t) , m = 1, 2, …, M,  
(1) 
2, …, Q, on the noise subspace spanned by En, the 
second term is the constraint related to the squared 
norm of the array response vector error, and κ denotes 
a positive parameter providing the relative weight 
between these terms. In the case of large angle 
separation between the desired signals and interferers, 
we prefer to set a small value for κ to enhance the 
orthogonality between the estimated array response 
vectors and the noise subspace. We may set a large κ 
when the desired signals and interferers are close. We 
resort to an iterative procedure to solve this problem as 
follows. First, we rewrite (10) as follows: 
J(S) = (S)H W(S) – κ exp{– [(S–Sd)H(S–Sd)]/2} ,  (11) 
where the MQ×1 vector Sd = [ a(f,θ1,φ 1)T a(f,θ2,φ 2)T  
…a(f,θQ,φ Q)T ]T, and W is an MQ×MQ block diagonal 
matrix with the th M×M diagonal block matrix 
given by E
l
nEnH, = 1, 2, …, Q.  The gradient vector 
of J(S) is given by 
l
∇ SJ(S) =WS + (κ/2)[exp{–[(S–Sd)H(S–Sd)]/2}(S–Sd)].   
(12) 
Then, we update the vector S and the estimate 
a~ (f,θq,φ q) of the array response vector a(f,θq,φ q) as 
follows: 
S(i+1) = S(i) – ε▽SJ(S(i)) ,  a~ (f,θq, φ q)(i+1) = 
b(f,θq,φ q)(i+1), 
q = 1, 2, ….., Q,                           (13) 
where the superscript i denotes the ith iteration and ε 
the preset positive step size. From (12), we note that 
the second term includes the factor of the squared 
norm related to each of the errors b(f,θq,φ q)–a(f,θq,φ q), 
q = 1, 2, …, Q, at the ith iteration. Hence, it would be 
expected that the resulting gradient approach for 
finding the optimal S can provide a more appropriate 
estimate of S since the resulting step size becomes 
variable due to the exponential term as shown in (12). 
The value of the step size ε can influence the 
convergence speed of the proposed approach. The 
proposed approach converges faster as ε increases due 
to the gradient-based method. A proof showing the 
convergence of the proposed iterative procedure is 
presented in the Appendix. 
 
3.2 Noise Subspace Estimation 
 
We present a simple algorithm based on the 
information theoretic criteria of [6] to effectively 
estimate the basis matrix En of the noise subspace. 
First, we compute the M×M sample correlation matrix 
of the received data vector x(t) by using N data 
snapshots Rxxs =∑ ,where x(t
=
N
n
nn tt
1
H)()( xx n) denotes 
the sample of x(t) taken at the time instant tn. Then, we 
perform the eigenvalue decomposition (EVD) on Rxxs 
to obtain the eigenvalues of Rxxs in descending order, 
1ζ ≧ 2ζ ≧ …… ≧ Mζ . Finally, the MDL criteria of 
[6] is employed to obtain an estimate D of the 
dimensionality of the source subspace. We choose the 
eigenvectors { , , …., } associated with 
the eigenvalues {
1+De 2+De Me
1+Dζ , 2+Dζ ,….., ζ M} and construct 
the basis matrix Ens = [ , , …., ] which 
spans the noise subspace. 
1+De 2+De Me
 
4. Computer Simulation Results 
 
We use a UCA with the ratio of intersensor spacing d 
to the minimum wavelength of the desired signals equal to 
0.5. All signals used for simulations are binary phase shift 
keying (BPSK) signals with rectangular pulse shape. The 
number of Monte Carlo runs is 50. The noise is spatially 
white with variance = 1. The ε and κ used by the proposed 
method are set to 0.1 and 0.00001, respectively. The 
stopping criterion for terminating the iteration procedure is 
that the norm of the gradient vector ▽ΦJ(Φ) is not greater 
than 0.01. 
    Example: Here, five signal sources with SNRs 
equal to 5, 5, 5, 15, and 15 dB, respectively, are 
impinging on the array with size M = 8 from the 
direction angles (θ,φ ) equal to (85o, 40o), (35o, 200o), 
(30o, 120o), (55o, 65o), and (50o, 160o), respectively. 
Let the desired signals be the first three with ci =1, i = 
1, 2, 3, and the others be the interferers with ci =0, i = 
4, 5. The steering angle errors for the desired signals 
are set to (Δθi,Δφ i) = (10o,10o) for i = 1, 2, 3. Figure 2 
depicts the output SINR versus the power of the 
desired signals with the interferers’ powers fixed at 15 
dB and the number of data snapshots equal to 20000. 
Figure 3 plots the output SINR versus the number of 
data snapshots. The results of using the variable 
loading (VL) method of [5] are also shown for 
comparison. We observe that the proposed method can 
effectively cope with the performance degradation. 
Finally, we illustrate how sensitive the array 
performance is with respect to the value of κ. Figures 4 
and 5 show the array output SINR and the required 
number of iterations versus κ, respectively. We note 
that the proposed method provides array performance 
with robust capabilities that is not very sensitive to the 
choice of κ for log10(κ) ≦  － 1.5. The required 
number of iterations also holds steadily for log10(κ) ≦ 
－1.5. 
 
5. Conclusion 
 
  
  
  
 
Figure 1:  The Geometric Illustration of A Uniform Circular Array. 
 
 
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14
0
5
10
15
20
25
Power of Desired Signals in dB
O
ut
pu
t S
IN
R 
in
 d
B
                       
LCMV Without Mismatch
LCMV With Mismatch
The Proposed Method
 
The VL Method
 
Figure 2:  Array output SINR versus power of desired signals for the Example. 
         Figure 4: Array output SINR versus relative weight for the Example. 
-5 -4 -3 -2 -1 0 1
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
7000
8000
9000
log10(κ)
N
um
be
r 
of
 It
er
at
io
ns
 
                   Figure 5: Number of iterations versus relative weight for the Example. 
 54
“we have developed a genomic signals methodology, based on the conversion of symbolic 
nucleotide sequences into genomic signals. There have been several other attempts to represent 
nucleotide sequences as digital signals most using some key properties attached to nitrogeneous 
bases. The main feature of the approach that will be presented and discussed in this tutorial is to be 
unbiased, adequate for different classes of problems related to DNA analysis. Specifically, the 
methodology can be used both for the analysis of large scale features of genomic sequences, 
maintained over distances of 106 - 108 base pairs revealing hidden features and ancestral structures 
of nucleotide sequences, as well as for the study of the variability of pathogens particularly in the 
context of the development of the resistance to treatment. This aspect is important for the fast 
diagnosis and early assessment of drug efficiency, allowing a simple and systematic use of the 
recent advances in molecular medicine to help clinical decisions. The striking regularities of the 
digital genomic signals reveal surprising restrictions in the distribution of nucleotides and pairs of 
nucleotides along DNA sequences in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Structurally, a chromosome 
appears to be more than a plain text, as it corresponds not only to a semantic and a grammar, but it 
also satisfies symmetry restrictions evoking the rhythm and rhyme in poems. These regularities 
allow to use prediction in nucleotide sequences using a methodology close to time series prediction 
and to easily identify exogenous inserts and horizontal transports in the genomes of prokaryotes. 
Based on the phase analysis of complex genomic signals, an interesting model of the "patchy" 
longitudinal structure of chromosomal DNA can be derived. The current structure derives from a 
putative ancestral highly ordered chromosome structure, as a result of processes linked to species 
separation and protection at molecular level. The complex genomic signal phase can be linked to 
molecular potentials corresponding to the unbalanced hydrogen bonds of nucleotides. Such 
potentials can describe the interaction of a DNA segment with proteins and with other DNA 
segments in processes like replication, transcription or crossover. In particular, this model can 
explain the functioning of DNA polymerase as a "brownian machine" during replication, by the 
conversion of random molecular movements into an ordered gradual advance of the enzyme along 
the DNA strand. 
widely recognized as a very promising approach to overcome the severe speed limitations currently 
imposed by electronic-based systems. Photonics technologies have the potential to enable 
processing speeds several orders of magnitude higher than with electronics. However, in photonics, 
there are still no equivalents to devices that form basic building blocks in electronic circuits, where 
fundamental signal processing operations can be realized using a simple combination of operational 
amplifiers, resistors, and capacitors. Thus, the design and realization of photonic devices to perform 
these fundamental operations over light waveforms is a necessary primary step towards the practical 
realization of all-optical computers and information processors. Two very relevant examples of 
basic building blocks for constructing all-optical signal processing circuits are a photonics temporal 
differentiator and a photonics temporal integrator. To give an example of their significance, in 
analogy with their electronic counterparts, these devices have been identified as key elements to 
build up ultrafast all-optical computing systems devoted to real-time solving of differential 
equations. It should be emphasized that these equations play a central role in virtually any field of 
science or engineering (e.g., physics, chemistry, biology, economy, and the different branches of 
engineering). Our research group has recently proposed, developed and demonstrated the first set of 
devices for both photonics temporal differentiation and photonics temporal integration. Our 
experimentally demonstrated devices are capable of processing arbitrary optical signals with time 
features in the sub-picosecond range (corresponding to processing speeds in the terahertz regime), 
well beyond the reach of electronic technologies. As an additional advantage, the designs 
investigated by our group are based on compact and robust waveguide and/or all-fiber optics 
technologies, which could be readily incorporated in future integrated photonic circuits. This talk 
will provide an overview of the different designs for photonics temporal differentiation and 
integration recently demonstrated by our group. The potential of these developed basic devices for 
applications in all-optical computing and information processing, ultrafast coding and switching 
will be also discussed. 
 
接著為第一議程, 其主題為 “SIGNAL PROCESSING AND APPLICATIONS” , 共有 7 篇大
6.  “Multi-Dimensional K-Means Image Segmentation for Off-Road Autonomous Navigation”  
7.  “Enhanced DOI Algorithm for De-Interlacing based on Median Filter” 
8.  “Content-based Selection of Methods for Image Segmentation” 
9.  “A Novel Wavelet-based Optimal Thresholding Algorithm” 
10.  “Variogram Analysis According to Feature Characteristics in Urban Remote Sensing” 
11.  “Text Segmentation and Reorientation from Scanned Color Topographic Maps” 
 
第四議程, 其主題為 “SPEECH AND AUDIO PROCESSING” , 共有8篇大會論文發表: 
1.  “Applications of Environmental Sensing for Spherical Loudspeaker Arrays” 
2.  “Multiple Pitch Estimation for an Automatic Music Transcription System Using a Support 
Vector Machine” 
3.  “Noisy BSS based on Joint Diagonalization of Differences of Correlation Matrice” 
4.  “Optimized Filterbank Frost Beamforming” 
5.  “Enhancing the Quality of Audio Transformations using the Multi-Scale Short-Time Fourier 
Transform” 
6.  “Acoustic Signature Recognition with Wavelet Analysis” 
7.  “Noisy Speech Signal Processing using Autocorrelation Function” 
8.  “An Application of Lateral Inhibition to Robust Speech Recognition” 
 
下午接著為第五議程, 其主題為 “VIDEO PROCESSING AND CODING I” , 共有７篇
大會論文發表: 
1. “High-Performance Video Content Analysis Using Hybrid, Multi-Core Processors” 
2. “Frame Correlation based Vertical-Temporal Filtering for Deinterlacing” 
3. “Incremental SVDD Training: Improving Efficiency of Background Modeling in Videos” 
4. “Fast Search for Large Video Database using Adjacent Pixel Intensity Difference Quantization 
Histogram” 
5. “Human Motion Recognition based on Integrated Time Motion Image and Eigenspace” 
function consisting of two constraints. The first constraint is the squared norm of the projection of 
the estimated steering vector on the noise subspace. The second constraint is an exponential 
function of the squared norm of the resulting steering error vector. The exponential constraint is 
utilized to prevent the estimated steering vector for each desired signal from becoming one of the 
array response vectors for the interferers. We use a gradient-based algorithm to iteratively find the 
solution for the resulting minimization problem. Simulation results show that the proposed method 
outperforms the VL technique for the considered uncertainty. We present simulation results for 
illustration and comparison. We use a UCA with the ratio of intersensor spacing d to the minimum 
wavelength of the desired signals equal to 0.5. All signals used for simulations are binary phase 
shift keying (BPSK) signals with rectangular pulse shape. The number of Monte Carlo runs is 50. 
The noise is spatially white with variance = 1. The ε and κ used by the proposed method are set to 
0.1 and 0.00001, respectively. The stopping criterion for terminating the iteration procedure is that 
the norm of the gradient vector ▽ΦJ(Φ) is not greater than 0.01. 
    Example: Here, five signal sources with SNRs equal to 5, 5, 5, 15, and 15 dB, respectively, are 
impinging on the array with size M = 8 from the direction angles (θ,φ ) equal to (85o, 40o), (35o, 
200o), (30o, 120o), (55o, 65o), and (50o, 160o), respectively. Let the desired signals be the first three 
with ci =1, i = 1, 2, 3, and the others be the interferers with ci =0, i = 4, 5. The steering angle errors 
for the desired signals are set to (Δθi,Δφ i) = (10o,10o) for i = 1, 2, 3. Figure 2 depicts the output 
SINR versus the power of the desired signals with the interferers’ powers fixed at 15 dB and the 
number of data snapshots equal to 20000. Figure 3 plots the output SINR versus the number of data 
snapshots. The results of using the variable loading (VL) method of [5] are also shown for 
comparison. We observe that the proposed method can effectively cope with the performance 
degradation. Finally, we illustrate how sensitive the array performance is with respect to the value 
of κ. Figures 4 and 5 show the array output SINR and the required number of iterations versus κ, 
respectively. We note that the proposed method provides array performance with robust capabilities 
that is not very sensitive to the choice of κ for log10(κ) ≦ －1.5. The required number of iterations 
also holds steadily for log10(κ) ≦ －1.5.” 
-5 -4 -3 -2 -1 0 1
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
log10(κ)
O
ut
pu
t S
IN
R
 in
 d
B
 
Figure 4. The output SINR versus the relative weight for the Example. 
 
-5 -4 -3 -2 -1 0 1
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
7000
8000
9000
log10(κ)
N
um
be
r 
of
 It
er
at
io
ns
 
Figure 5. Number of Iterations versus the relative weight for the Example. 
 
2. “Synchronization Approach for Audio Authentication Watermarking” 
3. “Robust Audio Watermarking Using Time and Frequency Hopping” 
4. “Subsampling-based Image Watermarking in Compressed DCT Domain” 
5. “A New Audio Watermarking Algorithm using Errors in Variables” 
6. “Improved Chaos based Spread Spectrum Image Steganography” 
 
下午第十議程, 其主題為“COMPUTER VISION, CODING AND DECODING” , 共有 8 篇大會
論文發表:  
1. “A Particle Filter Approach to Learning Partial Shape Correspondences” 
2. “Numerical Aspects of Stochastic Resonant Detectors” 
3. “A New Face Recognition System using Eigenfaces and Neural Network” 
4. “An Efficient Face Image Retrieval through DCT Features” 
5. “Face and Lip Localization in Unconstrained Imagery” 
6. “A Delta Sigma Modulator Design Technique using a Hybrid Genetic Algorithm” 
7. “Application of the LLL Algorithm in Sphere Decoding” 
8. “Tour into the Picture Simplified (TIPS) – 3D Walkthrough from Single Image using Cuboid 
Mesh” 
 
第十一議程, 其主題為“DETECTION, IDENTIFICATION AND ESTIMATION II” , 共有 9 篇
大會論文發表: 
1. “Performance Analysis for DOA Estimation using the Prime Algorithm” 
2. “Evaluation of the Integrated Ornstein-Uhlenbeck Process in Application to Ship Track 
Estimation” 
3. “Aerosol Optical Depth Spatial Variation as Sensed by a Sunphotometer and Compared to a 
Fixed Aeronet Station” 
4. “Efficient Vehicle Tracking and Classification for an Automated Traffic Surveillance System” 
5. “An Enhanced Joint Time-Scale and TDOA Estimator for Geolocation of Electromagnetic 
Transmitters” 
