 2
behavior under high frequency operation. 
Finally, we evaluate the feasibility of this 
technique during IC manufacture process.  
 
Keywords: low-k dielectric, X-ray, e-beam, 
direct pattern 
 
二、緣由與目的 
 
As the complexity of function of the 
integrated circuit increases, the space between 
metal line and metal line become more narrow 
and longer. The phenomenon will cause the 
serious RC time delay, then reduce the 
operation speed of whole integrated circuit. In 
order to conquer the problem, the Cu metal 
and low k materials are utilized to replace the 
traditional Al metal and SiO2 in 
semiconductor technology to enhance the IC 
performance. However, for defining device 
pattern in general IC manufacture process, we 
will utilize photoresist to define it. But the 
low-k dielectric will be degraded during the 
photoresist removal process. Furthermore, 
with the decrease of the structure size, the 
removal of PR is more and more difficult, 
resulting in the big challenge for pattern 
transfer step. To overcome this issue, we 
propose X-ray and e-beam exposure to direct 
pattern the low-k dielectric in this study. In 
addition, as the low-k dielectric is integrated 
with Cu, the dielectric properties will be 
demoted due to Cu diffusing into low-k 
materials. 
 
三、實驗流程 
 
The MSZ precursor solution diluted by its 
solvent propylene glycol monomethyl ether 
acetate (PGMEA) spin on Si wafer at 2000 
rmp for 30 sec. After baking at 150 ℃ and 
280 oC on a hot plate for 3 min, the films were 
transferred to a Leica Weprint200 stepper to 
carry out a curing process. The e-beam energy 
was 40 KeV with beam size of 20 nm. The 
doses of e-beam exposure were chosen with 
100 to 800 uC/cm2. Furthermore, the 
precursor solution of the porous organosilicate 
glass (POSG) diluted with MIBK were spun 
on Si wafers at the first-stage spin rate of 450 
rpm for 4 s and the second 3000 rpm for 30 s, 
respectively. As-spun wafers were baked at 
100 oC on a hot plate for 1 min. The resulting 
wafers were exposed blanketly by a Leica 
Weprint200 e-beam stepper with doses 
ranging from 2 uC/cm2 to 820 uC /cm2. The 
exposure doses of e-beam irradiation could be 
determined according to material and 
electrical analyses. As for the pattern 
formation of MSZ and POSG lines, as-baked 
MSZ and POSG films were irradiated with 
e-beam according to desire pattern layout. We 
observed the exposed pattern by scanning 
electron microscope (SEM) image to 
demonstrate the feasibility of e-beam direct 
patterning on MSZ and POSG films. The 
chemical structures of all aforementioned 
samples were characterized by Fourier 
transform infrared (FTIR Bio-Red QS300) 
spectroscopy. Electrical measurements were 
conducted on metal insulator semiconductor 
(MIS) capacitors. The dielectric constant 
measurements were conducted using a 
Keithley Model 82 CV meter. The area of the 
gate electrode was 0.00503 cm2 for C-V 
analysis. The leakage current (I-V) 
characteristics were measured using a HP4156 
electrical meter. 
 
四、結果與討論 
 
     E-beam lithography process for the 
fabrication of damascene structure is shown in 
Figure 1. Figure 2 shows the leakage current 
of e-beam exposed MSZ film as compared to 
 4
used a mixed solution containing 2.38 wt% 
tetramethylammonium hydroxide (TMAH) 
and methanol with the ratio of 1: 8 to develop 
the pattern, and the result is shown in Figure 9. 
Although the well contract of the pattern was 
not observed after development, it is clear that 
the e-beam direct patterning process can be 
achieved on POSG films. In addition, 
additional study is required to perfect the 
patterning resolution, but it is believed that 
this can be fine-tuned by varying the e-beam 
exposure dose and developed condition. In 
addition, after the development process of 
e-beam direct patterning for POSG films, an 
interesting phenomenon was found in the 
variation of dielectric characteristics of 
e-beam exposed POSG films. Therefore, we 
further investigated the possible mechanism 
by material and electrical analyses. Figure 10 
presents the FTIR spectra of POSG films with 
e-beam exposure and followed by 
development and post-thermal annealing 
treatments. The FTIR spectra reveal that the 
functional groups (such as cage-like 
(~1144cm-1) and network-like (~1049cm-1) 
bonds of post-developed POSG films were 
weaker than that of as e-beam exposed POSG 
films. This implies that the uncrosslinked 
methyl-silsesquioxane matrix in films will be 
carried away by developer. Besides, the 
intensity of network-like peak was strong than 
that of cage-like peak in post-developed 
POSG film as compared to that of as e-beam 
exposed POSG film. This indicates that the 
e-beam exposure on as-baked POSG film only 
partially crosslink the methyl-silsesquioxane 
matrix into three-dimensional network 
structure. Once underwent the development 
process, the portion of uncrosslinked 
mono-polymer will be dissolved by developer 
used in this study. However, the crosslinked 
network structure of e-beam exposed POSG 
was carried away only a little during the 
development process. As a result, the 
network-like peak signal was stronger than the 
cage-like peak in the FTIR spectra of e-beam 
exposed POSG after development process. 
After subjected to thermal annealing at 
furnace, the residual uncrosslinked 
mono-polymer will be crosslinked and some 
remained developer solvent will be desorbed. 
Therefore, the intensity of network-like peak 
was larger than that of cage-like one after 
thermal annealing process. The 
above-mentioned reaction mechanism is 
illustrated in Figure 11. According to above 
analyses, we suggest that the porosity of 
e-beam exposed POSG film after development 
and thermal annealing processes will be 
higher than that as-cured POSG film. This 
mechanism can also be approved by electrical 
measurement. Figure 12 shows the leakage 
current density of e-beam exposed POSG 
films with 8 uC /cm2 after underwent various 
treatments. The leakage current of e-beam 
exposed POSG film after development 
process was larger 2 to 3 order of magnitude 
than that of as e-beam exposed POSG films as 
measured at 1 MV /cm. Nevertheless, the 
leakage current of as developed POSG films 
can be recovered to that of as-cured POSG 
film through thermal annealing process. This 
implies that a number of leakage paths were 
generated during the development process due 
to that the portion of uncrosslinked material 
was carried away and replaced by the 
development solvent. After the thermal 
annealing process, the residual development 
solvent will be desorbed and the perfect 
network structure of POSG will be finished. 
Therefore, the leakage current of as-developed 
POSG can be recovered to similar to that of 
 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 The leakage current of e-beam 
exposed MSZ is compared to that of 
traditional furnace cured one. 
Wavenumber (cm-1)
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000
A
bs
or
ba
nc
e 
(a
.u
.)
Furnace Curing
E100
E200
E300
E400
E500
E600
E700
E800
Si-C
Si-O "network"
Si-CH3
C-H
Figure 3 The FTIR spectra of e-beam exposed 
MSZ with different doses after thermal 
annealing. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                (a) 
 
                 (b) 
Figure 4 Dielectric properties of e-beam 
exposed MSZ with different doses after 
thermal annealing (a) leakage current density 
of MSZ films versus electric field (b) 
variation in dielectric constant of MSZ films 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
