2行政院國家科學委員會個別型計畫期末成果報告
計畫編號：96-2212-E-002-210-MY3
執行期限：98 年 8 月 1 日至 99 年 7 月 31 日
主持人：馬劍清 國立台灣大學機械工程學系
計畫參與人員：黃國祥、莊國志、汪政緯、廖恆增
一、中文摘要
光纖光柵所製成的感測器具有多點同時量測的能力，而目前以光譜儀分析的解調方
式只能做到靜態量測，因此對於快速變化動態反應的量測須設計不同的解調方式。本研
計劃為三年期計劃，旨在建立光纖光柵在動態及暫態的量測系統，並以此感測系統應用
於結構抑振問題的探討，最後以即時多點的量測能力應用於塊材波傳三維暫態位移的同
步量測。在本計畫中將使用雷射都卜勒振動儀與光纖光柵感測系統的量測結果作即時比
較以確定研究成果的可行性與正確性。
第一年的研究計畫將建立一套高靈敏度之光纖光柵位移感測器與相應之解調系
統，研究其於低、中及高頻之動態位移訊號量測能力，並設計能量測面內運動之光纖光
柵位移感測器。第二年將積層式壓電致動器驅動之懸臂樑，搭配雷射都卜勒振動儀討論
系統的抑振問題，驗証所設計的光纖光柵位移感測系統之暫態感測能力。同時將傳統之
壓電陶瓷平板分別當做懸臂樑振動之致動器。而在第三年(本年度)的研究計畫中將以鋼
珠撞擊塊材之暫態波傳實驗來研究本系統在三維多點之同步量測能力。綜上所述，本三
年研究計畫旨在建立高靈敏度之光纖光柵多點之動態及時量測系統，而這一方面的研究
亦是目前國內外有關光纖光柵研究上的重大突破。
二、英文摘要
Grating-based fiber sensors are capable of simultaneously detecting responses of
multi-point. Nowadays, the available fiber sensor demodulating system is based on optical
spectrum analyzer in which only static response can be measured. To achieve the multi-point
dynamic response measuring ability, different demodulation method must be provided. The
main objective of this three years-project is to establish a fiber-based multi-point dynamic and
transient detection system. Laser Doppler vibrometer will be used in this project to verify the
results obtained from grating-based fiber.
The first year will be focused on improving the sensitivity and SNR of the fiber sensor
dynamic demodulation system. In the second year we will use a multilayer piezoelectric
actuator as well as a traditional piezoelectric plate to actuate the cantilever beam and study the
vibration suppression problem using the proposed fiber Bragg grating displacement sensor to
應用光纖光柵感測器於三維動態波傳量測的研究(3/3)
Dynamic Three-dimensional Measurements of Transient Wave
Propagation Using Grating-based Fiber Sensor
4sensor is verified by a strain gauge in this study.
Many grating-based intensity modulation methods such as techniques based on the FBG
filter, tilted fiber Bragg grating, chirped fiber grating, and long-period fiber grating have been
investigated to demodulate the responses of the FBG sensors [7-10]. Among them,
grating-based intensity demodulation technique using the FBG filter provides the highest
sensitivity and that using the long-period fiber grating (LPFG) provides the largest dynamic
sensing range. Both of them can offer excellent dynamic demodulation ability.
In this study, we establish a multidimensional FBG displacement and strain sensing
system containing one out-of-plane, two in-plane FBG displacement sensors, and two FBG
strain sensors. To demodulate the displacement as well as strain responses, intensity
demodulation techniques based on fiber gratings such as long-period fiber grating (LPFG)
filters and FBG filters are used together in the fiber sensing system to obtain larger dynamic
sensing range and higher sensitivity, respectively. The multidimensional sensing ability of the
proposed all-fiber sensing system is investigated by measuring wave propagation in an
aluminum solid induced by vertical or later impacts of the steel balls.
To verify the measurement ability of the out-of-plane FBG displacement sensor, a laser
Doppler vibrometer (LDV) is used simultaneously to compare the measurement results
obtained by the FBG sensor. LDV can provide a precise non-contact out-of-plane point-wise
measurement on the surface of the specimen and has an extremely wide signal bandwidth up
to 20 MHz as well as an ultra-high resolution in the order of nanometers. Therefore the LDV
system is used to compare the results obtained from the out-of-plane FBG displacement
sensor. The dynamic in-plane measurement ability of the proposed sensing system is
demonstrated by setting up two geometrically orthogonal in-plane FBG sensors to measure
the in-plane wave propagation simultaneously.
In addition to verification of the sensing system in time-domain, resonant frequencies of
the aluminum solid obtained from different sensors are compared. The resonant frequencies
are determined from the fast Fourier transform (FFT) of transient time-domain responses.
Parts of the mode shapes obtained by the finite-element method (FEM) are also discussed to
verify the proposed sensing system from the frequency-domain.
This paper is organized as follows. In the next section, we will provide the sensing
principle of FBG sensor and demodulation system. We will also demonstrate setup method of
the FBG displacement sensor and FBG strain sensor. Section III is the experimental setup.
Finally, the experimental results and discussion are reported in section IV.
II. FBG SENSING PRINCIPLE
A fiber Bragg grating (FBG) is a periodic perturbation of the refractive index along the
fiber core which can be fabricated by a phase-mask technique.According to Bragg’s law, the 
6In Eq. (7), DCI is the DC component of the light source given by
S S
DC ,4 ln 2
P R
I 
  (8)
PI is transmittance light intensity given by
F S F S
P 2 2
F S
,
4 ln 2
P R R
I 
 
 


(9)
and nor is a normalized wavelength mismatch defined as
nor 2 2
F S
2 ln 2
( ) , 
 


(10)
where S F S0 SF          is the wavelength mismatch. Thus the variation of
intensity I will depend on the wavelength mismatch. If we only consider the transmittance
component of the light intensity, i.e., P nor
2' expI I    , the dependence of the
normalized light intensity nor P'/I I I on nor is illustrated in Fig. 1. From Fig. 1 we can
see that if f of the FBG filter attached to a translation stage is adjusted to the left of s
before the measurement, the PD output electrical signal will increase as the FBG sensor is
elongated and decrease as the FBG sensor is compressed. Under small applied dynamic strain,
the response of the FBG sensor is linear and the wavelength-to-intensity conversion factor K
depending on the operation point can be derived from Eq. (7) as
nor
P nor nor
2
( )
2 exp .
dI
K
d
I

 

   
(11)
The normalized scale factor nor P/ 2K K I is also shown in Fig. 1. The maximum
wavelength-to-intensity conversion factor nor,maxK can be obtained by setting
nor nor/ ( ) 0dK d   . The normalized wavelength mismatch at nor,maxK is 1/ 2 which
indicates that an optimal operation point of  is
2 2
F S
OPT S0 S,OPT .8ln 2F
         (12)
If the optimal operation condition, i.e., OPT , is matched, maximized PD output will be
obtained. The meet of the optimal operation condition in Fig. 1 is a method to calibrate the
FBG sensor before the experiment. An optical spectrum analyzer (OSA) can be employed to
monitor the optimal operation condition.
Although the spectrum of an LPFG is not approximated by a Gaussian function, the
8The schematic diagram of the all-fiber displacement sensing system is shown in Fig. 2. A
broadband source (BBS) with a wavelength ranging from 1520 to 1570 nm is transmitted to
an isolator, which can prevent the light from reflecting back to the light source. Then the light
is coupled by a 1 3 splitter and divided into three paths. Each light beam enters
corresponding LPFG or FBG filters (FBG filters 1, 2, and LPFG filter) to have transmittance
spectrum. Each filter is attached to a translation stage so that the dip transmittance of the filter
can be adjusted to meet the optimal demodulation condition. Finally three light beams are
coupled to corresponding directional circulators and is reflected back to the corresponding
photodetectors (PDA10CS, InGaAs amplified detector, Thorlabs, Inc) on the output channel
by the FBG sensors, including one out-of-plane FBG displacement sensor and two in-plane
FBG displacement sensors. The detecting electrical signals are recorded by an oscilloscope
(LeCroy 64Xs). The original Bragg wavelengths of the FBG sensors as well as the LPFG
filter and FBG filters are depicted in Fig. 2. All the FBG grating lengths are 10 mm.
The proposed FBG displacement sensing system is employed to measure the transient
elastic wave propagation in an aluminum solid (made of 6061-T6). To simulate the
traction-free boundary, the aluminum solid is loosely placed on top of four silicon rubber pads.
The dimension of the solid and sensing locations of the FBG displacement sensors, LDV, and
strain sensors are shown in Fig. 3. Three displacement FBG sensors (i.e., one out-of-plane
displacement sensor (FBG1), and two in-plane displacement sensors (FBG2 and FBG3)) are
employed to detect the wave propagation at the same point on the surface of the aluminum
solid. Three FBG displacement sensors are set up to detect particle movements in three
orthogonal directions. Two two-ended surface-mounted FBG strain sensors (i.e., FBG4 and
FBG5) are also mounted orthogonal to each other. A strain gauge is mounted near and parallel
the FBG4 strain sensor. The sensing locations of FBG displacement sensor, LDV, and FBG
strain sensors are designed to be symmetric to the geometrical center of the top surface of the
solid. The thickness of the solid is 6.65 mm. Elastic transient waves are generated by a steel
ball impacted vertically from a height onto point A, B, or D (as shown in Fig. 3) on the top
surface or impacted laterally to the side face of the solid (point C as shown in Fig. 3).
IV. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
First we demonstrate that the proposed out-of-plane FBG displacement sensor (i.e.,
FBG1) using the LPFG as a demodulator has the dynamic measurement ability to detect
out-of-plane motions of the solid. Then we will demonstrate the dynamic sensing ability of
the proposed in-plane FBG sensors (i.e., FBG2 and FBG3). After investigating the
performance of these two kinds of sensors (i.e., out-of-plane and in-plane) individually,
multidimensional measurements will be performed.
The out-of-plane transient displacement responses measured by the proposed FBG
10
verify the dynamic sensing ability of the in-plane FBG sensors. Figure 8 demonstrates
dynamic responses of the in-plane FBG displacement sensors after a 3/8 in. steel ball has
impacted at the location B (as shown in Fig. 3). It should be noted that when we perform this
experiment the FBG strain sensors (i.e, FBG4 and FBG 5 as shown in Fig. 3) are not bonded
on the surface of the solid yet. The responses of the FBG in-plane displacement sensors are
normalized for comparison. In Fig. 8 we can see that the low frequency contents of the two
sensors seem to be identical. Higher frequency contents of each in-plane FBG displacement
sensors look like noises at first glance. However, before further zooming in on the responses
to clearly investigate, we can see that the characteristics of the transient responses (for
example, each response where an arrow points out as shown in Fig. 8) look similar. Fig. 9
focuses on the waveforms within 5 ms. Due to geometric symmetry, the responses of two
orthogonal in-plane displacement responses should be identical theoretically. Since the
responses obtained from FBG2 and FBG3 in Fig. 9 are nearly the same as prediction,
excellent in-plane measurement ability of the proposed FBG sensing system is now also
verified. From Fig. 9 we can also see that signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of the proposed FBG
sensing system is excellent. Similar to experiments for the out-of-plane FBG1 displacement
sensor, we impact the steel ball again and the repeatability of the experiments is demonstrated
in Fig. 10.
Since the dynamic out-of-plane as well as in-plane measurement ability of the FBG
sensors are already demonstrated, we now perform multidimensional measurement
simultaneously using four sensors (i. e., FBG1, FBG2, FBG3, and LDV). Figure 11 shows
parts of the first wave group of the multidimensional displacement responses of the solid after
a 3/16 in. steel ball has impacted at location A. Again we can see that the out-of-plane
response obtained from FBG1 agrees well with that obtained from LDV. Since impact
location A is not on the diagonal line, responses for in-plane FBG2 and FBG3 look different.
Also, since light source has been divided to three paths, SNR is poorer than the previous
experiment for the in-plane FBG displacement sensors. We further overlap the responses
obtained from FBG1 in Figs. 11 and 4 and the result is shown in Fig.12. From Fig. 12 we can
see that division of light will not distort the responses of the FBG sensors. In fact, the
transient response presented in Fig. 11 coincides with Fig. 4 very well. This fact can also
verify the multiplexing sensing ability of the FBG sensor system which has been stressed in
many researches.
Figure 13 shows parts of the first wave group of the multidimensional displacement
responses of the solid after a 3/16 in. steel ball has impacted at location B. Since impact
location B is on the diagonal line, responses for in-plane FBG2 and FBG3 look similar in Fig.
13. We further overlap the responses obtained from FBG2 in Figs. 13 and 9 and the result is
shown in Fig.14. From Fig. 14 we can see that the multiplexing sensing ability of FBG
sensors and the repeatability of the experiments are again demonstrated.
The frequency spectrum constructed from taking the fast Fourier transform (FFT) of the
12
We next perform lateral impact experiments to demonstrate the in-plane displacement
responses obtained from FBG2 in-plane sensor. Figure 17 shows the transient responses
obtained from FBG2 after a 1/4 in. steel ball has impacted the solid laterally three times at
location C (as shown in Fig. 3). Repeatability is again demonstrated. Since impact direction is
now parallel to the axial direction of FBG2, responses obtained from FBG 2 has excellent
SNRs and they look much different that those responses when impact is vertically to the solid.
Finally we demonstrate the dynamic sensing ability of the proposed two-ended
surface-bonded FBG strain sensors. A strain gauge (i.e., SG1) is bonded parallel and near to
the FBG4 for comparison (as shown in Fig. 3). A 1/2 in. steel ball is dropped at location D to
generate larger impacts. Fig. 18 shows parts of the first wave group of the dynamic strain
responses. The responses of the FBG strain sensors are also normalized for comparison.
Comparing the results of FBG4 and SG1, the dynamic sensing ability of the two-ended
surface-bonded FBG strain sensor is verified. Since location D is also on the diagonal line of
the solid, responses obtained from FBG4 and FBG5 are also supposed to be identical
theoretically due to geometrical symmetry. This is verified from Fig. 18.
V. CONCLUSIONS
In this study, a multidimensional FBG displacement and strain sensing system is
proposed. We investigate its transient measurement ability by measuring the dynamic
responses of a solid impacted by steel balls vertically and laterally. The out-of-plane
point-wise transient responses are measured by an FBG displacement sensor and LDV
simultaneously and excellent agreement between these two measurements is obtained. The
measurement ability for in-plane motions is also demonstrated. The resonant frequencies
determined from the frequency spectrum obtained from taking the fast Fourier transform of
the transient responses obtained by all displacement sensors agree well between one another.
The resonant frequencies also agree well with the relationship between the impact locations,
sensing locations, and the nodal line of the mode shapes predicted by FEM computations. The
experimental results show that the proposed FBG displacement and strain sensor system is
capable of performing real-time measurement of three dimensional displacement and strain of
transient elastic wave propagation.
14
Fig. 1. Dependence of normalized light intensity and normalized scale factor on the
normalized wavelength mismatch.
Fig. 2. Experimental setup of the multidimensional FBG displacement sensor system.
16
Fig. 5. Transient out-of-plane displacement responses of the solid within 30 ms.
Fig. 6. Repeatability of the out-of-plane FBG1 displacement sensor.
18
Fig. 9. Transient in-plane displacement responses of the solid within 5 ms.
Fig. 10. Repeatability of the in-plane FBG2 displacement sensor.
20
Fig. 13. Transient multidimensional displacement responses of the solid for the impact
location at B.
Fig. 14. Comparison of the responses of in-plane FBG2 displacement sensor.
22
Fig. 17. Repeatability of the in-plane FBG2 displacement sensor (lateral impact at location C).
Fig. 18. Transient strain responses of the solid for the impact location at D.
 
 
圖二 台大機械所王富正副教授、馬劍清教授與張敬源同學 (由左至右)合影 
二、與會心得 
本人在此會議所發表的論文題目為“An Instrument Designed for Tilt and Decenter 
Measurements of Lenses Produced on Production Line”。由於模造玻璃與塑膠射出之光學元件
於製造過程中因材料冷卻時不均勻收縮，使鏡片第一曲面光軸與第二曲面光軸產生傾斜(tilt)
與偏心(decenter)誤差，而降低鏡片之成像品質。光學元件之檢測方式可概略區分為接觸式與
非接觸式檢測，其中接觸式檢測方法以 Taylor Hobson 公司生產之 Talysurf PGI 2540 與
Panasonic 公司生產 UA3P 為檢測主流，檢測原理為使用單點探針對待測試片進行輪廓掃描。
而非接觸式檢測機台以 Trioptics 公司生產之 OptiCentric®為偏心與傾斜檢測標準，其檢測原
理為應用準直光通中空試片載台，同時以精密平台轉動待測試片並檢測其焦點動態偏差。本
論文應用極化光學搭配影像處理技巧提出一新式檢測方法，依據理論分析建立檢測函數
(Inspection Function)並應用於光學透鏡片之製造誤差檢測。相較於現有檢測儀器與技術，本
論文所提出之檢測方法具有影像處理之高速檢測特性，可應用於高產能之塑膠射出與玻璃模
造線上檢測，同時本論文亦依照此檢測方法實際製作檢測儀器並對 HOYA® 鏡片進行偏差量
測，本儀器可應用於高產能之塑膠射出與模造玻璃線上檢測。其中美國亞利桑納大學 R. 
Chipman 教授(OSA fellow, SPIE fellow)與中央大學李正中教授 (OSA fellow, SPIE fellow)對本
研究提出幾點問題與建議，令本人獲益良多，同時感謝此次國科會資助參加此次學術會議。
二年後（2012 年）下一屆的舉辦地點已確定於俄羅斯的聖彼得堡舉行。 
 
本次大會由於與會學者的研究領域相近，故現場的討論十分熱烈，縱使到了大會的最後
一天每個場次仍有不少學者與會。而會場外亦有不少學者與久不相見的朋友聊天或討論一些
研究課題，此次能由國科會資助參加此次學術盛會獲益良多，唯在目前國內已有相當多的相
關學者專家，希望下屆的會議能有更多的國內學者參加。 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
已發表於 IEEE Journal of Lightwave Technology. 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
有發展成高精度動態量測系統之可能性 
