reliability transmission when the DTN is congested. 
英文關鍵詞： Delay tolerant network (DTN), Multi-Custodians 
Distributed Storage, congestion control mechanism 
 
 2 
Jian-Wei Lin, “A Novel Query Tree 
Protocol with Bit Tracking in RFID 
Tag Identification,” accepted by IEEE 
Transactions on Mobile Computing. 
(SCI, IF=2.376) 
l Yi-Hsuan Yeh, Yuan-Cheng Lai, Yen-
Hung Chen, and Ching-Neng Lai, “A 
Bandwidth Allocation Algorithm with 
Channel Quality and QoS Aware for 
IEEE 802.16 Base Stations,” accepted 
by International Journal of 
Communication Systems. (SCI, 
IF=0.229) 
l  
已接受會議論文二篇： 
l Yuan-Cheng Lai, Yen-Hung Chen, 
and Ching-Neng Lai “A Channel 
Quality Aware Algorithm for IEEE 
802.16 Uplink Burst Construction,” 
IEEE 26th International Conference 
on Advanced Information 
Networking and Applications 
(AINA), Fukuoka, Japan, March 
2012. (EI) 
 
l Yi-HsuanYeh, Yuan-Cheng Lai, Chun-
Kai Chuang, Jen-Wen Ding and Ching-
Neng Lai, ” A Data Delivery 
Mechanism for P2P Streaming Using 
H.264/SVC,” 2012 4th International 
Conference on Information 
Management and Engineering (ICIME 
2012)  (EI) 
 
 
PDF 檔案使用 "pdfFactory Pro" 試用版本建立 www.ahasoft.com.tw/FinePrint
 4 
amounts of bundles are dropped, transmission bottle-neck appears and the performance of network degrades 
seriously. The aforementioned descriptions are called congestion DTN. The congestion control is a major area of 
study in computer networking, but it has been explored much less extensively in DTNs, with only a few papers 
having been published.  
It is hard to design a DTN congestion control mechanism because the custodians in DTN are mobility, the 
end-to-end paths are not remained long enough to complete a bundle transfer. DTN can not adopt the traditional 
Internet congestion mechanism, such as TCP congestion control. Because TCP congestion control mechanism is 
based on an end-to-end connection path and the acknowledge information can be transmitted to the sending 
custodian timely. These requirements can not be guaranteed in DTN.  
There are some researches proposed to mitigate the congested situation of DTN, these researches are 
classified into flow control and congestion control. The flow control is focus on the transmission traffic of 
network capability and limits the data transmission rate of the sending custodian not to exceed that of the 
receiving custodians, the correlative researches for flow control of DTN are described in [4][5]. Besides, the 
congestion control mechanisms can be summarized into initiative methods and passive methods [6]. The passive 
methods mostly based on access control [7][8] and the initiative methods adopt custody transfer and storage 
resources management [9]-[13] to relieve the congestion DTN. 
These proposed methods of congestion control can alleviate the congestion status of DTN effectively, but 
the reliability transmission during the congestion period is not proposed in these researches. Because DTN 
attempts to provide a reliability transmission service, thus the congestion control mechanism based on dropping 
bundles is not a well choice. In this paper, we propose a Multi-Custodians Distributed Storage (MCDS) based 
for the DTN congestion control mechanism. MCDS is according to the available storage resources of neighbor 
custodians, connection probability and Round Trip Time (RTT) between neighbor custodians and the congestion 
custodian to select the neighbor custodians for the operation of congestion control. These neighbor custodians 
are used to store the duplications of the migration bundle which will be removed from the congestion custodian 
for releasing the storage resources. And when the problem of congestion is solved, the previous congestion 
custodian has more chances to retrieve the duplicated bundles from these nearby neighbor custodians. The 
MCDS solves the problem of congestion DTN and increases the opportunities for successful retrieving the 
duplications of migration bundles, effective improve the performance of reliability transmission in DTN. 
This paper is organized as follows: Section 2 introduces the present congestion control mechanisms of 
traditional Internet and DTN. Section 3 thoroughly illustrates the principles behind and the operations of MCDS. 
The simulation results and efficiency estimation of different congestion control mechanisms that are including 
the single custodian distributed storage (SCDS) and MCDS are presented in section 4. Finally, Section 5 
contains our conclusion.  
2. Background 
2.1 Internet congestion control mechanism  
In the traditional Internet there is a minutely connection path between the sending end 
and receiving end. When the network comes into being congested, the congestion control 
PDF 檔案使用 "pdfFactory Pro" 試用版本建立 www.ahasoft.com.tw/FinePrint
 6 
Initiative methods are based on custody transfer and storage resources management, operations of these 
methods focus on determining which bundles should be migrated to which neighbor custodian and when to 
migrate it. The paper [9] proposes a concept that adds explicit application hints to the bundles. These hints are 
visible to each custodian, allowing the custodians according to the hints to cache content, act as distributed 
storage or perform application-specific forwarding. In [10][11], a set of algorithm to solve the problem of 
congestion DTN are proposed. The authors define a policy for bundle selection, and use a linear combination of 
the size of the available storage resources, link latency and link bandwidth as the evaluation metric for temporary 
storage custodian selection. When the congestion situation is mitigated, the retrieval process is opposite the 
previous operation that forwards bundle from congestion custodian to temporary storage custodian. In [12], the 
authors propose that the factors of the evaluation metric for temporary storage custodian selection should be 
assigned the weights which are according to the application of DTN. Besides, some custodians of DTN are noted 
as mal-behaving custodians that are reluctant to store and forward the bundles. In [13], the authors propose an 
incentive mechanism which the normal custodians are willing to store and forward bundles for other custodians 
including the mal-behaving one. When the mal-behaving custodians get the responses, they will increase their 
willing to serve other custodian when the network becomes congested. 
In spite of the congestion control mechanism of DTN based on distributed storage can moderate the 
congestion situation efficiently, but the reliability transmission can not be guaranteed, because these methods 
just selecting one custodian as the temporary storage. In general, the custodians of DTN are usual motional that 
causes the links volatile and intermittent disconnection. If the neighbor custodian which stores the migration 
bundles can not connect to the custodian that original owns these migration bundles, thus these migration 
bundles can not be retrieved when they are needed, even lost forever. Whether the migration bundle can be 
retrieved successfully, the key point is the connection probability between congestion custodian and the 
temporary storage custodian, the higher connection probability obtains more opportunities to retrieve migration 
bundle. In view of this problem, a total solution for alleviating the congestion DTN and improving the reliable 
transmission simultaneously is proposed in our method. 
3. Multi-Custodians Distributed Storage for congestion control 
mechanism of DTN 
The congestion DTN is meaning that the storage resources of custodians are exhausted, the successive 
bundles will be blocked or be dropped and the performance of network degrades seriously. The responsibility of 
the congestion control mechanism based on distributed storage is to remove the appropriate bundles to the 
adjacent custodians for releasing the storage resources. Once the problem of congestion is resolved, the previous 
congestion custodian should retrieve the migration bundles. The reliability transmission is an important 
characteristic of DTN, but it is hard to retain especially in the congestion DTN, such as, the migration bundle can 
not be retrieved because the movements of neighbor custodians are violent.  
Considering a total solution for simultaneous solving both sides of congestion control and improving the 
reliability transmission are the significant issues for DTN. In this paper we propose a congestion control 
mechanism for DTN which is based on multi-custodians distributed storage (MCDS). In order to describe 
conveniently, we define three kinds of custodians in the following contents, the sending custodian, receiving 
PDF 檔案使用 "pdfFactory Pro" 試用版本建立 www.ahasoft.com.tw/FinePrint
 8 
custodian, asks for transmitting the duplication of migration bundle back to the receiving custodian. When the 
receiving custodian receives the duplication, and then sends the remove duplication messages to those neighbors 
that store duplications of the retrieved migration bundle. When these neighbor custodians receive the remove 
duplication messages, the duplications of the retrieved migration bundle are dropped by the neighbor custodians. 
The formally illustrations of the modules of MCDS are described in the following subsections. 
 
Fig. 1. Operation Flow chart of receiving custodian. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. Operation Flow chart of neighbor custodian. 
3.1 ACIC module 
There are four important factors for MDCS to select the neighbor custodians: (1) the size of storage 
resources (SR), (2) the round trip time (RTT), (3) the degree of congestion (DC) and (4) the successful 
connective ratio (λ). These factors influence on the neighbor custodian selection significantly and the detail of 
selection method is described in subsection 3.3. The MCDS needs to collect the above information from the 
adjacent custodians by ACIC module. A self-define probe message is broadcasted to the adjacent custodians 
frequently, and the format of the probe message shows as the figure 3. The fields of the probe message are 
including (1) the sequence number of the probe message(SN), (2) the ID of source custodian (SID), (3) the ID of 
PDF 檔案使用 "pdfFactory Pro" 試用版本建立 www.ahasoft.com.tw/FinePrint
 10 
Np
Nakik
i =l                                                                      (2) 
k
i
k
i
k
i
'
1
'
8
7
8
1
lll +=+                                                                                                                    (3) 
 
The information of these factors is stored in the receiving custodians. They are presented as the form of 
sets in the follow-up contents for convenience, SR:{ 1iSR , 
2
iSR ,
3
iSR …
k
iSR }, RTT:{
1
iRTT , 
2
iRTT ,
3
iRTT …
k
iRTT }, DC:{
1
iDC , 
2
iDC ,
3
iDC …
k
iDC } and λ:{
1
il , 
2
il ,
3
il …
k
il }; these sets represent the 
information of ANCk when the kiACK  is received. The information of neighbor custodians no matter that is 
collected by the ACK probe message or calculated by the receiving custodian, they are recorded in the memory, 
MAP, of the receiving custodian. 
 
3.2 BM module 
The pseudo codes of BM module are shown in figure 4(b). The BM divides the storage resources into 
three parts: safety region, cushion region and hazard region. The ranges of the regions are adaptive adjusted to fit 
the status of network, based on the topology of DTN and the volume of bundles in the storage resources. If the 
volume of bundles is in the hazard region, it represents the storage resources oncoming exhausted. The 
appropriate migration bundles should be selected by MBS module and transmitted the duplications of the 
appropriate bundles to neighbor custodians for temporary storage. And then remove that appropriate bundles for 
releasing the congestion network. The detail of MBS is described in section 3.4. On the contrary, if the volume 
of bundles is in the safety region, the duplication of appropriate migration bundles could be retrieved from the 
neighbor custodians if it is necessary for the receiving custodian.  
Suppose the storage resources are just divided into hazard and safety regions, it is possible that the 
receiving custodian is caused the Ping-Pong Effect that makes MCDS keep migrating and retrieving bundles 
when the volume of bundles approaches to the critical point of the hazard region. For the aforementioned reason, 
designing a cushion region in the storage resources is necessary to avoid the Ping-Pong Effect. When the volume 
of bundles is in the cushion region, the RED algorithm is used to determine that the operation of receiving 
custodian is migration or retrieval. The ratio of bundles occupied storage resources is direct proportion to the 
probability of bundle migration; the higher ratio represents more chances for migrating bundle. The regions of 
storage sources are shown in figure 4. In figure4, N is the capacity of storage resources, A and B represent the 
critical point of safety region and hazard region respectively.  
 
 
Fig. 4. The state regions of storage resources. 
 
The MCDS adopts the custody transfer to migrate the bundles in the congestion DTN. In the operation of 
bundle migration, the receiving custodian requires keeping the migration bundle until at least one of the 
PDF 檔案使用 "pdfFactory Pro" 試用版本建立 www.ahasoft.com.tw/FinePrint
 12 
neighbor custodian is not the first choice for bundle migration. Thus, evaluating the degree of congestion of the 
neighbor custodian is essentiality. The DC is defined as the ratio that is the volumes of bundles occupied the 
hazard region, shown as Eq. (6). In Eq. (6), VoB  represents the volume of bundle in the storage resources. If the 
DC is a negative number that represents the status of the custodian is not on the verge of congestion, we will set 
zero as the number of DC. 
 
)//())/(( maxmax SRTTrSRTTrNVoBDC ×D×D--=                            (6) 
 
3.3 NCS module 
Basically, the selected neighbor custodians are used to store the duplicated migration bundles temporarily, 
hence, the adjacent custodians whose storage resources are enough for storing the migration bundle should be 
sieved out as the candidate neighbor custodians. Besides, in order to select the optimal neighbor custodians from 
these candidate custodians, the NCS uses a linear combination of exponential functions, as shown Eq. (7), to 
compute an evaluation value for the custodian selection. In this equation, the individual evaluation of each factor 
uses the exponential function. The adjustment of weights for each term in the evaluation equation is according to 
the characteristic of the exponential function. The exponential function can highlight the evaluation of the term if 
the index of the term is outstanding. The higher value of the individual exponential function affects the 
evaluation value EST significantly. For the sake of preventing a large gap between the weights of each term, the 
value of index of each term is limited between 0 and 1. The higher value of EST signifies the custodian has the 
higher potential become the neighbor custodian for the MCDS congestion control mechanism. 
)ln(
min
max C-1
k
i
k
i
k
i
k
i
eeeeEST RTT
RTT
DSR
SR
k
i
l+++=                                              (7) 
 
The differences between the exponential functions of Eq. (7) for evaluating the individual factor are the 
function of indexes. The DC is direct proportion to the degree of congestion, so the function of index for the 
exponential evaluation function is used 1- kiDE . The form of factor λ is opposite to DC, it indicates the degree of 
the robust connectivity between the custodians that direct proportion to the strength of the connections, therefore 
the function of index is used kil  directly. As regards the SSR and RTT, in order to keep the function of index 
between 0 and 1, the fraction from is used. The largest SR ( }max{SR=maxSR ) and the shortest RTT 
( }min{min RTT=RTT ) are selected as the references to assess the SSR and RTT of the adjacent custodians.   
Because DTN with the characteristic of delay tolerant, when the congestion status of receiving custodian 
is solved, it is not necessary retrieving the duplication of the migration bundle immediately. The duplicated 
bundle should be retrieved as long as during the appropriate period of time that is satisfied the requirement of 
DTN. Therefore, according to the probability density function (PDF) and the cumulative distribution function 
(CDF) of Poisson Distribute, such as Eqs. (8)(9), NCS can calculate the reliable connection probability of the 
neighbor custodians which can connect to the receiving custodian more than k times in the period of time T. 
)(
!
)()( T
mk
ik
i
k
ie
m
TmP ll -=                                                              (8) 
PDF 檔案使用 "pdfFactory Pro" 試用版本建立 www.ahasoft.com.tw/FinePrint
 14 
k
iRTT
Np
Naλ
k
ik
i =
;RTT
8
7RTT
8
1RTT ki'ki
k
1i
' +=+
;λ
8
7λ
8
1λ ki'ki
k
1i
' +=+
k
1i
'RTT + k 1i'λ +
k
iNa
k
iACK
SN;.Probeset i
;SID.Probeset i
DID;.Probeset i
S;.Probeset i
;Probebroadcast i
;MAPin  Probe store i
&& SN.ACKSN.Probe ( if kij ==
&& DID.ACKSID.Probe kij ==
) SID.ACKDID.Probe kij ==
{
}
rate;  variationdata=Dr
));RTTort(Max(quicksRTTmax =
;/max SRTTrNA ×D-=
;/)( max SRTTRTTrNB SR+×D-=
;bundle of lumecurrent vo=VoB
resources; storage ofcapacity N   =
bundle; a of sizeS =
);//())/(( maxmax SRTTrSRTTrNVoBDC ×D×D--=
MAP;in  DEC Store
(a)
(b)
PDF 檔案使用 "pdfFactory Pro" 試用版本建立 www.ahasoft.com.tw/FinePrint
 16 
Chap 4 Simulation results 
In order to demonstrate the MCDS not only releases congestion DTN status effectively but also keeps 
data reliability transmission during the network congestion period, a DTN simulation environment is constructed 
for evaluating the feasibility of MCDS for DTN. For the sake of considering most of the situations in DTN, four 
scenarios are proposed to satisfy the situations that are possible happened in DTN. These scenarios are the 
different simulation environment of (1) the number of neighbor custodians, (2) the size of storage resources of 
neighbor custodians, (3) the threshold ratio of reliable connection probability and (4) the moving rate of the 
neighbor custodians. In the following contents, firstly, the detail of the simulation environment is described in 
subsection 4.1, and then the simulation results and analysis are illustrated in the succeeding subsections. 
4.1 Environment setup 
The Network simulator II (NS-2) [15] is applied as the simulator for our simulation. We simulated 
MCDS as well as the other correspondence method – Single custodian distributed storage (SCDS) to evaluate 
their performance in transmitting FTP data source. In the simulation model, there is an assumption that all the 
custodians are with the same communication range (50m), and when every two custodians are in communication 
range, they can setup the connection, and stop transmitting bundles when they are out of communication range. 
According to the received bundles of the receiving custodian, two metrics, ‘‘goodput ratio” (GR) and ‘‘retrieved 
loss ratio” (RLR), were adopted to examine the efficiency of MCDS. The GR is a ratio between the amounts of 
received bundles and the total delivery time, this metric is used to evaluate the entirety performance of 
congestion control and bundles transmission of MCDS. The higher GR indicates a more satisfactory QoS. The 
RLR is a ratio between the amounts of successful retrieved duplicated bundles and the amounts of the migration 
bundles for congestion control.  
Why RLR is used to estimate the suitability of MCDS for DTN, the description is as follows. There are 
some reasons for the bundle loss when the network is congested: (1) no available neighbor custodian for 
migrating bundles, then the congestion custodian drops the bundles, (2) it is possible that when the congestion 
DTN is released, the previous congestion custodian can not retrieve the migration bundle, because the custodian 
with the migration bundle moves out of the communication range. In order to verify if MCDS is feasible to keep 
data reliability transmission in the congestion DTN, RLR is used to evaluate the retrieval ratio of the MCDS. 
Fig. 6 shows the network topology used in the simulation. The size of simulation area is mm 500500 ´ , 
the deployment of custodians is adopted the normal distribution and the communication range of each custodian 
is within a radius of 50m. The sending custodian uses FTP server as the data source, and the receiving custodian 
consumes the received bundle by the Constant Bit Rate (CBR). The time of simulation is 300 seconds.  
 
PDF 檔案使用 "pdfFactory Pro" 試用版本建立 www.ahasoft.com.tw/FinePrint
 18 
5 10 15 20 25 30
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
G
oo
dp
ut
 R
at
io
 GR(SCDS)
 GR(MCDS)
 RLR(SCDS)
 RLR(MCDS)
 R
et
rie
ve
d 
lo
ss
 ra
tio
Nunber of Neighbor custodians
 
Fig. 7. Performance versus number of neighbor custodians for different congestion control mechanism. 
4.3 Different storage resources size  
The congestion DTN usually results in the insufficient storage resources of the receiving custodian or the 
neighbor custodians. When the receiving custodian is congested, it needs migrating bundles for congestion 
control, the neighbor custodians not only should be in the communication range but also have enough storage 
resources. For observing the effect upon the DTN congestion control causing the size of storage resources of 
neighbor custodians, the simulation results are shown in Figure 8. In this simulation, we set up 15 neighbor 
custodians around the receiving custodian, the average movement rate and the threshold ratio of reliable 
connection probability are 0.05m/sec and 0.5 respectively.  
According to Figure 8, when the storage resources of neighbor custodians are small, the MCDS has 
worse GR and RLR and can not improve that of SCDS. In spite of the receiving custodian has more chances to 
contact with the neighbor custodians, but that is  helpless for releasing the congestion network because these 
neighbor custodians do not have available storage resources. When the size of storage resources of neighbor 
custodians is increased, the performance of congestion control of MCDS is superior to that of SCDS 
significantly. In this simulation results, the GR and RLR of SCDS are improved 10.6% and 36.8% by MCDS 
respectively. 
PDF 檔案使用 "pdfFactory Pro" 試用版本建立 www.ahasoft.com.tw/FinePrint
 20 
direct proportion to it. From Figure 9, we can observe that the GR and RLR of the MCDS keep steady state 
when the threshold value of reliable connection probability exceeds 50%. 
10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
0.225
0.250
0.275
0.300
0.325
0.350
0.375
0.400
0.425
0.450
0.475
0.500
0.525
0.550
0.600
0.625
0.650
0.675
0.700
0.725
0.750
0.775
0.800
0.825
0.850
 R
et
rie
ve
d 
lo
ss
 ra
tio
(%)
 GR(SNDS)
 GR(MNDS)
 RLR(SNDS)
 RLR(MNDS)G
oo
dp
ut
 R
at
io
 Threshold ratio of reliable connection probability
 
Fig. 9. Performance versus the threshold ratio of reliable connection probability for different congestion 
control mechanism. 
4.5 Different moving rate of neighbor custodians  
The velocity of the custodians changes the deployment of custodians in DTN, and the deployment of 
custodians affects the operation of congestion control. A simulation results for observing the relationship 
between the velocities of the custodians and the performance of congestion control in DTN are shown in Figure 
10. In this simulation, we set up 15 neighbor custodians around the receiving custodian, the threshold ratio of 
reliable connection probability and the storage resources size of each custodian are 0.5 and 500 bundles 
respectively.  
Because the initial deployment of neighbor custodians is adopted normal distribution, when the velocity 
of the custodians is low, the receiving custodian is easy to find the appropriate neighbor custodians for removing 
or retrieving the bundles. Figure 10 reveals that when the velocity of the custodians is low, the GR and RLR of 
MCDS and SCDS are similar and good because the receiving custodian can find the neighbor custodians for 
migrating and retrieving bundles easily in both congestion control methods. When the velocity of the custodians 
is increased, the deployment of custodians becomes unstable. Because the receiving custodian hard to fine the 
suitable neighbor custodian to excuse congestion control, so the performance of congestion control is decrease. 
But the MCDS has more opportunities than SCDS to complete the operation of congestion control, thus the 
simulation results of MCDS are better than that of SCDS. 
According to the simulation results, the GR and RLR of MCDS and SCDS are getting steady when the 
velocity of the custodians exceeds 0.07m/sec. It is possible that when the velocity of the custodians gets higher 
and exceeds a specific speed, then the deployment of custodians could appear the normal distribution again. 
When the deployment of the neighbor custodians becomes steady state, the receiving custodian has a probability 
PDF 檔案使用 "pdfFactory Pro" 試用版本建立 www.ahasoft.com.tw/FinePrint
 22 
Table 1. the summary of the simulation results 
 number of neighbor 
custodians 
storage resources 
size 
reliable connection 
probability 
custodians’ moving 
rate 
GR 13.8%  10.6%  11.3%  18.4%  
RLR 27.3% 36.8% 23.2% 27.4%  
 
The simulation results reveal that the MCDS is available for the DTN. In the present day, some kinds of 
network that are the extensions of the DTN, such as, Deep Space Networks (DSN), Vehicular Ad hoc Networks 
(VANET), Under Water Acoustic Sensor Networks (UW-ASN) and so on. The issues of congestion control are 
still remained in these special kinds of DTNs. In the future, we will focus on designing the congestion control 
mechanism for the DTN extensions, based on MCDS and the characteristics of data transmission in these 
specific DTN environments.  
 
References  
[1] L. Yin, Y. D. Cao, and W. He, “Similarity Degree-based Mobility Patten Aware 
Routing in DTNs, ” in Proc. IEEE IUCE, pp. 345-348, 2009. 
[2] J. R. Lesh, “The NASA program for optical deep-space communications at JPL,” in 
Proc. Advanced Methods for satellite and Deep Space communications, pp. 159-179, 
2007.  
[3] Y. Yang, Z. Xiaomin, P. Bo, and F. Yujing, “Design of sensor nodes in underwater 
sensor networks,” in Proc. ICIEA, pp. 3978-3982, 2009.  
[4] E. Coe and C. Raghavendra, “Token Based Congestion Control for DTNs,” 2010 IEEE 
Aerospace Conference, 2010. 
[5] F. De Rango, M. Tropea, G.B. Laratta, and S. Marano, “Hop-by-Hop Local Flow 
Control over InterPlaNetary Networks Based on DTN Architecture,” Communications, 
2008. ICC '08. IEEE International Conference on, pp. 1920-1924, May 2008. 
[6] K. Fall, “A Delay Tolerant Network Architecture for Challenged Internets,” ACM 
SIGCOMM, pp. 27-34. August 2003. 
[7] L. Yun, C. Xinjian, L. Qilie and Y. Xiaohu, “A Novel Congestion Control Strategy in 
Delay Tolerant Networks,” Future Networks, 2010. ICFN '10, Second International 
Conference on, pp. 233-237, 2010.    
[8] I. Bisio, M. Cello, T. de Cola, and M. Marchese, “Combined Congestion Control and 
Link Selection Strategies for Delay Tolerant Interplanetary Networks,” GLOBECOM'09 
Proceedings of the 28th IEEE conference on Global telecommunications, pp. 2384-2389, 
2009. 
[9] J. Ott and M. J. Pitkanen, “DTN-based Content Storage and Retrieval,” 2007 IEEE 
International Symposium on a World of Wireless, Mobile and Multimedia Networks, 
June 2007. 
PDF 檔案使用 "pdfFactory Pro" 試用版本建立 www.ahasoft.com.tw/FinePrint
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/11
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 改良Licklider傳輸協定以提升一般性耐延遲網路之傳輸效能
計畫主持人: 賴敬能
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-266-002- 學門領域: 計算機網路與網際網路
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
