中文摘要 
為了提供即時的群播服務給多樣化的移動裝置，調適性視訊編碼和適應性調變與編碼技術
是必然的趨勢。然而，隨著資料傳輸成長所帶來的新興應用服務，移動裝置的能源消耗是
一個關鍵性的挑戰。這個計畫關注在下世代行動無線網路下，調適性視訊編碼和適應性調
變與編碼技術的資源分配問題，以所有移動裝置在接收資料時的能源消耗最小化為目標。
我們證明了此問題是一個 NP-hard 的問題，並且提出了一個 2 倍的近似演算法。我們在模
擬中，將我們提出的演算法與最佳演算法和傳統的方法做比較，得到的模擬結果提供我們
更深入了解演算法的特點和效能。 
關鍵字：節能、調適性視訊群播、適應性調變與編碼技術、第四代無線網路 
 
Abstract 
Scalable video coding with adaptive modulation and coding is a promising technique to provide 
real-time multicast services for heterogeneous mobile devices. Nevertheless, as the rapid growth 
of data communication for emerging applications, energy consumption is a critical challenge of 
mobile devices. This project targets the problem of resource allocation for scalable video 
multicast with adaptive modulation-coding schemes in next generation cellular wireless networks, 
with an objective to minimize the total energy consumption of all mobile devices for reception. 
We show the NP-hardness of the target problem and propose a 2-approximation algorithm. 
Extensive simulations are conducted to compare the proposed algorithm with a brute-force 
optimal algorithm and a conventional approach, which provides some useful insights into 
power-aware scalable video multicast in 4G wireless systems.  
Keywords: Energy efficiency, scalable video multicast, adaptive modulation and coding, 4G 
wireless systems 
 
1. Introduction 
With the popularity of mobile devices and online multimedia applications, such as live video 
streaming, the provision of real-time multicast services is specified in next generation cellular 
wireless systems, such as WiMAX [5] and LTE [1]. In a multicast system, multiple users may 
desire to access the same video streaming, and the base station providing the video content can 
adaptively change modulation-coding schemes based on the channel conditions at the users. In 
order to provide the users with different video quality, scalable video coding (SVC) [3], which 
divides a raw video into multiple layers, is a promising technique employed to accommodate users 
having different quality requirements or channel conditions. One essential challenging issue in the 
SVC and were designed for systems without adaptive modulation and coding, which has been 
employed in nearly all wireless networks.  
In this project, we consider the power-aware scalable video multicast problem with adaptive 
modulation and coding in 4G wireless systems. The objective is to minimize the total energy 
consumption of all mobile devices for the reception of OFDM symbols, provided the video quality 
required by every user is satisfied. The contributions of this project start with the fundamental but 
negative result on the NP-hardness of the target problem. We then propose a two-stage greedy 
algorithm for the problem and prove that the greedy strategy leads to an approximation ratio of 2, in 
the sense that it always derives a feasible resource allocation such that the total energy consumption 
of all mobile devices for reception is no more than twice that of any feasible allocation. For 
performance evaluation, we used real video sequences encoded with SVC [3] and conducted 
extensive simulations with parameters set based on IEEE 802.16m [5]. The algorithm was 
compared with an optimal algorithm (with exhaustive search) and a conventional approach revised 
based on that in [9] to provide more useful insights into power-aware scalable video multicast.   
 
2. System Model and Problem Formulation 
2.1 System Model 
All next generation cellular wireless systems employ orthogonal frequency division multiple 
access (OFDMA) based multi-carrier technology. An OFDMA frame consists of symbols in the 
time domain and subchannels in the frequency domain, as shown in Figure 1. A symbol and 
subchannel combination, referred to as a tile, is the minimum allocable unit that can be individually 
modulated and coded. In a multicast system, the available tiles in a frame are shared by multiple 
video groups (and other non-real-time application services [4]), and users requesting the same 
video simply join the corresponding group. Consequently, the users in a multicast group may 
experience different channel conditions because of the distances to the base station or other factors. 
In both WiMAX and LTE, the base station is allowed to adaptively change modulation-coding 
schemes (modulation for short) based on the channel conditions at the users. A user with good 
channel conditions (e.g., when it is close to the base station) can potentially receive the video with 
a higher-rate modulation (such as 64-QAM) or, certainly, with lower-rate ones (such as QPSK). 
Contrarily, a user must receive the video with a lower-rate modulation (for tolerating the bit error 
rate) when faced with poor channel conditions. Because users shall report the information on their 
channel conditions (such as signal-to-noise ratios) when requesting multicast services, the base 
station is aware of the channel conditions of every user and able to determine the modulation for 
each video. Note that the same amount of video data with a lower-rate modulation needs more tiles 
users with different quality requirements. In allocation 1, users U1, U2, U3, and U4 need to 
consume energy for receiving one, three, three, and three symbols, respectively, so as to receive the 
video data requested. In allocation 2, each user only needs to receive one or two symbols. As the 
result, allocation 2 is considered 2 times more energy efficient than allocation 1.  
 
2.2. Problem Formulation 
In this project, we are interested in the minimization of the total energy consumption for video 
reception, provided the minimum quality requirement of every user is satisfied. For the sake of 
brevity, we shall omit "׊" when there is no ambiguity in the context. The system model under 
consideration can be formulated as follows.  
An OFDMA frame consists of S ·C tiles, where S and C are the numbers of symbols and 
subchannels, respectively. The possible modulations are denoted by m = 1, 2, ..., M, where a lager 
index indicates a higher-rate modulation. A user is called an m-modulation user if modulation m is 
the highest modulation that can be received by the user. There are G multicast groups. For each 
group g, there are Ng users, ܰ௠
௚  users of which are m-modulation users. Note that ∑ ܰ௠
௚ெ
௠ୀଵ ൌ ܰ௚. 
Every user could have its minimum data rate requirement (i.e., the video quality it requires), but the 
m-modulation users in group g must receive the same video layers, so we assume, for the simplicity 
of presentation, they have the same data rate requirement ܴ௠
௚ . The video of group g is split into Lg 
layers, and each layer ℓ is of data rate ߣሺ௚,ℓሻ. Let γm be the data rate provided by a single tile with 
modulation m. Then, the layer ℓ needs tiles if it is transmitted with modulation 
m. We use ߯ሺ௠,௦,௖ሻ
ሺ௚,ℓሻ  as an indicator function that is 1 if layer l of group g is selected to transmitted 
with modulation m in the tile combined by symbol s and subchannel c, and 0 otherwise. In other 
words, the indicator function denotes whether a user needs to receive the video data carried in a 
specific tile. To ease the notation, we use ߯௠
ሺ௚,ℓሻ to represent , which is 1 if layer 
ℓ of group g is selected to transmit with modulation m, and 0 otherwise. Note that an m-modulation 
user can also receive modulation m′ if m′ ≤ m. Therefore, the data rate received by an m-modulation 
user in group g can be represented as , and ߬௠
௚  ≥ ߬௠ᇱ
௚  if m > m′. An 
allocation is feasible if it satisfies the following constraints:  
Resource constraint: The first two constraints are respectively to ensure that, for each 
subchannel, the allocated tiles cannot exceed the available symbols, and for each symbol, the 
allocated tiles cannot exceed the available subchannels.  
  
(1)
 
Table 1: Summary of Main Notations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Power-Aware Scalable Video Multicast 
In this section, we show the NP-hardness of the power-aware scalable video multicast problem and 
propose a 2-approximation algorithm which always derives a feasible resource allocation such that 
the energy consumption for reception is no more than twice that of any feasible allocation.  
3.1 Problem Hardness 
Before our solution to the target problem, we first show its NP-hardness by a reduction from the 
partition problem, which is known to be NP-complete [10].  
Theorem 1 The power-aware scalable video multicast problem is NP-hard.  
Proof. The input to the partition problem is a set of n integers, A={a1, a2, ..., an}. The output is 
YES if and only if A can be partitioned into two subsets Z and A \Z that have the same sum, i.e., 
.  
Given an instance 〈A〉of the partition problem, we show how to construct, in polynomial 
time, an instance〈S, C, M, G, Lg, ܰ௠௚ , γm, ߣሺ௚,ℓሻ, ܴ௠௚〉of our problem such that A can evenly be 
partitioned if and only if there exists a resource allocation with the total energy consumption no 
more than n. The construction procedure is as follows: The available symbols and subchannels 
are respectively set as S = 2 and . There is only one modulation (i.e., M=1). Let us 
consider n groups (i.e., G=n), each of which consists of one single user (i.e., ܰ௠
௚=1,∀ m=1, 1 ≤ 
g ≤ n). Every group g requests a video encoded into one layer (i.e., Lg = 1, ∀ 1 ≤ g ≤ n) of a data 
rate ag (i.e., ߣሺ௚,ℓሻ=ag, ∀ ℓ = 1, 1 ≤ g ≤ n), and the data rate provided by a single tile with the 
modulation is set as γm=1, ∀ m=1. Thus, the layer of group g needs ag tiles to carry (i.e., ݐ௠ሺ௚,ℓሻ 
ෝ݉-modulation users, we incrementally select video layers to transmit with modulation ෝ݉  until the 
data rate requirement of the users is satisfied (Lines 6-8). We then select video layers from the 
remainder to transmit with modulation ෝ݉+1 to satisfy the ( ෝ݉+1)-modulation users, and so on 
(Line 5). Note that, in this way, if  ܴ௠ෝ ା௜
௚  ≤ ܴ௠ෝ
௚  for any i > 0, then ( ෝ݉+i)-modulation users can be 
satisfied with ߬௠ෝ
௚ , and no video layer is selected to transmit with modulation ෝ݉+i by our algorithm.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In Stage 2, as shown in Lines 9-23, we start to allocate tiles to the video layers selected in Stage 
1. An indicator function ߯ሺ௠,௦,௖ሻ
ሺ௚,ℓሻ  is used to indicate if layer ℓ of group g selected to transmit with 
modulation m is carried in the tile indexed by symbol s and subchannel c, and is initialized as 0, ׊ g, 
m, ℓ, s, c (Line 9). A variable Ԅ initialized as 0 is used to count the current number of allocated tiles 
(Line 10). If layer ℓ of group g is selected to transmit with modulation m (Lines 11-13), then it 
requires ݐ௠
ሺ௚,ℓሻ tiles to carry (Line 14). If the to-be-allocated tiles are more than the available, then 
we return no feasible solution (Lines 15-16), else we allocate appropriate tiles to the video layer 
(Lines 17-22). In order to minimize the energy consumption for reception, the data of a layer 
should be carried in as few symbols as possible. Therefore, we simply allocate ݐ௠
ሺ௚,ℓሻ continuous 
tiles (starting from the first empty tile of the current symbol) to the layer, and the counterparts of the 
indicator function are set as 1 accordingly. Note that if a symbol is fully occupied, then the tiles 
required for the rest of the layer are allocated from the next symbol. At the end of the algorithm, we 
return the indicator function ߯ሺ௠,௦,௖ሻ
ሺ௚,ℓሻ  (Line 23). 
 
3.2.2 Properties 
For the rest of this section, we analyze the time complexity of Algorithm 1 and prove that it is a 
2-approximation algorithm for the power-aware scalable video multicast problem.  
Lemma 1 The time complexity of Algorithm 1 is O(GMܮ෠SC), where .  
On the other hand, let ߚ௠
כ௚ denote the number of symbols that the user needs to receive in an 
optimal solution. We have proved in Lemma 2 that ߩ௠
௚  is the minimum number of tiles required 
by this user, provided all the user are satisfied. ߩ௠
௚  tiles must be associated with at least ඃߩ௠
௚ /ܥඇ 
symbols, in the sense that  
 
 
 (8)
 
By comparing (7) with (8), we reach a conclusion that  
 
 
 (9)
 
Now we compute the total energy consumption of all users for reception in the solution ߯ሺ௠,௦,௖ሻ
ሺ௚,ℓሻ  
derived by Algorithm 1.  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
4. Performance Evaluation 
4.1 Simulation Setups 
This section developed a simulation model by C++ programs to verify the proposed algorithm, 
denoted as 2-APP, in comparison with two algorithms. The first one is a brute-force algorithm, 
denoted as OPT, which derived optimal solutions. The other is a conventional approach revised 
based on that in [9], denoted as CONV, which did not consider power saving. It first ran the stage 1 
of our algorithm to select video layers and their corresponding modulations. Then it randomly 
allocated resources to the layers with uniform distribution.  
We conducted extensive simulations with parameters set based on the IEEE 802.16m system 
description document for a 10MHz spectrum in 3.5 GHz range [5]. The number of available 
symbols was set as 50, and that of available subchannels varied from 5 to 15. We considered one 
base station with a number of groups varied from 1 to 20. Each group consisted of 10 to 20 users. 
Each user randomly placed with uniform distribution in the coverage area of the base station with 
distance between 350 to 1000 meters [11] and required a data rate. We assume that users with better 
channel conditions always required higher data rates. Each group randomly selected a video 
we can see, the number of received symbols decreases as the number of subchannels increases, 
when 2-APP or OPT is adopted as the algorithm for resource allocation. The reason for the 
phenomenon is that a symbol of more subchannels can provide more data rates and the two 
algorithms attempt to minimize the number of symbols any user needs to receive. Contrarily, the 
number of available subchannels has no significant impact on the performance of CONV, because 
it allocates radio resource without the consideration of energy consumption but with uniform 
distribution. The results show that OPT is 1.34 times more energy efficient than 2-APP, and 2-APP 
is 4 times than CONV, when there are 8 multicat groups. We observed that the capability of 2-APP 
is more prominent when there are more possibilities of resource allocation.  
Figure 4 shows the impacts of channel conditions on the symbols and data rates received at 
users. As can be seen in Figure 4(b), users with better channel conditions require higher data rates 
in our simulation setting, so m-modulation users need to receive more symbols and consume more 
energy than m′-modulation users if m > m′, as shown in Figure 4(a). The results show that OPT 
outperforms 2-APP in terms of energy efficiency by 1.39 times, and 2-APP outperforms CONV by 
3.9 times, when there are 20 groups and 10 subchannels. It is worth noticing that the capability of 
2-APP is more prominent when users are with better channel conditions and require higher video 
quality, as shown in Figure 4(a).  
 
 
5. Conclusion 
This project studies the resource allocation problem for scalable video multicast with adaptive 
modulation and coding in 4G wireless systems. The objective is to minimize the total energy 
consumption of all mobile devices for reception, provided the video quality required by all the 
users are satisfied. We first show the NP-hardness of target problem. Then we propose a two-stage 
greedy algorithm that is proved to be of an approximation ratio of 2. The simulation results show 
that the proposed algorithm is very effective in the reduction of energy consumption, compared 
with a conventional approach, and can efficiently obtain a feasible solution, compared to an 
optimal algorithm with brute-force search. Its capability is even more prominent when networks 
are of larger scale or users demand higher video quality.  
 
The research outcome has been presented in IEEE Globecom 2010, and its extended version is 
under major revision of IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing. 
- Y. J. Yu, P. C. Hsiu, A. C. Pang, and C. P. Lai, “Power-Aware Scalable Video Multicast in 
4G Wireless Systems,” IEEE Global Communications Conference (GLOBECOM), Dec. 2010 
1754-1759, 2007.  
[16] Y. Xiao. "Energy Saving Mechanism in the IEEE 802.16e Wireless MAN". IEEE 
Communications Letters, 9(7):595-597, July 2005. 
99年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：逄愛君 計畫編號：99-2628-E-002-002- 
計畫名稱：第四代無線中繼系統之分層式視訊群播服務 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 9 9 100%  
博士生 5 5 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 0% 
研究成果目前正
在 IEEE 
Transactions on 
Mobile Computing
進 行 Major 
Revision。 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
研究發表至 IEEE 
Globecom 2010 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
