 1
一、 中、英文摘要及關鍵詞(keywords) 
 
此研究運用去氧核醣核酸(DNA)為原料，探討以不同界面活性劑將DNA改質後，對材料各
種光電性質的影響，以及DNA衍生材料於光電元件的應用。研究內容包括：1)新型DNA材料
的電性研究。由研究結果發現，使用不同界面活性劑，可以調整DNA的導電度，因此可有效
提高DNA衍生材料在光電元件上的應用層面。2)以此材料作為雷射增益介質。當染料摻雜於以
DNA衍生材料製備的光學薄膜中，可明顯觀察到其具有放大自發輻射(amplified spontaneous 
emission) 特性，是以可進一步發展其於雷射上的應用。3)以壓印技術製作DNA微奈米結構。
微奈米圖形可藉奈米壓印技術轉印至DNA衍生材料上，開啟DNA材料製程於壓印平台上的研
究方向。 
 
關鍵字：有機光電, 生物高分子, 有機雷射, 奈米壓印 
 
 
Abstract 
In this study, different types of surfactants were utilized to modify natural DNA molecules for 
new types of DNA biopolymers, and the electrical and optical characteristics were investigated. The 
results indicate that 1) the electrical property of DNA biopolymer was improved compared to the 
previous reported DNA biopolymer by using different type of surfactants, 2) amplified spontaneous 
emission was observed in dye-doped DNA biopolymers, in which the materials show promises for 
laser applications, and 3) patterns in micro and nanoscale on DNA biopolymers were obtained using 
imprint lithography that shows the potential to fabricate DNA-based nanostructures and nanodevices 
on imprint platform. 
 
Keywords: polymer photonics, biopolymer, organic laser, nanoimprint 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3
films were performed by optically pumped from a frequency-doubled 532nm Nd:YAG laser 
(Spectra-Physics) with a pulse width of 6ns and a repetition rate of 10Hz. Light emitted from the 
edge of the film was collected by a fiber-coupled spectrometer. The optical gain of the material was 
obtained by the variable-stripe-length technique, in which the output intensity I() detected from the 
end of the stripe was recorded as a function of  the pumping stripe length L following equation 
)(/)1()( )(0   geAII Lg   where A is a constant related to the cross section of spontaneous emission, 
I0 is the pumping  intensity, g() is the net gain coefficient, and L is the length of the pumping stripe. 
The detailed procedures and results are described in Appendix II. 
 
DNA biopolymer micro and nanopatterns fabricated by nanoimprint lithography 
Nanoimprint was carried out on a Nanonex NX-2000. PVA was utilized as resist and DNA biopolyer 
and PVA were spin coated on subtrate in sequence. Si molds with micro or nano feature size are 
applied for nanoimprint. After imrpint was completed, oxygen plasma etching was performed to etch 
away residue PVA. The detailed procedures and results are described in Appendix III.   
 
四、結果與討論 
 The results can be summarized as follows: (I) the electrical property of DNA biopolymer can be 
tuned by properly adjusting the surfactant type and amount. This feature can advance the usage of 
DNA biopolymer in the implementation of optoelectronic devices. (II) Dye-doped DNA biopolymers 
exhibit amplified spontaneous emission and different surfactants affect the optical gain and ASE 
wavelength. (III) DNA biopolymer patterned by nanoimprint can be performed using PVA as resist 
along with oxygen plasma etching. Structures with micro and nanometer feature sizes were 
fabricated and it demonstrates the potential to manufacture DNA biopolymer nanostructures using 
nanoimprint lithography towards high throughput and low cost fabrication.  
 
五、計畫成果自評 
 The goal of this research is to investigate the potential of DNA biopolymers in photonics 
applications. The materials were explored in many aspects, including the material properties as well 
as manufacture techniques. Our work expands the horizon of DNA biopolymer in optoelectronic 
implementation and our research results have been accepted to be presented in international 
conference, which increases the international visibility of our work in DNA photonics society. 
Furthermore, relevant research has initiated international collaboration with research institute in 
Germany that potentially stimulates more international research efforts towards DNA photonics and 
promotes academic exchange. 
 
  
                  
(a)                                                                             (b) 
Fig. 2. AFM images of DNA-surfactant thin films (a) DNA-CTMA (b) DNA-VBTMA 
 
VBTMA were prepared the same way. Both DNA and surfactant solutions were added together and a 1:1 
stoichiometric combination led to the spontaneous formation of the DNA-surfactant complexes. Complexes 
were collected by centrifuge, washed with distilled water and then either dried in vacuum or dissolved directly in 
organic solvents. Before spin-coated on various substrates, DNA-surfactant complexes solutions were filtered by 
syringe filter. Soft-baking was performed on a hot plate and the morphology of the thin film was investigated by 
scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and atomic force microscopy (AFM) as shown in Fig. 1 and Fig. 2. These 
images suggest that DNA-surfactant complex can form uniform thin films with a surface roughness within 
nanometers. The thicknesses of films are in the range of a few hundreds of nanometers. 
EXPERIMENT 
For electrical resistivity measurement, the organic thin films were loaded in thermal evaporator for 
electrode deposition. Silver electrodes were thermally deposited onto the organic layer with a thickness of 80nm 
using a pattern mask. The samples were encapsulated and then removed from the glove box. The sheet 
resistance can be determined by measuring the impedance between parallel contacts [5]. The current-voltage (I-
V) characteristics were measured using a Keithley B1500A semiconductor device analyzer at room temperature 
and the dc conductivity of the biopolymer materials were retrieved by the following relation [6]: 
                                                                    σ = b/R*d*a                              (1) 
here b is the distance between the two electrodes, R is the resistance of the material, d is the thickness of the 
organic thin film and a is the length of the electrode.  
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
Fig. 3 shows the measured conductivities of different DNA-surfactant materials. Experiment has been 
repeated with the same fabrication configuration in order to dilute the environmental influence on the materials 
and measurement. Although the conductivities still deviate by one order of magnitude for the same material 
from batch to batch, implying the sensitive nature of such measurement, a tendency can still be observed from 
the results. Fig. 3(a) shows that the conductivities of DNA-BTMA and DNA-VBTMA are larger than that of 
DNA. The conductivity of DNA-CTMA was estimated to be lower than 10-6, which is beyond the measurable 
range of the setup and is not shown in the figure. It is noticed that the conductivities presented in this work are 
in general higher than the previous measurements in the literature [7], which is believed to be resulted from the 
fabrication condition and environmental influence. Optimization of experimental configuration is currently 
under progress. 
Since materials with surfactants show higher conductivities than DNA, the effect of surfactant 
concentration on the material resistivity was investigated. Various amount of surfactant BTMA was added for 
DNA complex synthesis. Samples with stoichiometric ratio (DNA:BTMA) of 1:1, 1:3, 1:5, 1:7, and 1:10 were 
prepared and the coductivities were measured, as shown in Fig 3(b). It is observed that the conductivity of the 
DNA complex increases with a larger amount of surfactant, which implies a correlation between the 
concentration of surfactant and material conductivity. Part of the 1:5 sample solution was on purpose treated 
with a longer centrifuge process to decrease the concentration of surfactant. This is denoted as <5X in the figure 
and a lower conductivity was indeed observed in this case. Possible mechanism may be explained by the fact 
that additional unbound surfactants in the material cause the molecules certain degree extrusion. Therefore, the 
double helix with pi-pi stacking, along with the aromatic rings contributed from surfactants surrounding DNA, 
forms a tunnel suitable for carrier transportation. Another possible mechanism may be explained by extra ionic 
molecules in the materials. For DNA with the presence of unbound surfactant cations, the conductivity is 
increased partly due to the ion states being localized in the large pi-pi energy gap [8]. The charge transport may  
 
Amplified Spontaneous Emission from Dye-doped DNA Biopolymers 
 
Chien-Hsiang Lien, Che-Hsuan Su, and Yu-Chueh Hung* 
 
Institute of Photonics Technologies, National Tsing-Hua University, HsinChu 300, Taiwan 
* ychung@ee.nthu.edu.tw, NSC98-2221-E-007-023 
 
Abstract --- Fluorescence enhancement has been observed in dye-doped DNA biopolymer due to the 
unique intercalation properties derived from the double helix structure of DNA molecules. In this report, we 
present the fabrication of dye-doped optical thin films based on DNA biopolymer blended with new types of 
surfactants. The photoluminescence, amplified spontaneous emission (ASE), as well as optical gain of the novel 
biopolymer materials were characterized. Results show that the surfactant may play an important role in the 
luminescence process and lower threshold can be achieved with different types of surfactants. It demonstrates 
the flexibility in biopolymer manipulation which may pave the way toward manufacture of highly efficient 
organic photonic devices. 
Keywords: Biopolymer, organic laser, amplified spontaneous emission 
INTRODUCTION 
Organic materials have attractive a lot of attention in the past decades. DNA, as one kind of biopolymers, 
has been shown to come with some distinctive features with its unique double helix structure that are attractive 
for photonic applications. Previous research has exhibited the high potential of DNA as a novel material for 
optoelectronic devices, including organic light-emitting devices [1], nanofiber [2], OFET [3], etc.. Particularly, 
fluorescence enhancement has been repeatedly reported in dye-doped DNA complexes when compared to 
conventional polymer host such as PMMA. This is believed to result from the uniqueness of nature DNA 
molecules, where dyes can intercalate or bind to the helix structures, that reduces aggregation of dyes at high 
concentration. This effect can be utilized to luminescence applications, such as lasers and light emitting devices. 
Previous work has predominantly used cetyltrimethylammonium chloride (CTMA) for forming DNA complexes. 
In this work, we present DNA complexes based on different surfactants, i.e. vinylbenzyltrimethylammonium 
chloride (VBTMA) and benzyltrimethylammonium chloride (BTMA). The amplified spontaneous emission 
properties and optical gain were characterized based on these dye-doped DNA complexes. .    
SAMPLE PREPARATION AND EXPERIMENTAL METHODS  
DNA purchased from Sigma Aldrich (MW=1.6x106) was dissolved in distilled water and aqueous solutions 
of surfactants were prepared the same way. Both DNA and surfactant solutions were added together and a 1:1 
stoichiometric combination led to the spontaneous formation of the DNA-surfactant complexes. A detailed 
material processing procedure is referred elsewhere [4]. The synthesis complexes were characterized by IR 
spectroscopy. Fig.1 shows the IR spectra of DNA, BTMA, and DNA-BTMA measured by a PerkinElmer 
Spectrum 100. The absorption peaks of DNA and surfactant BTMA were shown in the IR spectra of the 
complex, which implies the success synthesis of the DNA complex. Similar characterization was also carried out 
for other DNA complexes. Fig.2(a) shows the optical properties of the synthesized DNA-complex. Below 
300nm the complex shows absorption from both DNA and BTMA, whereas high transmission is observed as 
shown in Fig. 2(b) in the full visible regime and NIR, which is an advantageous feature for DNA biopolymer as 
a host material.  
  
1 0 0 0 1 5 0 0 2 0 0 0 2 5 0 0 3 0 0 0 3 5 0 0
0 .7 0
0 .7 5
0 .8 0
0 .8 5
0 .9 0
0 .9 5
1 .0 0
1 .0 5
1 .1 0
tra
ns
m
itt
an
ce
 (a
rb
.)
w a v e  n u m b e r  (1 /c m )
 D N A - B T M A
 B T M A
 D N A
 
Figure 1. FTIR spectra of DNA, surfactant, and DNA-surfactant complex 
Appendix II 
400 450 500 550 600 650 700
0
2000
4000
6000
8000
10000
12000
14000
16000
18000
wavelength (nm)
A
bs
or
pt
io
n 
(a
rb
.)
0
2000
4000
6000
8000
10000
12000
DNA-VBTMA
R6G 1wt%
 Absorption
 ASE spectrum
intensity (arb.)
541
616
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
0
2000
4000
6000
8000
10000
12000
 DNA-VBTMA
         R6G 1wt%
A
SE
 p
ea
k 
in
te
ns
ity
 (a
rb
.)
pump energy density (mJ/cm2)
0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6
0
5000
10000
15000
20000
25000
 DNA-VBTMA
        R6G 1wt%
AS
E
 p
ea
k 
in
te
ns
ity
 (a
rb
.)
pump length (cm)  
(a)                                                (b)                                                    (c) 
Figure 4. DNA-VBTMA doping with 1wt% of R6G, (a) absorption and ASE spectra, (b) ASE intensity 
v.s. pump intensity, (c) intensity at ASE wavelength v.s. pumping stripe length 
Similar characterization procedures were carried out on the DNA complexes modified by VBTMA and BTMA, 
as shown in Fig. 4. All samples were doped with 1wt% of R6G. For both materials, amplified spontaneous 
emission behavior can be obtained above a threshold pumping energy. The emission linewidth decreased from 
30nm to 8nm and from 33nm to 12nm for DNA-VBTMA and DNA-BTMA, respectively. The threshold and 
gain coefficient of DNA-VBTMA were determined to be 1.14 mJ/cm2 and 6.33cm-1. For DNA-BTMA, 
threshold and gain coefficient were 0.97 mJ/cm2 and 15.72cm-1. Compared to DNA-CTMA, DNA-VBTMA and 
DNA-BTMA have lower threshold and higher gain under the same excitation condition. Meanwhile, a red shift 
of 20nm of ASE wavelength was observed for both DNA-VBTMA and DNA-BTMA compared to DNA-CTMA. 
Since the CTMA is single chain aliphatic halide, and VBTMA and BTMA are aromatic ammonium halide, the 
results suggest that different surfactants play a crucial role in such dye-doped DNA materials. Recently, the role 
of the cationic surfactant in the interaction between rhodamine dye and DNA−surfactant molecules has been 
investigated and the results suggest that the interaction between surfactant and dyes may yield different 
fluorescence characteristics [6]. More investigations are in progress to clarify the interaction characteristics 
between dyes and DNA-surfactant complexes. It is expected that with optimized fabrication procedures and 
control over dye/surfactant combination, DNA based organic devices can be manufactured with enhanced 
performance and efficiency compared to conventional polymers.  
CONCLUSION 
In this report, we present the preparation of several dye-doped DNA biopolymer systems and the 
threshold and optical gain were characterized. Lower threshold and higher optical gain were obtained compared 
to the previous developed DNA complex materials. By optimizing the fabrication procedures and material 
selection, DNA biopolymer may pave the way toward highly efficient organic photonic devices. 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
The authors would like to acknowledge financial support from Nation Science Council. (NSC98-2221-E-
007-023). 
REFERENCES 
[1] J. A. Hagen, W. Li, A. J. Steckl, and J. G. Grote, Enhanced emission efficiency in organic light-emitting 
diodes using deoxyribonucleic acid complex as an electron blocking layer, Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 88,  
171109-1–171109-3, 2006. 
[2] Y. Ner, J. G. Grote, J. A. Stuart, and G. A. Sotzing, Enhanced fluorescence in electrospun dye-doped DNA 
nanofibers, Soft Matter, vol. 4,  pp. 1448-1453, 2008. 
[3] P. Stadler, K. Oppelt, T. Singh, J. G. Grote, R. Schwodiauer, S. Bauer, H. Piglmayer-Brezina, D. Bauerle, 
and N. S. Sariciftci, Organic field-effect transistors and memory elements using deoxyribonucleic acid 
(DNA) gate dielectric, Org. Electron., vol. 8, pp.648-654, 2007. 
[4] Y. C. Hung, et al, Preparation and characterization of DNA-aromatic surfactant complexes for 
optoelectronic applications, Proc. of SPIE, vol. 7935, 2011. 
[5] W. Lu, B. Zhong, and D. Ma, Amplified spontaneous emission and gain from optically pumped films of dye-
doped polymers, Appl. Optics, vol. 43, pp. 5074-5078, 2004.  
[6] H. You, H. Spaeth, V. N. L. Linhard, and A. J. Steckl, Role of surfactants in the interaction of dye 
molecules in natural DNA polymers,  Langmuir 25, 11698-11702, 2009. 
To perform nanoimprint on DNA biopolymer, 5wt% solution of DNA-CTMA was dissolved in butanol 
and was spun on the substrate and then baked at 120 °C for 2 h. PVA is well-known as a water-soluble polymer 
and was utilized here as resist [5].  4 wt % polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) aqueous solution was spun on the DNA-
CTMA layer. The sample was baked at 100 °C for 2 min on a hotplate. Silicon was applied as a mold material, 
which was fabricated by conventional electron beam lithography and by a dry etching process. Molds with 
micro and nano feature sizes were utilized for imprinting. Nanoimprint was carried out on a Nanonex NX-
2000.The sample were heated above the glass transition temperatures and the mold was pressed into the polymer 
at 400 psi, 100 °C. The mold and the substrate were then cooled down to room temperature and the mold was 
released. After the imprinter was retracted, a small amount of residual polymer remains at the bottom of the 
trenches. This can be removed by means of an oxygen plasma etch, with oxygen gas flow of 5 sccm, varied 
argon gas flow, and a power of 100 W for 120 s. DNA biopolymer nanopattern was obtained by rinsing the 
substrate in water, where PVA was removed as a water-soluble resist. 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
Nanoparticle formation in DNA biopolymer was first investigated by expsoing UV light to DNA solution 
blended with metal precusor and photoinitiator. The TEM images of the gold nanoparticle formed under various 
condition are shown in Fig. 1. As seen, rod-like or crystalline nanoparticles monodispersed in size can be 
obtained depending on different concentration of reactants, blending sequence, and UV exposure duration. 
Similar experiment was also performed to investigate the formation of nanoparticles in thin films. The solution 
was spin-coating on quartz at 4000rpm for 10 seconds and the thickness of the film is 400nm. Fig. 2(a) shows 
the thin films after different UV exposure time, in which a color gradient can be clearly observed. Fig.2(b) is the 
corresponding absorption spectra of the thin films. Absorption peak centered at 503nm clearly indicates the 
formation of nanoparticles in DNA biopolymer. This approach demonstrates that nanoparticles can be rapidly 
grown within DNA biopolymer. To ensure that the materials can sustain their properties by heating during 
nanoimprint process, samples were baked on a hotplate at 100 °C for 3min before UV irradiation. It was 
observed that there was no obvious difference in their absorption specta. 
                         
Figure 1.Rod-like and crystalline gold nanoparticles grow under 365nm UV exposure 
.      
(a)         (b) 
Figure 2. (a) Photos of films in different UV exposure time (b) the corresponding optical absorption spectra 
of the films 
Nanoimprint was carried out on DNA biopolymer with PVA as resist. Fig. 3(a)(b) are the SEM images of 
the samples taken after the molds were released from PVA layer. Thermal imprint was utilized to translate the 
pattern from mold to the PVA. As shown in the figure, the top surface of the resist was smooth but the sidewall 
and the corner were a bit distorted, which can be optimized by tuning the fabrication parameters. Fig. 3(c)(d) 
shows the patterned DNA biopolymer when the PVA was etched by an oxygen gas flow of 5 sccm and argon 
gas flow of 20 sccm. The optimized curing temperature and etching conditions are under investigation. 
350 400 450 500 550 600 650 700 750 800
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
 
 
ab
s.
 (a
rb
.)
wavelength (nm)
 UV 0min
 UV 1min
 UV 3min
 UV 5min
 UV 10min
 1
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                
 
Summary: 
SPIE photonics Europe is a conference focused on a wide variety of technologies 
and applications. In the four day agenda, we were especially interested in the latest 
advances in organic materials and organic optoelectronics. There were a few sessions 
about “materials and photonic enhanced materials”, in which the research emphasis is 
quite relevant to ours. Etienne Gaufres from Universite Paris Sud presented an 
approach to separate metallic nanotube and semiconducting nanotube by mixing 
nanotubes of both types into polyfluorene and the separation of different types can be 
obtained by centrifugation process. The removal of metallic nanotubes results in a 
photoluminescence enhancement of the nanotube-based thin film. The material was 
also utilized to fabricate FP cavity, where a factor of 180 was observed in PL property 
in comparison with a non-nanotube dispersed film. Separation of nanotubes has been 
a great concern and the reported method is an efficient approach. In fact, DNA and 
carbon nanotube has been reported as good combinations for several applications. For 
example, DNA-wrapped carbon nanotubes can serve as sensors in living cells. DNA 
can also be a template for carbon nanotube to be self-assembled for making devices 
such as field-effect transistor. Nanotube is also a great candidate to be blended with 
DNA host as a new material for photonic applications.  
Another presentation in this session was given by Prof. Chihaya Adachi from 
Kyushu University in Japan. Prof. Adachi is a prestigious scholar and he reported a 
計畫編號 NSC 98-2221-E-007-023 
計畫名稱 新型 DNA 生物高分子材料開發及光電元件上的應用(II) 
出國人員
姓名 洪毓玨 
服務機構
及職稱 清華大學光電工程研究所 
會議時間 
 99 年 4
月 12 日
至 
 99 年 4
月 15 日 
會議地點 
 
The Square Conference Ctr., 
Brussels, Belgium 
會議名稱 CLEO/Europe 2010 
 3
and mechanisms about organic materials and devices. The talk was aimed to give a 
general overview of organic photonics in academia and industry, therefore the 
discussion was introductory, yet very informative.  
   It was a great opportunity to attend such an event and got to access the latest 
developments in several fields. The experience was quite inspiring and the talks are 
informative. Participation of these international conferences is an efficient way to get 
to know the latest developments and hot topics going on worldwide. 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：洪毓玨 計畫編號：98-2221-E-007-023- 
計畫名稱：新型 DNA 生物高分子材料開發及光電元件上的應用(II) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 3 3 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 5 5 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
