多揀貨員之儲位指派研究 
A study of storage assignment in a multi-picker warehouse 
計畫編號：94-2213-E-011-038 
執行期限：94年8月1日至95年7月31日 
計畫主持人：潘昭賢  台灣科技大學  工業管理系 
 
 
中文摘要 
對於提昇倉儲管理的效率而言，揀貨
作業是最重要的關鍵因素。過去對於揀貨
作業的研究，大都只考量到單一揀貨員；
但在實際的倉儲系統中，通常都會有多個
揀貨員同時在同一區域內進行作業。這種
多人作業的倉儲系統，有可能會發生阻塞
的情況，所以僅使用行走時間或距離無法
評估揀貨的績效，必需加入人員的等候時
間，才能反映整體作業的效率。本研究視
揀貨模式為一個等候網路，同時考慮揀貨
人員的等候時間與行走時間，並提出一種
啟發式儲位指派法則，使得訂單平均完成
揀貨的時間為最小。本研究擬利用 3D 虛
擬 實 境  (VR) 物 件 導 向 模 擬 軟 體 
(Flexsim) 發展倉儲模式，以執行啟發式儲
位指派法則，並進行模擬測試，以比較所
提出啟發式法則的績效。 
 
關鍵詞：儲位指派、揀貨作業、倉儲管理、
多揀貨員 
 
 
Abstract 
Order picking is one of the most 
important factors for an efficient warehouse 
management. Most of previous research in 
order picking considered only single-picker 
operation; however, there are often multiple 
pickers concurrently working at the same 
region in a real warehouse system. Since 
congestion may occur in such a multi-picker 
system, waiting time must be taken into 
account together with travel time or travel 
distance in the evaluation of the efficiency 
for the picking operations.  
The purpose of this research is to study 
the effect of congestion on the order picking 
operations in a multi-picker warehouse 
where the picking follows the walk-and-pick 
method of order retrieval with sequential 
one-way travel. The picking model can be 
treated as a close tandem queueing network 
and this research subsequently develops a 
heuristic storage assignment policy by 
considering both the travel time and the 
waiting time simultaneously by minimizing 
the average time of order fulfillment. A 
simulation model is proposed and developed 
to implement the heuristic assignment 
storage policy using Flexsim software. 
Simulation results shows that the proposed 
heuristic policy outperforms the existing 
traditional storage assignment policies in 
such a multi-picker warehouse environment.  
 
  
Keywords: storage assignment policy, order 
picking, warehouse management, 
multi-picker operations 
 
 
1. Introduction 
Order picking is a major costly 
constituent of the warehouse operations. 
According to Coyle et al. [4], 50% to 75% 
of the total operating costs of a warehouse 
are attributed to order picking operation. 
Consequently, order picking has been one of 
the major study topics and most researches 
focus mainly on the development of travel 
time models or travel distance models for 
various assignment storage policies, picking 
routing and order batching. 
Storage assignment policy is to assign 
 2
2. MODEL STATEMENT AND 
SOLUTION METHODS 
2.1. Warehouse System and Assumptions  
Consider a wide-aisle and multiple 
pickers warehouse limited to a 
two-dimensional storage allocation. There 
are m aisles in the warehouse and all aisles 
are assumed to have an equal number of 
racks (k). The racks are numbered 
sequentially from 1 to km. Only one item 
type can be stored in a rack. It is further 
assumed that there are exactly the same 
numbers of racks as item types. Dummy 
items with no demand may be created to 
assure this relationship if there are less item 
types than racks. 
The Computer Assisted Picking System 
(CAPS) is installed in the warehouse. A 
picker obtains order data from the host 
computer in the input point and the host 
computer transfers this data to a 
light-module, and the picker then relies on 
the light-module to cull items. 
Light-modules are distributed to all aisle 
entrances and racks. The light-module of 
aisle entrance (LMA) indicates that a picker 
has to pick items within that aisle, while the 
light-module of rack (LMR) specifies that 
items must be picked on that rack. 
Consequently, the picker should only enter 
the aisle whose LMA is illuminating. On 
encountering an aisle whose LMA is not 
illuminating, the picker ignores it and move 
to the next aisle. 
There are finite buffers between the 
aisles. If a picker needs to enter an aisle that 
already occupied by another picker, then 
he/she has to wait in the buffer. Furthermore, 
it is assumed that the buffer in front of first 
aisle is infinite. All pickers can wait in this 
buffer until he can enter the first aisle.  
 
2.2.Operation Assumption and Order 
Attribution 
It is assumed that the routing policy is 
the sequential one-way travel. The 
transversal route is where a picker enters an 
aisle from one end and leaves from the other. 
This assumption is consistent with past 
research (Jarvis and McDowell, Ruben and 
Jacobs, Frazelle). A picker begins from the 
input point and proceeds through the aisle 
containing a product, entering only those 
aisles containing products on the order. 
Single order picker on a single tour of the 
facility picks the items in an order. 
Furthermore, with the platform on the right 
side of the warehouse, we assume that an 
order picker begins the tour at the input 
point and ends tour at the platform. Then, 
products are delivered by rider pallet truck, 
which are loaded at the platform. 
 
2.3.The Storage Assignment Heuristic 
The number of order pickers is limited 
in the warehouse. Each picker returns to 
input point after order completed and each 
picker should pick by order and not exceed 
the one in front of him/her. Therefore, a 
picking model can be treated as closed 
tandem queueing network, and each aisle as 
a server. The time a picker spends in one 
aisle is treated as the service time, which 
depends on the contents of the picking list. 
The queueing network analysis 
approach can formulate the waiting problem 
in storage assignment after a picking module 
is transferred as a queueing network module. 
The picker who already finished the service 
in a previous station can not enter another 
aisle if one station is full (and the previous 
aisle is therefore occupied by this picker). 
Consequently, the blocking decreases the 
efficiency of the system. 
As previously discussed, most of 
storage policies consider demand rate and 
required storage space. In this research, the 
storage assignment policy is assumed to be 
based on the demand rate and the storage 
space is ignored. Under this policy, Jarvis 
and McDowell [10] proposed a rule for 
optimal locating product such that the total 
distance traveled will be minimized. 
However, one factor not considered by their 
study was congestion. Collecting the most 
frequently picked items into a few aisles 
may increase congestion between order 
pickers. Thus, we must simultaneously 
consider waiting time and total distance 
traveled, so that average order finished time 
 4
policy is 26.71% when there is only one 
picker in the picking area. 
Figure 1 also shows that the heuristic 
outperforms the other two storage 
assignment policies under all levels of 
number of orders and pickers. Figure 2 
shows the mean order fulfillment time for 
the three storage policies under study based 
on various numbers of pickers. Although the 
mean order fulfillment time is short under 
all workforce level compared to the 
approximation method, the results of the 
simulation also indicate that the 
performance of heuristic remain the best 
under any workforce level. 
Further analysis of Figure 2 reveals that 
the average order fulfillment time does not 
decrease under the Jarvis and McDowell’s 
rule [10] if there are more than four pickers. 
Since the items of high demand rates are 
assigned on three specific aisles, the 
efficiency of order picking cannot be 
improved when there are more than four 
order pickers. Furthermore, due to the 
increased congestion level, the marginal 
productivity of additional order pickers will 
be much less and hence the labor costs need 
to be taken into consideration.  
 
 
Figure 1. The percentage of improvement of the heuristic policy over other assignment polices based on the 
number of pickers. 
 
Figure 2. The mean order fulfillment time for three storage policies based on the number of pickers 
 
4. Conclusions 
The purpose of this research is to 
develop a storage assignment policy such 
that the efficiency of order picking can be 
improved with the consideration of multiple 
pickers in warehouse. Most previous studies 
focused on the travel distance and attempt to 
reduce it. However, as more order pickers 
occupy a fixed storage space, congestion 
levels will increase. Thus, the waiting time 
caused by aisle blocking will significantly 
affect the picking process efficiency.  
Although the random storage policy 
generally utilizes the entire picking area 
more evenly and may reduce worker 
congestion, it could generate unnecessary 
travel distance. Moreover, the rule provided 
by Jarvis and McDowell [10] Jarvis can 
 6
