Optimizing the Cost and Duration for the High-Tech Industry Manufacturer Construction
Edward H. Wang, Ph.D., P.E., S.E.
Ming Hsin University of Science and Technology
No. 1 Hsin-Hsin Rd., Hsin-Fong, Hsin-Chu, Taiwan, R.O.C.
E-mail: ewang@must.edu.tw
Abstract
The aim of this paper is to provide a decision support system on the selection of construction
methods in the High-Tech Industry implementing life-cycle costing techniques. The main focus is
on the cost benefit of shortening the construction duration by using the precast concrete
construction method for the fast growing High-Tech industry. A precast construction building
costs 25 to 50% more than a cast-in-place construction in average. However, the construction
duration of a precast construction is shorter than the other. The marginal cost benefit is obtained
from economical models including initial construction costs, project durations, and future returns.
The quantitative measures include discount rate, differential construction cost, duration, and
estimated return period. Variation of each factors within their probable boundary are considered
and stated in the paper. The analytical framework will assist the project owners to target the
optimum construction duration if the precast construction is selected. On the sensitivity study, it
is concluded that the discount rate has minor impact on the selection and the initial income is
crucial to a successful decision. The proposed methodology provides project engineers and
owners with a quantifiable, close-form solution for selecting construction alternatives with very
minimal input information required.
Keywords: Construction Method, Life-Cycle Cost Analysis, Construction Duration, High-tech
Industry
Introduction
Literature review has shown that the market share of the precast concrete industry in the
western countries has exceeded 40 percent. The precast concrete building system also exceeds
more than 10 percent of the total building construction industry in Taiwan’s neighboring countries
such as: Japan and Singapore. As of today, statistic shows that the precast building is roughly 1
percent of total number of buildings in Taiwan. The precast concrete building system has not yet
been wel accepted in today’s society in Taiwan for many reasons. The quality of the first few
precast buildings built in 1950’s was so poor that precast building becomes a symbol of lower
class resident. Secondly, the water leakage problem due to inadequate detailing causes the general
objection of the building type. Thirdly, the seismic vulnerability of precast building was
questioned by many engineers in the last few years was among of the reasons why precast
building has a limited acceptance in the Taiwan construction industry.
As the injury and death toll of the Taiwanese construction industry remains high, the cost of
labor increases unceasingly, and the level of demand in the quality of housing rises every years,
the precast concrete building system will eventually become the solution to the fore mentioned
problems. The scope of this research is to study the economic aspect of this construction method
time savings and resulting in early occupancy. The smooth surfaces produced with precast
concrete and the ability of precast, prestressed concrete to span long distances makes precast
suitable for use in manufacturing and storage structures. As the IT industry of Taiwan is raising
the demand of a fast track construction for the high-tech industry is enormous. Additional
applications for precast concrete include piles and deck for railroad and highway bridges, railway
crossties, burial vaults, educational institutions, commercial buildings such as shopping malls,
and public buildings including hospitals, libraries, and airport terminals.
Construction Cost Comparison
For contractors and specifiers, there is a big difference between price and cost. The total cost
of ownership (TCO) is defined the combination of the quality, service, delivery and price. While
price is but one element of cost, it is the initial, most visible and the easier of the two to
understand. Focusing on price is not a preferred strategy in any business, especially where
high-quality, high-tech, reliable manufactured goods are concerned. Instead, for precast concrete
products, the focus should be on the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO).
In terms of cost elements, a distinct advantage of precast concrete over cast-in-place (CIP) is
speed of delivery and ease of installation, or service. Both contribute directly to lower Total Cost
of Ownership. Controlled batch proportions placed under uniform conditions consistently creates
a better product than can be cast in place. On the construction of the high-tech industry,
scheduling is an important, unpredictable and expensive risk. Nature stacks the cost odds against
CIP concrete. It is a much quicker and less risky choice to have the precast delivered and installed
the same day rather than excavate, form, pour and strip the CIP concrete, cure, damp proof and
backfill.
Issues Associated with Cash Flow
The cost is essential when evaluating civil infrastructure construction alternatives.
Traditionally, accrued costs are expressed as equivalent to the present worth of costs or as
equivalent to the uniform annual costs, using compound interest formulas. However, the
formulation above has limited applicability when dealing with selection of construction methods.
It is because the construction duration differs with from one to another. However, the problems
associated with comparing multiple cash flow diagrams can be resolved by the incremental
method. Nevertheless, with very little or no information on the positive (income) side of the cash
flow diagram, neither the “cost/benefit method” nor the “internal rate of return method” can be 
used to establish the base for comparison in the case of interest. Comparing two construction
alternatives with only the cost information on varying construction duration is a rather difficult
task. There are too many variables involved in the formula and too many assumptions that need
to be made without specific boundary. A typical cash flow diagram of a manufacture is shown in
figure 1 where the total construction cost 0P is lumped into an initial investment and
construction duration is roughly fourteen months. The income earning, A, generated from mass
production is assumed occurred immediately after the construction is complete.
Figure 3 Calculating the IRR between Two Construction Methods
The total marginal income can be transformed as:
 
 
  





 ii1
1-i1
AP )-t(t
)-t(t
t pc
pc
P 1
(1)
Set the Net Present Value (NPV) equals to zero and find the internal rate of return i using try and
error.
       01
1 









Ppc
pc
t)-t(t
)-t(t
00
iii1
1-i1
AP-P (2)
Formula 2 can be simplified as
       1-i1Aii1i1P-P )-t(t)-t(tt00 pcpcp  (3)
The problem can be further reduced if the value A can be related to the construction cost
either 0P or 0P . The way how this can be achieved is by setting the goal for return period of the
initial investment. For instance, the project length can be pre-determined as the investors pick. If
the project owner expects to receive all his money back within Et months, then the value A from
Figure 4 can be calculated as follows:
Figure 4 Estimating the Net Income Value A
 C
C
t
0t i1PF  (4)
Since,
 
  






1-i1
ii1
PA )t-(t
)t-(t
CE
CE
(5)
A
13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Et
0 1 2
i = 3.5%
0P
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
i = 3.5%
A
11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 30 ………
 00 PP   PC tt 
6. Norman L. Scott (1994). “Precast Prestressed Concrete Beyond the Year 2000 in the United
States,”PCI Journal, Prestressed Concrete Institute, Vol. 39, No. 4, P. 42-53, July-August
1994.
7. Ben C. Gerwick, Jr. (1991). “The Global Advance - Emerging Opportunities at Home and
Abroad,” PCI Journal, Prestressed Concrete Institute, Vol. 36, No. 6, P. 12-18,
November-December 1991.
8. Charles H. Knight, Jr. (1985). “Prerequisites for Business Optimism,”PCI Journal,
Prestressed Concrete Institute, Vol. 30, No. 1, P. 20-24, January-February 1985.
9. Jacqueline Glass (2005).“A Best Practice Process Model for Hybrid Concrete Construction,”
Construction Management & Economics, Routledge, Taylor & Francis Group, Vol. 23, No. 2,
P169-184, February 2005
10. A. B. Idrus and J. B. Newman (2002). “Construction Related Factors Influencing the Choice
of Concrete Floor Systems,” Construction Management & Economics, Taylor & Francis
Group, Vol. 20, No. 1, P. 13-19, January 2002.
11. Rafael Sacks (2004). “Evaluation of Economic Impact of Three-Dimensional Modeling in
Precast Concrete Engineering,”J. Comp. in Civ. Engrg., Vol. 18, Issue 4, pp. 301-312,
October 2004.
12. Low Sui Pheng and Choong Joo Chuan (2001). “Just-in-Time Management of Precast
Concrete Components,”J. Constr. Engrg. and Mgmt., Vol. 127, Issue 6, pp. 494-501,
November/December 2001.
13. David Arditi, Uluç Ergin and Suat Günhan (2000). “Factors Afecting the Use of Precast 
Concrete Systems,”J. Arch. Engrg., Vol. 6, Issue 3, pp. 79-86, September 2000.
14. Edward Wang (2005). “Infrastructure rehabilitation management applying life-cycle cost
analysis”International Conference on Computing in Civil Engineering 2005, Cancun,
Mexico, July 11-15, 2005.
