可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  ▓ 可技術移轉                                      日期：97 年 9月 11 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：強健式適應性飛行載具姿態控制系統 
計畫主持人：       葉富鈞  
計畫編號：NSC96－2218－E－235－003－學門領域：航太科技 
技術/創作名稱 Robust Adaptive Attitude Controller Design for Spacecrafts with Thrusters 
發明人/創作人 葉富鈞 
中文： 
本研究提出兩種非線性控制器，分別有順滑模式姿態控制器與強健
適應姿態控制器，利用姿態控制使得太空船會追隨外太空預定的飛
行軌跡。首先在考慮外部干擾與太空船之轉矩會隨時間變化的情況
下，建立飛行系統之非線性數學模式以及非線性控制器；接著，使
用李氏穩定法則分析全飛行系統之穩定性，是滿足指數性收斂效
果；最後，有效的成果透過電腦數值模擬獲得驗證。 
技術說明 
英文： 
In this paper, we propose two nonlinear attitude controllers, mainly 
consisting of the sliding-mode attitude tracking controller and the 
robust adaptive attitude tracking controller, for spacecrafts with 
thrusters to follow the predetermined trajectory in outer space by use of 
employing the spacecraft’s attitude control. First, the attitude model 
and nonlinear controllers of the attitude control system of a spacecraft 
are established and derived, considering the external forces suffering 
from the gradient torque in a gravitational field due to universal 
gravitation, the optical torque due to solar shining, etc., to utilize the 
robust and/or adaptive control theory for designing the nonlinear 
attitude controllers. Also, we consider the variation of moment inertia 
matrix of a spacecraft during the whole flying course to analyze their 
influences for the practical controller design as the conditions of 
limitation and correction. Simultaneously, we use both the adaptive 
control theory and the sliding mode control to estimate parameters and 
eliminate disturbances. Accordingly, the nonlinear attitude controllers 
of a spacecraft are designed while flight. Finally, we employ the 
Lyapunov stability theory to fulfill the stability analysis of the overall 
nonlinear attitude control systems. Extensive simulation results are 
obtained to validate the effectiveness of the proposed attitude 
controllers. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
本論文可應用於航太科技產業，舉反太空實驗室或者中山科學
院。可做為太空船、運載火箭亦或飛彈的姿態控制器設計的應用。 
附件二 
