  
scattering contribution from the shape of the scattering 
objects and the structure factor S(q) for the interference 
effect between the objects. 
When the lamellar thickness lc is small as compared to 
their radii, their x-ray scattering can be approximated by 
scattering from randomly oriented flat lamellae having the 
same (average) thickness. For values of the scattering 
vector π/R < q <2π/lc, it is then possible to evaluate the 
experimental data by the small-angle form of Kratky-Porod 
approximation[14] P(q) ~ q–2 exp(–q2Rg2)  (1) 
where Rg is the flat lamella radius of gyration taken 
perpendicularly to the lamella surface. This allows for the 
determination of lamellar thickness with an appropriate 
model of the coherent scattering length density distribution 
within the lamella. In the case of two-dimensional thin 
crystalline lamellae (with homogeneous electron density ρc) 
randomly dispersed within the amorphous matrix of 
electron density ρa, the lamellar thickness is related to Rg as 
lc = 12 Rg2      (2) 
under condition of sufficient contrast (ρc ≠ ρa) between the 
crystalline and amorphous phases. 
 
Results and Discussion 
The β phase. Shown in Figure 1 are WAXS profiles 
of five sPS specimens after isothermal crystallization; peak 
positions indicate exclusive formation of the β' phase. The 
SAXS profiles (Figure 2) during isothermal crystallization 
at 250 oC exhibited a broad maximum with its intensity 
increasing with time while the peak position shifted toward 
lower scattering vector q in the early stage of isothermal 
crystallization; these changes became less pronounced in 
the later stage of isothermal crystallization.  
Upon subsequent heating (1.5 oC/min) to 285 °C, the 
peak position in SAXS profiles (Figure 3) remained 
unchanged up to 262 oC but then shifted to lower q at 
higher temperatures. These profiles were then analyzed in 
terms of Kratky-Porod model. The obtained values of the 
crystal thickness lc are observed to increase with 
temperature above 262 oC. The crystal thickness in the 
temperature range of DSC endotherms (Figure 4) lends 
strong support to the melting-reorganization-remelting 
mechanism commonly hypothesized in the literature. In the 
range between 250 and 272 oC, a melting-recrystallization 
process took place; as more than one effect are involved 
here, accurate identification of Tm was not feasible. Hence, 
we have constructed the Gibbs-Thomson melting line 
based on results in the temperature range between 272 and 
278 oC. From the intercept, Tm* of the β phase is estimated 
as 311.7 oC. Based on the ΔHf value of 82.4 J/g (density of 
β' phase 1.067 g/cm3), the slope gives a value of 39.1 
erg/cm2 for σe. 
The α phase. Similar methods were also carried out 
for α" crystals. WAXS profiles in Figure 5 were carried out 
to characterize the crystalline form of specimens prepared 
by means of cold crystallization. It is evident that the α" 
phase is dominant in the four specimens. Figure 6 shows 
the temperature-dependent SAXS profiles of the α" phase 
after heat treatment at 220 °C. Note that, as the density of 
the α" phase (1.033 g mL–1) is lower than that of the β' 
phase, the scattering intensity of α-dominated specimens is 
generally lower than that of the β-dominated specimens. 
During the subsequent heating to 288 °C, the lamellar peak 
of the sPS observed in SAXS remained unchanged up to 
250 oC, and then shifted to lower values of q with 
temperature. From the SAXS data, the crystalline lamellar 
thickness lc (determined via the Kratky-Porod 
approximation) is observed to increase continuously above 
265 oC. The corresponding melting endotherms and the 
change in the crystalline thickness of α" phase during the 
heating process are shown in Figure 7. We construct GT 
plot for α" phase of sPS based on results obtained between 
270 and 280 oC. The value of σe, as derived from the slope, 
is 66.8 erg/cm2, ca. 1.7 times of the corresponding value 
for β crystals. It should be noted that, as chains must fold 
in triplets in α crystals, stronger steric effects are not 
unexpected. The Tm* of α" phase is estimated from the 
intercept of the linear regress line as 354.7 oC (Figure 8). 
These observations suggest the equilibrium melting 
temperature of the α" phase is higher than the β' phase, 
consistent with our high-temperature WAXD observations 
reported earlier. [15] 
 
Concluding Remarks 
Crystallographic and thermodynamic arguments 
generally dictate that the high temperature phase is usually 
of higher symmetry and lower density. The present results 
agree with this general notion. Previously estimations of 
Tm* values were mostly based on the conventional 
Hoffman-Weeks method or its modifications, which are 
convenient but without sound theoretical basis. In the case 
of a limited number of attempts using G-T analysis, SAXS 
results gave clustered data, from which long extrapolation 
is unlikely to be reliable. Simultaneous DSC/SAXS/WAXS 
measurements presented here allowed for extended ranges 
in both lc and Tm, thus providing better estimates of Tm* 
and σe. 
We conclude that the commonly held belief that the β 
phase is higher in Tm* than the α phase is simply incorrect; 
this renders previous discussions on the nature of 
transformation between the two phases rather misleading. 
Our present results indicate that crossover of the G-T 
melting lines, and hence inversion of phase stability, occurs 
at a crystalline lamellar thickness of ca. 6.6 nm. Therefore, 
for crystalline lamellae thinner than this value, β crystals 
may indeed become more stable than α crystals. It appears 
that confusions in previously reported experimental studies 
are related to this inversion of relative phase stability in the 
case of thin lamellae.  
 
References 
1. Guerra, G.; Vitagliano, V. M.; De Rosa, C.; Petraccone, 
V.; Corradini, P. Macromolecules 1990, 23, 1539. 
2. Guerra, G.; De Rosa, C.; Vitagliano, V. M.; Petraccone, 
V.; Corradini, P. J. Polym. Sci. Part B: Polym. Phys. 
1991, 29, 265. 
3. De Rosa, C.; Guerra, G.; Petraccone, V.; Corradini, P. 
Polym. J. 1991, 23, 1435. 
4. De Rosa, C.; Rapacciuolo, M.; Guerra, G.; Petraccone, 
V.; Corradini, P. Polymer 1992, 33, 1423. 
5. Sun, Y. S.; Woo, E. M. Macromolecules 1999, 32, 7836. 
6. Ho, R. M.; Lin, C. P.; Hseih, P. Y.; Chung, T. M.; Tsai, 
H. Y. Macromolecules 2000, 33, 6517. 
7. Woo, E. M.; Sun, Y. S.; Yang, C. P. Prog. Polym. Sci. 
2001, 26, 945 and references cited therein.  
8. De Rosa, C. Macromolecules 1996, 29, 8460 and 
references cited therein.  
9. Cartier, L.; Okihara, T.; Lotzs, B. Macromolecules 1998, 
31, 3303 and references cited therein.  
10. Wunderlich, B. Macromolecular Physics; Academic 
Press: New York, 1980; Vol. 3, Ch. 8. 
11. Chen Y. P.; Tsai J. C.; Hong J. L. J. Chin. Chem. Soc. 
2003, 50, 205. 
