合作企業簡介 
合作企業名稱：聲博科技股份有限公司 
計畫聯絡人：賴文斌 
資本額：九仟萬元 
產品簡介： 
 
 
網址： http://13013128.aloha.com.tw/  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tissues. 
To meet the mentioned requirements, we can develop the ultrasound transducers 
used in HIFU systems as following: a) development of a single or multiple element 
spherical transducer with high output acoustic power, high efficiency for energy 
translation, and long durability, b) development of phased array transducer with 
high output acoustic power, high efficiency for energy translation, and long 
durability, c) development of MRI compatible ultrasound transducer. This project 
is focused on the development of single or multi-element transducer with high output 
acoustic power, high efficiency for energy translation, long durability, and high 
MRI compatibility. 
It is difficult to develop piezoelectrical elements to meet the requirement 
in this project with a limit financial support, and hence the customized elements 
were bought from a famous foreign company. Initial development is focused on 
electrical matching, acoustic matching, acoustic output power and its efficiency, 
acoustic field, and durability. The output acoustic power is 5 W/cm2, power 
translation from electricity to sound is above 50%, and it can be continuously 
driven longer than one hour and maintained at high power and efficiency condition. 
The diameter, radius of curvature and driving frequency for the spherical 
transducer are 8-10 cm, 10-12 cm, and 0.5-1.0 MHz, respectively. 
The acoustic impedance between element and medium is pretty large, and an 
acoustic matching layer with its thickness of one quarter of wavelength is used. 
The acoustic impedance of this matching layer is the mean value of geometrical 
square of medium and element. The matching layer and transducer element need to 
be tightly connected to avoid a strong sound reflection. The material used in the 
matching layer should not affect the MR imaging. In addition, the leakage of water 
or electricity is totally not allowed to avoid the reduction of transducer function 
or electric leakage. 
 
 
人才培育成果說明： 
   本計畫培育了研究生劉建玟開發初步的預測呼吸運動演算法，並且透過學習 MATLAB
軟體後將演算法實現在電腦上並學習使用陣列式超音波。接續計畫的研究生李岳儒將演算
法改進並完成機械式追蹤平台將系統以硬體實現、整合，並且完成實驗驗證追蹤加熱的可
行性。並學習了 MATLAB 及 LABVIEW 軟體的使用。研究生鄭傑方以 MATLAB 模擬追蹤
加熱，探討追蹤誤差對於 lesion 生成的關係，另一方面著手尋找呼吸運動與腹部器官運動
的關係。 
 
技術研發成果說明： 
開發適合 HIFU 治療系統所需之超音波換能器可分為以下數方面進行：a)研發單晶片或
