2中文摘要及關鍵詞：
關鍵詞：極化光波、背向散射、雙向散射、垂直極化、水平極化
本研究計畫設計極化光波散射自動化量測系統，避免以往手動操作量測所引起不必要的
人為量測誤差，將發射端發光元件和接收端光感測元件安裝在圓形軌道上滑動，利用PC 高速
運算能力，搭配自行開發設計之微控制介面，精確控制步進馬達移動位置，以控制發射端發
光元件和接收端光感測元件在圓形軌道上的正確位置，克服量測位置的誤差、人為誤差及重
複量測時之誤差，提高量測精確度，俾能符合光電工業及半導體產業對矽晶片、光纖或其他
光電元件之表面粗糙度的量測精確度能達奈米級的需求。
光散射技術是一門多學科的綜合性技術，量測極化光波在矽晶片受污損之粗糙表面散射
的行為是一嶄新且重要的應用。在奈米材料生產及使用上，激光散射技術用於奈米材料的檢
測可大大促進奈米技術的發展，目前量測極化光波在粗糙表面的散射已成為許多科學研究與
生產部門重要的研究工具之一。光散射量測技術有極大的用途，在不同於入射光平面之方向，
散射光强度、頻率移動及其角度相關性等檢測值，對分析材料結構相當有助益。
光的散射現象乃當光波在介質中傳播時，由於光和物質的相互作用，介質中的原子或分
子中的電子，在光波場作用下，發生受迫振動而輻射出與入射光頻率相同的光波，此種光波
在正交於入射光之方向上是完全偏極化的，因此極化光波在矽晶片受污損之粗糙表面上散
射，將產生同極化和交叉極化現象，了解極化光波在矽晶片受污損之粗糙表面上同極化和交
叉極化光波在不同方位角的散射強度，進而了解矽晶片污損的程度、污損的來源，對矽晶片
的製程控制相當重要。
本研究採用的量測極化光波波長為532mm，入射功率為15mw。為區隔垂直(V)和水平(H)
極化電波散射強度，發射端設計採用雷射光源和接收端設計採用敏感度極高的光波散射量測
元件，且發射端和接收端同時設計加裝垂直和水平極化發射接收濾波器，以同時區隔發射和
量測端之同極化和交叉極化光波的散射強度。本研究計畫採用敏感度極高的光波散射量測元
件，配合電腦高速的運算能力，結合量測數據與資料庫，用以研究和分析極化光波在矽晶片
粗糙表面散射的量測技術。為克服量測及人為誤差，本量測系統將發射光源與敏感度極高的
光波散射接收量測元件安裝在球形支架上，同時設計利用電腦精密控制步進馬達，進而控制
發射雷射光源與光接收量測元件位置。步進馬達利用電腦控制，可提高量測精確度，克服量
測與人為誤差，以符合實際量測需求。
散射量測的可靠度將與目前所發展出來的積分模式(IEM, Integral Equation Model)極
化波散射理論相驗證，分析量測值與理論預估值兩者吻合的程度，同時分析多重散射強度對
實際量測所造成影響的程度。因極化光波在矽晶片粗糙表面散射將發生去極化現象，且去極
化的結果將使散射光波偏離入射面，尤其矽晶片表面被污損程度愈嚴重，則散射光波偏離入
射面的情況愈嚴重，因此目前量測系統僅量測入射面的散射強度，致使量測值與實際散射值
有極大的誤差。
本研究計畫量測非入射面的極化光波散射情況，可進一步瞭解矽晶片在不同污損情況與不同
方位角的極化光散射強度分怖關係之貢獻度和重要性。其次將此極化光波量測技術應用於研
究極化光波在晶片隨機污損粗糙表面散射強度之量測與分析上，並期盼開發之技術可移轉應
用於國內IC 和光電製造產業，研發成果並將與目前IC 和光電產業使用之光學影像處理技術
成果互相比較，以評估及檢討此量測技術，以進一步提供符合高精度矽晶片元件製程控制的
測量技術需求。
4報告內容：
前言-The backscattering enhancement from rough surfaces is predicted due to the constructive
interference of multiple surfaces scattering. For specialized surfaces involving roughness large
compared with the incident wavelength, the multiple scatter and backscattering enhancement takes
place. The phenomenon of backscatter enhancement becomes evident for both larger normalized
surface height and surface rms slope. In this paper we take further study to predict the
backscattering enhancement mainly comes from upward multiple scattering. On the contrary the
downward multiple scattering has no contributions to the scatter strength of backscattering
enhancement. The existing integral equations model is modified to be able to predict the
phenomena of multiple scattering and backscattering enhancement. The total multiple scattering
strength is the summation of upward and downward multiple scattering strength. The depolarized
multiple scattering makes much contribution to the strength of backscatter enhancement in the
backward direction along the plane of incidence from random rough surfaces, but depolarized single
scattering makes little. In comparison of model prediction of total multiple scattering strength with
measured data along the specular plane, excellent agreement is obtained.
研究目的-In this paper we develop the scattering model to predict the multiple scattering and
backscattering enhancement and the relationship between them. Due that the phase terms of Green's
function and its derivative in the integral equation pairs is a possible candidate for the multiple
scatter and backscattering enhancement from very rough surfaces, the model developed in this
paper is based upon the integral equation pairs with tangential electric and magnetic surface fields.
文獻探討-The experimental study of backscattering enhancement from characterized random
surfaces was studied by L. Ailes-Sengers in 1995. The comparisons of Monte Carlo numerical
studies and experimental measurement of backscattering enhancement from 2-D perfectly con
ducting random rough surfaces was made by Joel T. Johnson in 1996. Up to date a theoretical
model for studying the backscattering enhancement and the relationship among the backscattering
enhancement and the multiple scattering is still lacking. Further the study of upward or downward
multiple scattering making major contributions to backscattering enhancement is also lacking.
研究方法-The modified integral equations for tangential surface fields on a dielectric interface are
applied to predict the contributions of multiple scattering from rough surfaces. In the model
development the estimates of the tangential surface electrical and magnetic fields in the dielectric
medium are more general than Kirchhoff, perturbation surface fields and the existing integral
equation model.
The absolute value term in the Green's function represents the downward and upward scattering
pattern and strength. When the phase term of the Green's function with an absolute value sign is
included, the major impact is on the evaluation of the ensemble averages for finding the ensemble
average scattered power. The bistatic scattering coefficients related to the ensemble average scatter
power can be obtained. And then the scatter strength of multiple scattering with the correction of
shadowing function is therefore obtained.
結果與討論-To evaluate the validity of model prediction for the depolarized multiple scattering
for rough surfaces we compare the level and trend of depolarized scattering coefficient of model
6可供 推廣之研發成果資料表
■ 可申請專利 □ 可技術移轉 日期： 年 月 日
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱：極化光波在矽晶片粗糙表面散射強度量測與研究
計畫主持人：謝 金 原教授
計畫編號：NSC 97－2221－E－244－017－ 學門領域：光電其他
技術/創作名稱 粗糙表面量測技術
發明人/創作人 謝金原教授
中文：本研究計畫設計極化光波散射自動化量測系統，避免以往手
動操作量測所引起不必要的人為量測誤差，將發射端發光元件和接
收端光感測元件安裝在圓形軌道上滑動，利用 PC 高速運算能力，
搭配自行開發設計之微控制介面，精確控制步進馬達移動位置，以
控制發射端發光元件和接收端光感測元件在圓形軌道上的正確位
置，克服量測位置、人為及重複量測之誤差，提高量測精確度。
技術說明
英文：In this project we try to design a measurement system for the
randomly rough surfaces of the industrial products. In order to reduce
the human error and lots of time consumption of measurement the
automated measurement system is designed to install the transmitter
and receiver in the semi-sphere chamber respectively and to control the
positions of transmitter and receiver by the microcomputer
automatically. For reducing the measurement error the stepper motor is
designed to control the positions of transmitter and receiver precisely
in the semi-sphere chamber, and then the stepper motor is controlled by
the control interface card and personal computer. The project is design
to promote the measurement precision for the industrial products.
可利用之產業
及
可開發之產品
光電、薄膜、光纖產業
表面污損狀況的量測
技術特點
本計畫結合資訊量大與具有複雜計算等雙重功能的量測系統，利用
現有 CPU 即可承擔此大資訊量的計算負荷，可在幾秒鐘內完成計
算結果，尤其本計畫研究利用極化光波散射技術，應用於量測極化
光受晶圓表面之散射情形來探討其受污損的狀況，建構圓形軌道供
光收發模組在此圓形軌道上滑動，可克服多次重複量測位置的誤差
及人為誤差的降低，在技術上頗具創新性。
推廣及運用的價值
本計畫開發之技術預期可移轉應用於國內IC 及光電製造產業，對
前瞻性科技人才或技術研發人才之培育亦將有所助益。
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位研
發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。
附件二
8Study of Relationship between Multiple Scatter and Backscatter Enhancement from Rough Surfaces
Chin-Yuan Hsieh1 and Ling-Hsuan Hsieh2
1IT Dept., Kao Yuan University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan 2ECE, University of Waterloo, Canada
Abstract- The backscattering enhancement from rough surfaces is predicted due to the constructive
interference of multiple surfaces scattering. For specialized surfaces involving roughness large
compared with the incident wavelength, the multiple scatter and backscattering enhancement takes
place. The phenomenon of backscatter enhancement becomes evident for both larger normalized
surface height and surface rms slope. The backscattering enhancement mainly comes from upward
multiple scattering, however downward multiple scattering has no contributions to the scatter
strength of backscattering enhancement. The depolarized multiple scattering makes much
contribution to the strength of backscatter enhancement in the backward direction along the plane of
incidence from random rough surfaces, but depolarized single scattering makes little. In comparison
of model prediction of total multiple scattering strength with measured data along the specular plane,
excellent agreement is obtained.
INTRODUCTION:
The experimental study of backscattering enhancement from characterized random surfaces was
studied by L. Ailes-Sengers in 1995. Up to date a theoretical model for studying the backscattering
enhancement and the relationship among the backscattering enhancement and the multiple
scattering is still lacking. Further the study of upward or downward multiple scattering making
major contributions to backscattering enhancement is also lacking.
In this paper we develop the scattering model to predict the multiple scattering and backscattering
enhancement and the relationship between them. Due that the phase terms of Green's function and
its derivative in the integral equation pairs is a possible candidate for the multiple scatter and
backscattering enhancement from very rough surfaces.
MODEL DESCRIPTION:
The modified integral equations for tangential surface fields on a dielectric interface are applied to
predict the contributions of multiple scattering from rough surfaces. In the model development the
estimates of the tangential surface electrical and magnetic fields in the dielectric medium are more
general than Kirchhoff, perturbation surface fields and the existing integral equation model [Fung,
1994].
The spectral representation for the Green's function is stated below
G(1
2)
j
qexp[ ju(x x )iv(yy )jq zz ]dudv
The absolute value term in the Green's function represents the downward and upward scattering
pattern.
The scatter strength of single scattering is expressed as
!
]})sinsinsin(sin)cossincos[(sin
4
)(
exp{
)(
4
)(
)()(
22
2
2
1
2)cos(cos)(
2
222
nn
n
kL
Ike
kL
ss
ssss
qp
n
nk
sinqp
s


 




 
The upward multiple scattering coefficient is
),(),(
16
1
)],(),(),(),([),(
16
1
)()()],(Re[
2
1
{
)(16
)(
)()()(
*
4343
2
21
*
4
4
)(
ysyxsxqpqp
qp
qpqpinupward
m
qp
kkvkkuFvuF
qqcqqcqqcqqcvuF
qcqcvuFf
k
kL
ssL






10
