 2
以合成音樂刺激進行人類音樂感知模型建構 2-2 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-006-507–MY2 
執行期限：95/08/01 ∼ 97/07/31 
主持人：梁勝富  國立成功大學資訊工程學系(所) 
計畫參與人員：曹育祥、劉啟生、莊子宜、陳宏鳴
一、中文摘要 
諧和音程是西方音樂調性理論普遍且重要的
概念。過去研究藉由行為與 ERPs的實驗發現音樂
家對於諧和音程的處理是符合音程諧和度，然而此
方面針對非音樂家的研究卻認為是受到臨界的頻
寬(roughness)的影響，因此本研究希望找出音樂家
與非音樂家腦皮質在處理音程諧和度及 roughness
有何差異。本研究實驗目的為利用行為反應和
ERPs 比較業餘音樂家與非音樂家聽到諧和音程
(完全五度)或不諧和音程的差異。諧和音程或不諧
和音程聲音刺激包含會產生 roughness 的頻率範圍
及不會產生 roughness 的頻率範圍。在行為實驗
中，業餘音樂家可明確分辨諧和與不諧和音程，但
非音樂家卻無法做到這點，且非音樂家認為沒有
roughness的刺激為諧和音程，有 roughness的刺激
為不諧和音程。在 ERPs分析中，P2是由次級聽覺
皮質區產生，業餘音樂家不論在完全五度、增四度
和有無 roughness 刺激引起的 P2 皆比非音樂家的
P2 振幅較強，諧和音程比起不諧和音程會使業餘
音樂家的 P2 有較強的振幅，非音樂家聽到具有
roughness的刺激比起沒有 roughness的刺激會產生
較強的 P2 振幅。 N2 是由前扣帶皮質區(ACC)產
生，業餘音樂家聽到不諧和音程比起諧和音程會產
生較強的 N2 振幅，而具有 roughness 的刺激比起
沒有 roughness 刺激會讓非音樂家的 N2 有較強的
振幅。實驗結果指出大腦可塑性對於諧和音程和不
諧和音程的反應會受到專業訓練的影響，業餘音樂
家的次級聽覺皮質區因受到音樂訓練而強化，且其
P2 ERP 反應與音程和諧程度一致，並藉由前扣帶
皮質區明確分辨諧和音程和不諧和音程。 
關鍵字：聽覺皮質區、聽覺事件相關電位、諧和音
程、音樂感知、音樂訓練、大腦可塑性 
 
Abstract 
Consonance of interval is a most significant 
general idea of western tonal music. Some studies 
indicated that cortical processing of musical 
consonance conforms to consonance of interval for 
amateur musicians. However, consonant and 
dissonant perception is related to critical bandwidth 
(roughness) for non-musicians. Therefore, this project 
wants to find out the cortical processing of musical 
consonance and what are the differences with 
consonance of interval and roughness for 
musicians/non-musicians. The aim of the project is to 
discover the brain plasticity due to musical training 
by analyzing the behavior response and ERPs of the 
subjects with difference musical training experience 
when listening to dissonant (tritone) /consonant 
(perfect fifth) intervals and stimuli with/without 
roughness. In the behavior experiment, amateur 
musicians accurately categorized the consonant and 
dissonant intervals, but not for non-musicians. 
Non-musicians considered that stimuli without 
roughness are consonant and stimuli with roughness 
are dissonant. P2, localized in the region of the 
secondary auditory cortex, evoked by consonant or 
dissonant intervals and stimuli with or without 
roughness are enhanced in amateur musicians 
compared with non-musicians. Non-musicians had a 
stronger positive P2 when stimuli with roughness 
were presented than the stimuli without roughness. 
Amateur musicians had a stronger positive P2 when 
consonant intervals were presented than the dissonant 
intervals. For the N2 component that is localized in 
the region of anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), 
non-musicians had a stronger negativity N2 when 
stimuli with roughness were presented than when 
stimuli without roughness were presented. Amateur 
musicians had a stronger negativity N2 when 
dissonant intervals were presented than when 
consonant intervals were presented. The results show 
the influence of brain plasticity cause by musical 
training experience. The secondary auditory of the 
amateur musicians were enhanced compared with 
non-musicians and the amplitude of their P2 ERP 
components can consistently reflect the consonance 
of pitch intervals before ACC processing. 
Key words: Auditory cortex, auditory event-related 
potential, consonance, roughness, music perception, 
brain plasticity. 
 
二、前言 
Pitch interval is a most significant universal 
age; 9 females, 3 males) had played their instruments 
for 10-19 years and practiced 7-28 hours per week, 
and the accuracy of behavioral experiment were all 
above 90% (see below). Non-musicians were 12 
right-hand musically untrained adults (21-24 years of 
age; 6 females, 6 males). Amateur musicians majored 
in piano (9/12), Chinese flute (1/12), Viola (1/12), 
and Violin (1/12). Non-musicians did not play any 
instruments and had no formal musical training. 
Subjects were given written informed consent and 
received monetary compensation for their 
participation. 
 
Stimuli 
 4
There were 20 dyads, a dyad was composed of 
two sinusoidal tones with amplitude in the equal 
temperament (G#2-Eb5; 104-622 Hz). The duration of 
the stimulus was 350 ms with 100-ms falling time. 
Subsequently, a dyad with pitch interval 6 semitones 
was tritone (dissonant) and 7 semitones was perfect 
fifth (consonance) (Fig. 1), 10 dyads for each pitch 
interval. Both of them include roughness and without 
roughness (Fig. 1). 8 dyads of constituent simple 
tones were distributed within the frequency range 
(104-262 Hz) below the critical bandwidth (Plomp 
and Levelt, 1965). The intensity of stimuli was at 
approximately 60 dB. 
 
Figure 1. Examples of tritone (left) and perfect fifth 
(right) intervals. Waveforms and spectra for the 
tritone and perfect fifth. Both of them included 
roughness (top) and without roughness (bottom). 
 
Electrophysiological recording  
Scalp EEG was amplified by Neuroscan NuAmp 
and filtered on-line with a bandpass filter (DC to 100 
Hz, 6-dB/octave attenuation). Data was continuously 
recorded in DC mode at a sampling rate of 1000 Hz 
from 32 electrodes mounted in an elastic cap and 
referenced to the nose tip, in accordance with the 
10-20 international system. Impedance at each scalp 
electrode was reduced to 5KΩ or below. Electrode 
positions was located by 3D digitizer  (Polhemus 
Fastrak digitizer). The digitized EEG data were 
further filtered with a bandpass filter of 0.5-30 Hz 
(EEGLAB, FIR filter) to eliminate slow drifts as well 
as muscular artifacts then were down-sampled 
(250Hz). Subsequently the epochs were rejected 
when EEG amplitude exceeded 100 µV. Selected 
trials were averaged according to categories of the 
consonance/dissonance and roughness/non-roughness. 
 
Experimental Procedure 
Behavior experiment  
Subjects sat on a comfortable chair and wore the 
earphone for stimuli delivering. They were informed 
to listen to 2 consonant and 2 dissonant pitch 
intervals at the beginning. Subsequently, participants 
had to response to each stimulus through a button 
press: consonant intervals using index finger and 
dissonant intervals using middle finger. One session 
contained 20 stimuli that appeared randomly. In this 
part, two sessions were performed. Subjects were 
asked to respond as fast as possible. No immediate 
correction was done throughout the entire experiment. 
Trials that reaction time was larger than 3 times 
standard deviation (SD) from the mean were rejected. 
Finally, reaction time and accuracy of selected trials 
were analyzed. 
 
ERPs experiment 
After participants wore EEG cap, they were 
asked to judge consonant or dissonant intervals 
immediately without behavioral response. Each of the 
consonant and dissonant intervals (140 stimuli) was 
randomly presented in a 15-min session. Two 
sessions were carried out with 5-min pause. The 
stimuli were presented randomly in sequence with 
2-4 second stimuli onset asynchrony. Subjects’ eyes 
were closed throughout the EEG recoding. 
  
AEP component were identified in the averaged 
data for each subject and stimulus condition that 
searched for peak reversals within latency windows 
determined from group averages. The N1 peak was 
determined as the most negative voltage reversal 
during the interval 90-150 ms after stimulus onset. 
The P2 peak was determined as the most positive 
Non-musicians had a stronger positive P2 when 
stimuli without roughness were presented than stimuli 
with roughness were presented, but not for amateur 
musicians. Amateur musicians had a stronger positive 
P2 when perfect fifth was presented than tritone was 
presented, but not for non-musician. 
H
it 
ra
te
 (%
)
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Tritone Perfect fifth
* *
Tritone Perfect fifth
R
es
po
ns
e 
tim
e 
(m
s)
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
Musician
Non-musician
B
H
it 
ra
te
 (%
)
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
R
es
po
ns
e 
tim
e 
(m
s)
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
Roughness
Without roughness
* *
Tritone Perfect fifth Tritone Perfect fifth
A
H
it 
ra
te
 (%
)
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Tritone Perfect fifth
R
es
po
ns
e 
tim
e 
(m
s)
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
Tritone Perfect fifth
Non-musician
Musician
Figure 2. (A) Mean percentages of hit rate (left) and 
mean response time (right) for identifying the stimuli 
with and without roughness for amateur musicians 
(n=12) and non-musicians (n=12). (B) Mean 
percentages of hit rate (left) and mean response time 
(right) for identifying tritone and perfect fifth for 
amateur musicians (n=12) and non-musicians (n=12). 
*p < 0.05 
Non-musicians had a stronger negative N2 when 
low-frequency stimuli were presented than 
high-frequency stimuli were presented, but not for 
amateur musicians. Amateur musicians had a stronger 
negative N2 when perfect fifth was presented than 
tritone was presented, but not for non-musician. 
Larger P2 responses were evoked by the stimuli 
with/without roughness and tritone/perfect fifth for 
amateur musicians than non-musicians at Fz channel, 
whereas no significant differences (stimuli 
with/without roughness and tritone/perfect fifth) were 
found for amateur musicians and non-musicians in 
the N1 and N2 component at Fz channel. 
 
  
Figure 3. ERPs elicited by the presentation of perfect 
fifth/tritone and with and without roughness at Fz 
channel for amateur musicians (right) and 
non-musicians (left). Stimuli for roughness type 
(average of stimuli with and without roughness) in 
the non-musicians elicit an N1 with a central scalp 
distribution, P2 with a central scalp distribution, and 
N2 with a frontal-central scalp distribution. 
ERPs experiment 
ERPs (Fig. 3) elicited by the presentation of 
perfect fifth/ tritone at Fz channel for amateur 
musicians and non-musicians. Scalp topography (Fig. 
3, bottom) and response latency for the N1 (90-150 
ms), P2 (180-250 ms), and N2 (290-380 ms) 
components are shown at their amplitude maxima. 
These data were averaged over the stimuli with and 
without roughness for the non-musicians.  
Source analysis Regarding the N1 component, there was no 
significant of roughness type (with and without 
roughness) for non-musicians and amateur musicians. 
And, there was no significant of perfect fifth/tritone 
for non-musicians and amateur musicians.  
Dipole source analyses for the N1, P2, and N2 
peaks in the musicians for consonance type are shown 
in Fig. 4. The analysis constrained the cortical 
sources for N1 and P2 to localize symmetrically in 
 6
 8
the different training histories of amateur musicians 
and non-musicians with respect to consonant and 
dissonant intervals. Therefore, P2 (secondary auditory 
cortex) enhancements would be expected in amateur 
musicians compared with non-musicians. 
Garca-Larrea et al., (1992) proposed the P2 
evaluates stimulus aspects during the classification 
process and facilitates a first rough stimulus appraisal. 
Non-musicians had a stronger positive P2 when 
stimuli with roughness were presented than when 
stimuli without roughness were presented. 
Non-musicians may reflect the first stimulus appraisal 
of the consonant and dissonant intervals with and 
without roughness.  
On the other hand, amateur musicians had a 
stronger positive P2 when dissonant intervals were 
presented than when consonant intervals were 
presented, but not non-musicians. Our results were 
consistent with this finding (Garca-Larrea et al., 
1992), the tritone (6 semitone), a dissonant interval, 
and the perfect fifth (7 semitones), a consonant 
interval, had different consonance of intervals 
resulting in different amplitude of P2 for amateur 
musicians, but not for non-musicians. Due to musical 
training, P2 (secondary auditory cortex) of amateur 
musicians was enhanced compared with 
non-musicians. Thus, amateur musicians evaluated 
difference in consonance type (tritone and perfect 
fifth) resulting in different amplitude of P2, but not 
non-musicians.  
Beside, P2 sources resided medially and 
posteriorly relative to N1 sources when tritone and 
perfect fifth were presented for amateur musicians. 
And, the localization of P2 and N1 were similar when 
stimuli with and without roughness were presented 
for non-musicians. 
 
N2 
Non-musicians were untrained within 
consonance of interval, so they can not evaluate the 
differences (consonant and dissonant intervals) and 
can not judge consonant and dissonant intervals 
because of the same amplitude of N2. However, 
non-musicians had a stronger negativity N2 when 
stimuli with roughness were presented than when 
stimuli without roughness were presented. 
Non-musicians may reflect the categorization of the 
consonant and dissonant intervals on the roughness 
by ACC. 
Amateur musicians had a stronger negativity N2 
when dissonant intervals were presented than when 
consonant intervals were presented, but not 
non-musician. The N2 arose frontally and centrally 
linking to the cognitive processes of stimulus 
identification and distinction (Pritchard et al., 1991; 
Ritter et al., 1979). N2 sources localized in the region 
of anterior cingulate cortex (ACC). Thus, amateur 
musicians trained within consonance of interval, they 
can evaluate the differences (consonant and dissonant 
intervals) and judge consonant and dissonant intervals 
by ACC. 
 
N1 
In the auditory evoked potential (AEP), the 
amplitude of the N1 evoked by consonant or 
dissonant intervals did not differ between amateur 
musicians and non-musicians. N1 sources in the 
region of the bilaterally superior temporal gyrs. These 
results were in agreement with other studies (Scherg, 
1898, Shahin et al., 2003). Some studies also found 
out that didn’t enhanced N1 responses after training 
for spectral acoustic discrimination (Atienza et al., 
2002; Tremblay et al., 2001). Highly skilled violinists, 
pianists and non-musicians control listened under 
conditions of passive attention to violin tones, piano 
tones, and pure tones matched in fundamental 
frequency to the musical tones. They also failed 
detected enhanced N1 response after training (Shahin 
et al., 2003). However, Neukirch et al. (2002) 
reported that these components were sensitive to 
intensity. Thus, sets of consonant and dissonant 
intervals were similar in intensity and amateur 
musicians and non-musicians had similar N1 
amplitude. 
 
五、計畫成果自評 
In the past two years, we have constructed an 
auditory ERP recording environment, designed the 
musical perception experiments, and successfully 
obtained the behavior and auditory ERP recordings of 
twenty-four participants. We also successfully 
discover that secondary auditory cortex plays an 
important role in the perception of musical 
consonance for musicians or auditory roughness for 
non-musicians. The discoveries and achievements in 
this study can be further extended to basic 
neuroscience study, clinical applications and music 
creations and compositions in the future. The 
manuscript is in preparation for submission to a SCI 
journal.  
 
 10
consonance and the perceptual similarity of 
complex-tone harmonic intervals: tests of adult 
and infant listeners,” The Journal of the 
Acoustical Society of America, Vol. 100, No. 5, 
pp. 3321-3328, 1996. 
Schellenberg, E. G. and Trehub, S. E., “Frequency 
ratios and the perception of tone patterns,” 
Psychonomic Bulletin and Review, Vol. 1, No. 2, 
pp. 191-201, 1994. 
Schneider, P., Scherg, M., Dosch, H. G., Specht, H. J., 
Gutschalk, A., and Rupp, A., “Morphology of 
Heschl’s gyrus reflects enhanced activation in 
the auditory cortex of musicians,” Nature 
Neuroscience, Vol.5, pp. 688-694, 2002. 
Scherg, M., Vajsar, J., Picton, T. W., “A source 
analysis of the late human auditory evoked 
potentials,” Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 
Vol. 1, pp. 336-355, 1989. 
Shahin, A., Bosnyak, D. J., Trainor, L. J., and Roberts, 
L. E., “Enhancement of neuroplastic P2 and N1c 
auditory evoked potentials in musicians,” The 
Journal of Neuroscience, Vol. 23, No.13, pp. 
5545-5552, 2003. 
Shahin, A., Roberts, L. E., Pantev, C., Trainor, L. J.,  
Ross B., “Modulation of P2 auditory-evoked 
responses by the spectral complexity of musical 
sounds,” Neuroreport, Vol. 16, No. 16, pp. 
1781-1785, 2005. 
Terhardt, E., “Pitch, consonance, and harmony,” The 
Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, 
Vol. 55, No.5, pp. 1061-1069, 1974. 
Terhaedt, E., “The concept of musical consonance: a 
link between music and psychoacoustics,” Music 
Percept, Vol.1, pp. 276-295, 1984. 
Tervaniemi, M., Just, V., Koelsch, S., Widmann, A., 
and Schroger, E., “Pitch discrimination accuracy 
in musicians vs nonmusicians: An event-related 
potential and behavioral study,” Experimental 
Brain Research, Vol. 161, No.1, pp. 1-10, 2005. 
Tremblay, K., Kraus, N., McGee, T., Ponton, C., and 
Otis, B., “Central auditory plasticity: changes in 
the N1-P2 complex after speech-sound training,” 
Ear and Hearing, Vol. 22, No. 2, pp. 79-90, 
2001. 
Tramo, M. J., Cariani, P., and Delgutte, B., 
“Representation of tonal consonance and 
dissonance in the temporal firing patterns of 
auditory nerve fibers,” Soc. Neurosci. Abstr., 
Vol. 18, pp. 382, 1992. 
出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                          96  年  11 月 30  日 
報告人姓名 梁勝富 服務機構及職稱 
成功大學資訊工程系 助理教授 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
Nov. 3 ~ Nov. 7, 2007 
美國加州聖地牙哥 計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-006-507-MY2 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 第三十七屆神經科學會年會 
 (英文) 37th Annual Meeting of the Society for Neuroscience 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 動態刺激下之暈車效應與腦波反應 
 (英文) EEG Correlates of Motion-Sickness in a Dynamic Driving Simulator 
一、參加會議經過 
本次出國有兩個目標，第一是至美國加州聖地牙哥大學(UCSD)進行國科會計畫國際合
作研究，而本年度神經科學會年會(SFN 2007)亦剛好在聖地牙哥召開，因此，亦剛好可
同時在此會議中發表研究成果。我在台灣 11 月 1 日下午搭長榮班機到洛杉磯機場，再
轉機到聖地牙哥，隨即到加州大學聖地牙哥分校  (UCSD)的 Swartz Center for 
Computational Neuroscience (SCCN)拜訪鍾子平教授，進行音樂認知研究討論。鍾教授今
年暑假曾到本人主持的神經運算與腦機介面實驗室參訪，當時座談討論即針對一般人與
音樂家接受不同和諧程度聲音刺激的事件相關腦電位(event-related potential) 分析給予
寶貴意見。此次參訪正好可討論與追蹤近幾個月的研究結果。美國時間 11 月 2 日，我
再次到 Swartz Center與鍾教授討論實驗流程的修改，及腦波與行為分析技術。 
美國時間 11月 3 日到 11月 7日是神經科學會年會開會，本次會議我共同著作的論文
有三篇在這次會議發表，分別發表在 6日下午與 7日早上。由於 SFN Meeting 的特色是
包羅所有與神經科學相關的研究，所以約有三萬人參加，會議的 presentations 與 posters 
很多，因此僅能選擇與自己研究相關的主題的參加。我主要選擇腦機介面、音樂認知、
神經感測系統等主題參加。會議前三天，我白天到會場選擇有興趣的主題參與，會後則
回到 UCSD 與鍾子平教授討論與會心得及合作計畫的研究工作，感覺相當充實。會中
亦巧遇清大電機呂忠津教授，他目前在 Salk Institute休假研究，鎖定神經運算與模型建
構等主題。 
11 月 6 日下午我們發表兩篇研究，分別是無線腦機介面與暈車狀態之腦波反應。無
線腦機介面利用乾式電極量測前額腦波，利用藍芽無線傳輸將腦波傳送至手機進行分
析。這個系統我們在現場操作展示，引起與會者相當大的興趣。而暈車狀態之腦波反應
研究利用虛擬平台來引發暈車效應，進而分析暈車前後的腦訊號變化。大約有 10 位與
會者登記索取 poster 電子檔。 
11 月 7 日上午我們發表精神狀態由清醒到疲倦的腦動態反應研究。此研究利用長時
間單調的工作來引發受試者的疲倦感，進而分析在不同精神狀態下的腦波變化。這項研
究鍾子平教授也共同參與，所以他也在現場協助講解。未來音樂感知研究的成果將提供
有效的生物回饋設計基礎，讓使用者可以提升工作專注力與工作效能。美國時間 11月 7
日晚上即搭機返回台灣，完成這次赴美國會議與參訪研究行程。 
 
