計畫英文摘要：
Keyword：Joint Source Channel Coding, Oversampled Filterbanks, VLC
With the rapid advance of wireless communication, the need to transmit video
over mixed internet and wireless channels is increasing. As a result, reliable transmission
over wireless links has gained growing interest. The main difficulty is to mitigate the effect
of both packet loss and channel transmission errors. Many solutions have been proposed,
but the problem remains still open.
This proposal would like to implement a t+2D video coder based on oversampled
filterbanks (OFBs) which provide a redundant description of the signal. This redundancy
has been put at work to correct transmission errors in a noisy environment when applied to
still images and video sequences. The transmission error in this previous work stands for
the random bit error happened in the binary symmetric channel (BSC). However, in the
wireless environment, packet loss is unavoidable. Therefore, the basic idea of this project is
to use OFBs to resist all the transmission errors including random bit error and packet loss.
Besides, efficient compression is desired for the increased computation cost due to
oversampling. First, we will focus on the design of OFBs. It will be done in three issues:
reducing the oversampling factor, good choice of a prototype when modulated FBs is realized
and the type of modulation which will result in a better coding gain. Furthermore, we will try
to combine OFBs with VLC to achieve improved compression efficiency while use soft
decoding technique to resist the error corrupted in the VLC bitstream.
力，一種稱之為聯合訊源與通道編碼（joint source channel coding）的替代方式便備受
矚目。
 Joint Source Channel Coding Method
在過去的幾年之間，JSCC 已愈來愈受矚目。和傳統式的 tandem 系統不同的是，
訊源端和通道端在設計編碼時，通道端會將訊源端的特性考慮進去，訊源端則會考慮通
道錯誤的影響，並且可將整個系統的 distortion 看成一種函數，其深受訊源編碼端與通
道解碼端所殘留的錯誤所影響。因此，在 JSCC 系統中，我們著重與考量的是如何在有
限的設計預算中，在訊源端和通道端做有效的位元分配，已達到一種特殊的要求。譬如，
一種最低的整體 distortion。現在，我們將簡短回顧一些現有的 JSCC 技術。
1. Channel optimized quantization and index assignment [5]
在通道最佳化的量化架構裡，並且在沒有任何通道編碼的情況下，一種 fixed-rate
的量化器被用來抵抗通道錯誤。它的理論基礎在於設計良好的 partition 以及 codebook，
而使的在有雜訊的環境裡整體系統 distortion 能被最小化。針對訊源最佳化之量化器的
索引配置（index assignment）是另一種保護並對抗通道錯誤的方法之一。通常，它可
以容許錯誤發生在某些位元串流上，因為這些位元串流上的錯誤並不會在解碼端造成
太大的影響，因此，整體 distortion 最小化的目的因此而能達成
2. Joint source channel decoding
在現實生活中，由於受限於編碼複雜度與延遲的約束，在訊源編碼之後的壓縮資
料裡仍殘留一定程度的 redundancy。因此，joint source channel decoding 的背後動機即
在於利用這些既有的 redundancy 去達到有效解碼的目的[6, 7, 8]
3. Multiple Description Coding
Multiple Description Coding [9, 10] 可以針對一個訊源產生許多分支串流
（sub-stream），每一個分支串流可以稱為一個 description。和分層式編碼（layered coding）
不同的是，description 之間是有相關連性的。在解碼端，當其他的 description 沒有成功
被接受到時，每一個 description 可以提供一個基本程度的重建品質。因此，有愈多
description 被接收，整體的重建品質也相對被提升。此外，由於 descriptions 之間存在
的關連性，MDC 有著對抗錯誤的能力。在封包交換的環境（packet-switched）裡，信
號可以藉由接收到的 description 來重建。
4. Redundancy Before Source Coding
另一種去實現聯合訊源與通道編碼的方式就是在訊源編碼之前加入 redundancy。
這個計畫的基本想法就是隸屬於這個族群。在 Gabay [3]的論文中提及，在量化動作之
前，信號先經由 wavelets decomposition，之後又加入了 BCH 碼。它的目的即在於利用
BCH 碼的特性去對抗通道錯誤。然而它的前提是 BCH 的特性必須能夠成功的保留並於
解碼端完美呈現，所以，此種架構受限於 low-bitrate 的應用。因為此時的量化錯誤過大，
BCH 解碼器無法發揮它的功能。
包進行估測，之後利用 syndrome 資訊找出 bit error 可能的發生之處並進行更正。之後，
我們可以用更新過的資料再次估測遺失的封包內容，一直到重建的資料沒有更好的改善
為止。
五. 結果與討論
此次計畫的成果已發表於一國際會議論文（ICASSP 2006）[11]，請參考附件。
六.參考文獻
[1] I. Bajic and J. Woods. Domain-based multiple description coding of images and video.
IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, 12(10):1211—1225, Oct. 2003.
[2] J. C. Chiang, M. Kieffer, and P. Duhamel. Oversampled filterbanks seen as channel
codes : impulse noise correction. Proceedings of ICASSP, pages 249—252, 2003.
[3] A. Gabay. Codage conjoint source canal, application ` a la transmission d’images par 
satellite. Ph.D thesis, 2001.
[4] C. E. Shannon. A mathematical theory of communication. Bell Syst. Tech. J., 1948.
[5] N. Farvadin. A study of vector quantization for noisy channels. IEEE Transactions on
Information Theory, 36(4):799-809, July 1990.
[6] K. Sayood, H. Otu, and N. Demir. Joint Sourec/Channel coding for variable length codes.
IEEE Transactions on Communications, 48(5):787—794, May 2000.
[7] R. Thobaben and J. Kliewer. Robust decoding of variable-length encoded markov sources
using a three-dimensional trellis. IEEE Communication Letters, 7(7):320—322, July
2003.
[8] P. Yahampath and M. Pawlak. Soft-decoding based vector quantization for
hidden-markov channels. Proceedings of DCC, 2003.
[9] V. K. Goyal, J. Kovacević, and M. Veterli. Multiple description transform coding: 
Robustness to erasures using tight frame expansion. Proceedings of IEEE Int.Symp. on
Information Theory, page 408, August 1998.
[10] M. Pereira, M. Antonini, and M. Barlaud. Multiple description image and video coding
for wireless channel. EURASIP Signal Processing Image Communication, 18:925—945,
2003.
[11] J. C. Chiang, C. M. Lee, M. Kieffer, and P. Duhamel. Robust video transmission over
mixed IP-wireless channels using motion compensated oversampled filterbanks, .
Proceedings of ICASSP, 2006.
七. 計畫成果自評
此次計畫的成果有幸於 ICASSP 會議中發表，這樣的結果對新進人員的我的確有
很大的鼓舞作用，另外，在參與國際會議的其間也確實收穫不少，所以今年度的計畫執
行成果對我而言算是一個不錯的開始。
Input
Motion
estimation
channelMotion field
coding
Spatial analysis
(OFB)
Quantization
Bit assignment
Packetization
Interleaving
MCTF
(Haar)
MDC
Fig. 1. Proposed MC-OFB based video coding scheme
particularly sensitive to transmission errors. This paper assumes
that they are transmitted and received without any error (they are
assumed to be strongly channel encoded). What will be demon-
strated in this paper is the error correction and packet loss recovery
ability of OFBs combined with MD. Only MC texture errors and
losses are considered.
3. JOINT SOURCE-CHANNEL CODING TECHNIQUE
The robustness of the proposed video coding scheme is based on
the redundancy introduced by the OFB and on the data partition-
ing technique. Before describing the error correction techniques,
the considered channel model has to be described, see Figure 2.
The first part of this model is an internet link where transmitted
Input Packet erasure
channel BSC
Output
Fig. 2. Considered network model
data may encounter packet losses. The second part of the channel
introducing random errors (wireless part) is modeled by a BSC.
Thus, during transmission, some packets are lost and the remain-
ing packets are received. However, the available packets may have
been corrupted by the BSC noise.
First, the packet erasure channel model is described in Sec-
tion 3.1. The way MDC is put at work in the proposed scheme
to reestimate lost data is presented in Section 3.2. The Gaussian-
Bernoulli-Gaussian (GBG) channel model is recalled in Section 3.3,
which accounts for quantization noise, random bit errors, and poor
re-estimation of lost data. Finally, Section 3.4 summarizes the er-
ror correction scheme.
3.1. Packet erasure channel model
The part of the channel introducing packet losses (internet part) is
modeled by a 2-states Markov packet transmission model. This
model is specified by two parameters p10, and p01 where p10 de-
notes the transition probability of received state to lost state and
p01 stands for lost to received. The averaged packet loss probabil-
ity ppl = p10/(p01+p10) and the averaged packet loss burst length
Lpl = 1/p01 may also determine the network behavior. Next, we
will present the protection technique for packet losses.
3.2. Multiple description coding for packet loss
Classical MDC algorithms first decorrelate the input signal by a
transformation and then introduce some artificial redundancy in or-
der to resist the transmission errors [13]. In the proposed scheme,
OFBs are used to combine the signal decomposition and redun-
dancy introduction in a single step. OFBs, as critically sampled
filterbanks, perform a spectral signal decomposition. Due to over-
sampling, some redundancy is introduced in the spectral domain,
which may be used for error correction [8]. Here, the spatial cor-
relation that remains in each subband after OFB filtering is also
used, as proposed in [14], in the context of image coding using
wavelets. This can be accomplished by an efficient data partition-
ing after OFB filtering, to allow reconstruction of missing samples
in subbands using their available neighbors.
A way to generate this kind of multiple descriptions is using
polyphase downsampling [15] or domain-based partitioning [14].
In order to minimize the distortion under all possible transmission
scenarios when packet losses occur, the domain-based partition has
been considered here. In this partition problem, the objective func-
tion can be expressed as Popt = arg min|P |=Np
dmin(P ), where P de-
notes the partition set, P = {P0, P1, ...PNp−1}, NP is the given
number of partitions, |P | is the cardinal number of P and
dmin(P ) = min d
i
min, 0 ≤ i ≤ NP − 1
with dimin representing the minimum distance between two sam-
ples in the i−th partition. The problem is equivalent to sphere
packing in Z2. As well known, the hexagonal lattice solves this
problem in R2 by relaxing some constraints. [4] presents the way
of deciding which sublattice in Z2 is similar to the hexagonal lat-
tice. The main purpose of such partitions is to make every sample
in a partition surrounded by as many samples belonging to other
partitions as possible. Thus, samples from a missing partition may
be reestimated by their available neighbors. This approach is a
way to improve error concealment, without increasing the bitrate,
contrary to standard MDC techniques. For more details about the
way the partitions are built, see [4, 14].
Here, every subbands are partitioned according to [14], see
also Figure 3 where the number indicates which description the
pixel belongs to. Contrary to the implementation in [1, 2], where
each subband is a description, here, descriptions are created by
grouping samples from several subbands, as done in the context
of image coding using wavelets by [14]. Moreover, each network
packet contains only one description.
2 5 9 12 2
1 4 8 0 1
11 14 15
10 13
9 12
8
5
4
9 12
8 0
7
3 6
2 5
0 1 40 1 4 8
2 5 9 12
3 6 10 13
7 11 14 15
15 7 11 14 15 7 11 14
Fig. 3. An example of data partitioning with P=16
3.3. GBG channel model
In [8], it has been shown that OFBs may be seen as channel codes
for real-valued data. Decoding with error correction using OFBs
requires a model of the part of the communication scheme that
lies between the output of the analysis OFB and the input of the
synthesis OFB. This model is presented now.
In this paper, this joint channel model gathers the quantiza-
tion error introduced by source coding, the errors remaining after
channel decoding. Under these assumptions, for the received sub-
