11. Introduction
During solidification or crystal growth of a binary alloy, because the solid formed usually
has different solute composition than the liquid, solute has to be rejected from or incorporated
into the solid, ending up a solute boundary layer forming near the melt-solid interface. If the melt
in the solute boundary layer is supercooled, then the interface may become unstable to a cellular
structure, starting to grow into a corrugated shape and ultimately producing unwanted
compositional inhomogeneity inside the solid. This is termed a morphological instability [1], a
long-standing issue in the metallurgy of crystal growth [2]. Besides that, because both
temperature and solute gradients are inherently present, the interface may also be destabilized by
natural convection. This buoyancy-driven convection results from the dynamically overturning
instability of the melt [3]. In general, convective instability is characterized by a wavelength
comparable to the thickness of the compositional boundary layer, and the wavelength of
morphological instability is much shorter [4]. Consequently, any coupling between the two seems
to be weak and natural convection is hardly exploitable to control morphological instability for
crystal growth. Research efforts have therefore turned to seek effective imposed flow to control
instability [5].
In this research, we consider potential ways of mechanical modulation. Such modulation may
come from the orbital maneuver of a space lab, causing the cooling device to fluctuate in
temperature/concentration, inducing the oscillation of the molten zone. In addition, earth based
experiments have also shown that floating regions may express oscillatory motion in some rapid
solidification techniques [6]. It is hoped our study would cast light on the relevant stability
problems. There have been several research papers discussing the analytical models of crystal
growth with periodic growth rates [7-10]. Wheeler [11] combined these works, considering the
effect of periodic growth rates on the morphological stability of a growing crystal. However, only
synchronous instability has been investigated. Results showed the system is stabilized by the
oscillation regardless of the interface being melted back or not. We note such a crystal growth
system with oscillating growth rates is somewhat similar to the Benard problems that contain
modulation in surface temperature [12-14]. The modulated Benard problems often result in both
synchronous and subharmonic instabilities, and the modulation can be stabilizing or destabilizing
depending on both amplitude and frequency. Therefore it is valuable to seek for periodic molten
regions the synchronous and subharmonic instabilities. Rather than directly imposing upon the
mean growth rate a fluctuating component as the aforementioned author has done, in this work,
oscillation of the molten zone is present by modulating the solute field such that the periodic
growth rate is part of the solution.
2. Mathematical formulation and basic state
In this section we introduce the governing equations for the problem, and solve the basic
3remains flat. Such a state is termed the basic state. We solve the basic state analytically by
expanding the governing equations in terms of the modulation amplitude  that is assumed to
be small. The basic-state interfacial position and concentration are expanded into the form
1( ) ...bh h t  (2.5a)
0 1( , ) ( , ) ...bC C z t C z t   (2.5b)
Substituting Eqs. (2.5a, b) into the governing equation and boundary conditions, and collecting
the coefficients of like powers n , we obtain the associated equations for various orders of .
For simplicity, only 0( )O  and ( )O  solutions are given. The governing equation and
boundary conditions of 0( )O  are unaffected by modulation, and therefore they remain similar
to those cases with no modulation [5] and take the form
0 0 zcC z A G e  , (2.6a)
0
0 0i z
A M
T MC
k
  , (2.6b)
where the constant
1
0
1
1 H
k
A e
k

       
. (2.6c)
The concentration gradient at the time-mean interface position 0z is obtained as
0
1
c
k
G A
k
   
. (2.6d)
Next we consider the governing equation for ( )O  , which is
2
12 0Ct z z
         
. (2.7)
The associated interface boundary conditions after being transformed and evaluated at 0z are
 
2
0 1 1 0
1 1 0 121
C h C C
k C h C h
z t z z
             
, (2.8a)
0
1 1 1
C
Gh M C h
z
    
. (2.8b)
The boundary condition at z H is
1 ( )cosC t  . (2.9)
Eq. (2.7) subject to boundary conditions (2.8a, b) and (2.9) can be solved analytically by
expressing 1C and 1h in the form
 1 1Real i tC C z e  , (2.10a)
 1 1Real i th h e  , (2.10b)
The complex function of concentration 1( )C z in Eq. (2.10a) is solved as
5    1 2 1 0 1 1 0 1( 1 ) cos sinc r c r i c iG Sk h C G h t C G h t h           
 1 1cos sinr i CC h t h t z
   

 . (3.4b)
In Eqs. (3.4), the coefficients 1 0 1 (0)r rC C and 1 0 1 (0)i iC C are related to the basic-state
concentration bC evaluated at 0z , which is expressed as
0 1 0 1 1( ) ( , ) { ( )cos ( )sin }b r iC C z C z t C C z t C z t       . (3.5)
The superscript primes in Eqs. (3.4) represent the derivatives to the vertical coordinate, i.e.
' d dz and '' 2 2d dz . Two additional dimensionless parameters are shown in Eq. (3.4b).
These are the Sekerka number kS , measuring the intensity of the supercooling effect at the
interface, defined as k cS MG G and 1kS is its reciprocal, and the modified capillary
parameter , which is defined as cMG  .
The above set of equations contain time-periodic coefficients for which the solution can be
obtained by employing the framework of Floquet theory. The solution is expanded as the product
of a temporally periodic function and an exponential function of time:
 
| |
( )( , )
exp
( )
n
r i
n N n
C zC z t
i in t
hh t
 

                


 . (3.6)
Substituting these series expansions into Eq. (3.2) and boundary conditions (3.3) and (3.4), we
obtain a set of ordinary differential equations of order 4 2N  for the complex Fourier functions
( )nC z . Because there are additionally 2 1N  Fourier constants nh being part of the solution,
the total number of boundary conditions comes to 6 3N  . The set of homogeneous differential
equations and boundary conditions yields an eigenvalue problem. The system of equations
contains the Floquet exponent r ii    as a parameter. The basic state is said to be linearly
unstable for a given set of parameters if, for a disturbance the real part 0r , and is said
marginally stable if 0r  . In general, the imaginary part i has two specific values. For
0i , the instability mode is referred to as a synchronous mode, and for 2i the
instability mode is termed a subharmonic mode. For simplicity, we focus on 0i and 2
in the following analysis, searching for respectively the synchronous and subharmonic
instabilities for the problem. By doing so, we can make use of the conjugate-translation
symmetry for resulting solutions, and the number of the complex unknowns is largely reduced.
The reduced problem was then solved by a shooting method. The resolution of the solution
depends on the truncation number N used to approximate the infinite series expansion in Eq.
(3.6). The value of N is found to depend mostly on the input frequency , a lower value of
 requiring a larger value of N for a given level of accuracy. For the case of 0.3 , setting
8N  is found to be enough to attain the tolerance for the Sekerka number on marginal curves
below 510 , however for the case of 0.1 , 12N  is needed to keep the same accuracy.
When modulated, the system’s typical map of instability is like Fig. 1, which is plotted for
7stabilization is synchronous and increases with increasing the modulation amplitude until the less
critical subharmonic mode may take over, and the stabilization is most pronounced as 0
and decreases to zero as . Such a trend reveals the feature, which is often seen in a
Floquet system that, if one mode with a given set of wave lengths is stabilized by the oscillation
then some other modes are likely to be destabilized [15].
4. Conclusion
We consider in this work the morphological instability of a binary mixture during directional
solidification into a modulated solute field. The melt-solid interface moves with time in a
sinusoidal way. Assuming the imposed modulation to be small we show by a linear stability
theory that the Mullins-Sekerka interfacial instability may be stabilized and the stabilization is
synchronous, which is consistent with the previous studies of Wheeler [11]. We further show for
the periodic molten region, subharmonic destabilization that has much smaller wave numbers
than the Mullins-Sekerka instability does, can possibly set in. It is interesting to note this new
instability is likely to be enhanced when the modulation amplitude is increased. Therefore it
remains to be seen if a finite large amplitude forcing may make any different responses to these
modes and destabilize the system.
The subharmonic instability is shown to occur with much larger wavelengths. Under such a
circumstance, the thermo boundary layer may likely become important and the latent heat effect
should not be neglected [16,17]. To gain more physical insights, the frozen temperature
approximation shall be lifted to check the effects of the latent heat on the subharmonic modes.
We have also neglected the effects of any fluid flow. The cooling associated with solidification
usually produces density gradients. The resulting buoyancy force can drive convection of liquid
near the corrugated solid front, which may enhance or delay morphological instability depending
on whether the rejected solute is dense or light. All this complex and rich fluid dynamics under
the circumstance of oscillatory molten zones shall merit further research in the future.
References
[1] W. W. Mullins, R. F. Sekerka, J. Appl. Phys. 35 (1964) 444.
[2] M. G. Worster, Perspectives in Fluid Dynamics: a Collective Introduction to Current Research
(ed. H. K. Batchelor, H. K. Moffatt and M. G. Worster), Cambridge University Press, 2000,
p. 393.
[3] S. H. Davis, J. Fluid Mech. 212 (1990) 241.
[4] S. R. Coriell, M. R. Cordes, W. J. Boettinger, R. F. Sekerka, J. Cryst. Growth 49 (1980) 13.
[5] M. E. Glicksman, S. R. Coriell, G. B. McFadden, Ann. Rev. Fluid Mech. 18 (1986) 307.
[6] C. C. Hu, J. C. Chen, C. H. Huang, J. Crystal Growth 225 (2001) 257.
[7] A. A. Wheeler, Proc. Roy. Soc. (London) A379 (1982) 305.
