 2 
亞熱帶熱濕氣候區低密度住宅導入尖端熱環境控制技術之
研究－以台科一號開放性實驗屋為例 
Implementing Cutting-edge Thermal Control Technologies on 
Low-density Residential Building in Hot-humid Climate – A 
Case Study of NTUST 1 Experimental House 
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-011-128 
執行期限：98 年 08 月 01 日至 99 年 10 月 31 日 
主持人：江維華  國立台灣科技大學建築系教授 
計劃參與人員：黃建勝  國立台灣科技大學建築系博士後研究員 
王家瑩、許皓香  國立台灣科技大學建築系研究生 
 
中文摘要 
    本研究以開放式獨立住宅為實驗平
台，進行建築構造與環境控制系統的整合
性研究，建築構造系統提供了配合實驗的
環境條件與可調式構造，環境控制系統則
整合被動與主動控制系統，包括地底恆溫
利用、輻射制冷技術整合室內通風系統
等，進行同步與整合性之性能與效益檢
討。整體研究成果希望能針對亞熱帶熱濕
環境氣候，提出適用於低密度住宅之最佳
化複合式熱環境控制技術，並期望該系統
能同步降低環境負荷與整體生命週期之耗
能與成本。 
 
關鍵字：開放式建築、複合熱環境控制、
地冷系統、輻射冷房系統、通風系統 
 
Abstract 
    The research project is proposed to 
conduct an experiment of thermal control 
system based on an existing experimental 
house building. The building is designed to 
provide adaptable use and required physical 
environment for the experiments. The 
environment is an integrated passive and 
active control system that utilizes ground 
source, radiant chiller system, and indoor 
ventilation strategies. After some polite 
testing and tuning, the work is to monitor 
the performance of the proposed 
optimization and to assess the system based 
on criteria concerning sustainability. The 
results of the proposed research will 
improve the understanding of the feasibility 
of optimizing a hybrid thermal control 
system for subtropical, hot-humid climate. 
The established system is aimed to reduce 
the environmental loading, energy 
consumption and cost of the building life 
cycle. 
 
Keywords: open building, hybrid thermal 
environment control, ground cooling, 
radiant cooling ceiling, ventilation system 
 
一、前言 
在世界幾種主要氣候區中，寒帶、溫
帶、與熱乾氣候區都能有效率的提供舒適
的室內環境，唯獨台灣所處的濕熱氣候
區，被動式手法的應用有其極限，在夏季
高溫高濕的條件下，必須仰賴主動式
(active)冷房，才能同時移除顯熱與潛熱負
荷，而這些主動式機械基本上都需耗費相
當的能量。常用的主動冷房設施雖有直
流、變頻、變流量、變風量等節能模式之
開發，近年來換氣造成的冷房負荷也可藉
由已經商品化的全熱交換器(ERV, energy 
recovery ventilator)來降低耗能，然而在實
務的應用上，當代的節能建築除了要以被
動與可變(adaptive)手法優先來整合高效
能的主動式設備之外，也必須能積極的整
合再生能源系統，才能有效的降低耗能。 
針對環太平洋區域的舒適性研究顯示
該區域的居民對熱有較高的耐受性，這些
研究改變了長期使用美國 ASHRAE 以北
美所制定的舒適標準，對國內的建築節能
設計有正面的意義。對室內空氣品質
(indoor air quality)的重視，也形成了將換
氣與冷房分開處理的觀念。若將此觀念融
 4 
建築設計與設備必須能反映季節轉換
時節能策略的改變，外氣溫度適宜的春秋
季或夏季的夜間可結合各種自然或加上輔
助設備之通風手法移除室內的熱量與濕
氣；夏季外氣溫度高時，換氣量則須加以
控制，以避免增加額外的熱負荷，大量的
換氣僅限於移除蓄積於構造體的熱量，換
氣量造成的冷房(顯熱與潛熱)負荷也可以
利用一些特殊的技術降到最低，以上目標
的達成則必須仰賴主被動手法的良好搭
配，下一章節則為此研究之對策與進行步
驟。 
 
四、研究方法 
其進行步驟如下： 
1. 利用 CFD 數值解析的方法，對影響中
庭自然通風換氣量以及中性帶高度的
各項因素進行研究與分析。探討浮力通
風與風力通風對於抬高中庭室內氣流
場的影響。應用 CFD 電腦模擬解析進
行改變中庭通風窗高度、開口形式、開
口面積、室內熱源類型、通風路徑、中
庭抬高高度及室外風速等因素，藉由通
風量及室內平均溫度的評估，提供中庭
自然通風設計的參考。 
2. 地中管的實驗研究顯示地底年平均溫
度約介於 23 至 24℃的恆溫，經由建築
能源解析軟體 TRNSYS 模擬兩根 5m
的鋁合金材質地中管，以串聯的型式安
裝，並用正壓的方式在固定送風量下，
由外管流經管壁與土壤進行熱交換
後，求得內管氣流的出風溫度，藉此評
估結合建築物後之可行性。 
3. 輻射冷房部分的研究，主要分為實驗與
模擬兩個部份，實驗部份探討不同板面
進水溫度及流量對於室內氣溫的影
響，再進一步將實驗所得到之數據配合
CFD 數值模擬軟體，來計算輻射冷板
數量、表面溫度及送氣方式，對於室內
環境熱舒適度的分佈。分析方式是以
ASHRAE的舒適度指標來評估其 PMV
值是否落在舒適度範圍內。 
 
五、結果與討論 
1. 自然通風 
在自然通風方面，先以一簡化之矩形
體模擬自然通風時的情形。觀察圖 2 可看
出，當室外風速愈大，位在受風面處的進
風口負壓愈明顯，形成的風壓換氣也愈
強；在中庭通風窗對角配置且進風口設置
於受風面負壓處時，當室外風速小於
1.5-2m/s，風壓與依溫度差造成之浮力相
抵消，使換氣效果降低；當室外風速達到
2m/s 時，風壓換氣大於浮力換氣，中庭內
的通風路徑則由風壓換氣支配，此時，部
分自然風由出風口貫入，與室內溫度差造
成之浮力相抵消，也因逆流使室內形成渦
流的情形，造成室內平均風速雖然有明顯
的提高，但是對於室內排熱的效果卻沒有
比無外風場時來的好。要補足此缺點，可
以在出風口的前面豎立擋風板，利用風的
負壓吸出室內空氣，提高換氣量。觀察圖
3 發現，當室外風速到達 2m/s，室內會形
成渦流，造成出風口的排熱效果減低。室
外風速微弱時，風壓換氣擾亂了原本浮力
換氣的上升氣流，使整體的換氣量比無外
風場時明顯減少許多，進而降低了室內排
熱的效果，造成室內的平均溫度明顯比無
外風場時升高許多。 
 
 
圖2 不同室外風速之壓力場與氣流場
CFD數值解析結果 
 
 
 6 
內降溫能力也會隨之受影響。 
 
 
輻射冷板  
燈管 
冷板溫度 
 
圖 7 輻射冷板進水 18℃之板面溫度分
佈 
 
 
(a)                   (b) 
 
 
(c)                (d) 
圖8 (a)-(d) 輻射冷板水溫搭配不同流量之
室內溫度 
 
在輻射冷房模擬的部份，針對板量與
板溫變化來探討室內空間之冷卻效益及熱
舒適性。圖9為單純使用輻射冷板，不依靠
送氣降溫的條件下，使用者產生的高溫向
上浮力流，遇到表面溫度較低的輻射冷
板，氣流往兩邊散逸的情形，此時輻射冷
板以輻射及對流兩種熱傳機制與使用者進
行熱交換來達到降溫的效果。只有單純使
用輻射冷板時室內均溫性良好，但均未達
人體舒適度範圍，因此採用外氣輔助出風
系統來增加冷卻能力。圖10為增加18℃下
出風後的情形，採用置換通風的送氣概念
在空間裡產生層化現象，並對使用區域直
接降溫，低溫之輻射冷板則是提供了室內
溫度的均勻性，人體與設備等熱源產生之
上升氣流也能同時帶走汙染物，此時模擬
之室內平均溫度為21.87℃。 
 
 
 
圖 9 使用區域的自然對流情形(無送氣，輻
射冷板表面溫度為 18℃) 
 
 
圖 10 輻射冷板搭配置換通風的室內溫度
分佈(送氣溫度 18℃，輻射冷板表面溫度
18℃) 
六、結論 
本研究已經完成各項技術之初期成
果，可導入開放式低層獨立住宅平台(台科
大土城校區-台科一號實驗屋)，探討以被
動式控制手法為優先，結合主動式熱環境
控制策略，環境控制系統則導入適合於低
密度地區使用之地溫利用技術、輻射冷房
與自然通風機制。整體研究在建築設計與
設備上能反映季節轉換時，節能策略的改
變，並且經由本案建立建築跨領域統整研
究之模式，整合建築、土木、機械與環工
等專業研究人力，建構符合永續發展目標
的熱環境控制系統評估指標與實質評價方
法，並將成果納入專業課程，進一步達到
教育訓練的目的。 
 
七、參考文獻 
[1] Abdeen Mustafa Omer (2008), 
 8 
ceilings in parallel with dedicated 
outdoor air systems: addressing the 
concerns of condensation, capacity, and 
cost,” ASHRAE Transactions, 108(2), 
220-231. 
[17] Stanley, A. Mumma (2002), “Safety 
and comfort using DOAS radiant 
cooling panel systems,” ASHRAE IAQ 
Applications newsletter, winter, 1-2. 
[18] Stetiu, Corina (1998), Radiant cooling 
in US office buildings: towards 
eliminating the perception of 
climate-imposed barriers, Energy and 
Resources Group, University of 
California at Berkeley Press. 
[19] Wong, N. H. and Heryanto, S. (2004), 
“The study of active stack effect to 
enhance natural ventilation using wind 
tunnel and computational fluid 
dynamics (CFD) simulations,” Energy 
and Buildings, 36, 668-678. 
[20] Wu, H. J., Wang, S. W., and Zhu, D. S. 
(2007), “Modelling and evaluation of 
cooling capacity of earth–air–pipe 
systems,” Energy Conversion and 
Management, 48, 1462–1471. 
 
八、計畫成果自評 
本研究內容與原計畫相符程度達 90%
以上，在有限的經費補助下已盡力達成預
期目標，研究成果之學術價值共發表國外
SCI 國際期刊一篇(審查中)，國際研討會六
篇(其中含兩篇 EI)，及五篇國內研討會。
至於創新應用技術整合自然通風、地源冷
暖技術及輻射冷房系統，於台科大土城校
區之台科一號開放性實驗屋，其研究過程
包含實驗和模擬兩部份，探討以被動式控
制手法為優先，結合主動式熱環境控制技
術，所得的結果可導入亞熱帶熱濕氣候區
之低密度住宅，對於國家社會整體節能策
略有長足的助益。由於研究資源的限制，
部份的研究成果僅能完成電腦數值模擬，
期冀未來能獲得更多的研究經費抑注，得
以做進一步的深入性研究。 
的一項評定參數，但由於舞臺環境的需求是多向度的，本次研討會因此有專門的
場次對此做探討。除筆者發表的論文之外，其他論文則涉及對樂團整體印象的評
價、樂手間在需求上的差異，以及過低的反射板造成的音染色問題等。但由當前
發展，可發現仍有以下議題值得繼續探討：(1)聲部間需求的差異(2)樂手台、樂團
配置等之影響(3)擴大之樣本已進行多向度研究等，因此本次參與此場次之發表者
將在研討會後繼續探討進行整合性研究之可能性。 
2. 樂團演出之聲場虛擬技術 – 大型音樂廳以團體演出為主，包括交響樂團、大型
合唱團等，長久以來由於樂團的錄音不易且電腦解析無法不易反應各種樂器之指
向性特質，虛擬樂團演出通常使用單點聲源來製作。近年來由於對樂器聲源特值
得進一步掌握，加上提供對各種專業耳機之頻譜修正，以及運算速度之大幅提
升，本次會議中已有研究單位結合了出版擬真軟體之廠商，製作了樂團演出之多
軌無響錄音。在運用雙頻道輸出的前提下，配合各個樂器之聲場運算，未來將可
直接應用於製作虛擬聲場，反應樂團作為一個面音源之臨場感。 
 
三、參觀活動 
研討會安排了兩場參觀，各為墨爾本市整修中的大音樂廳與甫開幕的獨奏廳。 
1. 整修中的大型音樂廳漢默廳(Hamer Hall)位於墨爾本表演藝術中心，鄰近於本次
會議地點。該廳興建於 1982年，為 2661席之專用音樂廳(如圖 1所示)，但由於
席位容量過大導致某些席位有明顯的聲學上缺陷，例如整體能量不足、夾層席位
因兩側初挑過深導致餘響感不足等。整修工程已在進行中，預計於 2012年重新
開幕。室內聲學上的改善包括縮減整體廳堂寬度、減少兩側包廂的出挑、重做舞
台上方反射板等，其他配合的改善包括更新風管與出回風口以降低空調之機械噪
音，以及增加舞台上之機械設施以提供跨界演出等，座位容量將縮減至 2500席
以下。 
2. 新建之墨爾本獨奏廳(Melbourne Recital Center)具表演藝術中心約 500尺，2009
年開幕，1003席的空間以室內樂與中小型樂團演出為主要機能(如圖 1所示)，但
舞台兩側旋轉開之活門可提供簡易之劇場功能，增加表演上之多樣性，約 140 m2
的舞台可容納 70人的樂團。該廳以鞋盒型為基本平面型狀，但前後端各做斜角
處理以增加初期反射能量，室內的另一大特色則是模仿木頭紋理做層深凹凸，以
達擴散的目的，在這些隨機的紋理之外，舞台的周邊與觀眾席後強更增加了模矩
化的凹凸，增加其擴散效果。 
 
四、結語 
本次研討會的議程緊湊且充實，能深刻體認當前國際上室內聲學上的進展，也
可以感覺到學界與業界在研發上的高度互動，如此才能提升技術競爭力。希望未來
能持續參與此系列研討會的核心活動，進而爭取會議之主辦權。 
 Proceedings of the International Symposium on Room Acoustics, ISRA 2010 
29-31 August 2010, Melbourne, Australia 
 
ISRA 2010 1 
Stage acoustics for vineyard concert hall 
Wei-hwa Chiang, Yi-run Chen, Chia-chun Chen, and Yen-kun Hsu 
National Taiwan University of Science and Technology 43, Keelung Rd. Section 4, Taipei 106, Taiwan, R.O.C 
 
PACS: 43.55 FW   
ABSTRACT 
In rectangular concert halls all surfaces near the stage can be valuable for acoustical communication among perform-
ers, while in a vineyard hall the ceiling may become the only surface to provide early reflections back to the stage.  
Field measurement and subjective evaluation in a hall with adjustable overhead panels were performed regarding the 
effectiveness of the reflectors for various parts of an orchestra.  Results of computer modeling were presented that 
compares various design features intended for enhancing early and late energy back to the performers.  Also pre-
sented were the discussion regarding the interaction between the parameters for the musician and the parameters for 
the audience. 
INTRODUCTION 
The presence of “vineyard” style of concert halls is growing 
because of the dynamic atmosphere created in such a style of 
hall [1].  Besides normally noticed difficulties due to source 
directivity, problems associated with early support may arise 
when walls are farther away from each other in compared 
with a rectangular hall.  Overhead reflectors become a popu-
lar solution to this problem. 
This paper explored the issues of on-stage acoustics associ-
ated with vineyard halls.  Various design factors employing 
computer simulation were analysed in attempt to better under-
stand the design techniques to mitigate the difficulties.  
 
Figure 1.  Subjective rating as a function of attributes com-
paring the configuration with the reflector arrays up position 
(╳) to down position (○) and the string section (dotted lines) 
to the wind and percussion sections (solid lines). 
 
EARLY ENERGY 
The results of some unpublished early study of field meas-
urement and subjective evaluation in a 2,200-seat, 32-m wide 
multi-purpose hall [2] were presented to show how different 
players react differently.  Arrays of triangular, adjustable 
overhead panels were installed over the front half portion of 
the stage. An oriental orchestra that used both western and 
eastern instruments played various orchestral pieces with the 
reflector arrays set to 7.5 m and 12 m high above the stage. 
Average early support (STearly) measured at solo and cello 
position for the two reflector configurations were -14.9 dB 
and -16.1 dB, respectively. The value at the brass position 
stayed nearly unchanged around -12.3 dB. 
There was no statistically significant difference for attribute 
hearing oneself (figure 1).  Lowering the reflector arrays 
were effective in increasing the ratings of attributes hearing 
others and ease of ensemble, especially for the wind and 
percussion sections where the sounds from one’s own or 
nearby powerful instruments are amplified.  This indicated 
that hearing other would potentially more important for the 
sections near the back.  It is, however, not easy to place the 
reflectors low enough practically because the reflectors could 
be visually unpleasant, especially when there are audience 
seating higher than the reflectors. 
Statistical perspectives 
Based on the statistics of vineyard halls presented by Chen et 
al, the average volume behind the stage front line can easily 
reach 8,000 m3.  This volume would yield a STearly approxi-
mately 5 dB less than the optimum value based on Gade’s subjective 
study and regression formula [3].  This was agreed by measure-
ment taken in some vineyard halls where STearly value was 
approximately in the range of -19 dB to -15 dB.  The halls 
with higher STearly data were generally the ones installed 
with detached overhead reflectors.   
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Hearing Oneself Hearing Others Ease of Ensemble
Subjective Attributes
R
ai
tin
g
String - Up
String - Down
Wind and Percussion - Up
Wind and Percussion - Down
23-27 August 2010, Sydney, Australia Proceedings of 20th International Congress on Acoustics, ICA 2010 
ISRA 2010 3 
tion.  STearly at the brass position decreased significantly by 
adding the back terrace and widening the room. 
Means to mitigate the difficulties 
As shown in figure 5, the 28-m wide rectangular hall (upper 
left graph) was used to derive a hall with orthogonal terrace 
seating (middle left graph).  The room width and length was 
increased to 32 m and 46 m, respectively, by removing the 
balcony overhangs.  This also changed the overall proportion 
and shape when maintaining the same audience area and 
room volume.  
Two vineyard terrace halls were further developed by intro-
ducing a terrace 12-m from the stage front line and 3-m 
above the stage floor.  The side portions of the front terrace 
were turned diagonally towards the stage.  In one hall, the 
side terraces set back in steps gradually when confronting 
with the diagonal front terraces (top right graph).  Similar 
layout can be found in Palau de la Musica, Valencia and 
Auditorior Nacional de Musica, Madrid [6].  In the other hall, 
both diagonal portions of the front terrace were raised and 
merged with the side terraces, thus providing a much large 
reflective surfaces aiming towards the stage (middle right 
graph). The room height increased slightly because of the 
raised terraces.  STearly values were also shown in figure 5.  
By turning balconies into orthogonal terraces as the first step, 
STearly increased from -17.3 dB to -17.0 dB.  The values 
further increased slightly when introducing a terrace 12-m to 
the stage.    An overhead panel as large as the stage was in-
stalled 10-m over the stage in the hall with orthogonal ter-
races (bottom right graph).  The reflector yielded a STearly 
of -16.1 dB.   
Figure 6.  Ray diagrams from a violin position to a brass 
position (upper) and from a solo position to an audience on 
the side terrace (lower). 
A comparison was also made between including and exclud-
ing the strong reflection from the back terrace wall when 
calculating STearly for the brass position using the hall with 
raised side terraces.  STearly dramatically decreased by 1.8 
dB when the reflection was excluded.   
There are other architectural features that can be used to en-
hance early energy back to the stage, such as inclined reflec-
tors over side terraces used in some vineyard halls and none-
vineyard ones.  The distance to the stage should be main-
tained close enough for the reflectors to be effective.   Figure 
6 shows ray diagrams for the 32-m hall incorporating various 
features to enhance early energy on stage.  The upper graph 
demonstrated the effective reflections with 80-ms delay from 
the overhead panel, the bounding wall of the front terrace, the 
inclined reflector over the side terrace and the pitched ceiling.  
STearly at the solo position was -15.4 dB. This is not ideal, 
but within operable range [7].  While directing acoustical 
energy back to the stage, the above mentioned surfaces also 
played an important role in sending high frequency compo-
nents back to the seats on the side and back terraces. The 
lower graph in figure 6 indicated reflection path through the 
bounding wall of the front terrace and the splayed, inclined 
reflectors on the side walls, also arrived with 80-ms delay. 
LATE ENERGY 
0
1
2
125 250 500 1000 2000 4000
Octave band center frequency (Hz)
ED
T 
(s
)
Orthogonal terrace _audience
End rectangular_On stage
Surrounded rectangular_On stage
Orthogonal terrace_On stage
 
Figure 7.  Simulated early decay time as a function of fre-
quency comparing the data taken at the audience seats sur-
rounding the stage with the data between three source-
receiver combinations on stage of three 18000-m3 halls.  
Late support (STlate), early decay time measured on stage, 
and other parameters may all be used to represent subjec-
tively perceived reverberant and support of one’s own sound.  
Early decay time measured on stage with three source-
receiver combinations may be one of the best parameter to 
represent the perceived reverberant of an orchestra.  Early 
decay time measured on stage can be much shorter than what 
measured in the audience. 
Figure 7 compares simulated early decay time taken at the 
audience seats surrounding the stage in the hall with orthogo-
nal terraces with the data taken on stage of three 18000-m3 
halls.  The value of on-stage EDT of the hall with end stage 
was 40 % shorter than the values of the audience.  The differ-
ence was fairly small when the stage was surrounded, no 
matter how the geometry of the hall was. 
SUMMARIES 
1. Controlling the size of stage is essential although stage 
side wall may not provide effective reflections from or 
to the sounds from the players near the podium.   
2. A surrounded stage provided more uniform early sup-
port than an end stage.  Subjective study would be help-
ful in clarifying the consequence of such a phenomenon. 
P2
2
P1
3
 Proceedings of the International Symposium on Room Acoustics, ISRA 2010 
29-31 August 2010, Melbourne, Australia 
 
ISRA 2010 1 
A mid-size concert hall with staggered terraced seating 
Wei-hwa Chiang (1), Wei Lin (2), I-te Yeh (1) and Yen-kun Hsu (1)  
(1) National Taiwan University of Science and Technology 43, Keelung Rd. Section 4, Taipei 106, Taiwan, R.O.C 
(2) Hwa-Hsia Institute of Technology, 111 Gong Jhuan Rd., Chung Ho, Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C 
PACS: 43.55 FW   
ABSTRACT 
The new Pingtung Performing Arts Center at Southern Taiwan features a mid-size concert hall.  The significant por-
tion of seats surrounding the stage and the extra width makes it possible to use terraced seating layout.  The terraces 
were staggered to correspond to the asymmetry of the building and to amplify the size of the reflective surfaces 
bounding the terraces.  Inclined surfaces were also appeared on upper walls where distances between walls were 
shortened to provide higher order early reflections.  Computer simulation was performed to adjust the angle of these 
diffusive and inclined surfaces to simultaneously satisfy clarity, strength, sectional balance, and stage support.  The 
surfaces near the stage were in particular tuned to direct reflections not only to the nearby audiences at the lowest 
level but also to the performers and the audiences surrounding the stage.  
INTRODUCTION 
Terraces and surrounded stage have been introduced in mid-
size concert halls recently to increase visual intimacy [1]. The 
mid-size concert hall is a major facility of the new Pingtung 
Performing Arts Center at southern Taiwan. Various schemes 
proposed for the competition phase through the design phases 
contains simple audience terraces in a rectangular outline. 
The seats surrounding the stage that can be alternatives used 
for choir makes the hall as “semi-surround”. This paper re-
ports on the development of design concept. 
 
Figure 1.  A sketch (left) and a 3D model (right) of the 
scheme proposed for the competition phase.  
DERIVING THE ROOM FORM 
Initial approach 
An initial scheme was proposed for the competition phase 
that contains the proportion of the Concertgebouw, Amster-
dam.   The total area including audience and stage was simi-
lar to which required by the program when the under balcony 
area of the Concertgebouw were removed.   The volume was 
reduced to around 14,000 m3. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2.  Computer simulated 1000-Hz band lateral 
energy fraction (LF) comparing a simplified Concertge-
bouw (top) to the scheme with removed under balcony 
seats (middle) and the scheme proposed for the competi-
tion phase (bottom). 
 
23-27 August 2010, Sydney, Australia Proceedings of 20th International Congress on Acoustics, ICA 2010 
ISRA 2010 3 
the energy loss.  This can be realized by splaying and inclin-
ing upper parts of the side walls as indicated by Cremer [5].  
Incorporating diffused, inclined surfaces above the perimeter 
seats could also benefit the seats with extra early energy. 
Figure 4 shows the distribution of 2-kHz band strength from 
a voice source comparing a rectangular configuration to pro-
gressive changes of alternative 2.  The configurations (middle 
graph) with raised inner terrace showed increased energy for 
the seats surrounding the stage. Nevertheless, the level of the 
remote seats near the corner decreased.  Incorporating in-
clined walls and reflectors attached to the walls (bottom 
graph) was effective in raising the level throughout the pe-
rimeter seats. 
 
 
Figure 4.  Distribution of 2-kHz band strength from a 
voice source comparing a rectangular configuration (top) 
to the configuration (middle) with raised inner terrace 
and the configuration (bottom) with raised inner terrace 
and inclined upper terraces and upper walls. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5.  Simulated 2-k Hz band strength from a voice 
source as a function of source-receiver distance comparing 
the frontal seats (╳) in a rectangular configuration to the 
surrounding seats in the rectangular configuration (○) and 
the optimized configuration with terrace seating (△). 
With plane perimeter walls in the rectangular configuration, 
average 2-kHz strength G surrounding seats was approxi-
mately 3dB less than the value of frontal seats with the same 
source-receiver distance (figure 5).  The difference was de-
creased approximately to 1.5dB for the optimized  
configuration with terrace seating.  This agreed with the find-
ings by Chiang et al using a directional source.  
 
SUMMARY 
This research was carried out to analyze acoustical design of 
a mid size concert hall incooperating staggered terrace seat-
ing in a hall with asymmetrical floor plan.  Conceptual de-
velopment and optimization process were both discussed 
regarding multi-dimensional criteria based on computer simula-
tions.  The major findings are: 
1. An initial scheme containing the proportion of the Con-
certgebouw, Amsterdam was proposed where two major 
terraces were staggered. Preliminary simulation showed 
that lateral energy fraction was significantly improved 
throughout all seats. 
2. Alternative schemes were developed following the simi-
lar concept but with the room width slightly reduced.  
The inner terrace was controlled around 12 m to 13 m 
away from the stage front line in order to direct early 
energy back to the players and to the surrounding seats. 
An outer loop of terraces was introduced where both 
sides of the rear walls were splayed.  An optimization 
process was performed to fine tune the height of the ter-
races and inclination of walls. Simulations of models 
progressively changed from a rectangular configuration 
to an optimized terrace configuration showed that the 
high frequency strength from a vocal source can be in-
creased by around 1.5 dB to improve the perceived tim-
bre.  
3. The reflection path originally existed in a rectangular 
form would be blocked by lower terraces on the side, as 
pointed out by Chen.   It is, therefore, necessary to fine 
tune the reflective surfaces successively from the ones 
near the stage to the remote, upper surfaces.  It is also 
important to note that adjustment of wall inclining, wall 
splaying, terrace height should be made with cautions in 
order maintain good balance among various parameters.    
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5 10 15 20 25 30
Source-receiver distance (m)
G 
2-
kH
z
(d
B
)
P3
Inclined surfaces 
P3
P3
Raised inner terrace
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/01/17
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 總計畫兼子計畫四：亞熱帶熱濕氣候區低密度住宅導入尖端熱環境控制技術
之研究－以台科一號開放性實驗屋為例
計畫主持人: 江維華
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-011-128- 學門領域: 建築都巿
無研發成果推廣資料
博士後研究員 1 1 100%  
專任助理 0 0 100%  
期刊論文 1 1 100% 
已於 2010 年 7 月
投稿於 SCI級國際
期刊 Indoor and 
Built 
Environment，目
前正在審查中。 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 6 6 100% 
篇 
分別投稿於 (1) 
2010 PEA-AIT 
International 
Conference on 
Energy and 
Sustainable 
Development: 
Issues and 
Strategies, (2) 
Proceedings of 
the 
International 
Symposium on 
Room Acoustics 
(ISRA 2010), (3) 
8th 
International 
Symposium on 
Architectural 
Interchanges in 
Asia 及 (4) 
ICBSE 2011 : 
International 
Conference on 
Building Science 
and Engineering 
等國際研討會。 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
