95年度國科會計畫成果精簡報告                   NSC 95 - 2221 - E - 343 - 005 - 
 2
稀薄氣流與連續流一體化數值計算法研究 
Unified Computational Methods for Rarefied and Continuum Flow 
  
黃俊誠 
南華大學資訊工程系 
 
Abstract 
On Continuum flow regime, the CFD methods based on the solution of Navier-Stokes equations are 
used to obtain surface pressure, temperature, the flow structure around vehicle, and the coefficients of 
aerodynamic characteristic. For rarefied gas flow regime, which has larger Knudsen number, DSMC 
method has been widely used. However, for the nearly continuum flow regime, the solution of 
Navier-Stokes equation does not obtain accurate results and the DSMC method is difficult to deduce 
reliable results because the numerical results are amenable to statistical fluctuations and the computing 
time is expensive. It is necessary to develop an unified numerical method for simulation of rarefied, 
transition, and continuum flow and used for aerodynamic design of space vehicle, especially in nearly 
continuum flow regime. Therefore, one of the purposes of this project is to develop a numerical solver for 
model Boltzmann equation by integrating descrete ordinate method and CFD method for unified 
simulations of rarefied and continuum gas flows. After serval example testing, we conclude that the 
present proposed method provides an economical and efficient way to obtain accurate numerical solutions 
of the model Boltzmann equations for rarefied gas flows, particularly for flows with low or moderate 
Mach numbers. In the future works, developing an efficient hybrid method, coupling model Boltzmann 
and Navier-Stokes solver, and further improvement on the adaptive grid points in velocity space are 
warranted. The results of this project will contribute to native space project, defense technology, and 
industry. 
 
Keywords: Rarefied gas dynamics, Model Boltzmann equation, Discrete ordinate method, High resolution 
conservative scheme, WENO scheme, Gauss-Hermite quadrature. 
 
1. Introduction 
The rarefied gas flow in transitional regime 
between continuum regime and free-molecule 
regime involved in microelectrical-mechanical 
devices, vacuum systems, and high altitude 
aerodynamics are difficult to treat either 
experimentally or theoretically. The physical 
parameter characterized the rarefied gas flow is 
the Knudsen number which is defined as the ratio 
of the mean free path to the characteristic length. 
The capability to accurately predict the rarefied 
gas flows over the complete spectrum of flow 
regimes is very important and desirable. The 
Navier-Stokes equations are inadequate to study 
rarefied gas flows, the kinetic theory and the 
Boltzmann equation needs to be used. The kinetic 
approach is valid in the whole range of the gas 
rarefaction. This is an important advantage when 
systems with multiscale physics are investigated.  
The most commonly and well known 
numerical method for studying the rarefied gas 
flow is the direct simulation Monte Carlo (DSMC) 
method [1]. Applications of DSMC method to a 
wide variety of rarefied gas flow problems have 
been illustrated. However, for low Mach number 
or nearly continuum flow, it is difficult to deduce 
reliable results because the numerical results are 
amenable to statistical fluctuations. Instead, the 
difficulties in direct solving the Boltzmann 
equation are treating the nonlinear collision term. 
Recently, Kolobov and Aristov proposed the direct 
numerical solution (DNS) of Boltzmann equation 
and a unified solver for rarefied and continuum 
flows [2]. But, it consumes computing time and is 
not suitable for practical usage. Thus, instead of 
solving the full Boltzmann equation, one solves 
the kinetic model Boltzmann equation to develop a 
more economic and efficient way of studying 
rarefied gas flow. 
In the present work, the discrete ordinate 
method was applied to the distribution function to 
replace its continuous dependency on the velocity 
space by a set of distribution functions in physical 
space and time but point functions in velocity 
space. The resulting set of differential equations 
can be cast into hypersonic conservation laws 
form with nonlinear source terms. Here, we 
applied the weighted essentially nonoscillatory 
method[3], which developed for Euler and 
95年度國科會計畫成果精簡報告                   NSC 95 - 2221 - E - 343 - 005 - 
 4
the values of the distribution function only at 
certain discrete velocites, that is 
, ,( , , , v , v , v , ) ( , , , )l m n l m mf x y z t f x y z t=  
The choice of the discrete values of velocity 
point is dictated by the consiferation that our final 
interest is not in the distribution functions 
themselves but in the moments. Hence, the 
macroscopic moments given by integrals over 
molecular velocity space can be evaluated by the 
same quadrature. The discrete ordinate method is 
then applied to the model Boltzmann equation for 
the $(v_x, v_y, v_z)$ velocity space and the 
resulting differential equations are 
, , , , , , , ,
, , , ,
v v v
( )
l m n l l m n m l m n n l m n
l m n l m n
f f f f
t x y z
f fν +
∂ ∂ ∂ ∂+ + +∂ ∂ ∂ ∂
= −
 
for Cartesian coordinate, and 
, , , , , , , , , ,
, , , ,
, , , ,( )
l m n l m n l m n l m n l m n
l m n l m n
l m n l m n
f U f V f
t J J J
W f
J f f
J
ξ η
νς
+
⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞∂ ∂ ∂+ +⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟∂ ∂ ∂⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠
⎛ ⎞∂+ = −⎜ ⎟∂ ⎝ ⎠  
for general coordinate, where  
, , v v vl m n l x m y n zU ξ ξ ξ= + +  
, , v v vl m n l x m y n zV η η η= + +  
, , v v vl m n l x m y n zW ς ς ς= + +  
Once the discrete distribution functions , ,l m nf  are 
solved, one can obtain all the moment integrals 
using Gauss-Hermite quadrature.  
3. Results and Discussions 
The first example we considered is the lid 
driven cavity flow with domain length 1. It is 
noted that the discretization in the phase space 
(physical and molecular velocity spaces) has been 
progressively refined to ensure accurate results. In 
general, in rarefied flow conditions we need a 
large number of discrete velocities, while the 
physical grid may be coarse. On the other hand, in 
continuum flow conditions the required number of 
discrete velocities may be reduced, but dense 
physical grids are important to achieve good 
accuracy. However, The present works used a 
non-uniform grid system with 101×101 grid points 
which are exponentially stretched away from the 
wall and the minimum grid space near the wall is 
depended by the Knudsen numbers. The number 
of discrete velocities is 26×26 for all cases. The 
results using Shakov model of monatomic argon 
gas are presented for the Mach number of moving 
lid is 0.9, the Knudsen numbers are 0.001, 0.0033, 
0.01 and 0.1, the Reynolds number based on lid 
velocity and length of cavity are 1483, 148, 15, 
and 1.5, respectively. 
Figures 1(a) to (d) show the computational 
results of streamline for the above cases referred 
the different Knudsen numbers. For the cases of 
Kn=0.001, 0.0033, 0.01 and 0.1, the streamline 
plot show a large primary vortex near the center of 
cavity, along with two secondary vortices at the 
bottom vortices at the bottom corners. The size of 
secondary vortex at bottom corners is decreasing 
by increasing the Knudsen number, and 
degenerated for the case of Kn=0.1. The effect of 
rarefied gas on the secondary vortex is 
investigated. 
The second example we computed is the 
unsteady starting vortex flow. Early stages of 
Figure 1, streamline for the cases of  (a) Kn=0.001, 
(b) Kn=0.0033, (c) Kn=0.01, and (d) Kn=0.1 
(a) (b)
(c) (d)
Figure 2, instantaneous streamlines for the cases of  
(a) Kn=0.01, (b) Kn=0.005, and (c) Kn=0.001. 
(a)
(b)
(c)
