 
Mobile Web 2.0 為基礎的情境感知應用架構在無所不在網路環境 
 
An Architecture of Mobile Web 2.0 Context-aware Applications in Ubiquitous 
Web 
 
 
 
Abstract 
The rapid development of the wireless communication technologies, including wireless 
sensors, intelligent mobile devices, and communication protocols, has led to diverse mobile 
devices of accessing various context-aware systems. Existing context-aware systems only 
focus on characterize the situation of an entity to exhibit the advantage of contextual 
information association. The contextual information can represent semantic implications to 
provide decidable reasoning services, but it has no mechanism to facilitating the 
interoperability and reusability among heterogeneous context-aware systems and various 
mobile devices. This study addresses these issues developing a Multi-layer Context 
Framework (MCF) that integrates Web 2.0 technologies into context-aware system for 
supporting ubiquitous mobile environment. The proposed MCF includes context sensor layer, 
context information layer, context service layer, context representation layer, mobile device 
layer, and context-aware mobile Web 2.0 application layer. To demonstrate the feasibility of 
the infrastructure, a Mobile Web 2.0-based Context-aware Attendance Monitoring System 
(MWCAMS) is implemented with ZigBee devices to provide continuous and context-aware 
monitoring of employee attendance status. 
 
 
Keyword: Context-Awareness, Mobile Web 2.0, Ubiquitous Web, Sensor Web 
 
1. Introduction 
Context awareness was first discussed by Schilit and Theimer [1] to develop 
context-aware systems that allow users to access information and services according to their 
current context, including location, time, identity, activity, and preferences. In [2], authors 
have defined context in terms of the situation of an entity. An entity may be a person, device, 
place, or object that is considered relevant to the interaction between a user and an application. 
A system is context-aware if it adopts context to provide relevant information and services to 
the user, where relevancy depends on the user's task [3]. 
Context-aware systems require an exhaustive volume of communication to ensure the 
context-aware information exchange between information providers and consumers. As new 
standards, technologies, protocols, sensors and mobile devices continue to emerge, the main 
problem of existing context-aware systems is the lack of an uniformly access to cope with the 
heterogeneous effects, including various context presentation, context information, mobile 
device constraints, and context middleware [4]. To allow interoperability among the various 
context-aware systems and mobile devices, a common standard is needed to uniformly access 
context information provided via a fundamental infrastructure. The Web 2.0 technologies 
provide a catalytic solution to this problem. 
Within the last two to three years, the Internet has greatly changed our way of sharing 
resources and information. As well known, Web 2.0 is recognized as the next generation of 
web applications proposed by T. O'Reilly [5]. The main feature of Web 2.0 applications is 
that they provide a medium for the sharing and exchange of resources [6-8]. These resources, 
such as Web feed and Web API, allow web developers to take advantage of these resources to 
enrich their own applications or produce new integrated solutions by integrating resources, 
mobile device layer, and context-aware mobile Web 2.0 application layer. 
 
3. Context-aware Applications based on Mobile Web 2.0 Technologies 
The Web 2.0 mashup is an emerging Web development paradigm that combines 
functionality from different websites and enables the loose coupling of heterogeneous Web 
resources. This study proposes a Multi-layer Context Framework for supporting most of the 
tasks involved in dealing with pervasive context-aware systems development. The Web 2.0 
technologies, including Web feed, Web API and Web presentation, can be mapped into 
context information, context service, and context presentation respectively. 
This architecture is depicted in Figure 1, which can be represented in six layers: Context 
Sensor Layer, Context Information Layer, Context Service Layer, Context Presentation Layer, 
Mobile Device layer, and Context-aware Mobile Web 2.0 Application Layer. The Web 2.0 
technologies consist of Web Feed Web API and Web Presentation, and can be mapped into 
Context Information Layer, Context Service Layer, and Context Presentation Layer of MCF, 
respectively. The context-aware mobile web 2.0 applications are across the three layers. The 
MCF provides a flexible infrastructure that context-aware developer can dynamically add, 
replace, and remove components in each layer. Each layer contains multiple technologies, all 
of them providing a service suitable to the function of that layer. 
 
Fig.1. Multi-layer Web 2.0 technologies mapping to context-aware mobile Web 
All of the layers are involved when sending request from a context-aware client to a 
context-aware application. Therefore the upper layers have to rely on the lower layers to 
process the context-aware resources over the ubiquitous Web [26]. Web Feed layer is used to 
distribute users regarding changes of contents at some context-aware systems. Web API layer 
is used to facilitate data exchange between context-aware applications and allow the creation 
of new context-aware applications. The Web Presentation layer provides independence from 
differences in context information representation by translating the format from application 
format to a valid markup language for a specific context-aware client device. Everything is 
Web 2.0 application specific at the Web 2.0 Application layer. This layer provides Web 2.0 
application services for end-users. 
 
Internet companies, such as Google, Microsoft, Yahoo, Amazon, and eBay, have published 
APIs based on web standards that allow you to access their services and context information. 
 
Context-aware Services provide Web feeds to distributing fresh context information for 
context-aware applications. The study argues that the classic context-aware system can 
survive in Web 2.0 trend by publishing Web feeds. Therefore, the classic context-aware 
system can serve as a Web feed provider. 
 
Mobile Transfer serves as a context-aware information broker for accessing of the wireless 
sensor network. It consists of information collector and information transformer. The 
information collector receives the context-aware information from sensor network through 
wireless communication. The information transformer listens to the consumer's request to 
acquire the context-aware information form information collector, and then converts the 
context-aware information into a XML-based document to response to consumer. 
The MWCA platform offers two different modes, push-based approach and pull-based 
approach, to send context information to mobile clients. The push-based approach provides 
timely propagation of up-to-date context information to mobile clients with SMS message. 
While the pull-based approach allow mobile clients at any time and any place to check for 
context information updates at MWCA platform. Push-based approach emphasizes real time, 
and pull-based approach focuses on convenience. 
 
Fig.2. The context-aware platform based on Mobile Web 2.0 
5. Implementation 
   This study developed a Mobile Web 2.0-based Context-aware Attendance Monitor System 
(MWCAMS) based on the proposed Mobile Web 2.0-based Context-aware Architecture 
(MWCA) to provide continuous and context-aware monitoring of employee attendance status. 
The dataflow-oriented architecture of MWCAMS is depicted in Fig. 3. In the MWCAMS, 
employee attendance records are collected through the IP-Link 3200, transferred and stored 
into the ASUS P320 and then provided to the ASUS TS300E5 through Internet. A sample 
client was built using Java Server Page (JSP) and AJAX to query the ASUS TS300E5, and 
display the employee attendance information in real-time.  
mobile device layer, and context-aware mobile Web 2.0 application layer. We argue to adopt 
Mobile Web 2.0 technologies as the backbone of context-aware systems to facilitate the 
sharing and exchange of context-aware resources including context-aware information and 
context-aware service. From the Mobile Web 2.0-based context-aware attendance monitoring 
system carried out in the paper, we demonstrated that Mobile Web 2.0 technologies serve as a 
core technology for Web 2.0 Mashups to enhance added value of traditional context-aware 
applications. Additionally, this study also realizes how Mobile Web 2.0 technologies can be 
integrated into context-aware applications. 
Context-awareness is a very important feature for ubiquitous computing to enhance 
current context-aware applications by finding right context information and right context 
services in the right place at the right time. The main limitation of Mobile Web 2.0 is that it 
lacks the computer-interpretability to support knowledge representation for context-aware 
applications. One future work is to investigate how to integrate Semantic Web technologies 
[27, 28] into Web 2.0-based context information to facilitate the implementation of intelligent 
Mobile Web 2.0-based context-aware applications. In recent years, cloud Computing [29, 30] 
is an emerging computing paradigm to facilitate the rapid building new generation of 
information systems via the Internet. Another topic for future work would be to extend MCF 
to support the Mobile Web 2.0-based context-aware applications for cloud computing 
environment. 
 
 
Reference 
[1] B.N. Schilit and M.M. Theimer, Disseminating active map information to mobile hosts. IEEE 
Network 8(5) (1994) 22-32. 
[2] A.K. Dey and G.D. Abowd, Toward a better understanding of context and context-awareness. 
1999. 
[3] A.K. Dey, G.D. Abowd, and D. Salber, A Context-Based Infrastructure for Smart Environments, 
in Proceedings of the First International Workshop on Managing Interaction in Smart 
Environments. 1999: Dublin, Ireland. pp. 114-128. 
[4] M. Wagner, Context as a service, in Proceedings of the 12th ACM international conference 
adjunct papers on Ubiquitous computing. 2010, ACM. pp. 489-492    
[5] T. O'Reilly. What Is Web 2.0.  2005  [cited 12 July 2010]; Available from: 
http://www.oreillynet.com/pub/a/oreilly/tim/news/2005/09/30/what-is-web-20.html. 
[6] I.V. Yakovlev, Web 2.0: Is It Evolutionary or Revolutionary? IEEE IT Professional 9(6) (2007) 
43-45. 
[7] S. Murugesan, Understanding Web 2.0. IEEE IT Professional, 9(4) (2007) 34-41. 
[8] M. KNIGHTS, Web 2.0. Communications Engineer 5(1) (2007) 30-35. 
[9] S.L. Jonghong Jeon, Technical Trends of Mobile Web 2.0: What Next?, in World. Wide Web 
(WWW) Conference. 2008: Beijing, China. 
[10] N.K. Timo Koskela, Otso Kassinen, Juuso Ohtonen, Mika Ylianttila, Towards Context-Aware 
Mobile Web 2.0 Service Architecture, in International Conference on Mobile Ubiquitous 
Computing, Systems, Services and Technologies. 2007: Papeete, French Polynesia. 
[11] S. Mart?n, et al., A context-aware application based on ubiquitous location, in The 2nd 
International Conference on Mobile Ubiquitous Computing, Systems, Services and 
Technologies. 2008. pp. 83-88. 
[12] M. Vijayalakshmi and A. Kannan, Proactive location-based context aware services using 
agents. International Journal of Mobile Communications 7(2) (2009) 232-252. 
[13] A. Boukerche, et al., Wireless sensor and actor networks context interpretation for the 
emergency preparedness class of applications. Computer Communications 30(3) (2007) 
2593-2602. 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明：本計畫之研究成果與原提案計畫之內容大致上吻合，原計畫內容所提出發
展多層式Web 2.0混搭架構，針對每一層中所使用的相關Web 2.0混搭技術來深入
探討與XML的關連性，透過本研究將發覺XML技術是Web 2.0混搭應用中的核心要
素，藉由XML的可交換性、可剖析性、語法性與標準性，可促使達到Web 2.0最重
要的特性，即是資源的交換、分享、結合與再利用，相符本計畫原先所規劃內容。
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
本計畫研究的部份成果已經發表於JOURNAL OF SOFTWARE國際期刊(EI)。I-Ching 
Hsu, An Architecture of Mobile Web 2.0 Context-aware Applications in 
Ubiquitous Web 
 1
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期： 100 年 1 月 8日 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
計畫編號 NSC 99-2221-E-150-069- 
計畫名稱 Mobile Web 2.0 為基礎的情境感知平台之設計 
出國人員
姓名 許乙清 
服務機構
及職稱 國立虎尾科技大學資工系助理教授 
會議時間 
99 年 12 月 28 日
至 
99 年 12 月 30 日 
會議地點 香港 
會議名稱 
(中文) 資訊與多媒體技術國際會議 
(英文)   International Conference on Information and 
Multimedia Technology(ICIMT 2010) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 使用 Web 2.0 技術發展射頻識別為基礎的情境感知照護系統 
(英文)  RFID-based Context-aware Healthcare System using Web 
2.0 Technologies 
 3
 
三、建議 
    參與這種國際大型的會議，能直接與來自世界各國的學者專家作討論與接觸，
能擴展國內學者的研究視野，建議國科會可多鼓勵與補助國內學者經費來參與國際
大型會議。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
會議論文集與光碟、會議議程、註冊收據、會議記念品 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5
activity). Lots of contextual information about users is collected through sensors embedded in the ubiquitous 
environment. 
Automatic attendance monitoring is an import part of any attendance management information system, 
such as Employee Attendance Systems, Learning Management Systems, Course Management Systems, and 
Student Attendance Systems. This study presents a scalable architecture to integrate wireless sensor networks 
and mobile ubiquitous technologies for dealing with attendance monitoring application in mobile ubiquitous 
computing environments. Furthermore, the proposed architecture was intended to be able to accommodate for 
other possible applications. We have investigated several wireless technologies of sensor networking for 
automatic attendance monitoring. There are some standard techniques, including ZigBee [6], Bluetooth, 
wireless LAN, etc. 
This paper is organized as follows. The next section briefly reviews some existing mobile ubiquitous 
computing applications. Section 3 describes a scalable wireless communication architecture. In Section 4, we 
implemented the RCHS to demonstrate the mobile ubiquitous computing application. Finally, summary and 
concluding remarks are included. 
 
2. Related Works  
   Traditional healthcare information systems can benefit from the use of context-aware and RFID-based 
sensor technologies []. The main problem of the mentioned above healthcare systems is that it is the lack of a 
uniformly access to cope with the heterogeneous effects, including various context-aware healthcare 
information presentation, client device constraints, and context-aware healthcare middleware. This paper 
argues that Web 2.0 technologies provide a catalytic solution to this problem. 
The Web 2.0 [16] technologies provide a medium for the sharing and exchange of resources. These 
resources, such as Web feed and Web API, allow web developers to take advantage of these resources to 
enrich their own applications or produce new integrated solutions by integrating resources. Many Internet 
companies have enabled easy access to the web resources that they provide. Anyone can create a new 
integrated mobile ubiquitous application with these resources. When an application combines resources from 
different websites to produce a new web application it is called a Web 2.0 Mashup [17]. Social Web 2.0 
technologies enables the development of mobile ubiquitous module easy to integrate the various Web 
 7
3.2 Web Services 
Web services are used to support a reusable solution for context-aware healthcare information 
acquisition and transformation to simplify the development of context-aware healthcare systems. Web 2.0 
Mashups use Web services technologies to facilitate context-aware healthcare information exchange between 
healthcare systems and allow the creation of new context-aware healthcare applications. Most of Web services 
hide the detailed protocols from the context-aware developers and make it easier for the developers to use. 
The main types of Web services are: XMLHttpRequest, XML-RPC, SOAP, and REST. 
XMLHttpRequest is not a web service technology but a Web API that provides scripting languages to 
transfer XML or other text data between a client and a server. It is used to communicate asynchronously with 
a server-side component. XML-RPC [26] is a remote procedure calling employing HTTP as the transportation 
protocol. It provides a standard for heterogeneous programs to communicate with each other regardless of 
their implementation language and system platform. Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) [27] is an 
another communications protocol for Web services that emerged immediately after the XML-RPC. It is 
developed to address some of the limitations of XML-RPC, including only for RPC over HTTP, not easily 
extendable, and no support WSDL. Representational State Transfer (REST) [28]is a style of software 
architecture used to describe how Web resources, such as web service, web page, text, database, or website, 
are defined and addressed. The main advantages of REST-based Web services are lightweight, human 
readable, and easy to build. 
 
3.3 Context-aware Healthcare Information Presentation 
Web presentation technologies are mainly to provide a valid markup language for context-aware 
healthcare information presentation on a specific device. The same context-aware healthcare information 
needs to be rendered differently on different devices. By considering the physical and performance constraints 
on a device, such as screen size, memory size, and connection bandwidth, a significant challenge in 
context-aware healthcare information rendering is automatically converting heterogeneous markup based 
documents into the desired XML-based format, which can be understood by a specific device. The 
heterogeneous markup-based context-aware healthcare information conversion is a type of transcoding [29], 
which is a technology used to adapt the visual output of healthcare information so that they can be viewed or 
 9
filters the healthcare information from the SYRD245-1N. The Transcoding Agent listens to the client’s request 
with patient ID to acquire the healthcare information form healthcare information repository, and then 
converts the healthcare information into a XML-based document to response to client. The SMS Agent is 
developed as a Web service to sent a SMS message to patient's family.   
Client Device interacts with the Context-aware Healthcare Middleware through internet connections to 
retrieve the healthcare information. Various client devices, including desktop PC, personal digital assistants 
(PDA), smart phone, and notebook, are increasingly becoming connected to the Internet. The same healthcare 
information needs to be rendered differently on different client devices. 
.  
Device Description 
SYRD245-1N 
(RFID Reader) 
The SYRD245-1N is an active RFID reader that is connected 
to an Ethernet network and the events are sent in real time. 
SYTAG245-HT1 
(RFID Tag) 
The SYTAG245-HT1 is an active RFID temperature and 
humidity sensor tag. Each SYTAG245-HT1 has a unique ID 
ties to a room for identification. 
SYTAG245-TM 
(RFID Tag) 
The SYTAG245-TM is an active RFID wristband tag that 
supports to detect the body and ambient temperature. Each 
SYTAG245-TM has a unique ID ties to a patient for 
identification. 
SYTAG245-2K 
(RFID Tag) 
The SYTAG245-2K is an active RFID tag with SOS button. 
Each SYTAG245-2K has a unique ID ties to a patient for 
identification. 
WaveCom 
Q2303A 
(GSM Modem) 
It serves as a GSM cell phone to transmit SMS messages over 
a GSM network just like an ordinary cell phone. GSM modem 
requires a SIM card to work and can be connected to computer 
to be used as modem for the SMS sending/receiving. 
ASUS TS300E5 
(Context-aware 
Healthcare 
Middleware) 
It is a PC server that serves as a Context-aware Healthcare 
Middleware to provide the function of dynamic healthcare 
information generation and transcoding. 
HP iPAQ 212 
(Mobile Client) 
It is a PDA that displays patient healthcare information using 
RSS reader. 
Acer Aspire 
M7720 
(Desk Client) 
It is a desk PC that displays patient healthcare information. 
Table 1. Devices in the RCHS 
 11
 
Figure 1. The flow-oriented RCHS architecture 
The following steps explain the message flow illustrated in Figure 1:  
1. Each patient has an SYTA245-TM tag and SYTAG245-2K tag associated with a unique ID as the patient 
identification. Each ward has a SYTA245-HT1 tag associated with a unique ID as the ward identification. 
These active RFID healthcare tags send health or environment context-aware information to the 
SYRD245-1N. 
2. SYRD245-1N receives the context-aware healthcare information and then sends them to ASUS TS300E5 
by local Ethernet. The ASUS P320 parses the employee attendance information to filter the available 
information. 
3. The ASUS TS300E5 invokes Monitor Agent to filter the available healthcare information, and then save 
into the healthcare information repository. 
3.1 It invokes Monitor Agent to filter the available healthcare information. 
3.2 It encodes the employee attendance information to an XML-based document, as shown in Fig. 3. 
3.3 It sends the XML-based document to ASUS TS300E. 
4. The step is a pull-based interaction scheme that accomplishes the following tasks: 
4.1 The various devices, such as mobile PDA or desk PC, can send a request to ASUS TS300E5 with the 
 13
  <![CDATA[The first roll call - 
           <br>status: <b>presence</b> 
           <br>time: <b>Thu, 06 Aug 2009 09:00:00 GMT</b> 
           <br>ZigBee Dongle ID : <b> IPLink3200-123</b> 
           <br>Context-aware Middleware: <b> ASUS TS300E5</b> 
   ]]></description> 
</item>….. 
</rss> 
Figure 2. Partial code of RSS healthcare information 
 
 
Figure 3. The body temperature curve is displayed with Google chart 
 
5. Conclusion and future work 
This study developed a Mobile Ubiquitous Employee Attendance Monitoring System (RCHS) based on 
the wireless communication architecture to demonstrate how mobile ubiquitous technologies could enhance 
added value of classic healthcare system. 
To provide mobile ubiquitous computing services automatically for users, they need to use users’ 
contextual information, such as users’ personal information (e.g., user identity, user preference, user profile), 
the environment information (e.g., user’s location, time, surrounding devices), the users’ activity (e.g., current 
location, activity type, the sequence of activity). Lots of contextual information about users are collected 
through sensors embedded in the environment. 
This study presents a scalable architecture to integrate wireless sensor networks and mobile technologies 
 15
network and the internet, in Proceedings of the 3rd IEEE Asia-Pacific Services Computing Conference. 
2008. p. 907-913. 
12. Jafer, E. and K. Arshak, The use of PE/PVDF pressure and temperature sensors in smart wireless 
sensor network system developed for environmental monitoring. Sensor Letters, 2008. 6(4): p. 
477-489. 
13. Wu, Y., M. Lin, and I. Wassell, Wireless sensor network: Water distribution monitoring system, in 
Radio and Wireless Symposium. 2008. p. 775-778. 
14. Lee, Y.-D. and W.-Y. Chung, Wireless sensor network based wearable smart shirt for ubiquitous health 
and activity monitoring. Sensors and Actuators, 2009. 140(2): p. 390-395. 
15. Johansen, T.A., I. Jrstad, and D.v. Thanh, Identity Management in Mobile Ubiquitous Environments, in 
Internet Monitoring and Protection. 2008, IEEE Computer Society. p. 178-183  
16. O’Reilly, T. What Is Web 2.0.  2005  [cited 10 July 2008]; Available from: 
http://www.oreillynet.com/pub/a/oreilly/tim/news/2005/09/30/what-is-web-20.html. 
17. Murugesan, S., Understanding Web 2.0. IEEE IT Professional,, 2007. 9(4): p. 34-41. 
18. Sanchez-Loro, X., et al., Ubiquitous web access: Collaborative optimization and dynamic content 
negotiation, in 2008 International Conference on Multimedia and Ubiquitous Engineering. 2008. 
19. Shadbolt, N., T. Berners-Lee, and W. Hall, The Semantic Web Revisited. IEEE Intelligent Systems, 
2006. 21(3): p. 96-101. 
20. Hsu, I.-C., SXRS: An XLink-based Recommender System using Semantic Web technologies Expert 
Systems with Applications, 2009. 36: p. 3795-3804. 
21. Hsu, I.-C., Y.K. Tzeng, and D.-C. Huang, OWL-L: An OWL-Based Language for Web Resources Links. 
Computer Standards & Interfaces, 2009. 31(4): p. 846-855. 
 
 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：許乙清 計畫編號：99-2221-E-150-069- 
計畫名稱：Mobile Web 2.0 為基礎的情境感知平台之設計 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 0 60% 
本計畫研究的部
份成果已經發表
於 JOURNAL OF 
SOFTWARE 國際期
刊(EI)。I-Ching 
Hsu, An 
Architecture of 
Mobile Web 2.0 
Context-aware 
Applications in 
Ubiquitous Web 
國外 論文著作 
研究報告/技術報告 1 0 100% 
篇 
結案報告與出國
參家國際會議報
告各一份 
 
