problem. The performance of ANN is compared 
with that from SVM. Results show that SVM and 
ANN are comparable in training but ANN can 
have highest training accuracy. However, ANN 
seems to overfit training data and thus has worse 
performance of predicting the future data when 
data number is small. 
 
Keywords: credit card fraud, SVM, neural 
network, questionnaire-responded transaction, 
fraud detection 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Credit cards have become a popular tool for 
transaction in many countries lately. However, the 
popular use of credit cards is accompanied by 
many fraudulent transactions, which cost 
hundreds of millions of dollars annually. It is, thus, 
very crucial to use an effective method to solve 
this problem and decrease losses caused by fraud.  
In handling the credit card fraud problem, 
conventionally, past real transaction data are used 
to create models for predicting a new case [1-4]. 
This approach gives a good solution in some 
conditions. However, there are no or few 
transaction data for new users. Under these 
circumstances, other users’ data are used to 
predict individual consumer behavior, and this 
usually causes poor performance since consumer 
behavior varies with individuals. Besides, the 
consumer behavior varies with time. Good 
detection systems of credit card fraud should be 
able to adapt themselves to changing consumer 
behavior [5]. Therefore, it is very important to 
prevent credit card fraud with a better approach.   
Rather than detecting credit card fraud by past 
transaction data, Chen et al. [6-10] proposed a 
novel approach to solve the fraud problem. They 
suggested building up a personalized model based 
on personal data collected by an online 
questionnaire system. Since the illegal user’s and 
the cardholder’s transaction behaviors are 
different, the fraud can be avoided from the initial 
use of a credit card.  
This paper employs the personalized approach 
based on powerful learning tools, support vector 
machines (SVM) and artificial neural networks 
(ANN), to cope with the fraud problem. Since the 
behavior of a credit card user may change over 
time, we will use both SVM and ANN to handle 
this problem. We first collect the questionnaire- 
responded transaction (QRT) data of users by 
using an online questionnaire system. The data are 
then preprocessed and trained by the SVM and 
ANN and as a result, classifiers based on each 
individual are created. The classifiers are next 
used to predict new transaction data. When a new 
transaction is going, the classifier can predict 
whether the transaction is normal or not. If the 
prediction result is abnormal, the transaction is 
considered as fraud. 
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In 
Section II, brief overviews of SVM and ANN are 
given. The proposed method is illustrated in 
Section III. Section IV describes and discusses the 
experimental results. Finally, we conclude with 
summarizing the findings in Section V. 
II. SUPPORT VECTOR MACHINE AND 
ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS 
A.  Support Vector Machines (SVM) 
SVM was developed by Vapnik [11]. It is a 
newly developed technique in recent years. It is 
one of the best tools to be used in classification. 
SVM can separate negative samples from the set 
in which contains both positive and negative 
samples with complex distribution. When the test 
data and the training data are similar, the result for 
classification is usually good. SVM is developed 
from statistical learning theory [12]. The main 
idea of SVM comes from the binary classification, 
namely to find a hyperplane as a segmentation of 
the two types to minimize the classification error. 
This hyperplane maximizes the minimum distance 
between the hyperplane to the nearest negative 
and positive points. In addition, SVM can also 
solve the problem with linear or non-linear 
segmentation [13,14], as illustrated in Figs. 1 and 
2. SVM uses some local information to do the 
training, then calculates some support vectors 
questionnaire system. We identify this kind of 
transaction data as questionnaire-responded 
transaction (QRT) data. This method is very 
appropriate for new users who only have few 
transactions or haven’t any transactions. After that, 
the data are trained by SVM and ANN and hence 
personalized classifiers are created. Finally, these 
personalized classifiers are used to predict new 
transactions as fraudulent or genuine ones. 
 
A. Data Collection 
 
To examine the effectiveness of the proposed 
approach, QRT data are collected and then 
personalized models are built up for users. To get 
representative data for a better modeling of the 
reality, we let users select the priority of six main 
classes of transaction items, and collect different 
amount of data according to pre-specified ratios. 
The design platform of the online questionnaire 
system was Linux. The program we used was Java. 
The database was SQL 2000.  
The questions on the questionnaires are 
generated in keeping with the individual’s 
consuming preference from surveys [24-27]. 
Consumer behavior changes considerably with 
each individual. It is accordingly practical to 
classify their behavior in relation to several main 
attributes. The collected personal data consist 
mainly of several parts: age, gender, transaction 
duration, transaction amount, and transaction 
items. The details are described as follows.  
1) Transaction Intervals. Each day can be 
divided into some intervals. In general, 4 or 6 
intervals are enough to characterize the consumer 
behavior.  Therefore, we divide each day into 4 
intervals. However, the transaction time should be 
divided into more intervals if the consumer 
behavior depends considerably on the transaction 
time.  
2) Transaction Item. According to the survey of 
consumer behavior, each individual has its 
preferred consuming tendency. Thus, in this paper, 
we divide transaction items into six major classes: 
eating, wearing, housing, transporting, educating, 
and recreating. Each main class can be further 
divided into more detailed subclasses. 
In this paper, we collected the data weekly from 
students. The influence of the time-varying effect 
on the prediction performance is investigated. 
 
B.  Data Training 
In this study, we employed mySVM [14] and 
back-propagation network (BPN) to train all 
personalized data. The BPN tool we used is the 
SmartNeuron 0.42, which was developed by 
Professor C.C. Chang with Department of 
Logistics Engineering and Management, National 
Taichung Institute of Technology (NTIT), 
Taichung, Taiwan. SmartNeuron was built up by 
Visual C++. 
 1) Support Vector Machines: For mySVM, the 
training and testing of QRT data were running on 
a Pentium III 667 PC and Windows 2000 
Professional operating system.  
To get better results with mySVM, different 
kernels were selected and different parameters 
were set to test so as to find better performance of 
prediction. Preliminary training was performed to 
get optimal parameters for good results. Three 
types of kernels were investigated: dot, 
polynomial, and radial. The degree of polynomial 
kernel was varied from 1 to 5. The first-round 
results demonstrate that a radial kernel can have 
better testing accuracy. Therefore, the base 
classifier we use for further studies is the radial 
kernel. 
2) Back Propagation Networks: Some 
parameters are needed to train data using BPN. 
Among the most important parameters are the 
numbers of hidden layer, hidden nodes, and 
training epochs, learning rate, and momentum rate. 
The setting of the parameter values remains as an 
art rather than a science. Complicated problems 
can be increasingly better modeled by adding 
hidden layers, but the improvement generally 
comes with a related cost in terms of training time 
and data overfitting. To improve the above 
problems, we evaluated some parameter values in 
preliminary training, which decided the number of 
hidden layer, the number of nodes, and the 
number of epochs, based on recommendations 
from previous literature and our past experience. 
parameters of these classifiers, or to select a 
particular one. The prediction is performed in the 
final stage to investigate the performance of a 
classifier on future data. For convenience, we call 
the accuracy in the second stage the tested 
accuracy and the accuracy in the third stage the 
predicted accuracy.   
The comparison of the tested accuracy between 
SVM and BPN is shown in Table I. The results are 
trained and tested on the weekly data. For 
mySVM, the results are based on leave-one-out 
cross validation (LOO) and 10-fold cross 
validation (10-fold CV). There are 245 data for 
each week. For BPN, the results are based on 2 
hidden layers with 3, 6 nodes, respectively. Rt is 
0.8. We can see from this table that BPN and 
SVM are comparable, but there is a larger 
variation of accuracy for BPN. However, BPN can 
have maximum tested accuracy. The tested 
accuracy P depends strongly on the contradiction 
ratio, Rc, as we can see from Table I.  
TABLE I  
COMPARISON OF TESTED ACCURACY BETWEEN 
SVM AND BPN 
mySVM 
Weeks 
LOO 10-fold CV 
BPN Contradiction ratio, Rc 
1 0.95 0.94 0.98 0.21 
2 0.94 0.94 0.92 0.24 
3 0.97 0.96 0.94 0.19 
4 0.83 0.82 0.82 0.31 
5 0.89 0.89 0.88 0.28 
6 0.83 0.83 0.86 0.31 
The comparison of predicted accuracy on future 
data between SVM and BPN is depicted in Table 
II. In this experiment, the data in the former week 
are best trained and then used to predict the data 
in the following week. For example, the 
first-week data are optimally trained and next the 
second-week data are regarded as test data and 
predicted. The results show that the predicted 
accuracy also depends strongly on the 
contradiction ratio, Rc. The accuracy difference 
between the tested accuracy and the predicted 
accuracy with BPN seems to be larger than that 
with mySVM, as compared with Table I and Table 
II. 
TABLE II 
COMPARISON OF PREDICTED ACCURACY BASED 
ON THE DATA OF THE LAST WEEK 
Weeks 
trained & 
tested predicted
mySVM BPN 
Contradiction ratio, 
Rc, based on 2 
adjacent weeks’ 
data 
1 2 0.8 0.74 0.15 
2 3 0.91 0.82 0.13 
3 4 0.73 0.72 0.21 
4 5 0.79 0.69 0.22 
5 6 0.74 0.69 0.23 
 
Table III shows the results of predicted 
accuracy. The data before the next week are first 
accumulated, then trained and tested. After an 
optimized classifier is selected, the data on the 
next week are predicted. BPN outperforms SVM 
in this experiment, as displayed in Table III. 
 
TABLE III  
COMPARISON OF PREDICTED ACCURACY BASED 
ON THE ACCUMULATED DATA OF THE PREVIOUS 
WEEKS 
Weeks 
trained & tested predicted mySVM BPN
1 + 2 3 0.91 0.90
1 + 2 + 3 4 0.73 0.91
1 + 2 + 3 + 4 5 0.72 0.89
1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 6 0.67 0.78
 
A good success rate on the current training set 
does not mean a good success rate on future data, 
since the trained data may be overfitted. To 
investigate the relation between the overfitting 
and the tested accuracy, 30 different tests are 
performed. The base case is performed using BPN 
with 2 hidden layers, having 3 and 6 nodes, 
respectively. The accuracy difference, DP, is 
defined as the difference between the tested 
accuracy on the data of the first week and the 
predicted accuracy on the data of the second week. 
Figure 6 shows that the tested accuracy and the 
accuracy difference have a high correlation 
coefficient, indicating that higher tested accuracy 
may cause a higher degree of overfitting. Thus, 
there exists a compromise between tested 
accuracy and predicted accuracy, depending on 
the purpose of the prediction.  
and BPN can have good tested accuracy. However, 
higher tested accuracy may have a higher degree 
of tendency to overfitting, which in turn causes 
worse prediction on the future behavior. In 
addition, the prediction accuracy depends strongly 
on the contradiction ratio. Further studies are 
encouraged to reduce the influence of the 
contradicted data on prediction accuracy and to 
find an optimal solution with both good tested 
accuracy and predicted accuracy.  
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
The authors would like to thank Professor C.C. 
Chang, Department of Logistics Engineering and 
Management, National Taichung Institute of 
Technology and Miss Fang Liu, Department of 
Probability and Statistics, School of Mathematical 
Sciences, Peking University, for their help during 
the course of this paper. This work was supported 
by the National Science Council under grant no. 
NSC 94-2213-E-025-010. 
REFERENCES 
[1] F.S. Maes, K. Tuyls, B. Vanschoenwinkel, and 
B. Manderick, “Credit Card Fraud Detection 
Using Bayesian and Neural Networks,” 
Proceedings of Neuro Fuzzy, Havana, Cuba, 
2002. 
[2] P. Chan, and S. Stolfo, “Toward Scalable 
Learning with Nonuniform Class and Cost 
Distributions: A Case Study in Credit Card 
Fraud Detection,” Proceedings of the Fourth 
International Conference on Knowledge 
Discovery and Data Mining, pp. 164-168, 
AAAI Press, Menlo Park, California, 1997. 
[3] P.K. Chan, W. Fan, A. L. Prodromidis, and S.J. 
Stolfo, “Distributed Data Mining in Credit 
Card Fraud Detection,” IEEE Intelligence 
Systems, pp. 67-74, Nov.-Dec., 1999. 
[4] R. Brause, T. Langsdorf, and M. Hepp, 
“Neural Data Mining for Credit Card Fraud 
Detection,” Proceeding of IEEE International 
Conference on Tools with Artificial 
Intelligence, 1999. 
[5] S. J. Hong and S. M. Weiss, “Advances in 
Predictive Models for Data Mining” Pattern 
Recognition Letters, pp. 55-61, 2001. 
[6] R.C. Chen, M.L, Chiu, Y.L. Huang, and L.T. 
Chen, “Detecting Credit Card Fraud by Using 
Questionnaire-Responded Transaction Model 
Based on Support Vector Machines,” Lecture 
Notes in Computer Science (LNCS), Vol. 3177, 
pp. 800-806, 2004. 
[7] R.C. Chen, T.S. Chen, Y.E. Chien, and Y.R. 
Yang, “Novel Questionnaire-Responded 
Transaction Approach with SVM for Credit 
Card Fraud Detection,“ Lecture Notes in 
Computer Science (LNCS), Vol. 3497, pp. 
916-921, 2005. 
[8] R.C. Chen, C.J. Lin, L.J. Lai, and Y.E. Chien, 
“Employing Support Vector Machines to 
Detect Credit Card Fraud for New Card 
Users,” Asian Journal of Information 
Technology, Vol. 4, No. 2, pp. 223-228, 2005. 
[9] R.C. Chen, C.C. Chang, and S.T. Luo, and S.S. 
Li, “Detection of Credit Card Fraud by Using 
Support Vector Machines and Neural 
Networks,” Proceedings of the Fourth 
International Conference on Information and 
Management Science, Kunming, China, pp. 
310-315, 2005. 
[10] R.C. Chen, T.S. Chen, and C.C. Lin, “A New 
Binary Support Vector System for Increasing 
Detection Rate of Credit Card Fraud,” 
accepted by International Journal of Pattern 
Recognition and Artificial Intelligence, 2005. 
[11] V.N. Vapnik, The Nature of Statistical 
Learning Theory, Springer, 1995. 
[12] http://www.kernel-machines.org/ 
[13] C. Corinna and V. Vladimir, “Support Vector 
Networks,” Machine Learning, Vol. 20. pp. 
273-297, 1995. 
[14] S. Rüping, mySVM-Manual, AI Unit 
University of Dortmund, October 30, 2000. 
[15] C.J.C. Burges, “A Tutorial on Support Vector 
Machines for Pattern Recognition,” Data 
Mining and Knowledge Discovery, Vol. 2, 
No.2, pp. 955-974, 1998. 
[16] R.C. Chen, J. Chen, T.S. Chen, C.H. Hsieh, 
