can’t be got by linear analysis.  Moreover, the 
behaviors of dc-dc resonant converters can be derived 
only by system dc operating point. Involving load 
impedance complicates system analysis in some cases. 
Piezoelectric transformer (PT) has been utilized in 
DC/DC converters for its merits of high efficiency, 
small size, low EMI and high power density. Many 
researches are presented to deal with the 
nonlinearity of rectifier load. But no work can cover 
the situation when the system operates in burst mode 
control. In this paper, a new analysis is presented 
for exactly describing the behaviors of the system 
under burst mode control. A discrete PT DC/DC 
converter will be built for verification. It is 
expected that the system efficiency and load 
equivalent impedance can be evaluated more exactly. 
英文關鍵詞： Piezoelectric transformer, DC/DC converter, Zero 
voltage switching. 
 
II 
 
研究計畫中英文摘要： 
(一)中文摘要 
 
關鍵詞: 壓電變壓器,直流轉直流,零電壓切換. 
 
現代電子系統需要高電能密度，低電磁干擾以及高效率的能源轉換器。針對不同的系統
需求，人們選擇不一樣的轉換器架構。因此，一種工作波形為弦波的共振式電能轉換器變的
越來越普及，他的電磁雜訊小，並且非常容易達到零電壓切換以降低切換能量損失。 
 然而，共振式直流轉換器的負載是一個非線性的整流器，這讓系統的分析變得困難。傳
統共振式直流轉換器的分析將整流器包含負載等效為一個線姓電阻，如此一來，傳統線性的
共振式分析可應用於共振式直流轉換器。但在有些應用中，例如使用脈衝模式控制的共振式
直流轉換器，他的負載等效電阻無法由傳統的交流分析獲得。此外，由於共振式電路的工作
行為可由系統輸出入電壓導出，將負載納入考量會把系統的分析複雜化。 
壓電變壓器具有體積小，效率高，低電磁干擾以及高能量密度等優勢，目前已應用於直
流/交流與直流/直流轉換器。由於壓電變壓器應用於直流/直流轉換器時的整流器負載行為
是非線性的，許多研究對此負載提出等效電路，但是這些等效電路並無法滿足所有的操作條
件。根據壓電變壓器的操作特性而言，許多直流/直流的應用使用脈衝模式控制系統輸出端
電壓，但並沒有研究能夠準確的描述當系統操作於脈衝模式下的等效負載情形。本計畫預計
提出一新的負載模型以適用於工作於脈衝模式下的直流轉直流壓電變壓轉換器，並以離散電
路驗證之。預期將能更準確得計算出系統效率以及等效輸出阻抗。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IV 
 
Table of Contents: 
                                                                   
1. Contents                                                   1   
1.1 Introduction                                         1       
1.2 Motivation                                           2 
1.3 Conventional Analysis                                2 
1.4 Research Method                                      7 
1.5 Results and Discussion                              19 
2. References                                                24 
3. Self-Assessment                                           25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
Piezoelectric transformer has the advantages of high efficiency low Electro-Magnetic 
Interference (EMI) noises and high power density [1, 2]. It is good for drive cold cathode 
fluorescent Lamp [3-5] and also used in dc-dc applications [6-10]. 
 
1.2 Motivation  
 
In resonant circuits, the loading condition affects how the circuit operates. The voltage 
gain and efficiency are both affected by loading condition. In ac output applications, the 
system analysis is intuitive. System gain and efficiency and other characteristics can be 
estimated by basic circuit analysis method. But, in resonant dc-dc converters, the load of 
resonant circuit is a rectifier which is not a linear component. That complicates system 
analysis. 
To simplify the loading effect analysis, the conventional resonant dc-dc converter analysis 
builds the load equivalent circuit. That said a resonant converter can be obtained by cascading 
a resonant dc-ac inverter and a rectifier. The inverter can be replaced by a voltage or current 
source. The corresponding voltage-driven or current-driven rectifiers can be replaced by the 
equivalent impedance, defined as the ratio of the fundamental components of the rectifier input 
voltage and input current. So the equivalent impedance of rectifier can be represented as an 
expression of load resistance. Thus, further analysis and design of a resonant dc-dc converter 
becomes convenient. In the researchers [6-9], PT dc-dc converters behaviors are described 
well and completely by applying the typical resonant dc-dc converter analysis method. 
But, the fact should be known that the traditional researches are under the assumption that 
the inverter output power is totally absorbed by the system load. However, this condition does 
not be held in a PT dc-dc converter using burst mode control. In the situation of burst mode 
control, the PT output power not only flows into the system load but also charges the load 
capacitor. So, the equivalent impedance looking into the rectifier can’t obtain only by 
considering the reflection of the load resistance. That means the traditional rectifier analysis 
can’t be applied to the PT dc-dc converter with burst mode control. 
Involving loading condition in system analysis sometimes makes analysis complex, since 
the system behaviors is determined by system dc operating point rather than by system loading 
condition. Thus, in this thesis, the loading condition is removed form system analysis. A novel 
analysis is presented and implemented in this research. 
 
1.3 Conventional analysis 
 
Fig. 1 is block diagrams of resonant power converters. For analysis simplification, a 
resonant circuit is obtained by cascading a resonant dc-ac inverter and a rectifier. The input dc 
power source is converted to an ac power source by the inverter and then the ac power source 
is converted to a dc source. For isolation purpose, a high frequency transformer can be added 
between the inverter and rectifier. 
 
4 
 
Fig. 3 is a block diagram of a typical resonant dc-dc converter. The resonant converter 
consists of a resonant inverter and a rectifier. The rectifier should be compatible to the 
resonant inverter. A current-driven rectifier should be connected to a resonant inverter with 
current output and a voltage-driven rectifier should be used in a voltage output resonant 
inverter. The dc voltage transfer function of the converter MV is a product of the dc voltage 
transfer function of resonant inverter MVI and the dc voltage transfer function of the rectifier 
MVR. 
                      (1) 
 
 
Fig. 3 Block diagram of a resonant dc-dc converter 
 
The converter efficiency η can be got by multiplying the efficiency of converter ηI and the 
efficiency of rectifier ηR. 
ηR                                 (2) 
Then a resonant dc-dc converter shown as Fig. 4 is taken as an example. This series 
resonant circuit is driven by a half bridge driver and connected to a current driven rectifier. In 
this case, a half wave rectifier is used. 
 
 
Fig. 4 A half bridge resonant dc-dc converter 
 
The inverter can be divided into two part, switching part and resonant part as shown in 
Fig. 5. The dc voltage gain of resonant inverter MVI is defined as a product of the voltage gain 
of switching part MVSP and the voltage gain of resonant part MVRP.  
6 
 
                        (8) 
Where VF is the forward voltage of diodes, RF is the turn on resistance of diodes, rC is the 
ESR of the filter capacitor and RL is system loading resistance. 
The dc voltage gain and efficiency of resonant inverter and rectifier are given, thus the dc 
voltage gain and efficiency of resonant dc-dc converters can be calculated correspondingly. 
In a resonant dc-dc converter, there are several ways to regular output voltage. The most 
common way to regular system output voltage is tuning operating frequency. When the 
operating frequency shifts, the input equivalent impedance of system varies correspondingly 
and then the system voltage gain varies correspondingly. Finally, the divided voltage cross 
system load is kept constant.  
For circuit simplicity or for high efficiency, another voltage regulation control, burst 
mode control, is used. The converter with burst mode control regulates system output voltage 
by turning on and turning off the driving circuit. When the sensed system output voltage is 
higher than the designed level, the driving circuit is turned off to lower the output circuit. 
When the sensed system output voltage is lower than the designed level, the driving circuit is 
turned on and passing energy to system load again. Two advantages are obvious. Turning on 
and turning off the driving circuit is easier than tuning operating frequency. Second, the 
resonant circuit can operated around its high efficienct region. A major drawback should be 
noticed that burst mode control may cause higher output voltage ripple. 
In resonant dc-dc converters, the voltage gain varies with the operating frequency and 
loading. Fig. 6 shows the relationship between voltage gain, operating frequency and loading 
condition. In frequency control, the output voltage can be kept constant by varying operating 
frequency. For example, when the load becomes heavier from load A to Load B, the operating 
frequency will shift from f1 to f2 to keep the voltage gain the same. Fig. 7 (a) shows the 
current flow of this case when the system stays at operating point b. The system output energy 
is totally absorbed by system load.  
But in resonant dc-dc converters with burst mode, the thing is not the same. The system 
turns on and turns off to regulate output voltage and the operating frequency is kept constant. 
So, when the load becomes heavier from load A to load B, the system will be shut down to 
prevent the converter passing more energy to system load. In this case, the current flow is as 
Fig. 7 (b) described. When the system turns on, the energy not only passes to system load but 
also be stored in the capacitor. That means, the equivalent impedance can’t be estimated by 
reflecting the load resistance. 
The behaviors of system turned on can be derived by two methods described in last two 
sections. But since there are many types resonant dc-dc converter, different analysis methods 
are adequate for different applications. In the following chapter, analysis of a PT dc-dc 
converter and a single stage LLC dc-dc converter are introduced. 
 
8 
 
OUT
2
OUT
2
L
L
OUT
OUT
CN'C
N
R
'R
N
V
'V
=
=
=
       (9) 
 
 
Fig. 8 PT equivalent circuit of driving a resistive load 
 
Fig. 9 presents the simplified equivalent circuits. The voltage gain of PT MPT can be 
calculated according to the simplified equivalent circuits respectively. 
 
 
Fig. 9 Simplified equivalent circuit. 
 
RL’ 
Cs
VIN COUT’
RS LS CS 
RS LS CS 
CIN COUT 
1 : N 
VIN 
VOUT 
RL 
PT equivalent circuit 
10 
 
 
Fig. 10 Phase control scheme 
 
In different applications, the phase control strategies differ. Where to sense operating 
waveform and how to design a suitable phase difference are not the same in different systems. 
In the follows, two design strategies of the applications, PT dc-ac inverter and PT dc-dc 
converter, are introduced. 
In PT dc-ac inverters, phase control has been widely used [6-10]. From (11) and (12), 
the fact is known that when the load impedance matches the output capacitor, the system 
reaches maximum efficiency. So, in PT dc-ac inverters, the phase-lock loop circuit senses and 
locks the PT output waveforms. 
The phase angle of RL and Cout can be calculated by (10) as: 
     1 1tan ( ' ') tan ( )r OUT L OUT LC R C Rθ ω ω− −∠ = − = −     (13) 
Because the bandwidth of PT is narrow, the variation of operating frequency is small 
and then the impedance of PT output capacitor is almost constant. As a result, the phase 
difference between PT output current and voltage is almost constant under the same loading 
condition.  
So, given an equivalent impedance of CCFL, the phase difference between PT output 
current and voltage can be calculated to achieve maximum efficiency. Then, phase-lock loop 
circuit can be applied to keep the phase angle as designed. 
Phase control also has been widely used in PT dc-dc converters. Resonance frequency 
control presented in 2001 is a typical two loops PT dc-dc control system. the typical block 
diagram is shown in Fig. 11. The first loop at PT primary side locks the phase difference 
between PT input voltage and current. It is a popular strategy that phase control is 
implemented at system primary side. Since the load of PT dc-dc converters are a rectifier that 
is not a linear component, the loading effect and behaviors are not the same with linear load 
system. PT output waveforms are shown in Fig.12. The output voltage phase is driven by PT 
output current. That means, the phase angle at PT output doesn’t contain effective 
information. So, in PT dc-dc converter, phase-lock loop circuit is usually implemented at 
system primary side. 
12 
 
in a PT dc-dc converter using burst mode control.   
The conventional analyses equalize the rectifier and system load as an equivalent 
impedance to evaluate how much power is lost at PT mechanical resistance and how much 
power is transferred into system load. But, the conventional analyses are based on the 
assumption that the converter output power is totally absorbed by system load. So, the load 
impedance can be replaced by equivalent impedance. In some cases, like the converters using 
burst mode control, the output power of inverters not only transfers to system load but also 
charges load capacitor to raise system output voltage.  That leads to an important fact that 
the output power of resonant inverter is not equal to the loading power. So, the method of ac 
equivalent impedance can’t be applied to evaluate how much current flow through the 
converters and how much power is transferred into system load. There should be another 
method to deal with the situation. 
In burst mode PT dc-dc converters, the output power during turn-on time of PT can be 
evaluated by multiplying PT output current and output voltage. Then, the rectifier load can be 
replaced by a power consumption component rather than equivalent impedance. The 
remaining problem is that how to build the power consumption component.  
The concept of energy equilibrium helps to calculate the PT output power and the 
equivalent impedance looking into PT. The basic idea is that, the input power equals to the 
sum of conduction losses and inverter output power. The operating current waveforms are 
almost sinusoidal waveforms because the Q factor of PT R-L-C resonant tank is very high 
and the bandwidth is very narrow. This property helps a lot to evaluate PT output power.  
In the follows, the analysis based on energy equilibrium is presented in two PT dc-dc 
converters with current driven rectifier and voltage driven rectifier respectively. 
Fig. 13 is a PT DC/DC converter using current-driven rectifier. PT is driven by a 
half-bridge driver and loaded with a half-wave rectifier. The PT output corresponding 
waveforms are depicted as Fig.14 where PT output voltage is clamped by load voltage Vo to a 
square wave and PT output current is converted to a sinusoid wave by the PT R-L-C tank of 
high quality factor.  
 
 
 
Fig.13 PT DC/DC converter with half-wave rectifier 
 
14 
 
The angle θ0 shown in Fig. 14 can be obtained by the equivalent circuit of PT loaded 
with two diode parasitic capacitors shown is Fig. 15. In stage II, two diodes are reverse 
biased. The load of PT becomes two parasitic capacitors. θ0 can be obtained by the 
waveforms shown in Fig. 16               
0cos
IN
mag C
IN
mag mag O
VV Z
Z
V V Vθ
⎧ = ×⎪⎨⎪ × = −⎩
                        (19) 
Where ZIN is the impedance looking into PT and ZC is the total impedance at PT output 
including PT output capacitor and two diode parasitic capacitors. Thus, cosθ0 can be got. 
Substituting cosθ0 into (19), the PT input current is found. 
Efficiency can be obtained by equation: 
     LC
IN
P
P
η =          (20) 
In a current-driven rectifier load application, higher output system load is good for 
efficiency because the system can absorb more percentages of input power. 
   
 
 
Fig. 15 Equivalent circuit of PT loaded with two diode parasitic capacitances. 
 
 
Fig. 16 PT output voltage waveforms of capacitive load and rectified load 
 
Fig. 17 is a PT DC/DC converter with voltage-driven rectifier. The corresponding 
waveforms are depicted as Fig. 18. The output inductor current ILO is charged and discharge 
by VPTout and Vo alternatively during the time TON and TOFF. During the time TON, the inductor 
16 
 
  
Fig. 18 Waveforms of PT loaded with current type rectifier 
 
The fact is true that higher inductor current ILO provides system load more energy. This 
derivation gives a concept that the lower output voltage or the larger rectifier inductor keeps 
higher average inductor current ILO. So, a voltage-driven rectifier is good for low output 
voltage application. 
The fact is known that the PT input current contain the information of system output 
voltage. So, the burst mode control can be implemented at PT primary side. 
In the follows, two control loops, phase lock control and burst control, are designed. Fig. 
20 is the phase-lock control circuit block diagram. The PT input voltage and current are 
locked in a phase difference,φ , to meet ZVS requirement. PT input current is sensed from 
the ground of PT with a small series resistor. Two low pass filter connected to the input of 
phase detector is designed for smooth the sensed current signal and for adjust the phase 
difference φ  between PT input current and PT input voltage. The driver IC, IR2104, 
receives the output signal of VCO and generates high/low side signals to drive the power 
NMOSs. 
A voltage regulation control loop is shown in Fig. 20. The expected operating waveforms 
are depicted in Fig. 21. Isense is the PT input current waveform which is sensed at PT ground 
side with a small resistor. As the analysis shown before, the PT input current decreases when 
the output voltage increases. So, when the system turns on, the input current envelope is going 
to down. A peak detector is used to sense the peak value of PT input current. The output of 
peak detector is compared with a reference VREF shown in Fig 21. When the output of peak 
detector is lower than the reference voltage, the system are going to be shut down. Remember, 
lower input current means higher PT output voltage. But there is a problem that there would be 
fault triggers when the system starts to resonate. 
 
18 
 
 
Fig. 20 Voltage regulation control block diagram 
 
 
Fig. 21 Voltage regulation operating waveform 
 
20 
 
and Fig. 24(b). The PT resonant inverter transfers energy to load continuously. The sensed 
RMS voltage of PT input current is 194mV. Fig. 24(c) and Fig. 24(d) shows the condition 
that the load resistance is 105kΩ. Since the energy transferred to rectifier exceeds the load 
absorbed, the system enters burst mode. PT resonant inverter turns on and off alternatively as 
shown in Fig. 24(c). The sensed RMS voltage of PT input current in Fig. 24(d) is 192mV 
which is almost the same as Fig. 24(b). It is the evidence that the impedance looking into PT 
only depends on the output voltage. It can also show that the efficiency mainly depend on the 
output voltage in PT DC/DC converter with burst mode control. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
22 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 26 ZVS waveforms under phase angle 22o.(a) Output voltage is 20V. (b) Output Voltage is 
50V 
In Fig 27, the phase angle is increasing to 30o under the cases of 20V, 50V and 70V 
system output voltage. ZVS is achieving when system output voltage is 20V and 50V, but is 
failed in 70V condition. 
 
(a) 
24 
 
2. References 
[1] C.Y. Lin, “Design and Analysis of Piezoelectric Transformer Converters,” Ph.D. dissertation, 
Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, 1997. 
[2] C.Y. Lin and F. Lee, “C. Design of a piezoelectric transformer converter and its matching 
networks.” in Proc. Power Electronics Specialists Conference, Volume 1. pp. 607-612, 1994. 
[3] G. Spiazzi and S. Buso, “Analysis of Large-Signal and Small-Signal Instabilities in 
Piezoelectric Transformers Driving Cold Cathode Fluorescent Lamps,” in Proc. Applied 
Power Electronics Conference and Exposition, Volume 3, pp. 1495 - 1500, 2004. 
[4] G. Spiazzi and S. Buso, ”Small-signal analysis of cold cathode fluorescent lamp ballasts”, in 
Proc. IEEE Power Electronics Specialists Conference, pp. 2783-2789, Recife, 2005. 
[5] S. Ben-Yaakov, M.M. Peretz and S. Lineykin, “Stability of cold cathode fluorescent lamps 
driven by Piezoelectric Transformers”, in Proc. IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference, 
pp. 1517–1522, Dallas, Tx. 2006. 
[6] M.J. Prieto, J. Díaz, J.A. Martín-Ramos, F.F Linera and F. Nuño, “Design Guidelines for 
DC/DC Converter Using Piezotransformer,” in Proc. IEEE Industrial Electronics Society 
Conference, Vol. 1, pp. 49-54, 2002. 
[7]  J. Díaz, J.A. Martín-Ramos, M.J. Prieto and F. Nuño, “A double-closed loop DC/DC 
converter based on a piezoelectric transformer” in Proc. IEEE Applied Power Electronics 
Conference, pp. 1423-1428, 2004. 
[8] G. Ivensky, S. Bronstein and S. Ben-Yaakov, “Analysis and Design of a Piezoelectric 
Transformer AC/DC Converter in a Low Voltage Application,” in Proc. IEEE Power 
Electronics Specialists Conference, Vol. 2, pp. 409-414, 2002. 
[9] G. Ivensky, S. Bronstein and S. Ben-Yaakov, “A comparison of AC/DC piezoelectric 
transformer converters with current doubler and voltage doubler rectifiers” IEEE Trans. 
Power Electronics, Vol. 19, pp. 1446-1453, Nov. 2004. 
[10] E. Dallago and A. Danioni, “Resonance frequency tracking control for piezoelectric 
transformer DC-DC converter,” Electronics Letters 25th, Vol. 37 no. 22, pp. 1317-1318, 2001. 
[11] H. Kakehashi, T. Hidaka, T. Ninomiya, M. Shoyama, H. Ogasawara and Y. Ohta, “Electronic 
ballast using piezoelectric transformers for fluorescent lamps,” in Proc.  Power Electronics 
Specialists Conference, pp.29-35, 1998. 
[12] S. Nakashima, T. Ninomiya, H. Ogasawara and H. Kakehashi, “Piezoelectric-transformer 
inverter with maximum-efficiency tracking and dimming control.” in Proc. IEEE Applied 
Power Electronics Conference, pp. 918-923, 2002. 
[13] C.D. Wey, T.L. Jong and C.T. Pan, “Design and analysis of an SLPT-based CCFL driver”, 
IEEE Trans. Industrial Electronics, Volume 50, Issue 1, pp. 208-217, Feb. 2003. 
[14] C.S. Moo, W.M. Chen and H.K. Hsieh, “Electronic ballast with piezoelectric transformer for 
cold cathode fluorescent lamps,” in Proc. IEE Electric Power Applications, Vol.150, 
pp.278-282, Nov. 2003. 
[15] C.H. Lin, Y. Lu, Y.K. Lo and K.J. Pai, ”Application of maximum-efficiency tracking control 
for backlight module based on phase-locked loop technique” in Proc. IEEE Asia-Pacific 
Conference on Circuits and Systems, pp.641-644, 2004. 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/12/12
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 壓電式直流轉換器的分析與設計
計畫主持人: 陳秋麟
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-002-218- 學門領域: 電力電子
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
