中文摘要 
本計畫為開發一新型可調變焦距透鏡模組，利用液晶材料之雙折射率特性
及液晶分子隨電場方向排列的特性，等效為漸變折射率(GRIN)之特殊光學透
鏡，再加以調變不同驅動電壓大小，近而改變液晶透鏡之等效折射率。此折射率
可產生焦距隨著電壓大小不同而有所變化，達到變焦之效果，得以取代傳統之玻
璃或塑膠鏡片。計畫第一年，首先架構出變焦液晶透鏡之基本理論推導模型，並
分析驗證液晶透鏡之光學性質與電場之關係，並運用模擬軟體對電場及光學性質
加以佐證，設計出特殊驅動方法之液晶透鏡，並且製作液晶透鏡實體，搭配鏡頭
模組驗證理論分析。另外建立標準之光學檢測系統，觀察液晶透鏡之干涉條紋推
導出透鏡之光學成像性質，並建構一套焦距量測系統，以配合完成自動變焦液晶
透鏡模組之前置作業。第二年開始以第一年所製作液晶透鏡為基礎，並整合整合
子計畫五、子計畫六研發材料之新型液晶透鏡，配合第一年所建構之光學檢測系
統加以分析實驗，並於第二年後期結合子計畫三之驅動晶片使智慧型照相模組前
端部件更趨於完善。第三年將液晶透鏡與驅動晶片封裝與模組化，並加入子計畫
一之防手振系統並利用子計畫三之數位影像修正系統補償提升影像品質，後期與
CMOS 影像感測器結合，最後完成自動對焦/變焦之液晶透鏡與光學防手振之智
慧型像機系統整合。 
 
關鍵字：液晶透鏡、可變焦透鏡、自動對焦鏡頭、模組化鏡頭 
I 
III 
response offered by sub-projects 5 and 6 are adopted for a better tunable LC lens. 
Also conducted in this year are combining the developed LC lens with the color 
compensation chip developed by sub-project 3 to achieve high color gamma. In the 
last year, the maturally-developed LC CMM is integrated with the image stabilizer 
developed by sub-project 1 to form the novel CCM for camera phones, as proposed 
by the net-proposal.   
 
Keywords: Liquid crystal lens, tunable focal length lens, auto focusing lens module, 
compact camera module (CCM). 
一、 前言 
近年來，行動電話除了原有之通話功能外，也增加了照相攝影、音樂播放及
網路傳輸等功能。但目前手機相機仍有許多特性無法與一般相機相比，在手機有
限的空間和電力的情況下，仍有許多技術上的問題需克服。傳統的變焦透鏡組為
使用定焦距之塑膠或玻璃鏡片，具有一定的清晰成像品質 ，然而於變焦過程需
經過一定的移動行程，造成在手機相機上有其限制存在，在現今手機要求輕薄的
情況下，將液晶變焦透鏡應用於手機鏡頭之構想油然而生。 
本子計畫相較於現存之液晶透鏡之創新性為--建立一系列新型液晶透鏡，包
含電極結構之設計、驅動電路之設計以及利用相關之影像檢測最佳化本計畫之液
晶透鏡設計。本子計畫期許發展新型液晶透鏡取代傳統玻璃或是塑膠鏡片組成之
鏡群組，預期可以大大減少鏡群組之體積。舊有之液晶透鏡，由於透鏡孔徑大時
將導致許多成像品質的問題，因此若要應用於「自動對焦」的商品化上，無法直
接將舊有之液晶透鏡直接放置於相機模組的感測器前，因為舊有之液晶透鏡的孔
徑過小，將限制入射光的範圍，使得感測影像受到限制，導致影像品質不佳。因
此本計畫設計之新型液晶透鏡可大幅改善此一問題，因為本計畫之新型液晶透鏡
由最基本之電極結構作改良，增加液晶透鏡的孔徑大小，可將液晶透鏡放置於感
測器前，更直接地調變焦距，使得透鏡對入射光的影響達到最低，如此一來更可
減少相機模組的體積，更利於生產製造商利用剩餘之空間體積增加其餘消費功能
替產品加分，使產品更受消費大眾所青睞。 
目前光學變焦尚未完全應用於照相手機上，因為光學變焦的功能尚未流行於
一般消費大眾中，且光學變焦所需之相機模組體積較一般之自動對焦模組大得
多，數位相機動輒三倍、四倍甚至十幾倍的高倍光學變焦所需要的鏡頭拉伸距離
更是超過四、五公分，對於應用在照相手機上目前來說是天方夜譚，試想誰會希
望自己手機的體積比別人的手機大上幾倍，即使擁有光學變焦的功能？的確，光
學變焦功能對於一般照相手機的消費大眾而言並不是缺一不可的功能，畢竟現在
1 
二、 研究目的 
液晶透鏡的發明開始得很早，早在西元 1979 年就有人利用薄薄一層液晶層
達到等同一片傳統玻璃或塑膠透鏡的光學效果，這對傳統透鏡技術帶來極大之衝
擊，傳統的玻璃或是塑膠透鏡有體積上的困擾，且單一片玻璃或塑膠透鏡只有單
一焦距，並無調變焦距之功能，而液晶透鏡可依據驅動方式的不同調變焦距，大
大增加應用性，不僅如此，液晶透鏡可應用於自動對焦功能上。傳統的變焦鏡群
組，顧名思義需要兩片以上傳統透鏡組合，並且搭配音圈馬達或是壓電致動器，
使鏡群組中的透鏡相對距離改變，以調變鏡群組等效的焦距，然而音圈馬達本身
的體積使得傳統自動對焦模組體積大，因此應用新型技術之液晶透鏡在自動對焦
的技術上，可輕鬆解決自動對焦模組體積的問題，因為液晶透鏡的製程簡易，主
要體積完全來自玻璃的厚度，毋須預留透鏡的移動行程即可達成自動對焦的效
果，因此液晶透鏡的技術大大提升光學的應用範疇。 
然而，液晶透鏡發展至此仍有許多需要克服的難題，例如透鏡孔徑過小及成
像品質不良等缺失，故如何將透鏡孔徑增大及改善成像品質便是未來液晶透鏡發
展的重心所在。液晶透鏡主要之聚焦原理就是利用液晶的雙折射率特性及誘電
性，因為液晶分子會受電場方向改變姿態，而改變液晶透鏡的等效折射率。然而
舊型液晶透鏡因為電極結構的關係，使得透鏡中心電場強度微弱，因而等效折射
率的調變不夠理想，且所需的驅動電路對於應用層面產品化的負擔太大，因此利
用本子計畫發展新型液晶透鏡，以期改善驅動電壓過大及等效折射率不理想的問
題，除此之外，並分析透過液晶透鏡所拍攝出之影像，分析如透鏡調變轉移函數、
色散、像差等影像檢測參數，期將液晶透鏡達到最佳化。 
另外將液晶透鏡的技術應用於光學變焦(Zoom)也是另一個重要的課題。照相
時的光學變焦倍率即將景物放大或縮小之倍率，主要是利用至少一組正、負透鏡
即凸透鏡與凹透鏡之相對距離達成，但光學變焦鏡群組所需之移動距離較自動對
焦所需之距離來得更長，若只是應用於一般的相機上，光學變焦所需的伸縮行程
3 
三、 文獻探討 (in English) 
The research results can be divided into three major parts in the second year. Firstly, 
the response time of liquid crystal lenses, LC lenses, is improved then conventional 
one. In addition, the optical axis can be tuned through applying different voltage by 
LC lenses. Finally, the LC lens with multiple-ring electrodes is improved the lens 
power. Three major parts are discussed as following. 
3-1 Response issues 
The LC lens has attracted interests from many researchers, and various lens structures 
have been reported [1-3]. The thickness of the LC layer in an LC lens usually exceeds 
50 µm, which leads to relative weak electrical field intensity over the liquid crystal 
layer. Therefore the response time of LC lens is generally very slow [4]. The response 
time of LC lens is usually more than ten seconds, and there is not yet an effective 
method to decrease it. One possible method to speed up the response of the LC 
directors in LC cell to external electric fields is to apply a high initial voltage. Strong 
fields in the LC layer nevertheless usually results in the occurring of disclination lines. 
Recent study has proposed a technique to drive LC lens without disclination occurring 
by applying an in-plane electric field in the LC layer [5]. Here we use a new 
technique to prevent the occurring of the disclination lines with an in-plane electric 
field, and report a method to decrease the response time of using DFLC [6] lens by 
driving different frequency. The falling time of the LC lens would reduce to less than 
5 second. 
3-2 Tunable optical axis issues 
At the present, there are the focusing off-axis LC lenses with two and four electrodes 
[1][2]. However, they only focus off-axis on the several directions as x, y-axis and the 
straight line x=y. Moreover, it is difficult with driver when the LC lens has more 
5 
LC lens is necessarily thick for a satisfactory index distribution, leading to the 
requirement of high voltage application. Following [4], there were a number of 
reported works [3-12] presenting variations of LC lens designs with varied electrode 
shapes, like circular, cylindrical, and hexagonal-hole-patterned ones. Some others 
adopted the design principle of Fresnel zone plate [14-15], but rendering less focusing 
power from higher-order focused lights. Except for those in zone plates, all the studies 
are devoted for a better index distribution (as close as possible to the GRIN lens) 
and/or decreasing applied voltage level. Some works used high resistance materials to 
form the electrodes [16], while others used two LC layers for a short focusing length 
[15]. Despite advantages and disadvantages in the aforementioned designs, they all 
followed the same design rule ---- to be a GRIN-lens-like device. 
Inheriting the idea of mimicking a GRIN lens, a new type of the LC lens with 
multiple circular electrodes in unequal widths is proposed. The unequal-width 
electrodes are designed to cover the entire aperture for fine-tuning the generated 
electric field. This is aimed to achieve a better refractive index distribution for perfect 
focusing (quadratic-like distribution) than the conventional hole-type LC lens (more 
like a parabolic distribution). Another advantage of the present design is the 
possibility of decreasing driving voltages, since the transparent ring electrodes are 
placed at the inner surface of the glass substrate, much close to the LC layer than past 
works. Also, in order to eliminate the discontinuous alignment angles of LCs, a thin 
insulator film is coated between LC and electrode layers to smooth out the desired 
index distribution. Finally, a new fabrication process is developed to bury the bus 
lines under the ring electrodes, in order to avoid undesired electric field distortion 
near the bus lines. This advantage of avoiding distortions were reported in [16] with 
similar structure but equal electrode widths. Experiments are conducted for 
7 
四、 研究方法 (in English) 
4-1 Response issues 
A new design is proposed to improve the response time of liquid-crystal (LC) lens 
with the ring-and-pie electrode pattern, through a suitable driving scheme and using 
MLC-2048 (duel-frequency LC, DFLC). Compared with conventional liquid-crystal 
lens, this new structure of LC lens is composed with only two ITO glasses and each of 
them is designed the ring-and-pie pattern. Thus, one can control the orientation of 
liquid-crystal director via a three-step switching procedure on the electrode patterns. 
Moreover, it exhibits abilities to eliminate the disclination line -- formed by the 
director dismatch during driving the LC lens, and through different drove frequencies 
reduce the falling time of LC lens to less than 5 second. It shows a potential 
application in places of the optical lens with fixed focus length or the conventional LC 
lens with single circular-hole electrode pattern. 
Conventional hole type LC lens has hollow ITO electrode at the top of upper 
glasses [1]. The proposed design, as shown in Fig. 1, is placed a pie electrode inside 
of a hollow electrode ring which is 2mm in diameter (Dh). The pie electrode can offer 
a uniform distribution electric field in the LC layer through the driving scheme, 
specifically in the rising and the falling state. In the two states, the LC molecule did 
not need focusing on and only need to arrange its distribution to identical direction in 
uniform electric field. The gap between the pie electrode and the hollow electrode 
ring, equal to the ring thickness (Tring), is 15um in distance (dgap). Two 0.55 mm 
glasses (dg) are coated with 450 Å ITO (dITO) and then stacked with 50um Mylar 
spacer (dLC) in between. The DFLC, MLC-2048 from Merck, is filled in the space 
between two glasses. The cross-over frequency, 10 kHz, birefringence Δn, 0.221, and 
dielectric anisotropyΔε = 3.3 at frequency 1 kHz and Δε = -3.0 at 50 kHz at the room 
9 
but also tunable-optical axis focusing. Moreover, the tunable-axis LC lens can focus 
at any points on focus plane. Tunable-axis LC lens is assembled by three electrodes 
that form is a 120° sector.  By adjusting the potential of three sub-electrodes, the LC 
lens not only has a varied focal length but also focus off-axis.  The study has 
analysis the phenomenon of the focusing tunable-axis LC lens module with different 
potential on three electrodes and depends on the LC curvature elasticity theory and 
the electric property. In addition, the focus point can controllable to the variation shift 
distance and the direction. Moreover, the phenomenon of tunable-axis LC lens proofs 
by the beam analyzer. The tunable-axis LC lens can shift three directions which are 
the symmetrical axes of the sub-electrodes and there are four different potential apply 
to each electrodes, respectively. The experiment result shows the focusing-axis of LC 
lens can affect by varied potential on electrodes and it conform to the anticipation. 
A simple (20mm × 20mm) cell structure was also fabricated for proofing the 
validation of the theory. The structure of LC lens comprises the thin LC (E7 of Merck) 
layer which is sandwiched between two glass substrates, upper electrode, and a 
hollow patterned indium tin oxide (ITO) film, and lower electrode, un-patterned ITO 
film. The LCs are orientated under the electric field between the two electrodes, and 
thus the on-axis focal length could be controlled by voltage. Moreover, the upper 
electrode is divided three sub-electrodes that form is a 120° sector as Fig. 1 shown for 
providing the non-uniform electric field density which leads the shifting/bending of 
the optical axis.  
After injecting the LC, the two rims of ITO glasses without spacer package by 
UV adhesive and cure it. Finally, link the wires to the two electrodes by sliver 
adhesive and tinning-copper foil tapes and check respectively conduction of the wires 
with two electrodes.  The picture of LC lens is shown Fig. 2. 
11 
ring electrodes in unequal widths, in order to improve the imperfect refractive index 
the lens [17]. In this way, it acts like a 
conv
distributions offered by a conventional hole-type LC lens and lower the level of 
applied voltage. The number and widths of the multiple ring electrodes are 
pre-designed and optimized to render a desired refraction index distribution leading to 
a near-perfect focusing, while the conventional hole-type LC lens provides less 
perfect focusing. The resulted refractive index distribution is expected to offer similar 
focusing effects by the gradient refraction index (GRIN) lens. The transparent 
electrodes of this new LC lens are placed at inner surfaces of the LC cell to minimize 
the driving voltages, in results less than 10V, for the same level of focusing power and 
an easy practical operation. Special structure and material of the LC lens are designed 
to realize the proposed LC lens. In particular, in order to smooth the generated electric 
field distribution for the near-perfect focusing, a dielectric layer is coated between 
electrodes and the LC layer. 
A gradient index (GRIN) lens owns the refractive index distributed in a particular 
gradient manner along the radial direction of 
entional converging/diverging lens, but does not need to be shaped like one and 
moving and axial motions to realize focusing and/or zooming. Based on this basic 
GRIN lens principle, the LC lens proposed in this study is designed to own the index 
distribution along the radial direction of the LC lens as  
2
( ) ,
2 G
rn r n
d f
= −  (1) ,maxG G
where r and nG,max are the radius of the GRIN lens and the associated maximum 
refractive index, respectively. In addition, the lens thickness is denoted as dG, while f 
is the resulted focal length. The index change along the radial direction of the LC 
GRIN lens also needs to follow Eq. (1). Based on this equation, with appropriate 
13 
depicts this relationship between the designed lens aperture radius and the desired 
minimum EFL, where a monotonic quadratic-curve-like relationship exists. This 
means that for a given LC material a lens with ability to focus a close objective is 
necessarily in a relatively small aperture size. For an exemplary study herein, where a 
moderate lens aperture is considered for design convenience in a lens module in 
commercial cell phones, the lens is designated as large as R=2 mm in radius, while the 
cell gap of the LC lens chosen as dLC=50um. In results, the LC lens could reach a 
focal length f of 182.8mm.  
Aimed for a satisfactory focusing quality, the drive voltages applied to the LC 
lenses in past studies, like [2], are unavoidably high to achieve a smooth and 
parabolic-like refraction index distribution across the LC layer. This is due to that fact 
that the hole-type ITO electrode needs a relatively thick glass layer between the ITO 
electrode and LC layer, as shown in Figure 2(a), to generate a smooth parabolic 
distribution of refraction index, like a perfect GRIN lens with a quadratic index 
distribution. Due to this thick glass layer, the applied voltage has to be high enough to 
result in a strong electric field across the LC layer, particularly in the central region of 
the LC lens. To decrease the drive voltage level for a much easier practical operation 
and also achieving a better focusing quality, a new lens structure as shown in Figure 
2(b) is proposed with multiple ITO ring electrodes coated at the inner surface of the 
top glass. These electrode rings are expected to bear different pre-designed applied 
voltages for generating a close-to-quadratic refraction index distribution over the LC 
layer that mimics a GRIN lens. The two polyimide (PI) layers are used for realizing 
LC alignments. Without a thick glass layer between the upper electrode and LC layer, 
the proposed LC lens needs much less applied voltage levels to achieve the same 
focus length as the hole-type lens.  
15 
electrodes are also responsible for the same index increment. Thus, it is highly 
plausible that the required set of applied electrode voltages to achieve a 
GRIN-lens-like distribution in Figure 2(c) is linearly distributed over a finite range, 
making it much easier to realize an external drive circuit. It is also pertinent to note 
herein that the designed electrode widths between ri’s as shown in Figure 2(c) are 
wider in the central region of the lens than at the edge. This is due to the fact that the 
LC molecules in the central region need much less rotations (low electrical field 
required) to provide required index change from ne.  
With electrode widths determined, the optics of the designed LC lens is 
simulated to extract index distribution for estimating focusing power and quality. The 
simulation is carried out by using the commercial software DIMOS.2D to predict LC 
directors and then calculate index distribution via MATLAB for different drive 
voltages. Figure 3 (a,b,c,d) shows simulated results of the refractive index distribution 
of GRIN lenses as opposed to the aperture radial position with 4, 6, 8 and 10 volts as 
the applied voltage on the outmost electrode ring (also the maximums), respectively. 
Table 1 lists the required simulated voltages applied to other inner electrodes. It is 
seen from these figures that the simulated index distribution follows closely to the 
desired one leading to a perfect GRIN lens, except for the central region where 
unsmoothnesses appear. These unsmoothnesses are caused by the large central 
electrode designed to cope with the relatively flat index gradient in the central region 
between r9 and r10, as shown in Figure 2(c). The unsmoothnesses become more severe 
as the applied outmost voltage increases to achieve larger focusing power. However, 
in practice the index distributions in the central regions are expected smoother than 
those simulated by DIMOS due to the possible cross couplings between different 
columns of liquid crystals.  
17 
electric fields in its local area and then result in unexpected LC rotations, eventually 
seriously undermining the imaging quality of the LC GRIN lens in this area. In 
addition to the afore-mentioned problem, it is also reported from [16] that the space 
between adjacent electrode rings ought to be large enough to avoid possible effects of 
short cuts. To remedy the above-problems, a new structure and associated fabrication 
process are proposed in this study, as illustrated by Figure 4(b) and (d), respectively. 
Figure 4(c) show the photo of the fabricated LC lens. In this lens, the odd- and 
even-numbered electrodes are deposited and patterned at two different layers and 
separated by an insulator SU-8. In this way, as those red dots depicted in Figure 4(b), 
the bus lines are buried below the layer of ring electrodes.  
The details for fabricating different layers of electrodes are illustrated by Figure 
4(d) and stated in the followings. First, from (1) to (2), the ITO layer is patterned for 
the bus lines of all electrodes. These electrode bus lines are in radial extension to the 
outmost region of the glass substrate to be wire bounded. They do not cross each other 
in this layer. From (3) to (7), odd-numbered electrodes are formed with the ITO VIA 
holes connected the foundation and capsulated by insulating SU-8. Step (8) exposes 
the electrode pad for wire bounding. Steps (9) to (11) are for even-numbered ring 
electrodes. Also, Step (12) exposes the electrode pads for even-numbered rings to be 
wire bounded. By this design, the bus lines are buried below the conducting electrode 
rings such that the ring electrodes without crossing bus lines as shown in Figure 4(b) 
can be realized. The distortions of electric fields in the local area around the bus lines 
as shown in Figure 4(a) are avoided. Another advantage is that the neighboring 
electrodes need no spacing and the upper even-numbered electrodes could even be a 
little wider than originally designed in order to avoid over-etching in the process and 
also control the resistance to a lower value for a fast response. Figure 3(c) shows a 
19 
by previous simulations conducted by DIMOS and MATLAB. As seen in this figure, 
the closeness of the predicted indices to the measured data validates the effectiveness 
of the previous simulations and the satisfactory focusing quality offered by the 
fabricated LC lens. Furthermore, fitting the measured index distribution in Figure 6(a) 
into a quadratic curve in Eq. (1), the focus length can be estimated. The estimated 
focal lengths are shown in Figure 6(b), as opposed to varied levels of the maximum 
(for the outmost ring electrode) applied ring voltage in 1kHz. Other than using the 
method of curve-fitting, in fact, based on the ring number of the interference pattern, 
N, one could also obtain the focal length by [20] 
2
,
2
rf
Nλ=  (5) 
where r is the radius of the hole electrode and λ denotes the wavelength of the 
incident laser. It is seen from this subfigure that the achievable focus length is 
 is placed right after the analyzer (a 
CMO
continuously shortened to 182.8 mm until the maximum applied voltage in 1kHz  
reaches the level around 10 volts, a relatively low driving voltage as compared to 
conventional hole-type LC lenses [2].  
To observe the power distribution after the laser beam passes through the 
proposed lens, a beam analyzer, Ophir FX-50,
S sensor) instead of CCD camera. Setting the observing plane of the beam 
analyzer at its focal length, the power intensity distribution could then be analyzed. 
The intensity distributions of the fabricated LC GRIN lens, as shown in Figure 4(c), 
with the outmost (maximum) ring voltages of 9V and 7V at 1 kHz are measured and 
presented in Figure 7 in the forms of point spread functions (PSFs). It is clearly seen 
from this figure that the distribution with a lower voltage, 7V, exerts lower peak 
intensity and wider sidebands, as opposed to 9V. This indicates that a higher driving 
21 
五、 結果與討論 (in English) 
5-1 Response issues 
A novel design of LC lens is proposed. Compared with the previous study, the 
proposed new electrode for the LC lens not only eliminates the disclination line but 
also improves the response time. It is clear to see from the experimental results that 
the falling time of the LC lens proposed here is reduced to less than 5 sec as shown 
the Fig. 4 (b). 
5-2 Tunable optical axis issues 
This study dedicates to investigate the phenomenon of moving optical-axis of liquid 
crystal lens by tuning the applied voltages of a proposed three equal-divided 
electrodes. The orientation of liquid crystal is controlled by the applied voltage, the 
potential, of the cell. Therefore, the separated electrodes are operated in different 
voltage levels which will lead to different distributions of LC orientation. 
5-3 Improving the lens power issues 
This work is dedicated to design a novel liquid crystal (LC) lens device with multiple 
ring electrodes in unequal widths, in order to improve the imperfect refractive index 
distributions offered by a conventional hole-type LC lens and lower the level of 
applied voltage. The number and widths of the multiple ring electrodes are 
pre-designed and optimized to render a desired refraction index distribution leading to 
a near-perfect focusing, while the conventional hole-type LC lens provides less 
perfect focusing. The resulted refractive index distribution is expected to offer similar 
focusing effects by the gradient refraction index (GRIN) lens. The transparent 
electrodes of this new LC lens are placed at inner surfaces of the LC cell to minimize 
the driving voltages, in results less than 10V, for the same level of focusing power and 
an easy practical operation. Special structure and material of the LC lens are designed 
23 
六、 參考文獻 (in English) 
6-1 Response issues 
[1] M. Ye, and S. Sato, “Optical Properties of Liquid Crystal Lens of Any Size,” Jpn. 
J. Appl. Phys., vol. 41, pp. 571-573, May 2002. 
[2] M. Ye, B. Wang, and S. Sato, “Development of High Quality Liquid Crystal 
Lens” SPIE, vol.  6487, pp. 64870N-64870N-12, 2007. 
[3] C.-W. Chiu, Y.-C. Lin, P. C.-P. Chao, and A. Y.-G. Fuh, “Achieving High 
Focusing Power for a Large-aperture Liquid Crystal Lens with Novel 
hole-and-ring Electrodes,” Opt. Express, vol. 16,  pp. 19277-19284, November 
2008. 
[4] M. Ye, and S. Sato, “New Method of Voltage Application for Improving 
Response Time of a Liquid Crystal Lens,” Mol. Cryst. Liq. Cryst., vol.  433, pp. 
229-236, 2005. 
[5] M. Ye, B. Wang, and S. Sato, “Driving of Liquid Crystal Lens without 
Disclination Occurring by Applying In-Plane Electric Field,” Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., 
vol. 42, pp. 5086-5089, 2003. 
[6] S. Jobling, Y. Williams, J. Liou, and I. C. Khoo, “Low Volatge Behavior and 
Electro-optical Switching Properties of Dual-frequency Nematic Liquid 
Crystals,” NSF EE REU PENN STATE Ann. Research Jour., vol. III, 2005 
6-2 Tunable optical axis issues 
[1] M. Ye, B. Wang, and S. Sato, “Liquid Crystal Lens with Focus Movable in Focal 
Plane” Optics Communications, Vol. 259, 710-722, 2006. 
[2] H. Ren, D. W. Fox, B. Wu, and S.-T. Wu, “Liquid Crystal Lens with Large Focal 
Length Tunability and Low Operating Voltage”, Optics Express, Vol. 15, No.18, 
11328-11335, 2007. 
25 
[8] B. Wang, M. Ye, S. Sato, “Liquid crystal lens with stacked structure of 
liquid-crystal layers,” Opt. Comm. 250 266-273 (2005). 
[9] M. Ye and S. Sato, “Optical properties of liquid crystal lens of any size,” Jpn. J. 
Appl. Phys. 41, 571-573 (2002). 
[10] M. Ye, B. Wang and S. Sato, “Liquid-crystal lens with a focal length that is 
variable a wide range,” Appl. Opt. 43 6407-6412 (2004). 
[11] C. W. Chiu, Y. C. Lin, P. C. P. Chao, and Y. G. Fuh, “Achieving high focusing 
power for a large-aperture liquid crystal lens with novel hole-and-ring 
electrodes” Opt. Express 16, 19277-19284 (2008). 
[12] Y. H. Lin, H. Ren, K. H. Fan-Chiang, W. K. Choi, S. Gauza, X. Zhu and S. T. 
Wu, “Tunable-Focus Cylindrical Liquid Crystal Lenses” Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 44, 
243-244 (2005). 
[13] Bin Wang, M. Ye, M. Yamaguchi, and S. Sato, “thin liquid crystal with low 
driving voltages,” Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 48, 098004 (2009). 
[14] H. Ren, Y. H. Fan, and S. T. Wu, “Tunable Fresnel lens using nanoscale 
polymer-dispersed liquid crystals,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 83, 1515-1517 (2003). 
[15] P. Valley, D. L. Mathine, M. R. Dodge, J. Schwiegerling, G. Peyman and N. 
Peyghambarian, “Tunable-focus flat liquid-crystal diffraction lens,” Opt. Lett. 35, 
336-338.  
[16] G. Li, P. Valley, P. Äyräs, D. L. Mathine, S. Honkanen, and N. Peyghambarian, 
“High-efficiency switchable flat diffractive ophthalmic lens with three-layer 
electrode pattern and two-layer via structures,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 90 
111105 (2007). 
[17] E. Hecht, Optics, Addision-Wesley, (2002). 
27 
七、 表 (in English) 
Table 1. Applied individual electrode voltages. 
 
 Applied Voltages (volts)  
Electrode 
No.  
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
EFL 
(mm) 
 2 2.35 2.7 2.9 3.35 3.6 3.9 4 632.11 
2.1 2.5 2.9 3.2 3.8 4.2 4.7 5 451.51 
2.9 3.45 3.95 4.35 4.95 5.5 5.9 6 351.17 
2.9 3.5 4.05 4.45 5.1 5.8 6.55 7 263.38 
2.9 3.5 4.15 4.5 5.3 6 6.7 8 225.75 
2.95 3.55 4.2 4.6 5.5 6.25 7.25 9 210.70 
2.95 3.55 4.2 4.8 5.7 6.5 7.8 10 182.8 
 
 
29 
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
1kHz switched to 80kHz
1kHz switched to 100kHz
1kHz switched to 40kHz
1kHz switched to 30kHz
1kHz switched to 50kHz
1kHz switched to 60kHz
1kHz switched to 20kHz
Ti
m
e 
(s
)
Frequency (kHz)
 50V
1kHz switched to power off
 
(a) 
6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24
-0.2
-0.1
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Switched power off
~12s
Vo
lta
ge
 (m
V)
Second (s)
~5s
Switched 50kHz
 
(b) 
Fig. 4. (a)The falling time of the ring-and-hole type LC lens at different driving 
frequency; (b) Illustrated falling time of driving 50kHz frequency and natural 
reinstatement. 
31 
33 
 
Fig. 4Focus in the Focal Plane 
(a) (b)
(c) (d)
 
Fig. 3. The simulated refractive index distributions of the proposed LC lens with 
multiple electrodes in unequal widths and the maximum (for the outmost ring) driving 
voltages as (a) 4V, (b) 6V, (c) 8V, and (d) 10V. 
35 
 (a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 5. (a) Experiment apparatus; (b) Interference patterns with the LC aperture in 
2mm and the maximum applied driving voltages (to the outmost ring electrode) from 
4V to 10V. 
37 
-2.0 -1.5 -1.0 -0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
In
te
ns
ity
 (m
W
/c
m
2 )
Radial Position, r (mm)
 7V
 9V
 
Fig. 7. Power intensity on the focal plane. 
 
(a) 
               
(b)                              (c) 
Fig. 8. (a) The equipments of the image observation with a CMOS 
sensor; Images of the near object shot by a CMOS sensor with this 
proposed LC lens (b) not activated and (c) activated. 
39 
41 
為基礎，製作並建立負型透鏡之實體與量測系統。 
(vi) 論文發表 
截至第二年期中報告，本子計畫四--創新液晶變焦透鏡應用於手機相機模組
化鏡頭之實現已投稿四篇學術論文，其中已被接受三篇研討會論文，一篇期
刊論文審核中。 
以下為該三篇學術研討會論文： 
[1] Y. Y. Kao, C. W. Chiu, and Paul C. P. Chao, “A DFLC Lens with 
Ring-and-Pie Electrodes and a New Driving Scheme to Minimize Response 
Time,” APCOT Proceeding (2010). (Accepted) 
[2] T. Y. Tu, C. W. Chiu, and Paul P. C. Chao, “Optical Design and Fabrication 
of the Tunable-axis Liquid Crystal Lens,” APCOT Proceeding 
(2010). (Accepted) 
[3] Yung-Yuan Kao, Chao-Jui Hsu, and Paul C.-P. Chao, “Design of a 
Multi-Ring Liquid Crystal Lens and its Quantitative Focusing Quality 
Assessment Method,” ASME ISPS (2010). (Accepted) 
以下為審核中之期刊論文： 
[1] Yung-Yuan Kao, Chieh-Wen Hsueh and Paul C.-P. Chao, “A New 
Low-Voltage-Driven GRIN Liquid Crystal Lens with Multiple Ring 
Electrodes in Unequal Widths,” Optics Express. 
9-3 第二年計畫成果自評之子計畫(四) 
子計畫(四)執行的第二年期間除預定完成之項目外，更完成了額外之多項成果，
其中包含了利用(1)多圈不等寬度電極之設計，達成低電壓及高效能之液晶透
鏡；(2)新型可調光軸之液晶透鏡，可應用於相機閃光燈之光源補償，詳細之內
容皆於上述之報告內容有所說明。此外，研究之成果也已投稿了三篇研討會論
文，一篇期刊論文；其中三篇研討會論文皆已被接受，並將於六月及七月前往研
討會報告，期刊論文則仍在審核中。在接下來的第三年，將把這些成果應用於手
機相機模組上，製作出可用之產品。 
