 2
different fluid flow. In general, the transport 
mechanisms operate more or less together 
according to the particle size, shape and fluid 
properties. There is renewed interest in the 
prevention of the fouling of heat transfer 
surfaces. More specifically, the particulate 
fouling of heat exchange surfaces has to be 
prevented because it does not only reduce the 
heat transfer but can carburize the pipe material 
by diffusion of carbon atoms into the wall. The 
life of heat exchanger pipes may therefore be 
governed by the brittleness due to carburization 
of the pipe surfaces. The particulate fouling of 
heat exchanger surfaces in general presents a 
continuing problem for plant engineers. The 
erosion of the leading edge of turbine blades in 
low pressure stages is generally attributed to 
fog droplets in the range m0.101.0 µ−  
diameter which are first deposited on the blade 
and then forced to the trailing edge of the blade 
by the action of further fog impacts, steam drag, 
and by the existing pressure gradient. The 
liquid is then stripped at the trailing edge, and 
the relatively large droplets impinge on the next 
row of blades. The erosion damage caused by 
the droplets can be so severe that the turbine 
efficiency and reliability are impaired, and may 
result in the necessity of replacing the blades 
after only a short operating time, therefore 
increasing the capital and operating costs. 
Hardening of blade leading edges and heating 
one or two rows of the fixed blades in the last 
stages of the turbine have provided partial 
solutions to the problem.  
Byers and Calvert [1] were the first to 
measure the change in the cumulative mass 
concentration of hot gases between inlet and 
outlet of the pipes for varying Knudsen 
numbers associated with the particle sizes in 
the range of 0.3 to 1.3 mµ . They found that the 
particle deposition on the tube surface 
increased with increasing gas temperature. The 
trends between theoretical predictions and 
experimental results, shown in their reported 
diagrams, are rather different. The smaller 
particles deposit near to the inlet of the test 
section and the larger ones travel farther 
downstream before depositing, and no 
deposition took place for particles larger than 
0.75 mµ . Nishio et al. [2] measured particle 
deposition by counting the number of particles 
collected on the filter with an electron 
microscope and tabulated the fractional 
deposition of aerosol particles for 
103000407Re −=  and for average particle 
diameters of 0.097 mµ  and 0.155 mµ . The 
deposition of aerosol on the wall of the pipe 
was a function of the temperature gradient 
along the length of the pipe. They confirmed 
that the thermophoretic deposition of particles 
in the Knudsen number transition regime 
strongly depends upon the Knudsen number, 
and indicated that the thermophoretic 
deposition was larger than the calculated value 
predicted from Brock's formula. Ryley and 
Davies [3] measured the effect of 
thermophoresis on low pressure steam turbine 
guide blades. They found that the deposition of 
uranium particles (0.05-0.25 mµ  in diameter) 
on the heated blade was reduced by 30%-90% 
of the corresponding value for the unheated 
blade. Wells and Chamberlain [4] who 
measured the deposition rate of 
tri-cresyl-phosphate particles (0.65-5 mµ ) in an 
annular vertical air flow by counting particles 
deposited on the inner brass rod at the end of an 
experiment. Liu and Illori [5] proposed a model 
for calculating the effective particle diffusivity 
in the boundary layer of turbulent flow. It is 
based on the analogy between the molecular 
diffusion and turbulent diffusion. Liu and 
Agarwal [6] experimentally investigated the 
nondimensional deposition velocity of olive oil 
particles (1.4-21 mµ ) on glass and copper pipe 
surfaces. El-Shobokshy et al. [7] measured 
aerosol particle deposition (1.0-6.2 mµ  in 
diameter) from turbulent flow ( 4101Re ×= ) 
onto smooth and rough surfaces. Rosner and 
Atkins [8] demonstrated the applicability of 
several laser optical techniques for measuring 
dilute vapour (3-4 mµ  42SONa  solution and 
2.5 mµ  2OTi ) deposition due to diffusion, 
thermophoresis, and condensation. They 
detected that the thermophoretic forces increase 
the deposition velocity from a high temperature 
fluid, including sub-micron particles, and 
indicated that the thermophoretic force is 
important for particles as large as 10 mµ  and 
 4
through a Millipore filter unit. A flowmeter is 
fixed between the probe and the suction pump 
to give the volume flow rate and a manometer 
is connected between the flowmeter and the 
suction pump to give the pressure during the 
sampling process. A sampling time needs to be 
found for the sufficient solution. The sampled 
particles will be subsequently dissolved by 
immersing the filters in lm5  of de-ionized 
water and the solution analyzed in a fluorimeter 
to obtain the mass concentration in accordance 
with a known strength of standard solution. 
Time for sensitive measurements of mass 
deposition on the surface must be found. At the 
end of the experiment, the deposition plate is 
removed and placed in test tubes, and then a 
known amount of de-ionized water is added to 
the test tubes for dissolving the deposited 
particles. The solutions are analyzed using a 
fluorimeter, and then compared with the 
standard solutions to assess the mass of 
fluorescent material in the solution.  
In general, the deposition measurements are 
reported as deposition velocities. The 
deposition velocity is defined as the ratio of the 
wall mass flux, J, to the pipe centerline 
concentration, co . 
o
d c
JV = , 
and the wall mass flux can be calculated by 
dd
d
tA
mJ = , 
where dm  is the total mass deposited on the 
wall surface by fluorescence spectroscopy in 
units of grams, dA  is the area of deposition in 
2m , and dt  is the total time of a run in 
seconds. The pipe centerline concentration is 
calculated by 
c
c
o tQ
mc = , 
where cm  is the total mass collected on the 
filter and measured by fluorescence 
spectroscopy, Q  is the volumetric air flow 
rate through the filter in units of sm
3 , and ct  
is the time for each sampling in seconds.  
 
4.Result and discussion  
The agreement between the experiment 
and these is reasonable, some difference would 
be expected since the surface roughness was at 
least comparable in magnitude to the thickness 
of the particle concentration boundary layer, 
and this effect reduces as the flow rate 
decreases. For particles in the submicron range 
+τ  is small, and the particles follow the 
streamlines of the fluid motion. For the same 
particle diameter the deposition velocity 
increases with increased main stream velocity 
which causes an increase in the friction velocity. 
The deposition velocity of sub-micron particles 
onto an isothermal rod shows that the smaller 
particle has a higher deposition velocity than 
the larger particle (Fig.2). This is because of 
Brownian diffusion which increases as the 
particle size decreases. 
Figure 3 shows the comparison of 
nondimensional deposition velocities. Lines are 
drawn for Davies's theory [11], taking 
4108.1Re ×= , Beal's theory [12], and the 
correlation of Friedlander and Johnstone's 
theory by [13]. The experimental results of [14], 
[15], [16] and [17] are also plotted. Figure 4 
shows the distribution of 
od
thd
)V(
)V(  relative to the 
thermophoretic parameter and particle diameter. 
On the cold surface, the deposition velocity 
increases with decreasing wall temperature, and 
the tendency is similar for the particle sizes 
considered, in which approximate simulations 
indicate clearly that the magnitude of the effect 
of thermophoresis on sub-micron particles 
)m0.1d( p µ≤  can be greater than 30% and that 
the diffusional depositions are not important 
when the particles are larger than m1.0 µ  
because the molecular diffusion decreases as 
the particle diameter increases, and the 
thermophoresis is a main mechanism to drift 
the particles onto the surface. As the results of 
this calculation on a hot surface, the prediction 
of the particle deposition velocity is higher than 
the results of the reported one-dimensional 
models and the similarity solution. A solution 
could not be obtained when 42.0
w
w
T
TT ≥∞−  
which gives 1d ≥=ε δδ , which means that the 
boundary-layer thickness of concentration 
becomes larger than the boundary-layer 
