中文摘要: 
材料表面的改質可以很容易的經由控制脂質或是植物油分子在材料的表面吸附達成。因
此調控那些分子的吸附行為成為一個很重要的表面改質之奈米技術。植物油分子的吸附行為
受到其本身的分子結構，特別是功能性鏈腳的特性所影響；除此之外所吸附的表面之形貌及
特徵結構也有很大的影響。實驗上來說現有的技術很難做到奈米級的表面形貌或是特徵結構
的操控，因此探究這些分子在表面的吸附行為有一定之難度。本研究利用分子動力學模擬的
方法來探究這些分子或是其形成的奈米液滴在鑽石表面的吸附行為，此方法可以突破傳統實
驗的限制，進而對分子在表面的吸附行為有一定的了解。 
本研究分成兩部分，第一部分為比較不同鏈腳長度以及不同雙鍵數的鏈腳之植物油分子
對於其表面吸附行為之影響，此外也比較不同的表面吸附量下，該分子的吸附行為有甚麼不
同。模擬的結果顯示出鏈腳上有越多的雙鍵則該植物油分子較不容易均勻的散布在鑽石表面
上，且容易有團聚的現象，進而降低了表面潤滑的效果。另外模擬也發現分子在表面的吸附
量會影響其在表面的堆疊結構，吸附量高的情況下，分子在表面可以站立並形成層狀結構，
吸附量低的時候，分子平躺在表面，並且會與基板的表面原子結構做對位，該結果顯示吸附
量低的時候雖然在表面形成一層薄膜，但是分子的運動因為表面原子有對位反而受到限制，
結果反而降低了表面的潤滑能力。 
第二部分研究奈米液滴的表面吸附行為，模擬中比較了不同鏈腳長度的植物油分子之奈
米液滴在鑽石表面的吸附現象。結果顯示奈米液滴是由很多小的膠質粒子組成，每個膠質粒
子是由分子中帶電的部分互相吸引團聚造成。當奈米液滴吸附在表面時，這些膠質粒子會由
於分子的鏈腳與表面的原子互相吸引而瓦解，因此奈米液滴會慢慢的融化在吸附的表面上。
奈米液滴與表面的接觸角度亦會因此而改變。模擬的結果顯示出鏈腳越長的分子所形成的液
滴，融化的速率越快，因此助長表面的潤濕。 
 
關鍵字:植物油分子、分子動力學模擬、奈米磨擦學、奈米力學 
Abstract: 
Molecules such as lipis or triacylglycerols provide a simple way in precisely modifying the 
surface properties of materials through direct surface adsorption. Controlling the adsorption behavior 
exactly thus becomes a very important technique in nano-scale surface modification. It is well known 
that the adsorption behavior mainly depends on the properties of triacylglycerols (TAGs) which are 
mostly determined by its functional group, and on the morphology of the surface. Experimentally, 
however, it is difficult to manipulate the surface morphology exactly in nano-scale, therefore 
hindering the studies of surface adsorption of nano-droplet. In this study Molecular Dynamics (MD) 
simulations were used to investigate the adsorption behavior of Triacylglycerol molecules or nano-
droplets on perfect diamond surfaces.   
In the first study, trilaurin triacylglycerol (LLL-TAG), SSS-TAG(stearic acid), OOO-TAG 
(oleic acid) and LeLeLe-TAG (linolenic acid) were selected to inverstigate how the TAG molecules 
adsorbed on the diamond surface. Simulations show that the structure of aliphatic chain influences 
the rate of surface coverage. Specifically, TAG molecules are hard to spread uniformly if there are 
higher numbers of unsaturated bonds on the aliphatic tail. It is also found that the packing behavior 
of TAG molecules on the diamond surface is greatly influenced by the amount of adsorption.   
In the other study, the selected TAGs are Tributyrin (four carbon atoms in the functional group), 
Trioctanoin (eight carbon atoms in the functional group) and Tripalmitin (sixteen carbon atoms in the 
functional group). Simulations show that TAG nano-droplet consists of many micelles. Each micelle 
is composed of several TAG molecules, which is formed by clustering of charged acyl group. 
Therefore, the micelle has a core-shell-like structure with charged acyl group in the core and recoiled 
aliphatic group in the outer shell.  The adsorption of nano-droplet attribute to crumbling of the 
charged core part. The simulations indicate that longer functional group facilitates surface wetting.  
 
Keywords: plant oil molecule, molecular dynamics simulation, nano-tribology, nano-mechanics 
surfaces. Therefore, the tribological mechanisms in nano-scale are very complicated. Traditional 
characterization method measure only the force-displacement curve could not tell the detailed 
mechanisms that are responsible to the friction phenomenon. 
Computer simulation is a complementary method to study the tribological mechanisms in nano-
scale. Molecular dynamics simulations which integrate Newton’s equations of motion and calculate 
the position, velocity and acceleration of every atom in the system through simulated time frame thus 
become a powerful tool to help understanding friction mechanisms in nano-scale. The motion of 
every molecule during the sliding can be predicted. The bond breaking or bond reformation within 
the molecule can also be predicted if the intra-molecule potentials are chosen properly. Therefore, the 
detailed mechanisms that cause the complex friction phenomenon mentioned above can be revealed. 
研究方法: 
Molecular dynamics simulations will be used in this project. The simulations can predict the 
motion of individual atoms in the models within the simulation time frame. The results will show the 
detailed movement of every molecule adsorbing on the diamond surface. Therefore the detailed 
adsorption behavior can be discovered. 
The procedure of the MD simulation starts from system initialization in which initial coordinates 
of every atom, first n derivatives, time step, total number of steps, system temperature and periodic 
boundary conditions are read by computers. Then the code use Taylors’ expansion of Newton’s 
equations of motion to calculate the coordinates and first n derivatives of every atom in the next time 
step. The atom’s position thus moves to the next time step. However, since there are interaction 
forces between atoms, additional corrections are needed. The accuracy of the molecular dynamics 
simulation depends totally on this correction procedure. In this study NERD type force field is used 
to describe the potential of TAG molecules. The diamond substrate is simulated by Deriding force 
field. The interaction between TAG molecules and diamond substrate is ascribed by 12-6 Lennard 
Jones potential. 
The simulation is divided into two categories. In the first study the selected TAGs are trilaurin 
triacylglycerol (LLL-TAG), SSS-TAG(stearic acid), OOO-TAG (oleic acid) and LeLeLe-TAG 
(linolenic acid). These four TAGs are different in either length of aliphatic tails (ex. LLL vs. SSS) or 
number of unsaturated bonds (ex. SSS vs. LLL vs. LeLeLe) as shown in Figure 1. The equilibrium 
molecular packing structure in different temperature is first simulated. The goal is to figure out the 
mechanisms that are responsible for thermo-stability. Then the adsorption behaviors of the four 
TAGs were simulated to study the aliphatic tail effect and adsorption amount effect. 
In the other study the selected TAGs are 
Tributyrin triacylglycerol (b-TAG) and 
Trioctanoin triacylglycerol (o-TAG) which 
have much shorter aliphatic chain than the 
first four TAGs. Since these two TAGs are 
smaller, the portion of the polar group 
becomes larger. They are easily to form 
droplet structure. Therefore, the study focuses 
on the adsorption of nano-droplet on the 
diamond surface. The goal is to reveal the 
effect of aliphatic chain length.  
結果與討論: 
In the first study, the effect of aliphatic 
chain structure is demonstrated by adsorption 
of the same numbers of TAG molecules on 
the diamond substrate. The results are shown in Figure 2. Figure 2(a)-(d) shows that different 
structure of aliphatic chain influence the rate of surface coverage. The aliphatic tails with unsaturated 
bonds such as OOO-TAG and LeLeLe-TAG tend to aggregate on the diamond surface, however no 
aggregation is found in the case of LLL-TAG and SSS-TAG which has all saturated bonds in the 
aliphatic tails. This is because that the unsaturated bond is stiffer than saturated bond. During 
Figure 1. The four selected TAGs in the first 
simulation model. 
Figure 5, respectively, in which red balls are represented oxygen atoms and also known as charged 
atoms.  
 
 
 
 
 
Simulations show that TAG nano-droplet consists of many micelles. Each micelle is composed of 
several TAG molecules, which is formed by clustering of charged acyl group. Therefore, the micelle 
has a core-shell-like structure with charged acyl group in the core and recoiled aliphatic group in the 
outer shell.  The adsorption of the nano-droplet attribute to crumbling of the charged core part due to 
the interaction between aliphatic tail and diamond surface. Hence the longer the tail the stronger the 
interaction is, the easiler that nano-droplet is able to form liquid thin film on the diamond surface. 
The simulations,thus, indicate that longer functional group facilitates surface wetting. 
 
計畫成果自評: 
The study discovers fundamental behaviors of TAG molecules on the diamond surface. It provides 
insights in the adsorption of molecules on the surface. The results could have impact on the 
application of surface modification and new lubricant development. We are writing two papers 
regarding this study. The papers will be submitted to the SCI journals. Following works, such as 
adsorption of TAG molecules on different surface topology or confinement of the TAG molecules 
into two slabs are going on. 
The results we got so far quit match with the original proposal. The graduate students involved in 
the project also learned FORTRAN programming, method of molecular dynamics simulation, 
knowledge of building molecule force field as well as the cutting edge technique to do research by 
computer simulation. With all these skills, they should be able to have great contributions on the 
materials science and engineering society. 
 
 
  
t=0 ns t=1.5 ns t=3 ns 
Figure. 4  Equilibration of tributyrin nano-droplet on diamond substrate surface at 40 oC  
t=0 ns t=1.5 ns t=3 ns 
Figure. 5  Equilibration of trioctanoin nano-droplet on diamond substrate surface at 40 oC  
