 中文摘要及關鍵詞： 
 
在高效率氮化銦鎵發光元件研究上，本年度研究光輔助電化學氧化技術將發光二極體
側壁結構形成倒角結構，並利用 N面氮化鎵之高化學活性進行晶體面蝕刻，在煮沸 KOH
溶液將倒角結構蝕刻形成穩定斜倒角結構，此過程可將前製程所產生之氧化家薄膜移
除 ，在 P 型氮化鎵側壁形成{ 1110 }穩定斜面，底部 N 型氮化鎵形成{ 0110 }垂直面，
此斜面結構恰好與氮化銦鎵發光層重疊，有效提升發光圓錐與取光圓錐重疊機率，比
較具斜面倒角發光二極體與標準製程發光二極體其發光效率有 2.1 提升，其斜面倒角
結構之形成機制與光取出效率分析，在本年度計畫中有詳細探討。 
 
關鍵詞：發光二極體，斜倒角結構，光輔助電化學蝕刻技術 
 
 
 
(三)報告內容：請包括前言、研究目的、文獻探討、研究方法、結果與討論（含結
論與建議）⋯等。若該計畫已有論文發表者，可以 A4 紙影印，作為
成果報告內容或附錄，並請註明發表刊物名稱、卷期及出版日期。若
有與執行本計畫相關之著作、專利、技術報告、或學生畢業論文等，
請在參考文獻內註明之，俾可供進一步查考。 
 
前言 
Gallium Nitride (GaN) has attracted considerable interest for application in light-emitting diodes 
(LEDs), and laser diodes. GaN has a lower refractive index (n~2.5), the critical angle of the 
escape cone is about 23o, and indicated about 4% of the total light extraction from the surface. 
The overall external quantum efficiency of InGaN-based LED is depending on the internal 
quantum efficiency (ηint) and the light extraction efficiency (ηout).  
研究目的 
The inclined undercut LED structure is fabricated through the PEC wet oxidation process in 
deionized water (DI) and the following crystallographic wet etching process in hot KOH solution. 
This inclined undercut LED structure has larger divergent angle and higher light extraction 
efficiency. The forming mechanism of the PEC selective oxidation process on n-type GaN layer 
and wet etching stable plane on p-type GaN were discussed detail in this paper. 
     
文獻探討 
To increase the light extraction ratio, the bottom pattern Al2O3 substrate, the top p-type GaN:Mg 
surface rough process, the n-type GaN:Si surface rough process by using the laser-lift-off 
technique, and selective oxidized on mesa sidewall through photoelectrochemical (PEC) wet 
oxidass were used to increase light extraction efficiency. In AlInGaP-based LEDs truncated 
inverted pyramid (TIP) and GaN-based LEDs ATON technique on SiC substrate shaping 
substrate process can enhance the light extraction efficiency. The PEC process attempted on the 
selective etching process, the oxidizing process, and the selective oxidation on nitride-based 
semiconductor[11] can affect the optical property of GaN-based materials. 
研究方法 
The LED structures consisted of a 1 µm-thick unintentionally doped GaN layer, a 3 
µm-thick n-type GaN layer, the 5-pair InGaN/GaN multiple-quantum wall (MQW) active layers, 
topped by a 0.4 µm thick p-type GaN:Mg layer shown in Fig. 1. The n-type GaN and p-GaN 
mesa regions were defined by an inductively coupled plasma (ICP) etcher using the Cl2 gas. An 
800W Hg lamp was used as the illumination source in this photoelectrochemical (PEC) oxidation 
process. The 10 µm-width mesa region at the mesa edge (p-type GaN:Mg), the mesa sidewall, 
and the ICP etching n-type GaN:Si layer were exposed under the illuminated Hg lamp. Unstirred 
DI water was used as the solution during this PEC process. Large sized Ti/Al metal pads were 
deposited on the ICP etched n-type GaN:Si layer located at the wafer’s edge for the external 
anode electrode. Under this positive 20V DC bias applied on the GaN:Si layer (the GaN:Si layer 
The crystallographic wet etching on oxidized LEDs consisted with the inclined undercut 
structure can enhance the light extraction efficiency and increase the light divergent angle in 
far-field pattern. The crystallographic etched plane of { 1110 } GaN:Mg planes and { 0110 } n-GaN 
planes have an 27° included angle. The highest light enhanced ratios of OU-LED and IU-LED are 
2.73 (94o) and 3.45 (79o) caused by the PEC treated undercut and inclined undercut structures at 
mesa sidewall. This PEC oxidation process and crystallographic wet etching process on 
GaN-based LEDs can provide special fabricated technology to increase the light extraction 
efficiency.
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                            95 年 6 月 13 日 
報告人姓名  
林佳鋒 
 
服務機構 
及職稱 
 
國立中興大學 材料工程學系
(所) 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
自民國 95年 5 月 16 日 至
民國 95年 5 月 19 日 
日本  京都 
本會核定
補助文號
NSC 94-2215-E-005-011 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 第四屆先進材料雷射製程國際研討會 
 (英文) The 4th International Congress on Laser Advanced Materials  
Processing 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文)利用光輔助電化學技術製作奈米多孔隙氮化鎵結構 
 (英文) Forming nanoporous GaN structure through photoelectrochemical 
 process 
???
 
 
 
 
 
 

