1. Background
People spend more than 90% of their time in an artificial environment (such as a dwelling, a workplace, or a
transport vehicle), which has a significant effect on people’s health (Awbi, 1995). With the aspect of pollution
control, sufficient airflow rates are required and methods may include mechanical systems, intentional openings, or
air leakage through cracks in the building envelope (Sawachi et al, 2004). Although the air-conditioning is capable
of keeping building temperature and moisture environment more stable and comfortable, a complaint about the
indoor air quality, such as high concentrations of internally generated pollutants, low outdoor air supply rates and
some illnesses like SBS (Sick Building Syndrome), has been experienced particularly among air-conditioned
buildings (Heiselberg, 2004). According to other studies relating to the comparison between the naturally ventilated
and air-conditioned building, evidence show that the natural ventilation building generally gives a better performance
in the occupants’responses. Furthermore, the use of natural ventilation system could reduce the demands of
heating/cooling supply so that it saves energy consumptions of a building.
The purpose of a building ventilation system is to provide acceptable microclimate in the space being ventilated
(Awbi, 1995). It refers to the provision of sufficient quantities of outside air flowing into the building for the
occupants to breathe and to dilute the concentration of pollution generated by people, equipment and materials inside
the buildings. Air flow occurs only when there is a difference between pressures across the opening. Air will flow
from a region of high pressure to the side of low pressure area. To accurately predict the flow rates required to
achieve the aim maintaining the sufficient indoor air quality, mathematical models of ventilation (envelope flow
models) are commonly used to calculate air flow rates through openings of buildings. The values of Cp
(nondimensional pressure coefficient) are often determined from wind tunnel measurements on a model of the
building, but without openings. Basically the pressure is measured at the centre point of the proposed position of
the opening. This procedure is believed to be satisfactory when the openings are small. However, for large opening,
such as opening windows, the procedure may lead to errors in the calculation of air flow rate.
The main work of this study is to investigate the effect of opening size on the use of pressure coefficients for
calculating air flow rate. Two approaches are available for the study. Traditionally, wind tunnel is utilized to
research various kinds of wind effects on buildings by means of model-scale tests. It has been an effective tool to
obtain realistic information about building ventilation, although measurements are expensive and time consuming.
Apart from that, there are some limitations on the wind tunnel study, for instance, the tunnel must be large enough to
accommodate models and to allow observation of the flow, the air flow through the tunnel must be representative of
the real world and any relevant scale effects due to the density and viscosity of the air must be overcome (Chiu,
2004).
The other approach is computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulation. The CFD study is now becoming more
popular and acceptable due to its informative results, low labour costs, and less time consumption. Computational
Fluid Dynamics is the analysis of systems involving fluid flow, heat transfer and associated phenomena such as
chemical reactions by means of computer based simulation (Blazek, 2001). It gives a numerical solution of the
partial differential equations governing a flow field; such that the velocities, temperatures, etc. at all points in the
field are predicted (Etheridge and Sandberg, 1996). Compared with the wind tunnel measurement, the CFD
simulation has the advantage of simulating the boundary wind profile more easily, having no building size limitations,
as well as being cheaper to set up. It is also easier to carry out parameter study to find out the dominate factor for
the flow field studied.
2. Aims and Methods
 Wind profile:
The wind velocity profile was measured in Nottingham wind tunnel. The air temperature and pressure in the wind
tunnel were 20℃ and 1 atm respectively. The air density is 1.2kg/m3. The upstream wind dynamic pressure was
controlled at 4.5 Pa, which was measured by using a pitot tube located in the middle of the inlet section. So the
mean wind velocity is 2.7m/s, which also can be called as reference wind speed (Uref). The profile obtained in
Nottingham wind tunnel should be fitted into an equation which can give a good description of the wind speed
profile. The polynomial curve fitting for wind profile is shown in Figure 3.1. Based on the curve fitting, the wind
profile equation is given in equation [3-1].
H = 0.0416 v4–0.409 v3 + 1.5583 v2–2.5325 v + 1.50 [3-1]
Where, H is the height, m; v is wind velocity, m/s.
In order to utilize the profile directly in the CFD model, the equation [3-1] should be transferred into a polynomial
form as shown below.
177.0076.2221823.5998215.812336.5835117.207724.2 23456  HHHHHHv [3-2]
This polynomial equation [3-2] is specified on the inlet of the CFD boundary condition for all of the simulations in
this study.
Figure 3.1 The wind profile data and the fitting polynomial curve.
 Domain Layout:
Validation of a CFD model requires detailed information concerning the domain layout, boundary conditions and
independence of grid cells. Basically, a half building is simulated and located at the bottom of the model. The air
flow passes through or around the building from inlet to outlet. Figure3.2 shows the basic domain layout of CFD
models in three dimensions, which are 17.5H×11H×6H in streamwise i, vertical j and spanwise k direction, where H
is the height of the building.
Figure 3.3 Grid layout of the CFD model (241980 cells)
Figure 3.4 Grid dependency analysis for CFD simulation
4. Analysis
There are several parameters studied including effect of opening areas, u-flow and flow directions. In this paper,
only the effect of the opening area is presented due to the limit of the paper length.
Figure 4.1 shows all the figures analysed by the equation 5-1. As can be seen from those figures, it is found that the
Qi/Qo values on the leeward side are always denser than those on the windward side. It means that the pressure
distributions around the opening on the windward side have greater effect than those at leeward side. However,
when the u-flow velocity increases, the Qi/Qo lines for leeward side become sparser than those at the low u-flow
velocities. This phenomenon is very similar with the conclusion observed on the leeward side. When the opening
size is enlarged, the effect of changed u-flow is increasing. When opening areas increase, the air flow rates almost
have no changes except the area from 1-cell opening to 2-cells opening on the windward sides. In that region, the
Qi/Qo lines merely show an appreciably rise. Therefore, it can be said that the difference of the opening shapes and
sizes investigated in this study almost have no effect on the pressure distributions. On the windward side the
numbers of the points, whose average Qi/Qo values of the three openings are most close to 1, are 11, 20 and 27. The
positions of the three points are all located at the same height of the ventilation opening.
