Integration of the Adaptive Distance Learning Environment and the 
Development of Intelligent Tutoring Mechanism – IDEAS 
Lun-Ping Hung1, Ching-Sheng Wang2 and Chia-Ling Ho 3 
1Department of Information Management 
Northern Taiwan Institute of Science and Technology, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
robin@ntist.edu.tw 
2Department of Computer and Information Science 
 Aletheia University, Taiwan, R.O.C 
cswang@email.au.edu.tw 
3Department of International Trade 
Northern Taiwan Institute of Science and Technology, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
 
Abstract 
Using Internet technology to develop Intelligent Tutoring System (ITS) has become the major 
trend of the development of distance education. In this paper, we present an Intelligent Distance 
Education Assistant System (IDEAS) that integrate the adaptive distance learning environment 
and the development of intelligent tutoring mechanism. This system can reconcile with IMS 
Question & Test Interoperability proposed by IMS Global Learning Consortium and 
SCORM2004 standard course content proposed by ADL (Advanced Distributed Learning) for the 
purpose of sharing and reusing on-line material. System manager can optimize course and test 
content in order to effectively combine knowledge system, instructor’s teaching objective and 
student’s learning goal. This system provide appropriate learning plan to satisfy individualized 
learning needs through the operation of student learning interface module and clustering 
management module. Our goal is to establish a computer-based, intelligent, and personalized 
learning and teaching environment.  
Keywords: ITS (Intelligent Tutoring System), IDEAS (Intelligent Distance Education Assistant 
System), SCORM2004 
1. Introduction 
Due to the rapid development of world-wide-web, users who are located in different place with 
various equipments to utilize on-line service at different time can perform distance learning. 
Unlike the traditional-standardized learning environment that widely exists in current distance 
education system, in this study, we propose the establishment of IDEAS (Intelligent Distance 
Education Assistant System) which integrate various learning module in an adaptive learning 
environment. Based on on-line students’ information regarding personal background, learning 
behavior, and learning performance assessment, the proposed system can assist on-line instructor 
to provide adaptive instruction in order to satisfy on-line students’ various learning needs.  
 This paper is organized as follows. In section two, we briefly introduce the concept of 
Intelligent Tutoring System (ITS). Section three describes the establishment of student learning 
interface module. The process of student clustering and an example are given in section four. In 
QTI Delivery Applet is illustrated in figure 2 that demonstrate the content of a test.  
 
Figure 2: QTI Deliver Applet 
4. The Function of Student Clustering  
Student clustering is the core of IDEAS. It is responsible for analyzing students’ learning 
performance and assist online teacher to provide an adaptive learning environment. This function 
collects information including students’ personal background, learning behavior, and learning 
performance via learning interface module and then define clustering variables, calculate distance 
among observation data, and finally cluster observation data.  
4.1 Clustering Analysis 
Clustering analysis is used to divide students based on their personal background, learning 
behavior, and learning performance. In this paper, we adopt K-Means method that is widely used 
for clustering analysis. Observation data is clustered into K clusters based on criterion variables. 
Euclidean Distance is calculated in order to measure the distance or similarity between every two 
students. An example of calculating Euclidean Distance among observation data is listed in table 
1 that calculate the Euclidean Distance among five students whose criterion variables are age, 
education, browsing time, and grade.  
Table 1: Euclidean Distance ( Ed ) among five students 
Student 
ID 
Age Education Browsing 
time 
grade Ed (1 
with 
others)
Ed ( 2 
with 
others)
Ed ( 3 
with 
others) 
Ed ( 4 
with 
others) 
1 0 2 2 1     
2 1 1 1 2 2.0000    
3 1 1 2 1 1.4142 1.4142   
4 1 2 1 2 1.7321 1.0000 1.7321  
5 0 3 3 3 2.4495 3.1623 3.1623 2.6458 
 After the calculation of Euclidean Distance among students, we can cluster students into K 
clusters with K-Means clustering algorithm. An example of the result of K-Means clustering is 
shown in figure 3.  
 
Figure 3: An example of the result of K-Means clustering 
