Maintenance Outsourcing Contracts with Options for New Technology Adoptions 
 
1. Motivation 
In recent years, it has become a common practice for corporations to outsource 
maintenance functions to external contractors.  As with outsourcing other business functions, 
the two main benefits of maintenance outsourcing to a manufacturer are (a) to allow the 
manufacturer to focus on its core competencies and (b) to achieve cost reduction (Rollins and 
Johnson 2003; Simchi-Levi, Kaminsky, and Simchi-Levi, 2003).   
One main problem in maintenance outsourcing is the inflexibility of contractual terms, 
which impairs the manufacturer’s ability to respond to changes in the business environment.  
Technology advance has been identified as one of the three main uncertainties in today’s 
business environment (Zhang, Vonderembse, and Lim 2003), and failure to provide flexibility 
for new technology adoption has been a major problem for a successful outsourcing relationship 
(Milgate, 2001; Bent and Furton, 2003). 
We, therefore, propose using real options in maintenance contracts to provide flexibility 
for new technology adoption and changes in maintenance policies.  An option is commonly 
defined as the right, not the obligation, to take an action in the future (Amram and Kulatilaka 
1998).  If an option involves real activities or real commodities, it is normally called a real 
option.  Six general categories of real options include growth options, the option to expand 
scale, timing (the option to wait), the option to switch (inputs, and outputs or processes), the 
option to contract scale, and abandonment options (Trigeorgis, 1993).   
2 Literature review 
This study embraces three major research areas: (a) maintenance, (b) technology 
adoption, and (c) real options, each of which is elaborated upon briefly, below.  
2.1 Maintenance 
The design of maintenance policies is well-established (Wang (2002)), although 
maintenance outsourcing has received very little attention, focusing on the relationship between 
a manufacturer and a maintenance contractor.  Murthy and Asgharizadeh (1999) employed the 
principle of the Stackelberg game to derive an equilibrium solution by optimizing the 
contractor’s profit when the manufacturer’s decision process can be anticipated.  Tarakci, Tang, 
Moskowitz, and Plante (2003) investigated the coordination issues in a long-term outsourcing 
contract and proposed three methods for achieving maximum system efficiency. 
2.2 Technology adoption 
One of the major issues in technology adoption is the optimal timing of adoption when 
the arrival time of the new technology is uncertain (Fine 1993). The basic scenario is as follows. 
Consider a manufacturing process with multiple performance states. The process starts from the 
best performance state under the existing technology and deteriorates to inferior states over time. 
Suppose a new technology is known to be available in the future.  Therefore, the general issues 
difference between the manufacturer’s cost under an option contract and a regular contract.  
This represents the benefit of an option contract over a regular contract to the manufacturer or 
the maximum amount that a manufacturer should be willing to pay for including the option in 
the contract to compensate the contractor for the necessary effort and cost incurred by 
accommodating the option.  The analysis is also extended to allow multiple option points. 
4. Core Model  
We develop a basic model for a finite-term regular contract, and obtain and compare 
optimal solutions for the three payment methods.  Consider a continuous manufacturing process 
with a strictly increasing failure rate (IFR) function λ(t) > 0 over time t > 0, and λ(0) = 0.  
A manufacturer plans to outsource the PM and minimal repair functions to an external 
contractor for a finite contract period [0, D].  The arrangements (contract) between the two 
parties involve the PM schedule and the manufacturer’s payment to the contractor for the service 
provided.  The maintenance contractor is responsible for performing PM operations periodically 
according to a predetermined schedule, and for performing necessary repairs whenever the 
process breaks down.  
It is assumed that PM overhauls the process and restores the failure rate to the original 
(best) state; i.e., λ(0). We use Tp and Cp to denote the average time and cost required for the 
contractor to perform a PM operation, respectively. Moreover, a minimal repair merely restores 
the process back to operation, and the deterioration of the process continues during the repair.  
We use Tr and Cr to denote the average time and cost required to perform a minimal repair, 
respectively.   
Let n be the number of scheduled PMs during the contract period [0, D]. We define a PM 
interval as the time between the end of the last PM operation and the beginning of the next PM 
operation (the first PM interval is defined as the time from the start of the contract period to the 
beginning of the first PM operation).  Suppose we use PM intervals of equal length, which is the 
typical case in practice.  For given n, the PM interval is 
t¯  = 
 D 
 n  – Tp.            (1) 
In a given PM interval [0, t], the number of process failures in the time interval [0, t], 
denoted by N(t), is defined as a non-homogeneous Poisson process with intensity function λ(t).  
Therefore, the expected number of breakdowns in the time interval [0, t] is m(t) = ⌡⌠
 0 
 t
λ(s) ds (Ross, 
1996).  As a result, the expected downtime in [0, D] for given n is  
U(n)= n [Tp + Tr m( t¯ )].          (2) 
Let R be the unit time cost (loss) associated with downtime.  Then, the expected cost associated 
with downtime in the contact period is R×U(n).  Furthermore, the total expected maintenance 
cost is   
interval if the new technology has been available.  If the manufacturer adopts the new 
technology, an adoption fee of Ca is incurred.  The payment method and its corresponding 
parameters, a and b, remain the same for the entire contract period. 
We assume that D1 is the ending time of a PM operation so that the following 
manufacturing process and the following PM operation will be performed under the new 
technology after the technology is adopted. Under this assumption, the optimal PM intervals in 
[0, D1] have the same length.  Let t¯ 0 be the PM interval in [0, D1].  Similarly, the optimal PM 
intervals in [D1, D] have the same length.  We define t¯ 1 as the PM interval in [D1, D] if the 
new technology is not available at D1, and t¯ 2 as the PM interval in [D1, D] if the new 
technology is available and adopted. 
For given D1, the optimal number of PM operations in [0, D1] and [D1, D] can be obtained 
by using Lemma 1.  Define 
δ0 =  RTp + (1+b)Cp   RTr + (1+b)Cr  ,          (7) 
and  
δ1 =  RTp' + (1+b)Cp'   RTr' + (1+b)Cr'  .            (8) 
Let n0 be the number of PM operations in [0, D1], and n1 and n2 be those in [D1, D], 
respectively, under the existing and new technologies.  From Lemma 1, for given D1, the 
optimal n0 value is one of the two nearest integers of the solution of n to the following equation: 
g( D1  n0  – Tp) = δ0.           (9) 
Similarly, the equations for determining n1 and n2 are 
g( D – D1 n1  – Tp) = δ0.           (10) 
and  
g( D – D1 n2  – Tp') = δ1.           (11) 
For convenience, we define the manufacturer’s minimum expected cost when the process 
is operated for t units of time under the optimal maintenance policy and the existing technology 
as Π0(t), and that under the new technology as Π1(t).  With the option to change the PM 
interval at D1, the expected manufacturer’s cost is determined by 
ψ(D1) = Π0(D1) + ωΠ0(D – D1) + (1 – ω) [Π1(D – D1) + Ca],   (12) 
where ω = e-θD1 is the probability that the new technology is not available at the option point, D1. 
Definition 1.  The value of the option for changing the PM interval at D1 is the difference 
between the expected manufacturer’s costs without and with the option of adopting the new 
technology determined by Π0(D) – ψ(D1).  
numbers of PM intervals in [Dl, D] for the existing and new technologies.  Let n1
l and n2
l be the 
number of PM intervals in [Dl, Dl+1] under the existing technology and the number of PM intervals 
in [Dl, D] under the new technology, respectively.  Consequently, the decision for the 
manufacturer includes the L optimal option points and the associated PM intervals.  
The problem for a given L can be formulated as a dynamic program (DP).  Let ψ*(d, l) be 
the manufacturer’s optimal expected cost with option points during the period with length d.  The 
number of option points, l, can be viewed as the stage in the DP.  The boundary condition is given 
by the cost in stage 0 (l = 0) when the process is operated for d units of time under the optimal 
maintenance policy and the existing technology; i.e., 
ψ*(d, 0) = Π0(d).              (13) 
Because the arrival time of the new technology follows an exponential distribution, the functional 
equation connecting stage l and previous stages can be written as follows: 
ψ*(d, l) = 
 
Max
 dl 
 {Π0(dl) + ωl ×ψ*(d – dl, l – 1) + (1 – ωl) × [Π1(d – dl) + Ca]},  (14) 
where ωl = e-θdl is the probability that the new technology is not available in the period (0, dl).  Let 
dl
*  be the corresponding optimal length of the PM interval.  The minimal manufacturer’s 
expected cost under the outsourcing contract with L option points during (0, D) is ψ*(D, L), and 
the optimal solution is  
D1* = dL
*, 
D2* = dL
* + dL–1
* , 
…, 
Di* = 
 L
Σ
 j=L - i+1 
 dj
*  for i =1,…, L. 
Note that the special case with L = 1 has been discussed and solved in section 3.  It is expected 
that Π0(d) is not a well-behaved function, which suggests the numerical search on dl may 
terminate at a local optimum.  However, similar to and extending the single point case 
developed in section 3, the above DP can be solved when the numbers of PM, n0, n1
1,  n2
1, …, n1
L, 
and n2
L, are given.  Therefore, by solving the DP through all possible sets of n0, n1
1,  n2
1, …, n1
L, 
and n2
L, we can find the optimal solution.   
Given n0, n1
1,  n2
1, …, n1
L, and n2
L, the manufacturer’s expected cost for given (D1, D2, …, 
DL) is  
ψ(D1,D2,…,DL) = Π0(n0, D1) + (1 – ω1)×[Π1(n21, D–D1)+Ca]} + ω1×Π0(n11, D2–D1) 
     + (ω1 – ω2) × [Π1(n22, D–D2) + Ca] + ω2 × Π0(n12, D3–D2) + … 
     + (ωL–1 – ωL) × [Π1(n2L, D–DL) + Ca] + ωL × Π0(n1L, D–DL),   (15) 
where 
set earlier.  We also showed that if the new technology reduces maintenance costs, the CPM 
method is more sensitive to the adoption of the new technology and results in a higher option 
value than either the FP or CPFF methods.  On the other hand, if adopting the new technology 
results in higher maintenance costs, the option value of the FP is relatively greater. 
The model with a single option point was extended to one with multiple option points.  
Because of more opportunities available for adopting the new technology, contracts with multiple 
option points resulted in higher option values as compared to the relatively more restrictive 
contract with a single option point.  A solution procedure based on dynamic programming is 
proposed for finding the optimal option points.  Note that using a large number of option points 
may not always be a good strategy because it may lead to a higher cost due to frequent changes in 
PM intervals and unnecessary PM operations.  A possible method for determining the optimal 
number of option points is to find the largest option value by a complete enumeration in a wide 
range of the number of possible option points.  
When contemplating future research opportunities, the proposed framework can be 
extended to address many issues in maintenance outsourcing when uncertainties exist in 
formulating maintenance strategies. For example, real options may be used to provide a 
manufacturer and a contractor with flexibilities to alter PM schedule when an accurate estimate 
for the process failure rate is not available (e.g., a new manufacturing process).  Moreover, 
because maintenance is an integral part of manufacturing, options in maintenance contracts can be 
considered under or jointly with manufacturing options, which include altering (expand or reduce) 
manufacturing scales, changing production materials and other inputs, temporarily halting 
production, and/or abandoning a production plan (Trigeorgis, 1993).   
