2需的服務品質。然而在 Mesh 的環境下，由於 SS 之
間可以直接互相傳送資料，使得資料傳送的路徑可
以有多種走法，如何善用此一優點，利用更完善的
路 徑 選 擇 方 式 ， 增 加 網 路 的 使 用 率
（utilization），並且提供滿足使用者需求的服
務品質，是值得我們深入思考的。同時在先前關於
IEEE 802.16 Mesh 的研究中，大多針對集中式的排
程並且固定路徑（如 tree 的形式）的方式，提供
使用者所需的服務，如此大大的降低了 Mesh 的應
用範圍。
因此，本研究主要的目的在於，如何設計 802.16
Mesh 網路之允入控制機制（Admission control），
並利用有效的路徑選擇（Route selection, Layer 3）
及傳送排程（Scheduling, Layer 2）方式，增加網路
的使用效率並且滿足使用者的需求，並且進一步整
合成為適合在 IEEE 802.16 Mesh 環境之 QoS
Framework。此外，由於行動網路是未來的必然趨
勢，我們相信，IEEE 802.16 Mesh 網路必然會提供
行動使用者所需的傳輸機制（e.g. IEEE 802.16e
Mesh Mode）。
三、文獻探討 IEEE 802.16 標準介紹
如前所述，在 IEEE 802.16 標準中訂定了兩種不同
的網路建置方式，分別為 PMP 及 Mesh。在 PMP 模式
下，所有的 SS 都與 BS 直接建立 connection，在使
用 TDD（Time Division Duplex）的傳輸方式下，
網路資源的分配都是由 BS 控管，亦即由 BS 決定何
時由哪一個 SS 上傳（uplink，由 SS 送至 BS）或下
載（downlink，由 BS 至 SS）資料。由於在 PMP 模
式下，BS 與所有 SS 都有連線，因此在此環境下只
需考慮到頻寬的分配以及排程的問題。當 SS 有資
料需要傳送至 BS 再由 BS 送至 Internet 時，SS 便
需要向 BS 要求頻寬（使用 DSA/DSC/DSD），而 BS 則
依照各 SS的頻寬需求及資料型態（UGS、rtPS、nrtPS
或 BE）作出排程（UL-MAP），SS 則是依照 UL-MAP
在屬於自己的 time slot 中將資料上傳至 BS。相對
的當 BS 有資料需要傳給 SS 時，也需要依照資料的
型態作出排程（DL-MAP），而 SS 則是依照 DL-MAP
在所屬的 time slot 中接收資料。
在 Mesh 模式中，由於 SS 間可以直接建立連線，因
此並沒有如 PMP 模式中有明顯的 uplink 或
downlink 的區別；也因為相鄰的 SS 間可以直接互
相傳送資料，使得資料傳送的路徑不僅止於一種。
此外由於無線訊號的傳送有著 Hidden node 的問
題，使得資料在傳送時必須考慮到鄰近兩個 hops
內的 SS，也就是當某個 SS 在傳送資料時，其鄰近
2 hops 內的所有 SS 都無法傳送資料，以免造成無
線訊號傳送時的干擾（Interference）。因此在 Mesh
下必須考慮到資料傳送的路徑選擇（ route
selection）及排程的問題。
為了提供多媒體等需要良好傳輸品質的應用服
務，必須有合適的 QoS 提供機制，針對如 delay、
bandwidth 的需求等加以規劃與安排。傳統的 PMP
模式由於所有的網路資源都是由 BS 決定，BS 與所
有 SS 間皆直接建立連線且無需考量到傳送路徑的
問題，因此只需要透過合適的排程即可達到 QoS 的
需求。而在 Mesh 模式下，如果可以透過選擇干擾
較少的路徑 - 讓資料傳送的過程中，不受到其他
SS 傳送資料的干擾，並且選擇 end-to-end delay
較小的路徑，避免資料集中於某些 SS 上，使得資
料傳送時能夠更順暢。此外，由於在 Mesh 模式下
是使用 TDD 作為資料傳送的方式，因此也可以透過
適當的排程方式（如 spatial reuse），增加網路的
使用率或是降低資料傳送的延遲（delay）。
依照 802.16-2004 標準的規範，在 Mesh mode 中的
排程方式，可以分為集中式排程（centralized
scheduling ） 以 及 分 散 式 排 程 （ distributed
scheduling），或是混合以上兩種方式的排程
（combination scheduling）方式。
四、研究方法
此計畫的目標為設計合適 IEEE 802.16 Mesh 網路
環境之 QoS 相關機制，包括 Admission control,
Route Selection, 以及 Scheduling 機制等。研究
方法討論法如下：
在標準中定義了 MAC Layer 及 Physical Layer 的
架構，而沒有指定上層（Layer 3）使用的通訊協
定。在此，為了讓我們所提出的機制運作能與上層
協定相互配合，我們使用 IP 作為 Layer 3 的通訊
協定，而在 Mesh 模式下網路位址（IP address）
的分配，每個 Subscriber Station(SS)都是一個網
4料流則是要在剩餘頻寬（不包含 BE 使用之頻寬）
大於等於所要求的頻寬時，才能允許進入 Mesh 網
路中。
路徑選擇（Route Selection）：
在原始的分散式排程中，由於所有 SS 都需要有一
份 Mesh 的完整拓樸資訊，而此拓樸資訊必需經由
flooding 的方式才能散佈到整個 Mesh 網路上，如
此會大大地增加 signaling cost。因此我們選擇由
BS 來決定資料傳送的路徑（route selection）以
及作為整個 Mesh 與 Internet 連接的端點（edge
gateway）；當 Mesh 內的 SS 有新的資料流（data
flow）產生時，都必須向 BS 發出 route request
的訊息，由 BS 依照 SS 的 QoS 需求（bandwidth、
delay…等），尋找一條最佳路徑讓該資料流使用。
在路徑的選擇上，考量到 QoS 的支援，我們是以最
小傳送延遲（minimal-delay-first）作為路徑決
策的依據，因此 SS 除了需告知 BS 所需的頻寬之
外，還需告知該資料流對 delay bound 為何。如此
一來，BS 便依此參數，在 source 與 destination
之間，找出擁有足夠剩餘頻寬同時滿足 delay 需求
的路徑。為了達到 QoS 的支援，BS 除了要知道整個
網路的拓樸資訊外，SS 還必須回報本身的狀態資訊
（如剩餘 bandwidth、queue length 等）給 BS，讓
BS 以此資訊作為 admission control 及 route
selection 的依據。
由於 SS 的狀態資訊只有 BS 需要知道，因此，SS 在
回報狀態資訊時，只要使用 unicast 的方式傳送資
訊即可；在我們的方法中，SS 回報的資訊為 4 種
QoS service flow（UGS, rtPS, nrtPS 及 BE）平
均停留在 buffer/queue 內的時間（Average system
time：T）；而狀態資訊回報的時機，除了週期性的
回報之外，當 T的變化量(與前一次回報的值比較)
大於某一個 threshold 時，SS 也必須將這個變化回
報給 BS。有了所有 SS 的狀態資訊後，每當 SS 向
BS 發出 routing request 時，BS 便可以依此資訊
決定新的資料流可以走的路徑。
QoS 排程（QoS Scheduling）：
在獲得 BS 回報的路徑資訊之後，SS 便開始針對自
己所需傳送的資料量，向 BS 要求傳送機會，由 BS
統一作排程的動作。而與傳統集中式排程不同的
是，我們的排程方式會視 SS 間傳送資料時所可能
產生的干擾狀況，而排出能有最多個 SS 同時（同
一個 time slot）傳送資料，進而提升網路的
throughput 並降低資料傳送的延遲。當 SS 向 BS 要
求傳送機會時，必須提供 BS 其所需傳送的資料量，
以及該資料的延遲（delay）情況，以作為 BS 排程
的依據。此外，由於 UGS 的資料在四種資料類型
（UGS、rtPS、nrtPS 及 BE）中最為重要，因此在
我們方法中，BS 必須優先針對 UGS 的資料作排程。
因此，SS 必須先以下面之計算方式，依照其所擁有
的 UGS 資料量及 delay 情況，計算出其競爭值，如
下所示：
)( ,,,, iUGSiUGSUGSiUGSiUGS WDHWXMT 
上式中，XMTUGS,i為各 SS_i 所回報針對 UGS 資料的競
爭值；而 DUGS,i為 SS_i 所需要傳送的 UGS 總資料量；
WUGS,i則為 SS_i 的 UGS 資料中，超過 delay bound
的資料量；而 HUGS則是超過 delay bound 之 UGS 資
料的權重值。由上式可知，當 SS 所需傳送的 UGS
資料中有越多延遲的資料量，將會使得 XMTUGS,i 越
大。因此，在我們的排程中，將以 XMTUGS,i作為 UGS
資料排程的依據。
而針對 rtPS 及 nrtPS 的資料，同樣需要考量到
delay bound 的問題，因此我們使用與 UGS 資料相
同的計算競爭值（XMT Value）的方式，針對超過
delay bound 的資料加權後成為競爭值。而 BE 的資
料方面，由於不需考量到 delay 的問題，因此我們
將 BE 的資料量即視為 BE 的競爭值。如下所示：
iBEiBE
inrtPSinrtPSnrtPSinrtPSinrtPS
irtPSirtPSrrPSirtPSirtPS
DXMT
WDHWXMT
WDHWXMT
,,
,,,,
,,,,
)(
)(



如上式所示，我們在計算競爭值時會依照資料型態
（rtPS 或 nrtPS）的不同給予其不同的權重，使得
擁有較多高優先權（high priority）資料的 SS 能
夠有較大的競爭值。而 BS 便是依照各 SS 回報的競
爭值，依照四種不同的 service type（UGS、rtPS、
nrtPS 及 BE）依序作排程。
在 TDD 的傳送方式下，BS 的排程即是安排某一個
6圖二、Delay and delay variation with flow data rate
2.5 Mbps: Proposed vs. Centralized
圖三、Delay and delay variation with flow data rate
2.5 Mbps: Proposed vs. Distributed
圖四、Average throughput of rtPS flows
圖五、Average throughput of nrtPS flows
圖六、Average signaling cost

Abstract—A variety of issues, both technical and commercial,
has hampered the widespread deployment of IP multicast in the
global Internet. Application Level Multicast (ALM) approaches
using the overlay network have been recently proposed as a
viable alternative to IP multicast. In this paper, we proposed a
DNS-aided ALM which builts overlay network with the help of
the existing Domain Name Service (DNS). The simulation study
shows that the proposed protocol have better Relative Delay
Penalty and Link Stress for performance, but with lower
protocol overhead and Resource Usage for multicast
transmission in comparison with two existing ALM solutions,
NARADA and NICE.
Index Terms—Application Layer Multicast (ALM), Domain
Name Service (DNS).
I. INTRODUCTION
IP multicast (network-layer multicast) [1] is a protocol to
deliver information to multiple receivers by using the most
efficient strategy. The messages are delivered over each link
of the network only once and are only duplicated in the split of
a link to different receivers. Bandwidth is significantly saved
for a path split which is closer to receivers. Neither a sender
nor a middle node has to keep the state of all receivers. It is an
efficient mechanism for packet delivery in one-to-many data
transfer applications.
Nevertheless, at present, a large part of the Internet is still
incapable of supporting native IP multicast. Due to various
technical and administrational issues, IP multicast has not
been widely deployed after the protocol was developed for
more than a decade. The current model [2]-[5] allows for an
arbitrary source to send data to an arbitrary group at any time.
This induces a serious problem of network vulnerable for
flooding attacks by malicious sources. As a result, the
network management and provisioning services become too
complicated which makes a large number of network
administrators to be unwilling to deploy IP multicasting.
Both IP unicast and IP multicast have their individual
strengths and weaknesses. Many researchers contributed
efforts in Application-Layer Multicast (ALM) protocols [6]-[8]
Manuscript received November, 2007.
Sze-Horng Lee is with the department of computer science and
information engineering, National Chi Nan University, Puli, Taiwan, 545
ROC. (e-mail: leeh@ncnu.edu.tw).
Chun-Chuan Yang is with the department of computer science and
information engineering, National Chi Nan University, Puli, Taiwan, 545
ROC. (e-mail: ccyang@csie.ncnu.edu.tw).
Hsiu-Lun Hsu was with the department of computer science and
information engineering, National Chi Nan University, Puli, Taiwan, 545
ROC. (e-mail: leiyate@stu.csie.ncnu.edu.tw).
which utilize the strength of both IP layer protocols and
reduce their weaknesses. ALM protocols do not require the
network infrastructure for multicast supporting but using the
IP unicast with intelligence. More specifically, instead of
relying on the supporting of IP multicast routers, the multicast
forwarding functionality of ALM are implemented at end
Hosts. Such ALM protocols have been increasingly used to
implement efficient commercial content-distribution
networks [9], [10]. ALM nodes (end Hosts) participating in a
multicast group, or proxies that operate on the behalf of the
nodes, are organized into ALM overlay network for multicast
data delivery. The network is an overlay in the sense that each
link corresponds to a unicast path between two end systems in
the underlying Internet.
Drawbacks of application-layer multicast include (1)
duplicate packets on physical links, and (2) a larger
end-to-end delay than IP Multicast. The key idea for reducing
these drawbacks is to build a multicast tree which is as close
to the IP multicast tree as possible. Existing approaches for
ALM focus on network characteristics (e.g., latency) to
construct the multicast distribution tree. From the aspect of
network layering concept, it is basically impossible for an
application layer mechanism such as ALM to get the real
topological information about the physical network [11], [12].
Therefore, most of the existing ALM solutions rely on
probing the path status among individual end Hosts and
reconfigure the ALM overlay network on a regular basis so as
to improve the transmission performance. Major performance
concerns of the solutions relying on the probing mechanism
are (1) the large amount of probing messages [13]-[15] and (2)
the longer time for the overlay network to stabilize [16]-[19].
In light of the fact that two closely related DNS (Domain
Name Service) names (e.g. two DNS names share a same
large part) normally imply the proximity in the network
distance between the Hosts, the DNS names of participating
end Hosts in a group can provide helpful information for
constructing the ALM overlay network. In this paper, a
DNS-aided Application Layer Multicast protocol is proposed.
With the help of DNS, construction of the ALM overlay
network in the proposed protocol is faster and more efficient.
Simulation study has demonstrated that the DNS-aided ALM
outperforms two typical ALM protocols, NARADA [6] and
NICE [16], in terms of lower signaling cost, transmission
delay, and the number of links used.
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Related
works are discussed in section II. The DNS-aided
application-level multicast protocol is explained in section III.
Performance evaluation for the protocol is presented in
section IV. Section V concludes the paper.
A DNS-aided Application Layer Multicast
Protocol
Sze-Horng Lee, Chun-Chuan Yang, and Hsiu-Lun Hsu
III. DNS-AIDED ALM
Each physical link that required by IP multicast is only used
by once for a multicast packet. As mentioned in the previous
section, most of the ALM protocols tried to guess what the
real network topology is like by using different methods.
Unfortunately most of them have to pay large overhead or
need longer time for stabilization. We believe that a large part
of Internet nodes have at least one domain name that can
relate to the physical network topology. The goal of our
proposal is try to build an overlay network as closer as IP
multicast network. As a result, we will enjoy the benefits of
application-level multicasting but only paid the cost closer to
IP multicasting. It is reasonable to assume that every Internet
nodes can easily use domain name service. The service is
already there and be part of Internet. So we do not need to pay
any extra effort to deal with this service for other applications
may also need to use it.
The proposed protocol tries to build an overlay network
which is closer to a real network by the help of the DNS name,
perhaps not fully matched but be closer when compared with
other ALM solutions only using ping, traceroute, etc. First of
all, a DNS-tree is built based on the DNS names of all
participants of the group. Additional links are then added
among the members that are located in the same DNS-tree
node to form a tree-like mesh network. A source-based
multicast delivery tree can be easily constructed from the
mesh network when a member would like to send multicast
packets to all group members. As in other ALM solution, a
Rendezvous Point (RP) is assumed in the protocol for
membership management. Moreover, the RP also helps for
the construction as well as the information distribution of the
DNS-tree and the mesh network. Related mechanisms in the
proposed protocol are presented as follows.
A. DNS-tree for a group and domain head selection
In order to build the DNS-tree for a group, the DNS names
of all members must be first collected in the RP, which means
that each member joining the group must present its DNS
name. The DNS-tree of the group is then constructed by
extracting different levels of the DNS names of the group and
associates each member with the appropriate tree node. For
example, for the group with nine members in Table 1, the
DNS-tree is displayed in Fig. 3. Note that in the DNS-tree, the
non-leaf nodes (rectangle nodes in Fig. 3) represent different
levels of DNS domains, and the leaf nodes (circle nodes in Fig.
3) represent the members of the group. Since Host1, Host2,
and Host3 share the same domain“ncnu.edu.tw.”, they are put
under the same non-leaf node in the DNS-tree.
Table 1: Member lists of a group for an example.
Host1.ncnu.edu.tw. Host2.ncnu.edu.tw.
Host3.ncnu.edu.tw. Host4.csie.ncnu.edu.tw.
Host5.csie.ncnu.edu.tw. Host6.im.ncnu.edu.tw.
Host7.ntu.edu.tw. Host8.csh.org.tw.
Host9.hinet.net.
Host5Host4
.
Host6
edu.tw.
tw. net.
org.tw. hinet.net.
ncnu.edu.tw. ntu.edu.tw. csh.org.tw.
csie.ncnu.edu.tw. csie.ncnu.edu.tw.
Host9
Host8Host7Host1 Host2 Host3
DNS domain
Group
member
Fig. 3 The DNS-tree for the group in Table 1.
Host6Host5Host4
edu.tw.Host7
tw.Host7 net.Host9
org.tw.Host8 hinet.net.Host9
ncnu.edu.tw.Host2 ntu.edu.tw.Host7 csh.org.tw.Host8
csie.ncnu.edu.tw.Host5 im.ncnu.edu.tw.Host6
Domain Head
steps
Host1 Host2 Host3 Host7 Host8
Host9
Fig. 4 Assigning domain heads for the DNS-tree in Fig. 3.
To properly connect all the members in the same group, we
must select a proper member on behalf of each domain in the
DNS-tree. The member on behalf of a domain is called a
domain head (DH) in the paper. The process of selecting the
DH for each domain is performed from the bottom level to the
top level of the DNS-tree. A member will be selected as a DH
if there is no other competitor. For example, Host6 is the
default DH for the domain“im.ncnu.edu.tw.”in Fig. 3.
Competition for the DH of a domain occurs when there is
more than one candidate. In such case, all candidates measure
and compare their Round Trip Time (RTT) to a randomly
selected member that is located outside the sub-tree rooted by
the domain name in interest. The member with the smallest
RTT becomes the DH of the domain name, since the DH
should be closer to the outside world than other candidates.
For example, Host4 and Host5 in Fig. 3 measures the RTT to
Host7 in competition for the DH of “csie.ncnu.edu.tw.”.
Host5 becomes the DH since its RTT is smaller as shown in
Fig. 4. The process of competition for the DH of each domain
continues upwardly until all DHs are selected. For example,
Host1, Host2, Host3, Host5 (the DH of“csie.ncnu.edu.tw.”),
and Host6 (the DH of“csie.ncnu.edu.tw.”) in Fig. 3 compete
for the DH of“ncnu.edu.tw.”. Fig. 4 serves as an example of
the result of the DH selection process for Fig. 3.
B. Building the control mesh and the data delivery tree
In the DNS-tree of a group, the communications among the
members in the same domain (e.g. Host1 and Host3 in Fig. 4)
must be relayed via the DH. But sharing the same domain
implies the close relationship in the physical network, adding
additional links among these members should not cause too
much overhead and can reduce the transmission latency in
multicast delivery. Therefore, we propose that the members in
and maintain the control mesh network. In ALM, a node needs
to exchange routing information or refresh (hello) messages
with its neighbors in the mesh network. Since a larger number
of mesh links implies a larger Protocol Overhead, we defined
Protocol Overhead of an ALM protocol as the number of
mesh links in the control mesh network.
Resource Usage is the total number of hop-wise
transmission for a single multicast transmission. For better
comparison with the optimal solution of IP multicast, we
define Resource Usage in the paper as the normalized term by
IP multicast (i.e. Resource Usage of IP multicast is set to 1).
B. Simulation results
ARDP and MRDP of NARADA, NICE, and the proposed
DNS-aided protocol are displayed in Fig. 7 and Fig. 8
respectively. The figures show that for large group sizes (128
and above), the delay performance of NICE drops seriously in
contrast to the other schemes. The reason is the multi-level
hierarchical structure in NICE is aiming to reduce the cost of
mesh construction, but the tree-like mesh presents the longer
path for multicast transmission. Also adopting a tree-like
structure for the overly mesh network, but the proposed
DNS-aided scheme does not present the poor delay
performance as in NICE, which demonstrates the mesh
network in the DNS-aided scheme is close to the underlying
physical topology.
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
8 16 32 64 128 256 512
Group Size (Number of Nodes=1024)
A
ve
ra
ge
R
el
at
iv
e
D
el
ay
Pe
na
lt
y
NARADA
NICE
DNS-aided
Fig. 7 ARDP for Narada, NICE and DNS-aided ALM under
different group sizes.
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
7000
8 16 32 64 128 256 512
Group Size (Number of Nodes=1024)
M
ax
im
um
R
el
at
iv
e
D
el
ay
Pe
na
lt
y
NARADA
NICE
DNS-aided
Fig. 8 MRDP for Narada, NICE and DNS-aided ALM under
different group sizes.
Average and Maximum Link Stress for the three schemes
are displayed in Fig. 9 and Fig. 10 respectively. Note that Link
Stress of IP multicast is 1, therefore the figures demonstrate
that the proposed scheme is closer to IP multicast in the aspect
of link usage. Higher Link Stress (avg. and max.) of
NARADA is due to the mechanism of adding links to the
mesh network. The mechanism can help to reduce delay as
shown in Fig. 7 and Fig. 8, but it introduces larger Link Stress,
Protocol Overhead, and Resource Usage as displayed in Fig.
9–Fig. 12.
NICE and the DNS-aided scheme take advantage of the
hierarchical characteristic in mesh network construction,
therefore the two schemes save much Protocol Overhead for
large group sizes in contrast to NARADA as shown in Fig. 11.
Fig. 12 shows that the hierarchical schemes, NICE and
DNS-aided, requires less network resource for multicast
transmission especially for large group sizes. Moreover, the
DNS-aided scheme even outperforms NICE in terms of
Resource Usage. The simulation result presents the gain of the
DNS-aided scheme over NICE in Resource Usage is 122%
for group size 8, 65% for group size 64, and 35% for group
size 512.
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
8 16 32 64 128 256 512
Group Size (Number of Nodes=1024)
A
ve
ra
ge
L
in
k
St
re
ss
NARADA
NICE
DNS-aided
Fig. 9 Average Link Stress for Narada and DNS-aided ALM
under different group sizes.
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
8 16 32 64 128 256 512
Group Size (Number of Nodes=1024)
M
ax
im
um
L
in
k
St
re
ss
NARADA
NICE
DNS-aided
Fig. 10 Maximum Link Stress for Narada, NICE and DNS-aided
ALM under different group sizes.
