The sloshing phenomena arising in two-dimensional 
tanks was studied in the present research. The tank 
shapes for which the sloshing problem was studied 
include rectangle, oval, modified oval, circle, and 
modified polygon. The effects which were investigated 
include sloshing wave propagation, peak impact load, 
and sloshing phenomena when the exciting frequency is 
close to the natural frequency. The results show that 
the geometrical shape has vital effects on sloshing. 
 
英文關鍵詞： two-dimensional sloshing, geometrical effect, 
sloshing reduction 
 
 2
中文摘要 
在本研究中，我們運用計算有限體積法探討不同幾何形狀
槽箱的二維沖激現象，在迭代運算上，我們採用 PISO 算則，
在時間迭代上，我們採用二階隱式法。除了傳統上常見的
二維幾何形狀外，我們也探討特殊設計的幾何形狀。研究
結果顯示：幾何形狀確實對沖激現象有顯著的影響，包括
沖激波高的變化、壁面沖激負荷的峰值。 
關鍵字：二維沖激，幾何形狀效應，沖激減降 
英文摘要 
In the present study, we conducted a series of two-dimensional 
computations to investigate the sloshing motion in half-filled 
tanks of constant volume and different shapes. The 
Navier-Stokes equations were discretized by the finite volume 
method. The PISO algorithm and the second-order implicit 
technique were employed for nonlinear iterations in space and 
marching in time, respectively. The sloshing in several com-
mon and specially-designed tank geometries was studied. Mild 
sloshing motions were computed. The transient pressure 
variation on walls and the change of the free surface in time 
were observed. We found that the geometry did have 
significant effects on the peak pressure on the wall. 
Keywords: Two-dimensional sloshing, geometric effects, 
sloshing reduction 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Sloshing is an important two-phase flow problem in liquid 
cargo tanks in, for examples, aerospace vehicles, ocean-going 
ships, and road tankers. It appears when the liquid cargo is 
partially filled in the tank which is subject to time-dependent 
motion under external excitations.  
To reduce sloshing motions, various ways have been 
developed in the literature. One of the intuitive ways is the 
addition of baffles in the tank. Baffles induce flow separation 
which results in energy dissipaton and reduction in sloshing 
amplitude and, consequently, hydrodynamic load. Many 
installations of baffles on the walls for tanks of various shapes 
have been developed in the literature.  
Liu and Lin [1] studied two- and three-dimensional 
sloshing with a vertical baffle installed on the bottom of a tank. 
Their studies showed that highly turbulent flow appeared 
around the baffle and effectively reduced sloshing impact 
pressure on the tank walls. Cho et al. [2] investigated sloshing 
in a rectangular tank with a pair of horizontal baffles on the 
two side walls. They concluded by computations that the 
fundamental resonance frequency of sloshing could be adjusted 
with the baffle. Biswal [3] conducted a similar study and found 
that suppression became more significantly if the baffles were 
closer to the free surface. Akyildiza and Ünal [4] studied 
experimentally sloshing in a rectangular tank with both 
horizontal and vertical baffles of different dimensions. They 
also found that baffles significantly reduced fluid motion and, 
therefore, impact pressures. Recently, using an evolutionary 
optimization method, Kim and Lee [5] attempt to optimize the 
baffle installation height and baffle width in order to reduce 
sloshing due to translational motion. They found that a sloshing 
reduction up to 76% could be achieved. Furthermore, 
Panigrahy et al. [6] conducted a series of three-dimensional 
sloshing experiments with a baffled tank. Two horizontal 
flat-plate baffles were installed on the two opposite side walls 
and another two vertical baffles with several circular holes on 
the other two walls normal to the motion direction. They 
showed that non-conventional baffles could be more effective 
on sloshing reduction.  
Another possible way to reduce sloshing is to employ a 
flexible tank. Gradinscak [7] indicated that “intentionally 
introduced flexibility of the container is capable of producing 
effective control.” He proposed a tuning method in order to 
achieve an optimal flexible tank which is able to suppress 
violent sloshing via a strong interaction between the tank and 
the liquid. The reduction of sloshing can be up to 80%. In 
addition, Anderson et al. [8] proposed a two-plate device 
floating on the free surface to control the liquid sloshing in 
rigid cylindrical tanks. Their experiments showed that it was 
effective in suppressing sloshing wave. 
Recently, more attention has been paid on the possible 
effects of the geometrical shape of a tank on sloshing reduction. 
This is possibly a better way in that no installation of additional 
parts is needed. Sandstrom & Yung [9] proposed a special tank 
shape which may reduce sloshing impact. Romero et al. [10] 
conducted the experimental assessment of lateral sloshing 
forces in road tankers of different shapes. They ranked the tank 
shapes in terms of the corresponding average sloshing force 
and found that the rank depended on the fill level. This 
conclusion shows that the selection of tank shape is not simple. 
In the present study, we carried out a series of 
computations to study the effect of different tank shapes on the 
development of sloshing phenomena.  
 
PHYSICAL PROBLEM AND NUMERICAL STRATEGY 
Shown in Fig. 1, a two-dimensional tank of  arbitrary 
shape is filled with liquid of depth d0 at equilibrium.  Subject 
to external time-dependent disturbances, the tank moves and 
sloshing occurs. To describe the motion, we employ two 
coordinate systems. The x-z coordinate system is attached to 
and moves with the tank and the x-z coordinate system is fixed. 
The equations of motion for the liquid can be expressed by the 
Navier-Stokes equations as 
2 2
2
2 2
2 2
2
2 2
0
12 sin
12 cos
c
c
u w
x z
u u u p u uu w w g z x x
t x z x x z
w w w p w wu w u g x z z
t x z z x z
    
    
   
                       
                       
   
   
                          (1) 
where u and w denote the velocity components in x- and 
z-direction, respectively, p is the static pressure,   is the 
liquid density,  is the liquid kinematic viscosity, and g is the 
gravitational acceleration. Furthermore, cx  and cz  represent 
the linear acceleration components of the tank, respectively, 
and   and   the angular acceleration and velocity due to 
the tank rolling, respectively. In the moving x-z coordinate 
system, the no-slip boundary condition is applied to the wall 
boundaries. To solve the equation system, we also require that 
the tank system is static at some initial moment, say t = 0. 
For computations, the finite volume method was adopted 
to discretize the governing equations and the PISO (Pressure 
Implicit with Splitting of Operator) algorithm was employed 
for nonlinear iterations. To take care of the free surface, the 
VOF technique was used. 
Three typical tank shapes and two modified tank shapes 
were studied. The typical shapes include rectangle, circle, and 
ellipse (with ratios of minor radius, b, to major radius, a, being 
 4
    
t = 5.78sec   t = 5.92sec  t = 6.06sec  t = 6.20sec  t = 6.35sec 
(a) Rectangular tank. 
         
t = 5.67sec  t = 5.81sec  t = 5.95sec  t = 6.09sec  t = 6.22sec 
 (b) Circular tank. 
         
t = 6.98sec  t = 7.14sec  t = 7.31sec  t = 7.48sec  t = 7.64sec 
 (c) Elliptical tank (b/a = 0.9). 
        
t = 13.63sec  t = 13.79sec t = 13.95sec  t = 14.11sec t = 14.27sec
 (d) Elliptical tank (b/a = 0.8). 
      
t = 7.20sec  t = 7.36sec  t = 7.52sec  t = 7.68sec  t = 7.83sec 
 (e) Elliptical tank (b/a = 0.7). 
      
t = 5.99sec  t = 6.15sec   t = 6.36sec  t = 6.46sec  t = 6.60sec 
 (f) Elliptical tank (b/a = 0.6). 
Fig. 4 Free surface variation for sloshing in tanks of different 
shapes at their maximum sloshing heights. 
walls and breaking waves appear. Of particular significance 
appears in the case of b/a = 0.8. And the sloshing waves are 
totally different from those appearing in the circular tank. 
Fig. 5 shows the total pressure distributions on the left tank 
wall with respect to time. For the rectangular tank, the total 
pressure varies smoothly with respect to time. It decreass and 
increases periodically. Furthermore, its variation on the left wall 
reflects the beat effect. For the circular and elliptical tanks, the 
story is somewhat different. The variation of the total pressure 
is somewhat complicated. Before and after a wave crest hits the 
wall, the total pressure increases and decreases twice. This 
becomes more prominent as the ratio of b/a is decreased. 
Furthermore, for the cases of b/a being equal to 0.8 and 0.7, the 
total pressure varies sharply as the wave crests hit the wall. This 
reflects the fact of sharp wave crests discussed previously. 
To summarize the discussions, we conclude that at the 
water occupation percentage discussed in the present study, the 
circular tank is of the best shape. It induces smaller and 
smoother sloshing waves. Meanwhile, we find that even with a 
simple external excitation, the sloshing become complicated as 
can be observed in the elliptical tanks with various ratio of b/a. 
 
Modified Shapes 
The frequency used for computations is identical to that of 
rectangular tank discussed in the last section. 
Fig. 6 shows the water height on the left tank wall with 
respect to time. Also shown in the plot is the time-variation of 
sloshing height in the rectangular tank for comparison purposes. 
It is evident to observe that both modified shapes can effec-
tively reduce sloshing. However, they also obviously exhibit 
different physical features. Both shapes induce sloshing waves 
of about the same crest height but different trough height. Even 
though the wave troughs for both shapes are lower than that of 
the rectangular tank, the tank of M2 shape creates much lower 
sloshing wave trought. This results in a larger wave amplitude 
for the M2 shape. We also found such a phenomenon in 
computations with several different frequencies. 
Fig. 7 shows the sloshing wave  with largest amplitude at 
different time. Basically, we find that the sloshing phenomenon 
for M1 shape does not significantly differ from that in the 
circular tank discussed in the last section. Nevertheless, the 
wave amplitidue induced in the tank of M1 shape is much 
smaller than that in the circular tank, as can be observed in Figs. 
6 and 3. For the M2 shape, it is obvious that the lowest point 
where the sloshing wave can reach on the walls is lower than 
that in the tank of M1 shape. Both shapes induce mild and 
smooth sloshing. 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
The effect of the geometrical shape of the sloshing of a 
two-dimensional tank has been carried out. Both the 
conventional and modified shapes were studied. The study 
shows that for the conventional shapes, the circular tank can 
significantly suppress sloshing motion. The elliptical tank can 
induce violent sloshing motion. The rectangular tank induces 
sloshing with the largest amplitude near resonance. For the 
modified shapes, both of the shapes in the present study can re-
duce sloshing significantly, compared to the retangular tank. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] LIU D. and LIN P. Three dimensional liquid sloshing in a 
tank with baffles. Ocean Eng., 2009,  36(2): 202-212. 
[2] CHO J.R., LEE H.W., and HA S.Y. Finite element analysis 
of resonant sloshing response in 2-D baffled tank. J. Sound 
Vib., 2005, 288: 829–845. 
[3] BISWAL, K.C., BHATTACHARYYA, S.K., and SINHA, 
P.K. Non-linear sloshing in partially liquid filled containers 
with baffles. Int. J. Numer. Meth. Engng., 2006, 68: 
317–337. 
[4] AKYILDIZA H. and ÜNAL E. Experimental investigation 
of pressure distribution on a rectangular tank due to the 
liquid sloshing. Ocean Eng., 2005, 32: 1503–1516. 
 
  (a) Rectangular.        (b) Circular.     (c) Elliptical (b/a = 0.9). 
(d) Elliptical (b/a = 0.8). (e) Elliptical (b/a = 0.7). (f) Elliptical (b/a = 0.6).
Fig. 5 Time-variation of the total pressure on the left wall. 
 6
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿 撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 無 
其他：已經在國際研討會中發表論文一篇。 
 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
1. 學術成就： 
  (a) 建立二維沖激流場數值模擬的平台，包括沖激波的捕捉、壁面總壓力的分布
與隨時間之變化計算、沖激瞬間衝擊力量的捕捉、以及渦漩分布的捕捉。 
  (b) 針對五種基本槽箱的形狀，進行二維沖激流場的數值模擬，並就上述各種物
理量進行比較，模擬的狀況分半滿與將近全滿兩種。 
  (c) 探索幾何形狀對沖激現象所造成之效應。 
2. 對於國家發展及其他應用方面之貢獻： 
  (a) 在我國學術研究上，建立沖激研究的基礎。 
  (b) 在液態貨的運輸上，可提供較佳槽箱形狀建言。 
  (c) 在產業應用上，儲備我國造船產業建造 LNG 高性能船舶之能量。 
 
餘篇，其他國家大約三十篇左右，共計有廿
個國家與地區的學者專家與會。不過，由於
日本國內的論文特別多，因此每個場次都有
不少日本學者專家或學生出場報告。從報告
中，可看出日本學者的英文發表能力有長足
的進步，英文應對能力也相當不錯。 
除了主席致詞之外，精神領袖 Nakayama
教授也有簡短的致詞。 
短短的開幕式之後，是接著兩場的大會
演講。首先登場的是 Dr. Jürgen Kompenhans
（來自 DLR's Institute of Aerodynamics and 
Flow Technology）主講，講題為 Quantitative 
visualization techniques for aerodynamics；接
下來是 T. Kobayashi （來自 Japan Automobile 
Research Institute）主講，講題為 Visualization 
in Automobile Engineering。兩篇大會演講的
內容都非常充實、精采。 
接下來的分場論文發表分四個場次進
行。每篇發表時間為十分鐘，討論時間為五
分鐘。老實說，一篇總共十五分鐘的論文發
表在國際研討會中算是較短的，在我參加過
的研討會很少有這麼短的發表時間；但我發
現每位發表者反而掌握時間，在短短的十分
鐘之內，把握論文的菁華，做最佳的報告，反而讓論文發表非常精采，再加上每個場次的主
持人善盡責任，在無人發問的情況下，都主動發問，炒熱討論時間，整體而言，這個研討會
可說非常成功，從頭到尾都沒有冷場。 
大會第一天晚上有 reception 晚餐，採自助餐形式，其中有日本鼓藝表演。 
第二天早上，一開始是兩場的 keynote speech，每場有兩個講員。場次一由成功大學苗君
易教授主講 Quantitative Investigations of Instantaneous Flow Behaviors，以及韓國 S.J. Lee 教授
主講 Quantitative Visualization of Various Biofluid Flow Phenomena Using X-Ray Micro-imaging 
Technique；場次二則由日本 K. Hishida 教授主講 Laser Based Quantitative Imaging for 
Micro/Nano-Scale Transport Phenomena，以及中國大陸 S.H. Chung 教授主講 Soot Formation 
Characteristics of Diffusion Flames Using Laser-Based Measurements。 
接下來則是四個場次的分場論文發表，流程與前一天類似。本人的論文發表排在當日下
午的時段。 
第三天的流程與第二天類似。早上一開始也是兩場的 keynote speech，每場有兩個講員。
場次一由俄羅斯學者主講 Interaction of Pulse Filamentary Discharge with Heterogeneous 
Media，以及中國學者主講 Visualization Studies on the Boundary Layer Bypass Transition and 
Control；場次二則由印度 E. Rathakrishnan 教授主講 An Innovative Tab for High-Speed Jet 
Control，以及日本 Y. Nakayama 教授主講 The Spirit of Jomon People Visualized Vortex before 
BC2500。接下來照樣是四個場次的分場論文發表，流程與前一天差不多。 
與大會主席、Nakayama 教授合影，並邀請參加年底
在基隆舉行的第十一屆 FLUCOME 研討會 
大會演講的投影片 
整個會議於晚宴後結束，但隔天有參
訪行程，惟因航班緣故，不克參加，六月
九日上午即搭高鐵回東京，從成田機場搭
機返台。 
 
二、與會心得 
本次研討會的安排，除學術性的意涵
之外，透過在地的飲食餐飲與各種文化性
的表演，具體而深刻地展現出日本特有的
文化風采。國際研討會的舉辦，除使與會
者有機會彼此交流、切磋最新的學術發展
之外，展現在地國的文化風采、使與會者
從中耳濡目染也是很有意義的。 
事實上，新潟並非觀光勝地，當地並
無特別或著名的景點可資參訪。因此與會
的多數學者專家大多在會場聆聽論文發
表，導致研討會到了最後一天，仍有許多
與會者在場，也算是一場盛會。 
本次研討會的論文報告中，有一些是
科技與人文研究的互動關係討論，相當有
意思。最先進的可視化科技也可應用在人
文科學領域之中，特別是人文領域的學者
專家在以科技為主軸的研討會中發表論
文，相當新鮮，也是我過去參加的研討會
中，未曾出現的現象。在科技性的學術研
討會中，有這類議題的討論，殊屬難得。 
本人此次參加研討會，也趁勢邀請一
些人來參加年底的 FLUCOME 國際研討
會，其中有幾位也將幫忙再拉一些論文，
算是額外的收穫。 
 
 
 
附錄：在本屆國際研討會中所發表的論文。 
黃國書博士發表論文獲獎後致詞 
新潟燕喜館書法 
  
11th Asian Symposium on Visualization, Niigata, Japan, 2011.                                                              2 
 
For small volume micro fluid flow measurements, the output power of pulse laser is indeed too 
high for µPIV experiments. With many different filters required, the µPIV system setup is complicate 
and operation is inconvenient; the contrast of images recorded is not good either. Replacing pulse laser 
with an appropriate light source so that filters are not required is an easy way to improve µPIV system. 
In several previous studies, LED has been used to replace pulse laser as the light source for PIV 
[2-4] or µPIV [5-7] measurements. Other applications involved LED illumination includes Schlieren 
flow visualization [8] or shadow graph of multi-phase flow measurements [9-12]. When compared to 
pulse laser, LED has many advantages, such as low cost, durable, small volume with light weight, and 
safe to human eyes. What’s more important is that the strobe frequency of a single LED can easily 
reach 10,000 Hz, which is high enough to resolve most micro fluid flows. Hence only a single LED is 
required in µPIV system; its operation is easy, setup and maintenance cost is low. 
 
3. System setup 
 
The setup of the proposed micro-PIV is simple and straight forward. Light emitted from LED is 
guided by fibre optics into microscope. A cardioid annular condenser is installed under an objective 
lens positioning platform, so that incoming light from LED is filtered and only light emitted from 
fluorescent particles will reach the objective lens, as shown in figure 2. Epi-fluorescent filter generally 
adopted in µPIV with laser illumination is not required. In addition, the resolution of microscope 
(diffraction limit) is improved from λ/2 (the Rayleigh Criterion) to λ/5, here λ is the wavelength of 
incident light. Dark background clear particle images are recorded from the proposed µPIV system. 
 
 
Fig. 2 (a) Light path in a cardioid annular condenser (b) Light emitted from fluorescent particles 
reaches the objective lens 
 
A block diagram of the system setup is shown in figure 3. A 5W, 460~475nm, blue LED is 
adopted as the light source. The frequency response of LED can easily reach 10,000Hz and provide at 
least a time resolution of 100μs between strobe, which is short enough to resolve most micro-fluid 
motions. Particle images are recorded by an IDT SharpVision 1300-DE CCD camera with double 
exposure mode capability. Synchronized trigger signals for CCD and LED are delivered from a 
LabView controlled DAQ card. Sequential particle images recorded are analyzed by the KONCERTO 
software. 
 
 
Fig. 3 Block diagram of the system setup 
 
Adjusting the piezoelectric objective lens positioning platform, particle images on different focal 
planes in the channel depth direction are recorded. Analyzing the defocusing distance and their 
corresponding energy distribution relationship, the measurement resolution in the vertical direction is 
(a) (b) 
  
11th Asian Symposium on Visualization, Niigata, Japan, 2011.                                                              4 
 
  
(a)                                    (b) 
Fig. 6 (a) Particle image of empty channel (b) Particle image of flow past circular cylinder 
  
(a)                                                                            (b) 
Fig. 7 (a) Velocity distribution of empty channel (b) Velocity distribution of flow past circular 
cylinder 
 
5. Measurement of hydrodynamic focusing flow 
 
The configuration of hydrodynamic focusing flow measured in this study is shown in figure 8. 
The sample flow in the centre and sheath flows from two sides are focused at the centre of the channel; 
such configuration is applied in many different applications, e.g. cell sorting, or production of micro-
capsules, etc. Sample fluid, containing 1μ m fluorescent particles, flowing at 4μ l/min is sheathed by 
flows at a rate of 4μ l/min each from both sides. Particle image and velocity distribution of the region 
marked in figure 8 is shown in figure 9. The hydrodynamic focusing effect generated from the sheath 
flows is successfully measured and clearly manifested in this figure. It is also found that instability 
caused by the merging of sample flow with two sheath flows occurred periodically. A totally different 
flow pattern measured is shown in figure 10. 
 
Fig. 8 Configuration of hydrodynamic focusing flow 
 
 
Fig. 9 Particle image and velocity distribution of hydrodynamic focusing flow 
100 m 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/06/20
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 沖激運動與減降研究
計畫主持人: 陳建宏
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-019-051- 學門領域: 造船工程
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
