Abstract
In recent years, advances in wireless communications networks such as 3G and 802.11 WLAN is making
the dream of fast, easy, and ubiquitous Internet access a reality. One of the advantages of 802.11 WLAN
over 3G is obviously its high data rate. Whereas 3G supports data rate up to 2Mbps, 802.11WLAN supports
data rate up to 54Mbps. Another important factor is that for some applications, 802.11 WLAN provides
a much more cost effective solution. One good example is VoIP. We strongly believe that the integration
of GSM digital wireless cellular phone system and 802.11 wireless IP phone system will be a mainstream
for the future development of cellular devices. We expect to see cellular devices having 802.11 and 3G
capability, being able to connect to the “best” network system in terms of the cost and bandwidth, and
being able to switch seamlessly from one to the other whenever possible. The purpose of this project is
thus to advance the state-of-the-art in mobile audio/video phone over wireless communications networks,
particularly 802.11 WLAN.
Key words: wireless communications network, 3G, 802.11, GSM, WLAN, cellular phone, IP phone, SIP,
ENUM, MPEG-4
ii
services of the layers underneath.
Given all the technologies and the deployment of Taiwan SIP/ENUM Trial Environment, one interesting
application we expect to see is multimedia streaming over wireless networks, often referred to as mobile
multimedia streaming, which allows multimedia contents to be accessed regardless of time and location.
MPEG-4 [15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21] seems to be the choice of multimedia streaming standard for wireless
devices. In offering a scalable and secure open standard for wireless and broadband networks, MPEG-4
will make mobile multimedia streaming to become a reality.
Another interesting application is VoIP. VoIP is a rapidly emerging technology for voice communication that
uses the IP-based networks to deploy VoIP-enabled devices in office and home environments. VoIP-enabled
devices such as desktops, notebooks, and PDAs decrease the cost of voice communication, enhance existing
features, and add new telephony services. VoIP using the IP-based networks also provides the opportunity
to improve the quality of video phone using the telephony network.
Device manufacturers and network operators develop many types of VoIP-enabled devices such as desktop
phones, PDAs, and cellular phones. End users can choose from a broad variety of form factors, feature sets,
and user interfaces. Except cellular phones and PDAs, one of the major problems with these VoIP-enabled
devices is obviously its portability. This may keep end users from using the services.
In line with the deployment of Taiwan SIP/ENUM Trial Environment, the purpose of this project is thus
to advance the state-of-the-art in mobile audio/video technology over wireless communications networks,
particularly 802.11 WLAN. Our focus will be on the development of SIP phone based on Linux and on the
feasibility study for using SIP to support multimedia streaming. Our long-term goal is much more than that
and is aimed at developing an SoC-based hardware/software platform that carries not only voice, but also
video with quality much superior than toady’s video phone, that combines the functionality of a cellular
phone and a VoIP-enabled phone, that allows end users to dynamically switch back and forth between the
802.11 WLAN and the GSM digital cellular phone network, and that is comparable in size to a cellular
phone.
Another goal of this project is to provide a robust and flexible operating system support for the development
of the hardware/software platform for the SIP phone based on Linux.
We strongly believe that tomorrow’s phones will be more than just phones. The integration of GSM digital
wireless cellular phone system and 802.11 wireless IP phone system will be a mainstream for the future
development of cellular devices. Third-generation mobile technology (3G) will have to work in harmony
with 802.11 WLAN technology rather than compete with it for how different wireless technologies can
fit together. 802.11 may be a threat to 3G in static locations, but there is no contest when mobility is
required. 3G mobile technology provides high mobility but limited bandwidth whereas WLAN provides
high bandwidth but limited mobility. We expect to see cellular devices having 802.11 and 3G capability,
being able to connect to the “best” network system in terms of the cost and bandwidth, and being able to
switch seamlessly from one to the other whenever possible.
We choose Linux because our long-term goal is to develop an SoC-based SIP phone that would support
not only Voice over IP, but also Video over IP. And in recent years, Linux [22] has been widely used as
an embedded operating system in the embedded system design. One reason is that Linux is not wedded to
just one CPU architecture. Another is that Linux is highly reliable, scalable, modular, and flexible, which
makes it well suited to the extreme diversity of embedded systems. Then, there is the fact that Linux is
2
• Modifying the Linux kernel, if necessary, to support the SIP phone, in particular the device
drivers to support encoding/decoding of voice.
• Fine tuning the performance of the client.
3 Results
As stated in the proposal of this project, except a one-semester course in Linux Device Drivers [25] and
a one-semester course in Advanced Network Programming covering UNIX Network Programming [26,
27, 28, 29, 30, 31], most of the students involved in this project have never had any experience on this
particular area. Although we didn’t get to the point of having a full implementation of the SIP phone, we
did end up with three Master’s theses, each of which is focused on a particular area and is required in the
implementation of the SIP phone except the third thesis to be described below.
• The first thesis is entitled “Advanced Linux Sound Architecture for Embedded Systems,” which is
focused on the porting of ALSA to the ARM920T-S3C2410 evaluation board, including both the
ALSA driver and the ALSA library. This can be considered as the foundation for the playback and
recording of the audio. We have also successfully ported a few applications that rely on ALSA to
perform their tasks, which include a PCM recorder, a PCM player, and a MP3 player, to show that
the foundation eventually works.
• The second thesis is entitled “Performance Evaluation of IPsec on Embedded Systems,” which is
focused on the performance evaluation of the IPsec on the ARM920T-S3C2410 evaluation board.
As far as this part of the project is concerned, we have successfully ported Openswan—an open
source implementation of IPsec for the Linux operating systems—to the ARM920T-S3C2410 eval-
uation board and used it to set up a Virtual Private Network (VPN) tunnel between a PC and the
abovementioned platform and to conduct a performance analysis based on various encryption and
authentication algorithms and services provided by the IPsec.
• The third thesis is entitled “H.264/AVC and Object-Based Coding,” which probably has nothing to
the audio. Instead, it is a trial project to see if object-based coding can be used to further reduce the
bit-rate for H.264/AVC based coding.
4 Conclusion
As we stated earlier, although we did not get to the point of a full implementation of the SIP phone, we did
end up with three Master’s theses. The first is focused on the ALSA driver and library, the foundation for
the playback and recording of the audio. The second is focused on the IPsec, particularly the performance
of IPsec on embedded systems. Though it has nothing to do with the audio, the thrid can be considered as
a trial project to see if object-based coding can be used to further reduce the bit-rate for H.264/AVC based
coding.
4
