method for the measurement of an accurate CRF for
the digital camera. The new approach use the same
idea that was proposed in [17] which directly find
the relation between the pixel value and the exposure
value point by point experimentally. However, a new
method based on the optical instrument to generate
known and adjustable brightness with wide dynamic
range pattern was proposed to successfully improve
the measurement results. The remainder of this pa-
per is organized as follows. Section 2 presents the
theory of polarization and equations for the computa-
tion of the exposure. The proposed method is tested
and verified in section 3 by experiments. In section
4, experiment results will be summarized that con-
firm the correctness and effectiveness of the proposed
method. Section 5 presents concluding remarks.
2 The theory of polarization
and computation of the expo-
sure
The purpose of this section is to develop the theory
which relates the light intensity out of the polariscope
to the exposure on the detector of the camera. This
theory will form the foundation for the modeling of
the camera response function (CRF). Furthermore,
the method for evaluating the quality of the mea-
surement of the CRF will also be introduced.
2.1 The light intensity out of the po-
lariscope
A plane polariscope is composed of two components,
one is named polarizer and the other is called ana-
lyzer, as shown in Fig. 1. Actually, the polarizer and
the analyzer have exactly the same physical proper-
ties, and the difference in its name is just to distin-
guish the different purpose that each of them serves.
The property of the polarizer (analyzer) is mainly
described by the principal transmittances Tt, Te and
extinction ratio ρp. The principal transmittance Tt
represents the maximum transmittance when a plane-
polarized light passing through the polarizer. It oc-
curs when the vibration plane of the electric vector of
an incident beam with plane-polarization is parallel
to the transmission axis of the polarizer. The princi-
pal transmittance Te represents the minimum trans-
mittance when a plane-polarized light pass through
the polarizer. It occurs when the vibration plane of
the electric vector of an incident beam with plane-
polarization is vertical to the transmission axis and
is parallel to the extinction axis of the polarizer. The
extinction ratio ρp is defined as
ρp =
Te
Tt
=
Imin
Imax
(1)
where Imin and Imax are the minimum and maxi-
mum light intensity when the light passing through
the polarizer respectively [19]. Given a polarizer, the
smaller the extinction ratio is the higher the polariza-
tion effect will be, which leads to a better polarized
light beam. For example, the parameters for the po-
larizer used in our later experiments are Tt = 0.637,
Te = 3.91 × 10−5, and ρp = 6.1 × 10−5 . The small
value of the extinction ratio ρp reveals that the po-
larizer we used is nearly perfect, and the light pass-
ing through the polarizer can be treated as a plane-
polarized beam.
Figure 1: A plane polariscope which is composed of
one polarizer and one analyzer.
When this plane-polarized beam passed through
the analyzer, the transmittance T (θ) will now be a
function of the angle θ which lies between the princi-
pal transmittances Tt, and Te. That is
T (θ) = (Tt − Te) cos2 θ + Te (2)
where θ is the angle between the transmission axis
of the polarizer and the analyzer, and we will call it
angle of the polariscope in the later discussion. If the
light before entering the analyzer has an intensity of
I0, then it will became I(θ) after passing through the
analyzer, where
I (θ) = I0
[
(Tt − Te) cos2 θ + Te
]
. (3)
The angle θ can be varied to precisely control the
light intensity on the output surface of the analyzer
based on Eq. (3). These controlled values of the light
intensity can then be used for the measurement of the
camera response function.
Page 2
3 Experiments and results
A white light and a Nikon D40 digital camera were
used throughout the experiments and the process and
the results obtained will be described below.
3.1 Detection and verification of the
light intensity controlled by the
polariscope
To investigate the properties of the polariscope used
in our experiments, the angle of the polariscope θ will
be gradually increased from 0◦ to 360◦ by a step of 2◦.
The transmission axis (P˜1) of the polarizer was fixed
at the direction of x-axis as shown in Fig. 1, and the
angle of the polariscope θ is the rotation angle of the
transmission axis (P˜2) of the analyzer with respect to
that of the polarizer. For each angle θ, the light came
out from the surface of the analyzer was recorded by
the photometer and the results were shown in Fig. 2.
There are two curves in the figure, one is formed by
the experimental data collected by the photometer,
and the other is a theoretical curve generated by Eq.
(3) using Tt = 0.637, and Te = 3.91 × 10−5. Ob-
viously, both of them vary periodically with respect
to the angle of the polariscope θ and the measured
data followed the theoretical value accordingly. This
experiment verified that the plane polariscope is close
to an ideal one, and it also proved that by varying the
angle of the polariscope θ, we can precisely control the
light intensity on the output surface of the analyzer
as described by Eq. (3).
Angle of the polariscope
N
o
rm
al
iz
ed
 
irr
ad
ia
n
ce
Figure 2: The irradiance measured by the photometer
for each angle.
3.2 Proposed method for the camera
response function
By gradually increasing the angle of the polariscope θ
from 0◦ to 90◦ with a step of 2◦, we obtained 46 differ-
ent values of radiance from the output surface of the
analyzer. We then acquired surface of the analyzer
with eight different exposure time for each angle θ to
obtain 368 images in total. On the basis of Eq. (5),
the values of the exposure generated on the detector
of the camera for these images were
Xij = sI (θi) tsj ∝
[
(Tt − Te) cos2 θi + Te
]
tsj (9)
where θi = (i− 1)× 90◦45 , i = 1˜46, and tsj (j = 1˜8)
are equal to 12000 ,
1
1000 ,
1
500 ,
1
250 ,
1
125 ,
1
60 ,
1
30 ,
1
15
sec. respectively. If we had the pixel value as y co-
ordinate and its corresponding normalized exposure
value as x coordinate, then we obtained the data dis-
tribution as shown in Fig. 3. In the experiment,
there were 368 measurements and the distribution of
these data formed the basic curve of the camera re-
sponse. By applying least-squared curve fitting to
these data, we can obtain a function which passed
through these points in an optimal way. The for-
mula that we used to model the camera response is
Z = f (X) =
n∑
k=0
akX
k, and the objective function
used in the curve fitting process is to minimize
ε =
46∑
i=1
8∑
j=1
(
n∑
k=0
akX
k
ij − Zij
)2
(10)
By applying the above curve fitting procedure, we can
find an optimal curve to fit the measurement points
and obtained the camera response function which has
been plotted to superpose the data as shown in Fig.
3. Apparently, the camera response function for the
Nikon D40 is nonlinear and it is more sensitive in the
darker region where the pixel values fall within [0,
100], and it becomes saturated when the pixel value
approaches 250.
Figure 3: The pixel value and normalized exposure
value.
Page 4
values. The whole range of the distribution (0− 255)
was divided into 32 regions each contains eight levels
of pixel value (Zi ≤ Z < Zi + 7). The rms errors
were then computed for the homogeneity-test in each
of the 32 regions respectively and the results (one
data point for one region) were shown in Fig. 7.
Figure 7: The rms errors defined for homogeneity-test
were computed in each given region for both methods.
4 Discussions
We can observe that for the pixel values of interme-
diate brightness (43 ≤ Z ≤ 203), the rms errors are
relatively low for both methods where the range of
the error for the DM method is [5.9% ∼ 12.5%] and
is [3.2% ∼ 6.3%] for the polariscope-based method.
While both of these two methods are quite correct, it
is obvious that a method based on the point-by-point
measurement using polariscope has lower error values
than those of the DM method.
When the pixel values are lower than 43 or higher
than 203, the corresponding rms error are apparently
higher. We think that when the pixel value is lower
than 43, the detector responds mostly to the ambi-
ent light and the noise generated inside the camera
instead of the irradiance of the scene. On the other
hand, when the pixel values are higher than 203, the
detector becomes saturated. These factors can re-
duce the sensitivity of the camera and contribute to
the reasons of the higher rms error.
Given the estimated CRF based on the proposed
method, we can find from the curve that the pixel
which has a value higher than 203 contains a wider
range of brightness compared with that of an inter-
mediate value. For example, the pixel value in the
range of [43, 203] has a corresponding relative expo-
sure value in the range of [0.019, 0.34] and the aver-
age relative exposure range (photographic quantity or
photoquantity/pixel [15] ) is 0.0019. In contrast, the
pixel value in the range of [203, 255] has a correspond-
ing relative exposure value in the range of [0.34, 1.0]
which leads to a photographic quantity value of 0.013.
Therefore, the photographic quantity value in the
bright region is about seven times in that of the in-
termediate bright region. Interestingly, the rms error
for the pixel value higher than 210 (bright region) is
about seven times of that at the intermediate bright
region. For example, the maximum error occurred
at pixel value 227 (23.5%) which is 7.4 times that of
the minimum error occurred at pixel value 67 (3.2%).
5 Conclusion
This paper has presented a new method for gener-
ating adjustable brightness to provide accurate radi-
ance for the CRF estimation. The results indicated
that the proposed method can obtain higher accu-
racy than that of the previous method based on the
homogeneity-test. On the basis of these results, we
suggest that the estimated CRF is accurate enough
for the digital camera to be used as an imaging pho-
tometer to measure the radiance radiated from an se-
lected object. The technique presented in this paper
may be useful for the applications that used a digital
camera for acquisition of radiance maps.
Acknowledgements
The authors wish to express their appreciation for the
financial support of the National Science Council of
Taiwan under grant number NSC99-2221-E-224-068.
References
[1] Y. Yu, P.E. Debevec, J. Malik, and T. Hawkins,
“Inverse Global Illumination: Recovering Re-
flectance Models of Real Scenes from Pho-
tographs,” Computer Graphics, Proc. SIG-
GRAPH, pp. 215-224, 1999.
[2] P.E. Debevec, “Rendering Synthetic Objects
into Real Scenes,” Computer Graphics, Proc.
SIGGRAPH, pp. 189-198, 1998.
[3] S. Marschner, S. Westin, E. Lafortune, and K.
Torrance, “Image-Based BRDF Measurement,”
Applied Optics, vol. 39, no. 16, 2000.
[4] Q.T. Luong, P. Fua, and Y. Leclerc, “The Ra-
diometry of Multiple Images,” IEEE Trans. Pat-
tern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, vol. 24,
no. 1, pp. 19-33, Jan. 2002.
Page 6
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/13
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以雷射繞射光學做相機反應曲線的測量
計畫主持人: 吳先晃
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-224-068- 學門領域: 自動化影像及視覺技術
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
研究成果將可以協助車燈產業在即時量測上的技術發展 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
