  
摘要 
 
本研究探討矽奈米晶體與光電高分子複合材料於軟性太陽電池之應
用，以改善軟性太陽電池效率與穩定度不足之問題。本年度研究之目
標包括：製備高結晶度且尺寸精準之矽奈米晶體、研究界面改質方法
使矽奈米晶體能有效分散並保持表面性質、以及開發可溶液成膜之多
晶矽薄膜以利製備軟性太陽電池。本年度研究成果包括：(1)成功製備
直徑小於 10 nm 之矽奈米晶體，並以 x-ray diffraction 與 electron 
diffraction 確定其為單晶;(2)利用 propionic acid (PA)進行矽奈米
晶體之表面改質，使矽奈米晶體可在溶劑中完全分散;(3)分析改質後
矽奈米晶體之 photoluminescence 現象，確認其 quantum confinement
效應;(4)以改質後之矽奈米晶體進行溶液成膜，達到品質良好之多晶
矽薄膜;(5)利用所製備之多晶矽薄膜製成二極體，發現其二極體具低
漏電流、低起始電壓、以及高導電率。在後續研究中，我們將從事下
列工作：(1)將矽奈米晶體與 p型高分子半導體如
poly(3-thiophene)(P3HT)等掺混，製備軟性太陽電池;(2)研究其他表
面改質方法，以更有效操控矽奈米晶體之表面性質;(3)將溶液成膜之
多晶矽薄膜製備成薄膜電晶體;(4)將矽奈米晶體與電致發光高分子掺
混，以製備發光二極體。 
 
  
  光電高分子與矽奈米晶體複合材料於軟性太陽電池之應用 
 
Liu Chih Min, Yun-Jun Lee, Feng Yu Tsai* 
National Taiwan University 
Department of Material Science and Engineering  
E-mail: ftsai@ntu.edu.tw  
Introduction  
Nano-structured silicon is a material of great interest 
during the past decade, owing to its attractive advantages 
such as efficient photoluminescence of visible lights and 
good compatibility with existing silicon technologies, and 
thus has many potential applications in optoelectronic and 
microelectronic devices. Among Si nanostructures, Si 
nanoparticles are particularly attractive because of their 
solution processibility to form Si films, which would offer 
low process cost and compatibility to organic electronics. 
    Many techniques are available for efficiently 
producing Si nanoparticles, including laser ablation of, 1 
thermal annealing of Si suboxides, and thermal 
decomposition of disilane and silane.2 However, forming 
homogeneous Si films from solutions of Si nanoparticles is 
still difficult due in large part to the tendency of the 
nanoparticles to aggregate into heterogeneous morphology.  
The tendency to aggregate can be significantly decreased 
by functionalizing the surface of Si nanoparticles with 
organic ligands,3,4 but no systematic study has been 
conducted to examine and optimize the film-forming 
property of such functionalized Si nanoparticles.  
This work studies the film-forming property of 
surface-functionalized Si nanoparticles, with the goal of 
producing uniform, homogeneous Si films by solution 
casting. We adopted a simple, low-cost route of preparing 
Si nanoparticles, which involved annealling Si suboxide 
nanoparticles into highly crystalline Si cores enclosed in 
SiO2 shells, followed by etching the SiO2 shells in acids 
to obtain H-terminated Si nanoparicles (H-Si nps).5 The 
H-Si nps were characterized in terms of size, size 
distribution, degree of aggregation and crystallinity, and 
were tested for their film-forming property. The H-Si nps 
were then functionalized by propionic acid (PA) into 
PA-Si nps to improve the dispersion of the nanoparticles 
in tetrahydrofuran (THF). The PA-Si nps were mixed 
with H-Si nps, and the mixture was casted into films. The 
films were incorporated into diodes (Al/PA-Si:H-Si/ITO) 
to characterize their electrical properties. 
  
Experiment  
The procedure of synthesizing H-Si nps was 
described as follows. First, SiOx (x < 2) nanopowder, 
supplied by DENKA Co., was annealed at 1000oC for 2 hr 
using a high-temperature resistance furnace under a 
vacuum of ~10-5 torr. After annealing, the powder was 
added to a mixture of methanol, HF (49%), and HNO3 
(65%) and sonicated for 5 min to etch the outer oxide layer, 
hence yielding H-terminated Si nanoparticles. The H-Si 
nps were collected by filtering the solution through a 
PVDF membrane(0.45μm). The filtered H-Si nps were 
washed with a mixture of D.I water and methanol, and then 
dried in vacuum at 100oC.  
The sizes of nanoparticles in solution before and 
after etching were measured by a PANalytical X’Pert PRO 
diffractometer operated at 45 kV and 40 mA. The H-Si nps 
were characterized by X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) and 
transmission electron microscope (TEM) (JEOL 
JEM-100CX 2 operated at 100 kV). To prepare the TEM 
samples, the H-Si nps were dispersed in THF and then 
dropped onto amorphous carbon-coated grid. 
PA-Si nps were synthesized by dispersing H-Si nps 
in a mixture of hydrofluoric acid (HF) and acrylic acid 
(volume ratio = 1/4) with ultra-sonication, and then 
exposing, the solution with a UV light (254nm) under 
constant stirring for 48 hr.6 The products were filtered 
  
Fig 4. The Si nps HF/acrylic acid solution (a) before UV exposure (b) 
after exposure. 
nano-Si films produced by pulsed laser ablation, 8 the 
conductance was slightly lower and turn-on voltage smaller 
with the H-Si/PA-Si films.    
 
Conclusion 
H-Si nps prepared by annealing and etching SiOx (x<2) 
nps were of high crystallinity and small size (<10 nm), but 
were prone to aggregate in solution, and thus could not be 
formed into continuous Si films. Functionalizing the H-Si 
nps into PA-Si nps significantly improved their dispersion 
in solution, allowing uniform, continuous films to be cast 
from blended solutions of PA-Si and H-Si nps, as 
confirmed by zetasizer, SEM, and AFM. Diodes with the 
H-Si/PA-Si films showed low leakage current with 
reasonably high conductance and low turn-on voltage, 
indicating good potential of the Si films for applications in 
optoelectronic and microelectronic devices such as thin 
film transistors (TFT) and solar cells. 
 
References 
1. E. Werwa, A. A. Seraphin, L. A. Chiu, C. Zhou, K. D. 
Kolenbrander , Appl. Phys. Lett., 64, 1821(1994). 
2. G. Ledoux, J. Gong, F. Huisken, Appl. Phys. Lett., 79, 
4028(2001). 
3. F. Hua, M. T. Swihart, E. Ruckenstein, Langmuir, 21, 
6054(2005). 
4. S. M. Liu, Y. Yang, S. Sato, K. Kimura, Chem. Mater., 
18, 637(2006). 
5. S. M. Liu, S. Sato, K. Kimura, Langmuir, 21, 
6324(2005). 
6. S. Sato, M. T. Swihart, Chem. Mater., 18, 4083(2006) 
7. Z. F. Li , E. Ruckenstein, Nano Letters., 4, 1463(2004). 
8. T. A. Burr, A. A. Seraphin, E. Werwa, K. D. 
Kolenbrander, Physical Rev. B., 56, 4820(1997). 
     
 
 
20 30 40 50 60 70 80
-500
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
4000
4500
5000
5500
In
te
ns
ity
2? /degrees
 (a)before etching
 (b)after etching
(a)
(b)
(111) (220) (311)
 
 
 
 
 a b 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
a b
Fig 1. XRD patterns of nanoparticles (a) before etching (b) after eching
Fig 3. The SEM image of the H-Si nps films. The inset photograph is 
OM image of the H-Si nps films observed at 450x. 
Fig 2. (a) Dark field image (b) Bright filed image of H-Si nps THF 
solutions. 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-002-201 
計畫名稱 光電高分子與矽奈米晶體複合材料於軟性太陽電池之應用 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
蔡豐羽  台灣大學材料系  助理教授 
會議時間地點 Nov. 26 – Nov. 30 2007; Boston, MA, USA 
會議名稱 MRS Fall Meeting 
發表論文題目 Photolithographic Patterning of Organic Light-Emitting Diode Displays Using an Electron-Injection-Enhancing Protecting Layer 
 
一、參加會議經過 
The electroluminescent (EL) material of an organic light-emitting diode (OLED) was 
patterned photolithographically under the protection of a thin (10 Å) atomic-layer-deposited 
(ALD) Al2O3 layer, and the resulted OLED device showed improved performance. ALD’s 
characteristic low defect density and high conformality enabled the thin Al2O3 layer to protect 
the EL material from solvents throughout the patterning process and to serve as an effective 
buffer layer. An IPA pretreatment of the MEH-PPV surface prevented damages caused by the 
ALD precursors during the ALD process. The device characteristics of the patterned OLEDs 
were further improved by increasing the conductivity of the PEDOT:PSS layer, likely as a 
result of increased hole accumulation at the EL-buffer interface that enhanced electron 
injection. Our method renders photolithography compatible with OLED fabrication, promising 
to resolve the issue of patterning that has in part impeded OLED’s commercialization. 
 
二、與會心得 
This meeting showcased the tremendous progress in the field of organic electronics 
including organic photovoltaics (OPV), organic thin-film transistors (OTFT), and organic 
light-emitting diodes (OLED). Interesting results related to my research topics include the 
following: 
1. Si nanoparticles have been used with poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) to fabricate 
bulk-heterojunction solar cells, achieving power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 1%. 
Although the PCE value is impressive, considering the novelty of this approach, it is 
still much lower than the norm for OPVs. This deficiency may be due to the poor 
quality of the bulk-heterojunction films and to the impure surface of the Si 
nanoparticles. In light of the issues exposed by these results, we are developing 
film-forming methods to achieve good quality of bulk-heterojunction films as well as 
developing surface modification techniques to achieve desired functionality of the 
surface of Si nanoparticles. 
