2前言:
BOLD MRI has been used to
investigate changes in cerebrovascular
hemodynamics induced by hypercapnia
challenges, such as carbon dioxide (CO2)
inhalation and breath holding (11–14). We
previously showed that T2*-weighted
gradient echo echo planar imaging (EPI)
technique can detect BOLD signal
increases induced by repeated short
breath-hold challenges in the brains of
normal adults (22). The results showed
that breath-hold regulated BOLD signal
significantly increases in gray matter but
not in white matter, with a mean maximal
increase of 1.18% for 10-second
breath-hold and 2.03% for 30-second
breath-hold. Furthermore, we conformed
that significant BOLD responses could be
detected in gray matter for a breath-hold
duration as short as 10 seconds, and the
fraction activation volume increased as
the breath-hold duration lengthened,
reaching a plateau at approximately 20
seconds (22).
In the present study, the approach has
been extended to assess the cerebral
hemodynamic response induced by
repeated breath-hold challenges in patients
with cerebral tumors and compare results
of low (1.5-T) and high (3-T) field
measurements. Histopathologically,
cerebral gliomas have increased cellularity,
microcystic changes, and increased
vascularity recruiting from adjacent brain
tissue, while high-grade gliomas have
additional abnormal vascular proliferation
or necrosis (23). Other cerebral tumors,
such as meningiomas, have dense
cellurarity and extensive vascularr
recruitment. Differential response to
hypercapnia stress between normal brain
tissues and tumor tissues, and
heterogeneity in the response to
hypercapnia stress among different types
of cerebral tumors are therefore expected.
研究目的:
In this study, dynamic susceptibility
contrast (DSC) perfusion MRI and BOLD
MRI were integrated with conventional
MRI to provide not only structural
information but also hemodynamic
parameters and their changes under
hypercapnia stress within a reasonable
examination time. The aims of the present
study were to assess the feasibility of
BOLD MRI during short periods of breath
holding in normal volunteers and in
patients with cerebral tumors; to
discriminate the cerebrovascular response
to hypercapnia stresses between brain
tumor and normal tissue; and to evaluate
the theoretical differential hemodynamic
changes under repeated short breath-hold
challenges among different tumors or
between low-grade and high-grade
gliomas.
文獻探討:
Clinical application of MRI greatly
improves detection, delineation, and
diagnosis of human brain tumors (1). In
addition to anatomical and structural
information, physiological parameters of
tumors can also be measured
non-invasively using modern MRI
techniques. For example, tumor
oxygenation and vascularity which are
important factors for tumor growth and
treatment can be investigated by BOLD
MRI and DSC perfusion MRI,
respectively. BOLD MRI utilizes
paramagnetic deoxyhemoglobin as an
endogenous contrast agent, which
shortens the apparent spin-spin T2*
relaxation time (2-4). During brain
activation, the relative change of cerebral
metabolic rate of oxygen is much less than
that of cerebral blood flow (CBF) (5, 6),
leading to a decrease of deoxyhemoglobin
-to-oxyhemoglobin ratio and an increase
of BOLD signal. Changes in T2* values
4hypercapnia stress within cerebral glioma
are expected.
Most cerebral hemodynamic studies
applied for tumor evaluation are
performed using nuclear medicine
techniques, such as single photon
emission computed tomography (SPECT)
and positron emission tomography (PET)
(24, 25). However, because both SPECT
and PET need radioactive tracers as the
imaging media and PET is relatively high
cost and limited in availability, routine
examination of cerebral perfusion using
these modalities are difficult. Due to its
short acquisition time, good resolution,
absence of ionized radiation, and easy
incorporation, DSC perfusion MRI
provides a non-invasive method to
investigate in vivo cerebral perfusion and
has been widely applied in the field of
cerebral stroke and brain tumors (26).
DSC perfusion MRI measures the
transient changes of local magnetic field
induced by rapid passage of paramagnetic
contrast medium through the capillary
network, in terms of deceases in T2 or
T2* signal intensity. Temporal changes of
T2 or T2* signal can then be analyzed to
determine CBF, cerebral blood volume
(CBV) and mean transit time (27). In vivo
cerebral perfusion parameters measured
by MRI disclose a wide range of
hemodynamic heterogeneity within and
around brain tumors (28). It has been
shown that CBV derived from DSC
perfusion MRI correlates with tumor
vascularity on histological/angiographic
examinations (29). Additionally, DSC
perfusion MRI shows that a glioblastoma
tends to have a high perfusion status than
a low-grade glioma (30).
Although evaluation of brain tumors
with DSC perfusion MRI has been
frequently reported, concomitant
evaluation of vascularity and oxygenation
of human brain tumors using DSC
perfusion MRI and BOLD MRI has not
been previously reported. In this study,
DSC perfusion MRI and BOLD MRI were
integrated with conventional MRI to
provide not only structural information
but also hemodynamic parameters and
their changes under hypercapnia stress
with a reasonable examination time. The
aims of the present study were to assess
the feasibility of BOLD MRI during short
periods of breath hold in patients with
cerebral tumors, to discriminate the
cerebrovascular response to hypercapnia
stresses between brain tumor and normal
tissue, and to evaluate the theoretical
differential hemodynamic response to
repeated short breath hold challenges
between low-grade and high-grade
gliomas.
研究方法 (1.5-T patient study):
For the 1.5-T study, a total of 8
patients (3 women, 5 men, 25 to 54 years
old) with cerebral gliomas were recruited.
Classification of cerebral gliomas was
determined according to the guidelines
provided by World Health Organization
(WHO) (31). The brain tumors included
five astrocytomas (four WHO grade II),
one oligoastrocytoma (WHO grade II),
one oligodendroglioma (WHO grade III)
and one anaplastic astrocytoma (WHO
grade III). Informed consent was obtained
from the patients after the nature of this
study was comprehensively explained.
All measurements were performed
using a standard circularly polarized head
coil on a 1.5-Tesla scanner (Magnetom
Vision, Siemens, Erlangen, Germany).
Cerebral BOLD MRI during short
breath-hold periods in normal subjects has
been previously reported by our group
(22). The breath-hold paradigm comprised
one preparation stage and five periodic
breath-hold cycles. During the preparation
stage, patients were asked to maintain
6whole brain. Imaging parameters were
TR/TE/flip angle = 3000ms/35ms/900,
matrix size = 64 x 64, and in-plane
resolution = 3.3 mm x 3.3 mm. Five
breath hold duration, from 5 to 30 s, were
experimented in five separate runs. Each
run included three breath holding cycles
and a total of 70 dynamic measurements
were obtained.
For each subjects, BOLD signal time
curves were drawn from several regions of
interest, i.e. cortical gray matter, deep
gray matter and white matter. To
quantitatively examine the BOLD
responses, a convolution model was used
to fit the measured time curves. Maximum
signal change, FWHM and onset time
(defined as the time to the first half
maximum) were determined from the
fitted curve of each breath holding
duration and compared with the
previously published results for 1.5-T (22).
To explore the number of voxels with
significant BOLD signal changes (p <
0.05, corrected), a correlation analysis was
applied using the smoothed signal time
curve from the deep gray matter ROI.
研究方法 (3-T patient study):
Six patients (2 women, 4 men, 26-68
year-old) with cerebral gliomas were
recruited. Classification of cerebral
gliomas was determined according to the
guidelines provided by World Health
Organization (WHO) (31). The brain
tumors included two astrocytomas (WHO
grade I), one oligodendroglioma (WHO
grade II) and three meningiomas.
Informed consent was obtained from the
patients after the nature of this study was
comprehensively explained.
All measurements were performed
using a standard circularly polarized head
coil on a 3-T GE Signa Excite scanner
(Milwaukee, WI, USA). Cerebral BOLD
MRI during 15- or 20-second breath-hold
periods was performed with similar
parameters and paradigm in 3-T control
study.
To explore the pixels showing
significant BOLD signal increases that
were regulated by breath holding, a
correlation analysis was applied
throughout the whole brain volume on a
pixel-by-pixel basis. An averaged
signal-time course of subcortical gray
matter from each patient, smoothed using
a Gaussian kernel was used as the
reference function. Pixels with significant
increases in the BOLD signal were then
determined using a correlation analysis at
a level of Z = 3.8 (P = 0.05) after a
conversion from correlation coefficients to
Z-scores. For further assessment of the
possible decreases in BOLD signal during
hypercapnia challenges, a negative
correlation analysis was also performed
using the same post-processing protocol.
DSC perfusion MRI during natural
breathing was performed using a
spin-echo EPI sequence: bolus injection.
Gadolinium-diethylenetriamine penta-
acetic acid (Gd-DTPA) (Magnevist,
Schering, Berlin, Germany) (0.2 mmol/kg
of body weight) and then saline (15 mL)
were administered at a rate of 4 mL/
second, No. of slice = 16, TR/TE = 1500
msec/70 msec, slice-thickness = 4 mm,
matrix = 128 x 128, in-plane resolution =
1.7 x 1.7 mm2, number of measurements =
60, temporal resolution = 1 second. The
relative cerebral blood volume (rCBV)
was then obtained by integrating the
corresponding concen- tration time curves.
Relative cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was
analyzed using a singular value
decomposition technique with adaptive
thresholds (27). Both rCBV and rCBF of
the gray matter were normalized to the
corresponding values of individual frontal
white matter for further analysis.
結果 (control study):
Fig.1 (a) to (f) show the 3-T BOLD
8Figure 5. Low-grade astrocytomas with hypoper-
fusion (a, b) or hyperperfusion (c, d)
Compared to the averaged signal
intensity of the natural breathing period,
the maximum BOLD signal increases in
patients’ gray mater were 1.76% - 0.12%
for the 15-second breath-hold paradigm
and 1.42% - 0.42% for the 20-second
paradigm. These findings were similar to
those obtained in the control group of our
previous study (P = 0.90) (1.67% - 0.42%
for the 15-second breath-hold paradigm
and 1.56% - 0.41% for the 20-second
paradigm). FWHM and onset time for
15-second and 20-second breath-hold
paradigms in the patients were
comparable with those found in control
subjects (Fig. 2). The number of activation
pixels with increased BOLD signal in the
hemicerebrum contralateral to the tumor
location was 13.52% - 3.23% for the
15-second breath-hold paradigm and
30.93% - 4.20% for the 20-second
paradigm. These findings agreed with
18.09% - 3.58% for the 15-second
breath-hold paradigm and 30.82% - 4.77%
for the 20-second paradigm in control
subjects (22).
There was absence of signal changes
in the tumor bulk and in the perifocal
edema, in contrast with the significant
BOLD signal increases in ipsilateral or
contralateral normal appearing gray matter
(Fig. 5). Occasionally, pixels with
increased BOLD signal could be found in
the peripheral regions of the tumor or
surrounding edema. According to
corresponding structural MRI, these pixels
always scattered along the gray matter
adjacent to or intermixed with the
pathologic process. This BOLD MRI
pattern was consistently identified in
tumors with reduced and elevated
perfusion and in all the low-grade and
high grade tumors (Fig 5).
There was no significant negative
correlation that could be disclosed in the
low-grade gliomas. Contrarily, small
clusters of pixels with breath-hold
regulated BOLD signal decreases were
identified in the high grade glioma during
repeated 15-second breath-hold periods
(Fig. 6).
Figure 6. Anaplastic oligodendroglioma
Fig. 7 shows that the FWHM (14.32
seconds), magnitude of maximum signal
changes (–1.20%), and onset time (12.70
seconds) of negative BOLD response
were comparable with those of positive
response in the tumor and normal tissue,
confirming that the reduced BOLD signal
observed in the high-grade glioma was
regulated by repeated breath-hold periods.
Figure 7. Anaplastic oligodendroglioma
10
rCBV BOLD (+) BOLD (-)
討論:
The major findings in these studies
included: (1) repeated breath-hold BOLD
MRI technique is feasible in patients with
cerebral tumors using either 1.5-T or 3-T
clinical scanners; (2) the 20-second
breath- hold protocol was recommended
for 1.5-T BOLD MRI, while the
15-second protocol is recommended for a
3-T study; (3) the maximal signal
increases of gray matter was higher in 3-T
than in 1.5-T breath- hold BOLD MRI; (4)
there was no breath-hold regulated BOLD
signal increase in gliomas or meningiomas;
(5) there was breath-hold regulated BOLD
signal decrease in 2 high-grade gliomas
and 1 mengioma in our patient group.
The onset times of BOLD signal
increases were delayed more than 10 s but
the FWHMs were consistent with the
corresponding breath hold duration at both
1.5-T and 3-T. Our results suggested the
BOLD imaging at 3-T was more sensitive
than 1.5-T for detecting the cerebro-
vacular reactivity induced by repeated
short breath holdings. A breath hold
duration of 15 second or above is
recommended for clinical use at 3-T,
which is an improvement from the
20-second breath holding for patients to
perform similar measurement at a 1.5-T
scanner.
Our results showed that there was no
significant difference in the maximum
BOLD signal increases, FWHM, onset
time, and fraction of activation volume in
the gray matter between patients and
controls. This means that the pattern of
BOLD signal changes regulated by
repeated short breath-hold challenges was
the same in patients with cerebral gliomas
and normal subjects. The present study
validated that BOLD MRI conducted on a
1.5-T or 3-T scanner could consistently
detect the cerebrovascular response to
hypercapnia stress induced by short
breath-hold in patients with cerebral
gliomas. This suggests that BOLD MRI
combined with breath-hold paradigms can
be included in the clinical neuroimaging
studies of brain tumors.
In the present breath-hold BOLD
MRI study, all the low- and high-grade
gliomas and meningiomas, being either
hypo- or hyperperfused, did not have
significant increases in the BOLD signal
during breath-hold periods. Low rCBV or
rCBF in a tumor may represent the
combination effects of low vascular
density, increased cellularity, or presence
of micronecrosis. Lack of BOLD signal
increases during breath holding in these
hypoperfusion areas most likely results
from reduced local hematocrit due to
decreased perfusion (32), or absence or
inadequacy of normal vasculature
responsible for vasodilatation in hyper-
cellular hypovascular regions.
Absence of breath-hold regulated
BOLD signal increases in hyperperfused
tumor regions is a more complicated
phenomenon. Regional elevation of rCBV
and rCBF in a tumor indicates increased
perfusion from abnormal neovascularity,
recruited normal vasculature, or both.
Vaso- dilatation secondary to hypercapnia
stress is not expected to occur in the
newly developed abnormal vasculature
because there is no normal vascular
architecture with smooth muscle by which
the effects of elevated arterial CO2 are
mediated (33).
In regions where there are coexisting
normal and abnormal vasculature,
12
參考文獻:
1. Just M, Thelen M. Tissue
characterization with T1, T2, and proton
density values: results in 160 patients with
brain tumors. Radiology 1988;169:779-
785.
2. Ogawa S, Tank DW, Menon RS, et al.
Intrinsic signal changes accompanying
sensory stimulation: functional brain
mapping using MRI. Proc Natl Acad Sci
USA 1992;89:5951-5955.
3. Kwong KK, Belliveau JW, Chesler DA,
et al. Dynamic magnetic resonance
imaging of human brain activity during
primary sensory stimulation. Proc Natl
Acad Sci USA 1992;89:5675-5679.
4. Bandettini PA, Wong EC, Hinks RS,
Tikofsky RS, Hyde JS. Time course EPI
of human brain function during task
activation. Magn Reson Med 1992;25:
390-397.
5. Fox PT, Raichle ME. Focal
physiological uncoupling of cerebral
blood flow and oxidative metabolism
during somatosensory stimulation in
human subjects. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA
1986;83:1140-1144.
6. Kim S-G, Rostrup E, Larsson HBW,
Ogawa S, Paulson OB. Determination of
relative CMRO2 from CBF and BOLD
changes: Significant increase of oxygen
consumption rate during visual
stimulation. Magn Reson Med 1999;41:
1152-1161.
7. Punwani S, Ordidge RJ, Cooper CE,
Amess P, Clemence M. MRI
measurements of cerebral deoxy-
hemoglobin concentration [dHb] --
correlation with near infrared
spectroscopy (NIRS). NMR Biomed
1998;11:281-289.
8. Kleinschmidt A, Steinmetz H, Sitzer M,
Merboldt KD, Frahm J. Magnetic
resonance imaging of regional cerebral
blood oxygenation changes under
acetazolamide in carotid occlusive disease.
Stroke 1995;26:106-110.
9. Griffiths JR, Taylor NJ, Howe FA, et al.
The response of human tumors to arbogen
breathing, monitored by gradient-recalled
echo magnetic resonance imaging. Int J
Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 1997;39:697-710.
10. Rijpkema M, Kaanders JHAM,
Joosten FBM, van der Kogel AJ,
Heerschap A. Effects of breathing a
hyperoxic hypercapnic gas mixture on
blood oxygenation and vascularity of
head-and-neck tumors as measured by
magnetic resonance imaging. Int J Radiat
Oncol Biol Phys 2002;53:1185-1191.
11. Rostrup E, Larsson HBW, Toft PB, et
al. Functional MRI of CO2 induced
increases in cerebral perfusion. NMR
Biomed 1994;7:29-34.
12. Kastrup A, Li TQ, Takahashi A,
Glover GH, Moseley ME. Functional
magnetic resonance imaging of regional
cerebral blood oxygenation changes
during breath holding. Stroke 1998;29:
2641-1645.
13. Kastrup A, Kruger G, Glover GH,
Neumann-Haefelin T, Moseley ME.
Regional variability of cerebral blood
oxygenation response to hypercapnia.
Neuroimage 1999;10:675-681.
14. Stehling MK, Schmitt F, Ladebeck R.
Echo-planar MR imaging of human brain
oxygenation changes. J Magn Reson
Imaging 1993;3:471-474.
15. Kontons HA, Raper AJ, Patterson JL.
Analysis of vasoactivity of local pH,
PCO2 and bicarbonate on cerebral vessels.
Stroke 1977;8:358-360.
16. Li TQ, Kastrup A, Takahashi AM,
Moseley ME. Functional MRI of human
brain during breath holding by BOLD and
FAIR techniques. Neuroimage 1999;9:
243-249.
17. Vaupel P, Kallinowski F, Okunieff P.
Blood flow, oxygen and nutrient supply,
and metabolic microenvironment of
human tumors: a review. Cancer Res
