 2
CRACK PROPAGATION ANALYSIS OF STATICALLY 
INDETERMINATE BEAM BY ELASTIC-PLASTIC FRACTURE 
MECHANICS  
Sung-Po Liu  Associate Professor 
Department of Mechanical Engineering Department of Mechanical Engineering  
Ching Yun Institute of Technology Tamkang University  
Jung-Li, Taiwan 32047, R.O.C. Tamsui, Taiwan 25137, R.O.C.  
ABSTRACT  
This paper develops an analytical model for the plastic collapse of a statically indeterminate 
rectangular beam containing a crack. Limit analysis, elastic-plastic fracture mechanics, 
compliance and J-integral concepts are used to study JIC and dJ/da that influence the crack 
propagation. The relations among the plastic hinge, applied load, linear displacement, rotational 
angle and crack growth leads to a better understanding of the problem as a consequence of this 
study. The conclusions are: (1) Unstable ductile fracture occurs at the crack propagates before 
plastic collapse or at dJ/da is smaller than the minimum critical value. (2) LBB 
(leak-before-break) characteristic of the statically indeterminate rectangular beam is valid if the 
crack propagates before plastic collapse.  
Keywords : Elastic-plastic fracture mechanics, Crack propagation resistance, Crack growth, 
Statically indeterminate beam. 
1. INTRODUCTION  
Most researches in past twenty years had dealt with forces, displacements, buckling, and torsion 
etc. in structural mechanics [1~3] in which the deformation analysis was considered as a boundary 
value problem. The principles of virtual work, energy, and limit analysis of plastic structures help for 
solving many other problems in structural engineering. The study of this field becomes exciting 
particularly since Van den Broeck [4] proposed the limit design theory. The limit design theory is 
valuable for framework structure. However, the conventional research of limit strength analysis has not 
been applied to the cracked system that means no consideration of fracture mechanics. This type of 
research is urgent especially for the statically indeterminate framework structure.  
This paper therefore proposed an innovative method to analyze and evaluate the loading status and 
plastic collapse behavior for statically indeterminate framework structures containing a crack. The 
present model and analysis deal with three reasons and considerations that must be noticed and solved.  
(1) The structure and support can generate some degree of deformation in machines and structures 
relating to energy conversion. These structures naturally become statically indeterminate framework. 
Evaluating the true safety margin and making a design based on the leak-before-break (LBB) 
phenomenon therefore necessitates understanding the mechanism of plastic behavior until collapse and 
the interactive influence of each member.  
 4
influence the moment-curvature relationship.   
(5) The propagation analysis of a cracked beam 
satisfies the following J-integral where the crack 
propagates according to J-R curve when J-integral 
reaches JIC. 
θ
)(
2 Md
awb
J ∫−=                  (3) 
 
 
 
The J-R curve is a straight line in which the 
crack blunting phase and the crack extension 
resistance dJ/da are neglected, as shown in 
Figure 2(b) and 2(c).  The rotational angle 
θ in a cracked beam can be computed by 
the increment of the bending compliance λ [7] 
under the bending moment M.  In order to 
simplify the calculation, we define a 
non-dimensional parameter λ’ which is equal 
to 3EIλ/L2.  The relationship between the 
rotational angle θD of the crack at middle 
point D and the statically indeterminate 
moment MD can then be written as: 
θD＝λ MD＝
EI
ML D
3
λ′              (4) 
3. ANALYSIS OF CRACK 
EXTENSION RESISTANCE 
    After the load increases and the crack 
gradually propagates, final fracture takes place by 
cleavage or ductility due to fatigue or stress 
corrosion, as the crack develops to a certain size.  
A cleavage fracture is usually linked with a small 
plastic deformation, called brittle fracture.  The 
growing of ductile crack contains stable and 
unstable ductile fracture.  The relationship 
between the displacement of structural element 
and the rigidity of load system in light of J-R 
curve of ductile fracture mechanics [8], that 
evaluate whether the fracture is stable or unstable 
extension. 
    The energy released upon crack growth is 
larger than the energy required for crack growth so 
that the crack will extend gradually even if the 
load does not increase.  The increasing of crack 
growth not only accelerates the fracture of 
structure, but also decreases the endurance of the 
loading capacity occurring in the unstable fracture.  
In this case, the increment of load Δq is smaller 
than zero.  For preventing the unstable ductile 
fracture, the value of dJ/da has to be greater than a 
smallest critical value.  In other words, the 
increment of load Δq must be greater than or 
equal to zero for avoiding the unstable ductile 
fracture.  For example, the forming of plastic 
hinge from cracked point D to point A (or B), the 
J-integral of crack propagation from Hutchinson 
and Paris [9] is stated as: 
da
aw
Jd
awb
M
dJ CP −−= -θ)(
2                
(5) 
The gradient of J-R curve with crack propagation 
is written as: 
 da
da
dJdJ mat=                         (6) 
 6
 
 
    Figure 5 shows the relation between load and 
displacement when the crack occurred at the 
middle point with different extension resistance 
dJ/da.  The line marked with  represents the △
minimum critical resistance dJ/da (12.761MN/m2).  
The load increment accompanying with crack 
propagation in this situation is very small.  When 
dJ/da equals 0.1MN/m2 that is smaller than the 
critical value, the load decreases at the beginning 
of crack propagation.  This phenomenon of 
load-drop represents unstable ductile fracture 
characteristic.  When dJ/da equals 50 MN/m2, 
which is larger than the critical value, the crack 
always grows stably.  On the other hand, the 
analysis of a crack at fixed end is indicated in 
Figure 6.  The sequence of plastic hinge 
formation and the critical value dJ/da 
(2.565MN/m2) are different from that in Figure 5.  
The other behaviors with crack growth are similar 
to the case for a crack at middle point, as given in 
Figure 5.  The analytical analysis shown in 
Figure 5 and 6 has the same tendency as the 
experimental results of Figure 3 in the reference 
[10].  Both indicates the crack propagation along 
circumferential direction as well as decreasing 
loading that occur the peak loading as through 
crack happening.  The unstable ductile fracture 
phenomenon and LBB characteristic appeared on 
Figure 5 and 6 are same as the experimental 
results of SI-1 and SI-2 curves, as shown on 
Figure 4(a) in the reference [11]. 
 
 
 
    For observing the singular behavior of a 
statically indeterminate beam, it is required to 
analyze a statically determinate beam with a crack 
under uniformly distributed load q.  Figure 7 
shows the diagram of load q and displacement δ of 
the middle point with a crack on a statically 
determinate beam.  The elastic-plastic fracture 
toughness value JIC in this paper is 150 and 300 
kN/m with different crack extension resistance 
dJ/da.  The decreasing rate of load becomes slow 
when dJ/da become smaller, as indicated in this 
diagram.  Moreover, the rate of loading always 
decreases as crack propagation so that LBB 
phenomenon does not appear.    Similarly, no 
LBB characteristic shown in Figure 7 is also the 
same as SD-1 and SD-2 curves in the Figure 4(a) 
of the reference [11]. 
 
