2Fig 1. Block diagram of a typical iris recognition system.
mainly concentrate on both the representation
of iris patterns and the matching process that
should be effective for improving the
recognition accuracy. Generally speaking, the
feature extraction approaches of iris recognition
can be roughly divided into four main
categories: phase-based approaches [1-5],
zero-crossing representation [6-8], texture
analysis [9-14], and intensity variation analysis
[15, 16]. Daugman's algorithm [1] adopted the
2D Gabor filters for feature extraction to
demodulate the iris phase information. Each
phase structure is quantized into one of four
quadrants in the complex plane. The Hamming
distance was further used to calculate the
distance between iris codes of 2048 bits. In the
past decade, Daugman had constantly modified
and improved his recognition algorithms. Based
on active contours, a recent paper [5] presented
alternative segmentation methods to transform
an off-angle iris image into a more frontal view.
Moreover, a description of newscore
normalization scheme was used for computing
the Hamming distance that would be accounted
for the total amount of unmasked data available
in the comparison. Note that the recent ANSI
standard of “Information Technology Iris Image
Interchange Format” [18] is based on the iris
recognition system developed by Daugman.
In this work, a texture-analysis-based iris
recognition method is described in detail.
Experimental results on the two large publicly
and freely available iris databases (CASIA and
ICE), including more than 200 classes, have
demonstrated that the proposed method is
highly feasible and effective for personal
identification. The novelty of this work
includes the following.
(1)To select a high quality iris image for
accurate recognition from an iris image
sequence, an effective scheme for image
quality assessment is proposed.
(2)An iris recognition scheme is presented by
an adopted local mean decomposition (LMD)
method as a low-pass filter for feature
extraction, which is a fully data-driven
method and does not use any predetermined
filter or wavelet function.
This work is organized as follows. Section
2 briefly summarizes related work. A detailed
description of the proposed method for iris
recognition is given in Sec. 3. Experimental
results are demonstrated and discussed in Sec. 4,
prior to conclusions in Sec. 5.
2. Proposed Method for Iris Recognition
In this work, an iris recognition algorithm is
presented, which includes four basic processes:
image quality assessment, preprocessing,
feature extraction, and matching. Figure 1
shows how the proposed algorithm works. The
solid boxes are the processed data at different
stages and the dashed boxes denote four
different processing steps, respectively.
Detailed descriptions of these four steps are
introduced in the following sections.
2.1 Image Quality Assessment
When capturing iris images, one usually obtains
a sequence of images rather than a single image.
However, not all of the iris images in the input
sequence are high quality and suitable for
recognition. After observing the unsuitable iris
images in [13], we found that the low quality
iris images can be roughly categorized into two
classes, namely, blurred images caused by
defocused or motion, and occluded images
severely affected by eyelids or eyelashes (an
example is shown in Fig. 2). In [18], we
proposed a method that evaluates the quality of
iris images automatically to discard the
unsuitable images. First, the texture
information of the iris regions adjoining the
pupil on the right and left sides ( 64 64 ) are
42.3 Feature Extraction
Despite all normalized iris templates having the
same size and uniform illumination, there
would be eyelashes and eyelids on the
templates, and those bring the performance
down on iris recognition. Therefore, the ROI is
selected to remove the influence of eyelashes
and eyelids, which is shown in Fig. 3(c). The
features are extracted only from the upper half
region (32 512 ) close to the pupil that can
provide the most discriminating information
[20]. These processes can eliminate most of the
interferences and produce more precise iris
templates for feature extraction.
2.3.1 Local Mean Decomposition
The local mean decomposition (LMD) was
developed recently by Smith [21] to decompose
amplitude and frequency modulated signals into
a small set of product functions, each of which
is the product of an envelope signal and a
frequency modulated signal from which a
time-varying instantaneous phase and
instantaneous frequency can be derived. The
instantaneous frequency is defined as being the
derivative of the phase of the analytic signal.
Most importantly, the results of the LMD
analysis are physically plausible; the
instantaneous frequency generally corresponds
to the oscillatory frequency we can actually see
in the signal. The LMD method can be used to
analyse any data, but is of particular relevance
with regard to the analysis of amplitude and
frequency modulated biological signals. Its
principle is to decompose adaptively a given
signal into components called product functions
(PFs), this decomposition continues until the
remaining signal contains no more oscillations.
This algorithm extracts locally for each mode
the highest frequency oscillations out of the
original signal.
The LMD of a signal is accomplished by
progressively smoothing the signal using
moving averaging. This averaging is weighted
by the distance between the successive extrema
of the signal in the following way.
Fig 4 (a) A sample portion of iris data is displayed as the
black line. The local mean values are shown by
straight blue lines computed from the two
successive extrema. The local mean function are
calculated by moving averaging and shown in red
lines. (b) Local magnitudes calculated from the
same portion of iris data. The local magnitudes are
smoothed in the same way and to the same degree
as the local means to form a smoothly varying local
magnitude function shown as the green line.
Consider the sample portion of iris signal
( )x t shown in figure 4(a), the process to find
the PFs is summarized as follows：
(1)The decomposition involves calculating the
mean of the maximum and minimum points
of each half-wave oscillation of the signal.
The thi mean value im of each two
successive extrema in and 1in  is given
by
1
2
i ii
n nm  (2)
These local means can be plotted as blue
straight lines extending between successive
extrema, as shown in figure 4(a).
(2)The local magnitude of each half-wave
oscillation is given by
1
2
i i
i
n n
a 

 (3)
The local means and magnitude are then
smoothed using moving averaging to form a
smoothly varying continuous local mean
function ( )m t (shown as the red line in
figure 4(a)) and envelop function
( )a t (shown in figure 4(b)).
(3)As described above, having obtained an
envelop estimate and a corresponding mean,
the mean is subtracted from the original data,
6(c) (d)
Fig 5. LMD decomposition results of two iris images
from two persons. (a) and (b) are two sets of feature
sequences with their original length, (c) and (d) show the
first 1024 components from the original features.
To associate with iris recognition, we also
present the results of LMD decomposition for
iris images, as shown in Fig. 5. Note that the
ROI of the normalized iris image is converted
into a 1-D feature sequence by concatenating its
rows. Figure 5 demonstrates the LMD results of
two iris images from two persons. Fig 5(c) and
5(d) present the corresponding LMD results for
the first 1024 components for Fig. 5(a) and 5(b),
respectively. To demonstrate the similarity of
two iris images from the same person captured
at different time, it is easily proved by checking
those corresponding circles marked in Fig. 5(c)
and 5(d). There are point out the differences of
two iris images from two persons.
2.4 Iris Matching
The main goal of iris recognition is to match
the unknown iris feature with those known iris
feature classes in the database and determine
whether the unknown feature comes from the
authentic one or the imposter. The matching
process is to be made with the unknown feature,
which will be calculated depending on different
metrics. In our experiment, the three different
similarity measures used as the matching
criterion are the mean of the Euclidean
distances (MED) measure, cosine similarity
measure and binary Hamming distance (HD)
measure.
Table 1 The high quality iris images of the two databases are selected by the different confidence intervals and the iris
recognition rates with three similarity measures
confidence intervalsIris database
90% 95% 99%
The number of High quality iris images 6454 6705 6998
MED 100 100 99.5
Cosine 100 99.5 99.1
CASIA
Correct recognition rate (%)
HD 100 99.3 98.6
The number of High quality iris images 2431 2564 2658
MED 100 100 100
Cosine 100 100 99.2
ICE
Correct recognition rate (%)
HD 100 100 99.5
8demonstrate that our method is much better
than the three methods of Huang et al. and
previous work, and can compete with the other
two approaches, Daugman[1] and Ma et al.[15].
Table 2 shows the computational costs
consumed by seven methods, including the
CPU time for feature extraction and matching.
Among the six methods, although our proposed
method spends more time than the method of
the 2-D Gabor filters for feature matching, it
accomplishes the lower computational costs for
feature extraction.
4. Conclusions
Biometrics-based personal identification
methods have recently gained more interest
with an increasing emphasis on security. We
describe an efficient method for personal
identification from an iris image sequence. The
two quality descriptors are defined to
discriminate high quality iris images from low
quality images due to blur and occlusion iris
images. According to the texture analysis of the
iris images, a new method of feature extraction
for iris recognition is presented, which operates
using the Local Mean Decomposition (LMD)
technique. The experimental results with two
publicly available iris image databases, CASIA
and ICE, illustrate the effectiveness of the
proposed method. The performance of iris
recognition achieved by the LMD approach
associated with three different similarity
measures is evaluated. The best similarity
metric is the MED measure, and the other two
measures also achieve similar performance of
more than 99%. Therefore, the proposed
method is promising for iris recognition, and
LMD is suitable for iris feature extraction. In
summary, our proposed method can achieve
encouraging performance in iris recognition.
Therefore, we propose a novel and efficient
method for personal identification with iris
images.
Publish
J. C. Lee, Y. Su, T. M. Tu, and C. P. Chang,
“A Novel Approach to Image Assessment in
Iris Recognition System,” Imaging Science
Journal, Vol. 58, No. 3, pp. 136-145, 2010.
References
[1] J. Daugman, “High confidence visual recognition of
persons by a test of statistical independence,” IEEE
Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell., Vol.15, No.11,
pp. 1148–1161, 1993.
[2]. J. Daugman, “Statistical richness of visual phase
information: update on recognizing persons by iris
patterns,” Int. J. Comput. Vis. Vol. 45, No. 1, pp.
25–38, 2001.
[3] J. Daugman, “How iris recognition works,” IEEE
Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol. Vol. 14, No. 1,
pp. 21–30, 2004.
[4]. J. Daugman, “Probing the uniqueness and
randomness of iriscodes: Results from 200 billioniris
pair comparisons,” Proc. IEEE, Vol. 94, No. 11, pp.
1927–1935, 2006.
[5] J. Daugman, “New methods in iris recognition,” IEEE
Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern., Part B: Cybern. Vol. 37,
No. 5, pp. 1167–1175, 2007.
[6] W. W. Boles and B. Boashash, “A human
identification technique using images of the iris and
wavelet transform,” IEEE Trans. Signal Process.
Vol. 46, No. 4, pp. 1185–1188, 1998.
[7] C. Sanchez-Avila and R. Sanchez-Reillo, “Iris-based
biometric recognition using dyadic wavelet
transform,” IEEE Aerosp. Electron. Syst. Mag. Vol.
17, No. 1, pp. 3–6, 2002.
[8] D. Monro, S. Rakshit, and D. Zhang, “DCT-based iris
recognition,” IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach.
Intell. Vol. 29, No. 4, pp. 586–595, 2007.
[9] R. Wildes, J. Asmuth, G. Green, S. Hsu, R.
Kolczynski, J. Matey, and S. McBride, “A
machine-vision system for iris recognition,”
Mach.Vision Appl. Vol. 9, No. 1, pp. 1–8, 1996.
[10] S. Lim, K. Lee, O. Byeon, and T. Kim, “Efficient
iris recognition through improvement of feature
vector and classifier,” ETRI J. Vol. 23, No. 2, pp
61–70, 2001.
[11] L. Ma, T. Tan, Y. Wang, and D. Zhang, “Personal
identification based on iris texture analysis,” IEEE
Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. Vol. 25, No. 12,
pp. 1519–1533, 2003.
[12] C. Tisse, L. Martin, L. Torres, and M. Robert,
“Person identification technique using human iris
recognition,” J. Syst. Res. Vol. 4, pp. 67–75, 2003.
[13] J. C. Lee, P. S. Huang, J. C. Chang, C. P. Chang,
and T. M. Tu, “Iris recognition using local texture
analysis,” Opt. Eng. Vol. 47, No. 6, pp.
067205-1–67205-10, 2008.
[14] C. P. Chang, J. C. Lee, Y.Su, P. S.Huang, and T. M.
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
