at interface and inside dielectric stack film, and so 
on. These all are deeply related to the reliability 
issues of electron devices. On the other hand, the 
analysis of the Capacitance Voltage characteristics 
is confusing, since plenty of physical phenomena are 
correlated each other. That is, some of phenomena 
will not dominate the Capacitance Voltage 
characteristics, but many phenomena will play central 
roles of the Capacitance Voltage characteristics at 
the same moment. Deep and precise basic knowledge and 
good experience are necessary to distinguish these 
physical phenomena for modeling the Capacitance 
Voltage characteristics that are affected by trap, 
interface, inconsistency of dielectric and electrode 
material, structure of gate stack, damage at 
interface and inside dielectric stack film, and so 
on.  
In order to reproduce the Capacitance Voltage 
characteristics obtained by experiments without any 
fitting parameter, plenty of physical models must be 
precisely implemented in just proportion and self-
consistently into the simulation package for 
calculating the Capacitance Voltage characteristics. 
It is not easy to develop such a package, as 
mentioned above, but we already proved that it is not 
impossible. We coded it very carefully from the 
scrutch, and then succeeded in remaking the 
simulation package for this purpose. By comparing the 
simulation result of this package with the measured 
data of the Capacitance Voltage characteristics, we 
can analyze which and what kind of physical phenomena 
is critical to and how they effects on the 
reliability issue that are considered. Here note that 
this is sensitive to the reliability issues of 
electron devices in commercial level. 
英文關鍵詞： Gate dielectrics,CV-characterisitcs,device 
characterization,trap,gate stack 
 
1 
 
 
Preface 
 MOS and MIS capacitor has been extensively studied in past several decades by 
many authors. It has been expected to reveal how basic physics relate electron device 
operation. In this structure, several physical phenomena co-work and then exhibit the 
electrical properties measured in Current-Voltage and Capacitance Voltage characteristics. 
On the other hand, the conventional models were established separately for the inversion 
layer (positive gate voltage), the depletion region (negative-low gate voltage), and the 
accumulation region (negative-high gate voltage). In addition, actual MOS/MIS samples 
have interfacial transition layer where physical properties are gradually changed from Si to 
oxide or other dielectric, the varying composition ratio of molecules and local traps owing 
to atomistic dangling bonds through dielectric layer. What will happen if we self-
consistently unify all the physical models that are separately developed? 
Background 
 Capacitance Voltage characteristics of gate dielectric is critical to the reliability of 
any electron devices, --- not only logic system devices (MOSFET) but also semiconductor 
memory devices (DRAM, SRAM, NAND, Emerging Memories, and so on). With the 
device scaling according to Moore’s rule, the precise analysis of the Capacitance Voltage 
characteristics is becoming important and indispensable for the development of electron 
devices in commercial level. Because, from the detailed study of the Capacitance Voltage 
characteristics of dielectric film that will be adopted in electron devices, we can obtain 
important knowledge about trap, interface, inconsistency of dielectric and electrode 
material, structure of gate stack, damage at interface and inside dielectric stack film, and so 
on. Nevertheless, it is hard to directly catch the trap, the inconsistency, the damage at the 
interface and inside the dielectric stack film in any experiments. On the other hand, these 
all are deeply related to the reliability issues of electron devices. This makes the analysis of 
the Capacitance Voltage characteristics difficult, because plenty of physical phenomena 
that cannot be directly caught by any experiments are correlated each other. Some of 
phenomena will not dominate the Capacitance Voltage characteristics, but many 
phenomena will play central roles of the Capacitance Voltage characteristics at the same 
moment. Deep and precise basic knowledge and good experience are necessary to 
distinguish these physical phenomena for modeling the Capacitance Voltage characteristics 
that are affected by trap, interface, inconsistency of dielectric and electrode material, 
structure of gate stack, damage at interface and inside dielectric stack film, and so on. 
3 
 
conduction band (quantum repulsion effect), in which case the DOS is increased by band-
bending (∆E) in a square-root form. A weak accumulation layer then appears near the poly-
Si surface when the gate voltage (VG) is negative2, 3. On the other hand, in a positive VG, 
gate depletion is also uncompleted because the Fermi level (ܧி ) is higher than the 
conduction band edge, which is called incomplete depletion2, 3. Since the widths of both the 
weak accumulation layer and the incomplete depletion layer are sensitive to ܧி
2, 3, the 
determination of ܧி  is important for accurate calculation of Capacitance Voltage 
characteristics. In order to determine	ܧி , we must solve a complicated problem since the 
band-gap narrowing (BGN), the incomplete ionization of impurities and ܧி  are mutually 
affected in the gate poly-Si. Nevertheless,	ܧி is excluded from the current density equation 
that formulates the basic equation in the conventional device simulation. We have then 
proposed a phenomenological method to self-consistently determine	ܧி , the incomplete 
ionization and the BGN in the Fermi-Dirac statistics2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Moreover, the IFT layers 
modulate these factors as follows:  
Penetrations of gate depletion and electron subbands: 
 Figure 1 shows schematically the penetrations of electrons in the incomplete depletion 
layer2, 5 from the poly-Si to the right IFT layer and of the electrons subbands from the 
silicon to the left IFT layer when VG is positive. It should be noted that the penetration of 
the subbands means the penetration of wavefunction but not of electrons since EF is lower 
than the subband bottom. Even if the subband bottom was lower than EF, the subband 
electrons could hardly penetrate to the IFT layer, since the IFT layer is narrower for an 
electron with lower energy level whereas the IFT layer is wider for an electron with higher 
energy level, as shown in Figure 2. Accordingly, we can neglect the penetration of the 
electron wave function to the oxide because no electron penetration occurs there, while 
considering the penetration of the incomplete depletion layer from the poly-Si to the right 
IFT layer.  
Penetrations of gate accumulation and hole subbands:  
                                                            
2 H. Watanabe, K. Uchida, and A. Kinoshita, “Quantum confinement effect of ultrathin-SOI on double-gate-
nMOSFETs”, Ext. abs. SSDM pp. 270-271 (2003).   
3 H. Watanabe, K. Nakajima, K. Matsuo, T. Saito, and T. Kobayashi, “Reduction of accumulation thickness in 
metal gate”, Ext. Abs. SSDM pp. 504-505 (2005). 
4 H. Watanabe and S. Takagi, “Effects of incomplete ionization of impurities in poly-Si gate and band gap 
narrowing on direct tunneling gate leakage current”, J. Appl. Phys., 90, 1600(2001). 
5 H. Watanabe, “Depletion layer of gate poly-Si”, Trans. Elec. Dev. 52, 3265 (2005). 
6 H. Watanabe, K. Matsuzawa, and S. Takagi, “Scaling effects on gate leakage current”, Trans. Elec. Dev. 50, 
1779 (2003). 
5 
 
Reference: 
1) S. Miyazaki, H. Nishimura, M. Fukuda, L. Leyb, and J. Risteinb, “Structure and electronic 
states of ultrathin SiO2 thermally grown on Si (100) and Si (111) surfaces”, Appl. Surf. Sci. 
113/114, 585.  
2) H. Watanabe, K. Uchida, and A. Kinoshita, “Quantum confinement effect of ultrathin-SOI 
on double-gate-nMOSFETs”, Ext. abs. SSDM pp. 270-271 (2003).  97). 
3) H. Watanabe, K. Nakajima, K. Matsuo, T. Saito, and T. Kobayashi, “Reduction of 
accumulation thickness in metal gate”, Ext. Abs. SSDM pp. 504-505 (2005). 
4) H. Watanabe and S. Takagi, “Effects of incomplete ionization of impurities in poly-Si gate 
and band gap narrowing on direct tunneling gate leakage current”, J. Appl. Phys., 90, 
1600(2001). 
5) H. Watanabe, “Depletion layer of gate poly-Si”, Trans. Elec. Dev. 52, 3265 (2005). 
6) H. Watanabe, K. Matsuzawa, and S. Takagi, “Scaling effects on gate leakage current”, Trans. 
Elec. Dev. 50, 1779 (2003). 
 
 
7 
 
 
Figure 2: Schemata showing that the IFT layer is narrower for electron at lower energy level since the IFT layer are 
wider for electron in higher energy level whereas it is narrower for electron in lower energy level 
 
 
9 
 
 
Figure 4: Comparison of Capacitance Voltage characteristics 
  
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                               日期： 101  年 9 月 18 日 
一、參加會議經過 
For 50 years, IRPS has been the premier conference for engineers and 
scientists to present new and original work in the area of 
microelectronics reliability. Drawing participants from the United 
計畫編
號 
NSC100－2221－E－009－020－ 
計畫名
稱 
金氧半元件閘極疊層之介電層物理與相關議題之研究(II) 
出國人
員姓名 渡邊浩志 
服務機
構及職
稱 
國立交通大學電機工程學系
（所） 
會議時
間 
101年 4月 15日
至 
101年 4月 19日 
會議地
點 
Anaheim, CA, USA 
會議名
稱 
(中文) 
(英文) IEEE International Reliability Physics Symposium 
發表論
文題目 
(中文)  
(英文) Trap-related Reliability Issues in NAND Flash Memory 
附件四 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
A Japan’s student presented his bachelor thesis in oral track. I was 
surprised and then contacted to his advisor. I made a good relationship 
with his Lab; which triggered this advisor to apply for a faculty 
position in Taiwan.  
 
四、建議 
I believe that students can be grown up so much by writing thesis. 
It would be preferable that Taiwan’s undergraduate students also apply 
a bachelor thesis to train themselves.  
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
CD of Monday Tutorial Presentations (April 16, 2012) and Sunday 
Tutorial Presentation (April 15, 2012) of IEEE IRPS 2012, Anaheim 
Proceeding of IEEE IRPS 2012, Anaheim 
 
六、其他 
I also played a role of Memory Subcommittee Member. I found that 
Samsung tries to suppress the leakage of the information about their 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/09/18
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 金氧半元件閘極疊層之介電層物理與相關議題之研究(II)
計畫主持人: 渡邊浩志
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-009-020- 學門領域: 固態電子
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
According to serial achievements on this work, PI is invited to give an 
invited Tutorial’’’’Trap-related Reliability Issues in NAND Flash 
Memory’’’’ in IEEE International Reliability Physics Symposium 
(IRPS) 2012, Anaheim, April 16, 2012. 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
