 2
中、英文摘要及關鍵詞(keywords)。 
 
z 中文摘要 
 
由網際網路工程工作特別小組(IETF)發展定義的 SIP 通訊協定（Session Initial 
Protocol）採用應用層的訊息控制信令；其主要功用為提供連線建立、修改、終止多媒體
會談連線的訊號管理。使用者藉由註冊程序告知系統其聯絡位址（contact address），透
過名稱對應關係的查詢與轉址功能，使得 SIP 可支援個人移動性（Personal Mobility）。
本篇報告首先討論並比較單一位址註冊(Single Registration)與多重位址註冊(Multiple 
Registration)之優缺點。另外當採用多重註冊位址服務(Multiple Registration)時，系
統會同時記錄多筆該用戶的網路位置，因此如何有效快速搜尋用戶實際位置以降低系統負
擔會是一大課題，傳統作法中：循序搜尋(Sequential Search)會有延遲過長的問題；而直
接平行搜尋(Pure Parallel Search)則非常浪費系統網路資源，因此，我們結合循序搜尋
及平行搜尋的優點，依據使用者的習慣動態搜尋使用者，這樣的作法可以更快速搜尋使用
者的真正位置。最後，實驗與數學分析都顯示此作法大幅改善過去方法的缺點。 
 
另外，我們也在 SIP 的環境架構下提出了四種個人移動性的管理機制，主要是以分群的
概念來分割使用者所註冊的聯絡位址，以進行兩階段的通話訊號遞送。目標是使系統減少
不必要的封包流量支出和訊息處理的時間，得以迅速的建立通話連線；除此之外，通話失
敗的數量和多重註冊的情況不會因此增加。換言之，本研究爲了在減少封包流量的花費上
和訊息處理時間上找到一個平衡點。 
 
 
 
關鍵詞: 網路電話，SIP 通訊協定，個人行動管理。 
 
 
 4
Contents 
 
Part I. An Efficient Scheme for Supporting Personal Mobility in SIP-based 
VoIP Services 
1 Introduction  .................................. ..................................................................5 
2 Single and Multiple Registration ...........................................................................8 
3. Pipelined Search Scheme ...................................................................................10 
4 Performance Analysis and Comparison .................................................................12 
5 Simulation Results ...............................................................................................20 
6 Conclusions and Future Work............. ..................................................................23 
 
Part II. Personal Mobility Management Strategies in SIP-based VoIP 
Environments 
1 Introduction  ....................................................................................................25 
2 Related Work ......................................................................................................26 
3. Personal Mobility Management Strategies.............................................................30 
4 Performance Evaluation ........................................................................................33 
5 Conclusions ..........................................................................................................42 
 6
that are similar to the email address form, for example, sip:TPwang@sip.pu.edu.tw or tel: 
TPwang@sip.pu.edu.tw. 
Redirect Servers receive requests and push routing information for requests back in responses to 
the client. Registrars are special User Agent Servers that handle “REGISTER” requests. SIP 
users/devices use “REGISTER” requests to dynamically register their current locations. After 
registration, the SIP user/device can be contacted even when they move. Typically, UAs will 
send a “REGISTER” message to a specific registrar server. If username in the “REGISTER” 
message is authorized, it can receive a final response (200 OK) and the registrar server can store 
user information to the location database, as shown in Fig. 1. 
 
Fig. 1. Registration Scenario 
Proxy Servers are elements that route requests to the user agent server and responses to the user 
agent client. A proxy server can operate in either a stateless proxy or a stateful proxy. A stateless 
proxy server just simply forwards incoming requests to another server or client, without dealing 
with any reliability. It forwards every request downstream to a single element determined by 
making a routing decision based on the request and simply forwards every response it receives 
upstream. In contrast, a stateful proxy maintains information (specifically, transaction state) about 
every received request and any responses produced by the request message that it sent. 
A stateful proxy can be a forking proxy [4] that can route request to multiple destinations. Using 
forking is useful when proxy servers do not know the exact final destination. Proxy servers can 
either try a set of destination in pure parallel search, sequential search or other hybrid algorithms. 
Practically, we can implement registrar, proxy, redirect server in the same machine, which is 
called “Call Server”. 
 8
devices and/or locations. In this paper, we focus on personal mobility instead of terminal mobility. 
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 introduces single and multiple 
registration schemes. In Section 3, we propose a pipeline scheme for efficiently searching user 
locations in multiple registration. Section 4 compares and analyzes the proposed scheme. Section 
5 presents our simulation results. Finally, we conclude the paper in Section 6. 
2   Single and Multiple Registration 
Terminal mobility can be supported by using re-INVITE messages [6]. However, when a user 
changes its device and location without registration, the VoIP system has no ways to determine 
the user location. Consequently, only re-INVITE messages are not sufficient for supporting 
personal mobility. In the following, we introduce two registration schemes for supporting 
personal mobility. 
In general, most of inter-communication platforms accept their user to register only place at the 
same time, for instance, MSN messenger and skype. This architecture is referred to as single 
registration (SR). The SR architecture does not support personal mobility inherently because the 
registration cannot be transparent to the user. In other word, it cannot address a single user 
location at different terminals using the same logical address. This way will be very inhumanity, 
because we cannot always ask users to sit in front of the computer or hand-carrying terminals. 
Meanwhile, the proxy server must accept to authorize shorter legal service time in order to 
alleviate the phenomenon that users have left the terminal. In RFC-3261, the value called Expire 
is defined to solve this problem. The default value could be 1,800 or 3,600 seconds.  
In order to solve the drawback, a good solution is let all terminals of the user can register into 
registrar server at the same time. This method is called multiple registration (MR). Fig. 3 
demonstrates an example of the contact information stored in the iptel SER’s registrar [9] for 
multiple registration. 
 
Husername
H 
HcontactH 
Hcseq
H 
0944021400 
sip:0944021400@140.128.19.178:50
60 
130
0944021410 
sip:0944021410@140.128.10.102:50
60 
9114
0944021405 sip:0944021405@140.128.10.167:50 2120
 10
KLchiu’s UA to TPwang’s UA at laboratory. Finally, other INVITEs will be cancelled using 
CANCEL method.  
We assume that MR scheme will maintain a list of possible locations and the corresponding 
q-values. On the other hand, only the current location will be stored in the database in SR 
scheme. Consequently, there are no ways to know the other possible locations/devices in SR 
scheme. That is, SR scheme needs user’s assistance to confirm the current using device.  
 
3   Pipelined Search Scheme 
In this section, we propose a pipelined search scheme for multiple registration. Pipelined search is 
a hybrid method which combines sequential search and pure parallel search. It can compromise 
call setup delay and search cost at the same time. This algorithm defines a “d” parameter value 
which is used to delay the time of issuing the next request according to network status and user’s 
behaviors. In most situations, dvalue ranges from several hundred millions to several seconds. 
And, we use q-value for priority. It is possible to generate the q-values by analyzing the user’s 
mobility behaviors. We also define “Group” for those sent together. Group members will have 
the same or similar q-value. The group concept is shown in Fig. 5. For simplicity, we assume that 
each group contains only one location (device) in this paper. 
 
 
Fig. 5. The group concept 
We can get a priority list by calculating q-values and regulating the size of dvalues to determine 
the way of search. In this paper, we generate the priority list according to the q-values. The higher 
q-value the location has, the higher priority the location obtains. That is, the location with the 
highest q-value will obtain the highest priority, and vice versa. When dvalue is large, pipelined 
search is similar to the sequential search. On the other hand, pipelined search is similar to pure 
parallel search when dvalue is small. 
 
 12
Time
KLchiu’s Home Forking Proxy TPwang’s office TPwang’s LAB TPwang’s Home
INVITE
INVITE
d
INVITE
d
200 OK
CANCAL
Answer
200 OK
RTP stream
180 Ringing
180 Ringing
ACK
180 Ringing
 
Fig. 7. Timing diagram for pipelined search 
 
 (1)
where N is the number of terminals. 
Consider the omitted provisional messages, the parallel search method will waste more resource 
of the network and search cost. In the piplelined search case, the phone call will be bulit as soon 
as possible beause of TPwang is in the LAB as shown in Fig. 7. So, forking proxy does not send 
the third “INVITE” to TPwang’s Home and can reduce the number of sent messages. Moreover, 
if the forking proxy chooses higher q-value to send the “INVITE” message first and delays a time 
period of d for the subsequent “INVITE” messages. The search cost will be significantly reduced. 
4   Performance Analysis and Comparison 
In this section, we first compare the performance comparison of single registration and multiple 
registration mechanisms, and then discuss the impact of locality on multiple registration with 
pipeline parallel search. 
44)( += NNf
 14
message, for instance, 7200 seconds or more. In the best case, registration is necessary only in the 
first access. Since registration is unusual in MR scheme, the cost of registration will tend to be 
ignorable in the long term.  
Sequential search, pure parallel search, and pipelined search can be used to search the user’s 
current location for multiple registration. Sequential search suffers from longer delay to wait for 
timeout on searching the possible user location. It is unsuitable for the caller without patience to 
wait the long delay. On the other hand, the pure parallel search will outperform others in terms of 
its short delay for call setup. Because all INVITE messages will be sent at the same time, this 
algorithm is suitable only for the user with locality in a small number of possible locations. 
Otherwise, many network resources will be waste. Note that the performance of pipelined search 
depends on the distribution of user mobility pattern.  
In the following, we derive the total cost for SR and MR schemes. In general, the total cost of a 
scheme is the sum of the paging/searching cost and the registration cost. The paging cost 
indicates the number of messages that a proxy spends for searching the user location. And, the 
registration cost is the messages sent to register the user location. Normally, every paging 
consists of eight incoming or out-coming messages that include INVITE, 100 trying, 180 ringing 
and 200 OK. Note that the provisional messages (100 trying and 180 ringing) are not the 
necessary messages and will be included in all schemes. With loss of generality, we omit the 
provisional messages for simplicity. On the other hand, the registration includes two messages 
that are “REGISTER” and “200 OK” as shown in Fig.1. 
Suppose that the call rate isλ and the mobility rate isμ for a SIP user. That is, a proxy server may 
perform λ times paging and receiveμ times registration in a time unit. We derive two equations 
for the total cost of single registration and multiple registration as follows. 
According to the above description, the total cost of single registration (Cost_S) is 
μλ *2*8_ +=SCost  (2)
As we mentioned above, the cost of registration will tend to be ignorable in the long term. 
Therefore, the total cost of multiple registration (Cost_M) is equal to the paging cost. From 
Equation (1), the total cost is 
λλ
λ
44
0]44[*_
+=
++=
N
NMCost
 (3)
In equation (3), we assume that “ACK” message will pass through the proxy server for stateful 
processing. 
 16
registration accepts only one terminal registering to the registrar at the same time. Consequently, 
its setup cost is always the same. The cost for call setup varies according to different CMR 
values. However, it is obvious that the costs for single and multiple registrations have only little 
difference when the user has only two terminals and CMR is close to 1. However, single 
registration must issues “REGISTER” request message as well. Therefore, its cost is much higher 
than that of multiple registration when CMR is small (close to 0.1). 
4.2   Impact of Locality on Pipeline Search 
After comparing MR with SR, we further discuss the impact of locality behavior on pipelined 
search in multiple registration based environment. Performance metrics include the mean delay 
for call setup and the mean number of message sent to setup a call. In addition, we consider two 
mobility patterns: uniform and locality distributions. Uniform distribution means the user appears 
uniformly in all possible locations. In contrast, locality distribution means that the user may 
appear in a few locations with higher probability.  
Prior to deriving the results, we list the used notation as follows. 
RT：Response time, i.e., the time that a call is ringing to the time that callee answer the call. 
d：dvalue 
pi：the probability that the user appear in the ith location. 
N：The number of terminals 
t：The time of successful setting up a call 
We first derive the mean delay time (t) for setting up a call. 
 Uniform distribution 
Since the user may appear uniformly in all possible locations, the probability of the user in each 
location is the same. Therefore, the mean delay for call setup is  
dNRTtE
N
ppp
pdiRTtE
n
N
i
i
*
2
1)(
1
*]*)1([)(
21
1
−+=∴
====
−+= ∑
=
KQ  
(4)
 Locality distribution 
Without loss of generality, we assume that the probability (pi) of the user in location i is twice the 
probability in location i+1 (pi+1) for all possible i in locality distribution. Note that C is a 
 18
Furthermore, delay variation in locality distribution is about 7sec. Whether 7 sec is sufficient 
small or not depends on user patience. In the proposed scheme, the delay time (dvalue) can be set 
according to the user patience. Without proper setting, pipeline approach may suffer from longer 
call setup delay than parallel approach. Fortunately, the proposed approach has provided a 
manner to derive the total delay time. In practical environment, the system providers are 
encouraged to select a proper delay from the analysis for their subscribers. With proper setting, 
the system provider is able to achieve low resource consuming and lead to an acceptable delay. 
 
Fig. 11 shows the impact of difference between d and RT on the delay time. For fair comparison, 
we fix RT and define a muliple value (M) as RT divided by d. In Fig. 11, M ranges from 0.5 to 
2.5 and N is equal to 10. Pure parallel search sends out all INVITE messages at the same time. 
Consequently, its delay is RT and independent from d. The result from this figure will approach 
to that of pure parallel search when M is more and more larger (i.e., RT is much more than d) and 
the delay time will be reduced. In any cases, the one with locality distribution outperforms the 
one with uniform distribution. 
 
Theoretically, the results with pipeline search will approach to that with parallel search when M 
is sufficient large. The reason that the results are still with a small gap to that of pure parallel 
search is because M is smaller than 2.5 present in Fig. 10. Because RT is a fixed value, M 
increases as d decreases. That is, larger M implies small d. Consequently, the total delay time will 
be reduced. In addition, pipeline search approaches to parallel search when d is sufficient small. 
That is, the lower bound of delay-time in pipelined search approaches to RT.  
 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
0.50 1.00 1.50 2.00 2.50
multiple value (M)
de
lay
 ti
me
 (s
ec
.)
uniform RT=1.5
locality RT=1.5
uniform RT=3
locality RT=3
uniform RT=4.5
locality RT=4.5
uniform RT=6
locality RT=6
 
 20
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
1 6 11
the number of group
the
 nu
mb
er 
of 
se
nt 
ms
g
uniform M=0.5
locality M=0.5
uniform M=1
locality M=1
uniform M=1.5
locality M=1.5
uniform M=2
locality M=2
pure parallel
 
Fig. 12. Impact of the number of group 
According to the above results, we observe that the one with locality distribution is very stable 
when N approaches to 10. It is strongly recommended that the system should provide multiple 
registration service for the users with locality behavior. In other hand, RT is very difficult to 
control in different network environment. Network manager can refer to our analysis (Equations 
4-7) and results (figures 11 and 12) to adjust the dvalue.  
 
5   Simulation Results 
For demonstration, we implement the proposed scheme in iptel SER 0.8.14 [9]. In the following 
subsection, we will show the simulation environment and results. 
5.1 Simulation Environment 
Due to the experimental difficulty for a large system, we perform a scenario of experiment as 
follows. We assume that the maximum number of possible user locations/terminals is 9 as shown 
in Fig. 13. In the simulation, UAC issues signaling by SIPp of SIP Stone[14] and one of the 
UAS’s will auto-answer the call according to the location distribution. For demonstration, we set 
the call rate to 6 seconds and delay the BYE messge for 3 seconds after the ACK message. On the 
 22
Call Setup Cost per Call
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
0 3 6 9
The Number of Group (N)
Tr
an
sm
iss
ion
 C
os
t (
n)
Pure Parallel Uniform Locality
 
Fig. 14. The cost for call setup 
 
Fig. 15 shows the impact of N on the delay for call setup. Pure parallel search scheme is with the 
lowest delay time because it will not delay any INVITE messages. However, in uniform location 
distribution, the delay for call setup is proportional to N with the pipelined search scheme. 
Fortunately, in locality distribution, the delay in pipelined search is only slightly higher than that 
in pure parallel search. That is, the proposed pipelined scheme can achieve low setup cost only in 
a small overhead of delay in locality distribution. The obtained experimental results are consistent 
with our analytical results. 
Call Setup Time per Call
0
4
8
12
16
20
3 6 9The Number of Group(N)
De
lay
 T
im
e(s
ec
.)
Pure Parallel Uniform Locality
 
Fig. 15. Delay for Call setup. 
 24
2. B. Vlaovic, Z. Brezocnik, “Packet based telephony”, EUROCON'2001, Trends in 
Communications, International Conference on., Vol. 1 , pp. 210 – 213,  vol.14-7, July 2001  
3. SIP Tutorial, at http://www.iptel.org/sip/ 
4. J. Rosenberg, H. Schulzrinne, G. Camarillo, A. Johnston, J. Peterson, R. Sparks, M. Handley, 
E. Schooler, “SIP: Session Initiation Protocol”, RFC 3261, June 2002 
5. K. Daniel Wong, Ashutosh Dutta, Jim Burns, Ravi Jain, Kenneth Young “A multilayered 
mobility management scheme for auto-configured wireless IP networks”, IEEE Wireless 
Communications, Vol. 10, pp.62-69, Oct. 2003 
6. H. Schulzrinne, E. Wedlund, “Application layer mobility using SIP”,Mobile Computing and 
Communications Review, Volume 4, Number 3 
7. E. Wedlund, H. Schulzrinne, “Mobility support using SIP”, 2ndACM/IEEE International 
Conference on Wireless and Mobile Multimedia, Seattle, Washington, Aug. 1999 
8. M. Handley, V. Jacobson “SDP: Session Description Protocol”, RFC2327, April 1998 
9. http://www.iptel.org/ 
10. Henry Sinnreich, Alan B. Johnston, “Internet Communications Using SIP”, John Wiley & 
Sons, Inc., New York, NY, USA  
11. Jin-Woo Jung, Hyun-Kook Kahng, Ranganathan Mudumbai, Doug Montgomery, 
“Performance Evaluation of Two Layered Mobility Management using Mobile IP and Session 
Initiation Protocol”, at http://w3.antd.nist.gov/pubs/sip-mip-jwjung-globecom 2003.pdf 
12. Peng Sun, Sam Y. Sung, Zhao Li, “Performance Evaluation and Analysis of Protocols for IP 
Mobility Support: A Quantitative Study”, http://www.iscs.nus.edu.sg/~ssung/publications 
/1011.pdf  
13. Tsan-Pin Wang and Chen-Lung Tsui, " Path Optimization under Delay Constraints in Mobile 
IP over MPLS Networks," IEICE Trans. on Communications, Vol.87, No.9, pp.2605-2612, 
Sep. 2004. 
14 http://sipp.sourceforge.net/doc/reference.html  
15. Tsan-Pin Wang and KauLin Chiu, "Supporting SIP Personal Mobility for VoIP Services," 
The 2005 IFIP International Conference on Embedded And Ubiquitous Computing (EUC-05), 
Japan, 6-9 Dec. 2005. 
 
 26
registration record in order to trace the user’s location. For locating session participants, SIP 
creates a network component called proxy server to which user agents can send registrations and 
invitations to sessions. Unlike global system of mobile communication (GSM), SIP-based VoIP 
systems allow user agents to make multiple registrations at different terminals. Furthermore, SIP 
transparently supports name mapping and redirection services, allowing the implementation of 
ISDN and intelligent network telephony subscriber services. These facilities enable personal 
mobility [1]. 
Personal mobility allows network operators to address a single user located at different 
terminals by the same logical address. It means users can maintain a single externally visible 
identifier regardless of their network location [3]. Both 1-to-n (one address, many potential 
terminals) and m-to-1 (many addressed reaching one terminal) mappings are possible. 
2. Related work 
2.1 Location Management of SIP 
2.1.1 Forking Proxy 
  As the previous part mentioned, one user must register his contact information to proxy server 
before making a phone call. Furthermore, one user can register one or more contact address at 
different terminals according to the personal mobility [4]. When the user makes multiple 
registrations, the proxy server should forward one single request to the user at different 
destinations. Therefore, the proxy server can be also called forking proxy [1]. As shown in Fig.1, 
the forking proxy forwards the user A’s requests to user B’s fixed phone, mobile phone and SIP 
soft phone individually. 
 28
Alice@140.128.10.95 Jason@140.128.10.101
qvalue=0.03 qvalue=0.02 qvalue=0.01
Jason@140.128.10.151Jason@140.128.10.170Proxy Server
INVITE
INVITE
INVITE
INVITE
100 Trying
Ringing
Ringing
Ringing
 
Fig.2.Request forwarding with qvalue 
2.1.3 User Mobility Pattern 
  Although SIP supports personal mobility and multiple registrations, growing registration 
records will be an important issue in the future. Like Personal Communication Service (PCS), 
SIP-based VoIP system should find a proper solution toward user location management. This 
issue includes how to maintain the location database, reduce additional signaling cost and 
enhance the performance of VoIP system. 
   The major difference between PCS and SIP-based VoIP system is the user’s registration 
record. PCS only allows user to register one number with one terminal. For example, GSM 
system uses IMSI (International Mobile Subscriber Identity) to identify the subscribers and their 
subscriptions within the GSM network [6]. This means PCS only allows single registration. On 
the other hand, SIP-based VoIP system allows user to make multiple registrations. Due to this 
reason, how to maintain user location database will become very important.  
As a result of previous reasons, user mobility pattern must be traced in order to reduce the 
additional signaling cost to locate the user. If the user’s mobility pattern can be learned by the 
SIP-based VoIP system, the performance of the system will be improved. Furthermore, how to 
make the fast call setup efficiently is also very important. If we know the user’s mobility pattern, 
we will locate the user’s location as soon as possible and achieve the fast call setup. 
 30
 
Fig.3. SER system architecture 
3. Personal Mobility Management Strategies 
3.1 User Location Management with Grouping Concept 
In location database, we separate the user’s registered contact addresses into two groups. One 
is active group, the other is standby group. In active group, the contact addresses have higher 
priority and high qvalue. On the other hand, in standby group, the contact addresses have lower 
priority and low qvalue. In implementation, we separate active group and standby group into two 
tables in the database to reduce the load of one single table. Then we focus on the registration 
procedure and request forwarding procedure. 
In registration procedure, When the user registers his contact address, check the registered 
contact addresses and see whether it exceeds the upper bound (the maximum number of contact 
addresses in active group is M) or not. If the contact addresses don’t exceed the upper bound, the 
new registered contact address will be put into active group. As the example shows in Fig.4 and 
Fig.5, we can see the maximum number of contact addresses in active group is two (M=2). If the 
contact addresses exceed the upper bound, we still put the new registered contact address into 
active group and choose one contact address from active group to standby group. As shown in 
Fig.4, we can easily understand the process.  
 32
When user sends REGSTER, INVITE message or responds 200 OK message, the qvalue of 
user’s contact address will be updated. There are three steps to achieve qvalue management. 
Step 1: First contact address belongs to the user: initial qvalue=0.01 
Step 2: If the user sends “REGISTER”, “INVITE”, “200 OK” request, the new qvalue of the 
contact address will be maximum qvalue (in active group) plus 0.01. 
qvalue = Maxqvalue+0.01                                      (1) 
Step 3: Reassign all of the qvalue belong to the user when qvalue is equal to “1”, qvalue=MAX 
(qvalue-average_qvalue+0.01, 0.01)                  (2) 
B. FIFO Strategy:  
In FIFO strategy, we use qvalue field to represent the time field after registration formation to 
record the arrival time. The replacement principle depends on the arrival time of each contact 
address. When user sends REGSTER message to the proxy server, the qvalue of user’s contact 
address will be updated. There are three steps to achieve qvalue management. 
Step 1: First contact address belongs to the user: initial qvalue=0.01 
Step 2: If the user sends REGISTER request, the qvalue of user’s contact address will be raised. 
qvalue = qvalue+0.01                                        (3) 
Step 3: When the contact addresses in active group are full, replace the contact address which has 
low qvalue from active group. 
C. LFU Strategy: 
  In LFU strategy, we use qvalue field to represent the frequency counter to record the accessed 
frequency of each contact address. When user sends INVITE message or responds 200 OK 
message, the qvalue of user’s contact address will be updated. There are four steps to achieve 
qvalue management. 
Step 1: First contact address belongs to the user: initial qvalue = 0. 
Step 2: If the user sends “INVITE”, “200 OK” request, the qvalue will be plus 0.01. (Note that 
 34
 
Locality Distribution: 
It supposes the probability that the user moves to each location is different. In other words, 
the time which user stays at some place may be much longer than that in the other places. 
 
4.2 Experimental Architecture 
In our experiment, we use the test software “SIPp” [16] to behave as UAC. We use it to send 
INVITE requests to different locations according to the location distribution. We arrange nine 
UAS’s to accept the INVITE request and the UAS adopts the VoIP software developed by Xten 
Company. As shown in Fig.6, the proxy server, UAC and UAS are in the same network 
segment to reduce the network jitter. 
     
Fig.6. Experimental Architecture 
4.2.1. Procedures 
We separate our experiment into three parts, each part is with uniform distribution and 
 36
media session. Furthermore, we have defined the parameter “Ra” in active group. In [15], the 
author points out that the parameter “Ra” in active group will affect the total traffic cost for 
setting up a media session. As a result, we can observe the total traffic cost in different strategies 
by adjusting the parameter “Ra”. 
4.3.2 Request Processing Time 
When proxy server receives the request from the user agent client, it will spend some time to 
store the user information and query the location database or respond to user agent client. We call 
this period as the request processing time. Proxy server must handle various signaling messages 
for registration, setting up and disconnecting a VoIP session. Request processing time at proxy 
server includes registration process and call forwarding process. 
In session setup process, proxy server will forward the user agent’s INVITE message to user 
agent server. During this process, proxy server will query the user location database to find out 
the contact address of user agent server and deliver the request to the user agent server. In other 
words, we call the proxy sever makes “call forwarding” process. As shown in Fig.7, the period 
(T4-T3) is measured during the session setup process in the experiment. 
 
 38
setup and call termination with uniform distribution (Ra=1/3). Besides, the total traffic costs of 
FIFO strategy and LFU strategy are very close. When the number of UAS is 3 and 6, the traffic 
cost of FIFO strategy and LFU Strategy is almost the same. 
Uniform Distribution (Ra=1/3)
0
10000
20000
30000
40000
50000
60000
0 3 6 9
Number of UAS
Nu
mb
er
 o
f 
re
ce
iv
ed
 m
es
sa
ge
s
Original
FIFO
LRU
LFU
LFU-Aging
 
Fig.10. Number of received messages with Uniform distribution (Ra=1/3) 
Uniform Distribution (Ra=2/3)
0
10000
20000
30000
40000
50000
60000
0 3 6 9
Number of UAS
Nu
mb
er
 o
f 
re
ce
iv
ed
 m
es
sa
ge
s
Original
FIFO
LRU
LFU
LFU-Aging
 
Fig.11. Number of received messages with Uniform distribution (Ra=2/3) 
As shown in Fig.11, the traffic costs of LRU and LFU-Aging are very close in uniform 
distribution (Ra=2/3). Furthermore, the trend of curve line is closer than Fig.10. 
 40
Locality Distribution (Ra=2/3)
0
10000
20000
30000
40000
50000
60000
0 3 6 9
Number of UAS
Nu
mb
er
 o
f 
re
ce
iv
ed
 m
es
sa
ge
s
Original
FIFO
LRU
LFU
LFU-Aging
 
Fig.13. Number of received messages with Locality distribution (Ra=2/3) 
To sum up, when the user’s mobility pattern is close to locality distribution, our strategies 
really spare a lot of traffic costs than the original method defined in SIP specification. 
Furthermore, when the ratio of registered contact addresses to contact addresses in active group 
(Ra) is small, our strategies will perform much better than the original method. That is, our 
strategies with small Ra will get the best performance in locality distribution. 
4.4.2 Request Processing Time 
As shown in Fig.15, our strategies spend less time to forward the call to UAS than the original 
method since our strategies divide the contact addresses into two groups.  
 42
Fig.15. User Waiting Time for Call Setup 
5. Conclusions 
SIP is an application layer protocol and is a signaling protocol for creating, modifying and 
terminating the multimedia sessions such as Internet telephony calls. In order to setup the session 
successfully, SIP proxy server must forward the signaling messages to all registered contact 
addresses. However, growing registration records will lower the performance of the proxy server. 
In order to solve the above problem, we propose four personal mobility management strategies 
in SIP-based VoIP environment. We separate the user’s registered contact addresses into two 
groups. It means proxy server may send the signaling to the destination set in two phases. If the 
contact address has been requested in the first phase, we can spare the traffic cost in the second 
phase. 
Obviously, our goal is to reduce the traffic cost and request processing time for setting up a 
media session. Furthermore, the number of miss calls and repeated registrations could not be 
raised. 
  The experimental results show that our strategies can reduce the traffic cost which proxy server 
has to spend for setting up the media session. Furthermore, our strategies also spend less time to 
set up the media session than the original method in SIP specification. 
Reference 
[1] J. Rosenberg et al., “SIP: Session Initiation Protocol,” RFC 3261, IETF, June 2002. 
[2] SIP Tutorial at http://www.iptel.org/sip/ 
[3] H. Schulzrinne, “Personal Mobility for Multimedia Services in the Internet,” in European 
Workshop on Interactive Distributed Multimedia Systems and Services (IDMS), March 1996. 
[4] H. Schulzrinne, E. Wedlund, “Application layer mobility using SIP,” Mobile Computing and 
Communications Review, Volume 4, Number 3, pp. 47-57, July 2000. 
[5] Henry Sinnreich, Alan B. Johnson, “Internet Communication Using SIP“, John Wiley & Sons, 
Inc, New York, NY, USA. 
