 
 
II
 
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 正在申請專利  █可技術移轉                                                                      日期：97 年 10 月 23 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：微型化微波積體電路之設計研究 
計畫主持人：陳志強 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E－035－002－ 學門領域：電磁 
技術/創作名稱 微波積體電路(MIC)之微型化縮裝設計 
發明人/創作人 陳志強 
中文：運用具有低損耗、高縮裝率、設計彈性等優異性能之 CCS 互補傳導
線帶，來設計縮裝微波積體電路—例如︰採用台積電 TSMC CMOS 0.18μm 
1P6M 製程，運用 CCS 傳輸線(TL)來縮裝設計微型化威爾京功率分配器
(WPD)。在電氣性能相當的條件下，運用此種近橫向電磁模 (Quasi-
TEM)TL 取代傳統微帶(MS)環形 TL，可縮小電路佔用面積達 96%。 
技術說明 
英文： This technique is to employ the complementary-conducting-strip (CCS)
structure with excellent performances of low loss, high area reduction factor 
(ARF), and flexible design, to design a miniaturized monolithic microwave
integrated circuit (MMIC)—for example, using TSMC CMOS 0.18μm 1P6M 
process, employing the CCS TL to design a miniaturized Wilkinson power 
divider (WPD). Under the condition of closing electric performances, with this 
CCS structure, the occupying area of this novel divider is approximately 96%
smaller than that of the conventional MS ring-shape Wilkinson power divider. 
可利用之產業 
及可開發之產品 
可應用於國防、無線通訊產業與太空科技的應用發展中，相關微波射頻產
品、電路模組元件之微型化設計。 
技術特點 
此CCS 波導結構係以Quasi-TEM型式來傳送能量，具有低損耗、高縮裝率
、設計彈性等優異性能—其特性阻抗之調整設計具有更多元自由度，其運
用皆無須調整製程之材料及垂直結構參數，可完全相容於各式成熟製程，
並可搭配其他縮裝技術，更進一步獲致更微型化、優質且低成本之各式微
波積體電路。 
推廣及運用的價值 
此 CCS 波導結構及相關微型化設計技術，在結合國內成熟之半導體積體電
路產能條件下，來執行後續無線通信系統晶片/RFIC 產品等研發，將可獲
致更小的產品電路模組、提高產量、降低成本，進而大幅增加產品競爭優
勢，將有助於國家半導體產業及無線通信產業之整合應用發展。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位研發成果推廣單位
（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
         3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
附件二 
 
 
2
adopted [4], but these designs are very dependent 
on the quality factor and self-resonant frequency 
of the inductors. Other approaches to reduce the 
size of WPDs include the use of three-
dimensional (3-D) technologies [5-6], series stub 
loading [7-8], active inductors [9], and multiple 
coupled microstrip line structure (MCMLS) [10].  
To deserve to be mentioned, the meandered 
thin-film microstrip (TFMS) structure plays a key 
role to miniaturize the WPD in MMICs [5-6]. 
However, the meandered TFMS has two 
drawbacks [11]. First of all, the line width W of 
the TFMS will become the single controlling 
parameter for varying the characteristic 
impedance Zc , once the process parameters, such 
as the substrate thickness (h) and the dielectric 
material, are decided. This makes a strict 
limitation over the use of a high-impedance line 
since the MS will become unrealistically narrow. 
Furthermore, many of demands, such as unequal 
power output, broad bandwidth and multiple 
sections designs, for WPD, mandate the TLs of 
wide-range characteristic impedance. 
Consequently, the design of the TFMS passive 
and hybrid circuits will become a challenging 
issue. Secondly, the meandering of the MS 
dramatically alters the propagation characteristics 
of the bound EH0 mode in phase constant β and 
characteristic impedance Zc. Such drastic changes 
in β and Zc are due to the result of coupling 
among the nearby TFMSs and the right-corner 
bends of the meandered lines. Thus, a larger ratio 
of the adjacent line spacing (lg) to the substrate 
height (h), typically greater than two or larger, is 
applied to avoid serious degradation in guiding 
characteristics. This, however, adversely affects 
the efforts for making miniaturized microwave 
circuits.  
In this paper, we will present a novel two-
dimensional (2D) transmission line (TL) that 
possess the properties of wider choice of 
characteristic impedance and flatter less sensitive 
propagation characteristics in a very compact area 
[11], called complementary-conducting-strip 
(CCS) with excellent performances of low loss, 
high area reduction factor (ARF), and flexible 
design [11-12], to realize the novel miniaturized 
wide-band WPD based on Taiwan Semiconductor 
Manufacturing Company (TSMC) 0.18μm one 
poly – six metals (1P6M) CMOS foundry 
technology. 
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. 
Section II describes the constitution of the CCS 
unit-cell and the CCS TL, the evaluation of ARF, 
and the topology of this novel CCS WPD. Section 
III briefly describes the design procedures of the 
CCS WPD; first, the dimensions of the CCS unit 
cell are properly chosen to provide the required 
electrical parameters of the CCS TL, such as a 
characteristic impedance of 70Ω and quarter 
guided wavelength, among others. Then, the CCS 
WPD, following the same design procedures, is 
elucidated; it is simulated and compared to the 
traditional MS WPD. Finally, the measurements 
and simulated results of the CCS WPD with I/O 
pads are presented to verify the applicability of 
the miniature design of wide-band WPD using the 
2D TLs. Section IV draws conclusions. 
 
II. TWO-DIMENSIONAL 
TRANSMISSION LINE: THE 
COMPLEMENTARY- 
CONDUCTING-STRIP (CCS) TL 
Recently, a novel synthetic 2-D TL—the so-
called complementary-conducting-strip (CCS) 
TL—was reported to be an effective means of 
miniaturizing microwave circuits [11]. The CCS 
TL has the following characteristics. It firstly 
provides wide design choices for making 
characteristic impedance of the TL without 
changing the process parameters and material 
constants. Second, the meandered CCS TL 
exhibits less bending and adjacent coupling 
effects, as indicated by the slower change in 
characteristic impedance against the width 
variation in the TL than conventional meandered 
microstrip (MS) used in the same fashion [11, Fig. 
5]. Therefore, a compact microwave circuit can be 
established using the meandered CCS TL, finally 
achieving miniaturization. 
 
A. The Constitution of CCS Unit-cell and CCS 
TL 
The CCS TL is made from a unit-cell, which 
has dimensions that are much smaller than the 
operating wavelength (λg). As shown in Fig. 1(a), 
a unit cell contains a mesh ground plane and a 
central patch with at least two series arms for cells 
in series and bent connection to the adjacent cells. 
The etched portion of the meshed ground plane 
complements to the central patch of the single 
 
 
4
To this end, an area reduction factor (ARF) of 
the particular case study can be expressed by 
 
.
))()(8(
11
2
1
2
TLCCS
MS
o
SWF
SWFP
A
AARF λ
π
−=−=     (4) 
 
where slow-wave factors (SWFs) of MS and CCS 
TL are respectively defined as SWFMS =λo/λg1, 
SWFCCS TL =λo/λg2, and λo is the guided 
wavelength in free-space at operating frequency fo. 
Eq. (4) shows a linear dependence of ARF against 
the periodicity P of the CCS TLs. The smaller the 
value of P will result in larger area reduction 
factor, which is a figure of merit to demonstrate 
the important area of CCS TLs in the process of 
designing compacted microwave circuits. Quick 
estimation by assuming that SWFMS = SWFCCS TL 
= 1.8, P = 15 μm, and f0 = 10.5 GHz, the ARF 
will be 97.6 %, very close to detailed analyses and 
experimental layout results to be discussed later. 
 
 
 
Figure 2.  Comparison of layout patterns of the 2-D guided 
structures of the CCS WPD prototype (inside pattern) and 
the traditional MS WPD (outside pattern). 
 
III. DESIGN, SIMULATION AND 
VERIFICATION OF THE CCS WPD 
Referring to Fig.2, the CCS MMIC is designed 
base on the TSMC 0.18μm 1P6M RF foundry 
technique and the relatively constructional and 
material parameters. On the bottom layer (as the 
mark “Ground” of Fig. 1) is the connected unit 
cell as shown by the crosshatched surface, which 
consists of the lower M2 layer of the 1P6M 
CMOS process. On the top surface of (as the 
mark “Signal” of Fig. 1) of the unit cell is 
patterned to make a 70- Ω  CCS TL for the 
particular application. Throughout this paper, the 
full-wave finite element method (such as full 
wave EM simulator: Ansoft HFSSTM etc.) is 
employed for obtaining the two-port scattering 
parameters of the CCS TL. Linking between the 
ABCD matrix and the scattering parameters (S-
parameters), one can obtain complex propagation 
constant γ and characteristic impedance Zc from 
the scattering parameters of CCS TL [11]. A  70-
Ω  CCS TL has been designed and applied to 
layout the novel miniaturized WPD, with the 
square unit cell of the periodicity P of 15μm, the 
square central patch of the width Wx (= Wy) of 5
μm, the connecting arm width S of 2μm, and 
the square hole grounding of the hole width Whx 
(= Why) of 5μm. The design procedure of the 
traditional MS case is the same as CCS case. 
Figure 3 presents simulated scattering parameters 
of the CCS and MS WPDs. It reveals that the 
return losses of |S11| and |S22| are smaller than -
12.3 dB and -15.6 dB, respectively; the isolation 
(|S23|) exceeds 11.3 dB, and the coupling loss 
|S21| is constrained within the range -4.62 ± 0.30 
dB in the frequency band from 6 GHz to 16 GHz, 
where |S11| = -18.5 dB, |S22| = -21.3 dB, |S23| = -
28.2 dB and |S21| = - 4.5 dB at 11 GHz for the 
CCS WPD. For comparison, for the traditional 
MS WPD, the return losses of the |S11| and |S22| 
are less than -12.1 dB and -22.4 dB, respectively, 
the isolation (|S23|) exceeds 11.6 dB and the 
coupling loss |S21| is constrained within the range 
-4.4 ± 0.33 dB in the same frequency band, where 
|S11| = -19.9 dB, |S22| = -27.5 dB, |S23| = -26.6 
dB and |S21| = - 4.2 dB at 11 GHz. The 
comparison indicates that the electrical 
performance of the CCS WPD is comparable with 
that of the traditional MS WPD, but the CCS 
WPD occupies a much smaller area than the MS 
WPD. Figure 4 presents a photograph of the CCS 
WPD. The chip size of the CCS WPD, including 
the input/output (I/O) pads, is 672.5μm by 645μm. 
The simulation and measurement results of the 
CCS WPD are shown in the Figure 5; it illustrates 
the wide-band responses and very closely 
performances in the frequency band of 8.7 GHz to 
17.4 GHz for the above results. The measured 
|S11| is better than -12.5 dB, |S22| at least -14.8 
dB, and the |S21| close to -5.43 dB in the 
interested band, 8.7 GHz - 17.4 GHz. Beside, the 
isolation between port 2 and port 3 is kept at least 
15 dB across the band.   
