 1
???? 
?????????????????????????????????PDA??
???????????????????????????????(Wireless Personal 
Area Network, WPAN)??????? 1.2 ??????????????????
(scatternet formation)???????????????????????????????
?WPAN???????????????????????????????? 
?????????????????????????????????????
???????????????????????????????????????
??????????(BlueRing)????????????????? Multi-Ring 
Scatternet???????????????????????????????????
(Piconet)??????????????? Bridge???? Piconet?Master????Master
???????????? Slave?????????????????????????
???????????????????????????????????????
??????? 
?????????????????????????????????????
???????????????????????????????????????
??????????????????(Throughput)??????? 
??????????????? 
Abstract 
Bluetooth is low-cost, low-power and short-range wireless communication technology, 
which operates in the global unlicensed 2.4GHz ISM band. It supports wireless connectivity 
among cell phones, PDAs, digital cameras, laptop computers, and printers etc. A larger-area 
Bluetooth network can be formed by interconnecting multiple piconets, called scatternet. How to 
form a high-performance scatternet is an important issue for Wireless Personal Area Network. 
However, the structure of scatternets is not defined in the Bluetooth specification v 1.2 and 
remains as an open issue. Recently many people have paid close attention to do a lot of relevant 
research about this issue. 
In this project, we propose new scatternet topology architecture for Bluetooth networks, 
called multi-ring scatternet. The scatternet formation and packet routing method are presented. 
The self-routing property of multi-ring scatternet makes its routing method efficient and low 
overhead. Comparing to the Bluetree scatternet, the proposed scatternet is more reliable and 
relieves the bottleneck at root nodes. As compared with the BlueRing scatternet, it reduces the 
network diameter and average routing path. Moreover, by the feature of multiple rings, packets 
can be transmitted on different rings simultaneously. The simulation results reveal that our 
multi-ring scatternet topology gains better performance by the three metrics of average routing 
path length, throughput and number of piconets. 
Based on the above results, we hope the project will support us to develop the distributed 
scatternet formation without the coordinator, topology maintenance protocols while Bluetooth 
devices join or leave the scatternet, and the probability model to evaluate the Bluetooth network 
topology. 
Keyword:Bluetooth, Piconet, Scatternet, Routing 
 3
path and the hopping propagation delay. 
In this project, a novel multi-ring scatternet topology is proposed in order to combine more 
advantages in it. First, it is self-routing with no routing tables required. Second, owing to its 
regular link property, the routing scheme is simple and efficient. Third, the network diameter and 
average routing path are much shorter than those in single ring scatternet. Fourth, it is more 
reliable and robust than the tree-based scatternet. 
The remainder of this report is organized as follows. Section II briefly describes the related 
work on Bluetooth scatternet formation and routing. Section III elaborates our multi-ring 
scatternet structure, its formation method and self-routing scheme. Section IV presents and 
analyzes the simulation results. Finally, we conclude this project in Section V. 
II. RELATED WORKS 
In this section, we review some previous work on scatternet formation and routing problem in 
Bluetooth networks. 
In [2], Zaruba et al. introduced “Bluetree” to construct a tree-based scatternet. The scatternet 
is generated from the root or constructed by merging several distributed trees together. In [3], Tan 
et al. proposed TSF scatternet formation protocol to construct a tree-based scatternet. The 
protocol is self-healing, allowing nodes to join or remove at any time. In [4], Sun et al. presented 
a method to embed b-tree scheme into a scatternet and enable the network to be self-routing. In 
the self-routing scheme, only small fix-sized information is required and no routing table is 
recorded at each node despite the size of the scatternet. Since the tree-based scatternet is 
bottleneck-prone at the root nodes, we proposed a new scatternet topology ─ Hierarchical Grown 
Bluetree (HGB) ─ in [5] to overcome the problem. HGB adds the nodes into Bluetree level by 
level so as to keep the Bluetree balanced and make the routing path shorter than the conventional 
Bluetree. Besides, HGB provides more alternative paths for routing by passing through the 
additional links between siblings, which also resolves the congestion problem at the root nodes. 
In [6], Salonidis et al. proposed a scatternet formation algorithm, called Bluetooth Topology 
Construction Protocol (BTCP). Their formation process contains two phases. At first, the node 
with smallest address is elected as the leader. The leader owns all other nodes’ addresses and 
clock information. In the second phase, the leader uses the information to decide and tell other 
nodes how to form a scatternet. In [7] and [8], Petrioli et al. proposed BlueMesh and BlueStar 
scatternets, respectively. The generated topologies are connected meshes [7] and star 
constellations [8], both of them have multiple paths between any pair of nodes to achieve 
fault-tolerance. There are three phases in their methods: neighbor discovery, isolated piconets 
formation, and piconets interconnection. In [9], the proposed Bluenet scheme tries to reduce as 
much bridge overhead as possible while maintaining a reasonable degree of connectivity in the 
network. 
In [10], Foo et al. proposed a scheme in which the nodes are connected one by one like a 
string to form a ring, called the BlueRing scatternet. Each node in the ring acts both the roles of 
master and slave. Although the ring scatternet has the advantages of added reliability, easy packet 
routing and low scatternet scheduling overheads as compared to the tree-based scatternet, it 
involves the drawbacks of longer network diameter, larger path latency, and more number of 
 5
associated with a binary code in which the two least significant bits are used to identify the 
master (piconet) in a ring and the rest bits (k bits for 2k rings) are used to indicate the ring number. 
The two least significant bits of each master are Gray coded (i.e., in the sequence of 00, 01, 11, 
and 10) counterclockwise. For the example of Figure 1, only one bit is required to record the ring 
number. Thus, the binary code for master node A will be 010 and that for node B is 100. 
B. Formation Method 
The network environment discussed in this project is assumed to be of single-hop, namely all 
devices are within radio vicinity of each other. In this environment, the mobility of nodes will not 
cause serious affection if all nodes move within their radio range. In general, the scatternet 
formation methods can be classified into coordinated or distributed [14]. In this project, a 
coordinated method is employed in building the multi-ring scatternet. 
There are two stages in our formation process. The objective of the first stage is to elect a 
coordinator to own the clock and address information of all nodes. And then, in the second stage, 
the coordinator decides how to form the scatternet and informs all nodes the roles they will play. 
In order to establish a link in Bluetooth networks, the devices must pass through the state 
transition of page/page scan and inquiry/inquiry scan states, called the link formation in Bluetooth. 
The asymmetric link formation method [14] is employed in the first stage in the sense that each 
device randomly chooses a probability p to enter inquiry state (in other words, the probability in 
inquiry-scan state is 1-p). In the first step of this stage, arbitrary pairs of devices connected by a 
link exchange the clock and address information to run for a winner according to the smaller 
address or a random choice in a tie. The winner gathers the whole information from the loser. In 
the second step, losers are blocked and winners reenter the link procedure to generate new 
winners. These two steps are repeated until the unique winner called coordinator is produced. In 
the second stage, the coordinator enumerates how many rings are sufficient for the existing 
devices according to formula (1) in the Table 1 and arranges the role of each node during the 
piconet construction and scatternet formation. The coordinator uses a table to keep the role of 
each node so as to maintain the multi-ring scatternet when nodes leave or enter the network. 
 
Table 1: The relation between number of nodes and number of rings (N: number of nodes, Nr: 
number of rings). 
 
8*Nr+4*(Nr-1) ≤  N ≤  (12Nr-4)+4*(Nr-2)*3+4*2*4   (1) 
where  Nr=2k  for  k=0,1,2,3… 
 
Let N be the number of nodes and Nr be the number of rings. According to the multi-ring 
structure, the number of rings is in power of 2. Thus Nr=2k for k=0,1,2,3…. Formula (1) 
demonstrates the lower bound and upper bound of node number for different number of rings. 
The term 8*Nr reflects that a ring consists of eight nodes (four master nodes and four intra-ring 
bridges). The term 4*(Nr-1) indicates that four inter-ring bridges are laid between two adjacent 
rings. The sum of these two terms is the least number of backbone members for multi-ring 
scatternet with Nr rings, which can also be expressed as (12Nr-4). In addition to the backbone 
 7
than the multi-ring due to the suffering of skewed tree in the worst case.  
 
 
Figure 2: The comparison of average routing path length. 
The comparison of throughput is shown in Figure 3. The curve of multi-ring goes down like a 
stair because the number of rings is in power of 2. It is found that our multi-ring scatternet always 
outperforms Bluetree but might become worse than BlueRing when the number of nodes gets 
more than 200. This is also because the ring number of multi-ring grows in the power of two. 
When the number of nodes gets larger, the number of rings will burst and the throughput is 
degraded.  
 
 
Figure 3: The comparison of throughput. 
The comparison of the number of piconets is shown in Figure 4. In this figure, we find that 
the multi-ring scatternet has the smallest number of piconets. This is because we control the 
growth of multi-ring level by level in the power of 2. The smaller number of piconets can reduce 
the interference in the limited frequency spectrum and accordingly improve the frequency 
utilization. In addition, the smaller number of piconets implies the smaller network diameter and 
the shorter routing path accordingly. 
 
