 2
 
Fig. 1 Block diagram of the proposed dorsal hand vein recognition system. 
 
including facial images, hand geometry, 
fingerprints, palm prints, retina, handwriting 
signature, and gait [1] have been proposed to 
improve the security of personal verification. 
Each of these systems has merits and demerits. 
In the case of fingerprints, direct contact of the 
finger with the fingerprint-image-extracting 
sensor causes degradation in performance, 
especially in factory construction sites where 
good-quality fingerprints are hard to obtain due 
to oil from the finger, moisture, dirt, etc. In the 
case of iris/retina scanners, users must place 
the eye close to the scanner, causing an 
uncomfortable feeling or privacy-infringing 
feeling. In the case of hand-shape recognizers, 
problems may arise with users who suffer from 
arthritis or rheumatism, so they are rarely used 
due to their poor performance. The method of 
dorsal hand vein recognition has been 
developed to resolve the problems stated above. 
Since it acquires a dorsal hand vein pattern 
image without direct contact with the dorsal 
hand or with the vein pattern-extracting sensor, 
there exists no contamination. Both user 
comfort and performance are improved, and 
stable operation is also expected. It appeared in 
1990s [2], and becomes popular from 2000 
because special advantages. For example, a 
vein pattern is the vast network of blood 
vessels underneath a person’s skin. Like 
fingerprints, though it has never been proven in 
a strict scientific sense, the shape of vascular 
patterns in the same part of the body is believed 
to be distinct from each other [1-3], and very 
stable over a long period of time. In addition, 
as the blood vessels are hidden underneath the 
skin and are mostly invisible to the human eye, 
vein patterns are much harder for intruders to 
copy compared to other biometric features. The 
properties of uniqueness, stability and strong 
immunity to forgery of the vein pattern make it 
a potentially good biometric which offers 
secure and reliable features for person identity 
verification. However, the unique is suspected 
by someone. Based on the investigation of 
FUJITSU Company [4], there are only six 
people with similar vein patterns in 1,000,000 
people. So it is a feasible biometric feature for 
small population. 
In this work, the eigenspace-based dorsal 
hand vein recognition method is described in 
detail. Experimental results on our own 
Near-Infrared (NIR) dorsal hand vein image 
database, including more than 200 classes, have 
demonstrated that the proposed method is 
highly feasible and effective for personal 
identification. A block diagram of the proposed 
approach is shown in Fig. 1. The solid boxes 
are the processed data at different stages and 
the dashed boxes denote four different 
processing steps, respectively. Firstly, the 
dorsal hand vein images are captured by a NIR 
camera as the input data. Then, a median filter 
is employed on the dorsal hand vein images to 
remove some noises and an Otsu’s method is 
applied to select a suitable threshold to segment 
the hand region. The two datum points are 
found automatically and a square region of 
interest (ROI) of vein pattern is obtained. Next, 
modified (2D)2LDA was proposed on the vein 
pattern to extract important discriminant 
features. Finally, the minimum distance 
classifier (MDC) is adopted to verify whether 
the template and testing samples are captured 
from the same person or not. 
After analyzing the related works in Sec. 2, 
we will briefly introduce the dorsal hand vein 
image collection device and process in Sec. 3. 
 4
texture energy is not strong enough for dorsal 
hand vein recognition. To overcome these 
problems, another type of methods, called 
holistic-based approaches, (i.e., PCA, LDA, 
2DPCA) is extracted from dorsal hand vein 
image for identity recognition in this paper. 
Holistic-based methods, which represent 
intrinsic attributions of an image, can be 
extracted based on various algebraic transforms 
and matrix decompositions.  
PCA [16, 17] and linear discriminant 
analysis (LDA) [18, 19] are two classical linear 
feature extraction and data representation 
technique widely used in the areas of pattern 
recognition and computer vision. In the two 
holistic-based methods, the 2D image matrices 
must be previously transformed into 1D image 
vectors column by column or row by row. 
However, concatenating 2D matrices into 1D 
vector often leads to a high-dimensional vector 
space, where it is difficult to evaluate the 
covariance matrix accurately due to its large 
size and the relatively small number of training 
samples. Furthermore, computing the 
eigenvectors of a large size covariance matrix 
is very time-consuming. To overcome those 
problems, in recent years, the two dimensional 
feature extraction methods, such as two 
dimensional PCA (2DPCA) [20] and two 
dimensional LDA (2DLDA) [21, 22] have been 
of wide concern. Their work is mainly focused 
on constructing the image covariance matrix 
directly using the original image matrices. In 
[23], 2DPCA and 2DLDA have been 
demonstrated to be efficient for many 
applications such as pattern recognition. In 
general, there has been a tendency to prefer 
2DLDA over 2DPCA because, as intuition 
would suggest, the former deals directly with 
discrimination between classes, whereas the 
latter deals with the data in its entirely for the 
principal components analysis without paying 
any particular attention to the underlying class 
structure. However, it is observed that working 
either on a 2DLDA [22] based approach along 
the row direction of images or on the 
alternative 2DLDA [24] based approach along 
the column direction of images would still 
require many coefficients for image 
representation. To alleviate this problem, the 
concept of two-directional two-dimensional 
linear discriminant analysis ((2D)2LDA) [24] 
has been proposed specifically for face 
recognition problem. They developed the 
two-directional 2DLDA by simultaneously 
considering the row and column direction of 
original images for face recognition.  
In this paper, a feature extraction method 
of dorsal hand vein recognition based on 
holistic-based approach is proposed. Motivated 
by the work [24], we present an analogous 
model, call modified (2D)2LDA, to improve 
the performance of (2D)2LDA method for 
dorsal hand vein recognition. The modified 
(2D)2LDA method has the three advantage of 
higher recognition rate, lesser memory 
requirements and better computing 
performance than the standard PCA /LDA 
/2D-PCA /2D-LDA /(2D)2PCA [25] 
/(2D)2LDA method and the same has been 
revealed through extensive experimentations 
conducted on dorsal hand vein database. The 
overall system is compact, reliable and robust 
and the image quality is more consistent and 
uniform. 
 
3. Vein images collection 
 
In visible light, the vein structure on the 
dorsal hand is not always easily discernible. 
The visibility of the vein structure varies 
significantly depending on such factors as age, 
levels of subcutaneous fat, ambient temperature 
and humidity, physical activity and hand 
position. In addition a multitude of other 
factors including surface features such as moles, 
warts, scars, pigmentation and hair can also 
effect upon the image acquisition. Up to now, 
there is no publicly available hand vein pattern 
database available to the research community 
[10]. In order to perform a preliminary analysis 
on the features of the dorsal hand vein pattern, 
we constructed our own NIR dorsal hand vein 
image database. In this work, a low-cost NIR 
charge-couple device (CCD) camera, 
traditionally used for surveillance, was 
employed for the non-contact image collection 
device. Though principally designed for use in 
visible light, CCD cameras are also sensitive to 
NIR wavelengths of the electromagnetic 
spectrum up to about 1100 nm. This is an 
actinic IR range, which covers the NIR 
 6
 
Fig. 4 The figures to demonstrate the effects of the ROI selected by the proposed method. (a) The original dorsal hand 
vein images. (b)The fist region is segmented by the Otsu’s method. (c) The vein border is extracted by the inner 
border tracing algorithm. (d) Two datum points 5p and 6p are selected. (e) The dorsal hand image is rotated an 
angle   which is between line 5 6p p  and the horizontal line. (f) A square region is located and denoted as the 
ROI. 
important steps leading to the analysis of 
processed image data. Its main goal is to divide 
an image into parts that have a strong 
correlation with objects or areas of the real 
world contained in the image. When a dorsal 
hand image is obtained, the hand background is 
first segmented from the image. Binarization is 
the case of segmenting the image into two 
levels; object (hand region) and background. 
For hand segmentation, Otsu’s thresholding are 
applied on the dorsal hand image to estimate 
the hand region as shown in Fig. 4(b). 
To increase the verification accuracy and 
reliability, the features of vein patterns 
extracted from the same region in different 
dorsal hand vein images are compared for 
verification. The region to be extracted is 
known as the ROI. For this reason, it is 
important to fix the ROI to be in the same 
position in different dorsal hand vein images to 
ensure the stability of the principal extracted 
vein features. It also has significant influence 
on the accuracy of verification. Although we 
have designed a handle for constraining the 
position of participant’s hand; it is difficult to 
reduce a few degrees of rotation at the same 
position in different dorsal hand vein images. 
In this paper, we have employed the two datum 
points ( 5p and 6p  as shown in Fig. 4(d)) which 
determine the approximate (not absolute) 
immovable ROI. Thus, the displacement of the 
ROI in dorsal hand vein images is reduced to 
an acceptable range. The procedures of 
determining the two datum points are stated as 
follows: 
(1) Use the Inner Border Tracing Algorithm 
[27] to find the contour of the dorsal hand 
region. 
(2) The center of gravity (COG) of the binary 
image (Fig. 4(b)) is then calculated. 
(3) Based on the COG, the dorsal hand region 
is separated into two parts: above COG and 
below COG. 
(4) The points 1p  and 2p  are chosen from 
the leftmost and the rightmost contour of 
dorsal hand, respectively, above COG. Next, 
the space between 1p  and 2p , projected 
on the x-coordinate, are equally divided 
into four sub-regions (as shown in Fig. 
4(c)). 
(5) Find the dorsal hand contours both 
from 1p to 3p  for the first sub-region and 
from 4p to 2p  for the fourth sub-region. 
 8
from a set of training images, and then project 
an m n  image A onto X , yielding m by d 
matrix Y AX . Suppose that there are N 
training image samples in total, the jth  
training image is denoted by an m n  matrix 
jA  ( 1, 2,...,j N ), which contain C classes, 
and the ith class iC  has in  samples 
1
( )C ii n N  . 2DLDA attempts to seek a set 
of optimal discriminating vectors to form a 
transform  1 2, ,...,d dX x x x  by maximizing 
the 2D Fisher criterion denoted as 
( )
T
b
T
w
X G XJ X
X G X
             (2) 
In Eq. (2), T denotes matrix transpose, bG  
and wG , respectively, are between-class and 
within-class scatter matrices: 
1
1 ( ) ( )
C
T
b i i i
i
G n A A A A
N 
   ,    (3) 
1
1 ( ) ( )
i
C
T
w j i j i
i j C
G A A A A
N  
   ,    (4) 
,iA A  denote the means of ith class and the 
whole training set, respectively. jA  is the jth 
image in the class iC . The goal of 2DLDA 
scheme is to find the optimal discriminating 
vectors optX  in order to maximize ( )J X . 
Obviously, the optimal discrimination vectors 
optX  are the eigenvector corresponding to the 
dominant eigenvalues of eigenstructure 1w bG G
 . 
It has been proved that the optimal value for 
the discriminating vectors optX  is composed 
of the orthonormal eigenvectors 1 2, ,..., dx x x  
of 1w bG G
  corresponding to the d largest 
eigenvalues. Now, given an image m nA  , all 
the projections of the image matrix in the 
d-directions make up m d dimensional vector, 
which is the 2DLDA feature vector. 
Similarly, the alternative 2DLDA [24] 
learns optimal projection matrix Z reflecting 
information between columns of images and 
then projects A onto Z, yielding a q by n matrix 
TB Z A . The optimal projection in the column 
direction 1 2( , ,..., )opt qZ z z z  is obtained by 
the transposed space matrix. The (2D)2LDA 
treats the feature matrix jA  both in row and 
column directions by projecting the m by n 
image jA  onto optZ  and optX  
simultaneously, yielding a q by d matrix S 
.Tj opt j optS Z A X             (5) 
Here, the resulting feature matrix jS  is used 
to represent image jA  for classification. 
4.2.2 Proposed modified (2D)2LDA 
(2D)2LDA works simultaneously in the 
row and column direction of original images. 
Although it is efficient for image representation 
and recognition, it can still improve the 
recognition rate and reduce computation time 
by modified (2D)2LDA. In (2D)2LDA, the 
optimal projection matrix Z (described in Sec. 
4.2.1), which works in the column direction 
capturing information between columns of 
images. Opposite to modified (2D)2LDA, 
which works in the column direction of images 
in the low-dimensional 2DLDA subspace, can 
increase the recognition rate and reduce the 
coefficients of feature matrix. The idea of 
modified (2D)2LDA is described as follows: 
(1)The first one is performing  2DLDA  in 
row direction (described in Sec. 4.2.1) and 
reflecting the information between row of 
images to find the optimal image matrices 
Y AX .(2)The second is performing 2DLDA 
which works in the column direction of image 
matrices Y  in the 2DLDA subspace. 
Ultimately, the discriminant information of the 
whole image is packed into the up-left corner 
of the image matrix. This method, which has 
been used efficiently in dorsal hand vein 
recognition, is described as below: 
Give a training set  1 2, ,..., MA A A , M is 
the number of the training images and the size 
of each image matrix is m n . The ith  
training image is denoted by an matrix iA  
( 1,2,...,i M ), and the average image of all 
training samples is denoted by A . 
 10
operating characteristic (ROC) curve is used to 
report the performance of the proposed method. 
The ROC curve is a false match rate (FMR) 
versus false non-match rate (FNMR) curve [28] 
which measures the accuracy of matching 
process and shows the overall performance of 
an algorithm. The FMR (sometimes called false 
genuine error) is the probability that a test 
sample of an imposter is falsely declared to 
match a template of an authorized subject and 
the FNMR (sometimes called false impostor 
error) is the probability that a test sample of an 
authorized subject is falsely declared not to 
match his template. The equal error rate (EER) 
is the point where the FMR and the FNMR are 
equal in value. The smaller the EER is, the 
better the algorithm. In our experiments, the 
measures described above are used for 
performance evaluation. The following 
subsections detail the experiments and results. 
5.1 Dorsal hand vein database 
A Near-Infrared CCD camera was used to 
acquire dorsal hand vein images. It possesses 
the benefits of high availability, uniform and 
consistent good image quality, convenience and 
low cost. In this work, the camera that we used 
to acquire dorsal hand vein images was a 
digital noise reduction (DNR) DSP Camera, as 
shown in Fig. 2. The captured dorsal hand vein 
images are 8-bit gray images with a resolution 
of 320 240 . The reason for using such a low 
spatial resolution is that both the data amount 
of dorsal hand vein images and noise 
sensitivities can be reduced while the features 
of dorsal hand veins can still be preserved. To 
obtain high verification accuracy, it is 
important to construct an objective verification 
template library. Therefore, 214 volunteers 
were enrolled in our study and the dorsal hand 
vein images were captured from their right 
hands at two different times at an interval of at 
least one month. Ten dorsal hand vein images 
were acquired each time for each person. The 
database constructed in this way includes 
possible variations of dorsal hand vein images 
under various conditions. So this database 
includes 4280 dorsal hand vein images from 
214 different volunteers. The database covers 
several racial groups, including Chinese, 
African and Caucasian. The age group of those 
volunteers was between 18 and 60 years, and 
their occupations ranged from university 
students, professors and technicians to manual 
workers such as cleaners and electricians. 
There was not a specific distinction between 
male and female when the samples were 
collected. 
At present, only small datasets are used to 
evaluate recognition performance for dorsal 
hand vein recognition by most methods. To 
demonstrate the robustness of the proposed 
approach, in our experiments, we construct the 
large database involving more than 200 
subjects. In the future, we hope that the large 
database can be downloaded by the researcher 
of biometric verification for free. Finally, the 
experiments conducted below are running on 
the computing environment of 3.2GHz PC with 
2GB RAM using Matlab 7.0. 
5.2 Performance evaluation of the proposed 
method 
In order to evaluate the recognition 
accuracy, a large number of images from the 
dorsal hand vein database were constructed (as 
described in Sec. 5.1). Experiment on our 
dorsal hand vein image database: In this section, 
two experiments conducted to demonstrate the 
performance of the proposed method for dorsal 
hand vein recognition. The first test is to 
analyze the relationship between the 
recognition accuracy and the different 
resolutions of ROI images. The second one is 
on the number of modified (2D)2LDA 
eigenvectors selected for the proposed and to 
further evaluate the recognition performance of 
modified (2D)2LDA. 
To investigate the relationship between 
the recognition accuracy and the resolution of 
dorsal hand vein images, each ROI image is 
decomposed into different levels (128 128 , 
64 64 , 32 32  and 16 16  resolutions) and 
the images at each level are tested. Therefore, 
there are four levels, the image with 128 128  
resolution is the 1st  level and 16 16  
resolution is the 4th level (as shown in Fig. 6). 
The feature vector of each testing vein image is 
matched against each stored template at each 
level. A total of 457,960 ( 10 214 214  ) 
 12
 
Fig. 8 The ROC curves at 1st and 2nd level. 
In the second test, we evaluate the effect 
of parameter values on the recognition 
performance of the modified (2D)2LDA. The 
modified (2D)2LDA introduces two parameters, 
one is the number of row eigenvectors rowd , 
the other is the number of cloumn of 
eigenvectors colq . Table 3 depicts the effect of 
rowd  and colq  on the CRR obtained using the 
modified (2D)2LDA. As Table 3 shows, the 
maximum CRR (99.73%) is obtained when 
8rowd  . When the number of column 
eigenvectors 5colq  , colq  has little effect on 
the CRR of the modified (2D)2LDA. We chose 
the value that corresponds to the best 
recognition result on our database when 
5colq   and 8rowd  . Table 4 gives the 
comparisons of several methods on recognition 
accuracy, corresponding dimension of feature 
vector (for PCA and LDA) or feature matrices 
(for the other methods) and running times. It 
can be found from Table 4 that the recognition 
accuracy of proposed modified (2D)2LDA 
method is significantly higher than other 
methods despite having reduced feature matrix. 
Furthermore, the selected optimal value (8 8 ) 
in (2D)2LDA is slightly larger than the optimal 
value (5 8 ) in modified (2D)2LDA. Finally, 
Table 4 shows that modified (2D)2LDA 
methods consume least running time among the 
other methods. Also, experimental results show 
that the proposed dorsal hand vein 
representation is effective and the proposed 
approach can really extract promising features 
from each dorsal hand vein image to achieve 
the task of dorsal hand vein recognition. 
Table 3 The effect of rowd  and colq  on the CRR 
obtained using the modified (2D)2LDA 
 
Table 4 Running times, dimension of feature vectors and 
Recognition accuracy of seven methods 
 
5.3 Comparison and discussion 
Experimental results demonstrated in Sec. 
5.2 reveal that the proposed method is an 
effective scheme for feature extraction from 
dorsal hand vein images and achieve a CRR 
rate up to 99.73% for our dorsal hand vein 
database. The approaches of the PCA, LDA, 
2DPCA, 2DLDA, (2D)2PCA and (2D)2LDA 
are well-known ones among the existing 
schemes for pattern recognition. To compare 
the proposed technique with those schemes, the 
results are shown in Table 4 after implementing 
those dorsal hand vein recognition algorithms. 
Together with our proposed scheme, seven 
approaches are tested using the 214 classes of 
our database. As shown in Table 4 and Fig. 9, 
the proposed method still can fulfill the 
demand of high accuracy suitable for very high 
security environments. Fig. 9 displays the ROC 
curve of seven methods. Experimental results 
demonstrate that our method is much better 
than the four methods of PCA, LDA, 2DPCA 
and 2DLDA, and can compete with the other 
two approaches, (2D)2PCA and (2D)2LDA. 
The total time for identifying one vein images 
from database is average 0.72 second on the 
same hardware (described in Sec. 5.1). 
 14
method is proposed to extract the principal vein 
features. The modified (2D)2LDA, which 
works in the column direction of images in the 
low-dimensional 2DLDA subspace, can 
increase the recognition rate and reduce the 
coefficients of feature matrix. The main 
advantage of modified (2D)2LDA over 
(2D)2LDA and (2D)2PCA lies in that the 
number of coefficients needed by the former 
for dorsal hand vein representation and 
recognition is slight smaller than the latter.  
In this paper, we also demonstrate that the use 
of the finger peaks as the datum points to 
define ROIs is reliable and reproducible. Under 
normal conditions, the ROIs should cover 
almost the same region in different dorsal hand 
vein images. Within the ROI, obvious principal 
vein features are extracted by applying the 
modified (2D)2LDA method. Then, any new 
vein features are matched with those from the 
template library by the minimum distance 
classifier (MDC) to verify the identity of the 
person. Experimental results demonstrate that 
the proposed approach can obtain acceptable 
verification accuracy. Such an approach can be 
applied in access control systems. The 
proposed algorithms are also compared with 
different algorithms and the performance is 
highly suitable for real time applications. 
Therefore, we propose a novel and efficient 
method for personal identification with dorsal 
hand vein images. 
 
C. B. Hsu, S. S. Hao and J. C. Lee, “Personal 
Authentication through Dorsal Hand Vein 
Patterns,” Optical Engineering, Vol. 50, No. 8, 
pp. 087201-1--087201-10, 2011. 
 
 
References 
  
[1] A.K. Jain, R. Bolle, S. Pankanti, Biometrics Personal 
Identification in Networked Society, Kluwer 
Academic Publishers, Massachusetts, 1999. 
[2] P. MacGregor, R.Welford, Veincheck: imaging for 
security and personnel identification, Adv. Imaging 
6 (7) (1991) 52–56. 
[3] P.L. Hawkes, D.O. Clayden, Veincheck research for 
automatic identification of people, in: Presented at 
the Hand and Fingerprint Seminar at NPL, 
September 1993, pp. 230-236. 
[4] Fujitsu Laboratories Ltd: Fujitsu Laboratories 
develops technology for world’s first contactless 
palm vein pattern biometric authentication system, 
[Online March 2003], available at: 
 http://pr.fujitsu.com/en/news/2003/03/31.html   
[5] Lin Xirong, Zhuang Bo, Measurement and matching 
of human vein pattern characteristics, Journal of 
Tsinghua University (Science and Technology) 43 
(2) (2003) 164-167. 
[6] K. J. Wang, Y. Zhang, Z. Yuan and D. Y. Zhuang, 
Hand vein recognition based on multi supplemental 
features of multi-classifier fusion decision, In: 
Proceedings of the 2006 IEEE International 
Conference on Mechatronics and Automation, 2006, 
pp. 25-28. 
[7] Z. L. Wang, B. C. Zhang, W. P. Chen and Y. S. Gao, 
A performance evaluation of shape and texture 
based methods for vein recognition, Image and 
Signal Processing, vol. 2, 2008, pp. 659-661. 
[8] C.-L. Lin and K.-C. Fan, Biometric verification using 
thermal images of palm-dorsa vein patterns, IEEE 
Trans. Circuits and Systems for Video Technology 
14 (2) (2004) 199–213. 
[9] L. Wang, G. Leedham, and D. S. Cho, Infrared 
imaging of hand vein patterns for biometric 
purposes, The Institution of Engineering and 
Technology, Computer Vision, vol. 1, 2007, pp. 
113–122. 
[10] L. Wang, G. Leedham and D.S. Cho, Minutiae 
feature analysis for infrared hand vein pattern 
biometrics, Pattern Recognition 41 (3) (2008) 
920-929. 
[11] J.G. Wang, W.Y. Yau, and A. Suwandy, Fusion of 
palmprint and palm vein images for person 
recognition based on laplacianpalm feature, 
Pattern Recognition 41(5) (2008) 1514–1527. 
[12] A. Kumar, and K.V. Prathyusha, Personal 
authentication using hand vein triangulation and 
knuckle shape, IEEE Transactions on Image 
Processing 18(9) (2009) 2127–2136. 
[13] Y. Wang, L. Kefeng,  J. Cui, L. K. Shark, M. 
Varley, Study of Hand-Dorsa Vein Recognition, 
In Proceedings of ICIC, vol. 1, 2010, pp.490-498.  
[14] S. Crisan, I.G. Tarnovan and T.E. Crisan, Radiation 
optimization and image processing algorithms in 
the identification of hand vein patterns, Comput. 
Standards & Interfaces, vol. 32, 2010, pp. 
130-140. 
[15] M.M. Khan, R.K. Subramanian, and N. A. Khan,  
Low Dimensional Representation of Dorsal Hand 
Vein Features Using Principle Component 
Analysis (PCA), World Academy of Science, 
Engineering and Technology, vol. 49, 2009, pp. 
1001-1007. 
[16] M. Turk and A. Pentland, Eigenfaces for 
recognition, Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience 3 
(1) (1991) 71-86.  
[17] L. Zhao and Y. Yang, Theoretical analysis of 
illumination in PCA based vision systems, Pattern 
Recognition 32 (4) (1999) 547-564. 
[18] H. Yu and J. Yang, A direct LDA algorithm for 
 16
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用
價值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是
否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評
估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
▉  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：▉已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ▉無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ▉無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
手背靜脈識別是近年來最可靠的生物特徵識別之一。在本研究計畫中主要包括了採用
近紅外線 CCD 攝影機擷取手臂靜脈影像、運用兩個特徵點定義 ROI(Region of Interest)及
提出 modified (2D)2LDA (Modified 2-directional 2-dimensional linear discriminant analysis)實
施特徵擷取，計畫分兩階段逐步探討。第一階段乃建置高品質的手背靜脈影像資料庫以利
後續進行識別，亦為後續對此議題有興趣之研究者，提供一個良好的靜脈影像資料庫。第
二階段，則是針對清晰的手背靜脈影像實施 ROI 定位，所提出之定位方法非常具強健性，
可供後續研究者採用，另影像特徵擷取方面，乃運用全域形的特徵擷取方法，提出改善
(2D)2LDA 方法並擷取其特徵，並運用歐式距離方法實施有效比對，實驗結果證明所提出
之方法可有效的運用於手背靜脈識別，部分研究成果已於 2011 年發表在 Optical 
Engineering (SCI)期刊 1 篇及接受於 Advanced Science Letters (SCI) 2 篇。 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/18
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 運用仿射不變量特徵於人類手背靜脈識別之研究
計畫主持人: 李仁軍
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-012-003- 學門領域: 訊號處理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
