 2 
 
摘要 
 
間葉系幹細胞（mesenchymal stem cell）是成體幹細胞的一種，具有自我更新與多元分化能力，能分化
成硬骨、軟骨、脂肪、肌肉等細胞，是一相當適合作為組織工程之標的。目前的關鍵問題之一是如何
在體外大量培養間葉系幹細胞，為簡化系統，本計劃先將針對哺乳動物細胞為標的，使用高通量影像
系統，配合綠色螢光蛋白質DNA質體與脂質包覆系統來建立體外轉染效率、綠色螢光蛋白質表現與細
胞毒性之評估分析。未來將此脂質包覆系統搭配可分解微載體支架配合生長因子DNA質體來建立體外
微載體培養之複合系統，增生間葉系幹細胞。 
 
Keywords: 細胞毒性、轉染效率、綠色螢光蛋白質表現 
 
 
 
Abstract 
 
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) can differentiate into adipogenic, chondrogenic and osteogenic lineages. 
Given the advantages of self renewal and multi-differentiation functions, MSCs is a potent target for tissue 
engineering. The topic, how to ex vivo expand the MSCs for further therapeutic applications, has attracted the 
attention. In order to simplify the multiple system, the DNA-binding lipid carriers were used to evaluate the 
transfection efficacy, cytotoxicity, and expression of green fluorescence protein in three mammalian cell lines. 
A high-throughput image system is used to evaluate the performance of various lipid formulations. In the near 
future,  the lipid-based plasmid delivery system and biodegradable microcarriers to expand the MSCs ex 
vivo and investigate their proliferation and differentiation potentials. 
 
Keywords: transfection efficacy, cytotoxicity, green fluorescence protein 
 4 
1-3-dimethylaminopropyl-3-ethylcarbodiimide (EDC) as a crosslinker. Effects of the EDC concentration, the 
ratio of amino acid to fatty acid, and concentrations of the amino acids on physical properties (zeta potential, 
droplet size, and stability) were studied to optimize the preparation of cationic nanoemulsions. Complexes 
composed of cationic amino acid-modified nanoemulsions and green fluorescence protein (GFP) encoding 
plasmid (p)DNA were characterized to study their zeta potential, droplet size, and morphology. The 
transfection efficiency and cytotoxicity of the cationic nanoemulsion against 3T3 fibroblasts were evaluated 
by flow cytometry and an MTT assay. The influence of droplet size (157~229 nm) on the transfection 
efficiency was also investigated. The morphology of the complexes composed of a nanoemulsion and plasmid 
was characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). 
2. Materials and methods 
2.1. Materials 
Arginine, lysine, histidine, MTT, oleic acid, EDC, and Span 85 were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich (St. 
Louis, MO, USA). Tween 80 was provided by IL-Shin Emulsifier Co (Seoul, Korea). Plasmid EGFP-C3 was 
obtained from Takara Bio (Shiga, Japan). The plasmid was amplified in Escherichia coli DH-5 alpha and 
purified using a plasmid maxiprep kit (GeneMark, Taipei, Taiwan). EGFP encodes a red-shifted variant of a 
wild-type GFP which is optimized for brighter fluorescence and higher expression in mammalian cells (with 
an excitation maximum of 488 nm and an emission maximum of 507 nm). The water used in this study was 
freshly purified by a Milli-Q Gradient A10 system (Millipore, Molsheim, France). All reagents were used 
without further purification. 
 
2.2 Preparation of cationic nanoemulsions 
The 3% oleic acid (OA), 0.6% Tween 80, 0.4% Span 85, and 96% water were emulsified with an ultrasonic 
probe (XL2000, Misonic, Farmingdale, NY, USA). The obtained OA nanoemulsions (at a volume of 5 mL) 
were then modified with different amino acids. Amino acid modification was achieved by a coupling reaction 
between the carboxylic group of OA (oil-soluble) and the α-amino group of the amino acids (water-soluble) 
with EDC as the condensing reagent for 1 h at room temperature. The cationic emulsions prepared were used 
as transfection reagents. In the storage test, the cationic nanoemulsion was stored in the dark at room 
temperature for 1 month. The droplet size and zeta potential of the nanoemulsions were determined at fixed 
intervals. 
 
2.3. Measurement of the physicochemical properties of nanoemulsions and emulsion/DNA complexes 
The average particle size, polydispersity index (PI), and zeta potential in different formulations were 
characterized using a Zetasizer Nano ZS 90 (Malvern, Worcestershine, UK) at a fixed angle of 90° and a 
temperature of 25 °C. The PI is an indication of the particle size distribution. The smaller the PI is, the more 
consistent the size distribution of dispersion is. The zeta potential characterizes the surface charge of particles 
which is an indicator of the long-term stability. Zeta potential absolute values of ≥ 30 mV represent a stable 
formulation. Samples were diluted with water (adjusted to pH 5.0 by HCl) to a suitable concentration before 
the analysis of size distribution. The amount of emulsion was quantified as the contents of the surfactant and 
lipid in the formulation. 
 
2.4. Cell culture and transfection protocol 
 6 
abundant fatty acid in human adipose tissue. However, oxidation at the double bond (rancidification) occurs 
slowly in air. OA offers an immunologically less-harmful alternative to linoleic acid for parenteral and enteral 
applications [24]. The carboxyl group of OA on the surface of nanoemulsions provides a modification site to 
conjugate with cationic amino acids. Carbodiimide is a carboxyl- and amine-reactive zero-length crosslinker, 
which reacts with the carboxyl group of OA and forms an amine reactive O-acylisourea intermediate that can 
further react with the amino group of amino acids to form an amide bond. Three cationic amino acids, i.e., 
arginine, lysine, and histidine, were used to modify the nanoemulsion surface charge from negative to positive. 
In order to maximize the cationic charge on the nanoemulsion surface, two important factors of the 
cross-linker and amino acid concentrations were investigated. Effects of the EDC concentration on the surface 
charge and droplet size of nanoemulsion were evaluated after the modification reaction. A dosage-dependent 
relation existed between the EDC concentration and zeta potential of the modified nanoemulsions (Fig 1). The 
zeta potential is a measure of the surface charge of colloids. When the EDC concentration increased from 0.01 
to 0.1 M, the zeta potential shifted from a negative to positive charge. More cross-linkers can activate more 
carboxyl groups of OA, and thus they could conjugate more cationic amino acids on the surface of the 
nanoemulsions. The positive charge of the modified lipids can provide a superficial charge to the emulsions 
and further interacted with negatively charged DNA to form nanoemulsion-DNA complexes. The zeta 
potentials of amino acid-modified nanoemulsions were in the order of lysine > arginine > histidine as the 
concentration of EDC increased. The maximal zeta potentials of lysine-, arginine-, and histidine-modified 
nanoemulsion were 50, 43, and 7 mV, respectively. The surface potential results can be explained according to 
pKa values of the three amino acids. The imidazole side chain of histidine has a pKa of approximately 6, 
which means that a relatively small increase in pH will shift its positive charge to the negative in a neutral 
condition. In contrast, the ε-amino group of lysine and the guanidinium group of arginine have pKa values of 
10.5 and 12.48, respectively. The relatively high pKa values can maintain a positive charge for amino groups 
in acidic and neutral environments. The high positive potential also indicated that the amino groups of lysine 
and arginine were fully protonated under the experimental condition. The difference in the zeta potentials of 
the two modified nanoemulsions might have been caused by variations in the length of the alkyl side chains of 
the cationic amino acids [14]. The amino group of lysine has a higher zeta potential than that of arginine 
because it is located at the terminus of a relatively long side chain. The conjugation efficiencies of lysine and 
arginine with OA on the surface of nanoemulsion might also have affected the zeta potential results. In 
addition, the zeta potentials of the modified nanoemulsions became saturated when the EDC concentration 
increased to 0.2 M. FA further increase in the amount of EDC did not enhance the cationic surface charge on 
the nanoemulsions, which possibly suggests the limited supply of free carboxyl groups and/or free amino 
groups. These hypotheses require further investigation. Effects of amino acid modification on the droplet size 
were also investigated in this study. A previous report showed that a small droplet size makes the dispersion 
stable against sedimentation and precipitation, hence promotes increased emulsion stability [25]. The droplet 
sizes of the modified nanoemulsions slightly increased by about 10% after amino acid modification compared 
to the unmodified nanoemulsion (Fig. 1). However, the cationic modification did not induce emulsion 
aggregation or phase separation. The size analysis indicated that cationic modification had only minor effects 
on the size distributions of the nanoemulsions. Histidine- and lysine-modified nanoemulsions had narrower 
size distribution ranges (160~170 nm) than that of arginine (150~180 nm). 
 In order to maximize the zeta potential on the nanoemulsions, the surface charges of the nanoemulsions 
 8 
 TEM was performed to observe the morphology of the nanoemulsions, and nanoemulsion-DNA 
complexes. Oil-droplet aggregations were clearly noted under dehydration conditions for electron microscope. 
Nanoemulsions with diameters of 125~200 nm were detected as shown in Fig. 4A. A compact 
nanoemulsion-DNA complex was detected as shown in Fig. 4B by TEM. The photo indicates that some of the 
plasmid DNA was bound to the exterior of several oil droplets. Several oil droplets were aggregated by the 
DNA strands to form the complexes with a size of about 300 nm. The external DNA was not further 
encapsulated within lipid droplets. Some plasmid DNA was free and unbound by the cationic nanoemulsions. 
The results showed that the size of the nanoemulsion and pDNA complex measured by TEM was similar to 
that measured by photon correlation spectroscopy. 
 
3.2 Cytotoxicity and transfection efficiency of cationic complexes 
Electrostatic interactions between cationic lipid carriers and plasmid DNA have a great impact on the 
condensation of DNA and transfection activities [27]. The transfection efficiencies and cytotoxicities of amino 
acid-modified nanoemulsions were evaluated in mouse fibroblast 3T3 cells. GFP encoding pDNA was used as 
a reporter system as the transfection efficiency could be quantitatively analyzed by flow cytometry. Plasmid 
DNA was fixed at a concentration of 1 μg/mL for the transfection of 3T3 cells. Complexes composed of 
cationic amino acid-modified nanoemulsions and pDNA were prepared by varying the lipid-to-pDNA ratio. 
The complexes were then transfected into 3T3 cells under a serum-free condition. The nanoemulsion-to-DNA 
ratios employed were in the range of 1.2~14.5 (w/w). The transfection efficiency of lysine-modified 
nanoemulsions gradually increased from 0% to 25% when the nanoemulsion-to-DNA ratios increased from 0 
to 6.2. A further increase in lysine-modified nanoemulsions did not enhance the transfection efficiency. The 
transfection efficiency of arginine-modified nanoemulsions reached the maximal efficiency of 20% when the 
ratio was 2.4. As can be seen in Fig. 5, complexes prepared at a high ratio respectively provided maximal 
transfection efficiencies of 25% and 20% for lysine- and arginine-modified nanoemulsions. However, 
histidine-modified nanoemulsions could only transfect about 3% of 3T3 cells with green fluorescence, which 
might have been due to the weak cationic charge on the complexes (about 7 mV). The transfection efficiency 
could be slightly increased when more histidine-modified nanoemulsions were added. The transfection 
efficiencies of modified nanoemulsions were as follows: lysine > arginine > histidine. The order was the same 
as that of their zeta potentials. The cationic nanoemulsions modified by lysine or arginine were able to 
promote transfection in a wide window of mixing ratios, while cells incubated with only pDNA did not result 
in detectable levels of EGFP expression. The transfection of 3T3 cells was also observed by fluorescence 
microscopy. The transfected cells had green fluorescence in their cytoplasm. Gene transfection abilities of the 
amino acid-modified nanoemulsions appeared to be directly related to the surface charge of the formed 
complexes (Figs. 3, 5). Cytotoxicities of the nanoemulsion/DNA complexes on 3T3 fibroblasts were 
investigated using an MTT assay. As indicated in Fig. 5, the viability decreased as the nanoemulsion-to-DNA 
ratio increased. Additionally, the high transfection efficiency was accompanied by high toxicity as shown by 
the transfection efficiency and viability results. However, the cell viability was still > 84% for all amino 
acid-modified nanoemulsions. The low cytotoxicity of the three amino acid-modified nanoemulsions might be 
attributable to the biocompatibility and biodegradation of the amino acid and OA. Furthermore, ester bonds of 
the amino acid-based cationic lipids are readily hydrolyzed in cells, thereby lowering their cytotoxicity. The 
results demonstrated the biological safety of cationic nanoemulsions for transfection applications. Very 
 10 
caveolin-mediated endocytosis but the smaller ones can be internalized via clathrin-mediated endocytosis [31]. 
However, optimal lipoplexs size on the transfection activity has not been unified so far. Difference in 
transfection conditions such as cationic lipids, genes, and cell types may result in different conclusions about 
the optimal size. In contrast to the lipoplexes, size effects of nanoemulsions–DNA complexes on gene 
delivery have not been extensively investigated. In this study, cationic emulsions with various sizes were 
evaluated for their transfection efficiency. We found that the transfection efficiency increased when the 
droplet size decreased for all the amino acid-modified emulsions. Although the size of the nanoemulsions 
might change after the formation of nanoemulsions–DNA complexes, the results in this study revealed that the 
size of the nanoemulsions affected in vitro gene delivery. Previously, cationic emulsions with small size 
(100-200 nm) are shown to have high efficiency in vivo delivery owing to a long circulation time [4]. 
Additionally, some researchers found that the cationic emulsion with the smallest emulsion size can form a 
compact DNA complex, resulting in maximal stability and high transfection efficiencies both in vitro and in 
vivo [5, 32].  
 
4. Conclusions  
 In spite of extensive research on emulsions, very few reports using cationic amino-based cationic 
nanoemulsions in gene delivery have been published. We prepared nanoemulsions consisting of OA, SPAN 85, 
and Tween 80, and modified the OA with cationic amino acids with the help of carbodiimide. Among the 
cationic amino acid-modified nanoemulsions, lysine and arginine were the most effective in gene transfection 
into 3T3 cells, followed by histidine. This implies that positively charged amino groups of cationic 
nanoemulsions are effectively able to participate in lipoplex formation. The potent transfection activity 
observed may be attributed to the strong DNA-binding affinity and effective distribution of positive surface 
charges on the lipoplex surface, which possibly mediates efficient interactions between cells and complexes. 
Even though these amino acid-modified lipids all had a common OA structure and differed only in side chains, 
they exhibited different complex surface charges and in vitro gene-transferring capabilities. The overall 
architecture of these amino acid-based cationic lipids was largely determined by the nature of the hydrophilic 
head group. The “in vitro” transfection levels were mainly affected by the amino acid modification, zeta 
potential, and size of the nanoemulsions. Our results show the potential of amino acid-modified cationic 
nanoemulsions to serve as non-viral vectors for gene delivery. 
 
Acknowledgements 
The project was supported by the National Science Council (NSC 96-2628-E-182-039-MY2). 
 
 12 
 
Amino acid/ nanoemulsion ratio (w/w)
0.00 0.05 0.10 0.15 0.20 0.25
Si
ze
 (n
m
)
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
Ze
ta
 p
ot
en
tia
l (
m
V)
-50
0
50
100
150
200
Arg
Lys
His
Arg (zeta)
Lys (zeta)
His (zeta)
 
 
Fig. 2. Effects of amino acid concentration on size and zeta potential of cationic nanoemulsions 
 14 
 
 
 
Fig. 4. Morphologies of nanoemulsions and nanoemulsion/DNA complexes by using TEM. (A) 
Lys-nanoemulsions only, (B) Lys-nanoemulsion/DNA complexes. The Lys-nanoemulsion/DNA ratio is 4.8. 
The bar stands for 0.5 μm. 
 
 
Modified nanoemulsion / DNA ratio (w/w)
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16
Tr
an
sf
ec
tio
n 
ef
fic
ie
nc
y 
(%
)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Vi
ab
ilit
y 
(%
)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Arg
Lys
His
Arg (via)
Lys (via)
His (via)
 
Fig. 5. Effects of modified nanoemulsion/DNA ratio on 3T3 transfection efficiency and viability 
(A) (B) 
 16 
References: 
[1] M. Morille, C. Passirani, A. Vonarbourg, A. Clavreul, J.P. Benoit, Progress in developing cationic vectors 
for non-viral systemic gene therapy against cancer, Biomaterials 29 (2008) 3477-3496. 
[2] L. De Laporte, J. Cruz Rea, L.D. Shea, Design of modular non-viral gene therapy vectors, Biomaterials 
27 (2006) 947-954. 
[3] S.L. Hart, Lipid carriers for gene therapy, Curr. Drug Deliv. 2 (2005) 423-428. 
[4] H.Y. Nam, J.H. Park, K. Kim, I.C. Kwon, S.Y. Jeong, Lipid-based emulsion system as non-viral gene 
carriers, Arch. Pharm. Res. 32 (2009) 639-646. 
[5] S.M. Kwon, H.Y. Nam, T. Nam, K. Park, S. Lee, K. Kim, I.C. Kwon, J. Kim, D. Kang, J.H. Park, S.Y. 
Jeong, In vivo time-dependent gene expression of cationic lipid-based emulsion as a stable and biocompatible 
non-viral gene carrier, J. Control. Release 128 (2008) 89-97. 
[6] G. Ott, M. Singh, J. Kazzaz, M. Briones, E. Soenawan, M. Ugozzoli, D.T. O'Hagan, A cationic 
sub-micron emulsion (MF59/DOTAP) is an effective delivery system for DNA vaccines, J. Control. Release 
79 (2002) 1-5. 
[7] W.-J. Choi, J.-K. Kim, S.-H. Choi, J.-S. Park, W.S. Ahn, C.-K. Kim, Low toxicity of cationic lipid-based 
emulsion for gene transfer, Biomaterials 25 (2004) 5893-5903. 
[8] T. Hara, F. Liu, D. Liu, L. Huang, Emulsion formulations as a vector for gene delivery in vitro and in 
vivo, Adv. Drug Deliv. Rev. 24 (1997) 265-271. 
[9] H. Teixeira, C. Dubernet, F. Puisieux, S. Benita, P. Couvreur, Submicron cationic emulsions as a new 
delivery system for oligonucleotides, Pharm. Res. 16 (1999) 30-36. 
[10] T.W. Kim, H. Chung, I.C. Kwon, H.C. Sung, S.Y. Jeong, In vivo gene transfer to the mouse nasal cavity 
mucosa using a stable cationic lipid emulsion, Mol. Cells 10 (2000) 142-147. 
[11] H.S. Yoo, S.M. Kwon, Y.J. Kim, H. Chung, I.C. Kwon, J. Kim, S.Y. Jeong, Cationic lipid emulsions 
containing heavy oils for the transfection of adherent cells, J. Control. Release 98 (2004) 179-188. 
[12] S. Zhang, Y. Xu, B. Wang, W. Qiao, D. Liu, Z. Li, Cationic compounds used in lipoplexes and polyplexes 
for gene delivery, J. Control. Release 100 (2004) 165-180. 
[13] H.S. Kim, J. Moon, K.S. Kim, M.M. Choi, J.E. Lee, Y. Heo, D.H. Cho, D.O. Jang, Y.S. Park, 
Gene-Transferring Efficiencies of Novel Diamino Cationic Lipids with Varied Hydrocarbon Chains, 
Bioconjug. Chem. 15 (2004) 1095-1101. 
[14] Y. Obata, D. Suzuki, S. Takeoka, Evaluation of cationic assemblies constructed with amino acid based 
lipids for plasmid DNA delivery, Bioconjug. Chem. 19 (2008) 1055-1063. 
[15] M.R. Infante, L. Pérez, A. Pinazo, P. Clapés, M.C. Moría, M. Angelet, M.T. Garcaí, M.P. Vinardell, 
Amino acid-based surfactants, Comptes Rendus Chimie 7 (2004) 583-592. 
[16] A. Pinazo, M.R. Infante, P. Izquierdo, C. Solans, Synthesis of arginine-based surfactants in highly 
concentrated water-in-oil emulsions, Journal of the Chemical Society. Perkin Transactions 2 (2000) 
1535-1539. 
[17] C. Solans, P. Izquierdo, J. Nolla, N. Azemar, M.J. Garcia-Celma, Nano-emulsions, Curr. Opin. Colloid 
Interface Sci. 10 (2005) 102-110. 
[18] W.J. Choi, J.K. Kim, S.H. Choi, J.S. Park, W.S. Ahn, C.K. Kim, Low toxicity of cationic lipid-based 
emulsion for gene transfer, Biomaterials 25 (2004) 5893-5903. 
[19] A. del Pozo-Rodríguez, D. Delgado, M.A. Solinís, A.R. Gascón, J.L. Pedraz, Solid lipid nanoparticles: 
 1 
長庚大學劉繼賢出席國際學術會議心得報告 
 
計畫編號 
 
NSC98-2221-E-182-013 
計畫名稱 明膠載體配合質體 DNA釋放系統來促進幹細胞體外增生 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職
稱 
 
劉繼賢 
長庚大學生化與生醫工程研究所副教授 
洪德鎧、溫竣傑 
長庚大學生化與生醫工程研究所研究生(計畫兼任助理) 
會議時間地點 時間 98 年 9月 23日至 98 年 9 月 25日共 3 天 
會議地點：日本 名古屋 
會議名稱 
 
 
第 61回日本生物工學會大會 
 
發表論文題目 
 
Valine ester a novel small molecular enhancer for recombinant 
protein expression in CHO cells 
 
 
出國人員: 劉繼賢、洪德鎧、溫竣傑 
參加會議經過 
日本生物工學大會是日本每年必辦的生化工程與生物技術盛會，有多國專家與會並發表生物科技的
最新進展，也由 Journal of Bioscience Bioengineering(Sci, IF)雜誌文章中挑選年輕學著，頒
發 Young Researchers Award，此大會是由日本生物工學會(Society of Biotechnology Japan, SBJ)
舉辦，所有發表以口頭報告方式舉行，發表人須加入 SBJ學會始能發表，約有 660篇口頭報告，分
為 13個回會場舉行，本次大會約有 1200人與會，SBJ年會是日本生物工學的年度盛事，幾乎所有
重點實驗室都有發表論文，發表人有研究生與教授，無不盡全力整理結果與製作幻燈片，內容非常
具深度且幻燈片製作精美，非常值得參加。雖然我有學過幾年日文，但是聽力很弱，閱讀還算可以，
演講幾乎都是用日語，勉強可以大約了解演講內容，隨行的 2位碩二研究生洪德鎧、溫竣傑則完全
沒有日文基礎，所以相當辛苦，還好演講幻燈片多有英文註解，可以大致了解內容。會中只有中國、
韓國、泰國研究人員與來自台灣的我用英文發表，日本人相當準時，時間控制非常明確，邀請演講
24分鐘 6分鐘討論，一般演講 10分鐘 2 分鐘討論，第一天(9/23)早上到下午 15:00是 2009年度
得獎人專題演講，包括下列主題: 
1. ”Optimization of bioprocess systems”，Suteaki SHIOYA (Dept. Appl. Life Sci., Sojo 
Univ.) 
2. "Cell Control Based on Designing Solid Surfaces"，Masahito TAYA (Div. Chem. Eng., Grad. 
Sch. Eng. Sci., Osaka Univ.) 
3. "Biological mutualism and parasitism: from molecular mechanisms to biotechnological 
applications"，Takashi YAMADA (Dept. Mol. Biotech., Grad. School. ADSM, Hiroshima Univ.)  
4. "Novel conversion processes with lactic acid bacteria from Shochu Kasu into valuable 
materials" 
…*Yoshifumi FURUTA1, Naruyuki MARUOKA1, Akihiro NAKAMURA1,Toshiro OMORI1, Kenji 
SONOMOTO2,3 (1Sanwa Shurui Co., Ltd., 2Fac. Agric., Kyushu Univ.,3Bio-Arch., Kyushu Univ.)  
5. "Development of genome-engineering technology and its application to genome science 
and biotechnology in Saccharomyces serevisiae"，Minetaka SUGIYAMA (Dept. Biotech., Grad. 
Sch. Eng., Osaka Univ.)  
6. "Study on engineering application of the control algorithm derived from organisms"，
 3 
是否有恆心毅力去貫徹執行研究，還需要靠指導老師的鼓勵與誘導。其中有數篇老鼠胚胎幹細胞的
發表，也都有可以發表成期刊論文的水準，令人佩服。 
 第二天我與研究生洪德鎧、溫竣傑有一篇論文發表，排在第 3場，因為需要事先檢查電腦與設
定，所以 8:30就提早到會場準備。由於溫竣傑自己沒有把握所以由我發表，有 2位教授提出問題，
相較於其他 14篇研究，我的內容非常淺薄，實驗的部份需要另外設計以確認小分子藥物作用機制，
此次出國開會，深感別人的努力與自己的不足，當然日本有講座制度，所以有一位資深教授來帶多
位新進老師，眾人一起在一個共同領域努力，所以研究有延續性與深度，讓我也在思索如何讓自己
的研究深度提高，或許應該縮少研究項目與範圍，並且針對特定方向加油。9/24 早上 K會場講演
(9:00-12:00)的題目如下: 
2Ka01 磁化細胞アレイを用いた細胞応答の検出 ○小出 寛展 1,（1名大院・工・生物機能） 
2Ka02 細胞特異的接着・増殖制御ペプチドの探索および評価○蟹江 慧（1名大院・工・生物機
能） 
2Ka03 L-valine ester a novel small molecular enhancer for recombinant protein expression 
in Chinese hamster ovary cells○ Chi-Hsien Liu1, Chun-Chieh Wen1 （1Graduate Institute 
of Biochemical and Biomedical Engineering, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan） 
2Ka04 昆虫細胞を用いた日本脳炎ウイルス様粒子の生産，○山地 秀樹（神戸大院・工・応化） 
2Ka05 CHO 細胞浮遊培養における魚血清の添加濃度と熱処理の影響○藤原 政司(1北大院・工・
生物機能) 
2Ka06 逐次遺伝子組込みシステムによって作製した動物細胞を用いた組換え抗体生産，○河邉 
佳典（九大院・工・化工） 
2Ka08 ニワトリ卵管特異的高発現のための合成プロモーターシステムの開発○山元 秀晃,  
2Ka09 遺伝子導入ニワトリによるスギ花粉症治療用エピトープペプチド含有タンパク質の生産
○沼田 健作 1（1九大院・工・化工） 
2Ka10 E-カドヘリン遺伝子導入フィーダー細胞を用いたマウス ES 細胞の培養○堀江 正信（九
大院・工・化工） 
2Ka11 脊髄後根神経節培養上清液によるマウス胚性幹細胞からの筋肉細胞と神経細胞への分化 
○原 優里菜（1東洋大院・生命科学） 
2Ka12 生理的グルコース濃度下で形成したマウス ES 細胞胚様体の分化的特徴○望月 秀美(山梨
大院・医工総合・生命） 
2Ka13 マウス ES 細胞の胚様体分化に及ぼす培養面コート剤の影響○大貫 喜嗣（1山梨大院・医
工総合・生命） 
2Ka14 マイクロウェルチップにおけるマウス ES 胚様体の分化特性，○中澤 浩二, 吉浦 由貴子, 
堺 裕輔（北九州市大・工・環境生命） 
2Ka15 iPS 細胞からのオリゴデンドロサイト分化誘導○小川 真一郎（1東大院・工・化学生命） 
 
9/24 下午我們分別到 K會場講演(13:00-15:20)與 J 会場(15:30-18:40)聽演講，其中友 2場招待
講演，都是韓國教授的發表，分別是以抑制血管增生來減肥與開發韌帶細胞骨架之複合材料，頗具
參考價值，筑玻大學王碧昭教授也發表 2篇關於腎臟的研究，目標明確且有正面結果，是碩士班的
論文，品質較我們實驗室高出甚多，其他聆聽的演講題目如下: 
2Kp01 〈招待講演〉 
Anti-obesity agents from regional special natural products based on anti-angiogenesis
○ Jong Deog KIM（1Dept. Biotechnol., Chonnam Natl. Univ., Korea,） 
2Kp03 TRAILによるアポトーシスモデルを用いた HeLa細胞の形質評価○高野 幸太（1（独）産
業技術総合研究所・セルエンジニアリング研究部門,  
2Kp04 一細胞時系列計測による TRAIL 耐性 HeLa 細胞の感受化に関わる siRNAの評価○藤田 聡
史（1産総研・セル） 
 5 
 
發表論文 
 
Benzyl alcohol and its esters enhance recombinant protein expression in Chinese hamster ovary 
cells 
 
Chi-Hsien Liu1* and Chun-Chieh Wen 1 
Graduate Institute of Biochemical and Biomedical Engineering, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, 
Taiwan1   
*Corresponding author. e-mail: chl@mail.cgu.edu.tw 
phone: +886-3-2118800 ext. 3146 fax: +886-3-2118668 
 
Running title: Benzyl compounds enhance recombinant protein expression 
ABSTRACT 
Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells are commonly used to synthesize protein drugs. Small molecules 
capable of enhancing the expression of recombinant proteins have significant utility in the manufacture of 
therapeutic proteins because they can reduce manufacturing costs and accelerate protein drug development. 
To identify novel small molecular enhancers for recombinant protein expression in CHO cells, we 
screened benzyl alcohol, amino acid esters, and valproic acid to determine their enhancing abilities on the 
expression of recombinant proteins under serum-free conditions. Macrophage colony-stimulating factor 
(M-CSF)-secreting CHO cells were used as a model cell line in this study. Benzyl group-containing 
compounds, including benzyl alcohol, and glycine-, valine-, 4-hydroxy-proline-, alanine-, proline-, and 
serine-benzyl esters, enhanced M-CSF production. Among the tested compounds, valine-benzyl ester and 
valproic acid significantly improved M-CSF production by 1.6-fold and 1.7-fold, respectively. The growth 
inhibition of the benzyl esters was not significant on CHO cells at the concentration of 0.5 mM compared 
to the control culture. However, benzyl alcohol and valproic acid inhibited cell proliferation at 
concentrations above 5 mM. Benzyl alcohol and its amino acid esters may act as inhibitors of histone 
deacetylase and enhance the M-CSF production in CHO cells. The results presented herein provide 
valuable information for the elevated yield of recombinant protein drugs using CHO cells.  
 
Keywords：Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells; benzyl alcohol; small molecule enhancer; recombinant 
protein; 
 
INTRODUCTION 
More than half of the recombinant therapeutic proteins are produced in mammalian cells, mainly due to 
the ability of mammalian hosts to generate high-quality proteins that are similar to those of humans. The 
growing demand for high-quality recombinant therapeutics is driving research and development into 
animal cell-based manufacturing systems for enhancing yields (1). Elevation of protein expression can 
reduce the costs and development time for therapeutic protein drugs. Different approaches in bioprocess 
engineering have been developed to increase protein production, such as optimization of culture 
conditions (2), design of continuous culture devices (3), and the addition of small molecule enhancers. 
Small molecules capable of enhancing protein production when added to culture media have been 
investigated, including phosphatidic acid (4), pentanoic acid (5), dimethylsulfoxide (6), and glycerol (7). 
Enhancer addition is an easy and cost-effective process that can successfully enhance recombinant protein 
expression with stable or transient gene expression. Very recently, researchers screened 93 compounds 
including aromatic carboxylic acids, hydroxamic acids, and acetamides in order to identify new enhancers 
that could increase recombinant protein expression in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells (8). Among the 
enhancers, the most studied compound was sodium butyrate, which is a histone deacetylase inhibitor. 
Inhibition of deacetylase induces hyperacetylation of lysine residues on histones in a non-competitive 
manner. This inhibition can enhance the transcriptional activity of some genes by rendering the chromatin 
structure more accessible to the transcriptional machinery (9). Using DNA microarray technology, 
butyrate treatment was recently found to affect chaperones, lipid metabolism, and protein processing (10). 
 7 
production of recombinant M-CSF production. As a putative inhibitor of histone deacetylase, valproic acid 
enhanced M-CSF production by 1.7-fold and significantly inhibited the proliferation of CHO cells at a 0.5 
mM concentration compared to the control (p < 0.05). All benzyl compounds tested in this study had 
stimulatory effects on M-CSF production, which indicated that the benzyl group was important for its 
stimulatory effects. However, it should be noted that the benzyl group did not influence the ELISA assay 
of M-CSF (data not shown). M-CSF production increased in the order of VA > VB > BA > GB > PB > HB 
> SB > AB > control. The addition of all tested compounds could significantly elevate the M-CSF 
production of CHO cells compared to the control (p < 0.05). The inhibitory effects on cell growth were 
increased in the order of VA >BA = VB = PB =AB > SB > HB > control > GB. Only valproic acid 
significantly inhibited the growth of CHO cells compared to the control (p < 0.05). Previously, the effects 
of amino acid-based esters on penetration of the cell membrane were studied. The transport of amino 
acid-based esters can be facilitated by a Na+/Cl--coupled amino acid transporter in mammalian cells and 
Xenopus oocytes (14). Oligo-peptide carriers on cell membrane were also reported to help the intestinal 
transport of low-permeability compounds when designing amino acid-based prodrugs (15). Coupling 
poorly permeable drugs with an α-carboxyl group of amino acids as esters can improve their 
bioavailability and safety (16). 
 Among the benzyl compounds, benzyl alcohol, glycine-benzyl ester, and valine-benzyl ester 
exhibited better stimulation of M-CSF production than other tested esters. Furthermore, alanine-benzyl 
ester had minimal enhancing effects on M-CSF production. Hydroxy-proline-benzyl ester, owning an 
extra hydroxyl group compared to proline-benzyl ester, had weaker stimulatory effects than proline-benzyl 
ester. The results indicated that a slight conformational change on the amino acids had great impacts on 
recombinant protein production. Valine-benzyl ester had the best stimulating effect on M-CSF production 
among the tested esters. Previously, the valine ester had the fastest transport rate among several amino 
acid-based esters examined in an epithelial model (17). The reason for the fastest transport rate is due to 
the higher affinity of valyl esters for peptide transporters. Based on this paper, the best enhancing effect of 
the valine-benzyl ester in CHO cells might have been due to the higher transport rate compared to that of 
benzyl compounds. Modification of benzyl alcohol by amino acids can reduce its toxicity at a 0.5 mM 
level as indicated in Fig. 1. The delivery of benzyl compounds into cells was also accelerated with the aid 
of amino and/or peptide transporters (14, 15). In addition, CHO cells have intracellular esterase activity 
(18), which can hydrolyze ester bonds between the alcohol and amino acid and release the amino acid and 
benzyl alcohol into the cytoplasm. Effects of 0.5 mM valine-benzyl ester on cell growth and glucose 
consumption during the entire culture are demonstrated in Fig 2. Inhibitory effects of valine-benzyl ester 
on glucose consumption in CHO cells were not significant compared to the control culture. Additionally, 
the fact that cells with valine-benzyl ester addition were similar to the control indicated the safety of 
valine-benzyl ester at a 0.5 mM level. To our knowledge, this is the first study reporting that benzyl 
alcohol and it amino acid esters can enhance recombinant protein production in CHO cells.  
 Valproic acid and sodium butyrate are histone deacetylase inhibitors that can enhance gene 
expression in CHO and HEK cells (11). In this study, valproic acid was found to enhance M-CSF 
production by CHO cells. However, valproic acid was the most toxic compound to CHO cells compared 
to the tested benzyl compounds (Fig. 1). Benzyl alcohol is a useful solvent which is naturally produced by 
many plants and is also a precursor to a variety of esters used by industry. Recently, benzyl alcohol was 
found to generate histone H4 acetylation across the slo promoter region in Drosophila melanogaster using 
chromatin immunoprecipitation and a real-time polymerase chain reaction (19). Sodium butyrate, a 
putative inhibitor of histone deacetylase, also induced similar histone acetylation in tested fruit flies. 
According to this important paper, benzyl alcohol and its derivatives may act as inhibitors of histone 
deacetylase and enhance the M-CSF production in CHO cells. However, further investigation is needed to 
confirm their inhibitory abilities toward histone deacetylase in CHO cells. The apparent effects of the 
histone deacetylase inhibitor on cell growth and protein production are linked at the molecular level. 
Deacetylase inhibitors reduce removal of acetyl groups from lysine residues in the amino-terminal tails of 
histone, causing the remodelling and hyperacetylation of chromatin. Hyperacetylation of histone leads to 
changes in transcriptional regulation of genes involved in the control of cell-cycle progression. 
Sequentially, inhibitors cause growth arrest in the G1 and/or G2 phases in virtually all transformed cell 
 9 
1. Mohan, C., Kim, Y. G., Koo, J., and Lee, G. M.: Assessment of cell engineering strategies for 
improved therapeutic protein production in CHO cells. Biotech. J., 3, 624-630 (2008). 
2. Fox, S. R., Patel, U. A., Yap, M. G. S., and Wang, D. I. C.: Maximizing Interferon-γ production 
by chinese hamster ovary cells through temperature shift optimization. Biotechnol. Bioeng., 85, 
177-184 (2004). 
3. Lee, J. C., Kim, D. Y., Oh, D. J., and Chang, H. N.: Long-term operation of depth filter perfusion 
systems (DFPS) for monoclonal antibody production using recombinant CHO cells: Effect of 
temperature, pH, and dissolved oxygen. Biotechnol. Bioproc. Eng., 13, 401-409 (2008). 
4. Yamaji, H., Sakai, K., Joho, T., Izumoto, E., and Fukuda, H.: Cell cycle analysis of Chinese 
hamster ovary cells stimulated by phosphatidic acid in serum-free culture. J. Biosci. Bioeng., 98, 
487-489 (2004). 
5. Liu, C. H., Chu, I. M., and Hwang, S. M.: Enhanced expression of various exogenous genes in 
recombinant chinese hamster ovary cells in presence of dimethyl sulfoxide. Biotechnol. Lett., 23, 
1641-1645 (2001). 
6. Liu, C. H. and Chen, L. H.: Promotion of recombinant macrophage colony stimulating factor 
production by dimethyl sulfoxide addition in Chinese hamster ovary cells. J. Biosci. Bioeng., 103, 
45-49 (2007). 
7. Liu, C. H. and Chen, L. H.: Enhanced recombinant M-CSF production in CHO cells by glycerol 
addition: Model and validation. Cytotechnology, 54, 89-96 (2007). 
8. Allen, M. J., Boyce, J. P., Trentalange, M. T., Treiber, D. L., Rasmussen, B., Tillotson, B., Davis, 
R., and Reddy, P.: Identification of novel small molecule enhancers of protein production by 
cultured mammalian cells. Biotechnol. Bioeng., 100, 1193-1204 (2008). 
9. Kruh, J.: Effects of sodium butyrate, a new pharmacological agent, on cells in culture. Mol. Cell. 
Biochem., 42, 65-82 (1982). 
10. De Leon Gatti, M., Wlaschin, K. F., Nissom, P. M., Yap, M., and Hu, W. S.: Comparative 
transcriptional analysis of mouse hybridoma and recombinant Chinese hamster ovary cells 
undergoing butyrate treatment. J. Biosci. Bioeng., 103, 82-91 (2007). 
11. Backliwal, G., Hildinger, M., Kuettel, I., Delegrange, F., Hacker, D. L., and Wurm, F. M.: 
Valproic acid: A viable alternative to sodium butyrate for enhancing protein expression in 
mammalian cell cultures. Biotechnol. Bioeng., 101, 182-189 (2008). 
12. Finnin, M. S., Donigian, J. R., Cohen, A., Richon, V. M., Rifkind, R. A., Marks, P. A., Breslow, 
R., and Pavletich, N. P.: Structures of a histone deacetylase homologue bound to the TSA and 
SAHA inhibitors. Nature, 401, 188-193 (1999). 
13. Gorecki, M., Acquaye, C. T., and Wilchek, M.: Antisickling activity of amino acid benzyl esters. 
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U S A., 77, 181-185 (1980). 
14. Hatanaka, T., Haramura, M., Fei, Y. J., Miyauchi, S., Bridges, C. C., Ganapathy, P. S., Smith, S. 
B., Ganapathy, V., and Ganapathy, M. E.: Transport of amino acid-based prodrugs by the Na+ and 
Cl- -coupled amino acid transporter ATB0,+ and expression of the transporter in tissues amenable for 
drug delivery. J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther., 308, 1138-1147 (2004). 
15. Nielsen, C. U., Andersen, R., Brodin, B., Frokjaer, S., Taub, M. E., and Steffansen, B.: 
Dipeptide model prodrugs for the intestinal oligopeptide transporter. Affinity for and transport via 
hPepT1 in the human intestinal Caco-2 cell line. Journal Control Release, 76, 129-138 (2001). 
16. Ganapathy, M. E. and Ganapathy, V.: Amino acid transporter ATB0,+ as a delivery system for 
drugs and prodrugs. Curr. Drug Targets Immune. Endocr. Metabol. Disord., 5, 357-364 (2005). 
17. Sawada, K., Terada, T., Saito, H., Hashimoto, Y., and Inui, K. I.: Recognition of L-amino acid 
ester compounds by rat peptide transporters PEPT1 and PEPT2. J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther., 291, 
705-709 (1999). 
18. Cook, J. A. and Fox, M. H.: Intracellular pH of Chinese hamster ovary cells heated at 45.0 oC at pH 
6.6. Radiat. Res., 115, 96-105 (1988). 
19. Wang, Y., Krishnan, H. R., Ghezzi, A., Yin, J. C. P., and Atkinson, N. S.: Drug-induced 
epigenetic changes produce drug tolerance. PLoS Biol., 5, 2342-2353 (2007). 
20. Marks, P. A., Rifkind, R. A., Richon, V. M., Breslow, R., Miller, T., and Kelly, W. K.: Histone 
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
23/09/2009 
Annual meeting 
of the Society 
for 
Biotechnology, 
Japan. L-valine 
esters a novel 
small molecular 
enhancer for 
recombinant 
protein 
expression in 
Chinese hamster 
ovary cells 洪德
鎧、溫竣傑 劉繼
賢 
專書 0 0 0% 章/本  
專利 申請中件數 0 0 0% 件  已獲得件數 0 0 0%  
技術移轉 
件數 0 0 0% 件  
權利金 0 0 0% 千元  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
碩士生 0 0 0% 
人次 
 
博士生 0 0 0%  
博士後研究員 0 0 0%  
專任助理 0 0 0%  
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
獲得獎項 
18/06/2010 2010 第八屆台塑關係企業應用技術研討會 洪德鎧 劉繼賢 Poster 
competition award 
 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
