 - 2 -
and warehousing, hypermarkets, and department 
stores. An observation study from the warehouse of 
the transport industry by Baril-Gingras and Lortie 
(1995) found that nearly half of the handling 
operations involved horizontal efforts like pushing 
and pulling. This implies the importance of these 
tasks as a mode of dealing with musculoskeletal 
disorders. As much as 20% of all overexertion 
injuries have been ascribed to push and pull 
activities by NIOSH (1981). Though the exact 
magnitude of the contribution of push-pull activities 
in the rise of overexertion injuries is not clear, it can 
be logically interpreted to have risen from before 
(Kumar 1995). 
    To avoid the incidence of overexertion, it is 
recommended to establish normative data of a 
human being’s push and pull strengths for designing 
reasonable tasks to match capability. Many studies 
have made large efforts toward the development of 
isometric push and/or pull strength data (Kroemer 
1974, Ayoub and McDaniel 1974, Chaffin et al. 
1983, Fothergill et al. 1992, Kumar 1995), and have 
indicated that strength output depends on a complex 
interaction of variables, such as posture, brace, 
exertion height, number of hands, foot placement, 
worker’s anthropometry, and shoe/floor friction. 
Among these, the most important factor found from 
previous studies is related to the exertion height. In 
general, the horizontal strengths decreases as the 
vertical displacement from the floor increased, and 
also decreases as the operator moves closer to the 
floor. Maximum push and/or pull strengths are 
highest when the point of application of force is 
believed to be between shoulder and hip heights 
(Ayoub and McDaniel 1974, Chaffin et al. 1983, 
Kumar 1995). 
     With regard to the exertion height, horizontal 
distance is still insufficiently documented for 
push/pull strengths. While lifting, increased 
horizontal distance would significantly decrease the 
force output since a longer moment arm resulted in 
more loading imposed on the lower back. Push and 
pull strengths are defined as the exertion of a force 
by a person on an object, the resultant force of 
which is directed horizontally (Hoozemans et al. 
1998). That is, different horizontal positions may 
cause relative consistent moments acting on the 
body joints. A recent field study observed that the 
obstacles (e.g., goods for sale) were often stacked 
up on floor in front of the shelves for economizing 
the storage space (Chen 2008). This would make the 
handlers more difficult to get close to the objects as 
would be possible for pushing or pulling. Whether 
the changes in postures due to different horizontal 
distance affects the maximum horizontal force 
outputs needs further clarification. 
In this study, therefore, we collected and 
compared the push and pull strengths of thirty 
Taiwanese male participants under 64 task 
combinations, consisting of 16 exertion heights and 
4 horizontal distances. Furthermore, participants’ 
step-length from each exertion test was recorded for 
interpreting the corresponding strength data. 
 
METHODS 
 
Participants 
 
Thirty Chinese male participants with no prior 
history of any musculoskeletal disorder volunteered 
for this study and received an hourly wage for 
finishing all test conditions. They were recruited 
from university students. As shown in Table 1, the 
means and SDs (Mean [SD]) were a) age: 23.3 (2.9), 
b) stature: 173.3 (5.6) cm, and c) weight: 70.3 (15.1) 
kg. Their basic and anthropometric data were then 
recorded and measured. 
 
 - 4 -
0
5
10
15
20
10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 130 140 150 160
Exertion heights (cm)
Pu
sh
 / P
ull
 st
ren
gth
s (
kg
)
Push_10cm
Push_20cm
Push_30cm
Push_40cm
Pull_10cm
Pull_20cm
Pull_30cm
Pull_40cm
Experimental procedure 
 
All participants were familiarized with the 
experimental procedures and stretched themselves at 
least 10 min before the data was collected. During 
the experiment the participants wore light clothing 
and rubber gym shoes. They were randomly 
requested to perform all maximum strengths in a 
specific task, consisting of exertion height and 
horizontal distance with free style, without ever 
losing their balance. During all tests, each 
participant’s feet were allowed to be apart; that is, 
one foot was to be in front of the other. Participants 
were encouraged to adjust their postures until they 
had achieved that stance which they believed would 
permit the greatest push/pull force capability. A 
period of 5 s was chosen as sufficient time to build 
up and maintain a constant force, while being brief 
enough to be endured without perceiving any 
muscular fatigue. A minimum rest period of 2 min 
was required between successive trials. 
 
Statistical analysis 
 
While determining the horizontal strength, we 
analyzed the data using a factorial design, as well as 
an analysis of variance (ANOVA), for independent 
variable examination, and Duncan’s Multiple-range 
test (Duncan’s MRT) for post-hoc comparisons. 
Each participant was considered a block. 
Differences in participants’ push and pull profiles 
were checked by t-test. An alpha level of 0.05 was 
selected as the minimum level of significance.  
 
RESULTS 
 
Summary ANOVA 
 
Table 2 shows the ANOVA result summary of 
push and pull strengths under different independent 
task variables. Exertion height, as found in a 
previous study, significantly influenced both push 
and pull force magnitudes (p<0.001). However, 
horizontal distance only caused different pulling, 
but did not effect the pushing strengths. Figure 2 
illustrates the force profiles of push and pull under 
64 different task combinations. Duncan’s MRT also 
revealed that lower strengths were disclosed in the 
highest or the lowest height levels, regardless of 
push or pull tests. The push strengths were 11.69 
and 13.03kg, and the pull strengths were 7.39 and 
10.26kg at heights of 160 and 10cm, respectively. 
Oppositely, when averaged across all horizontal 
distances, the higher push strengths at heights of 
50–130cm, ranging from 15.83 to 17.20kg, revealed 
no differences among them (p>0.05). The pull 
strengths also can be observed with a similar 
tendency. The Duncan’s MRT grouping of the 
maximum pull strengths ranged from 30 to 90cm 
and with forces of 13.76 – 15.12kg (p>0.05). Unlike 
the marked effect of the height on strengths, the 
horizontal distance only negatively affected the pull 
strengths while performing at a horizontal distance 
of 40cm. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2.  The push and pull force profiles in this study 
 
 
 - 6 -
pushing, the participants tended to adopt a more 
lean-forward posture (Chaffin et al. 1983), both 
pivoting about the rearward foot and using the 
forward leg as additional weights to increase the 
forward turning moment. The benefit of the 
lean-forward posture enlarged the push force output 
with the increase of the horizontal distance, and 
even the posture and straddle became more 
constrained in the meantime. This can explain why 
the horizontal distance did not significantly 
influence the push strengths. As to pulling at lower 
heights (below 90cm), the rearward foot was placed 
in a position to easily stop the body from falling 
backward if the person’s forward foot were to slip, 
as was also observed by Chaffin et al. (1983). 
However, the advantageousness of this 
stop-mechanism gradually disappeared as the 
pulling heights were increased. 
 One main objective of the previous studies 
which had developed the horizontal strength 
capabilities was to find the optimal working range in 
heights. In general, maximum push and pull 
strengths is highest between the shoulder and the hip 
heights. Ayoub and McDaniel (1974) requested that 
the subject’s elbows and rearward knee be kept 
straight, and found that the optimal height for a 
handle to be pushed or pulled should be 
approximately 91 to 114 cm. Another study by 
Martin and Chaffin (1972), in which the subjects 
were instructed to have an unconstrained posture, 
resulted in an optimal height range from 50 to 90cm. 
By a biomechanical and dynamic approach, Gagnon 
et al. (1992) suggested that the medium height 
(99cm) was more recommended than the ones at 58 
and 141cm when pushing loads onto shelves. In this 
study, the exertion heights that the maximum push 
and pull strengths were observed to have ranged 
from 50 to 130cm and from 30 to 90cm, respectively. 
In each range, there was no statistical difference 
which existed among the heights that were 
examined by the Duncan MRT. This means that 
when taking push and pull tasks into consideration, 
the best heights for such activities would be 50 – 
90cm. This working range is well-matched to that of 
Martin and Chaffin (1972). It should be noted that a 
very high-traction flooring surface was used by the 
study of Martin and Chaffin. Even so, the suggested 
working height range was similar. This may imply 
that difference in friction levels of floors could 
significantly affect the magnitudes of the force 
outputs rather than the height effect. 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
 
This study shows that the push and pull forces 
developed under a simulated epoxy floor (μ=0.48) 
were pronouncedly lower than the previous results. 
Previous investigations usually examined the push 
and/or pull strengths by bracing the lower 
extremities or setting up a high-traction floor. 
However, this may not reflect the realistic condition. 
The friction level of the floor simulated in this study 
was sampled from the Taiwanese hypermarkets. The 
optimal working heights for both push and pull tasks 
in this study ranged from 50 to 90cm (between 
about the knee and the hip). The findings of the 
study can be used for job redesigning and the 
arrangement on the goods shelves. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
1. Ayoub, M. M. and McDaniel, J.W., 1974, Effect of 
operator stance on pushing and pulling tasks, AIIE 
Transactions, 6, 185-195. 
2. Baril-Gingras, G. and Lorite, M., 1995, The handling 
of objects other than boxes: univariate analysis of 
handling techniques in a large transport company, 
Ergonomics, 38, 905-925. 
