2行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
「知識分類與管理系統之績效評估-決策類型和任務型態對系統績效
的影響」
The Effect of Task Complexity and System Functionality on
Knowledge Management System Performance
計畫編號：NSC 94-2213-E-007-029
執行期限：94 年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 7 月 31 日
主持人：陳鴻基 教授 清華大學科管所
中文摘要
本研究提出一個以群聚演算法為基礎的知識(文件)管理系統，除了用客觀的
績效評估指標，如正確率、喚回率及系統處理時間來比較不同演算法間的效率及
效果外，並以實驗室實驗法來比較傳統分類搜尋機制與本研究所提出之分類搜尋
機制作一使用者認知的比較分析。在客觀的績效評估指標上，本研究提出之文件
分類系統(中文)不論在正確率、喚回率及系統總處理時間上取得很大的進步。
本研究並提出一個以使用者認知角度為出發點的績效評估模式來做為我們
的研究架構，其中任務複雜度與系統功能性為兩個自變數，而使用者認知的易用
性、有用性及使用者資訊滿意度為應變數，代表一個搜尋過程中，使用者感受到
的系統績效。所以本研究目的為 1)了解任務複雜度對於系統績效的影響；2)了
解系統功能性對於系統績效的影響; 3)任務複雜度與系統功能性之間的交互作
用是否對系統績效有影響。
在本研究實證資料分析結果，只有系統功能性(即比較傳統與本研究所提出
的分類搜尋機制)對於使用者認知的系統績效有顯著的影響。雖然任務複雜度在
本研究中沒有顯著的影響，在研究限制與未來研究建議中，我們仍就實驗設計與
任務難易認定上提供一些意見予往後有興趣於相關課題的研究者。
關鍵字: 知識管理系統、群聚演算法、任務複雜度、科技-任務適配度。
Abstract
In this study, a proposed document (knowledge) management system based on a
text-mining technique was tested in an experiment manner. Two independent variables,
task complexity and system functionality, are chosen. Thus, the main goal of this
study is: 1) to understand how different level of task complexity would affect the
system performance; 2) to understand how different system functionality would affect
the system performance; 3) to understand how the interaction effect of task
complexity and system functionality on the system performance. The proposed
system was measured in comparing with another classification algorithm in efficiency
and effectiveness manners. Experimental results show that system functionality
significantly influence system performance perceived by users. Although another
effect of task complexity on system performance is not significant, we still discuss the
research limitations and provide some suggestions to overcome them for future
experiments and researchers.
4Besides machine side performance, we try to evaluate the system performance
from user perception perspective. Arising from Technology-Task Fit (Goodhue &
Thompson, 1995), this study focus on two important factors including tool
functionality and task characteristics. In light of the Technology-Task Fit, in the
information retrieval phase, the knowledge worker fetches the related information
they need according to the task specified. However, task characteristic doesn’t include
the task complexity dimension in the model. Thus, it causes some problems to TTF
explanation ability. We argue that task complexity should be considered when design
an information system. Because information retrieval activities vary from task
characteristics, for example, complicated task (ill-defined, multi-path, multi-outcome)
is more complicated than simple task (well-defined) in its cross-domain knowledge,
experience, and intellectual requirement (Gallupe, 1985; Shaw,1932). It is obviously
that we should consider different task complexity when build up document
management system. Meanwhile, this study examines the effect of task complexity on
the proposed document management system. Eventually, we combine the system
functionality (as referred to cluster-based document management) and task
complexity to construct a research (evaluation) model to examine the system
performance in our experiment.
Thus, the main goal of this study will be: 1) to implement a new document
system based on a cluster-based approach; 2) to understand how different task
complexity would affect the system performance; 3) to understand how different
system functionality would affect the system performance; 4) to understand how the
interaction effect of task complexity and system functionality on the system
performance.
Related Studies on Cluster-based document management systems
With the rise of Knowledge Economy, knowledge management has received
intensive attentions. From the perspective of organization, the most controllable
knowledge is what can be codified to document (Elias, 2002). With the help of IT,
digitized document library become feasible and reasonable than paper-back document
library. However, without appropriate knowledge classification mechanism,
knowledge base could encounter identical problem as World Wide Web did; too much
information and too many documents. Information Retrieval, known as the most
aggressive field, brings up useful approaches to solve the problem. Document
categorization and document clustering were the most common approaches of
document classification, is to deal with huge document collections. Generally
speaking, categorization is to reallocate documents into predefined sets of categories
under certain rules. With the learning mechanism or some predefined rules, new
documents will be categorized into some categories. Unlike categorization approach,
clustering approach does not need those predefined categories or rules and focus on
the relationship between documents (refer to Table 1 for comparison between two
approaches). The most commonly used clustering algorithm is hierarchical algorithm
(Hideki, 1990; Kaufman, 1999). Hierarchal clustering creates a tree with all
documents in the root node and a single document in each leaf node. The intervening
nodes have multiple documents and become more and more specialized as they get
closer to the leaf nodes. Hierarchal clustering is useful when we are exploring a new
document collection and want to get a handle on the overall contents of the collection.
It also provides drill-up and drill-down features cluster to cluster. The characteristics
of clustering algorithm discussed above motivate us to improve a clustering algorithm
6terms with the same meaning in order to compute similarity correctly. Figure 5 shows
the example of synonym term sets. With the use of trained dictionary, we could
segment the document in a precisely and timely manner.
Figure 1. The process of segment sub-procedure.
…..今天 陳水扁總統 表示……
after segmenting, this paragraph will be recorded as following:
…..今天 陳 水 扁 總統 表示……
as we can see“陳 水 扁”has not yet been recognized as a new term.
Figure 2. The example of segment.
Tri-gram records the frequency of the co-occurrence of terms. When the frequency
is greater than our threshold, a new term (陳水扁總統) will add to our dictionary.
陳 水 扁: 67
水 扁 總統: 45
陳水扁總統 (new term added)
Figure 3. The demonstration of tri-gram sub-procedure.
陳水扁:{阿扁總統;陳水扁總統;陳總統;民進黨主席……}
…
A flexible ability to add/delete/modify the synonym term sets is available in the
system setting. This could be the biggest effort to construct a semantic context in the
document collection in our proposed system.
Figure 4. The demonstration of synonym term sets.
8Figure 5. The proposed clustering algorithm process.
3. Similarity computation
Similarity measures treat each document as a set of words, usually with
frequency information, and measure the degree of word overlap between documents.
In clustering algorithm, the documents are constructed in sparse vectors. The length of
the vectors represents the number of unique words. Each component of the vector has
a value reflecting the occurrence of the corresponding word in the document. In our
study, we adopted the most popular similarity measure, as known the cosine measure.
Figure 6 demonstrates the expression of cosine similarity.
Figure 6. Cosine similarity measure expression (d:document; w:unique word)
4. Document collections (corpus)
We obtain the Chinese document collections (around 3,000 pieces of news; each
Upon inserting new
documents,
categorization
approach will be
utilized to
determine which
cluster the
document belongs.
Recursive process
takes place in all
built clusters to
generate the
sub-clusters when
needed.
If similarity of a
document to any built
cluster is not over the
threshold we set, this
document will be put
into the un-cluster
block.
10
Table 2. System process time (sec) based on number of documents and ram.
512M-ram 1024M-ram 2048M-ram
20 docs 5.68073 6.28504 6.30912
40 docs 11.8345 9.82570 9.55496
60 docs 17.3240 12.8366 12.7834
100 docs 30.1396 22.1744 21.1378
1118 docs 1608.18 1020.13 1004.89
segment 166.312 167.374 164.257
Literature Review on Task Complexity and TTF
1. Task complexity
McGrath classified task purposes into four dimensions, including generate;
choose; negotiate; and execute (1984). The most common task purpose is choose,
faced by all of us in daily life. There are two types of task in this dimension, including
intellective task and decision-making task (Ling et. al, 1996). The most discrepancy
between intellective and decision-making task is the former one holds a standard
solution, but decision-making task seeks a better solution. To complete those tasks
need user or a group of users to think, compute, and then make a choice. In our study,
we select intellective and decision-making tasks from choose dimension as our
controlled task type. Bystorm (1995) conducted a qualitative method for the effect of
task complexity on information seeking and use. As task complexity increases; 1) the
complexity of information needed increases; 2) the success of information seeking
decreases; and 3) the needs for domain information increases. The concept of task
complexity has attracted intensive attentions in several research fields, particularly in
the information system development based on the view of cognitive and goal setting.
Task complexity, based on previous studies, could be classified from the level of
subjects to subject into three schemes: 1) Primarily Psychological Experiences; 2)
Person-Task Interaction; and 3) Subject Task Characteristics. Psychological
experiences have emphasized the psychological dimensions of the task, such as task
significance and the feelings of variety, feedback, autonomy that were experienced by
task-doers. March and Simon (1958) identified three subject qualities that contribute
to complexity: 1) complex tasks are characterized by unknown or uncertain
alternatives; 2) complex tasks are characterized by unknown and inexact means-ends
combinations; and 3) complex tasks could be divided into several independent
subtasks. Researchers also proposed high cognitive demands as an attribute of
complex task (Compbell et. al, 1986), because these demands arise from the nature of
task and not from the characteristics of the individual. Interestingly, researchers who
take task complexity as primarily a psychological experience or person-task
interaction never ignore subject task characteristics. We believe that subject task
characteristics are easily manipulated in an experimental setting. Thus, researchers set
up an experiment and examine what they are interested from different perspectives.
Based on the contributors of task complexity, we summarize important description
about simple and complex task in Table 3. In our study, four search tasks performed in
our experimental setting. Search task we mentioned here is referred to an assigned
piece of work often to be finished within a certain time, e.g. an information retrieval
12
The evaluation involved the comparison of two systems:
1. The conventional classified and search features. (Yahoo News website)
2. The cluster-based document management system. (experiment system)
Each subject uses each of the two systems in a randomized order. The interface
demonstrations of both systems were illustrated in Appendix. Users are at the center
of our evaluative framework and the systems are evaluated from the users’perspective.
We put our emphasis on user’s perception of search (as is information retrieval)
success, rather the actual outcome of the searches. Doing so, we can compare how
effective users felt the systems were. We make use of a within-subjects experimental
design (Miller, 1984). We use simulated information needs in our scenario to
investigate the performance of each system for different level of complexity of task.
For example, one subject will complete task 1(according to the scenario) on Yahoo
News and then complete task 2 on the experimental system. This method intends to
control individual variability. When using within-subject experiment, one threat to the
validity of results is that learning effect may take place form the first test to the
second, then inflating the second test scores. However, we don’t have to consider it as
a significant issue because all the subjects were familiar with the Web browser
interface and had previously used keyword/term to search information in the website.
Search tasks used in the experiment were not identical to prevent learning effect we
concerned. The second threat to within-subject approach is the homogeneity of the
subjects. The action of course we take here is sampling the subjects from the students
of National Tsing Hua University, including undergraduate and graduate. To do so, we
could make sure the homogeneity of the subjects (more details will be available on the
following section).
2. Research framework
In order to evaluate the performance of our document management system, we
proposed a conceptual framework. Task complexity and System functionality are the
independent variables in this study. Dependent variables are described as following.
Tasks varied with level of complexity consist of 1) simple; and 2) complex described
in experiment scenarios. System performance will be measured by three variables 1)
perceived ease of use; 2) perceived usefulness; and 3) user information satisfaction.
Those three variables in our study stand for perceived system performance.
Therefore, the conceptual framework of this study will be illustrated in Figure 7.
14
Table 4. All experiment combinations.
Task-complexityIndep. Var.
Indep. Var. Simple Complex
Conventional
classified and
search feature E 1-1 E 2-1
System
functionality
Cluster-based
document
system
E 1-2 E 2-2
The whole process of within-subject experiment design will be demonstrated in
Figure 8.
16
In this experiment, three dependent variables were used to measure system
performance from user perception: 1) ease of use; 2) usefulness; and 3) user
information satisfaction. All the questionnaires were adopted from the literature; the
list of items is listed in Appendix.
3. Research Hypotheses
The proposed document management system is proposed to solve the problem
that flourishing document volumes. The motivations for this system design comes
from the belief that if users could see more keywords that highly related to their query
they could find more relevant documents and perceive higher system performance.
The research framework is dedicated to test the hypotheses and evaluate the system
performance on two systems (system functionality); Yahoo News and cluster-based
document management system and task complexity; simple and complex task. Based
on the purpose of this study and the nature of cluster-based document management
system, three research hypotheses are addressed as below:
 H1: Different task complexity on system performance has a significant
difference.
 H2: Different system functionality on system performance has a significant
difference.
Data analysis
Fifty subjects take part in the formal experiment, and 68% were male; education
consists of two categories: undergraduates and graduates; the subjects have a very
high level of computer experiences, and over 50% is between 6 to 10 years; the figure
shows over 50% of the subjects were intensive search engine users; Interestingly, the
major purpose of using search engine was to inquiry product information. Writing a
report and news are almost the same proportion. Profile of subjects demonstrate a
strong support to ensure the homogeneity of the experiment sample due to our within
subject experimental design.
1. Reliability and validity
Reliability can be defined as the degree to which the items are free from error;
therefore, yield consistent result. Practically, reliability is defined as the internal
consistency of a scale, which measure the degree to which the items are homogeneous.
(Cronbach, 1951). Cronbach’s alpha is a widely used measure of internal consistency.
If the alpha coefficient is greater than 0.70, the scale is considered reliable. As in
Table 8, all the Cronbach’s alphas are greater than 0.7.
2. Hypotheses test
In this section, we try to examine the effect of two independent variables (task
complexity and system functionality) on system performance have a significant
difference. We exploited two-factor ANOVA to test the hypotheses.
18
relevance, sufficient document provided in a timely manner). Based on our result, the
cluster-based document management system outperforms the conventional
keyword/term search feature and receives higher perceived system performance. Our
results also show that users are satisfied with their retrieval documents, complete their
task with less effort, and access most of the relevant documents with fewer submitted
quires.
Our study shows that the effect of task complexity on system performance is not
significant. This result is not congruent with previous works related with task
complexity on performance (Shifflett, 1972; Rou, 2002; Chen, 2003). Such
incongruent may arise from 1) the level of task complexity in the experiment can not
be perceived correctly. 2) With no real outcome is required, subjects take care all the
tasks in the same way no matter the level of task complexity they feel. 3) The sample
size is too small to make it significant. Research limitations about sample, search
habit, and experiment task scenarios will be further discussed in the following section.
Research Limitations
The subjects in the experiment are all students considered as familiar with
computer operations, especially in information search method. Thus, the sample
representative lacks the ability to generalize in public population. Due to the
document collections in our system are all news documents (from Yahoo News).
Therefore, we choose Yahoo News website as a comparative system. However, there
are many kinds of News sources, including other News websites, News forums, and
BBS. To request subject to use the Yahoo News may violate their usual practices. That
will be a major concern, and latent bias can not be measured in our study.
To sum up, the proposed cluster-based system is just one of the systems that
provide the clustered feature. There are many systems with specific features would be
developed in the near future. Because those features are dedicated to solve certain
problems faced by user, our research result may not be inferred to other competitive
systems. All the tasks and scenarios are designed follow previous work in Information
retrieval field. Due to the limitation of our Chinese document collections (corpus);
however, the search tasks in our study is so limited to certain topics. Under such
circumstance, the complexity level may not be perceived precisely by the subjects.
References
Chinese:
1. Papows, J., “eNetprise.com”, 1998, “十六定位”, 大塊文化, 1999.
2. 戴榮賦, “知識回饋機制與取得方式的結合對知識管理服務品質之影響”,國立中正
大學資訊管理研究所碩士論文, 2000.
3. 呂丰君, “非同步網路學習下任務型態與困難度對合作學習績效與滿意度之研究”, 
國立中正大學資訊管理研究所碩士論文, 2002.
4. 陳泳成, “以修正後的科技接受模式 探討影響「使用者自建系統接受」之因素”, 國
立中山大學資訊管理研究所碩士論文, 2003.
5. 賴宏仁,”電子報個人化新聞推薦方法之研究”, 國立中山大學資訊管理研究所博士
論文,2000.
English:
6. Baystrom, K. and Jarvelin K., “Task complexity afects information seeking and use”, 
Information Orocessing and Management, 31, 1995, pp. 191-213.
7. Brooking, A., “The Management of Intelectual Captital”, Journal of Long Range
