chronic diseases. Next, using these screening factors 
the Ada-boot procedure with LDA method was applied to 
execute the classification of different chronic 
diseases and constructed the early warning criteria 
for evaluating the different diseases. Criteria offer 
an early warning to healthy people or chronic 
patients to aid them in perceiving the signs of 
illness before symptoms emerge. In terms of the early 
warning criteria, weighted sum squared residual 
(WSSR) and joint angle analysis (JAA) methods were 
then used so that the system could automate to 
monitor the changes of physiology conditions and 
evaluated the risks in different chronic diseases. 
The results exhibited that classifying materials and 
diagnosing different disease situations are both 
positively efficient with a corrected rate of 80%. 
Moreover, through the monitoring system of early-
warning criteria, not only can we help patients 
understand the risks of suffering from such diseases, 
but also effectively offer superior diagnosis 
reference criteria for medical personnel. 
英文關鍵詞： Chronic Illnesses, Sequential Forward Selection 
(SFS), Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA), Weighted 
Sum Squared Residual (WSSR), Joint Angle Analysis 
(JAA) 
 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
應用資料分類與控制原理架構慢性疾病警示與監控系統 (II)
Using data classification and control methods for constructing the
monitoring system in chronic illness (II)
中文摘要
根據衛生署的統計，慢性疾病已經是台灣地區的主要死亡原因(例如：心血管疾病
(cardiovascular disease)、糖尿病(diabetes mellitus)、高血壓(hypertension)、肝病(disease of the
liver)和腎臟病(renal disease)等)。由於這些慢性疾病長期影響生理機能且不易察覺，當身體發
生明顯不適時，往往已經造成生理嚴重的損害並導致醫療資源沉重的負擔。因此本研究的目
標是使用健檢資料以及相關病歷來架構四種慢性疾病(高血壓、心血管疾病、糖尿病、腎臟病)
的預警系統。本研究資料來自於北部某醫學中心，首先前饋式搜尋法(SFS)配合線性鑑別式分
析(LDA)被使用篩選疾病的風險因子。接下來這些被篩選的因子，使用Ada-Boot程序搭配LDA
理論執行不同慢性疾病的分類並且架構疾病預警準則。這疾病預警準則可提供正常人以及慢
性病患輔助的參考，同時這準則配合 WSSR 及 JAA 理論可進行生理狀況變動的自動監控以及
病況的辨識。透過不同病況條件的模擬，這個系統可以達到 80%以上的正確率。除此以外，
透過這個監控系統不僅可以讓病人了解罹患其他併發症的風險，而且也提供醫護人員一個有
效的疾病評估準則。
關鍵詞：慢性疾病、前饋式搜尋法(SFS)、線性鑑別式分析(LDA)、權重平方差和(WSSR)、整
合角度分析(JAA)
Abstract
According to the statistics of the department of health (DOH), the chronic illnesses (such as
cardiovascular/cerebrovascular disease, diabetes mellitus, and high blood pressure and so on.) have
become the primarily fatal reasons in Taiwan. Because these illnesses are generally long-term to
affect the physiological function and does not be easily nosed out, when the body exhibits a
significant symptom that has usually generated a serious harm and induces the heavy load in
medical resources. Therefore, the objective of the research was to use the data of health
examination and the related anamnesis to establish a monitoring system for four chronic illnesses
(hypertension, cardiovascular disease, diabetes mellitus, and renal disease). The research samples
were collected from a medical center and compared with the data of healthy people. Firstly, the
sequential forward selection (SFS) and linear discriminant analysis (LDA) were applied to screen
the risk factors for classifying the different chronic diseases. Next, using these screening factors the
Ada-boot procedure with LDA method was applied to execute the classification of different chronic
diseases and constructed the early warning criteria for evaluating the different diseases. Criteria
offer an early warning to healthy people or chronic patients to aid them in perceiving the signs of
illness before symptoms emerge. In terms of the early warning criteria, weighted sum squared
residual (WSSR) and joint angle analysis (JAA) methods were then used so that the system could
automate to monitor the changes of physiology conditions and evaluated the risks in different
chronic diseases. The results exhibited that classifying materials and diagnosing different disease
situations are both positively efficient with a corrected rate of 80%. Moreover, through the
monitoring system of early-warning criteria, not only can we help patients understand the risks of
suffering from such diseases, but also effectively offer superior diagnosis reference criteria for
3. The classification result of step 2 would be applied to construct the diseased classification
criteria.
4. Using the classification criteria of step 3 with WSSR and JAA method, the early-warning
system can be established and it can also implement the illness symptoms to be
automatically evaluated.
In terms of aforementioned description, the objective of the research was to use the data of
health examinations and case histories to uncover some risk factors and constructed the classified
criteria so as to discriminate the different chronic illnesses. Next, these risk factors with the
classification criteria and WSSR method would be used to monitor the related chronic illnesses.
Moreover, the system can also utilize JAA algorithm to forewarn the different risk symptoms.
Therefore, the early-warning system will be hoped that can lead to detecting these chronic illnesses
earlier and to adopting a suitable therapy so that patients can reduce the risk of suffering from the
related complications, as well as to achieving a simultaneous decrease in the cost of therapy.
2. THE FRAMEWORK OF THE PROPOSED METHOD
In figure 1, the operating steps firstly applied LDA with the classified accuracy rate to screen
the risk factors and establish the initial set of risk factors for individual chronic illness. Next, LDA
with SFS was used to expand the set of risk factors so that the different chronic illnesses could be
successfully distinguished. Using these risk factors, the Ada-boot procedure with LDA method was
then used to execute the illness classification and combined WSSR and JAA methods to construct
the early-warning system. Finally, the early-warning system would be analyzed and compared to
the classified and diagnostic efficiency for verifying the system feasibility.
Firstly, LDA with the classified accuracy is
used to construct the initial set of risk
factors for different chronic illnesses.
LDA with SFS procedure is utilized to
expand the set of risk factors for
hypertension, cardiovascular disease,
diabetes mellitus, and renal disease.
Using these risk factors, the Ada-boot
procedure with LDA method is applied to
implement the classification in different
chronic illnesses.
In terms of the classified results, the
WSSR and JAA methods are combined to
construct the early warning system.
Figure 1: Flow chart of the proposed system
2.1 COMBINING SFS WITH LDA AND ADABOOT PROCEDURE FOR SCREENING THE
RISK FACTORS AND CONSTRUCT THE CLASSIFICATION CRITERIA IN
DIFFERENT CHRONIC ILLNESSES
When the data were normally distributed with equal covariance matrices, then the optimal decision
rule is a linear threshold and assigns x to 1Group if 00  cc wxw where )( 21 mmSw  Wc
and  2)()( 21210 mmSmm Wcw ))()(log( Group12Group  pp .
Using the operation in aforementioned SFS with LSD algorithm, the risk factors could be
obtained. Next, the system would combine Adaboot procedure with these risk factors to implement
the classified task for evaluating different chronic diseases. The Adaboot is an improved
procedure so as to strengthen the classification efficiency that the primary objective is to use the
combinations of classifier procedures to improve an inferior classifier. Herein, the )(xth was
assumed to belong to a LDA classifier. The operating steps were described as follows:
1. Given a training set },{ ii yx , ni ,2,,1  and initialize nini ,,2,1,1  .
2. For Tt ,2,,1  (T is the maximum number of iterations).
3. Train a weak classifier )(xth from the training data with weight i, ni ,2,,1  .
4. Calculate the error te as the sum of weights i corresponding to misclassified patterns



iit yhi
ite
)(x
 .
5. If 5.0te or 0te , then terminate the step. Otherwise, set ))1(log(21 ttt ee (the
operation is to hope that it can use a smaller error rate and a bigger updating weight to execute
the classifier operation in next iteration).
6. Update t and set the misclassified patterns ttii ee )1(  . Then normalize i so that
1
i
i .
2.2 USING WSSR AND JAA TO MONITOR AND TO EVALUATE THE DISEASED
CONDITIONS
In this section, the WSSR and JAA were used to monitor and to evaluate the diseased situation.
According to the classified result of Adaboot procedure, the early-warning threshold () of WSSR
algorithm could be constructed for four chronic illnesses. The WSSR concept was introduced
for monitoring the changes in different disease conditions (see Willsky 1976, and Tzafestas and
Watanbe 1990). This algorithm is based on the residual sequence that can be shown as:
ttt YYe ˆ (4)
In equation (4), tY is the output vector of risk factors and tYˆ is the vector of standard value for
risk factors. If the disease monitoring is operating normally, the te sequence is a zero mean of
white noise with the covariance matrix tR . Therefore, the WSSR can be described as follows:



t
ntj
tttn
1
1eReN (5)
Equation (5) is a chi-squared random variable with pn degrees of freedom, where ]dim[ tp Y .
When the diseased situation has changed, the statistical properties of te are changed and the
detection rule for the disease monitoring can be formulated as:
was to use the LDA algorithm so as to find the most significant risk factor and established an initial
set of screening factors for individual chronic disease. Next, SFS procedure with LDA was used to
seek the other risk factors. If the other single factor was added to the initial set of screening factors
and it could increase the classification performance, then this factor was regarded as the second risk
factor and was added to the set of screening factors. Repeating the seeking step, the set of screening
factors would be gradually expanded until all factor combinations were executed completely.
According to the seeking result, systolic pressure and diastolic pressure were the important risk
factors of four chronic illnesses simultaneously. In views of this consideration, a close relationship
seemed to exist between the hypertension and other chronic illnesses. Table 1 showed the related
risk factors for four chronic illnesses. Using the results of Table 1, it could be found that systolic
pressure and diastolic pressure combined with fasting plasma glucose and urine glucose to be
indicators of diabetes mellitus. Cardiovascular disease could also be indicated by systolic pressure,
diastolic pressure, cholesterol, triglycerides, and urea nitrogen. Moreover, systolic pressure,
diastolic pressure, urea nitrogen, and creatinine were also used to diagnose renal disease.
Table 1: Screening risk factors for the related chronic diseases
The related chronic
diseases
The screening risk factors
Hypertension
Systolic pressure, diastolic pressure, cholesterol, and the disease
symptoms (e.g. giddiness, stiff of neck, and so on)
Diabetes mellitus
Systolic pressure, diastolic pressure, fasting plasma glucose, and urine
glucose
Cardiovascular
disease
Systolic pressure, diastolic pressure, cholesterol, triglyceride, and urea
nitrogen
Renal disease Systolic pressure, diastolic pressure, urea nitrogen, and creatinine
Using the screening risk factors, Adaboot procedure with LDA algorithm was then used to
implement the classifications of chronic diseases via [training samples, test samples] = [50％, 50％].
From simulated result, we could find that the accuracy rate could exceed 80% when the classified
procedure was mainly aimed at the single disease. Moreover, if four chronic illnesses were
simultaneously implemented the classified procedure then the accuracy rate would be reduced to
73.51% (see Table 2). Using the analysis by related cases, it could be sorted out as two major
situations: 1. the cardiovascular disease patients generally exhibit a higher blood pressure; 2.
cardiovascular disease patients also have higher clinical test values for cholesterol and triglycerides.
In terms of the above error analyses, it can be found that hypertension patients have a higher
probability of developing other complications (such as diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease,
and renal disease), and the result also conforms to the description of previous literature. Thus, high
blood pressure is an important clinical symptom. When the classification procedure is operated, the
hypertension will be first classified and analyzed in order to prevent the error evaluation rate from
rising substantially.
Table 2: Classification results of Adaboot procedure
Disease
classification
AdaBoot
classifier of type
I error
AdaBoot
classifier of
The accuracy
rate of AdaBoot
classifier
The accuracy
rate of LDA
classifier
change of disease situation was generated on the 100th run. Moreover, in this simulation, we
assume that between new measurement vector of risk factors ( newX ) and the standard vector of risk
factors ( valuestandardX ) a slight difference of 0
~
d and 0
~
d ~ )0.001,0( 2N is exhibited. Because this
simulated case has four chronic diseases, the diseased signatures can be defined as: ]00,0,1,[
~0
1 f ,
]00,1,,0[
~0
2 f , ]01,0,,0[
~0
3 f and ]10,0,,0[
~0
4 f . The change situation in each chronic
illness was simulated based on the simulation results of 200 runs each and 150 simulation cycles, as
well as the performance statistics, including: Type I error and Type Ⅱ error. Tables 4-5 show the
simulation results returned by using WSSR with JAA algorithm under the influences of disease
changes. In terms of simulation results, we found that the WSSR and JAA are indeed able to
achieve the effect of monitoring when the patient generated a change of disease situation from the
different chronic illnesses. In particular, the early-warning system used the WSSR method that also
exhibited increasingly excellent evaluation performances when the patient had a higher difference
from the related risk factors.
Table 4. The performance of WSSR detection
Jδ Type I error Type II error
0.1 0.012 0.0042
0.3 0.0101 0.0025
0.5 0.0087 0.0018
0.9 0.0051 0.001
1.3 0 0
1.5 0 0
Table 5. The performance of JAA judgment for four chronic diseases
Jδ The fault rate
of Hypertension
The fault rate of
Diabetes mellitus
The fault rate of
Cardiovascular
disease
The fault rate of
Renal disease
0.1 0.0173 0.0285 0.0243 0.0186
0.3 0.0102 0.0182 0.0156 0.0109
0.5 0.0074 0.0113 0.0104 0.0093
0.9 0.0031 0.0064 0.0041 0.0038
1.3 0 0 0 0
1.5 0 0 0 0
4. CONCLUSION
The research was to screen and to classify the data of clinical tests and symptoms so that the
system could evaluate the different chronic illnesses. The early-warning system was constructed
that first applied LDA with SFS procedure to seek the important risk factors. In terms of these
screening factors and the Adaboot procedure with LDA method, we could execute the classified
procedure and established the early-warning criteria. To strengthen the automated diagnostic
performance, this system also integrated WSSR and JAA algorithms so as to monitor and defined
the different diseased conditions. Using the system’ssimulation results, the findings of this
research can be summarized as follows:
1. Using the proposed operational procedure, the early-warning system can obtain a superior
performance for monitoring and diagnosing in chronic illnesses. Moreover, the Adaboot
Systemic Blood Pressure and other Components of the Metabolic Syndrome. Ultrasound in
Medicine and Biology, 31(3), 293-299.
Tzafestas, S. and Watanabe, K. (1990) Modern Approaches to System/Sensor Fault Detection and
Diagnosis, Journal A, 31, 42-57.
Willsky, A. S. (1976) A Survey of Design Methods for Failure Detection in Dynamic Systems,
Automatica, 12, 601-611.
Yang, Y. and Liu, X. (1999) A Re-Examination of Text Categorization Methods. Proceedings of the
22nd Annual International ACM-SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in
Information Retrieval, 42-49.
Yoon, S. and MacGregor, J. F. (2001) Fault Diagnosis with Multivariate Statistical Models PartⅠ:
Using Steady State Fault Signatures, Journal of Process Control, 11, 387-400.
會議中提高與會者的共鳴與參與感。因此本人報告的過程中，關於慢性疾病的
分類與監控技術演算法的描述與會人員很少對於相關問題提問。而大部分的問
題集中在，如何使用大量的病人生理檢測值去架構醫療資訊系統，以及如何進
行系統模擬等。而這次報告的 session，大約 20人參與。報告內容主要針對慢
性疾病預警監控系統如何進行疾病分類、定義、與監控進行研究。所以在這個
報告的 session 中，與會的教師與研究生主要針對實務醫療資訊來源提出詢
問。雖然未對本人報告的理論與演算法提出質疑，但針對這個醫療管理系統在
現有實務醫療體系中如何應用與操作有著濃厚的興趣，也期望有一個較深入的
了解。由於各國醫療產業的運作狀況差異很大，使得相關醫療系統管理面上較
難解釋台灣現有的醫療狀況。因此花了不少時間去解釋提問者的問題，這對本
人來說有點手足無措，但就英文口語練習來說，這個部份是會議收穫最大的地
方。
三、考察參觀活動（無是項活動者省略）
無。
四、建議事項
此次在日本北海道札幌市所舉辦的 BAI研討會有非常多的人數參與，由
於日本這個地區主要是使用日語溝通與漢字的國家，因此對於來自台灣的我們
不論在生活或是交通的便利性都相當令人滿意。除此以外，日本的治安良好所
以在旅程安全上較不需擔心。因此這個地區所舉辦的研討會，因不需有較多人
身安全的顧慮，值得鼓勵更多計畫主持人及研究生參與。而藉由這個國際大型
研討會的參與，除對使用英語報告有更多的國際經驗外，也可透過不同國家學
者的交流，在生活與文化上有更深一層的了解。
五、其他
攜回資料名稱及內容
1. 大會議程與學會簡介
2. 研討會發表文章摘要 (書面)
3. 研討會文章內容
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/07/09
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 應用資料分類與控制原理架構慢性疾病警示與監控系統(II)
計畫主持人: 任志宏
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-262-023- 學門領域: 服務系統與科技管理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
