at increasing utilization of low vision products. 
Two experiments were conducted in the present study. Experiment 1, the effect of 
shape, size, and chromaticity of stimuli on participants’ error ratios when estimating the 
area of simultaneously presented standard and comparison stimuli was examined. 
Participants were divided into low-vision, severely myopic, and normal vision groups. 
Analysis showed that the error ratio for estimated area was significantly greater for 
those in the low-vision group than for those in the normal vision and severe myopia 
groups. No significant difference was found between the normal vision and severely 
myopic groups. The error ratios were significantly greater with green and blue stimuli 
than when the stimuli were red. Circular stimuli produced a smaller error ratio than did 
square stimuli. Additionally, the actual area of the standard stimulus significantly 
affected the error ratio for the estimated area. Error ratios for estimations using smaller 
areas were significantly higher than when the areas being used were larger.  
Experiment 2, the effects of velocity (3, 5, and 7 cm/sec), stimulus color (red, 
green, and blue), and background luminance (20–80% white, in increments of 15%) on 
minimal legible size of dynamic Chinese characters, were examined. Participants were 
asked to recognize the stimulus Chinese characters, which were presented with varying 
velocity on a screen. Analysis showed that the minimal legible size was significantly 
greater for those in the low-vision and severely myopic groups than for those in the 
normal-vision group, and the minimal legible size for the low-vision group was greater 
than that for the severely myopic group. The minimal legible size was significantly 
greater when the stimuli were green than when they were red. A higher ratio of white in 
the gray background yielded a smaller minimal legible size than did a lower ratio of 
white. Additionally, a velocity of 3 cm/sec resulted in lower minimal legible size than 
did a velocity of 7 cm/sec. Results may have applications in graphics-based interface 
design, such as that found on iPhones and PDAs, and in the design of various types of 
remote controls, particularly when taking account of visually impaired users.  
 
Keywords: visually impaired people, area estimated, recognition threshold, dynamic  
 Chinese character 
 
 
Introduction 
 
In Taiwan, the Physically and Mentally Disabled Population Survey reported that 
between 2000 and 2008, the number of people with a visual impairment rose from 
approximately 38,747 to 55,569, and during the same period, the number of people with 
low vision increased by 43.4% [1]. According to demographics from the 2000 US 
Census, an estimated 2.4 million Americans (1.98%) had low vision in that year, and it 
 1
serves to enhance the perceived contrast, which has the effect of sharpening the 
contours of the target and facilitating its detection [18]. A good deal of research has 
found that luminance contrast significantly affects visual performance or target 
detection [16,19,20]. Huang [16] demonstrated that raising the luminance contrast 
significantly improves an icon’s legibility when its size is smaller. Recently, Lin and 
Huang [20] suggested that luminance contrast significantly affected visual perception 
time, showing that visual perception time decreased with increasing luminance contrast 
ratio.  
 
Target velocity  
People increasingly need to read dynamic text presented on computers and 
electronic displays in public places [21]. Dynamic visual acuity has been found to be 
related to performance in pursuing a moving target, including events involving sports, 
driving, and watching animations [22,23]. It is affected by target parameters including 
target luminance, target velocity, and duration [24]. Several studies have found that 
acuity in college-aged observers is largely unaffected by target motion at velocities 
below about 60 °/s [25,26].  
 
Although previous studies have explored the effects of some variables on area 
estimated, visual performance or recognition, participants in these studies have mostly 
been normally sighted. The present study aimed to extend the findings regarding the 
effects of these on area estimated and recognition threshold, i.e., legible minimal size, to 
people with low vision. Two experiments were conducted in the present study. 
Experiment 1, the effect of shape, size, and chromaticity of stimuli on participants’ error 
ratios when estimating the area of simultaneously presented standard and comparison 
stimuli was examined. Experiment 2, the effect of velocity, stimulus color, and 
background luminance on minimal legible size of dynamic Chinese characters was 
explored.  
 
Experiment 1:  
Effect of shape, size, and chromaticity of stimuli on the error ratio for estimated area in 
normally sighted, severely myopic, and visually impaired subjects 
 
Method 
 
Subjects  
Participants were divided into low-vision, severely myopic, and normal-vision 
groups according to their visual acuity and experience. The low-vision group included 
10 women and 6 men aged 20–24 years recruited from Tamkang University and 
 3
time. The adjusted area of the comparison stimulus was recorded by the computer. The 
subjects repeated the procedure until all 18 stimulus comparison tasks were completed. 
For each participant, the experiment was completed in a single session of approximately 
10 minutes duration.  
 
Data Analysis 
The percentage of estimated error was defined as (SA - CA)/SA, where SA is the 
area of the standard stimulus and CA is the area of the comparison stimulus. The 
percentage of estimated error was recorded as a positive value if the area of the standard 
was larger than the area of the comparison stimulus, and as a negative value if the 
standard area was smaller than the comparison stimulus. Data were obtained for 18 
trials and entered into the analysis of variance, which was carried out using SPSS. 
 
Results 
The main effect of subject group on error ratio for estimated area was significant 
(F2,39 = 5.15,  p = .01). Multiple comparisons showed that the error ratio for estimated 
area in the visually impaired group (M= -6.22, SE= 0.99) was significantly greater than 
were those for the normally sighted (M= -1.94, SE= 0.99) and severely myopic groups 
(M= -2.91, SE= 0.99). No difference was found between the normal vision and severe 
myopia groups. Analyses identified a main effect for stimulus color on error ratio for 
estimated area (F2,78 = 4.15, p = .02). The results suggest that the error ratio for 
estimated area for green (M= -4.04, SE= 0.69) and blue stimuli (M= -4.04, SE= 0.63) 
was significantly greater than that for red stimuli (M= -3.01, SE= 0.52). However, no 
difference was found between green and blue stimuli. 
A main effect on error ratio was also identified for stimulus shape (F2,78 = 4.37, p 
= .02). Furthermore, comparisons showed that circular stimuli (M= -2.77, SE= 0.69) 
resulted in lower error ratio for estimated area compared with square stimuli (M= -4.29, 
SE= 0.67); however, no significant difference was found between circular and triangular 
stimuli (M= -4.00, SE= 0.59) or between triangular and square stimuli. A main effect on 
the estimated area error ratio was observed for area of the standard stimulus (F2,39 = 6.93, 
p < .01), with the small-area standard stimulus (M= -6.24, SE= 0.99) yielding a greater 
estimated area error ratio did than the large-area standard stimulus (M= -1.04, SE= 0.99). 
However, no difference was found between the small and medium (M= -3.78, SE= 0.99) 
areas or between the medium and large areas. Moreover, the main effect of saturation on 
estimated area error ratio was not significant (F1,39 = 60.31, p = .58). No two-way 
interactive effects were found in the present study. 
 
Discussion 
 
 5
Shape of Stimulus  
It was found that subjects’ error ratio for estimated area was smaller for circular 
stimuli than for square ones. This result could be interpreted using the information 
integration theory, which is dedicated to the judgment of rectangular area [28,29]. Leon 
[30] hypothesized that participants might use a single dimension (i.e., the diagonal), 
which has never been provided and must to be constructed visually to estimate 
rectangular areas; he suggested that subjects made no reference to an integration process. 
However, Rulence-Paques and Mullet [29] suggested that participants used the 
information concerning height and width of the area and then integrated these two items 
by additive or multiplicative operations [28]. Therefore, the area estimated might be 
affected by a combination of cues taken from both the horizon line and the relative 
height [31].  
 
Stimulus size  
 The size of the standard stimulus significantly affected the error ratio for estimated 
area in this study. A small standard stimulus area resulted in a greater error ratio than did 
a large standard stimulus area; however, no significant differences were found when the 
small- and medium-area or the medium- and large-area standard stimuli were compared, 
revealing that the larger the area was, the lower the error ratio for estimated area was 
likely to be. We suggest that a larger area of the standard stimulus may have resulted in 
a greater visual angle for participants seeing the stimulus from a fixed viewing distance, 
so that the stimuli might have been seen more clearly. However, these results are in 
conflict with Weber’s law (∆I/I = k) which says that the size of delta I is a constant 
proportion of the original stimulus value (I). In practice, this may be problematic 
because the psychophysical relation between perceived and physical magnitudes is 
generally nonlinear for area [32].  
 
Experiment 2: 
Effects of color and background luminance on minimal legible size of dynamic Chinese 
characters presented on a LCD monitor for low-vision and normally sighted users 
 
 
Method 
 
Subjects  
Participants were identical to the Experiment 1. 
 
Stimulus Materials and Design 
    The experiment investigated three independent variables: background luminance, 
 7
Minimal legible size was analyzed in terms of character size measured in points 
(one point measures 0.35 mm). Data were obtained for all 15 trials and entered into the 
analysis of variance, which was carried out using SPSS. 
 
Results 
The main effect of subject group on minimal legible size was significant (F2,39 = 
28.68,  p < .001). Multiple comparisons showed that the minimum legible size in the 
visually impaired group (M= 30.41, SE= 1.94) was significantly greater than that for the 
normally sighted (M= 9.80, SE= 1.94) and severely myopic groups (M= 17.94, SE= 
1.94). Moreover, the minimal legible size for the severely myopic group was greater 
than that for the normally sighted one. Analyses identified a main effect of color of 
character on minimal legible size (F2,78 = 3.69, p = .03). The results suggest that the 
minimal legible size for blue characters (M= 20.10, SE= 1.10) was significantly greater 
than were those for red (M= 18.56, SE= 1.04) and green characters (M= 19.49, SE= 
1.35). However, no difference was found between blue and green characters or between 
green and red ones. 
A main effect of minimal legible size was also identified for velocity (F2,39 = 3.71, 
p = .03). Furthermore, comparisons showed that a velocity of 3 cm/sec (M= 16.11, SE= 
1.94) resulted in smaller minimal legible size compared with 7 cm/sec (M= 23.45, SE= 
1.94); however, no significant difference was found between 3- and 5-cm/sec (M= 18.59, 
SE= 1.94) or between 5- and 7-cm/sec conditions. A main effect of minimal legible size 
was observed for background luminance (F4,156 = 42.62, p < .001); a higher level of 
white in the gray background (80% white and 20% black) yielded a smaller minimal 
legible size than did a higher level of black (20% white and 80% black). The means of 
minimal legible size of these five levels (from level 1 to level 5) were 25.00 (SE=1.51), 
20.35 (SE=1.48), 19.33 (SE=1.32), 16.55 (SE=0.92), and 15.69 (SE=0.71), respectively. 
Moreover, significant differences were found among the five levels (level 1 to level 5) 
of background luminance, the means and standard error of these five levels were   
The results also showed two two-way interactive effects. The first was a significant 
interaction between subject group and background luminance (F8,156 = 10.86, p < .001) 
on minimal legible size. Minimal legible size varied across the different subject groups, 
as shown in Figure 1. These data imply that the minimal legible size for those with a 
visual impairment is significantly larger than is that for those with severe myopia or 
normal vision, regardless of background luminance.  
 
 9
significantly affects the minimal legible size of characters, with significantly larger 
minimal size required for legibility in the visually impaired group (30.4-point) 
compared to the severe myopia (17.9-point) and normal-vision (9.8-point) groups. 
These results are consistent with our expectation and similar to the suggestions of Arditi 
and Cho [33] and Lueck et al. [34], indicating that those with low vision might benefit 
from larger letter sizes. We suggested that subjects with lower visual acuity would need 
much larger character sizes to gain enough visual reserve [34] to make it possible for 
each stroke of the stimulus character to be identifiable from the others, which is 
necessary to recognize the stimulus character accurately. For subjects were with greater 
visual acuity, the minimal legible sizes of stimulus characters were smaller. But if visual 
acuity were the only important factor affecting minimal legible size, it might be 
expected that there would be no difference of minimal legible size between the 
low-vision and severely myopic groups, because the visual acuity of subjects within 
these two groups was similar in the present study. The difference of minimal legible size 
between these two groups might be a result of subjects’ previous reading experiences, 
which may have had effect on their identification procedures.  
 
Stimulus Color 
The results of this study show that stimulus color significantly affects minimal 
legible size. Minimal legible sizes were larger when the stimulus character was blue 
than when it was red or green; however, no difference was found between the red and 
green stimuli. One possibility is the relative sensitivity of three cone photoreceptor 
types, called short-, medium-, and long-wavelength cones, are different, which indicates 
that the human eye’s sensitivity to long- and medium-wavelength hues (red and green 
characters) is very much greater than its sensitivity to short-wavelength hues (blue 
characters) [35]. In addition, the long- and medium-wavelength cones are concentrated 
in the fovea, their density declining gradually with increasing eccentricity; however, 
short-wavelength cones are concentrated just outside the fovea and then decline 
gradually in density with increasing eccentricity [36].  
 
Velocity of Stimulus 
The velocity of stimuli characters significantly affected the minimal legible size in 
the present study; as the velocity of the stimulus character increased, so did the minimal 
legible size. This result was consistent with the findings of previous studies, including 
those of Long and Johnson [37], Long and Garvey [17], and Long and Crambert [26], 
showing that subjects were able to resolve markedly smaller targets at lower velocity 
than at higher velocity. Two explanations have been offered for these results. First, a 
decrease in the apparent contrast of stimulus characters occurs when they are moving 
rapidly, which would be expected to be similar to the effects of increased target angular 
 11
research review. Journal of Visual Impairment & Blindness, 101(7), 402-415. 
[4] Joynson, R. B., Newson, L. J., & May, D. S. (1965) The limits of overconstancy.  
Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology, 17, 209-216. 
[5] Sanders, M. S., & McCormick, E. J. (1993) Human factors in engineering and  
design. New York: McGraw-Hill. 
[6] Loftus, G. R., & Harley, E. M. (2005) Why is it easier to identify someone close than  
far away? Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 12, 43-65. 
[7] Cutting, J. E., & Vishton, P. M. (1995) Perceiving layout and knowing distances:  
The integration, relative potency, and contextual use of different information about  
depth. In W. Epstein & S. Rogers (Eds.), Handbook of perception and cognition, 
Vol 5: Perception of space and motion (pp. 69-117). San Diego, CA: Academic 
Press. 
[8] Kopacz, J. (2003) Color in three-dimensional design. New York, NY:  
McGraw-Hill.  
[9] Swirnoff, L. (2003) Dimensional color. New York, NY: W. W. Norton & Company,  
Inc.  
[10] Morriss, R. H., Dunlap, W. P., Fritchie, C. J., & Curran, J. E. (1995) Effects of  
relative area on matching heterochromatic stimuli for saturation. The Journal of  
General Psychology, 122(2), 159-170. 
[11] Legge, G. E., & Rubin, G. S. (1986) Psychophysics of reading IV: Wavelength  
effects in normal and low vision. Journal of the Optical Society of America A. 3,  
40-51. 
[12] Bodrogi, P. (2003) Chromaticity contrast in visual search on the multi-color user  
Interface. Displays, 24, 39-48. 
[13] Huang, K. C. (2008) Effects of computer icons and figure/background area ratios  
and color combinations on visual search performance on an LCD monitor.  
Displays, 29, 237-242. 
[14] Pastoor, S. (1990) Legibility and subjective preference for color combinations in  
Text. Human Factors, 32(2), 157-171. 
[15] Shieh, K. K., Chen, M. T., & Chuang, J. H. (1997) Effects of color combination 
 and typography on identification of characters briefly presented on VDTs.  
International Journal of Human-Computer Interaction, 9(2), 169-181. 
[16] Huang, S. M. (2007) Legibility of small icons with color combinations in small  
Displays. Perceptual and Motor Skills, 104, 191-200. 
[17] Long, G. M., & Garvey, P. M. (1988) The effects of target wavelength on dynamic  
acuity under photopic and scotopic viewing. Human Factors, 30, 3-13. 
[18] Bridger, R. S. (2009) Introduction to Ergonomic. New York, NY: Taylor & Francis,  
Pp. 385-386. 
[19] Loomis, J. M. (1990) A model of character recognition and legibility. Journal of  
 13
