 2
sumption. Three accomplishments have been achieved: (1) 
the employment of a bi-directional flow control mech- anism, 
which is realized by osmosis, to adjust the con- centrations 
of protein solutions and promote the growth of protein 
crystals as desired; (2) a comprehensive scheme that highly 
extends the screening ranges of crystallization conditions for 
each protein assay; and (3) a rapid and effective protein 
crystallization system that grows protein crystals in hours 
with only microgram sample consumption. As such, this 
osmotic system pioneers a new class of rapid screening 
schemes for high-through-put protein crystallization. 
 
Figure 1: A simplified 2-dimensional phase diagram 
 
 
Figure 2: Structure of the osmotic screening system: (a) 
and (b) cross-sectional views of an unit and an array, 
respectively, and (c) top view of an array 
 
OPERATION PRINCIPLE 
Protein crystals are usually grown from non-equilibrium 
super-saturated solutions, which contain more of the 
dissolved proteins than could be dissolved by the solvents 
under normal circumstances. The dissolved proteins do not 
immediately leave solutions and convert to stable solid- 
phase particles as soon as the solubility limits are exceeded.  
Instead, a certain amount of activation energy is required to 
initiate the formation of solid state. At higher super- 
saturation, which corresponds to an increased energy state of 
the system, there is higher probability that critical nuclei will 
form spontaneously in solution. Under such circumstance, 
additional tiny nuclei will continue to form, while the 
growth of existing nuclei remains at a relatively lower rate. 
On the other hand, stable nuclei may grow in less super- 
saturated solutions, in which nuclei will rarely spon- 
taneously form. The distributions and ranges of these 
regions, in which proteins exhibit very different crystal- 
lization behaviors, are best illustrated by a simplified phase 
diagram as shown in Figure 1. In a phase diagram, on the 
vertical axis is the protein concentration of solutions, and 
along the horizontal axis is the value of a parameter, such as 
precipitant concentration, pH, or temperature, which affects 
the protein solubility in solutions. For example, as the 
concentration of precipitant increases, it usually causes a 
reduction in protein solubility. Although the labile and 
meta-stable regions are separated by a line in the figure, they 
are actually regions defined by the probability of spon- 
taneous nucleus formation. In reality, there is no physical 
discontinuity or distinguishable boundary between these 
regions. Furthermore, the location and area of these two 
regions vary noteworthily between different protein 
solutions. Currently, no general method except trial-and- 
error is available for locating these regions. In order to grow 
protein crystals, the first task is therefore to effectively 
identify the location of the labile and meta-stable regions in 
the phase space. 
When screening for crystallization conditions, protein 
concentration is gradually raised above the solubility limit to 
promote the nucleation and growth of protein crystals in the 
sampled solution. In the most popular hanging drop scheme, 
separate protein and reference solutions are enclosed in the 
same chamber. Over the crystallization process, water (in 
vapor form) is driven from protein solution to reference 
solution because of the concentration difference between 
them. The final state of the screening is pre-determined and 
the process is uncontrollable once it proceeds. For our new 
scheme shown in Figure 2, protein solution and reference 
solution are separated by a semi-permeable membrane, 
which allows only water but not solutes to pass. Since the 
direction and flow rate of water across the membrane (and 
therefore concentrations of the protein solution) can be 
actively manipulated by adjusting the concentrations (and 
therefore osmotic pressure) of the reference solution, the 
new scheme is capable of controlling the crystallization 
process in a real-time manner. The water flow is controlled 
by the combination of several factors, including the 
permeability of the semi-permeable diaphragm, the osmotic 
pressure and the hydrostatic pressure difference across the 
semi-permeable diaphragm. The flow rate of water across 
the semi-permeable diaphragm can be written as the 
following [15]: 
)P(KAJ Δ−πΔσ=  (1) 
where J is the flow rate of water (volume of water 
transported per unit time), K is the permeability of  the 
semi-permeable diaphragm with respect to water, A is the 
effective surface area of the semi- permeable diaphragm, and 
ΔP is the difference of the hydrostatic pressure across the 
semi-permeable diaphragm that has a negative effect on the 
flow rate. An osmotic reflection coefficient (σ) of the 
semi-permeable diaphragm is used to account the outward 
diffusion of the osmotic driving agent through the 
semi-permeable diaphragm. Ideally, σ equals to 1 and no 
solute will diffuse across. On the other hand, Δπ is the 
difference of osmotic pressure across the semi-permeable 
diaphragm that has a positive effect on the flow rate. The 
osmotic pressure, a chemical potential, of a solution can be 
represented as following [15]: 
SiRT=π  (2) 
where S is the concentration of osmotic driving agent, i is 
the number of ions per mole in the solution, R is the ideal 
gas constant, and T is absolute temperature.  Driven by the 
osmotic pressure difference across the semi-permeable 
diaphragm, water will flow out or in to raise or lower the 
concentrations inside the chamber, respectively. 
In addition to water and protein molecules, the sampled 
solutions also contain chemicals such as buffers and 
 4
used for testing. Before the screening, solutions are prepared 
and dispensed manually or by a robotic system into the 
array. 
 
Table I: Crystallization conditions in each of the 48 units on 
a screening plate 
 
 
Table II: Measured flow rates of water (nl/hr) through a 
40-μm-thick semi-permeable membrane with fixed con- 
centration differences across the membrane 
 
 
Table III: Screening conditions and results for the crystal- 
lization of lysozyme 
 
 
 
EXPERIMENTAL RESULT 
Before performing the screening tests, the flow rates of 
water across the fabricated 40-μm-thick semi-permeable 
membrane are first characterized. The result is listed in Table 
II, which indicates that water penetration rates, through a 
membrane with 0.5 M concentration difference across, are 
higher at higher precipitant concentrations. Table III shows 
the screening result of lysozyme samples using the proposed 
osmotic system. The precipitant concentration of reference 
solutions is initially set at 0.5 M and switched to a higher 
value once an hour to maintain continuous draining of water 
out of screening wells. It is observed that after the first hour, 
protein crystals appear in well 1, 2, 4, 15, and 32.  
Afterward, protein crystals are formed in well 3, 6, 13, 22, 
23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 31, 39, 41, and 42 after 2 hours, and in 
well 30, 36, and 43 after 3 hours. Totally, lysozyme crystals 
are found in 21 out of the 48 wells in a screening array.  
Figure 6 shows images of the crystals obtained in the 21 
successful trails. The conditions of these successful trails 
concur with the data revealed by other existing screening 
techniques. In addition to lysozyme, thaumatin samples are 
also screened by the proposed system to verify its 
functionality. In this later case, the precipitant concentration 
of reference solutions is switched once two hours, so the 
crystallization process proceeds at a lower speed. The result 
shows that thaumatin crystals are found in 7 out of the 48 
wells in a screening array. In the crystallization experiment, 
crystals are formed in hours and some of them have 
dimensions larger than 100 μm, which are large enough for 
x-ray diffraction studies. Large crystals are then extracted, 
mounted, flash-froze in cryoloops, and subsequently 
exposed to a laboratory x-ray source. Figure 7 shows a high- 
resolution diffraction pattern for a single lysozyme crystal 
grown in our crystallization experiments. 
 
Figure 6: Images of lysozyme crystals in screening chambers 
after 3 hours 
 
Figure 7: X-ray diffraction pattern from a grown lysozyme 
crystal 
 6
計畫成果自評 
本計畫所開發的滲透式微系統可以快速並且反覆地
篩選大範圍的蛋白質結晶條件，有效降低樣品的需要
量，並能快速產生大小超過100μm，可利用X光繞射儀進
行分析的晶體，以取得蛋白質立體結構的資訊。本系統
已經成功的產生四種蛋白質的晶體，並且利用X光繞射儀
得到結構資訊，日後將進一步透過合作以取得更多樣化
的蛋白質樣本，由實際測試結果逐步改進系統的效能。 
本計畫的成果與規劃相符，成功的開發出滲透式微型
蛋白質結晶條件篩選系統，這是第一個利用滲透作用以
進行結晶條件篩選的微系統，成果已經發表在一篇碩士
學位論文，一篇國際研討會論文(μTAS 2006)，以及一篇
剛完成第一階段審查的SCI期刊論文(J. Micromechanics 
& Microengineering)。在應用上這套微滲透式篩選系統將
可做為一個創新並具有高效能的蛋白質結晶條件篩選系
統，使蛋白質結晶的工作大為簡化，幫助蛋白質功能與
結構研究，以及新藥開發等工作能快速推展。 
