1 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
應用特徵線與影像整合形變於產品感性意象之研究 
Characteristic Lines and Image Morphing for 
Product Perception Research 
 
計 畫 編 號：NSC-96-2221-E-011-001 
執 行 期 限：2007年 8月 1日至 2008年 7月 31日 
主 持 人：陳玲鈴   台灣科技大學工商業設計系 
計畫參與人員：洪偉肯, 邱靈均   台灣科技大學設計研究所 
 
一、摘要 
現有電腦輔助設計工具，著重於最終造形
的精確描述。如何在設計概念階段，以電
腦工具輔助設計師進行概念設計，是一個
重要但缺乏相關研究的議題。本計畫結合
特徵線與影像整合形變於開發電腦輔助概
念設計工具。第一年完成ConceptMorph電
腦輔助概念設計軟體。第二年將
ConceptMorph應用於產品造形特徵替換
及重組，以汽車為例，應用特徵組合配合
聯合分析法，探討感性意象與設計造形特
徵間的關係。本年度將ConceptMorph應用
於設計草圖之快速擬真彩現，以汽車為
例，針對不同程度之彩現方式，探討擬真
程度與所需製作時間的關係、分析整體擬
真度及個別造形特徵呈現之差異。 
 
關鍵詞：電腦輔助概念設計、影像形變、
特徵重組、構想草圖、快速彩現 
 
Abstract 
The current computer-aided design tools 
focus on precise representation of final 
product geometries. How to support 
designers in product concept development is 
an important but little researched topic. In 
this three-year project, we developed a 
computer-aided concept design system by 
integrating image morphing and line 
morphing techniques. During the first year, 
we completed the development of the 
software, called ConceptMorph. During the 
second year, we focused on using 
ConceptMorph in design feature 
compositions and investigated the influences 
of design features on the perceptions of 
automobile styling designs. During this (the 
third) year, we developed a method for rapid 
photorealistic visualization of design 
sketches. By conducting a series of surveys, 
we investigated the relationships between 
the degrees of realism and the required times 
for different visualization methods, and 
compared the differences of the overall 
realism and the accuracy in expressing 
individual form characteristics for the 
various methods. 
 
Keyword: Computer-aided Concept Design, 
Image Morphing, Feature Composition, Idea 
Sketches, Fast Rendering 
 
二、緣由與目的 
目前一般商用電腦輔助設計工具， 
著重於造形的精確描述，對於設計概念
階段的幫助相當低。如何在設計前期階
段，以電腦輔助設計師進行概念設計， 
即「電腦輔助概念設計 (Computer Aided 
Concept Design, CACD)」，仍是一個重要
但缺乏相關研究的議題 (Dijk et al., 
1998) 。在 Tovey and Porter(2004)有關草
圖、概念發展與汽車設計的研究中，即
認為若要開發「電腦輔助概念設計的系
3 
 
圖一 虛擬三維平均車 
 
由於平均車型之虛擬模型具有完整之三
維資訊，因此可以經由旋轉角度而獲得
與設計草圖視角相符之擬真圖像（如圖
二）。 
 
 
圖二 平均車型之不同視角圖像 
 
 
 
四、設計草圖之擬真視覺化 
 
快速擬真視覺化的基本構想是將具有真
實的影像資訊之虛擬平均車型，旋轉到
與 手 繪 圖 相 同 之 視 角 後 ， 再 以
ConceptMorph 將虛擬平均車形變至手繪
圖所定義之車體輪廓造形。形變過程與
步驟如下：於 Concept Morph中，先將所
置入的平均車形 A與手繪圖 D當作欲形
變實驗的影像(如圖三)，之後在各影像上
調整相對等的形變特徵曲線 B 與 E，形
變特徵曲線的描繪依循上述的特徵定義
為製作方式。右側的形變特徵線 E 與手
繪圖 D 在形變之後並不做扭曲與移動，
是將左側的平均車影像 A 扭曲至入右側
的輪廓架構之下，A影像形變後成為影像
C，再調整影像 C 與影像 D 的透明度比
例， 75% C與 25%D。最後所呈現的合
成影像 F 包含了平均車影像的曲面資訊
與右側手繪圖的輪廓特徵。 
 
圖四中所選取的手繪圖於影像與特徵上
是屬於較佳的圖片，呈現出電腦手繪的
漸層效果，但與真實的影像相較之下仍
可以看的出是手繪圖。形變之後的合成
影像於車體表面上有著更多的資訊。圖
四為應用 ConceptMorph於不同手繪圖之
測試結果。 
 
四、擬真程度之實驗測試與分析 
 
本研究主要探討設計師的概念手繪圖，參
考現有文獻，將手繪精細程度定義為四階
段： 
一、單色、一致性的線條、無陰影。 
二、單色、不同粗細線條、無陰影。 
三、單色、不同粗細線條、陰影表現曲面。 
四、線條與陰影，包含色彩與漸層。 
 
5 
 
圖六 擬真度實驗刺激物 
 
表一 
 
 
由於研究受測者必須具備辨識概念手繪
表達能力，實驗受測者包含業界設計師
與國立台灣科技大學大三以上學生。其
中男生 26 人，女生 5 人，共 31 位受測
者。 
 
實驗由 31位受測者對整體及個別造形特
徵呈現進行評分，評分標準以受測者對
圖像的擬真認知做評分，評分範圍為 ±
100。表二為受測者針對二組（各六張）
圖像之擬真程度評分之平均值。 
 
表二 
 
 
 
配合各圖像累計製作時間，繪出各階段
擬真程度與累計時間的相關折線圖，如
圖七、圖八。實驗結果（如圖五）發現，
以 ConceptMorph配合精細程度較高、具
有線條與陰影之手繪圖所產生之彩現
圖，其製作時間約為 1 小時，可以達到
相當良好的擬真效果；電腦三維模型可
以達到更高之擬真程度，但在製作時間
則高達 30倍。 
 
 
圖七 S1車刺激物整體擬真度（Y軸）與
製作時間（X軸）之折線圖 
 
7 
之功能，當能快速產生高擬真度之設計彩
現圖。 
 
五、參考文獻 
 
1. 王鉅富 (2003)，「造形於形變過程中與情感
意象之關係研究－以汽車造形為例」，國立
台灣科技大學設計研究所碩士論文。 
2. 黃柏松 (2004)，「汽車外觀造形設計的復古
表現形式」，國立台灣科技大學設計研究所
碩士論文。 
3. M. Tovey, S. Porter, R. Newman (2003) 
“Sketching, concept development and 
automotive design,” Design Studies, Volume 
24, Issue 2, March 2003, Pages 135-153.  
4. Isaac V. Kerlow, (2006). The Art of 3D 
Computer Animation and Effects, 3rd Edition., 
John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 
 
表 Y04 
第一場是美國 Stanford大學 Larry Leifer教授的 Keynote Speech “Collaboration or 
Coordination: the difference between doing and trying”。Leifer教授首先介紹 Stanford大
學於 2005 年所成立之 Stanford Institute of Design或稱 D School，以 Design Thinking
為核心，整合跨工程、醫學、人文、管理、教育等不同領域研究人員與學生，推動跨
領域之合作與創新。對於跨領域合作，Leifer教授提到 Stanford（及 IDEO）認為需要
推動跨工程、管理、人文之 Comprehensive Design，以克服目前過於專業分化對於設
計教育及實務所造成之限制。Leifer教授並由過去所進行的研究中，提出ㄧ些影響團
隊合作成功之重要影響因素，包括團隊成員之多樣化，溝通問題之類型等。台灣目前
亦積極推動設計、工程、人文跨領域合作，Stanford及 IDEO之相關經驗與嘗試，提
供極為值得參考的資料。 
 
第二場是香港著名設計師 Henry Steiner所發表之 Keynote “FusionCrash”。Henry Steiner
出生於奧地利，於美國長大，而工作、定居於香港，其設計作品，常同時具有西方與
東方之符號與意象。在此次演講中，Henry Steiner以非常多的範例，說明他對於以平
面設計為工具協助跨文化傳達與溝通之看法。他所主張的作法，並非「融合」，而是
同時「並存」與「對比」。他認為前者往往形成失去東西方個別特色之平凡作品，而
後者則能經由獨立特色與互補相映，產生互動之效果。對於如何以台灣既有之文化內
涵，發展創新設計，提供了一些可能的形式，頗值得參考。 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
 
無 
 
四、建議 
 
此次會議中，有多位台灣碩、博士生發表論文，由於語言能力之限制，在論文發表及
聽眾問題之了解與回答上，仍有相當問題。在研究所教育上，恐怕要更加強英語上課
之比重，以增強專業領域之英語聽說能力。 
 
設計領域之相關研究正蓬勃發展，對於國際和亞洲之重要學術組織與會議，台灣必須
積極參與，以期在國際設計相關領域佔有一席之地．  
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
研討會議程資料及論文集光碟片。 
 
 
 
  
for designers to systematically investigate how to manipulate product shapes and features to 
achieve specific perceptual qualities. 
1. INTRODUCTION
Systematic investigation on influences of visual features on the perception of designs is important 
for understanding brand image and aesthetic preference. In the automobile industry, under the 
intense pressure of offering greater product varieties at competitive prices, car companies have 
increasingly employed platform sharing strategy, where different brands and models share the 
same basic platform (van Grondelle and van Dijk, 2004; Heikkilä et al. 2002). Examples of 
automobile platform sharing include the Volkswagen A4 platform, on which the Volkswagen Golf, 
the Audi A3, the Skoda Octavia, and the Seat Toledo were built (Heikkilä et al. 2002); and the B-
Zero project to build Peugeot 107, Toyota Aygo and Citroën C1 (Figure 1) in the same Toyota 
Peugeot Citroën Automobile plant (TPCA, 2007). Although platform sharing enables economies of 
scale and allows car companies to achieve cost-efficiency, the success of this strategy depend on 
sufficient differentiation between car models of different brands. If the perceived images of 
different car models become too similar, they may cannibalize each other’s market share, 
negating the advantages offered by platform sharing. 
 
Figure 1: Peugeot 107, Toyota Aygo and Citroën C1 (Car Body Design 2004) 
Faced with the task of differentiating car models based on a common platform, the task of a 
designer is twofold: at the brand level, the designer needs to continue and strengthen a specific 
brand image; and, at the individual model level, the designer seeks to create novel and distinct 
characters for a car model. The brand and model image can be manipulated by design via the use 
of visual elements (Bouchenoire, 2003; Karjalainen, 2007), which consists of design features to 
identify a brand and design features for specific models to emphasize individuality.  
 2 
  
composition, and to specify or modify product shapes and features using free-hand sketches. 
New product shapes can be generated from either free-hand sketches, or synthesized from 
existing products that are successful in conveying the desired messages. At the feature level, the 
designer can easily add, remove, or replace features on product images, to obtain design 
variations. In addition to simply using features from existing products, the designer can hand-
adjust features of a product while the system maintains the relationship between the feature and 
the rest of the product shape. 
The ConceptMorph program was developed based on a novel image morphing technique that 
integrates image morphing with characteristic lines morphing (Wolberg,1990; Gomes, 1999). 
Every product shape Pi is represented by an image, Ii, and a set of characteristic lines, Li, on the 
image. To obtain a new (destination) product shape Pd, we start by specifying the set of 
characteristic lines Ld that defines Pd. The transformation Wi,d from Pi to Pd is computed from Li 
and Ld, such that, when the image Ii is transformed by Wi,d, the set of characteristic lines Li 
matches the set Ld. Using this scheme, it is possible to synthesize a new product shape Pd from 
any number of source product shapes, Pi, i = 1, …, n. The image Id of the new product shape Pd 
can be computed as:  
Id = ∑i = 1,…,n Wi,d (Ii). 
The set of characteristic lines Ld, which defines the new product shape Pd, can either be 
computed from Li, i = 1, …, n, or be specified/modified interactively by designers. The latter 
enables designers to create new product shapes or modify features on a product by interactively 
drawing the characteristic lines. 
Figure 2 shows the interface of ConceptMorph, where the left and middle windows display the 
characteristic lines (in blue) for the two source images, and the right window displays the 
weighted average of the characteristic lines (Ld, in green).  
 4 
  
4. STIMULUS DESIGN 
Based on an automobile perceptual map (Chen et al. 2003), we selected a new automobile that is 
similar in its form to the automobile near the center in the perceptual map as the base automobile 
for the experiment, so that the automobile projects a fairly neutral image. To eliminate potential 
effects from non-form related factors, such as color and brand, we first cleaned up the image of 
the selected automobile by clearing the background, removing the brand logo emblem, converting 
the photograph to gray scale, and adding shadows below the automobile. 
Four automobile design features – front grill, headlights, overall profile, and side vents – were 
selected for the investigation. To identify representative feature shapes, we collected 118 
automobiles with distinctive design features. For each design feature, we selected the top two or 
three most frequently used shapes as levels for the experiment. This resulted in two different front 
grill shapes (rectangular, triangular), three different headlight shapes (round, triangular, 
rectangular), two overall profiles (smooth and angular), and two levels for side vents (with and 
without), as shown in Figure 3. 
A. Front Grill 
 
A1: rectangular A2: triangular 
 
B. Headlights 
 
B1: rectangular 
 
B2: round 
 
B3: triangular 
C. Overall Profile 
 
C1: angular 
 
C2: smooth 
 6 
  
Table 1: 11 Bipolar Adjective Pairs for Measuring Affective Responses to Automobile Designs 
1. Static – Dynamic 2. Ordinary – Dazzling 3. Exaggerated–Truthful 
4. Uncomfortable–Comfortable 5. Not Cute – Cute 6. Rough – Delicate 
7. Rational – Emotional 8. Complex – Simple 9. Traditional – Contemporary 
10. Immature – Mature 11. Weak – Strong  
 
Thirty subjects participated in the experiment. Half of the subjects are from design background; 
whereas the other half are not. Twelve of the subjects are female and the other eighteen are male. 
All subjects are between the ages of 19–28. The experiment was conducted using the Computer-
Aided Kansei Engineering (CAKE) survey software (Chuang and Chen, 2003). The 24 stimuli 
were shown randomly on the computer screen. The subject then evaluated each stimulus with 
respect to each of the 11 adjective pairs by using a 9-point scale, e.g., extremely rational, very 
rational, quite rational, slightly rational, neutral, slightly emotional, quite emotional, very emotional, 
extremely emotional. The subject marked the level of the affective response according to his or 
her perception about the automobile design. Figure 5 shows the experimental setup.  
  
Figure 5: Experimental Setup 
6. RESULTS 
We analyzed the judgment data on the 24 stimuli with respect to the 11 adjective pairs by using 
the conjoint analysis software in the SPSS Categories module. Using the adjective pair “Static-
Dynamic” as example, the results from conjoint analysis are summarized in Table 2. The utility 
function for “Static-Dynamic” is: 
 8 
  
automobile. 
Table 3: Relative Importance of Design Features on Perception of Automobile Designs 
Adjective Pair Most     
Important  
Second Important Third    
Important  
Least    Important 
Static—Dynamic Side Vents
（31.81%） 
Headlights
（28.20%） 
Overall Profile
（24.78 %） 
Front Grill   
（15.22 %） 
Ordinary－Dazzling Side Vents
（36.35%） 
Headlights
（28.15%） 
Overall Profile
（22.10 %） 
Front Grill   
（13.40 %） 
Exaggerated－Truthful Side Vents
（47.19%） 
Headlights
（21.75%） 
Overall Profile
（18.59 %） 
Front Grill   
（12.47 %） 
Weak－Strong Side Vents
（31.52%） 
Headlights   
（29.41 %） 
Overall Profile
（28.54%） 
Front Grill
（10.53%） 
Uncomfortable－Comfortable Side Vents
（30.23%） 
Overall Profile
（28.78%） 
Headlights   
（26.50 %） 
Front Grill   
（14.50 %） 
Complex－Simple Side Vents
（49.01%） 
Overall Profile
（21.59%） 
Headlights   
（21.45 %） 
Front Grill
（7.95%） 
Traditional－Contemporary Headlights
（35.64%） 
Side Vents
（31.07%） 
Overall Profile
（22.42 %） 
Front Grill
（10.86%） 
Immature－Mature Headlights
（32.58%） 
Side Vents
（28.71%） 
Overall Profile
（23.30 %） 
Front Grill
（15.41%） 
Not Cute－Cute Headlights
（54.79%） 
Overall Profile
（24.03%） 
Side Vents     
(12.91 %） 
Front Grill
（8.27%） 
Rational－Emotional Headlights
（33.73%） 
Overall Profile
（31.69 %） 
Side Vents
（24.61%） 
Front Grill
（9.98%） 
 
For each pair of adjectives, we computed the utility functions to determine the automobile design 
with the two extreme images, and listed the corresponding set of design features.   
Static－Dynamic (Figure 6) 
Most dynamic ＝ triangular front grill + triangular headlights + angular profile + side vents 
Most static ＝ rectangular front grill + round headlights + smooth profile + no side vents 
 
 
 10 
  
 
Uncomfortable Comfortable 
  
Figure 9 
 
Not Cute－Cute (Figure 10) 
Least cute ＝ rectangular front grill + rectangular headlights + angular profile + side vents 
Most cute ＝triangular front grill + round headlights + smooth profile + no side vents 
Not Cute Cute 
  
Figure 10 
 
Complex－Simple (Figure 11) 
Most complex ＝ triangular front grill + triangular headlights + angular profile + side vents 
Most simple ＝rectangular front grill + round headlights + smooth profile+ no side vents 
Complex Simple 
  
Figure 11 
 
 
 12 
  
Weak－Strong (Figure 15) 
Weakest ＝ rectangular front grill + round headlights + smooth profile + no side vents 
Strongest ＝triangular front grill + triangular headlights + angular profile + side vents 
Weakest Strongest 
  
Figure 15 
7. CONCLUSIONS 
In this paper, we reported a method for evaluating the effects of design features on the perception 
of product designs, by using ConceptMorph software for fast and realistic visualization of different 
combinations of design features, and by applying Conjoint Analysis for computing the utility 
functions for the design features.  
We used automobile styling design as an example to evaluate the feasibility of the proposed 
method. We selected four automobile design features – front grill, headlights, overall profile, and 
side vents – for investigation. By using conjoint analysis, we computed the relative importance of 
each design feature on the perception of automobile design, with respect to 11 adjective pairs for 
measuring affective responses. We also provided visualizations of the automobile designs that 
elicit the strongest/weakest responses with respect to each adjective pair. These results provide 
detailed information about how to manipulate design features to achieve specific affective 
responses. 
Finally, we would like to add a cautionary note about applying the method proposed in this 
research to product design. The method focuses on the detail design at the feature levels, which 
should be towards the end of the design process, when the overall shape and character of the 
product has been defined. At that stage, designers could apply this method to fine tune the image 
projected by the product, by trying out different combinations of design features from existing 
products, or from designers’ own creations. However, compositions of design features do not 
constitute a complete design process. To design a successful product, designers must pay 
attention to the design of the whole product, not just to the features. 
 14 
