 I 
摘要 
本研究利用水熱程序在鹼性環境製備出含純矽 MFI 沸石或是非結晶型奈米顆粒之溶液，以製備中
孔洞型低介電常數薄膜(mesoporous low-k films)，研究之目的為製備具有介電常數小於 2 且高機械強度
(硬度大於 1 GPa 且彈性係數大於 10GPa)之低介電常數薄膜。研究中利用 XRD 及 FTIR 分析所製出鍍
膜溶液中顆粒之結晶性，用以探討顆粒結晶性對薄膜性質之影響；利用動態雷射光粒徑分析儀分析鍍
膜溶液中之顆粒的大小。本研究也使用固態 NMR 分析顆粒所含 SiO2 及 SiOH 基團的量，使用氮氣吸
脫附之孔洞分析儀測量樣品的孔洞分佈範圍以及孔洞體積。研究中並使用 SEM 及光學顯微鏡觀察不同
結晶性顆粒之鍍膜溶液所形成薄膜的表面型態。薄膜的介電常數及漏電流則利用電性分析儀器量測，
而機械強度則使用奈米壓痕機(nanoidenter)進行分析。 
 
由本研究結果得知，各鍍膜液中是否含有界面活性劑，對所鍍之薄膜性質有關鍵性的影響。若僅
使用不含界面活性劑的純矽 MFI 沸石或是非結晶型顆粒溶液進行旋轉塗佈程序製膜，所鍍出之薄膜不
是破裂就是表面粗糙。以文獻中兩階段水熱程序(60℃48 小時，100℃36 到 48 小時)所製備之純矽 MFI
沸石溶液為例，添加 Tween 80 界面活性劑後，可以成功鍍膜並能獲得均勻之薄膜，於最適化的條件下，
薄膜介電常數為 1.83、硬度 1.39 GPa、彈性係數 12.3 GPa 以及漏電流密度為 1.35 × 10-7 A/cm2，這些性
質已經符合未來積體電路工業的需求。 
 
為了節省兩階段水熱程序冗長的製程(約需要 156 到 168 個小時)，本研究已研發出一系列單階段的
水熱製程(僅需 27 到 51 個小時)。該製程在 100℃水熱溫度 24 小時反應時間可製備出含平均粒徑為 4.6
奈米的非結晶型顆粒之鍍膜液。當水熱反應時間增長為 36 小時以上時，XRD 已可明顯偵測出 MFI 沸
石結晶型顆粒，其粒徑及孔洞體積都隨反應時間增加而增加。固態 NMR 分析則顯示顆粒上 SiOH 基團
(silanol groups)濃度隨反應時間增加而減少，換句話說，非結晶型顆粒具最高之 SiOH基團(silanol groups)
濃度。由研究結果也發現，薄膜之機械強度隨溶液水熱反應時間增長而減少，而利用非結晶型顆粒鍍
膜液能鍍出機械強度最高之薄膜。但由於此非結晶性顆粒表面具有很多的 SiOH 基團(silanol groups)，
使用該顆粒所製備的薄膜太厚時會增加疏水性修飾的難度，因此須將薄膜厚度降低。如此可製備出同
時也具有小於 2 的低介電常數、低漏電流密度(為數量級 10-7A/cm2)及高機械強度(硬度 1.73 GPa、彈性
係數 17.0 GPa)之中孔洞型低介電常數薄膜。 
 
  本研究發現若要製備出機械性質佳的中孔洞型低介電常數薄膜，膜中所含之奈米顆粒之光密度比
值(ratio of optical density，FTIR 測得，550cm-1 波峰強度與 450cm-1 波峰強度的比值)必須小於 10 %。單
階段 24 小時水熱所成之非結晶型顆粒，其光密度比值為 0 %，因此機械強度高。而水熱時間大於 42
小時所成之純矽沸石顆粒，其光密度比值會大於 10 % (界於 15 %到 42 %之間)，因此必須藉由離心程
序移除溶液中的大結晶顆粒，才使溶液中的顆粒光密度比值小於 10 %，因而成功製備出介電常數小於
2、低漏電流密度(為數量級 10-8A/cm2)以及高機械強度的中孔洞型低介電常數薄膜。 
關鍵詞： 中孔洞型低介電常數薄膜，界面活性劑 Tween 80，MFI 結構的純矽沸石顆粒，非結晶性二
氧化矽顆粒，兩階段/單階段水熱程序，光密度比值(相當於顆粒結晶性)，機械強度 
 
 III 
than 2, low leakage current densities (of order of 10
-8 A/cm2) and high mechanical strength (hardness of 
1.73 GPa and elastic modulus of 17.0 GPa) was obtained.  
 
  It was found that in order to prepare mesoporous low-k films with high mechanical strength and low k 
values, the ratio of optical density of < 10 % (ratio of optical density, measured from FTIR spectra, which was 
the ratio of intensity at band 550cm
-1 
to that at band 450cm
-1
) of the particles is necessary to prepare the 
mesoporous low-k films with PSZ MFI nanocrystals. The ratio of optical density of the noncrystalline silica 
particles is 0 %, resulting in high mechanical strength of the film. As the hydrothermal time was higher than 
42 h in the one-stage hydrothermal process, the ratio of optical density of the so-obtained nanocrystals was 
higher than 10 % (between 15 % and 42 %); therefore, a centrifugation step should be applied to remove big 
nanocrystals, resulting in that the ratio of optical density of the nanocrystal in the resulting centrifuged coating 
solution could be smaller than 10 %. As a result, mesoporous low-k films which possessed k values of < 2, 
low leakage current densities of order of 10
-8 A/cm2, and high mechanical strength (hardness of > 1 GPa and 
elastic modulus of > 10 GPa) were successfully prepared from the centrifuged coating solutions.  
 
Keywords: mesoporous low-k films, Tween 80, PSZ MFI nanocrystals, noncrystalline silica particles, 
two-stage/one-stage hydrothermal process, ratio of optical density (particle crystallinity), mechanical strength 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 V 
2-4 Characterizations 17 
 2-4.1 X-ray diffraction 17 
 2-4.2 Nitrogen adsorption/desorption measurements 17 
 2-4.3 Solid-State NMR characterization  18 
 2-4.4 FTIR characterization 18 
 2-4.5 Particle size measurement 18 
 2-4.6 Inductively Coupled Plasma Optical Emission Spectrometry  
     (ICP) characterization  18 
 2-4.7 Surface morphology characterization  18 
 2-4.8 Characterization of low-k films 18 
  2-4.8.1 Characterization of low-k films 18 
 2-4.8.2 Dielectric constant measurement 19 
 2-4.8.3 Leakage current density measurement 20 
 2-4.8.4 Film thickness measurement 20 
 2-4.8.5 Mechanical strength measurement 20 
    
Chapter 3 Preparation of mesoporous low-k films from PSZ MFI 
nanocrystals synthesized through  
two-stage hydrothermal process 
21 
3-1 Introduction 21 
3-2 Experimental section 21 
3-3 Effects of Tween 80 addition on the surface morphology of     
   the mesoporous PSZ MFI low-k films 21 
3-4 Effects of Tween 80 addition on the pore sizes of the    
   mesoporous PSZ MFI materials   30 
3-5 k value and mechanical strength of mesoporous PSZ MFI  
   low-k films  33 
3-6 Summary  34 
  
Chapter 4 Preparation of mesoporous low-k films from 
noncrystalline silica nanoparticles prepared through 
one-stage hydrothermal process 
36 
4-1 Introduction  36 
4-2 Experimental section 36 
4-3 Particle size and particle crystallinity characterization 37 
 VII 
Table of Tables 
 
Table 1-1 Commercialized dielectrics. Adapted ( Maex et al. [4]) 4 
Table 1-2 Effect of reflux time of the preparation of coating solution on various properties of the 
films 12 
Table 1-3 Effect of TPAOH addition to the coating solution on various properties of the films  12 
Table 3-1 Film thickness, electronic and mechanical properties of the mesoporous PSZ MFI 
low-k films  25 
Table 3-2 Average particle sizes in the coating solutions and total pore volumes of the powder 
samples prepared form the coating solutions   27 
Table 4-1 Electronic and Mechanical Properties of Mesoporous low-k Films Prepared from 
Coating Solutions Containing  Non-crystalline Silica Particles and Surfactant Tween 
80 45 
Table 5-1 Various properties of mesoporous low-k films and powders prepared from coating 
solutions with different hydrothermal times 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 IX 
line into a postive CB line, thus preventing the formation of stripes. Adopted [Birnie, 
2001 [101]] 
 
30 
Figure 3-8 a) Nitrogen adsorption/desorption isotherms and b) pore size distribution curves from 
the powder samples dried from solution HT36 without Tween 80 addition, and the 
centrifuged solutions composed of solution HT36 and Tween 80 with different weight 
ratios of Tween 80/TEOS 
 
 
 
31 
Figure 3-9 a) Nitrogen adsorption/desorption isotherms and b) pore size distribution curves from 
the powder samples dried from solution HT48 without Tween 80 addition, and the 
centrifuged solutions composed of solution HT48 and Tween 80 with different weight 
ratios of Tween 80/TEOS 32 
Figure 4-1 X-ray differaction patterns of powder samples from coating solutions containing 
particles with different crystallinities 38 
Figure 4-2 FTIR spectra from powder samples from coating solutions containing particles with 
different crystallinities 38 
Figure 4-3 Particle size distributions in different coating solutions. 39 
Figure 4-4  a) Nitrogen adsorption/desorption isotherms and b) pore size distribution curves from 
the powder samples prepared from coating solutions containing particles with different 
crystallinity. The arrows pointing toward the upper right side are adsorption isotherms, 
and those pointing toward to the lower left side are desorption isotherms 40 
Figure 4-5 Hardness and elastic modulus of the mesoporous low-k films, exhibited with open 
square and red solid sphere symbols, respectively, and error bars (representing standard 
deviation of hardness or elastic modulus), and the total pore volume of powder 
samples, exhibited with open triangle symbols, prepared from coating solutions 
containing particles with different crystallinities 43 
Figure 4-6 Surface topography images, (a) a lower resolution image with a scale bar of 1 micron 
meter, and (b) a higher resolution image with a scale bar of 200 nm, of the mesoporous 
low-k films prepared from coating solutions containing particles with different 
crystallinities 43 
Figure 4-7 a) A cross section image of sample NCS and b) a schematic illustration of surface 
modification occurred inside a thick film prepared with the non-crystalline silica 
particles 46 
Figure 4-8 a) Nitrogen adsorption/desorption isotherms and b) pore size distribution curves from 
the powder samples prepared from coating solutions containing the non-crystalline 
silica particles with different dilution ratio 47 
Figure 5-1 X-ray diffraction characterization of powders prepared from uncentrifuged coating 
solutions, samples 36BC, 42BC, and 48BC, and that from centrifuged conting 
solutions, samples 36AC, 42AC, and 48BC 51 
Figure 5-2 FTIR characterization of powders prepared from uncentrifuged coating solutions, 
samples 36BC, 42BC, and 48BC, and that from centrifuged conting solutions, samples 
36AC, 42AC, and 48BC 51 
Figure 5-3 Nitrogen adsorption/desorption isotherms of coating solutions prepared from different  
 1 
Chapter 1 
Introduction  
 
1-1 Background 
  As the packing density of the metal wires and the size of the elements in an integrated circuit (IC) continue 
to increase and decrease, respectively, the problem of a  resistive-capacitive time delay (RC delay) caused by 
parasitic resistance and parasitic capacitance become increasingly sever. The RC delay would result in longer 
signal propagation time, more cross-talk noise between metal wires, and higher power dissipation. Introducing 
Cu metal wires and low dielectric constant (< 3.9) materials (low-k materials) into IC to substitute the 
traditional used metal wires, Al, and inter-metal dielectric, dense silica (dielectric constant/ k value = 3.9), is 
considered to be imperative to meet the problem. By introduction of Cu metal into IC, it could increase the 
signal propagation speed because its resistivity is lower than Al metal. However, this along is not enough to 
improve the problem of the RC delay. To further address the problem, using low-k materials as the inter-metal 
dielectrics is necessary due to its lower capacitance that could reduce not only the cross-talk noise between 
metal wires but the power dissipation [1 - 4]. Incorporating Cu metal wires into IC was successfully 
developed by IBM in 1997 [5], and this could reduce the RC time delay by 35% [6]. Moreover, if air is used 
as the inter-metal dielectric to substitute with dense silica in IC, the RC delay will be greatly reduced about 
75% because of its ultra low-k value of unity [6]. Until now, it is not possible to integrate air into IC to be the 
inter-metal dielectric because air is not a solid substrate to hold up other elements in IC. However, if the 
inter-metal dielectrics possess pores or voids filled with air, the k value will then be reduced. Therefore, the 
main research to address the RC delay problem has been focusing on developing low-k materials since 1990s. 
Furthermore, the required k value established by ITRS in 2008 showed that the k value should be 1.9 as the 
gate length of CMOS devices in IC approaches 20 nm in 2015 [7]. 
 
1-2 Classification of low-k materials 
  There are two methods to reduce the k value. One is to reduce the polarizability of materials with non-polar 
or less polarizable bonds in molecular structure, such as C-C bond and C-F bond [4, 8, 9]. The other is to 
incorporate air to synthesize low-k materials, i.e., porous materials. The k value of the porous materials would 
be between 1 (air) and the k value which the material (non-porous) is. For example, porous SiO2 dielectrics 
possess low-k values between 1.1 and 2.5, which are adjusted by the porosity of the porous SiO2 materials. In 
general, the more the pores are in the porous materials; the lower the k value is [3, 4, 10, 11]. Based on these 
two methods, many kinds of low-k materials have been developed, including organic polymer based, 
silsesquioxane based, and silica based dielectrics [4].  
 
1-2.1 Organic polymer based dielectrics 
  Organic polymer based dielectrics consist mainly of covalent bonds, such as C-C, C-H, C-O, C-S, and C-N 
bonds. Due to the low polarity of these bonds, the dielectric constant of organic polymer based dielectrics was 
low (between 2 and 3). However, these materials are not easy to be used in the IC industry because of their 
 3 
polarizable CH3 bonds and free space, the k value can be reduced to 2.5 [4]. However, the mechanical strength 
is also reduced due to the free space.  
   
  Table 1-1 shows some commercialized products of organic polymer based, SSQ based, and silica based 
dielectric materials [4]. The k values of organic polymer based dielectrics are mainly between 2.4 and 3, and 
some are lower than 2.4. For SSQ and silica based dielectrics, the k values distribute in a wide range (2 to 4); 
and some are smaller than 2. Even though some of these commercialized dielectrics possess the k value of < 
2.4, they still do not meet the required k value of 1.9 in the near future [7], and their mechanical strength, as 
mentioned previously, is always a problem. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1-2. a) Elementary unit of SiO2, b) Elementary unit of SiO2 with CH3 substitution, c) long chain 
structure, and d) cross linking structure. Adapted (Maex et al. [4]).   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 
ethanol), water, silica source (such as TEOS (tetraethoxysilane)), and acid catalyst (such as HCl). After the 
precursor solution has been prepared, a base-treatment and an aging process are applied for in some studies. 
The final step is to remove the solvent from the films with two different drying methods. As shown in Fig. 1-3, 
after the homogeneous precursor solution becomes a gel, the solvent is removed by supercritical extraction to 
obtain the aerogel films; if the solvent is removed by air drying in ambient, the films obtained are xerogel 
films. The porosity obtained from these two ways is high. For aerogel films, the process of supercritical 
extraction could obviate the drying stress and prevent collapsing of pore structure during drying. However, the 
supercritical extraction process is not easy to be integrated into the IC industry; limiting the use of aerogel 
films. Comparing with the supercritical drying of preparing aerogel films, air drying of preparing xerogel 
films is much easy and simple, and is easy to be integrated in the IC industry. However, air drying would 
result in a random pore size distribution and pore collapse of so-obtained xerogel films, thereby lowering the 
uniformity of film property, such as mechanical strength and k value [14 -17]. 
    
  To improve the pore collapse problem of xerogel films, Mizuno et al. applied an aging process to increase 
the mechanical strength of the films [18]. When a spun-on xerogel film is obtained, it is immersed into HCl or 
NH4OH solution to age for 24 h. This aging step could enhance the condensation reaction between SiOH 
groups, which condenses Si-OH groups into Si-O-Si groups. Therefore, the amount of cross linking bonds of 
Si-O-Si increased. Due to the enhanced condensation reaction in whole film, the properties of mechanical 
strength and k value are more uniform and better than those without the aging process. Moreover, Dong et al. 
synthesized triethoxyfluorosilane-based xerogel films, which were demonstrated to have enhanced mechanical 
properties [19 - 21]. Their idea to increase the mechanical strength is the same with Mizuno et al. [18], i.e., 
enhancing the condensation reaction between SiOH groups to obtain more Si-O-Si bonds, thereby increasing 
the mechanical properties.   
 
Homogeneous
Precursor
Solution
Gel
Supercritical
Extraction
Air Dry
Aerogel
Xerogel
Calcine
Calcined Aerogel
Calcined Xerogel
S = 0 %
S = 60 - 90 %
S < 8 %
S ~ 40 %S : Shrinkage
Calcine
 
Figure 1-3. Preparation of aerogel and xerogel materials with supercritical extraction and air drying processes. 
 7 
molecule source or are rearranged according to the anion charge density and shape requirements.  At the 
“liquid crystal formation with molecular inorganics” stage [Fig.1-5(B), (C)], nucleation and rapid 
precipitation of organized arrays takes place with configurations determined by the cooperative interactions of 
ion-pair charges, geometries, and organic Van der Waals forces. Silicate condensation at this stage is minimal.  
At the “inorganic polymerization and condensation” stage [Fig.1-5(C)], the condensation of silicates increases 
with time.  The silicate framework charge decreases during this process and may lead to liquid-crystal-like 
phase transitions as the surfactant phase tries to reorganize the changing interface charge density.  
 
After the introduction of the mechanism of this method, one can understand that surfactant can 
self-organize into micelles with various geometries, when its concentration is higher than CMC, to minimize 
contact between the incompatible ends during the self-assembly. Moreover, as shown in Fig. 1-5 (C) and (D), 
the geometries grow into a repeated unit structure. Once the micelles are removed, the repeated unit structure 
will usually form an ordered mesostructure. Mesostructure materials have pores with pore size between 2 and 
50 nm. The pore size in the range is also defined as mesopore by IUPAC [27].  
 
 
 
Figure 1-4. Representation of the various types of inorganic-surfactant head group interactions: electrostatic: a) 
S
＋
I
－
, b) S
－
I
＋
, c) S
＋
X
－
I
＋
, and d) S
－
M
＋
I
－
; hydrogen bonding: e) S
0
I
0
 and f) N
0
I
0
; and covalent bonding: g) S－I. 
Adapted (Ying et al. [26]).  
 
 9 
the pores of mesoporous siliceous materials; Vogel et al. (2003) reported the mesostructured dye-doped 
titanium dioxide thin films [40]. For sensor applications, Yamada et al. have utilized a cubic-like mesoporous 
silica film to sense NO gas, and the effects of the packing structure of the mesoporous silica film on the 
sensing ability were also investigated [41, 42]. It was shown that the film with the cubic packing structure, 
which provides better accessibility over hexagonal structure, was more suitable for the NO gas sensor. The 
NO2 gas sensor was also reported via the similar device [43]. The detection level was reported to be as low as 
1 ppm of NO2 gas;  Bearzotti et al. (2003) developed the humidity and alcohol sensors based on mesoporous 
silica thin films [44]. For adsorbent applications, the design of mesostructure-based adsorbents for the 
removal of metal ions from solution has been intensively investigated [45, 46].  
 
For bio-related applications, Xu et al. (2003) have applied successfully the ordered mesoporous niobium 
oxide film as the matrix for Cyt-c, a heme protein. By tuning the pore size to 6 nm (larger than the size of 
Cyt-c, which is about 3.3 nm in diameter), the mesoporous niobium film allowed a high protein adsorption 
compared with films that is either non-porous or smaller pores (2 nm). For catalyst applications, several 
reviews regarding catalytic applications have been reported [49, 50]; the effects of the morphology of the 
catalyst system on the photocatalytic reactivity were investigated in the literatures [51, 52]. It was found that 
the self-standing Ti-containing porous silica thin films exhibited higher photocatalytic activity than powdered 
materials, even with the same pore structure; Kucernak and Jiang (2003) utilized the mesoporous platinum as 
a catalyst for oxygen electro-reduction and methanol electro-oxidation [53]. It has been reported that the 
interference of sensing CH4 from CO was eliminated by covering the SnO2-based sensors with mesoporous 
silica films loaded with Pd or Pt [54].  
 
Except the above applications, many studies have focused on the preparing of mesoporous silica 
dielectrics. Because the pore structure of mesoporus silica dielectrics is much ordered than that of dielectrics 
prepared through aerogel/ xerogel method, and the porosity of the dielectrics is tunable, the applicability of 
these materials is highly expected. Consequently, the following section is going to introduce several advanced 
studies on the mesoporous silica dielectrics. 
 
1-3.2.3 Mesoporous silica low-k dielectrics 
    Since the mesostructure materials were developed, many studies have successfully prepared mesoporous 
silica dielectric films through the surfactant-templated method [55-63]. Baskaran et al. first applied 
polyoxyethylene ether surfactant as the template [55, 61] to add in a precursor solution composed of 
etraethylorthosilicate (TEOS), ethanol, deionized water, HCl, and the surfactant. The resulting solution was 
aged for 20 h to form the coating solution, which was then spun on a 4-ince silicon wafer to form a 
mesoporous silica low-k film. The k values of so-obtained films were in the range of 1.80 to 2.50. However, 
the leakage current density of the film was not mentioned in their published papers. It should be noted that, 
because the dielectric serves as an insulator between metal lines, leakage current density of the film is an 
important parameter for a dielectric. Later, Yang et al. applied P123 tri-block copolymer as the template to 
synthesize mesoporous low-k film [56]. They used a TEOS refluxing step and mixed trimethylchlorosilane 
with precursor solution for the preparation of the coating solution. However, although the resultant k values of 
the films were in the range of 1.42 to 2.50, there was a problem about the solubility of P123 surfactant in the 
 11 
> 10 GPa and hardness > 1 Gpa [71]. The following section will present some studies which focus on 
improving the mechanical strength of the mesoporous silica low-k films.  
 
1-3.2.4 Improvement of mechanical strength of mesoporous silica low-k films 
  Cho et al. in 2005 used the surfactant tri-block copolymer P123 as template to synthesis mesoporous silica 
low-k films [72]. The k value of so-obtained film was 1.93, but the mechanical strength (elastic modulus and 
hardness) did not meet the required values. Its elastic modulus and hardness were 8.4 GPa and 0.7 GPa, 
respectively. In order to enhancing the mechanical strength, the mesoporous silica low-k films were treated 
with ozone ash at 200 or 300℃. It was described that the ozone treatment could effectively remove the 
organic template and, more importantly, enhances the mechanical strength of the so-obtained mesoporous 
silica low-k films. The elastic modulus and hardness were increased to 17.7 GPa and 1.1GPa, respectively as 
the treatment temperature was 300℃ [73]. However, ozone is highly reactive and unstable that will cause 
safety concerns, thereby limiting the applicability of this treatment process.  Later, Ha et al. prepared 
mesoporous silica low-k films with surfactant Brij-76 as a template [74]. In order to increase the mechanical 
strength, they used tetraethylorthosilane (TEOS) and methyltriethoxysilane (MTES) as a mixed silica 
precursor. The result obtained in the research showed that the elastic modulus and hardness was increased as 
the ratio of MTES to TEOS increased. The addition of MTES effectively improved the mechanical strength of 
the films. However, even though the elastic modulus and the hardness were both higher than the required 
values for inter-metal dielectrics, the k values of the films were always higher than 2.3 [73], which is too high 
for the future IC industry. 
 
In our recent research, Tsai et al. studied two methods which could increase the mechanical strength of 
mesoporou silica low-k films by introducing two processes into the synthesis procedure of the 
surfactant-templated method [71]. The first one was a reflux process which refluxed silica colloid solution at 
70 ℃ for hours. As shown in Table 1-2, the hardness and elastic modulus increased with the reflux time, 
indicating that the process could promote the condensation reaction between -Si-OH groups to produce more 
-Si-O-Si- groups in the silica particles. Because the condensation reaction was much more completed, the 
mechanical strength of the low-k film was increased as compared with the films without reflux process. The 
second one was that an appropriate amount of tetrapropylammonium hydroxide (TPAOH) was added into the 
silica colloid solution and then refluxed for 3 hours. The results were shown in Table 1-3. The mechanical 
strength of the film was further increased by 17% as compared with that of the films without the addition of 
TPAOH. The elastic modulus and the hardness of the film were 9.9GPa and 1.4GPa, respectively, and the k 
value was 2.06 that were all the best results in the research [71]. However, the purpose to obtain a mesoporous 
silica low-k film with k value of < 2 and qualified mechanical strength with preparing process of high 
applicability is still not achieved. In order to further address the problem of mechanical strength of porous 
dielectrics, a high crystalline porous dielectrics was developed. The following section is going to introduce 
these high crystalline porous dielectrics through hydrothermal method.   
 
 
 
 
 13 
subsequently, the temperature was raised to 100 °C so that the nuclei could grow into crystals. The k value of 
the film synthesized from the so-obtained resulting solution was reported as low as 1.6 while the size of the 
zeolite nanoparticles increased to 75 nm. The elastic modulus of the film was 16 GP [77]. Besides the PSZ 
MFI low-k films, Mitra et al. (2004) and Li et al. (2005) also proposed PSZ Beta and MEL type low-k film 
with k values of 2.3 and 1.5, respectively [78, 79]. The framework density, the number of tetrahedrally 
coordinated atoms per 1000 Å
3
, of these two types of PSZ was low than PSZ MFI, indicating that the pore 
volume in MEL nanoparticles was higher than that in MFI nanoparticles. However, the mechanical strength 
was not shown in the studies even though the k value of the resulting films was as low as 1.5.  
 
The above PSZ low-k films synthesized with the hydrothermal processes seem to meet all of the 
requirements, k-value < 2 and an elastic modulus of 10 GPa, of low-k films urgently needed by the IC 
industry. However, Eslava et al.
 
repeated the experiment conducted by Wang et al., their first study in 2001 
[74], to synthesize PSZ MFI low-k films and obtained some results that could be fatal to the use of this kind of 
low-k films in IC industry [80, 81].
 
It was found that the k values of the films were reduced mainly by large 
voids (>5 nm) which formed among the packing between large PSZ MFI nanoparticles. The voids would 
result in that Cu metal diffuses into the pores of low-k films during the later IC manufacturing process, 
resulting in electronic breakdowns [4, 80-82]. They also demonstrated that the surface roughness of the PSZ 
MFI low-k films would increase with the particle size of the zeolite nanoparticles. As the particle size 
exceeded 55 nm, the elastic modulus was much less than 10 GPa. This result is also different from Li et al. 
(2003) [77], who obtained a low-k film with elastic modulus of 16 GPa as the particle size of PSZ 
nanoparticles was 75 nm. Moreover, Johnson et al. synthesized zeolite low-k films from coating solutions 
containing another PSZ zeolite (MEL type) nanoparicles [83], and they found that the surface roughness of 
the films increased with the size of the zeolite nanoparticles.  
 
A rough surface may lead to poor measurements of electric or mechanical properties. For example, Hata et 
al.
 
in 2008 observed that the surface of low-k film spin-coated from a coating solution containing only PSZ 
MFI nanoparticles was too rough to obtain useful data through spectroscopic ellipsometry [84]. One drawback 
of the study was that the researchers did not provide any evidence, such as an image of the surface topography, 
to support their observation. Furthermore, in order reduce the surface roughness of zeolite low-k films; they 
added surfactants, P123 or L44, into a PSZ MEL nanoparticle suspension to form a coating solution. It was 
reported that the surface flatness of the low-k films spin-coated from the coating solution was improved after 
the addition of the surfactants. Mixing surfactant with zeolite nanoparticles to form coating solutions has also 
been used by several researchers to produce mesoporous zeolite low-k films [84-87]. They added surfactant 
into PSZ MEL nanoparticle suspension to form a coating solution, and produced mesoporous PSZ MEL low-k 
film with a k value of 1.96 with an elastic modulus of 5.18 GPa. However, the elastic modulus was too poor to 
be used in IC industry.  
 
  According to the above studies of PSZ low-k films, the films with k values of <2 and qualified mechanical 
strength, elastic modulus of >10 GPa, seemed to be obtained [74-76]. However, some researchers had proved 
that the films might have some problems such as a rough surface that would result in a useless data, large 
voids which might cause electronic breakdown, and weak mechanical strength (elastic modulus < 10 GPa) as 
 15 
part of this research, chapter 5, the PSZ MFI nanocrystals were prepared through the one-stage hydrothermal 
process that takes only 39 - 51 h which is much shorter than that prepared through the two-stage hydrothermal 
process. The comparison of various properties of the mesoporous PSZ MFI low-k films prepared through the 
two-stage and the one-stage processes will be also included in this chapter.  
 
 
 
Figure 1-6. a) preparation of mesoporous silica low-k films through surfactant-templated method; b) 
preparation of mesoporous silica low-k films through reflux process and surfactant-templated method.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a 
b 
 17 
prepared by HF solution (48 %) and deionized water, and the volume ratio of HF solution (48 %) to deionized 
water is 1 to 10; 2. a SC1 solution that is composed of ammonium hydroxide (28 %), hydrogen peroxide (35 
%), and deionized water, and the volume ratio of NH4OH/H2O2/D.I.water is 1/1/5.  The substrate was firstly 
soaked in the dilute HF solution for 5 minutes and was washed by D.I. water.  The purpose of the step is to 
remove the native oxide on the silicon wafer.  Next, the substrate was immersed into the SC1 solution for 20 
minutes at room temperature.  The purpose of the step is to oxidize the wafer surface and to make the surface 
hydrophilic.  After that, the substrate was washed by D.I. water and was spin-dried before coating. 
 
2-3.2 Preparation of coating solutions and low-k films 
In the first of this research, coating solutions composed of PSZ MFI nanoparticles and surfactant were 
synthesized through the following steps. First, 20 ml of a solution containing TEOS (>99 wt%, Merck), EtOH 
(Acros Organics), TPAOH (25 wt%, Acros Organics), and DI water were mixed in a molar composition ratio 
of 1TEOS/5.6EtOH/0.36TPAOH/12.2H2O, and then the mixture was stirred at 30 °C for 3 days. After that, the 
so-obtained solution was applied to a two-stage hydrothermal reaction process, employed by Li et al. in 2004 
[77]. The first stage was carried out at 60 °C for 2 days and the second stage at 100 °C for hours. 12 ml of the 
resulting solution was mixed with a surfactant, Tween 80 (Polyoxyethylene(20)sorbitan monooleate, Acros 
Organics), with a weight ratio of Tween 80 to TEOS (denoted as R in this study) of 0.05, 0.21, or 0.41, and 
then stirred at 30 °C for 3 h. 10 ml of this resulting solution was put into a plastic tube and centrifuged to 
remove large particles. Subsequently, 3 ml of the solution in the upper part of the plastic tube was taken as the 
coating solution to prepare the mesoporous PSZ MFI low-k films. The coating solution was spin-coated on a 
precleaned 4-inch P-type (1 0 0) silicon wafer (Siltronic AG) at 2600 rpm for 30 s, using an SSP-01A spinner 
(King Polytechnic Engineering Co.). The process of cleaning silicon wafer was presented in section 2.3.1. The 
spin-coated film was then baked at 150 °C for 1 h and calcined at 450 °C for 5 h in air. Finally, after the film 
cooled down to 110 °C, it was immersed into a mixture of hexamethyldisilazane (Acros Organics) and toluene 
(Acros Organics) at 80 °C for 1.5 h to modify the surface to a hydrophobic state. The experimental detail for 
the second and third parts of this research will be presented in the corresponding chapters because the 
composition of precursor solution and most of the preparation procedures for the films are the same.  
 
2-4 Characterizations 
2-4.1 X-ray diffraction 
The X-ray diffraction technique based on Bragg’s law is used for investigating the periodicity of the 
specimen and the crystallinity of powder samples prepared as bellow. First, the coating solutions were dried at 
60 °C for 3 h and 90 °C for 3 h, and the dried samples were then calcined at 550 °C for 5 h to obtain the 
powder samples. The samples were characterized with X’Pert PRO, PANalytical, to obtain X-ray diffraction 
spectra which were then used for comparison of the crystallinity among the samples with different preparation 
condition.  
 
2-4.2 Nitrogen adsorption/desorption measurements 
Powder samples obtained through the method as described in above section, 2-4.1, were characterized 
through nitrogen adsorption/desorption measurements at 77 K using a TriStar 3000 (Micromeritics) apparatus 
to obtain data of pore volume and pore size distribution. Prior to the measurement, the samples were degassed 
 19 
vapor through an aluminum shadow mask.  The backside of the silicon wafer was etched by HF to remove 
the native oxide and thermal coated with aluminum. 
 
 
Figure 2-1. Illustration of metal-insulator-semiconductor (MIS) structure. 
 
2-4.8.2 Dielectric constant measurement 
The dielectric constant (k) of the film is calculated by the film capacitance (C), the thickness (d), and the 
area (A) of the electrode in the MIS structure.  To calculate the dielectric constant, the following equation is 
utilized: 
 
d
Ak
C 0

  
(2-1)  
 
“ε0” is the permittivity of vacuum (8.85x10
-12
 farad/m).  The thickness (d) is measured by the cross-section 
of the film thickness in SEM photos.  The area (A) of the electrode used for measuring capacitance is 0.0052 
cm
2
.  The capacitance (C) of the film is obtained from the capacitance-voltage (C-V) curve, with an arrow 
shown in Fig. 2-2.  
 
 
 
Figure 2-2. A typical capacitance-voltage (C-V) curve 
 
 21 
Chapter 3 
Preparation of mesoporous low-k films from PSZ MFI nanocrystals 
synthesized through two-stage  
hydrothermal process 
 
3-1 Introduction 
In this chapter, the first part of this research, mesoporous PSZ MFI low-k films were prepared from coating 
solutions composed of surfactant Tween 80 and PSZ MFI nanocrystals synthesized using a two-stage 
hydrothermal process (60 °C for 2 days in the first stage, and 100 °C for 36 or 48 h in the second stage), 
which was developed by Li et al. in 2004 [77]. The effects of addition of surfactant Tween 80, centrifugation 
conditions, and the hydrothermal period of the second stage for making the coating solutions on the properties 
of the films were investigated. It was found that a film with a k value of < 2, an elastic modulus > 10 GPa, and 
a hardness > 1 GPa could be successfully produced under the presence of Tween 80. The surface flatness of 
the films was characterized through optical microscopy, which clearly showed the difference between the 
films produced with and without the addition of the surfactant. Moreover, the total pore volume, pore size 
distribution and the problem of large voids were also examined by means of nitrogen adsorption/desorption 
analysis. 
 
3-2 Experimental section 
The detailed experimental procedure to prepare mesoporous PSZ MFI low-k films has been described in 
section 2-3.2. The solution prepared from the two-stage hydrothermal process was named as solution HT36 or 
HT48 depending on the hydrothermal time of second stage. 12 ml of solution HT36 or HT48 was mixed with 
a surfactant, Tween 80, in a weight ratio (denoted as R) of Tween 80 to TEOS of 0.05, 0.21, or 0.41, and then 
stirred at 30 °C for 3 h. 10 ml of this resulting solution was put into a plastic tube and centrifuged for 24 h 
with a centrifugation speed of 1000 rpm. Subsequently, 3 ml of the solution in the upper part of the plastic 
tube was taken as the coating solution to produce the mesoporous PSZ MFI low-k films.  
 
3-3 Effects of Tween 80 addition on the surface morphology of the mesoporous PSZ MFI 
low-k films 
As mentioned in previous section, Li et al. in 2004 adopted a two-stage hydrothermal process to produce 
PSZ MFI nanocrystals. The k value of the film prepared from the so-obtained resulting solution was reported 
as low as 1.6 while the size of the nanocrystals increased to 75 nm [77]. However, Eslava et al. demonstrated 
that the surface roughness of the PSZ MFI low-k films was very rough as the size of the nanocrystals 
exceeded 55 nm, and the roughness would also increase with the particle size of the nanocrystals [74]. A 
rough surface may lead to poor results of the measurements of electric or mechanical properties [84]. 
Therefore, prior to the studies of electric and mechanical properties, it is necessary to examine the surface 
morphology of the films prepared from PSZ MFI nanocrystals.  
 23 
 
 
 
Figure 3-1. Surface morphologies of the mesoporous PSZ MFI low-k films spin-coated from various solutions: 
a) and b) solution HT36, c) a solution after solution HT36 was centrifuged, d) to f) three centrifuged solutions 
composed of solution HT36 and Tween 80 with Tween 80/TEOS weight ratios of 0.05, 0.21, and 0.41, 
respectively.  
 
b 
c d 
e 
2mm 
a 
2mm 
2mm 
2mm 
2mm 
f 
 25 
Table 3-1. Film thickness, electronic and mechanical properties of the mesoporous PSZ MFI low-k films  
Solution
a
 
/Second stage 
hydrothermal 
period (h) 
Tween 80 to 
TEOS 
(weight ratio) 
Average 
film 
thickness 
(nm) / δb 
k 
value 
Leakage 
current 
(10
-7 
A/cm
2
) 
H
c
 
(GPa) 
E
d
 
(GPa) 
HT36 
/36 
0 250/230
e
 - - - - 
0.05 263/2 
2.98 
±0.07 
1.82 
1.35 
±0.51 
15.9 
±1.6 
0.21 315/12 
2.49 
±0.05 
1.51 
1.47 
±0.24 
14.0 
±1.3 
0.41 316/16 
1.83 
±0.04 
1.35 
1.39 
±0.31 
12.3 
±1.9 
HT48 
/48 
0 crack
e
 - - - - 
0.05 214/6 
1.88 
±0.05 
4.18 
0.44 
±0.15 
8.1 
±3.0 
0.21 161/8 
1.81 
±0.04 
6.73 
0.37 
±0.11 
5.4 
±1.4 
a. The initial molar ratios in the solution before hydrothermal processes were 
            1TEOS/5.6EtOH/0.36TPAOH/12.2H2O. 
b. δ represents the largest difference in measured thickness of the films. 
c. H represents the hardness of the films. 
d. E represents the elastic modulus of the films. 
e. Data obtained from the films prepared from hydrothermal processes and without going through the 
centrifuge process. 
 
As shown in Figure 3-3a, when longer hydrothermal time was used for the preparation of solution HT48, 
the film spin-coated from the solution without addition of Tween 80 cracked seriously after it was dried and 
calcined. Even though the solution was centrifuged, the spin-coated film still cracked. The crystallinity of the 
nanocrystals in solution HT48 is higher than that in solution HT36, suggesting that the nanocrystals with high 
crystallinity is not suitable for coating. However, the addition of a small amount of Tween 80 into solution 
HT48 can improve the situation. It can be found in Fig. 3-3b and Fig. 3-3c that the surface morphologies of 
two films spin-coated from coating solutions, prepared by adding Tween 80 with Tween 80/TEOS weight 
ratios of 0.05 and 0.21 into solution HT48 and then centrifuging for 24 h, were smooth. Similar to the films, 
spin-coated from two centrifuged solutions composed of solution HT36 and Tween 80 with the same weight 
ratios (see Figs 3-1d and 3-1e), no apparent stripes were found from the films with the weight ratio of 0.05; 
furthermore, the stripes with slight color contrast appeared as the ratio increased to 0.21.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a 
 27 
Tween 80 (with weight ratios of 0.21 and 0.41) was added, the micelles in the solution might form. Some of 
them aggregated and dissolved in EtOH and water. They might form the stripes with weak color contrast (see 
Figs. 3-1e and f) after EtOH and water vaporized during spin-coating and baking processes. 
 
Table 3-2. Average particle sizes in the coating solutions and total pore volumes of the powder samples 
prepared form the coating solutions      
Solution
a
 
/Second stage 
hydrothermal period 
(h) 
Tween 80 to 
TEOS  
(weight ratio) 
Size
b
 
(nm) 
Total 
pore volume 
(cm
3
/g) 
HT36 
/36 
0 
c 
41.9 0.32 
0.05 40.8 0.23 
0.21 38.3 0.32 
0.41 35.4 0.40 
HT48 
/48 
0 
c 
55.7 0.58 
0.05 40.3 0.46 
0.21 38.0 0.65 
a. The initial molar ratios in the solution before hydrothermal processes were 
        1TEOS/5.6EtOH/0.36TPAOH/12.2H2O. 
b. Average particle size. 
c. From the hydrothermal processes and without going through the centrifuge process.  
 
 
 
Figure 3-4. Schematic illustrations showing: a) a less hydrophilic surface of a nanocrystal; b) a weak affinity 
occurred between the nanocrystal and the surface of the substrate due to a poor interaction of the less 
hydrophilic nanocrystal surface and the highly hydrophilic substrate. c) a more hydrophilic surface of the 
nanocrystal because of adsorbing the hydrophobic tails of Tween 80; d) a strong affinity occurred between the 
nanocrystals and the substrate due to a strong interaction of the hydrophilic heads of Tween 80 and the -OH 
groups of the substrate.  
 29 
in Figure 3-6. Therefore, when coating solutions contains only PSZ MFI nanocrystals and the solvents, EtOH 
and H2O, EtOH will vaporize first due to its higher vapor pressure. The left H2O will then pull the surface up 
due to its higher surface tension [105], resulting in that the films spin-coated from the coating solutions 
showed a very rough surface morphology with many stripes, such as Figs. 3-1a and b.  
 
 
 
Figure 3-6. Relationship of solvent vapor pressure and surface tension of various solvents. Adopted [Birnie, 
2001 [101]] 
 
  To combat the formation of stripes during a spin coating process, one can choice a mixture of a solvent with 
higher vapor pressure and surface tension and the other with lower ones, such as the combination of A and B 
previously mentioned. However, in most cases, the solvent combination is similar to the one of C and D, such 
as EtOH and H2O in this study that stripes will form during a spin coating process. A possible strategy to 
overcome the formation of stripes is to add another solvent into the mixture of C and D to form a new mixture 
of three solvents. As shown in Figure 3-7, originally, the slope of the connection line of solvents C and D is 
negative. This is not stable to prevent the formation of stripes. However, as a solvent, indicated as B in Fig. 
3-7, with lower vapor pressure and lower surface tension is added into the mixture of C and D, the slope of the 
connect line can be shifted to a positive one, the connection line of CB. Therefore, the possibility of the 
formation of stripes can be reduced. In this study, the surface morphology of PSZ MFI low-k films is greatly 
improved, as shown in Figs. 3-1d, when the films was prepared from coating solutions with the addition of 
Tween 80. Tween 80 may be act as the component B in the mixture of B, C, and D, thus eliminating the 
formation of stripes. 
 
 31 
reduced to 40.8 nm, as shown in Table 2, resulting in that some of the pores formed by particle packing 
disappeared. As the weight ratios were increased to 0.21 and 0.41, type-E hysteresis loops (see Fig. 3-8a) were 
observed from the isotherms of the powder samples [106], indicating that mesopores formed due to Tween 80 
addition. Most of the mesopores of both samples were distributed uniformly between 2 and 4 nm, as shown in 
Fig. 3-8b. However, for the sample with a weight ratio of 0.41, a few pores were between 4 and 5 nm and only 
few of them exceeded 5 nm (which can cause the sealing problem, an integration failure, in the later Cu 
interconnect process). Therefore, the occurrence of electrical degradation of electronic devices in the films 
prepared in this research could be minimized. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3-8. a) Nitrogen adsorption/desorption isotherms and b) pore size distribution curves from the powder 
samples dried from solution HT36 without Tween 80 addition, and the centrifuged solutions composed of 
solution HT36 and Tween 80 with different weight ratios of Tween 80/TEOS. 
 
  Figures 3-9a and b present isotherms and pore size distribution curves, respectively, of the powder samples 
prepared from solution HT48 without Tween 80 addition, and centrifuged solutions composed of solution 
HT48 and Tween 80 with different weight ratios of Tween 80/TEOS. The black lines in both figures are the 
 33 
3-5 k value and mechanical strength of mesoporous PSZ MFI low-k films  
It has been shown that the addition of Tween 80 in coating solutions can make the surfaces of the resulting 
films become smooth and flat. In addition, more pores should be generated in the films after the removal of 
Tween 80 during the calcinations process at 450 °C. For the IC industry application, the k values and the 
mechanical strength of the films are very important, and both of them are strongly affected by the pore 
volume. Table 3-1 shows the data of electronic and mechanical strength (i.e., elastic modulus and hardness) of 
the mesoporous PSZ MFI low-k films spin-coated from coating solutions, prepared by adding Tween 80 with 
different Tween 80/TEOS weigh ratios into solution HT36 or HT48 and then centrifuging for 24 h. It shows a 
tendency that both the k value and the mechanical strength of the films decreased with the increase of amount 
of Tween 80 added in the coating solutions. As seen in Table 3-2, which shows the average particle sizes of 
the nanocrystals in the coating solutions and the total pore volumes of powder samples made from the coating 
solutions, the total pore volume increased with the weight ratio of Tween 80/TEOS. The increase of total pore 
volume can reduce the k value because air, inside the pores in the films, possesses the lowest k value (i.e., k ≒ 
1) among all materials in nature. The mechanical strength of the films became weaker when more volume was 
formed due to the removal of Tween 80. Notably, a film spin-coated from a centrifuged solution composed of 
solution HT36 and Tween 80 with a weight ratio of 0.41 possessed a k value of 1.83, a hardness of 1.39 GPa, 
and an elastic module of 12.3 GPa that all reached the needs of the IC industry. Moreover, comparing the 
mesoporous silica low-k films, prepared using the surfactant-template method in the previous researches, with 
the mesoporous PSZ MFI low-k film prepared in this study, the later possessed not only an ultra low k value 
(< 2) but much better mechanical strength. 
 
For films spin-coated from coating solutions without the addition of Tween 80 (no matter with or without 
centrifugation process), the attempt was not made to measure the electronic and mechanical properties 
because the surface of the films spin-coated from solution HT48 cracked seriously, and that of the films 
spin-coated from solution HT36 was too coarse to obtain steady k values and mechanical strength data. The 
data fluctuated in a wide range because of the large difference in film thickness, as shown in Fig 3-2. However, 
the steady capacitance data and mechanical strength data could be obtained from the films spin-coated from 
the centrifuged coating solutions with the addition of Tween 80. The average k value, mechanical strength, 
and the standard deviation are shown in Table 3-1. It can be observed that the standard deviations relative to 
the average values of all the k values were small, which suggests good uniformity in all the films, even though 
some of the films contain minor stripes. However, the standard deviations relative to the average values of all 
the mechanical strength measurements were larger than those of k values. They might be from the 
instrumental error or the measurement error.  
 
The effect of the second stage hydrothermal time at 100 °C on the electronic and mechanical properties of 
the films can also be clearly observed in Table 3-1. For example, at the same weight ratio of 0.05, the k value 
was reduced from 2.99 to 1.88 as the hydrothermal period increased from 36 h to 48 h, and so did the 
mechanical strength (i.e., the hardness was reduced from 1.35 to 0.44 GPa, and the elastic modulus was 
reduced from 15.9 to 8.1 GPa). Nevertheless, the leakage currents increased from 1.82 x 10
-7 
to 4.18 x 10
-7
 
A/cm
2
. Similarly, with the same weight ratio of 0.21, the k value of the film was reduced from 2.49 to 1.81, 
the mechanical strength also decreased, and the leakage current density increased as the hydrothermal period 
 35 
containing only PSZ MFI nanoparicles, the resulting surfaces were very rough or even cracked, and the steady 
electronic and mechanical strength data could not be obtained. However, after the addition of Tween 80, the 
surface morphology from the resulting coating solution was much improved and the electronic and 
mechanical strength properties could be measured. The effects of the hydrothermal periods of the second stage 
(i.e., 36 h and 48 h) on coating solution (with Tween 80) and on film properties were investigated. It was 
found that the crystallinity and the pore volume of the nanoparticles increased substantially with the second 
stage hydrothermal period. The films prepared from the longer hydrothermal period possessed lower k values, 
very weaker mechanical strength, and higher leakage current. Therefore, only the coating solution from the 
shorter hydrothermal period (i.e., 36 h) is suggested to be used for the spin-coating of low k films, and by 
adding Tween 80 with Tween 80/TEOS weight ratio of 0.41 into the solution, the spin-coated film possesses a 
k value of 1.83, a hardness of 1.39 GPa, an elastic module of 12.3 GPa, and a leakage current of 1.35 x 10
-7
 
A/cm
2
, all of which reach the needs of the IC industry in the future. The film has only a minor sealing 
problem in the later IC manufacture processes because only few pores exceeded 5 nm sizes. Moreover, a 
centrifugation process with a high speed and short time is not preferable. That will raise the temperature to 
over 45 ℃ which may be too high to cause the growth of particles in the centrifugation tube, resulting in an 
experimental inaccuracy.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 37 
4-3 Particle size and particle crystallinity characterization 
  The particle crystallinity and the particle size of non-crystalline silica and PSZ MFI nanocrystals for 
synthesizing mesoporous low-k films were examined. Figure 4-1 shows the X-ray diffraction patterns of 
powder samples prepared from three kinds of coating solutions containing particles with different crystallinity. 
The symbols in the figure HC-MFI, LC-MFI, and NCS represent the powder samples with high crystalline 
PSZ MFI nanocrystals, low crystalline PSZ MFI nanocrystals, and non-crystalline silica particles, respectively. 
As shown in the figure, the sample, HC-MFI, with the highest crystallinity showed apparent characteristic 
peaks of MFI-type zeolite. The sample was prepared from a centrifuged coating solution synthesized with a 
long period (48 h) of the second stage in the two-stage hydrothermal process; that is, the sample prepared 
from solution HT48 with a ratio of Tween 80/ TEOS of 0.05 that mentioned in the previous chapter. As the 
period was reduced to 36 h, the intensity of characteristic peaks of MFI-type zeolite (sample LC-MFI, the 
sample prepared from solution HT36 with a ratio of Tween 80/ TEOS of 0.41) was reduced substantially, 
indicating a reduction of particle crystallinity. It took a very long time to prepare the coating solutions for 
making samples HC-MFI and LC-MFI, including a 72 h aging step, a two-stage hydrothermal process which 
started from the first hydrothermal step at 60℃ for 48 h and was followed by the second stage at 100℃ for 
36 h or 48 h, and a centrifugation step for 24 h. Such a long synthesis time of PSZ MFI nanocrystals, 156 h or 
168 h, ensured the formation of the crystal structure of MFI-type zeolite. 
 
In order to further reduce the particle crystallinity, the period of the aging step was shortened to only 3 h, 
and the two-stage hydrothermal process was simplified to only one stage, which was only at 100℃ for 24h. 
From this much shorter process, a coating solution containing noncrystalline silica nanoparticles was obtained. 
The nanoparticles was reported to be amorphous subcolloidal silica particles, which was the elementary units 
for the crystal growing of MFI-type zeolite during the crystallization process [107-109]. The powder sample 
prepared from the coating solution containing the noncrystalline silica particles did not show any 
characteristic peaks of MFI-type zeolite through XRD characterization, as shown in Figure 4-1 (sample NCS). 
Even through the FTIR analysis, which was a more sensitive way to detect the presence of MFI-type zeolite, a 
pentasil framework vibration at 550 cm
-1
 that was assigned to be an index of the presence of MFI-type zeolite 
structure was not observed [107, 108], as shown in Figure 4-2. In contrast, the other two crystalline samples 
(i.e., HC-MFI, LC-MFI) showed the pentasil vibration at 550cm
-1
, and the optical density ratio of band 550 
cm
-1
 to band 450 cm
-1
 increased from 0.07 of sample LC-MFI to 0.38 of sample HC-MFI, indicating the 
increase of particle crystallinity [92, 93].   
 
  Figure 4-3 presents the particle size distribution curves of particles with different crystallinity in the coating 
solutions, from dynamic light scattering (DLS) measurement. The distribution curve obtained from the 
particles with the highest crystallinity (sample HC-MFI) was similar to that obtained from the particles with 
lower crystallinity (sample LC-MFI), and both of them distributed between 10 nm and 100 nm. The mean 
value of particle sizes of both crystalline samples, HC-MFI and LC-MFI, were 40.3 nm and 35.4 nm, 
respectively. They were much larger than that, 4.6 nm, of the noncrystalline silica particles (sample NCS). The 
size distribution of the noncrystalline silica particles was only between 2 nm and 10 nm, which was much 
narrower than that of the crystalline particles. 
 
 39 
 
 
Figure 4-3. Particle size distributions in different coating solutions. 
 
4-4 Nitrogen adsorption/desorption analysis of the particles with different crystallinity 
and different sizes 
  Figures 4-4a and 4-4b show the adsorption/desorption isotherms and the pore size distribution curves, 
respectively, of all the powder samples. As shown in Figure 4-4a, the isotherm of sample NCS was type-E 
hysteresis loop, and the isotherms of samples HC-MFI and LC-MFI presented combinations of type-E and 
type-C hysteresis loops. Both types of loops indicated the formation of mesopores with ink-bottle geometry 
[106]. From the desorption isotherm of sample NCS, the hysteresis loop showed a rapid drop from relative 
pressure 0.48 to 0.4 (shown as a black arrow toward the lower left side), revealing a uniform neck diameter of 
the ink-bottle mesopores. However, the hysteresis loop of sample LC-MFI presented a slower drop from 
relative pressures 0.6 to 0.4 (shown as a red arrow toward the lower left side). Such a loop was considered to 
be ink-bottle mesopores with various neck diameters. A similar loop, but with a much slower drop, was 
observed on the isotherm from relative pressures 0.85 to 0.4 of sample HC-MFI (shown as a blue arrow 
toward the lower left side), indicating that the neck diameters of the ink-bottle mesopores were distributed in a 
much wider range. From Figure 4b, the mesopore size of sample NCS was mainly distributed between 3 and 4 
nm. The mesopore sizes of samples, LC-MFI and HC-MFI, showed a wider distribution between 3 and 5 nm, 
and a much wider distribution between 3 and 7 nm, respectively. This was in agreement with the hysteresis 
phenomena occurred in the isotherms in Figure 4-4a.   
 
  The formation of the wide pore size distributions of the crystalline samples (i.e., HC-MFI and LC-MFI), 
shown in Figure 4-4b, were considered to be a consequence of their large particle sizes and the broad size 
distributions. For sample LC-MFI, the mesopores sizes between 3 and 4 nm (the primary band in Figure 4-4b) 
was considered to be resulted from removing micelles. The other small band between 4 and 5 nm was 
considered to be formed between the packing of large nanocrystals. For sample HC-MFI, the primary 
mesopores from removing micelles was between 3.5 and 4.5 nm. The larger pores between 4.5 and 7 nm were 
 41 
 
4-5 Effects of particle crystallinity, total pore volume, and surface uniformity on the 
mechanical strength of mesoporous low-k films 
  The effects of particle crystallinity on mechanical strength of the low-k films are presented in Figure 4-5. It 
can be observed that the hardness and the elastic modulus of the mesoporous low-k films decreased with the 
increase of the particle crystallinity, and the mechanical strength of the film prepared with the noncrystalline 
silica was the highest (sample NCS). The hardness of sample NCS was 1.81 GPa, as shown in Figure 4-5, 
which was over 3 times higher than 0.44 GPa of the films prepared from the particles with the high 
crystallinity (sample HC-MFI), and which was 30 % higher than 1.39 GPa of the films with the low 
crystallinity (sample LC-MFI). The ratio of standard deviation (shown with error bars) to mean of the 
hardness (square symbols) of sample NCS was 6 %, which was much less than 22% of that of sample 
LC-MFI and 34% of that of sample HC-MFI. The smaller ratio of standard deviation to mean of the hardness 
suggests a better surface uniformity of the film made of the noncrystalline silica nanoparticles. Similarly, the 
elastic modulus of the films also followed the decreasing trend of hardness with large standard deviation as 
the particle crystallinity increased. This indicates that the hardness, the elastic modulus and the surface 
uniformity of sample NCS were much better than those of the crystalline samples (i.e., LC-MFI and HC-MFI). 
Note, it took only 27 h hydrothermal process to prepare a solution containing the noncrystalline silica particles, 
as compared to 156 or 168 h of two-stage hydrothermal processes for preparing the crystalline samples. It is 
not necessary to apply centrifugation processes to remove the large particles because only the small particles 
are in the solution, as shown in Figure 4-3. Therefore, a mesoporous low-k film with high mechanical strength 
can be successfully prepared with the short hydrothermal period of 24 h. Such an efficient process can save 
time and energy (i.e., the cost) for producing low-k films.  
 
The particles with higher crystallinity had been expected to possess higher mechanical strength than those 
with lower crystallinity. However, the hardness of the resulting films in this research is in the opposite trend. 
The measurements of pore volumes may provide the answer for the trend. Figure 4-5 shows the relation of 
pore volume and particle crystallinity of the samples. It can be observed that the total pore volume of NCS 
was 10 % less than that of LC-MFI (the low crystalline sample), and the hardness of NCS was 30 % higher 
than that of LC-MFI. This was in agreement with the general idea that the mechanical strength would 
decrease with the increasing of total pore volume of the film [65]. However, as comparing those of samples 
NCS and HC-MFI (the high crystalline sample), the total pore volume of the former was 23 % less than that 
of the latter, but the hardness of the former was 311 % much higher than that of the latter. The magnitude of 
the decreasing of hardness between these two samples was very much larger than that between samples NCS 
and LC-MFI. Even comparing with the two crystalline samples, HC-MFI and LC-MFI, the total pore volume 
of the former was only 17 % higher than that of the latter, but the hardness of the latter was 216 % still much 
higher than that of the former. As the particle crystallinity was increased, the magnitude of the increasing of 
the total pore volume was much less than that of the decreasing of the mechanical strength, revealing that the 
total pore volume was not the only factor to influence the mechanical strength of the mesoporous low-k films. 
The surface uniformity characterization on the films through a scanning electron microscope may provide 
more information for the observation.  
 
 43 
 
 
Figure 4-5. Hardness and elastic modulus of the mesoporous low-k films, exhibited with open square and red 
solid sphere symbols, respectively, and error bars (representing standard deviation of hardness or elastic 
modulus), and the total pore volume of powder samples, exhibited with open triangle symbols, prepared from 
coating solutions containing particles with different crystallinities. 
 
 
 
Figure 4-6. Surface topography images, (a) a lower resolution image with a scale bar of 1 micron meter, and 
(b) a higher resolution image with a scale bar of 200 nm, of the mesoporous low-k films prepared from 
coating solutions containing particles with different crystallinities. 
 
 45 
  Figure 4-8a and b show the nitrogen adsorption/desorption isotherms and the pore size distribution curves 
of the powder samples, NCS-D1 and NCS-D2, respectively. As shown in Figure 4-8a, both the isotherms 
were type-E hysteresis loops, indicating the formation of mesopores with ink-bottle geometry [109]. The 
mesopore sizes of samples NCS and NCS-D1, as shown in Figure 4-4b and in Figure 4-8b, respectively, are 
close to each other. For the sample NCS-D2 prepared from a more diluted coating solution with a dilution 
ratio of 5/5, the mesopores shrunk to smaller pore sizes. It may be that the micelles of Tween 80 became 
smaller in the more diluted NCS-D2 coating solution. Moreover, all the pore sizes of the three samples were 
smaller than 5 nm. This can prevent the sealing problem in the films in the later IC manufacturing processes 
[80, 81].
 
The mechanical strengths of all the films in Table 4-1 were all higher than that of the required values, 
elastic modulus of > 10 GPa and hardness of > 1 GPa, and the leakage current density of the films in Table 
4-1 was between 0.18 and 8.85 x 10
-7
A/cm
2
. In conclusion, a mesoporous low-k film prepared from an ethanol 
diluted coating solution, with a dilution ratio of 5/5, containing the noncrystalline silica particles and 
surfactant Tween 80 (Tween 80/ TEOS = 0.41) possessed a k value of 1.93, a leakage current of 2.61 x 
10
-7
A/cm
2
, an elastic modulus of 17.0 GPa, and a hardness of 1.73 GPa, which all meet the needs of the future 
IC industry. Moreover, the process for preparing the mesoporous low-k films with the noncrystalline silica 
particles was very short, so that the production cost can be saved.      
 
Table 4-1. Electronic and Mechanical Properties of Mesoporous low-k Films Prepared from Coating Solutions 
Containing  Non-crystalline Silica Particles and Surfactant Tween 80 
Sample 
Tween 80 
to TEOS 
(weight 
ratio) 
Dilution 
ratio
a
 
 
Film 
thickness 
(nm) 
Total 
pore 
volume 
(cm
3
/g) 
k  
value 
Leakage 
current 
(10
-7
A/ 
cm
2
) 
H
b
 
(GPa) 
E
c
 
(GPa) 
NCS 0.41 0 380 0.36 
2.26 
±0.05 
0.18 
1.81 
±0.11 
15.5 
±0.5 
NCS-D1 0.41 7/3 310 0.38 
2.05 
±0.04 
1.42 
1.46 
±0.19 
13.6 
±0.5 
NCS-D2 0.41 5/5 201 0.37 
1.93 
±0.04 
2.61 
1.73 
±0.30 
17.0 
±1.2 
NCS-1 0.65 0 375 0.44 
2.20 
±0.05 
8.85 
1.46 
±0.09 
13.0 
±0.3 
a
 dilution ratio represents the weight ratio of the coating solution of sample NCS to ethanol.
 b
 H represents the 
hardness of the films. 
c
 E represents the elastic modulus of the films.  
 
 47 
 
 
Figure 4-8. a) Nitrogen adsorption/desorption isotherms and b) pore size distribution curves from the powder 
samples prepared from coating solutions containing the non-crystalline silica particles with different dilution 
ratio. 
 
4-7 Summary  
  The noncrystalline silica particles with an average size of 4.6 nm and a narrow size distribution of between 
2 and 10 nm can be synthesized through a short hydrothermal process. The particles are amorphous in XRD 
characterization, and have no crystalline framework vibration in FTIR analysis. With a much complex and 
longer hydrothermal process, PSZ MFI zeolite nanocrystals with an average size of around 40 nm were 
obtained. It has been found that the total pore volume and the mesopore sizes of the powder sample prepared 
from the noncrystalline silica particles are less and smaller, respectively, than those of the crystalline powder 
samples. Due to the small and uniform particle size of the noncrystalline silica particles, the large voids (> 5 
nm) formed from the particle packing are not present in the sample. The mechanical strength of the films 
made of the nanocrystals was much weaker than that of the films made of noncrystalline particles due to the 
existence of cracks and large voids in the films. In contrast, the films made of noncrystalline particles showed 
high surface uniformity and there were no cracks and large voids in the films, thus resulting in a much higher 
 49 
Chapter 5  
Preparation of mesoporous low-k films from PSZ MFI nanocrystals 
synthesized through one-stage  
hydrothermal process 
 
5-1 Introduction  
  In chapter 3, a mesoporous PSZ MFI low-k film with a smooth surface, a k value of < 2, an elastic modulus 
of > 10 GPa, and a hardness of > 1 GPa was prepared from a centrifuged coating solution composed of 
surfactant Tween 80 and PSZ MFI nanocrystals synthesized through a two-stage hydrothermal process (60 °C 
for 2 days in the first stage, and 100 °C for 36 in the second stage). It took 180 to 192 h to prepare the 
mesoporous PSZ MFI silica low-k films, including 156 to 168 h to synthesis PSZ MFI nanocrystals. However, 
it is too long that result in high energy cost and limit the practical applicability in IC industry. In order to 
address the concerns, in the third part of this research, the processing time for preparing PSZ MFI 
nanocrystals should be cut down. First, the aging time was reduced from 3 days to 3 h. Then, the first stage, 
60 °C for 2 days, was omitted. After the first stage was omitted, this new process became a single stage 
process. The centrifugation time was also reduced from 24 h to 18 h. Therefore, the time for whole process 
has been reduced to around 39 to 51 h which is much shorter than that of the nanoparticles prepared with the 
two-stage hydrothermal process. The effects of particle crystallinity of the nanocrystals on the electrical and 
mechanical properties of the films are discussed, and an optima preparation condition is applied to prepare the 
mesoporous PSZ low-k films with k values of < 2 and high mechanical strength. Furthermore, characterization 
of particle crystallinity of the nanocrystals is provided by X-ray diffraction and FTIR analysis. Pore size 
distributions of samples prepared from coating solutions containing the nanocrystals are obtained from 
nitrogen adsorption/desorption isotherms. The surface topographies of the mesoporous low-k films are shown 
by SEM imagines that are strongly related to the mechanical strength of the films. The amount of silanol 
groups on particle surface is determined from 
29
Si MAS solid-state NMR spectra. 
 
5-2 Experimental section  
  The composition of the precursor solution has been presented in section 2-3.2. The solution was aged at 
30 
o
C for 3 h. The so-obtained solution was then applied to an one-stage hydrothermal reaction process, where 
the solution was heat treated at 100
 o
C for 36, 42, and 48 h. Once the solution prepared from the one-stage 
process was obtained, 10 ml of solutions was mixed with a surfactant, Tween 80, with a weight ratio of Tween 
80 to TEOS of 0.41, and then stirred at 30 °C for 3 h. 3 ml of the resulting solution was taken as the coating 
solution to produce the mesoporous PSZ MFI low-k films, or 10 ml of the resulting solution was put into a 
plastic tube and centrifuged for 18 h with a centrifugation speed of 1000 rpm. Subsequently, 3 ml of the 
centrifuged solution in the upper part of the plastic tube was taken as the coating solution to produce the 
mesoporous PSZ MFI low-k films.  
 
 51 
 
 
Figure 5-1. X-ray diffraction characterization of powders prepared from uncentrifuged coating solutions, 
samples 36BC, 42BC, and 48BC, and that from centrifuged conting solutions, samples 36AC, 42AC, and 
48BC.  
 
 
 
Figure 5-2. FTIR characterization of powders prepared from uncentrifuged coating solutions, samples 36BC, 
42BC, and 48BC, and that from centrifuged conting solutions, samples 36AC, 42AC, and 48BC.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 53 
mesopore volume is also small due to the small surface area under the curve of between 3 and 4 nm. A much 
larger open loop is shown on the isotherm of sample 48ORI in the subfigure a-48 that shows a combination of 
type-E and type-C hysteresis loop [106], indicating the formation of mesopores with ink-bottle geometry. A 
slow drop on the upper branch of the isotherm from P/Po 0.8 to 0.42 of sample 48 ORI in the subfigure a-48 is 
considered to be the ink-bottle mesopores with various neck diameters. The corresponding PSD curve 
calculated from the isotherm of sample 48ORI is mainly distributed between 3.5 and 4.5 nm and a much 
wider range between 4.5 and 12 nm. Such a broad size distribution curve is consistent with the large open 
loop on the isotherm of sample 48ORI, and is resulted from particle packing of the nanocrystals in sample 
48ORI. Furthermore, because the particle size and particle crystallinity of the nanocrystals in sample 48ORI 
are bigger and stronger, respectively, than those in samples 36ORI and 42 ORI (see Table 1), the size 
distribution of mesopores of sample 48ORI due to particle packing is wider than that of the other samples.  
 
 
 
 55 
noncrystalline silica particles. This is more pronounced after they are attracted by Tween 80 micelles, 
resulting in that the size distribution of mesopores formed by particle packing of the nanocrystals becomes 
broader and broader as the particle crystallinity increases. As a result, the mesopores by particle packing of the 
nanocrystals in sample 42BC is distributed between 4 and 15 nm (as shown in the subfigure b-42 in Figure 
5-3), and that in sample 48BC is distributed in a very wide range of between 4 and 40 nm (as shown in the 
subfigure b-48 in Figure 5-3).  
 
  After the coating solutions are centrifuged, all the isotherms of samples 36AC, 42AC, and 48AC also 
present the combination of type-C and type-E hysteresis loops, and the distributions of their mesopores are 
narrower than those of samples 36BC, 42BC, and 48BC as shown in the subfigures b-36, b-42, and b-48. The 
narrower distribution of mesopores is a result of removing big nanocrystals from the coating solutions of 
samples 36BC, 42BC, and 48BC, whose particle sizes are 38.4, 51.8, and 60.7 nm (see Table 5-1), 
respectively, as compared to the particle sizes of samples 36AC (37.4 nm), 42AC (44.1 nm), and 48AC (44.4 
nm). Therefore, the relative amounts of the noncrystalline silica particles to the nanocrystals of samples 36AC, 
42AC, and 48AC are higher than those of samples 36BC, 42BC, and 48BC, respectively, resulting in an 
increase of the amount of the mesopores (of between 3 and 4 nm) after burning out of Tween 80 micelles (see 
the subfigures b-36, b-42, and b-48).  
 
5-5 k values and mechanical strength of mesoporous low-k films made from PSZ 
nanocrystals 
   As shown in Table 5-1, the dielectric constants (k values) of mesoporous low-k films prepared from the 
uncentrifuged coating solutions (samples 36BC, 42BC, and 48BC) are increased with the increase of 
hydrothermal time. For the films prepared from the centrifuged coating solutions, the k values of the 
mesoporous low-k films of samples 36AC, 42AC are the same (without including standard deviation), and 
that of the film of sample 48AC is the smallest. The mechanical strength (elastic modulus and hardness) of the 
films prepared from either centrifuged or uncentrifuged coating solutions is decreased with the increases of 
hydrothermal time. With the same hydrothermal time, the k values of the films prepared from the centrifuged 
coating solutions are all smaller than those of the films prepared from the uncentrifuged coating solutions; 
nevertheless, the mechanical strength of the films from the centrifuged coating solutions are all higher than 
that from the uncentrifuged ones. It can be found that the films prepared from the centrifuged coating 
solutions of samples 36AC and 42AC possessed k values of < 2, low leakage current densities of order of 10
-8
, 
and qualified mechanical strength (hardness of > 1 GPa and elastic modulus of > 10 GPa) for the application 
in IC manufacturing industry. A noteworthy point to be emphasized is that the time for preparing the MFI-type 
PSZ nanocrystals in this research for synthesizing mesoporous low-k films take only 39 to 51 h (including 3 h 
aging time before hydrothermal synthesis), which is much shorter than the time (156 to 168 h including 72 h 
aging time before hydrothermal synthesis) needed for preparation of the nanocrystals in our previous study, 
with a two-stage hydrothermal process, and in other researches which claimed 144 to 196 h preparation time 
of the nanocrystals [77]. Even though the time for preparing the nanocrystals is much shorter in this research, 
the k values and mechanical strength of the resulting mesoporous low-k films are still smaller than 2 and high 
enough for the application in IC manufacturing industry.  
  
 57 
thermal expansion coefficients of the noncrystalline particles (2×10-6/oC), which are going to expand during 
calcination because of the positive coefficient, and the nanocrystals (-9×10-6/oC), which are going to shrink 
during calcination due to the negative coefficient [111, 112]. Such a large difference in the thermal expansion 
coefficients results in that the nanocrystals exhibit an intensive shrinkage to aggregate together, resulting in 
the formation of the cracks. Compared with samples 42BC and 48BC, the amount of the noncrystalline silica 
particles and of the silanol groups on the nanocrystals in sample 42BC are more than those in the other; 
therefore, the amount and the size of the cracks in sample 42BC are fewer and smaller, respectively, than 
those in sample 48BC. With the most noncrystalline silica particles and silanol groups on the nanocrystals, 
there are no cracks observed on the film of sample 36BC. Furthermore, as mentioned in chapter 4, the 
mesoporous low-k film prepared from the coating solution containing the noncrystalline silica particles also 
shows no cracks on its films surface (sample NCS in Figure 4-6), but the mechanical strength of sample NCS 
is higher than that of sample 36BC. This is because the sample NCS contains only the noncrystalline particles, 
there are many silanol groups in sample NCS. As shown in Figure 5-5-1, the intensity ratios of Q
4
/Q
3
 of 
sample NCS is much lower than the other three uncentrifuged samples, indicating the silanol groups in sample 
NCS is the most. Therefore, there are the most -Si-O-Si- groups formed through condensation reaction (via 
silanol groups) between the noncrystalline particles , resulting in the strongest mechanical strength of sample 
NCS.  
  
  In general, the k values of mesoporous low-k films are decreased with the increases of total pore volume. 
However, in this research the k values of the films prepared from the uncentrifuged coating solutions of 
samples 36BC, 42BC, and 48BC are increased with the increase of total pore volume (see Table 5-1), and 
sample 48BC possesses the highest k value. The existence of the cracks in the films is considered to be the 
main reason why that happened. The k values of the mesoporous low-k films are calculated from equation k = 
Cd /ε0A, where C and d are the capacitance and thickness, respectively, measured from the films, and ε0 and A 
are permittivity constant at vacuum (8.85×10-12 farad/m) and surface area (0.0052 cm2) of Al metal electrode 
deposited on the mesoporous low-k film, respectively. As the film thickness is decreased, the capacitance of 
the film is increased according to the equation. During the deposition of Al metal onto the film to form an 
electrode, there is a lot of Al metal diffusing into the big cracks on sample 48BC. Figure 5-6 shows an 
illustration of a cross section of the cracked film of sample 48BC that symbols d and d' represent the film 
thicknesses measured at the places without and with cracks, respectively. A higher capacitance is measured at 
the place with cracks because the film thickness at the place is thinner than that at the place without cracks. 
However, it is hard to measure the film thicknesses at all places with the cracks (see Figure 5-4, sample 48BC) 
because the sizes of the cracks distributed on the film are all different. Therefore, the thickness used for 
calculation the k value is the thick one, 464 nm, measured at the place of film without cracks. To calculate the 
k value with the high capacitance and the thickness of 464 nm, a high k value of 2.95 of sample 48BC is 
obtained. With fewer and without cracks on the films of samples 42BC and 36BC, respectively, they possess 
much lower k values. The leakage current density also shows the same increasing trend as the k values of 
sample 36BC, 42BC, and 48BC. This may be also a result of the diffusion of Al metal into the cracks during 
the deposition of Al electrode [114,115]. The leakage current density of sample 48BC (of order 10
-3
) is the 
highest of all samples because of its serious cracks. With fewer cracks, the leakage current density of sample 
42BC is much lower than that of sample 48BC. There is no crack observed on the film of sample 36BC; 
 59 
 
 
Figure 5-5. 
29
Si MAS solid-state NMR spectra from dried samples of both uncentrifuged (samples 36BC, 
42BC, and 48BC) and centrifuged coating solutions (samples 36AC, 42AC, and 48AC). 
 
 
Figure 5-5-1. 
29
Si MAS solid-state NMR spectra from dried samples of samples NCS, 36BC, 42BC, and 
48BC. 
 
 61 
However, the elastic modulus of sample 36AC is slight higher than that of sample 36BC because the film 
structure of sample 36AC is denser than that of 36BC. This can be demonstrated by the smaller mesopore 
sizes of < 6.5 nm in sample 36AC than those of < 11.5 nm in sample 36BC (see the subfigure b-36 in Figure 
5-3). In summary, for the films prepared with the same hydrothermal time, there are more noncrystalline silica 
particles to fill the cracks between the nanocrystals and more -Si-O-Si- bonds formed between the 
nanocrystals in the films prepared form the centrifuged coating solutions than those prepared from 
uncentrifugaed ones, so the amount and the sizes of the cracks become fewer and smaller, respectively. 
Therefore, the mechanical strength of the mesoporous low-k films prepared from the centrifuged coating 
solutions are stronger than that of the films prepared from the uncentrifuged coating solutions.  
 
  As shown in Table 5-1, the k values of mesoporous low-k films prepared from the centrifuged coating 
solutions of samples 36AC, 42AC, and 48AC are all lower than 2 and lower than the k values of the films 
prepared from the uncentrifuged coating solutions of samples 36AC, 42AC, and 48AC, respectively. This is 
also a result of the removal of big nanocrystals. After the removal of big nanocrystals, the amount of the 
cracks in the centrifuged samples is much fewer and smaller, respectively, than that in the uncentrifuged 
samples. As demonstrated previously, this can reduce the amount of the diffusion of Al metal into the cracks, 
and then reduce the k values. Compared with samples 48BC and 48AC, the k value of sample 48AC (1.46) is 
much lower than that of sample 48BC because the amount of the cracks is much decreased. Furthermore, the 
total pore volume of sample 48AC is the most of all centrifuged samples, resulting in that the k value of 
sample 48AC is the smallest. The decrease of the amount of the cracks also results in a lower k value (1.87) of 
sample 42AC than that of sample 42BC. However, without cracks in both samples 36BC and 36AC, the k 
value of 36AC is lower than that of sample 36BC. This is also a result of the removal of some big 
nanocrystals from the uncentrifuged coating solution of sample 36BC. After centrifugation, the film thickness 
of sample 36AC is 10 % lower than that of 36BC. Therefore, the completeness of the modification of the 
silanol groups in sample 36AC to become hydrophobic may become better than that in sample 36BC with 
thicker film that HMDS may not penetrate into the bottom of film of sample 36BC, resulting in a lower k 
value of sample 36AC. Compared with samples 48AC and 42BC, the amount of the cracks on the film of 
sample 48AC is more than the other, but the k value of sample 48AC is much smaller than that of sample 
42BC. This may be also a result of the thick film (494 nm) of sample 42BC. The silanol groups at the bottom 
of the film are hard to be modified to become hydrophobic, resulting in a higher k value of sample 42BC.  
 
The leakage current density of sample 48AC is 1000 time lower than that of sample 48BC, but it is still 
very high as compared to that of samples 36AC and 42AC, which possess very low leakage densities of order 
of 10
-8
. In summary, By controlling the hydrothermal time and applying a centrifugation step to remove big 
nanocrystals, the mesoporous low-k films prepared from the centrifuged coating solutions of samples 36AC 
and 42 AC possess k values of < 2, low leakage current densities of order of 10
-8
, and qualified mechanical 
strength (hardness of > 1 GPa and elastic modulus of > 10 GPa) for the application in IC manufacturing 
industry. Even though the k value of sample 48AC is very small, its mechanical strength is still far away from 
the criteria for the application in IC industry. Therefore, in order to prepare a mesoporous low-k film with high 
mechanical strength and a k value of < 2 from coating solutions containing the MFI-type PSZ nanocrystals, 
the relative amount of the noncrystalline silica particles and the nancrystals in the films should be controlled 
 63 
mechanical strength and k values of the mesoporous low-k films prepared from the centrifuged coating 
solutions are stronger and lower, respectively, than that of the films prepared from the uncentrifuged coating 
solutions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 65 
noncrystalline silica particles because, from the results of the first part of this research, the films prepared 
from the shorter hydrothermal period was considered to possess very stronger mechanical strength. The 
noncrystalline silica particles with an average size of 4.6 nm and with a ratio of optical density of 0 % can be 
synthesized through a short hydrothermal process. The particles are amorphous in XRD characterization, and 
have no crystalline framework vibration in FTIR analysis. With a much complex and longer hydrothermal 
process, PSZ MFI zeolite nanocrystals with an average size of around 40 nm were obtained. It has been found 
that the total pore volume and the mesopore sizes of the powder sample prepared from the noncrystalline 
silica particles are less and smaller, respectively, than those of the crystalline powder samples. Due to the 
small and uniform particle size of the noncrystalline silica particles, the large voids (> 5 nm) formed from the 
particle packing are not present in the sample. The mechanical strength of the films made of the nanocrystals 
was much weaker than that of the films made of noncrystalline particles due to the existence of cracks and 
large voids in the films. In contrast, the films made of noncrystalline particles showed high surface uniformity 
and there were no cracks and large voids in the films, thus resulting in a much higher mechanical strength. 
However, due to the presence of many silanol groups on the noncrystalline particles, the particles embedded 
in the deeper part of thicker films cannot be completely modified to become hydrophobic, resulting higher k 
values. The reduction of the film thickness has to be carried out with ethanol dilution, and therefore, a thinner 
mesoporous low-k film prepared from the non-crystalline particles can possess a k value of 1.93, a leakage 
current of 2.61 × 10-7A/cm2, an elastic modulus of 17.0 GPa, and a hardness of 1.73 GPa, which all meet the 
needs of the future IC industry. As compared to the whole preparation processes and time for the films made 
of crystalline particles, those for the films made of noncrystalline particles are much simpler and shorter, that 
can save energy (the cost) and time for producing future mesoporous low-k films.  
 
  In the first part of this research (chapter 3), the mesoporous PSZ MFI low-k film with a smooth surface, a k 
value of < 2, an elastic modulus of > 10 GPa, and a hardness of > 1 GPa was prepared from a centrifuged 
coating solution composed of surfactant Tween 80 and PSZ MFI nanocrystals synthesized through the 
two-stage hydrothermal process. It took 156 to 168 h to synthesis PSZ MFI nanocrystals. However, it is too 
long that result in high energy cost and limit the practical applicability in IC industry. In order to address the 
concerns, in the third part of this research (chapter 5), a fast hydrothermal synthesis process which takes only 
39 to 51 h (including aging time of 3 h) to prepare MFI-type PSZ nanocrystals has been developed in this 
research that is much shorter than the time needed (156 to 168 h) for preparing the nanocrystals with a 
two-stage hydrothermal process. By controlling the hydrothermal time and applying a centrifugation step to 
remove big nanocrystals, the ratio of optical density of the nanocrystal in the resulting centrifuged coating 
solution is smaller than 10 %, and mesoporous low-k films which possess k values of < 2, low leakage current 
densities of order of 10
-8 A/cm2, and high mechanical strength (hardness of > 1 GPa and elastic modulus of 
> 10 GPa) were successfully prepared from the centrifuged coating solutions containing the nanocrystals 
synthesized with the hydrothermal time of 36 and 42 h. The ratio of optical density (or particle crystallinity) 
of particles, a mixture of noncrystalline silica particles and the nanocrystals, in the film prepared from the 
centrifuged or uncentrifuged coating solution is a key factor influencing the electronic and mechanical 
property of the mesoporous low-k film. As the ratio of optical density is increased, the amount of the 
noncrystalline silica particles and of the silanol groups on the surface of the nancrystals in the film are both 
decreased, and the amount of the nanocrystals is increased. Moreover, as the ratio is higher than a critical 
 67 
 
References 
 
1. J. L. Hedrick, R. D. Miller, C. J. Hawker, K. R. Carter, W. Volksen, D. Y. Yoon, and M. Trollsås, 
Advanced Materials, 10 (1998) 1049-1053 
2. M. Morgen, J.-H. Zhao, C. Hu, T. Cho, P. S. Ho and E. Todd, JOM Journal of the Minerals, Metals 
and Materials Society, 51 (1999) 37-40 
3. S. J. Martin, J. P. Godschalx, M. E. Mills, E. O. Shaffer II, and P. H. Townsend, Advanced 
Materials, 12 (2002) 1769-1778 
4. K. Maex, M. R. Baklanov, D. Shamiryan1, F. lacopi1, S. H. Brongersma, and Z. S. Yanovitskaya, 
Journal of Applied Physics, 93 (2003) 8793-8841  
5. H. Deligianni, Meeting Abstracts, MA 2005-02 (2005) 1303 (208th Meeting of The 
Electrochemical Society - Meeting Abstracts) 
6. W.W. Lee and P.S. Ho, MRS Bulletin, 22 (1997) 19-23 
7. The International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors, 
http://www.itrs.net/Links/2008ITRS/Home2008.htm (2008) 
8. G. Maier, Progress in Polymer Science, 26 (2001) 3-65 
9. S.-M. Yuna, H.-Y. Changa, M.-S. Kangb, and C.-K. Choib, Thin Solid Films, 341 (1999) 109-111 
10. P. J. Bruinsma, N. J. Hess, J. R. Bontha, and J. Liu, Materials Research Society 
Symposium-Proceedings, 443 (1997) 105-110 
11. Q. Huo, D. I. Margolese and G. D. Stucky, Nature, 368 (1994) 317-321 
12. P. A. Kohl, A. Padovani, M. Wedladk, B. Dhananjay, A. S. A. Bidstrup, S. Robert, R. Larry, 
Materials Research Society Symposium-Proceedings, 565 (1999) 55-61 
13. C. J. Brinker, G. W. Scherer, Sol-Gel Science: The Physics and Chemistry of Sol-Gel Processing 
(1990) 518 
14. M. T. Anderson, P. S. Sawyer, Microporous and Mesoporous Materials, 20 (1998) 53-65 
15. T. Ramos, K. Roderick, A. Maskara,  Materials Research Society Symposium-Proceedings, 443 
(1997) 91-98 
16. S.S. Prakash, C.J. Brinker, A.J. Hurd,  Journal of Non-Crystalline Solids,190 (1995) 264-275 
17. M.-H. Jo, H.-H. Park, D.-J. Kim, S.-H. Hyun, S.-Y. Choi, and J.-T. Paik, Journal of Applied 
Physics,82 (1997) 1299-1304 
18. T. Mizuno, H. Nagata, and S. Manabe, Journal of Non-Crystalline Solids, 100(1988) 236-240  
19. B. P. Gorman, R. A. Orozco-Teran, J. A. Roepsch, H. Dong, R. F. Reidy and D. W. Mueller, 
Applied Physics Letters, 79  (2001) 4010-4012 
20. R. F. Reidy, B. P. Gorman, R. A. Orozco-Teran, J. A. Roepsch, H. Dong, D.W. Mueller, In: A.J. 
McKerrow, Y. Shacham-Ddiamand, S. Zaima and T. Ohba, Advanced Metallization Conference, 
Materials Research Society, (2001) 319-323 
21. H. Donga, B.P. Gormana, Z. Zhanga, R.A. Orozco-Terana, J. A. Roepschd, D. W. Muellerb, M. J. 
Kimc and R. F. Reidya, Journal of Non-Crystalline Solids, 350 (2004) 345-350  
 69 
45. S. Dai, Y. Shin, Y. Ju, M. C. Burleigh, J.-S. Lin, C. E. Barnes, and Z. Xue, Journal of the American 
Chemical Society, 122 (2000) 992-993 
46. M. C. Burleigh, S. Dai, E. W. Hagaman, and J. S. Lin, Chemistry of Materials, 13 (2001) 
2537-2546 
47. W. Yantasee, Y. Lin, X. Li, G. E. Fryxell, T. S. Zemanian, and V. V. Viswanathan, Analyst, 128 
(2003) 899-904 
48. X. B. Xu, Tian, J. Kong, S. Zhang, B. Liu, and D. Zhao, Advanced Materials, 15 (2003) 1932-1936 
49. A .Corma, Chemical Reviews, 97 (1997) 2373-2419 
50. J. Y. Ying, C. P. Mehnert, and M. S. Wong,  Angewandte Chemie International Edition, 38 (1999) 
56-77 
51. K. Ikeue, S. Nozaki, M. Ogawa, and M. Anpo, Catalysis Today, 74 (2002) 241-248 
52. Y. Shioya, K. Ikeue, M. Ogawa, and M. Anpo, Applied Catalysis A: General, 254 (2003) 251-259 
53. A. Kucernak and J. Jiang, Chemical Engineering Journal, 93 (2003) 81-90 
54. A. Cabot, J. Arbiol, A. Cornet, J. R. Morante, F. Chen, and M. Liu, Thin Solid Films, 436  (2003) 
64-69 
55. S. Baskaran, J. Liu, K. Domansky, N. Kohler, and X. Li, Advanced Materials, 12 (2000) 291-294 
56. C.-M. Yang, A. T.-Cho, F.-M Pan, T.-G. Tsai, and K.-J. Cho, Adanced Materials, 13 (2001) 
1099-1102 
57. C.-Y. Ting, C.-A. Wu, B.-Z. Wan, and W.-F. Wu,Journal of the Chinese Institute of Chemical 
Engineers, 34 (2003) 211-217 
58. C.-Y. Ting, D.-F. Ouyan, and B.-Z. Wan,Journal of the Electrochemical Society, 150 (2003) 
F164-F167 
59. C.-Y. Ting, D.-F. Ouyan, W.-F. Wu, and B.-Z. WanStudies in Surface Science and Catalysis, 146 
(2003) 391-394 
60. S.-B. Jung and H.-H. Park, Applied Surface Science, 244 (2005) 47–50 
61. P. J. Bruinsma, J. R. Bontha, J. Liu, and S. Baskaran, U.S. Pat. 5,922,299 (1999) 
62. D. Zhao, P. Yang, N. Melosh, J.  Feng, B. F. Chmelke, G. D. Stucky, Advanced Materials, 10 
(1998) 1380-1385 
63. G. Wirnsberger, P. Yang, B. J. Scott, B. F. Chmelka, G. D. Stucky, Spectrochimica Acta Part A, 57 
(2001) 2049–2060 
64. C.-Y Ting, D.-F. Ouyan, and B.-Z. Wan, in Program and Abstracts of 3rd International 
Mesostructured Materials Symposium, (2002) 146-147 
65. C.-Y. Ting, H.-S. Sheu, W.-F. Wu, and B.-Z. Wan, J. Electrochem. Soc. 154-1 (2007) G1-G5 
66. C.-Y. Ting, H.-S. Sheu, W.-F. Wu, B.-Z. Wan, Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis, 156 
(2005) 295-302 
67. F. K. de Theije, A. R. Balkenende, M. A. Verheijen, M. R. Baklanov, K. P. Mogilnikov, and Y. 
Furukawa, Journal of Physical Chemistry B, 107 (2003) 4280-4289 
68. C. N. Satterfield, Heterogeneous catalysis in industrial practice, 2nd edition, (1991) 133 
69. S.-B. Jung and H.-H. Park, Thin Solid Films, 494 (2006) 320-324 
70. J. Lee, H. Busta, R. Myers, T. Dear, M.R. Dokmeci, and J. Bernstein, Proceedings of SPIE, 4979 
(2003) 129-136 
 71 
97. D. J. Taylor and D. P. Birnie,Chemistry of Materials, 14 (2002) 1488-1492 
98. D. P. Bimie,  R. N. Vogt, M. N. Orr, and J. R. Schifko, Microelectronic Engineering, 29 (1995) 
189-192 
99. D. E. Haas, J. N. Quijada, S. J. Picone, and D. P. Birnie, Proceedings of SPIE, 3943 (2000) 280-284 
100. D. E. Haas and D. P. Birnie, Journal of Materials Science Letters, 20 (2001) 1763 – 1766 
101. D. P. Birnie, Journal of Materials Research, 16 (2001) 1145-1154 
102. D. E. Haas and D. P. Birnie, Journal of Materials Research, 16 (2001) 3355-3360 
103. D. E. Haas and D. P. Birnie, Journal of Materials Science, 37 (2002) 2109–2116 
104. D. P. Birnie, D. M. Kaz, and D. J. Taylor, J Sol-Gel Sci Technol, 49 (2009) 233–237 
105. Lange's Handbook of Chemistry (1967) 1661 
106. J. M. Thomas and W. J. Thomas, Principles and Practice of Heterogeneous Catalysis (1997) 275 
107. R. Ravishankar, C. E. A Kirschhock, P.-P. Knops-Gerrit, E. J. P. Feijen, P. J. Grobet, P. Vanoppen, 
F. C. De Schryver, G. Miehe, H. Fuess, B. J. Schoeman, P. A. Jacobs, and J. A. Martens, Journal of 
Physical Chemistry B, 103 (1999) 4960-4964 
108. W. H. Dokter, H. F. van Garderen, T. P. M. Beelen, R. A. van Santen, and W. Bras, Angewandte 
Chemie International Edition in English, 34 (1995) 73-75 
109. Q. Li, B. Mihailova, D. Creaser, and J. Sterte, Microporous Mesoporous Materials, 40 (2000) 53-62 
110. T. F. Retajczyk and A. K. Sinha, Thin Solid Films, 70 (1980) 241-247 
111. D. S. Bhange and V. Ramaswamy,Materials Research Bulletin, 41 (2006) 1392-1402 
112. Y. Kuwahara, T. Kamegawa, K. Mori, Y. Matsumura, and H. Yamashita, Topics in Catalysis, 52 
(2009) 643-648 
113. D. G. Peters, J. M. Hayes, and G. M. Hieftje, Chemical Separations and Measurement, Therry and 
Practice of Analytical Chemistry (197X) 731 
114. L. Y. Yang, D. H. Zhang, F. X. Deng and C. Y. Li, IPFA 2010 - 17th International Symposium on 
the Physical and Failure Analysis of Integrated Circuits (2010) 5532229  
115. J.-P. Barnes, D. Lafond, C. Guedj, M. Fayolle, P. Meininger, S. Maitrejean, T. David, N. Possémé, 
P. Bayle-Guillemaud. and A. Chabli, Journal of Physics: Conference Series, 26 (2006) 77–80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 73 
 
的最後一天。 
 
會議內容： 
 
    這次會議的參加人數將近 800人，其中一半以上是日本與韓國
人。名稱上雖然為東京會議以及亞太催化會議，不過也有為數不少的
歐美學者參與。我們台灣有約 38人參加。以往這個會議都是超過千
人以上的大會議，這次的規模比往年比較起來就小很多，或許是因為
全球經濟不景氣所導致與會人數的下降吧。這次會議所討論的議題是
屬能源以及環境的範疇。所以我在出發之前在大會網站上，從其所公
佈的會議議程中擬定了三項感興趣的題目，分別是能源相關議題 
(energy relative question), 纖維素的降解及其催化觸媒 (cellulose 
digestion and catalysts), 和奈米金觸媒 (nano-gold catalysts)。 
 
1、能源相關議題(energy relative question)： 
    7月 18日在Sapporo Convention Center註冊後，大會所安排的第
一場演講是東京大學的Kazunari Domen教授的演講，演講的題目是：
Toward large-scale solar fuel production using photocatalytic materials。
他們的目的是想要利用solar energy來電解H2O來產生氫氣，由於氫氣
是乾淨而且可重複使用的能源，對現在以及未來即將面對能源危機的
我們是一個具有重大意義的議題。他認為用d0過度金屬 (Ti4+, Zr4+, 
重要的再生能源，與太陽能、風能、地熱等一樣有取之不盡、用之不
竭的特性，在開發新能源的道路上，生質能源也成為許多學者研究的
對象。Keiichi Tomishige教授的演講題目是：Catalyst development for 
the hydrogenolysis of biomass-derived chemicals。利用Re、 Mo和W 
promoted 的Rh/SiO2 catalysts來進行Glycerol 轉化變成
1,5-Pentanediol的反應。ReOx、 MoOx和WOx這些添加物可以有效的
增進hydrogenolysis反應的活性，使得glycerol 先形成propanediols與
tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol之後再反應形成 1,5-Pentanediol的產物。 
 
2、纖維素的降解及其催化觸媒 (cellulose digestion and catalysts)： 
    同上所述，biomass我們可以將它轉換成 biomass energy或是
biomass- derived chemicals，這些對我們人類更有用途的產物，但是要
用什麼種類的 biomass？通常使用 biomass的材料多為廢棄物，這樣
一來整個 process就兼具廢棄物的回收處理與能源生產的雙重效益。
但是廢棄物還需要經過前處理等純化步驟，若是選用穀物應用於
biomass的研究則也許會有糧食短缺的問題。因此，目前文獻上最常
看到的是用纖維素 (cellulose) 來當作研究的材料，一則是因為纖維
素本身沒辦法被人所消化代謝掉；另一原因則是量多、取得方便。 
    此次的大會有許多學者談到纖維素的降解反應。Yoichi Ikeda等學
者，他們使用了 23種金屬氯化物當作觸媒，並在 5MPa氫氣壓力下進
Water：60 mL 
H2 presure：5 MPa (initial at RT) 
Temperature：463 K 
Time：24 hours 
以這樣的反應條件之下，Pt/ Al2O3觸媒對於cellulose轉化成為sugar 
alcohols 有約 30%的產率。若是換成其他的擔體，同樣地也有大約
25%的產率。另外，Yoshihiro Ogaki等學者所研究的對象為竹子
( bamboo )。他們認為bamboo是日本典型biomass的來源，利用固體酸
觸媒當作催化劑，可以分解其成為xylose。在 150oC的溫度下反應 4
個小時可以得到最大產率達 40.9 %。 
    中國大連所的 Na Ji等學者，他們發表的題目為 Highly Dispersed 
Metal-Promoted Tungsten Carbide as Efficient Catalysts for Direct 
Cellulose Conversion into Ethylene Glycol，他們用碳化鎢 (WC) 的觸
媒已經發過許多文獻在催化反應上有很多的應用。在這次的大會上，
他們也跟大家分享他們利用碳化鎢的觸媒來做 cellulose的降解反
應。從 Angewandte Chemie 2008年的期刊中第 47期第 8510頁裡，他
們用高分散性的金屬來 promote碳化鎢，得到的結果顯示不同的金屬
會有不同的催化路徑以及最終的產物。當用 Pt當作促進劑 (promoter) 
時，所得到的產物為 mannitol和 sorbitol；若以 Ni當作促進劑 
(promoter) 的話，則得到的產物是 ethylene glycol和其他的 polyols。 
Angewandte Chemie 2006, 45, 4648 這期刊裡他告訴我們 Au可以取代
Pt、Pd，對於液相的乙醇直接氧化成 acetic acid的反應中，含 Au的
負載觸媒有更高的轉化率以及產率。另外，在合成奈米金觸媒的合成
方式他所提到的一個方式是有別於一般文獻上常見的沉積沉澱法
( deposition -precipitation method )，如同 Chem. Eur. J. 2008, 14, 8456 – 
8460這篇期刊所示，是利用研磨烘乾的方式將奈米金粒子卡在具有
孔洞性的高分子材料裡面而形成奈米與孔洞結合的觸媒，然後直接在
甲醇溶液中做 benzyl alcohol的氧化反應。 
    除此之外還有許多的演講是蠻有想法的，譬如Tomohiro Fukura
等學者他們利用bipyridine的配位基讓它與Fe離子在Y沸石的孔洞內
形成complex，變成complex後的大小比原本Y沸石的孔洞還大，便可
以利用”ship-in-a-bottle”這種方式將催化反應中心限制在孔洞的裡
面；鄭淑芬老師實驗室的Shih-Yuan Chen則是利用含Zr的SBA-15來做
Pinacol rearrangement的反應；Rutger A. van Santen他們用Cr2+的dimer
來做glucose的isomerization反應；Hui Li他們合成中空的金屬球，發現
它對phenol氫化成cyclohexanone的反應活性比奈米顆粒的形式還要
來的高。 
 
發表的文章 
    本研究室這次參與大會所投稿的文章其題目為：Pretreatment 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/07/20
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 製備分子篩孔洞型二氧化矽膠體液及應用於製備低介電薄膜
計畫主持人: 萬本儒
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-002-089-MY2 學門領域: 觸媒及反應工程 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 以鹼式法製造低介電係數層之方法
(英文) Preparing meso-porous silica film with dielectric constant less than 2 by using basic 
solutions
成果歸屬機構
國立臺灣大學 發明人
(創作人)
萬本儒,呂信諺
技術說明
(中文) 在此揭露一種以鹼式法形成一低介電係數層之方法。此方法包括下步驟: (a)混
合四烷氧矽烷、乙醇、氫氧化四烷銨及水以形成第一混合物；(b)加熱第一混合
物以形成含有複數個非結晶含矽顆粒之第二混合物，加熱時間少於約36小時，且
非結晶含矽顆粒之粒徑小於約10 nm；(c)於第二混合物中加入一界面活性劑以形
成一膠體溶液，膠體溶液中之界面活性劑的重量百分濃度為約1%至約20%；(d)將
膠體溶液塗佈在基材上，並在基材上形成一膠體層；以及(e)加熱膠體層至一定
條件，以將膠體層轉變為低介電係數層。
(英文) Discloses herein is a method of forming a low-k layer by using a basic solution. The 
method includes the following steps. Tetraalkoxysilane, ethanol, tetraalkylammonium 
hydroxide and water are mixed in a molar ratio between1:0.1:0.1:5 and 1:10:0.5:36 to 
form a first mixture. The first mixture is heated for a period of less than about 36 hours to 
form a second mixture containing a plurality of non-crystalline silicon-containing 
particles, wherein each of the non-crystalline silicon-containing particles has a particle 
size of smaller than about 10 nm. Subsequently, a surfactant is added to the second 
mixture to form a colloid solution, in which the surfactant has a concentration of about 1-
20% by weight of the colloid solution. The colloid solution is coated on a substrate and 
thereby forming a colloid layer thereon. Then, the colloid layer is heated at a condition 
sufficient to transform the colloid layer into the low-k layer.
產業別 其他工業製品製造業
技術/產品應用範圍 製造低介電薄膜技術/介電係數小於2並具高機械強度, 該產品為未來積體電路工業所需.
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
可技術移轉於台灣及美國之積體電路工業
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
專任助理 0 0 100%  
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 ■申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
已發表兩篇國際論文(Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2010, 49, 6279–6286 and 2011, 50, 3265–
3273)。 
兩篇中華民國專利(編號:99115320 及 99143498)及兩篇美國專利(編號:12/753,109 及
13/040,431)申請中。 
