  
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
█ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期： 年 月 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：研製高靈敏度陣列式微量氫氣感測電路 
計畫主持人： 林坤緯        
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-324 -046- 學門領域：微電子 
技術/創作名稱 研製高靈敏度陣列式微量氫氣感測電路 
發明人/創作人 林坤緯 
中文：本計畫是在研製一種高靈敏度之半導體式氫氣感測器，結合
電路製作成之氫氣偵測器。在半導體感測氣的作法為，在磊晶之後
接著利用真空蒸鍍的技術，於 n型半導體薄膜表面蒸鍍一層金鍺鎳
合金做為電晶體之汲極以及源極或者為二極體之陰極。並且在 n型
半導體薄膜表面成長氧化層，並在此氧化層上蒸鍍鉑金屬，作為二
極體式感測器之蕭特基極。由於鉑金屬對氫氣具有良好的觸媒活
性，當氫氣分子吸附於鈀金屬表面時會被解離為氫原子，而大部分
氫原子將會擴散穿透鈀金屬，並於鈀金屬與氧化層薄膜介面造成極
化作用形成偶極矩層，此一偶極矩層將改變鈀金屬與氧化層介面之
電場，進而降低了金屬-半導體蕭特基能障高度。因此，當接觸氫
氣後，將改變電流電壓特性。經由實驗結果顯示，本感測器在含有
不同氫氣濃度的空氣環境中，其順向及反向電流將會隨氫氣含量增
加而增加，而在感測電路上則做到以陣列式感測不同氫氣濃度並且
達到快速量測之目的。 
技術說明 
英文：In this project, we propose a high-sensitivity 
semiconductor-based hydrogen sensor and its readout circuit. After the 
expitaxial growth, drain and source contacts were deposited on the 
n-GaAs active layer by AuGe/Ni metal. An oxide layer was form on 
the active layer. Then, Pd metal alloy is evaporated on the surface of 
the membrane as the gate electrodes, by the vacuum evaporation 
technique. Due to the catalytic performance of Pd metal, the adsorbed 
hydrogen molecules on the surface of the Pd metal are dissociated into 
hydrogen atoms. The hydrogen atoms diffuse and pass through the Pd 
metal and form a dipole layer at the interface between the Pd metal. 
This dipole layer will change the electrical field at Pd/oxide interface   
and further lower the metal-semiconductor Schottky barrier height. 
Therefore, the current-voltage (I-V) characteristics will be modulated 
after the introduction of hydrogen gas. From the experimental results, 
the forward and reverse currents in the I-V characteristics of the sensor 
are both increased with increasing hydrogen concentration in air. 
Combining the hydrogen sensor and hydrogen sensing circuit, the 
different hydrogen concentrations with different hydrogen sensors can 
be detected quickly. 
附件二 
  
研製高靈敏度陣列式微量氫氣感測電路 
Development and fabrication of high sensitivity micro-hydrogen sensing array 
circuit 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-324 -046- 
執行期間：97 年 8 月 1 日 至 98 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：林坤緯副教授  執行單位:朝陽科技大學資訊工程系 
Email:kwlin@cyut.edu.tw 
 
一、 中文摘要 
本計畫主要目的為製造與研究陣列式高
靈敏度之微量氫氣感測電路，原安排為兩年期
的計畫內容，雖然僅獲一年補助，仍然積極達
成原先設定之目標，因此，除了感測輸出電路
晶片也製作完成。 
本研究計畫之氫氣感測器具有新型、體積
小、製程簡易等優點，感測電路則將製作成陣
列式氫氣感測晶片。本計畫之重點可分為(1)
元件部分:以研製金屬-半導體、金屬-氧化層-
半導體以及具有加熱裝置之砷化鋁鎵蕭特基
二極體氫氣感測器，並於元件製作完成後通入
各種濃度氫氣，包括在室溫環境以及不同溫度
下對感測元件的穩態及暫態特性的量測，並分
析當通入不同濃度之氫氣和在不同操作溫度
時氫氣在感測元件上的氫氣覆蓋率，以及觸媒
金屬的影響，諸如：穩態輸出電流、閘極位障、
暫態氫氣響應等等，進而建立砷化鋁鎵氫氣感
測器之感測機制(2)設計並製作其輸出電路:
利用製造介面氧化層達到高靈敏度氫氣感
測，以及利用陣列式感測電路製作成晶片，並
對其進行量測，達到實用化之目的。 
 
關鍵字：氫氣感測器、讀出電路、偶極距 
 
英文摘要 
The aim of this project is to fabricate a 
compound semiconductor-based hydrogen 
sensor and micro-hydrogen sensing array circuit. 
The original purposes of this 2-years long- term 
project are to fabricate and investigate the  
Schottky diode based hydrogen gas sensors and 
high sensitivity micro sensing array circuit. In 
this project, the hydrogen sensors have the 
advantages of new, small and ease fabrication 
and its readout circuit has multi-hydrogen detect 
function. The experiments include the steady- 
and transient-state measurements under the 
introduction different concentration of hydrogen 
gases at room temperature and different 
operation temperature, the hydrogen coverage 
with the introduction different-concentration 
hydrogen gases at different temperature, the 
performance of hydrogen sensors with different 
catalytic metals. The device behaviors including 
breakdown voltage, output current, gate barrier 
height, leakage current and capacitance are also 
studied. Finally, the high-performance hydrogen 
sensors can be served as hydrogen sensing 
circuit for medical application with combining 
the biological and medical knowledge and 
technology. 
The execution of this project has significant 
benefit in the investigation and development of 
hydrogen detection. In addition, this hydrogen 
sensor can be fabricated with optoelectronic 
device in integrated circuit, simultaneously. 
Thus, the smart integrated sensor device with the 
detection of photoelectron and hydrogen can be 
realized. 
Keywords: hydrogen sensor, readout circuit, 
dipole 
 
二、 計畫的緣由與目的 
Due to the rapid development of sensors in 
  
adsorption and desorption measurement, the 
devices were placed in a closed stainless-steel 
reaction chamber with a gas flow tube and a 
regulating valve. Different concentrations of 
hydrogen gas, i.e., 15, 48, 97, 202, 537, 1010, 
4940, and 9090ppm H2/air, were employed in 
this study. The chamber was maintained at one 
atmosphere pressure with a continuous and 
stable gas flow rate of 500sccm.  
In order to measure the different hydrogen 
sensing characteristics of the studied devices, 
simultaneously, a multiplexing circuit with two 
input terminal is required. Fig. 2 shows the 
integrated circuit which is connected with the 
studied devices. The integrated circuit includes 
four parts. Part A allows input several hydrogen 
signals/hydrogen sensors, which was fabricated 
as sensor array. Device A and Device B were set 
here. Part B is the switch circuit. Part C is a 
decoder. Part D is the readout circuit. The top 
view of micro-hydrogen sensing array circuit is 
shown in Fig. 3. 
 
四、 實驗結果與討論 
The Schottky barrier height φb could be 
determined from 
 φb = (kT/q)ln(A**T2/Js)         (1) 
where Js, , A** , k, and T are the reverse 
saturation current density, effective Richardson 
constant, Boltzmann’ constant, and absolute 
temperature, respectively. Based on the 
thermionic emission model, the ideality factor n 
is given as : 
 )
ln
(
I
V
kT
qn ∂
∂=      (2) 
Based on the thermionic-emission transport 
mechanism, as the applied forward voltage V > 
3kT/q, the Schottky barrier height φb can be 
approximately calculated as Eqs. (1) and (2),  
 
and   3
2*
** 4
h
qkmA sπ=   (3) 
where k the Boltzmann constant, h the 
Planck constant, and ms the electron effective 
mass in the InGaP, respectively. Figures 4(a) and 
4(b) illustrate the Schottky barrier height as a 
function of temperature with different hydrogen 
concentrations for studied Pd-InGaP MOS and 
MS Schottky diodes. Clearly, from Figs. 4(a) 
and 4(b), under the hydrogen-contained ambient, 
the Pd-MOS Schottky diode exhibits a relatively 
large reduction of φb magnitude especially in low 
hydrogen concentration regimes. Figures 5(a) 
and 5(b) show the transient response curves 
upon the introduction and removal of 97, 537, 
and 9090ppm H2/air gases under the applied 
forward bias of 0.4V at 400K for Pd/InGaP MOS 
and MS Schottky diodes, respectively. All of the 
response curves shift rapidly from transient state 
to steady state upon hydrogen adsorption (point 
A) and hydrogen desorption (point B). With 
increasing the hydrogen concentration from 97 
to 9090ppm H2/air, the response time constant of 
adsorption (τa) for the studied MOS (MS) 
Schottky diode is decreased from 35 (64) to 5.4 
(7.8) sec. The initial change rate in current Δ 
(ΔI)/Δt is increased from 0.19 (0.1) to 14.4 (6.8) 
μA/sec. It is known that, from experimental 
results, the MOS structure has a shorter response 
time. 
 
五、結論 
In summary, Pd/InGaP hydrogen sensors 
based on the MOS and MS Schottky diodes have 
been fabricated and studied. The studied devices 
exhibit significantly wide operating temperature 
regimes. Even at 300K and low hydrogen 
concentration of 15ppm H2/air, the remarkable 
hydrogen detection can be observed. Under the 
presence of oxide layer in device structure, the 
hydrogen detection sensitivity is improved. 
These values confirm that hydrogen atoms 
populated at the interface between Pd metal and 
oxide layer causes the improved hydrogen 
detection characteristics of MOS type structure. 
Furthermore, fast transient responses of studied 
devices exhibit the promise for microsensor 
applications.  
本研究團隊於本研究計畫今年發表五篇
國際期刊論文以及國際研討會論文兩篇 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 The top view of the studied circuit. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4(a) Barrier height as a function of 
hydrogen concentration in air for the studied 
Pd/InGaP MOS Schottky diodes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4(b) Barrier height as a function of 
hydrogen concentration in air for the studied 
Pd/InGaP MS Schottky diodes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5(a) Transient response curves upon the 
introduction and removal of 97, 537, and 
9090ppm H2/air gases of the studied Pd/InGaP 
MOS Schottky diode at 400K. The applied 
forward voltage is 0.4V. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5(b) Transient response curves upon the 
introduction and removal of 97, 537, and 
9090ppm H2/air gases of the studied Pd/InGaP 
MS Schottky diode at 400K. The applied 
forward voltage is 0.4V. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
子技術的巨大進步。因此筆者期望可以參加此研討會，能將所做的研究與目前
的潮流相結合，這是一個相當具有水準的研討會，收錄共有來自美國、澳洲、
台灣、加拿大、義大利、中國、香港、法國、日本、印度、波蘭、馬來西亞、
韓國等國家學者的論文。 
 筆者研究之重心與發表之論文為 On an InP/InGaAs heterobipolar 
transistor with an InAlGaAs/InP step-graded heterostructure collector。
此 session 係於哈爾濱友誼宮舉辦，壁報論文共包含 49 篇。筆者獲國科會補助
得以參與此盛，於此深表感謝。 
筆者發表之 On an InP/InGaAs heterobipolar transistor with an 
InAlGaAs/InP step-graded heterostructure collector。在該文中，主要係
於利用基極層與集極層間導入一由四元化合物砷化銦鋁鎵材料所構成之步階式
集極層結構，使基-集極接面位障尖峰減緩；再者，此四元化合物砷化銦鋁鎵所
構成之步階式集極層結構係由不同大小能隙之複數步階層所組合而成，而此複
數步階層之排列係自基極層往集極層方向逐漸增加其能隙值，且些複數步階層
之能隙係值係大於基極層之能隙值且小於集極層之能隙值，因此，具較佳之崩
潰特性。此外，常見於傳統雙異質接面雙極性電晶體的電流阻擋效應、遲滯現
象已不復見。因此，該雙異質接面雙極性電晶體元件極適合應用於高功率消耗
與高溫電子電路。於發表論文過程期間，不少的參觀專家學者對此論文頗感興
趣，紛紛與筆者討論相關細節，其中包括應用以及目前以及未來研究的方向及
瓶頸，筆者除了細加以解說外並與他們討論結合其他領域了可能性，可說獲益
