行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
『植基於 NEMO 移動型網路環境下研究合適 HMIPv6 之行動
管理機制暨群播路由通訊協定』 
計畫編號：NSC 98－2221－E－235－006－ 
執行期限：98 年 8月 1日至 99 年 7月 31 日 
主持人：蔡俊賢   私立中州技術學院資訊工程系 
 
 
一、中文摘要 
最近移動型網路(NEMO)雖然正熱烈地
討論著，但是應用於高速火車上之 NEMO 卻
仍未被合理的設計。 此外，傳統 NEMO 大
都採 NBS 或 RO-HMIPv6 基礎原理來做，導
致引發沉長 pinball routing 與大量
binding update 問題。 為了解決這些問
題，我們提出一個適合 802.20 網路環境第
三 層 NEMO 行 動 管 理 機 制 ， 稱 之 為
Vehicular HMIPv6(V-HMIPv6)。 此外，本
計畫也基於 V-HMIPv6 基礎之上設計
multicast service。 為了支援 V-HMIPv6
運作，我們需要設計 SBC-cache，而本機制
設計之優點不僅具有最佳路徑解，同時也
降低了大量 binding update 問題。 最後，
系統模擬結果也證實了所提出V-HMIPv6機
制比傳統 NEMO 標準機制來得好。 
關鍵詞：移動型網路(NEMO)、IPv6、HMIPv6、行動管理
(Mobility Management)、802.20、群播(multicast) 
 
Abstract 
Recently, the network mobility (NEMO) is 
increasing in a hot topic. But, issues for high 
speed-based vehicular applications such as 
High Speed Rail are still not addressed. 
Moreover, most part of the traditional NEMO 
schemes has been designed based upon the 
NBS (NEMO Basic Support Protocol) in 
RFC 3963 or the Route 
Optimization-Hierarchical Mobile IPv6 with 
NEMO (RO-HMIPv6) in a Draft. However, 
the NBS and RO-HMIPv6 suffer from a 
significant number of signaling messages in 
related to a series triangle routing and 
binding update problems, respectively. 
Therefore, we propose a novel mobility 
management scheme for L3 (layer 3) 802.20 
NEMO environment, called Vehicle-based 
HMIPv6 (V-HMIPv6), to eliminate these 
drawbacks. Moreover, multicast extension 
for VHMIPv6 is also presented in this paper. 
For supporting V-HMIPv6 operation, a 
specific binding cache (SBC) needs to be 
designed. Our scheme takes the advantages 
of NBS and RO-HMIPv6 that not only with a 
route optimization but also reduces the signal 
overhead of binding update generated at the 
same time by using our proposed SBC. 
Simulation study has demonstrated that a 
better performance can be achieved by 
V-HMIPv6 over the traditional NEMO 
軸 發 展 出 來 ， 但 都 依 賴 於 mobile 
host/mobile router 的 home agent(HA)，
導 致 沉 長 的 pinball route 或
registration storm 問題(即使許多研究
學者都有做到 route optimization)，如此
將大大降低網路效能。 特別是遇到高速火
車頻繁進行無線訊號換手(handoff)時，其
相對應的HA註冊訊號量就會過多並同時充
滿於網路中，使的網路效能造成嚴重雍塞。 
本研究主要利用 cache 的概念並來解決目
前高速火車上面大量 mobile hosts 的同步
註冊風暴問題，以提高移動型網路效能。 
目前，其應用於高速火車方面的 NEMO 研究
結合大量 MHs’ binding 議題不算太多(可
查 找 IEEE 論 文 集 網 站
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/Xplore/gu
esthome.jsp)，因此本研究計畫的成果相
對之下更顯得重要，此外也可提供對此有
興趣的學者們做為基礎並進行更進一步的
相關研究與討論。 
本計畫執行期限為一個年度計畫案，
其研究成果包括設計一合適之NEMO網路第
三層路由通訊協定與行動管理機制，此外
也針對 Multicast service 部份進行延伸
之研究，目前成果將會有三篇論文產出如
下:  
(1)投稿會議論文一篇(屬 EI 索引)被接受
[1]，國科會補助 3萬元。 
(2)九月份已將完整版本(字數約8,725字)
投稿國際知名 SCI 期刊 Elsevier COMNET 
(Journal of Computer Networks)，已將
國科會編號寫入該 paper 中，目前審查進
行中，請參考文獻[2] 
(3)更進一步 Multicast extension 完整版
本，即將完成最後修訂，預計將投稿國際
知名期刊 Elsevier COMNET (Journal of 
Computer Networks)，已將國科會編號寫
入該 paper 中，請參考文獻[3]。 
五、參考文獻 
[1] *Chun-Shian Tsai, “A High Speed-based 
Vehicular Application for Wireless Network 
Mobility (NEMO) Environment,” 2010 IEEE 
ICCNT, Bangkok, Thailand, April 23-25, 2010, 
pp. 162-167. (NSC98-2221-E-235-006) (EI, 
published) 
[2] *Chun-Shian Tsai, “An Enhancement of 
Binding Update for Vehicular HMIPv6 in 
Wireless Network Mobility Environment,”  
submitted to Elsevier Journal of Computer 
Communications (COMCOM), 2010.(SCI, 
Impact Factor=1.201) 
[3] *Chun-Shian Tsai, “The Multicast Service for 
High Speed Vehicle upon the Nested Network 
Mobility Management,” (Underway) will be 
submitted to Elsevier Journal of Computer 
Communications (COMCOM), 2010.(SCI, 
Impact Factor=1.201) 
 
 
 
above. Thus, OHNISHI et al. [10] proposed a NEMO Draft 
in adopting Route Optimization-HMIPv6 (RO-HMIPv6) for 
the NEMO technology to support a hierarchical micro-
mobility management and becoming more effective for 
comparing with NBS in terms of L3 routing efficiency. 
However, a shortcoming still remains as below. When an 
MR leaves its service area, all MHs need to do binding 
update with their HAs at the same time. This kind of issue is 
called a “Registration Storm (RS)” problem in this paper. 
Occurring in the same problem, KAWANO et al. [11] 
propose to manage the mobility of mobile hosts in a single 
mobile network using multiple MAPs whose domains 
partially overlap with each other. Through using these 
MAPs, loaded traffic is shared and distributed on them 
respectively, But, the advantage is only restricted under 
these overlapped MAP domains. Without in these domains, 
the binding updates should be repeated by these MHs at the 
same time. The RS problem is still happening and this brings 
out significant number of signaling overheads including with 
extra registration cost, binding cost, handoff latency and 
packet loss.  
Up to now, the most part of the literatures on NEMO 
subject occur in either the binding update problem (i.e. 
micro-mobility issue) of MIPv6 of NBS-like schemes or the 
RS problem of RO-HMIPv6 applied schemes which remain 
unsolved issues for future work. In order to solve the 
drawbacks, we propose a novel mobility management 
scheme for NEMO to enhance the binding update of 
HMIPv6 which is called Vehicle-based HMIPv6 (V-
HMIPv6) in this paper. For supporting V-HMIPv6 operation 
well, besides a little modification from the message format 
of HMIPv6 protocol, a Specific Binding Cache (SBC) also 
needs to be elaborately designed. Our scheme takes 
advantages of NBS and RO-HMIPv6 that not only with a 
route optimization but also reduces the signal overhead for 
binding update generated at the same time in managing 
network mobility by using SBC-cache associated with the 
modified message format. On the design of the V-HMIPv6, 
secure information during the data delivery is required to be 
protected. Thus, a simple concept for the security supporting 
is also mentioned in this paper. Lastly, simulation results 
demonstrate that our proposed scheme for NEMO has the 
better performance in comparing with the other traditional 
NEMO technologies.   
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section II 
proposes a novel mobility management scheme called 
Vehicle-based Hierarchical Mobile IPv6 (V-HMIPv6) for 
eliminating the network mobility problem by using our 
proposed SBC-cache. Simulation environment and results 
for performance evaluation are presented in section III. 
Finally, section IV concludes this paper. 
II. PROPOSED METHOD 
A. Basic idea 
For traditional NEMO mobility management as 
mentioned above, MH and MR have their individual home 
agents. Each time for handoff, the MR and MH tend to bind  
 
 
the current point of attachment with their HAs, respectively. 
Regardless the location of MR, all traffic designated to MHs 
within mobile network is transmitted to MH’s HA first and 
then the MR’s HA. This can lead a long routing path and 
serious signal overhead. Thus, a new concept for NEMO 
mobility management, which is different from the traditional 
NEMO protocols, called Vehicle-based HMIPv6 (V-
HMIPv6) is proposed in this paper. Our proposed method 
has a little modified in the message format of the HMIPv6, 
and mobile router can act as a super agent (or a proxy) on 
behalf of all MHs within the mobile network to do binding 
updates with MH’s HA to bypass the MR’s HA. In order to 
achieve this goal, the functionality of the MR and HA need 
to be enhanced by adding a specific binding cache (SBC) on 
them, respectively. This is also our basic idea. 
In two message formats for local binding update and 
MAP option, there is a little modification from the 
standardized HMIPv6 [12]. For MAP option message, there 
is a V flag added in reserved field. The V flag is set to 
indicate that an RA (router advertisement) message is sent 
from a mobile router. On the other hand, there are three new 
flags (V, I, N) added in the reserved field of local binding 
update message. These flags are mentioned as follows. If the 
V flag is set to 1, it introduces that a local binding update is 
sent from a mobile router. Since the MAP in standardized 
HMIPv6 knows nothing about the mobile host’s real home 
address, the I flag is set to indicate that the MH has 
responsibility to bind about MH’s information to its MAP 
which is the mobile router in this paper. The N flag indicates 
a disabled binding update to home agent. The N flag should 
be used together with the V flag. When setting N and V flags 
to 1, the MR disables the binding update to its home agent 
and it redirects the message to MHs’ home agent which is an 
alternate home agent binding update.  
We consider that if a moving MR can act as a super 
agent on behalf of MHs to bind update with MHs’ HA (but 
not MR’s HA) then the traffic destined to MR’s HA will 
redirect to the MR directly, and the drawback as mentioned 
above is also solved. In our proposed method, mobile router 
is always recommended as an MAP selection. As displayed 
in Figure 1, the format of the specific binding cache can be 
shown in MR and HA respectively. For Figure 1-(a), there 
are four fields defined in MR’s binding cache related to 
MH’s information. The HoAMH indicates an MH’s home 
address, the HAMH is an address of MH’s home agent, and 
the RCoAMH and LCoAMH introduce the regional care-of 
address and the on-link care-of address for mobile host, 
respectively. On the other hand, for Figure 1-(b), we add an 
extra binding cache at HA for redirecting traffic to the 
HoAMH HAMH RCoAMH LCoAMH 
HoAMR Prefixold/len RCoAMR Members
(a) SBC-cache structure in mobile router  
(b) SBC-cache structure in MH’s home agent  
Figure 1. Newly defined Information in specific binding cache
163
Authorized licensed use limited to: C. S. Tsai. Downloaded on June 07,2010 at 12:33:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 (a) SBC-cache in MR 
 
(b) SBC-cache in HA 
Figure 3. The content of SBC-cache as N mobile hosts joined 
 
binding update and data delivery to MR’s HA should be 
bypassed to it.  
As for multiple mobile hosts in a mobile router, the 
content of SBC-cache for MR and HA is illustrated in 
Figure 3-(a) and Figure 3-(b), respectively. Note that in 
second field of SBC-cache in MR, the home agent of all 
MHs is the same only for this example. If there are different 
HAs existing, MR has responsibility to do binding update to 
each HA. It is also important for MR to bind only time once 
there is existed in multiple MHs on the same HA. 
 
C. Route Optimization (RO) 
Because the MH and MR can execute the standard 
MIPv6 route optimization function by sending a binding 
update message to a CN and the CN also maintains a 
specific binding cache (the same to HA), the CN can send 
packets directly to the mobile network. The mobile router 
then relays the packets to the MH by using an IPinIP tunnel.  
D. Multicast Service 
For this paper, we focus on discussions of L3 (layer 3, 
network layer) topic. It is more interesting in the routing 
performance on “network layer” because NEMO needs to 
have a simple and redirected design on improving network 
routing performance. Following this action, then it would 
have a simple design on a “similar multicast” for binding 
update only one-time by using the MR associated with the 
proposed SBC-cache. Given an example and display it in 
Figure 4-(b), the home agent of MRs is initially assumed 
from the base station BS0, and the multicast forwarding can 
be presented by SBC-cache on HA and MRs, respectively. 
The HAMH obtained information from redirected binding of 
MRs, and has responsibility to gather the relation for 
multicast members. For each mobile router, a multicast 
forwarding table (MFT) is also required for taking suitable 
forwarding route for mobile hosts. As shown in Figure 4-(a), 
the data structure of MFT consisting of three fields is 
defined in each MR’s MFT entry: (1) Group ID, (2) Uplink 
Forwarding Branch Information (Uplink RCoA), and (3) 
Downlink Forwarding Branch Information (Downlink 
LCoA). Group ID records the identification (usually a class-
D IP address) of the group. Uplink Forwarding Branch 
Information records the uplink RCoA’s IP address for 
mobile router. Downlink Forwarding Branch Information 
records the downlink LCoA’s IP address for mobile router.  
 
(a) Data structure for multicast forwarding table 
 
 
(b) An example for multicast forwarding route 
Figure 4. Multicast forwarding presented by SBC-cache 
 
An example for mobile router MR0 records three entries 
in group id G1, uplink RCoA address for BS1_RCoAMR0 and 
downlink LCoA address for BS0_LCoAMR2. The term 
BS1_RCoAMR0 indicates that the regional care-of-address 
(RCoA) of MR0 configured in the BS1 subnet, and the term 
BS0_LCoAMR2 presents that the on-link care-of-address 
(LCoA) of MR2 configured in the BS0 subnet.  
Please note that the multicast extension is addressed in 
part of this paper and remains in available future work. Thus, 
we merely mentioned a simple and feasible solution in this 
paper. The further research is underway and this work was 
supported in part by the National Science Council, Taiwan, 
R.O.C., under grant no. NSC98-2221-E-235-006. 
III. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 
The NEMO network topology in the simulation is 
introduced by an 8x8 mesh. Each node in the mesh 
represents a base station (BS) and corresponding node (CN) 
is located at the corner of the mesh. Initial location for fifty-
six mobile routers is randomly distributed in the mesh 
network. Each MR equips with four ARs and there are 
mobile hosts (for number between 1~100) roaming between 
access routers (AR) in low mobility. The moving direction 
of all mobile routers is separated in MRx and MRy. The MRx 
and MRy present that a mobile router is moving straightly 
toward a horizontal and vertical direction, respectively. In 
each time slot, the initial environment is randomly re-
assigned. Total run time in the simulation is 500,000 time 
slots which mean that there are totally 500,000 samples to 
be simulated. 
165
Authorized licensed use limited to: C. S. Tsai. Downloaded on June 07,2010 at 12:33:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 ˃
ˈ˃˃
˄˃˃˃
˄ˈ˃˃
˅˃˃˃
˅ˈ˃˃
ˆ˃˃˃
˄ ˈ ˄˃ ˅˃ ˆ˃ ˈ˃ ˊ˃ ˄˃˃
ʶˠ˛
ˣ˴
˶˾
˸̇
ʳ˟
̂̆
̆ʻ
̃˴
˶˾
˸̇
̆˂
̆˸
˶ʼ
˥ˢˀ˛ˠ˜ˣ̉ˉ ˡ˕˦ ˩ˀ˛ˠ˜ˣ̉ˉ
 
Figure 7. Packet loss per MR handoff 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] K Kong, W Lee, Y Han, M Shin, H You, ”Mobility Management for 
All-IP Mobile Networks: Mobile IPv6 vs. Proxy Mobile IPv6”, IEEE 
Wireless Communications, vol. 15, issue 2, Apr. 2008, pp. 36-45. 
[2] T. Ernst, Alexis Olivereau, Ludovic Bellier, Claude Castelluccia, and 
Hong-Yon Lach, “Mobile Networks Support in Mobile IPv6 (Prefix 
Scope Binding Update),” Internet Draft, draft-ernst-mobileip-v6-
network-03.txt, NEMO Working Group, March 2002. 
[3] W. Bolton, Y. Xiao, M. Guizani, “IEEE 802.20: Mobile Broadband 
Wireless Access,” IEEE Wireless Communications, vol. 14, issue 2, 
pp. 84-95, Feb. 2007. 
[4] IEEE 802.16 TGe, “Part 16: Air Interface for Fixed and Mobile 
Broadband Wireless Access Systems,” IEEE Standard No: 802.16E-
2005 &802.16/COR1, 28 Feb. 2006. 
[5] V. Devarapalli, R. Wakikawa, A. Petrescu, and P. Thubert, “Network 
Mobility (NEMO) Basic Support Protocol,” RFC 3963, Internet 
Engineering Task Force, Jan. 2005. 
[6] D. Johnson, C. Perkins, and J. Arkko, “Mobility Support in IPv6,” 
RFC 3775, June 2004. 
[7] M. Calderon et al., “MIRON: Mobile IPv6 Route Optimization for 
NEMO,” IEEE Journal of Selected Areas in Communications (J-
SAC), Issue on Mobile routers and Network Mobility, vol. 24, no. 9, 
Sep. 2006, pp. 1702-1716. 
[8] F. Z. Yousaf, A. Tigyo and C. Wietfeld, “NERON: A Route 
Optimization Scheme for Nested Mobile Networks,” Wireless 
Communications and Networking Conference (WCNC), 5-8 April 
2009, pp.1-6. 
[9] P. K. Chowdhury, M. Atiquzzaman and W. Ivancic, “SINEMO: An 
IP-diversity based Approach for Network Mobility in Space,” 
Proceedings of the 2nd IEEE International Conference on Space 
Mission Challenges for Information Technology (SMC-IT), 2006, pp. 
109-115. 
[10] H. Ohnishi, K. Sakitani, Y. Takagi, “HMIP based Route 
Optimization Methods in a Mobile Network,” Internet Draft(draft-
ohnishi-nemo-ro-hmip-00.txt), Oct. 2003. 
[11] K. Kawano, K. Kinoshita and N. Yamai, “A Distributed Network 
Mobility Management Scheme for Hierarchical Mobile IPv6 
Networks,” IEICE Trans. Commun., vol. E91-B, no. 7, July 2008, 
pp.2272-2278. 
[12] H. Soliman, C. Castelluccia, K. E. Malki, and L. Bellier, 
“Hierarchical Mobile IPv6 Mobility Management (HMIPv6),” RFC 
4140, Aug. 2005. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
167
Authorized licensed use limited to: C. S. Tsai. Downloaded on June 07,2010 at 12:33:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 2
的場地 First Hotel Bangkok 做報到手續；第二天開始早上則是 Opening Remarks
和二場的 Keynote Speaker 以及團體拍照，而後從第二天下午開始則是會議論文報
告的行程開始同步於不同場地舉辦，所有作者一一上台報告今年最新發表之論文，
讓世界各國學者都可以參與主題的討論並做學術上的交流。 
本人下午報告的 Session 2 主要以 Computer and Network Technology 為主，共
計 16 個主題，包含了 Dynamic multiple pattern detection algorithm、Cross-Layer 
MAC and Routing Protocol(於 Ad-Hoc network 上討論)、Mobile WiMAX 相關的 packet 
scheduling scheme 以及 NEMO 相關主題為主。 而本人所報告的 NEMO 議題當中，也
有許多印度學者非常感興趣，並與本人作簡短的討論與交流。 
二、與會心得 
 這是本人第二次參與國際性研討會，也是第一次國科會提供補助 3 萬元讓我能夠
參與這場國際性研討會，在此特別感謝國科會的補助。 此外，透過這一次研討會的
參與，除了增加個人上台報告經驗外，更可以認識不同國家的學者，並從中與他們
進行會後的討論。 由於規定每位作者的報告時間限制於 15 分鐘內，不足以對其研
究能夠有快速且徹底的了解，但卻可以讓人有著初步的認識，可以讓我們對當今國
際上相關研究的趨勢、方法、進度、狀況有基本的認識，這對我們的研究方向與進
行是有很大的幫助。  
 在這一次的報告中，還是有點緊張，但因為有充分的事前演練，所以可以很快進
入狀況。 當最後報告完畢，該 Section 的 Chair-Dr. Panduranga Vittal Koppal
有點欣賞所報告的 Simulation performance，並也提出了一些見解與詢問，我很快
的回應是與所提出的 SBC-cache 有關，並簡短說明其中所設計 cache 的基本哲學想
無研發成果推廣資料 
期刊論文 2 1 100% 
(1)已投稿一篇國際 Sci
期刊到 Elsevier Journal 
of Computer 
Communications 
(COMCOM), 題 目
為 ＇ ＇ ＇ ＇ An 
Enhancement of Binding 
Update for Vehicular 
HMIPv6  in Wireless 
Network Mobility 
Environment＇＇＇＇目
前審查進行中 (論文總字
數 8,725 字) 
 
(2)第二篇論文(進行中), 
題 目 為 ＇ ＇ ＇ ＇ The 
Multicast Service for 
High Speed Vehicle upon 
the Nested Network 
Mobility 
Management＇＇＇＇, 將
投稿 Elsevier Journal 
of Computer 
Communications 
(COMCOM) 
研究報告 /技術報
告 0 0 100% 
[1] *Chun-Shian 
Tsai, ＇A High 
Speed-based Vehicular 
Application for 
Wireless Network 
Mobility (NEMO) 
Environment,＇ 2010 
IEEE ICCNT, Bangkok, 
Thailand, April 23-25, 
2010, pp. 162-167. 
(NSC98-2221-E-235-006) 
(EI, published) 
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
