行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫
█ 成 果 報 告   
□ 期中進度報告 
成長於非極化氮化鎵之寬能隙材料及光電元件研究：子計劃三功能性
高發光效率氮化鎵發光元件 
 
 
計畫類別： 個別型計畫 ■  整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E009－094－MY3 
執行期間：96 年 8 月 1 日至 99 年 7 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：盧廷昌  
共同主持人：  
計畫參與人員： 柯宗憲、凌碩均、黃煇閔 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告■完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、列
管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年■二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：國立交通大學光電工程研究所 
 
中   華   民   國 九十九 年 十 月 十四 日 
INTRODUCTION 
Recently, nitride-based light-emitting diodes (LEDs) have been attracting great attention 
owing to the potential application in solid-state lighting. However, the conventional c-plane 
nitride-based quantum wells exhibit the quantum-confined Stark effect [1-2] as a result of the 
existence of spontaneous and piezoelectric polarization fields that are parallel to [0001] c direction. 
This effect results in spatial separation of the electron and hole wave functions in the quantum wells, 
which restricts the carrier recombination efficiency, reduces oscillator strength, and induces 
red-shifted emission [3]. To avoid such polarization effects, growth along [11 2  0]-oriented 
direction has been explored for planar a-plane GaN prepared on r-plane sapphire [4] and a-plane 
SiC [5] by metalorganic vapor phase deposition (MOCVD). Since these GaN surfaces contain an 
equal number of Ga and N atoms in each monolayer, a free electric field and nonpolar characteristic 
are obtained. The recent studies of a-plane AlGaN/GaN [6-7] and InGaN/GaN [8-9] multi-quantum 
wells (MQWs) demonstrate that it is possible to eliminate such polarization fields along nonpolar 
orientation. In addition, nonpolar LEDs have been shown to exhibit optically polarized spontaneous 
emission, which is explained to be a result of the crystal field oriented along the c-axis of wurtzite 
GaN and its effect on the valence band splitting induced by large compressive strain within the 
wells [10-11]. Therefore, the use of these polarized light emitters in liquid crystal display units is a 
great chance to save energy owing to the elimination of a sheet polarizer [12]. However, the 
difficult issue is that there is no suitable substrate for heteroepitaxial planar a-plane GaN growth.  
 In general, there is a threading dislocation (TD) density of ~3×10
10
 cm
-2
 and a basal stacking 
fault density of ~3.5×10
5
 cm
-1
 in a-plane GaN grown on r-plane sapphire structure because of the 
large lattice mismatch [13]. The TDs in GaN act as nonradiative recombination centers to restrict 
internal quantum efficiency. Therefore, the reduction of threading dislocation density is essential to 
improve device performance. Lateral epitaxial overgrowth (LEO) techniques have been employed 
to achieve defect reduction in nonpolar GaN. Previous LEO methods include: single-step LEO [14], 
selective area LEO [15], sidewall LEO [16], and so on. However, all of these LEO techniques 
involve ex-situ processing steps and it is difficult to control the uniformity of the regrowth thickness 
exceeding 20μm required for coalescence. Another possible method for reducing threading 
dislocation density is to insert strain-layer superlattices into the epitaxial layer. The strain which is 
due to different lattice constants in the superlattices, can deflect the threading dislocation into the 
interfacial plane and has been theoretically analyzed by Matthews and Blakeslee [17-18].  
In this report, we utilize the several mechanisms to realize defect reduction in a-plane LEDs 
and demonstrate the performance improvement of a-plane LEDs. The studies of a-plane 
InGaN/GaN LEDs have been reported covering emission range from the UV to the cyan (490 nm). 
Although green a-plane LEDs have been grown on r-plane sapphire and GaN bulk substrate [19], 
more detailed device physics of green a-plane LEDs, for example, the shift of emission peak under 
pulsed bias and the emission polarization anisotropy, are still ambiguous. Therefore, we fabricated a 
potential green a-plane InGaN/GaN LED on r-plane sapphire and then investigated a series of 
experiments in terms of electrical properties including the electroluminescence (EL) under pulsed 
bias and polarization characteristics using a stable driven current. 
After that, the GaN nanorods were etched through the nanomask openings by reactive ion etching 
(RIE)/inductively coupled plasma etching (ICP) until the height of these nanorods is 0.5 μm. The 
etchants for RIE were SF6 and Ar, and the etchants for ICP etching were Ar, BCl3, and Cl2. Then, 
the SiO2 films were deposited on the nanorods. Since the etching rate of RIE is anisotropic (the 
vertical etching rate is faster than horizontal etching rate), we can control the RIE parameters to 
remove the SiO2 on top of a-plane nanorods and simultaneously leave residual SiO2 on sidewalls of 
rods. We can observe that sidewalls of GaN nanorods are passivated by a 10-nm-thick SiO2 film 
and the top of nanorods exhibit the flat a-plane surface. Because the nanorods were fabricated via 
Ni masks, the shape and homogeneities of nanorods was similar to that of Ni masks.  
According to the earlier experiment results, we fabricated the LED structure on the a-plane 
GaN nanorod template. A 2-μm thick undoped GaN layer was regrown on nanorod template with 
1.7 μm etching depth, followed by a 1.6-μm thick n-type GaN layer with an electron concentration 
of 3×10
18
 cm
-3
. Then a six-period InGaN/GaN MQW active region is grown, consisting of 
7-nm-thick In0.3Ga0.7N wells and 20-nm-thick GaN barriers. On top of the active region is 
20-nm-thick p-Al0.18Ga0.82N electron blocking layer (EBL) and 0.2-μm-thick p-type GaN capping 
layer with a hole concentration of 1×10
18
 cm
−3
. After MOCVD growth, the LED wafer was partially 
etched by chlorine-based reactive ion etching from the surface of the p-type GaN until the n-type 
GaN was exposed. Indium-tin-oxide (230 nm) layer is used as the transparent p-contact and finally 
Cr/Au (100/200 nm) are deposited to be the p-GaN and n-GaN contact pads.  
(4) Non-polar orientation green LEDs:  
The n-type and p-type GaN were grown based on the above-mentioned parameters. Also, the 
in-situ SiNx nanomask was inserted between un-doped GaN and Si-doped GaN for defect reduction 
in nonpolar a-plane GaN films. In order to increase the emission wavelength, the 10 pairs MQWs 
were grown at temperature of 780℃. First, it comprises a 2-μm-thick undoped GaN layer, followed 
by a 2-μm-thick n-type GaN layer with an electron concentration of 3×1018 cm−3. Then a six-period 
InGaN/GaN MQW active region is grown, consisting of 2.7-nm-thick In0.22Ga0.78N wells and 
11-nm-thick GaN barriers. On top of the active region is 20-nm-thick p-Al0.1Ga0.9N electron 
blocking layer (EBL) and 0.2-μm-thick p-type GaN capping layer with a hole concentration of 
1×10
18
 cm
−3
. Subsequently, 300×300 μm2 diode mesas are defined by chlorine-based reactive ion 
etching. Indium-tin-oxide (230 nm) layer is used as the transparent p-contact and finally Cr/Au 
(100/200 nm) are deposited to be the p-GaN and n-GaN contact pads. In addition, we also 
fabricated the m-plane green LED structures on m-plane free standing GaN substrate using 
MOCVD. 
In this study, the structural compositions of the non-polar orientation MQWs were determined 
using a Bede D1 triple axis x-ray diffractometer (XRD). Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) 
and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) were utilized to compare the microstructures of non-polar 
LEDs structure. The electroluminescence (EL) and polarization characteristics of the diodes were 
measured by on-wafer probing of the devices. In addition, the electronic and optical properties of 
non-polar LEDs were also investigated. 
 Fig. 1 (a) Structure of the ultraviolet nonpolar TELOG LED (b) Cross-sectional SEM image of a 
TELOG a-plane LED with 2 μm seed/7 μm trench patterns. 
 
Fig. 2 (a) Plan-view SEM image, including seed regions and wing regions (b) monochromatic CL 
image at 373nm and (c) monochromatic CL image at 443 nm. 
 
Fig. 3 (a) L–I–V characteristics of the ultraviolet nonpolar LED and (b) normalized CW 
electroluminescence spectra. 
a b 
energy of the quantum-well confined state and the barrier continuum state or defect state. As a 
result, the carrier confinement of a-plane MQWs was indeed enhanced in terms of activity energy 
estimation by introducing InGaN/GaN superlattices. 
Room-temperature EL spectra under 20 mA injection current is shown in Fig. 7(a). The same 
emission peaks were located at 449 nm for both samples. The EL full width at half maximum 
(FWHM) of Sample.2 was measured as 28.7 nm, which was narrower than that of Sample.1 
(FWHM =35.8 nm). The L-I-V curves were measured to further demonstrate the performance 
enhancement of a-plane LEDs with InGaN/GaN superlattices as shown in Fig. 7(b). These two I-V 
curves exhibited similar shapes, indicating that the absence of the degradation of electrical 
characteristics with the insertion of superlattices. The forward voltages of Sample.1 and Sample.2 
were both 4.25 volts at 20 mA operating current. The series resistances of Sample.1 and Sample.2 
were estimated to be ~24 Ω. The output power of Sample.2 had a 3.42-fold and 2.86-fold increase 
compared with those of Sample.1 at 20 and 100 mA injection current, respectively. Such an 
apparent enhancement was attributed to the dislocation reduction and the improvement of the MQW 
quality upon inserting InGaN/GaN superlattices.  
The a-plane (In,Ga)N films suffer from anisotropic in-plane compressive strain in the x–y 
plane (x is oriented along [1100], y is oriented along [1120], and z is oriented along [0001] of the 
wurtzite crystal and the original        -like valence-band states of unstrained wurtzite crystal 
are split into     -liked and     -liked states. The energy of the    -like state is raised by the strain, 
while that of the     -like state is pushed down to below that of the     -like state (see the inset of 
Fig. 8). The degree of polarization of Sample 2, which was estimated to be approximately 56.3%, 
was larger than that of Sample 1 (nearly 27.4%). There are two possible reasons that account for 
this phenomenon. First, the TDs in GaN act as nonradiative recombination centers and could restrict 
the carrier transitions from the bottom of the conduction band to the topmost    -like state. Since 
the superlattices can reduce the dislocation density, the severe interruption of selective carrier 
transition was reduced. The other reason is that the superlattices may amplify the anisotropic 
in-plane compressive strain experienced by the MQWs and consequently give rise to a higher 
transition energy difference between the     -like state and     -like state. As a result, the 
polarized characteristic of a-plane LEDs with superlattices was enhanced. 
 
Fig. 5 (a) Cross-sectional TEM image of a-plane LED with superlattices. Inset shows the 
corresponding electron diffraction pattern. Morphologies of MQWs grown on the templates (b) 
without and (c) with superlattices are also shown. 
off-axis (1101) reflections for the as-grown (1.5/10 μm thickness) and NRELOG a-plane GaN 
samples were measured as shown in Figs. 9(a) and 9(b), respectively. It revealed that the on- and 
off-axis full width at half maximum (FWHM) were narrowed with increasing layer thickness due to 
the inclination in bulk epitaxial GaN growth. Moreover, the XRC FWHMs of the NRELOG sample 
on-axis and off-axis reflections were further reduced from 903 to 430 arc sec and from 1821 to 
1148 arc sec with respect to the as-grown sample with 10 μm thickness. In comparison with the 
FWHMs of the as-grown and NRELOG samples grown to similar thickness, it is evident that the 
crystal quality of the a-plane GaN epilayer indeed could be improved with the NRELOG technique. 
On the basis of previous literature [22, 14-16] the on-axis FWHM value of NRELOG samples (430 
arc sec) is even narrower than that of the SiNx nanomask LEO (900 arcsec)/ single-step ELOG 
sample (612 arcsec) and is comparable to that of either SALE or sidewall LEO sample (~324 
arcsec).  
The typical bright-field cross-sectional transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image near 
(1100) zone axis of the NRELOG sample is shown in Fig. 10(a). Inset presents the corresponding 
electron diffraction pattern. The yellow dotted lines represent the contour of GaN nanorods. 
Regions I and II show the nanorod template and the GaN regrowth epilayer, respectively. From the 
TEM image, it is obvious that TD density in region II is much lower than that in region I. The 
mechanism of TD reduction by NRELOG is similar to the previous LEO methods. The GaN seeds 
initially grown on the a-plane nanorods are the windows, and the subsequent lateral overgrown 
GaN are the wings. We can observe that the dislocation lines from region I penetrated into region II 
via the nanorods (windows). In contrast, the GaN wing between two nanorods was essentially free 
of dislocations. The average TD density in region II was estimated to be 3.5×10
8
 cm
−2
, which was 
about two orders of magnitude lower than that in region I (3×10
10
 cm
−2
). In addition, the stacking 
fault (SF) was observed from the plan-view TEM image near (1120) zone axis as shown in Fig. 
10(b). The SF density was estimated to be 2×10
5
 cm
−1
, which was decreased by a factor of 2–3 
compared to that of as-grown sample. We believe that the TD and SF density could be further 
decreased while the optimization of nanorod parameter is performed. Though detailed experiments, 
we obtained that the crystal quality will be improved with increasing the GaN nanorod etching 
depth [23]. Hence, we fabricated the LED structure on the high quality a-plane GaN template by 
using NRELOG. 
    The EL measurements are performed in an encapsulated chip form, in which all light output 
are collected into the integrating sphere with a Si photodetector. Figure 11 shows the EL spectra of 
a-plane NRELOG LED at drive current ranging from 1 to 50 mA. The spectrum apparently exhibits 
a multiple-peak feature and can be decomposed into two dominant peaks by Gaussian fitting, lower 
energy emission denoted by D1 and higher energy emission denoted by D2. At lower forward 
current of < 3 mA, the spectrum is dominated by the lower energy emission of D1 peak. With the 
current increasing, the intensity of D2 peak raises much faster than of D1 peak from 4 to 50 mA, 
and finally the D2 peak became the dominant peak. In addition, the D1 peak of 2.26 eV exhibits a 
large blue-shifted to 2.4 eV when current was increased from 1 to 5 mA, which is attributed to band 
filling effect as a result of high inhomogeneous indium incorporation. In contrast to D1 peak, the 
 Fig. 11 (a) Electroluminescence spectra and (b) the dependence of peak energy shift on injected 
current.  
 
Fig. 12. Energy Dispersive Spectrometer (EDS) of a-plane MQWs on the defective region (Seed) 
and superior quality region (Wing) were shown. 
(4) Non-polar orientation green LEDs:  
In this topic, we fabricated a-plane and m-plane green LEDs on r-plane sapphire and m-plane 
GaN substrate, respectively. The structural features of InGaN/GaN MQWs are very important for 
device performance of LEDs, for instance, indium composition and interface. Therefore, the XRD 
measurement was performed on the a-plane MQWs sample to examine the well width and identify 
the indium compo-sition. Figure 13 shows a typical θ/2θ scans for the InGaN/GaN MQWs grown 
on the a-plane GaN template. Three clear satellite peaks could be found which indicated good 
crystal quality of the MQWs. The structural parameters of the quantum wells, well width could be 
calculated by analyzing the angular positions of the main satellite peaks and the growth time of 
wells and barriers. The indium composition of the quantum well was obtained around 20.1%, and 
the well and barrier thickness was estimated to be 45 and 200 Å , respectively, for the MQWs grown 
on the a-plane GaN template.  
In Fig. 14 (a), the room temperature EL spectra of the a-plane LED was measured at drive 
currents ranging from 1 to 100 mA. The spectra was measured under pulsed bias (the pulse duty 
cycle = 10%) to prevent red shift of emis-sion peak due to the heating effect. The EL peak 
emis-sion first exhibited blue shift with the current increasing and then became constant at 506 nm, 
distribution of holes and electron leakage current due to strong polarization fields are responsible 
for the relatively significant efficiency droop of conventional c-plane LEDs. 
Figure 17 shows the light output intensity and normalized EQE as a function of forward 
current density for c-plane LED and m-plane LED, respectively. The light output-current curve of 
the reference c-plane LED is linear at low current density but becomes sublinear at high current 
density, indicating a reduced EQE. Its peak efficiency occurs at ~5 A/cm
2
. Over this peak efficiency, 
the efficiency decreases rapidly. When the current density exceeds 100 A/cm
2
, the EQE is reduced 
to just 50% of its maximum value. In contrast, the m-plane LED exhibits only 13% efficiency droop 
with increasing the injection current density to 100 A/cm
2
, which shows almost negligible droop. It 
is also noticeable that the characteristic current density, which marks the peak efficiency, is 
extended to ~23 A/cm
2
.  
Figure 18(a) shows the calculated energy band diagram of the reference c-plane and m-plane 
LED at a forward current of 20 mA. For the c-plane LED, as a result of the polarization charges, a 
severe situation of band bending, i.e., sloped triangular barriers and wells, is observed. Furthermore, 
the conduction band slopes upward while it approaches to the MQW active region from the n-GaN 
side and consequently the conduction band close to n-GaN is higher than the conduction band close 
to p-GaN, which results in a large electron leakage current. Even though an AlGaN EBL is 
introduced, the electron current overflows out of the MQW region even at a low current of 20 mA. 
With increasing the forward current to 100 mA, the electron leakage becomes more severe, as 
shown in Fig. 18(b). The electrons escaped from MQW active region are not contributed to 
radiative recombination and thereby lower the LED efficiency. This reveals the electron leakage 
current due to polarization fields is one of the dominated mechanisms that results in efficiency 
droop. In the m-plane LED, because of the absence of polarization fields, its GaN barriers do not 
exhibit triangular shape and the conduction band near p-GaN side is now higher than that near 
n-GaN side. As a result, the electron leakage current as well as efficiency droop is reduced 
significantly. 
Figure 19 shows the carrier distribution in the whole InGaN/GaN MQWs structure at 20 mA 
forward current for the m-plane LED and the c-plane LED. It is obvious that in the c-plane LED 
both electrons and holes distributions are quite nonuniform among the quantum wells especially for 
holes. This is because holes have a relatively larger effective mass and therefore a very low 
mobility. Moreover, the triangular potential barriers which result from polarization fields hinder the 
holes transport throughout the active region as well. Under these circumstances, a large amount of 
minority carrier holes accumulate in the last well next to the p-GaN side, which means only the last 
quantum well next to p-GaN contributes to radiative recombination in the c-plane LED. It results in 
two circumstances. One is inefficient recombination with electrons in the other five wells increases 
the excess electron density and thus enhances the electron leakage. Second is the higher carrier 
density accumulated in the last well of c-plane LEDs, as compared with the m-plane LEDs, causes 
the greater radiative recombination rate relative to the nonradiative recombination rate, which is 
responsible for that the c-plane LEDs reach maximum efficiency at much lower current density than 
the m-plane LEDs do. In addition, in a recent paper, Shen and co-workers demonstrate that the 
 Fig. 15 Output power and EQE as a function of drive current. Inset shows the I-V characteristic of 
green LED under forward bias. 
 
Fig. 16 Variation of EL intensity with angular orientation of the polarizer at 20 mA operation 
current. 
 
Fig. 17 Integrated EL intensity and normalized EQE as a function of forward current density for 
c-plane LED and m-plane LED, respectively. Both samples have the same MQW active region and 
EBL structure. 
Conclusions 
In summary, we have achieved the studies on the growth of high-quality non-polar GaN, 
optical properties of MQWs, and fabrication of light emitting diodes. At first, we grow nonpolar 
InGaN/GaN LEDs using the TELOG technique. The L-I-V diagram revealed that the series 
resistance was about 50Ω and that there are leakage current pathways due to high density of TDs in 
seed regions. EL spectra showed that the peak at 443 nm appeared at first and then the peak of 373 
nm was emitted with increasing current. We proposed that the reasons for this phenomenon were 
the differences in crystal quality and bandgap between the seed regions and the wing regions. The 
polarization measurements showed that such LEDs possess 28.7% polarization degree. Furthermore, 
we have also demonstrated that the dislocation reduction was indeed achieved by the insertion of 
InGaN/GaN superlattices. The threading dislocation density was reduced from 3×10
10
 cm
-2
 down to 
~9×10
9
 cm
-2
. From the room temperature PL spectra, the PL intensity of the sample with 
InGaN/GaN superlattices exhibited improvement by a factor of 6 times in comparison to that of 
conventional sample without InGaN/GaN superlattices which attributed to the TD reduction and the 
improvement of MQWs quality. 
According to the earlier investigated results, we demonstrated that the performance 
enhancement of a-plane LEDs was achieved by the insertion of InGaN/GaN superlattices. The 
threading dislocation density was reduced from3×10
10
 to ~9×10
9
 cm
-2
. From the Arrhenius plots, 
the thermal activation energy of the sample with InGaN/GaN superlattices which was estimated to 
be 105.3 meV, was larger than that of the sample without InGaN/GaN superlattices (83.7 meV). 
Additionally, the EL intensity of the sample with InGaN/GaN superlattices exhibited improvement 
by a factor of 3 in comparison with that of the conventional sample without InGaN/GaN 
superlattices, which could be attributed to the TD reduction and the improvement of LED quality. 
Afterward, we fabricated a-plane green InGaN/GaN LEDs grown on r-plane sapphire and 
investigated their electroluminescence characteristics. A series of experiments showed that high 
indium composition is allowed to incorporate into a-plane GaN which encourage development of 
green LEDs along non-polar direction. Although the QCSE was eliminated in a-plane green LEDs, 
the EL spectra still exhibited blue shift with the current increasing due to band-filling effect as a 
result of inhomogeneous indium incorporation. The EL polarization anisotropy was observed 
clearly in a-plane green LEDs and the polarization degree had a 2.34 times increase compared with 
that of ultraviolet a-plane LEDs, which could be attributed to large valence band splitting induced 
by high indium concentration in the wells. 
Finally, we proposed to fabricate the NRELOG LEDs, and successfully achieved the green 
a-plane InGaN/GaN LEDs using NRELOG technique. The output power of NRELOG LEDs (0.5 
mW) exhibits approximately 10-fold increase compare to that of as-grown LEDs (50 μW), while 
operated at forward current of 20 mA, which is due to the reduction of threading dislocation density 
via NRELOG technique. Moreover, in order to evaluate whether or not the efficiency of non-polar 
LEDs can be retained with current injection, we grow LED structure on the freestanding m-plane 
GaN substrate to exclude the influence of dislocation and stacking faults. 
[15] C. Chen, J. Zhang, J. Yang, V. Adivarahan, S. Rai, S. Wu, H. Wang, W. Sun, M. Su, Z. Gong, 
E. Kuokstis, M. Gaevski, and M. A. Khan, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 2 42, L818 (2003).  
[16] B. Imer, F. Wu, S. P. DenBaars, and J. S. Speck, Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 061908 (2006). 
[17] J. W. Matthews and A. E. Blakeslee, J. Cryst. Growth 27, 118 (1976). 
[18] J. W. Matthews and A. E. Blakeslee, J. Cryst. Growth 32, 265 (1976). 
[19] T. Detchprohm, M. Zhu, Y. Li, Y. Xia, C. Wetzel, E. A. Preble, L. Liu, T. Paskova, and D. 
Hanser, Appl. Phys. Lett., 92, 241109 (2008). 
[20] T.C. Wang, T.C. Lu, T.S. Ko, H.C. Kuo, M. Yu, S.C. Wang, Appl. Phys. Lett., 89, 251109 
(2006). 
[21] N.F. Gardner, J.C. Kim, J.J. Wierer, Y.C. Shen, M.R. Krames, Appl. Phys. Lett., 86, 111101 
(2005). 
[22] A. Chakraborty, K. C. Kim, F. Wu, J. S. Speck, S. P. DenBaars, and U. K. Mishra, Appl. Phys. 
Lett. 89, 041903 (2006). 
[23] S. C. Ling, C. L. Chao, J. R. Chen, P. C. Liu, T. S. Ko, T. C. Lu, H. C. Kuo, S. C. Wang, S. J. 
Cheng, and J. D. Tsay, J. Cryst. Growth 312, 1316 (2010). 
[24] P. Kozodoy, J. P. Ibbetson, H. Marchand, P. T. Fini, S. Keller, J. S. speck, S. P. DenBaars, and 
U. K. Mishra, Appl. Phys. Lett. 73, 975 (1998). 
[25] A. Chitnis, C. Chen, V. Adivarahan, M. Shatalov, E. Kuokstis, V. Mandavilli, J. Yang, and M. 
Asif Khan, Appl. Phys. Lett., 84, 3663 (2004). 
[26] S. C. Ling, T. C. Wang, T. S. Ko, T. C. Lu, H. C. Kuo and S. C. Wang, Journal of Crystal 
Growth , 310, 2330 (2008). 
[27] T. Koyama and T. Onuma, Appl. Phys. Lett., 89, 091906 (2006). 
[28] Y. C. Shen, G. O. Müeller, S. Watanabe, N. F. Gardner, A. Munkholm, and M. R. Krames, 
Appl. Phys. Lett., 91, 141101 (2007). 
 
 
 
[10] Hou-Guang Chen, Tsung-Shine Ko, Li Chang, Yue-Han Wu, Tien-Chang Lu, Hao-Chung Kuo, 
Shing-Chung Wang, “Investigation on microstructure in GaN epitaxial growth on the stripe 
patterned r-plane sapphire substrates”, Journal of Crystal Growth, 310, 1627-1631 (2008). 
[11] Shih-Chun Ling, Te-Chung Wang, Tsung-Shine Ko, Tien-Chang Lu, Hao-Chung Kuo and 
Shing-Chung Wang, “Characteristics of ultraviolet nonpolar InGaN/GaN light-emitting diodes 
using trench epitaxial lateral overgrowth technology”, Journal of Crystal Growth, 310 
2330-2333 (2008). 
[12] Shih-Chun Ling, Te-Chung Wang, Jun-Rong Chen, Po-Chun Liu, Tsung-Shine Ko,Tien-Chang 
Lu, Hao-Chung Kuo, Shing-Chung Wang, and Jenq-Dar Tsay, “Performance Enhancement of 
a-Plane Light-Emitting Diodes Using InGaN/GaN Superlattices”, Japanese Journal of Applied 
Physics, 48, 04C136 (2009). 
[13] Shih-Chun Ling, Te-Chung Wang, Tsung-Shine Ko, Tien-Chang Lu, Hao-Chung Kuo and 
Shing-Chung Wang, “Characteristics of a-plane green light emitting diode grown on r-plane 
sapphire”, Photonics Technology Letters, 21 vol.16 1130 (2009). 
[14] Shih-Chun Ling, Chu-Li Chao, Jun-Rong Chen, Po-Chun Liu, Tsung-Shine Ko, Tien-Chang Lu, 
Hao-Chung Kuo, Shing-Chung Wang, Shun-Jen Cheng, and Jenq-Dar Tsay,” Nanorod epitaxial 
lateral overgrowth of a-plane GaN with low dislocation density”, Applied Physics Letters, 94 
251912-251914, (2009). 
[15] Shih-Chun Ling, Chu-Li Chao, Jun-Rong Chen, Po-Chun Liu, Tsung-Shine Ko, Tien-Chang Lu, 
Hao-Chung Kuo, Shing-Chung Wang, Shun-Jen Cheng, and Jenq-Dar Tsay,” Crystal quality 
improvement of a-plane GaN using epitaxial lateral overgrowth on nanorods”, Journal of 
Crystal Growth, 312 1316–1320, (2010). 
[16] Shih-Chun Ling, Tien-Chang Lu, Shih-Pang Chang, Jun-Rong Chen, Hao-Chung Kuo, and 
Shing-Chung Wang, “Low efficiency droop in blue-green m-plane InGaN/GaN light emitting 
diodes”, Applied Physics Letters, 96 231101-231103, (2010). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  █ 可技術移轉                                      日期：  年  月  日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：成長於非極化氮化鎵之寬能隙材料及光電元件研究：子計
劃三功能性高發光效率氮化鎵發光元件 
計畫主持人：盧廷昌        
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E009－094－MY3 學門領域：光電工程學
門 
技術/創作名稱 功能性高發光效率氮化鎵發光元件 
發明人/創作人 柯宗憲、凌碩均、黃煇閔、盧廷昌、郭浩中、王興宗 
技術說明 
中文：利用先行成長一層氮化鎵薄膜，並利用乾式蝕刻圖案化氮化鎵薄
膜，之後再以側向磊晶成長之方法獲得一高品質的氮化鎵基板。我們嘗試
成長非極性發光二極體於此基板上，此發光二極體在140 mA電流注入下發
光強度可達0.2 mW，由陰極螢光頻譜分析得知其具有雙發光波長的特性,
且其極化率為28.7%。此外我們也嘗試利用氮化銦鎵/氮化鎵 超晶格堆疊
的方式來降低差排密度以獲得高效率的非極性發光二極體,由穿透式電子
顯微鏡觀察到此超晶格可有效降低差排密度三倍左右,此試片的室溫光激
發頻譜強度可以提升六倍左右的強度。  
英文：Nonpolar InGaN/GaN light-emitting diodes grown on trench 
epitaxial lateral overgrowth (TELOG) a-plane GaN template by 
metalorganic chemical vapor deposition were fabricated. The L-I-V 
diagram revealed that there are leakage current pathways due to the many 
threading dislocations in seed regions, and that the output power reached 
0.2 mW at 140 mA. By the transmission electron microscope images, the 
threading dislocation (TD) density was reduced from 3×10
10
 cm
-2
 down to 
~9×10
9
 cm
-2
. From the room temperature photoluminescence (PL) spectra, 
the PL intensity of the sample with InGaN/GaN superlattices exhibited 
improvement by a factor of 6 times in comparison to that of conventional 
sample without InGaN/GaN superlattices which attributed to the TD 
reduction and the improvement of MQWs quality.  
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
可用於非極性發光二極體和雷射等照明設備工業。發光波段可含蓋紫
外光至綠光。 
技術特點 
利用先進的TELOG技術可以大量降低a-plane GaN template的差排密度  
推廣及運用的價值 
非極性氮化鎵發光元件未來可廣泛應用於光電產業。 
 
□ 可申請專利  █ 可技術移轉                                      日期：  年  月  日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：成長於非極化氮化鎵之寬能隙材料及光電元件研究：子
計劃三功能性高發光效率氮化鎵發光元件 
計畫主持人：盧廷昌        
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E009－094－MY3 學門領域：光電工程
學門 
技術/創作名稱 功能性高發光效率氮化鎵發光元件 
發明人/創作人 柯宗憲、凌碩均、黃煇閔、盧廷昌、郭浩中、王興宗 
技術說明 
中文：利用氮化鎵奈米柱圖形化基板藉由側向磊晶成長的技術來降
低非極性發光二極體內部差排並且提高多重量子井的品質之的。由
穿透式電子顯微鏡的分析可以發現差排密度有效地由原本高達 3×
10
10
 cm
-2 降為~3.5×108 cm-2 左右。此外，我們也成功開發出氮化鎵
奈米柱圖形化基板非極性發光二極體。此元件在 20 毫安培操作
下，發光強度可達 0.5 毫瓦；在 100 毫安培操作下，發光強度可達
3.4 毫瓦。 
英文：The crystal quality of a-plane GaN films was improved by using 
epitaxial lateral overgrowth on a nanorod GaN template. The 
investigation of x-ray diffraction showed that the strain in a-plane GaN 
grown on r-plane sapphire could be mitigated. The average threading 
dislocation density estimated by transmission electron microscopy was 
reduced from 3×10
10
 to 3.5×10
8
 cm
−2
. These results demonstrated the 
opportunity of achieving a-plane GaN films with low dislocation 
density and high crystal quality via NRELOG. Hence, we fabricated 
the LED structure on the high quality a-plane GaN template by using 
NRELOG. The output power of NRELOG LEDs is 0.5 mW at 20 mA 
and 3.4 mW at 100 mA, respectively.  
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
可用於非極性發光二極體和雷射等照明設備工業。發光波段可含蓋
紫外光至綠光。 
技術特點 
利用氮化鎵奈米柱圖形化基板藉由側向磊晶成長的技術來降低非
極性發光二極體內部差排並且提高多重量子井的品質之目的。成功
製備了非極性發光二極體。 
推廣及運用的價值 
非極性氮化鎵發光元件未來可廣泛應用於光電產業。 
 
 2010 SPIE Photonics West 國際會議報告 光電系 盧廷昌 2 
 Photonic Integration  
 Nanotechnologies in Photonics  
 Advanced Quantum and Optoelectronic Applications  
 Semiconductor Lasers and LEDs  
 Displays and Holography  
 Optical Communications: Systems and Sub-systems  
 
我於 1/24日從桃園機場出發，1/24傍晚抵達舊金山離 MOSCONE CENTER頗近的一間百年旅館，
1/25 開始參加議程與參觀光電展，其中在中午時刻和王興宗老師以及目前在史丹福大學的
ShanHui Fan教授討論我們目前的一些研究成果，並彼此交換意見，同時達成近期在相關題
目上互相合作的行動方案，進行實質的國際交流與合作。同一天下午我聆聽了關於光子晶體
的應用以及一些非極性或半極性氮化鎵材料與元件的發展，1/26日的重頭戲是早上的
plenary session，此次 plenary session的主講人是 UCSB 的 Prof. Nakamura 以及 Sandia
的 Dr. Cao，Prof. Nakamura 簡單的講述 GaN LED 的發展近況，最近的重點還是放在藍綠光
半導體雷射的發展；而 Dr. Cao主要在講述 Solid state lighting 的技術分析與成本分析。
下午我便搭乘 CalTrain 到史丹福大學和 Prof. Yamamoto 與王興宗老師會面，並討論我們目
前在 ZnO microcavity所觀察到的現象與一些最近在理論計算上的問題，我們獲得很重要的
資訊並計畫近期的合作方向。 
我受到大會議程委員 Prof. Mokoc 的邀請，在 1/27早上 10點 40分報告我們最新的題目與
成果，報告題目與作者是: 
GaN-based Two Dimensional Photonic Crystal Surface-Emitting 
Lasers with AlN/GaN DBR 
T. C. Lu*, S. W. Chen, T. T. Kao, T. C. Liu, Y. J. Hou, P. S. Weng, C. H. Chen, Z. Y. Li, H. C. Kuo, 
and S. C. Wang 
內容摘要如下: 
GaN-based two dimensional photonic-crystal surface emitting lasers with AlN/GaN distributed 
Bragg reflectors emitting at different band edges modes including Г1, K2, and M3 have been 
fabricated and demonstrated under optical pumping at room temperature. Each of laser modes 
showed specific threshold property, polarization angle, and lasing emission angle. Furthermore, the 
photonic crystal laser also showed the larger spontaneous coupling factor and characteristic 
temperature. 
在會場有好幾位研究學者對我們的成果感到興趣，並有許多先進向我詢問了一些問題,我們
與他們解釋並討論一些我發現的現象。有幾位認為我們做的工作很有趣,也認為很有學術價
值。下午還到壁報區展示我們在非極性 GaN的磊晶成長結果，其題目如下： 
Crystal quality improvement of a-plane GaN using epitaxial lateral 
overgrowth on nanorods 
Shih-Chun Ling, Tien-Chang Lu, Hao-Chung Kuo 
Abstract 
The crystal quality of a-plane GaN films was improved by using epitaxial lateral overgrowth on 
nano-rod GaN template. The investigation of X-ray diffraction showed the difference of 
anisotropic in-plane strain between orthogonal crystal axes could be mitigated. The average 
threading dislocation density estimated by Transmission electron microscopy was reduced from 
3×10
10 
cm
-2 
to 3.5×10
8 
cm
-2
. Photoluminescence intensity of GaN band edge emission from the 
nano-rod epitaxial lateral overgrowth (NRELOG) sample was enhanced by a factor of 2 orders 
 2010 SPIE Photonics West 國際會議報告 光電系 盧廷昌 4 
 
適逢雷射發明五十周年，大會特地為回顧雷射的發展過程所作的展版 
 
 
 
 
Dr. Maiman在 1960 年時所做出的第一支雷射的原型複製，此雷射為紅寶石雷射 
 
 
 2010 SPIE Photonics West 國際會議報告 光電系 盧廷昌 6 
 
光電展會場裡壅擠的人潮 
 
 
為體現慶祝雷射發明五十周年，大會特別在入口下樓梯處擺出雷射 show 
 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期 2010年10月26日
國科會補助計畫
研發成果名稱
發明人
(創作人)
技術說明
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
技術/產品應用範圍
產業別
計畫名稱:
計畫主持人:
計畫編號: 學門領域:
(中文)
(英文)
成果歸屬機構
(中文)
(英文)
子計畫三：功能性高發光效率氮化鎵發光元件
盧廷昌
96 -2221-E -009 -094 -MY3 光電子材料元件與模組
功能性高發光效率氮化鎵發光元件
國立交通大學 盧廷昌,王興宗,郭浩中,凌碩均
利用氮化鎵奈米柱圖形化基板藉由側向磊晶成長的技術來降低非極性發光二極
體內部差排並且提高多重量子井的品質之的。由穿透式電子顯微鏡的分析可以
發現差排密度有效地由原本高達3×1010 cm-2降為~3.5×108 cm-2左右。此外，
我們也成功開發出氮化鎵奈米柱圖形化基板非極性發光二極體。此元件在20毫
安培操作下，發光強度可達0.5毫瓦；在100毫安培操作下，發光強度可達3.4毫
瓦。若以此奈米製程的手法運用於光電產業將能有效提升光電元件之效能,而非
極性氮化務於光電產業中也頗具潛力
The crystal quality of a-plane GaN films was improved by using
epitaxial lateral overgrowth on a nanorod GaN template. The
investigation of x-ray diffraction showed that the strain in a-plane
GaN grown on r-plane sapphire could be mitigated. The average
threading dislocation density estimated by transmission electron
microscopy was reduced from 3×1010 to 3.5×108 cm2. These results
demonstrated the opportunity of achieving a-plane GaN films with low
dislocation density and high crystal quality via NRELOG. Hence, we
fabricated the LED structure on the high quality a-plane GaN template
by using NRELOG. The output power of NRELOG LEDs is 0.5 mW at 20 mA
and 3.4 mW at 100 mA, respectively.
研究發展服務業
可用於非極性發光二極體和雷射等照明設備工業。發光波段可含蓋紫外光至綠光。
利用氮化鎵奈米柱圖形化基板藉由側向磊晶成長的技術來降低非極性發光二極體內部
差排並且提高多重量子井的品質之目的。成功製備了非極性發光二極體。非極性氮化
鎵發光元件未來可廣泛應用於光電產業。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
