 2
前言: 
We have built the Chang Gung Bioinformatics Website as a collaborative platform for bioinformatics 
study for years. Initially, our main goal is to develop a collaborative platform for bioinformatics in bladder 
cancer research: from gene expression, protein analysis, SNP finding, to bio-clinical decision support system. 
Recently, our study has aimed at clinical applications of bioinformatics. Since 2007, we have created a 
cancer-related clinical bioinformatics databases including gene expression、protein and SNP findings on our 
website (www.bmidoc.com). In this project, we developed a tool to display the cancer-related genes with gene 
regulation to provide biological information for clinical physicians and researchers to facilitate their genomic 
studies and clinical practice. 
 
研究目的: 
Since the advent of the World Wide Web, biological databases have become a vital part of bioinformatics. 
Knowing how to find information in and download information from the central biological data repositories is 
as an important skill for researchers as traditional literature searching. However, as web databases become 
more integral to sharing information within the scientific community, it is likely that more people will want to 
develop their own databases and allow researchers to access their data directly. The Genes and Disease 
database has been created at NCBI. “Genes and Disease” is a collection of articles that discuss genes and the 
diseases that they cause. These genetic disorders are organized by the parts of the body that they affect. The 
Pharmacogenetics and Pharmacogenomics Knowledge Base (PharmGKB) has been created by Stanford 
University. PharmGKB curates information that establishes knowledge about the relationships among drugs, 
diseases and genes, including their variations and gene products. Their mission is to catalyze 
pharmacogenomics research. The data obtained from these biological databases are extremely complicated. 
Clinical physicians need to spend several years to learn computational techniques for finding information in 
biological sequence, genome, and molecular structure databases. However, no similar clinical bioinformatics 
studies have been reported in Taiwan. Therefore, in this study, we created a tool to provide cancer-related 
genes and gene regulation information for clinical physicians and researchers to facilitate their clinical 
decision making. 
 
文獻探討: 
Bioinformatics translates discoveries to the clinic by disseminating discoveries through searchable databases 
like PharmGKB, dbGaP, PacDB, and the FDA AERS (Gamazon, et al., 2010; Mailman, et al., 2007; Thorn, et 
al., 2010). A major bottleneck for these databases is manual creation of the data. Biologically and medically 
focused text mining algorithms can speed the collection of this structured data, such as methods that use 
sentence syntax and natural language processing to derive drug-gene and gene-gene interactions from 
scientific literature (Coulet, et al., 2010; Garten, et al., 2010). These databases and methods need to be 
developed and used carefully. All of these data sources are susceptible to errors and so validation of data is 
essential, especially before the information is applied to the clinic. 
 
Three databases, the NCI/NCBI, SKY/M-FISH & CGH（Spectral Karyotyping/Multiplex Fluorescence 
In Situ Hybridization & Comparative Genomic Hybridization）Database, the NCI Mitelman Database of 
Chromosome Aberrations in Cancer, and the NCI Recurrent Aberrations in Cancer, are now integrated into 
program, we have collected reports of cancer-related genes and gene regulation for bladder cancer. 
Classification of gene regulation according to the reports as up, down, both up and down and 
equivocal regulations for bladder cancer related genes have been completed. We created a Web-based tool 
using PHP and HTML to display the bladder cancer-related genes with gene regulation. 
 
結果: 
A Clinical Bioinformatics Center website was created including 32 cancers and its related genes and gene 
regulation. This year we have placed the information of bladder cancer related genes and gene regulation and 
its references. The contents of this website are shown in the following figures.  
 
 
Fig. 1 The home page of the website          Fig. 2. 32 Cancers 
    
      
 
Fig. 3 Bladder cancer related genes and gene regulation 
（u: up-regulation; d: down-regulation; b: up- and down-regulation; e: equivocal） 
 
 
 
 4
 6
as methods that use sentence syntax and natural language processing to derive drug-gene and gene-gene 
interactions from scientific literature (Coulet, et al., 2010; Garten, et al., 2010). These databases and methods 
need to be developed and used carefully. All of these data sources are susceptible to errors and so validation 
of data is essential, especially before the information is applied to the clinic. BioRAT is a powerful 
information extraction system. It can locate and analyze both abstracts and full-length papers listed in 
PubMed database, using the Natural language processing techniques and domain-specific knowledge. We also 
used BioRAT to design our specific templates for collecting cancer related genes and gene regulation. 
However, some new full-length papers are required to be purchased from the publisher. It caused us much 
inconvenient. 
Combining different data sources into a database can result in novel associations and apply insight into 
gene-gene and gene-disease interactions. One group created a gene-disease network by combining the 
diseases and associated genes available in OMIM (Goh, et al., 2007). Analyzing this network showed that 
disease genes are often non-essential and not necessarily hub-genes. The same group created a Drug-Target 
network and integrated that network with a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network. The network shows that 
similar drugs cluster together, etiological drugs show different topologies, and newer and experimental drugs 
tend towards polypharmacology (Yildirim, et al., 2007). A global mapping of pharmacological space can be 
made using chemical structure, disease indication, and protein sequence and can be used to make predictions 
of polypharmacology (Paolini, et al., 2006). Many groups hypothesize that the integrative approach will 
successfully link genomic measurements with clinical applications (Atkinson and Lyster, 2010). Indeed, one 
group has integrated chemical similarity metrics, pharmacogenomic interactions, and protein-protein 
interaction to predictive method for pharmacogenes (Hansen, et al., 2009). Another group has used similarity 
of drug ligand sets to predict and validate novel “off-target” interactions (Keiser, et al., 2007). In our database 
we also include cancer related genes and gene regulation, proteins, SNPs and some metabolic pathways. 
Gene regulation drives the processes of cellular differentiation and morphogenesis, leading to the creation of 
different cell types in multicellular organisms where the different types of cells may possess different gene 
expression profiles though they all possess the same genome sequence. Up-regulation is a process that occurs 
within a cell triggered by a signal, which results in increased expression of one or more genes and as a result 
the protein encoded by those genes. On the converse, down-regulation is a process resulting in decreased gene 
and corresponding protein expression. Gene regulation is very important in cancer research including tumor 
growth and suppression. PhenoPred detects gene-disease associations using the human protein-protein 
interaction network, known gene-disease associations, protein sequences, and protein functional information 
at the molecular level (Radivojac, et al., 2008). GeneMANIA (Andersen, et al., 2008) generates hypotheses 
about gene function, analyzing gene lists and prioritizing genes for functional assays. The method takes in 
input genes from six organisms and analyzes them using information from different general and 
organism-specific functional genomics data sets. Therefore, we provided the information of cancer-related 
gene regulation on a bioinformatics website for physicians’ research and practice. 
Finally, there are challenges and opportunities for bioinformatics to integrate with the electronic medical 
record (EMR) (Busis, 2010). For example, the BioBank system at Vanderbilt links patient DNA with a 
de-identified EMRs to provide a rich research database for additional translational research in disease-gene 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/09/02
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 建立一個顯示癌症相關基因及基因調控的研究工具
計畫主持人: 張慧朗
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-182-035- 學門領域: 醫學資訊
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
