I 
 
 
摘要 
 
 
 
 
Performing optimal bit-allocation with 3-D wavelet coding methods is difficult because 
energy is not conserved after the bi-orthogonal wavelet transform and the motion 
compensated temporal filtering process. In this paper, we propose a way to derive the 
weighting for sub-bands that conserves energy. Once the weights of each sub-band have 
been calculated by motion-compensation temporal filtering, the effect of the quantization 
error of a sub-band on the reconstruction error of a group of pictures can be determined. 
Then, we weigh each sub-band and use the weighted coefficients to derive the optimal 
bit-allocation solution for 3-D wavelet coding methods. We apply the proposed method to 
bit-allocation on a 2D+t structure with a5-3 temporal wavelet filter, and show that it achieves 
a 0.5 ~ 1.5 dB peak-signal-to-noise improvements compared to not using the weighting of 
sub-bands on various coding parameters and sequences. 
  
III 
 
 
 
2 
 
categories: t+2D (MCTF is applied first) and 2D+t (the spatial wavelet transform is applied first). Despite 
the high coding gain in full resolution frames and the low coding complexity of the t+2D coding scheme, the 
structure of the scheme results in poor performance in decoding low resolution frames [10, 19]. We 
therefore base our analysis and experiments on the 2D+t scheme. The experiment results show that our 
approach improves the bit-allocation performance over that obtained by not using the weighting factors.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
4 
 
研究方法 
 
We abbreviate the derivation in detail and just discuss the result in this report. In wavelet video coding, each 
subband is indexed by both spatial and temporal decomposition. We use the notation (kl; pq)j to denote the 
(kl; pq)j-th spatial-temporal subband of frame j, where kl represents the the l-th subband in (k + 1)-th spatial 
decomposition, and pq represents the q-th subband in (p+1)-th temporal decomposition. For simplicity, but 
without loss of generality, we derive the spatial-temporal subband weighting factors based on the two-level 
5-3 temporal filtering example given in Section 3.2. Note that, in the 2D+t approach, the MCTF process is 
applied to the spatial subbands of a GOP. Thus, the spatial-temporal weighting can be derived to derive the 
temporal weighting for each spatial subband, after which we can obtain spatial weighting of each spatial 
subband. The spatial-temporal weighting matrix that relates the reconstructed MSE of the GOP and the 
errors on the spatial-temporal subbands is  
 
Without loss of generality, we use Eq.(34) to illustrate how to derive the spatial-temporal weighting of a 
subbband. The spatial-temporal weighting of subband (kl; ll)2i¡4 is the summation of the values in the second 
column of W2!0kl (denoted as Wkl(ll2i¡4)) multiplied by F(kl). The example can be generalized to obtain the 
weighting of any spatial-temporal subband (kl; qp)j as 
This 
weighting indicates the reconstruction MSE of a GOP resulting from quantizing subband (kl; qp)j : After 
deriving the spatial-temporal weighting, we can perform rate-distortion analysis of the 2D+t coding in 
wavelet domain. We now discuss the optimal bit allocation. The objective of the optimal bit allocation is to 
assign bits to different subbands so that the least distortion of decoded videos can be achieved under a 
certain rate limitation. For simplicity, we assume that the rate-distortion function of a subband can be 
derived independently. Therefore, the optimal bit-allocation of a GOP can be formulated as follows: 
6 
 
 
結果與討論 
 
The weight of each subband modifies the amount of the quantization error of the subband that appears in the 
reconstruction error. The effect of the weights for 3-D wavelet coding is determined by the wavelets and the 
MCTF process. In this paper, we have shown how to derive the weights for subbands of MCTF-based 
wavelet coding methods. We then use the weights to derive the optimal bit-allocation. Our experiment 
results show that using the proposed spatial-temporal weighting for bit-allocation improves the PSNR 
compared to not using it. Although we demonstrate the derivation of a 2D+t structure and conduct 
experiments on it, the proposed method can also be used on a t+2D structure. Therefore, the optimal 
bit-allocation problem for MCTF-based wavelet coders is solved. We use the high bit rate assumption in the 
derivation. In a future work, it would be very interesting to analyze the case where the assumption is not 
used. 
 
8 
 
 
[1] Y. Andreopoulos, A. Munteanu, J. Barbarien, M. Van der Schaar, J. Cornelis, and 
P. Schelkens, \In-band motion compensated temporal ¯ltering," Signal Processing: 
Image Communications, vol. 19, pp. 653-673, August 2004. 
[2] P. Chen and J.W. Woods, \Bidirectional MC-EZBC with lifting implementation," 
IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, vol. 14, no. 10, pp. 
1183-1194, October 2004. 
[3] S.-J. Choi and J.W. Woods, \Motion-compensated 3-D subband coding of video," 
IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, vol. 8, no. 2, pp. 155-167, February 1999. 
[4] M. Flierl, and B. Girod, \Investigation of Motion-Compensated Lifted Wavelet Trans- 
forms," Proc. of Picture Coding Symposium, pp. 59-62, April 2003. 
[5] B. Girod and S. Han, \Optimum update for motion-compensated lifting," IEEE 
Signal Processing Letters, vol. 12, no. 2, pp. 150-153, Febuary 2005. 
[6] S.-T. Hsiang and J.W. Woods, \Embedded video coding using invertible motion 
compensated 3-D subband/wavelet ¯lter bank," Signal Processing: Image Communi- 
cations, vol. 16, pp. 705-724, May 2001. 
[7] N. Jayant and P. Noll, \Digital coding of waveforms," Englewood Cli®s, Prentice-Hall, 
1984. 
[8] J.-R. Ohm, \Three-dimensional subband coding with motion compensation," IEEE 
Transactions on Image Processing, vol. 3, no. 5, pp. 559-571, September 1994. 
[9] J.-R. Ohm, \Multimedia Communication Technology," Springer Verlag, 2004. 
[10] J.-R. Ohm, M. Van der Schaar, and J.W. Woods, \Interframe wavelet coding { mo- 
tion picture representation for universl scalability," Signal Processing: Image Com- 
munications, vol. 19, pp. 877-908, 2004. 
[11] A. Ortega and K. Ramchandran, \Rate-distortion methods for image and video 
compression," IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, vol. 15, 6, pp. 23-50, November 
1998. 
[12] H.-W. Park and H.-S. Kim, \Motion estimation using low-band-shift method for 
wavelet-based moving-picture coding," IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, vol. 
9, no. 4, pp. 577-587, April 2000. 
[13] T. Rusert, K. Hanke, and J.-R. Ohm, \Transition ¯ltering and optimized quantiza- 
tion in interframe wavelet video coding," Proc. SPIE Visual Communications Image 
Processing, vol. 5150, pp. 682-694, 2003. 
[14] A. Secker, and D. Taubman, \Highly scalable video compression with scalable motion 
coding," IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, vol. 13, no. 8, pp. 1029-1041, 2004. 
[15] G. J. Sullivan and T. Wiegrand, \Rate-distortion optimization for video compres- 
sion," IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, pp. 74-90, Novemeber 1998. 
[16] D. S. Taubman and M. W. Marcellin, JPEG2000," Kluwer Academic Publishers, 
2002. 
10 
 
計畫成果自評 
 
 
產出說明 
計畫成果自評 結果  敘述 
 
研究內容與原計畫相符程度 
 
達成預期目標情況 
 
研究成果之學術或應用價值 
 
是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利 
 
 相符 
 
達成 
 
可 
 
是 
成果達成 scalable
之目的 
 
 
 
可應用於產業界中 
 
可發表於期刊，以投
稿審核中 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
