微型熱電轉換系統於電子散熱之研究 
The Study of Micro Thermoelectric Systems for Electronic Cooling 
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-006-164 
執行期限：96 年 8 月 1 日 ~ 97 年 7 月 31 日 
執行單位：國立成功大學機械工程學系 
計畫主持人：洪振益 
計畫參與人員：吳坤憲、王健彰、陳志龍、蔡朝安 
 
Abstract:  
Thermoelectric cooler is a solid-state device with high capacity to be integrated with high power 
electronic components, therefore, many new thermoelectric bulk alloy and thin-film pellet have 
been developed. This project studies the coupled-field, which is modeled and solved by ANSYS 
with the considerations of contact and thermal resistances to investigate the influence of pellet 
geometry for high power cooling. The result reveals that the thick film pellet can achieve acceptable 
temperature difference and cooling power rate when using commercially available materials with 
ZT = 0.8~1. It is concluded that, for bulk based alloy, considerable improvement of cooling power 
rate can be obtained by improving the power fact, α2σ and, for thin-film pellet, reducing the thermal 
conductivity, k, can improve its temperature difference. 
 
1 Introduction 
The conversion of energy between heat and electricity by thermoelectric cooler (TECs) may be a 
potential candidate in the future for localized high power cooling or precision temperature control. 
In principle, a good thermoelectric material with high figure-of-merit (Z = α2σ/k) requires high 
Seebeck coefficient, α, to increase Peltier heat, high electric conductivity, σ, to decrease Joule heat, 
and low thermal conductivity, k, to increase temperature difference. In the figure-of-merit, the 
thermoelectric power factor, α2σ, refers to the ability of particle carrying heat. Recently, bulk based 
and thin-film materials have been developed by various nanocomposites [1~3] and low dimensional 
structures [4,5], respectively. A number of efforts have shown that the ZT value could be enhanced 
by alloying or doping [6] and, more recently, reducing the lattice thermal conductivity. 
  Despite the insufficient ZT value of currently available materials, the miniaturization of 
thermoelectric pellet is still a trend for high power cooling accompanied by heat flux increasing at 
high performance electronic device. Extreme heat flux density makes the thermal issue worse and 
more than 150 W/cm2 power densities would be released from chip side immediately. 
Thermoelectric micro-cooler can be easily integrated with solid-state device and lead to many TECs 
be made by micro-system technologies [7,8] to achieve high power cooling. However, hot side heat 
rejection must be ensured to release by considerations of external cooling ability [9] and substrate 
thermal resistance [10]. In practice, the internal electric contact resistance should be taken into 
account because of its significant impact on applied current [11-12]. Thus, the performance of TECs 
will be dominated by either electric contact or thermal resistance when the pellet thickness is 
toward miniaturization.  
In such materials with low ZT, thin-film based material which requires an advanced microscopic 
fabrication technology to produce micro-coolers might be able to provide efficient cooling rate over 
150 W/cm2. Unfortunately, it is still difficult to use them to cool high power electronic device due to 
the disadvantages in low temperature difference and cost. On the other hand, the traditional bulk 
based alloy with better temperature difference has too low cooling power rate to refrigerate high 
power device because of the limitations in bulk fabrication technology. It is therefore to attract more 
interest on improving thermoelectric performance by various methods [13-18].  
formulation of thermoelectric pair. It is nevertheless a useful assessment to evaluate the 
performance of maximum Qc and COP for difference operating applications.  
 
2.2 Finite element model of solution 
The numerical solution is performed by commercial software, ANSYS, in which a large library of 
elements can be supported to solve coupled-field problems. The Governing equations couple the 
equation of heat flow and of continuity of electric charge [20]. In this coupled-field, the convection 
term is normally ignored without heat convention consideration and hence the heat flow equation is 
showed as follows 
qq
t
Tcp G +⋅−∇=∂
∂ρ                                                          (6) 
where qG⋅∇−  is the diffusion term, q  the source term, qG  and q  are heat flux vector and heat 
generation rate per unit volume, respectively. 
Continuity of charge transport is showed as follows 
0=⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
∂
∂+⋅∇
t
Dj
GG
                                                           (7) 
where j
G
 and D
G
 are total electric current density vector and electric flux density vector, 
respectively. 
The coupled thermoelectric constitutive relations are showed as follows: 
Tj ∇−∇−= σαϕσG                                                          (8) 
    TkjTq ∇−= GK α                                                              (9) 
where σ  is the electric conductivity and ϕ  is electric potential. jTGα  and Tk∇−  are called the 
thermal drift flux and thermal diffusion flux, respectively.  
Therefore, the coupled equations of thermoelectricity can be showed in the following form 
    ( ) ( ) qTkjT
t
Tcp 
G =∇⋅∇−⋅∇+∂
∂ αρ                                              (10) 
    ( ) ( ) 0=∇⋅∇+∇⋅∇+⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛
∂
∂∇⋅∇ T
t
σαϕσϕε                                         (11) 
It is obvious that the heat flux vector and current density are correlated with coupling term α  at 
equation (8) (9), and then the analysis is non-linear due to the second term of Eq. (10). In particular, 
the second term in Eq. (10) is a variation on the Thomson coefficient TT ∂∂= ατ while the 
Seebeck coefficient is temperature dependent. In addition, the internal contact resistance between 
pellet and connected metal as well as convection / radiation can be taken into account by means of 
the specific thermoelectric element in ANSYS. Therefore, the model is convenient to be made up of 
hexahedral meshes as shown in Fig.1 and some non-linear situation, such as material properties 
dependent on temperature, can be included as well.  
 
3 Result and discussion 
Generally, many efforts are concentrated on finding materials with high ZT performance in order 
to improve Qc and COP simultaneously. However, a TEC is characterized with its operating limits, 
such as maximum Qc, COP as well as ΔT, for different situations. For high power cooling density 
in this work, the miniaturization of pellet is the trend to pack many more n- and p-type pairs into 
the package. Nevertheless, the electric contact and thermal resistance may fail to achieve high Qc 
and ΔT, resulting in failed scale-down extremely.  
 
3.1 Effect of pellet thickness and geometry scale-down  
As pellet thickness, L, is reduced, the maximum cooling capacity regardless of temperature 
difference will increase and be inversely proportional to the pellet thickness as shown in Fig.3. 
Naturally, the reduction of thickness with the same cross-sectional area, A, also means that the 
electric resistance and thermal conductance are changed by pellet geometry. Due to thin pellet with 
low electric resistance, the high electric current can be applied to achieve high cooling power rate 
by Peltier effect, whereas high thermal conductance will decrease the cooling rate severely as the 
temperature difference is active. 
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
0.1 1 10 100
Applied current I, (Amps)
C
oo
lin
g 
po
w
er
 ra
te
, Q
c 
(W
) L=0.5mm
L=0.3mm
L=0.1mm
 
Fig.3 Cooling rate profiles corresponding to thickness of pellet, Th=298 K, ΔT=0, A=0.25 mm2, 
N=1 pair 
 
In order to retain thermal conductance and electric resistance, the pellet thickness is scaled with 
its cross-sectional area by a constant ratio, as shown in Fig.4, instead of thickness changing only. In 
this case, a square cooling area of 2.8×2.8 mm2 is used to cool a small chip where the most 
processes are highly temperature sensitivity and the thickness corresponding to scaling size is 
limited within distances of the order downward to 200 μm so that the requirement of fabrication is 
still bulk technology. Fig.5 shows the relationships between the pair numbers and performance at 10 
K temperature difference. The result of the pellet with 40 pairs reveals that the cooling rate can be 
enhanced several times without COP changing. The primary reason is that using scaling aspect can 
still keep the fraction of pellet thermal and electric resistance even at densely scaled n- and p- pairs 
and therefore more heat flow can be taken away by pellets in parallel. Although the above 
scale-down is a route to be able to have high cooling rate, this means there is no any performance or 
efficiency improved here due to the same figure of merit ZT. Only improving ZT value of 
thermoelectric material can enhance Qc and COP simultaneously. 
 
In principle, high COP with small applied current has less Qc and thereby reducing pellet size can 
contact resistance becomes significant leading to decreased Imax and ΔTmax sharply as shown in Fig.8, 
since the Joule heat induced by contact resistance would compensate for the Peltier heat absorbed at 
contact surface and lead to small current density. The electric resistance as a function of contact area 
becomes predominated here to reduce Imax and, as a result, to decrease Qcmax and ΔTmax 
simultaneously. However, the practical refrigeration is restricted by small ΔT while external thermal 
resistance and cooling ability are taken into account as well. 
1
10
100
1000
1 10 100 1000 10000
Pellet thickness (μm)
C
oo
lin
g 
po
w
er
 d
en
sit
y 
(W
/c
m2
)
Rc=1e-10 Ω-m2
Rc=0
 
Fig.6 Cooling power density as a function of pellet thickness for different electric contact resistance 
0
50
100
150
200
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3
Applied current (Amps)
C
oo
lin
g 
po
w
er
 d
en
sit
y 
(W
/c
m2
) 2000 μm
1000 μm
500 μm
200 μm
100 μm
80 μm
50 μm
40 μm
20 μm
10 μm
 
Fig.7 Applied current shifting with pellet thickness  
 
  As mentioned above, the absence of external thermal resistance where Th and Tc are fixed 
constant, the internal electric resistance has significant influence on Imax, Qcmax and ΔTmax, 
respectively. Instead, to further confirm the limit characteristics of TECs, the external thermal 
resistance will be described here and set Rc as 1e-10 Ω-m2. Two materials of Diamond and Alumina 
are used for hot side substrate to represent the realistic situation, indeed the Diamond substrate is a 
material of state-of-the-art technology. Fig.9 illustrates the power density loss of Diamond substrate 
is mainly predominated by electric contact resistance and the thickness of the peak is about 10 μm, 
whereas the optimum thickness of Alumina substrate is mostly restricted by external thermal 
resistance and appears nearly 60 μm. In comparing the hot side temperature of pellet, Fig.10 shows 
Th up to 55 0C due to Alumina substrate thermal resistance. This increase indicates a worse 
  
Fig.10 Temperature profile of fully three dimensional finite element model 
 
1
10
100
1 10 100 1000 10000
Pellet thickness (μm)
△
T m
ax
 (K
)
Rc=0, Rth=0
Rc=1e-10, Rth=0
Rc=1e-10, Rth=0.02
Rc=1e-10, Rth=1.2
 
Fig.11 Calculated temperature difference for different values of external thermal resistance 
 
4 CONCLUSION 
In general cases, the pellet of TECs moves forward miniaturization when the high power cooling 
demand is urgent on high performance CMOS applications. The pellet scale-down is limited by two 
unfavorable effects, electric contact resistance and thermal resistance, which determine the cooling 
power rate and temperature difference. The result shows that the bulk alloy has less total cooling 
power rate due to insufficient amount of PN pairs, whereas thin-film pellet would meet the 
difficulty of inefficient temperature difference because of electric contact resistance. Therefore, in 
the case where the state-of-the-art Diamond substrate is used to reduce thermal resistance, the best 
range of thickness is during thick-film as 60～100 μm to provide desirable cooling power rate and 
temperature difference. Nevertheless, from bulk alloy or thin-film pellet to thick-film pellet is 
always difficult and expansive. The other way to improve the performance of TECs for high power 
cooling is enhancing the figure-of-merit of materials in which bulk alloy can raise power factor, α2σ, 
to produce much Peltier heat and thin-film pellet should reduce the thermal conductivity to achieve 
the desirable temperature difference.  
 
Th=55 0C
ΔT≧60 0C 
