4. Chi He Chen, Jun-Xiang Peng, Shih-Fu Lu, Ming Chen, 2010, 10, Synthesis 
and characterization of poly(butylene succinate) and its copolyesters 
containing minor amounts of propylene succinate, Japan-Taiwan Joint 
Symposium on Innovative Synthesis for New Materials Chemistry in Kyoto, 
October 4-7, 2010. 
5. Ming Chen, H.-S. Hsu, Y.-C. Shih, Biodegradation of poly(butylene succinate) 
copolyester containing 21 mol% propylene succinate, in preparation. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
Submitted to eXPRESS Polymer Letters 
Basic data of manuscript  
Manuscript ID: EPL-0001970 
Title: Synthesis and characterization of novel poly(butylene succinate-co-2-methyl-1,3-propylene 
succinate)s 
Author(s): Chi-He Chen, Chao-Sen Yang, MING CHEN, You-Cheng Shih, Hui-Shun Hsu, Shih-Fu Lu 
Abstract: 
Poly(butylene succinate) (PBSu), poly(2-methyl-1,3-propylene succinate) (PMPSu), and 
PBSu-rich copolyesters were synthesized using an effective catalyst, titanium tetraisopropoxide. 
Measurements of intrinsic viscosity (1.20-1.28 dL/g) and gel permeation chromatography 
demonstrated the success of the preparation of polyesters with high molecular weights. The 
compositions of the copolyesters were determined in three approaches from 1H and 13C NMR 
analyses, and good agreement between the results was obtained. The distributions of the 
comonomers were found to be random from the spectra of carbonyl carbon. Their thermal 
properties were elucidated using a differential scanning calorimeter and a thermogravimetric 
analyzer. No significant difference exists among the thermal stabilities of these polyesters. 
However, the window between the glass transition and the melting temperatures becomes 
narrower with the increase in the concentration of 2-methyl-1,3-propylene succinate in the 
copolymers. Additionally, the cold crystallization ability decreases considerably. Finally, PMPSu 
is an amorphous homopolymer. Wide-angle X-ray diffractograms of isothermally crystallized 
copolyesters also follow the same trend. 
Keywords: Polymer synthesis, molecular e, copolyesters, NMR, thermal properties, WAXS 
Uploaded 
manuscript: 
EPL-0001970.pdf 
 
Status of the submission procedure 
1 Submission Completed Date of submission: 
2010-09-05 
2 Editorial precheck Accepted 
2010-09-05 
 
3 Review Accepted with major revision 
2010-10-16 
EPL-0001970_review.pdf 
4 Final submission Completed Date of submission: 
2010-10-26 
5 Editorial final check Waiting  
 
----- Original Message -----  
From: <expresspolymlett@pt.bme.hu> 
To: <mingchen@mail.nsysu.edu.tw> 
ORIGINAL CONTRIBUTION
Synthesis and characterization of poly(butylene
succinate) and its copolyesters containing minor amounts
of propylene succinate
Chi-He Chen & Jyun-Siang Peng & Ming Chen &
Hsin-Ying Lu & Chia-Jung Tsai & Chao-Sen Yang
Received: 6 June 2009 /Revised: 15 January 2010 /Accepted: 15 January 2010 /Published online: 20 February 2010
# Springer-Verlag 2010
Abstract High molecular weight poly(butylene succinate)
(PBSu), poly(propylene succinate), and PBSu-rich copo-
lyesters were synthesized using an effective catalyst,
titanium tetraisopropoxide. The compositions of the copo-
lyesters were determined in three ways from 1H and 13C
NMR spectra, and good agreement between the results was
obtained. The analysis of the carbonyl carbon spectra indicates
a random distribution of the comonomers. Thermal properties
were studied using a differential scanning calorimeter and a
thermogravimetric analyzer. No significant difference exists
among the thermal stabilities of these polyesters. However, the
window between the glass transition and the melting temper-
atures becomes narrower with the increase in the concentration
of propylene succinate in the copolymers. Additionally, the
cold crystallization ability reduces considerably. Wide-angle
X-ray diffractograms of isothermally crystallized copolyesters
also follow the same trend.
Keywords Polyester . Copolymerization . NMR .
Heat of fusion . Thermal properties
Introduction
Environmental pollution from conventional polymers such
as polyethylene (PE) and polypropylene (PP) has become
increasingly grave in the last several decades because of
their high chemical stability. With the rise of concern about
the global environment, polymer recycling and biodegradable
polymers offer viable solutions to solve this pollution
problem. Biodegradable materials can be degraded to CO2,
CH4, H2O, or other natural substances. Among biodegrad-
able polymers, aliphatic polyesters have attracted much
interest because of their susceptibilities to enzymes and
microorganisms [1]. Poly(butylene succinate) (PBSu) is one
of the commercial biodegradable polyesters with a relatively
high melting temperature (Tm≈113°C) and very favorable
mechanical properties, which are similar to those of such
extensively used polymers as PE and PP [2]. Moreover,
owing to the excellent processability of PBSu, it can be
processed using conventional equipment.
The crystalline structure [3–7] and crystallization and
melting behavior [8–16] of PBSu have been studied. PBSu
exhibits a low biodegradation rate because of its high
crystallization rate and crystallinity. Approaches that have
been used to improve the physical properties, extend the
range of application, and increase the biodegradability of
PBSu include physical blending, copolymerization, and the
formation of a composite with organoclay. With respect to
copolymers, the degradation rates of PBSu can be increased
by incorporating small amounts of different diols [17–22]
or diacids [22–26]; this is primarily attributed to reduced
crystallinity.
Unlike PBSu and poly(ethylene succinate), poly(propylene
succinate) (PPSu) has an odd number of carbon atoms in the
backbone. PPSu is a recently interested polymeric material
[14, 27–31]; however, the information available is slightly
limited because of the high cost and the limited availability
of 1,3-propanediol (PD), the monomer used for PPSu
synthesis. Because of its high biodegradation rate [30], PPSu
oligomers were extended to prepare new polymers with a
biodegradable backbone [32–34]. Recently, Xu et al. [35–37]
C.-H. Chen : J.-S. Peng :M. Chen (*) :H.-Y. Lu : C.-J. Tsai :
C.-S. Yang
Department of Materials and Optoelectronic Science,
National Sun Yat-sen University,
70 Lien Hai Road, Kaohsiung,
80424 Taiwan, Republic of China
e-mail: mingchen@mail.nsysu.edu.tw
Colloid Polym Sci (2010) 288:731–738
DOI 10.1007/s00396-010-2187-9
Nonisothermal Crystallization Kinetics of Biodegradable
Poly(butylene succinate-co-propylene succinate)s
SHIH-FU LU, MING CHEN, YOU-CHENG SHIH, CHI HE CHEN
Department of Materials and Optoelectronic Science, National Sun Yat-Sen University, Kaohsiung 80424, Taiwan,
Republic of China
Received 20 January 2010; revised 5 March 2010; accepted 27 March 2010
DOI: 10.1002/polb.22027
Published online in Wiley InterScience (www.interscience.wiley.com).
ABSTRACT: Poly(butylene succinate) (PBSu) and two poly(buty-
lene succinate-co-propylene succinate)s were synthesized via
the direct polycondensation reaction. The copolyesters were
characterized as having 7.0.and 11.5 mol % propylene succi-
nate (PS) units, respectively, by 1H NMR. A differential scan-
ning calorimeter (DSC) and a polarized light microscope (PLM)
adopted to study the nonisothermal crystallization of these
polyesters at a cooling rate of 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, and 10 C/min. Mor-
phology and the isothermal growth rates of spherulites under
PLM experiments were monitored and obtained by curve-
fitting. These continuous rate data were analyzed with the
LauritzenHoffman equation. A transition of regime II ! III
was found at 95.6, 84.4, and 77.3 C for PBSu, PBPSu 95/5, and
PBPSu 90/10, respectively. DSC exothermic curves show that
all of the nonisothermal crystallization occurred in regime III.
DSC data were analyzed using modified Avrami, Ozawa, Mo,
Friedman, and Vyazovkin equations. All the results of PLM and
DSC measurements indicate that incorporation of minor PS
units into PBSu markedly inhibits the crystallization of the
resulting polymer. VC 2010 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Polym Sci
Part B: Polym Phys 48: 1299–1308, 2010
KEYWORDS: crystallization; differential scanning calorimetry;
morphology; polyesters
INTRODUCTION Currently, hardly any polymers physically
decompose, because they are highly chemical stable, causing
serious problems of environmental pollution. Engineers and
scientists, who have developed novel polymers in the last
several decades, have focused only on their high-perform-
ance and use, ignoring the damage caused by polymer waste
to the environment. The problems of waste management can
be solved by replacing bioresistant synthetic polymers with
biodegradable polymers, which are friendly to the ecosystem
and are easily degraded to CO2 and H2O by enzymes or
microorganisms.1 Aliphatic polyesters are interesting candi-
dates for biodegradable materials. Poly(butylene succinate)
(PBSu) is a chemosynthetic aliphatic polyester with one of
the highest melting temperatures (Tm  113 C) and excel-
lent mechanical properties, which are comparable with those
of widely used polymers, such as low-density polyethylene,
poly(propylene)2, and others. Hence, PBSu has become a
promising candidate to replace common plastic polymers.
The most important property of biodegradable polymers is
their biodegradability, which is substantially affected by their
morphology, crystal structure, and degree of crystallinity.3
Therefore, research on the crystallization kinetics must pre-
cede research on the biodegradation tests as degree of crys-
tallinity influences not only the physical properties of the
polymers but also their final biodegradability. Many works
have sought to elucidate the crystalline structure of PBSu.4–6
The crystallization, spherulite morphology, and melting
behavior of PBSu have also been studied extensively.7–15
PBSu exhibits a relatively low-biodegradation rate because it
has a high-crystallization rate and high-crystallinity. Copoly-
merization and physical blending have been commonly
adopted to improve the physical properties and extend the
range of application of PBSu. Copolymers have higher degra-
dation rates than homopolymers, basically because of their
reduced crystallinity. Accordingly, some tests have been per-
formed to study the morphologies, crystallization kinetics,
and melting behaviors of PBSu and its various copolyest-
ers.11,16–19 Poly(propylene succinate) (PPSu) with an odd
number (3) of methylene groups in the diol monomer has
gained increasing attention, because it has a higher biodegra-
dation rate than that with two or four methylene groups in
the diol monomer.20–23 Poly(butylene succinate-co-propylene
succinate) (PBPSu) copolymers have been synthesized and
characterized by combining PBSu with a high-melting point
and PPSu with high-biodegradability.24–26 The crystallization
rate of PBPSu increases as the mol % ratio of butylene succi-
nate (BS) units increases; the degradation rate follows an
opposite trend. The cited works address isothermal crystal-
lization kinetics, however, crystallization kinetics under non-
isothermal conditions has not been studied.
Additional Supporting Information may be found in the online version of this article. Correspondence to: M. Chen (E-mail: mingchen@mail.nsysu.
edu.tw)
Journal of Polymer Science: Part B: Polymer Physics, Vol. 48, 1299–1308 (2010) VC 2010 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
NONISOTHERMAL CRYSTALLIZATION KINETICS OF PBPSu, LU ET AL. 1299
For Peer Review
 1 
Mechanisms and Kinetics of Thermal Degradation of Poly(butylene 
succinate-co-propylene succinate)s 
 
Shih-Fu Lu, Ming Chen, Chi He Chen 
 
Department of Materials and Optoelectronic Science, National Sun Yat-Sen University, 
70 Lien Hai Road, Kaohsiung 80424, Taiwan, Republic of China 
 
ABSTRACT: Poly(butylene succinate) (PBSu) and two PBSu-rich poly(butylene 
succinate-co-propylene succinate)s were synthesized. Copolyesters were characterized 
as random, based on 13C NMR spectra. TGA-FTIR was heated at 5 ºC/min under N2 
to monitor the degradation products of these three polyesters. FTIR spectra revealed 
that the major products were anhydrides, which were obtained following two cyclic 
intramolecular degradation mechanisms by the breaking of the weak O−CH2 bonds 
around succinate groups. Thermal stability at heating rates of 1, 3, 5, and 10 ºC/min 
under N2 was investigated using TGA. The model-free methods of the Friedman and 
Ozawa equations are useful for studying the activation energy of degradation in each 
period of mass loss. The results reveal that the random incorporation of minor 
propylene succinate units into PBSu did not markedly affect their thermal resistance. 
Two model-fitting mechanisms were used to determine the loss mass function f(α), 
the activation energy and the associated mechanism. The mechanism of autocatalysis 
nth-order, with f(α)=αm(1−α)n, fitted the experimental data much more closely than 
did the nth-order mechanism given by  f(α)=(1−α)n. The obtained activation energy 
was used to estimate the failure temperature (Tf). The values of Tf for a mass loss of 
5% and an endurance time of 60,000 hr are 160.7, 155.5, and 159.3 °C for PBSu and 
two the copolyesters, respectively. 
 
 
Key words: degradation; FT-IR; polyesters; thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) 
 
Correspondence to: M. Chen (mingchen@mail.nsysu.edu.tw) 
Page 1 of 36
John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
Journal of Applied Polymer Science
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
