 2
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          ■涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年 ■二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：中華大學建設與專案管理學系 
中   華   民   國  99 年   10 月    18 日 
目   錄 
 
一、摘要 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 3 
二、動機與目的 ------------------------------------------------------------------- 4 
三、文獻探討 ---------------------------------------------------------------------- 5 
四、研究方法 ---------------------------------------------------------------------- 8 
五、成果與討論 ------------------------------------------------------------------- 16 
六、結論與建議 ------------------------------------------------------------------- 22 
七、誌謝 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 24 
八、參考文獻 ---------------------------------------------------------------------- 24 
九、相關著作發表表列 ---------------------------------------------------------- 27 
十、可供推廣之研發成果資料表 ---------------------------------------------- 28 
 
 
  
 4
 
（二）計畫英文摘要。（五百字以內） 
Construction is a knowledge- and experience-based professional service industry. 
Construction business intelligence (CBI) is the retained knowledge that supports the operation 
and competitiveness of the firm, which is accumulated and verified through application in real 
world projects and becomes the intellectual property of firm. By utilization of the knowledge 
accumulated before, the Taiwan construction industry can not only improve their technological 
capabilities but also export professional services to other tropical and subtropical countries to 
generate great revenue. The proposed research aims at developing a “CBI-based engineering 
professional service platform,” which mimics the concept of Technology-based Professional 
Service raised by “Foresight Taiwan”. The objective of this research is to propose a generic 
value-adding model of construction business intelligence for engineering consulting firm. The 
key function of such a model is to transform the engineering knowledge accumulated from 
various disciplines into enterprise intellectual assets so that they can be utilized in commercial 
professional services. 
The scope of this research focuses on the emergent problem solving of A/E consultant 
professional service outside of Taiwan, which targets the engineering design, consultancy, and 
project management services of A/E firms in foreign countries. Even though, the technology 
developed in this research can be applied to both domestic and oversea construction service 
projects. The commonly adopted techniques for CBI development consist of intelligent systems, 
knowledge discovery in databases (KDD), and knowledge management (KM), the proposed 
research will develop CBI mainly based on KM approach. The required tools include knowledge 
mapping, text mining, data mining (DM), and lesson learning. The sources of construction 
knowledge are comprised of previous project final reports, proposals, and problem-solving cases 
recorded in the knowledge management system (KMS). The expected outcome is an extendable 
“Construction Business Intelligence based Professional Service Platform (CBI-PSP)”. The 
short-term objective is to develop the knowledge support system to assist construction firms that 
 6
worth for the money spent? If so, how beneficial it is?" Such a question is hard to answer unless a 
convincing quantitative analysis result is determined. According to a thorough literature survey 
by the authors, very few reports were found on quantitative benefit analysis of KMS 
implementation. Several reasons may be attributed to the lack of such a quantitative analysis 
including: (1) difficulty to formulate the measure of benefits; (2) difficulty to differentiate the 
KM activities from non-KM activities; and (3) difficulty to evaluate the values resulted from KM 
activities; and (4) unwillingness of the organizations to reveal their insights in order to prevent 
peeps by their competitors. Among the four causes mentioned above, the unwillingness of 
organizations to reveal their data is probably the most important reason for the rare report on 
KMS performance. Although there were some attempts to establish quantitative performance 
models for KM implementations [8,9,10,11]. Most of the existing models were (indicator-based) 
indirect measures instead of the direct benefits that are most concerned by the managers, such as 
time saving, cost effectiveness, and man-hour reductions. Without convincing direct measures of 
the benefits resulted from a KMS, it is hard to explore the insights of the KM implementation. It 
is also difficult to determine how much money should be invested and how much return can be 
expected. Such causes have resulted in the implementation of the KMS a "black box" not only to 
the outsiders but also to the managers of construction organizations. In fact, many adopters do not 
measure the benefits of their KMSs.  
 As a response to the appeals of previous researchers [3,4,11], the objective of the current 
research are: (1) developing a quantitative model for measuring the direct benefits resulted from a 
KMS; (2) conducting a long-term comprehensive case study of a major engineering consulting 
firm to determine the de facto benefits of a KMS in terms of the measures defined in (1); (3) 
analyzing the quantitative analysis results to investigate the insights of the implementation of a 
KMS; (4) indentifying the most important impacts of a CBI-CPS both quantitatively and 
qualitatively. 
 
三、文獻探討 (Literature Review) 
 Before planning effective methodology to fulfill the research objectives stated previously, the 
nature of construction problems, the problem solvers, and the construction industry should be 
taken into consideration as addressed both by Smith [12] and by Li and Love[2] in their proposals 
to establish a theory of problem solving. Li and Love found that construction problems pose 
several characteristics that should be tackled in order to solve them quickly, correctly, and 
cost-effectively; these characteristics include [2]: (1) ill-structure nature—thus experimental 
knowledge plays important roles; (2) inadequate vocabulary—thus communications between 
researchers and practitioners is important; (3) little generalization and conceptualization—first 
 8
three ontological levels: individual, group, and organizational levels [16]. Li and Love 
crystallized the above models, according to the characteristics of construction industry, into two 
most relevant categories: the Cognitive Processing and Decision Support System (DSS) [2].  
 The second viewpoint of underlying model for the CBI-CPS is the knowledge creation 
perspective. This model can be traced back to the four-dimensional model for organizational 
knowledge creation (also known as “spiral of the organizational knowledge creation＂) proposed 
by Nonaka [17]. The concept of Nonaka’s spiral of organizational knowledge creation is depicted 
in Figure 1, where the vertical axis discriminates the knowledge type into “explicit” and 
“implicit”. The horizontal axis differentiates the ontology of knowledge creating entities, e.g., 
individual, group, organization and inter-organization. An engineering problem is solved via the 
process of knowledge creation. That is, the problem is posed by a questioner and then 
communicated between the questioner and the problem-solver through 
“Socialization”—transferring the personal tacit knowledge to tacit knowledge of the other 
individuals; then, the socialized individuals document the problem or the solution in words or 
drawings through “Externalization”—transferring individuals' tacit knowledge to explicit form so 
that the public can access and utilize; with some aids of external databases/knowledge bases, the 
problem-solver figures out the solution through “Combination”—transferring explicit knowledge 
to explicit knowledge by combining two or more sources of codified explicit knowledge to 
generate a new entity of explicit knowledge; finally, the experience of problem solving is 
accumulated in the problem-solver’s mind for future use through “Internalization＂—transferring 
explicit knowledge to tacit knowledge of the problem-solver. The operation of the four types of 
knowledge conversions in the process of knowledge creation may be dynamically shifting from 
one another depends on the problem-solver's need. For example, the problem-solver may 
socialize the problem with the other solution-knower first before externalize his/her knowledge to 
the original questioner, and so forth. 
 From Nonaka’s perspective, problem-solving is viewed as a process of knowledge creation 
through the knowledge creation spiral. Modern KMSs are built on the Communities of Practice 
(CoPs), which provide forums for members of the organization (or temporary multi-organization) 
to participate in problem-solving process in a virtual or real world community. Such a 
phenomenon is also called the "Medici Effect" described by Johansson [18], which states that the 
innovators are changing the world by stepping into the "Intersection": a place where ideas from 
different fields and cultures meet and collide, ultimately igniting an explosion of extraordinary 
new discoveries. Johansson addresses that three driving forces (the movement of people, the 
convergence of scientific disciplines, and the leap in computational power) are increasing the 
number and types of intersections people can access. The Medici effect provides the theoretical 
 10
in the problem-solving process; (3) Domain experts (DEs)—a pool of firm’s internal and external 
specialists in all areas related to the services provided by the firm; (4) CBI system—a collection 
of CoPs and the knowledge- and data-bases supported with the CBI system of the firm. The 
generic system framework for a CBI-CPS can be easily implemented in any construction 
organization with a pre-established CBI system such as KMS. 
  
Figure 2 The generic system framework of a CBI-CPS  
 
4.3 Problem-Solving Procedure of CBI-CPS  
 The problem solving of a CBI-CPS shown in Figure 2 follows the procedure: (1) as a problem 
is posed by an engineer/manager (the questioner), he/she should search the knowledge bases and 
databases of the firm first to find out any available knowledge and experience document (usually 
stored as a lesson-learned file) that help solve the posed problem; (2) if the problem is solved 
then a new lesson is recorded and stored into the related knowledge base; otherwise, if the 
problem is not solved then it enters the CBI-CPS to be diagnosed; (3) the diagnosis module 
assess the emergency level of the posed problem to determine if the problem should be posted in 
the EPSU; (4) should the emergency level of the posed problem is low, it is posted in the related 
regular CoPs of the CBI system, otherwise the problem is posted in the EPSU on the first page of 
the EIP and the selected CoPs of the CBI system simultaneously; (5) the domain experts (DEs) 
from internal and external organizations participate in discussions of the posed problem to 
CoP2CoP1 CoPj
DEiDE1
Domain Experts (D s)E
Communities of Practice (CoPs)
 
Problem
Diagnosis
 
Problem
Solved?
Problem
posed
Engineer/
Manager
Problem
solved
 
Knowledge
Base
Data
Base
CBI System
Search
knowledge
bases/
databases
 12
software, Microsoft SharePoint®, was adopted to develop the first version of its CBI system. The 
system development took one year to establish the prototype. The hardware investment (for both 
platforms and Microsoft SharePoint system) was about USD 177,420; the labor investments 
(including programming, training, and maintenance costs) was about USD 612,900. Total 
installation cost summed up to USD 790,320. 
 The prototype CBI system began to operate company-wide after one year of the project 
commencement. It was found quickly that development of the CBI system was not a tough job 
compared with the creation of the culture and atmosphere for successful operation of a CBI 
system. 36 CoPs were established in the beginning. The number of CoPs was varying based on an 
enter-and-exit rule. That is, a continuous evaluation of CoPs is conducted to determine whether 
they should be maintained or be closed down. Currently, thirty-two CoPs are maintained in the 
CBI system. The manager of the CoP is in charge of all activities for promotion of the knowledge 
creation in that CoP. Incentives are provided by the company to stimulate the establishment of 
knowledge-sharing atmosphere. To date, the CBI system has been operating for eight years. The 
CBI system has been modified significantly from its prototype version. One of the most 
significant modifications was the introduction of the Emergent Problem-Solving Unit (EPSU), 
namely "SOS system", for emergent problem solving in 2003. 
 The SOS system is a specialized CoP of the CBI system, which provides a tentative forum 
for emergent problems encountered by the engineers and managers of the firm. Once the problem 
is posed as a SOS-problem, it is posted in the SOS board on the first page of the CBI system for 
emergent discussions. Such an arrangement forces all users of the CBI system to take a look at 
the posed problem, so that it generally receives attentions and usually has a better chance to be 
solved. Problems posed on the SOS board receive no response within one working day (24 hours 
since it was posted) will be automatically removed and transferred to ordinary CoPs. After then, it 
becomes a regular topic for discussion in the relevant CoPs.  
 
5.3 Type of Emergent Problems 
 There are basically eleven categories of emergent problems facing the case engineering 
consulting firm: (1) Request of client—request of the client can be very diversified, e.g., an 
assessment of the impact of a change order, preparation for a RFP that was not included in the 
contract, evaluation of a set of different alternatives, etc.; (2) Reaction to an accident—accidents 
are always omnipresent and emergent on construction sites, problems in this category may 
include the rescue process and remediation method for the accident; (3) Dispute 
resolution/Contract execution—problems in this category may relate to the interpretation of 
contract articles and should be determined within a time-bound; (4) Material and 
equipment—problems in this category are mostly related to onsite activities or a pre-construction 
 14
positive benefit either on MHB or CB. It revealed the fact that the CBI-CPS may not justify its 
investments based on the proposed quantitative model. The least beneficial department for these 
two criteria were Material Testing and Construction Management (CM), the Railway department 
and one local branch office followed. 
 
5.4 Quantitative benefit analysis 
 In order to measure the benefits resulted from the CBI-CPS system, all three measures (TB, 
MHB, and CB) defined in a previous research [20] were calculated for all selected cases. The 
overall quantitative benefits for the firm are: (1) 42.22% of time benefit; (2) (-251.21%) 
man-hour benefit; and (3) (-64.28%) cost benefit. It is noted that except the time benefit, the 
surveying results of the other two measures, MHB and CB, were not pleasant at all. It should of 
no surprise that the quantitative model was defined based on the parameter values of the 
traditional problem-solving approaches. As the CBI-CPS involves almost all staffs of the firm to 
participate in the problem solving, the man-hours and cost spent tended to be higher. While 
interviewing with the managers of the CoPs, some complained that their staffs were more 
enthusiastic in solving problems of the EPSU than in their own jobs. 
 
5.5 Qualitative benefit analysis 
 In contrast to the quantitative benefits, the qualitative benefits resulted from a CBI-CPS are not 
so transparent to most users; however, they are nevertheless significant. Identification of the 
qualitative benefits is difficult. In the current research the qualitative benefits were identified 
through interviews with the engineers/managers of CECI who participated in the CBI-CPS 
problem solving and through "focus-group meetings" with the managers of the CoPs. The 
interviews were conducted from 2010/03~2010/06. The managers of all thirty-two CoPs of the 
firm were interviewed. The major qualitative benefits identified include: (1) increase of the firms 
intellectual assets—during the process of organizational knowledge creation, all participants 
(including whom read but didn’t participate in discussions) accumulate their knowledge related to 
the posed problem, and the accumulated knowledge may be useful in the future; (2) solving of 
problems that cannot be solved before—in the traditional approach, the problems are discussed 
and solved by a taskforce with only limited members from selected disciplines, which may 
sometimes exclude the real experts (who have solved the similar problems before) of the problem 
due to any unavailability reason; (3) increase of the Medici Effect—when integrated with a KMS, 
the CBI-CPS can incorporate all staffs within the firm and increase the frequency of intersections 
and thus maximize the Medici Effect, and thus increase the probability of problem solving; (4) 
improvement of client's satisfaction—as the CBI-CPS shortens the required problem-solving time, 
client satisfaction is significantly improved (this is supported by almost all managers of CoPs); (5) 
 16
traditional cognitive science approach of problem solving are improved with formulated 
lessons-learned of solved cases, so that the lessons-learned can be retrieved and reused by the 
questioner. 
 
2. Improvement of generalization and conceptualization 
 Traditional DSS approach suffers in the generalization and conceptualization of the proposed 
and implemented solutions to the posed problems [2]. Such drawbacks are improved with the 
CBI-CPS by inducing the domain experts in tuning the solution for a specific problem. The 
problem of no optimizing or improvement mechanism mentioned by Li and Love [2] is also 
improved in the CBI-CPS by a recursive process of solution discussions, where the Questioner 
“socializes” with Responders via a series of discussions in the CoP. As a result, the Responder 
can improve his/her solution based on the solution of previous Responders; and the Questioners 
can select the best solution (based on his/her own knowledge and experiences) before he/she 
develops the final solution. This is how the improvement and optimization mechanism is realized 
in a CBI-CPS. 
 
3. Improvement of temporary-multi-organization 
 The problem of “temporary-multi-organization (TMO)”, addressed by Li and Love [2], in 
construction industry is also better tackled by the CBI-CPS, since the previous problem-solving 
cases are recorded with the KMS and modified by the Questioners and Responders participating 
in the CBI-CPS problem solving. Such accumulation of lessons-learned does not only provides a 
source of organization’s intellectual assets, but also develops the learning capability of an 
organization to become a learning organization (LO) [19,13]. This is very different from 
traditional information process approaches that relies on machine learning, and also expands the 
learning scope of traditional individual cognitive problem-solving approach. 
 
5.7 Limitations of the Proposed Model 
 The analysis of benefits generated by the CBI-CPS is based on the proposed quantitative model. 
In that model, the benefits of a CBI-CPS are measured by questionnaire surveying with 
problem-solving participants to compare the required efforts for problem solving between the 
traditional and the CBI-CPS approaches. An essential assumption for this model is that the 
participants should be able to provide the unbiased required parameters of the two approaches 
correctly. Although strategies were adopted to mediate the bias and errors made by the 
questionnaire responders, residual errors may still exist. 
 A second limitation resides in the quantitative model itself, since many benefits are not 
quantifiable with the proposed model. For example, the benefits of knowledge learned from the 
 18
CBI-CPS if the problem-solving activities are not recorded but conducted by the participants of 
the CBI-CPS. An organizational macro measure may be developed in the future to include the 
contributions of problem-solvers who benefit from the CBI-CPS but unrecorded. Finally, the 
current research focuses on the engineering consulting firm, the same model can be applied to 
measure the benefits of the CBI-CPS in the other construction organizations, too. 
 
七、誌謝 (Acknowledgement) 
 The valuable case study information presented in this paper was provided by CECI, Taipei. The 
authors would like to express sincere appreciations to Mr. Chen, G. L., and other staffs of the 
Department of Business and Research and Department of Information Systems, China 
Engineering Consultants, Inc., Taipei, Taiwan.  
 
八、參考文獻 (References) 
[1] Runeson G. (1994). “The future of building research.” Australian Institute of Building 
Papers, 5, 3-8. 
[2] Li, H. and Love, P. E. D. (1998). “Developing a theory of construction problem solving, 
Construction Management and Economics.” 16(6), 721-727. 
[3] Mezher, M., Abdul-Malak, M. A. Ghosn, I., and Ajam, M. (2005). “Knowledge Management 
in Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Consulting: A Case Study.” Journal of 
Management in Engineering, ASCE, 21(3), 138-147. 
[4] Carrillo, P. and Chinowsky P. (2006). “Exploiting knowledge management: The engineering 
and construction perspective.” Journal of Management in Engineering, ASCE, 22(1), 2-10. 
[5] Lin, Y. C., Wang, L. C., and Tserng, H. P. (2006). “Enhancing knowledge exchange through 
web map-based knowledge management system in construction: Lessons learned in Taiwan.” 
Automation in Construction, 15(6), 693-705. 
[6] Dave, B. and Koskela, L. (2009). “Collaborative knowledge management-A construction 
case study.” Automation in Construction, 18(7), 894-902. 
[7] Yu, W. D., Yang, J. B., Tseng, J.  C. R., Liu, S. J., and Wu, J. W. (2010). “Proactive Problem 
Solver for Construction.” Automation in Construction, 19(6), 808-816. 
[8] Swaak, J., Lansink, A., Heeren, E., Hendriks, B., Kalff, P., Den Oudsten, J-W., Böhmer, R., 
Bakker, R., and Verwijs, C. (2000). “Measuring knowledge management investments and 
results: two business cases.” paper presented at the 59th AEPF-Tagung, Bremen, 3rd, 
 20
九、相關著作發表表列 
 期刊論文 
1. Yu, W. D., Yang, J. B., Tseng, J. C. R., Liu, S. J., and Wu, J. W. “Proactive Problem 
Solver for Construction,” Automation in Construction, Vol. 19, No. 6, pp. 808-816, 2010. 
(SCI, EI, IF=1.66) (NSC 97-2221-E-216 -039) 
2. Yu, W. D., Chang, P.L., Yao, H. H., and Liu, S.J. “KVAM: Model for Measuring 
Knowledge Management Performance of Engineering Community of Practice,” 
Construction Management and Economics, Vol. 27, No. 8, pp. 733-747, 2009. (EI) 
3. 姚宣合、余文德、楊智斌、曾秋蓉、劉沈榮、張佩倫，「營建知識社群知識加值績
效量化評估模式之研究」，中國土木水利工程學刊，第 22 卷，第 1 期，pp.365-379，
2009。(EI) (NSC 96-2221-E-216 -054) 
  
研討會論文 
4. Yu, W. D., Yang, J. B., Tseng, J. C. R., and Yu, C. T., “Model of Proactive 
Problem-Solving for Construction Knowledge Management,” Proceedings of 
International Symposium on Automation and Robotics in Construction 2007 (ISARC 
2007), Session 1-C—Management and Production Aspects (1), Sept. 19~21, 2007, 
Kochin, India, pp. 493~500, 2007. 
5. Yu, W. D., Yao, H. H., Liu, S.J., and Chang, P.L., “Knowledge Value Adding Model for 
Quantitative Performance Evaluation of the Community of Practice in a Consulting 
Firm,” Proceedings of The Sixth International Conference on Engineering 
Computational Technology (ECT 2008), Session VIII—Decision Making in Engineering 
Management, Sept. 2~5, Athens, Greece, 18 pp., 2008. 
6. Yu, W. D., Yao, H. H., Liu, S.J., and Chang, P.L. “Measuring Performance of 
Knowledge Community of Practice in an Engineering Consulting Firm,” paper 
submitted to the Journal of Management in Construction, ASCE, for review and possible 
publication, 40 pp., 2008/8. 
 22
英文： 
The proposed Construction Business Intelligence-based Professional 
Service Platform Model and System combines knowledge analysis, 
expertise analysis, problem answering, problem dispatching module, 
and a lessons learning. Such a system has been proved to be very 
beneficial for construction firms (including engineering consultants) in 
improving their problem-solving capability and efficiency, and thus 
enhancing their competitiveness. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
本產品可以結合現有之知識管理系統(KMS)或獨立開發成為一網路
服務系統(Web Service System)，可以輔助營建產業之業務執行(含
緊急問題解決、備標、估價、監造…等)功能，亦可獨立開發成為
單一專業服務功能(例如估算、求償、工程法律諮詢等)之系統。 
技術特點 
具有知識分析、專家人力分析、資訊再取、問題分派以及經驗學習
等五大功能模組，可分析組織之智慧資產、人力資產，具有累積與
再利用過去經驗與知識之功能，並能連結具有相關知識之專家的能
力。 
推廣及運用的價值 
本系統可以推廣至國內、外之營建產業、顧問服務業以及任何已經
推行知識管理之組織與單位，對於提升知識管理加值運用之價值顯
著。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
無研發成果推廣資料 
研討會論文 3 3 100% 
1. 姚宣合、余文
德，「工程顧問公司
社群知識加值績效
評估模式之研究」，
2008年 7 月 31 日，
2008 營建管理研討
會論文集，斗六市，
雲林科技大學，10 
pp.，2008。 
2. 魏宇德、余文
德，「文字探勘技術
應用於自動建立經
驗學習檔案之研
究」，2008年 7 月 3
日，第十二屆營建工
程與管理學術研討
會論文集，Session 
05 營建資訊科技，
高雄市，蓮潭國際文
教會館，10 pp.，
2008。 
3. 張佩倫、余文
德、劉沈榮，「工程
顧問導入知識管理
系統個案探討—台
灣世曦工程顧問之
經驗」，2008年 7 月
3 日，第十二屆營建
工程與管理學術研
討 會 論 文 集 ，
Session 05 營建資
訊科技，高雄市，蓮
潭國際文教會館，10 
pp.，2008。 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 1 1 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
1. Yu, W. D., Yang, 
J. B., Tseng, J. C. 
R., and Yu, C. 
T., ＇Model of 
Proactive 
Problem-Solving 
for Construction 
Knowledge 
Management,＇ 
Proceedings of 
International 
Symposium on 
Automation and 
Robotics in 
Construction 2007 
(ISARC 2007), 
Session 
1-C—Management 
and Production 
Aspects (1), Sept. 
19~21, 2007, 
Kochin, India, pp. 
493~500, 2007. 
2. Yu, W. D., Yao, 
H. H., Liu, S.J., 
and Chang, 
P.L., ＇Knowledge 
Value Adding Model 
for Quantitative 
Performance 
Evaluation of the 
Community of 
Practice in a 
Consulting 
Firm,＇ 
Proceedings of The 
Sixth 
International 
Conference on 
Engineering 
Computational 
Technology (ECT 
2008), Session 
VIII—Decision 
Making in 
Engineering 
Management, Sept. 
2~5, Athens, 
Greece, 18 pp., 
2008. 
3. Yu, W. D., Yao, 
H. H., Liu, S.J., 
and Chang
 
