 1
Abstract 
This study chose six indices to discuss the relationship between data quality and the 
precision of positioning. These indices were observations, multipath on L1, multipath on L2, 
observations by cycle slips, clock offset and frequency stability. To reduce common errors, many 
types of GPS receivers were selected and set up at the Ultra-Short Distance Network of NML 
(National Measurement Laboratory, Taiwan). The first four indicators were calculated with Teqc 
software and the last two indicators were computed by Bernese software. Furthermore, the 
observations of three GPS tracking stations were downloaded from the internet, short baseline 
(about 25 km), middle baseline (about 150 km) and long baseline (around 2000 km) are 
processed by Bernese software. 
The analytical results indicate that clock stability was identified as a very critical factor for 
the positioning, in which a maximum error of 17.5 mm was found. Multipath in which a 
maximum error of 10.2 mm was identified, was a second important factor for the precision of 
coordinates. Moreover, cycle slips and observations effects were not very important but 
sometimes they seemed still influence on the precision of positioning. Finally, clock offset effects 
did not critically affect the GPS results. Hopefully the information in this study is useful for GPS 
users in purchasing a GPS receiver and in processing GPS data. 
Keywords: GPS, observations, multipath, cycle slips, clock offset, frequency stability 
 
1. Introduction 
During the past two decades, the Global Positioning System (GPS) has grown from a 
nascent military system to the most widely used, accurate, and reliable navigational tool for 
geodesy, navigation, geophysics, geodynamics, crustal movement, and cadastral surveying in the 
world. The U.S. Air Force manages the GPS program and currently supports 29 active GPS 
satellites, and also maintains five GPS monitoring and control stations worldwide that provide 
operational control but do not include equipment for monitoring modernized signal quality. To 
maintain and ensure the accuracy of positioning, an accurate and efficient system for calibrating 
the GPS receivers must be established [Lee et al., 2003]. Besides, thousands of GPS tracking 
stations were built around the world for engineering and science applications, and the continuous 
GPS data were adopted by many scientists and engineers to finish their research. For Example, 
Prawirodirdjo and Bock [2004] analysis the tectonic plates on the basis of data from 106 globally 
distributed continuous GPS stations; Wernicke et al. [2004] established a continuous GPS 
network in the Yucca Mountain area for providing the most reliable measurements of geodetic 
strain patterns across the permanent repository for high-level radioactive waste. Moreover, 
Fernandes et al. [2004] focus on the break-up of the African tectonic plate into separate Nubian 
and Somalian blocks based on continuous GPS data; Milne et al. [2004] adopt the continuous 
GPS measurements to yield a geographically dense suite of three-dimensional crustal 
deformation rates in Fennoscandia. Therefore, the data quality of the tracking stations has 
become more and more important. 
While analyzing the noise in GPS time series is important for providing realistic parameter 
uncertainties, it does not provide a mean for reducing that noise. However, classification of the 
noise components can provide clues as to the source of the noise and point to the right fields of 
research to help increase the accuracy and precision. For example, geodetic monument instability 
due to varying conditions of the anchoring media (e.g., soil, bedrock, buildings) is considered an 
important source of noise, thought to follow a random walk process [Johnson and Agnew, 1995]. 
 3
errors that are more difficult to correct; they differ according to the property of reflection 
surfaces around the antennas. Yet, if the allocation of satellites under observation being 
similar at the same spot, these effects will repeat their appearance—that is, multipath effects 
shall manifest the characteristic of periodicity [Johnson, 1995]. 
(4) o/slps: This index is equal to observations by cycle slips, without unit. To put it in a simple 
way, cycle clips refer to the sudden phase jumps owing to satellite loss lock in phase data. 
Loss lock may take place under circumstances such as the blocking of satellite signals by 
surrounding buildings, the influences of the ionospheric and tropospheric delay, and the 
defects of the receiver itself [Teunissen and Kleusberg, 1998]. In carrier phase observation, 
the phenomenon of cycle clips takes place very often. It has similar influences on distance 
observation compared with those of the ambiguity. It is a very important issue when it comes 
to accurate positioning arrangement, and we have to detect as well as repair the problems with 
care. At present, generally speaking, most of the software programs have automatic detection 
and repairing functions for cycle clips. 
The index we adapt is “the number of observations” divides with “the number of cycle 
clips”; that is, every n number of data will come up with one cycle clip. Here we adapt 
polynomial methods to detect cycle clips. The principle of this method is to register 
polynomials to raw data, the single-difference data, the double-difference data, the 
triple-difference data, or a linear combination of L1 and L2 data. We first examine whether 
cycle clips have taken place within the registration points; if they are within the polynomial 
windows, then we would estimate the point value of the data; if they go beyond the 
pre-established standard value, then they are regarded as cycle clips. Two standard values 
have to be set up when we make use of this method to deal with cycle clips: one is the 
occurring time of cycle clips, and the other is the path value of cycle clips [UNAVCO, 2005]. 
(5) tp: Receiver’s clock offset, measured in seconds. 
(6) fp: Receiver’s frequency stability, without unit. 
When it comes to calculating time offset and frequency stability within the receivers, we 
utilize undifferentiated GPS phase data to calculate receiver’s clock errors. The principle of 
calculation is shown in Fig. 1. Owing to the fact the receiver A and receiver B can observe the 
same satellites at the same time, through the calculation of receiver clock errors, we may thus 
obtain the time offset at each observation period of the rubidium clock in receiver A and the 
quartz clock in receiver B. Examples of the calculation results are shown in Fig. 2. 
Our data processing is based on Berness version 4.2 software developed by 
Astronomical Institute, University of Berne (AIUB). In order to obtain more accurate data on 
receiver’s time and frequency, before calculation, aside from carrying out cycle slips 
examination and data smoothing based on phase data, while calculating unknown values, we 
further make use of output residuals to leave out observations and satellites that have more 
noises. In this way, we may obtain more accurate data on time offset and frequency stability 
in receivers [Beutler et al., 2001]. 
However, since atomic clock frequencies shift constantly, it is not possible to calculate 
average values accurately; even the estimated standard deviation would diverge. Therefore, 
the Allan Deviation is adopted here to estimate the offset and stability of the frequencies 
[Lesage and Ayi, 1984]. The calculative method of Modified Allan Deviation is to calculate 
the estimated standard deviation after the double-difference of the data. The formulas are as 
follows: 
 5
Figures 6 illustrate the maps of stations TNML, TWTF, PKGM and USUD. In these figures, 
TNML denotes the test place (Ultra-Short Distance Network). Besides, table 1~3 show the results 
of short, middle and long distance relative positioning. The positioning precision was evaluated 
with 4-hour repeatability of coordinates and we still use red color to make the worst results. 
The clock stability (fp) was identified as a very critical factor for the positioning, in which a 
maximum error of 17.5 mm (the difference between type L and type N of short distance relative 
positioning) was found. Formula (4) can be applied to explain why clock stability is more 
important than clock offset [Leick, 2004]. 
2
210 )()( oeoe ttattaa −+−+=ε   (4) 
where ε denotes the correction of clock; a0, a1 and a2 respectively represent the clock bias, 
clock drift and clock drift-rate; t is the receiver’s clock, and toe is the referential clock. Because ε 
is often applied to eliminate the clock error and can be logged by most of the GPS receivers, it is 
decreased when data are processed. However, the clock stability a1 is not logged or modified, so 
it is very important for positioning. 
Furthermore, multipath (mp1 and mp2) in which a maximum error of 10.2 mm (the 
difference between type J and type K of long distance relative positioning) was identified, was a 
second important factor for the precision of coordinates. Moreover, cycle slips (o/slips) and 
observations (obs) effects were not very important but sometimes they seemed still influence on 
the precision of positioning. 
Finally, clock offset (tp) effects did not critically affect the GPS results. Hopefully, the 
information presented in this study is helpful for GPS users when they decide to purchase any 
GPS receiver and to process GPS data. 
 
5. Applying Quality Indices to Data Received at Tracking Stations 
In order to testify the practicality of data quality indices on tracking station, we have also 
collected the data received at the Keng-Ting tracking station maintained by Ministry of the 
Interior in year 2002 (from April 20th to April 25th), 2003 (from October 28th to November 6th), 
and 2004 (from January 5th to January 7th). In the mean time, we analyses the data received at 
Keng-Ting station during different periods using the six indices mentioned above, and the 
calculation results are shown in chart 4. 
According to the analysis done in the last section, the data quality index that influences most 
on positioning precision goes to frequency stability. The best calculation result rests in the data 
obtained in 2002, with its short distance positioning precision is 2.6 mm and long distance 
positioning precision is 21.7 mm, both of them are the best result of the three periods. In addition, 
the short distance positioning precision of year 2003 is 3.0 mm and long distance positioning 
precision is 25.6 mm. Comparing the calculation results of the two years mentioned above, the 
frequency stability of year 2002 is better than that of 2003 about one order, and therefore its 
precision lifts up to about 13~15 % when it comes to short distance or long distance positioning. 
The frequency stability of 2003 and 2004 belong to the same order, but the other data quality 
indices of 2004 are worse in evidence. When it comes to multipath indices, the result of 2004 has 
an error of about 0.5 m more in comparison with that of 2003, and therefore its positioning 
precision falls behind for about 11~16 %; in addition, we have also found out that the frequency 
stability of Keng-Ting station goes down year by year. We shall render receivers proper 
maintenance so as to reduce the amount of errors. As for choosing the data of tracking station, the 
 7
2004 are apparently worse, and therefore its positioning precision is worse, too. Therefore, we 
suggest that, in the future, when choosing GPS tracking stations, the data which possesses 
better frequency stability and smaller multipath shall be chosen as a priority when performing 
calculations. 
(3) In the process of special environment tests, since we merely set up one single receiver within 
a short period, the result of frequency stability and the amount of data, respectively, show 
slight difference. In addition, judging from the indices of data quality, it is obvious that the 
high-voltage power tower influence the multipath and cycle clips in a great deal, and thus 
result in a relatively high RMS of short distance and long distance relative positioning. 
Therefore, when GPS tracking stations suffer from electromagnets, the data of their multipath 
effects and cycle clips will rise up and affect the positioning precision along the way. 
(4) In the future, according to the result of this research, we may establish an automatic 
calculation program to analysis the data quality of GPS tracking stations, putting into practice 
the data quality governance of each tracking station. In the hope to, through this governance 
process, discover going-wrongs and deal with out-of-track situations as early as possible 
when the equipments break down or when changes occur to the environments of tracking 
stations, so as to ensure the data quality of each tracking station. 
 
8. References 
Beavan, J. (2005), Noise properties of continuous GPS data from concrete pillar geodetic 
monuments in New Zealand and comparison with data from U.S. deep drilled braced 
monuments, J. Geophys. Res., 110, B08410, doi:10.1029/2005JB003642. 
Beutler, G., E. Brockmann, R. Dach, P. Fridez, W. Gurtner, U. Hugentobler, J. Johnson, L. 
Mervart, M. Rothacher, S. Schaer, T. Springer, and R. Weber (2001), Bernese GPS Software 
Version 4.2, Astronomical Institute, University of Berne. 
Chen, C. C., and T. K. Yeh (2002), A Study on Enhancing Precision of GPS Positioning Using the 
Short Range Distance Baseline Field, Journal of Surveying Engineering, American Society 
of Civil Engineering, 128(1), 21-38. 
Christie, J. R. I., P. B. Bentley, J. W. Ciboci, C. A. Gellrich, J M. Gondek, B. K. Knoth, M. B. 
Ressler, and G. N. Oetzel (2004), GPS signal quality monitoring system, Proceedings of the 
17th International Technical Meeting of the Satellite Division of the Institute of Navigation, 
2239-2245. 
Fernandes, R. M. S., B. A. C. Ambrosius, R. Noomen, L. Bastos, L. Combrinck, J. M. Miranda, 
and W. Spakman (2004), Angular velocities of Nubia and Somalia from continuous GPS 
data: implications on present-day relative kinematics, Earth and Planetary Science Letters, 
222(1), 197-208. 
Gunawardena, S., A. Soloviev, and F. V. Graas (2005), Wideband dual-frequency 
transform-domain GPS instrumentation receiver for signal quality and anomalous event 
monitoring, Proceedings of the Annual Meeting - Institute of Navigation, Proceedings of the 
61st Annual Meeting of The Institute of Navigation, 516-527. 
Johnson, H., and D. C. Agnew (1995), Monument motion and measurements of crustal velocities, 
Geophys. Res. Lett., 22, 2905-2908. 
Johnson, J. (1995), The Role of Multipath in Antenna Height Tests at Table Mountain, UNAVCO. 
Lee, C. W., T. K. Yeh, and G. S. Peng (2003), Traceability in Metrology and Uncertainty 
Evaluation of a Calibration System for GPS Receivers, SPIE – The International Society for 
 9
 
Fig. 2 Examples of the calculation results of receiver’s clock errors 
  
Fig. 3 Types of testing receivers 
 
Fig. 4 Ultra-Short Distance Network of NML 
  
Fig. 5 The testing commentary 
 11
Table 4 Results of data quality and positioning precision at KDNM station 
 Indices of data quality Positioning 
precision 
No obs mp1 
(m) 
mp2
(m) 
o/slps tp 
(seconds)
fp Short 
(mm) 
Long 
(mm)
2002 21669 0.27 0.29 10 6.57E-11 5.95E-14 2.6 21.7 
2003 18993 0.24 0.25 88 1.26E-10 3.68E-13 3.0 25.6 
2004 22732 0.73 0.74 92 2.98E-10 5.02E-13 3.6 30.5 
Table 5 Results of data quality and positioning precision at special environments 
 Indices of data quality Positioning 
precision 
No obs mp1 
(m) 
mp2
(m) 
o/slps tp 
(seconds)
fp Short 
(mm) 
Long 
(mm)
Parking 
lot 
2788 0.49 0.78 2788 8.81E-06 3.42E-10 
RMS 
0.6 
RMS 
1.5 
Swimming 
pool 
3423 0.33 0.53 1333 8.57E-06 3.94E-09 
RMS 
1.2 
RMS 
2.2 
High-voltage 
power tower 
3067 0.75 1.13 170 8.94E-06 1.31E-09 
RMS 
4.8 
RMS 
9.3 
 
9. 計畫成果自評 
此研究中各項 GPS 資料收集、品質分析的過程中，已提供相關研究人員一個相當好的
學習研究經驗，並且經由 GPS 資料品質的分析，由於每個因素造成之影響量大小不同，所
以我們在未來的 GPS 資料取樣上，便可以將品質較差的資料捨去，對於 GPS 定位精度的取
捨也提供了一套客觀的參考依據，這些資訊對於往後相關的 GPS 研究來說，是相當寶貴且
有助益的。本計畫的研究成果相當豐富，茲整理已發表或已提出至專業期刊審查的論文如
下： 
Yeh, T. K., C. S. Chen, C. G. Wang, Y. A. Liou, C. S. Wang, 2005. Study on the certificating 
method of GPS data quality, International Symposium on Remote Sensing 2005 – ISRS 
2005, October 12 ~ October 14, Jeju, Korea, pp.353~356. 
Yeh, T. K., C. S. Chen, G. Xu, 2006. Clarifying the relationship between the clock errors and 
positioning precision of GPS receiver, VI Hotine-Marussi Symposium of Theoretical and 
Computational Geodesy: Challenge and Role of Modern Geodesy, May 29 ~ June 2, Wuhan, 
China, pp.91. 
Yeh, T. K., C. S. Wang, C. W. Lee, Y. A. Liou, 2006. Construction and uncertainty evaluation of a 
calibration system for GPS receivers, Metrologia, 43, pp.1~10. (SCI/EI) 
Yeh, T. K., C. S. Chen, 2006. Constructing a system to monitor the data quality of GPS receivers, 
Computers & Geosciences, submitted. (SCI) 
Yeh, T. K., Y. A. Liou, C. S. Chen, 2006. Enhancing the precision of GPS static relative 
positioning using the indices of GPS data quality, Journal of Geophysical Research, 
submitted. (SCI) 
 
