  1 
具抑菌性蠶絲蛋白質/聚麩胺酸之電紡薄膜製程開發與應用 
Biological properties of conformation controlled electrospun silk fibroin webs 
楊正昌 
台北醫學大學/口腔醫學院/生醫材料暨工程研究所 
計畫期間：98 年 08 月 01 日至 99 年 07 月 31 日 
計畫編號：NSC98-2221-E038-002 
 
ABSTRACT 
The cell proliferation, differentiation, and mineralization were examined by MTT 
assay, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, alizarin red S staining, and von Kossa 
staining. In the preliminary study, the great character of cell mineralization on SF 
particles was proved by alizarin red S staining and von Kossa staining. For this reason, 
the different type (electrospun scaffold) matrix of SF was worthy of continued research.  
In the following study, the electrospun SF scaffold showed different morphology, 
wettability, and secondary structure after methanol treatment of various concentrations.  
The detailed results of cell culture will be compared in the oral presentation. 
Keywords: silk fibroin, electrospinning, wettability, MC3T3-E1, cell proliferation, cell 
differentiation, cell mineralization  
 
INTRODUCTION 
SF is a fibrous protein similar to human fibrinogen such as collagen [1]. Unlike 
collagen which is potential risk of TSE (transmissible spongiform encephalopathies), SF 
is a good substitution protein for collagen due to its biocompatibility and low degradable 
rate after implantation. It is desirable to have a substitution for collagen to meet clinical 
requirements with low cost.  
The high glycine content and very regular conformations of SF give rise to great 
stability to most of the solvents. High ionic strength aqueous salt solution is needed to 
dissolve SF. Prior to prepare processable SF solution; salts need to be removed by 
  3 
electrospinning process. The schematic diagram of apparatus and parameters were 
shown in Figure 1 [9]. After methanol treatment with various concentrations (60, 80, and 
100 %), the scaffolds could be used. 
Scaffolds analysis 
The morphology, wettability, and secondary structure of electrospun SF scaffolds 
were examined by SEM, contact angle measurement, and FTIR-ATR, respectively.  
The SF scaffolds were prepared by electrospinning, and the morphology of samples was 
examined by SEM after vacuum metalizing. The diameters of fibers were analyzed by 
CrolDraw
®  
11 based on SEM pictures. Wettability of electrospun specimens was 
determined by using a contact angle meter at room temperature. A single filtered water 
droplet (4 L) was supplied by a micro-syringe and approached by a sample stage 
driven by stepper motor under programmed automatic operation (500 ms). The effect on 
the secondary structure was analyzed by FTIR-ATR (scan number: 8). The results 
spectra were further analyzed by PeakFit
®  
v4.11 for peak separation, and displayed with 
crystallinity index (ratio of A1628/A1665, silk II/silk I). 
Cell culture and scaffolds seeding 
MC3T3-E1 cells (osteoblast-like cell, clone 4, ATCC) were cultured in L-ascorbic 
acid -MEM supplemented with 10% (v/v) fetal bovine serum and 1% (v/v) antibiotic/ 
antimycotic solution at 37 ℃ in a humidified atmosphere containing 5% CO2. The 
medium was replaced once every three days and the cells were separated from tissue 
culture flasks with 0.25% trypsin/EDTA solution for particles and scaffolds seeding.  
The particles were added about 5 mg per well and each scaffold was cut into 1x1 cm
2
 
per piece in 24-well plate. MC3T3-E1 cells were seeded on the scaffolds at a density of 
5000 cells/cm
2
. 
Cell proliferation, differentiation, and mineralization assay 
The cell proliferation, differentiation, and mineralization were examined by MTT 
  5 
Figure 4 is the SEM of electrospun SF scaffolds fabricated under the voltage of 20 
kV and distance of 7 cm. Before methanol treatment, the average fiber diameter was 
118.3±10 nm (no treatment). The average fiber diameter was reduced to 111.2±12 nm by 
100% methanol treatment. When the methanol concentration was decreased below 80%, 
the fiber morphology became fusion on the electropun SF scaffold surface. 
Wettability of scaffolds 
Table 1 is the summary of contact angle measurement for electrospun SF scaffolds 
treated with or without methanol. The electrospun SF scaffolds showed high contact 
angle value of 117.7±0 indicating the hydrophobic character. Increasing wettability was 
found for all scaffold surfaces after methanol treatment. The poor wettability was 
observed on the scaffold surface when methanol concentration was increased. The 
wettability change might be associated with the change in surface functional group 
composition and surface hydrogen-bonding interactions due to SF conformation 
transition in the vicinity of the polymer surface after methanol treatment. 
Secondary structure transition of scaffolds 
According to the FTIR-ATR spectra, the peaks were assigned to random coil that 
showed strong absorption bands at 1665 cm
-1 
(amide I), 1540 cm
-1 
(amide II), and 1235 
cm
-1 (amide III) and β-sheet structure that showed strong absorption bands at 1628 cm-1 
(amide I), 1533 cm
-1 
(amide II), and 1265 cm
-1 
(amide III) [10]. The results and analysis 
were showed in Figure 5. After methanol treatment, it was found that the secondary 
structure of electrospun SF scaffolds tends to transform from random coil (silk I) into 
β-sheet structure (silk II). In terms of the analysis of peak separation, we obtained the 
crystallinity index (CI=A1628/A1665) of SF. When the concentration of methanol was 
increasing, it was found that the secondary structure of scaffolds tends to transform from 
silk I into silk II gradually. 
 
 
  7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 Alizarin red S staining for regenerated SF particles (Day 14 and 28). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 Von Kossa staining for regenerated SF particles (Day 28). 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
(b) 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期 2010年10月28日
國科會補助計畫
研發成果名稱
發明人
(創作人)
技術說明
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
技術/產品應用範圍
產業別
計畫名稱:
計畫主持人:
計畫編號: 學門領域:
(中文)
(英文)
成果歸屬機構
(中文)
(英文)
具抑菌性蠶絲蛋白質/聚麩胺酸之電紡薄膜製程開發與應用
楊正昌
98 -2221-E -038 -002 - 醫療與保健高分子
一種具有機可溶性再生蠶絲蛋白之高產量非透析法製程
HIGH YIELD DIALYSIS-FREE PROCESS FOR PRODUCING ORGANOSOLUBLE
REGENERATED SILK FIBROIN
臺北醫學大學 楊正昌,李勝揚,陳建中,徐云廷,
本發明係關於一種以相分離方式誘導蠶絲蛋白質由溶液中沉澱析出之非透析式
分離製程，其製程主要包括(a)將脫膠後之絲蛋白纖維溶於含金屬離子鹽之溶劑
，配製成絲蛋白溶液，(b)添加一多價酸根離子與金屬離子反應沉澱，降低絲蛋
白溶液中金屬鹽類之濃度與離子遮蔽效應，(c)提供剪切應力或能量，誘導絲蛋
白之沉澱析出，所得之再生絲蛋白無須經透析法製程，即具備有機可溶性而利
於後續之加工成型，可簡化製程、縮短加工時間、與高產率而具可量產性。本
發明製程簡化了生產蠶絲蛋白的製程，且顯著地縮短了製程時間至1小時至2小
時，習知透析製程係較複雜，且需要約2天至3天。除縮短所需時間之外，本發
明製程可使蠶絲蛋白之生產率提高至少8%。
The invention relates to a simple and high yield process for
producing a regenerated silk fibroin which does not need dialysis.
Particularly, a process of the invention is characterized in that the
silk fibroin is precipitated by applying a shear stress and/or
changing the solvent power of the fibroin solution. The process of
the invention simplifies the process of producing silk fibroin and
greatly shortens the process time to 1 to 2 hours, whereas the
conventional dialysis process is complex and needs around 2 to 3
days. In addition to reducing the time needed, the process of the
invention can increase productivity of silk fibroin by at least 8%.
紡織、成衣、服飾品及紡織製品製造業；醫療器材製造業；繩、纜、網、氈、毯製造
業；研究發展服務業；其他專業、科學及技術服務業
紡織、醫療器材、組織工程
非常可能
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
