Abstract
Since the 1980s, various types of accidents, such as fire, explosion, and toxic release, have
occurred in science parks (SCs) in Taiwan. The aftermath included financial losses, damaged
reputations, business and operation interruption, property damage, and loss of lives. Considering
loss prevention, this study plans an emergency response centre (ERC) in order to properly and
proactively cope with incidents occurring in the Southern Taiwan Science Park (STSIP) since its
inception in 1996. This article also design and promulgate the use of central monitoring system
(CMS) between the ERC and various plants located in the STSIP. With a view to alleviating
hazards, the integrated CMS could comprehensively bring a safer environment to all workers and
staff at STSIP. Only through the reviews of table-top or functional exercise and real accidents, a
comprehensive, fail-safe, and real-life system could be establish to lessen the hazards in STSIP.
Keywords: accidents; loss prevention; emergency response centre (ERC); Southern Taiwan
Science Park (STSIP); monitoring systems.
INTRODUCTION
The development of science parks (SCs) in Taiwan, such as the Southern Taiwan Science Park
(STSIP) in this study, is endeavoring to upgrade industries in southern Taiwan and to balance the
development throughout the island. Currently, STSIP consists of Tainan Science Park and
Kaohsiung Science Park (Stsipa, http//www.stsipa.gov.tw, 2006). With a total park area of 16.1
km2, abundant electricity and water supplies, STSIP is showing its extensive potential for future
development. There are two development phases for Tainan Science Park. The first-phase, the
construction of Shinshi base, began in 1996 and will be completed in 2006, with an area of 6.4
km2, estimated production value of 25.7 billion USD and employment of 72 500 people. The
second phase started in 2002 and to be complete by the end of 2010, with an area of 4 km2,
estimated production value of 14.3 billion USD and employment of 54 800 people.
Meanwhile, the Kaohsiung Science Park is to be completed in 2010, with estimated production
value of 14.3 bilion USD and employment of 52 000. Although STSIP would boost Taiwan’s 
gross domestic product (GDP) up to 10% annually, the park suffer significantly losses in recent
years. There have been two major fire accidents from two domestic plants. Although only minor
casualties were reported, tremendous property damages and business interruption losses were
recorded for more than 600 million USD (Lin et al., 2003). In addition, many fetal accidents have
been encountered in falling accidents with eight deaths from 2000 to 2006. Numerous minor
accidents also occurred in STSIP, including pinch, toxic leaks, colliding, drowning, butch fire,
explosion, and so on. To lessen hazard, a project of planning a suitable ERC is urgent for the
worsening situations in STSIP. As a very terrible industrial accident caused by Union Carbide
Corporation (UCC) at Bhopal in 1984 (Abbasi and Abbasi, 2005), many major accidents of oil,
gas, and chemical industries would yield large consequences—including major fires, explosions,
and toxic releases (Anderson, 2005). Similar types of accidents have brought about great
financial costs in Taiwan, India and in WesternEurope (Pasman and Suter, 2005). This study aims
to establish a sound, comprehensive ERC to reduce those unexpected accidents in STSIP. Upon
setting up ERC, a supervising policy should be established in order to create a comprehensive
information, response and decision-making centre—instead of relying on individual emergency
response team (ERT) for each plant.
In addition, ERC and those ERTs should still conform to the international standards regarding
to their operation procedures and emergency responses. The overall emergency system should
include a planning and preparing system for prevention, a maintaining system for abatement, a
timely and convening system of response, and an assistant programme for restoring action. As an
automatically or manually alarm from a specific plant was encountered—meaning the occurrence
of accident, the overseeing staff at ERC should summon and initiate the emergency system—to
verify and then respond to the incident. In responding to this type of emergency, the ERC of the
STSIP must be planned in advance and be equipped with appropriate equipments and facilities to
enable a commander to direct the necessary actions. In the past, the emergency situation could go
unheard or non-action due to insufficient information and/or slow dispatch of response team and
could end up losing important ‘golden’ response time and leading to serious and devastating
aftermath. After setting up ERC, the disaster-type accident should be controlled and well-handled
in STSIP.
Handled by the Emergency System All of the information is gathered for the emergency system
and each item is carefully filtered by an optimal planning system. Figure 3 shows the important
components in the system. Safety-oriented operating procedures, in combination with appropriate
equipment, trained personnel, and sound supervision and management, greatly reduce the risks
response workers face.
For procedures to be efficient, they must be (Strong and Irvin, 1996): (1) Written whenever
possible: most can be written in advance of an incident or operation and then tailored to the
specific situation. (2) Based on the best possible information: technical reports, papers, and other
sources provide guidance of standard safety practices. Previous experiences and personnel
knowledge help make specific adjustments. (3) Tested through training: response operations and
management systems must be practiced using realistic scenarios and hands-on exercises. (4)
Reviewed, critiqued, and revised: through the use of practical exercises and drills, together with
the careful review and analysis of actual incidents, procedures could be kept in the current and
applicable status.
NEEDED-SYSTEM FOR PLANNING ERC
Many types of systems are completely combined in ERC. Each system exercises its function to
convey information, and then instructions can be smoothly transmitted to the lower levels from
the commanders of STSIP administration. In some cases, accidents are initiated due to an
incomplete planning system, for the information and the instructions are interrupted in the
process of communication. Here, communication plays a pivotal role in any walk of life and more
so at a time of emergency when it can help or exacerbate the situation (Boppana and Mangalam,
1995).
The presence and concentration of hazardous substances at an incident scene or waste site must
be monitored accurately and constantly so that response professionals as well as the general
public are protected (Strong and Irvin, 1996). Thus, ERC required sound and thorough planning
for the system design. Each staff must accept to train for operating the diversification system
correctly. Director also needs to participate the training courses for knowing how to make a
correct order during emergency situation.
Photographic System of Wireless Networks
The system contains a whole set of video cameras, video recorders, and monitoring screens.
The wireless networks video cameras (802.11b and 802.11g) could be easily employed to connect
the video cameras and computers, alike with internet access by using wireless network card.
Follows are shown the functions of 802.11b and 802.11g: (1) 802.11b: The wireless local area
network (WLAN) of IEEE 802.11b could convey the data and information larger than 100 m
indoor and 300 m outdoor with information transferring speed 11 Mbps. (2) 802.11g: This type
belongs to 2.4 GHz with information transferring speed 54 Mbps (single-handed), which speeder
than 802.11b. 802.11g could be used to combine with 802.11b; if these two types of wireless
platforms had been employed at the same time, the information transferring speed will be
lessened to 11 Mbps.
Each internet card of 802.11g could download the information from 802.11b. By using this
system, the image is stored in a centralized computer, and the instructions and orders are then
sent to a commander of each stage; this makes a pre-recorded video unnecessary in this system
and saves time, money, and maintenance. All of the users with a wide-network and password
could log in to this system, and then download the information from a computer. In addition, a
cellular phone or PDA provides the shadow-sound service of multimedia, which is employed to
download the tableau at any time.
The ERC’S Monitoring System
This system provides safety-chain monitoring. It aims at integrating all of the safety apparatus
relative to life, property, and the public to keep the staff from danger. An ideal system, which
integrates all of the systems into the central monitoring system (CMS), would bring efficiency to
conveying the information and data, including toxic materials, electronic, fire control, intelligent
characteristic monitoring, and handling of data and information from the STSIP administration.
The internet is connected to the CMS for remote-controlled operation, monitoring, and alarm
transmission. By this, the system could increase the overall efficiency, and save the resources,
manpower, and cost of operation.
The ERC’S monitoring system is integrated by several subsystems, as delineated in Figure 4.
identifying hazards and problems that prevent efficient and safe operation (Zhao et al., 2005b).
The emergency response stages are divided into a false report, relief of the victims of a disaster,
training course for abating the accidents, maintenance of the ERS, notifying the pertinent staff
when accidents occur, and making an emergency rescue until all is restored.
All of the abovementioned stages are termed as a matrix table, which integrates the procedure
of processing the accident via the computer and various types of databases in the emergency
response system to provide accurate information. By the planning via the computer, this system
could function conveniently and quickly. Once an accident has occurred, what the decision-maker
has to do is merely to input the type of accident and the system will pop up the standard operating
procedure (SOP) on the screen, without a written one so as to curtail the emergency response
time.
In the beginning, we have to collect the related information and analysis in order to understand
the characterization of hardware, toxic gas/liquid and hazard in STSIP. In addition, the operating
procedure in coordination with the real ERS has to be gathered in advance to ensure all of the
facilities are under safe situations. The items necessary to this system are integrated as follows:
(1) A comprehensive database should be appropriately designed, planned, and established.
(2) Figure display.
(3) All the conceptual scenarios with corresponding accidents, property damages, injuries, and
loss of lives should be scrupulously created that could simulate the accident and evaluate the
extent of the damage in terms of property.
(4) Application software used ERC in three phases, including before, under, and after accident.
(5) Prompting priority sequence to deal with the accident.
(6) Restoration action should be conducted right after the accident.
(7) Assessment of the damages.
(8) Simulation of fire and explosion with its impacts.
(9) Quantification of risk assessment, together with consequence analysis.
(10) Establishment of the database of material safety data sheet (MSDS) used in STSIP.
This system conveys the information to ERC via a monitoring system. At the moment the
accident happens, the staff should inform the control center of the hazard information and
evacuate the workers immediately to keep them from danger. At the same time, the traffic control
center will be informed to evacuating the cars and workers out of the area of STSIP smoothly.
We had not made a special effort to set up a shelter-in-place in STSIP, because each plant has a
separated room for accepting workers while causing toxic-released accident, but not sorted as a
serious accident. Therefore, it is definitely necessary to design a procedure of quick evacuation so
as to lessen the hazard to the least extent. The emergency response flowchart is demonstrated in
Figure 5.
DISCUSSION
All system should be thoroughly combined in order to function efficiently with the database
updating regularly on computer systems in order to provide latest information. In early stage of
planning and establishing, the commander (decision-maker), deputy commander and the staff of
ERC should realize and exercise promptly system set-up.
It is very crucial for all users properly use the system that imbedded into the ERC at the STSIP
at the moment of emergency. Besides, an alternative back-up system should be integrated into the
ERC to counter the problems of telephone, cellular phone, electric power, and internet. Under this
circumstance, the portable notebook should be inaction to direct the information flows, such as
internet accessing, ordering and dispatching, phone-answering, phone message-recording,
information collecting and analysing, intelligent reporting to decision-makers, and connecting to
the ERS.
This delicate and portable system is movable and is not limited to a specific site or area.
Therefore, uncontrollable accidents could not impinge on the location of the ERC in STSIP—an
ERC can render
nearby or anywhere where the internet is accessible.
CONCLUSIONS
We regard the systems combined at the CMS should be rather important. With a view to
alleviating hazards, the CMS could comprehensively bring a safer environment to all workers and
staff at STSIP. To complete a comprehensive, useful and realistic system, all workers are
Figure Captions
Figure 1. Framework of the planning system
for ERC.
Figure 2. Relationship between the ERC and
accident directing centre.
Figure 3. Elements handled by the ERC.
Figure 4. Elements of the monitoring system
in ERC.
Figure 5. Flowsheet of emergency response
measures.
