一、中文摘要 
 
由於網際網路是由各式各樣的 IP 路由器交互相連而成的互連網路，所有的
路由器皆以封包的目的地位址為 IP 封包轉送的依據，因此 IP 封包如經過竄改來
源 IP 位址而形成偽造的 IP 封包，依舊可以在網際網路上經由路由器自由的進
出，與正常的 IP 封包轉送過程完全相同而無法分辨，同時也因為無法分辨而成
為駭客的攻擊技術之一，嚴重影響到網際網路的安全性。本計畫將針對此問題提
出一套網路的聯防機制，採用新設計的 IP 層的 label 交換通訊協定來提供路由
器之間的來源 IP 位址反向追蹤的認證功能。再藉由反向追蹤的認證機制來偵測
出具攻擊性的偽造 IP 封包，進而逐步圍堵，甚至將發送偽造 IP 封包的工作站之
網卡封閉，使其無法干擾到其他工作站正常封包的傳送。同時本計畫也將針對發
送偽造 IP 封包的路由器進行相同的聯防偵測機制，進而將此傳送偽造 IP 封包的
路由器與網際網路隔離，以增加整體網際網路的可靠度及安全性，並且聯防機制
的啟動與否，可視網路的狀況而定，並能與傳統的網路路由系統共存。 
本計畫除設計 IP 層的 label 交換通訊協定外，並將此新的路由演算法實作
於 Linux 作業系統的 IP 層核心程式原始碼，以實際的系統展示來驗證反向追蹤
認證功能可行性，並同時証明其演算法的時間複雜度為 O(1)。 
 
關鍵詞：IP 反向追蹤、label 交換通訊協定 
 
I 
偵測與隔離偽造IP封包的網路聯防策略(精簡報告)
三、報告內容 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Since the stateless Internet routers forward packets only based on their 
destination IP addresses, attackers can easily flood a victim with spoofing source IP 
address such as DoS or DDos attacks which can exhaust resources of the victim 
computer or cause the traffic jam near the victim’s network (Ferguson et al., 2000) 
(Lau et al., 2000). The best way to prevent these malicious packets traveled over the 
Internet is to promptly and reversely find out the path information of malicious 
packets to isolate the attackers. In other words, how to identify the malicious packets 
and start the traceback of these packets to their true source IP addresses has become 
the key technique to defeat Denial of Service attacks (Snoeren et al., 2002) 
(Waldvogel 2002) (Bala et al., 2002) (Aljifri 2003). 
In this paper, we leave the identification of malicious packet problem to IDS or 
firewall systems and focus the problem of tracing attacks back toward their true 
sources. Unfortunately, most IP traceback approaches have suffered from lasting long 
enough time for reconstructing a successful trace such as packet marking (Song et al., 
2000) (Goodrich 2002) (Lee et al., 2001) (Adler 2002), generating more additional 
network traffic to log the packet traveling information such as ICMP-based or 
hash-based (Bellovin 2000) (Stone 2000) (Snoeren et al., 2001), deriving more 
fragments while IP header size incremented to carry more trace information, or 
requiring the cooperative among routers with the whole ISP network or in AS level 
such as ingress filtering (Ferguson et al., 2000) (Stone 2000). Instead, we present a 
new approach for the traceback problem that has two different scenarios of the current 
Internet routing process. 
The first scenario is using the tunnel mechanism to realize the traceback in a 
prevention way. Since both ends of a tunnel are easily to trace each other in nature, 
we propose a simple way to create a virtual tunnel in Layer 3 for each pair of hosts 
across the Internet before they start communicating with each other. 
The second scenario is using the ARP address resolution protocol as the network 
ingress filter to realize the detection of source IP address spoofing at near the user site 
instead of ISP site. We propose a greedy process such that a local spoofing free of a 
small group of end-users can be used to achieve a global spoofing free Internet. In this 
manner, all Internet end-users are grouping into a large amount of reasonable small 
area networks and each small area network is assumed that it has one and only one 
1 
偵測與隔離偽造IP封包的網路聯防策略(精簡報告)
• Keeper is considered as a well-protected and backdoor-free Internet router which 
supports the functions of IP traceback. 
B. Keeper-based Internet 
As shown in Fig. 1, the topology of keeper-based Internet illustrates that all traffic 
between any pair of hosts, such as the attacker host HA and the victim host HV in Fig. 1, 
will travel exactly through two keepers, KA and KV. Since the concept of IP traceback 
is not a well-defined network standard, we have defined the process of IP traceback 
throughout this paper as the following four steps: 
Step 1. The attack host HA generates attack packets to the victim host HV. 
Step 2. The victim host HV detects that packets with the source IP address of HA are 
attacking. 
Step 3. On detecting attack packets, the victim host HV should notify its own keeper 
KV to directly traceback to the keeper KA of the original attack host HA. 
Step 4. The keeper KA can discard all subsequent attacking packets generated from 
HA to HV or prohibit all HA’s traffic and redirect them to a special VLAN to 
verify its system availability. 
The information of Step 1 and Step 2 should be supported from IP filtering 
devices such as IDS. The Step 3 is the critical section of traceback process between the 
two keepers of KA and KV. The last step is to perform all possible mechanisms to isolate 
the attack traffic from entering the Internet. 
Internet
Small Area Network Small Area Network Small Area Network
End-Users
Keeper
(Router)
…
… … …
Attacker Victim
HA HV
KA KV
 
Figure 1. The topology of the keeper-based Internet. 
 
3 
偵測與隔離偽造IP封包的網路聯防策略(精簡報告)
On arriving at the end of tunnel, the packet will be scanned by the keeper to 
verify whether the reserved bit is set or not. All incoming packets with reserved bit 
setting and destined to the keepers of the both ends of tunnel indicate that they must be 
applied the label switching protocol again. The keeper should restore both the 
destination and source IP addresses with the key field of the label record indexed as 
the label index of the source IP address field, set the reserved bit off, and recalculate 
the checksum fields before the packet is forwarding to their true destination. 
In fact, the two LA and LV labels forms a virtual tunnel between KA and KV such 
that all packets between the pair of hosts HA to HV will travel through the virtual tunnel 
between KA and KV. In other words, it is easily and promptly for KV to notify KA that is 
HV under attack by HA and KA can drop or stop all subsequent attack packets generated 
from HA whenever KA received the attack notification from KV and vice-versus.  
Ignoring the establishment of label switching tunnel procedure, the scheme has 
many advantages as follows: 
• The packet size is unchanged. No more additional packet should be generated 
except the attack notification. 
• The time complexity of hashed and direct index of the label switch table is 
negligible. 
• The most important property is that no needs of lasting enough long time attack 
traffic to reconstruct the traceback path information. 
Only one disadvantage is deduced that the source IP address is occupied by label 
between the pair of keepers such that the Internet routers can not correctly generate 
ICMP messages back to their original source IP address such as in the case of source 
quench.  
D. Establishing a Virtual Tunnel 
There are two ways of setting up a virtual tunnel between a pair of keepers. One 
is in piggyback mode and the other is in ICMP mode. Since the SYN, SYN-ACK, and 
ACK packets of the three-way handshaking protocol to establish a TCP connection are 
quite small size, we can add additional label switching information on the IP options 
and will never generate the fragment problem during the handshaking stage. 
In additional, establishing a virtual tunnel, all subsequent traffic including both 
the connection-oriented and connectionless traffic can travel through the same one 
tunnel without any effort. That is, only the first time of communicating between a pair 
of hosts needs to perform the establishment process but not to construct tunnels per 
connection. If the first packet between a pair of hosts is not the SYN packet of a TCP 
5 
偵測與隔離偽造IP封包的網路聯防策略(精簡報告)
Proof: Assume that there exits a host A such that A can directly deliver a packet to R 
without matching its source IP address of an ARP entry. By Lemma 1, if router R is 
the first next hop of host A, the source IP address and the source MAC address of the 
packet will match with an ARP entry in the router R. That is, it is impossible for a host 
to directly deliver a packet to router R without matching its source IP address of an 
ARP entry in R. Since all packets are forwarded from either a host or a router in the 
Internet, only the router can store-and-forward packets to router R under the case of 
without matching or a router forged by a host with spoofing source IP address. 
Lemma 3. If all routers within a keeper’s small area network are trusted, then the 
keeper’s small area network is spoofing free network. 
Proof: Let all routers within a keeper’s small area network have performed the ARP 
verification algorithm and mark the reserved bit of the flag of fragment field to 1 
whenever the source IP address and source MAC address matches an ARP entry of a 
trusted router. Under such conditions, if a router receives a packet with reserved bit 
mark to 1, it means that the packet has already been verified at its first hop router by 
Lemma 1. Therefore, it is spoofing free. Otherwise, if the packet matches an ARP 
entry in the current router, it is also spoofing free by Lemma 1. 
The rest condition is a packet without setting reserved bit and without matching 
an ARP entry. It means that the router is the first hop but fails to match. That is, the 
packet is absolute a spoofing packet by Lemma 2. 
As shown in Fig. 3, it is possible that the attacker knows the ARP verification 
algorithm and issues spoofing packets with the reserved bit marked. In such a situation, 
the next router will assume that the packet has already been verified at its first hop 
router. This is also implied that the packet should be passed from a router to this router. 
bypass
from
router
bypassspoof mark
ARP
match
spoof
marked
unicast
Yes No
Yes
Yes
No
No
No
Yes
 
Figure 3. The flow chart of spoofing free verification mechanism for 
all routers within the small area network. 
7 
偵測與隔離偽造IP封包的網路聯防策略(精簡報告)
network interface is proportional to the size of a LAN directly attached to the interface. 
In fact, the implementation of dynamic cache-based ARP table is usually smaller than 
the real size of a LAN. Consequently, the time complexity of searching ARP table can 
be considered as the average size of a LAN, that is, a constant time. 
If a packet is verified as a spoofing free one, the marking of the reserved bit of 
flag and the recalculating of checksum are also in a constant time. In fact, the time 
complexity of the ingress filtering of checking spoofing free is only a minor problem. 
How to deploy such a filtering scheme to all kinds of routers within the small area 
network would become the major deployment problem even only a minor modification 
of the routing algorithm. 
The time and space complexities of establishing virtual tunnels among keepers 
are significant. The larger end-users of a small area network will cause the larger size 
of label switching table. The larger size of label switching table implies that the keeper 
requires more time to search the label for all outgoing traffic (to the Internet). On the 
contrary, the label switching time for incoming traffic (from the Internet) is negligible 
because the value of label is the direct index of label switching table. That is, only the 
search problem of the label switching table of an outgoing packet should be taken into 
considerations. In addition, the total outgoing bandwidth of a keeper and the server or 
client type of users are also the major factors of the size of label switching table. 
Since the total outgoing traffic will be concentrated to the keeper and the 
bandwidth of keeper is limited, the amount of users of a small area network can be 
easily estimated as shown in Fig. 4. In this paper, we will focus on analyzing the case 
of the following conditions. Assume that there are 1000 hosts with a small area 
network. Each host with 0.1Mbps outgoing traffic will produce 100Mbps traffic to the 
1
0.775
0.55
0.275
0.1 0.075 0.050
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500
Hosts
M
bp
s 100Mbps
10Mbps
 
Figure 4. The relationship of the amount of hosts and the outgoing traffic of 
a host in a fixed outgoing bandwidth of 100Mbps and 10Mbps. 
9 
偵測與隔離偽造IP封包的網路聯防策略(精簡報告)
V. CONCLUSIONS 
In our approach, the tunnel scheme has the advantage of the traceback property in 
nature, but how to embed the label information into each packet in the current IPv4 
becomes the big problem in our proposed approach. Due to the replacement of the 
source IP address with a label, the router will cause a problem of sending ICMP packet 
back to its true source. Only both keepers of a tunnel know the true IP addresses of 
both end hosts. That is, if the router wants to issue an ICMP packet back to the source, 
the ICMP packet should be forwarding to the keeper as the reserved bit marked. In 
addition, we only consider the unicast traffic because the tunnel is an end-to-end 
mechanism. Many attacks may use the broadcast or multicast IP address. 
To compare with other approaches, our approach has solved many advantages. 
First, it is no needs of attacking traffic which must be last long enough for a successful 
trace. If an attacker is identified by IDS system, the pair of keepers can promptly 
closed the virtual tunnel to drop all subsequent attaching packets. Second, it is no 
needs to involve the cooperation among ISP or AS routers. The keeper is used as  a 
firewall or gateway for an organization. If both ends have the keeper function, the 
traceback function is supported. Otherwise, it is fully compatible with a traditional 
Internet router. Third, the label binding process can be piggybacked with TCP 
three-way handshaking process. The increasing of IP header will never cause the 
problem of IP fragmentation. During tunnel mode, the size of IP header remains 
unchanged such that no additional network traffic is generated. Finally, the major 
advantage of our approach is that the whole Internet is spoofing free if all 
organizations are under the protection of a keeper in tunnel mode. 
11 
偵測與隔離偽造IP封包的網路聯防策略(精簡報告)
(Aljifri 2003) H. Aljifri, "IP Traceback: A New Denial-of-Service Deterrent?," IEEE 
Security & Privacy, pp.24-31, 2003. 
(Snoeren et al., 2001) A. C. Snoeren, C. Partridge, L. A. Sanchez, C. E. Joines, F. 
Tchakountio, S. T. Kent, and W. 
 
 
13 
偵測與隔離偽造IP封包的網路聯防策略(精簡報告)
