中文摘要：  
隨著對無線通訊系統服務的需求增加，新一代無線通訊系統必須服務更多使用者以及滿足其不同的
服務型態。為了達到此目的，新世代通訊系統設計朝著兩個方向發展。第一是提升傳輸效能，即使單
位時間頻率內可傳輸最大的資料量，第二是針對不同服務型態，提供其該有的無線服務品質保證。而
隨著進階天線技術的發展，可大幅提高傳輸可靠度以及傳輸速率。因此，適用於進階天線技術的媒體
存取控制技術相形重要。在本計畫報告中，我們針對適應性天線系統及其系統模擬進行研究。配合我
們提的排程機制，主要在探討適應性天線系統對不同服務型態的影響。結果顯示，適應性天線系統所
生成的分空多工可有效使 FTP服務有效提升其效能，對 VoIP使用者來說，透過所提出的排程機制可
及時提升傳輸可靠度提升系統效能。 
關鍵詞: 適應性天線系統、分空多工、排程演算法。 
 
Abstract – As the increase of the demand of the wireless service, new generation of wireless communication 
system design needs to provide more users and satisfy their various service types. To this end, new age 
system design moves towards two directions. One is QoS guarantee of different service type. The other is 
transmission efficiency enhancement, which is in term of bits transmitted per second per hertz. As the 
development of multiple antenna technologies, the link reliability and throughput are both enhanced. 
Therefore, it is important to have a media access control which is applied for multiple antenna techniques.  
In this report, we investigate the system performance, of adaptive antenna system in mobile WiMAX. With 
our proposed scheduling algorithm, we have studied the impact of AAS to different service. The simulation 
shows that the AAS-enabled spatial division multiple access enhances FTP throughput. For VoIP user, the 
proposed scheduling algorithm can improve the link quality in time and thus improve the system 
performance. 
Keywords: AAS, SDMA, scheduling algorithm, mobile WiMAX. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
 
The standards of IEEE 802.16 family[1][2] adopt Adaptive Antenna System (AAS) as an option to 
enhance cell capacity and coverage. The feature of AAS is its ability to reduce interference by steering the 
beam to a specific user. As a result, the Signal-to-Interference-and-Noise Ratio (SINR) could be enhanced. 
Besides, with spatial division multiple access (SDMA), multiple beams can support multiple users at the 
same time, each resource unit in orthogonal frequency division multiple access (OFDMA) can be utilized by 
more than one user.  
Usually SDMA is combined with other multiple access schemes, such as TDMA [3][4]. In [3], the “spatial 
grouping” algorithm is proposed to group users according to their spatial separability. Users in the same 
group are all spatial separable and can be served on the same frequency band at the same time. Different 
groups of users are served in TDMA scheme by proportional fair scheduler. In [4], a multimedia 
SDMA/TDMA scheduling algorithm is proposed. The proposed algorithm consists of packet prioritization 
and packet allocation. Packet prioritization is to minimized packet loss based on Quality of Service (QoS) 
requirement in terms of timeout values. Packet allocation is to maximize the throughput based on spatial 
characteristic.  
  In this paper, the system level performance simulation with AAS-enabled SDMA is presented. 
According to [5] [6], AAS can enhance link quality. In addition to achieve QoS requirements, we suggest 
that users with poor SINR value have priority to be served by beamforming. Therefore, the two-stage 
  
Fig.2. Additional resource unit provided by SDMA 
 
III. TWO-STAGE AAS SCHEDULING ALGORITHM 
 
In this section, the proposed two-stage scheduling algorithm is described. Different from other algorithms 
for SDMA on mobile WiMAX [3][10], the intention of this algorithm is to support poor channel condition 
users and to ensure link quality improvement after beamforming. These can be realized in two stages: 
prioritization and intra-beam interference avoidance.  
In the first stage, the prioritization is based on user’s channel condition and packet’s deadline. All AAS 
users are categorized into groups according to their channel condition, assessed by modulation scheme. 
Higher priority is given to groups with worse channel condition. Users in the same group are prioritized by 
their packet deadlines. The deadline of the packet is defined as  
tdeadline DB Age T= - -         (1) 
where DB denotes delay bound, Age is the time the packet stayed in MAC layer, and Tt is the transmission 
time for this packet in the current frame. For non-real-time service, a “soft delay bound” is used as the delay 
bound [7] and is defined as 
packet sizesoft delay bound
minimum reserved traffic rate
=       (2) 
User with smaller deadline value should have higher priority. However, not all high priority users are 
allowed to be served by beamforming. The beamforming list would be determined in the second stage.  
   The main purpose of the second stage is to avoid intra-beam interference. Assume one beam is dedicated 
for only one user. Users which might cause intra-beam interference to higher priority user are not allowed 
being served by beamforming. In other words, for users which are too close to spatially separable, the beam 
would only be assigned to the user with highest packet priority. Besides, after beam assignment, the channel 
condition of each user is re-exam. If the channel condition of beam-assigned user is not improved, which 
means that even beamforming cannot benefit this user or beamforming cause severer interference to the user, 
then the user would be deleted from the beamforming list and try to serve the user in the regular non AAS 
Power Budget 
BS Tx power 46dBm (40 Watt) 
BS Antenna gain 17 dBi 
BS back off  5 dB 
Thermal Noise Density -173.93 dB/Hz 
MS Noise Figure  9dB 
MS Antenna gain  3 dBi 
Channel Model 
Pathloss model 35.0log(d[m])+31.5, 50m<d<5km 
Shadow fading model Log-normal distribution with standard 
deviation 8dB and 
Gudmundson’s correlation model 
Mobility model MS speed : 30 km/hr  
Probability to change direction : 0.2 
Max. angle for direction update : 45o 
Basic RRM Control 
BS Power contol Max power 
Rate Control  QPSK+CC 1/2, 16-QAM+CC 1/2,  
64-QAM+CC 1/2 
Channel assignment Frequency first 
Scheduling control Early Deadline First (EDF) 
Handoff Hard handoff 
 
The channel fading model is only large scale fading model including pathloss and the shadowing fading 
model. The temporal and spatial correlation of small scale fading is ignored. For 1 km cell radius, 2~11 GHz 
operating frequency band, and non-line-of-sight (NLOS) environment, the C2 scenario for the pathloss 
model, provided by Winner D5.4 document [13], is adopted. The pathloss model is shown as 
 
35.0 log10( [ ]) 31.5Pathloss d m= +       (3) 
 
where [ ]d m denotes the distance in meter. The shadowing effect fading is modeled as log-normal 
distribution with the standard deviation of 8 dB. Besides, the correlation model of successive simulation 
points is Gudmundson’s correlation model [14] and shown as 
( )
ln 2
m
x
dx er
D
-
D =          (4) 
where ρ is the auto-correlation constant between two simulation sample points, Δx is the distance of two 
sample points and is a function of sampling times between them, sampling duration, and user speed. The dcor 
is de-correlation distance and set to 5m in the simulation. 
bytes RTP header, 8 bytes UDP header, and 20 bytes IP header. 
 
V. SIMULATION RESULT 
 
In this section, the performance of MAC throughput, outage probability, unsatisfied rate and packet loss 
rate is evaluated with the implementation of proposed algorithm in AAS-enabled SDMA WiMAX system. 
From Fig. 3, the MAC throughput for FTP service scenario has been improved significantly in both 
reuse-factor 1 and 3. This is because more resource units are available. The cross point occurs because it is 
lack of multiuser diversity when cell loading is low and the extra overhead required by implementing AAS..  
 
Fi g. 3 MAC throughput for FTP service with/without SDMA 
As for the outage probability, the percentage of users fail to achieve QPSK, is shown in Fig.4. Due to long 
delay margin of non-real-time services, the outage probability of FTP service is quite low (less than 0.4%) in 
both reuse factor 1 and 3 cases. For the unsatisfied rate shown in Fig. 5, the percentage of packets exceed the 
soft delay bound is improved by more than 40% due to the AAS-enabled SDMA can create  more available 
resource units. 
 
 
Fig. 4 Outage probability for FTP service with/without SDMA 
Reuse factor 3 Reuse factor 1 
 
VI. CONCLUSION 
 
In this paper, the performance of AAS-enabled SDMA is investigated. Basically, regardless of interference 
levels, the FTP services, with longer delay margin, will have a low outage probability and the throughput 
can be improved by additional radio resources created by SDMA technique. For VoIP services, the capacity 
will be improved only when the environment is under high interference. In that scenario, the proposed 
two-stage interference avoidance scheduling algorithm and interference suppression contributed by 
AAS-enabled SDMA can effectively reduce the interference and enhance poor users in time. As a result, 
more VoIP users can be supported.  
 
REFERENCE 
[1] IEEE, "IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks Part 16: Air Interface for Fixed 
Broadband Wireless Access Systems", IEEE Std 802.16-2004  
[2] IEEE, "IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area networks Part 16: Air Interface for Fixed and 
Mobile Broadband Wireless Access Systems Amendment 2: Physical and Medium Access Control 
Layers for Combined Fixed and Mobile Operation in Licensed Bands and Corrigendum 1",IEEE Std 
802.16e-2005 and IEEE Std 802.16-2004/Cor 1-2005  
[3] R. Pabst, J. Ellenbeck, M. Schinnenburg, C. Hoymann, "System Level Performance of Cellular WiMAX 
IEEE 802.16 with SDMA-enhanced Medium Access," IEEE WCNC, Hong Kong, March 2007.  
[4] H. Yin, H. Liu, "Performance of space-division multiple-access (SDMA) with scheduling," IEEE Trans. 
on Wireless Com., Vol. 1, pp.611-618, Oct. 2002. 
[5] B. Allen and M. Ghavami, “Adaptive Array Systems”. 
[6] Y. Li, Kenyon, D, "An examination of the processing complexity of an adaptive antenna system (AAS) 
for WiMAX", DSPenabledRadio, Sept. 2005. 
[7] Chan-Juan Chian, “QoS-Based Opportunistic Scheduling Algorithm for Mixed-traffic environment”, 
master thesis, EE of NCTU, Taiwan. 
[8] P. Svedman, L.J. Cimini, M. Bengtsson, S.K. Wilson, B. Ottersten, "Exploiting Temporal Channel 
Correlation in Opportunistic SD-OFDMA", IEEE ICC, Volume 12, pp.5307-5312, June 2006. 
[9] 3GPP, "3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network; 
Spatial channel model for Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) simulations (Release 6)", TR 25.996 
V6.1.0, 2003-09. 
[10] H. Holma; A. Toskala,"WCDMA for UMTS – Radio Access For Third Generation Mobile 
Communication", John Wiley & Sons , 2000, pp.157~159. 
[11] Winner, "Final Report on Link Level and System Level Channel Models", IST-2003-507581 WINNER 
D5.4 v. 1.4, Nov. 18th, 2005. 
[12] M. Gudmundson, "Correlation model for shadow fading in mobile radio systems", Electronic Letters, 
Vol. 27, pp.2145-2146,November 1991. 
[13] "cdma2000 Evaluation Methodology Revision 0", 3GPP2 C.R1002-0 Version 1.0, December 10, 2004 
[14] "3G & The Future of Wireless", PDAs & Cell Phones, Vol.8 Issue 5,Page(s) 48-51, May 2002 
[15] Winner, “Intermediate requirements per scenario”, IST-2003-507581 WINNER D1.2, 02/03/2005. 
 
