 II
 
目錄 
 
報告內容 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 1 
摘要 ------------------------------------------------------------- 1 
一、前言及文獻探討  ------------------------------------------------------------- 3 
二、研究方法  ------------------------------------------------------------- 4 
三、結果與討論  ------------------------------------------------------------- 8 
四、研究結論  ------------------------------------------------------------- 14 
參考文獻 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 15 
計畫成果自評 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 18 
    
 
 
 
 2 
 
英文摘要 —This novel hydrogel highly regulates general bioadhesive foulants through the adsorption 
of plasma proteins, the adhesion of human platelets and cells, and the attachment of bacteria. In this 
investigation, non-ionic hydrogels of polyNIPAAm, zwitterionic hydrogels of polySBMA, and three 
co-polymeric hydrogels of NIPAAm and SBMA (poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA)) were prepared. The 
co-polymeric hydrogels exhibited controllable temperature-dependent swelling behaviors and showed 
stimuli-responsive phase characteristics in the presence of salts. The interactions of these hydrogels 
with biomolecules and microorganisms were demonstrated by protein adsorption, cell adhesion, and 
bacterial attachment, which allowed us to evaluate their bioadhesive properties. An enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay (ELISA) with monoclonal antibodies was used to measure different plasma 
protein adsorptions on the prepared hydrogel surfaces. At a physiological temperature, the high content 
of the non-ionic polyNIPAAm in poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) hydrogel exhibits a high protein 
adsorption due to the interfacial exposure of polyNIPAAm-rich hydrophobic domains. A relatively 
high content of polySBMA in poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) hydrogel exhibits reduced amounts of protein 
adsorption due to the interfacial hydration of polySBMA-rich hydrophilic segments. The attachment of 
platelets and the spreading of cells were only observed on polyNIPAAm-rich hydrogel surfaces. 
Interestingly, the incorporation of zwitterionic SBMA units into the polyNIPAAm gels was found to 
accelerate the hydration of the cell-cultured surfaces and resulted in more rapid cell detachment. Such 
copolymer gel surface was shown to be potentially useful for triggered cell detachment. In addition, 
the interactions of hydrogels with bacteria were also evaluated. The polySBMA-rich hydrogels 
exhibited evident antimicrobial properties when they were incubated with Gram-positive bacteria (S. 
epidermidis) and Gram-negative bacteria (E. coli). This work shows that the bioadhesive properties of 
poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) hydrogels can be effectively controlled via regulated non-ionic and 
zwitterionic molar mass ratios. The tunable-bioadhesive behavior of temperature-sensitive 
poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) makes this biocompatible hydrogel appropriate for biomedical applications. 
Keywords: biocompatible hydrogel, stimuli-responsive, protein adsorption, cell detachment, 
intermolecular interactions, antimicrobial properties 
 4 
 
cell adhesion/detachment culturing and 
environmentally friendly antimicrobial 
coatings.25 In this work, we develop intelligent 
chemical hydrogels of poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) 
copolymer networks having both 
tunable-bioadhesive and thermo-responsive 
functions. Herein, for the first time, we 
demonstrate bioadhesive studies for the 
interactions of non-ionic-zwitterionic hydrogel 
interfaces with biomolecules and 
microorganisms. We prepared non-ionic 
hydrogels of polyNIPAAm, zwitterionic 
hydrogels of polySBMA, and three 
non-ionic-zwitterionic hydrogels of 
poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) having different 
monomer ratios of SBMA and NIPAAm. The 
effect of temperature on the swelling behavior 
and hydrophilic properties of these hydrogels in 
aqueous solutions were examined in detail. This 
study also demonstrates the adsorption of plasma 
proteins and platelets onto these hydrogel 
surfaces from human blood plasma, and shows 
the bioadhesive activity of the prepared 
hydrogels by the tests of cell adhesion, cell 
detachment, and bacterial attachment. This work 
is mainly aimed at addressing two important 
issues of poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) hydrogels in 
five various non-ionic-zwitterionic compositions; 
i.e., (i) in situ measurement of the reversible 
swollen characteristics of temperature sensitive 
co-polymeric hydrogels in an aqueous solution 
and in the presence of salt ions; and (ii) in vitro 
evaluation of the adsorption of plasma proteins, 
the adhesion of human platelets and cells, and 
the attachment of bacteria onto the co-polymeric 
hydrogel surfaces at the physiological 
temperature. 
 
二、研究方法    
Materials. 
[2-(Methacryloyloxy)ethyl]dimethyl(3-sulfoprop
yl)-ammonium hydroxide (sulfobetaine 
methacrylate, SBMA) macromonomer was 
purchased from Monomer-Polymer & Dajac 
Laboratories, Inc. in United States. 
N-Isopropylacrylamide (NIPAAm) from 
Sigma-Aldrich was re-crystallized with hexane. 
Ammonium persulfate (APS), 
N,N,N,N-tetraethylmethylenediamine (TEMED), 
N,N-methylenebisacrylamide (MBAA) and 
Diiodomethane were purchased from 
Sigma-Aldrich. Deionized water (DI water) used 
in experiments was purified using a Millipore 
water purification system with a minimum 
resistivity of 18.0 M m.  
Preparation of Poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) 
Hydrogels. A total of 20 wt% of different mass 
ratios of SBMA and NIPAAm (Table 1) were 
dissolved in an aqueous solution of 1.6 wt% 
MBAA, and nitrogen was bubbled to remove 
residual oxygen. The copolymerization of 
poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) networks was 
initiated using 0.2 wt% of APS and was 
cross-linked using 0.2 wt% of TEMED. The 
reaction was carried out between a pair of glass 
substrates and was separated with a silicone 
rubber spacer with a thickness of 0.2 mm at 25 
C for 5 h. After polymerization, the gel was 
immersed in a large amount of water for 48 h, 
and the water was changed every 6 h to remove 
the chemical residue. Poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) 
chemical hydrogels were punched (10 mm 
biopsy punch, Acuderm Inc., FL) into disks with 
a diameter of 10.0 mm and a thickness of 0.2 
mm stored in DI water before use. In addition, 
the preparation of poly(SBMA-co-NIPAAm) 
copolymers without chemical cross-linking was 
described in our previous publication.25 All 
 6 
 
chromatography (GPC), using 1 column of 
Viscogel TM GMPWXL K0105 (the range of 
molecular weight was from 500 Da to 800 kDa) 
connected to a model Waters 2414 refractive 
index detector at a flow rate of 1.0 mL/min and a 
column temperature of 23 oC. The eluent was an 
aqueous solution composed of 0.1 M NaCl at pH 
7.4. Poly(ethylene oxide) (PEO) standards from 
Polymer Standard Service, Inc. (Warwick, USA) 
were used for calibration.  
Plasma Protein Adsorption. The adsorption of 
human plasma solutions of γ-globulin, fibrinogen, 
and human serum albumin (HSA) on the 
hydrogel disks was evaluated using the 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) 
method according to the standard protocol as 
summarized below. First, the hydrogel disks with 
a surface area of 0.785 cm2 were placed in 
individual wells of a 24-well tissue culture plate 
and each hydrogel disk was equilibrated with 
1000 L of PBS for 180 min at 37 oC. Then, the 
hydrogel disks were soaked in 1000 L of 100% 
Platelet Poor Plasma (PPP) solution. After 180 
min of incubation at 37 oC, the hydrogel disks 
were rinsed five times with 1000 L PBS and 
then incubated in bovine serum albumin (BSA, 
purchased from Aldrich) for 90 min at 37 °C to 
block the surface areas unoccupied by proteins. 
The hydrogel disks were rinsed with PBS five 
more times before being transferred to a new 
plate and incubated in 1000 L PBS solution. 
The hydrogel disks were incubated with a 
primary monoclonal antibody that reacted with 
the human plasma protein (i.e., HSA or Fg) for 
90 min at 37 °C and were then blocked with 10 
mg/mL BSA in PBS solution for 24 hr at 37 °C. 
The hydrogel disks were subsequently incubated 
with the secondary monoclonal antibody, 
horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-conjugated 
immunoglobulins, for 60 min at 37 °C. The 
primary antibody was not used and only the 
secondary antibody (goat F(ab)2 anti-human 
immunoglobulin peroxidase conjugate antibody) 
treatment was performed for the assay of human 
-globulin adsorbed on the hydrogel disks from 
the PPP for 90 min at 37 °C. The hydrogel disks 
were rinsed five times with 1000 L PBS and 
transferred into clean wells, followed by the 
addition of 500 L PBS containing 1 mg/mL 
3,3,5,5-tetramethylbenzidine as a chromogen, 
0.05 wt% Tween 20, and 0.05 wt% hydrogen 
peroxide. The enzyme-induced color reaction 
was controlled for approximately 5 min for Fg 
and HSA and 15 min for -globulin, respectively. 
After incubation at 37 oC, the reaction was 
stopped by adding 500 L (or 1000 L) 1 
mmol/mL H2SO4 to the solution in each well.  
Finally, the absorbance of light at 450 nm was 
determined using a microplate reader. Protein 
adsorption on the hydrogel disks was normalized 
with respect to that on the polyNIPAAm 
hydrogel disk as a reference. The ELISA 
measurement was repeated using six independent 
disks (n = 6 in total) for each hydrogel substrate 
and the average result was reported. 
Blood Platelet Adhesion. The hydrogel disks of 
0.785 cm2 surface area were placed in individual 
wells of a 24-well tissue culture plate and each 
well was equilibrated with 1000 L of phosphate 
buffered solution (PBS) for 180 min at 37 oC. 
Blood was obtained from a healthy human 
volunteer. Platelet rich plasma (PRP) containing 
about 1105 blood cells/mL was prepared by 
centrifugation of the blood at 20 Hz (1200 rpm) 
for 10 min. The platelet concentration was 
determined by a microscopy (NIKON TS 100F). 
A 1000 l of the platelet suspension plasma was 
placed on the hydrogel surface in each well of 
 8 
 
h and a final E. coli concentration of 106 cells/ml 
for 12 h. The hydrogel disks were incubated with 
75 wt % ethanol for 1 h at 25 oC and washed by 
PBS 3 times in a 24-well plate. One mL of 
bacteria suspension was added to each well. The 
bacteria were then incubated with the samples 
for 24 h at 37 oC. The bacterial solution was 
removed after 24 h and each sample was then 
washed with PBS 3 times at 37 oC to remove the 
attached bacteria. Bacteria adhering to the 
sample surfaces were stained with 200 l 
Live/Dead BacLightTM for 10 min. After 
washing with PBS 3 times, samples with stained 
bacteria were observed with a CCD camera 
mounted on Olympus BX51 with a 10X 
objective lens. During observation, we used 
epifluorescent illumination through a blue 
excitation fluorescence filter at the excitation 
range 450-490 nm. 
 
三、結果與討論    
In this present work, non-ionic hydrogels of 
polyNIPAAm (S#0), zwitterionic hydrogels of 
polySBMA (S#100), and three co-polymeric 
hydrogels of poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) (S#20, 
S#50, and S#70) were prepared from various 
monomer compositions between NIPAAm and 
SBMA, as shown in Scheme 1(a). To achieve 
similar cross-linking qualities with respect to 
mechanical strength and ductility, all hydrogels 
were prepared with the same quantity of 1.6 wt% 
cross-linker MBAA in total reaction 
compositions based on the previous study.26 The 
corresponding chemical composition of the 
poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) hydrogels is shown in 
Table 1. The increasing amount of SBMA 
monomers in the reaction solution increased the 
molar mass ratio of polySBMA in the prepared 
hydrogel. The molar ratio of polySBMA in the 
prepared un-cross-linked gels was close to the 
molar ratio of polySBMA in the cross-linked 
gels, indicating the similar reactivity of SBMA 
and NIPAAm monomers during the 
polymerization. To determine the 
soluble–insoluble phase transition at LCST of 
poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) hydrogels without 
cross-linking, the optical absorbance of dilute 
un-cross-linked gel solution was measured using 
a UV-visible spectrophotometer with precise 
temperature control from 25 oC to 70 oC.    
  
Characterizations of 
Temperature-responsive 
Poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) Hydrogels. The 
Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopic (FT-IR) 
measurement was used to characterize the 
chemical composition of the 
poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) hydrogel, and its 
typical spectrum is shown in Figure 1. The 
presence of the polySBMA segments could be 
ascertained from the ester carbonyl groups and 
the sulfonate groups observed from the bands of 
the –SO3 stretch at 1033 cm−1 and O–C=O 
stretch at 1727 cm−1, respectively. The intensity 
of –SO3 at 1033 cm−1 and O–C=O adsorption at 
1727 cm−1 clearly increased as the starting 
SBMA concentration in the reaction solution 
increased from 20 to 100 wt%. It should be noted 
that the intensity ratio of 1033 cm-1 and 1727 
cm-1 for S#20, S#50, S#70, and S#100 keeps 
almost similar due to the characteristic peaks 
contributed form the same polySBMA segments.  
Swelling behaviors at different temperatures 
and ionic strengths, as shown in Figure 2, 
illustrate the phase behaviors of the 
poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) hydrogels. In Figure 
2(a), the equilibrated swelling ratios of the 
 10 
 
NIPAAm segments of non-ionic isopropyl 
groups and inter and/or intramolecular 
electrostatic interactions by SBMA segments of 
zwitterionic sulfobetaine groups. The swelling 
ratios of co-polymeric gels containing 
polySBMA at 31 mol% (S#50) were found to be 
basically independent of the ionic strength over a 
wide range of concentrations of NaCl from 0.1 to 
2.5 M at 37 oC. This finding is attributed to the 
balance between swelling and hydrating 
behaviors with water molecules due to the 
dehydration caused by the salting out effect 
around isopropyl groups and the hydrating effect 
of antipolyelectrolyte around zwitterionic 
moieties. Interestingly, based on our previous 
study, there appears to be both a UCST (15 oC) 
and an LCST (41 oC) of a doubly 
thermoresponsive poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) 
copolymer with a similar composition from the 
combination of 29 mol% polySBMA and 71 
mol% polyNIPAAm in the same copolymer 
chain.25 For co-polymeric gels containing 
polySBMA, less than 31 mol%, 
poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) hydrogels de-swelled 
in the presence of salt ions and the swelling ratio 
decreased with ionic strength. This was similar 
to the case of the polyNIPAAm gels. However, 
the swelling ratio of co-polymeric gel containing 
polySBMA at 9 mol% (S#20) was found to be 
more significant change in low concentration of 
NaCl at 0.1 M. This might be due to the 
hydrating effect of antipolyelectrolyte around 
zwitterionic moieties is higher than the 
dehydration effect of water molecules around 
isopropyl groups in such low ionic strength. For 
co-polymeric gels in high concentration of NaCl 
at 2.5 M, an increase in the molar mass of 
polySBMA led to an obvious increase in the 
swelling ratios of poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) 
hydrogels, which was attributed to the 
salt-induced hydration of water molecules 
around the zwitterionic sulfobetaine groups. 
Interestingly, the swelling ratio of co-polymeric 
gel containing polySBMA at 43 mol% (S#70) in 
such high ionic strength is higher than that the 
case of the polySBMA gels. This might be due to 
that the dehydration of water molecules from 
associated polyNIPAAm domains enhances the 
more hydrating effect of non-associated 
polySBMA segments. Such co-polymeric 
hydrogels were shown to have potential 
stimuli-responsive properties exhibiting not only 
temperature dependent but also ionic strength 
sensitive.  
   
Plasma Protein Adsorption and Blood 
Platelet Adhesion on Poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) 
Hydrogels. The adhesion of platelets from 
human blood was correlated with the adsorption 
of plasma proteins on surfaces, and particularly 
fibrinogen adsorption.27, 28 In this work, 
adsorption of human plasma proteins in blood 
plasma solutions onto co-polymeric gel surfaces 
was measured using ELISA at 37 oC (the 
temperature of the human body). Three of the 
major plasma proteins, -globulin, human 
fibrinogen, and HSA, were selected for testing in 
this study. ELISA results for the relative protein 
adsorption from PPP solutions on different gel 
surfaces are shown in Figure 3. It was found that 
polySBMA gels are highly resistant to 
non-specific adsorption for major plasma 
proteins at 37 oC, while hydrophobic 
polyNIPAAm gels show high protein adsorption. 
We observed significant decreases in the 
adsorption of plasma proteins on co-polymeric 
hydrogel surfaces of S#20, S#50, and S#70 as 
compared to that on the surfaces of 
 12 
 
reduced relative plasma protein adsorption of 
10% on gel surfaces is comparable to a level of 
10 ng/cm2. These results also confirmed the 
previous hypothesis that even a small quantity of 
proteins adsorbed on the surface can lead to the 
adhesion and activation of platelets from human 
blood. Measurements of both the plasma protein 
adsorption and blood platelet adhesion in vitro 
demonstrated for the first time that co-polymeric 
hydrogels of poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) with 
tunable molar mass of zwitterionic SBMA can be 
used to achieve high compatibility with human 
blood. 
  
Cell Adhesion and Growth. Human fibroblasts 
(HS-68) were cultured on hydrogel surfaces in 
24-well tissue culture polystyrene (TCPS) plates 
at 37 oC for 3 days, and the samples were then 
observed under a microscope equipped with a 
digital camera (NIKON CCD) using a 10X 
objective lens. The images are shown in Figure 5 
at a magnification of 100X. HS-68 cell adhesion 
and growth on the gel surfaces was compared 
with a flat TCPS surface. For the bare TCPS 
plate, HS-68 cells adhered and spread over the 
TCPS surface into a confluent-like layer. The 
cell image on the gel surface of polyNIPAAm 
(S#0) is not shown in Figure 5 due to opaque 
S#0 hydrogels, which did not allow us to capture 
a cell image. Thus, the number of cells on 
polyNIPAAm gel surface was determined using 
an MTT test. In Figure 5, there appeared to be a 
small number of cells that adhered to gel 
surfaces of S#20 containing polySBMA at 9 
mol%. Poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) hydrogel 
surfaces (S#50 and S#70) containing polySBMA 
above 31 mol% showed no obvious adhesion of 
cells, which was correlated with its ability to 
highly resist non-specific protein adsorption and 
platelet adhesion from blood plasma. No cells 
were found on the zwitterionic polySBMA gel 
surfaces.  This, along with results from a 
previous study6, 10, 14, supports the hypothesis 
that zwitterionic surfaces with an overall charge 
neutrality formed from ion pairings between the 
ammonium cation and the sulfo-anion can 
present non-fouling characteristics.  The results 
show that the increase of SBMA molar mass in 
poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) hydrogels could 
inhibit cell adhesion on gel surfaces. Figure 6 
shows changes from days 1 to 8 in the number of 
live HS-68 cells grown on the TCPS plate and on 
5 gel surfaces at 37 oC in a long-term culture, 
which were determined by an MTT test. Cell 
growth on the poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) gel 
surfaces (S#20, S#50, and S#70) was suppressed 
compared with that on the TCPS plate and on 
polyNIPAAm gel surfaces. No cell growth can 
be observed on the co-polymeric gels as an 
SBMA molar ratio above 43 mol%, even at a 
culture time of up to 8 days.  
 
Thermal Stimulus of Cell Detachment. Human 
fibroblasts (HT-1080) carrying the enhanced 
green fluorescent protein (EGFP) was used in 
this work to observe thermal stimulus of cell 
detachment from the prepared hydrogels. 
HT-1080 cells were cultured on hydrogel 
surfaces in 24-well TCPS plates at 37oC for 3 
days, and the samples were then observed under 
the temperature transition as the cultured 
temperature decreased from 37 oC to the 
incubated temperature of 4 oC and 25 oC for a 
period of 120 min, respectively. In Figure 7, 
HT-1080 cell detachment was observed in the 
samples of S#0, S#20, and S#50 as the 
temperature decreased to 25 oC, which is below 
the LCST of prepared samples. We observed that 
 14 
 
network-like structure. Significant qualitative 
decreases in the adhesion of both Gram-positive 
and Gram-negative bacteria were observed on 
poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) and polySBMA 
hydrogels in comparison to TCPS and 
polyNIPAAm gels. The results showed that the 
reduced protein adsorption levels lead to a lower 
adhesion of bacteria or accumulation of biofilm 
on these hydrogel surfaces as indicated in Figure 
3. In this study, the results support the hypothesis 
that the adhesion of S. epidermidis and E. coli 
might be correlated with the adsorption of 
proteins on gel surfaces. Thus, the molar mass of 
zwitterionic SBMA in poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) 
hydrogels could provide tunable control of 
bacterial attachment and biofilm formation on a 
biomaterial surface. As a result, this study shows 
for the first time that the right combination of 
non-ionic polyNIPAAm and zwitterionic 
polySBMA can produce an excellent smart 
hydrogel system for achieving tunable 
bioadhesive characteristics. The bioadhesive 
characteristics can be used for a wide range of 
biofoulant species including proteins, cells and 
bacteria while maintaining controllable 
thermoresponsive functions. 
 
四、研究結論  
In this study, a controllable-thermoresponsive 
and tunable-bioadhesive hydrogel was obtained 
in the cross-linked chemical networks with a 
regulated ratio of non-ionic polyNIPAAm and 
zwitterionic polySBMA. We found that the 
balance of hydrophobic or electrostatic intra and 
intermolecular interactions between polymer 
segments in poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) 
hydrogels was dominated by the portion of 
polyNIPAAm or polySBMA.  The 
polyNIPAAm or polySBMA determine 
stimuli-responsive swelling characteristics, 
which depend strongly on the temperature and 
ionic strength. It is worth emphasizing that the 
appropriate control of non-ionic and 
zwitterionic molar mass ratios leads to 
poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) hydrogels containing 
polySBMA at 31 mol% that exhibit a balanced 
swelling behavior in a steady swollen gel state, 
which is independent of the ionic strength over a 
wide range of concentrations of NaCl from 0.1 
to 2.5 M at the physiological temperature. The 
ELISA test and contact angle measurements 
revealed that the hydrating effects on the gel 
surface is associated with the non-fouling 
characteristics for resisting non-specific protein 
adsorption. The results showed that 
co-polymeric hydrogels containing even a low 
polySBMA content of approximately 31 mol% 
can be obtained with extremely low plasma 
protein adsorption and high anticoagulant 
activity from human blood plasma. Furthermore, 
it was found that poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) 
hydrogels can be used to control the attachment 
or detachment of cells on the surfaces using the 
switchable temperatures above or below the 
LCST of co-polymeric gels. The excellent 
performance of poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) and 
polySBMA hydrogels in dramatically reducing 
the accumulation of both S. epidermidis and E. 
coli is due to their ability to resist non-specific 
protein adsorption and bacterial adhesion. This 
study suggests that the co-polymeric hydrogel 
from non-ionic polyNIPAAm incorporating 
zwitterionic polySBMA is a potential 
stimuli-responsive biomaterial providing a 
tunable bioadhesive function for use in a wide 
range of general biomedical applications. 
 
 16 
 
Ratner, B. D.; Horbett, T. A. Langmuir 2003, 
19, 1692-1699. 
28. Kwak, D.; Wu, Y. G.; Horbett, T. A. J. 
Biomed. Mater. Res. Part A 2005, 74A, 
69-83. 
29. Costerton, J. W.; Cheng, K. J.; Geesey, G. G.; 
Ladd, T. I.; Nickel, J. C.; Dasgupta, M. Annu. 
Rev. Microbiol. 1987, 41, 435-464.  
30. Chapman, R. G.; Ostuni, E.; Liang, M. N.; 
Meluleni, G.; Kim, E.; Yan, L.; Pier, G.; 
Warren, H. S.; Whitesides, G. M. Langmuir 
2001, 17, 1225-1233. 
 
Scheme 1. (a) Chemical structure of the 
polyNIPAAm, poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA), and 
polySBMA hydrogels; (b) Simplified molecular 
model of the temperature dependence of the 
poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) hydrogels. 
 
Figure 1. FT-IR spectra of the polyNIPAAm gel 
(S#0), the poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) gels (S#20, 
S#50, and S#70), and the polySBMA gel 
(S#100). 
 
 
Figure 2. Swelling ratios of the polyNIPAAm 
gel (S#0), the poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) gels 
(S#20, S#50, and S#70), and the polySBMA gel 
(S#100) under the following conditions: (a) in 
H2O at 4 oC, 25 oC, and 37 oC; and (b) in 0.0, 0.1, 
1.0, and 2.5 M NaCl solution at 37 oC.  
 
 18 
 
0
20
40
60
80
100
25oC4oC
C
el
l a
ta
ch
m
en
t (
%
)
S#0
 0 min
 30 min
 60 min
 120 min
25oC4oC
S#20
25oC4oC
S#50  
Figure 8. Normalized cell attachment of 
HT-1080 on the surfaces of the polyNIPAAm gel 
(S#0) and the poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) gels 
(S#20 and S#50) with incubated temperature of 4 
oC and 25 oC at 0 min, 30 min, 60 min, and 120 
min, respectively. The standard deviation for all 
data is below 5% (n=6). 
 
Figure 9. Fluorescence microscopic images of S. 
epidermidis attachment on the surfaces of the 
TCPS, the polyNIPAAm gel (S#0), the 
poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) gels (S#20, S#50, and 
S#70), and the polySBMA gel (S#100) after 24 
h.  
 
Figure 10. Fluorescence microscopic images of 
E. coli attachment on the surfaces of the TCPS, 
the polyNIPAAm gel (S#0), the 
poly(NIPAAm-co-SBMA) gels (S#20, S#50, and 
S#70), and the polySBMA gel (S#100) after 24 
h. 
 
計畫成果自評 
 
本專題研究計畫，針對研究非離子性及雙離
子性分子鏈結構體於人體血液接觸界面
之相容性問題並探討其於生醫材料方面
之應用研究內容與原計畫相符，達成預期目
標。研究成果之學術與應用價值皆高，目前已
進行研究成果整理與歸納，並已刊登於 ACS 
Biomacromolecules 2010, 11, 1101–1110，其
高影響指數為>4.0 之學術期刊。 
 
 2
※報告內容請包括下列各項，並以 A4 紙書寫。 
一、 參加會議經過 
 
進行口頭報告的議程: 
 
 
 
 4
 
無研發成果推廣資料 
研討會論文 7 1 100% 
1. Y. Chang*, R. C. 
Ruaan, W. Y. Chen (2009) 
“The control of various 
zwitterionic structures 
of polymer chains on the 
molecular interaction 
mechanism between their 
material interface and 
biomacromolecules from 
biological system＂, 
56th Taiwan Institute of
Chemical Engineers 
Annual Conference, 
Taichung, Taiwan, 
Nov.27-28. [Invited 
Speaker, First talk in 
(B)生醫與高分子材料]  
2.Y. J. Shih, Y. 
Chang*(2009) “Surface 
grafting control of 
PEGylated 
poly(vinylidene 
fluoride) antifouling 
membrane via 
surface-initiated 
radical graft 
copolymerization＂, 
56th Taiwan Institute of 
Chemical Engineers 
Annual Conference, 
Taipei, Taiwan, 
Nov.27-28. 
3.Y. Chang*, Y. Wetra, Y. 
J. Shih (2010) 
“Solution Phase 
Behavior of Blood 
Compatible Zwitterionic 
Copolymers Containing
Nonionic 
Poly(N-isopropyl 
acrylamide)＂, 
Proceeding of the 32th 
ROC Polymer Symposium, 
Kaoshiung, Taiwan, Jan. 
22-23. [Invited Speaker]
4.Y. J. Shih, C. Y. Ko, Y. 
Chang* (2010) “Surface 
grafting control of 
PEGylated 
poly(vinylidene 
fluoride) antifouling 
membrane via 
f i iti t d
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
Y. Chang*, Y. Wetra, Y. 
J. Shih (2010) 
“Stimuli-Responsive 
and Tunable-Bioadhesive 
Hydrogels of Nonionic 
Poly(N-isopropyl 
acrylamide) Containing 
Zwitterionic 
Polysulfobetaine＂, 
Society For Biomaterials 
2010 Annual Meeting & 
Exposition, Seattle, 
Washington, USA, April. 
21-24. 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 1 0 100% 
Antibiofouling 
Nonionic-Zwitterionic 
Copolymer 專利 
已獲得件數 0 0 100% 
件 
 
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次
 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
(1) 學術成就: 
此專題研究成果發表於 2篇 biomacromolecules 期刊中，學術影響指數為 4.146，屬於高
品質期刊。(Biomacromolecules, 11, 1101-1110;Biomacromolecules, 10, 2092-2100.)
 
(2) 技術創新: 
此專題研究之技術創新在於新材料之分子設計，本研究中提出使用非離子與雙離子材料的
分子配對，設計出新一代的智慧型生醫材料，具有溫感性與離子強度感應性，並且可依需
求調控蛋白質吸附、細胞貼附與細菌沾黏的程度，是目前文獻研究第一次報導的生醫材料
設計方式，具高度技術創新價值，目前已有國際創投公司積極詢問。 
 
(3) 社會影響: 
國內在生醫材料發展的原創性方面，比歐美國家來得少，大部分的研究屬於延續型工作，
如此，無法帶動國家生醫產業的深根與技術升級。此專題研究所開發的新式材料設計與概
念，未來有機會成為有潛力的新一代智慧型生醫材料，其用途在生物科技方面有很大的發
展空間，對於國家生技產業的發展將有可預期的貢獻。 
 
 
 
