 
1 INTRODUCTION 
 Because of the coming maturity of wireless network and the popularization of mobile computing device, 
number of location-based services is growing. By using location-based services, people are able to retrieve 
plenty of living information easily through wireless networks. And accurate location of mobile device is the 
necessary information to the services.  
 Most existing localization techniques of wireless networks are based on the measurements of radio signal 
transmitted between access points (APs) and mobile nodes. These measurements include time of arrival (TOA) 
[1], time difference of arrival (TDOA) [2], angle of arrival (AOA) [3] and received signal strength (RSS). In 
this paper, RSS is used due to two characteristics. One of the characteristic is RSS allow the localization 
system reuse the existing communication infrastructure and reduce the cost of additional infrastructure. 
Another is the characteristic of non-line of sight (NLOS) [4]. Because wireless networks usually build in 
urban area and indoor environment, transmitted signal might pass through obstacles. Therefore, RSS is more 
suitable in the wireless networks.  
 In RSS-based localization systems, some APs were usually placed at known locations and a mobile node 
with no location information. Localization system calculates the position of mobile node based on a prior 
measured RSS map which was built by measured the RSS between APs and mobile node.  
 Obtain accurate positions of mobile devices in wireless networks could be difficult in indoor 
environment. Obstacles might attenuate the RSS between AP and mobile node and cause corrupted RSS when 
a mobile node requires location information. Another reason made localization inaccuracy is the malicious 
attacks. Since the location-based service has become more popular, the higher chance it will be the target of 
malicious attacks [6]. Due to the natural of flexibility and openness in wireless networks, an adversary can 
easily manipulate the RSS to affect the result and cause huge shift of location. For these reasons, many secure 
and robust localization approaches are developed by researchers to solve these problems. Two strategies are 
commonly used in secure and robust localization approaches, eliminate corrupted RSS and increase the ability 
to tolerate corrupted RSS. Each strategy has advantage and disadvantage. Eliminate corrupted RSS can 
achieve high accuracy if the corrupted RSS has been found and eliminated. Otherwise, it will result in huge 
shift of location. Increase tolerance of approach can not completely remove the shift cause by corrupted RSS. 
But the approach is able to reduce the error in most time.  
 In this paper, we introduce an attack-resistant algorithm based on RSS and using probability inclusive 
disjunction model. The main ideal of proposed algorithm is allow corrupted RSS measurements to play a less 
significant role in the process of localization. The experiments compared three approaches, including the 
Bayesian, cluster-base [7], median-based [6] and sensor selection [8] methods. And the results shows that the 
proposed algorithm outperformed the Bayesian, cluster-base, median-based and sensor selection methods in 
reducing the 50-th and 67-th percentile localization error by 47.55-50.89%, 47.62-48.11%, 13.73-30.84%, and 
20.55- 27.63%, respectively.  
2 RELATED WORK 
 Fingerprinting is a generally used approach for localization. This approach is based on received signal 
strength 2 to build a radio map around an area, such as RADAR [9]. Mobile devices can be located by 
comparing the RSS on devices with the radio map. Fingerprinting do not require the location of signal sources 
and do not need to calculate the propagation loss. And the radio map can be built by reusing the existing 
infrastructure, such as IEEE 802.11 and GSM networks. However, the propagated radio feature is susceptible 
to non-cryptographic attacks. For instance, Jadliwala et al. investigate the location error bounds in the 
presence of cheating base stations [10]. Chen et al. analyses the security of positioning algorithms to various 
conditions, therefore containing all possible corruptions case in a three APs condition. The model include all 
possible partial corruptions, thus, it is not necessary to identify the corrupted measurement and provides a 
tolerance of all possible attack conditions. The probability of X∨  can be generated through the rules of 
probability for the union of random events. For two random events, the probability is P(A∨B) = P(A)+ 
P(B)−P(A∧B). Specifically, the probability P( X∨ )can be computed based on a recursion as follows: 
1 1
1 1 1
( | ) ( | ) ( | ) ([ | ] [ | ])
m m m
n n m n mn n n
P x L P x L P x L P x L x L
− −
= = =
∨ = ∨ + − ∨ ∧  2, ,m N=    (3) 
Assuming all RSS are independent to each other, equation 3 requires only the probability of each RSS 
measurement, P( nx |L). If P( nx |L) is not large, Eq. 3 can be approximated by the sum of the individual 
probabilities to reduce computation.  
3.3 M Order Inclusive Disjunction Model (M-IDM) 
 IDM is able to reduce the influences of corrupted RSS measurements. However, this model has a 
disadvantage. The model effectively averages the probability of each RSS measurement to reduce errors, but 
also sacrifices some sensitivity to clean RSS measurements. To compensate the sensitivity, we can combine 
the use of “and” and “or” operators. Consider a data set with N RSS measurements, if there are M corrupted 
measurements (M < N). Then we should use “and” operator to combine the remaining (N − M) clean 
measurements instead of “or” operator. Assume there is no knowledge about M, the number of clean 
measurements may be any number below N. This can be modeled by using “or” operator. All the conjunctions 
of (N −M) features can be combined as follow: 
1 2
1 2
( )
N M
N M
M n n nn n n
x x x
−
−
∨ = ∨ ∧ ∧ ∧X

   (4) 
where the “or” operator ∨  is taken over all possible combinations of N different values (1,2,...,N) taken 
(N−M) at a time, giving a total of NCN M− combinations. where the subscript indicates the number of corrupted 
measurements. The first combination corresponds to the equation 1. The most suitable condition to first 
combination is in attack-free scenario. The third combination represents the inclusive disjunction model. The 
inclusive disjunction model is used when the corrupted measurements M equal to N − 1. If there is one 
corrupted measurement in RSS set X, the M-IDM change to the second combination. The second combination 
includes one conjunction of two clean measurements which provides the most accurate information to 
localization system. The other two conjunctions combine with one corrupted and clean measurement, 
therefore average the effect of corrupted measurement and makes only a small contribution to the model. 
The probability of X_M can be derived by replacing features in Eq. 3 as follow: 
1 2
1 2
( | ) ( | ) ( | ) ( | )
M N M
N M
n n n
n n n
P L P x L P x L P x L
−
−
∨ ∑X

      (5) 
where we have omitted the terms corresponding to the joint probabilities between the conjunctions because 
these probabilities are typically small in comparison to the probabilities of the individual events. The value of 
M indicates the number of corrupted measurements, and the corresponding model can provide at least one 
conjunction consisting of clean measurements. For attack-free condition (M = 0), the model includes a full 
conjunction of measurements which equals to the product model. Therefore, the model gives the most suitable 
combination to attack-free condition. For M = N − 1, the model corresponding to inclusive disjunction model 
which is suitable to N − 1 corrupted measurements. The model with different value of M is also matched to a 
corresponding number of corrupted measurements.  
3.4 Automatic Selection of Order M  
After the inclusive disjunction based probability ( | )rP L ∨X  is estimated using Eq. 3 and normalized, the 
final location estimation can be obtained using Eq. 9. The major difference between our algorithm and 
traditional method is that a small ( | )nP x L  does not significantly influence the inclusive disjunction model.  
4 EXPERIMENTAL SETUP AND RESULTS 
4.1 Experimental Setup 
 To evaluate the effectiveness of our attack-resistant location algorithm, this study included experiments 
conducted in the Wi-Fi networks of the Wireless Mobile Computing Lab in the FarEasTone 
Telecommunications Building at Yuan-Ze University. Three Wi-Fi base stations were placed in the target area 
and all the three base stations were used to collect actual RSS data at 28 different reference locations to build 
a fingerprinting location system. An Asus laptop with Windows XP served as the mobile node, and 
NetStumbler network software gathered RSS data. The size of the test-bed was 16 ×  17.6 2m , and RSS data 
of three base stations were measured 200 times for each reference location. The training data was selected 
from 28 locations separated by a distance of 1.0 to 1.5 meters. A linear attack model then simulated 
two-attack, one attack and attack-free on RSS data collected from three APs [5], [6]. The model changed RSS 
into α ⋅ nx + β , where nx  was an unattacked observation, α and β  indicated two attacking parameters. 
The experiments compared four approaches, including the Bayesian approach, cluster-based, median-based, 
and sensor selection methods. The Bayesian approach is a traditional probabilistic positioning algorithm that 
adopts a product model. The cluster-based method uses K-means analysis to separate the location estimations 
into two clusters, and then outputs the averaged coordinates of the cluster with a smaller distance between its 
samples and its centroid [16]. The median-based method utilizes a median-based distance metric to sort all 
base stations and choose the median station for localization [6]. The sensor selection method is based on a 
nonparametric estimate of the Fisher Information. It rejects the measurements having the lowest confidence 
scores of the estimated covariance matrix [8].  
4.2 Performance Evaluation 
 This section compares the positioning performance of the proposed M-IDM algorithm with other 
approaches. First, a metal obstruction material that highly attenuates the propagation loss (17 dBm) was used 
to simulate attacks on RSS readings [5]. Two RSS readings of the mobile node were altered by the attacks, 
and the whole observations (two attacked and one unattacked RSSs) were used for positioning.  
Fig. 1 reports three error measures for five different algorithms in this scenario, where the CEP (circular 
error probability) is defined as the radius of the circle that has its center at the true location and contains the 
location estimates with a probability. Fig. 1 shows that, under the metal attenuation attacks, the 90% CEP of 
the proposed positioning system was around 4 m, whereas that of the Bayesian approach increased to 6.79 m. 
That means the M-IDM algorithm considerably improves the performance of the Bayesian method. The 
results also demonstrate the effectiveness of the cluster-based, median-based and sensor-selection methods,  
 
Fig. 2. The probability distribution of the test samples at a given reference location (r=1).The other reference locations were ranked 
in ascending order of their distances to this location (r=1).  
  Figure 3 indicates that the Bayesian approach was the most sensitive to attacks, as its mean error 
increased to almost five meters when α =1.4. This is because the probabilistic product model that the 
Bayesian approach adopts is susceptible to attacks. Under the same attack scenario, the cluster-based, 
median-based, sensor selection, auto-selected M-IDM and matched M-IDM reduced the mean error by 
10.20%, 22.45%, 34.28%, 50.3 and 51.02%, respectively, compared to the Bayesian approach. These 
outcomes demonstrated that the system proposed by this study was more secure and robust against attacks on 
RSS. The significant improvement achieved by this algorithm was due to the ability of the inclusive 
disjunction model to gather reliable location information. The proposed model computed the probabilities at 
reference locations using the disjunction of RSS such that the dominant probability was from reliable 
observations, and not attacked observations. Figure 3 also shows that the Bayesian approach achieves the best 
performance when there are no attacks. This is because a location-RSS correlation is better characterized by 
the conjunction of RSS when all observations are reliable. 
 
TABLE 1 
Mean positioning error of approaches in different degree and number of attack. 
 Next, we consider an alternative scenario in which only one attack exists in the environment. Figure 4 
compares the positioning performance of each algorithm in this case. This figure is generally consistent with 
those in Section 4.2. The main difference was that the performance of the median-based method was similar 
to the performance of the proposed algorithm. The reason for this result was that attacked observations usually 
become the outliers of RSS distributions when reliable observations exceed unreliable observations, resulting 
in easy removal of attacked observations with a median filter.  
 
Fig. 4. Mean positioning error versus the attacking factorα  in a one-attack scenario, where β =0 
5 CONCLUSION 
  Secure wireless positioning remains an important topic because location estimations are often required 
for vital locationbased services. However, broadcasted radio waves are vulnerable to a variety of malicious 
attacks due to the nature of the wireless medium. This study proposes an attack-resistant fingerprinting 
localization algorithm that uses a probabilistic inclusive disjunction model. The advantage of this approach is 
that, as a small probability contributes little to the IDM, this model allows an attacked observation to play a 
less significant role in the localization process, thus achieving more robust location estimations under security 
threats. Further more, we provide a comination method with a order M and an autometic selection algorithm 
for order M. The combination method can achieve more accuracy when the Mmatched the number of 
corruption. To evaluate the effectiveness of this attack-resistant location algorithm, this study analyzed actual 
Wi-Fi RSS data, developed a fingerprinting location system, and simulated various attacks on RSS using a 
linear attack model. Results demonstrated that the proposed approach achieved better robustness than 
cluster-based ,median-based and sensor selection methods under various attacks on RSS.  
REFERENCES 
[1] S. Golden and S. Bateman, “Sensor measurements for Wi-Fi location with emphasis on time-of-arrival 
ranging,” IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, vol. 6, no. 10, pp. 1185–1198, 2007.  
[2] J. Caffery, J. J., “A new approach to the geometry of TOA location,” in Vehicular Technology Conference, 
vol. 4, pp. 1943 –1949, 2000.  
[3] E. Elnahrawy, J. Austen-Francisco, and R. Martin, “Adding angle of arrival modality to basic rss location 
management techniques,” in Wireless Pervasive Computing, 2007. 
[4] J. Riba and A. Urruela, “A non-line-of-sight mitigation technique based on ML-detection,” in IEEE 
International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, vol. 2, pp. ii–153–6, 2004.  
[5] Y. Chen, K. Kleisouris, X. Li, W. Trappe, and R. P. Martin, “A security and robustness performance 
analysis of localization algorithms to signal strength attacks,” ACM Transactions on Sensor Networks, vol. 5, 
no. 1, pp. 1–37, 2009.  
[6] Z. Li, W. Trappe, Y. Zhang, and B. Nath, “Robust statistical methods for securing wireless localization in 
sensor networks,” Information processing in sensor networks, pp. 91–98, 2005.  
[7] J. Yang, Y. Chen, and W. Trappe, “Detecting sybil attacks in wireless and sensor networks using cluster 
analysis,” Mobile Ad Hoc and Sensor Systems, pp. 834–839, 2008.  
1 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
日期：100年 3月29
一、 參加會議經過 
日 
本次研討會在新加坡舉行，由於此研討會主要是從事機器學習與計算學者務必參加的盛會，因此
匯集了全世界的知名研究學者，剛好本人有作一些無線訊號處理的相關研究，故投稿至此。為了討論
目前機器學習與計算最熱門的問題與應用，此大會安排了18個special sections，讓我了解現在全世界
未來的研究趨勢及課題，目前有些課題是自己所熟知的，但許多卻是自己不足的，不同環境或許產生
不同的想法和動機，我可以藉由與這些來自世界各地的學者討論，增加自己的知識！ 
在論文議程上的安排，邀請三位國際知名的學者Prof.Shun-Feng Su，Professor Wang Jun及Jacek M. 
Zurada來做keynote speakers，如下: 
 Prof.Shun-Feng Su的題目為”Ideas and Problems in Adaptive Fuzzy Control ”，其內容大約如下: 
 Introduction to learning control and fuzzy systems 
 Basic ideas in adaptive fuzzy control  
 Problems and possible approaches for resolving those problems 
 Professor Wang Jun主要討論” Neural Networks” 相關議題。 
 Jacek M. Zurada主要討論”Electrical and Computer Engineering”相關議題。 
這三位教授非常清楚地介紹他們的理論技術，並廣泛地分析比較各種方法，詳細地介紹他們的研究成
計畫編號 NSC 99－2219－E－155－007 
計畫名稱 在無線網路惡意攻擊下的安全與強健定位機制 
出國人員
姓名 
方士豪 
服務機構
及職稱 
元智大學 助理教授 
會議時間 
100年 2月 26日
至 100年 2月 28
日 
會議地點 
新加坡 
會議名稱 
(中文)2011年第三屆機器學習與計算國際研討會 
(英文)2011 3rd International Conference on Machine Learning and 
Computing 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)使用多專家法的 ZigBee室內量測系統 
(英文)A ZigBee Indoor Positioning System Using a Multi-Expert Approach 
附件四 
3 
 
的大陸，留學幾乎是大陸學子的第一優先選擇，越來越多的大陸的學生冒出頭來，未來可能會遠遠超
過台灣，這是我們應該警惕的。台灣學者可以多參加此類的國際研討會，吸收來自世界各地的知識，
多朝向這方面的領域來發展。 
 
五、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
2011 3rd ICMLC論文集與論文光碟一份 
六、其他 
 
5 
 
究成果，不僅讓聽者獲益良多，更藉以吸引更多優秀的學者投入心力，為這方面的課題做出更大的突
破與貢獻。 
二、與會心得 
 會議主題是Intelligent Systems: Methodologies and Applications，報告是由我的學生賴韋嘉上台報
告，題目為 ”An Encryption-based Approach for Protecting Privacy in Network-based Location Systems”，
此報告是討論如何在不安全的網路環境保護使用者的隱私。這次報告是以口述的方式進行，學生的表
現尚可，事後有學者問是手可以應用在其他地方，可能是太緊張一時回答不出來，這方面還需要多多
加強。Yung-Sheng Chen的”Display Region Segmentation From A Computer Screen Image Using 
Closed-Contour Tracking” 演講方式令我印象深刻，讓我的學生學到了寶貴的一課。 
  
 
 
 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
四、建議 
 ICMLC研討會每年都會在大陸各地舉辦，對第一次報告的學生是一個不錯的選擇，除了學習
報告，也能比較兩岸的文化上的差異。近年來台灣學生大多是大學畢業，但是卻沒有應有的水準，
主要是表達能力差，缺乏上台演講的經驗。可以多參加類似這種的研討會，磨練學生們的能力。 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
Proceedings of 2011ICMLC論文與光碟一份 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/11/15
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 在無線網路惡意攻擊下的安全與強健定位機制
計畫主持人: 方士豪
計畫編號: 99-2219-E-155-007- 學門領域: 應用服務(網通國家型)
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
