適用於大型 VLSI 佈局問題之組合最佳化技術(I) 
“Combinatorial Optimization Techniques for Large Scale VLSI Layout Problems (I)” 
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-035-102 
執行期間：96 年 8 月 1 日 至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：陳德生 逢甲大學資訊工程系副教授 
一、 中文摘要 
本計畫的目標在於探討及研究如何將高
效能組合最佳化演算法的理論與方法應用在
大型 VLSI 最佳化問題上。我們首先著重在降
低功率消耗及連線延遲的問題上；並針對這兩
個問題，分別提出了(1)具有考慮連線延遲的電
壓配置演算法、及(2) 可應用於有障礙物之多
層 X 架構上的 Octagonal Steiner Trees 建構。 
英文摘要 
The objective of this research is to explore the 
theory and application of high performance 
combinatorial optimization algorithms to solve 
large-scale VLSI optimization problems. We first 
focus on the problems of reducing power and 
interconnection delay. According to these two 
problems, we propose two algorithms to handle 
(1) voltage assignment with interconnection delay 
consideration, and (2) multi-layer obstacles 
avoiding octagonal Steiner trees construction 
under X-architecture. 
二、 計畫的緣由與目的 
With the continuous and rapid increase in 
complexity of VLSI designs and fabrication 
technologies, the interconnection delay and 
power consumption problem becomes more 
difficult to solve. Furthermore, performance and 
power consumption often conflict with each other. 
High supply voltage makes circuits for better 
performance, but it also leads to greater power 
consumption. How to simultaneously minimize 
power consumption and satisfy the performance 
constraint is a very challenging problem.  
Multiple supply voltage (MSV) is a popular 
technique for power consumption reduction. It is 
defined as one chip is allowed to work with 
multiple voltages. In this research, we propose a 
new design flow to floorplan the given blocks 
first and then do MSV assignment with the 
interconnection information. By this way, we not 
only reduce the violation of interconnection delay, 
but also keep the quality of final floorplan. 
The interconnection delay is greatly affected 
by the quality of global routing. The goal of 
global routing is to decide the connection pattern 
for each net and satisfy different objectives. The 
input to the global routing problem consists of a 
netlist that indicates the interconnections between 
terminals and placement information including 
the terminal positions and the location of wiring 
channels in between them. In this research, we 
also handle the problem of multi-layer obstacles 
avoiding octagonal Steiner Minimal Tree  
construction. This technique is developed to 
tackle the global routing problem under 
X-architecture. 
三、 研究方法及成果 
z A Design Flow for Voltage Island Design 
Problem Considering Interconnect-Delay  
Figure 1 shows our flow for solving the MVF 
problem. There are four phases in the flow. First, 
find a floorplan using Parquet [1]. Second, 
determine the initial voltage assignment by 
dynamic programming based method. Third, 
locally reassign the voltage of some blocks to 
decrease the number of voltage islands. Finally, 
insert level-shifters if necessary 
 
Figure 1 The proposed design flow. 
E. Experimental Results 
We implemented our algorithm in C++ 
programming language and executed on a 1.6 
GHz CPU with 1.5GBytes memory workstation. 
We applied our method to GSRC and MCNC 
floorplan benchmarks. 
For voltage setting of island, there are total of 
four voltage levels available which are 1.0V, 
1.1V, 1.3V and 1.5V. And the number of supply 
voltage domain for each block ranges from one to 
three. We give relative value between power 
consumption and delay for different supply 
voltage of each block, which is according to the 
block area. We also give the interconnection 
direction. The delay and power of level shifter is 
assigned to 2.0 individually. Table 1 shows the 
specifications of the benchmarks for GSRC and 
MCNC. 
In floorplanning phase, we use Parquet to find 
solution allowing 15% white space for level 
shifter insertion. It will avoid the violation in 
level shifter insertion phase. However, it may 
need more chip area. Table 2 shows the solution 
after initial voltage assignment, and the 
improvement solution after reassigning is shown 
in Table 3.  
 
Table 1 the benchmarks for GSRC and MCNC. 
 
Table 2 the solution after initial voltage assignment. 
 
 
In Table 2, # island is the number of island and 
PS is power saving, Di means the decreasing 
island number. And PS can be simply computed 
by  Power_saving = ( PH – PA ) / PH * 100 %, 
where PH is the total power consumption with 
high voltage, and PA is the total power 
consumption after assigning voltage by dynamic 
programming based method. 
For example, the decreased island number of 
ami33 is (33-22)/33, the saving power of ami33 is 
21%; the decreasing island number of ami49 is 
(49-17)/49 and the power saving of ami49 is 
51%. 
Since we set 15% white space to insert level 
shifter and simultaneously satisfy the fixed 
outline constraint, the more area penalty is 
costed. 
 
Table 3 The improvement solution according to 
reassigning. 
 
 
In Table 3, “before” is the number of island 
without reassignment and “after” is the number of 
island with reassignment. The improvement is 
defined by  
Improvement = (after – before) / # blocks * 100 %, 
where before is the number of islands before 
locally voltage-reassignment, and after is the 
number of islands after improvement. We find the 
decreasing island numbers affects the power 
saving. The rate of improvement is relative to two 
major factors: (1) the number of blocks, and (2) 
the power saving rate in initial phase. From the 
results, we can get the relation between power 
saving and improvement. The better improvement 
may be gotten if the number of PS is smaller.   
 
z Multi-Layer Obstacles Avoiding Octagonal 
Steiner Trees Construction 
In this research project, we also handle the 
problem of Multi-layer Obstacles Avoiding 
Octagonal Steiner Minimal Tree construction. 
The method can be divided into three phases. In 
the first phase, we construct a minimal spanning 
tree (MST); in the second phase, the generated 
MST is transformed into a Rectilinear Steiner 
Minimal Tree (RSMT), and then the RSMT is 
modified to an Octagonal Steiner Minimal Tree. 
The proposed algorithm is a continuous work of 
previous year’s project, with an extension to 
Octagonal Steiner Minimal Tree construction 
ICESS 2008 會議 出席心得報告 
會議出席者: 逢甲大學資訊工程系 陳德生 
 
一、會議相關重要事實陳述： 
ICESS (International Conference on Embedded Software and Systems)是國際電子電機工
程師學會每年定期舉行的會議。ICESS 也是電子工程領域中關於嵌入式系統軟體及硬體設計的專業
會議。今年的舉辦地點在中國成都。會議時間從 2008 年 7 月 29 到 7 月 31 共 3 天。 
今年論文的投稿總數為 483 篇，總共有 90 篇論文被大會接受，接受率為 18%。另外，大會也在
7 月 29 日上午安排了 3 個 精彩的 keynote speeches 分別是 
“China’s National Research Project on Wireless Sensor Networks”, given by Prof. Lionel Ni, Chair 
Professor of Computer Science and Engineering, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology.  
“Optimize Parallel Embedded Systems” given by Prof. Edwin Sha, Department of Computer Science, 
University of Texas at Dallas, U.S.A.  
“A Brief Introduction to Loongson Processors” given by Dr. Weiwu Hu, Chief Architect of Loongson 
Processors, Institute of Computing Technology, Chinese Academic of Sciences. 
此次參加會議的主要目的是發表一篇題目為“Memory Models for an Application-Specific 
Instruction-Set Processor Design Flow＂的學術論文。論文是安排在 7 月 30 日下午 1:30
的 ”Compilation and Application-Specific Instruction Set” Session 進行口頭報告。過程中
也針對聽眾的問題提出適切的答案，使他們更了解我們的研究成果。 
二、心得： 
隨著電路設計愈來愈複雜，對於嵌入式系統的軟硬體的設計需求也愈來愈殷切。從本次大會的
研究論文趨勢來看，這個領域在未來的幾年應該還是熱門的研究方向。在大會安排的多個關於 
embedded system applications、SoC Design methodology、Embedded Software Optimization 、Embedded 
Hardware、Hardware/Software Co-Design 等 sessions 中，與會者豐富的討論內容與精闢的講演都
令人獲益良多。同時，在會議期間也藉此機會與世界各地的專家學者交換研究心得。 
三、結語： 
亞太地區在嵌入式系統的設計與製造上已逐漸在世界上扮演舉足輕重的地位。ICESS 在研究與
經驗分享上提供學者與業界一個非常好的交流的機會，值得鼓勵參加。最後要感謝國科的經費補
助，使得本次的會議行程能圓滿順利完成。 
 
