1中英文計畫摘要
軟性電子（Flexible Electronics）的技術是將微電子元件製作在軟性可撓式塑
膠或薄金屬基板上。由於軟性電子具有製程便宜、重量輕、成本極低廉、耐摔、
耐衝擊以及可用來製造各種不同形狀的電子產品等特性，因此國外研究機構紛紛
投入相關技術的研發並將其應用在特殊勤務人員的電子行動裝置上，國內也有許
多特殊勤務人員逐漸仰賴電子行動裝置的協助來完成任務。
特殊勤務人員常需具備快速行動且保持雙手快速使用裝備之應變能力，而採
用軟性面板技術之裝置將可提供更高的行動性及耐久性。本研究將以警務人員為
例，分析目前警務人員執勤時，其配備所產生的 33 個問題點。利用數量化 IV 類
及群集分析整理出問題點之概念結構並將其分化出六群。依據前階段所得之設計
概念結構，將「軟性」及「穿戴式」之意象，進行轉化並提出四案穿戴式電腦之
概念設計。
關鍵詞：軟性電子、穿戴式電腦、人因工程
Wearable computer offers job-critical information to people whose hands must be
free for other works. By adopting the flexible electronic technology, designs of such
apparatus provide the features of highly mobility and durability. This paper takes the
duties of the police as a case study. By analyzing the activities of the police and the
problems of currently used apparatus, thirty-three problems were elicited. A
Quantification Method Type IV and a cluster analysis were employed to analyze the
problem’s structure and six groups of problems were highlighted. The design
specifications were derived from the previous studies. Four conceptual designs of
wearable computers were proposed by transferring the soft and wearable images in the
design processes. Developing and evaluating the experimental prototypes will be
undertaken for further analysis.
Keywords: flexible display, wearable computer, image-transformation
3Fig. 1. The research flow chart
2 Literature Review
There were a lot of studies regarding the technical development and applications on the
wearable computers. However, most of the studies reported either the development of
the state-of-the-art or the software applications for the devices. The interaction designs
regarding the usability were seldom investigated.
Lewis et al., (1998) introduced two types of wearable displays developed by
Honeywell. The body-worn display was a wrist-type display with a wireless interface
while another see-through display, looked like a pair of binoculars, was a handhold
device and could be worn around the neck.
IBM integrated and released its prototype for wearable computer in 2000 (Ditlea,
2000). Combined with a walkman-like CPU, wrist-wearing keyboard, HUD, earphone
and wrist-wearing touch panel, this unit provided information in helping users to check
the inventory and to maintain facilities.
With light beams sensing fingertips and motion sensors tracking hand movement,
the“Lightgolve”was an experimental apparatus (Howard and Howard, 2001). This
inexpensive design offered a solution for virtual typing and pointing system. However,
some of the technical issues needed further explorations.
5According to the police handbook, major duties for the primary-level policemen
were “patrol”, “on-site inspection”, “road blocking”, “touring around the responsibility 
areas”, “swing shift”, “onguard” and “standby”. Among those missions, “patrol”, 
“on-site inspection” and “road blocking” were the duties in which most of the 
apparatus were used. And some of the apparatus were repeatedly used in different
tasks.
4 Investigations on the Problems Experienced During the Duties Performed
An open questionnaire was designed based on the previous study and 22 policemen
from Taipei metropolis were requested to fill-in the questionnaire.
Before the questions were requested, 3 flow-charts, regarding theduties of “patrol”, 
“on-site inspection” and “road blocking”, were reproduced and presented to the
subjects as references. The subjects were requested to describe the problems
experienced in performing their duties referred to those check-points in each work
flow.
The questionnaire was divided into three sections. The first section consists of 10
questions about the problems caused during the patrol. The second section consists of
10 questions about the problems caused when conducting on-site inspection. The third
section consists of 13 questions about the problems caused when conducting the
mission of road blocking. All questions were open-end questions and, for each question,
the subjects were requested to describe the problems experienced in using current
apparatus and their suggestions on the improvement. According to the responses of the
subjects, 33 problems or complains were elicited.
5 Investigation on the Problem Structure
In order to find out the problem structure, a Quantification Method and a cluster analysis were employed
at this stage. A correlation matrix was produced based on the 33 problems drawn from the previous
study. The correlation between each problem set was evaluated by giving a score from 1 to 10 (“1” 
means null-correlated while “10” means complete-correlated between the two variables).
The average scores drawn by focus group members were analyzed by using the
Quantification Method. The problem structure could be categorized into two
dimensions. The first dimension could be explained as the issue of “the apparatus and 
the working procedures”, the horizontal axis, while the second dimension could be
explained as the issue of “security concerns”, the vertical axis.
To classify these 33 problems into groups, a cluster analysis was employed. The
result of the cluster analysis was showed as Fig. 2. and six groups of problems were
highlighted. The plot of each group was illustrated in Fig. 3.
7(P28) Some apparatus, such as radio and PDA, are unable to extract rapidly. Thus, it
might threaten the safety of the personnel.
(P23) The police might feel confusion while handling their equipment and events
simultaneously (e.g. report to the head quarter while chasing the suspects).
(P19) Not easy to inscribe data while using hands for other events.
(P20) No space to hold the ID collected.
Group C:
In this group, problems included (P04), (P15), (P07), (P09), (P33), (P10) and (P26).
These problems were related to the usability of the apparatus and can be explained as
the “problems of durability and eficiency”.
(P04) There is no effective backup plan if some apparatus, such as the radio and
PDA, are damaged or suddenly mal-functioned.
(P15) No physically protecting features, such as waterproof, anti-shaking and
breakage-proof, for the apparatus.
(P07) Poor radio signal reception.
(P09) Limited battery life of radio.
(P33) Police might feel exhausted after tracking suspects for a long time.
(P10) Limited radio reception coverage.
(P26) Police are unable to locate themselves promptly in unfamiliar environment.
Group D:
In this group, problems included (P11), (P25), (P27) and (P21). It can be interpreted
as the “problems of usability”.
(P11) The operating procedures of some apparatus, such as the radio and PDA, are
complicated.
(P25) Specifications are different from model to model.
(P27) The operating procedures vary from model to model.
(P21) Data in Police’s PDA is not sufficient and cannot be updated promptly (e.g.
unable to distinguish the true or false of the ID)
Group E:
In this group, problems included (P16), (P32), (P30), (P17), (P18) and (P29). Some
problems were related to safety concerns for a individual police while other problems
were related to the use of the apparatus. In general, it can be interpreted as the
“problems of security concerns”.
(P16) There is no effective backup plan if some apparatus are lost.
(P32) Data transmission is not secured and there is a possibility of revealing
confidential information.
(P30) The alcoholmeter provides incorrect data and lags for printout.
97 Design development
Based on the design requirements and product images derived from previous study, a
morphological analysis was employed to explore the design solutions. The diagram of
the morphological analysis was showed in Table 1.
Table.1 Diagram of the Morphological Analysis
Requirements
Solutions
(Implementation of the flexible electronics)
A-1
Integrate unit combined with data transmission and
information query system.(A) Portability
A-2 Separate unit with modulized design.
B-1 On the shoulder.
B-2 On waist(B) Easy to Access
B-3 In front of the chest.
(C) Durability and
Efficiency
Restore the unit to prevent collision
(D) Ease to Use Adopt the touchable flexible display (by finger or use stylus)
(E) Security
Concerns
Add-on fingerprint reader and personalized GPS system
(F) Simplify the
Paper Works
Integrate IC and USB interface into the apparatus for data processing
and transmission.
G-1 Insert something into the packet in front of the chest.
G-2 Put on the headset, glasses, hearing aids.
G-3 Put on the protective gear.
(G) Wearable Image
(examples)
G-4 Put on the life jacket or vest.
H-1 Something loses its tension.
H-2 Rocking jelly or pudding.
H-3 Breezed hair or prairie
(H) Soft Image
(examples)
H-4 The bug or worm wriggles along.
Design A integrates the data transmission unit and information query mechanisms
into one set and this flexible unit can be attached around the shoulder. Police can easily
access the information through the head-up display unit without holding any apparatus
in hand.
Similar to the integrated concept of design A, design B can be worn in from of the
chest. The flexible display, built in rubber housing, can be folded when not use. Police
can access and restore the device easily.
Design C separates the PDA with the other transmitting apparatus. This flexible
11
References
1. Cho; C., Yang; H., Kim, G.J.; Han, S.H., 2002 , Body-based Interfaces, Proceedings of the Fourth
IEEE International Conferences on Multimodal Interfaces, pp.466 –472, 14-16 Oct. 2002 ,Seoul,
Korea.
2. Ditlea, S., 2000, The PC goes ready-to-wear, IEEE Spectrum, Vol. 37 , No. 10, pp. 34-39.
3. Fishkin, K.P., Partidge, K., Chatterjee, S., 2002, Wireless user interface components for personal area
networks, IEEE Pervasive Computing, Vol. 1 , No. 4, pp. 49-55.
4. Howard, B. and Howard, S., 2001, Lightglove: wrist-worn virtual typing and pointing, Proceedings of
the Fifth International Symposium on Wearable Computers, pp. 172 –173, 8-9 Oct. 2001, Zurich
Switzerland.
5. Lewis, S. A., Havey, G. D. and Hanzal, B., 1998 ,Handheld and Bodyworn Graphical Displays,
Proceedings of the Second International Symposium on Wearable Computing, pp.. 102 –107, 19-20
Oct., 1998, Honeywell Technology Center, USA.
6. Lin, R. and Kreifeldt, J.G., 2001, Ergonomics in wearable computer design, International Journal of
Industrial Ergonomics, Vol. 27, No. 4, pp. 259-269.
7. Lukowicz, P., Anliker, U., Ward, J., Troster, G., Hirt, E., Neufelt, C., 2002, AMON: a wearable
medical computer for high risk patients, Proceedings of the Sixth International Symposium on
Wearable Computers 2002 (ISWC 2002), pp. 133 –134, 7-10 Oct. 2002, Wearable Comput. Lab,
Eidgenossische Tech. Hochschule, Zurich, Switzerland.
8. Narayanaswami, C., Raghunath, M.T., 2000, Application design for a smart watch with a high
resolution display, Proceedings of the Fourth International Symposium on Wearable Computers, pp.
7–14, 16-17 Oct. 2000, Atlanta, GA USA.
9. Randell, C., Muller, H.L., 2002, The eSleeve: a novel wearable computer configuration for the
discovery of situated information, Proceedings of the 22nd International Conference on Distributed
Computing Systems Workshops, pp. 793 –796, 2-5 July 2002, Dept. of Comput. Sci., Bristol Univ.,
UK.
10. Hsu, L. P., 2003, Development of a Wearable Biomedical Health-Care System, Master Dissertation,
Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.
