1 
 
中文摘要 
 
瞭解中腦聽覺細胞的誘發特徵(Triggering Feature)將有助於明白腦部對於聲音的處理方式，頻時受區
(Spectro-temporal receptive fields, STRFs)是使用隨機的音頻訊號(Random Stimuli)刺激聽覺細胞後，將所
有造成細胞反應的音頻訊號疊合產生的二維時間-頻率直方圖用以觀察誘發特徵，但以這種方式產生的頻
時受區通常很模糊。之前我們已經設計了一套演算法可以補償調頻聲(FM Sensitive)細胞的響應抖動
(Spike Response Jitter)反應的以產生更清晰的頻時受區。在此我們擴充這個演算法來分離細胞響應成兩群
(正常及超出範圍)並且畫出對應的頻時受區，我們發現正常細胞響應的誘發特徵與原本頻時受區的誘發
特徵完全相似，而超出範圍細胞響應的誘發特徵與原本頻時受區的誘發特徵只有部分相似，這個演算法
似乎可以用來分解誘發特徵。實驗結果發現即使是同一細胞響應也可能包含不同的誘發特徵，而這些響
應的個數有這不小的差距，因此我們建議使用隨機訊號刺激細胞所產生的誘發特徵在製作頻時受區時不
應該給與相同的權重值。 
 
關鍵詞：調頻聲專一反應, 頻時受區, 誘發點, 有限脈衝響應, 類神經網路, 中腦細胞, 下丘 
 
Abstract 
 
Knowledge on the trigger features of central auditory neurons is important in the understanding of speech 
processing. Spectro-temporal receptive fields (STRFs) obtained using random stimuli and spike-triggered 
averaging allow visualization of trigger features which often appear blurry in the time-versus-frequency plot. 
For better visualization in the STRFs we have previously developed an algorithm to sharpen the trigger features 
of FM-sensitive cells by compensating for spike response jitters. Here we extended this algorithm to segregate 
spikes, based on their values of jitter adjustment, into two groups (viz., normal versus outlying) and replotted 
their corresponding STRFs. We found that while STRFs from the normal jitter group resembled full trigger 
feature revealed in the original STRF, those from the outlying jitter group resembled partial trigger features. 
This method of analysis apparently allowed visualization of components in the trigger feature. Results are 
consistent with a difference in trigger features across spikes even for the same cell. Due to such heterogeneity in 
the FM trigger features, we proposed that in the generation of STRF using random stimuli the evoked spikes 
should not be treated indiscriminately with equal weightings. 
 
Keyword: Inferior Colliculus, Midbrain Auditory Neurons, Trigger Point, Spectro-Temporal Receptive Field, 
FM Sensitivity 
 
1 Introduction 
 
1.1 Neural coding of FM sounds:  
 
The knowledge on neural coding of frequency modulation (FM) sounds is important for the understanding 
of how the brain processes speech signals since FM components are commonly found in communication sounds 
(Doupe and Kuhl, 1999). Psychophysical and functional imaging studies have also confirmed in humans the 
sensitivity to a variety of FM sounds (Behne et al., 2005; Chen and Zeng, 2004; Hart et al., 2003; Husain et al., 
3 
 
Fig. 1: Spectro-temporal receptive field (STRF) showing the trigger feature of an FM-sensitive cell (u1456) in 
response to random FM tones. (A) Note the concentration of modulating waveforms (n=3,140) indicating an 
up-sweep FM occurring 10-20 msec before the spike. (B) STRF with sharpened stimulus feature after response 
jitter adjustment. Note the FM trigger point (marked by ‘+’; see also Fig. 2D ) lies towards the end of the 
‘FM-band’. The number of waveforms used in each plot is indicated at the lower-left corner. Color at each pixel 
codes the probability of occurrence of the modulating signal (see scale). 
 
1.3 Aim of this study: 
 
In our previous study of midbrain auditory neurons, we had developed an algorithm to sharpen trigger 
features in the STRF based on the compensation of response jitters (Fig. 1B; Chang et al., 2006). This 
algorithm has allowed a closer examination of the FM trigger features. At the auditory midbrain the synaptic 
inputs derived from the cochleae are tonotopically structured into frequency laminae (Clopton and Winfield, 
1972; review see Malmierca, 2004). Each lamina receives synaptic inputs confined to certain frequency band of 
the stimulus sounds. It is tempting to speculate that the trigger features of FM-sensitive cells might contain 
smaller and likely separable components, each corresponding likely to inputs from individual frequency 
laminae within close proximity. We therefore hypothesize that if spikes responses from a given cell were 
segregated into different groups and analyzed according to certain response properties, different trigger features 
might emerge. In the present study, a novel method of analysis was implemented to test this hypothesis. 
 
2 Materials and methods 
 
2.1 Animal preparation:  
 
Rats (Sprague Dawley, 200-250 gm) were anesthetized with urethane (1.5 g/kg, i.p., maintained at 0.4 g/kg 
for pain areflexia when necessary) and fixed with a special head holder for recording extracellular single units 
using conventional electrophysiological procedures. The skull overlying the occipital cortex was first surgically 
opened and glass micropipette electrode (impedance 20-70 MΩ) was advanced into the midbrain inferior 
colliculus (IC) using a stepping micro-drive (Narishige) to hunt for single units that responded to repetitive 
hunting signal (click, 0.1 msec width, ~90 dB SPL). After an auditory unit had been identified, we recorded its 
responses to a series of acoustic signals via a computer interface (Tucker Davies Technology System II) after 
signal amplification and filtering (Axonprobe 1A, PARC-5113). The animal was placed inside a sound-treated 
chamber (Industrial Acoustic Corporation) for free-field acoustic stimulations and its body temperature was 
maintained with a heating pad. The procedure was approved by the Animal Ethics Committee, Laboratory 
Animal Center, NCKU. 
 
2.2 FM stimuli:  
 
Two sets of FM stimuli were used. The first set consisted of three versions of random FM tones. They 
were generated by digitally low-pass filtering a white noise at 12.5, 25 or 125 Hz. The filtered signal was then 
fed to the voltage-control-frequency input of a function generator (Tektronix FG280) to control the 
5 
 
 
Fig. 2: Determination of ‘trigger point’ of an FM-sensitive cell based on response delays to FM ramps. (A) 
Frequency profiles of six FM ramps of various periods. (B) The corresponding spike responses are shown in dot 
raster (each dot represents an action potential). (C) Corresponding peri-stimulus time histograms (PSTHs) after 
summing dot raster in time. Arrow indicates PSTH with the maximal spike count and the PSTH was 
low-pass-filtered and overlaid with the jitter adjustment histogram in Fig. 4B. (D) Relationship of PSTH peak 
delay plotted against the period of FM ramps showing a straight line fit. The y-intercept of the regression line 
represents the ‘central transmission time’ from the source to the neuron. Its slope represents the phase or 
frequency point on the FM ramp at which the spike is triggered. This ‘trigger point’ is plotted in Fig. 1B for 
comparison with the FM trigger feature. 
 
7 
 
optimized further against the time-window of the selected modulating waveform. Details of this method were 
reported elsewhere (Chang et al., 2006), and its principle is described below with an example illustrated in Fig. 
3. 
 
Mean and variance time profiles: In a typical 5-min dataset recorded from an FM-sensitive cell, we captured 
over 1,000 peri-spike modulating waveforms of the stimulating FM tone (40 msec pre-, 10 msec post-). The 
‘mean frequency time profile’ and its corresponding ‘variance time profile’ were computed. 
 
2.4.1 Time-shift analysis: A modulating waveform was first time-shifted systematically (over a range of +20 
to -5 msec, corresponded to a window spanning from 20 msec pre- to 5 msec post- spike, 0.4 msec steps) 
using a fixed time window (chosen systemically from 5 to 15 msec, 1 msec steps). At each shifted time, 
a ‘similarity index’ between the shifted modulating waveform and the ‘mean frequency time profile’ 
was computed (with the time window centered at the minimum position of the ‘variance time profile’). 
From the curve of ‘similarity indices’ versus shift times, the shift yielding the maximal similarity was 
taken as the ‘optimal shift time’. This procedure of ‘optimal shift time’ was computed for each of the 
modulating waveforms, and waveforms were finally shifted according to its individual ‘optimal shift 
time’. A new ‘variance time profile’ (and new ‘mean frequency time profile’) was then obtained. 
  
2.4.2 Comparing new and old ‘variance time profile’: We then compared the new and the old ‘variance time 
profiles’ with a ‘disparity index’. 
 
2.5 From disparity indices to ‘sharpened STRF’:  
 
Using the new ‘mean frequency time profile’, the process of computing ‘disparity index’ between two 
consecutive ‘variance time profiles’ was repeated (following steps 2.4.2 and 2.4.3) until the change in ‘disparity 
indices’ reached a stable level. The STRF was then taken as the final result of jitter adjustment (or called 
‘sharpened STRF’ for simplicity). 
  
2.6 Matching with per-stimulus time histogram (PSTH):  
 
Using spike responses of the same cell to the family of FM ramps, a family of peri-stimulus time histograms 
(PSTHs) were generated (Fig. 2B,C). The peak of the PSTH represented the probability of maximal neural 
response to the stimulus and the extent of distribution in time represented the response jitter. The PSTH of the 
FM ramp that matched best with the slope of the ‘FM band’ in the STRF was taken as the ‘matched PSTH’. 
Based on the response peak latencies measured from the PSTHs a plot of delay times (y-axis) against the 
periods of FM ramp (x-axis) was further generated (Fig. 2D). A linear regression of the data points yielded an 
equation: y = ax + b, where slope ‘a’ and intercept ‘b’ represented the phase and central transmission delay time 
respectively. The central transmission delay ‘b’ represented the time taken from the stimulus to reach the spike 
generator at the cell. The phase ‘a’ gave the frequency position of the ‘trigger point’. The position of the ‘trigger 
point’ also allows comparison with the ‘sharpened STRF’ generated in the last session (Fig. 1B). Details of this 
analysis gave been reported elsewhere (Poon and Yu, 2000). 
9 
 
for simplicity (Fig. 4D). Those outliers in the jitter adjustment histogram were placed in a second group, called 
‘outlying jitter group’ (Fig. 4E). Stimulus trigger features in the respective STRFs looked somewhat different 
between the two groups, even before any sharpening of trigger features (Fig. 4G,H). 
 
 
Fig. 5: Sharpened FM trigger features of different groups after jitter adjustment showing results of two 
FM-sensitive cells (A-C, and D-F). Three horizontal grid lines are added to facilitate comparison of trigger 
features across groups. Note the apparent partial features in the outlying jitter groups (C, F). The number of 
spikes in each group is indicated at the lower-left corner of each panel.  
 
2.8 Sharpening trigger features in the two groups:  
 
Using data in each group we computed ‘optimal shift time’ of the modulating waveforms following steps 
2.4.1 to 2.5 to produce corresponding ‘sharpened STRFs’ (Fig. 5). Here only the normal jitter adjustment time 
window (about +/- 5 msec) was used for adjustment. Only modulating waveforms showing a local optimum 
within this time window were extracted for further analysis.  
 
3 Results 
 
3.1 Trigger features of the spike groups with ‘normal jitter adjustment’:  
 
For a given FM-sensitive cell, usually about 60% of all the spikes would show up in this group. The trigger 
feature or ‘FM band’ in the STRFs of this group invariably showed close resemblance to those in the original 
STRFs (Fig. 4F,G and Fig. 5AB, 5DE).  
11 
 
 
4.4 Complexity of FM coding mechanisms:  
 
Our results on different trigger features are consistent with the recent reports on the non-linear properties in 
FM-sensitive neurons at the cortex (Machens et al., 2004; Christianson et al., 2008; Ahrens et al., 2008). One 
has to point out that results reported at different neural stations (i.e., midbrain and cortex) should be compared 
with caution due to the difference in circuit properties. One advantage of studying the auditory midbrain as 
opposed to the cortex is that its coding mechanism is likely simpler. Furthermore we adopted a mono-tone 
instead of multi-tone (e.g., dynamic ripple; Christianson et al., 2008) as the FM stimulus because results are 
likely more easily explained. 
 
5. Conclusions  
 
Using spike jitter adjustment and the information derived from it, we were able to isolate for the first time 
shorter segments of trigger features from STRFs of FM-sensitive cells. Results strongly suggested that in the 
generation of STRF using random FM tones the spikes should not be treated indiscriminately with equal 
weightings. 
 
References 
 
[1] Aertsen, A.M., Olders, J.H. and Johannesma, P.I. (1981) Spectro-temporal receptive fields of auditory 
neurons in the grassfrog. III. Analysis of the stimulus-event relation for natural stimuli. Biol. Cybern. 39, 
195-209. 
[2] Aertsen, A.M. and Johannesma, P.I. (1981a) A comparison of the spectro-temporal sensitivity of auditory 
neurons to tonal and natural stimuli. Biol. Cybern. 42, 145-56. 
[3] Aertsen, A.M. and Johannesma, P.I. (1981b) The spectro-temporal receptive field. A functional 
characteristic of auditory neurons. Biol. Cybern. 42, 133-43. 
[4] Ahrens, M.B., Linden, J.F. and Sahani, M. (2008). Nonlinearities and contextual influences in auditory 
cortical responses modeled with multilinear spectrotemporal methods. J. Neurosci. 28, 1929-42. 
[5] Andoni, S. Li, N. and Pollak, G.D. (2007). Spectrotemporal receptive fields in the inferior colliculus 
revealing selectivity for spectral motion in conspecific vocalizations. J. Neurosci. 27, 4882-93. 
[6] Bart, E., Bao, S. and Holcman, D. (2005). Modeling the spontaneous activity of the auditory cortex. J. 
Comput. Neurosci., 19, 357-78.  
[7] Behne, N., Scheich, H. and Brechmann, A. (2005). Contralateral white noise selectively changes right 
human auditory cortex activity caused by a FM-direction task. J. Neurophysiol., 93, 414-23. 
[8] Chang, T.R., Chung, P.C., Chiu, T.W. and Poon, P.W. (2005). A new method for adjusting neural response 
jitter in the STRF obtained by spike-trigger averaging. Biosystems. 79, 213-22.  
[9] Chen, H. and Zeng, F.G. (2004). Frequency modulation detection in cochlear implant subjects. J. Acoust. 
Soc. Am. 116, 2269-77. 
[10] Chiu, T.W. and Poon, P.W. (2007) Multiple-band trigger features of midbrain auditory neurons revealed in 
composite spectro-temporal receptive fields. Chin. J. Physiol. 2007 50, 105-12. 
