This proposal is a two year project and the major task for each year is as shown in the 
following table: (*: completed, ^: to be finished). The second year task will be 
fabrication of the ultrasonic devices and testing for their sensitivity of detecting CRP. 
 
1st year Device Fabrication 
*Preparing AlN, ZnO and Ta2O5 film layers on silicone substrate with high 
acoustic quality 
*Developing lithography and Fabrication of FBar and transducer prototype 
^Developing pico-second laser system to measure the acoustic properties (in 
cooperation with Prof. Ben-Je Lwo at the Chung-Cheng Institute of 
Technology, National Defense University) 
^Measurement of electric properties by network analyzer and comparing results 
with simulation 
XRD plot of AlN thin film 
FWHM at different RF power 
  
附件 1 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
計畫編號 NSC 97-2221-E-214 -002 
計畫名稱 超音波薄膜微探頭與化學感測元件之研製(I) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
吳士傑 義守大學機動系助理教授 
會議時間地點 Aug. 25-29 2009, Berlin Germany 
會議名稱 Thermac 2009 Berlin 
發表論文題目 
MECHANICAL PROPERTIES OF HASTELLOY X 
SUPERALLOY AFTER GTAW AND ND-YAG LASER 
WELDING 
 
一、參加會議經過 
Thermac是材料研究領域兩年一度的盛事，有來自數十國家近千人參予，論
文內容涵蓋金屬、陶瓷、生醫奈米材料及其他先進材料之檢測與製程。Thermac 
2009 Berlin會議地點在 MARITIM Hotel Berlin ，位於柏林市中心區。本人於
Aug 23搭乘華航班機至香港轉 Lufthansa航班到 Frankfurt，再轉機於 23日深夜
抵柏林。 
次日到會場報報並領取資料，同行亦有義大材料系同仁、中山大學及台大材
料系團隊。今年 Plenary Lecture分別為 Professor Akihisa Inoue, President Tohoku 
University, Japan "Recent Progress in Bulk Metallic Glasses in Sendai Group"及
Professor Eduard Arzt, Director Leibniz Institute for New Materials, Germany 
"Bio-Inspired Functional Surfaces: Adhesion Through Fibrillar Microstructure" 本人
因數屆會議皆有參加，所以主辦單位將論文列為 Invited Paper，口頭報告時間為
Aug 26 10:40-11:00AM。同 Session 有來自英國 Univ. Manchester 的 Prof. P. 
J.Withers ，他在 X-ray diffraction stress measurement 有相當多的論文發表 ，能
有機會就近請教實屬難得。 
附件2 
Comparison of the Mechanical Properties of Hastelloy X 
Material after Welding by GTAW and Nd-YAG Laser 
 
Shih-jeh Wu1, Chao-Wei Du and Chen-Ming Kuo2 
Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering  
I-Shou University 
1 Section 1, Hsueh-Cheng Rd.; Ta-Hsu, Kaohsiung 84008, Taiwan 
Email:
 1wsj007@isu.edu.tw, 2cmkuo@isu.edu.tw 
 
Keywords: Gas Tungsten Arc Welding (GTAW), Nd-YAG laser welding, Hastelloy X, 
Tensile Property Testing, X-ray diffraction. 
 
Abstract. Cracks induced by metal fatigue and structural aging effect can’t be fixed 
by traditional Gas Tungsten Arc Welding (GTAW), consequently cause the increasing 
of defect ratio.  Although some cracks might be acceptable and qualified to field 
service standard subject to the military regulation, however, in certain areas, e.g. 
brazing and coating areas, the results are not ideal especially the HAZ and residual 
stress.  In this study, Nd-YAG Laser welding and traditional GTAW processes were 
performed on Hastelloy X superalloy for comparison.  Post-welding residual stress 
distribution was measured by X-ray diffraction method.  Macro- and microstructure 
were observed by metallurgical OM and SEM in comparison to the hardness testing.  
Tensile test results show that traditional welding technology has better ultimate tensile 
strength and ductility.  For the Nd:YAG laser welding, residual stress is limited to 
3mm of the both sides of weld and drops drastically, while higher amplitude and 
widely spread in the GTAW welding.  It is proposed that combining both methods, 
the repairing process can be optimized to reduce the defect ratio and save repairing 
time. 
Introduction 
Superalloy plays an important role in the development of turbomachinery in the 
aerospace industry [1-4].  The superior properties at high temperature (e.g. creep 
resistance, corrosion resistance, and thermal fatigue) have consistently improved the 
performance of aircraft engines.  During the regular checkup of turboengine parts in 
service small cracks, scratches, and dents are usually found due to FOD 
(Foreign-Object-Damage) or DOD (Domestic-Objective-Damage).  These defect 
The rapture surface is also under SEM inpection (Scanning Electron Microscope) with 
a Hitachi-4700 machine at 15KV.  The X-ray diffraction measurement is performed 
with a PANalytical X’PERT PRO (CrKα, 1.5KW, 45KV) machine subject to ASTM 
E1426-98 standard [13] at three ψ angles (0°, 30° and 60°).   
 
Results and discussion 
The microscopic metallurgical photos of GTAW and Nd:YAG laser welding are 
shown in Figure 2.  They can be categorized as the base metal, weld and HAZ areas.  
In the GTAW welding, the conjunction area between weld and base metal is cooled 
first and solidified in granular structure.  With the addition of weld material the 
dendritic structure starts to grow towards the weld in later stage of solidification.  
Lastly, on the center weld area, the columnar grains grow up from closed un-fusion 
grains due to lack of cooling protection from Ar gas.  The grain size in the weld area 
is about 16.78µm.  In the Nd:YAG laser welding, the fine and uniform granular 
structure is distributed in the weld as the grain is about 2.38µm in contrast to the 
40.61µm grain size in base material.  The significant difference of grain size is due 
to the rapid heating and cooling process during laser welding.  The results of 
hardness tests are listed in Table 1.  Each value of hardness is taken from the average 
of 5 data points.  The hardness of the weld in laser welding is much higher than in 
GTAW while they are very close in base material and HAZ in both methods.  The 
reason is that the laser heating is much faster than GTAW in the weld and this rapid 
growth of granular structure much enhances the hardness (corresponding to the fine 
and packed metallurgical structure observed).   
The tensile test results are listed in Table 2. Each data are taken from the average 
of three samples.  The ultimate tensile stress of GTAW sample is slightly less than 
the base material while the ultimate tensile stress in laser welding is seriously 
deteriorated to almost half of the value of base material.  Similarly, the extension 
rate of laser welding is much less than base material and GTAW.  Summing up with 
the hardness property the embrittlement of the weld by laser rapid heating is very 
significant.  Figure 3 shows the SEM photos of the rupture.  The GTAW weld has 
better ductility and the rupture is ductile trans-crystalline fracture.  The uniform and 
fine cavitation structure is resulted from the dendritic structure of the weld.  On the 
other hand, the rupture is brittle intergranular fracture and this is caused by the 
microvoid nucleation and coalescence at inclusions or second phase particles located 
along grain boundaries.   
The residual measured by the X-ray diffraction method is shown in Figure 4.  
Both compressional and extensional residual stresses are significantly found in GTAW.  
This is due to the more extensive uneven temperature distribution.  Only lower 
and Engineering, vol. A293, pp. 112-119, 2000. 
[11] USC 2J-F1042-3-8 WP 050 00, Tail Cone Repair, p. 122.12, c. 22, March 2008. 
[12] ASTM E8M-04, “Standard Test Method for Tension Testing of Metallic 
Materials,” ASTM International. 
[13] ASTM E1426-98, “Standard Test Method for Determining the Effective Elastic 
Parameter for X-ray Diffraction Instrumentation Measurement of Residual 
Stress”, ASTM International. 
 
Figure 1 Sample size for tensile tests. 
 
Figure 2 Metallurgical photos of the weldments. (left: GTAW, right: Nd:YAG laser welding) 
Figure 3 SEM photos of the rupture. (left: GTAW, right: Nd:YAG laser welding) 
附件 1 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
計畫編號 NSC 97-2221-E-214 -002 
計畫名稱 超音波薄膜微探頭與化學感測元件之研製(I) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
吳士傑 義守大學機動系助理教授 
會議時間地點 Aug. 25-29 2009, Berlin Germany 
會議名稱 Thermac 2009 Berlin 
發表論文題目 
MECHANICAL PROPERTIES OF HASTELLOY X 
SUPERALLOY AFTER GTAW AND ND-YAG LASER 
WELDING 
 
一、參加會議經過 
Thermac是材料研究領域兩年一度的盛事，有來自數十國家近千人參予，論
文內容涵蓋金屬、陶瓷、生醫奈米材料及其他先進材料之檢測與製程。Thermac 
2009 Berlin會議地點在 MARITIM Hotel Berlin ，位於柏林市中心區。本人於
Aug 23搭乘華航班機至香港轉 Lufthansa航班到 Frankfurt，再轉機於 23日深夜
抵柏林。 
次日到會場報報並領取資料，同行亦有義大材料系同仁、中山大學及台大材
料系團隊。今年 Plenary Lecture分別為 Professor Akihisa Inoue, President Tohoku 
University, Japan "Recent Progress in Bulk Metallic Glasses in Sendai Group"及
Professor Eduard Arzt, Director Leibniz Institute for New Materials, Germany 
"Bio-Inspired Functional Surfaces: Adhesion Through Fibrillar Microstructure" 本人
因數屆會議皆有參加，所以主辦單位將論文列為 Invited Paper，口頭報告時間為
Aug 26 10:40-11:00AM。同 Session 有來自英國 Univ. Manchester 的 Prof. P. 
J.Withers ，他在 X-ray diffraction stress measurement 有相當多的論文發表 ，能
有機會就近請教實屬難得。 
