1. Introduction 
Fiber networks provide high-bandwidth long-distance transmission and a low transmission 
error rate. Wavelength Division Multiplexing (WDM) [1] can divide a single fiber into multiple 
channels, and transmit the different rates in different channels. It is also likely to be widely used 
in systems ranging from local and metropolitan area networks to the backbone of the Next 
Generation Internet. A Multicast scheme demands simultaneous transmission of messages from 
the source to a set of destinations [2]. The routing and wavelength assignment (RWA) problem in 
WDM multicasting networks is studied in order to minimize the call blocking probability (CBP) 
given a certain number of channels. The routing solutions in multicast can be categorized as 
lightpath-based, light-tree-based [3] and ring-tree-based schemes [4]. In the lightpath-based 
solution, the links between the transmitting nodes and receiving nodes must establish their own 
lightpath. This scheme wastes network resources because many transmitters are utilized to send 
one package. The light-tree-based solution with Cross-connect (OXC) is a virtual topology of 
one-to-many multicasting, and the popular topology is Steiner Minimal Tree (SMT) [5]. It does 
not require the optical-electrical transformation to copy the signal, and can save the 
transformation by the O-E-O (Optical-Electrical-Optical) switches. We previously proposed the 
Ring-Tree-based RWA (RTRWA) algorithm that adopts the ring-tree to connect the multicast 
session members (MSM) for multipoint-to-multipoint multicast communication [4]. Simulation 
results show that the RTRWA scheme can increase the network throughput, and has a lower call 
blocking probability (CBP) than light-tree for different scenarios, especially for a large session 
size. However, the RTRWA algorithm wastes the bandwidth when the channel utilization for one 
connection is low because of the characteristic of reservation-based algorithm.  
The TWDM [6, 7] is a solution for low channel utilization. It increases the bandwidth of the 
fiber networks; and with TDM, a channel is divided into many slots. The unoccupied slots not 
can be assigned to different data at different times. The torus topology [8, 9] is proposed for 
using TDM on a WDM system. This system is based on the optical add-drop multiplexer 
(OADM). WDM channels are assumed to be slotted and synchronized; each fixed-size slot 
accommodates on one channel for the transmission of one packet. This work utilizes the torus 
topology to enhance the RTRWA algorithm.   
This work proposes the Torus Topology Conversion-Two-hop virtual rings routing-EAC 
wavelength assignment algorithm (TTCA-TVRR-EAC) based on TWDM to enhance the 
RTRWA algorithm. The TTCA-TVRR-EAC algorithm has three steps: (1) torus topology 
conversion algorithm, (2) TVRR algorithm and (3) EAC algorithm for wavelength assignment 
and scheduling. First, the TTCA algorithm converts the real network to a two-hop torus [8, 9] 
topology, and each row (column) has a virtual ring to connect the nodes in a row (column). The 
torus network is constructed by n×m (n rows and m columns) with n+m virtual rings. The 
characteristic of two-hop torus topology is that the transmission from source to destination 
occurs at most in two virtual rings (one row or/and one column) for the TVRR algorithm. This 
virtual rings topology can apply TWDM to reduce the wastage of bandwidth. TWDM combines 
the merits of using WDM and TDM: with WDM, data can be transmitted via different channels 
at the same time. This work uses TDM for transmission schedules and WDM for wavelength 
assignments. The TWDM has two phases: the control phase and the data phase. The token is 
adopted in the control phase before data transmission. When a node receives the token, it can 
execute the TVRR-EAC algorithm; otherwise, it can only receive and pass packets. When a node 
has the token, it runs the EAC algorithm to reserve the time slots, and the information is 
broadcast to all other nodes in the network. The node then releases the token to the next node and 
enters the data phase immediately on releasing the token. According to the TTCA, the connection 
established by the TVRR from the source to the destination passes through two rings if they are 
not on the same row. The EAC algorithm [10] is then used to find the earliest available channel 
for wavelength assignment, and selects suitable slots to be reserved to transmit data based on the 
Output: A torus network ),,( '' REVG =  //The torus network 'G has V nodes, 'E links and 
R rings 
 i=0 
 x=0 
A[i] //A[i] is the array presented that the ith node is selected or not 
 While (A[N-1] is True)  
  If (A[i] is False and i <= N-n-1) 
   A[i] is the source of the session 
The source searches n-1 nodes, k1,k2,…, and kn-1 by the shortest path algorithm 
and set A[k1], A[k2],…, and A[kn-1] False  
These nodes are selected to T[x][y] where x is the xth session and y is the yth 
nodes in this session 
x++ 
Establish a ring path connected all selected nodes by RTRWA algorithms from G 
and store in R 
  Else if (A[i] is False) 
A[] array is searched to find all non-selected nodes 
These nodes are selected to T[x][y] where x is the xth session and y is the yth 
nodes in this session 
x++ 
Establish a ring path connected all non-selected nodes by RTRWA algorithms 
from G and store in R 
  Else 
   i++ 
 i=0 
 While (i<n) 
Select the ith node of each session to establish a ring path by RTRWA algorithm from 
G and store in R 
 
Lemma 1: The time complexity of the algorithm TTCA is O(NdN). 
Proof: The first While loop is used to select nodes of each session to establish rings of each row. 
The time complexity of RTRWA algorithm is O(dN), where d is the maximum degree of nodes 
and the time complexity of the first While loop is O(NdN). The second While loop is used to 
select the ith node of each session to establish the ring of the ith column, and the time complexity 
is also O(NdN). The time complexity of TTCA algorithm is O(NdN) which is the sum of the first 
and the second While loop. ■ 
 
z TVRR-EAC Algorithm 
The flowchart of the TVRR-EAC algorithm is shown in Fig. 2, and is described as follows:  
Step 1 Obtain the source node X and the destination node Y 
Step 2 Are X and Y on the same row or the same column?  
2.1 If X and Y are on the same row or the same column, then transmission is one-hop. Go 
to Step 4  
2.2 If X and Y are neither on the same row nor the same column, then transmission is 
two-hop. Go to Step 3  
Step 3 Obtain the intermediate node of the two-hop pair  
Step 4 Obtain the routing path between X and Y  
4.1 If the routing path is available, then go to the next step  
4.2 If the routing path is not available  
4.2.1 If it is one-hop, then it is blocked  
When a node is ready for transmission, it uses the EAC algorithm to find a suitable channel. 
When the selection is assured, the table is updated, and the information is broadcast to every 
access node. During the control phase, the node makes requests of transmission, selects the 
channel and determines the routing path when it receives the token. The nodes transmit the data 
during the data phase. Every node has a Channel Available Time Table and a Slots Allocation 
Table, shown in Fig. 3, to select the available channels and allocate data slots. Channel_ID is the 
number of the channel; Start_Node is the source node of data transmission; End_Node is the 
destination node; Start_Slot is the starting time slot of this transmission, and End_Slot is the 
ending time of the transmission. Node 1 to Node 1−N  denote the number of nodes in the 
network. Slot 0 to Slot 1−M  are the time slots. When the available channel is selected, each 
node is filled between the start and end slots that it uses. The filled information includes the 
source node, destination node and the selected channel number.  
For example, the networks have C  channels and N  nodes, 1−C  channels are data 
channels used for message transmission, and the remaining channel is the control channel used to 
exchange global information among nodes regarding the message to be transmitted. The token in 
the control channel is transferred in an order of nodes {0, 1, 2, 5, 9, 8, 12, 13, 11, 10, 3, 4, 6, 7} 
in NSFNet and nodes {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 9, 13, 12, 16, 17, 23, 22, 21, 20, 19, 18, 10, 14, 15, 11, 8, 6, 
5} in USANet [4].  
When a node receives the token, it executes the reservation algorithm; otherwise, it only 
receives and transmits packets. When a node has the token, it consults the Channel Available 
Time Table to find the earliest available channel. The used time slots of each node on the path are 
then reserved by fitting in the Slots Allocation Table. After the reservation, the information of the 
Channel Available Time Table and the Slots Allocation Table are broadcast to the other nodes in 
the network. The node then releases the token to the next node. When a node releases the token, 
it enters the data phase immediately.  
 
Channel_ID Start_Node End_Node Start_Slot End_Slot
0 6 12 1 15 
1 10 11 1 3 
2 4 13 1 11 
3 2 5 1 2 
(a)  
 … Slot5 Slot6 Slot7 
Node0     
Node1     
Node2  (2,12,3) (2,12,3) (2,12,3) 
 
 .. Slot11 Slot12 
Node0    
Node1  (2,12,3) (2,12,3) 
Node2    
(b) 
Fig. 3 (a) Channel Available Time Table and (b) part of Slots Allocation Table for the NSFNet  
 
3. Simulation Results 
The system performance of the TTCA is compared with that of both RTRWA and SMT in 
terms of CBP, DUC, mean maximum transmission time and channel utilization of each multicast 
session for different channels, request rates and session sizes in both NSFNet and USANet.  
We assume that all transmitters and all receivers are tunable. So the transceivers of the 
source nodes and the destination nodes can be tuned to the same channel by the wavelength 
              
(b) 
 
Fig. 5 Call Blocking Probability vs. Request Rate with different session sizes for channel=64 in 
(a) NSFNet, and (b) USANet  
 
Fig. 5 shows the CBP of different session sizes and the number of channels is 64 in different 
network topologies. The results are the same as those in NSFNet. When the request rate is lower 
than 4, the TTCA with 16 channels has greater CBP than the SMT with 32 channels, while the 
TTCA with 32 channels has greater CBP than the SMT with 64 channels. With increasing request 
rate, the CBP of the TTCA with 16 channels is even better than that of the SMT with 32 channels, 
while the CBP of the TTCA with 32 channels is better than that of the SMT with 64 channels. 
The CBP can be reduced 7% to 18% more than that of RTRWA. 
The DUC between TTCA and RTRWA can be defined as follows:  
DUC=(CBP of RTRWA-CBP of TTCA)×Request Connection…………………(1)  
In Fig. 6, the difference of user capacity (DUC) between TTCA and RTRWA in NSFNet and 
USANet are shown. Under the same request rates, TTCA can allow more users to transmit data 
than RTRWA. Under RTRWA, each node in the same MGM is used for a certain connection. 
Before the connection is finished, all nodes are held with no service provided for the other 
connections. This limits the user capacity. Under TTCA, when nodes are not in use for a 
connection, the channels of the nodes can be used to provide for other connections to transmit 
data. This increases its user capacity. The DUC between TTCA and RTRWA is getting large as 
the session size increases. It can be obviously seen that TTCA can accept much more users than 
RTRWA. It means, TTCA makes more efficient use of the available channels and increases the 
throughput of the network.  
 
(a) 
                
(b) 
 
Fig. 6 Difference of user capacity between TTCA and RTRWA with different channels for 
session size=10 in (a) NSFNet, and (b) USANet  
assigned by EAC algorithm. The final algorithm was developed according to our proposed 
project completely. We designed a simulation program by OPNet and compared with RTRWA 
and SMT algorithm. The simulation results showed that the TTCA-TVRR-EAC can improve the 
call blocking probability and the channel utilization. These two parameters are very important for 
network performance because more connection could be established. We also reach the predict 
goals for the people training, research, application and country developing. Participate in 
personnel used OPNet to design a WDM network model to simulate in different network 
topologies. During designing the WDM network model, we must understand in depth what the 
RWA, TDMA and network topology are. On the another hand, we had published a journal 
paper, ”A Novel Ring-Tree-based Routing and Wavelength Assignment Algorithm for 
multicasting in DWDM Optical Mesh Networks”, to Information Science, and a conference 
paper to isccsp 2008. For application, we guide a team of university students to use this 
algorithm to analyze the throughput of online game. In the future we also will be apply to 
different network throughput, such as online meeting and vedio-on-demand. These simulation 
results are very important for next generation high speed network communication.  
References 
[1] I.P. Kaminow et al., “A wideband all-optical WDM network,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in 
Communications, Vol.14, No.5, pp. 780-799, June 1996.  
[2] L. Sahasrabubuddhe and B. Mukherjee, “Light trees: optical multicasting for improved performance 
in wavelength routed networks,” IEEE Communications Magazine, Vol. 37, No. 2, pp. 67-73, Feb. 
1999.  
[3] Z. Ying and D. Sidhu, “An analysis comparing light-tree and lightpath in wavelength routed optical 
networks,” 26th Annual IEEE Conference on Local Computer Networks, pp. 486-487, Tampa U.S.A, 
Nov. 2001.  
[4] I.S. Hwang, S.N. Lee and C.J. Liang, “A QoS-based HRWA multicast scheme with resource 
constraint on WDM mesh networks”, Photonic Network Communications, Vol. 13, pp. 1-12, Jan. 
2007.  
[5] S. Ramanathan, “Multicast tree generation in networks with asymmetric link,” IEEE/ACM 
Transactions on Networking, Vol. 4, No. 4, pp. 558-568, Aug. 1996.   
[6] G.P. Liu, K.Y. Lee and H.F. Jordan, “TDM hypercube and TWDM mesh optical interconnections”, 
IEEE Conference on Global Telecommunications, Vol. 3, pp. 1953-1957, San Francisco U.S.A, Dec. 
1994.  
[7] M.S. Borella and B. Mukherjee, “Efficient scheduling of nonuniform packet traffic in a WDM/TDM 
local lightwave network with arbitrary transceiver tuning latencies”, IEEE Journal on Selected 
Areas in Communications, Vol. 14, pp. 923-934, June 1996.  
[8] X. Yuan, R. Melhem and R. Gupta, “Performance of multihop communications using logical 
topologies on optical torus networks,” 7th IEEE International Conference on Computer 
Communications and Networks, pp. 494-501, Lafayette U.S.A, Oct. 1998.  
[9] A. Bianco, M. Guido and E. Leonardi, “Incremental scheduling algorithms for WDM/TDM 
networks with arbitrary tuning latencies”, IEEE Transactions on Communications, Vol. 51, No. 3, 
pp. 464-475, Mar. 2003.  
[10] I.S. Hwang, S.N. Lee and Y.P. Kuo, “Packet rescheduling in real-time using Token-passing protocol 
in a WDM ring access network”, Tamkang Journal of Science and Engineering, Vol. 9, No. 2, pp. 
107-114, June 2006.  
 
  
 
