  
報告內容 
 
 
英文關鍵詞:Atomic Resolution tomography;big-bang theory; channeling theory 
英文摘要 ABSTRACT 
The purpose of this project is to develop theory and methodology to reconstruct atomic 
resolution tomography: 3 dimensional atomic structure via analysis of the exit wave along single 
projection. The atomic resolution tomography can be realized from single projection by 
determining the projected potential and the geometry of the exit surace of the sample. “Big-Bang 
theory” has been developed and tested for the simulated exit waves of wedge Au crystal and 
graphene to demonstrate reconstruction of atomic resolution tomography.  Through the analysis 
of exit wave using big-bang theory, the projected potential and the “true” z height (coordinates) 
of an atomic column can be determined and quantified.  The position of “z” height is the 
position where  the exit wave starts to free-propagate or emits. 
 
Finding the position “z”  where exit wave emits from the sample exit surface using the Big-
Bang theory is in analogy to find the position of star where the light emits and travel through the 
space in astrophysics. In the big-bang theory the exit wave can be decomposed into many Fourier 
components to find the convergence of the phase angle which gives the original point where the 
original wave emits from the atomic column which is equivalent to find time zero of big-bang in 
the same way as Hubble did for the star. 
 
 The big-band theory in fact originates from the so-called “channeling theory”. In order to 
interpret the amplitude and phase of the exit wave in terms of mass and position of the projected 
atom columns, one has to “invert” the dynamical scattering of the electrons in the object so as to 
obtain a starting structure which can the be used as a “seed” for further quantitative structure 
refinement. Based on the “channeling ” theory we will show that plotting the complex values of 
the pixels in the complex plane will yield for each column a circle (the Argand plot) from which 
in principle the number of atoms in the column as well as its vertical position at entrance and exit 
plane can be deduced with single atom sensitivity. 
  
前言 
 
High resolution TEM has played an important role to resolve the atomic structure of 
materials in the past years. However, due to presence of the lens aberration and dynamical 
scattering, the atomic structure is seriously encoded in the images. Furthermore, the HRTEM 
image provides little information on the composition and gives only two dimensional projected 
structural information.  Direct interpretation of 3-dimensional structure is not trival. In this 
research, we present a methodology: big-bang theory and channeling theory to obtain 
quantitative three dimensional atomic structure from two dimensional high resolution electron 
microscopy data including the number of atoms in the atom columns and surface roughness. 
 
To quantitatively analyze 3 dimensional structure from an exit wave, one must determine 
the geometry of the exit surface down to atomic resoultion and quantify the number of atoms 
along an atomic column. This method we developed in this research involves analysis of 
behavior of propagating exit wave. The geometry of the exit surface and true wave where the 
electron starts emitting from the surface can be determined using two approaches both based on 
the channeling theory. 
 
First, If the wave has a sharp peak then propagating wave will show a circle in Argand plot. 
This circle is called defocus circle. All the defocus circles will have a common reference wave 
near vacuum wave.  The true wave and the position where the wave starts free propagation is 
given by a diametrical rule which is derived from channeling theory and will be discussed in 
detail in the following paragaphs. 
 
Second, In the big-bang theory the exit wave can be decomposed into many Fourier 
components to find the convergence of the phase angle which gives the original point where the 
original wave emits from the atomic column which is equivalent to find time zero of big-bang in 
the same way as Hubble did for the star. 
 
Through this research there are two papers has been published and one paper intended for 
NATURE is in preparation. 
 
 
（一）研究目的 
 
The direct observation of a three-dimensional (3D) atomic structure and morphology of matter is 
of great interest in research across a broad range. In general, the TEM provides 2D projections of 
the 3D structure of the sample. Assessing the internal structure and 3D morphology of 
nanocrystals is accomplished with electron tomography analysis. The high-resolution (~1 nm3) 
electron tomography experiment requires acquisition of more than one hundred projections of a 
sample rotated about one or two axes. The quality and resolution of the reconstructed 3D object 
depends strongly on the number of projections, taken over a wide angular range (e.g., ±75º) of 
the specimen. The measurement requires a special sample holder for electron tomographic data 
acquisition and therefore cannot be performed using a typical TEM sample stage. Using coherent 
electron diffraction tomography, we have experimentally determined the morphology of the 
MgO nanocrystal at ~8-nm resolution from 3D diffraction pattern about a (200) reflection of the 
  
 
In Section 3, we discuss the advantages of the representation of the exit wave in an Argand plot 
and how it can be used to deduce the number of atoms, the absorption, the defocus and even the 
effect of an insufficient number of beams in multislice calculations. 
 
In section 4, the theory of big-bang will be discussed and preliminary analysis of 3-D  sturcure 
of grpahene will be presented. 
 
In section 5, we show the result of atomic resolution tomography from a simulated wedge Au 
will be presented and discussed. 
 
  
where a represents the column dependent width. For most cases, this expression is sufficiently 
only when very heavy atoms are involved, the approximation will break down for layer 
thicknesses. Other higher states will become more important as the thickness increases, the atom 
column gets heavier or the distance between adjacent atom columns decreases. Following from 
Eq.(1) the amplitude and phase of the interacting wave are 
 
(4) 
and 
 (5) 
From Eq.(4), it follows that the amplitude is peaked at the atom column position and that it 
varies periodically with depth. From Eq.(5), it follows that the phase, which is a constant over 
the column, is proportional to the average mass density of the column. The phase linearly 
increases with depth. The amplitude can be used to determine the positions of the atom columns 
and the phase can be used to determine the composition of the atom column. 
 
（三）研究方法 
 
Defocus circle and Argand Plot: 
 
A convenient way to visualize the effect of electrons passing through a column is by plotting for 
each pixel of the exit wave located at a projected atom column position in an Argand plot. This is 
a representation in which each pixel is plotted as a point in a complex plane with its x-coordinate 
corresponding to the real pixel value and the y-coordinate corresponding to the imaginary pixel 
value. The position of the pixel at the center of the column position is most sensitive to the 
scattering factors, the Debye-Waller factor and absorption. It turns out to be more convenient to 
shift the exit wave over a vector corresponding to the entrance wave so as to yield a fingerprint 
of the electron interaction only. Moreover, from Eq.(1), the real and imaginary of the interacting 
wave are given by 
 (6) 
and 
  (7) 
From these equations, it follows that an Argand plot of a wedge-shape structure containing 
different thicknesses is expected to be a circular locus which starts at the origin and centers on 
the x-axis. The point (0; 0) of the origin represents the scattering wave in case of no atoms (zero 
thickness). Substi- tuting Eq.(2) and (3) into Eq.(6) and (7), yields that the radius of the circle 
should be identical for all atom types. The constant angular increment corresponds to an extra 
atom in the column which is different for each atom type. The scattering waves are simulated for 
Au and Si[100] (parameters can be found in [7]) using the channelling theory. This universal 
radius for all atom types comes as a surprise, but is a consequence of the fact that a shaper s-state 
  
 
 
Fig. 1 (a) Simulation of the effect of defocus (from 150Å to +150Å) for an atom column 
containing 5 Au atoms leading to an extra defocus circle. (b) Defocus circles shown for different 
numbers of atoms in a column. All circles go through a common reference point on the Argand 
plot. 
 
In order to make the calculations more robust, we will average the neighboring pixels around the 
column position, or in other words, including all pixels in the column. Then the averaged 
defocused exit wave becomes 
 
(12) 
with R0 the radius of the average circular area. For small defocus values, ελ/π< 4a2, the averaged 
defocused exit wave is approximately equal to 
(13) 
and for large defocus values, ελ/π>> 4a2, it approaches to 
 
(14) 
For small defocus values, the averaged defocused exit wave contains two terms: the first term is 
the wave function without defocus and the second term incorporates the effect of defocus. As 
shown in Fig.1(a), the defocus points lie on the curve with its curvature along the direction of the 
starting point (1; 0), the incident plane wave, to the point that the exit wave is not defocused (ε= 
0). For large defocus values, Eq.(14) approaches to (1; 0) also along the same curve. This 
procedure can be repeated for every atom column. In Fig.1(b), it is shown that the defocus curve 
of each thickness gives an extra circle on the Argand plot. From this figure, it is clear that the 
defocus circles for atom columns containing different number of atoms pass through a common 
point and the common point. If the common reference point is known, a straight line from this 
point through the center of the defocus circle intercepts the curve at zero defocus. This procedure 
can be used to determine the defocus values of each atom column by calculating the distance 
  
Fig. 2(a) The phase of the exit wave of graphene. (b) the FFT pattern of exit wave. The exit wave 
was decomposed into serval component in frequency domain with ring filters.  
  
In this case, the exit wave was decomposed into 5 frequency components. The decomposed exit 
wave was defocused to some distance and the relatioship of the phase angle vs focal distance f is 
given in the fig. 3 for six atomic columns which are marked as blue, gree and red open cirlces. 
The relatioship of the phase angle vs focal distance f is called Big-Bang plot which are given as 
insets correspondingly. There are 5 lines in each big-bang plot which corresponds to 5 different 
frequences. The phase from different frequecy components must converge to a common point 
which gives the position of zero focus fo (“true” position in z height) and eigen-potential of 
atomic column. The true focus positions fo and the eigen-potential φo of the atomic column 
(“mass” and number of atoms) can be deduced from the common intersection of 5 lines.   
Finding the position “z”  where exit wave emits from the sample exit surface using the Big-
Bang theory is in analogy to find the position of star where the light emits and travel through the 
space in astrophysics. The slope in the big-bang plot is equivalent to the speed of the star. The 
intersection is equivalent the point of time zero. 
 
 
Fig. 3 shows the phase of a grpahene exit wave. The atomic column containing one single atom 
were classified into three groups: blue, green and red. Their corresponding big-bang plots are 
given as insets. The true focus positions fo and the eigen-potential φo of the atomic column 
  
 
 
Fig. 5(a) a retrieved  defocus map obtained from a simulated EW of wedge-shape Au structure 
with atom columns containing 1 to 5 atoms. The side-view of the structure is shown in the insert 
of (a). (b) The defocus circles for every atom column. Each atom column is defocused from 30Å 
to +30Å. 
 
 
 
 
After analysis of the optimum solution of (φo, fo), the atomic resolution of Au wedge crystal can 
be reconstructed. The result is shown in fig. 6. 
 
 
Fig. 6 the reconstructed atomic resolution tomography for Au wedge crystal. 
 
   
 
Our method has been demonstrated work well in the simulated exit wave and has been published 
two papers. We are preparing the work for possible publication in NATURE with the 
experimental case of Graphene and BN. 
 
FEMMS 2009 出國報告 
陳福榮 
 
9 月 27 日由台灣啓程至日本參加第 12 屆先進材料電鏡會議(Frontier 
Electron Microscopy in Materials Science, FEMMS)。 飛機抵達福岡機
場後，轉地鐵至博多車站，搭快速火車到佐世保，博多車站雖是個小車站，
然而日本人將之規劃極有特色，與周遭地下商場結合，吸引諸多人潮。 
 
至佐世保途中，遇見亦前往開會之美國及韓國學者三人，美國學者是
從阿岡國家實驗室來的，最近他的實驗室剛安裝了世界上第一部色差修正
電鏡。 韓國學者則是從首爾大學的一對師生，在兩小時的火車上，大家都
很健談，從科學的發展聊到各國之經濟現況。 
 
抵達佐世保站下車後，美景乍現眼前，美麗的長橋一座，橫跨直流入
海之長河，數人用讚嘆心情，悠閒步過長橋，來到會議地點伊斯豪堡(Huis 
Ten Bosch)。此時已是午後 3:10 入眼即是荷風建築。到達接待處，搭上接
駁車至下榻之荷蘭旅館。會議註冊人員與旅店接待早已久候我們的來臨。
註冊後，進入房間，從窗外望出盡見荷式建築環繞河岸。有遊船數隻穿梭
其中，猶如置身荷蘭。 
 
晚上大會在停靠港邊的一艘中古世紀的大船內舉辦接待晚宴。幾乎與
會之學者大部份都已到齊，幾番寒喧，配合美酒與美食，互相交換各實驗
室近來之研究成果，氣氛極為融洽。 
 
這一次與會學者將近兩百多人，邀請演講者約有 35 人，議程包括:先
進色差及像差修正電鏡之近況、應用和先進之理論發展。整個會議之主題
分別集中於原子分辨率之能譜發展及應用，和三維之成像。很多學者，尤
其是 Ijima 實驗室的 Dr. K. Suenaga 顯示單原子的電子能量損失譜在分析
單壁碳管和滲雜的單原子分析。 在成像學方面，由於像差修正電鏡提供了
不僅更高空間解析率及高訉築比的影像，再接下來更重要的則是原子影像
之定量和取得三維空間之原子結構。我的演講排在美國國家電鏡中心主任
Dr. Uli Dahman 之後，報告之題目是＂原子分辨率之三維立體成像影學＂，
總共是 30 分鐘的報告。結束後，很多學者的反應都認為這方向是繼硬體發
展後，必須要走的方向。 
 
在會議期間遇見了從比利時安特衛普大學來的 Dirk Van Dyck 教授和
由柏克萊的 Christian Kisielowski 博士一起討論有關更進一步之發展和
AsCA＇09 亞洲結晶學研討會 出國報告 
陳福榮 
 
10 月 21 日由台灣啓程搭華航前往日本參加 2009 年亞洲結晶學會議。
抵達後搭車前往北京市京儀大酒店。會議從 22 日開始至 25 日結束，此次
我的邀請演講被安排在 25 日的早上，演講時間總共是 30 分鐘。 
 
10 月 22 日註冊完後，前往北京大學電子物理系，與彭練矛教授討論他
最近在奈米電子方面的一些成果，當晚和彭教授共進晚餐。 
 
10 月 23 日則與李志浩教授受邀至北京航天大學與他們討論電子光學
電鏡儀器之研發，北航共有 5位教授參與討論，會後還希望我們的研發團
隊幫忙他們做電子槍。 用完午飯後，我們受邀至他們模擬計算之團隊與他
們討論並給于指導。 
 
11 月 24 日則受邀到清華大學與他們幾位新聘教授討論未來在生物電
鏡方面之研究。之後，我亦到醫學院找隋森芳教授討論在冷凍電鏡方面之
技術合作。 
 
11 月 25 日早上我是第二位邀請演講者，會議結束後即整裝返台，返抵
家門已是零晨 1:45，還得趕緊準備週一上課資料。 
 
 
無研發成果推廣資料 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件 正在撰寫商用軟體 
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 6 0 100%  
博士生 3 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之
成果如辦理學術活
動、獲得獎項、重要
國際合作、研究成果
國際影響力及其他協
助產業技術發展之具
體效益事項等，請以
文字敘述填列。) 
此計畫之研究成果促使我們實驗室與比利時安特衛普大學 Professor Van Dyck, 
美國柏克萊國家實驗室 Dr. Kisielowski,及牛津大學 Professor Angus 等密切
合作,估計將會開創電子顯微學的一個新領域。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
