 2
SUMMARY 
It has been shown by Chang [1] that a load discontinuity at the end of an impulse will result in 
an extra impulse and hence an extra displacement if a step-by-step integration method is used to 
yield the shock response. This extra displacement leads to amplitude distortion in the displacement 
response. To overcome this difficulty, three remedies are proposed. The first remedy is to solve the 
momentum equation of motion instead of the force equation of motion in the step-by-step solution 
of the shock response, where an external momentum is used in the solution of the momentum 
equation of motion. Thus, the discontinuity will automatically disappear since the external 
momentum is a resultant of time integration of the external force. The second remedy is to perform 
a single small time step immediately upon termination of the applied impulse while the other time 
steps can still be conducted by using the time step determined from general considerations. This is 
because that the extra impulse caused by a load discontinuity at the end of an impulse is almost 
linearly proportional to the step size. Finally, the third remedy is to employ the average value of the 
two different values at the integration point of load discontinuity to replace the use of one of them 
for loading input. The basic motivation of this change originates from the concept of no loading 
input error associated with the integration point of load discontinuity. The feasibility of the three 
remedies are analytically explained and numerically illustrated. 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 The shock response from a short pulse is a special class of the dynamic analysis [2,3,4]. 
Although the loading time of the impulse is relatively short it might still play an important role in 
the design of certain classes of structures. The classical method to solve differential equations of 
motion or Duhamel’s integral [3,4] is often employed to compute the response to an impulse for a 
linear elastic system. However, they are not applicable to a nonlinear system. Hence, an integration 
method [5~15] is used to solve a nonlinear system alternatively. In the step-by-step solution of 
shock response from an impulse, it was experienced that a very small time step may be needed 
although the impulse is in a simple form, such as a rectangular impulse or a rising triangular 
impulse. This difficulty has been investigated [1] and it was shown that the discontinuity at the end 
of an impulse is responsible for using a very small time step. This is because the discontinuity at the 
end of an impulse will lead to an extra impulse, and then an extra displacement is introduced in 
addition to the correct displacement in the step-by-step solution of the shock response to the 
impulse. 
 4
value at the end of the impulse and the size of integration time step. Thus, the extra impulse is 
linearly proportional to the step size. Consequently, it is natural to use a small time step for a 
complete step-by-step integration procedure so that the extra impulse can be reduced. However, the 
time step used in the step-by-step integration for overcoming the difficulty caused by load 
discontinuity may be very small and is much smaller than that required by general considerations. 
Thus, the computational efforts are significantly increased in a time history analysis. 
 
REMEDY 1 --- USING MOMENTUM EQUATION OF MOTION 
 In structural dynamics, the equation of motion for a system is formulated based on the 
dynamic equilibrium of force, which includes four types of force and are the elastic spring force, 
damping force, inertial force and external force. As a result, it can be expressed as 
 
        mu t cu t ku t f t       (2) 
 
where m  is the mass, c  is the viscous damping coefficient, k  is the stiffness and f  is the 
external force;  u t ,  u t  and  u t  are the displacement, velocity and acceleration. 
 
 It is generally recognized that the maximum displacement response to an impulse mainly 
depends upon the total amount of the applied impulse, i.e., external momentum, and is almost not 
affected by the shape of the loading impulse. Hence, it is very promising to obtain the shock 
response by considering external momentum directly. For this purpose, there is a great motive to 
construct the governing equation of motion from the dynamic equilibrium of momentum. Similar to 
the derivation of equation of motion, there are four types of momentum and are the elastic spring 
momentum, damping momentum, inertial momentum and external momentum. Hence, the 
momentum equation of motion is found to be 
 
        mu t cu t ku t f t      (3) 
 
where 
 
        
0 0
,
t t
u t u d f t f d         (4) 
 
 6
considered. The three different shapes of the impulses are shown in figure 3 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 Three different shapes of linear impulses 
 
 
The lumped mass and stiffness of the system are simply taken to be 10000m kg  and 10000k   
/N m . The natural frequency of the system is found to be 1 /rad sec . Thus, the period of the 
system 2  T sec . Since both 120/dt T   is smaller than 1/4, the three short pulses can be 
classified as impulses. 
 
The exact solution is theoretically obtained for comparison. Since 120/t T    for 0.1t    
is very small, the period distortion is insignificant based on accuracy consideration. In figures (3-a) 
and (3-b), the shock responses obtained from using the force equation of motion (F) with 0.05t   
and 0.1 sec  are unreliable while a reliable result can still be yielded by using the momentum 
equation of motion (M) with the time step as large as 0.3 t sec  . The inaccurate solutions 
obtained from (F) with 0.05t   and 0.1 sec  for the rising triangular and rectangular impulses 
are due to the load discontinuity at the end of the impulses. It is manifested from figure (3-c) that 
acceptable solutions can be obtained from the force equation of motion with 0.05t   and 
0.1 sec , and from the momentum equation of motion with 0.3 t sec  . This is because that there 
is no load discontinuity at the end of the descending triangular impulse and thus the use of the force 
equation of motion with 0.05t   and 0.1 sec  provides accurate results. It is important to find 
that the use of the momentum equation of motion with 0.3 t sec  , which is three times of the 
loading duration, still gives acceptable results for the three impulses. This implies that the 
momentum equation of motion can effectively capture the external momentum although the time 
 8
proportional to the step size, it is promising to perform a single small time step immediately upon 
the termination of the applied impulse while the other time steps can be still conducted by using the 
step size determined from general considerations. The basic concept of this remedy is illustrated in 
figure 5. 
 
 
 
Figure 5 Single small time step to overcome load discontinuity 
 
 
In this figure, a time step of t  is used for the complete step-by-step integration procedure 
except that the time step right after the end of the impulse is performed by using a small time step 
of t , where   might be chosen to be between 0 and 1. Thus, the extra impulse caused by the 
load discontinuity at the end of the impulse will be reduced from  12eiA q t   to  12eiA q t  , 
and then the relative amplitude error is reduced accordingly. It is apparent that the smaller the value 
of   is, the less the relative amplitude error is 
 
To confirm the feasibility of Remedy 2, the problem solved in the section of Remedy 1 is also 
used herein and the numerical results are plotted in figure 6. In general, the time step of 0.1t   
sec , which is equal to the loading duration, is used for the whole step-by-step integration procedure 
except that a small time step of  t  , where 1  , 0.1, and 0.01 are considered, is conducted 
for the time step right after the end of the impulse. In figure (6-a), the amplitude distortion is very 
significant for the case of 1  . This case is numerically equivalent to conducting step-by-step 
 10
found in figure (6-b) for the rectangular impulse. Unlike the numerical solutions found in figures 
(6-a) and (6-b), the shock responses to the descending triangular impulse are almost overlapped 
together for the cases of 1  , 0.1, and 0.01 as shown in figure (6-c). This is because that there is 
no load discontinuity at the end of the descending triangular impulse and thus it involves no extra 
amplitude distortion. 
 
Consequently, to overcome the load discontinuity occurred at the end of an impulse it is 
recommended to choose 0.01   or smaller for the single small time step in practice while the 
other time steps are determined from general considerations. This is because that the single small 
time step will lead to an insignificant amplitude distortion. 
 
REMEDY 3 --- USING AVERAGE VALUE OF LOAD 
DISCONTINUITY VALUES 
To elucidate the input error caused by the discontinuity at the end of an impulse, the possible 
arrangements of the input data for the impulse are sketched in figure 7. 
 
 
 
Figure 7 Input error caused by load discontinuity 
 
The impulse can be reliably captured if the line-connected segments at the integration points 
are taken as the sequence of ˆEFFG . However, it is impossible to input both data of F  and 
Fˆ  at an integration point. In general, the input data sequence of EFG   is adopted in practice 
 12
involves no extra computational efforts. The input sequences of EFG   and ˆFFG  are referred 
to as S1 and S2, respectively, while that of EZG   is considered as S3. 
 
 
Figure 9 Shock responses to SDOF system using Remedy 3 
 
The feasibility of Remedy 3 is also verified by the example considered for Remedy 1 and Remedy 2. 
 14
point of the load discontinuity. The feasibility of the three remedies is numerically confirmed. 
 
REFERENCES 
1. Chang, S.Y. 2003. “Accuracy of time history analysis of impulses,” Journal of Structural 
Engineering, ASCE, Vol. 129, No.3, 357-372. 
2. Belytschko, T., and Hughes, T.J.R. 1983. Computational methods for transient analysis, 
Elsevier Science Publishers B.V., North-Holland. 
3. Clough, R.W. and Penzien, J. 1993. Dynamics of structures, McGraw-Hill, Inc., International 
Editions. 
4. Chopra, A.N. 1997. Dynamics of structures, Prentice Hall, Inc., International Editions. 
5. Newmark, N.M. 1959. “A method of computation for structural dynamics.” Journal of 
Engineering Mechanics Division, ASCE, Vol. 85, pp. 67-94. 
6. Chang, S.Y. 1996. “A series of energy conserving algorithms for structural dynamics.” Journal 
of Chinese Institute of Engineers, Vol. 19, No. 2, pp. 219-230. 
7. Chang, S.Y., 1997. “Improved numerical dissipation for explicit methods in pseudodynamic 
Tests.” Earthquake Engineering and Structural Dynamics, 26, 917-929. 
8. Chang, S.Y., 2001. “Analytical study of the superiority of the momentum equations of motion 
for impulsive loads.” Computers & Structures, Vol. 79, No.15, pp.1377-1394 
9. Chang, S.Y., 2001. “Application of the momentum equations of motion to pseudodynamic 
testing.” Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society, Series A, 359 (1786), 1801-1827. 
10. Chang, S.Y., 2002. “Explicit pseudodynamic algorithm with unconditional stability.” Journal 
of Engineering Mechanics, ASCE, 128 (9), 935-947. 
11. Hilber, H.M., Hughes, T.J.R., and Taylor, R.L. 1977. “Improved numerical dissipation for time 
integration algorithms in structural dynamics.” Earthquake Engineering and Structural 
Dynamics, Vol. 5, pp. 283-292. 
12. Hilber, H.M., and Hughes, T.J.R. (1978). “Collocation, dissipation, and ‘overshoot’ for time 
integration schemes in structural dynamics.” Earthquake Engineering and Structural 
Dynamics, 6, 99-118. 
13. Houbolt, J.C. 1950. “A recurrence matrix solution for the dynamic response of elastic aircraft.” 
Journal of the Aeronautical Sciences, 17, 540-550. 
14. Bathe, K.J., and Wilson, E.L. 1973. “Stability and accuracy analysis of direct integration 
methods.” Earthquake Engineering and Structural Dynamics, 1, 283-291 
15. Tamma, K.K., Zhou, X. and Sha, D. 2001. “A theory of development and design of 
generalized integration operators for computational structural dynamics.” International 
 1
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期： 99 年 9 月 1 日 
一、參加會議經過 
本次會議於七月十九日辦理報到揭開序幕。並於七月二十日上午舉行歡迎會和開幕式，並隨即進
行了上午的專題演講以及論文的發表及討論。這次活動內容除了最主要的論文發表之外，大會還
安排有學生的論文競賽以及講習會，最後並將所有與會的論文集合成一片光碟片，以便對外提供
參考之用。 
二、與會心得 
由於這一研討會的場次非常眾多，因此會有相當多的演講同時進行。由於專長及興趣的關係，大
部份的時間都參與和非線性動態歷時分析等相關專題的聽講和討論。本人在此次會議中所發表的
論文題為 “A New Family of Explicit Time Integration Methods”。在此次的會議中，經由聽講及討論
的過程吸收了不少新的研究訊息，對於未來提供更明確的研究方向。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
四、建議 
這個大規模的學術發表會議不但可讓與會者從中獲得不少的新知，尤其是世界各國的最新研究趨
計畫編號 NSC 97－2221－E－027－036－MY2 
計畫名稱 結構物受衝擊載重之動態歷時反應研究(II） 
出國人員
姓名 張順益 
服務機構
及職稱 國立台北科技大學教授 
會議時間 99年 7月 19日至  99年 7月 23日 會議地點 澳洲，雪梨 (Sydney, Australia) 
會議名稱 
(中文)2010 第九屆世界計算力學暨第四界屆亞太計算力學會議 
(英文)2010 9th World Congress on Computational Mechanics and 4th Asia Pacific 
Congress on Computational Mechanics 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)新一族外顯式積分法 
(英文) A New Family of Explicit Time Integration Methods 
附件四 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
1. 獲邀為國際研討會委員 
   The  World Congress on Advances in Structural Engineering and 
Mechanics (2010) ， a member of the International Scientific 
Committee。 
2. 獲邀為中國土木水利工程學會編輯出版委員會委員 
3. 獲邀為國際期刊編輯委員 
   Editorial Board Member of＇Earthquakes and Structures, An 
International Journal＇. 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
申請人先前的研究發現逐步積分時，衝擊載重結束時的不連續將引起額外的振幅誤差。為
了克服此一困難，提出三種解決方法，除了先進行理論的探討之外，也進行一系列的實驗
驗證。 
一、 利用所發展的無條件穩定外顯式積分法來求解動量平衡運動方程式，這是因為動量
平衡運動方程式可直接克服衝擊載重結束時的不連續而避免引起額外的振幅誤差。 
二、 利用所發展的無條件穩定外顯式積分法來求解一般慣用的動力平衡運動方程式，並
在衝擊載重結束時進行一積分時間步長很小的逐步積分以減少因衝擊載重結束時不連續
所引起的額外振幅誤差。 
三、 利用所發展的無條件穩定外顯式積分法來求解動力平衡運動方程式，不同的是利用
衝擊載重結束時之不連續載重的平均來輸入以減少額外振幅誤差。 
此三種解決方法的可行性及優異性已充分的證實，並發表於國內外期刊。 
 
