射頻功率放大器元件於輸出端阻抗不匹配時之耐受力 
“Mismatching Susceptibility of RF Power Amplifier Devices＂ 
 
計畫編號：NSC95-2221-E-194-089 
執行期間：95年 8 月 1 日 至 96年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：吳建華 中正大學通訊工程學系助理教授 
 
一、 中文摘要 
對於手持行動通訊裝置來說，不經意
間，使用者的手即經常地會靠近天線端，如
此一來導致輸出端產生嚴重阻抗不匹配的
狀況，致使大部份發射出去的能量皆反射回
來。如果功率放大器晶片對於反射功率耐受
度不佳，此刻將發生功率放大器晶片局部燒
燬的情形。加強耐受度可從磊晶及製程、熱
分佈與控制、電晶體元件本身特性強化、保
護電路等方面著手。這些項目已有很多研
究，但在實際結果上仍無法對反射功率耐受
度作出有效的保障。此計畫係研究防制低頻
振盪電路，並製作射頻功率放大器模組。進
而實際進行輸出端阻抗不匹配狀況下，對於
反射功率耐受度之驗證。耐受度之最低要求
規格為在駐波比達到十二比一以上的輸出
端阻抗不匹配狀況下，射頻功率放大器依舊
無損壞之狀況。 
 
英文摘要 
Device Ruggedness is the major concern 
about the adoption of power amplifier module. 
A resistive network could be employed to 
stabilize the low frequency oscillation for the 
large periphery device, especially on the 
output stage. Not only the spurious emission 
being minimized, but also the robustness of 
power amplifier is strengthened as operating 
under severe mismatch condition (VSWR 
12:1). Such power chips were integrated with 
a logarithmic power detecting controller and 
functioned as a linearly closed-loop power 
controlled GSM/GPRS power amplifier 
module. It had demonstrated a highly robust 
behavior for all quad-band operations 
(GSM850, EGSM900, DCS1800, PCS1900). 
 
二、 計畫的緣由與目的 
 
For the past few years, several companies 
engaged in the development of GSMGPRS 
power amplifier module. Most of them 
focused on the smaller feature size and more 
added-functions (like band select or built-in 
power control loop). However, a major 
catastrophe for this application is the 
device/module burn-out due to poor 
robustness under severe impedance mismatch. 
Impedance mismatching on the antenna port is 
quite often happened to the handheld devices 
like mobile phones. Any reflected power from 
antenna will be directly fed in the output stage 
of the power amplifier chips. Since we cannot 
demand the users to be cautious at any time to 
keep away from touching the antenna, on the 
contrary, enhancing the ruggedness of power 
stage is requisite.  
Usually, device ruggedness under 
mismatch operation is considered as one of 
reliability issues. The reliability of Gallium 
Arsenide (GaAs) chip is determined by many 
factors including device layout, epi-layer 
properties and device fabrication processes. 
Across the industry almost without exception 
utilize an emitter passivation ledge to improve 
different bias voltages (3.3V, 3.8V and 4.2V) 
for three different output power stages 
(>34dBm, 15dBm, 8dBm). One piece of 
sample was placed in the -20oC chamber with 
nominal dc bias (3.8V) and RF input (3dBm), 
but with output port opening. This sample still 
survived after 24 hours stressing. Before 
applying the balanced network onto the GaAs 
power chips, the module occasionally failed 
under the mismatch stress even with the 
protection of the clapping circuits. All of 
robustness tests were implemented with Focus 
programmable tuner.  
 
 
Fig.1 Interior structure of a quad-band 
GSM/GPRS power amplifier module 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2 Linear power control characteristics of 
quad-band power amplifier module @915 
MHz 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 RF output spectrum of the quad-band 
power amplifier module @915MHz 
 
五、 結論 
 
A quad-band GSM/GPRS power amplifier 
module had been designed and manufactured 
with multi-chip module technology. With a 
built-in logarithmic closed-loop power control 
function, such module provides a good merit 
of easily programmable behavior. With the 
balanced resistors connected the feeds of base 
between each transistor cells (also for those of 
collector side), odd-mode oscillation 
disappear even at middle power output and the 
robustness also being assured under VSWR 
12:1. Not only depending on a reliable process 
and epi-growth, but also with a properly 
layout and balanced unit cell design, the 
burnout phenomena could be greatly 
suppressed. 
 
六、 自評 
 
This project had been studied on the unit 
cell design of power transistor. Odd-mode 
oscillation never happened. And the 
robustness had been enhanced. One of topic 
addressed in the proposal about the 
epi-structure design was partially studied. 
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
0.7 0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5
Vramp (V)
P
ou
t (
dB
m
)
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
■ 可申請專利  ■ 可技術移轉                                      日期：96年 10 月 31 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：射頻功率放大器元件於輸出端阻抗不匹配時之耐受力 
計畫主持人： 吳建華        
計畫編號： NSC 95-2221-E-194-089    學門領域：微電子 
技術/創作名稱 低頻奇模振盪抑制之射頻功率電晶體 
發明人/創作人 吳建華 
中文： 
加強耐受度可從磊晶及製程、熱分佈與控制、電晶體元件本身
特性強化、保護電路等方面著手。進一步對反射功率耐受度作出有
效的保障，可從防制低頻振盪電路著手。以此製作之射頻功率放大
器模組。對輸出端阻抗不匹配狀況下，反射功率耐受度可達駐波比
達到十二比一以上的輸出端阻抗不匹配狀況下，射頻功率放大器依
舊無損壞之狀況 
 
 
 
技術說明 
英文： 
Device Ruggedness is the major concern about the adoption of power 
amplifier module. A resistive network could be employed to stabilize 
the low frequency oscillation for the large periphery device, especially 
on the output stage. Not only the spurious emission being minimized, 
but also the robustness of power amplifier is strengthened as operating 
under severe mismatch condition (VSWR 12:1). 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
手機使用之射頻功率放大器模組 
技術特點 晶片電晶體佈局修改 
推廣及運用的價值 配合其它技術，強化改善不定時困擾之射頻功率放大器損壞現象。
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
Proceedings of Asia-Pacific Microwave Conference 2006 
Copyright 2006 IEICE 
Closed-Loop Power Control of Radio Frequency Power 
Amplifier Module with an on-Chip Embedded Power 
Detector 
Janne-Wha Wu, Sheng-Wen Chen, Ching-Wen Tang, and Ming-Guang Chen 
National Chung Cheng University, 168, Sec.1, Ta-Hsueh Rd., San-Hsing Village, Ming-
Hsiung Township, ChiaYi, 62145, Taiwan, ROC 
 Tel: +886-5-2720411 ext.33519, Fax: +886-5-2722702, E-mail: jwwu@ccu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract  —  A quad-band GSM/GPRS power 
amplifier module is designed with a built-in ability of 
RF power transmitting control. Within the RF 
power transmitting control loop, a RF power 
detecting circuit with another reference circuit are 
embedded together onto the same InGaP/GaAs HBT 
power amplifier chip to achieve a good temperature 
compensation. Such power chips are then assembly 
with a silicon CMOS comparative chip by the Multi-
Chip Module technology and functions as a closed-
loop power controlled GSM/GPRS power amplifier 
module. It had successfully demonstrated as play for 
all quad-band operations (GSM850, EGSM900, 
DCS1800, PCS1900). 
Index Terms  —  Power amplifier module, power 
control, Schottky diode. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Complying with the rules [1] from ETSI 
(European Telecommunications Standards 
Institute), to minimize the co-channel interference 
and also for power saving, both the mobiles and 
the base stations of the Global System for Mobile 
Communications (GSM) operate at the lowest 
power level that will maintain an acceptable signal 
quality. Power levels can be stepped up or down 
in steps of 2 dB from the peak power to a 
minimum of 13 dBm (20 milliwatts). The mobile 
station measures the signal strength or signal 
quality (based on the Bit Error Ratio), and passes 
the information to the Base Station Controller, 
which ultimately decides if and when the power 
level should be changed. Power control should be 
handled carefully, since there is the possibility of 
instability. 
In order to precisely control the transmitting 
power of handheld device, a closed–loop approach 
should be performed. The RF power could be 
sensed at the amplifier output using a directional 
coupler or capacitive divider and is detected 
across a fast Schottky diode. The resulting signal 
is a direct measurement of peak RF output voltage 
(knowing the coupling factor) and is compared to 
a reference voltage in an error amplifier. The loop 
controls the power amplifier gain via a control 
pin/line to force the measured voltage and the 
reference voltage to be equal. RF transmitting 
power control is accomplished by changing the 
reference voltage. This is a directly closed-loop 
power control. Some other approaches could be 
indirect power control by taking current sensing or 
voltage sensing [2] as compared to direct power 
sensing. 
 
II. ON-CHIP EMBEDED POWER DETECTOR AND 
TEMPERATURE REFERENCE CIRCUIT 
There are three kinds of junction diodes (PN, 
PIN & Schottky) could be employed in the power 
detection circuit. However, for both of PN 
junction diode and PIN diodes, the minority 
carriers of them stall off the response speed. As 
playing as a fast RF power detection, a majority 
device like Schottky diode is the best candidate. 
Properly choosing the diode size and bias point, 
the diode could be operated in a more linear 
region and a good dynamic operating range could 
be achieved [3-5]. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.1 Schematic drawing of power amplifier module. 
The components within the dash line are fabricated onto 
the same chip with InGaP/GaAs HBT process. 
 
