2image.
Shape is a primary image feature. It is
useful for image analysis, object identification
and image filtering applications [2, 16]. In
image retrieval, it is important for some
applications in which shape representation is
invariant under translation, rotation, and
scaling. Therefore, we will focus on shape
representations that are transformation
invariant.
In general, two-dimensional shapes can be
described in two different ways [1]. In the first
method, object shape is represented by its
boundary and features (e.g. boundary length,
curvature, and Fourier descriptors). The shape
description schemes are called external
representations. The second method is to
describe the region occupied by the object. The
description schemes are called internal
representations.
The most successful transformation
invariant external representation is Fourier
descriptor. The main idea of a Fourier
descriptor is regarded the Fourier transformed
boundary as the shape feature [14]. Fourier
descriptor can represent the center of gravity of
the curve and a rotation of the curve
coordinates by the angle θ. It can provide
usefully invariant shape descriptions.
We use the region feature (geometric
moments, Legendre moments and Zernike
moments) in object recognition application [9].
The main idea of normalized moments is
regarded region-based moments, which are
invariant to transformations, as the shape
feature. Seven such moments are defined [6,
12]. Based on the work, many improved
versions emerged. In [10], based on the
discrete version of Green’s theorem, a fast
method of computing moments is proposed for
binary images. Hu’s geometric moments are
not orthogonal; thus the resulting geometric
moment features are not optimal from a
viewpoint of information redundancy.
Orthogonal moments have additional
properties of being more robust in the presence
of image noise. Zernike moments [3, 7, 9, 13]
are based on the orthogonal Zernike radial
polynomials. Legendre moments [15] form
another orthogonal set called the Cartesian
coordinate space. They have very good image
representation capabilities.
According to [5], it compares three
regionbased shape descriptors: Zernike
moments descriptors, grid descriptors (using
grid to describe shape) and geometric moments
descriptors. It concludes that Zernike moment
descriptor is the most suitable for shape
retrieval in terms of computation complexity,
compact representation, robustness,
hierarchical coarse to fine representation and
retrieval performance. We endorse this result.
The Zernike moments descriptors can be
constructed to arbitrary order. Their
experiment of shape representation depends on
the number of moments truncated from the
expansion. The first 36 moments of orders up
to 10 are used in their implementation. In our
study, there are dependence relationships
between Zernike moments vectors of all kinds
of orders and repetitions in the first 36
moments of orders. The interdependence
relationship is decided by the correlation
analysis between two vectors. According to the
relations, we can find better represented
vectors in the first 36 moments of orders to be
the shape feature for content-based image
retrieval.
三､結果與討論
The correlation analysis is implemented
under the Windows XP operation system. Two
image sets are used in our experiments. The
first image set is consisted with 169 images
(C1.jpg ~ C169.jpg) of cartoons. Another 169
images (S1.jpg ~ S169.jpg) of a real-life image
dataset is called misc, which was used by
WBIIS [8], and WALRUS [4]. These two
image set are used to our experiment of the
correlation analysis. Figure 1 shows some
images stored in an image database with 169
images of cartoons.
The first 36 Zernike moments are A0,0, A1,1,
A1,-1, A2,0, A2,2, A2,-2, A3,1, A3,3, A3,-1, A3,-3, A4,0, A4,2,
A4,4, A4,-2, A4,-4, A5,1, A5,3, A5,5, A5,-1, A5,-3, A5,-5, A6,0,
A6,2, A6,4, A6,6, A6,-2, A6,-4, A6,-6, A7,1, A7,3, A7,5, A7,7,
A7,-1, A7,-3, A7,-5 and A7,-7. We use these Zernike
moments to compute their correlation
