need is an ultra-wideband antenna with a simple design and in 
any arbitrary shape to match with the tunable matching 
networks to achieve the continuous tunable bands that is 
highly flexible and diversified. 
  
Both the design principle and numerical analysis of 
matching network are simple. The input impedance data of the 
wideband antenna over the covered frequency ranges was used 
as the load impedance model to provide the proper capacitance 
inductance towards this model to obtain the desired frequency 
point and then reach a conjugate impedance matching through 
serial parallel connection. This would generate maximum 
transmission efficiency. While those unmatched noises or 
interfering signals unrelated to the system would be reflected 
back. When all the impedance matching problems in frequency 
were visualized and interpreted using Smith chart tool, it 
achieved a conjugate impedance matching under the particular 
frequencies. This is the main focus of tunable impedance 
matching concept. This design principle is not confined to 
particular kind and type of antenna, as long as it has enough 
bandwidth and it does not require to optimize the geometrical 
shape and size of the antenna for the tunable effects. This has 
greatly simplified the antenna design and complexity. While 
the matching network design process is also simple, and the 
integrated performance is outstanding. 
The main design considerations of tunable matching 
network include tunable impedance ranges, applicable 
frequency ranges, control methods, linearity, size and losses. 
There are currently many types of production technologies. 
MEMS is suitable to use in high frequency and high-energy 
operations with a low loss, but such technique has not been 
popularized yet due to its high and expensive manufacture 
technology, as well as its packaging problems. Although diode 
and SMD components used in Hybrid microwave circuit are 
subjected to frequency, operation energy and loss restrictions, 
but it is easier to make and design for the commercial bands, 
and the components are easy accessible and may be integrated 
in the future. The focus of this paper is to verify the feasibility 
and effectiveness of this tunable matching network concept 
when coordinated with UWB antenna to prove that it is a 
simple tunable antenna and it can be materialized easily. Hence, 
we chose hybrid technology using discrete components as the  
implementation and test method as our thesis. The three main 
exploration objectives of our tunable matching antenna are 
operating frequency ranges, the use of single component to 
achieve the tunable function, and energy loss reduction. As far 
as tunable matching network is concerned, how to overcome a 
high selectivity without losing a big tunable range is a big 
challenge for us. In this paper, we will point out several 
solutions to this issue. 
    
There are several kinds of architectures that can be 
accomplished by using matching network, examples are L-
type, π-type, T-type or others. Taking loss and design 
complexity into consideration, our ideals are to use fewer 
components as possible, simpler mathematical analysis, and 
less loss. The most suitable kind is L-type architecture. 
However, there is an architectural defect with limited 
matching impedance ranges, and there are other disadvantages 
as well such as poor Q value, lack of freedom, and unable to 
fit in our wideband matching concept while T-type and π-type 
are commonly confined to work in an architecture with high 
selectivity and a wide scope of tunable impedance network. 
Among them, there are three changeable degrees of freedom 
to adjust different impedances through changing one of the 
capacitance inductors to achieve the matching goal, while the 
extra degree of freedom can further be used to control the 
bandwidth. We chose the T architecture that includes two 
serial connected capacitors and a parallel connected inductor 
between them. The reasons will be explained in the next 
section. 
 
Table  I. Comparison to implement reconfigurable antennas. 
 
 
II. Motivation 
The aims of this band-tunable antenna are not only to 
integrate various wireless bands into one communication 
platform, but also to improve the application flexibility and 
selectivity of the desired frequency band. As for 
communication system, such tunable antennas provide the 
channel selection with lower SNR. Moreover, as one of the 
major applications in bio-medical such as remote health care 
or home personal care, many personal wireless devices 
encounter problems of time-varying channel due to human 
being. We also want to apply reconfigurable antenna to 
enhance such harsh bio-environments and adapt proper signal 
channels with diversity. In the first year study, an ultra-wide 
tuning range antenna was developed. 
III. Method—Tunable Matching Network  
Analysis and Simulation 
      We have already established a complete impedance 
matching theory [6] while considering the numerical analysis 
in wideband simultaneously. However, there exists a higher 
complexity and practical performance loss after considering 
the parasitic components, fabrication errors and self-resonant 
frequency in operation while matching with realistic 
components. The traditional matching network features an 
unfavorable capacitance and inductance value tolerance errors 
that will cause a frequency deviation at desired matching 
frequency. For the wideband matching in this paper, not only 
do we have to solve the matching problem, we also need to 
reduce the frequency deviation, overcome the drifting of 
capacitance and inductance SMD components at different 
frequencies and fabrication errors. While using UWB 
impedance with concentrated distribution and varactor, we are 
 Fig 5.  Compare with different B.W . Simulation matching 
networks of high-Q matching case (C=0.3 pF) and low-Q 
matching case (C=1.2 pF) S11 with port1 and port2 connect to 
50 Ω.  
 
T-type network impedance matching function is given as 
              
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
            (1) 
Bringing in the conditions and simplified it, we get the 
equation 
  
 
 
    
   
ω     
       (2) 
 
where both Ci are fixed (=a constant C value), and L is the 
controllable to achieve well-matched at the frequency ωtarget. 
We must bring in the actual components before it can comply 
with the equation and find the precise range.  
 
      Under the ideal condition of components, we calculated 
the theoretical matching inductance value and found out the 
required corresponding cascaded capacitance value. Then, 
from the C-V curve we measured from varactor, we set the 
bias voltage value for the required capacitance on varactor. 
Due to SMD component errors, the actual matching frequency 
might be deviated. From the deviation status, we calibrated the 
inductance value differences and then corrected the bias 
voltage slightly to compensate the frequency deviation to 
achieve the precise impedance matching on frequency. 
Through this design, we are able to overcome the component 
accuracy, and that this architecture has a very large Q value. 
By regulating the inductance value indirectly through voltage, 
we can simply control the impedance matching on frequency. 
All we need is only one adjustable voltage to accomplish the 
advantages of simple mathematical analysis, achievable circuit 
architecture and low loss towards signal energy. The varying 
range of inductance is controlled by the changeable amount 
from varactor. Such factor has thus determined the tunable 
ranges. The purpose of this paper is to make a preliminary 
validation,  and verify the tunable ranges of around 3 GHz. 
The components are not optimized intentionally yet. If we 
choose to change a larger varactor in simulation, plus taking 
actual SMD components into consideration, the adjustable 
range is predicted to be 1.8 GHz to 7 GHz.  
 
 
Fig 6.  The architecture of Semi-UWB antenna 
 
Fig 7.  Measurements of S11 of Semi-UWB antenna, and S21 
with horn antenna 
 
Fig 8.  The picture of tunable matching network and Semi-
UWB antenna 
 
From the relationship between T-type matching network 
and the high orlow Q values of Smith chart shown in Fig. 3(b), 
if we choose a high Q value, the capacitance value should be 
small. If we choose a low Q value (higher C), the controllable 
inductance scope is greater and the bandwidth is greater. This 
is the size of matching frequency we can choose, but the trade 
off is that the range is tunable. From equation (2), we know 
that the matching network with a high Q value has a smaller 
tunable range under the limited variable L range, whereas, the 
tunable range is greater with a small Q value.  
 
B. Matching Network Gain and Impedance Matching  Phase 
   
      There exists a definite loss in passive matching network 
itself. The T-type matching network we assembled using three 
SMD components is a controllable tunable matching 
architecture that requires least soldering of components. Due 
to the fact that only one varactor as the control component is 
used, we are able to suppress the loss based on the two 
aforesaid reasons. Under the condition of similar components, 
the loss of π-type and T-type matching network architectures 
should be the same theoretically, but these two matching 
architectures have shown different transducer power gain [9] 
towards different impedances. From S11 and S12, the 
transducer power gain is defined as  
             
     
 
        
                      (3) 
 
Horn antenna was used to compare S21 towards the 
separate Semi-UWB antenna with and without with the 
frequency tunable matching network. The original performance 
(S11 and S21) of horn to the circular semi-UWB antenna are 
those two middle lines shown in Fig. 11. From the figure, no 
selection is provided by the antenna. The measurement results 
from Semi-UWB antenna with tunable matching network are 
the upper and bottom lines in Fig. 11 and has shown an 
average bandwidth of around 300 MHz, and tunable operating 
frequency band of 2.1~3.6 GHz. If the original signal was 
similar, then signal to noise (SNR) could be improved by ((3.6-
2.1)/0.3) times (~7 dB) due to a reduction in noises and 
interferences and low loss in signal. When it was compared 
with the original, the selectivity had been upgraded 
significantly with only a slight energy loss. When T-network 
and the appropriate components were optimized during the 
actual design process, the insertion loss had reached 0.9 dB. 
The tunable range of some matches might not appear to be 
extremely wide like that in simulation due to the limitation of 
the components varactor. 
 
 
Fig 10.  F Tunable Semi-UWB antenna S11 with bias 
measurements from 0~23V  
 
 
 
Fig 11.   The performance of tunable antenna S21 with horn 
antenna when compared with original Semi-UWB antenna 
 
VI.  Conclusion 
In this paper, we propose a novel ultra-wide tunable 
antenna architecture and have succeeded in verifying its high 
selectivity, wide tuning range and low loss.A tunable antenna 
composed of microwave T-type matching network with a 
single controllable inductor is made by discrete components 
and a varactor to form a varying inductor. The measurement 
results show that it features an average transducer power gain 
of -0.58~ -0.94 dB, tunable ratio of 170%, and an average 
bandwidth of 300MHz (from 5.7% to 8.3%). A simple 
wideband antenna without  special design is coupled with our 
proposed frequency tunable matching impedance, we have 
succeeded in verifying the concept of using microwave circuit 
theory to accomplish the task of tunable antenna, of which is 
capable of reshaping the original wideband antenna into a 
tunable, highly selective narrowband antenna, and it only 
requires a single bias voltage to control the operating 
frequency. We have also investigated into the continuous 
controllable mechanism and overall improvement of Q value. 
All these results recommend that this design concept is able to 
lower the design process, time and analytical difficulty of 
tunable antenna significantly. Meanwhile, it can also achieve 
the ultra-wide and continuous tunable ranges. The analytical 
general principle and design equations can be applied in any 
kind of wideband antennas. In the future, this design concept 
is able to apply in designing and controlling multi-band 
tunable antennas.     
 
[1]  Viet-Anh Nguyen, Manh-Tuan Dao, Yun Tack Lim, and Seong-Ook  
Park, “A Compact Tunable Internal Antenna for Personal Communicati-
on Handsets,” IEEE Antennas Wireless Propagat. Lett., vol. 7, 2008. 
[2]  Yong-Xin Guo, Irene Ang, and M. Y. W. Chia, “Compact Internal Multi- 
band Antennas for Mobile Handsets,‖ IEEE Antennas Wireless Propagat. 
Lett., vol. 2, pp .143-146, 2003. 
[3]   Abdel-Fattah Sheta and Samir F. Mahmoud, “A Widely Tunable 
Compact Patch Antenna,” IEEE Antennas Wireless Propagat. Lett., vol. 
7,  pp .40-42, 2008 
[4]   Shing-Lung Steven Yang, Ahmed A. Kishk and Kai-Fong Lee,”Frequen- 
cy Reconfigurable U-Slot Microstrip Patch Antenna, ‖ IEEE Antennas  
Wireless Propagat. Lett., vol. 7, pp .127-129, 2008. 
[5]   Symeon Nikolaou, Ramanan Bairavasubramanian,Cesar Lugo, Jr.,Ileana  
Carrasquillo, Dane C. Thompson, George E. Ponchak, John Papapoly- 
merou and Manos M. Tentzeris, ―Pattern and Frequency Reconfigurable 
Annular Slot Antenna Using PIN Diodes, ‖ IEEE Transactions on Ant-
enna and Propagation, vol. 54, no. 2, Feb 2006. 
[6]   Chin-Lung Yang, ―Novel High Selective Band-Tunable Antennas over  
Ultra-wide Ranges Using Reconfigurable Matching Network, ‖ IEEE  
Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium, APSURSI  
'09. pp . 1-4, Jun. 2009. 
[7]   Christophe Hoarau, N. Corrao, J.-D. Arnould, Philippe Ferrari, and Pas- 
cal Xavier, ―Complete Design and Measurement Methodology for a Tu- 
nable RF Impedance-Matching Network, ‖ IEEE Transactions on  
Microwave Theory and Techniques, vol. 56, no. 11, Nov 2008. 
[8]   Thompson, M.,  Fidler, J.K., ―Determination of the Impedance Matching  
Domain of Passive LC Ladder Networks: Theory and Implementation, ‖  
Published by Elsevier Science Ltd,  J. Franklin Inst. Vol. 333(B), No. 2,  
pp. 141 155, 1996. 
[9]   Matthias Schmidt , Errikos Lourandakis , Anton Leidl , Stefan Seitz ,  
Robert Weigel,“A Comparison of Tunable Ferroelectric PI and T-Mat- 
ching Networks,‖  Proceedings of the 37th European Microwave  
Conference. 
[10] George H. Stauffer, Rockwell Collins, ―Finding the Lumped Element 
Varactor Diode Model, ‖ Copyright ©  2003 Summit Technical Media,  
LLC, From November 2003 High Frequency Electronics. 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/11/04
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 無線近身網路智慧節點之全方位可重組化無線電設計
計畫主持人: 楊慶隆
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-006-084- 學門領域: 電磁
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
僅執行一年，完成兩篇 paper, 無其他量化成果。 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
