permeameter to prevent the air pressure (matric 
suction) dissolved from the soil specimen in the 
testing process (Huang et al., 1998; Samingan et al., 
2003; Pereira et al., 2005). The top cap and 
pedestal were specially designed to have grooved 
water compartment below the high air entry 
ceramic disks. The grooves have 1 mm wide and 2 
mm deep cut onto the face of the top cap and 
pedestal and the high air entry ceramic disk is 
sealed properly into the top cap and pedestal using 
epoxy glue along its periphery (Huang et al. 1998). 
The grooves were to allow a uniform distribution 
of the air across the cross-section of the soil 
specimen and to separate the air flow and water 
flow such that the equilibration time for the 
application of matric suction was reduced (Barden 
and Pavlakis 1971; Fredlund and Raharjdo 1993; 
Huang et al. 1998).  
 
 
 
 
(a) 
 
 
 
(b) 
 
Figure 1.  (a) Setting up of a triaxial 
permeameter cell; (b) pedestral of the cell 
(modified from Huang et al., 1998) 
 
 
The high air-entry ceramic disk is chosen 
based on that the maximum matric suction and 
coefficient of permeability of the triaxial 
permeability test required; otherwise, the test result 
of permeability test would be controlled by the 
ceramic disk (Huang et al., 1998; Samingan et al., 
2003; Pereira et al., 2005). In this study, 5 bar and 
15 bar high air-entry ceramic disks with an average 
coefficient of permeability of 1.21x10-9 m/s and 
2.59x10-11 m/s, respectively were use. 
Water or air leakage from the ceramic disk 
and top cap or pedestal was checked before the test. 
The airtight check between the high air-entry 
ceramic disk and top cap or pedestal is important 
for permeability test. If any leakage produced from 
the top cap or pedestal it would affect the accuracy 
of the permeability test. 
 
2.2 Pressures and Flushing Lines 
Pressures lines consist of the upper (top cap) 
and lower (pedestral) water pressure lines, and an 
air pressure line at the top cap. The upper and 
lower water pressures were applied through two 
advanced water pressure/volume control devices 
which can also produce the differential water 
pressure (i.e., hydraulic gradient) during the 
permeability test. The complete set-up of the 
system is shown in Figure 2. 
 
 
Air Pressure：Pressure / Volume Change Device
Upper Back Pressure：Pressure/ Volume Change Device
Lower Back Pressure：Pressure / Volume Change Device
Deaired Water
Ball Bearing Spiral Ram
Server Motor 
 ( Reduction Gear 35:1 )
Rubber Pistion 
Server Motor 
Telescopic Spiral 
Ram Strain Device
Oblate Load Cell
High Air Entry 
Ceramic Disk
Soil Specimen
Rubber Membrane
Water
Water
Air
“ O＂Ring
Water
Oil
Confine Pressure：Pressure/ Volume Change Device
 
Figure 2. A complete set-up of triaxial 
permeameter system for unsaturated soil testing. 
 
 
Unsaturated soil testing often requires an 
extended period of time due to low coefficient of 
permeability of the soil. As the use of the axis-
translation technique over a long testing period 
does not guarantee that the water pressure system 
will remain free of air bubbles; during the test, pore 
air diffuses through the water in the high air entry 
ceramic disk and appears as air bubbles beneath the 
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛ −−
=
bk
bH
tk
tH
k
H
sH
w
k                 (3.1) 
 
where Hs is the height of the soil specimen; Ht is 
the thickness of the top high air entry ceramic disk; 
Hb is the thickness of the bottom high air entry 
ceramic disk; H=Ht+Hs+Hb; kt is the coefficient of 
permeability of the upper high air entry ceramic 
disk; kb is the coefficient of permeability of the 
lower high air entry; and k is the coefficient of 
permeability of the three-layered system 
determined as wk Q i A t= ⋅ ⋅ , with Qw is the 
volumetric water flow; i is the applied hydraulic 
gradient; A is the cross-sectional area of the soil 
specimen; t is the elapsed time of the permeability 
test. 
 
 
4. LABORATORY TEST 
4.1 Lateritic Soil at Linkou Terrace 
Twelve permeability tests were carried out on 
soil specimens taken from Linkou lateritic terrace. 
The soil has the following physical properties: 
specific gravity is between 2.634 to 2.714, water 
content is between 34.31% and 35.68%, percent of 
clay is between 52 and 61%, liquid limit is between 
52% and 60%, and plastic index is between 18% 
and 23%. According to unified soil classification 
system (USCS), the soil may be classified as MH 
soil.  
 
4.2 Results for Saturated Soil 
The traditional triaxial permeability test is 
performed on a cylindrical soil specimen and 
enclosed with a rubber membrane in the triaxial 
cell. In order to simulate field condition the cell is 
filled with water and a constant confining pressure. 
The top and bottom parts of the specimen are 
subject to different back water pressure (hydraulic 
gradient) that resulted water flowing into the 
specimen.  
The hydraulic gradient used for the coefficient 
of permeability measurements is similar to the one 
used for the unsaturated specimen. The relationship 
between the coefficient of permeability and 
hydraulic gradient for saturated soils is also given 
by ASTM D5084-90 (1997). In this study, we 
apply a hydraulic gradient of 100 to the MH soil. 
The permeabilities of saturated Linkou lateritic soil 
at net normal stresses of 50 and 200 kPa are fround 
to be 3.9E-10, and 1.1E-10 m/s, respectively. 
 
4.3 Results for Unsaturated Soil 
The water coefficient of permeability of 
unsaturated soil with a relatively incompressible 
structure can be described as a function of the 
volumetric water content or degree of saturation 
but the water content of a soil specimen is difficult 
to control, measure, or predict (Fredlund and 
Rahardjo, 1993). The relationship between the 
volumetric water content and matric suction is 
represented by the SWCC for the soil. Therefore, 
the water coefficient of permeability of an 
unsaturated soil can also be defined as a function of 
the matric suction (Fredlund and Rahardjo, 1993). 
 
0 50 100 150 200
-15
-10
-5
0
Elapsed Time (hr)
V
ol
um
e 
of
 w
at
er
 (c
.c
.)
(ua-uw)=500 kPa
(ua-uw)=100 kPa
 
Figure 4. Consolidation curve of unsaturated 
specimen UP1. 
 
 
Figure 4 shows the typical consolidation 
curves of specimen consolidated under matric 
suctions of 100 and 500 kPa. As soil is de-saturated, 
air displaces water in the void (Samingan et al., 
2003). Thus, the water were being displaced by air 
and drained from the specimen during unsaturated 
consolidate stage. Also, the higher the matric 
suction the higher the water being squeezed out 
from the specimen. 
The constant head method was used here 
because the variable head method for unsaturated 
permeability measurement leads to difficulties in 
maintaining the state of stress in the specimen 
during the permeability test (Samingan et al., 2003). 
The desired hydraulic gradient was applied to make 
water flow through the specimen. The water inflow 
and outflow were continuously monitored until a 
steady-state condition was established, i.e. the 
inflow rate was approximately equal to the outflow 
rate. Samingan et al., (2003) used hydraulic 
gradient ranging from 30 to 140 and their results 
