We can understand easily on the Web information 
content for the exchanging and sharing. In 2003, W3C 
has established semantics web[8] the Semantic Web 
Services Interest Group, the research joins the 
semantic technology in Web Service the related 
question. And develops the Web development 
technology along with the semantics web birth also to 
will certainly to experience a more significant 
transformation. Also can have the new development 
technology or develop the platform to appear. From 
the traditional Web to semantic web[12] is for more 
people getting the more valuable information service. 
Therefore the information sharing becomes the 
highest goal; the semantic web will also become the 
future network the mainstream. 
When the search engine to search the homepages 
is to depend on the same concept (concepts), not only 
rely on the similar individual character. To follow the 
more and more searching technology, it has the better 
search ability to respond the detail inquiry request. 
Using RDF tagging may provide the meaning 
opportunity the new search method. But, the majority 
of meanings search engine will be able to meet the 
potency question which searches for from the massive 
meanings network. In order to obtain the effective 
searching results, the network must contain the 
massive related information. But while, the large-scale 
network causes to discover a best way in many 
processing solutions question way to appear is not 
easily. 
However, the network search has some problems. 
For example, the data what we want or the true need, 
according to the nowadays network search system, we 
always utilize the keywords to query. But to make the 
inquiry in the material huge information sea, we often 
fall into another information sea, even more 
information sea. Thus we may find the more other 
data which is not related, the search efficiency will be 
reduced very much carelessly. To cause this condition 
because the words meaning confused and the 
resources description or tag. We knew that is an issue. 
In general, many data in World Wide Web has less 
correlation between each other and cause the search 
related material very difficult.  
We proposed to achieve the semantic web 
service system. It includes the semantic searching 
method, and combines WordNet[2] and RDF to search 
the different resources characteristic from internet. 
The goal can supply interactive and commutation 
between the heterogeneity resources. To annotate 
these metadata by RDF and WordNet, and supply 
other agent process inquiry these RDF documents. It 
achieved meaning-like (semantic) homepage 
resources sharing progress for human nature operation 
and convenience. 
Therefore, according to the concept-based WSD 
system model which was proposed by Che-Yu Yang 
(AINA’2005)[1] and this paper study will focused on 
using RDF description within WordNet[3] Synset 
(synonymy character collection) the idea (concept) 
explains/tags web-pages meaning content, as well as 
using the characteristic – Notation Triples (N3) give a 
sign to mark these various resources with other 
resources constructions. The query language is Jena[6] 
which will propose N-Triple to search the words 
relative. Finally establishes the Semantic Web Service, 
achieved to supply the semantic query and sharing 
resources goal. 
This paper is organized as follows. In section 1 
we give a short introduction about our system. We 
talk about the searching advantage of our idea. Next, 
in section 2 is related work about the RDF and its 
query language. In section 3 we discuss about the 
relation of the RDF and WordNet. We establish the 
relation to addition the semantic concept that can the 
search and query. In section 4 we integrate over and 
above to package Web Service. Finally is conclusions 
and future work in section 5. 
 
2. Related Work 
 
The Resource Description Framework (RDF) is a 
W3C Recommendation for the formulation of 
metadata-description on the World Wide Web. The 
RDF is a simple model and considered to be the most 
relevant standard for data representation and exchange 
on the Semantic Web[11]. The RDF Schema (RDFS) 
extends this standard with the means to specify 
domain vocabulary and object structures. In order to 
describe and defines grammar as well as the 
announcement the RDF, RDFS looks like a dictionary, 
it describes each property significance, the 
characteristic, and the constraint of property value. 
RDFS may let the person to read and understand each 
data attribute significance. RDFS defines the class and 
property to descript the resources content. 
Also RDF is for knowledge and metadata 
representation. And it is as well fitting for 
representing any data or metadata. RDF may regard as 
one kind of Web knowledge to express the language, 
or said it which is a logical language. RDF has the 
formalized grammar, the semantic model, to proved 
inference as well as and theorem of the reliable. The 
architecture of RDF is based on the Extensible 
Markup Language (XML). Therefore we may use 
RDF the data model and use the directional 
characteristic to construct the relation. 
We proposed the RDF Data Query Language 
(RDQL). RDQL is querying RDF documents 
language in the tradition of database. RDQL is a typed 
language for generalized path expressions featuring 
variables. In order to query the RDF documents, we 
use the Jena’s API architecture to focus on the RDF 
data model. Jena is Java toolkit for developing 
semantic web applications based on W3C 
recommendations for RDF and OWL. It provides an 
RDF API; ARP, an RDF parser, RDQL, an RDF 
query language; an OWL API; and rule-based 
 2
more efficiency when we want to do concept 
searching and index catalog of contents service). This 
is in the cause of referring alternately and indexing the 
resources service in the future. The architecture 
diagram can see figure 3. 
 
So, when user query the keyword(s), the WSD 
algorithm will semantic filter the related web pages by 
Google API and return back. And semantic mapping 
on WordNet Synset(s) will tag the ID of Synset. Then 
the system will establish the related property set. It 
includes the attributes of the subject, predicate and 
object. We know that is the class of words named by 
URIs. To reference the RDF/RDFS format proposes 
storage in our system. Finally is to package into the 
Semantic Web Service System. 
Search Interface
Semantic Filter
(WSD)
RDF Tagger
RDF Model
WordNet/RDF 
Schema
RDF WebPages
Storage
Synsets
Jena Model
(Resources)
Google API
Google Query
Semantic Web 
Service
                            Triple ParsingQuery Resources           
RDF IDs of Synsets                      
Web Pages 
Keywords Query  
Semantically 
Related WebPages                                  
Semantically 
Tagged WebPages                                  
Query                    N -Triple
 
Figure 3   the system architecture 
Figure 4   RDF query using Sesame 
 
4.2 Implementation Integration for Web Service 
 
WSDL is the standard XML format which 
describes the XML Web Service. WSDL can support 
the SOAP protocol. And it uses the XML language to 
describe the Web Service attribute. The StockQuote 
function will receives a Query (Request), it can 
feedback to the server to execute by WSDL. Just like 
the keywords to search in a search engine (Request). It 
will access the server by SOAP. If it obtains a 
response from server, the responses will feedback to 
user (Response) finally. We will use these 
applications (RPC, UDDI and SOAP), and package to 
fit out the Web Service system. 
The environment in our implementation is the 
Apache Jakarta Tomcat (Apache SOAP 2.0, Java 
servlets 2.2 API standard), and we install the Apache 
Xerces XML Parser 1.2.3. It supplies the XML 
grammar parsing and supports to develop the most 
XML standard. Figure 5 is our system interface as 
following. 
 
The Jena development platform is Java 
Framework. It’s the application program interface 
(API) which can construct the Semantic Web 
architecture. Jena is the standard inquiry language of 
RDF and RDFS. It provides the diverse searching 
measures, including in view of some files or the 
website content. Also it can supply to limit the scope 
of the searching (WHERE Clause) and logical 
determining and filtering (AND Clause, USING 
Clause). 
 
Figure 5    Web Service system 
We make up the sesame to integrate the RDQL 
as following figure 4. And we use mysql to store 
database. It includes the XML and RDF documents.  
 
 
 4
