 
Coastguard 1.15 % 0.58 % 0.60 %
Silent 3.05 % 2.65 % 2.19 %
News 2.70 % 1.39 % 1.02 %
high motion or new object entrance, the temporal correlation
becomes low. In this case, the distortion would be large
using inter mode coding. The intra-mode coding may take
over, in order to avoid the matching-error propagation.
However, the probability of intra-mode used is quite low in
most of videos. Table I shows the percentage of intra-block
used under various quantization parameters (QP) with JM
reference program [15]. As QP=28, the probability for intra-
mode coding is only 1.45% on average. While QP increases,
the probability of intra block coding would trend to low.
Actually, the best intra mode often occurs on high-motion or
new-object blocks. Figure 1(a) shows the original “Silent” 
sequence at 28th frame, and Figure 1(b) shows the intra-
block marked. The object in “Hand” is high motion and it is 
coded with intra-block mode. When the best mode cannot
be selected for intra mode coding in new-object blocks, the
coding performance would turn down. For extreme example,
the coding bit rate will increase 17% when intra mode is not
preformed for P- and B- frames [10].
Although the intra mode is less used for P- and B-frame
coding, the computational cost for intra-mode coding is
required for optimal mode selection. In this study, a new
model is proposed to reduce the computation of intra mode.
An efficient algorithm is proposed to decide whether intra
mode is performed when inter mode coding has been
processed for the predictive frames. As the inter mode
coding had been done, one can obtain the magnitude of
motion vector (MV) and the sum of absolute transformed
difference (SATD) between the original block and the best
inter prediction block. The cost of inter coding can be
estimated by the motion distance and differential error from
the H.264 coding routine of inter-frames. After motion
estimation from inter coding, the motion distance can be
expressed by
||||)( yx MVMVMVLength  (2)
, where MVx and MVy denote the horizontal and vertical
motion vectors, respectively. The summation absolute
transformed differential (SATD) error can be computed by






1
0
1
0
||)(
N
u
N
v
uvRFDiffSATD (3)
,where N is the block size. The RFuv is a matrix of residual
coefficient, which can be transformed from the differential
of temporal pixels by
)ˆ( ijijuv ffTRF  , for i, j=0 to N-1 (4)
Fig. 1 (a) Fig. 1 (b)
Fig. 1 (a) and (b) shows the original “Silent”sequence and
intra-mode selected at the marked blocks at the 28th frame.
, where ijij ff ˆ, is the original pixel and the motion
compensated pixel from the previous frame, respectively. T
is the integer cosine transform. The RFuv can be direclty
obtained from the measure of the amount of motion
estimation residual in H.264 codec. Then cost of inter
coding can be expressed as
)()(),( iiiInter MVLengthDiffSATDMBQPCost   . (5)
where is a weighting parameter that can be decided by
experiments for various sequences. While the Costinter is
high, intra coding may be used. To verify this feature, one
can embed the function of inter-cost with (4) to H.264
codec in JM software. Figure 2 shows the curves of the
relation between the inter cost and the probability of intra-
mode used with the sequences “Silence” and “Carphone”. 
Clearly, when the inter cost is high, the probability of
intra-mode used increases accordingly. As the inter
cost<10000, most of blocks adopted inter mode coding. In
this case, the intra mode can be neglected. However, intra
mode may be instead of inter mode for P- and B- frames
coding when inter cost becomes higher.
In high inter cost block, the probability of intra-mode
used is high. However, we further consider the intra cost
based on the spatial correlation of a coding block. If the
intra cost is high, the intra-mode may not be used, even in
higher inter cost. For a smooth block, the high spatial
correlation is existed among their neighboring pixels. The
bit rate would be low using intra coding. With this reason,
a variance-like parameter can be employed to estimate the
cost of intra coding, which can be given by








1
0
1
0
1 N
i
N
j
ijintra MeanfNN
MVARCost , (6)






1
0
1
0
1 N
i
N
j
ijfNN
Mean . (7)
The Costintra can be computed with mean variance-like
(MVAR) of block. If Costintra is low, the probability of
intra-mode coding would be large.
Clearly, the relative value of inter and intra cost needs
to be computed to decide the probability of intra-mode
coding. For a low Costintra and high Costinter block, the intra-
mode should be included for the best mode selection for
Figure 5. The threshold decision under various QP to
maximum coding performance.
threshold and QP, the statistical software, SPSS, is
employed by Fisher Linear Discriminant function
(FLD)[16]. The various QP, thresholds, time reduction
ration and coding bit rate, are input to the software to find
the maximum performance with three testing benchmarks.
One can use the inverse function to find the linear equation
to close the best point. The results are shown in Figure 5.
The threshold from FLD can achieve the good average
result. However, for RDO coding, first the coding quality
should be maintained. The coding quality degrades in some
frames when the threshold with FLD because many intra
modes are ignored for block coding. To overcome this
drawback, the threshold is adjusted to lower to cover more
intra modes by referring the results of FLD in experiments.
The time saving with the adjusted threshold is lower than
FLD, but the coding quality can be improved. Since the
feature is greatly different in high QP and low QP, to obtain
better performance, the linear equation between QP and TH
can be split into two sections according to the curve in Fig.
5, which can be given by





28,207357
28,4553527
QPwhenQP
QPwhenQP
TH . (9)
The QP=28 is a turning point. The relative slope of QP and
TH is higher in low QP. The adaptive threshold can achieve
good tradeoff of time saving and coding performance. The
result of simulation will be token in later.
III. THE PROPOSED EARLY SKIP MODE DECISION
In H.264/AVC, the coded block may be selected as a
SKIP mode. The encoder only sends just a SKIP indicator
to the decoder without transmitting data such as encoded
residual coefficients, and motion vector. The decoder
reconstructs the SKIP block just by the predicted motion
vector from the reference frame. The region of motionless
object or background can be coded with SKIP mode since
the coding bits for motion and residues are not required. If a
block can be early determined with SKIP mode, the
intra/inter computations all can be saved, and the coding
TABLE 2 THE PROBABILITY OF SKIP MODE USED IN VARIOUS
SEQUENCES AS QP=28
Sequences Prob. of SKIP Sequences Prob. of SKIP
Container 76% Carphone 46%
Mobile 59% Weather 62%
Paris 56% Silent 68%
Fig. 6 The percentage of skip MB in various quantization
scales (QP).
time can be greatly reduced. However, once the decision is
wrong with SKIP mode, the coding quality will become bad
and the error may propagate to the next frame coding.
Hence the early SKIP selection must be very carefully in the
fast RDO.
First, one can evaluate the use of the SKIP mode with
real H.264 coding software. Table II shows the percentage
of SKIP blocks as QP=28 with JM reference program. Most
of sequences are above 50% using SKIP mode coding. The
high motion and high variance sequence, such as Carphone,
even 45% SKIP mode is used. The low-activity sequences
with SKIP mode coding have higher probability than the
high-motion ones. Figure 6 shows the percentage of SKIP
mode under various QP. While QP increases, the number of
skip block coding would be large, and many computations
for RD cost can be omitted when SKIP mode can be early
found.
In this study, an early skip prediction is proposed
according to the temporal correlation between the current
MB and the past MB. A huge amount of computation can be
saved when the conditions of SKIP prediction is satisfied. In
P slice, one can check the SKIP mode used in the past MBs.
Also, the differential between the current MB and the
reference MB with zero-vector is estimated. The sum of
absolute differential (SAD) can be computed by
||
1
0
1
0
0





N
i
N
j
mv
ijij reffSAD (10)
, where 0mvijref is the pixel of the previous reference frame
at zero vector. The SKIP mode can be early selected as a
coding mode when the condition of SKIP prediction is
TABLE 3 THE PERFORMANCE OF INTRA MODE IGNORED ALGORITHM UNDER
VARIOUS QP VALUES
model [1]. All results are compared to the original JM
reference program with full RDO. The bit rate increment
(Bit) and the computational time reduction (Time) are
defined as
%100
%100
_
_
_
_






RDOFull
RDOFullfast
RDOFull
RDOFullfast
T
TT
Time
Bit
BitBit
Bit
(11)
, respectively. BitFull_RDO and TFull_RDO is the result of coding
bit rate and CPU time using the original full RDO algorithm;
and Bitfast and Tfast denotes the result of coding bit rate and
CPU time with the fast algorithms. The differential PSNR is
defined by PSNR= PSNRfast - PSNRfull_RDO , to show the
quality degrading.
A.Simulations for intra-mode ignored algorithm
To simulate the proposed algorithm, the weighting
parameters, α=508 and β=107 for (8). The parameters are 
decided by exhausted testing from 100 to 600 with three
benchmarks. The best performance is achieved in high time
saving and low bit increasing on average. The coding results
are shown in Table 3, which includes the three trained
sequences and five non-trained sequences. The coding time
can be reduced about 20%~30% dependent on the sequence
content and the selected QP. When QP is small, RDO tends
to encode the videos for high PSNR quality with high bit
rate coding. So the probability of intra block coding should
be higher. In such a case, the proposed intra-mode ignored
algorithm can save more coding time. With the same reason,
the time reduction of low motion sequence is more than that
TABLE 4 THE PERFORMANCE OF SKIP MODE PREDICTION ALGORITHM
UNDER VARIOUS QP VALUES
of high motion sequence since skip mode used in JM is less.
Results demonstrate that the PSNR drop and bit rate
increment is very slightly. Hence the proposed algorithm not
only can keep coding quality but also can reduce the coding
time efficiently for RDO coding.
Recently, there are some papers to explore the intra
mode skip algorithm [10-11]. Kim et al. [10] presented the
fast intra mode skip by the motion vector (MV) of the
current and previous frame. If the length of MV is shorter
than the previous blocks, the intra-mode is omitted for RDO
searching. The encoding time can be saved about 50%.
However, its coding performance becomes worst. The bit
rate increases about 0.4% and the PSNR drops about 0.1dB.
The requirement of the fast RDO algorithm is not only to
save the coding time but also to keep the coding quality.
This algorithm seems to not be accepted for RDO quality.
The other algorithm for intra mode omitted [11] is presented
by checking the minimum RD cost of neighboring blocks as
a threshold. If the RD cost of the current block is less than
the threshold, the intra mode is neglected in RDO. The
results show that it can save about 20%~30% encoding time
for IPPP frames while keeping the coding bit rate and PSNR.
Compared with competing algorithm [10], the proposed
algorithm can achieve better coding performance on bit rate
increment and PSNR drop. However, the time saving is not
higher than [10]. The results of the proposed algorithm is
close to [11] on the coding performance and time saving.
B. Simulations for SKIP mode prediction
Based on the proposed early skip decision algorithm, the
simulated results are shown in Table 4. As for high-motion
sequences, such as Carphone, and Coastguard, the number
further reduced to 30%~45% of original RDO method. Also,
the PSNR drop and bit rate increment can be neglected.
D. Comparisons
For comparisons, one can select one paper [14] with the
hybrid of an early mode prediction and intra mode neglected
approach. The average results from eight sequences are
listed in Table 6. The symbol “AIS” indicates the proposed
intra mode ignored scheme, “ESP” indicates the proposed 
early SKIP prediction scheme, “COMB” indicates the 
proposed combination with the above two schemes. From
the average results from the proposed hybrid method, the
maximum PSNR drop is only -0.03dB at QP=40, and the
maximum bit rate increment is about 0.07% at QP=22. The
gain is that the encoding time can be reduced about 37%. In
the high-motion sequences, the speed performance will be
bad using the fast RDO scheme since SKIP mode is less
appeared. Figures 9(a) and (b) show the RD curve with
PSNR vs various bit rate, for high motion
“Carphone“ sequence. Results shown the RD curves with 
the original RDO, the proposed method and [14] are very
close from low to high bit-rate coding. However, the time
reduction of the proposed algorithm can improve over 15%
than the competing one [14] in the same testing condition.
IV. CONCLUSIONS
The paper has presented the new scheme for the fast
mode decision criterion for rate-distortion optimization in
H.264 . A two-prong approach is proposed. The first is to
perform early SKIP decision with temporal correlation and
an SAD. If the SAD is lower than a stored SAD of the
previous skipped MB, the current MB is skipped. The
second prong is an adaptive intra-mode ignored approach to
determine the essentiality of intra-coding by computing the
inter and intra cost. The inter cost is estimated by the
distortion and a scaled length of motion vector. The cost of
intra block is estimated by a spatial variance-like method.
The total cost is jointly to combine with the inter and intra
cost. An adaptive threshold comparing this cost is advised to
decide whether intra-mode used. The above methods are
combined with a particular processing flow to improve the
coding speed further. The reduction of RDO encoding time
can be improved to about 37% using the proposed hybrid
approach, as well as, the coding performance of RD cost can
be kept when compared with the original full RDO
computing. The fast RDO algorithm can be applied to
H.264/AVC system as a speed improved engine for real-
time applications.
REFERENCES
[1] Draft ITU-T recommendation and final draft international
standard of joint video specification(ITU-
TRec.H.264/ISO/IEC14496-10AVC in Joint Video Team
(JVT) of ISO/IECMPE Gand ITU-TVCEG, JVT G050,
2003.
[2] F. Pan, X. Lin, S. Rahardja, K. P. Lim, Z. G. Li, D. Wu,
and S. Wu, ”Fast mode decision algorithm for 
intraprediction in H.264/AVC video coding”, IEEE Trans.
Circuits and Systems Video Technology, vol. 15, no.7, pp.
813-822, July, 2005.
[3] Y. Yu and L. Wang, “ A fast intra mode selection method 
for H.264 high profile,”IEEE ICASSP, 2008, pp. 281-284.
[4] Esam A. Al Qaraleh and T.S. Chang, “Fast variable block 
size motion estimation by adaptive early termination”
IEEE Trans. Circuits and Systems for Video Technology,
vol. 15, No. 6, pp. 784-788, June 2005.
[5] G. Laroche, J. Jung, and B. P. Popescu, “RD optimized 
coding for motion vector predictor selection,” IEEE Trans.
on Circuits Syst. Video Technol., vol.18 no.9, pp. 1247-
1257, Sep. 2008.
[6] M. G. Sarwer and L.-M Po, “Fast bit rate estimation for 
mode decision of H.264/AVC ,” IEEE Trans. on Circuits
Syst.Video Technol., vol.17 no.10, pp. 1402-1407, Oct.
2007.
[7] Y.-K. Tu, J.-F. Yang, and M.-T. Sun, “Efficient rate-
distortion estimation for H.264/AVC coders ,” IEEE
Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol., vol. 16 no.5, pp.
600-611, May 2006.
[8] L.-M Po and K. Guo ,“Transform-domain fast sum of the
squared difference computation for H.264/AVC rate-
distortion optimization ,” IEEE Trans. on Circuits
Syst.Video Technol., vol.17 no.6, pp. 765-773, June 2007.
[9] C. Kim and C.-C Jay Kuo, “Feature-based intra-/inter
coding mode selection for H.264/AVC ,”IEEE Trans. on
Circuits Syst. Video Technol., vol.17 no.4, pp. 441-453,
Apr. 2007.
[10] T.J. Kim, J.E. Hong, and J.W. Suh, “A fast intra mode 
skip decision algorithm based on adaptive motion vector
map”, IEEE Trans. on Consumer Electronics, vol.55 no.1,
pp. 179-184, Feb. 2009.
[11] B. G. Kim, “Fast selective intra-mode search algorithm
based on adaptive thresholding scheme for H.264/AVC
encoding,”IEEE Trans. on Circuits Syst. Video Technol.,
vol.18 no.1, pp. 127-133, Jan. 2008.
[12] C. S. Kannangara ,Iain E. G. Richardson, M. Bystrom , J.
R. Solera , Y. Zhao ,A. MacLennan and R. Cooney,
“Low- complexity skip prediction for h.264 through
lagrangian cost estimation ,”IEEE Trans. on Circuits Syst.
Video Technol., vol.16 no.2, pp. 202-208, Feb. 2006.
[13]A. Saha , K. Malick , J. Mukherjee and S. Sural ,“SKIP 
prediction for fast rate distortion optimization in H.264 ,”
IEEE Trans. on Consumer Electronics , vol.53 no.3, pp.
1153-1160, Aug. 2007.
[14]I. Choi , J. Lee and B. Jeon , “Fast coding mode selection 
with rate-distortion optimization for MPEG-4 part-10
AVC/H.264 ,”IEEE Trans. on Circuits Syst. Video
Technol., vol.16 no.12, pp. 1557-1561, Dec. 2006.
[15] JM16.2. [Online]. Available:
http://iphome.hhi.de/suchring/tml/download/old_jm
表 Y04
報告內容應包括下列各項：
一、參加會議經過
6/29 搭中華航空至香港.
6/30 田香港轉機至土耳奇伊斯坦堡
7/1~3 當地參訪
7/4~8 註冊及參加研討會
7/8 晚上搭機由伊斯坦堡飛回香港
7/9 搭中華航空回台
二、與會心得
本次 2011 高效能計算與模擬研討會在土耳奇 伊斯坦堡之 Bahcesehir University 舉
行. 研討會內容共分 15 個 workshops, 主要有雲端計算及服務, 有效分散式系統, 晶片
上之多重處理器系統, 安全及高效能計算系統, 演算及程式化模組, 圖形分析及辨識,
硬體加速器, 等技術領域.
能與國際學者交換研究心得，收益良多。在此會議中個人在圖形分析及辨識 workshop
中,發表 1篇過去的研究成果。提出一個基於人臉辨識的背光補償調適處理演算法，自
動偵測出圖像中所有人臉位置並且做光線補償，用來減少手動背光圖像修正所花費的時
間。再透過一個亮度遞減斜率不斷的將人臉位置附近的像素點，按照某一程度的亮度遞
減來做光線補償，透過此方法不需要對於整張圖像做處理，如此可以達到自動修正與增
加處理效能。此論文已登載在會議論文集第376-380頁。此篇論文作更有系統修改後, 已
轉投期刊論文。本次會議最大收獲是能了解目前國外在信號處理領域發展趨勢及研究
情況，並認識相關領域的教授及工程師，增加視野寬度及吸收別人長處，將來有助於個
人在研究及教學上作參考。
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略)
參觀伊斯坦堡大學
四、建議
無
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 :
Proceedings of the 2011 High Performance Computing & Simulation Conference 一本及
CD 一片。
六、其他
無
表 Y04
Back Light Compensation with Face Detection for Digital Still
Camera
Shih-Chang Hsia and Wen-Chin Yang
National Yunlin University of Science and Technology, Taiwan
National Kaohsiung First University of Science and Technology, Kaohsiung, Taiwan
hsia@yuntech.edu.tw
ABSTRACT
Due to unequal brightness distribution, some object on camera imaging may be not clear which
caused by unfamiliar with devices or in a bad weather. This paper presents the adaptive
backlight-balancing processing algorithm to compensate the brightness and contrast of particular
region. Based on face detection, the serious problem of dark face on digital still camera can be
efficiently solved with an adaptive algorithm. To avoid blocky artifact, the balancing factor nearby
the face location is approximately reduce with distance weight. By this way, we do not need to
process the whole image to regulate the unequal brightness. This algorithm makes the processing
efficiently and the brightness and contrast of face region can be automatically adjusted for digital
still camera system.
KEYWORDS: face detection, adaptive algorithm, light balance, brightness.
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：夏世昌 計畫編號：99-2221-E-224-088- 
計畫名稱：系統層級中即時視訊編碼技術結合視訊分析演算法與系統晶片設計之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 3 3 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 1 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 4 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
