Analysis of correlation between the aiming ad-
justment trajectory and the shot points has been studied 
[7] by Lin et al. Aiming trajectory can be modeled as a  
nonlinear stochastic system. The desired aiming ad-
justment is modeled as the deterministic but nonlinear 
part, and the muscle strength stability is modeled as the 
stochastic part. Several linear aggressive moving average 
with an exogenous input (ARMAX) models to represent 
the nonlinear part via the T-S fuzzy scheme. Thus, the 
important knowledge base for the T-S fuzzy model is 
needed to obtain from these linear ARMAX models. In 
this paper, ARMAX [8] is adopted to model the aiming 
trajectory for each shot associated with each archer. We 
then define related variables for identifying their role 
upon the performance. The direct effect on the per-
formance related to these variables will be analyzed. The 
Hamming window is implemented to recovery the de-
sired and anticipated adjustments of archers. Correlation 
method is designed to obtain the individual and grouping 
characteristics. 
 
Notations: 
TR: the radius distance of the arrow from target center. 
X: the horizontal direction. 
Y: the vertical direction. 
ax, ay: the coefficients of AR part of ARMAX model. 
bx, by: the exogenous inputs along both directions. 
|bx|, |bx|: the absolute value of the exogenous inputs. 
Px1, Py1: the first dominate real pole of ARMAX model. 
Px2r, Py2r: the real part of complex pair pole or the 
second dominate real pole. 
Px_1, Py_1: the pole is 1. 
Rx1, Ry1: the corresponding residue of Px1 and Py1. 
Rx2, Ry2: the corresponding residue of Px2 and Py2. 
Rx2r, Ry2r: the real parts of Rx2 and Ry2. 
Rx2a, Ry2a: the absolute values of Rx2 and Ry2. 
Rx_1, Ry_1: the residue of Px_1 and Py_1. 
Ux1: the combined effect of Px1 and Rx1. 
Uy1: the combined effect of Py1 and Ry1. 
Ux2: the real part of combined effect of Px2 and Rx2. 
Uy2: the real part of combined effect of Py2 and Ry2. 
Ux_1: the combined effect of Px_1 and Rx_1 (the same 
as Rx_1). 
Uy_1: the combined effect of Py_1 and Ry_1 (the same 
as Ry_1). 
Ux, Uy: the total effect of exogenous inputs bx and by. 
UR: 2 2UR Ux Uy= +  
T-x, T-y: the settling time of Ux and Uy, respectively. 
T-d: | T-x - T-y| the absolute value of difference between 
settling times of T-x and T-y. 
Ax, Ay: the phase angle of Px2 and Py2, respectively. 
C(v1,v2): the correlation between variables v1 and v2 
based on individual archer. 
CG(v1,v2): the correlation between TR and C(v1,v2) 
based on twelve archers (global sense). 
CGA(v1,v2): the correlation between TR and |C(v1,v2)| 
based on twelve archers (global sense). 
 
II. METHODS 
The exerted force related to the intended and de-
sired adjustment to compensate the existing offset (the 
exogenous part) is modeled as the AR part of the 
ARMAX. It notes that a negative pole existing at the AR 
part is corresponding to the high frequency oscillation, 
so it is not belonged to the desired and intended adjust-
ment. This high frequency oscillation is reasonable to be 
modeled as the stability of muscle strength. The original 
recorded data processed by the proposed ARMAX 
model do obtain the undesired negative pole in the AR 
part, even though the pole is very close to -1. Therefore, 
the most common Hamming window is applied to 
separate the high frequency oscillation (the effect of 
muscle strength stability) from the AR part which is de-
signed the desired adjustments. 
The exogenous part of the ARMAX can be used to 
describe the main adjustment of the aiming trajectory to 
compensate the offset between the aiming point and the 
center of the target. For example, the current aiming 
point is located at the left of the center of the target, and 
archers usually will exert a steady force to move the bow 
right forward the center of the target. This steady con-
stant force is then modeled as a constant bx. Because of 
the setting of this model, the right forward constant force 
is represented by a positive constant. Similarly, the con-
stant by is designated for the vertical direction case. 
The MA part of the ARMAX is utilized to model 
the muscle strength of archers. These three coefficients 
are related to two zeros of the transfer function. Likewise 
the stability analysis based on them may have connection 
with the poles of AR part. The mean and variance of the 
driving noise can indicate the accuracy and fairness of 
the proposed ARMAX model. 
The original aiming trajectory, the smoothing tra-
jectory by the Hamming window, and the estimated tra-
jectory from the previous one are depicted in Fig. 1 for 
comparison. It is obvious that the muscle strength sta-
bility can be separated as the stochastic part, and the 
ARMAX with order 3 can model the smoothing trajec-
tory well. We now denote the desired aiming trajectories 
along both directions as Ux and Uy. They are related to   
the poles of the system and the associated residue, and in 
the z-domain can be written as 
  
3
3 2
1 2 3
( )
( 1)( )
_1 1 2 3
( 1) ( 1) ( 2) ( 3)
x
x x x
z b
Ux z
z z a z a z a
Rx Rx Rx Rxz
z z Px z Px z Px
= − − − −
⎧ ⎫= + + +⎨ ⎬− − − −⎩ ⎭
  (1) 
3
3 2
1 2 3
( )
( 1)( )
_1 1 2 3
( 1) ( 1) ( 2) ( 3)
y
y y y
z b
Uy z
z z a z a z a
Ry Ry Ry Ryz
z z Py z Py z Py
= − − − −
⎧ ⎫= + + +⎨ ⎬− − − −⎩ ⎭
   (2) 
The intended horizontal and vertical adjustments of 
the exerting force Ux(k) and Uy(k) in the time series, 
uted inside the interval [0 1], the mean of C is greater 
than zero, by following the previous inference we can 
obtain the positive correlation as the dominate sufficient 
condition which infers PCBP and the equivalent GPLC. 
The second case (CGA>0, CG<0) and third case 
(CGA<0, GA>0) have the same interval [-1 0] which is 
different from the first case and the fourth case (CGA<0, 
GA<0). Thereafter, the mean of correlation associated 
with the second and third cases is less than zero, so we 
can deduce NCBP (GPLC) for the second case and the 
deduction NCGP (BPLC) for the third case. 
The performance is directly related to the variable 
TR, so in this section we focus on this particular one. We 
start with the horizontal axis in which three significant 
correlations CG or CGA associated with variable Ux1, 
Px1, and Ux exist. The last two variables with positive 
correlations CGA suggest that for the better archer these 
two variables should have little effect on the perform-
ance. For the first variable Ux, related to the Px1 and Rx1, 
we have a negative CG=C(C(TR,Ux1),TR) value indi-
cates that the better performance have a positive 
C(TR,Ux1). The positive C(TR,Ux1) can be further ex-
plained that the better performance is, the smaller value 
Ux1 is. 
For the vertical case, there is only one significant 
CGA(0.52) with the variable by, so it suggests that the 
lower correlation C(by, TR) is good for better perform-
ance. The variable by is related to the vertical offset at the 
1.5 second instance, so this deduction is reasonable. The 
good performance of archers should have very consistent 
adjustments along the vertical direction regardless of the 
vertical offset. Another three variables Py1(CG=-0.89), 
Ay(CG=-0.69), and T-y(CG=-0.56) all have negative 
correlations, so they all indicate that the better per-
formance is connected with positive correlations C(TR, 
Py1), C(TR, Ay) and C(TR, T-y).  
The most significant one is related to Py1 which is 
the dominate pole along the vertical direction, its positive 
correlation implies that the better performance is asso-
ciated with the smaller value of pole, in which the expo-
nential decay is fast. This implication is conceivable. 
Variable Ay is defined as the phase angle of the complex 
pair Py2 and Py3, and it is also corresponding to the os-
cillation frequency of the desired adjustment. So the 
positive C(TR, Ay) have the physical meaning that the 
slower oscillation adjustment frequency along the ver-
tical direction can result in better performance. The fast 
decay of the dominate pole and the slower oscillation 
adjustment frequency can always result in a fast settling 
time, so it is confirmed with a positive C(TR, T-y). Be-
cause the smaller radius (better performance) and the fast 
settling time have a positive relationship. The large T-d 
(CG=0.78) time difference can be easily resulted form 
the fast settling time T-y along the vertical direction, so 
this deduction can double confirmed by positive C(TR, 
Py1), C(TR, Ay) and C(TR, T-y).  
The last significant variable Ry2a (CG=0.76) indi-
cates that the negative correlation C(TR, Ry2a) in which 
the better performance can be achieved by larger Ry2a. 
This variable is a function of many variables, so it is not 
easy to explain its effect straight forward. In this section, 
the direct effect on the performance has been elaborately 
discussed their physical meanings and their relationship 
connected to each other. 
 
IV. CONCLUSIONS 
The most popular aggressive moving average with 
an exogenous input (ARMAX) has been adopted and 
tried to model the aiming trajectories of the twelve 
archers. It is noted that the recorded trajectories have 
been processed to represent the last 1.5 second before 
releasing the arrow. Variables defined from the model 
are utilized to identify their roles affecting the perform-
ance in direct or indirect way through the individual and 
global statistic correlation approaches. Based on the sig-
nificant results, some conceivable checking points are 
suggested for archers to improve their performance. The 
desired adjustments of archers without affecting by the 
stability of muscle strength are the main target in this 
paper. The desired aiming style of expertise should not 
be a high frequency adjustment. The Hamming window 
can smooth out the muscle strength effect to obtain their 
desired one.  
A simple inference based on the sufficient and 
necessary conditions principle has been proposed to link 
these variables and the performance. Variables have the 
most important direct effect on the performance have 
been analyzed as much as possible. Variable Ux, related 
to the Px1 and Rx1, has a negative CG value indicates 
that the better performance have a positive C(TR,Ux1). 
The positive C(TR,Ux1) further suggests that the better 
performance is relative to the smaller value Ux1.  
For the vertical case, there is only one significant 
CGA(0.52) with the variable by, so it suggests that the 
lower correlation C(by, TR) is good for better perform-
ance. Archers with good performance are supposed to 
have very consistent adjustments along the vertical di-
rection regardless of the vertical offset. The dominate 
pole Py1 has positive correlation with TR implies that the 
better performance is associated with the smaller value of 
pole or fast exponential decay. We have deduced that the 
slower oscillation adjustment frequency Ay is directly 
related to better performance. The fast decay of the 
dominate pole and the slower oscillation adjustment 
frequency are also linked to a fast settling time T-y.  
Moreover, the large T-d (CG=0.78) time difference can 
be easily resulted form the fast settling time T-y, so this 
deduction can double confirmed by positive C(TR, Py1), 
C(TR, Ay) and C(TR, T-y).  
 
Figure 4-2:  Performance Inference Procedure 2 
 
Figure 4-3:  Performance Inference Procedure 3
