2摘 要
影響鞋子抗滑性的因子包括鞋與地板材料、地面狀況、地板表面的粗糙度、與鞋底的
紋路設計等在文獻上已經有許多的討論。然而大部份這類的研究都是根據新的鞋與地板的
材料進行的。理論上來說，鞋材在日常使用中不斷的暴露於陽光與雨水中會逐漸的變質；
鞋底紋路在地面上不斷的滑動會磨損；鞋底不斷的撞擊地面也會造成其物理性質的改變。
本研究的假設為鞋材的不斷使用會因其物理性質改變而造成其抗滑性的降低，而這種抗滑
性的降低與鞋底材料的種類有關。本研究的目的即是要檢驗這些假設。被分為兩組的 20 位
受測者被招募來參加為期六個月的鞋子穿著實驗，同組成員將穿著同一種鞋子。新鞋與舊
鞋鞋底材料的粗糙度、耐磨性、與抗滑性將被量測與比較。在考量新鞋與舊鞋鞋底材料的
粗糙度、耐磨性、與紋路等物理性質的改變的情況下，本研究探討了鞋子之使用對於鞋底
抗滑性的影響。研究結果顯示，經過六個月的穿著後，兩種鞋子之鞋底的硬度與耐磨耗值
都未顯著改變，但鞋底的紋路與摩擦係數值均顯著的新鞋不同。
關鍵詞: 滑倒與跌倒、磨損、鞋材、抗滑性
Abstract
The factors affecting the slip-resistance of footwear such as footwear and floor materials,
floor surface conditions, floor roughness, and shoe sole tread design have been discussed in the
literature. However, most of the investigations were conducted using new footwear and floor
materials. Theoretically, shoe sole materials change after repetitive exposure to the sun and rain
during normal usage. Sliding of shoe sole on the floor results in the wear-out the tread patterns.
Repetitive impact of shoe sole on the floor may also result in physical properties change. The
hypotheses of this project were that footwear usage result in reduction in slip-resistance which
could lead to higher likelihood of slip & fall incidence and the reduction in slip-resistance is
footwear material-dependent. The objectives of this study were to test these hypotheses. Twenty
male subjects, split into two groups evenly, were recruited and tested in a footwear usage
experiment for six months. One type of footwear will be assigned to each group. The roughness,
abrasion, and slip-resistance of the shoe sole of the new and used shoes were measured and
compared. The effects of footwear usage on slip-resistance for two types of shoes tested were
discussed along with the consideration of the changes in physical properties such as hardness,
abrasion, and tread patterns. The results of the study show that the hardness and abrasive values
of the shoe soles did not change significantly after a six month usage. The tread pattern, or
sole-floor contact area, and the coefficient of friction of the used shoes were significantly
different from those of the new shoes.
Keywords: slips & falls, wear, footwear material, slip-resistance
Introduction
The significance of slipping and falling has been well-established in the literature (Perkin,
1978; Strandberg and Lanshammar, 1981; Leamon and Murphy, 1995; Courtney et al., 2001). It
was also known that the majority of slipping and falling occurred on level surfaces (Leamon and
Murphy, 1995; Courtney, et al, 2001). Determining the factors affecting floor slip slipperiness is
of paramount importance in developing interventions in the prevention of slip and fall incidents.
It is known that the friction between the sole of the shoe and floor plays a vital role in the
occurrence of a slip. Factors affecting the friction at the footwear-floor interface have been
identified in the literature (Andres & Chaffin, 1985; Chang & Matz, 2001; Chang et al., 2001b;
Chang et al., 2003; Chang et al., 2006). Shoe sole and floor material are both significant factors
4significant factors (p<0.0001) affecting the friction. Linear and non-linear regression models
describing the relationships between the tread groove design parameters (width, orientation, and
depth) and the measured coefficient of friction have been established. These models are useful in
predicting the slip-resistance for various tread groove designs of shoe soles. The results were
published in Li & Chen (2004, 2005) and Li et al. (2006).
The factors affecting the slip-resistance of footwear such as footwear and floor materials,
floor surface conditions, floor roughness, and shoe sole tread design have been discussed in the
literature (Chang 1998, 1999, 2001, 2002a; Li, et al., 2004; Li & Chen, 2004, 2005; Li et al.,
2007). However, most of the investigations were conducted using new footwear and floor
materials. Theoretically, the physical properties of shoe sole materials change after repetitive
exposure to the sun, rain during normal usage. Sliding of shoe sole on the floor results in the
wear-out the tread patterns. Repetitive impact of shoe sole on the floor may also result in shoe
sole surface changes. The hypotheses of this project are that footwear usage will result in
reduction in slip-resistance which will lead to higher likelihood of slip & fall incidence and the
reduction in slip-resistance is footwear material-dependent. Different footwear materials may
experience different changes, after been used for a certain period of time, in roughness, abrasion,
tread patterns, and even hardness which could lead to different slip-resistance. The objective of
this study is to test these hypotheses.
Methods
A friction measurement study under real footwear usage scenario will be conducted.
Footwear & floors
Two type of footwear commonly worn both at workplace and daily activities were tested. One
of them was a work shoes with hard rubber soles. The soles of rubber-soled shoes have a high
Shore-A hardness value of 79.9 (±1.5). The other type of footwear was a sneaker with a shoe sole
material of EVA with a shore-A hardness of 28.4 (±1.5). The high elasticity of EVA provides
better cushion effects and generally makes people feel more comfortable when walking. But it is
normally less abrasive than rubber.
Fourteen pairs of shoes of each type were purchased. Ten pairs for each type were worn by
the subjects in the usage test. Others were tested for unused condition in the laboratory. The
floors tested in the laboratory were vinyl and terrazzo.
Hardness gauge
A Shore-A hardness gauge was used to measure the Shore-A hardness of footwear materials.
Profilometer
The roughness of the floors samples was measured using a Mitutoyo SJ-301 surface
roughness tester. The cut-off length and the measurement length used for roughness
measurements were 2.5 and 12.5 mm, respectively. Both the Ra, also known as the center line
average of surface heights (CLA) and the Rtm, or average of peak to valley height in each cut-off
length, were measured. The measurements on the floors were made at the four locations 1 cm
away from the adjacency edges of each corner of the footwear pad striking area.
Abrasion tester
A NBS Shoe Sole Abrasion Tester was used to measure the abrasive of shoe sole materials.
The measurements of the abrasive of the footwear samples requires that the tested sample being
worn out and then compare the reading with that of a standard rubber sample to calculate the
abrasive index. Measurement of shoe sole abrasion will follow the ASTM-D1630 standard.
6Figure 1. Tread design of the EVA-soled shoes (unit: mm)
Figure 2. Tread design of the rubber-soled shoes (unit: mm)
The results of the contact area between the sole and the floor for the new and used shoe
soles for both of the rubber and EVA samples are shown in Figure 3. The standard deviations for
the rubber-soled samples were very small and the value for the new samples was near zero. The
contact area for the used rubber sole was significantly (p<0.0001) higher than that of the new
ones. For the EVA samples, the standard deviation of the used samples was larger than that of the
new samples. The difference between the new and used samples was, however, not statistically
significant.
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
rubber EVA
co
nt
ac
ta
re
a
(m
m
sq
)
new used
Figure 3. Contact area between the shoe sole and the floor
The abrasive indexes for both of the new and used shoe sole for the two types of shoes were
measured. The results are shown in Figure 4. Independent sample t-tests were conducted to
compare the difference between the new and used shoe sole for both of the rubber- and
EVA-soled samples. The results for both tests did not reach the α=0.05 significance level. The
difference between rubber and EVA samples for both the new and used samples were also tested.
For both the new and used samples, the abrasive indexes for rubber were significantly (p<0.0001)
higher than those of the EVA samples.
8shoes in a six month period of usage. Theoretically, the tread on the shoe soles worn out after a
period of usage. The squeeze film effects for such a change between the sole and the floor would
result in the decrease of slip-resistance of the sole samples on, especially, the wet floor. This was
consistent with our results in the EVA samples but not the rubber ones. The reasons why the used
rubber-soled samples testing on both the vinyl and terrazzo floors under wet condition had higher
COF values than their new counterparts were not clear. A future study is required to study the
difference between the EVA and rubber sole materials more thoroughly.
The results of this study provide information for footwear designers and manufacturers in
understanding the footwear usage problems in terms of footwear tread design, roughness,
abrasion, and slip-resistance.
References
Andres, R.O., Chaffin, D.B., 1985. Ergonomic analysis of slip-resistance measurement device.
Ergonomics 28, 1065-1079.
American Society for Testing and Materials, F-1677-96, 2005. Standard method of test for using
a portable inclinable articulated strut slip tester (PIAST), Annual Book of ASTM Standards.
vol. 15.07. West Conshohochen, PA, American Society for Testing and Materials.
American Society for Testing and Materials, F-1630-06, 2007. Standard Test Method for Rubber
Property-Abrasion Resistance (Footwear Abrader), Annual Book of ASTM Standards. West
Conshohochen, PA, American Society for Testing and Materials.
Chang, W.R., 1998. The effect of surface roughness on dynamic friction between neolite and
quarry tile. Safety Science 29, 89-105.
Chang, W.R., 1999. The effect of surface roughness on the measurement of slip resistance.
International Journal of Industrial Ergonomics 24, 299-313.
Chang, W.R., 2001. The effect of surface roughness and contaminant on the dynamic friction of
porcelain tile. Applied Ergonomics 32, 173-184.
Chang, W.R., Kim, I.J., Manning, D.P., Bunterngchit, Y., 2001a. The role of surface roughness in
the measurement of slipperiness. Ergonomics 44, 1200-1216.
Chang, W-R, Grönqvist, R., Leclercq, S., Myung, R., Makkonen L., Strandberg, L., Brungraber,
R.J., Mattke, U., Thorpe, S.C. 2001b. The role of friction in the measurement of slipperiness,
Part 1: friction mechanisms and definition of test conditions, Ergonomics 44(13), 1217-1232.
Chang, W.R., 2002a. The effects of surface roughness and contaminants on the dynamic friction
between porcelain tile and vulcanized rubber. Safety Science 40, 577-591.
Chang, W.R., 2002b. The effects of slip criteria and time on friction measurements. Safety Sciece
40, 593-611.
Chang, W.R., Cotnam, J. P., Matz, S., 2003. Field evaluation of two commonly used slipmeters.
Applied Ergonomics 34(1), 51-60.
Chang, W.R., Li, K.W., Huang, Y-H, Filiaggi, A., Courtney, T.K. 2004. Assessing floor
slipperiness in fast-food restaurants in Taiwan using objective and subjective measures.
Applied Ergonomics 35, 401-408.
Chang, W. R., Li, K. W., Huang, Y. H., Filiaggi, A. and Courtney, T. K., 2006, Objective and
subjective measurements of slipperiness in fast-food restaurants in the USA and their
