摘要 
全人工關節置換是治療嚴重骨性關節炎最有效的方法之一。然而人工關節長時間
使用後，產生的磨耗顆粒會刺激導致骨溶解。超高分子量聚乙烯常使用在人工關
節面上，使關節帶有少許的彈性，但其磨耗速率相對較快，且磨耗顆粒容易活化
巨噬細胞產生細胞激素，促進蝕骨細胞進行骨溶解，最後造成關節鬆脫。因此本
論文將要研究不同大小形狀數量之超高分子量聚乙烯顆粒引起的巨噬細胞反應。  
用細胞培養法研究超高分子量聚乙烯顆粒的細胞反應時，因為顆粒密度較小，容
易浮在培養基表層，不易與貼附在培養盤上的細胞接觸。為了解決這個問題，所
以將培養盤倒置，使貼附在培養盤上的細胞可以與浮起的超高分子量聚乙烯顆粒
相互接觸。為了確認倒置培養的巨噬細胞可以被活化並分泌細胞激素，把脂多醣
加入倒置培養或正常培養的細胞中，結果兩組細胞活性都比沒加脂多醣時高，且
細胞激素 TNF-α增加。  
測試不同大小形狀超高分子量聚乙烯顆粒對巨噬細胞的影響時，同一組實驗使用
的顆粒大小形狀必須盡量一致。這裡利用半導體製程在晶圓上製造出均勻的表面
型態，將超高分子量聚乙烯在上面摩擦，產生磨耗顆粒。不同的表面型態可製造
不同大小的顆粒。以電子顯微鏡分析，發現磨耗顆粒多偏長形，與臨床上看到的
磨耗顆粒類似，且各組表面型態產生的磨耗顆粒形狀大小分布都很窄。  
當超高分子量聚乙烯顆粒數量增加時，巨噬細胞的活性被抑制且 TNF-α 分泌增
加。比較小的顆粒比大顆粒容易引發更多的 TNF-α分泌。所以減少材料的磨耗
速率或避免產生較小的顆粒都可能增加全人工關節的壽命。  
倒置細胞培養法可以方便觀察細胞受超高分子量聚乙烯顆粒刺激時在不同環境
下的表現。因此未來在發展預防或治療人工關節磨耗顆粒引起的骨溶解時，可以
應用倒置細胞培養法來測試藥物的效果。物理因子對骨溶解過程的影響，也能用
倒置細胞培養法來觀察。  
 
2. Materials and methods 
A micro-cutting process has been facilitated to generate UHMWPE wear 
particles. Figure 1 is a schematic of the concept. Cutting edges on the surface were 
designed and microfabricated. The articulation between UHMWPE and the textured 
surface was carried out by a wear tester to generate UHMWPE particles with specific 
size and shape. The generated UHMWPE wear particles were collected and applied in 
a newly developed inverted cell culture system. The detailed procedures of 
UHMWPE particle preparation and inverted cell culture are described below:   
 
2.1 Microfabrication of textured surfaces 
The silicon wafer surface with micro-cutting edges was prepared by 
photolithography patterning and etching of the bulk substrate. A schematic of the 
microfabrication process is shown in Figure 2. Wedge-shaped features on the surface 
control pins were weighed three times. Three control pins were soaked in the lubricant 
at the same liquid level as the wear-testing condition. Prior to the test, all parts 
involved in the experiments were immersed overnight at room temperature in a 
solution containing 70% ethanol and 30% purified water (volume ratio) for 
sterilization purposes. The UHMWPE pin was then mounted on the tester. Linear 
reciprocating wear tests were run under a nominal contact pressure of 3 MPa, a stroke 
length of 19 mm, a frequency of 1.5 Hz, and an average sliding speed of 57.2 mm/s. 
After wear testing, the four pins were weighed and the wear loss of the testing pin was 
obtained after adjusting the weight change from the control pins. 
 
2.4 Collection and analysis of wear particles 
After the wear tests, the UHMWPE particles generated in water were collected 
by repeated rinsing of the sample, sample holder, and parts that came into contact 
with particles, into a sterilized beaker. The procedure has been optimized to achieve a 
90% particle recovery rate [17]. To collect the particles generated in albumin solution, 
5N NaOH solution was used to digest the albumin and to reduce the endotoxin 
content in a 65℃ water bath for 24 h. The digested solution was then collected into a 
sterilized beaker. The UHMWPE particles suspended in water were then collected on 
a 0.1 µm pore size membrane through a vacuum filtration process. Due to the particle 
generation was carried out by rubbing the Cr coated silicon surface textures with 
UHMWPE, there may exist residual Cr ions in the solution and stimulate the 
biological response which has been indicated previously [22]. Thus, large quantity of 
endotoxin free purified water was applied to rinse and flush out any possible 
contaminants. 
For particle analysis purpose, purified isopropyl alcohol (0.1 µm filtered) was 
added and the particles were dispersed in an ultrasonic water bath for 3 minutes. 
Particles that were dispersed well in a known volume of the solution were collected 
on a 0.1 µm pore size membrane through a vacuum filtration process. The particles 
collected on the filter paper were examined by using a scanning electron microscope.  
Micrographs of the particles were then analyzed by using image analyzer software 
(Scion Image, a PC version of NIH Image) to measure their dimensions.  
Measurements were made for at least 300 particles in each case. The particles were 
tested to be endotoxin free by using a Limulus Amebocyte Lysate assay kit (Endosafe, 
SC) [19]. The chemical composition of collected particles was confirmed as 
polyethylene by FTIR measurement (Nicolet) [17]. 
 
2.5 Inverted cell culturing procedures 
 
