中、英文摘要及關鍵詞(keywords)
計畫中文摘要：
現有的波浪發電裝置可分為水力式及氣壓式兩大類。較常見的發電機
都是以旋轉的方式在運動，使得一般人認為一定要旋轉才能發電，造成現有
的波浪發電系統都竭盡所能地以各種方式，將波浪上下起伏或左右搖擺的運
動方式，以水輪機或氣渦輪機改變為旋轉的運動方式，以便帶動旋轉式的發
電機來產生電力。上述先前技術的共同缺點為：波浪能經過多次轉換，先轉
換成液壓、氣壓或水的位能，再以水輪機或氣渦輪機轉換成旋轉運動，再帶
動旋轉式發電機轉換成電能。然而，多一次的轉換就多一層的損失，也造成
系統複雜、操控與維護困難，以及成本居高不下等缺點。本研究提出另一種
波浪發電方式，在不需要水輪機、氣渦輪機與旋轉式發電機等裝置前提下，
直接以波浪上下起伏或左右搖擺的運動，使線圈中的磁場改變，進而產生電
力的波浪發電方式。
關鍵詞：波浪發電、水輪發電機、氣渦輪發電機
計畫英文摘要：
The present wave power generating system can be subdivided into hydrodynamic system
and atmospheric pressure system. Conventionally, a hydraulic turbine or gas turbine is installed
in an ocean wave power generator. A turbine is a rotary device per se. This gives an impression
to people that electricity can be generated only by a turbine or the like. The prior turbine based
electricity generation suffered from several disadvantages. For example, energy of waves is
converted into high pressure liquid or air which in turn impinges vanes of a hydraulic turbine or
gas turbine for rotating the same. Finally, the generator is driven by the hydraulic turbine or gas
turbine for generating electricity. Such multiple energy conversions can consume energy
significantly, i.e., lower energy conversion efficiency. Further, it can complicate the electric
generation system, resulting in an increase in the installation and maintenance costs.
Furthermore, the turbine can be eliminated for simplifying construction as viewed by the present
research.
Keywords: Wave power generating systems, water turbine generators, air turbine generators.
可供推廣之研發成果資料表
□ 可申請專利 □ 可技術移轉 ◎已獲准專利 日期： 年 月 日
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱：波浪發電之研究
計畫主持人：卓胡誼
計畫編號：NSC 94-2213-E-168-012
學門領域：電機機械
技術/創作名稱 Apparatus for converting wave energy into electrical energy
發明人/創作人 卓胡誼
中文：
本發明是提供一種波浪發電方式，由浮體、槓桿、磁鐵、彈簧、
鐵鑫、線圈等所組成，主要採在不需運用水輪機、氣渦輪機與旋轉
式發電機，直接以波浪上下起伏或左右搖擺的運動，使線圈中的磁
場改變，進而產生電力之發電系統。
技術說明
英文：
An ocean wave energy conversion apparatus comprises a
floating section comprising a float and a lever having one end
coupled to the float; and a fixed section mounted on a seacoast,
ship, or production platform and comprising a magnet coupled to
the other end of the lever, parallel cores together with the magnet
for forming a magnetic circuit, parallel electric coils, resilient
means adjacent the magnet interconnected the lever and the
magnet, barriers each disposed between two adjacent the core,
and support means. An upward motion of the float caused by the
impact of waves will move the magnet downward by the lever
and compress the resilient means, a downward motion of the
float will move the magnet upward by the lever and expand the
resilient means, and a repeated movement of the magnet will
induce a voltage in the electric coils.
可利用之產業
及
可開發之產品
再生能源發電業
已經獲准美國發明專利 US 7012340 號，以及英國發明專利
GB2402557 號
技術特點
不需運用水輪機、氣渦輪機與旋轉式發電機，直接以波浪上下起伏
或左右搖擺的運動，使線圈中的磁場改變，進而產生電力之發電系
統。
附件二
