 1
Chap. 1  Introduction 
The immense usage of wireless local area network (WLAN) applications and cellular phone 
systems in civilian purpose has increased the needs for microwave circuit components which 
include filters, antennas, mixers, and amplifiers.  Among them, the filters are usually playing an 
essential role in every microwave system. Filters embedded in microwave systems for various 
purposes often exceed other microwave components in quantity.  In view of filter structures, the 
planar configuration has attracted many researchers’ attention for the advantages of low profile, 
low cost, light weight, and easy of fabrication. To this end, tremendous amount of literatures 
have been published for planar filters of a variety of configurations and purposes.  Nevertheless, 
the demand of filters in miniature size and better performance is always a challenge to 
investigators. Besides, they might be required to exhibit a harmonic-suppression property and 
frequency-tuning ability for individual purposes.   
Among various planar structures, stepped impedance resonator (SIR) has been widely referred 
and devoted to the filter designs in past decade [1-3]. They have demonstrated the properties of 
easy control of resonant frequencies and the benefit of low loss.  A number of precursors used it 
for the design of single-band or dual-band bandpass filters [1, 2]. However, in a dual-band design, 
one often needs to utilize SIR’s higher-order mode (more often the second harmonic) as well as 
its fundamental mode.  In such cases, a cascade of more than two SIR units might need to 
enhance the filter’s performance, which results in a larger circuit size.  In a single-passband 
application, the resonator’s vicious second harmonic is often managed to be pushed from twice 
of fundamental resonant frequency to a higher frequency by a proper impedance-ratio design of 
SIR.  
The studies dealing with harmonic response by every conceivable means were proposed 
recently [4, 5].  Recently, voltage-controlled RF circuits that show a wide frequency-tuning 
range and low insertion losses may appear to be much more attractive for commercial and 
military wireless applications [6]. However, filter structure having properties of frequency 
flexibility, harmonic suppression, and a zero assignment is rarely seen in the literatures. Filter 
design incorporated with both the harmonic suppression and frequency-tuning accounting for a 
wide stopband bandwidth (BW) and a transformable passband, respectively, are renovated in RF 
front-end components in WLAN systems. 
In this paper, we proposed a folded SIR (termed as a stepped impedance hairpin resonator, 
SIHR, from its hairpin shape) filter design which demonstrates an easy method to suppress the 
second harmonic without building extra circuits. In addition, a pair of varactors may be 
incorporated with the proposed filter to electrically tune the passband range.  In the design 
procedure, filter’s second harmonic frequency is adequately chosen without significantly 
affecting the pass-band skirt responses. Then, a novel but simple U-shaped coupling structure 
together with a tapped-in feed is introduced to improve the insertion losses and to suppress 
SIHR’s second harmonic without costing any extra effort and additional circuit size. Moreover, 
the electronically tuning of the circuit via the access of varactors shows a 22% tuning range with 
its insertion losses kept within an acceptable scope. Also, a controllable transmission zero can be 
implanted to the circuit to further improve the pass-band’s skirt responses.  
Chap. 2 SIHR Design 
Fig. 1(a) shows the configurations of an SIHR stretched from traditional SIR structure [7] and 
Fig. 1(b) demonstrates a conventional SIHR bandpass filter (part A + part B) composed by a 
 3
the impedance ratio for a symmetric case is 1. 
Herein, a precise way for our design is to have the U-shaped coupling characteristic 
impedance ,2 1b ZZ =  that implies 5.0// == bcbp1c1p ZZZZ . Thus, the overall impedance 
ratio of the U-shaped coupling structure takes the quantity of 1 analog to symmetric coupled 
lines.  Shown in Fig. 2(b) is the comparison of simulated frequency responses for this proposed 
feed and the conventional edge-coupling structure. These curves are obtained based on the same 
SIHR with the same coupling gap width for both cases. And the performance of U-shape 
coupling is better than the other by 1.22 dB in the insertion loss sense.  
B.  Tapped-in U-Shaped Coupling Feed 
Convenient harmonic suppression without adding extra circuits are rarely seen in literatures. 
Striving to find a simple harmonic suppression method is not an easy task. In our proposed filter 
structure, a proper design of tapped-in feed structure in conjunction with the U-shape coupling 
exhibits a property of suppressing the transmitting signal beyond the fundamental resonance 
frequency without affecting the circuit’s frequency response in the passband. Consequently, the 
second harmonic might be successfully suppressed. From extensive simulations and numerous 
experiment validations, a circuit illustrated in Fig. 3 with a proper chosen tapped-in position, d, 
is applied in the circuit to have an optimal harmonic suppression. Noting that s represents the 
withdrawn coupling length that used to de-compensate the additional coupling from the bottom 
of the U-shape structure. 
Shown in Fig. 4 are the plots of simulated frequency responses for structure of Fig. 3 with 
different tapped-in positions.  In the figure, s is fixed to 0.8 mm, and the curves are obtained 
from choosing d to be 0, 1, 2 and 3 (all in unit of mm) for a tangible observation of harmonic 
suppression evaluation. It is convinced that the stopband performance should reach to the 
optimum under the condition of d = 0 mm.  
Chap. 4  Electrical Tuning and Zero Assignment 
Normally, an electronic tuning of circuits is achieved by means of using YIG, varactor, PET, 
and etc.  In consideration of easy fabrication and low manufacturing cost, varactor might be the 
obvious choice for RF designers. Hence, varactors are engaged in our tuning scheme as depicted 
in Fig. 5(a).  The varactors are soldered between each of the SIHR’s open-ends and a virtual 
ground beneath the U-shape coupling feed. The virtual ground is realized by a piece of large 
sized patch close to the bottom of the U-shaped structure. This patch functions as a large 
capacitor between the varactors and the ground providing a short circuit of the RF signal to the 
ground plane. Existing of the virtual ground annihilates the need of via drilling, and simplifies 
the circuit structure. 
A shunt open stub realized by a SIR, shown in Fig. 5(a), is originally built for a RF choke 
while a biased voltage is applied to the varactors. Upon a proper design, the resonance of the 
shunt SIR results in a transmission zero of the SIHR filter, and the impedance ratio K that 
governing the zero is expressed as: 
   43 cotcot θθ==
4
3
Z
ZK                       (5) 
To improve the passband’s skirt response, a controllable transmission zero with K = 4.8 is 
implanted in the circuit with its occurrence assigned close to the upper edge of passband (it can 
 5
References 
1 Jen-Tsai Kuo and Eric Shih, “Microwave stepped impedance resonator bandpass filter 
with an extended optimal rejection bandwidth,” IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory & Tech., 
51 (2003), pp. 1554-1559. 
2 H. M. Lee, C. R. Chen, C. C. Tsai, and C. M. Tsai, “Dual-band coupling and feed 
structure for microstrip filter design,” 2004 IEEE MTT-S Int. Microwave Symp. Dig., 3 
(2004), pp. 1971-1974. 
3 A. F. Sheta, J. P. Coupez, G. Tanné, S. Toutain, and J. P. Blot, “Miniature microstrip 
stepped impedance resonator bandpass filters and diplexers for mobile communication,” 
1996 IEEE MTT-S Int. Microwave Symp. Dig., 2 (1996), pp. 607-610. 
4 Jen-Tsai Kuo, Wei-Hsiu Hsu, and Wei-Ting. Huang, “Design of parallel-coupled 
microstrip filters with suppression of harmonic resonances using substrate suspension,” 
IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory & Tech., 52 (2004), pp. 83-89. 
5 Lei Zhu and Ke Wu, “Accurate circuit model of interdigital capacitor and its application 
to design quasi-lumped miniaturized filters with suppression of harmonic resonance,” 
IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory & Tech., 48 (2000), pp. 347-356. 
6 Germán Torregrosa-Penalva, Gustavo López-Risueño, and José I. Alonso, “A simple 
method to design wide-band electronically tunable combline filters,” IEEE Trans. 
Microwave Theory & Tech., 50 (2002), pp. 172-177. 
7 Mitsuo Makimoto and Sadahiko Yamashita, “Bandpass filter using parallel coupled 
stripline stepped impedance resonators,” IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory & Tech., 28 
(1980), pp. 1413-1417. 
8 K. C. Gupta, Ramesh Garg, Inder Bahl, and Prakash Bhartia, Microstrip Lines and 
Slotlines, 2nd ed., Boston: Artech House, 1996. 
 
 7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4  The frequency response of Fig. 3 for different d (in mm). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                   (a)                              (b) 
 
Fig. 5  (a) A varactor-tuned SIHR filter with a shunt SIR open stub and (b) the corresponding 
measured and simulated frequency responses with absence of tuning varactors. 
 
 
Fig. 6  The photograph of the experimental SIHR BPFs built for performance evaluations. 
 
 
 
 
 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
Frequency (GHz)
-60
-40
-20
0
|S
21
| (
dB
)
0
1
2
3
d (mm)
1.8 2.2 2.6 3
Frequency (GHz)
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
|S
21
| (
dB
)
Simulated S21
Measured S21
w/o open stub
 9
計畫成果自評 
（1）學術方面： 
本計畫預期完成一種可調式帶通濾波器電路，計畫成果產生兩篇期刊論文與兩篇
國際會議論文。 
A. Journal paper 
1.  Y.-W. Chen and M.-H. Ho, “Stepped Impedance Hairpin Design of a Tunable Bandpass  
Filter with Harmonic Suppression,” Microwave and Optical Technology Lett., vol. 48, no. 4, 
pp. 697-701, Apr. 2006. (SCI Expanded, EI) 
2. Yu-Wei Chen, Min-Hua Ho, and Zhen-Mao Rao, “A Tunable Bandpass Filter Using the Stepped 
Impedance Resonator with Harmonic Suppression, Intl. Journal of Microwave and Opt. 
Technol., vol. 1, no. 2, pp. ??, Aug. 2006. 
B: Conference paper 
1. Hao-Hung Ho, Chen-Mao Rao, and Min-Hua Ho, “The 2.4/5-GHz Dual-Band Bandpass 
Filter with Wide Bandwidth and Multiple Zeros,” Cross Strait Tri-Regional Radio Science 
and Wireless Technology Conference 2006, pp. 112-115, Aug. 2006. 
2. Zhen-Mao Rao, Tzu-Jung Wong, and Min-Hua Ho, “Forked Step Impedance Resonator 
Bandpass Filter with Harmonics Suppression,” in Proceeding of APMC’05, vol. 1, pp. 
397-400, Suzhou China, Dec. 2005. (EI) 
（2）教育與訓練： 
本計畫之執行包含原理的應用、電路之分析、電路製作、電磁模擬的使用與相關
儀器測試，相信這些過程足以提供培養研究人才之機會。同時對於所有參與研究的研
究同學不論未來將投入學術界或進入產業界都將為整個國家社會注入新血。而這些參
與研究的人員也將具有以下的技能： 
（1）對於應用在藍芽或是無線區網的元件設計規範有正確的了解。並且能獨立分析
並設計出一個實用的濾波器。 
（2）對於電磁模擬軟體能相當的熟悉。這將有助於學生在進入業界後不至於產生過
大的落差，也可以省去業界多餘的訓練時間。 
（3）在定期的集會中，學生將被訓練為具備獨立思考、團隊合作精神以及英文寫作、
報告的能力等等的專業人才，這無論對國內的學術或是產業來說，都是一項很
大的幫助。 
此外，對於新進得大學部專題生也達成了認識通訊領域知識技能以及學習正確的研究
態度等等功效。而他們也將具備以下特質： 
（1）具有能正確找出問題並找出解決方式的能力，這將有助於這些學生在進入研究
所就讀時，能有獨立克服問題的能力。 
（2）具有基本的電腦輔助設計軟體技能，包含：模擬軟體、數學軟體、佈線軟體等。
這對無論將來要繼續深造或是就業的大學生來說都是一大幫助。 
 
20-dB band rejection. A measured minimum insertion loss of 1.19 dB is
observed for the circuit with absence of the tuning varactors. Using the
varactors, this ﬁlter has achieved a 22% frequency tuning range with all
the insertion losses less than 5 dB. © 2006 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Microwave Opt Technol Lett 48: 697–701, 2006; Published online in
Wiley InterScience (www.interscience.wiley.com). DOI 10.1002/mop.
21447
Key words: tunable ﬁlter; stepped impedance hairpin; harmonic sup-
pression; zero assignment
1. INTRODUCTION
The immense usage of wireless local area network (WLAN) ap-
plications and cellular phone systems in civilian applications has
increased the need for microwave circuit components, which in-
clude ﬁlters, antennas, mixers, and ampliﬁers. Among them, the
ﬁlters are usually playing an essential role in every microwave
system. Filters embedded in microwave systems for various pur-
poses often exceed other microwave components in quantity. In
view of ﬁlter structures, the planar conﬁguration has attracted
many researchers’ attention for the advantages of low proﬁle, low
cost, light weight, and ease of fabrication. To this end, a tremen-
dous amount of literature has been published for planar ﬁlters of a
variety of conﬁgurations and purposes. Nevertheless, the demand
of ﬁlters in miniature size and better performance is always a
challenge to investigators. Besides, they might be required to
exhibit a harmonic-suppression property and frequency-tuning
ability for individual purposes.
Among various planar structures, stepped impedance resona-
tors (SIRs) have been widely referred to and devoted to ﬁlter
designs in the past decade [1–3]. They have demonstrated the
properties of easy control of resonant frequencies and the beneﬁt
of low loss. A number of precursors used it for the design of
single-band or dual-band bandpass ﬁlters [1, 2]. However, in a
dual-band design, one often needs to utilize the SIR’s higher-order
mode (most often the 2nd harmonic) as well as its fundamental
mode. In such cases, a cascade of more than two SIR units might
be needed to enhance the ﬁlter’s performance, which results in a
larger circuit size. In a single-passband application, the resonator’s
vicious 2nd harmonic is often managed to be pushed from twice of
fundamental resonant frequency to a higher frequency through a
proper impedance-ratio design of the SIR.
Studies dealing with harmonic response by every conceivable
means have been proposed [4, 5]. Recently, voltage-controlled RF
circuits that show a wide frequency-tuning range and low insertion
losses may appear to be much more attractive for commercial and
military wireless applications [6]. However, ﬁlter structures having
properties of frequency ﬂexibility, harmonic suppression, and zero
assignment are rarely seen in the literature. Filter design incorpo-
rating both harmonic suppression and frequency-tuning, account-
ing for a wide stopband bandwidth (BW) and a transformable
passband, respectively, is renovated in RF front-end components
in WLAN systems.
In this paper, we propose a folded SIR (termed as a stepped
impedance hairpin resonator, SIHR, from its hairpin shape) ﬁlter
design which demonstrates an easy method to suppress the 2nd
harmonic without building extra circuits. In addition, a pair of
varactors may be incorporated with the proposed ﬁlter in order to
electrically tune the passband range. In the design procedure,
ﬁlter’s 2nd harmonic frequency is adequately chosen without sig-
niﬁcantly affecting the passband skirt responses. Then, a novel but
simple U-shaped coupling structure together with a tapped-in feed
is introduced to improve the insertion losses and to suppress the
SIHR’s 2nd harmonic without costing any extra effort and addi-
tional circuit size. Moreover, the electronically tuning of the circuit
via the access of varactors shows a 22% tuning range with its
insertion losses kept within an acceptable scope. Also, a control-
lable transmission zero can be implanted to the circuit to further
improve the passband’s skirt responses.
2. SIHR DESIGN
Figure 1(a) shows the conﬁgurations of an SIHR stretched from
traditional SIR structure [7] and Figure 1(b) demonstrates a con-
ventional SIHR bandpass ﬁlter (part A  part B) composed by a
SIHR and the I/O coupling microstrip. This SIHR is adopted as the
resonance component in our ﬁlter design. According to [7], the
input impedance from the view of the open end can be obtained as
follows:
ZIN jZ1 2TR2  1tan 1tan 22TR  tan 1tan 2tan 1  TRtan 2

TR1 tan211 tan22
2TR  tan 1tan 2tan 1  TRtan 2, (1)
where TR deﬁnes the ratio of Z1/Z2 with Z1 and Z2 standing for the
characteristic impedances of the SIHR shown in Figure 1(a).
Under resonance (Zin approaching inﬁnity), the relationship be-
tween impedances and lengths can be derived as
TR 
tan 1
cot 2
. (2)
Then, the location of the 2nd harmonic can be found in terms of TR
and the center frequency fo:
TR  tan2f02fS (3)
Figure 1 (a) Structure of SIHR and (b) SIHR bandpass ﬁlter
698 MICROWAVE AND OPTICAL TECHNOLOGY LETTERS / Vol. 48, No. 4, April 2006 DOI 10.1002/mop
ﬁgure, s is ﬁxed to 0.8 mm, and the curves are obtained from
choosing d to be 0, 1, 2, and 3 (all in mm) for a tangible
observation of harmonic-suppression evaluation. It is convinced
that the stopband performance should reach to the optimum under
the condition of d  0 mm.
4. ELECTRICAL TUNING AND ZERO ASSIGNMENT
Normally, an electronic tuning of circuits is achieved by means of
using YIG, a varactor, PET, and so forth. In consideration of easy
fabrication and low manufacturing cost, a varactor might be the
obvious choice for RF designers. Hence, varactors are engaged in
our tuning scheme, as depicted in Figure 5(a). The varactors are
soldered between each of the SIHR’s open ends and a virtual
ground beneath the U-shape coupling feed. The virtual ground is
realized using a piece of a large-sized patch close to the bottom of
the U-shaped structure. This patch functions as a large capacitor
between the varactors and the ground providing a short circuit of
the RF signal to the ground plane. The existence of the virtual
ground annihilates the need of via drilling, and simpliﬁes the
circuit structure.
A shunt open stub realized by a SIR, shown in Figure 5(a), was
originally built for a RF choke while a biased voltage was applied
to the varactors. Upon realizing a proper design, the resonance of
the shunt SIR results in a transmission zero of the SIHR ﬁlter, and
the impedance ratio K that governing the zero is expressed as
K 
Z3
Z4
 cot 3cot 4. (5)
To improve the passband’s skirt response, a controllable transmis-
sion zero with K  4.8 was implanted in the circuit with its
occurrence assigned close to the upper edge of the passband (it can
be the lower edge in either case) in order to deepen the passband
upper skirt (or lower skirt).
5. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
Figure 6 shows a photograph of the fabricated SIHR BPF circuit
without the SIR open stub and varactors and the circuit with a RF
choke and varactors. The experimental circuit of Figure 5(a) with-
out the varactors can be also referred to in Figure 6. All the
experimental circuits are fabricated on a 0.635-mm-thick RT/
Duroid 6010 substrate along with dielectric constant 10.2 and loss
tangent 0.0023. Before embarking on experiments, a full-wave EM
simulator (Ansoft Designer 1.0) is used to verify our design for
strict simulated responses.
The SIHR for the experimental evaluation has dimensions of
1  2  40°, TR  0.7, and Z1 is equal to 37.9. The related
parameters of U-shaped coupling are Zb  76.2, Z1o  35,
Z1e  40.5, Z1p  43.35, Z1c  21.65, Zbp  113.4, and
Zbc  56.6 along with s  0.8 and d  0 mm. The desired
center frequency of the passband and the pushed-upward harmonic
are located at 2.45 and 5.5 GHz, respectively. As shown in Figure
5(a), the additional zero realized by the shunt SIR stub is placed at
2.59 GHz (3  25°, 4  18.6°, and Z3  76.2). Figure 5(b)
shows a comparison of the circuit-frequency responses with and
without SIR open stub, and the varactors are missing here for these
curves. It has clearly demonstrated the effect of the implanted zero
occurred at about 2.6 GHz, which is very close to its designed
Figure 5 (a) A varactor-tuned SIHR ﬁlter with a shunt SIR open stub
and (b) the corresponding measured and simulated frequency responses
with absence of tuning varactors
Figure 7 The measured and simulated frequency responses of the SIHR
BPF structure of Fig. 3
Figure 6 The photograph of the experimental SIHR BPFs built for
performance evaluations
700 MICROWAVE AND OPTICAL TECHNOLOGY LETTERS / Vol. 48, No. 4, April 2006 DOI 10.1002/mop
      INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF MICROWAVE AND OPTICAL TECHNOLOGY  
 
VOL.1, NO. 2, AUGUST 2006  
 
 
IJMOT-2006-4-13 © ISRAMT 2006 
 
 
 A Tunable Bandpass Filter Using the Stepped Impedance 
Resonator with Harmonic Suppression  
 
Yu-Wei Chen, Min-Hua Ho*, and Zhen-Mao Rao 
 
Graduate Institute of Communication Engineering and Department of Electronic Engineering,  
National Changhua University of Education 
Changhua 50007, Taiwan 
*Tel: +886-4-7128241; Fax: +886-4-7211078; E-mail: ho@cc.ncue.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract- Stepped impedance resonator with 
harmonic suppression and capability of frequency 
tuning have been incorporated into a bandpass filter 
design.  A tapped-in U-shaped feed structure is 
introduced in the design to suppress harmonic and 
to reduce the passband insertion losses.  The 
passband flexibility is accomplished by using a pair 
of tuning varactors. A simple method to implant a 
zero in the frequency response is also studied herein 
to further deepen the pass-band skirt. A 163% (4 
GHz) stopband bandwidth is observed under over 
20 dB band rejection.  A measured minimum 
insertion loss of 1.27 dB is observed for the circuit 
with absence of the tuning varactors. Using the 
varactors, this filter has achieved a 21.9% frequency 
tuning range with all the insertion losses less than 5 
dB. 
 
Index Terms- tunable filter, microstrip resonators, 
varactors, zero assignment. 
 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
 
The blooming in applications of wireless local area 
network (WLAN) and cellular phone systems in 
civilian purpose has increased the needs for 
microwave circuit components which include 
filters, antennas, mixers, and amplifiers.  Among 
them, the filters are usually playing an essential 
role for every microwave system. Filters 
embedded in microwave systems for various 
purposes often exceed other microwave 
components in quantity.  In view of filter 
structures, the planar configuration has attracted 
many researchers’ attention for the advantages of 
low profile, low cost, light weight, and easy of 
fabrication. To this end, tremendous amount of 
literatures have been published for planar filters of 
a variety of configurations and purposes.  
Nevertheless, the demand of filters in miniature 
size and better performance has always been a 
challenge to investigators. Besides, they might be 
required to exhibit a harmonic-suppression 
property and frequency-tuning ability for 
individual purposes.  
  
Among various planar structures, stepped 
impedance resonator (SIR) has been widely 
adverted and applied to the filter designs in past 
decade [1]-[3]. They have demonstrated the 
properties of easy control of resonant frequencies 
and the benefit of low loss.  A number of 
precursors used it for the design of single-band or 
dual-band bandpass filters [1, 2]. However, in a 
dual-band design, one often needs to utilize SIR’s 
higher-order mode (more often the second 
harmonic) as well as the fundamental mode.  In 
the case, a cascade of more than two SIR units 
might need to enhance the filter’s performance, 
which results in a larger circuit size.  In a 
single-band case, the nasty second harmonic is 
often managed to be pushed from twice of 
fundamental resonant frequency to a higher 
frequency band with a proper design of SIR.  
 
Filter design with harmonic suppression and 
frequency-tuning accounting for a wider stopband 
bandwidth (BW) and a transformative pass-band, 
respectively, are welcomed for RF front-end 
components in WLAN systems. Studies dealing 
with harmonic response by every conceivable 
means were proposed recently [4, 5].  Recently, 
voltage-controlled RF circuits that show a wide 
  INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF MICROWAVE AND OPTICAL TECHNOLOGY 
 
VOL.1, NO. 2, AUGUST 2006  
 
 
IJMOT-2006-4-13 © ISRAMT 2006 
 
 
follows: 
1) TR < 1, total length is shorter than half 
wavelength; 
2) TR  = 1, total length is equal to half 
wavelength; 
3) TR > 1, total length is longer than half 
wavelength. 
Next, we estimate the frequency of second 
harmonic. Under the resonance condition, the 
second solution of eqn. (1) stands for the second 
harmonic frequency value which can be derived 
from eqn. (3) in terms of TR and the fundamental 
resonant frequency fo.  
            ⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛=
S
o
R
f
f
2
tan 2 πT             (3) 
It should be mentioned that eqn. (3) is valid only 
under an assumption that θ1 is nearly identical to θ2. 
The summery of eqn. (3) states as  
a)   TR < 1, fs is pushed up from 2 fo; 
b)   TR  = 1, fs is equal to 2 fo; 
c)   TR > 1, fs is less than 2 fo;. 
Consequently, TR < 1 is chosen for reasons that the 
circuit not only has a smaller size of circuit, but a 
wider frequency separation between the 
fundamental and the second harmonic as well.  In 
the design, an appropriate harmonic location is 
determined to be 2.25 multiples of our desirable 
passband’s central frequency, 2.45 GHz, with TR 
being equal to 0.7.  An impractically valued TR 
might cause a manufacturing precision problem 
and deteriorates filter’s performance. 
 
 
III. NOVEL HARMONIC SUPPRESSION 
METHOD 
 
A. U-Shaped coupling feed method 
 
Shown in Fig. 3(a), a much stronger coupling-feed 
structure is proposed hereby to replace for a 
conventional edge-coupling feed in the design. As 
a result, the U-shaped coupling structure is used to 
gain the benefit of low insertion loss. The essential 
U-shaped coupling design is based on an 
asymmetric coupled lines structure [8]. 
Theoretically, the impedances that governing c 
mode and π  mode, which represent the 
quasi-even and quasi-odd mode for asymmetric 
coupled lines, respectively, can be expressed as: 
 
cb
πb
πc
co
πo
Z
ZRR
Z
Z =−=  (4) 
where Rc is the voltage ratio for c mode and Rπ 
represents that of π mode. Meanwhile, the 
impedance ratio for a symmetric case is 
 1==
ca
πa
co
πo
Z
Z
Z
Z  (5) 
Herein, a precise way for our design is to let the 
U-shaped coupling characteristic impedance bee 
,2 ab ZZ = that implies 5.0// == cbπbcoπo ZZZZ . 
Thus, the overall impedance ratio of the U-shaped 
coupling structure takes the quantity of 1 analog to 
symmetric coupled lines.  Shown in Fig. 3(b) is 
the comparison of conventional edge-coupling and 
this proposed feed in terms of the frequency 
response. These simulated curves are based on the 
same coupled SIR structure with the same gap 
width. The performance of latter is better than that 
of the former by 1.276 dB in the insertion loss 
sense.  
 
 
 
 
 
                   
 
 
 
(a)                    (b) 
 
Fig. 3. (a) Structures of edge and U-shaped 
coupling feed, (b) simulated frequency responses 
of two structures in (a). 
 
B. Tapped-in U-Shaped coupling feed 
 
Easy and convenient harmonic suppression 
without adding extra circuits are rarely seen in 
Za ZbZo
2.43 2.45 2.47
Frequency (GHz)
-6
-4
-2
0
S 2
1 
(d
B
)
Edge
U-shaped
1.276 dB
  INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF MICROWAVE AND OPTICAL TECHNOLOGY 
 
VOL.1, NO. 2, AUGUST 2006  
 
 
IJMOT-2006-4-13 © ISRAMT 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
  
(a)                    (b) 
 
Fig. 6. (a) Varactor-tuned SIR filter with a shunt 
SIR open stub and (b) the corresponding simulated 
frequency response with absence of tuning 
varactors. 
 
 
V. SIMULATED AND MEASURED RESULTS 
 
The proposed circuits are fabricated on a 
0.635-mm-thick RT/duroid 6010 substrate along 
with dielectric constant 10.2 and loss tangent 
0.0023. Before embarking on experiments, 
full-wave EM simulator, Ansoft Designer 1.0, is 
used to verify our design for strict simulated 
responses.  
  
The circuits of Figs. 4 and 6(a) have the 
dimensions of θ1 = θ2 = 40o, TR = 0.7, and Z1 is 
equal to 37.9 Ohm. The characteristic impedance 
of U-shaped coupling is 76.5 Ohm along with d = 
1.8 mm. And the desired center frequency of 
pass-band and pushed upward harmonic are 
located at 2.45 GHz and 5.5 GHz for an acceptable 
skirt.  The simulated and measured frequency 
responses are given in Fig. 7 (without presenting 
of the varactors). It is worthy noting that the filter 
has obtained about a 163%, 4 GHz, stopband BW 
under a 20 dB out-of-band rejection, and the 
measured pass-band’s minimum insertion loss is 
around 1.27 dB with a 7.3% BW. Moreover, the 
simulations agree very well with the 
measurements. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 7. The simulated and measured frequency 
response of the circuit in Fig. 6(a) with the absence 
of varactors. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8. Measured frequency response of Fig. 6(a) 
with the reverse-bias volt. ranging from 1 to 20 V. 
 
The structure of varactors tuned bandpass filter in 
conjunction with a shunt SIR open stub is 
presented in Fig. 6(a).  The circuit zero realized 
by the shunt SIR stub is placed at 2.7 GHz to 
deepen the passband skirt.  The MA46470 (from 
M/A COM) tuning diodes are implemented in the 
circuit design with the applied reverse-bias voltage 
ranging from 1 to 20 V.  Shown in Fig. 8, we have 
achieved from this circuit a 21.9% frequency 
tuning range with all their insertion losses kept 
within 5 dB.  Smaller bias voltage applied to the 
varactors causes a larger capacitance attached to 
the SIR and a bigger leakage current. It is believed 
that the larger current leakage of the tuning diodes 
I/P O/P
Z4
Z3
θ4
θ3
2.4 2.6 2.8 3 3.2
Frequency (GHz)
-60
-40
-20
0
S 2
1 
(d
B
)
U-shaped SIR
Zero with K=6.35
Zero with K=5
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
Frequency (GHz)
-70
-60
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
M
ag
ni
tu
de
 o
f S
-p
ar
am
et
er
 (d
B
)
Measured Return Loss
Measured Insertion Loss
Simulated Insertion Loss
Simulated Return Loss
2nd harmonic 
suppression
1 1.5 2 2.5 3
Frequency (GHz)
-30
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
S 2
1 
(d
B
)
20V
10V
5V
2V
1V
