一、中文摘要 
本研究計畫原規劃為期三年，後經審核通過一年。本研究計畫將分成兩個前瞻性的主
要目標。第一，提出寬頻之 52-GHz 鎖相迴路(PLL)，同時除二後能提供四相位之 26-GHz
訊號，供此雙模系統升降頻之使用。第二，考量未來在 57~64 GHz WPAN 系統的應用面，
我們提出實現與 60-GHz WPAN 系統共存之鎖相迴路電路。利用本實驗室可變電感及傳輸
線技術研究，研發一個 52-GHz 與 60-GHz 共存之鎖相迴路。如是，本計畫預計完成一個寬
頻之毫米波(millimeter-wave)鎖相迴路系統，以提供 24-GHz, 26-GHz, 60-GHz, 與 77-GHz 
頻段應用。 
本研究計畫的主要目標在毫米波多模頻帶之寬頻鎖相迴路。其中實現之方法將利用 
TSMC 0.13-μm RF CMOS 製程技術。此寬頻鎖相迴路具有高整合度與低成本之特性。因為
在雙模系統中 26-GHz 需要四相位訊號，因此我們把頻率升到二倍頻，再利用除頻時，產
生四相位訊號；在 77-GHz 系統則直接提供 52-GHz 之本地震盪源，做第一次降頻之使用。
考量系統之需求，我們需要完成寬頻之毫米波壓控震盪器與除頻器。在考量多模共存系統
應用之鎖相迴路，我們將之前可切換式傳輸線(電感)對高頻做最佳化的設計，預計將可以
應用在 ISM 24 /60 GHz 與 77 GHz 頻帶。 
本研究計畫時程規劃如下：第一年的執行目標，將在開發應用於 52-GHz PLL 的子電
路，包括 CMOS 52-GHz 壓控振盪器電路、除頻器、相位偵測器與頻率偵測器。第二年主
要將要完成 52-GHz 鎖相迴路，並且研發共存鎖相迴路之子電路。第三年目標分成兩部分：
首先完成 24- / 60-GHz 與 77-GHz 共存鎖相迴路。另一目標將與子計畫一所發展的收發機作
整合以滿足總計畫規畫的整合與驗證之工作。 
在本年度一年期的計畫執行下，我們主要完成三項 millimeter-wave 鎖相迴路的子電
路設計，包括有: (1) 56-GHz 可切換頻率之壓控振盪器; (2) 24-GHz 四相位除三電路；
及(3) 56-GHz push-push 壓控振盪器。第一項子電路的研究成果已發表於今年(2009)的歐
洲微波會議。第二項及第三項子電路目前則投稿於 Microwave and Optical Technology 
Letters (MOTL)期刊論文(審稿中)。以下節錄設計及量測結果為報告內容。 
 
關鍵字:  雙模系統、鎖相迴路、毫米波壓控振盪器、除頻器、可切換式電感。 
 
三、報告內容: 
1. 56-GHz frequency-switchable VCO: 
 
1.1 SWITCHABLE NON-UNIFORM DIFFERENTIAL TRANSMISSION LINE DESIGN 
A transmission line recently becomes the candidate device to replace a spiral on-chip 
inductor because of its better wave-based electrical feature. In literature, the effective dielectric 
constant of a differential-mode transmission lines can be digitally controlled by switching the 
artificial dielectric strips to physical short or physical open [9]. In this work, we propose a new 
impedance switching technology which can adjust the equivalent inductance of the differential 
transmission lines. As illustrated in Fig.1, a certain part of the floating metal strips are merged at 
both ends and connected to an NMOS switch. The switch is used to change the “switch-ON” state 
to the “switch-OFF” state by applying the gate voltage from “VDD” to “GND”. From the 
viewpoint of a simple lumped transmission line model, the different electrical boundary 
conditions of the floating metal strips can lead to a different equivalent line capacitance per unit 
section length. Consequently, we can adjust the input impedance of the transmission line by the 
switch.  
 
Fig. 1  The top view (left) and the cross-section view (right) of the switchable DTL-inductor. 
 
For achieving the compact-size design and for the V-band operation, the non-uniform types of 
DTL structures are considered. Based on the transmission line theorem, the narrower line width 
will enhance the stronger inductance characteristics under a fixed length. Therefore, it is expected 
to have a higher inductance with the non-uniform type. Figs. 2 (a) and (b) show the 
Non-UDTL-inductor without and with the FMS structure, respectively, where 1l  ( 2l ) and W1 
(W2) denote the length and the width of the first (second) segment. The spacings between the 
striplines for each segment are denoted as S1 and S2, respectively. In this work, the designed total 
length ( 1l + 2l ) is fixed at 80 μm and W1 is 4.4 times wider than W2 (= 5 um). Based on the 
full-wave EM simulation, the design parameters and the simulation results of the inductances and 
the quality factors are summarized in Table I.  From the simulation results with the FMS 
structure, it is found that the Non-UDTL-inductor can provide a 54.5% increase of inductance as 
compared with the uniform DTL-inductor.  
 
 
Fig. 2  Two possible structures. (a) the Non-UDTL without FMS, and (b) the Non-UDTL with FMS. 
 
(a) (b)
1.2  DUAL-SUB-BANDS VCO CORE DESIGN 
 
A prototype of switchable dual-sub-bands 56 GHz VCO integrated with an optimized 
Non-UDTL-inductor with Half-SW-FMS structure for a 2 GHz tuning range has been 
implemented. The circuit schematic is shown in Fig. 4. An NMOS cross-coupled pair (M1 and 
M2) is utilized to provide the required negative conductance. The resonator is also fine tunable by 
the accumulation-mode MOS varactor. The NMOS switches (M7 and M8) change the equivalent 
inductance of Non-UDTL-inductor. For low phase noise consideration, a PMOS current-mirror 
pair (M3 and M4) is utilized. The resistor R2 is an off-chip resistor for current tuning when doing 
the measurement. An opened-drain buffer stage (M5 and M6) is also integrated. 
 
 
 
Fig. 4 The circuit schematic of the dual-sub-bands VCO. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5 The chip microphotographs. Left: the whole chip. Right: zoom on the VCO core. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6 The measured phase noise at 10 MHz offset frequency. At RBW=VBW=100KHz. 
2. K-band divide-by-three frequency divider: 
2.1  Design Concept and Implementation 
Figure 1 shows the model of an LC-oscillator-based ILFD. If both the injection signal and 
the feedback signal are amplified by nonlinear amplifiers (whose gain responses are denoted as 
Ainj(jω) or Afb(jω), respectively) and mixed by a frequency mixer, multiple harmonic tones 
(mωin±nωout) will be generated at the output port of the mixer. Note that m and n represent the 
m-th and n-th order harmonics generated by the injection and output signals, respectively, through 
the nonlinear amplifiers. The filter placed after the mixer determines the desired output frequency 
ωout = ωin/N from the division ratio N. The model shown in Fig. 1 clearly indicates that only those 
sets of (m,n) those satisfy the condition of N⋅m±n = 1 with respect to the desired division ratio N 
will guarantee successful frequency division. It is obvious that the injection signal power must be 
sufficient to generate an m-th order harmonic that is strong enough to pull the fundamental signal 
in the free-run fundamental state. In addition, sufficient loop gain is necessary for sustaining the 
oscillation of the desired locked signal ωout. 
A differential divide-by-three frequency divider has been reported in [5], as shown in Fig. 2. 
Since the common node of M1 and M2 is broken intentionally and the injection signals are 
mutually differential, both m and n are allowed to be odd or even. In this case, m = 1 and n = 2 
satisfy the condition 3⋅m−n = 1, which is a primary condition that governs the functioning of 
division-by-three circuits. If the magnitude of the gain Ainj(jω) increases, the injection-locking 
capability of frequency divider will be enhanced and the division range will be widen. Therefore, 
the scheme of shunt LC-resonant-peaking at the injection signal frequency by L0 and the parasitic 
capacitance is recommended in [5]. 
In order to produce quadrature-phase outputs, a new divide-by-three circuit topology is 
proposed in this work, as shown in Fig. 3. A modified parallel-transistor-coupled quadrature VCO 
(P-QVCO) core is adopted to replace the differential oscillator core shown in Fig. 2. As is the 
case in the operation of the differential divide-by-three circuit reported in [5], the input signal is 
peaked by L3 in the differential mode and the differential signals are respectively fed to the 
quadrature VCO core, as shown in Fig. 3. Since the common-node of each cross-coupled 
transistor pair is broken, the even harmonics of the output signal (for example, n=2) can be also 
generated at the output ports in the quadrature oscillator loop and can help enhance the frequency 
mixing required for frequency division (i.e., 3⋅m−n = 1 with m = 1 and n = 2), as mentioned 
above. Furthermore, the quadrature-phase outputs are produced by the P-QVCO circuit topology. 
Compared to the differential divide-by-three ILFD in [5], our proposed frequency divider is 
expected to consume more power because it needs more branch currents in the oscillator core to 
sustain sufficient gains of the harmonics for frequency mixing.  
 In our design, the aspect ratios of transistors M2, M4, M6, and M8 are of the same (W/L = 
160 μm/0.18 μm) and those of M9 and M10 are 30 μm/0.18 μm. The size ratio of any coupling 
transistor (M1, M3, M5, or M7) to the transistor M2 is 1:1.25. The simulated inductance value of L3 
is 0.21 nH and its quality factor is 18 at 25 GHz. Since our design is for the quadrature signal 
generation of 8.448 GHz (that is, for a fixed-frequency application in MB-OFDM UWB 
frequency synthesizers), a wide tuning range is not necessary. The designed tuning range of the 
P-QVCO under the no-injection condition is about 190 MHz with Vtune ranging from 0 V to 1.8 V.  
 
Fig. 1 Model of an LC-oscillator-based ILFD. 
 
VDD
Incident 
signal M3
M1 M2
• Vbias
Vin
M1 M2
VtuneV1 V2
VDD
L1 L2
C1 C2
L0
• •
•
Ibias
M3 M4
(a) (b)  
Fig. 2  (a) Traditional injection locked frequency divider and (b) schematic of injection-locked 
divide-by-three circuit reported in [5]. 
 
 
 
Fig. 3  The proposed circuit schematic of injection locked divide-by-three circuit with 
quadrature outputs. 
 
 
Fig. 7  The measured injection sensitivity. 
 
 
Fig. 8  The measured harmonic spectrum. 
 
 
TABLE I 
PERFORMANCE COMPARISON OF DIVIDE-BY-THREE ILFDs 
 
 [5] [7] [10] This work 
Tech. 0.18 μm 
CMOS 
0.13 μm 
CMOS 
0.13 μm 
CMOS 
0.18 μm 
CMOS 
Quadrature 
Output No No Yes Yes 
2nd / 3rd 
Harmonic 
Suppression  
-23 / -21 
dBc  
N/A 
-45 / -40 
dBc 
-34 / -19  
dBc 
Lock Range 
/ Pin, inj 
16.8 ~17.8
GHz 
/ +4 dBm 
21.6 ~ 23.6
GHz 
/ 0 dBm 
22.3 ~ 26.3 
GHz 
/ + 2 dBm 
25.2 ~ 25.7 
GHz 
/ +4 dBm 
Locked PN 
(dBc/Hz)  
@ Δf, Pin,inj 
≈ -118  
@ 100KHz, 
+3.7 dBm 
-111.52 
@ 10KHz, 
0 dBm 
-113.45 
@ 100KHz, 
N/A 
-113 
@100KHz, 
+4 dBm 
Area 0.81 mm2 0.78 mm2 0.23 mm2 1.43 mm2 
Phase error N/A N/A 1.1° 2.8° 
new technique that delivers the output signal from the common drain of the two-stage buffers. 
Cascade topology is employed to provide a higher transconductance. The supply voltage and 
aspect ratio of the first-stage buffer transistors (M5 and M6) are chosen carefully to increase the 
nonlinearity of the devices for enhancing the power level of the desired second harmonics. The 
strongly-distorted signal resulted from M5 and amplified by M7 combines with that resulted from 
M6 and amplified by M8 at the common drain node of M7 and M8. The output power will be 
enhanced by about 7 dB as compared with that from a single-stage buffer (i.e., from the common 
drain of the first-stage buffer in our design case) from the simulation results.  
 
3.3  Experimental Results 
The inset in Fig. 4 shows the chip microphotograph. The total chip size is 0.85×0.78 mm2. 
The chip was measured by on-wafer probing. The VCO starts to oscillate when the core draws a 
current of 4.27 mA from the 2 V supply voltage. In order to make use of the non-linear feature of 
the first-stage buffer, the supply voltage is intentionally set to a lower supply voltage. The total 
current measured is 7.52 mA at a bias voltage of 0.6 V in the first buffer stages. The second 
buffer stages draw a total of 2.8 mA from a 2 V supply voltage. The output spectrum was 
measured by a 50-GHz spectrum analyzer (Agilent E4448A) together with a V-band harmonic 
mixer (Agilent 11970V) for the frequency extension to 75 GHz. When the phase noise 
measurement was performed, an attenuator, a V-band LNA and an IF-band amplifier were also 
utilized to compensate for the losses from the harmonic mixer and the cables and to provide 
sufficient driving power to characterize the phase noise performance by the spectrum analyzer. In 
practical, the added attenuator and amplifiers contribute less phase noise degradation.   
Figure 4 shows the output frequency vs. the tuning voltage. The measured tuning range is 
2.68 GHz and the oscillation frequency ranges from 52.74 GHz to 55.42 GHz. The tuning ratio 
was about 4.9%. Figure 5 shows the measured output power without cable loss compensation. 
After compensating for the cable loss (14.45 dB at 55.31 GHz), the output power is -21.6 dBm at 
55.31 GHz. The measurement results show that the output power is above -25 dBm when Vtune 
ranges from 0 V to 2 V. The measured phase noise is -94.45 dBc/Hz at an offset of 1 MHz and 
-111.73 dBc/Hz at an offset of 10 MHz from the carrier frequency of 53.0 GHz, as shown in Fig. 
6. 
The calculated FOM and FOMT, in which the contribution of the buffer stage is included, are 
-176.23 dB and -170.12 dB, respectively. Fair comparisons between the measured performances 
of our proposed VCO and those V-band VCOs previously reported in 0.18 μm CMOS technology 
[4]-[6] are summarized in Table 1. As compared with the near 50-GHz VCOs [4]-[6], which 
utilize the typical tuning methodology by tuning varactors only, the proposed VCO is much 
impressive with a wider tuning range and sufficiently low phase noise by using the proposed 
low-inductance high-Q inductor. Therefore, a greater tuning range can be achieved by using a 
larger varactor capacitance. Because of the process technology advance, the parasitic capacitance 
of active devices can be further reduced with scaled size. Therefore, a wider tuning range can be 
achieved [8] with a process technology advanced than the 0.18 μm CMOS technology. However, 
the cost of process will be increased. 
  
Fig. 3 The schematic of the proposed push-push VCO. 
 
 
Fig. 4 The simulated and measured tuning ranges. The inset is the chip photo. 
 
 
Fig. 5 The measured output spectrum without the compensation of cable loss. 
 
四、成果自評 
本計畫原規畫三年後通過為一年計畫。計畫中原規畫利用0.13um CMOS製程發展V-band 
的鎖相迴路子電路及完整鎖相迴路之設計。但因時間因素與經驗累積因素的考量，最後我
們選擇利用 0.18um CMOS 製程來完成 k-band 除頻器及壓控振盪器，並利用 push-push 的
架購技術完成 V-band 的壓控振盪器之設計。我們亦實際利用 0.13um CMOS 製程成功地展
現一顆 56-GHz 的壓控振盪器。三顆晶片的成果，我們已完成投稿的動作。與原計畫規畫
投稿的目標相符。具有學術價值。 
 本計畫另外探討可切換電感的結構，在未來我們會繼續深入研究。期能發表專利。 
  
計畫編號 NSC 97-2221-E-006-148-
計畫名稱 應用於 26 GHz 及 77GHz 之雙模毫米波 CMOS 鎖相迴路晶片的研製(II)
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
游本立/成大電機系電機所博士班研究生
會議時間地點 28 September through 2 October. , 2009 / Rome, Italy
會議名稱 European Microwave Conference
發表論文題目
56 GHz CMOS VCO Integrated with a Switchable Non-uniform Differential Transmission-
Line Inductor
摘要：
學生游本立 2009/09/27~2009/10/9 至義大利羅馬參加研討會，此研討會為歐洲微波會議，此會議主要在展示微
波系統與技術、高頻之寬頻相關主題、積體電路技術以及其在系統面的應用；此外，也特別深入指出了這些議題相
關的定理、模擬設計以及量測上的考量。藉由參加這個研討會讓我有機會提升自己相關領域的知識。
Abstract：
The European Microwave Conference is the premier forum for the presentation of the present status and future trends in
the field of microwave, millimetre- and submillimetre-wave systems and technologies. A broad range of high-frequency
related topics, from materials and technologies to integrated circuits, systems and applications will be addressed in all their
aspects: theory, simulation, design and measurement. By attending this conference, I have an opportunity that could be
increase background knowledge of mm-wave regime in my research field.
一、 目的
藉由參與一年一度在歐洲舉辦的微波領域盛會，口頭發表自己的學術論文外，更希望能盡一份微薄的心力提升
成功大學於國際學術地位上的能見度；此外，參與這樣的研討會，亦能大幅增加學生的視野與研究的創新能
力。
二、 參加會議經過
2009 歐洲微波研討會今年在義大利羅馬舉行，由 IEEE MTT-S協會以及羅馬當地的學術單位所主辦，會議
日期由 2009.09.28~ 2009.10.2 為期五天舉辦。這整個禮拜被大會稱微波週，幾乎世界各地研究微波相關領域的
專家與廠商都出席了這場盛會，此外另有三個研討會亦同時同地一起舉辦，分別為
 The European Microwave Integrated Circuit Conference - EuMiC
 The European Conference on Wireless Technology - ECWT
 The European Radar Conference – EuRAD
其中 EuMiC 為因應近十年來整合積體電路應用於微波頻帶的實現而專注於積體電路下微波電路的進展
而設，有別於 MIC 設計，借由此研討會可以一瞶目前世界中 IC 製程微波電路的發展實況；而 ECWT 專注於目
前世界上無線通訊技術的發展現況，最後 EuRAD 討論了當今天線雷達領域的發展。
圖 2.
今天為學生口頭發表的日期，為了及早到場準備，我們起了個大早，先到會場註冊，並同時觀察別的學生
報告狀況，也同時讓自己能快速融入當時的情境，避免緊張與怯場。我們 Section 為討論 60GHz Si based IC
的電路，與學生的研究非常相關，特別是第一個報告（圖 3）的作者為加州柏克萊大學的 Ali M. Niknejad 教授
以及 E. Adabi，Ali M. Niknejad 教授在柏克萊大學所領導的無線通訊實驗室，其在無線通訊領域中是執牛耳之
地位，也因此學生期待能藉由這個機緣一睹大師風采並親自向他請教一些專業領域上的問題；然而可惜的是
Ali M. Niknejad 教授因公務繁忙並無法親自到場。接著報告的為台大電信所黃天偉老師的同學，其講述到了如
何利用 body biasing 去完成低電壓 LNA 的設計，著實獲益良多；緊接著就輪到我上台了，一開時難免有些緊
張，但由於前幾張投影片講的尚算順利，在加上學生去年有至美國口頭發表的經驗，不久後心情也漸漸穩定下
來了，也如預期的比投影片在限定時間內報告完畢，原本擔心 Q&A 時會有溝通上的困難，但除了一位似乎為
印度籍的先生提問時因為他的口音太重，導致我根本搞不懂他再問什麼之外，其他的部分到是算有回答到提問
者的要求，當然這也必須感謝 Chairman 的幫忙。過了 20 分鐘戰戰兢兢的報告，總算換我當永遠的聽眾了，
這時後心情也輕鬆了不少。最後一位報告的是莊老師實驗室的楊楚昀同學，感覺她報告的口音與流暢度比我好
多了，不愧是有經過 GRE 歷練，也讓 Chairman 小小的稱讚了她一下。我們的議程結束後，也順便找了
Chairman 寒暄，並感謝他們在過程中的幫忙（圖 4）。
圖 3.
此時已接近中午時刻，我們也開始在會場附近找尋相關有興趣的場次聆聽（圖 5），其中有些議程提到
Slow wave 相關的研究，恰好與學生的的研究部份相關聯，也因此對學生幫助很大（圖 6）。當然也由於本次
研討會包含了四的大主題一起合辦的，因此我們也有機會可以看到各式各樣五花八門的研究，或許這些研究並
沒有和自己的主體相涵蓋，但多聞不也是激發創意的一個好來源之一嗎？！每一次參加如此盛大的研討會，往
往都能帶給自己許多衝擊，藉由觀賞別人的研究，也激發自己繼續朝研究之路邁進的動力。
在研討會結束後的日子，由於太倉促訂機位，導致原本要搭的班機已經客滿，只好將回國日期後延， 但也在
這段期間內與學弟順道參觀了義大利的風土民情，獲益良多！10/8 的清晨，帶著依依不捨的心情與疲憊的身體，於
Linate airport 搭乘班機返國。
三、 與會心得與建議事項
這是學生第二次出國，但特別的是第一次到歐洲國家，而且是參加如此專業又盛大的研討會，讓學生心情
上頗為緊張，所以學生也不停的提醒自己要準備的更充分；所幸過程順利。參加這樣的大型的研討會真的讓學
生大大開了眼界，也見到了世界上相關領域大師們共聚一堂的盛況。除此之外也吸收了許許多多目前最先進的
研究成果與創意，這些收獲大大的啟發了學生在研究上的一些新思惟，也突破了一些在研究上所遇到的盲點，
真的要感謝這些來自世界各地高手們的知識衝擊，也因為看到了它們的研究而激發了自己更多的研究熱忱；我
相信這些心路歷程對學生都是正面的助益。最後要感謝國科會在經費上的支援讓學生可以無後顧之憂的參加這
次的國際大型研討會。希望在未來能持續提供相關的補助讓這些學生能有機會出國發表自己的成果，提升國家
整體科技研發的能力。
II. SWITCHABLE NON-UNIFORM DIFFERENTIAL 
TRANSMISSION LINE DESIGN 
A transmission line recently becomes the candidate 
device to replace a spiral on-chip inductor because of its 
better wave-based electrical feature. In literature, the 
effective dielectric constant of a differential-mode 
transmission lines can be digitally controlled by switching 
the artificial dielectric strips to physical short or physical 
open [9]. In this work, we propose a new impedance 
switching technology which can adjust the equivalent 
inductance of the differential transmission lines. As 
illustrated in Fig.1, a certain part of the floating metal 
strips are merged at both ends and connected to an NMOS 
switch. The switch is used to change the “switch-ON” 
state to the “switch-OFF” state by applying the gate 
voltage from “VDD” to “GND”. From the viewpoint of a 
simple lumped transmission line model, the different 
electrical boundary conditions of the floating metal strips 
can lead to a different equivalent line capacitance per unit 
section length. Consequently, we can adjust the input 
impedance of the transmission line by the switch.  
(a) (b)
 
Fig. 1  (a) The 3D view, (b) the top view, and (c) the cross-
section view of the switchable DTL-inductor. 
 
For achieving the compact-size design and 
maintaining the Q-factor sufficient high for the V-band 
operation, the non-uniform types of DTL structures are 
considered. At the driven end of the DTL-inductor, the 
narrower line width will result in the stronger inductance 
characteristics under a fixed length. On the other hand, at 
the shorted end, the current is maximum and the voltage 
is minimum because of the standing-wave operation. 
Therefore, the series resistance of the metal line 
dominates the losses. The wider line width at the shorted 
end will lead to less series loss. The Non-UDTL can 
maintain sufficient high quality factor consequently. Figs. 
2 (a) and (b) show the Non-UDTL-inductor without and 
with the FMS structure, respectively, where  ( ) and 
W1 (W2) denote the length and the width of the first 
(second) segment. The spacings between the striplines for 
each segment are denoted as S1 and S2, respectively. In 
this work, the designed total length ( + ) is fixed at 80 
μm and W1 is 4.4 times wider than W2 (= 5 um). Based 
on the full-wave EM simulation, the design parameters 
and the simulation results of the inductances and the 
quality factors are summarized in Table I. In order to let 
the Non-UDTL exhibit the slow-wave feature, the metal-1 
strips are placed underneath the inductor. From the 
simulation results with the FMS structure, it is found that 
the Non-UDTL-inductor with FMS can provide a 25.7% 
increase of inductance as compared with the Non-UDTL-
inductor without FMS.  
1l 2l
1l 2l
 
Fig. 2 Two possible structures. (a) the Non-UDTL without 
FMS, and (b) the Non-UDTL with FMS.  
 
TABLE I 
COMPARISONS OF INDUCTANCES AND Q-FACTORS 
 
Design Parameters Non-UDTL  
w/o  
FMS 
Non-UDTL  
w/i  
FMS 
Width: 
W(um) 
W1 22 22 
W2 5 5 
Space: 
S (um) 
S1 26 26 
S2 43 43 
L( pH)  
@ 56 GHz 
105 136 
Q @ 56 GHz 18.4 21.4 
 
