中文摘要
近年來流體-結構交互作用模式之發展，提昇了分析PU 瓣膜葉片及其整體性能之準確性，但根據
文獻資料發現，流體-結構分析模式均簡化為僅考量PU 瓣膜之葉片變形，而忽略主動脈壁之變形，即
假設其為剛性邊界。欲提昇PU 瓣膜設計，勢必考量主動脈壁之膨脹與收縮對PU 瓣膜性能之影響。本
計畫目的即在以流體-結構模式分析主動脈壁之膨脹與收縮對PU 瓣膜設計之影響，並提出有價值之分
析資料，再輔以實驗驗證分析資料之正確性，使人造心瓣膜之性能更接近於自然瓣膜。計畫以數值模
擬及實驗測試二階段進行，第一階段以循序漸進的方式，建立心瓣膜與主動脈之二維及三維流體-結構
分析模式，輔以商用之電腦輔助軟體及計算流體力學軟體，開發人工心瓣膜設計；同時也展現細部的
流場分析結果。第二階段製作設計的心瓣膜，並與血液循環模擬系統連結，應用流場可視化之技術，
觀測血液流經主動脈人造瓣膜之流場，以驗證第一階段分析資料之正確性，並提供相關研究有效的驗
證數據。
關鍵詞：流體-結構交互作用、PU 瓣膜、流場可視化
ABSTRACT
Recently, various studies have applied fluid-structure interaction (FSI) problem to study dynamic
behavior of heart valve under impact of blood flow in waveform. The success of this approach has improved
the performance of Polyurethane (PU) heart valves considerably. However, according to our knowledge, most
of studies have to eliminate the deformation of blood vessel wall, saying aortic/arterial walls, or assume that
wall is rigid in order to simplify the analysis. It is evident that if we want to increase the quality of PU valves,
we have to overcome this obstacle. In addition, a crucial evidence for this numerical problem is required, but
it is not an easy task either. The ambition of present project is to solve the issues mentioned above. We
concentrate on FSI problem applied to PU aortic valve with consideration to flexibility of aortic wall. Major
outcome includes a valuable set of analysis and experiment data which should help scientists to step more
closely to an artificial aortic valve with functions are similar to that of natural one. To achieve the requirement,
the project divided into two stages including simulation and testing. In stage 1, the FSI problem was solved on
two-dimensional as well as three-dimensional models of aortic valve and aorta by utilizing a finite element
analysis package. In order to speed up the process of this stage, this project took advantage of the latest tools
for computer-aided design and computational fluid dynamics. A detailed fluid analysis for blood flow as well
as displacement of valve leaflet and aortic wall were also reported. Relying on results of stage 1, prototype PU
aortic valve and aorta were well fabricated. The design was connected to a mock and the flow visualization
technique was used to achieve the analysis. The acquiring data perform not only validation for above finite
element analysis results but also a significant evidence for other related researches.
Keywords: fluid-structure interaction, polyurethane heart valves, flow visualization
two distinct solvers.
This project used the weak coupling algorithm to investigate the fluid-structure interaction in the aortic
valve by coupling a computational fluid dynamics (CFD) code and finite-element analysis (FEA) code. To
validate the simulation results, current research utilized Polyurethane that has been demonstrated to be a
biocompatible material to manufacture an aortic valve prototype, and developed an experiment loop for
testing.
(II) METHODOLOGY
(i) Coupling method for CFD and FEA codes
Current study used the staggered method (Fig. 1) that can be classified as serial coupling algorithm to
couple FLUENT (CFD code) and ABAQUS (FEA codes). In this approach, FLUENT starts computing first,
send data (pressure or shear stress) to ABAQUS, which then computes one step and sends data (node moving
positions or face deformation) back to FLUENT for the next step and so on. An important issue is the data
exchange. The quantities must be transferred from one code to the other. There are several ways to solve this
problem. This study presents here a simple data exchanging method that totally utilized commercial Computer
Aided Design (CAD) packages.
Figure 1.Coupling by staggered method
The exchange data direction from FLUENT to ABQUS can easily perform as the data (pressure or shear
stress) can be directly computed in FLUENT, which will be loadings for computing model in ABAQUS. After
created by Boolean operations in Solidworks, and then imported to Gambit for meshing and define boundary
types. The numerical model (Fig. 3(b)) consists of three regions including Fix-in and Fix-out with mesh ratio
of 0.003, and Domain with mesh ratio of 0.001. This separation aims to reduce the computing time but still
obtaining a sufficiently accurate result. Note that the mesh size difference between models in ABAQUS and
FLUENT does not affect the final results of whole simulations. The particularly specified boundary types and
blood flow properties is summarized in Table 1.
(a) (b)
Figure 3. The mesh elements
Table 1 Material properties and CFD boundary specification
Material properties for valve leaflet
Density (kg/m3) [17] Young’s Modulus (MPa) [18] Poision’s ratio [18]
1037 2.0 0.38
Blood properties
- Density: 1037 kg/m3
- Viscosity: 0.0035 kg/m-s [19]
CFD boundary types
Layer Type
Inlet Inlet_Velocity
Outlet Presure_Outlet
Sinus Wall
Leaflet Wall
Figure 5. Support frame fabrication
Figure 6. Valve leaflets fabrication
Figure 7. One-piece forming method
(v) Material testing
As mentioned above, in Assembly method, the valve leaflets were formed from a PU sheet with thickness
of 0.13mm. In order to investigate the mechanical characteristics of the PU sheet, uniaxial tensile tests were
(III) RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
(i) Simulation results
Mechanical behaviours of the Polyurethane aortic valve
Figure 10 presents a series of opening and closing behaviors of the aortic valve during systolic phase that
lasts in about 0.35 sec. At the beginning of systolic phase, the valve started opening to create a stellular orifice
(Fig. 10(b)). The transvalvular pressure was increasing and resulted in further opening of valve leaflets that
formed triangular shape of the valve orifice (Fig. 10(c)). At 0.08sec, the valve was in maximum opening level,
and the orifice became more in circular shape (Fig. 10(d)).The valve started to close. The blood flow from left
ventricle was the maximum (peak) at 0.1sec while the valve was closing already, and the orifice began to
change from circular form to triangular shape (Fig. 10(e)). During remaining time of systolic phase the valve
continued closing, resulting in orifice form changing from triangle to small triangle (Fig. 10(f)) and small
triangle to stellular shape (Fig. 10(g)). The valve completely closed at about 0.3sec (Fig. 10(h)).
Hemodynamics of the Polyurethane aortic valve under fluid-structure interaction
The interaction of the valve with the fluid and the application of the time-dependent pressure and velocity
curves resulted in a complex three-dimensional flow (Fig. 11). When the leaflets formed the stellular orifice
(Fig. 11(a)), since the orifice was small, the blood flow mostly concentrated in the center of the valve, creating
a jet impingement through the valve to ascending aorta area. At t=0.08sec, the valve was in fully opening, and
the blood flow ejection phenomenon occurred (Fig. 11(c)). Note that the aortic valve already started closing at
this moment, but the ejection continued even after the aortic pressure exceeded ventricular pressure, thus the
ejection could be still observed at t=0.1sec (Fig. 11(d)). During remaining time of the systolic phase, from
0.1sec to 0.35sec, the valve rapidly closed, resulting in a decrease of blood flow on the whole aorta domain.
At t=0.2 sec, although the mainstream velocity was 0.28 m/s, the valve was almost sealed by small stellular
orifice, generating a jet impingement at the center (Fig. 11(f)). The presence of flow was not found at t=0.3sec
when the valve completely closed.
(a) 0.02s (b) 0.04s (c) 0.08s
(d) 0.10s (e)0.17s (f) 0.20s
Figure 11. 3D complex flow fields for six typical points during systole:
(ii) Prototypes
Using Assembly method, current project has manufactured various prototypes of the aortic valve from
Polyurethane material (Fig. 12). The prototype A, B and C were fabricated in big scale to test the fabricating
method, and then the prototype D was in real scale of natural aortic valve for validating simulation results.
(a) 0 sec (b) 0 sec
(c) 0.04 sec (d) 0.04 sec
(e) 0.08 sec (f) 0.08 sec
Figure 13. Mechanical behaviours in comparisons between simulation and testig results
(IV) SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION
This project investigated fluid-structure interaction in the aortic valve by coupling CFD and FEA codes,
and validated simulation results by experiments with the aortic valve prototype made from Polyurethane
material. Some highlights are concluded in following:
The interaction between the valve leaflets and surrounding fluid resulted in a complex flow field
according to the valve orifice shape alterations during systolic phase. The changing of the valve orifice in the
simulations totally conformed to theoretical descriptions, while the flow field provided more understandings
about function of the aortic sinus and closing mechanism of the valve.
Although the experiment has not performed in situations totally followed physiological conditions, the
testing results considerably matched the simulation results, and could be considered as validations for
numerical results. We are currently working on establishing a testing loop which can simulate the conditions
more close to the reality.
Obviously, we presented here a successful method for solving fluid-structure interaction in the aortic valve.
However, the proposed method needs a huge amount of time to proceed, and almost impossible to perform
when the step size was very small, resulting in a huge amount of steps. We are currently working on creating
an interface to more effectively exchange data between CFD and FEA codes.
References
1. Yoganathan, A.P., He, Z., Jones, C.S., 2004. Fluid mechanics of heart valves. Annual Review of
Biomedical Engineering 6, 331–362.
2. Yoganathan, A.P., Chandran, K.B., Sotiropoulos, F., 2005. Flow in prosthetic heart valves: state-of-the-art
and future directions. Annals of Biomedical Engineering 33 (12), 1689–1694.
3. Griffith, B. E., Hornung, R. D., McQueen, D. M., Peskin C. S., 2007. An adaptive, formally second order
accurate version of the immersed boundary method, J. Comput. Phys. 223 (1), 10–49.
4. Sugiura, S., Katayama, S., Umetani, N., Hisada, T., 2009. Simulation study of aortic valve function using
the fluid-structure interaction finite element method, Advances in understanding aortic diseases, Springer.
5. Thurbrikar, M. and Peipgrass, W.C., 1981. The design of the normal aortic valve. The American
Physiological Society.
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限）
學術成就、技術創新
(1) 完成PU 動脈瓣葉片及縫合環幾何設計。
(2) 建立PU 動脈瓣葉片之流體-結構交互作用動力模式。
(3) 建立主動脈壁之流體-結構交互作用動力模式。
(4) 建立血液流場及PU 動脈瓣(含主動脈壁)性能之三維脈動流場數值分析模式。
(5) 驗證數值分析模式功能。
(6) 分析PU 動脈瓣之性能、最大剪應力大小及分佈位置等資料，並建成資料檔，提供PU 動
脈瓣性能分析參考資料。
(7) 完成發展之PU 動脈瓣系列分析。
(8) 開發之主動脈壁之膨脹與收縮效應之PU 動脈瓣性能分析模式，為相關研究工作最有效之
分析工具。
(9) 以體外實驗分析新型PU 動脈瓣之血液流場及動力行為，並驗證主動脈壁之膨脹與收縮對
PU瓣膜設計之影響。
(10)發表5篇研討會論文(其中3篇為EI蒐錄)，發表1篇SCI 期刊論文。
社會影響
(1) 完成新型PU 動脈瓣整體設計並進行離體測試工作，後續將申請新型PU 動脈瓣專利。
(2) 規劃與相關研究機構合作(如：成功大學醫學院及高雄醫學大學)，進行新型PU 動脈瓣動
物移植試驗，驗證其功能及臨床價值，同時整理動物實驗資料，作為臨床實驗準備之依
據；期盼新型PU 動脈瓣設計可用於臨床使用嘉惠病患。
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：徐中華 計畫編號：99-2221-E-151-029- 
計畫名稱：主動脈壁之膨脹與收縮對 PU 瓣膜設計之影響 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 1 1 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 3 3 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
