可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
 
□  可申請專利  ■  可技術移轉                      日期：100 年 8月 1日 
 
 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：邁向台灣文化精品的竹道具設計 
計畫主持人：王鴻祥 
計畫編號：NSC 99-2218-E-027-010- 
學門領域：人因工程/工業設計 
技術/創作名稱 一種象徵原住民射日神話的竹製LED閱讀燈，拉弓弦以射
日的動作比擬成調整燈具的開關動作，整體造形萃取局部
弓箭造形，構成造形與功能兼具神話想像的台灣文創精品。
發明人/創作人 王鴻祥 
中文：一種由竹製積成材為主製成的燈臂與燈罩結構，積
成竹材以膠合方式精密地結合LED燈和光纖，導線採隱藏
式設計，燈座為一個拋光鏡面圓盤，燈臂和登作設一條張
力光纖，組成局部的弓箭結構。 
 
 
技術說明 
英文：A creative structure that consists of (1) a partial bow 
made of plybamboo on which LED light and optic fibers are 
precisely integrated together, (2) a mirror torus as base 
reflecting the shape of the other part of the bow to show up the 
whole bow, and (3) a string that allows the user to control the 
lighting as to draw the string of the bow. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
文化創意產業，設計服務產業、燈飾照明、文具禮品 
 
技術特點 
技術特點：一種可結合積成竹材、LED照明、膠合技術等
之創新機構設計。 
設計方法特點：設計具台灣器物文化內涵的概念產品之系
統化方法。 
 
推廣及運用的價值 
利用一種創新結構，創造出結合科技、工藝與傳統文化的
創意化、趣味化之台灣文創精品。 
 
※   1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位研發 
成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※   2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※   3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2
Although target and source may be very different, more and more researches has devoted to 
the measuring of similarity from distance, feature and relation aspects in a metaphor product. 
Structure mapping theory (Gentner, 1983; 1986; 1988) is an analogy method of mapping two 
different domains based on the attribute and relation points of view. It hypothesizes that a 
relational structure in unknown target can be aligned or inferred from another relational 
structure in a familiar source. Tversky’s contract model regards object as a feature sets and 
similarity as a feature-set overlap (Tversky, 1977). Feather in a product refers to the shape or 
character of individual segments as well as concrete or obstruct elements. 
 
 
Research Methods 
 
Materials The project “Toward Taiwan Cultural Luxury Products Via Bamboo Dogu Design” 
presented by the research team of Wang H. H. aims to create lamp devices by taking Taiwan 
culture as a metaphor source category. By surveying the category from Taiwan culture, three 
activities, as shown on table 1, were selected because of the possible targets with design needs 
and symbolic meaning. Three different types of illumination designs were made with the 
application of native Bamboo material, LED and optical fiber luminescent technology. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. “Toward Taiwan Cultural Luxury Products Via Bamboo Doug Design”, NSC 
Concept Design of Future Products Project, by Hung-Hsiang Wang, Jui-lin Hung, Tz-Hau Li, 
Jen-Yu Lin, Shih-Ting Chen, Bo-Jin Wang, Yi-Fang Yang. 
 
 
 
 
 4
circumstances). There are also some unmatched relations with feature matches remained. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Result Analysis 
 
With the inside-out mapping from feature to relation, the links have shown the track of how 
and what the source related to the target. The relation matches, based on their attached 
features, can be classified into three levels to analyze and evaluate. As shown on figure 6, 
both “Nong“ and ”Qing” have alignment in form because of the similar construction on body 
frameworks. On the other hand, ICID2011 Manuscript Template, Version 1 (March 2011) 
“Qing” performs a functional links because both target and source have innately shared the 
same attribute on the purpose of protection. Meanwhile, all the designs possess a juxtaposing 
relation in the interaction level where human’s behaviors in Taiwan culture are converted into 
an action of lighting switch. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reviewing all three metaphor designs, it is proved that Taiwan cultural activity has delivered 
partly identical relational structure to the design outcomes. Nevertheless, it is highlighted that 
the most significant part of the structure juxtaposition is user interaction which the 
transmission of metaphor not only formally and logically materializes the movement and 
behavior but also conceptually and cognitively delivers the meaning and spirit behind. For 
instances, imitating the shooting action to switch the lamp gives users a fancy of old oracle, a 
lamp simulating the experience of dragon dance can bring users a lucky blessing, and users 
feel a trust when holding a knife-metaphor emergency flashlight in the dark. 
 
 
 6
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/08/05
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 邁向台灣文化精品的竹道具設計
計畫主持人: 王鴻祥
計畫編號: 99-2218-E-027-010- 學門領域: 前瞻概念設計
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
依據本計畫所提出的設計方法，可開發出一種象徵原住民射日神話的竹製 LED
閱讀燈，拉弓弦以射日的動作比擬成調整燈具的開關動作，整體造形萃取局部
弓箭造形，構成造形與功能兼具神話想像的台灣文創精品。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
