2cost; (5) mutual authentication; (6) session key
agreement; (7) no serious synchronization-clock
problem; (8) privacy protection; (9) preventing the
secret token loss problem; (10) solving the server
compromised problem; (11) preventing the insider
attack. In this project, we have designed robust,
secure, flexible, and efficient authentication and key
management schemes for satisfying the above eleven
requirements. We also have proved our proposed
robust schemes using the well-known formal
security proof techniques. Through our proposed
project, we have given a set of good solutions for
robust, secure, flexible, and efficient authentication
and key management schemes in low-resource
environments.
Keywords: robust authentication, key management,
cryptographic protocol, formal security proof, formal
verification
二、緣由與目的
隨著 RFID、 sensor network、WiFi、
WiMax、wireless mesh network 及 Ad-hoc 網
路等的逐漸普及，使用者可能在任何地點、時
間下，去存取周遭需認證的資源。為了管控這
些資源，許多適合這些環境的低資源身份鑑別
協定被學者們提出，而因為設計上或管理面的
考慮不夠周詳，這些環境下之許多身份鑑別協
定的弱點也陸續被發現。這些環境下，而不管
是存取的電腦或使用者的電腦都可能是低資
源的設備，它們的運算能力與通訊能力是比較
低的。而這些設備因大量的使用而較容易疏於
管理因而容易因為中毒或軟體弱點而被入侵
破解（Compromised），所以如何於這些低資
源計算環境下提供一套即使節點被入侵而取
得儲存於節點內的密鑰或安全認證權杖，卻還
能抵抗仿冒攻擊的強固的認證與鑰匙管理機
制是一迫切與挑戰的課題。
另外隨著各式網路，如：RFID、sensor
network、WiFi、WiMax、wireless mesh network
及 Ad-hoc 網路等的蓬勃發展，在異質網路的
整合上也容易因要考慮不同無線平台上因移
動要換手，而需跨網路認證因而產生許多安全
的可能漏洞，形成安全上弱點。防止因不同的
認證方式，不同的加密模組與不同的服務提供
者而產生整合上的安全管理上的困難而被攻
擊者攻擊為一主要課題。而如何於這些網路環
境下提供一套即使服務提供者被入侵而取得
儲存於節點內的密鑰或認證權杖，卻還能抵抗
仿冒攻擊的強固的認證與鑰匙管理機制也是
一迫切與挑戰的課題。若使用者想使用由已連
線的網路節點所提供的服務，其必須先通過這
些網路節點的認證。然而，隨著各式無線網路
的整合，網路上充滿安全機制本身的漏洞也存
在著許多管理上疏忽的安全問題。惡意者會透
過各式方法存取網路，病毒與駭客攻擊在網路
上是非常普遍的。而這些在網路上的各式服務
也因為實際環境所產生的安全性上的考量而
受限。在分散式的環境中，通訊雙方需要一個
安全的方案來提供一個有效率、有延展性與安
全性的架構以分配共享金鑰給對方。透過此共
享金錀，雙方可以安全的進行秘密通訊。而在
低資源與異質的環境下，我們必須提供使用者
可方便且快速的存取其允許使用的周遭資
源，而即使某些節點（伺服器或使用者節點）
被入侵，也不會影響到整個系統的安全架構，
只需將這些節點去除便可。另外也需提供強韌
性的功能，即使伺服端被入侵也不會損害通訊
雙方的於安全通訊上使用的被協議好的共享
金鑰。
目前網路上的各式安全認證與金鑰交換
機制因其迫切的需要，已經有許多的學者提出
其解決方案。在 1981 年 [18]，由 Lamport 首
先提出使用密碼認證來驗證合法使用者的機
制後，就有許多機制相繼被提出來改進此機制
的缺失 [2, 3, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17,
27, 29, 30, 31, 32, 34, 39, 41]。另外在兩網路個
體進行安全通訊之前，也有許多研究探討如何
建立一個交談金鑰(session key)來保護接下來
的安全通訊。對於一些基本的安全性與效率上
的需求，下列的需求對於在低資源計算環境下
使用者認證與金鑰協議機制是相當重要的 [1,
4, 7, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 28, 33, 40]。
C1: 動態的參與：一個認證網路可以被動
態的產生而且參與者可以在動態的加入與移
除。
C2: 單一註冊： 一個參與者只需要向自
己的網路所管轄的安全控制器註冊一次並且
可以使用此網路所提供的服務。而在異質網路
環境下，也可透過各網路之間的網域安全控制
器的合作認證與產生會議金鑰。
C3: 隨意的選擇密碼：參與者可以隨意的
選擇和改變他的密碼來保護它的安全裝置，例
如：RFID tag、sensor node、智慧卡及其他手
持裝置等。
4稱式加解密系統、單向雜湊函數、橢圓曲線密碼
系統或 Weil Pairing 密碼系統等技術設計滿足我
們所歸納的十一項標準之強固的使用者認證與金
鑰協商機制。
我們的方案可分為三階段.
(一) 設定階段：安全伺服器會設定其系統參
數與公佈系統公開參數。
(二) 註冊階段： 使用者到其所管轄的安全
伺服器櫃檯申請安全服務。如果申請接受，服務
人員接受此請求，他先檢查使用者身份之後，計
算相關資訊並將秘密相關資訊給使用者。
(三) 使用者認證與金鑰協商階段：此階段使
用者間可藉由安全伺服器的幫忙可互相認證與協
商一會議金鑰 (session key)。
藉由本計劃之實施，我們已對目前低資源計
算環境下同時滿足前述十一項標準兼具彈性、實
務性、效率性與安全性的強固的金錀分配與使用
者認證機制技術有深入的研究。
四、結果與討論
本計劃最主要之成果是於低資源計算環境
下，對安全的強固的金錀分配與管理方案，使用
者認證與隱私保護提供一系列的最佳的解決方案
。我們的部分成果目前已發表或被接受於國際期
刊論文 [ 15, 35, 36, 37, 38]。目前網路環境越來越
成熟。未來可想而知網路安全之相關研究與應用
會蓬勃發展。
五、計劃成果自評
1. 研究內容與原計劃相符程度：本研究內容與
原申請計劃完全相符。
2. 達成預期目標概要：本計劃已設計與完成兼
具強固性、彈性、效率性與安全性的低資源
計算環境下之認證與鑰匙管理機制。我們也
使用目前常用的正規安全證明與驗證技術證
明我們所設計的協定的安全性。
3. 有效用現有的資訊安全技術來設計安全防護
協定，順利達成目標，並培育出相關的安全
協定設計與正規安全證明與驗證技術之研發
人才。
4. 研究成果的學術價值與應用價值：本研究成
果兼顧學術與應用層面，可予國內研究低資
源計算環境下之認證與鑰匙管理機制之相關
研究機構參考。
5. 適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利：本研究之
成果學術部分適合發表於國內外專業期刊，
而應用部分可申請專利。
6. 綜合評估：本研究在國科會給予足夠之經費
下，已順利完成，其部分成果發表或接受於
於國際期刊 [ 15, 35, 36, 37, 38]。因此自評為
佳。
參考文獻
[1] M. Bellare and P. Rogaway,
“Random Oracles Are Practical: A
Paradigm for Designing Efficient
Protocols,” In Proc. First Annual
Conference on Computer and
Communications Security, ACM,
1993.
[2] S. Bellovin and M. Merritt,
''Encrypted Key Exchange:
Password-Based Protocols Secure
Against Dictionary Attacks,''
Proceedings of IEEE Symposium
on Research in Security and
Privacy, pp. 72-84, 1992.
[3] D. Boneh and M. Franklin,
“Identity-based Encryption from
the Weil Pairing,” in Proc. Crypto
2001, LNCS, vol. 2139, Springer,
pp. 213-229, 2001.
[4] M. Burrows, M. Abadi and R.
Needham, “A Logic of
Authentication,” ACM Trans. on 
Computer Systems, Vol. 8, No. 1,
pp. 18-36, 1990.
[5] M. Das, A. Saxena, V. Gulati, and
D. Phatak, “A Novel Remote User
Authentication Scheme Using
Bilinear Pairings,” Computers &
Security, vol. 25, no. 3, pp.
184-189, 2006.
6[17] T. Kwon and D. H. Lee,
“Three-party Password
Authenticated Key Agreement
Resistant to Server Compromise,” 
Information Security Applications,
Lecture Notes in Computer Science,
vol. 4298, pp. 312-323, 2007.
[18] L. Lamport, “Password 
Authentication with Insecure
Communication,” Communications 
of the ACM, Vol. 24, pp. 770-772,
1981.
[19] K. Lauter, “The Advantages of
Elliptic Curve Cryptography for
Wireless Security,” IEEE Wireless
Communications, Vol. 11, No. 1, pp.
62-67, 2004.
[20] A. Lenstra, E. Tromer, A. Shamir,
W. Kortsmit, B. Dodson, J. Hughes
and P. Leyland, “Factoring
Estimates for a 1024-bit RSA
Modulus,” In Laih, C. (ed.), 
Advances in
Cryptology-AsiaCrypt'03, LNCS
2894, pp. 55-74, Springer, New
York, 2003.
[21] Z. Li, J. Higgins, and M. Clement,
“Performance of Finite Field
Arithmetic in an Elliptic Curve
Cryptosystem,” Ninth IEEE 
International Symposium on
Modeling, Analysis, and
Simulation of Computer and
Telecommunications Systems
(MASCOTS'01), pp. 249-256,
2001.
[22] C. Meadows, “Formal Methods for 
Cryptographic Protocol Analysis:
Emerging Issues and Trends,” IEEE 
Journal on Selected Area in
Communications, Vol. 21, No. 1,
2003.
[23] R. Merkle, “One Way Hash
Functions and DES,” In Brassard, 
G. (ed.), Advances in
Cryptology-Crypt'89, LNCS 435,
pp. 428-446, Springer, New York,
1989.
[24] D. MRaihi, M. Bellare, F.
Hoornaert, D. Naccache and O.
Ranen, “HOTP: An HMAC-Based
One-Time Password Algorithm,” 
RFC 4226, 2005.
[25] NIST FIPS PUB 180-2, “Secure 
Hash Standard,” National Institute
of Standards and Technology, U. S.
Department of Commerce, DRAFT,
2004.
[26] NIST FIPS PUB 197, “Announcing 
the Advanced Encryption Standard
(AES),” National Institute of 
Standards and Technology, U. S.
Department of Commerce, 2001.
[27] T. S. Parikh, “Using Mobile Phones
for Secure, Distributed Document
Processing in the Developing
World,” IEEE Pervasive
Computing, Vol. 4, No. 2, pp.
74-81, 2005.
[28] J. Scholtz, S. Consolvo, “Toward a
8Authenticated Key Agreement
Protocols,” IEICE Trans. 
Fundamentals, Vol. E87-A, No. 8,
pp. 2174-2176, 2004.
[40] X. Yi and K. Lam, ''Hash function
Based on Block Cipher,'' IEE
Electronic Letters, Vol. 33, No. 23,
pp. 1938-1940, 1997.
[41] X. Yi, “Eficient Id-based Key
Agreement Protocol from Weil
Pairing,” Electron. Lett., vol. 39, pp.
206-208, 2003.
2壹、 前言
The 5th Joint Workshop on Information Security 2010 每年舉辦一次，為
亞洲地區資訊安全有名的國際會議。會議討論議題涵蓋所有資訊安全理論與應
用。The 5th Joint Workshop on Information Security 2010 今年於大陸廣州舉
辦。今年此次會議共有共有一場大會主講, 兩場邀請演講與 38 篇論文發表。會
議主題涵蓋應用安全、安全分析、認證、安全管理、多人協定、布林函數與演算
法等。
貳、 邀請演講與論文發表
本次會議有兩天論文發表議程，共有一場大會主講, 兩場邀請演講與 38 篇
論文發表。整體觀之，The 5th Joint Workshop on Information Security 2010會議
是以資訊安全理論與應用為主軸，內容相當多元。大會主講為：Crytography in
the new era of ICT, Hideki Imai, Chuo University/AIST, Japan. 另外兩場
邀請演講為：(1) On Granular Access Control of Secure Messaging Scheme, Der
Tsai Lee, Academia Sinica, Taiwan; (2) Obivious Transfer with
Timed-Release Properties, Fangguo Zhang, Sun Yat-Sen University, China.
所接受論文發表包括應用安全、安全分析、認證、安全管理、多人協定、布林函
數與演算法等。以下簡述大會主講及部分論文發表內容。
大會主講題目為“Crytography in the new era of ICT”。講者為日本知
名資深學者Imai教授。Imai 教授公認為目前日本資訊安全研究方面的大師。其
為IEEE 與 IACR fellow。此演講其介紹密碼學於新的ICT 環境上的應用與挑戰。
第一場邀請演講題目為“On Granular Access Control of Secure Messaging
Scheme”。講者為在中研院資訊所服務的李院士。李院士目前為資安教學與研究
中心負責人，其負責國內資安研究與人才的培養任務。其介紹安全訊息系統中針
對訊息之存取控制策略。
第 二 場 邀 請 演 講 題 目 為 “Obivious Transfer with Timed-Release
Properties”。講者為在廣州中山大學任教的張教授。張教授為廣州省級資安關
鍵實驗室之協同負責人。負責廣東省資安研究之推廣。張教授介紹 OT 於時間限
制的安全應用。
4能發展方向。參加此次會議，可以強烈感受到資訊安全研究在世界各地的蓬勃發
展，令人印象深刻。另外由於雲端運算的蓬勃發展, 其所帶來的機會與挑戰也於
會中學者所注意與熱烈討論。而雲端運算所面臨的隱私保護, 認證等安全問題也
也是推行這些應用所必須面對與解決的迫切問題。
非常感謝國科會能提供足夠的經費讓本人參加此盛會。對本人而言，目睹世
界各國學者在資訊安全應用研究工作上的表現，也讓我們能掌握資訊安全應用的
主流研究趨勢。
肆、 攜回資料
本次參加會議所攜回之資料有下列三項：
1. 會議論文集摘要
2. 會議論文集全文光碟。
3. 大會議程手冊。
2claimed that their proposed scheme can prevent the replay attack, the spooﬁng
attack and the tracking attack.
In 2008, Cao and Shen proposed a cryptanalysis of the LCSS scheme [2]. Cao
and Shen claimed that Ha et al.’s scheme [4] only provides weak authentication
and can not prevent the denial of service attack. Then Cao and Shen proposed
an improved scheme to remedy to security problems in LCSS.
In 2008, Lim et al. proposed a new hash-based RFID mutual authentication
protocol providing enhanced user privacy protection [10]. In their paper, Lim et
al. used the one-way hash function to improve the security and eﬃciency. They
claimed that their proposed protocol can provide privacy protection and eﬃcient
mutual authentication.
In this paper, we propose a more eﬃcient authentication scheme for low-cost
RFID tags. Our RFID authentication scheme can satisfy all the beneﬁts of the
Cao and Shen’s [2] scheme, and Lim et al.’s scheme [10].
This paper is structured as follows. In Section 2, we review the related works.
In Section 3, we present our scheme. Section 4 is the security analysis of our
proposed scheme. In Section 5, we make a comparison among our scheme and
related schemes. The ﬁnal conclusions are then given in Section 6.
2 Related works
In this section, we will review the related RFID authentication schemes. In 2008,
Cao and Shen [2] proposed an improved LCSS authentication protocol for RFID
systems. We deﬁne the notations used in their protocol as follows:
Query: Requesting the authentication from the tag.
T : The RFID tag.
R: The RFID reader.
DB : The back-end database.
ID : The identity of a tag, k bits.
HID : The hashed value of ID, k bits.
PID : The previous identity of a tag for this session, k bits.
RR: The random number generated by the reader.
RT : The random number generated by the tag.
SYNC : The symbol used to record whether both the tag and the back-end
database are successful in updating ID simultaneously or not, 1 bit.
H(): The one-way hash function.
‖: The concatenation operator.
In Cao and Shen’s [2] scheme, before the authentication, the RFID tag T
holds a ﬁeld with ID and SYNC. Also the RFID database stores ID, PID and
SYNC in its memory. In the authentication process, the RFID reader R ﬁrst
broadcasts a query with a random number RR to T. Then T sends the message
P, a random numberRT and a message authentication codeM to R. The message
is then forwarded to DB with the random number RR. After DB receives the
message, it can authenticate T. Then it also transmits the message Q to T.
4Then DB will ﬁnd a matched value with ID of T in the second case. Oth-
erwise, if DB cannot ﬁnd the matched ID of T in the above two cases, it will
compute H = (PID‖RT ‖RR) for all PIDs and compares them with P. If DB
ﬁnds the matched value PID of T that is the last message blocked in the previ-
ous session, where the SYNC state is 1 and DB updated the tag’s ID, then the
tag’s ID was not updated.
If DB cannot ﬁnd the tag’s ID using the above three cases, it halts the search
for ID and requests R to query again. Finally, DB ﬁnds ID or PID by using
one of the three searching cases. Then DB computes the message authentication
code M = H(RT ‖ID‖RR) and checks if it is equal to M. If not, DB stops this
protocol. Otherwise DB computes Q = H(PID‖RT ) and then sends it to R. It
also computes ID = H(PID‖RR) and updates HID = H(ID) for being used
in the next session.
Step 5. R transmits the message Q to T.
Step 6. When T receives the message from R, it will compute H(ID‖RR)
and checks if it is equal to Q. If yes, T can compute H = (ID‖RT ) and update
ID, and store it in the memory, and then set SYNC as 0.
3 Our proposed scheme
In this section, we will demonstrate our proposed RFID scheme. Our proposed
scheme uses the lightweight operations, such as the exclusive-or operation. Our
proposed scheme also uses the random number and the secret key to resist the
replay attack and other well-known attacks. The notations used in our scheme
are as follows:
Query: The request generated by the database.
T : The RFID tag.
DB : The back-end database.
IDT : The identity of the tag, k bits.
ID : The identity of the tag stored in the database memory, k bits.
PID : The previous identity of the tag used in the previous session, k bits.
RR: The random number generated by the database.
RT : The random number generated by the tag.
K : The secret key stored in the database and the tag.
Kprev: The secret key used in the previous session and stored in the database.
H(): The one-way hash function.
‖: The concatenation operation.⊕
: The exclusive-or operation.
Then we describe our proposed scheme as follows.
Step 1. DB broadcasts a random number RR as a challenge to T.
Step 2. After T receives the message, T generates a random number RT
and computes a message authentication code M = H(K
⊕
(RT ‖RR)). Then T
sends the message authentication code M and a random number RT to DB.
64 Performance consideration
In this section, we analyze the eﬃciency of our proposed scheme. In our scheme,
we assume that the size of the random number is of 32 bits and the output size
of the one-way hashing function is of 128 bits [12][14]. We also will demonstrate
the capability comparison among our proposed scheme and related schemes.
In our proposed scheme, there are only three transmitted messages between the
database DB and the tag T. The tag’s computation cost is of four one-way hash-
ing operations and one random number generation operation. The database’s
computation cost is of ﬁve one-way hashing operations and one random number
generation operation.
In Ha et al.’s scheme [4], there are three transmitted messages between the
database and the tag and it needs 352 bits. The tag’s computation cost is of
four one-way hashing operations and one random number generation operation.
The database’s computation cost is of ﬁve one-way hashing operations and one
random number generation operation.
In Cao and Shen’s scheme [2], there are three transmitted messages between
the database and the tag and it needs 480 bits. The tag’s computation cost is of
ﬁve one-way hashing operations and one random number generation operation.
The database’s computation cost is of six one-way hashing operations and one
random number generation operation.
In Lim et al.’s scheme [10], there are three transmitted messages between
the database and the tag and it needs 480 bits. The tag’s computation cost is of
four one-way hashing operations and one random number generation operation.
The database’s computation cost is of nine one-way hashing operations and one
random number generation operation. The communication and computation cost
of our proposed scheme is lower than those of the other related schemes.
Table 1 shows the eﬃciency comparison among our scheme and related
schemes.
Table 1. Eﬃciency comparsions among our scheme and related schemes
Computation Cost
Communication cost Tag Database
Our scheme 320 bits 4Hash+1R 5Hash+1R
Ha et al.’s protocol[4] 352 bits 4Hash+1R 5Hash+1R
LCSS protocol[2] 480 bits 5Hash+1R 6Hash+1R
Lim et al.’s protocol[10] 480 bits 5Hash+1R 9Hash+1R
Hash: one-way hash operation;
R: a random number generation;
5 Security analysis and properties comparisons
In this section, we will analyze the security of our proposed protocol.
8M to the database. The identity information of the tag is not sent to the server
in plaintext. Even if an attacker obtains the message authentication code M,
she/he cannot link it to a particular tag. Our proposed scheme can provide the
tag anonymity.
5.6 Preventing the spoofing attack
In our proposed scheme, if an eavesdropper replaces RT and RR using the ran-
dom number chosen by herself/himself, the eavesdropper also can not generate
the message authentication code M = (K
⊕
(RT ‖RR)) and then sends it to
the database. When the database receives the message from the tag, it can use
the secret key K between the tag and the database to compute the message
authentication code M and check the validity of the message authentication
code M. The eavesdropper could not derive the secret K from these transmitted
messages. Our scheme can prevent the spooﬁng attack.
5.7 Session key agreement
In our scheme, the database and the tag can agree a session keyK = H(Kprev‖RR
‖RT ) after the authentication and use in the subsequent secure communications.
We can use the session key to protect the subsequent transmitted messages in
our scheme. If an attacker camouﬂages the legal tag to access the database, the
database will use the session key to authenticate the tag and can terminate the
session.
Table 2 shows the capability comparisons among our RFID scheme and re-
lated schemes.
Table 2. Capability comparisons among our RFID scheme and related schemes
C1 C2 C3 C4 C5 C6 C7 C8
Our scheme Low Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Ha et al.’s protocol[4] Medium Yes No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
LCSS protocol[2] Medium Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Lim et al.’s protocol[10] Medium Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
C1: Communication and computation cost
C2: Mutual authentication
C3: Preventing the replay attack
C4: Preventing the denial of service attack
C5: No time-synchronization problem
C6: Anonymity
C7: No spooﬁng attack
C8: Session key agreement
10
11. D. Mathieu and R. P. Neeli, ”Providing Strong Security and High Privacy in Low-
Cost RFID Networks,” Proceeding of First International ICST Conference on Pro-
viding Strong Security and High Privacy in Low-Cost RFID Networks, Lecture Notes
of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social Informatics and Telecommunications
Engineering, Vol. 17, pp. 172-179, 2009.
12. NIST FIPS PUB 180-2, ”Secure Hash Standard,” National Institute of Standards
and Technology, U. S. Department of Commerce, Draft, 2004.
13. M. Ohkubo, K. Suzuki, S. Kinoshita, ”RFID Privacy Issues and Technical Chal-
lenges,” Communications of The ACM, Vol. 48, No. 9, pp. 66-71, 2005.
14. R. Rivest, ”The MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm,” IETF RFC 1321, April, 1992.
15. D. H. Seo, J. M. Baek and D. S. Cho, ”Secure Authentication and Management
Scheme for RFID,” Proceedings of The 4th ACM Symposium on QoS and Security
for Wireless and Mobile Networks, pp.106-110, 2008.
16. B. Song and C. J. Mitchell, ”RFID Authentication Protocol for Low-cost Tags,”
Proceedings of The First ACM Conference on Wireless Network Security, pp. 140-
147, 2008.
17. S. Weis, S. Sarma, R. Rivest and D. Engels, ”Security and Privacy Aspects of Low-
Cost Radio Frequency Identiﬁcation Systems,” Proceedings of First International
Conference on Security in Pervasive Computing, LNCS, Vol. 2802, pp. 201-212,
2004.
2seem to be a perfect solution. The problem of unconditional anonymity was in-
dicated by Solms and Naccache [15]. For providing the traceability, a fair blind
signature scheme was proposed by Stadler et al. [14] in 1996. This scheme allows
the judge to derive the real identity of the customer when needed.
In order to make key management processes simple in certiﬁcate-based PKI,
the idea of identity-based signature and encryption was proposed by Shamir [11]
in 1985. The main concept was using the user public information (for example:
name, e-mail address or other identity information) in the public key setting,
which was greatly diﬀerent from the general public key system. In 1997, Park et
al. [9] proposed an ID-based group signature scheme which used the identities of
group members to verify the group signature. In 2003, to solve the key escrow
[7] problem in the ID-based system, Chen et al. [4] introduced a new ID-based
system from pairings.
In general, most of the proposed e-cash schemes need that the customer and
the merchant open their accounts in the same bank, and only one bank can issue
the e-cash. The customer and the merchant may belong to the diﬀerent banks in
real life. In 2001, an electronic cash system with multiple banks was proposed by
Zhang et al [20]. In 2008, Wang et al. proposed an electronic cash scheme based
on an ID-based group signature. The objective of their scheme is to solve the
problem of a trusted third party in Zhang et al.’s system. Wang et al. claimed
that their scheme is secure. But we ﬁnd that it does not satisfy the unforgeable
requirement since an attacker can pretend to be any eligible customer to obtain
a valid e-cash from the bank. In this paper, we propose an e-cash scheme that
not only can preserve all the nice properties of Wang et al.’s scheme, but also can
solve the security problems in their scheme. Also, our scheme is more eﬃcient
than Wang et al.’s scheme.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: we brieﬂy introduce some
preliminaries used in our scheme in Section 2. Our e-cash scheme is presented in
Section 3. In Section 4, we describe the correctness and security considerations
of our scheme. Performance comparison is shown in Section 5. In Section 6, a
conclusions remark is given.
2 Preliminary
2.1 Bilinear pairings and the underlying assumptions
The pairings refer to the corresponding linear map relationship between the two
cyclic groups, so it is also called an admissible bilinear map. The set consists of
all points on the elliptic curve, which must make up the relationship of ”group”
in the abstract algebraic geometry, so the operation of bilinear pairing can be
applied to elliptic curve exactly. The bilinear pairings can be derived from the
Weil or Tate pairings. The related parameters and symbols of bilinear pairing
are as follows. Let (G1,+) denote a cyclic additive group of a prime order q and
(G2,×) denote a cyclic multiplicative group of a prime order q. Let e : G1×G1 →
G2 be a bilinear pairing. The bilinear pairing has to meet the following three
properties.
45. The veriﬁcation phase: The veriﬁer has to compute H = h1(U +W +R) to
check the validity by using the equation e(V, P ) = e(R,Ppub)H · e(h2(m‖U +
W + R), U).
6. The opening phase: When KCC gets a signature of m, KCC can use the fol-
lowing three equations e(U,P )e(W, rP ) = e(rxP, P ), e(SA, P ) = e(h2(IDA‖
rxP ), Ppub) and e(SIDA , P ) = e(h2(IDA‖rP ), Ppub) to ﬁnd out the real user.
3 Our proposed scheme
Now we propose our e-cash scheme based on group signatures. Four kinds of
participants: the central bank, the banks, the customer, and the merchant are
involved in our scheme. The central bank needs to do the enrollment of any
bank and any customer in a group, and records all the related information about
the legitimate members of the group, which includes the members’ public keys.
The central bank has right to administer and revoke the bank or customer’s
permissions in the group. If the condition of double spending is happened, she/he
can reveal the real identity of the customer. The bank can sign and issue the
e-cash. Before signing the e-cash, the bank must verify whether the customer
is the group member or not. If it is true, the signing process will continue,
otherwise the action will be halted. Any customer can apply for the e-cash from
her/his registered bank. In the payment phase, the merchant needs to verify the
signature of e-cash and trade information provided from the customer.
3.1 Notations
The notations used in our proposed scheme are deﬁned as follows:
1. ê : a bilinear pairing function, where ê : G1 ×G1 → G2.
2. (G1,+), (G2, ·) : two cyclic groups of a order q, which are generated from P .
3. H(·), H1(·) : two hash functions, where H(·) : (0, 1)∗×G1 → Z∗q and H1(·) :
(0, 1)∗ ×G1 → G1.
4. (rc, SIDCi ) : the private key of the customer with the identity IDCi.
5. (rb, SIDBi ) : the private key of the bank with the identity IDBi .
6. rcP, xciP,
1
H(xciP )+H(rc)
P : three public keys of the customer IDCi .
7. ( 1H(xciP )+H(rc)P, SCi) : the member certiﬁcate of the customer IDCi .
3.2 The setup protocol
The central bank generates her/his master secret key s ∈ Z∗q and her/his public
key Ppub = sP . The information < G1, G2, e, q, P, Ppub, H,H1 > are announced
by the central bank. Then, the customer and the bank must set up their initial-
izing public/private keys in the central bank, respectively.
A. The customer:
6If the bank wants to join a group, then she/he does the following. Like the
above three steps done by the customer, Bi must do the same process to get
her/his own member certiﬁcate, so that Bi can use the legitimate member cer-
tiﬁcate to generate the signature of electronic cash later. The registration process
is shown as follows:
Step 1. Bi randomly chooses a secret number αbi ∈ Z∗q and computes the public
key αbiP . She/he then sends the information (rbP , αbiP ,
1
H(αbiP )+H(rb)
P ,
IDBi , SIDBi ) to the central bank.
Step 2. When the central bank receives the request of Bi, she can check the
correctness of the request by verifying if SIDBi
?= sH1(IDBi‖Ti, rbP ) and
eˆ(H(αbiP )P +H(rb)P,
1
H(αbiP )+H(rb)
P ) ?= eˆ(P, P ). If it is valid, the central
bank records (rbP ,αbiP ,
1
H(αbiP )+H(rb)
P , IDBi) about Bi in the bank mem-
ber table. Then she/he generates SBi and sends it back to Bi secretly, where
SBi = sH1(Ti,
1
H(αbiP )+H(rb)
P ).
Step 3. Finally, Bi can verify SBi by using the equation eˆ(SBi , p) = eˆ(H1(Ti,
1
H(αbiP )+H(rb)
P ), Ppub). If yes, Bi will get her/his member certiﬁcate (SBi ,
1
H(αbiP )+H(rb)
P ).
3.4 The withdrawal protocol
The participants in this phase are the customer and the bank. Before the cus-
tomer requests for the signature of electronic cash from Bi, they should do the
authentication process. The customer and the bank have to prove that they know
the secret Sci between them. The authentication phase is in the following:
Step 1. The customer chooses a random number rcj ∈ Z∗q and computes vi =
H(IDBi‖Si), then she/he sends a request with a nonce γ1 and the encrypted
message Evi(rcj , H(IDBi‖γ1)) to the bank Bi.
Step 2. When Bi receives the information from Ci, she/he will use the infor-
mation vi = H(IDBi‖Si) receiving from the central bank to decrypt the
encrypted message Evi(rcj ,H(IDBi‖γ1)) and to check whether γ1 is fresh.
If yes, she/he chooses rbj ∈ Z∗q and then sends back the encrypted message
Evi(rbj , γ1 + 1, γ2) to Ci.
Step 3. Ci decrypts the received information by computing Dvi(Evi (rbj , γ1 +
1, γ2)), and if the nonce γ2 is fresh, she/he computes kj = H(rbj , rcj , vi),
and then transmits the encrypted message Ekj (γ2 + 1) to Bi.
Now, we describe our proposed withdrawing process. We assume that the
customer passes the authentication phase, so she/he can do the following steps
with Bi to obtain e-cash.
Step 1. Bi randomly chooses a secret value κ ∈ Z∗q and then sends R =
κH1(Ti, 1H(αbiP )+H(rb)
P ) to Ci.
83.7 The customer tracing protocol
If the bank Bj discovers the double spending of some e-cash, she/he can ask
the central bank to ﬁnd out the owner of the e-cash. The central bank requests
the information (m, R˜, V˜ , W˜ , Ti, 1H(αbiP )+H(rb)
P ) and (θ, R”, V ”, W”, ti,
1
H(xciP )+H(rc)
P ) from Bj . She/he uses 1H(αbiP )+H(rb)
P to check the bank mem-
ber list for ﬁnding the signer of this e-cash. Then she/he checks if the following
two equations hold:
eˆ(H(xciP )P + H(rc)P,
1
(H(xciP ) + H(rc))
P ) ?= eˆ(P, P ); (3)
eˆ(Sci , P )
?= eˆ(H1(ti,
1
H(xciP ) + H(rc)
P ), Ppub). (4)
If these two equations are valid, the double spending customer will be found.
3.8 The revoking protocol
Assume that the central bank has a certiﬁcate revocation list which records the
information of revoked group members. The items in the certiﬁcate revocation
list are (QIDBi , Trevoke) and (QIDCi , trevoke), where (QIDBi , Trevoke) is a group
member with the public key QIDBi (or QIDCi ) and was revoked at the time
Trevoke. Anyone can request the certiﬁcate revocation list for checking if come
member is included in a group.
4 Discussion
4.1 Security analysis
4.2.1 Correctness considerations
Proposition 1. In the registration phase, the equation eˆ(H(xciP )P +H(rc)P ,
1
(H(xciP )+H(rc))
P )= eˆ(P, P )can be used to check the validity of the public key of
the registrant (the customer or the bank) by the central bank.
Proof.
eˆ(H(xciP )P + H(rc)P,
1
(H(xciP )+H(rc))
P )
= eˆ((H(xciP ) + H(rc))P, (H(xciP ) + H(rc))−1P )
= eˆ(P, P )(H(xciP )+H(rc))∗(H(xciP )+H(rc))
−1
= eˆ(P, P ) unionsq
Proposition 2. In the withdrawal phase of our scheme, the equation eˆ(W˜ , P )=
eˆ(R˜ + V˜ Q, Ppub) is used to check the correctness of the signature (m, R˜, V˜ ,
W˜ , Ti, 1H(rbP )+H(αbi )
P ) of the e-cash by the customer. In the payment phase,
the merchant also can use the equation eˆ(W˜ , P )= eˆ(R˜+ V˜ Q, Ppub) to verify the
e-cash of the customer.
10
the e-cash to her/his corresponding bank Bj , the bank Bj can connect to the
online database to check if the double spending exists. If yes, the bank Bj can
ask for the central bank to ﬁnd out the dishonest customer by carrying out the
customer tracing protocol. If the e-cash has never been used, it will be deposited
in the account of the merchant by the bank Bj , and the central bank will record
the used e-cash.
4.2.4 Anonymity
When the merchant gets the e-cash (m,R′, V ′,W ′, Ti, 1H(αbiP )+H(rb)P ) and the
signature of the transaction information (M,R”, V ”,W”, ti, 1H(xciP )+H(rc)P ) from
IDCi in the payment stage, she/he can not learn the identity of IDCi. Since
xci , rc all are randomly chosen and are protected by the hash function H , no
one can link the customer’s identity with 1H(xciP )+H(rc)P except the central bank
(as described in the customer tracing protocol).
4.2 Properties comparison
In this section, we will describe the properties comparison among our e-cash
scheme and related schemes. We summarize the comparison in Table 1. From
Table 1, we can see that our e-cash scheme not only can satisfy all the security
properties, like customer’s privacy, mutual authentication, e-cash veriﬁcation
and accurate tracing protocol, but also can prevent double spending and the
e-cash forging.
Table 1. Properties comparisons among our e-cash scheme and related schemes
P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 P10 P11
Our Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Wang[17] Yes No Yes Yes No Yes No Yes No No Yes
Chou[5] Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes No Yes Yes Yes
Popescu[10] Yes No No Yes No Yes No No No No No
P1: Anonymity of customer; P2: Providing the tracing function;
P3: Supporting authentication in the withdrawal phase; P4: Non-repudiability;
P5: Preventing forging the e-cash; P6: No needing the help of a TTP in the tracing
protocol; P7: Revokability; P8: Supporting multiple banks;
P9: The veriﬁcation of the member certiﬁcate for the customer; P10: Veriﬁability;
P11: The veriﬁcation of the e-cash for the customer in the withdrawal protocol.
4.3 Eﬃciency analysis and comparison
Our scheme is based on the bilinear mapping in elliptic curves. Compared to
RSA, only a small length key will be used to achieve the same security of RSA.
For example, in ECC, the key length of 192-bit has a same security level with
the key length of 1024-bit in RSA.
12
From Table 3, we can see that the total computation cost in Popescu et al.’s
scheme is of 292M , that in Chou et al.’s scheme [5] is of 885M +2T (D), that in
Wang et al.’s scheme is of 372M and that in our scheme is of 571.9M .
From Table 4, we can see that the communication cost of the withdrawing
protocol in our scheme is of 160*4=640 bits, and the communication cost for
the authentication protocol in our scheme is of 640 bits. Thus, C1 in Table 4
is only 1280 bits. In Wang et al.’s scheme [17], the communication cost of the
withdrawing protocol is of 160*7=1120 bits and the communication cost for the
authentication protocol is of 640 bits. Thus, C1 of [17] in Table 4 is 1760 bits.
The communication cost of the withdrawing protocol in Chou et al.’s scheme [5]
is of 384+1952=2336 bits and Popescu et al.’s scheme is of 160*7=1120 bits. In
[10], they do not provide the authentication protocol before the issuing phase.
We only need three messages to complete the issue of e-cash. On the other hand,
there are ﬁve messages in Wang et al. and Popescu et al.’s scheme.
In Table 4, we include the cost of communications and computation of au-
thentication protocol in the withdrawal protocol. The computation cost of with-
drawing an e-cash for the customer in Wang et al.’s scheme [17] is of ﬁve scalar
multiplication of point operation in elliptic curve, three addition of point op-
eration in elliptic curve, three hash function operation and one multiplication
operation in module. The total cost is of 168M . That in Chouet al.’s scheme [5]
is of one pairings operation in elliptic curve, three scalar multiplication of point
operation in elliptic curve, two hash function operation, ﬁve multiplication op-
eration in module, one inverse operation and two Diﬃe-Hellman operation. The
total cost is of 176.9M +2T (D). That in Popescu et al.’s scheme [10] is of three
scalar multiplication of point operation in elliptic curve, four addition of point
operation in elliptic curve and two hash function operation. The total cost is
of 111M . That in our scheme is of two scalar multiplication of point operation
in elliptic curve, two addition of point operation in elliptic curve, three hash
function operation and three symmetric encrypting/decrypting operation. The
total cost is of 71M + 3T (S).
The total computation cost of the withdrawing protocol in Wang et al.’s
scheme [17] is of 615M . That in Chou et al.’s scheme is of 759.8M+4T (D). That
in Popescu et al.’s scheme [10] is of 232M . That in our scheme is of 357M+6T (S).
In Popescu et al.’s scheme [10], they do not provide the veriﬁcation function of
the e-cash for the customer.
For the payment phase, the computation cost of the customer in our scheme is
of 61M . The computation cost of the customer in Wang et al.’s scheme is of 96M ,
that in [5] is of 111M+1TD and that in [10] is of 127M . In the veriﬁcation process,
we only need four pairing operations, eight point scalar multiplication operations,
four addition of point operations to complete the veriﬁcation precess. For the
deposit phase, C7 of our scheme is only two pairings operations, four point scalar
multiplication operations, and one addition of point operation. Through Table
5, we see that C7 of our scheme is lowest than the other schemes.
14
Table 6. Cost comparisons of the deposit protocol among our e-cash scheme
and related schemes
Our Wang[17] Chou[5] Popescu[10]
C1 1472 bits 1472 bits 928 bits 672 bits
C4 NA NA 1ECp + 1ECm 1ECA + 3TH
+1TH ∼= ∼= 6M
111M + 1TD
C5 NA NA 1ECp + 1ECm NA
+1TH ∼=
111M + 1TD
C7 2ECp + 4ECm 4ECp + 6ECm 3ECp + 6ECm 2ECp + 5ECm
+1ECA ∼= 285M +1ECA + 1TH +1TH + 6M ∼= +3ECA ∼=∼= 506M 427.9M 325M
Table 7. Cost comparisons of the tracing protocol among our e-cash scheme and
related schemes
Our Wang[17] Chou[5] Popescu[10]
C1 1472 bits 1472 bits 160 bits 672 bits
C7 4ECp + 3ECm + 1ECA 4ECp + 2ECm 1TH ∼= 1M 4ECp + 2ECm
+2TH ∼= 416M +1TH ∼= 381M +1TD + 1XOR +1TH ∼= 381M
5 Conclusions
In this paper, we have proposed a new e-cash scheme from bilinear pairings. Our
scheme can satisﬁes all the security properties of anonymity, non-repudiability
and unforgeability. Also, our scheme is more eﬃcient than the other schemes
[5], [10], [17]. In the future, we also will investistigate additional functions of
electronic cash, like the functions of negotiability or divisibility in our proposed
e-cash scheme.
Acknowledgment
This work was supported in part by the National Science Council of the Republic
of China under the Grant NSC 98-2221-E-327-026.
References
1. N. Asokan, P.A. Janson, M. Steiner and M. Waidner, ”The state of the art in
electronic payment systems,” Computer, IEEE Computer Society, Vol. 30, pp. 28-
35, 1997.
2. S. Canard and A. Gouget, ”Divisible e-cash systems can be truly anonymous,” Pro-
ceedings of 26th Annual International Conference on the Theory and Applications of
Cryptographic Techniques, EUROCRYPT 2007, LNCS, Vol. 4515, Springer Verlag,
pp. 482-497, 2007.
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/01/12
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 低資源環境下防安全權杖遺失與伺服器入侵之強韌的認證與金鑰管理之研究
計畫主持人: 莊文勝
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-327-026- 學門領域: 資訊安全
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
發表重要國際期刊論文五篇, 國際會議論文兩篇, 對相關領域有重要影響力. 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
