include pressure sensors, microphones, accelerometers 
and gyroscopes. As compared with IC package, MEMS 
package requires much higher technical supports and 
thresholds and has more complicated packaging 
procedures. Furthermore, due to the lack of package 
standards and criteria set in the industry, MEMS 
package takes up as highly as 70~90% of total amount 
of manufacturing cost for a single CMOS-MEMS chip. 
Most MEMS sensors and actuators are widely applied to 
numerous devices on cars or aircrafts with extremely 
concerns about the human safety issue so that their 
joint reliability is more demanding than that of 
traditional IC package.         
The copper pillars in this study made with the 
optimized plating and polishing parameters will be 
deposited in the second step on the Cu or Al UBM, 
both of which are commonly used in the CMOS process 
to act as passivation layers. Afterwards, the high 
speed impact tester and pull/shear testers provided 
by Prof. Duh’s lab at the Department of Material 
Science and Engineering in NTHU will be adopted to 
evaluate the joint strength and reliability. FE-SEM 
and EPMA will also be utilized to observe interfacial 
reaction, IMC growth and elemental distribution.  
Finally, the optimized copper pillars will be 
practically plated on the pads in a CMOS-MEMS chip 
wafer designed in the third step by Prof. Huang’s 
lab at the Institute of Mechatronic Engineering in 
NTUT. They will be joined by reflow with the other 
cap wafer to form a hollow space to allow the 
suspended and moving parts in the first chip wafer to 
functionally move. A special vibrator (shaker) from 
KYEC will be applied to provide a dynamic environment 
similar to a real environment for the assembled COMS-
MEMS chips. Finally, a cross-section polisher (CP) is 
expected to be particularly utilized to separate the 
assembled COMS-MEMS chips into two pieces for further 
interfacial reaction or IMC growth observation.   
 
 
英文關鍵詞： MEMS, lead-free solder, copper pillar, joint 
1 
 
                                                      
行政院國家科學委員會補助研究學者專題研究計畫成果精簡報告 
計畫名稱：應用在 CMOS微機電晶片之銅導柱接合界面與機械性質之封裝可
靠度研究 
計畫類別：研究學者專題研究計畫(個別型) 
計畫編號：NSC 100-2218-E-007-008 
執行期間： 2010年 1月 1日至 2010年 12月 31日 
執行單位：國立清華大學材料與工程學系 
計畫主持人：趙本善 
共同主持人：清華大學材料系杜正恭教授、台北科技大學機電所黃榮堂教授 
計畫參與人員：趙本善(博士後研究員)、清大材料碩士級研究生 
（一） 計畫中文摘要。（五百字以內） 
 
    目前市面上常見的 CMOS 微機電產品包含壓力感測器、麥克風、加速度計與陀螺儀。
相較於一般 IC 封裝，微機電封裝所需要的技術門檻與製程複雜性都相對的提高。此外，
當前業界並沒有一定的封裝規範，所以目前微機電產品的封裝成本佔了整體製造成本的
70~90% 左右。許多微機電感測器或致動器都被廣泛使用在與人體安全有關的汽車或飛機
上，因此封裝可靠度的要求比 IC封裝來的更高。 
    在微機電產品中，可靠度的評估可分成兩種。第一種是測試內部動態或懸浮元件的可
靠度，評估內部元件是否可輸出所需之訊號或功能。第二種則是分析晶片在封裝後密封性
以及接合焊料機械性質與材料界面反應。好的密封性與接合可靠度可以隔絕外在環境對內
部動態元件或懸浮元件的干擾，避免產品在使用時造成失效的情況發生。目前無論學界或
業界皆甚少提出有關微機電產品封裝可靠度評估方法相關的研究。 
本計劃第一階段預計使用脈衝電鍍製作雙層銅導柱凸塊，並藉由調整通入電流之 Ton
與 Toff的時間，或其他相關之電鍍參數，控制第一層銅凸塊微結構，藉以強化銅凸塊之材
料與機械性質。接著使用相同方式，在銅凸塊的上層再堆疊第二層無鉛銲料如錫銅或純錫
銲料。之後再利用類似 CMP的研磨技術，對電鍍凸塊進行平坦化，並探討相關研磨參數對
凸塊均勻性之影響。研磨後之高共面度銅導柱凸塊對於晶片封裝對準非常有幫助。 
第二階段將電鍍與研磨參數最佳化之雙層銅導柱沈積在 CMOS 晶片常用之鋁或銅銲墊
3 
 
(二) 計畫英文摘要。（五百字以內） 
 
    Current commercial MEMS products in the market include pressure sensors, microphones, 
accelerometers and gyroscopes. As compared with IC package, MEMS package requires much 
higher technical supports and thresholds and has more complicated packaging procedures. 
Furthermore, due to the lack of package standards and criteria set in the industry, MEMS package 
takes up as highly as 70~90% of total amount of manufacturing cost for a single CMOS-MEMS 
chip. Most MEMS sensors and actuators are widely applied to numerous devices on cars or 
aircrafts with extremely concerns about the human safety issue so that their joint reliability is 
more demanding than that of traditional IC package.         
    MEMS package reliability research can be divided into two directions. First is to evaluate 
the functionality of the interior suspended or moving parts and to measure their input and output 
signals under the stimulus of outside signals like pressure, voice or acceleration. Second involves 
the assessments of hermeticity and joint reliability and mechanical characteristics between a 
CMOS-MEMS chip wafer and a cap wafer after packaging. Tight hermeticity and good joint 
reliability can effectively isolate undesired outside interferences from the suspended or moving 
parts in the CMOS-MEMS chips and prevent CMOS-MEMS products in use from failure. At 
present few studies regarding MEMS package reliability analysis have been reported in the 
industry and academia.       
Cu bumps, the first layers of a copper pillars, with good mechanical and material properties 
will be fabricated in the first step by controlling microstructures via changing plating parameters 
in a pulse or a pulse-reverse plating mode with different Ton and Toff. Lead-free solders, such as 
99.3Sn-0.7Cu or pure Sn, will be subsequently deposited on the first-layer Cu bumps with an 
identical microstructure control technique utilized to make the first-layer Cu bumps to serve as 
the second layer, which will later joint with the pads on the cap wafer. A CMP-like polisher will 
also be employed to separately polish the first Cu bumps and the second lead-free solders across 
the whole chip wafer. The related polishing parameters affecting polishing parameters will be 
5 
 
(三)研究內容 
1. Introduction 
At the beginning of 2006, Intel officially announced the use of advanced copper pillars 
(copper posts or copper bumps) to replace the use of traditional 63 Sn-37 Pb eutectic to form 
interconnections between dies and boards in Presler and Yonah processors. These special 
cylindrical copper pillar connections function with a solder deposit instead of the usual solder 
bumps or solder balls to form the connecting element. A bonding comparison between a solder 
ball and a copper pillar is shown in Fig. 1 [1]. Apparently, copper pillars enable the die to be 
fabricated far away from the substrate, which largely diminishes the occurrence of Sn whiskers 
that mainly originated from strains in the solder joint, as shown in Fig. 2 [2]. As compared to 
traditional single-layer flip chip solder bumps, double-layer copper pillars improve reliability and 
enhance electrical and thermal characteristics due to greater conductivity from copper [3]. Indeed, 
it electrical and thermal performances are better than those of the traditional 63Sn/37Pb eutectic 
by as large as 25 times.  
 
  
Traditional single-layer 
solder ball 
Advanced double-layer  
copper pillar 
 
Fig. 1 A schematic diagram of a solder ball and a copper pillar [1] 
 
7 
 
copper portion is manufactured with a height of 50-70 μm and the solder on the tip had better 
being constricted between 20 to 35 μm in height in order to obtain higher yield and reliability [7]. 
Copper pillars do not have definite forms, they range from having a slim shape to a chubby one 
or having a solder cap covering the top of copper and a cylinder with a fine pitch size, as shown 
in Figs. 4 [8-9] and 5 [9-10]. Even the triple-layer copper pillars (numbered 212, 214 and 216) 
had been published in 2006, as shown in Fig.6 [11]; therefore, it has become even more pertinent 
to effectively control the non-uniformity of solder bumps. 
 
    
  Slim-shaped copper pillars Chubby-shaped copper pillars  
Fig.4 Copper pillars with slim-and chubby-shapes [8-9] 
 
  
    
 
A copper pillar with 
a solder cap 
Cylinder-shaped copper 
pillar with a fine pitch size  
Fig.5 Copper pillars with a solder cap and a fine pitch size [9-10] 
 
9 
 
                                    
        
 
                                     
 
 
 
 
    
First layer of Cu after plating First layer of Cu after polishing 
 
Second layer of 99.3 Sn-0.7 Cu  
after plating 
Second layer of 99.3 Sn-0.7 Cu  
after polishing 
 
Fig.7 Plain-view images of the first layer of Cu and the second layer of 99.3 Sn-0.7 
Cu after plating and polishing processes 
 
                                   
        
 
                                   
 Cross-section morphology of 
mushroom-like structures on 
the first layer of Cu  
after plating 
Cross-section morphology of 
mushroom-like structures on the 
second layer of 99.3 Sn-0.7 Cu 
after plating 
 Mushroom-like structures 
    
Fig.8 Cross-section images of mushroom-like structures on Cu/99.3 Sn-0.7 Cu 
copper pillars after plating process 
11 
 
reflow would remain at the same total height.       
 
                            
 
Slight mismatch  
 
Fig. 10 Cross-section images of double-layer Cu/99.3 Sn-0.7 Cu copper pillars after 
reflow process 
 
3. Reference 
[1] http://www.semiconductor.net/article/CA6309224.html. 
[2] http://www.electronicsweekly.com/ARTICLES/2006/01/26/37494/Copper+posts+replace+so
lder+balls+at+Intel.HTM. 
[3] S. Lee, Y. X. Guo and C. K. Ong, “Electromigration effect on Cu-pillar (Sn) bumps,” IEEE 
Electronics Packaging Technology Conference, p. 135, 2005.   
[4] Tie Wang, Francisca Tung, Louis Foo and Vivek Dutta, “Studies on a novel flip chip 
interconnect structures pillar bump,” IEEE Electronic Components and Technology 
Conference, 2001.  
[5] D. Gupta, M. Fria and F. Kalle, “A low cost plated column bump technology for sub 100 nm 
and WLP applications,” IEEE Electronic Components and Technology Conference, p. 58, 
2004.  
[6] Richard Ball, “Copper posts replace solder Balls at Intel,” Electronics Weekly, 1/27/2006. 
[7] Lau Kee Kwang and Tan Kim Hwee, “Flip chip on lead-frame assembly using copper pillar 
bump technology,” Advanced Solutions Pte Ltd (APS) Singapore, p. 2. 
[8] http://www.trafalgar2.com/documents/Technical_Articles/6.5-kloeser.pdf. 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/08/19
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 應用在CMOS微機電晶片之銅導柱接合界面與機械性質之封裝可靠度研究
計畫主持人: 趙本善
計畫編號: 100-2218-E-007-008- 學門領域: 表面技術
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
