 2
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
 
SDMA-Based Relaying Strategies in Multiuser Cooperative Networks 
多使用者合作式通訊中使用分址多工的中繼方式之研究 
 
 
 
 
計畫類別：個別型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 98－2221－ E －110－045－ 
執行期間： 2009 年 8 月  1 日至 2010 年 7 月 31 日 
 
 
執行機構及系所：中山大學通訊工程研究所 
 
計畫主持人：黃婉甄 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：周晨熙、蘇睿鵬、洪榮定、王俊凱、劉俊廷 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：精簡報告  
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
 
 
中   華   民   國  99 年  9 月  30 日 
附件一 
 4
（二） 計畫英文摘要。 
Cooperative communication attracts lots of concerns recently for the intelligent resource-sharing among the 
single-antenna mobile users to exploit the spatial diversity. The cooperating users serve as relay nodes to 
provide alternative transmission paths and form a virtual antenna array to enhance the signal reception at the 
destination. In the past, the resource allocations among cooperating users under different network topologies 
and optimal criteria were proposed mostly for the case with single source-destination pair. 
 
If multiple source nodes would like to leverage the spatial diversity in the cooperative networks, the resource 
provided by a set of relay nodes was usually allocated in an orthogonal manner over the time domain or the 
frequency domain. To simultaneously enhance the spectral efficiency and exploit the spatial diversity, user 
cooperation was introduced to the synchronous CDMA networks. With multiuser detection and optimal design 
of precoders at relays and the destination, we showed that each source user can still achieve full diversity gain 
in the presences of multiple access interference(MAI) [6-7]. However, it still demands wide bandwidth to 
accommodate multiple users’ transmissions in the CDMA networks. 
 
Consider the cooperative network where N nodes act as source node transmitting signals to their destinations 
respectively; i.e., all source-destination pairs share the resources provided by the set of relay nodes. Since 
these source nodes and destination nodes are distributed at different locations, the use of space-division 
multiple access (SDMA) could be involved in the cooperative system to take the geographical property of 
these terminals into consideration. In this way, it is possible to allow more source-destination pairs to take 
advantage of cooperative diversity without spending extra time-slots or bandwidth. In the three-year project, 
we would respectively investigate the amplify-and-forward (AF) and decode-and-forward (DF) relaying 
schemes based on SDMA strategy. to enhance the overall performance Under idealized assumption that  
perfect channel state information(CSI) is known, we will optimize the precoder at relay nodes and receiver at 
the destination, and analyze the corresponding performance gain. 
 
Keywords: user cooperation, multiple access interference, zero-forcing, resource allocation 
 
 
 
 6
sources’ symbols over a common channel. In our schemes, each destination overhears the signals transmitted 
by all sources in order to eliminate the inference from the undesired users contained in the signal forwarded 
by the relays. With spending relatively small energy for extra signal reception, the zero-forcing criterion can 
be achieved with arbitrary number of relays. Moreover, the set of relays can be regarded as a virtual antenna 
array, and the system structure from the set of relays to all destinations is similar to the downlink in cellular 
systems where the base station is equipped with multiple antennas. The channel from the set of relays to each 
destination is multi-dimensional in the spatial domain. Utilizing the degrees of freedom provided in the spatial 
domain, the set of precoders and decoders can be optimized in terms of maximal average SNR at sources’ 
symbols subject to satisfying the zero-forcing criterion and total power constraint at relays. However, it is 
intractable to deal with the optimization problem. Thus, the sub-optimal solution is provided in the manuscript. 
Since multiple users share the set relays simultaneously, it is not obvious that how much diversity gain can be 
attained for each source. In order to enhance the spectral efficiency of the conventional cooperative strategies, 
which takes twice time-slots to accomplish cooperation, we proposed two suboptimal sets of precoders at 
relays and decoders at destinations to maximize the average SNR subject to zero forcing criterion and total 
power constraint. Although the procoder vector obtained is convex, the optimization problem has no closed 
form. In order to solve our problem, we adopt two criteria of approximated SNR and lower bound of SNR. 
The approximated SNR is to change total SNR and the lower bound of SNR is to find SNR bounder by 
Rayleigh Quotient. From computer simulations, it shows that, although the approximated SNR or lower bound 
of SNR is not able to achieve full diversity order, it provides significant improvement on the outage capacity. 
 
Multiple Access Schemes and System Model 
 
Fig.1  System Model 
 
Let us consider a mobile ad hoc network where K source users, denoted by S1, S2,…., SK, transmit signals to 
the corresponding destinations. Let the node Dk be the destination of the source Sk. At a time instance, assume 
that there are L users (denoted by R1, R2…., RL) which serve as relays to cooperate with the sources 
simultaneously. The system model is illustrated in Figure 1, where all users are equipped with a simple 
half-duplex transceiver. In this work, we assume that source users transmits over K orthogonal channels using 
time-division-multiple-access (TDMA). It can be easily generalized to any other orthogonal multiple access 
 8
second phase is given by 
                          (3) 
  (4) 
where  is the channel coefficient of the -  link, and  is AWGN at the 
destination. At the destination , the desired source symbol  is estimated by linearly combines the K+1 
received symbols in both phases, i.e., 
  (5) 
where  is the received vector at , and , ….,  is the decoding 
vector applied at . The sets of decoding vectors at all destinations and precoding vectors at all relays can 
be jointly optimized to enhance the system performance. 
 
Jointly Design of the Precoders and Decoders 
In our proposed scheme, the relays forward all sources' symbols over a common channel, which is different 
from most existing cooperative strategies. One challenge of our scheme is that, while estimating the desired 
symbols at each destination, the signals forwarded through the relay links are interfered by other users' 
symbols, which is so-called multiple access interference (MAI).  By exploiting the spatial properties of the 
channel coefficients, the precoders and decoders can be designed to eliminate the interference as well as to 
attain higher diversity order for all source users. Substituting (2) and (4) into (5), we have 
  (6) 
where 
 
is composed of AWGN at all receivers with zero mean and variance 
  (7) 
and  is a  vector composed by the first K entries of . It is worthwhile to note that the 
second term of the estimate in (6) is MAI resulted from the multiuser forwarding at the relays. To eliminate 
the interference from other users, the decoding factors at  (k=1,2,….,K) can be first designate as 
  (8) 
 10
 
  (13) 
                          (14) 
subject to the power constraint 
  (15) 
where V is a  block-diagonal matrix with the l-th diagonal block being . 
The first term in (13) is removed since it is a constant. 
Although the precoder vector obtained in (14) is convex, the optimization problem has no closed form and it 
is rather prohibitive to obtain the optimum solution numerically. To simplify the complexity, we find a 
suboptimal solution by solving 
  (16) 
That is, if we collect the received signals at all destinations, the ratio of total strength of desired signals over 
total strength of noises is maximized. The numerator in (16) can be simplified as , where A is  
 with the -th element being , for k =1, 
2, ...,K and 1,2,...,L, and others being zero. The denominator in (16) can be re-written by 
 
where Q is a block diagonal matrix with the -th block entry being , and U is a  
matrix with the  -th element being  
 
for k =1,2,...,K and 1,2,...,L$, and others being zero. 
With simplification mentioned above, the suboptimal criterion in (16) can be expressed in vector form. On the 
other hand, we usually select the maximum allowable transmit power to achieve the best SNR performance, 
that is, the equality in (15) usually holds. Thus, the optimization problem is re-written as 
 
 12
where 
 
and the precoding factors in b are obtained in (19). 
When the number of source users increases, the transmission protocol seems more efficient since the rate 
reduction factor K/(K+1) is closer to one. However, the resource provided by the relays is shared by more 
sources, which may degrade diversity gain. The optimal ratio between the number of relays to that of the 
sources one interested issue for further investigations. Note that when K = 1, it reduces to the conventional 
cooperation with transmit beamforming strategy. 
In Figs.36, we compare the outage performances of the proposed scheme with direction transmission and 
conventional cooperative transmission in terms of transmit SNR and transmission rate. In the computer 
simulations, all channels suffer Rayleigh fading, the variances of  and  equal to 1, and the 
variance of  equals to 1/23 , for all k, k’ = 1, 2,…., K and l = 1, 2,….,L. The variance of AWGN is 
assumed normalized to one. For the cases with cooperation, assume that the transmission power of each 
source is identical, and the total power at relays are the same as the total power at sources, i.e., , 
 and . For the direct transmission, we set , , for fairness.  
In Fig.3 and Fig.4, the outage probabilities in terms of SNR  in dB are illustrated for a fixed rate at R = 
1 bps/Hz. In Fig.3, the number of source-destination pairs is K = 4. It is observed from the slope of the curves 
that the proposed scheme is not able to attain full diversity gain, unfortunately. However, the proposed 
scheme provides significant coding gain such that it outperform others when transmit SNR is below 14 dB. 
Similar results can be observed in Fig.4, where we compare the outage performances with numbers of sources 
K = 2, or 4 with the relay number fixed at L = 2. When the number of source increases, the outage 
performance of the proposed scheme degrades since the resource allocated to each source user is decreased. 
 
Fig.3  Outage Probabilities in terms of transmit SNR for direct transmission, conventional cooperation and 
the proposed scheme for a cooperative networks with K = 4 sources and L = 2 or 4 relays. 
 
 14
 
Fig.6  Outage Probabilities in terms of transmission rate for direct transmission, conventional cooperation 
and the proposed scheme for a cooperative networks with L = 2 relays and K = 2 or 4 sources. 
 
Conclusion 
In order to enhance the spectral efficiency of the conventional cooperative strategies, which takes twice 
time-slots to accomplish cooperation, we proposed a suboptimal set of precoders at relays and decoders at 
destinations to maximize the average SNR subject to Zero-Forcing criterion and total power constraint. From 
computer simulations, it shows that, although the proposed scheme is not able to achieve full diversity order, 
it provides significant improvement on the outage capacity. 
 
 
References 
[1] J. Yang and S. Roy, “Joint transmitter-receiver optimization for multi-input multi-output systems with 
decision feedback, ” IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory, vol. 40,pp. 1334-1347, Sept.1994 
[2] A. Scaglione, P.Stoica, S. Barbarossa, G. B. Giannakis, and H. Sampath, “Optimal designs for space-time 
linear procoders and decoders,” IEEE Trans. Signal Processing, vol. 50, pp. 1051-1064, May 2002 
[3] C.N. Chuah, D. N. C. Tse, J. M. Kahn, and R. A. Valenzuela, “Capacity scaling in MIMO wireless 
systems under correlated fading,” IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol.48,pp.637-650,2002. 
[4] D. Gesbert, H. Bolcskei, D. A. Gore, and A. J. Paulraj, “Outdoor MIMO wireless channels : models and 
performance prediction,” IEEE Transactions on Communications, vol.50,pp. 1926-1934,2002 
[5] A. Sendonaris, E. Erkip and B. Aazhang, “User Cooperation Diversity– Part I: System Description” and 
“User Cooperation Diversity– Part II: Implementation Aspects and Performance Analysis,” IEEE Trans. 
Commun., vol. 51, no. 11, Nov. 2003 
 16
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
█  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：█已發表 □未發表之文稿 □ 撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限）初步的研究成果已於 IEEE BMSB 2010 研討會中發
表,進一步的理論分析正在撰寫中,將發表至 IEEE 期刊 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
 
In this project, we investigate a SDMA-based cooperative strategy, which 
provide significant performance gain in terms of spectral efficiency. The 
results can be generalized to the next generation broadband wireless 
systems, such as WiMAX or LTE-advanced systems to raise the 
transmission rate in the presence of relay stations.  
 
 
附件二 
 18
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：99 年 9 月 30 日 
計畫編號 NSC 98－2221－E－110－045－ 
計畫名稱 多使用者合作式通訊中使用分址多工的中繼方式之研究 
出國人員
姓名 黃婉甄 
服務機構
及職稱 中山大學通訊工程研究所 
會議時間 99年 3月 24日至 99 年 3 月 26 日 會議地點 上海,中國大陸 
會議名稱 
(中文)  IEEE 國際寬頻多媒體暨廣播研討會 
(英文)  IEEE International Symposium on Broadband Multimedia 
Systems and Broadcasting (BMSB 2010) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)  多使用者合作式網路中之最佳零迫預編碼及解碼器之設計 
(英文)  Optimal Zero-Forcing Design of Precoders and Decoders 
for Multiuser Cooperative Networks 
附件四 
 20
學界及業界的學者專家交流的平台，會議的時間於 3 月 24 日至 3月 26 日假上海國
際會議中心舉辦，會議中心位處浦東陸家嘴金融贸易中心，與東方明珠電視塔為鄰，
隔黃浦江相望的是著名的外灘萬國建築群。會議日程如下圖表所示，在三日會議議
程中，總計有兩場 Keynote Addresses、三場 Plenary、一場 Panel discussion、十
五個 Technical Sessions 的口頭論文報告或壁報論文發表。這次會議很榮幸與來自
韓國的 Dr. Sangil Park 共同擔任首日 session WAM-B (4)的 chair.  
 
 
 
 22
4. Audio, Image and Video processing: Video Coding, Audio Technology and 
Interactive TV,3D and Multi-view Video, Content Protecting and Adaptation  
 
這些 sessions 的主題大多是與數位電視廣播相關，議程中也有三個 plenary,主要在
探討現今各國數位電視廣播的進展、標準的制定及將來的展望，由於會議在中國大
陸舉行，其中一個 plenary 主題便為數位電視廣播在中國大陸的進程，近年來各國
紛紛將無線類比電視停播，大規模地轉換至數位電視廣播，包括台灣亦適逢推廣數
位電視的初期，在此研討會中獲得不少各地發展的經驗及訊息，收穫頗豐；會議期
間，除了聆聽與會學者的論文發表外，亦和各國學者分享彼此的研究經驗，參與這
樣的盛會，除了可以拓展視野，與各領域學者交流，亦可增進台灣在國際競爭上之
能見度。 
 
圖四  Plenary of “Recent and Future Developments of DVB Standards” 
 24
relays. It shows from the simulation results that, compared with the 
conventional cooperative strategy and direct transmission, the proposed 
scheme provides pronounced improvement on the outage capacity. 
 
(2)其他會議照片 
 
圖五  在東方明珠塔上舉辦的大會晚宴 
 
 
圖六 與東海大學溫志宏教授及其母親學生在會場之合影 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期 2010年10月31日
國科會補助計畫
研發成果名稱
發明人
(創作人)
技術說明
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
技術/產品應用範圍
產業別
計畫名稱:
計畫主持人:
計畫編號: 學門領域:
(中文)
(英文)
成果歸屬機構
(中文)
(英文)
多使用者合作式通訊中使用分址多工的中繼方式之研究
黃婉甄
98 -2221-E -110 -045 - 通訊
多使用者合作式網路中之零迫預編碼及解碼器之設計
Zero-Forcing Design of Precoders and Decoders for Multiuser
Cooperative Networks
國立中山大學 黃婉甄,周晨熙
在這個計畫中，我們針對多個來源節點同時分享中繼節點所提供的資源之多使
用者中繼策略；與一般的合作式傳輸不同的是，為了提升頻譜效能，中繼節點
同時在同一頻道前送多個來源節點的訊號。假設中繼節點可獲知完整的通道資
訊，我們提出的零破預編碼器及解碼器可在既定的功率限制下，完全消除多重
來源訊號之間的多重擷取干擾(MAI)，並在各自的接收端達到接近最佳的訓雜比
(SNR)。經由電腦模擬結果，我們可以比較出計畫出提出的系統，相較於傳統合
作式傳輸的策略，可顯著地提升多使用者中繼系統的中斷容量(outage
capacity)。
In this project, we proposed a multiuser relaying strategy for a
cooperative network with multiple sources sharing the radio resource
provided by the cooperative relays simultaneously. Different from the
existing work, the set of relays forwards signals of all source users
over a common channel to enhance spectral efficiency. With full
channel information available at relays, the set of sub-optimal
precoders and decoders was proposed in terms of average SNR of all
users, subject to eliminating the multiple access interference (MAI)
at each destination and satisfying total power constraint among all
relays. It shows from the simulation results that, compared with the
conventional cooperative strategy and direct transmission, the
proposed scheme provides pronounced improvement on the outage
capacity.電信工程業
具備中繼站(relay station)的無線通訊系統，例如WiMAX或LTE；以及提供多重使用
者相互合作機制的無線隨意網路(Wireless Ad Hoc Networks)
近年來WiMAX和LTE越來越受到重視，在業界也正在鋪設此系統之網路，在這兩個高速
無線系統中所制訂的標準中，皆包含個中繼站的架構，此計畫中所提出的預編碼機制
，可採用在兩系統的中繼站中，以提高多使用者擷取的頻譜效率。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
