Motech model PPS-2000 programmable 
voltage-current source. The area for 
luminous measurement was 3 × 3 mm2. 
All the measurements were carried out 
under atmosphere and room 
temperature. 
 
四、重要研究成果與討論： 
Fig. 2 showed the current 
density-driving voltage (J-V) 
characteristics of the devices with 
various transparent cathodes. It is 
evident that at the same forward bias, 
the electric current in the device with 
LiF and Al cathode is the greatest than 
the others. It implies that the electron 
injection property in the device with LiF 
and Al cathode is more superior than 
that with Sm and Li cathodes. Fig. 3 
exhibited the luminance from cathode vs. 
current density (L-J) characteristics of 
flexible OLEDs. We observed the 
consistence that the highest luminance 
phenomenon occurred in the device with 
the LiF and Al cathode. It is suggested 
that good electron injection property in 
the device with LiF and Al cathode, an 
enhanced recombination between the 
electrons and holes in EML could be 
obtained, yielding a superior luminous 
property from cathode. 
Such a phenomenon implies that 
the created excitons under different 
operating currents could be effectively 
confined within a short range at the 
junction of TDAF : Rubrence / undoped 
TDAF (please see Fig. 4). 
 
五、結論： 
In conclusion, we have fabricated 
flexible OLEDs using different model. 
We have found that the work function of 
different OLEDs model plays an 
important role in electron injection. 
Evidence shows that since LiF and Al 
cathode possesses a lower work function, 
it conducts a more effective electron 
injection from cathode, providing a 
more brightness. Besides, a proper 
thickness of LiF and Al cathode 
resulting in a superior optoelectronic 
performance of flexible OLEDs was 
consistently obtained. 
 
六、參考文獻： 
[1] Z. Zhilin, J. Xueyin, and X. 
Shaohong, “Energy transfer and 
white emitting organic thin film 
electroluminescence”, Thin Solid 
Films, vol. 363, pp. 61-63, 2000.  
[2] G. Cheng, F. Li, Y. Duan, J. Feng, S. 
Liu, S. Qiu, D. Lin, Y. Ma, and S.T. 
Lee, “White organic light-emitting 
devices using a phosphorescent 
sensitizer”, Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 82, 
pp. 4224-4226, 2003. 
[3] L.S. Hung, C.W. Tang, M.G. Mason, 
P. Raychaudhuri, and J. Madathil, 
“Application of an ultrathin LiF/Al 
bilayer in organic surface-emitting 
diodes”, Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 78, pp. 
544-546, 2001. 
[4] H. Riel, S. Karg, T. Beierlein, B. 
Ruhstaller, and W. Rie, 
“Phosphorescent top-emitting 
