 2
?????????????????????? 
 
?????????????????? (2/2) 
Study of the preparation of composite hollow fiber membrane and separation performance 
(2/2) 
????: NSC 94-2216-E-253-001 
????:94 ?8 ?1 ??95 ?7 ?31 ? 
 
???: ?????? ??????????? 
ABSTRACT  
For the purpose of separating aqueous alcohol by the use of pervaporation technique, a 
composite membrane of chitosan (CT) dip-coated cellulose acetate (CA) hollow fiber membranes, 
CT-d-CA, were investigated. The effects of air gap distance in the spinning of CA hollow fiber 
membranes, chitosan concentration and sorts of aqueous alcohol solutions on the pervaporation 
performances were studied. Compared with unmodified CA hollow fiber membrane, the CT-d-CA 
composite hollow fiber membrane effectively increases the permselectivity of water. The thickness 
of coating layer increases with increasing chitosan concentration. As the concentration of chitosan 
solution increased, the permeation rate decreased and the concentration of water in the permeate 
increased. In addition, the effects of feed composition and feed solution temperature on the 
pervaporation performances were also investigated. The permeation rate and water content in 
permeate at 25? for a 90wt% aqueous isopropanol solution through the CT-d-CA composite 
hollow fiber membrane with a 5 cm air gap distance spun, 2 wt% chitosan dip-coated system were 
169.5 g/m2 h and 98.9wt%, respectively. 
 
Keywords: Composite hollow fiber membrane, Cellulose acetate, Pervaporation, Dip-coated  
 
???? 
?????????????cellulose acetate, CA???????/???????Dry/Wet 
spinning process????????????????????????????(dip-coating)
??? Chitosan????? CA???????????? chitosan/CA?????????
??????????? chitosan ???? chitosan/CA ?????????????
?pervaporation????????????????????????? CA????????
chitosan/ CA???????????????????? chitosan???????????
????????????????????????????????????????
???????????????????????????????????? 5 ???
?????? CA??????? 2 wt% chitosan????? 25? ??? 90wt% isopropanol
?????????????????????????? 169.5 g/m2 h ? 98.9wt%? 
??????????????????????????? 
 4
feed composition and feed solution temperature on pervaporation performances was also 
investigated. 
 
EXPERIMENTAL 
Materials 
Cellulose acetate (molecular weight 50000 with acetyl content 39.8mol%), used as the 
composite hollow fiber supporting matrix in this study, was purchased from Aldrich Co. The 
dip-coated polymer solution, chitosan, with 85% N-deacetylation degree was supplied from Sigma 
Co. The solvent, N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF) and acetic acid were of reagent grade and used 
without further purification. Glutaraldehyde was used as crosslinking agent in this study. 
 
Spinning of CA hollow fiber 
CA polymer and solvent (DMF) were mixed in a flask under agitation to form a 25wt% 
homogenous CA polymer solution and then was storage at least one day. The homogenous polymer 
solution was then poured into the dope tank of spinning frame and kept overnight. 
CA hollow fiber membranes were fabricated by a dry/wet spinning process. The spinning dope 
was extruded under 1 atm pressure through a spinneret. The dimensions of this spinneret were 0.6 
and 0.4 mm for outer diameter (OD) and inner diameter (ID), respectively. The bore liquid was 
introduced by metering pump. The degassed homogenous polymer solution and bore liquid were 
extruded through the spinneret die to form a nascent hollow fiber membrane and then passed 
through an air gap from 5~75cm before entering into the coagulation bath of water. There were no 
external elongation stresses except gravity was applied to the nascent hollow fiber membranes. The 
hollow fiber was washed thoroughly with water to remove the residual solvent for 2 h, and then was 
kept in 50wt% aqueous glycerin solution to prevent the collapse of the porous structure for 3 days. 
Table I reveals the detailed process parameters and spinning conditions. 
 
Fabrication of CT-d-CA composite hollow fiber membrane 
CT-d-CA composite hollow fiber membranes were formed by dip-coated the chitosan solution 
on the outer surface of CA hollow fiber. Chitosan solution was prepared by dissolving chitosan 
flakes into 2 wt% aqueous acetic acid solution to form 1.5~2.5 wt% chitosan solution. The solution 
was filtered to remove any undissolvable solids or impurities and allowed to stand for about half a 
day to remove the air bubbles. Then they were dip-coated onto CA hollow fiber membrane outer 
surface and dried at 80? for 40 min. After drying, CT-d-CA composite hollow fiber membranes 
dip into 0.12 wt% aqueous glutaraldehyde solution at 30?. Then the CT-d-CA composite hollow 
fiber membranes were cured at 80?. 
 
SEM observation of hollow fibers membrane 
The outer surface morphologies of CA hollow fiber membranes and cross-section 
morphologies of CT-d-CA composite hollow fiber membranes were observed with a scanning 
electron microscopy (SEM, Hitachi Model S4700). The fiber samples were immersed in liquid 
nitrogen to fracture and then sputtered with Pt. 
 
Module fabrication and pervaporation tests 
The hollow fiber module for pervaporation test is consisted of 5 fibers. The fiber bundles were 
plotted in 5-min rapid solidified epoxy resin binder. The effectively length of every hollow fiber for 
pervaporation was 8cm. 
The procedure and the apparatus used in the pervaporation experiments were the same as 
described in previous work 28. The feed solution was pumped into the shell side of the module and 
 6
increase of the coating layer thickness. Figure 4 reveals the outer layer SEM image of CT-d-CA 
composite hollow fiber membranes that were dip-coated by using various concentration of chitosan. 
It shows that the thickness of coating layer increases with increasing the chitosan concentration. 
The outer surface defects of CA hollow fiber membrane can be avoided as increasing the thickness 
of coating layer. Thus, the permeation rate decreases as the coating solution concentration increases. 
These observations correspond very well with the results indicated in Figure 3. Furthermore, 
compared with the uncoated CA hollow fiber membrane (Figure 1), the CT-d-CA composite hollow 
fiber membrane effectively improved the water selectivity. 
  
Pervaporation performances of various aqueous alcohol solutions 
The performances of 90wt% aqueous alcohol mixtures through the CT-d-CA composite hollow 
fiber membrane by pervaporation are shown in Table II. It can be seen from Table II that the 
permeation rate of aqueous ethanol solution is higher than that of the aqueous iso-propanol solution. 
Additionally, the water content in permeate of the former is lower than that of the latter. These 
phenomena might be due to the fact that molar volume of ethanol is smaller than that of the 
iso-propanol. Furthermore, the interaction between the water molecules and the CT-d-CA composite 
hollow fiber membranes is higher than that of the alcohol, resulting from the higher hydrophilicity 
of CA. Consequently, the solubility of alcohols for the CT-d-CA composite hollow fiber membrane 
is lower than that of the water?Meanwhile the diffusivity of water across the membrane is much 
higher than that of the alcohols.  
 
Effect of feed composition on pervaporation performances 
The effect of feed aqueous iso-propanol solution composition on the pervaporation 
performances of the CT-d-CA composite hollow fiber membranes is shown in Figure 5. It shows 
that the permeation rate increases and the water content in permeate decreases with decreasing the 
feed iso-propanol concentration. These phenomena might be due to the plasticizing effect of water 
on the hydrophilic CT-d-CA composite hollow fiber membranes. Generally, hydrophilic membranes 
have more polar groups and a strong interaction with water through hydrogen bonding or 
ion-dipoles and thereby the selectivity of the membrane to water can be enhanced. When the water 
concentration in the feed solution is higher, the amorphous regions of the CT-d-CA composite 
hollow fiber membranes are more swollen. Hence, the polymer chain become more flexible and 
decreased the energy required for diffusive transport through the CT-d-CA composite hollow fiber 
membranes, resulting in permeation rate increased while water content in permeate decreased.  
 
Effect of feed solution temperature on pervaporation performance 
The effect of feed solution temperature on the pervaporation performance of 90wt% aqueous 
iso-propanol solution through the CT-d-CA composite hollow fiber membrane is shown in Figure 6. 
It shows that the permeation rate increases and the water content in permeate decreases with the 
feed solution temperature increases These phenomena might be due to the fact that an increase in 
the swelling of the CT-d-CA composite hollow fiber membrane matrix at higher temperature results 
in an increase in the free volume, frequency and amplitude of the polymer chain motions. Thus, the 
permeation of the permeating molecules through the CT-d-CA composite hollow fiber membrane 
becomes easier, resulting in an increase in the total permeation rate. This facilitates the transport of 
iso-propanol molecules along with water, thereby reduces the water content in permeate. 
 
CONCLUSION 
Pervaporation of alcohol-water mixtures through CT-d-CA composite hollow fiber membranes 
were investigated in this article. Compared with unmodified CA hollow fiber membrane, the 
CT-d-CA composite hollow fiber membrane effectively increases the permselectivity of water. The 
optimum results for permeation rate and water content in permeate for a 90wt% aqueous 
iso-propanol solution are 169.5 g/m2 h and 98.9wt%, respectively. The thickness of coating layer 
 8
 
TABLE ? Process parameters and spinning conditions 
Process parameters /Spinning conditions Value 
Spinning solution CA/DMF 
Polymer concentration (by weight) 25 wt% 
Spinning temperature (?) Ambient temperature 
Spinneret OD/ID 0.6mm/0.4mm 
Spinning solution pressure 1 atm 
Bore liquid H2O 
Air gap distance 5~75 cm 
External coagulant H2O 
External coagulation bath temperature (?) Ambient temperature 
Post-treatment process Washed thoroughly with water for 2 h
Keep in 50wt% aqueous glycerin 
solution for 3 days 
 
TABLE II The comparison of feed solution on the pervaporation performances 
through CT-d-CA composite hollow fiber membranes.  
Feed solution 90 wt% Ethanol 90 wt% Isopropanol 
Permeation rate  
(g/m2 h) 
234.0 169.5 Separation 
performances Water content in 
permeate (wt%) 
80.1 98.9 
 
 
 10
1.5 2.0 2.5
0
100
200
300
400
500
 
Chitosan concentration (wt%)
Pe
rm
ea
tio
n 
ra
te
 (g
/m
2 h
)
50
60
70
80
90
100
W
at
er
 c
on
te
nt
 in
 p
er
m
ea
te
 (w
t%
)
 
Figure 3 Effect of chitosan concentration on the pervaporeation performances of CT-d-CA 
composite hollow fiber membrane, Feed solution: 90 wt% aqueous ethanol solution at 25
?. 
 
  
(A) (B) 
 
 
(C)  
Figure 4 Effect of chitosan concentration on the morphologies of CT-d-CA composite hollow fiber 
membranes, Chitosan concentration: (A) 1.5wt%, (B) 2 wt%, and (C) 2.5 wt%. 
 
