 2
chooses the correct ones to proceed. 
Ezpeleta et al proposed a class of PN [9] called Systems of Simple Sequential Processes with 
Resources (S3PR) [13].  Their idea is to compute all bad siphons of the given model and find the 
maximum number of tokens at each idle state followed by a control policy of adding arcs and nodes 
with tokens.  Most recent deadlock control approaches [10-12] extend Ezpeleta’s work.   
 A control place is added to every strict minimal siphon (SMS) such that liveness can be 
enforced. The method is simple and guarantees a success. However, too many control places and 
arcs have to be added, leading to a much more complex Petri net than the originally built one. In 
fact, the number of places added is equal to the number of SMS in the target net and the number of 
arcs added is generally much larger than that of places added, particularly for large-scale Petri nets. 
 Partially enlightened by the work in [5], Iordache et al. [1] proposed an iterative control policy 
of liveness enforcement for Petri nets. It is applicable to an arbitrary Petri net structure.  However, 
a hard nut remains to crack that this method will not work for complex or large Petri net structures. 
The real cause behind this is simple since there are usually too many SMS in a large-size Petri net. 
At every iterative step, control places have to be added. Hence, the number of SMS may likely 
spiral up, which finally becomes unmanageable as the iterations proceed. 
Deadlock prevention policies developed in [1] and [5] are generally called iterative control 
methods. The basis of the control techniques is simple. Find all SMS in the target Petri net in each 
iteration step and then add a control place. Repeat this step until no new SMS can be emptied. We 
can, at the first iteration step, add six additional control places to this net model. New SMS will be 
generated due to these additional control places. Then has 96 (38+52+6) new SMS but only 12 (6 
old+6 new) elementary siphons. The use of the iterative methods for deadlock prevention in [1] and 
[5] becomes very difficult and complex if not unmanageable for this moderate-size model. 
To prevent deadlocks in a Petri net, the recent work of Huang et al. [10] has made some efforts 
on controlling fewer SMS, where mixed integer programming (MIP) technique is employed to find 
a maximal siphon under a given marking. Then all SMS which may possibly be emptied can be 
obtained from the maximal siphon [10]. In fact, the SMS obtained by MIP method exclude those 
that can never be emptied. However, much simpler Petri net controllers with liveness can be 
expected if the concept of elementary siphons is used in [10]. 
[14] explores ways to minimize the new additions of places while achieving the same control 
purpose. It proposes for the first time the concept of elementary siphons that are a special class of 
siphons. The set of elementary siphons in a Petri net is generally a proper subset of the set of all 
SMS. Its smaller cardinality becomes evident in large Petri net models. They prove that by adding a 
control place for each elementary siphon by the method developed in [13] to make sure that it is 
marked, which does not generate new SMS due to the addition of control places. Compared with 
the existing methods, the new method requires a much smaller number of control places and, 
therefore, is suitable for large-scale Petri nets. An FMS example was used to illustrate the proposed 
concepts and policy, and show the significant advantage over the previous methods.  Next, add a 
control place for each elementary siphon to guarantee that all the elementary siphons be always 
marked. 
However, their method suffers from the expensive computation of siphons since the number of 
siphons is theoretically exponential w.r.t the number of place elements in it [4-5].  Hence their 
prevention algorithm is an exponential time one.  In addition, they have to take extra efforts to 
extract elementary siphons from all SMS. Also the behavior of the modeled system is restricted (i.e., 
more reachable states are forbidden) when both the number of tokens in the top and bottom part of 
the Petri net model are small.  This arises because some control arcs always connect to the output 
transition of the initial states; thereby restricting the entry of raw materials into the system. 
 We propose to relieve this problem by moving the control arcs away from the above entry to 
be closer to the siphon being controlled (for the cases where the technique does not work well) and 
eliminating the need to find redundant SMS. We propose to develop a polynomial algorithm for 
deadlock prevention.  We propose a hybrid approach taking advantages of both approaches while 
 4
severely degraded. We have developed the theory to improve it and currently is preparing a journal 
paper.  The idea is that if the union of I-subnets of siphons are not strongly connected, then no new 
siphons can be generated from the union.  We attempt to separate siphons into regions.  The 
control arcs out from each control place of siphons in the same region end at output transitions of 
the same nonresource (not necessary idle) places.  This allows more raw materials to be in the 
system and improves the throughput. 
 
四、參考文獻 
 
[1] M. V. Iordache, J. O. Moody, and P. J. Antsaklis, “A method for the synthesis liveness enforcing supervisors in Petri nets,” in Proc. Amer. Control 
Conf., 2001, pp. 4943–4948. 
[2] M. D. Jeng, X. L. Xie, and Y. S. Huang, “Manufacturing modeling using process nets with resources,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot. Automat., 
2001, pp. 2185–2190. 
[3] K. Lautenbach and H. Ridder, “The Linear Algebra of Deadlock Avoidance-A Petri Net Approach,” Univ. Koblenz, Res. Rep. Insti. Comput.Sci., 
Koblenz, Germany, 1996. 
[4] J. Ezpeleta, J. M. Couvreur, and M. Silva, “A new technique for finding a generating family of siphons, traps, and st-components: Application to 
colored Petri nets,” in Advances in Peti Nets 1993, G. Rozenberg, Ed. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1993, vol. 674, Lecture Notes on Computer 
Science, pp. 126–147. 
[5] K. Lautenbach, “Linear algebraic calculation of deadlocks and traps,” in  Concurrency and Nets, V. Genrich and Rozenberg, Eds. New York: 
Springer-Verlag, 1987, pp. 315–336. 
[6] K. Barkaoui and I. B. Abdallah, “An efficient deadlock avoidance control policy in FMS using structural analysis of Petri nets,” in Proc. IEEE Int. 
Conf. System, Man, Cybernetics, San Antonio, TX, 1994, pp. 525–530. 
[7] F. Chu and X. L. Xie, “Deadlock analysis of Petri nets using siphons and mathematical programming,” IEEE Trans. Robot. Automat., vol. 13, pp. 
793–840, Dec. 1997. 
[8] M. D. Jeng and X. L. Xie, “Analysis modularly composed nets by siphons,” IEEE Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern. A, vol. 29, pp. 399–406, Mar. 1999. 
[9] T. Murata, “Petri Nets: Properties, analysis, and applications,” Proc.IEEE, vol. 77, pp. 541–580, Dec. 1989. 
[10] X. L. Xie and M. D. Jeng, “ERCN-merged nets and their analysis using siphons,” IEEE Trans. Robot. Automat., vol. 15, pp. 692–703, 1999. 
[11] Y. S. Huang, M. Jeng, X. L. Xie, and S. L. Chung, “A deadlock prevention policy for flexible manufacturing systems using siphons,” in Proc. 
IEEE Int. Conf. Robotics Automation, Seoul, Korea, 2001, pp. 541–546. 
[12] K. Barkaoui and I. B. Abdallah, “A deadlock prevention method for a class of FMS,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Systems, Man, Cybernetics, 1995, 
pp. 4119–4124. 
[13] J. Ezpeleta, J. M. Colom, and J. Martinez, “A petri net based deadlock prevention policy for flexible manufacturing systems,” IEEE Trans. Robot. 
Automat., vol. 11, pp. 173–184, Apr. 1995. 
[14] ZhiWu Li and MengChu Zhou, “Elementary Siphons of Petri Nets and Their Application to Deadlock Prevention in Flexible Manufacturing 
Systems,” IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, Part A: Systems and Humans, 34(1), 2004, pp. 38-51. 
[15] Daniel Yuh Chao, “A Graphic-Algebraic Computation of Elementary Siphons of BS3PR,” to appear in Journal of Information Science and 
Engineering. 
[16] Daniel Yuh Chao, “A Graphic-Algebraic Computation of Elementary Siphons and Characteristic T-Vectors,” submitted to IEEE Trans. Robot. 
Automat 
[17] Daniel Yuh Chao, “A Graphic-Algebraic Computation of Elementary Siphons of BS3PR,” to appear in Journal of Information Science and 
Engineering. 
[18] Daniel Yuh Chao,  “Deadlock Control for Systems of Simple Sequential Processes with General Resources Requirement (S3PGR2),”. 
[19] Daniel Yuh Chao,  “Supervisory Control of S3PGR2 Based on Max*-Controlled and Elementary Siphons,” submitted to IEEE Trans. Robot. 
Automat. 
 
附件：封面格式 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※
※                        ※ 
※           僵局預防和虹吸管計算的提升              ※ 
※                                            ※    
※                                                ※ 
※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※ 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫  □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 94-2212-E-004-001 
