I中文摘要：
多重抗藥性是因為腫瘤細胞暴露於細胞毒性的藥物下所發展出來的細胞特性，但這性
質在臨床上影響治療計畫的成功率。近年對這問題的解決方法之一是抑制細胞膜上的
P-glycoprotein(P-gp)，因此許多研究都朝向開發可以抑制P-gp 的化療藥物。本研究以高分
子設計與合成及具多重抗藥性乳癌細胞株的毒殺性質為研究主軸，共計合成2種高分子藥物
載體：mPEG-PCL-g-2-hydroxyethyl cellulose及mPEG-PCL-mPEG。合成高分子的鑑定方法
包含核磁共振光譜儀，紅外線光譜儀，掃描式熱分析儀。在細胞評估方法中，本計畫分別
利用野生種與抗藥性人類乳癌細胞株測試搭載小紅莓(doxorubicin)的微胞與單純小紅莓對
毒殺腫瘤細胞的效果。結果顯示搭載藥物的微胞對兩細胞株的毒性都較單純藥物低，但透
過流式細胞儀與共軛焦顯微鏡觀察看到抗藥性細胞累積小紅莓的濃度較高，這代表載體系
統可以透過緩釋讓細胞吞噬較多藥物，因此我們正嘗試建立動物模型來進一步確認本計畫
的研究成果。
關鍵詞：
多重抗藥性，乳癌細胞，高分子微胞，聚乙二醇，纖維素
英文摘要：
Multidrug resistance is a cellular property that is developed in tumor cells exposed to
cytotoxic agents. However, this resistance reduces the efficacy of the clinical tumor therapy. Over
the last two decades, there was a solution developed to these clinical problems: to inhibit
P-glycoprotein over-expressed on the membranes of tumor cells that pump out therapeutic agents.
The present project has designed and synthesized two polymer systems as drug carriers to target
anti-tumor drug, doxorubicin (dox) to wild-type and multidrug resistant human breast cancer cells
(MCF-7/wt and adr). The synthesized polymers were characterized by NMR, FTIR, DSC,
respectively. In the cellular assays, the cytotoxicity of dox-loaded micelles and free dox were
tested in MCF-7/wt and MCF-7/adr. The Dox-loaded mPEG-PCL-g-cellulose micelles showed
reduced cytotoxicity compared to free Dox in MCF-7/wt and MCF-7/adr. In addition to
cellulose-based micells, the cytotoxicity of DOX-loaded mPEG-PCL-mPEG micelles to
MCF-7/wt and MCF-7/adr were found to be lower than that of free DOX. The more amounts of
DOX and faster uptake accumulated into the drug resistant cells from DOX-loaded micelles
suggest a potential application in cancer chemotherapy.
Keywords:
multidrug resistance, breast cancer cell, polymeric micelles, polyethylene glycol, cellulose
21,4-dioxane, dichloromethane (DCM), diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran (THF) and other chemicals
were reagent grade and used without further purification. For cell culture experiments, human
breast cancer cell lines (MCF-7/wild type) and MCF-7/adr cells line were kindly provided by Dr.
Y. H. Chen of School of Pharmacy, College of Medicine National Taiwan University.
3-(4,5-Dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT) was purchased from
Sigma-Aldrich Chem. Co. Inc., USA. Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium (DMEM) and
antibiotic antimycotic were purchased from GIBCO. The fetal bovine serum (FBS) was obtained
from HyClone.
Synthesis of mPEG-PCL-g-2-Hydroxyethyl Cellulose
The synthesis procedures are shown in the Scheme 1. mPEG-PCL diblock copolymer,
reported elsewhere6 was synthesized by ring opening polymerization of -caprolactone in the
presence of mPEG as a macro initiator with SnOct as catalyst at 130 oC for 24 h. Carboxylic acid
terminated mPEG-PCL was prepared according to the procedure which was published by Bae et
al.[7-10] mPEG-PCL-g-HEC copolymer was synthesized according to the previous procedures.
Generally, carboxylic acid terminated mPEG-PCL was dissolved in THF and stirred at room
temperature for 30 min. Then N,N-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCC) and 4-dimethylamino
pyridine (DMAP) were added sequentially. The 2-hydroxyethyl cellulose was dissolved in
DMSO and introduced to the reaction mixture. The resulting mixture was stirred for 12 h at room
temperature under nitrogen atmosphere. The THF was removed in a rotary vacuum evaporator.
The mixture was dialyzed to remove DMSO then extracted with dichloromethane to eliminate
unreacted mPEG-PCL. The product was frozen and lyophilized to give the solid product.
Synthesis of mPEG-PCL-mPEG Triblock Copolymers
The synthesis procedures are shown in the scheme 2. mPEG-PCL diblock copolymer,
reported elsewhere [11-13] was synthesized by ring opening polymerization of ε-caprolactone in
the presence of mPEG as a macro initiator with SnOct as catalyst at 130oC for 4 h. To synthesize
triblock copolymers, the hydroxyl group of mPEG was modified to a carboxylic acid and was
connected with mPEG-PCL-OH block copolymers. mPEG was dissolved in dry 1,4-Dioxane then
an excess of succinic anhydride and DMAP were added to this solution. The resulting solution
was stirred at room temperature for 24 h. The solution was precipitated by diethyl ether: hexane.
The white powder was dried in vacuum for 24 h. The dried material was dissolved in DCM and
stirred at room temperature for 30 min. Then DCC and DMAP were added sequentially. The
mPEG-PCL-OH was dissolved in DCM and introduced to the reaction mixture. The resulting
mixture was stirred for 24 h at room temperature under nitrogen atmosphere. The product was
obtained by precipitation in diethyl ether: hexane. The powder was dialyzed against water to
remove un-reacted mPEG-COOH and the product was frozen and lyophilized to delivery white
solid product.
Physical/Chemical Characterizations of Synthesized Block Copolymers
4results were also obtained with the hydroxyethyl starch, as demonstrated by Besheer and
coworkers.[15] These results were confirmed by tapping mode AMF measurement; the results are
shown in Table I. It was agreed with the DLS measurement, the size of micelles increased
slightly to Dox loaded micelles. AFM imagines (not shown here) revealed that the most of
particles from all the samples were spheres and regular with 321.9 nm-340.7 nm diameters. The
smaller difference could be attributed to the AFM measurements in the dried state of samples.
Synthesis and characterizations of mPEG-PCL-mPEG Triblock Copolymers
The amphiphilic triblock copolymers consisting of hydrophilic mPEG segments and
hydrophobic PCL segment were synthesized by coupling reaction using DCC/DMAP in DCM.
The procedure was shown in scheme 2. Since mPEG contains a methoxy group and the other end
a hydroxyl group, first the hydroxyl group of mPEG was first converted to a carboxylic acid
group. The carboxylic terminated mPEG was used in the coupling reaction with mPEG-PCL-OH
(MnPCL = 3600, 8000 and 22000) in the presence of DCC and DMAP. The coupling reaction was
carried out in DCM for 24 h under nitrogen; followed by a work up reaction to deliver triblock
copolymers. The obtained copolymers were named as EC36E, EC80E and EC220E (Table II). The
critical micelle concentration (CMC) of triblock copolymers with different PCL compositions
were determined by fluorescence technique using DPH as a probe. The CMC values of EC36E,
EC80E, and EC220E are 5.6×10-3, 1.2×10-3, and 5.1×10-4 mg/mL, respectively. The results showed
that lower CMC values are observed when the hydrophobic segments become longer. It indicated
that the length of hydrophobic segment plays an important role on the CMC values. This point
out that a block copolymer with a shorter PLC segment tended to increase the CMC value in
aqueous media, e.g., 5.6×10-3 mg/mL for EC36E vs 5.1×10-4 mg/mL for EC220E .
CH2 CH2 OH3CO
m
H
OC
O
n H3CO CH2 CH2O C CH2 CH2 CH2 CH2 CH2O
O
m n
H+
SnOct
poly( ethylene glycol ) mPEG-PCL-caprolactone
O OO
succinic anhydride
DMAP/TEA
1,4-dioxane
O CH2 CH2 OH3C C CH2 CH2 CH2 CH2 CH2 O
O
m n
C CH2
O
mPEG-PCL-RCOOH
O
HO
O
OX
OX
OX O O
OX
OX
OX
H
X=H or
(CH2CH2O)nHDCC, DMAP
O
HO
O
O
OX
OX O O
OX
OX
OX
H
O
CH2 CH2 O
H3C
C
CH2
CH2 CH2 CH2 CH2 O
O
m
n
C CH2
H2C
C
O
O
CH2 COOH
DMSO
6In-vitro cytotoxicity test of mPEG-PCL-g-HEC
Figure 1 shows the viability (%) of cells treated with Dox-loaded micelles (polymer) and free
Dox against MCF-7 and MCF-7/adr cell lines, respectively and the concentration of Dox in a
range of 0.01–10 μg/mL. These results indicated that free Dox was effective to kill MCF-7 cells
in the concentration range of 0.5 -10 μg/mL. In contrary, the viability of MCF-7 cells treated with
Dox-loaded micelles was not as effective as that of free Dox; 20 % cells remained even at a
concentration above 1 μg/mL. It confirms that free Dox was more toxicity than Dox loaded
micelles. The IC50 of Dox loaded-micelles was higher than free Dox in both case of MCF-7 and
MCF-7/adr. The IC50 value of MCF-7/Adr cells was much higher than that for MCF-7 cells at the
same drug treatment.
0.0
10.0
20.0
30.0
40.0
50.0
60.0
70.0
80.0
90.0
100.0
control 0.01 0.1 0.5 1 10
Dox Concentration (μg/ml)
MCF-7 free Dox
MCF-7 Dox-loaded micelle
MCF-7/adr free Dox
MCF-7/adr Dox-loaded micelle
Figure 1. Cytotoxicity study of free Dox and Dox-loaded mPEG-PCL-g-HEC micelles in human
MCF-7 breast cancer cells and MCF-7/Adriamycin-drug resistant cells after incubation for 5
days.
Cellular uptake of Dox for mPEG-PCL-g-HEC micelles
The cellular uptake of DOX, the distribution of DOX by MCF-7/WT and MCF-7/ADR cells
were observed by confocal microscopy. Since DOX emits red fluorescence, its distribution in the
cells can be easily observed under CLSM. In contrast with free DOX-treated MCF-7/wt, more
intense DOX fluorescence was observed in the cytoplasm after 24 hours when micelles
treated-MCF-7/ADR. Fig. 2 shows the histogram of cell-associated DOX fluorescence for
MCF-7ADR and MCF-7/WT cells. These results are in agreement with flow cytometry results
(Fig. 3)
8Figure 4. In- vitro cytotoxicity of free DOX and DOX-loaded EC220E micelles in human MCF-7
and MCF-7/adr breast cancer cells
Cellular uptake of DOX-loaded mPEG-PCL-mPEG micelles
Figure 5 shows glow cytometric histograms of cellular uptake of MCF-7 and MCF-7/adr
cells incubated with free DOX and DOX-loaded micelles. In order to visualize the cellular uptake
of DOX, the internalization of DOX-loaded micelles and free DOX into the drug sensitive
MCF-7 and drug resistant MCF-7/adr cells were observed by confocal microscopy. In order to
visualize the cellular uptake of DOX, the internalization of DOX-loaded micelles and free DOX
into the drug sensitive MCF-7 and drug resistant MCF-7/adr cells were observed by confocal
microscopy (Fig. 6).
Figure 5. Flow cytometry histogram profile of MCF-7 (a) and MCF-7/adr (b) cells that were
incubated with free DOX and DOX-loaded EC220E micelles (DOX concentration 10 µg/mL).
10
Conclusions:
This project has developed two polymer systems as drug carriers of anti-tumor drug,
doxorubicin. The following conclusions are therefore devidied intwo two parts: In the first part,
the water-soluble and biodegradable copolymer of mPEG-PCL-g-HEC was synthesized for
anticancer drug delivery system.The nanoparticle prepared by dissolving the copolymer in
aqueous solution was studied by DLS and AFM that particle sizes were found in a range of 197.4
to 340.7 nm. This copolymer contained hydrophobic PCL segments could encapsulate the Dox
inside the micelles cores.The in-vitro release profiles show that Dox remained around 50% and
slowly release after 7 days. The cytotoxicity of Dox loaded micelles showed the lower
cytotoxicity to both MCF-7 and MCF-7/Adr cells than the free Dox.
In the synthesis and characterizations of mPEG-PCL-mPEG, a series of biodegradable triblock
copolymers with various PCL block were synthesized. The structures of copolymers were
confirmed by 1HNMR, FT-IR, GPC, DSC. The copolymers formed nanosized micellar showed
the particle sizes to be in a range of 40 to 92 nm. These copolymers contained hydrophobic PCL
segments which could encapsulate the DOX inside the micelles cores. The in-vitro drug release
profiles from the micelles were pH dependent. Furthermore, the cytotoxicity of DOX-loaded
micelles showed its lower cytotoxicity to MCF-7 and MCF-7/adr cells than that of the free DOX.
The internalization of DOX into cells indicated that the DOX-loaded micelles entered the cells
through endocytosis process.
It is evident that carrier system owes better property of cellular accumulation of doxorubicin
in-vitro. Based on this progress, we are developing nude mice model in which breast cancer are
grown in the mammary pads of the mice. Hopefully we can find more advantages of carrier
systems over the free-drug administration when treating breast cancer.
References:
1. X.Shuai, T.Merdan, F.Unger , M.W ittmar, and T.Kissel, Macromolecules 36, 5751 (2003).
2. S.Y .Kim and Y.M.Lee, Biomaterials 22, 1697 (2001).
3. X.Shuai, T.Merdan, A.K.Schaper , F.Xi, and T.Kissel, Bioconjugate Chem. 15, 441 (2004).
4. U.Edlund and A.C.Albertsson, Adv. Polym. Sci. 157, 67 (2002).
5. A.K.Bledzki and J.Gassan, Prog. Polym. Sci. 24, 221 (1999).
6. M.F .Hsieh, T.Y .Lin, R.J.Gau, H.T .Chang, Y.L.Lo, and C.H. Lai, J. Chin. Inst. Chem.
Engrs. 36, 1 (2005).
7. Y.H.Bae, K.M.Huh, Y.Kim, and K.P ark, J. Control. Release 64, 3 (2000).
8. K.Akio, M.Kazuhiro, C.Eugene, K.Hikaru, and I.Y oshito, Biomaterials 13, 113 (1992).
9. M.Shirui, S.Xintao, U.Florian, W.Matthias, X.Xiulan, and K.Thomas, Biomaterials 26, 6343
(2005).
10. H.Y u, X.Chen, T.Lu, J.Sun, H.T ian, J.Hu, Y.W ang, P.Zhang, and X.Jing,
Biomacromolecules 8, 1425 (2007).
11. Yoo H S and Park T G 2004 J. Control. Release. 96 273–83
12
出席國際學術會議心得報告
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-033-049-
計畫名稱 奈米高分子顆粒的製備與藥物釋放行為(II):對逆轉乳癌細胞株多重抗藥性之評估
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
謝明發中原大學 生物醫學工程系 助理教授
會議時間地點 2008年4月22日~2008年4月25日 Beijing, China
會議名稱 IFMBE 7th Asian-Pacific Conference on Medical and Biological Engineering (APCMBE 2008)
發表論文題目
Preparation of Nanoparticle of Methoxy Poly(ethylene glycol)/Poly
(-caprolactone)/methoxy Poly(ethylene glycol) Triblock Copolymer for Drug
Delivery Applications
一、參加會議經過
此次參加在中國北京主辦之國際醫學工程與生物工程亞太年會，議程為期四天，會議
主辦單位是中國生物醫學工程學會 (Chinese Society of Biomedical Engineering，
CSBME)，協辦為國際醫學工程與生物工程聯盟，大會主席為 CSBME 的主席劉德培
博士(Dr. Depei Liu)。會議場地位在首都北京的近郊，九華山莊飯店。會議主席是中國
科學院北京聯合醫學院的教授，研究方向為基因調控，表現與基因治療技術，在本次
會議中演講主題是 Epigenetics and its application。本會議邀請的專題演講如下表所列：
演講者 題目
Makoto Kikuchi Biophotonics applications to BME-from bench to bedside
Depei Liu Epigenetics and its application
Savio Woo Scaffold-based Tissue Engineering Approach to Enhance Soft Tissue
Healing and Regeneration
Dov Jaron A Systems Analysis Approach to Health and Well Being in the Changing
Urban Environment
Y. Ikada Biomaterials and Regenerative Medicine
Xiaochuan Pan Recent Advances in Computed-Tomography-Imaging Technology and
Application
Kerong Dai Mechanical Consideration for Perfusion Bioreactor
Arthur F.T. Mak Telecare Technology for the Elderly and the Vulnerable at Home and in
Community
Shangkai Gao Brain-computer Interface: Present and Future
Mian Long Molecular Biomechanics of Protein-Protein Interactions and Applications
在四月二十四日早上有一場演講值得注意，演講者是 Dr. Wang Haichang，是一位心臟外科
醫師，題目是 The Frontier of PCI Technology and Devices，演講者提到冠心病
(Cadiovascular Disease, CAD)的治療順序是給藥PTCA(再狹窄率 30-40%)SMA 支
附件一
14
圖片說明：(上)年輕學者競賽頒獎典禮，本人指導的學生獲得第三名的殊榮；
(下)本人在會場的照片
二、與會心得
本會議的主題是醫學工程與生物工程，雖然是亞太地區的會議，但是邀請的講員
都具有相當的國際知名度，由於本人從事生醫材料在藥物制放的應用，特別是奈米藥
物載體，在 4 月 24 日聽到大陸學者 Dr. Shuai Xintao 的報告，他過去論文(來自美國凱
斯西儲大學醫工系)即是本人研究的指標論文之一，這次獲知他整合奈米藥物載體與
MRI 感測功能於癌症治療的應用，這是非常值得學習的方向。但是這次會議的設計與
安排不甚理想，特別是許多大陸學者將未經訓練的學生安排進入口頭報告的場次，到
後來都以中文報告，這是非常可惜的地方，希望在台灣舉辦的國際會議不要發生這種
現象。本次承蒙國科會補助，本人從會議中獲得很多寶貴的知識，實屬獲益良多。
可供推廣之研發成果資料表
□ 可申請專利■ 可技術移轉 日期：97年 10 月 7日
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱：奈米高分子顆粒的製備與藥物釋放行為(II):對逆轉乳癌
細胞株多重抗藥性之評估
計畫主持人：謝明發
計畫編號：NSC96-2221-E-033-049-學門領域：醫學工程
技術/創作名稱 多分支型高分子藥物載體合成與評估
發明人/創作人 謝明發
中文：
本計劃發展生物相容性佳的多分支型高分子藥物載體，以共軛焦顯
微鏡與流式細胞儀發現該載體可以攜帶 doxorubicin 進入具抗藥
性乳癌細胞株，相較未經載體包覆的 dox，在細胞內藥物濃度較高。
技術說明
英文：
The present project developed biocompatible branched
polymeric drug carriers. Using confocal microscope and flow
cytometry, we found that doxorubicin-loaded carriers were
engulfed by multidrug resistant breast cancer cell lines.
Compared with free drug, doxorubicin accumulation in
cytoplasm is much higher than that of free drug.
可利用之產業
及
可開發之產品
醫藥產業
奈米藥物或保健食品的新劑型
技術特點
1. 生物相容性佳
2. 對抗藥性乳癌細胞有較佳的藥物累積劑量
推廣及運用的價值
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。
附件二
發生猝死，原因是發生術後栓塞(late-DES thrombosis)，然而未接受手術的病患也有栓塞
猝死的現象，所以造成許多病患選擇不接受治療。王醫師表示目前有一種支架可以避免
這種問題：Bifurcation stent，生產公司為德國的 Biotronik。王醫師最後評論 DES的未來
發展：有三項重點，分別是藥物塗層(高分子)厚度，藥物劑量及生物可降解材料。本計
畫案由參與的外籍學生阮文強(Nguyen Van Cuong)在 4 月 24 日年輕學者競賽(Young
Investigator Competition)進行口頭報告，也非常榮幸獲得評審青睞，名列第三名。
圖片說明：(上)年輕學者競賽頒獎典禮，本人指導的學生獲得第三名的殊榮；
(下)本人在會場的照片
