structure information, SSIM 
 
 mean intensity of luminance, luminance contrast and the 
geometrical distribution of classified image data. The 
geometrical structure information is extracted from the 
quantization of local image data by binary quantizer 
designed to preserve the first two moments of the image 
data [11, 12]. Through the original moment quantization, 
two clustering are classified in reference and distorted 
images. The statistical structure information is to 
calculate the similarity of luminance and contrast in two 
clustering of the image data.  
 
The functional block diagram for evaluating the 
objective score of the proposed metric is shown in Fig.1 
and the mean metric score can be expressed as 
 




1
0
)(
1
)(
M
l
llMPMPC SM
S y,xYX,
          
(1) 
 
where X and Y denote image to be assessed and the 
reference image, respectively. M is the number of image 
blocks involved in the assessment of image quality. 
),( lyxlMPS  denotes the metric score obtained from 
measuring the similarity between two corresponding 
blocks within the image to be evaluated and within the 
reference image.  That is  
 
),(),(),(),( llSllCllLllMP SSSS yxyxyxyx      (2) 
 
where ),( llSS yx  measures the similarity in spatial 
distribution of classified image data. ),( llLS yx  and 
),( llCS yx
 
measure the similarity in local luminance and 
contrast of the classified image data. 
 
The spatial distribution of the image data that have 
common attributes is also considered as important 
information in judging the similarity between two images 
in comparison.  As the simplest case, the locations of the 
image data that possess the luminance higher than the 
average luminance can be regarded as the information 
indicating the texture of the image content.  This 
structural information can be simply represented by a set 
of binary signals after an appropriate classification 
process or binary quantization.   For instance, the binary 
map obtained from quantizing the luminance signals of an 
image block shown in Fig. 2 by a binary quantizer can be 
taken as the local information of geometrical structure 
extracted from the image. The binary quantizer can be 
designed by preserving the first two moments of the 
reference image block [11, 12]. The decision level of the 
binary quantizer can be simply set to the mean luminance
η(xl) of the reference image. The degradation of the 
geometrical structure inherent in the test image against 
the reference image can be measured as the percentage of 
the image data that are not in the same class after the 
quantization.  The similarity in geometrical structure 
between two image block can be expressed as  
 

















N
iyQixQN
S
N
i
ll
llS
1
))(())((
)y,x(
     (7) 
 
where {Q(xl(i))} and {Q(yl(i))} denote the resulting  
bitmaps of the image blocks xl and yl after the 
quantization with the quantizer 
 
( .                  
(8) 
 
As can be calculated, the metric score of ),( llSS yx  is 
0.0 if the geometrical structure of the image block xl is 
totally different from that of the image block yl.  
 
Since the human visual system (HVS) is sensitive to 
the change in averaged luminance, the similarity measure 
in luminance structure is included and defined as  
 
Fig. 1   Block diagram for evaluating the objective score of the proposed metric 






)(,0
)(,1
)(
ll
ll
l uif
uif
uQ
x
x


  
 
  
 
  
 
TABLE   VI 
Performance of MSSIM measure on different types of distortion  
(Non-linear regression, block size: 24x24) 
TABLE   V 
Performance of the proposed metric on different types of distortion 
(Non-linear regression, block size: 24x24)  
TABLE   IV 
Performance of MSSIM measure on different types of distortion  
(Non-linear regression, block size: 16x16) 
TABLE   III 
Performance of the proposed metric on different types of distortion 
(Non-linear regression, block size: 16x16)  
TABLE   II 
Performance of MSSIM measure on different types of distortion  
(Non-linear regression, block size: 8x8) 
TABLE   I 
Performance of the proposed metric on different types of distortion 
(Non-linear regression, block size: 8x8) 
Fig. 4. (a) The original image of“coinsinfountain; (b) The original image distorted by blurring (MOS=0.815, MSSIM=0.921, proposed 
metric score=0.894); (c) The original image distorted by wn (MOS=0.735, MSSIM=0.781, proposed metric score=0.776); (d) The 
original image distorted by jpg2000 (MOS=0.877, MSSIM=0.891, proposed metric score=0.868); (e) The same image 
contaminated by low-pass filtering the image data within a local area (MOS=0.915, MSSIM=0.921, proposed metric score=0.885); 
(f) The image with luminance mean shift of local space(MOS=0.564, MSSIM=0.952, proposed metric score =0.601); 
(a) (b) (c) 
(d) (e) (f) 
大同大學補助教師出席國際會議報告 
99 年 4 月 28 日修訂 
報告人姓名 
中文: 周俊賢 
英文: Chou, Chun-Hsien 
單位及職稱 
電機系所教授 
會議正式名稱 
中文: 亞太訊號與資訊處理協會 2011 年峰會暨研討會 
英文: Asia-Pacific Signal and Information Processing Association (APSIPA), Annual Summit 
and Conference (APSIPA ASC 2011) 
發表論文題目 
中文: 基於量度結構資訊失真的影像品質評估 
英文: Image Quality Assessment Based on Measuring the Degradation in Geometrical 
Structural Information 
會 議 時 間 
自2011年 10月 18日至 2011年 10月 21
日 地點 (國、州、城市) 
中國, 西安 
報告內容：(應包括參加會議心得、建議、攜回資料名稱及內容、其他) 
 
一.參加會議心得 
本人係於 10 月 18 日偕同許雲翔同學前往西安參加亞太訊號與資訊處理協會 2011 年峰會暨研討會
(APSIPA ASC 2011) 並發表論文。19 日上午至會場報到註冊，領取研討會相關資料。其後檢視擬發表之
論文內容，並規劃擬參與聆聽之論文發表場次。本次研討會係由西安西北工業大學、北京清華大學主辦。
參與此會議的國家來自世界各地，包含美國、台灣、中國、日本、韓國…等，而研討議題主要包含語音訊
號處理、無線通訊傳輸技術、影像訊號處理等熱門相關研究，本次大會總計有 127 篇論文分成 35 個主題
進行。10 月 19 日上午參與了開幕式並聆聽 keynote speech: Automatic Speech Recognition: Trials, Tribulations 
and Triumphs. 感覺自動語音辨識研究因智慧型手机的流行再加上蘋果 iphone 4S手机的暢銷而有再度受到
重視與引領擴大研究的趨勢。其後參與論文發表的場次包含 Perceptual Processing for Multimedia Signals, 
Color and Texture,   
Image, Video, and Multimedia,  Visual Modeling,  Analysis and Quality Assessment. 在這些場次發表的論文
皆與我們目前的研究課題即彩色影像訊號處理與影像品質評估的研究相關。從這些發表的論文中，我們獲
得了若干新的資訊與啟示。在研討會最後一天的 Plenary Overview 6: Recent Developments and Future 
Trends in Visual Quality Assessment 中針對影像品質評估的研究技術有極為糸統化的整理與介紹並對其
後的發展趨勢亦多所分析。這對於我們目前進行的相關研究提供了許多寶貴的資料與提示，真可謂受益良
多。 
 
 
二.攜回資料名稱與內容 
研討會論文紀錄檔一份、研討會論文電子檔資料、研討會資料袋、會議行程。 
 
 
 
本報告請以 A4 紙張依式書寫。 
Image Quality Assessment Based on Measuring the 
Degradation in Geometrical Structural Information 
Chun-Hsien Chou and Yun-Hsiang Hsu  
Tatung University, Taipei, Taiwan 
E-mail: chou@ttu.edu.tw Tel: +886-022182-2928 
Tatung University, Taipei, Taiwan 
E-mail: tommy910203048@yahoo.com.tw Tel: +886-022182-2928 
 
 
Abstract — A new image quality metric based on measuring the 
loss of the structural information inherent in digital images is 
presented in this paper. The structural information is defined 
statistically and geometrically in a block basis. Statistical 
structure information includes luminance means and contrast. 
Geometrical structure information is extracted from the binary 
quantization that preserves the first two moments of the image 
block. To verify the validity of the proposed metric is evaluated 
against a large amount of test images in LIVE database and 
compared with that of the famous MSSIM. The cross-distortion 
test results show that the proposed metric outperforms MSSIM in 
judging the distorted images corrupted by JPEG2000, Gaussian 
blurring and fast fading and has the performance close to 
MSSIM in judging the distorted images corrupted by JPEG and 
white noises. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Image quality metric is an important technique in the 
development of image-processing systems. For systems and 
applications where processed images are to be viewed by 
human beings, the most reliable evaluation in image quality is 
obtained through subjective judgment. However, subjective 
evaluation is a cumbersome judgment process which is usually 
time-consuming and costly.  Therefore, the objective image 
quality metric that can automatically predict the image quality 
with a high agreement with the perceptual assessment of 
human beings has always been pursued and taken as the goal of 
the related research.  Traditionally, image quality is assessed 
by using simple quantitative metrics such as the PSNR and 
MSE. Nevertheless, these traditional metrics do not faithfully 
reflect the human visual perception [1-5]. Therefore, the 
objective image quality metric that can automatically predict 
the image quality with a meaningful quantitative score 
showing high consistency with the perceptual assessment of 
human beings has always been the goal of the related research.  
 
Natural images are considered to possess common statistical 
properties [8] and in general highly structured in content [14], 
where pixels within local areas exhibit strong dependencies. 
This high dependency carries important information 
manifesting the texture and structure of the objects in the scene. 
Structural information is therefore one of the important 
components that affect the visual quality of digital images. In 
the literature, many approaches using statistical properties of 
natural images and structural information for image quality 
assessment were proposed [6-10].  In [8, 9], natural scene 
statistics is used to assess the image quality by quantifying the 
mutual information between distorted and reference images.  
In [6, 7], the structural similarity metric (SSIM) was proposed 
to evaluate the image fidelity by measuring the loss of image 
structure.  The loss of image structural information can be 
attributed to the distortions of luminance mean, contrast and 
cross correlation. In [10], the characteristic matrix obtained by 
singular value decomposition (SVD) is taken as the structural 
information for evaluating the image quality.  
 
Among these approaches, structural information is mostly 
defined by the statistics of the image.  These statistical 
approaches have the drawback that the metric score can be still 
high as the perceptual quality may become objectionable due 
to sparse local distortion that contaminates the geometrical 
structure of the image, or the distortion due to mean shift. 
 
To reflect geometrical distortion in the objective metric 
score, the image quality assessment is better designed to take 
not only the statistical structural information but also the 
geometrical structural information into account. In this paper, 
the proposed image quality metric integrates the measure in the 
loss of geometrical structure information with the measure of 
distortion in local luminance and contrast. The local 
geometrical structure information is extracted through a binary 
quantization designed to statistically preserve the first two 
moments of the local image data.  The test images 
contaminated by various types of distortion (JPEG, JPEG2000, 
white noise, Gaussian Blur, Fast Fading), as can be found in the 
LIVE database of 982 images [13], are used in the simulation 
for verifying the validity of the proposed metric.   
II. THE PROPOSED IMAGE QUALITY METRIC 
The proposed image quality metric is designed to measure 
the degradation in structural information extracted from both 
the image to be assessed and its original.  The structural 
information consists of three separate components: mean 
intensity of luminance, luminance contrast and the geometrical 
distribution of classified image data. The geometrical structure 
information is extracted from the quantization of local image 
data by binary quantizers designed to preserve the first two 
moments of the image data [11, 12].
decision level of the binary quantizer can be simply set to the 
mean luminance 
th  ( )( lx ) of the reference image.  The 
degradation of the geometrical structure inherent in the test 
image against the reference image can be measured as the 
percentage of the image data that are not in the same class 
after the quantization.  The similarity in geometrical 
structure between two image block can be expressed as  
 



















N
iyQixQN
S
N
i
ll
llS
1
))(())((
),( yx
          (7) 
 
where {Q(xl(i))} and {Q(yl(i))} denote the resulting  bitmaps 
of the image blocks xl and yl after the quantization with the 
quantizer 
 
( .                  (8) 
 
 
 
As can be calculated, the metric score of ),( llSS yx    is 0.0 if 
the geometrical structure of the image block xl is totally 
different from that of the image block yl.  
III.  EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
The prediction accuracy of the proposed image quality 
metric is inspected by the simulation that employs the test 
images in the LIVE database [13].  The test images in the 
database are contaminated by five types of distortion (JPEG, 
JPEG2000, white noise, Gaussian Blur, Fast Fading) with the 
associated values of different mean opinion score (DMOS).  
To avoid the intensive computational complexity in the 
simulation, non-overlapping 88 blocks are used for 
evaluating the objective score.  The objective scores of the 
proposed metric after the cross-distortion test are compared 
against the subjective DMOS. The correlation between 
objective and subjective scores is inspected by Pearson 
correlation coefficient (CC), Root mean squared error (RMS), 
and Mean absolute error (MAE), in which nonlinear logistic 
regression method is adopted to fit the experimental data. The 
solid curve shown in Fig.3(a) is the result of the logistic 
fitting.  For the purpose of comparison, the prediction 
performance of the famous SSIM is also inspected by the 
same set of test images.  The associated curve for fitting the 
correlation between objective and subjective scores is shown 
in Fig.3(b). The fitting of the correlation curve associated with 
the proposed metric is better than that associated with the 
metric of SSIM in terms of the errors of fitting.  According to 
the performance of correlation evaluated by different tools (CC, 
RMSE and MAE), as demonstrated in Table1 and Table2, The 
proposed image quality metric is in average superior to SSIM.  
It is especially the case when assessing the images 
contaminated by the distortion due to white noises, Gaussian 
blurring and fast fading.   
 
  Further simulation results indicate that the proposed metric 
is able to reflect the image distortion due to shift in luminance 
mean in the objective score while the SSIM is less sensitive to 
the same type of distortion.  As an instance shown in Fig. 4, 
the SSIM scores remain high as the quality of the image 
degrades due to the shift in luminance.  The proposed metric 
seems in general being able to reflect more fidelity of the 
image than SSIM.  
IV.  CONCLUSION 
In this paper, a new metric that incorporates the 
geometrical structure information in the assessment of image 
quality is proposed. The structural information is extracted 
from the binary quantization that preserves the first two 
moments of the image. Simulation results show that the 
Fig. 2. The geometrical structure information embedded in the 
image block after the moment-preserving quantization 
TABLE   I 
Performance of the proposed metric on different types of distortion 
TABLE   II 
Performance of SSIM measure on different types of distortion 






thl
thl
l uif
uif
uQ


       
       
,0
,1
)(
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/04
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 基於影像結構失真與可視失真之畫質量尺研究
計畫主持人: 周俊賢
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-036-040- 學門領域: 訊號處理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
