2目錄
1. 研究計畫之背景及目的………………………………………………………………………………2
2. 研究方法………………………………………………………………………………………………4
3. 結果與討論……………………………………………………………………………………………7
4. 計畫成果自評…………………………………………………………………………………………10
5. 參考文獻………………………………………………………………………………………………12
報告內容
1. 研究計畫之背景及目的
IIn the past decades, there were many efforts from research groups and companies to push many novel
display technologies with ever improving image qualities to fulfil the needs of the even criticizing human
eyes. Brighter image, higher contrast ratio, higher resolution, greater uniformity and chromaticity, larger area
and thinner depth are all in the list of needs. With the progresses of micro-fabrication and nano-fabrication
technologies, micro-optical and nano-optical components are used to improve the image qualities mentioned
above. The examples are the brightness enhancement film (BEF, produced by 3M company), which is a
micro-prism film, and the dual brightness enhancement film (DBEF, produced by 3M company), which is a
multiple-microlayer film, used in the back-light module of LCD (see the figure below). The rear-projection
screen, which is composed of a Fresnel lens and a lenticular lens used for image uniformity and viewing
angle controlling, is another example of large area micro-optical components with the feature size of several
tens to several hundred micrometers [1-9] (see the figure below). Pixelated OLEDs with shaped substrates
with micro-refractive structures, like arrays of micro-lenses or pyramids or scattering layers, aligned on
individual OLED pixels (see the figure below) give an increase in extraction efficiency relative to the
unstructured substrate by a factor 2-3 [10-12]. The effect of micro-lens or pyramid arrays attached to the
substrate/air interface for un-pixelated OLEDs has been investigated by various authors with the result that
the extraction efficiency is increased by such structures by a factor in the range of 1.3 to 1.7 [13-17]. Light
extraction from the substrate by inclusion of small scattering particles in the nano- or micro-meter range is
the subject of [18-21].
There are several advantages of using micro-optical components instead of nano-optical
components in display systems. Micro-optical components are fabricated by micro-fabrication process
in which the line-width requirements are much looser and hence the process is much easier. The
working area of micro-fabrication process can also be larger than the nano-fabrication process and
hence the fabrication cost will be lower. The handling of micro-optical components is also easier than
that of nano-optical components. However, from our previous experience of designing display devices
or systems, artifacts may be observed while the micro-optical components are applied to such devices
or systems [7, 9, 32]. Artifacts are the undesired qualities of an image which are not part of the original
signal used to create that image. These errors can be a result of the system design, the result of the
physical characteristics of the display, interactions between the signal and the display, and/or interaction
between the human visual system and the display.
In our project of the previous year, the one artifact that has been studied is the Morie pattern, which
is an undesired periodic pattern resulted from superimposing two periodic structures with certain
4considered by the new design method. In the mean time, we would like to establish the relationship
between visual qualities and the above two artifacts. General simulation and experimental tools from
the basic optical property and mathematics are also the targets of this project.
The other artifact to be studied in this project is the speckle phenomenon, which is the scintillation
or blinking phenomenon caused by interference of the coherent or partial coherent light. Speckle gives
the entire image a grainy appearance and significantly reduces the apparent resolution of the display
system. The figure below shows the intensity profile across one line of a display driven by a uniform
video signal. The noise in the trace is caused by the optically generated speckle. Without speckle, the
profile would be a straight horizontal line. The ratio of the standard deviation to the average in a trace
like this is used as a measure of speckle and is called speckle contrast. Normally a speckle contrast
greater than 2% is visible and may be objectionable. Taking the microdisplay-based (HTPS-LCD, DLP,
LCoS) projection system for example, the speckle phenomenon is observed to be more pronounced as
compared with that in the CRT projection system. In a projection system, the coherence length is a
function of the diameter of the projection lens and the distance to the screen [25] and is given by
'sin610.0 
 . From this expression, the coherence length is proportional to the average wavelength
and is inverse proportional to the sine of the subtended angle, which is subtended by the exit pupil of
the projection lens at a point the screen. Speckle is a phenomenon associated with coherent or partial
coherent light. Since the ever growing application of solid state light sources, such as LED’s, OLED’s,
and even lasers, in the display area, speckle should be seriously take into account because their coherent
lengths are longer than that of lamp. Speckle can be considered as a high frequency noise and will
seriously deteriorate the image quality as microstructures or nanostructures are used in display devices
or systems. The smaller the unit size and the longer the coherence length, the worse the speckle
deteriorates the image quality. In this project, we would like to establish the relationship between visual
qualities and speckle phenomenon. General simulation and experimental tools from the basic optical
property and mathematics will also be developed. A pixelated OLED with microstructured or
nanostructured attachment will be the platform. The design rule for optimizing the brightness efficiency
and minimizing the image artifacts will be discussed.
As we have mentioned above, there are lots of microstructured elements used in the LCD backlight
module. Although these elements can be integrated into a single component [35], microstructure on it or
in it can still cause image artifacts. As compared with the cases for pixelated OLEDs, the
microstructures are behind the image device LCD. One kind of Morie pattern in the LCD backlight
module has been reported [36]. However, the image blurring and speckle phenomenon have not been
studied to our knowledge. With increasing importance of applying microstructures or nanostructures
and solid state light sources in LCD systems, studies of image artifacts are vital for high image quality
display systems and will become hot topics in the display area.
2. 研究方法
Briefly speaking, for the purposes of enhancing brightness or controlling the image uniformity and
viewing angle, microstructures or nanostructures have been used in pixelated display devices or systems.
But it seems that the image blurring, Morie pattern and speckle phenomenon are the fundamental
6(1) Evaluate and optimizing the image blurring and Morie pattern for a pixelated OLED with microlens
array attachment.
(2) Evaluate and optimizing the speckle phenomenon for a pixelated OLED with microlens array
attachment.
The most critical steps in this project are described in the following:
(1) Aiming at precisely predicting the behavior of optical beam propagating through the arrays of
micro-optical components in the pixelated display system, the simulation part of this project should
be implemented by developing an optical ray-tracing method for superimposing the pixelated
display with an array of micro-optics. This approach generally produces the most accurate light
distribution analyses. However since there are many form factors about designing the micro-optical
components, a try-and-error process is required for obtaining an optimized design. For studying the
image blurring and Morie pattern, a big illumination array should be modeled and a huge amount of
rays should be traced. The computation limitation should be overcome for getting reliable results.
We will develop an optical simulation method based on the rigorous method in this project.
(2) We will study the “clever”design method for avoiding both the image blurring and Morie pattern.
The design will depend on the specific display device or system we would like to deal with and the
functionality of the micro-optical components will be. In the first year, the experimental part of
measuring the image blurring and Morie pattern will be done by using a pixelated OLED display
with different micro-lens arrays on it. By taking high resolution images of the composite system, we
can make analysis of the resulted images. The “optimized”design will be the one with the highest
brightness efficiency and the least image blurring and Morie effect.
(3) Although we have quantitatively defined the blur width, we have to establish the relationship
between the blur parameter and the visual quality parameters. Moreover, both the visual quality and
the instrumental measurement must be correlated with the simulation results. The instrumental
Molding method [17]
8(3) By attaching microstructures, the efficiency can be enhanced. However, the enhancement can be
different for small and large pixel sizes of OLED. A novel hollow microlens array has proposed to
provide large enhancement for small pixel size of OLED [39].
10
4. 計畫成果自評
This research not only has great academic research value, but also has immediate market value. The
solid stste lighting has become the next generation technology to change human life. The light emitting
characteristics of LEDs or OLEDs are quite different from the conventional incandescent or fluorescent
lamp. The understanding of the fundamental optical property and optical design rule of LED lamps or
OLEDs becomes crucially important for developing new applications and expanding the market share.
It is the most important for Taiwan’s industry since such knowledge would add value to the product and
12
[9] Hoang Yan Lin, Pong Lai and Wann-Diiang Tyan, High Quality rear projection screen without ghost
image artifects, Digest of International Display Workshop (IDW) 2000, pp. 1181-1182, Kobe, Japan,
Nov. 2000.
OLED
[10] G. Gu,D.Z. Garbuzov, P.E. Burows, S.Venkatesh, S.R. Forest, “High-external quantum efficiency
organic light emiting devices”, Optics Leters 22(6), 396-398 (1997)
[11]C.F. Madigan, M.H. Lu, J.C. Sturm, “Improvement of output coupling eficiency oforganic
light-emiting diodes by backside substrate modification”, Applied Physics
Letters, 76(13), 1650-1652, (2000)
[12]P. Melpignano, “Flexible Microstructured Organic Light Sources for AutomotiveApplications”, 
SPIE Proceedings Vol. 5464, 130-136 (2004)
[13] S. Möler, S.R. Forest, “Improved light out-coupling in organic light emitting diodes employing
ordered microlens arays”, Journal of Applied Physics 91(5),3324-3327, (2001)
[14]T. Nakamura et al., “Thin-Film waveguiding mode light extraction in organic electroluminescent
device using high refractive substrate”, Journal of AppliedPhysics 97, 054505 (2005)
[15]H.J. Peng, “Coupling Eficiency Enhancement of Organic Light Emiting Deviceswith Refractive
Microlens Aray on High Index Glass Substrate”, SID 04 Digest, 158-161, (2004)
[16] S. Tanaka, Y. Kawakami, andY. Naito, “Improvement of the External Extraction ofOLED by
using a pyramid aray”, SPIE Proceedings Volume 5519, 184-193, (2004)
[17]M.K. Wei, I.L. Sun, “Method to evaluate the enhancement of luminance efficiency in planar OLED
light emiting devices for microlens aray”, Optics Express 12(23),5777-5782 (2004)
[18]T.Nakamura, “Improvement of coupling-out efficiency in organic electroluminescent devices by
addition of a difusive layer”, Journalof Applied Physics 96(11), 6016-6022 (2004)
[19] J.J. Shiang, A.R. Duggal, “Application of radiative transport theory to lightextraction from organic
light emiting diodes”, Journal of Applied Physics 95(5),2880-2888 (2004)
[20] J.J. Shiang, T.J. Faircloth, A.R. Duggal, “Experimental demonstration of increasedorganic light
emiting device via volumetric light scatering”, Journal of AppliedPhysics 95(5), 2889-2895 (2004)
[21]T. Yamasaki et al., “Organic light-emitting device with an ordered monolayer of silica
microspheres as a scatering medium”, Applied Physics Leters 76(10), 1243-1245 (2000)
[30] K. Y. Chen, Y. H. Ho, J. H. Lee, H. Y. Lin, and M. K. Wei, “LuminanceEnhancement of Organic
Light-Emitting Devices by Microlens FilmAtachment,” OECC 2006, Kaoshiung, Taiwan, Jul. 2006.
[31] S. C. Hsu, K. Y. Chen, H. Y. Lin, J. H. Lee, C. Y. Lin, and M. K. Wei,“ Light extraction 
efficiency enhancement on organic light-emitting device by microlens array attachment: a systematic
approach”, IDMC 2006, DaeGu, Korea, Aug. 2006.
[32] Y. H. Ho, K. Y. Chen, J. H. Lee, H. Y. Lin, C. C. Lin, M. K. Wei,“Luminance Enhancement and
Blur Effect of Microlens Array Film Attachment on Organic Light-Emitting Device”, IEEE LEOS
Annual Meeting 2006, Montreal, Canada, Oct. 2006
[33] S. Moller and S. R. Forrest,“Improved light out-coupling in organic light emitting diodes
employing orderd microlens array”, J. Appl. Phys. 91, 3324 (2002).
[34] H. Y. Lin, S. C. Hsu, J. H. Lee, and M. K. Wei,“Design and Analysis of Microoptical Elements for


