 .  Introduction  
Shrinking product life cycles, rapidly changing technologies, and demanding customers 
are some of the forces that drive new development processes. Manufacturers nowadays face 
a market with rising international competition and requiring customization of high product 
variety, shorter product lifecycle and development time [1]. To ensure product quality, 
market share, and profitability, manufacturers are increasingly focusing on improving 
product development practices by integrating quality function [3]. They need to integrate 
efficient controls of quality and cost management systems throughout the whole product life 
cycle to ensure their products are successfully developed and launched.  
Quality function deployment (QFD) provides a specific approach to ensure quality 
through each stage of the product development and production process. QFD was designed 
originally to take the voice of the customer(VOC) and translate VOC into a set of design 
parameters [3]. Additionally, it can also be designed as an overall concept that provides a 
means of translating the needs of customers through the various stages of product planning, 
engineering, and manufacturing into a final product [6].  
Product design and development is a collaborative effort among all involved parties. 
Design information may come in many forms and is generated by a wide variety of 
computer-based tools [5]. The exchange of design information is now much more difficult 
given the complexity of modern products and design processes. Many organizations have 
experienced various difficulties in accommodating all value elements in new product 
development process. 
A good conceptual design method can help the designers explore the entire space of 
alternatives thoroughly in the early product development stages and greatly reduces the 
likelihood of design failure later in the development process or the possibility of being 
overtaken by a competing product [4]. Similarly, profitable product design should also mean 
a design that can be easily manufactured or can fulfill its functional requirements within the 
defined tolerance [13]. A poor product concept could lead to high costs of redesign and a 
delay in product realization [4].  
QFD-based Product Information Flow
IT infrastructure for product lifecycle 
PDM/
Design repository CAD/CAM/CAE ERP/BPM
New Product Development (NPD) process 
Contextual
Research
Product
Concept
Design
Product
Embodiment
Validation
& Verification
Production
& Delivery
 
Fig-1  The Framework of QFD-based Product Information Flow 
 
2. Related Works 
2.1  New Prodcut Development & Product Information 
flow 
The new product development (NPD) process which is considered as an activity 
requiring the input and concerted effort of relevant functional disciplines covering entire 
process of product development [11].  Product development starts from conceptual product 
design and feasibility analysis, proceeding to CAD, prototyping, tooling, production, quality 
control, delivery, and finally product disposal. During the stage of detail design, engineering 
changes frequently occur, and product designs evolve iteratively as many uncertainties are 
involved in transforming the abstract design concept to concrete product layout.  
A product concept is a concise description of how a product can satisfy customer needs. 
The extent to which a product can satisfy customers and can be commercialized depends on 
the quality of the underlying design concept [4]. This product development process is 
accomplished by a certain number of functional design groups adding to and fleshing out the 
design from conception through production, where each function plays a specific and limited 
role [12].   
development. Firms have also found that product development efforts benefit from the early 
involvement of many functions besides product design. Among these other functions can be 
representatives of other engineering disciplines,manufacturing or marketing [17]. 
In addition, the extended PDM is Collaborative Product Development or Product 
Lifecycle Management (PLM), still lacks the essential ‘development’ aspects and acts simply 
as a gateway for sharing designs, documents and effect revision control, engineering change 
and workflow [18]. The PLM systems are gaining acceptance for managing all information 
about a corporation’s products throughout the products’ full lifecycle. Global competition is 
one of the key drivers for many organizations to adopt the PLM concept and implement PLM 
systems. The PLM concept aims to streamline product development and boost innovation in 
manufacturing. 
PLM also holds the promise of seamlessly integrating and making available all of the 
information produced throughout all phases of a product’s life cycle to everyone in an 
organization, along with key suppliers and customers. Manufacturers can shrink the time it 
takes to introduce new product models in a number of ways. Product engineers can 
dramatically shorten the cycle of implementing and approving engineering changes across an 
extended design chain. Purchasing agents can work more effectively with suppliers to reuse 
parts. Executives can take a high-level view of all important product information, from 
details of the manufacturing line to parts failure rates culled from warranty data and 
information collected in the field.  
In [19], materials. Customers can input information through the Internet Marketing and 
Product Visualization (IMPV) system which allows consumers to customize their products 
over the web and left the relative information for manufacturer to effectively recognize 
customers’ needs and requirements directly. 
 
2.3  Quality Function Deployment (QFD) 
QFD was first developed in the late 1960s and then implemented at the Kobe Shipyards 
of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries in Japan in 1972 [6]. QFD was designed originally to take 
ongoing evaluation and culminating with a final evaluation [5].   
General NPD process consist of several dominant stages across product lifecycle such 
as contextual research, product concept design, product embodiment, validation & 
verification and production & delivery etc. Design information is simply defined as the 
artifact generated or transformed during a product development effort. 
Contextual
Research
Product
Concept
Design
Product
Embodiment
Validation
& Verification
Production
& Delivery
VoC Product
Function 
& Spec.
Conceptual
Structure
Product
Detail design
(CAD/CAM)
FMEA
CAPP
DFM/A
BOM /
QC plan
 
A key to realize this flexibility is nothing other than a process chain that tightly 
integrates demand management, production scheduling, and inventory deployment to allow 
the companies to better utilize information, production resources, and inventory [20]. 
Product data flow across multiple places, where different customs, policies, and procedures 
shape data and data-related problem solving efforts. Many gaps exist due to the lack of 
consensus of the goals and constrains regarding to the developing product, common 
recognition about customer’s needs, and poor communication environment for product 
development.  
For each NPD process, we can apply several iterative activities of QFD to generate 
information flow among design works. These activities include preliminary analysis, input 
request items, collect responding items, relationship analysis, correlationship analysis (HoG) 
and generate design target etc. 
Fig. The Atomic unit of PIF model 
 
 
3.1 Tracibility 
 
PDM enables companies to move from project-based to product-based in order to ease 
engineering change management. In the product design and engineering domain, workflow 
processes are not totally specified and require negotiation which lead to many ad-hoc 
engineering changes. Many studies have shown that the costs associated with these 
engineering changes are very high [21]. 
Since product architectural knowledge is vague and highly dependent on the experience 
of the designer at the early stage of product development, the paper presents a set of 
guidelines to evaluate the effects of components interactions on quality metrics in the form 
of rating scales [13].  
effectively embraced for continuous participation in information-processing dominated 
design / planning through information substitutive detour at every upstream life-cycle stage, 
late requirements can be resolved before the start of, and thus detour can be avoided in, 
physical-resourceconsumption dominated implementations. 
Under some conditions, enterprise engineering and product development may have 
common specifications on tasks to be performed, as the mission of an enterprise is to 
perform all or part of the processes related with product development in order to me et 
market demands. Particularly in non-partnership enterprise enginee ring, primary processes 
related to product development have almost a one-to-one correspondence with the 
departments of enterprise in order to realize product development [22]. 
 
2007. 32(11-12): p. 1064-1073. 
5. Shooter, S.B., et al., A Model for the Flow of Design Information in the Open Assembly 
Design Environment (OpenADE). NISTIR 6746, August 2001. 
6. Shin, J.S. and K.J. Kim, Complexity reduction of a design problem in QFD using 
decomposition. Journal of Intelligent Manufacturing, 2000. 11(4): p. 339-354. 
7. Lai, X., M. Xie, and K.C. Tan, Dynamic programming for QFD optimization. Quality and 
Reliability Engineering International, 2005. 21(8): p. 769-780. 
8. Deng, Y.M., S.B. Tor, and G.A. Britton, Abstracting and exploring functional design 
information for conceptual mechanical product design. Engineering with Computers, 
2000. 16(1): p. 36-52. 
9. Shooter, S.B., et al., A model for the flow of design information in product development. 
Engineering with Computers, 2000. 16(3-4): p. 178-194. 
10. BOH, W.F. and D. YELLIN, Using Enterprise Architecture Standards in Managing 
Information Technology. Journal of Management Information Systems, Winter 2006. 
23(3): p. 163-207. 
11. LEE, C.K.M., et al., Enhancing product development through a dynamic information 
interchange approach. International Journal of Production Research, December 2006. 
44(23): p. 5197-5222. 
12. Ho, Y.-C. and C.-H. Li, A concurrent function deployment-based and concurrent 
engineering-based product development method for original design manufacturing 
companies. Journal of Engineering Design, 2008. 
13. Nepal, B., L. Monplaisir, and N. Singh, A methodology for integrating design for quality 
in modular product design. Journal of Engineering Design, 2006. 17(5): p. 387-409. 
14. Yassine, A., D. Falkenburg, and K. Chelst, Engineering design management: an 
information structure approach. International Journal of Production Research, 1999. 
37(13): p. 2957-2975. 
15. Van Wie, M., et al., A model of function-based representations. Ai Edam-Artificial 
Intelligence for Engineering Design Analysis and Manufacturing, 2005. 19(2): p. 89-111. 
16. Xu, D. and H.S. Yan, An intelligent estimation method for product design time. 
International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology, 2006. 30(7-8): p. 601-613. 
17. Rouibah, K. and K.R. Caskey, Change management in concurrent engineering from a 
parameter perspective. Computers in Industry, 2003. 50(1): p. 15-34. 
18. Kalargeros, N. and J.X. Gao, QFD: focusing on its simplification and easy 
computerization using fuzzy logic principles. International Journal of Vehicle Design, 
1998. 19(3): p. 315-325. 
19. Duffy, V.G., B.P.C. Yen, and G.W. Cross, Internet marketing and product visualization 
(IMPV) system: development and evaluation in support of product data management. 
International Journal of Computer Integrated Manufacturing, 2003. 17(1): p. 1-15. 
20. Umeda, S. and S. Jain, Integrated Supply Chain SimulationSystem 
(ISSS) –ModelingRequirements and Design Issues. NISTIR 7180, October 2004. 
21. K. ROUIBAH, S.R.a.W.M.P.V.D.A., Combining workflow and PDM based on the 
workflow management coalition and STEP standards: the case of axalant. International 
Journal of Computer Integrated Manufacturing, 2007. i-First article: p. 1-17. 
рৢ୯ሞᏢೌ཮᝼Јளൔ֋
ीฝጓဦ NSC 96-2221-E-008-097 
ीฝӜᆀ ຘመז෻Գፖवᢝ஄ᖞٽݾ๬Δሒګᄅข঴ઔ࿇հ٤૿سࡎၜཚጥ෻ऱࣚ೭ᖄٻٞᄐᖞٽਮዌ
р୯Γ঩ۉӜ
୍ܺᐒᜢϷᙍᆀ
೚ඵ၈ǴύѧεᏢၗᆅسշ౛௲௤
཮᝼ਔ໔Ӧᗺ Seoul, S. Korea, July 7-9, 2008 
཮᝼Ӝᆀ Business and Information 2008 
ว߄ፕЎᚒҞ (as session chair) 
΋ǵୖу཮᝼࿶ၸ
ୖуҁԛ཮᝼Ьाࢂѐ྽ Session ChairǴаቚቶԾρЬ࡭ࣴ૸཮΋ঁ sessionޑૈΚǶӆ
ୖᆶ཮᝼ޑӕਔǴـډΑ೚ӭࣴزᜪ՟ሦୱޑӕՉǴҬඤӚᅿࣴزЈளǴ᝺ளԜՉߚத
ॶளǶ
Βǵᆶ཮Јள
ୖуҁԛ཮᝼Ьाࢂѐ྽ Session ChairǴаቚቶԾρЬ࡭ࣴ૸཮΋ঁ sessionޑૈΚǶӧ
ך܌Ь࡭ޑٗঁ sessionύޑӅԖϤጇፕЎว߄ǴӚጇޑख़ᗺᆶࣴزБݤ֡Ԗ܌όӕǶᡣ
ךᏢډΑӵՖ௓ڋਔ໔ǴϷڐፓୖᆶޣӅӕ໣ύޑ૸ፕୢᚒǶ၀ sessionനࡕᗋഭΠऊΜ
൳ϩដǴΨᡣךᏢ཮Α၀ӵՖЬ୏ගୢǴҧр᝼ᚒ๏܌ԖୖᆶޣǴٰ૸ፕচҁӧӚ paper
૸ፕύǴۘ҂ֹԋޑᚒҞǶӵԜςᡣ܌Ԗ၀ sessionޑୖᆶޣϷ presentޑΓ೿Ԗ᝺ள೭
ঁ session chairࡽԖᕕှҁ sessionޑЬा᝼ᚒǴΨԖӕਔྣ៝ޑ܌Ԗޑ presenterϷ
audienceǶӕਔ٠ܭ session่״ࡕǴӆᆶୖᆶޣ၁ፋᆶ཮ЈளǶ೭ԛޑ࿶ᡍ٬ךჹܭ۳
ࡕ၀ӵՖЬ࡭᏾ঁ sessionǴӵՖڐፓ presenterϷ audienceǴӵՖᆶ program committees
ྎ೯฻ख़ा໨Ҟ೿ԖΑ׳ుϪޑ౛ှǶ
ߕ΢րΓЬ࡭ޑ sessionޑ܌Ԗว߄ЎകǶ
Session[F2] 11:00 - 12:40 Meeting Room 3A 
Operation and Technology Management 
Session Chair Kevin C. Hsu 
A Study on Mobile Platform of On-line Rule-based Analyzer with RFID Locater for 
Heterogeneous Enterprise Applications 
Yungchung Tsao National Central University 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-008-097 
計畫名稱 透過代理人與知識庫整合技術，達成新產品研發之全面生命週期管理的服務導向企業整合架構 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
許智誠，中央大學資管系助理教授 
會議時間地點 Seoul, S. Korea, July 7-9, 2008 
會議名稱 Business and Information 2008 
發表論文題目 (as session chair) 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
參加本次會議主要是去當 Session Chair，以增廣自己主持研討會一個 session的能力。再
參與會議的同時，見到了許多研究類似領域的同行，交換各種研究心得，覺得此行非常
值得。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
參加本次會議主要是去當 Session Chair，以增廣自己主持研討會一個 session的能力。在
我所主持的那個 session中的共有六篇論文發表，各篇的重點與研究方法均有所不同。讓
我學到了如何控制時間，及協調參與者共同集中的討論問題。該 session最後還剩下約十
幾分鐘，也讓我學會了該如何主動提問，丟出議題給所有參與者，來討論原本在各 paper
討論中，尚未完成的題目。如此已讓所有該 session的參與者及 present的人都有覺得這
個 session chair既有瞭解本 session的主要議題，也有同時照顧的所有的 presenter及
audience。同時並於 session結束後，再與參與者詳談與會心得。這次的經驗使我對於往
後該如何主持整個 session，如何協調 presenter及 audience，如何與 program committees
溝通等重要項目都有了更深切的理解。 
 
附上吾人主持的 session的所有發表文章。 
 
 
Session[F2] 11:00 - 12:40 Meeting Room 3A 
Operation and Technology Management 
Session Chair Kevin C. Hsu 
A Study on Mobile Platform of On-line Rule-based Analyzer with RFID Locater for 
Heterogeneous Enterprise Applications 
Yungchung Tsao National Central University 
