 II 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
■ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                          日期：98 年 10 月 26 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱： 
基於藍牙隨意網路之 Bluelayer 系統架構設計與效能評估 
計畫主持人：余誌民         
計畫編號：NSC  97－2218－E  －468－006－             
學門領域：網路 
技術/創作名稱 
Bluelayer 網路形成演算法 
發明人/創作人 余誌民、黃家齊 
中文： 
Bluelayer 隨機選取一個初始的根節點(init root)來建立樹狀
(tree-shaped)子網路，此根節點往外傳送 k1 和 k 的參數來決定
新的根節點，當新的根節點產生後，它會通知上一個主節點
(master)執行回返連接(return connection)，將上ㄧ個根節點的
子網路從樹狀改成網狀(web-shaped)，同時，每個新的根節點重複
初始根節點的作法，建立自己的子網路直到整個網路形成。 
技術說明 英文： 
Bluelayer randomly selects an init node as root to construct a 
tree-shaped subnet and propagates a counter limit k1 as well as a 
constant k in its downstream direction to determine new roots. Then 
each new root asks its upstream master to start a return connection 
procedure to convert the tree-shaped subnet into a web-shaped subnet 
for its immediate upstream root. At the same time, each new root 
repeats the same procedure as the root to build its own subnet until the 
whole scatternet is formed. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
此計算方法可應用在現有 Bluetooth、Zigbee、UWB、WiMAX 與 802.11
與 3G 的產品上。 
技術特點 
以分散式的讓每個節點自行計算其所扮演之角色。 
推廣及運用的價值 
本計劃成果已發表於 IEICE Trans. on Comm.期刊，將來可申請專
利應用的現有無線網路之相關產品。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 
貴單位研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 
附件二 
 IV 
Abstract 
In this paper, a decentralized scatternet formation algorithm called Bluelayer is 
proposed. Bluelayer is a tier-based method to determine new roots and each new root 
spontaneously generates their individual web-shaped subnets. First, Bluelayer uses a 
designated root to construct a tree-shaped subnet and propagates a counter limit k1 as 
well as a constant k in its downstream direction to determine new roots. Then each 
new root asks its upstream master to start a return connection procedure to convert the 
tree-shaped subnet into a web-shaped subnet for its immediate upstream root. At the 
same time, each new root repeats the same procedure as the designated root to build 
its own subnet until the whole scatternet is formed. Simulation results show that the 
subnet size can be controlled by appropriated selecting the k parameter and each root 
manages its subnet decentralized.  
Bluelayer is a self-organizing Bluetooth-based multihop network equipped with a 
scatternet formation algorithm and a hybrid routing protocol. The routing protocol 
combines the reactive method globally and the proactive method locally to discover 
the optimal path for packet transmission. In Blueweb, the route master maintains the 
global topology information and each master maintains its own N-tier routing 
information. In this letter, a tier number decision algorithm is used in Blueweb to 
determine the optimal number of tiers for all the other masters. 
Finally, computer simulation results show that this algorithm can efficiently 
improve the routing performance and reduce the routing maintenance cost for 
Blueweb routing protocol. As a result, Bluelayer achieves good network scalability 
and generates an efficient scatternet configuration for various sizes of Bluetooth 
scatternet. 
Index terms— Bluetooth, ad hoc network, scatternet formation, hybrid routing  
 VI 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Bluetooth is emerging as a potential technology for short-range wireless ad hoc 
network. This technology enables the design of low power, low cost, and short-range 
radio which is embedded in existing portable devices. Initially, Bluetooth technology 
is designed as a cable replacement solution among portable and fixed electronic 
devices. Today, people tend to use a number of mobile devices such as cellular 
phones, PDA’s, digital cameras, laptop computers, and so on. Consequently, there 
exists a strong demand for connecting these devices into networks. As a result, 
Bluetooth becomes an ideal candidate for the construction of ad hoc personal area 
networks. 
Until now, many scatternet formation algorithms for constructing a Bluetooth ad 
hoc network have been proposed. In general, these algorithms can be divided into two 
categories: the coordinated methods and the distributed methods [1]. The coordinated 
methods [2]-[4] commonly use a coordinator node to construct the whole scatternet. 
On the other hand, the distributed methods [5]-[7] usually select a leader to form the 
piconet locally and merge piconets to build up the whole scatternet.  
In [2], two scatternet formation algorithms are proposed. One is Bluetree and the 
other one is Distributed Bluetree. Bluetree uses a root node to start the scatternet 
formation process and then constructs the whole scatternet. This algorithm can be 
implemented easily but the root node is likely to become the bottleneck. The 
Distributed Bluetree operates in two phases. In the first phase, root nodes are elected 
and local subnets are formed. In the second phase, the subnets are merged through 
their leaf nodes until the whole scatternet is built. Finally, each root node manages its 
own tree-shape subnet. 
In order to avoid the root node bottleneck problem and decentralized to manage the 
 VIII 
procedure by paging up to 7 neighboring slaves, and forms the first piconet, as shown 
in Fig. 1(a). The slaves then switch their roles to masters (called S/M nodes). Each 
S/M node pages only one additional neighboring slave, as shown in Fig. 1(b). After 
these S/M nodes connect to their slaves, a role exchange mechanism is executed such 
that the S/M nodes switch their roles to relays (called S/S nodes) and their slaves 
switch their roles to masters, then the new masters begin to page up to 7 neighboring 
slaves, as shown in Fig. 1(c). This procedure is operated iteratively until the leaf 
nodes of the tree are reached.  
In the second phase, each leaf node will request either itself (if it is a master) or its 
immediate upstream master to function as a returning master and start a return 
connection procedure. A returning master will page any available neighboring slave 
and connect with it. If this new link is established, the slave switches its role to a 
relay (S/S node), as shown in Fig. 1(d). Then the returning master will ask its 
immediate upstream master to function as the next returning master. This return 
connection procedure is operated iteratively in the upstream direction until the 
designated root is reached. As a result, the designated root can manage the whole 
scatternet with global topology information. 
 X 
In this way, when the (k1)th master is reached, k1=0 and the master becomes a new 
root and the counter limit k1 is reset to k. The tree-shaped subnet of the designated 
root is created. Then this new root asks its upstream masters to start the return 
connection procedure and tries to connect with one additional piconet until its 
immediate upstream root is reached. As a result, the tree-shaped subnet of the 
designated root is converted into the web-shaped subnet. 
At the same time, the new root repeats the same procedure as the designated root to 
build its own subnet and propagates the two parameters to determine new roots. This 
procedure is continued until the leaf nodes are reached. All the leaf nodes will request 
their immediate upstream masters to conduct the return connection procedure until its 
immediate upstream root is reached, and the whole scatternet is formed. Finally, each 
root manages its own web-shaped subnet. 
Here, we use k=2 in Fig. 1 as an example to describe the Bluelayer scatternet 
formation process. At the beginning, the designated root R1 connects with the first 
tier masters, as shown in Fig. 2(a). Then the first tier masters decrease k1 by 1 and 
continue to connect with their downstream masters. When the second tier masters are 
reached and the counter limit k1=0. Then these masters become new roots and reset 
k1 to k, as shown in Fig. 2(b). The tree-shaped subnet of the designated root is 
created. 
Then these new roots ask their upstream masters to start the return connection 
procedure until R1 is reached. The topology of the designated root is finished and it 
generates a web-shaped subnet. At the same time, these new roots start to page new 
slaves and connect with their immediate downstream masters (leafs in this example), 
as shown in Fig. 2(c) to build their own tree-shaped subnets.  
When the leaf masters are reached, these masters start the return connection 
 XII 
cost. Third, using both k and k1 parameters, the subnet size is controllable. As a result, 
Bluelayer achieves good network scalability for various sizes of Bluetooth scatternet. 
 
IV. TIER NUMBER DECISION ALGORITHM 
In Blueweb, each master (including the route master) maintains its N-tier piconet 
information. The larger N-tier improves the routing performance but generates more 
routing overhead in terms of maintenance cost. There is a trade-off between routing 
performance and maintenance cost for this hybrid routing protocol. In order to 
achieve the optimal routing performance with the least maintenance cost, a tier 
number decision algorithm is used in the route master to compute the optimal number 
of tiers for all the other masters.  
The tier number decision algorithm is described as follows. After route master 
collects the overall topology information, the N-tier delay performance of the 
Blueweb routing protocol can be found through computer simulation. By computing 
the delay performance of I-tier and (I+1)-tier iteratively, the optimal n-tier can be 
determined and this algorithm will be terminated. Where the computation sequence 
for I is varied from 1 to N.  
An example of simulated delay performances for different number of tiers is shown 
in Fig. 3. The delay threshold S is a predefined system QoS parameter for tier number 
decision in Blueweb network.  
 
 XIV 
simulated average packet delay is larger than the delay threshold S , the packet 
generation rate 2,kt  is recorded. Then, 2,kt  is decreased in a step size of δ  to 
determine 2t  with the same method as in the 1-tier case. In the same way, 3t  in the 
3-tier case can also be determined. 
When the system performance improvement ratio 1 /I It t+  is below the other 
predefined threshold T, the configuration of I tiers will be selected as the optimal 
n-tier and the algorithm stops here.  
After determining the optimal configuration of Blueweb routing protocol, the route 
master passes the tier number n to its immediate downstream masters. Then, each 
master passes this n to its immediate downstream masters until the leaf masters are 
reached. Finally, each master exchanges and maintains its optimal n-tier routing 
information to reduce the overall routing maintenance cost. 
 
V. SYSTEM PERFORMANCE SIMULATION 
V.1 Bluelayer Performance 
V.1.A. Simulation Model and System Parameters  
A simulation program based on Matlab is written to evaluate the system 
performance. First, we assume that the Bluetooth nodes are uniformly located on a 
rectangular lattice and the number of neighboring nodes which can be reached by 
each node is between 2 and 4. The simulated node number ranges from 60, 70, 80,…, 
to 150. The page time is set to 1.28 second and the page scan time is set to 0.64 
second. A set of performance metrics is calculated by averaging over 100 randomly 
generated topologies for each simulated node number. The constant k is varied from 1, 
2, 3, to 4 and the simulation results of Bluelayer are shown as follows. 
 
 XVI 
Distributed Bluetree. The k=4 case produces the largest average subnet size since it 
generates the least number of roots than all the other cases. In addition, the subnet 
size can also be controlled by appropriately selecting the k parameter. Moreover, each 
new root in Bluelayer only manages its own subnet and this strategy introduces much 
less operation cost.  
 
60 80 100 120 140 160
Number of nodes
2
4
6
8
10
Av
e
ra
ge
 
su
bn
et
 
si
ze
Bluelayer performance
k=1
k=2
k=3
k=4
Distributed Bluetree
 
Fig. 5. Average subnet size in a scatternet 
 
V.2 Bluelayer Routing Performance 
In this section, we simulate and evaluate the system performance for Blueweb with 
the N-tier routing protocol. The performance evaluations are based on a uniform 
end-to-end traffic model to demonstrate the system performance of Blueweb. A 
 XVIII 
Source-destination pair Randomly selected  
Query or reply packet 1 time slot 
Data packet (for each routing session) 5 time slots 
Each routing session  1 data packet 
Predefined delay threshold 1600 time slots 
Performance improvement ratio  1.1 
 
V.2.B. Routing Performance 
V.2.B.1 Average Packet Delay 
The average packet delay metric is defined as the average packet transmission time 
from the first transmitted bit at the source node to the last received bit at the 
destination node for every routing packet. In addition, our simulation adopts the 
Poisson arrival traffic pattern, the round robin scheduling algorithm, and the modified 
source routing protocol to evaluate this performance metric in a uniform end-to-end 
traffic model.  
Fig. 6 shows the average packet delay performance of Blueweb. The average 
packet delay increases as the packet generation rate increases. In addition, the larger 
number of tiers achieves better delay performance than the smaller number of tiers 
and the 4-tier case generates the smallest average delay.  
With the tier number decision algorithm, we simulated the delay performance for 
the above four configurations and the results are shown in Fig. 3. The predefined 
delay threshold S  was set to be 1600 time slots. In the first configuration case, the 
session generation rate starts from 1,0t =1.0 and is increased in a step size of α =1.0 
to simulate the average session delay. When the average session delay is larger than 
the delay threshold S , the session generation rate 1,kt  is recorded and 1,kt  is 
 XX 
to the route master is defined as the global query time.  
Fig. 7 shows the average route query time performance (including both the local 
and global query time) represents about three-fourths of the overall average packet 
delay time. In addition, the larger number of tiers achieves better packet query time 
performance in terms of routing performance than the smaller number of tiers and the 
3-tier case is reduced significantly from the 1-tier cases. Because the local query with 
a larger local routing table effectively shares the working load of global query.  
 
0 2 4 6 8 10
Packet generation rate (packets/node/sec)
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
Av
e
ra
ge
 
pa
ck
e
t q
u
er
y 
tim
e
 
(sl
o
ts
)
Query time performace
40 nodes 1-tier
40 nodes 2-tier
40 nodes 3-tier
 
Fig. 7. Average packet query time 
 
VI. CONCLUSIONS 
Our Bluelayer is a tier-based method to generate new roots and spontaneously 
