 2 
中文摘要： 
本計畫內容在於利用低溫電鍍鎳製程，並於鍍液中加入奈米鑽石顆粒，共同沉積
形成電鍍鎳基奈米複合材料，以討論奈米顆粒的添加所帶來的材料性質變化，並
藉由材料性質的變化，來提升微機電元件的性能。首先，藉由不同粒子的添加，
包括奈米鑽石顆粒(350nm, 125nm, 和 50nm)和二氧化矽顆粒(80nm)，可以調控
複合材料熱膨脹係數與楊氏係數的提升或衰減。本實驗室是首先發現金屬奈米複
材有提升熱膨脹係數特性的研究團隊，雖然複合材料楊氏係數的強化，可以藉由
傳統混合法則解釋；但是對於熱膨脹係數的強化，卻無法以通常的混合法則解釋
之。從 X 光繞射圖譜(XRD)的觀察，獲得複合材料中殘留應力形態與複合材料熱
膨脹係數間的關係；並由穿透式電子顯微鏡(TEM)觀察奈米顆粒鑲嵌於基材中的
位置，成功地解釋複合材料的殘留應力形態變化與其熱膨脹係數間的關係。其
次，利用彎曲測試的方式，藉由電鍍鎳與電鍍鎳-鑽奈米複材所製成的微懸臂樑，
以討論材料的疲勞行為與特性。電鍍鎳基材由於奈米鑽石顆粒的添加，使得電鍍
鎳-鑽奈米複材具有較高的楊氏係數；特別是添加較小顆粒的奈米鑽石，其複材
楊氏係數的提升更是顯著。根據量測的結果，當所加入的奈米鑽石粒徑從 350nm
減至 50nm，其各所形成的複材楊氏係數相較於純電鍍鎳約有 4.6%與 13.6%的提
升。但是，電鍍鎳基材也因為奈米鑽石顆粒的添加，而降低材料本身的延性，進
而造成複材疲勞強度的輕微衰減。然而，當所加入的奈米鑽石粒徑從 350nm 減
至 50nm，奈米鑽石顆粒則可以更有效地阻止差排運動；特別是在低應力的循環
負載下，電鍍鎳-鑽奈米複材具有可以和電鍍鎳相比的疲勞壽命，不會因為奈米
鑽石的添加而明顯降低複材的疲勞強度。根據疲勞量測的 S-N 曲線結果，電鍍
鎳的疲勞強度為 2.41GPa，而電鍍鎳-鑽奈米複材於 350nm 和 50nm 不同粒徑的
添加下，其疲勞強度分別為 2.18GPa 和 2.40GPa。最後，在懸浮式微機電元件製
作上，發現結構容易形成翹曲，主要為電鍍過程中生成的應力梯度所造成。藉由
調整電流密度來降低鍍層的應力梯度，當電流密度由 15.3 降至 0.8 mA cm-2，對
於鎳與鎳-鑽奈米複材分別可降低 45%與 27%的應力梯度，可應用於製作無翹曲
的微機電元件。根據楊氏係數提升的特性，將電鍍鎳-鑽奈米複材應用於梳狀共
振器的製作，以 125nm 的鑽石奈米顆粒，添加濃度為 2 g L-1 為例，可提升 14%
共振頻率；除此之外，共振器的品質因數也隨之提升。此特性大幅提升鎳基奈米
複合材料於微機電元件上的應用的可能性，特別是射頻微機電元件。 
 
關鍵詞：奈米複材，電鍍，鎳，奈米鑽石粒子，熱膨脹係數，楊氏係數，疲勞，
應力梯度，梳狀共振器，共振頻率 
 
英文摘要： 
In this project, a low-temperature electroplated Ni process with the addition of 
 4 
particles (2 g L
-1
) can be enhanced 14% resonant frequency.  Furthermore, the 
quality factor also increases.  The property enhancements have led such electroplated 
Ni-based nanocomposite films for more MEMS applications, especially in RF MEMS. 
 
Key words：Nanocomposite, Electroplating, Ni, Nano diamond particle, CTE, 
Young’s modulus, Fatigue, Stress gradient, comb resonator, resonant frequency 
 
報告內容： 
Part I 
1. Introduction 
Electro-deposition has been a manifest process technique for cost-effective 
MEMS (microelectromechanical systems) fabrication.  This technique provides 
several advantages including flexible material choice, low temperature CMOS 
compatible process, and high manufacturing throughput.  For instance, electroplated 
Ni can have comparable mechanical properties with poly-silicon but even lower 
electrical and thermal resistivity, lower processing temperature, and higher deposition 
rate.  Since 1988, lots of research works have been done in the electroplated Ni for 
MEMS fabrication and application [1-6]. 
Recently, the nanotechnology has further advanced the electroplating technique 
in terms of material property enhancement for various MEMS applications.  
Combining with the strengthening and size effects originated from the incorporation 
of well distributed nano-particles like diamond, SiC, Al2O3, and Si3N4 [7-12], 
electroplated metal-nanocomposite can exhibit superior physical properties beyond 
the limits of intrinsic metal.  Teh et al. [10] have shown Ni-based nanocomposite 
synthesis method for MEMS devices fabrication.  Huang et al. [11] have 
demonstrated a low power magnetic microactuator using Cu-Ni nanocomposite as the 
inductive coil material.  For electro-thermal microactuator application, Tsai et al. [12] 
have shown that the microactuator made of Ni-diamond nanocomposite can reduce 
73% power requirement of pure Ni one needed for the same output displacement of 3 
m and enlarge the reversible displacement range from 1.8 to 3 m, simultaneously.  
The performance enhancements are resulted by the augment of coefficient of thermal 
expansion (CTE) and hardness of Ni via the nano-diamond particle incorporation.  
Thus, employing the nanocomposites synthesized by electro-deposition process for 
MEMS fabrication has revealed its excellent prospect. 
This presented work will investigate nano-particle size and composite effects on 
the modification of material properties of electroplated Ni.  Via the understanding of 
the correlation, such a Ni-based nanocomposite provides an alternative research 
direction in the future development of MEMS fabrication using nanocomposites. 
 6 
Concentration of SiO2 nano-particle (g/L) 0.008, 0.018, 0.036 
Average diameter of SiO2 nano-particle (nm) 80 
pH 4.1 ~ 4.3 
Current density (mA/cm
2
) 10 
Temperature (C) 50 
 
As shown in Fig. 1, all device fabrication starts with a silicon wafer with 0.5 m 
thick SiO2 deposition followed by 2 m thick FH-6400 photoresist (PR) coating.  
The PR is then patterned and hard baked as sacrificial layer.  Then, a layer of 1000 Å  
Cu/100 Å  Ti is sputtered as plating seed layer followed by another 8 m thick 
AZP-4620 PR coating that is patterned as an electroplating mold.  After that, Ni or 
Ni-based nanocomposite films are electroplated at 50 C to form the cantilever beams.  
Finally, the fabricated cantilever beams are released after stripping the sacrificial layer 
by acetone solution.  Fig. 2 shows the SEM micrographs of as-fabricated cantilever 
beams made of Ni-diamond and Ni-SiO2 nanocomposites, respectively. 
 
 
Fig. 1. Fabrication process of Ni-based cantilever beam. 
 
   
(a)        (b) 
Fig. 2. SEM pictures of fabricated cantilever beams made of: (a) Ni-diamond (average 
diameter 50 nm, 2 g/L), and (b) Ni-SiO2 (average diameter 80 nm, 0.036 g/L) 
nanocomposites. 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
Si SiO2 FH-6400 PR Ti/Cu 
Ni or Ni-based nanocomposite AZP-4620 PR 
 8 
 
    
(a)         (b) 
Fig. 4. EDS spectrums of (a) Ni-SiO2 nanocomposite (0.036 g/L) and (b) pure 
electroplated nickel. 
 
3.2 CTE and Young’s modulus characterizations 
In the experiment, material CTE properties are investigated by measuring the 
elongation of cantilever beams made of electroplated Ni or Ni-based nanocomposite 
in a heating chamber at 400 C.  Fig. 5 compares the CTE properties of pure 
electroplated Ni and Ni-diamond nanocomposites with different concentrations and 
sizes of incorporated particles.  Experiment results show that the CTE of 
Ni-diamond nanocomposites is higher than that of pure electroplated Ni (23 ×10
-6
/C 
as measured) and increases with the concentration of incorporated nano-diamond.  
For the nanocomposites plated in a bath with 125 nm nano-diamonds, the CTE values 
increase from the 34.5 ×10
-6
/C to 40.2 ×10-6/C while the nano-diamond 
concentration in the bath increase from 1 to 2 g/L.  Furthermore, more than two 
times enlargement of CTE value of Ni-diamond nanocomposite in average diameter 
350 nm with the concentration of 2 g/L than pure electroplated Ni.  However, with 
the reduction of the particle size of nano-diamond, the CTE values are found to 
decrease from 50 ×10
-6
/C of the composite synthesized with the nano-diamonds of 
average diameter 350 nm down to 38 ×10
-6
/C of that with the nano-diamonds of 
average diameter 50 nm.  In contrast to nano-diamond particle, the CTE value 
decreases with the concentration of SiO2 nano-particles in the plating bath from 22 
×10
-6
/C of 0.008 g/L to 18 ×10-6/C of 0.036 g/L. 
 
 10 
based on the rules of mixture [14].  It also explains that the modulus of Ni-SiO2 
nanocomposite decreases with the increase of SiO2 concentration due to the lower 
Young’s modulus of SiO2 particle (~70 GPa [15]) relative to pure electroplated Ni.  
Being with the SiO2 particle concentration of 0.036 g/L, the Young’s modulus of the 
Ni-SiO2 nanocomposite has been lowered down to 180 GPa. 
 
 
Fig. 6. Comparison of Young’s modulus between pure electroplated Ni and Ni-based 
nanocomposites including Ni-diamond and Ni-SiO2 with different particle sizes and 
concentrations. 
 
3.3 Nanocomposite effects 
As mentioned, although the incorporation of diamond particles in Ni matrix can 
augment CTE and Young’s modulus parameters, the simple rule of mixture used for 
explaining conventional composite material’s behavior [16-18] could not well 
qualitatively and quantitatively explain the discrepancy between the model prediction 
and the measurement results. 
 
 12 
 
Fig. 8. The XRD patterns at room temperature for the as-fabricated pure Ni, 
Ni-diamond, and Ni-SiO2 nanocomposites. 
 
Fig. 8 shows the XRD patterns at room temperature for the as-fabricated pure Ni 
and Ni-based nanocomposites, respectively.  The face-centered-cubic (FCC) texture 
of electroplated pure Ni and Ni-based nanocomposites have been observed with (111) 
preferred orientation of grain structure.  From the comparison of peak-position 
between electroplated pure Ni and Ni-based nanocomposite, the residual stress types 
of Ni-diamond and Ni-SiO2 nanocomposites can be determined easily by the variation 
of the lattice spacing as the following equation [20]:  
0
0'
d
dd 
               
 (2) 
where 0d  is the lattice spacing of stress-free material, and 'd  is that for strained 
material.  If we assume that pure electroplated Ni is stress-free material, and 
Ni-diamond and Ni-SiO2 nanocomposites are strained materials.  The strains of 
Ni-diamond and Ni-SiO2 nanocomposites can be determined as -0.15% and 0.09%, 
respectively, from Eq. (2).  Meanwhile, it can be obtained that the incorporation of 
nano-diamond particles in Ni causes compressive strain in nanocomposite, and the 
incorporation of SiO2 nano-particles in Ni causes tensile strain in nanocomposite.  
Thus, residual compressive stress type is observed in Ni-diamond nanocomposite with 
CTE enhancement.  Oppositely, residual tensile stress type is observed in Ni-SiO2 
nanocomposite with CTE diminution.  This result can also be found from the past 
research [21].  To further investigate the residual stress types resulted by the 
co-deposition of nano-particles with Ni, TEM analysis of crystalline texture is 
performed. 
 14 
boundary regions into Ni grains as shown in Fig. 9b.  Similarly, the intra-distribution 
of nano-particles in Ni grains is also observed on Ni-SiO2 nanocomposite in Fig. 9c.  
As carried before, the CTE value of Ni-based nanocomposite comparing to Ni matrix 
would decrease due to the size reduction of adding diamond and different particle type 
like SiO2.  From the TEM analysis of crystalline texture in Fig. 9b and 9c, it is 
observed that the common point between diamond and SiO2 nano-particles is 
intra-grain distribution.  This intra-grain distribution of nano-particles will cause the 
residual tensile stresses inside Ni grains which decrease the CTE value of Ni-based 
nanocomposite.  Oppositely, as shown in TEM analysis of Fig. 9a the inter-grain 
distribution of nano-particles will cause the residual compressive stresses inside Ni 
grains which increase the CTE value of Ni-based nanocomposite. 
 
4. Conclusions 
This paper reveals several new composite effects on the material property 
modification, especially on CTE, based on the incorporation of diamond or SiO2 
nano-particles into Ni matrix by low-temperature electrodeposited process.  Through 
a simple composite-plating process, material properties can be modified easily in the 
expected way.  In addition, electrodeposited Ni-based nanocomposites are 
compatibility with MEMS and CMOS fabrication technologies via a one-step, 
selective on-chip deposition process at low temperatures.  These Ni-based 
nanocomposites are not only attractive for performance modification on CTE and 
Young’s modulus but also may provide an alternative direction in the development of 
other MEMS devices using nanocomposites. 
 
Reference 
[1] W. Ehrfeld, F. Götze, D. Münchmeyer, W. Schelb, and D. Schmidt, ―LIGA process: 
Sensor construction techniques via X-ray lithography,‖ in Technical Digest, IEEE 
Solid-State Sensor and Actuator Workshop, Hilton Head, SC, pp. 1–4, 1988. 
[2] S. Furukawa, S. Roy, H. Miyajima, Y. Uenishi, and M. Mehregany, “Nickel 
surface micromachning,‖ in Proc. IEEE Microstructures and Microfabricated 
Systems, San Francisco, CA, pp. 38–46, 1994. 
[3] Q. Shi, S.C. Chang, M.W. Putty, and D.B. Hicks, ―Characterization of 
electroformed nickel microstructures,‖ in Proc. SPIE, vol. 2639, pp. 191–199, 
1995. 
[4] P.M. Zavracky, S. Majumber, and E. McGruer, ―Micromechanical switches 
fabricated using nickel surface micromachining,‖ J. Microelectromech. Syst., vol. 
6, no. 1, pp. 3–9, 1997. 
[5] C.P. Hsu, W.C. Tai, and W. Hsu, ―Design and analysis of an electrothermally 
 16 
[20] K.Tanaka and Y. Akiniwa, ―Diffraction measurements of residual macrostress 
and microstress using X-rays, synchrotron and neutrons,‖ JSME Int. J. Ser. A, vol. 
47, pp. 252-263, 2004. 
[21] W. Fang and C.Y. Lo, ―On the thermal expansion coefficients of thin films,‖ 
Sensor. Actuat. A, vol. 84, pp.310-314, 2000. 
 
Part II 
1. Introduction 
Previously, we have reported that the electrolytic Ni matrix with the 
incorporation of nano-diamonds could exhibit higher Young’s modulus and 
coefficient of thermal expansion (CTE) [1, 2].  Via the property modification based 
on the nanocomposite effects, MEMS devices made of the nanocomposite can have 
superior performance.  For example, electro-thermal microactuator made of the 
nanocomposite can have lower power, larger output force, and ultimate elongation in 
comparison with the one made of pure electroplated Ni due to the Young’s modulus 
and CTE enhancement of structural material.  Micro-resonator made of the 
nanocomposite can increase its resonance frequency and make itself practical for 
electro-mechanical signal processing application to RF system [3].  Therefore, the 
investigation of fatigue property of the electroplated Ni-diamond nanocomposite is 
essential for the potential application in the fabrication of microelectromechanical 
systems (MEMS), where moving components are subjected to cyclic load. 
To date, a variety of testing methods have been proposed for the fatigue 
characterization of microsized material.  Among these methods, tension and bending 
tests are two popular testing schemes.  Tension method [4, 5] can extract Young’s 
modulus and fracture strength directly from the measured stress-stain curve.  
However, once the sample becomes very small only with several millimeters [6], the 
setup requirements for gripping, aligning, and pulling a tested sample become 
stringent to the method.  In comparison with the tension method, bending method [7, 
8] can be free of the issues raised by sample gripping and alignment.  Furthermore, 
bending test only requires smaller loading force than that of tension test to yield tested 
sample with a deformation large enough for accurate measurement, which makes the 
method suitable for thin film characterization.  Thus, in this study, a fatigue 
characterization scheme based on the bending-test design is proposed and utilized for 
the property investigation of the Ni-based nanocomposite in terms of Young’s 
modulus, fatigue life, fatigue strength, and fracture mechanism. 
 
2. Experimental setup and test sample design 
Fig. 1 shows the scheme of the bending-fatigue test where microsized 
 18 
 
Fig. 2. Illustration of microsized cantilever-beam specimen. 
 
The microsized cantilever-beam specimens are fabricated on a silicon substrate 
as shown in Fig. 3.  Initially, the Ti adhesion layer (200Å  thick) and Cu seed layer 
(1000Å  thick) are sputtered respectively onto the cleaned silicon wafer.  Then, the 
20m thick AZP-4620 photoresister (PR) is spin coated and patterned to form the 
plating molds of microsized cantilever-beam specimens (Fig. 3(a)).  Subsequently, 
the electroplated Ni-based material is deposited to construct the microsized 
cantilever-beam specimens (Fig. 3(b)).  Table 1 shows the plating bath conditions of 
electroplated Ni-based materials of pure Ni and Ni-diamond nanocomposites.  For 
the composite-plating of Ni-diamond nanocomposites which are different from pure 
electroplated Ni, the nano-diamond particles with the average particle-diameters of 
350nm and 50nm are added respectively into the different plating baths of 
sulfuric-based Ni for the co-deposition.  And the concentrations of nano-diamond 
particles in plating baths are all kept at 2g/L.  Finally, the fabricated cantilever-beam 
specimens are released after stripping the plating molds by acetone solution (Fig. 
3(c)), which is followed by the removal of silicon underneath using KOH solution 
(Fig. 3(d)). 
 
 
Fig. 3. Fabrication process of microsized cantilever-beam specimen. 
 
AZP-4620 PR Si Ti/Cu Ni or Ni-diamond 
(a) 
  
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
Contact 
hole 
w 
t 
50 m 
130 m 
 20 
  
 
(a)      (b)      (c) 
Fig. 4. SEM pictures of as-electroplated cantilever-beam specimens made of: (a) Ni; 
(b) Ni-diamond nanocomposite with average particle-diameter of 350nm; (c) 
Ni-diamond nanocomposite with average particle-diameter of 50nm. 
 
3. Measurements and results 
3.1 Static bending test 
Before the test of fatigue lifetime, a static bending test is performed on 
as-fabricated cantilever nanocomposite beams to determine fatigue-test conditions.  
Firstly, a tungsten probe tip connected to the test machine is precisely placed at the 
contact hole of the beams, and the loading force applied by the probe to the beam is 
measured by a load cell connected to the computer.  The tested beam is then 
gradually deflected by the probe-tip from 0 to 50m with a displacement step of 2m.  
Thus, the loading force versus corresponding displacement can be recorded by the 
load cell as shown in Fig. 5, which is force-displacement (F-) curve.  As the 
fatigue-test condition in this study, the maximum displacement loading (max) range is 
determined by the proportional limit of F- curve.  In this range, the force is 
proportional to the specimen defection.  As shown in Fig. 5, the max are determined 
as 18m, 22m, and 18m for the electroplated Ni beam and the Ni-diamond 
nanocomposite beams where the average particle-diameters of nano-diamonds are 
350nm and 50nm, respectively. 
 
 22 
electroplated Ni and Ni-diamond nanocomposites with the average particle-diameter 
of 350nm and 50nm, respectively.  To further examine the derived Young’s modulus 
values from FEA, the analyzed Young’s modulus values of the electroplated films and 
the resonant frequencies of the tested beams are also compared with the data 
measured by nanoindenter [12] and LDV resonant frequency measurement method 
[13], respectively.  Table 2 lists the measured Young’s modulus values from 
nanoindenter and resonance methods which well agree with the results of FEA.  It is 
noted that Ni-diamond nanocomposites with the average particle-diameters of 350nm 
and 50nm both have Young’s modulus values which are about 4.6% and 13.6% larger 
than that of pure electroplated Ni, respectively. 
 
Table 2. Young’s modulus values of the electroplated films of Ni and Ni-diamond 
nanocomposites measured by FEA, nanoindenter, and resonance methods. 
 FEA Nanoindenter Resonance 
Ni 156.9GPa 156.75GPa 158.12GPa 
Ni-diamond (avg. dia. 350 nm) 165.9GPa 164.05GPa 163.32GPa 
Ni-diamond (avg. dia. 50 nm) 178.2GPa 178.05GPa 178.22GPa 
 
 
Fig. 6. S-N curve of microsized cantilever-beam specimens made of the electroplated 
Ni and Ni-diamond nanocomposites from the fatigue life tests. 
 
3.3 Fatigue-lifetime test 
As aforementioned in Section 2, the fatigue-lifetime test of the beams made of 
electroplated Ni and Ni-diamond composites are performed using a micro-probe 
 24 
 
  
 
(a)      (b)      (c) 
Fig. 8. SEM pictures of electroplated specimen appearance after fatigue fracture: (a) 
Ni; (b) Ni-diamond nanocomposite with average particle-diameter of 350nm; (c) 
Ni-diamond nanocomposite with average particle-diameter of 50nm. 
 
4. Discussions 
Fatigue of ductile material is generally attributed to cyclic plastic deformation 
involving dislocation motion.  The motion would result in the alternating, blunting, 
re-sharpening, and advancing of a crack tip in a material [17].  From the FEA 
calculated stress distribution in Fig. 7, it can be found that the maximum stress value 
is concentrated at the root-corner of cantilever beam.  Under cyclic stress loading, 
crack tip will occur initially at the stress-concentrated zone such as the root-corner of 
specimen, as shown in Fig. 9(a).  Then, the cracks will grow from two ends of the 
root-corner of specimen (Fig. 9(b)).  Finally, the beam will fracture as soon as two 
ends meet together (Fig. 9(c)).  Fig. 10 shows the SEM picture of fatigue fracture 
interface of Ni-based beam.  The cup-cone fracture morphology is a typical ductile 
characteristic of metal-based material.  Fig. 6 has shown that electroplated 
Ni-diamond nanocomposites have slightly smaller fatigue lifetime than that of pure 
electroplated Ni especially for larger size particles.  It can be attributed to the 
ductility reduction by incorporation of second-phase particles.  As shown in Fig. 
10(a) and 10(b) which are the fatigue fracture interface of the pure Ni and the 
Ni-diamond nanocomposite with the average particle-diameter of 350nm, respectively, 
the cup-cone has been become finer and the interface morphology has become toward 
to brittle fracture.  In the nanocomposite system, nano-diamond is a source to 
generate dislocation but also a barrier to block dislocation motion because of the high 
 26 
electroplated Ni (~156.7GPa as measured).  According to the rule-of-mixtures 
equations [19, 20], the Young’s modulus of the composite could be estimated as the 
one just falling between the upper and lower bounds as follows: 
Upper bound based on the assumption that two phases in a composite are arranged in 
parallel, 
ppmmc VEVEE parallel,             
 (2) 
and lower bound based on the assumption of two in-series phases, 
mppm
pm
c
VEVE
EE
E

series,             
 (3) 
where E and V denote the Young’s modulus and volume fraction, respectively, and the 
subscripts of c, m, and p represent composite, matrix, and particle phases.  From Eq. 
(2) and (3), the calculated upper and lower bound values of Young’s modulus are 
157.2GPa and 160.0GPa for the electroplated Ni-diamond nanocomposites with the 
average particle-diameter of 350nm, and 157.3GPa and 160.6GPa for the composite 
one with the average particle-diameter of 50nm, respectively.  Therefore, 
electroplated Ni-diamond nanocomposites will be expected to have a higher Young’s 
modulus value based on the rule-of-mixtures.  These calculated Young’s modulus 
values are quite close to the values derived by different methods as listed in Table 2.  
Nevertheless, it is noted that, the Young’s modulus of electroplated Ni-diamond 
nanocomposite with the average particle-diameter of 50nm has the largest value. 
Previous researches [21-23] have observed that the decrease of particle size can 
have composite materials gain the largest strengthening and hardening effects which 
also result in the increases of fatigue lifetime and strength.  Under the same volume 
fraction, more and more nano-particles will be introduced in the composite system 
with a decrease in the grain size of secondary phase.  It could complicate the grain 
boundary system of the composite with different sliding systems which would hinder 
dislocation motion, make structure hardened, and prevent crack growth.  In fact, the 
strengthening will be especially pronounced in the high cycle fatigue test with the low 
stress amplitude, as shown in Fig. 6.  As the cyclic-loaded-stress amplitude being 
reduced, the fatigue lifetime of the electroplated Ni-diamond nanocomposite with 
small particle size of 50nm will approach gradually to the one of pure electroplated Ni.  
It is because small particle size means dislocations could still cut through or bypass 
the secondary phase under low cyclic loaded.  The cutting through or by-passing 
behavior will make the fracture more behave like ductile even though the secondary 
 28 
Microelectromech. Syst. 15 (2006) pp. 149-158. 
[2]  L.N. Tsai, Y.T. Cheng, W. Hsu, Nanocomposite Effects on the of Thermal 
Expansion Modification for High Performance Electro-Thermal Microactuator, in: 
Proceeding of IEEE MEMS’05, Miami, Florida, U.S.A., 2005, pp. 467-470. 
[3]  Y.C. Lee, L.N. Tsai, Y.T. Cheng, W. Hsu, Performance enhancement of comb 
drive actuators utilizing electroplated nickel-diamond nanocomposite, in: 
Proceeding of Asia-Pacific Conference of Transducers and Micro-Nano 
Technology (APCOT), Singapore, 2006. 
[4] H.S. Cho, K.J. Hemker, K. Lian, J. Goettert, G. Dirras, Measured mechanical 
properties of LIGA Ni structures, Sensors and actuators A 103 (2003) pp. 59-63. 
[5] D. Son, J. Kim, T.W. Lim, D. Kwon, Evaluation of fatigue strength of LIGA 
nickel film by microtensile tests, Scr. Mater. 50 (2004) pp. 1265-1269. 
[6] T. Yi, C.J. Kim, Measurement of mechanical properties for MEMS materials, 
Meas. Sci. Technol. 10 (1999) pp. 706-716. 
[7] S. Maekawa, K. Takashima, M. Shimojo, Y. Higo, S. Sugiura, B. Pfister, M.V. 
Swain, Fatigue Tests of Ni-P Amorphous Alloy Microcantilever Beams, Jpn. J. 
Appl. Phys. 38 (1999) pp. 7194-7198. 
[8] S. Johansson, J.Å . Schweitz, L. Tenerz, J. Tirén, Fracture testing of silicon 
microelements in situ in a scanning electron microscope, J. Appl. Phys. 63 (1988) 
pp. 4799-4803. 
[9] H.K. Liu, B.J. Lee, P.P. Liu, Low cycle fatigue of single crystal silicon thin films, 
Sensors and Actuators A 140 (2007) pp. 257-265. 
[10] C.J. Wilson, A. Ormeggi, M. Narbutovskih, Fracture testing of silicon 
microcantilever beams, J. Appl. Phys. 79 (1996) pp. 2386-2393. 
[11] C. Hsu, C. Tsou, W. Fang, Measuring thin film elastic modulus using a 
micromachined cantilever bending test by nanoindenter, J. Micro/Nanolith. MEMS 
MOEMS 6 (2007) pp. 033011. 
[12] A.C. Fischer-Cripps, Nanoindentation, Springer, New York, 1st edn., 2002, pp. 
27-30. 
[13] L. Kiesewetter, J.M. Zhang, D. Houdeau, A. Steckenborn, Determination of 
Young's moduli of micromechanical thin films using the resonance method, 
Sensors and Actuators A 35 (1992) pp. 153-159. 
[14] K.P. Larsen, A.A. Rasmussen, J.T. Ravnkilde, M. Ginnerup, O. Hansen, MEMS 
device for bending test measurements of fatigue and creep of electroplated nickel, 
Sensors and Actuators A 103 (2003) pp. 156-164. 
[15] S.M. Allameh, P. Shrotriya, A. Butterwick, S.B. Brown, W.O. Soboyejo, Surface 
topography evolution and fatigue fracture in polysilicon MEMS structures, J. 
Microelectromech. Syst. 12 (2003) pp. 313-324. 
 30 
the physical properties of Ni can be further reinforced by incorporating a secondary material 
such as Al2O3, SiC, SiO2, diamond and CNT (Carbon Nanotube) within itself [12-15].  
Previously, we reported a simple process by adding diamond or CNT nanoparticles into an 
electroplating bath to fabricate Ni-based nanocomposite electrothermal microactuators [16, 
17].  With appropriate incorporation of the secondary phase, such as diamond or CNT 
nanoparticles, the nanocomposite actuator can have superior performance including lower 
power consumption and larger output displacement due to the increase of Young’s modulus, 
hardness and CTE (coefficient of thermal expansion) even without sacrificing its intrinsic 
mechanical reliability [16, 18].  The property enhancements have led such electroplated 
Ni-based nanocomposite films for more MEMS applications, especially in RF MEMS like the 
fabrication of MEMS switch, resonator and filter components. 
Nevertheless, as-electroplated Ni film is usually accompanied with residual stress which 
would cause significant undesired structural deformation like beam curling and membrane 
winkling in suspended Ni-based MEMS devices.  Because of the deformed structures, the 
Ni-based MEMS device must suffer either the problem of performance mismatch like 
capacitance mismatch [17, 18] or the problem of performance degradation while the device 
structure is made stiffer than the original design [19].  So far, it is still a critical research 
topic to solve the curling phenomenon in electroplated Ni structures for future MEMS 
applications.  Compensation design based on the pre-characterization of Ni film to predict its 
residual stress level is a commonly used technique to resolve the issue [20].  Since residual 
stress problem would become more severe in the Ni-based nanocomposite film while the 
electroplated Ni film contains the residual stress [14], design flexibility would be limited and 
alternative approach to resolve the problem is still required. 
In general, the residual stress of thin film can be expressed as follows [22], 
k
k
k
h
z
z 





 

 2
)(
0
                              (1) 
where z ϵ (-h/2, h/2) is the coordinate across the film thickness.  For simplicity, the 
high-order (k＞2) terms are neglected and the expression can be modified as follows, 
z
h
z
2
)( 10

                                (2) 
In the expression, the residual stress can be divided into two types of stresses which are mean 
stress (σ0) and gradient stress (σ1) respectively.  Basically, the curl phenomenon is caused by 
the existence of gradient stress in an as-electroplated Ni film.  The mean stress in 
electroplated Ni film has been well studied and shown that it would be a function of plating 
temperature, current density, and additives of electrolyte [23-25].  On the contrary, the 
gradient has not been investigated systemically and only plating temperature was identified as 
a key process parameter to reduce it so far.  High plating temperature can lead to the gradient 
 32 
curled either upward (positive) or downward (negative).  For our case, both Ni and 
Ni-diamond nanocomposites are subjected to a negative gradient stress. 
 
Figure 1. SEM photograph of Ni (comb-driven) micromechanical resonator with high 
gradient stress. 
 
 
Figure 2. The states of cantilever beam before and after structural release (both 
Ni/Ni-diamond nanocomposite cantilever beams tend to warp downward). 
 
The stress gradient, Γ, can be approximately estimated in a linear distribution and 
expressed as follows [21, 22, 30], 

 1
1
2 1 









E
hh
                          (3) 
E and ν are the Young’s modulus and Poisson ratio of Ni film, respectively, and ρ is the radius 
of beam curvature.  Thus, the surface profile and the curvature of cantilever will be measured 
by White-Light-Interferometer (FOGALE nanotech Inc.) and used for the characterization of 
the gradient stress of the electroplated Ni and Ni-diamond nanocomposite films. 
 
4. Fabrication process 
 34 
resonators as shown in Fig. 4(a).  The MMA combines microscopy and stroboscopic 
illumination to analyze the periodical motions of microstructures.  The resonator is driven by 
the function generator of the MMA.  The Vbias (from 60 to 120 V) and Vi (from 2 to 10 V) are 
applied on the resonating structure and fix comb-electrode part respectively as shown in Fig. 
4(b) and the motion images at different frequency can be captured by the optical system of the 
MMA.  Inset pictures 1-3 show the relative motion of comb-fingers on the resonator in the 
state of released, middle stroked, and pulled, respectively, as shown in Fig. 4(c).  According 
to the image data captured at different frequency, the frequency response of the -resonator 
with different vibrating amplitude can be obtained. 
 
Figure 4. The measurement setup. (a)MEMS motion analyzer. (b) Comb resonator is electric 
driven and the response is measured by (c) optical motion analysis system. 
 
6. Results and Discussion 
    Figure 5 shows the relation between plating current versus the stress gradient and 
deposition rate of electroplated Ni and Ni-diamond nanocomposite films.  Although the 
deposition rate of Ni and Ni-diamond nanocomposite film increases with the increase of 
plating current density, it is inevitable to have a warped structure plated with high current 
density owing to large gradient stress.  In addition, Ni-diamond nanocomposite film has 
higher gradient stress than the Ni one.  For the same current density, the gradient stress of 
Ni-diamond nanocomposite film is about 1.3 times larger than that of Ni film.  By lowering 
plating current density form 15.3 to 0.8 mA cm
-2
, the stress gradient can have 45% and 27% 
reduction for Ni and Ni-diamond nanocomposite respectively.   
        
 36 
 
Figure 6. FIB cross sectional images of Ni films electroplated at (a) 15.3 mA cm
-2
 and (b) 0.8 
mA cm
-2
 and (c) Ni-diamond at 0.8 mA cm
-2
. 
 
The origin of the gradient stress can be further illustrated by the grain boundary 
relaxation model [27-29].  The residual stress is induced by the physical energy difference 
between the surface energy and the grain boundary energy in grain growth [27], 











1)(
)(
E
zG
z                             (4) 
δ and G(z) are the shrinkage of the grain boundary and the grain size respectively.  In our 
case, the electroplated Ni plated with a high current density condition exhibits the 
non-uniform grain size distribution as aforementioned.  The stresses in the electroplated Ni 
film would, therefore, decrease when the film gets thicker and the film would tend to form 
warpage.  Considering a thin film with the thickness of h, the stress gradient (Γ) of the film 
can be derived and expressed as follows by substituting (4) into (3), 
)()(
1
1 01 zGzGh
GE
h









                     (5) 
where z0 and z1 are the location at the bottom and top surface of the film, respectively.  In 
this expression, it shows the correlation of gradient stress with the grain size variation (G) 
and grain size (G(z)).  With lower plating current density, the film can have larger and 
uniformly distributed grain size which can effectively result in a lower gradient stress.  
Figure 7 shows the SEM photographs of Ni (Fig. 7(a)) and Ni-diamond nanocomposite 
resonators (Fig. 7(b)) electroplated at 0.8 mA cm
-2
.  There is indeed no noticeable warpage 
 38 
compressive stress [14], it may cause the increase of Ni Young’s modulus so that the 
Young’s modulus of the nanocomposite can be enhanced.  Meanwhile, the resonant 
frequency enhancement can be possibly attributed to more nano-diamond incorporation in the 
supporting beams of the comb-driven resonators due to limited beam width.  Further 
investigation regarding the stress effect on the mechanical property change in the Ni matrix 
and the geometrical effect of plating mold on the incorporation of nano-diamond in the 
composite film are, therefore, required for potential MEMS applications. 
 
Figure 8. Frequency responses of Ni and Ni-diamond nancomposite comb resonators at 
atmospheric pressure. 
 
 
Figure 9. Incorporated diamond volume percentage in the nanocomposite with different 
diamond concentrations in electrolyte. 
 40 
Medicine and Biology Society Conference on Neural Engineering (Kohala Coast, HI) 
65-68 
[9] Cohen A, Zhang G, Tseng F G, Frodis U, Mansfeld F and Will P 1999 EFAB: rapid, 
low-cost desktop micromachining of high aspect ratio true 3-D MEMS Proc.IEEE Int. 
Conf. Micro Electro Mech. Syst. 244–251. 
[10] Kataoka K, Itoh T, Suga T and Inoue K 2004 Contact properties of Ni micro-springs for 
MEMS probe card Proc. 50th IEEE Holm Conf. Elect. Contacts 231-235 
[11] Alper S E, Ocak I E and Akin T 2007 Ultrathick and high-aspect-ratio nickel 
microgyroscope using EFAB multilayer additive electroforming J. Microelectromech. 
Syst. 16 1025-1035 
[12] Kuo S L, Chen Y C, Ger M D and Hwu W H 2004 Nano-particles dispersion effect on 
Ni/Al2O3 composite coatings Materials Chemistry and Physics 86 5–10 
[13] Orlovskaja L, Periene N, Kurtinaitiene M and Surviliene S 1999 Ni–SiC composite 
plated under a modulated current, Surface and Coatings Technology 111 234–239 
[14] Teh K S, Cheng Y-T and Lin L 2005 MEMS fabrication based on nickel-nanocomposite: 
film deposition and characterization J. Micromech. Microeng. 15 2205–2215 
[15] Chao T-Y, Shen G-R and Cheng Y-T 2006 Comparative study of Ni–P–diamond and 
Ni–P–CNT nanocomposite films J. Electrochem. Soc. 153 G98-G104 
[16] Tsai L-N, Cheng Y T, Hsu W and Fang W 2006 Ni-carbon nanotubes nanocomposite for 
robust microelectromechanical systems fabrication J. Vac. Sci. Tech.24 205-210 
[17] Huang C-S, Chung J, Cheng Y-T and Hsu W 2009 Investigation of Ni-based thermal 
bimaterial structure for sensor and actuator application Sensors and Actuators A 149 
298-304 
[18] Tsai L-N, Shen G-R, Cheng Y-T and Hsu W 2006 Performance improvement of an 
electrothermal microactuator fabricated using Ni-diamond nanocomposite, J. 
Microelectromech. Syst. 15 149-158 
[19] Pacheco S P, Katehi L P B and Nguyen C T-C 2000 Design of low actuation voltage RF 
MEMS switch IEEE MTT-S Int. Microwave Symp. Dig. 1 165-168 
[20] Peroulis D, Pacheco S, Sarabandi K and Katehi L P B 2001 Alleviating the adverse stress 
effects of residual stress in RF MEMS switches Proc. Eur. Microwave Conf. 1 173-176 
[21] Hea S, Chang J S, Li L and Ho H 2009 Characterization of Young’s modulus and 
residual stress gradient of MetalMUMPs electroplated nickel film Sensors and Actuators 
A 154 149–156. 
[22] Fang W and Wickert J A 1996 Determining mean and gradient residual stresses in thin 
films using micromachined cantilevers J. Micromech. Microeng. 6 301–309 
[23] Hearne S J and Floro J A 2005 Mechanisms inducing compressive stress during 
electrodeposition of Ni J. Appl. Phys. 97 014901 
[24] Luo J K, Pritschow M, Flewitt A J, Spearing S M, Fleck N A and Milne W I 2006 Effect 
參加國際會議報告 
會議名稱：The 16th International Conference on Solid-State Sensors, 
Actuators and Microsystems (IEEE Transducers 2011) 
時間：2011 年 6 月 05 日 至 6 月 09 日 
地點：中國大陸〃北京  
發表論文題目：A robust micro mechanical-latch shock switch with low contact 
resistance. 
報告人：交通大學機械系〃徐文祥教授、博士生謝一全 
 
一、會議內容 
IEEE Transducers 是一於機電系統領域相當著名的大型國際會議。分別於美
洲、歐洲、亞洲輪流舉辦，其舉辦的時間為西元奇數年，即每隔兩年舉辦一次，
今年舉辦之第 16 屆會議恰逢 IEEE Transducers 30 周年慶。此屆，第 16 屆國際固
態感測器、致動器、微系統會議(IEEE Transducers 2011)於中國大陸北京舉辦，
為期五天(2011 年 6 月 5~9 日)。 
北京是中國歷史上著名的古都，其作為城市的歷史可追溯到 3000 年前，秦
漢以後北京地區皆為北方重鎮，且元明清三朝都城均建立於北京。北京位於華北
大平原的西北方，南接大平原、西臨黃土高原、北接內蒙高原、東南方面臨渤海，
但近年來因氣候變遷等因素，北方沙漠化區域離北京地區只餘 70~80 多公里，故
這幾年北京遭受沙塵暴侵襲的影響逐漸加劇。 
IEEE Transducers，此一會議集合了世界先進的技術與最新研究成果，並提
供專業資訊交流平台，供世界各地學者、研究人員於此相關領域發表、交換研究
心得和切磋技術。根據此屆大會的統計，其總投稿數約為 1652 篇，錄取率約為
45%，其中 214 篇為口頭演說(Oral)，528 篇為海報發表(Poster)。以相關領域的
國際型會議而言，此一會議的錄取率相當低，因此能被錄取的論文都相當的優
秀。很榮幸地，我們的研究受到大會的肯定，也感謝國科會提供經費，讓我們能
參如此優秀、高水準的國際會議；並藉此機會，和來自世界各地的精英交流研究
成果與切磋技術。 
 二、參加會議經過 
 
圖3 Transducers 2011舉辦會場(國家會議中心) 
此次會議在中國大陸北京的國家會議中心舉行，由當地的機場搭地鐵至會場
約需一個小時；若搭乘計程車至會場則需40分鐘。國家會議中心位於北京奧運時
所建立的水立方與鳥巢旁，會場鄰近地鐵站生活機能與交通上相當便利。 
    此次參與會議之詳細行程和參與經過如下： 
會議參與人員註冊。 
 
圖4 Transducers 2011會議參與人員註冊 
2011/06/09上午8:30 ~ 12:15為oral時段，分四個場地同時舉行，結束後會
議已到尾聲。中午12:15 ~ 13:15則為午宴時間。因為行程緊湊的關係我們聽
完上午的oral後，則和飯店check-out，離開北京，踏上歸途。 
 
三、與會心得 
IEEE Transducers 2011 集合了世界領先的最新研究成果與頂尖之技術，並提
供世界各地學者、研究人員交換研究成果與心得的資訊交流平台。藉由參與此次
之大型國際會議，除了可以了解目前世界各國發展微機電領域的近況、主流研究
領域外，更重要的是能與其他與會者分享、討論我們的研究成果，並藉由觀摩他
人的演講、實驗成果，學習他人長處以彌補自身不足的部分，以做為自己將來進
步之方向。 
感謝國科會補助，讓本人及本實驗室博士生能順利參加此次會議，相信藉由
此次國際型重大會議的參與，對學生未來研究、視野拓展與國際上微機電系統發
展現況之了解，具有重要的助益。 
 
四、攜回資料 
1. IEEE Transducers 2011 — Program, Sponsors & Exhibitors , Participant 
List 
型態：紙本 
數量：各 1 份 
內容：會議行程表，各參與者機關和聯絡方式 
 
2. IEEE Transducers 2011 — Proceedings 
型態：電子檔 
數量：1 份 
內容：本次會議參與者之論文全文 
A ROBUST MICRO MECHANICAL-LATCH SHOCK SWITCH WITH LOW CONTACT 
RESISTANCE 
 
C.H. Chung, R.-P. Ma, Y.-C. Shieh, W. Hsu 
Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan 
 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
Here a robust micro mechanical-latch shock switch 
is presented to record shock event for tens of G without 
slippage effect. Since the proposed shock switch is made 
of Ni, low contact resistance can be easily achieved to 
simplify sensing circuit. An analytical model with 
fixed-roller boundary condition is developed to 
investigate the effects of key dimensional parameters. 
The experimental results show that the switch can be 
successfully latched after experiencing a maximum 
downward shock of 17.22 G, which agrees well with the 
simulated threshold level of 17 G. Furthermore, even after 
applying 50 G opposite pulse acceleration, the switch can 
still remain latched due to limited space under the 
movable part. The contact resistance after latching is 
found to be around 40Ω, six orders less than the resistance 
before latching.  These results verify the accuracy of the 
analytical model and the robustness of the proposed micro 
shock switch design to provide low contact resistance at 
compact device size. 
 
KEYWORDS 
Shock switch, Latch, Contact resistance,  Robust 
 
INTRODUCTION 
A mechanical latch is a common approach to keep 
the shock switch remaining at latched state after threshold 
impact [1-4]. However, the switch may experience an 
even larger shock in opposite direction later, which would 
force the switch returning to its initial position, so-called 
slippage effect. This will cause inaccurate recording on 
shock event. To avoid that, usually a curved or angled 
contact surface was used to redirect some impact force to 
compliant direction while passing through the latch, and a 
flat contact surface was used to ensure the opposite 
impact force along the stiff direction [1-3]. Here a robust 
micro mechanical-latch shock switch is presented to 
record shock event for tens of G by limiting one-side 
deformation space to avoid slippage effect. Also, in 
previous micro shock switches with similar detection 
range, contact resistance was around MΩ range [2] due to 
low impact force. Otherwise, devices were in centimeter 
size [4-5] to have low contact resistance. The proposed 
design made of nickel is shown to provide low contact 
resistance at millimeter device size.  
 
DESIGN AND ANALYSIS 
 The operation concept of the proposed micro 
mechanical-latch shock switch is shown in Fig. 1. The 
proof mass is connected to the middle of  a suspended 
beam, as shown in Fig. 1(a). While experiencing the 
upward force, the suspended beam will deform and even 
touch the fixed electrode (Fig. 1(b)). When an external 
upward force is equal to or greater than the threshold level, 
the end of suspended beam will flip over and latch to the 
fixed electrode, as shown in Fig. 1(c).  
Figure 1: Operation concept: (a) before the shock; (b) 
deformation during the shock, (c) latched after the shock. 
 
After the switch is latched, a low contact resistance 
is helpful in simplifying sensing circuit. Since the sensing 
direction is normal to the wafer here, the contact area can 
be easily enlarged by increasing the width of the 
suspended beam. Furthermore, low-resistivity Ni is used 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
However, the influence of the overlap length on the 
threshold level becomes not so evident when Loverlap  is 
longer than 14 μm, which means variation on overlap 
length due to fabrication would have less effect on 
threshold acceleration. Therefore, the overlap length 
Loverlap  is designed to be 15 μm here to reduce the 
deviation of threshold acceleration due to fabrication 
inaccuracy on overlap length. 
 
Figure 5: The relation between overlap length  and threshold 
acceleration 
 
Figure 6 shows threshold accelerations at different 
beam lengths L with overlap length Loverlap = 15 μm. For 
threshold acceleration of 20 G, the suspended beam 
length needs to be about 2150 μm.  
 
Figure 6  Threshold acceleration at different beam lengths with 
Loverlap =15 μm  
 
The designed dimensions of the shock switch for 
around 20G threshold level are listed in Table 1. For this 
designed dimensions, it is found that the maximum 
vertical deformation of proof mass under 20 G shock 
acceleration will be more than 110 m. A larger 
acceleration will lead to an even larger maximum vertical 
deformation, therefore, by limiting space beneath the 
suspended beam and proof mass after latch,  the unlatch 
due to slippage effect can be avoided even suffering large 
opposite inertial force. 
Table 1  Device dimensions 
 
FABRICATION AND TESTING 
The fabrication process of the proposed shock switch 
is briefly illustrated in Fig. 7. First, oxide thin film on 
silicon wafer is grown as an electrical isolation layer. 
Photoresist FH-6400 is coated and patterned to act as the 
sacrificial layer. Then Ti/Cu thin films of 20/120 nm are 
sputtered as the adhesion layer and seed layer, 
respectively, as shown in Fig. 7(a). For forming the 
suspended beam structure, 20μm thick photoresist 
AZP-4620 is coated and patterned as the mold for the first 
nickel electroplating step, as shown in Fig. 7(b). After 
striping the first nickel electroplating mold, 16μm thick 
AZP-4620 is coated and patterned as the mold for the 
second nickel electroplating step for fabricating the fixed 
electrode and proof mass, as shown in Fig. 7(c). Since the 
Ni thickness in the second electroplating step will be 
thicker than the photoresist mold, a mushroom shape will 
be formed above the mold. Current density in the first and 
the second electroplating steps is set at 20 mA/cm2. 
Figure 7(d) shows the releasing step by removing the 
mold, sacrifice layer, and Ti/Cu layers. 
Layout of the testing circuit with the fabricated 
device is shown in Fig. 8, where the shock switch will act 
as a resistance. Once the switch is latched, the output 
Parameter design fabricated 
Width of beam spring, W 400 μm 415 μm 
Thickness of beam spring, H 3.5 μm 3.3 μm 
Length of beam spring, L 2150  μm 2165 μm 
 Electrode among overlap 
range, Loverlap 
15 μm 15.97 μm 
Length of proof-mass, LM 2000 μm 2015 μm 
Width of proof-mass, WM 1000 μm 1015 μm 
Thickness of first nickel electr
oplating, HM1 
16 μm 17.16 μm 
Thickness of second  nickel 
electroplating and over-filled, 
HM2 
20 μm 22.7 μm 
gap between beam and 
substrate, d 
2 μm 2.3 μm 
Young’s modulus, E 160 GPa 
density of nickel 8910 kg/m3 
 Figure 10: SEM photographs of the switch before the shock test 
(a) top view; (b) side view. 
 
Figure 11: Output voltage Vx under different  pulse 
accelerations:(a) 15.27 G (contact but not latched); (b) 17.22 G 
(latched).  
 
Figure12: SEM photographs of the latched switch after the 
shock test: (a) bird’s view; (b) side view. 
 
CONCLUSION 
A robust mechanical-latch shock switch made of 
nickel is designed, fabricated, and tested here. It is shown 
that the switch exhibits contact but not latch behaviors at 
15.27 G pulse acceleration, and successfully remains 
latched after 17.22 G pulse acceleration, agreed well with 
the simulated threshold acceleration of 17 G. The contact 
resistance after latching is found to be about 40Ω, six 
orders less than the resistance before latching which is 
helpful to provide evident change on output voltage. 
Furthermore, even after applying 50 G opposite pulse 
acceleration, the switch can still remain latched due to the 
limited space design below the suspended beam. These 
results verify the accuracy of the analytical model and the 
robustness of the proposed micro shock switch design.  
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
This work was supported by CSIST (XR99052P214) 
and partially by National Science Council of Taiwan 
(NSC 97-2221-E-009-020-MY3). Authors would also 
like to thank Nano Facility Center of National Chiao Tung 
(a) 
(b) 
(a) 
(b) 
(a) 
(b) 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/09/02
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以電鍍法製作含奈米粒子之金屬微結構的熱膨脹係數及疲勞特性研究
計畫主持人: 徐文祥
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-009-020-MY3 學門領域: 疲勞與損壞
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
