A Framework for Dynamic Project Portfolio Management 
中文摘要 
 研發專案投資組合決定公司研發資源的分配，深刻影響公司未來的營運及競
爭力。為因應競爭激烈且變化快速的環境，研發專案的組合管理需隨時調整，將
資源用在刀口上。本研究建構一個即時回應機制的動態投資組合管理架構，以彌
補企業目前定期召開高階主管投資組合會議，無法即時調整投資組合的缺失。本
研究定義動態投資組合管理為動態性配合研發內、外在環境的變動，即時檢討新
產品研發專案投資組合，將研發資源作最適的分配。當偵測到環境有重要變動
時，該動態研發專案組合管理系統即啟發評估及調整活動，檢視及評估現有研發
專案投資組合的績效，及其目標是否有可能達成。考慮研發專案高度不確定之特
性及專案間複雜的互動關係對績效之影響，以決策樹方法評估專案之績效，檢討
各專案是否繼續執行或需調整，以因應環境的變遷。企業能更有效、更積極的管
理投資組合，將資源作最有效的分配，以強化公司未來的營運及競爭力。 
摘要關鍵詞 : 研發專案；投資組合；產品及技術策略地圖；不確定性。 
 　  
 Abstract—New product development (NPD) project portfolio management is 
essential for firms in allocating limited resources on the right projects. Facing 
rapidly changing environments, effective NPD project portfolio should be 
adaptive to internal and external critical changes. Thus, in this study a dynamic 
NPD project portfolio framework is proposed to complement the periodical 
portfolio review meeting in practice. In the periodical portfolio meeting that 
takes place two to four times annually, top managers are gathered for review, 
evaluate, and redirect the project portfolio on strategic viewpoints. This is not 
suitable as a tool for quick adaptation of portfolio due to the high costs rising 
from the need of huge information and time. Thus, the proposed dynamic 
portfolio is expected to complement the periodical meeting in facing the changing 
environments, with lower cost and quick change detection. This is done through 
 Still, the portfolio needs to be efficiently adjusted and re-directed, on a real-time 
basis, as a response to the dramatic changes in both internal and external business 
environments in order to reduce detour and maintain competitiveness. In this study, 
we propose a dynamic portfolio framework, in which, rather than having to wait for 
periodical adjustments, the portfolio can be adjusted and renewed, with a much lower 
cost, whenever a new critical piece of change information enters.  
 While traditional portfolio management (referred in this study as static portfolio) 
tries to review the set of R&D projects and re-allocated resource periodically, the idea 
of dynamic portfolio seeks to do it on an event/information oriented basis. We believe 
that a set of previously identified change factors will help to quickly detect changes in 
the environments. These change information then initiates/triggers the actions of 
evaluation, identification of deviations, and adjustments. Thus, we expect the 
response actions to be fast and effective. Also, for performance evaluation, we aim to 
provide a systematic approach that requires less information and can assist 
decision-making, thus reducing the cost for performing the whole monitoring and 
adjusting process.  
 
II. DYNAMIC PORTFOLIO FRAMEWORK 
  
A traditional static portfolio is one which is renewed periodically by portfolio review 
board. Dynamic portfolio, on the other hand, is one with not only the periodical 
review but also a real-time response mechanism to deal with changes in the 
environment. Changes occur when the projects are taking place. These changes 
include internal and external factors. External factors are from outside the firm and 
cannot be controlled by the firm’s management, for example, market demand change 
and legislative issues. Internal factors, on the other hand, raises within the firm and 
can be partially controlled through management. The controllable part includes 
strategic directions, management decisions, and so on, while uncertain factors also 
play a great role in the development process as uncontrollable factors. 
In a traditional static portfolio mode, the portfolio is evaluated and adjusted 
periodically. The time interval between every portfolio review board may be different 
in different firms. A typical practice is a three-month (seasonal) review meeting. 
Although projects in the portfolio are controlled in a real-time manner, there remains 
a lack of overall sight between portfolio reviews. During this period, environmental 
changes may have influence on the original settled goals or have impact on existing 
portfolio performances. Control solely on project level may lead to inefficient 
management results. 
The idea of dynamic portfolio rises from the sight of this need. The aim is to build a 
External 
Changes Internal 
Changes
Core 
capability
Competitors
Substitute 
products
Expected 
Portfolio 
Performance
Resource
Portfolio 
GoalsDeviation
Portfolio adjustments:
Adding
Eliminating
Consolidating
……
Market 
demand
 
Fig. 2 Environmental changes trigger the portfolio dynamics 
  
A. Identify trigger factors 
 Changes in the business environment, both internal and external, create deviations 
between the firm’s portfolio goals and performances (see Fig. 2). Portfolio goals are 
targets on different criteria reflecting the firm’s strategic directions which are to be 
fulfilled through the implementation of R&D projects. Portfolio performance, on the 
other hand, is the expected level of contribution provided by the actual set of project 
portfolio. Theoretically, the performance of a portfolio is the realization of its goals. 
When changes occur, both goals and performances may be affected. The result is a 
deviation between goals and performances, that is, the portfolio’s contribution may no 
longer be able to fulfill its goals. 
 In order to effectively adjust the portfolio goals and contents, changes in the 
environment have to be detected efficiently. Thus, the firm has to generate a list of 
trigger factors, that is, the drivers of possible changes in the future that may influence 
its portfolio. A list of trigger factors is a result of environmental analysis and 
brainstorming, which determines the most important factors that will decide the future 
environment which the firm operates.  
Based on the nature of its business or industry, a firm should identify its specific 
triggering influences thus effectively detect their occurrences. 
 
 
B. Confirm portfolio goals 
 Under each criterion, a target value should be set as goal for performance 
evaluation. The unit used on each criterion for setting target value and evaluating 
performance should be identical. 
 
C. Evaluate portfolio performance 
 The evaluation of portfolio is based on the evaluation of projects. Here we assume 
that the expected portfolio performance is the summation of all expected project 
performances. A simple weighting technique is used to obtain an overall performance 
grade of the portfolio under evaluation. Table I below shows how the overall 
performance grade is calculated. 
TABLE I 
PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE EVALUATION CRITERIA 
Weight  Portfolio goals Portfolio Performance % Achievement Grade 
Criteria 
iw  ig  ip  
i
i
p
g
 i i
i
p w
g
 
Criterion 1      
Criterion 2      
Criterion 3      
…      
Criterion I      
Portfolio performance/achievement grade (total) 
1
I
i i
i i
p w
g=
∑   
Notations: 
i   criteria index, 1, 2, ,i I= …  
iw  weight of criterion i , 
1
1
I
i
i
w
=
=∑  
ig  portfolio goal/target value of criterion i  
ip  expected portfolio performance value of criterion i  
 Weight of each criterion is given according to management perception of the 
relative importance of each criterion. Decision support tools such as Analytic 
Hierarchy Process (AHP) may provide satisfying results in weight setting. 
 The portfolio achievement grade 
1
I
i i
i i
p w
g=
∑  represents the overall goal achievement 
of the current portfolio. The maximum value of this indicator is 1, meaning that the 
goal can be fully achieved by the portfolio within resource limitation. 
 
Fig. 4. Yes-no procedure for dynamic portfolio control 
 Finally, we describe the evaluation process for add in new projects and hold 
existing projects. 
1) Add in new project 
 Adding in a new project means to create a project as a response to the needs (or 
deviation) of existing portfolio. Here, a new project may come from a completely new 
idea, or an existing project with several adjustments. A simple suitability evaluation is 
provided to ensure its suitability and contribution to the portfolio. The evaluation is 
very similar to the way portfolio is evaluated. The difference is that “portfolio goal” 
has been changed onto “portfolio deviation”, which demonstrates the unfulfilled part 
of portfolio goal. The portfolio deviation then becomes the goal to be fulfilled by the 
new project. Table II presents how the project suitability grade is obtained. 
 
Notations: 
x   project index 
x
ip  project x ’s delivery on criterion i  
New project suitability grade 
1
xI
i i
i i
p w
d=
∑  represents a project’s overall suitability as a 
response to portfolio deviations. The above table can also be presented in a bar chart, 
see Fig. 5. 
 
 
portfolio goal. Through comparing the cost of continue development and the expected 
deliveries, the manager has to decide whether to release its resource for other projects 
with higher potential. 
3) Modify existing project plans 
 Changes occur may provide more information regarding only existing projects. 
Besides being hold, existing projects can also be modified, in terms of time schedule, 
scale, and resource assigned. For example, it may indicate that the product launch has 
to be advanced, thus the adjustment could be solely adding recourse and reschedule an 
existing project activities. 
 
III. DISSCUSSION AND FUTURE STUDIES  
  
This study aims to provide a conceptual framework for portfolio management in 
adapting the rapid change in external and internal environments. This dynamic 
portfolio is a complement to the typical periodical portfolio review. The idea is that 
portfolio reviews may become more effective when it can be triggered by critical 
information than solely based on time intervals. Thus, we believe that a previously 
identified set of possible change factors will contribute in quick detection of change 
thus initiates the adjusting activities. Also, s systematic portfolio evaluation approach 
allows manager to quickly evaluate the gap between portfolio goals and performances. 
This approach does not require all information in the portfolio, and outcomes are clear 
for decision. Thus, the whole review board does not have to gather for adjustment 
decisions. The review board can still meet quarterly for overall portfolio decisions, 
while adjustments triggered by change could be easily made by related managements. 
With a much lower cost, the proposed dynamic portfolio can be performed constantly, 
thus keeps the portfolio on the right track.  
 Requiring a limited amount of project information and top management devotion, 
the dynamic portfolio complements the periodical portfolio review and provides the 
advantage of quick response to critical change information, thus keeps the portfolio 
on track no matter how the environments change. Case studies are needed for further 
development and validation of the framework. 
 
 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] Cooper, R. G., S. J. Edgett, and E. J. Kleinschmidt, “New product portfolio 
management: practices and performance,” Journal of Innovation Management, 
vol.16. pp. 333-351, 1999 
