lab researchers and the industry. This instrument has 
three main modules: 
(1) High-bandwidth thermal coupler temperature 
sensor: In typical temperature measurement, there is 
a significant trade-off between signal tracking and 
noises rejection. We will apply the  -manifold method 
to design high-order filters, implemented into dsPIC 
to remove this trade-off. 
(2) Low-frequency real-timed signal generator: Low-
frequency outputs of typical oscillators are 
inaccurate to the extent of measurement purpose, and 
meanwhile general-purpose computers have no 
peripherals for fast outputs. With embedded 
controllers, we will design low-frequency real-timed 
signal generators, wherein the real-timed sinusoidal 
signals generation is programmed with hard-
nonlinearity feedback that obtains limit cycles. 
(3) Matlab-to/from-dsPIC development platform: With 
this tool, high-order filters and signal generators 
can be programmed with Matlab mfiles and then 
implemented into dsPIC. As of such, the synthesis and 
implementation of the instrument cores are integrated 
into Matlab environment.         
With this instrument, lab researchers or industry 
engineers can develop a new world with 
(1) New conservation law- thermal inertia implies a 
scalar storage that has not yet been discovered, 
which furthers to imply that a new conservation law 
should be added to mass, mechanical energy, and 
energy conservation equations to complete classical 
physics； 
(2) New operation of organic materials- for examples, 
medical operation and polymer process should take 
thermal inertia into consideration for safety and 
reliability； and 
(3) New renewable energy technology- it becomes 
possible to develop a new energy storage, into which 
large amounts of energy can still be pumped in the 
form of heat-flux even with tiny temperature 
differences, escaping from traditional hamper preset 
by the second law of thermodynamics. 
 
 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
期末報告 
 
以反控制策略設計熱感量測儀器 
 
 
計畫類別：□個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 100-2221-E-194-008- 
執行期間：100 年 08 月 01 日至 101 年 07 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立中正大學機械系(所) 
 
計畫主持人：洪博雄 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：周家宇、蘇文瑞 
 
 
 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另含下列出國報告，共 1份： 
□移地研究心得報告 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
 
處理方式：得立即公開查詢 
   
 
中 華 民 國 101 年 10 月 31 日
 
 
 
With the aid of the self-developed 2D classical control theory, the investigator gave a 
theoretical proof that the physical realization of thermal inertia by time-delayed diffusion 
contradicts the first law of thermodynamics. Lately, with the strategy of frequency responses, 
the investigator was capable of identifying the accurate values of thermal inductances in some 
organic materials. In this project, such instrumentation was expanded to suit for a variety of 
materials, and then a special-purpose instrument was designed and manufactured for lab 
researchers and the industry. This instrument has three main modules: 
(1) High-bandwidth thermal coupler temperature sensor: In typical temperature measurement, 
there is a significant trade-off between signal tracking and noises rejection. We will apply 
the  -manifold method to design high-order filters, implemented into dsPIC to remove 
this trade-off. 
(2) Low-frequency real-timed signal generator: Low-frequency outputs of typical oscillators 
are inaccurate to the extent of measurement purpose, and meanwhile general-purpose 
computers have no peripherals for fast outputs. With embedded controllers, we will design 
low-frequency real-timed signal generators, wherein the real-timed sinusoidal signals 
generation is programmed with hard-nonlinearity feedback that obtains limit cycles. 
(3) Matlab-to/from-dsPIC development platform: With this tool, high-order filters and signal 
generators can be programmed with Matlab mfiles and then implemented into dsPIC. As 
of such, the synthesis and implementation of the instrument cores are integrated into 
Matlab environment.         
With this instrument, lab researchers or industry engineers can develop a new world with 
(1) New conservation law- thermal inertia implies a scalar storage that has not yet been 
discovered, which furthers to imply that a new conservation law should be added to mass, 
mechanical energy, and energy conservation equations to complete classical physics; 
(2) New operation of organic materials- for examples, medical operation and polymer process 
should take thermal inertia into consideration for safety and reliability; and 
(3) New renewable energy technology- it becomes possible to develop a new energy storage, 
into which large amounts of energy can still be pumped in the form of heat-flux even with 
tiny temperature differences, escaping from traditional hamper preset by the second law 
of thermodynamics. 
Keywords: Thermal inertia; Thermal inductance instruments; Non-Fourier heat transfer; 
Thermal kinetic effect. 
 
II 
 
 
 
3. 在熱傳材料中的任何位置，突然的溫度改變不會導致突然的熱通量改變，而是需要一
段的時間遲滯。從中我們可以推斷，熱傳遞的速度比傅立葉熱傳所預測的還小。 
然而，對於僅建立於電腦上的模擬而言，這是很難區分熱感模型與時間延遲的不同。 
對於這些非傅立葉熱傳現象，Cattaneo [20, 21] 及 Vernotte [22, 23] 提出以一階方程
式取代零階： 
Tkt  qq     (CV-equation) 
此處的T 與 q分別代表溫度和熱通量，而 則是觀察到的落後時間。目前的主流是
將這個 CV-equtaion 簡化成一階近似的時間延遲熱傳方程式： 
),(),(  xTktx q  (TD-equation) 
結合這個 TD-equation 與熱容可得到一個帶有時間延遲的拉普拉斯算子拋物線方程
式(TDP-equation)。 
然而，我們將利用二維轉移函數 [24] 來證明此 TDP-equation 是不適當的，不管是
搭任何初始條件及多小的延遲時間，其解都是不存在。時間延遲熱擴散的假設是違背熱
力學第一定律的。 
另一方面，由電熱類比而提出的熱電路可符合非傅立葉現象，而且可被系統化成一
個被動的熱傳雙曲線方程式。雖然這方程式似乎也是違背了熱機原理，但這可用熱感可
儲存能量來修正。這種說法是被理論 [25, 26] 所支持。 
熱慣性是否真的可以被參數化為熱感呢？相當於電傳物質之寄生電感。Mitra 等人
的臘腸實驗[7]雖然是以延遲時間的觀念來解釋所量測的現象，但實驗成果卻非常明顯。
為了確認熱感模型可以解釋熱慣性，故本研究以重複 Mitra 的實驗作為出發點，提出依
其方法量測溫度時所遇到的困難，因此改以動態建模觀念提出頻率響應方法來設計儀
器，並利用此量測儀確實求得熱感值。 
除了此節為前言外，本文架構如下：第二節，以二維轉移函數搭配奈氏穩定準則與
根軌跡法分析時間延遲模型。第三節，基於電熱類比原理，導入熱感建構出熱慣性的二
維轉移函數模型。第四節重複 Mitra 實驗。第五節以頻率響應法著手於儀器設計及實驗
方法。第六節討論實驗結果。第七節，總結此研究。 
 
二、 時間延遲模型分析 
 
假設在熱傳播中真實存在時間延遲 ， 
),(),( txTktx q  
結合能量守恆， 
),(),(),( txQtx
t
txTCv 
 q      (1) 
可導出時間延遲的拋物線方程式： 
),(),(),( 2 txQtxTk
t
txTCv 
        (2) 
2 
 
 
 
q Tk                    (6) 
以及能量守恆： 
QTCv  q                (7) 
此處， k 表熱傳導係數， 是質量密度， vC 是比熱，而Q 是熱源。 
如圖 4.，基於電熱類比，我們選擇溫度T 當作熱壓以及熱通量 q為熱流。如此將可
推出熱阻 kR 1 和熱容 vCC  。 
為了完成電熱類比，我們將熱感 L列入方程式(1)以觀察非傅立葉熱傳之熱慣性： 
qq RLT                   (8) 
以及改寫方程式(7)為 
QTC  q                 (9) 
應用 Kirchhoff 定理，推導出雙曲線方程式： 
Q
C
R
t
Q
C
LT
Ct
TR
t
TL 


 2
2
2 1      (10) 
並搭配邊界條件 
fnTT  ˆ  on             (11) 
為了分析，我們選擇特徵長度 代表熱傳範圍的尺寸；一個時間常數 RL ；以
及參考溫度 rT ，並透過無因次化 
xx  ; tt  ; rTT      (12) 
將可得到無因次方程式： 
u
t
u
tt



  22
2
     (13) 
fn  ˆ  on 0           (14) 
此處 0 代表無因次的熱傳範圍， rCTQu  表無因次熵流率，以及  CRL 22 表負定
拉普拉斯算子 2 的倍率參數。 
應 用 Hong [24] 的 方 法 ， 對 方 程 式 (13)-(14) 取  Laplace-Galerkin transfer 
GLLGH  ，並搭配 Green’s Identity，可得 2D 轉移函數 
),(1),( 2 sUss
s  
  dSnF
ss 





  

0
ˆ1
2 


    (15) 
此轉移函數包含了內部熱源 ),( sU  及邊界條件  






0
ˆ

  nF 。 
再對方程式(15)作 inverse Galerkin transfer -1G ，即可得到此材料其溫度之頻域響
應： 
  ),(),( xGUsx 



   ),(ˆ
0
xnFG 


 
 









    (16) 
 
四、 Mitra 實驗 
 
4 
 
 
 
呈現震盪現象而固定於一常數值。 
2. 可從圖 7.明顯觀察到當越小，熱感模型雖與傅立葉熱傳模型的曲線越相似，但在高
頻時仍然會趨於平緩，且震盪越小而接近於直線。 
本計畫設計與製造熱慣性量測儀，使某些材料之熱感皆可被準確量測。此熱慣性量
測儀由以下三個主要模組合成: 
(1) 低頻即時信號產生器: 一般硬體震盪器，其低頻輸出相當不準確且不可靠，而廣義功
能電腦，其周邊介面傳輸過慢，無及時性。因此本實驗室採用內嵌式控制器設計低
頻即時信號產生器，來驅動光熱源，執行頻域量測。其中，即時正弦波產生，為本
實驗室開發的新技術，其引用迴授系統來合成極限震盪。 
(2) 高頻寬熱電耦溫度感測器: 一般溫度量測，無法兼顧量測速度與消除雜訊。本實驗室
開發 -manifold 方法來合成高階濾波器，並安裝於Microchip-dsPIC，來快速追蹤訊
號，並有效去除雜訊。 
(3) Matlab-to/from-dsPIC 開發平台: 以此工具，高階濾波器與信號產生器可以由Matlab
之mfiles來程式並安裝於dsPIC，以結合兩者的合成與安裝。 
因此，本研究設計成採無內部熱源模型，在絕熱環境中，測材一端固定邊界條件，
另一端以可控熱源為變動邊界條件。實驗模組圖如圖 8.所示，從圖中可看出首先先建立
電源電路供給電源，再靠低頻訊號產生器產生單頻信號控制驅動電路，以驅動致冷晶
片。致冷晶片產生變動的溫度邊界讓實驗平台內之待測物與熱源間產生溫度震盪，接著
藉由熱電偶測溫線量測待測物隨著熱源改變產生的溫度變化情形，溫度信號經過放大與
濾波電路，再由 AD/DA 介面卡 USB-4711 擷取傳送至電腦，收集單頻觸發的穩態響應。
並以傅立葉頻譜分析來準確繪製波德增益圖與模擬的波德圖相互比較。由於非傅立葉雙
曲線熱傳與拋物線熱傳有顯著的不同，所以那是非常容易去驗證熱慣性的參數。 
 
 
六、 實驗結果 
 
依據上一節所述，繪製波德增益圖過程時，利用輸入不同單頻訊號，收集溫度震盪
曲線資料，其穩態時間響應圖如圖 9.所示，點線是低頻信號產生器送出之信號，虛線是
致冷晶片電流曲線，實線是受待測材料熱流邊界條件輸入的溫度響應。 
利用快速傅立葉頻譜分析收集的溫度、電流等資料，並獲得各頻率的振幅大小。由
於輸入命令的頻率屬人為控制，故僅需知道該頻率下溫度、電流的振幅即可。如圖 9.
所示，控制輸入頻率以 2.0 Hz 當作代表，由圖 10.溫度頻譜中可觀測出輸入頻率 2.0 Hz 的
溫度振幅為 236.8 ，該頻譜的溫度振幅和時間響應的溫度振幅是相吻合的。因此，進一
步利用此方法可分別得知溫度及電流的振幅，即可獲得該待測物溫度響應對輸入的增益
大小。另外，此舉亦可排除人為觀察所造成的誤差，亦可降低雜訊的干擾。 
實驗由頻率 01.0 Hz 到10 Hz 間記錄共130組頻率訊號所收集到的溫度和電流時間響
應圖，並由傅立葉頻譜分析獲得各頻率的溫度、電流振幅大小值，繪製的實驗波德增益
6 
 
 
 
Conduction on Temperature Distribution in Laser Irradiated Tissue with Blood Perfusion, 
in: J.J. McGrath (Ed.), Advances in Biological Heat and Mass Transfer, ASME, New 
York, pp.7-16, 1992. 
[5] Vedavarz, A., Kumar, S. and Moallemi, M. K., Significance of Non-Fourier Heat Waves 
in Conduction, ASME J. Heat Transfer, Vol. 116, pp. 221-224, 1994. 
[6] Roetzel, W., Putra, N. and Das, S. K., Experiment and Analysis for Non-Fourier 
Conduction in Materials with Non-homogeneous Inner Structure, Int. J. Therm. Sci., Vol. 
42, pp. 541-552, 2003. 
[7] Mitra, K., Kumar, S., Vedavarz, A. and Moallemi, M. K., Experimental Evidence of 
Hyperbolic Heat Conduction in Processed Meat, ASME J. Heat Transfer, Vol. 117, pp. 
568-573, 1995. 
[8] Jiang, F., Liu, D. and Zou, J., Non-Fourier Heat Conduction Phenomena in Porous 
Material Heated by Microsecond Laser Pulse, Nanosc. Microsc. Therm., Vol. 6, pp. 
331-346, 2002. 
[9] Sousa, R. A. D., Rocha, A. F. D., Schutt, D., Haemmerich, D. and Santos, E. I. D., 
Experimental Evidence oh Hyperbolic heat Conduction in Agar, in: 21 Congresso 
Brasileiro de Engenharia Biomédica (CBEB), Salvador-Bahia, pp. 1343-1346, 2008. 
[10] Maxwell, J. C., On the Dynamic Theory of Gases, Philos. Trans. R. Soc., London, Vol. 
157, pp. 49-88, 1867. 
[11] Nernst, W., Die Theoretischen und Experimentellen Grundlagen des Neuen Warmesatzes, 
Knapp, Halle, 1918. 
[12] Peshkov, V., Second Sound in Helium II, J. Phys., Vol. 8, pp. 381, 1944. 
[13] Taitel, Y., On the Parabolic, Hyperbolic and Discrete Formulation of the HeatConduction 
Equation, Int. J. Heat Mass Transfer, Vol. 15, pp. 369-371, 1972. 
[14] Joseph, D. D., and Preziosi, L., Heat Waves, Rev. Mod. Phys., Vol. 61, pp. 41-73, 1989. 
[15] Mandrusiak, G. D., Analysis of Non-Fourier conduction Waves from a Reciprocating 
Heat Source, J. Thermophys. Heat Transfer, Vol. 11, pp. 82-89, 1997. 
[16] Tan, Z. M., and Yang, W. J., Heat Transfer during Asymmetrical Collision of Thermal 
Waves in a Thin Film, Int. J. Heat Mass Transfer, Vol. 40, pp. 3999-4006, 1997. 
[17] Honner, M., Heat Waves Simulation, Comput. Math. Appl., Vol. 38, pp. 233-243, 1999. 
[18] Al-Nimr, M. A., and Alkam, M. K., Overshooting Phenomenon in the Hyperbolic 
Microscopic Heat Conduction Duringodel, Int. J. Thermophys., Vol. 24, No. 2, pp. 
577-583, 2003. 
[19] Hermann, R. P., Grandjean, F., and Long, G. J., Einstein Oscillators that Impede Thermal 
Transport, Am. J. Phys., Vol. 73, No. 2, pp. 110-118, 2005. 
[20] Cattaneo, C., Sulla Conduzione de Calore, Atti Del Seminar. Mat. Fis. Univ. Modena, 
Vol. 3, pp. 3, 1948. 
[21] Cattaneo, C., A Form of Heat conduction Equation which Eliminates the Paradox of 
Instantaneous Propagation, Compt. Rend. Acad. Sci., Vol. 247, pp. 431-433, 1958. 
[22] Vernotte, P., Les Paradoxes de la Theorie Contnue de I’equation de la Chaleur, Compt. 
Rend. Acad. Sci., Vol. 246, pp. 3154-3155, 1958. 
7 
8 
 
 
 
九、圖表 
 
圖 1. Feedback realization of time-delay 
parabolic heat transfer 
 
 
圖 2. Nyquist plot of se s  ( 200  ) 
 
圖 3. Root Locus of 01   se s  ( 0 ) 
 
 
圖 4. Circuit representation of non-Fourier 
heat transfer 
 
圖 5. Mitra 實驗示意圖 
 
圖 6. Mirta 實驗結果圖 
 
圖 7. 熱感模型與傅立葉熱傳模型之波德
增益圖 
10 
 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學
術或應用價值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發
展之可能性）、是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他
有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估
□ 達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表 
日期：101 年 10 月 31 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：以反控制策略設計熱感量測儀器 
計畫主持人：洪博雄         
計畫編號：NSC 100-2221-E-194-008- 領域：量測與控制 
（中文）熱慣性量測儀 
研發成果名稱 （英文）Thermal Inertia Instruments 
成果歸屬機構 
國科會與國立中正大學
發明人 
(創作人) 
洪博雄 
周家宇 
張建軒 
鄭宇翔 
蕭庭晨 
技術說明 
此熱慣性量測儀由以下三個主要模組合成: 
(1) 低頻即時信號產生器: 一般硬體震盪器，其低頻輸出相當
不準確且不可靠，而廣義功能電腦，其周邊介面傳輸過慢，
無及時性。因此本實驗室採用內嵌式控制器設計低頻即時信
號產生器，來驅動光熱源，執行頻域量測。其中，即時正弦
波產生，為本實驗室開發的新技術，其引用迴授系統來合成
極限震盪。 
(2) 高頻寬熱電耦溫度感測器: 一般溫度量測，無法兼顧量測
速度與消除雜訊。本實驗室開發 -manifold 方法來合成高
階濾波器，並安裝於Microchip-dsPIC，來快速追蹤訊號，
並有效去除雜訊。 
(3) Matlab-to/from-dsPIC 開發平台: 以此工具，高階濾波器與
信號產生器可以由Matlab之mfiles來程式並安裝於dsPIC，以
結合兩者的合成與安裝。 
 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                            日期：101 年 10 月 31 日 
一、參加會議經過 
In September 04-05, the investigator attended The EEM 2012, which is an international 
conference on Information Technology and System Integration. It took place in Hong Kong, 
on September 04-05, 2012. This conference covers a wide range of fields from engineering 
to curriculum designs, from theory to application and from software to hardware. The 
official language of the conference is English. There did appear novel interdisciplinary 
challenges transferable between plural fields. The technical program included Plenary and 
Invited Talks, Tutorial Courses, and Workshops, as well as Oral and Interactive Sessions. 
All the presented papers were included by CPCI-SSH. The investigator presented two 
papers in two different sessions chaired by the investigator. 
二、與會心得 
This community aimed at exploring social simulation from the viewpoint of 
transdisciplinary research and bringing researchers from different fields to discuss the same 
issue. For this purpose, EEM 2012 in particular, focuses on both the ideas from computer 
science as a new technology to provide insights into social science communities and the 
ideas coming from social sciences as new metaphors to provide insights into computer 
science community. It gathers mostly all well-known world researchers, who have much 
contributed to encourage this interdisciplinary research area by addressing past, present 
and future issues on social simulation, which widely cover the significant social simulation 
areas, including game theory, market and finance, auction, social networks, social models 
計畫編號 NSC 100-2221-E-194-008 
計畫名稱 Design Instrumentation to Measure Thermal Inductance via 
Anti-control Strategy 
出國人員
姓名 洪博雄 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立中正大學機械系 
副教授 
會議時間 
101 年 9 月 4 日
至 
101 年 9 月 5 日 
會議地點 
香港新界 
會議名稱 
(中文) 2012 第二屆工程暨工程管理國際研討會 
(英文) 2012 2nd International Conference on Engineering and 
Engineering Management (EEM 2012)  
發表題目 
(中文) 工程設計心靈拼圖與實驗證法 
(英文) Minding Experiments with Illustration and Word 
Metaphors for Engineering Design 
 
 
 
Minding Experiments with Illustration and Word Metaphors for 
Engineering Design 
Boe-Shong Hong 1,a* and Mei-Hung Wu 2,b, 
1,2 Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Chung Cheng University, Taiwan 
aemail: imehbs@ccu.edu.tw  
bemail: sasaergg@gmail.com 
*Corresponding author 
 
Keywords: illustration, word metaphors, Young Goodman Brown  
 
Abstract. This paper is to provide an interaction between written words and pictures that 
makes illustration clear and significant in reading and picturing. The processes of written 
words, reading, and picturing are three essential methods of construction for “mind story.” 
The main purpose of illustration is to explore a vivid sketch of story and a real world from its 
interactions of signifieds and signifiers (word metaphors). Hence, based on picturing, the first 
part of this paper is intended to discuss close interconnection among illustration, story, sketch, 
and word metaphors. The second part will go into detailed analysis of Young Goodman 
Brown, and the third part will give clear steps of teaching experiment and final fruits of 
picturing.  
 
1. Introduction  
 
 Word metaphors, illustrations and sketch are three main parts of a picturebook when a 
university teacher attempts to give his/her students a detailed idea of literary contents in 
technological English. The illustration shaped sketch includes the signifieds and the signifiers, 
called the word metaphors. The purpose of illustration is to give clear idea of literary contents 
whereas the sketch is to shape detailed story of illustration and the word metaphors. Hence, 
this paper will discuss close interconnection among these three elements embedded into 
Young Goodman Brown.   
 The prevalent picturebooks are the products of cultures showing trace of powers inside 
the literary contents and picture drawing, as picturebooks share two kinds of analyzing 
methods, visual arts and interactions of literary-pictures. The closing interaction of visual arts 
has put pictures into storytelling that gives visual arts a linear and nonlinear continuous mode 
of narratives. The mode of linear and nonlinear narratives offers pictures a particular notion 
that is called creativity, imagination and innovation when the visual arts of picturebooks refer 
to two specific meanings from its language of literary contents: denotation and 
exemplification. “‘. . . we are bringing two symbol systems together (words and images) as 
we make our way from cover to cover’” [5]. 
 
2. Illustration, Sketch and Word Metaphors 
 
The picturebooks give readers fined visual appreciation of inner and outer spaces in 
recognizing perception, understanding and pleasures.  Molly Bang puts that the literary 
content gives significant multi-meanings of implied languages and word metaphors where 
pictures express exquisite aura of emotion: “Pictures are two-dimensional, whereas we live in 
three dimensional spaces, with many more dimensions added by our passions and 
intelligence” (114). The images and picture planes closely interact as a part of literary-pictures 
that makes word metaphors and languages become very essential elements of picturebooks. 
The perceptional illustrations (a part of picturebooks) are the artworks of picturebooks but not 
the composition of painting medium.  
 
 
 
3. Literature references of Young Goodman Brown  
 
 Nathanial Hawthorne (1804-1864) was one of prominent American romanticism writer 
whose artworks focused on the parts of dark romanticism. The story background of 
Hawthorne’s works gave a significant idea of the “‘historical reminiscences’” process that 
shared his standpoints on “the problem posed for the New England Puritans by ‘specter 
evidence’” [6]. The unhappy memory of Hawthorne’s childhood was bathed in gloomy and 
isolated circumstances of puritanism that haunted him and his artworks with stern, severe 
historical reminiscences of his ancestors ‘for their sakes.’  
Young Goodman Brown entitles a novel model of denotation and exemplification with 
the energetic life-power of a young and good man named Goodman Brown whose starting of 
night journey to the forest makes him lose his wife Faith and faith. Even with his reputation as 
a romancer, Hawthorne created a neutral setting of story, “somewhere between the real world 
and fairy-land” [6]. Dennis G. Coffey reminded readers that Young Goodman Brown was the 
tale with narratological disposition this way: “‘a story about how to write a story’” [6].   
The starting of Young Goodman Brown gave an entrance of fascinating picture for 
constructing mind story when readers reading it felt stern, somber surroundings from the 
happened actions that Brown moved. The setting was in Salem and the story told a young 
good man with love, passion and faith starting his night journey to the forest even in the 
period of his honey-moon. Leo B. Levy defines Brown’s night journey to the dark forest as 
his searching for the relationship of son and father Satan after Brown gave himself to the devil: 
“Brown becomes a ‘demoniac,’ ‘the chief horror’ in a scene full of horrors—of terrible sounds 
made up of ‘the creaking tree, the howling of wild beasts, and they yell of Indians” [8]. The 
night journey was a significant sign of ‘his exploration of heart of darkness’ that his 
companions and travelers told him that “they might have been taken for father and son” [8].  
The loss of his Faith and faith not only let Brown felt awareness of devil nature of 
mankind but also made him receive catharsis of weakness of mankind. Brown’s last cry for 
his faith and Faith was significant referant to his wife, the angel Faith and his “spiritual need 
and spiritual sustenance” while his Faith and faith had came to the side of unresponsiveness 
[8]. Brown thus yelled three times, “My faith is gone” [7] while he gave up to take the pink 
ribbon back. Brown changed; he was an old bad man and opened his arms and mind to 
welcome the victor of devil: “‘Welcome, . . . , in one cry of despair and triumph’” [7].  
4. Theory into Practice   
(A) Picturing is an important teaching role both in reading and writing  
processes.  
(B) Group Works: 20 students are divided into two groups.     
(C) Feedback and Steps  
1. The teacher needs to explain metaphorical meanings of textbook, Hawthorne’s personal 
background and so on.  
2. Reading significant contents of critical essays is needed.   
3. These participants must learn how to use flashcards and need to explore new “words, 
check spelling, expand their vocabulary” [9].   
Plot Analysis: The words and pictures are good teaching materials: “words are best at 
describing relationships of details, pictures best at giving a sense of the whole” [9].      
1. Two principle essences of Young Goodman Brown are presented as plot and character.   
2. The significant word metaphors—“faith” and “Goodman Brown”—are essential element.   
3. The word “faith” is relevant to the human spirit (the natural phenomenon) and his Faith 
國科會補助專題研究計畫出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                            日期：101 年 10 月 31 日 
一、參加會議經過 
In September 04-05, the investigator attended The EEM 2012, which is an international 
conference on Information Technology and System Integration. It took place in Hong Kong, 
on September 04-05, 2012. This conference covers a wide range of fields from engineering 
to curriculum designs, from theory to application and from software to hardware. The 
official language of the conference is English. There did appear novel interdisciplinary 
challenges transferable between plural fields. The technical program included Plenary and 
Invited Talks, Tutorial Courses, and Workshops, as well as Oral and Interactive Sessions. 
All the presented papers were included by CPCI-SSH. The investigator presented two 
papers in two different sessions chaired by the investigator. 
二、與會心得 
This community aimed at exploring social simulation from the viewpoint of 
transdisciplinary research and bringing researchers from different fields to discuss the same 
issue. For this purpose, EEM 2012 in particular, focuses on both the ideas from computer 
science as a new technology to provide insights into social science communities and the 
ideas coming from social sciences as new metaphors to provide insights into computer 
science community. It gathers mostly all well-known world researchers, who have much 
contributed to encourage this interdisciplinary research area by addressing past, present 
and future issues on social simulation, which widely cover the significant social simulation 
areas, including game theory, market and finance, auction, social networks, social models 
計畫編號 NSC 100-2221-E-194-008 
計畫名稱 Design Instrumentation to Measure Thermal Inductance via 
Anti-control Strategy 
出國人員
姓名 洪博雄 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立中正大學機械系 
副教授 
會議時間 
101 年 9 月 4 日
至 
101 年 9 月 5 日 
會議地點 
香港新界 
會議名稱 
(中文) 2012 第二屆工程暨工程管理國際研討會 
(英文) 2012 2nd International Conference on Engineering and 
Engineering Management (EEM 2012)  
發表題目 
(中文) 工程設計心靈拼圖與實驗證法 
(英文) Minding Experiments with Illustration and Word 
Metaphors for Engineering Design 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/11/01
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以反控制策略設計熱感量測儀器
計畫主持人: 洪博雄
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-194-008- 學門領域: 系統整合與工業應用 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 熱慣性量測儀
(英文) Thermal Inertia Instruments
成果歸屬機構
國立中正大學 發明人
(創作人)
洪博雄,周家宇,張建軒,鄭宇翔,
蕭庭晨
技術說明
(中文) 此熱慣性量測儀由以下三個主要模組合成: 
(1) 低頻即時信號產生器: 一般硬體震盪器，其低頻輸出相當不準確且不可靠，
而廣義功能電腦，其周邊介面傳輸過慢，無及時性。因此本實驗室採用內嵌式控
制器設計低頻即時信號產生器，來驅動光熱源，執行頻域量測。其中，即時正弦
波產生，為本實驗室開發的新技術，其引用迴授系統來合成極限震盪。 
(2) 高頻寬熱電耦溫度感測器: 一般溫度量測，無法兼顧量測速度與消除雜訊。
本實驗室開發 -manifold 方法來合成高階濾波器，並安裝於Microchip-dsPIC，
來快速追蹤訊號，並有效去除雜訊。 
(3) Matlab-to/from-dsPIC 開發平台: 以此工具，高階濾波器與信號產生器可
以由Matlab之mfiles來程式並安裝於dsPIC，以結合兩者的合成與安裝。 
(英文) (1) High-bandwidth thermal coupler temperature sensor: In typical temperature 
measurement, there is a significant trade-off between signal tracking and noises rejection. 
We will apply the -manifold method to design high-order filters, implemented into dsPIC 
to remove this trade-off. 
(2) Low-frequency real-timed signal generator: Low-frequency outputs of typical 
oscillators are inaccurate to the extent of measurement purpose, and meanwhile general-
purpose computers have no peripherals for fast outputs. With embedded controllers, we 
will design low-frequency real-timed signal generators, wherein the real-timed sinusoidal 
signals generation is programmed with hard-nonlinearity feedback that obtains limit 
cycles. 
(3) Matlab-to/from-dsPIC development platform: With this tool, high-order filters and 
signal generators can be programmed with Matlab mfiles and then implemented into 
dsPIC.
產業別
光學及精密器械製造業；度量衡器證明業；研究發展服務業；其他專業、科學及技術服
務業
技術/產品應用範圍
此量測儀用於以下工業: 
(1) 驗證熱慣性的存在，表示有一個狀態純量一直未被發現，因此，古典物理必須再加
一條守恆律，才能完備。 
(2) 新的有機物製程，如腫瘤移除與軟性電子製板，需重新思考熱慣性效應，以確保其
安全可靠。 
(3) 開發新的熱動能儲存器，即使於溫差極低的情形下，亦可逃脫熱力學二定理的傳統
束縛，將能量源源不絕以熱通量形式儲存。 
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
可以轉移整個熱感量測技術，或個別授權以下三項: 
1. 即時信號產生器韌體解決方案。 
2. 高頻寬熱電耦溫度感測器。 
3. Matlab-to/from-dsPIC 開發平台。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
