1. Introduction 
Solution-processable materials are attractive for application in electronic. 
Organic thin-film transistors (OTFT) have made impressive progress over the past ten 
years1). The requirements for such OTFT gate insulators are (1) relatively high 
dielectric constant, (2) excellent heat and chemical resistance, (3) Low leakage 
current density, (4) high breakdown and long-term stability (5) comparable with 
organic semiconductors in term of interfacial properties (6) film formed at low 
temperature, and (7) compatible with the subsequent processing of the device.  Most 
of the research on polymeric gate insulators has been oriented to meet those basic 
requirements needed to improve the performance of OTFTs, such as reducing the 
leakage current density and threshold voltage, increasing the current modulation ratio 
and mobility by modifying the surface properties, and changing the dielectric constant 
of the gate insulators2). A few polymers had used as gate dielectric for organic 
transistors. However, few of them met all the requirements3).  
In general, polymer gate dielectrics exhibit a relatively low dielectric constant,. 
The use of high-dielectric-constant gate dielectric seems promising for lowering the 
operation voltage. Most advanced is to add some high-k nano-particle inorganic 
powders such as TiO2, BaTiO3 into polymer to form a composite that has a high 
dielectric constant. Two previous studies on nano-compoiste as gate dielectric by 
Chen et al. and Jung et al.4,5) showed that, despite the fact that a higher Ion current 
were obtained for higher capacitance films (higher inorganic conctent), the Ion/Ioff 
ratios were both low (∼103). This result was attributed to the higher leakage currents 
density of nano-composite gate dielectrics due to high roughness of nano-composite 
gate dielectric film6) and the intrinsic high leakage current density of polymer 
(polystenene) that are considered. Obviously, the key point of fabricating a high k 
nanocomposite gate dielectric is how to obtain a low leakage current density of gate 
=114) particles into the polyimide matrix, which is able to be cured at 200°C. A 
homogeneous organic-inorganic slurry can be obtained, when the (1~5 vol%) nano- 
TiO2 particles, whose surfaces were further modified with 2 wt% dispersant 
(polysester) were dispersed very well in the γ - butyrolactone (solvent) and 
polyimide (Grade 5291) after ball milling for 48 hr with 1700rpm. The colloidal 
stability of nano-particle TiO2 powder dispersions can be easily determined by using 
sedimentation experiments.  2wt% disperant (polyester) concentration was chosen in 
our study after sedimentation experiments.  A few drops of organic-inorganic slurry 
were placed on the top of the glass substrate, which was rotated with a spin coater at 
1000 rpm for 10 s without arrested drying. The thickness of these insulators film is 
controlled between 400~500 nm. Then, the films were soft-baked in an oven at 80˚C 
for 5 min, followed by curing at 180˚C for 30 min. The ramp rate was maintained at 
4˚C min−1. After curing, the substrates were allowed to cool to room temperature 
naturally. To evaluate the dielectric properties such as dielectric constant, leakage 
current, a 1000-Å-thick Au electrode was thermally evaporated through the shadow 
mask on nanocomposite insulator for the source and drain contacts to form a 
metal-insulator-metal structure. The current-voltage (I-V) characteristics were 
measured with the HP 4156 semiconductor parameter analyzer and the C-V 
characteristics were performed using the HP 4284 impedance analyzer. All the 
measurements were performed in the dark and shielded condition.  
For the bottom-contact OTFT structure, pentacene film was deposited as an 
organic semiconductor layer at rate of Å /s on the nano-composite gate dielectric film 
under a base pressure of approximately 1.6 x10-6 Torr, and its thickness was about 
1000 Å. For the source and drain contacts, Au was thermally evaporated through 
another shadow mask with channel. All the OTFTs have the top-contact geometry, 
where the channel length (L) and width (W) are 240 and 480 µm, respectively. The 
3-2. Dielectric properties of gate dielectric film 
 The dielectric properties of the nanocomposite gate dielectric samples with different 
nano-TiO2 contents measured in the range of 100 Hz to 100 kHz is shown in Fig. 4. 
The results demonstrated that the dielectric constant increases with increasing TiO2 
content in polyimide, being situated in the range between 3 and 5. Dielectric constant 
of neat polyimide and nanocomposite gate dielectric with 5 vol% TiO2 content at 1 
KHz are 3.69 and 5, respectively. This suggests that addition of nano-TiO2 particle 
can promote significant change in dielectric constant because nano-TiO2 particle has a 
relatively high dielectric constant (k= 114). 
The form of Lichttenecker’s mixing rule is commonly known as the logarithmic 
mixing rule and provides a good approximation for composite system with mixed 
parallel and series contributions.       
log( kcomposite) =θ log( k1 ) + (1-θ) log (k2) 
Where k1 and k2 are the relative permittivities of the nano-TiO2 particle and polyimide 
matrix, respectively and θ is the volume fraction of the nano-TiO2 particle.  
Obviously, the logarithmic mixing rule is an appropriate expression for fitting the 
measured dielectric constant of nanocomposite when the concentration of the 
nano-TiO2 particle in polyimide is 1 or 2 vol%. However, the logarithmic mixing rule 
is poorly fitting the measured dielectric constant when the concentration of nano-TiO2 
particle in polyimide is more than 2 vol%. This result is associated with the 
microstructure of nanocomposite dielectric as shown in Fig. 3. When nano-TiO2 
content is less than 2 vol% in polyimide, the nano-TiO2 particles are homogeneous 
distribution in polyimide, so the Lichttenecker’s mixing rule is valid. However, when 
the content of nano-TiO2 content exceed 2 vol% in polyimide, there is an 
inhomogeneous distribution of nano-TiO2 particles in polyimide, leading to a poor fit 
with Lichttenecker’s mixing rule when the content of nano TiO2 particles. The reason 
nanocomposite gate dielectrics with various TiO2 concentration. It is notice that OTFT 
with nanocomposite gat dielectric with 5 vol% TiO2 content shows unsaturated output 
characteristics even at a drain bias of -50V.  
 The electrical properties of OTFT, such as on/off ratio, mobility, threshold 
voltage and subthreshold swing were extracted and summarized in Table II. A very 
promising performance of on/off ratio (>105) is observed on the pentacene deposited 
on the neat polyimide and the nanocomposie gate dielectrics with 1-2 vol% TiO2 
content. However, On/off ratio was decreased abruptly when pentacene was deposited 
on the nanocomposite with higher content of TiO2 (>3 wt%). The drain current at 
positive gate voltage might come from leakage through gate dielectric when a positive 
voltage was applied from +20 to -10 voltage. Therefore, the difference in the on/off 
ratio of OTFT devices in our study is attributed to leakage current density of gate 
dielectrics. It indicates that a strong correlation between the morphology and the 
leakage current density of gate dielectric film is reflected in the OTFT device 
performance. Compared with those shown in previous studies on nanocomposite gate 
dielectric10), the on-off ratio of the pentacene OTFT device deposited on the 
nanocomposite gate dielectric is always much worse than that deposited on the neat 
polymer gate dielectric. However, in our work, because nano-TiO2 particles were 
dispersed well in polyimide to form a homogeneous nanocomposite film, the leakage 
current density of the nanocomposite is comparable to that of the neat polyimide, 
resulting in a high on-off ratio ( >105) of the OTFT device.     
As can be seen in Table II, as the dielectric constant increases with increasing 
TiO2 content in the nanocomposite gate dielectric, the saturation mobility of 
pentacene increases slightly from 0.118 to a range within 0.17~0.181, depending on  
TiO2 content in the nanocomposite gate dielectric. According to previous studies on 
pentacene OTFTs11), the high mobility is closely correlated with the well ordered 
decreases markedly from 3 to 0.3μm, which represents an increased portion of grain 
boundaries in a film as the roughness of the dielectric increases. Several recent studies 
on pentacene TFTs showed that high mobility is correlated with the small crystalline 
domains, resulting in a more efficient charge transfer through better connected and 
lower angle grain boundaries13). The results of studies are consistent with those of 
previous studies.  
The crystallinity of pentacene deposited on different gate dielectrics was 
examined by XRD. Fig. 8(a) shows the diffraction pattern of pentacene deposited on 
the neat polyimide gate dielectric that consists mainly of one phase with the 
first-order diffraction peak at 5.73°corresponding to the thin film phase and the 
second-order diffraction peak at 6.10° corresponding to the bulk phase. The mobility 
of pentacene is dominated by the thin-film phase14). Figure 8(b) to 8(d) show the 
X-ray diffraction patterns of the pentacene film deposited on various nanocomposite 
gate dielectrics. Clearly, only the substrate-induced thin-film phase was observed and 
the triclinic bulk phase is not observed. In addition, it is noteworthy that with the 
further an increase in TiO2 content in the nanocomposite film, the intensity of the 
first–order diffraction peak decreases. This result indicates that the ordering of 
pentacene molecules perpendicular to the substrate direction decreases significantly 
with increasing the TiO2 content in the nanocomposite gate dielectric film owing to 
increasing roughness of the gate dielectric film. A decrease in the grain size of 
pentacene, resulting in a change in the diffraction peak from the bulk phase towards 
the thin phase, was observed for the pentacene deposited on the nanocomposite gate 
dielectric. As a result, the enhanced mobility of pentacene deposited on the 
nanocompoiste gate dielectric may be mainly due to the well ordered crystallinity of 
the thin film phase.              
Figure 9 shows gate bias dependence of mobility. The slopes of the Id0.5 versus Vg 
phase of pentacene and more efficient charge transfer through better connected and 
lower angle grain boundaries 
Reference 
1. Z. Bao, A. Dodabalapur and A. J. Lovinger,” Soluble and processable regioregular 
poly(3-hexylthiophene) for thin film filed-effect transistor applications with high 
mobility”, Appl. Phys. Lett. 69(1996) 4108. 
2. A. Facchetti, M.H. Yoon and T. J. Marks,” Gate Dielectric for organic field-effcet 
transistors: New opportunities for organic electronics”, Adv. Mater. 15, (2005) 
1705. 
3. M. Halik, H. Klauk, U. Zschieschang, G Schmid, W. Radlik and W. Weber,” 
Polymer Gate Dielectric and Conducting- Polymer Contacts for 
High-Performance Organic Thin-Film Transistor”, Adv. Mater. 14 (2002) 1717.  
4. F. Chen, C. W. Chu, J He and Y. Yang,” Organic thin-film transistors with 
nanocomposite dielectric gate insulator”, App. Phys. Lett. Vol 85 (2004) 3295. 
5. C. Jung, A. Ma;iakai, A. Sidorenko and T. Siegrist”, Pentacene-based thin-film 
transistors with titanium oxide-polystyrene/ polystyrene insulator blends: High 
mobility on high K dielectric films”, App. Phys. Lett. 90 (2007) 062111   
6. S. Y. Yang, S. H. Kim, K. Shin, H. Jeon and C.E. Park,” Low-voltage pentacene 
field –effect transistors with ultrathin polymer gate dielectric”, App. Phys. Lett. 88  
( 2006) 173507. 
7. K.N. N. Unni, S. D. Seignon and J. M. Nunzi,” Improved performance of 
pentacene field-effcet transistors using a polyimide gate dielectric layer”, J. Phys 
D: Appl. Phys. 38 ( 2005) 1148. 
8. M. Yooon, H. Yan, A. Facchetti and T. J. Marks,” Low voltage organic field-effect 
transistors and inverters enabled by ultrathin cross-linked polymers as gate 
dielectric”, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 127 (2005) 10388. 
  
Table list 
1. Table I. : Properties of MIM with TiO2-PI nanocomposite insulators  
2. Table II: Electrical characteristics of pentacene TFTs  with nanocomposite 
insulator prepared with various TiO2-PI ratios. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table II 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. Fig. 8 X-ray diffraction patterns of pentacene films grown on various TiO2-PI 
nanocomposite insulators 
 
9. Fig. 9 DI -Vg characteristics of pentacene TFTs prepared with various TiO2-PI 
ratios 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.1. (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 (c) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Fig. 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
