 1
INTRODUCTION 
Precast fabricators of engineered-to-order products face numerous challenges as they strive for 
business success. Among them, changes in required delivery dates (demand variability) are 
arguably the biggest headache (Ko and Ballard 2005, Ballard and Arbulu 2004). In the precast 
industry, customer satisfaction is measured by on-time delivery. Late delivery can interrupt 
erection progress and therefore induces delays. Besides, consequences of late delivery include 
penalty of contract breaking and deterioration of business reputation. To delivery products on 
time or to delivery products whenever customers need them, fabricators start to production once 
they received design information. Unfortunately, since construction site may not have enough 
space to pre-store precast elements, customers often change delivery dates corresponding to 
erection/construction progress. As a result, numerous finished goods are stored in the yard 
waiting to be delivered (finished goods inventory).  
One of the ways to protect fabricators against the impact of demand variability is to finish 
production later relative to required delivery dates, thus reducing the risk of changes in delivery 
dates, and reducing the risk of producing product that is either not yet needed or falls victim to 
design changes (Ko and Ballard 2004). However, how later relative to required delivery dates is 
appropriate for fabricators to delivery products on time and to reduce the level of finished goods 
inventory? Under an invariable environment, the answer is certain. Unfortunately, variability 
such as material supply not on time, productivity lose, unplanned machine down time, variation 
of setup times (molds), etc. is everywhere in the precast production system. The answer is 
different when circumstances change. 
According to buffering law, systems with variability must be buffered by some combination 
of inventory, capacity, and time (Hopp and Spearman 2000). The root method to solve problems 
induced by variability is to remove variability. Nevertheless, totally removing variability may 
take forever. Toyota took 25 years (from the 1940s to the late 1960s) of constant attention to 
reduce setups from three hours to three minutes. Precast fabricators should constantly pay 
attention to reduce variability. In the mean while, before variability is totally been removed, 
proper buffers are necessary for fabricators to protect themselves from the impact of demand 
variability. To deliver products on time (or Just-In-Time), a time buffer with relatively less 
inventory is needed. Otherwise, precast fabricators lose capacity due to overtime vicious cycle 
induced by variability.  
Uncertain and imprecise information are encountered while evaluating time buffer. In practice, 
factors inducing variability are difficult to be quantified. As a result, the development of 
mathematical model for buffer evaluation is complex and time consuming. Fuzzy Logic (FL) has 
been proven as an effective method to process uncertain information and complex systems. 
Chang (1999) considered production inventory in a fuzzy sense. The investigator represented 
uncertain product quantity using a triangular fuzzy number. In One-of-a-Kind Product (OKP) 
manufacturing systems, customers usually have different degrees of satisfaction with the due date. 
To clearly describe the problem, Wang et al. (1999) developed an algorithm for Just-In-Time (JIT) 
production planning with a fuzzy due date. To considering the characteristics of an environment 
 3
This basic assumption has been questioned. Unlike classical logic, fuzzy logic is viewed as an 
extension of multi-valued conventional logic.  
FL simulates the high-level human decision-making process, which aims at modelling the 
imprecise modes of reasoning to make rational decisions in an environment of uncertainty and 
imprecision. It provides approximate but effective descriptions for highly complex, ill-defined, or 
difficult-to-analyze mathematical systems. A general Fuzzy Logic System (FLS) contains four 
major components: fuzzifier, inference engine, rule base, and defuzzifier, as shown in Figure 1. 
Details about each component are discussed in BEM section.  
Fuzzy rule base
Fuzzy sets
Fuzzifier Fuzzy inference engine Defuzzifier
Crisp 
input
Crisp 
output
Defuzzification methodsFuzzy operators
Fuzzy logic system
Control flow: Required object:System object:
Legend
Data flow:
 
Figure 1: General Schema of a Typical Fuzzy Logic System 
BUFFER EVALUATION MODEL (BEM) 
The BEM is developed using fuzzy logic. The study explains the development of BEM by its 
components.  
FUZZIFIER 
Fuzzifier is a process of converting input values into degrees of linguistic variables. During this 
scale mapping, membership functions are used to define the relationships between input variables 
and linguistic variables. Demand variability, so called because it originates with the customer, 
causes fabricators to risk the loss of capacity or increases inventory costs (Ballard and Arbulu 
2004). Reasons inducing demand variability are complex and situation depended. However, some 
features of a project indeed have more chances inducing demand variability. Through 
interviewing with the experts, three factors are identified: 1) function of the building, 2) 
ownership, and 3) type of used precast element. The distribution of membership function for 
ownership is illustrated in Figure 2. In the figure, three linguistic variables i.e. few ownerships, 
some ownerships, and many ownerships are used to describe the input variable ownership. Each 
linguistic variable is represented using a distribution. For example, the meaning for “few 
ownerships” can be described using a trapezoid. The degree for one ownership of the distribution 
is 1.0. Three ownerships for the few ownership distribution are 0.0. Another linguistic variable 
“some ownerships” is described using a distribution of triangle. For the distribution, the degrees 
of one ownership and five ownerships are 0, whereas three is 1.0. Distributions for all input 
variables are defined through experts according to their knowledge and experience.  
 5
MaxIf part Then part
Min
Ownership
Rule 1 …
Element
Many Structure
Demand Variability
Large
Ownership
Rule 2 …
Element
Many Wall
Demand Variability
…
Small
 
Figure 3: Min-Max Composition  
DEFUZZIFIER 
Defuzzifier is a reversing process of fuzzifier, which produces a crisp output from fuzzy 
inference. This research uses the most common defuzzification namely center of area to defuzzify 
an aggregative result. The method is demonstrated in Figure 4. It identifies required time buffer 
for demand variability. The larger the demand variability, the later the fabrication should be. 
Thus reducing the risk of producing product falls victim to demand variability such as design 
changes. Suppose fuzzy inference engine concludes two results from two fuzzy rules. Area A 
shown in Figure 4 denotes medium demand variability whereas B denotes large demand 
variability. To conclude a result from those two distributions, the center of areas A and B (shown 
as c) is calculated. Note that overlapped region of A and B is only counted for once. The center is 
used to represent an inference result for all fuzzy rules. In the figure, a time buffer for delivering 
products on time with relatively less finished goods inventory is about 1.5 weeks.  
Large Medium
Weeks
21 3
A
B
c
Demand Variability  
Figure 4: Center of Area Defuzzification 
 
 7
Applying fuzzy values shown in Table 3 to nine fuzzy rules illustrated in Table 1, buffers for 
each story can be obtained. Inference results are summarized in Table 4. Observing the table, 
buffers for each story are 14 days since input values are the same for every story. According to 
the results, fabrication due dates can be obtained.  
Table 4: Buffer for Each Story 
Story Buffer 
B1F 14 Days 
1F 14 Days 
M1F 14 Days 
2F 14 Days 
3F 14 Days 
4F 14 Days 
RF 14 Days 
The estimated fabrication due dates, actual erection dates, and actual fabrication finished dates 
are compared in Figure 5. Observing the figure, the evaluated fabrication due dates are much 
closer to erection dates, which provides a better result to the current practice. An average 16% 
finished goods inventory is reduced by the proposed method.  
0
20
40
60
80
100
5/13 7/2 8/21 10/10 11/29 1/18
Date
C
om
pl
et
io
n(
%
) 
Erection Dates
Evaluated Fabrication Due Dates
Actual Fabrication Finished Dates
  
Figure 5: Comparisons of Erection Dates and Fabrication Due Dates 
CONCLUSIONS 
This paper has briefly introduced concepts of developing the Buffer Evaluation Model (BEM). 
To protect precast fabricators against the impact of demand variability, fabrication due dates are 
pulled later relative to required delivery dates. A time buffer is then analyzed using fuzzy logic to 
avoid fabricators losing capacity.  
Most precast fabricators produce products using a mass production way. The application case 
shows that the proposed method pulling the fabrication due dates later relative to required 
delivery dates can significantly reduce inventory level. In addition, the impact induced by the 
demand variability can be decreased, due to a relatively certain erection dates and a relatively 
clear construction status.  
 9
PUBLICATION 
Partial research results of the study have been published at 14th Annual Conference of the 
International Group for Lean Construction. The principle investigator is preparing for publishing 
full research findings to an international journal. 
Ko, C. H. (2006). “Buffer Evaluation for Demand Variability Using Fuzzy Logic.” 
Proceeding of the 14th Annual Conference of the International Group for Lean Construction, 
Santiago, Chile, 255-264. 
SELF-EVALUATION ON RESEARCH RESULTS 
The study was conducted according to the research methodology presented in the proposal. 
However, a few steps were modified due to difficulties encountered in data collection. The 
primary objective addressed in the proposal was completed achieved. Partial research results have 
been published in an international conference. The principle investigator is preparing for 
publishing full research findings to an international journal. Patents regarding the study may be 
submitted in the research phase II. This research is one of the first investigations applying lean 
ideas in precast fabrication. More research findings will be reported in the near future on research 
phase II. 
 
 
