      
 2
附件 
A Real-time Motor-driven High-intensity Focused Ultrasound 
Ablation System  
Abstract: For this study, we built a real-time step-motor driven system with dual transducers 
operating simultaneously. The high-intensity focused ultrasound transducer operated at 1.1 MHz 
and was used to produce thermal lesion at a certain position inside a gel phantom. The diagnostic 
ultrasound probe, confocal with the therapeutic transducer, was used to locate the target region and 
monitor the ablation results. We successfully perform a sample ablation of a 2 cm x 2 cm square 
array using custom-designed LabView programs. The ablation time and cooling interval are 40 s 
and 100 s, respectively. 
  
1. INTRODUSTION 
High intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU), a precise and minimally-invasive treatment 
technique, is becoming a more popular approach for tumor ablation. The main aim of the HIFU 
treatment is to raise the temperature of the target area to a critical level that causes tissue 
coagulation or necrosis. Recent studies have shown the potential of HIFU for several applications, 
such as treatments of liver tumor (Kennedy et al., 2004), prostate benign hyperplasia (Sanghvi et al., 
1999), prostate cancer (Vallancien et al., 2004), breast cancer (Huber et al., 2001), kidney cancer 
(Wu et al., 2003), uterine fibroids (Stewart et al., 2003). In this report, we briefly describe the 
development and ablation results of our lab by an ultrasound-guided HIFU ablation system. 
 
2. MATERIAL AND METHODS 
2.1. System description 
Figure 1 shows a schematic of the system setup. Single-element focused piezoelectric 
transducer of 1.1-MHz center frequency was used as source of acoustic waves. Its diameter and 
curvature are 6.4 cm and 6.26 cm, respectively. HIFU ablation experiments were performed in a 25 
× 25 × 15-cm acrylic water tank containing degassed water. A 15 × 15-cm square area at the 
bottom of the acrylic water tank was replaced with the polyethylene membrane allowing the 
ultrasound wave to propagate. The sample was placed on an acrylic platform and adhered to the 
polyethylene membrane. The membrane sample interface was filled with ultrasound gel. 
Radiofrequency signals from a function generator (33250A, Agilent, Palo Alto, CA, USA) were 
amplified by a power amplifier (150A250, Amplifier Research, Souderton, PA, USA), and the 
incident and reflected powers were measured using a power meter (4421, Bird, Cleveland, OH, 
USA). A diagnostic US imager (TITAN, SonoSite, Bothell, WA, USA) with a scan applicator 
(L38/10-5, 7.5 MHz) mounted on an adjustable holder with the HIFU transducer and was aligned to 
image the focal spot of HIFU transducer. A 3-deminsional motor system was used to provide the 
mechanical movement of HIFU transducer and the diagnostic US probe. The function generator and 
      
 4
 
Figure 2：. Experimental setup for determining the 1.1-MHz HIFU transducer focus 
 
1.3 HIFU ablation 
To ablate a large tumor without damage the surrounding tissue, large lesion was 
achieved by heating several single lesions sequentially. To prevent damages to the 
surrounding tissue, a cooling interval was needed immediately after each single lesion 
ablation. Figure 3 illustrated a 2 × 2-cm target region and the heating sequence of single 
lesions. The gap between each single lesion was 0.5 cm. Each single lesion was sonicated 
for 40 seconds with electric power level at about 63 watts. The cooling interval between 
each single lesion was 100 seconds. In HIFU ablation experiment, fresh pork was obtained 
from a butcher half hour before the experiment. 
  
Figure 3： Target region and the heating sequence of single lesions 
Inserted 
needle 
 
      
 6
 
Figure 5：After ablation, (a) no obvious lesion was found on the surface of a port block. (b) 
A square-shaped lesion is clearly seen 1 cm beneath the pork surface. (c) The pork was 
sliced into five parts, and (d) the distance from the pork surface to the lesion area on each 
slice is increasing from right to the left side 
 
4. REFERENCES 
 
1. Huber P E, Jenne J W, Rastert R, Simiantonakis I, Sinn H P, Strittmatter H J, von Fournier D, 
Wannenmacher M F and Debus J 2001 A new noninvasive approach in breast cancer therapy 
using magnetic resonance imaging-guided focused ultrasound surgery Cancer Res. 61 8441-7 
2. Kennedy J E, Wu F, ter Haar G R, Gleeson F V, Phillips R R, Middleton M R and Cranston D 
2004 High-intensity focused ultrasound for the treatment of liver tumours Ultrasonics 42 
931-5 
3. Lafon C, Zderic V, Noble M L, Yuen J C, Kaczkowski P J, Sapozhnikov O A, Chavrier F, 
Crum L A, Vaezy S 2005 Gel phantom for use in high-intensity focused ultrasound dosimetry. 
Ultrasound Med. Biol. 31 1383–9 
4. Sanghvi N T, Foster R S, Bihrle R, Casey R, Uchida T, Phillips M H, Syrus J, Zaitsev A V, 
Marich K W and Fry F J 1999 Noninvasive surgery of prostate tissue by high intensity focused 
ultrasound: an updated report Eur. J. Ultrasound 9 19-29 
(a) (b)
(c) (d)
