 2 
 
Integration of Lidar and Photogrammetric Image data for 
Building Reconstruction and its Quality Analysis 
  
     NSC 98－2221－E－006－218 
     Period: 2009/08/01 ~ 2010/07/3 
     Project director: R.J. You 
     Main research assistant:  B.C. Lin,  C.L. Lee,  A.C. Lee 
     National Cheng Kung University 
 
Abstract 
 
This study integrates LiDAR data and the building production from photogrammetric photos and predicts the 
quality of 3D building model reconstruction.  We first use the Tensor Voting algorithm and scan line 
grouping method to extract building roof planes and structural lines from LiDAR data, and a robust least 
squares method is applied to register LiDAR data with building outlines obtained from building production 
from photogrammetric photos. A new quality indicator of data fusion based on the tensor analysis of residuals 
is derived in order to evaluate the quality of the reconstruction of 3D building models.  
 
Keywords: LiDAR, data fusion, tensor analysis, quality. 
 
 
摘要： 
 
本研究整合光達及航測影像產品以進行 3D 的建物模型重建。我們應用我們首先以張量投票演算法和
掃描線演算法兩種從資料中萃取線特徵資訊，再以重覆漸進的穏健估計法來整合此兩種資料於同一坐
標系統之下。同時基於殘差向量分析法發展出一個的建物模型重建的品質指標，以確保建物模型的品
質。 
 
關鍵字：光達、資料融合、張量分析、品質 
  
1. Introduction 
 
The LiDAR technique is extensively adopted for quickly acquiring a large number of high quality point 
clouds with three-dimensional coordinates and is becoming widely used in numerous applications [1-4]. 
Although LiDAR data can provide an accurate representation of terrain and building surfaces, accurate 
building boundary extraction from such data may be difficult due to its poor texture information. In contrast, 
building outline on topographic maps produced normally by Photogrammetry have very good 2D building 
boundary information, but in general no accurate height information for the building surfaces. Therefore, data 
fusion involving both data sets can improve the 3D building model reconstruction process, especially in terms 
of the time required. Many researchers have integrated these two strongly complementary data types to 
effectively reconstruct 3D building models [5-8]. 
 
For Integration of these two data sets, boundary LiDAR points of building roof patches and building outlines 
are needed. In this study, we extract building features, namely roof patches, ridge lines, and their boundary 
points by tensor voting method (TVM). Building outlines are readily apparent features and easily obtained 
from a digital map file or GIS after the photogrammetric work. A 2D registration by the robust least squares 
method (RLS) is adopted to determine the transformation parameters in this study. To automatically detect 
incorrectly reconstructed 3D building models, the tensor analysis based on the residuals of boundary point 
 4 
 Actual buildings Tensor analysis 
Constructed 
models 
Description 
A 
 
 
 
Building with a slanted roof plane. The 
outlines of boundary LiDAR points are 
different from the building outlines. This 
may occur in buildings covered by trees 
etc. 
B 
 
 
 
Two adjoining buildings with flat roof 
planes. The building outlines of these two 
buildings are drawn together with one 
outline. The border line between these 
two buildings is not drawn in the 
topographic map. 
C 
 
 
 
Some small buildings on top of a big 
building. The outlines of the small 
buildings are not drawn in the 
topographic map. 
D 
 
 
 
Building with a ridge and hips. Referring 
to the boundary points, it appears that the 
important structural lines, like hips, are 
fully covered by trees etc. 
 
Figure 1. Tensor analysis after registration and the results of building model reconstruction 
 
 
Although the estimated standard deviation 0σˆ  obtained after the iterative RLS is the entire quality indicator 
of adjustment computation, it is not suitable to represent the registration quality of individual buildings, since 
to evaluate the quality of individual buildings after registration is both important and useful for model 
reconstruction. Residual tensor ellipses presented here not only reveal the registration quality of individual 
buildings, but also can be as quality predictors for the results of building model reconstruction.  
 
5. Experiment and Registration result 
 
The experimental area of about 350 x 500 m
2 
used here contains 109 buildings. The topographic map for this 
area was produced from the aerial images using the photogrammetric method. The map scale was 1:1000. 
This map had two versions: one used the Hu-Tzi-Shan horizontal geodetic datum (TWD67), and the other the 
new Taiwan geodetic datum (TWD97). The former version is called Map67 and the latter is Map97 in this 
study. Some of the control points have both TWD67 and TWD97 coordinates. A set of Helmert transformation 
parameters for TWD67 and TWD97 coordinates is determined by these common control points and These 
transformation parameters are used as checking data for the following registration. 
 
An airborne LiDAR dataset for this experimental area was acquired by Optech ALTM 30/70. The flying 
height for the laser scanning was 500 m AGL. The average LiDAR point density was 6 pts./m
2
. The horizontal 
and vertical precision was about 25 cm and 15 cm respectively. This dataset, here called LiDAR97, was 
produced in May 2006 and its datum was TWD97. The system Map67, which provided building outlines, and 
LiDAR97, which provided boundary LiDAR points, 3D surface segments and ridge lines, were adopted for 
registration.  
 
After registration using the RLS method, the value of the estimated standard deviation 0ˆ  is equal to 0.58m. 
By comparing them Map67-LiDAR97 and the check data TWD67-TWD97 with the given coordinates of the 
 6 
 
Reference 
 
[1] K. McIntosh and A. Krupnik, "Integration of laser-drived DSMs and matched image   
     edges for generating an accurate surface model," ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry   and Remote 
Sensing, vol. 56, pp. 167-176, 2002. 
[2] C, Wang, M. Menenti, M.-P. Stoll, A. Feola, E. Belluco, and M. Marani, "Separation of ground and low 
vegetation signatures in LiDAR measure- ments of salt-marsh environments," IEEE transactions on 
geoscience and remote sensing, vol. 47, pp. 2014-2023, 2009. 
[3] D. M. Cobby, D. C. Mason, and I. J. Davenport, "Image processing of airborne scanning laser altimetry 
data for improved river flood modelling," ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, vol. 
56, pp. 121-138, 2001. 
[4] H. G. Maas and G. Vosselman, "Two algorithms for extracting building models from raw laser altimetry 
data," ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, vol. 54, pp. 153-163, 1999. 
[5] L. Chen, T. Teo, J. Rau, J. Liu, and W. Hsu, "Building reconstruction from LIDAR data and aerial 
imagery," in International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium, 2005, pp. 2846-2849. 
[6] D. H. Lee, K. M. Lee, and S. U. Lee, "Fusion of Lidar and Imagery for Reliable Building Extraction," 
Photogrammetric Engineering and Remote Sensing, vol. 74, p. 215, 2008. 
[7] N. Haala and C. Brenner, "Generation of 3D city models from airborne laser scanning data," in 
Proceedings EARSEL Workshop on LIDAR remote sensing on land and sea, Tallinn, Estonia, 1997. 
[8] G. Vosselman and S. Dijkman, "3D building model reconstruction from point clouds and ground plans," 
International Archives of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, vol. 34, pp. 37-43, 2001. 
[9] G. Medioni, M. S. Lee, and C. K. Tang, A computational framework for segmentation and grouping: 
Elsevier Science, New York, 2000. 
[10] H. Klein and W. Förstner, "Realization of automatic error detection in the block adjustment program 
PAT-M43 using robust estimators," International Archives of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, vol. 
25, pp. 234-245, 1984. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表 
日期：   年  月  日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱： 
計畫主持人：         
計畫編號：             領域： 
研發成果名稱 
（中文） 
（英文） 
成果歸屬機構 
 發明人 
(創作人) 
 
技術說明 
（中文） 
 
 
 
（200-500字） 
（英文） 
產業別 
 
技術/產品應用範圍 
 
技術移轉可行性及預期
效益 
 
     註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
 
附件三 
 10 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下赴國外(或大陸地區)出差或研習心得報告 
                                     日期：   年   月   日 
                                 
一、國外(大陸)研究過程 
二、研究成果 
三、建議 
四、其他 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
計畫編號 NSC  －    －  －    －    － 
計畫名稱  
出國人員
姓名 
 
服務機構
及職稱 
 
出國時間 
 年 月 日至 
 年 月 日 
出國地點  
附件五 
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
博士生 0 2 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100%  
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本計畫之部份成果曾發表中國際航遙測學會 ISPRS 百年研討會上，會後被邀請
將該篇論文再補充，投稿至 Sensors 系列期刊中的航遙測期刊中，目前正在撰
寫中。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
