 2  
plating sequence of Ni and Ni-diamond nanocomposite, the fabricated thermal bimetallic 
microactuators desired to have upward or downward displacement can be easily achieved. 
 
三、 研究方法 
PRINCIPLE AND CONCEPT DESIGN 
A schematic illustration of thermal bimetallic microactuator made of Ni and Ni-diamond 
nanocomposite is shown in Fig. 1.  As temperature elevated, the fabricated thermal bimetallic 
microactuator bends due to the CTE mismatch between Ni and Ni-diamond nanocomposite.  
Upon the plating sequence of Ni and Ni-diamond nanocomposite, two deflection types of the 
thermal bimetallic microactuators, including upward and downward displacement types, are 
available. 
In Fig. 1, the designed length (L) of fabricated thermal bimetallic microactuators is from 
200 µm to 1500 µm where the width (w) is fixed at 50 µm.  The connection beam between 
two bimorphs is 50 µm long (Lc) and 30 µm wide (wc).  The thickness of Ni and Ni-diamond 
nanocomposite layers are determined according to the optimum tip deflection (d) from: 
)232(2)()(
)(3
2
221
2
1212121
22
222
22
111
2
21212121
ttttttEEwwtEwtEw
LTttttEEww
d
++⋅++
⋅∆⋅∆⋅+⋅
=
α
          (1) 
where the indexes 1 and 2 mean the material 1 of bottom layer and material 2 of top layer in 
bimetallic microactuator.  The E, w, t, L, are the Young’s modulus, width, thickness and 
length of each layer of bimorph, respectively.  ∆α is the CTE difference between bonding 
materials, and ∆T is the temperature change. 
Before layer thickness determination of thermal bimetallic microactuators, cantilevers 
made of single layer of Ni and Ni-diamond nanocomposite are also fabricated to verify the 
CTE mismatch.  By an in-house CTE measurement system, CTEs of Ni and Ni-diamond are 
found to be 15.6 ×10-6/°C and 19.4 ×10-6/°C, respectively.  The Young’s modulus of Ni and 
Ni-diamond are also found to be 190 GPa and 230 GPa, respectively.  For the upward type 
bimetallic microactuator, the material 1 is set as Ni-diamond and the material 2 is set as Ni.  
As L = 1000 µm, ∆T = 50 K and Ni-diamond layer thickness t1 fixed to be 6 µm, the 
calculated tip deflections from equation (1) as function of Ni layer thickness are shown in Fig. 
2.  From calculation result, the Ni layer thickness t2 is chosen to be 3 µm thick.  With similar 
process, for downward type, the thickness of Ni and Ni-diamond layers are 3 µm and 6 µm, 
respectively. 
 
FABRICATION PROCESS 
Fabrication process of the proposed thermal bimetallic microactuators is illustrated in 
Fig. 3.  Initially, the 5 µm thick AZP-4620 photoresist (PR) is coated and patterned as 
sacrificial layer on 0.5 µm thick SiO2 (Fig. 3(a)).  This is followed by sputtering seed layer of 
1000 Å Cu onto 200 Å Ti as adhesion layer.  15 µm thick AZP-4620 PR is then spin coated 
and patterned to form the plating mold, as shown in Fig. 3(b).  For upward type, the 
composite-plating of Ni-diamond with 6 µm thick is deposited firstly and constructed the 
bottom layer of thermal bimetallic micro-actuator.  Subsequently, electroplating of Ni with 3 
µm thick is deposited and constructed the top layer (Fig. 3(c)).  The plating temperatures of 
both layers are 50 ℃.  Finally, the fabricated thermal bimetallic microactuators are released 
after stripping the sacrificial layer by acetone solution and the silicon underneath is removed 
by KOH solution (Fig. 3(d)).  For downward type, the fabrication process is similar except 
switching the plating sequence of Ni-diamond and Ni in Fig. 3(c) 
Fig. 4 shows the scanning electron microscope (SEM) pictures of fabricated thermal 
bimetallic microactuators of upward type (Fig. 4(a)) and downward type (Fig. 4(b)).  It can be 
seen that initial deformations are not evident. 
 4  
actuators are Ni-based, the bonding strength between Ni and Ni-diamond nanocomposite is 
verified to be strong from vibration and thermal cycling test. 
 
五、 圖表 
 
 
Fig. 1. Schematic illustration of thermal bimetallic microactuator. 
 
Ni-diamond thickness: 6µm
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
Ni layer thickness t2 (µm)
T
ip
 d
e
fl
e
c
ti
o
n
 d
 (
µ
m
)
 
Fig. 2. Calculated tip deflection of thermal bimetallic microactuator for layer thickness determination. (∆T = 50 
K, L = 1000 µm). 
 6  
 
 
Fig. 5. Schematic diagram of set-up for static thermal response measurement of thermal bimetallic 
microactuators. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 6. Static thermal response measurement results in terms of the tip deflection of thermal bimetallic 
microactuators at different temperature: (a) upward type; (b) downward type. 
 8  
 
Fig 9. Comparison of resonant frequency before and after 1,000 thermal cycles. 
 
 
Fig 10. Comparison of thermal tip deflection before and after 1,000 thermal cycles. 
 
六、 參考文獻 
 
[1] W-H Chu, M. Mehregany, and R. L. Mullen, “Analysis of tip deflection and force of a 
bimetallic cantilever microactuator,” J. Micromech. Microeng., vol. 3, pp.4-7, 1993. 
[2] H. Sehr, A. G. Evans, A. Brunnschweiler, G. J. Ensell, and T. E. Niblock, “Fabrication 
and test of thermal vertical bimorph actuators for movement in the wafer plane,” J. 
Micromech. Microeng., vol. 11, pp. 306-310, 2001.  
[3] S-H Lim, J. Choi, R. Horowitz, and A. Majumdar, “Design and Fabrication of a Novel 
Bimorph Microoptomechanical Sensor,” J. Micro- electromechanical System., vol. 14, 
pp.683-690, 2005. 
 出席國際學術會議報告 
 
會議名稱：2007年第二屆奈微米工程分子系統研討會 
IEEE-NEMS 2007 
The 2nd Annual IEEE International Conference on Nano/Micro 
Engineered and Molecular Systems 
 
時間：2007年 1月 16日至 1月 19日 
地點：泰國曼谷 Bangkok, Thailand 
報告人：交通大學機械系 徐文祥 
 
 
一、會議內容 
第二屆 IEEE奈微米工程分子系統研討會(IEEE-NEMS)，於 2007
年 1月 16日至 2007年 1月 19日，為期四天，在泰國曼谷舉辦。 
IEEE-NEMS 是 IEEE 奈米技術委員會 (IEEE Nanotechnology 
Council)下重要的會議之一。此一會議集合了世界領先的微機電(mems)
與奈米技術(nanotechnology)最新研究成果；並提供一平台，供世界各
地學者、研究人員於此相關領域發表、交換研究心得和技術上的切
磋。 
今年 IEEE-NEMS 研討會邀請的 Plenary Lecture 講者有五位，分
別是：Prof. Albert P. PISANO (University of California at Berkeley)、
Prof. Satoshi KAWATA (Osaka University)、Dr. Don EIGLER (IBM)、
Dr. M. MEYYAPPAN (NASA)、 Prof. Michael STUKE(Maw Plank 
Institute)；此外，還有 Special Invited Speakers 有 Prof. Liwei LIN 
(University of California at Berkeley) 共八位，演講內容涵蓋微機電、
奈米、生醫技術及分子系統，相當豐富；而且會議流程也安排的相當
多元、紮實。 
會議進行的每日上午，於 Plenary Lecture和 Invited Talk之後，則
有四個 session同時進行，會議內容主要分為以下主題︰ 
1. Micro/Nano Fabrication 
2. Nanorobotics/Nanoassembly  
3. Micro/Nano Sensors&Actuators 
4. Molecular Self-assembly  
Automation Research。繼Prof. Albert P. Pisano演講後，接續仍有
Prof. Satoshi KAWATA的受邀演講。在受邀演講完畢後，則是
此次大會獲選Top10的「最佳論文(Best Paper)」發表。 
 
2007.1.18 
會議早上仍有邀請MEMS界著名的大師演講。而此天早上有三
位本實驗室學生的論文發表(Oral)，分別是： 
1. Thermal Bimetallic Microactuators by Ni and Ni-diamond 
Nanocomposite (Chia-Sheng Huang, 黃家聖) 
2. Fabrication of 3D Photoresist Microstructures for the Polymer 
Vertical Comb Drive (Junwei Chung, 鍾君煒) 
 
3. Realizing Temperature-Controlled Digital Microfluidic Chips 
with Versatile Microelectrodes (Jen-Hung Wei, 魏仁宏) 
其發表完後的發問非常踴躍，且充份地能和世界各地的學者共
同討論、切磋。 
當天晚上，大會還安排了晚宴，晚宴上有最佳論文(Best Paper)
的頒獎與豐盛的美食，並邀請泰國當地的傳統舞蹈表演。 
 
2007.1.19 
此天，除了有參與此次會議的壁報論文發表(Poster)外；下午，
本實驗室仍有二位學生的論文發表(Oral)，分別是： 
1. A Novel Fabrication Method of Microlens Array by Surface 
Tension and Injection Process (Yu Hsin Lin, 林郁欣) 
2. Micro Assembly by Micro Resistance Welding with Electro-
Thermal Actuators (Chun-Wei Chang, 張駿偉) 
其發表完後，台下與會者的發問，仍然是非常踴躍。 
當天晚上，大會則是安排了再見晚會，為今年IEEE-NEMS研討
會劃下完美的句點。 
 
三、與會心得 
藉由參與此次會議，了解目前世界各國發展微機電、奈米科技及
分子生物領域的主流。因應了會議名稱，研究的尺度，由早期的微米
朝向奈米推進，改為微米和奈米共進；在應用領域上，則由傳統工程
    
   
 
Figure 2. The fabrication process of the proposed polymer VCD in A-A 
cross-section 
multi-partial exposure process, which is carried out by the half-
tone design of the backside mask to modulate the desired 
dosage for different exposing areas.  Therefore, the backside 
multi-partial exposure is completed in once exposure, as shown 
in step one of Fig. 1(d). 
B. Polymer Vertical Comb Drive 
The fabrication method of 3D photoresist microstructures 
illustrated above provides the micro-system applications not 
only in the passive components, but also in the active devices.  
This convenient process supplies another new approach to 
fabricate the vertical comb drive (VCD), which is an 
electrostatic actuator providing the efficient out-of-plane 
motion.  Fig. 2 shows the fabrication procedure of the proposed 
polymer VCD.  The soda-lime glass is used as the substrate, 
and the commercial thick photoresist, AZ9260® (Clariant), is 
utilized to demonstrate this process.  The Cr layer of 7500Å is 
deposited on the glass substrate first, and the Ti layer of 2500Å 
is patterned by the lift-off process for the mask of the backside 
partial exposure, as shown in Fig. 2(a).  Subsequently, the Cr is 
etched away to create the undercut structure for the electrical 
isolation in the final metallization (Fig. 2(b)).  Then, the 
photoresist AZ9260® with thickness about 60μm is coated and 
soft-baked for 90 minutes.  After a suitable re-hydration, the 
photoresist is defined by the front-side partial exposure 
(Fig. 2(c)) and the backside partial exposure (Fig. 2(d)) for the 
desired development depths.  Then, the full exposure is carried 
out to define the overall structure (Fig. 2(e)), and the final 
development is taken with developer of AZ400k (20% diluted 
by water).  After development, as shown in Fig. 2(f), the 
polymer VCD is fabricated with the final metallization by Cu 
sputtering. 
Figure 3. The development depth in different development time with partial 
exposure dosage of 63, 126, 251 and 368 mJ/cm2.  The soft bake time is 
(a) 15 minutes and (b) 60 minutes at 90    . 
III. RESULTS
A. 3D Photoresist Microstructures 
  In order to determine the final shape of the designed 
microstructure, the development depth of the photoresist under 
different partial exposure dosage needs to be characterized.  
Fig. 3 shows the development depths of the photoresist 
AZ9260® with different soft bake time under different 
development time and partial exposure dosage, where Fig. 3(a) 
shows the results with soft bake time of 15 minutes at 90   and 
Fig. 3(b) shows the results with 60 minutes at 90  .  By the 
results, the larger exposure dosage creates the larger 
development depth, which is enlarged by the longer 
development time.  It is also found that the longer soft bake 
time can provide more stable development depth under 
different development time, especially for the higher partial 
exposure dosage.  Furthermore, the full soft bake time is 
helpful for the reliable fabrication of 3D photoresist 
microstructures.  Fig. 4 shows the fabrication results of 
photoresist bridges with the soft bake time of 40 minutes and 
90 minutes, where the bridge with insufficient soft bake 
collapses after release due to the broken structure. 
The Ti film is sputtered on the glass substrate for the 
backside mask in this work, and the half-tone design is realized 
by the control of Ti thickness.  The UV-light transparency of Ti 
film in different thickness is measured by the radiometer with 
˃
˄˃
˅˃
ˆ˃
ˇ˃
ˈ˃
ˉ˃
˃ ˈ ˄˃ ˄ˈ ˅˃ ˅ˈ ˆ˃ ˆˈ
˗˸̉ ˿˸̂ ̃̀˸ ̇́ʳ ˼˧̀ ʳ˸ʻ ̀˼́̈̇˸ ʼ
˗
˸̉
˸˿̂
̃̀
˸́
̇ʳ˗
˸̃
̇˻
ʳʻ̈
̀
ʼ
˃
˄˃
˅˃
ˆ˃
ˇ˃
ˈ˃
ˉ˃
˃ ˈ ˄˃ ˄ˈ ˅˃ ˅ˈ ˆ˃ ˆˈ
˗˸̉˸˿̂ ̃̀˸́̇ʳ ˼˧̀˸ʳ ʻ̀˼́ ̈̇˸ ʼ
˗
˸̉
˸˿̂
̃̀
˸́
̇ʳ˗
˸̃
̇˻
ʳʻ̈
̀
ʼ
(a) 
(b) 
63 mJ/cm2
126 mJ/cm2
251 mJ/cm2
368 mJ/cm2
63 mJ/cm2
126 mJ/cm2
251 mJ/cm2
368 mJ/cm2
A
A
(a) (b)
(c) (d)
(e) (f)
635
℃  
℃ 
℃ 
Figure 8. The undercut structure created by Ti/Cr by etching for (a) 5 
minutes, (b) 10 mininutes, and (c)(d) 15 minutes. 
B. Polymer Vertical Comb Drive 
The experimental characterization of the 3D photoresist 
microstructures provides the demanded knowledge to fabricate 
the polymer VCDs.  Being the active devices actuated by 
electrostatic force, the conductivity and specific isolation of 
VCDs are needed.  The electrical isolation is realized by the 
undercut design as shown in Fig. 2(b).  The SEM pictures of 
undercut structure created by Ti/Cr layer with CR7T 
(Chromium Photomask Etchant) etching for 5, 10 and 15 
minutes are shown in Fig. 8.  The undercut space is narrow for 
5 minutes etching, as shown in Fig. 8(a), and the Ti layer 
collapses for 15 minutes etching due to the too wide 
suspending distance, as shown in Fig. 8(c)(d).  The 
conductivity is tested between the Ti layer and the surface of 
substrate after Cu deposition about 1000Å.  With the testing of 
14 samples, the 14.3%, 0% and 100% undercut structures are 
electrically short for 5, 10 and 15 minutes etching, respectively.  
Etching time about 7~10 minutes provides the successful 
electrical isolation. 
The expected electrical conduction of VCD is achieved by 
the Cu sputtering on the structure surface.  Through the 
conductivity measurement between the top plane of the pad 
and the substrate surface without the undercut design, the 
deposition thickness of Cu about 1000Å provides the 
successful metallization, including the sidewall of structure.  
Fig. 9 shows the SEM pictures of the fabricated polymer VCDs 
after the final metallization.  The torsion plate with dimension 
of 300μm×360μm is suspended successfully without any 
stiction phenomenon.  The suspending space, S, is about 24 μm 
with the exposure dosage of 432 mJ/cm2 and development time 
of 40 minutes.  In the actuation testing, the voltage is applied 
between the upper set and the lower set of fingers, and the 
polymer VCDs are broken down without any deflection 
observed when the driving voltage is increased to the range of 
40~80V.  The isolation design of Ti/Cr undercut structure 
provides the limited driving voltage and cannot drive the VCDs 
successfully.  Fig. 10 shows another isolation approach via the  
Figure 9. Polymer VCDs made of AZ9260® with suspending plate of 
300μm×360μm and finger width of 5μm. 
Figure 10. Electrical isolation between the upper and lower set of comb 
fingers via the undercut at the anchors of torsion plate. 
(a) (b) 
(c) (d) 
(a)
(b)
(c) 
+ V - 
anchor
undercut
637
A Novel Fabrication Method of Microlens Array by Surface 
Tension and Injection Process
Yu-Hsin Lin1,2,*, Student Member, IEEE, and Wensyang Hsu1
1 Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan, R.O.C 
2Instrument Technology Research Center, National Applied Research Laboratories, Taiwan, ROC
Abstract—A novel and simple method on fabricating Ultra-Violet 
curable polymer microlens array on silicon membrane and 
cantilever by injection process is presented.  The radius of 
curvature of microlens can be tuned by liquid polymer surface 
tension and applied pressure.  The polymer microlens array, with 
a diameter of 17 μ m, a pitch of 30 μ m on silicon membrane and 
cantilever are successfully fabricated to demonstrate the 
feasibility of the proposed method.  Also, it is shown that 
different curvature radius of microlens can be fabricated, and 
the proposed method has potential to integrate with other optical 
device. 
Keywords-Polymer microlens;Surface tension; Injection; 
Optical device  
I. INTRODUCTION
The microlens plays a very important role in many 
applications, such as optical communication, optical storage 
system, and display system.  The polymer is very common 
material to choose to make microlens, because it’s easy to 
fabricate, to integrate and low cost. There are many different 
fabrication technologies by manifold processes such as 
photoresist thermal reflow method [1], Laser micromachining 
[2], micro molding [3-5], microjet process [6,7], lithographie 
galvanoformung abformetechnik(LIGA) [8], and 
electroweting [9].   
In this paper, we present a novel and simple manufacturing 
method of Ultra-Violet curable polymer microlens array by 
liquid polymer surface tension and injection process.   
II. CONCEPT DESIGN
The concept of the proposed injection method is shown in 
Figure. 1.  The membrane structure with circular hole was 
fabricated by Microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) 
technology.  The liquid UV curable polymer will flow inside 
the tube automatically by capillary force.  And the opening of 
tube will stop the flow of liquid polymer that develops when 
the tube cross section changes abruptly.  This is called the 
capillary barrier.  The meniscus of microlens would be formed 
by applied pressure at the liquid polymer as shown in Figure. 
1b.  When the polymer liquid pressure at the mensiscus of 
microlens overcomes the maximum capillary barrier, the 
polymer liquid will burst through the tube. 
The operation principle is based on the capillary pressure 
barrier of the liquid polymer at pivoting area [10, 11].  The 
channel is designed as a circular tube and the effect of gravity 
is neglected.  The total interfacial energy at the liquid polymer 
may be expressed as 
lalasasaslslT AAAU γγγ ++=                                           (1) 
The surface energies are related to the contact angle cθ  by 
Young’s equation 
claslsa θγγγ cos+=                                                         (2) 
The total energy is a function of the injected volume.  The 
pressure in the liquid polymer is hence 
DdV
dU
P la
l
T θγ sin4
−=−=                                                 (3) 
Where lV  is the liquid polymer volume, D is diameter of 
circular tube opening, and P is the applied pressure.  When 
cθθ = , the capillary barrier reaches maximum and the 
microlens curvature radius has minimum. 
Figure 1.  The concept of the injection method for liquid Ultra-Violet curable 
polymer microlens. 
III. FABRICATION PROCESS DESIGN
The fabrication process is shown in Figure. 2.  The 
positive photoresist AZ4620 is spinned on silicon substrate 
and lithography with circle pattern, as shown in Figure. 2a., 
then the silicon is etched about 10 μ m deep by Inductively 
Coupled Plasma Reactive Ion Etching (ICP-RIE), as shown in 
Figure. 2b.  The Si3N4 film of 200nm thickness is deposited by 
LPCVD after removing photoresist, as shown in Figure. 2c.  
In Figure. 2d and 2e, the backside wet etching window of 
Si3N4 film is formed by lithography and RIE process.  The 
membrane structure of silicon is fabricated by KOH wet 
etching in Figure. 2f.  After removing the Si3N4 film by 
*Yu-Hsin Lin: Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Chiao 
Tung University, 1001 Ta Hsueh Road, Hsinchu, Taiwan, 30010, R.O.C 
yhlin@itrc.org.tw.
P
θ
P=0 
(a)
(b) 
1-4244-0610-2/07/$20.00 ©2007 IEEE 443
Proceedings of the 2nd IEEE International
Conference on Nano/Micro Engineered and Molecular Systems
January 16 - 19, 2007, Bangkok, Thailand
˃
˃ˁ˃˄
˃ˁ˃˅
˃ˁ˃ˆ
˃ˁ˃ˇ
˃ˁ˃ˈ
˃ˁ˃ˉ
˃ˁ˃ˊ
˃ˁ˃ˋ
˄ ˅ ˆ
˦̈
̅˹˴
˶˸ʳ
˧˸
́
˼̆̂
ʳ́ʻ
˂ˡ̀
ʼ
˪˴̇˸̅ ˨˩ˀˉ˃
Figure 5.  The surface tension measurement results of water and Ultra-Violet 
curable liquid polymer.   
Figure 6.  The relation between appiled pressure and static contact angle and 
liquid Ultra-Violet curable polymer microlens curvature radius. 
The membrane of silicon mechanism with microhole is 
shown process design in Figure. 2g. and result in Figure. 7.  
Because the polymer microlens array is fabricated on silicon, 
it is easy to integrate with other optical device.   
The 81 polymer microlens array with diameter of 17 μ m
on a silicon membrane is shown in Figure. 8a.  Figure. 8b 
shows the fabricated of 6 polymer microlens on silicon 
cantilevers of 50 μ m in length, 24 μ m wide and 9.5 μ m
thick.  The polymer microlens with cantilever can be used for 
scanning optical microscopy.  The polymer microlens after 
curing by UV exposed process with different curvature radius 
had been fabricated as shown in Figure. 9.   
Figure 7.  The membrane of silicon mechanism with 81 microhole array. 
                                                          (a)                            
                                                           (b) 
Figure 8.  (a) SEM of 81 Ultra-Violet curable polymer microlens array on  
silicon  membrane. (b) SEN of 6 microlens integrate with cantilever 
mechanism.  Cantilever dimensions: L=50 μ m, W=24 μ m, T=9.5 μ m. 
Figure 9.  SEM of 17 μ m diameter Ultra-Violet curable polymer microlens 
with different radius: (a)10.22 μ m and (b) 9.43 μ m . 
B. Optical measurement results of Ultra-Violet curable 
polymer microlens array 
The schematic diagram of measurement conditions is 
shown in Figure. 10. and the actual setup is shown in Figure. 
11.  The optical measurement equipments include a 632.8nm 
HeNe laser light source, Neutral Density Filter (NDF), 
Objective lens with 50 X magnification (NA=0.55) for 
collimating output beam from microlens, Charge Coupled 
Device (CCD) for detect the collimated output beam. The 
spot intensity distribution of 81 polymer microlens array with 
silicon membrane is measured by a Spiricon Beam Profiler 
(LBA series).  The intensity profile of 81 microlens is 
measured as shown in Figure.12.  The spot diameter with 1/e2
intensity of the peak is 3.4 μ m.   
(b)(a)
445
