前言 
 
Push to Talk (PTT) is a walkie-talkie like 
service defined by the Open Mobile Alliance 
(OMA) [1], [2], [3]. In this service, several 
predefined group members participate in one 
PTT session. Since PTT is half-duplex, only 
one group member is allowed to speak at a 
time, and the other members listen. In this 
mechanism, one must ask for the permission 
to speak by pressing the PTT button of one’s 
mobile device called the PTT client. In the 
OMA approach, a central arbitrator called the 
PTT over Cellular (PoC) server is used to 
coordinate the permission to speak among the 
group members, and determine the member 
that is permitted to speak. In the cellular 
network, a group member is a mobile user, 
and the PoC server is a host in the mobile core 
network. The PoC server is considered 
“always alive” during a PoC session. 
This project studies PTT service for 
Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) [4], 
[5]. As illustrated in Figure 1, we consider an 
ITS-based PTT environment that consists of a 
set of PTT clients (vehicles) labeled by A, 
B, ..., I. A PTT client is equipped with 
wireless transmitter and receiver using 
omnidirectional antenna. The circular area in 
Figure 1 (1) represents the transmission scope 
of client A. The radio link (e.g., dashed line in 
Figure 1 (2)) exists between a pair of the PTT 
clients (e.g., clients A and B) if the 
transmission scopes of these two clients cover 
each other. If so, A is called a neighbor of B 
and vice versa. The voice packets are 
forwarded to/form PTT clients in multi-hop 
fashion, where a radio link routing the packets 
is counted as one hop. Since a client may 
arbitrarily move, the network is dynamically 
self-organizing and self-configuring with the 
PTT clients, and a client (e.g., client I in 
Figure 1) may be temporarily unreachable 
from other clients [4]. 
Figure 1: The ITS environment 
研究目的 
 
In the ITS environment, it may not be 
appropriate to utilize the central arbitrator 
approach defined in OMA. Because of the 
non-infrastructure nature of ITS, a vehicle 
(e.g., client I) must be selected to serve as the 
PTT arbitrator in the OMA approach. Due to 
mobility of the PTT clients, the arbitrator (i.e., 
client I) may temporarily disconnect from the 
ITS environment, and the PTT service cannot 
be stably supported. In this case, the PTT 
clients must elect another arbitrator, which 
may incur significant overheads. In addition, 
when client I joins the ITS environment again, 
there may simultaneously exist two arbitrators, 
which results in incorrect PTT execution. 
 
研究方法 
 
To resolve the above issues, we propose a 
distributed PTT mechanism for ITS. This 
approach does not require any central 
arbitrator. When a group member wishes to 
speak, he/she simply presses the PTT button 
and starts to speak without coordination, and 
the group member that is permitted to speak is 
automatically determined through distributed 
“learning” interaction among the PTT clients. 
tp(j): the delay between when the PTT button 
of the permitted client i is pressed and when 
the PTT button of client j is pressed (if 
member j presses the button). If client j 
receives a RTP packet within tp(j), its PTT 
button will not be pressed. Variable tp(j) has 
the Gamma distribution with mean 
pμ
1  
and variance pν . 
tr(j): the delay between when member j 
presses the PTT button and when client j 
issues the Release message (if it does). If tr(j) 
< tp(j) + T, tr(j) is set to tp(j) + T. Note that if 
client j receives a RTP packet with smaller 
time-stamp within tr(j), the Release message 
will not be issued. Variable tr(j) has the 
Gamma distribution with mean 
rμ
1  and 
variance rν . 
T: the buffer timeout period. This period is 
assumed to be fixed.  
For dlj , tp(j), and tr(j) with arbitrary 
distributions, the following facts are observed 
[10]. 
Fact 3: When the variance of a 
distribution is very small, the values are 
clustered to the mean of the distribution. 
Fact 4: When the variance of a 
distribution is small, if the variance is 
increased, more large and small values are 
observed. 
Fact 5: When the variance of a 
distribution is large, if the variance is 
increased, more small values are observed 
than large values are. 
For the illustration purpose, we assume 
that dlj , tp(j), and tr(j) have Gamma 
distributions. It is proved that any 
experimental data can be fit by a mixture of 
Gamma distributions [8],[11]. Therefore, one 
may measure the ITS field data, fit them into a 
mixture of Gamma distributions, and then use 
our performance model for analysis. The 
following output measures are investigated in 
our study.  
Pwp: the probability that “wrong play” occurs. 
Pwr: the probability that “wrong release” 
occurs.  
 
We propose an analytic model to validate 
the simulation model for specific scenarios. 
Suppose that only two clients (i.e., clients i 
and j) are involved in the PTT execution, 
where client i is the permitted client. Let 
ijd d=τ  and )( jt pp =τ . In our analytic 
model, dτ  and pτ  are assumed to be 
exponentially distributed with means dμ/1  
and pμ/1 , respectively.  
We have that “wrong play” does not occur 
if and only if (1) is satisfied. Under the 
condition that j is the non-permitted client, the 
probability that “wrong play” does not occur 
can be expressed as follows. 
 
Since client j attempts to press the PTT 
button with probability Pp, from (2), the 
probability Pwp that “wrong play” occurs can 
be expressed as follows. 
 
We also derive the probability of “wrong 
play” for the case where three clients are 
involved in the PTT execution. Suppose that 
Distribution: Figure 4 shows the effects of the 
variance dν of the dlj distribution. The tp(j) 
and tr(j) values have the same distributions as 
those in Figure 3. When dν  is very small, 
from Fact 3, most dlj values are clustered to 
dμ
1 . Since T = dμ/10 , it is likely that 
constraint (1) is satisfied. Therefore, we 
observe that both Pwp and Pwr are very small. 
When dν increases, from Fact 4, more large 
dlj values are observed, and it is likely that  
ijij TTd −+> θ . Thus, it is less likely that 
constraint (1) is satisfied for all clients.In this 
case, both Pwp and Pwr increase in Figure 3. 
When dν  is larger, from Fact 5, more small 
dlj values are observed than large dlj values. In 
this case, when dν  increases, it is more 
likely that constraint (1) is satisfied, and 
Figure 4 shows that both Pwp and Pwr decrease 
again. 
 
Figure 4: Effect of the variance of the dlj 
distribution. 
In summary, Pwp and Pwr are significantly 
affected by the buffer time. Note that the 
buffer time may cause undesirable delay in the 
real-time voice traffic. On the other hand, the 
PTT service is not seriously affected by the 
buffer time for the following reasons. First, in 
the walkie-talkie application, the permitted 
client election/arbitration always delays the 
first voice packet. Therefore, the buffer time 
delay can be considered as the permitted client 
election time experienced in all PTT 
implementations. Second, in the PTT service, 
there is only one speaker at a time (the 
speakers of the listeners are turned off). 
Therefore, first packet delay will not cause 
echo as observed in the traditional voice 
conversation. 
The research result has been recognized 
and was published in the SCI journal, IEEE 
Transactions on Intelligent Transportation 
Systems, 2007. 
 
Reference 
 
[1] Open Mobile Alliance. Push to Talk over 
Cellular Architecture, OMAAD-PoC V1 
0-20050428-C Candidate. Technical Report 
Version 1.0,Open Mobile Alliance, April 
2005. 
[2] Parthasarathy, A. Push to talk over cellular 
(PoC) server. IEEE Proceedings, Networking, 
Sensing and Control 2005, pages 772–776, 
March 2005. 
[3] Raktale, S.K. 3PoC: an architecture for 
enabling push to talk services in 3GPP 
networks. IEEE International Conference on 
Personal Wireless Communications, 2005, 
pages 202–206, Jan 2005. 
[4] Blum, J.-J., Eskandarian, A., and Hoffman, 
L.-J. Challenges of intervehiclead hoc 
networks. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent 
Transportation Systems, 5(4):347–351, 
December 2004. 
[5] Chen, W. and Cai, S. Ad hoc peer-to-peer 
network architecture for vehicle safety 
communications. IEEE Communications 
Magazine, 43(4):100–107, April 2005. 
[6] Schulzrinne, H., Casner, S., Frederick, R., 
and Jaconson, V. RTP: A Transport Protocol 
for Real-Time Applications. Technical Report 
IETF RFC 3550, July 2003. 
[7] Lin, P., Lai, W.-R., and Gan, C.-H. 
Modeling opportunity driven multiple access 
in UMTS. IEEE Transactions on Wireless 
Communications, 3(5):1699–1677, September 
