become a popular research field nowadays. Oxides have 
versatile physical properties. Integration of zinc 
oxide and perovskite oxide materials to form 
heterostructures provides a new approach to develop 
new materials. Study on related structures and basic 
physical properties of the heterostructures 
consisting of zinc oxide single-crystal nanowire and 
perovskite epitaxial thin films is beneficial for 
preparing nanodevices with high function. In the 
first year study, the ZnO nanostructurs were grown on 
the ZnO, Au, and Ag ultra-thin layers coated SrTiO3 
(STO) substrates by thermal evaporation of metallic 
zinc. Various morphologies of the ZnO nanostructures 
were synthesized in this work. Pure wire-like ZnO 
nanostructures were grown in preferential c-axis 
direction on the ZnO, Au, and Ag coated STO 
substrates. The use of Au and Ag catalysts is an 
important factor to produce the ZnO nanostructures 
with a preferential c-axis direction. Among various 
STO substrates (Au/STO, Ag/STO, ZnO/STO, Au/ZnO/STO, 
and Ag/ZnO/STO), The ZnO nanostructures grown on the 
Au/STO substrate has a higher degree of vertical 
alignment. The value of UV to visible ratio reaches 
55. The fabrication of the vertical aligned ZnO 
nanostructures with high crystalline quality is 
promising for the integration of novel wurtzite-
perovskite functional devices.  
The second year study presents the synthesis of high-
density aligned wurtzite ZnO nanostructures using 
thermal evaporation on perovskite (La,Sr)MnO3 (LSMO) 
epitaxy to form a heterostructure. LSMO epitaxial 
films are RF-sputtered with various crystal qualities 
to examine the correlation between the interface and 
electrical characteristics of the heterostructures. 
The ZnO nanostructures-LSMO epitaxial 
heterostructures show electrical rectifying behavior 
without inserting an ultrathin insulating layer at 
the hetero-interface. Misfit strain, intrinsic 
strain, and crystal defects are major factors in 
causing a phase separation in the as-prepared 
manganite LSMO epitaxial films. The coexistence of a 
charge-ordered insulating domain and ferromagnetic 
 
□期中進度報告 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■期末報告 
 
低維氧化物奈米複合材料之合成與基礎物性研究 
 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC100－2628－E－019－003－MY2 
執行期間：2011 年 08 月 01 日至 2013 年 07 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立臺灣海洋大學 材料工程研究所 
 
計畫主持人：梁元彰 博士 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：胡嘉晏、黃建倫、鄧顯仕、鍾華、夏浩元、廖文楷、蕭鼎學 
 
 
 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另含下列出國報告，共 _1__ 份： 
□移地研究心得報告 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國  102 年 08 月 08 日
Abstract 
Synthesis of new materials with multi-functions has become a popular research field 
nowadays. Oxides have versatile physical properties. Integration of zinc oxide and perovskite 
oxide materials to form heterostructures provides a new approach to develop new materials. 
Study on related structures and basic physical properties of the heterostructures consisting of zinc 
oxide single-crystal nanowire and perovskite epitaxial thin films is beneficial for preparing 
nanodevices with high function. In the first year study, the ZnO nanostructurs were grown on the 
ZnO, Au, and Ag ultra-thin layers coated SrTiO3 (STO) substrates by thermal evaporation of 
metallic zinc. Various morphologies of the ZnO nanostructures were synthesized in this work. 
Pure wire-like ZnO nanostructures were grown in preferential c-axis direction on the ZnO, Au, 
and Ag coated STO substrates. The use of Au and Ag catalysts is an important factor to produce 
the ZnO nanostructures with a preferential c-axis direction. Among various STO substrates 
(Au/STO, Ag/STO, ZnO/STO, Au/ZnO/STO, and Ag/ZnO/STO), The ZnO nanostructures 
grown on the Au/STO substrate has a higher degree of vertical alignment. The value of UV to 
visible ratio reaches 55. The fabrication of the vertical aligned ZnO nanostructures with high 
crystalline quality is promising for the integration of novel wurtzite-perovskite functional 
devices.  
The second year study presents the synthesis of high-density aligned wurtzite ZnO 
nanostructures using thermal evaporation on perovskite (La,Sr)MnO3 (LSMO) epitaxy to form a 
heterostructure. LSMO epitaxial films are RF-sputtered with various crystal qualities to examine 
the correlation between the interface and electrical characteristics of the heterostructures. The 
ZnO nanostructures-LSMO epitaxial heterostructures show electrical rectifying behavior without 
inserting an ultrathin insulating layer at the hetero-interface. Misfit strain, intrinsic strain, and 
crystal defects are major factors in causing a phase separation in the as-prepared manganite 
LSMO epitaxial films. The coexistence of a charge-ordered insulating domain and ferromagnetic 
metallic domain causes inhomogeneous electrical contact at the ZnO-LSMO heterointerfaces, 
further deteriorating the junction characteristics. A high-temperature annealing procedure and 
moderate LSMO epitaxy film thickness are required for the construction of an efficient ZnO 
nanostructures-LSMO epitaxy junction.      
Keywords: ZnO; Nanostructures; Oxide; Perovskite; Functional devices; Manganite; Epitaxy 
junction 
typically exhibits various electronic and magnetic properties caused by strong coupling among 
spin, charge, and orbital degrees of freedom. High-quality epitaxial LSMO films are highly 
demanded and have potential for technological application in spin-sensitive and magnetic 
devices [14,20].  The development of LSMO-ZnO heterostructures forms a p-n junction 
between the LSMO-ZnO interface. Recent studies on ZnO-LSMO heterostructures have shown 
rectifying electrical behavior and photocarrier injection effects [21-23]. The majority of previous 
studies have focused on the ZnO-LSMO thin-film heterostructures. Although ZnO 
nanostructure-based heterostructures have been realized by aqueous chemical growth on LSMO 
bulk material, the use of ultrathin ZnO seed-layer film might affect the electric contact between 
the ZnO nanostructures and LSMO; moreover, LSMO bulk material is unpractical for miniature 
electronic devices.     
For nanodevice applications, oxides in thin-film or low-dimensional architecture are of 
special interest. Several methodologies have been proposed to prepare LSMO thin films 
[14,20,24]. However, the synthesis of LSMO in 1D morphology through a single route remains 
immature because of the complex LSMO composition. Among various thin-film processes, the 
sputtering process is especially suitable for industrial application because it allows the 
preparation of LSMO thin-films with easy process control and to realize high-quality epitaxial 
films [14]. Conversely, the superior structural characteristics of 1D ZnO nanostructures make 
them suitable for fabricating various highly efficient nanoscale devices. Previous research has 
reported a strong dependence of ZnO nanomaterial properties on their dimensions and 
morphologies. Well-aligned ZnO nanostructures have been shown to exhibit superior device 
properties, compared with randomly oriented ZnO nanostructures [25]. Several studies have 
successfully applied thermal evaporation to synthesize high-density aligned ZnO nanostructures 
using Zn metallic powders or ZnO ceramic powders and graphite as source materials, in which 
single-crystal semiconductor and sapphire substrates are adopted for growth of high-density 
aligned ZnO nanostructures [26.27]. Oxide heterostructures might present their complimentary 
functionalities if the ZnO nanostructures, and LSMO thin films are integrated as a composite 
system. Based on this discussion, construction of a heterostructure with ZnO nanostructures and 
LSMO thin films is worthy of close examination. However, work on such nanostructured 
oxide-based junctions remains limited. Studies on the application for thermal evaporation to 
grow high-density aligned ZnO nanostructures on perovskite oxides remains limited because of 
the significant difference in crystal structure and chemistry between constituent compounds [28]. 
The characteristics of oxide junctions are potentially affected by the crystal quality of both 
constituent compounds. Modification of the interface between constituent compounds has an 
important function in affecting the physical properties of the heterostructure. Based on the 
nanostructured ZnO-LSMO hetero-oxide, it is necessary to understand the origin of the 
ZnO-LSMO hetero-interface characteristics to develop functional and practical devices that 
operate at room temperature. In the second year study, high-density aligned ZnO nanostructures 
has been shown little changed while the growth of six equivalent facets of the type {110} might 
increase with the subtle change of growth environment [29]. Therefore, sheet structures were 
formed adjacent to the wire structure in this work. A similar result has been reported in ZnMgO 
nanostructures [30].  Fig. 1(b) shows the morphology of the ZnO nanostructures formed on the 
ZnO-coated STO substrate is quite different from that on the bare STO substrate. The SEM 
image in this work indicates that the ZnO nanostructures have a hexagonal facet in {100} faces. 
The wires have an average diameter of approximately 100~160 nm. The wires were randomly 
aligned over the area of interest. Fig. 1 (c) and (d) demonstrates that the ZnO nanostructures 
were oriented more perpendicularly than those grown on the ZnO-coated and bare STO 
substrates. According to the SEM analysis, the different morphologies of the ZnO nanostructures 
between the bare STO and other STO substrates coated with ZnO, Au, and Ag ultra-thin layers is 
not originated from the STO effect. The possible reason for the above observation is tentatively 
attributed to the subtle change in the process environment. For the catalyst-free growth, the ZnO 
seed layer provides the more suitable nucleation sites than the surface of the STO due to the 
same chemical and crystallographic characteristics. This promotes the reaction between the Zn-O 
precursor molecular and the ZnO-coated STO substrate in the furnace to form ZnO 
nanostructures in wire morphology feature. Several growth mechanisms have been proposed to 
explain the growth of the ZnO nanostructures. The vapor-liquid-solid and vapor-solid 
mechanisms have been proposed to explain the growth process of 1D nanowires [31]. In general, 
a metal particle usually presents on the tip of the nanowires if the vapor-liquid-solid growth 
mechanism dominates the growth process of the 1D nanowires. Conversely, no metal particle at 
the tip of the nanowire is observed for the vapor-solid mechanism. Moreover, a self-catalyzed 
growth has been reported to resemble the vapor-solid process and such growth results in the 
formation of a non-flat ends of nanowires [32]. In this work, no metal particles were observed at 
the tips of the ZnO nanostructures and the ends of the nanostructures are flat (Fig. 1 (c) and (d)). 
Zhang et al., indicates both the substrate temperature and source materials might be an important 
factor to influence the growth mechanism of the metal catalyst-assisted growth of ZnO 
nanostructures from Zn powder source [33]. The vapor-solid mechanism has been identified to 
dominate the Au and Ag catalyst-assisted growth of ZnO nanowires at a substrate temperature of 
500oC. The growth of the ZnO nanostructures on the Au- and Ag-coated STO substrates might 
follows the vapor-solid mechanism in this work. Comparatively, the vertical alignment 
characteristic of the ZnO nanostructures was enhanced by using Au and Ag-coated ZnO-STO 
substrates with respect to those on the ZnO-coated and bare STO substrates. However, in Fig. 1 
(e) and (f), the combinational use of the metal catalyst and ZnO seed layer seems not to 
dramatically improve the degree of alignment for the ZnO nanostructures in comparison to those 
on the metal catalyst-coated STO substrates. The ZnO nanostructures were grown randomly 
oriented on several local regions over the entire area. 
Figure 2 shows the XRD patterns for the as-synthesized ZnO nanostructures on the various 
[34]. The formation of oxygen vacancies in the ZnO lattice is often observed in the oxide 
materials during crystal growth [35]. Moreover, several works demonstrated that a dissociated 
H2O molecule can be absorbed onto an oxygen bridging vacancy to form two hydroxyl groups 
[36]. The H2O remain in the alumina boat or quartz reactor during the synthesis process may 
cause the existence of hydrated oxide species in the ZnO nanostructures.  
The CL spectra of ZnO nanostructures reveal a narrow UV band (around 383 nm, 3.24 eV) 
caused by radiative annihilation of excitons and a broad vissible band (the maximum peak 
between 500–515 nm, 2.41–2.48 eV), which is attributed to deep-level emission caused by 
structural defects (Fig. 6)[17,36]. Comparatively, an intensive visible band emission was detected 
from the ZnO nanostructures grown on the bare STO substrate (Fig. 6(a)). A common method to 
evaluate the defect level in ZnO is to compare the intensity ratio of the UV peak to the visible 
peak. The value of UV to visible ratio is only 2.1 for the ZnO nanostructures on the STO (Table 
I). From XRD results, the Bragg reflections of {101} dominate the crystal structure of the ZnO 
nanostructures grown on the bare STO substrate and the relative peak intensity ratio of (002) is 
lowest among the samples. It is reported that native defects are energetically favorable and easier 
to form during the growth of ZnO (110) in comparison with that of ZnO (002). This is attributed 
to the difference in atomic arrangements of the c-plane and a-plane ZnO crystal [37]. This 
accounts for the observed CL spectra of the ZnO nanostructures on the bare STO substrate. A 
well-suppressed visible band emission was detected from the ZnO nanostructures which are 
grown with an assistance of metal catalyst and/or ZnO seed layer (Fig. 6 (b)-(f)). The value of 
UV to visible ratio of ZnO nanostructures on the ZnO-coated STO substrate is significantly 
enhanced by the metal catalyst-assisted growth. The value is increased from 9.5 to 32 and 26 by 
using Au and Ag catalysts on the ZnO-coated STO substrates, respectively. A clear PL peak of 
UV emission was posited to the high quality of the c-axis oriented ZnO nanostructures. The 
metal/ZnO-coated STO substrate show the relative low value of UV to visible ratio comparing to 
the use of metal catalyst on the STO; this is attributed to the relative poor c-axis oriented ZnO 
nanostructures on the metal/ZnO-coated STO as revealed in the XRD results. The highest value 
of UV to visible ratio is observed for Au/STO substrate and is ~55 as listed in Table I, indicting 
the high crystalline quality of the ZnO nanostructures.  
The ZnO nanostructures were further grown on the LSMO thin films with various 
thicknesses according to the above experimental results. The SEM image shows that the ZnO 
nanostructures are densely covered over the LSMO film surface. The majority of the 
nanostructures are c-axis oriented on the LSMO thin film (Fig. 7 (a)). Fig. 7(b) shows the XRD 
patterns of the as-synthesized ZnO nanostructures on the 50-nm-thick LSMO underlayer. The 
LSMO thin film exhibited no obvious Bragg reflections over the measurement range. Because 
the lattice constants between the LSMO film (aLSMO = 0.387 nm) and STO substrate (aSTO = 
0.390 nm) are similar, it was anticipated that the LSMO (100) and (200) Bragg reflections would 
merge in those of the STO substrate; however, the XRD patterns clearly showed ZnO (002) and 
misfit lattice strain of the manganite epilayers has a strong dependence on the epilayer thickness; 
thinner films exhibit greater in-plane tensile strain because of a relatively large lattice constant of 
the STO substrate. The lowest Curie temperature of the heterostructure with a 50 nm-thick 
LSMO can be explained by the ultra-thin LSMO epilayer suffering a large misfit strain and some 
degree of intrinsic strain together with crystal defects, thereby substantially suppressing its 
ferromagnetic properties. However, the misfit strain for heterostructures with a thickness greater 
than 100 nm might not be a crucial factor affecting their ferromagnetic properties. LSMO 
epilayers grown on STO with thicknesses greater than 90 nm have been reported to have less 
in-plane strain in the film because the thickness significantly exceeds the critical value for 
generating high-density misfit dislocations to relieve the hetero-interface strain. The crystal 
defects and intrinsic strain in the film may explain why the Curie temperatures are less than room 
temperature for LSMO thin films with a thickness greater than 100 nm. The magnetization value 
and Curie temperature of the 150-nm-thick LSMO are less than those of the 100-nm-thick 
LSMO film. It is reasonable to infer that the 150-nm-thick LSMO might suffer from a prolonged 
sputtering process; thus, a higher degree of intrinsic stress and defects in the film further reduce 
its ferromagnetic properties. The M-T measurement results show that the heterostructure formed 
using an as-deposited 100-nm-thick LSMO epilayer has better ferromagnetic properties, thereby 
showing a better p-type LSMO underlayer in the heterostructure. To further confirm the strain 
and defect effect in the p-type LSMO manganite epilayers, we examined the M-T curves for the 
heterostructure formed using high-temperature-annealed 50- and 100-nm-thick LSMO epilayers 
(Fig. 9 (b)-(c)). The magnetization value and Curie temperature of the heterostructure with the 
annealed LSMO epilayers are comparatively more enhanced than those formed without thermal 
annealing. Specifically, a high magnetization value and Curie temperature greater than room 
temperature were obtained for the heterostructure with the annealed 100-nm-thick LSMO 
underlayer. Furthermore, the zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and field-cooled (FC) curves are similar 
and no marked summit peak was observed in the ZFC curve. This shows that the annihilation of 
the intrinsic stress and O vacancies during extremely high-temperature annealing under an O-rich 
atmosphere markedly enhances the crystalline quality of the LSMO epilayer. However, the Curie 
temperature of the annealed 50-nm-thick LSMO epilayer remains less than room temperature; 
moreover, a clear summit peak is observable in the ZFC curve. This is evidence that the 
50-nm-thick LSMO maintains its inhomogeneous magnetically ordered regions at the surface, 
even after high-temperature annealing in an oxygen-rich ambient. This shows that the 
ultrathin-film thickness dominates the quality of the 50-nm-thick LSMO underlayer.  
Fig. 10 shows the I-V characteristics of the ZnO nanostructures-LSMO epitaxy 
heterostructures with various LSMO underlayer conditions. The non-linear I-V characteristics of 
the heterostructures with 50- and 100-nm-thick LSMO underlayers formed without thermal 
annealing present an inner p-n (LSMO-ZnO) barrier is formed at the ZnO-LSMO heterointerface. 
The turn-on voltages for the 50- and 100- nm-thick LSMO underlayers are approximately 1.7 
degree of the vertical alignment of the ZnO nanostructures on the STO substrates. Comparatively, 
the ZnO nanostructures grown on the Au/STO substrate has a higher degree of vertical alignment. 
The ZnO seed layer improves the crystal quality of the ZnO nanostructures. This is attributed to 
the c-axis oriented growth of the ZnO nanostructures was significantly enhanced by using the 
ZnO seed layer. ZnO nanostructures grown on the Au/STO substrate exhibit well vertical 
alignment and a satisfactory optical property. In the second year study, wurtzite ZnO 
nanostructures were grown on a perovskite LSMO epitaxy by thermal evaporation. The 
as-synthesized ZnO nanostructures are of high density, and the majority of ZnO crystals are 
vertically aligned with a hexagonal facet. Film thickness and heat treatment affect the crystal 
quality of LSMO epitaxial thin films. The ultrathin 50-nm-thick LSMO epitaxy suffers 
significant misfit strain from the substrate and the degree of O vacancies during thin-film 
preparation; thus, serious phase separation is observed within the film. A high-temperature 
thermal annealing in an O-ambient environment is necessary to eliminate the majority of crystal 
defects and intrinsic strain within the 100-nm-thick LSMO epitaxy, thereby significantly 
enhancing the junction characteristics of the ZnO nanostructures-LSMO epitaxy.  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. SEM images of ZnO nanostructures growing on the various STO substrates: (a) STO, 
(b) ZnO-coated STO, (c) Ag-coated STO, (d) Au-coated STO, (e) Ag/ZnO-coated STO, 
and (f) Au/ZnO-coated STO. 
  
 
Figure 3. (a) Low magnification TEM image of ZnO sheet, (b) high resolution atomic images of 
ZnO sheet, and (c) the corresponding SAED pattern. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. (a) Low magnification TEM image of ZnO wire, (b) high resolution atomic images of 
ZnO wire, and (c) the corresponding SAED pattern. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5. Representative XPS spectra of the Zn 2p and O 1s for the ZnO nanowires. 
 
Figure 7. (a) SEM image of ZnO nanostructures grown on the 50 nm-thick LSMO underlayer. (b) 
XRD patterns of ZnO nanostructures-50 nm-thick LSMO epitaxy heterostructure. (c) 
HRTEM image of the LSMO epitaxially grown on the STO substrate taken from the 
interface of LSMO/STO. (d) The corresponding electron diffraction pattern taken from 
the interface of LSMO/STO. L and S denote LSMO and STO, respectively. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8. XPS survey scan of as-deposited LSMO thin film. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 10. I-V characteristics measured on various ZnO nanostructures-LSMO heterotsructures: 
(a) with 50 nm-thick LSMO underlayer, (b) with 100 nm-thick LSMO underlayer, (c) 
with 150 nm-thick LSMO underlayer, (d) with high-temperature annealed 100 nm-thick 
LSMO underlayer.  
30. R. Yousefi, B. Kamaluddin, Applied Surface Science 256 (2009) 329. 
31. S. Li, X. Zhang, B. Yan, T. Yu,Nanotechnology 20 (2009) 495604. 
32. C. Geng, Y. Jiang, Y.Yao, X. Meng, J. A. Zapien, C. S. Lee, Y. Lifshitz, S. T. Lee, Adv. 
Funct. Mater. 14(2004) 589. 
33. Z. Zhang, S.J.Wang, T.Yu, T.Wu, J. Phys. Chem. C111 (2007) 17500. 
34. Y.C.Liang, Ceramics International, 38 (2012) 1697. 
35. Y.C. Liang, H. Y. Lee, CrystEngComm. 12 (2010) 3172. 
36. R. Sanjinés, H. Tang, H. Berger, F. Gozzo, G. Margaritondo, F. Lévy, J. Appl. Phys. 75 
(1994) 2945. 
37. N. Pan, X. Wang, M. Li, F. Li, and J. G. Hou, J. Phys. Chem. C 111 (2007)17265. 
38. Y. C. Liang, Y.C. Liang, J. P. Chu, Electrochemical and Solid-State Letters. 11 (2008) G41. 
39. A. M. De Le´on-Guevara, P. Berthet, J. Berthon, F. Millot, A. Revcolevschi, A. Anane, C. 
Dupas, K. L. Dang, J. P. Renard, P. Veillet, Phys. Rev. B. 56 (1997) 6031. 
40. S.W. Jin, X. Y. Zhou, W. B. Wu, C. F. Zhu, H. M. Weng, H. Y. Wang, X. F. Zhang, B. J. Ye, 
R. D. Han, J. Phys. D: Appl. Phys. 37 (2004) 1841 
41. Y. C. Liang, Y. C. Liang, J. Crystal Growth. 303 (2007) 638. 
42. M. Ziese, H. C. Semmelhack, K.H. Han, Phys. Rev. B. 68 (2003) 134444. 
43. A. Biswas, M. Rajeswari, R. C. Srivastava, T. Venkatesan, R. L. Greece, Phys. Rev. B. 63 
(2001) 184424. 
44. A. Moreo, A. Yunoki, E. Dagotto Science. 282 (1999) 2034. 
45. I. M. Sugira, K. Uragou, M. Noda, M. Tachiki, and T. Kobayashi, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 38 
(1999) 2675. 
46. S. Y. Park, H.W. Lee, Y. S. Lee, D. F. Wang, Y. P. Lee, J. Y. Rhee, Phys. Stat. Sol. 4 (2007) 
4471. 
 
 2
- Bio applications 
- Medical applications 
- Life science 
Technical report session 
- Industrial innovation 
- Industrial report 
- Industrial technological management 
Basic plasma physics & generation 
- Atmospheric plasma, thermal plasma, low-temperature plasma 
- Plasma sources, simulation and modeling, plasma diagnostics 
- Plasma chemistry, plasma-surface interactions 
Material synthesis & plasma etching 
- Surface modification & plasma etching 
- Synthesis of thin films & nano-structured materials 
- Large-scale plasma processing 
Various applications of plasmas 
- Plasma process for semiconductor, display, and energy conversion devices 
- Plasma process for transparent, flexible, or stretchable electronic devices 
- Plasma for fusion & energy 
- Plasma for bio & medical application 
- Other applications 
參與會議行程主要為 10/2 星期二早上 8:30 搭乘長榮航空飛抵日本關西機場，隨後
搭乘 JR 直達電車前往京都。由關西機場至京都約需 75 分鐘車程。由於去年亦曾到過京
都開會因此在購票與尋找月台行程上並未有任何耽擱。抵達京都時已是中午，短暫於飯
店 chick-in 放置行李後即搭乘地鐵前往 Sajio 站再轉搭火車至桂站，再由桂站搭乘公車前
往京都大學桂校區。這些行程大約花費 50 分鐘左右。舉辦研討會地點在該校區的 ROHM 
plaza 離公車下車站只有 2 分路程相當方便。在會議現場完成註冊手續後前往 2 與 3 樓參
觀壁報報告。第一日的壁報主題安排主要以基本電漿物理與產生為主。現場觀看較有印
象的壁報內容主要有：微波誘導常壓電漿產生單一火焰、多相 AC 電弧均勻性現象探討、
雙頻誘導耦合電漿之控制、真空 DC 微電漿噴射特性、小的射出間隙之微電漿特性、不
同耦合誘導電漿源的蝕刻特性雷射誘導氬氣電漿電子動力學理論計算等等。由於海報報
告只到下午三點多因此所停留的時間並不長。隨後大會安排了幾場專題課程：分別是由
Kyoto University 的 Prof. Kouichi Onon 所講述的"Plasma Etching for Nanofabrication”，在
這課程中講者主要針對 ULSI 元件於電漿蝕刻技術發展需求作一介紹，並講述幾個電漿
蝕刻技術原理例如核心科技、電漿角色表面反應製程等等。最後在針對現今電漿蝕刻議
題做介紹例如 High-k 蝕刻、金屬蝕刻、表面粗化以及矽蝕刻縱深控制等。而 Osaka 
Electro-Communication University 的 Prof. Kunihide Tachibana 則講述"Fundamentals of 
Open-air and Underwater Discharges for their Applications”以及第三場由 National Institute 
for Materials Science, Dr. Han Liyuan 所講述的"Dye-sensitized Solar Cells"。此課程介紹了
如何提升染料敏化太陽能電池的 Jsc、Voc 與 FF 參數以及染料吸附控制，另外亦介紹了
 4
NAND、MRAM 以及相變化 RAM 等等，此外亦針對邏輯元件的部分報告說明。這天
的議程安排與昨天一致，課程結束後安排了科技壇議程，其中包括了  “high-voltage 
power source for pulsed discharge plasmas”、 “A high brightness negative ion source for 
SIMS” 、 “deposition of functional membranes by through substrate surface discharge” 、 
“A development of atmospheric pressure plasma equipment” 等等口頭報告。下午亦安排
了海報報告論文區，約有近 120 篇的與各種電漿應用相關的海報研究成果呈現。其中
例如： “以 HMDSO 利用常壓電漿噴射沈積緩衝層薄膜”、 “RF 電源驅動產生常壓電
漿噴射”、 “12 伏電池驅動產生空氣電漿閃光”、 “電漿產生快速原子與分子束”、 “在
不同壓力下以電漿產生中空粉末製程以及以磁控濺鍍奈米銀鍍膜”等等。海報報告時
間結束後大會又安排了約 6 場各式電漿應用主題的口頭報告，包括石墨稀與氫電漿之
作用、應用超臨界流合成尖端能源材料、電漿技術於 roll to roll 製程的應用、高頻誘
導耦合電漿於半導體膜的生長等等。 
第四天(10/5)早上大會安排了由京都大學 S.Noda 教授主講的 “於光子晶種中光
子操控”專題，報告中介紹了乾蝕刻製程技術相關的二維及三維圖形化的奈米結構來
操控光的週期反射指數，隨後大會並安排了 5 場會議論文口頭報告。其中包括有 “DC
電漿產生之非穩態現象”、 “先進電漿系統於下世代 PCB 與封裝產業之應用”，其中
亦報告了產業界例如三星、英特爾、富士康等公司對於相關技術開發之現況、 “InGaN
基高效能 LED 開發”、 “常壓冷電漿於氧化銅之合成應用”、 “利用溶液雷射剝鍍法
合成螢光材料”主要探討之材料系統為 Y2O3:Eu3+、 “熱電將技術於奈米顆粒合成”，
並以二氧化鈦奈米材料為例做一介紹等等議題。本日議程只有半天，下午大會則安排
與會人員做相關企業之參訪。  
10/06 星期六一早 8：00 隨即辦理 check-out 搭車前往日本關西機場於中午搭機
返國。總結此次日本行，參加研討會看到了相當多電漿技術之開發與應用，然就個人
專長而言，對於電漿技術於薄膜或奈米結構成長製程技術方面而言較感興趣，對於會
議中有些關於電漿相關物理計算等議題則跟專長有所差異因此較未多加注意。整體來
看，會中論文之發表以工業界常用之濺鍍技術來合成薄膜。有些新穎材料的備製皆以
濺鍍製程來備製，在未來實現工業化之應用仍有很大的潛力。此次研討會總計帶回一
本會議摘要論文集。整體而言，此次的研討會對於個人在電漿製程技術部分增進很多
新知，現正整理相關之資料以利將相關訊息導入下學期所開設之“半導體製程技術”課
程，讓研究生能瞭解相關研究領域之發展現況。最後亦感謝國科會計畫之經費補助以
利出國參與會議(NSC 100-2628-E-019-003-MY2)。 
 6
APCPST & SPSM 2012 Date for presentation 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Program Number here 
APCPST & SPSM 2012 page 
Integration of high density semiconducting zinc oxide nanostructures on 
perovskite oxides 
1Yuan-Chang Liang, 2Chia-Yen Hu, 3Xian-Shi Deng, 4Hua Zhong 
Institute of Materials Engineering, National Taiwan Ocean University, Taiwan 
yuanvictory@gmail.com 
 
The trend of development for materials technology is stressed on applications 
for novel devices. Therefore, synthesis of new materials with multi-functions has 
become a popular research field nowadays. It is important that one must consider 
the approaches of composite materials and design of special structures to reach the 
level of smart materials. Oxides have versatile physical properties. Integration of 
zinc oxide and perovskite oxide materials to form heterostructures provides a new 
approach to develop new materials. Moreover, heterostructure is also the basic 
structure for constructing most electronic devices. In this research work, the ZnO 
nanostructurs were grown on the sputtering deposited ZnO and Ag and thermal 
evaporated Au ultra-thin layers coated (100) SrTiO3 substrates. The pure wire-like 
ZnO nanostructures were grown in preferential c-axis direction on the ZnO, Au, and 
Ag ultra-thin film coated SrTiO3 substrates. The XRD results and SEM images show 
that the use of Au and Ag catalysts is an important factor to produce the ZnO 
nanostructures with a preferential c-axis direction. Among various SrTiO3 
substrates (Au/STO, Ag/STO, ZnO/STO, Au/ZnO/STO, and Ag/ZnO/STO), The ZnO 
nanostructures grown on the Au/STO substrate has a higher degree of vertical 
alignment. The value of UV to visible ratio reaches 55. The fabrication of the vertical 
aligned ZnO nanostructures with high crystalline quality is promising for the 
integration of novel wurtzite-perovskite functional devices. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key Words: Sputtering, Oxide, Perovskite, Nanostructure. 
 
APCPST & SPSM 2012 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：梁元彰 計畫編號：100-2628-E-019-003-MY2 
計畫名稱：低維氧化物奈米複合材料之合成與基礎物性研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 3 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 7 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 10 2 100% 
本兩年期研究計
畫相關經費執行
所獲成果計有 10
篇 SCI論文發表 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
