relation information, but curation requires extensive 
human resources. Existing databases also lack tools 
that can quickly visualize the network of genes 
related to a complex disease. In this proposed 
project, we hope to develop methods of identifying 
gene-disease relations in biomedical literature using 
information extraction (IE) techniques and design an 
interface/platform to provide this information to 
researchers. In our project｀s first year, we plan to 
develop several semantic analysis techniques, 
including recognizing gene/disease names, mapping 
genes to gene IDs, and identifying the 
results/conclusion section of papers. In the second 
year, we will develop software to identify sentences 
containing relations. We will then construct a 
semantic-role labeling system to identify and mark-up 
semantic relations in sentences. We will also develop 
a gene-disease relation extraction system that 
exploits the above mentioned information. The 
extracted relations will be compiled into a gene-
disease database. In year three, we hope to build a 
system that integrates the information from our 
relation extraction system and protein-protein 
interaction databases to construct a gene-disease 
network. Social network analysis techniques will be 
employed to determine key genes in a given disease. A 
software interface will be developed to visualize the 
gene network and help researchers understand the 
etiological factors and the pathogenesis of the given 
disease. We hope our technology will save researchers 
time and effort, helping them avoid fruitless and 
previously explored avenues of research and pointing 
them towards promising directions in the pathogenesis 
of complex diseases. 
英文關鍵詞：  
 
 2
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■成果報告   
□期中進度報告 
 
應用生醫文獻探勘與社交網路分析以挖掘與呈現複雜因子
遺傳疾病中之基因與疾病關聯 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 98－2221－E－155－060－MY3 
執行期間： 98 年 8 月 1 日 至  101 年 7 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：元智大學 資訊工程學系(所) 
 
計畫主持人：蔡宗翰 副教授 
計畫參與人員：王昱鈞、賴國豪、賴政佑、蔡偉棋、陳宏益、賴柏廷、 
      卜竹君、邱昱豪、楊岳霖、陳駿瑜、鄭鈞元、林冠丞 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  ■完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            ■涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年■二年後可公開查詢 
中   華   民   國 101 年  10  月  31  日 
 4
ABSTRACT 
 
Complex (multifactorial or polygenic) diseases are caused by a combination of genetic, environmental, and 
lifestyle factors. Discovering contributing factors to a complex disease and characterizing their contribution is 
a difficult undertaking because the effect of any single factor may be obscured or compounded by other 
contributing factors. Scientists investigating complex diseases must sift through a large and rapidly growing 
volume of articles and familiarize themselves with many disease related genes. Databases, such as GAD, 
collect gene-disease relation information, but curation requires extensive human resources. Existing databases 
also lack tools that can quickly visualize the network of genes related to a complex disease. In this proposed 
project, we hope to develop methods of identifying gene-disease relations in biomedical literature using 
information extraction (IE) techniques and design an interface/platform to provide this information to 
researchers. In our project's first year, we plan to develop several semantic analysis techniques, including 
recognizing gene/disease names, mapping genes to gene IDs, and identifying the results/conclusion section of 
papers. In the second year, we will develop software to identify sentences containing relations. We will then 
construct a semantic-role labeling system to identify and mark-up semantic relations in sentences. We will 
also develop a gene-disease relation extraction system that exploits the above mentioned information. The 
extracted relations will be compiled into a gene-disease database. In year three, we hope to build a system that 
integrates the information from our relation extraction system and protein-protein interaction databases to 
construct a gene-disease network. Social network analysis techniques will be employed to determine key 
genes in a given disease. A software interface will be developed to visualize the gene network and help 
researchers understand the etiological factors and the pathogenesis of the given disease. We hope our 
technology will save researchers time and effort, helping them avoid fruitless and previously explored 
avenues of research and pointing them towards promising directions in the pathogenesis of complex diseases. 
 
 6
11. Ryan T. K. Lin, Justin Chiu, Hong-Jie Dai, Richard Tzong-Han Tsai*, Min-Yuh Day, Wen-Lian Hsu, "A 
supervised learning approach to biological question answering", Integrated Computer-Aided Engineering,  
Volume 16,  Issue 3, P.271-P.281,  2009,07.(SCI)  
12. Richard Tzong-Han Tsai*, Hong-Jie Dai, Chi-Hsin Huang, Wen-Lian Hsu, "Semi-automatic 
conversion of BioProp semantic annotation to PASBio annotation", BMC Bioinformatics,  
9(Suppl 12):S18,  2008,12.(SCI)  
13. Larry Smith, Richard Tzong-Han Tsai, et al., "Overview of BioCreative II gene mention recognition", 
Genome Biology,  9(Suppl 2):S2,  2008,09.(SCI)  
14. Florian Leitner, Richard Tzong-Han Tsai, et al., "Introducing meta-services for biomedical information 
extraction", Genome Biology,  9(Suppl 2):S6,  2008,09.(SCI) 
15. Hong-Jie Dai, Chi-Hsin Huang, Ryan T. K. Lin, Richard Tzong-Han Tsai*, Wen-Lian Hsu, "BIOSMILE 
web search: a web application for annotating biomedical entities and relations", Nucleic Acid Research 
(Oxford Press),Vol. 36, Web Server issue, P.390–P.398, 2008, (SCI) 
研討會論文  
1. Johnny Chi-Yang Wu, Hong-Jie Dai, Richard Tzong-Han Tsai, Wen-Harn Pan and Wen-Lian Hsu, 
"T-HOD: A Gene Candidate Database for Cardiovascular Diseases", The 23rd International Conference 
on Genome Information (GIW 2012), 2012,12.  
2. Hong-Jie Dai, Richard Tzong-Han Tsai*, Wen-Lian Hsu*,  "Entity Disambiguation Using a 
Markov-Logic Network",  The 5th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing 
(IJCNLP2011, NLP top conference), P.846-P.855,  Chiang Mai, Thailand,  2011,11.  
3. Po-Ting Lai, Richard Tzong-Han Tsai*,  "A Dynamic Programming Re-ranking Approach to Enhance 
PPI Interactor Extraction",  The 9th International Conference on Bioinformatics of the Asia-Pacific 
Bioinformatics Network (InCoB 2010),  P.35-P.38,  2011,09.  
4. Hong-Jie Dai, Wei-Chi Tsai, Richard Tzong-Han Tsai*, Wen-Lian Hsu, "Enhancing Search Results with 
Semantic Annotation Using Augmented Browsing", The 22nd International Joint Conference on 
Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI 2011, AI top conference),  P.2418-P.2423,  2011,07.  
5. Hong-Jie Dai, Po-Ting Lai, Richard Tzong-Han Tsai*, Wen-Lian Hsu*, "Global Ranking via Data 
Fusion", The 23rd International Conference on Computational Linguistics (COLING 2010, NLP top 
conference),  P.223-P.231,  2010,08. 
6. Richard Tzong-Han Tsai* Po-Ting Lai, Hong-Jie Dai, Chi-Hsin Huang, Yue-Yang Bow, Yen-Ching 
 8
研究計畫前言與目的 
 
In biomedical literature mining, an important task is to identify disease related genes as its bio-signature. 
Previous work such as the genetic association database (GAD)[1], which is built on the basis of manual 
processes, has high manpower costs owing to the difficulty of maintaining these databases with the large 
volume of ever-growing new literatures. In addition, the study of disease pathogenesis has become 
increasingly difficult because of the diverse factors involved in disease progression. In most cases, 
development of these diseases is modulated by the variations of multiple genes and their interactions with 
environmental factors. Therefore, elucidating the pathogenic mechanisms of diseases turns out to be a 
demanding task. To investigate the complex genetics behind diseases systematically, it is necessary to 
integrate the finding of both small-scale studies and high-throughput researches. However, there are only a 
few databases and review papers that compile HOD related genes from the literature.  
In the field of diabetes, T1Dbase [2] integrates valuable information on candidate genes from several 
databases for type 1 diabetes, while T2D-Db [3] compiles from PubMed human, mouse and rat genes 
involved in the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes. For obesity genetics, the review paper “The Human Obesity 
Gene Map: The 2005 Update” [4] lists candidate genes and/or potential loci up until the end of 2005. For 
hypertension genes, GAD lists hundreds of hypertension candidate genes along with genes for several other 
diseases. All of the above mentioned resources were compiled manually. However, due to limited human 
resources, such databases cannot always be kept up-to-date. In recent years, various groups have proposed 
using automated text mining approaches to reduce human effort in constructing and updating such 
databases[5,6,7,8,9]. SNPs3D [7] and PubMeth [6] are two such databases constructed using text-mining 
approaches coupled with manual review and annotation steps. SNPs3D compiles candidate genes and single 
nucleotides polymorphism (SNP) sites related to cancers, neurodegenerative diseases and metabolic 
syndromes. PubMeth contains information on DNA methylation for several cancers. These two databases 
extract gene names that have a high co-occurrence with the target diseases. However, using the 
co-occurrence-based approach alone tends to yield a huge number of false-positive relations because of the 
lack of syntactic and semantic analysis. 
Our database, T-HOD employed the state-of-art text-mining technologies we recently developed, including a 
gene mention recognition/normalization (GN) system [10,11,12] and a disease-gene relation extraction 
system[13]. Since gene names vary a great deal, different genes may contain the same name. Moreover, gene 
names may be ambiguous and easily confused with terms employed in other research fields. Our GN system 
was designed to alleviate the above problems, which was used to recognize gene terms and normalize them to 
their corresponding Entrez Gene IDs. In addition, we recently achieved promising results in extracting 
hypertension-related genes[13]. We extended and optimized the above systems to extract HOD genes in our 
T-HOD database. 
 
 
 10
Granularity of relations is another aspect of relation extraction being explored. Some studies have attempted 
to extract and characterize the type of relation between entities[23,26]. Tsujii et al. [25] classifies gene-disease 
relations into two types: "etiology" and "clinical marker". Bundschus et al. [29] classified relations between 
genes and diseases into five types describing a wide variety of molecular conditions, ranging from genetic to 
transcriptional and phosphorylation events. 
 
 12
sections--for example "investigate" in the Objectives section, or "conclude" in the conclusion. The last feature 
is the 'title NE feature'. Since an abstract's title can be treated as a summary of the abstract, and NEs in the 
title often appear in the Results section, we can use co-occurrence frequency of NEs in the title and in a given 
sentence to identify the Results section. 
Since there are no publicly available section categorization corpora, we constructed a corpus using the 
following procedure. Firstly, we compiled dozens of likely section headings from [34] into a list. Secondly, 
we searched PubMed using the keywords queries "hypertension" and "hypertension and (gene or DNA or 
RNA)" and compiled the approximately thirteen thousand results into a corpus after filtering out un-sectioned 
abstracts. Thirdly, we designed and implemented a program to remove section tags from the corpus abstracts. 
Finally, our in-lab biologists manually checked section boundaries in the collected abstracts. 
To evaluate the performance of our section categorizer, we applied three-fold cross-validation using this 
corpus. Table 1 shows the evaluation results. As you can see, the categorizer achieves a satisfactory F-score of 
98.82% with a precision of 98.77% and a recall of 98.87%. 
Key HOD (hypertension, obesity and diabetes) related gene extraction 
Formulation 
For convenience, when referring to disease-gene pairs in the following explanations, we denote the disease 
named entity as D, the gene named entity as G, and the sentence containing the D-G pair as S. In this paper, 
our goal is to extract D-G relations from sentences in an abstract and rank them according to the degree of 
disease relatedness. We formulate the first subtask as a binary classification problem: determining if the target 
D-G pair is a key relation. All features of a target D-G pair are extracted from S. We then rank all extracted 
genes according their maximum D-G probability in an abstract as calculated by the classifier. 
Maximum Entropy Model 
The maximum entropy (ME) model is a flexible statistical framework that assigns an outcome to each 
instance on the basis of the history of that instance, which is made up of all the conditioning data that enable 
one to assign probabilities to the space of all outcomes. In D-G relation extraction, a history can be viewed as 
all the information related to the target pair that is derivable from the training corpus. ME computes the 
probability, p(y|x), for any y from the space of all possible outcomes, Y, and for every x from the space of all 
possible histories, X. 
The computation of p(y|x) in an ME model depends on a set of binary features, which are useful for making 
predictions about the outcome. For instance, a pair that contains "associated with" between D and G is very 
likely to be disease related. Formally, we can represent this feature as follows: 
   


 

                                                                                       otherwise :0
nKeyRelatio   and trueciatedgrams_asso-DG_n-Inter if :1
,
yx
yxf  
 14
1. Inter-DG chunk heads 
Similar to surrounding word features, these chunk heads are treated as bag-of-words. 
2. Surrounding chunk heads 
These features include the two chunk heads to the left of the D-G pair and one chunk head to the right. 
3. Inter-DG chunk types 
Parse tree path features  
We also parse each sentence with a full-sentence syntactic parser to generate its full parse tree. We can then 
use the syntactic path through the parse tree from the first NE to the second NE (not always D to G) as a 
feature. 
For example, in Figure 2, the path from "ACE-2 gene" to "hypertension" is represented by the string 
NP↑PP↑NP↑S↓VP↓PP↓NP, where ↑ and ↓ represent upward and downward movement in the tree, 
respectively. 
Proposed features 
Template features  
Although a few Inter-DG words and surrounding words tend to appear almost exclusively to true D-G relation 
pairs (e.g. "associate" for Inter-DG words), this information alone is not sufficient for argument-type 
classification for two reasons: (1) the collocation of surrounding words and Inter-DG words is a more precise 
indicator of a true D-G relation then using Inter-DG words; and (2) the window of surrounding words is 
limited to 2, making some important surrounding words are missed, but expanding the window size may 
introduce more noise words. Templates composed of unlimited surrounding words and Inter-DG words can be 
helpful for identifying the argument type of a constituent. 
Our template generation (TG) algorithm, which extracts syntactic patterns for D-G pairs using Smith and 
Waterman's local alignment algorithm [42], starts by pairing all sentences containing true relations according 
to their similarity. Closely-matched pairs are then aligned word-by-word and a pattern satisfying the 
alignment result is created. Each slot in the template is given by the corresponding constraint information 
expressed in the form of a word (e.g. "associated"). If two aligned sentences have nothing in common for a 
given slot, the TG algorithm puts a wildcard in the position. Figure 3 shows a pair of aligned arguments from 
which the TG algorithm generated the template "<gene> * is associated with * <hypertension>". In the first 
position both sentences share a common NE type (gene); in the 2nd to 4th positions they have the same phrase, 
"is associated with"; and in the end position they share a common NE type, hypertension. The complete TG 
algorithm is described with pseudo code in Algorithm 1. The similarity function used to compare the 
similarity of two tokens in Smith and Waterman's algorithm is defined as: 
 16
Because the focused D-G pair is usually located at the end of the abstract, the relative position of a sentence in 
an abstract provides useful information. Therefore, we define the following equation to represent the relative 
position of a sentence: 
  


 
abstract in the sentences ofnumber  the
abstract in theposition  s'10
_
S
Spositionrelative  
Since ME can only handle discrete feature values, we set ten binary features corresponding to the relative 
position function's possible values ranging between 1 and 10. 
2. Section features 
These features indicate in which section S is located. S's section is calculated by the above mentioned section 
categorizer. There are four section features: Objective, Methods, Results, Conclusion. 
 
Assembly of T-HOD 
The construction of the T-HOD database is comprised of three stages: (1) Dataset Collection and 
Pre-processing, (2) Candidate Gene Extraction, and (3) Content Verification. We collected abstracts on HOD 
from PubMed, and used text mining techniques to extract HOD candidate genes and SNPs from them. The 
T-HOD curators verify the extracted list and curate the knowledge into the T-HOD database. In the following 
sub-sections, we will describe each stage in detail.  
Stage 1: Dataset Collection and Preprocessing 
In this stage, we collect HOD-related abstracts from PubMed and filter out those that are non-genetic. The 
filtered dataset are then pre-processed by several text mining components. After pre-processing, the 
genetic-related abstracts were split into sentences associated with section tags by using our section 
categorization component[43], such as “Results” and “Conclusion”, which indicate their corresponding 
sections.  
Stage 2: Candidate Genes Extraction 
In Stage 2, we extract HOD-related candidate genes from the pre-processed dataset through the following 
steps. First, we employ a disease named entity recognition (NER) system to recognize disease terms in a 
sentence. Second, a GN system is used to recognize and normalize mentioned genes to their corresponding 
Entrez Gene IDs. Based on the results of the previous steps, if a disease term and a gene are present in the 
same sentence, they are extracted as a disease-gene (D-G) candidate pair. Finally, the D-G relation extraction 
system determines whether a relation indeed exists within this D-G pair. 
Stage 3: Manual curation 
While the employed text mining components have shown satisfactory scores (cf. Table 1), the text mined 
candidate genes are examined by all T-HOD curators in Stage 3 to further ensure the quality of the curated 
content. In this stage, newly extracted candidate genes and their corresponding evidence sentences and 
abstracts are presented to the T-HOD curators. T-HOD curators review each extracted candidate gene and 
remove the incorrect results. Currently, the curation process has only been done on abstracts before 2011. 
 18
結果與討論 
Results: 
Experiment 1: the performance of the proposed features 
We examine the detailed statistics of all the experiments in Table 3. In the table, in addition to CUˆA , we also 
list the sample standard deviation of the AUC score ( AUCSˆ ). We apply a two-sample t test to examine whether 
one configuration is better than the other with statistical significance. The null hypothesis, which states that 
there is no difference between the two configurations, is given by where μA is the true mean F-score of 
configuration A, μB is the mean of configuration B, and the alternative hypothesis is 
A two-sample t-test is applied since we assume that the samples are independent. As the number of samples is 
large and the standard deviations of the samples are known, the following t-statistic is appropriate: 
If the resulting t score is equal to or less than 1.67 with a degree of freedom of 29 and a statistical significance 
level of 95%, the null hypothesis is accepted; otherwise it is rejected. 
Here, we first compare the retrieval performance achieved by individually adding template features (B+T) and 
position features (B+P) to the baseline system (B). We then examine their combined performance (B+T+P). 
In Table 2, we can see that both template and position features improve the baseline's retrieval performance. 
Using position features can almost double the original AUC score (0.3604), while template features only 
result in a marginal improvement (0.0114). Including both enhances retrieval performance to 0.8169, 
indicating that they are complementary and not have overlapping effects. 
Experiment 2: the performance for extracting diabetes-gene pairs 
For comparison, we developed two naive relation extraction methods focused on diabetes: (1) treat all 
recognized genes in the Results or Conclusion section as candidates; and (2) if a gene co-occurs with 
"diabetes" terms in one sentence of the Results or Conclusion section, treat it as a candidate. In all cases, we 
rank the candidate genes according to their frequencies. 
As shown in Table 3, our best configuration of Exp. 1 significantly outperforms the four naive methods. 
Furthermore, compared to the performance reported in Experiment 1, the performance slightly increases by 
1.16% in diabetes domain. The results show that our method is useful and general enough to extract 
disease-gene relation pairs in different disease domains. 
 20
Error analysis 
We summarized the errors into the following main types. 
1. Errors caused by incorrectly tagged NEs 
NER errors reduce the precision of our system greatly because non-gene entities were incorrectly included in 
candidate H-G pairs, especially those NE types that are frequently appear in hypertension articles. For 
example, chemical compound NEs, such as TZDs (thiazide diuretics) and single-nucleotide polymorphism 
(SNP) NEs, such as "VNTR" and "825T allele" are two main NE types that are incorrectly identified as gene 
names. We believe constructing NE recognizers that can identify both types may effectively diminish such 
false positives. 
2. Errors caused by incorrectly categorized sections 
The analysis of the distribution of key genes over sections explains why the proposed position features are 
effective for determining key hypertension genes. Unfortunately, not all abstracts are written following the 
normal Objective-Methods-Results-Conclusion flow. Sections in such abstracts may be misclassified. Our 
system may therefore be misled by these incorrect section features. Take the H-G pair (ACE I/D, essential 
hypertension) in the article shown in Figure 6 for example. We can see that this abstract are not explicitly 
sectioned. In the feature generation step, our section categorizer classifies S as part of the Results section. In 
fact, S should be in the Methods section. Although the uncertain meaning of the surrounding word "whether" 
indicates that this H-G pair is not a key H-G relation in this article, it is still tagged as a key relation because 
of the strong influence brought by its section feature. One possible solution is to collect the patterns that 
describe uncertain relations or relations in previous studies and to exploit such information in key gene 
extraction. 
3. Difference between T-HOD and GAD 
There are several possible reasons that may result in the difference between T-HOD and GAD results. In order 
for curating a gene-disease relation into our T-HOD, the identity of both the candidate gene and disease terms 
must be normalized. In the current implementation, gene terms are normalized by a collective entity 
disambiguation method [44] to its corresponding Entrez Gene ID, while disease terms are recognized through 
a list of vocabularies. Error in the normalization of genes and the imperfect list of disease terms utilized may 
lead to the loss of relations that are present within documents. In addition, the difficulty of extract D-G 
relation will increase when one or both the disease and gene are expressed with an anaphoric expression. 
Furthermore, T-HOD only recognizes D-G relations within the same sentence. Cross sentence relations are 
currently not available, but it is a topic worth studying in the future. Cooper and Kershenbaum[45] has 
identified co-reference as one of the reasons for the decreasing recall in biomedical relation extraction task. 
Finally, determining negations within a sentence is also an important issue. The present T-HOD system can 
only deal with negation descriptions in basic phrase structures, which may be insufficient in distinguishing 
more complex negation narratives.  
 22
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Example of paired similar sentences containing D-G pairs. 
 
 
Figure 4. Section categorization. 
 
 
Figure 5. The distribution of key hypertension genes in different sections. 
 24
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Config Precision Recall AUC 
(1) 0.3652 0.7925 0.77 
(2) 0.5679 0.8679 0.6866 
B+P+T 0.6522 0.8491 0.8300 
 
Table 3. Diabetes-gene pair extraction performance 
Config 
Baseline 
Features 
Template 
Features 
Positional 
Features 
CUˆA  Sˆ  AUC  t  )67.1?(AUCAUC B  t  
Baseline +   0.4936 0.1261 N/A N/A N/A 
B+T + +  0.5133 0.1057 0.0114 0.65 No 
B+P +  + 0.8140 0.087 0.3604 11.44 Yes 
B+P+T + + + 0.8184 0.084 0.3783 11.75 Yes 
 
Table 2. Performance improvement achieved by each feature set 
 26
參考文獻 
1. Becker K, Barnes K, Bright T, Wang A (2004) The Genetic Association Database. Nature Genetics 36: 
431-432. 
2. (2007) T1DBase: integration and presentation of complex data for type 1 diabetes research. Nucleic acids 
research 35: 6338. 
3. Agrawal S, Dimitrova N, Nathan P, Udayakumar K, Lakshmi SS, et al. (2008) T2D-Db: An integrated 
platform to study the molecular basis of Type 2 diabetes. BMC Genomics 9: 320. 
4. Rankinen T, Zuberi A, Chagnon YC, Weisnagel SJ, Argyropoulos G, et al. (2006) The Human Obesity Gene 
Map: The 2005 Update. Obesity 14: 529-644. 
5. Fang YC, Lai PT, Dai HJ, Hsu WL (2011) MeInfoText 2.0: gene methylation and cancer relation extraction 
from biomedical literature. BMC Bioinformatics 12: 471. 
6. Ongenaert M, Van Neste L, De Meyer T, Menschaert G, Bekaert S, et al. (2008) PubMeth: a cancer 
methylation database combining text-mining and expert annotation. Nucleic Acids Res 36: D842-846. 
7. Yue P, Melamud E, Moult J (2006) SNPs3D: Candidate gene and SNP selection for association studies. 
BMC Bioinformatics 7: -. 
8. Fang YC, Huang HC, Chen HH, Juan HF (2008) TCMGeneDIT: a database for associated traditional 
Chinese medicine, gene and disease information using text mining. BMC Complement Altern Med 8: 
58. 
9. Hahn U, Wermter J, Blasczyk R, Horn PA (2007) Text mining: powering the database revolution. Nature 
448: 130. 
10. Dai H-J, Chang Y-C, Tsai RT-H, Hsu W-L (2011) Integration of gene normalization stages and 
co-reference resolution using a Markov logic network. Bioinformatics 27: 2586-2594. 
11. Dai H-J, Lai P-T, Tsai RT-H (2010) Multistage Gene Normalization and SVM-Based Ranking for Protein 
Interactor Extraction in Full-Text Articles. IEEE/ACM Trans Comput Biol Bioinformatics 7: 412-420. 
12. Tsai R, Sung C, Dai H, Hung H, Sung T, et al. (2006) NERBio: using selected word conjunctions, term 
normalization, and global patterns to improve biomedical named entity recognition. BMC 
Bioinformatics 7 Suppl 5: S11. 
13. Tsai RT-H, Lai P-T, Dai H-J, Huang C-H, Bow Y-Y, et al. (2009) HypertenGene: extracting key 
hypertension genes from biomedical literature with position and automatically-generated template 
features. BMC Bioinformatics 10 Suppl 15: S9. 
14. Shimbo M, Yamasaki T, Matsumoto Y (2003) Using sectioning information for text retrieval: a case study 
with the MEDLINE abstracts. Proceedings of Second International Workshop on Active Mining 
(AM'03). 
15. Yamamoto Y, Takagi T (2005) A Sentence Classification System for Multi Biomedical Literature 
Summarization. Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Data Engineering Workshops: 
IEEE Computer Society. pp. 1163. 
16. Ruch P, Boyer C, Chichester C, Tbahriti I, Geissbühler A, et al. (2007) Using argumentation to extract key 
sentences from biomedical abstracts. International Journal of Medical Informatics 76: 195-200. 
17. Sha F, Pereira F (2003) Shallow parsing with conditional random fields. Proceedings of the 2003 
 28
33. Lafferty J, McCallum A, Pereira F (2001) Conditional random fields: Probabilistic models for segmenting 
and labeling sequence data. International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML): 282 - 289. 
34. Hirohata K, Okazaki N, Ananiadou S, Ishizuka M (2008) Identifying Sections in Scientific Abstracts using 
Conditional Random Fields. Proceedings of 3rd International Joint Conference of Natural Language 
Processing (IJCNLP2008) Hyderabad, India. 
35. Lin R, Dai H-J, Bow Y-Y, Day M-Y, Tsai R-H, et al. (2008) Result Identification for Biomedical Abstracts 
Using Conditional Random Fields. Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Information 
Reuse and Integration (IEEE IRI 2008): July, 13-15 2008; Las Vegas, Nevada, USA: 122 - 126. 
36. Weissberg R, Buker S (1990) Writing up research: experimental research report writing for students of 
English. 
37. Darroch J, Ratcliff D (1972) Generalized Iterative Scaling for Log-Linear Models. The Annals of 
Mathematical Statistics. 
38. Nocedal J, Wright S (1999) Numerical Optimization. 
39. Kambhatla N (2004) Combining lexical, syntactic, and semantic features with maximum entropy models 
for extracting relations. Proceedings of the ACL 2004 on Interactive poster and demonstration 
sessions. 
40. GuoDong Z, Jian S, Jie Z, Min Z (2005) Exploring Various Knowledge in Relation Extraction. 
Proceedings of the 43rd Annual Meeting on Association for Computational Linguistics: 427 - 434. 
41. Xiao J, Su J, Zhou G, Tan C (2005) Protein-Protein Interaction Extraction: A Supervised Learning 
Approach. Proceedings of the First International Symposium on Semantic Mining in Biomedicine 
(SMBM): 51 - 59. 
42. Smith T, Waterman M (1981) Identification of common molecular subsequences. Journal of Molecular 
Biology 147: 195 - 197. 
43. Lin RTK, Dai H-J, Bow Y-Y, Chiu JL-T, Tsai RT-H (2009) Using conditional random fields for result 
identification in biomedical abstracts Integrated Computer-Aided Engineering 16: 339-352. 
44. Dai H-J, Tsai R, Hsu W-L (2011) Entity Disambiguation Using a Markov-Logic Network. Proceedings of 
the 5th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (IJCNLP). Chiang Mai, 
Thailand. pp. 846-855. 
45. Cooper JW, Kershenbaum A (2005) Discovery of protein-protein interactions using a combination of 
linguistic, statistical and graphical information. BMC Bioinformatics 6: 143. 
 
 
 30
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
 
文獻探勘之主要目的，是協助生醫學家以更省時且更有效率的方式自大量的 
文獻中，擷取出所需的資訊。T-HOD (Text-Mined Hypertension, Obesity and 
Diabetes Candidate Gene Database)是一個為文獻探勘的相關技術為基礎而發
展出來的資料庫。其包含了高血壓、肥胖以及糖尿病三種疾病的相關基因資
訊，並為每一種基因提供額外的資訊和文獻中的句子為佐證。另外資料庫也
提供了每年這些疾病的相關基因數字統計及以視覺化的方式呈現出基因之間
的交互關係。此資料庫整合了數種獨創之文獻探勘技術，為心血管疾病之相
關生物反應路徑的研究提供更有力的佐證，可有效率的降低生命科學基礎研
究所需花費的心力和經費。未來可進一步將其擴展並應用於生物標記
(biomarker)的相關研究上，提升生物標記於疾病治療上的臨床價值。藉由觀
察生物標記的變化和修飾，我們能夠更有效率的掌握並判斷目前的病況，進
而協助臨床上的診斷以及治療。 
 
 
 32
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表(二) 
日期： 101 年 10 月 7 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：應用生醫文獻探勘與社交網路分析以挖掘與呈現複雜
因子遺傳疾病中之基因與疾病關聯 
計畫主持人：蔡宗翰 
計畫編號：NSC98-2221-E-155-060-MY3  領域：生物資訊 
研發成果名稱 
（中文）疾病名稱辨認及正規化元件 
（英文）Disease recognition and normalization component 
成果歸屬機構 元智大學 發明人 
(創作人) 
蔡宗翰 
技術說明 
和基因名稱相同，一種疾病於同一篇生醫文獻中可能會以好幾種
方式呈現，因此也容易將其和其餘醫學用詞混淆。為了具體說明
文獻中基因和疾病之間的關聯，本計畫專注於發展一個辨識疾病
名稱，並將其對應到 PubMed 所提供之 MeSH (Medical Subject 
Headings)資料庫中的疾病分類下。這對於資料擷取及搜尋引擎系
統都有很大的幫助，而藉由確認後的疾病資訊也可以更進一步應
用於其餘生物關聯的擷取上。 
Similar to gene names, disease named entities in a biomedical abstract 
also possess diverse exhibitions, leading to their ambiguity with other 
clinical proper terms. In order to specify the relationship between 
disease and genes, we focused on the development of a disease named 
entity recognition and normalization component, which links disease 
terms to its corresponding category under the MeSH (Medical Subject 
Headings) database. This can not only improve the efficiency of 
document indexing and retrieval, but also further support the retrieval 
of other biomedical relations. 
產業別 生物資訊、基礎生醫和臨床研究之相關領域 
技術/產品應用範圍 論文書目管理系統，圖書館軟體，資料庫搜尋引擎 
技術移轉可行性及預期
效益 
對於自動化的生物文章資訊擷取有莫大的助益，可有效率的協助
基礎生醫和臨床研究的發展。 
     註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
 
 34
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告(一) 
                                    日期：101 年 7 月 31 日 
一、參加會議經過 
JSAI 研討會是日本 Society for Information Reuse and Integration (SIRI) 組織的年度重要年會，亦為人工
智慧(Artificial Intelligence)領域重要國際會議之一。本屆大會於日本山口縣教育會館舉辦，日本主要研
究學術機關東京大學、御茶水女子大學、同志社大學、大阪大學等的頂尖學者參加踴躍之外，主要相
關商業公司如日本電信電話株式會社、富士通研究所、電力中央研究所等等也有許多重要的研究者參
加。國內亦有多位研究資訊檢索領域的學者參加，包含成大盧文祥教授、中央大學張嘉惠教授等。 
 
研討會於 6 月 12 日早上開幕。 
本人於 6 月 14 日起參加。 
 
大會本日早上安排了三場人工智慧領域講座，邀請到日本產業技術綜合研究所神德徹雄教授、後藤真
校教授，以及拓殖大學石川勉教授針對 AI 領域研究成果及經驗進行深入演講，令人獲益良多。下午
計畫編號 NSC98－2221－E－155－060－MY3 
計畫名稱 應用生醫文獻探勘與社交網路分析以挖掘與呈現複雜因子遺傳疾病中
之基因與疾病關聯 
出國人員
姓名 蔡宗翰 
服務機構
及職稱 元智大學資訊工程學系副教授 
會議時間 
101 年 6 月 12 日至
101 年 6 月 15 日 會議地點 日本山口縣教育會館 
會議名稱 
(中文)第 26 屆人工智慧學會全國大會 
(英文) The 26th Annual Conference of The Japanese Society for Artificial 
Intelligence (JSAI 2012) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 
(英文) From Entity Recognition to Entity Linking: A Survey of Advanced Entity 
Linking Techniques 
附件四 
 36
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告(二) 
                                    日期：101 年 7 月 31 日 
一、參加會議經過 
JSAI 為日本人工知能學會所舉辦之全國性年會，為日本資訊科學界規模最盛大之年會之一，歷年於日
本各大城市輪流舉辦，本次已是第二十六屆，於西日本山口縣的首府山口市舉辦，共有來自日本與其
它各國的上百位學者與研究生參與。而本次 JSAI 為擴大國際學術交流，首次加入舉辦 International 
Session，廣邀國際學者投稿參與，並以英語進行交流，拉近日本與其它國家學者之間的距離。本次以
英語投稿之論文幸獲 JSAI 大會接受得以於 International Session 場次中口頭發表。本次 JSAI 年會國內
亦有多位研究人工智慧領域的學者率領研究團隊參加，包含國立中央大學資訊工程學系張嘉惠教授與
國立成功大學資訊工程學系高宏宇教授等人。 
 
本次 JSAI 之 International Session 於六月十四日舉行，故本人於六月十三日搭乘晚班機抵達日本福岡，
計畫編號 NSC98-2221-E-155-060-MY3 
計畫名稱 應用生醫文獻探勘與社交網路分析以挖掘與呈現複雜因子遺傳疾病中
之基因與疾病關聯 
出國人員
姓名 王昱鈞 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立臺灣大學資訊工程系博士研
究生 
會議時間 
101 年 6 月 12 日至
101 年 6 月 15 日 會議地點 日本山口縣教育會館 
會議名稱 
(中文)第 26 屆人工智慧學會全國大會 
(英文) The 26th Annual Conference of The Japanese Society for Artificial 
Intelligence (JSAI  2012) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 漢文佛典文獻借詞對擷取方法 
(英文) Extracting Transliteration Pairs from Classical Chinese Buddhist 
Literature 
 1
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告(一) 
                                    日期：101 年 7 月 31 日 
一、參加會議經過 
JSAI 研討會是日本 Society for Information Reuse and Integration (SIRI) 組織的年度重要年會，亦為人工
智慧(Artificial Intelligence)領域重要國際會議之一。本屆大會於日本山口縣教育會館舉辦，日本主要研
究學術機關東京大學、御茶水女子大學、同志社大學、大阪大學等的頂尖學者參加踴躍之外，主要相
關商業公司如日本電信電話株式會社、富士通研究所、電力中央研究所等等也有許多重要的研究者參
加。國內亦有多位研究資訊檢索領域的學者參加，包含成大盧文祥教授、中央大學張嘉惠教授等。 
 
研討會於 6 月 12 日早上開幕。 
本人於 6 月 14 日起參加。 
 
大會本日早上安排了三場人工智慧領域講座，邀請到日本產業技術綜合研究所神德徹雄教授、後藤真
校教授，以及拓殖大學石川勉教授針對 AI 領域研究成果及經驗進行深入演講，令人獲益良多。下午
計畫編號 NSC98－2221－E－155－060－MY3 
計畫名稱 應用生醫文獻探勘與社交網路分析以挖掘與呈現複雜因子遺傳疾病中
之基因與疾病關聯 
出國人員
姓名 蔡宗翰 
服務機構
及職稱 元智大學資訊工程學系副教授 
會議時間 
101 年 6 月 12 日至
101 年 6 月 15 日 會議地點 日本山口縣教育會館 
會議名稱 
(中文)第 26 屆人工智慧學會全國大會 
(英文) The 26th Annual Conference of The Japanese Society for Artificial 
Intelligence (JSAI 2012) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 
(英文) From Entity Recognition to Entity Linking: A Survey of Advanced Entity 
Linking Techniques 
附件四 
 3
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告(二) 
                                    日期：101 年 7 月 31 日 
一、參加會議經過 
JSAI 為日本人工知能學會所舉辦之全國性年會，為日本資訊科學界規模最盛大之年會之一，歷年於日
本各大城市輪流舉辦，本次已是第二十六屆，於西日本山口縣的首府山口市舉辦，共有來自日本與其
它各國的上百位學者與研究生參與。而本次 JSAI 為擴大國際學術交流，首次加入舉辦 International 
Session，廣邀國際學者投稿參與，並以英語進行交流，拉近日本與其它國家學者之間的距離。本次以
英語投稿之論文幸獲 JSAI 大會接受得以於 International Session 場次中口頭發表。本次 JSAI 年會國內
亦有多位研究人工智慧領域的學者率領研究團隊參加，包含國立中央大學資訊工程學系張嘉惠教授與
國立成功大學資訊工程學系高宏宇教授等人。 
 
本次 JSAI 之 International Session 於六月十四日舉行，故本人於六月十三日搭乘晚班機抵達日本福岡，
計畫編號 NSC98-2221-E-155-060-MY3 
計畫名稱 應用生醫文獻探勘與社交網路分析以挖掘與呈現複雜因子遺傳疾病中
之基因與疾病關聯 
出國人員
姓名 王昱鈞 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立臺灣大學資訊工程系博士研
究生 
會議時間 
101 年 6 月 12 日至
101 年 6 月 15 日 會議地點 日本山口縣教育會館 
會議名稱 
(中文)第 26 屆人工智慧學會全國大會 
(英文) The 26th Annual Conference of The Japanese Society for Artificial 
Intelligence (JSAI  2012) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 漢文佛典文獻借詞對擷取方法 
(英文) Extracting Transliteration Pairs from Classical Chinese Buddhist 
Literature 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/11/01
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 應用生醫文獻探勘與社交網路分析以挖掘與呈現複雜因子遺傳疾病中之基因
與疾病關聯
計畫主持人: 蔡宗翰
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-155-060-MY3 學門領域: 生物資訊 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 基因與蛋白質名稱辨認及正規化元件
(英文) Gene/Protein recognition and normalization component
成果歸屬機構
元智大學 發明人
(創作人)
蔡宗翰
技術說明
(中文) 由於生物醫學的文獻中對於基因命名非常多元，因此同一個名字很有可能會容易
跟其他的基因或醫學專有名詞產生混淆；然而本計畫所發展出的名稱辨認及正規
化元件能夠利用文獻中的資訊，辨認出基因名稱的確切身分，並將其所對應到資
料庫中所指的特定基因，給予其特定的Entrez Gene ID。 
這項技術無論是對於資料擷取，或是搜尋引擎系統都有相當大的幫助，且藉由確
認後的Entrez Gene ID也可以更進一步連結到其他生物資料庫的資訊。
(英文) Since gene names within biomedical texts are usually ambiguous, identifying the true 
identity of these named entities and relating them to a public database is rather difficult. 
In this project, we developed a technique that returns Entrez Gene identifiers 
corresponding to the existing human genes in biomedical abstracts. This can not only 
improve the efficiency of document indexing and retrieval, but also further support more 
sophisticated information extraction tasks.
產業別 其他專業、科學及技術服務業
技術/產品應用範圍 論文書目管理系統，圖書館軟體，資料庫搜尋引擎
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
對於自動化的生物文章資訊擷取有莫大的助益，可有效率的協助基礎生醫和臨床研究的
發展。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
