 2
???????? 2006? 7?? SCI?? Process Biochemistry???? 
https://nscnt12.nsc.gov.tw/APPLYFORM/WRITINGS/A120456198/prbi_8063_galley_proof.pd.pdf 
 
Revealing threshold criteria of biostimulation for dye-laden 
wastewater treatment using immobilized cell systems  
Bor-Yann Chen* 
*Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering 
National I-Lan University 
I-Lan, 260 Taiwan 
E-mail: bychen@niu.edu.tw; Fax: +886-3-9357025 
 
 
                                                 
* To whom correspondence should be addressed. Fax: +886-3-9357025. E-mail: bychen@niu.edu.tw. 
 4
Nomenclature 
C Dye concentration in the exit stream (mg L-1) 
C0 Dye concentration in the inlet stream (mg L-1) 
D  Dilution rate (h-1 or day-1) 
DC Dye concentration (mg L-1) 
F   Flow rate of the dye-laden medium (L h-1) 
k Decolorization rate constant (L day-1)  
MAIC Maximum allowable inlet concentration (mg L-1) 
MATC Maximum allowable treatable concentration (mg L-1) 
t Culture time (h) 
t  Time to apply staircase input (d) 
u(t) Heaviside function or the unit step function (i.e. u(t-k)=


>
<
kt
kt
1
0
) 
V Working volume (L) 
X Cell concentration (or OD600; -) 
 
Greek letter and symbol 
α Decay rate constant (day-1)  
∆DC   Maximum allowable treatment capacity (mg L-1) 
@ At 
µ Specific growth rate (h-1; µ=
dt
Xd ln ) 
∀ For all 
∃ There exists 
 6
that richer media (e.g., LB medium) as nutrient sources apparently provided 
conditions for more well-immobilized and bred cells attached upon packing matrices, 
resulting in a more significant increase in biomass per unit working volume and larger 
biodegradation capability for color removal.  Although LB medium is well known to 
be rich in essential nutrients as a typical growth medium for many bacteria, it is not 
economically feasible for practical applications in wastewater treatment.  Thus, this 
first-attempt study tended to use a systematic approach to determine what percentages 
of LB medium (e.g., 0.1x LB, 0.2x LB) should be at least supplemented as the most 
promising strategy for the cost-effective decolorization.  The most significant is to 
provide a plausible approach to disclose the criteria for threshold operation (e.g., 
maximal treatment capacity and maximum allowable dye concentration in inlet stream) 
of ICSs. 
Although ICSs were introduced for myriads of wastewater treatments since 
1970s [6, 7], there are still no critical criteria with a generally sound rationale and 
feasible principle to simply suggest on-site professionals whether the long-term 
operation will be either in an effectively stable manner or will simply cause a process 
failure due to its complex transport phenomena (e.g., mass transfer resistance, 
adsorption and desorption; [8]).  Moreover, the prediction of performance changes 
with respect to time when the process is challenged with sudden variations in 
operation conditions (e.g., shock loadings) over a short period of time can be difficult, 
as the models may be not always feasible to include additional parameters significant 
to characterize the long-term dynamic responses appearing in dichotomous guise (i.e., 
operation success or failure; [9]).  To exploit the microbial attachment to a full extent 
in bioprocess industries and to prevent the processes from operation failure, it is 
apparently imperative that the kinetic parameters of biodecolorization are reasonably 
determined on pilot-scale.  Therefore, this study provides a first attempt (i.e., 
 8
∆DC) under operation situations.   
 
2. Materials and methods 
 
2.1. Microorganism and Cultivation Method 
Pseudomonas luteola (a facultative strain; [10]), possessing azoreductase activity for 
azo dye decolorization, was isolated from an activated sludge system from a dyeing 
factory in Taichung, Taiwan and used as an indicator strain to indicate decolorization 
performance of dye-bearing wastewater.  P. luteola strain was cultivated aerobically 
at 30°C with Luria-Bertani (LB; Difco) broth.  The LB broth consisted of tryptone 
(10 g L-1), yeast extract (Difco; 5 g L-1) and NaCl (10 g L-1).  To obtain synchrony in 
the division of cultures for study, a loopful of P. luteola seed taken from an isolated 
colony on a LB-streak plates was precultured in 50-mL LB broth for 24 h overnight at 
30°C, pH 7.0, 125 rpm using a water-bath shaker (SHINKWANG, SKW-12).  Then 
1% (v/v) precultured broth was inoculated into fresh LB broth for culture.  In all 
cultures, the pH was not controlled.  For biostimulation of various nutrient media, 
different percentages of LB medium were provided (e.g., 0.2xLB contained 20% LB 
medium).  However, to prevent passive diffusion of ionic species (e.g., Na+(aq) and 
Cl-(aq)) to be taken place between intracellular and extracellular compartments through 
a semipermeable cellular membrane due to osmotic pressure, sodium chloride 
concentration in various nutrient media was still remained 10 g L-1. 
 
2.2 Analytical Methods 
Measurement of dye and cell concentration: The model azo dye- C.I. Reactive Red 22 
(RR22) used for study was obtained from Sumitomo, Inc., Tokyo, Japan (refer to [2] 
for chemical structure).  This dye (in commercial powder) could be easily dissolved 
 10
was first successively washed with deionized-and-distilled water until clear solution 
(i.e., OD600 readings within the detection limit) had been achieved to remove any 
attached particles.  Moist-heat sterilization was then carried out for the matrix 
covered with alumina foil to eradicate microbiota nevertheless present in intra-particle 
pores [11].  Porites corals (ca. 760 g; specific gravity 2.60 and pH∼8.37; Fig. 1, 2) 
were also dewatered in 180°C oven until constant dry weight (±3%) was achieved in 
approximately one day.  The packing matrix was thus filled in randomly into column 
bioreactor (refer to column schematic in Fig. 2).  To guarantee complete sterilization 
prior to cell immobilization step to be reached, total recycle of 3% H2O2 (ca. 50 mL 
min-1 in total volume 10 L) was conducted for one day.  For column operation in 
ICSs, temperatures were controlled at 30.0±1.0 °C through designated coils 
heat-exchanged from a water tank under on-off controller. 
(Cell-immobilization step): After complete clean-up through total recycle of H2O2(aq), 
10 L sterile deionized-and-distilled water was continuously pumped in 50 mL min-1 
into the ICS for total washout of residual H2O2.  In addition, the sterile conditions 
were confirmed via traditional plate-count techniques.   Prior to experiments, 
precultured cells (ca. 900 mL) were then drawn into the operation system for cell 
immobilization via total recycle at ca. 60 mL min-1.  This immobilization step was 
continuously taking place for 2 weeks to ensure metabolically stable cells definitely 
fixed onto the packing materials.  To maintain cellular metabolic activity and prevent 
substrate limitation during 2-week immobilization, approximately 300 mL cell broth 
was replaced by fresh, sterile LB medium every 3 days.   
(Decolorization step): To investigate how essential substrate concentration affected 
the performance of color removal, 0.1x (10%), 0.20x (20%), 0.30x (30%), 0.40x (40%) 
and 0.50x (50 %) of LB media were used and NaCl(aq) was still kept at 10 g L-1.  
Moreover, to provide better attachment onto packed matrix for decolorization in the 
 12
stabilized, indicating that dynamic equilibria of cell immobilization were reached.  
In Phase (II), staircase ramp inputs of dyes bearing with various nutrient media were 
applied to determine threshold operation concentrations.  As seen in Fig. 3, 
significant losses of biodecolorization activity were gradually emerged when dye 
concentrations exceeded critical loadings for treatment (ca. 600, 1000, 1500, 1700 and 
2100 mg L-1 for 0.1x, 0.2x, 0.3x, 0.4x and 0.5x LB, respectively).  The reasons to 
cause such operation failures are straightforward.  When the inlet dye concentration 
was elevated, insufficient decolorization efficiency might gradually become 
significant as the energy requirements to degrade RR22 in higher levels were 
escalating rapidly.  That is, the slow decolorization rate relative to the escalating 
input loading rate led to a significant accumulation of RR22 in the ICS and a marked 
rise in residual dye concentration over time.  Comparison upon predicted staircase 
profiles and experimental elution curves (Fig. 3 and Appendix A), one may perceive 
the reasons of significant decreases in decay rate constant α over time in various 
nutrient sources as follows: due to stepwise increases in loading of inlet toxic dyes, 
there was no sufficient energy to provide cell immobilization, dye decolorization and 
cellular viability concurrently.  Thus, it inevitably led to irreversible total washout of 
immobilized cells for operation failure, as total washout is a stable steady-state in 
particular for a non-growth associated bioprocesses [2].   
 
Why threshold criteria?  
The ICS could be considered as an upflow tubular bioreactor packed with 
“biocatalytic pellets”.  In the reactor, there exist at least certain diffusion steps [12]; 
for instance, mass transfer of dyes from the bulk fluid to external surface (e.g., biofilm) 
of immobilized cell pellets.  In addition, diffusion of dyes through catalyst pores 
(e.g., small cavities as shown in Fig. 1) to the immediate vicinity of the internal 
 14
outlet stream; ca. line segment BC  in Fig. 4).  Depending upon dye synthetic 
wastewater to be administered, the intracellular “defense mechanism” (e.g., selective 
transport system on membrane, unspecific enzymatic reduction; [15]) are very often 
involved.  The maximum response occurs at a concentration (i.e., EC100) that cell 
population can no longer tolerate and death intervenes (i.e., elution curve after point C 
in Fig. 4). 
According to this phenomenon, a novel method of “graphical reconstruction” 
was proposed to determine threshold conditions of inlet dye concentration.  As 
shown in Fig. 4, a parallelogram ABCD was constructed for system analysis.  Length 
AB  or CD  in Parallelogram ABCD simply denoted the maximal decolorization 
capacity in the ICS.  Region (I) indicated that the decolorization capacity of 
immobilized cells was still greater than color removal requirement for the 
corresponding inlet dye concentration, clearly revealing stable decolorization 
performance.  Region (II) (or Line BC ; i.e., threshold conditions) indicated that 
although the maximal immobilized cell concentration was still transiently remained in 
ICSs, the augmented nutrient medium could no longer provide sufficient energy 
sources for complete color removal and thus failure operations (i.e. non-zero residual 
dye concentrations) were observed.  In contrast, region (III) implied the escalating 
loss of immobilized cells irreversibly directing to conditions of complete failure (i.e., 
output response (1) for cell-free systems).  Obviously, when dye concentration in the 
inlet stream gradually increased, immobilized cells lose cellular capability for 
attachment due to this progressively increased toxicity threatening the survival of 
whole cell population.  This significant loss of immobilized cells also gradually 
shrank decolorization efficiency to a “vanishing point” (i.e., asymptotically 
approached to output response (1) for cell-free systems).  According to Mean Value 
Theorem (Appendix B), the maximum allowable inlet concentration and treatment 
 16
the reactor.  It is noted that the integral term in plug flow reactor (PFR) model was 
simplified as an average property.  In addition, all of the averaged kinetic parameters 
shown in this ICS model simply assumed the homogeneity in behaviors of response.  
To simplify the analysis, it is assumed that decolorization rate constant k (L day-1) is a 
time-invariant constant for ICSs.  There are two critical conditions for the ideal ICSs.  
The condition for an ideal ICS that always operates successfully for all inlet dye 
concentrations at all time is ∀t∈R+ k→∞ and C=0 (i.e., sufficient supply of energy 
sources for decolorization, all nutrients in excess or zero residual dye concentration in 
Fig. 4).  In contrast, the condition for a trivial ICS that completely loses 
biodegradability is k→0 and C=C0 (i.e., no decolorization capability due to complete 
loss of cell viability; asymptotically approached to output response (1) in Fig. 4).  It 
is noted that the postulate of a “quasi-steady state” might not be viable herein due to 
the introduction of “staircase ramp input” in the inlet stream.  However, the 
time-invariant kinetic parameters used in the study provided a first-attempt to 
approximate the critical behaviors of ICS.  Parameters F/V and k/V denoted dilution 
rate D and decay rate constant α (all in day-1), respectively.  The decay constant α 
apparently represented overall characteristics of transport phenomena (e.g., 
intra-particular and extra-particular mass transfer and diffusion) in ICS. 
To clearly reveal operation sensitivity and threshold operation, the dye 
concentration in inlet stream C0(
_
t ) was applied in the form of a staircase ramp input 
as follows: 
=)(_0 tC 100(u(
_
t -1)-u(
_
t -2))+200(u(
_
t -2)-u(
_
t -3))+300(u(
_
t -3)-u(
_
t -4))+… 
…+100n×(u( _t -n)-u( _t -n-1))+…. 
 18
concentration exceeds the threshold level for toxicity (i.e., )1(100)(
_
0 −> ntC  mg 
L-1), the supplemented nutrient could not effectively maintain a considerable amount 
of attached biomass and/or could not provide an appropriate decolorization capability 
for efficient color removal.  As time went by, dye concentration would gradually 
increase due to a significant loss of attached cell for decolorization (i.e., k became 
smaller).  It apparently turned out to be operation failure (i.e., effluent dye 
concentration gradually increased to inlet concentration; k→0) for a CSTR model 
without reaction term.  Thus, one may assume the following relationships to be held: 
0
))1)(exp((
1100
1
=



−−+−+ ∑=
j
k knD
j
D
D
αα ,  ∀j=1, 2, 3,…, n-1.  (A4) 
0
))1)(exp((
1100
1
>



−−+−+ ∑=
n
k knD
n
D
D
αα .       (A5) 
With these, one may apply critical criterion to the point of failure operation 
( nStC =)(
_
, ]1 ,[ +∈∃ nnt ) to estimate the critical value of α as follows: 
n
n
k
S
knD
n
D
D ≅



−−+−+ ∑=1 ))1)(exp((
1100
αα . 1
*__ −>=∃ ntt . (A6) 
According to the evaluation algorithm shown above, one might obtain the decay 
rate constant α (day-1) = 35.41, 78.92, 91.62, 118.08 and 119.84 for 0.1x, 0.2x, 0.3x, 
0.4x and 0.5x LB, respectively (set Sn( t )≈40 mg L-1; predicted staircases shown in 
the subfigure of reactive red 22 versus time (Fig. 3)).  This model simply stated that 
richer media apparently increased decolorization capacity of Pseudomonas luteola in 
ICSs.  However, due to non-growth associated characteristics of P. luteola in 
decolorization, operation failure still cannot be prevented, resulting in gradual 
washout of azo dye into the exit stream.  Predicted staircases suggested that once 
inlet dye concentrations progressively increased, supplemented nutrient sources could 
no longer satisfy the escalating nutrient requirement for gradual increases in 
 20
line )()()()( afax
ab
afbfy +−


−
−=  joining (a, f(a)) and (b, f(b)).  Then, one may 
see that g(a)=0=g(b).  As f(x) is continuous on [a, b] it follows that g(x) is also 
continuous on [a, b].  Furthermore, as f(x) is differentiable, g(x) is also differentiable.  
By applying Rolle’s Theorem (also refer to [16] or Calculus) to the function g(x), 
there exists some number c∈ (a, b) such that g’(c)=0, which implies that 
  
ab
afbfcfcg −
−−== )()()(')('0 .                (B4) 
So, there exists a number c∈ (a, b) such that
ab
afbfcf −
−= )()()(' .  Geometrically, 
this theorem guarantees the existence of a tangent line that is parallel to the secant 
line through the points (a, f(a)) and (b, f(b)).   
One might apply this geometric interpretation of the Mean Value Theorem to the 
conceptual design of “graphical reconstruction” (Fig. 4) for system analysis.  It was 
assumed that the elution curve of ICS was continuous and differentiable with respect 
to time.  When an operation failure in ICS takes place due to inlet loadings 
apparently going over the treatment limits, the desorbed cells eluted from the packing 
matrix will irreversibly be washed out in a relatively short period of time.  That is, 
the proposed Parallelogram ABCD in Fig. 4 will converge and degenerate to a line 
segment AB  (i.e., 0lim =→ BCCB  and 0lim =→ ADDA ).  Therefore, there exists a line 
(i.e., an imaginary line PQ ; Fig. 4) secant to the elution curve at points P and Q (i.e., 
points (a, f(a)) and (b, f(b)) as seen in equation (B2)).  Note that once operation 
failure was triggered, this degeneration would take place extremely fast and 
spontaneously since total washout of biomass apparently increased the entropy and 
decreased Gibbs free-energy of ICS for stability.  According to Mean Value Theorem, 
one might of course find a point M between P and Q on the elution curve such that 
the slope of tangent line at point M equals the slope of line PQ .  Apparently, this 
tangent line at the point M is the imaginary linear relationship of output response (2).  
 22
Yang, K.-S. Lao, C.-S. Kuo, G.-T. Chen, and G.-Y. Yeh for experimental data 
analysis.  This work is also dedicated to the memory of Dolloff F. Bishop who 
passed away on July 4, 1999 when B.-Y. Chen was on duty under his mentorship in 
US EPA.   
 
References 
[1] Chen B-Y, Chen S-Y, Chang J-S. Immobilized Cell Fixed-Bed Bioreactor for 
Wastewater Decolorization. Process Biochem 2005; 40: 3434-3440.  
[2] Chen B-Y. Understanding decolorization characteristics of reactive azo dyes by 
Pseudomonas luteola: toxicity and kinetics. Process Biochem. 2002; 38(3): 
437-446. 
[3] Chang J-S, Chou C, Chen S-Y Decolorization of azo dyes with immobilized 
Pseudomonas luteola. Process Biochem 2001; 36: 757-763. 
[4] Yang PY and Wang ML. Chapter 3 Entrapment of microbial cells for wastewater 
treatment. Pp. 45-77. In: Wastewater Treatment by Immobilized Cells. (Ed. R.D. 
Tyagi and K. Vembu) CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL (1990). 
[5] Shen C-C, Lee T, Chen C-Y, Wang C-H, Dai C-F, Li L-A. The calibration of 
D[Sr/Ca] versus sea surface temperature relationship for Porites corals. 
Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 1996; 60(20):3849-3858.  
[6] Chibata I, Tosa T and Sato T. Immobilized aspartase containing microbial cells- 
preparation and enzymic properties. Appl. Microbiol. 1974; 27: 886. 
[7] Bhamidimarri S.M.R. Chapter 2 Adsorption and Attachment of Microorganisms 
to Solid Supports.  Pp. 29-43. In: Wastewater Treatment by Immobilized Cells. 
(Ed. R.D. Tyagi and K. Vembu) CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL (1990). 
[8] Chen B-Y, Utgikar VP, Harmon SM, Tabak HH, Bishop DF, Govind R (2000) 
Studies on Biosorption of Zinc(II) and Copper(II) on Desulfovibrio 
desulfuricans. International Biodeterioration & Biodegradation 2000; 46(1): 
11-18. 
 24
Caption for Figures and Table 
Fig. 1 Scanning electron micrograph of Porites coral (2000X). 
Fig. 2 Experimental set up and column sizing of immobilized cell system.  
Photograph showed the decolorization performance of immobilized cell 
system attached with Pseudomonas luteola onto Porites coral (cooling/heating 
coils for temperature control were not included).  
Fig. 3 Time courses of cell (OD600) and dye (Reactive red 22) concentrations in 
immobilized cell system using various nutrient sources.  Predicted staircases 
in the profiles of Reactive red 22 vs. Time were obtained through the model in 
Appendix A. 
Fig. 4 Conceptual design of “graphical reconstruction” to determine threshold 
conditions of inlet dye concentrations for biodecolorization.  Staircase ramp 
input denoted the variation of the inlet dye concentration introduced from the 
bottom of upflow ICS over time.  Elution curve was shown as circular data 
points in series.  Output response (1) and (2) represented theoretical profiles 
of outlet dye concentration in the immobilized-cell absent systems (i.e., 
complete loss of cells as control), and theoretical residual dye concentration 
(i.e., BC ) under the maximal immobilized cells of ICS, respectively. 
Fig. 5 Threshold treatment capacities of immobilized cell cultures using various 
nutrient sources (0.1x∼0.5x LB) determined by the method of a constant-slope 
isolcine family (i.e., 
6
25≅
dt
dDC mg L-1 h-1; Figure reconstructed from Fig. 3 
with isocline prediction).  Output response (1) and staircase input denoted 
the theoretical elution curve in cell-free column and approximated profile of 
inlet concentration, respectively.  Lines L0.1x∼L0.5x denoted a family of 
isoclines with a constant slope. 
Table 1 Maximum allowable inlet concentration and treatment capacity predicted 
from the isoclines of ICSs at cultures fed with different nutrient sources. 
 26
 
 
320
mm
330
mm
130mm
54mm
3
mm
?6mm
Reactor
volume
755.44ml
45
mm
 
Fig. 2 Experimental set up and column sizing of immobilized cell system.  
Photograph showed the decolorization performance of immobilized cell system 
attached with Pseudomonas luteola onto Porites coral (cooling/heating coils for 
temperature control were not included).  
 
 
 
 28
 
Time [days]
0 10 20 30 40 50
D
ye
 c
on
ce
nt
ra
tio
n 
[m
g/
L
]
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Sta
irc
ase
 in
pu
t
Ou
tpu
t re
sp
on
se 
(1)
Ou
tpu
t re
sp
on
se 
(2)
A
B
D
C
L
Time [days]0 10 20 30 40 50
%
 a
bs
or
be
d 
bi
om
as
s
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
(I) (II) (III)
τd
P
Q
M
 
Fig. 4 Conceptual design of “graphical reconstruction” to determine threshold 
conditions of inlet dye concentrations for biodecolorization.  Staircase ramp input 
denoted the variation of the inlet dye concentration introduced from the bottom of 
upflow ICS over time.  Elution curve was shown as circular data points in series.  
Output response (1) and (2) represented theoretical profiles of outlet dye 
concentration in the immobilized-cell absent systems (i.e., complete loss of cells as 
control), and theoretical residual dye concentration (i.e., BC ) under the maximal 
immobilized cells of ICS, respectively.
