ers, as shown in Fig. 1. The mean first passage time, T, is
associated with escape rate through the hole and the mean
migration velocity, u, describes the long-time global trans-
port of the particle with diameter a under constant external
field E. In addition to RH and RC, it is anticipated that T and
u must be a function of the particle size a. Scaling analyses
have been used to analyze the simulation results. Our goal is
to determine how the escape rate and the migration mobility
depend on the particle size and the field strength.
II. SIMULATION METHOD
In our simulations, a colloidal particle such as protein is
simply modeled by a hard sphere with diameter a. The dy-
namics of the overdamped particle moving with the instan-
taneous velocity u is governed by the Langevin equation of
motion,
0 = FE + FD + FT, 1
where FE represents the externally applied force. It is absent
for Brownian escape and is assumed as a constant and uni-
form force field, like gravitational force, for force-driven
transport. The dissipative force acting on the particle is given
by
FD = u . 2
Here  denotes the friction coefficient and is related to the
Brownian diffusivity D by Einstein–Smoluchowski relation
 =
kBT
D
. 3
The effect of thermal fluctuations is represented by a random
force
FT = t , 4
where its mean is zero and obeys the correlation
tt = 2kBTt − t . 5
Note that in this study, the hole radius is small compared
to the cavity radius. Since the particle size is smaller than the
hole size, it is always much smaller than cavity radius. Con-
sequently, the hydrodynamic interactions between the par-
ticle and the walls are neglected. The boundary condition is
employed by rejecting a move that results in the particle
crossing the walls and increasing the time counter i.e., a
Monte-Carlo-like move.9 In addition to the excluded vol-
ume associated with a hard sphere, the effect of the particle
size is manifested by the friction coefficient, which is as-
sumed to follow the Stokes law,
 = 3a , 6
where  represents the fluid viscosity. According to Eq. 3,
the size of the particle may influence the escape rate or drift
velocity through its Brownian diffusivity, i.e., Da−1. That
is, a particle with smaller size diffuses faster than that with
larger size and such an effect is manifested in FT through Eq.
5. To demonstrate the dependence of the entropic barrier
small hole on the particle size, we assume that the exter-
nally applied force is proportional to the product of the par-
ticle size a and the uniform field E, i.e., FEaE. This as-
sumption is similar to a particle carrying charges Qa under
the electric field E. To eliminate the contribution to transport
due to spatially nonuniform electric field adjusting to the
varying geometry, however, the nonuniformity of the field is
ignored. Our assumption results in the fact that the mobility
of the particle is independent of its size in the absence of the
periodic barrier a channel with constant cross section. Ac-
cording to Eq.1, one has uE /, which is not size de-
pendent. In other words, the particle separation based on size
differences in this study is purely attributed to the entropy
barrier.
In the BD simulations, the dimensionless form of the
overdamped Langevin equations is written as11
xˆ = xˆ +  DD
*
	Fˆ E · tˆ +
2 DD
*
	tˆZ , 7
where Z denotes a Gaussian distribution with zero mean and
unit variance. The position x, time t, and force FE are scaled
by a
*
, a
*
2 /D
*
, and kBT /a*, respectively. Here D* denotes
diffusivity of the particle with diameter a
*
. Note that the
diffusivity ratio is simply Da /D
*
=a
*
/a. Typically, the in-
tegration time step is tˆ=2.510−4. For Brownian escape
FE=0, the simulations were performed for at least 5000 tra-
jectories with particles uniformly distributed in the cavity at
t=0. The trajectory was terminated as soon as the particle
escapes from the cavity through the window for the first
time. The first passage time T was recorded and the escape
rate was then determined by the mean first passage time, k
= T−1. As to the force-driven transport, measurements of the
mean drift velocity u are taken after translation at least
5000 periods under various constant forces. The average
x-direction trajectory per cavity unit is almost linear with
time and the mean drift velocity is calculated from the slope.
The particle size varies from a /RH=0.2 to 1.8 and the cavity
radius changes from RC /RH=8 to 20.
III. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
As mentioned in our Introduction, analytical results can
be obtained but only for Brownian escape of a point-sized
particle10 or translocation of a point-sized particle through a
slowly varying periodic channel1 because of its quasi-one-
dimensional structure. However, in this study, neither the
tube radius spherical cavity is slow varying nor the particle
size is small compared to the hole radius. As a result, we deal
with a three-dimensional problem. In addition to influencing
Brownian diffusivity, increasing particle size results in a sig-
nificant hindrance on the escape rate or mobility due to the
FIG. 1. Color online Schematic of the periodical entropic traps, which are
made of spherical cavities with radius RC and small hole with radius RH.
184901-2 Cheng, Sheng, and Tsao J. Chem. Phys. 129, 184901 2008
Downloaded 08 Dec 2008 to 140.112.2.121. Redistribution subject to AIP license or copyright; see http://jcp.aip.org/jcp/copyright.jsp
and a. Figure 4 shows that all data points fall into a single
curve obtained from Eq. 12 and demonstrates unambigu-
ously the exit effect associated with the entropic barrier for
Brownian escape.
The survival probability of a Brownian particle escaping
from a cavity through a small window has been studied for a
two-dimensional region bounded by four reflecting disks2
and for three-dimensional spherical and cubic cavities.10 It
has been proven that when the hole is small, the kinetics of a
point particle escape is dominated by an entropic barrier and
the survival probability decays as a single exponential based
on the spectral representation, i.e., an infinite sum of
exponentials.10 When the hole is small enough, all pre-
exponential factors are small except that the first one is unity
with a correction due to the hole with absorbing boundary
condition. The disturbance to the ground state associated
with the cavity without a hole is approximately
ORH /RC3, which tends to zero as RH /RC1. Because of
the finite size of a particle, an additional correction of
Oa /RC3 may arise. Since a	2RH, the second correction
is small as well and, therefore, it is anticipated that the sur-
vival probability of a finite-size particle is exponentially de-
caying. Figure 5 illustrates the survival probabilities for vari-
ous particle sizes at RH=1 and RC=10. All probabilities can
be well represented by a single exponential, Pt
=exp−t / T / T. The slope denotes the escape rate k,
which declines with increasing particle size. The longer life
associated with a larger particle is attributed to the exit hin-
drance in addition to smaller Brownian diffusivity.
B. Force-driven transport
Under the influence of a constant and uniform force
field, the motion of a Brownian particle is biased toward the
periodicity direction. The mean drift velocity u is then a
function of cavity radius RC, small hole radius RH, particle
diameter a, particle diffusivity D, external force FE, and ther-
mal energy kBT. Again, according to the dimensional analy-
sis, there may exist four dimensionless groups, e.g.,
u / D /RC, a /RH, RH /RC, and FERC /kBT. That is,
FIG. 3. Color online The mean first passage time is plotted against the size
ratio of particle to hole, a /RH, at a given cavity radius RC=10. All data
points collapse into a simple curve, which can be well represented by
Eq. 12.
FIG. 4. Color online T /RC
3 is plotted against a /RH for different values of
RC, RH, and a. All data points can be well depicted by the expression,
Eq. 12.
FIG. 5. Color online The survival probabilities for particles with different
sizes in the cavity at RH=1 and RC=10. All probabilities can be well repre-
sented by a single exponential, Pt=exp−t / T / T.
184901-4 Cheng, Sheng, and Tsao J. Chem. Phys. 129, 184901 2008
Downloaded 08 Dec 2008 to 140.112.2.121. Redistribution subject to AIP license or copyright; see http://jcp.aip.org/jcp/copyright.jsp
field limit, the mobility becomes field dependent and grows
with field strength E. Equation 16 indicates that a nonlinear
effect of field strength arises in the intermediate field. It
should be noted that the field-dependent mobility shift often
occurs in a medium-to-high field gel electrophoresis.12,13 The
size fractionation by gel filtration was often attributed to the
Ogston sieving mechanism.14,15 However, the Ogston model
is a near-equilibrium theory and therefore fails to explain the
nonlinear effect. When PeO1, the force-driven migration
convection becomes to play an important role. The external
force lowers the free energy barrier significantly and thus
assists the particle to escape through the hole. As a conse-
quence, T /a is a function of FE only and independent of
a. Figure 8 shows the variation in T /0a with external
force FE=aE for different particle sizes at RC=10. All data
points fall into a single curve, which can be well represented
by the expression T /0a=19 sinh4.5FE /FE. Note that
all physical parameters are scaled. In addition to the effects
of a /RH and E, the effect of RC is illustrated in Fig. 9 for
a /RH=1. In accordance with Eq. 16, uRC
2 is a function of
FERC for various cavity radii. All data points collapse into a
single curve, which can be well represented by the expres-
sion RC
2 FE=2.1 sinh0.45Pe. The above scaling analyses
of a, E, and RC confirm the validity of Eq. 16.
The force-driven mobility in periodical entropic barriers
is size dependent, and therefore such a device can be used for
separation of a mixture of particles of different sizes. Size
separation is a coupling consequence between Brownian dif-
fusion and force-driven migration. The former is stochastic
while the latter is deterministic. Their relative importance is
manifested through Peclet number. For the same field
strength E, different a correspond to different Pe, which re-
sults in different  and thus size separation. The coupling
mechanism can be demonstrated by the time distribution of
migration through one period of the cavity. Figure 10a il-
lustrates the probability distributions under various E at
a /RH=1 and RC /RH=10. In the plot of log P versus t, one
can notice the existence of long tail in comparison with the
exponential decay straight line. Moreover, as shown in the
FIG. 7. Color online The exit effect evaluated from Brownian escape, Eq.
13, is in excellent agreement with that determined from force-driven trans-
port at RC /RH=10. Note that * and ka* denote the simulation results for
a=1.0.
FIG. 8. Color online The variation in T /0a with external force FE
=aE for different particle sizes at RC=10. All data points fall into a single
curve, which can be well depicted by T /0a=19 sinh4.5FE /FE.
FIG. 9. Color online uRC2 is plotted against FERC for various cavity radii
at a /RH=1. All data points collapse into a single curve, which can be well
represented by uRC
2
=2.1 sinh0.45Pe.
184901-6 Cheng, Sheng, and Tsao J. Chem. Phys. 129, 184901 2008
Downloaded 08 Dec 2008 to 140.112.2.121. Redistribution subject to AIP license or copyright; see http://jcp.aip.org/jcp/copyright.jsp
in the presence of the exit effect RC / T times the driven
field FERC /kBT. In this limit, the relation between Brownian
escape and force-driven transport can be established by the
generalized Einstein–Smoluchowski relation. When the field
strength is high enough, PeO1, the mobility becomes
field dependent because the free energy barrier can be sig-
nificantly lowered by the applied field. The mobility deter-
mined by BD simulations for different a /RH, RC /RH, and E
can be well represented by Eq. 16 based on the difference
between the forward and backward escape rates.
Owing to the coupling between Brownian diffusion and
force-driven migration, it is shown that the drift mobility can
be field dependent and generally grows with increasing field
strength. In addition, the mobility varies with particle size
because of the exit effect. In weak fields Brownian diffusion
is dominant and the migration is controlled by the exit effect.
As a result, small particles migrate faster than larger ones.
These outcomes are qualitatively consistent with experimen-
tal observations in periodically constricted microchannel.3
Our theoretical results provide useful guidance for the design
of a microchannel device based on periodic entropic barriers
for separating a mixture of particles based on size differences
efficiently.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This research is supported by National Science Council
of Taiwan, R.O.C.
1 D. Reguera, G. Schmid, P. S. Burada, J. M. Rubf, P. Reimann, and P.
Hänggi, Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 130603 2006.
2 H.-X. Zhou and R. Zwanzig, J. Chem. Phys. 94, 6147 1991.
3 J. Fu, P. Mao, and J. Han, Appl. Phys. Lett. 87, 263902 2005.
4 M. Baba, T. Sano, N. Iguchi, K. Iida, T. Sakamoto, and H. Kawaura,
Appl. Phys. Lett. 83, 1468 2003.
5 L. R. Huang, E. C. Cox, R. H. Austin, and J. C. Sturm, Science 304, 987
2004.
6 F. Tessier, J. Labrie, and G. W. Slater, Macromolecules 35, 4791 2002.
7 M. Streek, F. Schmid, T. T. Duong, and A. Ros, J. Biotechnol. 112, 79
2004.
8 A. S. Panwar and S. Kumar, Macromolecules 39, 1279 2006.
9 K.-L. Cheng, Y.-J. Sheng, S. Jiang, and H.-K. Tsao, J. Chem. Phys. 128,
101101 2008.
10 I. V. Grigoriev, Y. A. Makhnovskii, A. M. Berezhkovskii, V. Y. Zitser-
man, J. Chem. Phys. 116, 9574 2002.
11 H.-J. Lin, Y.-J. Sheng, H.-Y. Chen, and H.-K. Tsao, J. Phys. Chem. B
111, 6493 2007.
12 J. L. Viovy, Rev. Mod. Phys. 72, 813 2000.
13 G. W. Slater, S. Guillouzic, M. G. Gauthier, J. F. Mercier, M. Kenward,
L. C. McCormick, and F. Tessier, Electrophoresis 23, 3791 2002.
14 A. G. Ogston, Trans. Faraday Soc. 54, 1754 1958.
15 D. Rodbard and A. Chrambach, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 65, 970
1970.
184901-8 Cheng, Sheng, and Tsao J. Chem. Phys. 129, 184901 2008
Downloaded 08 Dec 2008 to 140.112.2.121. Redistribution subject to AIP license or copyright; see http://jcp.aip.org/jcp/copyright.jsp
