 - 2 -
      
 
112
1 )( q
dt
dq
R λλ +−=  (1)
44222325112
2 )( qqq
dt
dq
R λλλλλ +++−= (2)
334223
3 )( qq
dt
dq
R λλλ +−=  (3)
44542334
4 )( qq
dt
dq
R λλλλ ++−=  (4)
Since the biological half life of iodine 
recommended by ICRP-30 for the stomach, 
body fluid, thyroid and whole body is 0.029d, 
0.25d, 120d and 12d, respectively. Thus, the 
corresponding decay constants for each 
variable can be calculated [cf. Tab. 1]. 
 
 
4 PATIENTS’ CHARACTERISTICS 
 
Five patients aged 37~47 years underwent 
whole body scanning by gamma camera after 
postsurgical administration of 131I for ablation 
of residual thyroid. Tab. 2 lists patients’ 
characteristics. 
5 EXPERIMENTAL SETUP 
 
5.1 Gamma Camera 
Figure 3 illustrates the gamma camera 
(SIEMENS E-CAM) located at Chung-Shan 
Medical University Hospital (CSMUH). The 
gamma camera’s two NaI 48×33×0.5cm3 plate 
detectors were positioned 5cm above and 6cm 
below the patient’s body during scanning. Each 
plate was connected to 2”-diameter 59 photo 
multiplier tube, PMT, for data recording. 
Ideally, the 2 detectors can capture ~ 70% of 
the emitted gamma ray. Each patient scanned 
was given 1.11GBq (30mCi) 131I capsule for 
thyroid gland remnant ablation. The 131I 
capsule was carrierfree with a radionuclide 
purity exceeding 99.9% and radiochemical 
purity exceeding 95.0%. All 
radiopharmaceutical capsules were fabricated 
by Syncor Int., Corp. The coefficient of 
variance (%CV) between capsules from the 
same fabricated batch was less than 1.0% 
confirmed by spot checks [7]. Thus, the 
position-sensitive gamma ray emitted from the 
131I dose administration for patient can, then, 
be analyzed and plotted. 
 
 - 4 -
6 RESULTS AND DATA 
INTERPRETATION 
Each patient’s data was analyzed and 
normalized as initial input data to obtain the 
optimal solution for Eqs. 1-4. Since every 
patient’s analyzed data could be derived for an 
optimal solution, the final optimized revised 
biokinetic model for iodine was based on the 
biased average for all 5 patients. The biased 
average was based on a numerical weighting 
factor defined as the inversion of the sum of 
the square of individual uncertainities as shown 
in Eq. 5, 6 [8, 9, 10]. 
 
7 DISCUSSIONS 
 
7.1 Original and Revised Biokinetic Model of 
Iodine 
 
Defining the biological half-life of iodine in 
thyroid without considering the contributions 
from other compartments of the biokinetic 
model remains controversial. The thyroid plays 
a dominant role in the biokinetic model of 
iodine for healthy people, Conversely, either 
the whole body or the body fluid are the 
dominant compartments in the revised 
biokinetic model according to the analytical 
results for (near) total thyroidectomy patients. 
Furthermore, by precisely comparing the 
original and revised iodine biokinetic models 
[cf. Fig. 2, 5], the biological half-life of iodine 
in the thyroid of a healthy person can be 
evaluated directly by the time-dependent curve, 
whereas the time-dependent curve for 
thyroidectomy patients degrades quickly as a 
result of iodine’s short biological half-life in 
the thyroid. Alternatively, withholding iodine 
from either the whole body or body fluid for 
thyroidectomy patients results in rapidly 
increasing percentage in subsequent in-vivo 
scanning. The Teff of iodine for a healthy 
person is 7.5 d and is dominated by the thyroid 
only. The effective half-life of iodine for 
thyroidectomy patients, conversely, is reduced 
to approximately 4.5 d and is controlled by the 
whole body and body fluid compartments. The 
different compartments dominating in the 
iodine biokinetic model requires the different 
analyses of dose evaluation and release criteria 
for patients from a public hygiene perspective. 
1.1GBq 131I-NaI, combined with imaging 
obtained from Siemens E-CAM coincidence 
γ-camera in CSMUH. The EDE of 
near-thyroidectomy patient was 0.560 Sv for 
the treatment of 1.1GBq 131I. These τh 
calculated from the linear-fits for the individual 
organs were highest in the intestine (2.44 hr), 
and second highest in the lung (2.10 hr) (Table 
3). 
 
 
 
8 CONCLUSION 
 
A revised biokinetic model of iodine for (near) 
total thyroidectomy patients using in-vivo 
gamma camera technology was accomplished 
in this work. A total number of 5 patients who 
underwent remnant ablation of the thyroid were 
scanned and analyzed to obtain the revised 
biokinetic model of iodine. The difference 
between the original and the revised iodine 
biokinetic model was the definition used for 
