1. Introduction 
Zinc oxide (ZnO) is an attractive II-VI compound semiconductor because of its 
unique chemical and physical properties such as wide and direct band gap (3.37 eV), 
large binding energy (60 meV), high-electrical conductivity and transparency in the 
visible region. With the scaling down of electronic devices, nanostructured ZnO materials 
have received intensive research for optoelectronic applications in the following fields:  
diode-based devices, photovoltaic cells and thin-film transistors and other nanodevices. 
For a board range of applications in electronic devices, the n-p junction with stable 
interface plays a key role in the structure and the electrical performance. In this study, we 
present a two-step CBD method to grow high-transparency and low-resistivity ZnO 
branched nanorods on the ITO substrate. The effects of growth conditions on the 
morphology and crystallinity of the ZnO were investigated in detail. The surface 
dimension of ZnO nanorods was carefully controlled by thermal treatment at a wide 
temperature range to improve the resistivity and carrier mobility. The dependence of the 
optical and electrical properties on the thermal-treatment temperatures was discussed. 
Moreover, we report the formation and I-V characteristics of the n-ZnO/p-NiO 
heterojunction electrode with a stable interface for SS-DSSCs. 
2. Experimental 
 The chemical bath deposition (CBD) process of ZnO nanorods contains two steps, 
i.e. seeding process and CBD growth. All the aqueous solutions were prepared using 
distilled water. First ITO substrates were dipped in 500 ml aqueous solution containing 
0.05 M zinc acetate mixed with Hexamethylenetetramine for 5 sec. All substrates were 
repeated twice for the above process, and then dried in an oven at 100 °C for 10 min to 
grow a ZnO seed layer with thickness of about 200 nm. In the following, the seeded 
substrates were then immersed into the same zinc acetate solution with pH value of ~ 7.5. 
The reaction temperature was kept at 95 °C for 1 hour. After CBD growth, all samples 
up to 400 °C (with L/D ratio of 3.08). Optical transmittance spectra of various ZnO 
nanorods received different thermal temperatures are presented in Fig. 3. For thermal 
treatment at 400 °C, the ZnO shows a very high UV transparency (> 90%) in the visible 
range. For our ZnO nanorods, Hall mobility increases from 200 to 400 °C, reaches the 
maximum (μ = 40.4 cm2/V-sec) at the temperature of 400 °C and then decreases (Fig. 4). 
Also, the resistivity of CBD ZnO nanorods is slightly increased from 7.7x10-4 Ω-cm to 
3.8x10-3 Ω-cm. The typical I-V characteristics of the ZnO/NiO heterojunction are shown 
in Fig. 5. The I-V characteristics of n-ZnO/p-NiO and n-TiO2/p-NiO heterojunction 
electrodes are measured in the dark, where the n-type TiO2 and p-type NiO with thickness 
of ~200 nm was prepared by sol-gel process. Both n-ZnO/p-NiO and n-TiO2/p-NiO 
heterojunctions exhibited typical rectifying I-V characteristics; n-ZnO/p-NiO has a 
turn-on voltage of ~1.2V and the rectifying current is 2.35 mA measured at 4 V. The 
rectification slope of ZnO/NiO heterojunction is 1.25 mA/V. This is due to the fact that a 
p/n interface was formed in the ZnO/NiO heterojunction with low lattice mismatch, 
which facilitates electron transport through the interface. 
4. Conclusion 
 We have synthesized highly transparent and low-resistivity ZnO nanorods on ITO 
substrates by two-step CBD method at low temperature. From the analysis of the XRD 
and SEM, the ZnO nanorods were formed with hexagonal wurtzite structure. The 
nanorods were observed in the range of 380-450 nm in diameter and 0.98-1.32 μm in 
length. The average transmittance is higher than 90% for ZnO thermal-treated at 400 °C. 
The fabricated ZnO nanorods exhibit low resistivity of the order of 10-3 Ω-cm, high 
mobility (35.2-40.4 cm2/V-sec) and high carrier concentration (4.4-21.4x1019 cm-3). It is 
concluded that thermal treatment of 400 °C is optimum for ZnO branched nanorods to 
achieve great coverage, high optical transmittance and excellent electrical resistivity. 
Furthermore, the dark I-V characteristics of n-ZnO/p-NiO heterojunction electrode reveal 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2 The SEM surface micrographs of the CBD ZnO nanorods received different 
thermal-treatment temperatures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
