 2 
as those on the skin. For external tumors, liquid 
nitrogen, which can be lower to -196°C or 
-320.8°F, is applied directly to the cancer cells 
with a cotton swab or spraying device [1]. 
Recently, cryosurgery is also used as a 
treatment for tumors that occur inside the body. 
For internal tumors, liquid nitrogen or argon gas 
is circulated through a hollow instrument called 
a cryoprobe, which is placed in contact with the 
tumor. Cryoprobes are small, hollow, 
cylindrical devices where diameters are 2 to 10 
mm. A cryofluid flows through the probe’s 
interior at a controlled mass flow rate which 
induced local freezing at the uninsulated probe 
tip. The probes may be put into the tumor 
during surgery or through the skin 
(percutaneously). After cryosurgery, the frozen 
tissue thaws and is either naturally absorbed by 
the body (for internal tumors), or it dissolves 
and forms a scab (for external tumors). 
The doctor uses ultrasound (computerized 
moving pictures of the body generated by 
high-frequency sound waves) or MRI to guide 
the cryoprobe and monitor the freezing of the 
cells, thus limiting damage to nearby healthy 
tissue [2]. By using ultrasound, physicians hope 
to spare nearby healthy tissue. In ultrasound, 
sound waves are bounced off organs and other 
tissues to create a picture called a sonogram. A 
ball of ice crystals forms around the probe, 
freezing nearby cells. Sometimes more than one 
probe is used to deliver the liquid nitrogen to 
various parts of the tumor. Cryosurgery often 
involves a cycle of treatments in which the 
tumor is frozen, allowed to thaw, and then 
refrozen. The procedure continues until all 
unhealthy tissue is frozen to a temperature of 
approximately 233°K to 248°K. 
Cryosurgery is being evaluated in the 
treatment of a number of cancers, including 
prostate cancer and cancer that affects the liver 
(both primary liver cancer and cancer that has 
spread to the liver from another site). 
Cryosurgery has found several areas of 
application, including treatment of benign and 
cancerous prostate growth, liver cancer, breast 
cancer, skin cancer, kidney cancer, abnormal 
brain and cervical growth, and lung cancer [3-8]. 
Researchers also are studying its effectiveness 
as a treatment for some tumors of the bone, for 
brain and spinal tumors, and for tumors in the 
windpipe that may develop with non-small cell 
lung cancer. In addition, some researchers are 
using cryosurgery in combination with other 
cancer treatments such as radiation, surgery, and 
hormone therapy. While initial results of 
cryosurgical treatment are encouraging, 
researchers have not yet drawn any solid 
conclusions regarding its long-term 
effectiveness. 
Advantages of cryosurgery over traditional 
surgery include: 
z Shorter hospital stays, usually overnight 
z Shorter recovery time 
z Less blood loss 
z Less time is required to perform the 
surgery 
z Less pain, and subsequently, less need for 
pain medication 
z Cryosurgery is less invasive 
z The procedure can be an alternative for 
older people, and those who are too fragile 
to undergo conventional surgery for 
medical reasons 
z The technique has proven to be highly 
effective in many cases 
In numerical analysis, Y. Rabin and many 
scholars [9-14] illuminated the features of 
Cryosurgery. According to above experiences, 
the objective of this project is to investigate the 
 4 
is prescribed as a circular space which is three 
times larger than tumor. The Cryoprobe is put 
on the tissue and tumor. The conditions at the 
boundaries of the spherical calculation domain 
are defined as follows: 
KT o310=  at the surfaces of the spherical 
calculation domain 
KT o77=  at the probe tip and 1cm tip high 
Overall, the volume was discretized between 
60000 and 90000 cells (Fig. 2).  
 
 
Fig. 1. A schematic of the 3-D calculation 
geometry 
 
 
Fig. 2. The meshed model of the 3-D calculation 
geometry 
 
Due to handle complex geometry and 
equations, the finite-volume-method-based 
CFD-ACE+ solver was chosen to calculate the 
transient temperature distribution during 
cryosurgery. User subroutines written in fortran 
language was used to incorporate the source 
terms in the bioheat equation. The discretized 
form of the governing equation for a cell with 
the center P is as follow: 
∑ +=−
nb
unbnbppp SaSa φφ)(              (7) 
The solution was sought with the implicit time 
integration method at the time step of 5s, and 
the criterion of the convergence using scaled 
residual was defined as 
410−≤
−++
=ℜ ∑
∑ ∑
pelements
pp
pelements nb
ppppunbnb
a
aSSa
φ
φφφ
 
(8) 
where pa  is the center coefficient, nba  is the 
influence coefficient and Su results from the 
source terms. 
 
Results and Discussion 
In this study, the cases of different 
Cryosurgery treatments are chosen as in table 2.  
By assuming all the thermal properties from 
table 1, the finite-volume-method-based 
CFD-ACE solver was chosen to calculate the 
unsteady temperature distribution during 
cryosurgery. 
Table 2. 
Cases of different Cryosurgery treatments 
 
Figs. 3, 4 and 5 depict typical results for the 
case 1. Figures 3 and 4 show the transient 
temperature contour and distributions at 
cross-section Z = 0 m. As expected, the 
temperature distributions in tissues around the 
probe tip are much different from that of tissues 
far from the tip. After 1000 s freezing, the 
