the need for an on-chip clock multiplier for high 
speed products. Both the phase-locked loops 
(PLLs) and the delay-locked loops (DLLs) have 
been employed. In a PLL the voltage controlled 
oscillator (VCO), when combined with a divider 
in the feedback path, can run at desired multiples 
of the reference frequency. Due to the different 
configuration, DLLs are preferred for their 
unconditional stability and faster locking time 
than PLLs. Also the delay lines of DLLs 
introduce much less jitter than the oscillators 
which are necessary for PLLs. The noise injected 
into a DLL disappears at the end of the delay 
line, whereas it is recirculated in an oscillator. 
Thus, DLL provides lower jitter than that of 
PLL. 
Previous works proposed many clock 
generators based on DLL [1] [2]. A DLL-based 
local oscillator used an edge combiner for 
frequency   multiplication [3]. However, it 
requires an LC tank, which consumes a large 
chip area. Also, the frequency multiplication 
ratio is fixed once the LC-tank component values 
are chosen. A DLL-based frequency synthesizer 
employed AND-OR gates [4]. A programmable 
DLL-based frequency multiplier used latches for 
frequency multiplication. However, digital logic 
gates are sensitive to power supply noise which 
affects the peak-to-peak jitter performance. 
A novel DLL-based frequency multiplier is 
proposed in this project. The proposed DLL 
provides multi-phase signals, which feeds to the 
frequency multiplier. Then, frequency multiplier 
multiplies the frequency of input signal without a 
jitter accumulation problem. Multiplication 
factor N/2 (N=integer) of the proposed frequency 
multiplier can be chosen according to the 
number of delay cell. The multiplication factor 
can be chosen by the phase selection circuit. 
三、 研究方法及成果 
Fig. 1 shows the proposed DLL-based 
frequency multiplier. It accepts a low-frequency 
signal and outputs a desired high-frequency 
signal. A DLL consists of four major blocks: the 
phase detector (PD), the charge pump (CP), the 
loop filter (LF), and the voltage control delay 
line (VCDL). In the DLL, the reference clock 
(ref_clk) is propagated through VCDL. The 
output signal (vcdl_clk) at the end of the delay 
line is compared with ref_clk. If the delay which 
differs from the integer multiples of the clock 
periods is detected, the close loop will 
automatically correct it by changing the delay 
time of VCDL. In order to avoid the fail lock 
problem, the delay time of VCDL (TVCDL) must 
have both the minimum and the maximum 
boundaries between the period of ref_clk. VCDL 
outputs are level shifted to CMOS levels by high 
gain buffers (two cascaded taper inverters), 
which designed to drive a large capacitive load 
with minimal signal propagation time. 
VCDL generates n signal phases. The output 
clock frequency can be expressed as multiplier 
2
NFF refout ×= ,                 (1) 
where Fref is the input reference clock and Fout is 
the output clock. N is even number integer and 
N≧2. Multiple-by-4 frequency is depicted in 
Fig.2. VCDL generates eight signal phases, and 
employs a 4-stage subcircuit. Four of the eight 
phases, (clk1, clk2),(clk3, clk4),(clk5, clk6), and 
(clk7, clk8) are selected and feed to 4-stage 
subcircuit. Multiplication factor N/2 can be 
chosen according to the number of delay 
elements and the programmable phase selection 
circuit in Fig.3. To obtain a low jitter output, the 
capacitive load on the signal delay paths from 
VCDL to the buffer and frequency multiplier 
have to be balanced to maintain equal delay time 
on every signal. 
up
LFCPPFD
ref_clk
down
Clock
Icp
Vctrl
Buffer
clk1 clk2 clk3 clk12
VCDL
clko1 clko2 clko3 clko12
Frequency Multiplier
1×
 
Fig. 1 Architecture of the DLL based frequency 
Ref
Φ1
Φ2
Φ3
Φ4
Φ5
Φ6
4   Ref
Φ7
Φ8
×  
Fig. 2. Multiple-by-4 output frequency 
