 2
1. 中、英文摘要及關鍵詞(keywords) 
 
 
中文摘要 
 
多存取干擾(MAI)和符源間干擾(ISI)的問題的抑制在直接序列超寬頻(DS – UWB)系統是要
考慮的問題。多用戶檢測(MUD)技術，像消除干擾，它可以用來解決這個上述問題。大家都知道，
在系統裡最佳化多用戶檢測(OMUD)的計算複雜度和使用者的數量成指數關係。本文是應用以智
能計算技術的基礎上去解決困難的多用戶偵測問題，設計能夠消除所謂的多存取干擾，達到較
低的位元錯誤率和可以接受的計算複雜度。我們採用混合霍普菲爾德神經網路(HNN)和粒子群優
化(PSO)兩種方法的多用戶檢測，應用在直序式超寬頻系統。從模擬結果顯示我們所提供的神經
網路嵌入式粒子群優化(HNNPSO)技術不僅可以找到最佳化或接近最佳化的解決方法，且比最近
發表的文獻裡面現有的演算法獲得更好和更有彈性的結果。 
 
關鍵字：超寬頻, 粒子群優化, 霍普菲爾德神經網路, 多用戶檢測   
 
Abstract 
 
Direct-sequence code division multiple access ultra-wideband (DS-CDMA UWB) is proposed by 
Federal communication commission (FCC) as an alternate physical layer communication platform for 
Wireless sensor network (WSN). In this project, the problem of multiple access interference (MAI) 
and inter-symbol interference (ISI) suppression in DS-CDMA UWB systems would be considered.  
This project is dedicated to the application of intelligence computational techniques based on bionics 
to solve the difficult issue of multiuser detection (MUD) design capable of canceling the so-called 
MAI to reach low bit error rate with acceptable computation complexity. We apply the hybrid 
approach that employs a hopfield neural network (HNN) and particle swarm optimization (PSO) for 
the MUD problem in DS-CDMA UWB systems. The computer experiments show that the proposed 
HNN embedded PSO technique (HNNPSO) technique not only can find optimal or close-to-optimal 
solutions but also obtain both better and more robust results than the existing algorithm reported 
recently in this literature. 
 
Keyword: Ultra-wideband, Particle swarm optimization, Hopfield neural network, multiuser detection 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4
where Ek is the symbol energy of the kth user, P is the packet size,  [ ] 1kb i    is the ith data 
symbol of the kth user, and Tb is the symbol interval duration. The spreading waveform sk(t) is also 
written as 
1
,
0
1( ) ( )
cN
k k n c
n
s t c w t nT
G


                          (2) 
where 2,
1
cN
k n
n
G c

  , k=1, 2, …,K,  , 1k nc    is the nth chip of the kth user, Nc is the chip numbers, 
Tc is the chip interval duration, and ( )w t  is the chip waveform of duration Tc = Tb / Nc. 
2.2.2 Channel Model  
The UWB indoor channel model is based on the Saleh-Valenzuela (S-V) approach [16] where 
the impulse response is composed of the exponential decay clusters to model the dense multipath 
components. For the UWB indoor transmission environment, the channel impulse response of 
UWB indoor channel model is formulated as follows: 
        , , ,
1 1
( ) ( ) ( 1)
k kL L
k k l k l k l c
l l
h t t t l T    
 
                       (3) 
where Lk denotes the total number of propagation paths of the kth user, ,k l  is the channel 
coefficient of the lth path of the kth user and ,k l  is the multipath delay of the lth path of the kth 
user. In this paper, we suppose that the multipath delay ,k l  is an integral multiple of Tc. 
2.2.3 Receiver Model 
In the indoor multipath environment, the total received signal can be formulated as follows: 
1 1
( ) [ ] ( ) ( )
K P
k k k b
k i
r t E b i v t iT n t
 
                       (4) 
where ( ) ( ) ( )k k kv t s t h t  and   is linear convolution, is defined as template signal of the kth 
user, which is a convolution between the kth user’s spreading code and channel coefficient, n(t) is 
zero-mean additive white Gaussian noise. Hence, the discrete-time received signal after sampling 
(iTb) is written as follows: 
,
1 1
[ ] [ ] [ , ] [ ]
K P
k m m m k k
m j
y i E b j R j i n i
 
                    (5) 
where *, [ , ] [ ] [ ],m k m kR j i v i j v i    *[ ] [ ] [ ].k kn i n i v i    
Besides, output vector of the bank of K matched filter outputs [4] can be written as follows: 
         y RAb n                                (6) 
 6
2.3.2 Adaptive Particle Swarm Optimization (APSO) Algorithm 
The PSO optimization procedure resembles the social behavior of a swarm of bees, searching 
for the location with the most flowers in a field. It is based on a population of particles that fly in 
the solution space with velocity that is dynamically adjusted based on its own flying experience 
and that of the best among the swarm. Each potential solution in the PSO process is represented as 
a particle with a position vector and a moving velocity denoted as x          
and v, respectively. Thus for a K-dimensional optimization, the position and velocity of the ith 
particle is represented as ,1 ,2 ,( , ,..., )i i i i Nx x x x  (i.e., the output data of RAKE 
receiver ,1 ,2 ,ˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ[ , , , ]i i i i Kb b b b  ) and ,1 ,2 ,( , ,..., )i i i i Nv v v v . Every  particle of ix  keeps track of its 
position, which is uniformly spread for each of the N, dimensions in the solution space, bounded 
by min max, ,[ , ]i n i nx x  to prevent particles from flying out of the physically meaningful solution space. 
Here, n represents the nth dimension. The randomness enables the exploration of a broad 
population of possible solutions in the entire search space. At every time step, an associated value 
for each particle is evaluated according to with a function called the cost function, which is 
critically defined and configured by considering the search objective with  ix  as input.  
The position of the individual best fitness achieved by particle i has achieved so far. 
Meanwhile, that of the highest fitness which has been obtained among all the particles in the 
population so far, are called the personal best (pbset, denoted as bestix ) and the global best (gbset, 
denoted as bestx ), respectively, and both are stored to generate the new velocity of particle i. Each 
particle adjusts its velocity during the process according to its own experience and the position of 
the best of all particles to move toward the best solution. Meanwhile, a condition is also set during 
the following step, controlling the algorithm when it stops by either setting it to obtain an 
acceptable target solution or to run for a set maximum number of search iterations. If the algorithm 
does not step, after a time step, t , then the new velocity ( )iv t t   for particle i is updated by  
1 1( ) ( ) * *( ( ) ( ))
best
i i i iv t t w v t c r x t x t         
2 2* *( ( ) ( ))
best
ic r x t x t                                  (8) 
where vi(t) denotes the old velocity of the particle i at time t, r1 and r2 are two random parameters 
which are chosen uniformly within the interval [0, 1]. This equation reveals that the new velocity is 
related to the old velocity weighted by w, and is also associated with the position of the particle 
itself and of the global best one by acceleration constants c1 and c2 respectively. The parameters c1 
and c2 are set to positive constant values, and are therefore known as the cognitive and social rates, 
respectively, since they represent the weighting of the acceleration terms pulling the individual 
particle toward the personal and global best positions. The inertia weight factor w in (8) is utilized 
to manipulate the impact of the previous history of velocities on the current velocity. Population 
based optimization methods should generally encourage individuals to wander through the entire 
 8
HNNs can provide a computationally efficient multidimensional search for local optimal solution. 
In the hybrid HNN-PSO technique, initializing a population of Pi particles is chose from the 
population and is taken as the initial inputs of the HNNs. In general, the HNNs implement parallel 
with PSO operation, so that the chosen particles will evolve themselves in two different ways. Pi 
HNNs are embedded into the PSO and after hT  iterations of evolution, the output of the HNNs 
will be included in the new generation of particles. Since more particles with large fitness values 
are involved in candidate list, a few steps are needed to achieve equivalent performance comparing 
with original PSO technique. An HNNPSO-based MUD structure is shown in Fig. 1. 
 
Fig. 1 The structure of HNNPSO-based MUD for DS-UWB systems Adaptive Particle Swarm Optimization (APSO) 
Algorithm  
 
The procedures of HNNPSO-based MUD for a K-user synchronous DS-CDMA UWB system 
can be outlined as follows: 
Step1. Solution Representation: The multi-user detection can be regarded as an optimization 
problem that finds the most likely combination of binary transmitted bits OMP,ˆ pb . The 
configuration of the trial solution 1, 2, ,ˆ ˆ ˆ[ , , , ]p p K pb b b  is already an antipodal binary string of length 
K; therefore, the encoding process is unnecessary. 
Step 2. Initialization: A particle set with Pp members named the swarms population is created 
each time when the PSO is performed and used to improve solutions generated with PSO 
operations. Pp is known as the population size. A larger population size leads to a faster 
convergence rate but companying a higher computational complexity. 
Step 3. Evaluate the fitness values of all particles. Let pbest of each particle and its objective 
value equal to its current position and objective value, and gbest and its objective value equal to the 
position and objective value of the best initial particle. 
Step 4. Update the velocity and position of each particle according to Equations (7) and (8). 
 10
computational complexity of ML detector in this paper. The performance of HNNPSO detector can 
be approximated to ML detector in the low signal-to-noise ratios, and its advantage is lower 
computational complexity than ML. Finally, in contrast, the BER of the proposed HNNPSO-based 
MUD demonstrated a perfect approach similar to that of OMUD with less computational 
complexity compared with that of the several suboptimum detectors. 
Fig. 3 shows the averaged BER for a number of detectors at an SNR of 8dB as a function of 
number of users. It is clear from Fig. 2 that the conventional MF detector and the sub-optimal 
detectors provide poor performance in presence of large number of active users. However, the 
proposed detector can achieve an acceptable BER performance in spite of the increasing number of 
active users. Since the proposed detector can efficiently cancel the MAI and ISI in CM, the 
transmission capability of DS-CDMA UWB will be considerably increased.  
 
Fig. 2. The simulation of BER for DS-CDMA UWB systems that employs CD, Rake-8, DD, 
MMSE, ML and HNNPSO detectors with UWB CM when K=10. 
 12
[6] Li, Q. H., and Rusch., L. A. 2002. Multiuser detection for DS-CDMA UWB in the home 
environment.  IEEE J. Select Areas Commun. (Dec 2002),1701-1711.  
[7] Tan, T. H., Huang, Y. Fa, Lin, C. W., and Fu., R. H. 2006. Performance improvement of multiuser 
detection using a genetic algorithm in DS-CDMA UWB systems over an extreme NLOS multipath 
channel. in Proc. of IEEE SMC 2006. 3, (Taipei, Taiwan, Oct. 8-11, 2006), 1945-1950. 
[8] Chen, H. H., Guizani, Mohsen, Tsai,, C. H., Xiao, Yang, Fantacci,  Romano, and Sharif., Hamid 
2007. Pulse waveform dependent BER analysis of a DS-CDMA UWB radio under multiple access 
and multipath interference. IEEE Trans. Wire. Commun. (2007), 2338-2347. 
[9] Cheng, C. H., Wen, J. H., Chen, Y. F. and Lin. J.,Y. 2008. A robust interference cancellation 
technique for DS-UWB systems using fuzzy step size LMS algorithm. European Trans. 
Telecommun. 19, 2, (Mar. 2008), 207-217. 
[10] Cheng, C. H., Wen, G. J., and Huang., Y. F. 2009. Hopfield neural network for UWB multiuser 
detection. WSEAS Trans. Comm. 8, 7, (July 2009), 578-587. 
[11] Soujeri, E., and Bilgekul., H. 2002. Hopfield multiuser detection of asynchronous MC-CDMA 
signals in multipath fading channels. IEEE Commun. Lett. 6, 4, (April 2002), 147-149. 
[12] Lee, S. H., Hung, H. L., Huang, Y. F., and Wen, J. H. 2009. Performance analysis of PSO-Based 
parallel interference canceller for MC-CDMA communication systems. European Trans. 
Telecommun. 20, 3, (April 2009), 287 – 297. 
[13] Soo, K. K., Siu, Y. M., Chan, W. S., Yang, L., and Chen., R. S. 2007.  
Particle –swarm-optimization-based multiuser detector for CDMA communication. IEEE Trans. on 
Vehicular Technology. 56, (September 2007), 3006-3013.  
[14] Hopfield., J. J. 1982. Neural networks and physical systems with emergent collective 
computational abilities. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 79, (April 1982), 2554-2558. 
[15] Foerster, J. ed. 2003. Channel Modeling Sub-committee Report Final. IEEE 802. 15 Working 
Group for Wireless Personal Area Networks (WPANs). IEEE P802.15-02/490r1-SG3a. (Feb 2003).  
 
4. 計畫成果自評 
在今年我們建構出DS-CDMA架構的超寬頻偵檢系統，我們使用混和式的人工智慧演算法來檢測
傳輸的資料位元。在DS-CDMA系統多用戶檢測的問題，我們提出混和粒子型最佳化與霍普菲爾類神
經網路來解決。使用這種方法提供了快速收斂與較低的複雜度，由模擬結果顯示，我們所提出的
檢測方式，相較於其他次佳化的檢測方法，可以得到較佳的效能。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2
議，也能夠繼續地給予支持。 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
參加此次研討會主要帶回了 2010 IWCMC 無線通訊與行動計算國際會議的論文集。有鑑於
本人此次能出國參加該國際會議，並獲得國科會計劃之補助，實為獲益良多，在此致上最深忱的
謝意。 
五、其他 
在此附上2010 IWCMC 無線通訊與行動計算國際會議的會場照片。 
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：鄭佳炘 計畫編號：98-2221-E-150-074- 
計畫名稱：應用於超寬頻無線通訊系統抗干擾技術之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 5 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 8 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
