 1
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計劃成果報告 
下世代無線網路頻譜共享模型與機制之基礎研究-子計畫一:大型無線網路與虛擬業者協同頻
率共享機制之效能分析(3/3) 
Performance Analysis and Simulation of Coordinated Spectrum Sharing Mechanism between 
Large Scale Wireless Network and MVNOs 
計畫編號：NSC99-2219-E-002-002 
 
執行期限：99年8月1日至100年7月31日 
主持人：蔡志宏   國立臺灣大學電信工程研究所教授 
 
中文摘要 
在此計畫三年中，本團隊完成了多項重要的研究結果及實驗。例如，拍賣機制的頻譜拍賣平台、頻譜共
享技術與機制的模型與效能分析、及以微型基地台為基礎的 MVNO 模型皆完整的被建立與評估。基於上
述的完整基礎，在此計畫的第三年中本計畫更將頻譜共享技術應用於無線網路多通道合作性傳輸環境，
數值結果顯示其能成功提升整體網路的傳輸效能與品質。相信本計畫的成果如模型、分析方法、實驗結
果、人機結合模擬平台對政府及無線業者而言，可成為支持其決策的重要工具。 
 
 
Abstract 
 
In the 3-year period of this project, we have completed a set of important research results and experiments. For 
example, a spectrum auction platform for hierarchical package bidding, a spectrum sharing model with 
performance evaluation, a detailed model for femtocell-based MVNO have been already built and analyzed. 
Based on the above complete technologies, in the third subproject, we have successfully applied the spectrum 
sharing advantage to multi-channel cooperative diversity environments in wireless networks. Numerical results 
show that the proposed multi-channel cooperative transmission scheme can achieve much better transmission 
performance and quality-of-service than others schemes. We believe the outcome of this project, including its 
models, analysis approaches, results, and the human-machine hybrid simulation platform can become a set of 
valuable decision-supporting tools for both the government and the wireless industry. 
 
 3
considering the time constraint for delay-sensitive 
services. Consequently, in such a CD and spectrum 
sharing environment, their throughput formulas did 
not reflect the effective throughput (goodput) that 
must satisfy the typical delay constraints of 
streaming-type or real-time multimedia flows. 
Motivated by the above point, we therefore pay our 
attention to design a novel fast packet retransmission 
scheme to be employed in a general CD environment 
for delay-sensitive flows as a case study. 
The rest of this study is organized as follows. 
A survey of various retransmission schemes is 
included in Section 2. Next, Section 3 proposes a 
novel fast packet retransmission scheme in a general 
CD environment for delay-sensitive applications as a 
case study. Section 4 makes a summary of this study 
and suggests the future work of interest. Finally, the 
list of references is provided in the end. 
 
2. A Survey of Various 
Retransmission Schemes 
 
The traditional retransmission scheme designed 
to combat the loss of transmission data for single-
radio single-channel environments was first 
introduced by Lin et al. in [8]. Thanks to the 
advances of multi-band radio technologies, for many 
broadband wireless systems and short range 
communication networks, there may be many 
communication channels available to use. 
Consequently, it is natural to arrange the link layer 
packets to be transmitted over multiple channels to 
boost bandwidth. Issues regarding how to design and 
analyze the multi-channel transmission schemes 
have recently become an important research 
direction. A vast amount of research groups have 
thus started to pay attention to related topics. 
Individual aspects of these problems have been 
separately considered in many related papers [9-18]. 
Most literatures in this area can be conceptually 
categorized into 2 research directions; one is the 
single-radio multi-channel transmission discussed in 
[9-11], and the other direction is the multi-radio 
multi-channel transmission discussed in [12-18]. 
Meanwhile, for the single-radio single-channel cases, 
the performance results of the Automatic-Repeat-
reQuest (ARQ) retransmission schemes based on 
Markov analysis were available in [19-22], and 
optimized in both the power and the packet drop 
probability aspects respectively were recently 
studied in [23]. These studies [9-23] together 
provide a basis for the analysis and comparison of 
the multi-channel transmission. Furthermore, 
various kinds of ARQ and Hybrid ARQ schemes 
designed to be employed for CD environments were 
explored in [24-27]. The design approaches of these 
related research works are elaborated as follows. 
In [9], a protocol was proposed to enable hosts 
to utilize multiple channels by switching channels 
dynamically, and their simulation showed that the 
effective throughput was improved, especially when 
the network was highly congested. Centralized and 
distributed algorithms to perform efficient channel 
assignments in component-based approach were 
proposed and implemented in [10]. A joint multi-
channel and multi-path control protocol was 
proposed in [11], where it combined multi-channel 
link layer with multi-path routing, and simulations 
showed that the scheme can improve the throughput 
significantly. 
The uses of switchable interfaces and multi-
channel routing were proposed in [12], and 
 5
environments, the issues regarding time constraints 
for delay-sensitive flows were not addressed and 
elaborated on. Therefore, their throughput formulas 
did not reflect the effective throughput that must 
satisfy the typical delay constraints of streaming-
type or real-time multimedia flows in such an 
environment. 
Due to the aforementioned reasons, we herein 
propose a novel fast packet retransmission scheme, 
where a new approach of retransmission strategy is 
designed and appropriately combines the 
encoding/decoding mechanism presented in [18], in 
such a CD environment for delay-sensitive flows as 
a case study. In the proposed scheme, there are 2 
retransmission policies that can be employed 
adaptively according to both the channel quality and 
the Application layer Protocol Data Unit (APDU) 
size. The retransmission is designed to be allowed 
only one time. Here, APDU flows in the sender are 
further assumed to always have a link packet ready 
for transmission. As a result, it is not much 
meaningful to analyze the packet delay involving the 
queueing analysis. In this paper, we only focus on 
the complete throughput analysis to gain the main 
insight of optimizing the number of channels for 
retransmission between the 2 proposed 
retransmission policies under such the CD 
environment. All of the derived formulas are then 
verified via simulations. The effective throughput of 
our proposed scheme is shown better than that of 
other CD retransmission schemes (such as [26]) and 
non-CD retransmission schemes. 
 
3. Case Study: On the Effective 
Throughput Gain of Cooperative 
Diversity with a Fast 
Retransmission Scheme for Delay-
Sensitive Flows 
 
3.1 System Description 
 
3.1.1 Cooperative Diversity System 
 
A general CD system model composing of a 
sender, a partner, and a receiver is considered, as 
shown in Fig. 1, where two cooperative users (i.e., 
sender and partner) transmit their information to the 
same destination (i.e., receiver). It is assumed that 
each user’ device in this system only has one radio 
transceiver. Additionally, Orthogonal Frequency 
Division Multiplexing (OFDM) is employed as the 
underlying transmission technique. 
 
Figure 1: System model for two cooperative users 
(sender and partner) transmission. 
 
In the present system, channels among sender, 
partner and receiver are modeled as non-identical 
but independent Nakagami-m slow-fading channels 
corrupted by additive white Gaussian noise. The 
fading channels and the noise are assumed to be 
independent of each other. 
Generally speaking, for the transmission of flows 
of the sender, application layer flows are composed 
of APDUs. We assume that an APDU consists of s 
link packets. Each link packet will be encoded 
(described in detail in Section 3.1.3) in sequence for 
transmission. Here, APDU flows in the sender are 
 7
policies. Notice that in this model the terminology 
delay only indicates the air-transmission delay 
component for the APDU under the proposed 
retransmission principle. 
 
Figure 2: A typical example of a fast HARQ with 
policy_0. When any original link packet 
is found failed at the receiver, only the 
partner will retransmit a complementary 
link packet if a link packet is successfully 
received by the partner. Link packet i' 
means the complementary packet of link 
packet i. 
 
Figure 3: A typical example of fast HARQ with 
policy_1. When any original link packet is 
found failed in the receiver, both the 
sender and the partner will retransmit a 
complementary link packet. Link packet i' 
is the complementary packet of link packet 
i. 
 
3.1.3 Cooperative Diversity with Fast HARQ 
Scheme 
Two codes, a block code 0C  and a convolutional 
code 1C , are together used as the coding mechanism 
employed in each user (see [29], [36] for examples). 
For more detail description, 1C  is a rate-1/2 
convolutional code with constraint length c 
consisting of a c-stage shift register and two 
generator polynomials )(1 xG  and )(2 xG . This 
code 1C  is used as an inner code for error detection 
and correction. Next, the outer code 0C  is a high 
rate ))1(),1(( rcncn −−−−−  block code used for 
error detection only, where n is the length of each 
link packet that is transmitted in this scheme, and r 
is the length of parity-check bits for error detection. 
When an APDU arriving at the sender, there will 
be s new information sequences )(xIi , si ≤≤1 , 
each length ))1(( rcn −−− , generated in sequence. 
They are encoded into )(xJi  with 0C  and then 
encoded into )()()( 1 xGxJxV ii =  with 1C  in 
sequence. Each of them will be broadcasted in 
sequence only one time to the partner and the 
receiver. 
Let )(~ xVi  and )(xVi
)
 be the noisy versions of 
)(xVi  arriving at the receiver and the partner, 
respectively. For the receiver, the syndrome of 
)(~ xVi  is checked in two steps. In step_1, )(
~ xVi  is 
regarded as a noisy version of a codeword in the 
))1(,( −− cnn  shortened cyclic code generated by 
)(1 xG . In step_2, an estimate )(
~ xJ i  of )(xJi  is 
then checked in the high rate 
))1(),1(( rcncn −−−−−  block code. If the 
 9
 
3.2  Throughput Analysis 
 
Performances of the application layer throughput 
for the present scheme will be first analyzed in detail 
in this Section. It is assumed that the time axis is 
partitioned into equal size slot. In each time slot, it is 
separated into two parts. That is to say, the main part 
of a time slot is used for link packets transmissions 
and the rest of the time slot is reserved for 
ACK/NACK packets transmissions. Here, the SNR 
is assumed staying constant in a time slot. In 
addition, the M-ary, bM 2=  where b is even, the 
Quadrature Amplitude Modulation (QAM) scheme 
is assumed in the OFDM subchannels of the 
proposed model. 
 
3.2.1 Link Packet Error Probability 
 
For M-ary QAM in Nakagami-m slow-fading 
channels, the average BERs for channel-j, j=1,2,3, 
denoted as jε , can be derived by 
jjjinsjjj dp γγεγε ∫∞=
0
, )()( , j=1,2,3,              (1) 
where, in channel-j, )(, jjins γε  is the instantaneous 
BER conditional on jγ  for M-ary QAM, jγ  is the 
instantaneous SNR per bit, 0>jγ , 
)()( 1 memp mj
mm
j
m
jj
jj Γ= −− γγγ γγ  is the 
probability density function (pdf) of jγ  in 
Nakagami-m fading given in [28], 21≥m , )(⋅Γ  is 
the gamma function, and jγ  is the average SNR per 
bit. The instantaneous BER )(, jjins γε  was 
previously derived in [30], [32] as 
{ } ,3,2,1  ,),,())12((
log
1
)(
2log
1
),(
0
2
,
=+
=
∑ ∑
= =
jMztfgterfc
MM
M
z
Mzf
t
j
jjins
γ
γε
   (2) 
where 1)21(),( −−= − MMzf z , 
)22(log3 2 −= MMg , 
⎣ ⎦ ⎣ ⎦ )( 2122)1(),,( 112 1 +−−= −−− MtMztf zzMt z , 
and )(⋅erfc  is the error function. 
The average link packet error probability in a 
single transmission in channel-j, j=1,2,3, denoted as 
ejP , , can be given by 
∫∞ −−= 0 ,, )))(1(1)(( jnjjinsjjej dpP γγεγ , j=1,2,3.     (3) 
Furthermore, the average link packet error 
probability after the Viterbi decoding conditional on 
the event that both )(ˆ xVi′  and )(
~ xVi  are corrupted, 
denoted as 0,fP , can be approximately by (see eq. 
(28) in [29]) 
)1(
0, )1(1
−−−−≅ cnbf pP ,                    (4) 
 11
MRC decoding conditional on )(ˆ xVi′  and )(
~~ xVi  all 
found failed. Since mrcP  is the unconditional 
probability of a link packet error after the MRC 
decoding and the result will be correct after the 
MRC decoding as long as there is at least a link 
packet that is correct, mrcP  can be derived as 
))1(/( ,3,2
2
,1 eeemrcmrc PPPPP −=  by the definition of 
conditional probability [35]. Moreover, α  in (9) can 
be obtained via the equality 
αα −=1,1 eP ,                         (10) 
since the average number of retransmission link 
packets generated per slot should equal the average 
number of retransmission completed, after 
normalization. 
Last, but not least, for delay-sensitive flows, 
the maximum air-transmission delay of an APDU 
allowed is usually subject to a specific QoS 
requirement. In this case, based on the similar 
derivation and argument in [18], one can 
appropriately tune the key parameter, namely, s, in 
the system to achieve the highest effective 
throughput under a given delay constraint. 
 
3.3 Analytical and Simulation Results 
 
In this section, the considered CD environment 
with a sender, a partner, and a receiver remains the 
same as shown in Fig. 1. We assume that an APDU 
is composed of 5 link packets. A 16 QAM 
modulation scheme is adopted. The coding 
mechanism is referred to Section 3.1.3. Also, we set 
6=r  bytes, 9=c , and 257=n  bytes. The 
ACK/NACK packet size for ARQ related schemes is 
set equal to 25 bytes and for HARQ related schemes 
is set equal to 26 bytes. The link speed is set equal to 
10Mbps. Besides, excluding the error-correcting 
codes, the ratio of the additional header overhead 
associated with the lower layer protocols from the 
application one is set equal to 0.04. 
First, we will evaluate and compare the 
performance results among all schemes to see main 
potential insights of our proposed scheme by 
considering the ideal case that the channel between 
the sender and the partner is error-free. Next, we 
further investigate the impact on the system 
performance when there is an error probability on 
the channel between the sender and the partner. 
 
3.3.1 With an Error-Free Channel-2 
 
For the fast retransmission scheme, based on (8)-
(9), analytical results of application throughputs 
under 1ε , with 9.0,3 =eP  and 1.0,3 =eP , in the 
Nakagami-3 slow-fading environment, are depicted 
in Fig. 4 and Fig. 5, respectively. In Fig. 4, it can be 
found that if 21 104.0
−×≤ε , the optimal throughput 
can be achieved with only 1 channel for 
retransmission (via the partner); if 21 104.0
−×≥ε , 
it can be achieved by parallel retransmissions via 2 
channels (via both sender and partner). However, in 
Fig. 5, it is seen that the throughput of policy_0 is 
always better than that of policy_1. Because the 
average link packet error probability of channel-3 is 
small, the retransmission of duplicated link packet 
on channel-1 via policy_1 will waste bandwidth. 
 13
scheme still remains the best although the 
performance results for these schemes will all be 
improved. 
Furthermore, taking 31 102
−×=ε  and 
3
3 10
−=ε  as an example, effective throughput 
performances of these schemes under different 
Nakagami-m, m=1/2, 1, 3, slow-fading channels in 
the CD environment are compared, as listed in Table 
1. From Table 1, both analytical results based on (8)-
(9) and simulation results show that the optimized 
fast HARQ scheme always achieves better 
throughput performance than other schemes since 
the optimized fast HARQ scheme can adaptively 
adjust the retransmission policy according to the 
channel quality. Again in Table 1, it is found that the 
analytical results are slightly lower than the 
simulation ones for both the optimized fast HARQ 
scheme and the non-CD HARQ scheme since the 
Viterbi decoding mechanism via (5) is employed for 
them. Note that the upper bound in (5) is tight and 
can be regarded as an excellent approximation when 
the BER is lower than 210−  [36]. 
 
Table 1: Comparisons of the application layer 
throughputs (in bit/second) at 31 102
−×=ε  and 
3
3 10
−=ε  among various schemes under different 
Nakagami-m, m=1/2, 1, 3, slow-fading channels. 
 
 
3.3.2 With a Non-Error-Free Channel-2 
 
Due to the fundamental physical characteristics 
of wireless channels, there often exists an error 
probability for each transmission channel in the real-
world environment. However, in order to take the 
advantage of CD, the sender usually selects the 
neighboring partner having good channel condition 
between them. Thus, we herein set 42 10
−=ε  for 
demonstrating performance results. The throughput 
comparisons of various schemes under 1ε , with 
4
2 10
−=ε  and 33 10−=ε  in Nakagami-3 slow-
fading channels, are shown in Fig. 7. 
It is found in Fig. 7 that the performance of the 
optimized fast HARQ scheme obviously degrades 
when the BER of channel-1 is smaller than 3103 −×  
when compared with that in Fig. 6. Because there 
exists an error probability on channel-2 and policy_0 
only uses the cooperative path (i.e., channel-2 
together with channel-3) for retransmissions, the 
power of policy_0 decreases. However, the 
throughput result of the optimized fast HARQ 
scheme in Fig. 7 is also shown better than that of the 
other 2 schemes. In addition, it can be observed that 
when 31 103
−×≥ε , the performance results of the 
first 2 good schemes are almost the same as those in 
Fig. 6 due to the fact that MRC is much powerful. 
 
 15
Moreover, in the aspect of the battery saving, the 
presented scheme should save much more power 
than that of other schemes due to the one-time 
retransmission design. It is thus concluded that the 
proposed fast HARQ retransmission scheme is an 
excellent ARQ candidate for the multimedia or real-
time transport in CD environments, when the time-
constraint is imposed. 
 
4 Summaries 
 
The issues of improving fast retransmission 
schemes under CD environments can be essential to 
many delay-sensitive applications. This study has 
widely covered the conceptual description of many 
representative retransmission schemes under various 
environments and presented a novel fast packet 
retransmission scheme intended for effectively 
transporting delay-sensitive flows in a general CD 
environment. The presented retransmission scheme 
and other related works should have provided a 
sufficient collection of schemes and analysis 
methodologies for designing further wireless 
communication systems with similar requirements. 
 
5 References 
 
[1] V. Mahinthan, J. W. Mark, and X. Shen, “A 
cooperative diversity scheme based on 
quadrature signaling,” IEEE Trans. Wireless 
Commun., vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 41-45, January 
2007.  
[2] V. Mahinthan et al., “Maximizing cooperative 
diversity energy gain for wireless networks,” 
IEEE Trans. Wireless Commun., vol. 6, no. 7, 
pp. 2530-2539, July 2007. 
[3] V. Mahinthan et al., “Partner selection based 
on optimal power allocation in cooperative 
diversity systems,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., 
vol. 57, no. 1, pp. 511-520, January 2008. 
[4] J. Chen and K. Djouani, “A multi-user 
cooperative diversity for wireless local area 
networks,” Int. J. Communications, Network 
and System Sciences, vol. 3, pp. 207-283, 2008. 
[5] K. J. Ray Liu, A. K. Sadek, W. Su, and A. 
Kwasinski, Cooperative communication and 
networking, Cambridge University Press, 2009. 
[6] F. H. P. Fitzek and M. D. Katz, Cooperation in 
wireless networks: principles and applications, 
Springer, Netherlands, 2006. 
[7] W. M. Jang, “Quantifying performance of 
cooperative diversity using the sampling 
property of a delta function,” IEEE Trans. 
Wireless Commun., vol. 10, no. 7, pp. 2034-
2039, July 2011. 
[8] S. Lin, et al., “Automatic-repeat-request 
error control schemes,” IEEE Commun. 
Mag., pp. 5-16, December 1984. 
[9] J. So and N. H. Vaidya, “Multi-channel MAC 
for ad hoc networks: handling multi-channel 
hidden terminals using a single transceiver,” in 
Proc. ACM MobiHoc, pp. 222-233, Roppongi 
Hills, Tokyo, Japan, May 2004. 
[10] R. Vedantham et al., “Component based 
channel assignment in single-radio multi-
channel ad hoc networks,” in Proc. ACM 
MobiCom, pp. 378-389, Los Angeles, CA, USA, 
May 2006. 
[11] W. H. Tam and Y. C. Tseng, “Joint multi-
channel link layer and multi-path routing design 
for wireless mesh networks,” in Proc. IEEE 
INFOCOM, pp. 2081-2089, May 2007. 
 17
wireless networks: models, analysis, and 
monotonicity properties,” IEEE/ACM Trans. 
Networking, vol. 17, no. 1, pp. 225-238, 
February 2009. 
[28] M. Nakagami, “The m-distribution - a general 
formula of intensity distribution of rapid 
fading,” in Statistical Methods of Radio Wave 
Propagation, pp. 3-36, W. C. Hoffman Ed. 
Elmsford, Pergamon Press, New York, 1960. 
[29] L. R. Lugand, et al., “Parity retransmission 
hybrid ARQ using rate-½ convolutional codes 
on a nonstationary channel,” IEEE Trans. 
Commun., Vol. 37, no. 7, pp. 755-765, July 
1989. 
[30] M. S. Patterh, et al., “BER performance of 
MQAM with L-branch MRC diversity 
reception over correlated Nakagami-m fading 
channels,” International Journal of Wireless 
Communications and Mobile Computing, vol. 
3, pp. 397-406, May 2003. 
[31] D. G. Brennan, "Linear diversity combining 
techniques,” Proc. IRE, vol. 47, pp. 1075-1102, 
June 1959. 
[32] D. Yoon, K. Cho, and J. Lee, “Bit error 
probability of M-ary quadrature amplitude 
modulation,” in Proc. the IEEE VTC, Boston, 
MA, September 2000. 
[33] Y.-L. Chung and Z. Tsai, “On the effective 
throughput gain of cooperative diversity with a 
fast retransmission scheme for delay-sensitive 
flows,” IEICE Trans. Commun., vol. E94-B, 
no.12, pp.-, December 2011. 
[34] Y.-L. Chung and Z. Tsai, “Cooperative 
diversity with fast HARQ for delay-sensitive 
flows,” in Proc. IEEE 71st Veh. Technol. Conf. 
(IEEE VTC), Taipei, Taiwan, May 2010. 
[35] A. Leon-Garcia, Probability, statistics, and 
random processes for electrical engineering, 
3rd ed., Prentice Hall, 2008. 
[36] A. J. Viterbi and J. K. Omura, Principles of 
digital communication and coding, McGraw-
Hall, 1979. 
 
 2
不少，而且其中探討的技術已經由原標準中之核心協定漸漸進展到以網路架設、服務實
現及應用導向為主之研究，在議程方面，也同時涵蓋 PHY, MAC, Network, Service & 
Application 四大議程系列，也代表此會議在領域及技術議題上的平衡。 
 
二、與會心得 
在此 3 天的會議中，與同領域興趣的研究學者交流意見想法，收穫頗多，了解目
前國際學術單位及通訊相關產業之研究重點趨勢。同時也聽了一位法國教授的 tutorial，
是關於從有線網路到目前熱門無線網路下的交通流量控管議題探討，覺得此教授跟我們
所做的研究頗相似，跟他討論切磋意見想法，獲益良多。除此之外，筆者也發現下列討
論議題是十分符合國內產業實際需求，例如 SoftCOM 論壇討論題綱為： 
 
1. LTE-Advanced 網路中服務品質保障的相關商業機制、維運及技術挑戰，是否
已接近實際可行? ( Realizing QoS in LTE-Advanced Networks：Business, 
Operational, and Technical Challenges How Close are We to Reality? )  
2. 未來行動網際網路的願景與挑戰為何? ( Future of Mobile Broadband Internet 
and Challenges) 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
無 
 
四、建議 
在參加此國際會議交錯進行的議程後，我深深感到多與學術界之研究學者交流並
與產業界深入互動的必要，也算是此次行程最大的收獲。未來若有機會，台灣學術及產
業單位可多爭取國際著名研討會在台灣舉辦的機會，如此不但可提升台灣學術及產業單
位之聲望也可與國際學者做更密切的意見想法交流，相信這些都是對國家社會有所幫助
與貢獻的。 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/11/04
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫一:大型無線網路與虛擬業者協同頻率共享機制之效能分析與模擬
(3/3)
計畫主持人: 蔡志宏
計畫編號: 99-2219-E-002-002- 學門領域: 無線通訊(國家型)
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本團隊完成了多項重要的研究結果及實驗。例如，拍賣機制的頻譜拍賣平台、
頻譜共享技術與機制的模型與效能分析、及以微型基地台為基礎的 MVNO 模型皆
完整的被建立與評估。基於上述的完整基礎，在此計畫更將頻譜共享技術應用
於無線網路多通道合作性傳輸環境，數值結果顯示其能成功提升整體網路的傳
輸效能與品質。本計畫之成果如模型、分析方法、實驗結果、人機結合模擬平
台對政府及無線業者而言，可成為支持其決策的重要工具。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
