2無線感測網路中對於直線線段所組成路徑之最佳化覆蓋研究
The Optimal Coverage of Paths Composed of Line Segments in Wireless Sensor
Networks
NSC 99－2218－E－150－002－
Abstract
Wireless sensor networks provide an alternative way of improving our environments, such as
environment surveillance, traffic monitoring and other customized applications. The quality of service
provided by these applications depends on the coverage of sensor networks. Thus, how to properly measure
the coverage according to the purposes of applications becomes an important issue. In some applications, such
as highway monitoring and anti-missile interception systems, the trajectory of a target is linear. Therefore, we
need a coverage measurement method for straight-line paths. This project presents novel optimal algorithms
for coverage measurement of straight-line paths. Based on computational geometry and graph theory, we
propose plane sweep algorithms to find the optimal straight-line paths for both the best-case and worst-case
coverage problems in polynomial time. Both mathematical analysis and simulations are used to prove the
optimality of our algorithms.
摘要
近年來由於無線通訊、微機電等各項技術的快速進步，促使了無線感測網路(Wireless Sensor
Networks - WSNs)的發展與應用。無線感測網路的運用非常的廣泛，例如使用在自然環境監測、公路
車輛流量監控、工廠環境監控、農業運用、博物館重要展覽品的保全等等。在無線感測網路的應用中，
感測器節點會被散佈到其所監控的區域範圍內，而每一個感測器都有其感測的有效範圍。只有在一個
感測器的有效感測範圍內，被感測的對象或事件才能觸動感測器去偵測。對於 WSNs 而言，其覆蓋範圍
可視為此網路的服務品質指標之一，亦即對此網路 QoS 的一種衡量。因此 WSNs 覆蓋的研究對其實際應
用而言是相當重要的一個議題。本計畫將探討在 WSNs 下的網路覆蓋問題，提出一個有效的覆蓋計算方
法，本計畫將探討以下幾個主題: (1) 最佳直線支援路徑問題; (2) 最大直線縫隙路徑問題。過去的
研究當中，尚未有針對直線線段所組成路徑提出之 WSNs 覆蓋衡量，因此本研究提出新的方法，可以最
佳化地找出 WSNs 對直線線段所組成路徑所能達到的最佳覆蓋與最差覆蓋。
Keywords: Sensor network, Best-case coverage, Worst-case coverage, Straight-line path
前言
Wireless sensor networks (WSNs) are composed of a large number of tiny sensor nodes which consist of
sensing, data processing, and communicating components. With the emergence and development of
inexpensive sensor devices, sensor networks become prevalent in commercial and military applications. For
example, a surveillance sensor network in a museum may help in keeping priceless art safe from burglaries; a
similar one in a forest gives alert when the temperature rises abnormally. Different applications may have
diferent requirements for how good a network’s coverage should be. Some applications, like hazard 
monitoring, may require complete coverage since delayed or incomplete data can cause tragedies.
Consequently, how to measure and improve the coverage of a sensor network becomes an issue in practice.
4method determines when a node can be turned off or rescheduled to become active. Huang and Tseng [6]
extended the previous work proposed in [5] for area coverage and studied the problem of k-covered sensor
networks. Wan and Yi [3] considered the effect of the boundary and studied how the probability of the
k-coverage changes with the sensing radius or the number of sensors.
As for point coverage, the studies in [7] and [8] respectively considered the random and deterministic
deployment of sensors to cover a set of points. Their methods are useful in some applications where not all
points in the area need to be monitored.
The coverage considered in this project belongs to barrier coverage. The barrier coverage measures the
coverage of paths that connect a given source point and a destination point, as first defined by Meguerdichian
et al. [2]. They applied computational geometry (i.e., Voronoi diagram and Delaunay triangulation) in their
algorithms to solve the best-case and worst-case coverage problems.
Since the Voronoi diagram and Delaunay triangulation are hard to construct efficiently in a distributed
way, the proposed algorithms in [2] were centralized. Li et al. [3] focused on the best-case coverage problem.
They showed that an optimal best support path exists in the Gabriel graph and the relative neighborhood graph
[16]. Huang and Richa [10] studied the problem of maintaining the distance measurement of the best-case and
worst-case coverage of a network. Meguerdichian et al. [11] also presented an exposure-based formulation of
the coverage problem that analyzes the paths between two given end points in a sensor network. The
algorithm for finding a minimal exposure path was developed in their study as well.
研究方法
In this project, we assume that sensors are deployed inside a square area on a two-dimensional plane. All
sensors belong to an isotropic class. Furthermore, we assume that the locations of all the sensors are known
and can be found by either Global Positioning System (GPS) [12].
Without lost of generality, we assume targets travel from the left vertical border to the right vertical
border and their trajectories are horizontal lines. We assume the borders of the sensor field are parallel to x
axis or y axis. Let (Xleft, Ytop) denote the coordinates of the top-left point of the sensor field, and (Xright, Ybot)
denote the coordinates of the bottom-right point. A straight-line path is assumed to be parallel to x axis and
denoted as Py, where y specifies its vertical coordinate.
Problem Formulation
We first introduce the notations that will be used for developing the proposed solution. The sensors are
deployed in a two-dimensional field and they are represented as a set, S, of n sites. Let |xy| denote the
Euclidean distance between the two sensors nodes, x and y. We then denote the distance from a point x to a set
V of points by dist(x, V) which is the smallest distance from x to any point in V. Given two point sets U and V,
the distance between them is defined as dist(U,V) = minxU,yV |xy| and the support distance of U by V is
defined as support(U,V) = maxxU dist(x,V). Figure 1 illustrates the definition of dist(U, V) and support(U, V).
Given a straight-line path P, the support of P in a sensor network S is defined as support(P, S) which
specifies the smallest observability of the points on the path, and the breach of P is defined as breach(P,
S)=dist(P, S) which specifies the biggest obervability of the points on the path. The best support straight-line
path and maximal breach straight-line path are defined as follows:
Definition: A best support straight-line path P is a straight-line path that has the minimum support, support(P,
6Algorithm for Best-case Line Coverage
The best-case line coverage problem is to find the horizontal straight-line path whose support is minimal.
In the proposed algorithm, the sensor field is first partitioned into non-overlapped horizontal strips. The
optimal y coordinate in every strip is then computed. Before we describe the algorithm, we first introduce the
set C of cutting points that are used to partition the plane into horizontal strips. The cutting set C includes four
types of points: (1) Voronoi vertices, (2) orthogonal intersections of Voronoi edges and Delaunay edges, (3)
intersections of Voronoi edges and vertical borders, and (4) vertical projections of sites (sensor nodes) on the
vertical border segments where the site and its projection are in the same Voronoi region. The algorithm is
described as below.
Best Support Straight-line Path Algorithm (BSSPA)
1. Partition the sensor field into horizontal strips by horizontal lines incident with points
in the cutting set C. (shown in Figure 3)
2. From the bottom strip to the top strip, use Find-Strip-Best Algorithm to find the local
optimal y coordinate inside each strip.
3. Find the global optimal y coordinate from all local optimal results.
The algorithm first partitions the plane into strips. Voronoi edges and vertical borders of sensor field are cut
into segments by those strips. Suppose we are in a strip and let the segments in this strip be l1, …, lm. If there
is a horizontal path Py in this strip, the maximal value of its distance function occurs at the intersection of Py
strip
Voronoi
edge
Delaunay
edge
Figure 3. The sensor field is partitioned into strips (borders are not included for clarity).
Sensors
orthogonal
intersections of
Voronoi edges
Voronoi
Figure 2. The distance function of a horizontal straight-line path.
sensor node
Voronoi edge
x
fPy(x)
pathu0 u1 u2 u3 u4 u5
8The straight-line path found by Maximal Breach Straight-line Path Algorithm has the maximal breach among
all horizontal straight-line paths.
The result of the algorithm agrees with our intuition: as we cross a battle field, for example, and want to
stay as far away from the enemy as possible, we will look for the biggest breach in the enemy to pass through.
結果與討論
We evaluate the proposed best support line coverage algorithm by simulation and compare it with
approximation methods.
Figure 4 and Table 1 show the results of the experiments. The support value found by APX_11 must be
larger than that of APX_101 as the set of the sampling lines in APX_11 is a subset of those in APX_101. The
result in Figure 8 verifies our claim. We have proved our method OPT_LINE is an optimal algorithm
mathematically. Here, in simulation, we observed that OPT_LINE has the lowest support value comparing
with the two approximation methods in every single trial of the experiments. Such result also confirms our
mathematical analysis. The experimental result of OPT_ANY is used as a reference which finds the support of
the network from all paths. OPT_ANY must have a lower support value than OPT_LINE, but OPT_ANY can
be used only in the applications in which the target may have any possible path. Based on the experimental
results, we conclude that OPT_LINE gives a precise measure of line coverage and is useful for the
applications when line coverage is important and that APX_101 provides a reasonable estimation on line
coverage.
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
50 100 150 200 250
Number of sensors
Su
pp
or
t
APX_11
APX_101
OPT_LINE
OPT_ANY
Figure 4. The support found by the proposed algorithm OPT_LINE and other methods.
Table 1. The mean and deviation of the support in the tested methods.
50 100 150 200 250# of sensors
mean deviation mean deviation mean deviation mean deviation mean deviation
APX_11 111.54 11.23 88.12 8.60 72.67 5.52 63.17 5.35 58.42 3.85
APX_101 105.23 10.52 81.41 7.80 64.62 3.95 58.08 3.34 52.92 3.06
OPT_LINE 104.27 10.63 80.74 7.72 63.43 3.90 57.27 3.38 52.13 2.87
OPT_ANY 94.86 15.31 65.70 7.31 53.68 6.98 47.34 4.85 41.62 3.65
In this project, we present the formulations for best-case and worst-case line coverage problems in
wireless sensor networks. Optimal polynomial-time algorithms using graph theory and computational
10
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估
▓ 達成目標
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限）
□ 實驗失敗
□ 因故實驗中斷
□ 其他原因
說明： 本計劃依照計畫書提出感測器節點對直線線段感測品質之數學幾何模
式，並提出最佳化平面掃描演算法，而找出最佳解，提供無線感測網路再覆蓋測
量上一個實際可行的應用方法。
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形：
論文：□已發表 ▓未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ▓無
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ▓無
其他：（以 100 字為限）
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限）
本研究提出感測器節點對直線線段感測品質之數學幾何模式，我們把原本
是幾何上的問題轉化成一個圖學的問題，並依此設計一個有效率的最佳化覆
蓋衡量演算法。對於最佳直線支援路徑及最大直線縫隙路徑問題，本計畫提
出有效率的最佳化平面掃描演算法，找出最佳解。
本計劃所提出之演算法提供無線感測網路在測量覆蓋實的一個實際可行
之方法，並可擴展應用到其他領域，諸如無線網路，設施佈置等問題上。
附件
21. A Multi-Objective Hybrid Genetic Algorithm for Solving Invoice Printing
Scheduling Problem, Zhili Zhou, Yan Zhang
本篇論文討論使用 GA 演算法來解決在列印收據時的排程問題，作者所使用的記分方
式針對這個問題的多個目標作了修正，針對其多目標的要求，作者的方法可獲得良
好的結果。
2. An Optimal Natural-Gas Network Using Minimum Spanning Tree, Iraj Mahdavi,
Amir Mohajeri, Mohsen Arabmaghsudi, M.H. Yahyanejad, Farzin Taghipourian,
Nezam Mahdavi-Amiri
在這篇論文中，作者將瓦斯配送網路的問題，轉換成最小擴張樹的問題，藉由最小
擴張樹可以計算出所需網路最小管線總長度，因此可以節省線路成本，並使線路維
修更為容易。
到了下午四點 10 分，筆者至報告場次報到，session chair 是 Dr. Mehdi Toloo，
同場次也遇到同樣式來自台灣的報告隊伍，報告完之後筆者與其他學者進行討論及
交流，針對論文有疑問的地方，一一回答提問者，會後大家交換的聯絡方式，希望
下次能有機會在進行交流。
二、與會心得
這次的會議規模不小，來自世界各地的學者聚在一堂，討論電腦及工業工程的相關
問題，新的研究議題和成果在這次的會議上進行了充分的交流，筆者在這次的會議
中也認識了許多領域的專家學者，其中有進行排程研究的學者，也有研究演化式演
算法的學者，筆者一一向這些學者進行討教，獲得的很大的收穫。
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
