 2
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期：95 年 11 月 10 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：快速原型之多種材質成型方法及其嵌入式製程研發 
計畫主持人：邱雲堯 
計畫編號：NSC 94－2212－E－161－001－  學門領域：自動化 
技術/創作名稱 一種直接製做包覆嵌入件的製造方法 
發明人/創作人 邱雲堯、廖運炫、李心智 
中文： 
本研究提出最近發展的薄片成型法製程的廢料撥除製程，提出全新
的方法製作工件。藉由 LOM 的先堆疊再加工的原理，巧妙運用黏
膠在上的背膠材料，發展出一系列的加工程序：進料、堆疊、移除
廢料、切割、黏膠失效等程序。本研究所提出的黏膠失效程序及廢
料撥除方式，及其所衍生的演算法，具有創新性。經實驗證明製作
效率與能力均符合產業應用需求。因此，非常具有產業應用潛力。
 
技術說明 
英文： 
The paper introduces recently developed waste removal automatic 
fabrication for the laminated object manufacturing (LOM) 
process.  The LOM process is based on the stack-then-cut method and 
uses sheet material with adhesive material applied to the top layer 
protected by shielding paper.  The newly developed process includes: 
feed, stack, remove the waste, cut and burn-out.  The proposed laser 
path planning of the burn-out step improves working efficiency and 
alleviates the effort involved in post processing, and its associated 
algorithm to build up the supporting structure is well 
developed.  Experimental verification confirms that machining 
efficiency is improved and building of complicated parts is facilitated.
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
自動化產業、機械工業 
 
可開發複合式快速原型機 
技術特點 
勿需使用模具，即可製做包覆嵌入件的製造方法。可廣泛應用於金
屬工業、塑膠工業、機械業 
附件二 
 4
快速原型之多種材質成型方法及其嵌入式製程研發 
Study on Automatic Waste Removal in the Laminated Object Manufacturing 
Process 
 
Y. Y. Chiu*, Y. S. Liao+, H. C. Li++, J. H. Chang** and M. J. Chen** 
Department of Industrial and Commercial Design, Oriental Institute of Technology,  
58, Sec. 2, Syh-Chuan Rd., Baan-Chyan, 220, Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
E-mail: petecyy@ms19.hinet.net 
 
摘  要 
本研究提出最近發展的薄片成型法製程的廢料撥除製程，提出全新的方法製作工件。藉由
LOM 的先堆疊再加工的原理，巧妙運用黏膠在上的背膠材料，發展出一系列的加工程序：
進料、堆疊、移除廢料、切割、黏膠失效等程序。本研究所提出的黏膠失效程序及廢料撥
除方式，及其所衍生的演算法，具有創新性。經實驗證明製作效率與能力均符合產業應用
需求。因此，非常具有產業應用潛力。 
 
Abstract 
 
The paper introduces recently developed waste removal automatic fabrication for the laminated 
object manufacturing (LOM) process.  The LOM process is based on the stack-then-cut method 
and uses sheet material with adhesive material applied to the top layer protected by shielding 
paper.  The newly developed process includes: feed, stack, remove the waste, cut and 
burn-out.  The proposed laser path planning of the burn-out step improves working efficiency 
and alleviates the effort involved in post processing, and its associated algorithm to build up the 
supporting structure is well developed.  Experimental verification confirms that machining 
efficiency is improved and building of complicated parts is facilitated. 
 
Keywords: laser path planning, waste removal process, algorithm, LOM 
*Associate Professor, Department of Industrial and Commercial Design, Oriental Institute of Technology, 58, Sec. 2, 
Syh-Chuan Rd., Baan-Chyan, 220, Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C. Fax: +886 2 29544672, E-mail: 
petecyy@ms19.hinet.net  
+Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 106, Taiwan, Fax: +886 2 
23631755, E-mail: liaoys@ccms.ntu.edu.tw 
++Ph.D. student, Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 
**Graduate student, Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 
1. 前言 
在快速成型技術迅速發展的今日，薄片積層法(Laminated Object Manufacturing, LOM)
其最大的優勢在於製程材料較便宜且能快速獲得大型工件，若能保留其優點，且改善其後
處理困難和費時費力的問題，將使薄片積層法的快速原型系統具有更大的競爭能力。而本
 6
（Bridge-supporting algorithm），發展出一”線上撥料製程”（Online de-cubing process），以其
能夠達到線上撥除大部分之廢料，進而解決 LOM 製程的幾何形狀限制和減少後處理的時
間。其主要研究方法要點為： 
z 先黏後切（bond-then-cut）方式解決定位問題。 
z 提出一線上撥料製程可再向撥除廢料且有效減少後處理的費時、費力。 
z 研究發展一輔助支撐演算法，解決各部份因線上撥抖而產生的支撐問題。 
z 配合本實驗室所所發明之 LOM 新式製程專利，製作價格合宜且實用之新型薄片
積層快速原型機。 
 
3.1 本計畫的線上撥料製程 
原 LOM 製程之方法能使廢料形成”自然支撐”，過程中不需再對工件做額外的支撐，
但除此優點外，卻造成了額外很多的限制與缺點。線上撥料製程乃是針對傳統 LOM 使用
自然支撐的方法而提出的改良製程，以解決此限制與缺點。 
線上撥料製程各硬體機構系統 
    快速原型機應體系統架構包括：送/收料單元、廢料回收單元、加壓單元、切割單元、
黏膠失效單元、床台結構等六大次系統。 
z 送/收料單元： 
       送/收料單元為輸送雹薄片材料及定位裝置之機構裝置，為能因應易取得外界現有
薄片材料，初步的將以捲取薄片材料方式來設計此送料及收料裝置。此裝置除以一組直流
步進馬達驅動收料滾輪進而驅動送料滾輪等相關機構裝置外，也將於送紙處設定一組張力
感測裝置使材料在輸送過程中能以最經濟的方式計算紙料進給量與得到最適的紙材張力控
制。 
z 加壓單元： 
       加壓單元係藉由外力，使該新加層之材料得以與其下層之片材能更有效黏著，故本
單元可設計一組 AC 直流馬達驅動傳動機構使得滾筒前進，並與工作台之起始點與終點處
各裝置一組極限開關，以控制滾筒之往返行程。壓合方式使其與下層片材緊密疊合。 
z 切割單元： 
       切割單元乃採用雷射方式作為切割裝置。為使切割裝置能有效將經程式化處理之電
腦繪製圖形作有效切割，故於本單元裝置雷射系統已精密的工作平台驅動，配合伺服驅動
裝置，只要透過簡易的控制軟體即可精確達到所需功效。而雷射功率為 25 瓦的 CO2 雷射
以能切割熔點較高的片狀材料如紙張。 
z 黏膠失效單元： 
       此單元設置一噴墨裝置，將片狀材料中不要之區域部份，係以噴塗薄層墨水使得該
區域黏膠，俾使餘料易於撥除。此裝置可與切割單元的雷射系統之驅動平台共用之。 
z 床台結構部份： 
       本計畫開發新形薄片成形快速原型機設定可製作中大型工件，工件尺寸大小約為：
長 380*寬 400*高 250 ㎜。為能強化工件床台之強度與精度將設計導螺桿及伺服機構以驅動
床台的上升或下降動作。且將於壓滾筒與工件接觸面之固定高度上。對於主機之外觀尺寸
也力求小型化、美觀化，以使此機器能至於一般辦公室內，做一辦公室化的機型。 
 
 
 8
 
參考文獻： 
1. Y.S. Liao, Y.Y. Chiu, “An Adaptive Crosshatch Approach for Laminated Object Manufacturing (LOM) 
Process”, International Journal of Production Research, Vol. 39, No. 15, pp. 3479-3490, October 2001.  . 
2. Y. S. Liao, Y.Y. Chiu, “A New Slicing Procedures for Rapid Prototyping Systems”, International Journal 
of Advanced Manufacturing Technology, Vol. 18, pp. 579-585, 2000. 
3. Y.Y. Chiu, Y. S. Liao, “Laser Path Planning of Burn-out Zone for Laminated Object Manufacturing 
(LOM) to Improve the Efficiency of Waste Removal Process”, Rapid Prototyping Journal, Vol. 9, No. 4, pp. 
201-211, 2003. 
4. Y.Y. Chiu, Y. S. Liao, “Slicing Strategies to Obtain Accuracy of Feature Relation in Rapidly Prototyped 
Parts”, International Journal of Machine Tools & Manufacture, Vol. 44, Issues 7-8, June 2004, pp. 797-806. 
5. D. Klosterman, B. Priore and R. Chartoff, “Laminated Object Manufacturing of Polymer Matrix 
Composites”, The 7th International Conference on Rapid Prototyping, University of Dayton and Stanford 
University, San Francisco, CA, pp.283-292, March 31- April 3,1997. 
6. Yongnian Yan and Xiong Zhuo, “Layered manufacturing of tissue engineering scaffolds via multi-nozzle 
deposition”, Materials Letters, Vo.57, No.18, May, pp.2623-2628, 2003. 
 
 
 10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C. 送紙、撥料機構 
 
編號 名稱 材料/規格 數量 備註 
C-1 馬達 AC 110V 1  
C-2 惰輪 6002 1  
C-3 軸 SS41 2  
5
3
1
2
 12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E. 雷射切割平台 
 
編號 名稱 材料/規格 數量 備註 
E-1 雷射產生器 25W CO2 1  
E-2 X 軸 6061 T6 1 硬膜陽極處理 
E-3 Y 軸 6061 T6 2 硬膜陽極處理 
E-4 馬達 DC Servo 2  
E-5 皮帶 630XL 4  
E-6 傳動軸 SS41 1  
E-7 雷射切割器  1  
E-8 聚焦透鏡 4 吋焦距 1  
 
3
4
2
5
1
赴國外研究心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 94－2212－E－161－001－ 
計畫名稱 快速原型之多種材質成型方法及其嵌入式製程研發 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
邱雲堯 
亞東技術學院工商業設計系 
出國時間地點 95.8.14-16 美國德州奧斯汀 
國外研究機構 美國德州大學奧斯汀分校(UT Austin) 
 
工作記要： 
5.8.12    前往美國德州奧斯汀 
5.8.14-16 美國德州大學奧斯汀分校(UT Austin)並發表論文 
5.8.17    返回台北 
 
2Not long before this plan, the following LOM-related research results were acquired:
● Study of layering method after the new fixed layer
● Study of theoretical waste removal model
● Study of adaptive cross cutting method
● Study of the application of burn-out rules on waste removal efficiency
● Study of the application of compression-thermal separation device on LOM
The above research results not only have improved the precision and strength of the finished
products of the original LOM machine, but also have effectively shortened the processing time,
resulting in a higher efficiency of the LOM fabrication process. Meanwhile, these studies have
also accumulated years’experience and applied for several rapid prototyping patents of the related
technology. These patents include:
● patent: “The Apparatus and Method of Laminated Object Manufacturing Process”;
Taiwan Paten No. 133412; Period of patent: 2001 ~ 2019; Patent owners: Y.S. Liao and
Y.Y. Chiu.
● patent: “The Apparatus and Method of Binder on Top Layer of Sheet for Laminated
Object Manufacturing Process”; Taiwan Paten No. 133559; Period of patent: Jun. 4, 2001
~ Feb. 2, 2100; Patent owners: Y.S. Liao and Y.Y. Chiu.
● patent: “The Apparatus and Method of Selective Automatic Waste Materials Removal 
Procedures for Laminated Object Manufacturing Process”; Taiwan Patent No. 146465;
Period of patent: Nov. 21, 2001 ~ Sep. 18, 2100; Patent owners: Y.S. Liao and Y.Y. Chiu.
● patent: “Bridged Laminated Object Manufacturing Process”; Application No.: Period of
patent: 89119256; Patent owners: Y.S. Liao and Y.Y. Chiu.
Therefore, being a “new rapid prototyping system”as mentioned above, the complete
machine of LOM can be divided into 2 parts: hardware system and software system. The
hardware system includes 6 major sub-systems: feeding/collection unit, waste recycle unit,
pressurizing unit, cutting unit, burn-out unit, and bed structure. The software system is divided
4de-cubing process”is developed to make it possible to remove a majority of the waste, and further
eliminate the geometric shape’s restriction in the LOM process and decrease the post-treatment time.
The main research methods are as follows:
● The bond-then-cut way can solve the positioning problem.
● An online decubing process is developed to effectively remove the waste and decrease the
time and efforts spent on post-treatment.
● The study develops a bridge-supporting algorithm to solve the supporting problem caused
by the online decubing of different parts.
● Aligning with the patent of the new LOM process invented by this laboratory, a low-price
and practical LOM rapid prototyping machine is manufactured.
3.1 Online Decubing Process Developed by the Plan
The original LOM process can form a “natural support”of waste. The process needs no
additional support to the workpiece. However, except this advantage, the process additionally
creates a lot of restrictions and disadvantages. In order to solve these restrictions and
disadvantages, the online decubing process is an improved process focusing on the use of natural
supporting method of the traditional LOM.
The structure of the rapid prototyping mechanical system should include 6 systems:
feeding/collection unit, waste recycle unit, pressurizing unit, cutting unit, burn-out unit, and bed
structure, as shown in figure 1-6.
● Feeding/collection unit:
The feeding/collection unit is a mechanical device for conveying the hail sheets and
positioning devices in order to acquire the sheet materials currently found outside. The
preliminary design of the feeding and collection device adopts a rolling way of sheet materials.
This device not only employs the related mechanical devices of a set of direct-current step-by-step
motor-driven collection rolls to drive the feeding rolls, but also establishing a set of tension sensing
device at the paper feeding place. By doing so, the paper feeding volume in the material feeding
64. Experimental Results and Discussion
1. Establishment of a new LOM process to develop the complicated mechanisms for MMLM
fabrication: Its purpose can be elucidated in two aspects. If the prototypes manufactured by
the MMLM fabrication are mainly for the purpose of models, when complicated mechanisms
are embedded between the sheets in the rapid fabrication process of a model, and carry out
online measurement and control of the such statuses as force, temperature, and so on, then the
model will possess higher intelligence. If the prototypes manufactured by the LOM process
are products, the embedding of complicated mechanisms can make the products possess more
functions, without the need of the subsequent secondary embedded processing.
2. Focusing on the few problems to be possibly encountered while embedding the complicated
mechanism by using the MMLM fabrication, as well as the core problems appeared in this
study, the study overcomes these problems one by one, such as the precision problem of cutting
shadowing which may affect the processing, and the interference problem caused when the
height of a complicated mechanism is greater than the thickness of the sheet material formed by
LOM.
3. Study the effects caused by the verification of the bridge construction rule 1 after embedding
the complicated mechanisms –solve the positioning problem; bridge construction rule 2 –
solve the support problem.
8No item Specification qty note
1 Motor DC 24V 1
2 Platform S45C 1
3 Screw S50C 1
4 slider SKD11 2
Figure 2. Diagram of platform
1
4
3
2
10
No. Item Specification qty note
1 Motor AC 110V 1
2 Idle wheel 6002 1
3 Shaft SS41 2
4 Belt 630XL 2
5 clutch 3A electro-magnetic 1
Figure 4. Feeding mechanism
3
2
1
4
5
