1行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
計畫編號：NSC 94-2213-E-260-026–
計畫名稱: 在多重憑證中心環境下植基於雙線性配對之身分基礎式,跨領域認證
金鑰及簽章之研究
執行期間： 94 年08 月01 日至95 年10 月31 日
主持人: 簡宏宇
計畫參與人員: 林茹玉、鄧鴻毅、陳哲豪 朝陽科技大學資管系
一、中文摘要
在傳統式憑證式密碼系統 (certificate-based cryptosystem)中，使用者必
須存取相關憑證並做完驗證後才可使用該憑證所標示之公開金鑰，此一作業需要
一些儲存及計算成本。在 1984 年，Shimar [2] 首先提出身分基礎式密碼系統
(ID-based cryptosystem)，在此一系統中使用者的公開身分資訊即為其公開金
鑰，因此使用此一公開金鑰並不需額外之儲存及驗證成本。如此相對於憑證式密
碼系統，較易於管理公開金鑰憑證且無需額外的儲存空間及計算來儲存及驗證憑
證。此一特性，在一些使用者有公開且易取得的公開身分環境中特別適合。
原本 weiling pairing 被使用來將一些橢圓曲線 (如：超奇異曲線)上的離
散對數問題轉成另一有限場上的離散對數問題，因而不利於這些曲線被用密碼系
統上。此一特性直到 Joux [12] 於 ANTS2000 年提出三方式金鑰協議機制起開
始有了改變。更甚者，Boneh and Franklin [6] 利用 pairing 提出身分基礎式
加密機制。此一發展引發了不少學者利用 pairing 發展一些相關的身分基礎式
(ID-based) 密碼系統。這些發展包括：認證式金鑰協定、加密系統、數位簽章
等等。甚至，一些既有的密碼系統不易或無法達成的功能，利用雙線式配對便可
輕易達成；諸如：三方式金鑰協定 (Tripartite key agreement)、多重信賴中
心密碼系統 (multiple-TA cryptosystem) 等等。這些發展為資訊安全理論及實
務提供了另一道開廣且前途十分看好的領域。
本計劃利用雙線性配對設計一系列相關安全機制：包括 (1) 抵擋內部攻擊
者之身分基礎式三方金鑰協定、(2) 適用於隨意網 (ad hoc) 之身分基礎式安全
架構、及(3) 利用身分基礎式密碼系統設計安全電子遺囑系統。
關鍵詞：認證式金鑰協定、數位簽章、橢圓曲線、雙線性配對、電子遺囑。
Abstract:
Conventionally, the certificate-based public key cryptosystem requires a large
amount of computing time and storage to access and verify the certificate before using
3but not all entities) is compromised and perfect forward secrecy is under the situation
that al the involved entities’ long-term keys (but not the Trusted Authority) are
compromised. Under the In ID-based systems, each user’s private key is known and 
issued by Trusted Authorities (TA); therefore, compromise of TA’s private key leads 
to compromise of all the private keys issued by TAs, too. TA forward secrecy requires
that even if the TA’s private key is compromised in the future does not lead to 
compromise of the communications in the past.
The insider attack [18, 19, 23, 24] on a tripartite key agreement protocol means
that one of the three entities try to impersonate another one of the three entities. For
example, might try to fool that they and are participating in a protocol run,
while in fact does not. This attack could have serious consequences: for example,
if acts as an on-line escrow agent, an auditor or a referee. If B could impersonate C
to A, then B can communicate with or performing transactions with A; while A would
do the transactions or communications only if C (the referee) is monitoring the
contents on-line. With no referee involved, this might cause serious risk for A.
Here, we [18] show the insider attack on Zhang-Liu-Kim’s ID-based scheme (the
ZLK scheme for short) and Shim’s certificate-based scheme, and propose a new
tripartite ID-based scheme that improves both security and efficiency. Our scheme is
based on the bilinear pairings. And, its security is proved secure in terms of
in-distinguishability [3-5] and resistance to the insider attack in a modified
Bellare-Pointcheval-Rogaway model [4].
Regarding ad hoc networks, as mobile devices with wireless communication
capacity become more and more popular, the study on ad-hoc networks that offer
convenient infrastructure-free communication has arose the attention from both the
academic and the industry. However, the previous security schemes proposed for ad
hoc networks either suffer from the structure support problems or have security flaws.
We, therefore, examine the weaknesses of a Bohio-Miri’s recent work [10], and then
propose our new schemes to enhance the security and the performance. The security
of the proposed protocols is proved in the random oracle model.
In addition to the study of pairing-based cryptographic primitives, we also
concern the study of applications of pairing-based cryptosystems. Here, we study the
e-will system. The traditional living wills are usually in the form of a document,
which has to be signed, sealed, and witnessed to confirm its validity. We integrate the
Internet and information security technologies, using bilinear pairings function and
the identity-based public key system to establish a holographic will system and a
mystic will system. The testator can create or modify the will anytime on the Internet.
With the advantages of convenience, safety, and low cost of the design, this research
is expected to encourage everyone to prepare a living will online, so as to shorten the
5To verify the data from B and C , A checks whether the following two
equations (9 & 10) holds. Likewise, B and C perform similar verifications. After
authenticating the messages from the other two entities, CBA and,, share the
session keys specified in Equations (3).
)),(),(),',,',,',,,,,(( 11
?
Bv
pubBBCCBBAAB PQePuePPPPPPCBAsidHhv  (1)
)),(),(),',',',,,,,(( 11
?
Cv
pubCCCCBBAAC PQePuePPPPPPCBAsidHhv  (2)
'8
,,
'7
,,
'6
,,
'5
,,
4
,,
3
,,
2
,,
1
,,
)','(,),'(
,)',(,),(,)','(
,),'(,)',(,),(
a
CBCBA
a
CBCBA
a
CBCBA
a
CBCBA
a
CBCBA
a
CBCBA
a
CBCBA
a
cBCBA
PPeKPPeK
PPeKPPeKPPeK
PPeKPPeKPPeK



(3)
We define the security of tripartite key agreement scheme as follows.
Definition 1 (Secure tripartite key agreement protocol): A tripartite key agreement
protocol is secure in our model if the following thee requirements are satisfied:
1. Validity: When the protocol is run among three oracles in the absence of a
malicious adversary, the three oracles accept the same key.
2. Indistinguishability: For all probabilistic, polynomial-time adversaries A ,
)(kAdv A is negligible.
3. Security against insider impersonation and key-compromise
impersonation: Even an insider (and a key-compromise impersonator)
cannot impersonate another entity to the third entity and complete the session
run with the third one.
Theorem 1. The proposed tripartite key agreement protocol is secure in the sense of
Definition 1 if the Hess’s digital signature scheme is secure against the adaptively
chosen message attack and the DBDH is hard.
Proof: the detailed proof was given in [18].
3.2 Security framework for ad hoc networks
Regarding key agreement in Ad hoc networks, we have showed the weaknesses of
Bohio-Miri’s ID-based security schemes for ad hoc networks: (1) the universal
forgery attack on the signature scheme, and (2) the inefficiency and the structure
support requirement of their escrow-free schemes. We have proposed our protocols to
improve the efficiency and the security as follows.
Static and dynamic pair-wise communication
7down-degree of the current parent node, from bottom to top to get the group key. For
each derived secret k after applying the key agreement protocol at level i, the value kP
will be used as the ephemeral public value for the key agreement protocol at the
(i-1)th level. Also the node with the smallest identity in each subgroup will represent
the subgroup to participate the (i-1)th level key agreement. The final derived key for
the root node is the final group key for the whole group.
Take Figure 1 as an example. Entities 1~8 are arranged in the leaves, and the
intermediate nodes in the tree represent the sub-groups (or the final group) covering
the entities under the nodes. Initially, all nodes at level 3 respectively involve the key
agreement protocol instances of their subgroups. Nodes 1, 2, and 3 will launch the
tripartite key agreement to derive their subgroup key, say 3,2,1k . Nodes 4, 5, 6 involve
in another instance to derive their subgroup key, say 6,5,4k . Node 7 and 8 initiate an
instance of two-party key agreement protocol to derive their subgroup key, say 8,7k .
At level 2, Node 1 represents its subgroup, Node 4 represents its subgroup, and Node
7 represents its subgroup to initiate the tripartite key agreement protocol for level 2.
During the tripartite key agreement instance, Node 1 uses k1,2,3 P as its ephemeral
public value, Node 4 uses 6,5,4k P as its ephemeral public value, and Node 7 uses
8,7k P as its ephemeral public value. After this instance of tripartite key agreement, the
group key corresponding to Node 12 is 8,76,5,43,2,1),(8~1
kkkPPeK  . Since each leave in
the tree knows exactly one secret of (k1,2,3, 6,5,4k , 8,7k ), all the leaves can derive the
group key 8~1K .
To dynamically adapt to the membership change in ad hoc networks, the ternary
tree is updated accordingly and the keys on the path from the lowest updated node to
the root are refreshed, using the key agreement protocols. The computational
complexity of this approach is O(log3 n ), which is more efficient than its counterparts
[12, 15, 19] where the complexity is O( n2log ).
The security of the group key management is directly based on that of the
two-party key agreement and that of the tripartite key agreement. Since both the
two-party key agreement and the tripartite key agreement are secure, the group key
management is secure.
9Proof: the detailed proof was given in [20].
3.3 Secure e-will system
We, based on ID-based cryptosystems, have proposed two e-will protocols- the e-
Mystic Will protocol and the e-Holographic Will protocol [22].
The Holographic Will System
The traditional holographic wills are usually written in paper document. This
kind of will is not sealed, so the testator can revise it at his convenience. However,
this approach is vulnerable to being modified or being destroyed due to possible
natural or human factors. Therefore, we, based on the Internet and information
security technologies, design our Holographic E-Will System. This System securely
stores the testament in the trusted third party, where the merit of easy modification by
the authenticated testator is still retained. All the transmissions are protected via the
Secure Socket Layer (SSL) channel, which is denoted denoted as SSL .
Trusted Authority(TA)
Court
Hospital(H)Testator(A)
Relatives
1.
2. 3. 4.
5.
6. 7.
Figure 2. The operation procedure of the Holographic Will System
The operation procedure of the Holographic Will System is shown in Fig. 4.
Each step is detailed as follows.
1. System Construction Phase: TA sets up the system parameters
 TAPPHHeGGqE ,,,,,,,, 2121 , which is the same as the “set up” in Section 2.3.
11
Fig 3. The correlation between the application letter and the will
(2) LATA SSL  :
When the court receives the request for establishing a living will, the court will
apply the testator A’s public key AQ to verify the signatures. The verification
formula is ))(},({ LLIBSV
AQ
 and ))(},({ MSIBSV
AQ
. If the signatures are
validated, the court will sign the application letter ),( LLIBSL
CS
 and reply
a missive Lto the testator to confirm the application.
(3) When the testator A receives the reply from the court, he uses the court’s public 
key CQ to verify whether it has been legally endorsed. The verification
formula is )),(},({ LLLIBSV
CQ
 . It can be confirmed that the case has been
accepted by the court.
The testator can modify the will anytime on the Internet and repeat procedures
(1) ~(3) to establish a legal will.
4. The hospital issues the certificate of death: When the testator is deceased, the
doctor diagnoses the cause of the death and issue a digital death certificate (DC) to
the relatives. The certificate includes the doctor’s signature )(DCIBSS
DS
D 
and the hospital’s signature ),( DS
H SDCIBSS
H
 . DC , DS , and HS are
transmitted to A’s lineal relatives by blood within one level of relationship.
5. Relatives submit DC: Relatives of the deceased submit the certificate of death
},,{ HD SSDC to the court and request for revelation of the will.
6. The court authenticates the DC: The court verify whether the certificate contains
the doctor’s digital signature and the hospital’s digital signature. The verification 
Application Lette
遺
遺
Will
Sig
Testator Court
file
L M：Plaintext
Testator
Sig
Sig
：Signed
：Unsigned
Sig Sig
13
to save cost, raise security and provide convenience, we have proposed two e-will
schemes- the holographic e-will system and the sealed e-will system. The security of
the schemes is based on the well studied protocols. Therefore, the security can be
ensured. Thanks to the Internet and the well-studied information security technologies,
our schemes are more convenient, more secure, and less costly than the conventional
approaches. With these merits, this research is expected to encourage more people to
prepare a living will online, so as to shorten the time and the cost for the government
and the family for arranging the inheritance of the deceased.
Several results of this project have been published or accepted in International
Journals and International conferences. Two prototype systems of e-will protocols
have been implemented.
5. References
[1] A. Joux. A one round protocol for tripartite Diffie-Hellman. Algorithmic number
theory symposium, ANTS-IV 2000, LNCS 1838, Spring-Verlag, pp.385-394,
2000.
[2] A. Shamir. Identity based on cryptosystems and signature schemes. Advances in
Cryptology-Crypto’84, pp. 47-53, , 1984.
[3] Belare, M., Rogaway, P., “Provably secure session key distribution: The three 
party case”, in 27th ACM Symposium on the Theory of Computing, pp. 57-66,
ACM press, 1995.
[4] Belare, M., Pointcheval, D., and Rogaway, P., “Authenticated key exchange 
secure against dictionary atacks”, Eurocrypt 2000, LNCS 1807, Springer, pp. 
139-155, 2000.
[5] Caneti, R., Krawczyk, H., “Analysis of key-exchange protocols and their use for
building secure channels”, in Eurocrypt 2001, LNCS 2045, pp. 451-472, Springer,
2001.
[6] D. Boneh and M. Franklin, Identity-based encryption from the Weil pairing,
Advances in Cryptology-CRYPTO 2001, LNCS 2139, pp. 213-229 , 2001.
[7] D. Balenson, D. McGrew, and A. Sherman,“Key management for large dynamic
group: one-way function trees and amortized initialization”, IETF Internet Draft:
draft-balensongroupkeymgmt-oft-00.txt, 1999.
[8] F. Hess. Efficient identity based signature schemes based on pairings. SAC 2002,
LNCS 2595, Springer-Verlag, pp. 310-324, 2002.
[9] K-H Rhee, Y-H Park and G. Tsudik., A group key management architecture for
mobile ad-hoc wireless networks, journal of information science and engineering
21, pp. 415-428, 2005.
[10] M. Bohio and A. Miri, Efficient identity-based security schemes for a hoc
