（二）計畫英文摘要。 
 
The centre of the cartilage tissue culture process is the bioreactor, where the seeded 
cells (chondrocytes) grow in a 3-D scaffold to proliferate and produce extracellular 
matrix (ECM) to form neo-tissue for clinical applications. For successful functional 
cartilage tissue engineering, in the bioreactors, the local environmental conditions 
around the cells are crucial and have to be optimized. To tackle this issue, several 
researches have being carried out to investigate the effect of environmental conditions 
on chondrocyte functions. However, in the relevant studies of this kind, the 
conventional static cultures were adopted and the scales of three-dimensional (3-D) 
cultures used were relatively large. The cell culture microenvironments under such 
circumstance cannot be regarded as stable and homogenous. This is mainly due to the 
batch-wise replacement of culture medium and the chemical gradients existing in 
these 3-D culture constructs and culture chambers respectively. This results in 
non-quantifiable culture conditions in the culture system, hence largely hampers the 
precise study of the relation between cellular responses and the surrounding 
microenvironments. To faithfully investigate the quantitative link between 
environmental conditions and chondrocyte function, a steady and homogenous 
extracellular environment is required. Borrowing from the concept of 
“miniaturization”, a perfusion bioreactor system has been down-scaled in our 
previous works, which has also proved to be beneficial for the establishment of stable 
culture condition with low chemical gradient. In this project, attempt is made to use 
the developed perfusion mini -bioreactor systems to study the impact of some 
environmental parameters on chondrocyte functions. The environmental parameters 
include the serum level of culture medium, and the presence and concentration of 
growth factors (The first year project). 
 
 
 
 
 
Keywords：Cartilage tissue engineering, articular chondrocytes, perfusion bioreactors 
 
 2
obstacles to the generation of functional tissues and their widespread clinical use are 
related to a limited understanding of the regulatory role of specific physicochemical 
culture parameters on tissue development. In a bioreactor, the provision of optimum 
culture conditions is the key to successful cartilage tissue engineering since the 
synthesis of cartilage ECM is largely dependent on extracellular environments. 
Successful tissue engineering largely relies on the fundamental understanding the 
quantitative link between extracellular conditions and cell functions. Though several 
studies have being carried out to find out the relationships, most of these researches 
exploited conventional static culture techniques, in which the culture medium is 
literally supplied in a batch-wise manner. Not only does it suffer from contamination 
risk, but it also results in a fluctuating and unsteady culture environment. Under such 
improperly controlled environment, the cellular response to the target environmental 
factors investigated may be complex. 
 
Conversely, it is generally believed that perfusion-based bioreactors are capable of not 
only keeping the culture system sterile during the entire culture period but also 
capable of providing a culture system for continuous nutrient supply and waste 
removal; hence keeping the culture environment more stable [4]. For a precise 
investigation of the link between cell physiology and surrounding culture conditions, 
a stable culture environment is important because even minor changes in extracellular 
conditions may greatly influence the cell physiology [5]. However, most of the 
published perfusion-based 3-D cell culture systems are relatively large in scale. A 3-D 
cell culture in such systems consumes relatively more research resources (e.g. cell 
number or culture medium) and more importantly, the cell culture microenvironments 
under this circumstance cannot be regarded as homogenous. This is mainly due to the 
chemical gradients existing in these 3-D culture constructs and culture chambers. 
Non-quantifiable culture conditions caused by the chemical gradient in the culture 
system may restrict the precise study of the relation between cellular responses and 
the surrounding microenvironments. 
 
To tackle this problem, the miniaturization of a perfusion bioreactor was adopted in 
our previous study, which has also been proved to provide a stable and homogenous 
culture environment [4]. In this works, two types of perfusion-based cell culture 
systems including a patented multiple parallel mini-bioreactor system (Fig.1 (a)) (for 
the first year project: 97/01～97/07) and a microfluidic-based micro-bioreactor 
system (Fig. 1 (b)) (for the second year project: 97/08～98/07) will be used for 
studying the influence of some extracellular conditions (e.g. serum and/or growth 
factors supplement and physical microenvironments) on chondrocyte function 
 4
after matrix damage. Failure of this mechanism may lead to progressive cartilage 
degeneration [11]. For TGF-β, its functions include to up-regulate chondrocytes 
synthesis of PGs and collagen, modulate chondrocytes proliferation, counter the IL-I 
induced effect on expression of MMPs and down-regulate the expression of IL-I 
receptors in articular cartilage [12]. Basically, TGF-β shows positive role in matrix 
synthesis.  
 
How to arrange these above-mentioned growth factors in medium or even in scaffold 
is important in terms of control the growth of articular cartilage in vitro cultivation. 
For example, the combination of three growth factors (10 ng/ml TGF-β +100 ng/ml 
IGF-I + 10 ng/ml FGF), added to serum-free culture medium in collagen I gel system, 
enhances the mitotic activity of bovine chondrocytes similar to 20% fetal calf serum 
[13]. In some cases, at high TGF-β concentration may lead to toxic effect [14]. In 
addition to the combinations and concentration level, the application procedure is also 
important in terms of manipulating of cartilage growth. Experiment data have 
demonstrated that the structural, functional and molecular properties of engineered 
cartilage can be modulated by sequential application factors. For example, 
sequentially supplemented first with TGF-β and FGF-2 can promote chondrocytes 
proliferation and then with IGF-I can promote rapid chondrogenesis and tissue growth 
[15]. 
 
(四) 研究方法 
1. Outline of the research project  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First year (97/01～97/07) 
Study of the influence of environmental 
factors (serum level and growth factors) on 
chondrocyte function using perfusion 
mini-bioreactor system 
(2-1) Chondrocyte isolation 
(2-2) Cell encapsulation  
(2-3) Perfusion cell culture 
using the developed 
mini-bioreactor system  
(2-4) 
Modifications of 
culture conditions 
(2-5) Bioassays  
 
 6
to allow replicate experiments. Briefly, a certain amount of the prepared cell/agarose 
suspension was loaded into the chamber of mini-bioreactor using a 1-ml syringe and 
kept at 4oC in a fridge for 10 min (to form a gel construct of 7 mm and 1 mm in 
diameter and height respectively). Then, the entire cell culture system was kept in an 
incubator for up to 6 days. In the perfusion culture system, culture medium was 
delivered using a multi-channel syringe pump at the medium supply rate of 10 μl h-1. 
During the cell culture, the waste culture medium was collected periodically for the 
subsequent bioassays. 
 
2-4 Modifications of culture condition (serum level and the regime of growth factor 
addition) 
 
To fundamentally investigate the effect of serum on chondrocyte function, the serum 
level in the culture medium will be simply adjusted to the concentrations of 0%, 4%, 
8%, 12%, 16% and 20% (v/v). Besides, to understand the impact of growth factor 
addition on chondrocyte function, three kinds of growth factors including insulin-like 
growth factor Ⅰ, transforming growth factor β and born morphogenetic protein will 
be supplemented into the culture medium individually with different concentrations or, 
together with varied combinations. 
 
2-5 Bioassays 
 
(a) Lactate 
Chondrocytes exist in an avascular environment where the oxygen partial pressure is 
low so that the metabolism of the chondrocytes is predominantly by anaerobic 
glycolysis and consequently results in the production of a large amount of lactic acid. 
In chondrocyte-related research, the production of lactic acid is generally used as an 
indicator of metabolic activity of cells. The lactic acid produced and released into 
culture medium was measured using a Lactate Reagent Kit (Trinity Biotech Plc., 
Ireland). The assays were carried out as directed by manufacturer’s instruction. 
Briefly, 10 μl of collected medium was mixed with 100 μl of lactate reagent, 
containing lactate oxidase (400 μ/l), peroxidase (2400 μ/l) and chromogen precursors, 
in each well of 96-well microplate and incubated at room temperature for 5 minutes to 
allow colour development. The absorbance at 540 nm was measured using a 
microplate reader. 50~500 mg L-1 of lactate solution, made from dissolving lactic acid 
sodium salt in DI water, was used as standard. 
 
 
 8
buffer [50 mM Tris, 150 mM NaCl, pH 7.5] were mixed in a well of 96-well 
microplate. Mixed solution were then read with a fluorescence microplate reader  at 
360 nm excitation and 460 nm emission, with a 420 nm cut-off filter. 5 to 125 ng of 
calf thymus DNA was used as standard. Cell number was calculated by using a 
conversion factor of 8 pg DNA per chondrocyte (Freyria et al., 1999) [20]. 
 
(d) Cell viability  
The viability of the cells in agarose gel was evaluated using a florescent dye kit 
(LIVE/DEAD® Viability/Cytotoxicity Kit L-3224, Molecular Probes). Briefly, after 
cell culture, agarose gel was collected and located on a Petri dish. 100 μl of dye 
reagent containing 1μM calcein and 2μM ethidium homodimer-1 was added to the top 
of agarose gel and then placed in an incubator for 20 min. Cell viability was estimated 
by counting the live (green) and dead (red) cells under a fluorescence microscope.  
 
(五) 結果與討論 
Thus far, a perfusion-based mini-bioreactor system (please refer to Fig. 1 (a) and 
Fig. 2) has been established. This was done by the casting of polymer 
(poly-dimethylsiloxane (PDMS)) on a custom-made mold. Briefly, plastic mold with 
the specific dimensions (please refer to the Fig. 2 (a)) was fabricated using laser 
ablation technique. Then, PDMS pre-polymer was cast on the prepared plastic mold. 
After curing, the PDMS slab was obtained from a mechanical de-molding process. 
The PDMS slabs acquired was subsequently assembled to form the mini-bioreactor 
system as seen in the Fig. 1 (a). In order to achieve perfusion culture, metal tubes 
connecting to plastic tubing was then punched to the PDMS elastomer to form a flow 
system (Fig. 1 (a)). In this work, multi-channel syringe pump was used to 
continuously deliver culture medium to the mini-bioreactor. (Fig. 2 (b)).  
 
Before using the established system for the proposed research, some pre-tests 
including the observations of the cell viability and cell culture environment were 
carried out. Briefly, for example, a de-molding agent was used in this fabrication work, 
which facilitates the de-molding process. However, this may cause toxic effect on the 
cells cultured. To ensure the all fabrication process is friendly to the cells, a simple 
cell viability investigation was conducted using a fluorescent dye kit. Result (Fig. 3) 
revealed that the cell viability after a 6 day 3-D perfusion culture kept at as high as 
 10
 
 
 
 
 
Multi-channel syringe pump for medium delivery 
Custom-made incubator 
Custom-made perfusion mini-bioreactor 
 
(a)                                   (b) 
Fig. 2 The detail dimensions of mini-bioreactor (a) and the experimental setup of 
mini-bioreactor system (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 Observation of cell viability in the perfusion 3-D cell culture using a 
Live/Dead® fluorescence dye. Green and red dots represent live and dead 
cells respectively. Images were obtained after 6-day culture using a 
fluorescence microscopy and digital camera. 
 
 
 
 12
[8] Luyten, F.P.; Hascall, V.C.; Nissley, S.P.; Morales, T.I. and Reddi, A.H. 
Insulin-like growth factor maintain steady-state metabolism of proteoglycans in 
bovine articular cartilage explants. Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 1988, 267, 416-425. 
[9] Van der Kraan, P.M.; Buma, P.; Van-Kuppevelt, T. and Van-Den-Berg, W.B. 
Interaction of chondrocytes, extracellular matrix and growth factors: relevance for 
articular cartilage tissue engineering. Osteoarthritis and Cartilage 2002, 10, 
631-637. 
[10] Van de Lest, C.H.A.; van den Hoogen, B.M. and  van Weeren, P.R. 
Loading-induced changes in synovial fluid affect cartilage metabolism. 
Biorheology 2000, 37, 45-55. 
[11] Martin, J.A. and Buckwalter, J.A. The role of chondrocyte-matrix interactions in 
maintaining and repairing articular cartilage. Biorheology 2000, 37, 129-140. 
[12] F. Redini, A.; Mauviel, Pronost, S.; Loyau, G. and Pujol, J-P. Transforming 
growth factor-β exerts opposite effects from interleukin-1β (IL-1β) on cultured 
rabbit articular chondrocytes through reduction of IL-1 receptor expression. 
Arthritis Rheum. 1993, 36, 44-50. 
[13] Chaipinyo, K.; Oakes, B.W. and Damme, M.P.I.V. Effects of growth factors on 
cell proliferation and matrix synthesis of low-density, primary bovine 
chondrocytes cultured in collagen I gel. Journal of Orthopaedic Research 2002, 
20, 1070-1078. 
[14] Nixon, A.J.; Lillich, J.T.; Burton-Wurster, N.; Lust, G. and Mohammed, H.O. 
Differentiated cellular function in fetal chondrocytes cultured with insulin-like 
growth factor-I and transforming growth factor-β. J. Orthop Res. 1998, 16, 
531-541. 
[15] Pei, M.; Seidel, J.; Vunjak-Novakovic, G. and Freed, L.E. Growth factors for 
sequential cellular de- and re-differentiation in tissue engineering. Biochemical 
and Biophysical Research communications 2002, 294, 149-154. 
[16]  Hoemann, C.D.; Sun, J.; Chrzanowski, V.; Buschmann, M.D. A Multivalent 
Assay to Detect Glycosaminoglycan, Protein, Collagen, RNA, DNA Content in 
Milligram Samples of Cartilage or Hydrogel-based Repair Cartilage. Analytical 
Biochemistry 2002, 300, 1-10. 
[17] Farndale, R.W.; Buttle, D.J.; Barrett, A.J. Improved Quantitation and 
Discrimination of Sulphated Glycosaminoglycans by Use of Dimethylmethylene 
Blue. J Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1986, 883, 173-177. 
[18] Stegemann, H. and Stalder, K. H. Determination of Hydroxyproline. Clin. Chim. 
Acta 1967, 18, 267-273. 
[19] Urban, J.P. and McMullin, J.F. Swelling Pressure of the Intervertebral Disc: 
 14
