topic information. Preliminary experiments performed 
on Mandarin broadcast news indicated that improved 
performance were achievable under different 
conditions. 
 
英文關鍵詞： Random Walk, Document Expansion, Query Expansion, 
Latent Semantic Analysis 
 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
無線網路環境下之中文口語處理技術II (第三年) 
計畫編號：NSC98-2221-E-002-129-MY3 
執行期限：100年8月1日至101年7月31日 
主持人：李琳山 國立台灣大學資訊工程學系暨研究所 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
In this project we focused on spoken content retrieving because 
accessing network resources has been the core of human life for 
many years. Retrieving objects semantically related to the query has 
been widely studied in text information retrieval. However, when 
applying the text-based techniques on spoken content, the inevitable 
recognition errors may seriously degrade the performance. In this 
project, we successfully integrated various techniques in speech 
signal processing and information retrieval, such as language 
modeling approach for retrieval, pseudo-relevant feedback, 
document and query expansion, latent topic analysis, graph-based 
approach and random work, etc., so as to achieve the above goal. 
For each word in the lexicon, a graph is constructed describing 
acoustic similarity among spoken segments in the archive. Score 
propagation over the graph helps in estimating the expected term 
frequencies. The enhanced expected term frequencies can be used 
in the language modeling retrieval approach, as well as semantic 
retrieval techniques such as the document expansion based on latent 
semantic analysis, and query expansion considering both words and 
latent topic information. Preliminary experiments performed on 
Mandarin broadcast news indicated that improved performance were 
achievable under different conditions. 
 
Index Terms— Random Walk, Document Expansion, 
Query Expansion, Latent Semantic Analysis 
 
中文摘要 
本計畫以語音數位內容之檢索為主軸，因為網路資源之有效存取多年
來已成為人類生活之核心。如何檢索出語意相關的文件已在文字資訊
檢索上被廣泛的研究，然而當人們把這些以文字為基礎的技術應用到
語音資訊檢索上時，語音辨識的辨識錯誤將嚴重的影響這些技術的效
能。在本計畫中我們成功的整合了諸多語音處理及資訊檢索的相關技
術，如語言模型檢索法、虛擬相關回援、文件及查詢詞擴展、潛藏語
意分析、圖形演算法及隨機漫步等，以達成上述目標。對辭典中的每
一個詞，我們會建立一聲學相似度圖，依據此圖的架構，我們將能夠
更準確的估測該詞在語音文件中的詞頻，而依此方法估測出來的詞頻
被用來強化語言模型檢索法、文件擴展、查詢詞擴展等技術。初步的
研究結果顯示，相較於傳統的語音資訊檢索技術，提出的方法在不同
辨識率的廣播新聞上都可以得到顯著的進步。 
 
1.  INTRODUCTION 
 
Spoken content retrieval will be very important to retrieve and browse 
multimedia content over the Internet. Substantial effort has been made in 
spoken content retrieval in recent years, and many successful techniques 
have been developed  [1]. Most works in spoken content retrieval 
nowadays focused on spoken term detection, for which the goal is simply 
returning spoken segments that include the query terms. This is 
insufficient because users naturally prefer that the technologies can 
return all the objects the users are looking for, regardless of whether the 
query terms are included or not. This led to extensive recent works on 
semantic retrieval of spoken content  [2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]. The techniques for 
semantic retrieval such as latent semantic analysis and query/document 
expansion  [8, 9] have been widely studied in text information 
retrieval. Taking ASR transcriptions as the text, these techniques 
developed for text information retrieval can be directly applied for 
spoken content retrieval. However, since these techniques were 
developed for text without errors, the inevitable recognition errors in 
ASR transcriptions may seriously degrade the performance. On the 
other hand, it has been found that enhancing the term frequency 
estimation for spoken documents based on context information may 
improve the performance of both approaches of language modeling 
retrieval and query expansion  [2]. 
On the other hand, it may be assumed that the acoustic 
feature sequences representing different occurrences of the 
same term may be relatively similar in some way, while very 
different feature sequences very possibly imply different terms. It 
has actually been found that acoustic feature similarity between 
spoken segments used in graph-based re-ranking approach is very 
helpful in the spoken term detection task  [10, 11]. In this approach, 
given a user query, the retrieval engine first searches through the 
lattices for the spoken con-tent to produce a first-pass returned list of 
spoken segments ranked according to the initial scores. Then a graph 
is constructed for the first-pass retrieved spoken segments, in which 
each node represents a spoken segment, and the edge weights are 
the acoustic similarities between the feature sequences 
corresponding to the query hypotheses in the lattices. Based on the 
concept that segments strongly connected to more segments with 
higher scores on the graph may also have higher probabilities of 
containing the query terms, the scores for the spoken segments thus 
propagate over the graph, and the detection results are re-ranked 
accordingly. 
 
In this project, in order to have more robust semantic 
retrieval for content, we propose to integrate various techniques 
in speech signal processing and information retrieval to enhance 
the expected term frequencies de-rived from the lattices by 
acoustic similarity graphs. Experimental results showed that the 
graph-enhanced expected term frequencies can not only improve 
the performance of the conventional language modeling retrieval 
approach, but boost the performance of the document and query 
expansion techniques for semantic retrieval. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
層的聲學模型、語言模型到完整的語音辨識系統、對話系統皆包括在內，是語音研究者絕不可
錯過的一大盛事。本次 SLT 2010 於 2010 年 12 月 12 到 15 日在美國加州柏克萊舉辦，許多人
皆參與此會議。 
    本次會議於美國加州柏克萊的 Claremont 舉行。大會投稿論文約 200 篇，接受發表論文 88
篇。四天會議中共 3 個 keynotes、2 個 tutorial、4 個 award sessions 以及 80 個 poster/demo session，
同時在會場內進行，各個議程分別就語音及語言處理當前最新技術與應用，以及各個前瞻性主
題做深入與完整探討。 
 本人於 12 月 14 日中午於會議的 award session 口頭發表此論文，而後受到良好的回應與討
論。相信對未來的研究非常具有幫助。在 SLT 會議結束後，本人於飯店內稍作休息，並搭乘
隔天(12 月 16 日)清晨之長榮班機，於 12 月 17 號早上返抵台北。 
 
三、與會心得 
    首先，感謝學校預算支助本人出國參加國際研討會，才能有機會參與這次的 SLT 2010。
這次與會包含許多學術界及科技界重要人士，算是重要的國際會議，與會學者皆為語音/語言
處理相關領域之專家，討論之熱烈，可想而知。除了會議進行時的討論外，連中場 Coffee Break
的時間，亦可看到許許多多學者仍不斷針對他們的疑問與作者進行交流，討論之熱絡，是我參
加國內研討會時，並不多見的景象。 
SLT堪稱是語音及語言處理最重要的學術會議之一，論文審查過程嚴謹，議題也涵蓋當今
語音及語言處理技術之範疇，為目前語音辨識等研究領域上最前瞻與創新的成果。 
 能夠榮幸參與此會議並發表自己的論文，同時參與討論其他人的研究內容，對我在此領域
上，相信會有很大的推進效果。這次的經驗使我受益匪淺，對於未來研究生涯相當有助益。誠
心希望教育部及學校能繼續秉持此一信念，鼓勵國內專家學者出國參加相關國際會議，以拓展
視野並提升我國學術實力。 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：李琳山 計畫編號：98-2221-E-002-129-MY3 
計畫名稱：無線網路環境下之中文口語處理技術(II) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 21 21 100%  
博士生 9 9 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 3 3 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 4 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
