 1
ABSTRACT 
 
Efficiency and accuracy are the main factors to develop the competence for the 
integrated-circuit (IC) assembly industry. An IC assembly house needs to deal with 
problems of integrating production flows of wafer in, assembly, test, and shipping 
to provide clients instant and accurate products and services information.  In this 
study, RFID technology, combined with RosettaNet network and enterprise 
resource planning (ERP) system, is applied to resolve the wafer receiving and 
inventory transaction problems. An electronic material flow control system is 
developed by integrating RFID technology, RosettaNet network, and ERP system.  
The developed system is implemented in a local IC assembly company.  Results 
suggest that labor cost and man-made errors are reduced using RFID technology. 
The developed system greatly reduces operators’ workload and operation costs by 
enhancing capability of the ERP system. 
 
Keywords: RFID Technology, Production Efficiency, IC Assembly Industry. 
 
 
 3
1. Introduction 
The integrated-circuit (IC) sector in Taiwan is comprised mainly of IC chip design and 
fabrication, IC assembly, and system product design and fabrication industries. Fueled by 
rapid investment and development efforts from government and private enterprises, this 
sector has sustained a rapid growth in recent years becoming one of the most profitable 
industries. 
In the IC assembly industry, efficiency and accuracy for information communication 
are two main factors for IC assembly companies to gain their competence. The demand 
for new products is changing rapidly and the life cycle of IC products is relatively short.  
The IC assembly companies need to accurately deal with information flow through wafer 
delivery, receiving, storage, wafer receiving, packaging, testing, finishing, and shipping in 
order to fulfill customer demand. Thereby, the IC assembly company needs to somehow 
integrate internal and external data using information and communication technologies to 
improve its productivity. 
Radio frequency identification (RFID) technology is an electronic information carrying 
device, which utilizes wireless radio waves to transmit, identify, trace, sequence, and 
confirm various objects. Applications of RFID technology can be found in many areas, 
including material management, inventory review, manufacturing automation, parking lot 
control, entrance guard control, automobile burglar proof, and the like.  For shop floor 
control in IC assembly process, collection of real-time data from production lines, such as 
work-in-process item, quantitative, location, and packaing status, should be just-in-time 
and instantly feedback to management information systems so that the supervisor can 
easily access full production information for making right decisions. Therefore, 
applications of RFID technology to the IC assembly industry deserve to be investigated   
In this study, RFID technology is applied to resolve two manufacturing logistics 
problems arising in IC assembly houses. One is manual operational errors in the wafer 
receiving process. The other is incapability of electronic transaction process for inventory 
control. An electronic material flow control system is developed using Oracle application 
implementation methodology to integrate RFID technology, RosettaNet network, and 
ERP system. The developed electronic material flow control system is implemented in a 
local IC assembly company.  Results from this study suggest that the proposed system 
can be used to eliminate most of manual operational losses, provide highly electronic 
information, and eliminate clients’ complains and penalty for IC assembly houses. 
 
 
distribution center operations and likely impact on distribution center operations and 
costs once the RFID technology is introduced. Toiruul et al., [15] develop a RFID 
application to serve farmers’ products in aggregation center through the supply chain. 
 
3. Process Analysis for IC Assembly Houses 
In order to apply RFID technology for improving production efficiency and accuracy, the 
manufacturing process of IC assembly is analyzed in detail. Through the analysis, some 
possible operational problems can be diagnosed. 
3.1 IC assembly process 
The IC assembly in the electronics industry plays an important role in electronic system 
design. There are at least two types of IC assembly product.  One is the lead frame base 
product and the other the ball grid array product.  Figure 1 displays detailed assembly 
process for both products in most IC assembly houses. For lead frame base products, the 
process consists of incoming quality control (IQC), lapping (L/P), wafer mount (W/M), die 
saw (D/S), visual inspection (A31), die bonding, curing, plasma cleaning (P/L), wire 
bonding (W/B), visual check (A42), die coating (D/C), molding (M/D), marking (M/K), post 
mold curing (PMC), de-junk and trim (D/T), solder plating (S/P), soldering check (A62), 
forming singulation (F/S), lead scanner inspection (L/S), and final vision (F/V).  For ball 
grid array products, the process consists incoming quality control (IQC), lapping (L/P), 
wafer mount (W/M), die saw (D/S), visual inspection (A31), die bonding (D/B), curing, 
plasma cleaning (P/L), wire bonding (W/B), visual check (A42), die coating (D/C), 
molding (M/D), marking (M/K), post mold curing (PMC), ball placement (B/P), singulation 
(S/G), lead scanner inspection (L/S), and final vision (F/V). 
 
 
Figure 1: Assembly process for IC assembly house 
 5
 
Figure 2: Operations and information flow for IC assembly houses 
 
3.3 Problem diagnosis for IC assembly house 
During the entire IC assembly process, the wafer receiving procedure and the material 
inventory transaction procedure are diagnosed as the most labor-intensive and erratic 
operations. 
3.3.1 The wafer receiving problem  
In order to streamline the entire IC assembly process, receivers need to input all 
necessary order data into the management information system during receiving process. 
Figure 3 displays the wafer receiving process. For most IC assembly houses, receivers 
need to visually identify the attached label and packing list for collecting the order 
information. If the collected data are not accurate or perfect, the incorrect data will result 
in IC assembly problems and cause huge waste and penalty. There are at least three 
operations in receiving process that may produce errors, including checking and 
accepting delivery documents, carrying documents and processing collected data.  
 
 7
 9
4.1 RFID technology 
Radio-frequency identification (RFID) is an automatic identification method, relying on 
storing and remotely retrieving data using devices such as RFID tags, RFID readers, and 
middleware. RFID systems consist of three components: 1. A small electronic data 
carrying device called a transponder, or a tag that is attached to the item to be identified. 
2. A reader or a scanner that communicates with the tag by using radio frequency signals. 
3. A host data processing system that contains information on the identified item and 
distributes information to other data processing systems. RFID tags have three general 
varieties: passive, semi-passive, and active. Passive RFID tags have no internal power 
supply. The minute electrical current induced in the antenna by the incoming radio 
frequency signal provides enough power for the IC in the tag to power up and transmit a 
response. Active RFID tags have their own internal power source which is used to power 
any ICs that generate the outgoing signal.   
A RFID reader consists of antenna module, digital module, and radio-frequency module. 
The antenna module is used to transmit or receive radio-frequency signals. The digital 
module is used to process protocol signals in tags. The radio-frequency module performs 
two functions. One is to provide power supply for tags via radio frequency signals and the 
other is to emit data by way of load modulation technique.  
RFID middleware is designed for the processing of data received from RFID readers. The 
middleware can perform several functions such as collection, filtering, and computation of 
data in tags. Also, the middleware can transmit information to other information service 
platform or application software systems.   
4.2 RosettaNet network 
RosettaNet is a business protocol that enables enterprises to overcome the barriers to 
conduct business over the Internet by establishing a global language for e-business. The 
goals of RosettaNet focus on the supply chain and its optimization by improving efficiency 
and performance through enhanced integration. RosettaNet provides a platform of 
communication that allows the different trading partners involved in a business to 
automate that process and to conduct it over the Internet.  
The RosettaNet standards aim to facilitate speed, efficiency, and reliability to enable 
greater collaboration and communication between trading partners. The standards cover 
the core areas of partner interface processes (PIP), the RosenttaNet implementation 
framework (RNIF), and RosettaNet business dictionary (RNBD). PIPs can be defined as 
the choreography and message content exchanged with trading partners. Each PIP 
specification is composed of business operation view, functional service view, and 
 
Figure 5: Functional flow diagram for the electronic receiving module 
 
Figure 6 shows the functional flow diagram for the inventory transaction module. The 
inventory transaction module mainly deals with demand for accounting entry information, 
request for inventory transaction form, and processing for replenishment and transaction 
record. This module consists of three types of data file. The first type is the ERP basic 
data file containing parts data file and bill of material (BOM). The second type is 
customized ERP data file that contains rules of generating series number for receipts, 
accounting headings for assembly stations, order information, and scheduling information. 
The last type is supplementary data file containing accounting headings for parts 
classification and request information for inventory transaction.  The entire transaction 
process provided by the module consists of three procedures. In the first procedure, 
material requirement to be released is estimated by combining order information file, 
BOM, and scheduling data file. The resulting information, such as released items, 
quantity, and assembly station, is stored and displayed in the inventory transaction 
application file. In the second procedure, request for receiving or returning items is 
prepared and input into the subsystem via customized interfaces. The module links the 
request information to the parts classification, accounting headings, and workstations.  
The final procedure is processing of system accounts and records. Using the customized 
inventory transaction interface, operators can access the complete request data from 
procedures 1 and 2 and produce transaction data.  These transaction data are then 
batch-processed through ERP inventory management module.   
 
 11
system, and operation process schedule, and decide interfaces for demand processing, 
data conversion, scope of customization, and scheduling. 
4. Build: Construct test environments for checking each function and accomplish 
interfaces for demand processing, data conversion, and customized modules. 
5. Documentation: Accomplish reference manuals such as system configuration setup 
documentation, system operation procedure manual, and end user operation manual for 
supporting practical applications. 
6. Transit: Provide end users for training, operational test, preparation of data, and 
system conversion in order to assist organization and users to be familiar with new 
working environment. 
7. Production: Convert to new systems for users to operate the new systems, to track the 
performance of the new systems, and initiate the follow up program.  
 
 
Figure 7: Flowchart for Oracle AIM procedure 
 
The Oracle AIM also provides application kits. The application kits include Oracle Forms 
Developer and Oracle Reports Developer. The Oracle Form developer is used to design 
graphical user interfaces by providing procedural language/structured query language for 
coding. The Oracle Reports developer is used to design report forms and lists for users.   
5.2 Implementation of the electronic receiving module 
The electronic receiving module is implemented using Oracle AIM. The flowchart of 
implementation is shown in Figure 8 and the procedure is described as follows. 
Step 1: Investigate/evaluate client’s demand and draft system implementation plan.  
In this step, the tasks that need to be done include client’s request investigation, request 
scope evaluation, request content confirmation, project team/content/accountability 
development, project objectives development, and project scheduling/budgeting.  
 13
 15
 
The implementation of the electronic receiving module can provide the following 
operational functions. 
1. Clients write ID code into RFID tags for each batch of wafers before shipping.  The 
RFID tags are then attached on wafer shipping cassette for delivery to IC assembly 
houses. 
2. Clients submit ASN information via RosettaNet PIP into the ERP system in IC 
assembly houses. Receivers can access ASN files by linking open database connect 
(ODBC) with ERP database. When scanning RFID tags using RFID reader, receivers can 
check if ASN information is complete. 
3. When wafer shipping cassette arrives at IC assembly houses, receivers visually check 
the package and wafer shipping cassettes to make sure if RFID tags are attached. 
4. Receivers scan and read ID code from RFID tags using RFID reader.  The ID code 
can provide receivers to check if the ASN information for the received wafer is transmitted 
into ERP database. The ASN information includes ID code, Lot No, quantity, Die No, and 
device.  
5. The received ANS information is then used for wafer identification in the following 
operations and inventory database update. The ANS information is key to the electronic 
processing of order release, order status report, and shipping, and to the elimination of 
labor key-in operations. 
5.3 Implementation of the inventory transaction module 
The inventory transaction module is implemented using Oracle AIM. The flowchart of 
implementation is shown in Figure 9 and the associated procedure is described as 
follows. 
Step 1: Initiate system implementation plan. 
The system integration division is responsible for this project, while the warehousing 
division is the user of this module. In this step a project proposal containing team 
members, objectives, budget, detailed items and the associated executors, and schedule 
is proposed. 
Step 2: Investigate operation problems and clarify operation data. 
The tasks in this step include to interview warehouse operators, to record operation 
process, to measure operation time, to realize operators’ demand, to clarify operation 
data, and to clarify operator’s demand for planning solution methods and estimating 
benefits. 
Step 3: Devise solution methods, confirm IT technology, and draft program specification. 
 17
 
4. The record process operators access the inventory transaction database to 
execute record alteration according to the ID code of the request form. 
5.4 Benefit analysis 
The implementation of the electronic receiving module in the IC assembly house can 
reduce the operation time and data input errors for the wafer receiving process. Table 1 
displays the resulting benefit from the employment of the system.  The benefit can be 
resulted from three types of improvement: wafer receiving, clients’ complaint, and penalty. 
For the wafer receiving operation, total transaction time per season reduces from 1,200 
minutes to 120 minutes. The clients’ complaint and penalty is totally eliminated. 
 
Table 1: Benefit of implementing the electronic receiving module 
Type Quantity 
 Before After 
1.Wafer in 240 transactions per season * 5 
minutes/transaction = 1,200 minutes
240 transactions per season * 
0.5 minutes/transaction = 120 
minutes  
2.Client’s 
complaint 
2 counts/season 0 count/season 
3.Penalty $1,250,000/season $0/season 
 
The implementation of the inventory transaction module reduces the operation time for 
inventory transaction process. Table 2 shows the resulting benefit from the deployment of 
the module. The benefit can be resulted from six types of improvement: request 
generation for released materials, record processing for released materials, request 
generation for picking items, record processing for picking items, summarized report 
generation for stock-in, and internal complaint. The operation time is reduced from 618 
hours to 463 hours for request generation of released materials, from 152 hours to 114 
hours for record processing of released materials, from 45 hours to 31 hours for request 
generation of picking items, from 330 hours to 165 hours for record processing of picking 
items, and from 128 hours to 77 hours for summarized report generation of stock-in, 
respectively. The internal complaint is totally eliminated.  
 
 
 
 19
2.Inventory management 1. Upgrade of systematic and electronic capability 
3.Warehousing 1. Reduction of operator’s workload. 
2. Increase of productivity. 
3. Increase of accuracy and speed for information. 
 
6. Conclusions 
The capability to obtain efficiency and accuracy is an important factor for gaining 
competency in the IC assembly industry. In this study, RFID technology is applied to 
improve production efficiency for IC assembly houses. Firstly, the IC assembly process is 
analyzed. The wafer receiving procedure and the material inventory transaction 
procedure are diagnosed as the most labor-intensive and erratic operations. Next, a 
framework of electronic material flow control system is developed by integrating RFID 
technology, RosettaNet network and ERP system. The Oracle AIM methodology is used 
to implement the proposed system in a local IC assembly house. The developed system 
provides two modules: the electronic receiving module and the inventory transaction 
module.  
Results from this study suggest that the electronic receiving module can be used to 
improve the problems of check and accept operation, document carrying operation, and 
stock-in record processing, while the inventory transaction module can be used to deal 
with demand for accounting entry information, request for inventory transaction form, and 
processing for replenishment and transaction record.  The manual operation time for 
wafer-in process is reduced and clients’ complaints and penalty are eliminated after the 
implementation of the electronic material flow control system. Manual key-in operations 
are mostly replaced by electronic and paperless operations in the inventory transaction 
process.  Hence, labor loadings and operation costs for IC assembly houses are greatly 
reduced. 
 
References 
[1] Chow K.H., Choy K.L., Lee W.B., Lau K.C., Design of a RFID Case-Based Resource 
Management Systems for Warehouse Operations, Expert Systems with Applications, 
2006, 30(4), 561-576. 
[2] Hou J.L., Huang C.H., Quantitative Performance Evaluation of RFID Applications in 
the Supply Chain of the Printing Industry, Industrial Management and Data Systems, 
2006, 106(1), 96-120.  
 21
[15] Toiruul B., Lee H., Lee Y., Kim D., Lee K, Design and Implementation of a Ubiquitous 
Agricultural Supply Chain Management System, WSEAS Transactions and 
Computers, 2007, 6(2), 275-282. 
[16] Weinstein R., RFID: A Technical Overview and Its Application to the Enterprise, IT 
Professional, 2005, 7(3), 27-33.  
[17] Wu Y.C., Chen J.X., RFID Application in a CVS Distribution Center in Taiwan: A 
Simulation Study, International Journal of Manufacturing Technology and 
Management, 2007, 10(1), 121-135. 
 
 
 
 2
目前國內協同生產與服務系統技術領域，大致上可分為以傳統製造業為主之製造生
產､以電子業為主之運籌管理以及以網際網路為主之產業電子化等類型。表面上這些不同
類型之行業在實務上似乎沒有任何關連或相通之處，然而從學理的角度來分析，卻可以歸
納出相當多的雷同，可發現這些不同類型的行業，皆面臨相當多的類似問題，如快速顧客
反應､縮短訂單週期時間､各種商情資訊之共享與應用､資訊網路的應用、產業電子化之
推動等。因此許多傳統之經營理念與技術，經過不斷的在實務上嘗試檢驗與淘汰。為加速
管理 
一、 參加會議經過 
第19屆生產研究國際性會議是由智利Valparaiso天主教大學與聖地牙哥大學於2007年7
月29日至8月03日在智利Valparaiso城市舉行。共有來自40多國家200多位學者參加此次會
議，一共發表285篇研討會論文。大會在5天的議程中一共安排60場發表會。 
由於智利政府近年來受到國際天然資源價格高漲，當地所出產的銅礦、紙漿、木材、
養殖魚類等出口價格成長迅速，帶動經濟發展相當快速，不但引起世界各國政府之注目，
也受到學術界的重視。因此將此次會議的主題與內容設定為「突出經濟體系中之協同生產
與服務系統之建立」，大會中廣邀學術界著名學者與企業界專家蒞臨發表主題演講，會議
中所發表之論文也能針對目前各方所重視之生產與服務系統之整合運用，多所著墨，獲益
良多。 
二、與會心得 
這次會議是由智利 Valparaiso 天主教大學與聖地牙哥大學所舉辦的 2007 第十九屆生產
研究國際學術會議，本次大會主要目的是提供論壇場合將整合生產與服務系統之理論與實
務共處一堂互相交流激發，共同創出新的內涵。大會的主題是協同整合，會議的內容是指
向全球化與系統化，大會所預期達成的結果是整合生產與服務系統之新構思、新邏輯、新
內涵及新的鑑賞能力。會議的焦點是針對生產與服務系統之整合過程所需之資訊科技、網
際網路、資訊系統及組織發展等應用。其主旨乃為在二十一世紀來臨之際，許多學者專家
正為資訊科技快速發展之良機，思索如何進一步將生產與服務系統結合這種科技與趨勢，
發展出更輝煌之成果。尤其是在全球傳播科技日新月異之際，如何透過全球網路通訊科技
來加強各國之間的科技合作與交流，是一件刻不容緩之課題。 
 
協同生產與服務系統學術領域之崛起，不論是在國內或國外，不過是最近一､二十年
的事情，基本上是肇因於自由市場的興起､私營企業規模不斷的擴張､企業經營策略的不
斷求新求變、與全球化之趨勢而形成的一門領域。從早期傳統的生產製造轉型成企業系統
管理及至目前以資訊通訊科技和網際網路為基礎的協同生產與服務系統之領域。雖然如
此，協同生產與服務系統的理論與技術仍然不斷的受到興起中的趨勢發展要素，包括顧
客、電子化服務、組織文化、員工、企業科技與一般科技之衝擊，而試圖力求銳變，這一
切的發展將會隨著資訊通訊產業突飛猛進、網際網路的盛行、和企業競爭壓力而不斷進
展，因此在學術界過去幾年所倡導的協同生產與服務系統理論與方法，都需要經過多次的
檢討修正或甚至被揚棄。 
 
目前協同生產與服務系統技術領域在智利的學術界或實務界都有相當快速的進展，透
過整個電子化電腦與工業工程技術，特別是藉助資訊通訊科技與電子商務的推展而達成新
的成就。另一方面又考慮到土耳其在國情､民情､商情的不同，設法依其特性之不同，設
計出多種不同的電腦與工業工程經營模式，特別是資訊通訊基礎建設之完備、網際網路基
礎建設之普及、政府組織之再造、與民間企業電子化之推動，乃促成土耳其整體國民生產
毛額之躍進與快速成長。  
 
