1台灣的製藥資料專屬權在創新與限制競爭之探討
（pharmaceutical data exclusivity in the context of innovation and restrictive
competition）
摘要
資料專屬權是當前很多人非常感興趣的議題，它係在專利保護以外，另外提供了一定期限之市
場獨佔權，其實施將會造成延緩學名藥上市之結果。本研究乃旨在應用法律經濟分析的方法來協助
企業認清資料專屬權在價值創造的角色，研究結果顯示：隨著資料專屬權保護水準的提升，就需要
花費更多的藥品費用與增加健保成本之負擔；反之，任何嘗試降低資料專屬權保護水準的企圖，亦
只會使社會的效益減少程度大於所省下的成本。也就是說對社會而言，其最適行為並非是完全清除
學名藥的生存空間，換另一種說法，社會的最適點應該容許且適度保留學名藥的發展空間，以可能
的競爭市場來矯正此類壟斷市場缺失的公共政策，以尋求適當之調和，使其在原開發藥廠之福利最
大和追求社會成本最小的過程中，取得最適的均衡點，促進競爭。
Key word: 資料專屬權、反競爭、法律經濟分析、研發痛苦指數。
Abstract
Data exclusivity is an issue that many people are much concerned about. It grants marketing
exclusivity that is effective within a specific term in addition to patent protection. The enforcement of
marketing exclusivity will suspend the time to market for generics. The study is designed to assist
corporations in identifying the role of data exclusivity in value creation by applying the law and economic
analysis approach. According to the study results: following the elevation of data exclusivity protection
level, it requires more expenses for medication charge and healthcare costs; in contrast, any attempt to
lower such a level will only lead to social benefits deducted larger than the cost saved. Namely, for
society, the optimum behavior is not to eliminate the development space of generics. In another words, it
is optimal for society to allow and reserve a proper development space for generics. With the competition
market, we can rectify the defects of public policies that foster such a monopoly to reach an optimum
equilibrium and facilitate a competitive environment.
Key word: data exclusivity; anti-competitive; law and economic analysis; misery index of R&D.
I Preface
Knowledge underlies the creation of value. Successfully utilizing the knowledge contributes to
the progress of society. Prior to commercialization of knowledge, a corporation needs to know the value
that the knowledge brings about. After processing and analysis, data will become into useful information,
which can be turned into valuable knowledge through the processes of review and classification; and the
knowledge may transform the corporation into a smart enterprise, create profits, reduce costs, increase
competitiveness, and develop tangible or intangible assets. Knowledge in business is manifested as
intellectual capital, which includes human capital, structural capital, intellectual assets and intellectual
property (Frances Hanks, 2004). "Intellectual property" means all statutory and other proprietary rights in
respect of human inventions. The completeness of the protection of intellectual property rights reflects the
civilization of the country. A more civilized country emphasizes more the importance of the protection of
intellectual property rights. On the other side, the patent system gives the inventor the exclusive privilege
to use his/her invention in exchange of disclosure to the public, which will enhance economic
development. Thus, a format of "legal monopoly" is therefore created. Undoubtedly, the intellectual
property rights are established to encourage invention, development new products, and invent new
methods. The advantage, however, is always challenged in both academic circles and practical areas:
what are the reasons for legal protection of the intellectual property rights? In which ways should the
intellectual property rights be protected legally? What is the relation between Fair Trade Law and
protection of the intellectual property rights, and what are the pros and cons of application in practice?
3accordance with justice. Regulations, which allow the owner of the data exclusivity to abuse his/her right to
file a complaint and make use of criminal investigation rights to strike at his/her competitors, will incur
unfair competition in the market and go against the purposes of encouraging invention of new medications,
pursuing the minimum social cost and maintaining the competition order, and will also have adverse
impacts on Taiwan’s biomedical development. Therefore, it is necessary to include in this paper a thorough 
discussion on regulations governing data exclusivity to seek the most appropriate solution.
II An economic analysis of law and its theoretical basis
Recently pharmaceutical firms from Europe, the US and Japan have paid much attention to the issue
concerning data exclusivity and tried to persuade the Department of Health (of Taiwan) through Taiwan’s 
worldwide delegation offices, suggesting Taiwan to establish such a mechanism for upgrading Taiwan’s 
pharmaceutical industry and solicitation of foreign investment in Taiwan (Boyce, 2004). Moreover, in
order to resume the bilateral negotiation of the Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA)
between Taiwan and the US that has been suspended since 1998, and make the Free Trade Agreement
(FTA) with the US, Taiwan places the data exclusivity on new drugs as one of the "bargaining chips" for
negotiation of the FTA with the US (Special 301 Report, 2004). The amendment to Pharmaceutical
Affairs Act is regarded as a response to the protection of data exclusivity that the US and European
countries are deeply concerned.
According to the amendment draft of Articles 40-1 and 40-2 of Pharmaceutical Affairs Act
(Taiwan), it is explained that "the US and European countries consider that the previous new drug
application system is incomplete and unable to be adapted to current international situations, and suggest
the amendment based on the following reasons: (1) under an identical standard, Taiwan's regulations
governing clinical trial reports are more lenient than those stipulated by EU, resulting in a lower access
threshold to new drug applications for local pharmacists as well as less protection of the originators of
new drugs; (2) to prevent unfair competition, the Department of Health should avoid disclosing to other
competitors the information pertaining to clinical trials submitted by the originators; (3) with only a little
charge, generic pharmacists can acquire the achievements developed by the originators, which would
baffle the incentive for encouraging new drug development". Moreover, the Legislative Yuan passed the
amendment to Pharmaceutical Affairs Act on January 30, 2005, which expressly provided that within five
years after the issuance of a license for new drug of new molecular entity, any other pharmaceutical firm
shall not apply for evaluation and registration of the same items by citing the data submitted by the
licensee without such licensee’s authorization.After three years of the issuance of a license for new drug
of new molecular entity, other pharmaceutical firm may apply for registration of drugs of the same
substance, the same dosage form, the same dose, and the same dose unit according to this Act and related
laws or regulations; the drug license may be issued on the next day to the expiration of five years after the
issuance of license to such new drug of new molecular entity. These provisions are mostly consistent with
the regulation set forth in Paragraph 5, Article 19 of Fair Trade Act, "no enterprise may lessen
competition or impede fair competition by acquiring the secret of production and sales, information
concerning trading counterparts or other technology related secret of any other enterprise by coercion,
inducement with interest, or other improper means". Alternatively, Taiwan's pharmacists treat these as
"stupid" provisions that force them to fall into the trap of Lose-Win; criticizing that these provisions are
not favorable to Taiwan's new drug development nor do they constitute an incentive to foreign investment
initiatives in Taiwan. To make matter worse, these seemingly deteriorate the health insurance's financial
status and are helpless to Free Trade Agreement (FTA) between Taiwan and the US.
To demonstrate the important and specific characteristics of controversial issues pertaining
to ”Amendment to Pharmaceutical Afairs Law on data exclusivity”, policy and statutory bases and
relevant paper references are introduced in this section. Based on the introduction, we may conduct an
analytic comparison on the influences of the amendment over Taiwan's pharmacists, such as medication
development, drug costs and operating performance, etc. For further acknowledgement of the merits or
demerits of the amendment, the analyses of policy and statutory bases are presented as follows.
1. Regulations governing unfair competition
The TRIPS expressly states that each member country's authority should protect the data
confidentiality. According to the Article 39.3 of the WTO "Agreement on Trade-related Aspects of
5right should also be regulated by the antitrust law and anti-abuse rules (Willard & Joshua, 1998).
For this reason, we have to ensure the overall economic interest larger than the interest of
restrictive competition. Thus, it is proven that discussions about the sensibility of the competition
rule and its behavior by an economic analysis approach will help maintain effective competition in
the market.
(4) The economic science advocates that perfect competition brings about productive efficiency and
allocative efficiency. In fact, to avoid drastic competition or seek improper interests, some
corporations may take extreme measures, such as lawsuits, lobbying, and other restrictive or unfair
actions, and thus generate a distorted competition type, deterring the market from maximizing its
intrinsic efficiency. This will cause negative effects to economic development but also damage the
rights of consumers.
From this point of view, a nation should take countermeasures in response to any actions that may
destroy perfect competition and damage the market economic system. The nation's authority should also
prevent any business entity from baffling, distorting and shrinking the perfect comparative rules regarding
economic activities in every possible manner. Nonetheless, no matter in which way the competition
policy is directed, an existed effective competitive market represents that the competitor will enjoy more
monopolization -- producing more goods at lower prices; hence, the foregoing policy is more favorable to
ordinary consumers in average, as viewed from an economic perspective.
III Presumption pharmaceutical data exclusivity
in the context of innovation and restrictive competition
The patent right is an exclusive intangible property right granted in accordance with applicable laws.
Featuring the characteristics of legal monopoly, the patent right is created to encourage human inventions
and promote human welfare. Alternatively, the competition rule is designed to protect legal interests by
upholding the competition order of the market, e.g. opposing the abuse of monopoly, forbidding
restrictive competition, and eliminating unfair competition to protect the rights of consumers. Based on
the consideration, the US Congress passed the Sherman Antitrust Act to establish and facilitate a
competitive, free enterprise system and protect the system against complicity of some corporations or an
alliance, by blocking the monopoly of large conglomerates and illegal restrictive competition (Troesken,
1995). In Taiwan, the term "competition" is defined in Articles 4 and 5 of Fair Trade Law: the term
"competition" as used in this law means any conduct of one enterprise to contest trading opportunities in
the same market with one or more enterprises through offering more favorable price, quantity, quality,
service or any other terms; and the term "monopolistic enterprise" as used in this law means any
enterprise that faces no competition or has a dominant position to enable it to exclude competition in a
relevant market. Two or more enterprises shall be deemed monopolistic enterprises if they do not in fact
engage in price competition with each other and them as a whole have the same status as the enterprise
defined in the provisions of the preceding paragraph. Therefore, "perfect competition" refers to a situation
where a business entity pursuing profits may conduct economic activities free from interference; it is an
indispensable factor to maintain a free, economic market for modern economic development.
In fact, to avoid drastic competition or seek improper interests, some corporations may take extreme
measures, such as restrictive competition or other unfair approaches, to generate a different competition
types. Such deeds breaching the competitive order and destroying perfect competition always restrain the
market economic entity from developing the maximum effects, which results in adverse impacts on
economic development and causes harm to the rights of consumers. Principally, competition behaviors
are worthy of encouragement; but, if political forces involve in the amendment to the law, regardless of
restrictions on price, increased pharmaceutical data exclusivity or additional R&D terms and conditions,
the public, namely the purchasers, may consider it a damage as they may possibly buy a specific goods at
a higher price or enjoy fewer chances of purchase. In brief, if the behavior results in efficiency greater
than anti-competitive efficiency, the amendment will be deemed as pro-competitive rather than
anti-competitive, because efficiency is the core of economic theories. So it is suggested that the
competition rule governing the industry's competition is the outcome resulted from enhanced efficiency
for balanced industry and the conflict between the economic and the public interests.
From an economic effect viewpoint, infringement is a fundamental factor for determining the
7Figure 1 The optimal choice for a consumer
From Figure 1, M denotes the optimal point with the maximum utility under the income constraint. No
matter in which way the budget line I is shifted, the indication means the increased expenditure following
the reinforced protection level of data exclusivity, or the decreased expenditure following the reduced
protection level of data exclusivity, for the consumer. To further depict the decision behavior regarding the
utility maximization; at first we presume that the decision maker selects a desired term of data exclusivity
that satisfies his/her utility; next, he/she has to decide whether the term of data exclusivity can maximize
his/her utility under the constraint. Provided that the decision maker plans to slightly increase the original
test data protection level, then an additional cost will be accompanied by the reinforced protection measures,
which is unfavorable to consumers, called "marginal cost"; however, there will be some benefits that the
decision maker intends to maximize, the additional benefit accompanied by the reinforced protection level
of the test data will be favorable to consumers, which is called "marginal benefit". As a result, as long as
the marginal benefit is greater than the marginal cost under the new test data protection level, the decision
maker will make a new choice for selecting test data protection level to enjoy higher utility of the new test
data protection level, in comparison with the original test data protection level; as long as the added
marginal unit leads to a marginal benefit greater than the marginal cost, he/she will continue the foregoing
process to reinforce the test data protection level until the last added marginal unit is equal to (or less than)
the marginal cost, and the test data protection level that maximizes the decision maker's utility can be
yielded.
Figure 2 The optimal data exclusivity for society
Figure 2 presents the protection level in respect to the utility maximization under the constraint applied
M0
M1
M2
U2
I2
x1 x2
y2
y1
0 x
y
U0
I1
U1 I0
MC = MB
100%P
＊
＄
Marginal cost (MC) for the
reinforced protection level of test
data
Marginal benefit (MB) for the
reinforced protection level of
test data
Reinforced test data protection Data protection
Data protection0
9which means that an enterprise should not use "improper" means to obtain or retain its monopoly status,
even though it does not gain the monopoly interests with the status, and even though the monopoly status
is obtained legally but the status is used to deter or baffle competition. Thus, any actions that may be
sufficient to destroy the fair competition order and impair other business entities' fair competition subject
to the constraint of "data exclusivity" should be properly eliminated.
References
[1]Bardhan, Pranab. Law and Economics in the Tropics: Some Reflections. International Review of Law
& Economics 2005; 25: 65-74.
[2]Boyce, J. The Data Game. The European Chamber of Commerce Taipei; 2004,
http://www.ecct.com.tw/publications/index.php(16.9.2005)
[3]Brook K. Baker & Health GAP, USTR's 2004 Special 301 Report Highlights the U.S.'s Global
Ambition to Use Heightened Protection of Innovators' Drug Registration Data to Block and Delay
Registration of Competing Generic Drugs. May 4, 2004.
[4]Clark, Anne Marie & Berven, Heidi, The face of the patent is not the “Whole Story”: determining 
effective life of a pharmaceutical patent in the United States. World Patent Information 2004; 26(4):
283-295.
[5]Cooter, R. & Ulen, T.(2000), Law and Economics. Addison-Wesley, Third Edition.
[6]Fosfuri, Andrea; Rønde, Thomas. High-tech clusters, technology spillovers, and trade secret laws.
International Journal of Industrial Organization Volume: 22, Issue: 1, January, 2004, pp. 45-65.
[7]Gerber, D. Law and Competition in Twentieth Century Europe: Protecting Prometheus 1998, Clarendon
Press, Oxford.
[8]Hanks, Frances, Intellectual property and price discrimination: a challenge for Australian competition
law. Information Economics and Policy 2004; 16: 113–134.
[9]Markides, C. Strategic Innovation in Established Companies, Sloan Management Review 1998; Spring:
31-42.
[10]Rubenstein, A. H. Trends in technology management revisited. IEEE Transactions on Engineering
Management 1994; 41(4): 335-341.
[11]Simmons E. S. & Spahl, B. D. Of submarines and interference: legal status changes following citation
of an earlier US patent application under 35 USC x 102 (e). World Patent Information 2000; 22(3):
191–203.
[12]Tarng, M. Y., P. Y. Chu, and J. S. Hon, Acers’ Global Logistics and Innovation: Total Costs 
Perspectives. Asia Academy of Management Journal 1998; 3(1): 57-70.
[13]Troesken, Werner, Antitrust Regulation before the Sherman Act: The Break-up of the Chicago Gas
Trust Company. Explorations in Economic History 1995; 32(1): 109-136.
[14]Willard K. Tom & Joshua A. Newberg, U.S. Enforcement Approaches to the Antitrust-Intellectual
Property Interface. in Robert D. Anderson & Nancy T. Gallini (ed.), Competition Policy and Intellectual
Property in the Knowledge-Based Economy 1998;p 345.
11
可供推廣之研發成果資料表
□ 可申請專利 ■ 可技術移轉 日期：96 年 10 月 30 日
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱：台灣的製藥資料專屬權在創新與限制競爭之探討
計畫主持人：林玉華
計畫編號：NSC 95－2221－E－164－015 學門領域：服務系統
技術/創作名稱 台灣的製藥資料專屬權在創新與限制競爭之探討
發明人/創作人 林玉華
中文：
資料專屬權是當前很多人非常感興趣的議題，它係在專利保護以
外，另外提供了一定期限之市場獨佔權，其實施將會造成延緩學名
藥上市之結果。本研究乃旨在應用法律經濟分析的方法來協助企業
認清資料專屬權在價值創造的角色，研究結果顯示：隨著資料專屬
權保護水準的提升，就需要花費更多的藥品費用與增加健保成本之
負擔；反之，任何嘗試降低資料專屬權保護水準的企圖，亦只會使
社會的效益減少程度大於所省下的成本。也就是說對社會而言，其
最適行為並非是完全清除學名藥的生存空間，換另一種說法，社會
的最適點應該容許且適度保留學名藥的發展空間，以可能的競爭市
場來矯正此類壟斷市場缺失的公共政策，以尋求適當之調和，使其
在原開發藥廠之福利最大和追求社會成本最小的過程中，取得最適
的均衡點，促進競爭。
技術說明
英文：
Data exclusivity is an issue that many people are much concerned
about. It grants marketing exclusivity that is effective within a specific
term in addition to patent protection. The enforcement of marketing
exclusivity will suspend the time to market for generics. The study is
designed to assist corporations in identifying the role of data
exclusivity in value creation by applying the law and economic
analysis approach. According to the study results: following the
elevation of data exclusivity protection level, it requires more expenses
for medication charge and healthcare costs; in contrast, any attempt to
lower such a level will only lead to social benefits deducted larger than
the cost saved. Namely, for society, the optimum behavior is not to
eliminate the development space of generics. In another words, it is
optimal for society to allow and reserve a proper development space
for generics. With the competition market, we can rectify the defects of
public policies that foster such a monopoly to reach an optimum
equilibrium and facilitate a competitive environment.
可利用之產業
及
可開發之產品
可利用之產業：研發型藥廠、生技產業、藥廠、知識企業、主管機
關(駐外經貿代表、衛生署、立法單位)。
可開發之產品：智慧財產權、專利制度、公平交易法、資料專屬權。
