研究計畫中英文摘要：
（一） 計畫中文摘要。
關鍵詞：光子晶體、四方晶格、光子能隙、彎曲波導、吸收邊界條件
中文摘要：
本研究主要是關於二維光子晶體二倍密四方晶格九十度彎曲波導之分析與設計。我們
將傳統四方晶格每個晶格中央插入介電柱，成為二倍密四方晶格結構。在我們所設計的多
種九十度彎曲波導中，分別利用波導對稱性、色散曲線波向量、以及傳統光學元件反射原
理設計而成。
在分析方法上，我們利用平面波展開法計算光子能隙，再利用時域有限差分法模擬光
場在元件中傳播情形，再利用高斯脈衝法分析元件傳輸率和反射率，再搭配邊界吸收條件
來增加分析上的準確率。
由分析結果得知，我們所提出的二維光子晶體二倍密四方晶格九十度彎曲波導，具有
元件結構簡單，寬頻並高傳輸等特性。
（二） 計畫英文摘要。
Keywords: photonic crystal, cubic lattice, band gap, waveguide bend, absorbing boundary
conditions
Abstract:
This project is about design and analysis of 90-degree waveguide bends in two
dimensional double dense cubic photonic crystals. Dielectric rods are inserted at the centers of
conventional cubic lattice photonic crystals to double the density of rods. For the proposed bends,
symmetry of waveguide mode, dispersion curves, and reflection mirror are used for design.
To analyze the device characteristics, we use plane expansion method to calculate the band
gaps. The finite-difference time-domain method is used to simulate the propagation of optical
wave in proposed devices. Finally, we use Gauss-pulse method and absorbing boundary
conditions to calculate the transmission coefficients.
Simulation results show that the proposed 90-degree bends in two dimensional double dense
cubic photonic crystals have the advantages of simple structures and wide high-transmission
bandwidths.
DESIGN AND SIMULATIONS
The bent waveguide shown in Fig.1 (a) is a
traditional design having acceptable
transmission for some frequencies within the
band gap of the photonic crystals. The input
and output waveguides are denoted along the
(01) and (10) directions, respectively. The
input and output waveguides are connected by
a short waveguide section along the (11)
direction. The structure in Fig.1 (a) is one of
the bends proposed in [2]. However, the (11)
waveguide itself is not symmetric. We
extended the (11) waveguide in Fig.1 (a) as a
long straight line-defect waveguide and then
the FDTD simulation was performed. We
found that the optical wave propagating within
the (11) waveguide has a zigzag path.
Therefore, the guiding modes of the (11)
waveguide should be more complicated than
those of symmetric waveguides such as (10)
or (01) waveguides.
The lattice constant a in Fig.1 (a) is 1 m
and the rod’s radius r is 0.18m. That means
the r/a ratio is set to be 0.18. The refractive
index of dielectric rod is 4.3 and the index of
background is unity. The polarization of light
wave is TM wave. Under these parameters,
the transmission and reflection spectrum of
the traditional bend is simulated and shown in
Fig.2. The transmission efficiency is only 91%
when the normalized frequency (f=a/2c) is
0.42.
Fig.2 The transmission and reflection spectrums of
the traditional PBG bend. The PBG bend structure is
shown at the upper left corner.
Fig.3 (a) The normal 2D cubic lattice photonic
crystals. (b) The dash circles indicate the positions
where new rods are inserted. (c) The double density
lattice photonic crystals.
In this paper, we proposed a 90-degree bend
waveguide with a density doubled lattice
structure modified from the traditional bend in
Fig.1 (a). The way to double the density of
rods is shown in Fig.3. Rods are added at the
center of every square cell. The normal cubic
lattice photonic crystals has a TM band gap
which extends from f=a/=0.30 to f=0.44.
However, the double density lattice photonic
crystals has a different TM band gap which
has a range from f=0.25 to f=0.35.
After modifying the lattice type from
normal 2D cubic lattice (Fig.3 (a)) into the
double density lattice (Fig.3(c)), the
traditional waveguide bend (Fig.1) becomes a
double density bend as shown in Fig.4. Unlike
the traditional bend in Fig.1, the double
density bend has symmetric waveguides for
(01), (10), and (11) waveguide sections.
Therefore, the guiding modes of the three
sections will have similar lateral field profile.
The transmission and reflection spectrum of
the bend in Fig.4 is simulated and the result is
shown in Fig.5. The Transmission curve in
Fig.4 is flat with respect to that in Fig.2. The
transmission efficiency is about 94%1% for
f=0.27 to f=0.31.
The dispersion relations for the (10) and (11)
line-defect waveguides in Fig.1 (b) is obtained
by the plane wave expansion method. From
Fig.5, we can see that the (10) waveguide
supports two guiding modes but the (11)
waveguide supports single mode. The (11)
waveguide in Fig.1 (b) is a W2 line-defect
0.265 to 0.30. The high transmission
frequency range is useful for WDM
technology in fiber communication systems.
CONCLUSIONS
We proposed a design of broadband
90-degree bend in two dimensional cubic
photonic crystals. The design of the proposed
PBG bend is achieved by double the density
of rods first and then deleting one line of rods
in the (11) waveguide. The simulation results
show that the proposed PBG bend has
transmission efficiencies greater than 99% for
the frequency range from f=0.265 to f=0.30.
REFERENCES
[1] J. D. Joannopoulos et al., Photonic crystals:
molding the flow of light, Princeton University
Press, Princeton(1995)
[2] A. Mekis, J. C. Chen, I. Kurland, S. Fan, P. R.
Villeneuve, and J. D. Joannopoulos, " High
Transmission through Sharp Bends in Photonic
Crystal Waveguides," Physical Review Letters, 77,
No. 18, 3787-3790 (1996).
[3] J. Smajic, C. Hafner, and D. Erni, " Design and
Optimization of an Achromatic Photonic Crystal
Bend," Optics Express, 11, No. 12, 1378-1383
(2003).
[4] Y. Naka and H. Ikuno, "Analysis of
Two-Dimensional Photonic Crystal Sharply Bent
Waveguides," 2004 URSI EMTS, International
Symposium On Electromagnetic Theory, 748-750
(2004).
參加「AOE2008 亞洲光纖通訊與光電博覽會及國際會議博覽會」心得報告
電機系 助理教授 林義彬
一、時間：97 年 10 月 31 日至 97 年 11 月 2 日共 3 天
二、地點：中國上海國際世貿博覽中心
三、會議主題：
1. Optical Fibers, Fiber Components and Subsystems.
2. Optoelectronic Devices and Materials.
3. Optical Sensors and Biophotonics.
4. Displays, Solid-State Lighting, and Optoelectronics in Energy
四、議程
參加研討會發表論文
Design of High Transmission Broadband 90-Degree Bend
by Reducing Field Mismatch at Corner
for Two Dimensional Cubic Photonic Crystals
Yih-Bin Lin, Jia-Sheng Lin, Rei-Shin Chen, and Cheng-Ru Li
Department of Electrical Engineering, Lunghwa University of Science and Technology
No. 300, Sec.1, Wanshou Rd., Guishan, Taoyuan County 33306, Taiwan
lebbb@mail.lhu.edu.tw
Abstract: A simple design of 90 degree bend is proposed for cubic photonic crystals. Corner
section of bend is modified to have more symmetric guiding field. The transmission efficiencies
are above 96% for the bandgap spectrum.
©2008 Optical Society of America
OCIS codes: (050.5298) Photonic Crystal; (230.7370) Waveguides
1. Introduction
Photonic crystal[1] structures have attracted a lot of interest recently because of their potential ability to control the
propagation of light within a small area compared to traditional dielectric waveguides. Within various devices and
components, 90-degree waveguide bends are fundamental components in cubic photonic bandgap structures. Some
90-degree bends[2-4] have been proposed for two dimensional cubic photonic crystals. Although Mekis’s work[2]
has a simple design, the transmission efficiencies are not acceptable for some frequencies in the bandgap. In Smajic’s
work[3], the proposed bend is called achromatic because the transmission efficiencies are improved for all the
frequencies within the bandgap. However, the radiuses of rods around the bend corner are different to those of other
rods which makes the design and fabrication to be complicated. In this work, we proposed a simple design without
changing the radiuses or refractive indices of rods around the bend corner.
The bent waveguide shown in Fig. 1 is a traditional design having acceptable transmission for some wavelengths
within the bandgap of the photonic crystals. The input and output waveguides are denoted along the (01) and (10)
directions, respectively. The input and output waveguides are connected by a short waveguide section along the (11)
direction. The structure in Fig.1 is one of the bends proposed in [2]. However, the (11) waveguide itself is not
symmetric. It is clear when we extend the (11) waveguide as a long straight line-defect waveguide and then the
FDTD simulation is performed. The optical wave propagating within the (11) waveguide has a zigzag path as shown
in Fig.2. Therefore, the guiding modes of the (11) waveguide should be more complicated than those of a symmetric
waveguide such as (10) or (01) waveguides. We suppose that mode mismatch between (01) and (11) waveguides
may be one of the significant reasons that decrease the transmission efficiencies for some wavelengths for the bend
in Fig.1. If the guiding mode of (11) waveguide can be modified to be more symmetric, the transmission spectrum of
the bent waveguide will be better.
Fig.1 The traditional (compared) 90-degree bent
waveguide structure. The dash-line rectangle indicates
the (11) waveguide.
Fig.2 FDTD simulation of the (11) waveguide in Fig.1. The
guiding fields shows a zigzag path in propagation.
For the simulation of transmission spectrum, a computation region of 110a×110a is used (Fig.5). The field
amplitude is monitored inside the guide at two points, one before the bend and one after the bend. A Gaussian pulse
is launched into the (01) input waveguide. The reflected pulse and transmitted pulse are recorded respectively. All
the input, reflected, and transmitted pulses are transformed to frequency domain by fast Fourier transform. The
reflection and transmission spectrum are shown in Fig.6 by the reflection and transmitted spectrum divided by the
input spectrum. The simulation results shows that the proposed bend has transmission efficiencies larger than 96.8%
for all frequencies of the bandgap. But the compared bend has transmission efficiencies of about 0.9 while the
normalized frequency (a/2c) is about 0.42. In our simulation, four pulses with different center frequencies are
launched separately. Each of the pulses covers one part of the bandgap spectrum. The whole transmission spectrum
in Fig.6 is then obtained by four segments corresponding to the four input pulses[2].
3. Conclusions
We proposed a design of broadband 90-degree bend in two dimensional cubic photonic crystals. The design of the
proposed bent waveguide is very simple by just adding three rods with the same radius and the same refractive index
into the traditional bending waveguide. The (11) waveguide of the proposed bend has a symmetric-like structure and
therefore a symmetric-like guiding field which reduces the mode mismatch between the (01) and (11) waveguides.
The simulation results show that the proposed bend has transmission efficiencies greater than 96.8% for the whole
bandgap frequencies and is easy to use for other researchers.
4. References
[1] J. D. Joannopoulos et al., Photonic crystals: molding the flow of light, Princeton University Press,
Princeton(1995)
[2] A. Mekis, J. C. Chen, I. Kurland, S. Fan, P. R. Villeneuve, and J. D. Joannopoulos, " High Transmission through
Sharp Bends in Photonic Crystal Waveguides," Physical Review Letters, 77, No. 18, 3787-3790 (1996).
[3] J. Smajic, C. Hafner, and D. Erni, " Design and Optimization of an Achromatic Photonic Crystal Bend," Optics
Express, 11, No. 12, 1378-1383 (2003).
[4] Y. Naka and H. Ikuno, "Analysis of Two-Dimensional Photonic Crystal Sharply Bent Waveguides," 2004 URSI
EMTS, International Symposium On Electromagnetic Theory, 748-750 (2004).
Fig.6 The transmission spectrums of the traditional (compared) and proposed bending waveguide structures.
2. Design and Simulations
Fig. 1 is the structure of the traditional (compared) bending waveguide for two dimensional photonic crystals. The
red circles are dielectric material with refractive index n=3.4 and radius r=0.18 m. The white region between the
red circles are free space with unit refractive index. The dielectric circles are periodically arranged to form
rectangular lattices with period a=1m along both x and z directions. The input waveguide is obtained by removing
one line of dielectric elements and is a singlemode waveguide. Simulation is performed by FDTD method and a
Gaussian beam is launched.
The proposed bent waveguide is designed by adding three rods (black circules) at two sides of the (11)
waveguide as shown in Fig.3. The (11) waveguide of proposed bend has a more symmetric structure and the
guiding field is obtained by the FDTD simulation as shown in Fig.4.
Fig.3 The proposed 90-degree bent waveguide
structure. The dash-line rectangle indicates the (11)
waveguide. Three rods (black circles) are added with
the same radius and refractive indices.
Fig.4 FDTD simulation of the (11) waveguide in Fig.3. The
guiding fields is more symmetric than fields in Fig.1.
Fig.5 Left side of this figure schematically shows the simulation region. The right top panel shows the field amplitude recorded
by the power monitor B. The right bottom panel shows the field amplitude recorded by the power monitor A.
參加「AOE2008 亞洲光纖通訊與光電博覽會及國際會議博覽會」報告
電機系 助理教授 林義彬
一、時間：97 年 10 月 31 日至 97 年 11 月 2 日共 3 天
二、地點：中國上海國際世貿博覽中心
三、會議主題：
1. Optical Fibers, Fiber Components and Subsystems.
2. Optoelectronic Devices and Materials.
3. Optical Sensors and Biophotonics.
4. Displays, Solid-State Lighting, and Optoelectronics in Energy
四、議程
