 2
光伏太陽電池材料多晶銅銦硒薄膜之表面極性和晶界原子結構之研究 
The studies of surface polarity and grain boundary atomic structure of photovoltaic solar cell 
materials polycrystalline CuInSe2 thin films 
 
許禎祥  楊立中* 吳偉立 鄭鈞元 李岳修 
國立虎尾科技大學 材料科學與工程系 
 
 
 
Abstract 
In this study, a series of polycrystalline single-layer 
CulnSe2 thin films with Cu/In atomic ratios between 
1.7 and 0.5 were grown by using a physical vapor 
deposition system Cu and In sputtering and Se 
evaporation. The variation in the microstructure 
(surface morphology, grain size and defects) of the 
CulnSe2 thin films on gradually changing the 
stoichiometry from Cu-rich to Cu-poor was 
investigated using scanning electron microscopy 
(SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). 
In general, Cu-rich thin films showed large grains 
with relatively low defect densities, while Cu-poor 
thin films exhibited highly planar defects, twins and 
stacking faults, with small grains. Polycrystalline 
bi-layer CulnSe2 thin films were also grown by 
depositing a Cu-poor layer on the top of a Cu-rich 
layer. The bi-layer Cu-poor thin films exhibited large 
grains (>3 µm). High-resolution TEM lattice image 
shows a thin coherent layer (~20nm) at the both sides 
of the grain boundary for a slightly Cu-poor film. 
TEM energy dispersive x-ray spectroscopy (EDX) 
analyses indicate that the grain boundary region is 
more Cu-poor than the intra-grain for the slightly 
Cu-poor film. The coherent thin layer and more 
Cu-poor at the grain boundary of the slightly Cu-poor 
film could be related to a type inverse. The surface 
morphologies and the grain boundaries of the 
polycrystalline CuInSe2 could provide an 
understanding of the growth behavior of CuInSe2 and 
the performance of CuInSe2 devices. 
  
1. Introduction 
Considering the limitation of current energy 
resources and their environmental impact, greater 
stress has been placed on the development of 
renewable energy sources such as photovoltaic 
electric generators. Copper indium diselenide 
CuInSe2 (CIS) and related compounds such as 
Cu(InGa)Se2 and Cu(InGa)(SeS)2 are leading 
candidates for absorber materials in large-area 
photovoltaic power generation systems. Devices 
based on Cu(InGa)Se2 have achieved high active area 
efficiencies (19.2%) in small area devices [1]. One of 
the features of the CuInSe2 that is important to 
photovoltaic devices performance is the grain 
boundary and surface stoichiometry as a function of 
composition. The device-quality Cu-poor CuInSe2 
films are observed to display a copper depleted 
surface region [2], and strong Cu-poor CuInSe2 films 
exhibit a defect-ordered surface phase with a 
composition typically found to be Cu1In3Se5 [3]. 
Various electronic measurements have clarified the 
free surfaces and grain boundaries of CuInSe2 films 
exhibit a type inversion, accordingly the surfaces or 
the grain boundary regions become electron rich, 
even though the interior are still hole rich for the 
Cu-poor films [4],[5]. 
Hybrid-process polycrystalline CuInSe2 has 
been demonstrated to be of high quality based on 
materials analyses comparing the resulting layers 
with those deposited by other methods, and by 
fabrication of solar cells. Devices based on 
hybrid-process CuInSe2 containing no Ga and with 
thick, heavily doped CdZnS window layers have 
achieved conversion efficiencies as high as 10.0 % 
[6]. Previous studies using the hybrid method and 
other techniques for deposition of CuInSe2 have 
suggested that disorder (sphalerite structure) [7] and 
ordered vacancies [8] both occur on the metal 
sublattice of non-stoichiometric material. There is 
some indication that the point defect population in 
physical vapor deposited films may vary with 
deposition on the extent of disorder has not been 
examined systematically, particularly in sputtered 
films. For the current work, the extent of chalcopyrite 
ordering in CuInSe2 was examined by SEM and TEM 
as a function of deposition conditions. This paper 
describes the microstructure of surfaces and grain 
boundaries, and the implications of these for device 
performance in CuInSe2 deposited under various 
conditions by the hybrid process. 
 
2. Experimental 
The results presented below were recorded for 
CuInSe2 deposited from magnetron sputtered Cu and 
In fluxes and evaporated molecular Se, described 
previously [9]-[10]. CuInSe2 films were deposited on 
25 × 25 × 1.2 mm, Corning type 7059 borosilicate or 
common soda-lime glass substrates. Deposition was 
carried out at a temperature of 350-500 ºC and a 
deposition rate from 10 to 50 nm/min. The thickness 
of the grown layers was typically ~ 2 µm. Three 
aspects of the film properties were analyzed: 
microstructure, composition, and microchemistry. 
Microstructural studies were carried out using 
transmission electron microscope (TEM, Jeol JEM 
2010) equipped with a microchemical analysis energy 
 4
structure metastable for the slightly Cu-poor film. 
These results are similar with the observations of the 
surface morphologies above. Since (112) is the most 
stable for the Cu-poor films, the planar grain 
boundaries consists of lowest energy (112) planes 
with small size grains. The slightly Cu-rich films 
have relative higher energy planes with all the 
different orientations; therefore the boundaries of the 
Cu-rich are concave. In order to reduce the grain 
boundary energy, the slightly Cu-rich film has large 
size grains. 
Figs. 4(a) and 4(b) are high-resolution electron 
microscopy lattice images taken from the grain 
boundaries of the films identical to Figs. 3. For the 
slightly Cu-rich film in Figs. 4(a), no second 
precipitations are observed at the grain boundary. 
Although the (101) and (103) spots of SADP, 
superlattice reflections due to the 
chalcopyrite-ordering of the cation sublattice, are 
observed but are extremely weak for the slightly 
Cu-rich film deposited at 450℃. The explanation of 
the observations is that the slightly Cu-rich film is 
disordering (sphalerite) and ordering (chalcopyrite) 
phases mixing. To examine the local chemical 
composition, EDX data were taken with a small 
probe size of 10 nm. Preliminary results show that the 
local compositions of the grain boundary [P1 spot in 
Fig. 4(a)] and intra-grain [P2 spot in Fig. 3(a)] are 
Cu-rich and near identical, e.g. the Cu/In peak ration 
is almost the same. For the slightly Cu-poor film 
shown in Fig. 3(b), a thin coherent layers ( ~20nm ) 
are shown at the both sides of the grain boundary. A 
super thin twin (~10 atomic layers thick) is associated 
with the coherent layer. Besides the (101) and (103) 
spots of SADP taken from grain boundary region, 
three weak additional (110), (220) and (114) 
reflections of a defect-ordered phase were observed. 
EDX local chemical compositional analysis reveals 
that both the grain boundary region [P1 spot in Fig. 
3(b)] and the intra-grain [P2 spot in Fig. 3(b)] are 
Cu-poor, however the Cu/In peak ration has a change 
between them. The Cu/In peak ratio is higher in the 
grain boundary region than in the intra-grain. This 
indicates that the grain boundary region is more 
Cu-poor than the intra-grain. The results suggest that 
a thin layer of more Cu-poor defect-ordered phase 
exists at grain boundary in the Cu-poor single layer 
CuInSe2 films. It is also found the distribution of the 
defect-ordered phase at the grain boundary region, 
and the Cu difference between the grain boundary 
region and intra-grain may vary with film preparation. 
In other words, the defect-ordered phase and the 
chemical compositions at the grain boundary vary 
with deposition processes, such as atomic flux rates 
and substrate temperatures.  
The InCu and CuIn antisite defects which are 
responsible for the disordering of the chalcopyrite 
structure are thought to have the lowest formation 
energies, 1.4 eV and 1.5 eV, respectively, of the 
common native point defects in CuInSe2 [16]. It can 
explain the existence of disordering sphalerite and 
ordering chalcopyrite mixing phases in Cu-rich films 
and lower deposition temperatures. First-principles 
theoretical calculations [17]-[20] also show that the 
defect pair (2VCu-1 + InCu+2) in the chalcopyrite 
CuInSe2 has extreme low formation energy (-5.67 
eV/pair). Because of the low formation energy of the 
charge-neutral defect pair 2VCu-1 + InCu+2, actual 
chalcopyrite are highly nonstoichiometric, exhibiting 
microphase made of units of 2VCu-1 + InCu+2 and 
CuInSe2, resulting in Cu1In3Se5, etc. The acceptor 
defects Cu vacancies (VCu) exist at the polar cation 
(112)A surface, while the anion surface (112)B has an 
order-defect reconstruction involving donor defects 
such as anion vacancies or InCu antisites at the 
subsurface. The defect pair related atomic 
configuration at the grain boundary region could play 
an important rule for the performance of the devices. 
Detail examination of the atomic configuration is still 
under investigation in our laboratory.   
 
4. Conclusions 
The microstructure (surface morphology, grain 
size and defects) of the CulnSe2 thin films is a 
function of composition and deposition temperature. 
The boundary curvatures of the slightly Cu-rich and 
the slightly Cu-poor films are different. Some 
boundaries are concave inwards for the Cu-rich film; 
while the boundaries are planar and structure 
metastable for the slightly Cu-poor film. It explains 
that the growth of Cu-rich is isotropic and results in 
large grains, while the Cu-poor is anisotropic growth 
resulting in small grains. High-resolution electron 
microscopy lattice image shows that no second 
precipitations are observed at the grain boundary for 
the slightly Cu-rich film, and a thin coherent layers 
( ~20nm ) are found at the both sides of the grain 
boundary for the slightly Cu-poor film. TEM EDX 
analyses show that the local compositions of the grain 
boundary and intra-grain are Cu-rich and near 
identical for the slightly Cu-rich film, on the other 
hand, it indicates that the grain boundary region is 
more Cu-poor than the intra-grain for the slightly 
Cu-rich film. The coherent thin layer and more 
Cu-poor at the grain boundary of the slightly Cu-poor 
film could be related to a type inverse, therefore the 
grain boundary regions (similar to surface) become 
electron rich, even though the interior are still hole 
rich for the Cu-poor films.   
 
Acknowledgments 
The authors would like to thank the National 
Science Council of the Republic of China under 
contract No. NSC 93-2622-E-150-037-CC3, the 
Ministry of Economic Affairs under contract No. 
95-EC-17-A-08-R7-0769, and Chung-Shan of 
Science and Technology under contract No. 
BV95H07P for the financial supports. 
References 
[1] K. Ramanathan, M. A. Contreras, C. Perkins, S. Asher, F. 
Hasoon, J. Keane, D. Young, M. J. Romero, W. Metzger, R 
