摘要 
企業為應付不確定的需求增加，通常選擇增加庫存以應不時之需，卻往往因為庫存成本不斷的提高，
造成日後競爭力的下降，於是藉上下游廠商間誠信之資訊互動，便產生了供應商管理庫存(Vendor 
Managed Inventory, VMI)之管理方法，本研究希望整合不同的存貨與成本模式，修正並建立現有業
界 VMI的決策機制，並建立兩種量化客製化程度模式，以提供筆記型電腦產業與鋼鐵製品產業執
行 VMI的決策依據，藉由本研究的相關模式，可提供不同產業實施 VMI前後之成本與量化客製化程
度之比較，相關決策數據可作為業者在不同決策之參考，最後討論不同產業所獲得之異同結論與其管
理意涵提供業界參考。 
關鍵詞: 供應商管理庫存,存貨與成本模式,客製化程度模式 
 
Abstract 
Enterprises often increase their inventory to satisfy unexpected demand increases, but the continuous increase 
of inventory costs weakens their future competitiveness. Thus, the vendor managed inventory (VMI) method 
was developed based on the interaction of credible information between the upstream and downstream 
manufacturers. This study aimed to integrate different inventory and cost models, correct and establish the 
current VMI decision mechanism, and construct two quantification models of customization to provide a 
reference for the notebook computer and steel production industries for the implementation of VMI. The 
researched models can provide a comparison of the costs and degrees of quantified customization of different 
industries before and after the implementation of VMI, and relevant policy data can serve as a decision 
reference for enterprises. The differences and similarities of different industries, as well as their management 
implications were discussed, which can provide a reference for related industries.  
Keywords: Vendor Managed Inventory (VMI), Inventory and Cost Model, Degree of Quantified 
Customization 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I 
notebook computer industry before and after VMI implementation because the unit production profit of the 
iron and steel production industry was much higher than that of the notebook computer industry. However, the 
increased amount of profit of the notebook computer industry was higher than that of the iron and steel 
production industry before and after VMI implementation.  
 
4.Conclusion  
     
    In the case of the notebook computer industry, the company showed a great increase in efficiency of 
production schedule management after VMI implementation. Mutual trust between suppliers has a direct 
impact on the production material control department. If VMI material could rely on the time and quantity of 
the Build Plan to purchase materials, the material control personnel would not have to worry about the 
shortage of materials. Without the VMI materials, personnel would encounter the problem of prompting 
suppliers to deliver materials, and both would have differences on management efficiency. After the case 
companies implemented VMI, the efficiency of reducing stock costs is the most important factor, as the 
materials with high unit prices and great price variations are the key components in the notebook computer 
industry, including CPU, DRAM, HD, and Chipsets.  
 
   Their suppliers are famous manufacturers who have seller market advantages and are reluctant to 
cooperate with the case companies in the VMI mechanism. Although the efficiency of reducing stock costs 
was obvious, a great gap existed as compared to the expected efficiency before implementation. The 
production cost was reduced after VMI implementation of the notebook computer industry. Flexibility of 
production and on-time delivery of products was crucial for the efficiency of the high degree of customization 
in the notebook computer industry.  
 
   Demands of the notebook computer industry change quickly. During special times, such as the launch of 
new CPU, price reductions would be introduced to sell the stock of out of date products. For European and 
American suppliers, the orders placed to the case companies were fewer and diversified, and the delivery time 
was short. The flexibility of the VMI mechanism could comply with short-time and diversified orders. In the 
end, the degree of customization and profit of the notebook computer industry increased significantly after the 
implementation of VMI.  
 
    The price of raw materials of the iron and steel production industry has tripled recently, and the average 
gross margin of the case companies was 16%. The average gross margin of suppliers who had implemented 
VMI was higher than the case companies, indicating that VMI could help maintain profitability of the 
companies and suppliers, especially when raw material prices have great variations. The comparison of 
production costs before and after the iron and steel production industry implemented VMI; the production cost 
was reduced after the implementation of VMI. An increase in air freight was related to the quantity of newly 
developed products, and the air freight of suppliers was reduced after participating in VMI.  
 
    A VMI operation model involves upstream and downstream cooperation of the supply chain, and 
implementation encounters difficulty and thresholds, therefore the goal cannot be reached in one step. The 
reduction rate of costs is greater after implementing VMI, and other methods cannot compare to it. For 
traditional industries with a lower possibility of product innovation, the manufactures should seek innovative 
services and management. VMI is one of the optimal approaches for service and management innovation. In 
addition, VMI is an inter-enterprise operation model that requires information sharing of upstream and 
downstream members of the supply chain, integration of inter-enterprise processes, and coordinative 
cooperation.  
 
    The application of VMI can promote inter-enterprise information exchanges and sharing mechanisms, 
and produce integration of inter-enterprise processes and enterprise coordination models, thus, upstream and 
downstream cooperation systems of the supply chain are formed. Through VMI, the whole industry would be 
popularized, and VMI could become an industry operation standard. VMI operation models can strengthen the 
competitiveness of industries.  
 
    The establishment of mutual trust and cooperation systems between upstream and downstream members  
2 
 References 
Bookbinder J H, Gümüş M and Jewkes E M (2010). Calculating the benefits of vendor managed inventory in 
a manufacturer-retailer system. International Journal of Production Research 48(19): 5549-5571. 
 
Chu Y F and Lin W C (2004). A study of inventory model based on order quantity and lead time as decision 
variables─ demand frequency and quantities corresponding Poisson and Normal distribution. Journal of the 
Chinese Institute of Industrial Engineers 21 (4): 384-394. 
 
George K (2004). Effectiveness of vendor-managed inventory in the electronics industry determinants and 
outcomes. Information & Management 41: 645-654. 
 
Kumar P and Kumar M (2003). Vendor managed inventory in retail industry. Tata Consultancy Service Inc. 
Publishers: New York. 
 
Kumar S, Nottestad D A and Murphy E E (2009). Effects of product postponement on the distribution 
network: a case study. Journal of the Operational Research Society 60: 471 -480. 
 
Myers M B, Daugherty P J and Autry C W (2000). The effectiveness of automatic inventory replenishment in 
supply chain operations: antecedents and outcomes. Journal of Retailing 76 (4): 455-481. 
 
Nachiappan S P, Gunasekaran A and Jawahar N (2007). Knowledge management system for operating 
parameters in two-echelon VMI supply chains. International Journal of Production Research 45(11): 
2479-2505. 
 
Niranjan T T, Wagner S M and Nguyen S M (2011). Prerequisites to vendor-managed inventory. International 
Journal of Production Research, Available online: 30 Jun. 
 
Rajagopal and Rajagopal A (2009). Buyer–supplier relationship and operational dynamics. Journal of the 
Operational Research Society 60: 313 -320. 
 
Tyan J and Wee H M (2003). Vendor managed inventory: a survey of the Taiwanese grocery industry. 
European Journal of Purchasing and Supply Management. 9 (1): 11-18. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/26
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 整合不同的多準則決策分析法以解決供應商管理庫存的瓶頸-以筆記型電腦產
業與鋼鐵製品產業為例(I)
計畫主持人: 王信智
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-251-009- 學門領域: 生產系統規劃與管制
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
相關兼任助理皆有達成預期訓練目標；已撰寫相關研究內容，將於 SCI 期刊上
發表。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
