 2
meanQ
QQFPMR minmax −=  
經由進一步之分析可知，隨著柱塞數之增
加流量脈動率逐漸減小，且奇數缸柱塞泵
之流量脈動率較偶數缸柱塞泵為小。為使
柱塞泵之輸出壓力維持一固定值，部分柱
塞泵裝設有壓力補償機構，圖一所示為
YUKEN 公司[7]所生產具壓力補償機構之
斜板式軸向柱塞泵之結構圖，整體而言，
壓力補償機構（圖二）係由壓力補償閥、
控制活塞、及斜板組件所構成，藉以維持
穩定之輸出壓力。 
液壓伺服致動器系統之剛性及反應速
率與柱塞泵之性能息息相關，柱塞泵常見
之性能異常現象為輸出壓力或流量不穩定
及高頻或低頻震盪，該些異常現象發生之
原因大多與壓力補償機構設計製作不良相
關，且異常狀態常受補償機構之結構、彈
簧強度、彈簧預壓縮量、及各相關設計尺
寸等參數所影響，為避免不穩定流量或壓
力之產生，必須針對壓力補償機構之設計
參數進一步探討，由於設計階段之諸多參
數設定，將會直接影響柱塞泵之整體液壓
性能，而該些影響若能於設計階段先予以
釐清，將可有效提昇設計及製造之效率及
產品之性能。 
柱塞泵之設計研發主要可分為液壓特
性及結構分析兩大方向，近年來已有許多
學者[8-14]對柱塞泵之性能分析、振動分
析、運動狀態分析、及各零件結構設計等
進行研究，但極少針對其結構設計參數對
輸出流量或壓力之穩定性進行探討。柱塞
泵之輸出流量與壓力及其脈動量均會受斜
板傾斜角度、柱塞內漏量、轉速、負載壓
力、柱塞缸直徑、柱塞孔節圓半徑、柱塞
缸數等影響，而該些影響至今仍未有完整
之分析結果；為能更加瞭解各設計參數對
柱塞泵整體效能之影響，本計畫針對一具
有壓力補償機構之斜板式軸向柱塞泵，開
發其液壓特性之分析技術，並探討各設計
參數對柱塞泵性能及穩定性之影響。本計
畫採用液壓系統分析軟體 HyPneu 建立柱
塞泵液壓特性之分析模型，探討各特徵參
數對柱塞泵輸出穩定性之影響，並進行輸
出流量與壓力之動態特性分析。 
三、研究方法 
本計畫針對一具有壓力補償機構之斜
板式軸向柱塞泵，開發其液壓特性之分析
技術，並探討各設計參數對液壓泵性能之
影響。本計畫之液壓特性分析係採用美國
BarDyne公司所發展之HyPneu v9.1液壓分
析軟體建立柱塞泵特性之分析模型，並進
行輸出流量與壓力之動態特性分析，該軟
體可對系統之穩態特性、動態特性、頻率
響應、及熱平衡等進行分析，利用液壓相
關設計分析軟體，快速建立液壓特性之分
析模型並簡化分析流程，利於進行流量與
壓力反應分析及效率分析，可於產品開發
過程中縮短嘗試錯誤之階段以達更佳之設
計效果。  
利用 HyPneu 進行液壓元件分析時，
係依元件內部流體流動路徑及結構，將其
轉化為相類比之液壓系統進行分析，圖三
即為本計畫利用 HyPneu 軟體分析，將柱塞
泵之構造轉化為相類比之液壓系統之示意
圖。利用九支單動液壓缸用以模擬九支柱
塞缸，其活塞係由週期性變化之速度所驅
動，以模擬柱塞缸之往復運動，該驅動方
法係由一週期性之訊號串聯一訊號轉換單
元，將訊號轉換為週期性之速度變化所構
成，各個活塞間之輸入訊號均具有相位
差，該相位差與斜板傾斜角度相關，該週
期性之速度變化連接至液壓缸之第 2 接口
（活塞之速度及力量接口），液壓缸之第 3
接口（位移接口）則連接一質量單元及一
阻尼單元用以模擬柱塞之運動，液壓缸之
第 1 接口連接進、出口管路，該進、出口
管路分別連接一流量控制閥用以模擬吸油
及排油時之負載，再連接至基準壓力之油
箱，以構成完整之液壓模擬回路。活塞直
徑依實際柱塞缸直徑而定，而其運動速度
則依缸體旋轉速度、斜板傾斜角度、及柱
塞孔節圓半徑而設定，依此分析模型可模
擬於不同設計參數（如柱塞缸體轉速、柱
塞數目、斜板傾斜角度、柱塞直徑、柱塞
孔節圓半徑等）之設定，探討於不同負載
狀態下各設計參數對柱塞泵輸出流量動態
 4
塞直徑及轉速之增加而減少，而後曲線便
逐漸趨於平緩；而 FPMR 值起初隨節圓半
徑之增加而快速增加，當節圓半徑超過
24mm 時，則逐漸平穩且趨於緩和；偶數缸
之輸出流量脈動較奇數缸為大（圖十一），
分別以偶數缸及奇數缸觀之，FPMR 值隨
柱塞數目之增加而減小，此結果與理論分
析之結果相符[4]。圖十二所示為液壓系統
之負載與輸出流量之關係圖，因系統負載
壓力增加使柱塞缸之內漏量增加而導致輸
出流量減少、體積效率降低；圖十三所示
為 FPMR 值會隨液壓系統負載之增加而增
加，而造成較大之壓力及流量脈動。 
模擬柱塞泵壓力補償機構動態特性
時，係於某一時間將位於柱塞泵出口之可
調流量控制閥之節流口面積突然關小，造
成負載壓力瞬間上升，以觀察其輸出流量
之變化及反應時間，圖十四至十六為利用
訊號轉換方式所得之模擬結果，圖十四所
示為當負載壓力瞬間上升，但未達壓力補
償機構設定壓力時，由於斜板之傾斜角並
未改變，僅於負載壓力突升時造成輸出流
量瞬間減少，經過一段時間後即回復至原
先之輸出流量。圖十五所示為當輸出負載
壓力突升且高於補償機構之開啟壓力時之
動態反應，由於負載壓力瞬間突升，以致
輸出流量瞬間下降，且由於負載壓力高於
補償機構之設定壓力，壓力補償機構作
動，經由壓力補償機構之輸出訊號和系統
原先之週期性訊號結合，使斜板之傾斜角
度減小，各柱塞缸之輸出流量亦隨之降
低，系統壓力亦隨之穩定。圖十六所示為
當負載壓力突然上升且高於壓力補償機構
之關閉壓力時之動態反應，由於負載壓力
高於壓力補償機構之關閉壓力，因此斜板
傾斜角度會逐漸降至零度，使柱塞泵停止
進行吸油、排油之動作，亦使輸出流量降
為零。 
圖十七至十九所示為利用實際壓力補
償機構之結構方式所得之模擬結果，分別
為負載壓力突然上升但未達補償機構之開
啟壓力、高於補償機構之開啟壓力、及高
於壓力補償機構之關閉壓力時之動態反
應，其改變趨勢與圖十四至十六大致相
似，表示利用訊號轉換方式及利用實際壓
力補償機構之結構方式均可獲得理想之模
擬結果，唯利用實際壓力補償機構之結構
方式所得之模擬壓力及流量變化存在些微
之震盪，此乃由於考慮壓力補償機構內部
零件之慣性所致，故其結果應較為準確。
由於流體之壓縮性及移動元件之慣性作
用，當負載壓力突然改變，輸出流量必須
經過一暫態變化後，始回復至穩定狀態，
其達到穩定狀態所需之時間一般稱之為反
應時間或穩定時間，由圖二十及二十一所
示，增加彈簧常數或彈簧預壓縮量之數值
均可縮短反應時間。 
本計畫已完成柱塞泵分析模型之建
立，並完成針對改變轉速、柱塞數目、斜
板傾斜角度、柱塞直徑、節圓半徑、負載
狀態…等不同設計參數之模擬分析，探討
各設計參數對柱塞泵輸出流量、壓力之影
響，及壓力補償機構穩態及動態分析；各
部分之分析結果與相關參考資料比對亦十
分相符，足以證明分析模型之正確性。由
本計畫之分析結果可歸納如下： 
1. 輸出流量隨斜板角度、柱塞直徑、節圓
半徑、轉速、柱塞數目等之增加而成正
比方式增加。 
2. 當斜板傾斜角度於 11~15o、節圓半徑於
26~30mm、柱塞缸徑於 13 ~15mm 時，
柱塞泵之輸出流量脈動較為穩定。 
3. 偶數缸之輸出流量脈動較奇數缸為
大；分別以偶數缸及奇數缸觀之，流量
脈動值隨柱塞數目之增加而減小。 
4. 增加彈簧常數或彈簧預壓縮量均可縮
短反應時間。 
五、參考文獻 
1. Blackburn, J. F., Reethof, G., and Shearer, 
J. L., “Fluid Power Control”, New York, 
Technology Press of M. I. T., and Wiley, 
1960. 
2. Merritt, H. E., “Hydraulic Control 
Systems”, New York, Jon Wiley & Sons, 
Inc., 1967. 
3. Watton, J., “Fluid Power Systems”, New 
York, Prentice Hall, 1989. 
4. Fitch, E. C., and Hong, I. T., “Hydraulic 
 6
 
 
圖四(a)、具壓力補償機構之斜板式柱塞泵
模擬系統示意圖(訊號轉換) 
 
 
 
圖四(b)、壓力補償機構局部放大示意圖(訊
號轉換) 
 
 
圖五(a)、壓力補償閥實際結構 
 
 
 
圖五(b)、與壓力補償閥類比之 HyPneu 模
組 
 
 
 
圖六(a)、具壓力補償機構之斜板式柱塞泵
模擬系統示意圖(機構模擬) 
 
 
 
圖六(b)、壓力補償機構局部放大示意圖(機
構模擬) 
 
 
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
0 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08
時間(sec)
流
量
(l
/m
in
)
第1缸流量
第2缸流量
第3缸流量
第4缸流量
第5缸流量
第6缸流量
第7缸流量
第8缸流量
第9缸流量
輸出總流量
 
 
圖七、各單缸流量及總輸出流量變化 
 
 8
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
0 0.03 0.06 0.09 0.12 0.15 0.18 0.21 0.24 0.27
時間(sec)
流
量
(l
/m
in
)
-140
-120
-100
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
壓
力
(k
g/
cm
^2
)
輸出流量
輸出壓力
 
 
圖十六、柱塞泵之動態反應（補償機構已
達關閉壓力、訊號模擬） 
 
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
0 0.03 0.06 0.09 0.12 0.15 0.18 0.21 0.24
時間(sec)
流
量
(l
/m
in
)
-35
-25
-15
-5
5
15
25
35
壓
力
(k
g/
cm
^2
)
輸出流量
輸出壓力
 
 
圖十七、柱塞泵之動態反應（補償機構未
啟動、機構模擬） 
 
 
 
圖十八、柱塞泵之動態反應（補償機構已
啟動、機構模擬） 
 
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2
時間(sec)
流
量
(l
/m
in
)
-140
-120
-100
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
壓
力
(k
g/
cm
^2
)
輸出流量
輸出壓力
 
 
圖十九、液壓泵之動態反應（補償機構已
達關閉壓力、機構模擬） 
 
 
 
圖二十、預壓縮量與反應時間之關係圖 
 
 
 
圖二十一、彈簧常數與反應時間之關係圖 
 
and Environmental Applications of Fluid Mechanics。下午之論文發表分為13：30至15：30之
第一階段，及16：00至18：00之第二階段，共分為20個technical sessions，約有百餘篇論文
發表，主要論文領域為延續上午之主題。下午並抽空參觀Poster Session，本日之研討會約
於下午18：20結束，結束後即返回旅館休息並準備次日之會議。 
七月三十一日上午之論文發表分為08：00至10：00之第一階段，及10：30至12：30之
第二階段，共分為20個technical sessions約有百餘篇論文發表，主要領域為除延續昨日之主
題外亦包含許多新的領域如Measurement and Modeling of Large-Scale Turbulent Structures, 
Transport Phenomena in Manufacturing Processes, Automotive Flows, Microbubble and 
Polymer Friction Drag Reduction, DNS LES and Hybrid RANS/LES Methods, Flow 
Applications in Aerospace, Fluid Measurements and Instrumentation, Fluid Machinery, Role of 
Fluids Engineering in Industry等。中午為2007 ASME Fluids Engineering Division Honors and 
Awards Luncheon，頒發2007 Fluids Engineering Award給Professor Alexander J. Smits、頒發
Robert T. Knapp Award給Marina Campolo, Andrea Cremese, Alfredi Soldati、頒發Lewis F. 
Moody Award給 Alicia Williams, Pavlos P. Vlachos, Barbar Akle、頒發 Sankaraiyer 
Gopalakrishnan-Flowserve Pump Technology Award給Robert O. Kiesow，午餐結束後
University of California的退休教授Professor Walter Munk發表演說 (Luncheon Keynote 
Speaker)，題目為”Where the Swell Begins”，於該演講中介紹以其自行設計之深海潛艇，潛
入深海中探尋前所未知之海洋生物，並以影片展示許多新發現之物種及其生態，給我們工
程領域人員有了新的不同感受。下午之論文發表為14：30至16：30，共分為10個technical 
sessions，約有50餘篇論文發表，主要論文領域除延續之前之主題外亦包含Fluid-Structure 
Interaction and Flow-Induced Noise in Industrial, Fundamental Issues and Perspectives in Fluid 
Mechanics, Recent Developments in High-Speed Flow Research, Micro Scale Transport in 
Lab-on-a-Chip, Industrial Application of Swirling Flows等；由於本人研究之領域與本日所發
表之論文領域關連性極高，因此整日均於不同之論文發表場地中穿梭，吸取他人研究之成
果及經驗，但因部分有興趣之論文發表時間衝突，無法兼顧，僅能參閱CD上之論文，失
去當面討論之機會。下午16：30至17：00間抽空參觀參展廠商之攤位介紹，本次會議參展
廠商包括ATK, CD Adapco, Cool-Tec, Dantec Dynamics, Flomerics, FMC Technologies, 
Optimal Solutions Software, TSI Incorporated, Visual Collaboration Technologies, Measurement 
Science Enterprise, 及Tecplot Inc.等，均介紹該公司之最新產品及服務項目，下午17：00至
18：00之議程係由Princeton University的Professor Alexander J. Smits發表演說（Fluid 
Engineering Award Lecture），題目為”Turbulence in Pipes: The Moody Diagram and Moore’s 
Law”，主要介紹自1944年為人廣用以估計管路內摩擦損失之Moody Diagram，由最近
Princeton University之研究發現，早期用以推導Moody Diagram之假設並非完全正確，因此
該研究利用速度分佈曲線修正平滑管路及粗糙管路之摩擦係數，以獲得較準確壓力損失之
估計結果。此演講結果深獲參加人員之興趣亦獲得極大之迴響，紛紛提出個人意見參與討
論，此方法雖已獲得初步之可行性，但仍有需改善之部分，相信在不久的將來，管路設計
人員即可利用此新方法更準確的估計出壓力損失，並進行更精確之設計。本日之研討會約
於下午18：40結束，結束後即返回旅館休息並準備次日之會議。 
八月一日上午07：00至會場參加Author breakfast，與Section Chair見面相互介紹後，參
加08：00至09：00由Swift Engineering的Mr. Mark A. Page之Plenary Lecture，題目為”From 
Blended-Wings to Racecars and Back Again”，Mr. Page是麥道/波音公司Blended-Wing-Body
之共同發明者之一，現任職於Swift Engineering，主要設計賽車及小型飛機，於其演說中介
紹如何將升力裝置應用於賽車及小型飛機中（該二者之升力方向完全相反）之歷程與改進
並介紹許多設計理念，並說明如何於三星期內設計一輛新型賽車或於兩百天內設計一架新
型小型飛機之策略，均為其在工業界數十年工作經驗之智慧結晶，使參與者深刻體會到科
Scale Transport in Lab-on-a-Chip, Industrial Application of Swirling Flows, Advances in Fluids 
Engineering Education, Liquid-Solid Flows, Applications in Computational Fluid Dynamics, 
Cavitation Inception, Transport Phenomena in Mixing, Multiphase Flows, Fluid Stability, 
Advanced CFD Applications to Transport Phenomena in Nuclear Engineering等 32個主要領
域，共有 500 餘篇論文於此次研討會中發表，參加之學者遍及世界各地。會議時間由
2007/7/30至 2007/8/02共計四日，會議議程安排雖十分緊湊但有條不紊，足見事先安排及
規劃之細膩，早上及中午時間亦安排有專題演講，內容十分豐富，實為一場學術饗宴。參
加會議學者之年齡層由在學之研究生至已退休之教授，見到一些年長的學者，即使已接近
退休之齡，仍不斷在新領域或新科技中探索，其終身學習及研究的精神實在令人感佩。業
界之研究人員或學校教授即使未發表論文仍會參與會議，瞭解目前科技發展方向並與相關
研究人員進行良性互動。 
基本上，本次會議之一般論文仍以學術研究為主，但美國、德國、日本等國亦有許多
學術界與產業界合作之應用性研究，產業界與學術界建立長期之合作關係，由業界提供充
裕之研究經費、先進之研究設備、及研究題目，由學術界提供研究人才進行模擬或實驗分
析，長時間深入的研究可得到較佳之研究結果，且良好的長期互動亦可達互利之目的，或
許這是國內產業界及學術界可學習的方向。 
由於此次會議係由美國機械工程師學會與日本機械工程師學會，因此由日本來參加之
學者與研究人員很多，但此次研討會國內投稿的文章很少，反觀除美國及日本兩主辦國之
外，韓國及中國大陸的文章則十分可觀，另外中國大陸在美的留學生亦十分積極的參與本
次會議並發表其研究結果，而大部分學校教授對台灣留學生的評價，不論是在專業知識程
度上或是學習態度上，均覺得不夠理想，這或許是國內學術界得警惕的現象。 
參加本次會議使本人瞭解目前最新之研究方向、各國研發之能力與程度、以及學術界
可以著力的領域，將對本人日後之研究有莫大之助益。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
無 
四、建議 
經參與此次會議後，本人有以下幾點建議： 
1.多鼓勵學術研究單位及產業單位出席相關國際性研討會，以廣收各國之經驗。 
2.國內產業界與學術界應建立長期之合作關係，長時間深入的研究可得到較佳之研究
結果，且良好的長期互動亦可達互利之目的。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
大會論文集光碟 
六、其他 
無 
 
 
 
 
 
 
shedding frequency, and variable drag at twice that frequency.  
The fluid force can produce adverse effects on many 
engineering applications, which is one of the main mechanisms 
region and/or by controlling the separated shear layer to reduce 
the strength of the vortex.  Accordingly, the fluid forces acting 
on the body and the vortex shedding can be attenuated or even  
causing flow-induced vibration as well.  For that reason, the 
steady and fluctuating fluid forces acting on a cylinder are 
major criteria for the engineering design.  The suppression of 
fluid forces and vortex shedding on a cylindrical structure is 
now a major subject in various areas of practical engineering 
applications.  For a successful engineering design, it is 
essential to know how to suppress the fluid forces acting on the 
cylinder and what is the effect of flow structure on the fluid 
forces.   
It is a well known phenomenon that the Karman vortex 
formation of a cylinder can be altered or attenuated by placing 
an object in proximity to the cylinder or within the cylinder 
near wake, Cheng et al. [1994, 2004, 2005].  Numbers of 
studies in bluff body fluid dynamics have shown that flow 
control is one of the effective means to suppress the fluid forces 
acting on the body.  Various methods for suppression the fluid 
forces and vortex shedding have been developed.  One of the 
successful approaches is to insert a small object in front of a big 
object.  This idea was originated and investigated in detail by 
the study of Morel & Bohn (1980).  They carefully examined 
the flow field over two circular disks with unequal diameters in 
tandem arrangement.  The fluid force was remarkable 
suppressed comparing with that of either disk alone.  By 
adopting this idea, numbers of different methods for 
suppressing the fluid forces and vortex shedding were studied.  
Flow fields around two circular cylinders with equal or unequal 
diameters in tandem arrangement were examined in the 
experiments carried out by Igarashi [1981, 1982].  Different 
flow patterns varying with longitudinal spacing and Reynolds 
number were observed.  For small spacing, there were two 
stationary vortices between the cylinders, and the drag force 
was successfully suppressed.  However, for a certain critical 
spacing, there was a bistable nature of the flow pattern.  The 
drag force was increased drastically at this particular spacing.  
Lesage & Gartshore [1987] and Igarashi [1997] investigated the 
drag reduction on a square prism by placing a small rod in the 
upstream of the square prism. Both the time-mean and 
fluctuating forces acting on the prism were successfully 
suppressed.  The optimum configuration for suppression the 
fluid forces and the vortex shedding from the prism were 
observed in their studies.  Sakamoto et al. [1994, 1997] and 
Zhou et al. [2005] performed further investigations by placing a 
flat control plate upstream a square prism, and observed that the 
control plate significantly suppressed the fluid forces acting on 
the prism.  Igarashi & Tsutsui [1989], Sakamoto et al. [1991], 
and Alam et al. [2003] investigated the fluid forces suppression 
by inserting a small control rod into the separated shear layer of 
the main cylinder.  By the effect of forcing reattachment of the 
separated shear layer on the surface of the cylinder, the time-
mean and fluctuating fluid forces acting on the main cylinder 
were significantly decreased.  Basically, all the 
aforementioned methods are based on by adjusting the integral 
structure shape to change the position of the vortex formation 2 Copyright ©2007 by ASME 
completely vanished.  
Due to numerous parameters involved, detailed 
knowledge and complete picture about how to use flow control 
method to suppress fluid force is far from complete at present.  
Moreover, most of the published literatures deal with circular 
cylinders or with flat control plate; very few studies have been 
conducted on square cylinder or with square control cylinder.  
The objective of this research is to study the suppression of 
fluid forces acting on a square cylinder (hereafter called as the 
main cylinder) by means of inserting a smaller-sized square 
cylinder (hereafter called as the control cylinder) in the 
centrally upstream.  The present study is carried out by using 
numerical technique to investigate the steady as well as the 
fluctuating fluid forces acting on the main cylinder, flow 
characteristics, and Strouhal numbers for different size-ratios 
and gap-ratios of the cylinders.  In addition, the interference 
flow structure is examined to evaluate the effect on the fluid 
forces acting on the main cylinder.  The corresponding 
Reynolds number is 8000 based on the main cylinder 
dimension and the free stream flow velocity.  Two size-ratios, 
0.3 and 0.6, are used in this study.  Gap-ratio is ranged from 
0.5 to 3.5. 
MATHEMATICAL MODEL 
The present study is to investigate the effects of a control 
cylinder on flow characteristics and fluid forces acting on the 
main cylinder in a two-dimensional time-dependent flow by 
using numerical technique.  Figure 1 shows the physical 
model, coordinate system, and parameters of this study.  As 
shown in the figure, two square cylinders arranged in the 
longitudinal direction to the free stream are placed in a uniform 
free stream with velocity U∞.  The characteristic lengths for 
the downstream main cylinder and the upstream control 
cylinder are D and S, respectively.  The cylinders are 
considered long enough so that the end effect can be neglected.  
The flow field can be assumed two-dimensional.  The 
Reynolds number, which is chosen as value of 8000, is 
calculated with upstream velocity, U∞, and the main cylinder 
dimension, D.  Gap-ratio and size-ratio are defined as L/D and 
S/D, where L is the gap distance between the cylinders.  Two 
size-ratios, 0.3 and 0.6, are used in this study.  Gap-ratio is 
ranged from 0.5 to 3.5.  Calculations are carried out as 
constant fluid properties and incompressible fluid.  The flow 
behaviors are governed by the differential equations derived 
from the laws of conservation of mass and momentum.  Based 
on the above assumptions, the non-dimensional mass 
conservation and the x and y components of the momentum 
conservation are expressed as follows: 
 
0=∂
∂+∂
∂
Y
V
X
U  
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
∂
∂+∂
∂+∂
∂−=∂
∂+∂
∂+∂
∂
2
2
2
2
Re
1
Y
U
X
U
X
P
Y
UV
X
UU
t
U
d
 
 
influences of the inflow, outflow, and blockage effect, the 
inflow length, outlet flow length, and the channel width are set 
to 15D, 35D, and 20D, respectively.  For all calculations, 
fluctuating lift and drag coefficients versus time of the single 
square cylinder after steady state vortex shedding has been  
600000 to 900000 elements are used for different gap-ratio 
geometries to obtain convergent results. 
In order to understand the flow structure mechanism on 
suppression of the fluid force acting on the body, the lift and 
drag coefficient, CL and CD, the time-mean lift and drag 
coefficient, CLm and CDm, the root-mean-square lift and drag 
coefficient, CLf and CDf, and the Strouhal number, St, are 
calculated and defined by 
DU
FC LL 25.0 ∞
= ρ  ,  
DU
FC DD 25.0 ∞
= ρ
,  
∞
=
U
fDSt  
∑= LLm CTC 1 ,  
∑= DDm CTC 1  
( )
T
CC
C LmLLf
∑ −= 2 ,  
( )
T
CC
C DmDDf
∑ −= 2  
 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
The main purpose of this research is to investigate the 
effects of a square control cylinder on flow characteristics and 
fluid forces acting on the square main cylinder in a two 
dimensional flow by using numerical technique.  The flow 
patterns, fluctuating lift and drag coefficients, time-mean and 
root-mean-square lift and drag coefficients, and Strouhal 
numbers are closely examined.  In order to understand the 
mutual interference flow field, the study is performed by 
varying the gap distances between the cylinders with different 
control cylinder sizes.  The fluid forces are analyzed by using 
dimensionless lift and drag coefficients; the Strouhal number is 
obtained from fluctuating lift coefficient of the main cylinder 
by using the Fast Fourier Transform technique; and the flow 
structures are represented by the vorticity contours.  The 
detailed numerical results will be presented in this section and 
compared with some available literatures. 
A preliminary simulation was made on a single square 
cylinder in cross flow to confirm the reliability of the results by 
the numerical technique.  In order to validate the simulation, 
the time-mean lift and drag coefficients, the root-mean-square 
lift and drag coefficients, and the Strouhal number are 
calculated and compared with available published results.  
Figure 3 shows the typical full field (left) and near field (right) 
vorticity contours of the single square cylinder.  A regular 
alternating vortex street is observed downstream of the 
cylinder.  Figures 4 and 5 show the waveforms of the 4 Copyright ©2007 by ASME 
reached and its corresponding power spectra obtained by the 
FFT technique.  The lift coefficient behaves as a simple sine 
wave; however, the drag coefficient shows a modulation in the 
shedding frequency.  There are two major peaks in the 
spectrum of the drag coefficient.  The lower frequency is 
related to the shedding of a vortex pair downstream of the 
cylinder; the higher frequency is twice the vortex shedding 
frequency which is related the pressure fluctuation in the 
adjoining region downstream of the cylinder caused by the 
shedding of vortices.  This confirms that the drag force 
fluctuates at twice the vortex shedding frequency, which is 
observed by Bishop and Hassan [1964].  The time-mean lift 
and drag coefficients, CLm and CDm, the root-mean-square lift 
and drag coefficients, CLf and CDf, and the Strouhal number, St, 
are calculated followed by the aforementioned definition.  The 
calculated time-mean lift coefficient is 0, time-mean drag 
coefficient is 2.59, root-mean-square drag coefficient is 0.23, 
root-mean-square lift coefficient is 1.42, and the Strouhal 
number is 0.12.  The flow pattern, Strouhal number, and lift 
and drag coefficients obtained by the numerical technique are 
in fairly good agreement with the published results obtained by 
Tamura & Kuwahara [1988] and Davis & Moore [1982].  
Those values are also used as the basis for comparison between 
the flow around a square main cylinder with and without a 
control cylinder. 
Figure 6 shows the typical full field (left) and near field 
(right) vorticity contours at various gap-ratios for size-ratio of 
0.3.  The flow field in front of the main cylinder is altered by 
the existence of the control cylinder.  A relative large portion 
on the front surface of the main cylinder is subjected to the low 
pressure wake of the control cylinder.  An alternating vortex 
street is observed in the wake region downstream of the main 
cylinder.  The wake width of the main cylinder is obviously 
narrower by comparing with that of the single square cylinder.  
This indicates a higher Strouhal number existed for the vortex 
street followed by the observation of Cheng [2004].  When the 
gap-ratio, L/D, is less than 1.4, the shear layers separated from 
the control cylinder reattach to the front surface of the main 
cylinder and roll in between the cylinders to form two quasi-
stationary vortices in between.  When L/D = 1.4, the shear 
layers that separated from the control cylinder attach to both 
corners of the front surface of the main cylinder.  One part of 
the shear layer rolls into the quasi-stationary vortices region, 
the other part separates again from the corner of the main 
cylinder.  The wake width is much narrower than that of the 
other gap-ratios.   The size of the vortices elongates as the 
spacing between the cylinders is increased.  When the gap-
ratio is greater than 1.4, the flow behavior is substantially 
changed.  Alternate vortex streets are formed not only behind 
the main cylinder but also behind the control cylinder.  This 
particular gap-ratio where vortex street formed behind the 
control cylinder is called as the “critical gap-ratio” hereafter in 
the present study.  Because of the relative large spacing, the 
flow behavior around the control cylinder is nearly unaffected 
 
reduced as the control cylinder is installed.  This reduction is 
mainly due to the shielding effect of the control cylinder, which 
is caused by a great portion on the front surface of the main 
of the single square cylinder.  But for the larger size-ratio, S/D 
= 0.6, CDf remains on the decreasing trend even above the 
critical gap-ratio (L/D = 1.2) until L/D = 1.4.  Then, it  
cylinder is subjected to the low pressure wake of the control 
cylinder.  The low pressure on the front surface of the main 
cylinder results in the reduction of the drag force.  When the 
gap-ratio is below the critical gap-ratio, the time-mean drag 
coefficient decreases with increasing the gap-ratio; and the 
value of S/D = 0.6 is lower than that of 0.3.  This is because 
the low pressure portion on the front surface of the main 
cylinder is wider for the greater gap-ratios and size-ratios.  
The maximum reduction of time-mean drag coefficient for S/D 
= 0.3 is about 63% at L/D = 1.4.  However, for S/D = 0.6, the 
lowest drag coefficient is negative.  This indicates that the 
drag force is replaced by the propulsive force instead.  At L/D 
= 1.4 for S/D = 0.3 and L/D = 1.2 for S/D = 0.6, the time-mean 
drag coefficient increases significantly, this is due to the 
formation of the vortex street behind the control cylinder.  
Despite the increase in time-mean drag coefficient, it still 
remains considerably smaller than that of the single square 
cylinder for both S/D = 0.3 and 0.6.  Sakamoto et al. [1987] 
observed the similar results in their research. 
Figures 11 shows the variation of root-mean-square lift 
coefficient, CLf, with L/D for S/D = 0.3 and 0.6, respectively.  
The mean value of the lift coefficient is nearly zero due to the 
flow field symmetry.  The root-mean-square lift coefficient of 
the single square cylinder is 1.42, which is denoted as the 
dashed straight line in the figure.  The CLf value of S/D = 0.3 
is lower than that of S/D = 0.6 for all gap-ratios.  Below the 
critical gap-ratio, where two quasi-stationary vortices formed 
between the cylinders, CLf decreases minutely as the gap-ratio 
increases and the values for both S/D = 0.3 and 0.6 are almost 
identical.  The maximum reduction of CLf for S/D = 0.3 and 
0.6 are 78% and 72%, respectively.  Comparing with the 
single square cylinder, the fluctuating lift force acting on the 
main cylinder can be substantially suppressed by installing the 
control cylinder.  At the critical gap-ratio, there is a vortex 
street formed behind the control cylinder, CLf increases 
drastically.  CLf for the smaller size-ratio (S/D = 0.3) remains 
lower than that of the single square cylinder.  On the contrary, 
CLf is greater than that of the single square cylinder for larger 
size-ratio (S/D = 0.6).  CLf slowly decreases from its 
maximum value with further increasing the gap-ratio when the 
gap-ratio is above the critical gap-ratio for both S/D = 0.3 and 
0.6. 
Figures 12 shows the variation of root-mean-square drag 
coefficient, CDf, with L/D for S/D = 0.3 and 0.6, respectively.  
The root-mean-square drag coefficient of the single square 
cylinder is 0.23, which is denoted as the dashed straight line in 
the figure.  Initially, CDf slowly decreases approaching to its 
minimum at L/D = 1.4, and the value of S/D = 0.6 is lower than 
that of S/D = 0.3.  The maximum reductions of CDf are 70% 
and 72% for S/D = 0.3 and 0.6, respectively.  For smaller size-
ratio, S/D = 0.3, CDf increases drastically at the critical gap-
ratio.  Afterwards, it decreases slowly from its maximum 
value with increasing the gap-ratio and approaches to the value 6 Copyright ©2007 by ASME 
increases continuously with increasing the gap-ratio.  When 
the gap-ratio is below the critical gap-ratio, the fluctuating drag 
force acting on the main cylinder can be substantially 
suppressed by installing the control cylinder; and the CDf value 
of S/D = 0.3 is greater than that of 0.6.  Above the critical gap-
ratio, CDf for both size-ratios are greater than that of the single 
square cylinder; and the CDf value of S/D = 0.3 is mostly lower 
than that of 0.6. 
Figure 13 shows the variation of Strouhal number, St, 
with L/D for S/D = 0.3 and 0.6, respectively.  The Strouhal 
number of the single square cylinder is 0.12, which is denoted 
as the dashed straight line in the figure.  It is observed that the 
Strouhal number is increased as the control cylinder installed in 
front of the main cylinder for small L/D.  This phenomenon 
accords well with the observation that the wake width 
downstream of the main cylinder is suppressed by installing the 
control cylinder as shown in figures 6 and 7.  For small size-
ratio, S/D = 0.3, there is a single Strouhal existed below the 
critical gap-ratio, and the Strouhal number increases with 
increasing the gap-ratio.  The Strouhal number reaches to its 
maximum at L/D = 1.4, where the wake width is the smallest.  
There is a jump phenomenon occurred at the critical gap-ratio, 
the original Strouhal number drops suddenly and a second 
Strouhal number appears.  This can be corroborated by the 
flow filed shown in figure 6 that vortex streets with different 
shedding frequencies are formed behind both cylinders as the 
gap-ratio is above the critical gap-ratio.  The higher and the 
lower Strouhal numbers correspond to the vortex street of the 
control and the main cylinders, respectively.  The lower one 
almost maintains as a constant for different gap-ratios, which is 
close to the Strouhal number of the single square cylinder.  
The higher one increases slowly with increasing the gap-ratio.  
This is probably due to the formation region behind the control 
cylinder increases for increasing the spacing between the 
cylinders.  The vortex street behind the control cylinder has a 
wider area to develop, therefore, the vortex shedding frequency 
and the corresponding Strouhal number is slowly increased 
with the gap-ratio.  The ratio of the lower and higher Strouhal 
numbers is about the size-ratio of the two cylinders.  For S/D 
= 0.6, the Strouhal number has very mild change for small gap-
ratios.  At the critical gap-ratio, the Strouhal number drops to 
a constant value which is greater than that of the single square 
cylinder, and remains at that value for further increasing gap-
ratios.  However, in the range of L/D = 1.2 ~ 2.5 even above 
the critical gap-ratio, there is still only one Strouhal number 
existed, which is corresponding to the vortex shedding 
frequency of the main cylinder.  This behavior accords well 
with the variation of lift coefficients shown in figure 9 and the 
flow patterns shown in figure 7.  One high and one low 
Strouhal numbers appear until gap-ratio is greater than 2.5.  
Their ratio is the same as the size-ratio of the cylinders.  This 
means that for gap-ratio between 1.2 and 2.5, even vortex street 
is formed between the cylinders, the fluid force acting on the 
 
Sakamoto, H. and Haniu, H., “Suppression of Fluid Forces of 
Square Prism by Controlling Separated Shear Layer (Controlled 
by a Fine Flat Plate)”, Transaction of JSME, vol. 60(373), pp. 
1575-1582, 1994. -2
-1
0
1
2
3
20 25 30 35 40 45 50
CL
0.5
1
1.5
2
Po
w
er
 D
en
sit
y 
Sakamoto, H., Tan, K., Takeuchi, N., and Haniu, H., 
“Suppression of Fluid Forces Acting on a Square Prism by 
Passive Control”, ASME Journal of Fluids Engineering, vol. 
119, pp. 506-511, 1997. 
Tamura, T. and Kuwahara, K., “Numerical Study of 
Aerodynamic Behavior of a Square Cylinder”, The 
International Colloquium on Bluff Body Aerodynamics and Its 
Application, vol. 17-20, pp. 161-170, 1988. 
Zhou, L., Cheng, M., and Hung, K. C., “Suppression of Fluid 
Force on a Square Cylinder by Flow Control”, Journal of 
Fluids and Structures, vol. 21, pp. 151-167, 2005. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1.  Schematic of the Flow Configuration 
 
 
 
Figure 2.  Typical Computation Grid Configuration 
 
   
 
Figure 3.  Vorticity Contour for a Single Square Cylinder 8 Copyright ©2007 by ASME 
-3
time (sec)
0
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 5
Frequency (Hz)  
 
Figure 4.  Fluctuating Lift Coefficient and Power Spectrum  
for a Single Square Cylinder 
  
 
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
20 25 30 35 40
time (sec)
CD
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 5
Frequency (Hz)
Po
we
r D
en
sit
y
 
 
Figure 5.  Fluctuating Drag Coefficient and Power Spectrum  
for a Single Square Cylinder 
 
 
    
     
     
     
     
     
        
 
Figure 6.  Vorticity Contours for S/D = 0.3 
L/D = 0.5
L/D = 1.0
L/D = 1.4
L/D = 1.5
L/D = 2.0
L/D = 3.0
L/D = 3.5
