Locally Approximate Boundaries in Wireless Sensor Networks
Ching-Yao Wang and Tien-Ruey Hsiang
Dept. of Computer Science and Information Engineering
National Taiwan University of Science and Technology
Email: {M9415027, trhsiang}@mail.ntust.edu.tw
Abstract
Sensor nodes located on the boundary of the covered
area often cause difficulties in maintaining a wire-
less sensor network’s lifespan. This study proposes a
simple method to approximate boundaries in wireless
sensor networks. The approach uses only connectivity
information of a network while not requiring nodes
localize themselves. The proposed method divides a
network into clusters and forms partial boundaries,
then extends detected partial boundaries until the
whole boundary is formed. Using a node’s 1- and 2-
hop neighbors, every node can decide locally whether
itself is located near the boundary. The implementation
shows that the approach can efficiently determine
boundaries in the coverage of a WSN.
1. Introduction
Wireless sensor networks (WSNs) consist of a large
number of relatively weak networking devices with
strict computing resource constraints, such as lim-
ited processing speed, storage capacity, communica-
tion range, and power. Therefore, algorithms used by
wireless sensor networks differ from those for general
wireless networks in the sense that they are required to
be more scalable, energy-efficient and self-organizing.
A routing protocol with less computation and commu-
nication complexity serves as a good example in which
it results in lower power consuming overhead for each
node, thus extends the lifespan of the network.
WSNs can be applied in numerous areas [1][2].
These disposable networking devices help the realiza-
tion of many applications, such as long-term remote
surveillance, intruder detection, real time traffic con-
trol, and patient tracking.
Due to environmental noises, failure of sensor nodes,
existence of obstacles, etc., there exist regions that are
unobservable by the deployed WSN. These regions
form holes in the WSN coverage. These holes grow
Figure 1. Outer and inner boundaries of the cov-
erage.
in size as the network operates due to nodes on the
boundary usually take heavier communication loads
that consume more power and shorten these nodes’
lifespan [3].
To better distribute the power consumption in a
WSN, it is essential to first identify nodes on the
boundary. A boundary node can be characterized as
either a member of the outer boundary enclosing the
whole network, or a member of an inner boundary
surrounding a hole in the WSN coverage. In other
words, The outer boundary separates the covered re-
gion from the outside world, while an inner boundary
indicate the existence of an obstacle or a vulnerable
area in the WSN coverage that needs to be further
explored. Shown in Figure 1, there are two inner
boundaries in the WSN coverage and exactly one outer
boundary enclosing the whole network. In this paper,
a simple approach enabling every node locally identify
themselves as close, in particular, within 2 hops to the
boundary is developed.
Boundary detection (sometimes called hole detec-
tion) can be performed during WSN deployment and
maintenance, where new sensor nodes may be added to
fill the holes and reinforce the network coverage [4][5].
(a) Situation 1. (b) Situation 2.
Figure 2. Two situations of 2-hop nodes.
Figure 3. The distribution of two 1-hop nodes.
3. Detecting Boundaries in a WSN
This section outlines the proposed method for de-
tecting boundaries in wireless sensor networks.
3.1. Cycle Tests
The key step of the method proposed in this study
is called the cycle test. Every node only needs the
connectivity information of its 1- and 2-hop neighbors.
The main idea for such a test is that a non-boundary
node can be enclosed by a connected cycle formed by
Figure 4. At least three 2-hop and three 1-hop
neighbors.
Figure 5. Cycle computation.
1: procedure CYCLETEST(Node i)
2: if ∃ three 1-hop and three 2-hop nodes then
3: Build 2-hop neighborhood
4: if FindCycle(i’s 2-hop neighborhood) then
5: i’s is a non-boundary node
6: else
7: i’s is a boundary node
8: end if
9: end if
10: end procedure
Figure 6. Determine whether a node is near a
boundary
its neighbors. However, due to random deployment of
sensor nodes, neighbors may crowd in a small area and
a cycle formed by 1-hop neighbors using connectivity
information may not enclose a node. Therefore, a cycle
test searches for an enclosing cycle of alternating 1-
and 2-hop neighbors of a node. For a node p to perform
a cycle test, it first constructs its 2-hop neighborhood
by querying its 1-hop neighbors. Then starting with a
2-hop neighbor, p searches for a cycle of alternating 1-
and 2-hop neighbors with the selected 2-hop neighbors
being disconnected. If a cycle is successfully found, p
is a non-boundary node. Otherwise, no cycle can be
formed and p is within two hops to the boundary.
Figure 5 serves as an illustrative example of how
a cycle can be detected, where nodes pj i are p’s
j-hop neighbors. Starting from p2 6, p continues to
select p1 4, p2 9,p1 5,p2 12,p1 1,p2 2,p1 2,p2 4, and at
last p1 3.
Figures 6 and 7 show the pseudocodes to perform
cycle tests.
Figure 11. Communication overhead comparison.
(a) Cluster number=1. (b) Cluster number=2.
(c) Cluster number=3.
Figure 9. Detection result with different number of
clusters.
(a) An area containing 3
holes.
(b) An area containing 4
holes.
Figure 10. Detecting boundary with multiple holes.
(DBDWSN) with two other methods, [9](THDSNCN)
and [6](BRSNTM). Note that [9] and [6] are both
single cluster approaches, therefore, the communica-
tion overhead remains the same under different cluster
numbers. From the chart, the communication overhead
of the proposed approach and THDSNCN are close in
the single cluster case. However, the communication
overhead of the proposed approach scales down sig-
nificantly when multiple clusters are used. Also, it can
be observed that the overhead of BRSNTM is much
greater than the other two approaches.
5. Conclusions and Future Work
Boundary detection may provide a picture of the
coverage condition of a sensor network. From bound-
ary information, the number or motion of intruders
may be induced, the weakly covered areas can be
found, and the distribution of power consumption can
be predicted.
In this paper, an approach of topological boundary
approximation for self-organizing sensor networks is
proposed. The approach works in a single cluster
WSN, where leaf nodes perform cycle tests. How-
ever, it requires more communication to approximate
boundaries. In order to reduce the communication
overhead, a clustering phase is added to first divide
a WSN, then cycle tests are performed on selected
nodes to approximate boundaries. Every node uses
the connectivity information of its 1-hop and 2-hop
neighbors to perform a cycle test in the proposed
approach.
  
 
 
 
出國報告書 
 
行程名稱： 2009 IEEE International Conference 
on Robotics and Automaton (ICRA 2009) 
 
 
 
 
 
  
報告人： 項天瑞 
 
 
 
日期：中華民國 98 年 5 月 20 日
