 1 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
內嵌風力發電之電力系統暫態穩定度性能指標 
 
計畫編號: NSC  99 - 2221 - E - 214 - 071 -  
執行期限: 99年8月1日至100年7月31日 
主持人: 林堉仁 義守大學電機系 (yjlin@isu.edu.tw) 
 
 
一. 中文摘要 
本文討論以內嵌風力發電機電力系統暫態穩定度性能
指標。文獻中以感應發電機為主體的風力發電系統之
暫態臨界清除時間可以分成兩種，一個是以速度為基
準，另一個則是以電壓為基準。本文針對這兩種不同
基準的臨界清除時間做為穩定度指標，進行討論。我
們發現以電壓為基準之臨界清除時間較為嚴峻，然而
這也要同時考慮低電壓穿越能力之規範，但仍不足以
適切表達暫態穩定度之性能。本文提出以速度變化量
做為含有風力發電系統之暫態穩定度指標。 
 
關鍵詞 : 電力系統暫態穩定度、感應發電機、臨界清
除時間、暫態穩定度指標 
 
Abstract 
This project discusses the wind power embedded power 
system transient stability performance index. It compares 
two types of the critical clearing time (CCT) of squirrel 
cage induction generator (SCIG). Induction generators 
have been widely employed in modern renewable power 
systems. Assessing the stability of induction generators 
embedded power systems we usually associate with the 
CCT. In literature two types of CCTs have been 
frequently quoted for SCIG, one is based on its rotor 
speed and the other is based on terminal voltage. In this 
study we compare these two types of CCTs of an SCIG 
driven by a wind turbine. Scenarios analysis has 
demonstrated that the voltage based CCT is shorter than 
the speed based CCT. However, the meanings of these 
two types of CCTs should be very carefully interpreted. 
Using speed deviation as the transient stability is 
proposed and investigated in this project.  
 
Key Words: squirrel cage induction generator (SCIG), 
transient stability assessment, critical clearing time (CCT)  
 
二. 緣由與目的 
When one carrying out power system transient stability 
analysis, evaluation and assessment, a frequently quoted 
stability index is the critical clearing time, CCT, which is 
defined by the time required to clear a fault in the grid so 
that the power system can weather the contingency and 
preserve intact. Conventionally synchronous generators 
dominate the power systems wherein synchronism is the 
main theme to present the a stable power system operation. 
CCT is usually determined by observing the synchronous 
machine rotor angle differences with respect to either a 
pre-specified bus or the average of all weighted generator 
rotor angle. Recently due to the effect of prevailing 
renewable energy like wind power, non-synchronous 
machines in power system stability is warmly investigated 
but not that extensively as well as synchronous machines. 
Notice that the induction generators are not obligated to 
the power system synchronism. Squirrel cage induction 
generator (SCIG), for example, delivers active power only 
when it runs faster than synchronous speed. Bessides, 
double-fed induction generator (DFIG) can even more 
conveniently generate electricity at both super- or sub-
synchronous speed. To assess the transient stability of an 
induction generator, apparently the machine rotor angle is 
by no means proper. 
Exquisite transient stability analysis techniques 
developed for synchronous generators in the past several 
decades have paved a way for the induction generator 
stability analysis. The celebrated power-angle curve of a 
synchronous generator along which a critical clearing 
angle (CCA) can be targeted mirrors the torque-slip 
characteristic of an induction machine wherein a critical 
clearing slip or speed (CCS) could be inferred accordingly. 
Therefore, CCT of an induction generator can be denoted 
the time beyond which the CCS has been reached, 
afterward the rotor speed would accelerate utterly and 
never return. CCT cited in these studies can be 
categorised in the realm of rotor speed stability [SL 2005], 
and that term is particularly designated for induction 
generator. Comprehensive definition in this respect has 
been further discussed in [SL 2006]. 
The idea of low voltage ride through (LVRT) aims to 
support the wind power embedded power network as a 
fault occurred. Voltage drop due to a fault might cause the 
protection system to disconnect wind generator from the 
grid. Some utility would like the wind turbine continues 
assists the electric network during fault. This is particular 
true when the penetration is relative high. Whereas 
tripping a wind generator quickly might have a negative 
impact on the power network. 
 3 
 
(a)Terminal voltage                            (b) Rotor Speed 
Fig. 2.  Fault cleared at 0.337 seconds 
  
(a) Terminal Voltage                           (b) Rotor Speed 
Fig. 3.  Fault cleared at 0.338 seconds 
 
 
 
(a) Terminal Voltage                           (b) Rotor Speed 
Fig. 4.  Fault cleared at 0.340 seconds 
 
What is seen in the example of Fig. 2 is merely the 
voltage stays with the prescribed limits. Hence the 
induction generator shouldn’t be disconnected. The 
machine is stable and one can presume that it will not be 
disconnected. In the case of Fig 3 and 4, the voltage 
evolution does not stay within the LVRT curve limit. 
Thus in principle the machine should be allowed to trip. 
In the stable case of Fig. 3, it has properly no reason to 
trip and hence the system is more secure than requested 
by the LVRT criterion. In the unstable case of Fig. 4, the 
machine will be most likely tripped, and this is allowed. 
In the system of concern, the voltage evolution appears 
to be mainly influenced by the induction machine itself. 
Incidently, this point is worth a comment. Hence the 
piecewise linear curve v(t) should be considered rather as 
the requested voltage recovery characteristis. This is a 
matter of votlage quality, i.e. of consumer trouble. In this 
respect, the voltage of interest is the one at the rightmost 
load buses in the test system in Fig. 1. Assuming the 
voltage shown in Fig. 2 to 4 is the load voltage, the 
voltage recovery is acceptable in Fig. 2, marginally 
unacceptable in Fig. 3, and unacceptable in Fig. 4. Clearly 
this is not a matter of stability but of quality of response. 
 
The second question is: Is there any new candidate 
precise and faster than CCT to evaluate the transient 
stability status of a wind power embedded power system? 
If so, what is it? Should we develop a new performance 
index to replace CCT? 
Before we introduce the proposed stability performance 
index, we should revisit the definition of stability. The 
instability mechanism of concern is the well-known lack 
of attraction towards the post-fault stable equilibrium. 
In this project, we suggest the use of machine speed as 
the stability performance index. The reson is twofold. 
First, for both synchronous and asynchronous geneartor, 
there are always dynamic equations involve the imbalance 
between the input mechanical power and output electrical 
power. The difference between the power will cause the 
machine to accelerate, which will in turn increase the 
speed of the machine. Secondly, unit of the speed can be 
unified to the per unit. Therefore, we don’t have to worry 
about the problem of transforming different speed units. 
We may adopt the machine speed in per unit. 
 
For a synchronous machine, its dynamics is dominated 
by the swing equation,  
 
ωp.u.
ωsyn
ddtωr(t) = 12H (Pm,p.u. − Pe,p.u.) 
 ddt δ(t) = ωr(t) − ωsyn 
 
The rotor angle is always used to suggest the stabilty 
status of a synchronous machine. To indicate the stability 
status of a synchronous machine, we usually observe the 
rotor angle track. If it swings away, it is said that this 
synchronous machine is unstable.   
 
For an asynchronous machine, its steady state 
performance is usually dominated by the slip, the 
difference between the per unit synchronous ns , and the 
perunit of the rotor speed, nr, and is denoted by the slip, S, 
as shown below. 
 S = ns − nrns  
 
While for an asynchronous machine, its dynamics 
 ddt S = 12H (Tm − Te) 
 
 
As shown in the previous study, the dynamics of 
synchronous and asynchronous machines  
 
我於 7月 5日中午由高雄出發，搭乘高鐵至桃園站後，接駁至中正機場。抵達山東青
島流亭機場時己 21:30了。再拾取行李及轉搭接駁客運到青島市區時，己是晚上 23:00
深夜時分。我找了一個簡樸的旅館，7月 6日一大早就前往青島長途汽車客運站，搭
乘 7:30出發到威海的汽車。從青島到威海約略 220公里，相當從高雄到台中的距離。
但是這趟旅途卻花了 5個小時的時間，主要是因為客車途中故障，及偶有旅客中途上
下車。抵達威海市區再轉當地公共汽車(公交車)，到了山東大學威海大學國際學術中
心是下午 14:45時分。7月 6日晚上是大會的晚宴。我在會場遇見了本校國際長，謝世
傑老師。 我們一起用餐。 
 
7月 7日是大會第一天。早上有四場演講，第一場是由來自巴西的學者講演電力系統
穩定器 (Power system stabiliser, PSS) 的相關參數設定。另一場講演則是來自美國伊利
諾州的教授，講題是分散式電源。 
 
因為我預計 7月 7日下午要離開飯店，所以後來兩場講演我只好離席去整理房間。當
天下午日是我的簡報場次，我排在第一個。簡報完畢後，有不少學者提問，問題如下: 
 
 即時線上實行之可行性(On-line, real time application)  
 自由度的定義(degree of freedom)  
 事故搜尋-使用蒙地卡羅法 (contingency screening using Morte Carlo 
Method)  
 類神經網路規則萃取的計算量( Computation burden of Rule extraction 
from ANN) 
 
提出相當寶貴的問題，我亦一一回應，也一一謹記在心。後來又聽了另一篇論文的簡
報，是關於風力發電機的電壓穩定度。因為從青島到威海的交通路程實在是充滿變數，
難以預測，因此我在當地時間 14:40就趕搭威海公交車，至威海長途汽車站，再轉搭
長途汽車前往青島。即便急急如律律令地趕路，抵青島己是晚上 20:30時分了。還是
找了一家簡樸的旅館，7月 8日一大早就驅車前往青島流亭機場，搭機返台。 
 
由於此趟出席國際會議行程在預算上較為緊縮，大部分時間與經費都在於交通行程與
住宿。相形之下，因此也壓縮了與其他學者交流或合作討論的時間與空間。這是這次
行程最大敗筆，但也不啻是一個收獲。雖然如此，結識的知名學者專家有山東大學電
氣工程系的楊明博士。同時，也和我博士學位的指導教授 Prof. K. L. Lo見面懇談。 
 
另外，也知悉世界各國學者均孜孜不倦地進研究。尤其是 7月 6日晚宴，席間和幾位
對岸中國大陸知名大學學生交談時，感覺到對岸教師與學生進行學術研究之投入，嚴
謹的治學態度，以及其學術倫理與學術道德等等之尊重，是本校學生，甚至是本校老
師，所要學習的對象。 
 
本研討會議，總共計有來自英、美、澳、德、丹、瑞典、星、紐、泰、伊朗、印度、
加、巴西、哥倫比亞、中國大陸、越南、台等十七個國家的研究學者與學生。發表的
論文議題相當全面，有傳統的電力系統分析，像是電力系統穩定度(Power system 
stability)、電力系統保護(Protection)、電力品質(Power Quality)，以至新近電力系統新
興研究議題，像是智慧型電網(Smart grid)、微型電網(Micro grid)、再生能源(Renewable 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/20
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 內嵌風力發電之電力系統暫態穩定度性能指標
計畫主持人: 林堉仁
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-214-071- 學門領域: 電力系統
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
