 2
前言 
近年來，由於微型製造技術、無線通訊技術以及電池製造技術的精進，使得具備感測環境、無線
通訊及資訊處理能力的微小感測器（sensor）得以進入實用化的階段。這種微小的感測器除了能夠感
測環境的變化，然後將感測到的結果轉化成數據資料，還能即時以無線傳輸的方式將所收集到的資料
送回資料收集中心或基地台（base station），以利相關人員能即時掌握現況並做出適當的因應。無線感
測器網路的應用層面極為廣泛，包含了以下五個面向：1.軍事面向、2.環境面向、3.健康面向、4.家庭
面向、5. 商業面向。然而，由於這些感測器網路中傳遞的資料通常為機敏資料，因此，如何替這些計
算能力與電力薄弱的感測器網路設計安全與節能的安全通訊協定，是所有的資安人員近年來一個重要
的挑戰。 
研究目的 
為了節省感測器傳輸時的能量消耗以及距離的問題，近年來有許多文獻研究以植基於叢集
（cluster-Based）的階層式架構來建立無線感測器網路。觀察植基於叢集的無線感測器網路架構我們可
以發現，在此種架構下，由感測器所組成的網路拓撲通常為數學上的高維度圖形結構 (hypergraph 
structure)。根據我們的研究，若以高維度圖形結構為概念來設計適用於無線感測器網路的金鑰協議，
當叢集內的感測器有大量變動時，其可以讓我們以較小的運算量和通訊量，來完成所有叢集的重新規
劃。因此，本計畫的目的即為設計出適用無線感測器網路的高維度圖形動態群體金鑰協議。在此協議
中，每個感測器只需要常數次的通訊步驟，再加上微量的運算，即可和所屬叢集中所有其他的感測器
達成彼此的身份確認，並且計算出所屬叢集的叢集金鑰(cluster key)。當叢集內的感測器有新增或離開
時，此協定也能在影響最少感測器的狀況之下，去確認新進節點的身份或是踢除掉離開的節點，並且
更新叢集金鑰。 
文獻探討 
目前已發展了許多跟無線感測器相關的技術，而在協定的研究上，都是以製造出不同群組的無線
感測器的群體金鑰為目的。但是透過現有文獻，卻發現有部分的問題代改進。以下就針對相關文獻，
分別進行說明： 
在 2003 年，Jolly 等人發表了適用於無線感測器網路上的低能量金鑰管理協定[19]。在該文中，
不論是基地台、CH 或節點需要記住的金鑰，都會隨著節點的增加而增加。因此造成節點或系統沉重
的負擔而加速能量的消耗。更甚是，會隨著節點被竊取而遺失私密訊息，危及私密訊息內相關的所有
節點，大大降低協定的安全度。另外，無法在基地台離線時運作，這也會讓整體的使用上更不彈性。
更甚至，無節點新增、CH 替換的相關協定，當面臨攻擊的時候也只能重新運作，讓整個協定的運行
上有很大的設限。 
在 2006年，Zhu等人提出一篇適用於大型分佈式感測器網路的安全機制[31]。在這篇文中，須計
算的節點越多，計算量就會跟著越多，也越耗能源，加快感測器需要更換的速度。當 CH 發生錯誤或
缺乏電力時，也沒有相關更換協定，只能讓協定重新運作，因此更加耗能。 
在 2007年，Cheng和 Agrawal 發表了適用於分層無線感測器網路上的改進金鑰分配機制[9]。該
協定，缺乏了節點和 CH的新增刪除協定，一旦節點或 CH 失去電力或遭受攻擊，則無法彈性的處理，
只能讓基地台在重新配置所有的金鑰。這樣只會讓整體的運作不靈活，且增加能量的消耗。 
在 2009 年，Shen 等人發表了針對可更新無線感測器網路的靈活與有效金鑰分配機制[25]。該協
定欠缺節點和 CH的刪除機制。所以，使用上也是受限的。 
因此，我們提出一個適用於無線感測器網路之群體金鑰交換通訊協定。協定中，可以在基地台離
線之際，經初次建立步驟，創出每一個群的群金鑰和每兩 CH 間的成對金鑰。此外，可在需加入新節
點時，使用動態新增的機制來更新群體金鑰；當節點被攻擊成功時，使用動態刪除的機制來更新群體
金鑰。而當 CH電力耗盡時，也有替換機制提供 CH替換的功能。另外，協定運行步驟是固定的，不
會因節點增加而增加步驟，因此可達到多功能性，且不會消耗過多能源的益處。 
 4
 
Round1： iCH 與 jCH 廣播自己的 id。 
    Round2： iCH 和 jCH 接收到對方的 id後，使用第 r回合的方程式計算 ),( jir CHCHf 作為 iCH 和
jCH 的成對金鑰；同時， jCH 也使用第 r回合的方程式計算 ),( jir CHCHf 。因此， iCH  和 jCH 可以
同時計算出他們之間的成對金鑰
ji CHCH
K
−
。 
 
第 r次佈點(新增) 
 
Round1：在新節點佈署前， jCH 需要廣播 jCH 。 
Round2：經過第一回合後，屬於 rG 的新佈節點 iS 可以發現鄰居 CH。之後， iS 會去計算每個鄰居
jCH 的獨立金鑰 ),( rjrj MKCHHIK = ，並使用此金鑰加密訊息，傳送密文 )( iIK SE rj 給 jCH 。 
Round3： jCH 收到密文後，會用
r
jIK 解開，便可透過詢息內容更新 je 。然後， jCH 會計算並廣
播訊息( )(||)(1 jIKjCK eEeE rjrj − )給群組內的成員。之後，舊成員就可以使用金鑰 )(1 jCK eE rj − 解開密文取得
新的 je ，新成員同時可使用金鑰 )( jIK eE rj 解開密文取得新的 je 。 
Round4：包含 iS 的群組 j 中每個成員可以計算 ),( 1,1 iirj ii SSfk −− = 、 ),( 11, ++ = iirjii SSfk 和
j
ii
j
ii
j
i kkC 1,,1 +− ⊕= 。然後， iS 會把所有的
j
ij ce || 串起來，形成 ...||||||... jiji CeC = 。最後， iS 會廣播 jiC 並
把從鄰居節點那接收到的密文進行解密。 
Round5：包含 iS 的群組 j中每個成員，可以由 jC* 取得 jmjj kkk 1,3,22,1 ,...,, ，這裡的是m是 je 的個數。
 6
另一種需要更換 CH的狀況，是當發現 CH有問題，被攻擊者竊取時。便要由發現的節點操作上
述刪除的協定，來刪除有問題的 CH。然後，產生新的群體金鑰。 
而在時間T中，完成協定的所有金鑰建立後，所有節點和 CH 會清除掉此次通訊所使用到的方程
式、主金鑰和舊的群體金鑰。 
 
以下針對本篇和相關研究中的另四篇論文作功能比較： 
 
○：代表完全符合     ▲：代表部分符合      х：代表完全不符合 
透過功能比較表，便可以知道，本協定是第一篇可以在運行過程中讓每個參與的節點和 CH計算
出相同的群體金鑰，並且同於擁有新增節點、刪除節點、更換 CH多重機制的適用於無線感測器網路
群體金鑰交換的通訊協定。因此，相較於其它篇，具有更完善的功能，並更可供使用者靈活使用。 
 
參考文獻 
[1] 王智弘, & 陳怡君. (2007). 無線感測網路之金鑰分配策略及其應用. 資通安全專論 T9607. 
[2] Akyildiz, I. F., Su, W., Sankarasubramaniam, Y., & Cayirci, E. (2002). Wireless Sensor Networks: 
A Survey. Computer Networks 38 , pp. 393-422. 
[3] Blom, R. (1985). An Optimal Class of Symmetric Key Generation Systems. Cryptology: 
Proceedings EUROCRYPT ’84, LNCS 209, (pp. 335-338). 
[4] Blundo, C., Santis, D. A., Herzberg, A., Kutten, S., Vaccaro, U., & Yung, M. (1993). 
Perfectly-Secure Key Distribution for Dynamic Conferences. Cryptology – CRYPTO ’92, LNCS 
740 , pp. 471-486. 
[5] Camtepe, S., & Yener, B. (2005). Key Distribution Mechanisms for Wireless Sensor Networks: A 
Survey. Technique Report TR-05-07, Department of Computer Science, Rensselaer Polytechnic 
Institute . 
[6] Chan, H., Gligor, D. V., Perrig, A., & Muralidharan, G. (2005, 7-9). On the Distribution and 
Revocation of Cryptographic Keys in Sensor Networks. IEEE Transactions on Dependable and 
Secure Computing , 2 (3), pp. 233-247. 
[7] Chan, H., Perrig, A., & Song, D. (2004). Key Distribution Techniques for Sensor Networks. 
Wireless Sensor Networks , pp. 277-303. 
[8] Chan, H., Perrig, A., & Song, D. (2003). Random Key Predistribution Schemes for Sensor 
Networks. IEEE Symp. Security and Privacy, (pp. 197-213). 
 8
[26] Walters, P. J., Liang, Z., Shi, W., & Chaudhary, V. (2006). Wireless Sensor Network Security: A 
Survey. (Y. Xiao, Ed.) Security in Distributed, Grid, and Pervasive Computing . 
[27] Wang, G., Cao, G., & Porta, T. (2004). Movement-Assisted Sensor Deployment. IEEE INFOCOM . 
[28] Younis, F. M., Ghumman, K., & Eltoweissy, M. (2006, 8). Location-Aware Combinatorial Key 
Management Scheme for Clustered Sensor Networks. IEEE Transations on Parallel and Distributed 
Systems , 17 (8), pp. 865-882. 
[29] Yu, Z., & Guan, Y. (2005). A Key Pre-distribution Scheme Using Deployment Knowledge for 
Wireless Sensor Networks., (pp. 261-268). 
[30] Zhu, S., Setia, S., & Jajodia, S. (2003). Leap: Efficient security mechanisms for large-scale 
distributed sensor networks. 10th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security 
(CCS ’03) , pp. 62–72. 
[31] Zhu, S., Setia, S., & Jajodia, S. (2006). LEAP+: Efficient security mechanisms for large-scale 
distributed sensor networks. ACM Trans. on Sensor Networks , 2 (4), pp. 500-528. 
[32] Zou, Y., & Chakrabarty, K. (2003). Sensor Deployment and Target Localization Based on Virtual 
Forces. IEEE INFOCOM . 
 10
 
3. Trusted third party based key management protocol. Each communication entity shares a symmetric key 
with a trusted third party. Then, the communication entities can achieve mutual authentication and 
secure communication through the trusted third party’s assistance. 
 
Reviewing the above categories of key management protocol, symmetric key based key management 
protocols are more suitable for WSNs than the other categories. Due to the resource constraints of sensor 
nodes, asymmetric key based key management protocols are too complex and energy consuming for WSNs. 
This is because they require exponential computations. On the other hand, the sensor nodes are often spread 
in wide area so that many sensor nodes may be deployed too far away to communicate with the trusted third 
party. Therefore, trusted third party based key management protocols are also hard to implement in WSNs. 
 
The most common network architectures of WSNs are flat WSNs and hierarchical WSNs (Shen, Guo, & 
Leung, 2009). All senor nodes play the same role in a flat WSN. Under this architecture, a sensor node may 
randomly select a neighbor node to forward the data. Thus, the data transmission path may not be fixed. 
Nevertheless, a hierarchical WSN requires some special sensor nodes, called Cluster Head (CH). A CH is a 
data collection center of a small region in a WSN. Under this architecture, each sensor node can forward data 
to its local CH in a short distance, and then the CH forward collected data to the BS using a fixed path via 
other CHs. The manuscript (Cheng & Agrawal, 2007) showed that the communication of a hierarchical 
architecture is better than a flat architecture in WSNs. Therefore, several recent studies focus on designing 
key management protocols of hierarchical WSNs. 
 
To deal with the key management problem in hierarchical WSNs, several investigations were proposed in 
these years. In 2003, Jolly et al. proposed a key pre-distribution scheme LEKM (Jolly, Kuscu, Kokate, & 
Yuonis, 2003). Their scheme has no computational cost at both sensor node and CH by using the key 
pre-distribution mechanism. However, the CHs require high storage and communication overhead during the 
deployment phase. Later, Cheng et al. (Cheng & Agrawal, 2007) proposed IKDM, a polynomial-based 
protocol to overcome this problem. In the IKDM protocol, sensor nodes and CHs have fixed storage cost in 
pre-distribution phase. Thus, it is suitable for large-scale hierarchical WSNs. In 2009, Shen et al. (Shen, Guo, 
& Leung, 2009) presented a renewable key management protocol for hierarchical WSNs. Their protocol 
additionally provides key establishment for adding new deployed sensor nodes which is more flexible than 
previous schemes. However, the above protocols have a common weakness. That is, they do not provide a 
mechanism to discard the compromised nodes. Once an adversary captures some sensor nodes and 
compromises the secret keys, the adversary can intercept the communications of the WSN and even deploy 
some cloned nodes to interfere with the WSN. 
 
In this paper, we propose a novel key management protocol for hierarchical WSN. The proposed protocol is 
based on a hypergraph key agreement (Jeong & Lee, 2007) which helps to establish cluster keys efficiently. 
In the proposed protocol, a WSN is viewed as a hypergraph. That is, a sensor node is represented as a vertex 
and a cluster is represented as a hyperedge. Compared to previous investigations, the proposed protocol 
possesses the following features. (1) Scalability. No matter how many sensor nodes and how many clusters 
are in a WSN, the proposed protocol can use constant communication rounds to establish all cluster keys. 
Therefore, it is especially suitable for resource-constrained large-scale WSNs. (2) Applicability. In the 
proposed protocol, all sensor nodes can be deployed randomly and establish cluster keys without knowing the 
topology of the whole network in advance. (3) Flexibility. This paper also presents dynamic insert and 
remove protocols. The dynamic insert protocol allows newly deployed sensor nodes to join an existing WSN 
while the dynamic remove protocol can delete compromised sensor nodes from a WSN. (4) Robustness. The 
proposed protocol can resist node capture attacks, node cloning attacks, wormhole attacks and energy 
consumption attacks. 
 
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 summarizes the notations and underlying primitives. 
Section 3 demonstrates the proposed hypergraph based key management protocol. Section 4 evaluates the 
security of the proposed protocol. A brief conclusion is presented in Section 5. 
 12
management scheme can be easily applied to a WSN. In 2007, (Jeong & Lee, 2007) introduced a simple key 
management scheme for a hypergraph which can be complete in two rounds. Here we briefly illustrate their 
concept. Given a hyperedge 
1 2{ , ,..., }me s s s= , the vertices 1 2, ,..., ms s s  can establish a cluster key as 
follows. 
 
R1: For each is e∈ , si first computes 1,i ik − , , 1i ik +  and 1, , 1i i i i iC k k− += ⊕ , where 1,i ik −  is the pairwise key 
shared with si-1 and 
, 1i ik +  is the pairwise key shared with si+1, respectively. After that, si broadcasts 
|| ie C  to other vertices. 
 
R2: After receiving all messages from other vertices, iS  can use 1,i ik −  and , 1i ik +  to get all pairwise keys 
1,2 2,3 ,1, ,..., mk k k . Finally, iS  computes 1,2 2,3 ,1( , , ,..., )mCK H e k k k=  as the cluster key. 
 
THE PROTOCOL 
This section proposes a hypergraph based key management protocol for hierarchical WSNs. The proposed 
protocol consists of the setup phase, the initial deploy phase, the dynamic insert phase, and the dynamic 
remove phase. These four phases are demonstrated as follows. 
 
Setup phase 
For the system setup, the BS divides the sensor nodes into n deployments. The BS first selects n random 
numbers 1 2, ,..., nMK MK MK  as the master keys of the WSN. Subsequently, the BS also prepares n bivariate 
polynomial functions 1 2( , ), ( , ),..., ( , )nf x y f x y f x y  and randomly selects a system parameter sn. Let rG  be 
the set of r-th deployed nodes, for some 1 r n≤ ≤ . For each sensor node i rS G∈ , iS  computes its individual 
keys ( , )ji i jIK H S MK=  where r j n≤ ≤ . iS  then preloads its master key rMK , the system parameter sn, 
its individual keys j
iIK , and the bivariate polynomial functions ( , )jf x y , where r j n≤ ≤ . 
 
Initial deploy phase 
The initial deploy phase can be complete in four rounds.  
 
R1: After deployment, a sensor node iS  broadcasts the message 1 ( )MK iE S  and decrypts the messages 
broadcasted by neighbor nodes. 
 
R2: After the first round, the cluster header jCH  can decide which sensor nodes belong to the cluster j. 
Then jCH  prepares the member list ej and broadcasts the message 1 ( )MK jE e  to inform its members. 
Subsequently, iS  can decrypt the messages sent by the neighbor cluster headers and know which 
clusters contain it. 
 
R3: For each cluster j contains iS , iS  computes 1, 1 1( , )i ij i ik f S S− −= , 
, 1 1 1
( , )
i i
j
i ik f S S+ +=  and 
1, , 1i i i i
j j j
iC k k− += ⊕ . iS  then concatenates all || jj ie C  and gets ... || || || ...ji j iC e C= . Finally, iS  
broadcasts the message iC  and decrypts the messages broadcasted by neighbor nodes. 
 
R4: For each cluster j contains iS , iS  can get 1,2 2,3 ,1, ... mj j jk k k  from all *jC , where | |jm e= . Subsequently, 
iS  computes the cluster key 1,2 2,3 ,11 ( , , , ... )mj j jj n jCK H s e k k k= . Finally, iS  erases the polynomial functions 
1( , )f x y  and the master key 1MK . 
 
 14
 
Node capture attacks 
Node capture attacks are the main threats of WSNs. Sensor nodes are easily to be captured and compromised 
because they are often deployed in hostile environments and not tamper resistant. Therefore, if an adversary 
captures some sensor nodes and obtains the secret data of the nodes, a secure key management protocol for 
WSNs should provide some mechanisms to mitigate the risk. 
 
If an adversary captures a sensor node Si in the r-th deployment time interval, it can get its individual keys, 
cluster keys and current system parameter sn in the proposed protocol. Although the adversary can get current 
transmissions of clusters that contain Si, the adversary has no chance to get individual keys and cluster keys 
of Si before the r-th deployment time interval. Since these previous keys are erased already. Thus, the 
proposed protocol provides weak backward secrecy. Moreover, when the BS detects that Si  has been 
captured, the BS will launch the dynamic remove protocol immediately. In the dynamic protocol, the BS will 
send a black list B and the new system parameter sn’ to all non-captured nodes. Since Si is in B, the adversary 
cannot get sn’ to compute future clusters keys. Therefore, the proposed protocol provides weak forward 
secrecy. 
 
Node cloning attacks 
In node cloning attacks, an adversary prepares its own node with the keys of a compromised node, and then 
deploys this node in different locations in the WSN. The proposed protocol can clearly resist node cloning 
attacks. Suppose the adversary deploys a cloned node in the r-th deployment time interval. This new 
deployed node must use the master key MKr to compute CHj’s individual key ( , )rj j rIK H CH MK=  in R2 of 
the dynamic insert phase. However, since all sensor nodes erase their master keys after deployments, the 
adversary has no chance to get MKr. Therefore, node cloning attacks cannot work in the proposed protocol. 
 
Wormhole attacks 
In wormhole attacks, a malicious node tries to cheat its neighbors that it is very near the base station. Thus, 
the malicious node can collect and drop all data from the neighbors and let the real base station cannot get 
any information from that area. Typically, the wormhole attacks require two distant malicious nodes, which 
have an invisible link underlying sensor network. The adversary deploys one malicious node close to the base 
station and the other close to the interested area. The adversary could convince the nodes of the interested 
area that the malicious node is near the base station by using the invisible link. 
The proposed protocol can easily detect wormhole attacks. After deployment, a sensor node has all member 
lists of its clusters. Thus, every sensor node can know the network topology. The adversary has no way to 
interpolate fake sensor nodes. 
 
Energy consumption attacks 
Due to the limited battery volume of sensor nodes, security protocols for WSNs must be energy efficient. 
However, the adversary can deploy some malicious nodes which repeatly broadcast non-sense messages to 
consume the energy of normal nodes. 
 
In order to join a WSN, new deployed nodes must know the secret keys to compute correct cluster keys in the 
proposed protocol. Thus, if the adversary does not compromise a deployed sensor node and get the secret 
keys, it cannot launch energy consumption attack. On the other hand, if the adversary compromise a sensor 
node and use it to perform energy consumption attack, the neighbors of the malicious node can detect this 
attack and warn the base station. After that, the base station will launch the dynamic remove protocol to omit 
the malicious node. Therefore, energy consumption attacks fail in the proposed protocol. 
 
CONCLUSION 
This study proposes a novel key management protocol for hierarchical WSNs based on hypergraph. In the 
proposed protocol, the base station divides the sensor nodes into n groups and randomly deploys them in n 
 16
Shen, A.-N., Guo, S., & Leung, V. (2009). A Flexible and Efficient Key Distribution Scheme for Renewable 
Wireless Sensor Networks. Hindawi Publishing Corporation EURASIP Journal on Wireless Communications 
and Networking . 
Walters, J. P., Liang, Z., Shi, W., & Chaudhary, V. (2006). Wireless Sensor Network Security: A Survey. (Y. 
Xiao, Ed.) Security in Distributed, Grid, and Pervasive Computing . 
Yu, Z., & Guan, Y. (2005). A Key Pre-distribution Scheme Using Deployment Knowledge for Wireless 
Sensor Networks., (pp. 261-268). 
Zhu, S., Setia, S., & Jajodia, S. (2006). LEAP+: Efficient security mechanisms for large-scale distributed 
sensor networks. ACM Trans. on Sensor Networks , 2 (4), pp. 500-528. 
 
 
  
 2
也參與了多場 Session的研討，並在這些 Session中與學者 Tian-Fu Lee, Narn-Yih Lee, Chow-Sing Lin, 
Yi-Hsing Chang 等人就資訊安全、多媒體訊號處理與資訊管理系統等相關研究主題進行深入的討
論，獲得許多未來研究方向的啟發。此外，在本次大會中也認識許多不同領域的學者專家，相信
未來在進行跨領域的整合研究時，可以和這些學者專家們組成研究團隊，以提升整體的研究能量。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
四、建議 
本次十分感謝國科會補助經費讓我們參與 BAI2010 國際學術研討會，能有機會和各國學者進行學
術交流，並吸收許多新知，感到獲益良多，也對於後續的研究主題有新的領會。建議國科會未來
可擴大補助國內相關領域之專家學者及學生參與，對學術能量的提升確實能有所助益，因為參與
國際研討會可以了解目前各國學者之研究成果與方向的資訊，有助於國內相關研究領域的提升與
超越。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
BAI2010 論文集光碟 1 片。 
六、其他 
以下為參與本次研討會的相關照片。 
 
 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
