 
2 
 
4.2.1 Input Parameters of Simulation ........................................................................ 31 
4.2.2 Narrow Excavation ........................................................................................... 32 
4.2.3 Wide Excavation ............................................................................................... 34 
4.3 Soil Profile: Constant Undrained Shear Strength .................................................... 36 
4.3.1 Input Parameters of Simulation ........................................................................ 36 
4.3.2 Narrow Excavation ........................................................................................... 37 
4.3.2 Wide Excavation ............................................................................................... 39 
4.4 Discussion ............................................................................................................... 42 
Chapter 5 EFFECT OF WALL STIFFNESS AND WALL PENETRATION 
DEPTH AGAINST BASAL HEAVE STABILITY IN DEEP EXCAVATION ........ 43 
5.1 Introduction ............................................................................................................. 43 
5.2 Effect of wall stiffness against basal heave stability in deep excavation ................ 44 
5.2.1 Wall thickness equals to 0.5 meter ................................................................... 44 
5.2.2 Wall thickness equal to 0.6 meter ..................................................................... 45 
5.2.3 Wall thickness equal to 0.7 meter ..................................................................... 45 
5.2.4 Wall thickness equal to 0.8 and 0.9 meter ........................................................ 45 
5.2.5 Wall thickness equal to 1.0 and 1.1 meter ........................................................ 46 
5.2.6 Wall thickness equal to 1.2 meter ..................................................................... 47 
5.3 Effect of wall penetration depth against basal heave stability in deep excavation . 47 
5.3.1 Wall penetration depth equal to 10.55m. .......................................................... 47 
5.3.2 Wall penetration depth equal to 13.55 m .......................................................... 48 
5.3.3 Wall penetration depth equal to 16.55 m .......................................................... 48 
5.3.4 Wall penetration depth equal to 19.55 m .......................................................... 49 
5.3.5 Wall penetration depth equal to 21.55 m .......................................................... 49 
5.4 Summary and Discussion ........................................................................................ 49 
5.4.1 Summary ........................................................................................................... 49 
5.4.2 Discussion ......................................................................................................... 50 
Chapter 6 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE RESEARCH ......................................... 51 
6.1 Conclusion ............................................................................................................... 51 
6.2 Future Research ....................................................................................................... 53 
REFERENCES ................................................................................................................ 54 
4 
 
Chapter 2 summarizes some theories and recent studies on deep excavations in 
soft clay. The conventional methods are recollected including Terzaghi’s, Bjerrum & 
Eide’s, and slip circle methods.  With the finite element method, the strength reduction 
method developed by many authors is shown. Then, there are applications of this method 
to investigate factors affecting basal heave stability. Research about deformation effect is 
counted on also. 
Chapter 3 presents characteristic of the analysis with updated mesh. A case history 
is used to compare results generated by the analyses with and without updated mesh.  
After that, estimation methods are evaluated with calculation of safety factor against 
basal heave. Three case histories in soft clay are studied and factors of safety are 
discussed at the end of this chapter. 
Chapter 4 verifies width effect based on parametric study. Scores of width values 
are assumed to compute corresponding factors of safety. An interesting conclusion is got 
there. 
Chapter 5 presents the study on the effect of wall stiffness and wall penetration 
depth against basal heave stability analyses. Here, several variations of wall stiffness and 
wall penetration depth were simulated in order to obtain the factor of safety. 
Finally, chapter 6 draws several conclusions and recommends future research. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
 
and He is excavation depth. Figure 2.3 shows modified failure surface when retaining 
wall is used. Importantly, failure surface must develop under penetration depth of wall. It 
can be seen that Terzaghi’s method is quite simple since its failure surface bases on a few 
parameters. It should be used for wide excavation. 
Bjerrum & Eide’s method is a negative bearing method. Besides excavation width 
and depth, it takes excavation length into account. A new factor, namely bearing capacity 
factor Nc, is adopted (Bjerrum et al.., 1956). In addition, Bjerrum and Eide broaden 
circular shape of failure surface above excavation level instead of straight path as 
Terzaghi does. Figure 2.4 shows enlargement of failure surface in this method. Factor of 
safety is determined by following formula: 
 
se
uc
b
qH
sN
F



.
  ( 2 . 3 ) 
Where su is undrained shear strength of soil;  is total unit weight of soil; and qs is 
surcharge. 
In order to count on an appearance of many layers in soil profile, this method is 
extended as in Figure 2.5 and Eq. 2.4  
e
sdscu
b
H
ffNs
F

,1
    ( 2 . 4 ) 
Where su1 is undrained shear strength of the upper clay; Nc,s is bearing capacity factor; fd, 
fs are depth and shape correction factor, respectively;  and He are the same as before. 
Because this method includes excavation shape in assessment, it is effective for both 
wide and narrow excavations. 
Slip circle method is another way to estimate factor of safety against basal heave. 
While the two previous methods fix failure surface during analysis, this one changes that 
surface to investigate a variation of safety factor indeed. The minimum value of safety 
factor and corresponding surface will be accepted as the final result. Normally, suitable 
failure surface centers at lowest level of struts and passes through tip of wall (Liu et al., 
1997) as shown in Figure 2.6. Furthermore, only a circular part of that surface is utilized 
to resist driving factor. As a result, this method usually generates a lowest result in 
comparison with the preceding methods. Factor of safety is the ratio of resistant moment 
Mr to driving moment Md. 
8 
 
cccc c
c
c
c
S
S
factorSafety




tan
tan
tan'
tan'
0




   
( 2 . 6 ) 
Right subscript c denoted critical strength parameter at which equilibrium state remained 
and just a little smaller strength was enough to cause collapse. An additional technique 
was employed in Plaxis was arc – length control. This tool would limit difference 
between algebraic and analytical results with arc path. Through a number of iterations, 
achieved solution gradually closed to theoretical value until their difference was lower 
than tolerated error. Stability of a river embankment was taken for example. Figure 2.8 
presented its finite element model. Strength reduction and displacement of crest point 
were plotted together in Figure 2.9. This figure calibrated effectiveness of the strength 
reduction method clearly. At strength reduction of 1.20, displacement of crest point 
exposed a dramatic increase. So, factor of safety was 1.20 for this case. 
Based on reduction of soil strength, the nodal displacement method was 
mentioned by Donald et al. (1988) in slope. A strength modification factor N played the 
role of strength reduction in this method. 





N
Ncc
.*
.*

  
( 2 . 7 )
 
Where  = tanand an asterisk denoted modified parameter. A specific node on failure 
surface where displacement was sensitive to reduction coefficient was selected. Then the 
relationship between selected nodal displacement and 1/N was plotted. Figure 2.10 
presented a typical relationship. It can be seen that, in that figure, Donald proposed a 
different way to determine factor of safety from Brinkgreve. Factor of safety or (1/N)crit 
came from a break – off point in nodal displacement curve. That point meant 
displacement of selected node started turning the extreme. Of course, it is not necessary 
to be maximum value of strength reduction. A simple homogeneous slope was taken for 
instance. Figure 2.11 showed soil properties, geometry, and chosen node # 63 of this 
slope. An increase in displacement of node # 63 was drawn in Figure 2.12. (1/N)crit was 
equal to 1.06. It was much lower than maximum value of 1.3. 
The two methods expressed by Brinkgreve et al. (1991) and Donald et al. (1988) 
originated in reduction of soil strength. But they estimate factor of safety at dissimilar 
ways. Brinkgreve’s judgment relies on the final equilibrium state that body soil remains 
10 
 
hard stratum was, the more stable excavation got. When T/B was large, deep hard stratum 
almost had no effect on stability. Terzaghi’s and modified Bjerrum & Eide’s methods also 
proved this trend. The ratio of penetration depth of wall to depth of hard stratum, D/T 
index, also impacted on basal heave stability. Factor of safety rose with a greater value of 
D/T index. However, in case of deep hard stratum, effect of D/T index tended to 
elimination. Roles of wall stiffness and excavation width were checked by Goh. But it 
was not sufficient enough to announce. 
Faheem et al. (2003) provided an additional parametric study on excavation 
stability in soft soil. He used the shear strength reduction method based on convergence 
criterion. Impaction of hard stratum, penetration depth was confirmed in this research. 
Denotations for parametric study were plotted in Figure 2.15. Effect of excavation width 
was illustrated in Figure 2.16. That is relationship between normalized displacement,  
and shear strength reduction factor, F. 
)(
max
THs
E
u
u



  ( 2 . 8 ) 
Where max was the maximum nodal displacement in the base of excavation. In this case, 
T = Tc = 2/B and D = 0. Thus, hard stratum and penetration depth of wall didn’t affect 
mobilization of failure surface. It was recognized that factor of safety rose corresponding 
to an increase in H/B ratio. When excavation turned from wide (H/B < 1) into narrow 
shape (H/B > 1), it would be more stable. Figure 2.17 presented factor of safety versus 
wall stiffness. Here H/B = 0.75 and T = Tc = 2/B . On the whole, a rising amount of 
wall stiffness was followed by an increase in safety factor. This effect became clearer 
when D/T ratio was large. At nil value of D/T ratio, wall stiffness didn’t influence on 
stability. 
Langen (1991) in his dissertation took large deformation effect into account for 
analysis of collapse load. The updated Lagrangnian formulations were adapted for the 
finite element method. It followed that known deformed shape of an object at time t was 
considered as a referential configuration for unknown shape at time t + t. Furthermore, 
the Hill stress rate was applied to include change in Cartesian stress components when 
mesh element rotates. Firstly, a circular footing on sandy soil was tested to fail under a 
concentrated load. And Figure 2.18 showed finite element mesh for simulation of this test. 
12 
 
cases, this effect becomes stronger as studied by Langen (1991). Therefore, the author 
will regard this effect in the current work.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 
 
two systems of sheet – pile wall were driven which were highlighted by bold line in 
Figure 3.1. They had approximately 10 m depth and penetrated 1 m below final 
excavation level. They surrounded the excavated zone and spaced 13 m to each other. 
Thus, the second block was divided into outer and inner areas by the wall systems. The 
13 meter – wide outer area was excavated firstly. To remain stability of soil during 
excavation procedure, this outer area was divided into many sections which were dash 
lines in Figure 3.1. Each of them lengthened no more than 19 m. Excavation procedure 
started at the sections No. 4, 14 and 19 and afterwards it went further in both opposite 
directions as marked by arrows in Figure 3.1. Next section would be conducted if 
previous one finished excavation. And after excavation, two – storey basements would be 
built in sections of the outer area. As long as sections at the corners next to the Akerselva 
culvert constructed completely their basements, excavation in the inner area should go on 
from the Akerselva culvert to the tower building. Also, this area was cut into many 
sections denoted by dash lines to reduce instability of soil. Within this inner area, the 
principle of excavation was that each section began whenever casting two – storey 
basement in preceding one finished. 
In addition, in Figure 3.1, it displays arrangement of measurement instruments. 
The measurement data of the inclinometers No. 4 and 7, 8 are shown in Figure 3.2 and 
3.3, respectively. Within the section No. 19, strut load was recorded and presented in 
Figure 3.4. With full measurement data of wall deformation and strut load, the section No. 
19 of the outer area creates an excellent opportunity for stability analysis. Hence, from 
now on, the author barely pays attention to analyze problems arising from excavation of 
this section. 
At the construction site, the ground surface inclined from north (the Gunnerus 
Street) to south boundary with amount change from 1 to 1.5 meter. The site contained 
five layers of silty clay and clay overlying uneven bedrock whose depth increased from 
west to east as indicated in Figure 3.5. The 2 to 3 meter thick top soil was miscellaneous 
fill while the rest is soft to medium clay. From Figure 3.5, along its depth, clayey soil 
almost had a constant plastic index of 20% and sensitivity value decreased in general. 
The remarkable point here is an appearance of medium weathered clay in the middle 
which had a low plastic index and sensitivity. Such phenomenon is probably due to 
16 
 
after 100 days matched well with period of construction and average undrained shear 
strength got around 0.35 t/m
2
. Consequently, Rinter was about 0.2 between clay and the 
sheet – pile wall. For sandy soil, this value was 0.67. In sum, Table 3.1 collects soil input 
parameters of this case. 
Chosen geometry of finite elements was asymmetry. The reason is an existence of 
surcharge and higher ground elevation on the side of the Gunnerus Street. Vertical 
dimension of geometry was equal to the depth of bedrock where no deformation took 
place. Horizontal dimension, on the other hand, should be large enough to not allow 
plastic points reaching vertical boundaries of geometry. Figure 3.8 presents the geometry 
for the current analysis. It was believed to meet that requirement. In that figure, soil 
layers were divided primarily into 1 m and 2 m thick sub layers. Also, very fine mesh 
function was selected.     
Information on strut stiffness was unknown in this case but strut load and wall 
deformation were recorded during excavation procedure in the section No. 19. To deal 
with this problem, a solution was proposed. It firstly set preload aside and then computed 
effective strut stiffness from measured wall deformation and strut load with following 
formula. 
  


PL
EAe                                                                                                                (3.1) 
Where 
EAe is effective strut stiffness 
P is strut load 
L is length of strut 
 is axial strut deformation 
In this section, the strut system contained 4 layers. Each of them had 4 struts numbered 8, 
9, 10 and 11. Their spacing and strut load were presented in Figure 3.4. Only two sets of 
load data were notable. They were accompanied by December 6
th
, 1972 (stage 9) and 
December 21
st
, 1972 (stage 12). The strut layer A absented in this figure, thus, stayed out 
of concern. Let’s assume roughly that two sides of the sheet – pile wall buckled equally 
and rigid connection existed between the strut and the wall. Consequently, axial strut 
deformation was able to double value indicated by the inclinometer No.4 in Figure 3.2. 
18 
 
Figures 3.13 and 3.14.  In these figures, the left and right walls bulk gradually from stage 
2 to 6 and suddenly kick out at stage 7. Moreover, whole left wall is pushed forcedly into 
left with negative displacement values at the upper part. It proves obviously asymmetric 
feature of the Oslo case. Soil heaving, in contrast, shows special properties. Only soil 
surrounding the walls maximizes its heave, especially at right, while at the center it 
doesn’t either. For this case, wall deformation affects heaving more than movement of 
soil flow under the excavation. With settlement, due to asymmetric feature of the 
excavation, soil near on the ground surface has a little heave before settle down while at 
the right side, settlement is dominant. 
3.2.3.2 The Finite Element Analysis with Updated Mesh 
Calculation process of the analysis with updated mesh is shown in Figure 3.15. 
This way takes advantage of the updated Lagrangian formulations. It follows that within 
calculation phase, deformed mesh in previous step is defined as a reference configuration 
for current one. And deformed mesh at the last step of the previous phase is an initial 
mesh of the first step in the next phase. As a result, none of load steps repeats structural 
stiffness matrix of previous one. This matrix itself needs to include new displacement of 
deformed elements in computation. Additionally, new stress and strain measures should 
be concerned for large deformation problem instead of normal engineering stress and 
strain, such as the second Piola – Kirchhoff stress and the Green – Lagrange strain. 
Besides, rotation of elements causes Cartesian stress components to vary no matter its 
current strain value. Thus, stress rate is regarded to solve this problem. Also, constitutive 
equation of this analysis often contains stress, stress rate and strain rate in place of simple 
stress and strain.  
In the analysis with updated mesh, all input parameters and geometry in the 
previous analysis are remained. Besides selection of updated mesh, it is necessary to 
choose updated pore water pressure function since this pressure varies among different 
calculation steps. This update option was applied to all stages. If the analysis with 
updated mesh calculation follows a calculation without updated mesh, Plaxis will require 
using Reset displacement to zero function. It reasons that a series of the updated mesh 
analysis must start from an undeformed geometry. It is meaningless particularly when 
displacement is the greatest concern of the study. An inverse order between them, on the 
20 
 
are presented in Table 3.5 and Figure 3.25. It is observed that the difference index is very 
sensitive to |h|max/He. 
Some conclusions are made as follows.  
1. When deformation is small or low value of |h|max/He, the difference between the 
analyses with and without updated mesh is acceptable. Taking stage 2 for instance, 
wall deflection, settlement and even soil heaving by the two methods are quite 
close to each other.  
2. In case of large deformation or high value of |h|max/He, the updated mesh analysis 
generates a lower magnitude of reaction in soil and the retaining wall than the rest 
one. Also it is more reasonable from the fact that it ran successfully all stages 
while the analysis without updated mesh couldn’t and the excavation procedure 
really reached the final level in the Oslo case. But, it is admitted that updated 
mesh analysis itself produced much larger right wall deflection than measurement 
of the inclinometer No. 4 as shown in Figure 3.23. 
Based on these conclusions, the analysis with updated mesh will be adopted to 
calculate basal heave stability of the Oslo case and two Taipei cases. 
3.2.4 Basal Heave Analysis 
To study further, the automatic c – phi reduction method, so called safety 
calculation supplied by Plaxis was implemented. It is a calculation phase starting from 
the final excavation stage. And it will compute factor of safety for this stage. For the 
updated mesh analysis, process of this function is illustrated in Figure 3.26. Strength of 
soil and interface in terms of tanand c will be reduced consecutively until soil body 
collapses. To measure the amount of strength reduction, total multiplier Msf is used by 
Plaxis which is the ratio of original strength parameter to current one. It is required to 
satisfy two criteria. The first is executing successfully all additional steps. Each of the 
steps corresponds to a separate value of Msf. Values of Msf sometimes are not 
necessary to different from each other. Sometimes, Plaxis repeats value of Msf to 
calculate. Secondly, soil element must exhibit entirely failure which denotes at a huge 
increase in nodal displacement while Msf is constant. If not, the number of additional 
steps is small and needs be added. Final value of Msf is found as a global safety factor 
22 
 
Figure 3.30 demonstrates principle of the angle method. It is proposed to verify 
kick out phenomenon. The retaining wall kicks out when the inclined angle of its lower 
part, 1 is greater than that of its upper part, 2. Factor of safety is defined as the SR 
value at which wall nearly kicks out. It is noticeable that for the Oslo case, even at the 
highest value of SR, the right wall doesn’t kick out whereas the left wall does at SR lower 
than 0.7. As a result, the angle method gives diverse results here.  
Figures 3.31 and 3.32 plot wall deformation, soil heaving and settlement at 
various SR values of this case study. Apparently, the left wall almost comes to a marginal 
deformation. Its curve changes a little with an increase in SR values. In contrast, the right 
wall’s deformation still grows. Heaving of bottom soil gets to a maximum value at the 
center of the excavated zone. It proves that movement of soil beneath the excavation is 
stronger than wall deformation at the final stage. The increase in settlement of the ground 
surface at both side of the excavation is the same as in wall deformation.     
The conventional methods including Terzaghi’s method, Bjerrum & Eide’s 
method, and slip circle method are included for reference. All methods are collected in 
Table 3.6. In general, all numerical methods estimate safety factors around unit. But none 
of the conventional methods indicates factor of safety larger than 1.The automatic 
strength reduction method and Terzaghi’s method have the highest estimations in these 
groups while the intersection method and slip circle method provide the lowest values.    
3.3 The Taipei Case 1 
3.3.1 Overview 
The Taipei case 1 had shape of 100.08 m x 25.8 m. It stood at the corner of streets 
as shown in Figure 3.33. Diaphragm wall and steel strut were constructed for the 
retaining system. Wall was 0.7 m thick and 24 m deep. Strut layers placed around 0.8m 
over excavation level. Their spacing varied from 4.1 m to 5.8 m. Their sections were H 
300x300x10x15, H 350x350x12x19, and H 400x400x13x21. Information on struts can be 
seen in Figure 3.34, 3.35.  
Soil profile and construction sequence were presented in Figure 3.35. There were 
4 layers of sandy and clayey soil at this site. Of them, back fill distributed above the 
ground level (GL) of -8.7 m. From GL -8.7 m to GL-10.7 m was sandy soil. And thick 
24 
 
around 0.3,  value is 0.67. Secondly, a series of pulling test was carried out with bored 
piles in Oslo clay (Aas, 1976). Every two piles were cast in 4 different supporting fluids 
including water, clay slurry, mikrosil slurry and bentonite slurry. All piles were 0.25 m in 
diameter and 6 m in length ranging from 16 m to 22 m depth. Each of them was 
constructed within one day and pulling tests took 1.5 months to finish with rates of 1.0 
and 0.1 mm/min. Figure 3.39 presents test results. Su* is shear strength determined from 
the tests. Also, at that site, vane strength Su was 31 kN/m
2
 at a rate of 0.5 mm/min. 
Finally, Table 3.8 shows calculated ratio Su*/Su. For bentonite slurry, the ratio is 0.69. 
Because bentonite slurry is quite popular in drilling retaining wall and pile, it is 
noticeable. Such two researches convince that a ratio of 0.67 is reliable for Taipei clay. So, 
strength reduction factor of interface was 0.67. With sandy soil, due to lack of sufficient 
study, the ratio of 0.67 was supposed. Soil input parameters for simulation of the Taipei 
case 1 were summarized in Table 3.9. 
It was assumed that in a direction parallel to the short edge, soil elements worked 
under the plain strain condition and symmetric property was acceptable. Thus, only a half 
of the Taipei case 1 was modeled. Geometry had 70 m x 44.7 m in dimension. It gathered 
all soil layers except hard stratum below 44.7 m depth where no deformation occurred. 
Furthermore, very fine mesh option and 3 – meter – thickness layer were adopted to well 
illustrate soil behavior. Figure 3.40 shows selected geometry for simulation. 
Also in Figure 3.40, the diaphragm wall and the struts were modeled with plate 
and fixed – end anchor element, respectively. Only 80% stiffness of wall was used 
counting for appearance of crack under working condition. Besides, reduction factor of 
60% was applied to strut’s axial stiffness because strut line was not entirely straight as 
constructed, it was used so many times, and soil heaving indirectly reduced its capacity. 
Structural input parameters were presented in Table 3.10. 
Table 3.11 gives information about calculation stages in Plaxis. Five stages are 
enough to model construction sequence of this case.  
 3.3.3 Basal Heave Analysis 
Computation was executed successfully by Plaxis. Plastic point plot was shown in 
Figure 3.41. Around tip of the wall, plastic points exhibit visually a failure surface. Also, 
26 
 
With the angle method, wall deformation at various SR values was investigated. 
For the Taipei case, the wall kicked out at SR of 1.13. Therefore, factor of safety is 1.12 
with this method. Figure 3.45 plots wall deformation, soil heaving and settlement relating 
to different SR values at the final stage. In this figure, it is observed that at SR of 1.12, 
wall is actually on the verge of kick out. And, at maximum SR of 1.95, the wall and soil 
exhibit extremely displacement. 
Besides, the conventional methods including Terzaghi’s method, Bjerrum & 
Eide’s method, and slip circle method are referred. Table 3.12 summarizes the results of 
all methods. Generally, the numerical methods provide greater estimations than the 
conventional methods. The manual strength reduction method and Terzaghi’s method 
indicate the highest values in two groups while the intersection method and slip circle 
methods generate the lowest values. In addition, the intersection method, Bjerrum & 
Eide’s method, and slip circle method have estimation around unit. Because the Taipei 
case 1 is a failure case, these methods are reasonable. 
3.4 The Taipei Case 2 
3.4.1 Overview 
The Taipei case 2 was a rectangular of 45 m x 12.3 m in shape. In Figure 3.46, 
basal heave failure occurred definitely. It caused an inclination of the neighboring house 
and pushing upward of king posts. The retaining system of this case included diaphragm 
wall and steel strut. Wall was 0.5m thick and varied from 13.8 m to 17 m in depth. Strut 
lines spaced evenly around 4.5 m as shown in Figure 3.47. 
Figure 3.48 presents sub - soil profile and construction sequence. There were 4 
stages of excavation with maximum depth of 9.3 m. The overall collapse occurred when 
construction reached this depth. This site was filled with 4 soil layers above hard stratum 
at GL - 41 m. Most of them were clayey soil. The ground water level was at GL – 1.5m. 
Considering the uniform nature of the Taipei basin, a series of test was carried out 
at the location which was 500 m distance to the excavation area. Soil ranging from GL – 
5.5 m to GL – 41 m was investigated. Table 3.13 and Figure 3.49 show CU test data for 
this range. It follows that clayey soil is truly homogeneous with constant total unit weight 
28 
 
3.16.  
3.4.2 Basal Heave Analysis 
Plaxis executed completely all excavation stages. Plastic points at the final stage 
were plotted in Figure 3.52. Distribution of plastic points surrounding the diaphragm wall 
depicts clearly a failure surface. Plastic points near the ground surface, on the other hand, 
exhibit a settlement of soil. In this case, settlement develops until the right boundary of 
geometry.  
Output results of the wall and soil were summarized in Figures 3.53 and 3.54. It 
can be seen that the diaphragm wall deforms gradually during the excavation and kicks 
out at the final stage. Settlement reaches the utmost value somewhere close to the wall 
whereas maximum heave locates at the center of the excavated zone. In general, behavior 
of soil and the wall at the right side visually appears stronger than on the left. Such 
asymmetry is because of the surcharge brought by the adjacent house on this site. 
The automatic c – phi reduction method was carried out to compute factor of 
safety at the final stage. Three points at tip of the wall and center of the excavation 
involving in the final stage were selected to observe displacement. The displacements at 
these points are sensitive to reduction of shear strength in soil. Hence, it is easier to 
determine factor of safety at this case. Relationship between the nodal displacements and 
Msf value was plotted in Figure 3.55. These curves perform a clear failure at which 
deformations continue to increase at Msf of 1.55. So, factor of safety is determined as 
1.55. 
With the manual c – phi reduction method, every value of reduced shear strength 
at the final stage was calculated by separate phases in Plaxis until it announces that “soil 
body collapses”. All phases started from the phase of the final excavation stage. In this 
case, soil body failed at SR of 2.32. Therefore, factor of safety was defined at 2.31. This 
value is much higher than that of the automatic method. Different effectiveness of the 
updated mesh option on the two methods may be the reason for this. And it has been 
discussed in section 3.2.4. Furthermore, both the automatic and manual methods 
overestimate this case. With safety factors of 1.55 and 2.32, the Taipei case 2 is no longer 
30 
 
surface and mobilization of passive and active soil pressures in the conventional 
methods. Also the numerical methods and the conventional methods don’t define 
failure as the same way. The numerical methods base on convergence criterion in the 
finite element method while the conventional methods evaluate equilibrium state of 
retaining wall under driven and resistance factors.  
2. Among the numerical methods, both the automatic and manual c – phi reduction 
methods base on the shear strength reduction method. However, due to incomplete 
impaction of the updated mesh analysis on them, they did create a little difference. 
The Taipei case 2 shows clearly such thing. Furthermore, the two methods estimated 
factor of safety over than 1 at two Taipei failure cases. This is unreasonable. One of 
the main reasons is that they exclude a decrease in capacity of retaining system when 
basal heave occurs. As shown in Figure 3.59, when soil at bottom of the excavation 
heaves, it causes center posts to move upward. As a result of this, struts are bent and 
lose their function. 
3. The anlge method based strongly on curve of wall deformation. So, when wall 
doesn’t kick out, it is difficult to use this method. This method also gives result 
higher than unit for three cases. 
4. The intersection method's result is closest unit for three case histories. This is the 
most suitable method. In essence, it considers a wide – ranging change of structure 
and soil’s behavior during strength reduction procedure. Hence, it overcomes 
unstable running caused by Plaxis when soil body nearly collapses. However, it is 
aware that it hasn’t displayed a significant decrease at three cases while all 
conventional methods do. At SR values lower than one such as 0.7, 0.8 and 0.9, wall 
deformation and soil heaving aren’t changed strongly from that relating to SR of unit. 
In contrast, at SR values larger than one, they show a greater change in response of 
wall and soil. The reason is that at large SR values, plastic behavior in soil elements 
becomes robust with larger number of plastic points. Therefore, the intersection 
method hardly generates value lower than 1. 
The conventional methods generally estimate quite well three cases since their 
factors of safety close to unit. Among them, Terzaghi’s method always provides the 
greatest value while slip circle method gets lowest one. 
32 
 
0.495. Eu was determined from Su with the ratio Eu/Su of 450. Undrained shear strength 
in turn was computed from the normalized value Su/v’ of 0.25.  
To model interaction between clay and diaphragm wall, the Rinter of 0.67 were 
applied to interface element in Plaxis. 
All of parametric studies in this section had the same symmetric characteristic as 
the Taipei case 1. Thus, they were modeled with a half of the excavation. In addition, 
only one material layer was used for clayey soil because Plaxis allowed assigning a 
gradual increase in undrained shear strength and Young modulus. Besides, very fine mesh 
function was optioned to geometries. It would generate more sufficient output data for 
analysis. 
The diaphragm wall and the struts were modeled with plate and fixed – end 
anchor element, respectively. Only 80% stiffness of wall was used counting for 
appearance of crack under working condition. Besides, reduction factor of 60% was 
applied to strut’s axial stiffness because strut line was not entirely straight as constructed, 
it was used so many times, and soil heaving indirectly reduced its capacity. It is 
noticeable that when excavation width changes, stiffness or ratio EA/L of struts was 
remained. In order to have this, equivalent length of fixed – end anchor which modeled 
struts was constant of 12.9 m. Structural input parameters were presented in Table 4.1. 
Table 4.2 gives information about calculation stages in Plaxis. Five stages are 
enough to model construction sequence of this case.  
4.2.2 Narrow Excavation 
For narrow excavation at which B/He = 0.96, simulation was carried out with 
input parameters in section 4.2.1. Plaxis executed successfully whole the excavation 
procedure. Plastic points of this case were shown in Figure 4.2. It can be seen that 
distribution of plastic points surrounding tip of the wall depicts clearly a failure surface. 
Furthermore, crowded appearance of plastic points at the left boundary of geometry 
means failure surfaces at both sides overlapped under the excavation.  
Figure 4.3 presents response of the wall and soil during the excavation procedure. 
34 
 
safety of 1.04, 1.01 and 1.01, respectively. 
It is observed that all of the intersection method and conventional methods 
estimate factor of safety around unit. The narrow excavation nearly fails with these 
methods. The automatic and manual methods, in contrast, give very large value of safety 
factor. The excavation is stable with these methods.  
4.2.3 Wide Excavation 
For wide excavations with B/He from 1.92 to 9.59, simulations remain using input 
parameters in section 4.2.1. However, the dimensions of geometry were different with 
every wide excavation. Plaxis did compute successfully all these cases and plastic points 
were plotted in Figures 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 4.10, and 4.11. From these plots, plastic points reach 
the left boundary of geometry only when B/He = 1.92. It means that failure surfaces 
overlap below the excavation. However, this phenomenon doesn’t occur at rest. In 
addition, distributions of plastic points are not different in Figure 4.8, 4.9, 4.10, and 4.11. 
Obviously, failure surface doesn’t change when B/He > 1.92. It is interesting that this 
feature contrasts with assumption of Terzaghi and Bjerrum & Eide in their methods at 
which size of failure surface is proportional to excavation width. 
Output results of the wall and soil were summarized in Figures 4.12, 4.13, 4.14, 
4.15, and 4.16. At all wide cases, the deeper level the excavation reaches, the more 
response of the wall and soil is. In case of B/He > 1.92, it is recognized that magnitude of 
wall deformation, settlement, and soil heaving doesn’t change so much no matter how 
wide the excavation is. In addition, locations of maximum settlement and heave remain 
15 m and 10 m far from the wall, respectively. From the previous plots of plastic points, 
failure surface is constant when B/He > 1.92. It is thereby inferred that movement of soil 
flow behind the retaining wall and under the excavation has nothing to do with an 
increase in excavation width. It reasons for stable magnitude of wall deformation, 
settlement, and soil heaving. In general, wall doesn’t kick out at all cases. 
The automatic c – phi reduction method was carried out to compute factor of 
safety at the final stage. Two points at tip of the wall and center of the excavation 
involving in the final stage were selected to observe displacement. The displacements at 
these points are sensitive to reduction of shear strength in soil. Hence, it is easier to 
determine factor of safety at this case. Relationship between the nodal displacements and 
36 
 
Furthermore, wall deformation, soil heaving and settlement were plotted at the 
final excavation stage and different SR values in Figures 4.27, 4.28, 4.29, 4.30, and 4.31. 
When SR values increases, response of the wall and soil becomes robust, too. Particularly, 
the lower part of the wall deforms gradually whereas the lower part doesn’t. The reason is 
that the upper part is restrained by the strut system. And when SR values equal to factors 
of safety by the angle method, wall nearly kicks out at all cases. It confirms estimations 
by the angle method. Locations of maximum settlement and heave change in associate 
with SR values. However, heave never reaches utmost value at the center of the 
excavation regardless SR values when B/He > 1.92.  
The conventional methods are referred for comparison and all results are 
summarized in Table 4.3. It is observed that both Terzaghi’s and Bjerrum & Eide’s 
methods generate rising values of safety factors associated with an increase in excavation 
width. In their assumptions, size of failure surface is proportional to width while soil 
strength in turn increases with depth. That is the reason why their estimations are 
sensitive to change in width. In contrast, with clip circle method, factors of safety are 
unchangeable because this method excludes excavation width in assumption. When B/He 
= 1.92, all conventional methods indicate safety factors close to unit. It follows that 
failure nearly occurs in this case. When B/He > 1.92, Terzaghi’s method and Bjerrum & 
Eide’s method predict stability in the excavations but neither does slip circle method.  
Also in Table 4.3, all numerical methods generally agree with slip circle method 
since their results are almost constant involved in variation of width. Among them, the 
manual strength reduction usually gives the highest factors of safety while the 
intersection method creates the lowest ones. With factors of safety around 1.1, the 
intersection method predicts excessive deformation at all wide cases. With other 
numerical methods, factors of safety are larger than 1.2, therefore, these wide cases are 
stable. 
4.3 Soil Profile: Constant Undrained Shear Strength 
4.3.1 Input Parameters of Simulation 
This section remains using the Mohr Coulomb model for analysis. Undrained 
material was applied to clayey soil. Its input parameters include unit weight of 18.8 
38 
 
the ground surface heaves a little near the wall. The wall doesn’t kick out at all 
excavation stages. With soil heaving, Maximum value was observed at the center of the 
excavation.  It proves that movement of soil flow beneath the excavation has stronger 
effect on soil heaving than deformation of the wall. 
First of all, the automatic c – phi reduction method was implemented to analyze 
stability of the excavation. Two nodes at tip of the wall and center of the excavation at the 
final stage were selected to observe displacement. The displacements of these nodes are 
sensitive to reduction of shear strength. Thus, the curve of displacement versus reduction 
coefficient, Msf  will show clearly failure. It can be seen in Figure 4.34 that at Msf 
value of 1.64, the two nodal displacements exhibit an excessive increase which are 
denoted by vertical parts of the curves. Consequently, safety factor is 1.64. It is a high 
value and the excavation is stable with this method. 
The manual strength reduction was carried on with the principle that shear 
strength of soil is reduced successively until Plaxis announces “soil body collapses”. 
Every reduced value of shear strength is calculated by a separate phase starting from the 
final excavation stage. In this case, soil failed at SR of 3.51. Hence, factor of safety was 
taken at 3.50. The manual method even indicates a much higher result than the automatic 
method. It also predicts a stability of the excavation. 
Based on data of the manual strength reduction method, maximum wall deflection, 
maximum heave and deformation at tip of the wall versus SR value are calibrated in 
Figure 4.35. In this figure, each of the three curves contains two parts. Obviously, the 
lower part corresponds to SR of 0.8, 0.9, and 1 while the upper part involves in SR of 1.1, 
1.2, and 1.3. If we stretch them, two parts will intersect each other at SR of 1.04. From 
the intersection point, deformation starts to increase largely. Hence, factor of safety is 
1.04 with the intersection method. It proves a near failure in case of B/He = 1.92. 
The angle method, on the other hand, investigates wall deformation in shape. 
Factor of safety with this method is 1.32. It indicates that the wall will kick out at SR of 
1.33. This is also a high value.  
40 
 
of wall deformation, soil heaving, and settlement is greater when excavation width 
increases. As in case of narrow excavation, stable deformation of the upper part of the 
wall, a little heave of ground surface close to the wall, and maximum soil heaving at 
center of the excavation are still observed. In comparison with the wide excavations as Su 
increase with depth, these observations are totally different. The reason is the 
development of failure surface with change in excavation width.   
The automatic c – phi reduction method was carried out to compute factor of 
safety at the final stage. Two points at tip of the wall and center of the excavation 
involving in the final stage were selected to observe displacement. The displacements at 
these points are sensitive to reduction of shear strength in soil. Hence, it is easier to 
determine factor of safety at these cases. Relationship between the nodal displacements 
and Msf value was plotted in Figures 4.47, 4.48, 4.49, 4.50, and 4.51. In these figures, 
all curves have vertical part at last. It depicts a full failure at which displacement keeps 
rising with a constant value of Msf. Therefore, factors of safety for these wide cases are 
1.42, 1.28, 1.24, 1.22, and 1.21. A decrease in safety factors is obvious. And at wider 
excavations, amount of reduction of this factor is small. It means effect of excavation 
width fades away when value of width rises. In addition, these high values of safety 
factors indicate stability of the wide excavations.  
With the manual c – phi reduction method, every value of reduced shear strength 
at the final stage was calculated by separate phases in Plaxis until it announces that “soil 
body collapses”. All phases started from the phase of the final excavation stage. When 
B/He = 1.92, 3.84, 5.75, 7.67, and 9.59, factors of safety are 3.29, 3.69, 4.22, 4.41, and 
4.47, respectively. This set of values is much higher than that of the automatic method 
and behaves contrast trend as well. Seemingly, with this manual method, the more 
excavation width is, the more effect it owns.  
The intersection method plotted maximum wall deflection, maximum soil heaving, 
and deformation at tip of the wall versus SR values in Figures 4.52, 4.53, 4.54, 4.55, and 
4.56. In these figures, all curves exhibit clearly two parts. The lower part corresponds to 
SR values of 0.8, 0.9, and 1.0 while the upper part relates to SR values of 1.1, 1.2, and 
1.3. If we stretch them, they will intersect each other. And from this point, an extreme 
increase in deformation can be observed when SR values change. Consequently, factor of 
42 
 
factors around 1.1, this method also predicts large deformation in the wide cases. 
4.4 Discussion 
Table 4.3 summarizes factors of safety for two sets of Su. Also, they were plotted in 
Figure 4.62 for comparison.  
In case of normalized Su of 0.25, some conclusions are taken as follows: 
1. When excavation width increases, failure surface doesn’t change. It can be seen at 
series of corresponding plastic point plots. 
2. All the numerical methods, except the manual strength reduction method, aren’t 
influenced by excavation width. However, excavation width also doesn’t have 
clear effect on the manual strength reduction method.  
3. With the conventional methods, slip circle method isn’t affected by excavation 
width. Both Terzaghi’s method and Bjerrum & Eide’s method give greater factors 
of safety when excavation width increases. It is due to their assumed failure 
surfaces.  
4. When the excavation changes from narrow to wide shape, a little decrease in 
factors of safety can be observed in the automatic strength reduction method and 
the angle method. The reason may be overlapped area of failure surfaces. 
     In case of constant Su of 45 kPa, conclusions are: 
1. Failure surface develops with an increase in excavation width. It is proved in all 
plastic point plots.  
2. All the numerical methods, except the manual strength reduction method, reduce 
and reach a constant value when excavation width increases. The manual strength 
reduction method raises its estimation at all wide excavations.  
3. Slip circle method generate constant factors of safety regardless variation of 
excavation width. At all wide excavations, factors of safety by both Terzaghi’s 
method and Bjerrum & Eide’s method decrease a little with a change in 
excavation width.  
4. From narrow to wide excavation, factors of safety reduce at most of the methods 
except slip circle method and Terzaghi’s method. This phenomenon is the same as 
the previous case of Su. Overlapped failure surface is probably the reason for that. 
44 
 
practitioners might do some actions like increasing the wall stiffness, constructing cross 
wall, increasing the wall penetration depth, or installing more struts. Actually, the 
effectiveness of those actions had not been verified yet. Here, the effect of wall stiffness 
and wall penetration depth against basal heave stability are studied. Based on this study, 
increasing the wall stiffness did not improve the excavation stability much, but increasing 
the wall penetration depth will improve the excavation stability a lot. 
For this study, failure excavation case 1 was used. The Mohr-Coulomb model 
with initial condition (K0=1) was adopted because it seems more reasonable with the 
average undrained shear strength from CK0U-AC and CK0U-AE tests as input values. 
All soil input parameters were same as Table 4.2, but the structural parameters were 
varied based on each condition. 
5.2 Effect of wall stiffness against basal heave stability in deep excavation 
The wall stiffness is represented by wall thickness because the wall stiffness is 
controlled by wall thickness. In this study, eight variation of wall thickness were 
performed namely 0.5 m, 0.6 m, 0.7 m, 0.8 m, 0.9 m, 1.0 m, 1.1 m, and 1.2 m. In case 1, 
the original wall thickness was 0.7 m. Table 5.1 shows the structural input parameters for 
each wall thickness. The struts parameters were remain the same with the original ones, 
in other words, no change in strut stiffness for each variation of wall thickness. The struts 
input parameters can be referred to Table 4.3. The finite element meshes for simulate the 
excavation can be refer to Figure 4.3. In each variation of wall thickness, method A and 
method B were performed to obtain the factor of safety value. Also, in each variation of 
wall thickness, the final stage wall displacement, ground settlement, soil bottom heaving 
and wall bending moment were plotted regarding to strength reduction ratio. 
5.2.1 Wall thickness equals to 0.5 meter 
 With the wall thickness equals to 0.5 meter, the factor of safety obtained from 
method A is 1.3 while from method B is 1.08. Figure 5.1 shows the final stage wall 
displacement, ground settlement, wall bottom heaving and wall bending moment curves 
and Figure 5.2 shows the factor of safety considered from wall bottom displacement and 
soil bottom heaving for t=0.5 m. A significant increment of wall bottom displacement and 
soil bottom heaving was occurred while SR = 1.1. Thus SR = 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, and 1.0 can be 
46 
 
wall displacement, ground settlement, wall bottom heaving and wall bending moment 
curves for wall thickness equal to 0.8m and 0.9m, respectively and Figure 5.8 and 5.10 
shows the factor of safety considered from wall bottom displacement and soil bottom 
heaving for wall thickness equal to 0.8 m and 0.9 m. A significant increment of wall 
bottom displacement and soil bottom heaving was occurred while SR = 1.2. Thus SR = 
0.8, 0.9, 1.0, and 1.1 can be extrapolated as one linear line and SR = 1.2 and 1.3 can be 
extrapolated as another linear line also. In drawing the linear lines, wall displacement 
curves and soil bottom heaving curves should be observed in order to see are there any 
failure mechanism occurred. The chart axis of intersection of those both linear lines 
avowed as factor of safety according to method B. When the wall thickness is increase, 
the wall displacement is decrease. The shape of wall displacement curve becoming like 
“kick out” phenomena when the wall thickness is increased. This phenomena is caused 
by the wall too stiff or rigid so that while soil active pressure push the wall, the wall 
could not deform flexibly. But, it does not means that the curve looks like “kick out” 
phenomena, the excavation is failure because no significant increment of wall bottom 
movement or soil bottom heaving is occurred. Thus, method B definition still valid and 
can yield the reasonable factor of safety as long as the wall bottom displacement and soil 
bottom movement always be observed. 
5.2.5 Wall thickness equal to 1.0 and 1.1 meter 
With wall thickness equal to 1.0 and 1.1 meter, the factor of safety obtained from 
method A is 1.4 while from method B is 1.13. Figures 5.11 and 5.13 show the final stage 
wall displacement, ground settlement, wall bottom heaving and wall bending moment 
curves for wall thickness equal to 1.0 m and 1.1 m, respectively and Figures 5.12 and 
5.14 show the factor of safety considered from wall bottom displacement and soil bottom 
heaving for wall thickness equal to 1.0 and 1.1 m. A significant increment of wall bottom 
displacement and soil bottom heaving occurred while SR = 1.2. Thus SR = 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 
and 1.1 can be extrapolated as one linear line and SR = 1.2 and 1.3 can be extrapolated as 
another linear line also. When SR = 1.1, the shape of wall displacement is look like “kick 
out” phenomena. But, it does not mean that the excavation is fail because no significant 
increment of displacement occurred previously. When SR = 1.2, the large increment of 
wall displacement as well as soil heave had occurred, than it can be judge that the factor 
48 
 
original wall penetration depth in case 1. 
5.3.2 Wall penetration depth equal to 13.55 m 
With wall penetration depth equal to 13.55m, the factor of safety obtained from 
method A is 1.4 while from method B is 1.15. Figure 5.19 shows the final stage wall 
displacement, ground settlement, wall bottom heaving and wall bending moment curves 
and Figure 5.20 shows the factor of safety considered from wall bottom displacement and 
soil bottom heaving for Hp=13.55 m. A significant increment of wall bottom 
displacement and soil bottom heaving occurred while SR = 1.2. Thus SR = 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 
and 1.1 can be extrapolated as one linear line and SR = 1.2, and 1.3, can be extrapolated 
as another linear line, too. When SR = 1.3, the wall displacement curve shows “kick-out” 
phenomena, but not for SR = 0.8 to 1.2. As shown in figure 5.19, the wall displacement 
has large increment when SR=1.2 but no “kick out” phenomena occurred, but based on 
method B, this condition has been avowed as failure condition. As well as the soil bottom 
heaving movement, large heave increment occurred when FS = 1.15. This condition 
might cause the center post to pull upward and the excavation reached failure, even the 
wall has not experienced “kick out” 
5.3.3 Wall penetration depth equal to 16.55 m 
With wall penetration depth equal to 16.55m, the factor of safety obtained from 
method A is 1.6 while from method B is 1.38. Figure 5.21 shows the final stage wall 
displacement, ground settlement, wall bottom heaving and wall bending moment curves 
and Figure 5.22 shows the factor of safety considered from wall bottom displacement and 
soil bottom heaving for Hp=16.55 m. A significant increment of wall bottom 
displacement and soil bottom heaving was occurred while SR = 1.4. Thus SR = 1.0, 1.1, 
1.2 and 1.3 can be extrapolated as one linear line and SR = 1.4, and 1.5, can be 
extrapolated as another linear line. If it compares with previous results (Hp = 10.55m and 
Hp = 13.55m), the factor of safety increase as the wall penetration go deeper. The reason 
is when the wall penetration go deeper, the failure surface will also extend deeper. In 
general, undrained shear strength of clay soil will increase along with the soil deeper. 
With the larger undrained shear strength, the resistant force increase, whereas the driving 
force remains the same. Based on factor of safety definition, that is resistance force 
50 
 
stiffness did not affect too much in increasing the stability of excavation except a large 
number of increment was applied such as 1.2 meter thickness of the wall. Increasing wall 
penetration depth will affect a lot in increasing the stability of excavation. 
5.4.2 Discussion 
In order to explain more about the effect of wall stiffness and wall penetration 
depth in the stability of excavation, some figures with regard to failure surface of some 
simulations will be shown. Figure 5.27 and Figure 5.28 will show the failure surface for 
method A and method B of case 1 excavation (wall thickness = 0.7 m and wall 
penetration depth = 10.55 m), respectively. Figures 5.29 and 5.30 show the failure surface 
for the method A and the method B of case 1 excavation with wall thickness equal to 
1.0m, respectively. Figure 5.31 and Figure 5.32 show the failure surface for the method A 
and the method B of case 1 excavation with wall thickness equal to 1.2m, respectively. 
Based on the method A, as shown in Figures 5.27, 5.29, and 5.31, the failure surface for 
wall thickness equal to 0.7 and 1.0 m are quite similar,  specifically right below the wall 
shaped like circle; but for wall thickness equal to 1.2, the failure surface is extended to 
about -40 meter in depth. From those figures, it can be argued that a large number wall 
stiffness increment causes an increase in the factor of safety value, but the increment of 
factor of safety value does not mean the excavation is more stable, because the failure 
surface had covering a large area of excavation zone. In additional, method A calculation 
also consider the failure of structure elements as well as soil elements. Based on method 
B, those figures shows quite similar failure surface specifically right below the wall 
shaped like circle. Method B yield more consistent failure surface in excavation.  
Figures 5.33 and 5.34 show the failure surface of the method A and the method B 
of case 1 excavation with wall thickness equal to 0.7m and wall penetration depth equal 
to 21.55 m. Based on the method A, as shown in Figure 5.27 and Figure 5.33, when the 
wall penetration increased, the failure surface also increased to right below the wall 
bottom shaped like circle. With this condition, the stability of excavation should increase 
as the wall penetration depth increase. Based on the method B, the failure surface also 
increased to right below the wall bottom shaped like circle. The Method A failure points 
looks like lesser than the method B, but it does not mean the method A is more safe. The 
reason is in the method A, the numerical calculation has not yet finished and has been 
52 
 
it has a big advantage over the analysis without updated mesh using the finite element 
method. This advantage was highlighted by comparison of results calculated by both the 
analyses for the Oslo case in chapter 3. In detail, the two ways gave the same wall 
displacement at the early stages where small deformation occurred. For large deformation 
case, the updated mesh analysis resulted in smaller wall movement. Furthermore, this 
analysis modeled successfully whole excavation procedure of the Oslo case while the 
conventional analysis could not. There is the fact that excavation reached fully final depth 
in site without collapse. So, the updated mesh analysis is more practical. This analysis 
was adopted to study factor of safety against basal heave using the finite element method. 
Four numerical methods were mentioned in chapter 3 which consist of the 
automatic c – phi reduction method, the manual c – phi reduction method, the angle 
method, and the intersection method. Both the automatic and manual c – phi reduction 
methods lessen successively soil strength in terms of friction angle and undrained shear 
strength until failure occurs. With the automatic way, factor of safety is defined as a 
strength reduction coefficient at which nodal displacement starts increasing largely. It 
also is an available function, so called safety analysis, in Plaxis. However, the manual 
way considers safety factor as the highest value of strength reduction coefficient at which 
equilibrium state remains. And it deals with every case of soil strength as a single 
calculation phase in the program. From three case studies, these two methods have 
generated different results. Incomplete impaction of the updated mesh option on them 
perhaps enables this error. In addition, they overrate factor of safety against basal heave 
because they don’t include losing capacity of retaining structure in computation. 
Therefore, their indications should be references only. Based on data of the manual 
strength reduction method, the angle method investigates behavior of wall. Factor of 
safety is defined as a strength reduction coefficient (SR) at which wall is closest to kick 
out phenomenon. The intersection method, on the other hand, verifies performance of 
maximum wall deflection, movement of the wall tip and maximum soil heaving versus 
SR values. The value of SR where displacement starts turning the extreme is considered 
as safety factor. Two last methods produce much lower results than the previous ones. 
Particularly, outputs of the intersection method stand around unit for two failure cases 
and one excessive – displacement case. Thus, this is the most reasonable numerical 
54 
 
layers often show large deformation, as a result, they lose capacity for embracement. This 
is also an interesting objective of future research. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REFERENCES 
Aas, G. (1984). “Stability problems in a deep excavation in clay.” Proc., 1st Int. Conf. on 
Case Histories in Geotech. Engrg, pp.315-323 
Aas, G. (1976). “Application of slurry trench walls for tunnel project in Oslo clay.” Proc., 
6
th
  Europ. Conf. on Soil Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering, pp. 617 – 620. 
Bjerrum, L., and Eide, O. (1956). ‘‘Stability of strutted excavations in clay.’’ 
Geotechnique, 6, pp. 115–128. 
Brinkgreve, R. B. J. & Baker, H. L. (1991). “Non – linear finite element analysis of 
safety factors.” Proceeding 7th Int. Conf. on Comp. Methods and Advances in 
Geomechanics, Cairns, Australia, pp. 1117 – 1122. 
Donald, I.B. and Giam, S.K. (1988), “Application of the nodal displacement method to 
slope stability analysis.” Proceeding5th Australia – New Zealand Conf. on 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3.1 The Mohr – Coulomb model soil input parameters of the Oslo case. 
Ground 
level 
Soil type t Su  Eu/Su Eu  Rinter 
m  kN/m
3
 kPa (
o
)  kN/m
2
   
0 to -1.1 Clay 18.5 6.31 0 200 1262 0.495 0.2 
-1.1 to -2.3 Clay 18.5 9.07 0 200 1814 0.495 0.2 
-2.3 to -3.5 Silty clay 18 11.95 0 200 2390 0.495 0.2 
-3.5 to -4.8 Silty clay 18 14.95 0 200 2990 0.495 0.2 
-4.8 to -5.9 Weathered clay 19.8 17.83 0 200 3566 0.495 0.2 
-5.9 to -7 Weathered clay 19.8 20.47 0 200 4094 0.495 0.2 
-7 to -9 Clay 18.6 24.19 0 200 4838 0.495 0.2 
-9 to -11 Clay 18.6 26.67 0 200 5335 0.495 0.2 
-11 to -13 Clay 18.6 28.31 0 200 5662 0.495 0.2 
-13 to -15 Clay 18.6 29.34 0 200 5869 0.495 0.2 
-15 to -17 Clay 18.6 30.38 0 200 6076 0.495 0.2 
-17 to -19 Clay 18.6 31.41 0 200 6282 0.495 0.2 
-19 to  -21 Clay 18.6 32.45 0 200 6489 0.495 0.2 
-21 to -23 Clay 18.6 33.48 0 200 6696 0.495 0.2 
-23 to -25 Clay 18.6 34.51 0 200 6903 0.495 0.2 
-25 to -27 Clay 18.6 35.55 0 200 7110 0.495 0.2 
58 
 
9     231 13 278.6 1.08E+04 
10     652 13 278.6 3.04E+04 
11     955 13 278.6 4.46E+04 
   Note: P is strut load; L is length of strut; is axial strut deformation; EAe is effective strut stiffness. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3.3 The structural input parameters of Oslo case. 
Type Material type 
E A I EAinput EIinput w 
kN/m
2
 m
2
 m
4
 kN kNm
2
 kN/m 
Sheet – 
pile wall 
Plate 2.1E+08 0.015 2.28E-05 2.53E+06 3.48E+03 1.02 
Type Material type 
EAinput Preload   
kN kN/m width   
Strut 
layer A 
Node – to – 
node anchor 
4.53E+04 63   
Strut 
layer B 
Node – to – 
node anchor 
4.53E+04 63   
Strut 
layer C 
Node – to – 
node anchor 
1.81E+06 36   
Strut 
layer D 
Node – to – 
node anchor 
1.81E+06 79   
   Note: w is weight of wall after subtracting weight of replaced soil. 
 
 
 
 
Table 3.4 Excavation sequence of the Oslo case. 
Stage in Plaxis Construction activities 
60 
 
Intersection method 1.00 
Angle method > 1.09 (right wall) and < 0.7 (left wall) 
Terzaghi’s method 0.87 
Bjerrum & Eide’s method 0.86 
Slip circle method 0.58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3.7 Test results of the CKoU-AC, CKoU-AE, and CKoU-DSS tests of the Taipei case 1. 
Depth CKoU-AC CKoU-AE CKoU-DSS 
m Suc/vc’ c’(
o
) Sue/vc’ e’(
o
) (Su/vc’)NC M 
12 0.335 30.04 0.205 - 0.227 0.906 
13.5 0.308 27.87 0.190 34.65 - - 
16.5 0.304 27.58 0.176 - 0.241 0.811 
20 0.274 23.51 - - 0.222 0.740 
23.5 0.284 23.72 0.106 31.91 0.221 0.793 
25 - - 0.119 31.61 0.232 0.793 
28 0.304 26.55 0.204 32.47 0.216 0.823 
29.5 0.329 29.70 0.209 37.05 0.229 0.788 
30 - 29.52 - 37.72 - - 
   Note: M is strength increase exponent; Suc is undrained shear strength obtained from triaxial CKoU-AC 
test; Sue is undrained shear strength obtained from triaxial CKoU-AE test; (Su/v’)NC is normalized 
undrained shear strength of normally consolidated clay; vc’ is vertical consolidation stress; c’ is 
effective friction angle obtained from CKoU-AC;e’ is effective friction angle obtained from CKoU-AE. 
 
 
 
Table 3.8 Results from pulling tests on pile cast in – situ. 
Pile cast in 
Su* (kPa) Su (kPa) 
Su*/ Su Rate of pulling Rate of FV test
1 mm/min 0.1 mm/min 0.5 mm/min 0.5 mm/min 
 Measurement Measurement Interpolation Measurement  
Water 30 26 27.8 31 0.90 
Clay slurry 31 28 29.3 31 0.95 
Mikrosil slurry 31 28 29.3 31 0.95 
Bentonite slurry 23 20 21.3 31 0.69 
 
62 
 
node anchor 
Strut layer 3 
Node – to – 
node anchor 
2.1E+08 0.022  2.68E+06    
Strut layer 4 
Node – to – 
node anchor 
2.1E+08 0.022  2.68E+06    
   Note: w is weight of wall after subtracting weight of replaced soil. 
 
 
 
Table 3.11 Excavation sequence of the Taipei case 1. 
Stage in Plaxis Construction activities 
1 Construct diaphragm wall and excavate to elevation of -1.8 m 
2 
Install strut layer 1 at elevation of -1.0 m, then dewater and excavate to 
elevation of -4.35 m 
3 
Install strut layer 2 at elevation of -3.55 m, then dewater and excavate to 
elevation of -7.65 m 
4 
Install strut layer 3 at elevation of -6.85 m, then dewater and excavate to 
elevation of -10.95 m 
5 
Install strut layer 4 at elevation of -10.15 m, then dewater and excavate to 
elevation of -13.45 m 
 
 
Table 3.12 Factor of safety against basal heave of the Taipei case 1. 
Type Factor of safety 
Automatic phi – c reduction method 1.81 
Manual phi – c reduction method 1.95 
Intersection method 1.03 
Angle method 1.12 
Terzaghi’s method 1.24 
Bjerrum & Eide’s method 1.05 
Slip circle method 0.91 
 
 
Table 3.13 Test results of the CKoU-AC, CKoU-AE, and CKoU-DSS tests of the Taipei case 2. 
Depth CKoU-AC CKoU-AE CKoU-DSS 
m Suc/vc’ c’(
o
) Sue/vc’ e’(
o
) (Su/vc’)NC M 
5.5 0.317 28.81 - - 0.236 0.839 
7.6 0.305 26.52 0.172 31.80 - - 
8.5 0.300 27.59 0.136 37.40 0.228 0.818 
11.5 0.285 25.31 0.140 28.45 0.225 0.816 
14.5 0.274 23.34 0.170 34.56 0.207 0.824 
17.5 0.297 25.36 0.194 30.47 0.215 0.793 
20.5 0.283 24.17 0.193 43.78 0.210 0.815 
   Note: M is strength increase exponent; Suc is undrained shear strength obtained from triaxial CKoU-AC 
64 
 
 
 
Table 3.16 Excavation sequence of the Taipei case 2. 
Stage in Plaxis Construction activities 
1 Construct diaphragm wall, then dewater and excavate to elevation of -1.9 m 
2 
Install strut layer 1 at elevation of -1.4 m, then dewater and excavate to 
elevation of -4.2 m 
3 
Install strut layer 2 at elevation of -3.7 m, then dewater and excavate to 
elevation of -6.5 m 
4 
Install strut layer 3 at elevation of -6.0 m, then dewater and excavate to 
elevation of -9.3 m 
 
 
 
Table 3.17 Factor of safety against basal heave of the Taipei case 2. 
Type Factor of safety 
Automatic phi – c reduction method 1.55 
Manual phi – c reduction method 2.31 
Intersection method 1.01 
Angle method < 0.7 
Terzaghi’s method 0.90 
Bjerrum & Eide’s method 0.79 
Slip circle method 0.73 
 
 
Table 3.18 Factor of safety against basal heave of the Oslo case and two Taipei cases. 
Type 
Factor of safety 
Oslo case Taipei case 1 Taipei case 2 
Automatic phi – c reduction method 1.095 1.81 1.55 
Manual phi – c reduction method 1.09 1.95 2.31 
Intersection method 1.00 1.03 1.01 
Angle method 
> 1.09 (right wall) and < 
0.7 (left wall) 
1.12 < 0.7 
Terzaghi’s method 0.87 1.24 0.90 
Bjerrum & Eide’s method 0.86 1.05 0.79 
Slip circle method 0.58 0.91 0.73 
 
 
 
Table 4.1 The structural input parameters of parametric studies. 
66 
 
Type                                           
B/He 
0.96 1.92 3.84 5.75 7.67 9.59 
Automatic phi – c reduction 
method 
2.05 1.97 2.07 2.13 2.13 2.14 
Manual phi – c reduction method 2.59 2.70 2.71 2.32 2.26 2.26 
Intersection method 1.03 1.06 1.11 1.10 1.11 1.10 
Angle method 1.24 1.21 1.22 1.22 1.22 1.22 
Terzaghi’s method 1.04 1.31 1.86 2.42 2.98 3.55 
Bjerrum & Eide’s method 1.01 1.03 1.54 2.04 2.53 3.03 
Slip circle method 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 
Su = 45 kPa 
Type                                           
B/He 
0.96 1.92 3.84 5.75 7.67 9.59 
Automatic phi – c reduction 
method 
1.64 1.42 1.28 1.24 1.22 1.21 
Manual phi – c reduction method 3.50 3.29 3.69 4.22 4.41 4.47 
Intersection method 1.04 1.05 1.05 1.05 1.04 1.04 
Angle method 1.32 1.17 1.08 1.07 1.13 1.15 
Terzaghi’s method 1.09 1.17 1.09 1.06 1.05 1.04 
Bjerrum & Eide’s method 1.06 0.98 0.94 0.92 0.91 0.91 
Slip circle method 1.03 1.03 1.03 1.03 1.03 1.03 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5.1 Wall input parameters with variation of wall thickness 
Type Material E A I EAreduction EIreduction t w 
  type kN/m2 m2 m4     m kN/m 
D-Wall Plate 2.1E+07 0.5 0.017 8.4E+06 1.75E+05 0.5 2.5 
68 
 
H
e
W
2/B
H
p
Heave
Kick out
H
Settlement
Failure surface
 
 
Figure 2.1 Basal heave mechanism. 
70 
 
 
Figure 2.3 Relation between the embedded part of the retaining wall and the failure 
surface: (a) large penetration depth and (b) small penetration depth. 
 
 
 
Figure 2.4 Analysis of basal heave using Bjerrum & Eide’s method: (a) a 12B wide 
failure surface, (b) another 12B wide failure surface, and (c) Failure surface covers the 
whole excavation bottom (Ou, 2006). 
72 
 
 
Figure 2.6 Analysis of basal heave by slip circle method: (a) the failure surface and (b) 
forces acting on the free body (Ou, 2006). 
 
 
Figure 2.7 Analysis of basal heave in layered soft soils (Ou, 2006). 
 
 
 
Figure 2.8 River embankment at low tide (Brinkgreve et al., 1991). 
 
74 
 
 
Figure 2.12 (1/N) – nodal displacement curve (Donald et al., 1988). 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2.13 Excavation geometry (Goh, 1994). 
 
76 
 
 
Figure 2.16 Normalized displacement versus shear strength reduction factor, F (D = 0.0) 
(Faheem et al., 2003). 
 
 
Figure 2.17 Effect of embedded depth and wall stiffness on safety factor when H/B = 
0.75 (Faheem et al., 2003). 
 
78 
 
 
Figure 2.19 Load – displacement curves for circular footing test on sand (Langen, 1991). 
 
 
Figure 2.20 A geotextile – reinforced embankment on soft soil (Langen, 1991). 
 
 
Figure 2.21 Embankment finite element mesh with geotextile and interfaces (Langen, 
1991). 
 
80 
 
13 m
Sheet-pile wall
Outer area
Inner area
 
Figure 3.1 Site plan showing the system of sheet – pile walls, excavation sections and 
instrumentation installations (Gunnar Aas, 1984). 
 
 
(stage 9)
(stage 12)
(stage 12)
(stage 9)
 
Figure 3.2 Measured horizontal displacements in section No. 19 at inclinometer No. 4 
(Gunnar Aas, 1984). 
 
82 
 
Stage 9 Stage 12
 
Figure 3.4 Measured strut loads in section No. 19. 
 
84 
 
Bed rock
GL -40.0 m
B = 13 m
GL -7.35 m
GL +1.0 m Fill
Silty clay
GL -2.3m
GWT
GL +3.2 m
Clay
Weathered clay
GL -1.25 m
GL -3.75 m
GL -6.0 m
GL -2.0 m
GL -4.5 m
GL +0.0 m
GL -4.8m
Clay
t = 19.5 kN/m3
t = 18.5 kN/m3
t = 18 kN/m
3
t = 19.8 kN/m3
GL -7.0m
t = 18.6 kN/m3
GL +1.2 m
GL -8.35 m
A
B
C
D
GL +0.8 m
GL -1.4 m
GL -4.0 m
GL -6.2 m
 
Figure 3.6 Subsoil profile and construction sequence of the Oslo case. 
 
86 
 
Strut A (node-to-node anchor)
Strut B (node-to-node anchor)
Strut C (node-to-node anchor)
Strut D (node-to-node anchor)
Interface
Sheet-pile wall
H
e 
=
 8
.5
5
 m
H
p
 =
 1
m
qs = 5 kPa
120 m
13 m53.5 m 3.5 m 15 m 13 m
4
3
.2
 m
4
1
.2
 m
2
 m
 
Figure 3.8 Finite element mesh of the Oslo case used for FE analysis. 
 
 
 
88 
 
Stage 9 Stage 12
Computed strut load
 
Figure 3.10 Measured and computed strut loads in section No. 19. 
 
90 
 
 
Figure 3.12 Plastic point plot for stage 9 using the FE analysis without updated mesh. 
 
 
92 
 
(a)
(b)
0 20 40 60
Distance to right wall, m
-10000
-8000
-6000
-4000
-2000
0
Stage 2
Stage 4
Stage 6
Stage 7
Stage 9
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
60 40 20 0
Distance to left wall, m
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
Stage 2
Stage 4
Stage 6
Stage 7
Stage 9
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
 
Figure 3.14 Settlement at all excavation stages of the Oslo case for original soil strength 
using the FE analysis without updated mesh: (a) Settlement at left side and (b) Settlement 
at right side. 
 
94 
 
 
Figure 3.16 Plastic point plot for stage 12 using the FE analysis with updated mesh. 
 
96 
 
(a)
(b)
0 20 40 60
Distance to right wall, m
-1600
-1200
-800
-400
0
Stage 2
Stage 4
Stage 6
Stage 7
Stage 9
Stage 10
Stage 12
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
60 40 20 0
Distance to left wall, m
-200
0
200
400
600
800
Stage 2
Stage 4
Stage 6
Stage 7
Stage 9
Stage 10
Stage 12
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
 
Figure 3.18 Settlement at all excavation stages of the Oslo case for original soil strength 
using the FE analysis with updated mesh: (a) Settlement at left side and (b) Settlement at 
right side. 
 
98 
 
(a)
(b)
0 20 40 60
Distance to right wall, m
-90
-80
-70
-60
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
The analysis with updated mesh
The analysis without updated mesh
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
60 40 20 0
Distance to left wall, m
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
The analysis with updated mesh
The analysis without updated mesh
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
 
Figure 3.20 Comparison of results calculated by the FE analyses with and without 
updated mesh at stage 2 of the Oslo case: (a) Settlement at left side and (b) Settlement at 
right side. 
Note: 
%100
)/|(|
)/|(|)/|(|
1max
2max1max x
H
HH
difference
eh
eheh

 

                                                                       
where 1max )/|(| eh H and 2max )/|(| eh H are ratios of maximum horizontal wall deflection 
to excavation depth of the analyses without and with updated mesh, respectively.  
 
100 
 
 
(a)
(b)
60 40 20 0
Distance to left wall, m
0
200
400
600
The analysis with updated mesh
The analysis without updated mesh
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
0 20 40 60
Distance to right wall, m
-1600
-1200
-800
-400
0
The analysis with updated mesh
The analysis without updated mesh
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
 
Figure 3.22 Comparison of results calculated by the FE analyses with and without 
updated mesh at stage 6 of the Oslo case: (a) Settlement at left side and (b) Settlement at 
right side. 
Note: 
%100
)/|(|
)/|(|)/|(|
1max
2max1max x
H
HH
difference
eh
eheh

 

                                                                       
where 1max )/|(| eh H and 2max )/|(| eh H are ratios of maximum horizontal wall deflection 
to excavation depth of the analyses without and with updated mesh, respectively.  
 
102 
 
 
(a)
(b)
60 40 20 0
Distance to left wall, m
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
The analysis with updated mesh
The analysis without updated mesh
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
0 20 40 60
Distance to right wall, m
-10000
-8000
-6000
-4000
-2000
0
The analysis with updated mesh
The analysis without updated mesh
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
 
Figure 3.24 Comparison of results calculated by the FE analyses with and without 
updated mesh at stage 9 of the Oslo case: (a) Settlement at left side and (b) Settlement at 
right side. 
Note: 
%100
)/|(|
)/|(|)/|(|
1max
2max1max x
H
HH
difference
eh
eheh

 

                                                                       
where 1max )/|(| eh H and 2max )/|(| eh H are ratios of maximum horizontal wall deflection 
to excavation depth of the analyses without and with updated mesh, respectively.  
 
104 
 
Automatic c – phi reduction phase
Input undeformed mesh
Form stiffness matrix
New step i --> i+1
Assign load
Calculation
i < maximum
number of load steps
OK
Output data
Announcement
Finish phase
Not OK
Not OK
Final-excavation-stage phase
OK
 
Figure 3.26 Automatic c – phi reduction process using the FE analysis with updated mesh. 
 
106 
 
New phase SRi --> SRi+1
Input undeformed mesh
Form stiffness matrix
New step i --> i+1
Assign load
Calculation
i < maximum
number of load steps
OK
Output data
Announcement: “Soil body collapses”
Finish manual strength reduction
Not OK
Not OK
Final-excavation-stage phase
OK
OK
Not OK
 
Figure 3.28 Manual c – phi reduction process using the FE analysis with updated mesh. 
 
108 
 
DHe
DHe+Hp
22
1
1
D0
0
1
1 tan
DD
He
He 
 
HeHpHe DD
Hp



1
2 tan
Not kick out if 1 < 2
Kick out if 1 > 2
He
Hp
L c
 
Figure 3.30 Angle method. 
 
110 
 
(a)
(b)
0 20 40 60
Distance to right wall, m
-1600
-1200
-800
-400
0
SR = 0.7
SR = 1
SR = 1.05
SR = 1.09
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
60 40 20 0
Distance to left wall, m
-200
0
200
400
600
SR = 0.7
SR = 1
SR = 1.05
SR = 1.09
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
 
Figure 3.32 Settlement at the final excavation stage of the Oslo case for different reduced 
soil strengths using the FE analysis with updated mesh: (a) Settlement at left side and (b) 
Settlement at right side. 
 
112 
 
GL -1.8 m
GL -4.35 m
GL -7.65 m
GL -10.95 m
GL -13.45 m
GL -1.0 m
GL -3.55 m
GL -6.85m
GL -10.15m
SM
ML-CL
SM-SP
GL -4.5m
GL -8.7 m
GL -10.7 m
GWT -2.8m
GL -0.0 m
t = 20.3 kN/m3
t = 15.6 kN/m3
t = 19.7 kN/m3
CL
PL = 15%
LL = 34%
t = 18.8 kN/m3
GL -24.0 m
H350  350  12  19
H300  300  10  15
H400  400  13  21
H400  400  13  21
 
Figure 3.35 Subsoil profile and construction sequence of the Taipei case 1 (Hsieh et al., 
2008). 
 
 
Figure 3.36 Basic soil properties and pore – water pressures of the Taipei case 1 (Hsieh et 
al., 2008). 
 
114 
 
0.67
0.3
 
Figure 3.38 Relation between adhesion and undrained shear strength of clay. (Ou, 2006). 
 
 
Figure 3.39 Results from pulling tests on pile cast in – situ (Aas, 1976). 
 
116 
 
 
Figure 3.41 Plastic point plot of the Taipei case 1 using the FE analysis with updated 
mesh. 
 
118 
 
Heave at the center of excavated zone
1.85
1.71.85
Deflection at the bottom of wall
 
Figure 3.43 Relationship between displacements and strength reduction ratio with the 
automatic c – phi reduction method of the Taipei case 1 using the FE analysis with 
updated mesh. 
 
120 
 
SR = 1
SR = 1.1
SR = 1.12
SR = 1.3
SR = 1.6
SR = 1.95
(a)
(b)
(c)
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
60 40 20 0
Distance to wall, m
-800
-600
-400
-200
0
0 400 800 1200 1600
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
D
ep
th
,
m
stage 5
Wall deflection, mm
0 4 8 12
2 6 10 14
Distance to wall, m
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
H
ea
v
e,
 m
m
 
Figure 3.45 Displacements at the final excavation stage of the Taipei case 1 for different 
reduced soil strengths using the FE analysis with updated mesh: (a) Settlement (b) Wall 
displacement (c) Soil heaving. 
 
122 
 
 
 
Figure 3.49 Basic soil properties and pore – water pressures of the Taipei case 2(Hsieh et 
al., 2008). 
 
124 
 
120 m
53.85m 12.3m 15m 38.85m
qs = 10 kPa
H
e 
=
 9
.3
 m
Diaphragm wall (plate)
Strut 1 (node-to-node anchor)
Strut 2 (node-to-node anchor)
Strut 3 (node-to-node anchor)
Interface
H
p
 =
 6
.1
 m
4
1
 m
2
5
.6
 m
1
5
.4
 m
 
Figure 3.51 Finite element mesh of the Taipei case 2 used for FE analysis. 
 
 
Figure 3.52 Plastic point plot of the Taipei case 2 using the FE analysis with updated 
mesh. 
 
126 
 
(a)
(b)
60 40 20 0
Distance to left wall, m
-60
-40
-20
0
20
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Stage 4
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
0 20 40 60
Distance to right wall, m
-250
-200
-150
-100
-50
0
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Stage 4
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
 
Figure 3.54 Settlement at all excavation stages of the Taipei case 2 for original soil 
strength using the FE analysis with updated mesh: (a) Settlement at left side and (b) 
Settlement at right side. 
 
128 
 
1.01
0.6 0.8 1 1.2 1.4
Strength reduction ratio
0
200
400
600
800
1000
D
is
p
la
ce
m
en
t,
m
m
Maximumleft wall displacement
Displacement of left wall's toe
Maximumright wall displacement
Displacement of right wall's toe
Maximum heave
 
Figure 3.56 Relationship between displacements and strength reduction ratio with the 
intersection method of the Taipei case 2 using the FE analysis with updated mesh. 
 
130 
 
0 20 40 60
Distance to right wall, m
-1200
-1000
-800
-600
-400
-200
0
S
et
tl
e
m
en
t
d
u
ri
n
g
ex
ca
v
at
io
n
p
ro
ce
d
u
re
,
m
m
SR = 0.7
SR = 1
SR = 1.3
SR = 2.31
60 40 20 0
Distance to left wall, m
-600
-400
-200
0
S
et
tl
e
m
en
t
d
u
ri
n
g
ex
ca
v
at
io
n
p
ro
ce
d
u
re
,
m
m
SR = 0.7
SR = 1
SR = 1.3
SR = 2.31
(a)
(b)
 
Figure 3.58 Settlement at the final excavation stage of the Taipei case 2 for different 
reduced soil strengths using the FE analysis with updated mesh: (a) Settlement at left side 
and (b) Settlement at right side. 
 
 
132 
 
GL -1.8 m
GL -4.35 m
GL -7.65 m
GL -10.95 m
GL -13.45 m
GL -1.0 m
GL -3.55 m
GL -6.85m
GL -10.15m
CL
GWT -0.0 m GL -0.0 m
GL -24.0 m
H350  350  12  19
H300  300  10  15
H400  400  13  21
H400  400  13  21
t = 18.8 kN/m3
 
Figure 4.1 Subsoil profile and construction sequence of parametric case. 
 
 
 
Figure 4.2 Plastic point plot when B/He = 0.96, Su/v' = 0.25 using the analysis with 
updated mesh. 
134 
 
Heave at the center of excavated zone
Deflection at the bottom of wall
 
Figure 4.4 Relationship between displacements and strength reduction ratio with the 
automatic c – phi reduction method when B/He = 0.96, Su/v' = 0.25 using the analysis 
with updated mesh. 
 
136 
 
SR = 1
SR = 1.24
SR = 1.3
SR = 1.6
SR = 1.9
SR = 2.59
(a)
(b)
(c)
70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0
Distance to wall, m
-600
-400
-200
0
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
0 2 4 6 8
1 3 5 7
Distance to wall, m
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
H
ea
v
e,
 m
m
0 400 800 1200 1600
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
D
ep
th
,
m
stage 5
Wall deflection, mm
 
Figure 4.6 Displacements at the final excavation stage when B/He = 0.96, Su/v' = 0.25 
for different reduced soil strengths using the FE analysis with updated mesh: (a) 
Settlement (b) Wall displacement (c) Soil heaving. 
 
138 
 
 
Figure 4.8 Plastic point plot when B/He = 3.84, Su/v' = 0.25 using the analysis with 
updated mesh. 
 
140 
 
 
Figure 4.10 Plastic point plot when B/He = 7.67, Su/v' = 0.25 using the analysis with 
updated mesh. 
 
142 
 
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Stage 4
Stage 5
(a)
(b)
(c)
90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0
Distance to wall, m
-120
-80
-40
0
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
0 50 100 150 200 250
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
D
ep
th
,
m
stage 5
stage 4
stage 3
stage 2
stage 1
Wall deflection, mm
0 4 8 12 16
Distance to wall, m
0
100
200
300
400
H
ea
v
e,
 m
m
 
Figure 4.12 Displacements at all excavation stages when B/He = 1.92, Su/v' = 0.25 for 
original soil strength using the FE analysis with updated mesh: (a) Settlement (b) Wall 
displacement (c) Soil heaving. 
 
144 
 
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Stage 4
Stage 5
(a)
(b)
(c)
120 80 40 0
Distance to wall, m
-160
-120
-80
-40
0
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
0 100 200 300
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
D
ep
th
,
m
stage 5
stage 4
stage 3
stage 2
stage 1
Wall deflection, mm
0 10 20 30 40
Distance to wall, m
0
50
100
150
200
250
H
ea
v
e,
 m
m
 
Figure 4.14 Displacements at all excavation stages when B/He = 5.75, Su/v' = 0.25 for 
original soil strength using the FE analysis with updated mesh: (a) Settlement (b) Wall 
displacement (c) Soil heaving. 
 
146 
 
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Stage 4
Stage 5
(c)
(b)
(a)
160 120 80 40 0
Distance to wall, m
-160
-120
-80
-40
0
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
0 100 200 300
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
D
ep
th
,
m
stage 5
stage 4
stage 3
stage 2
stage 1
Wall deflection, mm
0 20 40 60 80
Distance to wall, m
0
50
100
150
200
250
H
ea
v
e,
 m
m
 
Figure 4.16 Displacements at all excavation stages when B/He = 9.59, Su/v' = 0.25 for 
original soil strength using the FE analysis with updated mesh: (a) Settlement (b) Wall 
displacement (c) Soil heaving. 
 
148 
 
Deflection at the bottom of wall
2.1
u
y
 [m
]
Msf [ ]
Heave at the center of excavated zone
 
Figure 4.18 Relationship between displacements and strength reduction ratio with the 
automatic c – phi reduction method when B/He = 3.84, Su/v' = 0.25 using the analysis 
with updated mesh. 
150 
 
Deflection at the bottom of wall
Heave at the center of excavated zone
 
Figure 4.20 Relationship between displacements and strength reduction ratio with the 
automatic c – phi reduction method when B/He = 7.67, Su/v' = 0.25 using the analysis 
with updated mesh. 
 
152 
 
0.8 1.2 1.6 2
Strength reduction ratio
0
400
800
1200
1600
2000
D
is
p
la
ce
m
en
t,
m
m
Maximum wall displacement
Maximum heave
Displacement of wall's toe
1.06
 
Figure 4.22 Relationship between displacements and strength reduction ratio with the 
intersection method when B/He = 1.92, Su/v' = 0.25 using the analysis with updated 
mesh. 
 
154 
 
0.8 1.2 1.6 2
Strength reduction ratio
0
400
800
1200
1600
2000
D
is
p
la
ce
m
en
t,
m
m
Maximum wall displacement
Maximum heave
Displacement of wall's toe
1.11
 
Figure 4.24 Relationship between displacements and strength reduction ratio with the 
intersection method when B/He = 5.75, Su/v' = 0.25 using the analysis with updated 
mesh. 
 
 
156 
 
0.8 1.2 1.6 2
Strength reduction ratio
0
400
800
1200
1600
2000
D
is
p
la
ce
m
en
t,
m
m
Maximum wall displacement
Maximum heave
Displacement of wall's toe
1.10
 
Figure 4.26 Relationship between displacements and strength reduction ratio with the 
intersection method when B/He = 9.59, Su/v' = 0.25 using the analysis with updated 
mesh. 
 
158 
 
SR = 1
SR = 1.22
SR = 1.3
SR = 1.6
SR = 1.9
SR = 2.71
(a)
(b)
(c)
100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0
Distance to wall, m
-1600
-1200
-800
-400
0
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
D
ep
th
,
m
stage 5
Wall deflection, mm
0 10 20 30
Distance to wall, m
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
H
ea
v
e,
 m
m
 
Figure 4.28 Displacements at the final excavation stage when B/He = 3.84, Su/v' = 0.25 
for different reduced soil strengths using the FE analysis with updated mesh: (a) 
Settlement (b) Wall displacement (c) Soil heaving. 
 
160 
 
SR = 1
SR = 1.22
SR = 1.3
SR = 1.6
SR = 1.9
SR = 2.26
(a)
(b)
(c)
160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0
Distance to wall, m
-1600
-1200
-800
-400
0
SR = 1
SR = 1.22
SR = 1.3
SR = 1.6
SR = 1.9
SR = 2.26
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
0 1000 2000 3000
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
D
ep
th
,
m
stage 5
Wall deflection, mm
0 20 40 60
Distance to wall, m
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
SR = 1
SR = 1.22
SR = 1.3
SR = 1.6
SR = 1.9
SR = 2.59
H
ea
v
e,
 m
m
 
Figure 4.30 Displacements at the final excavation stage when B/He = 7.67, Su/v' = 0.25 
for different reduced soil strengths using the FE analysis with updated mesh: (a) 
Settlement (b) Wall displacement (c) Soil heaving. 
 
162 
 
 
Figure 4.32 Plastic point plot when B/He = 0.96, Su = 45 kPa using the analysis with 
updated mesh. 
 
164 
 
Heave at the center of excavated zone
Deflection at the bottom of wall
 
Figure 4.34 Relationship between displacements and strength reduction ratio with the 
automatic c – phi reduction method when B/He = 0.96, Su = 45 kPa using the analysis 
with updated mesh. 
 
166 
 
SR = 1
SR = 1.1
SR = 1.2
SR = 1.3
SR = 1.32
SR = 3.5
(a)
(b)
(c)
100 80 60 40 20 0
Distance to wall, m
-800
-600
-400
-200
0
200
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
0 200 400 600 800
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
D
ep
th
,
m
stage 5
Wall deflection, mm
0 2 4 6 8
Distance to wall, m
0
2000
4000
6000
H
ea
v
e,
 m
m
 
Figure 4.36 Displacements at the final excavation stage when B/He = 0.96, Su = 45 kPa 
for different reduced soil strengths using the FE analysis with updated mesh: (a) 
Settlement (b) Wall displacement (c) Soil heaving. 
 
168 
 
 
Figure 4.38 Plastic point plot when B/He = 3.84, Su = 45 kPa using the analysis with 
updated mesh. 
 
170 
 
 
Figure 4.40 Plastic point plot when B/He = 7.67, Su = 45 kPa using the analysis with 
updated mesh. 
 
172 
 
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Stage 4
Stage 5
(a)
(b)
(c)
160 120 80 40 0
Distance to wall, m
-120
-80
-40
0
40
80
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
0 50 100 150 200 250
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
D
ep
th
,
m
stage 5
stage 4
stage 3
stage 2
stage 1
Wall deflection, mm
0 4 8 12 16
Distance to wall, m
0
200
400
600
800
H
ea
v
e,
 m
m
 
Figure 4.42 Displacements at all excavation stages when B/He = 1.92, Su = 45 kPa for 
original soil strength using the FE analysis with updated mesh: (a) Settlement (b) Wall 
displacement (c) Soil heaving. 
 
174 
 
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Stage 4
Stage 5
(c)
(b)
(a)
250 200 150 100 50 0
Distance to wall, m
-300
-200
-100
0
100
200
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
0 100 200 300 400
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
D
ep
th
,
m
stage 5
stage 4
stage 3
stage 2
stage 1
Wall deflection, mm
0 10 20 30 40
Distance to wall, m
0
400
800
1200
1600
H
ea
v
e,
 m
m
 
Figure 4.44 Displacements at all excavation stages when B/He = 5.75, Su = 45 kPa for 
original soil strength using the FE analysis with updated mesh: (a) Settlement (b) Wall 
displacement (c) Soil heaving. 
 
176 
 
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Stage 4
Stage 5
(c)
(b)
(a)
300 200 100 0
Distance to wall, m
-600
-400
-200
0
200
400
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
0 100 200 300 400 500
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
D
ep
th
,
m
stage 5
stage 4
stage 3
stage 2
stage 1
Wall deflection, mm
0 20 40 60 80
Distance to wall, m
0
400
800
1200
1600
2000
H
ea
v
e,
 m
m
 
Figure 4.46 Displacements at all excavation stages when B/He = 9.59, Su = 45 kPa for 
original soil strength using the FE analysis with updated mesh: (a) Settlement (b) Wall 
displacement (c) Soil heaving. 
 
178 
 
Heave at the center of excavated zone
Deflection at the bottom of wall
Msf [ ]
u
x
 [m
]
1.4
 
Figure 4.48 Relationship between displacements and strength reduction ratio with the 
automatic c – phi reduction method when B/He = 3.84, Su = 45 kPa using the analysis 
with updated mesh. 
 
180 
 
u
y
 [m
]
Msf [ ]
Heave at the center of excavated zone
u
x
 [m
]
Msf [ ]
Deflection at the bottom of wall
 
Figure 4.50 Relationship between displacements and strength reduction ratio with the 
automatic c – phi reduction method when B/He = 7.67, Su = 45 kPa using the analysis 
with updated mesh. 
 
182 
 
0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2 1.3
1.05
Strength reduction ratio
0
400
800
1200
1600
D
is
p
la
ce
m
en
t,
m
m
Maximum wall displacement
Maximum heave
Displacement of wall's toe
 
Figure 4.52 Relationship between displacements and strength reduction ratio with the 
intersection method when B/He = 1.92, Su = 45 kPa using the analysis with updated mesh. 
 
0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2 1.3
1.05
Strength reduction ratio
0
400
800
1200
1600
2000
D
is
p
la
ce
m
en
t,
m
m
Maximum wall displacement
Maximum heave
Displacement of wall's toe
184 
 
0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2 1.3
Strength reduction ratio
0
1000
2000
3000
D
is
p
la
ce
m
en
t,
m
m
Maximum wall displacement
Maximum heave
Displacement of wall's toe
1.04
 
Figure 4.55 Relationship between displacements and strength reduction ratio with the 
intersection method when B/He = 7.67, Su = 45 kPa using the analysis with updated mesh. 
 
0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2 1.3
Strength reduction ratio
0
1000
2000
3000
D
is
p
la
ce
m
en
t,
m
m
Maximum wall displacement
Maximum heave
Displacement of wall's toe
1.04
186 
 
SR = 1
SR = 1.08
SR = 1.1
SR = 1.2
SR = 1.3
(a)
(b)
(c)
160 120 80 40 0
Distance to wall, m
-600
-400
-200
0
200
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
0 200 400 600 800
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
D
ep
th
,
m
stage 5
Wall deflection, mm
0 10 20 30
Distance to wall, m
0
400
800
1200
1600
2000
H
ea
v
e,
 m
m
 
Figure 4.58 Displacements at the final excavation stage when B/He = 0.96, Su = 45 kPa 
for different reduced soil strengths using the FE analysis with updated mesh: (a) 
Settlement (b) Wall displacement (c) Soil heaving. 
 
188 
 
SR = 1
SR = 1.1
SR = 1.13
SR = 1.2
SR = 1.3
(a)
(b)
(c)
250 200 150 100 50 0
Distance to wall, m
-800
-600
-400
-200
0
200
S
et
tl
em
en
t,
 m
m
0 200 400 600 800 1000
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
D
ep
th
,
m
stage 5
Wall deflection, mm
0 20 40 60
Distance to wall, m
0
1000
2000
3000
H
ea
v
e,
 m
m
 
Figure 4.60 Displacements at the final excavation stage when B/He = 0.96, Su = 45 kPa 
for different reduced soil strengths using the FE analysis with updated mesh: (a) 
Settlement (b) Wall displacement (c) Soil heaving. 
 
190 
 
(b)
(a)
Automatic c-phi reduction method
Manual c-phi reduction method
Intersection method
Angle method
Terzaghi method
Bjerrum & Eide method
Slip circle method
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
B/H e
0
1
2
3
4
F
ac
to
r
of
sa
fe
ty
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
B/He
0
1
2
3
4
5
F
ac
to
r
of
sa
fe
ty
 
Figure 4.62 Factor of safety against basal heave versus excavation width: (a) Su/v' = 
0.25, (b) Su = 45 kPa. 
 
 
192 
 
 
Strength reduction ratio
Strength reduction ratio
D
is
p
la
ce
m
en
t 
(c
m
)
H
ea
v
e 
(c
m
)
0.7 0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2
0
10
20
30
40
50
0.7 0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2
0
20
40
60
80
1.08
1.08
(a)
(b)
 
Figure 5.2 Factor of safety (method B) considered from (a) wall bottom displacement and 
(b) soil bottom heaving for wall thickness equal to 0.5 m 
 
 
 
194 
 
 
 
0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2 1.3
0
20
40
60
80
100
0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2 1.3
0
40
80
120
Strength reduction ratio
Strength reduction ratio
D
is
p
la
ce
m
en
t 
(c
m
)
M
o
v
em
en
t 
(c
m
)
(a)
(b)
1.15
1.15
 
Figure 5.4 Factor of safety (method B) considered from (a) wall bottom displacement and 
(b) soil bottom heaving for wall thickness equal to 0.6 m 
 
 
 
196 
 
 
 
Strength reduction ratio
Strength reduction ratio
D
is
p
la
ce
m
en
t 
(c
m
)
M
o
v
em
en
t 
(c
m
)
0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2 1.3
0
20
40
60
80
0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2 1.3
0
20
40
60
80
(a)
(b)
1.15
1.15
 
Figure 5.6 Factor of safety (method B) considered from (a) wall bottom displacement and 
(b) soil bottom heaving for wall thickness equal to 0.7 m 
 
 
198 
 
 
 
Strength reduction ratio
Strength reduction ratio
D
is
p
la
ce
m
en
t 
(c
m
)
M
o
v
em
en
t 
(c
m
)
0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2 1.3
0
10
20
30
40
50
0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2 1.3
0
20
40
60
80
(a)
(b)
1.15
1.15
 
Figure 5.8 Factor of safety (method B) considered from (a) wall bottom displacement and 
(b) soil bottom heaving for wall thickness equal to 0.8 m 
 
 
 
200 
 
 
Strength reduction ratio
Strength reduction ratio
D
is
p
la
ce
m
en
t 
(c
m
)
M
o
v
em
en
t 
(c
m
)
0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2 1.3
0
10
20
30
40
50
0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2 1.3
0
20
40
60
(a)
(b)
1.15
1.15
 
Figure 5.10 Factor of safety (method B) considered from (a) wall bottom displacement 
and (b) soil bottom heaving for wall thickness equal to 0.9 m 
 
 
 
202 
 
 
 
Strength reduction ratio
Strength reduction ratio
D
is
p
la
ce
m
en
t 
(c
m
)
M
o
v
em
en
t 
(c
m
)
0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2 1.3
0
10
20
30
40
0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2 1.3
0
10
20
30
40
50
(a)
(b)
1.13
1.13
 
Figure 5.12 Factor of safety (method B) considered from (a) wall bottom displacement 
and (b) soil bottom heaving for wall thickness equal to 1.0 m 
 
 
204 
 
 
Strength reduction ratio
Strength reduction ratio
D
is
p
la
ce
m
en
t 
(c
m
)
M
o
v
em
en
t 
(c
m
)
0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2 1.3
0
10
20
30
40
50
0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2 1.3
0
10
20
30
40
(a)
(b)
1.13
1.13
 
Figure 5.14 Factor of safety (method B) considered from (a) wall bottom displacement 
and (b) soil bottom heaving for wall thickness equal to 1.1 m 
 
 
 
206 
 
 
 
 
Strength reduction ratio
Strength reduction ratio
D
is
p
la
ce
m
en
t 
(c
m
)
M
o
v
em
en
t 
(c
m
)
0.8 1 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8
0
20
40
60
80
100
0.8 1 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8
0
40
80
120
1.3
1.3
(a)
(b)
 
Figure 5.16 Factor of safety (method B) considered from (a) wall bottom displacement 
and (b) soil bottom heaving for wall thickness equal to 1.2 m 
 
 
208 
 
 
Strength reduction ratio
Strength reduction ratio
D
is
p
la
ce
m
en
t 
(c
m
)
M
o
v
em
en
t 
(c
m
)
0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2 1.3
0
20
40
60
80
0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2 1.3
0
20
40
60
80
(a)
(b)
1.15
1.15
 
Figure 5.18 Factor of safety (method B) considered from (a) wall bottom displacement 
and (b) soil bottom heaving for wall penetration depth equal to 10.55 m 
 
 
 
210 
 
 
 
Strength reduction ratio
Strength reduction ratio
D
is
p
la
ce
m
en
t 
(c
m
)
H
ea
v
e 
(c
m
)
0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2 1.3
0
10
20
30
0.8 0.9 1 1.1 1.2 1.3
0
10
20
30
40
50
1.15
1.15
(a)
(b)
 
Figure 5.20 Factor of safety (method B) considered from (a) wall bottom displacement 
and (b) soil bottom heaving for wall penetration depth equal to 13.55 m 
 
 
212 
 
 
Strength reduction ratio
Strength reduction ratio
D
is
p
la
ce
m
en
t 
(c
m
)
H
ea
v
e 
(c
m
)
1 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5
0
10
20
30
40
50
1 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5
0
20
40
60
80
100
1.38
1.38
(a)
(b)
 
Figure 5.22 Factor of safety (method B) considered from (a) wall bottom displacement 
and (b) soil bottom heaving for wall penetration depth equal to 16.55 m 
 
 
 
214 
 
 
 
Strength reduction ratio
Strength reduction ratio
D
is
p
la
ce
m
en
t 
(c
m
)
H
ea
v
e 
(c
m
)
1 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8
0
40
80
120
1 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8
0
40
80
120
160
200
1.58
1.58
(a)
(b)
 
Figure 5.24 Factor of safety (method B) considered from (a) wall bottom displacement 
and (b) soil bottom heaving for wall penetration depth equal to 19.55 m 
 
 
 
216 
 
 
Strength reduction ratio
Strength reduction ratio
D
is
p
la
ce
m
en
t 
(c
m
)
H
ea
v
e 
(c
m
)
1 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2
0
100
200
300
1 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2
0
100
200
300
400
1.73
1.73
(a)
(b)
 
Figure 5.26 Factor of safety (method B) considered from (a) wall bottom displacement 
and (b) soil bottom heaving for wall penetration depth equal to 21.55 m 
 
 
 
218 
 
 
Figure 5.29 Failure surface of method A while wall thickness equal to 1.0m and wall 
penetration depth equal to 10.55m 
 
Figure 5.30 Failure surface of method B while wall thickness equal to 1.0m and wall 
penetration depth equal to 10.55m 
220 
 
 
Figure 5.33 Failure surface of method A while wall thickness equal to 0.7m and wall 
penetration depth equal to 21.55m 
 
Figure 5.34 Failure surface of method B while wall thickness equal to 0.7m and wall 
penetration depth equal to 21.55m 
 2 
MAXIMUM WALL DEFLECTION INDUCED BY DEEP EXCAVATION IN CLAY，所
屬領域為基坑開挖分析。此領域也有相關知名專家和學者對基坑分析技巧作了內容
相當精彩且精闢的文章發表，對於基坑分析發展議題提出許多新方向及思維，這些
新的觀點，讓與會人員獲益良多。 
而大會除了上述精彩本人參與之領域外，同時也針對其他各相關基坑工程領域
進行各分組報告及討論，發表論文的學者針對發表的論文進行簡報後，再由參與人
員與發表學者充分討論，對於許多議題有許多新的見解，同時亦得到許多教授之寶
貴意見。藉由參與報告及討論，了解目前在基坑工程各項試驗、分析、監測、管理
等議題之發展，亦對於具潛力之研究方向有所了解。對於個人未來研究方向有極大
之幫助。 
二、與會心得 
本次研討會參與人士來自中國及世界各地，在短短三天內交流了各國、各地方大地
工程界所遭遇的不同難題，並分享解決方法與經驗，本研討會著實為學術及工程實務上
的交流提供了非常良好的平台。且大會為參與者安排了多場的主題演講，更是切合大會
主軸，在這些演講中，我們感受到我們研究團隊的研究方向與國際一致，且成果極具競
爭力。以數值分析之土壤模式來說，大會中多次提及能模擬土壤非線性及小應變下行為
之土壤模式，才能合理預測大地工程中的土壤行為。而本研究團隊在此一領域耕耘已
久，早已發展 Undrained Soft Clay Model，此即一個能考慮非線性及小應變行為的土壤模
式。並且本研究團隊更具有精密的實驗設備，能提供發展此非線性小應變模式所需的試
驗資料。而大會另一個主題—大地工程可靠度設計，本研究團隊更是在近年投入人力進
行研究，並在此研討會中發表相關成果。因此經由此次研討會，讓我們更堅信，我們的
研究相當具有競爭力與影響力。本人由衷感激此次承蒙國科會經費補助參加第七屆全國
基坑工程研討會，在緊湊會議的討論及與會學者提出新議題，都讓本人獲益良多。  
 
 4 
黏土层中深基坑挡土墙最大变形量简易评估法 
 
谢百钩 1，简绍琦 2，欧章煜 3 
(1. 华夏技术学院 资产与物业管理系，台湾 中和  23568；  
2. 真理大学 观光数位知识学系，台湾 淡水  25103；3. 台湾科技大学 营建工程系，
台湾 台北  10672) 
 
摘要：利用数值分析，研究影响黏土层中基坑挡土墙最大变形量的参数，根据
参数研究的结果，利用复回归分析，给出挡土墙最大变形量的简易评估法。然
后利用简易评估法，预测 4 个台北基坑案例的连续墙最大变形量，并与现场监
测结果进行比较。结果显示：预测的最大变形量在 0.85～1.15倍监测值范围内。
因此，本文给出的简易评估法，可为初步预测、设计及最后检核设计成果提供
参考。 
关键词：基坑工程；深基坑；挡土墙最大变形量；参数研究；简易评估法 
中图分类号：TU 478                  文献标识码：A        文章编号：
1000–6915(2012)11–2285–06 
 
A SIMPLIFIED EVALUATION METHOD FOR MAXIMUM WALL DEFLECTION 
INDUCED BY DEEP EXCAVATION IN CLAY 
 
HSIEH Piogo
1，CHIEN Shaochi2，OU Changyu3 
(1. Department of Assets and Property Management，Hwa Hsia Institute of Technology，
Chungho，Taiwan 23568，China； 
2. Department of Information Touris，Aletheia University，Tamsui，Taiwan 25103，China；
3. Department of Construction Engineering，National Taiwan University of Science and 
Technology，Taipei，Taiwan 10672，China) 
 
Abstract：By using numerical analysis，a series of parametric studies for the maximum wall 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2013/03/28
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 深開挖破壞模式之探討及分析
計畫主持人: 歐章煜
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-011-120-MY3 學門領域: 大地工程
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
過去深開挖的穩定僅能用簡單的公式如 Terzaghi, Bjerrum and Eide and Slip 
circle method 等。本研究成功的利用有限元素法計算開挖的穩定分析。這個
成果可以應用於設置地中壁的深開挖工程，對營建工程產業的幫助甚大。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
