cost of 800 million US dollars. However, modern drug 
discovery is characterized by the production of vast 
quantities of compounds and the need to examine these 
huge libraries in short periods of time. Computer-
aided drug design (CADD) represents computational 
methods and resources that are used to facilitate the 
design and discovery of new therapeutic solutions. 
Commonly used computational approaches include high-
throughput screening, molecular docking, quantitative 
structure-activity and virtual screening. On other 
hands, molecular docking and scoring technology have 
been intensively employed as a powerful tool to 
understand the interaction of ligand and target 
protein at atomic detail and to predict the possible 
protein-ligand complex conformations. In the process 
of docking, multiple ligand conformations and 
orientations are generated and the most appropriate 
ones are selected. Scoring functions are applied to 
evaluate tightness of interaction i.e. estimate 
binding free energy. General observation is that 
consensus (combination of different scoring 
algorithms) scoring yields better results than 
individual scoring. However, the scoring functions 
used to rank 
compounds do not have to be linked to a docking 
method. Thus, in this study, we develop new scoring 
functions as well as QSAR(Quantitative Structure 
Activity Relationship) for the automated design and 
optimization of these functions. In addition, we will 
further improve and modify the energy terms of this 
scoring function to increase the accuracy in 
prediction of molecular docking results. 
 
英文關鍵詞： lzheimer’s disease、AChE、molecular docking、scoring 
function、QSA 
 
 2
 
ABSTRACT 
Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by protein misfolding, and aggregation 
in the brain is cause cell toxicity leading to neuron death. Several reports have been published where it has 
been clearly shown that the genesis of amyloid protein plaques associated with AD is connected to 
modifications of both amyloid β (Aβ) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE). In the past couple of years several 
prospective candidates for the drug development against AD have been reported targeting Aβ and AChE. 
Introduction of new therapeutic solutions is an expensive and time-consuming process. It is estimated that a 
typical drug discovery cycle, from lead identification through to clinical trials, can take 14 years with cost of 
800 million US dollars. However, modern drug discovery is characterized by the production of vast quantities 
of compounds and the need to examine these huge libraries in short periods of time. Computer-aided drug 
design (CADD) represents computational methods and resources that are used to facilitate the design and 
discovery of new therapeutic solutions. Commonly used computational approaches include high-throughput 
screening, molecular docking, quantitative structure-activity and virtual screening. On other hands, molecular 
docking and scoring technology have been intensively employed as a powerful tool to understand the 
interaction of ligand and target protein at atomic detail and to predict the possible protein-ligand complex 
conformations. In the process of docking, multiple ligand conformations and orientations are generated and 
the most appropriate ones are selected. Scoring functions are applied to evaluate tightness of interaction i.e. 
estimate binding free energy. General observation is that consensus (combination of different scoring 
algorithms) scoring yields better results than individual scoring. However, the scoring functions used to rank 
compounds do not have to be linked to a docking method. Thus, in this study, we develop new scoring 
functions as well as QSAR(Quantitative Structure Activity Relationship) for the automated design and 
optimization of these functions. In addition, we will further improve and modify the energy terms of this 
scoring function to increase the accuracy in prediction of molecular docking results. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder clinically characterized by a progressive 
impairment in cognitive function and behavior, and is the most common form of dementia particularly in 
elderly. It is reported that 25 to 30 million people worldwide currently suffer from AD, according to current 
estimates the number of cases will approximately triplicate by 2040. Furthermore, it has been estimated that 
approximately 1% of those aged 60-64 years is affected by AD. The prevalence of AD, however, shows an 
almost exponential increase with age (doubling approximately every 5 years) after age 60, reaching 20% to 
40% of the population over the age 85. The number of patients is predicted to rise in the future due to the 
expected increase in life expectancy. In terms of social costs, AD is one of the most expensive diseases 
because it requires not only medication, but also caregiving over a long period. Recent advances in X-ray 
crystallography have provided atomic-level insight into amyloid-like microcrystals formed by a number of 
short (4-7 residues) peptides, revealing a common “steric zipper” motif where pairs of β-sheets form a dry 
interface with interdigitation of side chains. Remarkably, these basic steric-zippers can be organized in distinct 
molecular architectures, suggesting structural complexity of amyloids formed by larger, biologically relevant 
proteins. Direct crystallographic studies for such larger proteins are, however, not yet feasible. Amyloid fibrils 
are insoluble, ordered assemblies of normally soluble proteins that accumulate in a large number of different 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/07/22
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 改善Discovery Studio軟體之蛋白質配體嵌合評分函數
計畫主持人: 劉宣良
計畫編號: 99-2622-E-027-003-CC3 學門領域: 生化及生醫工程 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 改善Discovery Studio軟體之蛋白質配體嵌合評分函數
(英文) Improve the Scoring Function of Protein Docking in Discovery Studio
成果歸屬機構
國立臺北科技大學 發明人
(創作人)
劉宣良
技術說明
(中文) 電腦輔助藥物設計在現今因具有高速與價格低廉的優勢，已被廣泛的應用在開發
各種的新藥上，包含了高速藥物篩檢(high-throughput screening)、分子嵌合
(molecular docking)、藥物虛擬篩選(virtual screening)等技術，其中的分子
嵌合可以以原子尺度下透過軟體估算出各類配體可能和目標蛋白的結合情形， 
再搭配評分函數(score function)選取最有可能的蛋白質-配體的複合物結構。
而目前評分函數的不完善及無法反應酵素的結合親和力一直被視為是電腦輔助藥
物設計上一個困難點的所在。有鑑於此，本研究將開發直接以AChE和抑制劑的交
互作用力，透過QSAR(Quantitative Structure Activity Relationship)的計算
產生一個新的評分函數，再與Accelrys DS 2.5內建的評分函數和consensus 
scoring做比較，達到新的評分函數提升分子嵌合可信度的目標。
(英文) Commonly used computational approaches include high-throughput screening, molecular 
docking, quantitative structure-activity and virtual screening. More specifically, 
molecular docking and scoring technology have been intensively employed as a powerful 
tool to understand the interaction of ligand and target protein at atomic detail and to 
predict the possible protein-ligand complex conformations. Scoring functions are applied 
to evaluate the tightness of interaction i.e. estimate binding free energy. However, the 
exiting scoring functions used to rank compounds do not have to be linked to a docking 
method. Thus, we aim to develop new scoring functions with the aid of QSAR 
(Quantitative Structure Activity Relationship) calculations for the automated design and 
optimization of these functions. In addition, we will further improve and modify the 
energy terms of the scoring function developed in this study to increase the accuracy in 
prediction of molecular docking results.
產業別 醫療器材製造業
技術/產品應用範圍 藥物篩選
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
本研究計畫將投入分子動力學模擬的理論計算，用以探討其作用力機制以及相關的 
生物問題。本實驗室將利用DS 2.5套裝軟體來進行理論計算，透過此模擬軟體，將可提 
供高等的計算方法以獲得更準確的結果，然而分子動力學在多原子系統中模擬，其精確 
的活性結構計算是十分繁瑣耗時的。因此，為了能夠更有效率地進行計算，以利本計劃 
的進行，我們擬添購平行硬體設備（PC clusters），以期在模擬的計算速度及精準度上
能 
獲得更佳的研究結果。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
