 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究成果報告 
再生能源發電方案之隨機模糊財務收益性分析研究 
Random-fuzzy financial profitability analysis for renewable energy generation 
  計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-230-039 
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：沈鎮南 教授        正修科技大學 電機系 
 
中文摘要-本研究主要在建立不確定環境下，風力及
太陽光電發電方案之隨機-模糊財務收益模式，並據
此以檢定投資之可行性。風能及太陽能都具有統計
學上之現象。建立風力及太陽日照量之機率分佈模
式，並加入能源轉換系統之特性，即可建置系統發
電量及相對之電力售電收益隨機模式。財務分析具
有之模糊特性與電力收益之隨機模式可透密林轉
換，合併計算系統之財務議題中之平均值及變異
數，並依據這些幾何慣量做為投資決策之準則。本
計畫推導之分析模式將利用已設置之風力發電及
太陽光電系統驗證其效能。 
關鍵字：再生能源發電，模糊財務收益，成本效益
分析，幾何慣量。 
 
Abstract-The article aims at deriving the 
random-fuzzy financial profitability model to evaluate 
the financial feasibility for renewable electricity 
generation in face of vague uncertainty. Wind and 
solar energy are stochastic phenomenon. The 
statistical models are derived to represent their energy 
distribution. The random electricity generation as well 
as the electricity revenue then deduced including the 
conversion system characteristics. The fuzzy financial 
model and the random electricity revenue model are 
combined by using the Mellin Transform to estimate 
the mean and variance (geometric moment) of the 
investment project. The performance of the proposed 
fuzzy financial model is verified by considering their 
application to two practical renewable electricity 
generation programs in Taiwan, namely, a wind 
electricity generation and a solar photovoltaic 
generation project. 
Keywords: renewable electricity, fuzzy financial 
profitability, cost benefit analysis, geometric moment. 
1. Introduction 
In response to the global environmental issues, the 
Taiwan government formally established the National 
Council for Sustainable Development in 1997. In May 
1998, a National Energy Conference mainly 
concluded with targets of formulating renewable 
energy development strategies and promotion 
measures. The National Energy Conference Action 
Plan and the New and Clean Energy Research 
Development Plan were completed in 1999, by which 
the renewable energy development potential 
assessment and other measures are reinforced. The 
weight of renewable energy in Taiwan’s electricity 
capacity was set up to 3%, 6500MW, in 2020. For this 
reason, energy strategies and policies for promoting 
renewable energy must be active in providing some 
environmental, financial and economic incentives. 
Prior to adopting a renewable energy program, 
potential participants must explore the soundness of 
the project by performing a feasibility study which 
investigates all aspects of the project, including its 
anticipated future financial and economic performance. 
The financial evaluation aspect mainly concerns the 
monetary aspects of the project and its financial 
rewards and profitability from the investors’ 
perspectives. In regard to the financial feasibility, this 
paper is aimed to focus on the financial 
decision-making in point view of the investors’ 
perspectives. 
Wind and solar energy are stochastic phenomenon. 
The most critical factor influencing the power 
developed by wind energy and solar energy 
conversion system are the wind velocity and solar 
radiation, respectively. Realizing the natures of 
renewable energy are important for a designer, as he 
or she can design the system’s components in tune 
with energy characteristics expected at the sites. 
Similarly, a developer can assess the electricity that 
can be generated from the project, if the wind or solar 
regime characteristics are known. For estimating the 
wind and solar energy potential of a site, the wind and 
solar data collected from the location should be 
properly analyzed and interpreted. Long term data 
from the meteorological station near to the candidate 
site can be used for making preliminary estimates. 
This data, which may be available for long periods, 
should be carefully extrapolated to represent the wind 
and solar profile at the potential site. The probability 
distribution is a critical factor in wind and solar 
resource assessment. Various probability functions 
were fitted with the field data to identify suitable 
statistical distributions for representing wind and solar 
regimes. It is found that the Weibull and Raleigh 
distributions can be used to describe the wind and 
solar variations in a regime with an acceptable 
accuracy level[1-4]. 
The cash flow models applied in many financial 
decision-making problems often involve an element of 
 4
where • denotes addition or multiplication operations, 
respectively. 
(2) Fuzzy subtraction and division: 
)h;d,c,b,a()h;d,c,b,a(A
~
A
~
222221111121 •=•  
)),min(,,,,( 1221,2,1,2,121 hhadAAAAda stts ••••=          
(4) 
where • denotes subtraction or division operations, 
respectively.  
It can be seen that fuzzy mathematical operations 
performed by the function principle do not change the 
membership function type of the fuzzy number 
following mathematical operation. Furthermore, this 
approach reduces the difficulty and laboriousness of 
the mathematical operations. A similar finding was 
also reported in [11-13]. 
 
2.2. Mean and variance of fuzzy number 
 This paper develops a geometric moment fuzzy 
mean value and variance, based on the probability 
measure of fuzzy events, for a generalized fuzzy 
number. The probabilistic method is one of two 
previously published fuzzy ranking methods [9, 
15-19]. In an earlier study [20], the current author 
suggested using the Mellin transform to perform the 
fuzzy ranking of normalized fuzzy numbers. The 
proportional probability density function was adopted 
due to its computationally straightforward nature and 
conceptual consistence. The proportional probability 
density function (pdf) corresponding to the 
membership function of a fuzzy number, )x(μ , is 
)()( ~ xhxp Ap μ= , where ph  denotes the conversion 
constant which ensure that the area under the 
continuous probability density function is equal to 1. 
The Mellin transforms [21] of the TrFN 
)h;d,c,b,a(A
~ = and the TFN )h;d,b,a(A~ = are derived in 
Eqs.(5) and (6) , respectively. Computing )s(M x  at 
s=2 and 3, gives the mean and variance of the TrFN 
and TFN, respectively. These mean and variance of a 
TrFN and a TFN are dependent only on the domain 
vertexes, i.e. they are independent of the grade 
(height). Accordingly, they are generally referred to as 
the domain mean dμ  and the domain variance dVar , 
respectively. 
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
−
−−−
−
+=
++++
)(
)(
)(
)(
)1(
)(
1111
ab
ab
cd
cd
ss
h
sM
ssssp
x  ,
)()(
2
abcd
hp +−+=                   (5) 
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
−
−−−
−
+= )(
)(
)(
)(
)1(
)(
ab
aba
bd
bdd
ss
h
sM
ssss
p
x , )(
2
ad
hp −=    (6) 
The grade mean and grade variance of the TrFN 
)h;d,c,b,a(A
~ = and the TFN )h;d,b,a(A~ = are derived in 
Eqs.(7) and (8) , respectively. It is found that the grade 
mean and the grade variance are both functions of the 
height and vertexes of the fuzzy number. 
2
6
22 habcdg ⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ −−+=μ , 23 )(
12
33
gg h
abcdVar μ−⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ −−+=  
(7) 
2
6
hadg ⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ −=μ     ,  23 )(
12 gg
hadVar μ−⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ −=      (8) 
The geometric mean μ  and geometric 
varianceVar of a fuzzy number are defined by Eqs.(9) 
and (10), respectively.  
22
gd μ+μ=μ                             (9) 
222
gd VarVarVar +=σ=                     (10) 
3. Fuzzy financial decision model 
Previous researchers, including Kaufmann and 
Gupta [22] and Ward [23], conducted fuzzy 
discounted cash flow analyses in which either the 
periodic cash flow or the discount rate was specified 
as a fuzzy number. Furthermore, Buckley [24], Chiu 
and Park [25] and Kahraman et al. [26] addressed 
problems in which both the periodic cash flow and the 
discount rate were expressed as fuzzy numbers. These 
studies also developed various economic equivalence 
formulae for use in rudimentary financial calculations. 
However, these models have only limited application 
in the financial decision-making arena since they 
consider only a single payment, or at best, a few 
payments, when deriving their financial indexes. 
However, in real-world applications, the periodic cash 
flow may be subject to occasional uncertain variations. 
Accordingly, the present study adopts a parameter, d, 
to represent the inflation rate. This parameter is 
specified in the form of a fuzzy number and is used to 
reflect an uncertain geometric series of cash flows.  
At the planning stage, a decision-maker is seldom 
in possession of all the information required to make 
an accurate assessment of the initial investment I~ , and 
the annual cash flow-in (or out) A~ . Therefore, it is 
appropriate to specify the initial investment, the 
periodic cash flow, the inflation rate and the interest 
rate as TrFNs. All parameters are assumed end-of-year 
(end-period) predicates, and that participants may take 
the cash flow-out to be the initial capital investment I, 
and consider the cash flow-in to be the annual net 
profit, A, which is calculated as the difference between 
the annual production revenue and the annual 
operating cost. If the program possesses any salvage 
value, this value is deducted from its cost once it has 
been discounted to the base year. 
The present study develops three fuzzy 
cost-benefit evaluation models, i.e. net present value 
(NPV), pay back year (PBY) and benefit/cost ratio 
(BCR), to assess the profitability of a renewable 
energy initiative. Although the internal rate of return 
indicator is commonly used in conventional crisp 
cost/benefit analysis, it has been noted by previous 
researchers that this index is not applicable to the 
fuzzy case [16, 19]. 
The NPV, PBY and BCR measures are expressed in 
Eqs. (11), (12) and (13), respectively. 
GPVF*AINPV +−=                       (11) 
 6
The financial possibility analysis shows the 
possible interval of the financial decision index as 
well as their corresponding membership grade. This 
analysis can be likely considered as a subjective 
sensitivity analysis in case of the conventional 
engineering economics. Fuzzy financial mathematics 
eliminates the need for complicate sensitivity analysis 
studies associated with input parameter variations. 
The financial possibility analysis is therefore an 
essential and effective means of evaluating the 
vulnerability of the profitability of a project which 
might deviate from the best estimates in the future. 
The future deviations are guessed subjectively by the 
experts’ opinions in fuzzy number form. 
TABLE I 
 BENEFIT/COST ANALYSIS OF WIND GENERATION PROGRAM 
Initial investment(M$) (87.5,90.0,92.5,95.0;0.8) 
Annual profit(M$) (14.0,14.5,15.0,15.5;1.0) 
NPV method(M$)  
 Fuzzy NPV (64.46,82.07,135.04,159.95;0.8) 
NPV mean 110.63 
BCR method(year)  
Fuzzy BCR (6.23,6.74,8.18,9.06;0.8) 
BCR mean 7.57 
PBY method  
Fuzzy PBY (1.68,1.88,2.51,2.83;0.8) 
PBY mean 2.29 
Note: Units of profit/cost expressed in Millions of NT$, otherwise 
PBY in years and BCR is dimensionless. 
 
4.2. Photovoltaic generation program 
A 5.7 KWp photovoltaic generation program 
installed in the campus is used to demonstrate the 
proposed models. The trapezoidal fuzzy investments 
and electricity profit determined by the experts’ 
opinions are (1000,1200,1300,1500;1.0) thousand 
NT$  and (28.6,29.7,30.1,31.5;0.8) thousand NT$, 
respectively. The net present value analysis shows 
(-1173.6,-981.6,-708.2,-497.1;0.8) thousand NT$ NPV 
resultant, which means financial inefficiency was 
deduced in this program. 
 
5. Conclusions 
This study has derived fuzzy profitability models 
which enable renewable energy participants to 
perform a financial evaluation of renewable energy 
alternatives. The proposed financial decision analysis 
method is more flexible and more intelligent than 
other methods since it takes the degree of confidence 
of the decision-makers’ opinions into consideration. 
The cost-benefit analysis is performed using the NPV, 
PBY and BCR indexes. The geometric moments of the 
resultant fuzzy indexes are derived in order to 
determine the mean and variance of the fuzzy 
financial indexes to support the decision-making 
process. A computer simulation is performed to 
explore the main uncertainties typically encountered 
in this analysis. The results show that the fuzziness of 
the decision indexes is not significantly influenced by 
the change in the values of the investment and the 
annual cost (benefit). However, it is strongly 
influenced by the values of interest rate r and inflation 
rate d due to the presence of the nth power of r and d 
within the financial decision indexes. The simulation 
also shows that a fuzzier financial index is obtained as 
the lower confidence level is adopted. 
The performance of the proposed fuzzy models 
has been verified by applying the models to two 
renewable electricity programs, a practical wind 
generation proposal and a photovoltaic generation 
program in Taiwan. The simulation results have also 
shown that the wind generation system provides 
soundly financial benefits to the participant, but the 
photovoltaic program is financial inefficiency. 
It has been demonstrated that the results 
generated using the proposed fuzzy models are 
consistent with those provided by the conventional 
crisp models. The results of this present study have 
confirmed that the proposed methods provide readily 
implemented possibility analysis tools for use in the 
arena of financial uncertain decision-making. 
Also, the results of this study fitted the expected 
result described in the proposed document.  
6. Reference 
[1] J.P. Hennessey, “Some aspects of wind power 
statistics”, Journal of Applied Meteorology and 
Climatology, Vol. 16, pp.119-128, 1977. 
[2] C.G. Justus, W.R. Mikhail, and D. 
Grabber, ”Methods of estimating wind speed 
frequency distribution”, Journal of Applied 
Meteorology and Climatology, Vol.17, 
pp.350-353, 1978. 
[3] M. Stevens, P. Smulders, “The estimation of 
parameters of the Weibull wind speed distribution 
for wind utilization purposes” Wind Engineering, 
Vol.3, Issue 2, pp.132-145, 1979. 
[4] S. Mathew, Wind Energy, pp.68, 2006, Springer. 
[5] S. Nahmais, “Fuzzy variables”, Fuzzy Sets And 
Systems, Vol.1, No.2, pp.97-110, 1977. 
[6] H. Dubois and D. Prade, “Operations on fuzzy 
numbers”, International Journal of System 
Sciences, Vol.9, No.1, pp.613-626, 1978. 
[7] L.A. Zadeh, “The concepts of a linguistic variable 
and its application to approximate reasoning, 
Part1,2 and 3”, Information Sciences, Vol.8, 
pp.199-249, Vol.8, pp.301-357, and Vol.9 
pp.43-80,1975. 
[8] D.Dubois and H. Prade, Fuzzy Sets and Systems: 
Theory and Applications, Academic Press, New 
York, 1980. 
[9] A. Kaufmann and M.M. Gupta, Introduction to 
Fuzzy Arithmetic: Theory and Applications, Van 
Nostrand Reinhold, New York, 1985. 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
 
會議名稱:  電機工程國際研討會 
The International Conference on Electrical Engineering (ICEE 2007) 
發表論文題目：Fuzzy profitability of renewable electricity generation 
(ICEE-165) 
報告人姓名：沈鎮南 
服務機構及職稱：正修科技大學 電機工程系 教授 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
七月八日搭乘港龍航空班機，由高雄飛抵香港，驅車前往 Hotel Nikko 辦理
報到手續，會議首日報到人數不多。 
本次會議由七月八日起共四天，外加 12 日之兩場 Technical Visits 活動，計
有五場專題演講(Keynote Speech)、三場議程討論(Panel Discussion)及三百四十
篇論文發表。本會議由香港工程師學會 The Hong Kong Institute of Engineers 
(HKIE)主辦，中國(CSEE)、日本(IEEJ)及韓國(KIEE)電機工程師學會協辦。典
禮由大會主席 Prof. C.C. Chen 主持，並邀請香港機電工程署署長 K.W. Ho、香
港工程師學會主席 Dr. W.K. Lo 等多位分別來自歐亞專家代表致詞，歷時二個半
小時結束。 Keynote Speech 1 由香港科技大學校長 Prof. Paul C W Chu 演講
High temperature superconductivity and sustainable economic development of 
China。 Keynote Speech 2 由加拿大 Kundur Power Systems Solutions Inc.主席及
執行長Dr. Prabha S Kundur博士演講Shedding light on blackouts。Keynote Speech 
3 由法國 CIGRE Central Office 秘書長 Mr Jean Kowal 演講 Electric power 
supply–The engineering challenges。Keynote Speech 4 由日本電機工程師學會主
席 Prof. Tanzo Nitta 演講 Applied superconducting power system apparatuses。
Keynote Speech 5 由韓國電機工程師學會主席 Prof. Y H Won 演講 U-city & IB 
certification。Keynote Speech 6 由中國電機工程師學會副秘書長 Dr LI Ruomei
再生電力能源發展研究，因此以再生能源相關議題為本人參加之目標。七月 11
日之 Keynote Speech 6 為針對中國之再生電力發電現況及展望專題演講，中國目
前雖以燃煤及燃油為主要電力來源，但未來將逐步增加以水力、風力及太陽光電
之發電量，預估到 2050 年能佔總裝置容量之 30%。 
在七月 10 日之 Panel Discussion 2，日、韓及中國各發表該國未來電力科技
技術方向，雖然各國略有差異，但應用分散式發電及再生能源發電兩項卻是共同
之趨勢，此點可為我國未來能源策略及電業發電之規劃參考。 
與電力經濟及再生能源發展之論文在會議中發表之數量並不多，只有 15 篇
（約佔全部之 5%）。中國學者研究主要在水力發電技術，此趨勢或許與長江三峽
水力發電即將啟用有關。分散式發電之相關並聯技術之研討，風力發電、太陽光
電之混合系統亦有論文發表。燃料電池發電在歐美已有成熟技術，且可預見應為
未來電力發電之主流，但此次會議未見論文發表，有點奇怪。 
三、 考察參觀活動：未參加此項活動者，省略。 
四、 建議 
在香港四天期間發覺其在經濟硬體建設確有長足之進步，但人民之素養卻
未同步進展，處處可見不守規矩之事實，汽機車行人總是衝鋒陷陣誰也不讓人，
喇叭聲音更是此起彼落。雖然在台灣沒有中國那麼嚴重，但依然值得大家持續的
加強日常生活教育。 
會中也發現開發中國家，如非洲大陸，也有相當比例之學者參與；又參加
的中國及香港大學生也很多，而且上台發表之學生也不少，這在國內不多見。建
議國內學術單位在學術之研究及經驗傳承應自學生時代開始培養。此次研討會，
本人有幸參與此盛會，獲益匪淺。 
五、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
此此次攜回之資料包括會議手冊及論文集光碟片一片。這些資料可短時間
