行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
具特殊序列變數集合非凸規劃問題之研究(四) 
Non-Convex Programming with Special Ordered Sets of Variable (IV) 
 
計畫編號：NSC 94-2213-E-027-028 
執行期限：94 年 8 月 1 日 至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：林逾先  國立台北科技大學  商業自動化與管理研究所 
 
一、中英文摘要  
廣義而言，「特殊序列集合」是一組存在於非凸問題中，具特殊需求的變數
集合。含有特殊序列變數集合的數學規劃模式常見於許多決策問題之中。在作業
研究及管理科學的領域裏，研究學者已確認出兩種類型的特殊序列集合。型一類
特殊序列集合已被廣泛應用於求解複選問題的最佳組合，例如自動化繪圖，資源
分配，排程等。型二類特殊序列集合主要被應用於水電煤油等公共設施之最佳營
運策略的模式建立。 
目前已有兩種運用在幹枝界限程序內，以求取非凸問題之全面最佳解的變數
集合分割策略刊載於文獻報告中。「權重均值法」是英國學者 Beale 及 Tomlin
在 1970 年提出。「重組轉換法」是本計畫主持人與美國學者 Bricker 在 1991 年
提出。 
一種針對〝特殊序列集合多重週期背包問題〞的啟發式解法，及利用型一特
殊序列集合幹枝界限法求取最佳解的數學程序與電腦程式，已由本研究主持人發
展出，並發表於國際知名學術期刊 Journal of the Operational Research Society。 
基於「重組轉換法」係將特殊序列變數集合重組轉換成相對應的單一變數，
因此具有計算真正懲罰值的特性，本研究專題探討了「重組轉換法」在幹枝界限
法中引用各種不同類型分枝策略與子問題選擇方式的優劣比較。這包括“後進先
出法則 (Last-In First-Out criterion) ＂、“最佳投影法則 (Best Projection 
criterion)＂、“仿造成本法則 (Pseudo Cost criterion)＂、以及“百分比誤差法則 
(Percentage Error criterion)＂。 
我們首先將「重組轉換法」在幹枝界限程序內“後進先出法則 (Last-In 
First-Out criterion)＂的數學程序發展成一套以 IBM APL2 電腦語言寫成的程式。
我們接著修改這份程式，納入其他法則，用以評估比較求解效率。經由在個人電
腦上測試的結果顯示，經由“百分比誤差法則＂所得的幹枝樹最小，“仿造成本
法則＂其次，而“最佳投影法則＂ 所產生的幹枝樹似乎最大。然而如果以解題
時間計算，三者的解題時間差異性並不是很大。由於我們只是做了初步的測試，
加上個人電腦不適合求解大型的問題或是應用性的問題，所以我們目前無法做出
較確切的結論。但從學理上看來，“百分比誤差法則＂須要較多的計算才能決定
那個子問題要優先處理，這項代價可能因此延緩了解題時間。或許在未來電腦硬
體內中央處理器的效率提昇時，“百分比誤差法則＂會有較顯著的表現。 
 
關鍵詞：非凸型規劃、特殊序列、幹枝界限法。 
 1
 3
二、緣由與目的 
本研究乃是持續對“具特殊序列變數集合非凸規劃問題＂的進一步研究，希望
探討「重組轉換法」在幹枝界限法中引用各種不同類型分枝策略與子問題選擇方
式的優劣比較，並且將相關求解法的數學程序發展成一套以 IBM APL2 電腦語言
寫成的程式，評估其求解效率的比較。 
 (Special Ordered Sets (SOS) are, in a broad definition, sets of variables that exist 
in a non-convex problem with special requirements. Variables in SOS usually fall in 
mutually exclusive sets. Two major types of SOS have been identified and studied by 
the researchers. SOS1 are sets of non-negative variables where, for each set, at most 
one of the variables can be non-zero in the final solution. The “restricted 
SOS1“ requires that, for each set, exactly one of the variables can be nonzero in the 
final solution. SOS1 can be found in the modeling of many pure or mixed integer 
programming problems in location, distribution, scheduling, etc. SOS2 are sets of 
nonnegative variables where, for each set, at most two of the variables can be non-zero 
in the final solution and, if they are, they must be adjacent. SOS2 has been widely used 
in separable programming to model non-liner functions using sets of piece-wise linear 
functions. Although not as commonly used as SOS1, successful applications of SOS2 
have been reported in the fields of utility planning and pollution control. A third type 
of SOS called SOS3 was later defined by some researchers to be a special combination 
of SOS1 and SOS2 which can be identified in the modeling of open shop scheduling 
problems. 
Currently there are two branching rules adopted in the SOS branch-and-bound 
procedure toward the global optimum of multiple choice programming. One of them is 
the “Weighted Mean Method (WMM)” proposed by British scholars Beale and Tomlin. 
The other one is the “Reformulation and Transformation Technique (RTT)” proposed 
by the primarily investigator of this research and an American scholar Bricker. 
 
三、研究內容 
RTT reformulates a non-convex problem PX with SOS variables into an 
equivalent problem PY by transforming variables X in the SOS into a set of binary 
variables Y. The transformation allows each of the Y variables to define a partition 
point in PX. A procedure is then developed to implicitly compose the optimal Simplex 
tableau of the LP relaxed PY directly from the optimal Simplex tableau of the LP 
relaxed PX. As a result, true penalty associated with the variables in a partitioned subset 
can be calculated through a corresponding variable in Y. Branching strategies for 
binary variable in conventional branch-and-bound procedure can now be directly 
applied on SOS. The merit of RTT is thus to link together the richness of conventional 
branching strategy and the proven advantage of partitioning SOS. In addition to the 
capability of calculating the true penalty, which in turn strengthens the bound, RTT 
also eliminates the requirement of the reference row. Such reference row is normally 
not readily available in every non-convex problem.  
In light of this, this research examines the impacts of different branching 
schemes and the criteria of selecting candidate problems in conventional 
 5
candidate problem is estimated through pseudo cost.  
 
Step 3: Coding Considerations 
Based on the algorithm flows of Step 2, we have developed a set of codes 
using IBM’s APL2 computing language. This is because APL is capable of 
manipulating the numerical matrix in a speedy and flexible manner.      
 
Step 4: Generation of Test Problems 
Test problems are generated using an index called “coefficient of 
tightness” developed to control the structure of the special ordered sets. The 
“coefficient of tightness” assists us to generate various types of test problems 
from loosely structured ones to tightly structured ones. Because of the 
restrictions on the PC, we are unable to generate large-size test problems or 
using application problems as the test problems. 
 
Step 5: Computational Experiment 
Computational experiment is conducted on the PC with adequate 
computational capacity. All test problems are solved using the branching 
strategies as described in Step 2. Results are recorded in terms of both the size 
of resulting branching tree and the CPU time consumed. 
 
Step 6: Comparison and Analysis 
The preliminary computational experiment on the PC indicates that the 
branching tree resulted from using the “Percentage Error” criterion is the 
smallest followed by using the “Pseudo Cost” criterion. It appears that the 
branching tree resulted from the “Best Projection” criterion is the largest. 
However, if we measure it by CPU time, their solution times does not seem so 
significant. Since our computational experiment is only a preliminary one on 
the PC which is not suitable for solving large-scale problems or application 
problems, we cannot draw a definite answer as yet. However, based on the 
theory, “Percentage Error” criterion needs more computation to decide which 
candidate problem to solve. This may have undermined the solution time. 
Perhaps its performance will become noticeable when the efficiency of center 
process unit in the future computers has been improved. 
 
四、國際會議出席 
On June 19, 2006, we presented a preliminary idea of using the transformation 
technique from SOS on the solution to time-cost trade-off in project management at 
the 2006 International Conference on Applied Mathematical Programming 
and Modeling held in Madrid, Spain. Our paper entitled: “A Transformation 
Technique for the Time-Cost Trade-Offs in Project Management under Discrete 
and Variable Crash Cost” was presented during Section M3D to a group of 
international scholars and educators in operations research and management 
science field. The presentation has triggered some discussion on our proposed 
2006 年出席國際學術會議心得報告與論文宣讀 
報告人：林逾先 
國立台北科技大學  商業自動化與管理研究所 
 
 
On June 19, 2006, we presented a set of transparency documents on the 
use of a transformation technique from SOS on the solution to time-cost 
trade-off in project management at the 2006 International Conference 
on Applied Mathematical Programming and Modeling held in 
Madrid, Spain. Our paper entitled: “A Transformation Technique for the 
Time-Cost Trade-Offs in Project Management under Discrete and Variable 
Crash Cost” was presented during Section M3D to a group of international 
scholars and educators in operations research and management science field. 
The presentation has triggered some discussion on our proposed 
transformation technique to form a more efficient solution approach to the 
time-cost trade-off problem in project management.  
The session was chaired by Dr. Alexandre Sztykgold from the 
Department of Defense in the Government of France. It has also come to my 
attention that several graduate students at the Universidad Rey Juan Carlos 
had expressed a great enthusiasm in the participation of this international 
conference and the topics under presentation. This conference also serves as a 
good opportunity to review some newly published books and journals in the 
field of OR/MS. 
 1
