 
BBB disruption evaluated by Evans blue: EB (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) (100 mg/kg) 
was injected intravenously 5 min after FUS sonication. The animals were immediately 
scanned by MRI 10 min after EB administration and then sacrificed approximately 4 
hours after the injection of EB. 
 
Hemorrhage evaluated by H&E staining: The animals were sacrificed 4 hours after 
EB dye injection. After transcardiac perfusion with saline, the brains were removed 
and fixed in formalin (10%). Coronal sections 6 µm thick of the excised brains were 
taken and stained with H&E. For each targeted location, all stained sections were 
examined, and the single section that showed the largest tissue effects was identified. 
These sections were examined for the evidence of red blood cell extravasation into the 
brain parenchyma, which has been reported to be the first sign of tissue damage. 
 
Image post-processing: The post-processing of the image data entailed an analysis of 
signal intensity or R1 value within the VOI and an analysis of the number of 
enhanced voxels above a pre-defined threshold. 
Results 
Relationship between contrast-enhanced MRI and UCA dose 
Figure 1 shows the plots of the normalized signal intensity and R1 values with 
respect to UCA dose (Fig 1a, 1c and 1e) and the plots of the number of enhanced 
voxels with respect to UCA dose (Fig 1b, 1d and 1f). Table 1 lists the correlation 
coefficients corresponding to the data in Fig 1. The gradient echo and R1 sequences 
showed stronger association between MRI-derived values and UCA dose than did the 
spin echo sequence. In the VOI-based analysis, the correlation coefficient was highest 
in the R1 mapping, followed by the gradient echo sequence and spin echo sequence. 
In the threshold-based analysis, the correlation coefficient was highest in the gradient 
echo sequence, followed by the R1 mapping and spin echo sequence. 
 
Hemorrhage detected by MR and H&E staining 
Using the FUS parameters along with the UCA dosage of 50 µl/kg in the current 
study, there was hemorrhage at and around the sonicated sites as detected on the 
T2*W and susceptibility-weighted images. No significant hemorrhage was detected 
when lower UCA doses were used. In H&E staining, no detectable histological 
changes were found in the specimens without UCA (Fig. 2a and 2e) or with 10 µl/kg 
UCA (Fig. 2b and 2f). Histological changes at 30 µl/kg UCA were small and 
generally limited to minor vascular damage, as indicated by tiny clumps of 
extravasated erythrocytes or individual extravasated red blood cells that were 
R1 mapping for BBB disruption 
In the present study, R1 mapping showed an outstanding performance to indicate 
the degree of BBB disruption. High correlation coefficients with statistically 
significant p-values were found in the correlations between R1-derived MRI index 
and UCA dose and in the correlations between R1-dervied MRI index and quantity of 
EB extravasation. Therefore, R1 mapping was used in this study as an in vivo 
reference standard to compare with results obtained from gradient echo sequence and 
spin echo sequence. Although R1 mapping can accurately indicate the degree of BBB 
disruption, the acquisition requires repetitive measurements with different TRs and 
thus longer scan times. As shown in the present study, R1 mapping of the whole brain 
was acquired using the spin echo sequence, with a scan time of approximately 50 min.  
 
VOI-based vs. threshold-based analyses  
In our study, two analyses, VOI-based and threshold-based analyses, were 
performed to quantify the signal enhancement due to BBB disruption. In our results, 
consistent results were found in both analyses on all spin echo and gradient echo T1W 
images and R1 mapping. This implies that the VOI-based analysis, performed by an 
experienced observer, could be as reliable as the threshold-based analysis. 
 
Correlation between MR and UCA dosage 
In this study, we further demonstrated that the correlations between MR and 
UCA dosage as well as the correlations between MR and EB extravasation still 
existed in a low-dose regimen. Our results imply that with appropriate FUS 
parameters, BBB disruption can be modulated by UCA over a wide range of doses 
and this modulation can be detected given sufficient sensitivity of the MR sequence 
used. 
 
Non-hemorrhagic vs. biosafety conditions  
Previous studies have used various histological results to assess the damage from 
focused ultrasound-induced BBB disruption. In this study, we used T2*W, 
susceptibility-weighted imaging to detect the intracranial hemorrhage in vivo and 
validated it with H&E staining ex vivo. As shown in Fig.2, we found good 
correspondence of imaging findings and H&E staining. However, we still found that 
some small hemorrhages shown in ex vivo H&E staining were invisible by in vivo 
T2*W or susceptibility-weighted imaging. More studies are required to investigate the 
effects of FUS on brain structures using different histological stains 
 
Figures 
 
FIG. 3. The relationship between EB extravasation and four different UCA doses and the plot of EB extravasation 
with respect to UCA dose. Brain slices of EB staining at four different doses of UCA, i.e., 0 (a), 10 (b), 30 (c), and 50 
mL/kg (d). The sonication was applied to the right hemisphere, the left hemisphere was left intact. e: Plots of EB 
extravasation with respect to the UCA dose in the sonicated hemispheres (solid square) and nonsonicated 
hemispheres (solid circle). The values of EB extravasation are the means over the three rats receiving the same UCA 
dosage. For each rat, the EB extravasation was quantified and averaged over three brain slices. 
 
FIG. 4.  The correlation between contrast enhancement and EB staining. EB extravasation as a function of the 
signal enhancement/R1 value and number of enhanced voxels in the spin echo T1W sequence (a and b), gradient 
echo T1W sequence (c and d), and R1 mapping (e and f). The dashed lines indicate 95% confidence interval. 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/12/21
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 聚焦式超音波與顯影劑應用於局部血腦屏障開啟之研究
計畫主持人: 林文澧
計畫編號: 96-2221-E-002-280-MY3 學門領域: 醫用電子
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
