1光電元件之研究，設計與製作(II)
“Investigation, Design and Fabrication of Optoelectronic Devices (II)”
計畫編號：NSC 99-2221-E-013-003-
執行期間：99 年 8 月 1 日 至 100 年 7 月 31 日
主持人：郭德豐 空軍軍官學校電子系 教授
共同主持人：劉文超 成功大學微電子所 教授
I. ABSTRATE
An optoelectronic switch with both n- and
p-type delta-doped (-doped) quantum wells
was investigated. The  -doped structures
formed potential wells for the carrier
accumulation and potential barriers for the
carrier injection. Being possessed of -doped
sheets with different doping levels, the potential
barriers were sequentially collapsed to produce a
double negative-differential-resistance (NDR)
phenomenon in the current-voltage (I-V)
characteristics of the device due to the carrier
accumulation in the potential wells. The device
also showed an optical function related to the
barrier heights controllable by incident light.
Keywords: optoelectronic switch, delta-doped,
negative differential resistance
本成果報告為對具有單原子摻雜(-doped)量
子井之光電交換元件之研究，在該元件之結構
中，具有兩種不同類型之單原子摻雜之量子
井，由於摻雜濃度之不同產生不同高度之位能
障壁，藉由該不同高度之位能障壁之連續崩
潰，形成雙重之S型之負微分電阻(NDR)特
性，由於位能障壁高度受到光照強度之影響，
該元件展現了光控之特性。
關鍵詞: 光電交換，單原子摻雜，負微分電阻
II. INTRODUCTION
In the last two decades, there has been
growing interest in optoelectronic switches based
on pnpn structure [1-3]. These devices have
bistable states switchable by both optical and
electrical inputs. This function is essential in
realizing monolithic integration of light emitters
and photodetectors with the optoelectronic
switches for potential applications in optical
logic. To reduce the number of elements and
process step in the logic application,
optoelectronic switches with multiple operation
states are promising devices [4]. In this work, a
GaAs optoelectronic switch with InGaAs n- and
p-type delta-doped (-doped) quantum wells is
presented. The  -doped wells may give
extremely good confinements of doping
impurities, which are suitable to form potential
barriers for the carrier injection and potential
wells for the carrier accumulation [5]. Owing to
the different doping densities of the -doped
sheets, the device exhibits a double
negative-differential-resistance (NDR)
phenomenon in the current-voltage (I-V)
characteristics when a sufficient bias voltage is
applied. The device also shows an optical
function because the barrier heights are
associated with incident light.
III. EXPERIMENTS
The device was grown by molecular beam
epitaxy (MBE) on a (100)-oriented n-GaAs
substrate. The device structure consisted of a
3000Å n-GaAs ( )3 1018 3 cm buffer layer, a
1000Å n -GaAs ( )1 1016 3 cm layer, a
p-typed -doped (( )p ) quantum well, a
2000Å n -GaAs ( )1 1016 3 cm layer, an
3device under illumination and dark. The
illumination characteristics were obtained under
a tungsten lamp as the light source. The incident
optical power was measured from the
photocurrent of the device. It is estimated that
the illumination intensity was 100nW. Double
S-shaped NDR performances are observed under
both conditions. In the initial off-state, the
conduction current is negligible (from 0 to 3.5V
in Fig.3(a) and from 0 to 4.6V in Fig.3(b)) due to
the high potential barriers P and N for
electrons and holes thermionically emitted over
them. Under illumination, lower values of AKV
voltage are sufficient to achieve switching in the
initial off-state and intermediate on-state because
the photogenerated carriers accumulated in wells
A and B lower the barriers.
In addition to the switching characteristics
controllable by the input-light, we can observe
the optical switching by biasing the device to just
below turn-on and then introducing light to turn
the device on, or by biasing it to just before
turn-off and removing the light source to turn the
device off. Figure 4 shows the I-V characteristics
of the device with a superimposed load line for
both the dark (dotted line) and illumination
(solid line) conditions. The load line intersects
the I-V curves at three different stable points, i.e.,
A at dark characteristics, and B and C at
illumination characteristics. In the dark, the load
line intersects the characteristics at A only. This
is meant that the device is stable in the initial
off-state in the dark. In the illumination case, it is
seen that the stable point is at B in the
intermediate on-state and is at C in the final
on-state. The device will make a transition from
A to B and C promptly when light falls on the
device. As the light intensity drops, the
characteristics will revert to the dark situation
and the device will switch back to A. Therefore,
the device may be switched on and off with an
optical input.
The switching performance of the device,
however, is not good, as shown in Fig.3. The
difference between the switching voltage SV
and the holding voltage HV is too small to
obtain a good control voltage efficiency
(= HS VV ). The control voltage efficiency 
is a very important factor to the circuit
application. The switching performance has a
strong dependence on the device structure
parameters, such as the doping density of the
 -doped sheets and the thickness of the
n -GaAs layers. Perhaps the  -doping
densities of the device were too high to
completely deplete the doping impurities, which
might make the barrier collapse not as effectively
as we expected. Hence lower  -doping
densities may be considered for the
switching-performance improvement.
V. CONCLUSION
In summary, an optoelectronic switch with
n- and p-type -doped wells was demonstrated.
Owing to the sequential collapses of the internal
barriers, a double S-shaped NDR performance
was observed in the I-V characteristics of the
device. As the characteristics were influenced by
the input-light power, the switching was
controllable by changing the input-light.
VI. REFERENCES
1. P. R. CLAISSE, G. W. TAYLOR, D. P.
DOCTOR and P. W. COOKE, IEEE Trans.
Electron Devices 39 (1992) 2523.
2. P. K. REES, D. G. PARKER and J. A.
BARNARD, Electronics Lett. 22 (1986) 265.
3. S. J. KOVACIC, B. J. ROBINSON, J. G.
SIMMONS and D. A. THOMPSON, IEEE
Electron Device Lett. 14 (1993) 54..
4. J. KASTRUP, H. T. GRAHN and K.
PLOOG, Appl. Phys. Lett. 65 (1994) 1808.
5. D. G. LIU, C. P. LEE, K. H. CHANG, J. S.
WU and D. C. LIOU, Appl. Phys. Lett. 57
(1990) 1887.
6. C. D. THURMOND, J. Electrochem. Soc.
122 (1975) 1133.
7. S. PAUL, J. B. ROY and P. K. BASU, J.
Appl. Phys. 69 (1991) 827.
8. D. J. ARENT, K. DENEFFE, C. V. HOOF, J.
D. BOECK and G. BORGHS, J. Appl. Phys.
5Figure 4. Current-voltage (I-V) characteristics of
the studied device with a superimposed load line
for both the dark (dotted line) and illumination
(solid line) conditions. The load line intersects
the I-V curves at three different stable points, i.e.,
A at dark characteristics, and B and C at
illumination characteristics.
計畫成果自評：
在本計畫中，為降低應用電路之複雜度，
研製了一種具三穩態S形NDR光電交換特性之
三角形位能障壁光電元件，於三角形位能障壁
結構中同時引入了 )( p 及 )( n 量子井，藉
由摻雜濃度之不同產生不同高度之三角形位
能障壁，利用量子井之載子侷限及三角形位能
障壁之連續崩潰，形成具三穩態S形NDR之光
電交換元件。
本計畫之執行，對元件之研製已完成，亦
獲得不錯之如預期之成效，然在其特性上未能
達理想，因為所得之交換電壓 SV (switching
voltag)和持住電壓 HV ( holding voltage)之間之
差值過小，而未能獲得較好之控制電壓效率
(= HS VV )(control voltage efficiency)，該控制
電壓效率為交換元件於電路應用之重要數
據。本計畫之交換元件之特性主要決定於其結
構參數，諸如，摻雜之濃渡、障壁之厚度等，
或許本計畫之元件之 )( p 及 )( n 之摻雜濃
度過高，以致於未能完全空乏，而使三角形位
能障壁未能有效崩潰，故較低摻雜濃度之
)( p 及 )( n 量子井將是未來改進元件特性
之方向。原計畫與實際執行計畫之內容大致相
符，評估其研究內容與原計畫相符程度應有達
70%之程度。
本計劃之光電元件與光檢測器、光發射器
單石積體化後，可應用於光通訊與邏輯，亦可
作為optical dynamic memory、optical crossbar
interconnect、digital optical computer之邏輯元
件，由於三角形位能障壁結構不具有少數載子
儲存之缺點，故亦將有助於其在應用上之高頻
操作，且因其三穩態之特性，將可簡化所應用
之電路。
2筆者獲國科會計畫(NSC 99-2221-E-013-003)之補助得以參加此次會議，由高雄小港國際機場
搭機經台北、加拿大溫哥華轉機前往加拿大蒙特婁。
二、與會心得
筆者這次發表論文之題目為”Miniband-Resonant-Tunneling Optoelectronic Device”，此篇論文之
發表方式為口頭報告，發表時間為 3日上午，當天陰雨綿綿。由於融合數個研討主題同時舉行，使
本屆會議相當具有學術性，亦相當熱鬧，也因此除了微電子領域外，亦有倖接觸到其他學術領域，
讓人感受到學術研究在國際上之多樣性，且不斷地向前繁衍與擴展，於發表期間能和與會之專家學
者討論相關領域之問題，使本人獲益良多。於發表期間有幾位與會之專家學者對本論文頗有興趣，
發言詢問一些與本次發表論文有關之議題，筆者除解說外，並有機會與他們共同討論一些相關元件
之特性及有待繼續克服之技術問題，希望除闡揚元件之設計理念外，亦希望能吸取與會之專家學者
之研究經驗。
筆者十餘年來於學術界主要從事於化合物半導體元件之研製，其中，包含了異質接面雙極性
電晶體(Heterojunction Bipolar Transistors)、異質結構場效應電晶體(Heterostructure Field Effect
Transistors)、及光電元件(Optoelectronic Devices)等，在分子束磊晶(Molecular Beam Epitaxy)及有
機汽相沉積(Metalorganic Chemical Vapor Deposition)等所成長之材料系統方面，如 AlGaAs/GaAs，
GaAs/InGaP，AlInAs/GaInAs，InP/InGaAs…等，亦有一些研究經驗，參加這次會議除了發表自己
之研究成果外，也吸收他人之研究心得，尤其是在元件結構之設計上，得到其他與會專家學者之
指教，對日後自己之新型元件之研究將有相當助益。
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略)
無
四、建議
近幾年國際貨物短缺、物價飛漲，今年尤甚，國內之學術與研究界之專家學者參與國際學
術性活動之費用顯著上升，除了希望國科會能提供足夠之經費外，更希望能夠積極鼓勵及補助
研究生參與國際性學術活動，以開拓他們之視野，因為這群莘莘學子將是我國未來於學術界及
4MINIBAND-RESONANT-TUNNELING OPTOELECTRONIC DEVICE
Der-Feng Guoa
a Department of Electronic Engineering, Air Force Academy, Kaohsiung 820, Taiwan
The illumination effect on switching performance is presented for a triangular-barrier
resonant-tunneling diode (TBRTD). In the structure center of the TBRTD, a
delta-doped (-doped) quantum well is inserted. Owing to the resonant tunneling
through the miniband in the quantum well, an N-shaped negative-differential-resistance
(NDR) phenomenon is observed in the current-voltage (I-V) characteristics. The device
shows a flexible optical function related to the cap-layer conductivity and potential
barrier height changeable by incident light.
INTRODUCTION
In addition to that the tunneling mechanism and quantum effect involved in the operation of resonant
tunneling diodes (RTD’s) have been the focus of both theoretical and experimental investigations, RTD’s 
have also been applied successfully to the field of high-speed switches and high-frequency oscillators (1-5).
Because of their fast response time and device physics, RTD’s can be utilized as optical devices (6,7). As an
alternative candidate of fast-speed devices, triangular-barrier diode is very promising (8,9). The
triangular-barrier diode was the first time made by inserting a p -GaAs layer into an i-GaAs layer with
n -GaAs layers on both sides (10). However, it is suitable for rectifying, but not for resonant tunneling device.
In this paper, a GaAs-InGaAs triangular-barrier resonant-tunneling diode (TBRTD) and the illumination
effect on the switching characteristics are presented. Sandwiched in between two n -GaAs layers, an InGaAs
well with a p-type delta-doped ( )( p ) sheet in the center is used to form the triangular-barrier structure. In
the InGaAs well, a miniband is produced. Owing to the resonant tunneling through the miniband, an N-shaped
negative-differential-resistance (NDR) phenomenon is observed in the current-voltage (I-V) characteristics.
Not only the electric but optical performance of the device is studied. The difference between dark and
illumination characteristics is interpreted by the variation of the cap-layer conductivity (11) and triangular
barrier height. Because the I-V characteristic is associated with incident light, the device exhibits a flexible
optical function.
EXPERIMENTS
The studied device was grown on a (100)-oriented n -GaAs substrate. The device structure consists of a
200nm n -GaAs ( )3 1018 3 cm buffer layer, a 50nm n -GaAs ( )2 1016 3 cm layer, a 20nm
6Illumination effects on the switching characteristics of double-barrier resonant tunneling diodes
(DBRTD’s) have been demonstrated (12, 13). In these researches, the photoinduced Vp and VV decreases
were due to the local enhancement of the electric field within the double barrier structure by accumulated
photogenerated holes, and the photoinduced IV increase is because of photogenerated hole tunneling. The
illumination influence on the transport mechanism of the studied TBRTD is quite different from that of the
DBRTD’s. We consider first the screening mechanism related to the triangular barier height. The holes 
photogenerated in the drain region and then accumulated in the InGaAs well, as shown in Fig.2, will cause a
lowering of the triangular barrier, which implies that less voltage is necessary to switch the device. This is
meant that a lower Vp and VV are obtained under illumination. Moreover, the lowered barrier also produces
a higher I P and IV , as shown in Fig.3. However, compared to the I P increment, the IV increment from
dark to illumination condition is very small. This is attributed to not only the barrier lowering effect but also
the lateral current confinement associated with the cap-layer conductivity. As the area of the mesa equals that
of the metal contact, i.e., w=0, the lateral current confinement is complete. When the mesa is larger than the
metal contact, w0, the lateral current confinement is incomplete, and thus the electrostatic potential in the
cap layer is not constant along the cap-layer plane because of the finite conductivity of the layer. Furthermore,
the potential difference across the device at different points along the cap-layer plane is not the same and the
resonant tunneling effect is not the same at each point. Under illumination, the conductivity of the cap layer is
increased, and a larger amount of electrons injected from the cap layer can tunnel through the miniband in the
)( p InGaAs well with the peak or valley range in the transmission resonance spectra to produce a higher
I P or a lower IV , respectively. The I P is increased by the increasing of the cap-layer conductivity as well
as by the lowering of the barrier under illumination. However, the IV decrement caused by the increasing
conductivity neutralizes the IV increment by the lowing barrier. Thus the IV is increased a little, nearly
unchanged, from dark to illumination condition. In Ref.12, the I P of the DBRTD’s first increased and then 
decreased with increasing illumination power. The I P increase might be attributed to the cap-layer
conductivity increase, and the I P decrease might be due to the accumulated photogenerated holes that
destroyed the symmetry of the double barrier and then reduced the peak transmission coefficient.
The experimental I P and IV and peak-to-valley current ratio PVCR for the devices with different
values of w under illumination (solid lines) and dark (dashed lines) at -170 o C are plotted in Fig.4. The
devices are all with r of 20m . In w ranging from 150 to about 50m under dark and to about 70m under
illumination, the I P and IV do not change much. This implies that the lateral current is confined mostly
within a region of w=50m under dark and 70m under illumination in our devices. The wider
confinement region of the lateral current under illumination results from the cap-layer conductivity enhanced
by incident light. From dark to illumination condition at a fixed value of w, since the lowered barrier by
accumulated photogenerated holes in the InGaAs well causes the I P and IV increase, and the increased
cap-layer conductivity by incident light makes the I P increase and IV decrease, as previously mentioned,
the increment of I P is much larger than that of IV and thus the PVCR is increased, as shown in Fig.4.
8Figure 3. Experimental current-voltage characteristics of the studied device with r=20m and w=20m
under illumination (solid lines) and dark (dashed lines) at -170 o C .
Figure 4. Experimental peak current I P and valley current IV and peak-to-valley current ratio PVCR for
the studied devices with difference values of w under illumination (solid lines) and dark (dashed lines) at
-170 o C . The devices are all with r of 20m .
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was supported by the National Science Council of the Republic of China under Contract No.
NSC 99-2221-E-013-003.
10
December 21, 2010
Prof. Der-Feng Guo
Air Force Academy
P.O. BOX 14-49 KANGSHAN
KAOHSIUNG, 820
Taiwan
Dear Prof. Der-Feng Guo:
We are pleased to inform you that the following submission has been accepted for presentation at the 219th
ECS Meeting in Montreal, Canada (May 1 - 6, 2011):
Abstract Number/Title: # 2066: "Miniband-Resonant-Tunneling Optoelectronic Device" by D. Guo
Presentation Type: Oral
Date/Time/Location: Tuesday, May 3, 2011 at 08:20h in Room 516E, Level 5
Symposium: J1 - Sensors, Actuators, and Microsystems General Session
The entire technical program for the Meeting, including the abstracts, is currently available on the
ECS website (http://www.electrochem.org). Please keep the following guidelines in mind as you
make your arrangements.
MEETING REGISTRATION: All authors attending the Meeting, including invited speakers, must
pay the registration fee in order to present their paper. Online registration will open in early January
and and you may register here at that time:
http://www.electrochem.org/meetings/biannual/219/219.htm The Early-Bird registration is April 1,
2011.
HOTEL RESERVATIONS: The meeting will be held at The Montreal Convention Center (Palais des
Congres de Montreal), and special rates have been reserved at hotels closest to the Convention Center.
Online reservations will open in early January and you may reserve your room here at that time:
http://www.electrochem.org/meetings/biannual/219/219.htm The hotel reservation deadline is April 1,
2011. We encourage you to make your reservations as soon as possible since we expect the
hotels to fill up quickly.
REVISED POSTER INFORMATION: Poster presentations must be displayed in English, on a board
approximately 3 feet 10 inches high by 3 feet 10 inches wide (1.17 meters by 1.17 meters wide),
and correspond to the abstract number and day of presentation as detailed in the final program.
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/20
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 光電元件之研究,設計與製作(II)
計畫主持人: 郭德豐
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-013-003- 學門領域: 固態電子
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
