行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
考慮高速特性之高速端銑削加工動態穩定研究 (III)
Study on the Stability of High-Speed End Milling Process
Considering High-Speed Effects(III)
計畫編號 : NSC 97-2221-E-035-098-
執行期限 : 2008年08月01日至2009年08月31日
主持人 : 林棋瑋/逢甲大學工業工程與系統管理學系
一、 中文摘要
高速切削加工是一種可以大幅提升生產力以及減少生產成本的技術, 然而, 上述的生產力之提升往
往會受到 chatter 的限制, 在端銑削的作業中尤為明顯。 因此, 隨著主軸轉速的日漸提高, 如何避
開 chatter 以增加材料移除率吸引了越來越多的注意, 而選用最佳的主軸速度也成了高速加工中
一個非常重要的考量因素。 為了解決上述問題, 本研究首先針對高速主軸系統建立一個考慮高速效
應的有限元素整合動態特性模型, 然後結合端銑削切削力模型, 並利用數值積分的方法, 可於 time
domain 模擬高速端銑削之 chatter 現象。 由模擬結果我們可以發現, 高速效應對於高速端銑削的
chatter 具有相當程度的影響。
關鍵詞:高速切削, 端銑削, Chatter
Abstract
High-speed machining is a promising technology for drastically increasing productivity and
reducing production costs. However, the productivity is often limited by chatter rather than
by other process constraints when machining with end mills. Therefore, as spindle speeds
have increased, capability of using the stability lobes diagrams to increase metal removal
rates and precisely deciding the optimum spindle speeds has become more essential. In
this research, an integrated FEM model of high-speed spindle system considering high-speed
effects and a high-speed end milling process model are developed. These models are applied
in the time domain chatter simulation with numerical integrating technique. In the results,
we can find that the high-speed effects on end-milling chatter are significant.
Keywords:High-Speed Machining, End Milling, Chatter
ri
ft,i
fr,i
ӽ˼
xy
Feed
Tooth 1
Tooth i
Ө
圖 1. 端銑削的切削示意圖
其中 cr 為一常數。 切刃 i 所產生的切削力可以投影至旋轉座標的 x 與 y 軸上:
fx,i(t) = −fr,i(t) cosφi − ft,i(t) sinφi
fy,i(t) = fr,i(t) sinφi − ft,i(t) cosφi
(6)
最後, 將每個切刃於 x 與 y 軸的分力加總, 並將式 (4) 與 (5) 帶入, 可得到
fx(t) = ctb
(
m∑
i=1
ui(t) (−cr cos φi − sin φi) ri(t)
)
fy(t) = ctb
(
m∑
i=1
ui(t) (cr sinφi − cosφi) ri(t)
) (7)
其中 ui(t) 為 unit step function; 若切刃 i 是在切削狀態, 則 ui(t) = 1; 否則 ui(t) = 0。
在式 (7) 中, 我們將切削力 fx(t) 與 fy(t) 表達為靜態切屑厚度 (static chip thickness) 的函
數, 然而, 當振動發生的時候, 動態切屑厚度 (dynamic chip thickness), 亦即目前切刃與前一切刃
因為振動而在切痕上所產生的差異,將會影響切削厚度的大小。 切刃 i 的動態切屑厚度 rrd(t) 可表
示為
rid(t) = ri(t)−∆x(t) cosφi +∆y(t) sinφi (8)
其中 ∆x 與 ∆y 為因為切削力的變化而在 x 與 y 方向上所產生的振動位移:
∆x(t) = x(t)− x(t− τ)
∆y(t) = y(t)− y(t− τ) (9)
因此, 將式 (8) 與 (9) 代入式 (7), 我們可以得到動態切屑厚度所導致的切削力為:
{
fx
fy
}
= ctb


m∑
i=1
ui(t) (−cr cosφi − sinφi) ri(t)
m∑
i=1
ui(t) (−cr cosφi − sinφi) ri(t)

+ctb
[
cd,xx(t) cd,xy(t)
cd,yx(t) cd,yy(t)
]{
x(t)− x(t− τ)
y(t)− y(t− τ)
}
(10)
0 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06
−8
−6
−4
−2
0
2
4
6
8
x 10−5
t (sec)
x 
(µ 
m
)
圖 4. 端銑削 chatter 模擬 (b=2.0 mm)
0 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06
−8
−6
−4
−2
0
2
4
6
8
10
x 10−5
t (sec)
x 
(µ 
m
)
圖 5. 考慮高速效應之端銑削 chatter 模擬
(b=2.0 mm)
五、 參考文獻
[1] J. Tlusty and M. Polacek, “The stability of the machine tool against self excited vibration
in machining”, in ASME Proceedings of the Engineering Research Conference, 1963, pp.
465–474.
[2] C.W. Lin, “Stability of high-speed end milling process considering high-speed effects”,
in The 8th Asia-Pacific Conference on Materials Processing, Guilin-Guangzhou, China,
2008.
[3] C.W. Lin, J.F. Tu, and J. Kamman, “An integrated thermo-mechanical-dynamic model
to characterize motorized machine tool spindles during very high speed rotation”, Inter-
national Journal of Machine Tools and Manufacture, vol. 43, pp. 1035–1050, 2003.
[4] J. Tlusty, Manufacturing process and equipment, Prentice Hall, 2000.
The Effect of Bearing Preload on the Lobes Diagram of
High-Speed End Milling Process∗
Chi-Wei Lin
Department of Industrial Engineering and Systems Management
Feng Chia University
Taichung, Taiwan
cwlin@fcu.edu.tw
Abstract—The productivity of high-speed machining is often
limited by chatter rather than by other process constraints
when machining with end mills. Therefore, as spindle speeds
have increased, capability of using the stability lobes diagrams
to increase metal removal rates and precisely deciding the
optimum spindle speeds in the design stage has become more
essential. In this research, an integrated FEM stability model
of high-speed end milling process considering high-speed effects
is introduced and then an algorithm for generating the lobes
diagram is developed. The results show that the first mode
natural frequency increases at all speeds by increasing the rear
bearing preload. Moreover, the allowable axial depth of cut is
under-predicted if the high-speed effects are neglected. Finally,
if the initial preload of the rear bearing set increases, the whole
stability lobe shifts to the right with respect to the lobe of the
original design.
Index Terms—High-Speed End Milling, Finite Element
Model, Lobes Diagram, Chatter, Bearing Preload.
I. INTRODUCTION
High-speed machining is a relatively new branch of the
modern manufacturing technology. Although theories of
high-speed metal cutting were reported in the 1930s, machine
tools capable of achieving these cutting speeds did not
exist commercially until the 1980s. This late acceptance
was mostly due to the performance and reliability problems
caused by complicated high-speed effects. Therefore, to re-
alize the advantages of high-speed machining, it is critical to
consider these high speed effects in the design stage.
The main design requirement of machine tools is con-
cerned with achieving desired surface finish and dimensional
accuracy of the part without sacrificing machine’s reliability
and integrity. Important design factors include weight, cutting
forces, forced vibrations, self-excited vibrations, and thermal
expansions [1]. The problems caused by forced and self-
excited vibrations during operating are more difficult to
predict, particularly at high speeds. The forced vibration
is primarily due to the unbalanced mass of the rotating
spindle, while the self-excited vibration is induced by the
cutting process. These two processes are all highly related
∗This research is supported by the NSC of R.O.C under the grant No.
NSC 96-2221-E-035-098-
to the dynamic characteristics of machine tool spindles.
The dynamics of high-speed motorized spindles is highly
complicated, because it consists of several thermally and me-
chanically interactive phenomena with non-linear and closed-
loop natures. An integrated FEM model has been developed
by Lin et al. [2] to combine the changes of the bearing
stiffness and shaft rigidity to determine the overall spindle-
bearing system dynamics. The thermal model adapted in
the integrated dynamic model was developed by Bossmanns
and Tu [3, 4]. Based on this temperature field analysis, an
extended thermal preload model was developed also by Lin et
al. [2] to predict thermally induced preload and its influence
on bearing stiffness.
From the essential physical models required to describe
the dynamic properties of spindle systems, we can identify
several main design variables, such as the bearing preload,
which are required to be decided in the design stage. Al-
Shareef and Brandon [5] constructed a simplified multi-
stepped spindle-bearing system model to investigate the ef-
fects of design variables to the static stiffness in the cutting
zone for short overhang spindles. In another paper, they
used influence coefficient method to investigate the effects
of design variables on the dynamic performance of spindle-
bearing systems [6]. However, the speed effect was not
considered. Kang et al. [7] analyzed the effects of design
variables on static and dynamic performance of spindle-
bearing systems by using the Finite Element Method. The
only high speed effect included in their FEM was gyroscopic
moments. Li and Shin [8] published a paper to investigate the
effects of bearing configuration. Maeda et al. [9] proposed a
bearing spacing optimization strategy to facilitate chatter free
operations based on the digital model developed by Altintas
and Cao [10].
Chatter, developed through ”regeneration of waviness” on
a machined surface, is a closed-loop self-excited type of
vibration in cutting that occurs when the chip width is too
large with respect to the dynamic stiffness of the system.
Under such a condition, the self-excited vibration starts and
quickly grows; the cutting force becomes oscillated, reaching
considerable amplitudes; the machined surface becomes un-
dulated; and the chip thickness may develop to the extreme
ri
ft,i
fr,i
ӽ˼
xy
Feed
Tooth 1
Tooth i
Ө
Fig. 2. The end milling process model
The total deformation of the bearing in the direction of line
of contact Δ0 can be expressed as the following equation
Δ0 = Δ1 + Δ2 cos θ −Δ3 sin θ (7)
where Δ1 is the axial thermal expansion difference, which
is mostly caused by the shaft and the spacer; Δ2 is the
thermal expansion difference of the inner ring and outer ring
in the radial direction; and Δ3 is the expansion of the rolling
elements.
Then, the thermally induced preload can be obtained as
Pa,t = ktΔ1.50 (8)
where kt is an equivalent spring constant, which is obtained
empirically. Equations. (7) and (8) are then used to determine
Pa,t and subsequently the bearing stiffness subject to thermal
preload which can be determined.
B. Model of End Milling Process
A typical end milling process with an m-toothed cutter is
shown in Fig. 2. Assume that the frame [xyz] rotating with
the spindle shaft, the z axis coincides with the center line
of the spindle shaft, the x axis coincides with the first tooth,
and the cutting patch is a circular arc. If the position angles
of teeth are measured from the first tooth counterclockwise,
the angle of tooth i can be written as
φi =
2πi
m
(9)
and when the spindle speed is Ω rpm, the tooth passing period
time τ equates to
τ =
2π
mΩ
(10)
The cutting forces produced by each tooth during cutting
can be divided into tangential and normal components. The
tangential cutting forces of tooth is proportional to the chip
cross section [11]
ft,i = ctbri (11)
where ct is the specific force, b is the axial depth of cut and
ri is the chip thickness of the tooth i; the normal force fr,i
of tooth can be expressed as
fr,i = crctbri (12)
where cr is a constant. The forces acting on the tooth i can
then be projected into the x and y axes of the rotating frame
as
fx,i = −fr,i cosφi − ft,i sinφi
fy,i = fr,i sinφi − ft,i cosφi (13)
Finally, the milling forces components fx and fy can be
obtained by summing up all the forces acting on the teeth
and substituting (11) and (12) into them :
fx = ctb
(
m∑
i=1
ui (−cr cosφi − sinφi) ri
)
fy = ctb
(
m∑
i=1
ui (cr sinφi − cosφi) ri
) (14)
where ui is a unit step function; if the cutter i is under cutting,
ui = 1; otherwise, ui = 0.
C. Stability Mechanism of End Milling
In (14), we represented the cutting forces fx and fy as
functions of the static chip thickness. However, if vibration
happens, the dynamic chip thickness Δr, i.e. the difference
between the current tooth and the previous tooth on the
cutting marks due to vibration, will be used instead to analyze
the stability phenomenon, and it can be expressed as
Δri = −Δx cosφi + Δy sinφi (15)
where Δx and Δy are the vibrating displacements caused
by the variation of cutting forces in the x and y directions
respectively, and
Δx = x(t) − x(t− τ)
Δy = y(t)− y(t− τ) (16)
Therefore, the cutting forces generated by the dynamic
chip thickness can then be obtained by substituting (15) and
(16) into (14):{
fx
fy
}
= ctb
[
cd,xx cd,xy
cd,yx cd,yy
]{
x(t)− x(t− τ)
y(t)− y(t− τ)
}
(17)
where
cd,xx =
m∑
i=1
(ui (cr cosφi + sinφi) cosφi)
cd,xy =
m∑
i=1
(ui (−cr cosφi − sinφi) sinφi)
cd,yx =
m∑
i=1
(ui (−cr sinφi + cosφi) cosφi)
cd,yy =
m∑
i=1
(ui (cr sinφi − cosφi) sinφi)
(18)
Equation (17) can be easily transferred to possess the same
degrees of freedom as the finite element model represented
Fig. 4. Elements of the spindle system
200 250 300 350 400 450 500 550 600 650
760
780
800
820
840
860
880
Bearing Preload (N)
Fi
rs
t M
od
e 
Na
tu
ra
l F
re
qu
en
cy
 (H
z)
0 rpm
5,000 rpm
10,000 rpm
15,000 rpm
20,000 rpm
25,000 rpm
nominal value
Fig. 5. The effects of the bearing initial preload on the first mode natural
frequency
by any physical barriers. However, for practical reasons, its
variation is limited between 50 percents to 200 percents of
the factory specified value. Figure 5 shows the effects of
preload on the first mode natural frequency. By increasing
the rear bearing preload, the first mode natural frequency
increases at all speeds. Note that the stiffness of the spindle
system softens at higher speeds as discussed in [2]. Figure 5
indicates that by increasing the rear bearing preload, the first
mode natural frequency can be recovered to some extent but
are still lower than the values at 0 rpm [17]. Note that rear
bearing preload can not be increased indefinitely because it
can cause thermal instability [18, 19].
To investigate the high-speed effects on process stability,
lobes diagrams of spindle speeds at 0 rpm and 25,000
rpm are generated separately, and the results show that the
stability lobes of 25,000 rpm split into two, i.e. the forward
and backward modes, because of gyroscopic effects [20].
Moreover, comparing to the lobes of 0 rpm, the ones of
25,000 rpm shift to their left. The minimum values of blim
of 25,000 rpm are larger than those of 0 rpm mainly due to
the centrifugal and high-speed thermal effects.
Next, following the proposed algorithm, the lobes diagram
of the spindle system considering high-speed effects can be
generated. The algorithm is executed once at every spindle
speed starting from 13,000 rpm to 21,000 rpm, with a 1,000
rpm decrement. For example, if the spindle speed is 15,000
rpm, the lobes diagram can be generated by following steps
2 and 3 of the algorithm, and the only valid point can be
identified by drawing a vertical line passing 15,000 rpm.
13,000 14,000 15,000 16,000 17,000 18,000 19,000 20,000 21,000
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
x 10−4
Spindle Speed (rpm)
b li
m
 
(m
)
neglected high−speed effects
considered high−speed effects
Fig. 6. The lobes diagram (N = 0) with high-speed effects
Repeating steps 2 and 3 until spindle speed reaches 21,000
rpm, a lobes diagram considering high-speed effects is ob-
tained as Fig. 6 , where also shows the original lobes diagram
of 0 rpm. From the figure, we can discover that the right wing
of the stability lobe of N = 0 diverges from the original lobe
due to the high-speed effects. Note that if the high-speed
effects are considered, the stability lobes shift up, which
means that the allowable axial depth of cut is under-predicted
if the high-speed effects are neglected, and thus confirms the
results of [13] and [15].
Followed the analysis of dynamics, that is, the initial
preload of the rear bearing pairs is increased to two times and
decreased to half of the initial value (340 N ), the stability
lobes (N = 0) for these two cases can be generated as
shown in Fig. 7, where the initial lobes are also presented.
From Fig. 7, it can be found that the whole stability lobe for
the case of increasing preload shifts right to the initial lobe
because the system stiffness is increased. Another interesting
phenomenon we can also observe from the figure is that if the
spindle speeds are over 16,200 rpm, the blim can be enhanced
by decreasing the preload and, however, if the spindle speeds
are under 16,200 rpm, the blim can be enhanced by increasing
the preload instead.
IV. CONCLUSION
In this paper, an integrated FEM stability model of high-
speed end milling process considering high-speed effects is
developed. An algorithm for generating the lobes diagram is
proposed based on the comprehensive model. The influence
of rear bearing preload is also investigated. Based on the
results, the following conclusions are presented:
1) By increasing the rear bearing preload, the first mode
natural frequency increases at all speeds.
2) The allowable axial depth of cut is under-predicted if
the high-speed effects are neglected.
