 2
technology. For manufacturing consideration, 
the FinFET (Fig. 2) has been of interest, the two 
gates of which are naturally connected without 
the alignment concern for the top-down 
double-gate structure. Recently, the triple-gate 
MOSFET, which shows acceptable SCEs with a 
more flexible body dimension over fully 
depleted SOI or double-gate transistor structures, 
was proposed [3]. The triple-gate structure can 
be conceptually converted from the FinFET (Fig. 
2) with equal oxide thickness around the gate. 
To expedite the technology development, a 
good understanding of the underlying physics is 
essential. For this purpose, the predictive 
compact model usually plays an important role. 
Regarding the SCEs, many models have been 
developed [4-7]. We revisited a 2D modeling 
scheme and applied it to the noted advanced 
multi-gate devices. Physical insights into the 
SCEs are given through the modeling work for 
potential distribution in the device channel and 
are discussed in depth with numerical simulation 
[8]. 
IV. 2D potential modeling 
To start our modeling work, we first 
directly apply a model, which was originally 
developed for conventional or double-gate 
transistors [4-7], to the FinFET and triple-gate 
devices for assessment of the model utility for 
the two devices. Though the triple-gate device 
has an advantage in simpler manufacturing due 
to its more flexible body dimension, the 
modeling for its additional third gate is not 
straightforward. The original 2D model provides 
a good basis for the 3D study.  
From the device structure point of view, the 
FinFET or triple-gate device can be treated as a 
symmetrical double-gate device by looking into 
the X direction. On the other hand, the device 
can be considered as a single-gate device by 
looking into the Z direction. A single device 
could have different device characteristics 
depending on which way you are looking at. 
Hence we assume the indirect coupling by 
combining the electric potential models 
evaluated separately for different electric field 
directions. The model prediction is then 
compared with the numerical simulation.  
Following the 2D modeling methodology 
[4-7], we derive the potential distribution 
function for the double-gate channel, as listed in 
(1) – (3). We compare the analytical results with 
the numerical simulation data for all nFET 
devices with L = 25 nm, tox (gate oxide) = 1.3 
nm, and tsi (silicon film thickness) = 12.5 nm. 
Fig. 3 shows the potential distributions from 
source to drain at the middle of the device width 
and the middle of the silicon film (mid-z and 
mid-y for the planar double-gate device and 
mid-z and mid-x for the nonplanar FinFET and 
triple-gate devices). As can be seen, all the three 
devices have similar results and the model is in 
good agreement with the numerical simulation 
along the channel direction. Hence SCEs should 
be predictable with the analytical model because 
volume inversion existing in the location we are 
looking at is predominant in weak inversion.  
Fig. 4 shows the potential distributions 
between the two gates of the double-gate device 
and FinFET and between the two side gates of 
the triple-gate device at the middle of the 
channel (mid-z and mid-x for the planar 
double-gate device and mid-z and mid-y for the 
nonplanar FinFET and triple-gate devices). They 
all show similar trends, implying volume 
inversion even for the triple-gate case with an 
 4
Drain Source 
Channel length
Fi
lm
 th
ic
kn
es
s 
X 
Device width Z 
Y
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
2.00
2.25
0 5 10 15 20 25
 Direction of channel length (nm)
El
ec
tri
c 
po
te
nt
ia
l (
V
) Analysis
DG MOSFET
FinFET
Triple-Gate MOSFET
0.00
0.10
0.20
0.30
0.40
0.50
0.0 2.5 5.0 7.5 10.0 12.5
Direction of film thickness (nm)
El
ec
tri
c 
po
te
nt
ia
l (
V
)
Analysis
DG MOSFET
FinFET
Triple-Gate MOSFET
0.00
0.10
0.20
0.30
0.40
0.50
0.0 2.5 5.0 7.5 10.0 12.5
Direction of film width (nm)
El
ec
tri
c 
po
te
nt
ia
l (
V
)
Analysis
DG MOSFET
FinFET
Triple-Gate MOSFET
[5] D. J. Frank, Y. Taur and H.-S. P. Wong, “Generalized 
scale length for two-dimensional effects in 
MOSFET’s,” IEEE Electron Device Letters, pp. 
385-387, vol. 19, Oct. 1998. 
[6] X. Liang, “Analytical modeling of short channel 
effects in double gate MOSFET,” Ph.D. dissertation, 
University of California, San Diego, CA, U.S.A., 
2006. 
[7] Y. Taur and T. H. Ning, “Fundamentals of modern 
VLSI devices,” Cambridge, 1998. 
[8] Taurus-Device, User Guide, ver. X-2005.10, Synopsis, 
Inc., 2005. 
[9] H.-K. Lim and J. G. Fossum, “Threshold voltage of 
thin-film Silicon-on-Insulator (SOI) MOSFET’s,” 
IEEE Trans. Electron Devices, pp. 1244-1251, vol. 
ED-30, Oct. 1983. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. The double-gate MOSFET where the x axis is in 
the direction along the channel length and the y axis is in 
the direction of the film thickness. 
 
 
Fig. 2. The double-gate FinFET structure (not to scale) 
where the y direction represents the channel length and the 
top-gate oxide is assumed 10x thicker than the side-gate 
oxide. The cross-section of the channel along X is 
assumed square and the buried oxide (BOX) thickness is 
200 nm. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3. Predicted potential distributions from source to 
drain at the middle of the device width and the middle of 
the silicon film (mid-z and mid-y for the planar 
double-gate device and mid-z and mid-x for the nonplanar 
FinFET and triple-gate devices). (L = 25nm, VDS = 1.1 V, 
VGS = 0 V) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4. Predicted potential distributions between the two 
gates of the double-gate device and FinFET and between 
the two side gates of the triple-gate device at the middle of 
the channel (mid-z and mid-x for the planar double-gate 
device and mid-z and mid-y for the nonplanar FinFET and 
triple-gate devices). (L = 25nm, VDS = 1.1 V, VGS = 0 V) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5. Predicted potential distributions along the channel (film) 
width direction (mid-y and mid-x) for the double-gate, FinFET 
Buried oxide 
X 
Source
Gate 
Substrate 
Z 
Y Drain
  
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC-95-2215-E-197-003 
計畫名稱 多重閘極場效電晶體的短通道效應之模型與分析 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
江孟學 
副教授 
會議時間地點 民國九十五年十月二日至十月五日在美國紐約州尼加拉瀑布  (Niagara Falls) 
會議名稱 2006 IEEE 國際絕緣層上矽研討會(2006 IEEE International SOI Conference)
發表論文題目 奈米級三閘極電晶體的最佳化設計(Optimal Design of Nanoscale Triple-Gate Devices) 
 
一、參加會議經過： 
2006 IEEE 國際絕緣層上矽研討會(2006 IEEE International SOI Conference)於民國九
十五年十月二日至十月五日在美國紐約州尼加拉瀑布 (Niagara Falls)舉行，會議地點為假
日飯店 (Holiday Inn Select)。會議之主辦單位為國際電機電子工程師學會(Institute of 
Electrical and Electronics Engineers)的電子元件協會(Electron Devices Society)。討論的議題
含括 SOI 相關先進技術的開發、理論的推演及最新的電路應用，會議技術主題區分為七
個 主 軸 ： (1) High Performance and Low Power Devices ， (2) SOI Materials and 
Characterization ， (3) Device Physics and Modeling ， (4) SOI Memories ， (5) Circuit 
Techniques and Applications，(6) Multi-Gate Devices，(7) Novel Devices。大會主席為 IBM
的 Dr. Christophe Tretz，與會人士多為工業界及學術界在此領域的專家，包括來自於美、
歐、日本及南韓等國。 
 筆者發表之論文係歸類於(6) Multi-Gate Devices，筆者於 Session 8 發表一篇有關於
三閘極電晶體之研究成果，題目為「奈米級三閘極電晶體的最佳化設計」(Optimal Design 
of Nanoscale Triple-Gate Devices)。此論文提出新穎三閘極場效電晶體的設計方式，並找出
掺雜濃度及閘極圓角化對元件特性的影響。 
 
  
Optimal Design of Nanoscale Triple-Gate Devices 
Meng-Hsueh Chiang, Tze-Neng Lin, Keunwoo Kim*, Ching-Te Chuang*, and Christophe Tretz** 
National Ilan University, I-Lan 260, Taiwan, ROC 
*IBM T. J. Watson Research Center, Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA 
**IBM System and Technology Group, Somers, NY 10589, USA 
Email: mhchiang@niu.edu.tw, Tel: +886-3-935-7400 ext. 653 
Introduction 
 As CMOS technology approaches the theoretical scaling 
limit, good control of short-channel effects (SCEs) has 
become one of the major challenges for device scaling. 
Several emerging planar and non-planar structures have been 
proposed to extend CMOS scaling [1]. Among these devices, 
the triple-gate (TG) MOSFET (Fig. 1) shows acceptable SCEs 
with more flexible body dimension over fully depleted (FD) 
SOI or double-gate (DG) transistor structures [2]. However, 
the mobile carrier density of the TG device is higher in the 
corner than the other potions of the channels at low gate 
voltage, which degrades the subthreshold slope. Furthermore, 
the corner effects are more significant at high doping levels, 
thus directly affecting the device profile design [3-5].  
 In this paper, we present pragmatic TG design 
considerations with corner rounding and body-doping profiles 
and investigate their impacts on SCEs and other device 
characteristics, and compared them with the ideal case of 
rectangular corners via 3-D numerical simulations [6].  
Heavily Doped Devices 
 We first examine the control of SCE’s via doping profile 
design with corner rounding accounted for. The device 
structure under study has a cross-sectional body dimension of 
HSi = 25 nm and WSi = 25 nm (Fig. 1), L (effective) = 25 nm, 
gate-oxide thickness (physical) = 1 nm, and buried oxide 
thickness = 200 nm. Fig. 2 shows DIBL vs. body doping for 
different radii of corner curvature r for the top corners. As 
expected, DIBL of the non-rectangular case is slightly higher 
(due to less SCE control in rounded corners) but not 
significant, as further demonstrated in the subthreshold region 
of the I-V characteristics in Fig. 3. The non-critical effect of 
corner rounding on SCE eases the rectangular body 
requirement in TG technology. However, very high doping 
appears necessary in order to suppress DIBL (< 100 mV/V). 
This is technologically challenging and the performance trade-
off requires thorough study, as the silicon body could become 
partially depleted, causing floating-body effects, and the 
junction tunneling leakage could also become an issue.  
  Fig. 4 shows the impact of corner rounding at very high 
doping (Na = 3x1019 cm-3) on gm variations. Evidently, the bi-
modal (two peaks) behavior reveals the two separate VT’s 
associated with the body corners and top/sidewalls, 
respectively. The corners, corresponding to the first peak, turn 
on earlier due to high electric fields at sharp edges.  For non-
rectangular case (r = 5 nm), the two peaks are closer since the 
sharp edge effects are alleviated. As can be seen in Fig. 5(a) (r 
= 5 nm), the corner conduction is not as predominant since the 
electron is well distributed around the rounded corners instead 
of crowded at sharp edges. For the near-cylindrical case (r = 
10 nm), the sharp-edge effects almost diminish completely. 
For moderately high Na (5x1018 cm-3), the bi-modal behavior 
in VT virtually disappears as the electron density is quite 
uniform around the corners, top and sidewalls, as indicated in 
Fig. 5(b) where the three sides of the gate conduct 
simultaneously.  
Lightly Doped Devices 
 Due to technology simplicity, the TG device with 
undoped or lightly doped body is preferred. Nonetheless, in 
this case the DIBL would be unacceptably high with the same 
device size used for high body doping. Rather than adjusting 
doping, ratios of WSi and HSi to channel length must be 
reduced to achieve good SCEs [5]. Here we reduce WSi and 
HSi to half of the channel length for proper DIBL (73 mV/V). 
Fig. 6 shows the simulated electron density in the channel for 
Na = 1x1016 cm-3, which benefits from volume inversion as the 
center of silicon film becomes the predominant conduction 
channel in the subthreshold regime. Fig. 7 shows the 
simulated IDS vs. VGS for different radii of corner curvature at 
Na = 1x1016 cm-3. Contrary to the high doping case, DIBL 
decreases slightly as r increases due to the effectively reduced 
WSi near the top portion of the channel for large r, as depicted 
in Fig. 8.  
Performance Analysis 
 Due to different inversion conditions for heavily-doped 
body and lightly-doped body, device structure with corner 
rounding can be optimized to improve performance. In the 
subthreshold regime, the lightly doped case is predominantly 
affected by volume inversion whereas corner inversion is the 
main contribution to Ioff for the heavily doped case. Therefore, 
corner rounding has very little impact on Ioff for devices with 
lightly-doped body. In strong inversion, corner and edge 
inversions become more significant regardless of body doping 
and hence the shape of corners will have an impact on Ion. Fig. 
9 shows Ieff (the effective current during switching [7]) vs. 
body doping for different radii of corner curvature. For the 
very high Na, we observe that Ieff increases with r due to 
additional top/sidewall conduction in strong inversion regime 
as the second peak (top/sidewall conduction) in Fig. 4 moves 
towards lower VGS and eventually merges with the first peak 
(corner conduction). As a result, all edges, top, and sidewalls 
conduct simultaneously, resulting in a higher current. Thus, 
semi-cylindrical (tube-like) body would be preferable to 
improve performance without the sharp-edge effects. Note that 
since the body dimension of the low Na (1x1016 cm-3) case is 
half of that of the other two higher Na cases, it has the highest 
effective Ion per unit device width and the best CV/I due to 
inherent advantages such as higher mobility and steeper 
subthreshold slope from gate-to-gate capacitive coupling. 
Volume inversion also improves the subthreshold slope (the 
benefit reduces as doping increases). Contrary to the heavily 
doped case, the rectangular corners (r = 0 nm) seem 
advantageous to Ion for the low Na case as the high electric 
fields at sharp edges facilitate volume inversion and introduce 
additional corner conduction in strong inversion. Fig. 10 
shows Ioff vs. L (r = 0nm) for different body doping levels. 
Though the heavily doped case has larger body dimension, it 
is relatively insensitive to L variation and hence is more 
