2量子點的傳輸特性與其元件應用
“Transport Property and Device Application of Quantum Dots”
計畫編號：NSC98-2221-E-009-175-MY2
執行期間：98年 08月 01日 至 100年 07月 31日
主持人：林聖迪 交通大學電子工程系副教授
一、中文摘要
在此為期兩年的計劃中，我們進行自組
式量子點的傳輸特性與其元件應用的相關研
究，不同於一般使用光學激發與偵測來研究量
子點的方法，電容與電流的量測能提供單一載
子元件應用所需的資訊。在第一年中，我們利
用一倒置的高電子遷移率電晶體(inverted high
electron mobility transistor)，來探討電子在量子
點周圍被捕捉與逃逸的動力學；基於先前對負
微分電容的觀測與模擬，我們使用量子點儲存
電荷狀態來製作記憶體元件，由於量子點的充
電狀態會決定下方二維通道的電導率，所以量
測該元件的汲極源極電流可以讀取其記憶狀
態；我們利用分子束磊晶成長所設計的結構並
設計了各種閘極長度的光罩，完成了元件製作
後，量測發現該元件基本電晶體特性完整，而
且在特定偏壓下，具有之前所觀察到的電容與
頻率的相依特性，顯示我們已達到設定的目
標。
I. Abstract
In this two-year project, we study a field
effect transistor (FET) with self-assembled
quantum dots (QDs) at room temperature. The
frequency-dependent capacitance-voltage (C-V)
characteristics of the device show a
charging-discharging time of 10-3 second for the
ground states of QDs. The AC source-drain
conductivity of the FET device correlates with
the electron occupation at the ground state of
QDs. Our result reveals that the charge
accumulation in InAs QDs modulates the
conductivity of the 2D channel underneath.
II. Background Introduction
In the past two decades, self-assembled
quantum dots (QDs) draw increasing attention of
researchers because of their interesting properties
and potential applications on nano-photonics,
nano-electronics and quantum information
processing. Although optical methods are mostly
used to study the novel features of QDs [1,2],
electrical characterization like current-voltage
(I-V) and capacitance-voltage (C-V)
measurements has the importance on their own.
One of the main reasons is that the coulomb
interaction between carriers in nano-scaled QDs
plays a key role in QDs’ behavior [3]. However, 
it is difficult to optically probe the QDs in the
states with only electrons or holes. In the past
decade, studies on QDs using C-V measurements
have made considerable progress and uncovered
many special features [4-13]. In these reports, the
parameters of QDs or their related defects, such
as concentration, energy levels and capture
cross-sections were determined with static or
transient C-V. Very recently, an interesting
behavior called negative-differential-capacitance
(NDC) was observed at low [5] and room
temperatures [7-9]. The NDC is caused by the
fast charging-discharging process in the confined
states of QDs and actually is a zero-dimensional
effect. The charging-discharging time is in the
order of 10-3 s at room temperature so it is
possible to make memory devices using the
self-assembled InAs QDs [8,13].
To realize QDs memory devices, a
straightforward way is to integrate the QDs with
the field effect transistors (FET). By placing the
QDs near to 2-D electron gases (2DEG), the
charge states of QDs can be read out by
monitoring the conductance of the 2-D channel.
The gate of FET above the QDs and 2DEG can
be used to electrically control the charge states of
QDs (write-in). Previous papers show pretty
good memory function, such as long storage time
and fast write-in/read-out time, but mostly at
cryo-temperature [14-16]. QDs memory devices
operating at room temperature have also been
reported but the charged levels may be related to
the defects around QDs rather than the QDs
themselves [17-18], which would be an issue in
4photo image taken from the processed/measured
device with gate length of 16 m. The
measurement was done with the source-drain
voltage of 50 mV. Note that the ISD does not
enter the saturation region up to VGS = 2.0 V due
to the long gate length of our devices. A
threshold voltage of 0.5 V of the FET device
without QDs was observed clearly. For the
device with QDs, the turn-on behavior at about
0.6-0.7 V is not that clear probably due to the
leakage current between the gate and QDs layer.
Its higher threshold voltage is caused by that the
electron accumulation in QDs lowers the
electron population in 2-D channel as mentioned
above. Beyond the threshold voltage, we can see
the transconductance of the device with QDs is
lower than that without QDs due to the
additional scattering from the nearby QDs.
Fig.2. The I-V characteristics of the FET devices
with and without QDs. Inset: the photo
image of the FET device with the gate length
of 16m.
To understand the dynamical behavior of
QDs, we performed the frequency-dependent
C-V measurement with the two terminals of the
gate and the source. The measurement setup is
similar to that in our previous paper [8]. The
frequencies of small AC signal range from 200
to 20 kHz. In Fig.3, the C-V curves of both
samples with the positive gate voltages at
various testing frequencies are shown. A first
glance on both figures reveals that, the C-V
dependence on either the frequency or the gate
voltage is quite similar for the devices with and
without QDs. A rapid increase of capacitance is
observed around the threshold voltages of the
two devices (0.5 - 0.7 V), because of the
formation of 2DEG layer. Comparing with the
device without QDs, the capacitance of the
device with QDs rises more slowly due to its
higher channel resistance. The signals of both
devices decrease as the testing frequencies
increases, which is probably limited by the
parametric RC delay of our testing setup.
Fig.3. The frequency-dependent C-V curves from
the FET device with (a) and without (b)
QDs under positive gate voltages.
Let us focus one the C-V curves at the
negative gate voltages in Fig. 4, in which there
are two signals (peaks around -1.2 V and 0 V)
varying with the testing frequency. These two
frequency-dependent signals were not observed
at all in the FET device without QDs, as shown
in the inset of Fig. 4. We suspect that the signal
around -1.2 V comes from the
charging-discharging of the ground states in QDs
for the following reasons. First, considering the
distance ratio between gate/QDs (80 nm) and
QDs/2DEG (20 nm) (4:1), the voltage difference
6frequency reaches at 20 kHz but the transmission
coefficient survives even at 150 kHz. One
possible cause is that the setup in the inset of Fig.
5 is much more sensitive than the C-V
measurement as the signal is amplified by the
FET first. The other reason may be that their
testing conditions are slightly different. When
the C-V measurement is carried out, the electric
current may pass through either the source
contact or the Schottky gate. However, for the
transmission coefficient, only the electric current
go through the source contact to be measured. In
other words, the accumulated/released charges
could not be seen directly with the transmission
coefficient measurement. The
charging/discharging process tends to be slower
so the C-V signal dies out at high testing
frequencies. This also provides an alternative
viewpoint at the effect shown in Fig. 5. The
frequency dependence of the transmission
coefficient may be caused by the electrons
tunneling from the QDs to the 2D channel. At
VGS ~ -1.2 V, there is no electron population in
the 2D channel but the ground state of QDs is
about to be occupied. The small modulation of
gate voltage can induce the electron tunneling
between the QDs and the lowest states of 2D
channel so the channel conductivity is modulated
at the same frequency. In addition, different
from the C-V curves in Fig. 4, the peak of the
transmission coefficient shifts to more negative
bias when the testing frequency is higher. We
believe that it is caused by the coulomb blockade
effect in the QDs. That is, if there is already one
electron occupying the ground state of QDs, the
second electron has to overcome the potential
barrier added by the coulomb repulsion of the
existing electron. Because the average
occupation number in QDs becomes smaller as
the gate voltage is more negative, the energy
level of ground state in QDs shifts to lower
energy, as well as the peak of the transmission
coefficient.
V. Conclusion
We presented the C-V and I-V results of a
FET device with an InAs QDs layer in this report.
The AC conductivity of the 2-D electron gases
formed by a modulation doped GaAs/AlGaAs
hetero-structure with the nearby QDs layer has
been measured. Comparing with the
frequency-dependent C-V data, the charge
accumulation in InAs QDs modulates the 2-D
channel conductivity. Our results show that the
FET-QDs structure can be a promising candidate
for memory devices working at room
temperature.
Acknowledgement: This work was financially
supported by the National Science Council and
by the ATU Program of Ministry of Education in
Taiwan. We thank the Center of Nano Science
and Technology at National Chiao Tung
University for their equipment support.
References
[1] D. J. Mowbray and M. S. Skolnick, J. Phys.
D: Appl. Phys. 38, 2059 (2005).
[2] C. H. Wu, Y.G. Lin, S. L. Tyan, S. D. Lin
and C. P. Lee, Chinese J. Phys. 43, 847 (2005).
[3] Y. J. Fu, S. D. Lin, M. F. Tsai, H. Lin, C. H.
Lin, H. Y. Chou, S. J. Cheng and W. H.
Chang, Phys. Rev. B 81, 113307 (2009).
[4] A. J. Chiquito, Yu. A. Pusep, S. Mergulhao, J.
C. Galzerani, N. T. Moshegov and D. L.
Miller, J. Appl. Phys. 88, 1987 (2000).
[5] A. J. Chiquito, Yu. A. Pusep, S. Mergulhao, J.
C. Galzerani and N. T. Moshegov, Phys. Rev.
B 61, 5499 (2000).
[6] V. V. Ilchenko, S. D. Lin, C. P. Lee and O. V.
Tretyak, J. Appl. Phys. 89, 1172 (2001).
[7] S. D. Lin, V. V. Ilchenko, V. V. Marin, N. V.
Shkil, A. A. Buyanin, K. Y. Panarin, and O.
V. Tretyak, Appl. Phys. Lett. 90, 263114
(2007).
[8] S. D. Lin, V. V. Ilchenko, V. V. Marin, K. Y.
Panarin, A. A. Buyanin and O. V. Tretyak,
Appl. Phys. Lett. 93, 103103 (2008).
[9] V. V. Ilchenko, V. V. Marin, S. D. Lin, K. Y.
Panarin, A. A. Buyanin and O. V. Tretyak, J.
Phys. D: Appl. Phys. Lett. 41, 235107
(2008).
[10] O. Engstrom, M. Kaniewska and M.
Kaczmarczyk, Appl. Phys. Lett. 95, 013104
(2009).
[11] J. F. Chen, R. C. C. Chen, C. H. Chiang, Y.
F. Chen, Y. H. Wu and L. Chang, Appl. Phys.
(1)錄取通知: 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
                 日本光学会年次学術講演会 
               Optics & Photonics Japan 2010 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
■■講演申込み内容更新完了のお知らせ■■ 
 
Chia-Hao 様 
 
以下の投稿が更新されました。 
The folloing contribution was updated. 
 
講演申込 No: G130 
 
◆登録内容◆ 
演題名 (Title)： 
N/A 
 
発表演者 (Author)： 
N/A 
 
 
申込期間内は変更が可能です。変更等がある場合、下記 URLよりログインして変更して下
さい。 
なお、締切後は変更できませんので、ご注意下さい。 
◆ログイン URL◆ [Login URL] 
一般 (Regular) 
https://solution.dynacom.jp/opj2010/submission.html 
 
シンポジウム招待講演者 (Invited Speaker) 
https://solution.dynacom.jp/opj2010/symposium.html 
 
 
◆一般講演申込期間◆ [Application Period] 
2010 年 6月 29日（火）～ 2010年 8月 13日（金）：延長しました 
June 29, 2010 (Tue) - August 13, 2010 (Fri) 
Room temperature 2.38 μm laser using InGaAs/GaAsSb W-type quantum wells on 
InP substrate 
 
 
C. H. Pan
1)
 
○
C. H. Chang
1)
 S.D.Lin
1)
 and C.P.Lee
1) 
 
 
Department of Electronics Engineering, National Chiao Tung University, 1001 Ta Hsueh Road, 
Hsinchu 300, Taiwan
 1)
 
E-mail: Chiahao.ee96g@nctu.edu.tw 
 
 
 The optically-pumped laser using InGaAs/GaAsSb W-type QWs is demonstrated with a threshold power 
 density ~40 kW/cm
2
. The L-L curve and the dramatic linewidth shrinkage above threshold confirm the 
first time mid-IR lasing in this structure. 
 
 
1．Introduction 
InAs/InGaAs type-I quantum well has been used to realize mid-infrared lasers on InP substrates 
1)
. However, it 
 is difficult to extend the lasing wavelength further due to its highly-strained structure. Recently, the type II  
“W” type QWs with the InGaAs/GaAsSb staggered band alignment has been proposed as a promising way for  
mid-infrared light source 
2)
. In this work, for the first time, we successfully demonstrate the optical-pumped  
mid-IR laser with 2.38 μm emission wavelength at room temperature using InGaAs/GaAsSb “W” type QWs on 
InP substrate. 
 
 
2．Principle 
    “W” type band structure, shown in Fig. 1, the holes accumulate in the valence band of GaAsSb, and the electrons 
accumulate in the conduction band of InGaAs. They recombine at different momentum space, so the emission 
efficiency is poor compared to type I structure. However, the bandgap is smaller in W-type than in type I structure, so 
the emission wavelength is longer. We use this characteristic to accomplish longer wavelength laser on InP substrate.   
 
 
3．Experiment 
The sample was grown on Si-doped (001) InP substrate by a Veeco GEN Ⅱ molecular beam epitaxy 
system equipped with As and Sb cracking cells. After the growth of a 500nm n-typed In0.52Al0.48As layer, 
the active region is consisted of 15 periods of the “W” QW, with its band alignment shown in Fig. 1, which 
is the symmetric In0.53Ga0.47As/GaAs0.35Sb0.65/In0.53Ga0.47As (4/3/4 nm) layers sandwiched between two 2 
nm In0.36Al0.32Ga0.32As strain-compensated layers and spaced with 5 nm In0.52Al0.48As barrier layers. The 
active region is then followed by a 2.25 μm p-typed In0.52Al0.48As top cladding layer. The sample, without 
fiber laser with a beam size around 1.2 mm. The light of “W” type laser from the cleaved mirror is 
dispersed through a monochromator and detected by a thermal-electric-cooled InGaAsSb photodetector. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Fig. 1 Band diagram of “W” type QW structure. 
0 5 10 15 20 25
-6.0
-5.6
-5.2
-4.8
-4.4
-4.0
InAlGaAs
GaAsSb
InGaAs
InAlAs
 
 
E
n
e
rg
y
 (
e
V
)
Distance (nm)
 Ec (eV)
 Ev (eV)
(3)國外出差心得報告: 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                               日期：2011年 11月   日 
 
                                
一、參加會議經過 
    第一天自行搭地鐵前往位於中央大學的”駿河台記念館”，我參加了早上量子光學/非
線性光學的 session 跟下午的 OSA，SPIE 會長特別講演，其中，最吸引我的主題是:Scanning 
laser displays using vibrating optical fibers and fiber array。一個來自美國華盛頓大學的實驗
室，他們成功地利用壓電材料，加上單模的光纖，以及一些鏡子，做出了多采多姿的投
影技術，以後可以應用在手機上，把手機當成一個投影機，是蠻先進的應用。當天晚上，
計畫編號 
NSC 98－2221－E－009－175－MY2 
計畫名稱 
量子點傳輸特性與元件應用 
出國人員
姓名 
張家豪 
服務
機構
及職
稱 
國立交通大學電子工程研究所 
博士 
會議時間 
2011年 11月 8日至 
2011年 11月 10日 
會議
地點 
日本東京 
中央大學 駿河台記念館 
會議名稱 
(中文)日本光學會年次學術講演會 
(英文)Optics & Photonics Japan  
發表論文
題目 
(中文)可室溫操作波長於 2.38微米之砷化銦鎵/砷銻化鎵 W型量
子井雷射成長於磷化銦基板 
(英文)Room temperature 2.38 μm laser using InGaAs/GaAsSb W-type 
quantum wells on InP substrate 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/09/29
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 量子點傳輸特性與元件應用
計畫主持人: 林聖迪
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-009-175-MY2 學門領域: 固態電子
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
