deposition technique under flowing catalyst method. 
The carbon nanotubes were collected and prepared into 
rope like structures with a diameter of 1 mm and 1.5 
cm in length. Nanotube ropes were later assembled 
onto a stimulation device as a platform for cell 
culture and electrical stimulation. Data acquisition 
device was used as the power source to provide 
electrical stimulation. Scanning electron microscopy, 
energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy, tunneling 
electron microscopy, raman spectroscopy along with 
thermal gravimetric analysis were utilized to assess 
the morphology and quality of the carbon nanotubes. 
WST-1, LDH and Live/Dead assay were conducted to 
assess the cytotoxicity. From the results, carbon 
nanotubes were found to be single walled and of good 
quality. Cytotoxicity assays indicates that carbon 
nanotube rope appears to be little to non cytotoxic. 
Differentiated neural stem cells could be observed to 
sustain on the carbon nanotube rope for 21 days. 
Neurites of neurons on the carbon nanotube rope were 
found to favor extending towards directions similar 
to the spiral topography of the carbon nanotube rope. 
Electrical stimulation was then conducted on cultured 
neural stem cells  and the parameter (5 mV, 0.5 mA, 
25 ms intermittent stimulation) was used for the one 
week stimulation to investigate if microeletrical 
stimulation on electroconductive substrate could 
facilitate axon extension, neurite elongation, and 
neural stem cell maturation. Real time PCR and 
immunocytochemistry will be demonstrated for the 
evaluation. 
英文關鍵詞： Electroconductive substrate, Carbon nanotube ropes,  
Neural stem cells, Microelectrical stimulation 
 
 2 
 
中文摘要 
    奈米碳管自 1991年首度被發現之後，迅速成為廣泛研究的材料之一。十幾年來，奈米碳管不斷的
在奈米材料領域展現出潛力與應用價值。然而直到近年來，奈米碳管與神經科學領域的結合才逐漸的
被探討與開發。本研究主要開發出一種能夠整合奈米碳管繩的裝置，希望藉由這個裝置，我們可以原
位即時的觀察在奈米碳管繩上神經幹細胞的生長分化行為。本研究所開發出來的奈米碳管繩裝置除了
能幫助我們觀察細胞行為外，還能夠讓我們藉由奈米碳管導電的特性來提供細胞在特定電流刺激下，
觀察神經幹細胞的表現，評估未來應用在促進神經再生上的可行性。本研究中，奈米碳管由化學氣相
沉積法所生長出來，收集下來的奈米碳管，再由團狀的型態製備為長約一公分寬約一點五厘米的繩狀
結構，繩狀奈米碳管再進一步組裝成為一個能夠培養細胞與提供電流刺激的裝置。奈米碳管的特性由
掃描式電子顯微鏡、穿隧式電子顯微鏡、X 光能譜分析儀、拉曼光譜、以及熱重分析儀來分析。奈米
碳管的生物相容性藉由 WST-1、LDH還有 Live/Dead染劑進行評估測試。結果顯示本研究所生長出來的
奈米碳管為單壁奈米碳管，且奈米碳管並無顯著的生物毒性。神經幹細胞經過三週的培養仍然能夠存
活在奈米碳管繩上。藉由奈米碳管繩裝置，我們發現神經細胞的突觸結構會受到奈米碳管繩上的表面
結構導引所影響，進而偏好朝向表面螺紋結構的方向生長。另一方面，在神經幹細胞進行電流刺激的
實驗中，我們利用 5 mV, 十五分鐘間歇性刺激的參數來評估此強度是否對神經軸突的生長速度與長
度、神經幹細胞成熟分化上產生影響，並藉由及時定量聚合酶連鎖反應系統與螢光免疫染色來進行評
估。 
 
關鍵字：導電材料、奈米碳管繩、神經幹細胞、微電流刺激 
 
 4 
Background 
Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) were discovered by Iijima in 1991 [1]. They are essentially one-dimensional 
tubes, arranged as one or more rolled sheets of carbon atoms in a honeycomb-lattice-like structure. They 
possess a very broad range of electronic, thermal, and structural properties. The highly symmetric 
beam-and-truss structure formed by the covalently bound carbon atoms gives high stability and strength, 
while retaining flexibility [2]. However, the fourth valence electron is shared and mobile, making nanotubes 
aromatic and allowing them to conduct electricity. There are several approaches to purifying carbon nanotubes 
[3, 4]. Refluxing CNTs in an oxidizing acid such as nitric acid is one of the most popular methods of 
purification. This process oxidizes and removes the metal catalysts and carboneous deposits from the inside 
and outside of the tube. In addition, acids can attack the more reactive ends of the CNTs opening the tube ends 
and creating carboxylic acid groups. These carboxylic acid groups can be further functionalized allowing 
tuning of the surface chemistry of the nanotube. In their simplest form, these nanotubes consist of one rolled 
sheet: a single atomic tube of approximately 0.4 nm in diameter and up to approximately 100 nm in length. In 
this form, they are known as single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWNT). More usually, the tubes contain a 
number of concentric cylinders of carbon atoms, with overall diameters of up to 100 nm and lengths up to 
several hundreds of microns. These are known as multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWNT). In recent years 
carbon nanotubes have found a place in a variety of fields including electronics and nanocomposites as well as 
in biomedical research due to their remarkable electrical and mechanical properties and chemical stability [5]. 
Carbon nanotubes appear well suited as a biomaterial and may become a useful tool for tissue engineering [6]. 
Carbon nanotubes have the capacity to be used in cellular imaging, chemical and biological sensing, the 
capability of creating nanosized sensors may provide key information regarding tissue microenvironments 
thus yielding new insight into the cell–matrix interface. Demonstrations of drug and DNA intercellular 
delivery using carbon nanotubes show promise for CNTs to be used as alternatives to viruses for transfection. 
Carbon nanotubes may also serve as an important component to imparting novel properties to the biomatrix 
for directing cell growth. Collectively, the use of carbon nanotubes in combination with other biomaterials is 
novel and of great potential to achieve the goals of tissue engineering. 
 
Specific Aims 
In this project, we would like to know if neurons grown on tissue cultured dish or on CNTs coated 
substrate exhibit any difference in general electrophysiological characteristics. It is interesting to examine that 
if electrode posited CNT coatings are permissive for neuronal growth and function, are stable under 
physiological conditions, and are well suited for recording neural activity. 
The efficacy of CNT-coated electrodes for recording and stimulation of surface structures is essential for 
both basic research and clinical applications such as neural prosthetics, because large areas of primate sensory 
and motor representations reside on the cortical surface. Electrical stimulation of the nervous system has been 
used to ameliorate conditions such as epilepsy, Parkinson disease, depression, and chronic pain. The efficacy 
of any of these interventions is ultimately determined by the quality of the neuron–electrode interface. 
Creating a universal interface with selectivity, sensitivity, good charge transfer characteristics and long-term 
chemical and recording stability remains a formidable challenge. 
 
 
 6 
[10] Loeb, G. E., Peck, R. A. & Martyniuk, J. Toward the ultimate metal microelectrode. J. Neurosci. 
Methods 63, 175–183 (1995). 
 
 
 8 
Figure 5.        Figure 6.          Figure 7.             Figure 8. 
Table 1. EDS analysis of spectrum 1. 
 
 
 
WST-1 (Figure 9.) and LDH (Figure 10.) assays have been conducted via transwell setup to assess carbon 
nanotube rope cytotoxicity. Little to none cytotoxicity were observed for up to seven days. Non differentiated 
PC12 cells on carbon nanotube rope also can be visualized via fluorescent microscopy (Figure 11.).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Figure 9.                        Figure 10.                Figure 11. 
  
CONCLUSION  
 
Single walled carbon nanotubes synthesized via CVD method were successfully winded into a rope like 
structure. Carbon nanotube ropes shows little to none cytotoxicity. Neural-like cells were observed to sustain 
on carbon nanotube ropes three days after seeding. Electrical stimulation effect is now under investigation. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
The authors acknowledge the funding support of NSC 98-2218-E-007-009-MY2 
 
REFERENCES 
 
1. Ya-Li Li, Ian A. Kinloch, Alan H. Windle, SCIENCE, 304 , 276-278, 2004. 
2. Sergei M. Bachilo, Michael S. Strano, Carter Kittrell, Robert H. Hauge, Richard E. Smalley, R. Bruce 
Weisman, SCIENCE, 298, 2361-2366, 2002,  
 
 
 
 
 
Element C K O K Si K S K Fe L Totals 
Weight% 51.5118 2.474766 1.787331 0.870751 43.35423 100 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
100 年 7 月 31 日 
 
報告人姓
名 
王子威 服務機構 清大材料系 
本會核定
補助文號 
NSC 98-2218-E-007-009-MY2 
會議時間   
2011.6.26~2011.7.1 
會議地點 新加坡 
會議名稱 
(中文)  2011材料與先進技術國際研討會 
（英文）International Conference on Materials for 
Advanced Technologies  (ICMAT2011) 
發表論文
題目 
 (中文)  基質順應性對間葉幹細胞在仿生材料上分
化的影響 
（英文）Matrix Compliance of Three Dimensional 
Hyaluronic Acid Based Scaffold on Mesenchymal 
Stem Cell Differentiation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
二、 發表論文 
Matrix Compliance of Three Dimensional Hyaluronic Acid Based 
Scaffold on Mesenchymal Stem Cell Differentiation 
Tzu-Wei Wang1, Jih-Her Goh1, Hsi-Chin Wu2 
Email: twwang@mx.nthu.edu.tw 
1. Department of Materials Sciences and Engineering, National Tsing Hua University, 
Taiwan 
2. Department of Materials Engineering, Tatung University, Taiwan 
 
 
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) exhibit multiple traits of a stem cell population. 
They can be greatly expanded in vitro and induced to differentiate into multiple cell 
types. Lineage specification of naive stem cells induced by physical stimuli such as 
the influence of microenvironment (viz., stiffness, elasticity, hydrophobicity, 
roughness, surface topography, etc) on stem cell specification is becoming attractive 
in these few years. In this research study, we are interested in identifying specific cues 
in the microenvironments by changing the above parameters of our developed 
hyaluronic acid-based 3D scaffold to see if MSCs could be favored to direct toward 
neuronal lineages under these well-defined microenvironments. The objective of this 
study is to investigate the neuronal differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells in 
response to different properties of three dimensional hyaluronic acid－collagen 
scaffold. Through the modification of stiffness of 3D substrate, chemical functional 
groups and biological soluble factors/proteins, we tempt to manipulate MSCs 
differentiation towards neuronal lineage. This study may provide information for stem 
cell studies and future applications in neuroregeneration. 
 
Keywords : mesenchymal stem cell, 3D scaffold, microenvironment, neuroinduction 
 
 
 
 
Hyaluronic Acid Based Scaffold on Mesenchymal Stem Cell 
Differentiation. 會中，有許多學者對於論文細節提出問題並進行
討論，且提供許多想法與意見讓個人獲益頗多，對於研究領域更是激
發許多創新的想法。 
二、與會心得 
藉由參與這次2011先進材料與技術國際研討會，讓我了解先進奈米材
料技術與生醫奈米領域發展的近況，也讓我有機會在國際性會議中，
與不同國家、不同領域的專家學者討論彼此 
的研究成果並進一步交換意見。這些寶貴的經驗，對於自己爾後的研
究有相當的助益。 
這次研討會舉辦場地在當地的Suntec國際級會議中心，從整個會場的
佈置與設計、給參加者的相關資料、未來世界各地即將舉辦的相關研
討會及交通、飲食各方面的考量，乃至於人力上的動員及組織編制各
方面，都有花過一番心思，甚值參考。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
四、建議 
此次出國參加2011先進材料與技術國際研討會對於自己的研究視野
拓展了不少，也增進自己的研究熱忱。希望未來能多參與國際性研討
會，與國外學者產生交流的機會，相信這對於國內研究水準的提昇及
 四、致謝 
 本次承蒙國科會經費補助，使得個人能參與 International 
Conference on Materials for Advanced Technologies  
(ICMAT2011) 國際研討會，特此致獻謝忱。 
 
 
 
98 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：王子威 計畫編號：98-2218-E-007-009-MY2 
計畫名稱：功能性奈米碳管的研發與在生物醫學工程上的應用 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 1 1 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
