 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫期末報告 
 
內波驅動力對海洋環境影響的評估 
 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2218-E-132-001 
執行期限：95年 12月 01日至 96年 07月 31日 
計劃主持人：陳震遠  (永達技術學院資訊管理系) 
 
1. Background 
 
Internal waves are motions of an interface 
of different densities in the interior of the 
ocean. They exist in a stratified water body, 
in which the difference in water density is 
mostly caused by a difference in water 
temperature or salinity. The simplest density 
structure in the ocean is the approximation 
of a two-layer model. The interface between 
layers of different densities is called 
pycnoline. When the density difference is 
due to temperature it is called thermocline, 
and as halocline due to salinity. Like its 
counterpart on the ocean surface at the 
interface of two media of different density, 
i.e., water and air, the internal waves are 
waves at the interface between two water 
layers of different densities. In both cases, 
the restoring force is due to the gravity, 
which is the reason why sometimes both are 
called gravity waves. These waves are 
generated when the interface is disturbed. In 
the case of surface waves, this disturbance 
can be caused by a stone thrown into the 
water or by wind blowing over the water 
surface. In the case of internal waves in the 
ocean, this disturbance is usually caused by 
tidal flow pushing the layered water body 
over shallow underwater obstacles, e. g., 
over sills or ridges (Maxworthy, 1979; 
Helfrich et al.; 1984; Lamb, 1994; Liu et al., 
1998). Internal waves in the ocean typically 
have wavelengths ranging from hundreds of 
meters to tens of kilometers and with 
periods from tens of minutes to tens of hours. 
Their amplitudes (peak to trough distance) 
could exceed 50 m in Andaman Sea, Sulu 
Sea, and South China Sea etc. Associated 
with internal waves are orbital motions of 
the water particles as depicted in Fig. 1 
(dashed lines). The radius of the circular 
motion of the water particles is largest at the 
pycnocline (or thermocline) and decreases 
downwards as well as upwards from this 
depth. To a first-order, the internal waves do 
not give rise to an apparent elevation of the 
sea surface as the familiar surface waves do, 
but they do give rise to a variable (horizontal) 
surface current. The current velocity at the 
sea surface varies in magnitude and 
direction giving rise to convergent and 
divergent flow regimes at the sea surface 
(Fig. 1). The variable surface current 
interacts with the surface waves and 
modulates the sea surface roughness 
(Hughes, 1978; Alpers, 1985). This 
interaction answers the question why 
oceanic internal waves become visible on 
radar images of the sea surface and, in some 
cases, also on images acquired in the visible 
ultraviolet or infrared wavelength band (e.g. 
Apel et al., 1975). Due to the hydrodynamic 
interaction of the variable surface current 
with the surface waves, the amplitude of the 
Bragg waves increases in convergent flow 
regions and decreases in divergent flow 
regions. As a consequence, the radar 
signatures of oceanic internal waves consist 
of alternating bright and dark bands on a 
uniform background. (Liu et al., 1998; Hsu 
et al., 2000) 
 
2. Observation 
 
For an internal wave propagating 
westward in the northern part of South 
China Sea, Yang et al. (2004) recorded a 
large oscillation height about 110m, and the 
thickness of the upper and lower fluid layer 
