attention in recent years. A complete sharing (CS) 
policy in which all users can be allowed without 
restriction to access a common resource is 
proposed in [1][2]. On the other hand, a 
complete partitioning (CP) divide available 
resource into separate sets with corresponding 
nominal capacity based on different QoS 
requirements, and each class of traffic is 
allocated a set of resources that can only be used 
by that class [2]. The concept of Virtual 
partitioning (VP) is first proposed by Mitra and 
Ziedins in [3]. The concept of VP is that each 
individual traffic class is allocated a nominal 
capacity according to expected offered load as 
well as required Qos. When overall traffic is 
light (heavy), VP behaves like unrestricted 
sharing (complete isolation). Therefore, VP 
manages to combine characteristics of CS and 
CP under different loads. VP with preemption 
for the scenarios with K classes of users in 
single-layer cellular networks are studied in [4].  
 In this work, we consider the performance 
of two-tier cellular networks for a multiple of 
classes of users with CAC-VP policy, where 
each class of users may have different bandwidth 
requirements, average call holding times, and 
mobility We also implement a guard channel 
scheme to further reduce forced termination 
probability. Besides, for comparison purposes, 
we also consider CAC-CS with guard channels 
in hierarchical cellular networks. Mobile users 
with slow mobility are assigned to the associated 
microcell, whereas users with fast mobility are 
assigned to the associated macrocell. If users 
with slow mobility cannot be admitted into the 
associated microcell, it can be overflowed into 
the associated macrocell. In microcells, each 
underloaded group of slow mobility user can 
preempt another overloaded group of slow 
mobility users if necessary, but only fast 
mobility users can preempt the users of the other 
group in macrocells. An analytical method is 
derived to calculate the performance metrics of 
interest, e.g., new call blocking probability, and 
forced termination probability. 
 
三、結果與討論 
 
3.1. System model 
We consider a two-tier hierarchical cellular 
network which consists of many microcells in 
the lower layer and many macrocells in the 
upper layer, where each macrocell overlays ovN  
microcells. For simplicity, we consider only 
homogeneous systems, i.e., all cells at the same 
layer are statistically identical. A widely known 
Manhattan model is employed in this system 
considered [4]. The lower layer consists of 
( )mCN  microcells and the upper layer consists 
of 
( )m
ov
CN
N  macrocells. The size of each 
microcell is ( )mCS m with ( )mCN  base station 
(BS) located at every street corner and the street 
width is considered as negligible. Mobile users 
(MS) with slow mobility are assigned to 
microcells, and fast ones are assigned to 
macrocells. The MS in microcells can be 
allowed to overflow to macrocells if necessary. 
MS can move in one of four directions at a 
constant speed. The trajectory of MS is restricted 
on the street. The MS at every junction turn to 
right or left with a given probability of tp , and 
with the probability of 1 2 tp− to go straight. 
It is assumed that there are ( )MC ( ( )mC ) 
channels in each macrocell (microcell). We 
assume there are two groups of users in this 
system, each group consists of / 2N  classes, 
and the nominal capacity for group 1 and group 
2 is 1C  and 2C , respectively. A class-   k user 
requires kb  channel(s) for transmission. Groups 
1 includes the traffic classes from 1 to / 2N  
and group 2 includes the traffic classes from 
/ 2 1N +  to N . 
To simplify our analysis, hard handoff 
scheme is adopted, i.e., there are no overlapping 
regions with corresponding neighbor cells. As is 
well known, maintaining call continuity is more 
important than admitting a new call. To assign 
higher priority to handoff calls over new calls, a 
guard channel scheme is employed in the 
system. 
 
3.1.1 Traffic model 
New call arrivals for class-   k slow (fast) 
users at a microcell (macrocell) are assumed to 
follow a Poisson process with average arrival 
rate ( ) ( )( )s fnk nkλ λ , 1,..., .k N=  Handoff call 
