Growth of intermittent disturbances in pulsating pipe flows 
J. J. Miau, R. H. Huang, H. Liu, H. S. Lo and J. Y. Dai 
Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan  
 
 
Abstract 
This paper presents the results obtained concerning the 
growth of intermittent disturbances in the developing 
region of a pulsating pipe flow.  Measurements made with 
a hot-wire probe in the developing region show that the 
initial disturbances appear like a wave packet in every 
pulsating cycle.By Hilbert-Huang transformation of the 
disturbance components extracted from repeated pulsating 
cycles, the characteristic frequency of the disturbances can 
be resolved with an ensemble-averaging process. 
Measurements using the self-made MEMS thermal film 
sensors flushed with the wall surface, evenly distributed in 
the azimuth direction, indicate that the initial disturbances 
are two-dimensional basically. A discussion is then carried 
out on the mechanism of the flow instability, which is 
attributed to the shear action of the unsteady mean flow.  
 
Keywords: flow instability, pulsating pipe flow, Hilbert-
Hung transformation, phase-averaging, MEMS thermal-
film sensors 
 
1. Introduction 
Concerning the laminar-turbulent transition phenomenon in 
a steady pipe flow, the experimental observations can be 
traced to the well-known dye visualization experiment of 
Osborne Reynolds [1] in the nineteenth century. In the 
Reynolds’ experiment, a critical Reynolds number was 
found, about 2000, below which no disturbance introduced 
could sustain in the flow.  Since it can be shown by the 
theoretical analysis that a Poiseuille flow is stable to any 
linear, two-dimensional disturbance [2], the transition 
phenomenon has been explained due to the development of 
nonlinear disturbances. According to Wygnanski and 
Champange [3], the intermittent flow structure associated 
with the laminar-turbulent transition phenomenon occurred 
at Reynolds numbers in the order of 2000, analogous to that 
seen in the Reynolds’ experiment, was called the puff flow. 
This phenomenon was seen subject to an upstream condition 
with disturbances of high turbulence intensity introduced in 
the core region of the pipe flow. Being different from the 
puff flow, the slug flow [3] seen in the laminar-turbulent 
transition process at considerably higher Reynolds numbers 
was attributed to the development of flow instability in the 
boundary layer in the developing region.  Durst and Ü nsal 
[4] were able to reproduce the puff and slug flow structures 
in a pipe flow, respectively, subject to different inlet 
conditions with the turbulence intensity levels ranging 
from as low as 0.2% to much higher by introducing an 
obstacle upstream.   
 
Concerning the laminar-turbulent transition 
phenomenon in unsteady pipe flows, in the literature there 
have been studies on the oscillatory pipe flows and the 
pulsating pipe flows.  The former are referred to the ones 
whose time-mean velocities are zero, whereas the latter are 
referred to those of which time-mean velocities are not zero. 
For the latter, it is worthwhile to note the works of 
Womersley [5] and Uchida [6], who obtained the asymptotic 
solutions of pulsating pipe flows based on the assumption 
that the pipe flow be fully developed with given pressure 
gradient. Both studies found an important dimensionless 
parameter, named Womersley number here, α.  If α << 1, the 
instantaneous velocity profile of pulsating pipe flow would 
be the same as that of the steady Poiseuille flow; however, if 
α > 10, there exists a 90o phase shift between the pressure 
gradient and the cross-sectional velocity profile.  The 
distribution of phase shift along radial direction is also 
affected by α. Shemer et al. [7] and He and Jackson [8] 
performed the pipe-flow experiments and confirmed the 
results reported by Womersley [5] and Uchida [6].  
On the phenomenon of laminar-turbulent transition in 
pulsating pipe flows, most of the experimental works found 
in the literature were focused in the fully-developed region. 
For such a flow, the streamwise development of the mean 
flow can be ignored.  Nevertheless, Iguchi et al. [9] placed 
the emphasis on the on-set of turbulent slugs in the 
developing region and their growth downstream.  Based on 
the hot-wire measurements made in the developing region, 
Iguchi et al. [9] pointed out that there was a close analogy 
between the growth of unstable disturbances in the 
developing region of a pulsating pipe flow and that in a 
pulsatile boundary layer on a flat plate [10, 11].  Recently, 
Lo and Miau [12], Miau et al. [13] and Liu et al. [14] 
conducted a series of experimental studies on the unstable 
disturbances in the developing region of pulsating pipe flows.  
As found, while the intermittent disturbances look similar to 
those seen in a periodically varying boundary-layer flow 
over a flat plate [10, 11], the characteristic frequency of the 
disturbances obviously deviates from that of a Tollmien-
Schlichting wave.   
In the present paper, the results obtained in the 
previous studies [12-14] concerning the characteristics of 
the disturbances in the developing region are reviewed.  
The major findings include the characteristic frequency of 
the intermittent disturbances resolved by the Hilbert-Huang 
transformation method [15], and the two-dimensional 
characteristics of the initial disturbances unveiled by the 
measurements using multiple MEMS (Micro Electrical and 
Mechanical System) thermal film sensors flushed with the 
wall surface, in the azimuth direction.  Subsequently, a 
discussion is carried out concerning the development of the 
initial disturbances with the unsteady mean flow. 
 
2. The pipe flow system 
Experiments were conducted in an open-circuit pipe 
flow system, featured with a straight pipe section of 85 D 
in length, where D= 50 mm denotes the diameter of the 
pipe. The working fluid was air, driven by a blower 
In addition, a MEMS sensor, called sensor 1, was situated 
50 mm (2 D) upstream, whose signals were obtained 
simultaneously for reference.  Each MEMS sensor was 
made of 0.1 μm thick platinum deposited on a polyimide 
layer using a MEMS fabrication process.  The total thickness 
of the MEMS sensor was approximately 20 μm. Therefore, 
compared to D, this thickness is very small and considered 
to cause little effects to the roughness of the wall surface.  
These MEMS sensors were self-made.  One may refer to 
Tu and Miau [16] for the details of the fabrication 
procedure.  
    Figure 6 performs a comparison of the disturbance 
signals obtained by the MEMS sensors 2 to 6, at x/D = 28, 
for (ReU, Rem, α) =(8,19×10
3
, 3.13×10
3
, 9.2).   In Fig. 6a, a 
segment of the raw signal trace obtained by MEMS sensor 
2 spanning one pulsating cycle is given for reference, 
which indicates that the unstable disturbance, in a form of 
wave packet, is occurred in the valley region.  As seen, the 
intensity of the fluctuations is very small, compared to the 
wave form of the pulsating flow. In order to examine such 
a disturbance event, a method called Empirical Mode 
Decomposition (EMD) [15] was employed, which was able 
to extract the disturbance from the raw signal successfully, 
based on our previous experiences [16-18].  According to 
Huang et al. [15], the EMD method is able to decompose 
an arbitrary continuous signal into a number of 
components, each of which is called an Intrinsic Mode 
function (IMF).  An IMF features free of dc value, 
therefore is ready for Hilbert transformation to reduce for a 
time-frequency spectrum.  By this method, the information 
of frequency at a time instant, called the instantaneous 
frequency, can be obtained.  This method has been 
successfully applied by Hu et al. [16], Miau et al. [17] and 
Lin et al. [18] for studying the instantaneous behaviors of 
vortex shedding processes.   In Fig. 6b, the disturbance 
components extracted from the signal traces of MEMS 
sensors 2-6, by the EMD method, are compared.    
Accompanied with this plot, a table included in the figure 
provides the correlation coefficients corresponding to the 
disturbance components embedded in the signal traces of 
MEMS sensors 3-6 relative to that in the signal trace of 
MEMS sensor 2. As found, for each of the MEMS sensors 
3-6, the maximum correlation takes place with a time lag 
no more than 0.0035π, amounting to less than one-tenth of 
a period of disturbance fluctuations, about 0.4π. This time 
period can be estimated as two times the phase lag 
corresponding to the minimum correlation shown in the 
table.  Therefore, one can say that the initial disturbances 
are two-dimensional basically. The phase variations in the 
azimuth direction seen at the locations of MEMS sensors 
2-6 can be regarded as small perturbations to a two-
dimensional flow structure.     
    To find the characteristic frequency associated with the 
fluctuations in the intermittent disturbances, Lo and Miau 
[12], Miau et al. [13] and Liu et al. [14] employed the 
method of HHT (Hilbert-Huang Transformation) [15].  
This data analysis technique can be explained with an 
example given in Fig. 7. In Fig. 7a, a segment of the hot-
wire velocity trace obtained at x/D=28, r/R=0.76, for (ReU, 
Rem, α) = (1.07×10
4
, 5.26×10
3
, 9.2), spanning one 
pulsating period is given for reference, in which the 
disturbances appears as a wave packet in the valley region.  
Subsequently, Fig. 7b presents a time-frequency plot of the 
disturbance component, which is the result of an ensemble-
averaging process over 30 pulsating cycles of the Hilbert 
spectra corresponding to the IMFs of the disturbance 
component.  As seen in Fig. 7b, the characteristic 
frequency of the disturbance is about 15 Hz over the time 
period (phase region) when the disturbance is 
pronouncedly present.  Moreover, Fig. 7c shows the 95% 
confidence interval of uncertainty obtained along with the 
ensemble-averaging process. In the phase region where the 
disturbances are pronounced present, the uncertainty 
interval is about 1 Hz.  This provides an assessment on the 
accuracy of the ensemble-averaged frequency resolved 
from this data reduction procedure.   On the other hand, it 
should be noted that away from the phase region, the 
uncertainty results are not physically meaningful.     
 
 4. Discussion  
The flow instability involved in the growth of the initial 
disturbance in the developing region of the present 
pulsating pipe flow is discussed here.  Miau et al. [13] 
made a comparison between the frequency of the initial 
disturbance developed in the present pulsating pipe flow, 
reduced by the HHT method mentioned above, and that of 
the Tollmien-Schlitching wave by assuming that the 
instantaneous velocity at the center of the pipe be the free 
stream velocity of a laminar boundary over a flat plate.  
However, this comparison showed a significant difference, 
not like Miller and Fejer [10] and Obremski and Fejer [11] 
reported for a pulsatile boundary layer on a flat plate.  This 
can be explained due to the fact that the unsteady velocity 
profile in a pulsating pipe flow, an internal flow confined 
by the pipe wall, be quite different from that of a pulsatile 
boundary layer on a flow plate [10, 11], which is an 
external flow.    
Moreover, in the previous studies [12-14] it has been 
noted that the timing (phase) corresponding to the 
appearance of the unstable disturbance in a pulsating cycle 
varies with the experimental conditions.  For instance, in 
Fig. 8a a segment of the velocity signal obtained by a hot-
wire probe at x/D=31, r/R=0.64, for (ReU, Rem, α) = 
(8.19×10
3
, 3.13×10
3
, 12) shows that the unstable 
disturbance appears during the acceleration phase of the 
pipe flow. This is obviously different from that seen in Fig. 
7a.  Also noted in Figs. 8b is that the characteristic 
frequency of the disturbances is not necessary a constant 
value, somewhat different from the results seen in Fig. 7b.  
In Fig. 8c, the 95% confidence interval of uncertainty 
associated with the ensemble-averaged frequency seen in 
Fig. 8b is about 1 Hz only. This uncertainty interval is 
deemed relatively smaller than the variations of the 
characteristic frequency of the disturbance seen in Fig. 8b. 
Liu et al. [14] explained the development of the 
unstable disturbances due to the shear action of the 
unsteady mean flow from the viewpoint of the Kelvin-
Helmholtz instability.  According to Tollmien [20], the 
most unstable region lies in the vicinity of the inflexion 
point of a mean flow.   Liu et al. [14] examined the 
experimental fluid dynamics,” Journal of Aeronautics, 
Astronautics and Aviation, vol. A41, no. 4, pp. 229-236, 
2009.  
[17] Hu, C. C., Miau. J. J. and Chou, J. H., “Instantaneous 
Vortex Shedding Behaviour in Periodically-Varying 
Flow,” Pro. R. Soc. Lond., vol. A458, pp. 911-932, 2002.  
[18] Miau, J. J., Tu, J. K. and Hu, C. C., “Hilbert and 
Wavelet Analyses of Unsteady, Three-Dimensional 
Characteristics of Vortex Shedding from a Circular 
Cylinder,” Journal of the Chinese Society of Mechanical 
Engineers, vol. 28, no. 1, pp. 99-109, 2007.  
[19] Lin, Y. L., Miau, J. J., Tu, J. K., and Tsai, H. W., 
“Non-stationary, three-dimensional aspects of flow around 
a circular cylinder at critical Reynolds numbers,” AIAA 
Journal, vol. 49, no. 9, pp. 1857-1870, 2011.   
 [20] Tollmien, W., “The production of turbulence,” NACA 
Technical Memo. 609, 1931. 
 
Fig. 1.  A schematic drawing of the pipe flow system. 
 
ReU
Rem
 
Fig. 2 The experimental parameter range achieved in the 
present pipe flow facility. 
 
Fig. 3 The velocity traces obtained at (x/D, θ)= (25, 0) and 
r/R= 0, 0.8 and 0.98, for (ReU, Rem, α) = (1.07×10
4
, 
5.26×10
3
, 9.2).  
 
                                              (a) 
 
                                               (b)  
                                   
(c) 
 
Fig. 4.  Comparison of the velocity traces obtained at x/D= 
27, 28 and 29, for (ReU, Rem, α) = (1.07×10
4
, 5.26×10
3
, 
9.2). 
 
 
 
Fig. 5. Arrangement for multiple MEMS sensors on the 
wall surface in the azimuth direction. 
 1 
出席第五屆高效能科學計算國際會議報告 
苗君易  101,03,23 
 
一、 行程簡述 
筆者於三月四日上午六點三十分搭華航 CI 300 班機由高雄前往桃園，在桃園
機場與莊哲男教授會合，然後搭八點二十五分班機 CI 791 前往目的地越南河內
機場。在機場入境大廳，我們見到了會議接待人員，並由他們安排車子送我們到
住宿飯店 Hanoi Hotel Horison，很感謝會方這項親切的服務，否則自己就必須想
辦法找交通工具了。Hanoi Hotel Horison 的客房及各項設施均相當現代化且乾
淨，服務人員態度親切，筆者給予很好的評價。 
第五屆高效能科學計算國際會議(The 5th International Conference on High 
Performance Scientific Computing)於三月五日至九日在河內科技大學 (Hanoi 
University of Science and Technology)舉行，主辦單位共有四個 : Institute of 
Mathematics, Vietnam Academy of Science and Technology、  Interdisciplinary 
Center For Scientific Computing (IWR), University of Heidelberg、Vietnam Institute 
for Advanced Study in Mathematics, Ministry of Education and Training 與 Faculty of 
Computer Science and Engineering, Ho Chi Minh City University of Technology。根
據 Professor Hans Georg Bock (Chair, IWR, University of Heidelberg)在開幕式致詞
所述，這次會議所發表論文達 292 篇，居歷屆之冠，且呈大幅成長。換言之，這
次會議吸引了不少第一次與會者，筆者就是其中的一位；筆者有幸參與這個會
議，乃因莊哲男教授推薦及 Professor Richard Longman (Columbia University, USA)
邀約而成行。會議議程每日上午均安排一至兩場大會演講，接著為平行場次論文
發表，每篇論文的發表時間為三十分鐘，整個會期計五日，讓與會人員能有充分
的時間交流心得。 
會後，筆者與莊哲男教授自費參加大會所安排的兩日一夜下龍灣旅遊活動，
利用這個機會認識越南的風情文化，亦是此行另一項收獲。於三月十二日上午我
們搭華航 CI 792 班機回桃園機場，再搭高鐵回台南。 
 
二、 與會心得 
此次會議的主題為 Modeling, Simulation and Optimization of Complex 
Processes，特別強調運用數學方法模擬各種物理問題，因此大部分論文以實際應
用為導向，與工業、民生問題息息相關。 
筆者聆聽大會演講得到相當多的收獲，其心得報告如下。 
第一場大會演講 Professor I. Daubechies (Princeton University, USA)的講題
是”Sparsity in Data Analysis and Computation”， Professor I. Daubechies 在小波轉
換 (Wavelet transform) 研究領域相當知名，且現任 International Union of 
Mathematics 理事長。她的演講強調小波轉換在影像壓縮具有很高的應用價值，
主要原因是影像數據具有空間疏密性的本質，而辨別各局部區域的特徵正是小波
 3 
三個，成一系列依序發表文章，而這些文章均由 Professor Richard Longman 負責
邀約。因此，會中筆者有較多的時間與 Professor Richard Longman、莊哲男教授
等人交換研究心得，特別是與莊哲男教授、Professor M. Q. Phan (Dartmouth 
College, USA)討論高解析度氣象預報的相關問題，其資料對風能管理具關鍵的重
要性。筆者向他們說明如果單純使用計算流體力學方法模擬，不但費時且其結果
也不理想，因此進一步討論如何運用其他的數學工具來達成目的。 
 
三、 結語與誌謝  
    參加這個會議對拓展筆者個人的研究視野有很大的幫助，尤其是筆者所進行
的研究工作常面臨實驗參數最佳化的問題，在這次國際會議中見到多位控制最佳
化領域的專家，能向他們請益實獲益匪淺。 
筆者特別感謝國科會計畫經費支持出席此次會議，使得順利圓滿地參與此次
國際學術交流活動。 
     
 
 
 
照片一:筆者與莊哲男教授、Professor M. Q. Phan 在會場大樓 Ta Quang Buu 
Library (Hanoi University of Science and Technology)前留影。 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：苗君易 計畫編號：98-2221-E-006-138-MY3 
計畫名稱：非定常管流層-紊流轉變現象之瞬時三維性研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
