 2
concentration) near the wafer edge, and 
hence improves the contact stress uniformity.  
Meanwhile, it also increases the slurry flow 
resistance and therefore reduces the slurry 
flowrate.  The reduction in slurry flowrate, 
however, is relatively insignificant.  
Through systematic parameter studies, we 
deduce certain guidelines for choosing the 
optimal retaining ring width and back 
pressure that minimize the contact stress 
non-uniformity on the wafer surface. 
  
Keywords: chemical mechanical planariza- 
tion, retaining ring, contact stress uniformity, 
contact mechanics, fluid film lubrication 
 
1. Introduction 
Chemical mechanical planarization 
(CMP) is the enabling technology for 
eliminating topographic variations and 
achieving near-perfect planarity of inter- 
connection and metal layers in ultralarge- 
scale integrated (ULSI) semiconductor 
devices (Singh and Bajaj, 2002).  During 
the CMP process, a rotating wafer is pressed 
facedown against a rotating pad, while a 
slurry containing chemicals and abrasive 
particles is dragged into the wafer–pad 
interface (hereafter referred to as the WP 
interface).  To ensure a stable and high 
performance of CMP, especially for wafers 
of larger diameters (say 300 mm and up), it is 
important to optimize the material properties 
of the slurry, pad, and other consumables 
(Singh et al., 2002; Moinpour et al., 2002).  
Meanwhile, the process operation parameters 
such as the wafer-back pressure (which 
sometimes is called the “down force” in the 
literature), the angular speeds of the wafer 
and pad, the slurry flowrate and its injection 
site on the pad, also need to be carefully 
tuned or automatically controlled (Rogers et 
al., 1998; Edgar et al., 2000; Kao et al., 
2003).  
An important performance index of 
CMP is the spatial uniformity of the material 
removal rate (MRR) on the wafer surface.  
In addition to the consumable properties and 
operation parameters mentioned above, the 
MRR uniformity also is affected by various 
other factors, such as wafer warp (Lu et al., 
2000), polishing head design, and, most 
directly, by the contact stress uniformity on 
the WP interface.  Why the contact stress 
uniformity directly affects the MRR 
uniformity can be explained on the basis of 
Preston’s equation.  Originally proposed for 
glass polishing (Preston, 1927), Preston’s 
equation linearly relates the overall (i.e., 
spatially averaged) MRR to the product of 
the (uniform) wafer-back pressure bwp  and 
the relative sliding velocity V  between the 
pad and wafer surfaces: MRR p bwC p V= ⋅ ⋅ , 
where pC  is a constant absorbing the 
implicit dependence of MRR upon the pad, 
wafer, and slurry properties and other 
process parameters.  In a previous work on 
slurry impurity transport in CMP, Wang and 
Yang (2009) also attempted to apply 
Preston’s equation locally, i.e., to calculate 
the local MRR from the product of the local 
normal contact stress and the relative sliding 
velocity.  It was shown that, with properly 
tuned parameter values, the calculated 
overall MRR agreed well with existing 
experimental data.  Of course, there also are 
situations in which Preston’s equation does 
not correlate well with the experimental data.  
To resolve such discrepancies, several 
experimental and modeling works were then 
devoted to modifying Preston’s equation 
 4
surface (defined to be the mean asperity 
surface; see Figure 1) is calculated from a 
classical formula of two-dimensional (2-D) 
contact mechanics for a half-space, while the 
asperity height decrease is assumed to be 
proportional to the local compressive contact 
stress.  The pressure distribution in the 
slurry is calculated using the modified 
Reynolds equation of fluid film lubrication 
theory (Hamrock et al., 2004; Patir and 
Cheng, 1978).  The model of Tichy et al. 
(1999) is substantially modified here, 
however, by taking into account the 
existence of a wafer retaining ring.  In 
general, the wafer and the retaining ring 
would have different downward 
displacements, which are calculated here 
using force balance and geometrical 
compatibility.  [Note that, in a previous 
work Wang and Yang (2007) studied the 
effects of pad grooves on CMP, assuming 
coplanar wafer and retaining ring.  By 
contrast, here we allow the wafer and 
retaining ring to have different displace- 
ments, without considering the presence of 
pad grooves, and so the present work 
complements that of Wang and Yang 
(2007).]  For specified wafer-back pressure, 
retaining ring width and its back pressure, 
the aforementioned models yield a 
well-posed mathematical problem for 
calculating the downward displacements of 
the wafer and the retaining ring, and the 
contact stress and fluid pressure distributions 
on the WP interface.  The mathematical 
problem then can be solved by an iterative 
numerical procedure (explained in the next 
section).   
Our numerical results for a particular 
case study with realistic parameters indicate 
that, as expected, the presence of a retaining 
ring generally reduces the edge effect.  
Meanwhile, as the retaining ring’s existence 
also increases the slurry flow resistance, the 
slurry flowrate is decreased accordingly.  
However, in all the cases studied here, the 
reduction in slurry flowrate does not exceed 
2% (of the flowrate for the case neglecting 
the retaining ring’s presence), and therefore 
is rather insignificant.  In other words, the 
existence of the retaining ring decreases the 
edge effect without obstructing the slurry 
flow significantly, which is a welcome result.  
Moreover, in our quantitative evaluation of 
the contact stress uniformity, an edge portion 
of the wafer surface is excluded, because that 
portion (typically 3–5% of the wafer radius) 
usually is sacrificed in a realistic CMP 
process.  When such a quantitative index is 
used, it is also found that the best result is not 
obtained when the wafer and the retaining 
ring are coplanar, as might have been 
expected intuitively.  Instead, the most 
uniform contact stress distribution is 
achieved by choosing a suitably wide 
retaining ring width, and then a 
corresponding retaining ring back pressure 
that renders the wafer edge nearly stress-free.  
Such findings would be useful for choosing 
the optimal retaining ring width and back 
pressure in practice, and thus are valuable. 
 
Figure 1. Schematic of the model system for 
CMP (not to scale).    
 6
where E  and ν  are the elastic modulus 
and Poisson’s ratio of the pad.  Of course, 
the pad has a finite thickness in reality, and 
so using the above result for a 2-D half-space 
(of infinite extent) may appear to be 
questionable.  However, as shown in one of 
our previous works (Yang et al., 2008), with 
properly increased pad stiffness, the present 
simplified model would produce numerical 
results that agree well with the numerical 
results for axisymmetric pads of finite 
thickness obtained by use of a commercial 
software for finite element analysis.   
To simplify matters, the tangential 
interfacial stress component q is assumed to 
be proportional to the normal component sp : 
( ) ( )sq x f p x= ⋅ , where f  is a (constant) 
friction factor.  Furthermore, following 
Tichy et al. (1999), the Winkler’s “mattress” 
model is used to calculate the thickness 
variation of the asperity layer: 
0 ( ) ( ) /f sh h x p x K− = , (3)
where K is the effective stiffness constant of 
the asperity layer (Johnson, 1985, Section 
4.3).  Substituting then Eqs. (2) and (3) into 
Eq. (1) yields an integral equation which the 
normal contact stress distribution ( )sp x  
must satisfy: 
2
0
1
2(1 )   
( ) ln ( ) ln
(1 2 )(1 ) ( ) ( ) /
,  [ , ],
,  [ , ], [ , ].  
a w a w
s s
a w a w
x
s s
a w
E
p s x s ds p s s ds
f p s ds p x K
E
x a a
x a w a a a w
υ
π
υ υ
δ
δ
+ +
− − − −
− −
−−
⎧ ⎫⎪ ⎪× − −⎨ ⎬⎪ ⎪⎩ ⎭
− ++ +
∈ −⎧= ⎨ ∈ − − − +⎩
∫ ∫
∫
(4)
Note that, given the displacements 0,1δ  of 
the wafer and the retaining ring, the contact 
stress distribution ( )sp x  can be solved from 
Eq. (4).   
However, the downward displacements 
0,1δ  usually are unknown a priori, and must 
be determined by invoking force balance.  
To write down the force balances for the 
wafer and the retaining ring, note that they 
both are subjected to the contact stress ( )sp x , 
the fluid (slurry) pressure ( )fp x , and their 
individual back pressures bwp  and brp .  
Also, in real CMP processes, the retaining 
ring just sits around the wafer to keep it in 
place, so that the contact force between them 
usually is negligible.  For this reason, we 
shall require each of the wafer and the 
retaining ring to satisfy an independent force 
balance.  Specifically, the normal force 
balance for the wafer is  
{ }2 ( ) ( )abw s f
a
a p p x p x dx
−
⋅ = +∫ , (5)
and that for the retaining ring is  
{ }
{ }
2 ( ) ( )
           ( ) ( )
a
br s f
a w
a w
s f
a
w p p x p x dx
p x p x dx
−
− −
+
⋅ = +
+ +
∫
∫
. (6)
Recall that the retaining ring is represented 
by the two side slabs in Fig. 1, and so Eq. (6) 
includes the forces on both of them.  Note 
also that we have introduced an additional 
unknown―namely the fluid pressure 
( )fp x ―in Eqs. (5) and (6), and hence need 
one more equation to complete the model.   
To complete the formulation, the fluid 
pressure distribution is calculated by solving 
the modified Reynolds’ equation of fluid film 
lubrication theory (Hamrock, 2004): 
3( ) 6f ff
dp dhd h V
dx dx dx
ψ μ= , (7)
where μ is the viscosity of the slurry, and  
( ) 1.0 0.9exp( 0.56 / )f fh h sψ = − − , (8)
( s  being the root-mean-square average 
 8
Table 1. Mechanical properties of the pad 
(Tichy et al., 1999). 
Elastic modulus 400E =  MPa* 
Friction coefficient 0.3f =  
Poison’s ratio 0.4ν =  
Asperity stiffness 325 N/mmK =  
Uncompressed 
asperity height 0
60 mh μ=  
RMS surface 
roughness height 
6 ms μ=  
* The reason for choosing such an unusually high 
value for the pad’s elastic modulus is explained in the 
text. 
 
relative sliding speed between the wafer and 
pad surfaces is 0.4V =  m/sec (corresponding 
to the case that the pad and wafer are rotating 
at the same angular speed of 20 rpm, with a 
distance of 20 cm between their centers).  
Also, the viscosity of the slurry is taken to be 
0.0025μ =  Pa-sec, and the mechanical and 
surface properties of the pad are listed in 
Table 1.  Basically, such values are taken to 
be the same as that used in the simulations of 
Tichy et al. (1999) and correspond to typical 
parameter values in practical CMP processes.  
(As the wafer and retaining ring are assumed 
to be rigid, their mechanical properties are 
immaterial in the present model.)  Recall, 
however, that as shown by Yang et al. (2008) 
for the present model to produce reasonably 
accurate predictions for the real situations, an 
artificially increased elastic modulus has to 
be used for the pad, which is taken to be 400 
MPa here (about 80 times higher than the 
practical value). With the parameter values 
specified above, we shall vary the width of 
the retaining ring (between 5 and 50 mm) 
and its back pressure (between 43 and 275 
kPa ) in our computations, so as to examine 
how the contact stress uniformity on the WP 
interface is affected by such retaining ring 
parameters.   
Note also that, for all the results 
discussed below, a uniform grid size of 0.25 
mm is used, so that there are 1200 grid points 
on the wafer surface, while the actual grid 
number on the retaining ring surface varies 
with its width.  Meanwhile, the total down 
force on the wafer (per unit breadth) is 12 
kPa-m, and that on the retaining ring lies 
between 0.215 and 13.75 kPa-m.  Under 
these conditions, it suffices to use a 
convergence criterion of 910− kPa-m for the 
force imbalances defined by Eqs. (5) and (6).  
In fact, we have also checked that smaller 
grid sizes and more stringent convergence 
criteria for the force imbalances do not 
produce noticeably different numerical 
results. 
In order to evaluate the dependence of 
the contact stress uniformity on the retaining 
ring back pressure and width, it is useful to 
have a quantitative measure for the contact 
stress uniformity.  For that purpose, here we 
define the non-uniformity, NU, of the contact 
stress distribution as follows: 
2
( )1NU 1
(2 2 ) (0)
a a
s
sa a
p x
dx
a a p
−Δ
− +Δ
⎧ ⎫= −⎨ ⎬− Δ ⎩ ⎭∫ , (10)
where (0)sp  is the contact stress at the 
wafer center.  Note also that, in a realistic 
CMP process, an edge portion of the wafer 
(typically 3–5% of the wafer radius) would 
usually be sacrificed, and so a width of aΔ  
(5 mm for all the results discussed below) 
from the wafer edge is excluded in the above 
definition of NU.  
Let us now start our discussion of 
numerical results with the special case that 
neglects the existence of a retaining ring (the 
wafer-back pressure is bwp = 40 kPa as 
specified above).  Figure 4 shows the 
 10
  
Figure 6. The fluid pressure distributions for 
various back pressures on the retaining ring 
with a width of a = 15 mm. 
 
 
Figure 7. Variations of the downward 
displacements of the wafer and the retaining 
ring with the retaining ring back pressure (with 
retaining ring width w = 15 mm and 
wafer-back pressure 40bwp =  kPa). 
 
found, because theoretically the contact 
stress indeed would be infinitely large at the 
WR juncture.  Nevertheless, the contact 
stress must have a finite strength in a realistic 
situation, and so the contact stress strength at 
the grid points nearest to the WR juncture 
would serve as a useful measure for the 
actual strength of the contact stress there.  
At any rate, we shall interpret the occurrence 
of a negative value in the calculated contact 
stress distribution simply as an indication 
that the wafer edge would no longer be in 
proper contact with the pad, so that our 
model is invalidated.  Bearing this 
interpretation in mind, it is deduced from the 
numerical results shown in Fig. 5 that the 
best contact stress uniformity is not achieved 
in the coplanar case, but in the case that the 
wafer edge is nearly stress-free instead.   
The fluid pressure distributions 
corresponding to the cases shown in Fig. 5 
(i.e., with w = 15 mm and wafer-back 
pressure 40bwp =  kPa) are plotted in Fig. 6.  
It is clearly seen that in these cases the fluid 
pressure has a magnitude on the order of 1 
kPa, and so is much lower than the contact 
stress (whose magnitude is on the order of 
100 kPa).  This implies that the pressure 
applied on the wafer back is primarily 
balanced by the contact stress.  Moreover, 
the fluid pressure has a negative gauge 
pressure near the left wafer edge (i.e., the 
leading edge of the wafer), and a positive 
gauge pressure near the right edge (i.e., the 
trailing edge) of the wafer, hence facilitating 
slurry flow in and out of the WP interface.  
Note also that, as the retaining ring back 
pressure increases, the pad is compressed to a 
greater extent, so that the equivalent slurry 
film thickness becomes smaller.  The 
resulting higher flow resistance then 
produces a more significant fluid pressure 
variation.  Furthermore, as most of the 
wafer surface is under negative fluid pressure 
(gauge), the spatially average fluid pressure 
generally has a negative value.  This means 
that the slurry flow brings the wafer to a 
closer contact with the pad. 
Again, for w = 15 mm and bwp =  40 
kPa, the calculated downward displacements 
of the wafer and the retaining ring, 0,1δ , are 
plotted against the retaining ring back 
pressure brp  in Fig. 7.  It is clearly seen 
t h a t  0 1δ δ>  w h e n  brp < 1 0 2 . 5  k P a , 
confirming the fact pointed out above that  
 12
 
Figure 10. Fluid pressure distributions for 
various retaining ring widths.  Here, the 
retaining ring back pressure is fixed at brp = 
102.5 kPa (other parameters are detailed in the 
text). 
 
 
Figure 11. Downward displacements of the wafer 
and the retaining ring for various retaining ring 
widths (with retaining ring back pressure brp = 
102.5 kPa and wafer-back pressure 40bwp =  kPa).
 
Figure 12. The contact stress non-uniformity 
(NU) and slurry flowrate (Q) for various 
retaining ring widths (with retaining ring back 
pressure brp = 102.5 kPa and wafer 
backpressure 40bwp =  kPa). 
 
ring width would be unrealistically large 
(much large than 35 mm for sure), and so we 
will not attempt to find that threshold width.  
A more important conclusion here is the 
following: In view of the results discussed in 
both Fig. 5 and Fig. 9, it is advisable to use a 
largest possible retaining ring width (within 
certain space and geometrical limitations, of 
course), and a corresponding retaining ring 
back pressure that renders the wafer edge 
nearly stress-free, because the “most 
uniform” contact stress distribution would 
then be produced. 
The f luid pressure dis tr ibut ions 
corresponding to the cases shown in Fig. 9 
(i.e., with brp = 102.5 kPa and bwp = 40 kPa) 
are plotted in Fig. 10.  It can be seen that, as 
the retaining ring width w  increases, the 
total down force applying on the retaining 
ring is enlarged (which to some extent is 
equivalent to increasing the retaining ring 
back pressure for a fixed retaining ring 
width), so that the wafer-wide fluid pressure 
variation becomes more significant.  The 
d o w n w a r d  d i s p l a c e m e n t s  0,1δ  ( f o r 
102.5brp =  kPa and 40bwp =  kPa) are plotted 
against the retaining ring width w  in Fig. 11.  
Note that 0 1δ δ>  when the retaining ring 
width 15w <  mm, confirming that the wafer 
is pressed deeper than the retaining ring in 
such cases.  Unlike the results shown in Fig. 
7, however, here 0,1δ  both increase with the 
retaining ring width w, with 1δ  growing 
faster than 0δ .  This is indeed consistent 
with the fact that, for a fixed retaining ring 
back pressure, the total down force is 
enlarged by an increased ring width.  The 
NU and Q  for various retaining ring widths 
w  (with retaining ring back pressure brp = 
102.5 kPa and wafer-back pressure 40bwp =  
 14
assumption of coplanar wafer and retaining 
ring made by Wang and Yang (2009) in their 
study of chemical effects in CMP.  More 
importantly, Fig. 13(b) suggests that, for 
every retaining ring width, we can always 
find a retaining ring back pressure that 
produces a smaller contact stress 
non-uniformity (NU) than that in the 
coplanar case.  In particular, in Fig. 13(b), 
the smallest NU = 6.9 % for w = 50 mm (the 
largest ring width studied) is produced by 
brp = 133 kPa.  It is much smaller than the 
case that neglects the presence of a retaining 
ring (NU = 59.5 %).  Although one could 
further decrease the contact stress 
non-uniformity by choosing a ring width 
w > 50 mm.  However, the results shown in 
Fig. 13(b) suggests that the further reduction 
in NU would be marginal.  Furthermore, 
while increasing the retaining ring width 
presents no technical difficulties in our 
numerical simulations, it would not be a 
sensible thing to do to use a very large 
retaining ring width in realistic CMP tools.  
For these reasons, numerical results for 
w > 50 mm will not be discussed.  An 
additional observation is as follows: 
Generally speaking, NU decreases when the 
back pressure and/or width of the retaining 
ring increase, as can be seen in Fig. 13(b).  
However, Fig. 13(c) indicates that doing so 
also decreases the slurry flowrate.  
Fortunately, the reduction in Q is limited.  
As a comparison, at the special case that 
neglects the presence of a retaining ring, the 
slurry flowrate Q  = 11.67 cm2/sec, while 
the lowest slurry flowrate shown in Fig. 13(c) 
still has Q  = 11.45 cm2/sec; the reduction is 
less than 2%. 
 
4. Conclusion and Self-Evaluation of 
Project Accomplishment 
While the original purpose of using a 
retaining ring is to keep the wafer being 
planarized in place, it also appears to be 
crucial for producing uniform CMP results 
(Gitis et al., 2004).  This can be easily 
understood on physical grounds, because the 
presence of the retaining ring would affect 
the contact stress uniformity on the wafer 
surface.  It is worth noting that using a 
retaining ring to improve the contact stress 
uniformity clearly is easier than other 
methods that have been proposed (e.g., 
multi-zone CMP), provided that the contact 
stress and MRR uniformities also can be 
improved to a satisfactory extent.  But the 
presence of the retaining ring may also 
influence the drawing and draining of slurry, 
because the flow resistance at the WP 
interface is increased accordingly.  It is 
therefore important to understand how the 
existence of a retaining ring affects the 
contact stress uniformity on the wafer surface 
and the slurry flowrate at the WP interface, 
so that the retaining ring parameters can be 
properly designed. 
To that end, in this work we have 
combined models of contact mechanics and 
fluid film lubrication to calculate the contact 
stress and fluid pressure distributions on the 
wafer surface in CMP.  Compared with 
commercial softwares for finite element 
analysis and computational fluid dynamics 
available in the market, the major advantage 
of our simplified model is its great efficiency 
in handling the intricate solid–fluid 
interactions in CMP.  In particular, using 
our simplified model for CMP, the effects of 
the retaining ring back pressure and width on 
 16
work has been initiated, with preliminary 
results appearing in Teng (2009). 
The positive results not only help 
deepen our understanding of the slurry flow 
dynamics and contact mechanics in CMP, 
they also provide us with invaluable research 
experience in this interesting engineering 
problem.  In fact, on the basis of the 
experience, several research efforts have 
been planned (and some are actively 
ongoing), in order to further understand the 
effects of various other process parameters 
on the overall performance of CMP.  So, we 
are confident to conclude that this project not 
only has been completed, it also opens up 
several important and interesting research 
directions for us to follow in the years to 
come. 
 
References 
Borucki, L.J., Ng, S.H., and Danyluk, S., 
“Fluid Pressures and Pad Topography in 
Chemical Mechanical Polishing,” J. 
Electrochemical Society, Vol. 152, No. 5, 
pp. G391–G397 (2005). 
Edgar, T.F., Butler, S.W., Campbell, W.J., 
Pfeiffer, C., Bode, C., Hwang, S.-B., 
Balakrishnan, K.S., and Hahn, J., 
“Automatic Control in Microelectronics 
Manufacturing: Practices, Challenges, and 
Possibilities,” Automatica, Vol. 36, No. 
11, pp. 1567–1603 (2000). 
Gitis, N.V., Xiao, J., Kumar, A., and Sikder, 
A.K., “Advanced Specification and Tests 
of CMP Retaining Rings,” Proc. 
CMP-MIC Conference, pp 252–255, 
Marina Del Ray, CA, USA, 24–26 
February (2004). 
Hamrock, B.J., Schmid, S.R., and Jacobson, 
B.O., Fundamentals of Fluid Film 
Lubrication, 2nd ed., Chapter 7, Marcel 
Dekker, Inc., New York (2004). 
Homma, Y., “Dynamical Mechanism of 
Chemical Mechanical Polishing Analyzed 
to Correct Preston’s Empirical Model,” J. 
Electrochemical Society, Vol. 153, No. 6, 
pp. G587–G590 (2006). 
Homma, Y., Fukushima, K., Kondo, S., and 
Sakuma, N., “Effects of Mechanical 
Parameters on CMP Characteristics 
Analyzed by Two-Dimensional Frictional- 
Force Measurement,” J. Electrochemical 
Society, Vol. 150, No. 12, pp. G751–G757 
(2003). 
Johnson, K.L., Contact Mechanics, 
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 
UK (1985). 
Kao, Y.-C., Yu, C.-C., and Shen, S.-H., 
“Robust Operation of Copper Chemical 
Mechanical Polishing,” Microelectronic 
Engineering, Vol. 65, No. 1–2, pp. 61–75 
(2003). 
Lu, J., Coppeta, J., Rogers, C., Manno, V.P., 
Racz, L., Philipossian, A., Moinpour, M., 
and Kaufman, F., “The Effect of Wafer 
Shape on Slurry Film Thickness and 
Friction Coefficients in Chemical 
Mechanical Planarization,” Proc. of 
Materials Research Society Symposium, 
Vol. 613, pp. E1.2.1–E1.2.6, San 
Francisco, CA, USA, 26–27 April (2000). 
Moinpour, M., Tregub, A., Oehler, A., and 
Cadien, K., “Advances in Characterization 
of CMP Consumables,” MRS Bulletin, 
Vol. 27, No. 10, pp. 766–771 (2002). 
Patir, N., and Cheng, H.S., “Average Flow 
Model for Determining Effects of 
 18
Tseng, W.-T., and Wang, Y.-L., 
“Reexamination of Pressure and Speed 
Dependences of Removal Rate During 
Chemical Mechanical Polishing 
Processes,” J. Electrochemical Society, 
Vol. 144, No. 2, pp. L15–L17 (1997). 
Wang, Y.-C., and Yang, T.-S., “Effects of 
Pad Grooves on Chemical Mechanical 
Planarization,” J. Electrochemical Society, 
Vol. 154, No. 6, pp. H486–H494 (2007) 
Wang, Y.-C., and Yang, T.-S., “Modeling 
and Calculation of Slurry-Chemistry 
Effects on Chemical–Mechanical 
Planarization with a Grooved Pad,” J. 
Engineering Mathematics, Vol. 63, No. 1, 
pp. 33–50 (2009). 
Yang, T.-S., Wang, Y.-C., Chen, K.-S., Chen, 
Y.-J., and Yan, J.-L., “Optimization of 
Wafer-Back Pressure Profile in Chemical 
Mechanical Planarization,” J. Electro- 
chemical Society, Vol. 155, No. 10, pp. 
H720–H729 (2008). 
 
 2
所產生的負面影響。同時，晶圓表面平坦化製程更對曝光往更微細極限發展有很大的助益。
到目前為止，大部分的平坦化處理方法依不同金屬膜或絕緣膜材料的差異性，其平坦化的能
力從數微米到數十微米不等，效果極為有限，並無法滿足半導體製程不斷追求微細化的需求。
相較之下，近年來快速發展的化學機械平坦化製程（chemical mechanical planarization/polishing; 
CMP）技術已成為公認最優良的晶圓平坦化技術，也是唯一可以進行層間絕緣膜 (inter layer 
dielectric; ILD) 與金屬導線膜之全面平坦化的技術。而且當半導體積體電路的導線尺寸在 0.25
微米以下時，也只有 CMP 能完成晶圓表面平坦化之工作需求。 
 
在筆者所發表的研究成果中，我們透過多區段晶圓背壓 (multi-zone wafer-back pressure 
profile) 之實施，達成提高 CMP 製程中材料移除率均勻度之目的，並且利用理論模擬與計算
分析協助找出最佳之晶圓背壓分佈。若干與會學者在筆者報告後表示對於研究中所獲得之有
趣結果感到印象深刻，並進一步和筆者交換與進一步研究相關之看法。 
 
同時，筆者也積極參與多場和個人研究興趣相近之論文發表會，並直接與其他與會學
者交換意見，進而激發出若干新的研究構想。總的來說，此次與會不僅對個人而言極有收穫，
同時也達成向國際間介紹國內研究成果、以及促進國際學術交流合作之目的。 
 
 
二、與會心得 
 
在這次會議中所發表的論文依其性質或研究對象共分為約六十個主題（詳見大會議
程）。其中除了包含生物流體動力學（bio-fluid dynamics）、微流體動力學（micro-fluid dynamics）
等新興科技領域外，亦含括了如紊流理論（turbulence theory）、液動穩定理論（hydrodynamic 
stability theory）、渦旋動力學（vortex dynamics）等許多基礎研究領域；足見國際間流體力學
研究在基礎和應用方面都有相當的重視與投入。 
 
      事實上，國內在許多基礎及應用領域中也都有若干學者投入，並在國科會及其他單位
的贊助下達成不錯的成績。目前相關單位也規劃了許多新的措施，以期更有效地整合人力資
源及研究方向，提升台灣在國際學術舞台上之能見度及影響力。在這些積極作為之下，學術
界同仁漸漸地也有較多的資源和機會參與國際學術活動，相信假以時日我國在國際學術舞台
上之重要性也會更上層樓才是。 
 
      同時，筆者相信絕大多數學者都會同意任何先進科技之發展皆奠基於完整深入之基礎
研究；且惟有具有深厚基礎學識才能夠真正靈活地掌握、甚至領導各項尖端技術之發展。個
人覺得將來在工程課程規劃上除了應介紹各項新興科技之發展與應用外，也該同時多激發學
生對於基礎學識之興趣與重視，並加強相關訓練及要求，以期為國家培養全方位之科技人才。 
 
 
三、建議 
 
