時間解析擴散光學臨床影像系統開發研究 
Research and development of a time-resolved diffuse optical imaging system for 
clinical applications  
 
計畫編號：NSC 99-2221-E-010-011-  
執行期限：2010 年 08 月 01 日至 2011 年 07 月 31 日  
主持人：孫家偉 國立陽明大學生醫光電跨領域研究中心  
 
中文摘要  
  在人體組織中，對於波長約在 600-1000 nm 近紅外光的吸收係數較小，光在
組織中也能穿透較深。因此，善用於此特性可以讓非侵入式的光學(醫療)儀器達
到可穿透最深深度，以一窺人體內部相關特徵。時間解析擴散光學造影技術便是
利用此波段的近紅外光為醫學影像檢測光源，利用這些光子的強度與分布等資訊
可以重建出在生物體內吸收與散射隨時間與空間分布的變化，在目前的臨床應用
上，始以大腦功能性造影、胸部腫瘤以及運動醫學為主要研究探討的對象，在未
來也是以這些為主軸進而發展出應用在更廣泛的層面上。此技術的優點是非侵入
式、即時檢測、非輻射源以及結構與功能性生理量測。本研究之願景在於發展一
套時間解析擴散光學臨床影像系統。在系統建構之前，希望透過模擬來評估未來
系統建構的可行性與重建影像品質的分析。我們將以蒙地卡羅時間解析光子遷移
模擬結果為基礎，進行光學系統和探頭設計。 
 
關鍵字：時間解析造影，擴散光學造影，近紅外光譜學，蒙地卡羅模擬法 
 
Abstract  
The near-infrared light is weakly absorbed between 600-900 nm in the human 
tissue. Therefore, the optical imaging system with the deep penetration characteristic 
can be applied to biomedical instrument. Time0resolved diffuse optical imaging (DOI) 
is an emerging technique for biomedical imaging based on the near-infrared photons. 
It is a technique that images spatial variations in absorption and scattering properties 
of the biological tissues. For the clinical studies, the breast cancer detection, the 
functional brain imaging, and the diagnosis of exercise medicine will be concerned 
and focused in further research. It has the advantages of noninvasive, real-time, 
non-radiation and functional imaging. The vision of this study aims to develop a 
time-resolved diffuse optical imaging system for clinical applications. Before the 
system has been developed, the simulation method could provide the image quality 
analysis and feasibility of system develop. The optode design and imaging process of 
various geometric configurations. Common geometric configurations, suited for 
different applications, fall into planar transmission, planar reflection, and cylindrical 
reemission. Most anatomical sites can be imaged in the planar reflection configuration. 
Generally, while one source illuminates the object, all detectors measure the reemitted 
light. This process is repeated with each source to complete a measurement data set; 
subsequently, images are reconstructed by computer. DOI is usually achieved with the 
backscattering light detection by using source-detector pairs on the surface of human 
tissue.  
For DOI implementation, there are several issues that including system layout, light 
delivery, signal conditioning, light detection, optode arrangement, temporal response, 
wavelength-dependent parameter, dynamic ranges and image reconstruction should be 
understood well [11]. However, the simulation approach is important for 
characterization of photon migration in human brain with various source-detector 
separations before the system have been developed. Thus, we apply the Monte Carlo 
algorithm for the time-resolved DOI simulation for this study. In our time-resolved 
DOI simulation, sources and detectors are placed around the human brain and breast 
to be monitored in various geometric configurations. Since it is difficult to directly 
measure the photon migration in tissue, Monte Carlo simulation is a good tool for the 
estimation of the optical pathway with various source-detector separations in human 
tissues.  
2. Methods  
2.1 Brain model  
In our study, three brain models with different atrophy statuses are used for Monte 
Carlo simulation. Figure 1 shows the modeling process of 3D human brain from in 
vivo MRI images. First, the clinical MRI T1 scan offers 92 axial slices as in Fig. 1 (a). 
The images were segmented into five layers of brain tissue as scalp, skull, CSF, gray 
matter, and white matter. The 3D brain image contains 256×256×92 voxels and each 
voxel size is 1×1×1 mm3 that corresponds to the resolution of 3D MRI image. First, 
the scalp and skull layers were segmented by means of edge detection and region 
growing as shown in Fig. 1 (b). Then, the probabilistic framework was applied to 
classify CSF, gray matter and white matter layers with unified segmentation, which 
was performed by fitting a mixture of Gaussians (MOG) model with prior information 
of deformable tissue probability maps (as shown in Fig. 1 (c), (d) and (e), 
respectively). Figure 1 (f) demonstrates a 2D five-layer brain structure after 
segmentation processes. Finally, figure 1 (g) and (h) show the 3D MRI image and the 
corresponding optical brain model which was performed in Monte Carlo simulation. 
In the simulations, 800 nm wavelength light source was applied for illumination of 
 
Fig. 2.  The source-detector separations on human head with arranged as (a) transverse and sagittal 
views, and (b) coronal view.  
 
2.2 Breast model  
In this study, the human breast is also modeled based on in vivo MRI T1 image as 
five layers structure. A three-dimensional image of breast contains 256×256×130 
voxels. Each voxel is a 0.8×0.8×0.8 mm3 from the resolution of in vivo MRI image. 
The layers are assigned as air, skin, fatty tissue, glandular tissue, sternum and ribcage, 
respectively. The wavelength of near-infrared light source is 800 nm in simulation. 
The reduced scattering coefficients μs’ of the five layers are 14 (skin), 7.67 (fatty 
tissue), 8.94 (glandular tissue), 16 (sternum), and 39 (ribcage) cm-1 that corresponded 
to 800 nm. Also, the absorption coefficients μa of the five layers are 0.23 (skin), 0.11 
(fatty tissue), 0.06 (glandular tissue), 0.16 (sternum), and 2.8 (ribcage) cm-1, 
respectively. Furthermore, due to the high angiogenesis of tumor, the reduced 
scattering coefficient and absorption coefficient of tumor are decided as 9.41 cm-1 and 
6.5 cm-1 as optical properties of hemoglobin around 800 nm Table 2 lists the optical 
coefficients of human breast in each layer [14].  
 
Table 2 Optical properties of breast tissues in Monte Carlo simulation  
Tissue type μs’ (cm-1) μa (cm-1) 
Anisotropy factor  
(g) 
Skin 14 0.23 0.9 
Fatty tissue 7.67 0.11 0.9 
Glandular tissue 8.94 0.06 0.9 
Sternum 16 0.16 0.9 
Ribcage 39 2.8 0.9 
Tumor 9.41 6.5 0.9 
Diffuser 50 0 0.8 
 
 
Fig. 4. The geometric configuration of optode for breast imaging: (a) source-detector separations on 
optode and (b) proging scheme of optode for breast imaging. The optode consists 3 × 3 sources and 4 × 
4 detectors with 10 mm shortest source-detector separation. Here a tumor was located between source 
S5 and detector D6 with 10 mm depth under the breast skin.  
 
In the diffuser-aided DOI approach, the spatial distribution of the detected 
backscattering light from breast surface is defined as IS and the detected light with a 
diffuser between optode and breast surface is defined as IDS. In simulation, the 
backscattering light IS and IDS are detected on the same location of breast surface. The 
adopted diffuser provides much stronger scattering such that IDS can be a background 
signal with blurred image information. The operation of diffuser-aided DOI method is 
shown in Fig. 5. Figure 5 (a) illustrates the conventional DOI measurement with 
single channel detection and Fig. 5 (b) shows the background measurement by use of 
diffuser. Also, the related optical properties of the diffuser are drawn in Table. 2. The 
mean free path of IDS is longer than IS, i.e., the diffuse part of IDS is more than IS, can 
be obviously observed in Fig. 5 (c). Then, the signal of diffuser-aided DOI can be 
obtained by the modified Beer-Lambert’s Law (MBL) as eq. (1). Based on the method 
we mentioned above, all the backscattering light IS and IDS are detected by each 
source-detector pairs of the optobe (Fig. 4), then MBL is calculated for mapping of 
spatial distribution.  
DS
S
I
IOD ln                           (1)  
time-resolved method can catch the structural information of brain atrophy. In our 
simulation, all photon-passed voxels were recorded for photon migration analysis , 
which shows the dynamic photon migration with 800 nm light pulse illumination 
through the healthy, aged and AD brain models.  
 
Fig. 6.  The dynamics of photon migration in Transverse (T), Sagittal (S) and Coronal (C) views with 
800 nm light illumination: (a) at time = 0 ps, (b) at time = 104 ps, (c) at time = 161 ps, (d) at time = 312 
ps (e) at time = 611 ps and (f) at time = 1000 ps.  
 
Figure 7 (a) to (c) show the intensities mapping of detected photon with various 
source-detector separations in transverse, sagittal and coronal views. Figure 7 (d) to (f) 
show the intensity curves via source-detector separations. The received intensities 
decrease while source-detector separations increase in all cross sections. In the result, 
we can see that the one-dimensional images of sagittal views are significantly 
different among three brains. In Fig. 7 (e), the discontinuous intensity decay results 
from the interhemispheric fissure in aged and AD brain. The CSF expansion of aged 
and AD brains causes the slow and smooth intensity to decrease, as in Fig 7 (f).  
 Fig. 8. The imaging result of diffuser-aided DOI approach. (a) Imaging of IS. (b) Imaging of IDS. (c) The 
diffuser-aided DOI imaging (imaging of ΔOD). (d) The image mapping with respect to optode position 
on breast surface.  
 
 
Fig. 9. Diffuser-aided DOI images with different depth in breast. The color bars on DADOI images 
represent the corresponded temporal regions of light intensity.  
4. Discussions and Conclusion  
Optical brain imaging continues to provide new and remarkable insights on how 
diseases cause impact on the human brain. Although the medical imaging systems 
such as MRI and PET can provide the diagnosis with structural imaging of human 
brain, the techniques have the main drawback of requiring large apparatus with space 
simultaneously and it is expected in application to patient-oriented diagnosis. We 
hope that the proposed method can be applied to not only neurodegenerative diseases 
but also depression and schizophrenia diagnosis.  
The feasibility of time-resolved diffuser-aided DOI for breast imaging was 
manifested in the paper. The result of Fig. 8 shows that the better contrast was 
obtained with diffuser-aided DOI approach. Finally, the optode array was designed for 
mapping of spatial distribution. Based on time gating approach, Fig. 9 demonstrates 
that the depth information was observed of the contrast images with delay signal of 
the detected photon. In this study, we can monitor the breast tumor and detects 
background signal on the same location and simpler to obtain the better contrast 
image with MBL while the different optical parameters between normal and abnormal 
areas. The time-resolved diffuser-aided DOI approach can provide better imaging 
contrast and faster imaging than conventional DOT measurement. However, the 
bottleneck of the DOI is still limited by the spatial resolution. In future study, the 
time-resolved diffuser-aided DOI approach applies multi-wavelength sources to map 
the images of hemoglobin concentration with MBL that possesses great potential to 
detect the breast tumor in early stage and chemotherapy monitoring.  
5. References  
[1] Y. Xu, N. Iftimia, H. Jiang, L. L. Key, M. B. Bolster, “Three-dimensional diffuse 
optical tomography of bones and joints,” J. Biomed. Opt. vol. 7, pp. 88-92, 2002.  
[2] D. R. Leff, O. J. Warren, L. C. Enfield, A. Gibson, T. Athanasiou, D. K. Patten, J. 
Hebden, G. Z. Yang and A. Darzi, “Diffuse optical imaging of the healthy and 
diseased breast: A systematic review,” Breast Cancer Res Treat vol. 108, pp. 
9-22, 2008.  
[3] A. Custo, D. A. Boas, D. Tsuzuki, I. Dan, R. Mesquita, B. Fischl, W. E. L. 
Grimson, W. Wells, “Anatomical Atlas-Guided Diffuse Optical Tomography of 
Brain Activation,”  Neuroimage vol. 49, pp. 561-567, 2009.  
[4] J. C. Hebden, A. Gibson, R. M. Yusof, N. Everdel, E. M. C. Hillman, D. T. Delpy, 
S. R. Arridge, T. Austin, J. H. Meek and J. S. Wyatt, “Three-dimensional optical 
tomography of the premature infant brain,” Phys. Med. Biol. vol. 47, pp. 
4155-4166, 2002.  
[5] F. E. W. Schmidt, M. E. Fry, E. M. C. Hillman., J. C. Hebden, and D. T. Delpy, 
“A 32-channel time-resolved instrument for medical optical tomography,” Rev. 
Sci. Instrum. vol. 71, pp. 256-265, 2000.  
[6] J. Selb, D. K. Joseph and D. A. Boas, “Time-gated optical system for 
depth-resolved functional brain imaging,” J. Biomed. Opt. vol. 11, pp. 044008 
1-13, 2006.  
 1
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                日期： 100 年 10 月 25 日 
一、參加會議經過 
  SPIE 所舉辦的Photonics West 會議乃光電領域之一年一度盛事，該會議又可細分為數個子會議：
BiOS 2011, LASE 2011, MOEMS-MEMS 2011, OPTO 2011。BiOS 主要是涵蓋生醫光電及造影等方面的
相關研究。LASE 的主題則是雷射方面的基礎研究及應用，其範圍包括雷射材料、雷射元件、及雷射
系統工程等。MOEMS-MEMS則是涵蓋光學微機電及微機電系統。OPTO 則著眼於先進光電技術的發
展及整合。 
  本次發表的兩篇文章分別是發表於 BiOS 中的 Optical Techniques in Neurosurgery, Brain Imaging, 
and Neurobiology (發表題目: Study on the early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease with near-infrared 
spectroscopy based on three-dimensional Monte Carlo modeling, 7883E-114, 口頭報告) 以及 Optical 
Tomography and Spectroscopy of Tissue IX (發表題目: Study on diffuser-aided diffuse optical tomography 
for breast imaging based on three-dimensional Monte Carlo modeling, 7896-102, 壁報)，本人於第一天
(2011/01/22)早上9:20進行20分鐘的口頭報告，由於SPIE屬於國際重要的會議，能夠獲得口頭報告的機
會對本人的外語表達以及專業能力有相當大的幫助，接下來第一天的時間本人主要參加的場次分別為: 
Urology: Diagnostics, Therapeutics, Robotics, Minimally Invasive, and Photodynamic Therapy 中的 Optical 
imaging, Mechanisms for Low-Light Therapy VI 中的 Clinical Studies. 接下來第二天主要參加 Optical 
Tomography and Spectroscopy of Tissue IX, 在第二天下午5:30~7:00帶領研究生進行另一篇題目的壁報
展示，能與所有與會的專家進行面對面的研究討論對本人而言實在是一個很難得的經驗，對於本人往
計畫編號 NSC 99－2221－E－010－011－ 
計畫名稱 時間解析擴散光學臨床影像系統開發研究  
出國人員
姓名 孫家偉 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立陽明大學生醫光電跨
領域研究中心  
會議時間 2011 年 01 月 22 日至2011 年 01 月 27 日 會議地點 美國, 舊金山 
會議名稱 
(中文) SPIE BiOS 2011 Photonics West 國際生醫光學研討會 
(英文) SPIE BiOS 2011 Photonics West 
發表論文
題目 
1) Study on the early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease with near-infrared spectroscopy 
based on three-dimensional Monte Carlo modeling (Oral).  
2) Study on diffuser-aided diffuse optical tomography for breast imaging based on 
three-dimensional Monte Carlo modeling (Post). 
Pap
Aut
Nat
(Tai
Hid
Bra
dem
pati
indi
brai
sepa
thre
whi
laye
exp
thus
betw
http
90&
amt
 
Fro
Dat
To:
Sub
Info
 
Dea
On 
Ima
Study on
spectr
er 7883E-1
hor(s): Chin
ional Yang-
wan); Chun
e Abstract 
in atrophy 
entias, ther
ents, who 
cate the sta
n of the no
rations are
e-dimensio
te matter fr
r in brain a
anded CSF
 the detect
een norma
://spie.org//
ID=x7777&
rack_id=92
m: <mirjas
e: 2010年
 chiaweisun
ject: SPIE
rmation 
r Prof. Chia
behalf of th
ging, and N
 the early 
oscopy ba
14  
g-Cheng C
Ming Univ
-Yang Wa
 
is concom
efore, the d
with brain
tus of bra
rmal, elde
 analyzed 
nal brain m
om in vivo
re recorded
 layer affe
ed light dis
l and Alzhe
app/progra
redir=x77
7502  
@spie.org>
9月 22日 
@ym.edu.t
 Paper Num
-Wei Sun, 
e Chairs fo
eurobiolog
Oral prese
diagnosis o
sed on thre
huang, Nat
. (Taiwan);
ng, Yao-Sh
itant with
ifference o
atrophy su
in structure
rly and Al
based on t
odel consi
 MRI imag
 by markin
cts the beh
tribution on
imer's subj
m/index.cfm
77.xml&co
 
上午 02時
w 
ber 7883E
 
r the upcom
y" confere
 
ntation 被
f Alzheime
e-dimensio
ional Taiw
 Chung-Mi
eng Hsieh, 
 Alzheime
f optical pr
ch as dem
. In our st
zheimer's s
hree-dimen
sts of scalp
e. The bac
g the deepe
avior of ph
 brain surf
ects.  
?fuseactio
nference_i
59分 27秒
-114 Acce
ing "Optic
nce, it is m
接受文章
r's disease
nal Monte
an Univ. (T
ng Chen, N
National C
r's disease
operties be
entia and 
udy, the ph
ubjects wi
sional Mon
, skull, CS
kscattered 
st layer for
oton migr
ace implies
n=conferen
d=927513&
格林威治
ptance an
al Techniqu
y pleasure 
 with near
 Carlo mo
aiwan); Ch
ational Taiw
hiao Tung U
 and othe
tween norm
Alzheimer
oton migra
th various 
te Carlo s
F layer, gr
diffuse pho
 brain statu
ation as wa
 the signifi
cedetail&e
event_id=8
標準時間+
d Manuscr
es in Neur
to confirm 
 
-infrared 
deling 
ia-Wei Su
an Univ. 
niv. (Taiw
r degenera
al subjects
's disease, 
tion in hu
source-dete
imulation. 
ay matter, 
tons from 
s analysis. 
veguide e
cant differ
xport_id=x
94270&pr
08:00 
ipt 
osurgery, B
the accept
n, 
an) 
tive
 and
can
man
ctor 
The 
and
each
The
ffect
ence
130
ogr
rain 
ance 
From: <kristinah@spie.org> 
Date: 2010年 9月 23日 上午 02時 32分 20秒格林威治標準時間+08:00 
To: chiaweisun@ym.edu.tw 
Subject: SPIE Paper Number 7896-102 Acceptance and Manuscript Information 
 
Dear Dr. Chia-Wei Sun,  
 
Congratulations! The chairs for the upcoming "Optical Tomography and 
Spectroscopy of Tissue IX" conference have accepted your paper, "Study on 
diffuser-aided diffuse optical tomography for breast imaging based on 
three-dimensional Monte Carlo modeling," as a Poster presentation to be 
presented 23 Jan 2011. This conference is part of BiOS which will be held 22-27 
January 2011 in San Francisco, California United States.  
 
PLEASE SAVE OR PRINT THIS MESSAGE FOR FUTURE REFERENCE AS 
IT PROVIDES IMPORTANT DETAILS FOR THIS EVENT.  
 
PAPER NUMBER: 7896-102  
 Please include your SPIE Paper Number in the subject line of all Email 
correspondence. 
 
PAPER TITLE: Study on diffuser-aided diffuse optical tomography for breast 
imaging based on three-dimensional Monte Carlo modeling  
 If you have changes to your title, abstract, or list of authors for the 
conference program, please send changes directly to me 
at  kristinah@spie.org by *8 November 2010*. Changes submitted 
with your manuscript will not automatically be reflected in the 
conference program. 
 
PREPARE YOUR PRESENTATION AND PROCEEDINGS 
MANUSCRIPT: http://spie.org/x27475.xml  
 
PRESENTATION DATE: 23 Jan 2011  
 If you are presenting more than one paper, please check the program 
online to see if the sessions overlap. If your presentations are at risk of 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/26
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 時間解析擴散光學臨床影像系統開發研究
計畫主持人: 孫家偉
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-010-011- 學門領域: 生醫光電
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
1. 指導交大顯示所碩士班研究生王俊揚獲得 2010 台灣光電科技研討會暨國科
會光電學門成果發表會優秀論文獎。 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
