 2
all parts of the system that would not otherwise be 
visible through experimental means.  It provides 
excellent visualization of tunnel fire smoke flow 
structures and prediction of tunnel user evacuation.  
As a result, fire engineers and consultants use CFD 
codes as an integral part of the tunnel design and 
analysis to simulate practical fire scenario and to 
predict the tunnel performance and response to fire 
accidents.  Since a CFD model is virtual, it is always 
relatively easy to be modified than a physical model.  
Thus, it is excellent to predict the response of a tunnel 
fire and smoke under various circumstances.   
 
Because of the limitation in computational 
resources, the tunnel fire problems solved before 
mid-1980s was limited to simplified ones [4-5].  After 
the mid-19280s when computer power had become 
more powerful, many numerical studies related to 
compartment and outdoor fires were carried out but 
successful simulations of fire and/or smoke movements 
in tunnel fires were extremely rare.  The first rather 
complete and successful numerical simulation was 
performed by Kumar and Cox [6].  They claimed that 
their predictions remote from the fire and in low 
ventilation situations agreed quite satisfactorily with 
field measurements obtained from the disused 
Zwenberg Railway Tunnel.  Similarly, Kotoh and 
Yamanaka [7] had also found that their CFD results 
downstream far away from the fire source were much 
more comparable to experimental data obtained from 
both full-scaled or reduced-scaled tunnels.   
 
Xue et al. [8-11] performed a series of 
experimental and computational studies related to 
fire-induced transient three-dimensional turbulent 
buoyancy air flow in a ventilated tunnel.  Again, their 
computational results were in reasonable agreement 
with their experimental data except in the region close 
to the burner.  They even showed that the predictions 
of temperature near the fire source were poor for three 
different combustion models - the volumetric heat 
source model, the eddy break-up model, and the 
presumed probability density function model. 
 
Woodburn and Britter [12-13] found that the 
length of the backlayering depends on the ventilation 
velocity and the heat input rate.  Among these two 
factors, the ventilation velocity was more influential.  
Their simulations produced temperatures more 
comparable to the full-scaled field measurements if 
natural convection, radiation, and wall roughness at fire 
downstream are taken into consideration.  Tabarra et al. 
[14] and Tuovinen et al. [15] had also studied tunnel 
fires.  Although Tabarra et al. found that their 
FLOW3D results compared poorly with experimental 
data, Tuovinen et al. concluded that JASMINE results 
agreed better with temperature measurements near the 
fire source while FLOW3D results were in better 
agreement with experimental data far away from the 
fire source.  Later, Karki and Patankar [16] considered 
turbulence, fire, radiation, smoke and jet fan using and 
their numerical predictions were quantitatively in good 
agreement with the data from the Memorial Tunnel Fire 
Ventilation Test Program in the region more than 60 m 
away from the fire source.   
 
Wu and Bakar [17] measured the temperature and 
velocity distributions of a series of experimental tests in 
five model tunnels.  Their experimental data for the 
five tunnels can be correlated into simple formulae.  
Good agreements had been obtained for their technique 
applied on their experimental results as well as three 
large-scale experimental results available in the 
literature.  They also performed FLUENT simulations 
to examine the flow behavior inside the tunnels.  
Validation against the experimental results showed that 
the CFD flow velocity prediction was slightly lower 
while the temperature prediction was too high.   
 
The goals of the present work can be divided into 
two parts, a CFD simulation and an experimental flow 
visualization.  In the first part, a CFD simulation was 
performed using FDS to investigate fires and smoke 
phenomena in tunnels with the installation of 
ventilation fans.  All the simulations will make use of 
the LES model [18-20].  Other parameters to be 
investigated as well include the fan ventilation speeds 
and reasonable fire heat release rates.  In the second 
part, a modeling of the buoyancy-driven flows in a 
tunnel was performed using the fine-bubble technique.  
A water-proof water pump was installed in the 
apparatus to visualize the smoke flow pattern within the 
tunnel.  Pictures were taken to compare with the 
results from the CFD simulation carried in the first part.  
Although the fine-bubble technique is presently not 
applicable for Froude scaling method, this analogy is an 
inexpensive approach to visualize the plume, smoke 
front (inversed gravity current), and fan-induced mixing 
of smoke and fresh air. 
 
3. Methodology 
 
This work consists of two parts.  In the first part, 
CFD simulations were performed to investigate the 
effect of jet fans on the overall smoke flow phenomena 
in the tunnel.  In the second part, an experimental 
approach using fine-bubble technique was employed to 
visualize the smoke flow patterns. 
 
a. Field Model 
The fire characteristics can be predicted based on 
the solution of the mathematical equations that describe 
the physical and chemical behavior of combustion 
processes.  This approach is called the fielding 
modeling.  The application of CFD codes, such as 
Fluent, FDS, and SMARTFIRE, to study fire 
characteristics is an example of field modeling.  The 
 4
  
( )2S i
i , j
t j
C Ym S
Sc x
ρ Δ ∂= − ∂
, (16) 
where 
1
2
ji
ij
j i
uuS
x x
⎛ ⎞∂∂= +⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟∂ ∂⎝ ⎠ , and (17) 
 
2 ij ijS S S= . (18) 
The parameter CS and Δ in (14) to (16) are 
respectively an adjustable empirical constant and a 
length scale on the order of the grid cell dimension.  
Prt and Sct are the turbulent Prandtl and Schmidt 
numbers. 
 
The simulation of fire is introduced into the 
problem through the prescription of a special boundary 
condition describing the physics of fires.  At the 
surface of the fire source, the boundary conditions are 
set up such that the surface acts as a source of heat and 
mass production.  A non-slip velocity boundary 
condition will be applied on the solid surfaces.  
However, for the burning surfaces, a weak tangential 
velocity component may be induced by the chemical 
products resulting from the combustion process.  
When compared with the thermal buoyancy-induced 
flow, this tangential velocity component may be 
neglected.  Although CFD models have been used for 
more than twenty years and the techniques employed 
are relatively mature, they are still unlikely to produce 
accurate results comparable to experimental findings.  
This is due to the difficulty in theoretical modeling of 
certain features of fires associated with turbulent 
combustion process where the phenomena are either too 
complicated to model or too little is known about it. 
 
b. Experimental Approach 
Since full-scale modeling of smoke flows in 
tunnels is very unlike to perform due to high costs, 
small-scale modeling for visualization is much more 
feasible.  To date, there are basically three 
laboratory-scale modeling techniques: the gas modeling 
system with heat sources, the water modeling system 
with heat sources, and the brine-water modeling system 
[23].  In this work, a relatively new method, so-called 
the fine-bubble modeling technique, will be employed.  
The reliability of this method has been validated 
[23-24].  The background behind this technique is 
extremely simple.  It is based on the electrolysis of 
water into the hydrogen and oxygen, as shown in Fig. 3.  
Its overall chemical reaction is written as follows, 
 2 2 22 electrical energy 2H O O H+ → + . (19) 
The above process is schematically illustrated in 
Fig. 1.  The power supply creates a negative charge at 
the cathode leading to an electrical pressure pushing 
electrons into the water.  In contrast, the power supply 
creates a positive charge at the anode causing the 
electrode to absorb free electrons.  Near the cathode, 
water molecules are split into a positively charged 
hydrogen ion H+ and a negatively charged "hydroxide" 
ion OH- because oxygen atom is more "electronegative" 
than hydrogen atom.  The chemical reaction at the 
cathode is given as 
 2H O H OH
+ −→ + . (20) 
Of these two types of radicals, the hydroxide ion 
produced is more stable than the hydrogen ion.  The 
more unstable hydrogen ion is now free to pick up an 
electron from the cathode to form a neutral hydrogen 
atom: 
 H e H
− −+ → , (21) 
where e- denotes an electron.  This hydrogen atom 
then meets and bonds with another hydrogen atom to 
form a hydrogen gas molecule as: 
 2H H H+ → . (22) 
While the above processes take place at the 
cathode, hydroxide ions travel to the anode where the 
extra electrons that the hydroxide ions stole from the 
hydrogen atoms are removed.  Then, a hydroxide ion 
combines with three other hydroxide ions to form an 
oxygen molecule and two water molecules.  The 
chemical reaction is expressed as follows 
 2 24 2 4OH O H O e
− −→ + + . (23) 
For the case of natural convection, no water pump is 
included.  The flow of bubbles is solely based on the 
buoyant force of the fine bubbles.  Once everything is 
probably setup, the power supply is turned on.  
Oxygen bubbles are generated at the anode while 
hydrogen bubbles are at the cathode, as schematically 
shown in Fig. 4(a).  A digital camera is setup on a 
tripod aiming at the tunnel model.  Once the hydrogen 
bubbles start to appear, multiple snap shots are taken to 
capture instantaneous changes of the shape of the 
bubble flow.  For the case of forced convection, a 
waterproof water pump is rigidly mounted in the water 
tank to supply fresh water into the tunnel model from 
one of its end.  The water pump is wired to another 
power supply, as shown in Fig. 4(b).  As everything is 
ready, the power supply connected to the water pump 
will be turned on first followed by the power supply 
connecting the anode and cathode.  Similar to the 
natural convection case, a series of pictures will be 
taken to record the bubble motion under the influence 
of buoyancy and water pump flow rate. 
 6
forms a ceiling jet as soon as it reaches the ceiling, as 
depicted in Fig. 6.  Once the smoke flow is prohibited 
to flow further upwards, it is diverted to flow 
horizontally [25].  As shown in Fig. 7, the flow of 
bubbles rises almost vertically until it hits the ceiling 
and then flows horizontally.  Since the tunnel is long 
in nature, the flow of bubbles propagates towards the 
tunnel exits on each side.  Water is then entrained 
towards the bubble source.  Because of the difference 
in flow directions between the upper bubble flow and 
the lower pure water flow, the interface between the 
bubble flow and the pure water becomes unstable and 
eventually generates relatively large eddies.   
 
Figs. 8 demonstrate the bubble flow within a 
horizontal tunnel model at different times after the 
initiation of bubble generation.  At 5 seconds, the 
bubbles were seen rising from the bubble source but 
they had not reached the ceiling yet.  At this stage, the 
flow pattern is somewhat similar to that shown in Fig. 5.  
At 30 seconds, the bubbles had reached the ceiling and 
were forced to propagate to the exit either on the left or 
on the right hand side.  The flow pattern was then 
similar to that of Fig. 6.  It is apparent that the 
propagation of the bubble flow traveling in either 
direction was very similar in fashion.  At 60 seconds, 
the fronts of the bubble flow had moved further towards 
the exits.  Obviously, the flow pattern remains almost 
symmetrical about the bubble source. 
 
 The flow patterns of the bubbles corresponding to 
a tilted tunnel model are shown in Figs. 9.  The tilted 
angles considered were 5° and 10° other than the 
horizontal one.  When the bubble source was located 
comparatively closer to the tunnel exit, the dispersion 
of bubbles could be further examined.  For the 
horizontal tunnel, the bubbles spread in both directions 
even though the bubble source was closer to the right 
exit.  As the tilted angle increased to 5°, the bubbles 
had a greater tendency to flow to the right due to 
buoyant force.  For this reason, the bubble propagation 
in the opposite direction was clearly less preferable.  If 
the tilted angle was further increased to 10°, the bubble 
flow exiting the tunnel model was almost the same with 
that associated to 5°.  However, it is important to 
notice that the backlayering effect was apparently 
suppressed. 
 
For the case of forced convection, a funnel-shape 
diffuser connected to a waterproof water pump was 
firmly mounted on the left hand side of the tunnel 
model.  The pump was wired to another power supply.  
Similar to the natural convection case, a series of 
pictures were taken to record the bubble motion under 
the influence of buoyancy and pump flow rate.  The 
pump rates investigated in this study was 53 cc/s and 
159 cc/s. 
 
 Figs. 10 show the bubble flow in a longitudinally 
ventilated tunnel model at three different timings.  At 
5 seconds, the plume rising from the bubble source was 
no longer vertical.  Instead, it was slightly tilted to the 
right proving the existence of ventilation.  5 more 
seconds later, it was observed that the bubbles had 
reached the tunnel model ceiling and had begun moving 
downstream.  At 20 seconds, the bubble flow had 
exited the tunnel model.  It is acceptable to claim that 
the bubble flow had reached a quasi-steady state 
because the flow pattern at 30 seconds was 
macroscopically identical with that at 20 seconds.  It is 
remarkable to point out that the backlayering effect was 
completely suppressed. 
 
 Since the rising of bubbles is because of their 
buoyancy, the slope of the tunnel model surely has a 
tremendous effect on the flow pattern.  As illustrated 
in Figs. 11, a comparison of bubble flow 60 seconds 
after the initiation of bubble generation in a tunnel 
model at three different tilted angles can be examined.  
When the tunnel model was tilted -5°, the flow pattern 
can be considered as an opposing flow in which the 
bubble buoyancy was basically against the ventilation 
inertia.  On the other hand, when the tunnel model was 
tilted 5°, both the bubble buoyancy and the ventilation 
inertia were in the same direction.  This is referred to 
as the aiding flow.  At these particular cases, the 
ventilation inertia was large enough to prevent the 
occurrence of backlayering effect. 
 
 Figs. 12 shows the effect of bubble concentration 
that is analogous to the heat release rate of the tunnel 
fire source as clearly indicated in eq. (25) 
  
2
PT M
M PT
LT
L
θβ
ϕ θ
⎛ ⎞⎛ ⎞Δ = ⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟Δ ⎝ ⎠⎝ ⎠ , (25) 
where β is the volume concentration expansion 
coefficient, ΔT the change in temperature, Δϕ the 
change in gas volume fraction in the media, L the 
characteristic length scale, and θ the characteristic time 
scale.  The subscripts M and PT refer to the model and 
prototype, respectively.  The determination of the 
characteristic length and time scales is practically 
difficult.  Eq. (25) was suggested by Chen et al. [23].  
It accounts for the bubble buoyancy and thermal 
buoyancy.  Even though the form of correlation seems 
reasonable, it is a new issue of discussion in its early 
stage of development and validation.   
 
 When the bubble generation rate was low, the 
bubble plume was completely pushed downstream 
without the occurrence of backlayering effect, as shown 
in Fig. 12(a).  When the generation rate was slightly 
increased, it is obvious that the bubble plume became 
more vertical and, at the same time, backlayering effect 
formed.  Then, when the generation rate was further 
 8
“Sensitivity calculations of Tunnel Fires Using 
CFD,” Fire and Technology Sec. Qua., 99-119 
(1996).  
16. Karki, K.C., Patankar, S.V., “CFD model for jet 
fan ventilation systems,” the 10th International 
Symposium on Aerodynamics and Ventilation of 
Vehicle Tunnels: Principles, Analysis, and 
Design, edited by A.S. Caserta, Boston, USA, pp. 
355-380 (2000). 
17. Wu, Y., Bakar, M.Z.A., “Control of smoke flow 
in tunnel fires using longitudinal ventilation 
systems - a study of the critical velocity,” Fire 
Safety J, 35(4), 363-390 (2000). 
18. McGrattan, K.B., Baum, H.R., Rehm, R.G., 
“Large eddy simulations of smoke movement,” 
Fire Safety J, 30, pp. 161-178 (1998). 
19. Rehm, R.G., McGrattan, K.B., Baum, H.R., 
Cassel, K.W., “Transport by gravity currents in 
building fires,” Fire Safety Science – 
Proceedings of the Fifth International 
Symposium, March 3-7, 1997, Melbourne, 
Australia, pp. 391-402 (1997). 
20. Zhang, W., Hamer, A., Klassen, M., Carpenter, 
D., Roby, R., “Turbulence statistics in a fire 
room model by large eddy simulation,” Fire 
Safety J, 37(8), 721-752 (2002). 
21. Rehm, R.G., and Baum, H.R., “The equations of 
motion of thermally driven buoyant flows,” 
Journal of Research, National Bureau of 
Standards, 83(3), pp. 297-308, 1978. 
22. Smagorinsky, J., “General circulation 
experiments with the primitive equations. I. The 
basic experiment,” Monthly Weather Review, 91, 
99-164, 1963. 
23. Chen, Z.D., Li, Y., Mahoney, J., “Experimental 
modelling of buoyancy-driven flows in buildings 
using a fine-bubble technique,” Building and 
Environment, 36, 447-455 (2001). 
24. Li, Y., Shing, V.C.W., Chen, Z., “Fine bubble 
modelling of smoke flows,” Fire Safety Journal, 
38, 285-298 (2003). 
25. Kunsch, J.P., “Simple model for control of fire 
gases in a ventilated,” Fire Safety Journal, vol. 
37, 67-81, 2002. 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. Temperature distribution of a tunnel fire at 
different time: (a) 5 sec., (b) 30 sec., and (c) 60 sec. 
 
 
Fig. 2. Temperature distribution in a tunnel of different 
tilted angles: (a) -5°., (b) 0° (horizontal)., and (c) 5°. 
 
 
Fig. 3. Electrolysis of water. 
 10
 
(a) 0° (horizontal) 
 
(b) 5° 
 
(c) 10° 
Fig. 9. The leaving of smoke from the tunnel at the 
right portal after 60 sec after the initiation of 
bubble generation at different tilted angles. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) 5 sec. 
 
(b) 10 sec. 
 
(c) 20 sec. 
 
(d) 30 sec. 
Fig. 10. large pump at 25W bubbles 
 
 
 
