provide knowledge documents based on their case 
profiles; (4) Extract knowledge rules of 
problem-solving situations and actions. Analyze the 
contextual information of problem solving and infer 
the reasonable actions for handling situations based 
on the discovered knowledge rules and relevant 
contextual information; and (5) Develop a prototype 
of knowledge support system for problem solving. 
Keywords: Information System, Knowledge 
Engineering, Knowledge Support, IT Service 
Management, Problem Solving, Text Mining, 
Case-based Reasoning 
1 Background and Research Objective 
Problem-solving is an important process that 
enables corporations to create competitive advantages, 
especially in the manufacturing industry. Case-based 
reasoning (CBR) techniques [6][16][23][29] have 
been widely used to help workers solve problems. 
For example, based on these techniques, a decision 
support system was developed to facilitate 
problem-solving in a complex production process 
[23]. CBR techniques have also been used to 
implement a self-improvement helpdesk service 
system [6], and integrated with the ART-Kohonen 
Neural Network (ART-KNN) to enhance fault 
diagnosis in electric motors [29].  
Conventional CBR approaches focus on 
identifying similar problems without exploring the 
information needs of workers and relevant context of 
situations during problem-solving tasks. 
Problem-solving is a complex process that includes a 
series of uncertain situations and operational actions. 
Moreover, it is usually knowledge intensive and 
workers need to access relevant information in order 
to identify the causes of a situation and take 
appropriate action to solve it. Situation features are 
usually occurred according to the context 
characteristics of problem. Due to the uncertain 
features of situations, several causes and possible 
solutions may exist for a specific situation. For 
example, in a production process, a significant 
decline in performance may be due to poor materials, 
inexperienced workers, or faulty machinery. Thus, 
possible solutions would include replacing the poor 
materials, retraining the workers, or repairing the 
faulty machinery. The causes and possible solutions 
are usually hidden in relevant data resources and 
difficult to extract. In such uncertain environments, 
situation features collected by system are usually 
partial or incomplete. Workers need to use knowledge 
gathered and inferred from relevant context 
information and previous problem-solving experience 
to clarify the causes and take appropriate action 
effectively. Thus, identifying similar cases through 
CBR is not sufficient to solve problems. An effective 
knowledge support system is essential so that 
workers have the information necessary to identify 
the causes of a problem and take appropriate action to 
solve it. 
The research objectives of this work are: (1) 
Designing a effective system framework of providing 
knowledge support for problem solving; (2) 
Investigating how to employ text mining techniques 
to generate case profiles that model the information 
needs of problem solving by analyzing relevant 
documents of historical problem solving cases; (3) 
Investigating how to integrate case-based reasoning 
and text mining to identify similar cases of problem 
solving, and then provide knowledge documents 
based on their case profiles; (4) Investigating how to 
extract knowledge rules of problem-solving situations 
and actions. Analyzing the contextual information of 
problem solving and further investigating how to 
infer the reasonable actions for handling situations 
based on the discovered knowledge rules and relevant 
contextual information; and (5) Developing a 
prototype of knowledge support system for problem 
solving. 
2 Research Results 
In this work, we have developed a novel 
knowledge support system for problem-solving on a 
production-line. Case-based reasoning is used to 
identify similar situations/actions. Information 
retrieval techniques are then applied to discover the 
key terms of a situation/action. The terms form 
situation/action profiles that model the information 
needed to handle a problem. Association rule mining 
and sequential pattern mining are used to discover 
decision-making and dependency knowledge patterns, 
respectively. The discovered situation/action profiles 
and knowledge patterns are used to construct a 
knowledge support network, which forms the basis of 
support for solving problems on a production line.  
3 Related Works 
3.1 ITIL & IT Service Management 
Information Technology Infrastructure Library 
(ITIL) is acknowledged as a Public Domain 
Framework administered by the Office of 
Government Commerce (OGC) in the United 
Kingdom [14]. ITIL provides a best practice 
process-based framework for supporting and 
delivering IT services and in response to the growing 
dependence on IT to meet business needs and goals 
[7]. In general, ITIL describes contents, processes, 
and aims at a high abstraction level and contains no 
information about management architectures and 
tools [11]. 
ITIL has defined several processes of managing IT 
Similarity measure: The cosine formula is widely 
used to measure the degree of similarity between two 
items, x and y, by computing the cosine of the angle 
between their corresponding term vectors xr  and yr , 
which is given by Eq. 2. The degree of similarity is 
higher if the cosine similarity is close to 1. 
yx
yxyxyxsim rr
rrrr •== ),(cosine),(  (2)
4 The system framework of knowledge 
support for problem-solving 
In this section, we describe the proposed system 
framework, including the concepts of the 
problem-solving process, the knowledge required for 
problem-solving, and the proposed knowledge 
support framework. 
4.1 The problem-solving process 
In business enterprises, especially the 
manufacturing industry, various problem situations 
may occur during the production process; for 
example, poor production performance, system 
overload, and low machine utilization. A situation 
denotes an evaluation point to determine the status 
(i.e., desirable or undesirable) of a production process. 
A problem may occur if there is a discrepancy 
between the actual situation and the desired one. For 
example, when the current production output is below 
the desired level, the production line may have some 
problems. Thus, a problem-solving process is often 
initiated to achieve the desired situation. In the 
process, workers take several problem-solving steps 
to determine what action needs to be taken to resolve 
the situation. Such action involves both human 
wisdom and enterprise knowledge. Workers may 
observe a problem situation, collect relevant 
information from the enterprise knowledge repository, 
explore possible causes, and identify operational 
conditions in order to decide appropriate action. 
Moreover, a problem-solving process generally 
consists of levels of progressive sub-problem solving, 
which form different stages of the process. Such 
stage-wise problem-solving reduces the complexity 
of a problem and solves it more effectively. The 
stages of problem-solving in a production process are 
usually pre-determined by experienced workers or 
experts according to the characteristics of the process 
and their experience in solving previous problems. 
4.2 Knowledge requirements for problem-solving 
Situation and action relevant knowledge. In a 
specific stage of problem-solving, a worker can 
access relevant documents associated with the 
problem situation to find the causes. The know-how 
hidden in relevant documents can help workers 
discover the causes of problem situations. These 
relevant documents are defined as situation relevant 
knowledge. After determining the cause of a problem 
situation, workers must decide what action to take. 
They do this by accessing documents related to the 
cause in order to identify the normal 
operational-conditions of the production system, and 
choose an appropriate course of action. 
Context-based inference. For a given problem, a 
situation may occur with various features according 
to the context at that time. Because situation features 
collected by system are usually partial or incomplete, 
a worker can not easily identify current situation. 
Accordingly, inferring more situation features 
according to the context characteristics is important 
in situation identification.  
Context-based situation profile. For specific 
situation, information retrieval techniques are used to 
extract key terms from situation relevant documents. 
The extracted key terms form a profile to represent 
the information needs of workers for handling the 
situation. Moreover, the profile can be generated 
according to the context of the situation and is 
regarded as a context-based situation profile. 
According to certain context, the key terms recorded 
in a context-based situation profile are used to locate 
the relevant documents. The relevant documents are 
recommended as knowledge support to help workers 
take appropriate action for handling the situation in 
certain context.  
Context-based decision-making and dependency 
knowledge. Knowing what action to take according 
to problem situation features is defined as 
context-based decision-making knowledge, which 
can be discovered from the problem-solving logs. 
The context-based decision-making knowledge 
patterns indicate the inferred associations of actions 
and situation features in certain context of the 
problem-solving process. These context-based 
knowledge patterns are generated as knowledge 
support to help workers take appropriate action in 
handling situations. Moreover, in stage-wise 
problem-solving, a situation/action may trigger/affect 
a situation/action in a later stage. Context-based 
dependency knowledge indicates the inferred 
relationships between situation/action features in 
current stage and situations/actions across different 
stages of the whole problem-solving process context. 
Context-based dependency knowledge helps workers 
make appropriate action plans across 
problem-solving stages. 
4.3 Knowledge support framework for 
problem-solving 
Fig. 2: The procedure of the knowledge 
discovery process. 
5.1 Data preprocessing for knowledge discovery 
The data preprocessing module performs data 
cleaning, integration, and transformation for further 
knowledge discovery. The data cleaning task removes 
inconsistent data from the historical log. Each textual 
document is transformed into a term vector. The term 
vectors of accessed documents are then used by the 
profile discovery module to generate situation/action 
profiles. Furthermore, the data records are 
preprocessed to determine the problem-solving stages 
and the subject/attribute values of the 
situations/actions. The extracted values are used to 
identify the situations/actions for case-based 
reasoning. The production process, problem-solving 
process, and the term vectors of accessed documents 
are integrated into the enterprise’s knowledge base. 
5.2 Situation/action identification and case-based 
reasoning 
Each situation or action is a case that is 
characterized by a text description and a set of 
attribute values. The attribute values provide 
additional features, such as the symptoms of a 
situation or the standard operating procedures of an 
action to identify the situation/action case. Both the 
text description and attribute values contribute to 
similarity matching and situation/action identification. 
For historical problem-solving instances, similar 
situation/action cases are transformed into the same 
situation/action identifier to facilitate the mining of 
decision-making and dependency knowledge patterns. 
Moreover, for the target situation/action, namely, the 
case workers are currently handling, the system 
identifies an existing case identifier or retrieves 
similar cases based on CBR. 
Context modeling. The context information is any 
information about an entity status. An entity can be 
the user, physical location, service, or service 
relevant object, etc. Due to the variety of context 
information, it is not easy to represent the complete 
context information of an entity. Therefore, based on 
the problem-solving environment, this work uses a 
modeling mechanism which composes with three 
levels to formalize the context information. Context 
entity level represents the conceptual abstraction of 
context entity spread in a problem-solving 
environment. The context feature in context feature 
level may be predefined by a domain expert that 
shows relevant information of a specific entity. 
Context association level defines the association 
relationship between relevant features and attributes 
of the context entities. Based on context modeling, 
the system proactively collects the relevant context 
entities and features of current situation.  
Context-based inference rule mining. The 
context-based inference rules discovered from 
association rule mining represent the associations of 
situation features and context characteristics. The rule 
format is shown as Eq. 3: 
[featurep …and contextq …] → [featurer] 
[Support = s%, Confidence = c%] 
(3) 
5.3 Discovery of situation/action profiles 
A situation/action profile is also represented as 
a term vector (a feature vector of weighted terms), 
which is derived by analyzing the set of documents 
accessed for handling the situation/action case. Each 
document dj is pre-processed and represented as a 
term vector jd
r
. Let DS denote the set of documents 
accessed to handle the situation/action CS. A centroid 
approach is used to derive the profiling term 
vector SP
r of CS by averaging the term vectors of 
documents in DS. Equation 4 defines the weight of a 
term ki in SP
r
. 
∑
∈
=
Sj Dd
ji
S
Si dkwD
Ckw ),(1),( . (4)
Retrieval of situation/action relevant documents. 
The system recommends/retrieves relevant 
knowledge documents to help workers solve 
problems based on the situation/action profiles. The 
key contents of a codified knowledge document are 
represented as a term vector. The situation/action 
profile of a case CS is expressed as a profiling term 
vector SP
r
. The cosine measure of term vectors is used 
to derive the similarity measure. Let jd
r
be the term 
vector of document dj. The cosine measure of SP
r
and 
jd
r
, cosine( SP
r , jd
r
), is the similarity measure between 
the situation/action and document dj. Documents with 
the top-N similarity measures are selected as relevant 
documents. 
5.4 Discovery of knowledge patterns 
Generic problem-solving process. Recall that a 
Situation Situation ActionSituation Action Situation Action Situation Action Action
NM Stage EI Stage EM Stage QI Stage MM Stage
Water supply problem-solving process
NM_S7
NM_S6
NM_A5
NM_A7
NM_A3
EI_S1
EI_S4
EI_S2
[EI_S5 Situation Profile]
  Location = 8C, System = DI, and Issue: Water Supply Quantity  
  Abnormal
[Relevant Situation Profile(s) ]
  Location = 8D, System = DI, and Issue: Water Supply Quantity 
  Abnormal
[Relevant enterprise document set]
  8C:
  1. DI analytical system water quantity recording
  2. DI GCHC system water quantity recycling
  8D:
  1. 8D UF Flush water quantity recycling
  2. 8D DI system waste water quantity evaluation
  3. ...
documents are recommended according to the cosine 
measure of the term vectors of the documents and the 
situation/action profiles.  
Moreover, the system suggests possible actions 
for handling the current situation according to the 
decision-making knowledge patterns. Note that the 
actions in the decision-making patterns (i.e., situation 
=> action) whose left-hand side match the current 
situation are suggested and ranked according to the 
confidence values of the rules. Dependency 
knowledge patterns are also suggested to help 
workers predict a possible chain reaction across 
different stages and develop appropriate action plans.  
 
 
Fig. 3: Situation profile and relevant documents 
7 System Implementation 
We developed a prototype system to 
demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed 
knowledge support system for problem-solving. The 
problem-solving knowledge support system is 
integrated with the knowledge support network to 
provide more effective knowledge support for 
browsing problem-solving knowledge patterns. The 
interface of the problem-solving knowledge support 
system includes the system frames for user login, 
search engine, and user-guide.  
Fig. 4: A generic water supply problem-solving 
process 
8 Discussion 
In this project , we proposed a novel knowledge 
support framework for problem-solving. Association 
rule mining is used to discover context-based 
inference rules from historical problem-solving logs. 
The discovered patterns identify frequent associations 
between context information and situation features, 
and therefore can be used to infer more situation 
features. By considering the inferred situation 
features, case-based reasoning can then be employed 
to identify similar situations effectively. Moreover, 
we employ information retrieval techniques to extract 
context-based situation profiles to model workers' 
information needs when handling problem situations 
in certain context. Effective knowledge support can 
thus be facilitated by providing workers with 
situation-relevant information based on the profiles.  
References  
[1] Abecker, A., Bernardi, A., Maus, H., Sintek, 
M., & Wenzel, C. (2000). Information supply 
for business processes: coupling workflow with 
document analysis and information retrieval. 
Knowledge-Based Systems, 13(1), 271-284. 
[2] Agostini, A., Albolino, S., De Michelis, G., De 
Paoli, F., & Dondi, R. (2003). Stimulating 
knowledge discovery and sharing. Proceedings 
of the International ACM Conference on 
Supporting Group Work, Sanibel Island, 
Florida, USA, November, 248-257. 
[3] Allen, J., Blaylock, N., & Ferguson, G. (2002). 
A Problem Solving Model for Collaborative 
Agents. Proceedings of the first international 
joint conference on Autonomous agents and 
multiagent systems, Bologna, Italy, July, 
774-781. 
[4] Baeza-Yates, R., & Ribeiro-Neto, B. (1999). 
Modern Information Retrieval, New York: The 
ACM Press. 
[5] Bon, J. V., (2002). The Guide to IT Service 
Management, 1, London: Addison –Wesley. 
[6] Chang, K. H., Raman, P., Carlisle, W. H., & 
Cross, J. H. (1996). A Self-improving helpdesk 
service system using case-based reasoning 
techniques. Computer in Industry, 30, 113-125. 
[7] Chiu, D. & Tsui, D. L. Modeling the Enterprise 
IT Infrastructure an IT Service Management 
Approach. 
[8] Davies, N.J., Duke, A., & Stonkus, A. (2003). 
OntoShare: Evolving ontologies in a 
knowledge sharing system, In Davies, NJ, 
Fensel, D. van Harmelen, F. (Eds.): Towards 
the semantic Web – Ontology-based knowledge 
management. Wiley, London UK, 161-176. 
[9] Fenstermacher, Kurt D. (2002). Process-Aware 
knowledge retrieval. Proceedings of the 35th 
Hawaii International Conference on System 
Sciences, Big Island, Hawaii, USA, 209-217. 
[10] Guardati, S. (1998) RBCShell: A tool for the 
construction of systems with case-based 
