 國科會補助提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫成果完整報告 
 
（計畫名稱） 
 
 
計畫類別：□ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC  －    －  －   －   － 
執行期間：   年  月  日至   年  月  日 
 
計畫主持人： 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
處理方式：完整報告內容因涉及專利、技術移轉案或其他智慧財產權，不予公
開。 
          
執行單位： 
 
中   華   民   國     年     月      日 
 
 
附件一 
之輔助工具來闡釋其教學內容，也因此現場須有一位專業攝影人員來追蹤其講述內容，如
授課者以部份黑板描述其內容時，此專業攝影人員必須將鏡頭具焦於其手寫內容，方可不
致遠端登入者無法辨識其講述內容，如此一來此專業攝影人員必須隨時追蹤授課者是否須
手寫呈現其講述內容，不但造成人力耗費、成本提高，且即使是專業攝影人員亦有其發生
誤差的可能性。因此本研究將著重於開發自動化追蹤與擷取內容機制，此機制之運作預期
可取代現場專業攝影人員，亦即當黑板描述內容發生化時，可自動化聚焦於授課者手寫部
份，此一技術必須判斷黑板描述內容發生變化時才聚焦，且摒除雜訊如授課者之移動。本
研究能精確地判定授課者在黑板上新增或修改之內容，加以驅動控制攝影機之基座對焦並
擷取其內容，使遠端登入者可如置身於現場一般。 
 
關鍵詞：視訊教學、動態物件追蹤、影像處理 
 
Abstract 
As the Internet becomes more and more popular and most families are connected to the 
Internet through a wide-band media, many activities or applications become more achievable on a 
remote personal computer through the Internet, e.g. on-line games. Another important application 
is the on-line video/audio education system because it can not only record the content of the 
teaching but also provide a learning and interactive platform for remote students. Generally, there 
are two types of on-line education system, i.e. the real-time and static types. In the real-time type, 
the teaching normally takes place in a classroom and the video/audio signals are synchronously 
transferred to the on-line students. In the static type, however, the teaching is recorded in a studio 
and the recording is transferred to the on-line students upon requesting. The static type presents a 
better visual effect; however, lack of interaction is its shortcoming. The real-time type is more 
dynamic since the teacher must adjust to the class responses, where spontaneous writing on the 
black board is frequently conducted for interpreting the teaching content. Therefore, it requires a 
professional photographer on site for shooting the teacher’s writing on the board in order for the 
on-line student to view more clearly. Having a photographer on site is costly. Moreover, the 
photographer must track the teacher’s movements at all times so errors could happen. The focus 
of this project, therefore, is to develop an automatic tracking system for replacing the human 
photographer. The system is expected to drive the CCD and the base for getting a closed view 
when the board is written by the teacher such that the on-line students can see clearly as if they 
were in the class. 
 
Keywords: On-line education system, CCD 
 
人才培育成果說明： 
 
1. 本研究使用之資料模式乃以即時影像為基礎，若干影像處理技術將被探討，測試
與使用在影像處理技術日新月異的今天，尤其在多媒體普遍被使用的環境下，許
多應用領域以即時影像作為基礎。藉此培養參與人員影像處理的基礎概念及能力。 
2. 在使用即時影像追蹤移動物體後，必須驅動攝影機作四個自由度的旋轉，含俯視、
