 2
A New Entity Similarity Measurement based on 
Automatic Featuring for Ontology Mapping 
Feng-Hsu Wang 
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering 
Ming Chuan University 
Taoyuan County, Taiwan 
fhwang@mail.mcu.edu.tw  
Jia-He Jo 
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering 
Ming Chuan University 
Taoyuan County, Taiwan 
joujiahe@gmail.com 
 
Abstract—Ontology has been one of the best tools to express knowledge, such as classification knowledge of resources on the 
Web. To facilitate the integration of learning resources categorized under different ontology representations, the techniques 
of ontology mapping can be applied. Though many algorithms and systems have been proposed for ontology mapping, they 
do not have an automatic weighting strategy on class features to automate the ontology mapping process and improve the 
overall mapping effectiveness. A novel method of computing the feature weights is proposed. The results show that it makes 
the ontology mapping process more automatic while retaining satisfying accuracy. 
Keywords-Ontology; Semantic Web; Ontology Mapping; Feature Selection 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
Ontology has become the one of the best tools for knowledge representation; it is also the foundation of 
semantic web technology. For example, W3C (World Wide Web Consortium) has announced many languages, 
such as RDF (Resource Description Framework) and OWL (Web Ontology Language), to represent ontology. 
There are also several languages developed and used by other organizations like CycL, DOGMA, F-Logic, 
and so on.  
Applications of ontology can be found in many fields, such as artificial intelligence, software engineering, 
library science and semantic web. In particular, ontology has been used to express classification knowledge of 
learning resources on the Web [30]. To facilitate the integration of learning resources categorized under 
different ontology representations, the techniques of ontology mapping can be applied.  
Many approaches have been developed for ontology mapping, which is the most fundamental issue of 
ontology integration [1]. In particular, entity similarity measurement is the core issue of ontology mapping. In 
the literature, many similarity measurements have been proposed, which can be roughly categorized into 
terminology-based, structure-based, and semantic-based approaches [2]. In addition, the process of ontology 
mapping can be classified into manual, semi-automatic and automatic ones [22].  
In this subsection, three ontology mapping systems, Lily [27], ASMOV [12] and RiMOM [17] that are the 
top-three ranked systems in 2009 OAEI Campaign, are introduced. These systems can clarify the main 
features of techniques of ontology mapping used today. 
The basic idea of Lily [27] is using the information effectively and rightly. It uses several novel and efficient 
matching techniques to find alignments of entities in ontology, including Generic Ontology Matching (GOM), 
Large Scale Ontology Matching (LOM), Semantic Ontology Matching (SOM) and Mapping Debugging (MD). 
Specifically, Lily tried to capture the meanings of entities accurately and used them to remedy the false parts 
in alignment results. The semantics are stored as a semantic sub-graph which is an n-size graph that can give 
precise descriptions of entities. As a result, similarity between entities is computed based on similarity 
between the sub-graphs. In addition, Lily employed a novel method [28], which uses negative anchors and 
positive anchors to predict which pairs can be ignored in the later matching computing. Another 
semantic-based matching [16] is proposed that is based on the idea to gain the semantics of ontology through 
Web search engines. Finally Lily used a technique called ontology mapping debugging to improve the 
alignment results [29]. During the debugging phase, several types of mapping errors, such as redundant and 
inconsistent mappings, can be detected and removed. More importantly, they can be repaired automatically or 
presented to users asking for revising suggestions. 
The system of ASMOV [12] is an ontology mapping system that calculates the similarity between entities 
iteratively by analyzing features of different categories, such as lexical, internal structure, external structure 
and individual. Furthermore, thesauruses are also used to improve the results of lexical similarity calculation. 
Finally, a single similarity value is obtained through a weighted combination of the measures calculated on the 
corresponding features. Again, the weights have been optimized manually for the OAEI campaign benchmark 
tests. 
The system of RiMOM [17] is a multi-strategy ontology mapping system having more than eight alignment 
strategies. Hence, the same problem of how to choose and combine different strategies effectively applies to 
RiMON too.  
Specifically, given two ontology representations, O1 and O2, there are three factors dominating the strategy 
selection in RiMOM: 
(1)  , where #c1 and #c2 represent the number of classes belonging to 
O1 and O2, respectively, and #same_labels represents the number of classes that have the same label.  
ሺ2ሻ  , where #non_leaf1 and #non_leaf2 represent 
the number of classes with sub-classes belonging to O1 and O2, respectively, and #common_classes is 
the number of classes that have the same number of sub-classes and the same depth from root. 
ሺ3ሻ   ,  where  #meaning_labels  is  the  number  of  labels  with  the 
same meaning found in thesauruses and #entities is the number of entities. 
The strategies implemented in RiMOM were selected by heuristic rules. The similarity strategies implemented 
in RiMOM include: 
 4
"uniqueness" of a feature that differentiates the influences those features may have on class similarity. 
A. Semantics of Features 
There are many types of features in ontology, such as label, comment, property, relation (super-class and 
sub-class), and instances. The significance of a feature in distinguishing entities is calculated as the 
"uniqueness" of the feature. Suppose that a feature is very unique in its ontology, and it is found that another 
class with the same feature exists in another ontology representation, then, it makes sense to say that the two 
entities are very likely equivalent. For example, assume "human" is the only animal that can think in the 
world, then we can easily identify the "human" class in animal ontology by seeking classes along the "think" 
feature. On the other hand, instances of people will become indistinguishable through the "think" feature in 
human ontology because every instance of people has the think feature enabled.  
To facilitate a better understanding of the uniqueness of a feature, the "commonness" of a feature is first 
introduced. The commonness of a feature between two entities c1 and c2 is defined as the similarity between 
the associated semantics of the two entities with regard to the feature. Different types of features have 
different forms of semantics. For example, for string-typed features such as "label" and "comment", the 
associated semantics could be a set of synonyms of the words in the label string, while the associated 
semantics of a relational feature could be a set of classes getting involved through the relation. In the 
following, let value(c, f) denote the value of a feature f on a class c, and let sem(f, c) denote the semantics 
associated with a feature f of a class c. Specifically, for a string-typed feature f, its commonness between 
entities c1 and c2 is defined as: 
 .           (1) 
where sem(f, c1) and sem(f, c2) denote the set of synonyms associated with the words in value(c1, f ) and 
value(c2, f ), respectively. On the other hand, for a restriction feature f, its commonness between c1 and c2 is 
defined as: 
  .           (2) ⎩⎨
⎧ ==
otherwise0
)2(),1( if1)2,1(
,fcvaluefcvalue
ccfCom
Finally, for a relation feature such as "super-class", "sub-class" and "instances", its value is seen as a set of 
entities derived from the feature, and therefore called a set-typed feature. The commonness of a relation 
feature f between c1 and c2 is defined as: 
.           (3) 
In the following, we illustrate how to apply the concept of feature commonness to compute the feature weight. 
Assume O is an ontology representation, C is a set of entities belonging to O and F is a set of features on C, 
including "label", "comment", "super-classes", "restrictions", "relations" and "instances". The commonness of 
a feature is defined as: 
           (4) 
where n is the number of classes in C, ci and cj are classes of C. The weight of a feature f is defined as: 
 6
. Y)=
(3) if X and Y are sets of entities, then . 
As an illustrative example, consider the synonym ontology representation, as shown in Fig. 1. The similarity 
e entity om the source ontology and the entity "Book" from the target ontology is 
computed as below: 
between th "Book" fr
 
 
where the SimilarityOnSuperClass, SimilarityOnLabel and SimilarityOnSubClass are the class similarities 
(SIMk) computed through the features, super_class, label and sub_class, respectively, multiplied by the 
corresponding feature similarities (Simk) and feature weights (W).  
 
 
Figure 1.  Sample ontology representations. 
The iteration process stops when the latest calculated alignment function Ak+1 and the similarity function 
Simk+1 are almost the same as Ak and Simk, respectively. Specifically, the alignment algorithm is delineated as 
below: 
PROCEDURE: OntologyMapping 
INPUT  : Ontology O1, O2 
 ComputeWeight(O1)  
ent(O1, O2) 
Similarity(O1, O2, A0) 
OUTPUT: Alignment A 
BEGIN 
W1 =
W2 = ComputeWeight(O2) 
A0 = ComputeInitialAlignm
Sim0 = ComputeInitial
k = 1 
 8
 10
easure. As 
gets the 5th ranked place in terms of the F-measure among these systems. 
B. Comparison with Other Systems 
In OAEI 2009 Campaign, there are a total of 14 participants joining the benchmark tests. Fig. 2 shows the 
comparison between our approach and these systems with the H-mean of precision, recall, and F-m
Figure 2 shows, our approach 
Nevertheless, we would like to mention that our approach is just a light implementation without using 
thesauruses and other advanced processing techniques such as the alignment debugging as used in Lily [27].  
 
 
Figure 2.  Comparison with Other Systems 
We also investigate different aspects of the proposed alignment algorithm by conducting experiments on its 
different variations. The first is the “Straight” variation of the algorithm that runs with the initial alignment 
only. In the “Iterative” variation nment plus iterative phases yet without , the algorithm runs with the initial alig
the automatic featuring phase, assuming all features have the same weight of 1. Finally, for the 
“Iterative-Weighted” variation, the algorithm runs with all the three phases of initial alignment, iteration and 
automatic featuring. Mapping from an entity to another is reported if the similarity between the two entities 
exceeds a minimum threshold. The minimum similarity threshold δ is set to 0.1 for all experiments. Fig. 3 
shows the test results obtained by applying the different variations of the proposed alignment algorithm on 
109 test cases of OAEI benchmarks.  
 
 
Figure 3.  Results of the alignment algorithms on OAEI benchmarks. 
As shown in Fig. 3, the initial alignments computed by our method are comparable to the other two variations 
 附件二 
 12
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊 合評估。
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷
 
請就研
發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■  達成目標 
 
□ 其他原因
說明： 
2. 發表或申請專利等情形： 
表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
請中 □無 
已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
已發 omputing and Advanced 
Inf 更完整的實驗數據，準備投稿國際期刊。 
 研究成果在學術期刊
論文：■已發表 □未發
專利 □已獲得 □申：
技轉：□
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
表在 7th International Conference on Networked C
ormation Management，現正整理
3. 影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
過結合術語和結構的特性來計算概念相似度，其中特別是應用了資訊熵的概
請依學術成就、技術創新、社會
值（簡要敘述成果所代表
500 字為限） 
知識本體一直都是作為知識表達的最佳工具，最近更成為語意網
（Semantic Web）的核心基礎。有關知識本體的整合已成為近年來相當受到
關心的議題，其中的知識本體對映（Ontology Mapping）更是基本且重要的研
究問題。本研究發展一個自動化程度高且更加精準的知識本體對映方法，透
念來判定一個知識本體裡的各式關係的權重，以作為計算概念結構性相似度
的依據。除此之外，我們運用智慧型代理人（Intelligent Agent）的技術來開
發此知識本體的對映系統，並實證這樣的方式有助於更準確的整合不同的知
識本體。 
 
  14
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
日期：100 年 08 月 09 日 
 
一、參加會議經過 
2011 年 路計算與高等資訊管理國際研討會（7th International Conference on 
Networked Computing and Advanced Information Management），是國際知名之電腦資訊科
技研討會之一，主要供全球各地研究者與廠商交換有關網路資訊科技以及應用等主題上最新的研
究、發展與應用的資訊。今年於 2011 年 06 月 21 日至 06 月 23 日在韓國慶州舉辦。此次有幸能參
加此會議發表論文並主持一場論文發表(Day 2, Session 8, 15:50~16:00)，除了呈現研究成果與國際
學者交 中學習到更多更新的訊息，帶回國內與有志於相關研究的先進們分享。 
大會在 3 天議程中，安排了兩場專題演講（Keynote Speeches），邀請了 Dr. Youngsuk Cho 與 Dr. 
Jongjean Kang，分別就 Design Patterns 以及資訊的創意產業發表演說，從學術與產業的角度，剖
析資訊科技的遠景。筆者論文「A New Entity Similarity Measurement based on Automatic Featuring for 
Ontology Mapping，則是安排在第 2 天(22 日)下午的第四場次發表。同時，也應大會的邀請，主持
了第二天下午第 kenote 
spee 論文發表場次，並與其他多位來自日本、大陸、歐洲與美國等地的研究學者交換意見，
受益良多。 
為期三天的論文研討中，筆者參加了多場有興趣的的 kenote speech 以及論文發表場次，其中
特別是參加 Dr. Youngsuk Cho 的 special talk：" Application of Design Patterns for a Variety of Software 
計畫編號 NSC 99-2221-E-130 -015 - 
計畫名稱 之研究 一個基於關聯式特徵選取法的知識本體對映
出國人 王 服務機構及職稱 
銘傳大學資訊工程學系暨研究
所 
員姓名 豐緒 
會議時間 
0 年 06 月
21
100 年 06 月
2 日 
會議地點 
韓國,慶州 10 日至 
3
會議名稱 7th International Conference on Networked Computing and 
ation Management 
 
Advanced Inform
發表論文題目 A New imilarity Measurement based on Automatic Featuring 
for Ontology Mapping 
 Entity S
附件四 
第 7 屆網
流之外，更能從會議
8 場次的論文發表。在為期三天的論文研討中，筆者參加了多場有興趣的
ch 以及
二、與會心得 
在
  16
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下赴國外(或大陸地區)出差或研習心得報告 
                 日期：                       年   月   日 
一、國外(大陸)研究過程 
二、研究成果 
三、建議 
四、其他 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
計畫編號 NSC  －    －  －    －    － 
計畫名稱  
出國人員
姓名  
服務機構  
及職稱 
出國時間  年 月 日至  年 月 日 出國地點 
 
附件五 
7th International Conference on Networked Computing and Advanced Information Management, 
Gyeongju, Korea 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心
得報告 
                           
日期：100 年 08 月 09 日 
計畫編號 NSC 99-2221-E-130 -015 - 
計畫名稱 一個基於關聯式特徵選取法的知識本體對映之研究 
出國人員
姓名 王豐緒 
服務機
構及職
稱 
銘傳大學資訊工程學系暨
研究所 
會議時間 
100 年 06
月 21日至 
100 年 06
月 23 日 
會議地
點 
韓國,慶州 
會議名稱 7th International Conference on Networked Computing 
and Advanced Information Management 
發表論文
題目 
A New Entity Similarity Measurement based on 
Automatic Featuring for Ontology Mapping 
一、參加會議經過 
2011 年第 7 屆網路計算與高等資訊管理國際研討會（7th International 
Conference on Networked Computing and Advanced Information 
Management），是國際知名之電腦資訊科技研討會之一，主要供全球各地
研究者與廠商交換有關網路資訊科技以及應用等主題上最新的研究、發展與
應用的資訊。今年於 2011 年 06 月 21 日至 06 月 23 日在韓國慶州舉辦。此
次有幸能參加此會議發表論文並主持一場論文發表 (Day 2, Session 8, 
15:50~16:00)，除了呈現研究成果與國際學者交流之外，更能從會議中學習
到更多更新的訊息，帶回國內與有志於相關研究的先進們分享。 
大會在 3 天議程中，安排了兩場專題演講（Keynote Speeches），邀請了
Dr. Youngsuk Cho 與 Dr. Jongjean Kang，分別就 Design Patterns 以及資訊的
創意產業發表演說，從學術與產業的角度，剖析資訊科技的遠景。筆者論文
「A New Entity Similarity Measurement based on Automatic Featuring for 
Ontology Mapping，則是安排在第 2 天(22 日)下午的第四場次發表。同時，
 
7th International Conference on Networked Computing and Advanced Information Management, 
Gyeongju, Korea 
 
 
A New Entity Similarity Measurement 
based on Automatic Featuring for 
Ontology Mapping 
Feng-Hsu Wang 
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering 
Ming Chuan University 
Taoyuan County, Taiwan 
fhwang@mail.mcu.edu.tw 
Jia-He Jo 
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering 
Ming Chuan University 
Taoyuan County, Taiwan 
joujiahe@gmail.com 
 
Abstract—Ontology has been one of the best tools to express knowledge, such as classification 
knowledge of resources on the Web. To facilitate the integration of learning resources 
categorized under different ontology representations, the techniques of ontology mapping can be 
applied. Though many algorithms and systems have been proposed for ontology mapping, they 
do not have an automatic weighting strategy on class features to automate the ontology mapping 
process and improve the overall mapping effectiveness. A novel method of computing the feature 
weights is proposed. The results show that it makes the ontology mapping process more 
automatic while retaining satisfying accuracy. 
Keywords-Ontology; Semantic Web; Ontology Mapping; Feature Selection 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
Ontology has become the one of the best tools for knowledge representation; it is also the foundation 
of semantic web technology. For example, W3C (World Wide Web Consortium) has announced many 
languages, such as RDF (Resource Description Framework) and OWL (Web Ontology Language), to 
represent ontology. There are also several languages developed and used by other organizations like 
CycL, DOGMA, F-Logic, and so on.  
Applications of ontology can be found in many fields, such as artificial intelligence, software 
engineering, library science and semantic web. In particular, ontology has been used to express 
 
7th International Conference on Networked Computing and Advanced Information Management, 
Gyeongju, Korea 
 
 
(2) External Structure Comparison: Compare the entity structures formed by relational entities, 
such as a hierarchical structure. 
(3) Internal Structure Comparison: Compare the internal structure of entities, such as the domains 
and values of entity properties. 
(4) Extensional Comparison: Compare the extensional structure of entities, such as the set of 
instances of entities.  
(5) Semantic Comparison: Compare the semantic interpretations of entities. 
An ontology mapping system can also be single-strategy or multi-strategy. In multi-strategy systems, 
different similarity measurements need to be aggregated appropriately into a single similarity value. 
Most approaches use a sigmoid function [17] as the aggregation function to combine various sources of 
measurements of different importance. The weights assigned to the sources of measurements can be 
obtained experimentally or given by human experts. However, it is either cost consuming or unreliable 
to determine a proper set of weights through experiments or human intuition. 
In this subsection, three ontology mapping systems, Lily [27], ASMOV [12] and RiMOM [17] that 
are the top-three ranked systems in 2009 OAEI Campaign, are introduced. These systems can clarify the 
main features of techniques of ontology mapping used today. 
The basic idea of Lily [27] is using the information effectively and rightly. It uses several novel and 
efficient matching techniques to find alignments of entities in ontology, including Generic Ontology 
Matching (GOM), Large Scale Ontology Matching (LOM), Semantic Ontology Matching (SOM) and 
Mapping Debugging (MD). Specifically, Lily tried to capture the meanings of entities accurately and 
used them to remedy the false parts in alignment results. The semantics are stored as a semantic 
sub-graph which is an n-size graph that can give precise descriptions of entities. As a result, similarity 
between entities is computed based on similarity between the sub-graphs. In addition, Lily employed a 
novel method [28], which uses negative anchors and positive anchors to predict which pairs can be 
ignored in the later matching computing. Another semantic-based matching [16] is proposed that is 
based on the idea to gain the semantics of ontology through Web search engines. Finally Lily used a 
technique called ontology mapping debugging to improve the alignment results [29]. During the 
debugging phase, several types of mapping errors, such as redundant and inconsistent mappings, can be 
detected and removed. More importantly, they can be repaired automatically or presented to users asking 
for revising suggestions. 
The system of ASMOV [12] is an ontology mapping system that calculates the similarity between 
entities iteratively by analyzing features of different categories, such as lexical, internal structure, 
external structure and individual. Furthermore, thesauruses are also used to improve the results of lexical 
similarity calculation. Finally, a single similarity value is obtained through a weighted combination of 
the measures calculated on the corresponding features. Again, the weights have been optimized 
manually for the OAEI campaign benchmark tests. 
 
7th International Conference on Networked Computing and Advanced Information Management, 
Gyeongju, Korea 
 
ሺ6ሻ Strategy Combination: While each strategy is performed independently, each 
measurement should be combined together with appropriate weights for every entity. For 
Vector Similarity based strategy, the weights are always one while for the WordNet and 
 
 
Edit‐distance strategies, the weights are generated by a sigmod function. 
(7) Similarity Propagation Strategy: Inspired by similarity flooding ሾ19ሿ there are three 
propagation strategies in RiMOM, namely class‐to‐class propagation ሺCCPሻ strategy, 
property‐to‐property propagation ሺPPPሻ strategy and class‐to‐ property ሺCPPሻ strategy. 
The basic idea is to propagate the similarity to entities pairs through relations, such as 
sub‐class‐of, super‐class‐of, sub‐property‐of and super‐property‐of.  
(8) Indirect Matching Strategy: Sometimes, it is difficult to match entities directly from both source 
and target ontology representations. However, if both of them are of the same domain, it is 
possible to match them with a third ontology. So, RiMOM can input the third ontology for 
indirect matching. 
III. THE METHOD 
The ontology mapping problem addressed in this research comprises the mapping of entities 
including classes and features (like properties and relations) from a source ontology to a target ontology 
representation. The intuition of this research is that similarity between two entities depends not only on 
the two entities themselves but also on other entities getting involved through relational features. For 
example, when calculating the similarity between classes "bird" and "horse", the feature "breathe" 
connects the two entities to "air", which should contribute to some degree to the similarity between 
"bird" and "horse". On the other hand, the feature "travel-method" connects them to "fly" and "walk", 
respectively, which would reduce the similarity between "bird" and "horse". Although being similar to 
the idea of similarity flooding [19] and Similarity Propagation in RiMOM, they do not have a proper 
way to distinguish the importance of those features on the similarity between entities. In the following, 
we present a featuring method based on "uniqueness" of a feature that differentiates the influences those 
features may have on class similarity. 
A. Semantics of Features 
There are many types of features in ontology, such as label, comment, property, relation (super-class 
and sub-class), and instances. The significance of a feature in distinguishing entities is calculated as the 
"uniqueness" of the feature. Suppose that a feature is very unique in its ontology, and it is found that 
another class with the same feature exists in another ontology representation, then, it makes sense to say 
that the two entities are very likely equivalent. For example, assume "human" is the only animal that can 
think in the world, then we can easily identify the "human" class in animal ontology by seeking classes 
along the "think" feature. On the other hand, instances of people will become indistinguishable through 
the "think" feature in human ontology because every instance of people has the think feature enabled.  
7th International Conference on Networked Computing and Advanced Information Management, 
Gyeongju, Korea 
 
 
B. Similarity Measurement 
After working out the feature weights for entities in two ontology representations separately, the 
similarity between classes can be computed by aggregating the similarities contributed by different 
features with these feature weights. Similarly, the similarity between features can be computed by 
aggregating the similarities contributed by different properties with the property weights. Classes and 
features are mutually influenced in the similarity computation. Specifically, classes are described by a 
set of features, therefore the similarity between classes should consider the feature similarity. On the 
other hand, the domain and/or range of a feature may refer to classes, and hence the similarity between 
features should consider class similarity. In this paper, we adopt the iterative algorithm in ASMOV [12] 
to do the ontology mapping work.  
Consider the ontology mapping problem involving a source ontology O1 ={C1, F1} and a target 
ontology O2={C2, F2}, where C1 and C2 are sets of classes, and F1 and F2 are sets of features. Let e1i and 
e2j be entities, either classes or features, belonging to O1 and O2, respectively. As this research adopts an 
iterative algorithm to compute the similarity between two entities, we define the following notations to 
facilitate the presentation of the algorithm. Let Simk(e1i, e2j) denote the degree that entity e1j is similar to 
e2i, calculated at the kth iteration, and let ISimk(e1i, e2j) be the similarity between e1i and e2j, calculated at 
the kth iteration. Then 
2
))1,2()2,1((
)2,1(
i
e
j
e
k
Sim
j
e
i
ekSim
j
e
i
e
k
ISim
∩
= . (6) 
Let e d a  set  e1i b  an entity describe  by the fe ture
ܨሺ݁ ሻ ଵ݂ሺ݁௜
ଵሻ, ଶ݂ሺ݁௜
ଵሻ, … , ௟݂ሺ݁௜
ଵሻ ൐,  ௜ଵ ൌ൏
n  let j b er entity described by the feature set  where ௧݂ א ܨଵ, t=1,.., l, a d e2 e anoth
 ܨሺ ௝݁
ଶሻ ൌ൏ ௝݁
ଶሻ, ݃ଶ൫ ௝݁
ଶ൯, … , ݃௠ሺ ௝݁
ଶሻ ൐,  ଵ݃ሺ
where ݃௧ א ܨଶ, t=1,.., m. Finally, let Ak(e1i )=e2j be the alignment results calculated at the kth iteration 
such that ISimk(e1i, e2j) = ݉ܽݔ௠ ܫܵ݅݉௞ሺ݁௜ଵ, ݁௠ଶ ሻ . To compute Simk+1(e
1
i, e2j), let 
ܸܨ ൌ൏ ܣ௞ሺ ଵ݃ሻ, ܣ௞ሺ݃ଶሻ, … , ܣ௞ሺ݃௠ሻ ൐ be the alignment of features from ܨ൫ ௝݁ଶ൯ to Fሺ݁௜ଵሻ. Then we 
have  
ܵ݅݉௞ାଵሺ݁௜
ଵ, ௝݁
ଶሻ  ൌ
∑ ௐ೑ൈௌ௜௠ೖሺ௙, ஺ೖ
షభሺ௙ሻሻ೑אೇಷתಷሺ೐೔
భሻ ൈௌூெೖሺ௩௔௟௨௘ሺ௘೔
భ,௙ሻ,௩௔௟௨௘ሺ௘ೕ
మ, ஺ೖ
షభሺ௙ሻሻ ሻ
∑ ௐ೑೑אಷሺ೐೔
భሻ
 (7) 
where the value of SIMk depends on the types of its arguments. Specifically, 
(1) if X and Y are of different types, SIMk(X, Y) = 0.  
(2) if X and Y are of the same literal type such as "string" and "number", SIMk(X, Y) =1 if X = Y; 
 
7th International Conference on Networked Computing and Advanced Information Management, 
Gyeongju, Korea 
 
 
A0 = ComputeInitialAlignment(O1, O2) 
Sim0 = ComputeInitialSimilarity(O1, O2, A0) 
k = 1 
WHILE k ≠-1 
FOR ei in O1 
  FOR ej in O2 
     PUT(Simk, ComputeSimilarity(ei, ej, Ak-1)) 
  END_FOR 
END_FOR 
Ak = GetAlignment(Simk) 
IF Simk ≒ Simk-1 AND Ak ≒ Ak-1 THEN 
  k = -1 
ELSE 
  k = k +1 
 END_IF 
END_WHILE 
OUTPUT(A) 
END_BEGIN 
END_PROCEDURE 
 
As the pseudo-code shows, if the number of entities in O1 and O2 are n and m, respectively, the time 
complexity of the algorithm is O(n×m). Moreover, the initial alignment of classes are computed based 
on only the primitive features, such as label, comment, super-class, and sub-class, while the initial 
alignment of features are computed based on the domain and range, and relations such as sub-property 
and super-property, given the initial alignment of classes. 
IV. EXPERIMENTS AND COMPARISON 
In this evaluation, we applied the OAEI 2009 Campaign benchmarks to test our approach. The 
criteria exploited to evaluate the performance of an ontology mapping approach include precision rate, 
recall rate and F-measure. The evaluation is done by using a gold standard alignment derived by human 
experts and comparing it with the alignment extracted by the algorithm. The precision rate is defined as 
the percentage of correct correspondences that exist within the extracted alignment, and the recall rate is 
defined as the percentage of correct correspondences that exist within the standard alignment. The 
F-measure is defined as the harmonic mean of the precision and recall rates, as shown in (9). 
  ݌ ൌ |ୣ୶୲୰ୟୡ୲ୣୢתୱ୲ୟ୬ୢୟ୰ୢ|
|ୣ୶୲୰ୟୡ୲ୣୢ|
, ݎ ൌ
|ୣ୶୲୰ୟୡ୲ୣୢתୱ୲ୟ୬ୢୟ୰ୢ|
|ୱ୲ୟ୬ୢୟ୰ୢ|
, 
 
 ܨ ൌ ଶ௣௥
௣ା௥
. (9) 
7th International Conference on Networked Computing and Advanced Information Management, 
Gyeongju, Korea 
 
 
 
Figure 3.  Results of the alignment algorithms on OAEI benchmarks. 
As shown in Fig. 3, the initial alignments computed by our method are comparable to the other two 
variations of the algorithm for most of the test cases. Nevertheless, the proposed iterative and automatic 
featuring strategy performed quite well in several cases, such as cases 202, 202-8, 249, 253, 259-8, 259 
and 258-8. This shows that the iterative-weighted version of the algorithm always performs better than 
the iterative one on the test cases.  
V. CONCLUSION 
In this research, we proposed the idea of automatic featuring to compute the relative importance of 
features by considering the information provided by ontology. The automatic featuring is based on how 
unique a feature is in distinguishing entities. It is found that the weighted features can be used to 
improve ontology alignments. Moreover, it is shown that our approach is competitive with other existing 
systems. Nevertheless, there exist several extensions for the current implementation of our algorithm. 
For example, the current one is a light implementation without other advancement techniques like 
thesauruses and debugging of alignments. Hence, one future work is to make our system more robust 
and effective by adding the thesaurus support and debugging capability. Moreover, the large-scale 
dataset process ability will also be a concerned issue in our feature work. 
REFERENCES 
[1] G. Bisson, "Learning in FOL with similarity measure," Proceedings of 10th American Association for Artificial 
Intelligence Conference, San-Jose (CA US), 1992, pp. 82–87. 
[2] R. Dieng and S. Hug, "Comparison of personal ontologies represented through casual graphs," Proceedings of 13th 
European Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Brighton (UK), 1998, pp. 341–345. 
[3] A.-H. Doan, J. Madhavan, P. Domingos, and A. Halevy, "Ontology matching: A machine learning approach," Handbook on 
Ontologies in Information Systems, 2003, pp. 397–416. 
[4] J. Euzenat, "Brief overview of T-tree: the Tropes taxonomy building tool," Proceedings of 4th ASIS SIG/CR workshop on 
classification research, Columbus (OH US), 1994, pp. 69–87. 
[5] J. Euzenat and P. Valtchev, "Similarity-based ontology alignment in OWL-Lite," Proceedings of 16th European Conference 
on Artificial Intelligence, Valencia, Spain, 2004. 
[6] J. Euzenat, T. Bach, et al., "State of the art on ontology alignment," Knowledge Web, 2004. 
[7] F. Giunchiglia and P. Shvaiko, "Semantic matching," Proceedings of 19th IJCAI, 2003, pp. 139–146. 
[8] N. Guarino, "Understanding, building and using ontlogies," International Journal of Human Computer Studies, 46(213): 
293-310, Feb./March 1997.  
[9] T. R. Gruber, "Toward principles for the design of ontologies used for knowledge sharing," Knowledge Systems 
Laboratory, Stanford University, 1993. 
[10] J. Hopcroft and R. Karp, "An n5/2 algorithm for maximum matching in bipartite graphs," SIAM Journal on Computing, 
2(4):225–231, 1973. 
[11] N. Jennings and M. Wooldridge, "Agent-oriented software engineering," Handbook of Agent Technology, AAAI/MIT 
Press, 2001. 
[12] Y.s R. Jean-Mary, E. P. Shironoshita, et al., "Ontology matching with semantic verification," Journal of Web Semantics, 
2009. 
[13] N. Kasabov, "Introduction: Hybrid intelligent adaptive systems," International Journal of Intelligent Systems, Vol.13, pp. 
453-454, 1998. 
[14] C. M. Keet, "Aspect of Ontology Integration," School of Computing, Napier University, 2004. 
 
ACCEPTANCE LETTER
Dear Feng-Hsu Wang,  
Congratulations! It is my great pleasure to announce you that your paper, A New Entity Similarity Measurement 
based on Automatic Featuring for Ontology Mapping, is accepted by the NCM2011: The 7th International 
Conference on Networked Computing and Advanced Information Management which will be held from June 21 to 23, 
2011 in Gyeongju, Republic of Korea.
This year, we have accepted a large number of various papers from more than 25 countries and it wasn't easy work for 
us to select the most innovative and well-written papers among them. 
With the assigned ID and PW, you can check or revise your personal and paper information from web system of the 
NCM2011. http://www.aicit.org/NCM 
Mission and Aims
The Mission and Aims of NCM are to facilitate meetings of distinguished scholars and interested researchers from all around 
the world in order to exchange knowledge and experiences present new ideas. We believe that global nature of our 
conference, active participation of most prominent speakers and delegates and cutting edge ideas will create a 
stimulating atmosphere for further active development of Multidisciplinary and Hybrid/Convergent research in the areas of 
Networked Computing and Information Management. It is true that developments in the fields of Network Computing 
and Advanced Information Management directly influences development of Multidisciplinary and Hybrid/Convergent 
research. Thus, by holding this conference, we see our mission enabling further considerable advancements in the fields 
of Multidisciplinary and Hybrid/Convergent research. Our aim is to gather and share innovative ideas, precious knowledge 
and unique experiences for mutual benefit of researchers and explore possible prospects for development of 
Multidisciplinary and Hybrid/Convergent research in the areas of Networked Computing and Information Management. 
Once again, congratulations on your paper acceptance.
I look forward to seeing you at the conference soon. 
Prof. Franz I. S. Ko, Ph.D.
General Chair, NCM2011.
Honorary Director General, IBC, Cambridge, UK.
Vice-President, The World Congress of Arts, Sciences and Communications, Cambridge, UK.  
    
Address: 707, Seokjang-dong, Gyeongju-si, Gyeongbuk, 780-741, Korea(Rep. of) 
Registration Number: 505-10-96301 
TEL: +82-70-7730-2833 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：王豐緒 計畫編號：99-2221-E-130-015- 
計畫名稱：一個基於關聯式特徵選取法的知識本體對映之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
