business, professional and personal l ives. Previous editions featured articles by
and about such luminaries as Dr. Bernie Segal, Dr. Jean Houston and Dr. Deepak
Chopra.
Vision
More than ever before there is an undeniable urgency for complementary
healthcare practit ioners to unite. Our vision is to l ight the path of unity by providing
a place where practit ioners can come together under one umbrella; to explore,
indulge and renew their passion for diverse holistic health care discipl ines
五、授課、發表論文、得到大會論文獎及當地報社採訪並刊登：
This year the theme of the conference is appropriately titied “Breakthrough
To Progress”.The progressive framework began with the launch of monthly
enewsletter. It’s a netcast and a new way to bring news, views and information
about profession that forward movement by upgrading member ID cards. And,
most proud of is interactive websites and Virtual Library.
Presently containing over 70,000 pages of hypnosisrelated information , the
Virtual Library has the potential to be the single most valuable resource available
today. Included in the Virtual Library are Articles , Research Papers, and Studies
with a complete section devoted to Professional Forms & Letters. Included in the
Virtual Library are over 350 Scripts, as will as 20 years of past issues of
educational journals.
The conference also gained momentum in raising awareness on the
importance of regular educational networking sponsor over 56 Chapter Locations
worldwide.Their skills through education .Attending this conference is an
excellent way to do so. I have the opportunity to meet with colleagues from all
over the workd. Additionally, it creates a favorable environment for networking,
collaboration, sharing of information and the building of trusted relationships
internationally.meeting to professional colleagues who share interest in
improving the quality of education.
A focus of this conference is in closing the gap between vision and reality.
So that vision to mainstream hypnosis in complementary health care with
competent, qualified practitioners is soon realized.
This year Friday evening social will be held in the Exhibit Area. What a
great way to socialize , shop and browse the bountiful display of educational
material available form expert speakers… and do it all at the same time! Hosting
the social in the exhibit area is designed to facilitate interaction with other
practitioners as well as the speakers.
The conference have a plethora of over 115 workshops, lectures and courses
from which to choose.In conference 1st day, the Local news paper invite
參加 IACT年會心得報告
一、目的：此次前往美國佛羅里達 Daytona Beach開 IACT年會，並發表論文及
授課。
二、時間：2009/05/18 ~ 2009/05/28
地點：美國佛羅里達 Daytona Beach , FL , USA
三、訪問過程：
05/18 From Taipei to Daytona Beach
05/19 Arrive Daytona Beach
05/20~05/26 Conference
05/27 From Daytona Beach to Taipei
05/28 Arrive Taipei
四、研討會背景：
International Association of Counselors & Therapists：
IACT Mission Statement
We believe it is important to provide a foundation from which it is possible to make
available the discoveries of the 'grassroots' explorers to those of advanced
academic background, and to supply a conduit through which researchers can make
their discoveries available to practit ioners. It is our goal to provide a place
where we can come together and share our knowledge and wisdom into an eclectic,
l iving, melting pot of information and dialogue.
IACT's membership includes medical practit ioners, psychologists, cl inical social
workers, stress consultants, NLP practit ioners, clergy, l icensed massage therapists,
hypnotherapists, biofeedback specialists, nutrit ionists, educators, mental health
therapists, substance abuse counselors and others in the helping, healing arts.
Training
In an effort to achieve a higher standard in educational excellence, training
requirements for Certif ied Instructors of IACT mandate a curriculum with a
minimum of 120 hours of course instruction. The training hours include, but are
not l imited to physical classroom attendance. Training hours are cumulative and
may include: internship, supervised practice, homework, reading assignments, and
research. Many of our instructors teach courses that exceed our 120 hour
minimum requirement.
History
Founded in 1990, by Steven and Jil l ian LaVelle, IACT established a reputation for
providing their members with an outstanding magazine entit led "Unlimited
Human!" It 's goal was to reach beyond the ordinary and
provide the complementary healthcare community with a premier magazine that
highlighted special articles; and ideas that could ultimately help members in their
