2ment-depended type. Conventional arrange-
ment of the dampers is diagonal or chevron
bracing in the frames of a building. The
magnitude of the relative displacement of the
ends of a damper is at most equal to the story
drift which is usually a small value. A large
amount or huge size of dampers will be
required to provide the desired damping ratio,
for example, 15% or higher, owing to the
massive and the stiff structure. The limitation
of available space for installation of dampers
in a building and high costs required will
obstruct the popular use of this technology.
Kani et al. [3] proposed the inverted
T-shaped lever in each frame bay of a building
to achieve the amplification of the relative
displacement of the ends of a damper. Tang et
al. [4] proposed the efficiency-enhanced
damping system (EDS) consists of linear fluid
dampers and relatively rigid linking members
with leverage for structures [5]. Constantinou
et al. [6] developed the toggle-brace-damper
system and the scissor-jack-damper system [7]
for buildings along this line. The effectiveness
of these systems for vibration reductions of
buildings to earthquakes has been proven
analytically and experimentally. But almost all
of them are analyzed in elastic range. In
Taiwan area, most of the buildings are RC
structures. The massive weight and the small
story drift of RC buildings are the critical
constraints for the application of added
dampers to upgrade the inadequate seismic
capability of the existing structures. The
damping system which can amplify the
movement of the ends of the added dampers
seems to be a good choice. In addition, a steel-
made displacement-depended type damper, for
example, ADAS or BRB [1, 8], is cost saving
in comparison with other types of dampers.
Therefore, it is worthwhile to understand the
seismic inelastic responses of the RC building
with EDS using the steel-made displace-
ment-depended type dampers.Furthermore, the
damage state of the structure can be clearly
presented and the seismic capability of the
structure can be estimated.
2. The Model of the RC Building with EDS
2.1 The Efficiency-Enhanced Damping
System (EDS)
It can be shown that the stiffness of an
added damper of the EDS will be amplified to
α2 times of the original value if the lever
system is rigid enough [4]. In addition, the
damper will enter into the plastic range earlier
and go further than that without the EDS. In
other words, the energy dissipation capability
of the damper will be enlarged to a large
extent.
2.2 The Load-Deformation Relationship for
RC Beams, Columns and Dampers
The SAP2000 is used to compute the non-
linear time history responses of the RC
building to earthquakes. The multi-linear
kinematic plasticity and the Taketa elements
are adopted to represent the nonlinear property
of RC beams and columns respectively.
Parameters input for RC beams and columns
include the length of plastic zone, the yielding
moment, ultimate moment and their corres-
ponding rotation angles. The program
Response-2000 is used to compute the values
of yielding moments, ultimate moments and
the corresponding curvatures. The rotation
angle can be obtained by integrating the
curvature along the member length. The
hysteretic loop of the steel-made ADAS or
BRB is very stable. The Wen’s model in SAP
2000 is used to simulate the properties of the
metallic damper used. It requires only the
stiffness and the yielding strength of the
damper as input.
2.3 The 10-story RC Building Model
The side view of the 10-story structure
model with EDS is shown in Fig. 1. The rigid
diaphragm for slabs and the fixed base of the
1st floor columns are assumed. The seismic
capability of the RC structure without damper
is 0.38g along its weak direction which has
been evaluated using the Capacity Spectrum
method. Therefore, the EDS are installed
parallel to the x-axis.
2.4 Earthquake History Records
To save the computer time, only the main
parts of the 1940 EL Centro earthquake (scaled
