properties, and stability against solvents and liquid crystals. Polyimide, which has been
known for their excellent mechanical and thermal properties should be able to meets these
requirements, if their chemical structures are designed accordingly. They are one of the
most promising polymeric materials for various applications, such as nonlinear optics,
optical data storage, optical information processing, and aligning layers for liquid crystal
display.
Polyimides with twisted biphenyl structures and trifluromethyl groups have been
shown to exhibit significantly lower dielectric constant, good solubility and increased optical
transparency with respect to non-fluorinated polyimides 5. Also a great deal of attention in
the field of wave guide fabrication owing to air easily tunable refractive index 6, 7.
In this study, we are trying to synthesize a series of polyimides containing azo group
and twisted biphenyls on the backbone. In order to achieve the target, we design a new
diamine. The chemical structure is shown as below.
(1)
Scheme 1. A new diamine with azo and twisted biphenyl on the backbone.
Polyimides derived from this diamine, should be soluble in common organic solvents. When
spin-coated, polyimide chains would lie down preferentially and randomly on the film
surface. This phenomenon is known as in-plane orientation. In this study, we intended to
investigate the effect of the cis-trans isomerisation of azo group under irradiation on the in-
stirring, allowing the temperature to rise to 15°C. The resulting mixture was then cooled to
0°C, 4-amino nitrobenzene (5.21 g, 0.04mol) was added in portions, and stirring was
continued at this temperature for 2 hrs. The excess nitrous acid (presence tested by starch-
iodide paper) was decomposed using the required amount of urea. The clear diazonium salt
solution thus obtained was used for the subsequent coupling reaction.
2,2’-bis(trifluoromethyl)biphenyl (5.80 g, 0.02 mol) was dissolved in acetic acid (10 mL)
and cooled to 0°C in an ice-bath. A freshly prepared diazonium salt solution was added at
this temperature dropwise over 2 hrs with vigorous stirring. The pH of the reaction mass
was maintained between 4.5-5.0 by addition of 10% sodium acetate solution. The mixture
was stirred for further 1 hr at 0-5°C and then heated up to 30°C, diluted with 100 mL water,
and further stirred for 15 mins. The solid product separated was filtered off, washed with
water until pH 7, and finally dried in vacuum at 60 °C. Yield 85.9%.
1.3. Direct coupling
CF3
F3C
H2N NH2
NaNO2/ HCl
CF3
F3C
N2ClClN2
NH2
CF3
F3C
N NN NH2N NH2
IV
(V)
(VI)
(1)
A new diamine with azo and twisted biphenyl on the backbone
Scheme 3. Synthetic scheme of direct coupling method
1.4.1 Preparation of Monomer (1)
In a mixture of 5 mL of acetic acid, 1.7 mL of hydrochloric acid, and 3.1 mL of water was
dissolved 1.000 g (3.12 mmol) of 2, 2’-bis (trifluoromethyl)-4,4’-diaminobiphenyl and the
solution was cooled to 0-5oC. To the solution was added 0.475 g (7.92 mmol) of sodium
nitrite while stirring. After the addition, the stirring was continued for an additional 1 hr at
the same temperature, and 0.062 g (0.638 mmol) of sulfamic acid was added there to
prepare a diazo solution. Separately, 1.437 g (6.87 mmol) of sodium anilinomethane
sulfonate was dissolved in 12.5 mL of water, followed by cooling to 0-5oC. A sodium
hydroxide solution was added thereto with stirring to adjust pH range of 2-3, and the above
diazo solution was added thereto while stirring, followed by allowing the mixture to react at
the same temperature for 2 hrs. After completion of the coupling reaction, the reaction
mixture was made alkaline by addition of sodium hydroxide and heated at 50 oC, for 4 hrs
for hydrolysis (fig 4). After cooling, the precipitate was collected by filtration, washed with
water until pH 7 and dried. Yield 91.4%
Results and discussion
Diazotization coupling
The synthesis of new diamine with azo and twisted biphenyl on the backbone (1) is
shown in scheme 2. We have tried to prepare 1 by diazotization-coupling of 4-
aminonitrobenzene (I)with 2, 2’-bis (trifluoromethyl) biphenyl (II) followed by reduction. So
far, we have not been able to prepare compound 1 by this method.
Direct coupling
The synthesis of new diamine with azo and twisted biphenyl on the backbone is shown in
Scheme 3. Compound 1 was prepared by diazotization-coupling reaction of 2,2’-bis
(trifluoromethyl)-4,4’-diaminobiphenyl (IV) with aniline (VI). This coupling process has been
done by three different periods of timings, i.e. (2.5, 3.5 and 4.5hrs). But the resultant
product percentage is same in all the cases. From HPLC studies, we have analysed that, lots
of impurities are present with the product. In TLC, two different solvent systems are used.
The first system contains hexane and ethyl acetate (1:5-1:9) and the second system contains
hexane and dichloromethane (1:1-1:5). No distinguishable spots can be identified. Finally we
have tried to do recrystallization, but there is no crystal formation occurs. These are the
difficulties we have experienced in this method.
Figure 3. Thin layer chromatogram of reaction mixture
High performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)
The HPLC result is shown in Fig 4, a sharp peak at 4 mins (20%) may correspond to the
product (1) and other peaks may bedue to the presence of starting materials such as 2,2’-
bis(trifluoromethyl)-4,4’-diaminobiphenyl and aniline.
Aromatic region of the spectra is quite complicated, that is may be due to presence of
impurities, such as aniline and diamine.
Diazotization coupling and hydrolysis
In order to prevent the coupling reaction occurring on the amino group of aniline,
protected aniline (VIII) is used (as shown in Scheme 4). After the coupling, the amino group
is reclaimed by hydrolysis in basic condition.
High performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)
The HPLC result is shown in Fig 6. The sharp peak at 5.6 mins (58%) may correspond to
the product (1) and rest of the high intense peaks at 1.8 and 3 min may due to the presence
of unreacted starting materials such as sodium anilinomethane sulfonate, 2,2’-bis
(trifluoromethyl)-4,4’-diaminobiphenyl.
Figure 6. High performance liquid chromatogram of the raw product (1) prepared by
Scheme 4
The EI-Mass spectrum of the raw product is shown in Fig 8. The intense peak at 527.7 is
the molecular ion peak of the desired product (Fig 8). It also gives the evidence for
formation of desired product 1.
Thin layer chromatography (TLC) clearly shows three spots in chloroform and methanol
solvent system. After the column chromatography separation, we got only one spot on the
TLC. Even though there is only one spot, the 1HNMR spectrum is complicated because of
impurities. So we are trying to separate the monomer by column chromatography using
different combination of solvent system. This compound is partially soluble in methanol,
because of high polar.
TLC : Before separation After separation
NMR spectra of monomer (after separation)
Figure 9. 1HNMR spectra of 1 (after separation)
