 1 
 
中文摘要 
在醫院緊急與繁重的工作壓力下，維持醫院員工健康將可提昇醫院行政效率與醫
療品質，本文提出以基因演算法與倒傳遞類神經網路建構醫院員工健康管理系
統，以協助醫院主管訂定健康政策與醫院員工自我健康管理的參考。本篇論文以
四家醫院 2570 位醫院員工為研究對象，將其生活問卷的資料做為條件屬性，以
相對應的個人健康檢查結果為決策屬性，運用基因演算法計算出生活型態與健康
檢查值異常的關連性，而問卷資料中未能涵蓋的生活型態項目，本研究應用倒傳
遞類神經網路預測其檢查值異常機率，最後計算出所有生活型態的異常機率。為
讓受檢者可以清楚瞭解個人目前生活型態與罹患疾病機率的趨勢，本研究運用
Bezier 曲面(Bezier Surface)原理將生活選項與檢驗異常機率值以網狀立體圖
方式呈現，此視覺化的預測系統將可作為醫護人員自我健康管理與改善生活型態
的參考。  
關鍵詞:基因演算法、倒傳遞類神經網路、Bezier 曲面、健康管理 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
1. Introduction 
Only when medical staffs are healthy, they can be more inclined to concentrate 
and complete the courses of treatment and avoid infection. Besides, careful and 
accurate diagnosis and treatment must be carried out and depended upon medical staff. 
Hence, health conditions of medical staffs are inevitably related to medical treatment 
quality. In coordination with governmental policies, medical institutions offer 
employees not only physical examinations but also examinations of occupational 
diseases in special medical locations. However, these examinations are 
disappointingly passive without further investigation of corresponding relationship 
between the lifestyles and health conditions. If it can be performed ahead of time, it is 
likely to prevent infection and reduce the morbidity in advance.  This research is 
based on basic lifestyles questionnaires distributed to hospital staff and find out the 
correlation between their lifestyles and physical health. The results of lifestyle 
questionnaires are set up as conditional attributes and employee physical examination 
data are set up as decision attributes. This research initially makes use of Genetic 
Algorithms to detect correlation between multiple life attributes and disease infection, 
and then comprehensively predicts the impact of work and lifestyles toward medical 
staffs by back-propagation network technology. To help examinees realize the health 
tendency much easily, health management system constructs morbidity distribution 
with 3D Bezier surface. Except for follow-up of physical examinations, the system 
also functions as a management tool of personal life and health.  
 
2. Literature Review 
2.1 Genetic Algorithms  
Genetic Algorithms is frequently applied to medical research, such as disease 
models, prediction of medical condition, shift schedules of doctors and nurses and 
efficiency analysis of service quality, but it could also be applied to medical 
diagnosis, such as creating an automatic system to orientate optic nerve head in eye 
funds photographic images to assist the treatment of patient (Enrique et al., 2008). 
Besides, it combines with simulation technology to enhance care quality of hospital 
emergency unit and undertake microarray data analysis about ovarian cancer (Shital 
and Kusiak, 2006). As far as cancer prevention and cures are concerned, it has been 
studied to make use of data mining technology, such as decision tree, genetic 
algorithms and support vector machines (SVM) to explore cancer genes. Therein 
 5 
 
lifestyles which consists of sleeping, diet, work, recreation and medical knowledge. 
The 76 items of health examination such as vision, hearing, urine protein, cholesterol, 
triglycerides, bone densitometry and etc are considered. The answers of 
questionnaires, treated as conditional attributes and the corresponding health 
examination results, treated as decision attributes are combined into an integral 
database as shown in Table 1. The examination item of cholesterol was taken to be an 
example to illustrate the empirical process to find out the relationship between the 
health examination and disease.  
 
Table 1  Integral Database  
IInterviewer 
number 
Answers to Questionnaires  Results of physical examination 
Gender Slumber ………  Triglyceride GPT ……… 
1 1 1 ………  N N ……… 
2 2 3 ………  X N ……… 
3 2 5 ………  N N ……… 
4 1 2 ………  N X ……… 
5 1 3 ………  X N ……… 
6 1 3 ………  N N ……… 
. 
.. 
. 
. 
. 
.. 
 
. 
 
. 
.. 
. 
.. 
……… 
……… 
Note:  X: abnormal values,  N: normal values 
 
The lifestyle questionnaire is consisted of fifty-five questions. First of all, we 
need to encode the answers of the questions for the operation of genetic algorithms. 
The number of choice in each question will determine the amount of genes. If there 
are n choices in that question, then the number of genes for the corresponding 
question will be N. The interrelationship is shown as follows: 
2][log2 
nN  (1) 
where [ ] : Gauss function 
Take the problem of insomnia in the questionnaire as an example. The answer 
choices for that particular question are shown as follows: 
Do you have insomnia? 
□No      
□Yes：○ difficult to fall asleep ○ awaken too early  ○ often awaken after 
 7 
 
 
3.3 Fitness Value 
The aim of this paper is to predict the relationship between lifestyles and health 
conditions. To prevent form statistics discrepancy, the fitness value, as shown in 
equation (3), is calculated from not only the abnormal ratio but the variation of 
population who match the selected conditions. 
)
)/)(exp(1
)/)(exp(1
1()1(
cNN
cNN
N
N
RF
ia
ia
m
a
mmm


            (3) 
Where 
c : Constant 
Fm :  Fitness value of the m
th
 chromosome 
Rm： Abnormal ratio of the m
th
 chromosome 
ψ m: Value of hyperbolic tangent function of the m
th
 chromosome 
Na : 
 Abnormal population who match the selected conditions of the m
th
 
chromosome 
N m : Population who match the selected conditions of the m
th
 chromosome  
Ni :  Ideal 
target population 



p
i
i
t
i
T
N
N
1
 
 
Nt : Total Number of Population 
Ti : The choice number of the i
th
 selected item 
p : the number of the selected items 
 
The fitness value is decreased abruptly by ψ value when population is much less 
than ideal target population. It reveals that the main function ofψ value is to modulate 
the influence of population parameter. Whenψ value is larger than 30, it would go 
right and turn higher, which represents the more population, the greater influence to 
fitness value.  However, when it is too far away from ideal target population, the 
influence of population is reduced but that of accuracy variable, Rm, is increased 
comparatively.  
 9 
 
between daily habits and body abnormity via examination and then put various 
combination rules into the prediction system for back-propagation neural network. 
According to cases, the former combinations of illness rules in the database of which 
data is collected by questionnaire investigation may be not complete, but the attribute 
rules will be complete after prediction via back-propagation neural network so that the 
combinations under different conditions will have definite profit value. Based on the 
principles of Bezier Surface, the health management system with the predicted 
combination form will trace the probability graph with color stratification and 
different visual angles. Thus the written records and data can be clearly displayed on 
the screen of computer so that an examinee can know his/her body conditions through 
medical data in a health trend graph. Besides, it can improve the medical practitioners’ 
awareness on probability of suffering illness. In the future, with the increase of 
examinees’ data, the database will be enlarged and a more practical health trend 
prediction system will be established to clinical application. At last, the physical 
conditions of staffers working for medical centers/stations will be strengthened.     
        
References 
Aickelin, U. and Dowsland, K. A., “An Indirect Genetic Algorithm for a Nurse 
Scheduling Problem,” Computers & Operations Research, Vol. 31, No. 5, 2004, pp. 
761-778. 
Aickelin, U. and Dowsland, K. A., “Exploiting problem structure in a Genetic 
Algorithms approach to a nurse rostering problem,” Journal of Scheduling, Vol.3, 
No. 3, 2000, pp. 139-153. 
Chiu, J. S., Huang, S. H., Hu, T. M., Chen, Y. Y., Li, Y. C., and Wang, Y. F., 2006. 
“Clinical applications of artificial intelligence to forecast target range of 
radioimmunometric intact parathyroid hormone in hemodialysis patients,” Annals 
of Nuclear Medicine and Sciences, Vol. 19, No. 3, 2006, pp. 149-159. 
Dias, T. M., Ferber, D. F., Souza, C. C. d., and Moura, A. V., “Constructing nurse 
schedules at large hospitals,” International Transactions in Operational Research 
Vol. 10, No. 3, 2003, pp. 245-265. 
Enrique, J. C., Rincon, M., Feijoo, J. G., and José M, Martínez-de-la-Casa, 
“Identification of the optic nerve head with genetic algorithms,” Artificial 
Intelligence in Medicine, Vol. 43, No. 3, 2008, pp. 243-259. 
Guler, I., Polat, H., and Ergun, U., “Combining Neural Network and Genetic 
Algorithm for Prediction of Lung Sounds,” Journal of Medical Systems, Vol. 29, 
 11 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或
應用價值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能
性）、是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，
作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
□V 達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：目前已投稿至品質學報(TSSCI)，審稿中。 
 
 13 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議 
心得報告 
                          日期： 99年 8 月 30 日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
The first POMS-HK International Conference 於於2009年12月31日在香港理
工大學舉行，會議首先由Hau L. Lee (Thoma Professor of Operations, Information 
and Technology Graduate School of Business, Stanford University)進行專題演講
「Building Supply Chain Excellence in Emerging Economies」，接著開始論文發表，
個人於session B5中擔任session chair，此session共有五篇論文發表，分別為「The 
effect of pre-purchase experience of experience room on customer responses: with a 
focus on the moderating roles of personal」、「Organic structures in call centres : 
implications for affective commitment in manufacturing enterprise」、「An exploration 
on the impact of internal service quality on customer contact employee’s commitment 
to customer services」、「Customer satisfaction in hospitality industry – a study on star 
計畫編號 NSC   98-2221-E-020-006- 
計畫名稱 建置醫院員工健康管理系統之研究 
出國人員
姓名 
黃怡詔 
服務機構
及職稱 
屏東科技大學工業
管理系助理教授 
會議時間 
98 年 12月 30日 
至 
98 年 12月 30日 
會議地點 香港理工大學 
會議名稱 
The first Production and Operations Management 
Society-Hongkong Chapter International Conference 
發表論文
題目 
The construction of disease forecast system of hospital staff 
 15 
 
財務模式發展經由專家報告與研討後，讓自己對於供應鏈有更多新的想法，
這些都可以作為個人未來的研究方向。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
    無 
四、建議 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
    紙本名稱：Proceedings of the first POMS-HK International Conference  
光碟名稱：Proceedings of the first POMS-HK International Conference 
內容：研討會各篇論文摘要與內容 
六、其他 
 
hotels」及個人發表的「The construction of disease forecast system of hospital 
staff」。 
二、與會心得 
 1. 擔任 session chair，主持國際研討會： 
這次有機會擔任研討會單元主持人，在主持過程增加自己對國際研討會主
持流程的了解，並藉由主持研討的過程，了解國際會議議程的控制與問題追
蹤，在主持會議前，先針對各發表論文進行詳細的探討，在介紹報告者時，
也將報告內容簡單描述，讓自己更深入了解各國在醫療醫病關係、企業行銷
與顧客關係管理上的進展與研究，在與各國報告人員進行顧客關係議題的交
流討論，也適時引導討論主題，讓與會學者充分溝通，最終圓滿結束該研討
單元，從單元討論過程，更增加自己主持國際會議研討會的經驗。 
2. 個人發表論文： 
在交流過程中，有來自英國、韓國、日本與中國的與會學者，讓自己對於
各個國家甚至跨國的顧客關係管理、服務品質能更深層了解，本次研討會個
人發表「The Construction of Disease Forecast System of Hospital Staff」，將本
次國科會計畫的初步研究成果提出報告，本次發表的論文是運用基因演算法
和倒傳遞類神經網路推導醫院員工健康狀況與健康檢查項目的關連性，在個
人報告過程與與會人員針對醫療預測等議題充分交流溝通，這讓自己對於研
究與論文寫作助益甚豐，尤其個人論文發表有關基因演算法與倒傳遞類神經
網路的應用，在會場也充分討論兩種方法在醫療的其他應用與最新概念，讓
個人獲益良多，也在討論溝通的過程再次修正個人在論文結構與推演觀念。 
3. 專題演講與其他演講場次的收獲： 
專題演講是有關在新興國家經濟運轉下的供應鏈管理，主要探討在基礎建
設薄弱，高度不確定的發展與障礙下，如何以現有資源與國際接軌，強力提
昇自身競爭力。在個場次議題中，也參與另外兩個場次，對於供應鏈管理與
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿 ■撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
目前已投稿至品質學報(TSSCI)，審稿中 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
在學術成就上，本研究同時應用基因演算法與倒傳遞類神經網路尋找出醫療院所醫護人員
生活型態與健康狀態的關聯性，充分應用基因演算法在尋求近似最佳解的特性，以個人生
活型態為條件屬性，健康檢查結果為決策屬性，找出生活與檢驗結果的關連性。接著應用
到傳遞類神經網路推測調查時不足的部份，建構整體健康資料庫。 
在社會影響方面，本研究也藉由到傳遞類神經網路推導的健康預測組合表，以 Bezier 原
理描繪出具有色層辦識與不同視角的機率圖形，讓原本只是書面文字與數據能夠明確具親
和力的在電腦螢幕上顯示，也使醫療數據內容達到圖形的數位化。另外，本研究主軸還是
提出醫院員工於不同生活型態之健康情狀趨勢，來加強醫療從業人員在各種生活條件下的
患病機率認知。希望藉由此研究能提供專業醫師在診療上的判斷使用，讓目前儲存在電腦
中的醫療資訊，建構出具有實務價值並應用於臨床上的健康趨勢預測系統。 
 
