information also had a significant effect on [FP1 FP2-β] activity, and color 
combination had significant effect on [F3 F4-α] and [O1 O2-β]. When the polarity 
combination of static/dynamic information was set to be 
black-on-white/black-on-white, subjects had the smallest [FP1 FP2-β] activity. When 
color combinations were set to be black-on-white/black-on-white and blue-on-yellow 
/blue-on-yellow, subjects had the higher [F3 F4-α] activity and the smaller [O1 O2-β] 
activity than other color combinations. 
Keywords: static/dynamic information, comprehension, Change ratio of EEG 
 
1.Introduction 
With the high advance in the information technology and word-wide web 
network, the information displayed in web-sites is becoming an important medium to 
spread information. Except the traditional static display, recently dynamic display is 
widely used to present information on a homepage. Generally, there are three types of 
dynamic display to be adopted, they are leading, RSVP and flash displays. Regarding 
the three dynamic displays, Juola et al. (1995) described leading display is is a string 
of texts that moves from right to left in “jumps”; RSVP is a sequence of whole or 
part-word patterns. In the paper of Wang and Kan (2003), they defined flash display 
as a dynamic display which presents each sentence at one time, but the old sentence is 
removed when the new one appears.  
Because reading information from a dynamic display is very different from on a 
static display, comparisons between the two methods are widely discussed in the 
following papers. Koler et al. (1981) pointed out that the readability of RSVP was 
worse than that of static information. Granaas et al. (1984) also found subjects’ 
comprehension for leading display was significantly worse than for static display 
information. They also found that subjects’ visual performance on different types of 
dynamic display was different. Juola et al. (1995) found that subjects’ reading 
accuracy on RSVP was significantly better than on leading display. In the study of 
Chinese dynamic display, Wang and Kan (2003) also proposed that the 
comprehension for leading, RSVP, and flash was significantly different. 
Speed is an important factor for users’ reading comprehension because of the 
dynamic characteristic of dynamic display. The speed of dynamic display is measured 
as “word per minute, wpm”. In the researches of Chinese dynamic display, Wang and 
Gotman (1999) found lower frequencies during a cognitive task experiment, including 
reduced activity as compared to the resting state. in addition, as task difficulty 
increased (counting forward, counting backward, counting backward from 100 by 
seven), subjects showed stepwise reduction in β activity. 
In recent years, the study for EEG activities has been applied to the field of VDT 
research. Yamada (1998) found that Fm-θ in the middle of the forehead will be a good 
index to assess VDT workers’ degree of attention or degree of concentration. The 
Fm-θ seemed to be provoked when VDT workers were engaged in the more 
interesting tasks. In the paper of Shieh et al. (2005), Change ratio of EEG activities 
were not significantly different from different VDT conditions. They also found that a 
luminance contrast ratio 1:3 would increase the θ-wave and suppress the α-wave. The 
project which started from Hu (2005) would like to investigate the effects of dynamic 
display on subjects’ comprehension for static and dynamic information and change 
ratio of EEG activities. 
2. Method 
2.1 Apparatus 
A Topcon Screenscope SS-3 was used to test the subjects’ visual acuity and 
Standard Pseudo Isochromatic chart was used to test the subjects’ color vision. The 
CIE color values of displays were measured by using a Minolta CHROMA METER 
CS-100 and the TES-1334 was used to test ambient luminance. A Powerlab/16sp was 
used to collect subjects’ change ratio of EEG activities of which EEG poles adopted 
international 10-20 system. A K7 PC with an INX 19-inch color LCD monitor was 
used to display the experimental task at a screen resolution of 1024 × 768 pixels.  
2.2 Procedure 
The procedure of the study is similar to the procedure of the study of Wang and 
Kan (2003). The visual tasks for static and dynamic information were both reading 
tasks. In order to prevent visual fatigue, subjects were asked not to attempt any task 
on-screen for an hour before the experiment. Before starting the experiment, baseline 
EEG activities were collected for 10 seconds and then two practice passages were run. 
At the beginning of the experiment, a warning tone was initiated to catch subjects’ 
attention to the “×” at the center of the screen for each trial. Five seconds later, the 
static and dynamic information displays were shown on the center of the screen at the 
same time, and dynamic display was on the upper side of the static information. The 
other polarity combinations and other color combinations of static/dynamic displays. 
In addition, display type, speed and color combination static/dynamic displays had 
significant effects on subjects’ comprehension for dynamic information. When the 
dynamic display was set as flashing and leading, subjects showed the better 
comprehension than as RSVP. Subjects performed better comprehension when display 
speed was set at 175 wpm than at 225 wpm. Color combinations of 
black-on-white/black-on-white, blue-on-yellow/blue-on-yellow, blue-on-yellow/ 
black-on-white resulted in the better subjects’ comprehension for dynamic display 
than the color combination of black-on-white/ blue-on-yellow.  
3.2 EEG activities 
Speed had significant effects on [F3 F4-α], [O1 O2-α], [O1 O2-β], and [F3 F4-θ] 
activities. They had the better responses when the speed was set at 175 wpm than at 
225 wpm. Polarity combination of static/dynamic displays also had a significant effect 
on [FP1 FP2-β] activity, and color combination of static/dynamic displays had 
significant effects on [F3 F4-α] and [O1 O2-β]. When the polarity combination of 
static/dynamic displays was set as black-on-white/black-on-white, subjects had the 
smallest [FP1 FP2-β] activity. When color combinations were set to be 
black-on-white/black-on-white and blue-on-yellow/blue-on-yellow, subjects had the 
higher [F3 F4-α] activity and the smaller [O1 O2-β] activity than other color 
combinations. 
4. Conclusions 
This project used two experiments to investigate the effects of speed, display 
type of dynamic information, polarity combination and color combination of 
dynamic/static displays on subjects’ comprehension for static and dynamic 
information and change ratio of EEG activities. The suggestions for website designers 
developing dynamic/ static display are as follows: 
(1) Flashing and leading dynamic display are suggested using to increase the 
users’ comprehension for static and dynamic information reading 
simultaneously in comparison with RSVP display.  
(2) Speed of dynamic display is suggested to set at 175 wpm rather than at 225 
wpm to increase the comprehension of users handling dynamic/static 
information reading dual-tasks. In addition, the lower speed (175 wpm) can 
also advance the wave of [F3 F4-α] and [O1 O2-α] and restrain the waves of 
