commercially available metallic stent were used as 
controls. The results indicated that the cyclic 
crosslinking structures formed within the genipin 
stent matrix were beneficiary to the improvement of 
its mechanical property. Additionally, the tolerable 
compression load of the genipin stent was superior to 
that of the control metallic stent. The cytotoxicity 
of the genipin stent was significantly lower than the 
epoxy stent. The deployment of the genipin stent in 
rabbit infrarenal abdominal aortas was performed 
using a French sheath. At 3 months postoperatively, 
the retrieved arteries remained patent； no 
thrombosis was observed. A nearly intact layer of 
endothelial cells was seen on the stent-implanted 
vessel wall. To evaluate its possibility as a drug 
delivery vehicle, sirolimus (an anti-proliferative 
drug) was loaded in the genipin stent. It was found 
that the genipin stent with heparin coating exhibited 
a linear sustained-release profile and the released 
sirolimus still possessed its original activity in 
inhibiting smooth muscle cell proliferation. These 
findings suggest that the genipin stent with enhanced 
mechanical strength can be used as an attractive 
stent platform for local drug delivery. 
英文關鍵詞： Crosslinking； Endothelialization； 
Biocompatibility； Biodegradation； Sirolimus 
 
Abstract 
A limitation with the use of polymers as stent matrices is their inherent mechanical weakness. 
In this study, a polymeric stent, made from chitosan-based films fixed by genipin which has a cyclic 
molecular structure, was developed (the genipin stent). The mechanical properties of the genipin 
stent were investigated; its counterpart fixed by  a linear epoxy compound (the epoxy stent) and a 
commercially available metallic stent were used as controls. The results indicated that the cyclic 
crosslinking structures formed within the genipin stent matrix were beneficiary to the improvement 
of its mechanical property. Additionally, the tolerable compression load of the genipin stent was 
superior to that  of the control metallic stent. The cytotoxicity of the genipin stent was significantly 
lower than the epoxy stent. The deployment of the genipin stent in rabbit infrarenal abdominal 
aortas was performed using a French sheath. At 3 months postoperatively, the retrieved arteries 
remained patent; no thrombosis was observed. A nearly  intact layer of endothelial cells was seen on 
the stent-implanted vessel wall. To evaluate its possibility  as a drug delivery vehicle, sirolimus (an 
anti-proliferative drug) was loaded in the genipin stent. It  was found that the genipin stent with 
heparin coating exhibited a linear sustained-release profile and the released sirolimus still possessed 
its original activity in inhibiting smooth muscle cell proliferation. These findings suggest that the 
genipin stent with enhanced mechanical strength can be used as an attractive stent platform for local 
drug delivery.
Keywords: Crosslinking; Endothelialization; Biocompatibility; Biodegradation; Sirolimus
I
1. Introduction
Biodegradable polymeric stents have attracted much attention as an alternative to metallic 
stents [1]. The required characteristics of polymeric stents are ability for controlled and sustained 
drug release and sufficient  mechanical strength to prevent negative vessel remodeling and avoid 
stent deformity or strut fractures [1−3]. Polymeric stents are usually flexible along their longitudinal 
axes which can facilitate the delivery of stents through a tortuous vessel. One of the limitations, 
however, with the use of polymers as stent matrices is their inherent mechanical weakness.
In a previous study, we reported a polymeric stent which was made of chitosan/poly(ethylene 
oxide) (PEO)/glycerol blended films crosslinked by  an epoxy compound which had a linear 
molecular structure (the epoxy stent) [4]. Chitosan-based materials are generally fragile due to their 
crystallinity [5]. To reduce its crystallinity  while improving the ductility, glycerol and PEO were 
blended in the preparation of the stent [6]. This polymeric stent  was able to withstand radial 
deformations of more than 30% and still regain its original configuration, while a control metallic 
stent started to deform irreversibly when the applied compression strain was over 10% [6]. 
Nevertheless, the radial strength of this epoxy stent was still suboptimal.
Covalent crosslinking has been widely  used for the improvement of structural stability and 
mechanical properties of many  engineering materials [7,8]. It  was reported that fixation of materials 
by different crosslinking agents may produce distinct crosslinking structures, thus affecting their 
mechanical properties and crosslinking characteristics [9]. To improve the mechanical properties of 
the developed polymeric stent, a naturally-occurring crosslinking agent, genipin, with a cyclic 
molecular structure was used in this report to fabricate a new polymeric stent (the genipin stent). 
Genipin is a hydrolytic product of geniposide which can be isolated from the fruits of 
Gardenia jasminoides Ellis [10]. It is known that genipin can spontaneously react with the amine 
groups on amino acids or proteins to form dark blue pigments [11]. The cytotoxicity of genipin is 
significantly lower than that of synthetic crosslinking agents, such as glutaraldehyde and epoxy 
compounds [9]. Additionally, the biocompatibility of the materials crosslinked by genipin is 
superior to those crosslinked by glutaraldehyde or epoxy compounds [12].
In this study, characteristics of the genipin stent were investigated in vitro. For the test of 
mechanical properties, a commercially available metallic stent and the epoxy  stent developed in our 
previous study were used as controls. The technical feasibility in the deployment of this genipin 
1
2. Materials and Methods
2.1. Materials
Chitosan (viscosity  ≧ 400 mPa．s, 1% in 1% acetic acid at 20°C, MW 700 kDa) with a degree 
of deacetylation of approximately 85% was purchased from Fluka Chemical Co. (Switzerland). 
PEO (MW 400 kDa), genipin, epoxy compound (ethylene glycol diglycidyl ether, Denacol® 
EX-810) and sirolimus (Rapamycin®) were obtained from Sigma-Aldrich (St. Louis, MO, USA), 
Challenge Bioproducts (Taichung, Taiwan), Nagase Chemicals Ltd. (Osaka, Japan) and LC 
Laboratories (Woburn, MA, USA), respectively. All other chemicals and reagents used were of 
analytical grade.
2.2. Preparation of test stents
A solution casting method was used in fabricating chitosan-based films (chitosan/PEO/glycerol 
= 1.0/0.2/0.1 by w/w) [6]. The obtained films had a uniform thickness of 0.10 ± 0.01 mm (n = 10). 
The prepared chitosan-based films were cut into strips with a length of 100 mm and a width of 1.0 
mm for the fabrication of stents. The strips were wound onto a mandrel (diameter = 2.5 mm, the 
ends of the strips were fixed on the mandrel by an adhesive tape) and then chemically  fixed in a 1% 
aqueous genipin solution at 37°C for distinct periods. To elucidate the effect of the salt 
concentration on the characteristics of test stents, aqueous genipin was buffered with distinct 
concentrations of phosphate buffered saline (PBS, 0M, 0.01M, 0.02M or 0.1M). After fixation, test 
stents remained on the mandrel were rinsed several times with ethanol (genipin has a significantly 
higher solubility  in ethanol than in water) to remove the residual crosslinking agent and allowed to 
dry in air. The degree of crosslinking of test stents was determined by calculating the percentage of 
free amino groups on chitosan that was reacted with genipin subsequent to fixation, measured by 
the ninhydrin assay [13].
2.3. Characterization of test stents
Configurations of test stents on the mandrel after fixation at distinct salt concentrations were 
photographed. Subsequently, test stents were cooled down in liquid nitrogen and then fractured near 
liquid-nitrogen temperatures to prepare freeze-fractured cross-sectional surfaces and analyzed by 
the scanning electron microscopy (SEM, JSE-6500F, JEOL, Japan). The porosity  of the cross-
sectional views of test stents (total pore area per imaging unit area) was made of representative 
3
2.5. In vivo feasibility study
Animal care and use was performed in compliance with the “Guide for the Care and Use of 
Laboratory Animals” prepared by the Institute of Laboratory  Animal Resources, National Research 
Council, and published by the National Academy Press, revised 1996 and approved by the 
institutional review board (IRB, Veterans General Hospital-Taichung, Taiwan). The feasibility of the 
deployment of the genipin stent (the O.D. of the expanded state = 2.5 mm) was evaluated in rabbit 
infrarenal abdominal aortas (New Zealand White rabbit, 2.9–3.3 kg). Before deployment, test stents 
were dip-coated with hydrophobic heparin (10% by w/v in a mixture of 78% hexane and 22% 
isopropanol, DurafloTM, Edwards Life Science, Irvine, CA, USA) to reduce a possible 
thrombogenicity [4] and subsequently  sterilized by  ethylene oxide. The heparin content coated on 
the prepared stents (61.2 ± 6.5 µg/cm2, n = 3) was assayed by  a toluidine-blue colorimetric method 
[16].
During the surgical procedure, rabbits were anesthetized with isoflurane inhalant. After 
systemic heparinization (Heparin LEO®, LEO Pharma, FL, USA) with an intravenous dose of 150 
IU/kg, a transverse aortotomy was made [6]. Lesions were produced in the infrarenal abdominal 
aorta by balloon-induced injury. Test stents in the crimped state were then deployed into rabbit 
infrarenal abdominal aortas via a 5.0 French sheath [6]. The stent-to-artery diameter ratio was 1.1 to 
1.2 [17]. Rabbits were maintained on 30 mg clopidogrel and 40 mg aspirin per day.
After 1 week or 3 months (n = 3 for each time period), animals were euthanized and the 
infrarenal abdominal aorta was removed, fixed by  formalin and embedded in paraffin. Randomly 
selected serial sections were stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E). The lumen area and the 
area circumscribed by the internal elastic lamina (IEL area) of the retrieved artery were measured 
using an Image-Pro® Plus software. Artery stenosis was defined as (1.0 − lumen area/IEL area) × 
100% [18]. Additional sections were investigated by the immunofluorescent staining. The 
antibodies used in the study included monoclonal mouse anti-human CD31 (PECAM-1, DAKO, 
1:20) and monoclonal mouse anti-rabbit macrophages (RAM11, DAKO, 1:50).
2.6. Possibility as a drug delivery vehicle
To evaluate their possibility  as a drug delivery vehicle, sirolimus [2.5% (low dose) or 4.0% 
(high dose) by  w/w] was blended in a chitosan-based solution; subsequently, a thin film was made 
for the fabrication of test stents and the stents were coated with heparin as described above. The 
5
3. Results and Discussion
3.1. Characteristics of test stents
Fig. 1a shows the configurations of test stents after fixation in a 1% aqueous genipin solution 
at distinct salt  concentrations. Chitosan is a cationic polyelectrolyte with a pKa value of 
approximately 6.5 [22]. The dominant driving force for the swelling of polyelectrolyte materials 
such as chitosan in an aqueous environment is their inherent electrostatic repulsion between the 
charged groups. The electrostatic repulsion present in the charged chitosan molecules may be 
modulated via the manipulation of their environmental salinity  [23]. In the absence of salts 
(deionized water, ~pH 6.0), the protonated amine groups (–NH3+) on chitosan created an 
electrostatic repulsion force within the stent matrix (Fig. 1b), thus the stent on the mandrel was 
swollen relatively and became deformed (Fig. 1a). In contrast, in the presence of salts, the swelling 
of the stent matrix was limited because the electrostatic repulsion resulting from the charged groups 
on chitosan was suppressed appreciably by  the accumulation of counterions diffused from the 
environment (the screening effect) [24]. 
A compression test determines the mechanical behavior of test  stents under crushing loads. It is 
useful for the measurement of compressive fractures and elastic properties of test stents. As shown 
in Table 1, in the presence of salts, the values of the strain-at-fracture and ultimate compression load 
of test stents decreased as the salt concentration used in fixation increased (Table 1). A porous 
structure was observed on the cross-sections of test stents (Fig. 2); the porosity of the stent was 
significantly increased with increasing the salt concentration used (P < 0.05, Table 1), due to the 
relatively high infiltration and deposit of salts within test stents.
The aforementioned results indicated that the salinity used during the fixation of stents 
influenced not  only their configurations but also their mechanical properties. After fixation, it was 
noted that the stents fixed in a salt concentration of 0.02M or 0.1M PBS could maintain their 
original helical configurations (Fig. 1a). However, the mechanical properties (strain-at-fracture and 
ultimate compression load, Table 1) of the stent fixed at 0.1M PBS were inferior to those fixed at 
0.02M PBS, because of its larger porosity. Therefore, the stent fixed at 0.02M PBS was selected for 
the rest of the study.
The degree of crosslinking of test stents plays an important role in affecting their physical 
characteristics (mechanical property, degradability, and self-expansion ratio). As indicated in Table 
7
 In contrast, genipin reacts spontaneously  with the amine groups on chitosan to form a nitrogen-
iridoid, which undergoes dehydration to form an aromatic monomer. Dimerization occurs at the 
second stage, perhaps via a radical reaction [27]. Therefore, genipin can form a heterocyclic 
intermolecular crosslinking structure within the stent matrix. The heterocyclic crosslinking structure 
formed in the genipin stent matrix appeared denser than the linear crosslinking structure created in 
the epoxy  stent matrix, because of its bulky cyclic structures present (Fig. 5b). Therefore, the 
mechanical strength of the genipin stent was considerably greater than its epoxy counterpart. These 
results suggest that the cyclic crosslinking structures formed within the genipin stent matrix were 
beneficiary to the improvement of its mechanical property.
    Elastic deformation refers to changes in shape that disappear completely  after the release of 
external forces [28]. When external forces exceed the limit of elastic deformation, test stents 
become plastically deformed (or fractured) resulting in a permanent change of shape. As shown in 
Fig. 5a, the genipin stent was able to withstand deformations up to approximately 35% without 
fracture. However, when the compression strain reached about 10%, the metallic stent started to 
become deformed irreversibly. In other words, the tolerable compression load of the genipin stent 
was 1123 ± 77 mN at a compression strain of 35%, while that of the metallic stent was 861 ± 122 
mN at a compression strain of 10% (n = 5). Fig. 5c shows photographs of the genipin stent and the 
metallic stent, during and after compression, under a strain of 20%.
The cytotoxicity of the genipin stent  and the epoxy stent was qualitatively investigated using a 
live/dead cell viability assay (Fig. 6a) and quantitatively measured by the MTT assay (Fig. 6b). For 
the qualitative assay, calcein-AM hydrolysis in live cells produces a green fluorescence while 
ethidium homodimer only  enters cells with damaged membranes and produces a red fluorescence 
[14]. The cell viability obtained by  the MTT assay was expressed as a fraction of viable cells and 
normalized to that of cells without coincubation with test stents (control). The results indicated that 
the viability  of cells treated with the genipin stent was significantly greater than that  treated with the 
epoxy stent (P < 0.05), suggesting that the genipin stent developed in the study had a better 
cytocompatibility.
9
3.4. In vitro drug release
    Table 3 shows the dose, EE and EC of the genipin stents loaded with sirolimus. Results of the in 
vitro release profiles of the low-dose and high-dose stents with or without heparin coating are 
shown in Fig. 8. Compared to the stents without heparin coating, the stents with heparin coating 
provided a much slower sirolimus release (P < 0.05) and exhibited a nearly  linear sustained-release 
profile. After 60 days, the cumulative percentages of drug released from the low-dose and high-dose 
stents without heparin coating were both approximately 100%, while those released from the stents 
with heparin coating were significantly reduced to about 33% (the low-dose stent) or 20% (the 
high-dose stent). The sustained release of sirolimus from the stents with heparin coating implies that 
the hydrophobic heparin coating can serve as an effective diffusion barrier and retard the release of 
drug.
3.5. Activity of the released drug
Vascular restenosis is a multifactorial process primarily  driven by  the remodeling of the 
arterial wall, as well as by  the hyperproliferation of smooth muscle cells (SMC). These 
pathophysiological features are the target of therapeutic strategies aimed at inhibiting constrictive 
remodeling as well as inhibiting SMC proliferation [33]. To evaluate the activity of the released 
sirolimus, the cell viabilities of RASMC cultured in a petri dish alone (untreated control) and those 
coincubated with the low-dose or high-dose stents were investigated using a live/dead assay (Fig. 
9a) and quantitatively measured by the MTT assay (Fig. 9b). As compared to the untreated control, 
the viabilities of cells treated with test stents (low-dose or high-dose stents) were significantly 
reduced due to the release of sirolimus with time; the anti-proliferative activities of the sirolimus 
released from the two test stents on RASMC were comparable (P > 0.05).
To demonstrate whether the released sirolimus could restrict RASMC in specific cell cycle 
stages, cell cycle analysis was performed by flow cytometry. As shown in Fig. 10, after starvation 
for 18 h, RASMC were successfully synchronized to G0. Compared to the untreated control, the 
percentages observed in the S + G2/M phase for the groups treated with free sirolimus (5 or 10 µg/
ml) or test stents (low-dose or high-dose stents) were significantly  reduced and instead mostly  in 
the G1 phase (Fig. 10). These results demonstrated that the released sirolimus from test stents still 
possessed its intrinsic drug activity in restricting RASMC proliferation during G1, which was 
11
4. Conclusions
In this report, we successfully developed a polymeric stent fixed by genipin which has a cyclic 
molecular structure. The genipin stent exhibited improved mechanical properties and showed a 
better cytocompatibility than its counterpart fixed by  a linear epoxy compound. The results obtained 
in the animal study demonstrated that the genipin stent can be readily deployed into arteries using a 
French sheath. Reendothelialization of the stent-implanted vessel wall was observed at  retrieval. 
After loading with sirolimus, the genipin stent coated with heparin allowed the release of drug in a 
sustained manner. The released sirolimus remained its activity in inhibiting smooth muscle cell 
proliferation by  inducing cell-cycle arrest in G1 phase. The aforementioned results indicate that the 
genipin stent can serve as a drug delivery vehicle for the treatment of vascular restenosis.
13
with a bovine jugular vein graft fixed with a naturally occurring crosslinking agent (genipin) in 
a canine model. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2001; 122:1209–1218. 
[13] Stryer L. Biochemistry 3rd Ed. Freeman Press: New York, 1998. p. 50–55.
[14] Kretsinger JK, Haines LA, Ozbas B, Pochan DJ, Schneider JP. Cytocompatibility of self-
assembled beta-hairpin peptide hydrogel surfaces. Biomaterials 2005;26:5177–5186.
[15] Porter JR, Henson A, Popat KC. Biodegradable poly(epsilon-caprolactone) nanowires for bone 
tissue engineering applications. Biomaterials 2009;30:780–788.
[16] Smith PK, Mallia AK, Herrmanson GT. Colorimetric method for the assay of heparin content 
in immobilized heparin preparations. Anal Biochem 1980;109:466–473.
[17] Blindt R, Vogt F, Astafieva I, Fach C, Hristov M, Krott N, et al. A novel drug-eluting stent 
coated with an integrin-binding cyclic Arg-Gly-Asp peptide inhibits neointimal hyperplasia by 
recruiting endothelial progenitor cells. J Am Coll Cardiol 2006;47:1786–1795.
[18] Vogt F, Stein A, Rettemeier G, Krott N, Hoffmann R, vom Dahl J, et al. Long-term assessment 
of a novel biodegradable paclitaxel-eluting coronary  polylactide stent. Eur Heart  J 
2004;25:1330–1340.
[19] Chen MC, Tsai HW, Liu CT, Peng SF, Lai WY, Chen SJ, et al. A nanoscale drug-entrapment 
strategy for hydrogel-based systems for the delivery of poorly soluble drugs. Biomaterials 
2009;30:2102–2111.
[20] Marx SO, Jayaraman T, Go LO, Marks AR. Rapamycin-FKBP inhibits cell cycle regulators of 
proliferation in vascular smooth muscle cells. Circ Res 1995;76:412–417.   
[21] Rosner D, McCarthy N, Bennett M. Rapamycin inhibits human in stent restenosis vascular 
smooth muscle cells independently  of pRB phosphorylation and p53. Cardiovasc Res 
2005;66:601–610.
[22] Hu Y, Jiang X, Ding Y, Ge H, Yuan Y, Yang C. Synthesis and characterization of chitosan-poly
(acrylic acid) nanoparticles. Biomaterials 2002;23:3193–3201.
[23] Ostroha J, Pong M, Lowman A, Dan N. Controlling the collapse/swelling transition in charged 
hydrogels. Biomaterials 2004;25:4345–4353.
[24] Petrache HI, Zemb T, Belloni, L, Parsegian VA. Salt screening and specific ion adsorption 
determine neutral-lipid membrane interactions. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2006;103:7982–7987. 
[25] Hirano S, Tsuchida H, Nagao N. N-acetylation in chitosan and the rate of its enzymic 
15
Tables and Figures
Table 1. Mechanical properties (strain-at-fracture and ultimate compression load) and porosity  and 
pore size (cross-section) of test stents fixed at distinct salt concentrations (n = 5).
0M (DI Water) 0.01M PBS 0.02M PBS 0.1M PBS
Strain-at-fracture (%) 49.8 ± 5.9 38.7 ± 4.1 34.2 ± 3.7 28.3 ± 2.1
Ultimate Compression Load (mN) 645 ± 167 1223 ± 172 1123 ± 76 995 ± 115
Porosity (%) 18.3 ± 1.2 28.8 ± 4.3 40.3 ± 2.5 55.1 ± 3.3
Pore Size (nm) 8.9 ± 3.8 11.9 ± 1.1 12.8 ± 3.9 15.2 ± 4.2
17
Table 3. Encapsulation efficiency (EE), encapsulation content (EC) and dose of test genipin stents 
loaded with sirolimus (n = 5).
EE (%) EC (%) Dose (µg/cm stent)
Low Dose 51.4 ± 1.4 0.86 ± 0.03 48.9 ± 3.1
High Dose 75.8 ± 1.2 1.58 ± 0.10 102.7 ± 8.0
19
Figure 2. SEM  micrographs of the cross-sectional views of test stents fixed at distinct salt 
concentrations.
DI 
0.02M PBS 0.1M PBS 
0.01M PBS 
21
Figure 4. Schematic illustrations of the crimped (dried) stent that can be delivered into an artery via 
a 5.0 French sheath and then self-expand to its expanded (hydrated) state and fix in the 
artery.
French sheath 
deploying stent 
expanded (hydrated) stent 
infrarenal abdominal aorta 
2.3-2.4 mm 5 FR 
crimped (dried) stent 
5.0 French sheath 
loading test stent (in crimped 
state) into a French sheath 
test stent self-expanding and then 
mounting (fixing) in the artery 
1.5 mm 
23
Figure 5. (a) Results obtained in the compression test for different test stents; (b) schematic 
illustrations of the crosslinking structures formed in the genipin stent  and the epoxy  stent 
and effects of the crosslinking structures on their mechanical strength; (c) photographs of 
elastic deformations of the metallic stent and the genipin stent under a compression strain of 
20%; the apparatus used in the compression test is schematically illustrated.
During Compression (Compression Strain = 20%) 
After Compression 
Genipin  
Stent 
Metallic  
Stent 
Platen 
Platen 
c 
Genipin  
Stent 
Metallic  
Stent 
25
Figure 7. Photographs of (a) a genipin stent (indicated by the blue arrow) after deployment in the 
rabbit infrarenal abdominal aorta and (b) the stent-implanted vessel retrieved at  24 h after 
incision of the aorta. Results of the vascular responses to stent implantation at 1 week (c−e) 
and 3 months (f−h) postoperatively; (c,f) photomicrographs of hematoxylin and eosin 
staining sections of the stent-implanted vessel. CLSM images show (d, g) macrophage 
infiltration and (e, h) reendothelialization of the same sections. The immunofluorescence 
was performed with mouse anti-rabbit macrophages (RAM11, green), mouse anti-human 
a b 
c 
f 
     Nuclei  Macrophage  d Nuclei Endothelial cells  e 
1 
W
ee
k 
3 
M
on
th
s 
     Nuclei  Macrophage  g Nuclei Endothelial cells  h 
200 µm 
200 µm 
40.00 µm 
40.00 µm 40.00 µm 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
27
Figure 8. Cumulative release profiles of sirolimus from the genipin stents with different 
formulations.
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70
0
20
40
60
80
100
 
 
Low-dose Stent 
High-dose Stent
Low-dose Stent w/ Heparin Coating
High-dose Stent w/ Heparin Coating
C
um
ul
at
iv
e 
R
el
ea
se
 (%
)
Time (day)
(n = 5) 
29
images showing the viability  of RASMC following treatment with test stents for distinct 
time periods; (b) results of their MTT assay. Control: RASMC cultured in a polystyrene dish 
alone.
31
表 Y04 
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助 
國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
 
 
 
 
會議名稱：2011 Chinese Pharmaceutical Conference 
 
服務機構及職稱：清大化工所 
會議時間：2011/10/13~2011/10/14 
報告人姓名：宋信文 
核定補助文號：NSC -2221-E-007-003-MY3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
表 Y04 
一、參加會議經過 
  本屆2011 Chinese Pharmaceutical Conference是由中國藥學會所主辦，從
2011年10月13日至2011年10月14日，為期兩天的會議。報告人於台灣時間
2011年10月12日由台北桃園中正機場搭乘長榮航空飛抵上海-浦東國際機
場，並於13日搭乘地鐵前往會場領取議程。在本次會議中，主辦單位將研
討會分為國際學者邀請演講、口頭報告及論文壁報展示等，約有300百篇論
文發表。會議時間由早上八點半開始至下午六點半，會議議程主要分為6個
session，主題分別為:  
 
 S1.Improving oral bioavailability using nanotechnology  
 
 S2.Nanotechnology for delivery of difficult-to-delivery pharmaceuticals  
 
 S3.Precise polymers for targeted therapeutic nucleic acid delivery  
 
  S4.Characterization of depot formulations for joint injection  
 
  S5.pH-Responsive Nanoparticles for Oral Delivery of Protein Drugs  
 
  S6.Understanding dry powder inhalers using pulsed laser based high speed imaging  
 
techniques  
 
 
  此次本人發表的論文為大會邀請的口頭論文報告，所報告的題目是
pH-Responsive Nanoparticles for Oral Delivery of Protein Drugs 會中，有許多
學者對於論文細節提出問題並進行討論，且提供許多想法與意見讓本人獲
益頗多，對於研究領域更是激發許多創新的想法。 
表 Y04 
pH-Responsive Nanoparticles for Oral Delivery of Protein Drugs 
 
Kiran Sonaje1, Er-Yuan Chuang1, Liwen Hsu1, Kun-Ju Lin2, Fwu-Long Mi3,  
Chiung-Tong Chen4, Jyuhn-Huarng Juang5, Hsing-Wen Sung1* 
 
1 Department of Chemical Engineering, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan, ROC 
2 Department of Medical Imaging and Radiological Sciences, Chang Gung University and Memoril 
Hospital, Taoyuan, Taiwan, ROC 
3 Department of Biotechnology, Vanung University, Chungli, Taoyuan, Taiwan, ROC 
4 Division of Medical Engineering Research, National Health Research Institutes, Zhunan, Miaoli, 
Taiwan, ROC 
5 Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Chang Gung University and Memorial Hospital, Taoyuan, 
Taiwan, ROC 
*hwsung@che.nthu.edu.tw 
Oral route is considered to be the most convenient and comfortable means of drug administration for patients.  
Nevertheless, oral administration of hydrophilic macromolecules such as peptide/protein drugs is encountered with 
many difficulties.  To overcome these difficulties, a pH-sensitive nanoparticle (NP) carrier system, self-assembled by 
chitosan (CS) and poly-γ-glutamic acid (γ-PGA), is developed for paracellular transports of insulin.  Our results 
demonstrate that oral administration of insulin-loaded NPs shows a significant hypoglycemic action in diabetic rats and 
the corresponding relative bioavailability of insulin is approximately 15%.  These findings suggest that the developed 
NP system is a promising carrier for improved transmucosal delivery of insulin in the small intestine.  Besides insulin, 
this NP carrier system is expected to be a platform for oral delivery of hydrophilic macromolecules such as other 
pharmaceutically active peptides/proteins, glycosaminoglycans and oligonucleotides.  We are now studying the 
detailed mechanism of tight-junction opening by CS or its derivatives which is of paramount importance and needs to 
be established to aid further development in the use of NPs for oral delivery of hydrophilic macromolecules. 
 
Keywords: poster; Nano-enabled drug delivery technologies; Chitosan, insulin, oral delivery 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/05/23
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 具有形狀記憶且可快速自我膨脹之生物可分解式藥物釋放型血管支架之研發：
體外與體內實驗
計畫主持人: 宋信文
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-007-003-MY3 學門領域: 生醫材料
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
