中文摘要
本計劃將研究高速(1G HZ 級) CMOS 的相位鎖定迴路(PLL)之電路設計‚此相位鎖定
迴路(PLL)包含四區塊‚相位偵測器(Phase Detectors (including charge pump)), 迴路濾波器
(loop filter),壓控振盪器(VCO (voltage controlled oscillator)) ,除頻器‧
本計畫乃設計一具有高”追蹤性”的相位鎖定迴路 PLL,一般而言,相位鎖定乃電路
包含了相位偵測器(Phase Detector),迴路濾波器(Loop Filter) (Charge Pump),電壓控制振盪
器(VCO),及電荷幫浦電路…等部分[4-5]。若考慮真實的相位偵測器電路,吾人可發現相位
鎖定迴路事實上是一個非線性的控制系統[4-6]。而針對此一非線性控制系統,吾人可用描
述函數法 (Describing Function Method), 將相位偵測器(PFD)諧波線性化 (Harmonic
Linearization),最後吾人可證明此一相位鎖定迴路控制系統乃是一非線性的 Lur’e 
problem[7-11]。 而針對此一 Lure Problem,吾人可用 Circle Criterion 來用以決定非線性系統
的增益邊界 GM(Gain Margin),以設計迴路濾波器以確保系統的穩定度。
本計劃將根據 TSMC 0.25 m 的製程(電壓 2.5 V) , 本計劃將設計約 1 Giga HZ 級的
CMOS 的相位鎖定迴路(PLL)之電路, 本計劃將仔細探討如何增加壓控振盪器(VCO (voltage
controlled oscillator)的頻率,另針對迴路濾波器(loop filter),吾人將探討整個相位鎖定迴路
(PLL)之迴授控制,最後吾人將仔細探討除頻器之電路,最後本報告將考慮 Layout 造成的雜
散電容及由 CADENCE 軟體模擬結果以驗證上述的電路‧
英文摘要
Abstract
This project performs the design of CMOS transistor level of a Digital
Phased-Locked-loop (PLL). The design methodology is to break PLL into four separate blocks.
高速鎖相迴路之非線性特性研究(計畫中文名稱)
HIGH-SPEED PLL CIRCUIT DESIGNS(計畫英文名稱)
目錄
封面 ………………………………………………………………………1
中、英摘要…………………………………………………………………2
目錄…………………………………………………………………………3
報告內容……………………………………………………………………4
參考文獻………………………………………………………………….19
計畫成果自評表…………………………………………………………..27
Fig2a The Circuit Diagram of Charged-Pumped Phase Detector
Fig2b.Input-output timing sequence of Phase detector (linear approximation)
The Block Diagram of PLL
The block diagram of overall PLL can be shown as Fig.3,where pk is the gain of phase detector
in Fig.2a written as
pk = 2
DDV (1)
Fig.3 the block diagram of PLL
Then, according to the Circle Criterion, we have the following results:
Lemma 1: Consider the PLL system as shown in Fig.3, If ]0,[)( pke  and
))(min(Re
1 jG
k p
 (3)
where


j
jFk
jG v
)(
)( 
, then the overall PLL system is globally asymptotically stable.
Proof: If the transfer function G(s) satisfies Eq.(3), then the Extended Nyquist Diagram[7-11] for
the overall PLL system can be shown in the following Figure.
Fig.6 The Extended Nyquist Diagram
According to the Circle Criterion[] , the overall system is globally asymptotically stable.
In Fig.6, ))(min(
1 jG
k p
 is the so called gain margin written as
))(min(
1 jG
k
GM
p
 (4)
where 2Dp
Kk 
Design Specifications of PLL
The design specifications can be written as follows:
CMOS Technology: TSMC 0.25µm Voltage supply: 2.5 V
1. A rising edge from the dclock and data must be present when doing a phase comparison.
2. The width of the dclock and the data is irrelevant.
3. The PFD will not lock on a harmonic of the data.
4. The outputs (up and down) of the PFD are both logic low when the loop is in look,
eliminating ripple on the output of the loop filter.
5. This PFD has poor noise rejection; a false edge on either the data or the dclock inputs will
drastically affect the output of the PFD.
The output of the PFD should be combined into a single output for driving the loop filter.
Fig.8: The Diagram for PFD
Charge Pump
The purpose of the charge pump is to feed current pulse that either charge or dis charge the loop
capacitor. The inputs to the charge pump are (Charge Up) and (Charge Down) respectively. These
inputs are outputs of the phase detector that control two switches is the charge pump circuit. As a
shown in the simplified schematic, if (Charge Up) is asserted, up switch will be shorted, and a
constant current, I, will charge the load capacitor. Similarly if (Charge Down) is asserted, the
lower switch will be shorted, and a constant current, I, will discharge the load capacitor. The
capacitor will be charged up or down depending on the phase difference between the two input
signals of the phase detector. This needs in a voltage that rises or falls controlling the VCO.
A detailed schematic of the Charge-Pump is shown in figure.
to the control voltage. The schematics, simulations and layout of VCO can be shown in
Fig.10-Fig.12 respectively.
Fig.10: the schematics for VCO
Fig.11 The simulation results for VCO
slave uses an N-MOS transistor for the corresponding enable signal. The output signal of the
sub-block is inverted before it is fed back. The figure below depicts the sub-block circuit.
Each sub-block in the prescaler is essentially a toggle flip-flop or a flip-flop with negative
feedback. Cascading three in series will yield the necessary divisor of 8. The output frequency
from the VCO is fed to the input clock signal of the first divider. The output signal of the first
divider is fed into the input clock signal of the second divider and so forth. The cascade
arrangement is shown in the figure below. The last divider will wait for eight clock pulses from
the input frequency before toggling the output.
The circuit of pre-scaler is shown by the following figure.
Fig.13: Schematics of Pre-scaler
The simulation results for the pre-scaler is shown in the following Figure.
Fig.16: The Overall schematics
Loop Filter
In this project, the loop filter can be shown in Fig.17. Then the transfer function for the loop
filter can be shown as follows:
1
2
2 1
1
1 2
2 1
1
( )
1 ( )1
cp
pump
C sC sV R C s
H s
C sI R C s R C s
  
  
(10)
where cpV is the output voltage to the loop filter (input voltage to VCO)
pumpI is the (saturated) current for the charge pump.
The layout of overall system can be shown in the following figure.
Fig. 19: Layout of overall system
Conclusions
In this project, first, we try to analysis the PLL loop with a more rigorous approach. A sufficient
condition to ensure the overall PLL loop is globally asymptotically stable. Also, we design a
DPLL with the frequency more than 1 GHZ. Also, How to increase the frequency of VCO is fully
investigated. For the loop filter, we further study the behavior of PLL influenced by the loop filter.
In addition, for the block of Divide by N (counter), we further apply the designs of a pre-scaler
and a programmable frequency divider.
Consider the overall loop transfer function, we find that as seen in Fig. 17, 1R plays like a KI
controller (It helps to reduce the steady state error; however, its disadvantages are that it may
result in the instability of the overall system). 21/ R acts like a KP controller. 2R cannot be too
small such that the overall system may be unstable. 2C acts like a KD controller. It increases the
system’s stability.
As to the VCO, to increase the oscillation frequency, we cannot increase the number of stages N
in VCO. (In our project, we just use N=3, however, the disadvantage is that the oscillation
frequency is non-longer linear proportional to the input voltage) Also, in the ring oscillator stage,
we make the size (W,L) of CMOS inverter as smaller as possible. However, the size of ring
oscillator are very small. The driving capability of the VCO is not enough, therefore, we need a
buffer stage to increase the driving capability. (In this project, we just use 1 stage inverter;
however, we may increase to three-stage inverter to increase the driving capability). Also, it
