 2 
 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
無線感測網路之階層式能源管理協定之研究 
A Hierarchical Energy Conservation Protocol in Wireless Sensor 
Networks 
計畫編號：NSC95-2221-E011-115 
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：陳省隆 教授  國立台灣科技大學 電子工程系 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：兆天佑、鍾惠如、路艾妮、彭崇聖 
 
一、中文摘要 
 
無 線 感 測 網 路 （ Wireless Sensor 
Network，WSN）是由一群感測節點（sensor 
nodes）所組成的網路結構，這些感測節點
將感測環境所得之資料藉由射頻（Radio 
Frequency，RF）週期性地廣播到接收端
（sinks）。 
    由於節點所攜帶的能源是有限的，因
此在無線感測網路裡能源有效性（energy 
efficiency）策略變成一個重要的議題。GAF
（geographical adaptive fidelity）協定根據
連結支配集（connected dominating set，
CDS）的概念，設計出以網格為基礎的結
構，將整個網路拓樸切割成數個相等的正
四邊形網格，稱為虛擬網格（ virtual 
grids），並且在每個網格中只需要一個唯
一的節點來參與封包轉送。 
本研究計畫旨在提出一階層式能源管
理（Hierarchical Energy Conservation，HEC）
省電協定，為了增加無線傳輸覆蓋範圍，
我們以正六邊形的網格切割方式取代GAF 
所提出的正四邊形方式，並且加上階層式
群組控管機制。這樣一來不但有效延長網
路生命時間（network lifetime），並能維持
適當的封包傳輸率（delivery ratio）與傳送
延遲（latency）。 
 
 
關鍵詞：無線感測網路、能源有效性、省
電、連結支配集、GAF、HEC、網路生命
時間、封包傳輸率、封包傳送延遲。 
 
 
Abstract 
 
A WSN (Wireless Sensor Network) is a 
network consisting of a set of sensor nodes. 
They transmit their sensed data to sinks 
periodically via radio frequency (RF) circuit. 
Energy efficiency is a critical issue in 
wireless sensor networks since the nodes are 
energy-limited devices. GAF (geographical 
adaptive fidelity) protocol derived the 
grid-based architecture based on the idea of 
connected dominating set. GAF divides the 
whole network area into disjointly identical 
square grids, called virtual grids; in each grid, 
there is only one node for forwarding 
packets. 
In order to increase the coverage of 
wireless transmission, we divide the whole 
network area into disjointly hexagonal grids 
instead of square grids and employ the 
hierarchical group control mechanism. It not 
only prolongs the lifetime of wireless sensor 
networks but also achieves high delivery 
ratio and low latency. 
 
 
Keywords 
WSN, energy efficiency, power-saving, 
connected dominating set, GAF, HEC, 
network lifetime, delivery ratio, latency. 
. 
 
二、緣由與目的 
 
近年來在硬體技術與電子邏輯設計上
面愈來越偏向輕（light ）、小（small）、
 4 
選擇一個可與鄰近的群組連接的唯一一個
活動節點，使其成為該群組的領導者，這
樣可以確保叢集之間的各群組是連結的，
同時將該群組中其餘網格的活動節點將進
入睡眠狀態，第三階段是系統的穩態階段
（stable phase），主要工作是維持當節點
移動或是節點能源耗盡時所導致的連結斷
開（disconnected）問題，系統將會自動依
據新的網路拓樸來調整，重新為群組選出
新的領導者，以便維持網路的連結性。網
格初始階段與群組初始階段預估在系統初
始前數十秒執行，因此節點並不會進入睡
眠狀態，只有在穩態階段時，節點才有機
會進入睡眠狀態。我們假設節點的位置可
以隨時根據GPS（Global PositionSystem）
來得到最新的資訊。 
 
圖五：系統協定堆疊 
 
2. HEC 設計概念 
在討論演算法之前必須先說明HEC 設
計上的一些概念並且定義相關名詞。HEC 
設計上將整個網路拓樸以正六邊形的網格
（grid）加以切割，網格為最基本的結構，
而19 個正六邊形的網格所組成的結構我們
稱為叢集（cluster），如圖六。 
如圖七，我們在HEC 的設計上要求任
何三格虛擬網格必須能夠彼此通訊，為了
保持連結性，我們必須重新計算每個虛擬
網格的最大邊長，假設無線傳輸的訊號範
圍是R，而虛擬網格的邊長是r，我們可以
得到以下的方程式： 
 
 
或是 
 
 
我們的假設是將網路拓樸之中心座標
設為（0, 0），以及每個節點座標（node_X, 
node_Y）。我們提出一套座標單位轉換，
將原本的座標系轉換成我們自定的座標
系。根據圖六，我們設定橫座標的單位為
1.5r，縱座標的單位為 3 r 。將node_X及
node_Y分別除以1.5r及 3 r ，轉換成新座
標，以後所談的座標均為新座標。由於叢
集排列的方式是固定的，叢集的中心座標
可事先推算出來，以下簡稱叢集座標，如
圖八。節點座標與所有的叢集座標依序比
較，最短距離者代表此叢集為該節點所在
之叢集，我們將此叢集座標紀錄在節點
中，以（node.cid_x, node.cid_y）表示，簡
稱節點叢集座標。節點座標減去節點叢集
座標可得節點相對座標，接著我們再將節
點相對座標與圖六的所有的網格相對座標
依序比較，最短距離者代表此網格為該節
點所在之網格，我們將此網格相對座標紀
錄在節點中，以（node.gid_x, node.gid_y）
表示。最後我們利用節點叢集座標及網格
相對座標，便可以正確界定每個節點所屬
之叢集與網格位置。 
 
圖六：HEC的網格相對座標與叢集示意圖 
 
圖七：HEC的虛擬網格 
 6 
3.HEC演算法 
 
3.1 網格初始階段（grid initial phase） 
在網格初始階段主要目的是確保每個
網格之中至少都有一個節點處於活動狀
態，系統一開始，我們假設所有的節點都
處於發現狀態，節點聆聽頻道一段時間之
後便將自己的Td計時器減1直至為0，假設
位於相同網格之所有節點，沒有任何一個
節點先倒數完畢，則將自己設為較高優的
隸屬群組下，同時廣播beacon，並且將自
己的狀態設定為活動狀態。同理如果節點
在自己倒數完畢之前，便收到來自相同網
格中的節點的beacon，則代表有節點已經
先進入活動狀態，此時，節點必須重新計
算Td計時器。此外，如果節點收到來自任
何節點轉傳過來之階段2 轉換訊息（即
CP2msg），則將自己的階段轉換至群組初
始階段，並且重新廣播這個訊息。圖十為
HEC網格初始階段的DISCOVERY STATE
演算法。 
 
圖十：HEC網格初始階段的DISCOVERY  
STATE演算法 
當節點進入活動狀態後便開始擔任這
個網格的領導者，執行封包轉傳的工作。
每當工作一個時段之後便檢查節點是否
handoff。假如節點已經handoff，則在設定
Td計時器之後將自己的狀態轉換成發現狀
態，其目的是再接下的時間內可以方便重
新選擇出新的領導者。如果不湊巧剛好同
時有兩個節點進入活動狀態，當這兩個節
點開始工作時必定會收到彼此的beacon，
我們只要將節點等級較低者的狀態重新轉
換回發現狀態，該節點也必須重新計算Td
計時器。同樣地，如果節點收到來自任何
節點轉傳過來之階段2 轉換訊息（即
CP2msg），則將自己的階段轉換至群組初
始階段，並且重新廣播這個訊息。圖十一
為HEC網格初始階段的ACTIVE STATE演 
算法。 
 
圖十一：HEC網格初始階段的ACTIVE 
STATE演算法 
 
3.2 群組初始階段（group initial phase） 
群組初始階段主要工作是在每個群組
中，選擇一個可與鄰近的群組連接的唯一
一個活動節點，使其成為該群組的領導
者，而該群組中其他網格的活動狀態節點
則轉換至發現狀態。當節點處於發現狀態
時，節點必須每聆聽頻道一段時間之後便
將自己的Td計時器減1 直至為0。計時器歸
0時，假設節點的優先權值為0，則將自己
的群組設定為高優先權的那一個隸屬權
組，同時廣播beacon，並且將自己的狀態
設定為活動狀態；如果節點的優先權值不
為0，也沒有收到來自高優先權隸屬群組的
節點傳來的beacon，則將自己的群組設定
為高優先權的那一個隸屬群組，反之，假
如收到來自低優先權隸屬群組的節點傳來
的beacon，則將自己的群組設定為低優先
權的那一個隸屬權組。相反地，如果節點
在Td倒數完畢之前，便收到來自任何一個
隸屬群組中的其他活動節點廣播的
beacon，則代表已有節點已經先進入活動
狀態，則該點必須重新計算Td計時器。此
外，如果節點收到來自任何節點轉傳過來
之階段3 轉換訊息（即CP3msg），則將自
己的階段轉換至下一個階段，並且重新廣
播這個訊息。圖十二為HEC群組初始階段 
的DISCOVERY STATE演算法。 
 
 8 
 
圖十四：HEC穩態階段的DISCOVERY 
STATE演算法 
節點進入睡眠狀態之後便倒數Ts計時
器，直Ts計時器歸0後便重新設定節點的Td
計時器並且將該節點的狀態轉換成發現狀
態。圖十六為H E C穩態階段的S LE E P  
STATE演算法。 
 
圖十五：HEC穩態階段的ACTIVE STATE
演算法 
 
圖十六：HEC穩態階段的SLEEP STATE演
算法 
 
 
四、結果與討論 
 
4.1 網路生存時間的延長 
為了方便說明網路生存時間的延長
性，我們定義剩餘存活節點比例（Fraction 
of survived nodes）來說明。隨著模擬時間
的增加，我們觀察剩餘存活節點比例下降
的趨勢，在某一模擬時間點，剩餘存活節
點比例越高代表越能延長網路的生存時 
間。 
圖十七~十八表示的[GAF, x]或[HEC, 
x]為停留時間為 x 的模擬曲線。圖十七為
移動速度 0-1m/s 之間（低速的情況下）的
模擬結果，圖十八則為移動速度 0-20m/s
之間（高速的情況下）的模擬結果。根據
我們所模擬的 30 個隨機拓樸的結果，分別
找出其第一次連續 m次傳輸失敗時系統的
剩餘存活節點比例，並且將其平均即為平
均剩餘存活節點比例。圖十七與圖十八的
虛線標示 m 由 1至 20，分別代表不同的網
路連結性程度。 m 不低於 10 的平均剩餘
存活節點比例大約在 20%左右，表示此時
的網路傳輸效率很差，因此，我們定義有
效的網路生存時間為模擬時間開始至某一
傳輸對（communication-pairs）第一次發生
連續 10次傳輸失敗。模擬結果顯示，無論
是在任何速度下或是停留時間的長短， 
HEC 在網路生存時間皆優於 GAF。 
以下我們以平均剩餘存活節點率大於 
20%當作系統的有效網路生存時間。 
低速時，[HEC-bas, 0]網路生存時間約
為 1150秒，[HEC-bas, 900]約為 1050秒，
[HEC-enh, 0]約為 1120秒，[HEC-enh, 900]
約為 1250秒，[GAF, 0]約為 950秒，[GAF, 
900]約為 930 秒。整體看來，各協定的網
路生存時間依序為 [ HEC-enh ,  900]、
[HEC-bas, 0]、[HEC-enh, 0]、[HEC-bas, 
900]、[GAF, 0]、[GAF, 900]、[AODV]。
HEC-bas 與 HEC-enh 在低速且停留時間短
的表現相近，主要的因素為 HEC-enh 的 Ts
 10 
生的延遲，如路徑搜尋延遲、在介面佇列
等候、重傳的延遲、鏈結修復的時間與傳 
輸的時間等。 
在 4.1 節的模擬結果顯示，在能源預設
為 500 焦耳的限制之下，AODV 的網路生
存時間約只能維持在 450 秒左右，因此，
以下我們所量測的封包傳送率以及平均資
料傳送延遲，皆為模擬時間前 450 秒的平 
均值。 
 
4.2.1 封包傳送率 
圖十九是移動速度 0-1m/s 之間（低速
的情況下）的模擬結果，圖二十則為移動
速度 0-20m/s 之間（高速的情況下）的模擬
結果。由於節點執行 AODV 協定總是處於
醒著的狀態，使得連結性較佳，所以封包
傳送率也較高。GAF 會將一些節點強制進
入休眠，使得當節點移出網格時會出現網
格無人接管的問題，導致連結性被破壞而
降低封包傳送率。HEC 進入休眠狀態的節
點又比 GAF 多，連結性被破壞的情形更為
嚴重。雖然我們所提出的 HEC 在三個協定
中表現最差，然而它們的封包傳送率相差 
約 2%，但還在使用者可以接受的範圍。 
一般情況下，停留時間越長代表拓樸
越固定，鏈結也比較不容易斷開，封包傳
送率越佳。但是，在低速的情況下，停留
時間越長表現卻越差，這是因為移動較
慢，節點醒來檢查活動節點的頻率較低，
而且模擬所使用的 Random way-point 
m o d e l 以 及 有 限 制 的 模 擬 區 域
（1500x300），導致節點移動到中間的區
域的機率較高，而移動到邊緣區域的機率
較低，使得位於網路拓樸較邊緣的群組的
節點被其他節點接管的機率較低，當這些
群組裡的節點被用盡，連結性將被破壞，
此為低速、停留時間長情況下，封包傳送 
率降低的主因。 
在高速的情況下，雖然越頻繁的移動
越容易造成鏈結的斷開，但是快速移動讓
節點醒來檢查活動節點更為頻繁，彌補了
鏈結斷開所導致的封包遺失，而較短的停
留時間又比起停留時間長的情況表現略
差，因為停留時間短使得拓樸變化較大，
系統受到鏈結斷開的影響降低了封包傳送 
率。 
在低速的情況下，由於 HEC-enh 的 Ts
為 47 秒，HEC-enh 的封包傳輸率與
HEC-bas 相近，但是當節點高速移動時，
HEC-enh 定值 Ts 的設計無法適時地根據速
度調整節點喚醒的頻率，這是 HEC-enh 在
高速情況下表現比 HEC-bas 差的主因。 
 
圖十九：封包傳送率：移動速度 0-1 m/s 
 
圖二十：封包傳送率：移動速度 0-20 m/s 
 
4.2.2 平均資料傳送延遲 
圖二十一為移動速度 0-1m/s 之間（低
速的情況下）的模擬結果，在低速的情況
下四個協定的平均延遲相差雖然不大，但
是仔細分析下，AODV 的平均延遲稍高於
GAF、HEC-bas 與 HEC-enh，因為節點執
行 AODV 協定並不休眠，在繞送時參予繞
 12 
的移動模式。（三）我們假設的 10 個資料
流節點預設能源為無限大，這也與實際應
用差異太大，未來應該考慮給予資料流節
點合理的預設能源，將會更逼近真實。 
 
 
六、參考文獻 
[1]  The VINT Project, “The network simulator - 
ns-2,” 2004, available: 
http://www.isi.edu/nsnam/ns/. 
[2] Y. Xu, J. Heidemann, and D. Estrin, 
“Geography-informed energy conservation for 
ad hoc routing,” in Proceedings of the 7th 
Annual International Conference on Mobile 
Computing and Networking, pp.70-84, 2001. 
[3] J. Wu, F. Dai, M. Gao and I. Stojmenovic, “On 
calculating power-aware connected dominating 
sets forefficient routing in ad hoc wireless 
networks,” Journal of Communications and 
Networks 4, pp. 59-70,2002. 
[4] K. Scott and N. Bambos, “Routing and channel 
assignment for low power transmission in pcs,” 
in Proceeding of 5th IEEE International 
Conference on Universal Personal 
Communication, vol. 2, pp.498-502, 1996. 
[5] S. Singh, M. Woo, and C. Raghavenda, 
“Power-aware routing in mobile ad hoc 
networks,” in Proceedings of the 4th Annual 
ACM/IEEE International Conference on Mobile 
Computing and Networking, pp. 181-190, 1998. 
[6] C.-K. Toh, “Maximum battery life routing to 
support ubiquitous mobile computing in wireless 
ad hoc networks.,” IEEE Communications 
Magazine, vol. 39, pp. 138-147, 2001. 
[7] X. Hou and D. Tipper, “Gossip-based sleep 
protocol (gsp) for energy efficient routing in 
wireless ad hoc network,” in Proceedings of 
IEEE Wireless Communications and Networking 
Conference, vol.3, pp.1305-1310, 2004. 
[8] Y.-C. Tseng, C-S. Hsu, and T.-Y Hsieh. 
“Power-saving protocols for ieee 802.11-based 
multi-hop ad hoc networks,” in Proceeding of 
IEEE Twenty-First Annual Joint Conference of 
the IEEE Conputer and Communications 
Societies, vol. 1, pp. 200-209, 2002. 
[9] J.-R. Jiang, Y.-C. Tseng, C.-S. HsuandT.-Y 
Hsieh. “Quorum-based asynchronous 
power-saving protocols for ieee 802.11 ad hoc 
networks,” ACM Mobile Networks and 
Applications, vol. 10, pp. 169-181, 2005. 
[10] R. Zheng, J.C. Hou, and L. Sha. “Asynchronous 
wakeup for ad hoc networks,” in Proceedings of 
the 4th ACM International Symposium on Mobile 
Ad Hoc Networking & Computing, pp. 35-45, 
2003. 
[11] B. Chena, K. Jamueson, H. Balakrishnan, and 
R.Morris, “Span: An energy-efficient 
coordination algorithm for topology maintence 
in ad hoc wireless networks,” ACM Wireless 
Networks, vol.8, pp. 481-494, 2002. 
[12] P. Baul and V. N. Padmanabhan, “User location 
and tracking in an in-building radio network,” 
Techical Report MSR-TR-99-12, Microsoft 
Research, 1999. 
[13] N. Bulusu, J. Heidemann, and D. Estrin, 
“GPS-less low cost outdoor localization for very 
small devices,” IEEE Personal Communications 
Magazine, vol. 7(5), pp. 28-34, 2000. 
[14] L. Doherty, K. S. J. Pister, and L. E. Ghaoui, 
“Convex position estimation in wireless sensor 
networks,” in Proceedings of IEEE Infocom, 
vol.3, pp. 1655-1663, 2001. 
[15] J.Broch, D.A. Maltz, D.B. Johnson, Y. Hu, and J. 
Jetcheva, “A performance comparison of 
multi-hop wireless ad hoc networks routing 
protocols,” in Proceedings of the ACM/IEEE 
International Conference on Mobile Computing 
and Networking, 1998. 
[16] P. Johansson, T. Larsson, N. Hedman, B. 
Mielczarek, and M. Degermark, “Scenario-based 
preference analysis of routing protocols for 
mobile ad-hoc networks,” in Proceedings of the 
ACM/IEEE International Conference on Mobile 
Computing and Networking, pp. 195-206, 1999. 
[17] B. Das, and V. Bharghavan, “Routing in ad-hoc 
networks using minimum connected dominating 
sets,” in IEEE International Conference on 
Communications, pp. 376-380, 1997. 
[18] F. Dai, and J. Wu, “An extended localized 
algorithm for connected dominating set formation 
in ad hoc wireless networks,” IEEE Transactions 
on Parallel and Distributed Systems, vol. 15, pp. 
908-920, 2004. 
[19] C. Perkins, and E. Royer, “Ad-hoc on-demand 
distance vector routing,” in Proceedings of 2nd 
IEEEWorkshop on Mobile Computing Systems 
and Applications (WMCSA’99), pp. 90-100, 
1999. 
 
A HIERARCHICAL ENERGY CONSERVATION 
PROTOCOL IN MANETS 
Hsing-Lung Chen and Chih-Hung Lin 
Department of Electronic Engineering 
National Taiwan University of Science and Technology 
Taipei, Taiwan 
hlchen@mail.ntust.edu.tw, M9202119@mail.ntust.edu.tw 
ABSTRACT 
A Mobile Ad Hoc Network (MANET) is a network consisting of a set of mobile hosts. Energy efficiency is a critical 
issue in MANETs since mobile hosts are with limited energy. Geographical Adaptive Fidelity (GAF) protocol proposed 
the grid-based architecture based on the idea of connected dominating set. It divides the whole network area into disjoint 
identical square grids, called virtual grids. In each grid, there is only one node for forwarding packets to achieve power 
saving. In this paper, we propose the Hierarchical Energy Conservation protocol (HEC). In this protocol, in order to 
increase the coverage of wireless transmission, it divides the whole network area into disjoint hexagonal grids instead of 
square grids and employs the hierarchical group control mechanism. Mathematical analysis and simulation results show 
that the proposed protocol not only prolongs the lifetime of MANETs but also maintains appropriate packet delivery ratio 
and latency.  
KEYWORDS 
Connected dominating set, energy efficiency, latency, network lifetime, packet delivery ratio, power saving. 
1. INTRODUCTION 
MANET becomes popular recently in the field of wireless networks and mobile computing. A MANET is a 
network consisting of a set of mobile hosts being capable of communicating with each other. Each node is 
energy-limited, so energy-efficiency becomes an importance issue in MANETs. 
Many studies assume that the energy consumption in idle state is approximately equal to that in receiving 
or transmitting states (Xu, Heidemann and Estrin, 2001:70-84). When a MANET is working, many nodes are 
idle at most of the time instead of receiving or transmitting. Some routing protocols, such as AODV (Perkins 
and Royer, 1999:90-100) didn’t take into consideration the energy costs of nodes in idle state. Therefore, it 
has inspired academic research on energy saving. There were many energy efficiency strategies based on 
connected dominating set, such as SPAN (Chen et al. 2002:481-494) and GAF (Xu,  Heidemann and Estrin, 
2001:70-84). 
In SPAN, the backbone of the whole network was formed by the way of electing coordinators which 
forward packets for the non-coordinator nodes. GAF divides the network area into many virtual grids, 
ensuring that within one grid, only one node would be in active state and the other nodes would all be in 
sleep state to reduce energy consumption. Both SPAN and GAF can reduce energy consumption and thus 
extend network lifetime.  
When most of nodes with high speed are distributed across a MANET, rapid topology changing and 
coordinator changing of SPAN will result in lots of data exchanges. Thus, this heavy overhead will reduce 
system performance. Although GAF does not have the overhead like SPAN, its square virtual grid does not 
approximate to the circular coverage of signal transmission, resulting in a lot of signal overhearing. This will 
increase probability of collisions, leading to wasting energy. 
In this paper, the Hierarchical Energy Conservation (HEC) protocol is proposed. Hexagonal grids are 
employed, which approximates much more to the circular coverage of signal transmission, and the 
hierarchical design is used to reduce the number of active nodes by 25%. We have developed two versions of 
length r of each virtual grid can be derived: 222 )33( Rrr ≤+  or )28(Rr≤ , where R is the wireless radio 
propagation range. 
                     
Figure. 3. The Side Length.     Figure. 4. Cluster Coordinates of HEC.                      Figure. 5. Priorities for HEC groups. 
Assuming that the coordinate of central point of simulation area is (0, 0) and each node’s coordinate is 
(node_X, node_Y), we propose a conversion method to convert the original coordinate system to the new 
coordinate system (hereafter referred to as the scaled coordinate system). Let the horizontal coordinate unit 
be 1.5r, and the vertical coordinate unit be r3 . node_X and node_Y are divided by 1.5r and r3 , 
respectively, resulting in its scaled coordinate, represented by (Xs, Ys). 
We define each grid’s coordinate as the scaled coordinate of its central point. The straight lines of x=i and 
y=j, where i and j are integers, will partition the network area into square regions. There are two types of 
these square regions, type I and type II, as shown in Fig. 2. Let ⎣ ⎦sXa =  and ⎣ ⎦sYb = . If a is an even number, 
then the node (Xs, Ys) is within the type I region which is bounded by the central points of the three grids (a, 
b), (a, b+1), and (a+1, b+0.5). Otherwise, the node (Xs, Ys) is within the type II   region which is bounded 
by the central points of the three grids (a, b+0.5), (a+1, b), and (a+1, b+1). After calculating the distances 
from the node (Xs, Ys) to the central points of these three grids in the origin coordinate system, node (Xs, Ys) 
resides in the grid with the shortest distance. 
Then, we define each cluster’s coordinate as the scaled coordinate of its central point. The straight lines of 
y+2x=9.5u, and y+0.1x=3.8v, where u and v are integers, will partition the whole network area into 
parallelogram regions. Let ⎣ ⎦5.9/)2( ss XYa +=  and ⎣ ⎦8.3/)1.0( ss XYb +=  . The node (Xs, Ys) resides in a 
parallelogram region which is bounded by the central points of four clusters (5a-2b, -0.5a+4b), (5a-2b+5, -
0.5a+4b-0.5), (5a-2b-2, -0.5a+4b+4), and (5a-2b+3, -0.5a+4b+3.5). For example, in Fig. 4, the shadow 
parallelogram region is bounded by the central points of clusters (0, 0), (5, -0.5), (-2, 4) and (3, 3.5). After 
calculating the distances from the central point of the grid in which node (Xs, Ys) resides to the central points 
of these four clusters in the origin coordinate system, node (Xs, Ys) resides in the cluster with the shortest 
distance. 
The network area is partitioned into grids, where every 19 grids form one cluster. In order to effectively 
reduce the number of active nodes, our design requires that any pair of nodes within three connected virtual 
grids need to be able to communicate with each other. We classify grids into shared grids and unshared grids. 
For convenient explanation, unshared grids are duplicated, as shown in Fig. 5. The shared grids will be 
represented by dotted hexagons, while solid hexagons will represent unshared grids. Every cluster can be 
separated into seven groups and each shared grid can be shared by exactly two groups, as shown in Fig. 5. 
Only one node in each group will be elected as the leader, which will be responsible for forwarding packets. 
The priority values are between 0 and 3. 0 represents the highest priority, while 3 represents the lowest. 
Unshared grids are with the highest priority; that is, we have nodes in unshared grids be used first. Because 
each unshared grid is located in the center of its corresponding group, using the nodes in unshared grids can 
effectively cover the whole cluster.  
3.2  HEC-bas algorithm 
(assuming no HEC overhead), the above formula proves that we can extend the network lifetime by a factor 
of ))392/(357( 2 ARn ∗∗∗ , compared with pure AODV. For network lifetime, the ratio between GAF and HEC 
is ))392/(357(:))5/(( 22 ARnARn ∗∗∗∗∗ , approximately 1:1.25. By above mathematical derivation, we have 
theoretically proven that, in terms of network lifetime, HEC is 25% more effective than GAF. 
5. EXPERIMENTAL SIMULATIONS AND PERFORMANCE 
EVALUATION 
To assess the performance of those algorithms, we used the Berkeley Network Simulator 2 (version 2.28) to 
perform AODV, GAF, HEC-bas and HEC-enh protocols on a single machine (The VINT, 2004). During the 
simulation, nodes will move freely according to the Random way-point model (D. B. Johnson et al.1996) in a 
1500x300 square meters field. We consider two different node pause times: 0 and 900 seconds. Moving 
speeds will be evenly distributed between 0~1 m/s and 0~20 m/s (these two types of moving speeds represent 
the speeds of people and automobiles, respectively). We will separately simulate these different protocols 
under different pause times and moving speeds. 
Traffics were generated by continuous bit rate (CBR). Data packet is of size 512 bytes. Each CBR will 
send data from its source to its destination periodically. The packet rate is fixed at 20 packets per second for 
each CBR session. The maximum link bandwidth is 2Mb/s. We model a radio with a nominal range of 250 
meters under the Two-ray-ground Propagation model (Kasten, 2001) (Stemm and Katz, 1997:1125-1131) 
(Broch et al. 1998:85-97). 
Figs. 6 and 7 depict the simulation curves of GAF and HEC protocols with x pause time, represented by 
[GAF, x] or [HEC, x]. Figs. 6 and 7 are the simulation results with moving speed of 0-1m/s (low speed) and 
0-20m/s (high speed), respectively. The dotted lines in Figs. 6 and 7 depict the average fractions of survived 
nodes for varied m’s, where m is from 1 to 20. When m is no less than 10, the average fraction of survived 
nodes tends to be approximately 20%. This means that the network throughput at this time is low. Therefore, 
effective network lifetime is defined as the interval from the beginning of the simulation to the time when the 
first instance of 10 failed retransmissions of a packet happens, i.e. the period during which the average 
fraction of survived nodes is greater than 20%. Simulation results indicate that the network lifetime of HEC 
is superior to that of GAF under any speed or pause time.  
 
     Figure. 6. The fraction of survived nodes (0~1 m/s).         Figure. 7. The fraction of survived nodes (0~20 m/s). 
At low speed, the effective network lifetimes are approximately 1250 seconds for [HEC-enh, 900], 1150 
seconds for [HEC-bas, 0], 1120 seconds for [HEC-enh, 0], 1050 seconds for [HEC-bas, 900], 950 seconds for 
[GAF, 0], and 930 seconds for [GAF, 900]. HEC-bas and HEC-enh had similar performances under low 
speed and short pause times, mainly because the Ts of HEC-enh is always set to 47 seconds, and Ts of HEC-
bas does not differ greatly from the Ts of HEC-enh. Although HEC-enh employs group take-over mechanism, 
nodes subject to its average speed move out of the group only once every 47 seconds. Therefore, the 
performance of HEC-enh is identical to that of HEC-bas. 
