行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
癌細胞分析微流元件之研發
計畫執行起訖: 94.08.01 至 95.07.31
計畫編號 NSC 94-2212-E-002 -054
國立台灣大學應用力學研究所
主持人: 胡文聰
1. 摘要
本計畫目的為設計並製造一積體微流元
件對癌症細胞作基本的分析。成果主要在細胞
的識別和分離技術上，將一個微流原件製成電
極，透過介電泳（DEP）產生不同的 DEP 力作
用在一般細胞、不規則的細胞或是癌症細胞
上，達到細胞操控的目的。透過理論上的分析
和電腦運算有助於瞭解研究結果，模擬顯示獨
特的設計可確保將生物微粒近乎完美地分
離，使多種細胞的類型可以被分類在下游的儲
藏箱裡。實驗結果針對 3T3 mouse fibroblasts
細胞完成完整之 DEP 在不同液體(medium)及
電場中之特性探討。
關鍵詞: 微流元件、癌細胞識別、細胞分離
1. Abstract
The goal of this project is to design and fabricate
an integrated microfluidic device for basic analysis
of cancer cells. The one-year effort focused on cell
recognition and separation techniques. A microfluidic
device was fabricated with electrodes for
manipulation of cells using dielectrophoresis (DEP),
based on the difference in DEP force acting on a
normal cell, atypical cell, or a cancerous cell.
Computational results showed cells of various types
were sorted into bins downstream, with near perfect
yield. Experimental effort, using 3T3 mouse
fibroblasts, delineated DEP characteristics under
various conditions, e.g. medium and electric field.
Keywords: microfluidics device, cancer cell
recognition, separation of cells.
2. Introduction
As it is well known, cancer is the number one
disease-killer in Taiwan. However, for a particular
tumor to be life threatening, cancer cells usually take
five or more years to grow from a single cell to a
tumor large enough to cause metastasis. Thus, early
detection of cancerous cells is absolutely vital to
allow sufficient time for treatment procedures to be
effective. For example, in the case of breast cancer,
which is the No. 1 cause of death among women
averaging of 110 per day in the U.S., cancerous cells
might have been present for 6-10 years already prior
to grow to a size detectable by mammogram or
ultrasound. With minimum detectable tumor size of
approx. 3mm, about 1000 times the size of a single
cancerous cell, much valuable time is lost due to
inability for some cancers to be detected sufficiently
early. Moreover, the current cytology analysis
method is labor intensive and requires a skilled
technician.
3. Theory
The DEP force on a polarizable particle arises
from the interaction between an inhomogeneous
electric field and the dipole induced on the particle.
The DEP force on a spherical particle is
  232 rmsfDEP ECMRErF   , (1)
where r is the radius of the particle, rmsE is the
root-mean-squared (rms) electric field, f is the
fluid permittivity, CM is the Clausius–Mossotti
factor, and  the frequency of the electric field.
CM is dependent on the relative permittivity
and conductivity of the particle and the fluid, and it
can vary between -0.5 and 1[1,2]. When CM < 0,
the fluid is more polarizable than the particle, and
the particle is pulled toward the local minimum of
the electric field. This is called negative DEP (nDEP).
Positive DEP (pDEP) occurs when the particle is
more polarizable than the fluid, CM > 0, and the
particle is pulled to the maximum of the electric field.
particles. The yellow parts in the background are
electrodes and blue are gaps. Simulation is set that
the flow velocity is 67μm/s, and the range of 
velocity is 55-75μm/s.
Hep G2, a cancer cell, is chosen as the main
particles and analyzed to look for the properties in it.
In the figure 6, applying an AC signal (5 MHz, 5.7
Vpp) to the ITO electrode array before inject cell
suspension, Hep G2 in mannitol soluition (480 mM),
into the chamber of the array. After the cell
suspension was injected into the chamber, Hep G2
were trapped to the surface of the ITO electrode
array.
7. Conclusions
As stated, the goal of this project is to design
and fabricate a microfluidic device for basic analysis
of cancer cells. Specifically, focus was made on cell
recognition and separation techniques. A
microfluidic device was designed and fabricated
with electrodes for manipulation of cells using
dielectrophoresis (DEP), based on the difference in
DEP force acting on a normal cell, atypical cell, or a
cancerous cell. Cell sorting by specific size is
successfully simulated. The mission of using DEP
force to identify cancer cells is also completed.
Results show it is easy to manipulate pure cells in
the solution by DEP and when switching pure
particles with various-sized ones, it is hard to find a
suitable flow rate and AC frequency matching the
simulations.
8. References
[1] Hunt T.P., “Addressable micropost array for the
dielectrophoretic manipulation of particles in
fluid,” Applied Physics Letters, 85(26)
6421-6423, 2004
[2] Joel Voldman, A microfabricated
dielectrophoretic trapping array for cell-based
biological assays, 2001
[3] IEEE Eng. Med. Biol. Mag., 22, 91, 2003
[4] IEEE Sensors Journal, 4, 576, 2004
[5] The Journal of Biological Chemistry, 267, 9470,
1992
[6] Biotechnology and Bioengineering, 54 , 239,
1997
[7] Journal of Material Science: Material in
Medicine, 7, 85, 1996
a b
Figure 1 (a) Random distribution of 3T3 cells
before applying AC signal. (b) 3T3 cells attached to
the edges of electrodes due to positive
dielectrophoresis.
a b
Figure 2 (a) 3T3 cells were located at plane of
focus. (b) Cells which were repelled away from the
edges of electrodes and blurred indicates the effect of
negative dielectrophoresis.
Figure 3 Electrodes design No. 1
Figure 4 Electrodes design No. 2
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告
95 年 10 月 31 日
報告人姓名
胡文聰
服務機構
及職稱
國立台灣大學
應用力學研究所
教授
會議時間
地點
2006 年 5 月 7-11 日
美國 Boston
本會核定
補助文號 NSC 94-2212-E-002 -054
會議
名稱
(中文) 奈米科技研討會與貿易展 2006
(英文) 2006 NTSI Nanotechnology Conference and Trade Show
發表
論文
題目
(中文) 矽橡膠的中紅外線穿透頻譜用於蛋白質結構檢測
(英文) Transmission Spectrum of PDMS in 4-7μm mid-IR Range
for Characterization of Protein Structure
報告內容應包括下列各項：
一、 參加會議經過
This conference is perhaps the largest conference in the field by the number of participants (over
1000 this year). The spectrum of program is also considered as the most diversify. Four main tracks
are as follows:
1. Electronics & Microsystems
 Nano electronics & photonics
 Nano fabrication
 MEMS & NEMS
 Sensors & systems
 Micro & Nano Fluidics
附
件
三
reporting on recent findings from collaboration with doctors the issues that they wrestled with often
shed fresh light on the subject, which is invaluable to the audience.
The posters deserve high commendation. They are usually of high quality, with a distinct
advantages of being able to look through the content at leisure, unlike oral presentation, and ask
questions. In fact, it is my personal opinion that quality of some posters are higher than that of
those chosen for oral presentation.
The exhibition is world class. Approximately a hundred exhibitors representing research
organizations, publishers, professional organizations, and a wide spectrum of companies –
including large scale drag companies to start-ups. The level of services available rendered by these
companies presented in this nanotechnology conference is unmatched. Careful walk-around and
dialogue with these exhibitors would reap great benefits in practical know-how.
Networking is another prime feature of attending such large conference. Opportunities are
readily available to meet and discuss with others in the same field, not only those in academia but
in industry as well.
三、 考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略): 無
四、 攜回資料名稱及內容會議議程: Proceedings in CD format.
4-7
III2
transmission spectroscopy–a broadband IR beam transmits
through the PDMS film in a detector, then the converted
signal getting Fourier transformed. The PDMS film is the
experiment material. The brand name and model of the
spectrometer is Nicolet Nexus 870. Fig. 1 (b) shows the
photo of PDMS film on a paper slide, mounted in the
spectrometer. When the measurement is underway, the
cover of the chamber is closed, keeping directing dry air
into it in order to purge water vapor out. Water gives large
interference during the measurement spectral range and
needs to be removed.
(a)
(b)
Fig. 1: Experimental setup. (a) Configuration of
transmission spectroscopy. (b) The transmission
spectrum of PDMS was measured by Nicolet
Nexus 870 FT-IR spectrometer. The PDMS film
was located as indicated.
PDMS is prepared under standard procedure[13]. Three
design factors are selected in the fabrication process of
PDMS film, including the mixing ratio of the two parts in
Sylgard 184, and the rotation rate of spin coating. The
mixing ratio of two parts causes the composition of PDMS
to change. The spin rate of spin coating determines the
thickness of PDMS thickness. Actually, both the mixing
ratio and angular frequency of spin affects the film
thickness. The thickness decreases as mixing ratio goes
down and spin rate goes up.
Regarding spectral measurement, there are four design
factors. They are purge time, number of scan, and
resolution of spectrum. Purge time is critical to reduce the
affect of water vapor. Both number of scan and resolution
can be adjusted in the software to control spectrometer and
analyze the signal it gets, related to the quality of spectra.
2.2 Composition Effect on Transmittance
All the seven factors, including fabrication and
measurement factors, are summarized in Table 1. Each
factors has two levels except for mid-level. If we need to go
through all the combinations, there are 27=128 cases to be
studied! To restrict total experiment number within twenty,
fractional factorial design[14] is adapted judge the
effect of factors. This technique ensures us to make the
most of the experimental result and enables us to find the
optimal results efficiently.
Variables Unit Range (high, mid, low)
 The mixing ratio of base
to curing agent 12, 10, 8
 The angular frequency
of spin coating RPM 1500, 1000, 500
 Purge time Min. 20, 15, 10
 Number of scan 192, 128, 64
 Resolution of spectrum 8, 4, 1
Table 1: Experimental factors–the first two fabrication
parameters and last three measurement parameters.
The response of factors is set to be the maximum
transmittances of each spectrum. The final part of result is
the regression model of the key factors to the maximum
transmittance.
3 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
Results are discussed in two parts: (1) PDMS
transmission spectra over various experimental factors and
(2) the relationship between maximum transmittance and
composition. The first part includes spectral results,
comparison to previous work, and interpretation of the
transmission valley, where strong absorption occurs. The
second part reports the regression model linking maximum
transmittance and mixing ratio.
3.1 Two Transmission bands of PDMS
Figure 2 presents results of transmission spectra for
different mixing ratio tested. Two viable transmission
bands exist with transmittance above 50%: 2500-2194 cm-1
and 2122-1980 cm-1. The former band exhibits more
desirable characteristics; maximum transmittance occurs in
this band with a near-constant transmittance. Within this
band –from 2490 to 2231 cm-1 –the transmittance is 62%
for typical mixing ratio of 10:1, and over 95% for mixing
Detector
and FT
Broadband
IR source
PDMS film
Light
beam
