 1
報告內容 
一、前言 
    微電子技術的進步帶動資訊產品的普及化，根據研究（Lee and Kuo, 2001），高齡使用者對
於複雜操作的資訊產品，只會使用其簡單的基本功能；但設計優良的資訊產品可以增進高齡者生
活上的便利性與社會互動的機會（Alm, et al., 2002 ）。現今資訊產品強調資訊行動化，操作介面
朝向小型觸控式螢幕發展（李傳房、郭辰嘉，2004），而具小型觸控式螢幕特徵的資訊產品，如
行動電話、PDA、金融機等重視產品的移動性與攜帶性，且隨產品功能的複雜化，更突顯出小型
螢幕空間的侷促性（李傳房與才敏傑，1999）。人的身體機能可歸納為運動、知覺與認知(Hotta, 
1997; Okada, 1997; Fisk, et al., 2004)，隨著年齡的增加，身體機能的退化會影響使用者操作資訊
產品。例如：視覺機能退化會影響介面文字的閱讀性；認知機能退化的影響包含有記憶力退化，
容易忘記操作流程、注意力或反應降低等；運動機能退化的影響則包含肌力減退、關節靈活度降
低、巧緻動作不靈活等(李傳房、郭辰嘉，2004)。小型資訊產品的操作模式主要集中在手部；而
在手部機能方面，高齡者的手部會產生顫抖的現象，且在快速移動的動作，比較容易產生錯誤
(Skre，1972；Verillo，1980)；小型觸控式螢幕的操作包含點選、手寫、捲軸等移動動作，這些
手部機能的退化會影響高齡者在小型觸控式螢幕的操作績效。且根據第一年的研究計畫成果顯
示，高齡者因為手部運動機能退化，對小型觸控式螢幕的操作績效產生影響；手部靈敏度較佳的
使用者，其操作績效也較佳。一般小型觸控式介面輸入的手部動作可分為簡單點選的靜態操作；
手寫、捲軸等動態操作。除了一般功能的點選之外，閱讀或輸入較多資料時，常用手寫、捲軸等
較複雜混合式的動作，則較不容易操作。因此，本研究的目的為從通用設計的觀點，探討不同年
齡層在小型觸控式介面中，不同手部動作的操作問題，並與第一年研究結果進行分析與比較。其
研究成果可透過通用設計的理念，應用在相關的小型觸控式螢幕的資訊產品設計上，使資訊產品
能更容易為高齡者、甚至於身心障礙者所使用，達到產品共用性的目的，以提升我國在資訊產品
人機介面設計的能力與品質。 
 
二、文獻探討 
隨著資訊科技的發展，過去探討使用者人機介面的研究非常多，其研究成果被應用在相關的
資訊產品設計上（Freudenthal, 1999; Bergman, 2000; Baumann & Thomas, 2001）；但大部分的資訊
產品對高齡者而言，在操作上仍有許多問題點，甚至望而卻步不敢使用（Howell, 1997）。因為隨
著年齡的增加，造成老年人生理與心理上的退化，使高齡者不易操作產品的介面，其主要問題點
可歸納為運動、知覺與認知等機能方面（Okada,1997；Lee and Kuo, 2001）。例如：在運動機能方
面，因為高齡者的肌力退化與手指的靈敏度降低，不容易操作細小的按鍵（Lee and Kuo,2001）；
在知覺機能方面：由於高齡者視覺機能的退化，不容易看清楚產品的操作介面（宮田，1994）、
或不容易聽清楚產品所發出的聲響（Kurakata, et al., 1999）；在認知機能方面：由於高齡者記憶
力的退化，不易操作複雜功能的產品（Lee and Kuo, 2001）。如前所述，設計優良的資訊產品可
以增進高齡者生活上的便利性與社會互動性（Czaja, 1997; Alm, et al., 2002 ），所以如何提供符合
高齡者身心機能的資訊產品，是值得探討的。 
以先進國家為例，為高齡者研製的產品除了重視其可接近的設計（Accessible Design）與適
應設計（Adaptable Design）之外，還必需重視通用設計（Universal Design）或包容設計（Inclusive 
 3
面設計上（Han, et al., 2001）。例如 Baumann & Thomas（2001）對以手指操作觸控式螢幕之按鍵
尺寸提出建議值，但該建議值只是針對一般的狀況，並未針對高齡者或特定的使用情形（如使用
觸控筆、或小型觸控式螢幕）；因高齡者的視力衰退與手指的靈敏度降低，造成手眼協調的能力
降低，若該建議值要應用在高齡使用者的介面設計上，則需進一步的探討與修正。 
Okada（1997）提出，必須先瞭解高齡者生理機能的特性，才能設計適合高齡者使用的產品
介面設計。另一方面，因高齡者彼此之間的生理機能差異較大，若要將通用設計的理念，運用在
小型觸控式螢幕的介面設計上，必須進一步探討高齡者的生理機能與其介面使用性之間的關係；
也就是瞭解高齡者生理機能的限度，才能將通用設計的理念運用在小型觸控式螢幕的介面設計
上。目前有關上述高齡者使用小型觸控式螢幕的研究非常少，這是本研究的契機之一。 
 
三、研究方法 
    本研究主要採用 Thinking aloud的方法進行實驗，以下分別說明調查與實驗方法。 
3-1 Thinking aloud 
    參與本階段研究的受測者共 15人，年輕人(平均年齡 27.9±5.2歲)、中高齡者(52.1±3.9歲)，
與高齡者(67.9±3.8 歲)各 5 人。受測者分別操作翻譯機(CD826 pro)、PDA( personal digital 
assistant ，ASUS A730)、行動電話(Dopod 818)。依據給予之測試任務，實際操作這三項資訊產
品，操作時以口語化的方式，表達個人的想法與問題點，全程以影音、筆記記錄之。 
3-2 操作任務 
    操作任務的選定包含靜態與動態的手部動作任務。翻譯機的測試任務包含查詢字典、輸入個
人資訊、播放多媒體；PDA 的測試任務包含計算機功能、輸入個人資訊、播放多媒體；行動電
話的任務包含撥打電話、輸入個人資訊、播放多媒體。 
 
四、結果 
    實驗與調查結果，經由二位從事高齡者研究三年以上經驗的專家，針對三族群使用者所表達
的問題與想法，根據知覺、運動、認知機能(Hotta, 1997; Okada, 1997; Fisk, et al., 2004 )進行分類，
以二位專家觀點相同為主，相異部分則重新分類並討論之。如表 1所示，各族群在三種小型觸控
式介面所產生問題點的合計次數，由多至少依序為高齡者、中高齡者、年輕人。若以產品類別而
言，產生問題點的合計次數，翻譯機：高齡者＞中高齡者＞年輕人；PDA：高齡者＞中高齡者、
年輕人；行動電話：高齡者、中高齡者＞年輕人。 
 
表 1   各族群在三種小型觸控式介面的問題點 
受測者 年輕人 中高齡者 高齡者 總計(次數) 
翻譯機 19 23 26 68 
PDA 18 20 27 65 
行動電話 13 22 22 57 
總計(次數) 50 65 75 190 
 5
表 4  「行動電話」之靜態與動態手部動作問題歸納 
 靜態手部動作問題描述 動態手部動作問題描述 
年輕人 ‧調整性的按鍵太小，如箭頭，容易產生誤 
  觸或點選之後無反應 
‧產品不容易握持 
‧手寫板空間不足，不容易書寫，即使文字筆畫 
  少，亦會產生辨識錯誤 
‧全螢幕手寫，容易誤觸其他圖層按鍵 
‧滑動捲軸時，按鍵太靠近邊際，不容易滑動 
中高齡者 ‧按鍵太小，不容易操作 
‧視覺機能退化，按鍵太小，影響點選的準確性 
‧捲軸的按鍵太小，不容易滑動 
‧操作空間不足，手寫時容易誤觸其他按鍵 
‧全螢幕手寫，容易誤觸其他圖層按鍵 
‧操作空間較小，手部的穩定性較不足 
高齡者 ‧按鍵太小，不容易操作 
‧視覺機能退化，按鍵太小，影響點選的準確性 
‧觸控筆較短、筆徑細，不容易握持 
‧產品不容易握持 
‧操作的穩定性較差，長時間操作容易產生手部
顫抖 
‧捲軸按鍵太小，影響點選加上滑動等複合動
作，滑動時容易產生錯誤，或無反應 
‧操作空間不足，手部動作不容易施展，容易造 
  成手部疲倦 
‧全螢幕手寫，容易誤觸其他圖層按鍵 
 
4-2 認知、知覺、運動機能在小型觸控式介面的問題分布 
    根據表 1的結果顯示，每個族群在三項資訊產品的問題次數不同；在進一步分析各族群在操
作不同小型觸控式介面，產生問題的比例。根據圖 1所示，各族群在操作翻譯機，以認知機能的
問題比例較高；圖 2顯示在 PDA的操作中，認知機能的問題比例降低；圖 3則顯示在操作行動
電話時，各族群的運動機能問題比例明顯提高。在三項小型觸控式產品中，以行動電話的產品體
積為最小，使操作空間較其他二項產品小，為各年齡層使用者在運動機能問題比例提高之原因。 
 
 
五、討論 
5-1 小型觸控式介面的操作問題 
    點選與手寫是小型觸控式螢幕的主要輸入方式，依本研究的結果，使用者運動機能方面都集
中於按鍵或操作空間的問題。根據研究指出，以觸控筆進行操作時，按鍵最小的尺寸須大於
5mm( Lee and Kuo，2004) 。在本研究的三項資訊產品中，最小的按鍵尺寸為2mm x3mm ，使受
圖 1. 在翻譯機的問題分布 圖 2. 在 PDA的問題分布 圖 3. 在行動電話的問題分布 
 7
六、結論 
從通用設計的觀點，探討不同年齡層的使用者在小型觸控式介面中，動態與靜態的手部操作
問題為本研究的目的。研究結果顯示，產品介面的面積愈小，使用者在運動機能方面的操作需求
更為重要；受測者在靜態操作時，產品的按鍵尺寸過小、或按鍵距離過近，皆容易導致操作錯誤；
尤其，高齡者最為顯著。在動態操作方面，主要的問題點在於受測者對手寫輸入空間與其操作位
置為主。另外，因高齡者手部靈敏度較差，不容易操作複合性的動作，如滑動捲軸，尤其當捲軸
按鍵較小時，更容易產生操作錯誤。手寫板的位置位於右下方，容易造成使用者的穩定性不足；
手寫板的空間應增加尺寸，並以單格方式呈現，有利於手寫輸入的操作。從通用設計的觀點，在
設計小型觸控式產品介面時，若能以高齡者的操作特性為考量，將可減少操作錯誤的發生，與提
高產品使用的滿意度。 
 
計畫成果自評 
    延續第一年的研究成果，手部的靈敏度會影響操作績效。而小型觸控式螢幕的操作，可區分
為靜態與動態的操作模式，靜態的操作模式如簡單點選的功能；動態操作模式如滑動捲軸、手寫
輸入等。本研究主要以通用設計的觀點，歸納小型觸控式螢幕的操作問題。其研究成果可透過通
用設計的理念，應用在相關的小型觸控式螢幕的資訊產品設計上，使資訊產品能更容易為高齡
者、甚至於身心障礙者所使用，達到產品共用性的目的，以提升我國在資訊產品人機介面設計的
能力與品質。 
    本研究的部分成果，已發表在 2007 年 7月 22日至 27日，在大陸北京舉行的 12th International 
Conference on Human-Computer Interaction，發表資料詳如附件；未來將再整理本此的研究成果，
發表在使用者介面之相關學術期刊上。 
 
參考文獻 
三坂博次、日座和典，1992，適合高齡者的家電產品操作面板文字顯示之研究《日文》，Nikkei 
Electronics, No.559, pp.183-193 
山岡俊樹，鈴木一重，藤原義久，2000，構造化使用者介面設計與評估《日文》，共立出版社 
李傳房, 才敏傑, 1999, 組織與動態資訊對小型顯示介面之訊息處理的影響, 科技學刊, Vol. 8, 
No.2, pp.157-163 
李傳房，2002，日本無障礙設計與通用設計考察報告 
李傳房, 郭辰嘉, 2004, 高齡者使用小型觸控式螢幕之研究, 設計學報, 第九卷第四期（12月）, 頁
45-55 
林榮泰，1998，使用者介面設計之人因分析模式，中日設計教育研討會論文集，雲林科技大學，
pp.81-90 
岡田明，1993，工業設計《日文》，森典彥（編），朝倉書店，東京，p. 26 
柳田，1999，Universal Design in America《日文》，http://eandc.org/univers2.html 
陳崇文，1998，資訊產品軟硬體整合之使用者介面研究，中日設計教育研討會論文集，雲林科
技大學，pp.121-130 
葉恆芬，2003，掌握天下事的無線網際網路，科學發展，371期，pp. 12-15 
Alm, N.  et al., 2002, Older people and information technology are ideal partners, International 
Conference for UD in Japan 2002, CD-ROM:2078 
Baumann, K. and Thomas, B., 2001, User interface design for electronic appliances. Taylor & 
Francis, London 
Bergman, E., 2000, Information appliances and beyond, Morgan Kaufman Publishers 
 9
附件：12th International Conference on Human-Computer Interaction的發表論文原稿 
（出版於 HCI2007：Universal Access in HCI, Part I, LNCS 4554, 2007/07/, pp.968–974） 
 
 
Difficulties on small-touch-screens for various ages 
 
Chang-franw Lee1 and Chen-Chia Kuo1,2 
 
1: Graduate School of Design, National Yunlin University of Science and Technology Douliu, Yunlin, 64002, Taiwan 
2: Department of Computer Aided Media Design, Chang Jung Christian University, Tainan, 71101, Taiwan 
 
                                                                         
Abstract. Digital products with small-touch-screens are increasingly affecting daily life, and most 
especially that of the elderly population in Taiwan which, at present, is over 9.9%. As people age, 
they find it increasingly difficult to operate digital products with small-touch-screens. The main 
purpose of this study was to investigate and categorize these difficulties for three groups of adult 
users.  The fifteen participants in the investigation were classified into three groups: young adults, 
middle-aged adults and elderly adults. All of the adults were requested to accomplish different 
tasks using three digital products with small-touch-screens and then to provide their opinions on 
the kinds of difficulties they had encountered. The experts classifying the results found that the 
elderly adults were the group confronted with the most difficulties in the operation of 
small-touch-screen digital devices. In the digital dictionary experiment, the greatest difficulty for 
the three groups centered on cognitive ability; the majority of problems were related to motion in 
the PDA. In fact, the most notable problems for each of the participants were related primarily to 
motion in the PDA and to cognition. The results also indicated the common operational problems 
with the three digital products with small-touch-screens, including the impact of space or position 
of handwriting and button size on motion ability; and the impact of the size and color of the fonts 
or icons and screen brightness on perception ability. Lastly, regarding the difficulties with 
cognition, most of the participants were confronted with complex information, inconsistent with 
the interfaces of the digital products. Results of this study were based on the opinions from the 
three adult groups and, could be used in future designs for small-touch-screen interfaces. 
 
Keywords: small-touch-screen, motion, perception, cognition 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 11
digital dictionary, a PDA (personal digital assistant) and a cell phone. Table 2.1 shows the 
specifications of each of the experiment instruments, whose main input methods were tap buttons or 
handwriting on a touch-screen with a stylus.  
 
2.3 Tasks 
Table 2.2 shows the main tasks handled with each of the instruments. For the digital dictionary, 
participants tasked minor items which included: consulting a dictionary by three input methods, setting 
some individual information and operating multimedia functions. There were minor items for the PDA 
and the cell phone that included: calculating or dialing, setting some individual information and 
operating multimedia functions. The participants had to describe their initial opinions when operating 
the digital products during the experiment. 
 
Table 2.1  Experiment instruments 
  
 
 
 
 
Digital dictionary 
(CD826 pro) 
 
 
 
 
 
PDA 
(ASUS A730) 
 
 
 
 
 
Cell phone 
(Dopod 818) 
Product Size(mm) 137.5 x 82.8 x 18.9 117.5 x 72.8 x 16.9  108x 58x 18.1 
Screen Size(pixels)  3.8’’,320x240 3.7”, 640x480 2.8”, 320x240 
Weight(g) 250 170 150 
 
 
Table 2.2  Tasks of three experiment instruments  
Digital dictionary PDA Cell phone 
．Task 1: consulting a dictionary 
．Task 2: setting some individual 
information  
．Task 3: multimedia 
．Task 1: calculating machine 
．Task 2: setting some individual 
information 
．Task 3: multimedia 
．Task 1: dialing someone 
．Task 2: setting some individual 
information 
 
．Task 3: multimedia 
 
2.4 Experiment environments 
The participants were asked to operate digital products in a realistic environment. The illumination of 
 
 13
the main difficulties common to the three groups in their operation of small-touch-screens as related to 
the human abilities of motion, perception and cognition. 
 
Table 3.1  Difficulties with the digital dictionary 
 Description of the difficulties 
Motion 
 
‧ Participants made more mistakes when the buttons were minute. 
‧ The position of handwriting was under the screen which entailed hand instability. 
‧ Speed or strength of handwriting influenced the accuracy of recognition. 
‧ There was no hold button for the touch-screen of the digital dictionary. It was not 
stable for participants.  
Perception 
‧ Some of the fonts or icons were too small to be read clearly. 
‧ The contrast between font and background was not intense enough. 
Cognition 
‧ The icon buttons were confusingly similar.  
‧ Multiple modes of input made keyboards complex and confusing.  
‧ Increasingly frequent errors were due to inappropriate icons. 
‧ Participants could not understand the complex information. 
 
 
Table 3.2  Difficulties with the PDA 
 Description of the difficulties 
Motion 
‧ The area was too narrow when Chinese fonts were input, so that strokes were 
complex. 
‧ The position of handwriting was under on the screen which caused hands’ instability.
‧ Speed or strength of handwriting influenced the accuracy of recognition. 
‧ Some buttons were too small and increased the difficulty for participants.  
‧ The volume of PDA was too large for female participants. 
Perception 
‧ Some of the screen fonts were too small to read clearly. 
‧ Participants found it tiring reading complex information on the smaller screen. 
‧ The screen brightness was not sufficient for the recognition of smaller icons or fonts.
‧ The light reflecting off the screen influenced participants. 
Cognition 
‧ The meaning of icons was not readily apparent and participants had more difficulty 
recognizing them.  
‧ The operation process was not easily remembered. 
‧ Two similar icons placed together confused participants. 
‧ Participants could not understand the complex information if they had had no past 
experience with digital devices. 
 
 15
14-point font size for elderly people with a normal decline in their vision (Kurniawan et al., 2006). The 
font on the small-touch-screens in this study was 6-8 point, and the middle-aged and elderly 
participants had more vision-related problems and labored harder to operate the digital products. 
The most general cognition-related problem for the three groups involved the icon or exposition on 
buttons. Multifarious functions made the information more complex, and many buttons were displayed 
by compendious icon or font which users tended to misinterpret; thus they made mistakes if they had 
no experience with the icon in the past. In addition, the working memory for normal young adults is 
seven items and for elderly adults it is five point eight items（Schieber, 2003, p 64）. Schieber also 
indicated that the decline in working memory was related to age and to the complexity of the task. 
Middle-aged and elderly participants forgot the operating sequences more easily than did the young 
adults, especially when the procedure was complicated. 
The touch-screen size of the digital dictionary was the largest and the cell phone was the smallest in 
three experiments. Fig. 1 to Fig. 3 show that there were more motion-related difficulties with the cell 
phone and that the problems centered on the size of the area for handwriting or the size of the buttons  
These results show that the motion ability in older adults is an essential consideration for the 
development of smaller digital products in the future. 
 
5. Conclusions 
Each group experienced different operational problems with the three experiment instruments with 
small-touch-screens. In this study, the results have also generalized the common difficulties for the 
three age groups, including: the space or position of handwriting and the button size on motion ability, 
the size and color of fonts or icons, and the brightness of the screen for perception ability. Lastly, most 
participants faced difficulties with cognition when confronted with complex information inconsistent 
with the interfaces of the digital products. Results of this study were based on the opinions from 
various age groups and could be used for future designing of small-touch-screen interfaces. 
 
 
Acknowledgements 
This study received partly financial support from the National Science Council of the Republic of 
China Government, under Grant No. NSC 95-2221-E-224-028. 
 
 
 
