2 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
半導體製造中工程知識探勘系統之研究-以製程整合 
與設計法則改進為例(3/3) 
Research on Engineering Knowledge Mining System: Process 
Integration and Design-Rule Refinement Cases (3/3) 
 
計 畫 編 號：NSC 95-2221-E-155-075-MY3-2 
執 行 期 限：97 年 8 月 1 日至 98 年 7 月 31 日 
主 持 人：范治民   元智大學工業工程與管理學系 
共同主持人：張時中   台灣大學電機工程學系 
       台灣大學工業工程研究所 
計畫參與人員：徐仕杰  台灣大學電機工程研究所  
邱顯強   台灣大學工業工程研究所 
劉宇祖  元智大學工業工程與管理學系 
邱智淳   元智大學工業工程與管理學系 
 
一、中文摘要 
本研究旨在開發一個以工程目的為導向的動態知
識探勘流程組建方法，期望在探勘流程中能夠依據
最新狀況自動整合工程師的專業知識與選用最適
合的資料分析工具，以促成資源與知識的有效分享
與重用。在第一年度的研究，選定以半導體製程良
率分析流程以及其在工程資料分析系統上的實現
做為載具，建構出工程知識探勘的初步方法，並且
已連結實際半導體廠之工程資料分析系統實作出
第一代原型系統。而在第二年度的研究，則是以知
識本體論強化第一代原型系統的知識表達形式，研
發出一個知識建模的本體論應用框架，其中包含了
工程目的、控制策略、與知識資源三個層次的知識
建模。以此三層式的應用框架為基礎，在第三年度
的 研 究 中 ， 此 子 計 畫 與 另 一 子 計 畫 [NSC 
95-2221-E-002-346-MY3] 共同開發出一套以工程
目的為導向的智慧型知識探勘流程組建方法與系
統，此系統提供了六大功能：工程目的描述、工程
目的規畫、工程工具選擇與執行、異常癥狀萃取與
統計指標描述、假設推論形成、與組合報表產生。
此系統已由半導體業界的良率分析案例進行實證
研究，展現其在知識分享與重用上之可行性與擴充
性。 
關鍵詞：工程鏈管理、工程知識探勘、良率分析
流程、知識建模、流程組建 
Abstract 
Engineering knowledge mining (EKM) is a 
purpose-oriented data-mining process to align 
engineer’s domain knowledge with various 
data-driven inference tools. In the first year of 
research, we selected the yield analysis procedure 
(YAP) and its realization on engineering data analysis 
(EDA) system as the problem conveyer.  In specific, 
with the focus on knowledge sharing and reuse, we 
studied the salient features of both YAP and EDA, 
and designed the first-cut EKM methodology and its 
corresponding process for EKM system development.  
In the second year of research, to achieve the effective 
knowledge mining, an ontology-based knowledge 
modeling framework is further proposed for the 
intelligent composition of a knowledge mining 
process. The proposed knowledge modeling 
framework consists of three layers: Engineering 
Purpose, Control Strategy and Knowledge Resource. 
An industrial case study is conducted to validate the 
feasibility of the proposed knowledge modeling 
framework.  On top of the knowledge modeling 
framework, the third year of research collaborated 
with another project [NSC 95-2221-E-002-346-MY3] 
and developed methods with a corresponding system 
for the intelligent planning and execution of various 
purpose-oriented knowledge mining processes.  The 
developed system provides six successive functions: 
purpose specification, purpose planning, tool selection, 
symptom extraction and statistics descriptions, 
hypothesis formulation, and composite report 
generation.  With the yield analysis cases from an 
international semiconductor manufacturing foundry, 
the developed system is proved to be useful for 
knowledge sharing and reuse from the perspectives of 
logic feasibility and system scalability. 
 
Keywords: Engineering Chain Management, 
Engineering Knowledge Mining, Yield Analysis 
Procedure, Knowledge Modeling, Process 
Composition 
 M1. EKM Purpose Specification and Decomposition 
Purpose represents the thinking or idea that someone 
plans to do.  Usually, the purpose can be further 
decomposed into sub-purposes.  A composite 
purpose is a purpose which can be further 
decomposed while an atomic purpose is a purpose can 
not be further decomposed. In the domain of yield 
analysis, five elements are specified in each composite 
purpose: Pre-condition, Terminating condition, 
Classify/ Correlate action, Intensify action and Verify 
action.  The Pre-condition provides means for 
checking if a composite purpose should be triggered.  
The Terminating condition specifies the goal of a 
composite purpose.  Only when the goal is achieved 
then the composite purpose is terminated.  The 
Classify/Correlation action is the basic action 
performed in each composite purpose for yield 
analysis.  The Intensify action provides the guide to 
engineers if the Terminating-condition could not be 
achieved at once.  The Verify action specifies how to 
test if the Terminating condition is achieved. Some 
examples of YAP purpose decompositions and 
specifications are demonstrated in Figures 7 and 8.  
 
 
Figure 5 Modeling and representation of various 
knowledge 
 
 
In the second year of research, to achieve the effective 
EKM, a knowledge modeling framework is further 
proposed to cope with the shortages S1~S3 for the 
intelligent composition of a knowledge mining 
process.  Specific achievements are as follows: 
三、第二年研究內容與成果- EKM 
Knowledge Modeling Framework 
 Knowledge mining is a purpose-oriented process of 
deriving knowledge from data by integrating domain 
knowledge and data-driven inference tools. To 
achieve the effective knowledge mining, a knowledge 
modeling framework is proposed in the second-year 
research for the intelligent composition of a 
knowledge mining process.  As shown in Figure 6, 
the proposed knowledge modeling framework consists 
of three layers: Purpose, Control Strategy and 
Knowledge Resource.  To solve the shortage S1, the 
purpose layer provides a model to specify engineer’s 
diverse purposes and how these purposes can be 
further decomposed into sub-purposes.  For solving 
the shortage S2, the Control Strategy in the second 
layer specifies various strategies to control over the 
sub-purposes for achieving the main purpose.  Both 
the models in Purpose and Control Strategy layers are 
further specified by the models predefined in the 
Knowledge Resource layer, which aims at solving the 
shortage S3.  On top of the knowledge resource layer, 
the specification of YAP Situation is formally defined 
to further enable the intelligent planning, composition, 
and execution of EKM processes. 
 
 
 
Figure 7 Abstractions of YAP Purpose 
Decompositions in The Semiconductor Manufacturing 
Domain 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8 The Relations between Purpose Modeling 
and Analysis Tool I/O Modeling 
 
 
M2. EKM Purpose Control Strategy 
Purpose control strategy determines the method to 
achieve the goal of a composite purpose.  Ideally, the 
execution result of a control strategy is expected to be 
the optimal solution for achieving the goal.  
However, in engineering practices, such an optimal 
solution is difficult to find.  Instead, heuristic method 
such as the greedy search with specific empirical 
control rules imbedded is usually adopted.  Thus the 
 
Figure 6 Knowledge Modeling Framework 
 
 
P1. Purpose Specification 
 
In the second year of research, the modeling of 
composite purpose is proposed.  However, what the 
system need is not just the purpose modeling for 
system execution but also a friendly user interface (UI) 
for engineers to specify their analysis purposes.  
Therefore, in the third year of research, an engineer 
friendly UI is developed to wrap the underlying 
purpose model with semantic descriptions. 
 
As demonstrated in Figure 13, the system UI for the 
unified description of engineer’s purpose is 3-fold: (1) 
functional description, (2) data description, and (3) 
quality-of-service (QoS) description.  All the words 
involved in the 3-fold descriptions are provided by the 
ontology of EKM knowledge resource.   
 
 
 
Figure 13 A Snapshot of Purpose Specification 
 
 
P2.1 Purpose Planning 
In the first year of research, the presentation of 
purpose planning is through a tree structure as 
demonstrated in Figure 2.  The tree structure is weak 
in representing a data analysis process with loops.  
Therefore, in the third year of research, a data network 
companioned with a data analysis flow representation 
is designed to represent the engineering knowledge 
mining process (Figure 14).  In specific, the data 
network is designed to guide engineers “where to go”.  
As can be seen in Figure 14, the data network 
provides a set of data nodes with specific nodes 
highlighted by their orders in analysis process.  On 
the other hand, the data analysis flow is designed to 
highlight “how to go”.  It suggests the order of 
successive tasks to conduct the purpose-oriented 
knowledge mining process. 
 
The generation of knowledge mining process is not 
static.  It consists of initial planning and re-planning.  
In the beginning, based on engineer’s purpose 
specification in P1, the system will conduct an initial 
plan.  The initial plan is generated by “backward 
planning” technique, which starts from the 
“terminating condition” and then recursively adopts 
the “normal” type of purpose link in Figure 9 to find 
the candidate purpose instances from the purpose 
template in Figure 7.  This backward planning 
process is recursively executed until the 
“pre-condition” of candidate purpose instance 
matches the “pre-condition” specified by engineers in 
P1.  As for the re-planning, it starts from the initial 
plan and is modified according to the latest hypothesis 
formulated in P2.4.  The latest hypothesis 
formulation provides additional information possible 
for triggering other types of purpose links, i.e. the 
types of “jump”, “intensify” and “ verify” purpose 
links demonstrated in Figure 9, to form a new 
knowledge mining process.     
 
Figure 14 demonstrates the results of an initial plan.  
Note that it consists of 6 successive tasks and the 
second task suggested is “CP vs, WAT Correlation”.  
However, due to a hypothesis formulated in P2.4 
indicates that the pattern of CP yield-loss could be 
directly associated with a specific EQP, the second 
task is re-planned as directly jumping to “CP vs. 
EQPID Correlation” (Figure 15) and the total number 
of tasks is reduced from 6 to 4 (Figure 16).        
 
 
 
Figure 14 A Snapshot of Purpose Planning and 
Selection: An Initial Plan with 6 Suggested Tasks. 
 
 
 
Figure 15 The Re-Planning Results in A Change of 
Analysis Flow  
 
 
 
Figure 16 A Snapshot of Purpose Planning and 
Selection: A Re-planning Results with Only 4 
Suggested Tasks. 
 
  
The OFI system is designed to automatically generate 
successive OFI flows for association analysis among 
multiple types of domain data.  When there are two 
types of domain data for yield analysis, only one OFI 
flow needs to be generated (Figure 22).  However, if 
there are more than two types of domain data involved 
in yield analysis, there will be multiple OFI flows.  
How to determine all the necessary OFI flows and 
plan the order to successively execute individual OFI 
flows is research issue for association analysis among 
multiple types of domain data (Figure 23).  In the 
OFI system, we designed the integrated ontology for 
various OFI flow compositions, and developed a 
system using Java language to composite the OFI flow. 
As shown in Figure 24, the right part of Java system 
serves as an inference engine, which is controlled by 
the “OFI Agent”.  The OFI Agent will first ask the 
“Multiple-OFI-Flow Planner” to plan the execution 
order of individual OFI flows, and then invoke the 
“Flow Expert” to execute individual OFI flows. 
Both the Multiple-OFI-Flow Planner and Flow Expert 
need to access the left part of “Integrated Ontology” 
 
Figure 20 The Second Symptom Extracted by 
“Weekly Yield Trend Chart” Using GSC Technique 
and Represented by Index Description Format 
 
 
 
Figure 21 The Statistics Extracted by “CP vs. EQP 
Correlation” and Represented by Index Description 
Format 
 
 
P2.4 Hypothesis Formation 
 
The latest Index Descriptions on symptoms and 
statistics from various EDA tools provide valuable 
information to engineers for conducting domain 
inferences on root causes of yield-loss events.   
However, the knowledge behind such kind of domain 
inference is implicit and not easy for sharing and 
reusing.  Therefore, this work has two objectives: (1) 
to enable engineers to contribute their hypotheses 
results for system learning; and (2) to provide 
automatic inference on potential root causes based on 
pre-modeled knowledge. 
 
 
rough the Protégé-OWL API to conduct their tasks.      
mining process as 
emonstrated in Figure 15 and 16. 
 
th
 
The designed UI for engineer’s hypothesis formations 
is demonstrated in 25.  The mechanism associated 
with the UI is three-staged: (1) input the parameter 
confirmed in yield analysis process (manually or 
system), (2) invoke OFI Inference web service, and (3) 
automatically output the suspected parameters and 
process steps.  For example, Figures 26~ 28 
demonstrates that the system automatically integrate 
the results of index descriptions in Figures 19~21 into 
the UI of hypothesis formation respectively.  After 
invoking the OFI inference, the system will update the 
hypothesis formation and then conduct re-planning in 
P2.1 to suggest a new knowledge 
d
 
 
The two objectives are mutually dependent.  If 
engineers cannot contribute their hypothesis result 
first, there is no chance for the system to learn the 
hypothesis knowledge and provide automatic 
inference.  On the contrary, if the system does not 
provide automatic inference results, there is no 
incentive for engineers to contribute their hypotheses.   
 
 22 The OFI Flow for Association AnaFigure lysis 
between Two Types of Domain Data  
 
Figure alysis 
among Three Types of Domain Data  
 
 
To achieve the above two objectives simultaneously, 
in the third year of research, we designed an 
ontology-based fuzzy inference (OFI) mechanism and 
a corresponding UI mechanism for engineer’s 
hypothesis formations.  On the one hand, the OFI 
serves for automatic inference on potential root causes. 
On the other hand, the hypothesis formulation UI 
provides the automatic inference results first, then 
allow engineers integrate her/his knowledge to modify 
the inference results.  In this way, the system share 
and reuse the domain knowledge, and enables the 
engineer to contribute her/his inference results with 
the minimum efforts. 
 
 
23 The OFI Flows for Association An
 
