 1
The Construction of the Real-Time Conductance Catheter Measurement System 
Chia-Ling Wei (魏嘉玲) 
 
摘要 
以 DSP 方式建構的即時導納量測儀器已經完成。此儀器是為了估量電導心導管量測系統
中，隨時間變化的心肌導納值及心室體積而設計的。運用此儀器所測得之結果與心室血壓
訊號結合，則可得到即時的心室血壓血量迴路分析圖。 
 
Abstract 
A real-time, DSP-based admittance measurement instrument has been constructed. The instrument 
is designed for estimating time-varying myocardial admittance and then ventricular volumes for a 
conductance catheter system. With pressure signals, plots of real-time ventricular pressure-volume 
loops can be obtained.  
 
I. Introdution  
 Pressure-volume analysis is a standard and classic method for assessing cardiac and 
myocardial function. The left ventricular (LV) pressure-volume relationships generated on a 
beat-by-beat basis during transient occlusion of the inferior vena cava allows hemodynamic 
characterization of LV systolic and diastolic functions independent of loading conditions [5-8]. 
There is interest in applying LV pressure-volume relationships to characterize the ventricular 
function in gene-altered mice. However, the measurement of instantaneous volume has been 
problematic due to the small size of the mouse heart (the volume of its left ventricle is about 
15~70 µl) and its rapid heart rate (up to 700 bpm). Conductance technology has been 
miniaturized to generate an instantaneous conductance signal, which is proportional to volume, to 
solve this problem [9, 10].  
 Experimentally a four-electrode catheter is inserted into the murine LV to generate an electric 
field and to continuously measure the instantaneous conductance signal, see Fig. 1(a)&(b). The 
widely-adopted conductance-to-volume conversion equation, proposed by Baan in 1984, is  
)(1 2 GpGLVol meas −= ρα         (1a) 
bgLVol
21 ρα=⇒           (1b) 
where Vol is the instantaneous volume signal (l), 1/α is an empirical calibration factor, ρ is the 
blood resistivity (Ω-m), L is the distance between the two inner voltage-sensing electrodes (m), 
Gmeas is the instantaneous measured conductance (S), Gp is the surrounding myocardial 
conductance (S), and gb is the blood conductance (S) [6].  
One problem that affects the accuracy of conductance catheter system is the estimation of 
myocardial contribution (Gp) to the total measured conductance (Gmeas). The measured 
conductance (Gmeas) is a combination of the electrical properties of the LV blood and myocardium, 
 3
conductance signals will be developed. 
All of them are achieved. Please see Methodology and Results. 
  
III Methodology  
A. Estimation of Time-Varying Myocardial Contribution 
A new method to estimate the time-varying myocardial contribution has been proposed, 
which uses the differences of electrical properties between blood and myocardium [1]. Previous 
studies have demonstrated that myocardium has both resistive and capacitive properties, while 
blood is purely resistive [18, 19]. According to their electrical properties, the myocardium can be 
modeled as conductance, gm, in parallel with capacitance, Cm, and the blood can be modeled as 
conductance, gb (see Fig. 2).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hence, the measured cardiac signals should be labeled admittance rather than conductance. 
The imaginary part of the measured admittance comes from the myocardium only, i.e., 
}Im{
2
1
measm Yf
C ⋅= π         (2) 
where f is the frequency of the injected current signal, and Ymeas is the measured cardiac 
admittance. Assume that both the myocardial permittivity εm and myocardial conductivity σm are 
approximately isotropic constants in the myocardium. Then, a well-known 
conductance-capacitance analogy can be used. 
                       
m
m
mi
mi
g
C
σ
ε=             (3) 
Accordingly, the myocardial conductance, gm, can be calculated from its capacitance by 
m
m
mm Cg ε
σ=          (4) 
The real part of the total admittance between the electrodes comes from blood and myocardial 
conductance; therefore:  
mmeasb gYg −= }Re{            (5) 
gm gb  
Fig. 2 Models of blood, myocardium, and the whole LV 
Blood 
Cm 
Myocardium 
gm 
gb  
Cm 
Model for LV conductance 
 5
Sequence control and most signal processing are performed in the foreground, while only 
sampling, outputting and low-pass filtering are done in interrupt service routines (ISRs). Keeping 
the ISRs as short as possible is the key for real-time data acquisition. For in vivo measurements, 
the frequency of injected current signals is typically 1–100 kHz [13]. In the proposed system, 30 
kHz is chosen as the frequency of injected current signal [1]. However, it can be easily changed 
by slight modification in the DSP code.  
 
IV. Results 
A. Accuracy of Magnitude Measurement 
Figure 4 shows the relationship between the true and measured magnitudes of impedance. 
The magnitudes of biological impedance signals are widely spread. Hence, to demonstrate the 
linearity of the system in a wide range, data are plotted using a log scale. A linear regression line 
was added to emphasize the linearity of the system, and the correlation coefficient is 0.999. 
Maximal error is 3.2%, which occurs at the low end of the impedance magnitude range. 
 
Fig. 4 The relationship between the true and measured magnitudes of impedance   
 
B. Accuracy of Phase Measurement 
An LCR meter (L, C, and R stand for inductance, capacitance, and resistance, respectively), 
MT4090, manufacture by Motech Industries, Inc., Taiwan, is used to calibrate the system. Figure 
5 shows the relationship between the true and measured phase angles of the impedance. A linear 
regression line is added to emphasize the linearity of the system, and the correlation coefficient is 
0.999. The maximal difference between the true and measured phase angles is 0.8°, occurring at 
10 2 103 10 4
10 
2 
10 
3 
10 
4 
R2=0.999
True Magnitude of Impedance (Ω)
M
ea
su
re
d 
M
ag
ni
tu
de
 o
f I
m
pe
da
nc
e 
(Ω
) 
 
 7
References 
 
[1] C. L. Wei, J. W. Valvano, M. D. Feldman, M. Nahrendorf, R. Peshock, and J. A. Pearce, 
“Volume catheter parallel conductance varies between end-systole and end-diastole,” IEEE 
Trans. Biomed. Eng., vol. 54, no. 8, pp. 1480-1489, Aug. 2007. 
[2] Chia-Ling Wei, Jonathan W. Valvano, Marc D. Feldman, John A. Pearce, “Nonlinear 
Conductance-Volume Relationship for Murine Conductance Catheter Measurement System,” 
IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering, vol. 52, no. 10, pp. 1654-1661, 2005. 
[3] Maricela Reyes, Mark E. Steinhelper, Jorge A. Alvarez, Daniel Escobedo, John Pearce, 
Jonathan W. Valvano, Patrick Bradshaw, Chia-Ling Wei, Anil Kottam, David Altman, Shuko 
Lee, Steven Bailey, Sharon Thomsen, Gregory L. Freeman, Marc D. Feldman, “Impact of 
Physiologic Variables and Genetic Background on Myocardial Frequency-Resistivity 
Relations in the Intact Beating Murine Heart,” American Journal of Physiology: Heart and 
Circulatory Physiology, accepted in Feb 2006. 
[4] A. Hartov, R. A. Mazzarese, F. R. Reiss, T. E. Kerner, K. S. Osterman, D. B. Williams, and K. 
D. Paulsen, “A multichannel continuously selectable multifrequency electrical impedance 
spectroscopy measurement system,” IEEE Trans. Biomed. Eng., vol. 47, no. 1, pp.49-58, Jan. 
2000. 
[5] D. Kass, M. Midei, W. Graves, J. Brinker, and W. L. Maughan, “Use of a conductance 
(volume) catheter and transient inferior vena caval occlusion for rapid determination of 
pressure-volume relationships in man,” Cath. Card. Diag., vol. 15, pp. 192–202, 1988. 
[6] J. Baan et al., “Continuous measurement of left ventricular volume in animals and humans by 
conductance catheter,” Circ., vol. 70, pp. 812–823, 1984. 
[7] K. Sagawa, L. Maughan, H. Suga, and K. Sunagawa, Cardiac Contractionand the 
Pressure-Volume Relationship. New York: Oxford Univ. Press, 1988. 
[8] H. Suga, “Cardiac energetics: From Emax to pressure volume area (review),” Clin. Exp. 
Pharm. Physiol., vol. 30, pp. 580–585, 2003. 
[9] D. Georgakopoulos, W. A. Mitzner, C. H. Chen, B. J. Byrne, H. D.Millar, J.M. Hare, and D. 
A. Kass, “In vivo murine left ventricular pressure-volume relations by miniaturized 
conductance micromanometry,”Am. J. Physiol. Heart Circ. Physiol., vol. 274, pp. 
H1416–H1422, 1998.  
[10] M. D. Feldman, J. M. Erikson, Y. Mao, C. E. Korcarz, R. M. Lang, and G. L. Freeman, 
“Validation of a mouse conductance system to determine LV volume: Comparison to 
echocardiography and crystals,” Am. J. Physiol. Heart Circ. Physiol., vol. 279, pp. 
H1698–H1707, 2000. 
[11] C. L. Wei, J. W. Valvano, M. D. Feldman, M. Nahrendorf, and J. A. Pearce, “3D finite 
element complex domain numerical models of electric fields in blood and myocardium,” in 
Proc. IEEE-Engineering in Medicine and Biology . Soc., 25th Annu. Int. Conf., Sep. 2003, pp. 
62–65. 
[12] C. C. Wu, T. C. Skalak, T. R. Schwenk, C. M. Mahler, A. Anne, P. W. Finnerty, H. L. 
Haber, R. M. Weikle, and M. D. Feldman, “Accuracy of the conductance catheter for 
 9
計畫成果自評 
 
研究內容與原計畫相符程度:   
完全符合 
 
達成預期目標情況: 
計畫書中預期達成的目標為 
1. Select a proper signal frequency for admittance measurement. 
2. According to the frequency-selection study, a new method to estimate the time-varying 
myocardial admittance will be proposed. 
3. An analog instruments, including the voltage-to-current converter and signal amplifier, 
will be built. 
4. A microprocessor/DSP program will be developed to do the required signal processing. 
5. A real-time data acquisition system to measure the instantaneous mouse cardiac 
conductance signals will be developed. 
所有目標均已達成! 
 
研究成果之學術或應用價值:  
此系統可描繪即時的心室血壓血量迴路分析圖，以客觀及量化的方式評估心臟及心肌 
功能好壞，可用於心臟基因及用藥研究。 
 
是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利:  
此研究成果已投稿國際知名期刊，正在審核之中；而專利之申請，則在評估之中。 
 
