 II
（二）英文摘要 
Keywords：FlexRay, drive-by-wire, electromagnetic interference, fault injection platform, 
failure mode and effects analysis, safety/robustness validation, IEC 61508, 
EN50159, fault-tolerant mechanism, safety integrity level 
Safety attribute plays a key design metric in safety-critical automotive systems and robot 
control systems. When these systems are implemented with networked electronic control 
units, a robust communication protocol is significant to ensure the transmission correctness. 
To tackle this issue, FlexRay – as the next generation of the in-vehicle network standard – 
not only provides high bandwidth but also fault-tolerant attributes. In this study, we 
investigate the safety issue in safety-critical FlexRay drive-by-wire automotive systems. This 
report describes the results achieved in the first year of two-year research proposal. The 
achievements of this study are first to construct a functional development and verification 
platform (FDVP) for the design of FlexRay drive-by-wire systems and secondly to propose 
an effective safety/robustness validation and enhancement design process (SRVEDP) to 
assist us building a highly safe automotive system. We then employed the FDVP to create a 
simplified steer-by-wire system to demonstrate the capability of FDVP. Next, in the 
development of SRVEDP, we exploited a device called TTXDisturbance Node to construct an 
effective fault injection platform that offers the capability to produce the demanded fault 
scenarios to emulate the EN 50159 threats in FlexRay communication systems. A fault 
scenario generator tool that can be used to automatically create a variety of fault scenarios for 
a specific type or mixed types of message errors was developed to ease the fault injection 
campaigns and enhance the efficiency of the safety assessment and validation process. The 
feasibility of the fault injection platform and generator tool is demonstrated by performing 
the fault injection campaigns in the experimental systems including ping-pong 
communication system and simplified steer-by-wire system. In addition to that, the proposed 
fault injection platform provides an effective means to investigate the failure mode and 
effects analysis, the effectiveness of fault-tolerant mechanisms (FTMs) specified in the 
FlexRay communication system and the system robustness. We have conducted several 
classes of experiments to explore the effectiveness of FTMs including Frame CRC code, the 
configurable protocol-relevant FTM-related cluster parameters, such as action point offset 
(APO), duration of a static slot as well as clock synchronization related thresholds, and frame 
duplication scheme. The thorough experimental results are provided and discussed. These 
results show that the Frame CRC code can deal with the corrupted frame errors quite well; 
the scheme of properly adjusting the configurable protocol-relevant FTM-related cluster 
parameters can effectively cope with the delayed frame errors, and the frame duplication 
mechanism can overcome the corrupted/deleted/delayed frame errors.  
 2
Phase 1 (fault hypotheses): this phase is to identify the potential interferences and develop 
the fault injection strategy to emulate the interference-induced errors. 
Phase 2 (FMEA): this phase is to perform the fault injection campaigns based on the Phase 1 
fault hypotheses. Throughout the injection campaigns, we can identify the failure modes of 
the system, which are caused by the faults/errors injected into the system while the system is 
in operation. The probability distribution of failure modes can be derived from the fault 
injection campaigns. The risk-priority number (RPN) [8] is then calculated for the 
components inside the electronic system. A component’s RPN aims to rate the risk of the 
consequence caused by component’s failure. RPN can be used to locate the critical 
components to be protected. The robustness of the system is computed based on the adopted 
robustness criterion, such as safety integrity level (SIL) defined in the IEC 61508 or 
automotive safety integrity level (ASIL) defined in the ISO 26262. If the robustness of the 
system meets the safety requirement, the system passes the validation; else the robustness is 
not adequate, so Phase 3 is activated to enhance the system robustness.  
Phase 3 (fault-tolerant design): This phase is to develop a feasible and cost-effective 
risk-reduction approach by fault-tolerant design to improve the robustness of the critical 
components identified in Phase 2. The enhanced version then goes to Phase 2 to recheck 
whether the adopted risk-reduction approach can satisfy the safety/robustness requirement 
or not. 
Fig. 1. Safety/robustness validation and enhancement design process 
3. Fault-Tolerant Mechanisms in FlexRay Protocol 
From the viewpoint of design flexibility, FTMs proposed in the FlexRay protocol [10] 
can be classified into the following three categories: 
(a) Inherent and fixed: those FTMs which are essential and nonadjustable belong to this 
category. Typical example is the majority voting mechanism employed in each bit 
sampling. If any glitch occurs during signal transfer, the receiver could avoid making a 
wrong reception of the bit value with the voting mechanism. 
(b) Inherent but adjustable: those FTMs which are essential and configurable through the 
FTM-related parameters belong to this category. A representative example is the ‘action 
point offset’ (APO) that is a period of idle time before the activation of a frame 
transmission in each slot. Corresponding configurable FlexRay parameter 
gdActionPointOffset is used to set its length. Thus adjusting the APO could affect the 
probability of boundary violation/frame collision for the delayed frame errors and the 
• Adopt EN50159 threats
• Find error injection strategy 
to emulate these threats
Robustness
End
Phase 1: 
Fault Hypotheses
Phase 2: 
Failure Mode and 
Effect Analysis
Phase 3: 
Fault-Tolerant
Design
Acceptable
Unacceptable
• Perform error injections
• Observe system behaviors
• Address critical effects to 
be enhanced
Robustness
Criterion
(IEC-61508)
•Adopt FlexRay FTMs to 
reduce probability of  
occurring critical effects
• Adopt additional FTM(s) to 
overcome remaining failures
 4
investigate the effectiveness of FTMs including Frame CRC code, configurable 
protocol-relevant FTM-related cluster parameters, such as action point offset (APO), 
duration of a static slot as well as clock synchronization related thresholds, and frame 
duplication scheme. Fig. 2 shows the architecture of a simplified steer-by-wire system, 
where two nodes are clustered by bus topology to implement the steering control law. We 
basically utilize the Ackermann steering geometry as displayed in Fig. 3 to decide the 
steering angles of front wheels. The expression (1) can be used to calculate the turning 
angles of front wheels according to the angle of steering wheel. The concept of active 
steering can also be implemented in steering control to increase the vehicle maneuverability, 
stability and safety. The steering ratio may be varying with speed data. For example, at 
low/high speed, we could use low/high steering ratios to increase the 
maneuverability/stability of the wheel control. TTXDN was inserted between Node 1 and 
Node 2 to perform the injection of threats into the communication channels. All traffics on 
the bus can be monitored and logged by the TTXConnexion – a FlexRay traffic-monitoring 
device, and analyzed afterwards using TTXAnalyze, the offline analyzing tool supplied 
together with TTXConnexion.  
(1)     cotcotcot
L
B
L
CODO
+=
−
+= ββα
 
   
Fig. 2. Simplified steer-by-wire architecture. 
 
β, α: turning angle of inner and outer front wheels, respectively; 
B: width of front axle; 
L: distance between front and rear axles. 
Fig. 3. Ackermann steering geometry. 
6. Experimental Results and Discussion 
In the following, we briefly summarize the experiments performed and the results 
obtained. 
 6
executes a specific XML test case scenario to disturb the frame messages. A type of 
disturbance scenario specified by XML test case, for example single bit/single frame and 
multiple bits/multiple frames, represents the number of frames (single or multiple) to be 
corrupted, and the number of bit errors (single or multiple) to be corrupted in a frame. The 
experimental results show that the type of syntax error occurs if header-CRC, or frame-CRC 
or both can detect the corrupted error. When header-CRC and frame-CRC fail to detect the 
errors, the checking of content error is activated. If corrupted error is not covered by the 
content error check, the silent data corruption appears.  
6.2. Configurable Protocol-Relevant FTM-Related Cluster Parameters 
6.2.1. Scenarios of delayed frame errors 
Fig. 6 illustrates the scenarios of delayed frame errors. As shown in Fig. 6(a), a static 
slot consists of three parts: APO, frame and idle. The length of static slot is equal to the 
summation of the lengths of APO, frame and idle. According to the configuration constraint 
of the static slot length specified in FlexRay protocol [10], the length of idle part is equal to 
or greater than the length of APO. APO and idle are the durations of the communication 
channel not used to transmit the frame data. Therefore, the lengths of APO and idle decide 
the safety margin for the delayed frame errors. Clearly, the larger values of APO and idle 
offer the higher safety margin, but sacrifice the channel bandwidth. 
Fig. 6(b) - (d) show the possible scenarios for delayed frame errors, which depend on 
the values of APO, idle and the delay ∆t of the frame. If frame delay ∆t is small, the delay 
error won’t cause any trouble for the frame transmission and reception due to adequate idle 
phase as exhibited in Fig. 6(b). Fig. 6(c) illustrates a case where the boundary violation (BV) 
occurs due to the delayed frame approaching to or crossing over the start point of next slot. 
A boundary violation occurs if the node does not consider the channel to be idle at the 
boundary of a slot. Since the enough idle duration exists between delayed frame n and 
frame n+1 in the case of Fig. 6(c), the frame n can still be recognized and received. Fig. 6(d) 
shows an excessive delay for frame n, which interferes with the frame n+1 and inhibits the 
correct reception of frame n. The invalid frame occurs as exhibited in Fig. 6(d) when the 
delayed frame n approaches to or collides with the frame n+1. The delayed frame n is 
treated as invalid by the receiver if the safety margin between frame n and frame n+1 is not 
sufficient to allow the frame to be properly identified and received. 
Fig. 7 describes the consequences of delayed frame errors where the delayed frame 
errors can occur either in the data frame or sync frame. The resulting consequences of 
delayed frame errors can be no effect at all, BV with valid frame, and BV with invalid 
frame. The delay occurring in the sync frame could affect the quality of clock 
synchronization for the received nodes. The effect of delayed sync frame errors on the clock 
synchronization is discussed as follows. 
The FlexRay protocol employs the time-triggered communication scheme (or called 
time division multiple access (TDMA) scheme) in the static segment. The time-triggered 
system must guarantee that every node in the cluster has approximately the same view of 
time. To achieve that, the distributed clock synchronization technique is exploited to 
synchronize the nodes in the cluster. Each node individually synchronizes itself to the 
cluster by observing the timing of transmitted sync frames from other nodes. It is no doubt 
that the clock synchronization plays a crucial role for the nodes to correctly communicate 
each other in the cluster. Obviously, the delayed sync frame errors could cause the clock 
synchronization failures in the cluster.  
Each node in the cluster will check the offset and rate correction values calculated 
based on the received sync frames and fault-tolerant midpoint algorithm to see whether the 
 8
6.2.2. APO and slot length 
We investigate the impact of configuring the APO and slot length on the FlexRay 
communication system under the delayed frame errors. Table I lists the settings of 
configurable protocol parameters [10] used in the experiments. The parameters 
pOffsetCorrectionOut and pRateCorrectionOut specify the limits for the 
‘EXCEEDS_BOUNDS’ error checking; gMaxWithoutClockCorrectionPassive and 
gMaxWithoutClockCorrectionFatal are the parameters for the ‘MISSING_TERM’ error 
checking; pAllowPassiveToActive is a parameter, which specifies the number of consecutive 
even/odd cycle pairs that must have valid clock correction terms before the communication 
controller (CC) will be allowed to transition from the POC: normal passive state to POC: 
normal active state; pAllowHaltDueToClock was set to be true to allow the CC entering the 
POC: halt state due to clock synchronization failure. 
The delayed frame errors where the delay ∆t is controlled between 0.26µs and 6.0µs with 
the incremental step of 0.01µs were injected into the ‘data’ frame, and ‘sync’ frame in the 
conducted experiments. We assume that the probability distribution of delay ∆t follows the 
uniform distribution, and the rate of valid frame and rate of clock synchronization failure in 
Table II to Table V are calculated by this assumption. In the following, the experimental 
results are presented and discussed. 
6.2.2.1 Fixed APO and varied slot lengths 
We fixed the value of APO and varied the idle duration as well as the slot length in 
this experiment. Table II and III give the experimental results for delayed errors injected in 
the data frame ID 1 and sync frame ID 3 respectively, where the duration of frame is 45µs. 
We define the slot bandwidth utilization as the ratio of frame duration to slot length. This 
ratio indicates the bandwidth utilization for a frame transmitted in the static slot. The data in 
the column of no effect, for example, APO = 3µs and slot length = 51µs, mean that if the 
delay ∆t as shown in Fig. 6 falls inside the duration of 0.26~2.72µs, it will not induce any 
trouble for the receiver. The similar concept can be used to explain the data provided in the 
columns of BV + valid frame, and BV + invalid frame. The results in Table II show that the 
rate of valid frame increases significantly with the increase of idle and slot lengths. 
However, we need to slightly sacrifice the slot bandwidth utilization to gain the more 
reliable frame transmission.  
The data in the column of delay range of clock synchronization failure give us the 
duration of delay in which the delayed sync frame errors will lead the received nodes and 
cluster to out of synchronization. Interestingly, the increase of the slot length increases the 
delay range and rate of clock synchronization failure too. This phenomenon observed 
reveals that fixing the APO and enlarging the slot length only benefits the delay errors 
occurring in the data frames, but damages the robustness of clock synchronization process. 
Table I. Configurable protocol parameter settings. 
parameter value parameter value 
gMaxWithoutClockCorrection- 
Passive 
3 pAllowHalt- 
DueToClock 
true 
gMaxWithoutClockCorrection- 
Fatal 
3 pAllowPassive- 
ToActive 
1 
pOffsetCorrectionOut (µT) 128 pdMicrotick 0.025µs 
pRateCorrectionOut (µT) 400 gdMacrotick 1µs 
pDecodingCorrection (µT) 72   
 10
5 56 6 80.4% 0.26~5.59 5.60~6.00  100% 
6 58 7 77.6% 0.26~6.00   100% 
 
Table V. Experimental results for delayed sync frame errors. 
APO 
(µs) 
Slot 
length 
(µs)  
Delay range of 
clock 
synchronization 
failure (µs) 
Rate of clock 
synchronization 
failure 
3 52 4.01~4.8 13.8% 
4 54 5~5.89 15.5% 
5 56 5.85~6 2.6% 
6 58  0% 
 
 
Fig. 8. The observation of the effect of delayed frames. 
7. Conclusions 
In this study, we investigate the safety issue in safety-critical FlexRay drive-by-wire 
systems. We construct a FDVP for the design of FlexRay drive-by-wire systems and 
propose an effective SRVEDP to assist us building a highly safe automotive system. In the 
development of SRVEDP, a fault injection platform in compliance with the error modes of 
message defined in EN50159 for FlexRay communication systems was built. An effective 
fault scenario generator tool was developed to enhance the efficiency of the fault injection 
process. We have performed an enormous number of experiments to verify the feasibility of 
the proposed fault injection platform and generator tool. The impacts of corrupted frame 
errors and delayed frame errors on FlexRay communication systems were studied, and the 
effectiveness of FTMs for various error modes was explored. The experiments of 
disturbance of frame stream delay were conducted to explore the impact of configurable 
protocol-relevant cluster parameters, such as APO, static slot length and clock 
synchronization related thresholds on the tolerance capability of delayed frame errors. The 
experimental results show that the APO setting dominates the capability of tolerance for 
delayed frame errors, especially for delayed sync frame errors. Therefore, a proper value of 
APO should be decided carefully in the design process. The experimental results derived 
from the fault injection campaigns reveal that varying the APO and slot length concurrently 
has a much better capability to conquer the delayed sync frame errors on the clock 
synchronization failure than varying the slot length with fixed APO. Finally, the 
experimental results show that the Frame CRC code technique can deal with the corrupted 
frame errors quite well; the scheme of configurable protocol-relevant FTM-related cluster 
parameters can effectively cope with the delayed frame errors, and the frame duplication 
mechanism can overcome the corrupted/deleted/delayed frame errors. 
Frame n Frame n + 1
Idle APO Action Point Offset
Dist.
boundary boundary+0.8µs boundary-0.4µs
BV+valid frame BV+invalid frameNo Effect
 12
計畫成果自評: 
 學術發表: 計畫成果已發表在兩個國際會議，以及即將發表在一個 SCIE 的期刊。
目前正在整理另一篇 SCI 的期刊 “Design and Analysis of Fault-Tolerant 
Steer-by-Wire Systems”，預計在近期內投稿。 
 計畫成果分享:  
 Keynote Speaker: The 2011 International Conference on Computer Engineering and 
Applications (ICCEA 2011), July 15 - 17, 2011. 
 中原大學電機講座專題演講，10/13/2011。 
 中央大學電機所專題演講，11/02/2011。 
 計畫研究延伸的應用價值、產學合作及相關技術成果推廣 
 財團法人車輛研究測試中心(ARTC)
 
所舉辦的先進底盤系統開發與趨勢研討會: 
“ISO26262 車用電子安全性設計介紹”場次的共同主講人， 2010 年 11 月 30 日。 
 目前我們團隊正在與 SGS 台灣分公司、金屬工業研究發展中心及相關產業界 (包
括華創車電 (LUXGEN))，籌組"台灣前瞻車電魯棒性聯盟  (Taiwan Advanced 
Autotronics Robustness Alliance)"。SGS 台灣分公司希望借重我們團隊在此領域累
積的技術、經驗和研發成果，希望透過聯盟來推動車用電子安全性暨可靠性前瞻
技術，協助產業界技術和研發能力的升級。此聯盟主要是要推動 ISO 26262 的汽
車電子系統安全度設計、測試和驗證標準，希望能建立一套符合 ISO 26262 安全
規範的設計驗證流程，並以 safety case 來驗證流程的可行性及正確性。希望將此
符合 ISO 26262 安全規範的設計驗證流程引進到產業界，協助高階車用電子的產
品可以符合 ISO 26262 安全規範。最近聯盟舉辦的研討會包括“SGS 汽車電子電
機產品機能安全研討會”(09/14/2011) 和“2011 汽車電控機能安全技術交流國際
研討會”(10/26/2011)。我們團隊可以提供顧問的功能，透過訓練課程協助產業界
獲得最新的汽車電控機能安全技術，協助將 ISO 26262 安全規範引進到產業界，
以及協助產業界通過 ISO 26262 安全規範認證。 
 與金屬工業研究發展中心洽談三年合作計畫，希望將團隊在汽車電控機能安全領
域累積的技術、經驗和研發成果，可以協助金屬中心開發一套具有容錯能力高可
靠度/安全度的通用型車電系統應用平台。 
 以上報告說明這個計畫執行的主要成果，從以上說明可以很明顯看到執行的成果與
原計畫完全相符、且達成所設定的預期目標、以及研究成果具有相當具體之學術和
應用價值。 
  
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                             100 年 7 月 19 日 
報告人姓名  陳永源 
 
服務機構 
及職稱 
 
台北大學電機工程研究所 
教授 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
7 月 15-17, 2011 
中國大陸、海口 
本會核定 
補助文號 
 
NSC 99-2221-E-305-016 
 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文)  
 (英文) 2011 3rd International Conference on Computer Engineering and 
       Applications 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 
 (英文) Development of Fault Scenario Generator Tool for FlexRay 
Communication Systems 
 
 
 
表 Y04 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳永源 計畫編號：99-2221-E-305-016- 
計畫名稱：FlexRay 線傳駕駛系統安全性研究 
量化 
成果項目 
實際已達
成數（被接
受或已發
表） 
預期總達成
數(含實際
已達成數)
本計畫
實際貢
獻百分
比 
單位
備註（質化說明：如數
個計畫共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之 封 面 故
事...等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告 /技術報
告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次
 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告 /技術報
告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
Keynote Speaker: The 
2011 International 
Conference on Computer 
Engineering and 
Applications (ICCEA 
2011), Haikou, China, 
July 15 – 17, 2011. 
Title: ’’’’FlexRay: 
Next Generation 
Automotive 
Drive-by-Wire 
Communication 
Systems’’’’ 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
國外 
參與計畫人力 碩士生 0 0 100% 人次  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
計畫成果已發表在兩個國際會議，以及即將發表在一個 SCIE 的期刊。目前正在整理另一
篇 SCI 的期刊 ’Design and Analysis of Fault-Tolerant Steer-by-Wire Systems’，預
計在近期內投稿。 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
 1. 計畫成果分享:  
 Keynote Speaker: The 2011 International Conference on Computer Engineering and 
Applications (ICCEA 2011), July 15 - 17, 2011. 
 中原大學電機講座專題演講，10/13/2011。 
 中央大學電機所專題演講，11/02/2011。 
 2. 計畫研究延伸的應用價值、產學合作及相關技術成果推廣 
 a. 財團法人車輛研究測試中心(ARTC) 所舉辦的先進底盤系統開發與趨勢研討會: ’
ISO26262 車用電子安全性設計介紹’場次的共同主講人， 2010 年 11 月 30 日。 
 b. 目前我們團隊正在與 SGS 台灣分公司、金屬工業研究發展中心及相關產業界 (包括
華創車電(LUXGEN))，籌組’’’’台灣前瞻車電魯棒性聯盟 (Taiwan Advanced 
Autotronics Robustness Alliance)’’’’。SGS 台灣分公司希望借重我們團隊在此領
域累積的技術、經驗和研發成果，希望透過聯盟來推動車用電子安全性暨可靠性前瞻技
術，協助產業界技術和研發能力的升級。此聯盟主要是要推動 ISO 26262 的汽車電子系統
安全度設計、測試和驗證標準，希望能建立一套符合 ISO 26262 安全規範的設計驗證流程，
並以 safety case 來驗證流程的可行性及正確性。希望將此符合 ISO 26262 安全規範的設
計驗證流程引進到產業界，協助高階車用電子的產品可以符合 ISO 26262 安全規範。最近
