2identification to achieve this goal. The conventional techniques of the rollback-dependency graph
and checkpoint graph will be analyzed as well. In particular, we try to find what causal
information can be piggybacked on application messages to facilitate the rollback recovery
process when a transient failure occurs. At last, we will conduct some simulation experiments to
certify the performance of our algorithm, by using a C-based discrete-event simulation language,
PARSEC [18]. The simulation study will be carried out in several typical computational
environments
三、文獻探討：
During the last decade, several CIC protocols have been introduced in the literature [5,
9-14]. However, few works have been done for investigating the rollback recovery issues of CIC
protocols. An index-based type of CIC protocol associates each local checkpoint with a sequence
number in a way that local checkpoints with the same sequence number are guaranteed to form a
consistent global checkpoint. Hence, it can find an approximation recovery line efficiently.
Moreover, CIC protocols can be used to accomplish a stronger property called
Rollback-Dependency Trackability (RDT) [8]. Such a property assures that all hidden
dependencies among checkpoints are made on-line trackable by a simple transitive dependency
vector. In addition to prohibiting the domino effect, RDT has two other noteworthy properties [8]:
(1) it ensures that any set of local checkpoints that are not pairwise causally related can be
extended to form a consistent global checkpoint; (2) it enjoys efficient calculations of the
minimum and the maximum consistent global checkpoints that contain a given set of local
checkpoints. Particularly, an RDT protocol allows processes to find the recovery line in an
efficient and decentralized manner. But simulation results show that an RDT protocol needs much
more forced checkpoints than an ordinary CIC protocol that only prevents the domino effect [15].
Since all processes need to stop for the search of the recovery line during a rollback recovery
process, it seems not worthwhile to satisfy the RDT property just for a decentralized recovery line
search manner.
Recently, some fast rollback recovery algorithms are proposed [16, 17]. These methods
mainly calculate numbers of orphan messages to skip some unnecessary checkpoints such that
they can find the globally consistent checkpoints quickly. However, the proposed checkpointing
scheme will require many checkpoints since a process takes one after a message is received.
Moreover, the proposed checkpointing scheme cannot prevent the domino effect. In the worst
case, all processes may rollback to their initial checkpoints. More importantly, the proposed
checkpointing scheme cannot be classified as communication-induced checkpointing because it
takes a checkpoint after, not before, a message is received, and these checkpoints are regular
basic checkpoints but not additional forced ones.
四、研究方法：
First, we have to understand the notion of state consistency. A message m sent by process Pi
to process Pj is called orphan with respect to the ordered pair of local checkpoints (Ci,x, Cj,y) if
and only if the receiving event of m occurs before Cj,y but its sending event occurs after Ci,x. An
ordered pair of local checkpoints is consistent if and only if there are no orphan messages with
4the rollback-dependency graph (or the checkpoint graph) method to find the recovery line. As
described in the previous paragraph, such a process is complex and tedious. But the assumption
of Theorem 2 may give some special properties to a resultant rollback-dependency graph
produced by CIC protocols so that we can determine the recovery line faster than an ordinary
rollback-dependency graph. We will try to find out these properties in this project.
Furthermore, a zigzag path may be not on-line trackable. This intrinsic scenario makes the
recovery line determination more sophisticated. The RDT property lets all zigzag paths on-line
trackable by a simple transitive dependency vector [8]. This is why it can allow processes to
decide the recovery line in an efficient and decentralized way. In this project, we will also try to
explore what properties the RDT property can impose on the rollback-dependency graph such
that a process can determine the recovery so efficiently.
Since orphan messages are the key point for constituting a consistent global checkpoint,
identifying orphan messages may help us search the recovery line more quickly. In [16, 17],
every process Pi collects the total number of messages sent to it from other processes and also
records the number of messages it has received. The difference between these two numbers can
approximately exhibit the number of orphan messages for process Pi. According to such
information, checkpoints that can not belong to the recovery line can be skipped by Pi. Although
the proposed rollback recovery schemes in [16, 17] are not suitable for CIC protocols, the
concept of identifying orphan messages may be a good direction for our research. We will
investigate whether such a concept is useful in this project. Moreover, we will also explore the
rollback dependency graph method, to see which causal information may be carried on messages
to facilitate the recovery line determination, even to introduce a new property that CIC protocols
can accomplish by taking forced checkpoints to achieve the goal of fast rollback recovery.
五、結果與討論：
After analyzing related papers proposed in the literature, we found that the improved lazy
indexing technique proposed in [11] can achieve the goal that finds the most approximate
recovery in an on-line manner. Such a method defines an equivalence relation between
consecutive checkpoints of a process by subtly tracing orphan messages. If two continuous
checkpoints in a process are equivalent, there are no orphan messages received between them
such that their sequence numbers can be the same to allow the progression of the present
consistent global checkpoint to the latter checkpoint. The protocol introduced in the same paper
actually can accomplish the objective of this project. However, simulation results in [20] shows
that in a homogeneous system where the rates of taking basic checkpoints among all processes
are almost the same, such an indexing techniques may produce asymmetry instead since the
sequence number of some process, which receives fewer messages from other processes, will lag
behind those of others. Therefore, in this project, we have tried to improve this indexing
technique.
We discovered that an indexing method exhibits different performance for different degrees
of heterogeneity imposed on a distributed system. Unfortunately, all existing index-based CIC
protocols merely exploit one fixed indexing scheme. From the simulation results of [20], they
cannot suit themselves well to different extents of heterogeneity imposed on various distributed
6pp. 181-192, Feb. 1999.
[12] G. M. D. Vieira, I. C. Garcia, and L. E. Buzato, “Systematic analysis of index-based
checkpointing algorithms using simulation,” Proc. of IX Brazilian Symp. on Fault-Tolerant
Comput., 2001.
[13] I. C. Garcia, G. M. D. Vieira, and L. E. Buzato, “RDT-partner: an efficient checkpointing
protocol that enforces rollback-dependency trackability,” Proc. Brazilian Symp. Computer
Networks, May, 2001.
[14] F. Quaglia, R. Baldoni, and B. Ciciani, “On the no-Z-cycle property in distributed
executions,” Journal of Computer and System Sci., vol. 61, no. 3, pp. 400-427, Dec. 2000.
[15] J. Tsai, “Systematic comparisons of RDT communication-induced checkpointing protocols,” 
Proc. IEEE Pacific Rim Int’l Symp. Dependable Computing, Tahiti, French Polynesia, pp. 66-75,
Mar. 2004.
[16] B. Gupta, Z. Liu, and Z. Liang, “A fast recovery scheme for distributed systems,” Proc. Int’l 
Conf. Parallel and Distributed Processing Techniques and Applications, Las Vegas, pp. 360-366,
June 2002.
[17] B. Gupta, Z. Liu, and Z. Liang, “On designing direct dependency-based fast recovery
algorithms for distributed systems”, Operating Systems Review, vol. 38, no. 1, pp. 58-73, Jan.
2004.
[18] UCLA Parallel Computing Laboratory, PARSEC Simulation Languages Release 1.1,
http://pcl.cs.ucla.edu/projects/parsec/, 1999.
[19] R. H. B. Netzer and J. Xu, “Necessary and suficient conditions for consistent global 
snapshots,” IEEE Trans. Parallel and Distrib. Syst., vol. 6, no. 2, pp. 165-169, Feb. 1995.
[20] J. Tsai, “Performance comparisons of index-based communication-induced checkpointing
protocols,”Journal of the Chinese Institute of Engineers, vol. 29, no. 6, pp. 1113-1118, Oct.
2006.
計畫成果自評：
The main objective of this project is to propose an efficient rollback-recovery protocol. We
achieve this goal by finding several efficient dynamic indexing techniques that can assign a
checkpoint with a proper sequence number. We have submitted the results produced in this
project to IEEE 2007 Pacific Rim International Symposium on Dependable Computing and the
paper is also accepted. Moreover, we are revising our results in order to submit it to an
international journal like Journal of Parallel and distributed Computing recently. Finally,
students who participate in this project can have deep understanding about the properties of CIC
protocols.
