 II
quantization process may cause some information loss if the image is lossy 
compressed. The coding paradigm of JPEG2000 can be viewed as a two-tiered 
structure as shown in Fig. 1 and will be explained in detail below. Rate control is 
applied in quantization and coding steps to achieve the targeted bit-rate. The decoder 
side basically reverses the operations by decoding and dequantizing the bit-stream and 
applying the inverse image transform to reconstruct the image. 
 
 
 
Figure 1 JPEG2000 coding block diagram 
 
The proposed steganographic scheme is closely related to the two-tiered coding 
structure in JPEG2000. In tier-1 coding, the quantization indices for each subband are 
partitioned into code blocks, which are independently coded using a bit-plane coder. 
More specifically, the code block is coded one bit-plane at a time starting from the 
most significant bit-plane to the least significant bit-plane. Each individual bit-plane is 
coded with three coding passes. The first coding pass is the significance propagation 
pass, which conveys significance and necessary sign information for samples that 
have not yet been found to be significant and are predicted to become significant. The 
second coding pass is the magnitude refinement pass. All bits that became significant 
in a previous bit-plane are conveyed in this pass by using binary symbols. The final 
pass is the cleanup pass, in which all bits that have not yet been coded during the 
previous two passes are encoded. The symbols generated from the significance 
propagation and the magnitude refinement passes can be either raw coded or entropy 
coded by a context-based adaptive binary arithmetic coder, i.e. MQ coder. The 
cleanup pass is run-length coded and always processed by the MQ coder. The output 
of the tier-1 encoding process is therefore a collection of compact representations of 
coding passes for the code blocks. Tier-2 coding operates on the summary information 
of code blocks, which determines block contributions to the final code stream. The 
bit-stream of each code-block is truncated in an optimal way so as to minimize 
Forward 
transform 
Quantization Tier-1 
encoding 
Inverse 
transform 
Dequantizatio
n 
Tier-1 
decoding 
Tier-2 
decoding 
JPEG-2000 
bit-stream 
Tier-2 
encoding 
Expanded 
image 
Source 
image 
 IV
information hiding with less chance of being noticed. 
 
Information hiding is achieved by modifying the data in the coding passes. Among the 
three types of coding passes, only the magnitude refinement passes are chosen in our 
steganographic scheme. The cleanup passes are definitely prohibited since they are 
always entropy/run-length coded and modification of them will cause errors in 
expanding the bit-stream. The significant passes carry the significance and necessary 
sign information. Although the significant passes may be raw coded, the modification 
may cause either sign flipping or decoding errors as well. The magnitude refinement 
passes carry subsequent bits after the most significant bit for each sample. When the 
magnitude refinement passes are raw coded, modification of them will not cause 
problems. Besides, the significant bits or MSB of each sample can act as visual 
masking so that the change of these subsequent bits can be made less obvious. 
Furthermore, the amount of raw coded magnitude refinement passes is quite large so 
carrying a large payload is achievable. By considering these factors, we conclude that 
only the magnitude refinement pass is suitable for steganographic purposes. 
 
3. Selection of Refinement Passes for Embedding 
 
In order to avoid degrading the composite image severely, we may only use a subset 
of the raw coded magnitude refinement passes for information embedding. To 
selecting suitable magnitude refinement passes for steganography, we consider the 
importance of these passes to the overall quality of the compressed image. The tier-2 
coding achieves rate scalability through multiple quality layers. Each coding pass is 
either assigned to one of the layers or discarded according to its rate-distortion slope, 
which is calculated in the tier-1 coding and passed to the tier-2 coding for organizing 
the code stream. The coding passes with larger rate-distortion slopes are included 
earlier in the lower layers, while the coding passes with smaller rate-distortion slopes 
are included later in the higher layers. 
 
Our goal is to hide as much information as possible with the minimal impact on the 
image quality. Obviously, the embedding process should function in the opposite 
order of the tier-2 coding by selecting less important coding passes earlier for 
modifying. Therefore, we propose the idea of backward embedding to take account of 
the importance of the passes to the overall image quality. After the tier-2 coding 
determines the passes that will be included into the code stream, an extra procedure 
embeds the information backward, starting from the last included refinement pass. On 
one hand, modifying these insignificant passes may be similar to discarding them, 
 VI
the distortion with each coefficient is not recorded and we simply use the sum of the 
square of the difference in each bit-plane to estimate the square of the sum of the 
difference in each bit-plane. However, in most of the common cases, we found that 
many intermediate terms between bit-planes tend to cancel each other. Besides, the 
overestimate and underestimate compensate each other, as the number of the 
bit-planes is large. This method will thus provide us a pretty good estimation of the 
additional distortion introduced by information embedding. 
 
The second estimation method is to utilize the distortion of each pass calculated 
during the tier-1 encoding. The distortion improvement of each pass is estimated by 
the difference between the distortion measured before and after including the pass. 
The distortion is recorded and then evaluated with the rate increase of this pass for 
rate control. We can view this step as a measurement of importance of the pass since 
the inclusion of the pass with large distortion improvement makes great impact on the 
compressed image. We believe that, in information embedding, if the host signal and 
the hidden signal are both of the uniform distribution, the distortion introduced by 
embedding or modifying the content of the pass would be very similar to discarding 
the whole pass. Therefore, we may also use this distortion measurement of a pass as 
an estimation of the distortion resulting from information embedding. A clear benefit 
of this method is that the overhead of information hiding is made as small as possible 
since the embedding process shares the same procedure of distortion measurement in 
the coding process. Besides, this estimation method allows us to measure the 
distortion of the host image even before the secret information is embedded. By using 
this estimation method, we may predict the distortion of many images in advance and 
choose a more appropriate one for hiding the targeted information. It should be noted 
that the mid-point reconstruction rule is often employed in the distortion measurement 
in the tier-1 coding. Information hiding, however, results in bit flipping without 
mid-point reconstruction as done in the dequantization step. Therefore, we multiply 
the distortion estimated in the tier-1 coding by 2 as a measurement of the distortion 
introduced by modifying this pass. 
 
5. Steganalysis of the Proposed Scheme 
 
Now we try to play the role of an eavesdropper to clarify some security issues to 
which we should pay attention when designing a steganographic scheme. The first 
step the eavesdropper may take is to analyze the bit-stream structure. One drawback 
of the proposed scheme is that the information-hiding procedure is operated in a 
special mode of JPEG2000, i.e. the lazy mode. Some people may question that the 
 VIII
IV. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
 
The implementation of our steganographic scheme was based on JASPER. We used 
the four well-known gray-level images, Lena, Boat, Peppers and Baboon, as the host 
images, all with the same size of 512x512, to carry the generalized binary information. 
We assume that the image will be compressed into the bit-stream with a high bit-rate, 
i.e. 2 bpp. It should be noted that the length of the bit-stream is not changed by the 
information-hiding process. In other words, the embedding process will only affect 
the quality of the image by modifying the bit-stream content. 
 
First of all, we would like to justify the claim that the lazy mode coding does not give 
an inferior performance compared with the normal mode in the case of high bit-rate 
image coding. We compressed Lena, Baboon, Boat and Peppers images from 0.5 bpp 
to 2 bpp with the normal mode and the lazy mode and then compared the PSNR 
values of the expanded images in each case. The results are shown in Table I. We see 
that the difference of PSNR values is very limited. It should be noted that the larger 
difference, such as Peppers in 2 bpp, comes from the fact that the two compressed 
bit-streams are different in their lengths although we have tried to make them as close 
to the target bit-rate as possible. This result may suggest that the lazy mode is 
applicable in many cases and the compression/decompression speed is thus 
tremendously improved without much quality degradation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One of the main advantages of this steganography scheme over other JPEG-based 
schemes is its controllable distortion during the process of information embedding. As 
we mentioned before, we can estimate the additional distortion in MSE in the wavelet 
domain quite precisely. In order to simplify the structure without increasing memory 
consumption, we presented two methods to roughly estimate the distortion introduced 
by information embedding. Figure 2 shows the additional MSE measured in Lena, 
Boat, Peppers and Baboon. The horizontal axis represents the number of magnitude 
refinement passes that are chosen for information hiding. As more passes are 
TABLE I 
The Comparison of PSNR (dB) using the lazy and 
the normal modes under various bit-rates (bpp) 
Bit-rate 0.50 0.75 1.00 1.25 1.50 1.75 2.00 
Lenan 37.06 38.92 40.31 41.55 42.75 43.94 45.12
Lenaz 37.01 38.87 40.26 41.50 42.69 43.87 45.04
Boatn 33.15 35.11 36.61 37.98 39.30 40.61 41.91
Boatz 33.14 35.06 36.55 37.91 39.21 40.52 41.81
