 2
一、摘要 
奈米定位器被泛用在顯微術、精密量測、微加工、微操控、半導體製程設備等先進領
域，其中一個重要的應用便是原子力顯微術，它是奈米科技發展不可或缺的檢測工具。原
子力顯微鏡的用途廣泛，例如表面形貌測繪、奈米顆粒粒徑分析、微彈性量測等。然而原
子力顯微鏡最大的缺點就是速度慢，故本計畫的目標便是發展一高速奈米定位器。我們提
出「平行細柱群」彈性導引機構、多致動器並聯式機構、光纖干涉儀等多項新穎設計，所
整合出的高速奈米定位器，預期可以 15kHz 的頻寬驅動 18g 的負載。在未來可以帶動以光
碟讀取頭為核心的探針撓曲量測模組，搭配「螺旋軌跡掃描法」，構成具有每秒 30 張取像
能力的掃針式即時奈米攝影機。如此便可獲致突破性的應用，例如產線上快速奈米尺度缺
陷篩檢。 
 
關鍵詞：奈米定位、原子力顯微術、平行細柱群 
 
Nano-positioners are widely used in the fields of microscopy, precision measurement, 
micro-machining, micro-manipulation, and semi-conductor fabrication equipments. Among these 
advanced application, an important one is atomic force microscopy (AFM). AFM is an essential 
tool for the development of nanotechnology. It can be utilized on nano-topography, nano-particle 
analysis, and nano-elasticity measurement. However, the main drawback of AFM is its slow 
operation speed. Therefore, the purpose of this project is to develop a high-speed nano-positioner. 
Some innovative designs like “thin column group” guidance, multi-actuator parallel mechanism, 
and Fabry-Perot optical fiber interferometer are proposed. It is expected to achieve a 15 kHz 
bandwidth with an 18g payload. In the future work, this nano-positioner is able to carry a 
pick-up-head based probe measuring module to scan rapidly in an AFM. After adopting “spiral 
scanning method”, a real-time nano-camera with 30 frame/s imaging capability can be realized. 
Hence some applications of cutting edge will be attained, for example, the on-line nano-scale 
defects detection. 
 
Keywords: nano-positioning, atomic force microscope (AFM), thin column group 
 
二、前言 
單就奈米定位器而言，它被泛用在顯微術、精密量測、微加工、微操控等領域，其中
一個重要的應用例便是原子力顯微術。原子力顯微術利用極尖的矽質探針，以機械方法測
繪樣品表面，故可以突破光學繞射極限，達到奈米解析度。若利用奈米碳管沾附於針尖[1]，
甚至可以達到原子解析度。原子力顯微術的應用很廣，例如面形貌測繪、晶圓表面粗糙度
量測、奈米顆粒粒徑分析、生物樣品微彈性量測等。相較於其他顯微技術，原子力顯微術
具有許多特殊的優點，所以成為奈米檢測領域不可或缺的工具。如果速度能夠有效提高，
更可以應用在產線上快速製程缺陷檢測、快速病原體鑑定、奈米解析度表面物理與生物化
學過程錄影，衝擊性與重要性可見一斑，是非常值得投入的研究題材。 
 4
壓電致動器因為材料剛硬、出力大、能量轉換效率高等優點而在奈米定位器應用領域
勝出。它有個缺點是行程較短（約全長的 0.2%），然而可用串聯多組致動器或是加裝放大
機構的手法來克服。加裝放大機構會犧牲頻寬不符前述需求，故串聯多組致動器是最單純
的解決方案。換個角度想，原子力顯微鏡的解析度是奈米等級，數十微米的視野已經很大。
若要視野上達一百微米以上，一般的光學顯微鏡即可觀察，不需要用到原子力顯微鏡。環
顧市售商品化原子力顯微鏡的掃描行程也絕少超過一百微米以上的。故在本計畫所設定的
應用範圍內，數十微米的行程合理而足夠，這也是一般壓電致動器可以勝任的範圍。 
調查壓電奈米定位器的相關研究，國內以台大機械系張所鋐教授執牛耳[15, 16]，國外
以美國 UCSB 的 Paul K. Hansma 教授負盛名[17]。Hansma 研究群特別為高速化原子力顯
微鏡所設計的壓電掃描器[18]，它的速度比起一般市售商品化的奈米定位器[19]快得多，
可以達到 85Hz 的線掃描率，若影像畫素為 250×250，相當於 0.34 frame/s，但對於即時顯
像（30 frame/s）的目標仍有一段差距。 
整體而言，本計畫的目的是設計製作一高速奈米定位器，可以應用在高速化原子力顯
微鏡上。在未來搭配本人已有初步成果的一些新技術，例如螺旋軌跡掃描法[20]、
Post-fitting 控制法則[5]、光碟讀取頭精密量測技術[21]，造就一高速化的掃針式原子力顯
微鏡系統，目標是人眼即時顯像（30 frame/s），達成所謂「即時奈米顯微攝影術」。一旦
成功，可以應用在產線上快速製程缺陷檢測、快速病原體鑑定、奈米解析度表面物理與生
物化學過程錄影，衝擊性與重要性可見一斑，是非常值得投入的研究題材。本人兼具機械
與電機背景，過去三年間發表過幾項相關且饒負創意的研究成果，有利基投入此一題材。 
 
[1] Y.C. Chang, C.S. Chang, D.C. Wang, M.H. Lee, T.F. Wang, M.Y. Wu, T.Y. Fu, and Tien 
T. Tsong, “Nanoscale Imaging of Biomolecules by Controlled Carbon Nanotube Probes” 
Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 43, 4517 2004. 
[2] G. Binnig, C. F. Quate, and C. Gerber, “Atomic force microscope,” Phys. Rev. Lett., Vol. 
56, pp. 930-933, 1986. 
[3] G. E. Fantner, P. Hegarty, J. H. Kindt, G. Schitter, G. A. G. Cidade, and P. K. Hansma, 
“Data acquisition system for high speed atomic force microscopy,” Rev. Sci. Instr. 76, 
026118, 2005. 
[4] P. Ge and M. Jouaneh: IEEE Trans. Control Syst. Technol. 4, 209, 1996. 
[5] S. K. Hung, E. T. Hwu, I. S. Hwang,and L. C. Fu, “Postfitting Control Scheme for 
Periodic Piezoscanner Driving,” Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Vol. 45, No. 3B, pp. 1917–1921, 
2006. 
[6] D.A. Walters, J.P. Cleveland, N.H. Thomson, P.K. Hansma, M.A. Wendman, G. Gurley, 
and V. Elings, “Short Cantilevers for Atomic Force Microscopy,” Rev. Sci. Instr. 67, 
3583-3590, 1996. 
[7] G. Schitter, K. J. Åström, B. DeMartini, G. E. Fantner, K. Turner, P. J. Thurner, and P. K. 
Hansma, “Design and Modeling of a High-Speed Scanner for Atomic Force Microscopy,” 
American Control Conference, 2006. 
[8] S. K. Hung, “Design and Control of Novel Atomic Force Microscope Systems ” Ph.D. 
dissertation, National Taiwan University, 2007. 
[9] P. S. Jung and D. R. Yaniv, “Novel stationary-sample atomic force microscope with 
beam-tracking lens,” Electron. Lett., vol. 29, no. 3, pp. 264–266, Feb. 1993. 
[10] J. Kwon et al., “Atomic force microscope with improved scan accuracy, scan speed, and 
optical vision,” Rev. Sci. Instrum., vol. 74, no. 10, pp. 4378–4383, Oct. 2003. 
[11] P. K. Hansma and B. Drake, “A new, optical-lever based atomic force microscope,” J. 
Appl. Phys., vol. 76, no. 2, pp. 796–799, Jul. 1994. 
[12] K. Nakano, “Three-dimensional beam tracking for optical lever detection in atomic force 
microscopy,” Rev. Sci. Instrum., vol. 71, no. 1, pp. 137–141, Jan. 2000. 
 6
造成每個細柱的邊界條件（boundary condition）不一致，想必會造成整體性能較差。不
過畢竟有感測器迴授補償，所以也值得一試。第三種製作方法是用塑膠射出成型，但塑
膠的特性不如金屬單純，必須小心處理。但這種方法若能成功，可以大幅降低製造成本。 
 
利用上述概念所設計出的新式奈米定位器如下圖所示： 
 
新式三軸奈米定位器的 3D 模型圖。黃色為「平行細柱群」機構，綠色為壓電致動器，
藍色為可動部。（省略外殼與感測器部分） 
 
 細柱的截面尺寸最為關鍵，本研究利用有限元素分析法作設計與分析，從而得到適
當的參考尺寸後再製造之，實驗測試之。詳細的結果於後文詳述。 
 
六、結果與討論 
 細柱的剛性若太強則位移行程不足，剛性若太弱則應力太高會造成破壞或是塑性變
形。本研究選取鋁合金系為材料，原則上設定達到額定最大行程時最大應力為材料彈性限
的 80%。據此，所設計出的第一版細柱尺寸如下圖所示。 
 
X 與 Y 方向細柱尺寸圖 
 
Z 軸方向細柱尺寸圖 
 8
七、計畫成果自評 
 
與原計畫相符程度：90%。除了位移感測器外，本計畫之實際執行與原計畫書所載皆
相符。原本預計使用的自製光纖干涉儀，以光波長為基準，但光波長會隨溫度變化。具控
溫功能的穩頻雷射價格高昂非本計畫經費所能負擔，故捨棄該量測方法，改以雷射三角量
測位移感測器。所幸 Keyence 公司最新的 LK-H 系列產品同時可以達到 10nm 解析度並達
50kHz 的取樣頻率符合本研究需求。 
 
預期目標達成度：90%。計畫書中所載之工作項目有： 
;平行細柱群導引機構之有限元素法分析、設計、與製作。完成。 
;致動系統之運動模型推導、設計、與製作。完成。 
;高瞬間電流之壓電驅動電路之設計與製作。完成。 
:光纖干涉儀感測系統之改善。易以雷射三角量測位移感測器。 
;定位器系統整合與實驗平台建立。完成。 
;控制器設計與實作。完成。 
;定位器系統性能測試。完成。 
 
研究成果之學術價值：平行細柱群導致的全並聯式快速三維奈米致動器為首見。本研
究之設計新穎，經測試性能亦符合預期。本研究目前為本人研究生王佑麒之碩士論文題材，
硬體再版精進中，待新版的實驗與分析結果更加完整，將於明年投稿國際研討會與期刊。
此外值得一提的是，本計畫所開發出的「高瞬間電流之壓電驅動電路」應用於本人另一研
究所發表之國際期刊論文已被接受，論文致謝部分特別感謝本計畫的支持。論文將發表於
Journal of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology (2007 IF = 1.987) Vol. 10, pp.1–6, 2010. 題名為
Spiral Scanning Method for Atomic Force Microscopy。 
 
研究成果之應用價值：國家發展上可對精密儀器產業自製化有所貢獻，減低對國外高
價儀器的依賴。以這類型高單價高毛利的產業代替低單價低毛利的代工量產產業，是國家
整體工業技術升級的方向。應用上加快原子力顯微鏡的顯像速度到即時，使得產線上快速
製程缺陷檢測、快速病原體鑑定、奈米解析度表面物理與生物化學過程錄影等關鍵性用途
成為可行。本研究之相關設計已經填寫構想揭露書向本校智慧財產權中心送件，待通過相
關審查程序後即可申請專利。 
 
國科會計畫出席國際研討會報告書 
 
報告人： 洪紹剛 助理教授 
服務單位： 國立交通大學機械工程學系暨研究所 
 
計畫名稱： 高速奈米定位器之設計與研究 
計畫編號： NSC-97-2218-E-009-036 
計畫時程： 2008/09/01 ~ 2009/07/31 
 
出國時間： 2009 7.14 ~ 7.17 
會議名稱： IEEE/ASME International Conference on Advanced Intelligent Mechatronics 
會議地點： 新加坡 
參與工作： 發表論文一篇如附件, 並擔任一 session 之共同主席 (co-chair) 
論文題目： Transforming a CD/DVD Pick-up-head into an Accelerometer 
 
一、會議背景及與會經過 
 
該會議為 IEEE 與 ASME 兩大組織唯一定期合辦的國際學術研討會，也是機電領域 
(mechatronics) 最重要的會議, 每回都吸引數百篇論文投稿。全球之智慧型機電系統相關學術
研究人才，包括各大學院校及研究機構與儀器公司之菁英齊聚一堂，共同分享、討論並激發
當前最新穎的研究題材和未來發展趨勢。大會將論文主題區分為幾項研究領域，分別為： 
1. Actuators and sensors,  
2. Automotive Systems,  
3. Bioengineering,  
4. Data Storage Systems,  
5. Electronic Packaging,  
6. Fault Diagnosis,  
7. Human-Machine Interfaces,  
8. Industry Applications,  
9. Information Technology,  
10. Intelligent Systems,  
11. Machine Vision,  
12. Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems, Micro/Nano Technology,  
13. Modelling and Design,  
14. Motion Vibration and Noise Control,  
15. Opto-Electronic Systems,  
16. Real-Time and Hardware-in-the-Loop Simulation,  
17. Robotics. 
 
 
 
  
Abstract— An accelerometer based on a commercial 
CD/DVD pick-up-head is proposed in this paper. A CD/DVD 
pick-up-head becomes an accelerometer by transforming the 
astigmatic measuring mechanism, the suspending wires, and 
the objective lens as the displacement sensor, the spring, and 
the seismic mass, respectively. The experiments demonstrate 
that this cost-effective accelerometer has excellent linearity, 
ultra high sensitivity of 114 V/g, and an operating frequency of 
20 Hz 
I. INTRODUCTION 
S a kind of inertial motion sensors, accelerometers not 
only measure the vibration in factories but also play an 
important role for everyday lives nowadays. For example, 
accelerometers are equipped in vehicles to detect dangerous 
situations and then trigger proper protective procedures. In 
automotive navigation purposes, accelerometers are 
employed to assist the global positioning system (GPS) 
when GPS signals are shadowed temporarily. Breaking the 
stereotype of pad controllers, accelerometers even make 
great changes on home video games. With a 3-axis 
accelerometer (ADXL330, Analog Devices Inc.), 
Nintendo’s Wii redefines the gaming experience by bringing 
the virtual world into the physical world. 
A typical accelerometer consists of a base frame, a 
spring-mass system, and a displacement sensor to measure 
the relative displacement between the base frame and the 
seismic mass. The acceleration acting on the base is then 
calculated from the measured displacement [1], and 
therefore the displacement sensor affects the performance of 
the accelerometer directly. Published literatures have 
discussed several displacement sensing schemes, including 
variable capacitance [2] and strain, piezoelectric, 
piezoresistive, reluctive, magnetic, and optical methods [3, 
4]. Among these, the optical astigmatism of a CD/DVD 
pick-up-head (PUH) is a very sensitive displacement 
sensing mechanism and had been used in the development of 
accelerometers [4], profilometers [5], and atomic force 
microscopes [6]. In our past research work [7], a CD/DVD 
PUH-based displacement sensor could detect thermal 
 
Manuscript received January 31, 2009. This work was supported in part 
by National Science Council, Taiwan. 
Jih-Wei Chieh is with the Department of Mechanical Engineering, 
National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan.  
Shao-Kang Hung is with the Department of Mechanical Engineering, 
National Chiao Tung University, 1001 Ta Hsueh Rd., Hsinchu 30010, 
Taiwan. (phone: 886-9-3786-5570; fax: 886-3572-0634; e-mail: 
skhung@mail.nctu.edu.tw). 
vibrations of microfabricated cantilevers with a noise level 
of 1.3 pmHz−1/2. The same CD/DVD PUH system will be the 
subject of this study. 
After the introduction, this paper starts from the 
fundamentals of the accelerometer and the CD/DVD PUHs. 
Following the presentation of the instrument design, the 
experimental results are reported. The performance of the 
proposed accelerometer is summarized in the conclusion. 
 
II. PRELIMINARY 
A.  Accelerometer Theory 
The general structure of an accelerometer is shown in 
Figure 1. The inertial force is equal to the elastic force when 
the system is accelerated to equilibrium. We have 
 
x
m
ka = , (1)
 
where a is the acceleration one hopes to measure, k is the 
spring constant, m is the mass of the seismic block, x is the 
relative displacement between the seismic block and the 
base frame. If the resolution of x is given, the coefficient, 
k/m, determines the resolution of a. In order to achieve good 
resolution of a, the coefficient, k/m, should be small. On the 
other hand, the coefficient, k/m, is also the square of the 
undamped natural frequency of the spring-mass system. 
Higher undamped natural frequency implies higher 
bandwidth of the accelerometer. In summary, it is a trade-off 
between the good resolution and the high bandwidth. 
 
displacement sensor
base frame
spring: k
seismic mass: m
displacement: x
acceleration: a
Fig. 1. The schematic structure of a typical accelerometer. 
 
If the spring-mass system has low damping, the 
magnitude of the acceleration can be correctly measured 
only when the acceleration acting on the base frame does not 
Transforming a CD/DVD Pick-up-head into an Accelerometer 
Jih-Wei Chieh and Shao-Kang Hung*, Member, IEEE 
A 
 
 
 
In the CD/DVD application, the focusing condition may 
be unstable due to the wobbling disk. To make the laser 
always focuses on the data pits of the disk, the astigmatic 
sensing mechanism and the VCM play the roles of the sensor 
and the actuator in a feedback control system maintaining a 
constant gap between the disk and the objective lens.  
If a CD/DVD PUH is modified to be a displacement 
sensor, the objective lens should be glued firmly and the 
suspending wires have to be cut off. In this paper, however, 
the objective with not be fixed. The suspending wires and 
the objective lens will transform into the spring-mass system 
as stated in the following. 
III. INSTRUMENT DESIGN 
As stated previously, an accelerometer needs a 
displacement sensor and a spring-mass system, which is 
usually made of an elastic cantilever beam with a block at 
the free end. It is not new to modify a PUH to be a 
displacement sensor. However, a PUH not only can act as a 
displacement sensor but also has a spring-mass system, i.e. 
the four suspending metal wires and the objective lens; 
therefore, it is not necessary to build an extra spring-mass 
system. The schematic illustration of the mechanical design 
of the proposed PUH accelerometer is shown in Fig. 5. A 
small mirror with a high quality reflection surface is 
installed below the PUH, and a base frame separates the 
mirror and the PUH with a fixed gap. The structure loop has 
to be built solidly or the internal vibration induces a false 
signal. The material of the base frame is aluminum alloy and 
the total weight of all the mechanical parts is 40 gram. 
 
 
Fig. 5. The schematic illustration of the mechanical design of the 
proposed PUH accelerometer. 
 
 
Fig. 6. Photograph of the PUH circuit. 
Referring to Fig. 6, we design a circuit for the PUH. The 
circuit contains two functions, including driving the laser 
source and conditioning the output signals of the OEIC. In 
order to achieve constant intensity operation of the laser 
source, a high gain (Kp = 100) P-controller is used. There 
are two diodes combined inside one laser source element: a 
monitoring photodiode and an emitting laser diode. The 
monitoring photodiode senses the intensity of the emitting 
laser diode and then feeds it back to the controller. The 
control signal drives the emitting laser diode via a power 
transistor. A constant intensity operation can be verified by a 
photo power meter. This circuit is equipped with high 
precision but low noise instrumentation amplifiers (AD624, 
Analog Device Inc.) operating in “A+C-B-D” fashion to 
generate the focus error signal. This signal is carefully 
zeroed and appropriately amplified since it is the most 
critical signal which represents the deflection of the 
cantilever. In addition, “A+B-C-D” and “ A+D-B-C” 
signals are also produced for reference. 
IV. EXPERIMENT 
In order to calibrate our DVD PUH-based accelerometer, a 
known excitation should be applied on it and record it’s 
output. A 3-axis nanopositioner (NS4312 driven by NC3000 
controller, Nano Control Co., Ltd., Japan), which the 
accelerometer is fastened on, is employed generate 
persistent excitation. In z-axis, a capacitance displacement 
sensor with 2 nm resolution is equipped; therefore, the 
acceleration of the nanopositioner can be known precisely. 
A digital function generator (SFG-2010, Good Will 
Instrument Co., Ltd.) decides the motion patent of the 
nanopositioner while a lock-in amplifier (SR830, Stanford 
Research Systems, Inc.) reveals the spectrum information of 
the accelerometer. To isolate the outside vibration, the 
accelerometer and the nanopositioner are installed on an 
optical table. A data acquisition card (PCI-6036E, National 
Instruments) controls the focusing VCM of the 
accelerometer and records the output signals. The following 
experiments are executed on the afore-mentioned set-up (see 
Fig. 7). 
 
