 II 
計畫中文摘要 
現有之非入侵式癌症醫療診斷儀器，通常癌症早期小於0.5 cm 之腫瘤不易被偵測 
出，因而延誤病患就診最佳時機。然而，磁振造影需要較長時間之掃描，或胸腔X 光 
檢測病患需暴露於放射線，這些都會使病患感到不適或產生健康上的疑慮。此外，此類 
儀器通常體積龐大且售價昂貴。 
可攜式人體呼吸氣體分析儀可用來對疑似癌症病患作其呼出氣體之分析，例如病患 
呼出之某些揮發性有機化合物即將被美國FDA 認定為肺癌及乳癌之生物標記。藉由適 
當設計微型化氣體分析關鍵元件(包含前端之前濃縮管、高效能微米分離管、高感度奈 
米感測器)，癌症之生物標記可以被偵測出，且其濃度有可能被放大數千至數萬倍，因 
此初期癌症極微量的生物標記也能被偵測到。 
本計劃依研究內容性質分成三個領域: 微型化氣體分析關鍵元件設計製造、效能測 
試及理論研究，關鍵元件間之整合，及系統原型研製與人體呼吸實測。計畫期程規劃為 
三期: 本次報告為第一期精簡報告，含蓋內容為高感度奈米感測器之研製與模型研究與微
型化氣體分析關鍵元件及系統測試平台之建立。 
 
計畫英文摘要 
With the existing non-invasive cancer diagnostic equipments, it is very difficult to detect the 
abnormal tissue or tumor size smaller than 0.5 cm at the early stage of the cancer. This poor 
diagnostics on early cancer detection will delay the best time for patient to be treated. For 
example, diagnostic technology such as magnetic resonance imaging or Chest X Ray can be used 
for cancer diagnostics. However, it either took a relatively long time to scan patients or the 
patients need to be exposed to radiation, both of these attributes may result the 
un-comfortableness of the patients. In addition, the equipments are typically large in size and the 
cost is expensive. 
A portable human breathe gas analyzer can be used to diagnose the patients who may suffer 
from cancer. Some volatile organic compounds from human breath gases are going to be 
approved by USA FDA as bio markers for human diseases, e.g. lung cancer or breast cancer. By 
properly designing the micro gas analyzer, or called MGA, (including front-end 
micropreconcentrator and high surface area adsorbents, high resolution micromachined 
separation columns, and highly sensitive nano detectors), some key bio markers should be able to 
be identified and the concentrations of these bio markers can be amplified up to 103 to 104 times. 
Thus, we should be able to detect the trace concentration of bio markers from patient’s breath 
gases even in the early stage of cancer. 
The advantages to use a MGA is the following: high sensitivity, low power, rapid detection, 
small in size, lower cost compare to conventional equipments, multiple gas detection capability. 
More importantly, our MGA will decrease the pain and un-convenience significantly compare to 
conventional diagnostic methods. The same MGA system can also be used to track the efficacy of 
cancer therapies.  
 2 
faculty NSC proposal, the PI proposed the phase I work of a 3-phase program to develop a 
non-invasive, portable, and rapid multi-gas analyzer (MGA) to replace the existing bulky and 
expensive systems.  The 3-phase MGA system development plan is shown in Figure 1.
 
Figure 1. Proposed 3-phase MGA breath analyzer development plan and MGA conceptual system diagram. 
3. 文獻探討(Literature review) 
The proposed portable multi-gas analyzer can be used alternatively to diagnose human 
cancer bio marker.  By properly designing a Microelectromechanical Systems 
(MEMS)-based MGA, key cancer bio markers from human exhaled air could be detected.  
The targeted bio markers can be separated and the concentrations of these compounds can be 
amplified up to 10
3
 to 10
4
 times.  Thus, we should be able to detect the trace concentration 
of bio markers from patient’s breath gases even in the early stage of cancer.  More 
importantly, the proposed MGA will decrease the pain and un-convenience of patients 
significantly compare to conventional diagnostic methods.  The same MGA system can also 
be used to track the efficacy of cancer therapies.  Other advantages to use a MGA is the 
following: high selectivity and multi-gas sensing capability, low power consumption, rapid 
detection, small in size, low cost, and simple operation.  The technology tradeoffs between 
proposed MGA approach and others are compared at Table 1.   
 
 
Filter
Sampling 
Devices
Separation 
Devices
Detector
Breath 
input
Electronics
ComputerBiomarker Algorithm
MGA Breath Analyzer
Fluidic 
controller
Phase IPhase IIPhase III
Detector Type
eNose
[4]
GC-FID 
[5]
GC-MS 
[3]
Proposed MGA-
Nanodetector
Cost + - -- ++
Size ++ - --- +++
Speed + + + ++
Reliability + ++ + TBD
Selectivity + ++ +++ ++
Repeatability + ++ + TBD
Detection limit >10 ppm >1 ppm ppt ppb
Table 1. Qualitative comparison of alternative technologies for multi-gas analysis [9-11]. 
 4 
and Au are 0.1 and 0.8 nm/s respectively, as shown in Fig. 2(d). To pattern nanowires, the front 
side was coated with a E-beam resist Zep520A (ZEON CSC corporation, Xinbei City, Taiwan) 
with initial spin rate of 500rpm for 5s, followed by a speed ramping from 500rpm to 5000rpm in 
5s, and a final spin rate of 3000rpm for 90s. A 600nm thick resist film was then formed. The 
lithography conditions (100pA in current, 7μsec/dot in dose time, and ZepN50 for developer) 
were optimized to produce nanowires with 300nm width and 1μm period in a 1mm2 area, as 
shown in Fig. 2(e). In Fig. 2(f), a 200nm thick TiO2 film was deposited on top of the oxidized 
wafer and was placed in between Au interdigitated electrodes. In the end, the lift off technique 
was used and the chips were soaked for 3 min with ZDMAC (ZEON CSC corporation, Xinbei 
City, Taiwan) to form the sensing film, as illustrated in Fig. 2(g). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. Schematics of process flow to fabricate the nanowires 
Fig. 3. TiO2 nanowires [200nm(h)×300nm(w)× 
1μ m] deposited on interdigitated electrodes. 
 
Fig. 4. The top view of nanowire detector chip. 
The TiO2 sensing film area is 1mm×1mm. The 
interdigitated electrodes are 15μ m in width and 
the gap in between two electrodes are 10μ m.  
 
Fig. 5. SEM of the side view of TiO2 nanowires 
and interdigitated electrodes 
 6 
to the joule heating, as shown in Fig. 7. Figure 8 shows that the temperature distribution is 
uniform inside the sensing film areas, (two green regions). In this figure, the temperature is 
329.3℃ in average with the standard deviation of 9.3 (FLIR A300 series, and the emissivity of 
the Si area is 0.7). Since the substrate of the chip is silicon so the thermal conduction throughout 
the chip is great due to the large thermal conductivity coefficient of the silicon (149 W/m/K). 
Hence it is reasonable to assume the temperature of the sensing film area is very close to the 
temperature of the silicon area. 
The ethanol was used as the target gas throughout the whole experiments. To show the superior 
performances of nanowire detectors than microwire detectors, different characterizations were 
carried out. In the first test, the transient responses of TiO2 nanowire detector (100nm line-width, 
1μm period, initial resistance of 183.5MΩ) were measured with a fixed gas concentration of 6.5% 
and at a temperature of 284 ℃. When the target gas mixture with 6.5 % ethanol was injected into 
the testing chamber, the resistance ratio (R/R0, the measured resistance to the initial resistance) of 
the nanowire detector changed from 1 to 0.35 at 284 ℃, as shown in Fig. 9. The significant 
resistance change indicated the very sensitive nature of the nanowire sensing film. The sensing 
mechanism is actually to measure the change in resistance while different types of volatile gases 
pass through the sensing layer. It is the redox (reduction and oxidation) reaction happening on the 
metal oxide surface (which is the sensing layer) that leads to the resistance change. In this redox 
reaction, TiO2 will be used as a catalyst. When exposing to air, the sensing layer on the surface of 
TiO2 interacted with oxygen, which attracted the free electrons within the surface of the sensing 
layer to form oxide ions. Oxide ions are adsorbed on the surface and the amount of electrons in 
the sensing layer was decreased. The reduction of the free electron density caused the increase of 
the width of the space charge layer. Thus the increase of the space charge layer increased the 
resistance value of the TiO2 sensing film. When exposing to ethanol, the ethanol oxidation was 
catalyzed by the TiO2 sensing film and acetaldehyde and two protons are generated. The two 
protons then reacted with the surface oxide ions to form water molecules and released two 
electrons back to the sensing layer. Due to the increase in the free electron density in the sensing 
layer, a relatively lower resistance was measured compared to expose the detector to the air.   
However, the sensor response time is not rapid as expected. The large empty volume of the 
testing chamber is suspected to be the main reason for the slow response. It took several seconds 
(60s~80s) for target gas to saturate within the chamber at a planned concentration. Therefore, the 
microfluidic channels will be designed and integrated with our nanowire detector to improve the 
sensor response time.   
Next, the performance of nanowire detector (100nm line-width, 1μm period, 183.5MΩ) is 
compared to the microwire detector (20μm line-width, 20μm period, 24.6MΩ) at a fixed ethanol 
concentration of 6.5%. The resistance change ratio of the nanowire detector is always larger than 
those of the microwire detectors at various operating temperatures (165℃ and 284℃).  It is 
noted that the difference of the resistance change ratio between the nanowire and microwire 
detectors is increased as the operating temperature rose. From the semiconductor metal oxide 
 8 
計畫成果自評 
(1) We have developed E-beam lithography technologies and integration process for nano 
detectors for a MGA system 
(2) We have designed, fabricated, and tested nano detectors 
(3) We built the simple electrical equivalent circuit models for nano detectors 
(4) We set up an IR testing platform for key MGA components 
(5) We presented at the International AVS symposium (please see the trip report) and currently 
are summarizing and drafting results of Phase I for publications 
  
1 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得
報告 
日期： 99  年 11  月 22  日 
 
報告名稱： 
AVS 57
th
 International Symposium & Exhibition(美國真空協會第五十
七屆國際年度學術研討會暨商展, Albuquerque, NM, USA; SUNY 
Nano Tech short visit (美國紐約州立大學奈米科技學院短期訪問), 
Albany, NY, USA; and IEEE 9
th
 Sensors Conferences (國際電機電子工
程師學會第九屆感測器年度學術研討會), Big Island, HI, USA 會議出
國報告書。由於此次行程所需經費較多，不足部分由台灣大學邁頂計
畫補助。 
  
計 畫 編
號 
NSC  99－2218－E－  002－  020  － 
計 畫 名
稱 
人體呼吸氣體分析儀關鍵元件之研製與開發 
出 國 人
員姓名 
田維誠 
服 務 機
構 及 職
稱 
國立台灣大學電機系 
會 議 時
間 
99 年 10 月 18
日至 99 年 11
月 5日 
會 議 地
點 
Albuquerque, NM, USA 
會 議 名
稱 
(中文)美國真空協會第五十七屆國際年度學術研討會暨商展 
(英文) AVS 57th International Symposium & Exhibition 
發 表 論
文題目 
(中文)新型氣體偵測器用於微型氣相層析儀 
(英文) Novel NEMS Gas Detectors for Micro Gas Chromatograph 
3 
 
一 目的 
此報告為參加美國新墨西哥州及夏威夷州舉辦的美國真空協會年度國際研
討會及 IEEE 感測器國際研討會，以及奉 陳副校長泰然與 SUNY Nano Tech 商
討兩校國際合作事宜。出國報告書內容包含參加會議目的、參加會議經過，與會
心得及建議。此行之主要目的除了口頭發表學術成果，更重要之目的在開始建立
台大電資學院於世界微奈米機電系統及微奈米感測器領域之能見度，並推廣本院
至國際學術圈，並能吸引國際學術圈之相關專家學者對本院此領域研究之重視。 
二 參加會議經過 
本人自 2006 年起擔任美國真空協會國際研討會 MEMS/NEM 部常任技術委
員(Technical Program Committe)及執行委員(Executive Committee)。此會為全球微
奈米元件及技術之年度盛會。此次行程先趕赴美國新墨西哥州參加美國真空協會
國際研討會 (Oct. 17-22)，並於 Oct. 22 Characterization for MEMS and NEMS 
Session 中口頭發表學術成果 ”Novel NEMS Detectors for Gas Chromatograph”。並
參與年度技術委員會及下一年度 58th 美國真空協會國際研討會之籌備會議。 
此行另一重要收穫為結識許多可能合作對象，如台大化工許振哲 (Jerry)教
授研究團隊，美國 Argonne National Laboratory Dr. Sumant, Anirudha V. 研究團隊, 
及印度國家實驗室 Center for Cellular & Molecular Biology, Dr. Dhayal, Marshal 研
究團隊。台大化工許教授研究團隊其 microplasma 之技術將可能應用於本人之微
氣體感測器之研究。Dr. Sumant, Anirudha V. 研究團隊則對本人 CMOS MEMS
技術及本校優秀同學及有興趣，希望能有機會安排短期研究或互訪。Dr. Dhayal, 
Marshal 研究團隊則希望能共同於 Lab-on-a-Chip 領域，共同撰寫台印合作計畫。
本人目前正與相關教授人員研議如何進行下一步合作。 
此外並於會中並參與了每天所舉行之研討會，簡述如下，詳細內容請參考帶
回資料或網站 http://www2.avs.org/symposium/AVS57/pages/tech_program.html  
Oct 17: Detecting, Characterizing and Controlling Biofoulings 
此一場次為microfluidics，Lab-on-a-Chip及 surface science and technology之應用。
主要之 sponsors 為美國政府如 DARPA 及 Naval Research Lab。 
Oct 18: MEMS Sensors, Vacuum Gauges, Measurements & Pumps 
此一場次為利用微機電技術應用於 semiconductor processing equipments, such as 
vacuum sensors, gauges and measurements, vacuum pumping, gas analysis, 
contamination control and exhaust abatement. Dr. Kevin Ewsuk from Sandia National 
Laboratory addresses practical issues of vacuum and hermetic sealing of 
5 
 
CMOS architectures for RF-MEMS applications, high-Q resonant dynamics in air, 
nanoscale vibrational mass sensing using nano-fluidic resonators, parametric 
excitation and non-linear dynamics, an integrated micro gas chromatography system 
(my talk), and advanced nanofabrication techniques are the core topics of this session. 
本人於 AVS 57th International Symposium 會後飛至紐約於 State University of 
New York (SUNY) at Albany 作短期訪問，商討兩校合作事宜。陳副校長泰然於
97 第二學年應邀獲頒 SUNY, Albany 傑出成就獎項，其間訪問 CNSE College of 
Nano Sciences and Engineering (CNSE)，經過受邀單位安排參觀其 NanoTech 十二
吋製程研發中心，發現其設備、規模、本國及跨國產學合作（與 IBM、Intel、Tokyo 
Electron Inc, 等公司）、本國及跨國研究合作(如 MIT 及 Centro de Investigación en 
Materials Avanzados at Mexico)研發能量均為世界一流，因此安排職與 Nano Tech 
聯絡並尋求可能合作事宜。 
此次參訪為一 follow-up meeting，之前因 NTU 尚未與 SUNY 簽署互不洩密
條款，因此 SUNY 並無提供相關技術及合作事宜，此次與其有較正式之資訊交
換與其高層會議。本人於 Oct. 27 與其 College VP Prof. Makoto Hirayama 進行會
商，達成下列共識: 
 Prof. Makoto Hirayama 將於明春(~Mar or Apr timeframe)來台進行訪問，並進
步與台大高層進行相關合作討論及意見交換。 
 Prof. Makoto Hirayama 將提供 SUNY Research Menu 以利台大選定相關之研
發團隊進行訪談。 
 如一切進行順利，將由有興趣之 NTU 教授組團參訪 SUNY Nano Tech，參
訪以重點研發設備及各中心及實驗室參觀、加強彼此單位組織、教學研究內
容、及可能合作之範圍及議題作初步之瞭解及溝通。此次參訪以 NTU 各學
院為主導，參與人員可跨各學院，人數及層級不限。參訪時程需再討論。 
 
最後之行程為回程停留夏威夷州參與 IEEE 感測器國際研討會(Nov. 1-4)。此
會為全球微奈米感測器技術之年度盛會。也成功的將本人於過往十數年於美國之
技術人脈與學業界社交網路，以台大電資學院，電子研究所及電機系之新身份重
新連結，並與今年大會主席 Prof. Gary Feddler from Carnegie Melon University 及
明年大會主席 Prof. Elfed Lewis from University of Luimnigh 口頭獲邀擔任明年之
技術委員，實為此行之最大收穫。 
此外並於會中並參與了每天所舉行之研討會，詳細內容請參考帶回資料或網
站 http://www.ieee-sensors2010.org/program.html，簡述如下: 
7 
 
National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan.  He provided a vision and overview of 
biomedical electronics. He also updated the audience on the great achievements from 
Taiwan’s universities on the NSOC programs.   
Chemiresistive Sensors 
Many famous world leading groups presented in this session, including the E-nose 
group from JPL, Dr. S. Semancik’s group from NIST, etc.  JPL updated the recent 
experimental data they collected from the space mission and claimed their E-nose 
system is very reliably.  Dr. Semancik’s group is the pioneer on the CMOS MEMS 
gas sensor technologies and he presented various results to demonstrate the reliability, 
reproducibility, and long term drift data to the audience.   
Resonant Chemical Sensors 
Again, many worl leading group presented in this session.  Prof. B.T. Khuri-Yakub 
from Stanford University presented his cMUTs works by using the devices on the 
detection of DMMP.  Most other groups are trying to use their existed micro 
resonators and tried to apply to the gas sensing applications.  One of my research 
directions is in the micro gas sensing areas and I am glad to find a belonging group in 
this IEEE Sensors conference. 
Nov 4: 
There are many physical micro sensors in today’s sessions, such as tactile sensors, 
pressure sensors, gyroscopes, accelerometers, etc.  I have to travel back to the airport 
so I did not have a chance to attend these sessions but reading the proceedings.   
三 與會心得 
總的來說，此行的正面效益有下面幾點： 
 於 Oct. 22 Characterization for MEMS and NEMS Session 中口頭發表學術成
果 ”Novel NEMS Detectors for Gas Chromatograph”。並代表台大參與年度技
術委員會及下一年度 58th 美國真空協會國際研討會之籌備會議。 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/03/29
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 人體呼吸氣體分析儀關鍵元件之研製與開發
計畫主持人: 田維誠
計畫編號: 99-2218-E-002-020- 學門領域: 醫用電子
無研發成果推廣資料
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
1.Chao-Hao Chen, 
Chang-Jung 
Hsieh, Hsu-Kuei 
Lin, Ta-Shun Lee, 
Pei-Hung Chen, 
Chao-Hung Chou, 
Chia-Jung Lu, and 
Wei-Cheng 
Tian*, ＇ Novel 
NEMS Gas 
Detectors for 
Micro Gas 
Chromatograph,＇
AVS 57th 
International 
Symposium &amp；
Exhibition, 
Albuquerque, NM, 
USA, Oct. 2010 
 
專書 0 0 0% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 0%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 0% 件  
件數 0 0 0% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 0% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 0%  
博士生 0 0 0%  
博士後研究員 0 0 0%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 0% 
人次 
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
Serves on the program committee and exective member of International AVS 
symposium-MEMS/ BioMEMS topic group (2006-present).   
Serves as the technical program committe of IEEE Sensors, 2011 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
教材 0  
 
