 2
be obtained. The novelty of the proposed framework is to bypass the most difficult part of the 
problem: drawing samples of uncertain variables conditioning on the monitoring data. This 
part can be extremely difficult and even prohibited especially when the dimension of the 
uncertain variables is high. This report proposes a short-cut simulation approach: instead of 
drawing samples of possibly high dimensional uncertain variables conditioning on the 
monitoring data, it is shown that the problem can be solved by drawing samples of the 
monitoring data conditioning on the future failure event. The latter action turns out to be 
relatively straightforward. Moreover, as long as the probability distribution of the 
uncertainties and the mathematical model of the target system are given, the entire functional 
relationship between the updated future failure probability and the current monitoring data 
can be obtained prior to the monitoring process. 
Key words: slope reliability, Bayesian analysis, reliability update, monitoring 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Rainstorms are the main causes of many landslides. During rainstorms, suction in 
unsaturated soils may be significantly reduced by infiltrating rainwater, so the factor of safety 
(FS) of the slope can drastically decline. Since rainstorms are usually the main triggering 
factor of landslides, it is natural to predict landslide occurring times and locations based on 
the monitoring data for a slope. Unfortunately, such prediction is typically quite difficult due 
 4
( ) 0e Z  ; e.g.: an ultrasonic examination on a structural component reveals that the size of a 
crack is less than some threshold. (b) Type II: monitoring data indicates that some function 
( ) 0e Z  ; e.g.: the ultrasonic examination reveals that the crack size is equal to some positive 
real number. (c) Combination of the two types. Given an additional event B, the updated 
probability of a failure event F is therefore 
    |
P F B
P F B
P B
  (1) 
where both the numerator and denominator of (1) can be determined with FORM or SORM if 
the additional event is of Type I. In the case that monitoring event is of Type II or 
combination of the two types, Jiao and Moan (1990) derived the formula of updating 
reliability. 
With minimal amount of computation, the FORM/SORM approach works reasonably 
well for problems with few uncertainties. However, the limitation of the approach is as 
follows. (a) there are scenarios that the monitoring data cannot be classified as “additional 
events,” e.g.: acceleration data from a structure. Unfortunately, it is not clear how to expand 
the approach to accommodate non-event monitoring data; (b) when there are lots of 
uncertainties, i.e.: Z dimension is high, or when there are multiple design points, FORM and 
SORM may fail miserably; (c) as well known, the estimate made by FORM/SORM is exact if 
the limit state is linear in the standard Gaussian space. However, if the limit state is nonlinear, 
it is non-trivial to verify the accuracy of the estimate made by FORM/SORM; (d) the 
 6
     | , | , | ,real time real timeP F D M F Z M p Z D M dZ    (3) 
where  | ,real timeF Z M  is the indicator function of real-time failure given the uncertain 
parameters Z;  | ,p Z D M  is the posterior probability density function (PDF) of Z. 
This approach was taken by Tang (1981) to update future reliability for several 
geotechnical applications. Papadimitriou et al. (2001) implement (2) to update future 
reliability by observing the posterior PDF asymptotically close to a Gaussian PDF. Estes and 
Frangopol (2003) take visual inspection results of a bridge to first update the PDF of the 
structural parameters then propagate the uncertainties to obtain the updated reliability. 
The most challenging task of updating reliability based on (2) or (3) is to evaluate the 
integrals, especially in high dimensions. When the problem is identifiable and the amount of 
data is large, the evaluation of the integral can be done through the asymptotic expansion 
discussed in Papadimitriou et al. (2001). However, in the case that data amount is insufficient 
or that the problem is unidentifiable, the asymptotic approach is questionable. 
In the general case, evaluation of the integrals can be achieved through stochastic 
simulations. Taking the integral in (2) as an example, if samples  ( ) : 1,...,i i N   can be 
drawn from the posterior PDF  | ,p D M , according to the Law of Large Number: 
   ( )
1
1| , | ,
N
i
future future
i
P F D M P F M
N


   (4) 
Analytically, this approach is superior to the other approaches in the following sense: (a) the 
estimator in (4) is an unbiased estimator of the updated failure probability. For other 
 8
where CfutureF  is the future non-failure event; the two normalizing constants  | ,futurep D F M  
and  | Cfuturep D F  can be directly estimated with TMCMC proposed by Ching and Chen 
(2007). Hence the future reliability can be updated without further repetitive reliability 
analyses. This approach is quite general but still requires drawing samples from  | ,p D M . 
Therefore, the first challenge was not resolved with this approach. 
 In this report, we show that the aforementioned two challenges can be both bypassed. In 
particular, a conjugate approach based on “short-cut simulation” will be developed so that the 
updating of future reliability no longer requires drawing samples from  | ,p D M  but 
drawing samples from  | ,futurep D F M ; also, the repetitive reliability analyses are not 
necessary. Therefore, the new approach is applicable even when  is extremely high 
dimensional. It will be shown that drawing samples from  | ,futurep D F M  is always simple. 
Under the condition that D is low dimensional or D can be condensed into low dimensional 
data, future reliability can be conveniently updated. 
 
2. PROBLEM DEFINITION 
 The goal of regular reliability analyses is to estimate future failure probability given the 
probability distribution of the uncertainties in the target system and the mathematical model 
M  of the system, i.e. to compute  |futureP F M . When current monitoring data D  is 
available, it is essential to incorporate it to reduce the uncertainties and to update future 
 10
 Please note that under the assumption that X1 and X2 are independent, D and Ffuture are 
independent conditioning on . That is, if the system parameters  are known, gaining the 
information of D will not help to reduce uncertainties in Ffuture, and converse is also true. 
Equivalently, 
       | , , | , | , , | ,Cfuture futurep D F M p D M p D F M p D M      (6) 
This property is the key to the derivation of the short-cut simulation approach. 
 
3. SHORT-CUT SIMULATION 
 The derivations of the short-cut simulation approach start from (5), which is herein 
rewritten for convenience of discussion: 
            
| , |
| ,
| , | | , 1 |
future future
future C
future future future future
p D F M P F M
P F D M
p D F M P F M p D F M P F M
    
 (7) 
It is then clear that the estimation of the updated future reliability  | ,futureP F D M  can be 
obtained through the estimation of  |futureP F M ,  | ,futurep D F M , and  | ,Cfuturep D F M . 
Estimating  |futureP F M  is the same as an ordinary reliability problem. However, 
estimating  | ,futurep D F M  and  | ,Cfuturep D F M , i.e. the PDF of the current monitoring 
data D conditioning on future failure and non-failure events, seems highly non-trivial. 
 Although estimating  | ,futurep D F M  and  | ,Cfuturep D F M  is non-trivial, drawing 
samples from those two PDFs is surprisingly simple. Let us start from the following 
equations: 
 12
The samples  : 1,...,iR i N  therefore represent the samples of the limit state function due 
to future uncertain excitation X2. Throughout the report,  : 1,...,iX i N  will be denoted by 
1:NX  for notational convenience, and similar for other variables. According to the Law of 
Large Number, we have 
   
1
1| 1
N
future i
i
P F M I R
N 
   (10) 
where  I   is the indicator function: it is equal to 1 if the inside statement is true; otherwise, 
it is 0. 
Drawing samples from  | ,futurep F M  and  | ,Cfuturep F M  with MCS 
During MCS, samples distributed as  | ,futurep F M  and  | ,Cfuturep F M  can be 
easily obtained: assuming that among the N  samples, there are FN  sample pairs 
  2, , : 1,...,i i FX i N   satisfying future failure 1iR  , then the   parts of the sample pairs 
 : 1,...,i Fi N   are distributed as  | ,futurep F M . Also, the rest of the CF FN N N   
sample pairs do not satisfy future failure, so the   parts of the sample pairs 
 : 1,...,C Ci Fi N   are distributed as  | ,Cfuturep F M . 
Drawing samples from  | ,futurep D F M  and  | ,Cfuturep D F M  with MCS 
Given the samples  : 1,...,i Fi N   that are distributed as  | ,futurep F M , 
 | ,futurep D F M  is approximately the mixture of the FN  equally weighted PDFs 
  | , : 1,...,i Fp D M i N  . This fact suggests that the following procedure can be employed 
to draw samples from  | ,futurep D F M : randomly draw a  sample, denoted by * , from 
 14
There is an interesting tradeoff for the short-cut approach compared to the traditional 
approaches based on (2) and (3): the traditional approaches seem more robust against D 
dimension but not robust for  dimension; the short-cut approach is on the contrary: it is 
robust against  dimension but not robust against D dimension. Therefore, the 
newly-proposed short-cut approach can serve as a complementary method to the traditional 
methods. In the case that  is low dimensional but D is high dimensional (e.g.: a building 
with few uncertain structural parameters + acceleration data), the traditional approaches may 
be chosen, but if D is low dimensional but  is high dimensional (e.g.: a dam with uncertain 
soil properties modeled by a random field + static deformation data), the short-cut approach 
is undoubtedly better. 
 In the case that both D and  are high dimensional (e.g.: a building with many uncertain 
structural parameters + acceleration data), both traditional and short-cut approaches may face 
the curse of dimensionality. It is argued that the short-cut approach is still more suitable to 
handle the dimension curse than the traditional approaches if reduction of dimension is in 
order: the impact of reducing the D dimension is simply losing information contained in D, 
but reducing the  dimension may lead to biased estimate of updated reliability. Reduction in 
D dimension may be sometimes acceptable (a well accepted example is to condense the high 
dimensional acceleration data into modal parameters), while the reduction in  dimension 
seems less controllable. 
 16
main support region of  | ,futurep D F M . However, in order to estimate  | ,futurep D F M  
accurately for the small  | ,futurep D F M  region, failure samples in the tail of 
 | ,futurep D F M  are needed. 
The inefficiency of MCS can be overcome by drawing more samples. In the case where 
the computation of 2( , )R X   and 1( , )D X   is fast, e.g.: problems with simple analytical 
models, MCS may still be a reasonable choice of estimating  | ,futureP F D M  because 
millions of evaluations of 2( , )R X   and 1( , )D X   may only take minutes. However, in the 
case where the computation of 2( , )R X   and 1( , )D X   is slow, e.g.: problems with 
finite-element models, MCS may be infeasible. 
 
4. SHORT-CUT SIMULATION VIA SUBSET SIMULATION 
 According to the previous discussion, the main drawback of MCS in estimating 
 | ,futureP F D M  stems from the fact that it is inefficient in propagating  2 ,R X   and 
 1,D X   samples into the tail regions of  |p r M  and  | ,futurep D F M . In this section, 
SubSim is introduced and employed to incorporate with short-cut simulation to propagate the 
samples into the tail in a more efficient manner. The propagation of D samples using SubSim 
is discussed only for one-dimensional D. The SubSim procedure of propagating R  and 
one-dimensional D  samples is identical. Therefore, we denote G  be the uncertain quantity 
of interest to represent either R  or D  to ease general discussions. 
 18
therefore,  2 1|P G b G b   and  2 1|P G b G b   are roughly 2N N  and 21 N N , 
respectively. These 2N  samples, denoted by 2
1,2
1:NG , are distributed as  1 2|p g b G b  , 
while the other 2N N  samples greater than 2b  are distributed as  2|p g G b . Then 
these 2N N  samples are used to generate 2N  more samples so that there are, again, N  
samples distributed as  2|p g G b . The same procedure is repeated m stages until enough 
samples have propagated to the desirable tail region of  p g . Later in the examples, the 
sample number N  in the above descriptions will be called the stage sample number since 
the sample number remains constant and is equal to N  for all stages. 
For simplicity of discussion, the following notations will be used: 
(a) 1 1,p P    denote    1 1| ,p g G b P G b     
(b) ,m mp P    denote    | ,m mp g G b P G b     
(c) , 1 , 1,j j j jp P     denote    1 1| ,j j j jp g b G b P b G b        for 1,..., 1j m   
(d) 1|j jP   denotes  1 |j jP G b G b   for 1,..., 1j m   
Suppose the procedure is repeated for m  stages, the following samples will be 
available: 
1
1
1:NG  distributed as 
1p , 
1
, 1
1: j
j j
NG 
  distributed as , 1j jp   ( 1,..., 1j m  ), and 1:mNG  
distributed as mp . Also, the following probability estimates are available: 1 1P N N , 
1|
1
j j
jP N N

  (for 1,..., 1j m  ). One can see that the tail probability  P G b  can be 
estimated as 
 20
Under this choice, (11) and (14) become 
   
1
10 m N m
i
i
P G b I G b
N


     (15) 
and 
  11 , 1
1
9 9ˆ ˆ ˆ10 10
10 10
m
j j j m m
j
p g p p p
   

      (16) 
Since the SubSim samples propagate to the tail in an efficient way, the  P G b  estimator 
is more stable, and the estimated  p g  is more accurate in the tail region. The performance 
of SubSim is also robust against the degree of freedom of the system, system complexity, and 
the uncertainty dimension. 
4.2 Estimation of  |futureP F M  and  | ,Cfuturep D F M  with SubSim 
In the perspective of SubSim,  |futureP F M  can be effectively estimated with (15) by 
taking G  to be  2 ,R X   and b  to be 1. Recall that the following samples are available 
during the SubSim: 
1
1
1:NR  distributed as  1| ,p r R b M , 1, 11: jj jNR   distributed as 
 1| ,j jp r b R b M   ( 1,..., 1j m  ), and 1:mNR  distributed as  | ,mp r b R M . Let us 
denote the corresponding   samples by 
1
1
1:N , 1, 11: jj jN  , and 1:mN . For each of these   
samples, an independent sample of 1X  is drawn to obtain a D  sample. The following 
samples will be available at the end of SubSim: 
(a) 
1
1
1:ND  distributed as  1 1| ,Dp p D R b M   
(b) 
1
, 1
1: j
j j
ND 
  distributed as  , 1 1| ,j jD j jp p D b R b M     (for 1,..., 1j m  ) 
(c) 1:
m
ND  distributed as  | ,mD mp p D R b M   
 22
 | ,futureP F M D  estimate can be obtained. 
Similar to MCS, the short-cut simulation wth SubSim is robust against the number of 
degrees of freedom of the system, system complexity, and the  dimension although the D 
dimension is still a concern. Moreover, the functional relationship between the updated 
failure probability and monitoring data D can be obtained prior to the monitoring process, so 
reliability update can be achieved right after the monitoring data is obtained. 
5. APPLICATION TO SLOPE RELIABILITY 
 As a demonstration, the proposed method is implemented to an infinite slope where 
rainfall infiltration in the soil is considered for the stability analysis. The monitoring value is 
taken to be the time of the occurrence of ponding during a current uniform rainfall, and the 
failure is defined as the sliding of the slope in a future uniform rainfall. 
In this hypothetical example, let us consider the infinite slope subject to heavy rainfall in 
Figure 2, where 020   is the slope angle,   is the unit weight of the cohesiveless soil, 
  is the effective friction angle of the sandy soil, i  is the intensity of a future uniform 
heavy rainfall, and T  is the rainfall duration. It is assumed that the slope is unsaturated 
before the future heavy rainfall. The Green-Ampt model (Green and Ampt 1911) modified by 
Pradel and Raads (Pradel and Raads 1993) is taken to simulate the relationship between the 
depth of the wetting front, denoted by wz , and the rainfall intensity, duration, and hydraulic 
properties of the soil. Figure 2 summarizes the procedure of determining wz  given the heavy 
 24
intensity i , and the monitoring data D  is the occurrence time of ponding during the small 
uniform rainfall: 
   1
if  > 
,
if   
s f i
s
s
s
K
i K
i i K
D X
i K
 

   
 (19)  
where the uncertain excitation during the monitoring process 1X  is simply the intensity i  
of the small rainfall. The uncertain intensity i  is taken to be lognormal with mean equal to 
0.01m/hr and coefficient of variation equal to 10%. 
 For this case study, we desirable to update the future failure probability with the current 
monitoring data D  so that the uncertainties can be reduced. SubSim is employed to estimate 
 | ,futureP F M D . During SubSim,  MFDp future ,|  and  MFDp Cfuture ,|  are estimated, 
shown in Figure 3, and the estimate for  | ,futureP F M D  is obtained. Figure 4 shows the 
analysis result of the proposed approach with a single SubSim run with stage sample number 
N  = 2000, which shows that the updated failure probability increases with the increase of 
the observed ponding time. Figure 5 shows the average and 95% confidence interval of the 
results from independent 200 SubSim runs. The result shows that the updated future failure 
probability is small when the current observed ponding time is short, and vice versa. 
 
6. DISCUSSIONS AND CONCLUSION 
 A new method of updating future reliability of a slope is proposed in this report. Slopes 
 26
199-214. 
Ching, J. and Chen, Y.C. (2007). Transitional Markov chain Monte Carlo method for Bayesian model 
updating, model class selection, and model averaging, ASCE Journal of Engineering Mechanics, 
133(7), 816-832. 
Cheung, S.H. and Beck, J.L. (2007). New stochastic simulation method for updating robust reliability 
of dynamical systems. Proceedings of the 18th Engineering Mechanics Division Conference 
(EMD 2007), Blacksburg, VA. 
Ciampoli, M. and Ellingwood, B.R. (2002). Probabilistic methods for assessing current and future 
performance of concrete structures in nuclear power plants. Materials and Structures, 35, 3-14. 
Estes, A.C. and Frangopol, D.M. (2003). Updating bridge reliability based on bridge management 
systems visual inspection results. ASCE Journal of Bridge Engineering, 8(6), 374-382. 
Hong, H.P. (1997). Reliability analysis with nondestructive inspection. Structural Safety, 19(4), 
383-395. 
Jiao, G. and Moan, T. (1990). Methods of reliability model updating through additional events. 
Structural Safety, 9, 139-153. 
Metropolis, N., Rosenbluth, A.E., Rosenbluth, M.N., Teller, A.H., and Teller, E. (1953). Equation of 
state calculations by fast computing machines. Journal of Chemical Physics, 21, 1087-1092.  
Moan, T. and Song, R. (2000). Implications of inspection on system fatigue reliability of offshore 
structures. Journal of Offshore Mechanics and Arctic Engineering, 122, 173-180. 
 28
 
Figure 2. An illustration of the infinite slope. 

Rain 
Zw 
1 
wtZW 
n
 coscosWn   
m
 cossinWm   
0au
awuu  
 30
 
Figure 4. Analysis results for Example 1. The plot is the result from a single SubSim run. 
國科會 國內專家學者出席國際會議 報告 
 
 
出國人員: 卿建業, 國立台灣大學土木工程系 
研討會名稱: ICOSSAR 2009 
研討會地點: Osaka, Japan 
研討會日期: 2009/9/13 – 9/17 
網站: http://www.furuta‐lab.jp/icossar2009/ 
 
ICOSSAR 2009 是 IASSAR四年一度的大會, 此次的主題包括: 
safety and performance requirements of critical engineering systems subjected to 
natural and man‐made hazards, including life cycle analysis processes and costs. 
Practical application of all methods will be stressed, including risk analysis and safety 
assessment of major technological systems. 
 
本人於此次研討會中投稿 6篇論文: 
Ching, J. (2009), A new reliability‐based design approach based on limit‐state factor, 
ICOSSAR 2009. 
Ching,  J. and Hsu, W.C.  (2009), Approximate optimization of general  systems with 
high dimensional uncertainties and multiple reliability constraints, ICOSSAR 2009. 
Ching, J., Lin, H.D. and Yen, M.T. (2009), Calibrating resistance factors of single bored 
piles based on incomplete test results, ICOSSAR 2009. 
Ching,  J.,  Chen,  Y.C.  and  Phoon,  K.K.  (2009),  Updating  uncertainties  in  shear 
strengths with multivariate test data, ICOSSAR 2009. 
Hsu, W.C. and Ching, J. (2009), Evaluating small failure probabilities of multiple limit 
states by parallel subset simulation, ICOSSAR 2009. 
Ching,  J.,  Phoon,  K.K.  and  Hu,  Y.G.  (2009),  Efficient  evaluation  of  slope  reliability 
using importance sampling, ICOSSAR 2009. 
 
在此感謝國科會的補助. 
 
 
出國人員: 胡毓港, 葉建儀, 國立台灣大學土木工程系 
研討會名稱: 22nd KKCNN 
研討會地點: Chiangmai, Thailand 
研討會日期: 2009/10/31 – 11/2 
網站: http://www.civil.eng.chula.ac.th/kkcnn/ 
 
KKCNN是台大與其他四所亞洲頂尖大學的年度研討會, 本人於此次研討會中投
稿 2篇論文: 
J. Ching, K.K. Phoon and Y.G. Hu. Observations on limit equilibrium based slope 
reliability problems with inclined weak seams. 22nd KKCNN. 
J.Y. Yeh, J.R. Chen and J. Ching. Uncertainties associated with estimation of index and 
strength parameters for cohesionless soils. 22nd KKCNN. 
 
胡毓港, 葉建儀是卿建業教授的研究生, 藉由這次出國參加研討會經歷, 相信對
這兩位學生的表達能力與國際觀都有助益. 在此感謝國科會的補助. 
 
96年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：卿建業 計畫編號：96-2628-E-002-254-MY3 
計畫名稱：根據監測資料更新邊坡可靠度於暴雨後之變化 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 3 3 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 6 6 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
