 2
中文摘要 
本研究主要是以人工植體金屬材料-鈦
金屬做為研究對象，在先前研究結果，發現
純鈦金屬表面(TM)若經過酸蝕之後(TA)，在
表面成分分析中 TA 較 TM 有較高比例的氧
化表層；另外 TA 表面形成微米大小的蜂窩
狀粗糙孔洞，平均粗糙度可達 2.28 μm，比一
般酸蝕表面要大。而本研究將進一步以實驗
材料之萃取液與骨母細胞進行細胞培養，以
了解實驗材料是否具有生物毒性；並以實驗
材料與新生鼠頭蓋骨進行組織培養，比較實
驗材料對骨缺陷再生的骨引導能力。在細胞
貼附與生長方面，結果顯示 TA 試片不具有
細胞毒性且有良好的生物相容性，且由 SEM
觀察可發現細胞在 TA 的貼附形態較 TM 平
坦且有較多的細小薄偽足(filopodia)攀附，此
特性將可增進植體表面和骨組織之間的機械
咬合強度。而在器官培養方面；將 TM、TA
試片與新生鼠頭蓋骨共培養，結果由倒立式
光學顯微鏡發現，TA 與 TM 試片皆具有骨引
導作用，骨母細胞從缺陷骨組織孔洞邊緣往
材料邊緣貼附；另外由 SEM 觀察與定量分
析，發現器官培養五週後，TA 的底部、側面、
上表面的新生類骨細胞較 TM 多且較厚，TA
鈣化程度也較 TM 明顯，因此 TA 材料為一
理想人工植體。 
關鍵詞：鈦金屬、牙科植體、表面改質、細
胞、器官培養 
Abstract 
The object of this study is to investigate 
the cytotoxicity and osteoconductivity of cp-Ti 
submitted to different treatments. Alterations in 
the commercially pure titanium (cp-Ti) surface 
may be undertaken to improve its biological 
properties. The cp-Ti surfaces were prepared so 
that the machined surfaces (TM) and machined, 
sandblasted and acid etching surfaces (TA) 
were compared using cell and organ culture 
evaluations in vitro. In previous surface 
properties analyses, results showed that the 
surface layer is more oxidized in TA than in 
TM and TA surface has mm-sized beehive-like 
coarse holes, the roughness (2.28 μm) of which 
can be bigger than that commonly seen on the 
acid etching surface. In this study, the 
biocompatibility was evaluated by cell and 
organ culture in vitro. The results of cell culture 
indicated that extracts of both materials were 
not cytotoxic to bone cells. The morphology of 
cells on the TA surface was superior to that on 
the TM surface. The results of organ culture 
demonstrated that TA promoted cell migration 
and repaired damaged bones more effectively. 
The formation of bone-like nodules on TA disk 
exceeded that on TM disk. These results 
suggested that TA (machined, sandblasted, 
laser-irradiated and dual-acid etched cp-Ti 
surface) had good osteoconductivity and was a 
potential material for dental implantation. 
Keywords: Titanium; Dental implant; 
Surface treatment; Cell culture; 
Organ culture. 
1. Introduction 
The binding between bones and the 
surfaces of orthopedic and dental implants that 
must be structurally and functionally 
compatible (osseointegration), is crucial to the 
long-term success of the implants. Titanium is 
normally used in dental applications, owing to 
its demonstrated ability to allow close 
bone-implant apposition, and to extensive 
documentation in the field of long-term clinical 
oral implantology. Surface treatments, such as 
surface machining, sandblasting, acid etching, 
electro-polishing, anodic oxidation, 
plasma-spraying and biocompatible or 
biodegradable coating can further be conducted 
to improve the quality and quantity of the 
 4
2.2.1 Cytotoxicity of extracts derived from test 
samples 
The cytotoxicity was evaluated by in vitro 
methods, using the liquid extracts. The 
extraction vehicle was the culture medium 
DMEM. Extraction was conducted under sterile 
conditions, using 50-ml tubes (Falcon) in an 
incubator at 37 ºC for 120 h ; the ratio of the 
sample surface and the volume of the extraction 
vehicle was 1 cm2/ml. The extraction vehicle 
without material was the blank group. 
Individual wells of 96-well plates were seeded 
with L929 cells at a starting density of 5×103 
cells/well. After it had been incubated for 24 h, 
the culture medium was discarded and replaced 
with extraction vehicle medium supplemented 
with 10% FBS. The viability of L929 cells in 
each well was measured by MTT assay after 
they had been cultured for 24 and 48 hr. In the 
test, the medium was replaced with 10 μl/well 
of MTT solution (5 mg/ml) and 100 μl/well of 
culture medium. After 4 hours of incubation at 
37ºC the solution was removed, 100 μl/well of 
acid propan-2-ol (0.04 M HCl in propan-2-ol) 
was added and after a few minutes shaking, the 
plates were also read on a multi-well scanning 
spectrophotometer (MRX Microplate Reader, 
Dynatech Laboratories Inc., Chantilly, USA) at 
a wavelength of 570 nm and reference 
wavelength of 650 nm.  
2.2.2 Attachment and proliferation of bone cells 
on the surface of test samples 
Each sterilized test sample, placed 
individually in the 96-well plate, was 
inoculated with 5×103 of L929, MG63 and 
osteoblastic cells. Three additional wells served 
as controls. The materials were removed and 
digested by papain for cell number after 
cultured for 24 and 48 h. Cell numbers were 
determined by a fluorescence 
spectrophotometer [Hitachi, F2500] using the 
Hoechst #33258 DNA assay and a standard 
curve. After they had been incubated for 24 h, 
samples were washed twice with PBS. The 
samples were fixed with 2% glutaraldehyde for 
30 min at room temperature and dehydrated 
using a graded series of ethanol solutions. The 
specimens were then dried at the critical point, 
sputter-coated with gold and observed by the 
SEM. The morphological changes of the cells 
attached to the test samples were evaluated. 
2.3 In vitro neonatal calvarial organ culture 
2.3.1 Organ culture 
Calvarias were harvested from neonatal 
Sprague-Dawley rats that were three days old. 
The rats were sacrificed by administering an 
overdose of Pentothal (0.5-1.0 ml); the 
calvarias were then dissected, and the 
endocranial and extracranial periostea were 
completely removed to minimize fibroblastic 
impurity. The calvarias were immediately 
placed in the PBS. A 6 mm by 6 mm square 
defect was then created in the central area of 
each parietal bone using a sterilized steel stick. 
The TM and TA disks were then placed on the 
defect, such that the surface was in contact with 
it, to form as an organ culture unit. The organ 
culture unit was transferred to Fitton-Jackson’s 
modification of Bigger’s culture medium 
supplemented with 10% FBS, 20 µl/ml 200 
mM glutamine, 10 µl/ml 
penicillin/streptomycin (500 U/ml), 25 µl/ml 
HEPES 1 M solution, 10 µl/ml 
β-glycerol-2-phosphate 1 M solution, and 50 
µg/ml L-ascorbic acid. The medium was 
regularly replaced every three days, and the 
organ culture units were maintained under such 
conditions for five weeks.  
 6
week, the percentage of regenerated bone 
tissues was about twice higher in TA group 
(43.75% vs. 22.51% in TM group). The 
regenerated bone tissues increased with culture 
time. This is evident from the photographs (Fig. 
3(c)(d)), as well as the quantitative data (Table 
2) at three and five weeks. For each period, the 
tissue regeneration rate observed in TA group 
was superior to that in TM group. After five 
weeks, both materials exhibited formation of 
the mineralized bone matrix as shown in Figure 
4 by von Kossa’s stain. As is also evident, the 
density of mineral nodule formation on TA (Fig. 
4(b)) exceeded that on TM (Fig. 4(a)). 
3.2.2 SEM examination  
SEM pictures in Figure 5 demonstrated 
that osteoblasts grew toward, approached and 
tended to adhere to the bottom of the TM and 
TA disks, indicating good osteoconduction in 
both materials. The osteoblasts extended closer 
to the bottom of the TA disk (Fig. 5(b)) than to 
the bottom of the TM disk (Fig. 5(a)). The 
osteoblasts were also observed on the flank and 
top of the TM and TA disks. However, the 
regenerated osteoblastic cell layers formed on 
the flank of the TM disk were thinner and 
sparser than those on the flank of the TA disk. 
Finally, fewer osteoblasts were present on the 
top of the TM disk (Fig. 5(c)) than on the top of 
the TA disk (Fig. 5(d)). Evenly distributed 
osteoblasts almost completely covered the top 
of the TA disk. These results pointed out the 
better osteoconduction of TA. 
4. Discussion and conclusion 
The clinical success of dental implants is 
strongly related to the surface characteristics of 
the implant materials that affect cell attachment 
and subsequent proliferation, differentiation 
and mineralization. In this study, we compared 
two implants with different surface, control 
(surface machining, TM) and the modified 
implant with surface machining followed by 
sandblasting, laser irradiation and dual acid 
etching (TA). The modified implant TA was 
shown to have different characteristics of the 
surface, including its composition, morphology, 
roughness and topography.   
There is a tendency for enhanced 
attachment and growth on TA surface, but not 
statistically significant. The cell morphology, 
however, is different. All three types of cells on 
the TA surface spread and extended more easily 
and earlier than on the TM surface. The 
spreading of cells on a particular support is 
prerequisite for their migration and subsequent 
osteogenesis. The filopodial formation on TA 
surface indicated the activation of Cdc42, one 
of the small Rho GTPases that play important 
roles in cell sensing, signaling and migration 
[5]. The experiments confirmed that the TA 
surface was nontoxic and favored cell 
spreading and migration. These characters 
could enhance mechanical interlocking 
between the implant surface and the osseous 
tissues.  
The osteoconductive potential of TA on 
the damaged bones was confirmed in the 
neonatal rat calvarial organ culture. The results 
unambiguously showed that the TA disks were 
more effective than the TM disks in promoting 
cell migration and the regeneration of bone 
tissues. SEM revealed that during organ culture 
the regenerated osteoblasts migrated to TA and 
covered the surface more completely than those 
observed in TM, after five weeks of culturing. 
Several researchers have reported that cell 
motility or osteogenesis depended strongly on 
the surface topography of the material [6-7]. 
 8
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
 
(d) 
 
(e) 
 
(f) 
Figure 2 SEM images of L929, MG63 and osteoblastic 
cells on TM (a, c, e) and TA (b, d, f) surfaces for 24 h, 
respectively. 
