 2
置在齒槽骨上產生的應力，大約是唇側矯正裝置的
二倍大。 
西元 2008年，Viecilli et al.利用簡化的多
齒有限元素模型加入同樣簡化之矯正裝置進行分
析。文中指出在牙根、牙周韌帶以及齒槽骨曲面之
最大主應力強度，依次發生在長度、半徑與環方向。 
西元 1977 年，美國牙醫協會 NO.32 規範，率
先針對矯正牙弓線材之力學性質測試進行明文規
範。該規範以懸臂樑試驗法測試矯正牙弓線材之力
學性質，但對於試片並未進行標準化。西元 1986 
年，Miura et al.其試驗採用鎳鈦合金絲 (Ni-Ti)
將矯正牙弓線纏繞於托架上，利用三點彎曲試驗法
測試矯正牙弓線材之力學性質。西元 1995 年，
Stanton 以拉伸試驗採用三種測試方法求得矯正牙
弓線材之力學性質。三種方法分別是：拉伸至破
裂、負載與卸載之循環、疲勞。 
統整上述結論，利用三點彎曲試驗對齒顎矯正
常見之矯正牙弓線材料：不鏽鋼與鎳鈦合金進行力
學性質測試求得材料之彈性模數，將試驗結果代入
模型進行有限元素模擬；並建構三維真實牙體模
型、矯正牙弓線和舌側矯正元件。建構之有限元素
模型於 ABAQUS 有限元素分析軟體，先進行簡化模
擬，接著與文獻相互驗證後針對犬齒排列不正(犬
齒外突)進行模擬齒顎矯正分析。 
舌側矯正(如圖 1)藉著藏在牙齒矯正器內的
鋼鎳線彈弓回復力推動牙齒矯正器的托架，令牙齒
移動到一個理想位置，其裝置包括托架定位器及排
牙線。此裝置先將排牙線設計配合特定弧形的托
架，故先須利用 CNC 加工方式製造排牙線平板模，
得到排牙線模具，將熔化不鏽鋼或鎳鈦合金材料注
入模具，接著以輥軋技術，獲得排牙線，此排牙線
再穿過金屬托架緊縮定位。 
本研究在矯正元件製程分析方面，將發展電
腦輔助製造軟體以分析矯正元件之加工精度並有
效率地製作矯正元件，以提昇牙齒舌側矯正方法之
實用性。同時，本研究技術的開發，將針對牙醫學
界所採用舌側矯正技術，以達到美觀要求及較大的
矯正力，故須完成快速原型製造誤差分析以確定幾
何精準性，矯正托架及定位器快速原型件製造以實
物接觸保證舒適性；且決定最佳化速度規劃的 CNC
加工路徑以獲得排牙線幾何形狀，並完成排牙線平
板模加工製分析。 
牙齒矯正托架為細小薄殼元件，如圖2，在快
速原型製造方面必須採用適應性切層才能對細微
特徵及薄殼之元件做精確分析。其基本原理乃是在
較複雜的模型區域增加切層數量，而在不影響表面
精度的區域減少切層厚度。此方法能夠偵測較細小
的幾何區域，所以能避免嚴重的加工誤差，可以有
效地找到具微細特徵幾何之工件。 
快速原型製造技術，近十年來在國內外迅速
發展，此製造技術特別適合少量多樣產品。對於新
產品開發過程，快速原型製造已被證實可以有效縮
短開發之設計製造時程（Manufacturing lead 
time），亦可以有效降低開發成本，尤其是眼見為
憑及實物接觸感，這是牙醫界所重視的。快速原型
技術應用產業包括汽機車零件、航太零件開發、快
速模具業及醫療零件等等。 
國內應用快速原型製造技術於牙醫醫療有台
灣科技大學鄭正元教授，鄭教授團隊利用市售 CAD
軟體製作牙套齒模 STL 模型，以快速原型技術製作
蠟型再以真空鑄造製作義齒。陶瓷材料加工研究方
面，台北科技大學湯華興教授研究陶瓷燒結加工，
應用快速原型技術以陶瓷雷射熔結法及陶瓷雷射
膠化法成功製作陶瓷元件。 
Junhoon (2002)的研究都採用了 cusp height
的概念，但本研究並非加總並除以面的總數得到一
個平均值，而是由使用者來設定一個 cusp height
值，藉由此值來算出需要的切層高度來保持物的精
度。Chakraborty et al. (2008)和 Lee et al. (2007)
的研究中指出，增加噴塗路徑的長度，增加各層之
間的接觸面積，使得模型可以有較好的強度，本研
究即以此概念為出發點，希望在比對不同切層方向
所得到的數據，來得到一個較佳的切層方向。
Sarma(1999)提出了方法來計算物件的轉彎點數，
並且證明出最佳的材料路徑規劃角度會是輪廓線
段角度的其中一個，本研究採用了其方法和證明結
果來找出每一切層輪廓的最佳材料路徑規劃角度。 
 
三、研究成果 
3.1三點彎曲試驗 
彈性模數是研究材料機械性質的重要指
標，由許多試驗可以測得。本試驗的研究目的
在於利用微米三點彎曲試驗，量測目前市面上
廣泛使用之矯正牙弓線材：不鏽鋼與鎳鈦合金
進行力學性質測試求得材料之彈性模數與負載
─位移曲線。實驗架構主要由驅動控制、訊號擷
取、觀測儀器等設備所建立。驅動控制、訊號擷取
部分，將採用微力試驗機來進行。 
微拉力試驗機荷重元可以依據不同的負荷狀
況來自由選擇與搭配，目前所使用之荷重元為
125N。觀測儀器部分，包含可變焦光學顯微鏡、
黑白CCD攝影機、萬用支撐架、環狀冷光源、
螢幕…等，觀測儀器主要是來確定接觸的狀
態，以利於確定是否與試片接觸。為了避免外
界的振動對試驗的結果造成影響，微力試驗
機、荷重元將固定在光學桌上。為了方便與精
確地移動探針位置，在固定座上加裝一組手動
X-Y平台，以方便之後試驗的對位，其中X-Y
平台的選用必須注意到其剛性與精確度。自行
設計尺寸規格之置具，如圖3所示。  
 
z 試片的製作 
量測的對象為新雅貿易牙科材料有限公司
，圓形0.016 in與方形0.016*0.022 in2 之不鏽鋼
矯正牙弓線與圓形之0.018 in之鎳鈦合金矯正
牙弓線。因矯正牙弓線本身即具有牙弓線之型
態故其形狀為弧形，判斷其中間部位因加工製
造等原由有可能產生預留應力，因此本文僅取
矯正牙弓線兩側最末端作為試片，試片全長
15mm。  
 
z 試驗原理 
 4
最佳加工路徑角度規劃之後再進行加工，以減少噴
塗路徑不連續及轉彎點數過多的問題來縮短加工
時間；並且增加平均噴塗路徑的噴塗長度使得模型
有較佳的強度，本研究對托架模型物件分析 0、10
和 22.5度的切層結果，包括體積誤差及路徑長度線
段比(如表 1及表 2)。結果顯示由切層方向 0度所
得到的長度線段比及體積誤差均為最好，由這兩個
方面比較，以 0度的切層方向進行可以得到最好的
結果。圖 15 為矯正托架模型物件於 0 度的切層結
果，圖 14 為為托架模型物件於 0 的切層圖，在第
16切層最佳加工路徑規劃結果。 
 
3.5、CNC 加工路徑最佳化速度規劃 
本計畫牙齒矯正線的製作方式採用二次曲線
幾何定義矯正線，如圖 8所示，這曲線的邊界條件
為兩智齒的內側位置及兩顆門牙縫；此幾何形狀主
要是直徑為 0.25mm，長度大約 200mm，這長度可長
但不可短，其因每位成年人整體齒列形狀不同而
定，材質可為鎳鈦合金或不鏽鋼，如鈦鎳合金線形
狀記憶的特性可穩定排牙線外型，讓牙齒可以在穩
定的軌道上隨著醫師的調整順利地移動，如不鏽鋼
則利用其抗腐蝕性佳。若以一般牙科門診的舌側矯
正線做比較，雖然外形不同，但因每人的齒顎形狀
皆大小不一，故只要配合關鍵位置即可，通常考慮
靠近門牙前6顆齒型排列的弧形及長度足繞過智齒
位置。 
首先繪製一條拋物線去近似矯正線曲線，如
圖 17 所示。利用 Rhino 軟體將此曲線分成 100
個等份點，得到的點即為加工程式碼所需之座標
值。再利用角度限制演算法刪除多餘程式碼，演
算法步驟如下: 
1、計算角度時，若 P2點夾角趨近 180度，則消除
P2點，並且連接 P1P3。 
2、下一部份即計算角 P1P3P4。 
3、若不趨近 180度，則不可省略 P3，繼續計算角
P3P4P5，其相對位置如圖 18。 
   考慮誤差限制演算法，其原因如下: 由圖 18 可
得知，經由角度減縮後，捨去點(P2)而產生加工路
徑(P1-P3)和原本路徑(P1-P2-P3)相差ε的誤差值，
且此 ε 會隨著步進長度增加，和角度限制越小時
而隨著增加，所以在角度減縮時，加入一個新的條
件，即限制此 ε 值的大小，角度限制為 179 度及
誤差值為 0.01mm 以下，來避免減縮程式碼所產生
誤差。如上圖例所示可以看出綠線的前幾個點有可
能造成誤差大於原計算點，故計算誤差限制時，若
遇到連續消點的情況時，需將前幾點造成的誤差值
也列入計算， 
 
z 牙齒矯正線平板模加工分析 
本研究利用CNC加工方式製造完成排牙線型
狀於平板模上，其軌跡將影響排牙線的精確度，所
以採用有效率刀具加工路徑。有些排牙線斷面採用
方形，但本研究考慮與托架裝配方便，故只考慮圓
形。利用上述最佳化路徑規劃可提高精確度及切削
效率；現今以 VERICUT 軟體印證。由邊界條件獲得
二次曲線，利用 Rhino 軟體將此曲線均 100 個等分
點，得到的點即為基本程式碼所需之加工點座標
值。  
接著考慮角度及誤差限制演算法，其角度限
制為 179 度及誤差值為 0.01mm 以下，來避免減縮
程式碼所產生誤差，提高切削效率，如圖 19 所示。
如此，完成排牙線平板模加工製造分析。 
 
四、結論 
本計劃在牙齒矯正變形分析與矯正元件製造分
析方面，可歸納出以下結論： 
1. 利用微力試驗機所架構之三點彎曲試驗以求
得彈性模數之試驗，所求得之負載─位移曲線
圖線性區之重現性良好，測得之不鏽鋼彈性模
數為 183GPa、鎳鈦合金之彈性模數為 22GPa，
不鏽鋼文獻數據為 177~209GPa、鎳鈦合金文
獻數據為 23~50GPa。 
2. 本研究利用所建構之三維真實牙體，模型搭配
矯正裝置進行多顆牙的矯正分析。成功地觀察
到錯位牙齒和相鄰牙齒間的關係及矯正牙弓
線材料改變時其效應對齒顎矯正之影響，特別
是矯正過程中受力的變化。 
3. 矯正牙弓線之受力模擬，可以發現其彈性模數
越大應力之分佈越集中且其值愈大，隨著變形
增加，唇─舌方向之應力呈對角分佈愈明顯。 
4. 經由角度和誤差的限制可以得到一組新的
G-code，不只因減縮原本的程式碼，使得實
際切削的時間減少，更能夠改善因程式碼過
多造成的顫動現象，以達到控制表面切削痕
跡的作用，獲得較精確的矯正線同時提高切
削效率。 
5. 減縮加工程式碼過程方法，由於同時給予兩
個條件(角度和誤差限制)，故可以有效控制誤
差量，不會因減縮程式碼而造成表面精度差
異過大。 
6. 快速原型製造技術能製做的物件，較不受物
件複雜幾何的限制，尤其對拖架物件的特
性，使用快速原型來製做，如能規劃，可以
減刑許多的細碎線段，其黏著的強度則會保
持，並且減少轉換噴塗的方向，本計劃使用
適應性切層法，先確保加工出來的拖架物件
的精度後，再對於各切層進行計算來找出最
佳的加工路徑角度，增加線段間黏著的強度。 
 
五、參考文獻 
1. Hong-Seok Byun and Kwan H. Lee, 
“Determination of the optimal build direction for 
different rapid prototyping processes using 
multi-criterion decision making”, Robotics and 
Computer-Integrated Manufacturing 22,  
pp.69-80,2006. 
2. P. M. Cattaneo, M. Dalstra, and B. Melsen, “The 
Finite Element Method : a Tool to Study 
Orthodontic Tooth Movement,” J Dent Res, Vol. 
84, No. 5, pp. 428-433, 2005. 
3. Chakraborty, Debapriya, Reddy, B. Aneesh, and 
 6
 
圖 5  雙齒牙體模型 
 
 
圖 6  雙牙體 Von-Mises 應力分佈圖 
 
圖 7  雙牙體第一主應力分佈圖與方向性 
 
 
圖 8  多齒牙體有限元素模型 
 
 
圖 9  犬齒牙周韌帶之變形 
 
 
圖 10  多牙體第一主應力分佈圖與方向性 
 
 
圖 11  多牙體第三主應力分佈圖與方向性 
 
 
圖 12 犬齒受力情況 
 
 
圖 13  犬齒負載-位移曲線圖 
 
 8
附件：封面格式 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
※ ※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※ 
※                                              ※ 
※  牙齒舌側矯正元件製造分析與齒型變形模擬    ※        
※                                                 ※ 
※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※ 
CAM系統應用在全瓷牙冠加工之研發 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫  □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 97－2221－E－194－023 
執行期間：97年 08月 01日至 98年 07月 31 日 
 
主持人：林榮信   國立中正大學機械系 
共同主持人：劉德騏   國立中正大學機械系 
計畫參與人員：楊淵成、高偉順、洪元隆、張逸芬 
 
 
 
 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
 
執行單位： 國立中正大學 機械系 
 
 
中 華 民 國 98年  7月 31日 
  
  
ABSTRACT 
This paper presents a remote manufacturing system for 
rapid prototyping machine. The system provides a 
user-friendly interface for client that allows users 
communicate with the server though TCP/IP Internet 
protocol. By using the hybrid Internet structure that 
speeds up the remote manufacturing processes, the client 
user is allowed to communicate directly with the RP 
machine computer for on-line fabrication control. This 
system provides the real-time images for RP fabricating 
progresses for clients. Users can change fabrication 
parameters, such as and machining method and the 
fabrication speed, from client computer. The objective for 
this research is not only monitoring the RP fabrication 
process, but also controlling the RP machine on-line. The 
major tasks for this development are on-line transmission 
of real-time commands from client PC to machine control 
PC and video images from server to client. The 
information sent by clients for fabrication includes the 
part CAD model, RP fabricating parameters, and 
emergency stop if necessary. A demonstrated example for 
RP part fabrication through Internet control is provided in 
the end of this paper for illustrations. 
Keywords: Rapid Prototyping, Remote Manufacturing, 
Internet. 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Production has become more and more flexible to meet 
the demands of quick market changes because of shorter 
product life cycles. For many years, new technologies 
have been emerging in industry to reduce manufacturing 
lead time, and in turn substantially enhance product 
competition. These technologies include design for 
manufacturing in the design stages, high speed/ high 
feedrate computer numerical control (CNC) machining in 
                                                          
Rong-Shine Lin, associate professor, e-mail: imelin@ccu.edu.tw 
the fabrication stages, computer-aided design/ computer- 
aided manufacturing (CAD/CAM) system integration, or 
even new manufacturing processes. [3, 4, 10, 11, 12]. 
Rapid prototyping (RP) technology, a non-conventional 
manufacturing process, has been widely used in industry 
recently for prototypes, mechanism interference checking, 
conceptual design, and rapid tooling in die/mold making 
[1, 5, 7]. Unlike traditional CNC machining that removes 
materials from raw stock, RP fabrication adds small 
amounts of raw material from bottom to top, layer by 
layer. The advantages of using RP technologies include (1) 
no need for fabrication fixtures, (2) ease of integration 
with a CAD/CAM system, (3) production of complex part 
surfaces, and (4) reducing design through manufacturing 
lead time. 
As manufacturing technology grows and Internet 
communication popularizes, remote control over 
appliances becomes more and more realistic [2, 8, 9]. 
Most of the previous remote manufacturing system 
focused on the monitoring of the manufacturing processes, 
not on remotely controlling machine. In order to enhance 
the RP fabrication capabilities, this research developed a 
remote manufacturing system that controls the RP 
machine through Internet. 
The objective for this research is not only monitoring the 
RP fabrication process, but also controlling the RP 
machine on-line. The major tasks for this development are 
on-line transmission of real-time commands from client 
PC to machine control PC and video images from server 
to client. The information sent by clients for fabrication 
includes the part CAD model, RP fabricating parameters, 
and emergency stop if necessary.  
 A remote manufacturing system bas been developed in 
our laboratory and successfully implemented on a rapid 
prototyping machine. The system provides a user friendly 
interface for client PC that allows users communicate 
                                                                                            
J. H. Su, graduate student 
The Research and Development on Remote Manufacturing for 
Rapid Prototyping Systems  
Rong-Shine Lin  
Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Chung Cheng University 
Chia-Yi, Ming-Hsiung 62102, Taiwan, R. O. C. 
and 
J. H. Su 
Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Chung Cheng University 
Chia-Yi, Ming-Hsiung 62102, Taiwan, R. O. C 
  
B.  Internet Structure for Remote Communications 
The commonly usages for remote systems are 2-level and 
3-level Internet structures. The 2-level one is a directly 
connecting internet system, as shown in Fig. 2. It provides 
a directly machining manipulation from client to machine 
computer. The advantages for this connection are that it’s 
easy to do the point-to-point communications and 
provides direct controls from client computers. However, 
the security problem for directly connecting between 
machine and client computers exists. Another problem is 
that the multi-tasking processes on the machine computer 
often make the control signal delayed. Moreover, the 
computer can monitor only one machine process at one 
time. 
 
Client PC Machine PC
TCP/IP RS232 
RP Machine 
 
Fig. 2 Two-level Internet structure for remote system 
On the other hand, the 3-level structure has a server 
between the client and machine control sites, as shown in 
Fig 3. The client user has to login the server PC for ID 
verifications from the Internet before getting any control 
actions. The advantages are that it improves the Internet 
security and the server can communicate with many 
clients and machines simultaneously. However, this 
makes the Internet control indirectly. The disadvantages 
are that it is more difficult to construct the 3-level Internet 
structure than the 2-level one. 
 
Client PC Server PC 
TCP/IP 
Machine PC 
TCP/IP RS232 
RP Machine 
 
Fig. 3 Three-level Internet structure for remote system 
This research uses a two and three-level hybrid structure. 
Figure 4 shows the Internet scheme for the remote system. 
The Internet communication uses the TCP/IP protocol. To 
control the RP machine through Internet, the user sends a 
CAD part model, usually a STL format, from client PC to 
server. The server PC deals with the CAM processing, 
which includes model slicing, material path planning, and 
motion code generating. When the fabricating motion 
code is uploaded to the RP machine, the server will 
request a connection to the client. The server will give the 
client user to control the RP machine directly if the client 
accepts the request. 
At this point, the user can monitor the fabricating process 
on-line, as well as control the machine in real-time. This 
approach takes the advantages for both 2-level and 3-level 
Internet structures. The on-line control technology will be 
illustrated in the following section. 
 
 
 
Client PC Server PC
TCP/IP 
Machine PC 
TCP/IP RS232 
RP Machine 
TCP/IP
 
Fig. 4 the hybrid Internet scheme 
C.  Remote Control Interface 
In order to make the on-line machine control consistent, 
the sever will not be able to control the RP machine when 
the client gets permission for remote machine 
manipulation. For remote control, the server provides 
client a window type interface, as shown in Fig. 5. This 
interface shows the RP fabrication processes, including 
RP machining commands, measured machining positions 
and errors, machining velocities, and CCD images for 
part fabrication. Figure 6 shows a CCD image from client 
PC during part fabricating. 
The Implemented RP machine is a Computer Numeric 
Controlled (CNC) type machine. Most of the CNC 
machines provide an emergency stop for safety reasons. 
The developed remote control system provides it for 
client PC when the client user is in charge of the 
fabrication process.  
The difficulty for making an interrupt for the remote 
client site is that the sampling-time controlled CNC 
machine cannot be interrupted during fabrication and the 
server needs to send images to the client PC constantly. 
To solve this problem, dual timer loops (different 
sampling time) are used. One is for CNC machine control 
and the other is for data transmissions between client and 
server.  
 
Fig. 5 Manipulation interface for client PC 
  
B. Curve decomposition 
To decompose the NURBS curve into linear segments, 
the iteration method is used. In each iteration, a user 
defined contour error is taken into account for 
decomposition accuracy. The contour error is defined as 
the maximum distance between the approximated line 
segment and the desired curve. Figure 9 shows the 
contour error (ε) and the curve. 
 
u0 
u1 
curve 
ε 
(u0+u1)/2 
 
Fig. 9 the contour error and the decomposed line segment. 
The iteration starts from one end u0, as shown in Fig. 9, of 
the curve and checks the contour error between the 
desired curve and the approximated line segment. To 
speed up the iteration process, the maximum error is 
assumed to be at the middle of the curve, (u0+u1)/2. The 
approximated line segment is determined if the maximum 
contour error is less than the user defined value for the 
longest segment. 
 
C.  RP Fabrication 
An example NURBS curve is designed by 6 control 
points, as shown in Fig. 10. The order for basis function is 
3 and weight is 1. It is, then, decomposed into 15 line 
segments and shown in G-code format. Figure 11 shows 
the 15 linear G-codes. The user defined maximum 
contour error is 0.005 mm. The calculated contour error 
for this decomposition is shown in Fig. 12. According to 
the motion codes, the RP part, as shown in Fig. 13, was 
fabricated through Internet commands. 
 
Fig. 10 the designed NURBS curve 
 
Fig. 11 the decomposed linear G-codes 
Line segment 
Error(m
m
)
 
Fig. 12 The contour error for each segment 
 
Fig. 13 The fabricated NURBS curve 
5. CONCLUSIONS  
A remote manufacturing system bas been developed and 
successfully implemented on a rapid prototyping machine. 
The system provides a user-friendly interface for client 
PC that allows users communicate with the server though 
TCP/IP Internet protocol. By using hybrid Internet 
structure that speeds up the remote manufacturing 
processes, the client user is allowed to communicate 
directly with the RP machine computer for on-line 
fabrication control. This system provides the real-time 
images for RP fabricating progresses for clients. Users 
can change fabrication parameters, such as and machining 
