with these pricing methods above has been evaluated.
Due to the emergence of price risk in spot markets,
participants will naturally seek ways of mitigating its effects
by using long-term contracts. That is, market participants
could decide to take an active hedged position by trading in
the spot, futures, and over the counter (OTC) markets. It is
expected that contract engineering will play a significant role
in the future power markets. Energy market participants
require specialized methods to value the variety of contracts
demanded by their markets.
This research describes the modern portfolio theory with
mean-variance model to evaluate the optimal contract
portfolio under major electricity contracts. This theory deals
with the issues involved in calculating the optimal proportion
for each tradable contract. The concept of portfolio theory
offers a useful method to reduce trading risk based on the
contract diversification.
In the mean-variance model, the risk was measured by the
variance of expected profits. The higher the variance, the
more difficult it is for a company to determine how much
profit it will make for the electricity trading. The superiority
of the mean-variance model lies in its convenience on
statistical calculation. If the probability distribution of
contract prices were well approximated by the normal
distribution, the mean-variance model would be sufficient to
describe the portfolio risk. Even though the probability
distribution is not normal, the mean and variance could still
be useful criteria. For example, a small variance indicates that
the profit is likely to be close to the expected value. In this
project, case studies carried out under the UK electricity
market have indicated the portfolio theory could offer market
participants a method to construct their contract profiles.
II. MARKET PRICING SCHEME STUDIED
A. The uniform marginal price (UMP)
The prior UK Pool and New England Pool utilized the
uniform pricing system: generators are selected to generate
power by a simple merit order approach. The last accepted
generator sets the market clearing price (MCP). This is
equivalent to solve the following optimization problem:
 
PP
LPets
Ps
T
T



0
0..
min
(1)
where s is the bid price vector, P is the power dispatch vector,
P is the high operating limit vector, e is a properly
dimensioned vector with all ones, and L is the load vector.
For ease of explanation, it was assumed in this research that a
generator bids a single price, not a price curve for its range of
output. Next, transmission constraints are evaluated. If there
are constraint violations, least expensive generators (called
“constraint on”) are selected to relieve constraints, and an
optimization tool will be used to solve the problem. This tool
includes not only congestion management, but also loss
allocation and other ancillary services. Due to the re-dispatch
of the generators, it is necessary to compensate generators or
loads whose dispatch quantities differ from the promises
made in the market. These additional costs for this
compensation were called the uplift price, and constrained-on
generators are paid their bid prices subject to a locational
market power screen. In general, customers and generators
under the uniform price scheme do not directly interact to
each other, but only indirectly through the pool operator.
A potential problem with the uniform pricing is that it gives
generators an incentive to exercise market power for biding
above marginal cost, which has led to high wholesale prices.
In general, electricity markets with uniform pricing system
rely on price capping or long-term forward contracts for
market power mitigation. For example, in the prior UK Pool,
the industry regulator imposed caps on the electricity price for
many years [3]. This was blamed on the two dominant
generating companies, National Power (NP) and PowerGen
(PG), which were able to manipulate the Pool prices [4]. The
similar problems also occurred in the Ontario and California
electricity markets [5].
B. The zonal marginal price (ZMP)
The development of the zonal pricing approach was an
improvement over the uniform pricing model [6]. In the zonal
approach, it is assumed that transmission constraints are few
and can be used to delineate the network into several zones. A
uniform price is then computed for each zone. In actual power
markets, the number of zones and the size of each zone are
determined based on the topology of the transmission network,
the experience and judgment of operators, and the frequency
and degree of congestion. If congestion is not frequent in a
power market, the number of zones is few; for example, the
number of zones ranges from two to five in the Norwegian
transmission system [7]. On the contrary, the number of zones
would be large in a power market where congestion is severe
and frequent.
In addition, the transmission network is a very large and
complex system, which consists of thousands of nodes. If
nodal pricing is adopted at every node, it would complicate
the nodal price calculation and congestion charge settlement.
Therefore, network partitioning with zonal pricing would be
an efficient method for some markets in the presence of
congestion.
The key to establish a simple and efficient zonal pricing
[16] is assumed as our system load data for a whole year [17].
It is given in Fig 1 (a) with peak demand of 1595 MW in this
case. For the purpose of presenting the relationship among
four kinds of pricing schemes clearly, one-week load curve
within Fig.1(a) is utilized as our sample, which is shown in
Fig. 1(b). Based on this load curve, the generator revenues
and consumer charges form the UMP, ZMP, NMP, and BCP
systems were calculated respectively and the results are
shown in Fig.2 and Fig.3. It is noted that the four systems are
on a basis of the same system and generation parameters
except additional Bid/Offer pairs and designated contract data
for the contract-based market (BCP system) only. In addition,
these pricing algorithms and system power-flow simulations
were coded and solved by MATLAB programs.
(a) (b)
Fig. 1. (a) Annual hourly peak load curve (b) One week load sample
Fig. 2 provides a comparison on load charge results based
on four different pricing mechanisms and Fig. 3 shows the
corresponding generator revenues, which have the same
network. It is observed from both figures that the differences
on generator revenues and load charges are very significant
among different markets, which includes:
 The UMP system would benefit the total revenues for
generators, which would contradict operator’s objective 
of congestion relief and jeopardize system security. On
the other hand, the total payments under the UMP are
the highest.
 Under the contract-based market, generator revenues
and load payments are based mainly on their own
bilateral or multilateral contracts. The deviation
between their promised volumes and actual
requirements will be charged the imbalance costs. If the
output of the generator could be forecasted with 100%
accuracy, then the imbalance risks would be of little
interest.
 It seems that the NMP system would distinguish from
the unconstraint and constraint prices: when demand is
high, the system produces higher node prices due to
possible congestion. Therefore, both generator revenues
and consumer payments are high. However, during the
low demand periods, system congestion is less, which
results in lower node prices and reduces generator
revenues.
 The ZMP system would also distinguish from the
unconstraint and constraint prices. However, the price
difference between high and low demands is smaller
than that under the NMP settlement system.
 The price profile under the UMP system is flatter than
that under the ZMP or NMP system. Therefore, the
flatness of price profile could be a proper criterion for
measuring the degree of competitiveness of an
electricity market.
Fig.2. Total consumer charges based on four price settlements during a week
Fig.3. Total generator revenues based on four price settlements during a week
From Fig.2 and Fig.3, it seems that the contract-based
settlement can avoid effectively the risk on volatile spot prices
and promote free market competition. In fact, the contract
price in this module is determined by both demand and supply
side, and market participants undertake the trading risk by
themselves. It should be noted that the risk under
contract-based market would reside in the balancing market
and imbalance settlement. Once the system reserve margin is
low and dominant traders execute market power, then the
settlement prices would be raised in a high level. For example,
Fig. 4 shows total consumer charges with different Bid/Offer
prices in a week. In this case, the system Reserve Margin (RM)
is 13.2%. The definition of RM is listed as below:
RM = (Dependable Capacity-System Peak Load) / System Peak Load (4)
Fig. 6. Probability distribution of load charges based on different pricing
systems
In order to evaluate the impact of reserve margin (RM) on
the risk assessment, two RM levels along with their
corresponding risk measurements are studied. The results are
shown in Table Ⅰ and Ⅱ respectively. In both tables, it can
be noted that all the risk measures increase when the RM is
reduced from 23.62% to 13.2%. Moreover, the Std value does
not change significantly between two RM levels compared
with VaR and CVaR values.
TABLE Ⅰ
RISK ASSESSMENT FOR 4 PRICING SCHEMES UNDER 23.62% RM
Market pricing schemeRisk
measurement UMP
($)
ZMP
($)
NMP
($)
BCP
($)
The expected
value
27587 29187 27600 20604
The std. 13435 12528 10625 4498.7
0.95-VaR 54454 47143 42350 27833
0.95-CVaR 55538 48349 43433 28544
TABLE Ⅱ
RISK ASSESSMENT FOR 4 PRICING SCHEMES UNDER 13.2% RM
Market pricing schemeRisk
measurement UMP
($)
ZMP
($)
NMP
($)
BCP
($)
The expected
value
35539 36110 35609 23426
The std. 16439 13341 15754 5140
0.95-VaR 60247 58208 67088 31628
0.95-CVaR 61707 59696 78394 32698
In addition to two RM levels, this work measures the risks
of different pricing schemes under a continuous RM range. In
terms of VaR and CVaR measurements, the results are shown
in Fig. 7. By comparing the values of VaR and CVaR
respectively, it can be noted that remarkable variations appear
in the NMP system, which indicates the NMP system could
distinguish from the unconstraint and constraint price risks. In
addition, it confirms that VaR and CVaR are efficient
measures of the market risk. For example, under the NMP
system, the CVaR is equal to 39485 in 30.56% RM but
reaches up to 258110 in 8.34%RM, which could result from
transmission congestion. The higher CVaR value denotes a
larger load charges with a consequent increase in the risk.
Moreover, as expected, when the RM is high, the load charges
of four pricing systems will be closed to the same.
Fig. 7. Risk measurements on a given RM range
Ⅴ. PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT AND
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS
The second target of this project focused on the risk
management of electricity contracts. Inadequate generation
and congestion in some contingency states result in extreme
price volatility. The random nature of failures results in great
price uncertainty. Therefore, hedging contracts have become
an important tool dealing with price spikes. Customers who
wish to hedge against price risk and maintain a certain
reliability level can sign specific contracts with generators.
The generators can also use contracts to hedge against profit
volatility.
As a result, in order to achieve the optimal portfolio
combining two risky contracts and a risk-free contract, a
power supplier could sign 1-ωP percent of electricity volumes
in the risk-free contract with the certain profit rf; sign ωP‧ωA
percent of electricity volumes in one risky contract, and
purchase the ωP‧ωB percent of power from the other risky
contract. A detailed calculation procedure for each contract
proportion is summarized by the following steps:
1. Specify the profit-risk characteristics of all possible
trading contracts, such as
ACBCABCBACBA  ,,,,,,, , .
2. Calculate the proportion of each contract, such as ωA
and ωB, in the optimal risky contract portfolio by using
equation (15) and (16)
3. Calculate the profit (μp) and risk (σp) of the optimal
risky contract portfolio based on the results of step 2.
4. Calculate the proportion of the complete portfolio
allocated to the risk-free contract (1-ωp) and to the risky
contract portfolio (ωp) by using equation (14)
5. Calculate the share of the complete portfolio purchased in
each contract
Ⅶ. Numerical Result
The application of the optimal portfolio theory was utilized
in the UK power market. Under NETA, a number of OTC
markets and power exchanges have emerged in response to
traders’ demand. Nowadays, power exchanges such as the
UKPX and UKAPX have traded significant volumes of
electricity in their short-term markets.
Power contracts can be complex combinations of various
derivatives. In order to determine contract portfolios, a power
supplier must analyze a number of scenarios by choosing
different contract types and find the probability distribution of
individual profit from these scenarios. These analyses are
based on the near historical data traded in the market.
For this study, the profit of a power supplier is defined by
equation (17)
trevenueprofit PPP cos (17)
revenueP is the electricity selling price of a supplier, which
represents the revenue for a supplier. It is assumed that the
supplier did not implement real-time pricing, thus the selling
price was kept to a constant value. Pcost are the actual prices of
futures contracts, spot contracts, or risk-free contracts. These
prices represent the total cost for a supplier. In this work, the
profit is calculated on a daily basis, and the last day price on
futures day contract before it expired is utilized as the futures
price.
In this research, it is assumed that the selling price is set at
£22 per megawatt, and the risk-free contract price be set at
£21 per megawatt. The futures prices and daily average spot
prices are derived from the actual UKPX trading data. These
UKPX trading prices were used in this analysis as proxies for
the futures and spot prices in the market.
Based on the portfolio theory described in section Ⅵ, the
supplier could construct the contract portfolio through the
above three contracts and obtain an optimal hedging strategy
with its highest possible utility value. The results of the
optimal contract portfolios in this case are shown in Table Ⅲ.
For example, if this supplier is a risk taker with a low risk
aversion coefficient A=0.01, it could sign 43.69 percent of its
electricity volume in the risk-free contract, 27.59% in the
futures contract, and 28.72% in the spot contract.
TABLE Ⅲ
THE PROPORTIONS OF THE OPTIMAL PORTFOLIO OF CONTRACTS
BASED ON DIFFERENT RISK AVERSION COEFFICIENT IN A
WINTER MONTH
Risk aversion
coefficient
(A)
Risk-free
contract
(%)
Futures
contract
(%)
Spot
contract
(%)
0.01 43.69 27.59 28.72
0.02 71.85 13.79 14.36
0.03 81.23 9.20 9.57
0.04 85.92 6.90 7.18
0.05 88.74 5.52 5.74
Hedging strategy should be a dynamic approach because
the optimal portfolio would move as time, the probability
distribution of contract prices, and the correlations of the
component contracts change. It should be adjusted according
to different months and seasons. That is, the strategy on
contract portfolios should be reviewed periodically to
evaluate its effectiveness and to adjust to changing market
conditions. Therefore, in order to evaluate contract portfolios
in different seasons, this research analyzed another set of
market data in the UK power market. The contract prices on
spot and futures markets were derived from UKPX trading
data, and the efficient frontier based on the combination of
spot and futures contracts is shown in Fig. 8. In this analysis,
the selling price and the risk-free contract price were set at
£21 and £15 per megawatt respectively. From this figure, if
two risky contracts, spot and future contracts, are considered,
the optimal contract selection is located at point D. However,
if risk-free, spot, and futures contracts are included, the
optimal contract portfolio would be represented by point E,
and the utility value would increase from £5.93 to £6.24 per
megawatt. In addition, on the basis of different risk aversion
coefficients, the proportions of the optimal overall portfolio in
this duration are given in Table Ⅳ.
give a valuable analysis and comparison on pricing
mechanisms, and 3) to introduce a new concept that applies
the modern portfolio theory to determine the optimal power
contract portfolio strategy.
Two journal papers are under preparation for submission as a
result of the research work performed in this project. The
author has been invited to present a related paper [14] in the
discussion panel section of 2005 IEEE/PES Transmission and
Distribution Conference.
REFERENCES
[1] Ashwani Kumar,S.C.Srivastava, and S.N.Singh, “Congestion management 
in competitive power market: A bibliographical survey,” Electric Power
Systems Research, vol.76, pp.153-164, 2005
[2] Shrestha, G.B.; Fonseka, P.A.J., “Congestion-driven transmission
expansion in competitive power markets,”IEEE Trans. Power Syst., vol.
19, no. 3, pp. 1658–1665, Aug 2004.
[3] D. M. Newbury, “Pool reform and competition in electricity,” Tech. Rep., 
Univ. of Cambridge, London, U.K., DAE Working Papers 9734,1997.
[4] R. J. Green and D. M. Newbury, “Competition in the British electricity 
spot market,” J. Polit. Econ., vol. 100, no. 51, 1992.
[5] J. B. Bushnel, F. A. Wolak, “Regulation and the Leverage of Local 
Market Power in the California Electricity Market”, The University of 
California, Energy Institute, Working Paper, July 1999.
[6] M.I.ALOMOUSH; S.M.SHAHIDEHPOUR: ‘Fixed transmission rights 
for zonal congestion management’, IEE Proc. Gener. Trans. Distrib., 146, (5),
1999, pp.471-476
[7] XING WANG; Y.H. SONG; Q.LU; Y.Z.SUN: ‘Series FACTS devices in 
financial transmission rights auction for congestion management’, IEEE
Power Engineering Review, 21, (11), 2001, pp.41-44
[8] ASHWANI KUMAR, S.C.SRIVASTAVA, S.N.SINGH: “Congestion 
management in competitive power market: A bibliographical survey ”, 
Electric Power Systems Research,76, 2005, pp.153-164
[9] Conejo, A.J.; Castillo, E.; Minguez, R.; Milano, F., “Locational marginal
price sensitivities,”IEEE Trans. Power Syst., vol. 20, no. 4, pp. 2026 –
2033, Nov 2005.
[10] Buygi, M.O.; Balzer, G.; Shanechi, H.M.; Shahidehpour, M.,
“Market-based transmission expansion planning,”IEEE Trans. Power Syst.,
vol. 19, no. 4, pp. 2060–2067, Nov 2004.
[11] Attaviriyanupap, P.; Yokoyama, A., “Price volatility and service
interruption risk-hedging by transmission contract,”IEEE Trans. Power Syst.,
vol. 21, no. 1, pp. 211–223, Feb 2006.
[12] Chung, T.S.; Zhang, S.H.; Yu, C.W.; Wong, K.P.,“Electricity market risk
management using forward contracts with bilateral options,” IEE
Proceedings-Generation, Transmission and Distribution, vol.150, no.5,
pp.588-594, Sep 2003
[13] F. D. Galiana, I. Kockar, and P. C. Franco, “Combined pool/bilateral
dispatch—Part I: Performance of trading strategies,” IEEE Trans. Power
Syst., vol. 17, no. 1, pp. 92–99, Feb. 2002.
[14] Yuan-Kang Wu, “Comparison of Pricing Schemes of Several 
Deregulated Electricity Markets in the World”, 2005 IEEE/PES
Transmission and Distribution Conference and Exhibition: Asia and
Pacific, pp.1-6, Aug 2005.
[15] M.I.ALOMOUSH; S.M.SHAHIDEHPOUR: ‘Fixed transmission rights 
for zonal congestion management’, IEE Proc. Gener. Trans. Distrib., 1999,
146, (5), pp.471-476
[16] ROY BILLINTON, WENYUAN LI: ‘Reliability assessment of electric 
power systems using monte carlo methods’ (New York, PlenumPress, 1994)
[17] HEGAZY, Y.G., SALAMA, M.M.A., AND CHIKHANI, A.Y.:
‘Adequacy assessment of distributed generation systems using Monte Carlo 
Simulation’,IEEE Trans. Power Syst., 18, (1), pp. 48–52, 2003.
[18] Caruso, E.; Dicorato, M.; Minoia, A.; Trovato, M., “Supplier risk
analysis in the day-ahead electricity market,”IEE Proceedings-Generation,
Transmission and Distribution, vol. 153, No. 3, pp.335-342, May 2006.
[19] Dahlgren, R.; Chen-Ching Liu; Lawarree, J.,“Risk assessment in energy
trading”, IEEE Trans. Power Syst., vol. 18, no. 2, pp. 503–511, May 2003.
[20] TERRY J. WATSHAM: ‘International Portfolio Management: A Modern
Approach’ (London, Longman, 1st edition, 1993)
[21] EDWIN J. ELTON, MARTIN J. GRUBER: ‘Modern portfolio theory 
and investment analysis’, (New York, Wiley, 6th ed, 2003)
[22] FRANK K. REILLY; KEITH C. BROWN: ‘Investmentanalysis and
Portfolio Management’, (7th edition, THOMSON, South-Western, 2003)
[23] ZVI BODIE, ALEX KANE, ALAN J. MARCUS: ‘Investments’, (5th ed. 
Boston, McGraw-Hill/Irwin, 2002)
