I .  Introduction 
  Fluid flow and particle transport in micro or smaller 
length scales have recently received a lot of attention, as 
demanded by many biological and engineering 
applications for realizing the concept of “Lab-On-a-Chip” 
under the theme of microfluidics [1]. Since typical length 
scales of interest in these systems span from 100nm to 
100µm, the surface-to-volume ratio is generally large. As 
a result, transports are often susceptible to minuscule 
effects due to surface-tension phenomena or 
intermolecular forces. In addition, driving forces and 
relevant hydrodynamics in small scales also behave 
differently from those in large scales. These natures in 
small scales therefore entail a new paradigm and 
fundamental understanding, as the attention turns into 
control, manipulation and design for fulfilling a variety of 
functions in a single device. Several different types of 
forces are often encountered in small-scale systems: (i) 
capillary forces; (ii) contact line/wetting forces; (iii) 
intermolecular forces; (iv) pressure forces, and (v) electric 
forces. Below we illustrate how a system is influenced by 
these forces as length scales become small.  
    It is clear that capillary forces dominate in 
small-scale environments as they are scaled as 1/R where 
R is a local radius of the interface’s curvature. As a system 
containing two or more phases, contact line forces often 
prevail because forces are scaled like ln(R). This also 
explains the reason why it is often difficult to wet in 
microfluidic systems once contact lines are formed. 
Another small-scale force often arises from when two 
surfaces are brought closer within 100nm or smaller. In 
this case, intermolecular forces such as van der Waals or 
electrostatic interactions will come into play, leading to 
attraction or repulsion between the surfaces, as described 
by classical DLVO theory. Such forces are typically 
short-range with respect to macroscopic scales and 
generally scaled like 1/hn (n≥2) where h is the separation 
between two surfaces, depending on the nature of a 
system. It is this force responsible for formation of a 
variety of self-assembled structures if one can tune it 
under appropriate conditions. 
    In hydrodynamic aspects, small-scale systems often 
suffer problems lacking of pumping efficiency using 
pressure forces. This can be easily understood by the 
Hagen–Poiseuille law—the flow resistance is inversely 
proportional to a4 where a is the hydrodynamic radius of a 
microchannel. It immediately follows that for a given 
pressure forcing, halving the channel dimension will drop 
the flow rate to 6%! Another important characteristic that 
often occurs in microfluidic systems is laminar flow. This 
nature generally causes problems in mixing, as solutes are 
necessary to cross streamlines. In laminar flow, the only 
way to transport solutes across streamlines is through 
diffusion. For a typical aqueous solution of diffusivity D ~ 
10-5cm2/s in a microchannel of a ~100µm, it takes time 
a2/D ~ 10s to transport solutes across streamlines, which is 
clearly inefficient. Fortunately, small length scales can 
render effectiveness using electrokinetics means. This is 
because the electric field is generated by an applied 
voltage ∆V across the electrode separation l. With a 
typical ∆V of 10~100V, a pair of microelectrodes of   
 
  
  
 
 
l~100µm will create a huge electric field of 103 ~ 104 
V/cm! Therefore, it is advantageous to drive fluids in 
microdevices.  
   All the forces mentioned above blow up as relevant 
length scales approach zero. Since they all can occur in a 
system and exhibit different dependences on various 
microscopic or macroscopic length scales, the mechanism 
that controls the process often changes from one occasion 
to another, depending on physical conditions. In fact, there 
are always competitions among these forces. It is therefore 
important to understand how these forces interplay in 
small-scale environments so that the insights gained from 
which can guide one to optimize the device for 
implementing specific functions. 
   In this work, we present a new microfluidic scheme 
combining hydrodynamics and intermolecular forces to 
manipulate droplets/particles in microchannels. It 
involves selectively patterning different wettabilities in a 
bifurcating microchannel. As we shall demonstrate, a 
droplet in a closely-fitted channel can undergo biased 
movement due to its hydrophilic/hydrophobic affinity to 
the surfaces. We find that hydrophilic/hydrophobic effects 
can manifest in the 100nm-sized film between the droplet 
and the surface. These forces are attributed in part to 
disjoining pressures [2] that originate from van der Waals 
intermolecular forces. The effects can be further mediated 
by hydrodynamic interactions, as we will also show. With 
the aid of a scaling analysis, we can identify the 
mechanisms underlying this process. For the first time, a 
possible intermolecular probe can be realized under the 
continuous-flow condition.  
 
II .  Experiment 
   The featured microchannel consists of one main 
channel and two bifurcating branches. See fig. 1. The 
width of the channel is 200µm. Fabrication of the 
microchannel is carried out using the polydimethylsiloxane 
(PDMS)-based soft lithography technique [3]. In brief, a 
master  is first created through pre-patterned photomask 
using photolithography. Liquid PDMS pre-polymer is 
poured over the master and cured. The softness of the 
PDMS replica is controlled by adding a proper amount of 
the curing agent. The featured microchannel is formed 
after peeling the PDMS replica from the master. Having 
selective plasma oxidation for the two branches, the 
channel is then connected to proper tubing and then 
covered by a glass substrate.  
    
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. Motion of droplets in a bifurcating 
microchannel. The flow is toward right. 
surface effects are strong enough to change the course of 
the drop. The criterion can be established by comparing 
van der Waals forces (that acts normally on the drop) to 
the viscous drag (that exerts tangentially on the drop) in 
the film region. This yields 
         (λ/a)3 Ca−7/3 ~(A/σa2) Ca−7/3,    (2) 
where A is the Hamaker constant (~ 10−19 J). Here we 
have invoked the Hamaker length λ ~ (AR/σ )1/3 as a 
result of balancing the disjoining pressure with the 
capillary pressure. Eq. (2) indicates that the slower U, the 
stronger effect to re-direct the drop motion due to the 
imbalance of van der Waals forces at the bifurcation. Yet, 
Eq. (1) reveals that a slow U can also enhance the 
drop-drop interactions and hence will mitigate any effects 
from surface forces. It is due to this competition that 
requires an optimization for maximizing the effect.       
   As such, criteria (1) and (2) provide the keys to 
manipulating the process. With these criteria, one can first 
identify the importance of the drop-wall interactions, and 
then seek a way to manipulate the drop motion through 
surface modification. Note that these two criteria exhibit 
different dependences on Ca. We therefore plot them in 
fig. 3 below for facilitating the subsequent interpretations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
    
    
    
    As such, the trend shown in fig. 2 can be explained 
in line with fig. 3. At high flow rates (Q >Q*), the 
drop-drop interactions are weak. So the droplet movement 
is determined by its interactions with the walls via the 
hydrophilicity/hydrophobicity contrast. Since such surface 
effects are furnished by van der Waals forces and exert on 
the drop normally, the higher flow rate (and hence the 
drop speed) will lead the drop to have less time to interact 
with the walls for sustaining the effects. Hence, any 
biased movement in this regime will be diminished 
(enhanced) by increasing (decreasing) Q. 
    In the low flow-rate regime (Q <Q*), van der Waals 
forces become more effective. So a droplet can now 
perceive sufficient surface force difference to change its 
course. However, the drop-drop interactions also become 
important in this regime. As Q is decreased from Q*, 
although the surface effect is strong enough to affect the 
drop motion, it is mitigated by strong drop-drop 
interactions because the drop separation becomes smaller. 
    
As a result, a droplet that is about to approach the 
bifurcation will feel a large flow resistance generated by 
those ahead of it. It is this flow resistance that squeezes 
incoming droplets toward different branch. Therefore, the 
surface-deflection effect is now compromised by lowering 
the flow rate.   
   Since droplets are continuously dispersed into the 
solution, hydrodynamic interactions between droplets 
seem inevitable and hence using surface effects to have a 
precise control of the drop motion is generally difficult. 
How to re-direct droplets completely using surface forces? 
Criteria (1) and (2) provide a hint in line of fig. 3. We find 
that if one can shift the operating line (green line) for van 
der Waals forces to the higher flow-rate regime (larger 
Ca), this will render a wider operation region such that van 
der Waals forces dominate over the drop-drop 
hydrodynamic interactions in a range of the flow rate. This 
can be achieved by reducing the channel height a in view 
of (2). If a is reduced to a/3, it enhances the effects of van 
der Waals forces to one order of magnitude! One then 
chooses an appropriate flow rate to manifest the effect. As 
such, a precise control of the drop motion can be realized 
by a fine tune between intermolecular forces and 
hydrodynamic effects. This idea is illustrated in fig. 4.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  In conclusion, we demonstrate a new way to 
manipulate drops/particles in a microchannel. By making 
use of differences in intermolecular interactions between 
drops and the channel surfaces, it is possible to separate 
drops/particles according to their affinities to the channel 
surfaces. This also provides a potential probe for assessing 
intermolecular interactions under the theme of 
microfluidics.  
 
1. Stone, H. A., Stroock, A. D. and Ajdari, A., Ann. Rev. 
Fluid Mech., 36, 381-411 (2004).  
2. Derjaguin, B. V., and Churaev, N. V.,Colloid J. USSR, 
38, pp. 438 (1976). 
3. Y. Xia, Y. and Whitesides, G.M., Angew. Chem., Int. 
Ed. 37, 550 (1998).  
4. Bretherton, F.P., J. Fluid Mech., 10, 166 (1961). 
 
  
 
 
 
10-6 10-5 10-4 10-3 10-2
10-2
10-1
100
101
102
103
Ca
Weak drop-drop 
interactions 
Strong drop-drop 
interactions
Weak 
van der Waals 
Strong 
van der Waals 
4 /9 5 13/9/( / ) ~ 10Ca r R Ca− − −
2 7 /3
/// ~ ( / )vdwF F A a Caσ −
Ca Uµ σ=  
Fig. 3. Scaling map for relevant effects. The flow rate 
range in the experiments is indicated by blue. Note  
also that the red dash line nearly corresponds to the 
optimal flow rate Q* at which the tendency toward  
the hydrophilic end is the greatest, as shown in fig. 2.    
10-6 10-5 10-4 10-3 10-2
10-2
10-1
100
101
102
103
CaCa Uµ σ=
7/3
//
2~
vdwF A Ca
F σ
−   a Ca-window forNL/NB = ∞ !
a
Reducing “ a “ can magnify 
van der Waals interactions 
significantly !
 
Fig. 4. Strategy for magnifying van der Waals 
interactions in a microchannel. 
