2THE IN VITRO EFFECTS OF DEHYDROEPIANDROSTERONE ON CHONDROCYTES
METABOLISM
INTRODUCTION
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a degenerative joint disease characterized by loss of articular cartilage, subchondral
bone remodeling, joint space narrowing, and bone spur formation. There are several treatment modalities,
including administration of non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs or steroids, physical therapy,
intra-articular injection of hyaluronan and surgery such as osteotomy and joint replacement as a last resort.
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) is a 19-carbon steroid hormone classified as an adrenal androgen. The
exogenous administration of DHEA was found to offer protection against the development of
collagen-induced arthritis in an animal model (Williams PJ, et al. 1997). Recently, the effect of DHEA
on collagenase and gelatinase production has been reported (Lee KS, et al. 2000). Later, DHEA has been
demonstrated to have an ability to modulate the imbalance between matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs)
and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases 1 (TIMP-1) at the transcription level, which suggests that
DHEA has a protective role against articular cartilage loss (Jo H, et al. 2003). The aim of present study
was to investigate whether DHEA has a protective role against articular cartilage. The in vitro effects of
dehydroepiandrosterone on chondrocytes metabolism were elucidated by the demonstration of the effects
of DHEA on the maintenance of the cartilage matrix and on the gene expression of various inflammatory
mediators.
MATERIALS AND METHODS
Primary culture of chondrocytes was harvested from newborn Wistar rats. Chondrocytes were released
from articular cartilage. The chondrocytes were then re-suspended and plated in 100-mm tissue culture
for 7 days in monolayer culture. The chondrocyte were harvested and re-suspended to an equal volume of
molten 4% (w/v) agarose type VII to yield a final cell concentration of1x107cellsml-1in 2% (w/v) agarose
for each sub-population. Each chondrocyte/agarose suspension was poured into sterile 96-wells
pre-designed moulds (Fig. 1) and allowed to gel at 40°C for 20min. The specimens were placed into
separate wells of a 6 well tissue culture plates for further study.
In this study, we used 10-5 g/mL lipopolysaccharide to simulate pyogenic arthritis (Hartert MM, et al.
2003) and 10-5 M S-nitroso-N-acetyl-L-penicillamine (SNAP, Sigma Chemical, St. Louis, Missouri, USA)
to simulate degenerative arthritis (Cao M, et al. 1997). In a series of experiments on cell proliferation and
GAG synthesis, chondrocytes in monolayer culture for proliferation assay or chondrocytes in agarose gel
for glycosaminoglycan (GAG) assay, hydroxyproline (OHP) content and gene expression were incubated
in growth medium with 10-5, 10-6, 10-7, 10-8 M of DHEA. The biochemical analysis included the NO
release, PGE2, interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases (TIMP-1) production; the
cellular RNA was isolated and cDNA synthesized and real-time quantitative RT-PCR for gene expression
analysis was performed using an ABI Prism 7000 Sequence Detector.
RESULTS
Chondrocytes at every concentration proliferated actively but significant differences were observed
between cells treated with DHEA at the 1st day of culture (n = 9; P < 0.05). We chose 10-6 M DHEA for
