 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 成果報告   期中進度報告 
 
正交分頻多工行動通訊之蜂巢搜尋與通道檢估技術研究 
 
計畫類別：個別型計畫   整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 99-2221-E-008-038- 
執行期間： 99 年 8 月 1 日 至 100 年 9 月 30 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立中央大學 通訊工程學系 
 
計畫主持人：林嘉慶 特聘教授兼系主任 
計畫參與人員：何欣芸、林文祥、黃立文、邱偉哲、謝馨儀、張靜宜、施博淦、
莊文雄、張漢魁、周高鵬、孫郁婷、林啟盛 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：精簡報告  完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
 
中   華   民   國  100 年 10 月 20 日
 II
Abstract 
OFDM technologies have focused a lot of research effort in academia and received substantial research 
and development attention in industry, because they are expected to be the core technologies in the 4G 
standards of mobile communication in the near future. In this project, the primary purposes are to concentrate 
research effort on reducing average error rate in order to achieve the higher transmission effectiveness and 
efficiency and to enable a capability of fast connecting a base station which can provide satisfactory service. 
In 4G mobile communications, the mobile station has to identify the synchronization signal from the base 
station to conduct sector search, and consequently complete cell identification. The synchronization and 
frequency offset estimation/compensation information from cell and sector search can help channel 
estimation and equalization to cancel various channel effects. 
 
The major research topics are as follows: 
 Cell search 
 Sector search 
 Time-synchronization in OFDM  
 Frequency offset estimation/compensation in OFDM 
 Distributed-chunk channel estimation 
 
 
Keywords: Cell Search, Sector Search, Carrier Frequency Offset (CFO), OFDM, Channel Estimation (CE)  
 
 
 
 2
performance of IEEE 802.11p standards in cases when the pilot density is insufficient to accurately estimate 
channel states in rich-scattering environments. This technique is based on a least squares (LS) algorithm and 
assisted from Zadoff-Chu (ZC) sequences arranged into the symbol prefix and training preambles. The 
channel conditions tested in this paper were comprehensively simulated in urban, suburb and express-way 
scenarios. 
已發表之會議論文如下： 
附錄二： 
Chi-Sheng Lin, and Jia-Chin Lin, “Handover in Vehicular Communication Networks,” IEEE Int. 11th ITS 
Telecommun. Cof., to appear, St. Petersburg, Russia, 22-25 Aug., 2011. 
Abstract: 
Novel techniques of Road Side Unit (RSU) selection for handover were investigated in this study. It was 
determined that there are currently no efficient RSU selection schemes, which is a severe issue for 
conventional techniques following the current IEEE 802.11p standard. Recently, dataaided OFDM 
(DA-OFDM), such as Pseudo-Random-Postfix-OFDM (PRP-OFDM) and Time Domain Synchronous-OFDM 
(TDS-OFDM), have received attention because of their capability for higher effectiveness with better 
transmission quality. This study derived the maximum likelihood (ML) channel estimation for DA-OFDM and 
evaluated and compared proposed techniques by computer simulations. 
附錄三： 
Kao-Peng Chou, and Che-Kang Sun, “A Modified Decision Directed Channel Tracking of 802.11p OFDM 
System,” IEEE Int. 11th ITS Telecommun. Cof. & TRxITS Workshop 2011, to appear, St. Petersburg, Russia, 
22-25 Aug., 2011. 
Abstract: 
A modified decision directed channel interpolation techniques of orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing 
(OFDM) system is proposed in this paper. The decision directed channel tracking method in OFDM system 
always encounters the error propagation problem. To make a practical design, the modified decision directed 
method in this paper is a low complexity algorithm which can lower the effect of decision error propagation. 
Simulation results show that the proposed algorithm outperform conventional block interpolations as the SNR 
exceed certain level. 
附錄四： 
Chin-Yi Chang, Yu-Ting Sun, and Meng-Lin Ku, “MUSIC-Based Multiple CFOs Estimation Methods for 
CA-OFDM Systems,” IEEE Int. 11th ITS Telecommun. Cof. & TRxITS Workshop 2011, to appear, St. 
Petersburg, Russia, 22-25 Aug., 2011. 
Abstract: 
Orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) is a very promising technique for high data rate 
 4
August 2011, ISBN: 978-953-307-274-6. 
 Han-Kui Chang, Meng-Lin Ku, Li-Wen Huang and Jia-Chin Lin, “Multiple Antenna Techniques,” 
Chapter 4 in Recent Advances in Wireless Communications and Networks, edited by: Jia-Chin Lin, 
published by InTech, August 2011, ISBN: 978-953-307-274-6. 
已發表之碩士畢業論文如下： 
100 學年度 
 莊文雄：放大轉送中繼站網路正交分頻多工通道估測技術 (OFDM Channel Estimation Techniques 
for Amplify-and-forward Relay Networks) 
 施博淦：應用高階統計之特徵法自動調變辨識技術  (A Feature-Based Automatic Modulation 
Classification Technique Using High-Order Statistics) 
 張靜宜：先進長程演進系統中載波聚合技術的初始同步  (Initial Synchronization in Carrier 
Aggregation Scenarios Applied on LTE-A Communications) 
 謝馨儀：應用於感知無線電之序列式高階統計量頻譜偵測 (Higher-Order Statistics Based Sequential 
Spectrum Sensing for Cognitive Radio) 
 
四、 結論與建議 
隨著無線通訊的發展，無線通訊系統的的架構越龐大也越複雜，在加速通訊系統之上、中、下游整合
的過程中，我們清楚了無線通訊的研究需要大量的物力與人力的投入；除了大量的研究設備費外(以本
計劃之儀器設備費實在無法支付)，研發人才嚴重不足。為能進一步培育高階專業且具有完整的通訊系
統概念之人力，並以整合通訊、資訊及電機之背景知識、設備及空間為本計劃之主要考量與目標，希
冀成立整合型尖端研究與基礎教學之實驗與研究群；目前解決的方式乃是先行進行理論研究，並且尋
求產業界合作機會。 
 
 
 
 6
參考文獻 
[1] C.-S. Lin, C.-K. Sun, J.-C. Lin and B.-C. Chen, “Performance evaluations of channel estimations in IEEE 
802.11p environments,” Springer Telecommu. Syst. (SCI), pp. 1-12, Jun. 2011.  
[2] C.-S. Lin and J.-C. Lin, “Handover in vehicular communication networks,” in Proc. IEEE Int. 11th ITS 
Telecommun. Conf., St. Petersburg, Russia, August 22-25, 2011. 
[3] K.-P. Chou and C.-K. Sun, “A modified decision directed channel tracking of 802.11p OFDM System,” in 
Proc. IEEE Int. 11th ITS Telecommun. Conf., St. Petersburg, Russia, August 22-25, 2011. 
[4] C.-Y. Chang, Y.-T. Sun and M.-L. Ku, “MUSIC-based multiple CFOs estimation methods for CA-OFDM 
systems,” in Proc. IEEE Int. 11th ITS Telecommun. Conf., St. Petersburg, Russia, August 22-25, 2011. 
[5] H.-Y. Hsieh, H.-K. Chang and M.-L. Ku, “Higher-order statistics based sequential spectrum sensing for 
cognitive radio,” in Proc. IEEE Int. 11th ITS Telecommun. Conf., St. Petersburg, Russia, August 22-25, 
2011. 
 
這樣的消息真的覺得很驕傲，因此明年的會議也爭取到在台灣舉辦，在許多
方面台灣其實是很厲害的，只是可能不善於包裝導致很多人不知道而已，我
們應該要很自豪我們的能力是不輸給其他國的人。 
 
三、建    議 
出國的花費及論文註冊費不便宜且由於出國的補助經費並不充裕，有些
人可能因為經費的不足而無法參與國際會議是很可惜的。建議教育部及國科
會能多補助學者及學生出國開會發表論文，讓其他各國的人了解我們的潛
能。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
會議論文 CD 
會議議程 
 
五、其    他 
無 
會除了吸取不同的研究重點、技術及思考方向，另外也是認識人的好地方，
主動與他人互動更可以有不能層次的成長。 
 
三、建    議 
無 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
會議論文 CD 
會議議程 
 
五、其    他 
 2
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
無 
 
四、建    議 
無 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
會議論文 CD 
會議議程 
 
六、其    他 
無 
 
Fig. 1. The proposed multiple RF chain block diagram.
In this paper, we resort to multiple signal classification
(MUSIC) algorithms to estimate multiple CFOs at the same
time. Two novel MUSIC-based CFOs estimation methods
which employ MUSIC or root-MUSIC algorithms [10] are
proposed for estimating multiple CFOs. First, we propose
a set of preambles which are constructed from Hadamard
sequences, and each component carrier is associated with a
particular preamble. A bank of bandpass filters and oscillators
is applied to down-convert the received preamble signals into
the baseband. Subsequently, we develop two MUSIC-based
CFO estimation methods, based on the MUSIC and root-
MUSIC algorithms, to estimate the multiple CFOs. Finally,
two CFOs mapping methods are proposed to identify which
estimated CFOs belong to which component carriers.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. In
Section II, an CA-OFDM system, along with the preamble
structure, is described. The MUSIC-based CFOs estimation
methods for carrier aggregation systems are proposed in Sec-
tion III. Simulation results are discussed in Section IV. Finally,
some concluding remarks are given in Section V.
II. CA-OFDM SYSTEMS
A. System Model
Fig. 2 shows the system model for CA-OFDM systems. The
system consists of Nc different component carriers, and each
component carrier is associated with a specific frequency band
without overlapping with others. Each component carrier may
appear as carrier to legacy users in ordinary OFDM systems
while users in the carrier aggregation scenario are able to trans-
mit and receive several component carriers simultaneously.
The transmitted signals in time domain for themth component
carrier can be expressed as
xm(n) =
1√
N
N−1∑
k=0
Xm(k)e
j 2pin
N
k (1)
whereN is the number of subcarriers,Xm(k) is the frequency-
Fig. 2. CA-OFDM systems with component carriers.
domain signal at the kth subcarrier, −Ng ≤ n ≤ N − 1 and
Ng is the length of the cyclic prefix (CP). Let hm(l) be the
complex channel gain of the lth path corresponding to themth
component carrier. Further, we denote εm as the normalized
CFO for the mth component carrier. Note that the CFO is
mainly due to the oscillator mismatch problem between the
transmitter and the receiver, and the normalized CFO is usually
defined as εm =
∆fm
∆f , where ∆fm denotes the discrepancy
of carrier frequencies for the mth frequency band, and ∆f
represents the subcarrier spacing. For practical applications,
the maximum CFO could be as large as 20ppm, and the central
frequencies of component carriers depend on the frequency
bands used for aggregated transmission. For example, in a
modified Harmonic model as follows:
F =


r
T (0)
r
T (1)
...
r
T (Ω− 2)
r
T (Ω− 1)


=


r(0) r(Ω) · · · r((Q− 1)Ω)
r(1) r(Ω + 1) · · · r((Q− 1)Ω + 1)
...
...
...
...
r(Ω− 1) r(2Ω− 1) · · · r(QΩ− 2)
r(Ω− 2) r(2Ω− 2) · · · r(QΩ− 1)


(10)
where (·)T represents the transpose operation. From (10), the
correlation matrix can be estimated and calculated by
Rˆr =
1
Ω
F
H
F (11)
By applying the eigen decomposition, the signal subspace and
the noise subspace can be found in the following:
Rˆr =
1
Ω
F
H
F
= [UsUz]
[
Λs O
O Λz
] [
U
H
s
U
H
z
]
= UsΛsU
H
s +UzΛzU
H
z
(12)
where Λs and Λz are two diagonal matrices whose diagonal
elements are the eigenvalues of Rˆr arranged in a descending
order. That is, we have λ1 ≥ λ2 ≥ · · · ≥ λQ. Moreover,
Us and Uz are the eigenvectors of Rˆr, corresponding to Λs
and Λz , respectively. Let Qm(e
j2pif ) denotes vH(f)um and
define a function Rmusic(e
j2pif ) with f as a variable:
Rmusic(e
j2pif ) = 1
Q∑
m=Nc+1
|Qm(ej2pif )|
2
= 1
|vH(f)UzUHz v
H(f)|2
(13)
where v(f) =
[
1, ej2pif , · · · , ej2pi(Q−1)f ]T and um is themth
eigenvector of Rˆr. For the MUSIC algorithm, the multiple
CFOs are estimated by finding the Nc largest values of
Rmusic(e
j2pif ) through one-dimensional search. The other
method is to apply the root-MUSIC algorithm for estimating
multiple CFOs. In this algorithm, we first find the Nc roots
of a function Rroot-music(z) which are closest to and inside
the unit circle, and the function is given by
Rroot-music(z) =
Q∑
m=Nc+1
Qm(z)Q
∗
m(
1
z∗
) (14)
where Qm(z) is the z-transform of Qm(e
j2pif ) and
Rroot-music(z) is the z-transform of the denominator of
the function Rmusic(e
j2pif ). The multiple CFOs are then
estimated by calculating the phases of these Nc roots. After
executing the MUSIC and root-MUSIC algorithms, we can
get the Nc effective CFOs, denoted by θm =
ξm
Q , for
θm ∈ (−0.5, 0.5) and m = 0, 1, · · ·Nc − 1. According to (8),
Fig. 3. Refined CFO mapping method (Method II).
we can know that after MUSIC and root-MUSIC estimation,
the estimated phase θm and the normalized CFOs ξm are with
the relationship ξm = θm · Q. We also know from (8) that
the choice of Q in (4) is very important as it could affect
the affordable estimation range and accuracy of the multiple
CFOs. It is noted that no matter how many CFOs need to be
estimated, the complexity of two proposed methods is almost
identical since the MUSIC and root-MUSIC algorithms are
able to estimate multiple CFOs at the same time, whereas the
complexity for the conventional CFO estimation method [9]
strongly depend on the number of CFOs to be estimated.
B. Two CFOs Mapping Methods
After executing MUSIC of root-MUSIC algorithms, the next
step is to identify which estimated CFOs belong to which
component carriers.
1) Method I: Since the preamble signals are constructed
from the orthogonal Hadamard sequences, we can identify
the estimated CFO belonging to which component carriers
via computing the Nc cross-correlation functions between the
received preamble signals and the transmitted preamble signals
with different CFO compensation. Then, the CFO is mapped
to a particular component carrier by finding the one with the
maximum peak value of the cross-correlation functions. The
correlation functions can be calculated as
D(m, l) = {rm(n)}⊗
{
e−
j2piξl
N
n · x∗m(n)
}
, l = 0, 1, · · ·Nc−1
(15)
where m is the component carrier index, rm(n) is the received
signal for the mth component carrier, and (·)∗ takes the
conjugate operation. Finally, the normalized CFO ξl for the
mth carrier component can be inferred from the maximum of
|D(m, l)|, for l = 0, · · · , Nc − 1.
2) Method II: Since each estimated CFO can only belong
to one component carrier, the Method I has an incidence to
map an estimated CFO to two or more component carriers due
show that our proposed methods work well in multipath fading
channels.
REFERENCES
[1] F. Meucci, O. Cabral, F. J. Velez, A. Mihovska, and N. R. Prasad, “Spec-
trum aggregation with multi-band user allocation over two frequency
bands,” in Proc. IEEE Mobile WiMAX Symp., Oct. 2010, pp. 81-86.
[2] G. Yuan, X. Zhang, W. Wang, and Y. Yang, “Carrier aggregation for
LTE-advanced mobile communication systems,” IEEE Commun. Mag.,
vol. 48, no. 2, pp.88-93, Feb. 2010.
[3] L. Kusheng, and D. K. Irick, “Collaborative spectrum sensing in cog-
nitive radio vehicular ad hoc networks: belief propagation on highway,”
in Proc. IEEE Veh. Technol. Conf., May 2010, pp. 1-5.
[4] K. Fawaz, A. Ghandour, M. Olleik, and H. Artail, “Improving reliability
of safety applications in vehicle ad hoc networks through the implemen-
tation of a cognitive network,” in Proc. IEEE Telecommun. Int. Conf.,
May 2010, pp. 798-805.
[5] M.-D. Felice, K. R. Chowdhury, and L. Bononi, “Analyzing the potential
of cooperative cognitive radio technology on inter-vehicle communica-
tion,” IEEE Int. Fed. Inf. Process. Wireless Days Conf., Dec. 2010, pp.1-
6.
[6] M. Iwamura, K. Etemad, M.-H. Fong, R. Nory, and R. Love, “Carrier
aggregation framework in 3GPP LTE-advanced [WiMAX/LTE update],”
IEEE Commun. Mag., vol.48, no.8, pp.66-67, Aug. 2010.
[7] J.-C. Lin, “Maximum-likelihood frame timing instant and frequency
offset estimation for OFDM communication over a fast rayleigh-fading
channel,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol.52, no.4, pp.1049-1062, Jul.
2003.
[8] J.-C. Lin, “Coarse frequency-offset acquisition via subcarrier differential
detection for OFDM communications,” IEEE Trans. Commun., vol.54,
no.8, pp.1415-1426, Aug. 2006.
[9] X. Zhang, H.-G Ryu, and J.-U. Kim, “Suppression of synchronization
errors in OFDM based carrier aggregation system,” in Proc. IEEE Asia-
Pacific Conf. Commun., Jan. 2011, pp.106-111.
[10] S. M. Kay, Modern Spectral estimation: theory and application, NJ:
Prentice-Hall, 1988.
 2
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
無 
 
四、建    議 
無 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
會議論文 CD 
會議議程 
 
六、其    他 
無 
 
for every primary system [7]. Compared with the ED, the
cyclo-stationary detection in [8] which exploits the periodic
statistics of a signal is more complex, but it can be used
to detect a random signal with a particular modulation type
at very low SNR. Eigenvalue-based detection is another at-
tractive spectrum sensing technique since it is robust to the
noise uncertainty problem by whitening the received signals.
This method is however computationally prohibitive because
of the need to perform eigenvalue decomposition. Higher-
order statistics (HOS)-based spectrum sensing [9] is a statistic
approach which can effectively separate noise from received
signals by calculating the relevant higher-order statistics and
can be operated at extremely low SNR regions, whereas it
often requires lots of data records to obtain the accurate
estimates of the relevant statistics, resulting in a longer sensing
time. As a result, the HOS-based spectrum sensing methods
cannot be directly applied for practical implementation.
In this paper, we investigate a low-complexity HOS-based
spectrum sensing method, where the idea of sequential test
detector is used to improve the sensing time. Since the third-
and-higher order cumulants of Gaussian processes are zeros,
we first calculate the cumulants of the received signals to
effectively conquer the Gaussian noise effect. Based on these
calculated cumulants, a binary hypothesis testing problem is
formulated, followed by a low-complexity sequential probabil-
ity ratio test (SPRT) for fast detecting underutilized spectrum.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. The HOS
are reviewed in Section II. Section III describes the system
model for CR spectrum sensing. In Section IV, we formulate
the spectrum sensing problem into a binary hypothesis testing
based on the calculated cumulants and develop an SPRT
detector. Simulate results are discussed in Section V. Finally,
some concluding remarks are drawn in Section VI.
II. REVIEW OF HIGHER-ORDER STATISTICS
In this section, we provide an overview of the conventional
higher-order statistical analysis (HOSA). Higher-order statis-
tics have been applied to many different fields such as image
processing, pattern recognition, e.t.c. In general, the use of
the first-order and second-order statistics plays an important
role in analyzing random signals. However, many signals,
especially when it comes to non-linearity, cannot be examined
properly by merely taking into account their second-order
statistics.
Most ofHOS sensing methods are performed in frequency
domain through the use of Fourier transform pairs. By in-
specting the power spectral density of signals in frequency
domain, the kth-order spectrum can be calculated by the
(k − 1)-dimensional Fourier transformation of the kth-order
cumulant. For example, the well-known third-order spectrum,
or called bi-spectrum, is the third-order cumulant represented
in frequency domain.
In statistic theory, the HOSA is recognized as a powerful
tool to describe the characteristics of signals. There are two
basic statistics: moment and cumulant, and the cumulants
are widely adopted to measure the characteristics of different
distributions. If the two random variables X and Y have the
same cumulant-generating functions, i.e., KX(t) = KY (t), the
two random variables are associated with the same distribution
function, i.e., FX(x) = FY (x). In other words, each kind
of distribution function is with a unique cumulant generating
function. Let E
[
etX
]
be the moment-generating function of
a random variable X generated from a distribution function
FX(x). The cumulants of the random variable X can be de-
fined through Taylor expansion of the corresponding cumulant-
generating function KX(t) at the origin as follows [10]:
KX(t) = log
[
E
[
etX
]]
=
∞∑
n=1
κn
tn
n!
(1)
κn =
dn
dtn
KX(t)|t=0 (2)
where κn is defined as the nth-order cumulant. Since every
distribution function has a unique cumulant generating func-
tion, we can easily distinguish any two distribution functions
by observing their cumulants. In Table I, we list five com-
monly used distribution functions including Normal, uniform,
Poisson, exponential, and Bernoulli, etc. In particular, we
can find that for the Gaussian distribution, the cumulant-
generating function can be represented as an finite second-
order polynomial function, and the third-order or higher-order
cumulants are all zeros.
TABLE I
PROPERTIES OF HOS
r.v. cumulant-generating function cumulants
Normal µt +
t2σ2
2
κ1 = µ,κ2 = σ2,κ3 = 0
Uniform
etb − eta
t(b − 1)
κn =
βn
n
Poisson (et − 1)λ κn = λ
Exponential − log(1 − λt) κn = λn(r − 1)!
Bernoulli log [1− pi + pi exp(t)] κ1 = pi,κ2 = pi(1− pi),
κ3 = 2pi3 − 3pi2 + pi
III. CR SYSTEM MODEL
Fig. 1. Cognitive Radio Network
In Fig. 1, we describe a CR system model in which SUs are
endowed with the spectrum sensing capability to opportunis-
tically utilize the vacant spectrum when the PU is inactive in
sensing time. Define the log-likelihood ratio (LLR) of the kth
estimated third-order cumulant as
ξk = log
p(κˆrk
3
|H1)
p(κˆrk
3
|H0)
(10)
From (10), the LLR for receiving q×M observation samples
is given by
Λq =
q∑
k=1
ξk (11)
Therefore, the decision rule for the proposed spectrum sensing
method is given by [13]:

Λq ≥ η1, accept H1
Λq ≤ η0, accept H0
η1 ≥ Λq ≥ η0, taking another sample
. (12)
where the two thresholds η1 and η0 of SPRT could be
derived from the targeted false alarm probability α and miss
probability β as follows:
η1 ≤
1− β
α
(13)
η0 ≥
β
1− α
, (14)
Fig. 2 summarizes the detailed procedures of our proposed
spectrum sensing method, and Fig. 3 shows the frame structure
for the SUs. The SU first senses the signals rm and calculates
the first-order and the third-order cumulants of the received
signals (i.e., κˆr
1
and κˆr
3
) for every block of M observation
samples, as shown in Fig.3 . According to the estimated
cumulants, the SPRT is adopted for sequential hypothesis
testing to decide whether the spectrum band is occupied by
the primary user or not. If the accumulated LLR in (11) is
larger than the upper threshold η1, we consider that the PU
is active, and the SU is not allowed to use the subsequent
transmission interval and it must stay quiet and wait until the
next time slot starts. If the accumulated LLR is smaller than
η0, we decide that the spectrum is not occupied by the PU, and
the SU is allowed for data transmission. Otherwise, another
block of M observation samples is taken for spectrum sensing
until the accumulated LLR falls outside the interval of the two
thresholds η0 and η1.
V. SIMULATION
Table II lists the values of simulation parameters. The
adopted modulation types are 8PSK, 16QAM, and 4QAM.
The number of observation samples for each block could
be 1, 000, 5, 000, and 10, 000. The number of Monte Carlo
simulation is set as 10, 000. The channel fading varies slowly
with Doppler frequency given by 27Hz, and the sample period
is set as 90 nanoseconds. Here, we use the spectrum utilization
rate, as proposed in [15], for evaluating the spectrum sensing
performance. For a targeted detection probability Pd, the
spectrum utilization rate under the condition that the PU is
inactive can be simply calculated from the false probability
Fig. 2. Sensing flowchart for the proposed method
Fig. 3. Frame structure for spectrum sensing
and given by 1−Pfa. Finally, the conventional ED is adopted
for comparisons in our simulation.
Fig. 4 shows the detection probability Pd versus SNR at
Pfa = 0.05 with the block size M = 5, 000. Depending on
different types of modulation schemes, the proposed method
has different detection probabilities under a given SNR value.
This is because different modulation schemes have different
inherent third-order cumulant values. We can observe that the
two QAM modulation schemes both perform better than the
8PSK scheme. Moreover, the proposed method has superior
performance gains over the ED especially for the low SNR
regimes.
Fig. 5 shows the detection probability Pd versus the false
alarm probability Pfa at SNR= 0dB with the block size
M = 5000. As can be observed, the conventional ED does
not perform very well under such a low-SNR environment.
As compared with the ED, our proposed method can sense
the vacant spectrum very precisely for a targeted detection
probability Pd = 0.9 if the block size is large enough. If Pfa
is larger than 0.55, our proposed method can almost detect the
occupied spectrum with probability one, i.e., Pd = 1.
Fig. 6 shows the spectrum utilization rate versus SNR for
−30 −25 −20 −15 −10 −5 0
0.52
0.53
0.54
0.55
0.56
0.57
0.58
0.59
SNR (dB)
Sp
ec
tru
m
 u
tili
za
tio
n 
ra
te
 fo
r 8
PS
K
 
 
M=10000
M=5000
M=100
Fig. 7. Spectrum utilization rate for 8PSK at Pd = 0.9 for various block
sizes
[3] L. Husheng, and D. K. Irick, ”Collaborative spectrum sensing in cog-
nitive radio vehicular ad hoc networks: belief propagation on highway,”
in Proc. IEEE Vehicular Technology Conference, pp.1-5, May 2010.
[4] M. D. Felice, K. R. Chowdhury, and L. Bononi, ”Analyzing the potential
of cooperative cognitive radio technology on inter-vehicle communica-
tion,” in Proc. Wireless Days, pp.1-6, Oct. 2010.
[5] F. F. Digham, M. S. Alouini, and M. K. Simon, “On the energy detection
of unknown signals over fading channels,” IEEE Trans. Commun. ,
vol.55, no.1, pp.21-24, Jan. 2007.
[6] T. Yucek and H. Arslan, “A survey of spectrum sensing algorithms
for cognitive radio applications,” IEEE Commun. Mag., vol.11, no.1,
pp.116-130, First Quarter 2009.
[7] D. Cabric, S. M. Mishra, and R. W. Brodersen, “Implementation issues
in spectrum sensing for cognitive radios,” in Proc. Asilomar Conf. on
Signals, Systems, and Computers, pp.772-776, Nov. 2004.
[8] A. Ghasemi, and E. S. Sousa, “Spectrum sensing in cognitive radio net-
works: requirements, challenges and design trade-offs,” IEEE Commun.
Mag., vol.46, no.4, pp.32-39, Apr. 2008.
[9] G. B. Giannakis and M. K. Tsatsanus, ”Signal detection and classifica-
tion using matched filtering and higher order statistics,” IEEE Trans.
Acoust., Speech, Signal Process., vol.38. no.7. Jul. 1990.
[10] Y. P. Lin, C. He, L. G. Jiang, and D. He, ”A spectrum sensing method
in cognitive radio based on the third order cyclic cumulant,” in Proc.
IEEE International Conference on Wireless Communications and Signal
Processing, 2009.
[11] A. Swami and B. M. Salder, ”Hierarchical digital modulation classifi-
cation using cumulants,” IEEE, Trans. Comm., pp.416-429, 2000.
[12] B. M. Sadler, ”Sequential detection using high order statistics,” in
Proc. IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal
Processing, IEEE, Apr. 1991.
[13] A. Wald, ”Sequential Tests of Statistical Hypotheses,” Ann. of Math.
Stat., vol. 16. no. 2. pp. 122-141, Jun. 1945.
[14] J. C. Lin, ”Noncoherent SPRT-based acquisition scheme for DSSS,”
IEEE Electron. Lett., vol.34, no.13, pp.1290-1291, 25 Jun. 1998.
[15] Meng-Lin Ku, Qingchun Chen, S.S. Ghassemzadeh, V. Tarokh, and
Li-Chun Wang, ” Service coverage for cognitive radio networks with
cooperative relays in shadowed hotspot areas,” in Proc. IEEE Wireless
Communications and Networking Conference, pp. 1759-1764, 28-31
Mar. 2011.
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/24
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 正交分頻多工行動通訊之蜂巢搜尋與通道檢估技術研究
計畫主持人: 林嘉慶
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-008-038- 學門領域: 通訊
無研發成果推廣資料
Meng-Lin 
Ku, ’MUSIC-Based 
Multiple CFOs 
Estimation Methods 
for CA-OFDM 
Systems,’ IEEE Int. 
11th ITS Telecommun. 
Cof. &amp； TRxITS 
Workshop 2011, to 
appear, St. 
Petersburg, Russia, 
22-25 Aug., 2011. 
Hsing-yi Hsieh, 
Han-Kui Chang, and 
Meng-Lin 
Ku, ’Higher-Order 
Statistics Based 
Sequential Spectrum 
Sensing for 
Cognitive Radio,’ 
IEEE Int. 11th ITS 
Telecommun. Cof. 
&amp ； TRxITS 
Workshop 2011, to 
appear, St. 
Petersburg, Russia, 
22-25 Aug., 2011. 
專書 4 4 100%   Jia-Chin Lin, ’
Recent Advances in 
Wireless 
Communications and 
Networks, ’
published by InTech, 
August 2011, ISBN: 
978-953-307-274-6.
 Kao-Peng Chou and 
Jia-Chin Lin, ’ A 
Study of 
Cramer-Rao-Like 
Bounds and Their 
Applications to 
Wi l
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 8 8 100% 
碩士畢業論文 
 莊文雄：放大轉送
中繼站網路正交分頻
多工通道估測技術
(OFDM Channel 
Estimation 
Techniques for 
Amplify-and-forward 
Relay Networks) 
 施博淦：應用高階
統計之特徵法自動調
變 辨 識 技 術 (A 
Feature-Based 
Automatic 
Modulation 
Classification 
Technique Using 
High-Order 
Statistics) 
 張靜宜：先進長程
演進系統中載波聚合
技 術 的 初 始 同 步
(Initial 
Synchronization in 
Carrier Aggregation 
Scenarios Applied on 
LTE-A 
Communications) 
 謝馨儀：應用於感
知無線電之序列式高
階統計量頻譜偵測
(Higher-Order 
Statistics Based 
Sequential Spectrum 
Sensing for 
Cognitive Radio) 
 
博士生 4 4 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
