 2
一、中、英文摘要及關鍵詞(keywords)： 
本計畫主要在於進行具內建天線之系統封裝研發(Antennas in system in 
package, AiSiP)，可應用天線包含印刷天線、金屬片天線、超寬頻天線、複合式
天線等。這些天線可以被內建於一系統封裝中，使得整個系統封裝適合直接應用
於無線通訊產品上，不需另外進行外加天線之設計。該些天線預定設計於 2.4 GHz 
WLAN 頻帶(2400~2484 MHz)之操作，其頻寬、效率必須符合 WLAN 之操作需
求，同時該系統封裝設計之尺寸應小於 25 × 25 mm2，其中天線尺寸應小於 7 × 7 
mm2，而系統模組部份則應小於 18 × 18 mm2，且該系統封裝對於應用在不同無
線通訊產品上之不同位置時，必須具有穩定之操作頻寬，以達成最大之實際應用
價值。 
 
關鍵詞：印刷天線、金屬片天線、超寬頻天線、複合式天線、無線區域網路天線、
全球微波存取互通系統天線、系統封裝 
 
 
     This project is aimed to perform the study on antennas integrated in a system in 
package (AiSiP). The promising antennas such as the printed antennas, metal-plate 
antennas, UWB antennas, composite antennas are to be built-in inside the system in 
package. In this case, no additional antenna design is required when the AiSiP is used 
in practical applications. The desired operating bands in this study include the 2.4 
GHz WLAN band (2400~2484 MHz). The dimensions of the AiSiP should be less 
than 25 × 25 mm2, and the antenna portion is expected to occupy a size less than 7 × 7 
mm2, with that of the system modules less than 18 × 18 mm2. This project can provide 
useful design information for future applications of the AiSiP.  
 
Keywords: Printed antennas, metal-plate antennas, UWB antennas, composite 
antennas, system in package (SiP), WLAN antennas, WiMAX antennas 
 4
三、研究成果 
Wideband Printed Monopole Antenna Integrated in a System in 
Package 
    
ABSTRACT: A promising design of integrating a wideband printed monopole 
antenna in a system in package (AiSiP) for WLAN operation in the 2.4 GHz band is 
presented. The antenna is an inverted-F monopole antenna printed on the no-ground 
portion (6 × 18 mm2) of the module substrate of the AiSiP (total size 24 × 18 mm2). A 
parasitic shorted strip can also be added in the no-ground portion to double the 
operating bandwidth of the AiSiP. When mounted on the system ground plane of a 
wireless device, the AiSiP can provide a complete communication function, without 
the need of employing additional antennas in the wireless device. The proposed AiSiP 
is studied in the paper, and obtained results of the constructed prototype are presented. 
Effects of the system ground plane on the antenna performance of the AiSiP are also 
analyzed. 
 
1. Introduction 
The conventional system in package (SiP) for application in a wireless device requires 
an external antenna for providing a complete function for wireless communications. 
To enhance the function of the SiP for wireless communications, it has become very 
attractive to develop the SiP with embedded antennas. To achieve this goal, several 
design techniques of integrating antennas in the integrated-circuit package or 
front-end module package can be applied. These design techniques include mounting 
the patch antenna on the top above the circuitry or module in the package or 
integrating the metal-plate monopole antenna to the shielding metal case in the 
package. The former technique in general leads to an increase in the overall height of 
the package, and in addition, it is usually difficult to achieve a wide operating 
bandwidth for the antenna. For the latter technique, the proposed metal-plate 
monopole antenna integrated in the package is suitable for the 5 GHz band operation. 
For lower frequency operation such as the WLAN (Wireless Local Area Network) 
 6
a reasonable size of the practical SiP. The antenna is a printed inverted-F monopole 
antenna printed on the no-ground portion (6 × 18 mm2) of the module substrate of the 
AiSiP (total size 24 × 18 mm2). Note that for practical applications, the printed 
monopole antenna or the no-ground portion of the AiSiP should be protruded from the 
ground plane of the wireless device (see the configuration shown in Fig. 2). In this 
case, since the protruded no-ground portion is with a small length of 6 mm only, the 
proposed AiSiP is promising to be concealed within the housing of the wireless device 
as an internal element, by slightly modifying the housing to accommodate the 
protruded portion of the AiSiP. 
The printed inverted-F monopole antenna is operated as a quarter-wavelength 
structure, and its operating principle is similar to that discussed. The monopole 
antenna is shorted to the module ground plane at point B (the shorting point), and the 
antenna has a uniform strip width of 1 mm. The mean length of the antenna’s 
radiating strip, starting from point A (the feeding point) to the open end of the 
radiating strip, is about 22 mm, which is about 0.18 wavelength of the desired center 
operating frequency at 2442 MHz (center frequency of the 2.4 GHz band for WLAN 
operation). Note that the antenna’s radiating strip is less than a quarter-wavelength at 
2442 MHz; this is mainly due to the substrate effect, which leads to a decreased 
resonant length for quarter-wavelength operation. In addition, the open end of the 
antenna’s radiating strip is bent into an inverted-L shape to achieve a compact 
structure for the antenna. 
Fig. 2 shows the configuration of the proposed AiSiP mounted on the system 
ground plane of a wireless device of size L × L, which is printed on a 0.8 mm thick 
FR4 substrate in this study. In the figure, the AiSiP is flushed to the left edge of the 
system ground plane of the wireless device, and the distance of the AiSiP to the right 
edge of the system ground plane is denoted as t in this study. Notice that there are four 
via-holes in the substrates of the AiSiP and the wireless device to connect the module 
ground plane to the wireless device ground plane. To test the AiSiP in this study, a 50 
Ω mini coaxial line is used across the 0.5 mm wide feed gap between the feeding 
point and the module ground plane of the AiSiP. 
The wireless device ground plane with a side length of 30 mm (that is, L = 30 
 8
3. Proposed AiSiP with an Integrated Inverted-F Monopole Antenna and a 
Parasitic Shorted Strip 
In order to achieve a widened operating bandwidth for the proposed AiSiP, a parasitic 
shorted strip is added in close proximity to the printed inverted-F monopole antenna 
(see the configuration shown in Fig. 6). Notice that the parasitic shorted strip has a 
uniform width of 0.5 mm, and is of a folded structure to achieve a compact size. In 
this case, the added parasitic shorted strip can be fit into the no-ground portion (6 × 18 
mm2) of the AiSiP, without increasing the occupied area of the embedded antenna. 
Also note that the mean length of the parasitic shorted strip is about 19 mm, slightly 
less than that of the radiating strip of the inverted-F monopole antenna. Hence, it is 
expected that the parasitic shorted strip can contribute an additional resonant mode 
close to the original resonant mode of the inverted-F monopole antenna to form into a 
much widened operating bandwidth for the AiSiP. 
The proposed AiSiP in Fig. 6 mounted on the wireless device with a ground 
plane size of 60 × 60 mm2 (L = 60 mm) was constructed and tested. Fig. 7 shows the 
measured return loss for t = 42 mm. The definition of t is the same as given in Fig. 2, 
and for t = 42 mm, the AiSiP is flushed to the left edge of the wireless device ground 
plane. The measured data are generally in agreement with the simulated results, and 
two resonant modes are excited with good impedance matching. Note that the 
resonant mode with higher frequencies is contributed by the parasitic shorted strip, 
while that with lower frequencies is generated by the inverted-F monopole antenna. 
The two resonant modes are formed into a wide bandwidth of 470 MHz (2230 ~ 2700 
MHz), about 2.5 times that (188 MHz) of the AiSiP with the inverted-F monopole 
antenna studied in Fig. 3. 
The dependence of the obtained bandwidth on the relative position t is also 
studied. Fig. 8 shows the measured return loss as a function of t for the AiSiP studied 
in Fig. 7. In the figure, five curves of t varied from 0 to 42 mm are presented. Note 
that, for t = 0 and 42 mm, the AiSiP is flushed to the right edge and left edge of the 
wireless device ground plane, respectively. It is interesting to see that the lower or the 
original resonant mode of the AiSiP is greatly affected by the variation in the relative 
position t. On the other hand, the effects on the higher or the additional resonant mode 
 10
wireless device ground plane are easily covered. In addition, good radiation 
characteristics over the operating bandwidth of the AiSiP have been observed. With 
these attractive antenna performances obtained, the proposed AiSiP is very promising 
for application in the wireless device to provide a complete communication function, 
without the external antennas required. 
 
Figure Captions 
1. Configuration of the proposed antenna integrated in a system in package (AiSiP); 
the plastic packaging of the AiSiP is not shown in the figure. 
2. Configuration of the proposed AiSiP mounted on the system ground plane of a 
wireless device. 
3. Measured and simulated return loss of the AiSiP in Fig. 2; t = 12 mm, L = 30 mm. 
4. Measured return loss as a function of t for the AiSiP in Fig. 2 with L = 30 mm. 
5. Measured return loss as a function of t for the AiSiP in Fig. 2 with L = 60 mm. 
6. Configuration of the printed inverted-F monopole antenna with a parasitic shorted 
strip in the AiSiP shown in Fig. 1. 
7. Measured and simulated return loss of the AiSiP in Fig. 6 mounted on the 
wireless device ground plane shown in Fig. 2 with L = 60 mm; t = 42 mm. 
8. Measured return loss as a function of t for the AiSiP studied in Fig. 7. 
9. Measured radiation patterns at 2300 MHz for the AiSiP studied in Fig. 7. 
10. Measured radiation patterns at 2442 MHz for the AiSiP studied in Fig. 7. 
11. Measured radiation patterns at 2600 MHz for the AiSiP studied in Fig. 7. 
12. Measured antenna gain and simulated radiation efficiency of the AiSiP studied in 
Fig. 7. 
 
 
 
 12
Figure 3 
   
 
  
Figure 4 
   
   
   
 
   
 
 14
Figure 7 
     
 
   
Figure 8 
   
   
 
    
    
 16
Figure 11 
 
    
 Figure 12 
   
 
  
四、結論 
本項“具內建天線之系統封裝(AiSiP)”計畫，在主持人及其研究團隊現
有豐富的研究成果及經驗下，已順利完成。相關之研究成果對於未來 AiSiP
之應用上將可提供許多有用之資訊。
