 2
合作企業簡介 
 
合作企業名稱：優貝克科技股份有限公司 
 
計畫聯絡人：吳 東 嶸 (技術研發處處長) 
 
資本額：新台幣 4,186 萬元 
 
產品簡介：真空熱處理爐及解爐等冶金設備、真空冷凍乾燥真空幫浦及測定
裝置、半導體製造機器、真空蒸著裝置、薄膜製造裝置。 
 
網址：http://www.ulvac.com.tw/ 、電話：(02)88661700轉 31 
 
研究摘要(500字以內)： 
 
本計畫依 ITO薄膜之導電機制及過去相關研究成果，分二階段來完成可
應用於 OLED/PLED之高函數 ITO薄膜開發。吾人首先在 ITO薄膜的製程
當中，改變其相關參數，希望能經由這些參數改變 ITO薄膜的載子濃度
(carrier concentration)，因而使其費米能階(Fermi Level ,EF)的位置改變，進
而達到控制功函數的目標。其次尋找其它的高功函數異質材料，摻入 ITO薄
膜中，並改變不同的材料及摻雜濃度，以期也能達到提昇 ITO薄膜功函數的
效果，最後應用以上的研究結果，找出提昇功函數的最有效方法，並將研發
出的高功函數 ITO薄膜實地應用於 OLED元件上，由於電洞注入時的能障
己降低，故能改善 OLED元件的整體效能。 
 
人才培育成果說明： 
 
1. 光電元件之設計、半導體元件製程及光電特性測試技術； 
2. 材料結晶品質之測試技術與分析技術，並訓練熟悉的半導體製程人才。 
 
技術研發成果說明： 
 
[1] 以直流電源濺鍍(DC power sputter)系統於玻璃基板上，成長 ITO透明導
電薄膜，並控制其氧氣流量、錫摻雜量等製程參數。 
[2] 對所成長之透明導電薄膜，作「薄膜特性分析比較」，即利用四點探針測
量膜面電阻值、以光譜儀測量其透光率、用霍爾系統量測其載子濃度與移
動率、且以下圖之光電子偵測儀 AC-2量測其功函數。 
[3] 綜合上述分析結果，建構製程參數對 ITO載子濃度和功函數影響的理論模
型。 
[4] 在玻璃基板上成長 ITO 薄膜且應用於 OLED 元件(其結構為：玻璃基板
/ITO/TPD/Alq3/Al)之最佳製程製作。 
[5] 量測步驟 4之元件特性，如驅動電壓、發光效率等。 
[6] 建構 ITO功函數特性對 OLED元件的效能影響之理論模型。 
 
 4
1、 Introduction: 
Indium tin oxide (ITO) films are highly degenerated wide band gap semiconductors 
with relatively low resistivity and a high transmittance in visible range of the spectrum. 
ITO films are widely used in optoelectronic applications, such as solar cells, transparent 
electrodes in liquid crystal displays (LCDs), ferroelectric photo-conducting storage 
devices, and organic light emitting devices (OLEDs)1. Fig.1 shows the OLED structure, 
as a example, in which the ITO is used as a transparent anode to inject holes into the 
highest occupied molecular orbits (HOMO) of the organic semiconductors due to its high 
work function (about 4.6-4.8 eV). The work function of ITO or Fermi energy is very 
critical to the performance of OLED devices. A change in work function of ITO will 
therefore lead to a change in the holes injection barrier height at the interface of ITO with 
the organic semiconductors as shown in Fig.2. The interfacial barrier height plays a 
critical role in many key device parameters, such as operating voltage2-5 etc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig1: Structure of OLED 
 The work functions of ITO are known to be sensitive to surface conditions. Because 
of its critical importance in device performance, a number of literature reports described 
the result of various forms of surface modification of ITO by annealing, UV-ozone, wet 
chemical, oxygen plasma treatment. These previous work indicates that oxygen plasma 
treatment and UV-ozone are known as the most effective technique in increasing the ITO 
work function6-8. However, this treatment of the surface is not a stable state, since the 
work function will decay as time and it is hard to control. 
Thus in order to get a stable with controllable work function, according to the 
mechanism of ITO conductivity9 , we report the way to adjust ITO work function by 
changing the sputtering gas flow in this work.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.2: Anode with high work function can reduce the holes injection barrier height. 
 6
3、 Results and Discussion: 
3.1 Work function: 
Fig.4 gives the work function of ITO films fabricated at different O2 flow. As the O2 
flow is increased from 0 to 2 sccm, the work function of films shows a great increasing 
(from 4.66 to 4.91 eV). After that, the work function of films does not show clear 
variation when the O2 flow is increased from 4 to 12 sccm, and then showed a great 
increase as the O2 flow is further increasing. But we found out when O2 flow is higher 
than 13 cm, the work function of films no longer increases greatly as the O2 flow 
increased further. This phenomenon can be explained by the following theories. It is well 
known that an O2 vacancy can donate two free electrons for conduction. So it serves as 
electron donors in ITO films, the films in this work were fabricated at the same conditions 
except for the O2 flow. So it could be suggested that the variation of electron 
concentration were completely attributed to the concentration of the O2 vacancies. 
Following this assumption, we expect lower electron concentration for ITO films with 
comparatively higher O2 flow. It is well known that the Fermi level is function of electron 
concentration. So the distance between Fermi level and Vacuum level could become 
controllable through this way. That means the work function of ITO films should increase 
as the O2 flow is increased, but the work function will be saturated at a specific value. 
Since the increasing O2 will fill all O2 vacancies. Therefore, the concentration of O2 
vacancies will not increase as O2 flow is further increasing. Under this kind of mechanism, 
the specific work function shows a maximum at a certain O2 flow. This analysis is in good 
agreement with the results obtained from work function measurements shown in Fig.4. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.4: The relation between work function and O2 flow. A maximum work function 
of 5.05 eV is achieved as O2 flow increased from 0 to 16 sccm . 
 
 
