 2
 
 
 
The following project report is the same as the project report required by 國科會工程處控制學門 
95 年度專題計畫成果發表會 at CACS2007 國際自動控制研討會. We were told by 國科會工程處控制
學門 that  
 
The project report contains two separate reports: 
□ Playful Tray: Adopting Persuasive Technology for Healthy Eating Behavior in Young Children 
□ Nutrition-Aware Kitchen: Enabling Healthy Cooking 
 
 
 
Below are our publication results from this project: 
 
2007  
• Chuang-wen You, Polly Huang, Hao-hua Chu, Yi-Chao Chen, Ji-Rung Chiang, Seng-Yong Lau, 
“Sensor-Enhanced Mobility Prediction for Energy-Efficient Localization,” Ad Hoc Networks, 
To Appear, Nov. 2007. 
• Hao-hua Chu, Jane Yung-jen Hsu, Polly Huang, "iCare project: adopting pervasive and 
persuasive computing for assisted cognition," Workshop on Intelligent Systems for Assisted 
Cognition, Rochester, New York, October 2007.  
• Jin-Ling Lo, Tung-yun Lin, Hao-hua Chu, Hsi-Chin Chou, Jen-hao Chen, Jane Yung-jen Hsu, 
Polly Huang, "Playful tray: adopting Ubicomp and persuasive techniques into play-based 
occupational therapy for reducing poor eating behavior in young children," in Proceedings of 
the 9th International Conference on Ubiquitous Computing (UBICOMP 2007), Innsbruck, Austria, 
September 2007, pp 38-55. [acceptance rate 19%]  
• Hao-ji Wu, Ho-lin Chang, Chuang-wen You, Hao-hua Chu, Polly Huang, "Modeling and 
optimizing positional accuracy based on hyperbolic geometry for the adaptive radio 
interferometric positioning system," in Proceedings of 3rd International Symposium on 
Location- and Context-Awareness (LOCA 2007) in cooperation with UBICOMP 2007, 
Oberpfaffenhofen, Germany, September 2007, pp 228-244. [acceptance rate 30%, nominated for 
the best paper award] 
• Yu-chen Chang, Chao-ju Huang, Jin-Ling Lo, Hao-hua Chu, "A Playful toothbrush to motivate 
proper brushing for young children," in the Demo session and Adjunct Proceedings of the 9th 
International Conference on Ubiquitous Computing (UBICOMP 2007), Innsbruck, Austria, 
September 2007.  
• Li-shan Wang, Sheng-hsiang Yu, Keng-hao Chang, Sue-huei Chen, Hao-hua Chu, "Collaborative, 
context-aware experience sampling for depressive patients," in the Late Breaking Results (LBR) 
session and Adjunct Proceedings of the 9th International Conference on Ubiquitous Computing 
(UBICOMP 2007), Innsbruck, Austria, September 2007.  
• Ju-Chun Ko, Yi-Ping Hung, Hao-hua Chu, "Mug-Tree: a playful mug to encourage healthy 
habit of drinking fluid regularly," in the Late Breaking Results (LBR) session and Adjunct 
Proceedings of the 9th International Conference on Ubiquitous Computing (UBICOMP 2007), 
Innsbruck, Austria, September 2007.  
• Shun-yuan Yeh, Keng-hao Chang, Chon-in Wu, Hao-hua Chu, Jane Yung-jen Hsu, "GETA 
sandals: a footstep location tracking system," Personal and Ubiquitous Computing Journal 
(PUC), Volume 11, Issue 6, August 2007, pp 451-463.  
• Pei-yu Chi, Jen-hao Chen, Shih-yen Liu, Hao-hua Chu, "Designing smart living objects - 
enhancing vs. distracting traditional human-object interaction," in Proceeding of the 12th 
International Conference on Human-Computer Interaction (HCII 2007), July 2007, pp 788-797. 
• Pei-yu Chi, Jen-hao Chen, Hao-hua Chu, Bing-Yu Chen, "Enabling nutrition-aware cooking in 
a smart kitchen," in ACM CHI 2007 extended abstract, April 2007, pp 2333-2338. (People's 
Choice Winner). (pdf)  
2006 
• Tung-yun Lin, Keng-hao Chang, Shih-yen Liu, Hao-hua Chu, "A persuasive game to encourage 
healthy dietary behaviors of young children," in Demo Session & Adjunct Proceedings of the 
Proceedings of 2007 CACS International Automatic Control Conference 
National Chung Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan, Nov. 9-11, 2007 
Playful Tray: Adopting Persuasive Technology for Healthy Eating 
Behavior in Young Children 
Hao-hua Chu1, Jane Yung-jen Hsu1, Polly Huang2 
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering1 
Department of Electrical Engineering2 
National Taiwan University 
 
Abstract—This study has created the Playful Tray that 
adopts Ubicomp and persuasive techniques into play-based 
occupational therapy for reducing poor eating behavior in 
young children after they reached their self-feeding age. 
The design of the Playful Tray reinforces active participa-
tion of children in the activity of eating by integrating 
digital play with eating. Results of a pilot user study suggest 
that the Playful Tray improves child meal completion time. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Recently, many Ubicomp researchers have been 
working on applying digital technology to modify human 
behavior [1] [2] [3]. This area is known as persuasive 
computing [4]. From a computing perspective, persua-
sive computing involves designing and developing 
digital technology that not only can automatically sense 
and track behavior, but can also engage people via in-
telligent interaction to motivate or influence their be-
havior. From an occupational therapist perspective, 
persuasive computing involves extending the reach of 
occupational therapists from their treatment clinic into 
the actual living environment of a client, enabling the 
therapists to utilize Ubicomp technology to implement 
an effective behavior intervention program at the place 
where the client’s target behavior occurs and when the 
treatment is most effective.  
This work targets mealtime behavior, one of the 
most frequently cited problems by parents of young 
children [5]. Despite nutritional concerns, spending ex-
cessive time to eat a meal affects the participation of 
children in daily school and family routines, and often 
contributes to negative parent-child interaction during 
mealtime [6]. For example, poor eating habits at home by 
children can cause stressful confrontations with parents, 
often taking the form of a power play involving mental 
persistence and pitting parental persuasion against un-
relenting refusal from the children. At school, children 
who eat lunch slowly are likely to experience frustration 
resulting from the disapproving looks of teachers or the 
scorn of their peers. Delayed meal completion may also 
reduce the time available to children to engage in af-
ter-lunch activities. To address this eating behavior issue, 
this study has designed and implemented the Playful 
Tray as a tool to assist occupational therapists and par-
ents in reducing poor eating behavior in young children. 
This tool can be used either at home or in school. A pilot 
user study where autistic and non-autistic children with 
mealtime problems participated suggested that the 
Playful Tray may improve child meal completion time 
when compared to traditional parental verbal persuasion. 
Results also suggest that the Playful Tray may reduce 
negative power play interactions between parents and 
children. 
 
   
 
Fig. 1. On the left, a young child is performing her imitation skit and not 
paying attention to eating her food. By the time her parents are done 
with their meals, her meal is hardly touched. By then, her parent will 
become angry with her. Her parent’s angry voice will also wipe out her 
appetite. On the right, this young child is actively eating to interact with 
the Playful Tray.  
 
 The Playful Tray is embedded with an interactive 
game played over a weight-sensitive tray surface, which 
can recognize and track the natural eating actions of 
children in real time. Child eating actions are then used 
as game inputs. As shown in Fig. 1, engaging children in 
this fun interactive game motivates the children to 
change their eating behavior. This design connects and 
integrates the fun part (coming from the digital game 
activity) with the activity of eating. We believe that this 
is the main reason why the Playful Tray may be effective 
in reducing poor eating behavior in young children. 
The tray design is based on learning theories and the 
key components of playfulness [7] [8], including intrin-
sic motivation, internal control, and suspension of reality 
described in more detail in Section 2. The design rein-
forces active participation of children in the activity of 
eating by integrating digital play with eating, thus mak-
ing mealtimes more enjoyable for both parents and 
children. Additionally, the flexibility of the digital game 
control enables occupational therapists to easily grade 
the challenge to match the ability of the child. For ex-
ample, changing the weight sensibility of the tray affects 
the size of the bites required to trigger a game response.  
Traditional eating behavior interventions depend 
heavily on parents actively modifying their behaviors 
and interactions with children during mealtimes [9]. For 
example, therapists seek to modify parent behaviors by 
teaching mealtime related parenting skills via didactic 
instruction, modeling, role playing, and behavioral re-
hearsal and structured home programs. We would like to 
clarify the intention of the Playful Tray is not to replace 
Proceedings of 2007 CACS International Automatic Control Conference 
National Chung Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan, Nov. 9-11, 2007 
ship. Therefore, this study targeted the second group of 
children and applied the play-based occupational therapy 
model to design a playful tray for them with the goal of 
improving their eating pace and reducing their maladap-
tive behavior. 
III. PLAYFUL TRAY DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS 
Based on the play-based occupational therapy 
model described above, this work has identified the fol-
lowing four main design considerations for the proposed 
playful tray: (1) attention split between game playing and 
eating activities, (2) enjoyment to encourage intrinsic 
motivation of children, (3) engagement to connect digital 
playfulness to active participation in the target activity of 
eating, and (4) control to give children choices in de-
termining game outcome.  
The first design consideration is the degree to which 
a child pays attention to the digital interaction. Since 
children need to focus their attention on feeding activity 
during mealtimes, introducing a digital game will inevi-
tably divert some of their attention away from the eating 
activity. Because the use of the digital game is intended 
to motivate active child participation in the eating activ-
ity, the digital game design should not draw too much 
attention away from the eating activity and thus lead to 
the undesirable result of digital playing overtaking or 
distracting eating. That is, a game design should bring in 
just enough digital interactivity to maintain the interest of 
children in the eating activity. The game thus should 
avoid fast-moving, excessively fancy animation or fre-
quent input and output.  
The second design consideration is enjoyment. The 
digital game activity must bring sufficient enjoyment and 
pleasure to children to attract their active participation in 
eating. Motivation to perform an activity usually comes 
from two sources: external rewards and enjoyment of the 
activity itself. External rewards mean the accompanying 
benefit of performing an activity. When the rewards 
seem unattractive to a person, he/she will feel a lack of 
motivation to participate in the activity. On the other 
hand, if an activity is playful, i.e., with high levels of the 
three elements of play, carrying out the activity itself will 
be enjoyable and self-reinforced rather than reinforced 
by external rewards [14]. This study used a game design 
based on self-reinforcement.  
The third design consideration is engagement. Since 
target users are young children and most young children 
are not capable of operating digital devices, the game 
design relies on using the natural eating actions of chil-
dren as game input. Because eating is the target activity, 
once children are attracted to the game, they find that 
they have to eat to continue playing. Through this en-
gagement design, this work links fun (from the digital 
game) with eating. 
The fourth design consideration is control. Control 
refers to the opportunities for children to make choices 
and decisions during a game. The game design allows 
children to choose from a selection of characters and 
determine their eating pace. 
Two further design considerations are presented 
below: 
 
y It is important to minimize the change on the lunch 
tableware accustomed to young children during 
their normal eating routines at home or in schools. 
Hiding digital components beneath a tray surface 
prevented the installed digital hardware from ad-
versely affecting the normal eating of the children.  
y Given the limited cognitive level of young children, 
the design of the interactive game must be simple 
enough for them to understand and attractive 
enough to maintain their attention.  
 
IV. PLAYFUL TRAY DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION  
The Racing Game Tray prototype is shown in Fig. 4. 
The dimensions of the tray are 33 cm x 31cm x 3.5cm. 
The top of the tray is embedded with a small palm-top PC 
containing a touch-screen LCD showing the racing game. 
The tray uses only one weighing sensor to detect child 
eating behavior. This weighing sensor is placed below 
the slightly lower rectangular area on the tray, and has a 
bowl positioned directly above it. The weighing sensor 
can detect and recognize child eating actions and the 
weight of food consumed from the bowl during each 
eating action. Since children are likely to touch all areas 
of the tray, the weight sensing area was just large enough 
to fit a bowl, minimizing the chance of touching of the 
tray interfering with the weight readings on the weight 
sensing area.  
 
Palm-top PC with touch screen 
Weight sensor and sensing 
surface 
For placing the 
bowl  
Fig. 4. The playful tray prototype, called the Racing Game Tray.  
 
The system architecture is shown in Fig. 5. Child 
eating activity was first sensed by the weight sensing 
surface, then recognized via the Weight Change Detector. 
The weight change detector performs one task: reporting 
Weight-Change events involving the food container by 
filtering out noises from the stream of weight samples. 
These weight change events include the amount (weight) 
of food consumed. A weight decrease event is generated 
each time the weight of the bowl decreases.  
 
Proceedings of 2007 CACS International Automatic Control Conference 
National Chung Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan, Nov. 9-11, 2007 
V. PILOT USER STUDY AND RESULT 
The participants in our pilot user study comprised 
four child-parent pairs. The four children were 4 to 7 
years old. All participants are Taiwanese living in Tai-
wan. These four child-parent pairs are referred to here as 
A, B, C, and D. Children A and B were diagnosed with 
Asperger’s syndrome, child C had high function autism, 
and child D had no specific diagnosis. The common 
complaint regarding mealtime for all parent participants 
was long meals, ranging from near 30 minutes to over 
one hour, after the children reached the age of 
self-feeding.  
The procedure and measures were conducted as 
follows. An occupational therapist first administered a 
semi-structured interview. A parent-report, Children’s 
Mealtime Behavior Checklist  was filled out and fol-
lowed by an interview to clarify behavioral details. After 
receiving informed consent from parents, the 
child/parent pair were: (1) invited to take their meals at 
our clinic or an investigator was dispatched to the home 
of the pair during their mealtime to record their eating 
activities before using the Racing Game Tray, then (2) 
another mealtime appointment was made within one 
week to record their eating activities using the Racing 
Game Tray.  
Fig. 7 shows the mealtime duration of the four 
child/parent pairs both with and without the Racing 
Game Tray. Before using the Racing Game Tray, the 
mealtimes for the four children (A, B, C, D) were (23, 40, 
41, 25) minutes. Meanwhile, with the Racing Game Tray, 
their mealtimes were reduced to (23, 25, 29, 9) minutes. 
Children B, C, and D all exhibited improvements, re-
ducing mealtime duration from 29% to 64%. 
 
Mealtime duration
0
10
20
30
40
50
A B C D
Participants
M
ea
lti
m
e 
 (m
in
)
without the tray
with the tray
 
Fig. 7. Mealtime duration with and without the Racing Game 
Tray for the four children. 
VI. RELATED WORK 
King et al. [19] describe five persuasive strategies of 
adopting digital technology to change people’s attitudes 
and behaviors. Specifically, these five strategies are 
simulated experiences, surveillance, environments of 
discovery, virtual groups, and personalizing. In the 
simulated experiences strategy, a simulated environment 
or object similar to its real part is created for a person to 
experience results of choosing different behavior. The 
surveillance strategy works by using monitoring and 
tracking to affect a person’s behavior. The strategy of 
environments of discovery presents a fantasy environ-
ment where people’s positive rewards can be given for 
their good behavior. The virtual group strategy leverages 
social competition and collaboration for persuasion.  The 
personalizing strategy enhances the persuasiveness of 
information by tailoring it to individual users’ interests 
or concerns. Fogg [4] introduces Captology, the study of 
computer-based persuasion. He presents a functional 
triad on how people view or respond to computers in 
three general ways, as tools, as media, and as social ac-
tors. Different functions suggest different types or de-
signs for persuasive influence. He also maps out a total 
of 42 principles to design persuasive technologies. An 
example is called the Principle of Social Learning, which 
states that observing other people being rewarded for 
performing a certain behavior can serve as a good mo-
tivation. Some of these persuasive strategies and princi-
ples from King et al. [19] and Fogg [4] are adapted in the 
design presented here, including using digital media 
feedback as positive reinforcement for behavioral in-
tervention. Additionally, this study emphasizes the 
playful aspect of the persuasive technology to maintain 
the interest of the children during the persuasion process.  
There have been several case studies of persuasive 
technologies that target different behaviors with varying 
physical manifestations. Fish’n’Steps [2] is an interac-
tive computer game to encourage physical activity. This 
game is based on a metaphor in which the act of growing 
a virtual fish in a tank symbolizes a similar act of caring 
for one’s own body by walking a high step count. That is, 
the more players walk, the bigger their fishes grow in a 
virtual fish tank. By showing fishes from different 
players in the same virtual fish tank, this game adds the 
elements of social cooperation and competition among 
players. Houston [3] is a mobile phone application that 
encourages physical activity by sharing step counts and 
supportive comments among friends. Sharing of step 
counts and supportive comments provide social influ-
ence to persuade users to increase their daily step counts. 
The UbiFit Garden system [20] also wants to encourage 
physical activities. By using wearable sensors to detect 
and track people’s physical activities, UbiFit displays 
their levels of exercises on a flower garden shown a cell 
phone. ViTo (as opposed to TiVo) [1] is a persuasive TV 
remote controller. This technology targets excessive TV 
watchers. By suggesting alternatives to TV watching, 
such as playing the Non-Exercise Activity Ther-
mogenesis (NEAT) games (i.e., simple puzzles that use 
physical activity as their input), ViTo promotes reduced 
television viewing time. 
VII. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK 
In this paper, we have presented the Racing Game 
Tray, a playful tray that adopts Ubicomp and persuasive 
techniques into play-based occupational therapy for re-
ducing poor eating behavior in young children after they 
reach their self-feeding age. Utilizing Ubicomp and 
persuasive technology extends the reach of occupational 
therapists from their treatment clinic into the actual liv-
Proceedings of 2007 CACS International Automatic Control Conference 
National Chung Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan, Nov. 9-11, 2007 
Nutrition-Aware Kitchen: Enabling Healthy Cooking  
Hao-hua Chu 
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering 
Graduate Institute of Networking and Multimedia 
National Taiwan University 
 
Abstract—We present a smart kitchen that can enhance 
the traditional meal preparation and cooking process by 
raising awareness of the nutrition facts in food ingredients 
that go into a meal. The goal is to promote healthy cooking. 
Our smart kitchen is augmented with sensors to detect 
cooking activities and provides digital feedbacks to users 
about nutritional information on the used food ingredients. 
We have created a preliminary prototype for evaluation, 
and the result is promising. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
A kitchen at home is a place to prepare and cook 
meals for a whole family. Food preparation can be con-
sidered as an act of caring for family members. Through 
cooking healthy foods for their beloved family members, 
they receive self-satisfaction in promoting health and 
reduce risks of chronic diseases in the family. For ex-
ample, if a family member is diabetic, special cares 
should be given to prepare meals with lower fat, protein, 
and sodium [1]. However, studies [11] have shown that 
average family cooks may not know how much nutrition 
goes into their cooked meals and whether the used food 
ingredients are considered healthy for each of their fam-
ily members. Although most packaged foods in grocery 
stores list nutritional information on the package, a.k.a. 
Nutrition Facts (Figure 2) [10], it is rather difficult for 
the cook to calculate overall nutrition after cooking and 
mixing many ingredients together. 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. Smart Kitchen promotes healthy cooking awareness and cooking 
interaction to the cook. 
 
Therefore, we aim to promote healthy cooking to 
the average family cooks by raising awareness of healthy 
food ingredients and their nutrition facts. Our kitchen is 
augmented with sensors to detect cooking activities 
during the cooking process. Then it can infer how well 
these activities conform to healthy cooking, and provide 
corresponding digital media feedbacks to raise healthy 
cooking awareness. For example, while a user is making 
a spaghetti alla carbonara, our kitchen can detect when 
he/she is adding too much whipped cream (high calorie) 
or bacon (high saturated fat). By showing the large 
amount of calories (saturated fat) from the whipped 
cream (bacon), an average family cook can choose to 
adjust the amount of food ingredients for healthy cook-
ing. 
 
 
Fig. 2. Sample nutrition facts on the package of foods. 
 
II. RELATED WORK 
Many research efforts [3,4,5,6,7,8] have focused on 
augmenting kitchens with a variety of digital media to 
create rich, interactive experiences for users cooking in 
the kitchen. Some work has focused on providing 
awareness to support multi-tasking activities in the 
kitchen. For example, Counter Intelligence project from 
MIT [3] has augmented a kitchen with ambient interfaces 
to improve usability of a physical environment. Their 
augmented reality kitchen can assist users in determining 
temperatures, finding things, following recipes, and 
timing intermediate steps during meal preparation. Other 
work has focused on capturing or using digital interac-
tive recipes that can guide users through a step-by-step 
cooking process. For example, Siio et al. [4] automates 
the creation of web-ready multimedia recipes in a kitchen. 
By operating one of the foot-switches, a user can capture 
images of the cooking workplace with voice memos and 
organize into a multimedia recipe. Such digital recipes 
LCD dis-
play 
smart 
cabinet 
smart 
stove 
smart 
counter 
Proceedings of 2007 CACS International Automatic Control Conference 
National Chung Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan, Nov. 9-11, 2007 
weight matching algorithm [2] from our previous work is 
used. That is, the weight sensors underneath the counter, 
cabinet, and stove can detect weight changes. By 
matching the equal amount of the weight decrease (e.g., a 
food container) and the weight increase (e.g., the food 
mixer pan), we can infer an ingredient transfer from the 
food container to the food mixer pan. Using a public 
nutritional database that provides nutrition values for 
each food ingredient type [10], our system can then 
calculate and display overall nutrition facts in each 
container. 
 
After determining nutrition facts of the food ingredients, 
our system provides awareness feedbacks to raise user’s 
awareness on healthy quality of food ingredients.  
User interface and providing awareness 
We make use of a LCD display to show the composition 
of food ingredients in each container on the counter and 
its nutrition facts. Since users are typically busy during 
their cooking process, the design of this interface should 
be as simple and intuitive as possible without demanding 
high cognitive load on users. Our interface is shown in 
Figure 4, with nutrition facts of current container and 
overview of food ingredients information in the system. 
 
 
 
Fig. 4. User interface of our smart kitchen system. We display nutrition 
facts about latest ingredients on the left hand side, and overall ingredient 
information on the right hand side. 
V. PRELIMINARY EVALUATION 
In our preliminary evaluation, we invited one ex-
perienced household cook to participate in our smart 
kitchen system to cook spaghetti for 4 main-course 
servings with the following recipe: 
 
1. Slice the bacon into small strips. Heat the oil in a 
deep skillet over medium flame. Add the bacon for 
about 3 minutes until it is crisp and the fat is ren-
dered. 
2. Cook spaghetti in a 6-quart pot of boiling salted 
water until al dente. 
3. While pasta is cooking, beat together 4 eggs, 
whipped crème (315ml), cheese powder (50g), 
bacon from step 1, and 1/4 teaspoon salt in a small 
bowl. 
4. Drain spaghetti in a colander and then pour egg 
mixture into the pasta in a pot, then toss with tongs 
over moderate heat to combine. Serve immediately. 
The average error in tracking food ingredient to its 
final container is about 10-15 grams. This error is caused 
by two factors. The first one is that the accuracy of our 
weighing sensors is 5 grams. The second one is that on 
average, each good ingredient is transferred 2-3 times. 
Take bacon as example: it was first moved from the 
counter to stove for frying first, then moved back to the 
container on the counter, and finally mixed with the 
sauce.  
We observed when the cook noticed certain ingredi-
ents containing very high calories (e.g. bacon and 
whipped crème) as shown by our system, she reduced to 
approximately 90% of her originally prepared sliced 
bacon and whipped crème amount. That is, after slicing 
bacon, she only heated about 90% of the sliced bacon. 
The cook mentioned that she was surprised about the 
high calorie of these food ingredients, so she decided to 
reduce their amounts. 
We have reported a preliminary evaluation involving 
one user only in this work-in-progress paper. In our fu-
ture work, we will certainly involve multiple users with 
different experience levels and more varieties of recipes. 
 
For every container in the system, the 
interface shows weight information 
about food ingredients the container 
has. 
Table 1. Nutrition facts of four servings in our experiment. 
 
 
VI. DISCUSSION 
Design of user interface 
The current visual feedbacks still occupy too much of the 
cook’s attention such that it distracts her from cooking. 
Our user suggested that some audio feedback can be 
incorporated to alert her about certain unhealthy ingre-
dients. This will free the user from continuously looking 
at the LCD display.  
Response time 
Our system’s response time and robustness are important 
factors in providing satisfactory user experiences. Our 
current system has an average response time of 2 seconds 
for reporting nutritional information for food ingredient 
placed in it, which is too long for rapid paced cooking 
actions of an experienced cook. Our user commented that 
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 附件二 
□ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期： 年 月 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱： 
計畫主持人：         
計畫編號：             學門領域： 
技術/創作名稱  
發明人/創作人  
中文： 
 
 
（100~500 字） 
技術說明 英文： 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
 
技術特點 
 
推廣及運用的價值 
 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
 4
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 95－2218－E－002－023－ 
計畫名稱 總計畫: iCare: 社群化智慧型居家照護: 子計畫一：自適應式及滲透式的居家照護環境(3/3) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
Hao-hua Chu, Associate Professor, National Taiwan University 
會議時間地點 Innsbruck, Austria, Sept 16-19, 2007 
會議名稱 9th International Conference on Ubiquitous Computing (UBICOMP 2007) 
發表論文題目 
We had one full oral paper, one demo, and two poster papers. 
。 [full oral paper] Playful tray: adopting Ubicomp and persuasive techniques into 
play-based occupational therapy for reducing poor eating behavior in young 
children 
。 [demo] A Playful toothbrush to motivate proper brushing for young children 
。 [poster] Mug-Tree: a playful mug to encourage healthy habit of drinking fluid 
regularly 
。 [poster] Collaborative, context-aware experience sampling for depressive patients 
 
一、參加會議經過 
UBICOMP has been the highest quality conference in the area of ubiquitous/pervasive computing. It is a 
single-track conference (accepted about 29 full papers), attended by over 400 people (mostly from Europe or 
U.S. – there are some from Japan and Korea). This year, the paper quality is also very good. We are very 
fortunate to have on oral paper presentations at the conference – it was the only full paper is from Asia this 
year (our Asian competitors from Japan and Korea have only poster papers). My talk was 25 minutes + 5 
minute Q&A. The talk went well, and the audience feedbacks (more details later) were positive. My talk was 
voted as the top 5 presentations by audiences. The students (a total of 5 students attended the conference 
from my lab) also did a great job in their poster presentation and demo sessions.  
 
From talking to conference attendances, we are happy to find that most of the researchers are aware of our 
work, and many have been tracking our lab’s projects from our website. We also receive comments from 
Asian competitors (from Keio) that my lab produced “high quality research work”. 
 
In addition to meeting the researchers from the U.S., we have reacquainted with researchers in Japan, which 
has a large community of UBICOMP researchers. Keio, U. Tokyo, and Wasade have presentations there. 
These Japanese researchers have very creative ideas.   
 
二、與會心得 
Below is a list of questions that were asked by the audiences based on my presentation. 
 
- Why did you focus on autism children? Have you tested on "normal" (or non-autistic) children? Are 
there any different effectiveness of our tech between autistic and normal children? 
- Since ubicomp can allow long-term tech deployment in the child’s nature environment, is it really 
necessary to take away the tray? Would a post-test success be necessary?  
- Suggested one game design focusing on food nutrition (for picky eating) different type of nutrition 
causes different game components  
- Family mealtime experience also includes family interaction time not related to eating. Would the game 
take away from family interaction time? 
- There is one question on recognition error for misbehaving children 
 
