relevant process knowledge is accessible. Therefore, the simultaneous recognition of mean and variance 
CCPs is very helpful in accelerating the diagnostic search for an out-of-control process. Figure 1 presents 
six X-Rm charts using synthetic data to illustrate the relationships between X and Rm charts when the 
process is undergoing different mean abnormalities (Figs. 1(a), 1(b), and 1(c)) and variance abnormalities 
(Figs. 1(d), 1(e), and 1(f)) initiated at sample No. 25. In Figure 1, it can be observed that an abnormality in 
process variance influences both the X and Rm charts. 
Some studies have been conducted to monitor process mean and variance together using NNs (Guo 
and Dooley 1995, Ho and Chang 1999, Dedeakayogullari and Burnak 1999). However, one issue was 
identified in the above studies: Only one CCP type of mean and variance—sudden shift—was considered. 
Other types of patterns were not addressed. The ability to recognize different CCPs is very useful for a 
process monitoring system, as different CCPs can be linked with different sets of assignable causes that 
adversely affect the process. The literature survey also indicates that most of the previous work in the area 
of applying NN to SPC used normalized direct (raw) data of the time series as the input vector of the NN. 
The direct data-based approach is very sensitive to noise, especially when the pattern parameters (e.g. the 
slope of a trend pattern) are small (Cheng 1997, Guh and Tannock 1999). Because each distinct data point 
is used to form the input representation, noise can greatly impair the classification accuracy of the CCP 
recognizer. To overcome this problem, several researchers have used statistical features (e.g. skewness 
and kurtosis), which were extracted from direct data, as the input representation of the NN (Nanopoulos 
and Alcock 2001, Hassan et al. 2003, Lavangnananda and Piyatumrong 2005). Compared with the direct 
data-based approach, the feature data-based approach was shown to have the advantage of better 
classification accuracy and shorter training time (due to the smaller NN structure). However, using only 
statistical feature data may result in the loss of some detailed characteristics originally contained in the 
direct data, e.g., characteristics related to time order. The information resident in the order of the data is 
important to an on-line CCPR scheme since CCPs are essentially time series data. 
While the problem of heavy training load can be relieved by today’s cheap and powerful computation 
hardware, the aim of this project is to develop an NN-based model that can recognize on-line several 
typical CCPs of both mean and variance by using direct and feature data simultaneously. Numerical 
results using extensive simulation indicated that the proposed model can recognize on-line not only single 
mean or variance CCPs but also mixed CCPs in which mean and variance CCPs occur concurrently. The 
NN-based CCP recognizer using hybrid data (i.e. direct and feature data together) performs better than 
both the direct data-based and feature data-based recognizers. 
 
2 Generation of example CCPs 
 
The individuals (X) chart, which plots individual measurement values rather than subgroup averages, 
has attracted the interest of SPC practitioners. The X-Rm chart is more sensitive to process variation than 
are other control charts such as the RX −  chart. Consequently, the X chart generally identifies out-of-
control situations faster than do other control charts (i.e. shorter ARLs or lower Type II errors). Therefore, 
the X-Rm chart is the primary chart considered in this project. Three typical unnatural CCP types (sudden 
shift in level, trend and cycle) of process mean and variance are addressed. In total, six unnatural CCP 
types are addressed: (1) mean shift, (2) mean trend, (3) mean cycle, (4) variance shift, (5) variance trend, 
and (6) variance cycle. All the CCPs herein are defined as in the Statistical Quality Control Handbook 
(Western Electric, 1958). 
In this project, simulation is used to generate the required sets of CCP examples for training, testing, 
and performance evaluation of the NN-based model. The mathematical expressions for the CCP 
generation are detailed in the Appendix. Following the generation of process data, data Xt were 
standardized by subtracting the mean and dividing it by the standard deviation (i.e. Yt = (Xt – μ)/σ, where 
Yt denotes the value standardized from Xt), resulting in a data set with a zero mean and a standard 
deviation of unity. The moving range value at time t (MRt) is then calculated using the expression: 
MRt = 1−− tt YY                                                                       (1) 
2 
 4 
 The on-line observation 
window from the process
Data standardization
Calculation of moving range 
values
Data encoding Feature extraction
BPN-based pattern 
recognition
Any mean 
and/or variance 
abnormality?
LVQ-based further 
classification for mean CCP
LVQ-based further 
classification for variance CCP
direct data feature data
(process is 
in-control)
No
category of abnormality
Yes
variance abnormality
mean CCP type variance CCP type
input next 
measurement data to 
the observation 
window
mean abnormality
Further recognition of the 
detected process abnormality 
by including next six 
measurements into the 
observation window
 
 
Figure 2. Architecture of the proposed NN-based CCPR model for both mean and variance using direct 
and feature data simultaneously. 
 
 
Table 1. Single CCP training examples for the BPN. 
Pattern type Parameter description 
Example quantity of each 
parameter setting 
Example quantity 
Mean shift sm = (0.5, 3.0, 0.25), (-3.0, -0.5, 0.25) 80 1760 
Mean trend 
dm = (0.0875, 0.2, 0.0125), 
    (-0.2, -0.0875, 0.0125) 
80 1600 
Mean cycle am = (0.5, 3.0, 0.25) 80 880 
Variance shift sv = (0.25, 3.0, 0.25), -0.25, -0.5 80 1120 
Variance trend dv = (0.0875, 0.2, 0.0125) 80 800 
Variance cycle av = (0.1, 1.0, 0.1) 80 800 
The notation (a, b, c) corresponds to (initial value, final value, increment). 
6 
5 Performance evaluation 
 
5.1 Performance evaluation method 
After the training and testing of individual NNs was completed, the performance of the proposed 
model was evaluated in a dynamic recognition scenario. The performance evaluation involves the 
following steps: (1) Simulating a process data stream using Equation (A1); (2) Setting t (time of sampling) 
to 24; (3) Taking the most recent 24 sample observations, Xi, i = t-23, t-22, … , t-1, t, from the generated 
process stream; (4) Generating an input vector VI, which contains the direct data (Zt-23, Zt-22, … , Zt-1, Zt), 
the six features extracted from the current 24 direct data, the moving range data (Rt-23, Rt-22, … , Rt-1, Rt), 
and the six features extracted from the current 24 moving range data, using Equations (2)–(7); (5) 
Analyzing the VI using the BPN; (6) If the mean and/or variance CCPs are recognized, concluding that a 
process abnormality has been detected in the current observation window and proceeding to step 7; 
otherwise, incrementing t by 1 and returning to step 3. Repeating this procedure until a process 
abnormality is detected; (7) Implementing further recognition of the detected process abnormality by 
including the next six sample measurements in the observation window, which is again analyzed by the 
BPN; (8) If the category of the process abnormality recognized by the BPN is correct, recording the run 
length of this trial and presenting the data in VI to the corresponding LVQ network for determining the 
CCP type of the detected abnormality. Otherwise, simulating a new process stream and returning to step 2. 
Troubleshooting can be minimized by the early detection of abnormalities. This can be achieved by 
the correct recognition of CCPs together with engineering knowledge of the process. This project uses the 
percentage correctly recognized (CR), ARL, and the standard deviation of the run length (SRL) as 
performance indices. 
 
5.2 Evaluation results 
The performance of the proposed CCPR model for single CCPs was evaluated with 10,000 
independent simulation runs for each parameter setting of each mean or variance CCP type. The 
performance of the proposed model for mixed CCPs (i.e. mean and variance CCPs occurring 
simultaneously) was also evaluated with 10000 independent simulation runs for each parameter 
combination setting of each mixed case. Evaluation results show that the proposed model can effectively 
detect and classify the single CCPs. For mixed CCPs, the proposed mode also possesses good recognition 
capability for mixed CCPs, but not without weak points for some specific pattern combinations. The 
detailed evaluation results here are omitted in this concise project report. 
The proposed model’s performances using direct, feature, and hybrid data (i.e. direct data combined 
with feature data) as the input of NNs were compared via simulation. The results are summarized in Table 
3. Table 3 shows that adding feature data to the input vector of NNs notably enhances the model’s 
performances, especially the recognition accuracy, i.e. CR. Compared to the direct data-based approach, 
the hybrid data-based approach averagely improved the CR values by 2.6% and 4.2% for single and mixed 
patterns, respectively. It can also be concluded from Table 3 that the model using only direct data 
outperformed the model using only feature data. 
The performances of the proposed model were compared with those of existing approaches in the 
literature. Table 4 compares the recognition accuracy for mean and variance abnormalities of the proposed 
model to that of the X-Rm chart, combined CUSUM and moving sum squared (MOSUM-SQ) scheme, 
Cheng and Tzeng’s NN-based model (1994), and Guo and Dooley’s NN-based model (1992). The 
MOSUM-SQ chart (Bauer and Hackle 1980) is based on the sum of squares for a moving data window. 
Table 4 shows that the proposed model outperforms all the compared approaches in recognizing shift 
patterns of process mean and variance, especially for variance shifts. It should be noted that the proposed 
model also provides the capability of dealing with the mixed cases in which mean and variance 
abnormalities occur in the meantime, and the abnormality is not limited only to shift patterns. 
 
 
 
8 
6 Conclusion 
 
Using direct data and selected statistical features together, an NN-based CCPR model was developed 
for the joint monitoring of process mean and variance. The experimental results using simulation indicate 
that the proposed NN-based CCPR model can effectively recognize not only single mean or variance 
CCPs but also mixed CCPs in which the mean and variance CCPs occur concurrently. Empirical 
comparisons showed that the proposed model outperformed the existing approaches in literature in 
detecting mean and variance shifts, while also providing the capability of CCPR that is helpful to 
troubleshooting. This project also demonstrated that the NN-based model using direct process data 
combined with statistical features performed better than the NN-based models using only direct process 
data or statistical features. 
 
Appendix: Mathematical expressions for the CCP generation 
 
    Xt = μ0 + nt + Mt                                                                    (A1) 
    where: 
    t : time of sampling. 
    Xt : sample value at time t. 
μ0 : process mean when the process is in-control (fixed at 0 in this project). 
    nt : a normal distribution at time t by Polar Method (Law and Kelton 1982), following N(0, σ0+Vt), 
where σ0 denotes the process standard deviation when the process is in-control and was fixed at 
1.0 in this project. 
Mt : special disturbance for process mean at time t (zero when no unnatural mean pattern present) 
            shift:           Mt = u×sm 
u : parameter to determine the position of shifting (u = 0 before shifting, u = 1 after 
shifting). 
sm : displacement of mean in terms of σ0. 
    trend:          Mt = dm×t 
dm : trend slope in terms of σ0. 
    cycle:           Mt = am×sin(2πt/Ω) 
                       am : cycle amplitude in terms of σ0. 
                      Ω : cycle period (Ω = 8 in this project). 
 
Vt : special disturbance for process variance at time t (zero when no unnatural variance pattern 
present) 
            shift:            Vt = u×sv 
u : parameter to determine the position of shifting (u = 0 before shifting, u = 1 after 
shifting). 
sv : displacement of standard deviation in terms of σ0. 
    trend:           Vt = dv×t 
dv : trend slope in terms of σ0. 
    cycle:           Vt = av×sin(2πt/Ω) 
                      av : cycle amplitude in terms of σ0. 
 
References 
 
Bauer, P. and Hackl, P., 1980, An extension of the MOSUM technique for quality control. Technometrics, 
22, 1-7. 
Cheng, C. S. and Tzeng, C. A., 1994, A neural network approach for detecting shifts in the process mean 
and variability. Journal of the Chinese Institute of Industrial Engineers, 11, 67-75. 
10 
