2the applied strain rate, the volume ratio vs. pressure curves and true stress vs. true strain curves
were observed to describe the compressibility of hydrogels under dynamic deformations.
2. Experiment Procedures
2.1 Experimental Configuration and Setup
2.1.1 Split Hopkinson Pressure Bar (SHPB)
The Split Hopkinson Pressure Bar (Fig. 1) is an adaptation of the device developed by Kolsky
[2]. It consists of a gas gun system, an incident bar, a transmitted bar and a specimen assembly. A
projectile fired from a gas gun impacts one end of the incident bar and generates a compressive
stress pulse propagating down the bar into the specimen. This pulse reverberates within the
specimen, sending a transmitted pulse into the transmitted bar and a reflected pulse back into the
incident bar. The bars are designed to remain elastic throughout the test so that the complete
displacement time and stress-time histories at the interfaces between the specimen and the bars can
be determined from measurements of the incident, reflected and transmitted pulses [3]. Figure 2
shows the SHPB facility built in KUAS. The length of the SHPB table is about 8 meters and the
incident and transmitted bars are made by 22mm diameter AL7075.
Fig.1 Illustration of SHPB experimental setup. Fig.2 The SHPB facility built in KUAS.
2.1.2 Split Hopkinson Tensile Bar (SHTB)
The Split Hopkinson Tensile Bar was first introduced by Harding [4]. Since then, SHTB have
emerged into five different categories separated from their different pulse generation and sample
clamping structures. In National Kaohsiung University of Applied Sciences, we use striker bar
along with dog-bone shaped specimen to study the high strain rate properties of novel materials,
Figure 3. It consists of a gas gun system, an incident bar, a transmitted bar and a specimen assembly.
A projectile fired from a gas gun impacts one end of the incident bar and generates a tensile stress
pulse propagating down the bar into the dog-bone shaped specimen. This pulse reverberates within
the specimen, sending a transmitted pulse into the transmitted bar and a reflected pulse back into the
incident bar. The bars are designed to remain elastic throughout the test so that the complete
displacement time and stress-time histories at the interfaces between the specimen and the bars can
be determined from measurements of the incident, reflected and transmitted pulses. Figure 4 shows
the SHTB facility built in KUAS. The length of the SHTB table is about 8 meters and the incident
and transmitted bars are both made by 20mm diameter steel.
4Fig.6 Specimen assembly for SHTB experiments.
2.2 Uniform Stress State
For large impedance between compression bars and specimen and for small specimen
thickness, a uniform stress state is developed. The volume ratio of the specimen can be determined
as following:
 T r dtL
C
V
V
0
0
0
0
2
1  (1)
In which 0C stands for the longitudinal wave speed in the compression bars, 0L represents the
initial thickness of the specimen, and r represents the strain of the reflected wave. The
hydrostatic pressure for the specimen during the uniform stress state situation can then be
determined using the transmitted wave data:
thydro EP   (2)
Where E represents the elastic modulus of the compression bars and t represents the strain
of the transmitted wave.
3. Material
Acrylic acid, Ammonium peroxodisulfate, methylenebisacrylamide, and Pluronic were utilized
to produce the low friction, high strength hydrogel specimens [6], Fig. 7. This Pluronic and PAA
bonded hydrogel material possess some special gelation conditions. The gelation took place only
when the pH value of the solution is greater than 4.75, and when its temperature is greater than 7oC.
Figure 8 shows the detailed hydrogel structure after it has been fully swollen in synthetic human
body fluid. It is shown that the hydrogel structure became quite porous after it has fully absorbed
liquid.
Fig.7 Composition mechanism of the proposed hydrogel
6Specimen Thicknesses (mm) 3.2 ~ 5.4
Striker Velocity (m/s) 2 ~ 10
Table 2 SHTB experimental parameters.
Incident Bar Material Steel
Transmitted Bar Material Steel
Specimen Thicknesses (mm) 2 ~ 6
Striker Velocity (m/s) 5~30
5. Summary
The dynamic bulk response of prepared Polyacrylic acid-Alginate-Silica hydrogels were tested
using SHPB and SHTB techniques. The hydrogel was found to be able to withstand hydrostatic
pressure up to 14MPa without drastic damage.
6. Acknowledgements
The author would like to thank NSC for funding this project (grant number NSC-97-2221-E
-151-019).
7. References
[1]www.jointreconstruction.com/ kneeinjury/arthro.htm
[2]H. Kolsky, “An Investigation of the Mechanical Properties of Materials at Very High Rates of
Loading,”Proc. Phys. Soc., London, Vol. 62B, pp. 676-700, 1949.
[3]R. Feng and K. T. Remash, “On The Compressibility of Elasto-Hydrodynamic Lubrican,”
Journal of Tribology, Vol. 115, pp. 557-559, 1993.
[4]J. Harding, E.O. Wood, and J.D. Campbell,“Tensile testing of materials at impactrates of strain”,
Journal of Mechanical Engineering Science, 1960, 2, 88-96
[5]H. Saraf, K. T. Ramesh, A. M. Lennon, A. C. Merkle, and J. C. Roberts,“Mechanical Properties
of Soft Human Tissues under Dynamic Loading,”Journal of Biomechanics, Vol. 40, pp.
1960-1967, 2007.
[6]凌銘鴻、林鴻儒*，低摩擦及高強度水膠應用於修復關節軟骨之研發。結案報告，計劃編號
NSC 94-2216-E-218-004
8. Self Evaluation
In the proposed project, the main objective was to facilitate a versatile SHTB system which is
suited for both hard and soft material dynamic tests. We have achieved our goal by design and
manufacture the SHTB in KUAS (Fig. 4).
The second objective of the project is to perform a series of experiments on Hydrogel to
determine its dynamic response. The dynamic tests have been performed on Hydrogel specimens,
and one oral presentation has been performed:
Tsai, L.; Chiang, C.C.; Wang, S. H. and Lin, H. R. (2009), Dynamic Response of Low Friction,
High Strength Hydrogels, International Conference on Applied Mechanics, Oslo, Norway.
出國報告（出國類別：投稿參加會議）
報告名稱 :參加國際會議報告書-2009
WCSET International Conference on Applied
Mechanics 2009
(ICAM2009)
服務機關：國立高雄應用科技大學
姓名職稱：蔡立仁 助理教授
派赴國家：挪威 奧斯陸
報告日期：8/25/2009
出國期間：7/28-8/6 2009
圖一、會議報告現場。
四、心得（或成效）：
感謝國科會計畫補助出席國際會議經費，讓我能參與2009年International
Conference on Applied Mechanics，我們研究團隊開始準備投稿(包括實驗計
劃、實驗分析及結果討論)需花費近一年時間，會議期間我國與各國學者專家共
聚一堂，將研究成果在此次會議中提出並與各國學者討論及交換意見，會後更詳
談研究方向及目前發展的趨勢。
攜回資料名稱及內容
1. 會議議程一冊
2. 會議論文集光碟一份
3. 聯絡資料(包含相近研究領域之名片交換)
五、建議事項：
感謝國科會補助使我得以赴美國參與此一盛會，讓研究成果得以發表及交
流。國科會鼓勵老師參加國際研討會，並於經費上予以支持，可讓我們了解到各
國在相關研究領域的進展，亦可增加研究人員的國際觀及語文能力，值得大力推
廣。另外本次參加此研討會帶回的相關資訊，將可作為我們未來研究發展方向的
參考，對本計畫有相當的助益。
2an adaptation of the device developed by Kolsky
[2]. It consists of a gas gun system, an incident bar,
a transmitted bar and a specimen assembly. A
projectile fired from a gas gun impacts one end of
the incident bar and generates a compressive stress
pulse propagating down the bar into the specimen.
This pulse reverberates within the specimen,
sending a transmitted pulse into the transmitted bar
and a reflected pulse back into the incident bar. The
bars are designed to remain elastic throughout the
test so that the complete displacement time and
stress-time histories at the interfaces between the
specimen and the bars can be determined from
measurements of the incident, reflected and
transmitted pulses [3]. Figure 3 shows the SHPB
facility built in KUAS. The length of the SHPB
table is about 8 meters and the incident and
transmitted bars are made by 22mm diameter
AL7075.
Fig.2 Illustration of SHPB experimental setup.
Fig 3. The SHPB facility built in KUAS.
2.1.2 Specimen Assembly
In this research, a special specimen assembly
was implanted to modify the dynamic strain
condition in the specimen during the experiments,
as shown in Fig. 4. An acrylic tube was used as a
confinement for the soft hydrogel specimens. The
confinement cell prevents radial expansion,
resulting in the development of a uniaxial strain
state rather than a uniaxial stress state. Thus, the
only deformations are along the axis of the
specimen, and measurement of these deformations
provides a measure of the volume change in the
sample [4]. The stress state in the specimen builds
up to a hydrostatic stress state which approximating
the measured axial stress. Each test therefore
provides one data point: a measured volumetric
strain corresponding to a measured pressure.
Fig.4 Specimen assembly for hydrostatic
experiments.
2.2 Uniform Stress State
For large impedance between compression
bars and specimen and for small specimen thickness,
a uniform stress state is developed. The volume
ratio of the specimen can be determined as
following:
 T r dtL
C
V
V
0
0
0
0
2
1  (1)
In which 0C stands for the longitudinal wave
speed in the compression bars, 0L represents the
initial thickness of the specimen, and r
represents the strain of the reflected wave. The
hydrostatic pressure for the specimen during the
uniform stress state situation can then be
determined using the transmitted wave data:
thydro EP   (2)
Where E represents the elastic modulus of the
compression bars and t represents the strain of
the transmitted wave.
3. Material
Acrylic acid, Ammonium peroxodisulfate,
methylenebisacrylamide, and Pluronic were utilized
4remains to be determined.
6. Acknowledgements
The author would like to thank NSC for
funding this project (grant number NSC-97-2218-E
-151-001).
7. References
[1]www.jointreconstruction.com/kneeinjury/
arthro.htm
[2]H. Kolsky, “An Investigation of the Mechanical
Properties of Materials at Very High Rates of
Loading,”Proc. Phys. Soc., London, Vol. 62B,
pp. 676-700, 1949.
[3]R. Feng and K. T. Remash, “On The
Compressibility of Elasto-Hydrodynamic
Lubrican,”Journal of Tribology, Vol. 115, pp.
557-559, 1993.
[4]H. Saraf, K. T. Ramesh, A. M. Lennon, A. C.
Merkle, and J. C. Roberts, “Mechanical
Properties of Soft Human Tissues under
Dynamic Loading,”Journal of Biomechanics,
Vol. 40, pp. 1960-1967, 2007.
[5]H. R. Lin, NSC Report 94-2216-E-218-004.
 WCSET 2009 : World Congress on Science, Engineering and Technology,  July 29-31, 2009, Oslo, Norway 2
 Surface and Guided Waves in Composites with Nematic Coatings 
Dmitry Zakharov  
Moscow State University of Railway Engineering, Russia 
 
Estimation Of Natural Frequency of The Bearing System 
Under Periodic Force Based on Principal Of Hydrodynamic 
Mass of Fluid 
M. H. Pol, A. Bidi, A.V. Hoseini 
Islamic Azad University of Iran 
 Beams from the glued laminated timber experiment versus FEM model 
Lenka Melzerová, Petr Kuklík 
Czech Technical University in Prague, Faculty of Civil Engineering, 
Czech Republic 
 On the Integrated Control of Vehicle Acticve Suspension and Steering Systems 
Mohamed M. ElMadany and Khalid A. Alsaif 
King Saud University, Saudi Arabia 
 Dynamic Response of Low Friction, High Strength Hydrogels 
Liren Tsai, Chia-Chin Chiang, Shih-Han Wang, Hong-Ru Lin 
National Kaohsiung University of Applied Sciences, Taiwan 
 Investigation of Buoyant Parameters of k-ε Turbulence Model in Gravity Stratified Flows 
A.Majid Bahari, Kourosh Hejazi 
K.N.Toosi University of Technology, Iran 
 Wind-tunnel measurement of the drag-reducing effect of compliant coating 
Inwon Lee, Victor M. Kulik, Andrey V. Boiko and Ho Hwan Chun 
Pusan National University, Korea 
 Analysis of Positive-displacement Hydraulic System in Power Plane 
P. Lielpēters, K. Kravalis, T. Torims 
Riga Technical University, Latvia 
 
Molar Excess Volumes and Excess Isentropic 
Compressibilities of Ternary Mixtures Containing 2-
Pyrrolidinone 
Jaibir S Yadav, Dimple, Vinod K Sharma 
Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak, India 
16:00 
16:15 Coffee Break 
16:15 
18:00 Chair: R.K.Nagaria Session – III (Oral Presentation) 
 Detecting and Locating Wormhole Attacks in Wireless Sensor Networks Using Beacon Nodes 
He Ronghui, Ma Guoqing, Wang Chunlei, Fang Lan 
Beijing Institute of System Engineering, China 
 Identifying blind spots in a stereo view for early decisions in SI for fusion based DMVC 
Nadeem Ahmad Khan, H. Ali, K. Hameed 
Lahore University of Management Sciences , Lahore, Pakistan 
 Optimal convolutive filters for real-time detection and arrival time estimation of transient signals 
Michal Natora, Felix Franke, Klaus Obermayer 
Berlin Institute of Technology, Germany 
 A Comparison of Wavelets_Based to Guaranteeing ECG Compression quality 
Dallali Adel 
Faculté des Sciences de Gafsa, Tunisia 
 Determination of the Characteristics for Ferroresonance Phenomenon in Electric Power Systems 
Sezen Yildirim, Taha Çetin Akinci, Serhat Seker, Nazmi Ekren 
Istanbul Technical University, Turkey 
 Effect of Visual Speech in Sign Speech Synthesis Zdeněk Krňoul University of West Bohemia, Czech republic 
 New Design Methodologies for High Speed Low Power XOR-XNOR Circuits 
Shiv Shankar Mishra, S.Wairya, R.K.Nagaria, S.Tiwari 
Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology, India 
 Simulation of Snow Covers Area by a Physical Based Model 
Hossein Zeinivand, Florimond De Smedt 
Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Brussels, Belgium 
 Thursday: July 30, 2009 
09:00 
11:00 Chair: Iftikhar (Lance) Nizami, Marios Poulos Session – IV (Oral Presentation) 
 A New Analytical Approach to Reconstruct Residual Stresses Due to Turning Process 
G.H. Farrahi, S.A. Faghidian and D.J. Smith 
Sharif University of Technology, Iran 
 Behavior of solutions of the system of recurrence equations on the base of Verhulst-Pearl model 
Dumachev V.N., Rodin V.A. 
Voronezh State University, Russia 
 Detection of Alternaria alternata isolates in tomato fields of Isfahan provice (Iran) 
Faeze sadat Abtahi, Mahdi Khodai Motlagh and Marayam Khalilzade 
University of Tehran, Iran 
 Differentiation of gene expression profiles data for liver and kidney of pigs 
Nataliya Khlopova  
Russian State Agrarian University, Russian Federation 
 Detection of Alternaria alternata isolates in tomato fields of Isfahan provice (Iran) 
Faeze sadat Abtahi, M. Khodai Motlaghand M. Khalilzade 
University of Tehran, Iran 
 Structural Characterization And Physical Properties of Antimicrobial (Am) Starch-Based Films 
Eraricar Salleh, Ida Idayu Muhamad and Nozieana Khairuddin 
Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, Malaysia 
 WCSET 2009 : World Congress on Science, Engineering and Technology,  July 29-31, 2009, Oslo, Norway 4
 
New simultaneous high performance liquid chromatographi
c method for determination of NSAIDs and opioid analgesic
s in advanced drug delivery systems and human plasma 
Asad Ullah Madni, Mahmood Ahmad, Naveed Akhtar, Muhammad 
Usman 
The Islamia University of Bahawalpur, Pakistan 
. In vitro Anti-tubercular screening of newly synthesized benzimidazole derivatives 
M. Shahar Yar, M. Mustaqeem Abdullah, Jaseela Majeed 
Jamia Hamdard University, India 
 Modeling of hydrogen peroxide and Acetone production Reactor 
Gholam Reza Soltanian 
Islamic Azad University-Farahan Branch, Iran 
 Removal of Methylene Blue from aqueous solution by using gypsum as a low cost adsorbent 
Muhammad Abdul Rauf 
United Arab Emirates University, United Arab Emirates 
 Snthesis and Characterization of Newo-Mercapto Azo Complex Dyes 
Salem Edrah, Numan Almonasy, Radim Hrdina, Ladislav Burgert 
Al-Mergab University, Alkomes, Libya, Libya 
 
The effect of loperamide and fentanyl on the distribution 
kinetics of verapamil to lung and brain in Sprague Dawley 
rats.t 
Iman Ahmed Elkiweri 
College of Nursing-Jeddah King Saud bin Abdulaziz University for 
Health Sciences, United States 
16:00 
16:15 Coffee Break 
16:15 
17:00 Chair: Zainuriah Hassan Session – VII (Oral Presentation) 
 InAlGaN Quaternary Multi-Quantum Wells UV Laser Diode Performance and Characterization  
S.M. Sabah, H. Abu Hassan, Z. Hassan  
Universiti Sains Malaysia, Malaysia 
 Structural and Optical Properties of InxAlyGa1-x-yN Quaternary Alloys 
N.H. Abd Raof, H. Abu Hassan, S.K. Bakhori, S.S. Ng, Z. Hassan 
Universiti Sains Malaysia, Malaysia 
 Surface Phonon Polariton in InAlGaN Quaternary Alloys S.S. Ng, Z. Hassan, H. Abu Hassan Universiti Sains Malaysia, Malaysia 
 
A Comparison Study of a Symmetry Solution of Magneto-
Elastico-Viscous Fluid along a Semi-Infinite Plate with 
Homotopy Perturbation Method and 4th Order Runge–
Kutta Method 
Mohamed M. Mousa, and Aidarkhan Kaltayev 
Al-Farabi Kazakh National University, Kazakhstan 
 The Investigations of Water-ethanol Mixture by Monte Carlo Method 
N.A.Atamas, A.A.Atamas 
Kiev Taras Shevchenko University, Ukraine 
 On the Mechanism Broadening of Optical Spectrum of a Solvated Electron in Ammonia 
V. K. Mukhomorov 
Agrophysical Institute, St.-Petersburg, Russia 
 Surface morphology and formation of nanostructured porous GaN by UV-assisted electrochemical etching 
Zainuriah Hassan  
Universiti Sains Malaysia, Malaysia 
 Performance of InGaN/GaN Laser Diode Based on Quaternary Alloys Stopper and Superlattice Layers 
Zainuriah Hassan  
Universiti Sains Malaysia, Malaysia 
 Friday: July 31, 2009 
09:00 
11:00 Chair: Somlak Wannarumon, Stefan Menzel Session – VIII (Oral Presentation) 
 Using GRN-FDTD For Simulation Of Electromagnetic Environment 
Vipul Sharma, Shyam S Pattnaik, S. Devi, Shyam Kamal, Ambarish 
Pathak, Manu Smriti 
Gurukul Kangri University, Haridwar, India 
 Organic thin film transistors based oligothiophine derivatives using a,w-dihexyl(quarter- & sexi-)thiophene 
Jae-Hong Kwon, Myung-Ho Chung, Tae-Yeon Oh, Hyeon-Seok Bae, 
and Byeong-Kwon Ju 
Korea University, Repulic of Korea 
 Evaluation of Neuro-Fuzzy Approach for Software Estimation 
S.H.Deshmukh, M.V.Deshpande, S.G.Bhirud 
Svkm's D.J.Sanghvi College Of Engineering, Mumbai, India 
 A new correlation for overall Sherwood number in packed liquid-liquid extraction column 
S. GhaffariTooran- H. Abolghasemi-H.Bahmanyar-M.Emaeili-A. safari
University of Tehran, Iran 
 A Perspective Study of Asthma And Its Control in Assam (India) 
Vijaya Kumar Subash 
Sikkim University, India 
 ISC – Intelligent Subspace Clustering, a Density based Clustering approach for High Dimensional Database 
Sunita Jahirabadkar 
Pune University, India 
 A Distributed e-Learning System corresponding to Environment of Computer 
Kazunari Meguro, Shinichi Motomura, Takao Kawamura, Kazunori 
Sugahara 
Tottori University, Japan 
 Continuous Service Offer for a Distributed e-Learning System 
Kazunari Meguro, Shinichi Motomura, Takao Kawamura, Kazunori 
Sugahara 
Tottori University, Japan 
 WCSET 2009 : World Congress on Science, Engineering and Technology,  July 29-31, 2009, Oslo, Norway 6
 
Regional Knowledge Management Platform for the 
Sustainable Development in the Bucharest-Ilfov Romanian 
Region 
Mihaela Muresan 
Professor Dr. Dimitrie Cantemir Christian University, Bucharest, 
Romania 
 Developing a sustainable educational portal for the D-Grid community 
Viktor Achter, Sebastian Breuers, Marc Seifert, Ulrich Lang, Joachim 
Götze, Bernd Reuther, Paul Müller 
Universität zu Köln, Germany 
 Grey System&Data Mining&Social Variables Behrooz Ahmadlou Shiraz University, Iran 
 Action Research to Introduce a Process-based Knowledge Map in a Small-sized Manufacturing 
Runchana Sinthavalai 
Prince of Songkla University, Thailand 
 Radar task schedulers based on multiple queue 
María I. Jiménez, Alberto Izquierdo, Juan J. Villacorta, Lara del Val, 
and Mariano Raboso 
University of Valladolid, Spain 
14:00 
17:00 Chair: Samee U. Khan (Digital Presentation) 
 Finite element simulation of copper T-branch bulge forming using a solid bulging medium 
H. Bisadi, M. Kalantari Dehaghi 
Iran University of Science and Technology (IUST), Iran 
 Velocity and Acceleration Simulation of a Vehicle with a Continuously Variable 
Arash Babaei, Naghdali Choupani 
Sahand University of Technology, Iran 
 Comparison between Skyhook and Minimax Control Strategies for Semi-active Suspension System 
Hongkun Zhang, Hermann Winner, Wenjun Li 
Jilin University, China 
 Suitability of the Gamma Frequency for Seizure Files Classification 
Maria Tito, Mercedes Cabrerizo, Melvin Ayala, Prasanna Jayakar, and 
Malek Adjouadi 
Florida International University, USA 
 Car Horn’s Sound Recognition Using Phased Modeling 
Mostafa Jahangir, Mohammad Ebrahim Shirii, Ali Movaghar 
Rahimabadi, Mohammad Hossein Peyravi 
Islamic Azad University Sepidan Branch, Iran 
 Energy and Distance Based Clustering: An Energy Efficient Clustering Method for Wireless Sensor Networks 
Mehdi Saeidmanesh, Mojtaba Hajimohammadi, Ali Movaghar 
Islamic Azad University Aligudarz branch, Iran 
 Improvement in DGPS Accuracy Using Recurrent S_CMAC_GBF 
Ching-Tsan Chiang, Jih-Sheng Hsu, and Chia-Yen Hsieh 
Ching Yun University, Taiwan 
 A Competitive Replica Placement Methodology for Ad hoc Networks 
Samee U. Khan and Cemal Ardil 
North Dakota State University, USA 
 A Fast Replica Placement Methodology for Large-scale Distributed Computing Systems 
Samee U. Khan and Cemal Ardil 
North Dakota State University, USA 
 Knowledge representation and retrieval in design project memory 
Smain Bekhti, Nada Matta 
College of Computer Science and Information Systems - Imam 
University, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 
 Simulation and Optimization of Mechanisms made of Micro-molded Components 
Albers, A.; Leslabay, P. 
Institute of Product Development, Universität Karlsruhe, Germany 
 Knowledge representation and retrieval in design project memory 
Smain Bekhti, Nada Matta 
College of Computer Science and Information Systems - Imam 
University, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 
 QoS Routing in Wired Sensor Networks with Partial Updates 
Arijit Ghosh and Tony Givargis 
University of California, Irvine, USA 
 Investigation the Mathematical Equation of Cersis Siliquastrum Leaf curve by Image Processing Technique 
Mohammed Dehghandar 
Payame Noor University, Iran 
 Compost quality Management by Adding Sulfuric Acid and Alkaline Wastewater of Paper Mill as two Amendments 
Alipour Hamid Reza, Mohammadi Torkashvand Ali 
Islamic Azad University-Rasht Branch, Iran 
 Investigation of the Possibility to Prepare Supervised Classification Map of Gully Erosion by RS and GIS 
Mohammadi Torkashvand Ali, Alipour Hamid Reza 
Islamic Azad University-Rasht Branch, Iran 
 Verification of On-Line Vehicle Collision Avoidance Warning System using DSRC 
Chan Wei Hsu 
Chan Wei Hsu, Taiwan 
 
Integration of Acceleration Feedback Control with 
Automatic Generation Control in Intelligent Load Frequency 
Control 
Hidayat Zainuddin, Farhan Hanafi, Mohd. Hendra Hairi, Aminudin 
Aman, and Md.Hairul Nizam Talib 
Universiti Teknikal Malaysia Melaka (UTeM), Malaysia 
 Design for the nanowire resonant mass sensor Zeng Dujuan Tsinghua University, China 
 Equation Based Rate Control for Adaptive Video Streaming over Cellular Networks 
Abdolkarim Mardanian Dehkordi,Vahid Tabataba Vakili 
Iran University of Science and Technology, Iran 
