新穎多孔性氮碳化矽材料及氣隙內連接可行性之研究(II) 
Novel silicon nitride/carbide (SiNC)-based porous etch-stop layer and feasibility assessment of 
air-gap interconnect (II) 
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-009-177 
執行期間：98 年 08 月 01 日 至 99 年 12 月 31 日 
主持人：呂志鵬 交通大學材料科學與工程學副教授 
I. Abstract 
超大型積體電路元件為降低尺寸縮小所帶來之 RC 遲滯效應，在 90 奈米後段製程中
已引進低介電材料(k ~ 3.0)。而新世代超低介電材料(k < 2.5)之研發仍以多孔性的低介電材
料為主，然而因可靠度及機械強度不足之故，使其應用上仍有待解決。而較革命性的氣隙
內連接，在今年五月 IBM 宣佈後，再度點燃產學界研發上的競爭。而目前 IBM 氣隙內連
接無法被接受之主因乃在於額外光罩費用和機械強度。為解決這些問題，本計畫提出一種
新穎的氣隙內連接結構，其中包括兩大關鍵性材料：(1)自我對準(self-aligned)的金屬覆蓋
層，如 CoW(B,P)，以降低電遷移情況並保護銅導線，及(2)待開發之新穎多孔性氮碳化矽材
料(PESL)。本計畫已於第一年成功組裝 PECVD 沉積系統，並使用 1, 3, 
5-trimethyl-1, 3, 5-trivinylcyclotrisilazane (VSZ) 沉積 PESL 薄膜。 
本研究計畫在 PECVD 系統中，利用 VSZ 當作 SiCxNy 主體的前趨物，並加入兩種不同
的起孔洞劑 styrene 與 ECH，來探討其對多孔洞 SiCxNy 薄膜之孔洞形貌的影響。因為 styrene
含有乙烯基的官能基，經由 PECVD 的電漿轟擊後，較容易產生電漿聚合反應，因而可以
得到高度交聯的結構，但是 ECH 的起孔洞劑僅會產生較不穩定的 CHx 小分子破片，所以當
SiCxNy 加入不同含量的的 styrene 起孔洞劑，其孔洞大小會從 22 到 35 nm，但是加入不同
含量的 ECH 起孔洞劑時，孔洞大小都維持在 21 nm，故所以本研究可以進一步的透過乙烯
基的官能基來調控多孔洞 SiCxNy 薄膜的孔洞形貌。 
Development of low-k materials has been the primary effort in the backend interconnects to 
minimize the RC delay in the ULSI devices. Evolutional approach of ultra-low k materials (k < 
2.5) focuses on porous materials through the incorporation of sacrificial, low- or 
high-temperature porogens, which still have challenging issues in barrier reliability and 
mechanical integrity. In contrast, air-gap interconnect is a revolutionary approach capable of 
delivering keffective close to 1. IBM’s announcement in May, 2007 on air-gap microprocessors 
has rekindled the pursuit of air-gap interconnects in the microelectronic industry as well as in the 
academia. Noticeably, additional masks and mechanical reliability are prohibitive to its 
acceptance for mass production. To eliminate the need of additional masks, we propose a novel 
air-gap interconnect architecture which involves two critical materials: (1) a well-known metal 
cap layer and (2) a novel porous etch-stop SiNC layer (PESL). Metal cap layer such as CoW(B,P), 
which is self-aligned through selective electroless deposition onto Cu lines, can enhance 
electromigraion resistance and provide protection to Cu lines during any post processing step for 
air-gap. Meanwhile, PESL, an enabling material technology, can provide permeable 
microchannels in the plasma of the sacrificial interlayer dielectric (ILD) for forming the air-gap.   
In this project, porous SiCxNy films were deposited by plasma-enhanced chemical vapor 
deposition (PECVD) using VSZ as the matrix precursor together with styrene and 
%. After the film deposition, the porogen was burned out at 400 oC for 1 hour under the Ar 
atmosphere the post-annealing step. A specular reflectance Fourier-transform infrared 
spectroscopy (MAGNA-IR Technology Protege 460, Nicolet Inc.) was used to analyze the 
chemical bonding of SiCxNy/porogen hybrid films. The spectrum was collected at 50o incident 
angle in 400-4000 cm-1 range using 32 scans at a resolution of 4 cm-1. In addition, pore size of 
porous SiCxNy films was characterized by a grazing incidence small-angle X-ray scattering 
(GISAXS) using BL23A beam-line of the National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center 
(NSRRC), Taiwan. All 2D GISAXS patterns were obtained at incidence angles of 0.15o with 
X-ray energy of 8 KeV. X-ray reflectivity (XRR) was utilized to measure the density of the 
SiCxNy films. Thus the porosity of porous SiCxNy films was deduced from ρ=ρo(1-φ), where ρo 
was the density of dense SiCxNy films, ρ was the density of porous SiCxNy films and φ was the 
porosity of porous SiCxNy films. 
(a) 
HN
Si
N
H
Si
NH
Si
HC CH3
H3C
HC
CH2
CH
CH3
CH2
CH2
     (b)   
CH2
HC
C
CH
CH
C
H
HC
HC
   (c)   
H2
C
CHH2C
H2C CH
C
H2
O
 
Figure 1. The monomer structures of (a) VSZ, (b) styrene, and (c) ECH. 
 
II. Results and Discussion 
(a) Structure effect 
In order to distinguish the PS-porogen in the SiCxNy matrix after PECVD deposition, we 
first examined the plasma-deposited polystyrene (PPS) compared to styrene monomer by FTIR 
spectroscopy as shown in figure 2. The main absorption peaks of C=C bonds at 1600-1680 cm-1, 
the asymmetric stretching vibration of C-H (=CH2) bonds at 3020-3080 cm-1, the asymmetric 
bending of C-H2 bonds at 1450 cm-1, the wagging vibration of C-H (=CH2) bonds at 900-1000 
cm-1 and the out-of-plane bending models of aromatic C-H bonds at 700 and 760 cm-1 were 
observed in both PECVD PPS film and styrene monomer [6]. However, in PPS film, there were 
two new absorption peaks at 1375 and 2930 cm-1 corresponding to the symmetric stretching 
vibration of C-H (-CH3) bonds. The appearance of these C-H bonds could be attributed to the 
break-up of the vinyl groups, resulting in free radicals to initiate polymerization, and then a 
plasma-polymerized PS film with extensive branching  of polystyrene via plasma bombardment 
[7]. As a result, the degree of polymerization of PPS is expected to influence the pore size if it is 
introduced into the PECVD film as a porogen precursor. Thus, compared to ECH, polymerizable 
styrene is also used as a sacrificial porogen to examine their impact on the pore size through 
post-annealing treatment after film deposition. 
 
inter-pore structure correlation. figures 5(a) and 5(b) illustrated the GISAXS intensity distribution 
versus qy of various styrene and ECH porogen loading of porous SiCxNy films. In the lower qy 
value, the intensity peak revealed the pore-to-pore correlation and the spatial arrangement of pore. 
The maximum intensity of 10 % and 20 % styrene loading appeared at qy ~ 0.019 and 0.014 Å, 
respectively. According to D=2π/qy, max formula [9], the values (D) were estimated to be 33 and 
44 nm, which were the mean distances between the pore-to-pore, due to the occurrence of a short 
range ordering. In the high q region, the asymptotic form of the intensity curves would be close to 
the Porod law [10], I(qy)~q-α, which provides the information about pore shape. In this case, the 
fitting curves of exponent α were equal to 4 for spherical shape pore for sample of both porogens 
at all loadings. Quantitative information of the pore size from the scattering patterns of porous 
SiCxNy films could be extracted and approximated by spherical pore model using Guinier law 
[11], following the equation 1: 
)
3
1exp()( 2222 go RqqI                           (1) 
where I(q) was the scattering intensity of the independent pore, ρo was uniform scattering length 
density, and ν was the volume of the sphere. In this case, ln I(q) was plotted against qy2 with a 
slope of (-Rg2/3), that the radius of gyration could be evaluated and the pore size were deduced 
from d = 2.58Rg. 
First, the pore size of PECVD VSZ film was fitted to be ~18 nm by GISAXS. The porosity 
in the VSZ film after post-annealing is attributed to the loose and cross-linked structure formed 
by three vinyl groups under plasma deposition condition. The incorporation of porogens such as 
ECH and PPS into VSZ matrix is expected to further increase the pore size. When styrene was 
used as porogen from 5% to 20% loading, the pore size of porous SiCxNy films increased from 22 
nm to 35 nm with increasing styrene porogen loading due to the higher degree of plasma 
polymerization. Also, the porosity of porous SiCxNy films at 20% styrene loading was about 15 % 
based on XRR measurement. In contrast, the pore size of porous SiCxNy films using various ECH 
loading was almost constant at ~21 nm presumably due to the formation of liable fragment during 
plasma deposition. From XRR, the porosity of porous SiCxNy films at 20% ECH loading was 
almost the same as that of styrene porogen, 15%. Thus, at the same porosity, the styrene porogen 
could create a larger pore size in the porous SiCxNy films by adjusting the loading in the plasma 
gas feed. This offers another dimension in the design of pore morphology for porous SiCxNy 
materials. 
(a)   (b)    
Figure 4. 2D GISAXS scattering patterns of porous SiCxNy films with 10 % loading of (a) styrene 
porogen and (b) ECH porogen. 
Delivered Results 
1. Completion of PECVD deposition, growth kinetics, and film properties 
characterization of polysilazane (VSZ) together with styrene and ECH. 
2. Completion of control pore size by the vinyl functional group in porous 
SiCxNy films by adjusting the porogen precursor flow in the plasma gas feed. 
3. The publications of international conference papers (2010 Materials Research 
Society): 
Hung-En Tu and Jihperng Leu, " The Porogen Structure and Loading Effect on 
Pore Morphology in Porous Low-k SiCxNy Etch-stop PECVD Films," 2010 
Materials Research Society Spring Meeting, April 5~9, 2010, San Francisco, CA, 
USA. 
 
 
Invited Address – Prof. Hideo Hosono, Tokyo Institute of Technology 
Topic: TAOS-TFT: History and Perspective 
Key merits of TAOS (transparent amorphous oxide semiconductor) include (a) large mobility (10-20 
cm2/V-s), easy fabrication by sputtering, (c) homogeneous (no grain boundary), and optically 
transparent. 
Prof. Hosono gave an opening address on the development and status of amorphous ionic oxide 
semiconductor, which he proposed and invented in 1995. His talk anchored the key theme of this 
Workshop, i.e. oxide TFT. To a person like me who has been working on Si-based CMOS and backend 
interconnects, I appreciate the review of TAOS and fast forward to the latest results of a-IGZO for TFT 
channel layer. For a-IGZO, In+3 serves as electron pathway former to enable high electron mobility, 
Zn+2 serves as amorphous structure stabilizer to ensure stable amorphous structure, and Ga+3 serve as 
carrier generation suppresser to enable the excellent controllability of carrier density. Commercial- 
ization of IGZO oxide TFT is competitive as AUO anounced 37” FHD, while Samsung announced 70” 
UHD (2kx4k), 240 Hz at FPD International at Makuhari in November. Key presentation foils by Prof. 
Hosono were listed below for references.  
    
 
 
 The quality of this conference is exceptional starting with the excellent keynote and invited addresses, 
and state-of-art research and development, and technology through the oral presentations and posters. I 
definitely plan to attend this Workshop in the future. 
 
Posters 
(a) There were 15-20 poster papers withdrawn, which was kind of disappointment. 
(b) DSSC poster papers did not fit well in this conference. Yet, I was disappointed about the language 
skill of poster owner, who appeared to be a student from the country next to Japan. I gave up after 
5 minutes of struggle to get my questions across. This will be area of attention when we send 
students to international conference. 
(c) There were many interesting posters which I will capture as follows. 
(1) LCTp2-9L Alignment of LC on ion beam treated ITO surface directly with PI.  
We would like to see if laser treatment can deliver the same results and performance. 
(2) LCTp3-1 Mechanism for lattice-shaped Mura.  
It was found that at the edge dotted part, the monomer was highly evaporated, resulting in 
high concentration of singles compared to center area. This leads to a higher n and higher 
transmittance, thus lattice Mura.  
 
(3) FMCp-18 Transparent conductive film incorporating silver halide photographic technologies 
Use light exposure to form conducting metallization line. But, need to recycle the unused 
silver halide. Fujifilm smartly reinvented this interconnects using EXCLEAR from traditional 
photographic technology. 
 
(4) Laser anneal process 
(a) Fabrication process of flexible devices using thin polyimide, in addition to transfer layer and 
PET/adhesive backing layer.   
 
 
The CD of oral and poster papers are available upon request. I can be reached at 
jimleu@mail.nctu.edu.tw if there is interest to browse the conference CD.  
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：呂志鵬 計畫編號：98-2221-E-009-177- 
計畫名稱：新穎多孔性氮碳化矽材料及氣隙內連接可行性之研究(II) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 4 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
