2 
and (2) to acquire university students’ self-perceived cognition of green electronic products 
(GEP) information, information needs of electronic products, and personal information by 
using a questionnaire.  
In order to make the project fit within the aims of the study, the reference reviews, 
related Web sites, related information, and preliminary survey with random sampling in 
Taiwan have been gathered for designing the experiment of this study in the first five 
months. Forty undergraduate students participated in the experiment. The measurements, 
including pre-experiment questionnaire, user-Web interaction matrix, and post-experiment 
questionnaire, were used to understand users’ information search process and to elicit the 
information needs captured by their external and mental patterns for applying to the design 
of a user-oriented Web site. The subsequent questionnaire survey has been designed based 
on the results of the experiment. The data contained 268 entries sampled from 
undergraduate students in Taipei. 
The four levels of information based on the stages of user information needs, the needs 
for the Web-based functions, the suggestions of interface design, and gender differences 
have been addressed based on the results for developing a useful GEP Web site. Finally, 3 
home page interfaces have been designed based on the results and the referenced Web sites. 
Keywords: User-Web interaction; information needs; user-centered design; green 
consumer electronic products. 
1. INTRODUCTION 
The Internet is a worldwide system of computer networks. Such a system may offer a 
wide range of communication, information and entertainment services. More and more 
companies and government organizations are developing Web sites to convey green 
information in the efforts of establishing an international image and reinforcing people's 
environmental values, i.e. conservation, preservation, world of beauty. Complete and clear 
relevant information provided by such Web sites may influence the Internet user’s 
willingness to buy the green products (Huang et al., 2009). However, rarely can one find a 
Web site catering to the needs of consumers searching for green products. For enhancing 
Internet users’ green awareness and to promote green electronic products (GEPs), including 
computers, communication devices and consumer electronics, developing a customized 
Web site is our primary objective. It is not easy to design a useful Web site for users. There 
has been a tremendous increase in the number of Web sites and most of them have been 
designed without respect to the user’s cognitive thinking leading to a frustrating and 
disappointing experience searching information on the Web (Wang et al., 2000). A good 
understanding of users’ online behavior is needed for developing a Web site to provide 
needed information. Here, an investigation of user-Web interaction in information search 
and e-shopping behaviors is suggested. The aims of this study are: (1) to develop an 
4 
unchangeable, the technology of information system must be matched to the human 
cognition required. Also, effective presentation and the display of information in a 
sequence and manner, that is easy to understand, facilitate good decision-making (Hsee, 
1995; Albers, 1996). 
Information is an important tool for the growing public support for environmental 
issues and also developing environmentally responsible behaviour in many ways. Since 
many important environmental problems are not experienced by most people as an 
obtrusive reality in everyday life, information from external sources is often needed for 
them to become aware of the existence of the problem and to believe that it is serious 
enough to deserve attention. With the right kind of information it is possible to influence 
consumers’ values and to persuade them to change their priorities (Ball-Rokeach et al., 
1984). Here, the values were defined as ‘desirable transsituational goals, varying in 
importance, that serve as guiding principles in the life of a person or other social entity’ 
(Schwartz, 1994, p. 21). Basic values are very abstract categories and it is generally 
assumed that they influence behaviours in a rather indirect way, mediated through more 
specific beliefs, attitudes and norms. Consumers need specific and reliable information in 
order to be able to choose the most environmentally friendly alternative when competing 
options are offered (Russell and Krarup, 2005, p.59).  
2.3 Demographic attributes for Internet usage 
The differences in various aspects of Internet usage, green consumption or 
environmental sociology across demographic groups are areas of interest for research 
because demographic attributes were found to influence the individuals’ actions before they 
engage in a given behavior (Ajzen & Fishbein, 1980; Zhang, 2005). Gender (Hills & 
Argyle, 2003; Levy, 2002; Zhang, 2005; Hwang, Jung, & Salvendy, 2006; Jackson et al., 
2008; Potosky, 2007), age (Akman, Yazici, Mishra, & Arifoglu, 2005; Hills & Argyle, 2003; 
Koyuncu & Lien, 2003; Zhang, 2005), and income (Forsythe & Shi, 2003; Hwang et al., 
2006) are among the important factors found to affect Internet usage. The factors of gender 
(Eagly, 1987; Hines et al., 1987; Roberts, 1993; Olli et al., 2001), age(Hines et al., 1987; 
Roberts, 1993; Hallin, 1995; Olli et al., 2001), education(Hines et al., 1987; Olli et al., 
2001), political affiliation(Dunlap, 1975; Olli et al., 2001) and long working hours(Sanne, 
2002) are found to affect their green consumption. Finally, gender and age are found to 
influence environmental behavior (Davidson and Freudenburg, 1996; Mohai, 1997). From 
the previous studies, one can see that gender and age differences in the use of Internet, 
green consumption, or environmental behavior have been well documented. As of May 
2009, more than 15.8 million people, 68.94% of the total population in the Taiwan have 
Internet access. Furthermore, 99.45% of the population in ages 15 to 19 and 97.24% of the 
population in ages 20 to 24 are actively using the internet (Taiwan Network Information 
6 
42.5% of participants change their decision making process when searching for information 
online. Of the additional information requested for all participants, new product 
information was most requested (32%), followed by comparison information for price/tech 
specs/design (26%) and then computer accessories (24%).  
4.2 Questionnaire survey 
The results revealed that females believe green information is important and are willing 
to read more related information (i.e. green product information, product differences, why 
GEPs are available and choosing GEPs) while males agree more to their pre-existing green 
knowledge about GEP, product differences, and choosing GEPs. The results also shows that 
female tend to agree to those questions that are not in favor of GEPs (i.e. lower quality, 
difficult to maintain, reduced warranty, and not accepted by the public) and find more 
questions important to their decision making (i.e. shorter life, lower quality, reduced 
warranty, and not well promoted). On the other hand, males are shown to not find any of 
the questions as important compared to the female counterparts; however, they tend to 
agree more to those questions that may less affect the decision to obtain a green product (i.e. 
not as easy to find, less after-sales support, and marketability) as compared to those agreed 
to by females. 
5. DISCUSSION 
The classified model for most of the Web sites is based on the feature of the products in 
the hopes to make information retrieval easier, but the user will feel more and more 
unsatisfied with the ISP. Here, the classified model of Web site information based on the 
stages of user information needs instead of products’ feature has been suggested for 
assisting each user’s information needs and improving users’ online experience (see Figure 
1). The four levels of information for the Web site are general products information, 
specific products information, comparison information and vendors’ information. To 
provide Web users with the necessary and desired products information, each level’s 
information on the GEP Web site is screened and integrated. Also, each level provides 
different objective information to assist different Web users’ information needs. The idea is 
expected to reduce the information overload and the number of visited Web pages and to 
support the users in different cognitive needs and situational elements. 
The experiment has revealed differences in the information search process according to 
gender; therefore, information needs based on gender differences have to be taken into 
account in the development of a GEP Web site. Based on the results, females pay more 
attention on green information as they find the questions more important than males. The 
males’ cognition of GEP is shown in their agreement to their own pre-conceived 
understanding of GEPs, the product differences, and how to choose a GEP. This shows that 
males believe more in themselves as being capable to decide on GEPs and as such find the 
green information as less important, whereas females do not have such preconceptions and 
8 
assessment tool (EPEAT) (http://www.epeat.net/), and United States environmental 
protection agency (http://www.epa.gov/). The other 2 sites are Yahoo.com and Google.com. 
In this study, 3 home page interfaces for GEP Web site have been designed based on the 
referenced Web sites and the results of this study, as show in Figure 2. 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
Figure 2. Resulting home page interfaces  
6. CONCLUSION 
A new Web site design has been proposed to provide filtered and integrated products 
information based on the stages of users’ needs to assist user’s Web information search and 
to avoid receiving unnecessary/redundant information, inefficient interaction with 
Web-based system and information overload. The experimental results did not show a 
significant difference between genders in the importance of green knowledge; however, the 
questionnaire results revealed that there were significant differences between the genders in 
the perceived importance of information provided to aid in their decision making. The 
current study contributes a new idea for developing a Web site providing useful 
information and specific information needs of green information, electronic products, and 
GEP for females and males. Future study could investigate the development and evaluation 
of a GEP Web site with consideration to gender specific informational needs. Also, the 
sample used in this study is limited to undergraduate students; future studies may explore 
this subject with Internet users in ages 12-65. 
REFERENCES 
Ajzen, I., & Fishbein, M., 1980. Understanding attitudes and predicting social behavior. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: 
Prentice-Hall, Inc.. 
Akman, I., Yazici, A., Mishra, A., & Arifoglu, A., 2005. E-Gov: A global perspective and an empirical assessment of 
citizens’ attributes. Government Information Quarterly, 2005, 239–257. 
Albers, M. C., 1996. Auditory cues for browsing, surfing, and navigating the WWW: The Audible Web. Proceedings of 
ICAD 96, 85-90. Santa Fe, NM: Santa Fe Institute. 
Ball-Rokeach, S.J., Rokeach, M. and Grube, J.W., 1984. The great American values test: influencing behaviour and belief 
though television, New York: Free Press. 
Belkin, N.J., Brooks, H.M. and Oddy, R.N., 1982. Ask for information retrieval. Journal of Documentation, 38, 61-71. 
Belkin, NJ, Cool, C., Stein, A. and Thiel, U., 1995. Cases, scripts and information-seeking strategies: On the design of 
interactive information retrieval systems. Expert Systems with Applications, 9, 379-395. 
Dervin, B., 1983. An overview of sense-making research: Concepts, methods and results to date. Seattle: School of 
Communications, University of Washington. 
Dunlap, R., 1975. The impact of political orientation on environmental attitudes and actions, Environment and Behavior 7, 
428–453. 
10 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■  達成目標 
本研究可分為三大部份進行:首先,前測問卷共發放 1500 份,有效問卷
1160份,用以了解國人對於環保 3C的認知與接受程度並同步分析國內外環保
相關的網站設計;其次為,透過前測問卷回收結果,依序設計實驗情境任務與針
對環保認知與資訊需求設計一份問卷,以達成計劃預期目標。 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿 ■撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無   技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
• 報告已發表於國際研討會中(如下所示); 預計年底前投搞至 SCI 期刊。 
Huang, F.H. & Iv, W.Z. 2010/7/26-31. Information needs for developing a green electronic product Web 
site, In Proceedings of IADIS International Conference Interfaces and Human Computer Interaction. 
Freiburg, Germany. 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用
價值。 
本研究之貢獻如下細部說明之: 
• 學術成就部份,多數網站介面設計之相關研究,皆以問卷調查為主,並沒有考慮到
實質的需求或使用上的問題,本研究,透過整合性的方法,來取得以使用者為設計
中心的概念,進行網站設計的考量,發現,性別的不同,對於電子產品的資訊需求
是有顯著性差異的。 
• 社會影響方面,台灣人民對於環保的概念尚有很大的改善空間,對於環保產品的
接受程度,則需要透過環保觀念的建立使環保產品的推行更加順利,本研究,亦針
對提供國人環保概念與增加環保產品接受度的方向前進,讓台灣可以成為綠色島
國,提升社會大眾對於環保的認知與國際知名度。 
• 學術應用方面,本研究最後亦設計出網站介面之初步設計雛形(如下圖1所示),結
合研究結果,設計出三個網站首頁介面圖形,未來,將透過相關研究,取得合適的
首頁設計,並建構出一個實質的 GEP 網站,透過網路行銷來傳達環保的重要性,達
到實務上的應用效果。 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 1.網站首頁設計草圖 
 
 - 2 - 
程都排滿了各式的界面或人與電腦互動等議題,讓與會的研究人員可以依自己的研究喜
好去選擇參加,而我所參加的研究議題則主要以 User-centred analysis, design and 
evaluation and Usability 為核心。首先,此議會的 Keynote presentation 是由一名澳洲學者
Mike Jones 主講,針對 Space, Game, Camera. The perspective interface, the virtual camera, 
and the simulation of “I”的主題,一開始,主講者就很明確地點出傳統的介面設計受限於”
架構”的考量,設計者必須考量使用者的心智模式與系統架構的限制,來找出並設計出最
符合人的認知程度的圖像設計,然而,受到技術演進的推進,圖像的呈現已經進入 3D 與實
體呈現,如此圖像的呈現技術可以有效地解決原有的使用者認知問題,使得設計者設計界
面時的考量也轉化為必須將 3D或實體呈現的影像能有效地與系統內部架構連結,來完整
呈現使用者所認知的圖像,因此,界面的呈現模式漸漸地朝向動態或遊戲理論來吸引使用
者的興趣,進而達到使用者的目的與經驗連結的效益。主要的目的也是希望能夠達到在輕
鬆情況之下,猶如玩遊戲機一樣的情境之下,透過系統界面的指引與功能,完成手上的工
作。 
此行的報告時段為 2010/07/29 11:30~13:00(論文內容如附件一所示),在與相關研
究人員交流之後發現,自己的研究一直受限在傳統考量的限制之下,因為網路的變化與
進步之快,若要針對這方面的研究,則必須比現有的技術再提出更強或創新的創意,來進
行研究,這也是經過了三天半以來的與會心得與想法，收獲良多。 
參加其它場次報告發現,人機互動於各地研究的領域廣泛,除了以生理或心理的層
面去探討之外,更是延伸至其它相關的應用層面。其中,不難發現,多數的研究主題著重
於現今熱門的產品,如:手機、數位相機、數位攝影機或遊戲界面…等,透過現有的產品
進行實質上使用時的問題或特色分析,來得到較為符合實際需求的界面設計要點與應用,
雖然各研究中心於不同應用領域的研究領域不盡相同,但所使用的方法論及研究結果都
是可以相互驗証或經驗分享的。大部份的研究,都著重於 3D界面的設計技術或者是網站
架構的呈現為主,進行深度的研究探討。經過此三天的議程,更讓我體會到對於人機互動
的研究之深度思考。 
二、與會心得 
經過六天的研討會參與,不但於自己報告的內容與主題上得到了開放性的討論與分
享學習之外,更學習到不同研究人員所針對的人機互動考量點,無論是界面設計、使用者
中心設計與考量、量測方式與模式、虛擬實境研究、特定族群使用者的界面設計考量…
等,所有相關使用者皆全面考量加諸研究,讓所有的產品能達到最符合所有使用者需求
之設計，同時建立研究進行時的正確觀念，增加自己未來在研究上的深度與廣度的思
考，收益良多，是一個相當充實的議會之行。 
現階段的獨立研究過程之中,經過本次研討會的洗禮,發現,研究的方向還不夠創新,
因為初步自行獨立研究的因素,導致自己拘限自己的研究,無法達到良好的創新思考,另
外,因為研究環境的關係,研究的主題似乎也沒有突破現有的限制,這個部份則是來自於
 - 4 - 
In recent years there has been an increasing respect for green issues, which has been addressed in various products/services as 
well. It is rare if not impossible to find a Web site to support green customers’ decision process on electronic commerce (EC). 
A good understanding of users’ online behavior is needed for developing a Web site to provide needed information. The aims 
of this study are: (1) to develop an experiment for the study of the interaction between university students and a Web-based 
system in information search from their e-shopping behavior; and (2) to acquire university students’ self-perceived cognition 
of GEP information, information needs of electronic products, and gender information by using a questionnaire. Web site 
design, interface design, and gender different have been addressed based on the results of study for developing a useful GEP 
Web site. 
KEYWORDS:  
User-Web interaction; Information needs; Gender difference. 
1. INTRODUCTION 
The Internet may offer a wide range of communication, information and entertainment services. More and 
more companies and government organizations are developing Web sites to convey green information in the 
efforts of establishing an international image and reinforcing people's environmental values. Complete and clear 
related information provided by such Web sites may influence the Internet user’s willingness to buy the green 
products (Huang et al., 2009). However, rarely can one find a Web site catering to the needs of consumers 
searching for green products. For enhancing Internet users’ green awareness and promoting green electronic 
products (GEP), the aims of this study are: (1) to develop an experiment for the study of the interaction between 
university students and a Web-based system in information search from their e-shopping behavior; and (2) to 
acquire university students’ self-perceived cognition of GEP information, information needs of electronic 
products, and gender information by using a questionnaire.  
2. RELEVANT LITERATURE 
The differences in various aspects of Internet usage, green consumption or environmental sociology across 
demographic groups are areas of interest for research because demographic attributes were found to influence an 
individuals’ actions before they engage in a given behavior, gender, age, and income are among the important 
factors found to affect Internet usage (such as Potosky, 2007; Jackson et al., 2008; and so on). The factors of 
gender, age, education, political affiliation and long working hours are found to affect their green consumption. 
Finally, gender and age are found to influence environmental behavior. As of March 2010, more than 15.8 
million people, 68.94% of the total population in the Taiwan have Internet access. Furthermore, 99.45% of the 
population in ages 15 to 19 and 97.24% of the population in ages 20 to 24 are actively using the internet (Taiwan 
Network Information Center [TNIC], 2010). It can be seen that young adults are the major part of internet users 
and will be the next generation of online consumers in Taiwan.  
The usability or HCI criteria are important in making the customer’s interaction with the Web site a 
satisfying one through the Web-based interface. It requires a Web browser, and has a cross platform feature. 
 - 6 - 
 
Figure 1. Filtered and integrated GEPs information for each stage of information needs  
In order to facilitate Web users achieving their goals with effectiveness, efficiency and satisfaction when 
using the GEP Web site, four functions have been considered in this study. The first is providing better 
hierarchical and keyword search tools to assist users to retrieve wanted information effectively and efficiently. 
The second is a social and collaborative discussion forum function. The third is a comparison tool to compare 
specific criteria for specific items or to provide cross-search functionality with multiple comparison choices. The 
fourth is a recording tool to provide users with the ability to easily organize important green information from 
Web sources into his/her own e-notebook and to share the information along with their experience to other 
internet users if desired.  
The gender differences have been found. Based on the results, females pay more attention on green 
information as they find the questions more important than males. Males believe more in themselves as being 
capable to decide on GEPs and as such find the green information as less important, whereas females do not 
have such preconceptions and will integrate information more readily during the decision process. The 
importance of green information is the GEPs’ shorter life, lower quality, reduced warranty and product 
promotion. These can be hi-lighted in a GEP Web site to enhance the female users shopping experience and 
especially help to promote GEPs for females. Providing information regarding after sales services, marketability, 
and ability to find GEPs would be more beneficial to males based on the results of the survey.  
5. CONCLUSION 
A new Web site design has been proposed to provide filtered and integrated products information based on the 
stages of users’ needs to assist user’s Web information search and to avoid receiving unnecessary/repeat 
information, inefficient interaction with Web-based system and information overload. From the results of the 
study, information needs based on gender differences have to be taken into account in the development of a 
green electronic Web site. The current study contributes a new idea for developing a Web site providing useful 
information and specific information needs of green information, electronic products, and GEP for females and 
males.  
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS  
The authors would like to express their gratitude to National Science Council of Taiwan for the funding under 
the grant number NSC-98-2221-E-161-004-. 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
