 1 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
□期中進度報告 
期末報告 
 
以區間分析進行無線網路系統分散式定位、編隊控制與決策之研究 
 
 
計畫類別：個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-006-194-MY3 
執行期間：98年 8月 1日至 101年 7月 31日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立成功大學 電機工程學系 
 
計畫主持人：莊智清 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：陳育暄、高彩齡、陳聿祺 
 
 
 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另含下列出國報告，共 _1_ 份： 
□移地研究心得報告 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國 101 年 10 月 15 日 
附件一 
 3 
needed so that the task can be performed more efficiently. The overall project is to investigate localization, 
formation control, and decision making issues in WSNs. Since the operation in a WSN is subject to a 
significant amount of uncertainties including modeling errors and outliers in measurements, the project adopts 
the interval analysis approach for the design of robust and distributed localization, control, and exploration 
methods.   
 
2. Objectives 
 
The research objective is to investigate the distributed localization, formation control, and decision 
making processes in a WSN environment. In previous mid-term reports, some results pertaining to satellite 
navigation and localization and remote sensing applications have been reported. The report emphasizes on 
two subjects, namely, development of outlier-detection scheme for enhanced localization capability and 
development of multi-robot active SLAM for efficient exploration.    
 
3. Related Work  
 
To establish a low-cost, easily implementable and high-reliable indoor positioning capability, WSNs can 
utilize the received signal strength (RSS) measurements as the baseline for range determination and location 
estimation. Nevertheless, the phenomena of radio signal in indoor environments are complex, which makes 
the indoor localization a challenging issue. Wireless positioning technology can be roughly divided into two 
categories: radio positioning, which includes GPS, RFID, WiFi, ultrawideband (UWB), and non-radio 
positioning, which includes video cameras (optical), infrared, ultrasound, and inertial systems 0. It’s 
worthwhile to note that there still exists an emerging and important localization technique that integrates the 
radio with non-radio techniques, which is called the sensor fusion or heterogeneous sensor network. Indeed, 
each type of sensor has its defects and the sensor fusion is a way to integrate the sensors to yield improved 
performance. To enhance the overall reliability and accuracy of the heterogeneous sensor network in 
localization, the basic problem in signal reliability of each sensor needs to be addressed. Although sensors can 
be well-calibrated, each measurement is subject to measurement noise and systematic error. In particular, 
outliers to sensor data need to be detected and precluded in the signal processing stage for otherwise the 
results are prone to significant errors. One objective of the research is dedicated to address the outlier 
detection problem for the localization in a WSN-based indoor environment.  
 
In addition to localization, it is highly desired that autonomous robots can be employed to explore a 
unknown region. In a multi-robot exploration task, robots are guided to efficiently and effectively cover the 
environment with their sensors. In many exploration problems, the map of the environment is not available 
and the robot is required to perform simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), in which the robot 
attempts to build a map of the environment and at the same time use the map to deduce its location. It is well 
known that multi-robot systems have several advantages over single-robot systems, such as faster task 
completion, more efficient localization, and higher fault tolerance. This study combines the concepts of 
SLAM, active path planning, and cooperation among multiple robots to develop an algorithm for exploration. 
 5 
Receiver 
X Y
X1 Y1
X2 Y2
Xn Yn
Preprocessing 
Receiver Preprocessing Fingerprinting Method
RSS1 RSS2 RSSm 1 2 m
Robust 
Filtering
(RSS1, RSS2,…,RSSm)
σ σ σ
Off-line phase
Real-time phase
Estimated
Location 
(RSS1, RSS2,…,RSSm)
Location–RSS–Deviation  Database
 
Figure 1 Flowchart of fingerprinting method 
 
3.2 Active SLAM 
 In existing exploration methods, robot poses are usually assumed to be known, which is not true in many 
real situations. To account for unknown robot poses, several SLAM methods [5, 6, 41, 46] have been 
developed. However, these algorithms are passive in the sense that the trajectory of the robot is not actively 
controlled. It should be noted that the path control strategy can have a substantial impact on the quality of the 
resulting map. Therefore, active SLAM methods have been recently proposed to efficiently explore the 
environment while collecting data to maximize the accuracy of the resulting map [18, 23, 24, 42]. Most active 
SLAM methods only consider the single-robot case. It is desirable to extend active SLAM to multi-robot 
scenarios. In multi-robot exploration, the core problem is to choose appropriate target points for robots so that 
they simultaneously explore different regions of the environment. In existing multi-robot exploration methods, 
the coordination level varies from no coordination [49] to intensive cooperation [41, 46, 52]. Several methods 
including integer programming and auction scheme have been proposed for the assignment of robots to targets 
[41, 52]. The idea of spreading multiple robots for better coverage was explored in [5, 6, 41]. However, the 
robot dispersion is only at the local level. In [48], under the assumption of the availability of the map, a global 
optimization strategy for the minimization of the variance of regional waiting time and the variance of 
regional exploration percentage was investigated.  
 
 In multi-robot exploration, existing methods typically assume that the robots under consideration are 
within the communication range [31, 34, 40, 45]. More recently, a role-based exploration strategy has been 
proposed that allows robots to explore beyond the communication range [13]. Robots either act as explorers or 
as relays to explore the environment and return information to a central command center. Rendezvous points 
between explorers and their corresponding relays are dynamically set during the exploration process. 
Extensions of such a method can be found in [14, 15], in which a new rendezvous point selection procedure 
and dynamic team hierarchies are adopted, respectively. Existing cooperative methods that allow robots to go 
beyond the communication range typically assume that perfect sensor data and localization are available. 
Existing exploration approaches are briefly summarized in Table 1. Recently, active SLAM algorithms for 
multi-robot exploration in unknown environments were proposed in [21, 30, 44]. In [44], the target point is 
chosen by optimizing a utility function that accounts for proximity to the robot, proximity to a free edge, 
small robot configuration uncertainty, high landmark identification probability and ability to see features like 
corners. The method considers multiple robots but only one robot is allowed to move at any time while the 
rest are sensing. The paper [21] utilized a potential field method with several basic behaviours. The robots are 
 7 
a set of data { }iP p= , let median( )P  be the median. The MAD or MAD scale estimate R  is defined as: 
 
( ){ }1.4826 median medianiR p P= × −   
Here the factor 1.4826 is chosen so that the expected value of R  is equal to the standard deviation for 
normally distributed data. The MAD scale estimate is easy to evaluate and the median is only a simple sorting 
procedure; therefore, it is suitable for the resource-limited WSNs.  
 
Kernel Density Estimator 
 In order to estimate the distribution of sensor observations as well as overcome the aforementioned 
shortcoming of the Hampel filter, the paper utilizes kernel density estimator (KDE) to estimate the data 
distribution of the data sequence. Kernel density estimation is a non-parametric way of estimating the 
probability density function of a random variable [36]. The estimator ˆ ( )f p  is defined as: 
1ˆ ( ) ( )
i
i
h P
f p k p p
P ∈
= −∑  
where P  is the data sample set and P  is the number of samples. Each ip  is a sample drawn from some 
distribution with unknown density f  and the estimator attempts to estimate the distribution through a kernel 
function ( )k ⋅ [38]. The project adopts the Epanechnikov kernel for KDE as the kernel is optimal in the 
minimum variance sense while its efficiency loss is comparatively low among other kernel functions. The 
Epanechnikov kernel function is  
23 1 1 , 1
( ) 4
0, otherwise
p p
k p B B B
   − <    =    


 
where B  is the bandwidth of the kernel function [51]. In the RSS-based localization problems, the observed 
RSS data from each sensor can be treated as random data samples. The KDE can then be employed to 
estimate the distribution of the RSS values. The research exploits the properties of Hampel filter and KDE to 
develop a new method for finding outliers in large datasets. The estimated density from KDE can prevent the 
Hampel filter from having a zero MAD. On the other hand, the Hampel filter can identify multiple outliers 
when the density of outliers is relatively high in the KDE. 
 
Proposed Outlier Detection Technique  
 Although outliers are often considered as erroneous data, it may also carry some important information; 
as a result, the outlier detection technique should cope with the outliers instead of just removing them. Storing 
the entire history of RSS data is not recommended in WSN applications due to the increasing memory 
requirements. To this end, the paper presents a general framework for estimating the data distribution in view 
of adjustable window operation. In the RSS-based localization problems, the values of RSS are integers and 
the values of RSS from a fixed node is usually not a constant as time varies, as shown in Figure 2. Thus, the 
 9 
confidence indicator is low and the data must be used judiciously.  
 
 An example of the relationship between inputs and outputs of the proposed outlier detection technique is 
illustrated in Figure 4 in which the square-dash line is the raw RSS measurement data which are the inputs of 
the outlier detection scheme, and the asterisk-solid line is the confidence indicators of the data. In the figure, 
the confidence indicator of data 431 is significantly lower due to the fact that the RSS measurement is notably 
higher than other data in the dataset.  
 
410 415 420 425 430 435 440 445 450
56
58
60
62
R
S
S
I
Data
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
C
on
fid
en
ce
 
Figure 4  Inputs and outputs of the proposed scheme 
 
 In the localization procedure, the proposed outlier detection scheme can be applied in two ways: 
censoring sensor reading sequences and RSS database, respectively. The proposed outlier detection scheme 
can censor raw RSS sequences and give each reading a confidence indicator; then the fingerprinting methods 
can use the confidence indicators as weightings in the position determination process. The RSS database can 
also be censored by the proposed outlier detection scheme and the overall mechanism is described in the 
following section. 
 
Quality Control  
 The RSS database plays a critical role in the fingerprinting methods. However, in the indoor 
environments, the change of environment such as addition/removal of furniture or the variation of hardware 
such as low battery may affect the quality of RSS database seriously. In order to overcome this problem and 
maintain the localization quality, a quality control scheme should be employed for the warning of suspicious 
RSS distribution in the database. The flow chart of the quality control system based on outlier detection is 
shown in Figure 5. During the quality control, the outlier detection scheme is applied on the RSS distribution 
map with respect to the two axes; and then the confidence of RSS data below certain threshold ε  will be 
viewed as suspicious data. In the establishment of the RSS distribution map, additional measurements can 
then be conducted at those reference points upon which the RSS data are suspicious. The newly obtained RSS 
data are examined by the outlier detection scheme again and the RSS distribution map is updated once the 
RSS data with a high confidence are obtained. 
 11 
pose error covariance of the r -th robot and the position error covariance of the i -th landmark, respectively; 
R  and L  are respectively the number of robots and the number of landmarks observed; and α  is a 
pre-defined threshold.  
 
Proposed Active SLAM Approach 
 During the exploration process, robots simultaneously perform SLAM and decide upon which actions to 
take next. To this end, the extended Kalman filter (EKF)-based SLAM algorithm [9] with a feature map is 
adopted. In existing exploration methods, SLAM algorithms with occupancy grid maps are often employed. 
However, in large-scale outdoor environments with few landmarks/structures, SLAM with a high-resolution 
grid map may be difficult to apply for real-time exploration due to its high computational load. In such 
environments, feature-based SLAM algorithms are a better choice. It should be noted that other SLAM 
algorithms ([16], for example) can also be used. 
 
For the determination of the optimal solution to the constrained optimization problem (1), a process with an 
exploration phase and a relocalization phase was proposed in [21, 44]. In the exploration phase, robots with 
low pose and map uncertainty cooperatively explore the environment with a balance of information gain, 
localization quality, and navigation cost. A global optimization strategy is integrated to allocate the 
exploration task equally among robots. Whenever the robot pose and map uncertainty estimated by a robot 
exceeds a pre-defined threshold, the robot switches to the relocalization phase to revisit previously seen 
landmarks or to meet other robots in order to relocalize itself. During the exploration process, robots may 
switch between the two phases to minimize the exploration time while maintaining the accuracy of the 
estimates of the robot poses and the map. To prevent the robots from oscillating between the two phases, an 
adaptive strategy is proposed to automatically adjust the threshold of the uncertainty constraints. A rendezvous 
technique is utilized to deal with the problem of limited communication. 
 
A flowchart of the proposed approach is shown in Figure 6. This flowchart is more general than the one 
presented in [30] in the sense that an integrated rendezvous scheme is developed for robots to 
explore/relocalize beyond the communication range. At any point in time, the task of a robot is determined to 
be either exploration or relocalization. If the exploration task is executed, an exploration target is selected for 
the robot. If the robot receives a meeting request from another robot, instead of proceeding to the exploration 
target, the robot responds to the request by moving to the meeting point or standing still. The robot then waits 
for the designated robot for a certain amount of time before returning to its exploration/relocalization task. 
Whenever the uncertainty of the robot pose and map exceeds a pre-defined threshold, the relocalization task is 
executed by determining a relocalization target for the robot. If the relocalization task involves another robot, 
a request is sent to that robot. If a robot moves out of communication range, it later returns to the rendezvous 
point, which is determined before leaving the group. In Figure 6, 0t  is the time at which a robot moves out of 
the communication range of other robots, τ  is the duration which robots are allowed to be out of 
communication range, and T  is the estimated time at which the robot can reach the rendezvous target. 
During the exploration process, SLAM operations are performed to obtain estimates of the robot poses and the 
map. A coarse occupancy grid map is also estimated for exploration and path planning. The procedure is 
repeated until the environment has been completely explored. 
 13 
borders, as illustrated in Figure 7. If the number of separate borders is less than the number of robots, the 
targets are divided into as many borders as available robots using the K-means clustering algorithm [10]. 
Secondly, an integer programming problem is solved to determine the optimal assignment from robots to 
borders that minimizes the total travelling distance. This global assignment plays an important role in 
distributing robots over the environment, which is a key requirement in many robot applications, such as 
search and rescue. Solving this integer programming problem does not take much time because the number of 
separate borders is usually small and the travelling distances are easily computed. If the number of separate 
borders is greater than the number of robots, some borders are left unassigned (referred to as free borders).  
 
 
Figure 7 Frontier cells, exploration points, and separate borders. 
 
 The global assignment from robots to borders attempts to disperse robots equally in the environment. 
However, robot separation may degrade the efficiency of robot localization because the robots cannot help 
one another to relocalize. Therefore, besides being allowed to freely choose a target from its border or free 
borders, a robot is also allowed to choose, with a penalty, a target from other robots’ borders. The penalty 
coefficient is defined as: 
 ( )
1,  if target  belongs to -th robot's border or free borders
,
, otherwise
t r
r tβ
δ

= 

 (2) 
where 1δ ≥  is a mission-dependent constant. For example, if the robots should stay close enough to help one 
another to relocalize, δ  is kept close to 1. Otherwise, if the process and measurement errors are small and 
the landmark density is sufficiently high, δ  is set to be much greater than 1 to force the robots to disperse. 
The penalty coefficient defined above is then utilized in the assignment of robots to targets as an integration of 
global information into the local level. Besides the global information, the expected payoffs and costs 
associated with moving to the proposed locations must be calculated. Assume that there are eR  robots and 
T  targets under consideration. eR  can be smaller than R  because some robots may not be in the 
exploration phase at that time. In the exploration phase, an eR T×  assignment matrix A  , which contains 
only 0’s and 1’s, is determined. When ( , ) 1r t =A , the r -th robot is assigned to move to the t -th target. Each 
robot is assigned to exactly one target, and each target has at most one robot assigned to it. The assignment 
matrix is determined to maximize the following objective function: 
 15 
navigation 2NC  is given by the minimal path length from the position of the r -th robot to the selected 
landmark or to the meeting point with another robot. The loss of efficiency L , if any, is due to the 
interruption of the exploration task of another robot involved in the relocalization phase. The distance D  
from the relocalization target to the nearest exploration point (the nearest frontier) is used to assess the effort 
needed to go back to perform exploration. More specifically, robots prefer relocalization targets which are 
close to the frontier. Once the robot is forced to enter the relocalization phase, the objective function 
relocalizationJ  in (4) as a function of all candidate target points is optimized. After determining the target point, 
the robot is controlled to move to the target point. If control actions involve another robot, a request is sent to 
the designated robot to perform the relocalization operation. 
 
Adaptive threshold selection 
 With a fixed uncertainty threshold α  in (1) as in [30], robots may get stuck in regions with few or no 
landmarks by repeatedly switching between the exploration and relocalization phases, as illustrated in Figure 
8. In this figure, a robot is in its exploration phase, moving from the left side towards exploration point A. At 
point B, its pose and map uncertainty exceeds α ; it thus switches to the relocalization phase and heads to a 
good landmark (point C). At point D, its pose and map uncertainty becomes small enough to switch back to 
the exploration phase. Assume that the new exploration point is still A; the robot thus moves towards this 
point. At point E, the robot pose and map uncertainty again exceeds α , so the robot switches to the 
relocalization phase and heads to point C. The robot then oscillates between the exploration and relocalization 
phases. 
 
 
Figure 8 Robot getting stuck in a region with few landmarks. 
 
 To overcome this problem, the uncertainty threshold α  in the proposed approach is allowed to 
temporarily increase in such a situation to allow the robot to pass this region. In particular, at point B, the 
robot stores the current exploration point A as an unreached exploration point and at point D it stores the 
current relocalization point C as an old relocalization point. Having stored the unreached exploration point 
and the old relocalization point, at point E, the robot knows that the situation is the same as that at point B. 
Therefore, it increases the threshold α  to pass this region. In the proposed approach, each robot has its own 
uncertainty threshold and only the threshold of the concerned robot is increased.  
 17 
 
 After moving out of communication for a preset time τ , robots have to return to a pre-arranged meeting 
point to exchange information obtained during that time in order to avoid overlap in exploration. The meeting 
point should be chosen such that: (i) the localization quality at this point is high, (ii) total travelling distance 
from all robot locations to this point is small, and (iii) distances to exploration targets excluding current 
targets of all robots are small. More specifically, landmarks with low position uncertainties and the central 
location of the robot team can serve as target points. Similar to the exploration and relocalization phases, the 
target point for rendezvous is determined by optimizing an objective function that is related to the utility of 
localizability 3LU , cost of navigation 3NC , and distance to the nearest exploration point D  (excluding 
current destinations of all robots). The objective function of the i -th target is given by: 
 3 3 3 3 3rendezvous L L N N DJ w U w C w D= − −  (6) 
where 3Lw , 3Nw ,  and 3Dw  are weighting coefficients. The cost of navigation 3NC  is given by the total 
travelling distance from the locations of all robots to the target point. 3LU  and D  are similar to those in (4). 
 
 When a robot is about to move out of communication range, the objective function rendezvousJ  in (6) as a 
function of all candidate target points is optimized. All robots then store this location as well as the current 
time and begin to explore beyond the communication range within a preset time τ .  
 
 When gathering, robots may not need to reach the predetermined rendezvous point to reestablish 
communication. The procedure for returning to the rendezvous point for a two-robot team is described as 
follows. Let O be the rendezvous point obtained by maximizing (6) and 0t  be the time at which a robot 
moves out of communication range. To ensure that the two robots can communicate again at the latest at time 
0t τ+ , each robot (with its own estimated map) manages to return to its rendezvous target, i.e., a point on the 
circumference centered at O with diameter 2cR . In Figure 10, A and B are rendezvous targets for Robot 1 
and Robot 2, respectively.  
 19 
 
Figure 11 Gathering procedure for a 3-robot team. 
 
 The rendezvous phase ends whenever all robots reestablish the wireless mobile network. After 
exchanging information collected during the period of exploration beyond communication range, robots return 
to the exploration or relocalization phases. To ensure robustness with respect to robot failure, when returning 
to the rendezvous point, a robot waits for other robots for a specified time before continuing its 
exploration/relocalization mission. 
 
5. Results and Discussions 
5.1 Localization Experiment 
 In this section, a WSN is setup to evaluate the proposed localization technique in an office environment. 
Both static localization and dynamic tracking are considered. 
 
Localization Platform 
 A WSN is composed of a set of nodes that are capable of performing sensing, computation, and 
communication. The WSN architecture for the localization experiment is depicted in Figure 12. The 
coordinator is to coordinate all devices for the establishment of the network. The coordinator also serves as 
the communication interface between the server and other nodes. The anchors in the network are located at 
known position and the mobile node is to be located. In the localization experiment, each unknown or mobile 
node searches the anchors in the area and broadcasts the requests of RSS measurements. The anchors measure 
the RSS values when they receive the requests from the mobile nodes. The RSS values are then transmitted to 
the server for processing.  
C 
O Rc Rc/2 
R1 
R2 
R3 
A 
B 
B’ 
 21 
distribution. Further, by adopting the Kriging method, the database is enhanced to cover the whole area. Such 
a database is termed as the refined database hereafter. In contrast, the database that is established without 
using the outlier detection scheme is termed as the original database. 
Static Localization Experiments 
 In the static localization experiment, mobile nodes are placed in the area to collect RSS measurements 
with respect to anchors. Once the data are obtained, the outlier detection and kernel density estimation 
schemes are applied to tag each measurement with a confidence indicator. The data are then compared against 
the database by using Bayesian inference to obtain the maximum a posteriori estimate of the position. To 
assess the performance of the quality control scheme, the static localization experimental results are obtained 
based on the original database and the refined database, respectively. The static localization result based on 
original database is depicted in Figure 15. In the figure, the green circles represent the true positions of 
unknown nodes, the magenta asterisks represent the estimated locations, the black lines are the error distances 
between true positions and estimated positions and the blue triangles are the positions of anchors. In contrast, 
when the outlier detection scheme is applied on the received RSS data, the localization results based on the 
refined database are shown in Figure 16. 
0 200 400 600 800 1000
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000
1100
1
23
4
5
67
8
9
1011
12
X (cm)
Y
 (c
m
)
Static Localization Experiments
 
Figure 15 Localization results without outlier detection 
 
0 200 400 600 800 1000
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000
1100
1
23
4
5
67
8
9
1011
12
X (cm)
Y
 (c
m
)
Static Localization Experiments
 
Figure 16 Localization results with outlier detection 
 
 By comparing the two experimental results, it is clear that with the outlier detection scheme in enhancing 
the refined database and improving the data quality, the results with the outlier detection are better than those 
without the outlier detection. The average localization errors are summarized in Table 2. The improvement in 
 23 
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1
23
4
5
67
8
9
1011
12
X (cm)
Y
 (c
m
)
Result of Tracking
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1
23
4
5
67
8
9
1011
12
X (cm)
Y
 (c
m
)
Result of Tracking
 
Figure 18 Estimated Trajectory Comparison of Path 1 
 
 The results of Path 2 tracking experiment are shown in Figure 19. In the figure, the top plate is the result 
without outlier detection and the bottom plate is the result with outlier detection. The former leads to an 
average tracking error of 118.01 centimeters, while the latter results in an error of 65.91 centimeters. The 
improvement is about 46.5%. Similar results are also observed in Path 3, which are not included due to space 
limitation. 
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1
23
4
5
67
8
9
1011
12
X (cm)
Y
 (c
m
)
Result of Tracking
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1
23
4
5
67
8
9
1011
12
X (cm)
Y
 (c
m
)
Result of Tracking
 
Figure 19 The Estimated Trajectory of Path 2 
Discussions 
 In the resource-limited WSN, the computational cost is a critical factor. As the computational cost of the 
fingerprinting method depends on the size of the RSS map or, equivalently, the number of reference points, 
the localization performance as a function of the number of reference points is discussed.  
 
 Figure 20 depicts the localization error as a function of reference or candidate nodes. In this analysis, 
three outlier detection techniques, namely, the Hampel filter (dotted line), KDE (dashed line), and the 
proposed Hampel+KDE filter (solid line) are compared. It is shown that when the proposed scheme is 
employed, the positioning error can be significantly reduced when there are only a few reference points. This 
is due to the fact that high-confidence trustworthy data are processed with a heavy weighting and the 
localization result is not misled.  This implies that the proposed outlier detection scheme meets the 
 25 
estimation of landmark position is evaluated in a similar manner.  Let ,l jq  be the true position of the l -th 
landmark of the -thj run and let ,ˆ ( )l j Kq  be the final estimate of ,l jq . The landmark estimation error is 
given by , , ,ˆ ( )l j l j l j K= −q q q . The RMS error in landmark estimation is given by: 
 
2
,
1 1
1 1J L
l j
j lJ L
η
= =
 
=  
  
∑ ∑ q
 
Global Exploration 
 In this simulation, the environment is assumed to contain 25 landmarks located in an area of 160 m × 120 
m. The four methods listed in Table 3 were tested. Figures 21 and 22 show snapshots of the results and the 
obtained trajectories, respectively. At the beginning, all robots are in the exploration phase. At epoch 639, the 
pose and map uncertainty of Robot 2 exceeds the predefined threshold, and hence it switches to the 
relocalization phase by rendezvousing with Robot 1 at point A (Figure 21(a)). As shown in Fig. 8, after 
meeting Robot 1 at A at epoch 694, the position errors of Robot 2 are reduced. The two robots then return to 
the exploration phase. The proposed global exploration strategy attempts to distribute robots over the 
environment, as shown in Figure 21(a), where each separate border is assigned to a robot. 
 
Table 3 Summary of methods used for testing global exploration strategy. 
Method Use of localizability 
utility  in the 
exploration phase 
Use of 
relocalization 
phase 
Use of global 
exploration 
strategy 
A [5, 6] No No No 
B [24] Yes No No 
C [30] Yes Yes No 
D (proposed) Yes Yes Yes 
 
 (a)     (b) 
Figure 21 Snapshots of typical results for proposed method in rectangular environment. (a) Robot trajectories, borders, and 
landmarks and (b) occupancy grid map. 
 
 27 
 
Figure 23 Typical results for proposed method in T-shaped environment. 
 
Table 5 Position errors and exploration time for T-shaped environment. 
Method Robot RMS 
error (m) 
Landmark 
RMS error 
(m)  
Exploration 
time 
(epochs) 
e  η  
A 0.276 ± 0.132 0.216 ± 0.081 6279 ± 488 
B  0.288 ± 
0.132 
0.246 ± 0.123 6476 ± 684 
C 0.266 ± 0.093 0.228 ± 0.095 5185 ± 899 
D 0.382 ± 0.182 0.352 ± 0.170 4587 ± 401 
 
Adaptive uncertainty threshold 
 
 In this simulation, an environment with 59 landmarks and an area of  200 m × 200 m was used. The 
proposed method is compared with the method in [30], in which the uncertainty threshold in (1) is fixed. 
Typical results obtained for the two methods are shown in Figures 24 and 25, respectively. For simulation 
analysis, 20 independent runs for each method were performed. Table 6 compares the robot position errors, 
landmark errors, and exploration time for these two methods. For the method [30], the threshold is kept small 
all the time, and thus Robot 1 and Robot 3 get stuck in regions with sparse landmarks, leading to a long 
exploration time. In this case, the oscillation between exploration and relocalization phases significantly 
degrades the estimation quality. For the proposed method, the uncertainty thresholds of Robot 1 and Robot 3 
are temporarily increased to allow the robots to pass these regions, and thus the exploration time is much 
smaller. Moreover, these two robots have a chance to rendezvous with each other or with Robot 2 in the 
relocalization phase, and thus they obtain better estimates. Therefore, the proposed method outperforms the 
method in [30] in terms of both exploration time and estimation error. 
 
 29 
Table 7 Summary of methods used for testing limited communication range. 
Method Use of localizabilty 
utility and 
relocalization phase 
Rendezvous 
[6] No No 
[30] Yes No 
Proposed Yes Yes 
 
 
Figure 26 Typical results for method in [21]. 
 
  
Figure 27. Typical results for proposed method. 
 
Table 8 Position errors and exploration time for the three methods. 
Method Robot RMS 
error (m) 
Landmark 
RMS error (m)  
Exploration 
time 
(epochs) e  η  
[6] 1.907 ± 1.550 0.622 ± 1.070 4303 ± 583 
[30]  0.954 ± 0.451 0.189 ± 0.123 5090 ± 404 
Proposed  0.849 ± 0.428 0.341 ± 0.257 4279 ± 128 
 
The results show that the method in [6] yields the largest errors. For the methods in [6] and [30], robots are 
allowed to move out of communication range without rendezvous, and thus there can be overlap in 
 31 
Proc. International Conference on Robotics and Automation, Vol. 2, pp. 1810-1817, 2002. 
[10] J.A. Hartigan and M.A. Wong, “A k-means clustering algorithm,” Journal of Applied Statistics, Vol.28, pp. 
100-108, 1979. 
[11] V. J. Hodge and J. Austin, “A Survey of Outlier Detection Methodologies,” Artificial Intelligence Review, 
vol.22, pp. 85-126, 2004. 
[12] G. Hollinger and S. Singh, “Multi-Robot Coordination with Periodic Connectivity,” in IEEE International 
Conference on Robotics and Automation, pp. 4457-4462, 2010. 
[13] J. Hoog, S. Cameron, and A. Visser, “Role-based Autonomous Multi-Robot Exploration,” in Proc. of 
Computation World: Future Computing, Service Computation, Cognitive, Content, Patterns, pp. 482-487, 
2009. 
[14] J. Hoog, S. Cameron, and A. Visser, “Selection of Rendezvous Points for Multi-Robot Exploration in 
Dynamic Environments,” in Proc. International Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multi-Agent 
Systems, May 2010. 
[15] J. Hoog, S. Cameron, and A. Visser, “Dynamic Team Hierarchies in Communication-Limited 
Multi-Robot Exploration,” in IEEE International Workshop on Safety‚ Security‚ and Rescue Robotics, 
July, 2010. 
[16] A. Howard, "Multi-robot Simultaneous Localization and Mapping using Particle Filters," Int. Journal of 
Robotics Research, Vol. 25, No. 12, pp.1243-1256, 2006. 
[17] S. Ito and N. Kawaguchi, “Bayesian Based Location Estimation System Using Wireless LAN,” in 
Proceedings of IEEE 3rd Intl. Conf. on Pervasive Computing and Communications Workshops, 2005. 
[18] X. Ji, H. Zhang, D. Hai, and Z. Zheng, “A Decision-Theoretic Active Loop Closing Approach to 
Autonomous Robot Exploration and Mapping,” RoboCup 2008: Robot Soccer World Cup XII, Lecture 
Notes in Computer Science, pp. 507-518, 2009. 
[19] J. C. Juang, T. K. Weng, P. V. Cuong, C. Y. Hsu, Y. H. Lee, and S. H. Su, “Experimental Assessment of 
Wireless Sensor Network Localization Techniques,” in Proceedings of 10th International Conference on 
Control, Automation, Robotics and Vision, Hanoi, Vietnam, 2008. 
[20] J. C. Juang, Y. C. Chen, W. C. Sun, C. L. Chu, and J. C. Wang, “Development of an RSS-Based Sensor 
Network Localization Method: A Kriging Approach,” in Proceedings of the 5th Workshop on Ad Hoc and 
Sensor Networks, Hsinchu, 2009. 
[21] M. Juliá, O. Reinoso, A. Gil, M. Ballesta, and L. Payá, “Behaviours based Multi-Robot Integrated 
Exploration,” International Journal of Innovative Computing, Information and Control, Vol. 7, No. 9, pp. 
5225-5244, 2011.  
[22] K. W. Kolodziej and J. Hjelm, Local Positioning Systems: LBS Applications and Services, Taylor & 
Francis Group, CRC Press, 2006. 
[23] C. Leung, S. Huang, and G. Dissanayake, “Active SLAM Using Model Predictive Control and Attractor 
Based Exploration,” in Proc. IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, 
2006, pp. 5026-5031. 
[24] A. A. Makarenko, S. B. Williams, F. Bourgault, and H. F. Durrant-Whyte, “An Experiment in Integrated 
Exploration,” in Proc. IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pp. 
534-539, 2002. 
[25] R. Mannings, Ubiquitous Positioning, Artech House , 2008. 
[26] G. Mao, B. Fidan, and B. D. Anderson, “Wireless Sensor Network Localization Techniques,” Computer 
 33 
[45] J. Vazquez and C. Malcolm, “Distributed Multirobot Exploration Maintaining a Mobile Network,” in 
Proc. IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Systems, Vol. 3, pp. 113–118, 2004. 
[46] R. Vincent, D. Fox. J. Ko, K. Konolige, B. Limketkai, B. Morisset, C. Ortiz, D. Schulz, and B. Steward, 
“Distributed Multirobot Exploration, Mapping, and Task Allocation,” Annals of Mathematics and 
Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 52, pp. 229-255, 2008. 
[47] R. Want, A. Hopper, V. Falcao, and J. Gibbons, “The Active Badge Location System,” ACM Transactions 
on Information Systems, Vol. 10, pp. 91-102, 1992. 
[48] L. Wu, D. Puig, and M. A. Garcia, “Balanced Multi-Robot Exploration through a Global Optimization 
Strategy,” Journal of Physical Agents, Vol. 4, No. 1, pp. 35-43, 2010. 
[49] B. Yamauchi, “Frontier-Based Exploration Using Multiple Robots,” in Proc. 2nd International 
Conference on Autonomous and Agents, pp. 47-53, 1998. 
[50] J. Yick, B. Mukherjee, and D. Ghosal, “Wireless Sensor Network Survey,” Computer Networks, Vol. 52, 
Issue 12, pp.2292-2330, 2008. 
[51] Y. Zhang, N. Meratnia, and P. Havinga, “Outlier Detection Techniques for Wireless Sensor Networks: A 
Survey,” IEEE Communication Surveys & Tutorials, Vol. 12, Issue 2, Second Quarter 2010. 
[52] R. Zlot, A. Stentz, M. B. Dias, and S. Thayer, “Multi-Robot Exploration Controlled by a Market 
Economy,” in Proc. IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pp. 3016-3023, 2002. 
出席 EVS26會議報告 
 
莊智清 
成功大學電機工程系 
 
近年來，國際車壇之一項重要發展趨勢為纯電動車、混合動力車和燃料電池
車受到相當大之重視。本屆世界纯電動車、混合動力車和燃料電池車大會暨展覽
（EVS, Electric Vehicle Symposium, EVS）是目前世界電動車與新能源車輛最大規模、
最具影響力、最高層次的大會與展覽會，由世界電動車協會發起，由亞太、歐洲、
美洲相應電動車協會輪流主辦之盛會。本年是此一系列會議之第 26 屆。EVS-26
於2012年5月6-9日於美國洛杉磯會展中心(Los Angeles convention center)舉行。
本年度會議以 Great Mind, Think Electric為主題；聚集與會國家政界、企業界、科
技界、工程技術界與人文科學界的領袖人物、知名企業家、學者、教授、工程技
術人員，共同探討纯電動車、混合動力車和燃料電池車等新能源與潔能環保汽車、
汽車零組件最新技術發展與應用，研討和交流各國政策導向、發展策略、配套基
礎設施、產品市場營銷和產業升級等情況，探索產業尖端及先進技術之研發與創
新，並為國際電動車產業經濟技術合作搭建平台。至於與大會一起舉行之展覽會
則以整車、汽車零組件及基礎配套設施為主，展示各國最新技術成果及未來發展
趨勢，具有重要示範與引領之作用。 
本人於 5月 5日由桃園出發，經日本飛美國檀香山，稍事休息後轉往洛杉磯
出席會議。並於 5 月 7 日與學生共同發表論文題目為「Development of a 
Power/Control Module for Urban Intelligent Electric Vehicles」。於 5月 9日會議結束
後，搭乘 5月 10日由洛杉磯至桃園之飛機並於 5月 12日早上到達台灣。 
本次EVS-25會議有相當多場針對特定電動車相關主題進行之研討會或論壇，
此些研討會或論壇如附件一之議程所示。會議首日有三場論壇主題分別為" 
Position Electric Drive to Thrive: Transition to Mass Market"，"Who's Winning the 
 附件一 EVS-26會議議程 
 
May 6, 2012 
10:00 am - 2:00 pm Workshop: 
Position Electric Drive to Thrive: 
Transition to Mass Market  
2:30 pm - 4:30 pm Workshop: 
Who's Winning the Clean Energy 
Race? Spurring Public-Private 
Collaboration in Electric Vehicles  
1:30 pm -3:30 pm Workshop:  
Gen Next: Educating the Electric 
Vehicle Workforce  
 
May 7, 2012 
9:00am - 
11:30am 
Opening - Driving Forward: The Global Growth of Electric Transportation  
12:30pm - 
2:00pm 
A1: 
Battery-Electric 
Vehicles 
B1: Fuel 
Cell 
Vehicles 
C1: Charging 
and 
Infrastructure 
D1: 
Introduction & 
Demonstration 
E1: 
Marketing 
& Market 
Analysis 
F1: Drive & 
Propulsion 
Systems 
2:30pm - 
4:00pm 
A2: Batteries B2: Codes, 
Standards, 
Safety & 
Security 
C2: Charging 
and 
Infrastructure 
D2: Electric 
motors 
E2: Public 
Policy & 
Promotion 
F2: 
Innovative 
Consumer 
Business 
Models 
4:30pm - 
6:00pm 
Dialogue with the Experts: Poster Session 1 
 
 
 
 May 9, 2012 
8:00am - 
9:30am 
A7: 
Introduction & 
Demonstration 
B7: 
Marketing & 
Market 
Analysis 
C7: Charging 
and 
Infrastructure 
D7: Control, 
Measurement 
/ Auxiliary 
Components 
E7: Urban 
Electric 
Mobility 
F7: Medium 
& Heavy 
Duty 
Vehicles 
10:00am - 
11:30am 
The Global Campaign for Consumer EV Adoption  
 
  
EVS26 International Battery, Hybrid and Fuel Cell Electric Vehicle Symposium  1 
EVS26 
Los Angeles, California, May 6-9, 2012 
Development of a Power/Control Module for Urban 
Intelligent Electric Vehicles  
Jyh-Ching Juang and Yu-Chi Chen 
Department of Electrical Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, TAIWAN 
E-mail: juang@mail.ncku.edu.tw 
Abstract 
The paper is devoted to developing some key technologies of urban intelligent electric vehicles (EVs). Due 
to the worldwide environment and energy problems, the research on electric vehicle flourishes in last few 
years. Especially in the complex urban scenarios, how to meet the needs of energy efficiency and safety 
simultaneously becomes the primary issue of designing an urban EV. In this paper, the power/control 
module which adopts the control techniques is developed to fulfil these requirements of urban EVs. Besides, 
the power/control module is designed, implemented, integrated to the light-weight electric vehicle (LEV) 
platform, and tested to verify the functions and assess the performance. 
Keywords: intelligent light-weight vehicle, intelligent control, electric car, wireless charging 
1 Introduction 
The intelligent transportation system (ITS) 
has become a hot issue in recent years [2][3], 
especially the applications in the complex urban 
environments. In these topics, due to the 
environment and energy concerns, the electric 
vehicle has attracted lots of attention. The trends 
in electric vehicle design aim to achieve the goals 
of better energy efficiency, environmental 
friendliness, convenience, and safety. Indeed, 
future urban transportation vehicles are likely to 
integrate electric-driven, green and clean, 
satellite navigation, communication, and 
intelligent techniques while employing electric or 
hybrid electric means for propulsion.  
In order to fulfill the aforementioned 
requirements, the demanding tasks of an electric 
vehicle are the power management and 
intelligent control techniques. In the paper, the 
design and test of a power/control module for 
electric vehicles are discussed. The module of the 
electric vehicle facilitates efficient power 
management, intelligent control, and coordinated 
guidance functions. This research dedicates to 
develop key technologies for the eventual 
realization of intelligent light-weight electrical 
vehicles as well as the associated transportation 
environment.  
The paper is organized as following: section 2 
depicts the overall LEV platform architecture. The 
section 3 describes the methodologies which are 
used in the power/control module, and the 
experiments and results of the module are provided 
in the section 4. Finally, the section 5 concludes 
the whole paper. 
2 System Design 
The system block diagram of the vehicle is 
depicted in Figure 1. To meet the requirements of 
the next-generation electric vehicle, the 
power/control module is composed of three main 
subsystems: the high-efficient power management 
subsystem, the heterogeneous sensor fusion based 
autonomous navigation subsystem, and the 
intelligent control subsystem. 
EVS26 International Battery, Hybrid and Fuel Cell Electric Vehicle Symposium  3 
+
VoVFC S2
S1
L1
Ro
S3
L2
+
-
Co
D3
D2
D1 -
 
Figure 3 Equivalent Circuit of Mode I 
 
In the mode II ( 1t ~ 2t ), which has the 
equivalent circuit shown in Figure 4, switch S1, 
S2 and S3 are all in the cutoff state. Thus, 
inductance L1 provides its energy to the output 
load through diode D1 and D2, while inductance 
L2 provides its energy through diode D1 and D3.  
 
+
VoVFC S2
S1
L1
Ro
S3
L2
+
-
Co
D3
D2
D1 -
 
Figure 4 Equivalent Circuit of Mode II 
 
The voltage gain of the proposed interleaved 
buck-booster converter is about two times higher 
than conventional buck-boost converters. Besides, 
the interleaved frame used in the proposed 
topology converter can eliminate the output 
current ripples.  
 
3.2 Collision Warning System 
In the autonomous navigation subsystem, a 
collision warning strategy with collision risk 
indicator (CRI) is established to aid the drivers 
and the auto-driving function in the intelligent 
control subsystem. In this paper, we adopt the 
GPS module and wireless communication 
techniques to overcome some difficulties in 
complex urban crossroad situations. The sensors 
used in the sensor fusion based collision warning 
strategy are GPS, Zigbee wireless modules and 
the Laser modules. The controller computes the 
CRI by using the information from these sensors. 
Once the CRI is greater than a threshold [1], the 
controller will send a warning signal to 
decelerate and stop the vehicle or change the lane 
of the vehicle.  
The collision warning system utilizes the GPS 
receiver to get the position and direction of the 
vehicle, and the information of current speed 
comes from the encoder which is equipped at the 
motor of the rear wheels. Then the wireless 
communication modules transmit information of 
current vehicle, say vehicle B in Figure 7, 
including position, velocity, heading direction and 
time and simultaneously receive other vehicular 
information in the communication range. After 
receiving a vehicle’s information, say vehicle A in 
Figure 5, the relative velocity vector ( ), BV v θ , 
relative angle Aθ  and relative distance d  can be 
computed as shown in Figure 7.  
 
Figure 5 Collision Avoidance Strategy 
 
Meanwhile, the collision warning system will 
estimate the position which the vehicle will be 
after k  seconds. If estimated position of vehicle B 
after k  seconds is in the circle which uses the 
position of vehicle A after k  seconds as origin and 
R as radius, the collision warning system will 
calculate the collision risk indicator (CRI)[1] 
between two positions of two vehicles. The CRI 
can be defined as:  
51010 log
b c
CRI
r t
= ×
×
                  (1) 
where br  is the extended velocity vector of vehicle 
B, and ct  is the collision time which can be 
defined as: 
c
dt
v
=                              (2) 
where v  is the relative velocity between two 
vehicles: 
| |A Bv v v= −
                          (3) 
Once the CRI is higher than the threshold, the 
collision warning system will decelerate or stop 
the vehicle. 
3.3 Path Planning Strategy 
In our path planning strategy, we adopt the 
dendrogram to find the shortest path. We label 
EVS26 International Battery, Hybrid and Fuel Cell Electric Vehicle Symposium  5 
other. We use both equations to transform the 
same RGB image into two gray scale images and 
identify the lane only when the regions in both 
gray scale images are detected as lane. Once the 
lane is detected, one can control the steering-
wheel to navigate the vehicle. The methodology 
we use in this paper is that the trapezoid mask is 
adopted into the detected lane region.  
 
This paper uses the line between the gravity 
center of the trapezoid mask and the centered 
point of the bottom line as the heading direction 
of the vehicle. The gravity center of the trapezoid 
can be calculated by  
, iy iix ix y
i i
D VD V
C C
V V
= = ∑∑
∑ ∑
              (7) 
where the xC  and yC  are the coordinates of the 
gravity center of the trapezoid mask, i  addresses 
the index, the ixD  and iyD  are the coordinates of 
the four vertexes of the trapezoid mask and the 
iV  is the gray value of the vertex i .  
When the vehicle needs to turn left or right, 
the GPS and the electric compass can come into 
play. By applying equation (4), one can obtain 
the heading direction of the vehicle. Based on 
these sensor fusion techniques, the vehicle can 
identify the lane and the obstacles in the 
environment. Combined with the autonomous 
control system, the vehicle can reach the goal of 
autonomous navigation. By adopting the sensor 
fusion system, the block diagram of the auto-
driving function can be constructed, as shown in 
Figure 6.  
 
Front
Wheel
Main Motor 
Actuator
Interface 
Board
CompactRio
G-Sensor
PWM & 
Direction 
Signal
Low-pass 
filter
Vehicle 
Dynamic
H-Bridge 
Motor 
Driver
Other 
Sensor 
Data
Autonomous 
Controller
Notebook
Steering 
Motor
Manual 
Command
Main 
Motor
Rear
Wheel
 
Figure 6 Auto-Driving System Block Diagram 
 
4 Experiments and Results 
4.1 High-Efficiency Power Supply 
Subsystem Experiments 
The converter circuit of the proposed 
interleaved buck-boost converter is shown in 
Figure 7, and the efficiency of the proposed 
converter is shown in Figure 8. The red-dotted line 
in Figure 8 represents the circuit input voltage, 
which is the output voltage of the fuel cell, 
decreases when the load increases. As shown in 
Figure 8, the characteristic of the fuel cell make its 
output voltage 39.6 volt drop to 29.1 volt when it 
is fully loaded. The blue-dotted line is the 
efficiency curve, which shows that the highest 
efficiency of the circuit can reach 90.3% while it 
still maintain the efficiency at 85.7% when it is 
full-loaded. 
 
 
Figure 7 Converter Circuit 
 
PO (W)0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800
Efficiency (%)
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
Vin  (V) 
28
30
32
34
36
38
40
Efficiency Versur Output Power
DC Input Voltage Versus Output Power
 
Figure 8 Converter Efficiency 
 
Furthermore, we construct a hybrid power 
supply system, which is a part of the high-
efficiency power management subsystem, of our 
LEV platform with this proposed converter. The 
input voltage of the proposed converter ranges 
from 26 to 45 volts and then the converter stably 
EVS26 International Battery, Hybrid and Fuel Cell Electric Vehicle Symposium  7 
should turn left or right, the system will 
determine the direction of the vehicle through the 
captured images and the GPS information. Once 
the system determines the vehicle should turn 
right or left, the LED on the left of the user 
interface will turn on. 
 
 
Figure 13  LabView Interface of Auto-Driving 
Function 
 
The experimental path of the auto-driving 
function is shown in Figure 26. In the 
experiments, by adopting these sensor fusion 
control techniques, the LEV platform moved as 
planned smoothly both in the straight road and 
the turning sections.  
 
5 Conclusions 
In this paper, an LEV platform has established 
and equipped the high-efficiency power 
management subsystem, the autonomous 
navigation subsystem and the intelligent control 
subsystem. Besides, in this paper, we propose 
several techniques in the power/control modules 
which are also verified by the on-road 
experiments through the LEV platform. The 
proposed DC/DC interleaved buck-boost 
converter has been integrated into the hybrid 
power supply system and it has been verified 
through experiments of load variances. Also, the 
shortest path finding strategy and the collision 
warning system are designed and verified 
through on-road experiments. Finally, the 
proposed auto-driving techniques which includes 
the lane detection and sensor fusion techniques 
are establishes and tested through simulations 
and on-road tests. 
 
Acknowledgments 
The work was supported by the National Science 
Council, Taiwan under grant NSC 99-2218-E-006-
006. 
References 
[1]  Ueki, S. Tasaka, Y. Hatta, and H. Okada, 
“Vehicular-Collision Avoidance Support 
System (VCASS) by Inter-Vehicle 
Communications for Advanced ITS,” IEICE 
Transactions on Fundamentals of Electronics, 
Communications and Computer Sciences, Vol. 
E88-A, No. 7, pp. 1816-1823, 2005. 
[2] A. W. Krings and P. R. Merry, “A 
functionality based hierarchical model for 
survivable intelligent transportation systems,” 
IEEE Intelligent Transportation Systems 
Magazine, pp. 20-26, Apr. 2009. 
[3] J. Yi and R. Horowitz, “Macroscopic Traffic 
Flow Stability for Adaptive Cruise Controlled 
(ACC) Vehicle,” Proceedings of the 41st IEEE 
Conference on Decision and Control, pp. 893-
899, Dec. 2004. 
[4] X. Li, L. Xu, J. Hua, X. Lin, J. Li, M. Ouyang, 
“Power management strategy for vehicular-
applied hybrid fuel cell/battery power system”, 
Journal of Power Sources, Vol.191, no.2, pp. 
542-549, Jun. 2009. 
[5] A. El Hajjaji, S. Bentalba, “Fuzzy path 
tracking control for automatic steering of 
vehicles”, Robotics and Autonomous Systems, 
vol.43, pp. 203–213, 2003. 
[6] J.M.A. Alvarez and A.M. Ĺopez, “Road 
Detection Based on Illuminant Invariance,” 
IEEE Transactions on Intelligent 
Transportation Systems, VOL. 12, NO. 1, pp. 
184-193,2011 
Authors 
 
Jyh-Ching Juang received the B. S. 
and M. S. degrees from National 
Chiao-Tung University, Hsin-Chu, 
Taiwan, in 1980 and 1982, 
respectively, and the Ph. D. degree in 
electrical engineering from University 
of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
in 1987. He was with Lockheed 
Aeronautical System Company, 
Burbank before he joined the faculty 
of the Department of Electrical 
Engineering, National Cheng Kung 
University, Tainan, Taiwan in 1993. 
His research interests include sensor 
networks, GNSS signal processing, 
and software-based receivers 
 
98 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：莊智清 計畫編號：98-2221-E-006-194-MY3 
計畫名稱：以區間分析進行無線網路系統分散式定位、編隊控制與決策之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 3 3 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
本計畫所發表之期刊論文計有 10 篇 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
本計畫所發展之技術除發表於期刊論文外，另著重於系統之建置與實務之驗證。此些學術
與應用成果包含 
1. 利用定位訊號進行遙測之應用並強調利用 GPS 定位訊號進行水位高度與流速量測之作
法並藉由實驗進行驗證。此一應用對於如何善用可取得之感測訊號進行加值應用將有幫
助。 
2. 有關定位法則之發展與應用主要實際發展嵌入式平台下之伽利略衛星接收機並進行實
際訊號之接收驗證。同時，發展多位元方法以進行 GNSS 訊號之擷取。於分散式定位與控
制架構下，如何快速進行定位是一重要議題。本研究應用多位元之表示同步搜尋數組 GNSS
定位訊號，如此可以有效地縮短訊號擷取之時間有利於快速定位。此一研究理論與實驗上
均驗證所提方法之優越性。 
3. 控制技術之發展，主要嘗試結合模糊控制與平方和(sum of squares)方法以進行控制
法則之發展。此一方法適用於非線性系統之控制亦具推廣至分散式編隊控制之潛力。本研
究同時探討切換式之控制以融合不同之模糊子系統。 
4. 有關以無線感測網路之定位系統與技術，可以應用於室內人員或物件之定位；更可以
與 GPS 系統結合構成無間縫之定位系統。 
5. 以多機器人為基礎之主動式定位與製圖技術則可以應用於環境之探勘與資源之搜尋。
 
