I. INTRODUCTION
A perfect electric conductor (PEC) reflects an incident wave with an 180◦ phase shift,
while a perfect magnetic conductor (PMC) can reflect the incident wave in phase. Although
PMCs are not known to exist in nature, a surface with high surface-impedance boundary
condition, defined as the ratio between the tangential electric and magnetic fields on the
surface, can mimic the reflection characteristics of a PMC. Researchers have recently de-
veloped some interesting structures with high impedance-surface properties. For example,
a periodic mushroom-type texture, called Sievenpiper’s mushroom, was implemented using
printed circuit board technology. This design was able to suppress the propagation of sur-
face waves. This surface can reflect electromagnetic waves with no phase reversal, behaving
as a perfect magnetic conductor1. Other researchers developed a wideband AMC structure
with its unit cell containing unclosed rectangular loops, four square patches, and a cross in
the center2. Other research demonstrates several different unit-cell patterns design based
on genetic algorithm for multiband AMC surface using high impedance frequency selective
surfaces3. A thin AMC structure was recently designed and verified for RCS reduction. This
structure consists of a combination of AMC and PEC cells using Sievenpiper’s mushrooms
and full metallic patches, respectively, to form a two-dimensional array on a plane. This
design achieves more than a 20 dB reduction of the RCS value with respect to a reference
metallic plate for normal incidence4. Another study presents an ultra-thin and broadband
radar absorbing material based on periodically arranging two different types of thin pla-
nar slabs that are both AMCs with different phase characteristics that are arranged in a
checkerboard configuration5. A chessboard reflector composed of simple interlaced pattern
of doubly periodic square metal and dielectric patches was also proposed for radar cross-
section reduction6. Finally, another study presents an absorber consisting of an artificial
magnetic ground plane with surface mount resistors interconnecting a textured surface of
square patches7. Researchers have developed mechanical and electrical tuning methods for
tunable AMCs (or high impedance surfaces) by adjusting the resonant frequency of the unit
cell. For example, incorporating varactor diodes into the resonant unit cell of the periodic
surface texture produces a tunable impedance surface8. A mechanically tunable impedance
surface was developed to change the resonance frequency of each unit cell and the dispersion
relation of the leaky wave, achieving a two-dimensional beam steering9. Researchers have
2
the same (denoted as d) and are much smaller than that of the operational wavelength. The
dimension of the square metal patch in each unit cell is denoted as a. A uniform plane wave
is normally incident on the structure with its electric field along the y-axis. Since the period
d is assumed to be much smaller than that of the operation wavelength, all the higher-order
space harmonics excluding (m=0, n=0) will become evanescent (non-propagation) waves.
The propagation constant of the higher space harmonic is given as follows.
kzmn =
√
k2o −
(
kx +m
2pi
d
)2
−
(
ky + n
2pi
d
)2
;m,n ∈ integer (1)
For the normal incidence condition (kx = 0, ky = 0) and the assumption of λ ≫ d, Eq.
(1) can be rewritten as
kzmn = −jko
√
(m2 + n2)
(
λ
d
)2
− 1; excluding(m=0,n=0) (2)
Equation (2) reveals that all the higher-order space harmonics become below-cutoff
(evanescent) waves. Therefore, the reflection characteristics of the infinite structure can be
determined through the unit cell approach. Due to the normal incidence and electric-field
vector along the y-axis, the unit cell is a rectangular tube with the two PEC walls along the
y-axis and two PMC walls along the x-axis, respectively (Fig. 1(a)). This problem can be re-
garded as a waveguide filled with inhomogeneous medium consisting of dielectric, metal, and
air regions in the waveguide and terminated by a metal plate on its bottom surface. Subject
to the boundary conditions given previously, the fundamental waveguide mode is a TEM
wave with its electric and magnetic fields along the y and x axes, respectively (Fig. 1(b)).
The reflection amplitude and phase angle can be determined by performing the scattering
analysis of the waveguide mode by the discontinuity containing inhomogeneous medium and
metal patch.
Figure 2 shows the reflection phase angle versus frequency for various dimensions of the
square metal patch. The vertical and horizontal axes represent the reflection phase angle
in degree and the operational frequency in the unit of GHz, respectively. The dielectric
substrate employed is FR4, with a relative dielectric constant 4.5 and thickness 0.8 mm.
The period is 5 mm. This figure clearly shows that the reflection phase is zero degrees at
15GHz for the case with a patch dimension a = 3.77 mm.
4
FIG. 3. A gradient AMC surface consists of a 5-by-5 square patches array, d=5mm.
FIG. 4. Environment for full-wave simulation of a gradient AMC surface placed inside a box
equipped with absorbing boundary conditions on its walls.
but remain the same along the y-direction. The dimensions of the square patches along the
x-direction are respectively denoted as a1, a2, a3, a4, and a5.
To understand the reflection characteristics of the gradient AMC surface, the full-wave
simulation based on time-domain finite integration method (CST microwave studio) was
6
25mm
2
5
m
m
-37°
0°
-44°
28°
32°
(a)
50mm
5
0
m
m
-48°
-50°
0°
51°
55°
(b)
-51°
-53°
0°
51°
56°
(c)
-59°
-62°
0°
59°
63°
(d)
FIG. 5. Far-field reflection pattern for a periodic gradient AMC surface consisting of (a) one period,
(b) two periods, (c) three periods, and (d) 6 periods, along the x-axis.
IV. APPLICATION OF A COMPOSITE AMC SURFACE IN RCS
REDUCTION
The scattering characteristics depicted above indicate that a gradient AMC surface can
reflect the normally incident wave away from the incoming direction. This unique charac-
teristic holds great promise for RCS reduction applications. However, previous designs steer
the reflection beam on the x-z plane only. The performance of RCS reduction can be further
8
FIG. 8. 3D scattering pattern of the composite AMC surface illuminated by a normal incident
plane wave with the electric field along the y-axis.
AMC structure and measures its bi-static and mono-static reflections. Measurements were
carried out in an electromagnetic chamber using a vector network analyzer and standard gain
horn antennas. Before measuring the reflection characteristic of the composite AMC surface,
the scattering characteristic of the background (absorber reflectance) was first measured to
identify the scattering sources. The reflection characteristic of an equal size metal plate
was measured as a reference to determine the RCS reduction level for the composite AMC
surface in the normal direction. Figure 9 show the reflection far-field pattern for a frequency
of 15 GHz. The horizontal and vertical axes respectively represent the elevation angle in
degrees and normalized reflectivity in dBs. The red, black, and green lines respectively
represent the reflectivity of the composite AMC surface, PEC surface, and background.
Generally speaking, the composite AMC surface can reflect incoming waves away from the
normal direction. Most of their energy will be scattered at approximately ±45◦. This
study defines the RCS suppression rate based on the difference in the reflectance between
those from the composite AMC and PEC surfaces. The average difference is calculated
within the 3dB beam width of the receiving horn antenna. The RCS suppression rate for
those frequencies is generally more than 10 dB. Additionally, Fig. 10 shows the mono-static
reflectivity of the composite AMC surface. This study only demonstrates one figure, as the
other frequencies share similar properties. The reflectivity of the composite AMC surface
is more than 15 dB lower than that of the PEC surface near normal incidence. This means
that the mono-static RCS suppression rate using the composite AMC is up to 15 dB. The
10
FIG. 10. Mono-static reflectivity versus elevation angle in degree on the x-z plane.
Reflected wave
Incident wave
FIG. 11. The reflected waves from a period of gradient surface satisfying constructive interference
condition.
the incident wave away from the impinging direction. Additionally, the orthogonal gradient
AMC sub-surfaces were organized periodically and assembled in a surface to achieve four-
beam splitting. Numerical and experimental studies confirm the excellent performance of
this design in RCS reduction for both mono-static and bi-static reflections.
12
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/13
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 工程電磁材料之理論分析與應用研究
計畫主持人: 黃瑞彬
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-009-034- 學門領域: 電磁
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
