- 1 - 
1. Executive Summary 
Development of more efficient and cleaner technology and upgrading of 
regulations including emission standards are approaches focusing on supply-side that 
are often emphasized in achieving sustainable society. Considering that industrial 
activities are driven by final demand of citizens, demand-side management is also 
indispensable. Regulations and voluntary actions through public education are the 
double wheels of such demand-side management. In some leading countries, more 
information is appropriately interpreted and disclosed to promote voluntary shifts in 
daily life style, viewing at citizens as a more active actor in the challenge towards 
sustainability issues. However in Taiwan, in spite of increasing knowledge in 
environmental sciences, only few of their interpretation is delivered to the citizens. 
Therefore, citizens have no effective material for making more sustainable, beneficial 
choices in their daily consumption activities. 
The contribution of this project could be separated into two major parts. First, a 
communication strategy for such a voluntary shift in consumption activities and a 
framework for compilation of information used in the communication is proposed. 
The strategy consists of three main approaches: 1) to present environmental 
information together with other relevant information for decision making, 2) to 
provide information that is customized to a target group, and 3) to present 
personalized information through interactive communication. The proposed strategy 
and framework is demonstrated with a case study on the motorcycle commuting of 
Taiwanese university students. The methods demonstrated in this paper would be 
helpful in construction of communication strategies for other targeted groups and for 
other consumption activities. 
An effective tool that communicates how citizen’s choice on a consumption 
activity could make differences in various sustainability aspects is needed. A 
consumer activity however, is often varied in details and if so, the information 
delivered by such tool need to fit to the individual citizens. As the second contribution 
of this project, effectiveness of application of computer-assisted personal interview 
(CAPI) as a communication tool is examined. This tool aims at delivering information 
to catalyze voluntary action shift of a target consumer group, for a particular 
consumption activity. It receives input from the citizen, and provides information that 
is personalized to the individual citizens. In our case study, personalized sustainability 
information, namely monetary expense, CO2 emission, health damage, accident risk, 
and convenience of different commuting modes is communicated to students in 
National Cheng Kung University (NCKU) using our CAPI. A survey conducted in 
- 3 - 
2. Communication strategies and compilation of information 
2.1 Introduction 
Recent discussions on sustainable development indicate that both production and 
consumption need to change their current courses to lead global society to a 
sustainable future (Hertwitch, 2005a, 2005b). With regard to production systems, 
business incentives often work efficiently to change producers’ behavior towards a 
more sustainable course. Political measures such as carbon tax, would also influence 
the way industry uses fuel and energy, and recycling and fuel efficiency regulations 
will change the priorities in the way products are designed. However, changing the 
course of citizens’ consumption behavior seems a more challenging task. Regulations 
have limited capability to prescribe our consumption behavior in modern society. 
Incentives have a wider range of application, but still are limited. Incentives could be 
implemented only if it is obviously beneficial to the entire society, and only to the 
extent that it does not violate fairness in the market and among taxpayers. In order to 
massively change the course of consumption towards a more sustainable direction, 
voluntary learning and a voluntary shift in consumption patterns should be 
encouraged, in addition to improvements in the production system. 
Though there are a large number of environmental studies, lots of data on emissions 
and hazards, and collections of articles introducing sustainable living schemes, only a 
limited amount of such information has been delivered to consumers to encourage 
them to reconsider their current unsustainable consumption behaviors. At least three 
reasons for this can be identified. First, such information is scattered widely and in 
different forms, and is not accessible in systematic and appropriate ways. Secondly, 
the key driving force to people reconsidering unsustainable habits is not well 
understood, so the useful data is not organized in effective forms. Finally, 
consumption patterns are varied for different groups of consumers, and useful 
information for one group of consumers might not be so useful for others. Conversely, 
knowledge that is useful for every type of consumer tends to be less relevant to 
individuals’ specific daily consumption patterns. 
For example, information relevant to the opportunities of improvements in 
sustainability aspects of daily transportation could be found as follows. 
Motorized private transportation, such as motorcycles in Taiwan, is convenient, 
especially in the places where public transportation is less developed. Taiwan is 
known as the highest motorcycle-density region in the world, and the per square 
kilometer motorcycle density was 366.64 in 2005 (MOTC, 2005). The Institute of 
- 5 - 
economic (or any other) burdens so often by themselves. Rather, the perceptions 
constructed in Taiwanese society might have more effect on their choice of 
transportation. For example, typical Taiwanese people’s perceptions on motorcycles 
include the following: 
1) “The heavier the safer”: This traditional viewpoint is widely ingrained in 
Taiwanese’s public’s mind. Thus a bicycle is perceived as inferior to a motorcycle 
without objective evaluation. 
2) “Universal habit”: Owning a motorcycle is considered a matter of course for 
Taiwanese people, and once they own a motorcycle, it makes them feel that they 
should get the benefit of their initial investment by using it more.  
3) “The fastest for short distance travel”: It is considered that traveling by 
motorcycle is much faster than by bicycle. 
Those perceptions are actually questionable, and need more distinct evaluation. 
Motorcycles drive closer to cars in Taiwan, and their faster speed could result in more 
serious accidents. The conclusion from Institute of Transportation at MOTC of 
Taiwan (2004) mentioned above seems to support perception one, however, such an 
averaged and per-distance comparison could be misleading because motorcycles will 
have a longer travel distance than bicycles. By owning a motorcycle, users might 
travel longer, so if the per-distance risk is the same, it implies more absolute risk per 
time compared with bicycles. In addition, the Taiwanese average does not necessarily 
apply to a specific person, because motorcycle use is diverse. Regarding the second 
perception, using a motorcycle more might not be the most economic choice, because 
it will require more fuel, maintenance, and repairs. “Getting the benefit of the initial 
investment by it using more” may not apply to a product like motorcycles. Finally, the 
difference in commuting time might be less than it is considered. Most of the rides in 
urban Taiwan are fairly short, and if downtown parking is difficult and traffic jams 
limit speed, often giving bicycles an advantage. 
Those possibly misguided perceptions have to be overcome in order to actually 
shift behavior. Currently, the scattered information available is not effective in 
overcoming those barriers. 
The objective of this paper is to present a methodology to identify, choose, compile 
and deliver information that is relevant to the consumption choices of a selected 
targeted group, to provide a case study to demonstrate the methodology, and to 
discuss essential issues in the methodology. Students at National Cheng Kung 
University are selected as a target groups in the case study. Taiwanese students are 
- 7 - 
done for groups of greater granularity (e.g. at the national, county, or city level) with 
less variation in the type. In such cases, data could be obtained from the management 
body of that group (e.g. school administration for students) or through a relatively 
smaller scale survey (because the population of the survey would be smaller).  
Next, the type of information to be communicated should be decided. In this step, 
all the information categories that could be relevant to the consumers’ when they 
consider their usual course of activities (e.g. cost, convenience, time, amenity, 
environmental impact, safety, etc.) should be identified. In addition, the existing and 
potential options should be enumerated. Reinforcement of limited knowledge of how 
consumers make decisions and what the options for groups of consumers are could be 
obtained by survey or interviews. However, it must be noted that sometimes 
consumers are not aware of what type of information could be influential to their 
reconsideration of consumption habits; therefore, merely relying on survey or 
Choose target of communication 
- Identify consumption activities that could be 
causing issues 
- Identify issues related to consumption patterns 
- Choose target consumer group 
Decide what kind of information should be 
communicated 
- Identify relevant categories 
- Identify relevant options 
Prepare the information to be communicated 
- Identify which parameters are still varying among 
the members of the target consumer group 
- Collect values that are common among the 
members of the target consumer group 
- Add the identified parameters in characterization 
models 
- Quantify different potential consequences by 
choices of options 
- Identify qualitative differences 
Communicate the compiled information 
- Ask for input of varying information 
- Calculate varying items among consumers 
- Let the target consumer group reconsider 
consumption patterns by delivering compiled 
information 
Figure 1  Methodology overview 
- 9 - 
EBS has an advantage in allowing consumers to derive information by themselves, 
which will deepen their understanding of the relationships between their choices and 
consequences. The shortcomings are that 1) it requires users to calculate the results by 
themselves, which is sometimes too difficult or tiresome for them, and that 2) the 
level of dynamic adaptation of contents is relatively limited because of the printed 
paper format. Those shortcomings could be dealt with by preparing the EBS as 
software instead of printed papers. 
CAPI is a method of interview whose objective often includes retrieval of data 
from respondents in addition to the information delivery. For more convenience, a 
notebook computer could be used as the presentation tool in CAPI. Unlike traditional 
questionnaire, CAPI could be used for measuring effects of communication on 
consumers by asking additional questions after communicating relevant information 
and considering the results of personalized analysis. The communication potential is 
thus very high with CAPI. The questions and information to be delivered could be 
highly interactive and dynamic, and it could use different means of display such as 
pictures, sound, and movies for communication. 
A Dynamic Internet page generates contents reflecting user actions on a web page, 
and could be used for the communication discussed in this paper. The difference 
between the CAPI tool and a dynamic web page is that CAPI is face to face system, 
while the web page could be used by anonymous consumers. Internet sites could also 
retrieve user responses that to see the effectiveness of communication in changing 
behavior after delivering the information; however, it would be difficult to avoid bad 
information contaminating the retrieved dataset, because of anonymous nature of the 
system. 
- 11 - 
As shown in Fig.2, 66.3% of surveyed students use motorcycles and 31.2% use 
bicycles as their main commuting mode. The motorcycle commuting rate increases as 
students stay longer in the university. 2.5% of respondents neither commute by 
motorcycle nor bicycle (5 cases by walking and 2 cases by car). From this figure, we 
could identify three major options for students: motorcycle, bicycle, and walking.  
It should be noted that the options that are not taken at present should not be 
overlooked. In the area around NCKU campus, buses and taxis could be considered as 
possible options, but they were ruled out as effective options from following reasons. 
Buses are not feasible for students, considering that busses in Tainan city they do not 
follow a schedule, that is the location of buses is not given by a dynamic bus 
information (or e-bus) system using Internet and telephone, while time management 
for students is crucial. Meanwhile, taxis are too expensive for students’ daily use.  
In some cases, emerging options should be considered, such as electrical 
motorcycles and subway. However, no such options are predicted to be available in 
the near future. 
2.3.3 Step 3: Prepare the information to be communicated 
In the previous step, safety, environment (health), economy, and time were 
identified as the communicated categories. All of those aspects could be quantified 
using different characterization methods with appropriate localization, customization 
and personalization, as shown below. 
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
freshman sophomore junior senior graduate
other
bicycle
motorcycle
Figure 2  Commuting patterns of NCKU students by student status 
Average motorcycle commuting rate is 66.3%, with 95% confidence level,  
error within 5.6%. Survey conducted in April, 2005 
- 13 - 
YLLYLDDALYs +=   … (1) 
[ ] [ ][ ] ( )
⎭⎬
⎫
⎩⎨
⎧ −−+−+−−−++−×+=
−+−++− rLβ)a(ra)β)(L(r
ra
e
r
Kβ)a(rea)β)(L(re
β)(r
KCeD 1111YLD 2  
 …(2) 
 
[ ] [ ][ ] ( )rLaraLrra e
r
KareaLre
r
KCe −+−++− −−+−+−−−++−+= 1
11)(1))((YLL )())((2 βββ
ββ
 …(3) 
where: 
D: disability weight 
K: the age-weighting factor (1 or 0) 
C: a constant (0.1658) 
a: age at death 
 
L: in YLD → duration of disability  
in YLL →  the remaining standard 
life expectancy at death 
r: the discount rate (0.03) 
β: the age-weighting factor (0.04)
Figure 3  DALYs associated with commuting options of NCKU students calculated with 
different methodologies 
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
1.4
days
motorcycle bicycle motorcycle bicycle motorcycle bicycle
YLD
YLL
Calculated with 
Guard Office Data 
Calculated with 
Survey 
Hybrid 
- 15 - 
parameter of all the variables under our variation setting. This finding corresponds 
well with the results of Arnesen et al. (2004), and indicates that we did not introduce 
any parameter more sensitive than those inherent to DALYs. 
The DALYs model was used without any modification, but the data was taken from 
different sources to mitigate the limitations of data availability. Localization of values 
has been made, by using local data for standard life expectancy. No customization for 
students of NCKU was done. No personalization parameter was involved in the 
calculation of DALYs for safety aspects. 
 
Table 2 Rates and seriousness of accidents for bicycles and motorcycles 
 
 YLD for single accidents Accident experience rate Serious accident 
rate 
Motorcycle 2.48 days 26% 4% 
Bicycle 1.72 days 16% 3% 
 
-30 -20 -10 0 10 20 30 40 50 60
standard life expectancy
injury duration
disability weight
number of deaths per year
discount rate
 % Change in DALYs
Figure 4  Tornado graph of DALYs for commuting accidents 
- 17 - 
Table 4 shows the travel speed ratio between bicycle and motorcycle in the three 
tested routes of our case study. The average travel speed of motorcycles is 19.1 km/h, 
which is consistent with the data from Table 3. Bicycle travel speed is 12.9 km/h. 
Motorcycle travel speed is thus 1.48 times faster than bicycle. 
 
Table 4 Motorcycle and bicycle travel speed (km/hour) on 3 NCKU students 
commuting routes 
  
Bicycle-commuting students have advantages in time consumption because 
bicycles are allowed inside NCKU campus while motorcycles are not. Therefore, 
bicycle commuting students spend less time walking from their parking space to their 
classroom. In this case study, 2 minutes “walk through” time is assumed for walking 
and bicycle commuters based on experience. Walk through time for motorcycles will 
be obtained depending on the location of their parking and their destination in the 
campus, so it will be personalized for each student. 
Average effective walking speed for NCKU students commuting is set at 1.25 m/s 
assuming the walking speed as 1.5 m/s, with 1 minute traffic light stop required every 
5 minutes walk. This walking speed is assumed based upon preceding studies 
(Murtagh. et al., 2002) (Tarawneh, 2001) as shown in Table 5. 
 
Table 5 Average walking speed in preceding studies 
Study Average speed Population Method 
Tarawneh 1.49 m/s 
21-30 years old age 
group in Jordan 
Measure 3500 pedestrian crossing 
operations in 27 crosswalks 
Murtagh 
1.56 m/s  
(1.79m/s for “brisk” walking) 
Northern Ireland public 
park pedestrians 
Observation and treadmill test 
 
 Motorcycle Bicycle 
 Morning rush hour Afternoon rush hour Morning rush hour Afternoon rush hour 
Route 1 21.4 28.7 13.7 15.2 
Route 2 18.7 13.7 14.0 10.5 
Route 3 18.6 13.7 12.1 11.8 
19.6 18.7 13.3 12.5 
Average 
19.1 12.9 
- 19 - 
2.3.3.3  Economic cost 
Economic cost could be divided into initial, fuel, maintenance, repair costs, and tax 
as depicted in Table 6. In this case study, we focus on fuel, maintenance, repair cost, 
and tax, considering the current high motorcycle owning rates for students. Fuel cost 
on different commuting modes is discussed in detail. We quote government reports 
and develop a typical use scenario to estimate the rest of the costs of bicycles and 
motorcycles. Fuel expense and tax are subject to personalized quantification to fit the 
individual’s commuting habits. 
Mileage data for motorcycles is important from an economic as well as 
environmental perspective. Table 7 shows the mileage data for all kinds of motorcycle 
available on the Taiwanese market (Bureau of Energy at MOEA, 2004). This data was 
obtained by applying different prescribed driving patterns to simulate more realistic 
conditions. However, the data was taken from brand new vehicles, so it is considered 
Cost type Characterization Method Consumer attributes Group attributes 
Initial cost - - - 
Fuel cost 
Equation to provide 
personalized values 
Time for commuting Averaged travel speed around NCKU
Average mileage of motorcycles 
Gasoline price to date 
Maintenance 
cost 
Customized values - Average breakdown in Taiwan 
Repair cost Customized values - 
Average repair cost from accidents 
(from survey in this study) 
Accident occurring rate  
(from survey in this study) 
Tax and 
insurance 
Table to provide  
personalized values 
Type of motorcycles Taiwanese regulations 
Medical 
expense 
- - - 
Engine 
displacement 50 cc 80 cc 100 cc 125 cc 150 cc 
Mileage 
(km/L-gasoline) 42.4 39.5 39.1 38.4 38.3 
Average 
(km/L-gasoline) 39.5 
Table 5  Economic cost in this case study
Table 5  Averaged mileage of motorcycles with different engine displacements
- 21 - 
Cost is correlated also with safety in this case study, because accidents will require 
repairs to motorcycles and bicycles. In this case study, average repair costs per 
accident is collected in the pre-survey, as shown in Table 10. Repair cost for 
motorcycles are obviously greater than that of bicycles for one accident. In addition, 
higher YLD per accident is expected to result in higher medical treatment cost, but 
this difference was not assessed. All the motorcycles on the road in Taiwan are 
registered with the MOTC of Taiwan, and users should pay fuel and license taxes and 
essential insurance. The rates vary according to engine displacement of motorcycle, as 
shown in Table 11 (Directorate general of Highways at MOTC, 2006) (Financial 
Supervisory Commission, 2006). 
Figure 5 shows the differences in annual repair and maintenance costs, integrating 
information from Tables 8 and 9, incorporating the accident occurring rates obtained 
from our survey. Amount of fuel, tax, and insurance costs that are personalized to 
each consumer will be added to this figure when costs would be communicated. 
  The cost calculation model is developed according to Taiwanese local situations, 
such as gasoline price, tax, maintenance cost, and travel speed. Furthermore, cost will 
be calculated according to the travel time (or distance) of individual students so 
personalized information will be delivered. 
 
 
 
 
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
4000
4500
Accident repair 412 17
Maintenance 3872 900
Motorcycle Bicycle
Figure 5  Annual repair and maintenance costs (NTD) 
- 23 - 
2.3.3.4 Environment and health 
To present quantitative figures for differences in environment and health impacts, 
various emissions associated with the activities in chosen options should be 
characterized. In addition, choice of impact categories should be made, and questions 
on what indicator should represent the chosen impact category and how to integrate 
multiple indicators if needed should be answered. 
In Taiwan, all the motorcycles on the road should conform to the exhaust gas 
emission standard, and the government implements nonscheduled random on-road 
spot checks to ensure specific pollutants (CO and Hydrocarbons) in exhaust gas not 
exceeding the regulated concentration. Exhaust gas emission standards (TEPA, 2001), 
shown in Table 12, could be used if there is no other data representing actual emission 
conditions. In this case study, data from dynamometric tests is used as emission 
factors. One of the dynamometric test (Wang, 2002) which was referred to in the 
mileage calculation was used to derive CO2, CO, NOx, and Hydrocarbon emissions. 
To compensate for the lack of PM10 emission data in this test, results from another 
dynamometric test (Yang, H.H., 2004) were used. The tests in the second study were 
carried out in the cold state, which introduced inevitable inconsistency with the 
emission factors for the rest of the pollutants. The combined emission factors are 
shown in Table 13 
Once quantified, those emissions should be interpreted with more relevant values to 
the consumer choices of transportation options. In this case study, human health 
damage and contribution to global warming were chosen as such relevant categories 
for students in NCKU. In this study, the Life cycle Impact assessment Method based 
on Endpoint modeling (LIME) from JEMAI (2002, 2006) was used to characterize 
pollutants into health damage in monetary terms, and an equivalent activity approach 
was chosen to present the amount of CO2 associated with transportation options, 
choosing air conditioning as the equivalent activity. 
The application of LIME for this study introduces errors from the mismatch of 
assumptions. Meteorological and geographical conditions, background concentration 
of pollutants, and values are different in Japan (the target of the LIME method) and in 
Tainan, located in southern Taiwan. However, among other damage oriented endpoint 
models such as Eco-Indicator 99, LIME could be better applied to Taiwan, because 
population density is close to Japan’s. Other local alternatives such as Taiwanese 
Green GDP (Taiwan Provincial Government, 2006) and Taiwanese traffic ecological 
footprint (Hsu, 2003) were considered, but both methodologies have flaws in 
- 25 - 
Table 11  Aggregate damage factor (external health damage cost) based on LIME (presented in monetary term*)  
*original data is presented in Japanese Yen, the currency is 1 NTD = 3.61 Japanese Yen at April 19, 2006 
Table 9  Exhaust gas emission standard (basis for on-road spot check) 
 
Table 10 Major emission factors from dynamometer test 
  CO2 PM10* CO NOx HC 
Emission factor 
(gram per kilometer traveled) 
4.99E+01 5.73E-03 7.34E+00 1.25E-01 2.02E+00
 
 
 
 
 
 
Qualified Standard Yellow Tag Qualification Blue Tag Qualification
For motorcycle qualified in the third period or 
early emission standard 
3.5%<CO≦4.5% & 
7,000ppm<HC≦9000ppm
CO≦3.5% & 
HC≦7,000ppm 
For motorcycle qualified in the fourth period 
emission standard 
2.5%<CO≦3.5% & 
1,500ppm<HC≦2,000ppm
CO≦2.5% & 
HC≦1,500ppm 
  Pollutants 
  CO2 PM10 CO NOx THC 
Emission factor (gram per 
kilometer traveled) 4.99E+01 5.73E-03 7.34E+00 1.25E-01 2.02E+00 
LIME health damage (NTD 
per gram pollutant) 6.14E-04 3.13E+00 - 5.46E-02 4.18E-02 
Health damage per kilometer 
traveled 3.07E-02 1.79E-02 - 6.82E-03 8.42E-02 
   Aggregated damage factor  =  1.40E-01 (NTD/km)  
- 27 - 
Figure 6 Shift of attitudes by the communication of information in the case study 
2%
5%
43%
39%
38%
31%
16%
23%
2%
2%
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
after receiving
customized
information
before receiving
customized
information
totally disagree disagree not sure / no comment agree totally agree
0%
5% 54%
31%
26%
20%
13%
39%
2%
10%
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
after receiving
customized
information
before receiving
customized
information
totally agree agree not sure / no comment disagree totally disagree
6-b  Answers from bicycle commuting students for  
“Will you consider changing your commuting tool to motorcycle before graduating from NCKU?” 
6-a  Answers from motorcycle commuting students for  
“Will you consider changing your commuting tool to bicycle, walking, or other method using public 
transportation before graduating from NCKU?” 
- 29 - 
For the health damage, DALYs could be chosen instead of monetarized value to 
allow easier comparison with the safety aspect. However, we considered that 
aggregation of results is not as important in this case study, because the amount of 
information is not too much. In addition, people might put different weights on safety 
risk and health damage, and using the same unit will result in implicitly forcing a 
certain weight on the two aspects. Therefore, in our case study, we avoid using 
DALYs for health damage, and used monetary expression, although the monetary 
term is actually calculated using contingency values of DALYs calculated by the 
LIME system. In addition, note that DALYs calculated for safety and health damage 
has a fundamental gap, because while Taiwanese life expectancy value was used in 
safety DALYs calculation, Japanese life expectancy value was used for health damage 
calculation. This is because the LIME system uses Japanese life expectancy, and no 
correction method is provided for life expectancy in the system (or any other similar 
endpoint damage characterization system). The monetary terms are used for cost, but 
by explicitly mentioning that the health damage result is an external cost, the 
difference in meaning could be exhibited clearly. Moreover, while calculating DALYs 
loss from traffic accidents for the target group, the injury duration was specifically 
according to individual accident cases gathered by survey of the target group, the 
injury duration of DALYs calculation in LIME system is based on aggregated 
statistical data. The calculation method we take is better for customization but, 
inevitably, not totally accordant with DALYs values derived from the approach taken 
by LIME system. 
An important assumption in this study is that the direction we would want 
consumers to shift in is clear and is toward a more sustainable direction. Having this 
assumption, simply choosing more influential and easily understood indicators is 
recommended. For example, time equivalent to operation of air conditioning is easier 
understood than GWP (or CO2 equivalent), and highly relevant to Taiwanese people, 
because Taiwan is located in a tropical region and relies heavily on air conditioning 
(namely cooling and dehumidifying). Air conditioner use has more of high demand 
elasticity, that is, people have more flexibility in deciding whether to use it or not. In 
drier and cooler Northern countries or countries that are strongly bound to quantitative 
GHG emission target, such as Japan, different equivalents for indicators should be 
adopted. In particular, in UNFCCC Annex I countries such as Japan, efforts to meet 
the Kyoto targets might be more relevant or at least worth mentioning. The choice of 
economic terms instead of DALYs for health damage from air pollution by 
motorcycle use was made according to the above principle. DALYs value looked too 
insignificant even in daily instead of yearly terms. On the other hand, monetary terms 
provided more accountable values for the same damage. 
- 31 - 
CO and HC that are emitted. On the other hand, catalytic converters can not fully 
function and eliminate the pollution of exhaust gas before reaching optimal 
conversion temperature (Di Monte et al., 1998). Studies from Lenaers (1996) and 
TEPA (1997) revealed that short distance riding of motorcycles usually results in 
higher emission of pollutants, and it should be remembered that the daily commuting 
of students would mostly be over short distances. We would recommend keep track of 
the information on the proportion of motorcycle engine types to adjust the emission 
factor, and then adopting the adjusted emission factor which better fits the commuting 
style of the target group to achieve better customization. 
- 33 - 
2.4.3 Consideration of related consumption activities 
Consumption is a system of activities that influence each other, for example by 
sharing resources such as time and budget. When some message is conveyed to shift a 
consumption behavior, attention should be paid to major side-effects to avoid adverse 
consequences. In our case, if a student changes their commuting tool from motorcycle 
to bicycle for commuting to school from their home, we could expect that they will 
not use a motorcycle to go out for lunch. On the other hand, it is probable that 
students would turn on air conditioning of classrooms more often due to the increased 
exercise from riding a bicycle that will make them warmer. A method to allow 
systematic consideration of those effects is needed. 
Annual maintenance cost presented here is not only for daily commuting usage, but 
also for the rest of the ordinary usage. If a motorcycle is only used for daily 
commuting, the maintenance cost would probably be reduced, which is usually not the 
case if a motorcycle-owning student stops using it to come to school. The problem 
could be avoided if an operation cost survey based on the distance traveled on the 
mileage meter is conducted. However, it should be noted that a choice in commuting 
methods could affect life style and behavior. If a motorcycle is used instead of a 
bicycle, it could result in an extended field of activities, such as increased preference 
to go shopping or to restaurants located further away. This kind if effect increases the 
travel distance and maintenance cost. For this reason, general average maintenance 
cost was used instead of a mileage based maintenance cost. 
2.4.4 Introduction of life cycle perspectives 
For consumption activities in which the use of the product itself entails high 
environmental loads, such as transportation by motorcycle or car, considering 
life-cycle wide intervention on the sustainability aspects has relatively less importance. 
However, many other consumption activities are related to products or service that 
can have more interventions in production or post-consumption treatment. Therefore, 
in general, communication of information prepared based on life cycle perspectives 
will be needed. The case study in this paper does not cover most of the life cycle wide 
impacts of commuting choices. 
Extending the scope of this study to different life-cycle stages will complicate 
localization and customization of information, and more research is needed to work 
out communication strategies for such an extended scope. To this end, future work 
should be directed into communication of lifestyle choices that has variety in location 
and uses more specific characteristics for some group of consumers. 
- 35 - 
Environmental Protection Administration of Taiwan (TEPA), Emission Data System version 
5.1, Taiwan, 2000 
Environmental Protection Administration of Taiwan (TEPA), “Jiche paiqi jianyan biaozhun 
jiance chengxu (Standard measurement procedures for motorcycle exhaust gas examination)”: 
http://210.243.193.33/epa/ , 2006 (in Chinese) 
Environmental Protection Administration of Taiwan (TEPA), Website of greenmark 
information, http://greenmark.epa.gov.tw/declare/inform.asp , 2006 
Financial Supervisory Commission of Taiwan, Descriptions on compulsory tax rates for 
automobiles: http://www.ib.gov.tw/public/Attachment/6121733971.doc , 2006 (in Chinese) 
Fukushima Y., Yamashita M., Hirao M. Function and information flow model of an adaptive 
environmental management system in households: a progressive use of customized 
environmental balance sheets. Environ. Sci. 2005; 18 (2): 103-114 
Hertwich EG. Life cycle approaches to sustainable consumption: A critical review.  Environ. 
Sci. and Technol. 2005a; 39 (13): 4673-4684. 
Hertwich EG. Consumption and industrial ecology. J Ind. Ecol. 2005b; 9 (1-2): 1-6. 
Hirose Y., Social psychology of environment and consumption, Nagoya University Press, 
Nagoya, 1995 (in Japanese) 
Hsu, Hu-Mei, “A Study of Development Traffic Ecological Footprint: Department of Civil 
Engineering”, National Taiwan University (2003) 
Institute of Transportation, Ministry of Transportation and Communications (MOTC) of 
Taiwan, Census of Road Vehicle Operating Cost, Taiwan, 2000 
Institute of Transportation, Ministry of Transportation and Communications (MOTC) of 
Taiwan, Patterns of Motorcycle Ownership and Usage in Taiwan Area, Taiwan, 2002 
Institute of Transportation, Ministry of Transportation and Communications (MOTC) of 
Taiwan, “Bicycle Accidents Analysis and Countermeasures”, 2004 
International Monetary Fund, World Economic Outlook Database, 2006 
Japanese Environmental Management Association for Industry (JEMAI),  
http://www.jemai.or.jp/english/lca/project.cfm, 2006 
Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry (JEMAI), “Seihin tou raifu 
saikuru kankyo eikyo hyouka gijutsu kaihatsu seika houkokusyo" , 2002 (in Japanese) 
 
- 37 - 
3. Application of computer assisted personal interview 
3.1 Introduction 
People’s daily life behavior is a system of a number of consumption activities, each 
of which is often closely bound with environmental consequences. Some of the 
activities are chosen for practice in a more adaptive manner, and some of them have 
more elasticity for initiating a change. For example, short distance commuting, and 
diet habit have more alternative options and less transition cost would be needed. On 
the contrary, changing living places, and replacing expensive appliances such as air 
conditioners or cars will be more difficult.  
Motorized private transportation, such as motorcycles in Taiwan, provides versatile 
mobility service especially in the places where public transportation is less developed. 
Negative impacts associated with such convenient functions are more and more 
serious in these areas. Taiwan is known as the highest motorcycle-density region in 
the world[1]. The per square kilometer motorcycle density is 366.78. Ministry of 
transportation of Taiwan predicts that without effective motorcycle restriction policy, 
the average motorcycle number growing rate would remain +3.8% till the year 
2012[2]. Motorcycle is prevalently used as commuting medium by college students. 
From the preliminary survey conduct in 2005, it was observed that 66.3% of the 
students in National Cheng Kung University (NCKU, Taiwan) used motorcycle as 
main commuting medium.  
OECD Environmental Policy Committee’s Working Group on Transport defined 
the “Environmentally Sustainable Transport (EST)” as a transport system that “does 
not endanger public health or ecosystems and meets needs for access consistent with 
the use of renewable resources at or below their rates of regeneration, and the use of 
non-renewable resources at or below the rates of development of renewable 
substitutes”. According to Taiwanese Environmental Protection Administration 
(TEPA)’s report[3], about 20% of major air pollutants (NMHC, TOC, CO) in Tainan 
city are derived from motorcycles, endangering citizens’ public health and ecosystems. 
No technology that allows use of renewable energy is available on current 
motorcycles sold in Taiwan. Therefore, encouraging people using non-motorized 
transportation to reduce motorcycle usage on short-distance travel would be a solution 
toward Sustainable Transport in Taiwanese urban areas.  
How and from which source can people perceive information that has to be used in 
- 39 - 
study, an advanced CAPI interface has been developed and examined in this study. 
The user-oriented survey structure which could present various consequences in the 4 
aspects customized to the target group of users, some of them further personalized 
basing upon answers to the question asked in the computer. Using our interactive 
communication and survey tool, assessment of respondents’ attribute and behavior 
intension shifts and communication of information was carried out simultaneously. 
The degree to which our comprehensive communication of environmental (local and 
global), social (safety), economic (internal and external cost), and convenience (time 
usage) information is statistically analyzed. 
3.2 Design of an information processing route 
The key function in the developed CAPI system is in its function to realize an 
interactive communication. In addition to presenting question and accepting answers, 
our interview system has a function to personalize information to be delivered. The 
personalized information will trigger reconsideration of their daily behavior, and the 
behavior intention will be measured by the following questions. 
Figure 7 illustrates the communication routes in the developed system.  
Relevant data & statistics
DALYs calculation
Travel speed
Monetary information
(maintenance, fuel, tax, and repairment cost)
Health / Environment issues
Main Survey
information 
feed to respondents
information feedback 
from respondent
Behavior characteristics & Shift of attitude
Post Analysis
respondent
researcher
Interpreted to easily comprehensible format
CAPI platform
Personal characteristics
Customized/Personalized data
travel time
annul expense
CO2 emission
external health damage
 
 Figure 7 Information processing route in this study  
- 41 - 
3. Input of data for calculating customized information (Fig. 8) 
The data input here will be used for calculating personalized information which 
will be shown to respondent later, includes questions as below: 
¾ One-way travel time for commuting between dormitory and school 
¾ Engine displacement of motorcycle (for motorcycle commuter only) 
¾ How long does it take for walking from your regular parking space to the 
building you take class? (for motorcycle commuter only) 
 
Figure 8 Layout of questionnaire software (step 3) 
4. Importance level of factors on deciding commuting mode (Fig. 9) 
This section also apply 5-level Likert scale for knowing the importance level of the 
four factors (time, environmental & healthy issue, safety, monetary expense) on 
their thought of deciding which commuting mode to choose. 
Engine displacement (radial button) 
Average time usage of single-way commuting 
trip (directly input by respondents) 
Average walk through time from parking place 
to classroom (directly input by respondents) 
- 43 - 
modes (motorcycle only, bicycle only, and commute by bicycle but keep 
motorcycle available) according to respondent’s current commuting pattern. 
The expenditure includes fuel, accident repairment, maintenance, tax and 
imperative insurance. (Fig. 10) 
z Expected annual public health damage of air pollution derived motorcycle in 
case of respondent choosing motorcycle for daily commuting from home to 
school. 
Expected annual CO2 emission from motorcycle in case of respondent 
choosing motorcycle for daily commuting from home to school. (presented as 
equivalent CO2 emission comparing to operate an air conditioner in single 
room)  
 
Fig. 10 Layout of questionnaire software (Step 5) 
 
Annual expanse comparison 
between different commuting mode 
(personalized data) 
Instant pop-out bar graph for comparison 
- 45 - 
represent the mother body, we select the library of NCKU as the survey spot. 
Binding by limited time and budge constraint, we took 175 effective samples 
(error is within 7.4% on 95% confidential level). 
The software consists of three parts: web-server system (constructed by 
Appserv) , interface layout (constructed by DreamweaverMX), and database 
(constructed by PHP code). Therefore it’s capable of being an on-line 
questionnaire system with automatic recording database. 
3.4 Results and discussion 
3.4.1 Effectiveness of information conveying 
We obtained total 175 effective respondents by personal interview during May to 
June in year 2006. With our unique questionnaire interface, 90.3% response rate is 
reached. We found 56.0% of students do not know that Taiwan has highest 
motorcycle density in the world. 43.3% of respondents do not aware that NCKU 
students who commute by motorcycle suffer higher accident rate than those commute 
by bicycle. And, merely 18.9% of respondents have the idea of how far a motorcycle 
could travel by 1 liter of gasoline. It’s deserve to mention only 52% of respondents 
consider using motorcycle is inferior to bicycle considering safety aspect. The 
percentage is even lower for motorcycle commuting students (42.8%). Nevertheless, 
our previous research already proved bicycle is by far safer than motorcycle in 
downtown commuting. That is, without providing statistical data, about half of 
students didn’t not aware the notable higher risk of using motorcycle.  
From Fig. 12, we can also understand the awareness of the environmental issue on 
motorcycle. 72% and 45% of students consider motorcycle result in serious problem 
on air and noise pollution respectively. While providing preferable environment suits 
for research and study is one of the key concerns to raise competitiveness of 
university, there should have been enough motives for school administrator to 
consider enacting policies aims at motorcycle issues. 
Table 14 shows average time usage for respondents travel from their dormitory to 
school. Motorcycle commuting students on average travel 1.92 times (3.45km – 
1.80km) longer distance for a single-way trip than bicycle commuting students (table 
1), that is, if motorcycle commuting students shift to commute by bicycle, they might 
need 16.1 minutes traveling from home time. Khisty.C.J. (1993 [11]) made a survey 
on the maximum tolerance on travel distance for both pedestrian and bicycle user, and 
develop an equation to describe maxim acceptable travel distance. Basing on the 
- 47 - 
 
 
3.5 Conclusion 
 
 
3.6 References 
 
 
 
Figure 13 Accumulated percentage of respondents by single-way 
travel time from home to school 
The other factor that would dominate the motorcycle using pattern is lodging rate 
of school dormitory. Only 28.6% of students who live in school dormitory use 
motorcycle for commuting, whereas 74.8% of student who do not live in school 
dormitory use motorcycle for commuting. And 75% (12/16) of those students who 
live in dormitory and commute by motorcycle agree/totally agree to consider adopting 
substitute commuting mode after responded our questionnaire. The rate is higher than 
those who not live in school dormitory (56.2%, 50/89). 
About the importance level of factors (time, accident, health/environment, expense) 
on deciding commuting modes, Fig. 14 and Fig. 15 show our survey result 
respectively before/after the respondents received their customized data. If we deem 
the combination of level of “very important” and “important” represent the 
“influential degree”, than it’s interesting that the order of “influential degree” on the 
four aspects is accident, time, environmental/health, and expense. However, after 
respondents received customized commuting information, Health/Environment aspect 
become most influential, and tailed by accident, expense, and time. 
We can clearly compare the respondents’ attitude shift before/after receiving 
customized data by Fig. 16. Over 40% of students raised their importance concern 
(red area) on Health/Environment aspect, whereas, only 14% of respondents raised 
their importance concern on travel time aspect. Moreover, 33% of respondents lower 
their importance concern (blue area) on travel time aspect. The might owing to 
students not really had done comparative test on travel time but just gauge it by their 
Students commute by bicycle Students commute by motorcycle 
44%
98%97%
85%
95%
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
travel time (minute)
ac
cu
m
ul
at
ed
 p
er
ce
nt
ag
e
35%
70%
81%
96%95%
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
travel time (minute)
ac
cu
m
ul
at
ed
 p
er
ce
nt
ag
e
- 49 - 
7% 22% 61% 8%
10% 30% 54% 5%
5% 27% 58% 10%
1% 13% 53% 27% 6%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Expanse
Health/Environment
Accident
Travel Time 
+3 +2 +1 no change -1 -2
 
Figure 16 Shifts in the Importance levels on choosing commuting modes 
 
Even if students raised their concern of the health/environment and accident aspects, 
it cannot be concluded that it will directly contribute to actual actions. With those 
questions on the willingness of adopting more sustainable commuting mode 
before/after receiving customized information, it is possible to observe the 
“effectiveness of information conveying”. Fig. 17 and Fig. 18 use a comprehensive 
way to represent this issue, namely “Greenness shift pattern”. For motorcycle 
commuting students, the raise of willingness level to “alternate to adopt sustainable 
commuting mode or use sustainable commuting mode more frequently” that is 
presented as green color with different color saturation in Fig.17. As we can see, 
52.4% of the respondents increased their intensity level of willingness to adopt 
sustainable commuting mode. And Fig. 18 shows that additional 27.6 % (95% 
confidence level ranges from 28.6% to 26.6%) of motorcycle commuting students 
agree to alternate to adopt sustainable commuting mode or use sustainable commuting 
mode more frequently after they received customized commuting information. 
- 51 - 
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
after receiving
customized
information
before receiving
customized
information
totally disagree disagree not sure / no comment agree totally agree
2%
13%
75%
8% 2%
-3
-1
0
+1
+4
Fig. 19 presents the data with the similar way as Fig. 17. For bicycle commuting 
students, the decrease of willingness level to “substitute to use motorcycle for 
commuting” is presented as green color. However, 75% of bicycle commuting did not 
change their attitude here. It seems like the information we presented to bicycle 
commuting students are not as effective as to motorcycle commuting students. From 
Fig. 20 we can find customized information barely have effect to make bicycle 
commuting students not to use motorcycle in the future. The phenomena might due to 
the rate of their “greenness” (rate of disagree and totally disagree to use motorcycle 
before graduate) already high (44%) originally comparing to motorcycle commuting 
students (31%). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 19 “Greenness shift pattern” of bicycle commuting students 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 20 Answer to the question “I would consider to use bicycle, bus or 
walking for commuting” by bicycle commuting students 
- 53 - 
3.4.2 Expected benefit of inducing students toward sustainable commuting mode 
Motorcycle commuting students travel average 10.84 minutes for a single-way trip 
from home to school. And it’s also known that 66.3% of NCKU students take 
motorcycle as main commuting mode. Therefore the overall projected negative 
impact from commuting of NCKU students could be calculated (Table 16). 
Motorcycle commuting students in NCKU derived about 1.69E+06 kilogram of 
carbon dioxide. The amount is equivalent to CO2 emission from 2.56E+06 kW of 
electricity power generated from Taiwan. External cost of health damage from air 
pollution is 4.11×106 NTD. And excessive DALYs loss comparing to commute by 
bicycle is 1.25×104days annually (equal to 34.2 disability adjusted life years). 
 
Table 16 Annual load and impact associated with 
motorcycle commuting at NCKU 
  per person average school total
CO2 emission (kg) 143.8  1.69E+06
Environmental external damage (NTD) 352.1  4.11E+06
Excessive DALYs loss due to commuting accident (day)* 1.1 1.25E+04
Gasoline consumption (liter) 73.8  8.61E+05
*compared to bicycle commuting  
(motorcycle1.35 day per person/year, bicycle 0.28 day per person/year)  
 
In the previous section, we already elucidated how much students’ willingness level 
to use bicycle for commuting have been increased by our interactive survey. Therefore, 
it’s also possible to quantify the essential benefit from our study. We’ve let extra 
27.6% of motorcycle commuting student intend to adopt sustainable commuting mode. 
If we assume the optimum situation could happen (those respondents actually do what 
they responded to do), the positive benefit could be derived from our survey is 
estimated in Table 17. 
- 55 - 
Consider the noise, the pollution, the excessive traffic accidents, and the illegal 
occupation of sidewalk resulted from motorcycle, it’s not justifiable to let user exempt 
the duty of externality. At the present situation, NCKU administration only charges 
the parking fee for basement parking space. But the charge is not imperative and most 
students can still park their motorcycle elsewhere.  
90%
71%73%
55% 54%
36%39%
12%
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
imperative parking fee charge per day (NTD)
m
ot
or
cy
cl
e 
co
m
m
ut
in
g 
ra
te
 
Figure 21 Imperative parking charges versus motorcycle commuting rate 
(For motorcycle commuting students) 
Parking motorcycle is not charged in roads and most parking lots around NCKU.  
In our survey, all respondents who commute by motorcycle were asked their critical 
amount of parking fee. Fig. 21 shows the relation on imperative parking charge versus 
motorcycle commuting rate. Since the objective of charging parking fee itself is to 
induce student using non-motorized transportation and to rectify the externality. What 
we seek is a effective charge without overly aggravating students economic burden. 
From the information shown in Fig. 21, we analyze the benefit from charging parking 
fee at three different level (5, 10, 20 NTD per day) and present the result in Fig. 22. 
Nevertheless, only 30.9% of respondents agree school to charge parking fee for 
restrain motorcycle commuting. Policy without sufficient general comprehension and 
consensus often turn out to be fail.  
- 57 - 
As well as higher non-motorized commuting rate, those lodging students who 
commute by motorcycle even has higher willingness (75%) to use non-motorized 
commuting modes after receiving customized information comparing to while 
sampling body (59%). If NCKU can increase 10% lodging rate and in the mean time 
present customized information to those new lodging student students, in optimum 
situation, the reduction of net negative effect will be 10.2%. Fig. 23 take CO2 
reduction and DALYs saving for instance to demonstrate the benefit from increase 
student lodging rate. 
0
1.18E+05
1.72E+05
2.39
3.49
0
40000
80000
120000
160000
200000
status quo increase 10% lodging rate increase 10% lodfing rate &
provide those student
customized information
C
O
2 
re
du
ct
io
n 
(k
g)
0
1
2
3
4
5
D
A
LY
s 
sa
vi
ng
 (l
ife
 y
ea
r)
CO2 reduction DALYs saving
 
Figure 23 Benefit from increase student lodging rate 
According to the number of students of NCKU, every 10% of lodging rate increase 
requires building capable of 1760 students. Construct new dormitory is unavoidable 
consuming both energy and material, and, bring on CO2 emission. Without full stage 
life cycle assessment being done, it’s hard to conclude the benefit over constructing 
dormitory is overwhelmingly a preferable policy. 
 
- 59 - 
To prepare an adequate set of information in an adequate form is also the key 
component of our communication structure. Of all the sustainable indicator/evaluation 
system, researcher and policy maker need to find out most suitable one. The 
information for applying to general public should qualify the following three terms: 
1.easily Communicable with effective media, 2.Comprehensive meaning for 
respondents to recognize without difficulty, and 3.Correlative to respondent’s daily 
life behavior in order to let people assess by themselves. It’s difficult to change 
people’s daily life behavior which they have already accommodated. But information 
valid in the “3C” conditions should at least enable people to reconsider their behavior 
but not just leave the “nomenclature like” massage of sustainable issues behind their 
mind. 
Interactive communication via CAPI for sustainability may not only work in 
transportation issues but also contains potential for applying to other sustainable 
lifestyle initiatives. We suggest customized/personalized CAPI interactive 
communication would be effective once the situation fits the following criteria: the 
target group is identified, the intended direction of behavior shift is clearly defined, 
variation of individual’s characteristic is significant, and location of target activity is 
specified. We also suggest for different daily life behaviors, providing relevant 
information that can arouse people’s association on their safe guard objects. Our case 
study demonstrate a methodology on how to construct a interactive communication 
structure which can induce people to reconsider shifting their current behavior to 
more sustainable way. 
