 2
微泵浦元件，將來期望整合熱泡式微泵浦於封閉迴
管路微型熱交換器中，圖1為熱泡式微泵浦原理結
構示意圖，由上游至下游包含汽泡閥(bubble check 
valve) 、 熱 源 (heating source) 、 擴 張 管 道
(diffuser)、收縮管道(contractor)及冷凝區
(condenser)，在加熱區及擴張管道為親水表面
(hydrophilic surface)，而收縮管道及冷凝區表
面 經 表 面 改 質 為 疏 水 表 面 (hydrophobic 
surface)。本研究擬以TaAl薄膜製作之微加熱器
(micro heater)模擬CPU熱源輸入，因此當熱源加
熱時，熱通量(heat flux)傳至微管道內，再由內
部的工作流體吸收，工作流體因吸收潛熱後，經由
液態蒸發且沸騰成蒸汽產生的過熱蒸汽泡，當繼續
輸入熱通量，蒸汽泡將向上游及下游方向成長變
大，因上游處有利用微機電製程技術製作之汽泡
閥，往上游的汽泡將被固定而限制成長，蒸汽泡只
能以Va速度往下游成長變大，如圖1 (a)所示。當蒸
汽泡介面往下游成長至親水表面之擴張管道時，汽
泡前後兩端之介面會產生表面張力不平衡的現
象，此表面張力不對稱的現象會形成一動力，促使
汽泡以Vb之速度持續往下游移動，如圖1(b)所示。
當蒸汽泡下游介面進入經表面改質技術改質後的
疏水表面收縮管道段時，汽泡一端介面在擴張管道
之親水表面，而另一端介面位於收縮管道之疏水表
面，經由表面能量自發性驅動機制，在不加外力下
產生快速移動蒸汽泡驅動力，將蒸汽泡以Vc速度往
下游移動而進入冷凝區，如圖1(c)所示。進入冷凝
器的蒸汽泡，將進行熱散轉換並由蒸汽冷凝變回工
作流體，冷卻完成的工作流體再度覆蓋熱源上方，
準備進行下一次的相變化熱傳，如圖1(d)所示，系
統將進行週而復始的循環，形成熱泡式微泵浦驅動
機制。 
2-2 加熱器設計原理 
鋁化鉭(TaAl)合金在空氣中因具高度穩定性，
在操作過程中不易燒斷且不易被強酸、強鹼侵蝕。
鋁化鉭電阻率會隨鋁金屬含量不同而不同，如圖 2
【6】所示。本實驗所採用的鋁化鉭，鋁含量為 30
％，電阻率約為 200μΩ．cm。此外，由圖 2 也可知
鋁化鉭的電阻溫度係數幾乎為零，表示電阻值幾乎
不隨溫度變化而有變化，因此一般常用來當作熱泡
式噴墨頭的熱泡致動器材料。基於上述的優點，本
實驗採用 TaAl 合金為微加熱器的材料。 
在製作出 TaAl 加熱器之前，由於本研究之微
加熱器晶片導線與加熱元件皆為 TaAl，故必須確保
加熱元件能有較大的電阻值，因此必須針對所設計
的幾何尺寸估算其電阻值，如圖 3【7】所示，電阻
值可由式(1)來估算 
 
w
LR
A
LR s ⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛×== ρ                 
       (1) 
其中： 
R：電阻值(Ω) 
ρ ：電阻率(resistivity，Ω•m) 
L：電阻絲總長度(m) 
A ：導線截面積(m２)， wtA ×=  
t ： 金屬薄膜厚度(m) 
w ：電阻絲寬度(m) 
sR ：片電阻(sheet resistance, Ω/□)， tR s
ρ=  
雖然元件的電阻值，可經由幾何設計計算而獲
得，但在製作金屬薄膜時，必須經過黃光微影、薄
膜沉積、光阻剝離等製程的問題，將會造成製作完
成時電阻值些許誤差。 
當電源供應器提供一穩定直流電源於微加熱
器時，可由式(2)求得一加熱量： 
R
Vq
2
=                            (2) 
當實驗所製作的微加熱器經校正之後，如得到電阻
溫度係數 (temperature coefficient of Resistance, 
TCR)，定義TCR=(ΔR/R)/ΔT)趨近於零的關係式。
經式(2)計算，可確保提供實驗系統固定加熱功率。 
2-3、熱泡式微泵浦晶片設計 
    根據上述兩小節之原理，設計所需之晶片。其
中在微流道部分，本實驗針對管道幾何形狀的改變
 4
大致上來說，如果給予較大的熱通量，汽泡會
移動的較快，且移動的汽泡也較小，但相對的管道
也較容易乾化。 
(B) 供給微加熱器交流電壓： 
供給微加熱器交流電壓，比較不同頻率及不同
脈衝寬度下微管道內部汽泡的動態行為。比較
10Vpp，10Hz、60Hz、100Hz 的情況下，實驗過程
的截圖如圖 13 所示。大概在 2～3 秒之間已有汽泡
往左方移動，並且在頻率越高的情況之下，往左方
移動的汽泡越多且越快。但頻率越高，管道乾化的
速度也會較快。 
再比較 10Vpp，10Hz，脈衝寬度 50％及 20％的情
形，實驗過程的截圖如圖 14 所示。減少脈衝寬度
等於使加熱時間縮短，剛好在脈衝寬度 20％的情況
之下，可以看到，當有一個汽泡因親水性漸擴管而
往左移動時，微加熱器上方會跟著生成新的汽泡，
而在左方堆積的汽泡會被從右方來的汽泡往前推
擠，有些會混合並繼續往左移動。在這個情形下整
個系統可以維持約 2 分鐘以上不會乾化，似乎可以
產生較好的泵浦效果。 
 
 
5. 結論  
 
首先在穩態的情形之下，給予在管道寬為 50μm 深
為 86μm 內部的加熱器直流電壓使其產生熱汽泡，
實驗結果發現給予越大的電壓能使汽泡移動越
快，但管道也較易乾化。而在非穩態情形之下，給
予交流電壓 10Vpp，頻率為 10Hz、60Hz、100Hz。
實驗發現，頻率越高，汽泡越容易移動且移動越
快。另外在頻率為 10Hz 時，比較脈衝寬度 20％與
50％的情形，發現在 20％時，可以觀察到單一汽泡
不斷生成，此時流體自發性填充的速率應該接近加
熱器產生汽泡的速率。 
。 
參考文獻  
1 N.O.Young, J. S. Goldstein, and M. J. Block, “The 
motion of bubble in a vertical temperature gradient”, 
J. Fluid Mech., Vol.6, pp.350-356, 1959. 
2  K. Takahashi, J. G. Weng, and C. L. Tien, 
“Marangoni effect in microbubble systems”, 
Microscale Thermophysical Engineering, Vol.3, 
pp.169-182, 1999. 
3  T. Jun and C. J. Kim, “ Microscale pumping with 
traversing bubbles in microchannels”, in Proc. 
IEEE Solid-State Sensor Actuator Worshop, 
Hilton Head Island, SC, 1996, pp.144-147. 
4  De-Sheng Meng and Chang-Jin "CJ" Kim, 
"Micropumping by Directional Growth and 
Hydrophobic Venting of Bubbles", Proceedings 
of IEEE MEMS 2005, Jan 30 -Feb 3, 2005, Miami, 
Florida, pp. 423-426 
5  Jr-Hung Tsai and Liwei Lin, “A 
Thermal-bubble-Actuated Micronozzle-Diffuser 
Pump”, Journal of Microelectromechanical 
Systems, Vol. 11, No. 6, December 2002, pp. 
665-671. 
6 .www.ecm.auckland.ac.nz/course/cm201/424_Chp2
B.pdf 
7  林郁欣， “整合微鉑溫度感測器於熱泡致動器之
發展研究” ， 國立成功大學航空太空工程學系
碩士論文，中華民國九十三年七月 
 
計畫成果自評 
 
本研究內容與原計畫相符，並達成預期目標，此研
究利用相變化高效率散熱機制設計一新型熱泡式
微幫浦熱交換器，利用微機電製程技術製作所需微
流道幾何形狀，並配合已發展之表面改質技術控制
蒸汽泡沿設計方向成長，當蒸汽泡成長至一設計大
小時，經由熱泡式微幫浦管道表面能量分佈，設計
一自發性微蒸汽泡驅動機制，在不加外力下產生快
速移動蒸汽泡驅動力，將蒸汽泡往下游移動，泠卻
液體再度覆蓋 CPU 晶片上方加熱表面，準備進行
下一次的相變化熱傳，並將此技術應用於封閉迴管
路微型熱交換器，並建立微蒸汽泡快速移動機制，
以達到了解微蒸汽泡相變化與散熱機制之關係，所
發展之 BPL 熱交換器，不僅可提供從事高熱量密
度晶片上散熱上之有利工具。未來更可將此本計畫
之研究成果應用於驅動微流晶片作為環境監督或
 6
 
 
圖 7 微管道製程圖 
 
 
 
圖 8 供給 2.5V 於微加熱器 h2 的實驗過程圖 
 
 
圖 9 供給 2.7V 於微加熱器 h1 的實驗過程圖 
 
 
圖 10 供給 2.9V 於微加熱器 h1 的實驗過程圖 
 
 
圖 11 供給 3.0V 於微加熱器 h1 的實驗過程圖 
 
 
圖 12 供給 4.0V 於微加熱器 h1 的實驗過程圖 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96－2221－E－006－165 
計畫名稱 新型熱泡式微幫浦驅動之封閉迴管路及其應用於微型熱交換器之研究發展
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 呂宗行副教授 國立成功大學航空太空工程研究所 
會議時間地點 Jan. 6-10, 2008, Sanya, China 
會議名稱 The 3rd Annual IEEE International Conference on Nano/Micro Engineered and Molecular Systems (IEEE-NEMS) 
發表論文題目 Droplet Movement on a Vertical Gradient Surface 
 
一、參加會議經過 
The 3rd Annual IEEE International Conference on Nano/Micro Engineered and Molecular Systems 
(IEEE-NEMS)為國際頂尖微奈米科技研究發表重要研討會之一,2008 年第三屆研討會在
中國三亞舉行，藉由參加今年 IEEE NEMS-2008 會議並發表論文,目的在展示台灣在對
微奈米系統之研究成果，對成功大學在此研究領域國際知名度及參與國際會議指標有
極大助益。今年大會安排 Plenary 及 Invited 演講共有: 
Prof. Young Ho CHO 
Digital Nanolocomotion Center, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, South Korea 
Tentative topic:" Bio-Inspired N/MEMS" 
Prof. Masayoshi ESASHI 
Micro/Nanomachining Research & Education Center, Tohoku University, Japan 
Tentative topic: TBD 
Prof. Long Sheng FAN 
Institute of Microelectromechanical Systems, National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan 
Tentative topic: "Microsystems for Biomedical Applications" 
Prof. Zhongfan LIU 
Center for Nanoscale Science and Technology (CNST) 
Institute of Physical Chemistry, Peking University, China 
Tentative Topic: "Facing the Challenges of Carbon Nanotube-Based Electronic Computation Devices" 
Dr. Peter VETTIGER 
IBM Zurich Research Laboratory / Swiss Center for Electronics and Microtechnology / 
University of Neuchatel, Switzerland 
Tentative topic: "More than Moore by VLSI N(M)EMS on CMOS" 
Prof. Alex ZETTL 
Department of Physics, University of California, Berkeley, USA 
Tentative Topic: TBD 
大會第一天(Jan. 7)及第二天(Jan. 8)早上分別以二場 Keynote speech 開場，第一天
(Jan. 17) Keynote speech 是以來自美國的 University of California, Berkley 的 Prof. 
Droplet Movement on a Vertical Gradient Surface  
Tzong-Shyng. Leu* Member IEEE, Tseng-Hsin Wu 
 
*Abstract- This research studies the improvement of droplet 
movement on a free energy gradient surface.  A vertical 
condensation system is designed to test gradient surface.  
Experimental results find that the heat transfer efficiency of 
gradient surface with contact angle gradient C=1mm can be 
10% higher than a hydrophilic surface.  The mechanism for the 
vertical gradient surface is also studied by both theoretical and 
experimental methods.  A length scale L, defined as )/( gL ργ=  
where r, ρ and g represent the liquid surface tension coefficient, 
liquid density and gravity, is found.  When the gradient surface 
length scale C is much higher than the length scale L, the 
system can be considered as an only gravity driven system.  
When the length scale C of the gradient surface is smaller than 
the length scale L, the surface tension gradient driven force 
start to show effects.  It is found that C=1mm gradient surface 
can cause smaller droplets to move and it is believed this is the 
major mechanism responsible for the better heat transfer 
efficiency.   
 
BACKGROUND 
     Using phase change of working fluid to remove heat in a two-
phase heat transfer device is a high efficiency method.  When 
saturated steam passes over a colder substrate, numerous water 
droplets nucleate and grow by coalescence with the surrounding 
drops. The merging droplets exhibit two-dimensional random 
motion. When a surface tension gradient is designed on the surface, 
the random movements of droplets are biased toward the more 
wettable side of the surface.  Powered by the energies of 
coalescence and collimated by the forces of the surface tension 
gradient, vapor condensing speeds are faster than those of typical 
surfaces without any surface modification. Therefore, an 
important factor to enhance phase change heat transfer is to 
increase the droplet movement on a condensation surface.  High 
efficiency condensation can continue as long as the droplets 
move away and clear up the surface for new condensation.   
There are several techniques for droplet movements. One of the 
droplet movements resulting from unbalanced surface tension 
forces constitute an important surface phenomenon, known as the 
Marangoni effect.  The usual Marangoni motions [1] are 
triggered by variations in temperature or composition on a 
liquid surface.  The typical speeds of these flows (speeds 
ranging from micrometers to millimeters per second [2]) on a 
solid surface are too slow to have practical utility.  Another 
technique that can also induce droplet motion is the surface 
tension gradient on a solid substrate [3] (Figure 1).  In this paper, 
the condensation on a vertical gradient surface is described.  
New patterns of surface modification are investigated in which 
the vapor condensation efficiency is enhanced.   
 
CURRENT RESULTS 
The main challenge to enhance phase change heat transfer on 
                                                 
    All authors are with the Department of Aeronautics and Astranautics, 
National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan. 
   *Contacting Author: Tzong-Shyng Leu is with Department of 
Aeronautics and Astranautics, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, 
Taiwan (phone: +886 6 2757575 ext 63638; fax:+886 6 2389940;                     
email:tsleu@mail.ncku.edu.tw). 
a vertical surface arises from how to create fast droplet movement.  
In this article, several surface tension gradients are first presented.  
Figure 2 shows the gradient surfaces  by using 1-Dodecanethoil 
SAM surface modification technique. The principle of surface 
modification technique [4] is to coat a layer of hydrophobic material 
on a hydrophilic silicon or silicon dioxide substrate.  The 
distribution of hydrophilic and hydrophobic modified area ratio is 
defined by photolithography techniques. According to the 
distribution of modified area ratio, the contact angle of modified 
surface changes arbitrarily and ranges between those two materials. 
By change modified area ratio, gradient surface can be fabricated on 
a substrate (see Figure 3(a)&(b)). The surface modification 
technique is applied to a condensation system, as shown in Figure 4. 
There are two mechanisms effecting condensation efficiency, the 
rate of nucleation as well as the movement of droplet. In this article, 
the discussion is based on those two mechanisms. There are two 
different types of surface modified condensation plate, and they are 
hydrophilic (Figure 5(a)) and gradient surface (Figure 5(b)). The 
experiment setup is vertical, so that the gravity effect will be able to 
help the droplet to move.  On the hydrophilic surface, the droplet is 
driven by gravity effect only, but on the gradient ones the droplet is 
not only driven by gravity effect, but the unbalanced surface tension. 
The experiment results show that drops condense on the gradient 
surface will move to the hydrophilic strips and merge the drops 
quickly such that the condensation heat flux is enhanced effectively 
(Figure 6).  However, condensing drops merge and form a complete 
liquid film on a hydrophilic surface, the condensation speed slows 
down since the liquid film causes a large thermal resistance that 
degrades the heat transfer efficiency. In this case, condensation 
mechanism changes from drop-wise condensation to film-wise 
condensation. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] John P.Longtin,Kunio Hilikata,Kuniyast Ogawa,“Laser-induced surface-
tension-driven flows in liquids ”,Journal of heat transfer , PP.85-93,1998 
[2] Wasan, D. T., Nikolov, A. D., and Brenner, H., 2001, “Fluid Dynamics : 
Droplets Speeding on Surfaces,” Science, Vol. 291, pp. 605-606. 
[3] Daniel, S., Chaudhury, M. K., and Chen, J. C., 2001, “Fast Drop Movements 
Resulting from the Phase Change on a Gradient Surface,” Science, Vol. 291, 
pp.633-636. 
[4] Tzong-Shyng. Leu, Hung-Wen Li, “Enhancement of Phase Change Heat 
Transfer by using Surface Energy Patterning Techniques”, Proceeding of  IEEE 
International Conference on Nano/Micro Engineered and Molecular Systems, 
2006 
 
 
 
Figure. 1.  Droplet movement on a surface tension gradient surface 
 
 
