2行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
應用特徵屬性聯想資料庫於輔助產品創意發想Ⅲ（第三年）
The Application of the Feature-matching Database on Design Creativity
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-009-075-
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 10 月 31 日
主持人：林銘煌 交通大學應用設計研究所
共同主持人：邱文科 長庚大學工業設計系
一、中文摘要
對工業設計而言，目前尚無真正的電
腦輔助「設計」軟體，而是電腦輔助「繪
圖」軟體，因為它們幫助的是繪圖工作，
而不是思考與創意。人類如創意般的思考
模式一直是電腦無法取代人腦的部分，如
果電腦能模擬出某種人類的創意思考模
式，將是一大突破。
在人類的頭腦中充滿著過去學習的知
識或經驗，如能充分應用這些知識或經
驗，好的想法就會層出不窮，然而大部分
的想法被禁錮在頭腦裡，難以出現。其中，
聯想是打開沈睡在頭腦深處記憶，最簡單
的鑰匙，然而要如何達到有效率的聯想，
則是研究最大的課題。比喻即是聯想的一
種，在生活器物設計史中，不難發現比喻
設計比比皆是，而如何利用這些比喻邏
輯，快速提供刺激設計創意的方法，便是
本研究的目標。
基於人類認知時特徵比對的現象，本
計劃藉用比喻邏輯的思考模式，期望架構
出智慧型的設計參考資料庫，透過符號、
屬性、及屬性值等資料的建檔、連結、查
尋，有效的提供設計時，快速的聯想和比
喻式的創意。本研究主要分為九個階段，
計畫以三年來執行，(1)建立比喻設計邏輯
圖文資料庫(2)現有比喻設計產品收集與
表現手法分類。 (3)基本資料的輸入擴充
和搜尋(4)試用與修正 (5)實例設計檢驗
成效(6) 專用查尋資料之介面設計(7)圖文
連結 (8)研究外掛在構想發展軟體內的可
能性(9)歸納研究成果。
關鍵詞：工業設計、暗喻、資料庫、創
意
Abstract
For industrial design, there is no real
software about "computer aid design", but
the "computer aid painting". Because they
did not provide the function for helping
thinking or creating new ideas, but only
tools for carrying out the work of the
drawing. The model of the human thinking
such as creativity is different from computer
calculation and it is not replaceable by
computer so far.
There is many knowledge or experiences in
the brain of the mankind. If they can be
well applied, the good ideas will pile up one
after another, however it does happen like
that.  Our ‘sleeping’ memory always needs 
to be open by inspiration, and the
association is the key. Metaphor is one
kind of association; we can see that easily in
the history of human artifact. And how to
apply the logic of metaphor in computer
program and to provide efficient association
in design are the main topics of this study.
Based on the theory of feature-matching, by
extending the logic of metaphor in design,
the research expects to establish a intelligent
database consisted of signs, attributions,
attribution features and the way of
connection and searching, in order to
provide efficient association and creativity
in design. There are 9 steps in the research,
they are: (1) establishing a special database
for stimulate association (2) establishing the
second database about product reference
archives (3) connecting two database (4)
4不再因為輸入較多的字數，而出現找不到
任何資料的窘境。(c)以單一獨立視窗為操
作介面，並有圖片做為視覺輔助，增添操
作的便利性。(d)屬性的權重共分為五個等
級，資料的數量不會出現過多的情況，還
可鈎選顯示視窗中左邊的空格，以保留適
用的屬性資料，得以再進階搜尋下一筆的
資料。
第三年的計劃屬於本研究資料庫修正
和檢驗階段，旨在測試比喻設計資料庫應
用上的問題。執行三年計劃中的(6)試用與
修正(7) 實例設計檢驗成效(8)可易於擴充
資料的網路版(9)歸納研究成果等階段，詳
述如下：
(6) 試用與修正:專用查尋介面設計之
試用與修正，把資料放入專屬查詢系統，
進行試用，檢測其實用性，並適當的修正
系統介面，並檢討資料庫的擴充性。
(7)實例設計檢驗成效：以實務設計為
例，代入學校教學課程，以生活產品為題，
進行設計構想發展。以使用前與使用後試
驗其成效。在此階段的實驗，主要目的在
於了解以比喻式設計為設計方法時，設計
者在構想發展過程中，自行操作比喻式設
計資料庫對設計過程的影響。另外也要了
解這個比喻式設計資料庫的介面操作上的
缺失。實驗採用非參與式觀察法進行，並
配合影音回溯法(Akin, 1995)以及放聲思
考 法 (Ericsson&Simon, 1980; Dorst,
1995)來對設計者的思考聯想過程進行探
索與比對。受測者條件為具有形體創作能
力及傳統媒材表現能力的設計研究生，則
至少有 4 年以上的設計經驗。實驗軟體為
比喻式設計資料庫(v1.0 版，第二年發展完
成之版本)。
本實驗有 6 位受測者，進行三個階段
的設計主題測試，第一階段以馬克杯的把
手進行熱身實驗，讓受測者熟悉放聲思考
法以及影音回溯法。第二階段在不使用資
料庫的狀況下進行椅子設計的題目。第三
階段則是在使用比喻式設計資料庫下進
行，以燈具設計為題目。在實驗中，由於
受測者可以自行操作比喻式設計資料庫，
從口語資料中發現，受測者會在設計過程
當中分階段多次的使用資料庫來做為輔
助。在操作介面有圖片輔助的情況下，能
夠透過比喻式設計資料庫的輔助對未曾見
過的事物進行聯想。另外，由於可以利用
多重特徵同時進行比對搜尋，並且在保留
想要的結果後，進行下一次的再搜尋，因
此可以先行彙集搜尋後的結果，不用進行
重複性的操作，也可以減輕設計者記憶上
的負擔。
而從口語資料中發現，透過比喻式設
計資料庫的輔助，除了有助於刺激產生更
多的構想外，也可以發現參考物件的構想
刺激，會從功能性發展的傾向轉移到情感
性發展的傾向。但是從影音回溯法的資料
當中也發現使用者要回顧整個思考脈絡
時，由於並沒有對關鍵字進行記錄及保
存，因此難以暸解整個思考脈絡的變化，
所以會另外再使用新的關鍵字，發展出其
6能力有著個別的差異性，因而對於構想草
圖繪製的圖面掌握能力也隨之不同，而對
設計過程的效率有所影響，同樣地也對構
想發展時所運用的時間及產出的數量亦會
造成影響，在後續的研究中應予以規範限
制。而受測者運用資料庫後，對於所獲得
的資料進行分析時，亦因個別的分析能力
不同，因此造成所搜尋產生的資料量不均
等，影響後續設計篩選花費的時間，及構
想的多寡。然而，目前也發現在軟體功能
上並沒有對使用者所進行的搜尋進行關鍵
字記錄及保存，因此難以了解設計師的思
考脈絡的變化，這也是未來研究可以再改
善的地方。
五、計劃成果自評
本研究經過三年來的嘗試，從專用查
尋資料的邏輯架構，經軟體應用，到介面
設計有了大致的雛形，也經過多方的測
試。從各方面的回饋，證實軟體的操作應
用對設計師在自由發想階段有相當大的幫
助，已達到預期的結果。然而這些研究仍
只是停留在實驗室階段，我們希望在未來
仍有更大的發展空間，首先那需要更多的
參考物和其更準確的屬性，以做更深入的
研究和商業化的應用。
目前本研究三年來的成果，已發表一
篇 2007 年由香港主辦的設計研討會 IASDR
論文，請見英文附件一，之後將仔細整理，
再投搞國內外相關期刊。
六、參考文獻
1. Akin, O. (1995). Design protocol data and novel
design decision, Design Studies. Vol. 16, No 2,
pp.211-236.
2. Ericsson, K.A. & Simon, H.A. (1993). Protocol
analysis: verbal reports as data, MIT Press.
Cambridge.
3. Jencks, Charles 1980. 'The Architectural Sign", in
Signs. Symbols. and Architecture. Chichester: John
Wiley & Sons, p.p. 72-118.
4. Krohn, Lisa and Michael McCoy 1989. 'Beyond
Beige: Interpretative Design for the Post-industrial
Age.', Design Issues, Vol. 5, No. 2, Spring, p.p.
112-23.
5. Smets, Gerda 1989. 'Perceptual Meaning', Design
Issues, Vol. 5, No. 2, Spring. p.p. 86-99.
6. 柿崎佑一 1997. 心理學實驗與測驗之基礎，台
北：五南.
7. 林銘煌 2000. 產品造形中的符號與符碼，設計學
報，第五卷，第二期，p.p. 73-82.
8. 林銘煌 2001. 產品造形中的編碼與解碼，設計學
報，第六卷，第二期，p.p. 39-52.
9. 林銘煌、黃慶賢 2002. 比喻設計的邏輯關連與視
覺認知，設計學報，第七卷，第二期，p.p. 1-22.
10. 曾慧敏 等翻譯 2001. 西爾格德心理學(上、
下)，台北：桂冠.
11. 張悟非 1994. ‘產品造形基本圖素零件庫在
CAID 系統的建構方法探討’，83 年技術與教學研
討會論文集（工業設計組），p.99-114.
12. 莊明振、陳俊智 1994. ‘中西坐椅設計風格認
知之探討’ ，83 年技術與教學研討會論文集（工
業設計組），p.129-142.
13. 鄭昭明 1997. 認知心理學，台北:桂冠.
14. 周君瑞、陳國祥 1999， ‘流線型風格產品之
形態建構方法研究’，中華民國設計學會第五屆設
計學術研究成果研討會論文集，p.237-242.
15. 謝雯雅、吳志南、杜瑞澤 2002, ‘焦點聯想法
於設計創意激發之應用研究’， 2002 中華民國設
計學會設計學術研究成果研討會論文集，p.259-262.
8with its better searching model and interface. The examination results prove that it can reduce
the time designers spend in association and increase the amount of references for generating
appropriate ideas.
Keywords: industrial design, metaphor, product semantics
1. INTRODUCTION
In the early design stage, the concept development is very much base on a designer’ s
association ability which is triggered by any possible referential materials. This means that the
generation of design concept is very much relied on designer’ s imagination and experience. It
is like creative of art, the inspiration is very much intangible. If we can find a way to assist the
designers association and drive it much faster and more efficiently, it will be very helpful for
expanding ideas.
2. LITERATURE SURVEY
A metaphor is an imaginative way of describing something by referring to something else which
has the qualities that one is trying to express. This Referring effect will change the original
meaning of the object because of symbolic quality; however successful design still makes its
10
basin plug ‘ Help me’ is developed based on the concept of rescuing and drowning.
Fig. 3: CD Player, Muji, Design by Naoto Fukazawa.
Fig. 4:Wash basin plug ‘ Help Me’ , Propaganda..
Based on their definitions in linguistics, Lin has tried to clarify the logics and differences among
metaphor, simile, metonymy, allegory, and analogy. (Lin & Huang, 2002) For example, the logic
of metaphor is illustrated in Fig. 5 and explained below. A is an existent entity which possesses
the features (or attributes) al, a2, a3…, etc., and their values are Va1, Va2, Va3…, etc., As
represents the shape of A, and Ap represents part of A. X is an unknown entity which
possesses the features x1, x2, x3…, etc., and their values are Vx1, Vx2, Vx3…, etc., Xs is
unknown, and Xp is part of X. The logic of metaphor is because Va1 is bigger than Vx1, so As
are used as references to express Xs. To take ‘ the rose in her cheeks’ as an example, the
logic of metaphor is: because the color of roses is redder than the color of the central parts of her
12
with pointer to build up the entire structure. The unit can be the concept of an object, event, or
idea, such as ‘ owl’ ; property tends to describe unit’ s feature, for example ‘ sad’ . It is
assumed that the job of cognition in our mind work like this model will be more economy and less
loading. However, because TLC model does not forecast typicality effect, interpret the semantic
distance of reversal effect and the negation effect, Smith and his colleagues proposed a
modification. (Smith, Shoben, & Rips, 1974) In the new model, it sees that a concept is
represented by a set of features consisted of defining features and characteristic features. For
example, the defining features of an owl are ‘ able to fly’ , ‘ with wings’ , ‘ with feathers’
which can be viewed as common attributes among the birds (See middle level in Fig. 6), and
‘ nocturnal’ would be the unique attribute of an owl.
Fig. 6: TLC model suggests that human knowledge is structured in a hierarchical network, Collins & Quillian
(1969)
In fact what we see in our daily lives are complex concepts composed of two or more features,
14
inspiration.
In the whole design process, computer programs right now are able to offer the great help to
design especially CAD and CAM which lightens the designer’ s work and offer many creative
options. In the field of industrial design, computer programs generally can be categorized into
modeling and rendering programs, analytical programs, and database programs. Related to our
study, we find several types of researches have been developed based on database programs.
For example, Cheung divides Classical Chinese Ming dynastic wooden chairs into several parts,
and use the data bank to rebuild the thousands of combinations (Cheung, 1994). Hsiao applies
the semantic differences (SD) with the adjective descriptions to sort out the locations of designs
in our mind for helping find out our demand for new designs within his design data bank (Hsiao,
1997). Subsequently, the idea of databank and semantic feelings can be expanded from rough
design suggestion to a specific design style series, such as Apple computer (Lin &Chen, 2000).
And from cultural aspects, Lin takes Chinese kettle design as a case study to examine how the
contours of a vernacular object dominate its identification. By manipulating the character of
each component with computer 3D morphing and replacing methods, thousands of rendering are
generated between one typical universal kettle and five typical Chinese ceramic teapots for
programming and testing people’ s cognition.
16
in each module in Microsoft Excel and testing the usability and interface design requirement.
Finally, developing its own program according to the feedback and examining its real function.
3.1. LOGICAL STRUCTURE
With what we learn above and teaching experience in design practice, we settle a concrete
logical structure for the database. Based on the feature-matching theory, by extending the logic
of metaphor in design, the research first establishes a database consisted of concepts (objects)
and their features (attributions) in various categories. It should offer the relevant information for
design among the possible association. In the early version, the concepts (objects) and their
pictures are gathered from books, magazines, and internet resources. There are totally around
700 concepts at the beginning. The concepts (objects) are divided into two groups, natural
substances and artifacts. Natural substances include planet, river, plant, animal, ear, etc.
Artifacts include various objects used in daily lives, such as spoon, shoe, car, house, etc.
Features are divided into 5 groups consisted of unique motion, special behavior, and detail
character as characteristic feature, and overall appearance, and similarity as defining feature.
Taking Jellyfish as an example (see Table 1), its unique motion is swimming and floating, its
special behavior is luminescence, overall appearance is like an umbrella with transparent white,
18
Fig.7: Some interfaces in the operation process.
3.3. THE SECOND VERSION OF DATABASE
For breaking through the constraint of searching options, we turn Excel version into a new one
which is developed for its own purpose. It is written by ‘ Access’ and ‘ Visual Basic’ and
has much friendly interface. It can search related data which is located in the both dimension of
horizontal and vertical modules in the matrixes. The simple interface of the program is divided
into four parts-A: picture area, B: multiple search engines, C: content area and D: double
checking and continues searching option. (See Figure 8)
20
show the individual ideas with sketches by the subject B and sentences by the subject E.
Fig. 9: The individual ideas with sketches by the subject B.
Fig.10: The individual ideas with sentences by the subject E
The subject B, for example, selects portable objects as reference to develop his ideas for the
demand of portable lighting design. In the process of association, he begins with ‘ clothes’
and ‘ mug’ , then extend the concept of ‘ wearing’ from ‘ clothes’ and ‘ lamp shade’
form ‘ mug’ . From the character of refraction of light, he ever thinks of a glass and then come
out with a teacup. In the final design, he takes martini cup to shape the form of a lamp, a piece
of ‘ lemon’ on the top becomes its switch, and the ‘ olive’ inside the lamp is the bulb. In the
22
Fig. 12: The analysis of ideas developing process for subject E.
4.2. EXPERIMENT TWO
24
Fig. 14: The idea developing process and result by subject A with the help of using database in the second
stage.
4.3. EXPERIMENT THREE
The main purpose of this experiment is to see the effect when the second version of database is
brought to use, and at the same time, to examine its improvement with the new interface. The
non-participant observation technique and think aloud (Ericsson & Simon, 1980, Dorst. 1995) are
26
time cost, the less time is spent to get an idea when applying the database. Without database, it
takes 112’ 43” to develop the ideas in average. With the help of database, participants spent
58’ 6” in developing ideas and 29’ 12” in getting help of searching database, thus it takes
totally only 85’ 22” in average. Without the help of database, examinee A and I (who have
more ideas) have produced 9 ideas, and examinee D (who has less ideas) has created 3 ideas;
the number of association is from 15 to 24. With the help of database, examinee A and I (who
have more ideas again) have 15 ideas, and examinee B, E, H (who have less ideas this time) has
9 ideas; the number of association is from 23 to 39.
5.3. THE RESULTS OF EXPERIMENT THREE
In this stage of the experiment, it finds out examinees will search data from time to time in the
design process, because they could operate the software by themselves. And the pictures
appear at the same time to represent the concept do help them spread the possible associations,
especially the object which he never sees before. In addition, since it has the function of
remaining the useful keywords, participants do not need to record them before doing the next
search. Users could gather amount of them before sketching the designs.
After analyzing the verbal data, we find that using Feature-Matching Database not only useful to
28
improved in the next version of database in future.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The authors would like to thank the financial support by the National Science Council under grant
number NSC 95-2221-E-009-075-.
REFERENCE
Akin, O. (1995) Design protocol data and novel design decision, Design Studies. Vol. 16, No 2, pp.211-236.
Barsalou, L. W. (1983) Ad hoc categories. Memory and Cognition, 11, pp.211-227.
Bruner, J.S., Goodnow, J.J., & Austin, G. A. (1956) A study of thinking, New York: Wiley.
Cheng, C. M. (1997). Cognitive Psychology: Theory and Implication, Taipei: Qwei-Quan.
Cheung, W. F. (1994) The Study of basic element of Product Forms Applied to Construction CAID System,
Technology and education conference 1994, Taipei, Vol.5, pp.99-104.
Dorst, K. (1995) Analysis design activity: new directions in protocol analysis, Design Studies, Vol. 16, no.2,
pp.139-142.
Ericsson, K.A. & Simon, H.A. (1993) Protocol analysis: verbal reports as data, MIT Press. Cambridge.
Hsiao S. W., Chen. C. H., (1997) A semantic and shape grammar based approach for product design,
Design Study, Vol. 18. pp.275-296.
Krippendorff, K. (1990) Product Semantics: A Triangulation and Four Design Theories, Product
Semantics ’ 89 Conference, Helsinki, pp.a3-a23.
Lin, M.H. (2000) The Encoding and Decoding in Product Design, Journal of Design, vol.5-2. pp.73-82.
Lin, M.H., & Huang C. (2002) The Logic of The Figurative Expressions and Cognition in Design Practices,
Journal of Design, vol7-2. pp.1-22.
Lin, M. H., Teng, C. W., & Fang, Y. M. (2006) The Feature Manipulation and Cognition in Contemporary
Vernacular Design, The Science of Design. (accepted)
Lin, Y. X., Chen, G. X. (2000) The Study of Constructing Style Forms from Apple Company, The 5th Design
Academic Research Conference, Changhua, pp. 219-224.
McCoy, K. & McCoy, M. (1990) The New Discourse, The New Cranbrook Design Discourse,New York, pp.
14-19.
