 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ;成果報告   □期中進度報告 
 
 
具自我聚焦超音波陣列之 micro-IPMC 致動器研發(2/2) 
 
 
計畫類別：;個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號： NSC － 100－2628－ E －194－010 
 
執行期間：2011 年 8 月  1 日至 2012 年 10 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立中正大學 機械工程學系 
 
計畫主持人：馮國華 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：黃偉倫、劉金旻 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  ;完整報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
中   華   民   國 101 年 9 月  28 日 
 
 
 
 
附件一 
 2
目錄 
 
頁數 
1. Introduction ………………………………………………………………………………………….   3 
2. Device design and working principle ……………………………………………………………….. 3 
3. Device fabrication ……………………………………………………………………………………   5 
4. Experimental methods …………………………………………………………………………… ….   5 
5. Results and discussion ………………………………………………………………………………..   6  
6. Conclusion ……………………………………………………………………………………………   7 
7. References ……………………………………………………………………………………………   8 
8. Figures ………………………………………………………………………………………………..   10  
 4
column handle. The clamp and column handle portion were each designed to be half the length of the device.  
The active clamp was designed with longer fingers and with larger width and thickness than previously 
reported transducers [16]. The purpose of this design was to enable greater force output of the U-type clamp 
through larger displacement. The handle part plays the role of structurally merging the two fingers of the 
clamp, and is also responsible for the electrical signal transmission from the actuating power source to the 
fingers.  
Three active electrodes were fabricated in this novel clamp transducer. One electrode was plated on the 
inner surface of the clamp portion; the other two electrodes were plated onto the individual outer surface of 
the clamp portion. Three narrow-plated metal electrodes plated on the handle part of the device functioned as 
the wire to connect active electrodes to the power source (Fig. 1). To operate the tuning fork-shaped clamp, 
the two outer surface electrodes were connected, and the driving signals were sent to the outer and inner 
surface electrodes of the device.  
 
3. DEVICE FABRICATION 
A 1mm deep cavity was constructed on a flat plane by gluing glass slides around a 10cm x 10cm glass 
plate, making the walls of the 1mm cavity. This was followed by pipetting SU8-100 photoresist to fill the 
cavity. A 1μm-thick parylene membrane was conformally coated on the glass cavity to prevent SU8-formed 
templates from sticking on the glass mold during subsequent removal. After soft baking, SU8 was patterned 
as the designed templates, including a device region for creating the tuning fork-shaped IPMC clamps and a 
refill region to replenish the liquid Nafion solution. Following this, two identical SU8 templates peeled from 
the glass cavity were aligned, and instant glue was applied to join the templates to complete a 2μm-thick 
template with multiple distinct tuning fork-shaped IPMC devices. Next, the 2μm-thick SU8 template was 
glued to the center region of another 10cm x 10cm glass plate, and 4mm-thick glass slides were glued around 
the glass plate to form a cavity with the SU8 template inside. Liquid PDMS was poured to fill the cavity, 
while being careful to avoid the formation of air bubbles at the liquid PDMS/SU8 template interface. The 
shaped PDMS mold was solidified at room temperature after 12h, and was subsequently removed from the 
glass cavity.  
The PDMS mold was glued to a 10cm x 10cm glass plate for subsequent Nafion device fabrication (Fig.2). 
A thin parylene was deposited onto the entire unit, done so for the following two purposes: 1) reducing the 
surface adhesion force between the liquid Nafion solution and the PDMS mold to enable the device to 
maintain a planar upper surface [13]; and 2) easy peeling of the solidified Nafion devices from the PDMS 
mold. Liquid Nafion was then added into the refill region to fill the whole mold. The poured Nafion solution 
solidified after approximately one and a half hours. The shaped Nafion element was removed, and the refill 
region was sliced to obtain Nafion devices of various designs. 
Fig. 3 illustrates the fabrication process to form multiple electrodes on the device. A piece of patterned 
tape was attached to the Nafion device as the shadow mask to define the inactive regions of the transducer. 
The tape was patterned using a laser-machining tool controlled by a computer. AZ5214 photoresist was then 
sprayed onto the tape-attached Nafion device to form the selective protection layer. The shadow mask was 
subsequently removed, and chemical electroding processing was executed to plate nickel electrodes on the 
active regions of the clamp transducer.   
The nickel plating procedure is as follows: The concentration of 1M nickel sulfate solution was first 
 6
PDMS with the dimensions of 1.2mm x 1mm x 1mm. The small PDMS column was horizontally placed close 
to the front end of the lower finger before the actuating signal was applied to the IPMC clamp. In both 
experiments, a 3.5-mm-long backend portion of the handle of the transducer was anchored to the fixture.  
 
5. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
Fig. 7 shows the measured voltages across and currents flowing through the transducer when 4V and 8V 
driving signals were provided. During actuation of the IPMC clamp, the polarity switching and the polarity of 
the 0.01 Hz square wave were unspecified when turning on the function generator. Hence, the driving 
voltages across the transducer exhibited a positive value and a negative value during application of external 
voltages of 4V and 8V, respectively. In addition, the first switching points occurred at approximately 35s and 
20s, and switched the polarities every alternate 50s for the 4V and 8V cases. The consuming current of the 
transducer and voltage across the transducer were proportional to the external applied voltages when reaching 
a steady state.   
Fig. 8 shows the measured displacement results of points A, B, and C, which correspond to the driving 
signals shown in Fig. 7. The coordinate is defined as positive down in this study. We observed the motion at 
point B exactly as expected, moving upward (i.e., toward a fully closed clamp state) when positive voltage 
was applied to the outer electrodes of the clamp and moving downward when negative voltage was applied to 
the outer electrodes of clamp. This was caused by the hydrocations moving toward the cathode of the IPMC 
transducer [9]. Point A shows the motion as expected in the interval between 35s and 85s and between 32s 
and 72s for the 4V and 8V cases, respectively. The two time intervals were within the second-half period of 
the driving square wave. For the 8V case, the second-half period of actuating signal (22s-72s) was supposed 
to cause the clamp to approach a fully closed state. However, a downward displacement was displayed in 
22s-32s. Moreover, the displacement of point A exhibited a relatively small value compared to point B.  
Valuable information was obtained after assessing the displacement at point C. The unsymmetrical design 
caused the displacement at point C to vary as a function of time. The same displacement trend was observed 
in points B and C before the first polarity switching (for both 4V and 8V) and obviously for the larger 
actuation voltage case after switching. Results indicate the crucial role of the connected electrodes traveling 
through the side surfaces of the transducer and their possessing of various layouts. The middle connected 
electrode design on the lower handle part of the transducer induced a larger motion effect than the two-side 
electrode design on the upper handle part, especially at the neck region of the transducer (close to the end 
portion of two fingers). This may be a valuable topic for further exploration. However, because this paper 
focuses on the development of the novel IPMC clamp, this discussion will be presented in the following 
papers.   
Fig. 9 demonstrates that the developed IPMC clamp successfully clamped a soft object. Initially, the 
object was placed on the lower finger of the clamp. The fingers clamped the object at 60s after a DC 4V was 
applied (Fig. 9(b)). Subsequently, the clamp continuously supplied force to squeeze the object. The object was 
intentionally pulled out at approximately 128s (Fig. 9(d)). This test demonstrated that the squeezing behavior 
of the IPMC clamp lasted for more than 1 min. In addition, our earlier work [14] suggested that the current 
signal could be an excellent sensing signal for identifying the behavior of IPMC transducers. This was 
verified by assessing the current flowing through the transducer (Fig. 9(e)). We monitored the moment of the 
object being clamped and pulled out using the feedback current signal. 
 8
 
REFERENCES 
[1] K. J. Kim, M. Shahinpoor, “Ionic polymer-metal composites: II. Manufacturing techniques”, Smart Mater. 
Struct. Vol. 12, pp. 65-79, 2003. 
[2] S. K. De, N. R. Aluru, B. Johnson, W. C. Crone, D. J. Beebe, J. Moore, “Equilibrium swelling and kinetics 
of pH-responsive hydroionic polymer gel: models, experiments and simulation”, J. Miroelectromech. Syst., 
Vol. 11, pp. 544-555, 2002. 
[3] G.-H. Feng, J.-W. Tsai, “Investigation of electrical to mechanical energy conversion of a 
three-dimensional four-electrode multidirectional-controllable IPMC transducer with/without an optical 
fiber enclosed”, Smart Mater. Struct. Vol. 20 015027, 2011. 
[4] I.-S. Park, S.-M. Kim, D. Pugal, L. Huang, T.-C. Suk-Wah, K.J. Kim, “Visualization of the cation 
migration in ionic polymer-metal composite under an electric field”, Applied Physics Letters, Vol. 96, No. 
4, 043301, 2010. 
[5] I. S. Rajay Vedaraj, S. Parijaat, B. V. A. Rao, “Material analysis for artificial muscle and touch sensing of 
cooperative biomimetic manipulators, The International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology, 
doi:10.1007/s00170-011-3640-8, 2010. 
[6] W. J. Yoon, P. G. Reinhall, E. J. Seibel, “Analysis of electro-active polymer bending: A component in a 
low cost ultrathin scanning endoscope”, Sens. and Actuators A, Vol. 133, No. 2, pp. 506-517, 2007. 
[7] I. S. Park, S.-M. Kim, D. Pugal, L. Huang, S.-W. Tam-Chang, and K. J. Kim, “Visualization of the cation 
migration in ionic polymer-metal composite under an electric field”, Appl. Phys. Lett., Vol. 96, 043301, 
2010. 
[8] F. Carpi, R. Kornbluh, P. Sommer-Larsen, G. Alici, “Electroactive polymer actuators as artificial muscles: 
are they ready for bioinspired applications?”, Bioinspiration & Biomimetics, Vol. 6, No.4, 045006, 2011. 
[9] B. J. Akle, D. J. Leo, “Characterization and modeling of extensional and bending actuation in ionomeric 
polymer transducers”, Smart Mater. Struct., Vol. 16,  pp. 1348-1360, 2007.  
[10] S. Liu, R. Montazami, Y. Liu, V. Jain, M. Lin, X. Zhou, J.R. Heflin, Q.M. Zhang, “Influence of the 
conductor network composites on the electromechanical performance of ionic polymer c onductor network 
composite actuators”, Sensors and Actuators A, Vol. 157, pp. 267–275, 2010. 
[11] G.-H. Feng, “Numerical study on dynamic characteristics of micromachined ionic polymer metal 
composite devices based on molecular-scale modeling”, Computational Materials Science, Vol. 50, No. 1, 
pp. 158-166, 2010. 
[12] G.-H. Feng, R.-H. Chen, “Fabrication and characterization of arbitrary shaped μIPMC transducers for 
accurately controlled biomedical applications”, Sens. and Actuators A, Vol. 143, No. 1, pp. 34-40, 2008. 
[13] M. Shahinpoor M, Y. Bar-Cohen, J.Q. Simpson, J. Smith, “Ionic polymer-metal composites (IPMCs) as 
biomimeic sensors, actuators and artificial muscles – a review”,  Smart Mater. Struct., Vol. 7, pp. 15-30, 
1998. 
[14] G.-H. Feng, R.-H. Chen, “Improved cost-effective fabrication of arbitrarily shaped μIPMC transducers”, J. 
Micromech. and Microeng., Vol.18, 015016, pp.1-9, 2008. 
[15] G.-H. Feng, J.-W. Tsai, “Micromachined optical fiber enclosed 4-electrode IPMC actuator with 
multidirectional control ability for biomedical applications”, Biomedical Microdevices, Vol. 13, No. 1, pp. 
169-177, 2011. 
 10
(a)
(c)
(b)
Metal layer
Metal layer
Column 
handle part
U‐type clamp 
part
Fingers
Electrode connected to the 
top outer surface of the  
transducer
Electrode connected to the inner surface 
of the  transducer
Electrode connected to the 
bottom outer surface of the  
transducer
Fingers
Fingers
 
Figure 1. Schematic diagram of the tuning fork-shaped IPMC clamp. 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Fabricated PDMS mold for processing tuning fork-shaped Nafion devices. 
 12
 
DC power 
supply
Function 
generator
Fixture for 
IPMC clamp
Circuitry for 
characterization
A/D convertor
Computer for 
recording data
CCD camera Microscope  
Figure 5. Experimental setup for characterizing the performance of the fabricated IPMC transducers. 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Illustration of three specific points to measure the displacements of the IPMC clamp. 
 
 
 14
(a)
(b)  
Figure 8. Measured displacements (positive downward) at three specific points (ref. Fig. 6) based on the 
driving conditions shown in Fig. 7. 
 
 1
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：101年10 月16 日 
一、參加會議經過 
IEEE International Ultrasonics Symposium 乃是國際性於超音波研究方面重要的
會議之一，會議的舉辦已有相當的歷史，許多與超音波有關的最新研發成果均於此
會議上發表。此會議主要探討的主題包括：Medical Ultrasonics; Sensors, NDE & 
Industrial Applications; Physical Acoustics; Microacoustics - SAW, FBAR, 
MEMS; Tranducers & Transducer Materials 等五大類別。本研究室有幸於本次會
議二篇論文被接受，是故前往參加此會議。本年度會議舉辦地點為德國的德列斯登
(Dresden)，雖為德國重要城市，然因台灣人前往觀光旅遊的人數不多，並無直航班
計畫編號 NSC  － 100 －2628－ E － 194 － 10 
計畫名稱 具自我聚焦超音波陣列之 micro-IPMC 致動器研發 
出國人員
姓名 馮國華 
服務機構
及職稱 國立中正大學機械工程系教授 
會議時間 
101 年 10 月 7 日
至 
101 年 10 月 10 日 
會議地點 德國-德列斯登(Dresden, Germany) 
會議名稱 
(中文) 國際超音波會議 
(英文) 2012 IEEE International Ultrasonics Symposium 
發表題目 
(中文)  聲波驅動之焦距可調之微透鏡陣列應用於波前感測器  
(英文)  Acoustic wave driven focus-tunable liquid microlens array for 
Shack-Hartmann wavefront sensor application 
附件五 
 3
 
三、發表論文全文或摘要 
題目：Acoustic wave driven focus-tunable liquid microlens array for 
Shack-Hartmann wavefront sensor application 
摘要：This paper presents an innovative simple-structured tunable-focus 
Shack-Hartmann wavefront sensor. The device of tuning the focal length of 
liquid micro-lens array by acoustic energy is designed, fabricated, and 
tested. By vibrating the cylindrical device with a rigid sidewall and a 
flexible bottom plate, a pumping effect to cause the convex profile of liquid 
surface and stay the curvature is theoretically described and verified by 
the experiment, when the device is resonant at an appropriate frequency.  We 
implement the device with the structure of a PDMS made membrane as the bottom 
flexible plate, a lead zirconium titanium ring transducer as the cylindrical 
sidewall, and a micromachined SU-8 plate as the top cover. DI water is filled 
inside the device as the lens material. The fabrication process of PDMS 
membrane and an array of micro-hole on the SU-8 plate is described. The 
fabricated device is tested with a collimated laser light setup. Results shows 
that focused spots arrays at different focal distances are clearly obtained 
on a CCD camera while tuning the sinusoidal voltage amplitude at a fixed 
frequency. 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/12/27
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 具自我聚焦超音波陣列之micro-IPMC致動器研發(2/2)
計畫主持人: 馮國華
計畫編號: 100-2628-E-194-010- 學門領域: 微機電系統技術
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
