行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫結案報告 
在叢集與網格運算環境中大量序列比對與分群之效能評估及開發 
On performance evaluation and improvement of large-scale sequence alignment 
and clustering in Cluster and Grid computing environments 
Abstract 
The low-cost and availability of network of workstations have made them attractive solution 
for high performance computing. Striking progress of network technology is enabling 
high-performance global computing, with the utilization of cluster and grid technologies, in 
which computational and data resources in a local or wide area network are transparently 
employed to solve large-scale problems. A computational grid is a collection of distributed 
and heterogeneous computing nodes that has emerged as an important platform for 
computation intensive applications. They enable large-scale aggregation and sharing of 
computational, data and other resources across institutional boundaries. It offers an economic 
and flexible model for solving massive computational problems using large numbers of 
computers, arranged as clusters embedded in a distributed infrastructure. 
Over last few years, interest on biotechnology has increased dramatically. With the 
completion of the sequencing of the human genome, such interest is likely to expand even 
more rapidly. The size of genetic information database doubles every 14 months, overtaxing 
any existing computational tool for data analysis. There is a persistent and continuous search 
for new alternatives or new technologies, all with the common goal of improving overall 
performance. 
Due to the progress of technologies and the efforts of researchers, biologists have already 
learned more biological information of sequences, and they would like to have a multiple 
sequence alignment (MSA) of their datasets that guarantees that the positions of interest are 
aligned together.  
The goal of this research project is to propose a number of computational techniques and 
methods that improve overall performance and computational speedup using cluster and grid 
technologies, in order to improve overall MSA algorithm’s computation. With these results in 
hand, we have adequate techniques and suitable methods to contribute for such performance 
achievement of the proposed research. 
 
Keywords - Cluster and Grid Technologies, sequence alignment, EST clustering, constrained 
alignment. 
of larger data sets. Similarly, the use of such algorithm techniques and strategies will assist 
with reduction of execution time on sequence alignment computations. 
 
 
3. Investigation and Expected Results 
Design of novel techniques and experimental results obtained under support of this 
research project can be listed as:  
1. Design and implementation of strategies and techniques for pairwise alignment and 
existing EST clustering algorithms in cluster and grid platforms, in order to take 
advantage of such system designs,  
1.1. Data distribution and locality, at run-time level, 
1.2. Data redistribution at compiler-level for parallelizing compilers, 
1.3. Parallel Loop Self-Scheduling Scheme, 
1.4. Collective computing techniques, 
1.5. Scheduling, 
1.6. Performance monitoring and application evaluation toolkit, 
2. Web-based Portal to accommodate bioinformatics applications, in order to make easy 
the manipulation of pairwise or multiple biological sequence alignment applications, 
3. Strategy design and performance evaluation in Data Grid environments, including 
data caching and placement, 
4. Performance evaluation of layered strategies on cluster and grid platforms, such as 
homogeneous DSM, heterogeneous DSM and wireless DSM, including also 
strategies for data prefetching schemes and load balancing, in order to accelerate 
overall computation, 
5. Construction of computational and data grid environments, and their performance 
evaluation, 
6. Applications with computational complexity as high as EST clustering, we could 
successfully perform analysis investigating nailfold capillary microscopy image 
analysis, demonstrating viability and functionality of algorithmic techniques and 
strategies developed. 
 
 
4. Conclusions and Discussion 
During the period of 24 months spent in this research project, a number of novel 
Microscopy Image Analysis and Diagnosis Framework using Grid Technology”, in 
Journal of High Speed Networks, Special Issue on “Broadband Multimedia Sensor 
Networks in Healthcare Applications”, IOS Press, Netherlands, 2007. (SCI) (to appear) 
2. Kuan-Ching Li and Hsun-Chang Chang, “The Design and Implementation of Visuel 
Performance Monitoring and Analysis Toolkit for Cluster and Grid Environments”, in 
The Journal of Supercomputing, Special Issue “High Performance Computing System 
and Practice”, Springer, 2006. (SCI) (to appear) 
3. Ching-Hsien Hsu, Ming-Hao Chen, Chao-Tung Yang, and Kuan-Ching Li, “Optimizing 
Communications of Dynamic Data Redistribution on Symmetrical Matrices in 
Parallelizing Compilers”, in IEEE Transactions in Parallel and Distributed Systems, vol. 
17, no. 11, 2006. (SCI) 
4. Hsiao-Hsi Wang, Kuan-Ching Li, Kuo-Jen Wang, and Ssu-Hsuan Lu, “On the Design 
and Implementation of an Effective Prefetch Strategy for DSM Systems”, in The Journal 
of Supercomputing, vol. 37, no. 1, pp. 91-112, Springer, July 2006. (SCI) 
5. Chao-Tung Yang, Kuan-Wei Cheng and Kuan-Ching Li, “An Enhanced Parallel Loop 
Self-Scheduling Scheme for Cluster Environments”, in The Journal of Supercomputing, 
vol. 34, no. 3, pp. 315-335, Springer, December 2005. (SCI) 
 
6.2 Book Chapters 
6. Kuan-Ching Li, Tsung-Ying Wu, Ching-Hsien Hsu, Hsiao-Hsi Wang and Shin-Yi Lin, 
“Towards Database Design for Implementation of Economy Issues in Grid 
Environments”, book chapter in book entitled “Cooperative Internet Computing”, World 
Scientific Publisher, 2007. 
7. Tsung-Ying Wu, Kuan-Ching Li, Ching-Hsien Hsu, Shin-Yi Lin and Ming-Hsiao Lee, 
“Toward Merging of Economy Business Models into Grid Technology in NCHC 
GOCPortal”, book chapter in book entitled “Cooperative Internet Computing”, World 
Scientific Publisher, 2007. 
 
6.3 Lecture Notes in Computer Science / Springer 
8. Hsiao-Hsi Wang, Kuang-Jui Wang, Chien-Long Chou, Ssu-Hsuan Lu and Kuan-Ching Li, 
“A Comparative Study of Memory Structures for DSM Systems on Wireless 
Environments”, in ICCS’2006 The 2006 International Conference on Computational 
Science, LNCS 3991, Vassil N. Alexandrov, Geert Dick van Albada, Peter M.A. Sloot, 
Jack Dongarra (Eds.), Springer, UK, 2006. (SCIE) 
9. Ching-Hsien Hsu, Ming-Yuan Own, and Kuan-Ching Li, “Critical-Task Anticipation 
16. Kuan-Ching Li, Hsiao-Hsi Wang, Chiou-Nan Chen, Chun-Chieh Liu, Chia-Fu Chang, 
Chia-Wen Hsu, Sheng-Shiang Hung, “Design Issues of a Novel Toolkit for Parallel 
Application Performance Monitoring and Analysis in Cluster and Grid Environments”, 
in I-SPAN’2005 The 8th IEEE International Symposium on Parallel Architectures, 
Algorithms, and Networks, USA, 2005. (SCIE) 
17. Chao-Tung Yang, Kuan-Ching Li, Wen-Chung Chiang, and Po-Chi Shih, “Design and 
Implementation of TIGER Grid: an Integrated Metropolitan-Scale Grid Environment”, in 
PDCAT’2005 The 6th IEEE International Conference on Parallel and Distributed 
Computing, Applications and Techniques, PR China, 2005. (SCIE) 
 
6.5 Other Papers 
18. Chun-Chieh Yang, Ssu-Hsuan Lu, Hsiao-Hsi Wang, and Kuan-Ching Li, “On Design and 
Implementation of Adaptive Data Classification Scheme for DSM Systems”, in 
ISPA’2006 The 4th International Symposium on Parallel and Distributed Processing and 
Applications, LNCS, Springer, Italy, 2006. (SCIE) 
19. Jason Hung, Kuan-Ching Li, Wonjun Lee, and Timothy Shih, “Evolution of 
Ubi-Autonomous Entities”, in UIC’2006 The 3rd International Conference on 
Ubiquitous Intelligence and Computing, LNCS 4159, J. Ma et al. (Eds.), Springer, China, 
2006. (SCIE) 
20. Kuan-Ching Li, Chuan-Ko Tsai, Yin-Te Tsai, and Hsiao-Hsi Wang, “Toward Design of a 
E-Learning Platform in Grid Environments”, in GCA’2006 The 2006 International 
Conference on Grid Computing and Applications / WORLDCOMP’2006 Congress, USA, 
2006.  
21. Ssu-Hsuan Lu, Chien-Long Chou, Kuang-Jui Wang, Hsiao-Hsi Wang and Kuan-Ching Li, 
“Design Issues of Prefetching Strategies for Heterogeneous Software DSM”, in 
CCGrid’2006 The IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Cluster Computing and the 
Grid, IEEE CS Press, Singapore, 2006. (SCIE) 
22. Ping-Ho Ting, Kuan-Ching Li, Ping-Yu Hsu, Chun-Chung Wei and Hsiang-Kai Liao, 
“Distributing Users with Profile and Buffer Constraint in Enterprise Systems”, in 
AINA’2006 The 20th IEEE International Conference on Advanced Information 
Networking and Applications, Austria, 2006. (SCIE) 
