Abstract
We investigate a multiple hypothesis test designed for detecting signals em-
bedded in noisy observations of a sensor array. The global level of the mul-
tiple test is controlled by the false discovery rate (FDR) criterion recently
suggested by Benjamini and Hochberg instead of the classical familywise
error rate (FWE) criterion. The suggested procedure has shown promising
results on simulated data. In addition, we carefully examine the indepen-
dence condition required by the Benjamini Hochberg procedure to ensure
the control of FDR. Based on the properties of beta distribution, we proved
the applicability of the Benjamini Hochberg procedure to the underlying
test. Further simulation results show that the false alarm rate is less than
0.02 for a choice of FDR as high as 0.1, implying the reliability of the test
has not been affected by the increase in power.
Keywords: multiple hypothesis test, detection, false discovery rate, Ben-
jamini Hochberg procedure.
2 Problem Formulation
Consider an array of n sensors receiving m narrow band signals emitted by far-field
sources located at θ=[ θ1,. . ., θm]
T . The array output x(t) ∈Cn×1 can be expressed
as
x(t) =H(θ)s(t) + n(t), t = 1, . . . , T (1)
where the ith column of the matrix
H(θ) = [d(θ1) · · ·d(θi) · · ·d(θm)] (2)
d(θi) ∈ C
n×1 is the steering vector associated with the signal arriving from the
direction θi. The signal waveform s(t) = [s1(t),. . ., sm(t)]
T ∈ Cm×1 is considered
as deterministic and unknown. Furthermore, the noise vector n(t) ∈Cn×1 is inde-
pendent, identically complex normally distributed with zero mean and covariance
matrix σ2I, where σ2 is the unknown noise spectral parameter and I is an identity
matrix of corresponding dimension. Based on the set of observations {x(t)}Tt=1, the
problem of central interest is to determine the number of signals m.
3 Signal Detection Using a Multiple Hypothesis Test
We formulate the problem of detecting the number of signals as a multiple hypothesis
test. LetM denote the maximal number of sources. The following procedure detects
one signal after another. More precisely, for m = 1,
H1 : Data contains only noise.
x(t) = n(t)
A1 : Data contains at least 1 signals.
x(t) =H1(θ1)s1(t) + n(t) (3)
For m = 2, . . . ,M
Hm : Data contains at most (m− 1) signals.
x(t) =Hm−1(θm−1)sm−1(t) + n(t)
Am : Data contains at least m signals.
x(t) =Hm(θm)sm(t) + n(t) (4)
The steering matrix and signal vector are given by Hm(θm) = [d(θ1), . . . ,d(θm)]
and sm(t) =[s1(t),. . ., sm(t)]
T , respectively.
Based on the likelihood ratio (LR) principle, we obtain the test statistics Tm(θˆm),
(m = 1, . . . ,M) as follows.
Tm(θˆm) = log
(
tr[(I − Pm−1(θˆm−1))Rˆ]
tr[(I − Pm(θˆm))Rˆ]
)
(5)
= log
(
1 +
n1
n2
Fm(θˆm)
)
, (6)
2
Independence of Test Statistics
In [4], we applied the Benjamini-Hochberg procedure based on the conjecture that
the test statistics Tm (m = 1, . . . ,M) are conditionally independent given (I −
Pm(θˆ)). In [5], based one the properties of beta distribution, we proved that the
test statistics under the null hypotheses Hm are independent. Consequently, the
FDR of the multiple test (3) is controlled by the Benjamini Hochberg procedure.
5 Simulation
In the previous study [4], we compared the FDR- and FWE-controlling procedure
for various numbers of signals and different sample sizes. Here, we consider two
important cases: 1. Signal sources are closely located. 2. Array output contains
only noise. A uniformly linear array of 15 sensors with inter-element spacings of half
a wavelength is used in all experiments. Each experiment performs 100 trials.
In the first experiment, the narrow band signals are generated by m = 12 sources
of equal amplitudes. The number of snapshots is given by T = 20. The SNR varies
from −8 dB to 8 dB in a 1 dB step. For comparison, the simulated data is applied
to the Bonferroni-Holm procedure [6] as well. The sequentially rejective Bonferroni-
Holm procedure keeps the FWE at the same level α as the classical Bonferroni
test but is more powerful than it. The significance level of each test is given by
α/(M + 1 − m). We use q = 0.1 and α = 0.1 in the simulation. Fig. 1 presents
results for 12 widely apart sources. The probability of correct detection P (mˆ = 12)
increases with increasing SNRs. The FDR-controlling procedure has a lower SNR
threshold and a higher probability of detection in the threshold region. In Fig. 2, we
show results for a more difficult scenario: two of the signal sources are closely located
at θ1 = 9
◦ and θ2 = 12
◦ relative to broadside. Obviously, both procedures perform
worse than in Fig. 1. The gap between FDR- and FWE-controlling procedures has
widened in the threshold region. This implies that the FDR-controlling procedure
is more useful in critical situations.
In the second experiment, the observation contains only noise. The number of
snapshots is varied from T = 10 to 30 in a ∆T = 5 step. The maximum number
of signals is set to be M = 4. From Fig. 3 one can observe that both procedures
have probability of correct decision P (mˆ = 0) higher than 0.98 for all T s. Although
the FDR q and FWE α are chosen to be 0.1, the detection procedures provide very
reliable results.
In summary, the FDR-controlling procedure leads to a higher probability of
correct detection than the FWE-control- ling procedure. In particular, for situations
involving closely located signals, the difference between these two procedures become
larger. In the noise only case, the proposed detection scheme has a false alarm rate
less than 0.02 for a choice of FDR as high as 0.1.
4
10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
number of snapshots
pr
ob
ab
ilit
y o
f c
or
re
ct 
de
cis
ion
Comparison of FDR− and FWE−controlling procedures, noise only 
FDR
FWE
Figure 3: Probability of correct decision. Noise only. T = [10 : 5 : 30].
6 Conclusion
This work discusses signal detection using a multiple hypothesis test under an FDR
consideration of Benjamini and Hochberg. Compared to the classical FWE criterion,
the FDR criterion leads to more powerful tests and controls the errors at a reasonable
level. We proved that the conditions required by the Benjamini-Hochberg procedure
are satisfied in the proposed detection procedure. Numerical experiments show that
the FDR-controlling procedure has always a higher probability of detection than the
FWE controlling procedure. More importantly, the reliability of the proposed test
is not affected by the gain in power.
These excellent results have published in IEEE Transaction on Signal processing
and presented at the IEEE Workshop on Statistical Signal Processing, 2005.
Journal paper
1. Pei–Jung Chung, Johann F. Bo¨hme: Recursive EM and SAGE-inspired Al-
gorithms with Application to DOA Estimation, IEEE Transactions on Signal
Processing, Vol 53 (8), August 2005, pp. 2664 - 2677.
Conference contribution
1. Pei-Jung Chung, Johann F. Bo¨hme, Christoph F. Mecklenbra¨uker, Alfred O.
Hero: On Signal Detection Using the Benjamini-Hochberg Procedure, Proc.
IEEE Workshop on Statistical Signal Processing, Bordeaux, France, July 17-
20, 2005.
6
