 2
design moderate-resolution ADCs, but at the 
expense of reduced sampling rate.  A 10-Bit 
1-GS/s subranging ADC will be designed.  
The linear-amplifier-based pipelined A/D 
architecture can be used to design 
high-resolution ADCs.  However, the need for 
linear amplification further reduces the 
sampling rate.  A 14-Bit 200-MS/s Pipelined 
ADC will be designed.  The difficulties 
caused by component mismatches are resolved 
by using digital signal processing.  
Furthermore, the time-interleaved (TI) A/D 
architecture can increase the overall sampling 
rate of an ADC.  The accompanying problems 
of inter-channel gain, offset, and gain 
mismatches will be resolved by using digital 
means in this project.  An 8-channel 6-Bit 
16-GS/s TI ADC will be designed by 
assembling 8 channels of the 6-Bit 2-GS/s 
Flash ADC previously mentioned. 
The current-switching D/A architecture 
will be studied in this project.  In high-speed 
digital-to-analog converter (DAC), the circuit 
design of the current-switching elements are 
critical.  A 6-Bit 4-GS/s DAC and a 6-Bit 
8-GS/s DAC will be designed 。 For 
high-resolution DAC, the design 
considerations of component mismatches 
usually make the circuit complex and slow.  
A 14-Bit 500-MS/s DAC will be design, in 
which the mismatch problem will be resolved 
by using digital signal processing. 
Clock generators with corresponding 
frequencies and phase resolution are required 
for both the ADCs and the DACs.   A clock 
generator will be designed for the 8-channel 
6-Bit 16-GS/s TI ADC.  It has a clock 
frequency of 2 GHz, and has 8 different 
outputs with digitally-adjustable phases.  For 
high-resolution applications, the emphases are 
on jitter measurement and low-jitter design.  
A 200–500 MHz low-jitter clock generator will 
be designed. 
All circuits designed in this project will be 
fabricated using 130nm or 90nm CMOS 
technologies.  Chips will be characterized to 
validate the design techniques developed in 
this project. 
Key Words: Analog-to-Digital 
Conversion, Digital-to-Analog Conversion, 
Mixed-Signal Integrated Circuits, Nano-Scale 
CMOS. 
二、緣由與目的 
隨著製程技術的進步，CMOS 積體電路
已進入奈米時代。奈米級的 MOS 電晶體有
面積小、速度快的優點，但也有耐壓低、增
益小的缺點。它的優點是用來設計高性能的
數位電路。然而隨伴的缺點卻造成類比電路
設計的考驗。主要關鍵是如何利用優點來彌
補缺點並提升系統功能。而本計畫則是要利
用數位電路來彌補並提升類比電路的功能。
而類比電路的架構也必須有所改變才能用於
奈米 CMOS 積體電路中。 
本計畫將研究在奈米CMOS製程下的混
合訊號式積體電路設計技術，將利用數位信
號處理（DSP）的方法來彌補先進製程所造
成的非理想效應，進而完成高效能的混合信
號式積體電路，欲研究的次系統有類比數位
轉換器（Analog-to-Digital Converter, ADC），
數位類比轉換器（Digital-to Analog Converter, 
DAC），及用於 ADC 及 DAC 之時脈產生器
（Clock Generator）。這些高效能的次系統
可用於高速率傳輸的前瞻有線及無線系統
中，如 PAM 光纖系統、xDSL 系統、「超寬
頻」 (Ultra Wide Band, UWB) 無線系統、無
線手機基地台等。 
另外，所發展的晶片都會以「晶片效能
指標」（Chip Performance Index, CPI）來和
功能類似的晶片相比較。而本計畫的目標就
是追求最佳的 CPI。 
三、目前執行成果 
A. A CMOS 15-Bit 125-MS/s ADC 
Our previous research efforts [1] [2] have 
been combined to design a high-performance 
time-interleaved (TI) pipelined ADC [3].  Fig. 
1 shows the ADC block diagram.  It consists 
of a single sample-and-hold amplifier (SHA) 
and two identical pipelined A/D channels.  
The use of a single SHA avoids any sampling 
skew error between the two channels.  The 
offset and gain mismatch between the two A/D 
channels are corrected in the back-end digital 
domain.  The two random choppers, CHP1 
and CHP2, are placed in front of the two A/D 
channels respectively to time interleave the 
SHA's outputs and also enable offset 
+5.5/-5.7 LSB. 
The ADC's output FFT spectra are also 
measured.  The input is a differential 1.4 Vpp 
sinusoidal signal.  From the FFT spectra, both 
spurious-free dynamic range (SFDR) and 
signal-to-distortion plus noise radio (SNDR) 
can be obtained.  Fig. 5 shows the ADC's 
measured SFDR and SNDR versus input 
frequencies at 125 MS/s sampling rate.  The 
calibration can improve the SDNR by more 
than 10 dB and the SFDR by about 30 dB for 
input frequencies up to the Nyquist frequency. 
 
 
Fig 5: Measured SNDR and SFDR vs input frequencies. 
 
B. Pipelined ADC Calibration 
The digital calibration technique we 
developed for pipelined ADC [2] extends the 
output signal range of pipeline stage under 
calibration.  Moreover, this correlation-based 
scheme inevitably requires long calibration 
time.  The above deficiencies can be 
eliminated by our new calibration technique 
[4]. 
 
 
Fig 6: A split-capacitor SC pipeline stage with 
redundant     comparators. 
Fig. 6 shows the modified pipelined stage.  
Three additional comparators are added to 
estimate the amplitude of the stage’s input. 
Based on this information, the calibration 
random sequence can be generated such that 
the injected calibrating signal does not go 
beyond the nominal output range of a pipeline 
stage. 
 
 
Fig 7: Split-channel ADC architecture for background 
calibration. 
Fig. 7 shows the proposed split-channel 
ADC architecture that can be used to reduce 
the calibration time.  The ADC is formed by 
splitting the original single-channel ADC into 
two identical parallel A/D channels.  Both the 
A channel and the B channel quantize the same 
analog input.  Their separate outputs are then 
combined to produce the final digital output. 
 
 
Fig 8: The calibration processor for the split-ADC 
architecture. 
Fig. 8 shows the block diagram of the 
calibration processor of Fig. 7.  The 
calibration time can be greatly reduced by 
comparing the digital output streams from both 
channels and then removing the input-related 
signal at the inputs of calibration data 
extractors and offset estimators.  The offset 
correction (OC) and gain correction (GC) are 
employed to equalize the transfer 
characteristics of the two A/D channels.  
Using the proposed split-ADC architecture, we 
are able to reduce the calibration time to about 
1/1000 of that required for the original 
calibration technique. 
 4
 6
在  Digital Calibration for Pipelined 
ADCs 部分，我們改良了我們先前的校正
（Calibration）技術而使其趨於完善。我們也
以嚴謹的數學方法完整地分析了 Calibration 
理論。除此之外，我們在現有的基礎上又發
展出非線性的校正技術。非線性校正的研究
目前還在萌芽階段。與其他現有的方法相比
較，我認為我們的技術最完整也最具實用價
值。我們會對其中新技術提出專利申請。 
本計畫的其他研究項目都還在進行中，
我們會在適當時機公佈成果。 
本計畫所發表的論文皆可從主持人的網
頁下載：http://www.cc.nctu.edu.tw/~jtwu。 
六、參考文獻 
[1] C-C Hsu and J-T Wu, “A CMOS 33-mW 100-MHz 
80-dB SFDR Sample-and-Hold Amplifier,” IEICE 
Transactions on Electronics, Vol. E86-C, No. 10, pp. 
2122-2128, Oct. 2003. 
[2] H-C Liu, Z-M Lee, and J-T Wu, “A 15-b 40-MS/s 
CMOS Pipelined Analog-to-Digital Converter with 
Digital Background Calibration,” IEEE Journal of 
Solid-State Circuits, Vol. 40, No. 5, pp. 1047-1056, 
May 2005. 
[3] Z-M Lee, C-Y Wang, and J-T Wu, “A CMOS 15-Bit 
125-MS/s Time-Interleaved ADC with Digital 
Background Calibration,” 2006 IEEE Custom 
Integrated Circuits Conference, pp. 209-212, Sept. 
2006. 
[4] J-L Fan, C-Y Wang, and J-T Wu, “A Robust and 
Fast Digital Background Calibration Technique for 
Pipelined ADCs,” to be published in IEEE 
Transactions on Circuits and Systems - I: Regular 
Papers. 
[5] J-L Fan and J-T Wu, “Digital Background 
Calibration of Stage Nonlinearity for Pipelined 
ADC”, submitted to IEEE Transactions on Circuits 
and Systems - II: Express Briefs. 
