行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
蒸氣誘導式相分離程序對中空纖維膜結構型態與分離效能之影響 
The study of formation mechanism and properties of hollow fiber membranes via 
vapor induced phase separation 
 
計畫編號：NSC 95－2221－E－253－012－ 
執行期間： 95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
計畫主持人：蔡惠安教授 南亞技術學院材料與纖維系 
Abstract 
Polysulfone hollow fiber membranes were fabricated by a dry/wet spinning process, with 
N-methyl pyrrolidinone (NMP) and water as solvent and coagulant, respectively. The results 
indicate that air-gap length and ambient humidity have dramatic effect on the membrane 
morphology. Macrovoids in the membranes disappeared, reappeared, and redisappeared with 
increasing air-gap length. Evidence was obtained showing that, because of the high affinity of NMP 
for water, water vapor was drawn to the dope to induce phase separation, resulting in a nascent 
structure in the dope before it was immersed in the coagulation bath. On the other hand, when the 
air gap was long enough to allow phase separation of the entire dope before it reached the 
coagulation bath, macrovoids redisappeared. In addition, we observed that the air-gap length 
required for the disappearance and redisappearance of macrovoids decreased with increasing 
ambient humidity, which can be well reasoned by the decreasing contact time with the humid air 
needed to bring about phase separation of the dope in the air gap. 
 
Keywords: Polysulfone, hollow fiber membrane, vapor induced phase separation, macrovoids, air 
gap 
 
中文摘要 
本研究以 NMP 為溶劑、水為凝聚劑，利用乾溼式紡絲方式製備 PSf 中空纖維膜，探討蒸
氣誘導式相分離程序對中空纖維膜結構型態之影響。研究結果發現氣距長度以及環境溼度會
影響中空纖維膜之結構型態。當氣距長度增加時，巨型孔洞會有抑制、生成、再抑制之現象。
此現象乃是因為 NMP 與水之高親水性，因此在纖維進入凝聚槽之前，於氣距階段水蒸氣會誘
導纖維表面形成相分離。相反的，當氣距長度夠長時，相分離會在整個纖維產生，因此當纖
維進入凝聚槽後，巨型孔洞再次抑制。研究中同時發現，隨著環境溼度之增加，巨型孔洞抑
during membrane forming and proposed a phenomenological model to explain the morphology 
evolution caused by VIPS. Khare et al. [10] have developed recently a mathematical model to 
describe the composition change in the cast film in association with the VIPS process. Another 
important issue about VIPS is the accompanying phase separation mechanism. Using time-resolved 
small angle light scattering and phase contrast optical microscopy, Lee et al. [11] were able to show 
that VIPS actually takes place via spinodal decomposition.  
Although the role of VIPS in the forming of flat-sheet membranes was widely studied, as 
discussed in the preceding paragraph, few articles identified the importance of VIPS in the 
preparation of hollow fiber membranes. A wet spinning process with an air gap is actually a dry/wet 
process since both evaporation of solvent and intake of water vapor can occur in the air gap. 
Therefore, it is reasonable to expect that VIPS occur in the air gap and affect the final morphology 
of hollow fibers, especially when the polymer solvent has low volatility but high water affinity. 
However, the role of VIPS in determining the morphology of hollow fibers has yet been 
investigated. Only some reports [12-15] pointed out that ambient humidity might have influences 
on membrane morphology. Investigation on the interplay between VIPS and membrane morphology 
is still needed, to get insight into the morphology control of hollow fibers.  
Experimental  
Materials 
Polysulfone (PSf) (Udel P-3500) was purchased from the AMOCO Performance Products Inc. 
(Ridgefield, CT, USA). N-methyl pyrrolidinone (NMP) of reagent grade, without further 
purification, was used as the solvent for PSf, and distilled water was used as its coagulant.  
Spinning of PSf hollow fiber membranes 
PSf chips and NMP were mixed in a flask under agitation to form a homogenous polymer 
solution with 26 wt% of PSf, which was then sit still for at least one day. Next, the homogenous 
polymer solution was poured into a dope tank and kept there overnight for eliminating the air 
bubbles formed during the stages of agitation and pouring.  
The degassed homogeneous solution was used to fabricate PSf hollow fiber membranes with 
the dry/wet spinning process. The polymer solution was extruded through a spinneret to a 
coagulation bath of water with an adjustable air gap between the spinneret and the water bath. The 
whole spinning line, from the spinneret to the coagulation bath, was placed in a 
humidity-and-temperature controlled cabinet (Jwo Ruey Technical Co., Ltd., Taiwan,), so that the 
humidity and temperature in the air gap were fixed and could be adjusted during the spinning 
process. The bore liquid (70/30 NMP/water) was delivered using a syringe pump. After 
solidification, the fibers were removed from the coagulation bath and put in distilled water for at 
least three days and then in methanol for two hours to remove the residual solvent, which was 
   
(A) (B) 
Fig 1 Cross-sectional membrane morphology of the PSf hollow fiber prepared with no air 
gap. Magnification:(A) 500, (B) 30k 
A possible reason accounting for the above observation is that the water vapor in the air gap 
was drawn to the dope. If this is correct, with higher relative humidity in the air gap, we should be 
able to obtain similar results, but with the disappearance and reappearance of macrovoids occurring 
at a shorter air gap. Therefore, we adjusted the relative humidity in the air gap to 70% and 90% and 
prepared hollow fiber membranes with different length of air gap. The results are presented below. 
 
(A) (B) (C) (D) 
  
 
(E) (F) (G)  
Fig 2 Cross-sectional membrane morphology of the PSf hollow fiber prepared with an ambient 
relative humidity of 30%. Air gap: (A) 0cm (B) 10cm (C) 20cm (D) 30cm (E) 40cm (F) 
50cm (G) 60cm 
 
Effect of the relative humidity in the air gap on the morphology of hollow fiber membranes  
Shown in Fig. 3 are the morphologies of PSf hollow fiber membranes spun with the air gaps 
from 10 to 60 cm, when the relative humidity in the air gap was kept at 70%. For the case of no air 
gap (0 cm), it should be noted that the humidity in the air gap did not affect membrane morphology 
at all, since the dope had no chance to contact water vapor. Therefore, one can always refer to Fig. 1 
for the membrane morphology in the case of no air gap. As expected, the trend shown in Fig. 4 is 
similar to that in Fig. 2. The macrovoids occurred, disappeared, reappeared, and redisappeared as 
60 um 1 um 
The dependence of membrane morphology on air-gap length was also investigated when the 
relative humidity in the air gap was raised to 90%. The results are presented in Fig. 4. Similarly, 
with increasing air-gap length, the macrovoids occurred, disappeared, reappeared, and 
redisappeared. With a relative humidity of 90%, the air-gap length required for the resuppression of 
macrovoids is shorter compared with the two previous cases: 30 cm versus 40 cm (70%) and 50 cm 
(30%). Moreover, the air-gap length required for the first suppression is also shorter: 5 cm versus 10 
cm. The results show that the higher humidity in the air gap shortens the air-gap length required for 
suppression of macrovoids, for both the first suppression and the resuppression. 
Microstructure of hollow fibers near the outer surface 
To further evaluate the effect of air-gap length and ambient humidity on the morphology of the 
prepared hollow fibers, we examined the microstructure near the outer surface of the fibers. The 
results are presented in Figs. 5-7. The relative humidity in the air gap was 30% for the results shown 
in Fig. 5, 70% in Fig. 6, and 90% in Fig. 8. In all the three cases, similar trends were obtained 
responding to an increase in air-gap length. A dense layer near the outer surface was observed, 
accompanied with macrovoids, when there was no air gap. The structure became bicontinuous when 
the air-gap length increased to a value corresponding to the first suppression of macrovoids. Then, 
the bicontinuous structure turned into the cellular one when macrovoids reappeared. 
 
 
 
(A) (B) (C) (D) 
   
 
(E) (F) (G)  
Fig. 5 Morphology near the outer surface of the hollow fibers prepared with a relative humidity of 
30%. Air gap: (A) 0cm (B) 10cm (C) 20cm (D) 30cm (E) 40cm (F) 50cm (G) 60cm 
 
The occurrence of a dense layer in association with macrovoids has been widely discussed in 
the literature [1]. It is believed by many that the fast exchange of solvent with nonsolvent, 
responsible for the occurrence of macrovoids, also generates a region with high polymer 
concentration near the interface between solvent and nonsolvent, which then develops into the 
Fig. 7 Morphology near the outer surface of the hollow fibers prepared with a relative humidity 
of 90%. Air gap: (A) 2.5 cm (B) 5 cm (C) 7.5 cm (D) 10cm  (E) 20cm (F) 30cm (G) 
40cm (H) 50cm (I) 60cm 
Water intake in the air gap 
According to the above results, the water vapor in the air gap plays an important role in 
determining the final morphology of the prepared fibers. In the air gap, solvent evaporation and 
water intake can both occur and affect the final morphology. However, because of the low volatility 
of the solvent we used, solvent evaporation would not be as important as water intake. One method 
to demonstrate the importance of water intake is to measure the change in the weight of cast film 
[9,16]. Nonetheless, it is very difficult to detect the mass variation of the dope in the air gap. 
Therefore, we measured the mass variation of a flat-sheet cast film (PSf/NMP) during its contact 
with humid air, to obtain qualitative understanding about the mass variation in the air gap. 
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
25
 
 
M
as
s 
va
ria
tio
n 
(w
t%
)
Time (min)
 
Fig. 8 Mass variation of a flat-sheet cast film during its contact with humid air. Polymer 
solution: 26 wt% of PSf in NMP. Relative humidity: (A) 30%, (B) 70%, and (C) 90%. 
 
Fig. 8 depicts the mass variation of the flat-sheet cast film when it was in contact with air with 
different humidity. The results indicate that water intake dominated over solvent evaporation in the 
initial period, hence resulting in an increase in mass. After some time in the humid air, the film 
surface was saturated with water; therefore, the mass began to decrease because solvent evaporation 
now prevailed water intake [16]. In the case of preparation of hollow fibers, because the residence 
time of the dope in the air gap was very short (about 20 seconds with a 60-cm air gap), water intake 
should dominate over solvent evaporation, as in the initial stage shown in Fig. 9. With the initial 
slopes of the curves in Fig. 8, the initial fluxes of mass intake were calculated to be 4.4x10-7 g/cm2s 
A
B 
C
The above mechanism is not complete because it cannot explain why macrovoids reappeared 
with a longer air gap. When phase separation and gelation can occur in a 10-cm air gap, they should 
also occur in a 20-cm air gap, implying that macrovoids should also be suppressed with a 20-cm air 
gap. However, macrovoids reappeared when the air gap was prolonged to 20 cm, as shown in Fig. 
3(B). The idea of transient gel would make the above mechanism more reasonable. Tanaka [18] 
studied the thermally induced phase separation and found that, in a short time period after phase 
separation, the phase-separated solution became a gel because of the elasticity of the polymer-rich 
phase, resulting in a time period in which coarsening was inhibited. However, after this short period, 
coarsening was no longer inhibited because the elasticity is important only in a time period shorter 
than the polymer relaxation time. Therefore, the phase-separated solution was gelled for only a 
short time period, so he called it “transient gel.” The idea of transient gel can well explain why 
macrovoids were suppressed first but reappeared with an increasing air gap. When phase separation 
occurred in the air gap due to water intake, a thin gel layer formed which reduced the exchange rate 
of solvent and nonsolvent in the coagulation bath and thus inhibited the formation of macrovoids. 
However, because the gel was only transient but not permanent, with a longer air gap, macrovoids 
reappeared because the phase-separated region was no longer gelled after enough time was given 
for polymer relaxation.  
The reappeared macrovoids were getting smaller with an increase in air-gap length. The 
observation can be well reasoned by an increase in the amount of the intake water form the air gap. 
After the intake of water form the air gap, a region of phase separation formed from the outer 
surface down to the center of the dope. In this region, although further coarsening underwent in the 
subsequent immersion in the coagulation bath when the polymer-rich phase was not gelled, the 
nascent structure formed in the air gap was not subject to a dramatic change such as developing into 
macrovoids, evidenced by the fact that the reappeared macrovoids were only observed at a certain 
distance beneath the outer surface. The phase separated region grew thicker as the length of air gap 
increased, thus resulted in smaller macrovoids, which occurred further away from the outer surface. 
Therefore, macrovoids totally disappeared when the air gap was long enough to allow phase 
separation to take place, before the dope reached the coagulation bath, in the entire region where the 
morphology would be affected by the coagulation bath. The above mechanism gives a reasonable 
explanation of the resuppression of macrovoids. 
We proposed in above a mechanism to describe the suppression, reappearance, and 
resuppression of macrovoids with an increase in air-gap length: the suppression and reappearance 
were related to the so-called transient gel formed in a short time after phase separation, and the 
resuppression was resulted from the phase separation of the entire dope before it reached the 
coagulation bath. Because an increase in relative humidity indicates that less contact time with the 
 1
出席國際會議成果報告 
蒸氣誘導式相分離程序對中空纖維膜結構型態與分離效能之研究  
Study of the vapor induced phase separation on the morphology and 
separation performance of hollow fiber membrane 
計劃編號：NSC 95-2221-E-253-012 
執行期限：95 年8 月1 日至96 年7 月31 日 
主持人: 蔡惠安 副教授 南亞技術學院 材料與纖維系 
 
出席國際會議名稱：The Third Conference of Aseanian Membrane Society 
(AMS 2006) 
會議日期：8/23/2006~8/25/2006 
會議地點：北京, 中國 
發表論文名稱： 
（1） Dehydration of Isopropanol/Water Mixtures by Pervaporation with 
Chitosan/PAN composite hollow fiber membranes 
（2） Vapor Induced Phase Separation----An Effective Technique to Tailor 
Membrane Morphology 
 
第三屆亞洲薄膜會議（The Third Conference of Aseanian Membrane Society 
(AMS 2006)）於 2006 年 8 月 23 日至 8 月 25 日在中國北京市西郊賓館舉行，國內
薄膜科技界人員是第一次參加此項亞洲薄膜會議。此次會議是由亞洲薄膜協會
（Aseanian Membrane Society）與北京清華大學所共同主辦，主要是藉助此次會
議，讓亞洲薄膜科技界人員匯聚ㄧ堂，交換個人或研究團隊最近之研究心得與研
究成果，以激發從事薄膜科技研究與應用者獲得靈感，促進薄膜工業之發展。 
本次會議議程中包括有四場 plenary lecture、十二篇 Keynote、四十七篇口頭式
論文以及八十四篇壁報式論文發表。在 Keynote 與口頭式論文發表之主題包括有
（1）RO/NF/UF/MF、（2）Fundamentals on Membrane Transport、（3）Membrane 
formation & Modification、（4）Pervaporation & Gas separation、（5）Novel membrane 
