 II
Abstract 
 
Transient current surges resulted from the simultaneous switching of output 
buffers in the high-speed digital circuits can induce significant simultaneously 
switching noise (SSN) on the chip, package, and printed circuit board (PCB). The 
SSN not only causes the signal integrity (SI) problems, such as glitches or timing 
push-out o signal traces, but also increases the electromagnetic interference (EMI) in 
the high-speed digital circuits. With the design trends of digital circuits toward higher 
speed, low voltage level, smaller volume, the impact of SSN has become one of the 
most important issues that determine the performance of electronic systems. 
Adding decoupling capacitors is the typical way to suppress the SSN. However, 
they are not effective at the frequencies higher than several hundred MHz because of 
their inherent lead inductance. Recently, a new idea for eliminating the SSN is 
proposed by designing the electromagnetic bandgap (EBG) structure with high 
impedance surface (HIS) on power and ground plane, it can provide a wide stopband 
for SSNsuppression and is applicable at the frequencies of gigahertz range. 
In this project, a two dimensional transmission-line equivalent circuit model of 
EBG structure is proposed to examine the transmission behavior of the LPC-EBG 
structure. It is more accurate and complete than one dimensional model. We are going 
 IV
Contents 
 
 中文摘要 I 
 Abstract II 
 Contents IV 
1 Introduction 1 
1.1 Research Motivations﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒ 1 
1.2 Research Contributions﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒ 2 
1.3 Chapter Organization﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒ 3 
   
2 Simultaneously Switching Noise(SSN) 5 
2.1 SSN in Power Distribution Network(PDN) ﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒  5 
2.2 System in Package (SiP) Design Trends and Challenges﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒ 6 
2.3 Typical Solutions to SSN Problem﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒ 8 
 2.3.1 Split Power Plane﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒ 8 
 2.3.2 Decoupling Capacitor﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒ 11 
2.4 Periodic Structures for SSN Suppression﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒ 14 
 2.4.1 High-Impedance Surfaces (HIS) ﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒ 14 
 2.4.2 Coplanar electromagnetic bandgap (EBG) structure﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒ 18 
 2.4.3 Photonic Crystal Power/Ground Structure (PCPL) ﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒ 20 
   
3 Two-Dimensional Transmission line Model for Bandgap Estimation 22 
3.1 One-Dimensional Approach﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒﹒ 23 
3.2 2-D Transmission Line Model and Dispersion Diagram Calculation﹒﹒﹒ 29 
 1 
Chapter 1 
 
Introduction 
 
1.1 Research Motivations  
In the highly integrated SiP system, digital and analog integrated circuits (ICs) and 
passive devices are mounted on the same package, which require power/ground planes to 
supply the necessary power and interconnections (such as signal traces, vias, pads and 
wirebonds) for connecting each device. With the systems operate toward higher frequency 
range, the discontinuities between interconnections will cause obvious parasitic inductive and 
capacitive effects that induce large high-frequency noise, commonly known as 
simultaneously switching noise (SSN), ground bounce noise (GBN) or delta-I noise [1-3]. 
The induced noise is captured and propagate in the parallel-plate waveguide associated with 
the power and ground plane. Some portion of the guided energy will leak into free-space as 
they reach the edge of the package and result in radiated emission (EMI)[4], while others 
reflect inside the package and cause the signal integrity (SI) and power integrity (PI) 
problem[5], [6]. The SSN can not only greatly degrade the performance of the digital parts 
but also crash the sensitive analog circuits. Furthermore, with the multiple reflections inside 
the package and fluctuations between power/ground planes, the noise energy can cause the 
 3 
Last but not the least, a novel power/ground planes design with the concept of artificial 
substrate which can significantly improve the bandwidth of the first stopband for the 
previously proposed coplanar EBG structure has been developed. The artificial substrate 
EBG (AS-EBG) structure is designed by periodically embedding the high-DK rods and 
low-DK rods between the coplanar EBG power and ground plane. Compared with the 
conventional coplanar EBG power/ ground planes with homogeneous substrate, the AS-EBG 
power/ground planes can force the fundamental mode to move toward lower frequency and 
the second mode to shift to the higher frequency. By suitable design of the electrical 
parameters of the embedded rods, such as the dimension, pitch, and dielectric constant, over 
60% improvement of the stopband bandwidth can be achieved. 
1.3 Chapter Organization 
This report is organized as follows.  
Chapter 2 introduces the simultaneously switching noise (SSN) and reviews the some 
typical solutions to the SSN, which includes power plane segmentation, decoupling 
capacitors, high-impedance surface, coplanar electromagnetic bandgap (EBG) structure, and 
photonic crystal power layer (PCPL).  
In chapter 3, a two-dimensional equivalent circuit model in corporate with a fast 
algorithm to determine the stopband of periodic structures by calculating its dispersion 
diagram is developed. Based on this method we can evaluate the performance of the EBG 
 5 
 
Chapter 2 
 
Simultaneously Switching Noise (SSN) 
 
2.1 Simultaneously Switching Noise in the Power Distribution Network 
(PDN) 
SSN is regarded as an induced inductive noise voltage resulted from the transient current 
flowing through the parasitic inductance of the power/ground connections while many 
outputs of active drivers switch at the same time[1]. The inherent inductance strongly 
depends on the board technology and current path such as the distribution of bound wires, 
pins, pads, vias, traces, power/ground layer arrangements, and so on. Take the CMOS output 
buffers depicted in Fig. 2.1 as an example, the SSN can be simply expressed as: 
n eq
dI
V NL
dt
                            (1.1) 
where nV  is the magnitude of SSN voltage, N is the number of outputs drivers switching 
simultaneously, eqL  is the equivalent inductance of the power distribution network (PDN), 
and I is the transient current passing through each driver.  
 The SSN generated by the digital circuits will couple through the PDN and cause 
power bus resonance. Moreover, large fringing field can appear at these frequencies and 
result in radiation emission. 
 7 
which may couple to the power/ground planes at its resonance frequencies. The GBN 
propagated through the power/ground planes, interconnections, and vias will influence the 
sensitive analog or RF circuits of SiP, and affect the functionality of the whole system. 
Furthermore, it will also act unwanted antenna effect at these resonance frequencies and 
cause large edge radiated emission and EMI problems. Traditionally, the discrete decoupling 
capacitors are employed to provide a low impedance path for switching current and mitigate 
the GBN, but their unavoidable lead inductance limits the effective frequency range to few 
hundred MHz. Although several strategies are proposed to suppress the GBN; however, it is a 
tradeoff between the cost and performance. For this reason, GBN on the power distribution 
network of the mixed-signal package is one of the most important factors to determine the 
SiP performance. 
 
 
Fig 2.2 System in Package  
 
 
Decoupling Capacitors 
Digital IC die 
Analog IC die 
RF module 
Signal via 
 
Radiated Emission 
 9 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
Fig. 2.3 Noise isolation using moat. (a) Reference board. (b) Completely isolated power moat. 
(c) Bridge-connected isolation slot. 
 11 
seen from Fig. 2.4(b) that the insertion loss is larger for the bridge-connected power plane 
than the reference board at the frequencies below 0.6GHz and between 0.8 and 1.4GHz. 
Noise may spread out at these resonance frequencies and cause serious problem. 
2.3.2 Decoupling Capacitor 
The discrete decoupling capacitors are commonly used to suppress the SSN by serving 
as the temporary current suppliers while the output driver of high speed digital circuits 
switching at the same time. They also provide a current return path for the high frequency 
switching noise on the power bus [10], [11]. Decoupling effectiveness depends on the values 
of capacitance, placement, and the number of capacitors. Fig. 2.5(a) shows a typical 
placement of nine decoupling capacitors on a package or printed circuit board (PCB) 
uniformly. The capacitance of each capacitor is 10nF and its equivalent series inductance 
(ESL) equals to 0.3nH. The simulation result for the impedance at port 1 is shown in Fig. 2.6  
(a). It is observed that at frequencies below 200MHz the |Z11| is smaller than that of the 
reference board. The decoupling capacitors are not effective above 200MHz because the ESL 
dominant its behavior. To investigate the effect of capacitors placement on its decoupling 
effectiveness, only one capacitor is employed and positioned 5mm away from the noise 
source, as shown in Fig.2.5 (b). The simulated frequency response is shown in Fig. 2.6 (b). 
 13 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig 2.6 (a) Z11 for test board with global positioned decoupling capacitors. 
(b) Effect of different distance between noise source and DeCap. 
 15 
structure using one-dimensional equivalent transmission-line model, the starting frequency of 
the fundamental stopband can be written as [16]: 
0
1
2 [ ]
4




start
p v
f
h
C L
 
where h represents the height of the parallel waveguide. We can conclude that the 
bandgap can be extended to lower frequency by increasing Cp or Lv, this can be achieved by: 
(1) Increasing the dielectric constant 2 r . 
(2) Increasing the area of the square patches. 
(3) Reducing the thickness h2. 
(4) Decreasing the cross-section area of the connecting via. 
(5) Increasing the height of the parallel-wave guide. 
According to these conclusions, the stopband can be enhanced by inserting a thin-film 
material with high dielectric constant between power plane and mush-room array to increase 
the equivalent capacitance, as shown in Fig. 2-6 [18]. 
 
 
Fig. 2.8 Thin-Film HIS power/ground layers. 
 17 
The cascaded HIS power plane can provide a wide bandwidth but it takes large area and, 
the different structures have to be arranged properly to make the noise energies to propagate 
through these structures from the noise source to the victim, thus it may lose its 
omni-directional characteristic of noise suppression. This drawback may be solved by using 
the Double-Stacked Electromagnetic Bandgap Structure [19]. As shown in Fig. 2.10, the HIS 
structures are employed on both power and ground plane and oriented in the interlocked 
manner. The propagating noise will see both structures at the same point in the power/ground 
cavity and thus the noise suppression ability can be integrated vertically. 
 
 
Fig. 2.10 Double-Stacked EBG power/ground layers. 
 
A modification is also presented to miniaturize the HIS structure using spiral patches 
[20], [21], as shown in Fig. 2.11. The spiral patches provide additional path for the charges 
move from one patch to another, thus the equivalent inductance can be significantly increased 
and hence the stopband frequency can be reduced. 
 19 
One choice to reduce the center frequency of the stopband is to increase the inductance 
of the connecting bridge between unit cells. This can be realized by using L-bridged EBG 
power plane, as shown in Fig 2.13 [25]. Each unit cell consists of a square metal patch and 
four L-shape narrow bridges. LPC-EBG power/ground layers offers advantages of fabrication 
simplicity and low cost over the HIS structure, but it suffers from the DC voltage drop due to 
its higher resistance provided by the narrow bridges. Another drawback of this approach is 
that as it has potential risk to cause SI problem when it is taken as the reference plane. 
 
 
 
Fig. 2.13 Top view of the 3x3 L-bridged EBG power plane. 
 
 
 21 
 
Fig. 2.15 Gap map for the PCPL 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 2.16 comparisons of measurements and HFSS simulations on |S21| (a) Square lattice (b) 
Triangular lattice. 
 23 
3.1 One-Dimensional Approach 
 One-dimensional (1-D) equivalent circuit model has been used to successfully predict 
the stopband of the EBG power/ground structure [4], [5]. Fig. 3-1 shows the conventional 
EBG power plane with 4 unit cell (2 by 2) and the geometrical parameters is given as (a, l, w, 
p1, p2) = (21mm, 5mm, 1mm, 1mm). The 1-D equivalent circuit model of two connecting unit 
cell can be represented as shown in Fig. 3-2. Each section of the circuit model consists of two 
parts. The first part describes the propagation characteristics between the square metal pad on 
power plane and the continuous ground plane using an equivalent inductance Lp and 
capacitance Cp. The second part describe the connecting characteristics of the two adjacent  
 
 
Fig. 3-2 Equivalent circuit model for coplanar EBG power/ground plane 
 25 
where: 
p pZ j L ,  p pY j C ,   b bY j C , 
                    2
1
//
1


 
 

b
T b
g b g
j L
Z j L
j C L C                 (3.3) 
Consider the periodic boundary conditions (PBC), it is assumed that the input voltage and 
current are related to the output voltage and current by the propagation term de  , where 
j     is the complex propagation constant of the wave traveling along the structure: 
1
d
n nV V e

   
                              1
d
n nI I e

                             (3.4) 
Equation 3.1 can be rewritten as the form of eigenvalue problem with eigenvalue de  : 
                    
0
0
0
d
n
d
n
VA B e
IC D e




     
      
      
              (3.5) 
which must have a zero determinant to provide a non-trivial solution: 
                     2 0d de A D e AD BC                    (3.6) 
The eigenvalue can be solved as: 
 
2 2
1
2 2 2 2
d A D A D A D A De AD BC
                       
       
 (3.7) 
Now consider the propagating mode, j  , equation 3.7 can be rewritten as: 
   
   
2
2
cos sin
cos 1 cos 1
2 2
j de d j d
A D A D
d j d j
  
 
  
            
   
 
 27 
 
Fig. 3-3 Calculated dispersion diagram using 1-D method 
 
Fig. 3-3 shows the calculated dispersion diagram using 1-D method. The predicted 
stopband is about 5.25GHz, ranging from 1.25GHz to 6.5GHz. The corresponding 
transmission behavior for 4-unit cell (2 by 2) LPC-EBG power plane is shown in Fig. 3-4. It 
is observed that, if the receiving port is located at center of the unit cell, the stopband is 
consistence with which predicted by the 1-D method. However, if the ports are located with 
deviation from the center point of unit cell, two modes at 3.1GHz and 3.8GHz show up. 
Hence, the actual stopband is ranging from 1.25GHz to 3.1GHz, and is much smaller than 
predicted by the dispersion diagram using 1-D method. In fact, the peaks at 3.1 and 3.8GHz 
are resulted from the resonance of the unit cell itself. The electric field distribution on a unit  
 29 
d 
w 
w 
_r sub
Lp/2 
Lp/2 
Lp/2 
Lp/2 Cp 0 , 2
xLZ
0 , 2
yLZ
0 ,  2
yLZ
0 , 2
xLZ
by the conventional 1-D method which describes the transmission behavior only on vertical 
or horizontal directions. Furthermore, the 1-D equivalent circuit model may result in 
inaccuracy as the operating wavelength is comparable with the size of the unit cell.  
3.2 2-D Transmission Line Model and Dispersion Diagram Calculation 
The advantages of 1-D model are its simplicity and efficiency for dispersion diagram 
calculation. But some resonance modes may not be predicted by the 1-D method, as 
discussed in the previous section. The two-dimensional (2-D) equivalent circuit model is 
similar to the 1-D method but the higher-order resonance mode can be predicted. First of all, 
   
(a) (b) 
 
(c) 
Fig. 3-6 Equivalent circuit model for the square segmentation. (a) Square segmentation 
(b) Equivalent circuit model. (c) Coupling capacitor between adjacent corner patches 
 31 
                
11 12 13 141 1
21 22 23 242 2
31 32 33 343 3
41 33 43 444 4
Z Z Z ZV I
Z Z Z ZV I
Z Z Z ZV I
Z Z Z ZV I
    
    
    
    
    
    
              (3.11) 
It is assumed that the 2-dimensional structure periodically extended to infinity such that the 
voltage and current in x- and y-direction satisfy the periodic boundary condition: 
2 1
 x xj LV V e  2 1
  x xj LI I e  
(3.12) 
4 3
 y yj LV V e  4 3
  y yj LI I e  
    
/ 2 2 / 2 1

 
y yj L
M MV V e  / 2 2 / 2 1

  
y yj L
M MI I e  
/ 2 4 / 2 3

 
y yj L
M MV V e  / 2 4 / 2 3

  
y yj L
M MI I e  
    
1


y yj L
M MV V e  1

 
y yj L
M MI I e  
where Lx, Ly, x , y  are the period and complex propagation constant of the structure in x- 
and y-direction. From equation 3.11 and 3.12, similar to the 1-D case, we can derive the 
eigenvalue problem of the form 0 A X  for the four-port periodic network: 
1,1 1,2 1,11 1,12
3,1 3,2 3,11 3,12
1,1 1,2 1,11 1,12
2,1 2,2 2,11 2,12
4,1 4,2
1 0 0
0 1 0
0 0 0 1
0 0
0 0



 



   
 

  
  
  
  

  
  
      
 
  
 
y yx x
y yx x
y yx x
y yx x x x
j Lj L
j Lj L
j Lj L
M M M M
j Lj L j L
Z Z e Z Z e
Z Z e Z Z e
Z Z e Z Z e
e Z Z e Z Z e
Z Z e
1
3
1
24,11 4,12
,1 ,2 ,11 ,12
0
0
0
0
0
0
0 0 0






 
    
    
    
    
    
     
    
    
    
    
     
         
 
 
      
  
y yx x
y y
y yx x
M
j Lj L
j L
j L Mj L
M M M M
V
V
V
I
IZ Z e
e
I
Z Z e Z Z e
 
There exist nontrivial solutions if and only if 
 33 
 
Chapter 4 
 
Hybrid Photonic Crystal Power/Ground 
Layer (H-PCPL) 
 
4.1 Continuous Stop Band for Noise Isolation  
In modern high speed digital circuits, there would be some noisy IC components on the 
PCB structure, the noise generated from these ICs would propagate along the PCB, coupled 
to the other devices and result in malfunction in such IC. Split power planes are used for 
these applications for isolating the noisy components or used as noise barrier between two 
sensitive circuits. The disadvantage of etching power plane is the incompleteness of signal 
reference plane. The PCPL structure we just proposed [26] has a continuous power/ground 
plane with good signal integrity performance, but its stopbands, as shown in Fig. 2.16(a) and 
(b), are not continuous below 10GHz. There is a “passband” between the two stopbands 
which ranges from about 5-6GHz. In digital circuits, however, the noise is generated over a 
wide frequency range. So we want to know that if we can get a broadband and continuous 
stopband below 10GHz with varying the parameters of the PCPL. 
 
 35 
5880 with dielectric constant = 2.2. The high-DK disc we used here is in the size of radius = 
2mm and thickness = 0.8mm, but the dielectric constant is slightly different from the previous 
samples and has a value of about 91.6. From the real-frequency gap map, the first bandgap 
appears at r/a = 0.05 which corresponds to a lattice constant of 20mm. The bandgap begins at 
about 1.7GHz with small bandwidth and gradually increases with r/a, i.e. the lattice size 
decreases. The second bandgap appears at r/a = 0.13 where the lattice constant is about 
17mm, the bandwidth increases when the lattice constant decrease. According to the 
real-frequency gap map, the center frequency of the first band slightly decreases with the 
increase of lattice constant, but the variation is not very obvious and is almost kept within 
about 3.5-4GHz for r/a = 0.125~0.3, which is the valuable bandgap region. The behavior is 
the same for the second bandgap, too. So with single size of dielectric discs, we can just 
cover a limited frequency region. For the 2mm dielectric discs, the stopband ranges from 
1.5-5GHz and 5.5-8.5GHz, for all possible lattice constants. It is clearly seen that there is an 
absolute passband ranged from 5-5GHz for all possible lattice constant. In the triangular 
lattice case, the gap shapes and range are also similar as square lattice. For design 
convenience, we only show the square lattice designs in the following sections. 
With the real-frequency gap map, it is very clear that which and how the frequency 
region is coverable. In order to obtain wider stopband, two lattice sizes are needed. The 
designed lattice pitches are 8mm and 16mm and the dielectric disc radius is 2mm. The 
 37 
second stopband below 8GHz as shown in Fig. 4.1. The second band is contributed by the 
other pitch design of a = 8mm. However, this second stop band is not clearly seen in Fig. 4.3, 
especially in measured results. The reason could be only three periods are implemented in the 
test board for each pitch design, and the periodic bandgap structure is not completely formed. 
The photonic crystal effects are not thus obvious. 
From the test board demonstration we can find that there is an absolutely “passband” 
between about 5-5.5GHz, the noise generated in this frequency region can not be suppressed 
with any size of lattice. So we can not reach a continuous wide stop band with single size of 
high-DK discs, although this approach may be cost-effective since only one kind of 
dimension of discs needs to be fabricated.  
 
Fig. 4.3 Measurement and simulation of two-lattice PCPL. 
 
 39 
In the following section, we propose a Hybrid-Photonic Crystal Power/Ground Layer 
(H-PCPL) with two different dimensions of dielectric discs. The stopbands of each type of 
PCPL are jointed together and a continuous wide stop band is reached. 
4.3 Power Integrity Performance of H-PCPL 
Fig. 4.5(a) shows the H-PCPL concept. The two-layer board dimension is 100mm × 
36mm × 0.8mm. Based on the real-frequency gap map, we choose the r/a values as 0.16 and 
0.22 for disc of r = 1.45mm and r = 2mm, respectively. The result lattice size is a = 9mm for 
both type lattices. The designed bandgap is 3.2-5.4GHz and 6.3-8.6GHz for type1 (r = 2mm) 
and is 4-7.5GHz and 8.5-9.6GHz for type2 (r = 1.45mm). Two ports are located at both sides 
of the board, measured with SMA connectors.  
The fabrication of the H-PCPL board is similar to PCPL boards. Holes of different sizes 
are drilled and then the high-DK discs are embedded into the board. The high-DK discs used 
here are also ceramic materials but with a slightly different dielectric constant of about 91.6 
(measured value) which may due to the fabrication tolerance of the manufacturer. As shown 
in Fig. 4.5 (b), type1 lattice (r = 2mm) design has bandgaps at 3.2-5.4GHz and 6.3-8.6GHz 
with a passband between the two gaps, as just described in last section. Type2 lattice (r = 
1.45mm) design has one bandgap at 4-7.5GHz, which compensates the passband between the 
two band gaps of type1 design, suppresses the power noise at about 5.5-6.5GHz, and a 
continuous stopband is reached. A higher order band gap appears at 8.5-9.6GHz, which even 
 41 
 extends the stopband to higher frequency range. 
Fig. 4.6 is the measured and simulated results of the H-PCPL. The boards are measured 
with two-port vector network analyzer (Agilent E8364B). The simulation results are 
calculated with commercial full-wave solver Ansoft HFSS. Results on reference board 
without any photonic crystals are also presented for comparison. A good agreement of 
measurement and simulation is shown in the figure. According to the measurement results, 
the power noise is suppressed with more than 20dB within the frequency range of about 
3~9.6GHz, which agrees with the gap we predicted with gap maps. The insertion loss in 
 
Fig. 4.6 Measured and simulated insertion loss of H-PCPL and reference board. 
 
 43 
 
Fig. 4.7 Split power plane two-layer board. 
 
 
Fig. 4.8 Comparison of H-PCPL and split power plane on noise isolation. 
 45 
seen that the |S
21
| is over -10dB as s = 5mm and decreased significantly as s is increased to 
the space similar to the lattice size. To save the board area we hope to get the two types of 
lattices closer, but it would result in a degrading in the stopband bandwidth. 
4.4 Signal Integrity Performance of H-PCPL 
Fig. 4.10 and Fig. 4.11 show the typical high-speed signal trace routing on four-layer 
PCB with two via transitions between the top and bottom layers. In Fig. 4.10, the H-PCPL 
structure is used for noise isolation, the power and ground planes are still kept continuous and 
the signal has a perfect reference plane. The influence of the H-PCPL on the signal integrity 
 
Fig. 4.10 Signal Transition across the H-PCPL on a four-layer PCB. 
 
 47 
 
Fig. 4.12 Signal transmission on the split power plane with via transition. 
 
Fig. 4.13 Eye diagram of the split power plane. 
 49 
of signal traces are also complete metal plane, the only influence on signal integrity is still the 
power/ground bounce excited by the via transition. With the same condition, the SI 
performances on H-PCPL and split power plane are compared by the simulated eye patterns. 
Fig. 4.13 and Fig. 4.15 are the simulated eye pattern of the split power plane and 
H-PCPL, respectively. The input signal is pseudo random bit sequence (PRBS) of 10Gbs 
with 1V amplitude and 35ps edge rate. Both the widths of the traces are designed to be 50Ω 
with the matched termination. The eye pattern is obtained as follow: first the transmission 
insertion loss (|S
21
|) is simulated with commercial tool Ansoft HFSS, then the extracted 
S-parameter are import to the tool Ansoft Designer which launching a pseudo random bit 
stream (PRBS). The maximum eye open (vertically) and eye width (horizontally) are used to 
evaluate the signal integrity performance. 
Considering Fig. 4.12 and Fig. 4.14, there are still some sharp drops in the transmission 
|S
21
| for the H-PCPL due to the cavity resonant modes propagating between the power and 
ground planes, but the drops are significantly reduced by about 6-8dB compared to the |S
21
| 
for the split power plane case. For the H-PCPL case, the maximum eye open (MEO) and 
maximum eye width (MEW) are 450mV and 78ps, respectively. For the split power plane 
case, the MEO is 220mV and the MEW is 69ps. A good improvement can be seen from the 
comparison, and the H-PCPL shows good signal integrity performance. 
 
 51 
 
 
(a) (b) 
Fig. 4.17 (a) Simulated result of ultra Hi-DK PCPL (b) Board dimension of the Hi-DK3000 
PCPL. 
 
stopbands which is specially shown in Fig. 4.16 (b). The first stopband begins at r/a less than 
0.1 and quickly down to low frequency region with the increase of r/a (or larger dielectric 
discs). We design a new PCPL with these ultra Hi-DK discs in square lattice. The lattice 
constant is 8mm and the size of dielectric disc is 0.8mm, with r/a = 0.1. Designed bandgaps 
are at 1.125~2.625GHz, 2.7~4.1GHz, 4.35~5.775GHz, 5.775~6GHz. The total size of the 
board is slightly smaller than the previous PCPL board, but the stopbands cover a much wider 
range, starting from about 1GHz. The stopbands are very close to each other, only several 
modes could propagate in the board under 8GHz. 
Fig. 4.17 (a) shows the simulated result of the designed PCPL. The positions of the 
stopbands as estimated by gap map are marked with blocks in the figure. The first gap begins 
at about 1GHz, ends at 2.6GHz, followed by the nest gap at 2.7GHz and the widths between 
these gaps are very small (within several MHz). There are many stopbands above 6GHz and  
 53 
3000. Here we use two types of Hi-DK with different radius of 0.8mm and 1mm and the r/a 
is equal to 0.1 and 0.125, respectively. As shown in Fig. 4.18 (c), the lattice constant is 8mm; 
each type lattice has two columns. There are totally four columns (with 32mm) of photonic 
crystal are used for isolation. According to the real frequency gapmap shown in Fig. 4.18 (b), 
the estimated stopbands are marked as shaded region in Fig 4.18 (a). A very wide frequency 
suppression band is reached with this ultra Hi-DK H-PCPL. The stopbands of each type of 
lattice are very close and cover each other to form a continuous stopband. Note that only two 
columns of photonic crystal for each type lattice are needed, because the size and the 
stopbands of the two types are quite similar such that the interference and other propagation 
modes are not obvious in the junction. Compared to the H-PCPL discussed in section 4.3, the 
size is significantly reduced in this Hi-DK 3000 H-PCPL, and the suppression band can be 
lower down to about 1GHz, extended to almost 9GHz, and the number of columns of the 
photonic crystal are also reduced, which can save the board area for noise isolation. The 
material with dielectric constant = 3000 are being researched and could be used to made the 
ultra Hi-DK H-PCPL to get a better noise isolation performance. 
 
 
 
 
 55 
In real circuit demonstration, we use a four-layer PCB board with H-PCPL structure. 
The board substrate is FR4 with dielectric constant = 4.4, thickness = 1.6mm. The periods of 
the two types of photonic crystals are 9mm with radius = 1.45mm and 2mm. The designed 
stopband are at 3.2-7.8 GHz. 
The victim device is a voltage control oscillator (mini-circuits ROS-3360) [27], located 
on the top layer with VCC and GND pins connected to the power and ground planes, 
respectively. The input power is fed by a DC power supply plus another high-frequency 
signal launched by a signal generator as noise source. Bias Tee (mini-circuits ZX85-12G) [27] 
is used here to mix the DC and AC signals together. The input power and the victim VCO is 
placed on the two sides of the PCB, isolated by the hybrid-photonic crystals. The whole set 
up is shown in Fig. 4.20. 
 
Fig. 4.20 Set up of the VCO demonstration circuit 
 57 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 4.21 Measured output spectrum of the VCO (a) Reference board (b) H-PCPL. 
 59 
Chapter 5 
 
Artificial-Substrate EBG Power/Ground 
Structure 
 
Several design techniques to suppress the SSN resulted from the resonance effect 
between power and ground plane is discussed in the previous sections, such as the 
employment of high impedance surface (HIS), Long-Period Coplanar EBG (EBG) structure 
and Photonic Crystal Layer (PCPL). All these approaches have excellent noise suppression 
capability under the conventional PCB or package fabrication process. However, because the 
SSN noise spectrum is wide for high-speed digital circuits, enhancing the bandwidth of the 
stopband is a common challenge for all the different approaches. In this chapter, we propose 
a novel power/ground planes design with the concept of artificial substrate which can 
significantly improve the bandwidth of the first stopband for the previously proposed 
coplanar EBG structure. The design concept and geometrical parameters of the AS-EBG is 
given in the first section of this chapter. In order to evaluate the stopband enhancement of the 
AS-EBG power/ground planes, in the second section, the 2-D transmission-line model of the 
AS-EBG power structure is established and the dispersion diagram is then calculated using 
the technique in chapter 3. Experimental verification of the PI and EMI performance will be 
 61 
  
Fig. 5.1 Proposed AS-EBG Power/Ground Layer. 
  
(a)                             (b) 
Fig. 5.2 Electrical field distribution for the (a) lower and (b) higer resonance modes of the 
fisrt stop band. 
 
Fig 5.2 shows the electric field (Ez) distribution of the fundamental and the second-order 
resonance mode of the AS-EBG unit cell with the dimension given above. It is observed that 
the peak energy is distributed mainly at the center of the unit cell for the first mode but at the 
corner patches for the second mode and the third mode. The idea of the AS-EBG is to 
broaden the first stopband bandwidth by altering the effective dielectric constant for these 
 63 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
   
(c)                                  (d) 
Fig. 5.3 Equivalent circuit model of the AS-EBG power plane. (a) Unit cell of AS-EBG 
power plane and the transmission-line model of (a) part A, (b) part B and (c) part C. 
 65 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 5.4 Equivalent circuit model for dispersion diagram calculation. 
(a) Linear 20-port network with Z-parameters. 
(b) Constructed equivalent circuit model of the AS-EBG unit cell. 
 67 
01
01
01
01
0 0 0
0 0 0
0 0 0
0 0 0








    
    
         
    
           
x x
x x
y y
y y
xx j L
j L xx
j L yy
j L
yy
VV e
e II
e VV
e II
               (5.4) 
in which the βx, βy , Lx, and Ly are the propagation constant and the length (period) of the unit 
cell in x- and y-direction, respectively. Combining the equations 5.3 and 5.4, we can obtain 
the eigen-value problem of the form 
0 A X                                (5.5) 
for the 4N-port network, where X is the 4N×1 column vector consisting of all port voltages 
and currents. The dispersion relations of the periodical structure can then be solved by 
finding the non-trial solution of 5.5 with setting det( A ) = 0. 
Fig. 5.5(a) and 5.5(b) show the calculated dispersion diagram for the conventional 
LPC-EBG power plane and the proposed AS-EBG power planes, while Fig.5.5(c) and 5.5(d) 
show the calculated dispersion diagram for the Hi-DK rods embedded and Air rods 
embedded LPC-EBG power planes, respectively, compared with the HFSS simulation result. 
The design parameters listed in table 4-1 is used in this calculation. The equivalent circuit 
model of a unit cell is constructed with N=5 as shown in Fig. 4-4. The dielectric constant for 
the high-DK and low-DK rods is 91.6 and 1, respectively. The dispersion diagram for 
irreducible Brillion zone along Γ-X-M-Γ is shown in the inset of Fig. 4-5. As shown in Fig. 
5.5, the good agreement between the results by the transmission line model and the HFSS 
 69 
 
(a) 
 
 
(b) 
 
 71 
 
(a) 
 
 
(b) 
 
 73 
5.3 PI Performance  
5.3.1 Frequency domain 
The test boards of the conventional LPC-EBG and the AS-EBG are fabricated in the 
package substrate (FR4) based on the previously mentioned geometrical parameters. The 
board dimension is 45mm square with the substrate thickness 1.6mm. 3×3 unit-cells are 
designed on the test boards. Fig 5.8(a) to 5.8(b) show the simulated and measured |S21| for the 
fabricated LPC-EBG, AS-EBG, Hi-DK rods embedded EBG, and air rods embedded EBG 
power planes, respectively. The ports are located at (7.5mm, 4.7mm) and (37.5mm and 
39.4mm), where the origin is defined at the corner of the test board. The commercial tool 
HFSS is used for numerical simulation. The reasonably good agreement between the 
measurement and simulation is seen in these four cases. The discrepancy between the 
measurement and simulation could be resulted from the fabrication inaccuracies of the test 
board, such as drilling process and the holes alignment. The bandwidth is defined as the 
frequency range in which |S21| < -40dB. It is found that the stopband is between 2.4GHz to 
3.8GHz and 1.8GHz to 4.2GHz for the LPC-EBG and AS-EBG boards, respectively. These 
results are well consistent to the predictions by the calculated dispersion diagram. About 60% 
of stopband bandwidth improvement over the conventional LPC-EBG power plane is 
achieved as we have expected for the AS-EBG power/ground layer. On the other hand, as 
shown in Fig. 5.8, over 60dB of SSN suppression can be obtained within the stopband. 
Fig. 5.9 shows the noise isolation behavior |S21| in simulation for four different cases to 
 75 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
 77 
5.3.1 Time domain 
The noise suppression capability is also verified in time domain. The measurement setup 
is shown in Fig 5.10, where the noise source is launched into power plane through port 1 by 
the signal and pattern generator and the coupled noise is measured by the digital oscilloscope 
at port 2. The input noise is a 1.9GHz and 2.2GHz square waveform with amplitude of 
500mV, respectively. 1.9GHz signal is within the designed AS-EBG stopband but may pass 
through the LPC-EBG power plane with attenuation. Fig 5.11(a) and 5.11(b) shows the 
experimental results with 1.9GHz and 2.2GHz square-wave signal, respectively. It is 
observed that for the 1.9GHz noise input, the measured output voltage for the conventional 
LPC-EBG power plane is about 111.3mVp-p while it is reduced to 21.2mVp-p for the 
AS-EBG power plane. On the other hand, for the 2.2GHz pulse input, the measured output 
voltage is about 20.15mV for the LPC-EBG structure but reduced to 4.01mV for the AS-EBG 
structure. For both 1.9GHz and 2.2GHz input signal, AS-EBG power/ground layers provide 
larger attenuation than the conventional LPC-EBG does. Moreover, the 1.9GHz signal 
experience significant attenuation for the AS-EBG structure because of its stopband 
extension. 
 
Fig 5.10 Measurement setup for verification of noise suppression in time-domain 
 79 
digital system with both considering the chip-level circuits and package-level power 
distribution network (PDN). The PDN can be a AS-EBG power layer, as shown in Fig. 5.12, 
or the reference board of solid power/ground pair. The aggressor (chip B) is modeled by 16 
CMOS inverters and switching at the same time, while the victim (chip A) is modeled by one 
CMOS buffer cell. TSMC 0.18um model is used and the width of NMOS and PMOS are 
assumed to be 6um and 18um, respectively. The periodical pulse train is used as a signal 
source to drive a capacitive load for each CMOS inverter. These two circuit parts share the 
same PDN but connected to the power plane at different location as shown in Fig. 5.12.  
Reference board (case 1) and the AS-EBG power/ground plane (case 2) are investigated 
for comparison. The frequency-dependent responses between these two locations (or ports) 
are modeled by the measured S-parameters. The DC power of 1.8V is connected to the PDN 
through a large inductor (LDC) and DC resistance (RDC). The equivalent inductance Lball and 
resistance Rball between chip and package, including the flip-chip ball and connecting vias, 
are also included at the power and ground terminals of the buffers. It is assumed that Lball 
=50pH and Rball = 0.1 Ω , respectively. The load capacitance CL is 50fF, the equivalent series  
inductance and the resistance representing the interconnections between package and printed 
circuit board are assumed to be 0.2nH and 0.2Ω. One 10nF decoupling capacitor with 
equivalent series inductance (ESL) and resistance (ESR) of 0.3nH and 0.3Ω is applied at the 
power lead of chip B. 
 81 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 83 
driven by “High”, the peak-to-peak perturbation of the on the output signal due to SSN is 
210mV for the reference PDN but is reduced to 57.6mV for the AS-EBG PDN. When chip A 
is driven by “Low”, the coupled swing is about 174mV for the reference PDN and is 46mV 
for the AS-EBG PDN, as shown in Fig. 5.14(a) and (b), respectively. For both cases, over 
70% improvement of the coupled noise on the output signal can be obtained by employing 
the proposed AS-EBG power/ground layers. 
Fig.5.15 shows the signal quality of the output signal of chip A under the effect of SSN 
while it is driven by a pseudo-random bit sequence with 2.2G bit rate. The light and dark 
curves display the eye patterns at chip-A’s output signal for the reference (case 1) and 
AS-EBG PDN (case 2), respectively. The simulated results are summarized in table 4-2. The 
eye-opening for case 2 is 107mV larger than that for case 1 and the maximum eye width is 
almost the same for case 1 and case 2. The output signal is distorted for case 1 and the 
maximum distortion is about 306mV, but this is eliminated to 106mV for case 2. Moreover, 
the jitter is also improved from 16.06ns to 4.04ns. From Fig.5.14 and 5.5, it is verified that 
the AS-EBG can effectively alleviate the influence of SSN on the signal integrity. 
 
 
 
 
 85 
 
Fig. 5.15 Eye diagram affected by the SSN. 
 
5.4 EMI performance 
It was demonstrated that the proposed AS-EBG power/ground layer exhibit a bandwidth 
extension for SSN suppression. The EMI performance is also studied in this section. Fig 5.16 
shows the measurement setup for emission test. GTEM500 is used for electric field collection. 
The swept signal generated from HP 83650P is fed into the test board and R&S FSP spectrum 
 87 
5.5 Summary 
In this chapter a new idea of enhancing the stopband bandwidth of the coplanar EBG 
power/ground planes is proposed based on an artificial substrate concept. The artificial 
substrate EBG (AS-EBG) power delivery network is designed by embedding 
periodicair-holes (or low-DK material) between the coplanar EBG power/ground planes. 
Through the optimum design of the dimension and position of the high-DK rods and air-holes, 
it is found that the frequency of the first mode can be reduced and the second mode can be 
pushed to higher frequency. The two-dimensional equivalent transmission-line model is also 
established for the calculation of dispersion diagram. The predicted bandgap from the 
dispersion diagram is verified by the full-wave simulation. Based on the FR4 substrate, it has 
been shown that over 60% of stopband bandwidth improvement can be achieved. Based on a 
SPICE-based co-simulation of the chip and package, the time-domain response of realistic 
digital system with considering both the chip-level CMOS circuits and the package-level 
PDN is investigated for the AS-EBG power plane design. EMI performance of AS-EBG is 
also studied. 
 
 
 
 
 89 
embedding the high-dielectric constant rods and air rods under the conventional coplanar 
EBG power plane. The mechanism of the bandwidth enhancement is discussed. From the 
experiments and simulation results, it can be observed that over 60% enhancement of 
bandwidth is achieved by properly design the location and radius of these dielectric rods. 
Furthermore, we have studied the transient response by circuit-package co-simulation. It is 
shown both in frequency and time domain result that the proposed AS-EBG power plane can 
not only isolate the SSN noise to maintain the system’s power integrity, but also alleviate the 
influence on signal quality from the noise coupling. 
In this project, we have proposed an efficient approach to analysis the electromagnetic 
behavior of the EBG power/ground plane. And we utilize the method to design novel EBG 
structures with wider stopband. Both of the H-PCPL and AS-EBG power/ground plane are 
demonstrated with excellent power noise suppression capability. Besides power integrity 
improvement, signal integrity enhancement and electromagnetic interference reduction are 
also achieved by the novel power/ground plane we proposed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 91 
[13] T. Kamgaing, and O. M. Ramahi, “A novel power plane with integrated simultaneous 
switching noise mitigation capability using high impedance surface,” IEEE Microwave 
and Wireless Components Letters, vol. 13, pp. 21-23, January 2003. 
[14] D. F. Sievenpiper, “High-impedance electromagnetic surfaces,”Ph.D. dissertation, Dept. 
Elect. Eng., Univ. California at Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, 1999 
[15] Dan Sievenpiper, Lijun Zhang, Romulo F. Jimenez Broas, Nicholas G. Alex´opolous, 
and Eli Yablonovitch, “High-Impedance Electromagnetic Surfaces with a Forbidden 
Frequency Band”, IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory and Tech., Vol.47, No. 11, 
pp.2059-2074, Nov. 1999. 
[16] Shawn D. Rogers, “Electromagnetic-Bandgap Layers for Broad-Band Suppression of 
TEM Modes in Power Planes”, IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory and Tech., Vol.53, No. 8, 
pp.2495-2505, Aug. 2005. 
[17] Shahrooz Shahparnia and Omar M. Ramahi, “Electromagnetic Interference (EMI) 
Reduction From Printed Circuit Boards (PCB) Using Electromagnetic Bandgap 
Structures”, IEEE Trans. Electromag. Compat., Vol.46, No.4, Nov. 2004. 
[18] Junho Lee, Hyungsoo Kim and Joungho Kim, “High Dielectric Constant Thin Film EBG 
Power/Ground Network for Broad-band Suppression of SSN and Radiated Emissions”, 
IEEE Microwave and Wireless Components Letters, vol. 15, No.8, pp. 505-507, Aug. 
2005. 
[19] Jongbae Park, Albert Chee W. Lu, Kai M. Chua, Lai L. Wai, Junho Lee, and Joungho 
Kim, “Double-Stacked EBG Structure for Wideband Suppression of Simultaneous 
Switching Noise in LTCC-Based SiP Applications”, IEEE Microwave and Wireless 
Components Letters, vol. 15, No.8, pp. 505-507, Aug. 2005. 
[20] Chien-Lin Wang, Guang-Hwa Shiue, Wei-Da Guo, and Ruey-Beei Wu, “A Systematic 
Design to Suppress Wideband Ground Bounce Noise in High-Speed Circuits by 
Electromagnetic-Bandgap-Enhanced Split Powers”, IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory and 
Tech., vol. 54, No.12, pp. 4209-4217, Dec. 2006. 
[21] Chien-Lin Wang, Guang-Hwa Shiue, and Ruey-Beei Wu, “EBG-Enhanced Split Power 
Planes for Wideband Noise Suppression”, Proc. IEEE 14th Topical Meeting Elect. 
Perforrnance Electron. Packag., 2005, pp.61-64. 
[22] Tzong-Lin Wu, Senior Member, IEEE, Yen-Hui Lin, Ting-Kuang Wang, Chien-Chung 
Wang, and Sin-Ting Chen, “Electromagnetic Bandgap Power/Ground Planes for 
Wideband Suppression of Ground Bounce Noise and Radiated Emission in High-Speed 
Circuits”, IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory and Tech., vol. 53, No.9, pp. 2935-2942, Sept. 
2005. 
[23] Tzong-Lin Wu, Yen-Hui Lin, and Sin-Ting Chen, “A Novel Power Planes With Low 
Radiation and Broadband Suppression of Ground Bounce Noise Using Photonic Bandgap 
Structures”, IEEE Microwave and Wireless Components Letters, vol. 14, No.7, pp. 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                            
計畫編號 96-2628-E-002-001-MY3 
計畫名稱 創新電磁能隙電源平面之電源完整性及電磁相容分析與設計 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
吳宗霖，台大電機系，教授 
會議時間地點 美國 Austin, Aug 17 - 21 
會議名稱 IEEE EMC Symposium 2009 
發表論文題目 A  GHz Common-mode Filter Using Negative Permittivity Metamateriail on Low Temperature Co-fire Ceramic (LTCC) Substrate 
參加會議經過及心得 
公年 2009 的電磁相容研討會於八月十七至八月二十一日在美國 Austin 舉行。全程計有
一百八十多篇的學術論文發表，及多場專題研討。與會人士中，有來自產業界、學術界及政
策制定的政界，討論相當熱烈。 
    第一天安排為 workshop，有好幾個主題同時進行。如電磁相容設計基礎，擾動式無反射
波實驗室，量測的不準確性。我選擇了電磁相容設計基礎，全天參與研討。其中有許多 EMC
界的資深教授及顧問，如 Prof. C. R. Paul, Prof. T. Van Doren 等，對電磁相容皆有深入淺出的
介紹及探討，頗有收穫。 
    第二天至第四天為論文發表，最精采的 section 為 High-speed differential signals 
and EMI design。其中美國 MS&T 及 Ohio State 大學的研究團隊，以有限元素及時域有限元
素差分法，探討許多多層版 PCB 及封裝結構中，電源供應的電磁相容問題，與我們所進行的
研究主題及方向相當一致。我們論文發表在第二天上午的 session，發表以後獲得很大的迴
響，包括美國 IBM，日本 Hitachi，荷蘭 Philips 之研發人員都提出問題，並於會後表達高度
興趣。 
第五天亦是 workshop，我和 MS&T Prof. Jun Fun 共同主持一個上午的 workshop 主題為 
“Fundamental of Signal Integrity”，共有四個次主題，包含 SI, PI, Jitter, 
Measurement，每個主題四十分鐘，我個人也負責一個次子題。在研討會的最後一天，還有將
近 30 人參加，應該算是成功。 
這次的與會感覺，個人幾年來的努力，已經讓台灣及台大在 EMC 研究領域，有很好的能
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
敝人或 IEEE EMC Society 2009 Technical Achievement Award 
IEEE EMC Distinguished Lecturer, 2008-2009 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 ■申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
本計畫協助敝人實驗室將平面是 EBG 結構發展到很小且禁帶頻寬很寬，已接近一般 PCB 設
計產業能夠實現的階段。 
對未來高整合，高速的通訊產品將有很高的應用價值。 
