 2
A Topology Soundness Verification Mechanism of 
Thinning 
 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-131 
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：馬成珉 明志科技大學 經營管理系 
 
1. Abstract 
 
中文摘要 
 
細化的目的在去除不必要的資訊，僅擷取以細線表示的物體骨架，可應用於簡化原物體的
結構分析。細化演算法必需保持拓樸性（即物體與其骨架之幾何結構不變）及幾何性（即
物體與其骨架之辨識意涵不變）。本研究探討細化演算法的拓樸性需求。本研究所有提升
細化演算法幾何性績效的成果，均需滿足細化演算法符合拓樸性的要求。 
 
關鍵詞：細化，骨架化，細化演算法，保持拓樸性，保持幾何性 
 
Abstract 
 
There are two distinct kinds of points in binary images: background points and object points. 
Many image processing operations, including thinning, are applied to convert object points to 
background points. A thinning algorithm should be proved to preserve topology. This research 
establishes a computer aided verification mechanism that can be used to simplify such a 
verification process. 
 
Keywords. thinning, topology, binary image, simple pixels 
 
 
2. Preliminary 
 
An image is embedded in an integer space in which each point represents a pixel (for the 2D case) 
or a voxel (for the 3D case). A binary image contains two kinds of points: object points or 
1-points (denoted z in all corresponding figures), and background points or 0-points (denoted | 
in all corresponding figures). Thinning concerns the deletion of 1-points (i.e., change to 0-points.) 
The purpose of thinning is to remove unnecessary 1-points so that only thin-line or thin-face 
skeletons of objects are left for further structural analysis [3, 8]. 
 
The topology of the images before and after thinning should be unchanged [3, 8]. This research 
implements a verification mechanism that can be used to simplify such verification processes. 
Note that all notations corresponding to 2D or 3D thinning can be found in [3, 8]. A 1-point p is 
simple if, when a thinning algorithm deletes only p and no other 1-points, such a deletion 
satisfies all topology preservation rules. The simplicity of p can be verified as follows. 
 4
1-point at a time. It is necessary to introduce the concept of simple sets of 1-points so that the 
deletion and preserving conditions of a given thinning algorithm preserves topology. Clearly, the 
empty set is a simple set. 
 
Proposition 2 [4] A set of simple points X is a simple set if D ⊆ X is a simple set after D deleted. 
 
A unit square contains four points where every pair of them are directly or diagonally adjacent. 
A unit cube contains eight points where every pair of them are directly, diagonally or 
diametrically adjacent. A parallel thinning algorithm is topology preserving if it is only allowed 
to delete simple sets from an image [3, 8]. Important and properties of topology preservation are 
as follows. 
 
Theorem 3 [6, 7] A 2D (8, 4) or (4, 8) thinning algorithm is topology preserving if: 
1. only simple points can be deleted; 
2. if two adjacent 1-points are deleted in parallel, the set of the two points is simple; 
3. no 1-component of pairwisely adjacent 1-points can be vanished completely. 
 
Theorem 4 [1, 5] A 3D (26, 6) or (18, 6) thinning algorithm is topology preserving if: 
1. only simple points can be deleted; 
2. if a set D of 1-points contained in a unit square is deleted in parallel, D is simple; 
3. no 1-component of pairwisely adjacent 1-points can be vanished completely. 
4. for the (18, 6) case: if a set D of 1-points is deleted in parallel where D is contained in a unit 
cube but absenting at least two diametrical corners of the cube, D is simple; 
 
 
3. Merging Templates 
 
The concept of “merging” two or more templates (in certain ways) to deleted two or more 
1-points needs the operation Merge defined as follows: 
 
y Merge(0, 0) = 0 where a 0 is a 0-point; 
y Merge(1, 1) = 1 where a 1 is a 1-point; 
y Merge(x, “–”) = Merge(“–”, x) = x 
where x a 0-, 1- or don’t-care points; 
y Merge(0, 1) = Merge(1, 0) = undefined. 
 
For verifying whether a thinning algorithm satisfies Theorems 3.2-3 and 4.2-4, systematical 
template-merging operations are needed. Take horizontally merging 2D templates as example. 
The two central points of each template are putting horizontally next to each other. All other 
points of the two templates are merged by their corresponding positions accordingly. If any pair 
of merging points fail to merge, the merging process of the two templates is fail. Either central 
point is deleted from the merged template. Then verify the other central point by applying 
previously introduced ternary simplicity verification system.  
 
Figure 4.(a1-a4) show examples of horizontally merging binary templates where two simple 
templates are provided in (a1-a2), and the merged template is in (a3). The simplicity of {p, q} 
 6
Algorithm 7 (implementing Th. 4.2) 
Multi-loop for testing every template in T  
 if (any 2~4 templates in T are mergable in a unit square) and  
  (the merged template is non-simple) 
 then record necessary error messages;  
return all error messages; 
 
Theorem 3.3 stated the deletion of a 1-component X of pairwisely adjacent 1-points. We need to 
solve the problems when X contains three or four 1-points. Suppose there are m possible layouts 
of small 1-components in a unit square. Let S be the set of all m component layouts and let Sj be 
the j-th layout of small 1-component. Then Sj can be further separated into a set of small 
templates.  
 
Algorithm 8 (implementing Th. 3.3 and 4.3) 
Loop i for testing every template in T 
Nested loop j for testing every template in S 
 if (Ti meets template Sj, k) then mark Sj, k;  
Loop j for testing every template in S 
 if (all k templates in Sj are marked) 
 then note that Sj can be deleted completely;  
return all possible deleted Sj; 
 
For Theorem 4.4, a number of templates are said to be mergable in a unit cube C if the central 
points of all these templates are contained in C. We introduce the algorithm implementing 
Theorem 4.4 as follows [5]. 
 
Algorithm 9 (implementing Th. 4.4) 
Multi-loop for testing every template in T  
 If (any 2~6 templates in T are mergable in a unit cube but absenting 2 diametrical corners of 
  the unit cube) and (the merged template is non-simple) 
 then record necessary error messages;  
return all error messages; 
 
 
5. Conclusion 
 
A computer aided verification mechanism is efficient for checking whether a thinning algorithm 
preserves topology. Important tools of the mechanism introduced are: to verify the simplicities of 
1-points on ternary environment, to verify the topology soundness for 3D thinning algorithms. 
Possible research directions after this research are to expanding the package to (1) 2D and 3D 
binary images with other kinds of adjacency pairs; (2) thinning on gray-level images, and (3) 
thinning on 4D images. 
 
 
6. References 
 1
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
 
會議時間 2007/07/12 ~ 2007/07/14 
會議地點 Las Vegas, Nevada, U.S.A. 
會議名稱 The 17th ACME International Conference on Pacific Rim Management (ACME 
2007) 
論文題目 Improving Medicare Performance of Elderly Institutions by Automatic Information 
 Collecting and Analyzing Mechanism 
報告場次 Session 3B: Healthcare, 2007/07/13, 1:40 PM ~ 3:10 PM 
報告地點 Studio 3 of the Harrah’s Hotel, Las Vegas 
 
一、會議概要 
 
本研討會於拉斯維加斯舉行，共 250 位學者參與投稿，共接受發表約 106 篇論文，分 27
個 Session 進行論文發表，並舉行 3 場 Keynote Speech。本研討會主要討論太平洋週邊華人
學者在管理及其他相關領域的研究成果，許多國內外學者於本次大會中發表管理領域相關
論文，與其他來自太平洋週邊區域的相關領域的研究者進行專業交流互動，對增進國際學
術合作與交流，提供極大助益。本次會議規劃議程除專題演講及 Panel Discussions 外，並
包含兩場主題 Workshop，針對 Enterprise Architecture 之 Business Execution 等議題進行討
論。今年大會將報告論文分為以下主題，並依據規劃場次進行專題報告： 
 
  Accounting           Business Policy and Strategy 
  Collaborative Commerce      Consumer Behavior 
  Cross-Cultural Management      Customer Relationship Management 
  DSS & Supply Chain Management   e-Commerce 
  Economics           EIS, Modeling, & Web-based Networking 
  e-Learning           ERP & IT Application and Management 
  Finance            Healthcare 
  Hotel and Tourism Management    Human Resource Management 
  Information Security       International Business 
  Knowledge Management      Marketing 
  Mobile Commerce        Operation Management 
  Organizational Behavior Statistics   Technology Management 
 
本次赴會發表之論文探討因應老人社會來臨之老人照護議題，老人照護分為家庭照護、社
區照護及機構照護等，本次論文主要以機構型老人照護為重點，並以老人健康資料之收集
為標的。本研究的原因為老人人口比例及老人照護成本快速增加，如何降低老人照護成本
已成為健保制度存亡的關鍵因素之一。透過收集老人生理資訊以期增加預防效果，使異常
不致惡化，是降低照護成本的必要措施。但居住於照護機構的老人仍為自由人，無法確保
每位老人均願配合資料收集過程。為增加資料收集的普遍性，自動收集老人生理資訊乃成
為必要的實施方式。本論文係經由與長庚養生村、長庚醫院及長庚大學合作，收集老人身
高與速度等資訊。主要透過錄影監視系統，自動擷取行動影像，配合 RFID 技術，並應用
細化、邊緣化、特徵擷取、影像比對等影像處理技術，進行身分判別，並使用臉孔辨識技
 3
Improving Medicare Performance of Elderly Institutions  
by Automatic Information Collecting and Analyzing Mechanism 
 
Cherng-Min Ma  Dept. of Business Management, 
Mingchi University of Technology, Taishan 243, Taiwan 
minma@mail.mit.edu.tw 
Chyan-Goei Chung Dept. of Computer Science and Information Engineering,  
Hsin-Hsiang Chen Chang Gung University, Taiyuan 333, Taiwan 
 
Abstract: Taiwan is currently an aged society since 10% of the total population of Taiwan is aged 65 or 
older. The ratio will increase up to 40% in 2050. It is no doubt that the elderly industry is more and more 
important in Taiwan. There are different locations to take elderly: in home, in communities, or in institutions. 
The paper mainly aims at the institutional eldercare. The health information of elderly should be obtained 
continuously in an eldercare institution. The difficulty for doing this is that the elderly live in an eldercare 
institution are still free people. They may reluctant to take some measurements even they know those 
measurements are for their own good. Useful technologies can be applied to overcome some difficulties. For 
example, RFID technology can be used to identify elderly and monitor their locations, and the visual 
technology can be used to understand the information of height and speed of elderly. Together with other 
technologies, an important portion of health information of elderly can be obtained automatically. This paper 
studies the applications of these technologies and the improvement of the performance of institutional 
eldercare. 
 
 
1. BACKGROUND 
 
According to UN’s definition, a person of age 65 or older is called an “elderly person”, and a country with the 
ratio of elderly population over 10% is called an “elderly society”. Taiwan is facing various social problems where 
the “elderly society” is one of the most serious problems among all other problems [3]. In 1993, the ration of elderly 
population over all population was 7.1%. Such ratio turned to 9.2% in 2003, and will keep increasing to 
approximately 10.7% in 2011, 17.1% in 2021, 29.9% in 2036, and 41.4% in 2051 (see Figure 1.(a)). The yearly 
trend of the elderly population of Taiwan is expected to increase continuously (see Figure 1.(b-c)). The ratio of 
elderly population of Taiwan reached 10% in 2007. Being an elderly society, all possible social problems of Taiwan 
accompanied with such a development should be considered seriously. 
7.1 9.2 10.7
17.1
29.9
41.4
0
10
20
30
40
50
19
93
20
03
20
11
20
21
20
36
20
51
7.1 9.2 10.7
17.1
29.9
41.4
0
10
20
30
40
50
19
93
20
03
20
11
20
21
20
36
20
51
7.1 9.2 10.7
17.1
29.9
41.4
0
10
20
30
40
50
19
93
20
03
20
11
20
21
20
36
20
51
(a) The ratio of elderly population. (b) Present the ratio of elderly by year. (c) Increasing of the ratio of elderly. 
 
Figure 1. The growth of elderly population of Taiwan. 
 
Besides Taiwan’s becoming an elderly society, another major trend related to population structure of Taiwan 
was the decreasing of number of newborns. There were approximately 400,000 newborns in Taiwan from 1950 to 
1980, and only 200,000 newborns in 2005 [3]. Although the number of newborns of Taiwan was gradually stable 
after two decades’ continuous and rapid decreasing, the huge difference of the numbers of newborns of the two 
generations causes potential social problems. For example, currently, 8.3 adults in average should support 1 elderly. 
Such a number is expected to aggravate to 3.6 adults supporting 1 elderly in 2025. This situation will not getting 
better in the near future. These two major trends interactively influence Taiwan’s population structure. Taiwan is 
currently encountering other social revolutions as well: 
 
附件：出席國際學術會議論文 
 5
3. AUTOMATIC INFORMATION COLLECTION 
 
3.1 RFID Technology 
 
RFID (radio-frequency identification) is widely discussed in different areas. One of the major purposes of RFID 
technology is to identify moving objects in distance. An RFID tag can be attached to or incorporated into a product, 
animal, or person for the purpose of identification using radio waves. All RFID tags contain at least two parts: (1) 
an integrated circuit for storing and processing information, modulating and demodulating a radio frequency signal; 
and (2) an antenna for receiving and transmitting corresponding signal. The RFID tag can automatically be read by 
an RFID reader from several meters away. RFID tags come in three general varieties: passive, semi-passive (also 
known as battery-assisted), or active. Passive tags require no internal power source, whereas semi-passive and 
active tags require internal power source, usually a micro battery. An RFID system may contain a number of readers 
where an RFID reader may react differently when an RFID tag is detected: either simply showing the tag number 
(see Figure 3.(a)) or showing the tag number together with the corresponding picture of the object (see Figure 3.(b)). 
An RFID tag can be detected by different RFID readers at the same time as long as the RFID tag is in effective 
distance to all of these RFID readers. 
 
  
(a) Detect one tag on a 1-reader RFID system. (b) Identify one object on a 4-reader RFID system.
 
Figure 3. Operations of RFID systems. 
 
RFID technology was used in this research to trace the locations of elderly people where RFID tags are 
incorporated into plastic ID cards. Each RFID card is equipped with a passive RFID tag (so elderly tenants don’t 
need to worry about recharging batteries.) An RFID reader can sense an RFID tag in about 5 meters. Such ID cards 
are used to open apartment doors, reserve exercise equipments, etc. This is to make sure that elderly tenants will 
bring RFID card anytime and anywhere. Elderly tenants join this research voluntarily, and the research team 
guarantees the security of the information of those volunteer elderly tenants. By using RFID cards, the information 
of locations, tracks and speeds of those volunteer elderly tenants can be collected easily. However, it is impossible 
to realize the heights of volunteer elderly tenants by using RFID cards. 
 
3.2 Monitor 
 
Monitors are used to automatically collect the information of the heights of volunteer elderly tenants where a 
known reference base is incorporated in the viewing area of each and every monitor. For obtaining as much 
information of height as possible, it is necessary to locate a monitor at an appropriate site. Generally, an eldercare 
institution is capable to design and provide healthy meals especially for elderly and the charges of meals are 
included in the monthly rent. In this research, a monitor was set up to focus on a hallway to the dining hall of an 
eldercare institution (see Figure 4.(a)). Since almost all elderly tenants need to have three meals per day, such a 
location is likely to capture the images of nearly all elderly tenants. It is possible that some elderly tenants do not 
show up in dining hall for several days (visiting friends/relatives, staying in hospitals, etc). But since the 
information collection and analysis for maintaining health of elderly tenants is long term work, missing several 
days’ information is less likely causing problems. 
 
There are different approaches for measuring the heights of objects in an image captured by the monitoring 
system. One possible but somewhat difficult approach is to trigonometry theories. An easier approach is to compare 
 7
3.4 Measuring Heights 
 
The height hR of an RFID card holder (who is an elderly tenant of the eldercare institution) can be obtained as an 
exact number directly from the elderly database, and the height hI of an image object can be measured by using the 
reference base illustrated in Figure 4. The person in Figure 5.(c) takes 301 pixels vertically. His height can be 
obtained by comparing with the number of pixels of the doorframe (for example, a 2.5 meter doorframe of 450 
pixels vertically). The height hI of a walking person in an image is actually a range rather than a number, that is hI ∈ 
[hR − m , hR + n]. The values of m and n can be obtained through statistical analysis with enough experiments. The 
height of a person is waving when he or she is walking or moving. In fact, it could be difficult to understand the 
exact height of a walking person. Another difficulty for measuring heights of image objects is that a person may 
wear a cap or a helmet, or a person may be bald. Such conditions are important since the height of an image object 
is obtained by finding the topmost pixel of the object. 
 
3.5 Mapping Objects 
 
When K objects in an image are emerged (i.e., the number I of image objects, and the number R of RFID 
cards/tags identified by the RFID system are both equivalent to K), a one-to-one onto mapping between K objects in 
the image and K RFID cards should be established. The mapping is straightforward if K = 1. Nevertheless, more 
attributes should be considered if K > 1. One possible approach to establish such a mapping is to compare the 
heights of K image objects with the heights of K RFID card holders. If the heights of the K objects and the heights 
of K RFID card holders are distinguishable, the mapping can then be established accordingly. For example, two 
image objects of heights 162 cm and 179 cm respectively, and two RFID card holders of heights 160 cm and 180 
cm are easily to distinguish. When the heights of K objects or RFID card holders are not distinguishable, more 
attributes should be employed to establish such a one-to-one mapping. One possible approach to distinguish those 
non-distinguishable is to use techniques of face recognition. 
 
3.6 Face Recognition 
 
Face recognition is a traditional, difficult yet interesting topic in image processing. Various approaches were 
proposed to contribute to this topic. In this research, the power method was employed [4]. The power method 
separates an image into a number of characteristic vectors where an iterative vector computation is operated until a 
certain result is small enough. The power method is very efficient and easily to implement. The first step of the 
power method is to find the face area where the vector computations are applied only to the pixels in the face area. 
The power method emphasizes the shape and features of faces. In Figure 6, two sets of face recognition cases are 
provided. In Figure 6.(a), two different people are misjudged as the same person; in Figure 6.(b), two pictures of 
different angles of the same person are correctly recognized. 
 
    
(a) Misjudged images. (b) Correctly judged images. 
 
Figure 6. Using a doorframe as a reference base for verifying the height of elderly. 
 
One helpful approach is to find other attributes to enhance the correctness of face recognition. First of all, an 
image in the RGB color space is transformed into the YCbCr Space. Then define the range representing skin in the 
YCbCr space. The skin can then be extracted by removing all pixels not classified as skin pixels [1]. After the face 
is found, further attributes on the face can be extracted accordingly. Generally, eyes are the most important 
attributes on human faces. By finding the location of eyes, the distance between two eyes can be found. Then the 
location nose, mouth, the shape of face can be extracted subsequently. In Figure 7.(a), an original image is provided 
where its skin area are extracted in Figure 7.(b). The skin area is mapped back to the original image to find the face 
area (see Figure 7.(c)). Further attributes are extracted by an edge-finding function in Figure 7.(d). 
