I中文摘要
在網路科技快速發展與高齡人口大幅成長下，當虛擬實境與網際網路結合後，有越來越多
之虛擬情境透過網路瀏覽，也越來越多的高齡人口進行網路瀏覽的相關活動，不可諱言網
路虛擬環境已成為人類多樣性生活經驗的傳達工具，這對高齡人口因行動不便而無法參加
的活動，提供了一個在家即可舒適地利用網際網路欣賞的機會；然而這群人口除了個人感
官因素的退化，往往也因操作技巧不當或不熟練而更易誘發虛擬空間症；虛擬空間症是使
用者因沉浸於虛擬環境中，所產生眼睛疲勞、失去方向感及噁心等症狀。這種情形隨著使
用人數的增加必將與日劇增，在國外已開始注意到此問題的發展，並著手進行相關的研究。
本研究乃從誘發高齡人口虛擬空間症的因素進行分析，透過對於誘發虛擬空間症的瞭解，
以建構適當預警機制。主要研究內容包括：(一)深入瞭解高齡人口空間的認知能力；(二)
建立空間辨識能力測試及虛擬空間症誘發實驗，並獲致誘發虛擬空間症之兩項因子參數閾
限值：瀏覽畫面所產生相對角度與移動速度；(三)結合模糊邏輯控制技術，建構虛擬空間
症預警系統。
關鍵詞：虛擬空間症、虛擬實境，高齡人口，模糊控制
1本論文發表於：Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Universal Access in
Human-Computer Interaction, pp. 666-675, 2007.
Measurement and Prediction of Cybersickness on Older Users Caused by a
Virtual Environment
1 Introduction
1.1 A fastest growing group of virtual environment users: elders
A virtual environment (VE) is a computer generated three dimensional models, where a participant can interact
intuitively in real time with the environment or objects within it, and to some extent have a feeling of actually being
there. The participant’s interaction is through control of the viewpoint, using controls to move or re-orient objects in
the model or through virtual controls (switches, handles, buttons, etc.) on the virtual objects [20]. In the past, because
the limitation of bandwidth and deliver speed of network, it was difficult to browse VE on the Web. Recently the
development of network technology is quickly, there are more and more VEs can be browsed on the Web, such as
video games, digital museums and electronic shops. Therefore, the older web-users can easily immerse in a VE at
home. Although the percentage of older adults using the Web currently is less than the percentage of younger
individuals, surveys indicate this may not be the case for long [9]. Demographically, older users are fastest growing
group of internet users. Critically, individuals just younger than the current group of retirees, dubbed the silver
tsunami, are expected to greatly increase the number of older web users in the near feature [8]. In fact, the web-VR
has become the expressing tool of multiple experience of human life. It provides a comfortable environment where
the older users, even act inconveniently, could browse VE through internet at home. Several researches have shown
that an important and troublesome problem with current virtual environment technology is the tendency for some
users to exhibit symptoms that parallel symptoms of classical motion sickness both during and after the VE
experience [3, 22]. Its main symptoms are eye strain, disorientation, and nausea [14, 28]. Previous researchers have
found that there are 80% to 95% of users will experience some level of disturbance during exposure to VEs, with
between 5% and 30% experiencing symptoms severe enough to discontinue exposure [5, 6, 27, 29]. One of the most
interesting questions about the causes of cybersickness is why some people get sickness in certain situations while
other does not. Reason and Brand reported that age differences play a factor in motion sickness susceptibility [17].
They stated that motion sickness susceptibility was greatest between the ages of 2 to 12 years of age, decreased
rapidly from 12 to 21 years of age, then more slowly until 50. They claimed that around 50 years of age, motion
sickness is almost nonexistent. However, few studies have focused on the effects of age on VE sickness. Recently,
Arns and Cerney found that older users often appeared to suffer more severe cybersickness than younger users in a
driving simulator [1]. Knight and Arns also found that an increased incidence and severity of sickness among older
users and lower incidence and severity of sickness in younger users in a 4-wall projection screen (CAVE) [13].
Therefore, the age plays a factor on cybersickness in VEs, but for what individual reasons elders suffer more severe
cybersickness in VEs. The problem has seldom been discussed in the last decade.
1.2 Effects of navigation processing on cybersickness with TFT-LCD display
Because vection and sickness can be generated by watching moving scenes in VEs, the effects of navigation on the
level of cybersickness becomes one of interesting lines of research. Although the effects of navigation methods have
been studied in many researches [19, 23], we know of fewer studies that have purposely investigated the effects of
navigation processing (e.g. speed, rotating speed, rotating angle etc.) especially for older users on cybersickness. Hu
et al. reported that an increase in vection sensation and sickness symptoms in subjects exposed to a rotating drum
rotating at 60 º/s along the yaw axis [10]. Reid et al. also reported that vection generated during an exposure to an
optokinetic drum rotating along the yaw axis caused symptoms of nausea in over half participants [20]. Muller et al.
found that rotating speeds from 10 º/s to 200 º/s along the pitch axis of an optokinetic projection of random-dots [16],
sickness symptoms occur after 3-8 sec. of exposure. Reinhardt-Rutland described that viewers of a stationary disc
with a rotating circumference at 22.8 º/s could experienced an illusion of rotating motion of the stationary disc in the
opposite direction (roll axis) [21]. We can find that most these studies concern vection-induced sickness were not in
VE. Although, Lo and So found that the presence of scene oscillation in VE, both nausea ratings and SSQ scores
increased at significantly higher rates than with no oscillation [15]. While individual participants exhibited different
susceptibilities to nausea associated with VR simulation containing scene oscillations along different rotational axes,
the overall effects of axis among participants were not significant. However, this study was discussed on the field of
Head-Mounted Display (HMD), not TFT-LCD display. As describing in previous section, some VEs browsed on the
Web like digital museums have established as the tour metaphor extended this to the‘virtual tour’on-line, which can
be browsed by the older user easily. The virtual tour can take the form of an entire museum complex rendered in
three-dimensions, giving the visitor to the museum the impression of being taken on a guided tour of a museum and
its exhibits [24, 33]. In general, the visitors browse the digital museum on the field of TFT-LCD display at offices,
home or somewhere. Whilst the device of TFT-LCD display is used to present the virtual environments, this set-up
33 Results and model design
3.1 Results
The analysis of variance in the scores of SSQ was shown in Table 1. Results Of the ANOVA indicate that the F of
55.48761 for SSQ scores from effect of exposure duration was statistical significantly at p < 0.0001 level, the F of
5.844658 for SSQ scores from effect of navigation rotation speeds was significant at p < 0.05 level, but SSQ scores
from effect of navigation rotating angles was not significant. In order to investigate the results in advance, Figure 2
was drew to show the plots of total sickness severity mean scores of three factors in four levels by the SSQ. We can
find that older participants would increase incidence and severity of sickness with increasing exposure time. The
present result supports the original hypothesis and is consisted with some previous studies [15]. On the other hand,
Figure 2 shows that the total sickness severity mean scores increased as the rotating speeds increased from 15 to
45º/s, but decreased at 60º/s. Why did the scores decrease at 60º/s, not increase? After investigating and inquiring, we
found that older participants can't concentrate attention and will tend to move view toward elsewhere when
navigation rotating speed is too quick. So, the total sickness severity scores decrease. On the other hand, although the
difference of navigation rotating angles was not significant, the SSQ scores remain steady around the total mean
score (21.99125), the effect of navigation rotating angles should not be ignored. Therefore, the three factors,
navigation rotating speed, navigation rotating angle and exposure duration, would be defined as fuzzy sets to develop
a Cybersickness-predictive model.
Table 1. ANOVA for the effects of navigation processing in SSQ scores
Source SS DF MS F-value Pa
Navigation rotating speed 100.238075 3 33.41269 5.844658 0.032588663
Navigation rotating angle 17.543075 3 5.847692 1.022897 0.446290961
Exposure duration 951.633275 3 317.2111 55.48761 9.25E-05
Error 34.30075 6 5.716792
Total 1103.715175 15
ap <0.05 significant level
Fig. 2. Plots of total sickness severity mean scores of three factors in four levels by the SSQ.
3.2 Cybersickness-predictive model
Fuzzy set theory was proposed by Professor L. A. Zadeh in 1965 [31]. A fuzzy set is the best thought of as an
extension of the traditional set theory in which elements either do or do not belong to a given set. Because a clear
boundary exists between set members and non-members, traditional sets are often referred to as crisp sets [4, 11].
However, it would seem more appropriate to distinguish between levels of events rather than to assign every event to
either member sets or non-member sets. For example, if we abruptly define the rotating speed exceeding 30/s is
quick, the symptom of cybersickness would be induced and user should be warned. Why is it that a 30.1/s is
completely “quick,”while a 29.9/s is not “slow” at all? Therefore, the fuzzy sets used to develop a
cybersickness-predictive model should be adapted. The model was designed as illustrated in Fig. 3, and it was
consisted of four components.
Fig. 3. The structure of a cybersickness-predictive model
Fuzzification
of
VE Situation
Rule Base of
Cybersickness
Rating
Defuzzification
of cybersickness-
prediction
Fuzzy
Inference
Engine
Crisp
process–
State
Values
Crisp
Prediction–
Output
Values
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
1 2 3 4
Levels
SS
Q
sc
or
es
Navigation
Rotating
Speed
Navigation
Rotating
Angle
Exposure
T ime
53.2.4 Module of defuzzification of cybersickness prediction
It converts the set of modified prediction output values into a single point-wise value. The degree of fulfillment
of the premise of each rule is calculated by combining the membership functions )(wS , )(xA and )(yD into one
membership function, )(R r .
w, x, y: )(rR = min ( )(wS , )( xA , )( yD ) (2)
The final vigilance performance value r* using the Center-of-Area method (in the literature also referred to as
the Center-of-Gravity method) is given by
(3)
it is a well-known defuzzification method [7].
4 Conclusion
The main findings of this study are: (1) the SSQ scores of incidence and severity of sickness increased significantly
with increasing navigation rotating speed and exposure duration on older participants whilst the device of TFT-LCD
display is used to present the virtual environments. However, the total sickness severity mean scores increased as the
rotating speeds increased from 15 to 45º/s, but decreased at 60º/s. The reason is that older participants can't
concentrate attention and will tend to move view toward elsewhere when navigation rotating speed is too quick. So,
the total sickness severity scores decrease, (2) the difference of SSQ scores from navigation rotating angles was not
significant, (3) the cybersickness-predicting model was designed by fuzzy sets including speed of navigation rotation,
angle of navigation rotation and exposure duration. This model could evaluate the symptom of cybersickness for
older users on TFT-LCD display in VE.
References
1.Arns, L. L., Cerney, M. M.: The Relationship Between Age and Incidence of Cybersickness among Immersive
Environment Users. IEEE Virtual Reality Conference (2005) 267-268.
2.Biocca, F.: Will simulation sickness slow down the diffusion of virtual environment technology. Presence, 1(3)
(1992) 334-343.
3.Bowman, D., Kruijff, E., LaViola, J. J., Poupyrev, I.: An introduction to 3-D user interface design. Teleoperators
and Virtual Environments, 10 (2001) 96-108.
4.Campbell C.S., Massaro D.W.: Perception of visible speech: influence of spatial quantization. Perception, 26 (1997)
627-44.
5.Cobb, S. V., Nichols, S. C., Ramsey, A. D., Wilson, J. R.: Virtual reality induced symptoms and effects (VRISE).
Teleoperators and Virtual Environments, 8 (1999) 169-186.
6.DiZio, P., Lackner, J. R.: Circumbenting side effects of immersive virtual environments. In Smith, M., Salvendy, G.
& Koubek, R. (eds.): Design of computing systems: Social and ergonomic considerations. Elsevier Science
Publishers, Amsterdam (1997) 893-896.
7.Driankov D., Hellendoorn H., Reinfrank M.: An introduction to fuzzy control. Springer, New York (1996).
8.Fox, S.: Wired seniors: A fervent few inspired by family ties. Retrieved October 5, 2006, from
http://www.pewinternet.org/pdfs/PIP_Wired_Seniors_Report.pdf. (2001).
9.Hanson, V. L.: Adapting web pages for older adults. In Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on
Human-Computer Interaction (2005).
10.Hu, S., Davis, M. S., Klose, A.H., Zabinsky, E. M., Meux, S. P., Jacobsen, H. A., Westfall, J. M., Gruber, M. B.:
Effects of spatial frequency of a vertically striped rotating drum on vection-induced motion sickness. Aviat.
Space Environ. Med, 68 (1997) 306-311.
11.Kasko B.: Fuzzy engineering. Prentice-Hall, New York (1997).
12.Kennedy, R. S., Lane, N. E.: Simulator sickness questionnaire: an enhanced method for quantifying simulator
sickness. The International Journal of Aviation Psychology, 3(3) (1993) 203-220.
13.Knight, M. M., Arns, L. L.: The relationship among age and other factors on incidence of cybersickness in
immersive environment users. In Proceedings of the 3rd Symposium on Applied Perception in Graphics and
Visualization APGV '06. ACM Press, Boston, Massachusetts (2006) 162-162.
14.Lathan, R.: Tutorial: a brief introduction to simulation sickness and motion programming. Real Time Graphics, 9
(2001) 3-5.
15.Lo, W. T., So, R.-H. Y.: Cybersickness in the presence of scene rotational movements along different axes.
Applied Ergonomics, 32 (2001) 1-14.
16.Muller, C. H., Wiest, G., Deecke, L.: Vertically moving visual stimuli and vertical vection –a tool against space
,
)(
)(
* 125
125
25
25






i
R
i R
i
ii
r
rr
r


7研究成果自評
1.完成之工作項目
(1)建立國內高齡人口誘發虛擬空間症的行為資料。
(2)高齡人口空間辨識能力評估模式之建構。
(3)誘發網際空間症之 3D 虛擬環境設計。
(4)網際空間症的症狀問卷設計
(5)應用模糊集合，結合空間辨識能力測試及網際空間症誘發實驗，所獲致誘發網際空
間症之兩項因子參數：瀏覽畫面所產生相對角度與移動速度，建構模糊邏輯預警
系統。
(6)降低高齡人口誘發網際空間症之 3D 虛擬實境設計建議。
2.對於學術研究、國家發展及其他應用方面預期之貢獻
2.1 對於學術研究之貢獻
本研究對於學術研究的貢獻如下：
(1) 對於高齡人口因使用網路 3D 虛擬實境而誘發虛擬空間症(Cybersickness)之研究，
目前國內非常缺乏，本研究將建立相關的研究資料。
(2) 以 3D 情境建構新的空間辨識能力之評估模式，這是一項新的研究方法。
(3) 將網際空間症之誘發因子與模糊邏輯結合，發展出具有學術應用價值的預警系統。
(4) 本研究結果可做為高齡人口空間知覺能力與 3D視覺反應能力等相關研究之參考或
引用。
2.2 對國家發展而言
高齡化人口結構已成為未來趨勢，如何照顧安排高齡人口退休後之生活，已成為政府
在社會政策的一重大考量，而居家環境與生活品質改善與提升當然是主軸，目前政府
或藝文團體透過虛擬網路科技的應用，可將藝文活動以另一種情境讓這一群可能不太
方便從事戶外活動的高年齡層有了新的選擇(如：總統府、國家圖書館、高雄愛河、淡
水景色…)，也算是另一種休閒活動，但如果忽略因瀏覽 3D 虛擬而產生網際空間症，
可能又將引發另一社會問題，本研究針對高齡人口進行虛擬空間症的研究，並發展預
防警報機制，降低未來可能引發虛擬空間症案例的增加，可算是政府對高齡人口之另
一項關懷。對國家整體形象必有正面幫助。
2.3 對於產業界之貢獻
9可供推廣之研發成果資料表
□ 可申請專利 □ 可技術移轉 日期：96 年 7月 31 日
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱：高齡人口使用網路 3D 虛擬實境誘發網際空間症與預警
系統之研究
計畫主持人：劉正禮
計畫編號：NSC95－2221－E－238－005－
學門領域：工業工程與管理
技術/創作名稱
發明人/創作人
本研究主要在探討高齡人口在 TFT-LCD 環境，使用網路進行虛擬實
境瀏覽時，可能因導覽速度、角度及時間而誘發虛擬空間症之影響
程度。透過實驗過程，應用虛擬器症問卷，建立高齡人口虛擬空間
症反應效標值，並透過這些因子的實驗數據，建構發展模糊邏輯之
虛擬空間症預警模型，包括之建構。本模型所推導出之評估值，可
作為發展虛擬空間症警報系統之依據。
技術說明
This study discussed and analyzed the effects of navigation rotating speeds, angles
and exposure duration on cybersickness for older users caused by an immersing
virtual environment on TFT-LCD display. Then a Cybersickness-predictive model
with fuzzy sets including navigation rotating speeds, angles and exposure duration
would be designed. The critical values of navigation rotating speeds, angles and
exposure duration inducing cybersickness obtained by an experiment could be
defined as crisp values of fuzzy sets. The output of cybersickness predicting value
could be used to develop the alarm system for eliminating cybersickness or at least
reduce its severity.
可利用之產業
及
可開發之產品
1.電子商店
2.虛擬實境發展產業
技術特點
1.虛擬空間症模型包括之建構2.虛擬空間症評估3D虛擬實境之發
展系統，當操作者之虛擬空間操作環境，達到虛擬空間症之誘發
水準，可適當產生警報訊號，如：聲響、閃燈、畫面停止，以降
低誘發虛擬空間症之目的
推廣及運用的價值
1.本研究針對高齡人口進行虛擬空間症的研究，並發展預防警報機
制，降低未來可能引發網際空間症案例的增加，可算是對高齡人
口之另一項關懷。對國家整體形象必有正面幫助。
2.3D 虛擬產業在可預見未來，必將蓬勃發展，但是如果因虛擬空
間症而影響使用人數，則必定成為其推廣上的一大問題；本研究
附件二
表 Y04
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告
95 年 12 月 21 日
報告人姓名 劉正禮 服務機構
及職稱
萬能科技大學
工業管理系
副教授
時間
會議
地點
12/17/2006 ~ 12/20/2006
泰國曼谷
本會核定
補助文號
NSC 95-2221-E-238-005
會議
名稱
(中文)第七屆亞太工業工程與管理系統研討會
(英文) The 7th Asian Pacific Industrial Engineering & Management Systems Conference
發表
論文
題目
(中文)二次警戒度在非限制作業之研究
(英文)The study of the second vigilance in unlimited tasks
報告內容應包括下列各項：
三、參加會議經過
本人於中華民國十二月十五日出發至泰國曼谷 Intercontinental Hotel，完成報到
登記手續，除參加各日之討論會，並於 19 日上午發表本人論文。本人發表之 session
為 Fuzzy Logic II。在午餐與晚宴中，與多位外籍學者，如韓國、日本…等，進行
意見交流。
四、與會心得
APIEM 國際研討會是工業工程每年於亞太地區舉行之重要國際會議，本次 2006 年會
主題包括之主要分組議題：生產與作業管理、全面品質管理 、半導體製造管理、
科技管理、製造自動化、系統模擬、系統工程與管理、供應鏈管理、電子商務、作
業研究、統計應用、人因工程…等，這些議題均是工業工程在 e化世代的重點，對
於未來研究及教學方向確有實質助益。本人所發表之分組議程，是為 Fuzzy Logic
II，本人報告的主題為二次警戒度在長時間控作業環境的評估與分析，與會學者對
於個人的研究環境與研究心得，均提供了充分意見與經驗交流，因此本人在此論文
發表中，與會者均給予正面之肯定。本人於會議中，深切體認歐、美、日等先進國
家，不僅在科技產業上有卓越的發展，而在發展科技的環境中，亦未忽略人的重要
性，並更深切體認人對於系統執行成敗的影響性。這在國內的學術環境、有關人因
工程相關之領域，吾人深感其缺乏性。就個人而言，實則收穫良多，不僅藉此機會，
聆聽其他國家專家學者，於各個層面的研究領域與研究成果，因此可概括瞭解在此
領域未來的研究走向，也藉由此次機會，而認識不少國外友人。
五、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略)
無
六、建議
無
七、攜回資料名稱及內容
1. Proceedings of abstracts
2. Proceedings of papers (CD ROM)
八、其他
附
件
三
