  
 
 
 
2 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
   ˇ  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿 ˇ撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ˇ無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ˇ無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
 
 
附件二 
  
An Investigation of Biaxial Vibration-Assisted  
                Scribing for Single Crystal Silicon 
 
ICOMM 
2011 
No.62 
H. N. Chiang
 1
, P. W. Ko
 2
, and J. J. Wang
 3
 
1
 H. N. Chiang ; Mechanical Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan, R.O.C. e-mail: 
n1893102@mail.ncku.edu.tw 
2
 P. W. Ko ; Mechanical Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan, R.O.C. e-mail: 
n16981703@mail.ncku.edu.tw 
3 J. J. Wang ; Mechanical Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan, R.O.C. e-mail: 
jjwang@mail.ncku.edu.tw 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Scribing process is widely used in semiconductor and opto-
electronics industry to separate the brittle materials. In 
scribing brittle material, the cutting groove always accom-
pany with unavoidable crack which damages the original 
material or the pattern already existed on it. The main scribing 
mechanism can be divided into two categories, brittle fracture 
and ductile cutting. The scribing depth of the border between 
two areas is defined as the critical depth of cut (CDC), or it 
can be said that CDC is the transition cut depth between 
ductile cutting and brittle fracture. If cut depth is deeper than 
CDC, it becomes brittle regime; otherwise, it becomes ductile 
regime. Bifano [1] brought up CDC of materials, and he in-
dicated that CDC is depends on material properties and tool 
geometry. Venkatachalam [2] used single crystal diamond to 
turn brittle materials and he used undeformed chip thickness 
to estimate CDC then he discovered that larger tool rake angle 
brings deeper CDC. Liao [3] et al scribed single crystal sili-
con by single crystal diamond tool, and he determined the 
CDC by scribing specific energy. They also observe the duc-
tile cutting area has smoother surface than brittle fracture one, 
and there is no crack in ductile regime machining. Although 
the above research works had been developed the experi-
mental methods to clarify ductile regime or brittle fracture for 
brittle materials machining, there is no results showed the 
way to increase CDC. 
In general, reducing mechanical vibration is always the goal 
in traditional machining process because the vibration de-
creases not only the processing quality but diminish the tool 
life. However, active vibration-assisted machining has be-
coming a new popular machining method in precision man-
ufacturing recent years. Shamoto [4] found that continuous 
chip changes into discontinuous chip because tool is rapidly 
cutting and separating from the workpiece by elliptical vi-
bration cutting. The vibration thinner the chip thickness and 
reduces the cutting force. Furthermore, at the instant tool 
separating from the workpiece, it is easier for coolant to get 
into the cutting surface to cool and lubricate the tool, and then 
decrease the tool wear and heat transformation. Babitsky [5] 
used vibration-assisted turning aeronautical material, Nick-
el-Chromium Steel, with 15 μm vibration amplitude and 20 
kHz frequency. In his experiments, he discovered that the 
finishing surface ripple height was 50% lower than traditional 
turning and reduced the surface roughness. Vibration-assisted 
cutting has good performance not only on metal materials, but 
in brittle materials. Nath and Rahman [6] used vibra-
tion-assisted turning Tungsten-Carbide with diamond tool 
and found when the cut mechanism is in ductile regime, fin-
ished surface roughness Ra is 0.036 μm in vibration-assisted 
turning, which is smaller than Ra 0.056 μm in. They also 
found that the force components is smaller in vibra-
tion-assisted turning than traditional one. 
In this paper, a tool motion control system with two orthog-
onal piezoelectric actuators was developed to investigate the 
capability of the vibration-assisted scribing process. The 
scribing performance and CDC of single crystal diamond 
were concerned with different feed rates and vibration am-
plitude in vibration-assisted scribing process. Then surface 
roughness Ra and Rmax in both ductile and brittle regime by 
vibration-assisted and traditional scribing were observed and 
compared. 
2.  VIBRATION-ASSISTED SCRIBING 
2.1 MECHANISM OF VIBRATION-ASSISTED SCRIBING 
In traditional scribing process, tool and workpiece are held 
and given a relative cutting velocity with a constant cut depth 
to perform a constant material volume removal rate. Tool and 
workpiece remain contact in traditional scribing process. If 
periodic vibration along and perpendicular the scribing di-
rection is added on the scribing tool, a vibration-assisted 
scribing mechanism can be created as shown in Fig. 1. As-
sume the scribing direction vibration is a sinusoidal function, 
the scribing direction velocity (va) will be expressed as: 
 2 cos(2 )av fA f     (1) 
Where A is amplitude of vibration, f is vibration frequency, 
and t represents time. The relative motion between vibration 
tool and wokpiece is shown in Fig. 2. When focusing the 
scribing direction, if maximum vibration velocity is smaller 
than the workpiece velocity (vw), maxw av v , tool remains 
contact with workpiece in the scribing process, just as the 
traditional scribing process. On the other hand, if in the con-
dition of maxw av v , tool separates from workpiece period-
ically. The discontinuous cutting changes the chip formation  
 
  
150o60o
Top view
Side view
30μm
 
Fig. 5 Diamond tool geometry 
Fz
Fx
Fy
 
Fig. 6 Illustration of a scribing process 
Table 2: The cutting conditions 
Tool vibration  Workpiece 
Frequency 
(Hz) 
Amplitude of 
scribing direc-
tion (μm) 
Amplitude of 
cut depth di-
rection (μm) 
 Feed rate (μm/s) 
20 30 5  
10, 25, 40, 100, 
500, 1000 
 
Single crystal diamond tool is used in vibration-assisted 
scribing experiment. The tool is a pyramid shape with a plan 
tip. Cutting tool geometry and specification in detail are 
shown in Fig. 5. Three of pyramid face can be choose to 
achieve the vibration-assisted scribing. Fig. 6 shows an il-
lustration of relation motion of tool and workpiece in scribing 
process. Fig. 7 is the machine tool with 2-axes vibration tool 
system which is designed ourselves. The mechanism of the 
machine tool from top is the coarse control mechanism, vi-
bration-assisted tool system, diamond tool, 3-axes micro 
dynamometer, fine control system, and 2-axes 
sub-micrometer working table. Diamond tool is held on the 
tool vibration system, and the workpiece is clamped on the 
dynamometer. The sub-micrometer working table controls 
the displacement of horizontal plan. The resolution of the 
working table is 0.05 μm. The measure range of dynamome-
ter is 0 - 44 N with 0.5 mN resolution.  
To investigate the CDC on the silicon, the inclined scribing 
was performed in the vibration-assisted scribing process (see 
Fig. 8). Silicon was scribed from deep cutting depth to shal-
low cutting depth. Experiment parameters of vibra-
tion-assisted scribing are listed on Table 2. The surface 
roughness and CDC of scribed silicon was observed by 3D 
confocal microscope. The 3D confocal microscope has a 
resolution 40 nm of 20X lens and 20 nm of 50X lens. 
Moreover, the detailed characteristics of scribing groove on 
the region of ductile cutting and brittle fracture were inves-
tigated by SEM. 
4.  RESULT AND ANALYSIS 
4. 1 GROOVE QUALITY 
Fig. 9 and Fig. 10 show the cutting groove geometry and 
depth of vibration-assisted scribing and traditional scribing 
respectively. Cutting direction is from the figure right to the 
left. From Fig. 9 (a) and Fig. 10 (a), it is clear can be seen that 
there are many brittle fractures at the beginning and the 
fracture area is decreasing as the cutting depth decrease. The 
brittle fracture cracks cause damage to the groove bottom 
feature, and further become chipping of the side of scribing 
groove. Fig. 9 (b) and Fig. 10 (b) are depth information of the 
arrow line in Fig. 9 (a) and Fig. 10 (a). From Fig. 9 (b), as the 
cutting depth smaller than 0.8 μm, there is no brittle fracture. 
The depth is defined as CDC of silicon in the vibra-
tion-assisted scribing process. The information of the line in 
Fig. 9 (b) shows a smooth and straight line when fully ductile 
scribing (cutting depth < 0.8 μm). On the contrary, the line is 
rough and irregular when cutting mechanism is belong to 
brittle fracture. From the traditional scribing results of Fig. 
10, there exists a wide range brittle fracture area. The esti-
mated CDC in traditional scribing is about 100 - 200 nm base 
on the same measurement method. This value is agreed with 
the results of previous research [3].  
As described in section 2.1, if the scribing is discontinuous 
and periodic, there should be scribing mark resulted from the 
tool on the final groove bottom. In the condition of vibra-
tion-assisted scribing with 100 μm/s feed rate, the scribing 
mark can be seen in Fig. 11 on the ductile cutting region of the 
groove bottom under by SEM. The distance between the 
Coarse control 
mechanism
Vibration-assisted 
tool system
Diamond tool
3-axes micro 
dynamometer
Fine control mechanism
2-axes sub micrometer 
working table
 
Fig. 7 Biaxial vibration-assisted machine tool 
Tool Scribing 
direction
Silicon
 
Fig. 8 Illustration of scribing an inclined silicon 
  
Table 3:  The relation between CDC and maximum chip thickness 
in ductile regime 
Feed per revolution 
(μm) 
CDC (μm) 
Maximum chip 
thickness in ductile 
regime (μm) 
0.5 2 0.4 
1.25 1.1 0.8 
2 0.8 1.1 
5 0.7 2.6 
 
     Fig. 14 Groove quality of different feed rates 
and traditional scribing process are shown in Fig. 16. As we 
can see from Fig. 16, value of Rmax is about 10 – 14 μm in 
tradition scribing process and changes with the same trend of 
feed rate; in vibration-assisted scribing process, Rmax is 4 – 
10 μm in different feed rate. The crack depth is restrained 
apparently by the vibration-assisted scribing process, espe-
cially in the low feed per revolution condition. This is because 
the cutting mechanism of vibration-assisted scribing is simi-
lar to the traditional one as feed per revolution is larger than 
the vibration amplitude of scribing direction.  
4.3 VIBRATION-ASSISTED SCRIBING FORCE   
The force was recorded during the cutting process in order to 
find the force on the position of the CDC under different feed 
speed and different perpendicular scribing vibrtion ampli 
tude.The force was divided in to two part, the tangential force 
and the thrust force as Fig. 17. “Fig. 18(a),” shows the tan-
gential force and Fig. 18(b). shows the thrust force. For all the 
parameter, it is observed that the tangential force is higher 
than thrust force. It may be due to the portion of vibration 
amplitude along scribing direction is larger than cut depth 
direction. Compared to Fig.13, both of them have the same 
tendency respect to the CDC. 
As described in section 2.3, the rake angle  is a function 
to the tool motion relative to workpiece. According to eq. (6) .,  
Table. 4 show the prediction of the rake angle respect to the 
transition of brittle-ductile regime under different feed speed 
and different perpendicular scribing vibration amplitude. As 
we know, the specific cutting energy depends on the rake 
angle and under all parameter we found that when CDC is 
deeper, the rake angle we predicted gets larger. To compared 
with Liao [3] et al, we can gets the same results. To summary 
the above results, the rake angle is an important factor to CDC 
in vibration-assisted scribing process. 
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
1.4
0 500 1000 1500 2000
R
a
(μ
m
)
feed rate (μm/s)
vibration- assisted 
scribing in brittle 
regim
ductile regime
traditional scribing 
in brittle regim
 Fig. 15 Surface roughness Ra measured results 
0
5
10
15
0 500 1000 1500 2000
R
m
a
x
(
μ
m
)
feed rate (μm/s )
traditional 
scribing
vibration
-assisted 
scribing
 
Fig. 16 Surface roughness Rmax measured results 
Fy
Tool
Rake angle  
Tangential 
force
Thrust force
Fz  
Fig.17 Geometry of Tangential force and thrust force in Vibra-
tion-assisted scribing pro-
cess
 會議報告 
2009 ASME International Mechanical Engineering Congress & 
Exposition  
 
王俊志教授 
國立成功大學機械工程學系 
中華民國九十九年九月 
NSC 98-2221-E-006 -034  
 
摘要 
 
此次成功大學研究團隊發表論文” The Analysis of 
Geometric Dimension and Tolerance of Workpiece in 
Milling Process”於 The 3rd International Forum on 
Systems and Mechatronics (IFSM 2010)，希望藉由此國
際研討會公開發表計畫執行相關成果，並吸收其他領域
專家與參與人員的經驗與意見，提升計畫內容的學術性
與應用性。 
 
 
 
 目  錄 
 
                              頁次 
摘要………………………………….01 
目錄………………………………….02 
一、目的…………………………….03 
二、過程…………………………….04 
三、心得與建議…………………….10 
附錄 
附件一、費用一覽表及匯率表 
附件二、旅行業代收轉付收據及電子機票 
附件三、登機證 
附件四、會議註冊收據 
附件五、投稿文章 
 
 二、 過程 
9月 6日抵達會議地點：Riverview Hotel，會議時間為 9/6 – 9/9 ，
詳細會議時程如附件一所示。 
本次國際會議主題分為七個領域： 
Integration of Mechatronic Sensors/Devices/Systems 
* Transportation vehicles   
* Systems analysis  
* Magnetic sensors 
* Biosensors 
* Underwater measurements(ROV, AUV, acoustic array measurement) 
Intelligent Robots 
* Humanoid Robots                
* Human-Robot Interaction 
* Mobile Robots and Manipulators    
* Visual Servo or Tracking 
* Planning and Navigation       
Mechatronics in Manufacturing 
* Mechanical manufacturing         
* Production automation 
* Electronics manufacturing         
* Robotics and machine vision 
* Opto-electronic manufacturing      
* Precision positioning and measurement 
Neuroengineering Systems 
*Neurosensors     
*Neuro-imaging system    
*Neuro-stimulation system  
Energy Systems 
* Renewable energy       
* Energy storage and mechatronics 
Mechatronics and System Design 
* Mechatronics design        
* Sustainable design for mechatronics 
* Systems design            
* Engineering design informatics 
Modeling and Computational Systems for Mechatronics 
 
 系統相關的報告，吸收類似專長領域相關研究人員新穎之研究成果與
方法，更從老師與先進的演說中學習表達與溝通的技巧。 
此次機會到國外參與會議，除了在專業領域上獲得相當多的研究資
訊，能夠有機會親自體驗新加坡也讓本人有相當的收穫。 
9月 9日會議主辦單位邀請所有與會人員參觀新加坡大學工學院(圖
三)的實驗室，並介紹其研究相關主題與設備。參訪的內容可分為二大
部分：1.研究成果分享與交流， 2.實驗室參觀。 
 
圖一 新加坡大學工學院 
1. 研究成果分享與交流 
為了讓參與人員能迅速的了解新加坡大學的研究課題，主辦單
位先針對各單位的研究主題做一簡單介紹與說明，並分享討論研究
的成果。在精密加工領域，新加坡大學擁有精密之加工機(Toshiba 
  
 
 
圖三 超精密加工-鑽石車削  
圖四 硬脆材料的延性加工 
 三、 心得與建議 
此次出國參與國際會議，在各項議題討論中學習到許多，在自己
關心的議題上也因為其他人的討論與意見，讓自己有了更多的想法與
改進的看法，更可在短時間內接收其他研究領域最新的資訊。實驗室
參訪更深入了解各方人士的背景及研究領域，使人印象深刻。當然，
除了看到更多不同的領域的人呈現新的技術外，對當地人文的了解和
與會人員的交流，也是成長過程中很重要的收獲，對我們現有的研究
和技術，帶來不少的深思及學習。 綜合而言，此次經歷極為珍
貴，我個人參與也感到獲益良多。 
  基於人類對生活水準的無止境需求，促成了科技進步，因而各式
產品種類功能持續增加並競求突破。為滿足此些需求，創新製程與設
計研發確實扮演了不可或缺的重要角色。有別於傳統的大型加工機，
微型加工機的設計、控制與誤差補償、奈微加工製程分析與力學基礎
與硬脆材料加工機製之議題將是未來研究的重要課題，有效的掌握分
析誤差與精確的控制補償將有助於提升細微加工品質與效率，對產品
與技術競爭力之影響將非常之大。 
  本實驗室將持續綜合力學、材料與系統等基礎學理，進行理論與
技術之研究，除求精準誤差量測與分析外，並希望誤差分析技術得由
目前仍以經驗為主之know-how 層次漸次轉變到以現象解析為基礎之
 附錄 
附件一、匯率表 
匯率計算為出國日期 9/6-9/10 的均價 
 
 
 Parallelism, roundness and profile of geometric tolerance, are discussed by 
combining the dimension and the dimensional spread of the machined parts. 
Experimental results show that the final part dimension and geometric 
tolerance in milling processes can be accurately predicted given the 
dynamic cutting force, tool runout, stiffness of tool and workpiece and the 
machine spatial error. 
 
Keyword: part error model, milling process, geometric tolerance, milling 
force, dimension error. 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/04/12
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 振動琢切硬脆材料立體結構之研究
計畫主持人: 王俊志
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-006-034- 學門領域: 加工與製造
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
