計畫成果自評：
本次計畫研究成果與原計畫相符程度達90%，並達成初期目標，而且研究成果論文已發表
於國際知名期刊，獲得國際學者肯定，極具學術與實際應用之價值。
研究報告內容：
此次專題計畫之研究成果已撰寫成論文並已發表在國際期刊，論文如下所列：
Though polarization multiplexing offers another de-
gree of freedom for holographic data storage, changing
the polarization state of recording beams themselves
does not support sufficient multiplexing numbers for
holographic storage. To perform holographic memory
with high capacity, other multiplexing methods should
be required. In this paper, we demonstrate a hybrid-
multiplexed holographic memory using polarization
multiplexing accompanied with angle multiplexing in
a LiNbO3 crystal. The purpose of using polarization
multiplexing in this hybrid-multiplexed holographic
memory is not only increasing the storage capacity
but also offering the mechanism of simultaneous read-
out for two individual orthogonally polarized images.
We presented 20 hybrid-multiplexed holograms in a
single LiNbO3 crystal with ten angular positions for
angular multiplexing. In each angular position of the
holographic memory, two images with orthogonal po-
larization are multiplexed in the same spatial loca-
tion inside the LiNbO3 via polarization multiplexing.
These two orthogonally polarized images can be re-
constructed simultaneously with a linear polariza-
tion reading beam, but they can be separated with a
polarization beam splitter, and accordingly each can
be viewed independently. The exposure schedule for
storage of the hybrid-multiplexed holograms is de-
rived.
2. Recording Geometry
The experimental setup of a reflection-type hybrid-
multiplexed memory with two individual output chan-
nels for orthogonal polarization simultaneous readout
is shown in Fig. 1(a). We used a He-Cd laser with a
wavelength of 442 nm as the light source (Kimmon,
Tokyo, Japan, IK4121R-G). A Fe:LiNbO3 crystal with
dimensions of 10 mm  10 mm  2 mm was used as
the recording medium. As shown in Fig. 1(a), the laser
beam is expanded, collimated, and then split into two
equal intensity beams by using a polarized beam split-
ter. The intensity of each recording plane wave is
5.2 mWcm2. The half-wave plates, HP2 and HP3, are
used to modulate the polarization states of the record-
ing beams. The signal beam is normal incident on the
Fig. 1. (a) Experimental setup for recording a hybrid-multiplexed memory with angle and polarization multiplexing. M1–M4, mirrors;
SF, spatial filter; L1 and L2, lenses; PBS1 and PBS2, polarizing beam splitters; HP1–HP3, half-wave plates. (b) Recording geometry of
angle-multiplexed TM holograms. (c) Recording geometry of angle-multiplexed TE holograms.
3234 APPLIED OPTICS  Vol. 46, No. 16  1 June 2007
For the first N holograms, the diffraction efficiency of
the N can be expressed as
Nsat
TM1 exptNwTM
2
exp2iN2N ti1
e
TMTE , (8)
where w
TM is the writing time constant for writing
TM holograms, and sat
TM is the saturation diffraction
efficiency of a TM hologram. e
TMTE is the erasing
time constant for erasing TM holograms using TE
waves. And the exposure time for tN could be ob-
tained by
tNw
TM ln
1
1  N
sat
TM exp2iN2N ti1eTMTE
. (9)
The diffraction efficiency of the 1  N1 can be
expressed as
isat
TM1 exp tiwTM
2
exp2 nN12N tn
e
TMTE 
 exp2i1N ti1
e
TMTM  for i 1, 2, . . . , N 1, (10)
where e
TMTM is the erasing time constant for erasing
TM holograms using TM waves, and the exposure
time t1  tN1 can be expressed as
tiw
TM ln
1
1  i
sat
TM exp2 nN12N tneTMTE exp2i1
N
ti1
e
TMTM
for i 1, 2, . . . , N 1. (11)
As long as the parameters sat
TTE, sat
TM, w
TE, w
TM,
e
TETE, e
TMTE, and e
TMTM in the above equations are
obtained, the exposure times for each hologram can
be calculated.
To determine the required parameters in our sys-
tem, the similar technique described in Ref. 14 is
used in our experiments. The experimental setup for
measuring the writing time constant, the erasing
time constant, and the saturation diffraction effi-
ciency is the same as that described in Fig. 1. Ex-
perimental results show that saturation diffraction
efficiency of a TM hologram and the saturation dif-
fraction efficiency of a TE hologram keep almost the
same. They are both approximately 2.6  102. How-
ever, the writing speeds of these two holograms
are quite different. We can find w
TE  70 s, w
TM
 195 s, e
TETE  765 s, e
TMTE  1150 s, and
e
TMTM  1250 s in our experimental system. Be-
cause experimental results show that the saturation
diffraction efficiency for a TM hologram and a TE
hologram are the same, we can assume that these two
holograms have the same dynamic range. After
scheduled exposure for volume holographic storage,
the diffraction efficiency of each hologram is expected
to be proportional to 1M2 [15], whereM is the storing
number of holograms in the same volume. Accord-
ingly, we can expect the diffraction efficiency of each
hologram in our proposed scheme to be
2N
sat
TE 
2N1
sat
TE  . . . 
N
sat
TE 
N1
sat
TM  . . . 
2
sat
TM

1
sat
TM 
1
M2

1
	2N
2
. (12)
Usually, M is a large number. In the demonstra-
tions of Ref. 15, M is at least larger than 100. How-
ever, the saturation diffraction efficiency of the
crystal used in this system is quite small. To avoid
the situation in which the diffraction of each multi-
plexed hologram is too weak to read, only 20 holo-
grams are hybrid multiplexed in our demonstration.
Therefore the parameters used in this system are
N  10 and M  20. Since the saturation diffraction
efficiency of the crystal in this system is 2.6  102,
the theoretical diffraction efficiency of each hologram
based on Eq. (12) should be 6.5  105. Accordingly,
each exposure time for these twenty holograms can
be calculated via Eqs. (4)–(11). The calculation re-
sults show that the variation in exposure times is
11.2 s down to 10.3 s for the first ten holograms and
3.7 down to 3.6 s for the second ten holograms. These
variations of exposure times are quite small, and the
results indicate that little total erasure is taking
place in the system. Even a larger number of polar-
ization holograms are recorded in the system, for
example, N  100 and M  200, our theoretical cal-
culation results show that the situation of small vari-
ations in exposure times does not change. Thus one
might think that little scheduling is required. How-
ever, the small variations of exposure times are
mainly induced by the large erase time constant of
the crystal in our system. For a system with a smaller
erase time constant, the variations of recording times
from the first to the last hologram will become large.
Accordingly, the developed technique of exposure
schedule in this section is still useful and required
because the erase time constant could vary in differ-
ent systems.
4. Optical Implementation
To prove the theoretical calculation model, the corre-
sponding experiments for storing 20 plane holograms
are demonstrated. In this demonstrated experiment,
ten TM holograms were sequentially angular multi-
plexed in a LiNbO3 crystal with the calculated results
3236 APPLIED OPTICS  Vol. 46, No. 16  1 June 2007
