 2
2. Research Results on the Antenna Elements 
2.1 Introduction 
Helix antennas [1,2] have distinguished characteristics of radiations including a broad bandwidth of 
operational frequencies, relatively high gains and good polarization performances. Depending on its 
designed structure, a variety of operations may be created including linear or circular polarizations, and 
omni- or directional radiation patterns. As the operational frequencies go up to relatively high levels, 
such as in the Ku-band of satellite communications, the cost of manufactures and RF circuit complexity 
may increase significantly especially as it is employed in the applications of antenna arrays [2,3]. This 
paper is thus motivated and presents a method to realize the antenna by using printed circuit 
technologies [4]. This method is particularly useful in the realization of RF system in package (SIP) 
[5~7] where the antenna itself may be integrated as a part of the SIP. This is advantageous especially 
when an array of antennas is interested to provide pencil beams at high frequencies, where the 
wavelength is relatively small and makes the printed circuit technology suitable; the entire antenna 
system may be realized simultaneously on the same multi-layered PCB. It allows the antenna 
subsystem realized at a very low cost and in an effective way for mass productions. 
This report is presented in the following format. Section 2.2 presents the proposed approach of 
antenna realizations. Section 2.3 presents the numerical characteristic studies of this antenna, which is 
further validated by experiments of a prototype. Finally some discussions are presented in section 2.4 
for a conclusion and future studies. 
 
2.2 The Realization of a Single Antenna Element 
This helix-type antenna is first equivalently modeled by a series of horizontal arcs whose front end 
and the back end of a subsequent arc are then connected by vertical wires as shown in Figure 1, which 
may be realized by low-temperature-cofired-ceramic (LTCC) technologies [8] in industry. In this 
practical realization the antenna element is realized by printing its arcs on the interfaces of multi-layer 
substrates and connecting the arcs’ terminals by using conducting via that penetrates each layer of the 
substrate.  In the example demonstrated in this paper as shown in Figure 1, the substrate selects a 
multi-layer FR4 material with a dielectric constant, 4.6, and a finite size for a realistic consideration of 
future manufacture. However, other types of materials can also be applied if at the operational 
frequencies the energy loss significantly impacts the antenna’s radiation. It is assumed that the 
thicknesses of each layer as well as their dielectric constant are same for simplity. In the later sections 
of numerical and experimental studies a 60 x 60 x 3.2 mm3 FR4 substrate is selected to demonstrate the 
concept, where 8 layers are assumed. Thus the thickness of each layer is 0.4mm. This assumption is 
 4
as the frequency continues to increase to 14 GHz, the gain starts to decrease because of the energy loss 
inside FR4 substrates at high frequencies. Within the valid band of frequencies in practical applications, 
the gain maintains beyond 2dBi from the observation of measurement. 
A potential application of this antenna element forms an antenna array to increase the flexibility of 
antenna radiations such as shaping beams and increasing gain. The advantage is that the antenna 
elements can be printed on the same substrate. In this case, a 9 (3x3) element array with equal element 
spacing is considered, which is sufficient to examine the mutual coupling effects between elements. In 
this study, it is confident to use HFSS to analyze the array without going through experimental 
measurement since its accuracy was validated in the previous single element case. The array with a 
variety of element spacing is analyzed. The effects on the return loss are first shown in Figure 6, where 
a corner and central elements are considered with results shown in Figure 6(a) and (b), respectively. 
Note that a shorter distance implies a stronger mutual coupling between elements. Figure 6 shows that 
separation distances rise no significant impacts, where almost all curves within the frequency band 
retain below -10 dB. The axial ratio is next examined and shown in Figure 7, where 12.45GHz is 
assumed. It is observed that the stronger mutual coupling worsens the axial ratio. As the separation 
distance decreases down to 4.5mm, the axial ratio may reach 11.79dB. However, weaker mutual 
coupling may improve the axial ratio. As shown in Figure 7, as the separation distance increases to 12 
mm (half wavelength in a free space), the axial may be significantly improved and drops to 0.92 dB. 
Note that the axial ratio for a single element is approximately 2.46dB. 
The characteristics of the array’s radiations are shown on Figure 8 (a) and (b). The gain of the array 
increases as the spacing distance increases and therefore the 3dB beam width deceases as shown in 
Figure 9 and 10. In another words, the radiation pattern becomes more directive. Also shown in Figure 
9 is the side-lobe levels measured with respect to the main lobe’s peak. Considering the performance of 
axial ratios for CP operation with reasonably well gains and sidelobe levels, a half wavelength of the 
free space seems to be a good choice as the element separation distance as evident from Figure 7, 8 and 
9. In this case the sidelobe levels with respect to the peaks of the patterns appear to be very low in this 
variation range of separation distance. 
 
2.4 Conclusion 
This report presents a practical approach to realize the helix antenna based on printed circuit 
technologies, which is particularly low cost in the manufacture. Characteristic studies based on 
numerical simulation exhibits that the proposed structure retains distinguished performances as 
originally provided by helix antennas in a free space. In the present case, only two loops are employed 
 6
 
(b) Photo of the top layer in the prototype 
Figure 1: Printed helix-type antenna structure 
 
 
Figure 2: The return loss of a single antenna element. 
 
 8
(a) 60φ =  degree plane 
 
(b) 150φ =  degree plane 
Figure 4: The measured antenna prototype’s radiation pattern at 12.45GHz. 
 10
 
(b) Central element 
 
Figure 6: Return loss of a 3x3 antenna array with respect to various elements’ spacing 
distances. 
 
Figure 7: Axial ratio of the array’s radiation pattern with respect to elements’ spacing 
distances 
 
 
 12
  
Figure 9: Axial ratio of the array’s radiation pattern with respect to elements’ spacing 
distances 
 
 
Figure 10: -3 dB beamwidth of the array’s radiation pattern with respect to the 
elements’ spacing distances 
 
 
 
 
 
授。亦發表了近八篇論文，在國內各校與會中實屬論文較多者。今
年參加發表的論文，包括口頭發表及壁報發表總計將近 1600 篇，每
天分成 40 組進行口頭及壁報發表，連續進行五天。今年論文重點在
Small Antenna Applications, Metamaterials, Reflector 
Antennas, Multi-Radio Antennas, RFID applications, 
Electromagnetics, Numerical Methods, Nano- and Micro-
Antennas, Wideband Antennas, In Honor of Professor Prabhaka 
H. Pathak, Memorial Sections for Charles H. Papas and 
Donald G. Dudley, Antennas in Biomedical Applications, 
Antenna Arrays 。 大 會 同 時 安 排 學 生 論 文 發 表 競 賽 ， 頒 發
Distinguished Achievement Award、Chen-To Tai Distinguished 
Educator Award、 John Kraus Antenna Award、 A. Schelkunoff 
Transactions Prize Paper Award、H. A. Wheeler Applications 
Prize Paper Award、R. W. P. King Award，頒發 17 位 2008 IEEE 
Fellows。大會還邀請相關的廠商展示新的產品，其中大部份是在天
線量測或電磁學教學方面的軟體廠商，當然也包括一些書商，另外
還有一些儀器廠商等。總計參展的公司有二十二家左右如 2COMU, 
Acceleware Corp., Ansoft, Bluetest AB, Carnegie Mellon 
University, EmScan Corporation, ETS-Lindgen, FEKO, IMST 
GubH, MI Technologies, Mician GMbh, Mig Microwave 
Innovation Group, Morgan & Claypool Publishers, NSI, 
Orbit/FR, Remcon, Satimo, Scitech Publishing Inc., TICRA, 
Wily-Blackwell, WPL-Dd.o.o., Zeland Software。大會每天也安
排一些參觀附近的歷史文化活動，如 1) San Diego Sights City 
Tour and Harbor Excursion (可以看到二次世界大戰中的中途號航
空母艦)；2) San Diego Zoo Behind the Scenes Tour；3) Birch 
Aquarium and Village of La Jolla；4) Temecula Wine Country 
面的學者專家如 Constantine A. Balanis、Prabhakar H.Pathak、
Cynthia Furse 、Paolo Nepa 等，並交換許多學術交流意見，保持
好的聯絡管道，算是此行最大的收穫。看各國之技術發展過程，我
們深刻發現，有機會在國際上展頭角者，有一重要的本團隊有六位
老師與會也展示了相當之研究成果，這種團隊之方式，以往在國內
相當難形成，近年來在多方的努力下逐漸形成，也逐步發展，帶給
我們相當大的契機，我們除了感謝努力之人外，亦希望我們的努力
能產出更佳之成果。尤其在 10 月份舉辦之 ISAP2008 中我們亦含孔
金甌教授舉辦 special section 來 honor 他。 
 
1.3 考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略):   
 
無 
 
1.4 建議: 
本次研討會分別來自世界各地從式天線理論、量測與設計、
EMI/EMC、醫學應用，電磁理論與計算、電磁教學改進、高頻電路設
計、導波管與微帶研究、通訊傳播、無線通訊應用、電磁數值分
析…等等各分面的專家共同探討有關天線與傳播在工業界、科學
界、醫學界、及教育界等方面的問題，同時在電磁場環境影響上亦
作了深入的討論。參加這次研討會的國家大部分是科技很發達的國
家，如美國、俄羅斯、英國、德國、法國、日本、加拿大、韓國、
義大利。他們的態度是積極的，發表的學術論文亦甚有水準。同時
有許多論文是朝應用實作方面去研究，反觀國內的研究，實作方面
的研究實在太少。因此建議政府及相關單位、學術界、研究單位等
應共同努力多從事有關實務方面的研究，使得我們的工業能更進一
步的提升。 
Gaussian beam techniques are developed, where the Gaussian 
beam is generalized to be the radiation from complex point 
sources located in the complex domain. In this trip, the 
progress of this work was discussed. Especially, the 
solution is extended into time domain. Formulations have 
been developed and numerical results will be applied to 
validate the solutions, which will be presented in URSI 
general assembly in Chicago, USA in August. In the third 
subject, collaboration was carried out with Prof. J-F Lee. 
His student has reviewed some work with us (Prof. Lee was 
not able to attend the meeting). We have seen tremendous 
progress of techniques developed in OSU by Prof. Lee’s 
team. Some of his works will be used to design array 
antennas in the future phase of the work. 
 
 
2.2 Collaboration with University of Pisa (Italy) 
   Collaboration is established with Prof. Manana and Nepa 
in the antenna techniques for Wimax applications, which is 
currently sponsored by NSC based on mutual agreement with 
Italy side. In the current phase, based antenna design for 
multi-bands operations is focused. The Italian side (Prof. 
Nepa) has sent us the antenna design, and YZU has realized 
the antennas and conducted performance measurement. In this 
trip, we has reviewed the progress and also discussed the 
research observations on the design antenna performance. 
Several conclusions have been made for the improvement of 
