process—employing CO2 and CH4 as reactants—for the fabrication of 2D and 
three-dimensional (3D) CNFs on carbon cloth. The 2D arrays of CNFs arose as 
expected, whereas we obtained the 3D architectures when we applied a higher 
microwave power. The novel structure in super-capacitance and compare the 
electrochemical properties of the CNT-CNW electrode with that of pure CNT one.  
 
三、結果與討論 
Fig. 1 displays SEM images of the CNFs synthesized on the carbon cloth under 
various microwave powers after hydrogen plasma pretreatment. Figs. 1(a)–(c) present 
images of the CNFs formed at 200 W and a relatively low substrate temperature (ca. 
380 °C) for 5, 10, and 15 min, respectively. After 5 min, many tiny carbon islands 
were distributed uniformly on the substrate; on average, these islands were ca. 100 nm 
long and ca. 5 nm wide. After 10 min, the substrate was covered with structural 
carbon materials that evolved from the tiny islands; the CNFs were interlaced to form  
a carbon nest-like film. After 15 min, the CNFs all had a similar length of several 
micrometers and a height of ca. 1 µm. Even when operated for a longer length of time, 
the thickness of the film remained at 1 µm on account of lateral growth [13]. When 
we operated the system at 300 W for 15 min at substrate temperatures of up to 420 °C 
[Fig 1(d)], the morphology of the product was similar to that obtained at 200 W, 
except that it contained more stretching branches attached to the surface of the major 
nanoflakes, such that a fraction of smaller pores existed. This phenomenon might 
have arisen from the presence of activated sites during the etching process in the 
CO2/CH4 plasma system. Oxygen-containing species (e.g., OH) play an important role 
in removing amorphous carbon and, thus, facilitate the formation of graphite 
structures [14]. The etching process might also have resulted in significant damage to 
the CNFs’ surfaces to create dangling bonds of free carbon atoms as active sites for 
nucleation. We conclude that applying more power induces more tiny pores to form, 
i.e., a much smaller porous structure results. We obtained a totally different 
morphology [Fig 1(e)], however, when we applied an even greater microwave power 
(400 W) and relatively high substrate temperatures (up to 480 °C) to the system. Fig 
1(f) displays a 3D construction comprising flower-like aggregates of extremely small 
flakes.  
 
 
 
 
                         
 
 
                                 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. SEM images of the samples deposited at 400 W for (a) 1, (b) 10, and (c, d) 
30 min. 
A critical microwave power is required for effective ion bombardment, 
sputtering, and etching during plasma processing [15], such that a disordered carbon 
structure can be formed. Even at a high deposition rate of carbon, the reaction time 
might not be sufficiently high for inner, disordered carbon atoms to form continuous 
walls through collision, leading to restricted graphitization. Our findings suggested 
that, at 400 W, an enormous number of amorphous carbon atoms deposited initially, 
impregnated with oxygen-containing groups as active sites, which then gradually 
transformed into CNF structures through aggregation and interior collision processes. 
The CNFs that we prepared in this study (20–30 nm long and 3–5 nm wide) are much 
smaller than those which have been limited as a 2D material [10, 11]. Most 
interestingly, the 3D flower-like clusters prepared at 400 W had an average pore size 
of 12.3 nm and an appreciably greater surface area (728.6 m2/g) than those prepared at 
300 W (363.6 m2/g) or 200 W (331.3 m2/g). With respect to the structure formed at 
200 W, the slightly increased surface area formed at 300 W resulted from the 
presence of stretching branches, consistent with our SEM observations. For 
comparison, the surface area of the unmodified carbon cloth was 119.5 m2/g. The 
mechanism of synthesis of CNFs from carbon cloth can be divided broadly into three 
parts. At first, aggregation of carbon atoms occurs at the activated sites. The lateral 
growth of CNFs then proceeds in preference to vertical growth under the conditions; 
it results from the fact that dangling bonds of a free carbon atom can be considered 
asymmetric, with three in-plane sp2 bonds and a PZ orbital that is perpendicular to this 
plane. This asymmetry is also an important factor for the catalytic synthesis of tubular 
structures. Finally, the carbon atoms are subjected to collision to form walls, as 
predicted by molecular dynamics simulations [16]. The deposition of a large amount 
of amorphous carbon and the bombarding and etching processes at high power may 
have led to the 3D construction. In addition, defects such as pentagons and heptagons 
may have led not only to the curved structures but also to the nanoflake branches, 
which are marked with arrows in Fig 1, because they could serve as initiation sites for 
damaging of the surface. This process is common in the fabrication of CNTs [17]. Fig 
form non-crystalline structures in the absence of hydrogen pretreatment. A 
distinguishable difference from between the investigation images of in Figs 1(d) and 
Fig 4(d) depicts is that the morphology of the sample prepared for at 300 W in the 
absence of hydrogen pretreatment tends to have theexhibits features similar to those 
of the sample of formationed at 400 W after hydrogen pretreatment. This finding 
suggests that the initial stage at which the carbon atoms nucleate as seeds is crucial to 
the resulting morphologies and structures. We recorded micro-Raman spectra to 
investigate this phenomenon. Fig 5 displays Raman spectra of the samples in the 
region 1200–1700 cm–1. We observe three distinct peaks: a typical graphite vibration 
mode G-band at 1580 cm–1, a disordered carbon mode D-band at 1348 cm–1, and a D´ 
line at 1620 cm–1. The peak at 1580 cm–1 indicates that graphite structures were 
fabricated during growth; the peak at 1348 cm–1 resulted from defects in the curved 
graphite sheets, tube ends, and surviving impurities; the weak peak at 1620 cm–1 
corresponds to a maximum in the density of states of the mid-zone phonon and also 
reveals a disorder-induced behavior similar to that of the signal at 1348 cm–1. We 
suggest that the D and D´ lines resulted from disorder-induced features caused by 
lattice distortion [19].  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. SEM images of the samples deposited (without H2 plasma pretreatment) 
through CO2/CH4 treatment for (a) 5 min at 200 W, (b) 10 min at 200 W, (c) 15 min 
at 200 W, (d) 15 min at 300 W, and (e) 15 min at 400 W. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Values of ID/IG from the Raman spectra plotted with respect to the applied 
microwave power. 
 
On the other hand, we also prepared coral-like CNTs on Stainless-steel plate as 
electrode for supercapacitor. In past years, carbon nanotube (CNT) has also been 
identified as a promising material in such energy uses. Based on these concepts, we 
thought that combining the two structural carbon nanomaterials could be considered 
to complement the contribution of each structure. Catalytic particles essential for the 
growth of carbon nanomaterials were directly performed on the substrate as we can 
see in Figure 7.  
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7. SEM image of CNTs synthesized on stainless steel substrate by 
MPECVD (ratio of methane to hydrogen is 1:3 and deposition time: 30 min). 
 
We suggest that when CNTs are attacked by accelerated oxygen-containing ions, 
like O-H [14, 23], the damaged surface tends to form tiny matters with 
lattice-matched graphite layer as a result of hydrogenation [24], causing the CNFs to 
be separated from the CNTs, as revealed by HRTEM images. Ultimately, the carbon 
depositions collide to form horn structures, and later turn into the walls of the CNFs, 
as predicted by molecular dynamics simulations [25]. More details could be further 
realized from the investigation of TEM images in Figure 8. Figure 8a shows the TEM 
image of the pure CNTs with the expectable tubular structure. Compared with Figure 
8a, Figure 8b shows a low magnification TEM image of coral-like CNTs with much 
rough surface, caused by the existence of additional attachments. Most of the 
coral-like CNTs have the similar diameter to the CNTs in Figure 8a, around 40 nm. 
Among these CNTs, some seems to have the growth of nanoflakes at the beginning, 
capacitor much more than the CNTs one, even at such a high scan rate of 10 V/s. This 
results from the good conductivity and stability of the carbon structures and transport 
of ions within the unique network. It is clear that the coral-like CNTs electrode is 
more suitable for the application of energy store system with applying high power. 
Moreover, the fact that the coral-like CNTs electrode shows greater current density 
than the CNTs electrode represents a higher capacitance. By comparison, capacitance 
of the coral-like CNTs electorde nearly doubles that of the CNTs electrode to be about 
147 F/g. This is highly connected with the surface enhancement and much more ion 
access porous structure of graphitic carbon nanoflakes. As proposed by Keiser et al., 
such porous structure is more suitable for electrochemical applications than 
cylindrical one and other porous structures from the investigation of corresponding 
complex-plane impedance plots [27]. Furthermore, the attached carbon nanoflake sp2 
sttructures are twisted graphitic planes. They are expected to have chemical 
characteristics different from the closed carbon shells, which are chemical inert on 
account of the high in-plane covalent bonds (5 eV/bond). Functional gropus, such as 
C=O and C-OH, are incorporated prevalently into the edge of defective planes. It is 
suggested that as a result of the incorporation, it could enhance accumulation of ions 
tremendously to increase the capacitance. This circumstance is similar to that 
conventional activation by HNO3 or KOH is taken, attaching functional groups to 
carbon materials [14, 23]. The Nyquist plots for two electrodes from AC impedance 
measurements are shown in Figure 10.  
 
 
 
 
                                     
 
 
 
 
Figure. 10 Constant current (1 mA) charge–discharge measurement of as-prepared 
electrode. 
 
It reveals that two electrodes exhibit the characteristic of a typical double-layer 
capacitor. Slope lines observed at higher frequency in the plots indicate that diffusion 
control is a limiting factor in the kinetics of the electrode process [28]. In addition, 
compared with CNTs electrode in the CH4-H2 system, the coral-like CNTs electrode 
could lower the intrinsic resistance, related to the solution and structure itself, since 
CNF aggregate—prepared through a catalyst-free, low-temperature, highly efficient 
fabrication process—might have commercial applicability for use in energy storage 
systems because of its high surface area and porous structure. On the other hand, we 
also demonstrate growth of coral-like CNTs and pure CNTs structure in CH4-CO2 
system and CH4-H2 system, respectively. Microscopic images suggest a different 
growth mechanism of coral-like CNTs from that of pure CNTs by replacing hydrogen 
with carbon dioxide in a specific ratio to methane. As regarding to the electrochemical 
measurements, it is revealed that the coral-like CNTs electrode beats the CNTs 
electrode with much larger capacitance of about 147 F/g, and distinguishable lower 
intrinsic resistance. The remarkable performance arises on account of the existence of 
the extra porous structure. Also, the outstanding performance of long cycle life 
indicates a route for commercial applications of the coral-like CNTs material on 
energy store systems. 
 
 
 
四、參考文獻 
1. H. W. Kroto, J. R. Heath, S. C. O’Brien, R. F. Curl, and R. E. Smalley, Nature, 
318 (1985) 162. 
2. T. M. Whitney, J. S. Jiang, P. C. Searson, and C. L. Chien, Science, 261 (1993) 
1316. 
3. M. M. J. Treacy, T. W. Ebbenson, and J. M. Gibson, Nature, 381 (1996) 678.  
4. P. Delaney, H. J. Choi, J. Ihm, S. G. Louie, and M. L. Cohen, Nature, 391 (1998) 
466. 
5. S. S. Wong, E. Joselevich, A. T. Woolley, C. L. Cheung, and C. M. Lieber, 
Nature, 394 (1998) 52. 
6. S. J. Tans, A. R. M. Verschueren, and C. Dekker, Nature, 393 (1998) 49. 
7. C. Liu, Y. Y. Fan, M. Liu, H. T. Cong, H. M. Cheng, and M. S. Dresselhaus, 
Science, 286 (1999) 1127. 
8. S. Fan, M. G. Chapline, N. R. Franklin, T. W. Tombler, A. M. Cassel, and H. 
Dai, Science, 283 (1999) 512. 
9. D. Gournis, M. A. Karakassides, T. Bakas, N. Boukos, and D. Petridis, Carbon, 
40 (2002) 2641. 
10. G. H. Chen, W. G. Weng, D. J. Wu, C. L. Wu, J. R. Lu, P. P. Wang, and X. F. 
Chen, Carbon, 42 (2004) 753. 
11. S. K. Srivastava, A. K. Shukla, V. D. Vankar, V. Kumar, Thin Solid Film, 492 
(2005) 124. 
12. H. Keiser, K. D. Beccu, and M. A. Gutjahr, Electrochim. Acta, 12 (1976) 539. 
13. Y. H. Wu, B. J. Yang, Nano Lett., 2 (2002) 355. 
