2to a module and by performing module matching. These schemes perform module matching first and
port matching thereafter. However, these schemes require more than one iteration in the module matching
process to achieve an acceptable performance. This number of iterations can accumulate a long processing
delay as in each module matching iteration the matching information (e.g., requests and grants) travels
from IMs to CMs and back to IM (for port matching) in the implementation of a scheduler that follows
a distributed approach. As IMs and CMs are located in the different boards, the exchange of information
between arbiters in different modules has to be reduced.
In this paper, we address the reduction of iterations of information exchange between IMs and CM
by proposing a novel three-stage clos-network switch architecture that uses buffers in the crossbars of
the third-stage modules, this switch is called space-space-memory (SSM) Clos-network switch. The SSM
Clos-network switch reduces the complexity of the configuration process as output contention is resolved
by using crosspoint buffers in the output modules. The memory in the third-stage modules of the SSM
switch doesn’t need to work with speedup [11].
Therefore, we proposed one weighted configuration algorithms, the weighted module-first and none-
port matching scheme (WMF-NP) scheme, for this space-space-memory (SSM) Clos-network switch. The
approach can reduce the configuration complexity and the number of IM-CM iterations as more IM-CM
iterations produce long resolution delay. As the scheme is designed for the SSM Clos-network switch,
the scheme includes output arbitrations over the buffers in the third-stage modules, and has no matching
processes between input and output ports. This is an advantage over the previously proposed weight-based
module-first matching scheme for IQC switches [10]. Furthermore, the simulation results show the high
performance of the proposed approach using weight-based scheme under uniform and nonuniform traffic.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section II presents the switch architecture. Section
III describes the proposed configuration scheme, WMF-NP. SectionIV presents the performance evaluation.
Section V presents our conclusions.
II. SSM CLOS-NETWORK SWITCH ARCHITECTURE
The SSM Clos-network switch is a three-stage switch architecture with crosspoint buffers in the third-
stage modules and virtual output queues (VOQs) at the input ports as shown in Figure 1. The following
terminology is used, as in [3]: IM(i): (i + 1)th input module, where 0 ≤ i ≤ k − 1, CM(r): (r + 1)th
central module, where 0 ≤ r ≤ m − 1, OM(j): (j + 1)th output module, 0 ≤ j ≤ k − 1, n: number
of input/output ports in each IM/OM, k: number of IMs/OMs, m: number of CMs, IP (i, g): (g + 1)th
input port (IP) at IM(i), where 0 ≤ g ≤ n− 1, OP (j, h): (h + 1)th output port (OP) at OM(j), where
0 ≤ g ≤ n− 1, LI(i, r): (r + 1)th output link at IM(i) that is connected to CM(r), LC(r, j): (j + 1)th
output link that is connected to OM(j), V OQ(i, g, j, h): virtual output queue at IP (i, g) that stores cells
destined for OP (j, h), and CXB(r, j, h): crosspoint buffer at OM(j) that stores cells at CM(r) destined
to OP (j, h). Each IP (i, g) has N = n×k VOQs to avoid head-of-line (HOL) blocking [12]. Each OM(j)
has N = n× k crosspoint buffers.
III. WEIGHTED MODULE-FIRST AND NONE-PORT MATCHING (WMF-NP) SCHEME
WMF-NP uses the module-matching first approach [10], using weights assigned by the occupancy of
an input module for an output module. To determine the weight for the IM(i)−OM(j) matching, a VOQ
module counter VMC(i, j) is used to count the number of cells in IM(i) that are destined to OM(j)
(i.e. VMC(i, j) =
n−1∑
g=0
n−1∑
h=0
|V OQ(i, g, j, h)|), where VOQ occupancy is denoted as |V OQ|. The matching
process follows a request-grant-accept approach. In general, the switch performs multiple iterations in the
matching between inputs and IM output-link arbiters, and between IM and OM modules. Each LI(i, r)
has an available/matched flag FLI(i, r) and each LC(r, j) has an available/matched flag FLC(r, j). These
flags indicate whether a link (and therefore the configuration of CM(r)) is selected or not. These flags are
used to define eligibility of an OM in the module-matching phase. OM(j) is considered eligible to match
IM(i) if at least there is one path (and LI(i, r1) and LC(r2, j), where r1 = r2) is available connecting
these two modules. The following is the description of WMF-NP matching scheme:
First iteration of WMF-NP (IIM−CM )
Part 1: Module matching: first iteration
4switch are compared. The number of iterations for module matching, which mean that the information
travels between arbiters in IMs and CMs, is denoted as IIM−CM . Due to the same number of iterations for
port matching, the matching within IM, and the matching within CM, the indication for those iterations in
the following figures is denoted as q. The crosspoint buffer size in OMs is denoted as B. It is considered
a 256 × 256 Clos-network switch with n = m = k = 16 to show the performances of these schemes.
The traffic models considered have Bernoulli arrivals with destinations with uniform and nonuniform
distributions. The simulation does not consider the segmentation and re-assembly delays for variable size
packets. Simulation results are obtained with a 95% confidence interval, not greater than 5% standard
error for the average cell delay.
Figure 2 shows the simulation results of 256× 256 switches with WMoM and WMF-NP schemes both
under uniform traffic with Bernoulli arrivals. This figure shows that the WMF-NP can achieve 100%
throughput with q = 16 and B = 2, as WMoM does, under uniform traffic. The figure also shows that
the average delay performance of WMF-NP under this traffic is lower than that of WMoM. The reason
for this improvement is that WMF-NP removes port matching to reduce configuration complexity.
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1
0.1
1
10
100
1000
10000
Input load
A
v
er
ag
e 
d
el
ay
 (
ti
m
e 
sl
o
ts
)
IIM-CM=1
256 256 switch
n=m=k=16
WMoM,q=16
WMF-NP,q =16,B=2
Fig. 2. WMoM and WMF-NP in a n=m=k=16 switch under Bernoulli uniform traffic.
We simulated WMoM and WMF-NP under two different nonuniform traffic patterns: unbalanced and
diagonal. Because of space limitations, the description of these models are referenced to [15].
Figure 3 shows the throughput performance of WMoM and WMF-NP under unbalanced traffic. This
figure shows that the throughput of WMF-NP is above 99% with q = 16 and B = 2 as that of WMoM
under the complete range of w. The high throughput of WMF-NP under this traffic model is the product
of considering the VOQ and CXB occupancy and of providing multiple paths between IMs and OMs.
Figure 4 shows that WMF-NP, using IIM−CM = 2 and B = 2, delivers higher throughput than WMoM,
using IIM−CM = 16, under the complete range of x. One of the reasons for this improvement is that
WMF-NP scheme for SSM Clos-network switches use the input and output port arbiters separately instead
of ports matching with multiple iterations, that is, the information doesn’t travel from CM to IM for ports
matching.
V. CONCLUSIONS
In this chapter, a novel SSM Clos-network switch is proposed. The SSM Clos-network switch uses
crosspoint buffers in output modules and the memory used in the crosspoint buffers needs no speedup.
one configuration scheme for SSM Clos-network switches, called the weighted module first (WMF-NP)
matching, is also proposed. The scheme reduces the configuration complexity and the number of iterations
in the exchange of information between IMs and CMs by removing port matching. The scheme requires
small and feasible size schedulers. The reduction of the number of IM-CM iterations is of major importance
in three-stages Clos-network switches as the input modules are located in different physical locations from
the central modules in a large switch to make their implementation feasible.
6[2] P. Gupta and N. McKeown, “Design and implmentation of a fast crossbar scheduler,” IEEE Hot Interconnects VI, 8 pages, Aug. 1998.
[3] E. Oki, Z. Jing, R. Rojas-Cessa, and H. J. Chao, “Concurrent roun-robin dispatching scheme for Clos-network switches,” IEEE/ACM
Trans. Networking, Vol. 10, No. 6, pp. 830-844, May 2001.
[4] F.M. Chiussi, J.G. Kneuer, and V.P. Kumar “Low-cost scalable switching solutions for broadband networking: the ATLANTA architecture
and chipset ” IEEE Commun. Mag., pp. 44-53, Dec. 1997.
[5] K. Pun and M. Hamdi, “Static round-robin dispatching schemes for Clos-network switches,” IEEE HPSR, pp. 239-243, May 2002.
[6] K. Pun and M. Hamdi, “Distro: A distributed static round-robin scheduling algorithm for bufferless clos-network switches,” IEEE
Globecom 2002, Vol. 3, pp. 2298-2302, 2002.
[7] H.J. Chao, Z. Jing, and S.Y. Liew, “Matching algorithms for three-stage bufferless Clos network switches,” IEEE Commun. Mag., Vol.
41, Issue 10, pp. 46-54, Oct. 2003.
[8] T.T. Lee and S-Y Liew, “Parallel routing algorithm in Benes-Clos networks,” IEEE INFOCOM’ 96, pp. 279-286, 1996.
[9] K. Y. Eng, and A. S. Acampora, “ Fundamental conditions governing TDM switching assignments in terrestrial and satellite networks,”
IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. 40, no. 2, pp. 423-430, Feb. 1992.
[10] C-B. Lin and R. Rojas-Cessa, “Module Matching Schemes for Input-Queued Clos-Network Switches,” IEEE Commun. Letters, vol.
11, Number 2, pp. 194-196 February 2007.
[11] R. Rojas-Cessa, E. Oki, Z. Jing, and H. J. Chao, “CIXB-1: Combined 1587-1597, December 1988.Input-One-cell-crosspoint Buffered
Switch,” IEEE HPSR 2001, pp. 324-329, May 2001.
[12] M. Karol, M. Hluchyj, “Queuing in High-performance Packet-Switching,” IEEE J. Select. Area Commun., vol. 6, pp.
[13] M. Karol,and M. Hluchyj, “Queuing in High-performance Packet-switching,” IEEE J. Select. Area Commun., vol. 6, pp. 1587-1597,
December 1988.
[14] N. McKeown, A. Mekkittikul, V. Anantharam, and J. Walrand, “Achieving 100% throughput in an input-queued switch,” IEEE Trans.
Commun., Vol. 47, No. 8, pp. 1260-1267, Aug. 1999.
[15] R. Rojas-Cessa and C-B. Lin, “Captured-frame eligibility and round-robin matching for input-queue packet switches,” IEEE Commun.
Letters, Vol. 8, Issue 9, pp. 585-587, Sep. 2004.
[16] R. Rojas-Cessa, E. Oki, and H.J. Chao, “Maximum weight matching dispatching scheme in buffered Clos-network packet switches,”
IEEE ICC , Vol. 2, pp. 1075-1079, June 2004.
produced by queued and arriving cells, of the matched queue
is exhausted. This scheme has shown a throughput higher
than iSLIP and DRRM under nonuniform traffic patterns
at the cost of reduced performance under uniform traffic.
Furthermore, frame-based matchings have shown to improve
switching performance under different traffic scenarios [13],
[15].
We introduced the captured-frame concept and showed
its application on a maximal-size matching schemes, called
uFPIM and uFORM for IQ switches [18], [19]. These schemes
achieve higher performance than the existing maximal-size
matching schemes under uniform traffic and similar perfor-
mance of iterative weighted matching scheme under nonuni-
form traffic. This is achieved by using the frame service, where
the frame length depends on the accumulation of cells in a
given period of (service) time, and therefore, the frame length
is adjusted dynamically.
In this paper, we apply the captured-frame concept to
weighted matching schemes and compare them to framed
weightless matching schemes. Specifically, we apply the
captured-frame concept to the longest-queue first (LQF) selec-
tion scheme, and call the resulting schemes as the unlimited
framed longest-queue first (uFLQF) matching scheme. This
paper shows that the captured-frame concept, used in weighted
selection scheme improves further the performance of framed
arbitration schemes, which are run in a cell basis. We also
show that uFLQF retains the high performance of iterative
maximal-weight matching schemes under uniform traffic and
provides high throughput under nonuniform traffic with a
single iteration and no speedup.
This paper is organized as follows. Section II presents the
switch model under study and several definitions used in this
paper. Section III introduces the proposed arbitration scheme.
Section IV presents a simulation study of the throughput and
delay performance of the resulting switch under uniform and
nonuniform traffic patterns. Section V discusses the properties
of the proposed matching scheme. Section VI presents the
conclusions.
II. SWITCH MODEL AND PRELIMINARY DEFINITIONS
In this paper, we consider a single-stage IQ switch with N
input and output ports. There are N VOQs at each input port.
A VOQ at input port i that stores cells for output port j is
denoted as V OQi,j . The following definitions are used in the
description of the proposed matching scheme.
Frame. A frame is related to a VOQ. A frame is the set
of one or more cells in a VOQ that are eligible for matching.
Only the HOL cell of the frame is eligible for matching at
each time slot.
On-service status. A VOQ is said to be on-service status
if the VOQ has a frame size of two or more cells and the first
cell of the frame has been matched. An input is said to be
on-service status if there is at least one on-service VOQ.
Off-service status. A VOQ is said to be off-service if the
last cell of the VOQ’s frame has been matched (i.e., finished
service) or no cell of the frame has been matched (i.e., not
started service yet). Note that for a frame size of one cell,
the associated VOQ is off-service during the matching of its
one-cell frame. An input is said to be off-service if all VOQs
are in off-service status.
Captured frame size. At the time tc of matching the last
cell of the frame associated to V OQ(i, j), the next frame is
assigned a size equal to the cell occupancy at V OQ(i, j).
Cells arriving in V OQ(i, j) at time td, where td > tc, are
not considered for matching until the current frame is totally
served and a new frame is captured. We call this captured
frame as it is the equivalent of having a snapshot of the VOQ
occupancy at time tc, where the occupancy determines the
frame size.
Figure 1 shows an example of the frame capture and the
service status of a VOQ. At time slot t, the frame is off service,
and the request for a match of the HoL cell is off service as
well. Assuming that the size of the frame is four cells and
that the VOQ is first matched during time slot t, the VOQ
becomes on service at time slot t+1. The status of the VOQ
remains on service for the rest of the frame duration, or until
time slot t+ 3. After the last cell of the frame is matched, a
new frame is captured with a size of two cells, as these cells
are the only ones in the queue at this time. Then, the status
of the VOQ changes to off service in the following time slot.
Frame ( t) = 4 cells
Off status
Request
 (Off status)
Request
 (On status)
Request
 (On status)
Request
 (On status)
Frame ( t+1) = 3 cells
On status
Frame ( t+2 ) = 2 cells
On status
Frame ( t+4 ) = 2 cells
Off status
Frame ( t+3) = 1 cell
On status
(a) (b)
(c) (d)
Fig. 1. Example of a frame and the service status of a VOQ.
For each VOQ there is a captured frame-size counter,
CFi,j(t). The value of CFi,j(t) indicates the frame size; that
is, the maximum number of cells that a V OQ(i, j) can have
as candidates in the current and future time slots. CFi,j(t)
takes a new value when the last cell of the current frame of
V OQ(i, j) is matched. CFi,j(t) decreases its count each time
a cell is matched, other than the last. Each VOQ has a status
flag Fi,j to indicate the on/off service status. If VOQ is in
on-service status, Fi,j = 1. Otherwise, Fi,j = 0.
III. UNLIMITED FRAMED LONGEST QUEUE FIRST
(UFLQF) MATCHING SCHEME
The proposed matching scheme is based on the LQF scheme
as the selection policy. For each output, there is an output
arbiter aj that selects a request among all received according
to the policies described in the matching algorithm. For each
input, there is an input arbiter ai that accepts a grant among all
received according to the policies described in the matching
scheme.
For each VOQ, there is a captured frame-size counter,
CFi,j(t). We call this captured frame size as it is the equiva-
lent of having a snapshot of the occupancy of a VOQ at a given
time t, thus, the frame size is then equivalent to the occupancy
at time t. The value of CFi,j(t), |CFi,j(t)|, indicates the frame
size; that is, the maximum number of cells that a V OQi,j
can have as candidates in the following and future time slots.
an improved matching efficiency using a single iteration, com-
pared to the 1LQF matching scheme and a higher throughput
than the framed weightless matching scheme, uFORM.
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1
0.6
0.65
0.7
0.75
0.8
0.85
0.9
0.95
1
Unbalanced probability, w
T
h
ro
u
g
h
p
u
t
32x32 Switch
1LQF
4LQF
uFLQF
uFORM
Fig. 3. Throughput performance of uFLQF under unbalanced traffic
Chang’s traffic model can be defined as ρ = 0 for i =
j, and ρi,j = 1N−1 otherwise. The results show that the
obtained throughput is 66% by 1LQF, 99% by 4LQF, and
99% by uFLQF. The asymmetric traffic model is defined as
the following. Consider the asymmetry coefficients a0 = 0,
a1 = (f − 1)/(f
N−1 − 1), aj = a1 · f
j−1 ∀j 6= 0. Then
λ(i,(i+j) mod N) = aj and λi,j/λ[(i+1) mod N ],j = f ∀i 6= j
and [(i+ 1) mod N ] 6= j, and f = (100 : 1)−1/(N−2), where
λi,j is the input load from input i to output j. The coefficients
define that each neighboring port receives a load difference of
f . The obtained throughput is 83% by 1LQF, 100% by 4LQF,
and 100% by uFLQF. For comparison, uFORM also achieves
100% under this traffic model.
The diagonal traffic model distributes all the load of an
input between two different outputs, making the distribution
heavily distributed among a small number of output. This
traffic model is defined as ρi,j = 0.667 for j = i and 1− ρi,j
for j = (i+1) mod N , and ρi,j = 0 otherwise. These results
show that the obtained throughput is 82% by 1LQF, 88%
by 4LQF, and 98% by uFLQF. Again, for comparison, the
uFORM scheme achieves 95% throughput under this traffic
model. This shows that the consideration of weight in the
selection scheme increases the throughput.
These schemes were also evaluated under asymmetric traf-
fic. The throughput of 1LQF, 4LQF, uFLQF is 83%, 100% and
100%, respectively. Again, for comparison, the throughput of
uFORM was reported to be 100% under this traffic model. This
shows that uFLQF has equal performance (or higher, as shown
in other traffic models) than round-robin based schemes. Table
I summarizes the throughput performance of 1LQF, 4LQF, and
uFLQF under these three nonuniform traffic patterns.
V. PROPERTIES OF UFLQF
The selected frame size is the VOQ occupancy. Note that
in the case where a VOQ has no cells at the capturing time,
the VOQ can still participate in a matching after a new cell
arrives and as long as the input is off-service.
Traffic
Schemes
Changs
Asymmetric
Diagonal
1LQF 4LQF uFLQF
66% 99% 99%
83%
82%
100%
88%
100%
98.3%
TABLE I
THROUGHPUT PERFORMANCE OF UFLQF UNDER NONUNIFORM TRAFFIC
PATTERNS: CHANG’S, ASYMMETRIC, AND DIAGONAL
When a VOQ changes its status to on-service, that VOQ has
higher priority than the others to continue sending its request
in subsequent time slots. Therefore, the pair i − j matched
are latched for the duration of the frame. When an input is
off-service, all nonempty VOQs (independently of their CF
values) send a request to their respective outputs.
Under uniform traffic, the captured frame sizes are not
expected to reach large values because of the cell distribution
among all queues. Therefore, most queues may remain in off-
service status while completing service for one-cell frames.
The performance is mainly determined by the largest-weight
selected policy. Under unbalanced traffic, some queues are
expected to have heavier loads than others. The queues with
large occupancies have a higher service than the queues with
lower occupancy. The difference in frame sizes results in more
service for queues with a larger number of arrivals than those
for queues with a smaller number of arrivals.
Because the maximum size matching for a bipartite graph
known converges in O(N5/2) time and is described in [22],
and the maximum weight matching for a bipartite graph con-
verges in O(N3logN) running time [23]. The implementation
complexity of uFLQF is similar to than that of iLQF because
both schemes use a single iteration. The addition of the
counters in uFLQF are expected to be not significant because
it is one per input port. Furthermore, because the performance
improvement of the uFLQF scheme over 1LQF and 4LQF is
significant, the uFLQF can be determined to have lower time
complexity in addition to the performance gain.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
In this paper, we proposed the use of our captured-frame
concept to determine cell eligibility in weighted matching
schemes for input queued packet switches. We proposed the
unlimited framed LQF (uFLQF) matching schemes as an
example of such application. uFLQF uses a single itera-
tion and no speedup. We tested the proposed scheme under
several nonuniform traffic patterns. The presented scheme
shows above 99% throughput under the unbalanced traffic
model, using a single iteration and no speedup. uFLQF was
also studied under Chang’s, asymmetric, and diagonal traffic
Chuan-bi Lin and R. Rojas-Cessa, “Maximal weight matching scheme with frame 
occupancy-based for input-queued packet switches,” 17th IEEE workshop on 
LANMAN 2010, 5 pages, 5-7 May 2010.  
In this paper, we proposed the use of our captured-frame concept to determine cell 
eligibility in weighted matching schemes for input queued packet switches. The 
scheme is called as the unlimited framed longest-queue first (uFLQF) matching 
scheme. The simulation results show that the uFLQF can provide higher performance 
than weightless matching schemes using captured-framed concept under traffic with 
uniform and nonuniform distributions. uFLQF uses a single iteration and no speedup. 
Therefore, we will explore the captured-frame concept in Space-Space-Space (SSS) 
and Space-Space-Memory (SSM) Close-network switches to provide high 
performance under uniform and nonuniform traffic patterns with a single iteration.     
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：林傳筆 計畫編號：98-2218-E-324-003- 
計畫名稱：快速，有效率的方法來配置 Space-Space-Memory Clos-Network 交換器. 
量化 
成果項目 
實際已達
成數（被接
受或已發
表） 
預期總達成
數(含實際
已達成數)
本計畫
實際貢
獻百分
比 
單位 
備註（質化說明：如數
個計畫共同成果、成
果列為該期刊之封面
故事...等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告 /技術報
告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 0 70%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 2 75%  
研究報告 /技術報
告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
Chuan-bi Lin and R. 
Rojas-Cessa, ＇Maximal 
weight matching scheme 
with frame 
occupancy-based for 
input-queued packet 
switches,＇ 17th IEEE 
workshop on LANMAN 
2010, 5 pages, 5-7 May 
2010. 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 2 80% 
These two inventions 
have been filed for 
patents to the U.S. 
Patent and Trademark 
Office (USPTO, patent 
application). 
專利 
已獲得件數 0 0 100% 
件 
 
國外 
技術移轉 件數 0 0 100% 件  
 
