可延伸性手機系統介面之研究 
Extensible MMI system for mobile device 
計畫編號： 
執行期限：96年 8月 1日至 97年 7月 31日 
主持人：李嘉晃   國立交通大學資訊工程 
 
一、中文摘要 
隨著科技的日益進步，在行動裝置產品上，
過去的重點在強調功能強大，效能快速等技
術層面，現在則有愈來愈多的使用者講求造
型新穎、產品個性化。有鑑於此，本篇論文
提出一種視覺化的使用者介面快速建模共享
平台架構在手機上的應用，讓手機使用者能
依照不同的喜好，設計出符合產品風格的個
性化介面。 
 本篇提出的架構是用 XML、C#、ActiveX
和 ASP.Net 來實作。我們用 XML 來定義手
機上各種可能的操作介面，進一步利用這樣
定義出來的介面描述語言，讓使用者創造出
屬於自己的手機畫面。而藉由 C#強大的功
能，希望達到在任何裝有 .net compact 
framework 的手機平台上，能夠用定義好的
介面描述檔在不同的手機平台上執行。再利
用 ActiveX、ASP.Net的網頁技術，我們希望
達到讓使用者將設計好的個性化介面置於網
頁上讓其他人使用，而使用者也可以直接套
用設計好的手機介面描述檔，創造出更具特
色的手機介面。 
二、英文摘要 (Abstract) 
 Recently, the design of electronic products 
has been gradually shifted from unified and 
multi-functional operations to intuitive and 
personalized interface. In this study, we 
proposed a rapid user interface prototyping and 
sharing system for cellular phones, in which 
phone owners can design their own layouts 
easily and visually. 
 To develop such a system, many 
techniques, such as XML [1], C# [2], ActiveX 
and ASP.Net, are integrated. XML is used to 
define interface objects of a cellular phone and 
users can then manipulate these objects by 
simple drag-and-drop using the proposed 
system. Besides users could create 
personalized phone interface visually. Once a 
layout has been decided, XML description file 
would be generated. This file can be 
interpreted by different cellular phones 
embedded with .Net compact framework [3]. 
Moreover, a web-based system, constructed by 
ActiveX and ASP.Net, is provided for users to 
co-edit existing designs online and these 
designs could be shared with others. 
 
三、計畫緣由與目的 
With the increasingly development of the 
technology， electronic products have been 
changed gradually from multi-function and 
high-effect goals to special looks, novel design, 
easy to use and personalization style。 
In recent years, personalization style is 
becoming popular, but the user interface of cell 
phone could not be changed easily to match 
users’ personalization requirement. In practice, 
the design of cell phone user interface has been 
fixed when this cell phone is produced by 
vendors, so users could not change it according 
to their own requirements. 
In the past, when designing a cell phone, user 
interface, application software and hardware 
design are usually designed at the same time. 
Therefore, even user interface is changed 
slightly, it also needs to reset all system's 
settings. Moreover, it could not be modified by 
users and it can only be changed by cell phone 
vendors. Hence, in order to let user and cell 
phone designer can design cell phone interface 
by themselves, Extensible Man Machine 
Interface system version 3.0 (XMMI v3.0) is 
proposed to achieve the goal. 
XMMI v3.0 includes Mobile Interface 
Framework (MIF), Mobile Interface 
Description Language (MIDL), Mobile 
Interface Edit System (MIES), Mobile 
Interface Simulator (MIS), and Mobile 
“Height”, “BackColor” (background color), 
and “Visible” (whether presented on cell 
phone). 
Users and cell phone interface designers can 
use the text editor to edit MIDL files easily due 
to the MIDL files have to follow well-formed 
and validated properties. In this system, the 
Mobile Interface Edit System (MIES) is 
designed to let users and cell phone interface 
designers to edit MIDL file by using graphical 
user interface. 
 ITE 
According to our survey, the most time 
consuming part when using XMMI v2.0 [4] is 
the input of the text of menu and list. However, 
users and interface designers must input 
numbers of texts frequently when they want to 
create a fully cell phone interface description 
files. XDE is a new concept of XMMI v2.0, 
therefore, it does not solve this problem. Based 
on the understanding level of the operating 
manner of low layer, it needs about one hour to 
complete MMDL files when using XDE. 
Therefore, we design ITE to let users and 
interface designers create mobile text and save 
to the text database. When users and interface 
designers want to design MIDL files, they only 
need to refer to the data of text database 
without inputting text by themselves. 
Take SonyEricsson K700 as example, it's 
architecture is shown in Fig.3. 
 
Fig.3. Architecture of text of SonyEricsson 
K700 
Base on our survey, the architecture of cell 
phone text is tree-form architecture. The first 
text interface when users use cell phone is 
Level 1, and when users select specific 
function based on different purposes, it goes 
into the corresponding Level 2 and so on. The 
result of ITE is shown in Fig. 4. 
 
Fig.4.snapshot of ITE 
 
 Mobile Interface Editor 
Besides using part of the operating manner of 
XMMI v2.0 XDE, MIE makes numbers of 
improvements to co-operate with XMMI v3.0. It 
let users and interface designers who understand 
the operating manner of low layer use and those 
who do not understand low layer to operate the 
system easily. 
According to our survey, the users’ cell phone 
behavior is the switching between the screens. 
For example, the switching includes switching 
from idle screen to menu screen, and then from 
menu screen to list screen according to different 
requirements. Therefore, the design of MIE 
adopts this concept. It lets user edit a screen one 
time, and then sets the type of this application, 
and sets the behavior that switching between the 
When finishing the MIDL files, users and 
interface designers can use the MIS provided 
by XMMI v3.0 to simulate the cell phone 
immediately, and modify the MIDL 
appropriately.  Fig. 7 shows the comparisons 
of SonyEricsson K700 and the simulate results  
Fig. 7 SonyEricsson K700 and XMMI v3.0 
simulator. 
 
which adopts the simulator to simulate MIDL 
files.  In the comparison of Fig. 7, the result is 
the same in the idle status, and the result in the 
menu and list status has a little difference in the 
processing of focus. SonyEricsson K700 uses 
the manner of enlarging the icon to represent 
the focus, while MIS uses a color chunk to 
represent the focus. 
When users and interface designers have the 
ability of modify cell phone interface, they can 
create different style interfaces according to 
different favors. Therefore, through the 
different design and idea, user can create 
different cell phone interface even if it is the 
same cell phone. Fig.9 shows the different 
menu styles on different days. 
   
(A) New year (B) The Dragon 
Boat 
Festival 
(C) Christmas 
Fig. 8 The Menu of SonyEricssonK700 of 
different day 
 
 Web-Based MIES 
The main differences between developing web 
application and windows application is that the 
web application is client/server architecture. 
Due to this architecture, the web applications 
which server provides no longer access the 
client resources freely just like the windows 
applications do because of the risk of safety. 
Therefore, the MIES has to be re-design to 
under this architecture, and provides the same 
functionality which windows-based MIES 
provides. 
Web-based MIES uses the C# programming 
language to write ActiveX Control component 
and deploy on the computer which has Internet 
Information Services (IIS) version 5.1 by 
co-operating with the technique of ASP .Net as 
shown in Fig. 9. 
 
Fig.9 Architecture of Web-Based MIES 
 
  
(A) Idle 
status 
(B) Menu 
status 
(C) List status 
SonyEricsson K700 cell phone interface 
   
(A) Idle 
status 
(B) Menu 
status 
(C) List status 
Simulate the MIE MIDL files using simulator 
