The fundamental outcome of changing deposition parameters is the variation of 
the delivering energy and momentum of the impinging ions and gas molecules onto 
the substrate. Since the incident ion energy is related to the mobility of the adatoms, 
the film microstructure may be strongly affected [10-12].In addition, the energy of the 
incoming ions may also influence the electrical resistivity, residual stress and hardness 
due to the increase of lattice defect by ion-peening [13]. 
DC reactive unbalanced magnetron (UBM) sputtering system is one of the 
popular coating systems for the deposition of high quality films of pure metals, metal 
nitrides, metal oxides, and metal carbides [14].In a previous research, nanocrystalline 
TiN films were successfully produced using UBM sputtering [9]. To continue the 
study of deposition process, UBM sputtering system is chosen in the present research 
to deposit thin ZrN films. The deposition conditions are based on the optimum 
conditions in the previous studies [15].Furthermore, owing to the development of 
micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS) and precision machinery, thin protective 
coatings, less than 0.5 µm in thickness, with high wear resistance and hardness, and 
special surface properties are in great demand. In the previous study [9], we found 
that the deposition rate decreases with increasing nitrogen flow rate under a constant 
deposition time. Since the film structure can be strongly related to the thickness, it is 
necessary to control the film thickness for better understanding the film properties. 
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of nitrogen flow rates on the 
structure, composition and mechanical properties of nanocrystalline ZrN thin film 
with a thickness close to 220 nm. 
2. Experimental procedures  
 In this study, a Mirrored-field Type II unbalanced magnetron (UBM) sputtering 
(STS-400) system was used to deposit the ZrN thin films. A rectangular zirconium 
target (99.9%) with dimensions of 248×130×10 mm3 was used.  The substrate 
materials were 304 stainless steels.  Prior to the coating process, the silicon 
substrates were ultrasonically cleaned in acetone and ethanol each for 5 minutes.  
After dried in a vacuum dryer, the substrate was immediately loaded in the deposition 
chamber. Before deposition, the substrates were gradually preheated to 300  while ℃
the chamber was simultaneously evacuated to 8×10-4 Pa (6×10-6 Torr) to avoid 
contamination during deposition process. In order to remove the surface oxide layer, 
the substrate was pre-sputtered by argon ions at a bias of -1000 V for 10 minutes. The 
ion current density was 0.049 mA/cm2 and the argon pressure was fixed at 0.8Pa 
(6×10-3 torr). Then, high purity argon (99.9995% in purity) and nitrogen gases 
(99.9995% in purity), were introduced into the chamber, using mass flow controllers 
which were calibrated to an accuracy within 2% to regulate both gas flows.  
Nitrogen gas flow rate was varied from 0.25 to 1.75 sccm, and argon gas flow rate 
was fixed at 15 sccm. The total gas pressure was fixed at 0.133 Pa (1×10-3 Torr) by 
adjusting the gate valve. The distance between the zirconium target and the substrate 
was 20 cm. The DC power supply of the zirconium target was operated at 0.9 A using 
constant-current mode, which means the target current density was 2.8 mA/cm2.  
During the coating process, the substrate ion current was simultaneously monitored by 
a digital multimeter. The substrate ion current density was ranged from 3.8 to 9.4 
mA/cm2 at a negative substrate bias voltage of 90 V. The deposition temperature was 
maintained at 380 , monitored using a thermocouple directly touching a mica sheet ℃
contacting on the backside of the substrate. The thickness of ZrN thin film was 
controlled at about 220nm in each run by adjusting deposition duration. The 
deposition conditions were adopted from the optimum coating conditions in our 
previous study [15].   
3.2. Deposition Rate  
The deposition rate with the different nitrogen flow rate is shown in Fig 2.  
During deposition process, the current of target is fixed at 0.9A for all the deposited 
conditions, which means that the same number of Zr atoms is sputtered from the 
zirconium target.  However, from decreasing deposition rate with nitrogen flow rate, 
it is obvious that the number of Zr atoms arrived at substrate surface decreases with 
increasing nitrogen flow rate.   
0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00 1.25 1.50 1.75
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
1.1
D
ep
os
iti
on
 ra
te
 (A
/s
)
Nitrogen flow rate (sccm)
 
Fig. 2 The deposition rate with respect to nitrogen flow rate. 
This disparity may be due to the incorporation of excess nitrogen molecules into 
the plasma. Since the nitrogen molecules have about the same ionization energy as 
that of argon atoms [16]. The ionized nitrogen molecules may enhance more 
secondary electrons excited from the cathode with increasing nitrogen flow rate.  
Consequently, more charged particles are in the chamber, which induces damage of 
specimen from re-sputtering. Fig 3 shows deposition rate verse substrate ion current 
density. It is seen that the deposition rate decreases with increasing substrate ion 
current density. This indicates the increasing extent of re-sputtering.   
0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0 1.1
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
N
/Z
r r
at
io
Deposition rate (A/s)
 
Fig. 4 The deposition rate with respect to N/Zr ratio. 
3.4. Effect of Ion Energy and Momentum 
 The main particle species in this sputtering process are Ar+, Zr and N2. The 
ionization rate of Zr and N2 are much lower compared with argon atom in the 
magnetron sputtering system. In other words, the most populous ion species in the 
sputtering chamber is Ar+, and consequently there is significant influence on Ar+ when 
nitrogen flow rate is varied.   
It has been commonly acknowledged that the energy and momentum delivery 
from the incident ions may substantially affect the structure of the deposited film. [18] 
Proper combinations of energy and momentum of the impinging ion species may 
enhance the mobility of the adatom to stable sites on the substrate surface and 
improve the crystallinity of the film.  On the other hand, the impingement of high 
energy particles may also induce radiation damage, and resputtering effect.   
equilibium sites, and consequently improving the packing factor. On the other hand, at 
high nitrogen flow rate, the excess momentum of the charged particles damages the 
film surface. This suggests that the packing factor of the ZrN films will decrease for 
those samples deposited at the high nitrogen flow rates.   
The lattice defects, phonons and impurity atoms may increase the electric 
resistivity of the ZrN film due to scattering of electrons. In this study, the resistivity of 
the films ranged from 34.6 to 271µΩ-cm, which is much higher than that of ZrN 
single-crystal film, 13.6 µΩ-cm [19]. This indicates that the ZrN films contain much 
higher defect density than that of the single-crystal film.  
Fig. 7 shows that resistivity decreases with increasing packing factor and levels 
off as the packing factor is larger than 0.7, which is consistent with our previous 
results [20].  Since low packing factor represents more lattice defects existing inside 
the film, it is reasonable that resistivity increases with decreasing packing factor. The 
resistivity is relatively high for the specimens deposited at 0.25 sccm and 0.50 sccm 
nitrogen flow rates. Since the ZrN phase exists at N/Zr ranging from 0.8 to 1.2, the 
first two specimens with N/Zr ratios less than 0.5 should be a mixture of ZrN and Zr.  
This may lead to a loose-packed film and thereby increasing the electrical resistivity.    
0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
R
es
is
tiv
ity
 (µ
Ω-
cm
)  
Packing factor
 
Fig. 7 The resistivity with respect to the packing factor 
4. Conclusions  
(1)  Nanocrystalline ZrN thin films were successfully produced using unbalanced 
magnetron (UBM) sputtering system at different nitrogen flow rates.  The grain size 
is less than 15 nm determined by X-ray diffraction using Scherrer's equation. 
(2)  The increase of nitrogen flow rate leads to increasing substrate ion current 
density and thereby decreasing deposition rate, which result in the increase of N/Zr 
ratio. 
(3)  The resistivity decreases with increasing packing factor to 0.7, and then the 
resistivity maintains a stable value.  
(4)  While altering the nitrogen flow rate in this study, little effect is shown on 
properties change such as texture coefficient, hardness, roughness, grain size, and 
