 2
 
目    錄 
 
目錄………………………………………………………………………………………………….2 
中英文摘要及關鍵詞……………………………………………………………………………….3 
報告內容…………………………………………………………………………………………….5 
參考文獻…………………………………………………………………………………………….13 
計畫成果自評……………………………………………………………………………………….14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4
計畫英文摘要 
Keyword: Butterfly laser module, Laser welding, Mode matching, Laser displacement meter, Post 
weld shift, Split-Dual-saddle clip 
A reliable and accurate joining process is one of the greatest challenges in the packaging of the laser 
modules using laser welding. The fiber alignment shift in joining process has a significant impact on the laser 
module packaging yield. Therefore, a detailed understanding of the effects of PWS on the fiber alignment 
shifts in laser-welded laser module packages and then the precise compensation of the fiber alignment shifts 
due to the PWS effects are the key topics in laser welding techniques for optoelectronic packaging 
applications. For measuring the field in lasers and fibers, It is necessary that construct the field mode of lasers 
and fibers by energy and phase distribution and investigate the mechanism of mode matching between laser 
and fiber. In this study, a mode field measurement for laser and fiber to realize mode matching between lasers 
and fibers is proposed. A Finite Difference Time Domain method is used to calculate the light transmission 
between laser and fiber. Combining the post weld shift and mode matching mechanism, the detail mechanism 
of coupling mechanism is more clear during laser module packaging. 
 The process of solidification shrinkage induced PWS is a nonlinear behavior and it is a difficult task to 
analyze it. Previously, the power losses in butterfly-type laser module packages due to PWS could be 
qualitatively corrected by applying the mechanical adjustment technique to the direction of the detected shift. 
By applying a plastic deformation on the welded components and by observing the corresponding coupling 
power variations, the direction and magnitude of the PWS may be qualitatively compensated. However, the 
welded component may be damaged due to apply a plastic deformation on the package in the mechanical 
adjustment process. Despite numerous studies on improving the fabrication yields of butterfly-type laser 
module packages using the PWS compensation in laser welding techniques, limited information is available 
for the quantitative and precise compensation of the PWS which can be useful in designing and fabricating 
high-yield butterfly-type laser module packages.  
In this work, a quantitative probing of the PWS in butterfly-type laser module package by employing a 
split-dual-saddle clip (SDSC) is proposed. The direction and magnitude of the PWS are determined by using a 
laser displacement meter (LDM). The PWS introduced by laser welding is compensated by applying the 
SDSC. 
This is a three-year proposal. This first year of program will study the construction of three dimensional 
position of fiber and design the split-dual saddle clip. In the second and third year, this program will focus 
on (1) the relationship between PWS of fiber and mode matching on coupling power, and (2) the 
controlling mechanism between PWS of fiber and relationship with mode matching. By the end of the third 
year, this three-year project will complete (1) the SDSC to improve the coupling power, and (2) the 
integration on package, measurement, and compensation on butterfly laser module. A determine notch 
geometry is proposed to guide the welding compensation in the specific direction and magnitude precisely. 
In comparison to the previous studies of PWS compensation by the well-known mechanical adjustment 
using the qualitative estimation and plastic deformation on the package, the advantages of using this novel 
SDSC are the quantitative and nondestructive compensations to the effect of the PWS on the fiber 
alignment shifts precisely in butterfly-type laser module packages. Therefore, the reliable and high-yield 
butterfly-type laser modules used in lightwave transmission systems can be developed and fabricated. The 
new high performance butterfly-type laser-diode packages with optimized optical-fiber lenses and new 
designed saddle-shape-clip fasteners will be carried out.  
 
 
 
 6
偏移, 使得蝶式雷射模組的耦光功率得報補償而回復到近似原始耦光功率。利用本計畫設計之構裝
製程、分離雙鞍形光纖扣件、焊後位移量測與補償平台，使自製幫浦雷射模組耦光效率與良率能達
到國際領先水準。 
 
二、 研究目的 
 
本計畫旨在建立近場雷射與光纖耦光偏移量測技術，並基於近場光場分佈分析，藉以分析雷射與
光纖耦光偏移及對耦合匹配機制之影響，配合分離雙鞍形扣件進行耦光偏移補償。本計畫同時利用
非軸對稱光纖透鏡，結合雷射與光纖近場光場，利用時域有限差分法(Finite-Difference-Time-Domain 
Method) (利用 Rsoft Fullwave與 FemSIM模擬軟體計算)建構不同光纖透鏡的形狀及模擬光纖與雷射
的耦合型態，藉以分析與研究光纖與雷射間耦合之波前匹配機制，並分析雷射與光纖耦光偏移時耦
光效率的變化關係，供給量化進行焊後位移補償之依據。。 
    在幫浦雷射模組構裝方面，建立非軸對稱光纖端面偏移量測平台以分析各種不同場形的雷射與非
軸對稱光纖偏移對耦合特性影響，利用特殊設計之高精度雷射測距儀可以量測非軸對稱光纖端面在雷
射焊接過程中偏移量之大小與方向，並在構裝過程中監控光纖偏移，配合模態匹配機制分析，並據此
配合分離雙鞍形光纖扣件以降低耦光偏移並進行量化焊後位移補償。 
    透過近場雷射與光纖耦光偏移量測技術，實際量測與分析雷射與光纖等主、被動光通訊元件近場
光場分佈，進一步了解雷射與光纖光耦合模態匹配機制及實際構裝耦光偏移之關係並進行補償，本研
究雷射與光纖耦光量化偏移量測與補償技術具有高度的技術與學術價值。同時基於相位與模態的分
析，建構光纖偏移量化量測平台可即時監視光纖偏移之大小與方向，並利用線上抽取之光學特性與光
纖偏移參數，可及時掌握光功率與光纖偏移關係，配合研發分離雙鞍形光纖扣件以降低耦光偏移及建
立量化銲後位移補償技術，對雷射與光纖透鏡功能近一步了解並透過光場與耦光偏移分析加以改善，
可幫助提升國內光通訊產業的技術研發能力，並提昇國內光通訊關鍵性零組件的自製率。 
 
三、 文獻探討 
 
（A） 國內幫浦雷射二極體研發，耦光及構裝技術的現況 
        早期國內幫浦雷射二極體研發主要在交大李建平教授與中華電信所合作，另外工研院電
光所在雷射之研發，已有相當好的成果，其雷射光功率可超過 300 mW已提供幫浦雷射來探討雷
射與光纖耦光。國內各大學與研究機構有關雷射與光纖耦光研究，主要在 1310 nm或 1550 nm通
訊波段以及幫浦之雷射光源，在光纖透鏡方面有四角錐形透鏡 8-9、圓錐楔形 10-11以及非軸對稱型
光纖透鏡 12-13，因此建立耦光偏移分析平台及研發分離雙鞍形扣件之幫浦雷射模組構裝補償技術，
可提昇國內關鍵模組之自製率。 
（B）國外幫浦雷射二極體研發，耦光及構裝技術的現況 
        國外幫浦雷射二極體研發相當成熟，包括日本、美國及歐洲均有很好性能的幫浦雷射二極
體及模組產品，同時雷射模組包括內加光纖光柵，使模組具有波長穩定特性 9。在光纖透鏡方面有外
加圓柱型光學透鏡 1-2，漸進式微透鏡 2-3，及楔型光纖透鏡 4-6。 
 
 8
幫浦雷射遠場之場型分佈為非圓形對稱之場形，當具有較大遠場場型長寬比的幫浦雷射與具有
圓形場型的平端光纖耦合時，這二者間的模態不匹配將造成嚴重耦光損失，因此需要將光纖頭端製
作成非軸對稱的光纖透鏡，使得幫浦雷射模態與光纖模態匹配以降低耦光損失。依據光束傳播場形
理論，欲增加遠場場型長寬比，光纖端面必須為非軸對稱光纖端面，其所形成之非軸對稱光纖端面
其長寬比與幫浦雷射遠場場形長寬比成正相關。因此在非軸對稱光纖端面與雷射的耦合構裝上將形
成不對稱的光纖偏移敏感度，需要特殊的構裝製程與光纖扣件來進行構裝，加上用雷射銲接構裝所
造成之耦光偏移機制複雜，因此構裝困難度極高。因此本計畫擬建立非軸對稱光纖端面偏移量測平
台以分析各種不同場形的雷射與非軸對稱光纖端面耦合特性，利用特殊設計之高精度雷射測距儀可
以量測非軸對稱光纖端面在雷射焊接過程中偏移量之大小與方向，並在構裝過程中監控光纖偏移。
配合模態匹配機制分析及光纖偏移監控，使光纖固定在雷射與光纖場型匹配的位置，可大幅提高耦
光效率。 
(2) 研究方法 
        擬達成光纖偏移監控，首先須量測光纖金屬套管位置，然後利用三維空間剛體運動位置計
算取得光纖透鏡偏移大小與方向。圖 2為光纖套管(Ferrule sleeve)三維空間剛體運動位置的示意圖，
其中 Z1與 Z2分別為高精度雷射測距儀量測參考平面位置，C1與 C2為參考平面中心。圖 3(a)-(d)為光
纖套管的幾何參數分析圖，因三維空間中剛體位置需要兩個定點座標來決定，取得兩個參考平面 Z1
與 Z2之光纖套管中心位置 C1與 C2，如圖 3(a)所示，C1與 C2座標則利用高精度雷射測距儀量測光纖
套管外表面到高精度雷射測距儀參考面之距離，取得 Z1與 Z2參考平面之光纖套管外表面輪廓，由
於光纖套管可能旋轉，因此外表面輪廓最一般形狀為橢圓形，如圖 3(b)所示，如此光纖套管位置即
被決定，並再利用光纖透鏡與量測點向量幾何關係即可計算光纖透鏡位置 O1，如圖 3(b)所示。實際
構裝光纖套管時，在取得雷射與光纖最佳耦光功率後，先量取構裝前光纖套管位置 C11與 C21並計算
得光纖透鏡位置 O01，如圖 3(c)所示，在構裝焊接後量取光纖套管位置 C12與 C22並計算得光纖透鏡
位置 O02，如圖 3(d)所示。經由空間向量計算可得 O02 O01向量即為偏移向量(包含偏移大小與方向)，
可由四個光纖套管偏移參數為 r、α、θ及 φ來表示，如 3(a)圖所示。 
        本實驗採用高精度雷射測距儀(Keyence公司)進行耦光偏移分析之主要感測器。非軸對稱光
纖透鏡位置量測，主要是以高精度雷射偵測頭與光纖套管距離的量測為基礎，進行三維空間剛體運
動位置計算，本實驗採用高精度雷射測距儀的量測精度為 20奈米，由於構裝空間相當有限，因此雷
射基座夾治具以及高精度雷射測距儀必須經過特殊設計以確保量測平台架設可行，其中涉及精度關
鍵為量測平台架設穩定度、振動問題、訊號取樣速率快慢，另外金屬套管表面平坦度與潔淨度也會
影響量測結果，因此針對平台架設的設計與加工精度潔淨度控制，可使量測精度與速度提升達到標
準。 
 
 
 10
(2) 研究方法 
        基於傳統光纖扣件與光纖套管的缺點，首先利用第一年三維空間剛體運動計算結果，研
發分離雙鞍形光纖扣件，如圖 4 所示，利用高精密夾具設計配合雷射及線切割加工法製作微小分
離鞍形扣件，由於是兩個分離的扣件，故可根據雷射與光纖套管位置調整焊接位置，以利高精度
雷射測距儀量測光纖透鏡位置。兩個光纖扣件焊點位置可較傳統光纖扣件大，因而降低焊後位移
對耦光偏移的影響，以提高耦光效率。在雙鞍形光纖扣件側面使用放電加工製作補償溝槽，利用
雷射鎚擊技術(Laser hammering)，可對構裝後之焊後位移進行補償。 
 
 
 
圖 4 分離雙鞍形光纖扣件三視圖及立體示意圖 
(3) 進行步驟 
1. 利用三維空間剛體運動計算結果設計適當之分離雙鞍形光纖扣件 
2. 利用高精密夾具設計配合雷射及線切割加工法製作微小分離鞍形扣件 
3. 根據雷射與光纖套管位置，實際進行調整分離鞍形扣件之焊接位置測試 
4. 配合高精度雷射測距儀量測光纖透鏡位置，實際進行分離鞍形扣件調整性測試 
5. 在雙鞍形光纖扣件側面利用放電加工製作補償溝槽，實際測試雷射鎚擊對焊後位移進行補償。 
 
五、 結果與討論 
 
1. 利用三維空間剛體運動計算結果設計適當之分離雙鞍形光纖扣件，如圖 5所示。 
 
 
 
補償溝槽 
前視圖 
上視圖 
右視圖
立體圖
 12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 8. 高倍數影像量測光纖頭端位置 
 
5. 在雙鞍形光纖扣件側面利用預提位移實際測試焊後位移補償，如圖 9所示。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 9. 實際測試雷射鎚擊對焊後位移進行補償 
 
    在計畫中原本的光纖頭端位移量測方式是利用高精度雷射測距儀，但因計劃經費補助不足，因此
改採高倍數影像量測法同樣可以達到預期效果，美中不足的是量測速度較慢與精度上的妥協。另外在
焊後位移補償方面也將溝槽補償修改為預提位移補償，亦可收到補償效果，但是對於模組的易造成裂
痕，使得可靠度較差。未來還是建議以高精度雷射測距儀量測光纖頭端位移方式，以及溝槽補償作為
焊後位移補償較為理想。 
 
 
 14
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
   ▓達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
第一年計畫已完成（A）高精度雷射測距儀量測分析與平台架設，（B）分離雙鞍形光纖扣
件設計與製作。因此目前可及時掌握光功率與光纖偏移關係，配合研發分離雙鞍形光纖扣件
以降低耦光偏移及建立量化銲後位移補償技術，對雷射與光纖透鏡功能近一步了解並透過光
場與耦光偏移分析加以改善，可幫助提升國內光通訊產業的技術研發能力，並提昇國內光通
訊關鍵性零組件的自製率。在計畫中原本的光纖頭端位移量測方式是利用高精度雷射測距
儀，但因計劃經費補助不足，因此改採高倍數影像量測法同樣可以達到預期效果，美中不足
的是量測速度較慢與精度上的妥協。另外在焊後位移補償方面也將溝槽補償修改為預提位移
補償，亦可收到補償效果，但是對於模組的易造成裂痕，使得可靠度較差。未來還是建議以
高精度雷射測距儀量測光纖頭端位移方式，以及溝槽補償作為焊後位移補償較為理想。本研
究結果已在學術期刊發表並且中華民國專利申請中。 
 
 1
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                     
日期： 99  年 4  月 21  日 
 
計畫編
號 
NSC   98-2221-E-020-001 
計畫名
稱 
分離雙鞍形扣件蝶式雷射模組構裝與補償之研究 
出國人
員姓名 許益誠 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立屏東科技大學 
生物機電工程系 
助理教授 
會議時
間 
99年4月5日 
至 
99年4月7日 會議地點 
日本/福岡 
會議名
稱 
(中文)第五屆農業與生物生產系統機電整合國際研討會 
(ISMAB) 
(英文) The 5th International Symposium on Machinery and 
Mechatronics for Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering 
(ISMAB) 
發表論
文題目 
(中文)側磨塑膠光纖感測器應用於微量蔗糖濃度檢測 
(英文) The Side-Polished Plastic Optical Fiber Sensor 
Applied to SucroseSolution Concentration Measurement 
 3
 
· Bioenergy and Renewable Energy (RE) 
· Biological Engineering (BE) 
· Biomechatronics and Robotics (BR) 
· Food and Processing Engineering (FE) 
· Food Safety (FS) 
· Information and Electrical Technology (IE) 
· Power and Machinery (PM) 
· Precision Agriculture (PA) 
· Sensor Technology (ST) 
· Structure and Environmental Technology (ET) 
· Systems Engineering (SE) 
· Waste Management (WM) 
· Other 
 
Plenary session有四場，演講題目與講員分別為： 
 
1. Low Carbon Green Growth and Agriculture Machinery in Korea. – 
Prof. Sung Chan Cho, President of KSAM ( Chungbuk National Univ., 
Korea) 
2. Using LED Artificial Light for Plant Cultivation in Taiwan. – Prof. 
Suming Chen, President of CIAM (National Taiwan Univ., Taiwan) 
3. A Stage of Package and Thinking in Precision Agriculture. – Prof. 
Sakae Shibusawa, President of JSAM (Tokyo Univ., Japan) 
4. Recent Progress in the U.S. and Global Food Safety. – Prof. Yen-Con 
Hung (The Univ. of Georgia, U.S.A. ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Side-Polished Plastic Optical Fiber Sensor Applied to Sucrose Solution 
Concentration Measurement 
 
Yi-Cheng Hsu *, Chih-De Hu  
 
Department of Biomechatronics Engineering, National Pingtung University of Science and 
Technology, Pingtung, Taiwan 
*TEL: +886-8-7703202 ext. 7008, Email: ychsux@mail.npust.edu.tw  
 
Abstract: In this research, a side-polished plastic optical fiber sensor based on the Evanescent 
field waveguide theory is proposed for concentration measurement of sucrose solution. The 
concentration range of sucrose solution is 0% to 41.7%. The refractive index range of sucrose 
solution is 1.333 to 1.403. The surface of the fiber is polished near to the fiber core region which 
has a good evanescent-wave response. The concentration of the tested sucrose solution can be 
detected by measuring the output light power from the fiber sensor. The fiber used in the 
experiment is multi-mode plastic optical fiber. Light source is high-power light emitting diode. 
Low power detector and optical power meter are also used in this study. The optical signal of 
the side-polished plastic optical fiber is also numerically simulated by commercial software 
FRED. The experimental and simulation results indicated that the optical signal is proportional 
to the refractive index and concentration of sucrose solution. Therefore, the low cost 
side-polished plastic optical fiber sensors with high yield and high performance used in 
measuring of the bio-samples may be developed and fabricated in the future. 
 
Key Words: Plastic Optical Fiber、Totally Internally Reflected Light、Side-Polished 
 
INTRODUCTION  
 
The general structure of the fiber is shown in Fig. 1. The fiber is essentially a cylindrical 
structure of axis symmetric optical wave guide from the axis to the radial outside. According to 
the different refractive index, the layers of fiber in radial direction are core, cladding and a 
protective shell coating. Optical fiber sensor is the use of optical waveguide produced by the 
light source cited to the detection area. The characteristics of light wave are sensitive to the 
physical properties changes of detection area, such as refractive index, temperature, 
concentration, strain, stress. Analyzing characteristics changes of light wave can determine the 
physical properties changes of detection area.  
The side-polished fiber and waveguide with the evanescent field theories has been focused 
on sensor application in recent years. The advantages of optical fiber as a sensor are not only a 
waveguide for light signal transmission but also providing total internal reflection for 
evanescent field application. Fig. 2 shows the optical phenomenon of total internal reflection 
and evanescent field. Light signals were transmitted mainly in the core with relatively higher 
refractive index. There are still some light signal loss in the interface between core and cladding. 
The signal loss is so called evanescent waves with an exponential decay. The evanescent wave 
filed in the relatively lower refractive index region is defined as evanescent field region. The 
parameter d is the penetration distance of evanescent wave. 
Generally speaking, penetration distance d is about one wavelength. The Maxwell's 
equations and Fresnel's reflection equations can deduce evanescent waves with an exponential 
decay beyond the interface not as the assumption of geometrical optics that the transmitting 
light completely disappeared. In this research, a multimode plastic fiber is used to perform a 
fiber sensor based on evanescent wave effect. The advantage of multimode plastic fiber are 
  
Figure 3 The side-polished fiber was carried out by fiber polishing system. 
 
 
Figure 4 Experimental configuration for measuring output light power. 
 
 
r: radius of cladding diameter
w: max width 
d: max depth 
 
Figure 5 Side-polished multimode plastic optical fiber sensor.  
 
The output optical power and corresponding refractive index is shown in Fig. 7. Fig. 8 is 
the simulated results. The horizontal axis represents sucrose concentration and the 
concentration range is from 0% to 41.7% and the corresponding refractive index range is from 
1.333 to 1.403. The vertical axis represents the output light power. The experimental results 
show the slope of side-polished plastic optical fiber is 0.31 mw / RIU and the standard deviation 
is 2.46×10-4mw. It leads the resolution of the sensor to 2.37×10-3 RIU. The simulation by FRED 
shows the resolution of fiber sensor is 9.91×10-4 RIU. The experimental and simulation results 
both indicated that the optical signal is proportional to the refractive index and concentration of 
sucrose solution.  
1.33 1.34 1.35 1.36 1.37 1.38 1.39 1.40
0.45
0.46
0.47
0.48
0.49
0.50
0.51
Po
w
er
(m
W
)
Refractive Indexx(RIU)
 0.5mm
 Linear Fit of Data
Y=0.74426X+B
R=0.99442
 
Figure 8 The simulated results. 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
 
The optical fiber sensor based on evanescent waves has extensively studied and developed. 
In this research, the fiber sensors fabricated by the side-polished techniques and the detecting of 
different refractive index of sucrose solution is measured by output light power. The 
experimental results show the slope of side-polished plastic optical fiber is 0.31 mw / RIU and 
the standard deviation is 2.46×10-4 mw. It leads the resolution of the fiber sensor determined as 
2.37×10-3 RIU. The simulation by FRED shows the resolution of fiber sensor is 9.91×10-4 RIU. 
The experimental and simulation results indicated that the optical signal is proportional to the 
refractive index and concentration of sucrose solution. Therefore, the low cost side-polished 
plastic optical fiber sensors with high yield and high performance used in measuring of the 
bio-samples may be developed and fabricated in the future. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] Chii-Wann Lin, Shi-Ming Lin, Ying-Tsuen Lion, 2002, The Fabrication of Fiber Surface 
Plasmon Resonance Microsensor for Biomedical Application, Institute of Biomedical 
Engineering N.T.U. 
[2] Wei-Te Wu, Chien-Hsing Chen, Tzu-Chien Chao, Wan-Yun Li, Wei-Chih Shen, 
Chung-Wei Cheng, Jaw-Luen Tang, Chun-Ping Jen and Lai-Kwan Chau, 2009, Novel 
D-type Fiber Optic Localized Plasmon Resonance Sensor Realized by Femtosecond Laser 
Engraving, the 5th International Congress on Laser Advanced Materials Processing. 
 
[3] Sheng–Hong Yu，2004，Fiber Optics Evanescent Wave Biosensor for Biomolecular 
Detection，National Yang-Ming University Institute of Biomedical Engineering Master 
Thesis. 
[4] Shinn-Fwu Wang，2004，D-type optical fiber biosensor，Institute of Optical Science, 
National Central University. 
[5] Jiu-Kai Tai，2007 ，A CASCADED FORM OF SIDE-POLISHED SPR FIBER USED 
TO ENHANCE SPR EFFECT，Thesis for Master of Science Institute of Electro-Optical 
Engineering Tatung University. 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：許益誠 計畫編號：98-2221-E-020-001- 
計畫名稱：分離雙鞍形扣件蝶式雷射模組構裝與補償之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 1 1 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
