積體電路雜訊偵測關鍵技術研究(II) 
The research of key circuit design techniques  
for noise detection in integrated circuits 
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-182-056 
執行期間：96年 8月 1日 至 97年 7月 31日 
主持人：周煌程 長庚大學 電子工程系 副教授 
一、 中文摘要 
本研究計畫的目的在於開發一訊號雜訊偵測
與量測電路，用以偵測訊號雜訊並找出訊號雜
訊大小(signal overshoots)，藉以判斷雜訊嚴
重程度。本研究提出的訊號雜訊偵測電路預期
具有無DC功率、高速、小面積、高解析度及
方便使用等創新特性。此外，此電路可直接用
於晶片內，可做為cell以built-in形式或者形成
陣列排放在core四周，透過wire來連接測試電
路中各點的訊號情形，可代替傳統以探針測點
的不便，並獲取訊號雜訊的分佈情形。透過訊
號雜訊偵測電路回饋的雜訊大小分佈資訊，對
於晶片測試中的除錯及可靠度分析幫助很
大。另外，對於改版設計時電源線及訊號線的
佈局規劃與電路擺置亦有所助益。 
 
英文摘要 
It is important to research and design 
noise detection circuits for disclosing 
the values of the real noise that an IC 
encounters in its operations. The main 
research topic of this project is devoted 
to innovative signal noise detectors with 
no DC power, high speed (GHz operation), 
small area, high resolution and easy to use. 
The proposed signal noise detector will be 
built as a standard cell that is easy to 
place at any position in the chip to obtain 
the signal noise distribution information. 
The peak values of signal noises will be 
investigated. 
 
二、 計畫的緣由與目的 
隨著積體電路(integrated circuit，IC)的製
程技術日益精進，目前使用 0.18μm或以下的
製程的 IC產品已經廣泛被運用﹕ 
(1)工作電壓由已往的 3.3 伏特降至 1.8 伏
特，甚至使用 1 伏特以下的低電壓。工作
電壓的降低，相當有利於減少 IC的功率消
耗。 
(2)通道變短，讓電晶體更快速的開關。電流
更快的通過，讓電路可以更快速的工作。 
(3)電晶體縮小，使得單位面積內電晶體密度
變高。高複雜度 IC 設計的發展，結合了
RF、類比及數位電路共同所組成系統整合
晶片(system-on-a-chip，SOC)，成功的減
少面積、功率消耗和成本，並提供更多的
功能。 
在上述的優點外，積體電路製程技術進步，也
產生了一些複雜的交互作用，伴隨而產生一些
問題，其中最大的問題在於訊號完整性
(signal integrity)。訊號完整性問題主要來
自雜訊的影響。尤其當製程技術進入深次微米
低功率以後，工作電壓下降，雜訊對訊號相對
影響力變大，雜訊免疫能力大幅降低。存在電
路中的雜訊卻會使得訊號完整性降低，進而造
成積體電路效能變差、功能發生錯誤或可靠度
大幅降低。 
積體電路中產生雜訊的原因可歸為三大類，分
別是電感、電容及電阻所造成的雜訊。電感性
雜訊主要由連到 pad 的 bonding wire 及電路
中的長金屬連線造成，電容性雜訊則由元件中
的寄生電容和導線間的耦合電容產生，至於電
阻性雜訊則是由導線和元件的微小電阻值所
造成。數位電路在切換時充放電造成瞬間大電
流產生，經過佈線和封裝等雜散效應，產生
圖三為本計畫實作中所提出的改良電路架
構，其電路基本的操作模式和傳統的峰值偵測
器類似，不過 
(1) 在此我們將 M1 電晶體的汲極端改成回
授到 Vin端，限制其充電電壓，如此可  
改善來不及關閉也不會造成電容電壓
值 Vc 超過 Vin 峰值的問題，重置電壓
可改為一偏壓，加速充放電時間。 
(2) 對於電容 C充過最大峰值的情況，利用
M1 汲極回授的方式已得到很好的改
善，但因為最大充電電壓受到了回授限
制，且回授延遲使 M1 來不及關，在雜
訊信號頻率很高時，在輸出電壓和欲偵
測最大峰值之間有一電壓差，又或者是
振幅很小時，電路無法反應，造成很大
的誤差，因此並聯了一小尺寸的 PMOS，
當 M1 導通時，使 Mco 也同時導通，補
償Vin因等效阻抗變小而電壓下降的問
題。 
 
(c) 訊號雜訊偵測器 
訊號 1凸波雜訊偵測電路 
 
 
圖四 訊號 1凸波雜訊偵測電路 
 
VDD為待測工作電壓源；RC負責將雜訊的輸入
訊號耦合至電路中，並將電壓偏壓到一個適當
的位準；mop1 ~ mop7為 N型輸入單級放大器、
mco為補償壓降 PMOS(以上八顆電晶體組成之
電路，令其名稱為 OP-N)。其中 mop6、mop7
為尺寸很小(相對於 mop4、mop5)之電晶體，其
閘極端互接，使放大器產生一力量小的閂鎖能
力，讓放大器對於較小的雜訊值較敏感並能感
測到。 
 
將四種分別偵測不同訊號雜訊的電路整理成
下表 
 
訊號 1凸波雜訊量測電路 RC 接 OP-N 
訊號 1凹波雜訊量測電路 RC 接 OP-P 
訊號 0凸波雜訊量測電路 2R 接 OP-N 
訊號 0凹波雜訊量測電路 2R 接 OP-P 
其中 RC代表 RC和 inverter並聯的電路，負責將雜訊
耦合到偵測電路中；2R 代表兩個電阻分壓的電路，將
雜訊分壓到適當的位準。OP-P 代表 PMOS 差動對放大
器，後面接 NMOS；OP-N代表 NMOS差動對放大器，後面
接 PMOS。 
 
(d) 電路模擬結果 
輸入雜訊信號由一衰退正弦波模擬，其頻率為
1GHz。其中 resetb為重置控制信號，每 10ns
重取樣一次。 
 
訊號 1凸波雜訊 
 
訊號 1凹波雜訊 
 
 
Circuits ,”IEEE JOURNAL OF 
SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 40, NO. 4, 
APRIL 2005. 
2. Ali Muhtarogl, Greg Taylor, and Tawfik 
Rahal-Arabi, “On-Die Droop Detector for 
Analog Sensing of Power Supply 
Noise,”IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE 
CIRCUITS, VOL. 39, NO. 4, APRIL 2004. 
3. Cecilia Metra and Luca Schiano, “Concurrent 
Detection of Power Supply Noise,”IEEE 
TRANSACTIONS ON RELIABILITY, VOL. 
52, NO. 4, DECEMBER 2003. 
4. M. W. Kruiskamp and D. M. W. Leenaerts, 
“A CMOS Peak Detect Sample and Hold 
Circuit,”IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON  
NUCLEAR SCIENCE, VOL. 41, Feb. 1994. 
5. Mehrdad Nourani, “Detecting 
Signal-Overshoots for Reliability Analysis in 
High-Speed System-on-Chips,”IEEE 
TRANSACTIONS ON RELIABILITY, VOL. 
51, NO. 4, DECEMBER 2002. 
6. H.-C. Chow and Z.-H. Hor, “A High 
Performance Peak Detector Sample and Hold 
Circuit for Detecting Power Supply Noise”, to 
be published in IEEE APCCAS 2008, 2008/12. 
7. 周煌程等, 積體電路電壓源雜訊偵測器, 
2007/03/01公開, 申請號095142672 
8. 周煌程等, 訊號源雜訊偵測器, 專利申請
準備中 
is a high voltage level “1” to make the capacitance “C” 
discharged to ground voltage. In the sample phase, the 
control signal reset is a low voltage level “0”. When the 
input voltage Vin is larger than the output voltage Vout, 
the amplifier’s output is a low voltage level “0”, the 
PMOS M1 turns on and it charges the capacitance C until 
Vin is equal to Vout. When Vin is less than Vout, the 
amplifier’s output is “1” and M1 turns off. The output 
voltage Vout is so sustained as the maximum value of 
noise voltage until the next reset phase begins. 
 
However, if the PDSH is directly used to detect the 
PSN in VDD, the amplifier’s (OP) input pair transistors 
would work in the linear region or even turn off. 
Therefore, this circuit has to be modified for the purpose 
of the PSN detection. 
 
Vin
reset
Vout
VDD
M1
C
t
Vin
Vout
t
Mreset
Fig. 3 Conventional PDSH circuit 
 
Fig. 4 PDSH timing diagram of operations 
 
III. Proposed PSN Detector Design 
 
A. The Proposed PDSH with Source Follower 
 
 Fig. 5 shows the improved circuit I proposed by this 
paper. The improved PDSH is modified with a source 
follower (SF) [2] to detect VDD overshoots. The SF is 
composed of two NMOS devices. The transistors mb1-
mb4 build up the bias circuit. It will provide the suitable 
bias for the transistor mop1 to operate in the saturation 
region. 
mb1
mop1
mop2 mop3
mop4 mop5
reset
C
VDD
Vout
M1
Mreset
Vin
mb2
mb3
mb4
reset
msf2
msf1
Vb09
VDDQ
VSSQ
 
Fig. 5  PDSH with source follower 
 
The used OP is a simple NMOS input differential pair 
amplifier, which properly works when the input voltage 
ranges from 0.75V to 1.65V. When the control signal 
“reset” is “1”, the VGS of mop1 is “0” and the OP turns 
off, then the capacitor voltage is reset to ground voltage. 
The power supply and ground voltages of this detector is 
provided by another pair which are assumed quiet and 
clean voltages VDDQ and VSSQ with less noise. 
 
The purpose of adding the SF before the PDSH is that 
the SF makes the noisy VDD shift a threshold voltage 
(Vth) downward and enables the OP to operate correctly. 
Here we design the SF to drop about 0.8V. The real “Vin” 
(noisy VDD with level shift) is 1.0V in Fig. 5 and the 
PDSH detector can operate. 
 
However, there exist some problems with this detector. 
The signals of PSN through the OP cause delay time. 
Besides, M1’s turn-on or turn-off also causes additional 
delay time. Following these reasons, when the detector 
detects the high speed noise signal, a significant error may 
arise. When the voltage value of noise is too large, the 
capacitance C will not have enough time to charge to the 
peak value. To increase the size of M1 will make the 
capacitance charging faster to hold the peak value.  But if 
the voltage value of noise is too small, as Vout is larger 
than Vin, M1 would be too late to turn off and the 
capacitor voltage will still charge over the maximum 
voltage value of VDD overshoots. These problems would 
limit the range and operation speed of the circuit. 
 
B. The Proposed PSN Detector 
 
In order to solve the above problems, the PSN detector for 
VDD overshoots is further improved and proposed in Fig. 
6. The transistors mb1 to mb4 form the bias circuit and 
mop1-mop7 form the OP. The SF is composed of two 
NMOS msf1 and msf2. It is different from Fig. 5 that the 
circuit is modified with the MOS mop6, mop7 and mco 
and the source of M1 fedback to Vin. The resetting bias of 
the holding capacitor is setup to the voltage “vb” to speed 
up the charging time. The purpose of the source of M1 
with feedback to Vin is that the capacitance C doesn’t 
       (a)  
Reset 
signal
       (b) 
 
Fig. 8 Simulation results (a) VDD overshoots detector  for 
random noises (b) VDD overshoots detector 
 
Fig. 9 shows the simulation results of the PSN detector. 
The input noise is assumed as a sine wave for simplicity 
and the frequency is 1GHz. The axis of X denotes the 
magnitude of the input noise from 7.5% VDD to 55% 
VDD. The axis of Y is Vout. Fig. 9(a) is the simulation 
results of VDD overshoots detector. Fig. 9(b) is the 
simulation results of VSS overshoots detector. Fig. 9(c) is 
the simulation results of VSS drop detector. Fig. 9(d) is 
the simulation results of VDD drop detector. 
 
 
Fig. 9(a) Fig. 9(b) 
 
Fig. 9(c) Fig. 9(d) 
Fig. 9 Simulation results of the PSN detector 
 
 Fig. 10 is the error output voltage of the PSN detector. 
The axis of X is the magnitude of the input noise from 
7.5% to 55% VDD. The axis of Y is the error voltage in 
percentage. When the range of magnitude of the input 
noise ranges from 10% to 45% VDD, the error voltage in 
percentage is well controlled less than 5%. The accuracy 
is therefore quite satisfactory. 
 
Fig. 10 The error voltage of the PSN detector in 
percentage 
 
V. Conclusion 
 
A new method to detect the power supply and ground 
noise (PSN) has been proposed in this paper. The 
conventional peak detector sample and hold circuit (PDSH) 
has been improved and applied to detect the PSN. The 
important feature of this proposed circuit is that the 
maximum overshoot or undershoot noise will be both 
detected and held in a holding capacitor. This 
consequence enables the next processing circuit to operate 
conveniently without further speed restriction. Based on 
the simulation results, the noise detector is verified able to 
detect the power supply and ground noise of 1 GHz with 
the magnitude from 10% to 45% VDD. The error voltage 
can be well controlled less than 5%. As compared to the 
prior art, both the detection range and speed are improved 
significantly. With small power and small area the 
proposed circuit is easily to be integrated in a chip to 
detect the noise magnitudes of different blocks. The 
obtained noise distribution can be further used for study of 
signal integrity or for debug and redesign purpose. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] G. De Geronimo, A. Kandasamy, P. O'Connor, “Analog Peak 
Detector and Derandomizer for High Rate Spectroscopy,” IEEE 
Nuclear Science Symposium Conference Record, Vol. 1, pp. 147-
150, Nov. 2001. 
[2]  M. Nagata, T. Okumoto, K. Taki, “A Built-in Technique for Probing 
Power Supply and Ground Noise Distribution Within Large-Scale 
Digital Integrated Circuits,” IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuits, 
Vol. 40, No. 4, pp. 813-819,  Apr. 2005. 
[3] N. Meherdad, A. R. Amir, “Detecting Signal-Overshoots for 
Reliability Analysis in High-Speed System-on-Chips,” IEEE Trans. 
Reliability, Vol. 51, No. 4, pp. 494-504, Dec. 2002. 
Vou
Vi
Reset 
signa
Digital Design、Mixed Signal Systems I、ADCs、Low Power Digital Circuits、
第四天的 Mixed Signal Systems II、Delta-Sigma Modulators I、II及 Logic 
Circuits等。 
 
二、與會心得 
本屆國際中西電路與系統會議是為電路與系統領域研究學者及業界專家的年度
技術交流盛會，依據主辦單位統計與報告，今年投稿論文數為 622篇，經過審查
後收錄其中 396篇。由於議程內容非常豐富，因此個人選擇議程中較感興趣的主
題場次，進行聆聽各國學者專家研究成果。藉由參與此次會議的機會，進一步掌
握電路與系統技術發展的趨勢，瞭解詳細技術內容，實在是獲益良多。 
 
此外，個人在此次研討會中的論文發表安排在 “Embedded Systems II”場次，
與會學者專家提出 3個問題討論，包括(1) 0.5V操作電壓使用時如何供應?;(2) 
電荷轉移放大器的設計問題;(3) 面積大小的及結果比較等。與會人員對於本論
文所提設計技術，相當感興趣，提出問題討論並給予建議，對於個人往後的研究
有相當大幫助。此外，本會議中部份論文的精彩內容，讓個人頗受啟發，實為受
益良多。 
 
三、建議 
    無。 
   
四、攜回資料 
    論文議程摘要一本及論文光碟一片。 
 
 1294 
pre-charged to half-VDD by the pre-charge and 
equalizer circuit N9-N11. At the same time, 
sub-bit lines (sense nodes) SBL and SBLB are 
pre-charged to half-VDD through N7 and N8, 
too. So, the boost capacitances MC1 and MC2 
have a large inversion capacitance at this 
pre-charge period. Then, the paths between 
BL/BLB and SBL/SBLB are isolated by turning 
off N7 and N8.  
After cutting off these paths, the boost signal 
BST rises from 0 to VDD. The sense nodes 
SBL/SBLB and internal nodes a and b are 
boosted up to a high voltage level about 0.62V 
which is higher than VDD. Therefore, the 
cross-coupled transistors N5 and N6 are turned 
off at this moment.  
When the word line is activated, a small 
voltage difference about 20mV is developed 
between bit lines (BL and BLB) because of the 
charge sharing operation on memory cells and 
bit line capacitances. The charge transfer action 
then begins by raising the charge transfer signal 
PSE. As like the cross-coupled charge transfer 
sense amplifier, the cross-coupled transistors 
terminate one charge compensation path 
between sense nodes and bit lines to assist the 
voltage separate speed in the charge transfer 
period.  
Furthermore, owing to the nonlinear C-V 
characteristics of MOS capacitance, MC1 and 
MC2 become smaller in their capacitance values 
when the voltages on sense nodes are dropped 
during the charge transfer period. This 
characteristic helps increase the voltage 
difference on sense nodes and accelerates the 
operation speed further. After a large enough 
voltage difference developed between SBL and 
SBLB, both sense amplifiers N-SA and P-SA are 
activated to pull the voltage difference to a full 
swing and the cell value is then read out. Finally, 
the restore signal RST rises to restore the bit line 
(BL) value to the memory cell. The read 
operation is then finished. 
The proposed charge transfer sense amplifier 
uses both the boost capacitance and the 
cross-coupled structure. It is expected that the 
combination of the boost capacitance and the 
cross-coupled structure will achieve a high 
charge transfer speed and a larger voltage 
difference after charge transfer. Besides, high 
voltage control signals and dual pre-charge 
levels are not required. 
 
 IV. Simulation results and comparisons 
Fig. 4 shows the voltage waveforms of present 
charge transfer sense amplifiers [2-4] and the 
proposed circuit, respectively, by HSPICE 
simulations in UMC 0.18um CMOS technology. 
The properties of MOS transistors in all circuits 
are all low threshold voltage devices which are 
generally provided in a sub-1V DRAM process. 
The used supply voltage is only 0.5V. Threshold 
voltages are 0.2V and -0.2V for NMOS and 
PMOS transistors, respectively. The cell 
capacitance Cs is 30fF and the bit line 
capacitance is 0.3pF. The capacitance ratio of the 
bit line to the memory cell is 10 which is a 
typical condition. Table I summarizes the 
simulation results of the present charge transfer 
sense amplifiers and the proposed charge 
transfer sense amplifier for comparison. Note 
that results of prior art [4] and this work are 
based on post-layout simulations. 
There are two comparison parameters we set 
