程式之模組性與擴充性：驗證方法與工具
Program Modularity and Extensibility: Methods and Tools
計劃編號 (project number)： NSC 97-2221-E-001-003-MY3
執行期限 (project duration)： 2008/08/01 — 2011/07/31
研究成果報告 (project report)
主持人：莊庭瑞 中央研究院 資訊科學研究所
共同主持人：陳恭 國立政治大學 資訊科學系
共同主持人：穆信成 中央研究院 資訊科學研究所
共同主持人：蔡益坤 國立臺灣大學 資訊管理學系
共同主持人：王柏堯 中央研究院 資訊科學研究所
PI: Tyng-Ruey Chuang, Institute of Information Science, Academia Sinica
Co-PI: Kung Chen, Department of Computer Science, National Chengchi University
Co-PI: Shin-Cheng Mu, Institute of Information Science, Academia Sinica
Co-PI: Yih-Kuen Tsay, Department of Information Management, National Taiwan University
Co-PI: Bow-Yaw Wang, Institute of Information Science, Academia Sinica
Abstract
In this report, we summarize the objectives
of this integral project, and report on the
preparation of the 2011 Formosan Summer
School on Logic, Language, and Computation
(FLOLAC 2011). We also provide a selected
list of publications which have been produced
in the academic year of August 2010 to
July 2011, and can be attributed in part to
this integral project and/or its five sub-projects.
Keyword: Modularity, Extensibility, Verified
Software, Program Property, Programming
Language.
1 Objectives of the Project
Modularity and extensibility in program lan-
guages and software systems have always been
very important issues. It is generally agreed
that the loss due to software errors can be
greatly reduced if bugs in software can be found
at program design time or compile time, i.e.,
before the software is actually executed. It
is now common practice to use formal meth-
ods (logic inference, program semantics, type
systems, model checking, verification methods,
program derivation, theorem proving, etc.) to
assure program correctness. However, to effec-
tively apply formal methods to software systems
consisting of massive amount of code, we must
reply on the modularity in the software we are
looking into, as well as the language constructs
for modularity in the programming language
under which the software is written. Further-
more, because the program properties we are
interested in being verified can be very different
under different application scenarios, the exten-
sibility of the formal methods we are employing,
as well as the degree of extensibility supported
in the programming languages under which the
software is written, are extremely crucial for the
success of formal methods.
The purpose of this integral research project
is to study and propose advanced modular
program specification methods from the per-
spective of programming languages and formal
methods. These advanced modular methods
will be able to specify user-defined program
properties, and to automate their verifications
• Automata-Theoretic Model Checking (6
hours)
Instructor: Yih-Kuen Tsay, Department
of Information Management, National Tai-
wan University
• Boolean Satisfiability and Its Applications
in Hardware Synthesis and Verification (15
hours)
Instructor: Chung-Yang (Ric) Huang and
Jie-Hong Roland Jiang, Department of
Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan
University
• Satisfiability Modulo Theories and Its Ap-
plications in Software Model Checking (9
hours)
Instructor: Yu-Fang Chen, Institute of In-
formation Science, Academia Sinica
.
The organizing committee for FLOLAC 2011
consists of Kung Chen (National Chengchi Uni-
versity), Tyng-Ruey Chuang (Academia Sinica
and National Taiwan University), Shin-Cheng
Mu (Academia Sinica and National Taiwan Uni-
versity), Yih-Kuen Tsay (National Taiwan Uni-
versity), and Bow-Yaw Wang (Academia Sinica
and National Taiwan University). Tyng-Ruey
Chuang and Yih-Kuen Tsay are coordinating
FLOLAC 2011 logistics, with help from Miss
Shao-Chuan Chang at Academia Sinica on lo-
cal arrangements.
We admit around 45 students to FLOLAC
2011, and maintain the continued success of the
FLOLAC series of summer school.
3 Selected Publications
In this section we provide a selected list of pub-
lications which have been produced in the aca-
demic year of August 2010 to July 2011, and
can be attributed in part to this integral project
and/or its five sub-projects.
1. Kung Chen, S.C. Weng, J.Y. Lin, M.
Wang, S.C. Khoo. Side-Effect Localization
for Lazy, Purely Functional Languages via
Aspects. Accepted by Higher-Order Logic
and Symbolic Computation. 2011.
2. Tyng-Ruey Chuang and Hui-Yin.
Structure–conforming XML Document
Transformation Based on Graph Homo-
morphism. Submitted. 2011.
3. Shin-Cheng Mu, Yu-Han Lyu, and Aki-
masa Morihata. Constructing Datatype-
generic Fully Polynomial-time Approxi-
mation Schemes Using Generalised Thin-
ning. In 6th ACM SIGPLAN Workshop on
Generic programming. September 2010.
4. Shin-Cheng Mu and Jose´ Nuno Oliveira.
Programming from Galois Connections. In
12th International Conference on Rela-
tional and Algebraic Methods in Computer
Science. May 2011.
5. Shin-Cheng Mu and Akimasa Morihata.
Generalising and Dualising the Third List-
homomorphism Theorem. In 16th ACM
SIGPLAN International Conference on
Functional Programming. September 2011.
6. Yun-Yan Chi and Shin-Cheng Mu. Con-
structing List Homomorphisms from
Proofs. In 9th Asian Symposium on
Programming Languages and Systems.
December 2011.
7. Yih-Kuen Tsay, M.-H. Tsai, J.-S. Chang,
and Y.-W. Chang. Bu¨chi Store: An Open
Repository of Bu¨chi Automata. Y.-K.
Tsay, M.-H. Tsai, J.-S. Chang, and Y.-
W. Chang In 17th International Confer-
ence on Tools and Algorithms for the Con-
struction and Analysis of Systems. March-
April 2011.
8. M.-H. Tsai, S. Fogarty, M.Y. Vardi, and
Yih-Kuen Tsay. State of Bu¨chi Comple-
mentation. In 15th International Confer-
ence on Implementation and Application of
Automata. August 2011.
9. Yu-Fang Chen, Edmund M. Clarke,
Azadeh Farzan, Fei He, Ming-Hsien Tsai,
Yih-Kuen Tsay, Bow-Yaw Wang, and Lei
3
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/12/26
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 總計畫
計畫主持人: 莊庭瑞
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-001-003-MY3 學門領域: 程式語言與軟體工程
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
於台灣舉辦 The 9th Asian Symposium on Programming Languages and Systems 
(APLAS 2011) 以及 
The 1st International Conference on Certified Programs and Proofs (CPP 
2011) 。 
會議網址分別為：  
  
http://flolac.iis.sinica.edu.tw/aplas11/  
http://formes.asia/cpp/  
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
