  
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
使用波形編碼之脈衝反相基頻技術用於對比劑灌流區之偵測 
Detection of contrast perfusion using pulse-inversion fundamental technique 
with coded waveforms 
 
計畫編號：NSC 94-2218-E-011-010 
執行期限：94 年 10 月 1 日至 95 年 10 月 31 日 
主持人：沈哲州    國立台灣科技大學電機系 
 
一、中文摘要 
 
超音波微氣泡對比劑會隨著入射聲波
進行非線性的震盪，因此微氣泡對正負入
射脈衝產生的回音信號在相加之後會有明
顯的基頻信號存留而一般的人體組織則沒
有這樣的特性，故脈衝反相基頻技術在對
比劑偵測上有很好的效果。在本研究中我
們探討了不同編碼發射波形下脈衝反相基
頻技術的對比劑偵測能力，結果發現揪聲
以及含直流成份的編碼波形均會造成背景
組隻區的脈衝反相基頻信號上升而無法提
升對比偵測能力，因此有適當頻寬的高斯
波形比較適合於脈衝反相基頻影像使用。 
 
關鍵詞：脈衝反向基頻技術、編碼發射、
對比劑偵測、 非線性影像 
 
Abstract 
 
    The pulse-inversion (PI) technique 
involves two firings with inverted waveforms. 
When the returning echoes from the two 
firings are summed, the residue signal is 
limited to even-order harmonics for tissue. 
However, when the returning echoes are 
from microbubbles, the fundamental signal is 
not completely cancelled because the 
reaction of the bubbles under compression is 
different from that under rarefaction. Thus, 
with the application of pulse-inversion 
technique, the fundamental signal has proven 
useful to enhance the contrast detection. In 
this study, we investigated the performance 
of PI fundamental imaging using various 
coded transmit waveforms. For chirp 
excitation, imperfect pulse compression 
decreases the contrast because it increases 
the residue fundamental signal emanating 
from tissue. In addition, asymmetrical 
waveforms with DC noticeably increase the 
tissue fundamental signal. From these results, 
it is concluded that the use of coded 
excitation is undesirable in PI fundamental 
imaging and that the waveforms should 
contain no DC component. Furthermore, the 
transmit waveform needs to be appropriately 
windowed in order to reduce spectral leakage. 
Therefore, a Gaussian pulse with the pulse 
length determined by the signal-to-noise ratio 
of the imaging system is generally optimal 
for PI fundamental imaging. 
 
Keywords: Pulse-inversion fundamental 
technique, coded excitation, contrast 
detection, nonlinear imaging. 
 
二、緣由與目的 
 
Ultrasonic contrast agents have been 
used to enhance the ultrasonic backscattered 
signal from blood [1]-[3], with encapsulated 
microbubbles being employed most often. 
The acoustic impedance mismatch between 
blood and air results in the microbubbles 
 approximating the nonlinear properties of 
water. To obtain the sum signal in the PI 
technique, two simulations were performed 
to obtain sound fields corresponding to the 
pair of inverted pulses. 
 
C. Experimental setup of PI fundamental 
imaging 
Fig 1 shows a schematic diagram of the 
experimental setup that was used to verify 
the efficacy of the proposed technique. An 
arbitrary function generator was used to 
generate the desired transmit waveform. The 
transmit waveform was then sent to a power 
amplifier to drive a 2.25-MHz focused 
transducer. The fractional bandwidth of the 
transducer is 80 %. The transducer had a 
diameter of 29 mm and was geometrically 
focused at 70 mm. A gelatin-based ultrasonic 
phantom with uniform distribution of glass 
beads was used as a speckle-generating 
object. A tubular void was fabricated inside 
the phantom as a microbubble container. The 
focal zone of the transducer was located at 
the container for optimal signal sensitivity. 
Levovist® prepared according to the 
manufacturer’s instructions was injected into 
the container by a syringe. The Mechanical 
Index (MI) at the focus is limited to below 
0.3. Note that correlation coefficients 
between the first echo (from bubbles) and 
subsequent echoes were used to evaluate 
bubble destruction. A three-axis stepper 
motor system was used to position the 
transducer. The received signals were then 
sent to an ultrasonic receiver for 
pre-amplification. Finally, an 
analog-to-digital converter was used to 
digitize the signal at 12-bit resolution and a 
sampling rate of 100 Msamples/s.  
  
四、結果與討論 
 
We investigated the efficacy of using 
chirp excitation in PI fundamental imaging. 
A 2-MHz Gaussian chirp pulse was used to 
stimulate a bubble in simulations. The –6-dB 
fractional bandwidth of the chirp pulse was 
80%. A Gaussian pulse with the same center 
frequency and bandwidth as the chirp signal 
was also simulated for comparison. Results 
shows the PI fundamental signal from the 
chirp excitation is noticeably lower than that 
from a regular Gaussian pulse. Pulse 
compression is another important issue 
related to the performance of the coded 
excitation used in PI fundamental imaging, 
since any imperfection in pulse compression 
results in incomplete cancellation of the 
tissue background signal and degrade the 
contrast-to-tissue ratio (CTR) Fig 2 
illustrates the tissue spectra of the chirp 
excitation before and after pulse compression. 
As shown in the left graph of Fig 2, the 
fundamental signal is effectively canceled in 
the PI sum before pulse compression. 
However, the right graph demonstrates that 
the fundamental signal in the sum 
significantly increases when the pulse 
compression is included. 
The effects of asymmetry in the transmit 
waveform were also explored. Two 
parameters of the transmit waveform were 
investigated: duty cycle (the ratio of the 
duration of the positive pressure to the entire 
period) and magnitude ratio (the ratio of the 
peak amplitude in rarefaction to that in 
compression). The main idea is to make the 
positive and negative parts of the excitation 
waveform differ in order to enhance the PI 
fundamental signal from microbubbles. We 
first consider the duty cycle, two examples of 
which are shown in Fig 3, both with a 
fundamental frequency at 2 MHz. For the 
pulse with a 20% duty cycle, the bubble is 
compressed rapidly and expands slowly in 
the positive pulse; whereas in the negative 
pulse, the bubble expands rapidly and is 
compressed slowly. However, for the pulse 
with a 50% duty cycle, the bubble is 
compressed and expands at the same rate. To 
simulate a real driving pulse, the frequency 
response of the transducer was also included. 
Fig 3(b) shows the spectra of the echoes in 
the PI technique when using a transducer 
with a fractional bandwidth of 80%. The 
intensity of the PI fundamental signal (i.e., at 
2 MHz) is significantly higher for a duty 
cycle of 20% than for one of 50%, which 
