will require a lot of time. Fortunately, a good 
summary index of the overall benefit is the total 
wirelength, as other factors such as interconnect 
delay, buffer insertion requirement, number of metal 
layers, power consumption, etc. are all related to 
it. However, the effect of through-silicon via (TSV) 
area overhead on the wirelength has been largely 
overlooked. In this research project, we have 
successfully derived a TSV-aware mathematical upper 
bound on the wirelength benefit of placing a circuit 
in 3-D. It is distinct from the existing works on 3-
D-wirelength prediction that use stochastic 
approaches based on Rent＇s rule. The novelty of our 
approach is that one does not need to carry out time-
consuming place-and-route many times under different 
3-D configurations to compute the expected 3-D 
wirelength benefits of a given circuit. Hence, the 
designer can use it to quickly evaluate different 
potential 3-D configurations of a new design with 
different number of layers, TSV size, area 
utilization, TSV density, etc. before making well-
informed design decision. For a set of IBM placement 
benchmarks scaled to the 32 nm process, we show that 
3-D integration cannot help to reduce the wirelength 
under current TSV technologies. 
英文關鍵詞： 3-D integrated circuit (3-D IC), 3-D wirelength 
benefit, through-silicon via area overhead, placement
 
II 
 
一、中英文摘要 
 
中文摘要 
近來三維積體電路在國際半導體產業裡引起極大的注意。為了支持整合密度改善
的進度，三維晶片技術被承認為“超越摩爾定律＂的先驅。它已被證明在減少面
積、減少互連延遲、促進系统性能、降低功率消耗和促進整合異構程序上有很大
的潛力。除此之外，它通常被稱作為減少橫向線長的一種手段。為了獲得三維積
體電路的潛在好處，現有的電子設計自動化工具必須增添新的三維設計能力。首
先，一間積體電路公司在決定從二維轉到三維積體電路設計時要問的一個重要問
題是預期的好處將會有多大。這裡有太多需要花大量時間去比較的因素。幸運
地，整體好處的一個代表性指標是總線長，因其他的指標如連線的延遲、緩衝器
嵌入需求、金屬層的數目、功率消耗等全都和它息息相關。然而矽穿孔的面積對
線長的影響有很大程度上被忽略。在本研究計劃中，我們已成功地推導出一個考
慮到矽穿孔面積的數學上限，它是用在估算把電路作三維堆疊時的線長優勢。它
跟之前存在的一些基於 Rent 規則的推測方法去作三維線長預測的作品是不同
的。我們的方法的獨特之處是它不需要在不同的三維配置下作多次費時的元件放
置和繞線程序，便可輕易地計算出該電路預期的三維線長優勢。因此，設計者可
利用此功具來快速評估一個新設計在不同的層數、矽穿孔的大小、面積利用率及
矽穿孔密度下的優勢，然後作出最理想的設計決定。在採用一組擴展到 32 奈米
製程的 IBM 電路放置標準下，我們展示出三維整合在目前的矽穿孔製程下對減少
線長並沒有幫助。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
二、前言 
Lately there has been intense interest in 
3-D ICs in the semiconductor industry. 
It is evidenced by the various industrial 
consortiums and alliances [1]-[2] formed 
to drive the standardarization of 3-D 
integration with concerted efforts to 
accelerate its adoption. 3-D integration 
is being hailed as a “beyond Moore” 
driver which promises to provide further 
increase in integration density. 
Semiconductor foundry giant TSMC 
said that it intends to begin commercial 
production of 3-D ICs in 2012 [3]. 
A 3-D IC is made up of an IC stack with 
very short vertical interconnections 
between adjacent dies by means of 
through-silicon vias (TSVs). There are a 
lot of potential advantages to go 3-D 
including smaller footprint, reduced 
interconnect delay, increased 
functionality, higher system 
performance, and lower power 
consumption. Moreover, heterogeneous 
technologies can be comfortably 
integrated in a die stack. One can choose 
the most suitable process to manufacture 
each die to optimize the cost and 
performance. The simplest example is 
stacking memory and CPU. 
Through-silicon via is the enabling 
technology for 3-D ICs. Thinned dies 
are stacked together in a 3-D IC and 
inter-die connections are realized by 
means of TSVs. Using TSVs, very short 
vertical interconnections can be made 
between two adjacent dies in a die stack. 
These short vertical interconnections are 
not limited to the peripheral but can be 
made within the die area. Different ways 
have been proposed to create the TSVs. 
For the TSV-first approach, wafer 
processing starts with TSV creation and 
is done by the foundry. For the 
TSV-middle approach, TSVs are created 
after the transistor but before back end 
of line by the foundry. For the TSV-last 
approach, TSVs are created after back 
end of line by the assembly house. See 
Figure 1. 
 
Fig. 1. (a) Via-first TSVs. (b) Via-last 
TSVs. 
 
TSV diameter may range from tens of 
microns down to nearly a micron [7]. 
Though the smallest TSV diameter 
claimed is about 1 micron, there are still 
many manufacturing and reliability 
challenges in making TSVs with small 
diameter and low height-to-diameter 
ratio, which requires extremely thin dies. 
These challenges make it hard to get 
good yield. Filling TSVs without voids 
is difficult even for diameter of 5 to 6 m 
[8]. Besides, the thermo-mechanical 
stress caused by TSVs is known to 
severely impact the carrier mobility of 
nearby devices [9], [10]. So, there needs 
to be a keep-out zone around a TSV. As 
3 
 
can be diminished and made comparable 
with that of standard cell, 3-D 
integration may help reduce the total 
wirelength but the potential reduction is 
less than what most people expected in 
the past. 
 
三、研究目的 
3.1 Need for Core 3-D EDA Tools 
Despite of the existence of some early 
3-D EDA research works in the 
literature including 3-D placement and 
floorplanning [18]-[23], they have a 
common pitfall. They had an implicit 
assumption that the TSVs could be made 
extremely small. While they typically 
tried to minimize the usage of TSVs, 
they neglected the impacts of the 
physical size of the TSVs in a 3-D 
layout. However, it has become evident 
that the TSV area overhead is actually 
non-negligible in 3-D ICs and will 
remain so in the foreseeable future. 
TSV dimension and TSV separation 
cannot be made too small owing to the 
manufacturing and reliability challenges 
associated with TSVs. It was noted that 
TSVs of 5 to 6μm are difficult to fill 
without voids due to the significant 
difference in the coefficients of thermal 
expansion for copper and silicon [8]. 
Moreover, a TSV landing pad larger 
than the TSV is usually required for 
bonding alignment [24] which further 
limits the TSV density. Finally, a 
keep-out area from devices is typically 
recommended considering the impact of 
TSV thermo-mechanical stress on the 
carrier mobility of nearby devices [9], 
[25]. As a result, we lose device area 
whenever a TSV is used. The 
non-negligible TSV area overhead not 
only negatively impacts the horizontal 
wirelength but can limit the TSV usage. 
Moreover, 3-D placement and 
flooplanning have to be made 
TSV-aware. 
 
3.2 Is 3-D Good for My Design? 
Not every circuit will benefit equally 
from 3-D implementation. For example, 
a recent experimental study found that 
no wirelength benefit could be obtained 
from 3-D design for a group of 
microprocessor designs when TSV area 
overhead was taken into account [27]. 
IC designers want to tell whether 3-D 
transition for a specific circuit is 
worthwhile or not. They want the 
capability to quickly analyze the 
tradeoffs of different 3-D integration 
configurations of an individual circuit 
for making specific design decision. It 
would be too time-consuming to study 
the tradeoffs of different 3-D integration 
configurations by performing a 
placement for each configuration. 
Unfortunately, currently there is no 
available prediction tool that can help in 
this aspect. 
 
Our research work is aimed at filling the 
gap for the desire of a benefit prediction 
tool of 3-D integration. At first glance, 
5 
 
time-consuming to study the tradeoffs of 
different 3-D integration configurations 
by performing a placement for each 
configuration. Unfortunately, none of 
the existing works can help. 
 
四、研究方法 
4.1 Problem Formulation 
The input is a circuit netlist N. The user 
parameters are the intended number of 
layers for 3-D integration, the target area 
utilization μ  of each layer (i.e., the 
percentage of area occupied by standard 
cells and TSVs), the TSV size av 
(including keep-out zone), and the 
percentage of die area ρ  to be 
occupied by TSVs. The goal is to predict 
the potential wirelength benefit of 
placing the given circuit under the 
intended 3-D configuration over its 
optimal 2-D placement. 
 
4.2 Proposed Approach 
 
Fig. 2. Front-to-back bonding. 
 
In this section, we derive a theoretical 
upper bound on the wirelength benefit of 
placing a given circuit in 3-D compared 
to a good 2-D placement. The notations 
that we use in our analysis are listed in 
Table I. In our discussion below, we 
assume that the TSV cell area includes 
the keep out zone required by a TSV. 
We assume that front-to-back bonding 
(see Fig. 2) is used. In other words, 
TSVs will occupy some area in the 
upper layers but not the first layer. 
 
 
Fig. 3. Construction of 2-D layout 
based on a given 3-D layout. 
 
Suppose we have a 3-D layout of a 
circuit with layers that satisfies whatever 
required constraints like cells of the 
7 
 
 
Let ρ be the average percentage of area 
occupied by TSV for the upper m – 1 
layers, i.e., 
 
By substituting (6) into (5) and 
rearranging, we get 
 
Let β be a lower bound of the ratio of 
the wirelength along x–direction in any 
upper layer to the average over both 
directions and all layers, i.e., 
 
Typically, the wires are evenly 
distributed among the layers and in both 
directions. Thus, β is close to 1 in 
practice. Based on ρ1 = 0, (8) and (6), 
we get 
 
Let nc be the total number of standard 
cells and ac be the average area of one 
standard cell in the circuit. The total die 
area of 3-D layout can be expressed as 
both m × WH and (ncac + Σmi=2ρiWH)/μ. 
Hence 
 
By substituting (6) and rearranging, 
 
As W ≤ H, (10) implies 
 
Based on Jensen’s inequality [14] 
 
By substituting (6) into the inequality 
above, we have 
 
Based on ρi-1ρi ≥ 0 for all i, (9)–(11) and 
(12), we can upper bound L2D in (7) as 
below 
 
As , we get 
 
Therefore 
 
As L2D ≥ L*2D, so 
 
and 
 
Hence, the wirelength benefit of 3-D 
over a good 2-D layout is 
9 
 
count in a design depends on ρ, the 
proportion of die area occupied by TSV 
cells in the upper layers. In Table III, we 
report the increase in die area, total 
number of TSVs, and wirelength benefit 
upper bound for each circuit when ρ = 
10% (i.e., the ratio of the TSV cell 
occupied area to the standard cell 
occupied area in the upper layers is 1 : 6 
as μ = 70%). It can be seen that all 
circuits yielded a negative wirelength 
benefit when placed in 3-D. In 
otherwords, the total wirelength of 3-D 
integration is actually worse than 2-D 
integration. This is because the TSV 
cells will take up silicon real estate and 
increase the separation of cells on the 
same layer. We also note that although 
the ratio of the TSV cell occupied area 
to the standard cell occupied area is 
already 1 to 6, the number of TSVs used 
in each case is still much less than the 
minimum cut size of a 4-way 
partitioning of the circuit. So, we tried 
setting the value of ρ for each circuit 
according to the 4-way partitioning cut 
size by hMetis [17] and report the new 
results in columns 3 to 5 of Table IV. It 
can be seen that the ratio of the TSV cell 
occupied area to the standard cell 
occupied area in the upper layers (ρ : (ρ 
- μ)) rises to 4 : 3 on average which 
represents a huge overhead. As a result, 
the 3-D total die area is increased to 1.78 
times the 2-D die area on average. But 
the upper bound on wirelength benefit of 
3-D integration remains negative for 
most cases. 
Second, we predict what would happen 
if the TSV cell size can be diminished to 
1×1. Again we assume the value of ρ for 
each circuit is set according to the 4-way 
partitioning cut size. The results are 
shown in the last three columns of Table 
IV. The ratio of the TSV cell occupied 
area to the standard cell occupied area in 
the upper layer (ρ : (ρ - μ)) is only 2 : 33 
on average. So, there is only a modest 
increase in total die area compared to 
2-D layout. The upper bound on 
wirelength benefit of 3-D integration 
becomes positive for all cases. In other 
11 
 
Creates 3D Integrated Circuit (IC) 
Initiative”, GSA News, Nov. 3, 2010. 
http://www.gsaglobal.org/news/ 
[2] “SEMATECH, SIA and SRC team to 
establish new collaborative program for 
enabling 3D ICs”, I-Micronews, Dec. 9, 
2010. http://www.i-micronews.com. 
[3] “TSMC announces 3DIC Chip 
Technologies using TSVs”, 
I-Micronews, Dec. 10, 2010. 
http://www.i-micronews.com. 
[4] J. W. Joyner, R. Venkatesan, P. 
Zarkesh-Ha, J. A. Davis, and J. D. 
Meindl, “Impact of three-dimensional 
architectures on interconnects in 
gigascale integration,” IEEE Trans. Very 
Large Scale Integr. (VLSI) Syst., vol. 9, 
no. 6, pp. 922–928, Dec. 2001. 
[5] A. Rahman and R. Reif, 
“System-level performance evaluation 
of three-dimensional integrated 
circuits,” IEEE Trans. Very Large Scale 
Integr. (VLSI) Syst., vol. 8, no. 6, pp. 
671–678, Dec. 2000. 
[6] R. Zhang, K. Roy, C.-K. Koh, and D. 
B. Janes, “Stochastic wire-length and 
delay distributions of 3-dimensional 
circuits,” in Proc. IEEE/ACM ICCAD, 
2000, pp. 208–213. 
[7] G. Van der Plas et al., “Design issues 
and considerations for low-cost 3-D 
TSV IC technology,” IEEE J. 
Solid-State Circuits, vol. 46, no. 1, pp. 
293–307, Jan. 2011. 
[8] D. Lammers, “Preparing for 3D IC 
Stacking,” Syst.-Level Design Newsletter, 
2010. [Online]. Available: 
http://chipdesignmag.com/sld 
[9] A.-M. Corley, “Design challenges 
loom for 3-D chips,” IEEE Spectrum, 
Feb. 2010 [Online]. Available: 
http://spectrum.ieee.org 
[10] A. P. Karmarkar, “Performanace 
and reliability analysis of 3D-integration 
structures employing through silicon via 
(TSV),” in Proc. IEEE Int. Reliab. Phys. 
Symp., 2009, pp. 682–687. 
[11] D. Noice and V. Gerousis, 
“Physical design implementation for 3D 
IC – Methodology and tools,” Invited 
Talk at Int. Symp. Phys. Design, 2010 
[Online]. Available: 
http://www.ispd.cc/slides/slides10/4_02.
pdf 
[12] D. H. Kim, S. Mukhopadhyay, and 
S. K. Lim, “TSV-aware interconnect 
length and power prediction for 3D 
stacked ICs,” in Proc. IEEE Int. 
Interconnect Technol. Conf., 2009, pp. 
26–28. 
[13] C. J. Alpert, “The ISPD98 circuit 
benchmark suite,” in Proc. ACM ISPD, 
1998, pp. 80–85. 
[14] J. Jensen, “Sur les fonctions 
convexes et les inégalités entre les 
valeurs moyennes,” Acta Mathematica, 
vol. 30, pp. 175–193, 1906. 
[15] N. Viswanathan, M. Pan, and C. 
Chu, “FastPlace: An efficient multilevel 
force-directed placement algorithm,” in 
Modern Circuit Placement – Best 
Practices and Results, G.-J. Nam and J. 
Cong, Eds. New York: Springer, 2007, 
pp. 193–228. 
[16] M. Pan, N. Viswanathan, and C. 
Chu, “An efficient and effective detailed 
 6
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：101 年 10 月 30 日 
一、參加會議經過 
This was the first time the PI attended FPL. FPL is the first and largest conference covering the rapidly 
growing area of field-programmable logic. During the past 20 years, many of the advances achieved in 
reconfigurable architectures, applications, design methods and tools have been first published in the 
proceedings of the FPL conference series. Its objective is to bring together researchers and industry from all 
over the world for a wide ranging discussion on FPGAs, including applications, advanced electronic design 
automation (EDA), novel system architectures, embedded processors, arithmetic, and dynamic 
reconfiguration. 
 
二、與會心得 
The technical program included keynote talks, full paper presentations, and poster paper presentations. The 
program had two/three parallel tracks every day. The first keynote talk was kind of unusual, since it was given 
計畫編號 NSC 100－2220－E－007-088 
計畫名稱 快速三維積體電路設計空間探索: 預測與優化(I) 
出國人員
姓名 麥偉基 
服務機構
及職稱 副教授 
會議時間 
 100年 9月 5日
至 
 100年 9月 7日 
會議地點 Chania, Greece 
會議名稱 
(中文) 
(英文) International Conference on Field Programmable Logic and 
Applications 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 
(英文) Simultaneous Constrained Pin Assignment and Escape 
Routing for FPGA-PCB Codesign 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/30
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 快速三維積體電路設計空間探索：預測與優化(I)
計畫主持人: 麥偉基
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-007-088- 學門領域: 積體電路及系統設計
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
3rd Place: IEEE CEDA 2011 PATMOS Timing Analysis Contest 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
