行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
界面反應對熱電模組銲點特性與熱電效能之影響研究 
Effects of interfacial reactions on sold joint characteristics and performance of 
thermoelectric modules 
計畫編號：NSC 94－2221－E－007－051 
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人     :廖建能 國立清華大學材料科學工程研究所 
計畫參與人員：李京樺 國立清華大學材料科學工程研究所 
陳文進 國立清華大學材料科學工程研究所 
 
中文摘要 
熱電發電可將廢熱及不同來源之環境
熱能轉換成乾淨之電能，是一極具吸引力之
節能方案。此外，熱電致冷(thermoelectric 
refrigeration)具有微型化及主動冷卻的優
點，亦對於解決日趨嚴重之高密度積體電路
元件的散熱問題產生莫大的吸引力。一般而
言，在傳統熱電模組中熱電材料通常透過銲
料與金屬導線(銅或鎳)相連結。大部分熱電
領域之研究都著重在提升熱電材料的熱電
優值(thermoelectric figure-of-merit)，或致力
於模組結構設計的最佳化，以達到元件最佳
效能。然而卻極少文獻探討銲料與熱電材料
間的界面反應，以及其對熱電模組效能之影
響。本計畫主要研究碲化鉍系列熱電材料與
錫－銀－銅、錫－鉛等合金銲料間的界面反
應，觀察不同銲料與熱電材料界面生成化合
物的微結構與成分。並探討其對銲點接觸電
阻之影響。最後，我們亦利用電腦模擬技術
分析熱電模組的電流、熱流及溫度分佈情
形，探討銲接反應對組裝之熱電模組效能之
影響。 
關鍵詞：熱電效應、銲接、接觸電阻、界面
反應 
Abstract 
Thermoelectric power generation is 
considered to be an attractive option for 
harvesting waste heat and environmental 
thermal energy from various sources.  
Besides, thermoelectric refrigeration, which 
provides an active cooling solution for highly 
compacted integrated circuits, appears to be 
very attractive to microelectronic industry as 
well.  In general, thermoelectric elements in 
typical thermoelectric modules are attached to 
Cu or Ni metallization by soldering techniques.  
Most of thermoelectric studies are mainly 
focused on devising new thermoelectric 
materials of high figure-of-merit or 
optimization of module design for high 
performance thermoelectric devices.  
Nevertheless, the literatures related to 
interfacial reactions between solder and 
thermoelectric elements and their impacts on 
characteristics of thermoelectric modules are 
very limited.  In this study we investigate the 
interfacial reactions between Bi-Te based 
thermoelectric materials and various 
Sn-Ag-Cu and Sn-Pb solder alloys.  The 
microstructure and compositions of the 
interfacial intermetallic compounds formed at 
the solder/thermoelements and its impact on 
the contact resistivity of the solder joints are 
explored. Moreover, the thermal and electrical 
simulations on the thermoelectric modules are 
carried out to explore the effect of soldering 
reaction on the performance of the assembled 
thermoelectric modules. 
Keywords: thermoelectric, soldering, contact 
resistance, interfacial reaction  
1. 前言 
隨著石油價格居高不下與油源在未來
將逐漸枯竭，尋找替代能源與再生能源遂成
一迫切的工作。熱電效應可將熱能直接轉換
成電能，對於人工廢熱、環境熱源如太陽能
與生物熱能之利用具有莫大的吸引力。除了
發電應用之外，另一重要應用領域則為熱電
致冷。透過電能的驅動能產生主動致冷的效
果。一個完整的熱電模組包含大量成對的 p
型與 n 型熱電材料端腳 (thermoelectric 
legs)、連接用的金屬導線與電極以及模組兩
端兼具絕緣與導熱的陶瓷基板等[1]。由於熱
電材料大多為半導體材料，與金屬電極間的
接觸電阻不小，使用銲接技術不僅提供結構
上的連結，另一方面亦有助於接觸電阻與熱
阻的降低。隨著熱電模組微小化，使用的熱
 
圖三：不同銲料在熱電材料表面的潤濕情形 
(2) 熱電材料/銲料界面反應研究： 
圖四所示為不同合金銲料與 p型及 n型
熱電材料經銲接反應後界面微結構之 SEM
影像。由圖中可發現 Sn-Pb 銲料在兩種熱電
材料上所形成的介金屬層明顯較薄(<1 μm);
而且在 p型材料上的介金屬層比在 n型材料
上厚，特別是 Sn-Ag-Cu 銲料/p 型熱電材料
上所形成的介金屬層明顯厚非常多 (>10 
μm)。，在此一差異明顯和銲料與熱電材料
的成份有明顯的關係。分析 Sn-Pb 銲料與熱
電材料界面介金屬層的成份發現其主要為
Pb1-xSnxTe 相。Sn-Pb/p-type 系統的 x 值約為
0.7～0.8，Sn-Pb/n-type 系統的 x 值則約為
0.8～0.9。而在 Sn-Ag-Cu 銲料系統的主要生
成相則是 SnTe。一般而言，Bi2Te3 或 Sb2Te3
會與 Sn 或 Pb 反應生成碲化物。但 Bi 溶解
進入熔融銲錫將抑制 Sn 與 Te 的反應特性
[9]，因此 n 型熱電材料(富鉍)的經銲接反應
後的介金屬層會比 p 型熱電材料(少鉍)薄。 
 
圖四：不同銲料/熱電材料系統界面微結構
(a)Sn-Pb/p-type;(b)Sn-Pb/n-type;(c)Sn-Ag-Cu
/p-type; (d)Sn-Ag-Cu/n-type 
針對 Sn-Ag-Cu 銲料/p 型熱電材料上所
形成非常厚的介金屬層作進一步分析，發現
在 SnTe 相與 p 型熱電材料間有一區域，依
據 Sb-Sn-Te 三元相圖與成份分析結果推測
可能是 SnTe-SbSn-Sn 三相區。隨著銲接反
應時間加長，主要變厚的是 SnTe 層。因此
可合理推測此一中間區域可能扮演有助於
SnTe 相的生成的先驅者(precursor)角色，在
短時間內即可生成相當厚的介金屬層。而在
n 型材料方面則因為不含 Sb 元素，所以在
相同銲接溫度與時間條件下，並無法生成如
此厚的 SnTe 介金屬層。  
 
圖五：Sn-Ag-Cu 銲料/p 型熱電材料介金屬
層成份分析 
(3) 熱電材料/銲料接點電阻量測： 
表一所示為不同銲料與熱電材料系統
之接點接觸電阻率。由表中可發現，Sn-Pb
銲料所形成的銲點接觸電阻率比相對應的
Sn-Ag-Cu 銲料銲點略高，而在 p 型熱電材
料上的銲點接觸電阻率又比相對應的 n 型
材料銲點高，分析原因如下。首先在 Sn-Pb
銲料所形成的銲點界面的介金屬相為
Pb1-xSnxTe。一般而言，SnTe 的載子濃度極
高，電阻率低。但隨著 Pb 含量的增加，電
阻率會隨之明顯增加[10]。因此 Sn-Pb 銲料
所形成的銲點接觸電阻率較高。而在 p 型材
料上的Pb1-xSnxTe相(x=0.7~0.8)的Pb含量亦
比 n 型材料上的 Pb1-xSnxTe 相(x=0.8~0.9)
高，所以接觸電阻率亦顯得較高。至於在
Sn-Ag-Cu 銲料銲點方面，雖然介金屬層較
厚，但由於電阻率極小，因此其接觸電阻率
反而比Sn-Pb銲料所形成的銲點接觸電阻率
還來得低。綜而言之，銲料銲點的接觸電電
阻率與銲料/熱電材料界面生成之介金屬相
的成分與厚度有密切之關係。厚度大且具高
電阻率的介金屬相將導致高接觸電阻，進而
影響熱電模組的效能，此將於下一節說明。 
oun
cti
me
and
g, Na
ere us
e the
sured
y shal
uride-
330 A
ved M
resistivity of nickel-plated bismuth telluride-based thermoelements
−5 −6 2 5
solder and at 250°C for Sn–4Ag–0.5Cu solder, respectively. When
te Le
0.00 ©solder-jointed with Sn–Pb alloy is around 10 to 10  cm . The
plated nickel layer serves as a diffusion barrier that prevents inter-
diffusion and chemical reaction between the solder and thermoele-
ments. Buist et al. have measured the contact resistivity of 1–2
 10−4  cm2 for bare bismuth telluride-based thermoelements sol-
dered with Bi–Sn alloy and 5–10  10−5  cm2 for nickel-plated
thermoelements soldered with Sn–Pb alloy.6 Nevertheless, their
work did not provide a detailed insight into the origin of the contact
resistance for different thermoelement/Cu soldered junctions. Alieva
et al. have investigated the electrical properties and microstructure
of the interfaces between Bi0.5Sb1.5Te3 Bi2Te2.7Se0.3 and
Bi–Sn-based alloys with various Pb, Cd, and Sb ingredients.7 They
found that theinterfacial compounds were mainly tellurides, such as
CdTe, PbTe, and SnTe, and the contact resistivity of various sol-
dered junctions varied from 10−4 to 10−5  cm2 at room tempera-
ture. However, the interfacial reaction between bismuth telluride-
based compounds and solder alloys and the effect of interfacial
the solder was melted, the samples were attached to the molten
solder and remained still for 1–2 s before being removed from the
hot plate.
The electrical contact resistance of the thermoelement/Cu sol-
dered junctions was measured by a bipolar four-probe method. Four
tungsten probes were in contact with both sides and top surface of
the sample as shown in Fig. 1. First, we applied a pulse current I
with alternating polarity via probes A and B and measured the volt-
age drop V across probes C and D. If the current switching fre-
quency is fast enough 50 Hz to keep the sample in an adiabatic
condition during the transition, the voltages measured under the “+”
and “−” current polarity are
V+ = I xA + Rc + STCD 2
V− = − I xA + Rc + STCD 3Effect of Interfacial Comp
Resistivity of Soldered Jun
Telluride-Based Thermoele
Chien-Neng Liao,*,z Ching-Hua Lee,
Department of Materials Science and Engineerin
Two different solder alloys, Sn–37Pb and Sn–4Ag–0.5Cu, w
ments with copper. SnTe and Pb1−xSnxTe were identified to b
soldered junctions, respectively. The contact resistivity mea
thickness and composition of interfacial compounds. The stud
alloy systems to improve the contact property of bismuth tell
© 2007 The Electrochemical Society. DOI: 10.1149/1.2749
Manuscript submitted April 8, 2007; revised manuscript recei
Thermoelectric coolers have been extensively used to cool mi-
crosensors and optoelectronic devices due to the advantages of min-
iaturization and short response time.1-3 Typical thermoelectric cool-
ers TECs are made of a number of p- and n-type thermoelements
which are jointed to copper conductors by soldering reaction and
arranged in a square array between two ceramic plates. Some sol-
ders such as Sn–Bi, Sn–Pb, and Sn–Ag alloys are commonly em-
ployed in assembling TECs. The electrical contact resistance of sol-
dered junctions, in general, is negligible in comparison to the total
resistance of thermoelements in typical TECs. However, the contact
effect may not be ignored when short or thin-film-type thermoele-
ments are used in high-power TECs. The maximum cooling effi-
ciency of TECs depends on the thermoelectric figure-of-merit FoM
of thermoelements. The higher the thermoelectric FoM, the better
cooling performance the TEC can achieve. By considering the elec-
trical contact effect, the effective FoM of the thermoelements Zeff
is given by4
Zeff = Z
1
1 + c/l
1
where Z, , and l are thermoelectric FoM, resistivity, and length of
thermoelements, respectively, and c is the contact resistivity of sol-
dered junctions. The soldered junctions of c =10−5  cm2 lead to
a 6% decrease in FoM for the regular 1.6 mm thick thermoelements
 = 10−3  cm but an almost 33% reduction in FoM for 200 m
thick ones.
Bismuth telluride-based compounds are the best known thermo-
elements for TEC applications. It has been reported that the contact
Electrochemical and Solid-Sta
1099-0062/2007/109/P23/3/$2* Electrochemical Society Active Member.
z E-mail: cnliao@mx.nthu.edu.twd Formation on Contact
ons Between Bismuth
nts and Copper
Wen-Jin Chen
tional Tsing-Hua University, Hsinchu 30013, Taiwan
ed to joint p- and n-type bismuth telluride-based thermoele-
major interfacial compounds for the Sn–Ag–Cu and Sn–Pb
is around 10−4 to 10−5  cm2, which depends on both the
l lead to the effective strategy for choosing appropriate solder
based thermoelectric coolers.
ll rights reserved.
ay 22, 2007. Available electronically June 19, 2007.
compounds on electrical contact properties have yet to be studied
thoroughly. An in-depth understanding of the soldering reaction and
the interfacial compounds would help in choosing the appropriate
solder alloys and diffusion barriers, if needed, for TEC assembly. In
this study we have devised a bipolar probing method in measuring
the contact resistance of the p- and n-type bismuth telluride-based
thermoelement/Cu junctions soldered with Sn–37Pb and
Sn–4Ag–0.5Cu alloys, respectively. This investigation mainly aims
at exploring the correlation between electrical contact resistivity and
interfacial compounds formed at different thermoelement/Cu sol-
dered junctions. The influence of solder constituents on the compo-
sition and electrical properties of the interfacial compounds is also
explored.
Both p- and n-type bismuth telluride-based compounds were ob-
tained from a commercial supplier Taicang TE Cooler Co., China.
The compositions of the compounds were identified to be p-
Bi1−xSbx2Te3 x  0.75 and n-Bi2Te1−xSex3 x  0.04–0.07
by an energy-dispersive spectroscopy EDS technique. These ma-
terials have a typical electrical resistivity of 10−3  cm. The ther-
moelement ingots were cut into a long bar 1.5  3  10 mm in size
using a diamond saw. To obtain a high-quality soldering surface, the
specimens were polished to remove surface oxide, if any, and then
cleaned consecutively with acetone, isopropyl alcohol, and deion-
ized water in an ultrasonic bath. A 25 m thick copper foil was
rinsed in a water-soluble flux MEC W-2348, MEC Taiwan Co.,
Taiwan and put on a hot plate that was maintained at the soldering
temperature with a variation of ±1°C. Two commercially available
solder balls 760 m in diameter Accurus Scientific, Taiwan were
used to joint the specimen and the copper foil at 210°C for Sn–37Pb
tters, 10 9 P23-P25 2007
The Electrochemical Society
P23where , S, and A stand for the electrical resistivity, Seebeck coef-
ficient, and cross-sectional area of the bismuth telluride specimen,
SnTe is known to have a high level of nonstoichiometric defects
1020–1021 cm−3 which are mainly doubly ionized vacancies at Sn
P25Electrochemical and Solid-State Letters, 10 9 P23-P25 2007and SnTe should be more thermodynamically stable than Sb2Te3
and Bi2Te3 in the bismuth telluride-based compound/solder system.
It is hence suggested that bismuth telluride-based compounds would
dissolve into the molten solder and react with Sn or Pb by forming
telluride compounds during the soldering reaction. The formation of
Pb1−xSnxTe compound in the Sn–Pb soldered junction is because
PbTe and SnTe can form a pseudo-binary solid solution.13
Besides the dissimilar interfacial compounds for different solder
alloys, the distinct Bi and Sb contents in the p- and n-type thermo-
elements are also believed to affect the formation kinetics of inter-
facial compounds during soldering reaction. The n-type material has
an approximate Bi/Te atomic ratio of 2:3, while the p-type material
Bi/Sb/Te = 0.5:1.5:3. By assuming the same amount of telluride
compound formation, the n-type material would have more Bi dis-
solving into the molten solder than the p-type material. Indeed, it
has been reported that the SnTe compound growth rate would de-
crease with increasing Bi concentration in the molten Sn–Bi solders
for a piece of Te immersed in the molten solder.14 The Bi dissolution
effect explains why the n-type material soldered junctions have thin-
ner interfacial compounds than the corresponding p-type junctions.
Nevertheless, the vigorous telluride formation at the p/SnAgCu
junction may not be merely related to the reduced Bi dissolution
effect. Figure 4 shows the EDS linescan results of the p/SnAgCu
junction with a step of 3 m. An intermediate region with substan-
tial Sb content is found between the p-type thermoelement and the
SnTe compound layer. According to the isothermal Sb–Sn–Te ter-
nary phase diagrams,15 SnTe phase would first precipitate from liq-
uid Sn in the very tin-rich domain at 250°C. The SnTe region shown
in Fig. 4 seems to have a slight excess of Sn, indicating the mixture
of solidified Sn and SnTe phases in the region. With increasing
dissolution of Sb and Te in the molten solder, a SnTe–SbSn–Sn
liquid three-phase zone is also expected, which is reflected by the
existence of the intermediate region. By increasing the soldering
reaction time at 250°C, we have found that the intermediate layer
did not grow significantly, while the SnTe layer grew in a rather fast
manner. The results suggest that SbSn is very likely to play a pre-
cursor role in SnTe compound formation during the soldering reac-
tion. The correlation between Sb and SnTe compound growth will
be a subject of future study.
Figure 4. EDS linescan results of the p/SnAgCu soldered junction with a
step of 3 m.sites, and hence a high concentration of hole carriers is expected.
Pb1−xSnxTe compound has a similar p-type conduction except that
its hole concentration decreases with increasing Pb content. In the
Pb1−xSnxTe compound Pb atoms tend to occupy Sn vacancy sites
and behave like electronic donors. With the x value of Pb1−xSnxTe
varying from 1 to 0, the hole concentration decreases monotonically
from 1.6  1020 to 3.1  1018 cm−3, while the electrical resistivity
increases from 1.25  10−4 to 2.5  10−3  cm.16 Therefore, the
semiconductor-like Pb1−xSnxTe compound would raise the contact
resistivity of the soldered junction more markedly than the metallic
SnTe compound. It explains why the p/SnPb junction has a higher
contact resistivity than the p/SnAgCu junction, even though the lat-
ter has a much thicker interfacial compound. Besides, we also found
that the p/SnPb junction is more electrically resistive than the
n/SnPb junction mainly because the interfacial compound of the
former is thicker and has higher Pb content. It is reasonably con-
cluded that the Pb-contained interfacial compound may cause high
contact resistance for the thermoelement/Cu soldered junctions.
Therefore, Pb-free solders such as Sn–Bi or Sn–Ag–Cu alloys are
more favored options than Pb-contained solders in terms of electri-
cal contact consideration. Otherwise, an additional diffusion barrier
would be required to inhibit the formation of resistive Pb-contained
interfacial compounds.
In summary, we have measured the electrical contact resistivity
of different bismuth telluride-based thermoelements/Cu soldered
junctions with Sn–37Pb and Sn–4Ag–0.5Cu alloys. SnTe and
Pb1−xSnxTe have been identified to be the major compound phases
for the Sn–Ag–Cu and Sn–Pb soldered junctions, respectively.
Pb1−xSnxTe would raise the contact resistivity of the soldered junc-
tions more significantly than SnTe. The different Bi/Sb composi-
tions of bismuth telluride-based thermoelements are believed to af-
fect the growth rate of the interfacial compounds and the contact
resistivity of the soldered junctions accordingly.
Acknowledgments
This work was supported by the National Science Council of the
Republic of China through grant no. NSC 95-2221-E-007-051.
National Tsing-Hua University assisted in meeting the publication costs
of this article.
References
1. D. McMullan and M. Oliver, J. Phys. E: Sci. Instrum., 1, 1255 1968.
2. K. Matsumoto, H. Shirahata, and T. Fujioka, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., 19, 2187 1980.
3. V. Semenyuk, in Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Thermoelec-
trics, International Thermoelectric Society, p. 631, Montpellier, France 2003.
4. G. Min and D. M. Rowe, Solid-State Electron., 43, 923 1999.
5. O. J. Mengali and M. R. Seiler, Adv. Energy Conversion, 2, 59 1962.
6. R. J. Buist and S. J. Roman, in Proceedings of the 18th International Conference
on Thermoelectrics, International Thermoelectric Society, p. 249, Baltimore, MD
1999.
7. T. D. Alieva, B. S. Barkhalov, and D. S. Abdinov, Inorg. Mater., 31, 178 1995.
8. S. W. Liang, Y. W. Chang, C. Chen, Y. C. Liu, K. H. Chen, and S. H. Lin, J.
Electron. Mater., 35, 1647 2006.
9. Y. Huang and R. F. Brebrick, J. Electrochem. Soc., 135, 486 1988.
10. Y. Huang and R. F. Brebrick, J. Electrochem. Soc., 135, 1547 1988.
11. A. E. Abeken, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells, 73, 391 2002.
12. N. P. Gorbachuk, A. S. Bolgar, V. R. Sidorko, and L. V. Goncharuk, Powder
Metall. Met. Ceram., 43, 284 2004.
13. K. J. Linden and C. A. Kennedy, J. Appl. Phys., 40, 2595 1969.
14. C. N. Chiu and S. W. Chen, The Minerals, Metals & Materials Society 136th
Annual Meeting and Exhibition, Orlando, FL 2007.
15. A. Stegherr, in Handbook of Ternary Alloy Phase Diagrams, P. Villars, A. Prince,
and H. Okamoto, Editors, p. 13495, ASM International, Materials Park, OH 1994.
16. M. Orihashia, Y. Nodab, L. D. Chena, T. Gotoa, and T. Hiraia, J. Phys. Chem.
Solids, 61, 19 2000.
