 2
solution. So we believe that “Idea convergence” is to capture from disorder ideas and to organize the 
meaningful sequence (so called “story of design”) that is regarded as the final design outcome in the 
design stage we are interested, and the initiation for other design decision convergences. Therefore, 
the objective of this study is to explore and define a convergent method over the idea generation based 
on the mechanism of storytelling. In order to achieve this goal, experiment and analysis are conducted 
and described in details in the sessions below.  
2. Literature Reviews 
Design convergence is complex in terms of its problem space. Based on the representation and the 
approach towards the solution, two main domains in this research are DIM (for representation) and 
storytelling (for mechanism).  
2.1. DIM 
DIM (Dynamic Idea Map) is a way to describe the behaviors and thinking patterns of designers during 
the brainstorming sessions. The fundamental element of DIM is called Idea Entity (IE). In addition to 
the simple ICF representation: (Issue, Concept and Form) adapted by (Oxman, 2004), each IE contains 
four elements (ICF + Prefer). The associations between each pair of IE are based on the linkages and 
form a large map called Idea Map. (Lai and Chang, 2009) Following internal/external interplay with 
IEs, these maps are then generated. 
2.1.1. DIM Elements 
(1) Attributes of Idea Entity 
The basic element of DIM is called IEs (Idea Entities) that constitute the knowledge for role interplay 
of design. Each IE is comprised of four attributes: Issue, Concept, Form and Prefers. (Lai and Chang, 
2006) The brief descriptions of these four attributes are: 
z Issue: design problem that will describe the problem for a domain issue. 
z Concept: abstract design concept, which contains domain concept vocabularies. 
z Form: the actual product that will direct to one domain concept vocabulary and media 
presentation. 
z Preference: designer feels the IE preference value. 
(2) Linkages of IEs 
Each pair of IEs is linked via three linkages: similarity ( ), contrast ( ) and contiguity ( ). 
[as shown in FIGURE 2] . Besides the design knowledge, DIM includes different of agent entities for 
distributive collaboration for design production. 
(3) Agent Entities  
Agent entities are assigned to different sub-tasks that are decomposed from a specific design task. 
According to different design situations, these agent entities with specific design knowledge 
collaborate together to generate design ideas and links. 
 
 4
(2) Middle of story: this act is before the climax. By elaborating small debris as the signals to guide the 
design ideas that will incremental lead to the big ending. Similar to description of common sense, 
the relation among roles and tedious events that will intricate the development of story. 
(3) End of story: this act is climax and resolution of story. When middle the story, the climax is often 
the spot that will invoke emotional arousal of reader and provide an unthinkable solution towards 
the problem projected at the beginning. Climax has the characteristics of unexpected transition and 
a turn-around solution. 
2.2.3 Storytelling for storyteller 
After a story was created, everyone would become a storyteller. We tell a story by our own way. In 
addition to writers tell their stories via words, there are different media also make the audiences’ 
emotion to up and down with story. For example, picture books, comic books, animations, movies, 
television dramas, stage plays, or even just communication.  
No matter what media storytellers use, they create virtual or real images in the audience’s 
imagination in order letting audience immerse the world and inspire their emotion further. Storytellers 
use their own way or skill, like verbal tool (narrator’s voice, character voices, singing, sound effects) 
and nonverbal tools (facial expression, eye contact, gesture, body language and so on). (Moore, 1999)  
2.3. SUMMARY 
Idea Entities and the generated DIM present the design representation for testing our convergent 
exploration. Interplay mechanism frames the framework for the emergence of story. The structure as 
well as the mechanism of story are reviewed and adapted as the metaphor for developing our 
convergent mechanism.  
3. The Experiment 
With the reviews above, we further investigate the interactive behaviors of convergent process during 
the brainstorming. An experiment is conducted and observation/interview methodology is used for 
retrieving the concept behind the scene. Besides, protocol analysis is a useful methodology for 
exploring the understanding of design behaviors (Ericsson and Simon, 1993). Through the process of 
encoding, recording and data analysis, the design behaviors of designers can be comprehended. Based 
on the methodology, this research applies think aloud and conceptual sketches to understand design 
behavior of the convergent thinking. 
3.1. PARTICIPANTS 
Three 3rd-grade architecture college students who are equipped with basic architecture training and 
familiar with DIM and group brainstorming mechanism. These students are coded as A, B and C. 
 6
Through translation, encoding and information analysis of protocol analysis, two findings are 
unleashed during the experiment. One is the preferences of IEs in the sequence will affect participant’s 
decision on interplay. Second is participant tends to select a key IE as the major climax on the 
sequence. After that, participant will pick any other IE based on the association with the existing IE in 
the sequence. Further linking will be invoked against the existing IEs that will incremental accomplish 
the whole process.  
4. Idea Story Mechanism: Toward a Design Decision Support System 
Above the researches, we develop a design decision support mechanism called Idea Story, which 
assists designer to converge ideas by storytelling. Idea Story is divided into two parts: Story 
components and procedure. 
4.1 IDEA STORY COMPONENTS 
A main component of Idea Story is story sequence.  
4.1.1. EvenIE and Linkage: The basic elements of story sequence 
Every story sequence is composed by a series of “EventIEs”. EventIE is a special IE act as an event in 
a story. [FIGURE 5] Three factors of IE: issue is regard problem of story, concept is the process, and 
form is the result of event whether it solves the problem or not. And each EventIE’s linkage is 
represented some hints in order to guide audience to enter next event reasonably.  
 
Figure 5. mapping from DIM to story structure 
4.1.2. The data structure of story sequence 
There are three types of EventIE: “Initial EventIE”, “Elaborate EventIE”, and “Transition EventIE”. 
And one story sequence has one Initial EventIE, one Elaborate Sequence, and one Transition EventIE. 
[FIGURE 6] 
 
Figure 6. The structure of story sequence               Figure 7. Transform from Story to Idea Story 
 8
(2) Search one path as Elaborate sequence: search the path by computation according to existing 
Initial EventIE and Transition EventIE. And the Elaborate EventIE of Elaborate sequence has 
better preference value. 
(3) Compose the computation results—story sequence. 
4.2.2. Step2: Combination Stage 
At this Stage, we assist designer grab and operate ideas in brain through four steps. They are display, 
collect, confirm, and synthesize. 
(1) Display the story sequence: a series of pictures represent the EventIEs of story sequence is shown 
one at a time. Based on montage theory, designer self-interprets the blank between two pictures. 
(2) Collect the feeling story sequences in first time: Collecting the feeling/favorite story sequences 
which are picked up by designer. When many set of story sequences shows in the projector, 
designer quickly grabs the story sequences via his intuition. At this stage, designer began to 
approximate to his design prototype in brain. 
(3) Confirm main story sequence: Confirming which one is the main story sequence for designer. 
After collecting many feeling story sequences, designer has to decide one story sequence as main 
force. Maybe not every EventIE of main story sequence are designer likes, but most of like to do. 
(4) Synthesize the final story sequence: designer synthesizes the final story sequence based on the 
main story sequence. Designer must to deeply think some things. Designer could add new EventIE, 
delete existed EventIE, and replace existed EventIE in order to make the main story sequence 
become better. During this period, designer maybe needs to note some messages and synthesize a 
satisfactory resolution. Therefore, designer’s mind more and more apparent through the 
comparison process. 
4.2.3. Step3: Presentation Stage 
At final stage, designer must make a conclusion for Idea Story via representing the resolution which is 
from final story sequence. Designer uses his/her own way to present some impression he/she has. As 
like, a sketch, description, voice record and so on. Designer does his way for recording convergence 
solution or explaining to other people. 
5. An Example 
We follow the sequence and test in a practical project with an architectural designer. The design 
problem is to a 2-3 floors street-house. The Site is 4.5mx30m. [FIGURE 9] The issue is circulation. 
With given DIM that has 30 IEs and linkages, designer sets the preference of every IE. System 
then generates 21 story sequences according to preference. With results, designer picked up 4 story 
sequences as favorite sequence. One of them became main story sequence. The IEs of main story 
sequence are ie3, ie21, ie25, ie15, ie16 and ie13 Then, designer changed the IEs in the main story 
sequence. He deleted ie25, and replaced ie22 and ie30. The IEs of final story sequence are ie3, ie21, 
 10
References 
Barton, B.: 2000, Introduction, Telling stories your way: storytelling and reading aloud in the classroom, Pembroke 
Publishers, Ontario, 7. 
Ericsson, K. A. and Simon, H. A., (1993). Protocol Analysis: Verbal Reports as Data, MIT Press, Cambridge, MA. 
Glebas, F.: 2008a, The Big Picture : Story Structures, Directing the story :professional storytelling and storyboarding 
techniques for live action and animation, Elsevier/Focal Press, Boston, 293. 
Glebas, F.: 2008b, The Goal: Why do we watch?, Directing the story :professional storytelling and storyboarding techniques 
for live action and animation, Elsevier/Focal Press, Boston, 15-19. 
Goldschmidt, G.., (1995). The designer as a team of one, Design Studies, vol. 16(2), pp. 189-209 
Lai, I.-C. and Chang, T.-W.: 2006, A distributed linking system for supporting idea association during the conceptual design 
stage, Design Studies, 27, 685-710. 
Lai, I.-C. and Chang, T.-W.: 2009, One Map Many Ideas : How Novice Designers Generate Conceptual Designs From An 
Idea Map, CADDRIA09, Taiwan, 341-350. 
Lewis, I.: 2001, Script, How to make great short feature films: the making of Ghosthunter, Focal Press, MA, 26. 
Moore, R.: 1999, Venturing Out: Learning the language of voice, motion, and gesture, Creating a family storytelling 
tradition: awakening the hidden storyteller, August House, Little Rock, 33-57. 
Oxman, R.: 2004, Think-maps: teaching design thinking in design education, Design Studies, 25, 63-91. 
Scott, J.: 2002a, Basic overview, How to write for animation, Overlook Press, NY, 36. 
Scott, J.: 2002b, How to prosper in Toon Town, How to write for animation, Overlook Press, NY, 189. 
Sullivan, K., Schumer, G. and Alexander, K.: 2008, Story background and theory, Ideas for the Animation Short, Focal Press, 
MA, 8. 
Wright, J. A.: 2005a, Basic Animation Writing structure, Animation Writing and Development: From Script Development to 
Pitch, Elsevier, MA, 111-115. 
Wright, J. A.: 2005b, Finding Ideas, Animation Writing and Development: From Script Development to Pitch, Elsevier, MA, 
39. 
RDT08 
  
二、與會心得 
在這次的論文寫作過程中，從題目的選定、資料的收集與寫作，我最感謝的是本人在
淡江大學指導之建築系三年級設計工作室的所有學生，而其中三位學生（陳憲宏、周治平、
盧彥安）並實際參與本計劃有關的設計生產的設計實驗。這些實驗幫助本計畫了解設計生
產過程中設計者（以學生為主）的設計行為，以及進行設計決策的可能運算機制，用以輔
助學生產生多樣性的設計想法與可能在設計學習上的幫助。因此，整個研究方法為架構在
早期發展之分散式動態連結的輔助系統架構（稱之為 DIM），探索想法與案例的動態性連
結如何輔助設計工作室教學，其研究方法步驟包括 1) 設計實驗執行；2) 口語分析（放生
思考結合草圖繪製）；3) 決策系統模型建構；4) 決策系統實作與檢驗。上述這些研究方法
牽涉到兩種領域的研究：設計認知（cognition）、設計運算（computation），這兩種研究分
別由兩篇論文予以發表，其中一篇“Playing Jigsaw: Finding the Underlying Structure of 
assembling Ideas within Design Productive Process”為強調設計認知的研究；另外一篇
“Storytelling: A Computational Approach for Convergent Thinking”為強調設計運算的研究。 
    而本次研討會除了以電腦輔助建築設計有關認知與運算兩大範疇為主要的探討議題，
還包括有關數位組建（fabrication）與生產（production）的議題。在為期三天的研討會中，
總共有 58 篇的相關論文發表，而這些論文的作者有許多是國際間的知名學者，因此，作者
全程參與這三天的研討會。在為期三天的論文發表與意見交換過程中，本人發現，在不同
的建築設計領域，由於數位式設計工具的介入後，改變學生在設計過程的工具、方法與思
考，進而影響到設計的成果與創意；這些論文主要將重點放在傳統設計工具與數位設計工
具使用上的比較、利用數位媒體提升設計上的創作、或電腦語言與創作介面間的關係…等。
然而作者的研究主要在於如何利用分散式人工智慧（distributed AI）的介入，幫助學生在在
早期設計概念發展階段的過程中，藉由此系統去激發學生產生多樣性的設計想法，而這些
設計想法可以引導學生發展未來可能的設計方案，與解決方法用以解決多樣性設計問題。
    此外，結合短期性工作營“Rhino 3D & Grasshopper Workshop”的實際操作與學習，除了
提供本人參與類似 CAAD 國際研討會另一種學習經驗，也讓本次研討會的學習更加豐富。
本人認為這種結合相關於研討會主題的工作營，可以提供國內未來舉辦類似國際性研討會
借鏡的地方。 
三、考察參觀活動 
    本人除了參加為期三天的研討會外，也額外撥時間去參觀香港的重要建築物（如 I.M.Pei
的中國商銀、Norman Foster 匯豐銀行等）、都市空間設計（如交通建設、水岸開發、），
尤其香港在解決現代都市所面臨的人口密度與交通的建設規劃都非常成功，可以提供台灣
都市化（地狹少、人口密度高、交通複雜）學習的地方，同時，這些不同尺度的設計將有
助於本人未來教學上的應用與案例，並提升學生在環境美學經驗與創意。 
四、建議 
    經由這次研討會，本人接觸到國際上許多電腦輔助設計領域的重量級學者專家，與其
不同創意性與前瞻性的議題與想法，深刻的感覺到不同領域的意見交流比個人的論文發表
更為重要，除了提供了本人在未來的研究方向的資訊與想法外，更能促進本人在電腦輔助
建築設計上的創作與思考，以及教學方法的改善與創意。因此，本人建議學校應鼓勵老師
參加類似此國際性之研討會，並能定期在本校舉辦國際性的研討會，將此種學術討論與意
見交流的機制，延伸至國際間校與校、院與院、系與系之間的交流與互動，相信此種國際
性的知識交流將提升朝陽未來在國際學術地位的競爭力。 
無研發成果推廣資料 
