 2
production quantity minimizes the expected 
total cost per item, where the total cost 
consists of the setup, inventory holding and 
defective items. Djamaludin et al. [2] 
extended Porteus’s [1] model to consider the 
situation where outputs are sold under a free 
warranty repair policy. Later, the work of 
Djamaludin et al. [2] was further studied by 
Wang and Sheu citeWang under the 
assumption that the process has a discrete 
general shift distribution. Unlike the works 
described above, where the on-line control is 
assumed to be infeasible, Lee [4] studied a 
particular wafer probe problem where the 
detection and correction of the out of control 
problems for the probe machine (PM) are 
feasible during the probing of a batch of 
wafers. The PM is assumed to have a 
geometric shift distribution. Once the PM 
shifts into an out-of control state, wafers 
would be misprobed. However, the 
misprobed wafers can be reworked by 
cleaning the ink and reprobing. Obviously, 
the number of misprobed wafers will be 
affected by the lot size. As a result, it is 
important to determine the optimal probing 
lot size that minimizes the expected average 
processing time per wafer. An upper bound 
and two heuristic solutions for the optimal 
probing lot size are provided by Lee [4].  
This study is attempts to extend Lee’s [4] 
wafer probe problem by further considering 
the following two features in the developed 
wafer probe model: (i) It is assumed that the 
PM possesses a discrete Weibull shift 
distribution with nondecreasing failure rate 
(NDFR). (ii) Minimal repair is used to 
maintain the PM during probing wafers in a 
lot. The reasons for the decision to include 
features (i)-(ii) in our developed wafer 
model are as follows. Feature (i) is based on 
the fact that the Weibull shift distribution is 
the most widely used in reliability 
engineering modeling, and it is generally 
true for most operating systems with NDFR. 
Feature (ii) is adopted because it is 
reasonable to perform a minimal repair for a 
complex system during an operational 
failure since we may not be allowed to 
interrupt the system for a sufficiently long 
time to perform a major overall maintenance. 
Examples of studies on minimal repair 
policy can be seen in Munford and Shahani 
[5] for the case when repair time is 
negligible, and Luss and Kander [6] for the 
case when repair time is non-negligible.  
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. 
In Section 2, the assumptions and notations 
of the model are given. Then, the 
mathematical model is established. In 
Section 3, properties for the optimal probing 
lot size are explored. In addition, the model 
considered by Lee [4] is shown to be a 
special case of our model when the shift 
distribution is geometric. A tighter upper 
bound than Lee’s [4] for the optimal probing 
lot size is provided. In Section 4, numerical 
examples are used to illustrate the impacts 
of minimal repair on the optimal probing lot 
size and its corresponding expected average 
processing time. Also the adequacy of using 
the geometric distribution is examined when 
the PM has an increasing failure rate.  
3. Results and conclusions 
In this paper, a lot-size model has been 
developed for the wafer probe operation in 
the manufacturing of semiconductors, where 
the PM is assumed to have a Weibull shift 
distribution with NDFR. Also, a minimal 
repair policy is introduced to maintain the 
 4
vol.34, pp.137-144 (1986).   
 
 
[12]  Raz T, Herer Y.T.and Grosfeld-Nir A., 
Economic optimization of off-line      
     inspection, IIE Transactions, vol. 32, 
pp.205-217 (2000) 
[13] Rosenblatt, M.J. and H.L. Lee, 
Economic production cycles with 
imperfect production process, IIE 
Transactions, vol.18, pp.48-55 
(1986). 
[14] Tseng, S.T., Optimal preventive 
maintenance policy for deteriorating 
production systems," IIE Transactions, 
vol.28, pp.687-694 (1996). 
[15]  Yeh, R.H. and H.C. Lo, “A markovian 
EPQ model for deteriorating 
production systems,” International 
Journal of Operations and 
Quantitative Management, vol. 6(1), 
pp.45-57 (2000)
 6
 
 
 
 
 
 8
 
 
 
 
 
 10
 
 12
 
 
 
 2
                                                      97 年 3 月 22 日 
報告人姓名  
王志雄 
 
服務機構 
及職稱 
屏東商業技術學院企業管理系
副教授 
時間 
會議 
地點 
2008/3/19-2008/3/21 
香港 
本會核定
補助文號
NSC-96-2221-E-251-003- 
 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 工程師與電腦科技人員國際會議 (IMECS 2008). 
 (英文) The International MultiConference of Engineers and  
Computer Scientists 2008 (IMECS 2008). 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 半導體晶圓探測批量之淺見 
 (英文) Remarks on the Optimal Probing Lot Size for Probing the 
Semiconductor Wafers 
附件三
 
 4
Paper No.: ICOR_34  
Paper Title.: Remarks on the Optimal Probing Lot Size for Probing the Semiconductor Wafers  
 
Thanks for your participation in The International MultiConference of Engineers and  
Computer Scientists 2008 (IMECS 2008). It is our pleasure to tell you that your paper  
has been selected for the above award, based on the reviewer reports and the evaluation  
score results of our conference committee members during the multiconference period. The  
results of the best paper awards have also been available in our multiconference web page:  
http://www.iaeng.org/IMECS2008/  
 
It would be our pleasure if you can tell us your full postal address by replying this  
email. This will enable us to post the certificate for the above award to you by air mail.  
 
If you have any comments on IMECS 2008, do not hesitate to inform us so that we can  
improve the coming International MultiConference of Engineers and Computer Scientists 2009  
(IMECS 2009).  
 
The IMECS 2009 will take place in Hong Kong, 18-20 March, 2009 and its details can  
be found at our multiconference website:  
http://www.iaeng.org/IMECS2009/index.html  
 
We are pleased to inform you about other coming IAENG conferences as below:  
The World Congress on Engineering and Computer Science 2008 (WCECS 2008)  
San Francisco, USA, 22-24 October, 2008  
http://www.iaeng.org/WCECS2008/  
 
Once again, thank you for your participation in IMECS 2008 and we are looking  
forward to meeting you in IMECS 2009. It would be our pleasure if you would like to  
join our conference committee for the above conferences. You are welcome to send us  
your resume to committee@iaeng.org.  
 
Should you have any enquiry, please feel free to contact us.  
 
Best regards,  
Alfred Au  
Assistant Secretary  
International Association of Engineers (IAENG)  
http://www.iaeng.org  
http://www.iaeng.org/WCE2008/index.html  
http://www.iaeng.org/WCECS2008/index.html  
http://www.iaeng.org/IMECS2009/index.html  
 
*** This message is intended for the addressee only.  
If you receive this message by error, please notify us and then delete the email.  
