 THOUGHTS AND PROGRESS 187
 
Artif Organs, Vol. 30, No. 3, 2006
 
tests were conducted to compare the removal effi-
cacy of the prepared immunoadsorption walls.
Finally, potential clinical applications of an ideal
immunoadsorption wall are outlined and evaluated.
 
A SERIAL COPOLYMERIZATION 
PROCEDURE FOR THE PARTIALLY 
INCOMPLETE TWO-STAGE 
POLYMERIZATION METHOD
 
Suppose a number of immunoadsorption walls are
required for clinical removal of certain middle
molecular weight toxins, for example, 
 
β
 
-2M. We
could conduct the partially incomplete two-stage
polymerization method in series as follows to
achieve efficient utilization of the immunoadsorbent.
First, polymerize higher content acrylamide solution
to form a more restrictive supporting gel layer. Sec-
ond, add lower acrylamide content polymer solution
containing immunoadsorbent on top of the support-
ing gel layer and allow sedimentation to be com-
pleted at 0
 
°
 
C. Then, remove the supernatant and
rinse the surface of gel with buffer for dilution. The
volumes of removal and dilution are finely adjusted
to create an optimal nonuniform concentration gra-
dient within the static settled slurry of immunoadsor-
bent. Third, let the temperature of the reaction
system return to temperature (
 
c
 
. 30
 
°
 
C) so that the
polymerization reaction initiates spontaneously to
form a more porous stacking gel layer. Once the
inner portion is thoroughly polymerized, flush away
the unpolymerized portion of the  stacking  gel  with
neutral  phosphate  buffer. The flushed-away immu-
noadsorbent is extensively washed with three cycles
of high and low pH buffers, and then kept at 4
 
°
 
C for
subsequent recycled use. Finally, make up the
required amount of immunoadsorbent with an intact
one and repeat the above steps to manufacture addi-
tional immunoadsorption walls. A schematic repre-
sentation of the serial copolymerization procedure is
shown in Fig. 1.
 
MATERIALS AND METHODS
Materials
 
Acrylamide-bisacrylamide (30% T, 2.7% C) solu-
tion (Sigma, St. Louis, MO, U.S.A.) was prepared by
dissolving 29 g of acrylamide and 1.0 g of bisacryla-
mide in 100 mL of distilled water. The polymeriza-
tion reaction of acrylamide was initiated by
ammonium persulfate (10%, wt/vol) (Sigma) and
accelerated in the presence of N,N,N
 
′
 
,N
 
′
 
-tetrameth-
ylethylenediamine (TEMED) (Bio-Rad, Hercules,
CA, U.S.A.). Cyanogen bromide (CNBr)-activated
Sepharose 4B is washed with 1 mM HCl for use in
the determination of optimal dilution volume. Rab-
bit antibeta-2-microglobulin (anti
 
β
 
-2M) antibodies
(Dako,   Glostrup   Denmark)   were   immobilized
on CNBr-activated Sepharose 4B (Amersham-
Biosciences, Piscataway, NJ, U.S.A.) according to the
standard protocol. The immunoadsorption walls
prepared by the partially incomplete  two-stage
polymerization  method  were stored at 4
 
°
 
C in 0.15 M
NaCl-10 mM sodium phosphate buffer (PBS)
(pH 7.4) (Sigma, St. Louis, MO, U.S.A.) containing
0.02% NaN
 
3
 
 (Merck, Whitehouse Station, NJ,
U.S.A.). Human 
 
β
 
-2M solution was fractionated from
urine of patients under hemodialysis as previously
reported by Vallar et al. (16) and was kept at 
 
−
 
20
 
°
 
C
in concentrated stock of 100 
 
µ
 
g/mL. 
 
β
 
-2M solutions
with concentration levels of 
 
c
 
. 30 
 
µ
 
g/mL were diluted
from the stock early on the day of immunoadsorption
tests. The determination of 
 
β
 
-2M levels was made by
enzyme immunoassay kit (BioCheck, Foster City,
CA, U.S.A.).
 
Creation of nonuniform acrylamide concentration 
gradient by differential dilution
 
Omitting the ligand coupling procedure from the
previously used recipes (15), lower acrylamide con-
tent solution containing CNBr-activated Sepharose
was then added on top of the supporting gel layer.
Once the Sepharose was completely settled, the
supernatant (
 
c
 
. 5.6 mL) was carefully removed using
pipette and different volumes of PBS (0.5–6.5 mL)
were added with minimum disturbance upon the
static slurry Sepharose. When the stacking gel layers
were formed at 
 
c
 
. 30
 
°
 
C after 1 h, the settled volumes
of flushed-away Sepharose were evaluated to deter-
mine the optimal dilution volume.
 
FIG. 1.
 
Schematic representation of a serial copolymerization
procedure for efficient utilization of immunoadsorbent in the for-
mation of an immunoadsorption wall.
Un-polymerized 
Portion 
Supporting Layer 
 
Supporting Layer 
Acrylamide solution 
containing 
immunoadsorbent 
Supporting Layer 
Stacking Layer 
Recovered 
immunoadsorbent 
Polymerized
Portion 
Supply with intact 
immunoadsorbent 
 THOUGHTS AND PROGRESS 189
 
Artif Organs, Vol. 30, No. 3, 2006
 
over, copolymerization of acrylamide with immu-
noadsorbent will not begin under relatively low
concentration of monomers, that is, below 5%T (14).
Consequently, in our present experimental study,
there exists a critical position separating the unpoly-
merized immunoadsorbent and the entrapped one
after copolymerization. Also, this critical position can
be shifted by variable dilution volumes, and it is
closely related to the amount of the flushed-away
immunoadsorbent. Therefore, the optimal dilution
volume  to  be  determined  should  not  only  result
in  a well-configured stationary phase superficially
embedded with immunoadsorbent but also corre-
spond to the maximum amount of recycled immu-
noadsorbent.
To determine the optimal dilution volume for the
preparation of functional immunoadsorption walls,
we employed CNBr-activated Sepharose 4B as an
analog of immunoadsorbent to investigate the effect
of dilution volume on the formation of stacking gel
layer because it could eliminate the use of costly
antibody and the cumbersome ligand coupling pro-
cedure. From the relationship of the dilution volume
and the flushed amount of Sepharose, it was found
that a dilution volume of 5.5 mL could meet the
aforementioned requirement. Therefore, we have
selected 5.5 mL as the optimal dilution volume for
the present serial copolymerization procedure.
The static adsorption tests show similar 
 
β
 
-2M
removal patterns by the three immunoadsorption
walls. These results suggest that the performance of
the three prepared immunoadsorption walls is not
affected by the use of recycled immunoadsorbent.
The performance also suggests that the binding activ-
ity of the unpolymerized immunoadsorbent is not
impaired after the copolymerization as well as after
subsequent recycling processes. Therefore, as long as
enough amount of immunoadsorbent, either intact
and/or recycled ones, is ready for copolymerization,
we can always manufacture the next immunoadsorp-
tion wall.
In 1978, Vincent et al. noted that serum 
 
β
 
-2M
levels in regular dialysis patients vary from 12.5 to
92 mg/L, without correlation with predialysis blood
urea nitrogen, creatinine, or hematocrit (17). In
order to prevent the accumulation of 
 
β
 
-2M, a suit-
able treatment for 
 
β
 
-2M removal should be able to
lower the serum 
 
β
 
-2M levels within the normal
range, or at least under a threshold value that will
not worsen patients’ situations. Although this study
again confirms the removal ability of an immunoad-
sorption wall based on polyacrylamide, the calcu-
lated surface binding capacity is not encouraging. It
is apparent that such an immunoadsorption wall,
either the present or previous ones, will not have
any clinical significance at all. As a tentative estima-
tion, a 1-m
 
2
 
 immunoadsorption wall with surface
binding capacity of at least 400 mg/m
 
2
 
, that is, 40 
 
µ
 
g/
cm
 
2
 
, is required for counterbalance of the daily pro-
duction of 
 
β
 
-2M in three-times-per-week treatment
(18). We are seeking to manufacture immunoad-
sorption walls with higher 
 
β
 
-2M adsorption site den-
sities using more powerful ligands to improve its
performance.
Recently, Grovender et al. successfully employed
recombinant DNA technology to engineer a single-
chain variable region antibody fragment-based
(scFv-based) immunoadsorbent for the extracorpo-
real removal of 
 
β
 
-2M (19). Under optimum condi-
tions, the scFv-based immunoadsorbent exhibited an
adsorption site density of 0.41 
 
±
 
 0.01 mg 
 
β
 
-2M/mL
settled gel and the mass ratio of adsorbed 
 
β
 
-2M to
immobilized antibody is 0.17 
 
±
 
 0.02 mg 
 
β
 
-2M/mg
scFv greater than any previous literature report for
whole antibodies. Although a concrete embodiment
of a stationary phase coupled with scFv antibody
fragments is thus far unavailable, it is of great interest
to envisage the potential advantages provided that
scFv-based immunoadsorbent can be included in an
immunoadsorption wall. First, higher surface binding
capacity could be achieved because the whole anti-
bodies are significantly larger than the scFv antibody
fragments. Second, the steric hindrance effect could
be minimized to facilitate the capture of antigen by
the ligand. Third, the immunoadsorption walls using
scFv can be obtained at a much lower cost because
of the cost reduction of scFv expressed by the bacte-
rial or yeast fermentations. Hence, a high perfor-
mance immunoadsorption wall based on the
application of scFv technologies may be worth pur-
suing in the future.
The experimental studies thus far have demon-
strated that polyacrylamide could serve as a suitable
matrix for an immunoadsorption wall in many
respects. However, the potential effects of its further
application to a useful extracorporeal circuit in
conjunction  with  hemodialysis  filters  remain  a
major concern. In fact, recent years have witnessed
increasing comparable researches related to the
therapeutic use of polyacrylamide in literature (20–
23). Of note, Bosch et al. developed a DALI system
based on modified polyacrylate ligands immobilized
on a polyacrylamide matrix that enables direct
adsorption of lipoproteins from whole blood with
lack  of  detrimental  effects  on  blood  cells  and
most plasma parameters. Nevertheless, considerable
improvements are still required to upgrade the
performance of the present immunoadsorption walls
