 2
英文摘要 
As user demands for wireless data services and high data rates grow, efficient channel 
usage is becoming a critical issue. Ultra-wideband (UWB) technology which occupies 
a much greater bandwidth than any current communication technology provides 
precise timing and location information. This project proposes a scheduling algorithm 
which can maximize spatial channel utilization by the aid of location information and 
can also guarantee the QoS properties of multimedia traffics. The proposed algorithm, 
which is executed by the piconet coordinator, consists of three components: grouping, 
call admission control, and best effort traffic maximization. The grouping component 
groups non-interfering traffics together so that they are allowed to be transmitted 
simultaneously. The problem of grouping is shown equivalent to the graph coloring 
problem for which a lot of algorithms are available. The CAC component is 
responsible for QoS guarantee. The best effort traffic maximization component 
attempts to maximize the total throughput of best effort traffics. The maximization 
problem is formulated as a linear programming. Finally, simulation results verify the 
ability of higher channel utilization and QoS guarantee. 
 
Index Terms — Scheduling, resource allocation, admission control, QoS, 802.15.3 
 
 4
前言 
As user demands for fast data services and high data rates increase, efficient channel 
usage is becoming a critical issue. To cope with wireless spectrum scarcity challenges, 
new generation wireless communication systems are required to offer not just high 
peak bit rates, but also high spatial capacity. The Federal Communications 
Commission’s (FCC) indicates that overlapping allocations over all of the frequency 
bands can improve channel utilization. FCC restrictions on radio parameters like 
modulation, transmitting power, antenna gain, power spectral density and out-of-band 
emissions have resulted in much improvements of channel utilization. 
With the location information provided by UWB technology [14] and the 
transmission power control (TPC) supported by IEEE 802.15.3 [1], a scheduling 
algorithm for high-speed WPANs is proposed in this project from the view point of 
spatial channel reuse. With this mechanism, the system throughput can be maximized 
and the channel utilization can be enhanced, while the QoS requirements are satisfied. 
UWB technology had been studied from the 1960's to the 1990's by the United 
States military for its use in modern RADAR. Later, the Federal Communications 
Commission (FCC) announced a Notice of Proposed Rule Making (NPRM) [2] to 
address rules for UWB emission. Furthermore, the FCC commissioners unanimously 
approved limited UWB uses in February 2002. UWB devices either had their 
fractional bandwidths greater than 0.25 or occupied 1.5 GHz or more of the spectrum. 
Instead of using the traditional RF carriers, UWB transmitters emitted a series of short 
pulses for data transmission. Each short pulse, also called a monocycle, is equivalent 
to a single sine wave. The duration of a UWB monocycle varies from 0.2 to 1.5 
nanoseconds. 
UWB technology has several advantages over traditional RF based technologies 
such as IEEE 802.11. First, UWB pulses can provide very high data rate (up to 480 
Mbps) in multi-user networks. Second, unavoidable crunch in spectrum availability 
can be relieved. By limiting the transmitting energy, UWB devices are allowed to 
make use of extremely wide frequency band which is shared with traditional 
narrowband devices. Third, UWB technology does not need the carrier band to 
transmit data, and so the power consumption is relatively low. Fourth, UWB devices 
are of smaller size and lower cost, as a consequence of their transceivers not 
containing RF/IF conversion stages, local oscillators, mixers and other expensive 
SAW filters. Fifth, UWB technology can provide more accurate location information. 
研究目的 
 6
in a TDMA packet network, in which packets are not infinitely divisible and one 
session is served at a time, a practical packet-by-packet GPS (PGPS) was proposed in 
[26]. 
PGPS assigned each incoming packet a timestamp kiF  which was computed by  
i
k
i
k
i
k
i RLSF /+= and } ),(max{
1−
=
k
i
k
i
k
i FavS , where Ri is the transmission rate of 
session i and 
k
iF , 
k
iS , 
k
iL , 
k
ia are the virtual finish time, virtual start time, packet 
length and arrival time of the k-th packet of session i, respectively. Besides, v(t) is a 
virtual time function which was calculated according to )/(/)(
)(
∑
∈
=
tBi
iRCdttdv , 
where C is the fixed channel rate and B(t) is the set of backlogged sessions at time t. 
Incoming packets were served in increasing order of their timestamps. There were 
other modified versions of GPS, i.e., worst-case fair weighted fair queueing (WF
2
Q) 
[8], start-time fair queueing (STFQ) [15] and self-clocked fair queueing (SCFQ) [16]. 
More scheduling algorithms for wireline networks can be found in [29]. 
Since all GPS-based scheduling algorithms that were mentioned above assumed 
error-free channels, it is improper to implement them in wireless networks. Compared 
with wireline networks, wireless networks incline to a burst of location-dependent 
channel errors due to interference, fade and multipath effect. An additional 
compensation model should be added to these GPS-based scheduling algorithms, in 
order to deal with channel errors in wireless networks. The purpose of the 
compensation model is to enable lagging flows to reclaim services that were lost due 
to channel errors.  
There were some scheduling algorithms proposed for wireless networks, e.g., 
channel state dependent packet scheduling algorithm (CSDPS) [7], idealized wireless 
fair queueing algorithm (IWFQ) [23], channel independent fair queueing algorithm 
(CIF- Q) [25], server based fairness algorithm (SBFA) [28] and wireless fair service 
algorithm (WFS) [23]. They all combined GPS-based scheduling algorithms with 
compensation models. GPS-based scheduling algorithms can guarantee QoS 
properties. 
At the first glance, it seems possible to directly adapt GPS-based scheduling 
algorithms to the IEEE 802.15.3 MAC protocol. It was stated in [9] that when the 
network was at a high data rate, GPS-based scheduling algorithms might cause a 
bottleneck which was incurred by the heavy computation required for evaluating 
virtual time tags of packets and then sorting them. So, it is rather difficult to 
implement GPS- based scheduling algorithms in the IEEE 802.15.3 network, because 
DEVs have low computing power. 
 8
acknowledgment frame is replied as soon as a frame is correctly received. In the last 
mode, the recipient may delay replying an acknowledgment frame after receiving a 
burst of data. 
The 802.15.3 MAC protocol provides a functionality of controlling transmitter 
power. The ability to control power enables DEVs to minimize the interference with 
other wireless networks that share the same channel and to decrease the power 
consumption. There are two methods for controlling transmitter power. One allows 
the PNC to set a maximum level of transmission power for the CAP and the beacon. 
The other, which is adopted by this project, allows DEVs to enhance or reduce the 
transmission power. 
B. A Spatial-Reused Scheduling Algorithm 
In this section, a spatial-reused scheduling algorithm for IEEE 802.15.3(a) networks is 
proposed. We do not deal with any particular time-critical traffics (such as CBR and 
real-time VBR) and non-time-critical traffics (such as non-real-time VBR, UBR and 
ABR). Instead, we classify traffics into two categories: real-time traffics (RTs) and 
non- real-time traffics (NRTs). We assume that there are an RT queue and an NRT 
queue in each DEV (and the PNC) and at any time, one is empty and the other 
contains only one traffic. Using the method of [10] together with UWB technology, 
the PNC can compute relative positions of DEVs. They are also aware of the relative 
position of each other via beacons. 
The IEEE 802.15.3 system architecture equipped with the proposed mechanism 
is shown in Figure 2. The proposed mechanism, which is implemented in the PNC 
only, contains three components: grouping, call admission control (CAC) and best 
effort traffic maximization (BETM). For each superframe, the grouping component 
determines the number of CTAs contained in it. The CAC component determines 
which traffic requests can be accepted. The BETM component determines the length 
of each CTA, the length of the superframe and the duration of each traffic request. 
The PNC informs all DEVs of these via beacons. 
When a DEV wants to transmit data, it sends a request message to the PNC 
during the CAP. At the end of the CAP, the PNC may receive a number of request 
messages and the grouping component then forms these requests into groups so that 
non-interfering requests belong to the same group (one request may belong to more 
than one group). The number of distinct groups determines the number of CTAs 
required and traffics belonging to the same group can be transmitted simultaneously by 
dynamically adjusting transmission power. The problem of grouping is equivalent to 
the graph coloring problem [27]. 
The CAC component is responsible for checking whether there is enough time 
 10
graph coloring problem as described below. 
The graph coloring problem. Given the vertex set V={v1, v2, …, vn} of a graph G and 
a set C={c1, c2, …, ck} of k distinct colors, determine a mapping H from V to C so that  
|H(V)| is minimized, subject to the constraint that H(vi)=H(vj) implies that vi and vj are 
not adjacent in G for all 1≤i≤n and 1≤j≤n. A feasible mapping H satisfying the 
constraint is called a |H(V)|-coloring of G. 
Theorem 1. The problem of grouping is equivalent to the graph coloring problem. 
Proof. We first show that each instance of the problem of grouping can be 
transformed into an instance of the graph coloring problem. Consider R={r1, r2, …, rn} 
and T={t1, t2, …, tk} an arbitrary instance, denoted by I, of the problem of grouping. 
Denote each ri by a vertex vi and each interference between ri and rj by an edge (vi, vj). 
The resulting graph is denoted by G=(V, E), where V={v1, v2, …, vn}.  
Suppose that F: R → T is a feasible mapping for I, i.e., F(ri)=F(rj) implies no 
interference between ri and rj. F has the following property for G: F(vi)=F(vj) implies 
that vi and vj are not adjacent in G. Moreover, there exists a feasible F for I if and only 
if G has a |F(R)|-coloring, imaging that there is a one-to-one correspondence from 
T={t1, t2, …, tk} to C={c1, c2, …, ck}. Hence, G is an instance of the graph coloring 
problem. 
Similarly, each instance of the graph coloring problem can be transformed into 
an instance of the problem of grouping so that the former has a |H(V)|-coloring if and 
only if there exists a feasible mapping F with |F(R)|=|H(V)| for the latter.              
Q.E.D.               
With Theorem 1, both the problem of grouping and the graph coloring problem 
are referred to interchangeably from now on. The graph coloring problem is known to 
be NP-hard [22]. A graph G is k-colorable if there is a k-coloring of G. The minimum 
k so that G is k-colorable is called the chromatic number of G. There are some exact 
algorithms and approximation algorithms for the graph coloring problem. Most of 
exact algorithms are based on implicit enumeration. The well-known DSATUR 
algorithm [6] is one of them. Differently, Méndez Díaz and Zabala proposed an 
LP-based Branch-and- Cut algorithm in [24] for the graph coloring problem.  
On the other hand, an approximation algorithm for coloring an n-vertex graph G 
was proposed in [17] whose approximation ratio was bounded by O(n(log log 
n)
2
/log
3
n). The approximation ratio is the ratio of the number of colors used to color 
G to the chromatic number of G. In [5], an approximation algorithm for coloring an 
n-vertex k- colorable graph G was proposed. When k>3 (k=3), O(n
1−1/(k−4/3)
 log
8/5
n) 
(O(n
3/8
 log
8/5
n)) colors were used. Also there was a randomized approximation 
algorithm in [19] which used min{O(∆1−2/k log1/2∆ log n), O(n1−3/(k+1) log1/2n)} colors, 
 12
E. BETM 
After the CAC component, the QoS requirements of all RTs are guaranteed. In this 
section, we intend to maximize the total throughput of all NRTs based on a 
reassignment of requests to CTAs. The maximization is subject to the constraints 
induced by the upper bound and lower bounds of Section 4.2. Recall that after the 
grouping component, each request, RT or NRT, is assigned to a unique CTA. Now a 
reassignment is to be made in order to increase the total throughput. Each NRT request 
in the reassignment may be assigned to extra CTAs, whereas each RT request remains 
the same assignment as before. 
The reassignment is described as follows. Suppose that there are m NRT 
requests, denoted by rφ(1), rφ(2), …, rφ(m), and each rφ(i) (1≤i≤m) interferes with pφ(i) 
NRT requests. First, arrange these m NRT requests in a nondecreasing sequence of 
pφ(i)’s. Then, for each NRT request, say rφ(i), in the sequence, sequentially perform the 
following: schedule rφ(i) in a new CTA if it does not interfere with any (RT or NRT) 
request contained in the CTA. 
Figure 5 shows an example. Suppose that there are two RT requests, denoted by 
RT 1 and RT 2, and three NRT requests, denoted by NRT 1, NRT 2 and NRT 3. The 
interference is expressed with a graph, as shown in Figure 5(a), whose vertices 
represent the requests and whose edges represent the interference among them. The 
assignment of the requests to CTAs after the grouping component is shown in Figure 
5(b). The reassignment of NRT requests can be performed in the sequence of NRT 3, 
NRT 2 and NRT 1, and the result is shown in Figure 5(c). The reassignment schedules 
NRT 2 in CTA 3 and NRT 3 in CTA 1 and CTA 3, additionally. After the reassignment, 
the total throughput of all NRTs can be enhanced. 
Let Ti be the set of CTAs where rφ(i) is scheduled after the reassignment. For 
convenience, we use |CTA j| to denote the time length of CTA j and |rφ(i)| to denote the 
time length required by rφ(i). Now that rφ(i) is scheduled in the CTAs of Ti, |rφ(i)| is 
distributed over them. We use |rφ(i)|
(q)
 to denote the portion of |rφ(i)| that is distributed in 
CTA q, where CTA q ∈ Ti. Clearly, the summation of all |rφ(i)|
(q)
’s is equal to |rφ(i)|. For 
the example of Figure 5(c), consider (rφ(1), rφ(2), rφ(3))=(NRT 1, NRT 2, NRT 3) and 
then T1={CTA 3}, T2={CTA 1, CTA 3} and T3={CTA 1, CTA 2, CTA 3}. The 
distribution of |NRT 1|, |NRT 2| and |NRT 3| is illustrated in Figure 6. 
Suppose that k CTAs are used after the grouping component. We let U denote 
the upper bound and Lj denote the lower bound for CTA j, where 1≤j≤k. The goal of 
the BETM is to maximize ∑
=
m
i
ir
1
)( || φ  subject to some constraints as follows. First, 
|CTA j| ≥ Lj assures that the bandwidth requirements for the RT requests that are 
 14
environment models a piconet which covers a 10m×10m area, where the DEVs are 
randomly distributed. Each DEV is equipped with a radio transceiver that is capable 
of transmitting up to 10 meters over a wireless channel. Each DEV can adjust its 
transmitting power dynamically. Since the design purpose of IEEE 802.15.3 is for the 
use of a WPAN, it is assumed that every transmitting pair has a distance of no more 
than 1 meter. The transmission capability of each network interface is assumed 100 
Mbps.  
There are three CBR flows (a type of RTs) in the simulation scenario whose 
bandwidths are 32 Kbps, 1.5 Mbps and 15 Mbps, respectively, and whose delay 
limitations are set to 45 ms, 75 ms and 90 ms, respectively. In order to observe their 
QoS guarantee, up to ten FTP flows (a type of NRTs) are fed when the simulation 
proceeds. Since no scheduling method is specified in the IEEE 802.15.3 standard, 
first-come-first- served (FCFS) is implemented for comparison with the proposed 
mechanism. In the implementation, a traffic (RT or NRT) request will be rejected if it 
causes the total length of the beacon, the CAP and the CTAP exceeding 65535 ms.  
The QoS guarantee of RT requests is measured by packet delay, packet dropping 
rate and bandwidth (packet data rate). Each simulation result is obtained by running 
100 random instances and then computing their average. Simulation results for packet 
delay are shown in Figure 7, where the delay of a packet is the time length from the 
time when it reaches the MAC layer to the time when it reaches the destination. The 
MAC queueing time of dropped packets is not counted.  
As observed from Figure 7, each CBR flow has a smaller packet delay than the 
delay limitation. The reason is that a packet whose delay exceeds the delay limitation 
is dropped. The influence of FTP flows on the packet delay for the proposed 
mechanism is negligible, which is a consequence of an upper bound (obtained in 
Section 4) on the length of each superframe. The packet delay for FCFS is growing 
when the number of FTP flows is increasing until the bottleneck (three FTP flows in 
the simulation scenario) is reached. 
Simulation results for packet dropping rate are shown in Figure 8. The packet 
dropping rate for the proposed mechanism approaches zero because the upper bound 
is not greater than the minimal delay limitation. All packets in the proposed 
mechanism are sent out before their delay limitations. Similar to Figure 7, the packet 
dropping rate for FCFS is growing when the number of FTP flows is increasing until 
the bottleneck is reached. Since the proposed mechanism results in a very low 
dropping rate, it can support multimedia traffics very well. 
Simulation results for bandwidth are shown in Figure 9. Both the proposed 
mechanism and FCFS can guarantee the bandwidth requirement. Since IEEE 802.15.3 
is TDMA based, it can guarantee the bandwidth requirement if there are enough CTAs 
 16
formulated as an LP problem. 
There are three advantages for the proposed mechanism. First, it can provide 
higher spatial reuse. By adjusting transmitting power, non-interfering traffics can be 
transmitted simultaneously. Second, it can guarantee the QoS properties of 
multimedia traffics. This was accomplished by the aid of lower bounds for all CTAs 
and the upper bound for the superframe, which were estimated according to the 
bandwidth requirements and delay limitations of RTs. Third, it can maximize the total 
throughput of NRTs. The maximization was based on a rescheduling of NRTs and an 
LP formulation. 
Some further research topics are described as follows. The first is to schedule 
different types of VBRs with different time lengths of CTAs. In the proposed 
mechanism, each RT was scheduled with a fixed time length. Although it serves well 
for CBRs, it is not suitable for VBRs. Since a VBR may have different bandwidth 
requirements in different superframes, its scheduled channel time may be wasted. 
The second is to determine the optimal length of the CAP so that the channel 
utilization can be maximized. Recall that all traffic requests are delivered during the 
CAP in a contention manner, whereas real traffics are transmitted during the CTAP. 
More traffic requests are desired to be delivered during the CAP in order to enhance 
the channel utilization. However, if there are too many traffic requests, some of them 
will be rejected. The ideal situation is that there are the most traffic requests delivered 
which are accepted by the CAC component.  
The third is to consider a compensation model. It was assumed in this project 
that the wireless channel is error free. It is more realistic for the proposed mechanism 
to consider a compensation model for an error-prone wireless channel.  
參考文獻 
[1] IEEE standard 802.15.3: Wireless Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical 
Layer (PHY) Specifications for High Rate Wireless Personal Area Networks 
(WPANs), Inst. Elec. Electron. Eng., New York, USA, 2003. 
[2] FCC Notice of Proposed Rule Making, Revision of Part 15 of the Commission’s 
Regarding Ultra-wideband Transmission Systems, ETDocket 98-153. 
[3] Ns2, the VINT project, http://www.isi.edu/nsnam/ns/. 
[4] G. Arfken, “Lagrange multipliers,” Mathematical Methods for Physicists, 
Academic Press, pp. 945-950, 1985. 
[5] A. Blum, “New approximation algorithms for graph coloring,” Journal of the 
 18
semidefinite programming,” Journal of the ACM, vol. 45, pp. 246-265, 1998. 
[20] H. Karloff, Linear Programming, Birkhauser: Boston, 1991. 
[21] N. Karmarkar, “A new polynomial-time algorithm for linear programming,” 
Combinatorica, vol. 4, pp. 373-395, 1984. 
[22] R. M. Karp, “Reducibility among combinatorial problems,” Proceedings of the 
Symposium on the Complexity of Computer Computations, pp. 85-104, 1972. 
[23] S. Lu, T. Nandagopal, and V. Bharghavan, “Fair scheduling in wireless packet 
networks,” Proceedings of the ACM MOBICOM, vol. 27, pp. 63-74, 1997. 
[24] I. Méndez Díaz and P. Zabala, “A branch-and-cut algorithm for graph coloring,” 
Proceedings of the Computational Symposium on Graph Coloring and 
Generalizations, 2002. 
[25] T.S. Ng, I. Stoica, and H. Zhang, “Packet fair queueing algorithms for wireless 
networks with location-dependent errors,” Proceedings of the IEEE INFOCOM, 
vol 3, pp. 1103-1111, 1998. 
[26] A. Parekh and R. Gallager, “A generalized processor sharing approach to flow 
control in integrated services networks: the single node case,” IEEE/ACM 
Transactions on Networking, vol. 1, pp. 344-357, 1993. 
[27] H. A. Peelle, “Graph coloring in J: an introduction,” Proceedings of the ACM 
SIGAPL APL Quote Quad Conference, vol. 31, pp77-82, 2000 
[28] P. Ramanathan and P. Agrawal, “Adapting packet fair queueing algorithms to 
wireless networks,” Proceedings of the ACM MOBICOM, pp. 1-9, 1998. 
[29] H. Zhang, “Service disciplines for guaranteed performance service in packet- 
switching Networks,” Proceedings of the IEEE, vol. 83, pp. 1374-1396, 1995. 
 
 
 20
 
 
Figure 3. The concept of grouping. 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. The concept of CAC. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 22
 
Figure 7. Packet delay. 
 
 
Figure 8. Packet dropping rate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 24
 
Figure 11. Number of accepted RTs. 
 
 2 
三個部分。 
在 Wireless Network and Pervasive Computing 的會議中，有探討
在 RFID system中，Tag 常發生的互相碰撞的問題，和在 Multihop 無
線網路中探討 Accountability，用 accountability 來判斷網路擁塞的情
況是如何。 
在 Localization 的部分，有探討室外的定位也有探討室內的定
位，在室外的部分，可以用一些儀器或 sensor，例如，用加速度儀或
是方向儀來協助 GPS 定位系統，以達到更好的定位目的，或是利用
IMU 來推論蒐集各鄰近 Wi-Fi AP 訊號強度，各樣本所採集的位置相
對於最後一個樣本所採集之位置的相對位移，這個步驟將產生一個終
點位置有待確定之移動軌跡。之後，定位演算法要利用該軌跡上各採
樣點的訊號強度樣本與相對於終點位置等資訊來找尋最有可能的終
點位置。而在室內定位的部分，則是透過演算法的設計，設計不同的
訊號距離計算評比方式來在 fingerprint系統中尋找最適合的參考點來
當作使用者目前所在的位置。 
在Wireless Ad Hoc Network: Theory這個 session，network coding 
這個技術也被廣泛的討論，不論是使用 inter-flow 或是 intra-flow 的
network coding，都能有效的提升傳輸的效率。但如何更有效的排程
被 encode 的 flow 是其中一項值得研究的議題。另外，在 multi-hop
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/11/04
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: IEEE 802.15.3無線多媒體網路之資源管理
計畫主持人: 陳健輝
計畫編號: 96-2628-E-002-025-MY3 學門領域: 計算機網路與網際網路
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
