Ling-Sheng Jang1, Wei-Lun Chen2, Tang-Yuan Chen2, Keng-Yu Chou2, Yi-Chu Hsu2and Kai-Jan Lin 2 
 
recently provided new tools for the exploration of molecular behavior at the 
single-molecule level[1-3].  Nanofluidics is expected to find significant applications 
in biotechnology and medicine, so the study of molecular dynamics in confined 
environments is relevant.  When the dimensions of a vessel are comparable with 
the size of an enclosed molecule, confinement is expected to introduce new 
behavior due to the prohibition of conformations that would otherwise be 
available to a molecule free in solution. 
The interaction of DNA molecules with nanostructured channels having 
dimensions close to the persistence length of the molecule (~50 nm) in aqueous 
buffer solutions  provides an entirely new way of detecting, analyzing, and 
separating these biomolecules.  Consider a 100 kilobase (kb) double-stranded 
DNA molecule with a contour length of 34 µm (0.34 nm/base pair): the molecule 
assumes a compact random coil configuration in its natural state with a radius of 
gyration 0.47 mm.  If such a DNA molecule flows through a microfluidic channel 
with a cross section much larger than the size of the random coil, the DNA 
molecule can pass easily while preserving its random coil configuration.  On the 
other hand, if such a DNA molecule is forced to flow through a nanofluidic 
channel with a cross section comparable to the persistence length of the molecule, 
it is energetically more favorable for the DNA molecules to be in the stretched 
Ling-Sheng Jang1, Wei-Lun Chen2, Tang-Yuan Chen2, Keng-Yu Chou2, Yi-Chu Hsu2and Kai-Jan Lin 2 
 
second method, the 1D nanochannels were etched on silicon substrate. The 
process began with a 4” and 500 µm silicon wafer. The channels were defined on 
photoresist using a standard photolithography process. Following by 2.38% 
TMAH with a etch rate of 15 nm/min, the channels with a width of 130 µm and a 
depth of 150 nm shown in Fig. 3 were fabricated. A piece of Pyrex glass was 
bonded to the patterned silicon to form the 1D nanochannels using the anodic 
bonding technique. Fig. 4 shows the fabrication process of the second method.  
100 bp DNA molecules with ethidium bromide were introduced into the 
1D nanochannels by the peristaltic micropump. Fluorescence Inverted 
Microscope was use to inspect the motion of DNA in the channels. The images 
were recorded by a low-intensity cooled CCD camera. Fig. 5 and Fig. 6 show 
the photos of DNA with and without fluorescence, respectively. According to the 
preliminary results, it can be seen that the DNA molecules didn’t be stretched. 
They were in a random coil.   
    The one-dimensional nanofluidic channels were successfully fabricated. 
The preliminary experiment for DNA stretching were carried out although it 
didn’t succeed. The future work would be focused on the fabrication of two-
dimensional nanofluidic channels. In addition, the sensitivity of the detection 
