1 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
彩色濾光片製造廠訂單分配、產能規劃與機台派工研究(III)  
A Study of Order Assignment, Capacity Planning, and Machine 
Dispatching for Multiple Color Filter Fabs (III) 
              計 畫 編 號：NSC 98-2221-E-011-157 
執 行 期 限：98 年 8 月 1 日至 99 年 7 月 31 日 
主 持 人：陳建良   國立台灣科技大學工業管理系 
計畫參與人員：彭惠瑜 洪銘謙 孫正儒 趙哲輝
中文摘要 
本研究針對彩色濾光片廠發展一套以反
覆 模 擬 為 基 礎 的 投 料 策 略 (Iterative 
Simulation-based Release , ISR)，本研究 CF 廠
擁有兩條生產線，其生產線均有五個主要的製
程 :黑色矩陣 (Black Matrix, BM)、彩色層
(Red/Green/Blue Color Layer, RGB)、鍍膜
(Indium Tin Oxide, ITO)。這兩條生產線共用廣
視 角 (Multi-Domain Vertical Alignment, 
MVA)，MVA 機台可進行 BM、R、G、B 與
MVA 等製程的特性，當 MVA 機台在進行
MVA 製程的閒餘時間，可進行 BM、R、G、
B 的生產以增加產能。 
本研究利用 AutoMod 模擬軟體建置本研
究進行模擬個案廠的實際生產過程。發展一個
較好的投料策略，在規劃其間內利用模擬試驗
找出 MVA 的閒餘時間來做新的投料計畫，以
增加 MVA 產能。透過反覆修正模擬系統的實
驗，找到最佳的投料時間點，且有足夠的時間
在 MVA 上運作完成，以滿足投料計畫。模擬
結果顯示本研究發展之 ISR 可有效改善產能。 
關鍵詞：彩色濾光片廠、系統模擬、投料策略 
Abstract 
This study proposed Iterative 
Simulation-based Release (ISR) policy for Color 
Filter fabs based on iterative simulation. The 
studied fab has two identical lines with the 
processes of Black Matrix (BM), Color Layer 
(Red, Green, and Blue, RGB), and Indium Tin 
Oxide. These two lines share Multi-Domain 
Vertical Alignment (MVA) equipment with the 
capability and flexibility to provide the 
functions of MVA, BM, and RGB. Therefore, 
when it is sufficient for MVA equipment to 
provide the original MVA function for the lots 
released from the two lines, it can be setup to 
provide the functions of BM or RGB to increase 
the fab throughput. 
An AutoMod simulation model was 
developed and validated based on a real CF Fab 
in Taiwan. Heuristic lot release plan was 
developed and used as the input of simulation. A 
better release plan can be developed by taking 
advantage of MVA’s idle periods over the 
planning horizon generated from simulation and 
releasing new lots to MVA to increase its 
throughput. Release plans can be modified 
iteratively when the simulation results of the 
previous release plans show sufficient idle 
periods at MVA operation. The case study 
demonstrated that the proposed ISR is effective 
in improving throughputs. 
Keywords: Color Filter, Simulation Model, 
Release Planning 
3 
 
FIGURE 2 - The relationship of validation, 
verification, and establishing credibility 
 
In recent years, there are many simulation 
studies in semiconductor and TFT-LCD 
manufacturing. Guo et al. (2007) proposed a 
WIP-exception management model to define, 
detect, and respond to WIP exceptions and built 
an eM-Plant simulation model for 
semiconductor back-end processes. Kong (2007) 
introduced two-step simulation method to 
predict the throughput of semiconductor fab. In 
simulation steps, AutoMod was used to plan 
and design the Automated Material Handling 
System (AMHS) of semiconductor fab, and 
AutoSched AP was used to model production 
logic. Chiang et al. (2008) proposed a hybrid 
dispatching rule to determine the operational 
priorities of jobs by using fuzzy Analytic 
Hierarchy Process (AHP) that determined an 
appropriate set of acceptable WIP deviation 
levels. An eM-Plant simulation model for 
semiconductor back-end processes was 
developed. 
Lin et al. (2008) developed an eM-Plant 
simulation model for TFT-LCD cell process 
and studied the effects of lot release time and 
dispatching rule. Chen et al. (2009) developed 
an AutoMod simulation model and conducted 
validation analysis for a real-world TFT-LCD 
Color Filter Fab. The simulation model was 
representative with up to 15% difference 
between the outputs from simulation model and 
real fab. Lee et al. (2009) proposed a 
production execution planning system for panel 
block operations utilizing discrete-event 
simulation and simulated annealing. Chen et al. 
(2009) proposed an infinite capacity 
requirements planning system considering 
shared equipment for twin fabs of wafer 
fabrication, and simulation was used for 
performance evaluation. 
2. Methodology 
Fig. 3 depicts the flowchart of this research 
including six steps. In steps 1, the release 
planning problems at CF fabs are formulated. 
The data from real CF fabs are collected and an 
AutoMod simulation model is built based on 
these data in Step 2. The model is tested, 
modified, and finally validated to represent the 
real CF Fabs. Next, release control policy ISR 
is proposed and simulation is used to evaluate 
the performance of this policy on the basis of 
design of experiments. 
 
FIGURE 3 - The flow chart of this research 
2.1 Simulation Modeling 
An AutoMod simulation model shown in Fig. 4 
is developed in this research. The modeling 
parameters are classified into four categories: 
operation, moving tool, stocker, and product. A 
5 
The production capacity of the studied CF 
fab is about 200,000 to 250,000 pieces of 
glasses per month, and a lot typically consists 
of 50 pieces of glasses stored in one cassette. 
Three product types with different process 
routines are shown in Table 1. The order’s 
batch size ranges from 300 to 3,000 glasses in 
different product types. 
TABLE 1 - Product type with different 
manufacturing processes 
Product 
Type 
Routing 
A BM→R→G→B→ITO→FI  
B BM→R→G→B→ITO→PS→FI 
C BM→R→G→B→ITO→MVA→PS→FI 
2.3 Release Planning Based on Iterative 
Simulation 
Simulation model can be used to predict the 
idle periods of MVA line in the planning time 
horizon with an initial release plan, and ISR 
can take advantage of this information to 
modify the release plan (i.e., to release more 
lots to MVA line in advance to avoid it 
becoming idle) to increase the equipment 
utilization and also the throughput of the CF 
fab, as shown in Fig. 6. When ISR is used, the 
lot release plan generated from RL policy 
becomes the input to AutoMod simulation 
model and simulation results with equipment 
idle periods are used as a basis of improving lot 
release plan.
 
FIGURE 4 - An AutoMod simulation model of color filter fabs developed in this research 
  
FIGURE 5 - System information of simulation 
7 
FIGURE 7 - The Screen snapshots of AutoMod 
As shown in Table 3, the main effect of 
PM is significant in terms of the throughput in 
FI operation. PM is a significant factor, as FI is 
the final operation in the entire CF production 
routine and different product types have 
different length of routine influencing FI 
throughput. As shown in Table 4, the main 
effects of both LRP and PM are significant in 
terms of the throughput in MVA operation. 
LRP is a significant factor, because the idle 
time of MVA operation decreased with better 
release plan and this increases MVA’s 
throughput and utilization.  
Fig. 8 shows the distribution of MVA’s 
idle time using RL and ISR. In this example, 
the idle time of MVA operation is well used by 
the new lot release when it is more than 90 
minutes. Release plans can be modified 
iteratively when the simulation results of the 
previous version of release plan show sufficient 
idle periods at MVA operation. This study only 
shows the throughput of one-month simulation. 
It is observed that some newly released lots at 
MVA operation are WIPs in current month but 
will become the additional throughput at FI in 
coming months.  
TABLE 3 - ANOVA table of throughput of FI 
 
TABLE 4 - ANOVA table of throughput of 
MVA  
 
0.0
100.0
200.0
300.0
400.0
500.0
600.0
700.0
800.0
1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 Date
Idle Time(Min)
Before
ISRL
After
ISRL
 
FIGURE 8 - Idle time distribution of MVA 
during simulation period 
4. Conclusions 
This research proposed lot release policies for 
color filter fabs based on iterative simulation. 
An AutoMod simulation model was developed 
and used to evaluate these policies on the basis 
of experimental design. ISR was demonstrated 
to be effective and efficient in improving 
throughputs. Production manager can use the 
AutoMod simulation model to preview the 
performance of lot release policy and make 
necessary revision to improve the throughput. 
5. Acknowledgements 
The research was supported by National 
Science Council of Taiwan, R.O.C. (Contract 
Nos. NSC 98-2221-E-011-157 and NSC 
98-2622-E-011-020-CC2) and Chunghwa 
Picture Tubes (CPT) Ltd., Taiwan R.O.C. 
6. References  
J. C. Chen, Y. C. Fan and C. W. Chen, "Capacity 
Requirements Planning for Twin Fabs of Wafer 
Fabrication," Int. J. Prod. Res. 47, No. 16, pp. 
4473-4496, 2009. 
J. C. Chen, P. B. Huang, C. J. Sun, K. J. Chao, G. C. 
Chao, "Simulation Modeling of TFT-LCD 
Color Filter Fab," The 16th International 
Display Workshops (IDW 2009), Miyazaki, 
Japan, pp. 789-792, 2009. 
D. M. Chiang, R. S. Guo and F. Y. Pai, "Improved 
9 
7. 研究成果說明 
本計畫的成果分成實務應用與學術發表
兩方面，說明如下： 
實務應用 
本研究所發展的模擬模式，可在決策執
行前，先利用此模式進行What-If分析，評估
其績效再運用至現場，以減少對工廠現場之
干擾，並確保改善績效。此外，以反覆模擬
為基礎的投料策略亦經模擬測試驗證可行，
目前正與業界探討實務應用之可行性。 
學術發表 
本三年計劃的相關研究成果，已投稿至
面板領域兩種國際知名的研討會包括Society 
for Information Display (SID)與International 
Display Workshops (IDW)，另外亦投稿至
Advanced Design and Manufacturing (ADM)
皆已被接受，其中SID的論文發表數量被面板
廠視為研發績效的重要指標。本計畫發表於
SID的論文Release Planning for Color-Filter 
Fabs Based on Iterative Simulation，很榮幸受
SID邀請將此篇的完整成果投稿至Journal of 
the SID (JSID)，其邀請信函中提及受邀投稿
至JSID的比例低於7%。 
本研究團隊在彩色濾光片製造廠生產管
理領域已接受及發表的學術成果計有EI期刊
論文三篇，另外一篇SCI期刊邀稿，已投稿，
以及研討會論文九篇如下。未來將以在國際
研討會的研究成果為基礎進行後續研究，投
稿 至 國 際 期 刊 如 International Journal of 
Production Research (IJPR)，將此產業的生產
管理技術介紹給全世界認識，亦可提升台灣
此產業在全球的地位。 
z Publications: Journal Papers 
1. J. C. Chen, L. H. Su, C. C. Chen, T. W. 
Peng, G. C. Chao, 2010, Release Planning 
for Color Filter Fabs Based on Iterative 
Simulation, Journal of the Society for 
Information Display (SCI), (Invited and 
Submitted).    
2. J. C. Chen, L. H. Su, G. C. Chao, C. C. 
Chen, T. W. Peng, C. J. Sun, J. W. Chien, 
H. C. Chien, 2011, Advanced Planning 
and Scheduling for Color Filter Fabs, Key 
Engineering Materials, Vol. 450, pp. 361 – 
364 (EI).   
3. J. C. Chen, S. J. Hu, P. T. B. Huang, C. J. 
Lin, K. J. Chao, and C. C. Chen, 2010, 
Finite Capacity Planning for Multiple 
TFT-LCD Color Filter Fabs, Key 
Engineering Materials, Vols. 419-420, pp 
637-640 (EI).   
4. J. C. Chen, S. J. Hu, Y. H. Chen, C. L. 
Yang, C. J. Sun, C. W. Chen, 2010, 
Facility Planning for TFT-LCD Array Fab, 
Key Engineering Materials, Vols. 419-420, 
pp 641-644 (EI).   
z Publications: Conference Papers  
1. J. C. Chen, P. B. Huang, H. Y. Peng, M. C. 
Hung, T. W. Peng, Y. Y. Wei, C. H. Feng, 
Y. C. Liu, 2010, Integration of simulation 
and look-ahead release planning for color 
filter fabs , The 2nd POMS-HK 
Conference on The Hong Kong University 
of Science and Technology, HK, January 
6-7, 2011. (Submitted)  
2. 陳建良，孫正儒，黃博滄，彭惠瑜，洪
銘謙，陳志政，2010 ，彩色滤光片厂系
统仿真，中国科协海峡两岸青年科学家
学术活动月-“仿真科学与技术”学术研
讨会，中國福州，11/1/2010 - 11/3/2010。 
(Accepted) 
3. J. C. Chen, L. H. Su, G. C. Chao, C. C. 
Chen, T. W. Peng, C. J. Sun, J. W. Chien, 
H. C. Chien, 2010, Advanced Planning 
and Scheduling for Color Filter Fabs, The 
3rd International Conference on Advanced 
Design and Manufacturing (ADM 2010), 
Nottingham, UK, September 8 - 10, 2010.  
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 98-2221-E-011-157 
計畫名稱 彩色濾光片製造廠訂單分配、產能規劃、與機台派工研究(III) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
孫正儒 
中原大學工業與系統工程學系-博士生 
會議時間地點 Dec 9~11 , 2009, Miyazaki, Japan 
會議名稱 The 16th International Display Workshops 
發表論文題目 Simulation Modeling of TFT-LCD Color Filter Fab 
 
一、參加會議經過 
第 16 屆 “International Display Workshops（IDW）” 09 年於日本宮崎縣 (Miyazaki)的喜凱
亞(Phoenix Seagaia Resort)內世界會議中心高峰會廳 (World Convention Center Summit)舉行，
由 The Institute of Image Information and Television Engineers (ITE) 及 The Society For 
Information Display (SID)所主辦。該研討會為顯示器相關產業每年年末的一場盛會，全球的
顯示器大廠以及相關的材料廠商藉此宣示相關最新技術，學術界也藉以發表相關研究成果。
該研討會在 TFT-LCD 產業的研發、理論應用、製造技術領域，皆有相當重大之影響力。這也
是參與此次會議之重大原因。相關發佈包括 2 項 keynote addresses、2 項 invited addresses、99
項 invited papers、199 項 oral presentations 和 262 項 poster presentations 共計 564 項。 
因為國內直飛宮崎的班機於 2009 年 10 月起停航，且飛往福岡機場的早班機之班次亦較
少。所以本次行程於會議的前ㄧ天下午先行出發，從桃園國際機場飛日本福岡機場，抵達日
本後於福岡住宿一晚，隔天一早再搭乘日本國內線班機由福岡機場到達宮崎機場。 
本人論文報告被安排在 12 月 10 日的 poster presentations，屬於 Workshop on FPD 
Manufacturing, Materials and Components (FMC)，題目為" Simulation Modeling of TFT-LCD 
Color Filter Fab "。從這次的報告議程可以看到顯示器技術及研究者所關注的重點正在從追求
產品製造轉向發掘新技術。其中頗具代表性的就是輸入技術及電子紙技術的發表數量比 08 年
大幅增加。由於該研討會大多為研發技術，而台灣在全球 TFT-LCD 產業扮演著重要的腳色加
上本研究的主題為少數與生產製造管理有關，另於現場也以筆記型電腦展示本研究所發展的
二、與會心得 
此研討會來參加的各國學者與業界著重於技術理論與研發技術，相對於工業工程與管理
等學科的應用著墨相對較少。事實上面板產業與半導體產業相似性極高，皆為高資金、高技
術密集的產業高科技，由於面板產業的迅速成長但在生產管理的能力上與半導體產業相比之
下仍有進步空間。而面板產業的生產目前集中於台灣與韓國，因此在工業工程與管理的領域
我們擁有絕對的發展優勢。因此，儘管此研討會的重點不在於生產製造的領域，但相關的管
理技術，依然可以成為相關各產業的參考模式。而本研究則是拋磚引玉，期能夠讓此產業的
管理技術向上提升，增加企業的獲利能力。 
 
FMCp – 8, Inquiry 333, 16th International Display Workshops (IDW 2009), Miyazaki, Japan, 12, 2009 
composed of load ports, serial machines, and un-load 
ports.  The parameter of in-process-capacity 
indicates the upper limit of the work-in-process 
sheets that can be processed and stored in the 
operation at the same time.  Preventive 
maintenance is a schedule of planned maintenance 
actions aimed at the prevention of breakdowns and 
failures, and this parameter is set as the mean value 
in this study.  Tact time means the interval time 
between two sheets released to an operation, and it 
is a fixed time at each operation.  There exists 
sequence-dependent setup time indicating that the 
setup time of current product is influenced by the 
preceding product at the same operation.  The 
consideration of sequence-dependent setup time 
affects the workload accumulation at the operation.   
z Moving Tool: the AMHS in this model includes cranes 
and lifters.  The transportation between port and 
stocker is implemented by the cranes in the stocker.  
Lifters are used for the transportation of sheet 
cassettes crossing different floors.  Each cassette 
can store fifty sheets that are transported by cranes 
and lifters.  The transportation time applies to a 
cassette of sheets.  However, each individual sheet 
is processed at each operation step, and the 
processing time applies to one sheet.  
z Stocker: Initial WIP level in the stocker was built using 
the actual amount of WIP at the beginning of data 
collection in the real fab, i.e., May 2008.  Eight 
stockers in this fab and more than one thousand 
available shelves in all stockers are modeled in the 
AutoMod simulation model as shown in Fig. 4.  
There is one crane in each stocker.  The priority 
setting of cassettes accessing cranes affects the 
crane behavior and the performance of stocker.  The 
location of cassette is a key parameter affecting this 
cassette’s priority.   
z Lot: The routine defines the sequence of steps 
required to manufacture a product.  Different types 
of products will follow different routines.  Twenty 
product types with three different routines are 
considered in this simulation study.  The dispatching 
rule of lot is set as first in first out (FIFO), and neither 
hot lots nor rush orders are considered.   
3. SIMULATION AND EXPERIMENTS 
To validate the simulation model to ensure its high 
representation of the real CF fab, a series of comparison 
between simulated data (using one month simulated time 
length) and fab data were conducted.  It takes about ten 
hours to make a simulation run of one month simulated 
time on a high-level personal computer, and this shows 
the complexity of the AutoMod simulation model.  Table 
1 summarizes the comparison of monthly throughput at 
each operation between simulation model and the real 
fab.  Among the 14 observations (one observation at 
each step and there are two lines each with seven steps), 
there are ten observations less than or equal to 5% 
difference.  In the worst case, the difference reaches 
12.2% at ITO step in line 2, while in the best case, it is 
0.8% at R step in line 2.  With only limited gap in 
throughput performance between the simulation model 
and the real fab, this AutoMod simulation model is 
representative and can be used to conduct “what-if” 
analysis by simulating and evaluating different 
improvement alternatives (such as order assignment, lot 
release, and dispatching) before any policy is applied to 
the shop floor in practice.   
4. CONCLUSIONS 
This simulation model can help to reduce the 
disturbance of potential improvement policies to the shop 
floor and ensure the success of the policy before it is 
really implemented.  This model is currently partially 
implemented in the evaluation and selection of order 
assignment and lot release policies in the CF fab under 
study. 
5. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
The research was supported by National Science 
Council of Taiwan, R.O.C. (Contract Nos. NSC 
97-2221-E-033-027 and NSC 98-2221-011-157) and 
Chunghwa Picture Tubes (CPT) Ltd., Taiwan R.O.C. 
6. REFERENCES 
[1] J. C. Chen, C. C. Chen, C. N. Mo, T. W. Peng, G. C. 
Chao, C. J. Sun, K. J. Chao, J. W. Chien, Y. Y. Wei, 
C. H. Feng, Y. C. Liu, and M. T. Chiang,  “Effective 
Order Release and Dispatching for Color Filter 
Fabs,” Society for Information Display (SID) 2009, 
San Antonio, Texas, USA, May 2009, 
pp.1309-1312.  
[2] J. C. Chen, C. C. Chen, C. N. Mo, T. W. Peng, G. C. 
Chao, C. J. Sun, K. J. Chao, J. W. Chien, Y. Y. Wei, 
C. H. Feng, Y. C. Liu, and M. T. Chiang, “Infinite 
Capacity Planning for Color Filter Fabs,” 
International Display Manufacturing Conference 
(IDMC) 2009, Taipei, Taiwan, April 2009. 
[3] B. C. Park, E. S. Park, B. H. Kim, B. K. Choi, and J. H. 
Lee, “Simulation based planning and scheduling 
system for TFT-LCD fab,” Proceedings of the 2008 
Winter Simulation Conference, WSC 2008, pp. 
2271-2276, 2008. 
[4] D. D. Pillai, E. L. Bass, J.C. Dempsey, and E. J. 
Yelling, “300-mm full factory simulation for 90- and 
65-nm IC manufacturing,” IEEE Transactions on 
Semiconductor Manufacturing, Vol. 17, No. 3, 2004, 
pp. 292-298. 
[5] K. Potti, and A. Gupta, “ASAP application of 
simulation modeling in a wafer fab,” Proceedings of 
the Winter Simulation Conference, 2002, pp. 
1846-1848. 
[6] F. K. Wang and J. T. Lin, “Performance evaluation of 
FMCp – 8, Inquiry 333, 16th International Display Workshops (IDW 2009), Miyazaki, Japan, 12, 2009 
 
 
Fig. 4  Stockers’ shelves in AutoMod simulation model developed in this research  
 
 
Table 1 Comparison of throughput of individual operation between AutoMod simulation model and the real fab   
 
Monthly Throughput BM R G B ITO MVA FI 
Line1 Difference (%) -1.2% -4.5% -4.3% -4.4% -3.4% -5.0% -4.1% 
Line2 Difference (%) 6.4% -0.8% 3.2% 6.5% 12.2% 4.2% 5.2% 
Average  -3.7% -2.6% -0.5% 1.1% 4.4% -0.9% 0.6% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
模擬模型，因此前來參閱 poster 與討論的學術界與工業界人數不少，個人也樂於與其分享過
去與業界合作的生產製造管理經驗。從圖中的報到與參觀人潮即可看出現場 Poster 參觀人數
相當多，討論也相當熱烈。 
 
 
圖 1 會場入口報到處 圖 2 報告時間表 
 
圖 3 Poster報到處 圖 4 Poster presentations 
圖 5 Poster參觀人潮 圖 6 展覽會場 
 
 
 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
因本研究之成果，使本團隊有機會與中華映管共同向國科會提出一開發型大產
學合作計畫－彩色濾光片廠先進規劃排程之研發，此計畫的經費由國科會與中
華映管共同支付，已獲國科會通過並執行中。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
