1 
A Method to Construct 3D Equipment Connectivity Models Based on Shared 
Solid Model and Database 
NSC 99-2221-E-022-018精簡報告 
 
Abstract 
 This research has developed the concepts of spatial 
pipe graph, and, from such concepts, a three-dimensional 
Equipment Connectivity Model (ECM) has been 
invented.  In the ECM, equipment sets are nodes 
(located at in 3D space), and interconnected 2-port pipe 
components form edges to connect the nodes.  Methods 
to layout the ECM have been developed and 
implemented as two prototype tools: Equipment Editor 
and Pipe Graph Editor, using PML—the PDMS interface 
language.  The ECM of the Turbocharger Lubricating 
Oil System of a commercial ship has been developed and 
demonstrates that the ECM has potential to replace 
traditional piping system diagrams. 
Keywords: Piping System Diagram, Piping System 
Detail Design 
 
1. Background and Motivation 
 In an early stage of piping system functional 
design processes of a ship, traditionally, piping system 
diagrams (Fig. 1) would be developed to describe the 
flows of specific types of fluid among related equipment 
sets in a power plant, a chemical plant or the engine 
room of a ship.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1  A traditional piping system diagram (T/C L. O. 
System) 
 In the diagram, schematic representations of the 
projections of equipment sets are expressed by 2D lines 
and curves; the directions of the flows (or connectivity) 
between equipment sets are expressed by interconnected 
line segments and arrows; measurement instruments and 
flow control devices (such as temperature or pressure 
gauges and valves) on the pipeline are expressed 
symbolically; nominal diameters, piping system 
identifications, and serial numbers of the pipelines are 
listed near by the line segments representing the 
pipelines, and texts are inserted near by the equipment 
representations to provide additional descriptions (such 
as names of the equipment sets).  A piping system 
diagram traditionally is printed on an A3 paper.  The 
positions of the equipment sets shown in the diagrams (1) 
are so arranged to make the lines, curves, and texts in 
diagrams easily to find, read, and understand and, 
however, (2) are not related to the real positions or 
orientations of the equipment sets in the engine room. 
 In the diagrams, pipe components such as reducers, 
thermal sensors, pressure gauges, electric switches, 
various valves etc. are expressed symbolically, and each 
of them has assigned an identification number.   
 As the piping system diagrams is a 2D draft, the 
total numbers of various valves, sensors, gauges, 
switches, reducers needed to construct the piping 
systems can only be manually summarized.  The 
summary work is time consuming and easy to burry 
human mistakes, and this summary work can get worse 
as many design revisions could be requested or made to 
the piping system diagrams in the class and ship owner 
approval processes. 
 But, the piping system diagram is the key reference 
for piping detail design, in which detail 3D pipe routes 
will be determined and expressed in 3D models (or 2D 
drawings).  After laying out the 3D pipe routes models 
in the piping system detail design process, engineers 
need to manually check the consistency between the 
piping system diagrams and 3D pipe route models.  
That is to check if every pipe component shown in the 
diagrams has been included in the 3D piping route 
models or on the equipment models, because the 3D pipe 
route models are the basis from which piping system 
manufacturing work starts. 
 Advances in modern CAD systems and associated 
databases have brought engineers not only powerful 
statistic and retrieval functions, but also parameterized 
CAD model design.  The traditional piping design 
process—(a) piping system diagram, (b) manual 
summarization of pipe components, (c) 3D piping route 
design, and (d) manual consistency check--can be 
simplified to directly carry out both the piping system 
diagram design and pipe route design in a 3D mode and 
use database retrieval and statistic functions to replace 
manual checking and summarization.  Such an advance 
motivates this research work.   
 The 3D Equipment Connectivity Model (ECM) 
developed in this research is a spatial version of a 
traditional piping system diagram, however, in the ECM 
(1) the 3D CAD models of equipment sets are positioned 
 
3 
equipment node in a pipe graph and (2) on the envelop 
edges that form an envelop to (a) enclose a loop or 
coupled loops surrounding the equipment sets considered 
and (b) enclose the flow-control valves and flow-status 
monitoring instruments on the envelop edges of the 
equipment sets considered is the envelop points of the 
equipment set(s). 
Peripheral Pipes  A set of peripheral pipes of a 
surrounded equipment set(s) is a set of interconnected 
floating nodes and edges (or edge components) that sits 
between the surrounded equipment and an envelop 
point . 
Example 
 Take a portion of a Diesel engine cooling fresh water 
piping system diagram shown in Fig. 4 as an example.  
In the figure, the node entities are high lighted by solid 
circles.   
 Figure 4 indicates that a control valve and three 
Tees are used in the peripheral pipes of the fresh water 
coolers.  The control valve (K) joins the cooling fresh 
water from the fresh water generator and from the 
coolers, and the valve outlets to a Tee (M) which braches 
the fresh water to the inlets of the two coolers.  Another 
Tee (G) joins the fresh water from the outlets of the 
coolers and outlets to the other Tee (H) which branches 
the fresh water to the control valve (K) and to the jacket 
cooling fresh water pumps.   
  The edge-node representation of the diagrams shown 
in Fig. 4 is shown in Fig. 5, in which a single-break-line 
symbol indicates an envelop point and a portion of the 
graph (or the system diagram) have been ignored.  
Figure 5 indicates that there is a set of coupled loops 
surrounding the fresh water coolers (nodes E and F).  
The coupled loops are composed of paths E-G-F-M-E, 
G-H-K-M-F-G, and E-G-H-K-M-E. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
` 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4  Portion of the jacket cooling fresh water 
system diagram of a ship 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5  Graph representation of the piping system 
diagram corresponding to Fig. 4 
3. Method 
 A 3D Equipment Connectivity Model (ECM), such 
as the one shown in Fig. 2 is a 3D pipe graph.  In an 
ECM or a pipe graph, (1) a node represents (a) a fixed 
equipment set (such as tank, reservoir, or pump, cooler, 
etc.) positioned according to the arrangement design of 
the engine room or (b) a floating 3-port pipe component 
(such as a Tee, control valves, 3-way valve, etc.) and (2) 
an edge connecting a pair of nodes is a set of 
interconnected orthogonal pipes along which various and 
necessary 2-port pipe components have been inserted. 
 Like a piping system diagram, an ECM describes 
the connectivity between equipment sets of a ship engine 
room or a power plant in a three-dimensional and 
node-edge format, however, not the three-dimensional 
pipe routes.  The ECM is developed not only to replace 
the traditional piping system diagrams, but also (a) to 
simplify the process and reduce the man-hour needed for 
piping system detail design and (b) to layout a 
foundation to integrate and use advanced piping design 
automation methods.  
 To building ECMs, methods to construct (1) 3D 
models of the equipment sets and 3-port pipe 
components and (2) 3D edges between nodes must be 
developed.  This research has developed two 
computer-based tools to construct 3D ECMs: (1) 
Equipment Editor and (2) Pipe Graph Editor, using 
PDMS [8] and its Programmable Macro Langue (PML) 
[9]. 
 
3.1 Equipment Editor 
 Equipment Editor is a set of PDMS customization 
modules to edit/modify the geometries, positions, and 
orientations of specific machinery sets such as oil/water 
tanks, pressure reservoirs, pumps, coolers/heaters, etc.  
The purpose of such a customization development is to 
simplify the work in building equipment models.  The 
approach taken in this research to simplify the equipment 
modeling process is to 
(1) provide or use pre-made sample CAD models of 
typical equipment sets and  
(2) provide user interfaces to modify (a) the positions 
and orientations of existing entities including 
equipment sets, their accessories (such as a 
man-hole cover), and geometric primitives (such as 
cylinders or boxes) and (b) the dimensions of the 
geometry primitives of the equipment models. 
 The Equipment Editor can be fetched from the 
Piping Design Assistants (PDA) in the main menu bar of 
a customized PDMS Design module (Fig. 6), and tank 
editing and pump editing are two sets of functions 
implemented in this research for testing and 
demonstration the concepts and methods of the 
Equipment Editor (Fig. 7). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
H
G 
E 
M
N 
K 
F
S 
H G
E
F
MK 
S 
From F. W. 
Generator 
N 
To J. C. F. 
W. Pumps 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 11  Modify Primitive From 
(c) Modifying position and orientation of entity model 
 If the position and orientation of a downloaded 
sample tank or the selected tank accessories need to be 
adjusted, the move and rotate options provided in the 
Equipment Editor Form (Fig. 7) can conduct those 
position and/or orientation modifications. 
(d) Generic Editor 
 It should be noted that the Modify Primitive Form 
and Equipment Editor Form are generic to each type of 
equipment sets.  In fact, it has been tested that the 
Equipment Editor functions can also be applied to 
modify the positions, orientations, and geometric 
parameters of the geometric primitives of equipment sets 
loaded from various sources in PDMS.  Hence, 
engineers can download various equipment models from 
the equipment catalogues of PDMS and modify the 
equipment models for specific purposes. 
 
3.2 Pipe Graph Editor 
 Piping system design processes carried out in most 
shipyards can be divided into two phases: functional 
design and detail design.  Piping System Diagrams (for 
instance, the diagram shown in Fig. 1) and Pipe Design 
Specification Table [10] are the two important sets of 
design information specified in traditional piping system 
functional design phase.  This research proposes 
developing ECMs to replace the piping system diagrams, 
and Equipment Editor and Pipe Graph Editor are the 
tools for laying out the ECMs. 
 In the detail design phase, edges of the ECM will 
be replaced by pipe assemblies, which are series of 
interconnected 2-port pipe components.  The main 
design information specified in the detail design phase is 
the pipe routes of piping systems.  A pipe route between 
nodes (such as equipment sets, Tees, control valves, etc.) 
is a geometric layout of a pipe assembly connecting the 
nodes.  Relative to the edges in ECM, the additional 
information specified in pipe route design includes the 
true locations, orientations, and sizes of 2-port pipe 
components in 3D space. 
 As discussed in pipe graph, the connectivity 
between the nodes specified in the pipe graph of a piping 
system can be divided into two types of connectivity 
region: (a) the nets of equipment peripheral pipes and (b) 
the remaining nets (ones between the nets of equipment 
peripheral pipes).   
 Take the pipe graph shown in Fig. 5 as an example.  
The peripheral pipes of nodes E and F (two coolers) are 
the edges and nodes in the coupled loops sitting between 
envelop points N and S.  The remaining nets are the 
edges and nodes between envelop points.  In this 
research, an edge between two envelop points (not the 
loops) in ECM is defined according to the concept of 
orthogonal pipe assembly [11, 12]. 
 The Pipe Graph Editor provides functions to edit 
the pipe graph (ECM) of the peripheral pipes as well as 
the pipe graph of the remaining edges and nodes.  It 
should be noted that, first, the ECM is a spatial graph in 
which an edge is only intend to express the connectivity 
between nodes as well as the flow status measurement 
instruments and flow control devices between nodes 
which are located in 3D space.  Second, even though an 
edge in ECM is composed of edge components which 
include elbows, pipe segments, etc. and makes an edge a 
3D entity, the positions, orientations, and sizes of the 3D 
edges layout in the ECM do not represent the 3D routes 
of the pipes connecting the nodes.  The pipe routes have 
never been considered in the functional design phase or 
in ECMs.  Third, the 3D edges of ECMs may collide 
with other equipment sets, engine room structure 
members, ladders, etc., but such collision situations have 
never been concerned when developing ECMs. 
 Contras to the Pipe Graph editor, the pipe-net 
based piping arrangement design method is developed 
for designing the detail pipe routes of the nets of the 
peripheral pipes of a equipment set or sets (such as nodes 
E and F in Figs. 4 and 5), while the pipe-trunk based 
piping arrangement design method is for determining the 
pipe routes of the remaining nets. 
A Spatial Graph Editing Tool  
 To assist engineers to quickly develop Equipment 
Connectivity Models (ECMs), a customizing PDMS 
approach has been taken in this research.  A module 
called “Pipe Graph Editor” (PGE) has been developed 
using PML, for engineers to specify ECMs of engine 
room systems in a 3D mode.   
 In other words, the assistance provided in the Pipe 
Graph Editor is mainly short-cut facilities (or wrapped 
PML codes and model information) for laying out 3D 
edge-node models.  However, the basic pipe modeling 
functions and the information structure of piping systems 
provided in the PDMS have been used together with the 
Pipe Graph Editor.  For instance, a pipe branch should 
be created under a zone in the pipework design of the 
PDMS.   
 Figure 12 shows the Form of the Editor fetched 
from the “Pipe Graph Editor” menu option of PDA in the 
main menu bar of the customized PDMS (Fig. 6). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 12  Pipe Graph Editor Form 
7 
(f) using a set of orthogonal pipes to represent an edge 
 In the ECM, a single edge connecting two envelop 
points is modeled as a set of orthogonal pipes.  For 
example, the pipes between envelop points A and B 
shown in Fig. 13 is an edge in ECM.  However, the 
locations, orientations and lengths of the orthogonal 
pipes between points A and B will be ignored in the 
detail pipe route design phase, as this pipe set (in Fig. 13) 
indicates nothing but connectivity between nodes, and it 
has not thing to do with real pipe routes.  
(g) inserting temperature and pressure gauges into the 
pipeline 
 Along a pipeline and, very often, near by the 
equipment set (such as a pump or cooler), there are 
temperature and/or pressure gauges installed.  The 
PDMS commands to create a gauge and insert the gauge 
to the pipeline are wrapped and can be launched from a 
“TEMP GAUGE” or “PRESSURE GAUGE” button in 
the Pipe Graph Editor Form.  Figure 16 shows an 
example of pipeline with temperature and pressure 
gauges inserted.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 16  Pipeline with valve as well as temperature 
and pressure gauges 
 Second, through the Equipment Loader Form (Fig. 
17) following two functions are available:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 17  Equipment Loader Form 
(h) wrapping the download actions of existing node 
models 
 Each button shown in the Equipment Loader Form 
(Fig. 17), except the “Id. EQUI” button, wraps the 
commands to load the DB List text file of an entity 
model into a specified PDMS zone, including a 3-way 
valve, turbocharger, strainer, cooler, main engine, pump, 
tank, etc.  
(i) displaying the names of selected equipment sets 
 In PDMS, when creating a set of records for an 
entity (such as a pump) in the design model database, 
engineers can specify a name for the entity.  To make 
ECM more readable, the names of equipment sets in the 
database can be retrieved and displayed at any place near 
by the projections of the equipment sets in ECMs.  The 
“Id. EQUI” button in the Equipment Loader Form is 
designed to activate the wrapped PML commends to 
retrieve and display the equipment name.  However, the 
entity names will not be displayed in ECMs in a default 
situation, unless it is requested.  
 Figure 18 shows the situation when the name of a 
pump has been brought up and displayed in the ECM. 
 Third, through the Valve and Gauge Identifier 
Form (Fig. 19) user can carry out the following 
specification. 
(j) specifying identification numbers for valves and 
gauges 
 Similar to the traditional piping system diagrams, 
each valve and gauge in ECMs can be assigned with a 
unique identification text/number through the Identifier 
Form (Fig. 19).  The identification text/number will be 
displayed only in the member list window (see Fig. 20) 
and stored in database of the PDMS.  In the future 
implementation, the identification text/number can be 
display in a similar way as displaying the entity name in 
ECMs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 18  Pump with its name shown up 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 19  Valve and Gauge Identifier Form   
3.3 Database Evolvement to Pipe Route Design 
Models 
 Generally speaking, ECMs have two application 
modes: manual reference mode and predecessor mode.  
In the manual reference mode, the connectivity as well as 
the measurement instruments and flow control devices 
specified in ECMs are the guideline for developing the 
pipe route design models in the piping system detail 
design phase.  In this application mode, the databases of 
the ECMs and pipe route models are two independent 
ones.  Engineers need to check if the pipe route model 
is consistent with the corresponding ECM. 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) Top view of Main Floor Arrangement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Elevated view from frames 59 to 86 
Figure 23  Portion of engine room arrangement 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 24  ECM of T/C L. O. System (projection 1) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 25  ECM of T/C L. O. System (projection 2) 
 
5. Conclusions and Further Work 
Conclusions 
 The concepts of three-dimensional Equipment 
Connectivity Models (ECMs) have been developed and 
demonstrated in this research.  The ECM is a spatial 
pipe graph, in which equipment sets are nodes (located at 
engine room 3D space) connected by series of and 
interconnected 2-port pipe components form edges 
(which mainly describe connectivity among equipment 
sets). 
 The research also has developed a method and 
implemented as prototypes of a tool set—Equipment 
Editor and Pipe Graph Editor—to assist engineers to 
layout the ECM.  The Equipment Editor provides 
engineers a class of graphical user interfaces to define 
and modify the geometries, positions, and orientations of 
equipment, its accessories, and basic geometric 
primitives in a parameterized way.  Similarly, the Pipe 
Graph Editor allows engineers to download, position, 
and rotate pipe components to construct spatial edges to 
connect equipment sets (or nodes). 
 The ECM of the T/C L. O. System of a commercial 
ship has been developed in the research.  It 
demonstrates the concepts of ECMs (or spatial pipe 
graphs) and tested the functionality of the usage of 
Equipment Editor and Pipe Graph Editor. 
Further Work 
 The development of ECMs has just begun, prior to 
replacing traditional piping system diagrams, many 
foreseeable work for ECMs becomes clear after the 
development of this research, which includes. 
1. Provide additional functions in the Equipment Editor 
to model control valves and rest types of commonly 
used edge components and to provide more closed 
link with PDMS databases or in-depth information 
retrieving mechanisms. 
2. Develop a generic 3D graphics viewer and provide it 
with a simple database, such that the 3D ECMs can 
be reviewed on computers without PDMS, and 
engineers can retrieve more detail design 
information from the ECMs and databases. 
East 
North
Up 
East North
Up
Lower Eng. Flat
(BL=12,380)
Main Floor 
(BL=4,750)
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/11/01
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以共用資料庫與立體模型為基礎之機艙裝備連接關係立體模型建制方法
計畫主持人: 吳景凱
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-022-018- 學門領域: 造船工程 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 管圖編輯器
(英文) Pipe Graph Editor
成果歸屬機構
國立高雄海洋科技大學 發明人
(創作人)
吳景凱,洪文恭,柯丞遠,楊崇和
技術說明
(中文) 管圖編輯器是PDMS軟體之客製化模組，協助工程師參數式的製作裝備模型(譬如
油水櫃、泵等之CAD立體模型)、建立裝備連接關係模型(ECM)，以取代管路系統
圖或P&ID圖 
裝備連接關係模型用三維CAD模型來敘述裝備連接關係，讓管路功能設計進入立
體設計模式 
此編輯器所運用之技術包括：三維管圗以及PML程式語言。其提供之主要功能包
括：以三維垂直管路以及內定直徑代表連接關係模型的邊(Edge)，允許更改ECM
中各個邊的直徑與規範，封包PDMS下載管路元件及裝備模型之指令，以參數化方
式平移與旋轉各類模型，封包PDMS裡閥與歧管、彎管、進出口之連接指令，封包
PDMS裡插安溫度表與壓力表入管線之指令，允許輸入管線及閥等之編號，在立體
模型裡顯示裝備名稱等。 
(英文) “Pipe Graph Editor” is a module running in PDMS environment. It assists engineers to 
develop equipment 3D CAD models in parameterized way as well as develop Equipment 
Connectivity Model (ECM). 
In the ECM, equipment sets are nodes (located at in 3D space), and interconnected 2-port 
pipe components form edges to connect the nodes (such as pumps, coolers, etc.). 
The ECM provides the following functions: representing an edge as a set of 
interconnected orthogonal 3D pipes, wrapping the download actions of the models of 
existing pipe components and equipments, using default size and specification for pipe 
components, rotating and shifting pipe components in a parameterized way, packaging 
the connection operations between valve and elbow, nozzle, and Tee, inserting temp. and 
press. gauges into the pipeline, displaying the names of selected equipment sets, 
specifying id. numbers for valves and gauges, and allowing engineers to modify the diam. 
and specification of pipe components. 
產業別 化學業；營造業；海事工程業
技術/產品應用範圍 管路系統設計
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
技術移轉僅需PDMS (或AVEVA Marine)軟體系統及Windows 7 
應用效益包括： 
财 方便地建立裝備連接關係模型(ECM) 
财 省下傳統上花在檢測管路佈置模型與Piping System Diagram的一致性之時間 
财 省下人工統計製造管路所需管路元件種類與數量之時間 
财 
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本計畫所發展之裝備連接關係模型(ECM)是兩大管路佈置設計自動化之基礎，三
者整合運用將可大幅提升管路設計效能。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
