 2
 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
摻雜物引導成長之硫化鎘四足狀奈米結構 
Dopant-Induced Formation of Nanosized CdS Tetrapods 
 
計畫編號：NSC-96-2218-E-009-007 
執行期限：96 年 08 月 01 日至 97 年 07 月 31 日 
主持人：徐雍鎣  交通大學材料系 
 
Abstract 
CdS tetrapods of high morphological yields can be obtained with a simple solvothermal process 
by simply incorporating Se or Te as dopant in the process. It is proposed for the first time that 
dopant Se or Te can kinetically transform the growth habit of CdS nuclei from the typical 
wurtzite (WZ) to zinc blende (ZB) phase, thus making the formation of multi-armed structures 
much easier. Upon addition of Se or Te, CdS turns to nucleate in ZB phase, instead of the typical 
WZ phase, from which the subsequent one-dimensional growth of WZ arms leads to the 
formation of the tetrapods. The doping inducement effect on the tetrapod/tripod formation may 
give new insights into the manipulation and controllability of anisotropic nanocrystal growth. The 
present finding can be readily extended to other semiconductors possessing ZB-WZ 
polymorphism. 
關鍵字：cadmium sulfide (硫化鎘), crystal growth (晶體成長), doping (摻雜) 
 
 
1. Introduction 
Tetrapods, a unique example of these 
anisotropically-shaped NCs, find potential 
applications in nanocomposites and nano-scale 
devices. For example, because of the 
three-dimensionally extending structures, 
tetrapods may be a promising building unit for 
preparation of interesting superstructures for 
nano-electronics, especially three-dimensional 
(3D) prototypes.[1] In addition, semiconductor 
tetrapods have potential advantages in hybrid 
NC/polymer photovoltaic devices because their 
3D structures make it facile for them to orderly 
align toward the electrodes within the polymer 
film, providing direct charge carrier 
transportation pathway to improve the device 
performance.[2] The most often observed 
crystallographic feature of these tetrapod NCs 
is one cubic zinc blende (ZB) core attached 
with four hexagonal wurzite (WZ) arms. 
Evidently, to form such novel architecture, one 
should have the crystals nucleate in ZB phase 
followed by anisotropic growth in WZ phase. 
The ability of crystals to switch from one 
growth mode to another during a continuous 
reaction is thus crucial to achieving the tetrapod 
growth. Here, we report a novel approach to 
facilitate the formation of CdS tetrapods by 
simply incorporating a trace amount of dopants 
in a solvothermal process. The crystallographic 
structure of the tetrapods was examined with a 
high-resolution transmission electron 
microscope (HRTEM), which showed that the 
tetrapod had a ZB core and four WZ arms. A 
plausible mechanism for the tetrapod growth 
was proposed and discussed. 
 
2. Experimental Section  
The syntheses of nanowires, Se-doped 
tetrapods, and Te-doped tetrapods of CdS were 
carried out in a solvothermal process. For the 
preparation of CdS NWs, Cd(NO3)2·4H2O 
(1.85 g, 0.006 moles) and S powder (0.19 g, 
0.006 moles) were added to an ethylenediamine 
(EN, 100 ml) containing flask (250 ml). After a 
5 min stirring, the solution turned straw-yellow, 
and the solution was transferred to a 
teflon-lined stainless steel autoclave (with a 
capacity of 120 ml). The autoclave was sealed, 
heated, and maintained at 180oC for 24 hrs. For 
the synthesis of Se-doped CdS tetrapods, 
Cd(NO3)2·4H2O (1.85 g, 0.006 moles), S 
 4
the two insets of Figure 3(b). The existence of 
the ZB phase in the resulting tetrapod can be 
further confirmed by the HRTEM image shown 
in Figure 3(c), taken on the intersectional 
region of a tripod. An evident difference in 
lattice fringes between the core region and the 
three arms was revealed, indicating distinct 
crystal phases therein. The lattice fringes of the 
three {111} facets imply that the ZB core can 
be attached with four arms leading to a 
tetrahedral structure. The three arms show a 
0.34 nm interlayer spacing, which can be 
indexed as the spacing in the WZ-[0001] 
direction. The lattice-matched planes between 
the ZB core and the WZ arms imply an 
epitaxial relationship. From the results 
presented above, it can be concluded that the 
Se-doped and Te-doped CdS tetrapods obtained 
in this work possessed a ZB core, with WZ 
arms grown out of the equivalent {111} facets 
of the ZB core. 
There have been developed quite a few 
approaches for preparation of nanosized 
semiconductor tetrapods. Most of them are 
based on the growth energy difference 
between ZB and WZ phases, through which 
the nanocrystal growth can switch from one 
phase to another. Typically, through suitably 
controlling the temperature of growth,[4] the 
concentration of precursors,[5] or by applying 
specific capping ligands in the reaction,[6] 
tetrapod nanocrystals can be obtained in 
single-step processes. Besides, a two-step 
sequential growth technique, in which the 
first-prepared ZB core served as the seeds 
for the subsequent growth of WZ arms, can 
also generate this architecture. For the CdTe 
case, the energy difference between ZB and 
WZ phases is appropriately large[7] to enable 
easy controls over the growth of ZB core and 
WZ arms to form tetrapod nanocrystals. 
However, it has been pointed out that this 
energy difference is too small to facilitate 
controllable tetrapod formation for CdS, 
CdSe, and ZnS.[2a] In our experiments, we 
found that it was the incorporation of dopant 
Se or Te that caused the formation of CdS 
tetrapods through increasing the energy 
difference between the two phases. Note that 
the energy difference for II-VI 
semiconductors between WZ and ZB phases 
increases monotonically as the anions 
become larger in atomic size.[7] It is thus 
reasonable that upon incorporation of Se or 
Te atoms, the growth energy difference 
between ZB and WZ phases for CdS is 
significantly enlarged. As a result, the 
growth of starting ZB seeds and subsequent 
WZ arms can proceed in a single-pot 
process.  
A plausible growth mechanism for the 
formation of Se-doped and Te-doped CdS 
tetrapods is proposed as follows. At the 
beginning of the reaction, Se and Te 
incorporation resulted in the growth of CdS 
nuclei in ZB phase with four equivalent {111} 
facets exposed, as evident from the HRTEM 
image shown in Figure 3(b). The first formed 
ZB CdS nanoparticles then served as the 
seeds for the WZ arms to grow from them. 
The arm diameter of the resulting tetrapods 
may be adjusted by controlling the size of 
the ZB seeds. Note that the lattice 
arrangement of Cd and S atoms on the {111} 
planes of ZB phase are identical to those on 
the WZ-(0001) plane.[5a] Furthermore, the 
{111} planes in ZB CdS are epitaxially 
matched with the WZ-(0002) planes due to 
the closeness in their d-spacings 
(dZB(111)≒dWZ(0002)=0.34 nm). Both the 
atomic arrangement and lattice spacing 
matches contributed to the CdS tetrapod 
formation of this work. The solvent EN also 
played an important role here. In a typical 
case, WZ CdS NWs grew with a preferential 
direction along the c-axis under the 
inducement of EN.[8] In this situation, EN 
tended to attach to the {10-10} planes and 
suppress the growth rate of these planes, 
while the (0001) planes, covered with the 
least amount of EN, grew the fastest. Thus, it 
was the different adsorption ability of EN 
toward different planes of CdS nanocrystals 
that made the one-dimensional growth of 
WZ arms possible. By suitably controlling 
the synthetic conditions, such as reaction 
temperature, heating rate, and reactant 
concentration, it is possible to reduce the 
arm diameter of the tetrapod-shaped 
nanocrystals. This task can be achieved 
 6
 
Figure 1. SEM images of (a) CdS NWs, (b) Se-doped CdS tetrapods, and (c) Te-doped CdS 
tetrapods. (d) XRD patterns of the as-synthesized samples with the reference hexagonal CdS 
(JCPDS # 06-0314) included for comparison. 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Typical TEM images of an individual (a) CdS NW, (b) Se-doped CdS tetrapod, and (c) 
Te-doped CdS tetrapod. Their corresponding lattice-resolved images are shown in (d), (e), and (f), 
respectively. 
 8
計畫成果自評 
 
1. 在合成一維 CdS 奈米線異質結構之研究上，利用外加摻雜物(Se 與 Te)於熱溶劑成長系統
中，可進一步改變 CdS 晶體之成核與成長模式，成功製備 Se-doped CdS 與 Te-doped CdS
之奈米四足狀結構，此四足狀奈米結構可應用於光電傳輸元件上。(published in Small 2008, 
4, 951-955) 
2. 以熱溶劑法所製備之 CdS 奈米線，其表面所具有之官能基(乙二胺)可被用於還原金屬離
子，並成長金屬奈米顆粒於奈米線表面，以形成金屬/半導體奈米線之異質結構，此異質
結構可應用於光觸媒與光電池元件上。(published in Chem. Mater. 2008, 20, 2854-2856) 
3. 於化學氣相沈積系統中，成功製備 Mn 原子摻雜之半導體 CdSe 奈米線，係所謂稀磁性半
導體奈米線，此複合奈米線於室溫下展現出超順磁性質，可乃具有發展為生物磁性標誌劑
與生物磁性顯影劑之用途。(published in J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, in press) 
4. 我們已達成預期的研究成果。 
5. 此研究計畫之研究成果已發表在頂級國際期刊 Small (SCI IF: 6.408)、Chem. Mater. (SCI IF: 
4.883)與 J. Phys. Chem. C.。 
