aceIn the past several years, wear of UHMWPE has been
dramatically reduced by using highly cross-linked UHMWPE
(x-UHMWPE) [7–9]. However, the effects of smaller x-
UHMWPE wear particles on the biological responses are not
clear. Therefore, there still exists feasibility to further improve
the lubrication and to reduce the wear of the artificial joints in
vivo. To do this, further understanding of the lubrication
mechanism of synovial fluid on the articulation of artificial
joints is needed.
1.2. Biological lubrication
Based on the above reasons, further measurements of the
interactions of synovial fluid and its compositions with the
articulation of artificial joints are necessary. We need to further
understand what happens to the most abundant protein in
synovial fluid-albumin under a tribological process of the
artificial joint materials. While under the high load and low
speed condition of joint articulation, the squeezed molecules at
the interface are responsible for protecting the articulating
materials [10]. Therefore, the synovial mediated lubrication can
be classified as a boundary lubrication mechanism [11]. Many
researchers studied the friction behaviors of artificial joint
under various biological lubricants [12–16]. It was also
indicated that the frictional heat might lead to the chemical
reactions of protein lubricants [17]. Typical pin-on-disk wear
tests were also performed to investigate the effect of biological
lubricants on the wear rate of UHMWPE [18–20]. Fang et al.
[21–23] further designed an accelerated wear testing procedure
to compare the wear of UHMWPE under different biological
lubricants. This accomplishment enabled the bioactivity
evaluation of different sizes and shapes of UHMWPE wear
particles [24]. The influence of biological lubricant on the
morphology of UHMWPE wear particles with surface textures
have been reported [22]. From an engineering viewpoint,
synovial fluid can be viewed as a lubricant containing albumin
proteins, globulin proteins, lipids, hyaluronic acid, etc. Among
which, 56% are albumin. It is also indicated that the albumin
contents in the synovial fluid decreased to 42% in rheumatoid
arthritis patients [25]. Therefore, it is necessary to system-
atically test the lubrication behaviors of the various biological
molecules in the synovial fluid, especially, the most abundant
composition-albumin.
1.3. Albumin molecules
Human serum albumin which is the most abundant protein
in the synovial fluid is a multi-functional non-glycosylated,
negatively charged plasma protein, with ascribed ligand-
binding and transport properties, antioxidant functions, and
enzymatic activities [26]. It consists of 585 amino acids with a
molecular mass of 65 kDa [27]. Based on the X-ray analyses
performed by Carter and Ho [27], albumin is a heart-shaped
molecule with a high a-helical content but no b-sheet. The
tertiary structure of albumin is composed of three repeating
domains and each of these is comprised of two subdomains
H.-W. Fang et al. / Applied Surfwith common structural elements [28,29]. The role of albuminmolecules in the lubrication of cartilage and artificial joint
materials, especially, for the UHMWPE bearing surface, is
critical. The protein adsorption behavior on the bearing surface
has been indicated to affect the wear of UHMWPE [13].
Thermal induced unfolding of albumin and its thermodynamic
features were reported previously [30]. The role of thermal
unfolding albumin-mediated boundary lubrication was inves-
tigated for the artificial joint articulation system [31]. Elsaid
et al. [32] suggested that the decreased synovial fluid
lubrication might be related to the cartilage damage. There-
fore, it is hypothesized that the frictional energy dissipated
during the arthroplasty articulation may lead to the tempera-
ture rise and energy transfer to the protein molecules.
Molecular dynamics simulations were widely used to provide
insights into protein folding/unfolding process in atomic level
[33,34]. By applying both experimental and molecular
dynamics simulation approaches, it is expected the critical
properties of albumin can be obtained to evaluate its
lubrication performance.
1.4. Objective and approaches
The objective of this study is to evaluate the friction behavior
of x-UHMWPE influenced by the thermal process induced
structural change of interfacial albumin molecules. The
experimental and simulative approaches were designed to
understand the conformational change of albumin induced by
heat. A linear reciprocating friction test was then carried out to
measure the friction coefficients. By building up such a testing
platform, it is expected to establish the relationship between
frictional heat induced structural change and the lubricating
ability under articulation of x-UHMWPE andmetal for albumin
molecules.
2. Materials and methods
An accelerated oxidation experiment was used to prepare x-
UHMWPE with different oxidized surfaces. Analysis of the
albumin protein was performed using circular dichroism (CD)
spectroscopy to detect the conformational changes during a
thermal process. In addition, a molecular simulation procedure
was performed to understand the structural change of albumin
at various temperatures. Linear reciprocating frictional tests
were then carried out to obtain the friction coefficients.
2.1. UHMWPE materials
Highly-crosslinked GUR1050 UHMWPE (x-UHMWPE)
materials were obtained from United Orthopaedic Corporation,
Taiwan. UHMWPE cylinder pins were machined to 6.35 mm in
diameter and 25.4 mm in length with diamond turning on both
end surfaces without polishing. The mean roughness (Ra) of
UHMWPE pins’ end surface is 0.82 mm. 316 stainless steel
plates were prepared as the articulating materials and the
surfaces were polished (Ra = 0.11 mm). The surface roughness
of the stainless steel plates was slightly higher than that
Science 253 (2007) 6896–6904 6897expected for artificial joints (Ra  0.01 mm).
considered significant. Statistical analyses were performed
using SAS software on a personal computer.
3. Results and discussion
3.1. Thermal unfolding of albumin
The CD spectra of 12.6 mg/ml albumin solution were
H.-W. Fang et al. / Applied Surface Science 253 (2007) 6896–6904 6899between 300 and 600 mmwere applied in the friction tests. Fresh
and thermal processed albumin solution and saline solution were
used as lubricants. Normal forces and frictional forces were
recorded and analyzed by the Labview software. Fig. 2 shows an
example plot of the normal load, frictional force, and start-up
friction coefficient for the linear reciprocating sliding process.
Fig. 2. An example plot of the normal load and frictional force curve for the linear
reciprocating sliding process. Start-up friction forces for the last six cycles were
chosen to calculate the average friction coefficients for comparisons.The positive and negative frictional force and friction coefficient
indicate the opposite moving direction during the linear
reciprocating process. It is seen that the normal force decays
rapidly at initial linear reciprocating motions due the stress
relaxation of polymer.Averagevalue of normal loads and friction
force were calculated by retrieving the measurements of the last
six sliding process when a steady normal load was achieved.
Frictionmeasurement testswere repeated three times.The steady
normal loads under various compressive displacements during
the sliding are listed in Table 1.
2.5. Statistical analysis
Differences in friction coefficient between the experiments
were assessed by one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) to
make allowance of comparisons. A value of p < 0.05 was
Table 1
The steady normal loads (N) for the x-UHMWPE and oxidized x-UHMWPE sliding
Compressive displacement (mm) x-UHMWPE on steel
Albumin (fresh) Albumin (thermal)
300 25.4 16.8
400 57.5 26.6
500 89.9 45.5
600 124.8 45.0obtained as shown in Fig. 3. It is shown that the peak of a-
helix secondary structure at l1 = 208 nm and l2 = 222 nm was
decreased after the thermal process. The results indicated that
albumin may lose its secondary structure and lead to the
unfolding of this protein. The results suggest that the frictional
energy generated from the articulation of artificial jointmaterials
may be dissipated in the joint space. The energy may contribute
to the temperature rise of the system, chemical reactions of the
synovial fluid, or the wear of the arthroplasty or cartilage.
Molecular dynamics simulations were also performed to
understand the thermal effect on the structural change of
albumin molecules. The secondary structure analysis was
carried out using the Kabsch and Sander algorithm [38]
incorporated in their DSSP program. Fig. 4 shows the snapshots
of average structure of albumin at different temperatures. The
red areas shown in Fig. 4 represent the a-helices regimes. It is
seen that the a-helix content decreases with increasing
temperatures. HSA is composed of 38 a-helices without b-
sheet. To determine the structural stability of each a-helix in
HSA at different temperatures, the averaged helicity was
calculated during the 1 ns MD simulations and the results are
given in Fig. 5(a). It is obvious that the averaged helicity of
HSA decreased linearly as temperature increased from 300 to
600 K, indicating that higher temperature destroys the native
structure of HSA, leading to the loss of a-helical content. This
result is consistent with the findings of previous experiments, in
which an elevated temperature caused the loss of a-helix by
measuring the ellipticity at 208 and 222 nm using circular
dichroism [31]. Furthermore, Wang et al., [39] have
investigated thermal stability of HSA in aqueous solution by
applying Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) and
indicated that the maximum peaks at 1652 and 1547 cm1 (a-
helix) shifted to 1647 and 1542 cm1 (random coil),
respectively, with the increase of temperature.
3.2. Hydrophobicity of albumin and UHMWPE
Fig. 5(b) shows that the averaged hydrophobic accessible
surface area (ASA) increases linearly with increasing simulation
on 316 stainless steels under various compressive displacement and lubricants
Oxidized x-UHMWPE on steel
Saline Albumin (fresh) Albumin (thermal) Saline
12.5 17.7 12.5 16.3
18.9 33.8 27.8 25.6
30.5 64.5 47.9 44.658.4 100.0 82.0 76.8
aceFig. 6. (a) Start-up friction coefficients for x-UHMWPE-316 stainless steel
sliding experiments; (b) start-up friction coefficients for oxidized x-UHMWPE
-316 stainless steel sliding experiments.
H.-W. Fang et al. / Applied Surf300 to 600 mm ( p < 0.05). Thermal processed albumin solution
contains a measurable amount of unfolded albumin as shown in
Fig. 3. Compared to native albumin, unfolded albumin has a less
regular structure and exposes more hydrophobic side chains of
amino acids, resulting in more hydrophobic interaction between
the unfolded albumin and material surfaces. The unfolded
albumin forms a compact layer of protein that tends to adhere to
the hydrophobic x-UHMWPE surface and results in the increase
of friction coefficient. However, the friction coefficients for
thermal processed albumin solutions increase with increasing
compressive displacements (loads). With increasing normal
load, the unfolded albumin may be pressed onto surfaces to a
greater amount, leading to increasing the friction coefficients.
When the hydrophobic x-UHMWPE is replaced by a less
hydrophobic oxidized x-UHMWPE, the friction coefficients are
shown in Fig. 6(b). Comparing the friction coefficients under
fresh and thermal processed albumin solutions for oxidized x-
UHMWPE, no difference is observed under a compressive
displacement of 300 mm ( p = 0.065 > 0.05). Under the com-
pressive displacements of 400, 500, and 600 mm, thermal
processed albumin solution results in higher friction coefficients
than fresh albumin solution ( p < 0.001). When the compressive
displacement is the same, fresh albumin solution, comparedwith
thermal processed albumin solution, leads to smaller friction
coefficients as shown in Fig. 7. The unfolded albumin has a less
regular structure than native albumin and may rearrange its
irregular conformation on the surface more readily, causing a
larger amount of protein adsorption on the surface. The
compacting structure of the unfolded albumin then leads tothe increase of friction coefficient. With increasing normal load,
the unfolded albumin is also pressed to a greater amount, leading
to a trend of increase of the friction coefficients as shown in
Fig. 7.
3.4. A hypothesis model
As discussed above, the thermal unfolding albumin tends to
form a compact layer. With increasing normal load using
thermal processed albumin, the friction coefficients increase for
both x-UHMWPE and oxidized x-UHMWPE. The articulation
of x-UHMWPE and steel with thermal processed albumin leads
to the highest friction coefficient. The x-UHMWPE gave
considerably higher friction coefficients than the oxidized x-
UHMWPE using the thermal albumin. Comparing to oxidized
x-UHMWPE, x-UHMWPE has a more hydrophobic surface
property due to a more symmetric molecular structure. The
hydrophobic unfolding albumin having stronger bonding
strength with the more hydrophobic x-UHMWPE [31] may
explain the result. When the fresh albumin solution was
applied, the smaller friction coefficients are always obtained.
Under the small normal load of 300 mm, oxidized x-UHMWPE
Fig. 7. Curves of the friction coefficients for x-UHMWPE with different
oxidation level under the lubrication of fresh and thermal processed albumin
solutions.
Science 253 (2007) 6896–6904 6901results in a larger friction coefficient under fresh albumin
solution ( p < 0.001). While under the compressive displace-
ments of 400, 500, and 600 mm, the difference of friction
coefficients under fresh albumin solutions between x-
UHMWPE and oxidized x-UHMWPE is not obvious
( p > 0.05).
Based on the experimental results of friction tests and the
computation results of albumin helicity and averaged hydro-
phobic ASA, we propose a hypothesis that accounts for the
effects of albumin conformational change on the start-up
friction coefficient as shown in Fig. 8. The unfolding of albumin
induced by the thermal process leads to the increase of the
hydrophobic contact area of albumin. The unfolded albumin
tends to form a compact layer of protein under contact pressure
and leads to the increase of friction coefficient in comparison to
the native albumin structure. x-UHMWPE has a relative
hydrophobic surface. The unfolded albumin forms a compact
layer of protein that tends to adhere on the hydrophobic x-
acechange of albumin with x-UHMWPE and oxidized x-
UHMWPE surfaces were investigated through a series of
friction tests in order to point out their impacts on boundary
lubrication. The effects of the relationship between the
hydrophobicities of albumin and articulating materials on their
frictional characteristics were also indicated. The results
indicate that a decrease of a-helix content and an unfolding
of the secondary structure of albumin were observed with
increasing temperatures which may come from the frictional
heat of joint articulation process. The conformational change of
albumin differentiates the frictional characteristics for
UHMWPE with different oxidation levels. A model describing
that the properties of the lubricating molecules and articulating
surfaces may affect the adsorption of the boundary lubrication
thin film which is critical to the tribological behavior was
proposed.
Acknowledgement
The authors are pleased to acknowledge the financial support
from National Science Council (NSC 95-2221-E-027-045-),
Taiwan.
References
[1] T.M. Wright, S.B. Goodman, Implant wear in total joint replacement:
clinical and biologic issues, material and design considerations, Am.
Acad. Orthop. Surg. (2001) 3–11.
[2] D. Dowson, Medical engineering- the multi-disciplinary challenge, Proc.
Inst.. Mech. Eng. 205 (1991) 1–10.
[3] E.J. Cheal, M. Spector, W. Hayes, Role of loads and prosthesis material
properties on the mechanics of the proximal femur after total hip arthro-
plasty, J. Ortho. Res. 10 (1992) 405–422.
[4] S.L. Evans, P.J. Gregson, Numerical optimization of the design of a coated
cementless hip prosthesis, J. Mater. Sci: Mater. Med. 5 (1994)
507–510.
[5] A. Toni, B. McNamara, M. Viceconti, A. Sudanese, F. Baruffaldi, A.
Giunti, Bone remodelling after total hip arthroplasty, J. Mater. Sci.: Mater.
Med. 7 (1996) 149–152.
[6] H. Weinans, R. Huiskes, Effects of fit and bonding characteristics of
femoral stems on adaptive bone remodeling, J. Biomech. Eng. 116 (1994)
393–400.
[7] S.M. Kurtz, O.K. Muratoglu, M. Evans, A.A. Edidin, Advances in the
processing, sterilization, and crosslinking of ultra-high molecular weight
polyethylene for total joint arthroplasty, Biomaterials 20 (1999) 1659–
1688.
[8] H. McKellop, F.W. Shen, B. Lu, P. Campbell, R. Salovey, Development of
an extremely wear-resistant ultra high molecular weight polyethylene for
total hip replacements, J. Orthop. Res. 17 (1999) 157–167.
[9] O.K. Muratoglu, C.R. Bragdon, D.O. O’Connor, M. Jasty, W.H. Harris, A
novel method of cross-linking ultra-high-molecular-weight polyethylene
to improve wear, reduce oxidation, and retain mechanical properties, J.
Arthroplasty 16 (2001) 149–160.
[10] A. Unsworth, Tribology of human and artificial joints, Proc. Inst. Mech.
Engr. Part H 205 (1991) 163–172.
[11] B.A. Hills, Boundary lubrication in vivo, Proc. Inst. Mech. Engr. Part H
214 (2000) 83–94.
[12] D. Mazzucco, M. Spector, The role of joint fluid in the tribology of total
joint arthroplasty, Clin. Ortho. Rel. Res. 429 (2004) 17–32.
[13] T.A. Blanchet, S.L. Peterson, K.D. Rosenberg, Serum lubricant absorption
by UHMWPE orthopaedic bearing implants, J. Tribol. 124 (2002)
H.-W. Fang et al. / Applied Surf1–4.[14] V. Saikko, T. Ahlroos, Phospholipids as boundary lubricants in wear tests
of prosthetic joint materials, Wear 207 (1997) 86–91.
[15] T. Kitano, G.A. Ateshian, V.C. Mowa, Y. Kadoyab, Y. Yamano, Consti-
tuents and pH changes in protein rich hyaluronan solution affect the
biotribological properties of artificial articular joints, J. Biomech. 34
(2001) 1031–1037.
[16] S. Mori, M. Naito, S. Moriyama, Highly viscous sodium hyaluronate and
joint lubrication, Int. Orthop. 26 (2002) 116–121.
[17] Y.-S. Liao, P.D. Benya, H.A. McKellop, Effect of protein lubrication on
the wear properties of materials for prosthetic joints, J. Biomed. Mater.
Res. 48 (1999) 465–473.
[18] J.Q. Yao, T.A. Blanchet, D.J. Murphy, M.P. Laurent, Effect of fluid
absorption on the wear resistance of UHMWPE orthopedic bearing
surfaces, Wear 255 (2003) 1113–1120.
[19] A. Wang, A. Essner, G. Schmidig, The effects of lubricant composition on
in vitro wear testing of polymeric acetabular components, J. Biomed.
Mater. Res. 67 (2003) 45–52.
[20] Y. Sawae, T. Murakami, J. Chen, Effect of synovial constituents on friction
and wear UHMWPE sliding against prothetic joint materials, Wear 216
(1998) 213–219.
[21] H.-W. Fang, S.M. Hsu, J.V. Sengers, Generation of narrowly distributed
ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene particles by surface texturing
techniques, J. Biomed. Mater. Res. B: Appl. Biomater. 67B (2003) 741–
749.
[22] H.-W. Fang, Y.-C. Su, C.-H. Huang, C.-B. Yang, Influence of biological
lubricant on the morphology of UHMWPE wear particles generated
with microfabricated surface textures, Mater. Chem. Phys. 95 (2006)
280–288.
[23] H.-W. Fang, S.M. Hsu, J.V. Sengers, Surface texture design to generate
specific sizes and shapes of UHMWPE wear particles, Materialwis-
senschaft und Werkstofftech 34 (2003) 976–988.
[24] H.-W. Fang, Y.-C. Ho, C.-B. Yang, H.-L. Liu, F.-Y. Ho, Y.-C. Lu, H.-M.
Ma, C.-H. Huang, Preparation of UHMWPE particles and establishment
of inverted macrophage cell model to investigate wear particles induced
bioactivities, J. Biochem. Biophys. Meth. 68 (2006) 175–187.
[25] R.A. Gatter, H.R. Schumacher, A Practical Handbook Of Joint Fluid
Analysis, Lea & Febiger Press, Philadelphia, 1991.
[26] T. Peters, All about albumin: biochemistry, in: Genetics and Medical
Applications, Academic Press, San Diego, CA, 1996.
[27] D.C. Carter, J.X. Ho, Structure of serum albumin, Adv. Protein Chem. 45
(1994) 153–203.
[28] S. Sugio, S. Mochizuki, M. Noda, A. Kashima, Crystal structure of human
serum albumin at 2.5 A˚, Protein Eng. 12 (1999) 439–446.
[29] S. Curry, H. Mandeikow, P. Brick, N. Franks, Crystal structure of human
serum albumin complexed fatty Acids reveals an asymmetric distribution
of binding sites, Nat. Struct. Biol. 5 (1998) 827–835.
[30] B. Farruggia, G.A. Pico, Thermodynamic feaures of chemical and thermal
denaturations of human serum albumin, Int. J. Bio. Macromol. 20 (1999)
317–323.
[31] M.P. Heuberger, M.R. Widmer, E. Zobeley, R. Glockshuber, N.D. Spen-
cer, Protein-mediated boundary lubrication in arthroplasty, Biomaterials
26 (2005) 1165–1173.
[32] K.A. Elsaid, G.D. Jay, M.L. Warman, D.K. Rhee, C.O. Chichester,
Association of articular cartilage degradation and loss of boundary-
lubricating ability of synovial fluid following injury and inflammatory
arthritis, Arthritis Rheum. 52 (2005) 1746–1755.
[33] H. Mihara, Y. Takahashi, A. Ueno, Design of peptides undergoing self-
catalytic alpha to beta transition and amyloidogenesis, Biopolymers 47
(1998) 83–92.
[34] D. Peretz, R.Williamson, Y.Matsunaga, H. Serban, C. Pinilla, R. Bastidas,
R. Rozenshteyn, T. James, R. Houghten, F. Cohen, S. Prusiner, D. Burton,
A conformational transition at the N terminus of the prion protein features
in formation of the scrapie isoform, J. Mol. Biol. 273 (1997) 614–622.
[35] ASTM F 2003-02, Standard Guide for Accelerated Aging of Ultra High
Molecular Weight Polyethylene, West Conshohocken, PA, American
Society for Testing and Materials, 2000.
[36] P. Dauber-Osguthorpe, V.A. Roberts, D.J. Osguthorpe, J. Wolff, M.
Science 253 (2007) 6896–6904 6903Genest, A.T. Hagler, Structure and energetics of ligand binding to
This article was originally published in a journal published by
Elsevier, and the attached copy is provided by Elsevier for the
author’s benefit and for the benefit of the author’s institution, for
non-commercial research and educational use including without
limitation use in instruction at your institution, sending it to specific
colleagues that you know, and providing a copy to your institution’s
administrator.
All other uses, reproduction and distribution, including without
limitation commercial reprints, selling or licensing copies or access,
or posting on open internet sites, your personal or institution’s
website or repository, are prohibited. For exceptions, permission
may be sought for such use through Elsevier’s permissions site at:
http://www.elsevier.com/locate/permissionusematerial
Au
th
or
's 
  p
er
so
na
l   
co
py
cess. Particularly, the eﬀect of the unfolded albumin on the
friction coeﬃcients of hydrophobic UHMWPE and hydro-
philic cartilage is investigated.
2. Experimental
2.1. Materials
Highly-crosslinked GUR1050 UHMWPE materials
were obtained from United Orthopaedic Corporation, Tai-
wan. UHMWPE cylinder pins were machined to 6.35 and
25.4 mm in diameter and length, respectively, with dia-
mond turning on both end surfaces without polishing.
The mean roughness (Ra) of UHMWPE pins’ end surface
is 0.82 lm. 316 stainless steel plates were prepared as the
articulating materials and the surfaces were polished
(Ra = 0.11 lm). Full-thickness articular cartilage was har-
vested aseptically from adult porcine knee joints within
12 h after slaughter. We used mosaicplasty chisel to harvest
osteochondral tissue. The diameter of the cylindrical tissue
sample was 4.5 mm. The cylindrical tissue was cut to min-
imize the height of osteochondral bone and ﬁxed on the top
surface of a UHMWPE pin by epoxy glue. The lubricant of
12.6 mg/ml human serum albumin solution was prepared
by desolving albumin powders (Sigma, AG-1653) into
PBS solution.
2.2. Tribological process
A linear reciprocating tribological test was designed to
carry out the articulating of UHMWPE and 316 stainless
steels with 12.6 mg/ml albumin solution as lubricant. Lin-
ear reciprocating wear tests were run under a nominal con-
tact pressure of 3 MPa, a stroke length of 19 mm, a
frequency of 1.5 Hz, and an average sliding speed of
57.2 mm/s for 24 h. After the test, ‘post-friction’ albumin
solution was collected for the friction tests and biochemical
analysis immediately.
2.3. Protein analysis
Fresh and post-friction albumin solutions were sampled
for protein analysis. In addition, in order to discuss the
thermal eﬀect on the conformational change of protein
structure, samples of albumin solution heated at 50, 70,
and 95 C for 30 min were also analyzed. The conforma-
tion of albumin in solution was monitored using a circular
dichroism spectroscopy (CD, Spectropolarimeter J-810,
Jasco). CD is particularly well suited to determine the a-
helical content of proteins in solution. The wavelength at
k1 = 208 nm and k2 = 222 nm are sensitive indicators of
the a-helical content. As the protein denatures, the elliptic-
ity of these two peaks decreases toward to zero. SDS–
PAGE of albumin solution before and after the tribological
process was performed in polyacrylamide slab gel (4%
stacking/10% resolving gel). The stacking/resolving gel
buﬀer compositions and the running electrode buﬀer con-
taining 0.1% SDS were essentially according to Laemmli’s
buﬀer system. The albumin solution was diluted to
0.063 mg/ml with deionized water and 4X NuPAGE
LDS Sample Buﬀer (Invitrogen). 10k of 0.063 mg/ml albu-
min (in LDS sample buﬀer) solution were applied to the gel
wells of a vertical mini-gel apparatus and run at a constant
current of 25 mA for 75 min. The gel was then stained with
Coomassie brilliant blue G-250 (J.T.BAKER). The Bench-
MarkTM Protein Ladder (Invitrogen) was used as standard
marker proteins.
2.4. Friction measurement
The cartilage tissue sample and the polished 316 stain-
less steel were mounted on the tester. Linear reciprocating
wear tests of cartilages articulating 316 stainless steels were
carried out with 20 mm/s speed, 5 mm stroke length for 50
cycles. Various compressive displacements between 300–
600 lm were applied in the friction tests. Fresh and post-
friction biological albumin solution and saline solution
were used as lubricants. Normal and frictional forces were
recorded and analyzed by the Labview software. It was
observed that the normal force decays rapidly at initial lin-
ear reciprocating motions due to the stress relaxation of the
viscoelastic cartilage. Average value of normal loads and
friction force were calculated by retrieving the measure-
ments of the last 6 sliding process when a steady normal
load was achieved. Friction measurement tests were
repeated 3 times. The steady normal loads under various
compressive displacements during the sliding are listed in
Table 1.
Table 1
The steady normal loads for the UHMWPE and cartilage sliding on 316 stainless steels under various compressive displacement and lubricants
Compressive displacement UHMWPE – steel Cartilage – steel
Fresh albumin Post-friction albumin PBS Fresh albumin Post-friction albumin PBS
300 lm 28.2 29.7 24.6 9.5 10.9 7.2
400 lm 53.3 52.8 45.3 13.3 14.6 8.0
500 lm 85.5 86.8 76.9 17.8 20.7 10.1
600 lm 124.3 119.4 113.0 24.7 29.4 13.5
Unit: Newton.
C.-B. Yang et al. / Chemical Physics Letters 431 (2006) 380–384 381
Au
th
or
's 
  p
er
so
na
l   
co
py
frictional energy generated from the articulation of artiﬁ-
cial joint materials is dissipated in the joint space. The
energy may contribute to the temperature rise of the sys-
tem, chemical reactions of the synovial ﬂuid, or the wear
of the arthroplasty or cartilage.
3.2. Friction coeﬃcient
In Fig. 3, start-up friction coeﬃcient experiments for
UHMWPE-316 stainless steel sliding show that PBS solu-
tion results in a smaller friction coeﬃcient compared to
albumin solutions. The relatively higher friction coeﬃcients
of albumin solution may be related to the adsorption of
protein onto the sliding surface or its counter-face. That
is, this protein probably causes the higher friction coeﬃ-
cient during UHMWPE-316 stainless steel sliding. The
amount of albumin adsorption probably aﬀects frictional
behavior as well. With further compressive displacement,
the albumin amount decreases accordingly between sur-
faces. This may account for the fact that friction coeﬃcient
for fresh albumin solution decreases with increasing com-
pressive displacement. However, friction coeﬃcient for
post-friction albumin solution increases with increasing
compressive displacement. Post-friction albumin solution
contains a measurable amount of unfolded albumin as
shown in Fig. 1a. Compared to native albumin, unfolded
albumin exhibits a less native structure and exposes more
hydrophobic side chains of amino acids inside albumin,
resulting in more hydrophobic interactions between the
unfolded albumin and the surface. With increasing normal
load, the unfolded albumin may be pressed onto the sur-
faces to a greater amount, leading to increasing the friction
coeﬃcients.
When the hydrophobic UHMWPE is replaced by a
more hydrophilic cartilage, fresh albumin solution leads
to a smaller friction coeﬃcient than PBS solutions as
shown in Fig. 4. This indicates that native albumin acts
as a lubrication enhancer and may involve the less hydro-
phobic interaction of albumin with the cartilage surface.
Most native water-soluble proteins such as albumin tend
to expose many of their hydrophilic side chains on their
outermost surface. Therefore, native albumin may exhibit
hydrophilic interaction between cartilage and protein sur-
face. Although the enhanced lubrication mechanism of
albumin on the cartilage surface is not well-understood,
we suggest that the rolling eﬀect of heart-shaped native
albumin on the sliding surface may contribute to a better
lubrication. With further compressive displacement, the
albumin amount decreases accordingly between surfaces,
causing the decrease of friction coeﬃcients. When the com-
pressive displacement is the same, fresh albumin solution,
compared with post-friction albumin solution, leads to
smaller friction coeﬃcients. The unfolded albumin exhibits
a less native structure than native albumin and may rear-
range its irregular conformation on the surface more read-
ily, causing a larger amount of protein adsorption on the
surface. The friction coeﬃcient also changes with the com-
pressive displacement. Because the cartilage surface is not
as hydrophobic as UHMWPE, the denatured albumin
can leave the articulating surface easily, just similar to
the native albumin. This may account for the fact that
increase of compressive displacement leads to the decrease
of the friction coeﬃcient, no matter the lubricant is used or
not.
3.3. A hypothesis model
We propose a hypothesis that accounts for the eﬀects of
albumin conformational change on the start-up friction
coeﬃcient as shown in Fig. 5. The unfolding of albumin
induced by tribological process leads to the increase in
the hydrophobic contact area of albumin. The unfolded
albumin tends to form a compact layer of protein under
contact pressure and leads to the increase of friction coef-
ﬁcient in comparison to the native albumin structure. As
shown in Fig. 5a, native albumin acts as a lubrication
inhibitor when it is added to the PBS solution. In other
words, albumin, when staying between two surfaces, causes
the higher friction coeﬃcient. Increase of normal load
causes the albumin molecules to be expelled away from
Fig. 3. Start-up friction coeﬃcients for UHMWPE-316 stainless steel
sliding experiments.
Fig. 4. Start-up friction coeﬃcients for cartilage-316 stainless steel sliding
experiments.
C.-B. Yang et al. / Chemical Physics Letters 431 (2006) 380–384 383
rm
ri
ng
, C
Eas
Na
i Un
acc
5 D
compartment is a common cause of failure after unicompart-
mental arthroplasty [2–7]. Some authors have suggested that
[10,11]. The influence of bipolar hemiarthroplasty on acetabular
cartilage had been discussed in the researches comparing bipolar
hemiarthroplasty to total hip arthroplasty in patient with femoral
head osteonecrosis [11]. Evaluations of the acetabular cartilages
Materials Letters 61 (2007)1. Introduction
Partial joint arthroplasty surgeries have been widely applied
to patients with unicondylar knee joint osteoarthritis or those
who suffered from the femoral neck fracture. Unicompartmental
knee arthroplasty (UKA) and bipolar hemiarthroplasty are two
representative treatments. Coexistence of artificial joint materi-
als and articular cartilages in the joint area constitutes the unique
feature and it may play a critical role of the subsequent
progression of the cartilage degeneration.
The most common failure mechanism of UKA is component
loosening, polyethylene wear and progression of disease in the
un-resurfaced compartment [1]. Degeneration in the opposite
overcorrection of joint deformity results in the transfer of
increased forces to the uninvolved compartment and accelerating
degeneration [4,8]. However, the complete explanation of the
progression of patello-femoral arthritis is still not provided. In
addition, Elsaid et al. [9] further suggested that the decreased
synovial fluid lubrication might be related to cartilage damage.
Unipolar hemiarthroplasty can be a successful treatment for
displaced femoral neck fractures in selected low demand elderly
patients. However, bipolar hemiarthroplasty also is associated
with groin pain, acetabular cartilage deterioration related to time
and activity as well as polyethylene wear at the bearing surface of
the femoral head and the mobile acetabular implant, which can
lead to osteolysis, implant loosening, and early revision surgeryThe results indicated that the lubricating ability for cartilages deteriorates after the biological lubricants were articulated between polyethylene and
stainless steel materials. In addition, the secondary structure change of the albumin molecule has been characterized after the molecules were
articulated by the artificial joint materials. We have provided evidence that the conformational change of protein lubricants leads to the friction
increase of articular cartilage.
© 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Keywords: Partial joint arthroplasty; Cartilage; Friction; Albumin; Tribochemistry; UHMWPEprotein-based lubricant on the friction change of articular cartilages. SerAbstract
In-vitro testing procedures have been successfully developed to investigate the effects of tribological process induced transformation of
um and albumin solutions were the biological lubricants used in this study.Tribological process induced confo
may change the f
Chih-Hung Chang a, Hsu-Wei Fang b,c,⁎, Huei-Ti
Man-Ching Hsieh c
a Division of Orthopaedics, Department of Surgery, Far
b Department of Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology,
c Institute of Biotechnology, National Taipe
Received 5 October 2006;
Available online⁎ Corresponding author. Department of Chemical Engineering, Mail stop
2521, National Taipei University of Technology, 1, Sec. 3, Chung-Hsiao E.
Road, Taipei 106, Taiwan. Tel.: +886 930380200; fax: +886 227418575.
E-mail address: hwfang@ntut.edu.tw (H.-W. Fang).
0167-577X/$ - see front matter © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/j.matlet.2006.11.077ational transformation of protein
ction of cartilage
Huang c, Hsuan-Liang Liu b,c, Wei-Ming Lee b,
hiang-San Chen a
tern Memorial Hospital, Pan-Chiao 220, Taipei, Taiwan
tional Taipei University of Technology, Taipei 106, Taiwan
iversity of Technology, Taipei 106, Taiwan
epted 13 November 2006
ecember 2006
3381–3384
www.elsevier.com/locate/matletduring the hemiarthroplasty revision surgeries have indicated that
degenerative changes of the cartilages were present [12,13]. They
concluded that even healthy cartilage could not tolerate the
analysis of variance (ANOVA) tomake allowance of comparisons.
Avalue of pb0.05 was considered significant. Statistical analyses
were performed using SAS software on a personal computer.
3. Results
3.1. Friction measurements
The friction coefficients under various lubricants and compressive
displacements have been measured. Fig. 2 shows the friction coefficients
under saline, serum, and albumin solutions, respectively. No significant
difference of friction coefficient was observed between the experiments
3383ls Letters 61 (2007) 3381–3384materials. Linear reciprocating wear tests were run under a
nominal contact pressure of 3 MPa, a stroke length of 19 mm, a
frequency of 1.5 Hz, and an average sliding speed of 57.2 mm/s
for 24 h. After the wear tests, lubricants were collected for the
cartilage friction tests and biochemical analysis.
2.2. Cartilage tissue sample
Full-thickness articular cartilage was harvested aseptically
from adult porcine knee joints within 12 h after slaughter. We
used mosaicplasty chisel to harvest osteochondral tissue. The
diameter of the cylindrical tissue sample was 4.5 mm. The
chisel was hammered into the femoral condyle of the porcine
knee joint with the depth of 5 mm (here is 5 mm). Then we
gently shook the chisel to break the cancellous bone. The chisel
was removed and the osteochondral tissue was pushed out from
the chisel. The pusher was applied from the part of cancellous
bone, to avoid injury to the cartilage surface. The cylindrical
tissue was cut to a minimize the height of osteochondral bone
and fixed on the top surface of a UHMWPE pin of 6.35 mm in
diameter and 25.4 mm in length by epoxy glue.
2.3. Measurement of cartilage friction
The cartilage tissue sample and the polished 316 stainless steel
were mounted on the tester. Linear reciprocating frictional tests of
cartilages articulating 316 stainless steels were carried out with
20 mm/s speed, 5 mm stroke length for 20 cycles. Various
compressive displacements between 300 and 800 μmwere applied
in the friction tests. Fresh and post-friction biological lubricants of
bovine serum, human serum albumin solution, and saline solution
were used as lubricants. Normal forces and frictional forces were
recorded and analyzed by the Labview software.
2.4. Protein analysis
The conformation of albumin in solutionwasmonitored using a
circular dichroism spectroscopy (CD, Spectropolarimeter J-810,
Jasco). CD is particularly well suited to determine the α-helix
content of proteins in solution. The wavelength at λ1=208 nm and
λ2=222 nm are sensitive indicators of α-helix content. As the
protein denatures, the ellipticity of theα-helical domains decreases
toward zero. CD was employed to analyze the temperature-
dependent conformational change of human serum albumin.
Furthermore we compare the conformation of albumin before and
after wear test. By doing so, we are able to understand the wear
properties dependence on the structure of the protein lubricants.
The sample solution was about 400–500 μl to fill into the cuvette.
In this study, CD spectroscopy was not applied to bovine serum
solution due to its complex compositions. In addition, SDS-PAGE
of albumin before and after wear was performed to monitor the
possible change of molecular weight of protein.
2.5. Statistical analysis
C.-H. Chang et al. / MateriaDifferences in friction coefficient between the experiments
using fresh and post-friction lubricants were assessed by one-wayFig. 2. Friction coefficients for the linear sliding between cartilage and 316
stainless steel: (a) friction coefficients under fresh and post-friction saline; (b)
friction coefficients under fresh and post-friction serum solutions; (c) friction
coefficients under fresh and post-friction 12.6 mg/mL albumin solutions.
參訪新加坡國立大學與南洋理工大學 心得報告 
國立台北科技大學 化學工程與生物科技系 方旭偉副教授 
 
本人於96年7月10-14日間參訪新加坡相關學術機構，包括新加坡國立大學
(Singapore National University, NUS)、南洋理工大學(Nanyang Technical University, 
NTU)與數位儲存裝置國家實驗室(Digital Storage Institute, a-star DSI)等單位，重
點在參觀與摩擦學以及生醫工程相關之實驗室，並於新加坡國立大學發表一場演
講，透過此次參訪，達到推廣本實驗團對成果以及學習他人成果之目的。 
7月10日約下午到達新加坡，進駐飯店後，由南洋理工科技大學之助理教授
陳柏翰(Prof. Chen Po-Han)接待共進晚餐，言談之間了解新加坡整體之研究環境
以及制度，也進ㄧ步針對幾天來的參訪行程做再次的確認。 
7月11日安排於新加坡國立大學機械工程系發表演講(演講公告如附件)，講
題為「生物摩擦潤滑學之研究(Biotribology- Background and Researches」，吸引
將近40位該系之師生前往聆聽，演講中介紹本人現正執行國科會計畫研究之狀況
與成果，包括人工關節之摩擦機制、關節液之生物潤滑作用等，席間與大家進行
充分之討論。下午則安排參觀由Prof. Sinha Sujeet Kumar之摩擦實驗室，並與其
之博士後研究員 Dr. Nalam Satyanarayana針對相關摩潤學之研究計畫細節進行
討論，並充分交換雙方之研究資源運用情形，討論未來合作之機會與可行性。之
後並前往化工系參訪，由楊昆霖教授接待，參觀化工系各項設施，並與從事生醫
材料以及組織工程之多位教授進行會談。 
 
 
