 2 
 
摘要 
本成果報告為三年期計畫的第三年報告。第一年研究著重於無線微型感測網路攻擊偵測，
已經繳交報告，探討“無線感測網路中以統計模型為基礎的異常行為偵測  (Detecting 
Anomalous Behaviors in WSNs with Statistical Learning Model)”。第二年研究重點在於高信賴
度的安全傳輸機制，而此報告已在前一年繳交，我們將探討“適用於無線微型感測網路之具
容錯性與攻擊抵抗性之多重路徑資訊傳送機制(A Fault-Tolerant, Attack-Resistant Multipath 
Information Delivery Scheme for Wireless Sensor Networks)”。本年度研究重點在於如何防制
節點被攻擊者利用並散佈偽造的訊息,繼續探討”在叢聚式無限感測網路下以統計分析為基
礎之選舉式攻擊偵測系統(A Statistical Voting Scheme for Detecting Compromised Nodes in 
Clustered WSNs)” 
 
在無線感測網路的環境之下，節點遭受到攻擊者入侵並且加以控制的問題，往往對於整個
網路的正常運作造成很大的威脅。其中一項較有名的攻擊手法叫做偽造資料攻擊。攻擊者
會在無法預期的狀況之下假造資料回傳給主伺服器，造成感測資料可信度失效。目前傳統
的解決方案最有效的，只能在離攻擊者許多路由距離之外才能偵測出攻擊事件的發生。如
此只會在攻擊者已經對網路造成傷害之後才開始解決問題。本報告所提出的方法，能夠在
攻擊發生的同時侷限傷害範圍。使其能夠在距離攻擊來源一個路由距離內及時發現攻擊事
件，並且在網路遭受到傷害之前加以阻絕。經過實驗分析以及理論證明，我們發現此研究
成果確實可以在這些威脅之下提供無線感測網路一個高度安全的可靠環境。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
1. Introduction 
 
    Wireless sensor network (WSN) consists of a large number of small, inexpensive, 
battery-supplied communication devices densely deployed within a range of geographical space. 
It offers economical practicable solutions for many applications including monitoring factory 
instrumentation, pollution levels, freeway traffic, nature environment monitoring, surveillance, 
disaster management, target tracking, and the structural integrity of buildings. The functions of 
WSNs are mainly to be used for gathering useful information related to the surrounding 
environment. (e.g. temperature, humidity, seismic and acoustic data, etc.)  
    “Energy or power consumption” is commonly considered as the key challenge in the design 
of WSNs. Individual sensor is expected to be low-cost, small size, and power conserving. 
However, most applications involving WSNs will ask for the unattended use over a long time. 
But the battery-supplied sensors of WSNs are with rare or no possibility to meet that requirement. 
So how to prolong the lifetime of WSNs by means of conserve the energy or power of sensors is 
the critical problem to be solved. 
    In resent years, a considerable number of published research works about wireless sensor 
networks have dealt with the issues of “energy or power consumption” problems [2][3][5-8]. 
Most of these works are proposed to minimize the energy usage of sensors and, therefore, success 
to prolong the operational lifetime of the entire network. The main ways are (1) to reduce the sum 
of inter-node communication, or (2) prolong the sleep time of sensor nodes. The researchers of 
these works also commonly agree with that WSNs of cluster-based architecture have the effect of 
advantages of these two ways, (1), (2) to prolong the network lifetime. Accordingly, WSNs of 
cluster-based architecture are considered as the most energy-efficient and most long-lived class of 
sensor networks. 
    Because of the low-cost and low tamper-resistant features, sensor nodes are vulnerable to 
 6 
would be dropped during the process of forwarding. 
    A probabilistic voting-based filtering scheme (PVFS) [18] offers an efficient scheme to 
address these two types of attacks simultaneously by used of voting method under the clustered 
organization of WSNs. It used a designed probability to select intermediate cluster-heads as 
verification nodes. The verification would not drop a report immediately after finding a false vote; 
instead it records the result of current verification. When the number of false votes reaches the 
design threshold, the report would be dropped.  
But there are some problems in these previous researches. They address these problems at a 
location several hops from the attacker, which results in high resource consumption and the 
spread of damage across the network. 
   In this paper, we design a statistical voting scheme for detecting compromised nodes under 
the clustered-organized wireless sensor networks. In order to prevent the damages caused by 
compromised nodes expend into a large range of the network, we use the cluster-heads as the 
detectors to detect the compromised nodes locally inside the 1-hop cluster. Each of the 
non-clustered-heads is not only the voter in the scheme but also probable the compromised node. 
We use some statistical analysis techniques to filter the voters and compute the reasonable range 
of data value to judge whether the destination is compromised or not. The neighbors of each node 
are its voters. In order to promise the correctness of reasonable range, the assumption that there 
are less than half of neighbors compromised would be the requirement of our scheme. 
    The contributions of this report are as follow： 
1. All these research works are success to make the damages of these two attacks (fabricated 
report attack and false votes on real reports attack) inefficient. But they can not detect the 
compromised ones and make the inside attacker disappeared completely. Our scheme can 
not only make these attacks inefficient but also capture the compromised ones. 
2. We use cluster-based organization in our design. By processing detection locally, the 
damages from different clusters can not influence each other. It limits the damages caused 
by compromised ones into a cluster. 
3. We present a statistical voting scheme for detecting compromised nodes with statistical 
 8 
 To transmit the aggregated data directly or multi-hops to the sink. 
The meaning of data aggregation is that sensor nodes may generate significant redundant data; 
packets with similarity from multiple nodes can be aggregated (compressed) to reduce the 
number of transmissions. Data aggregation is the combination of data from different sources 
according to certain aggregation function. (e.g., duplicated suppression, minima, maxima, and 
average) 
    There are two advantages provide by clustered WSNs over non-clustered WSNs： 
 By localizing data transmissions within the constructed clusters, clustered WSNs are able to 
reduce the volume of inter-node communication. As a consequence, it decreases the overall 
number of transmissions to the sink. 
 By allowing the elected clustered-heads to coordinate between sensors inside clusters, 
clustered WSNs are able to extend the sleep times of sensors. Furthermore, by applying 
some form of TDMA-based scheduling, it can optimize the activities of other cluster 
members. 
    The questions are that: 1. Are all clustering schemes equally effective in extending the 
lifetime of WSN? 2. How should the optimal WSN clustering looks like? 3. What are the optimal 
positions and sizes of clusters? According to the works [1], not all clustering scheme are equally 
effective. Only when positioning the clusters within the isoclusters of the monitored 
phenomenon can guarantee reduced energy consumption and a longer lifetime of the network. 
Isocluster is an area of the points which have the same value or lie within a certain limited value 
range. 
    The main goal of clustered organized WSNs is to prolong the life time of the networks. 
There are lots of algorithms to achieve this concept. One of these algorithms is “Low-energy 
adaptive clustering hierarchy” (LEACH) [8]. It is a well-known work of cluster algorithm for low 
power wireless communication. However, it assume that each sensor nodes have unlimited power 
and can transmit data directly to the cluster-heads and sink by used of single-hop routing protocol. 
Obviously, the assumption is not practical for real life; the other algorithm “Hybrid 
Energy-Efficient Distributed Clustering” (HEED) [7] is a concept of distributed clustering 
 10 
independent keys they derived are using the pseudorandom function F. The processes of deriving 
independent keys are as follow：Encryption keys KAB = FY(n) (n is a random number known by A 
and B) and KBA = FY(n+2) for each direction of communication, and MAC keys K’AB = FY(n+2) 
and K’BA = FY(n+4) for each direction of communication. And the format of the encryption data 
is：E = {D}(K,C), where D is the data, K is the encryption key and C is the value of counter. So the 
complete message that A sends to B is 
A  B： {D}(K’AB,CA), MAC(K’ABCA || {D}(K’AB,CA)). 
SNEP offers semantic security, data authentication, replay protection, weak freshness, low 
communication overhead…etc. 
    Another famous protocol of SPINS is μTESLA. It not only provides broadcast 
authentication but also solves the many inadequacies of the standard TESLA. μTESLA uses only 
symmetric mechanisms instead of initialing packet with a digital signature which is too expansive 
for sensor nodes. μTESLA also saves energy by disclosing the key once per epoch. Finally 
μTESLA restricts the number of authentication senders.  
The feature of μTESLA is that it requires the base station and nodes be loosely time 
synchronized, and each node knows an upper bound on the maximum synchronization error. In 
order to transmit an authentication packet, the base station computes a MAC on the packet with a 
key which is a secret at that point in time. When a node received that packet, it can verify the 
MAC key of that packet was not yet disclosed by the base station according to its time loosely 
synchronized clock, its maximum synchronization error, and the time schedule at which keys are 
disclosed. The node then stores the packet in a buffer. At the time that the key was disclosed, the 
base station broadcasted the verified keys to these nodes. When the receiver receives the key, it 
can verify the correctness of the key by used of the one way key chain. After that the node can 
use the key to authenticate the packet stored in its buffer. The verification of the key is as 
following： 
Each MAC key which is generated by a public one-way hash function F is a key of a key chain. 
In order to generate the on way key chain, the sender randomly computes the last key Kn of the 
key chain as the initial input of F and repeatedly process F to compute all the keys of the key 
 12 
    Node compromise presents many security threats for WSNs. The resent researches, 
statistical en-route filtering mechanism (SEF) [19], an interleaved per hop authentication scheme 
(IHA) [20], and a location-based resilient security solution (LBRS) [21], provide some efficient 
scheme to protect WSNs from fabricate report attack. SEF is the first paper that addresses false 
sensing report detection problem in the presence of compromised sensors. 
But there are some problems in these previous researches. They address these problems at a 
location several hops from the attacker, which results in high resource consumption and the 
spread of damage across the network. This paper aims to find a way to solve the problems 
completely. 
 
 
 
 
3. Proposed Scheme 
 
    The cluster-based WSNs have been proved the higher performance than non-clustered [1]. 
However, one of the important potential factors of the so called “higher performance” is the 
degree of correlation between inter-cluster nodes’ readings. In order to ensure the full 
performance superiority of clustered WSNs over non-clustered WSNs, the degree of correlation 
between inter-cluster nodes’ readings must be high. One should know that the degrees of 
correlation are not fixed. The way to achieve that goal is to make each cluster binding within the 
same isoclusters [1]. 
    In addition to lower the number of traffic by packet aggregation in the clustered WSNs, the 
security of aggregation is also important. One should realize that if some compromised nodes 
always report the fake messages to cluster heads, it would cause down the performance of 
aggregation and make the data invalid. In our scheme, we use the statistic analysis technique to 
detect these attacks. Before constructing the scheme, we should bind the range of isocluster first. 
Following are the requirements in our scheme 
 14 
 
 
3.1 Dynamic Range Binding of Isoclusters 
    In order to increase the degree of correlation between inter-cluster nodes’ readings, we 
should bind the range of isoclusters first. Than, we use HEED protocol [7] to achieve clustering 
within the isoclusters. 
    Before binding the range of isoclusters, we should compute the cluster binding range factor 
Sc’ of each node to judge whether or not the node should be included in the range. The standard of 
Sc’ of each node will be known at training phase of the network. 
    Figure 3-2 is the data structure of the sensor’s look-up table. As time go by, sensors sense 
data and store the contents in the look-up table. They can queue data for a while (in figure 3-2, 
sensors can queue data from time slot T1 to time slot T5) and compute the mean value Mi (see 
figure 3-1) of data Di real-time in each column of look-up table. Each Dij of the table means the 
sensing data of data type Di at time slot Tj.  
 
 16 
    Then we can judge Sc’ from Sc. If Sc’ ≠ Sc, it means there are some events occurred at the 
range of this node. The sensors will record the abnormal data type and inform its neighbor its Sc’.  
 
 
    When events occurred in the network, the Sc’ of sensors would be different from the Sc. 
Depending on the information exchanged periodically by sensors, the sensors will know whether 
their neighbors and the ones who is two hops away from them were in the range of isoclusters or 
not. When sensors get the information that their two hops away neighbors are in the range of 
isoclusters, they will broadcast “starting clustering” messages and start to cluster. The sensors 
which were located on the boundary of isocluster would know themselves (see Figure 3-4), 
because they know the Sc’ of their neighbors. When the ones who were located in the isocluster 
got the information that the Sc’ of their neighbors equal to Sc, they are on the boundary of 
isocluster. Figure 3-4 shows a scenario of isoclusters binding range. The node with blue colored 
represents that they were located in the range of isoclusters, vise versa. The degree of color on the 
background is represented as the degree of event. The node circled (see the node located in the 
middle of circle) is on the border of the isocluster. When it got the information (i.e. Sc’) of its red 
colored neighbors, it knows itself that “I am on the border of the isocluster”. 
    After binding the range of clustering, we use the HEED protocol [7] to execute the detail 
 18 
of the detection process： 
1. Trusted samples filtration. 
2. Reasonable data range analysis.  
3. Judging of compromised nodes. 
3.2.1 Trusted Samples Filtration 
    The clusters in WSNs formed when there are events occurred nearby, so the data ranges in 
one cluster were limited. Therefore, we use the neighbors of a node which is the destination of 
detection as the voters to vote that whether the destination is compromised or not. The problem is 
that each non-cluster-heads is not only the destination of detection but also a voter. If there were 
some compromised nodes between neighbors, the degree of accuracy would be very low. So we 
have to choose the trustful samples to trust them as voters. According to retirement 7, the 
numbers of compromised neighbors are less than half of a node’s neighbors in WSNs. Figure 3-6 
shows the parameters used by following steps. 
1. After receiving the data from non-cluster-heads, cluster-heads compute the Mi at each time 
slot Ti. (the number of time slots is the same as that in the look-up table of each sensors) 
2. Find the half of data set at Ti that most close to the Mi. According to requirements, the 
neighbors who transmit these data are the trust voters. 
3. In order to judge the remainders is worthy to be trusted or not, we use the standard deviation 
Ei to identify. If the value of the difference e from Mi to data (e = Dij - Mi) is less than or 
equal to Ei (i.e. e <= Ei), we then consider that node which transmit that data as a legal voter. 
The reason why choose Ei to identify whether the remainders are trustful or not is that the 
standard deviation Ei represents the arrangement of data. If standard deviation is high, it 
means the range of data spread loosely and vise verse. Furthermore, all normal density 
curves satisfy the following property which is often referred to as the Empirical Rule. 68% 
of the observations fall within 1 standard deviation of the mean, 95% of the observations 
fall within 2 standard deviations of the mean, 99.7% of the observations fall within 3 
standard deviations of the mean. Thus, for a normal distribution, almost all values lie 
within 3 standard deviations of the mean. 
 20 
 
The effect of sensors ai and the effect of Tj, bj would be： 
ai = mi – M 
(j is the number of time slots in look-up table of each sensor) 
bj = Mj – M  (i is the number of voters) 
Then we compute the fitted value D’ij of each Dij： 
D’ij = M + ai + bj 
After compute the fitted value D’ij of each Dij, we would have the identical form of data at each 
time slot. But these are not the final result of range. We have to consider the residential 
differences between Dij and D’ij. The reasonable data of detection destination should be in the 
range of the data value provided by voters, so we must add the residential differences to D’ij. 
D”ij = D’ij + (D’ij – Dij) = 2D’ij – Dij 
    Finally, we find the up-bound Uj and low-bound Lj of data D”ij at each time slot Tj and these 
would be the reasonable range (from Uj to Lj at Tj). 
 
3.2.3 Judging of Compromised Nodes 
    When the cluster-heads want to detect the non-cluster-heads by judging whether they 
transmit spoofed data or not, they can use the data of their neighbors to achieve detection. After 
processing first and second steps of the scheme, the cluster-heads then get the reasonable range of 
 22 
 
 
 
 
4. Evaluation 
    In this section, we first analyze the environment where the simulations process 
in. Second, we show the result of our simulations and discuss several factors that 
can probably influence the results. Finally, we give a list of security discussion to 
our scheme.  
 
4.1 Environmental Analysis 
    The environment of our scheme should be based on the architecture of clustered organized 
wireless sensor networks. Contract to the traditional clustered WSNs, the action of clustering 
begins after the time that event occurred and locates within the isoclusters. As a consequence, the 
geographical locations of clusters are just right on the locations of events. So the range of data 
values is limited into a small scope. And the precision of detection for compromised nodes would 
be reasonable. But there are still two problems of our dynamic clustering environment. 
1. What is the size of clusters are suitable for the scheme? 
2. What is the relation between the isoclusters and the number of clusters?  
 24 
The size of one-hop cluster in the point of geographical view is： 
 (d + d + d)
2
 = 9d
2
. 
2. The number of clusters depends on the size of isoclusters. According to previous discussion, 
the size of one cluster in the point of geographical view is 9d
2
. Assume that events occurred 
and expend the range, we use the number of hop counts n (from the middle to the sides of 
the isocluster) to represent the size of isoclusters. When the range expends to n hops away, it 
consists of (2n+1)
2
 nodes. Figure 4-3 show the numbers of sensors in the case of one hop 
range and two hops range in the point of geographical view. 
 
 
 
Then we know the number of clusters in n hops is: 
(2n + 1)
2 
/ 9 
We use the generating function to represent all conditions of the cluster numbers︰ 
 
 
The answer of the statement is: 
 
 26 
 
 
   There are three cases of our simulation. Each of which were process over 200 times. We let 
the nodes compromised 20%, 30%, 40% of neighbors of each node. So there are N/5, 3N/10, 
2N/5 compromised nodes between N nodes spread in the network. The best case in our 
simulation is about 98.10% detection rates in 20% compromised case. According to that graph, 
we can see the higher precision the later time slot. Because the numbers of compromised nodes 
inside the network are much less than other case, the relation of geographically locations between 
compromised nodes does not apparently influence the result. So the better precision occurred at 
the less numbers of compromised nodes in the networks. There is another one factor that could 
also influence the result. That is the behavior of compromised nodes. The ones who were 
compromised might not transmit fabricated contents of message all the time. They can sometime 
fabricate data and sometime tell the truth. When the value of trustworthy is almost below the 
threshold, they can tell the truth until the value of trustworthy recovering. That is why some 
compromised nodes can not be detected. On the other side, the actions which caused down the 
performance of the network done by compromised nodes would be limited. That’s the goodness 
of our scheme. The scheme not only detects the compromised nodes inside the range of clusters 
but also limited the damages caused by compromised ones into 1-hop cluster. 
    One thing should be noticed in the figure 4-4 is that the detection precisions of 20% case 
 28 
compromised nodes would consider the factor of trustworthy values as an important detected 
element. These conditions were more apparently in more compromised nodes’ cases of the 
network. 
    Figure 4-6 shows the false detection rate for compromised nodes. We can see the worse case 
in the scheme is 1.21%. That means that there are 1.21 normal nodes of the detected 
compromised nodes. 
 
 
 
The better results occurred at fewer compromised nodes cases of the simulation. This is 
reasonable, because the numbers of compromised nodes in higher precision case are relatively 
less. The influence of geographically locations between compromised nodes for the result is not 
so much than more compromised nodes’ case. We can say that the false detection rate of 
compromised nodes is relative direct proportion to the number of compromised nodes. 
 
 30 
There are ten time slots in the evaluation. We use the HEED protocol to clustering, and gather 
statistics with the number of the packets. The packet sums of each time slot is representing that 
the number of transmissions which each node transmits one packet. This condition is not usually 
occurred in the network. Because the sensors do not sense data in each time slot, they sleep 
ordinary. When it needs to be sensed, the sensors wake up and work. Figure 4-9 shows the 
simulation result. 
 
5. Security Analysis 
 
    We provide a statistical voting scheme for detecting compromised nodes to protect inside 
attacker from modifying or fabricating data. Before analyze the security prosperities of our 
scheme, we should define the variables and functions of the environment first.  
    The scheme is implemented under the clustered WSNs. We define that there are n nodes in a 
1-hop cluster with range r. Each cluster has a designated cluster head, with loss of generality, 
defined as V1. Other nodes are defined as Vi, where i = 2, …, n. The trustworthy value of Vi is 
defined as Wi and S is the threshold used to determine whether a node is compromised or not. 
When V1 detect that Vi transmitted a fake message, V1 decreased the value of Wi. We define the 
action of decreasing as d(Wi). C is represented as the set of all compromised nodes in WSNs. The 
action of detection from V1 to Vi is defined as the function f(Vi) and the reasonable data range of 
Vi is Ri. If f(Vi) = 1 then Vi is detected as a compromised one and vice verse. The range of 
 32 
 (Wi > S) ∧ If((Vi f V1)  (M  V1)) 
 (Di ⊆ r) ∧ (f(Vi) = 0) 
 
Because the sensed data are originally transmitted to cluster-heads and the detection is proceed by 
cluster-heads, the process of our scheme does not cause additional packet transmission. In 
theorem 3 we define TD as the extra packet transmission caused by statistical voting scheme. The 
action that cluster-head computes Ri is defined as hvi(). The statements of theorem 3 are that for 
all cluster members, there exists a reasonable data range which cluster-head can use it to execute 
detection. The messages from cluster members are originally transmitted to cluster-head. 
Cluster–head then uses them to compute Ri, so there is no need for extra packet transmission. 
Theorem 3. ∀Vi, ∃f(Vi)  !∃TD. 
Proof: 
∵f(Vi) 
 hvi((Vi fV1) ∨ (Vi tV1)) 
∵ (Vi fV1) ∨ (Vi tV1)  TD 
 !∃TD 
 
The scheme is executed within 1-hop cluster. If the compromised node transmit the fake 
messages, that will be detected by cluster-heads. So the damages caused by compromised ones 
will not spread between clusters. In theorem 4, We define rj as the range of different clusters 
where j =1,2,3….. 
Theorem 4. ∀rj, ∃Di (Vi ∈ rj) ∧ (rj∩ rk = φ), Where i ≠j  
             (Dj ∈ rj) ∩ (Dj ∈ rk) = φ. 
Proof: 
∵(Vi ∈ rj) 
∃f(Vi) 
(Dj ∈ rj) 
Accord to Theorem 1 and Theorem 2 
 34 
7. Reference 
 
[1] N. Vlajic and D. Xia, “Wireless Sensor Networks: To Cluster or Not To Cluster?,” in 
Proceedings of the 2006 International Symposium on a World of Wireless, Mobile and 
Multimedia Networks, pp. 258-268, Jane 2006. 
[2] J. Y. Cheng, S. J. Ruan, R. G. Cheng, and T. T. Hsu, “PADCP: Power-Aware Dynamic 
Clustering Protocol for Wireless Sensor Network,” Wireless and Optical Communications 
Networks, 2006 IFIP International Conference on, pp. 6-, April 2006. 
[3] M. Yu, A. Malvankar, and L. Yan, “A New Adaptive Clustering Technique for Large-Scale 
Sensor Networks,” Networks, 2005. Jointly held with the 2005 IEEE 7th Malaysia 
International Conference on Communication, 2005 13th IEEE International Conference on, 
Vol. 2, pp. 6-, Nov 2005. 
[4] C. Y. Wen and W. A. Sethares, “Automatic Decentralized Clustering for Wireless Sensor 
Networks,” EURASIP Journal on Wireless Communications and Networking, 2005. 
[5] H. Su and X. Zhang, “Optimal Transmission Range for Cluster-Based Wireless Sensor 
Networks With Mixed Communication Modes” in Proceedings of the 2006 International 
Symposium on a World of Wireless, Mobile and Multimedia Networks, pp. 244-250, Jane 
2006. 
[6] S. Bandyopadhyay and E. J. Coyle, “An Energy Efficient Hierarchical Clustering Algorithm 
for Wireless Sensor Networks”, INFOCOM 2003. Twenty-Second Annual Joint Conference 
of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies. IEEE, Vol 3, pp. 1713-1723, April 
2003. 
[7] O. Younis and S. Fahmy, “HEED: A Hybrid, Energy-Efficient, Distributed Clustering 
Approach for Ad-hoc Sensor Networks,” IEEE Transaction on Mobile Computing, Vol. 4, 
Issue 4, Oct-Dec 2004. 
[8] M. J. Handy, M. Haase, and D. Timmermann, “Low Energy Adaptive Clustering Hierarchy 
with Deterministic Cluster-Head Selection,” Fourth IEEE Conference on Mobile and 
Wireless Communications Networks, Sep 2002. 
 36 
[19] F. Ye, H. Luo, S. Lu, and L. Zhang, “Statistical En-route Filtering of Injected False Data in 
Sensor Networks,” IN Selected Areas in Communications, IEEE Journal on, pp. 839-845, 
Volume 23, Issue 4, April 2005. 
[20] S. Zhu, S. Setia, S. Jajodia, and P. Ning, “An Interleaved Hop-by-Hop Authentication 
Scheme for Filtering False Data in Sensor Networks,” IN IEEE Proceedings of Symposium 
on Security and Privacy 2004, 2004, pp.259-271. 
[21] H. Yang, F. Ye, Y. Yuan, S. Lu, and W. Arbaugh, “Toward Resilient Security in Wireless 
Sensor Networks,” In ACM Proceedings of MobiHoc 2005, pp.34-45, 2005. 
[22] A. P. R. da Silva, M. H. T. Martins, B. P. S. Rocha, A. A. F. Loureiro, L. B. Ruiz, and H. C. 
Wong, “Decentralized Intrusion Detection in Wireless Sensor Networks” Proceedings of the 
1st ACM international workshop on Quality of service & security in wireless and mobile 
networks, pp. 16-23, Oct 2005. 
[23] O Dousse, C. Tavoularis and P. Thiran, “Delay of Intrusion Detection in Wireless Sensor 
Networks,” in Proceedings of the seventh ACM international symposium on Mobile ad hoc 
networking and computing, pp. 155-165, May 2006. 
[24] I. F. Akyldiz, W. Su, Y. Sankarasubramanian and E. Cayirci, "A survey of sensor networks," 
IEEE Communications Magazine, pp. 102-114, August 2002. 
[25] T. Roosta, S. Shieh and S. Sastry, “Taxonomy of Security Attacks in Sensor Networks and 
Countermeasures,” IEEE International Conference on System Integration and Reliability 
Improvements, Hanoi, Vietnam, pp. 13-15 Dec 2006. 
[26] C. Karlof and D. Wagner, “Secure Routing in Wireless Sensor Network: Attack and 
Countermeasures” in Proceedings of the First IEEE. 2003 IEEE International Workshop on, 
pp. 113-127, May 2003. 
[27] Basem Y. Alkazemi, Emad A. Felemban, “Towards a framework for engineering software 
development of sensor nodes in wireless sensor networks” in Proceedings of the 2010 ICSE 
Workshop on Software Engineering for Sensor Network Applications, pp. 72-79, 2010. 
[28] Zhi-Hong Guana, Li Dinga and Zheng-Min Kong, “Multi-radius geographical spatial 
networks: Statistical characteristics and application to wireless sensor networks,” Physica A: 
 38 
成果自評 
 
項目 
已
完
成 
未
完
成 
提出一個統計的投票機制用來偵測被攻擊者控制的節點 ˇ  
降低偽造報告攻擊對無線感測網路的傷害 ˇ  
可以偵測並且指出被攻擊者控制的節點 ˇ  
以叢聚為基礎的設計理念使受害節點的範圍可被控制 ˇ  
防止節點因為攻擊而減少其使用的期限 ˇ  
對於整個叢聚式環境進行正規化的模擬和安全分析 ˇ  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
 40 
技術特點 
對於在無線微型感測網路的攻擊, 藉由限制攻擊者的可攻擊範
圍，達到一個可以降低其傷害的解決方式。比目前提出的其他方
式，更能降低被惡意使用者控制的節點對於系統的傷害。並且能找
出發生此惡意攻擊的節點，對於之後系統的復原有很大的幫助。 
推廣及運用的價值 
主要可以提供環境上的資訊，監測目標的狀況，來提供操作者資
訊。運用上有監控戰場、自然環境、病人健康、家裡環境、工廠品
質監控等。因為設置方便而且對於系統的要求不高，所以應用的價
值相當的高。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
2目 次
一、 出國目的.................................................錯誤! 尚未定義書籤。
二、 行程 .........................................................錯誤! 尚未定義書籤。
三、 出國人員
四、 工作內容摘要 .........................................錯誤! 尚未定義書籤。
五、 結語 .........................................................錯誤! 尚未定義書籤。
六、 ACM Symposium on Information, Computer and Communications
Security （ASIACCS）議程...............................錯誤! 尚未定義書籤。
44/12 受大會以及 Chinese Academy of Sciences, Deputy Director Jiwu
Jing 邀請訪問中科院並演講 “Cloud Computing Security”
4/13-16 ACM Symposium on Information, Computer and
Communications Security 會議
4/17-18 ASIACCS steering committee 會議擔任主席
4/19 返台
三、出國人員：
謝續平現任交通大學資訊工程系教授暨 TWISC＠NCTU 主任，曾任
交通大學資訊工程系系主任、交通大學計算機與網路中心主任、中華
民國資訊安全學會理事長，現在擔任 IEEE Tran. On Dependable and
Secure Computing、 IEEE Trans. On Reliability、 Journal of
Computer Security 副編輯、IEEE RS Newsletter 總編輯。由於現在
擔任 ACM Symposium on Information, Computer and Communications
Security （ASIACCS） 推動委員會主席（steering committee
chair）。負責遴選籌辦國家單位，並督導籌辦進度。
四、工作內容摘要
由於擔任 ACM Special Interest Group on Security, Audit, and
Control (SIGSAC) 的 推 動 委 員 會 委 員 （ Steering Committee
member），並且擔任 ACM Symposium on Information, Computer and
6五、結語
本次大會由有來自全世界三十餘國作者投稿，稿件水準極高，接受率
極低，約為 10％，會議圓滿成功。會議組織與會議議程如下：
CONFERENCE ORGANIZING COMMITTEE
CONFERENCE ORGANIZING COMMITTEE
General Chair
Dengguo Feng
(feng@is.iscas.ac.cn, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, China)
Program Committee
Chair
David Basin(basin@inf.ethz.ch, ETH
Zurich, Switzerland)
Peng Liu(pliu@ist.psu.edu,
Pennsylvania State University, USA)
Local Arrangements
Committee Chair
Jiwu Jing
(jing@lois.cn, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, China)
Publication Chair
Peng Ning
(pning@ncsu.edu, NC State
University, USA)
Publicity Chair
Jie Li
(lijie@cs.tsukuba.ac.jp, University of
Tsukuba, Japan)
Workshop Chair
Dongdai Lin
(ddlin@is.iscas.ac.cn, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, China)
Tutorial Chair
Zhong Chen
(chen@cs.pku.edu.cn, Peking
University, China)
8六、會議議程
ASIACCS 2010: Beijing, China
Program Sketch
12 April 13:30-18:00 Registration Lobby of Building 2
13 April
8:00-8:50 Registration Meeting Room1, Building 8
8:50-9:00 Welcoming Remarks Meeting Room1, Building 8
9:00-10:00 Invited Talk Meeting Room1, Building 8
10:00-10:30 Coffee-break Meeting Room1, Building 8
10:30-12:00 Session 1:Privacy Meeting Room1, Building 8
12:00-13:30 Lunch Cafeteria in Friendship Palace
13:30-15:00 Session 2:Applied Cryptography Meeting Room1, Building 8
15:00-15:30 Coffee Break Meeting Room1, Building 8
15:30-17:00 Session 3: Network Security Meeting Room1, Building 8
17:30-19:00 Dinner Cafeteria in Friendship Palace
19:00-21:00 Steering Committee Meeting
(Steering committee members only )
Second Floor meeting Room,
Building 2
14 April
8:00-8:50 Registration Meeting Room1, Building 8
9:00-10:00 Invited Talk Meeting Room1, Building 8
10:00-10:30 Coffee Break Meeting Room1, Building 8
10:30-12:00 Session 4: Systems Security–I Meeting Room1, Building 8
12:00-13:30 Lunch Cafeteria in Friendship Palace
13:30-15:00 Session 5: Access Control–I Meeting Room1, Building 8
15:00-15:30 Coffee Break Meeting Room1, Building 8
15:30-17:30 Session 6: Security Protocols Meeting Room1, Building 8
18:30-20:30 Banquet Ju Xiu Yuan Friendship Palace
8:00-8:45 Registration Meeting Room1, Building 8
8:45-10:15 Session 7: Access Control–II Meeting Room1, Building 8
10
Advanced Program
The 5th ACM Symposium on Information, Computer and Communications Security
( ASIACCS 2010 )
（Beijing Friendship Hotel）
April 13, 2010
8:00 - 8:50 Registration
8:50 - 9:00 Welcoming Remarks
9:00 - 10:00 INVITED TALK:
Pierangela Samarati, Universita` degli Studi di Milano
Session Chair: Peng Liu
10:00 - 10:30 Coffee Break
Session 1: Privacy
Session Chair: Adam Lee
10:30 - 11:00 Towards Publishing Recommendation Data With Predictive
Anonymization
Chih-Cheng Chang, Rutgers University
Brian Thompson, Rutgers University
Hui Wang, Stevens Institute of Technology
Danfeng Yao, Rutgers University
11:00 - 11:30 Restoring Compromised Privacy in Micro-data Disclosure
Lei Zhang, George Mason University
Alexander Brodsky, George Mason University
Sushil Jajodia, George Mason University
11:30 - 12:00 Securely Outsourcing Linear Algebra Computations
Mikhail Atallah, Purdue University
Keith Frikken, Miami University
12:00 - 13:30 Lunch
Session 2: Applied Cryptography
Session Chair: Dongdai Lin
13:30 - 14:00 Attribute-based Signature and its Application
Jin Li, Illinois Institute of Technology
Man Ho Au, University of Wollongong
Willy Susilo, University of Wollongong
Dongqing Xie, Guangzhou University
12
Session 4: Systems Security –I
Session Chair: Andrei Sabelfeld
10:30 - 11:00 Preventing Drive-by Download via Inter-Module
Communication Monitoring
Chengyu Song, Peking University
Jianwei Zhuge, Peking University
Xinhui Han, Peking University
Zhiyuan Ye, Peking University
11:00 - 11:30 A Solution for the Automated Detection of Clickjacking
Attacks
Marco Balduzzi, Eurecom
Manuel Egele, University of California, Santa Barbara
Engin Kirda, Eurecom
Davide Balzarotti, Eurecom
Christopher Kruegel, University of California, Santa Barbara
11:30 - 12:00 PAriCheck: An Efficient Pointer Arithmetic Checker for
C Programs
Yves Younan, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven
Pieter Philippaerts, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven
Lorenzo Cavallaro, University of California, Santa Barbara
R. Sekar, Stony Brook University
Frank Piessens, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven
Wouter Joosen, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven
12:00 - 13:30 Lunch
Session 5: Access Control –I
Session Chair：Robert Deng
13:30 - 14:00 An Opportunistic Authority Evaluation Scheme for Data
Security in Crisis Management Scenarios
Enrico Scalavino, Imperial College London
Giovanni Russello, Create-Net
Rudi Ball, Imperial College London
Vaibhav Gowadia, Imperial College London
Emil Lupu, Imperial College London
14:00 - 14:30 Effective Trust Management Through a Hybrid Logical
and Relational Approach
Adam J. Lee, University of Pittsburgh
14
18:30 - 20:30 Conference Banquet
April 15, 2010
8:00 - 8:45 Registration
Session 7：Access Control –II
Session Chair：Ting Yu
8:45 - 9:15 A Logic for Authorization Provenance
Jinwei Hu, Huazhong University of Science and Technology
Yan Zhang, University of Western Sydney
Ruixuan Li, Huazhong University of Science and Technology
Zhengding Lu, Huazhong University of Science and Technology
9:15 - 9:45 Risk-based Access Control Systems Built on Fuzzy
Inferences
Qun Ni, Purdue University
Elisa Bertino, Purdue University
Jorge Lobo, IBM T. J. Watson Research Center
9:45 - 10:15 Attribute Based Data Sharing with Attribute Revocation
Shucheng Yu, Worcester Polytechnic Institute
Cong Wang, Illinois Institute of Technology
Kui Ren, Illinois Institute of Technology
Wenjing Lou, Worcester Polytechnic Institute
10:15–10:35 Coffee-break
Session 8: Systems Security - II
Session Chair：Engin Kirda
10:35–11:05 binOb+: A Framework for Potent and Stealthy Binary Obfuscation
Byoungyoung Lee, POSTECH
Yuna Kim, POSTECH
Jong KIM, POSTECH
11:05–11:35 Secure Provenance: The Essential of Bread and Buffer of Data
Forensics in Cloud Computing
Rongxing Lu, University of Waterloo
Xiaodong Lin, University of Ontario Institute of Technology
Xiaohui Liang, University of Waterloo
Xuemin (Sherman) Shen, University of Waterloo
16
15:50–16:10 A Hotspot-based Protocol for Attack Traceback in Mobile Ad Hoc
Networks
Hungyuan Hsu, Penn State University
Sencun Zhu, Penn State University
Ali Hurson, Missouri University of Science and Technology
16:10–16:30 Practical ID-based Encryption for Wireless Sensor Network
Cheng-Kang Chu, Singapore Management University
Joseph K. Liu, Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore
Jianying Zhou, Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore
Feng Bao, Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore
Robert H. Deng, Singapore Management University
16:30–16:50 A Game Theoretic Model for Digital Identity and Trust in
Online Communities
Tansu Alpcan, Deutsche Telekom Laboratories
Cengiz Orencik, Sabanci University
Albert Levi, Sabanci University
Erkay Savas, Sabanci University
16:50–17:10 Scene Tagging: Image-Based CAPTCHA Using Image Composition
and Object Relationships
Peter Matthews, Cliff Zou
University of Central Florida
17:30 - 19:00 Dinner
End of the conference
96年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：謝續平 計畫編號：96-2221-E-009-139-MY3 
計畫名稱：設計與實作無線微型感測網路攻擊偵測、防禦與高信賴度的安全傳輸機制 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際
已達成數)
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備註（質化說明：如
數 個 計 畫 共 同 成
果、成果列為該期
刊之封面故事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 1 30% 
S.I. Huang, S.P. 
Shieh, ＇Method and 
System for Secure 
Data Aggregation in 
Wireless Sensor 
Networks,＇Taiwan 
patent pending, 
2008. 
專利 
已獲得件數 0 0 100% 
件 
 
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 5 5 100%  
博士生 1 1 50%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
研討會論文 2 0 50% 
1.Lian Lee, 
Shiuhpyng 
Shieh, ＇Protecting 
User Privacy with 
Dynamic 
Identity-Based 
Scheme for Low-cost 
Passive RFID Tags,＇ 
Information 
Security 
Conference, May 
2008. 
2.Warren W. Lin, 
Shiuhpyng Shieh, 
Jia-Chun 
Lin, ＇Lightweight, 
Distributed Key 
Agreement Protocol 
for Wireless Sensor 
Networks,＇ IEEE 
Conference on Secure 
System Integration 
and Reliability 
Improvement, 
Yokohama, Japan, 
July 14-17, 2008 
(co-sponsored by 
IEEE Reliability 
Society and IEEE 
System, Man, and 
Cybernetics 
Society, published 
by IEEE Press).  
 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
 
