 2
摘要 
 
 
網路技術的日新月異，改變了人們原本的生活，像是原本侷限於時間與空間的學習方
式，也從教室逐漸轉移到電腦網路上， 雖然無法完全取代傳統的教學方法，但數位學習
(e-Learning)已成為生活數位化不可或缺的一環，許多的教學平台與數位教材也應運而
生。近年來，資料探勘的技術被廣泛的應用在資訊產業上，例如：資料分群(data 
clustering)、決策樹學習(decision tree learning)和關聯法則(association rule)等。
此外，線上數位學習也隨著網路技術逐漸成熟而更加蓬勃發展，若能在數位學習中應用資
料探勘技術的話，必然能使學習效果事半功倍。本系統期望整合 LDAP 與 JAXB 來降低搜
尋系統開發時，對文字剖析的複雜度，透過分析使用者的搜尋記錄過濾出課程關鍵字及挖
掘資料間的關聯法則，並將不同平台的教材資訊整合在同一伺服器中，以期增進學生學習
功效及讓教材內容更為豐富。 
 
 
關鍵字: 關聯索引;數位學習;LDAP; JAXB 
 
 
 
Abstract 
 
 
Along with the increasing development of Internet Communication Technology, it changes 
the life styles of human being. As the learning style previously limited with the space and time, 
the learning activity places are shifted from the traditional classrooms to computer network. The 
e-learning has become one of the important parts in digital life even it cannot substitute for the 
whole traditional teachings. In recent years, the technologies of data mining, such as the data 
clustering, decision tree learning and association rule, etc. are widely applied to the information 
industry. In addition, since e-learning gets more popular as well as the internet technology 
becomes more mature, if adopting the concept of data mining to e-learning system, it will be 
good to make learning more efficient. Thus, we plan to utilize the techniques of LDAP and 
JAXB to reduce the load of development of search engine and the complexity of parsing the 
contents. Through analyzing the logs of users' searching behaviors, the keywords and the 
association among the learning materials for the users will be conducted or figured out. And then, 
we integrate with the related metadata of the learning materials in different platforms and 
maintain them in the dedicated server. We hope, with such the deployment, to achieve the goals 
of promoting the efficiency of studying and making the contents of the learning materials more 
abundant. 
  
 
Keywords: Association Rule; E-learning; JAXB; LDAP; 
 
 
 4
 
三、文獻探討 
3.1 關聯法則  
關聯法則是 1993 年時，由 Agrawal 等學者所提出，主要目的是從大量資料中，找出
資料間的關係。透過分析交易紀錄計算出支持度(Support)與信賴度(Confidence)，用以衡
量找出的規則是否具有意義，其中最具代表性的演算法為 Agrawal 等人提出的 Apriori 演
算法，其主要步驟為： 
 
(1).從資料庫中產生候選項目集(candidate set)，並找出符合最小支持度(minimum 
support)的頻繁項目集(large itemsets)。 
(2).利用步驟(1)所得出的頻繁項目集，從中獲得符合最小信賴度(minimum confidence) 
的項目。 
但在 Apriori 演算法中，步驟(1)需多次掃描資料庫，往往會花費大量的時間，因此陸
續有許多改良的演算法被提出，像是 DIC 演算法、DHP 演算法和 AprioriTid 演算法等。 
 
由於 Apriori 演算法產生的候選項目集需耗費大量記憶體，加上每次在修剪步驟時，
都要從資料庫中取得資料，造成資料庫的負擔，導致執行效率並非十分理想，因此 Han J.，
J. Pei 與 Y. Yin 於 2000 年提出樹狀(Tree-based)演算法，其不需產生候選項目集合，僅
需掃描資料庫兩次便可完成 FP-tree (Frequent-pattern tree)的建構，利用此樹狀結構直接找
出大項目集合的方法。 
不論在一般的網路瀏覽行為或是網路交易行為過程中，網路經營者都傾向當使用者選
取某個項目時，可藉由此項目的關聯，能主動推薦另一個與其個人喜好特性符合的項目，
運用關聯法則的技術於個人化網路推薦機制上是很重要的。因此，本系統利用關聯法則的
技術找出相同性質的數位學習行為藉此法則達到推薦進一步或相關教材的效果。  
 
3.2 協同過濾 
協同過濾(collaborative filtering)是個人化網路推薦機制之ㄧ，又稱為人物關聯式推薦
(people to people correlation)，目前廣泛應用在各類電子商務上，主要是指透過使用者資料
或行為模式的分析，來推測使用者對其他產品或服務的興趣。從協同過濾再向下細分，又
可分為以下幾種型式： 
(1).以規則為基礎的過濾 
指利用問卷或其他方式，獲得使用者偏好、興趣等資料，藉以作為推薦的參考。 
(2).以內容為基礎的過濾 
由使用者所選定的內容，推薦其他相關內容，推薦的內容大多使用事先分群或參
考其他使用者經驗。 
 6
PHP)的組合來實作，由於部份 Unix-based 的作業系統已內建其他三套軟體，加上上述軟
體皆為自由軟體(Free Software)，可輕易取得及使用，因此可免除許多導入系統時的問
題，主要流程如圖 2 所示。 
 
 
 
圖 2: 系統主要流程 
 
在圖 2 中，LDAP 儲存的是教材文字內容及儲存路徑，MySQL 被用來儲存使用者在
搜尋服務上的操作紀錄以及儲存關聯法則產生的結果，而協同過濾的結果則是更新到 
LDAP的教材內容紀錄中。 
 
 
5.1 檢索資料收集 
在教師上傳教材後，將 LMS 上的教材課程內容路徑當作參數傳給資料收集程式，以
本 校 遠 距 教 學 教 材 內 容 為 例 ， 是 使 用 StreamAuthor 所產生，而教材內容
大多是PowerPoint 文件所轉換的 Html 檔案，程式透過多型(polymorphism)的機制，事先
定義好 HtmlParser interface，只要透過實作該介面，即可讓系統符合各類教學平台的需求。
像是本系統實作了 PptHtmlParser 類別，用來專門處理本校遠距教學的教材內容。  
 
5.2 搜尋服務 
搜尋服務介面以網頁方式呈現，因此 Client 端只需 Web 瀏覽器即可使用本系統，不
需額外安裝其他軟體，除了一般搜尋外，也提供像「授課教師」、「單元主題」或「關鍵字」
等查詢條件設定，讓查詢結果更符合使用者需求。而呈現的結果，除了有 LDAP Server 中
的教材內容之外，還有透過關聯法則演算法所產生的相關詞及協同過濾所得到的課程關鍵
字。舉例來說，學生可能會在查詢「中國現代史」、「台灣史」後，再查詢某授課教師，原
因是該教師是位歷史老師，想得知該教師是否還有教授其他歷史課程。對系統而言，該教
師原本只是授課教師欄位的一筆資料，但在透過演算法分析之後，當使用者再次查詢相關
字詞時，便可將該教師推薦給使用者。 
 
 
 8
[1] Feng-jung Liu and Bai-jiun Shih,Learning Activity-based E-learning 
MaterialRecommendation System, Accepted by IEEE International Symposium 
onMultimedia (ISM2007), December 10-12, 2007.(本計畫相關之著作)  
[2] Feng-Jung Liu, Design of Self-directed e-Learning Material Recommendation System 
with On-line Evaluation, ICHIT 2008, 2008, August. 28-29, Deajeon, Korea. (本計畫
相關之著作) 
[3] Feng-jung Liu, Bai-jiun Shih, E-learning activity-based material recommendation 
system, Interactive Technology and Smart Education, VOl. 4, Issue: 4, P.200-P.207, 
2007, 11.(being funded by NSC96-2221-E-127-005). (本計畫相關之著作) 
[4] Apache Software Foundation, Jakarta Project － HttpClient, 
http://jakarta.apache.org/commons/httpclient/. 
[5] Derrickoswald and Somik, HTML Parser, http://htmlparser.sourceforge.net/ 
[6] Ed Ort, and Bhakti Mehta, Java Architecture for XML Binding (JAXB),  
http://java.sun.com/developer/technicalArticles/WebServices/jaxb/, March 2003. 
[7] J.S Park, C.Ming-Syan, and S.Yu.Philip, An Effective Hash Based Algorithm for 
Mining Association Rules, Proc. of ACM SGMOD, pp 175-185, 1995. 
[8] R.Agrawal, and R.Srikant, Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules, Proc. of the 
20th VLDB Conference Santiago, 1994. 
[9] S.Brin, R.Motwai, J.D.Ullman, and S.Tsur, Dynamic Itemset Counting and Implication 
Rules for Market Basket Data, ACM SIGMOD Conference  on Management of Data, 
pp 265-276, 1997. 
[10] Han J., J. Pei, and Y. Yin, Mining frequent patterns without candidate generation, In 
Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of data, 2000. 
[11] CyberLink StreamAuthor, 
http://www.cyberlink.com/multi/products/main_7_ENU.html. 
[12] Sheng-Tun Li and Chu-Hung Lin, On the distributed management of 
SCORM-compliant course contents, Advanced Information Networking and 
Applications, 2005. AINA 2005. 19th International Conference on Volume 1, Issue, 
28-30 March 2005 Page(s): 221 - 226 vol.1 
[13] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami, Database mining: A performance perspective. 
IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 5(6):914{925, December 
1993. Special Issue on Learning and Discovery in Knowledge-Based Databases. 
[14] Anderson, J. R. (1980). Cognitive Psychology and Its Implications. San Francisco: W. 
H. Freeman and Company.  Ausubel, D. P. (1968). Educational Psychology: A 
Cognitive View. New York: Holt, Rinehart & Winston.   
[15] Klemke, R. (2000). Context framework – an open approach to enhance organizational 
memory systems with context modeling techniques. Proceedings of the Third 
International Conference on Practical Aspects of Knowledge Management 
(PAKM2000), Basel, Switzerland, 30-31 October. 
[16] Masiello, I., Ramberg, R., & Lonka, K. (2005). Attitudes to the application of a 
Web-based learning system in a microbiology course. Computer & Education, 45, 171-185. 
[17] Mladenic, D., & Grobelnik, M. (2003). Feature selection on hierarchy of web 
documents. Decision Support Systems, 35, 45-87.  
[18] Nonaka, I., & Takeuchi, H. (1995). The Knowledge-Creating Company – How 
大仁科技大學 
參加國際學術會議出國報告書 
會議名稱 International Conference on Convergence and Hybrid 
Information Technology (ICHIT 2008) 
與會時間 2008 年 8  月  28  日至 8  月 29  日 
舉辦地點 HOTEL RIVIERA YUSEONG, Daejeon, Korea 
撰寫人 劉豐榮 
服務單位 大仁科技大學數位多媒體設計系 
代表（報名）單位 IEEE, Computer Society, SERC, Korea Information Assurance Society 
聯絡電話/ Email 08-7624002#374/ fjliu@mail.tajen.edu.tw 
報告摘要 
ICHIT is the most comprehensive conference focused on the various 
aspects of advances in Hybrid Information Technology. All research results 
about the current and emerging areas of technology and other states trends 
to ensure efficient and cost effective deployment of governmental or 
commercial services, reduce the risks of innovation through IT analysis 
may be presented in this conference. 
The goal of this conference is to bring together the researchers from 
academia and industry as well as practitioners to share ideas, problems and 
solutions relating to the multifaceted aspects of Information Technology. 
This conference will feature world-class plenary speakers, exhibitions, and 
a large number of oral and poster presentations.  
The conference invites new and original submissions addressing theoretical 
and practical topics in information technology and intelligent computing 
fields including (but not limited to these topics):  
1. Bioinformatics and Computational Biology 
2. Communications and Networking 
3. Data Mining and Pattern Recognition 
4. Grid and Distributed Computing 
5. Intelligent Robotics and Autonomous Agents 
6. Hardware and Software Design 
7. Health and Medical Informatics 
8. Learning Systems and Smart Card Technology 
9. Human-Computer Interaction and Multimedia 
10. Image and Signal Processing 
11. Convergence in technology and evaluations 
12. Convergence in Network and Intelligent systems 
Design of Self-directed e-Learning Material Recommendation System with 
On-line Evaluation  
 
 
Feng-Jung Liu 
Department of Digital Arts and Multimedia Design, TAJEN University, Taiwan 
fjliu@mail.tajen.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract 
 
Along with explosive growth of the IT and Internet, 
they have led much development on education, such as 
e-learning, distance learning and on-line learning etc., 
which provide learners with another better alternative 
for learning at anytime and anywhere. Practically, the 
essence of the Information technology application on 
education is that Learning is the essential and the 
technology is the auxiliary. That is, on education, the 
information technology just acts as a method or a tool 
in the process of learning. 
As the IT gets more mature, the e-learning becomes 
more popular. If the e-learning can effectively exploit 
the techniques of Data-mining, it will make user-
learning more efficient. Thus, in this project, we not 
only continue the e-learning activity-based material 
recommendation system construction, but also design 
the self-evaluation system supporting with semantic 
search for an adaptive learning platform.  
In this paper, we mainly propose the ontology-
based self-evaluation system with material 
recommendation system for providing a better learning 
platform. In the item bank construction, we will invite 
some domain experts to assist the collection and 
creation of examination questions and classification. 
We believe such self-directed learning system will be 
good for the improvement on the efficiency of the e-
learning and will be beneficial to get more 
achievements on learning for learners.  
 
1. Introduction 
 
Computer-based systems have great potential for 
delivering learning materials [6], which efficiently 
release teachers from handling mechanical matters so 
they can practice far more humanized pedagogical 
thinking. However, information comes from different 
sources embedded with diverse formats in the form of 
metadata, making it troublesome for the computerized 
programming to create professional materials [7].  
In this paper, we mainly continue our previous 
material recommendation system [5] and propose the 
self-directed e-learning system with on-line evaluation 
system for a better learning platform. The design 
details will be described as follows.  
 
2. Related Works 
 
While human knowledge is accumulated to a huge 
mass of data, it will be aware that the self-directed 
learning style based on the problem-oriented policy 
will be raised again and will become one of adaptive 
learning modes in the knowledge-explosive era.[3,4] 
With the technology development of the assessment 
analysis, the effect relationship among concepts can be 
constructed by analyzing the testing results.[10,11,12] 
The project’s goal mainly focused on how to combine 
the online evaluation system with material 
recommendation system [5] and to provide self-
directed learners with complete course contents. 
Through the evaluation system, learners could 
understand their capabilities and learn efficiently their 
interested topics. These related works are described for 
details as follows. 
 
2.1. Problem-based Learning 
 
Problem-based Learning, PBL[1], is student-
centered; it is not focused on the teacher who passes on 
information to the students, but on the learning process 
of the student. Furthermore, problems drive the 
learning process. Students learn to deal with the 
problems they will be faced with in later professional 
practice. 
PBL mainly utilized these important, associated and 
practical cases to provide the necessary learning 
resources and directions and made learners learn of 
knowledge and problem-solved skills. We followed the 
essence of PBL to construct the item bank in the self-
learning system. 
 
 
Figure 3. Triple used as the construction of knowledge 
 
An item consists of a question, an answer and many 
Triples, references to related knowledge. Each item 
owns a concept independence coefficient to the concept 
triple. In intelligent test researches, the authors in [2] 
proposed an Evaluation Balance Table, EBT, to 
specify the key concepts of items. As show in Table 1, 
Qi represents question i; Cj represents the topic 
concept; eij represents the degree of relation between 
Qi and Cj, which values from 0 to 5. We can use the 
EBT to check the similarity between items. We also 
applied this table in our item bank construction. 
 
Table 1. Evaluation Balance Table. 
 
3.2. Material Recommendation 
 
In this material recommendation part, the system 
recommended the related content by analyzing 
previous learners’ activities. We kept at least ten terms, 
previously used by learners, in each unit. Additionally, 
term frequency is also maintained. We assume that in 
one unit, if the term gets a higher frequency, then it 
will be better to be one of possible keywords for this 
unit. 
In order to recommend the more adoptive 
content to users, we designed a characteristic 
evaluation formula as shown in Eq. 1 as a criterion for 
the rank of the recommendation. 
 
i.for Unit  essearch tim Total :Total
i.in Unit  S offrequcncy   term the:)S i,Frequence(
m.Search ter k The  :S
).(S keywords with i Unit of weight Total :G
number.unit  The :i
string.query  in the  termsofnumber  The:n
1 Eq.
Total
)Si,Frequency(
G
i
kk
th
k
n~1i
i
n
1k
i
i
∑
=
=
 
 
4. System Implementation 
 
 
 
Figure 4. The process flows of the on-line testing. 
 
In implementing the on-line testing system 
prototype, we mainly followed the flows as shown in 
Figure 4. When a user started the examination, he/she 
should firstly choice the initial item to answer. After 
answering each question, the ability of a learner will be 
evaluated by the system. If the estimated ability of a 
learner does not meet the termination criterion yet, the 
next question will be provided automatically. 
Otherwise, the test will be terminated, and the testing 
results and the suggestions for learners will be 
introduced from the evaluation system as shown in 
Figure 5. As shown in Figure 6, a learner followed the 
suggestions from the system to query the 
recommendation contents. And then, the URLs of 
these related contents will be provided by the material 
recommendation system. 
 
Relationship 
Between 
Qi and Cj 
Concept Cj 
C1 C2 … Ck … Cn 
Test 
Item 
Qi 
Q1 e11 E12 … e1k … e1n 
Q2 e21 E22 … e2k … e2n 
Q3 e31 e32 … e3k … e3n 
…
…
 
…
.…
 
…
.…
 
…
.…
 
…
.…
 
…
.…
 
…
.…
 
Qm 
em1 em2 … em
k 
 emn 
Concept 
node 
Concept 
node 
Property 
