 1
奈米 CMOS 之高性能類比數位混合信號關鍵電路設計技術－總計畫 
 
High-Performance Mixed-Signal Circuit Techniques in Nanoscale CMOS 
 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-009-180 
執行期限：97 年 08 月 01 日至 98 年 07 月 31 日 
主持人：柯明道教授  國立交通大學電子研究所 
共同主持人：郭治群副教授、吳重雨教授、胡樹助理教授、吳介琮教授、 
陳巍仁副教授、洪崇智助理教授 
 
一、中文摘要 
 
高性能類比數位混合信號關鍵電路設計
技術是目前台灣極力推動的 SOC 產業中不可
或缺的重要技術，因此，本整合型研究計畫朝
向發展出奈米 CMOS 高性能類比數位混合信
號關鍵電路之各種核心技術，並培訓台灣急需
的之電路設計人才。本整合型研究計畫有幸能
夠集合國內從事電晶體射頻與類比元件模型
之專家、無線傳輸電路設計之專家、高速連結
技術之專家、高性能濾波技術之專家、高性能
類比數位轉換技術之專家、以及積體電路可靠
度技術之專家，共同成立一研究團隊來從事
『奈米 CMOS 之高性能類比數位混合信號關
鍵電路設計技術』整合型研究計畫的研發工
作，藉由各相關領域專家之合作，開發前瞻類
比、射頻與混合信號電路之各種設計核心技
術，並培訓可開發各項高性能關鍵性電路之高
素質研究人員與技術人才。本整合型計畫針對
各個關鍵性電路進行最佳化設計，因此將可依
需求整合為符合各種新型有線或無線傳輸界
面之前端電路。設計完成之各高頻與高性能關
鍵性電路已實際下線製作，並驗證其性能。本
整合型研究計畫之研究成果及人才培訓，對我
國未來無線通訊、混合信號積體電路設計與高
性能傳輸界面設計的技術提升具有十足助
益。本整合型研究計畫包含五個子計畫，分別
是(1)奈米 CMOS 射頻與混合訊號模型研發應
用於超低功耗與低雜訊設計；(2)極低寄生電容
之靜電放電防護技術以應用於超高速/超高頻
積體電路；(3)奈米 CMOS 技術之 60~110-GHz 
射頻前端關鍵性積體電路研究與設計；(4)數位
強化式類比數位轉換技術；(5)用於高密度高速
連結系統之矽光電積體電路。本整合型研究計
畫所發展的核心技術，非常貼近現今臺灣積體
電路設計產業之實際需求。 
 
Abstract 
 
This project combines the resources of 
several researchers to investigate the advanced 
high-frequency and analog circuit design in 
nanoscale CMOS technology, so as to promote 
the government policy and satisfy the industry’s 
need. There are 5 sub-projects in this combined 
project: (1) nanoscale CMOS RF and 
mixed-signal modeling for ultra-low power and 
low noise design, (2) ESD protection technique 
with ultra-low parasitic capacitance for ultra 
high-speed/high-frequency integrated circuits, (3) 
research and design techniques of 60-110-GHz 
RF front-end ICs in nanoscale CMOS 
technology, (4) digitally-enhanced analog-digital 
conversion techniques, and (5) high-speed and 
high-density optical transceivers. Sub-project 1 
had developed enhanced device models in 
nanoscale CMOS technology and design 
ultra-low power RF front-end circuits. 
Sub-project 2 had developed novel ESD 
protection circuits with ultra-low parasitic 
capacitance for ultra high-speed/high-frequency 
circuits. Sub-project 3 had developed the key 
components in wireless transceiver front-end 
circuits using nanoscale CMOS processes for the 
frequency band from 60 GHz to 110 GHz. 
Sub-project 4 had developed the calibration 
technique to improve ADC’s resolution and to 
overcome the performance limitation due to 
mismatches. Sub-project 5 had design the optical 
 3
simulators to substantially improve RF circuit 
simulation accuracy for low-power and 
low-noise design in nanoscale RF CMOS 
technology. 
 
 
Fig. 1. 3-D configuration of GSG pads. (a) Lossy pad 
scheme: S-pads with stacked metals from M2 to M8. (b) 
Normal pad: S-pads with top metal (M8) only. (c) 
Equivalent circuit schematics of an enhanced lossy 
substrate model applicable to lossy, normal, and small pad 
schemes. 
 
 
Fig. 2. Equivalent circuit analysis and topology conversion 
for lossy substrate model parameter extraction. 
 
B. Three-Dimensional Capacitor Model in 
Nanoscale MOSFETs 
A 3-D interconnection simulator, namely, 
Raphael was employed to investigate the electric 
field line distribution responsible for the 
capacitive coupling between any two conducting 
electrodes. Three structures with different 
contact geometries, such as strip, square, and 
circular contacts, were implemented in this paper. 
Fig. 3 shows the front view of the device 
structure and the simulated field line contour. 
Note that the field lines started from or 
terminated at the conducting plates like the gate, 
as well as the source/drain diffusion region 
(Diff), and contact plugs (CT) always keep 
perpendicular to the surface of the conducting 
plates. The most important feature demonstrated 
by the 3-D interconnection simulation is a 
specific division line revealed between the gate 
and the contact plug. This division line is exactly 
parallel to the substrate surface and serves as the 
boundary for separating two symmetric 
trapezoid regions (Cg-ct2 and Cg-ct3), with the 
field lines originating from the gate sidewall and 
terminating at the CT, but with opposite 
curvature directions, i.e., one upward and 
another one downward. As the trapezoid regions 
are determined, the area below the horizontal 
division line is divided into two regions, namely, 
Cg-ct3 and Cg-diff , along a known diagonal line, 
in which the field lines start from the same 
electrode, i.e., the gate, but terminate at different 
ones, i.e., CT and Diff. Similarly, the area above 
the horizontal division line is separated into two 
regions (Cg-ct1 and Cg-ct2) along a diagonal 
line, which is a mirror reflection of the previous 
one. 
Through the analysis, four regions of field 
lines are partitioned, as shown in Fig. 3, to 
account for four components of capacitance, 
namely, Cg-ct1, Cg-ct2, Cg-ct3, and Cg-diff. 
The physical property of each component is 
defined as follows. Cg-ct1 represents the 
gate-top-to-CT-coupling capacitance. Cg-ct2 and 
Cg-ct3 are of equal amount but separated by the 
division line, and both are contributed from the 
gate-sidewall-to-CT coupling. Cg-diff is the 
gate-sidewall-to-Diff-coupling capacitance. This 
four-region capacitance partitioning is adequate 
to the structure with strip contacts having a 
uniform extension along the gate width. As for 
more common structures with square or circular 
contacts in an array, the coupling between every 
two CTs along the gate width should be taken 
into account, and two more four-region 
partitions are required to simulate the 
capacitances under a more complicated 
 5
 
Fig. 5. Three-dimensional structure of a MOSFET and the 
corresponding four-region capacitance partitioning for 3-D 
capacitor model development. The domain (123) in the 
central portion represents Cg-ct1, Cg-ct2, Cg-ct3, and 
Cg-diff due to capacitive coupling through the space 
between the gate and CT sidewalls. The domain (1”2”3”) 
at the two ends incorporates C”g-ct1, C”g-ct2, C”g-ct3, 
and C”g-diff contributed from the capacitive coupling 
between the CT and gate through the space between two 
adjacent CTs. 
 
 
Fig. 6. Four-region partitioning for parasitic capacitances, 
such as (a) Cg-ct1, (b) Cg-ct2, Cg-ct3, and (c) Cg-diff . 
All the dimensions required for calculating capacitances 
are specified in the full structure and each capacitance 
component. Lg: gate length, Lgct: gate-to-CT space, Tg: 
gate electrode thickness, Tox: gate dielectric thickness, Tct: 
CT plug thickness, and h: position of the division line 
from the gate’s bottom. 
2. 子計畫二：極低寄生電容之靜電放電防護
技術以應用於超高速/超高頻積體電路 
 
A. 低電容效應之靜電放電防護技術 
本研究首先量測在 130 奈米 CMOS 製
程中 P 型擴散區與  N 井接面 (P+/N-well) 
及 N 型擴散區與 P 井接面 (N+/P-well) 兩
種二極體在不同尺寸下的靜電放電耐受度與
寄生電容值。為了確保能提供一般商用規範的 
2-kV 人體放電模式靜電放電耐受度，靜電放
電防護二極體需使用 40 微米以上的周長實
現。接著利用仿製接收級電晶體  (dummy 
receiver NMOS) 架構，將電晶體的閘極連接至
輸入銲墊，並將電晶體的汲極、源極、基底接
地，搭配選定之靜電放電防護二極體尺寸與電
源箝制靜電放電防護電路，可量測此仿製接收
級電晶體的靜電放電耐受度。由於仿製接收級
電晶體的連接方式近似於一般接收級內電晶
體的連接方式，故可由仿製電晶體的靜電放電
耐受度推估一般接收級的靜電放電耐受度。此
靜電放電防護設計亦應用至 2.5-GHz 的高速
接收級界面電路，其量測到的 eye diagram 如
圖一所示，此外，此靜電放電防護設計可達成 
3-kV 的人體放電模式靜電放電耐受度。 
接著，本計畫研究了靜電放電防護電路對
於 5-GHz 差動式低雜訊放大器之影響。第一
種搭配靜電放電防護電路的低雜訊放大器是
使用雙二極體 (Double-Diode) 當作輸入輸出
端之靜電放電防護元件，並搭配電源線間靜電
放電箝制電路，如圖二(a) 所示。第二種搭配
靜電放電防護電路的低雜訊放大器是使用雙
矽控整流器 (Double-SCR) 當作輸入輸出端
之靜電放電防護元件，並搭配電源線間靜電放
電箝制電路，如圖二(b) 所示。本研究亦設計
沒有搭配靜電放電防護電路的差動式低雜訊
放大器，以驗證低雜訊放大器的射頻效能與靜
電放電耐受度。在沒有搭配靜電放電防護設計
的差動式低雜訊放大器中，其人體放電模式 
(HBM) 與機械放電模式 (MM) 靜電放電耐
受度分別低於 50 V 與 10 V，第一種搭配靜
電 放 電 防 護 電 路 的 低 雜 訊 放 大 器 
(Double-Diode) 其人體放電模式與機械放電
模式靜電放電耐受度分別為 2.5 kV 與 200 
V，第二種搭配靜電放電防護電路的低雜訊放
 7
的電流，並可能使靜電放電箝制電路迅速的燒
毀。因此，本計畫研究了各種靜電放電箝制電
路的閂瑣效應免疫能力，並將這項研究成果整
理於表二中。 
 
 
圖四. 本計畫實現之低漏電靜電放電防護電路。 
 
 
圖五. 可承受三倍工作電壓之靜電放電箝制電路。 
 
表一. 低漏電靜電放電防護電路之量測結果。 
 
 
 
 
 
表二. 各種靜電放電箝制電路的閂瑣效應免疫能力。 
 
 
 
3. 子 計 畫 三 ： 奈 米 CMOS 技 術 之
60~110-GHz 射頻前端關鍵性積體電路研
究與設計 
 
A. 57-64GHz 三階諧波混頻器與寬頻壓控震
盪器 
在 60GHz 頻段上，主要為寬頻的系統，而
壓控震盪器的設計上頻率與可調整範圍通常
是互相抵制的，因此構思了此電路，如圖六所
示，利用三階諧波混頻器，所需要壓控震盪器
的頻率立刻可降低至三分之一，因此採用此電
路之優點，對於壓控震盪器而言不僅節省了功
率消耗(操作頻率降低了三分之一)，且有較大
且較準確的調整範圍，對於混頻器而言由於混
頻元件之三端頻率接不相同且頻率差距甚
遠，故在設計上可以利用些傳輸線，將不期望
之訊號移除，故可以得到較好的隔絕效果，並
且也降低了自混(self-mixing)效應。 
此外，在設計此混頻器由於採用三階諧波
的方式，混頻元件之最佳的偏壓點在於其閘級
電壓等於源及電壓，僅利用較大的 VLO 訊號，
使元件開關，故其電路幾乎不需要功率之消
耗。 
如圖七為 60GHz三階諧波混頻器與寬頻壓
控震盪器晶片照相圖，其使用 TSMC 0.13 　 m 
CMOS 製程，圖八為壓控震盪器之頻率範圍及
相位雜訊之量測結果，圖九為混頻器增益量測
結果，其全部之電路特性列於表三。 
 
 9
 
圖十. 57-64GHz 前端射頻接收器。 
 
 
圖十一. 57-64GHz 前端射頻接收器照相圖。 
 
 
圖十二. 輸出 I/Q 訊號之量測結果。 
 
表四. 57-64GHz 前端射頻接收器之特性。 
 
4. 子計畫五：數位強化式類比數位轉換技術 
 
A. A 32-mW 12-Bit 80-MS/s Pipelined ADC 
with Digital Background Calibration 
A 12-bit pipelined ADC was designed to 
demonstrate a new digital background 
calibration scheme that can calibrate stage gain, 
sub-DAC, and stage nonlinearity simultaneously. 
To enable background calibration, multiple 
uncorrelated random sequences are injected into 
a split-capacitor pipeline stage. By employing 
input-dependent generation of the random 
sequences, no extra signal range is required. 
Calibration data are extracted by 
correlation-based integration-and-dump. 
Nonlinearity is detected by solving simple linear 
equations. The proposed calibration scheme 
needs no matching requirement and is flexible to 
include multiple harmonics calibration. The 
offset effect can be simply treated as even-order 
harmonics and be removed by calibration. The 
analog signal path of the ADC is realized with 
switched-capacitor circuits. Digital calibration 
relaxes the dc gain requirement for the opamps 
and, thus, reduces their power consumption. The 
ADC was fabricated using a 65 nm CMOS 
technology. It consumes 32 mW of power while 
operating at 80 MS/s sampling rate. The 
measured distortion plus noise ratio (SNDR) is 
67 dB and the spurious-free dynamic range 
(SFDR) is 81 dB. 
Fig. 7 shows the architecture of the pipelined 
ADC. There are five pipeline stages followed by 
a 4-bit flash ADC. Each pipeline stage includes 
an analog processor (AP), a digital calibration 
processor (CP) and an encoder. The encoder 
ensure that Do,j is an accurate digital 
representation of Vj, where j=1…6. 
Fig. 8 shows the ADC chip micrograph. The 
core area is 20.750.92  mm . Digital circuits 
occupy about 30% of the total area. The digital 
block and the analog block use separate power 
lines. The supply voltage is 1.2 V. Operating at 
80 MS/s sampling rate, the analog block 
consumes 26 mW, while the digital block 
consumes 6 mW. All the voltage references are 
externally applied. Table 1 summarizes the 
measured specifications of this ADC chip. 
 
 11
 
Fig. 9. ADC architecture. 
 
 
Fig. 10. ADC chip micrograph. 
 
 
5. 子計畫六：用於高密度高速連結系統之矽
光電積體電路 
 
A. A Single Chip 2.5 Gbps CMOS Burst 
Mode Optical Receiver 
This study describes the design of a 2.5 Gbps 
burst-mode optical receiver in a 0.18 μm CMOS 
process. A dual gain mode TIA with constant 
damping factor control is proposed to tolerate 
wide dynamic range input signal. Incorporating 
automatic level tracking circuit (ATC), the TIA 
and limiting amplifier are DC coupled with 
feed-forward offset cancellation. Dual band 
filters are adopted in the ATC for a rapid 
response time while keeping the tracking error 
small. 
Fig. 11 shows the system architecture of the 
optical receiver. It integrates a transimpedance 
amplifier (TIA), a 3 stage limiting amplifier 
(LA), a gain control circuit for the TIA, a timing 
control unit (timer), and automatic threshold 
tracking circuits (ATC1-ATC3) on a single chip. 
According to IEEE 802.3ah recommendations, 
the OLT should adapt amplitude variation of 20 
dB for less than 400 ns (500 bit time) at 1.25 
Gbps operation. In this design, the targeted 
tracking time for the burst mode optical receiver 
analog front-end is less than 50 ns (125 bit time) 
at 2.5 Gbps operation. To achieve an input 
sensitivity level of -20 dBm and input dynamic 
range of 20 dB, the conversion gain of the 
transimpedance amplifier is switchable between 
dual gain modes according to the detected input 
signal level. In this design, the TIA provides 66 
dBΩ in the high gain mode and 57 dBΩ in the 
low gain mode, so as to avoid data jitter induced 
by signal-overload. Besides, the post amplifier 
provides additional 40 dB to generate fully 
switch logic signals (> 300 mVpp). The TIA and 
the LA are DC coupled with feed-forward offset 
cancellation utilizing the proposed ATCs. Here 
ATC1 performs as a power level detector of the 
TIA for gain mode switching, and also provides 
the input common mode level for differential to 
single-ended signal conversion. ATC2 and 
ATC3 capture the threshold deviation of the 
preceding gain stage by averaging the peak and 
bottom voltage levels. The offset voltage is then 
subtracted in the succeeding gain stage. One 
thing noteworthy is that the ATCs are applied 
only at the input of the 2nd gain stage and the 
output buffer, so as to provide sufficient offset 
suppression without too much hardware 
overhead. All the ATCs incorporate dual-band 
low pass filters to accelerate automatic gain 
mode setting and offset cancellation in the gain 
chains while maintaining a small tracking error. 
Integrating both transimpedance amplifier 
and post limiting amplifier in a single chip, the 
burst mode receiver provides a conversion gain 
of 106 dBΩ in the high gain mode, 97 dBΩ in 
the low gain mode, and a -3 dB bandwidth of 
1.85 GHz. The measured input sensitivity, 
overload level, and dynamic range of the optical 
receiver are -19 dBm, -2 dBm, and 17 dB 
respectively. The response time is less than 50 ns. 
Operating under a single 1.8 V supply, this chip 
dissipates only 122 mW. 
 
