Meade (1982) thought that, because the predictive period is too long and 
hydrological-hydraulic conditions keep changing, it is difficult to apply physical 
theories in sedimentation prediction. Numerous engineering studies predicting 
sediment yields were always done by assuming stability in the driving processes and 
steady hydrological-hydraulic condition. Such an assumptions are completely 
unrealistic and unsupportable (Palmieri et al., 2003; White, 2005), without saying the 
additional influence of recent climate change. 
Several studies used stochastic theory to explore the sedimentation problem. 
Gani and Yakowitz (1989) developed a probabilistic model to estimate the life of a 
reservoir and the probability of failure by considering rainfall-runoff process, 
sedimentation process, sediment transport process, and reservoir storage and release. 
Salas and Shin (1999) performed an uncertainty analysis for large reservoir sediment 
deposition data. Their study suggested that the uncertainty related to estimation of the 
sediment type and the trap efficiency are small compared to the estimation of annual 
stream flow and sediment inflow, required for application of sediment rating curves. 
Kuo et al. (2007) conducted a risk analysis for overtopping event of Feitsui Reservoir. 
In this study, they analyzed  different uncertain factors that could affect dam 
overtopping risk. By utilized five different methods, they assessed overtopping risk of 
Feitsui Reservoir. All these studies provided stochastic frameworks of risk-based 
approach of reservoir sedimentaiton.  
Both these risk-based approach for reservoir safety and sedimentation relies on 
assumption of hydrologic stationarity. Nowadays, this assumption is highly 
questionable. Climate change and human disturbances undermines this basic 
assumption which historically has facilitated with water resource management (Milly 
et al, 2008; Pielke, 2009). How to provide a reasonable representation of future 
condition becomes an essential issue for relative studies. In recent, AOGCMs have 
been widely adopted to represent the future climate. However, the reliability of the 
climate conditions projected by AOGCMs is always being debated. Conventional 
practice of simply applying changes in the statistical moment quantities is equivalent 
to sophisticated AOGCMs, but much easy for application (Wilks,1992). Because the 
increasing frequency of extreme hydrologic events could be the most significant result 
of future climate change (Fowler and Hennessey 1995), variability is more important 
than averages in conventional statistical practice (Milly et al, 2002 ;Katz and 
Brown,1992).  Therefore, a statistical description with time-variant second- and 
higher- order moments would be amenable for risk-based approach studies. 
Based on the concerns mentioned above, this study develops a theoretical 
framework and practical methodology for reservoir risk management. A statistical 
representation of future hydrologic condition is adopted with assumption of time-
variant moments. We focus on the impact of more frequent extreme hydrological 
events caused by climate change and quantify different risk factors by stochastic 
approach. First this study will develop an analytical conceptual model. Coupling 
physical governing relationship and economic tools, the model will derive the optimal 
decision condition of reservoir management. This conceptual framework is applied to 
Shihmen Reservoir as a case study. According to the knowledge learned from the 
analysis, this study will identify the potential risks of reservoir and provide 
appropriate suggestion for strategy and policy.    
2. METHODLOGY 
disaggregated model. In this model, the rainfall amount of extreme event is 
considered a portion of annual precipitation.   
 EP c P     (3) 
where EP  is  the rainfall amount of extreme event and   is independent white noise.  
Although EP  is treated as part of P , its uncertainty should be full independent from 
the annual rainfall. As this concern,  the randomness of   is dealt separately. The 
magnitude of   is another issue. According to Eq. (3),   is assumed to be normal 
distributed with 0 mean and c  S.D. 
 With the experience from the last decades, proportion of extreme precipitation 
events increasing in most area. The historical record evidently confirmed this trend in 
Taiwan. The historical data shows that this proportion is increase with a rate of 1.01% 
per year from 15.3% in 1989 in our study area.  Thus, the c  is extrapolated with 
similar rate to interprets this effect on EP . 
 EP  is another random variable partly independent from P  which may cause 
the change of reservoir overtopping risk. It is used to estimate the peak inflow of the 
annual maximum extreme event. The Rational equation is the simplest method to 
determine peak discharge from drainage basin runoff . A stochastic element included 
in the Rational equation allows realistic simulation of peak runoff rates (Arnold et al, 
1998). As the following eqation 
 p EQ d A C P     (4) 
where pQ  is the peak discharge, A  is the area of reservoir basin, and C  is run-off 
coefficient. 
2.3. Reservoir Sedimentation 
 Reservoir sedimentation process is involved in sediment supply, transport and 
deposition are generally not linearly dependent on the causal factors.  A 
comprehensive understanding or prediction of dynamic nature of sediment yield 
remains a working issue. with the art of the state. Universal Soil Loss Equation 
(USLE) given by Wischmeier and Smith (1978) are extensively used for prioritization 
of the watersheds. The USLE has been widely applied at a watershed scale on the 
basis of lumped approach (Williams and Berndt, 1972, 1977; Griffin et al., 1988; 
Dickinson and Collins, 1998) to catchment scale (Jain et al., 2001). This study applies 
similar form modified from USLE method and considers the annual precipitation as 
the main factor. 
 
1 1
b
t t
b
t t
V aP
V a P

   (5) 
where V  is reservoir sediment at deposit at  a specific year, a  is a scalar parameter 
and b a rate parameter. 
1
t
V  is the cumulative sediment deposition at the t year. The 
reservoir capacity is reduced with the increase of cumulative sediment deposition. 
Assume the initial capacity when 0t   is 0CAP , the effective capcity of reservior at t 
year will be, 
 
 0
1
t
tCAP CAP V   (6) 
 
 
 
 
Table1. The scenarios performed by numerical experiment. 
Precipitation Parameters Sediment Parameters
0 0/   Wଵ Wଶ b 
0.1 
0.15 
0.2 
0.5 
0.8 
1.2 
0.0 
0.001 
0.002 
0.005 
0.005 
0.01 
0.02 
0.03 
0.8 
1 
1.2 
1.5 
2 
3 
5 
3. RESULTS 
	This study analyzes the possibility condition of next fifty year to investigate 
the potential overtopping risk. Because the overtopping risk is dominated by extreme 
large event, we take the precipitation event of 90% exceedance probability as an 
indicator. First we test the influence of 0 0/   when 1w  and 2w  are fixed. 0 0/   is 
the ratio initial S.D. over mean value. It represents the fluctuation of precipitation 
condition.  It has been found that the increment of extreme event risk is very 
consistent. For cases with larger 0 0/  , the impact is even less because the original 
S.D is already very large. This implies for a region with a very severe condition (i.e. 
lots of droughts and floods.), the climate change actually does not make thing worse 
too much.  
Figure 3(a) demonstrate the scenario with different 1w , but fixing other 
parameters. Without saying, the increasing of mean value could lead to the increase of 
extreme events. However, the impact is not very significant. Comparing to Figure 
3(b), which is the case with different 2w , but fixing other parameters, the impact due 
to varying S.D is much more dominant.  This reconfirmed common statement that 
variability is more important than averages. 
Following we explore the impact to sedimentation due to precipitations 
uncertainty. The non-linearity of sediment is described as Eq. (5), mainly dominated 
by parameterb . This parameter implies the existing characteristic of geological, 
hydrological and human conditions. In general, b  range between 0.5-1 for most 
watersheds. In some area, it could be much large than 1. Figure 4 (a) is the annual 
sedimentation for each year. The annual sedimentation gradually increases for most 
cases. Rapid increase of annual sedimentation only occurs when the non-linearity is 
very strong. Figure 5(b) is for the cumulative sediment, which is also the reduction of 
sediment on the other hand. Similarly, only for very extreme case the volume will 
significantly increase. The uncertainty actually does not dominate the sediment 
behavior. 
APPLICATION  
The idea is further applied to the Shihmen reservoir in Taiwan. In the study 
are, the annual averaged precipitation is around 2350 mm and the S.D is 400mm. 
(a)																																																																																(b)	
Figure	5.	The	simulation	of	the	Shihmen	Reservior	
overtopping risk of the Shihmen reservoir. Figure 5(a) demonstrates the possibility 
that Shihmen reservoir will be fulfilled by sediment. Assuming the climate change is 
not very severe ( 2 0.005w  ), there is around 5% that it will lose it full capacity after 
50 years. With severer situation ( 2 0.003w  ), the death of reservoir will be 10-15 
year earlier. Figure 8 shows the overtopping risk under this condition. It indicated that 
around 20 years later, the overtopping risk will be larger than 10 year return period 
under severe climate change. Even for milder climate change case, the risk could be 
around 100 year return period after 40 years. All these results indicate that the 
Shihmen reservoir is facing a serious challenge in the next a few decades. 
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION 
This study develops a framework to investigate the overtopping risk due to 
time-variant climate factors. We find that the major source of risk still comes from the 
magnitude of extreme hydrological condition, for example, the amount peak flow. 
The reservoir sedimentation has a non-linear effect, but not very strong for most cases. 
The non-linearity depends on the characteristics of watershed. Therefore, some 
reservoirs may face more threats if the sedimentation problem is very sensitive to 
precipitations condition. The Shihmen reservoir is this case. The watershed sediment 
shows a very significant non-linear relationship to annual precipitation. As a result, 
the overtopping risk of Shihmen will be so high that it will be not worth to keep 
operating. Following, we are going to coupling economic analysis to explore this 
issue. According to the knowledge learned from the analysis, this study will identify 
the potential risks of reservoir and provide appropriate suggestion for strategy and 
policy.    
 
REFERENCES 
Dawdy, D. R., and Lettenmaier, D. P. (1987). “An initiative for risk-based flood 
design.”  J. Hydraul. Eng., 113(8), 1041-1051. 
Dickinson, A. and Collins, R. (1998) “Predicting erosion and sediment yield at the 
catchment scale.” Soil erosion at multiple scales. CAB Int 317–342 
FEMA. (1998) . Federal Emergency Management Agency, Mitigation Directorate, 
interagency Committee on Dam Safety, October 1998. Federal Guidelines for 
Dam Safety: Selecting an Accommodating Inflow Design Floods for Dams, 
FEMA 94. 
Fowler, A. M. and Hennessey, K. J.(1995). “Potential impacts of global warming on 
the frequency and magnitude of heavy precipitation.” Natural Hazards 11: 283–
303. 
Griffin, M.L., Beasley, D.B., Fletcher, J.J.,and Foster, G.R. (1988) “Estimating soil 
loss on topographically non-uniform field and farm units.” J Soil Water Conserv 
43:326–33 
Jain, S.K.,Kumar, S., and Varghese, J. (2001) “Estimation of soil erosion for 
aHimalayanwatershed using GIS technique.” Kluwer Academic Publishers. 
Water Resources Management 15:41–54 
Katz, R.W. and Brown, B.G. (1992) “Extreme events in a changing climate: 
variability is more important than averages”, Climatic Change 21: 289-302 
 1
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                    日期：2011 年 7 月 30 日 
一、參加會議經過 
World Environmental & Water Resources Congress 為世界上水利工程與水資源管
理之重要會議，該會議每年固定舉辦，討論各種技術發展，工程實務經驗與未來研
究方向等議題，World Environmental & Water Resources Congress 2011 今年於美
國加州棕櫚泉五月二十二日至二十六日舉辦，今年主題為 Bearing Knowledge for 
Sustainability，前後七天的會議中，分為數個議程談討不同意提，邀請有卓越研
究成果的專家學者進行演說，以及辦理短期課程，提供相關分析技術教學與指導。
主辦單位還特地舉辦工作坊，讓與會人士可以透過討論，集思廣益，並尋求共識，
進行議題探討。 
本次參加會議提早兩天到達以於五月二十一日參加 ASCE Environmental and Water 
計畫編號 NSC 99-2221-E-002-090 
計畫名稱 極端水文事件於水庫長期效應之分析與評估-以翡翠水庫為例 
出國人員
姓名 游景雲 
服務機構
及職稱 國立台灣大學土木系 
會議時間  年 月 日至  年 月 日 會議地點 Palm Springs, CA, USA 
會議名稱 
(中文) 2011 環境與水資源大會 
(英文) World Environmental & Water Resources Congress 2010 
發表論文
題目 
 (英文) The Risk Analysis Of Long Term Impact To Reservoir Under 
Extreme Hydrologic Events – Shihmen Reservoir A Case Study 
附件四 
 3
六、其他 
附件 1.議程大綱 
附件 2.發表之摘要 
Welcome!
On behalf of the American Society of Civil Engineers’ Environmental & Water Resources Institute, 
we are pleased to present you with this exciting Official Congress Program that so many ASCE-
EWRI volunteers and staff have produced for the World Environmental and Water 
Resources Congress 2011 in Palm Springs, California. As we finalized the event, we were 
reminded of what an important role engineers and scientists play in engineering our infrastructure. 
We’ve seen concerns about the sustainability in the design of nuclear cooling water systems and 
coastal barrier walls with the recent earthquake and tsunami in northeastern Japan and we’ve 
faced severe flooding in the eastern United States 
that might call into question the sustainability of our 
land use policies and forest and agricultural practices. 
We hope that our stimulating keynote addresses by 
Steven Stockton, USACE Director of Civil Works, 
and Peter Nelson, President of the Coachella Valley 
Water District and Salton Sea Authority Board Member, 
further encourage your understanding of both national 
and regional sustainability issues. Our Sustainability 
Symposium will offer many opportunities for further 
discussion.
The 2011 Congress received well over 1,000 
submissions. Through the volunteer service of our track 
chairs and reviewers we have selected over 750 oral 
presentations and 100 posters for your enjoyment. 
Many authors have opted to publish in the Congress 
Proceedings. As the General and Technical Chairs, we 
thank all involved in the Congress organization as well 
as the presenters without whom this event would not be 
possible. We also recognize our co-chairs Debra Leigh, Bill Flores Jr., Jamal Nagamia, 
and Martin Teal for their efforts on exhibits, local arrangements, student program and 
continuing education. 
Finally, we want to acknowledge the tremendous help of EWRI and ASCE staff under the leadership 
of Brian Parsons and Lucy King.
We hope you will enjoy the many networking opportunities the Congress offers. We have reserved 
Tuesday morning to give you the opportunity to attend one of six local technical tours or three 
recreational tours. Our premier social event on Wednesday evening will let you unwind and 
experience some leisure time in the company of old and new friends. Our social will take place 
poolside and on deck at the Renaissance Marriott Palm Springs Hotel. We hope you will join us!
Thank you for attending this great Congress. We hope you, too, will be “Bearing Knowledge for 
Sustainability” as a result of your professional pursuits in this venue!
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Program Highlights   3
Schedule at-a-Glance   5
Map   6
General Information   7
Program   10
Technical Program   26
Poster Sessions   55
Committee Meetings   60
Spouse/Guest Information &
Recreational Tours   62
Awards   63
Exhibit Hall   81
Exhibitors   82
PDH Form for Technical Program  85
Sponsors   86
Bearing Knowledge for Sustainability
World EnvironmEntal & WatEr rESourcES conGrESS 2011
R. Edward Beighley II, Ph.D, 
A.M.ASCE 
Technical Program Chair
Associate Professor,  
Associate Chair, San Diego 
State University, Dept. of Civil, 
Construction and Environment
EWRITC2011@asce.org
Mark W. Killgore, P.E.,  
D.WRE, M.ASCE 
General Conference Chair 
PSE Hydro Dam Safety  
Implementation Manager
Mark.Killgore@pse.com
debra leigh
Exhibits Chair 
and Sponsorships Chair
Leigh Environmental  
Equipment
Bill flores Jr., 
P.E. cPESc, cPSWQ
Local Arrangements Chair 
Project Manager,  
HDR, Inc.
Jamal nagamia, 
P.E., m.aScE
Student Program Chair 
Florida Department  
of Transportation
martin teal,  
P.E., P.H., d.WrE
Continuing Education Chair
Vice President,  
WEST Consultants, Inc.
EWri of aScE Staff 
Brian Parsons, P.E., m.aScE, Director
bparsons@asce.org
ann rountree, Manager
arountree@asce.org
andy Kropf, Senior Coordinator
akropf@asce.org
 
Sara Hagan, Board and Meetings Specialist
shagan@asce.org
lucy King, cmP, Senior Conference Manager
lking@asce.org
 
Jessica Johnson, Conference Coordinator
jjohnson@asce.org
World EnvironmEntal & WatEr 
rESourcES conGrESS 2011 committEE 
The WATER BEARER is an archetype… 
with water to provide the essence 
of new and fuller life, an earthen 
vessel to contain the community’s 
wealth. Cultural identity is derived 
from the local tribe’s relationship to the 
desert oasis. Water is the source of 
prosperous life and community in the 
desert, for commerce as well  
as pleasure.
2     Save the Date! May 20-24, 2012! Join ASCE-EWRI in Albuquerque, New Mexico for the World Environmental & Water Resources Congress 2012.
World Environmental & Water Resources Congress 2011 Program Highlights
13Th WATER DISTRIBuTIon SySTEMS 
AnAlySIS SyMPoSIuM (WDSA11)
MonDAy, MAy 23 - ThuRSDAy, MAy 26 
9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. (Catalina)
Since 1999, the series of WDSA (Water Distribution 
Systems Analysis) symposia within EWRI annual 
conferences has evolved into the premier forum 
for papers and presentations on water distribution 
systems analysis, modeling, and management 
around the globe. The EWRI Congress 2011 is 
the 13th WDSA symposium in the series with 
16 sessions and nearly 70 papers accepted for 
presentation in a dedicated track.
KEy EVEnT: 6Th WoRlD WATER 
FoRuM SyMPoSIuM: noRTh 
AMERICAn REGIonAl EVEnT 
TuESDAy, MAy 24 / 9:00 a.m. - 5:30 p.m. 
(Mojave learning Center)
An all-inclusive, multi-stakeholder process to find 
policy-oriented solutions to promote good water 
management (e.g., sustainable development, basic 
right to water, MGDs), this symposium will help 
formulate messages representing sentiments of  
the North American region, in advance of the 
Forum in Marseille, France, March 16-22, 2012.  
See page 17 for the symposium schedule.
The program will include invited speakers and 
panelists from the following organizations: 
American Water Resources Association (AWRA), 
Bechtel Corp., International Boundary and Water 
Commission (IBWC), North American Development 
Bank, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, United Water, 
Water Forum of Americas (WFA), World Water 
Corps, and others.
8Th uRBAn WATERShED MAnAGEMEnT 
SyMPoSIuM
MonDAy, MAy 23 - ThuRSDAy, MAy 26
9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. (Madera)
The 8th Urban Watershed Management Symposium 
continues the tradition of providing high 
quality information on major urban watershed 
management issues. Many sessions are organized 
by task committees of the Urban Water Resources 
Research Council. Sessions include topics on 
modeling, urban streams, water quality and 
quantity, total water management, low impact 
development practices, and more.
9Th SyMPoSIuM on GRounDWATER 
hyDRoloGy, QuAlITy, AnD 
MAnAGEMEnT
MonDAy, MAy 23 - ThuRSDAy, MAy 26
9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. (Pasadena) 
Groundwater is a critical water resource in today’s 
world. While groundwater resources are stressed 
the world over, with global climate change they 
are expected to play an ever-increasing role in 
meeting the water demands of the future. Join us 
at the 9th Annual Groundwater Symposium to learn 
more about the latest trends and challenges in 
groundwater hydrology, quality, and management.
ARID lAnDS SyMPoSIuM
MonDAy, MAy 23  
9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. (Sierra) 
The Arid Lands Symposium will provide a 
platform for the exchange of views among leading 
researchers on the state-of-the art science of 
semi-arid and arid land hydrology and hydraulics. 
Discussions will include issues related to global 
climate change and its impact on the hydrology 
of these regions of the world; current and future 
water management in arid regions; and hydrology, 
hydraulics, and sediment transport issues unique 
to these environments.
1ST InTERnATIonAl ClIMATE ChAnGE 
SyMPoSIuM
MonDAy, MAy 23 - ThuRSDAy, MAy 26 
9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. (Primrose D)
ASCE’s 1st International Climate Change 
Symposium program will cover a variety of topics 
including Federal, State, and local climate change 
activities and address such topics as adaptation, 
infrastructure impacts, planning issues, and 
an extensive modeling track. Learn from key 
government officials and practitioners, as well as 
experts in the field. 
SuSTAInABIlITy SyMPoSIuM
TuESDAy, MAy 24 - ThuRSDAy, MAy 26 
9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. (Mesquite F/G) 
Environmental and water resources professionals 
must integrate new sustainability concepts with 
traditional engineering solutions in order to 
meet the future needs of society. Learn how your 
peers are addressing sustainability in practice by 
attending the Sustainability Symposium.
Craig Farkos, Chair of the ASCE Committee 
on Sustainability, is the keynote speaker for 
the Sustainability Symposium. His committee 
provides the leadership for sustainability initiatives 
throughout the many ASCE institutes, including 
EWRI, and the committee has never been more 
active. Spurred on by two impressive documents, 
the Vision for Civil Engineering 2025 and its 
subsequent Roadmap for achieving that vision, 
the ASCE Sustainability Committee is poised to 
turn that roadmap into action. Mr. Farkos will use 
his keynote address to describe that new 2025 
engineer to us and encourage us to step up to our 
roles as policy leaders, environmental stewards, 
and life-cycle planners. ASCE is calling upon us to 
reframe and transform the built environment as we 
seek to create a more sustainable society. 
Michele Mician, Manager for the Office of 
Sustainability for the City of Palm Springs, will 
open the symposium. Ms. Mician was responsible 
for the creation of a City of Palm Springs Green 
Team Task Force, and she manages a budget 
of over $500,000 for sustainability endeavors, 
including energy management, recycling, outreach, 
environmental reporting, and staffing. Don’t miss 
this chance to be inspired and motivated by these 
dynamic leaders!
A Civil Engineering and Sustainability Brown Bag lunch (on your own)
Please join us for an informal gathering at the Date Restaurant, Renaissance Marriott Palm Springs Hotel on Wednesday, May 25 (12:30 - 1:30 p.m.)  
to network with other professionals and students, and to discuss ASCE’s direction on sustainability, the certification process, careers in sustainability,  
and definitions for case studies of sustainable projects.
EWRI CONgRESS 2011 IS PROUD TO HOST SEVEN IMPORTANT SYMPOSIA
FOR SYMPOSIA DETAILS, SEE TECHNICAL PROgRAM, PAgES 26-53.
2nD Annual EWRI Section 
& Branch Activities Council 
Chapter Development Workshop
SunDAy, MAy 22 / 1:00 - 5:00 P.M.  
(Smoketree C)
The EWRI Section & Branch Activities 
Council will host its second Chapter 
Development Workshop to promote 
and develop local EWRI Chapters and 
Affiliates. Participate in this half-day 
program to share local EWRI Chapter 
information, suggest ways EWRI can 
assist locally, and enhance communication 
between the National and Local 
EWRI. Take part in the roundtable to 
discuss Chapter development, program 
implementation, fundraising, event 
planning, and leadership development. 
Meet the EWRI Section & Branch Activities 
Council, EWRI Executive Board members, 
and ASCE-EWRI National staff. You  
are encouraged to attend if you are 
interested in what a local institute can 
offer or interested in creating a local 
chapter in your area. If you have any 
questions, contact Edra Brashear, 
EWRI Section & Branch Activities 
Chairperson, at ebrashear@
hnbconsultingengineers.com.   
AAWRE  
EThICS EVEnTS
AAWRE Expert Witness Sessions
MonDAy, MAy 23  
10:45 a.m. - 12:45 p.m. (Mesquite h)
WEDnESDAy, MAy 25 
11:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. (Mesquite h)
AAWRE Ethics Panel Discussions 
MonDAy, MAy 23  
1:15 - 3:15 p.m. (Mesquite h)
TuESDAy, MAy 24   
1:15 - 3:15 p.m. (Mesquite h)
Engineers consistently face decisions 
that have associated ethical implications. 
The safety of the public is our primary 
concern; however, personal gain or time 
pressures may challenge our commitments 
periodically. During this Congress, the 
American Academy of Water Resources 
Engineers will offer two popular two-hour 
interactive sessions with opportunities for 
small group discussions. These sessions 
will offer a solid opportunity for engineers 
to freshen up on engineering ethics and 
understand what other engineers consider 
as the best solutions in specific cases. 
These sessions also help you fulfill your 
annual Professional Development Hour 
(PDH) ethics requirement.
4     
The risk analysis of long term impact to reservoir under extreme hydrologic events – Shihmen 
Reservoir a Case Study 
Gene J-Y You1 
1National Taiwan University 
Reservoirs play an essential role in Taiwan’s water resources management. However, due to the impact of climate 
change, the suitability of Taiwan’s reservoirs faces emerging challenges. One important issue for Taiwan is the reservoirs’ 
safety. Because the extreme hydrology events happen more and more frequently, reservoirs will be having higher 
possibility of dam overtopping. The traditional design principle, Probable Maximum Precipitation (PMP) and Probable 
Maximum Flood (PMF), which was applied to decide the spillway capacity, is neither probable nor maximum from a 
realistic viewpoint. In addition, high reservoir sedimentation rate is another threat. The sedimentation significantly 
decreases the reservoir capacity and reduces reservoir’s function of flood protection and other benefits. Neither the 
overtopping and sedimentation risks are deterministic mechanism. Moreover, other potential risk factors which influence 
reservoir’s performance are also uncertain. Therefore, it is necessary to apply risk management, instead of deterministic 
methodology, to explore the long term impact on reservoir for better management.    
This study develops a theorical framework and practical methodology for reservoir risk management. It will focus on the 
impact of more frequent extreme hydrological events caused by climate change and quantify different risk factors by 
stochastic approach. First this study will develop an analytical conceptual model. Coupling physical governing relationship 
and economic tools, the model will derive the optimal decision condition of reservoir management. The conceptual model 
will be applied to discuss the influence of the cost/benefit and thee risk premium due to uncertainty for better decision 
making. Next, the conceptual framework will be modified to incorporate with hydraulic and hydrologic models for Shihmen 
Reservoir as a case study. Under the interdisciplinary framework, the ensemble simulation results will be used to 
demonstrate the long term impact of extreme hydrologic events. According to the knowledge learned from theoretical and 
practical analysis, this study will identify the potential risks of reservoir and provide appropriate suggestion for strategy 
and policy. By the effort made in this study, it is expected to benefit the sustainability of Taiwan’s reservoir in the future.                   
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：游景雲 計畫編號：99-2221-E-002-090- 
計畫名稱：極端水文事件於水庫長期效應之分析與評估-以翡翠水庫為例 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100% 撰寫中 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 4 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
1.研究成果已於 EWRI 2010 國際研討會發表 
2.進一步將整理結果投稿至 Journal 
3.因研究目標石門水庫較於翡翠水庫適宜，符合研究目的，本研究改以石門水庫作為研究
案例。 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
為模擬未來水文條件受到氣候變遷影響之情境，本研究利用序率及統計概念建構時變性動
差降雨產生方法，並且運用於水庫溢頂風險評估模式之中，而其中風險評估模式亦由本研
究在考量極端降雨事件、集水區降雨逕流、水庫淤砂、水庫防洪等相關水文過程發展而來。
相較目前為人熟知的全球環流模式，針對趨勢的模擬本研究所採用方法不僅在應用方面較
為便利，空間與時間尺度的使用上限制較少，因此可提供有關短延時降雨於小集水區之相
關研究作為參考。  本研究強調氣候變遷影響下可能降雨趨勢的模擬，基於模式應用之一
般性，缺少考慮實際情況中氣象、水文條件之物理上限，所以於中長期之部分模擬結果仍
有待檢討。針對特定個案研究來說，運用全球環流模式及水文水理模式搭配應用，仍為比
較嚴謹的分析方法。為讓風險對水庫管理層面之影響具體呈現，透過經濟角度分析水庫系
統之效益及成本，並定義兩者等值之際即為最佳終止操作時間，依此作為評估的準則。成
本估計方面，特別將重點置於壩體安全的考量上，溢頂風險成本、例行性維護費用或是水
庫終止所需之殘餘成本都將包含在其中；在效益方面，主要連結可用容量的多寡而決定，
而類似具有發電功能的水庫則在庫容受泥砂淤滿之後，藉由發電和少量取水仍有獲利之行
為亦需要納入考量。若要水庫能永續經營必須同時兼具風險與獲利之控制，假使未來極端
事件規模超乎水利工程手法可抗衡，上游水庫積蓄大量水體反而形成下游地區潛在之威
