  - 2 - 
bridge. 
KEYWORDS: bridge, deterioration, reliability  
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
The maintenance costs of bridges during their 
lifespan account for a major part of total life-cycle 
cost (LCC). However, the accuracy of estimation 
relies on how exact we can predict how bridges 
deteriorate as well as when and what maintaining 
action is taken. Many bridge management systems 
(BMSs) have provided with prediction tools to 
perform the estimation. A fundamental principle is 
that the costs are assumed to arise as soon as the 
maintaining actions are taken. As bridges may 
experience many uncertain times of various 
maintenances, a stochastic model is usually 
applied to determine whether an action should be 
taken or doing nothing at all as well as how the 
performance will be upgraded after an action is 
done. 
Conditions of bridge elements can be either 
measured by embedded sensors or simply 
inspected visually. Although readings from sensors 
are somehow more convincible compared with 
inspectors’ judgment, some limitations such as the 
costs and range of installation etc. still discourage 
us from use of embedded sensors. In fact, visual 
inspection has been widely applied on most 
highway and railway bridges in Taiwan since 
1990s. As a result of regular proceeding, a 
significant mass of data has been accumulated. 
This provides plenty of historical information for 
deterioration process and facilitates modeling 
deterioration of bridges. 
This study proposed a systematic approach to 
estimate the maintenance cost of bridges during 
their service life. A reliability-based model for 
prediction of deterioration was introduced. For any 
unique target bridge, a group of bridge samples 
with similar attributes can be selected from the 
bridge inventory (Huang, 2008). The deterioration 
trend can then be presented by the selected 
samples with a group of characteristic curves over 
time. Furthermore, the maintenance events were 
set to trigger if the bridge elements reached the 
critical performance levels. 
On the other hand, the costs associated with 
different maintaining actions were also 
summarized from the historical records. The 
maintaining cost for a bridge element can be 
simply taken as the sum of costs for all actions 
taken over its lifespan. Since the stochastic 
processes were involved, Monte Carlo Simulation 
(MCS) can be applied to generate the probability 
distribution of cost estimation. Finally, this study 
used a bridge element, expansion joint, as an 
experimental example to demonstrate the 
  - 4 - 
models, the principle of calculating maintenance 
cost (i.e. the sum of the action costs) still holds. 
Therefore, the accuracy of estimation relies on the 
prediction of deterioration and what actions are 
taken. 
 
2.3 Reliability-based Models for BMSs 
The goal of design of bridges is to make sure 
a satisfactory level of reliability, which implies the 
concept of risks. Thus, the performance of bridge 
elements should be quantified in terms of 
reliabilities, which make more sense than discrete 
condition states do. Thoft-Christensen (1995) 
proposed to apply reliability theory in BMSs. 
Frangopol et al (1997) used the reliability index, , 
to represent the performance level of a reinforced 
concrete (RC) bridge under corrosion. Also,  was 
used as a measure of bridge safety (Ghosn and 
Frangopol, 1999). Some more deterioration 
mechanisms of RC bridges were further 
summarized by Enright et al (1999). Their 
reliability index profiles can be obtained in a 
similar manner. As a matter of fact, Bridge 
Management in Europe (i.e. BRIME, 2001) has 
recommended the use of reliability techniques. 
In consideration of uncertainties, probability 
density functions of random variables were 
employed with the deterioration process as shown 
in Figure 1 (Frangopol et al, 2001). Kong and 
Frangopol (2003) introduced a method of 
analyzing life-cycle performance of deteriorating 
structures based on reliability. A computer 
program, Life-Cycle Analysis of Deteriorating 
Structures (LCADS), was developed to implement 
the simulation of activities which affecting the 
reliability profiles. 
 
Figure 1 Uncertainties with deterioration 
process (Frangopol et al, 2001) 
Although the above approaches have 
provided with a reliability-based framework for 
prediction of bridge performance and estimation of 
maintenance costs, the employment of such 
deterioration mechanisms requires specific 
nondestructive evaluations (NDE) which are often 
expensive and not feasible for all bridges. Instead 
of NDE, Estes and Frangopol (2003) attempted to 
use the visual inspection data provided from 
PONTIS to update the reliability of a bridge. 
However, the visual inspection data are not as 
perfectly quantitative as provided by monitoring 
sensors. Some revisions and conservative 
assumptions would be needed. 
In short, the efforts mentioned above suggests: 
(1) reliability-based model should be incorporated 
  - 6 - 
 
Figure 2 NCI and combinations of D & E 
 
Despite human error may be minimized there 
are still many uncertainties or unknown factors 
influencing the process of deterioration. In fact, 
there are lots of discrepancies from inspection 
among the same type of elements even under the 
same environment and experiencing the same 
period of time. As a matter of fact, the measures of 
performance from a number of bridge samples 
form a probability distribution. The deterioration 
over time can be schematically modeled by a 
group of distribution curves as shown in Figure 3. 
  
 
Figure 3 Schematic deterioration model 
In Figure 3, each curve represents the 
probability distribution of performance of a bridge 
element at a specific point of time. If the 
performance is measured by NCI, the mean as well 
as the variance of each distribution normally go 
increasing as the bridge elements deteriorate over 
time. 
   
3.2 Induction of Reliability Theory 
The performance model in Figure 3 can be 
easily transformed into a reliability index profile. 
If the acceptable level of NCI is set to be , the 
reliability Index, , of bridge elements can be 
calculated as follows: 




  
where  = Reliability index, 
 = Mean of NCI, 
 = Standard deviation of NCI 
Reliability Index, , represents the number of 
standard deviations, , which separates the mean, 
, of NCI from the critical condition, (i.e. NCI = 
). Figure 4 illustrates the notion of reliability 
index for bridge performance. 
 
 
Figure 4 Reliability index for NCI 
  - 8 - 
Figure 3 can be taken as the PDF for taking action. 
It is anticipated that the probability for taking "do 
nothing" is relatively larger than taking other 
actions at an early age of bridge (see Figure 6). On 
the other hand, the "replacement" is gaining bigger 
chance while the bridge element is getting worse 
(see Figure 7). The shape of the distribution skews 
rightwards year by year if the bridge elements 
deteriorate over time without any maintenance. 
 
 
Figure 5 PDF of taking actions 
 
Figure 6 PDF of taking actions for young bridges 
 
Figure 7 PDF of taking actions for bridges getting 
worse 
 
4. Example of Cost Estimation – Expansion 
Joint 
4.1 Reliability-based Deterioration Model 
To establish the deterioration model, 376 
samples of expansion joints which have not 
experienced any maintenance service, were 
collected from Taiwan National Freeway System. 
The selection of bridge samples followed the 
systematic approach for searching similar bridges 
proposed by Huang et al (2008). Samples with the 
same age were grouped to form the PDF of 
performance for each year. Figure 8 shows the 
result, the NCI profile, for selected samples. 
 
 
Figure 8 NCI profile for expansion joint 
 
4.2 Characteristic Curves for Deterioration 
The bridge samples are assumed to 
deteriorate in a similar manner since they are 
selected based on similar attributes which lead to 
deterioration (Huang et al 2008). This study uses 
the reliability index profile to represent the 
deteriorating process. As defined in 3.3 and 3.4, 
three levels of reliability indices, 1, 2, 3 were 
calculated due to 1, 2, 3 respectively, 
  - 10 - 
 
Figure 11 Flowchart of each cycle in MCS 
 
A 35-year of life span was considered in the 
working example. The reliability index, 1, profile 
for 250 simulations were plotted as shown in 
Figure 12. It can be seen that "do nothing" and 
"Preventive maintenance" are probably taken in 
the early age while "Repair" and "Replacement" 
occur more frequently after the middle of lifespan. 
Besides, "Do nothing" can possibly happen even 
the reliability index is very low. The maintenance 
cost for expansion joint can be accumulated by the 
costs associated with all actions taken over a 
35-year life span. As each cycle of simulation may 
produce different maintenance history, the sum of 
cost can be treated as a random variable provided 
with the mean and standard deviation. The result 
of cost estimation is presented in Figure 13. As a 
result, the estimation of maintenance cost for 
expansion joint forms a lognormal distribution 
with a mean of 120,768 TWD and standard 
deviation of standard deviation of 236,116 TWD 
(1 USD ≈ 33 TWD). 
 
 
Figure 12 1-profile for 250 simulations 
 
Figure 13 PDF for total maintenance cost 
 
5. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK 
5.1 Conclusions 
If x < 1 
Generation of 
random number x 
If x < 2 
If x < 3 
Replacement: 
Restore  to 
initial level 
Preventive 
maintenance: 
Increase  by 5% 
Do 
nothing 
Repair: 
Increase  
by 20% 
Renew the bridge 
age corresponding 
to new  
Restore   
back to initial 
state 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
Incur cost from cost PDFs 
by another random number 
If age = 
service life 
Next cycle 
Yes 
No 
Bridge age =1 
Go on 
next year 
  - 12 - 
Results," J. Bridge Engrg., 8(6), 374-382. 
[5] Frangopol, D.M., Lin, K.Y., and Estes, A.C. 
(1997). "Reliability of reinforced concrete 
girders under corrosion attack," J. Struct. 
Engrg., ASCE, 123(3), 286-297. 
[6] Frangopol, D. M., Kong J. S., and Gharaibeh, 
E. S. (2001). "Reliability-based life-cycle 
management of highway bridges," J. 
Computing in Civil Engrg., ASCE, 15(1), 
27-34. 
[7] Ghosn, M., and Frangopol, D. M. (1999). 
"Chapter 4: Bridge reliability: Components 
and systems." Bridge Safety and Reliability, D. 
M. Frangopol, ed., ASCE, 83-112. 
[8] Hawk, H., and Small E. P. (1998). "The 
BRIDGIT Bridge Management System," 
Struct. Engrg. International, 8(4), 309-314. 
[9] Huang, R. Y. (2006), "A performance-based 
bridge LCCA model using visual inspection 
inventory data," Construction Management 
and Economics, 132(10), 1069-81. 
[10] Huang, R. Y. and Hsu W. Z. (2007). "A 
reliability-based component deterioration 
model for bridge LCCA using visual 
inspection inventory data," J. Struct. 
Infrastructure Engrg. - Maintenance, 
Management, Life-Cycle Design and 
Performance. (under review) 
[11] Huang, R. Y., Mao, I. S. and Lee H. K. (2008). 
"Using data mining to explore the 
deterioration factors of reinforced concrete 
(RC) highway bridges in Taiwan," Proc., 25th 
Int. Symposium on Automation and Robotics 
in Construction (ISARC), 768-781 
[12] Huang, R. Y., Mao, I. S. and Lee H. K. (2008). 
"Dynamic classification of reinforced 
concrete bridges based on the deterioration 
patterns," Proc., 11th Int. East Asia-Pacific 
Conf. on Struct. Engrg.& Construction 
(EASEC), electronic proceedings C04-02. 
[13] Kong, J. S. and Frangopol D. M. (2003). 
"Life-cycle reliability-based maintenance cost 
optimization of deteriorating structures with 
emphasis on bridges." J. Struct. Engrg., 
129(6), 818-828. 
[14] Madanat, S., Kalaftis, M.G., and McCarthy, 
P.S. (1997). "Probabilistic infrastructure 
deterioration models with panel data." J. 
Infrastructure Systems, 3(1), 4-9. 
[15] Thoft-Christensen, P. (1995). "Advanced 
bridge management systems." Struct. Engrg. 
Rev., 7(3), 151–163. 
[16] U.S. Federal Highway Administration (1995), 
Recording and Coding Guide for the Structure 
Inventory and Appraisal of the Nation’s 
Bridges, Washington, DC. 
[17] Woodward, R.J., Haardt, P., Astudillo, R., 
Godart, M., Markey, I. and Bevc, L. (2001). 
"Bridge Management in Europe," Final 
Report, Forum of European Highway 
出席國際學術會議心得報告
計畫編號 97-2221-E-008-078
計畫名稱 橋梁 LCCA導入可靠度理論之構件劣化預測模式之研究(III)
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
黃榮堯，國立中央大學營建管理研究所教授
會議時間地點 2009年 8月 4-6日，馬來西亞蘭卡威（Langkawi, Malaysia）
會議名稱
7th Asia Pacific Structural Engineering and Construction Conference 2009
(APSEC 2009)
發表論文題目 此次未發表論文
一、參加會議經過
ASPEC（Asia Pacific Structural Engineering and Construction Conference）是在結構工
程與營建領域的國際研討會，第一屆是在 1989 年舉辦，之後每 3年舉行一次，今年為第
7屆。研討會於 8月 4日上午 9點在馬來西亞蘭卡威 Awana Porto Malai Langkawi酒店揭
開序幕。4日及 5日上午各安排 3場專題演講，中下午時間則分成兩個(4 日)及三個時段
(5 日)，各時段有五個平行場次進行論文發表，共有超過 100 篇文章。
本次研討會主題為「Innovative and Sustainable Construction for Mankind」，邀請之專
題演講與發表文章題目多與永續營建與設施延壽等課題相關。其中來自德國漢諾威
（Hanover）大學鋪面工程系 PROF. JUERGEN HOTHAN 所發表的專題演講” 
Environmental Friendly Heavy Traffic”十分有趣，該篇論文主要研究重車車軸位置之設計對
鋪面受力及破壞行為之影響，如此透過適當車軸位置之設計，可於鋪面承受力範圍內提
高車輛載重，或者使一定載重之重車降低其對鋪面受力破壞之影響，以延長鋪面壽命。
兩者皆對節能減碳有所貢獻。
二、與會心得
