terms of delay, jitter, packets loss and throughput to prove that the Advanced VHTC 
for next generation heterogeneous wireless networks can provide good QoS 
guarantees and obtain persistent transmission with high performance while 
performing seamless vertical handoff. 
 
Keyword: heterogeneous; Advanced VHTC; QoS; Wi-Fi/WiMAX 
 
1. Introduction 
In recent years, step by step, the government, schools, business and even 
families have been using Wi-Fi in their public or private areas to build up cheap or 
free WLAN services. The future WiMAX internet service providers will also extend 
their service scope gradually. Therefore, you can imagine that the whole city you live 
in the future will be covered in the scope of wireless network services, and become a 
ubiquitous network city [1]. 
 
In the heterogeneous wireless network environment, data is inter-transmitted by 
means of vertical handoff processes [2-6]. However, most wireless network systems 
provide mobile services only in a homogeneous environment, in which mobile 
devices move within the service scope of homogeneous wireless networks and 
perform handoff among base stations. This process, called Horizontal Handoff 
Process, can not continue the service when the mobile devices move to a 
heterogeneous wireless network. Therefore, this article proposes a seamless vertical 
handoff mechanism for heterogeneous wireless networks, which can extend the 
transmission scope and guarantee to maintain the quality of services. 
 
The article aims to integrate Wi-Fi/WiMAX heterogeneous wireless networks, 
improve the efficiency of wireless communication and the quality of transmission 
services, and achieve seamless network roaming with good real-time services for MN 
(Mobile Node) in heterogeneous wireless networks. Section 2 describes the related 
basic research on SCTP and MIH. Section 3 states the main research method of this 
article, Advanced Vertical Handoff Translation Center (Advanced VHTC), its function 
modules, and the way to improve its performance. In Section 4, we prove the usability 
of the proposed Advanced VHTC by showing brilliant results of the simulation and 
performance analysis. Our conclusion is provided in Section 5. 
 
2. Related Works: SCTP and MIH 
In the heterogeneous wireless network environment, handoff can have two types: 
horizontal handoff and vertical handoff. A handoff should possess the following 
 
Figure 1. IEEE 802.21 Architecture. 
 
The MIH Function [20-25] in the IEEE 802.21 architecture defines three 
different services: Event Services, Command Services and Information Services. 
 
Table 1. Event messages. 
Event messages Description 
Link_UP L2 link built up  
Link_Down L2 link disconnected 
Link_Going_Down L2 link going down 
Link_Detected New access point 
detected 
Link_Parameters_Change L2 Link Parameters 
(QoS) Changed 
Link_Handoff_Imminent L2 link ready to 
change connection to 
new access point 
Link_Handoff_Complete L2 connected to new 
access point 
 
a. Event Services (ES) : IEEE 802.21 allows handoff to be triggered by moving 
terminals. ES provides event messages to upper layers to trigger the handoff 
processes and consequently optimize the handoff processes. IEEE 802.21 
architecture enables MNs roaming between WiMAX and Wi-Fi to obtain seamless 
vertical handoff and persistent connection by integrating the environments of these 
two different wireless networks. The exchange in the heterogeneous wireless 
networks can also be smoother with optimal quality by establishing MAC Format 
mapping and QoS mapping between the packet formats of Wi-Fi and WiMAX. Figure 
3 shows the Advanced VHTC architecture, in which you can see PFTM (Packets 
Format Translation Module), QoS Mapping Module, Admission Control Module, and 
Handoff Management. The following describes the function of each module. 
 
 
Figure 2. Heterogeneous Wireless Networks. 
 
 
translation is performed according to different QoS formats or packet types in the 
heterogeneous wireless networks. 
 
3.3 Admission Control Module 
The Detect Label Module (DLM) is to detect the type of a coming packet. 
Remember that in the packet formats of WiMAX and Wi-Fi, some fields in the 
heading are reserved for the packet’s label definition in order to identify its type and 
priority. While the Queue Management Module (QMM) is primarily used for 
bandwidth management, it can be used with Admission Control Module (ACM) to 
decide if a new connection is accepted. In QMM, bandwidths are categorized into four 
classes: RCBR, Rrt_VBR, Rnrt_VBR and RBE with their priorities as the following: 
RCBR>Rrt_VBR>Rnrt_VBR>RBE. ACM serves as a very important part for controlling 
network QoS. When the network has high traffic load, ACM must decide if a new 
connection request is accepted based on the status of the system resource, so the QoS 
of the existing connections is guaranteed. However, in the proposed Connections 
Admission Control (CAC), we allow a lower-priority connection to borrow resource 
from a high-priority connection when its resource is insufficient, provided that the 
high-priority connection has spare resource. But the borrowed resource should be 
returned once the high-priority connection needs it. In this way, the resource 
utilization can be increased. On the contrary, a high-priority connection is not allowed 
to borrow resource from a lower-priority connection, so as to avoid starvation. Figure 
5 shows our CAC flow chart. 
 
 
Figure 5. CAC flow chart. 
 
3.4 Handoff Management  
mechanism for heterogeneous wireless networks. 
 
As shown in Figure 6, the MN begins session connection via Wi-Fi’s AP and CN. 
But when the MN is moving out of Wi-Fi’s service scope, to keep the session 
connected, the seamless vertical handoff processes start right away, as follows: 
 
Step.1 MN’s Wi-Fi Interface sends the event message “Link Going Down(1)” to 
MIHF, which then sends the event message “MIH_Link Going Down(2)” to 
MIH User to inform that the connection quality is going down. 
 
Step.2 Upon receiving the message and realizing that the connection is probably 
inadequate, MIH User sends the message “Get_Info_REQ(3)(4)(5)” to IS, 
which then responds with the message “Get_Info_RSP(6)(7)(8)” to 
investigate into other access nodes around MN. 
 
Step.3 When receiving the response from IS, if noticing that there is a WiMAX BS 
around, MN sends the message “HO_Prepare_REQ(9)(10)(11)” to AP to 
investigate the BS’s current status. AP then exchanges information via 
Exchange Info(12) with WiMAX’s BS, and responds to MIH User with the 
message “HO_Prepare_RSP(13)(14)(15)” together with the information of 
candidate access bases. 
 
Step.4 After receiving the status of candidate access bases, MIH User makes 
evaluation and chooses a proper candidate network access node. Then it 
sends the message “HO_Commit(16)(17)” to MIHF and the lower layers, so 
WiMAX Interface can build the connection with BS in advance via Connect 
to WiMAX(18) and obtain IP via Connect Finish(19). MN’s WiMAX 
Interface sends the event message “Link UP(20)” to MIHF , which then 
informs MIH User that the new connection is ready with the event message 
“MIH_Link UP(21).” When the MN gets WiMAX’s IP address, it informs 
CN of the backup IP address with SCTP-Dar’s ASCONF (Add New 
IP)(22)(23)(24), and CN acknowledges the message with 
“ASCONF_ACK(25)(26)(27).” 
 
Step.5 Wi-Fi Interface sends the event message “Link Going Down(28)” to MIHF, 
which then sends the event message “MIH_Link Going Down(29)” to MIH 
User to make sure the current Wi-Fi connection is inadequate. MIH User 
then sends the message “MIH_Switch_REQ(30)” to MIHF, which then 
 
Figure 7. Simulation network topology. 
 
As described in Figure 8, we use NS2 to generate five nodes, of which the 
middle one is set to be AP (BS) and the other four are placed to surround it. Four lines 
are generated from each of the four surrounding nodes, and they are CBR, rt_VBR, 
nrt_VBR and BE, respectively. Then under the normal network load, each line’s load 
is increased in turn to prove that the Advanced VHTC can provide good QoS 
guarantees even with high network load. The related simulation parameters of NS2 
are shown in Table 4. 
 
Table 4. Simulation parameters in NS2. 
Traffic Parameters 
Type CBR VBR_rt VBR_nrt BE 
Data size 512Byte 1~8K Byte 1~8K Byte 1~8K Byte 
Simulation Time 34 sec 
Traffic Load 1 25% 25% 25% 25% 
Traffic Load 2 70% 10% 10% 10% 
Traffic Load 3 10% 70% 10% 10% 
Traffic Load 4 10% 10% 70% 10% 
Traffic Load 5 10% 10% 10% 70% 
 
 
packet loss are generated. 
 
 
Figure 9. Wi-Fi simulation trace file generated by NS2. 
 
 
Figure 10. WiMAX simulation trace file generated by NS2. 
 
4.1 Simulation Results 
Figure 11 shows the throughput within the simulation of MN1 in Figure 7 
transmitting data to CN1 with four different priorities by means of the Advanced 
VHTC. As you can obviously see, although the throughput goes down temporarily 
due to vertical handoff in the handoff processes, the connection remains persistent and 
the throughput restores to its original level quickly. 
 
 
Figure 11. Throughput within the simulation. 
 
 
Figure 14. Jitter from the simulation results (Wi-Fi to WiMAX). 
 
 
Figure 15. Jitter from the simulation results (WiMAX to Wi-Fi). 
 
Figure 14 and Figure 15 show the calculated jitter from the simulation results of 
delay. Higher priority results in lower jitter. The sudden increase of jitter is also 
caused by data delay in the vertical handoff process. 
 
packets that are not sent out from the start to the end of the handoff process are 
counted as loss within the simulation. 
 
In summary of the above simulation results, the proposed Advanced VHTC for 
next generation heterogeneous wireless networks can provide good QoS guarantees 
and persistent transmission with high performance while performing seamless vertical 
handoff.  
 
5. Conclusion 
This paper proposed the Advanced VHTC architecture for next generation 
heterogeneous wireless networks environment to enhance the quality of services in 
mobile communication transmission by means of packets format translation and 
MIH/SCTP-based seamless vertical handoff mechanism in the architecture. The goal 
of QoS guarantees and seamless roaming are achieved, and these enable users 
roaming in the heterogeneous wireless networks to use wireless networks for more 
convenient information exchange. The results of the simulation have proved that the 
Advanced VHTC can provide good QoS guarantees in the heterogeneous wireless 
networks and achieve persistent transmission with high performance while performing 
seamless vertical handoff. 
 
計畫成果自評 
 
本計畫於異質無線網路之研究提出以MIH (IEEE 802.21)為基礎的無縫式垂
直換手機制，進而達到無縫式(seamless)漫遊與提供服務品質(QoS)保證。未來
將進一步與相關研究單位 (工研院電通所，中華電新研究所 等)，進行技術合作
或移轉，目前本研究之成果也已經延伸到無接縫雲端網路之研究 (Seamless 
Cloud Networking)，也已經於中研院之自由軟體鑄造場申請專案研究，深信未
來在雲端的世界中將提供實際的助益。 
相關的結果部分已經撰寫成論文投稿至兩篇國際期刊與五篇國內外會議論
文。在人員的訓練上，參與計畫的幾位樹德科技大學資工系研究所的同學，雖然
對理論的探討還未能有深入的了解，但是已經在程式設計、研究方法與研究態度
的養成上都有長足的進步，而且他們在問題的討論與程式設計的努力，對計畫的
進展也都有實質的幫助。 
因此，本計畫已充分達成目標。 
 
References 
 
[1] Kashihara S, Oie Y. Handover management based on the number of data frame 
[15] Stewart R, et al. Stream Control Transmission Protocol. IEFT RFC 2960. October 
2000. 
[16] Stewart R, et al. Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) Dynamic Address 
Recconfiguration. IEFT Network Working Group Internet-Draft. June 2005. 
[17] Li M, Fei Y, Leung V, Randhawa T. A new method to support UMTS/WLAN 
vertical handover using SCTP. IEEE Wireless Communications. 2004;11: 44-51. 
[18] Seok JK, Moon JC, Meejeong L. mSCTP for soft handover in transport layer. 
IEEE Communications Letters. 2004;8:189-191. 
[19] Chen Y-M, Lai M-Y, Lin S-C, Chang S-C, Chung T-Y. SCTP-based handoff 
based on MIH triggers information in campus networks. The 8th International 
Conference on Advanced Communication Technology; 2006. p.1297-1301. 
[20] De La Oliva A, Banchs A, Soto I, Melia T, Vidal A. An overview of IEEE 802.21: 
media-independent handover services. IEEE Wireless Communications. 
2008;15:96-103. 
[21] Eastwood L, Migaldi S, Qiaobing X, Gupta V. Mobility using IEEE 802.21 in a 
heterogeneous IEEE 802.16/802.11-based. IMT-advanced (4G) network. IEEE 
Wireless Communications; 2008. p.26-34. 
[22] Williams MG. Directions in Media Independent Handover. IEICE Transactions 
on Fundamentals of Electronics, Communications and Computer Sciences. 
2005;E88-A:1772-1776. 
[23] Lim W, Kim D, Suh Y, Won J. Implementation and performance study of IEEE 
802.21 in integrated IEEE 802.11/802.16e networks. Computer Communications. 
2009;32(1):134-143. 
[24] Jung Y-C, Kim B-K, Kim Y-T. SIP Based End-to-End QoS Negotiation Scheme 
for MIH. Broadband Convergence Networks. 2nd IEEE/IFIP International 
Workshop ; 2007. p.1-12. 
[25] Qureshi R, Dadej A, Qiang F. Issues in 802.21 mobile node controlled handovers. 
Telecommunication Networks and Applications Conference. Australasian; 2007. 
p.53-57. 
[26] Chen Y-C, Hsia J-H, Liao Y-J. Advanced seamless vertical handoff architecture 
for WiMAX and WiFi heterogeneous networks with QoS guarantees. Computer 
Communications. 2009;32:281-293. 
[27] Ali-Yahiya T, Bullot T, Beylot A, Pujolle G. A Cross-Layer Based Autonomic 
Architecture for Mobility and QoS Supports in 4G Networks. 5th IEEE  
Consumer Communications and Networking Conference; 2008. p.79-83. 
[28] Ali-Yahiya T, Sethom K, Pujolle G. Seamless Continuity of Service across 
WLAN and WMAN Networks: Challenges and Performance Evaluation. 
Broadband Convergence Networks. 2nd IEEE/IFIP International Workshop; 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
異質無線網路研究榮獲收錄 2011年世界名人錄 (Who's Who in the World 2011 
- 28th Edition ) 
 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
