 1
中文摘要 
在此兩年計畫研究中，已建立了一系列的實驗系統及實驗方法，來分別探討限制散熱
座應用不同冷卻方法之熱流特性。冷卻方法分為(一)自然對流與(二)平面噴流衝擊和自然
對流產生之混合對流兩種。在研究中探討影響自然對流及平面噴流的熱流性能之相關參
數分別列之如下：(一)自然對流－穩態格拉雪夫數(Grs)、噴流間距與噴嘴寬度比(H/W)與
散熱座高度與噴嘴寬度比(Hes/W)。(二)含平面噴流衝擊與自然對流之混合對流－穩態格拉
雪夫數(Grs)、噴流間距與噴嘴寬度比(H/W) 、散熱座高度與噴嘴寬度比(Hes/W)與噴流雷
諾數(ReD)。在限制散熱座之自然對流熱傳特性方面，分別針對暫態/穩態之局部和平均熱
傳特性作探討;且利用變異數分析 F 檢定法針對相關參數作統計敏感度分析。研究中亦針
對限制散熱座的自然對流熱傳特性提出新的經驗公式。在限制平面噴流衝擊於散熱座之
流力特性方面，本研究探討的流力特性包括：局部流速分佈、局部紊流強度分佈、沿噴
流中心線之噴流速度衰減與紊流強度變化。另外，亦利用變異數分析 F 檢定法針對相關
參數作統計敏感度分析。為了評估限制平面噴流衝擊於散熱座之混合對流熱傳特性，在
本研究中最後提出新的完整組合經驗公式，此公式可準確地預測自然對流與平面噴流衝
擊交互影響之混合對流的熱傳特性。 
關鍵字：散熱座，自然對流，二維平面噴流衝擊，格拉雪夫數，噴流雷諾數，紐賽數。 
 
ABSTRACT 
A two-stage (two years) experimental study on the fluid flow and heat transfer 
characteristics from confined heated extended surfaces by using different cooling methods has 
been conducted.  Two types of cooling methods such as purely natural convection and mixed 
convection due to slot jet impingement and buoyancy are employed in the present study.  The 
relevant parameters influencing fluid flow and heat transfer performance in natural convection 
and slot jet impingement studies are listed, respectively.  They are: (1) natural convection － 
the steady-state Grashof number (Grs), ratio of jet separation distance to nozzle width (H/W) 
and ratio of extended surface height to nozzle width (Hes/W).  (2) slot jet impingement － the 
steady-state Grashof number (Grs), ratio of jet separation distance to nozzle width (H/W), ratio 
of extended surface height to nozzle width (Hes/W) and jet Reynolds number (ReD).  Their 
effects on fluid flow and heat transfer characteristics in natural convection and slot jet 
impingement have been systematically explored.  For confined extended surfaces with natural 
convection cooling, the transient-/steady-state local and average heat transfer characteristics 
have been studied.  Beside, a statistical sensitivity analysis of ANOVA F-test is also employed 
to investigate the parametric sensitivity on the thermal characteristics.  Furthermore, new 
correlations of steady-state average Nusselt number in terms of relevant influencing parameters 
for confined extended surfaces have been presented.  For confined extended surfaces with slot 
jet impingement, in the hydrodynamic aspect, the fluid flow characteristics including the local 
mean streamwise velocity distribution, local turbulence intensity distribution, mean streamwise 
velocity decay and turbulence intensities along jet centerline have been investigated.  In the 
heat transfer aspect for confined extended surfaces with slot jet impingement, the 
transient-/steady-state local and average heat transfer characteristics are studied.  A statistical 
sensitivity analysis of ANOVA F-test is also employed to investigate the parametric sensitivity 
on the thermal characteristics.  Finally, a new composite correlation of steady-state average 
Nusselt number for mixed convection from confined extended surfaces due to slot jet 
impingement and buoyancy has been presented. 
Keywords：Extended Surface, Natural Convection, Slot Jet Impingement, Grashof Number, Jet 
Reynolds Number, Nusselt Number. 
 3
1.  RESEARCH TASKS PROPOSED TO BE FULFILLED IN THE 
SECOND-YEAR STUDY 
 
2nd Year (08/2006-07/2007) 
Convective Heat Transfer from Heated Extended Surfaces with Slot Jet Impingement 
 
The main emphasis of the experimental results is on the transient-/steady-state heat 
transfer characteristics of a confined slot jet impinging onto heated extended surface.  The 
control parameters explored in the study are the steady-state Grashof number (Grs) (or 
steady-state convective heat flux, qcs), ratio of jet separation distance to nozzle width (H/W), 
ratio of extended surface height to nozzle width (Hes/W) and jet Reynolds number (ReD).  The 
following heat transfer characteristics for the confined extended surface with slot jet 
impingement will be explored: 
Surface Temperature Distributions 
Transient Heat Flux Distributions of Input Power 
Transient Convective Heat Flux Distribution 
The effects of steady-state Grashof number, H/W, Hes/W ratio and jet Reynolds number on 
transient convective heat transfer performance will be explored in detail, respectively.  A 
correlation of transient convective heat flux will be finally proposed. 
(4) Local Heat Transfer Characteristics 
The effects of steady-state Grashof number, H/W, Hes/W ratio and jet Reynolds number on 
transient and steady-state local heat transfer performance will be also explored in detail, 
respectively.  A correlation of steady-state local heat transfer performance will be finally 
proposed. 
(5) Average Heat Transfer Characteristics 
The effect of steady-state Grashof number, H/W, Hes/W ratio and jet Reynolds number on 
transient average heat transfer performance are explored in detail, respectively.  A 
correlation of steady-state average heat transfer performance will be finally proposed. 
(6) Sensitivity Analysis 
 
2. INTRODUCTION 
 
Recently, the demand for compactness and higher operational speeds leads to high power 
density in electronic packages.  It is well-known that the failure of electronic components on 
chips is strongly dependent on the operating temperature.   According to Kiper [1] the 
reliability of components on chip decreases by 10% for every 2 ºC temperature increase and 
requires near-elimination of spatial temperature variations.  To meet the thermal requirement, 
choosing a proper cooling scheme is a matter of the highest concern for chip and packaging 
design. Because of the large exterior surfaces, heat sink is the most common thermal 
management hardware in use in the electronics industry recently.  The heat sink can be 
defined as a heat dissipater that operates as a result of the temperature difference and thermal 
resistance between the electronic package and the ambient air. A heat transfer enhancement 
technique of jet impingement with low air velocity, to meet the limitation of the resulting force 
of air jet exerted on the package, is a promising way to achieve higher thermal performance for 
compact electronics packages. To achieve a reliable cooling purpose with impinging jet one 
must choose a suitable jet configuration and surrounding geometry.  The slot jet configuration 
is employed in the existing study.  From the survey of existing literature, it may be found that 
the single slot jet is an effective method to remove the concentration heat to cool the so-called 
'hot-spot' of the heated surface.  In many high-performance applications such as 
 5
control mass flow without corrections and compensations for gas pressure and temperature.  
Finally, a flexible tube at the end of the air supply system to join the air jet test chamber, which 
will be introduced in the next subsection. 
 
Fig.1 Schematic of Overall Experimental Setup. 
 
Test section.  The test section consists of a slot jet test chamber and test block. A slot jet 
test chamber is separated into two parts for the flexibility of interchanging different nozzle jet 
configurations.  The upper plenum is made of 2 cm thick acrylic-plastic material which is 30 
cm long, and the internal cross section is 10x10 cm2.  It is designed to provide a controllable 
and stable air jet impinging onto the test surface.  There is a momentum dissipation plate with 
a size of 5x5x0.5 cm3 in dimension to dissipate the axial momentum of the air flow from the air 
supply system.  A 5 cm thick honeycomb is designed to create a uniform air flow with low 
turbulence.  The lower plenum is designed and constructed for the flexibility in interchanging 
different slot nozzle configurations.  In the present study, the variations of slot nozzle width 
are 5.0 mm, and the ratios of nozzle length to nozzle width are 1.  As for the confined jet cases, 
the air chamber with a confinement plate of 10×11 cm2 in dimension installed under the 
chamber is used.  The contact area between these two plenums is sealed with an O-ring for 
 7
 
 
Fig.2 Test Block of Heated Extended Test Surface. 
 
Table 1 Specification of Extended Surfaces 
 
 
 9
 
μρ /DVRe HjD =          (3) 
 
where Qm is the air flow rate; 
jV  represents the volume-weighted mean streamwise 
velocity at nozzle exit; W and l  are the width and length of the nozzle, respectively; and DH 
is the hydraulic diameter of slot nozzle, )(/2 WW +ll . 
 
Heat transfer characteristics.  Similar to the energy conservation concept for transient 
natural and forced convection experiments presented by Hung and Perng [4], Hung and Shiau 
[5] and Lin and Hung [6], it may be proposed that the total heat generated by the thermofoil 
heater, qt, is converted into the following four heat transfer modes at any specific transient time: 
(1) radiative heat loss, qr; (2) conductive heat loss, qk; (3) internal energy change in the control 
volume of stainless steel sheet, qi; and (4) convective heat dissipated from the test surface, qc.  
That is, 
 
ikrtc qqqqq −−−=            (4) 
 
This energy-balance equation calculates the net convective heat qc dissipated from the 
test surface to the air jet in the confined channel.  The total power input to heater is qtAH, 
which equals V
2
/R.  Here V represents the output voltage of the d.c. power supply, AH is the 
area of thermofoil heater and R is the resistance of the thermofoil heater.  qr is the radiative 
heat loss from the test surface to its surroundings.  It is evaluated with thermal diffuse 
gray-body networks for U-channel heat sinks proposed by Ellison [7].  According to the 
results of radiation analysis, the maximum radiative heat loss is less than 7.35% of the total 
input power for all the cases considered in the present study.  qk is the conductive heat loss to 
the insulated balsa slab.  It is evaluated by a two-dimensional conduction models.  In 
addition, the important factors to affect the predictions of this conductive heat loss are the 
thermal conductivity of the balsa wood used in the present experiments. The conductive heat 
loss qk can be calculated that it varies from 0.31% to 6.69% of the total input power in the 
present experiments. qi is the internal-energy change of the test surface during the experimental 
period. 
To perform the above calculations, it should be noticed that the heat losses through the 
lead wires and thermocouples are so small that they are to be neglected in the experiments. 
Before the experimental results of the transient and steady-state condition are displayed, it is 
necessary to clarify the steady state of each experiment. Usually, the steady-state condition is 
considered to be achieved when qi approaches zero; the qr and qk reach their steady-state 
values, respectively; and the qc variation with time is less than 1.0% of the previous qc value in 
each experiment.  In general, the steady-state conditions for a slot jet impingement cases can 
be achieved about 30 minutes after the power is turned on.  Accordingly, the power-on 
transient period is defined as the time elapsed to achieve the steady-state condition after the 
power is switched on. 
The transient local and stagnation Nusselt numbers can be respectively defined as 
 
aj xw,
H x c,
a
Hx
x )kT(T
Lq
 = 
k
Lh
 = Nu −  (5) 
 11
distributions are precisely measured with calibrated T-type thermocouples, and they are ranged 
between 31.71
o
C and 66.92
 o
C for the cases of the confined extended surface.  The ambient 
temperatures in the experiments are varied between 21.56
o
C and 25.16
o
C. A total of 70 cases 
with various parameter combinations in the present experiments are studied. 
 
Transient Surface Temperature Distributions 
 
Since the slot jet impinges normally onto the extended surface with an axisymmetrical 
flow, an axisymmetric transient temperature distribution of the heated extended surface is 
expected.  To verify that the experimental conditions are spanwise-symmetrically maintained 
and the transient results are achieved in a spanwise-symmetric form, all the axial temperatures 
are measured.  The spanwise-symmetrically temperature distributions are ensured for various 
steady-state Grashof numbers, H/W, Hes/W ratios and jet Reynolds numbers.  From the 
present results,, an abrupt temperature drop occurs in the region near the stagnation point so 
that high heat transfer performance near the stagnation point can be expected.  The effect of 
jet Reynolds numbers on transient-/steady-state local dimensionless temperature distribution is 
more significant than that of Hes/W, H/W ratios and steady-state Grashof number.  As the jet 
Reynolds number increases, the temperature distribution will become more non-uniform. 
 
 
Fig.3  Schematic of the Heated Extended Surface with Relevant Definition of Parameters.  
 
Transient Convective Heat Distribution 
 
The effects of steady-state Grashof number, H/W, Hes/W ratio and jet Reynolds number 
on transient convective heat transfer performance are investigated, respectively.  From the 
results, it manifests that Grs, ReD, H/W and Hes/W have no significant effects on the normalized 
 13
t (min)
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90
q c
/q
cs
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
Slot Jet Impinging onto Confined Heated Surfaces
H/W=5, ReD=961~972, x/W=0
490.34
589.99
704.57
790.62
901.40
Smooth Surfaces
370024
444043
516458
592034
652603
qcs (W/m
2)GrsSymbol
1567.64
1372.92
1201.15
1077.44
1803.54629394
377365
412855
472646
558437
qcs (W/m
2)Grs
E.S. (Hes/W=0.90)
Eq. (9)
Eq. (11)
Symbol
Eq. (12)
Eq. (10)
 
 
Fig. 4 Effect of Grs on Transient Convective Heat Flux at x/W=0. 
 
From the results, a reasonable trend is achieved and it may be concluded that the more 
strongly convection generates, the more quickly the steady-state condition reached.  Besides, 
the speed of steady-state condition increases with decreasing the Hes/W ratio. 
 
Transient Local Heat Transfer Characteristics 
 
For the typical case with a specified steady-state Grashof number, H/W, Hes/W ratio and 
jet Reynolds number, say Grs=5.58x105, H/W=5, Hes/W=0.90 and ReD=961, Figure 5 manifests 
that the highest heat transfer during the transient period occurs at the center of the heated 
extended surface.  Besides, the transient local Nusselt number for a specified Grashof number, 
H/W, Hes/W ratio and jet Reynolds number decreases along the distance from the center toward 
the edge. Similar trends can be found for other cases investigated in the present experiments.  
As compared with the data for confined smooth surface with slot jet impingement, the transient 
 15
on the extended surface with slot jet impingement. The results reveal that the transient local 
Nusselt number at x/W=0 is strongly affected by jet Reynolds number and the transient local 
Nusselt number at x/W=0 increases with increasing jet Reynolds number.  As compared with 
the transient local Nusselt number at x/W=0 for confined smooth surface with slot jet 
impingement, the transient heat transfer enhancement for confined extended surface with slot 
jet impingement at t = 1min, 3min and 5min are 241.31%, 147.12% and 146.76%, respectively 
 
 
t (min)
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90
N
u m
,o
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000
Slot Jet Impinging onto Confined Heated Surfaces
H/W=5, ReD=961~972, x/W=0
377365
412855
472646
558437
629394
E.S. (Hes/W=0.90) Smooth Surfaces
Nums,oGrs
303.95
303.07
306.95
304.58
305.79
Nums,oSymbol Grs Symbol
370024
444043
516458
592034
652603 139.64
136.43
135.85
136.40
133.29
 
Fig.6 Effect of Grs on Transient Nusselt Number at x/W=0. 
 
 17
2)
W
x
b(
oms,
ms e= 
Nu
Nu                               (13) 
 
where 001.00.0024eb D-0.0054Re −= . 
 
t (min)
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90
N
u m
,o
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000
Slot Jet Impinging onto Confined Heated Surfaces
Grs=5.00x10
5~5.67x105, H/W=5, ReD=958~969, x/W=0
Extended Surfaces Smooth Surfaces
Nums,o
437.94
415.78
358.48
303.07
277.89
Nums,oSymbol Symbol
136.430
Hes/W
0.74
0.90
1.36
2.40
3.40
Hes/W
 
 
Fig.8 Effect of Hes/W Ratio on Transient Nusselt Number at x/W=0. 
 
 19
convection of slot jet impingement, jsNu , in the following form: 
 
n
ns
n
js
n
ms NuNuNu +=                           (15) 
 
where 
0.25
s
0.46es
)
W
H
1.967(1.502es
ns Gr)
W
H0.947(0.691e)
W
H(11 Nu
0.375
⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡ ++
⎪⎭
⎪⎬
⎫
⎪⎩
⎪⎨
⎧
⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡ +−= −   (16) 
 
0.5
D
0.517es2W
H
1.908-
js Re)
W
H
1.33()4.437e-
W
H( 0.00269-1 4.092 Nu
es
⎥⎥
⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢⎢
⎢
⎣
⎡
+=
     (17) 
 
In Eq.(15), msNu  which includes the effects of both slot jet impingement and buoyancy 
is determined for confined extended surface with slot jet impingement cases in the present 
study.  Two limiting conditions (i.e., purely natural convection and purely forced convection 
of slot jet impingement) and curve fitting of the experimental data by a least square method, a 
new composite correlation of steady-state average Nusselt number for mixed convection due to 
slot jet impingement and buoyancy can by proposed as 
 
2.05
ns
5
jsms )NuNu( Nu +=                        (18) 
 
Accordingly, the present work also proposes a new composite correlation of steady-state 
average Nusselt number for mixed convection due to a heated smooth surface with slot jet 
impingement and buoyancy in similar form as follows:  
 
2.05
ns
5
jsms )NuNu( Nu +=                       (19) 
 
where 
0.5
D
2
js Re 4.437)-
W
H0.00269(-1 092.4 Nu ⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡=             (20) 
 
0.25
s
)
W
H
1.967(-
ns Gr e-1 691.0 Nu
0.375
⎥⎥⎦
⎤
⎢⎢⎣
⎡
=                   (21) 
 
where Grs is the Grashof Number, 2
3 /νβ HsLTgΔ . 
 
 
 
 
 21
t (min)
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000
Slot Jet Impinging onto Confined Heated Surfaces
Grs=5.23x10
5~5.91x105, ReD=961~979
E.S. (Hes/W=0.90) Smooth Surfaces
276.19
296.04
298.64
304.74
311.01
Symbol Symbol
mNu
msNu
1
3
5
7
10 123.40
126.16
128.80
132.30
123.76
H/W msNu
1
3
5
7
10
H/W
 
 
Fig. 11  Effect of H/W Ratio on Transient Average Nusselt Number. 
 
 
 
The comparisons of the predictions evaluated by Eq.(18) with the experimental data are 
made and shown in Fig.14.  The experimental data of confined smooth surface with slot jet 
impingement is also plotted in the figure for comparisons.  The maximum deviation and 
average deviation of the predictions by Eq.(18) from the steady-state experimental data are 
7.46% and 2.87%, respectively.  The result is similar with that of confined smooth surface 
with slot jet impingement. 
 
 23
t (min)
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000
Slot Jet Impinging onto Confined Heated Surfaces
Grs=5.03x10
5~1.84x106, H/W=5
E.S. (Hes/W=0.90) Smooth Surfaces
334.07
298.64
221.78
122.33
Symbol Symbol
182
562
961
1383
ReD ReD
181
544
960
1362 151.02
128.80
93.98
54.74
msNu msNu
98.95
77.6363
116
65
122 46.42
34.32
mNu
 
  
Fig.13  Effect of Jet Reynolds Number on Transient Average Nusselt Number. 
 
 
5. CONCLUDING REMARKS 
 
The conclusions drawn from the results and discussion are presented below|: 
(1) The effects of ReD and Hes/W on transient-/steady-state local dimensionless temperature 
distributions are more significant as compared with H/W and Grs.  As ReD increases, the 
temperature distribution will become more non-uniform. 
(2) The major roles for dominating the transient thermal behavior are played by the thermal 
capacity of the test surface and the convective heat dissipation in the beginning of 
power-on transient period for confined smooth or extended surface.  Finally, the 
convective heat dissipation becomes the solely dominating term at the end of power-on 
transient period. 
 25
Grs/ReD
2
0.1 1 10 100 1000 10000 100000
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Slot Jet Impinging onto Confined Heated Surfaces
H/W=5
Eq. (15)
Eq. (16)
Eq. (17)
Eq. (19)
Extended Surfaces Smooth Surfaces
0.74
0.90
1.36
2.40
3.40
Hes/WSymbol Hes/WSymbol
0
0.5
D
ms
Re
Nu
 
 
 
 
Fig.14. Composite Correlation of Steady-state Average Nusselt Number for Confined 
      Extended Surface with Slot Jet Impingement. 
 
6. REFERENCES 
 
[1] Kiper, A., 1984, "Impinging Water Jet Cooling of VLSI Circuits," Int. Comm. Heat Transfer, 
Vol.11, pp.517-526. 
[2] Martin, H., 1977, "Heat and Mass Transfer between Impinging Gas Jet and Solid Surface," 
In Advances in Heat Transfer, Vol.13, ed. by Hartnett, J. P., and Irvine, Jr., T. F., Academic 
Press Inc., New York, pp.1-60. 
[3] Narayanan, V., Seyed-Yagoobi, J. and Page, R. H., 2004, "An Experimental Study of Fluid 
Mechanics Heat Transfer in An Impingement Slot Jet Flow," Int. J. Heat Mass Transfer, Vol.47, 
pp.1827-1845. 
[4] Hung, Y. H., and Perng, S. W., 1988, “An Experimental Technique for Measuring Transient 
 27
7. Fang, C. J., Lee, C. Y., Peng, C. H., Lin, T. W., and Hung, Y. H.*, 2007, “Fluid Flow 
Behavior for a Confined Rotating MCM Disk with Round Jet Array Impingement,” 
InterPACK 2007, Vancouver, Canada, July 8-12. (EI) 
8. Lee, C. Y., Fang, C. J., Peng, C. H., Lin, T. W., and Hung, Y. H.*, 2007, “Heat Transfer 
Behavior for a Confined Rotating MCM Disk with Round Jet Array Impingement,” 
InterPACK 2007, Vancouver, Canada, July 8-12. (EI) 
9. Fang, C. J., Lee, C. Y., Peng, C. H., and Hung, Y. H.*, 2007, “Fluid Flow Characteristics of 
Confined Round Jet Array Impinging onto a Stationary Multichip Module Disk,” 18th 
International Symposium on Transport Phenomena (ISTP-18), Daejeon, Korea, August 
27-30. 
10. Lee, C. Y., Fang, C. J., Peng, C. H., and Hung, Y. H.*, 2007, “Thermal Characteristics for a 
Stationary Multichip Module Disk with Confined Air Jet Array Impingement,”18th 
International Symposium on Transport Phenomena (ISTP-18), Daejeon, Korea, August 
27-30. 
 
* Corresponding Author 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 29
the steady-state Grashof number (Grs), ratio of jet separation distance 
to nozzle width (H/W), ratio of extended surface height to nozzle 
width (Hes/W) and jet Reynolds number (ReD).  Their effects on fluid 
flow and heat transfer characteristics in natural convection and slot jet 
impingement have been systematically explored.  For confined 
extended surfaces with natural convection cooling, the 
transient-/steady-state local and average heat transfer characteristics 
have been studied.  Beside, a statistical sensitivity analysis of 
ANOVA F-test is also employed to investigate the parametric 
sensitivity on the thermal characteristics.  Furthermore, new 
correlations of steady-state average Nusselt number in terms of 
relevant influencing parameters for confined extended surfaces have 
been presented.  For confined extended surfaces with slot jet 
impingement, in the hydrodynamic aspect, the fluid flow 
characteristics including the local mean streamwise velocity 
distribution, local turbulence intensity distribution, mean streamwise 
velocity decay and turbulence intensities along jet centerline have 
been investigated.  In the heat transfer aspect for confined extended 
surfaces with slot jet impingement, the transient-/steady-state local 
and average heat transfer characteristics are studied.  A statistical 
sensitivity analysis of ANOVA F-test is also employed to investigate 
the parametric sensitivity on the thermal characteristics.  Finally, a 
new composite correlation of steady-state average Nusselt number for 
mixed convection from confined extended surfaces due to slot jet 
impingement and buoyancy has been presented. 
 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
可利用之產業：電子構裝散熱相關產業。 
 
可開發之產品：噴流衝擊冷卻裝置。 
 
技術特點 
 
 
各類型噴流衝擊冷卻實驗技術研發。 
推廣及運用 
的價值 
在此研究發展完成之自然冷卻及噴流衝擊冷卻技術將可有效地提
升電子相關產業構裝散熱設計之技術與能力。 
 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位 
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。  
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。  
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 
 
 
 
 
 31
出國參加 2007 年國際電子構裝會議 
(InterPACK 2007)報告 
洪英輝 
國立清華大學動力機械工程學系 
電話: (03) 5742915 
傳真: (03) 5722840 
 
敝人很榮幸地經由國科會補助赴加拿大溫哥華參加 2007 年國際電子構裝會議
(InterPACK 2007)。此次開會地點在加拿大溫哥華 Westin Bayshore Resort and Marina，而
會期為 7 月 08 日至 7 月 12 日，此次會議是由美國機械工程師學會(ASME)與日本機械工
程師學會(JSME)合辦。此會議之主要目標乃在促進國際上有關微電子、光電、微奈米機
電(MEMS/NEMS)構裝科技發展製程與應用之研究與工程實務知識與經驗交流。在此次會
議中總共有 12 個技術群(Technical Tracks: Advanced Packaging, Manufacturing Test, 
Materials and Processes, MEMS and MEMS Packaging, Modeling and Simulation, 
Nanotechnology and NEMS, Reliability, Thermal Management, Education, Electrical Issues in 
Packaging, Photonics and Electro-Optics, and Technology Sectors)，總共 67 個技術研討分組
(Advanced Wafer Level Packing, Advanced Characterization Methodologies, Thermal 
Management for Advanced Packaging, Polymers for Advanced Packaging, Modeling and 
Analysis for Advanced Packaging, Bio/Organic Devices and Packaging, Characterization and 
Reliability, MEMS Packaging, Thermal Phenomena in MEMS, Mechanical Effects in MEMS, 
MEMS Processing and Fabrication, Models for Thermomechanical Reliability, Interconnect 
Reliability Models, Device Level Thermal Models, Package Level Thermal Models, Heat Sinks, 
Fans, Plates and Fins, Investigation of Heat Transfer Mechanisms I, Investigation of Heat 
Transfer Mechanisms II, Novel/Alternative Electronics Cooling Concepts and Technologies, 
Micro/Nano-scale Heat Transfer in Electronics Equipment I, Thermal 
Modeling/Characterization of Electronic Systems I, Micro/Nano-Scale Heat Transfer in 
Electronic Equipment II, Thermal Modeling/Characterization of Electronic Systems II, Thermal 
Interface Materials and Spreaders, Heat Sink Modeling and Characterization I, Heat 
Pipe/Thermosyphons for Electronics Cooling I, Data Center Thermal Management I, Heat Sink 
Modeling and Characterization II, Heat Pipe/Thermosyphons for Electronic Cooling II, Data 
Center Thermal Management II, Data Center Thermal Management III, Liquid Cooling of 
Electronic Systems, Low Temperature Refrigeration Cooling Technologies, Solid State Power 
Generation and Cooling for Electronic Packaging and Systems I, Two-Phase Heat Transfer in 
Electronics Cooling I, Data Center Thermal Management IV, Cooling Technologies for High 
Heat Flux Applications, Solid State Power Generation and Cooling for Electronic Packaging 
 33
Cooling for Electronic Packaging and Systems I) (2) IPACK2007-33281 A Semi-Empirically 
Thermal Optimization for Heat Sink/TEC Assemblies with Various External Thermal 
Resistances (WEDNESDAY 07/11 2:00 – 3:30am; TM19 Solid State Power Generation and 
Cooling for Electronic Packaging and Systems III) (3) IPACK2007-33277 Heat Transfer 
Characteristics for a Confined Rotating MCM Disk with Round Jet Array Impingement 
(THURSDAY 07/12 9:00 - 10:30am; TM20 Convection Cooling in Electronic Equipment) 及 
(4) IPACK2007-33278 Fluid Flow Behavior for a Confined Rotating MCM Disk with Round 
Jet Array Impingement (THURSDAY 07/12 9:00 - 10:30am; TM20 Convection Cooling in 
Electronic Equipment)。此次兩位博士班學生上台用英文發表論文的表現皆可圈可點，是
值得讚賞的。另外，在發表論文與參與會議期間，多次與許多位國際著名的學者專家(如
日本的 Professors W. Nakayama and M. Ishizuka，美國的 Professors A. Bar-Cohen，C. 
Amon，S. C. Yao，新加坡的 A. O. Tay 及 IBM 的 Dr. Roger Schmidt 等人)交換各國在電子
構裝技術之研究心得，收穫非常多。 
敝人是此次會議籌備十五位國際連絡委員會委員之一，此委員會成員如下：Prof. 
Carlos Altemani (Brazil), Prof. Adam Skorek (Canada), Prof. Yuqin Gu (China), Prof. Ricky S. 
W. Lee (China), Dr. Bernard Courtois (France), Dr. Rolf Aschenbrenner (Germany), Prof. 
Soon-Bok Lee (Korea), Prof. Kyung W. Paik (Korea), Prof. Andrew A. O. Tay (Singapore), 
Prof. John Pang (Singapore), Prof. Andrew Y. H. Hung (Taiwan), Dr. David Whalley (United 
Kingdom), Dr. Johan Liu (Sweden), Dr. Gordana Popovic (Austria), and Dr. Josef Brossner 
(Austria) 。在會議中，敝人亦獲下次 InterPACK’09 大會主席邀請擔任 InterPACK’2009 
Conference 的國際籌備與連絡委員；而且將負責數個論文發表 Sessions 的規劃、邀稿、審
稿、與發表事宜。上述總總皆是對敝人在過去二十多年來在『電子構裝技術』研究上之
肯定，敝人深感無上之光榮，必當會積極且全力以赴地參與此相當重要的國際會議與委
員會；同時，在下次 InterPACK’09 會議時儘可能地邀請國內從事電子構裝技術研發的學
者專家參加，以提昇國內在此方面研發水準與國際上之聲望。 
此次整整五天的會議中，敝人除了全程參加許多場相關論文研討專題討論與專題演
講外, 還與許多中外的學者碰面且交換研究資料。有關研究資料的收集，敝人帶回了包括
此次會議所有論文及短期課程之光碟各壹片，將可供作國內相關同好研究及教學上之寶
貴參考。 
總之，敝人能夠參加此次國際電子構裝會議之最大收穫，乃是能與來自世界各地的
學者專家相聚在一起彼此交換研究心得；同時也瞭解了目前電子構裝技術各相關領域的
發展，進而擴展出自己的研究新視野及新觀念了。另外值得一提的，乃是在這次的會議
裡，國內學術界與產業界研發人員、學者及研究生參加人數十多人，較上次 InterPACK’05
參與人數多些。近年來喜見國內研究生參加人數踴躍 (清華大學動機系即有三位研究生參
加發表論文)，此現象反應出：學界年輕學子參加國際研討會慾望增加，希望能吸收難得
的國際研討會經驗。當然，敝人還是再次呼籲國內主要補助單位如國科會能再多增加支
持補助國內擬與會的學者專家(尤其是研究生)，讓更多國內產官學界優秀的研發專家學者
 1
ABSTRACT 
A series of experimental investigations on the studies 
related to fluid flow characteristics of a confined rotating 
Multi-Chip Module (MCM) disk with round air jet array 
impingement have been performed.  The relevant parameters 
influencing fluid flow characteristics include the ratio of jet 
separation distance to nozzle diameter (H/d), jet Reynolds 
number (Rej) and rotational Reynolds number (Rer).  The 
parametric ranges are Rej = 712 - 4087, Rer = 0 - 2906, H/d = 
0.83-14.4 and Z/d = 1-7.  The potential core lengths of all the 
nozzle jets increases with increasing jet Reynolds number or 
H/d ratio and decreases with increasing rotational Reynolds 
number.  New correlations of the ratio of potential core 
length to nozzle diameter at various nozzle jets in terms of 
relevant influencing parameters are proposed.   Furthermore, 
the strengths on both streamwise velocity and turbulence 
intensity increase with increasing Z/d ratio.  The turbulence 
intensity for the cases of jet array impingement growing up 
along the axial directions are significantly faster than the cases 
of single round jet impingement.  The jet array impingement 
has a higher momentum flux in the flow interaction region 
between two adjacent nozzles; accordingly, it can achieve a 
more uniform thermal performance as compared with the 
cases of single round jet impingement.  Near-surface fluid 
flow behavior including the streamwise velocity and 
turbulence intensity distributions can be employed to interpret 
the heat transfer characteristics for jet array impingement. 
 
Keywords: Round Jet Array Impingement, MCM Disk, Ratio 
of Jet Separation Distane to Nozzle Diameter, Jet Reynolds 
Number, Rotational Reynolds Number, Turbulence Intensity, 
Streamwise Velocity, Potential Core Length. 
ensity, Streamwise Velocity, Potential Core Length. 
 
NOMENCLATURE 
 
A Area of Disk (m2) 
D Diameter of the Disk (m) 
DH Hydraulic Diameter of Simulated Chips (m),2lw/(l+W) 
d Inside Diameter of Nozzle (m) 
H Separation Distance Between Nozzle and Disk (m) 
Lpc  Potential Core Length 
N Rotational Speed of the Disk (rpm), Nozzle Number 
Rej Jet Reynolds Number 
Rer Rotational Reynolds Number,(πND2/120υ)  
r  Radial Direction Length (m) 
Tu Turbulence Intensity 
jV  Mean Streamwise Velocity at Nozzle Exit (m/s) 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Impinging fluid jets are frequently used for intensive 
heating or cooling in various technological applications.  
However, achieving optimum heat transfer for a specific 
purpose is still a challenge because of a large number of 
parameters involved: nozzle shapes, mutual positions and 
configuration, their distance from the impingement wall, jet 
spacing, inclination and configuration of the impingement 
wall, the initial flow field and turbulence intensity in the jet, 
the surrounding near field boundary conditions, and so on.  
In general, multiple impinging jets are used to obtain an 
enhanced heat and mass transfer on a target surface.  It is 
because of this reason impinging jets have been widely used in 
many industrial applications such as cooling of hot steel plates, 
tempering of glass plate, annealing of metal sheets, drying of 
papers and films, deicing of aircraft systems, gas turbine blade 
cooling.  Recently, jet impingement cooling has been applied 
to electronic devices in order to meet the demand of 
compactness and high power consumption. 
With advances in very large scale integration, circuit 
heat dissipation has become an increasingly important 
consideration in the design and packaging of both single chip 
and multi-chip module (MCM).  One option for dissipating 
large chip heat fluxes involves the uses of jet impingement.  
As to the use of impinging jet for component cooling in 
modern engineering devices is well-established practice.  The 
principal virtues of this method of cooling are the high heat 
transfer rates attainable relative to non-impinging flows.  In 
recent years, most of the leading manufacturers of computers 
and microelectronics have begun to develop the technology 
and packaging strategies needed to insert multichip modules 
Proceedings of InterPACK’07
         International Electronic Packaging Technical Conference and Exhibition 
July 8-12, 2007, Vancouver, B.C, CANADA
 
 
           IPACK2007-33278 
 
Fluid Flow Behavior for a Confined Rotating MCM Disk 
with Round Jet Array Impingement 
 
C.J. Fang, C. Y. Lee, C. H. Peng, T. W. Lin and Y. H. Hung 
Department of Power Mechanical Engineering 
National Tsing Hua University 
Hsinchu 30013, Taiwan 
Email: yhhung@pme.nthu.edu.tw 
Copyright ©2007 by ASME
 3
(B) MCM Target Block.  The air jet generated from the 
air jet chamber impinges normally onto the center of a heated 
MCM target block.  A cylindrical heated target block of 80 
mm diameter is positioned under the bottom surface of the air 
chamber.  The schematic of the components of this heated 
MCM target block is shown in Fig.3.  The MCM test block 
has a diameter of 80 mm and 85 mm thick.  The block is 
composed of three layers.  The top layer is the simulated 
MCM, which is made by a 0.76 mm thick alumina plate 
(Al2O3) with a diameter of 78 mm.  A 3×5 array of simulated 
heating chips were flush printed on the alumina surface, and 
the chip size is 6 mm×5 mm.  The range of voltages, which 
can be applied to each simulated chip having a 299-301Ω 
resistance, is 0-140V.  The chip heat flux can be controlled 
with changing the voltage applied on the simulated chip.  For 
the test plate, there are 17 calibrated T-type thermocouples, 
which have the diameter of 0.08 mm, on the MCM surface 
installed for measuring the local chip temperatures of the 
MCM disk surface.   
Besides, the middle layer is a 2 cm thick balsa slab, 
which is epoxied on the backside of the alumina plate to 
inhibit conductive heat losses from the chips.  At the 
backside of the balsa slab, there has one thermocouple 
installed to evaluate the lateral conductive heat losses.  In the 
lateral bakelite, there is also a thermocouple installed to 
evaluated the conductive heat loss.  The bottom layer (i.e. the 
third layer), epoxied on the backside of balsa slab, is a 2 cm 
thick balsa slab.  Fine holes are drilled through the balsa 
wood and the bakelite to allow the passage of chip leads and 
thermocouples.  There are a total of 19 calibrated 
thermocouples installed for local chip temperature 
measurements of the test block in the present experiments. 
In addition, the MCM test target block is placed on a 
programmable motor-driven three-dimensional (3-D) 
precision stage controller.  The 3-D stage controller is used 
to precisely adjust the position of the test target surface and 
the jet separation distance between nozzle exit (or 
confinement plate) and test target surface.  The minimum 
movement for position control of the test target surface with 
this system is estimated to be 10 µm.  Moreover, the 
horizontal of the test target surface is measured with a four-
point alignment level (Model: CIC-39381, accuracy ±0.2°) 
and adjusted by four screw-driven legs of a flat table, which 
supports the 3-D stage controller. 
 
Fig.2  Schematic of Confined Round Jet Array Chamber and 
Nozzle 
Rotating Facility.  The heated MCM disk assembly can 
be directly mounted on the spindle of the platform to rotate 
freely.  The spindle is driven by an 0.5 HP d.c. motor.   
Furthermore, the heated disk assembly is able to move in 
vertical direction to control the separation distance driven by a 
step motor.  The body of platform is a 3-level structure 
supported by four posts standing at its four corners.  The 
upper and lower levels are end plates to hold the four posts in 
position.  The altitude of the center level where a rotational 
mandrel is attached to is controllable to give the desired 
position of the rotational disk.   Limiting switches are 
equipped to protect the movement of the center level from 
collision with other components.   
There is a 20-channel slip ring located at the lower end of 
the rotational mandrel to transfer the signal from 
thermocouples to the data logger.  All the thermocouples 
from the test block through the rotational mandrel are 
connected to the rotational side of slip ring, which is rotating 
with the rotational mandrel.  The respective 20 channels on 
the other end, the stationary side of slip ring, is fixed to the 
center level of the platform and connected to the Fluke 
NetDAQ 2640A data logger.  The rotation velocity can be 
controlled by the rotation controller by the signal feed back of 
a tachometer.  In order to reduce the interference of signals, 
the power lines for heating chips, designed to be separated 
from the thermocouples, are connected to two copper rings, 
which are electrically isolated each other, on the rotating 
mandrel.  The power lines from power supply are connected 
to two metallic pins, which are located on the center level of 
rotating platform.  Springs are used to give a constant 
pressure to those pings such that a firm contact to two copper 
rings can be obtained in rotation.  Its contact resistance is 
measured to be less than 0.1Ω during rotation. 
 
 
  Fig.3 Schematic of Test Block and Its Components 
 
Data Reduction 
The jet Reynolds number is determined by the air flow 
rate which is controlled and measured by two Hasting mass 
flow controllers.  To obtain an accurate flow rate, the 
measured flow rate should be compensated due to the 
temperature effect with a factor of 0.2%/ ° C, and was 
Copyright ©2007 by ASME
 5
can be classified into two regimes such as “initially 
transitional flow regime” and “initially turbulent flow 
regime.”  It is different from that for single round jet 
impingement cases, which has three flow regimes.  No 
“initially laminar flow regime” is found in the range of 712 ≤ 
Rej ≤ 4087 studied for jet array impingement cases. 
The mutual effect of rotational Reynolds number and 
H/d ratio on jet array streamwise velocity distribution are 
more significant for a low jet Reynolds numbers and 
insignificant at high Reynolds numbers; all the distributions 
are close to the turbulent 1/7 power-law profile, it is in an 
initially turbulent flow regime. 
The present experimental data for a confined rotating 
MCM disk with single round jet impingement is also plotted 
in the figure for comparisons.  As compared with the 
streamwise velocity distribution of a confined rotating MCM 
disk with single round jet impingement, the results show that 
there is a higher streamwise velocity distribution will occur at 
two adjacent jets for jet array impingement cases.  This is 
because for jet array impingement has a higher momentum 
flux at nozzle exits in the region near the nozzle center due to 
the flow interaction between two adjacent jets to make a 
concentrated effect on the streamwise velocity distribution.  
Besides, the H/d ratio effect on the streamwise velocity 
distribution at various nozzle exits for jet array impingement 
is more significant than the single round jet impingement at 
the center location of the interaction region between two 
adjacent nozzles. 
Turbulence Intensity Distribution.  From Fig.5, the 
turbulence intensities of the jets are between 5%-15% in the 
jets region at nozzle exits when Rej = 712.  This manifests 
that the interaction of jet themselves and surrounding ambient 
air is significant at a low jet Reynolds number in the jet region 
at nozzle exits.  Accordingly, the jet at this low jet Reynolds 
number is not in an initially laminar flow regime, it can be 
regarded as in an initially transitional flow regime.   
Therefore, the inference of an initially transitional flow 
regime at this small jet Reynolds number can be ensured again 
from the turbulence intensity aspect.  However, the jet array 
turbulence intensities are sharply increased between two ad-
jacent jet nozzle regions in the present study.  The result 
manifests that there is a larger interaction between two ad-
jacent jets in the mixing layer at different jet Reynolds 
numbers and the jet turbulence intensities will increase with 
increasing jet Reynolds number.  This high interaction is due 
to the shear generated by the velocity gradients of the jet, and 
this shear can then cause the jet to spread more broadly. 
Furthermore, the turbulence intensity increases with 
increasing rotational Reynolds number because the higher 
velocity gradient occurred at nozzle exits enhances the shear 
force in the mixing layer.  As compared with the turbulence 
intensity distribution of a confined rotating MCM disk with 
single round jet impingement, there is a maximum turbulence 
intensity occurs at nozzle exits in the region nearby the center 
location of the interaction region between two adjacent 
nozzles for jet array impingement, but for single round jet 
impingement cases the maximum turbulence intensity occurs 
near the location of r/d =1.  Besides, as the H/d ratio 
increases, the turbulence intensity for both single round jet and 
jet array impingement onto a rotating MCM disk cases will 
increase because the interaction between the jet and the 
ambient air in the mixing layer becomes stronger. 
Flow Characteristics along Jet Centerlines 
 Streamwise Velocity Decay along Jet Centerline.  
The dimensionless centerline velocity decay along jet 
centerline for the cases of Rer =1582 under different jet 
Reynolds numbers at Z/d = 1 to 7 for confined round jet array 
impingement at the central nozzle, i.e., N0, is shown in Fig.6.  
The results manifest that the jet centerline velocities for jet 
array impinging onto a rotating MCM disk under various jet 
Reynolds numbers are kept constant and persisted to the 
distance near four times of nozzle diameter measured from 
nozzle exit, and then decay sharply before Z/d=4.  Generally, 
the distance measured from nozzle exit to a location where a 
sharp decay of centerline velocity exists can be regarded as the 
potential core length.  To make a quantitative description of 
the potential core length, the definition of potential core length 
proposed by Chou and Hung [10] is used in the present study.  
The region of nozzle exit to a location where the kinetic 
energy of jet flow deviates by 5% from that at nozzle exit is 
defined as the potential core length.  However, the potential 
core lengths for the cases of a confined rotating MCM disk 
with round jet array impingement at various nozzle locations 
(i.e., N0, N1, N2, N3) are between 3.42 – 4.83 times the nozzle 
diameter, but for single round jet impingement is between 
3.74 – 4.53 times the nozzle diameter in the ranges of 4.5 ≤ 
H/d ≤ 14.4, 712 ≤ Rej ≤ 4087 and 0 ≤ Rer ≤ 2906.
 
 
Fig.5 Turbulence Intensity Distribution at Z/d =1 for Cases of 
H/d = 7.62, Rer = 1582 under Different Jet Reynolds 
Numbers Along the Radial Direction at θ=90o 
 
As shown in Fig.7, the potential core lengths of all the 
nozzle jets for a confined rotating MCM disk with round jet 
array impingement increase with increasing jet Reynolds 
number. Besides the potential core lengths increase with 
increasing H/d ratio and decrease with increasing rotational 
Reynolds number; and the effect of jet Reynolds number is 
more significant than that of rotational Reynolds number or 
H/d ratio.  The disk rotation effect on the potential core 
length at nozzle N0 (i.e., r/d=0) for confined round jet array 
impingement cases and confined single round jet impingement 
cases is not significant.  The potential core length of the 
Copyright ©2007 by ASME
 7
As compared with the streamwise velocity distribution 
along radial directions of θ = 0o and 90o, the results reveal that 
the strength of the flow interaction between two adjacent jets 
increases with decreasing nozzle pitch or increasing jet 
Reynolds number.  Additionally, it is worth pointing out that 
the streamwise velocity distribution for jet array impingement 
decays more quickly at the outmost nozzle exit region i.e., N2 
and N3, along radial direction of θ = 0o and 90o when after the 
location of r/d = 3.5 and r/d= 4.5, respectively.  Since a very 
high velocity gradient occurred at this outmost nozzle region 
enhances the shear force in the mixing layer; and then this 
high shear force may entrain more ambient air to jet flow.  
The higher shear force penetrate into jet center will cause the 
jet to decay more quickly. 
 
Fig.8 Turbulence Intensity Evolution Along Jet Centerline for 
Cases of H/d = 7.62, Rej = 4087 under Different 
Rotational Reynolds Numbers 
 
 
Fig.9 Dimensionless Velocity Distribution at Z/d =1-7 for 
Cases of H/d = 7.62, Rej = 4087 and Rer = 1582 Along 
the Radial Direction at θ = 90o 
 
Turbulence Intensity Distribution.  As shown in 
Fig.10, the effect of jet Reynolds number on turbulence 
intensity distributions at Z/d = 1 to 7 along radial directions of 
θ = 90o for confined round jet array impingement at various 
nozzle exits is explored.  The turbulence intensity 
distributions at various nozzle exits (i.e., N0, N1, N2, N3) along 
radial directions of θ = 0o and 90o have similar turbulence 
intensity distribution profile when under the same jet 
Reynolds number.  As compared with the turbulence 
intensity distribution along radial directions of θ = 0o and 90o, 
the strength of the turbulence intensity between two adjacent 
jets decreases with decreasing nozzle pitch or jet Reynolds 
number.  This flow interaction between two adjacent jets 
would weaken the jet strength. 
 Furthermore, the strengths on both streamwise velocity 
and turbulence intensity for the cases of a confined rotating 
MCM disk with round jet array impingement increase with 
increasing Z/d ratio.  The flow interaction on both 
streamwise velocity and turbulence intensity distributions 
along the axial direction for adjacent jets becomes more 
significant when the jet flow is more close to the MCM disk 
surface, but no such an interaction effect existed for the cases 
of single round jet impingement.   The streamwise velocity 
for the cases of single round jet impingement decreases with 
increasing Z/d ratio.  The turbulence intensity for the cases of 
jet array impingement growing up along the axial directions 
are significantly faster than the cases of single round jet 
impingement.  Finally, the higher streamwise velocity and 
turbulence intensity distributions occur at the center location 
between two adjacent jets in the near-surface region of the 
MCM disk.  The jet array impingement has a higher 
momentum flux in the flow interaction region between two 
adjacent nozzles; and it can achieve a more uniform thermal 
performance as compared with the cases of single round jet 
impingement.  Near-surface fluid flow behavior including the 
streamwise velocity and turbulence intensity distributions can 
be employed to interpret the heat transfer characteristics for jet 
array impingement. 
 
Fig.10 Turbulence Intensity Distribution at Z/d =1-7 for Cases 
of H/d = 7.62, Rej =712, 4087, Rer = 1582 Along the 
Radial Direction at θ = 90o  
Copyright ©2007 by ASME
Proceedings of InterPACK’07
         International Electronic Packaging Technical Conference and Exhibition 
July 8-12, 2007, Vancouver, B.C, CANADA
 
IPACK2007-33277 
 
 
Heat Transfer Characteristics for a Confined Rotating MCM Disk 
with Round Jet Array Impingement 
 
C. Y. Lee, C.J. Fang, C. H. Peng, T. W. Lin and Y. H.Hung  
Department of Power Mechanical Engineering 
National Tsing Hua University 
Hsinchu 30013, Taiwan 
Email: yhhung@pme.nthu.edu.tw 
ABSTRACT 
 
An effective method of design of experiments combined 
with Central Composite Design for exploring the heat transfer 
characteristics for a confined rotating Multi-Chip Module 
(MCM) disk with round jet array impingement has been 
successfully developed.  The relevant parameters influencing 
heat transfer performance include the steady-state Grashof 
number (Grs), ratio of jet separation distance to nozzle 
diameter (H/d), jet Reynolds number (Rej) and rotational 
Reynolds number (Rer).  Their effects on heat transfer 
characteristics have been systematically explored. An 
axisymmetrical temperature distribution is ensured for various 
Grs, Rej, Rer and H/d ratios.  As compared with the mutual 
effects of jet array impingement and disk rotation cause a 
more non-uniform distribution of chip temperatures.  For 
heat transfer behavior, a new correlation of stagnation Nusselt 
number for jet array impingement at r/R=0 in terms of Rej and 
H/d is presented.  As compared with the experimental steady-
state data of single round jet impingement, the average heat 
transfer enhancement at stagnation point r/R = 0 of jet array 
impingement is 607%.  For the rotating MCM disk cases, the 
highest chip heat transfer occurs at the MCM disk rim, and 
decreases sharply along the distance from the surface edge 
toward the surface center. 
 
Keywords: Round Jet Array Impingement, MCM Disk, 
Grashof Number, Ratio of Jet Separation Distane to Nozzle 
Diameter, Jet Reynolds Number, Rotational Reynolds Number, 
Nusselt Number. 
 
NOMENCLATURE 
 
A Area of MCM Disk (m2) 
D Diameter of MCM Disk (m) 
DH Hydraulic Diameter of Simulated Chips (m),2lw/(l+W) 
d Nozzle Diameter (m) 
H Separation Distance Between Nozzle and Disk (m) 
h Heat Transfer Coefficient, W/m2 oC 
Nu Nusselt Number 
N Rotational Speed of the Disk (rpm), Nozzle Number 
n Number of nozzles 
Qm Mass Flow Rare 
q Heat Flux 
Rej Jet Reynolds Number 
Rer Rotational Reynolds Number,(πND2/120υ)  
r  Distance in Radial Direction (m) 
jV  Mean Streamwise Velocity at Nozzle Exit (m/s) 
 
Subscripts 
i Internal Energy Change 
j Index of Nozzle Number 
m Mixed Convection 
r Radiative 
s Steady state 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Cooling, heating and drying processes involving 
impinging jets have been extensively studied.  The well 
known technique of impinging jets has been used in many 
applications such as electronics cooling, turbine cooling, 
cooling of Computer-Aided Tomography (CAT) scanners, 
drying of textile, annealing of metal and plastics, and 
tempering of glass.  Recently, the demand for compactness 
and higher operational speeds leads to high power density in 
electronic packages.  The thermal management of compact 
electronics packages, a formidable task, is essential for 
reliability and efficiency of operation. Improvement in cooling 
methods is required to avoid unacceptable temperature rise.  
A heat transfer enhancement technique of jet impingement 
with low air velocity, to meet the limitation of the resulting 
force of air jet exerted on the packages, is a promising way to 
achieve higher thermal performance for compact electronics 
packages.  Furthermore, in order to enhance the cooling 
capability of jet impingement with minimal consumption of 
fluid, the rotating target may be introduced. 
A detailed study of heat transfer characteristics of a 
round jet impingement were document by Gardon and 
Conbonpue [1].  In 1977, Martin [2] presented several 
empirical correlations for evaluating heat transfer in jet 
 1 
 Copyright ©2007 by ASME
plenum is made of 5 cm-thick acrylic-plastic material that is 
36cm long and has a chamber diameter of 80 mm.  It is 
designed to provide a controllable and stable air jet array 
impinging the heated target surface.  There is a 4 cm 
diameter momentum dissipation plate to dissipate the 
momentum of the air flow from the air supply system.  A 5 
cm-thick honeycomb is designed to create a uniform air flow 
with low turbulence.  The second part of the air plenum is 
interchangeable for setting various jet configurations.  As 
shown in Fig.2, a confined plate of air jet with 80mm in 
diameter is installed at the bottom of the chamber.  In the 
present study, the jet array impingement has fifteen nozzle jets 
and installed on the confined plate surface.  The diameter of 
the confined round jet array nozzle is all fixed at 6.15 mm, and 
the ratio of nozzle length to diameter (L/d) is designed to be 2 
in the present experiments.  The contact surface between 
these two parts is sealed with O-ring for preventing the 
leakage of the pressurized air in the chamber.  Besides, the 
schematic of all the nozzle locations for the jet array with their 
definitions are shown in Fig. 3.  As displayed in Fig. 3, the 
ratios of nozzle pitch to nozzle diameter along θ = 0o and 90o 
are set as 3 and 2, respectively. 
 
Fig.2  Schematic of Confined Round Jet Array Chamber and 
Nozzle 
 
 
Fig.3  Schematic of Nozzle Location Number with Its 
Definition 
 
MCM Test Block.  The air jet generated from the air 
jet chamber impinges normally onto the center of a heated 
MCM target block.  As shown in Fig.4, the MCM test block 
has a diameter of 80 mm and 85 mm thick.  The block, which 
is confined with a bakelite cylinder, is composed of three 
layers.  The top layer is the simulated MCM, which is made 
by a 0.76 mm thick alumina plate (Al2O3) with a diameter of 
78 mm. A 3×5 array of simulated heating chips were flush 
printed on the alumina surface, and the chip size is 6 mm×5 
mm.  To ensure a uniform heat flux from the chips and disk 
surfaces, the electrical resistances of 15 chips in the present 
study are precisely kept at 300±1Ω by a laser trimmer during 
the manufacturing process of the MCM disk; then, the 
resistances for these 15 chips are connected in parallel and 
inputted with a specified constant voltage by a d.c. power 
supply.  The range of voltages, which can be applied to each 
simulated chip, is 0-140V.  Furthermore, the heat spreading 
effect in the radial direction is reasonable to be neglected 
because of the heated MCM disk with a very small thickness 
of 0.76 mm, so a uniform heat flux from chips can be 
employed in the present study.  For the test plate, there are 17 
calibrated T-type thermocouples, which have the diameter of 
0.08 mm, on the MCM surface installed for measuring the 
local chip temperatures of the MCM disk surface.  Besides, 
the middle layer is a 2 cm thick balsa slab, which is epoxied 
on the backside of the alumina plate to inhibit conductive heat 
losses from the chips.  The bottom layer (i.e. the third layer), 
epoxied on the backside of balsa slab, is a 2 cm thick balsa 
slab.  Fine holes are drilled through the balsa wood and the 
bakelite to allow the passage of chip leads and thermocouples.  
There are a total of 19 calibrated thermocouples installed for 
local chip temperature measurements of the test block in the 
present experiments.  In addition, the MCM test target block 
is placed on a programmable motor-driven three-dimensional 
(3-D) precision stage controller.  The 3-D stage controller is 
used to precisely adjust the position of the test target surface 
and the jet separation distance between nozzle exit and test 
target surface.  The minimum movement for position control 
of the test target surface with this system is estimated to be 10 
µm. 
 
 
Fig.4 Schematic of Test Block and Its Components 
 
Rotating Facility.  The heated MCM disk assembly can 
be directly mounted on the spindle of the platform to rotate 
freely.  Furthermore, the heated disk assembly is able to 
move in vertical direction to control the separation distance 
 3 
 Copyright ©2007 by ASME
exit, respectively.  qc,j is the transient convective heat flux of 
discrete chip j. 
The transient average Nusselt number is evaluated by the 
step similar to transient chip Nusselt number, but with the 
difference that all the parameters are based on the whole 
surface, not on the heated chips.  Therefore, the transient heat 
flux of the MCM test surface is 
 
 
 ikrtc qqqqq −−−=                       (7) 
 
 
where the tq , rq , kq and iq  are the transient total input 
heat, radiative heat loss, conductive heat loss and internal-
energy change per unit area on the basis of the whole surface 
area of the heated MCM disk, A t.  
Thus, the transient average heat transfer coefficient of the 
heated disk can be evaluated as 
 
aw
c
TT
q
  h −=
                                 (8) (8) 
 
and the transient average Nusselt number can be obtained by 
the following formula: 
 
ak
D hNu =                                    (9) (9) 
  
where D is the diameter of the heated MCM disk. 
 
Uncertainty Analysis 
According to the uncertainty analysis recommended by 
Kline and McClintock [22] and Moffat [23], The results of 
uncertainty analysis reveal that the average uncertainties of 
heat flux based on disk surface, Grashof Number, rotational 
Reynolds number, and average Nusselt number are 2.36%, 
5.49%, 5.37%, 5.31%, and 6.12%, respectively, for the cases 
of a confined rotating MCM disk with round jet array 
impingement. 
 
Sensitivity Analysis 
Sensitivity analysis is extensively used in the 
experimental planning stage to help design the apparatus and 
data reduction procedures.  The method is using the 
statistical skill, ANOVA F-test.  According to the results in 
ANOVA F-test, a sensitivity analysis for the design factors is 
performed.  As shown in Fig. 5, the one-factor variation plot 
can also be examined from the established response surface 
model.  With this systematic statistical method, instead of 
one-factor-at-a-time experimentations, a quicker and better 
overall system understanding can be obtained.  For the 
steady-state average Nusselt number, the factor contribution of 
A (Grs), B (H/d), C (Rej) and D (Rer) are 0.46%, 23.33%, 
68.62% and 7.59%, respectively.  The results manifest that 
the steady-state average Nusselt number is more significantly 
affected by Rej than Grs, H/d and Rer in the present parametric 
studies.  From the sensitive analysis, the contributions of the 
present parametric studies are consistent with the present 
experimental results.  For the confined rotating MCM disk 
with round jet array impingement the influential parameters 
are: ratio of jet separation distance to nozzle diameter (H/d), 
jet Reynolds number (Rej) and rotational Reynolds number 
(Rer). 
Besides, it is worth pointing out that as compared with 
the sensitive analysis results of the present jet array 
impingement with single round jet impingement onto a 
rotating MCM disk, the parameter contributions are decreased 
from 86.12% to 68.62% for Rej, but increased from 11.45% to 
23.33% and 2.24% to 7.59% for H/d ratio and Rer, 
respectively. 
 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
 
The main emphasis of the present experimental results 
is on the transient heat transfer characteristics of a stationary 
or rotating MCM disk surface with confined jet array 
impingement.  The schematic of the test section for an 
confined round jet array impinging onto a heated rotating 
MCM disk in the experiments with relevant definitions is 
shown in Fig. 6.  The nozzle diameter is 6.15 mm with a ratio 
of nozzle length to diameter (L/d) being set as 2.  The 
diameter of the heated surface is designed as 78 mm and the 
chip size is 5× 6 mm2.  The control parameters explored in 
the study are the jet Reynolds number (Rej), ratio of jet 
separation distance to nozzle diameter (H/d), the steady-state 
Grashof number (Grs) or chip heat flux (qcs), and the rotational 
Reynolds number (Rer).  The rotational Reynolds number is 
defined as Rer = πND2/120ν, where N and D represent the 
rotational speed (rpm) and diameter of the MCM disk, 
respectively; and ν is the kinematic viscosity of air.  The 
ranges of above-mentioned parameters studied at steady state 
are Grs = 2.32 ×105 - 2.57×106, H/d = 0.83 - 14.4, Rej = 89
 – 
4087 and Rer = 0
 - 2903.  In addition, the jet exit temperature 
Tj is usually chosen as a reference to correct the mean velocity 
and turbulence intensity in the study.  The jet exit 
temperature (Tj) in the experiments is varied between 27
o
C 
and 29
 o
C.  Since the difference of jet exit with jet inlet 
temperatures is measured to be less than 0.3
 o
C, the heated 
effect of jet is insignificant and can be neglected. 
 
 
 
Fig.5  Sensitivity Analysis of Design Variables for a Rotating 
MCM Disk with Confined Round Jet Array 
Impingement 
 5 
 Copyright ©2007 by ASME
0.412H3.005( )0.4 Dr s rNu  = (1.855 Re ) [1  0.675 ]e
−−     (15)                         
 
Figures 9 through 12 illustrate the results of the present 
experimental data and Eq.(13) for various steady-state Grashof 
numbers, jet Reynolds numbers, rotational Reynolds numbers 
and ratios of jet separation distance to nozzle diameter for 
comparisons.  Comparisons between the predicted steady-
state average Nusselt numbers and the present jet array 
experimental data are made with a satisfactory agreement.  
The maximum and average deviations of the predictions by 
Eq.(13) from the present steady-state jet array experimental 
data are 9.36% and 2.47%, respectively.  Finally, as 
compared with the present steady-state experimental data of 
jet array and single round jet impingement, we can find that 
the average heat transfer enhancement for average Nusselt 
number of jet array impingement is 495 % when under the 
same design variables. 
In the present experimental ranges for the confined 
rotating MCM disk with round jet array impingement, the heat 
transfer enhancement ratio
jaR  are increases with increasing 
H/d ratio and the heat transfer enhancement ratio between 4.75 
- 6.16 in the present experimental ranges. The proposed heat 
transfer enhancement correlation can be expressed as follows: 
 
, 2
,
5.025+0.0352(H/d)+0.0016(H/d)ms a ja
ms s
Nu R
Nu
= =   (16) 
 
Fig.9  Effect of Steady-State Grashof Number on Transient 
Average Nusselt Number. 
 
Fig.10  Effect of H/d on Transient Average Nusselt Number. 
 
Fig.11  Effect of Jet Reynolds Number on Transient Average 
Nusselt Number. 
 
Fig.12  Effect of Rotational Reynolds Number on Transient 
Average Nusselt Number. 
 
CONCLUDING REMARKS 
 
The conclusions drawn from the results and discussion 
are presented below: 
(1) For a confined rotating MCM disk with round jet array 
impingement, the contributions of Grs, H/d, Rej and Rer 
on the steady-state average Nusselt number are 0.46%, 
23.33%, 68.62% and 7.59%, respectively. 
(2) A new generalized correlation is proposed to represent 
transient convective heat fluxes for confined rotating 
MCM disks with round jet array impingement. 
(3) An empirical correlation of stagnation Nusselt number 
for jet array impingement at r/R=0 in terms of Rej and 
H/d are presented. Comparisons between the 
predictions and the present experimental jet array data 
are made with a satisfactory agreement.  The 
maximum and average deviations are 8.34% and 3.25%, 
respectively. 
(4) An empirical correlation for the steady-state 
o
 distributions is proposed for a confined 
rotating MCM disk with jet array impingement. The 
maximum and average deviations of the predictions by 
ms,jms, NuNu /
 7 
 Copyright ©2007 by ASME
