 2
Keywords: Adaptive retransmission, Multimedia 
streaming applications, Partial reliability. 
 
二、計畫報告 
如所附之論文。 
三、計畫成果 
本計畫依既定的時程，完成預定的工作
項目。已完成內容為期刊論文一篇(已投出)，
會議論文兩篇(已接受)，條列如下： 
 
已投出期刊論文一篇： 
z Ching-Neng Lai, ”An Adaptive 
Retransmission Method on PR-DCCP to 
Enhance the Performance of Streaming 
Applications,” Journal of Communications 
and Networks (JCN). 
已接受會議論文二篇： 
z Yuan Cheng Lai and Ching-Neng 
Lai ,”Using Sequence Number 
Compensation to design DCCP Partial 
Reliability Extension,” International 
Conference on Information and Electronics 
Engineering (ICIEE 2010), Shanghai, China, 
22-24, June 2010 (EI) 
z Yuan Cheng Lai and Ching-Neng Lai ,”A 
GPS Navigation System with QR Code 
Decoding and Friend Positioning in Smart 
Phones,” International Conference on 
Information and Electronics Engineering 
(ICIEE 2010) , Shanghai, China, 22-24, June 
2010 (EI) 
 4
aborted when the retransmission time exceeds the given 
threshold [5]; (2) fix the lifetime of the packets according to 
the characteristics of the multimedia applications. This 
value is mostly obtained through experiences or experiments 
[6] [7]; (3) dynamically determine the lifetime of packets 
based on the characteristics of the application layer 
protocols. For example, the timeout value of the Session 
Initiation Protocol (SIP) is used to determine whether the 
lost packets need to be retransmitted [8]. 
 The decisions for retransmitting packets in the 
aforementioned methods are made according to a 
predetermined lifetime. As far as the volatile network is 
concerned, the network conditions where the packets 
retransmitted drastically differ from the network conditions 
where the lifetime of the packets was originally determined. 
As such, the predetermined lifetime of the packet could not 
fulfill the requirements at the retransmission. This situation 
leads to the receiver being unable to receive the useful 
packets because (1) the packets ought to be retransmitted 
but were aborted when the lifetime of the packets expired; 
(2) the sender keeps retransmitting the out of date packets 
because the packet’s lifetime is set too long. To overcome 
such a problem, this paper proposes a novel retransmission 
method, termed the Adaptive Retransmission Method 
(ARM). ARM does not require the referring of information 
from the other layer. In ARM the receiver computes a 
sequence number, SN_TH, represents the threshold 
sequence number for the retransmission packets whether 
allowed to be retransmitted. The SN_TH is then transmitted 
to the sender and the sender will retransmit the lost packets 
where the sequence numbers are greater than SN_TH. Thus, 
the effect of retransmission can be maximized. 
This paper is organized as follows. Section II first 
describes some partially reliable transport protocols, 
including PR-SCTP and PR-DCCP. Further, the related 
works with regard to the retransmission methods are 
described in section II. Our proposed approach ARM is 
formally described in section III. Section IV shows some 
simulation results for comparing the performance of ARM 
with other retransmission methods. Finally, the conclusions 
of this paper are given in section V 
 
II. BACKGROUND 
At present, there are two versions of the partially reliable 
transport protocol: One is PR-SCTP which is extended from 
SCTP and another is PR-DCCP which is extended from 
DCCP. Since our proposed method ARM is suitable for 
these partially reliable transport protocols, we first briefly 
introduce the basic behaviors of PR-SCTP and PR-DCCP. 
Then we will explain why PR-DCCP is chosen as the 
transport protocol to verify the performance of ARM. The 
related works on retransmission methods are outlined in the 
last part of this section. 
A. PR-SCTP and PR-DCCP  
PR-SCTP is extended from SCTP to provide a partially 
reliable transport service. In PR-SCTP, the sender 
determines whether to retransmit the lost packets based on 
their lifetime. Before the lifetime limitation, the packet 
regarded as requiring reliable delivery should be 
retransmitted if it is lost. However, when the lifetime of the 
packet expires, the sender stops the retransmission and 
marks the packet as ‘dropped”. In PR-SCTP, the sender 
keeps a cumulative TSN (Transmission Sequence Number), 
and sends this value to the receiver. Upon the reception of 
this value, the receiver considers any missing data with a 
sequence number earlier than or equal to this value as 
received, and thus moves its cumulative acknowledgment 
number forward. When the sender receives a cumulative 
acknowledgement number, the sender will move its 
cumulative TSN forward to the last packet which has been 
acknowledged or is marked as “dropped”. 
PR-DCCP is extended from unreliable DCCP and with 
the retransmission mechanism determined by the sender. 
Developing a partial reliability mechanism for DCCP will 
lead to more difficulties for the following reasons: First, the 
unreliable mechanism of DCCP uses an incremental 
sequence number, and thus using the original sequence 
number for a retransmitted packet is impossible. Second, the 
sender needs to inform the receiver which packets require 
reliable delivery. Therefore, PR-DCCP adopts sequence 
number compensation to solve the first problem. The idea is 
to add an offset to the retransmitted packet so the receiver 
can calculate its original sequence number using both the 
new sequence number and the offset. Further, the second 
problem is addressed by PR-DCCP utilizing a new DCCP 
option to record information if the packet requires reliable 
delivery. The essence of PR-DCCP is the sender retransmits 
the packet with the new sequence number and an offset. 
Besides, the sender stores the mapping between the original 
packet and the also retransmitted packet. When the receiver 
receives a retransmitted packet, the receiver uses the new 
sequence number and the offset to recognize its original 
sequence number. 
In the same environment, the performances of using PR-
SCTP and PR-DCCP for improving the QoS of multimedia 
applications are very similar. Since PR-DCCP is originated 
from DCCP, the characteristics are more suitable for 
transmitting the multimedia applications. Thus, in this paper 
PR-DCCP is adopted for verifying the performance of ARM. 
B. Related work  
How to make the retransmission packets arrive in time 
has been studied in some papers. Previous studies propose 
the receiver according to the sender’s retransmission times 
to pre-buffered data for cushioning the retransmission time. 
In [9], a pre-buffered amount of data in the receiver’s buffer 
is derived based on RTT, the playout rate of multimedia 
applications and the transmission delay. The pre-buffered 
data is used to ensure the sender can execute once 
 6
given on how the receiver calculates RTT using the 
exponential smoothing method and estimates the number of 
packets that could potentially be fetched by the application 
layer during a RTT, and then determines the THSN _ . 
 
iRTT : The measured RTT by the receiver. 
iN : The number of fetched packets during iRTT . 
iR : The packet fetching rate during iRTT . 
iRTT ' : The estimated RTT. 
iR ' : The estimated packet fetching rate. 
iN ' : The estimated number of fetched packets. 
iS : The packet fetching rate estimated by the exponential 
smoothing method. 
iT : The estimated trend value for the packet fetching rate 
after the error has been smoothened; 
iMAD : Mean Absolute Deviation (MAD) 
between iN and iN
' . 
iMAD ' : The estimated MAD. 
iCal : The revised number of fetched packets. 
iTHSN _ : The threshold value of the sequence number. 
 
When packet i is received by the receiver, according to 
the sequence number of the Ack packet which is attached to 
packet i, the receiver can calculate iRTT . If there are iN  
packets fetched by the application layer during iRTT , then 
the packet fetching rate iR   can be calculated by equation 
(1). The estimated RTT ( iRTT ' ) can be obtained by iRTT  in 
the exponential smoothing method that is widely used in 
calculating the network’s RTT, as shown in equation (2). 
 
iii RTTNR /=                                   (1) 
iii RTTRTTRTT ⋅+⋅= − 125.0875.0 1''                                  (2) 
 
The accuracy calculation of iR '  will significantly 
affect the Mean Absolute Deviation (MAD) between 
iN ' and iN , thus the trend-adjusted exponential smoothing 
method is used to calculate iR '  to reduce any estimated error. 
The trend-adjusted exponential smoothing method considers 
two factors affecting the estimated results: the smoothing 
error between the previous and current calculations, as well 
as the trend effect of the previous calculation. This method 
calculates the average weight from the two factors, thus 
significantly eliminating the irregular elements within the 
trend effect. The trend-adjusted exponential smoothing 
method calculates the packet fetching rate by the application 
layer using equation (3), in which iS  and iT  respectively 
represent the packet fetching rate estimated by the 
exponential smoothing method, and the estimated trend 
value for the packet fetching rate after the error has been 
smoothened. The equations for the calculations are shown in 
(4) and (5). The value 0.3 is generally used as the smoothing 
parameter for equation (4), and the smoothing parameter α  
in equation (5) is usually set to be less or equal to 0.3; the 
proper value for α  will be obtained through simulations. 
 
11
'
−− += iii TSR                                   (3) 
)(3.0 1'11
'
1 −−−− −⋅+= iiii RRRS                        (4) 
      )( 22
'
1
'
21 −−−−− −−⋅+= iiiii TRRTT α                     (5) 
 
The number of fetched packets iN '  by the application 
layer during iRTT '  can be estimated by iRTT '  and iR ' , as 
shown in equation (6). 
iii RRTTN ''' ⋅=                                         (6) 
 
The error between iN '  and iN  is evaluated with MAD, 
and the prospective margin of error iMAD '  is calculated 
with the exponential smoothing method as shown in 
equation (7), in which the smoothing factor is set the same 
as in equation (4), i.e., 0.3. 
 
)(3.0 1''1'' −− −−⋅+= iiiii MADNNMADMAD      (7) 
 
The estimation of errors demonstrates a normal 
distribution, in which the standard deviation σ  equals 
ii MADMAD '' 25.1
2
⋅≈×π . Thus, the median absolute 
deviation satisfying 95% can be calculated using a normal 
distribution model ),( 2σµN , in which iMAD '=µ , 
iMAD'25.1 ⋅=σ , and the equation for probability density is 
(8), σ
µ−= Xu . 
 65.195.0)
2
exp(
2
1)(
2
=⇒=−=Φ ∫ ∞− xduux xπ       (8) 
iMADxX '0625.3 ⋅=+= σµ                         (9) 
 
Therefore, the prospective number of fetched packets 
by the application layer, iCal , can be calculated by adding 
iN '  and X, as shown in equation (10). 
 
iii MADNCal
'' 0625.3 ⋅+=                     (10) 
 
Because the packets being fetched will be removed 
from the receiver’s buffer, the first packet retained in the 
receiver’s buffer is going to be fetched immediately. So, if 
iCal  is calculated after the receiver has received packet i, 
the sequence number of the thCali −  packet is set as 
iTHSN _  and transmitted to the sender. When the sender 
requires retransmission of the lost packets, only the packets 
 8
A. The choice of α   
0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180
30
40
50
60
N
um
be
r o
f p
ac
ke
ts
Time (S)
 Actually
 α=0.1, MAD=5.2
 α=0.2, MAD=3.5
 α=0.3, MAD=4.1
 α=0.4, MAD=6.2
 
Figure 4.  The number of fetched packets from the upper layer and the 
MAD for differentα  
An appropriate α  could improve the accuracy of the 
estimated number of fetched packets. We use a MPEG-4 
traffic trace file of 180 seconds to look for a suitable α . 
According to the different α , the estimated number of 
fetched packets and the corresponding MAD are attained. 
We determine the α  with the smallest MAD in other 
simulations. The simulation results are shown in Figure 4. It 
reveals the MAD is the smallest when 2.0=α , and the 
MAD demonstrate a rising trend when α  is greater than 0.2, 
so the decision is to set α  to 0.2 as the smoothing factor. 
B. The effect of bandwidth  
0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0
0.40
0.45
0.50
0.55
0.60
0.65
0.70
0.75
0.80
0.85
0.90
0.95
1.00
(a)
 PR-DCCP (ARM)
 PR-DCCP (LT=2s )
 PR-DCCP (LT=0.2s )
 DCCP
D
FR
Bandwidth (Mbps)
 
0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
0.45
0.50
0.55
0.60
(b)
 PR-DCCP (ARM)
 PR-DCCP (LT=2s )
 PR-DCCP (LT=0.2s )
 DCCP
U
D
R
R
Bandwidth (Mbps)
 
Figure 5.  DFR and UDRR versus link bandwidth  
This simulation shows how different retransmission 
methods affect multimedia applications under different 
bandwidths. The values of a packet’s lifetime are set to 
fixed values of 2 seconds and 0.2 seconds, respectively. The 
purpose of such settings is to demonstrate the impact of 
excessive and overly small values of packet’s lifetime on 
multimedia applications. The simulation results are shown 
in Figure 5. When the PR-DCCP(LT=2s) setting of a 
packet’s lifetime is excessive, the transport characteristics of 
the partially reliable transport protocol resemble a reliability 
transport protocol, and the lost packets will continue to be 
retransmitted till they are received. However, such packets 
will consequently lose their effectiveness due to the 
timeliness of multimedia applications. Therefore, PR-
DCCP(LT=2s) will spend a lot of time retransmitting the 
packets which are useless. Thus, DFR and UDRR are lower 
than other methods under a low bandwidth. An increased 
bandwidth results in smoothened network traffic, and DFR 
and the UDRR of PR-DCCP(LT=2s) are improved.  
The PR-DCCP(LT=0.2s) setting of a packet’s lifetime 
is excessively short, by contrast, the transport characteristics 
of the partially reliable transport protocol resemble the 
unreliable transport protocol (DCCP). The simulation 
results for DFR and UDRR of PR-DCCP(LT=0.2s) are 
close to DCCP. Since PR-DCCP(LT=0.2s) still possesses 
the characteristic of retransmission, the simulation results 
for DFR and UDRR are better than DCCP. Overall, the 
situation results of PR-DCCP(ARM) are better than others. 
Under a lower bandwidth with PR-DCCP(ARM), 17.4% 
improvement can be achieved with a DFR of PR-
DCCP(LT=0.2s) and DCCP, and 25.6% improvement with 
PR-DCCP (LT=2s). UDRR can improve PR-
DCCP(LT=0.2s) and DCCP by 10.2%, and PR-DCCP 
(LT=2s) by 25.5%. 
C. The effect of propagation delay  
This simulation reveals how different retransmission 
methods affect multimedia applications with varying 
environments under different propagation delays. The 
simulation results of PR-DCCP(LT=0.2s) in Figure 6 with a 
small propagation delay and small packet’s lifetime settings, 
DFR is inferior to other methods. The reason is, despite the 
small propagation delay possibly increasing the opportunity 
for retransmission by the sender, but overly small packet’s 
lifetime settings will result in easy expiration and cause the 
sender to stop retransmitting. A better DFR is achieved 
using other retransmission methods in the same 
environment because they have sufficient retransmission 
time. In addition, when the propagation delay is increased, 
less retransmission opportunity accompanies the long 
propagation delay, and the transmission characteristic of 
PR-DCCP(LT=0.2s) is similar to DCCP  
Regarding PR-DCCP(LT=2s), there are many 
opportunities for retransmission in an environment with a 
small propagation delay, and good DFR and UDRR are 
shown in the simulation result. When the propagation delay 
is increased, however, the opportunity for the sender to 
 10
bandwidth. For instance, an excessively long packet’s 
lifetime does not result in significant improvement to 
DFR when the propagation delay is longer, but the 
UDRR worsens because of the excessive useless 
retransmission. 
2.  The simulation results reveal the ARM is superior to 
existing retransmission methods of partially reliable 
transport protocol in terms of its effectiveness when 
the bandwidth is lower or the propagation delay is 
longer. As opposed to DCCP and other methods of 
setting retransmission, DFR can be improved by 
about 17.4% to 25.6% in an environment with a 
lower bandwidth, and UDRR by 10.2% to 25.5%. 
Under the condition of the longer propagation delay, 
the DFR can be improved by about 8.6% to 11.3%, 
and UDRR by 7.8% to 12.3%. 
3.  Regardless of films with varying characteristics, 
ARM is able to provide better quality than other 
methods of retransmission. 
 
Network-related consumer electronic products are a 
future trend. Accompanying the growing expectation in the 
consumer market concerning the demand for multimedia 
entertainment, multimedia applications inevitably will be 
items of focus in the functional development of the products. 
Along with the higher cost required to improve existing 
hardware equipment, another effective approach to improve 
the QoS of multimedia applications for the consumer 
electronic products are to modify the transport layer 
protocols. The QoS of network-related consumer electronic 
products can be effectively improved and the wastage of 
bandwidth reduced through properly modifying the transport 
layer protocols. With the ARM proposed in this paper, 
attaching the ARM functionality to the transport layer 
protocol with minor modifications, the QoS of multimedia 
applications can be effectively improved. 
REFERENCES 
[1] E. Kohler, M. Handley, S. Floyd, and J. Padhye, “Datagram 
Congestion Control Protocol (DCCP),” IETF RFC 4340, March 2006.  
[2] Y.-C. Lai and C.-N. Lai, “DCCP Partial Reliability Extension with 
Sequence Number Compensation,” Computer Networks, vol. 52, pp. 
3085-3100, November 2008. 
[3] R. StewARM, Q. Xie, K. Morneault, C. Sharp, H. Schwarzbauer, and 
T. Taylor, “Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP),” IETF 
RFC 2960, October 2000. 
[4] R. StewARM, M. Ramalho, Q. Xie, M. Tuexen, and P. Conrad, 
“Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) Partial Reliability 
Extension (PR-SCTP),” IETF RFC 3758, May 2004. 
[5] L. Wang, K. Kawanishi, and Y. Onozato, “Simulation-Based 
Optimization on MPEG-4 over SCTP Multi-streaming with 
Differentiated Retransmission Policy in Lossy Link,” APSCC 2007, 
pp. 164-171, December 2007. 
[6] M. Molteni and M Villari, “Using SCTP with Partial Reliability for 
MPEG-4 Multimedia Streaming,” BSDC on Europe 2002, October 
2002. 
[7] H. Wang, Y. Jin, W. Wang, J. Ma, and D. Zhang, “The Performance 
Comparison of PRSCTP, TCP and UDP for MPEG-4 Multimedia 
Traffic in Mobile Network,” ICCT 2003, April 2003. 
[8] X. Lei and C.M. Leung, “Applying PR-SCTP to Transport SIP 
Traffic,” IEEE Globecom 2005, November 2005. 
[9] A. Huszak, and S. Imre, “Source Controlled and Delay Sensitive 
Selective Retransmission Scheme for Multimedia Streaming,” ISCC 
2007, July 2007. 
[10] H. Hagino, Y. Miyazaki, Y. Onoe, Y. Atsumi, H. Komaki, M. 
Taniguchi, and N. Yamanouchi, “A Playout Time Oriented 
Retransmission Scheme for Multimedia Streaming Systems,” 
HSNMC 2003, July 2003. 
[11] J. Ott, S. Wenger, N. Sato, C. Burmeister, and J. Rey: Extended RTP 
Profile for RTCP-based Feedback (RTP/AVPF), draft-ietf-avt-rtcp-
feedback-05.txt, IETF (2003) 
[12] The Network Simulator - ns-2. http://www.isi.edu/nsnam/ns 
[13] http://www.tkn.tu-berlin.de/research/trace/ltvt.html 
[14] Z. Lifen, S. Yanlei, and L. Ju, “Performance Study of Transmitting 
MPEG4 over SCTP,” IEEE International Conference on Neural 
Networks & Signal Processing, December 2003. 
[15] A. Ziviani, B. E. Wolfinger, J. F. Rezende, O. C. M. B. DuARMe, 
and S. Fdida, “Joint Adoption of Qos Schemes for MPEG Streams,” 
Multimedia Tools and Applications, vol. 26, no. 1, pp. 59-80, May 
2005. 
 
99年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：賴敬能 計畫編號：99-2218-E-266-001- 
計畫名稱：改良部分可靠性協定以提昇多媒體應用服務品質 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
