2difficult to implement on-line. The proposed scheme does
not require any coordination among nodes but only utilizes
the feedback from the destination, which is readily available
using existing automatic repeat-request (ARQ) protocols. The
performance of the proposed scheme, in terms of the system
outage probability and the average goodput, is analyzed and
closed-form expressions are given for independent and non-
identical slow fading channels. Numerical results show that
the proposed scheme significantly outperforms the existing NC
scheme in imperfect inter-node wireless channels.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Sec. II
describes the system model and the proposed scheme. The
performance of the proposed scheme is analyzed in Sec. III.
Sec. IV presents and discusses the numerical results. The paper
is concluded in Sec. V.
II. SYSTEM MODEL AND PROPOSED SCHEME
A. System Model
We consider a wireless network consisting of N source-
destination pairs with the assistance of M relays. All the
transmissions take place in different time slots, provided that
time is synchronized. The wireless channel between node i
and node j undergoes slow and flat fading, resulting in the
instantaneous signal-to-noise ratio (SNR)
γi,j = Γi,j · |hi,j |
2, (1)
where the fading magnitude |hi,j | is assumed to be Rayleigh
distributed with E{|hi,j |2} = 1. The term Γi,j denote the
average SNR given by
Γi,j =
(
P
N0
)
d−αi,j , (2)
where P is the transmit power, N0 is the additive white
Gaussian noise power, di,j is the distance between nodes i
and j, and α denotes the pathloss exponent. Each source node
transmits at a common rate of R0 bits per channel use (b/s/Hz).
The relay nodes perform selection decode-and-forward
(SDF) [11] for cooperative forwarding. In SDF, a relay only
forwards the correctly decoded information to the destination.
Error detection such as CRC codes is thus necessary.
B. Adaptively Paired Network Coding
In this section, we describe the proposed NC scheme, which
we call the adaptively paired network coding (APNC). APNC
combines NC and the ARQ to efficiently leverage NC gain in
error-prone wireless transmissions. Each relay locally decides
how to encode the received packets and cooperatively forward
the network coded version in assisting multiple communication
pairs. In this work, we adopt the bit-wise XOR as the encoding
mechanism [4]. The description of APNC is given as follows.
In APNC, a transmission cycle starts by the direct trans-
mission phase, where each source node si sends a data packet
Xi to its destination di via broadcasting. Upon receiving, di
performs CRC checking, and launches a feedback phase by
sending acknowledgement (ACK)/negative-ACK (NACK) to
indicate correct/incorrect decoding, as in conventional ARQ
protocols. At the relay side, it will overhear the signals
transmitted from all the source nodes. According to SDF, the
relay node needs to decide whether it is capable of decoding
the source transmission before forwarding. In this paper, we
use the outage probability to characterize the probability
of unsuccessful decoding (will be defined in Sec. III). If
the received SNR falls below the minimum required SNR
for the required spectral efficiency, correct decoding is not
possible. The relay node will store those successfully decoded
packets in a local buffer. Meanwhile, each relay node measures
the channel quality between itself and the destination nodes
based on the feedback signals sent by the destination nodes.
The feedback phase is followed by the relay phase, during
which the relay node takes the following actions according
to its reception result and the relay-destination (r-d) channel
condition.
• When the local buffer is empty, the relay remains silent.
• When there is only one packet in the buffer, the relay per-
forms the conventional SDF by transmitting this packet
in the time slot preassigned.
• When there are two packets in the buffer, they are XORed
and transmitted by the relay.
• When there are more than two packets in the buffer,
the relay picks the best two whose corresponding r − d
channels are superior, XORs them and forwards.
Finally, each destination attempts to recover the desired in-
formation by decoding the packets received via SDF or XOR
operation. Whether the forwarded packet is network coded or
not thus needs to be identified by the relay using an additional
bit in the forwarded packet. At the end of the relay phase, each
node empties its local buffer, and initials the next transmission
cycle.
The proposed APNC has the following features. 1) It strate-
gically performs SDF or NC, resulting in a better bandwidth
efficiency when they are used alone [8], [12]. 2) Different from
conventional cooperative NC schemes that the relay encodes
all the received packets, only a pair of them are network
encoded, and the selection of coding pairs is opportunistic de-
pending on the instantaneous channel condition. Consequently,
the chance of successfully decoding the network coded signals
is higher, because the destination needs only one counterpart
to decode. 3) The joint use with ARQ not only avoids unnec-
essary relaying, but also allows the relay node to find suitable
NC pairs by measuring the r − d channel quality through the
ACK/NACK signaling. Notice that the optimal network coding
pairs that minimizes the overall system outage is a function
of the buffer status of all relays. Its implementation involves,
however, coordinations among relays and in turn significant
signaling overhead. In APNC, the ARQ signaling is the only
overhead incurred for enabling NC.
III. PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS
To identify the performance gain of the proposed NC
scheme, we consider system outage as the performance met-
ric [7]. The system outage occurs when any one of the
destination fails to recover the desired information from its
respective source.
We first define the outage event of a single link consisting
of a sender i and a receiver j. In information-theoretic sense,
4S1
SN
S2
DN
RM
R2
R1
dh
dSR
dr
D1
D2
dvdv
Fig. 1. Network topology considered in producing numerical results: dh =
dv = 1 m, dSR = dh/2, and dr = (N−1)(M+1)dv .
IV. NUMERICAL RESULTS
This section presents some numerical results to demonstrate
the performance of the proposed APNC based on the network
topology shown in Fig. 1, which mimics a wireless networks
with multiple source-destination pairs assisted by relays. Fig. 2
shows the system outage probability versus P/N0 for R0 = 2
b/s/Hz with four source-destination pairs and different number
of relays. The solid lines correspond to analytical results,
and symbols correspond to simulated ones. It can be seen
that with the help from more relays, the system outage is
effectively reduced. Take the outage probability of 10−2 for
example, increasing a relay can reduce the required SNR
about 3 ∼ 4 dB. On the other hand, there is a limit on
the number of relays (e.g., four in this setting) that can
effectively reduce the system outage. Indeed, it is the channel
condition between nodes rather than the number of relays that
dominates the performance of network coding. Comparing the
analytical results with the simulated ones, we confirm the
efficacy of the analytical equations. Notice that the analytical
equations derived in Sec. III can be applied to arbitrary
network topology, but only the results based on Fig. 1 are
reported here due to the space limit.
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
10−4
10−3
10−2
10−1
100
P/N0 (dB)
Pr
ob
. o
f S
ys
te
m
 O
ut
ag
e
1 relay
2 relays
3 relays
4 relays
5 relays
Fig. 2. System outage probability for four source-destination pairs different
number of relays, R0 = 2 b/s/Hz (lines: analytical, symbols: simulation).
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
1.4
1.6
P/N0 (dB)
Sy
st
em
 th
ro
ug
hp
ut
 (b
/s/
Hz
)
1 relay
2 relays
3 relays
4 relays
5 relays
Fig. 3. The comparison of goodput for four source-destination pairs different
number of relays, R0 = 2 b/s/Hz; solid line: APNC, dot-dash line: traditional
NC.
To further evaluate the benefit of APNC, Fig. 3 shows
the goodput, which is defined as the average amount of
information corrected transmitted per channel use, given by
G =
N · R · (1− Pr[OS ])
N +M
(b/s/Hz), (15)
where (N + M) accounts for the number of slots consumed
to serve N sessions with the help of M relays. We compare
the goodput resulted from APNC and traditional NC, where
the relay always encode all the packets in the local buffer.
Here, the solid and dot-dash lines represent the results of
APNC and traditional NC, respectively. We can see that APNC
improves goodput over traditional NC. The improvement
gradually diminishes as the SNR increases, as both schemes
approach to the maximum amount of information that can be
transmitted under the current network setting. On the other
hand, employing more relays in the network reduces the
achievable goodput, largely because relays are used to transmit
redundant information. Thus the better reliability is achieved
at the cost of lower channel efficiency.
Next, we fix the number of relays (M) to support different
number of sessions (N) in the network. Fig. 4 shows the
system outage probability of APNC, traditional NC, and point-
to-point transmission (PP) without NC, for M = 2, N = 3, 4, 5.
With the same number of relays, the system outage probability
tends to be higher when the number of sessions increases.
APNC achieves a significant gain over the other two schemes.
With two relays at P/N0 = 25 dB, APNC reduces the
system outage probability by 10 dB and 4 dB for N = 3
and 5, respectively, as compared to traditional NC and PP
transmission. Notice that when relays perform traditional NC,
the system outage is nearly the same as that of PP transmission
for all SNRs. Different from previous work that assumes
perfect inter-node channels, our results show that the gain
of using traditional NC is nearly diminished in non-perfect
inter-node channels. As a consequence, properly selecting the
coding pairs becomes relevant to the resulting coding gain.
We also note none of the above schemes achieve full diversity,
Report of Attending IEEE WCNC’11
Conference
Kuang-Hao Liu
August 29, 2011
• Project No.: NSC 99-2221-E-006-112
• Project Title: Analysis and Design of Relaying Techniques for New
Generation Mobile Communication Networks
• Conference Info
– Event: IEEEWireless Communications and Networking conference
(WCNC)
– Date: March 28-31, 2011
– Venue: Cancun Center: Conventions and Exhibitions, Cancun,
Mexico
• Paper Title: Adaptively Pairwise Network Coding in Multi-Session
Wireless Relay Networks
• Presenter: Kuang-Hao Liu
– Affiliation: Department of Electrical Engineering, National Cheng
Kung University
1 About IEEE WCNC
IEEE WCNC is one of the globally recognized events in the area of wireless
broadband and information networking. Through its annual event, researchers
from industry and academia gather to share the latest innovations in wire-
less technologies. This year, the conference began its four-day agenda on
Monday, March 28 with a full day tutorials dedicated to various advanced
technologies in present and future wireless communications.
1
3 Acknowledgements
The present research work and travel cost have been supported by NSC,
under the grant NSC 99-2221-E-006-112.
3
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：劉光浩 計畫編號：99-2221-E-006-112- 
計畫名稱：新世代行動通訊網路之無線中繼技術分析與設計 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 1 50% 
篇 部份成果投稿至
2011 年全國電信
研討會 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
Accepted for 
publication in 
IEEE Wireless 
Communication 
and Networking 
Conference 2011
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
