 2 
I. Abstract 
(a) 中文摘要 
關鍵字: 寬頻光源, 光學低同調反射儀, 光學同調斷層掃描術, 晶體光纖 
 
目前產業上用的光學低同調反射儀之縱向解析度約在 10 至 20 微米，本計劃擬以我
們用掺鉻及鈰晶體光纖所開發之寬頻近紅外/可見光源，將縱向解析度推進至 2 微
米，此超高之解析度將可應用在半導體、固態材料及至生物樣本之斷層影像掃描，
尤其是對於生物樣本，可達細胞尺寸以下之即時成像，可使得許多疾病之早期診斷
在結構變異時就加以發現，不必等到症狀出現，此技術之實現將可能大幅改變工程
師、醫師、研究者及科學家，診斷各式元件及生物組織之方式，以早期發現問題。 
欲實現此超高解析度之儀器技術，跨領域之整合是不可或缺的，本計畫將分 4 子計
畫，分別由國立台灣大學光電所的黃升龍教授、國家實驗研究院儀器科技研究中心
的陳至信博士，及國立台灣海洋大學電機系之吳宗達教授及台北醫學大學生物醫學
材枓研究所鄧文炳教授負責，國家實驗研究院將全力支援本跨領域儀器開發計畫之
進行。 
本計畫之 4 子計畫，將以前瞻的寬頻元件、散射分析模式及儀器整合技術為主軸，
共同提昇光學低同調反射儀之解析度。黃升龍教授及其研究群將協調跨領域之整合
及開發寬頻光纖光源，陳至信博士研究群將致力於薄膜之製鍍，以達二價離子之電
荷補償並開發儀器中所須之各寬頻分光元件，吳宗達教授將改進光散射模型並做影
像分析及處理，台北醫學大學之鄧教授將負責以所開發之非破壞性且高速之光學同
調斷層掃描術做肺癌細胞切片之成長、侵略及轉移研究，並據以提供進一步改善所
開發儀器之依據。 
 
(b) 英文摘要 
Keywords: Broadband light source, optical low-coherence reflectometry, optical 
coherence tomography, crystal fiber 
 
Current commercial OLCR systems have longitudinal resolutions at 10-20 m. The 
purpose of this project is to demonstrate a resolution of 2 m using the broadband near 
infrared (NIR)/visible light sources we developed using Cr or Ce doped crystal fibers. 
This unprecedented longitudinal resolution can be used in semiconductor, solid-state, or 
bio sample tomography. Especially, for the bio sample, sub-cellular resolution can be 
achieved in real time. It will enable early diagnosis of many diseases in structure variation 
rather than functional symptoms. When fully exploited, the technology has the potential to 
dramatically change the way engineers, physicians, researchers and scientists see and 
understand the photonic devices and bio tissues in order to better diagnose and treat 
disease. 
Interdisciplinary efforts are essential to put together all the required techniques and 
demonstrate the ultrahigh-longitudinal-resolution OLCR system. The project will have 
four sub-projects under the leadership of Professor Sheng-Lung Huang (黃升龍, Graduate 
Institute of Electro-Optical Engineering, National Taiwan University), Dr. Jyh-Shin Chen 
( 陳 至 信 , Instrument Technology Research Center, National Applied Research 
Laboratories, Professor Tzong-Dar Wu (吳宗達, Department of Electrical Engineering, 
National Taiwan Ocean University), and Professor Win-Ping Deng (鄧文炳, Graduate 
Institute of Biomedical Materials, Taipei Medical University). The team will be well 
supported by the central facilities in National Applied Research Laboratories. 
The works of the four sub-projects are tied together by a common theme of promising 
devices, analyzing algorithms, and instrumentation technologies that can enhance the 
 4 
as well as numerical, are anticipated to serve as important tools for improving 
interpretation of OCT images and, moreover, for reconstructing scattering 
characteristics of biological tissues from OCT images. 
SP4 (Win-Ping Deng): The lung tumor cell growth, invasion/migration, and metastasis will be 
investigated in vitro in two artificial membranes composed of extra cellular matrix 
(ECM), either collagen type I or Matrigel. The architectural morphology will be 
illustrated at all size scales including primary and metastatic solid tumors, early 
neoplastic changes in ductal morphology, and cellular features near tumor margins. 
 
III. Results 
First year: 
During the first year of the project, our two major achievements are as follows: 
(1) 3.5-m axial resolution was achieved. 
With the aids of quadrant-cell photoreceiver, the optical alignments can be very 
precise and thus high signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) was achieved even using a detector 
with 300-kHz bandwidth. The point spread function of Cr:YAG based OCT is shown in 
Fig. 1, and the SNR is calculated to be 60 dB. The interferogram is asymmetric due to 
group velocity dispersion, and the FWHM is broadened to 4.8 m. 
 
 
 
Fig. 1 (a) The interference signal of Cr:YAG ASE. (b) The detail of the interferogram. 
After incorporating a dispersion compensator, an identical beamsplitter as the one 
in the interferometer, the interferogram is corrected and thus the theoretical axial 
resolution is achieved. Figure 2 shows the corrected interference signal, where the red 
line is its envelope obtained by Hilbert transform. The SNR of this data is 68.8 dB, 
which is so far the best record of our Cr:YAG based OCT system. The ASE spectrum, 
measuring at the site behind the beamsplitter, was centered at a wavelength of 1.375 
m and a linewidth of 238 nm. Accordingly we can work out the theoretical axial 
resolution while the ASE source is applying in an OCT system. The calculated axial 
(a) (b) 
 6 
 
Fig. 3 The cross-sectional OCT image of a mirror. 
 
 
Second year: 
Continuing our success in the first year, we keep on refining the 2D OCT system with 
higher imaging acquisition rate and better transverse resolution. A 3D OCT system has also been 
developed. 
The major achievements are described as follows: 
 
(1) 40-Hz axial scan rate was achieved using time-domain OCT. 
For clinical applications, the scan rate is an important issue. The trade-off between scan rate 
and signal to noise ratio (S/N) is highly dependent to the light source spectral shape. Our 
crystal fiber based light source has not only broadband characteristics, but also near 
Gaussian spectral shape. For multi-SLD broadband light source, high S/N is not useful 
because image pixel cross talk is a severe issue to deteriorate the image quality. Therefore, 
in literature, people chase for high scan rate. Our goal is to balance the need for high scan 
rate and good S/N ratio. Using a piezoelectric transducer (PZT) for axial scan, we have 
achieved a A-scan rate of 40 Hz. Combining with a scan mirror for transverse movement, a 
B-scan was successfully obtained in 5 seconds as shown in Fig. 4. 
 8 
 
(3) 3D OCT demonstration 
For better registration of the OCT images, 3D images are needed to trace the time evolution 
of bio samples. With a PZT for axial scan and a 2-D stepping motor for transverse scan, we 
have recorded 3D OCT images on various samples, such as photo mask, onion, and tooth. 
The whole data acquisition was done automatically by the LabVIEW control software as 
shown in Fig. 6. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6 Left: The experiment set up of the 3D OCT system. Right: The LabVIEW control 
software on PC screen. 
 
Third year: 
 
The development on crystal fiber based OCT system was complete and successful in the first 
two years. The third year is to harvest. A number of successful examples were demonstrated 
using our crystal fiber based ultrahigh resolution tomography systems. 
 
The major achievements are described as follows: 
 
(1) Imaging of the stroma of Aplocheilus Lineatus Gold fish 
As a demonstration, an Aplocheilus Lineatus Gold fish was adopted to map out the stroma of 
its cornea in vivo as shown in Fig. 7. The layers inside the cornea were clearly identified. As 
 10 
reflected signal is separated into two orthogonal polarized (P and S polarized) light beams 
by polarizing beam splitter and detected by photo detectors. This function OCT system 
was used on LCD panel as a preliminary test. The 4-μm liquid crystal layer between two 
glass plates can clearly be resolved. 
 
 
Fig. 8 The schematic diagram of the PS-OCT setup. LD, laser diode; L1 and L2, 40X and 60X 
visible aspheric lenses; DCF,  double-clad crystal fiber; L3, 4X color-corrected objective 
lens; EF, edge filter; AL, achromatic lens; P, polarizer; BS, non-polarizing broadband beam 
splitter; QW1 and QW2, quarter waveplates; L4 and L5, 10X long working distance 
color-corrected objective lenses; M, mirror; PZT, Piezoelectric Transducer; S, sample; LS, 
linear stage; EP, eye piece; L6, lens, PBS, polarizing broadband beam splitter; PD1 and PD2, 
photo diode; DAQ, digital acquisition card; PC, personal computer. 
 
 12 
molten zone formed using the laser-heated pedestal growth method for single-crystal 
fibers,” Journal of Applied Crystallography, 42, pp. 553-563. 
11. H. J. Tsai, C. C. Lai, K. Y. Huang, Z. W. Lin, K. Y. Hsu, and S. L. Huang, 2009, “Design 
and optimization of Cr
4+
:YAG double-clad crystal fiber laser,” Japanese Journal of Applied 
Physics, 48, pp. 0722021-0722025. 
12. S. M. Yeh, J. Y. Feng, K. Y. Huang, W. J. Zhuo, Y. C. Huang, T. S. Lay, S. L. Huang, P. Yeh, 
and W. H. Cheng, 2009, “Transmission and coupling characteristics of ultra-broadband 
Cr-doped multimode fibers,” IEEE/OSA Journal of Lightwave Technology, 27, pp. 
2834-2842. 
13. C. C. Lai, H. J. Tsai, K. Y. Huang, K. Y. Hsu, Z. W. Lin, K. D. Ji, W. J. Zhuo, and S. L. 
Huang, 2008, “Cr4+:YAG double-clad crystal fiber laser,” Optics Letters, 33, pp. 2919-2921. 
14. K. Y. Huang, K. Y. Hsu, D. Y. Jheng, W. J. Zhuo, P. Y. Chen, P. S. Yeh, and S. L. Huang, 
2008, “Low-loss propagation in Cr4+:YAG double-clad crystal fiber fabricated by sapphire 
tube assisted CDLHPG technique,” Optics Express, 16, pp. 12264-12271. 
15. K. Y. Huang, K. Y. Hsu, and S. L. Huang, 2008, “Analysis of ultra-broadband amplified 
spontaneous emissions generated by Cr
4+
:YAG single and glass-clad crystal fibers,” 
IEEE/OSA Journal of Lightwave Technology, 26, pp. 1632-1639. 
16. C. N. Tsai, Y. S. Lin, K. Y. Huang, Y. S. Lin, C. C. Lai, and S. L. Huang, 2008, 
“Enhancement of Cr4+ concentration in Y3Al5O12 crystal fiber by pregrowth perimeter 
deposition,” Japanese Journal of Applied Physics, 47, pp. 6369-6373. 
17. C. N. Tsai, K. Y. Huang, H. J. Tsai, and J. C. Chen, Y. S. Lin, S. L. Huang, and Y. S. Lin, 
2008, “Distribution of oxidation states of Cr ions in Ca or Ca/Mg co-doped Cr:Y3Al5O12 
single crystal fibers with nitrogen or oxygen annealing environments,” Journal of Crystal 
Growth, 310, pp. 2774-2779. 
18. S. M. Yeh,
 
D. J. Feng, Y. C. Huang, T. S. Lay, S. L. Huang, P. Yeh, and W. H. Cheng, 
2008, “Mode matching and insertion loss in ultra-broadband Cr-doped multimode fibers,” 
Optics Letters, 33, pp. 785-787. 
19. C. C. Tsai, H. C. Wei, S. L. Huang, C. E. Lin, C. J. Yu, and C. Chou, 2008, “High speed 
interferometric ellipsometer,” Optics Express, 16, pp. 7778-7788. 
20. Y. C. Huang, J. S. Wang, Y. K. Lu, W. K. Liu, K. Y. Huang, S. L. Huang, and W. H. 
Cheng, 2007, “Preform fabrication and fiber drawing of 300 nm broadband Cr-doped 
fibers,” Optics Express, 15, pp. 14382-14388. 
21. L. M. Lee, S. C. Pei, D. F. Lin, M. C. Tsai, T. M. Tai, P. C. Chiu, D. H. Sun, A. H. Kung, 
and S. L. Huang, 2007, “Generation of tunable blue-green laser using ZnO:PPLN crystal 
fiber by self-cascaded second order nonlinearity,” Journal of the Optical Society of America 
B, 24, No. 8, pp. 1909-1915. 
22. J. C. Chen, Y. S. Lin, C. N. Tsai, K. Y. Huang, C. C. Lai, W. Z. Su, R. C. Shr, F. J. Kao, T. 
Y. Chang, and S. L. Huang, 2007, “400-nm-bandwidth emission from a Cr-doped glass 
fiber,”  IEEE Photonics Technology Letters, 19, No. 8, pp. 595-597. 
23. J. C. Chen, K. Y. Huang, C. N. Tsai, Y. S. Lin, C. C. Lai, G. Y. Liu, F. J. Kao, S. L. Huang, 
C. Y. Lo, Y. S. Lin, and P. Shen, 2006, “Composition dependence of the micro-spectroscopy 
of Cr ions in double-clad Cr:YAG crystal fiber,” Journal of Applied Physics, 99, 093113. 
 
2 
 
此 3國 5校的參訪。 
在向 Baets及 5校協調教授，表達了我的想法後，獲得相當熱烈的迴響，紛
紛挪出時間，並替訪問團安排小型學術研討會、會見校方高層、重要實驗室參觀、
與 EM program現就讀學生面談等各式活動，由於本參訪團各教授尚有校內教學
任務，因此，出訪歐洲的時間必須壓縮在一週內，對各校亦不好厚此薄彼，因此，
最終協調出週一到週五，一天拜訪一校的超緊湊行程，而光電所內，行前召開了
3 次會議做任務分工及行程規畫討論，對歐盟 5 校均各有一位同仁負責深入了
解，林清富教授亦商請其岳父-知名書法家林政輝先生替 5 校分別各寫了一幅書
法，以為各校留念。 
在歐洲 5 天 5 校的行程，確實有披星戴月的感覺，記得到瑞典時，飛機晚
上 9時 30分降落在飄著春雪的斯德哥爾摩，而晚上 11點多進入旅館房內時，還
得面對房內因環保而無肥皂的窘境，第二天一早還得在雪中走到將於 9:00 am開
始的學術研討會，而一天的行程後，第二天早上 7點由斯德哥摩飛往英國愛丁堡
的飛機，將使得團員早上 4點就起床收拾行李，如此緊湊的行程，是這一週典型
情況的寫照，不過看到各校熱情的接待及同仁與對方熱烈的學術討論及越來越清
晰的 EM計畫現況，就讓人覺得一切都是值得的，後續在光電所所訊會陸續刊登
各位團員對各校參訪行程及 EM計畫課程的介紹，在此不再贅述。 
 
圖一: 與 Roel Baets教授交換了由李嗣涔校長及根特大學 Paul Van Cauwenberge
校長所簽署的雙方合作意願書。 
 
以下簡述幾件印象深刻的收穫，第一件是了解了 5 校所共同討論出的光電
知識樹狀圖(Photonics knowledge tree)，由於 EM計畫很強調學生須至少在 2個歐
盟國家修習，因此，如何避免重複學習或漏學了重要的光電基礎知識是很重要之
議題，最近他們整理出光電領域的核心知識，及這些知識分別所須花的時間去了
解，這對學生選課上非常有幫助，可以更有效的學習包羅萬象的光電知識；第二
4 
 
圖三: 瑞典皇家理工學院之電資學院網站以頭版消息報導了臺大光電所訪問的
行程。 
 
 
圖四: 在赫若瓦大學之歡迎餐會上，該校副校長 Alan Miller教授(左二)亦出席致
意。 
 
 
圖五: 在聖安德魯斯大學，與該校在 EM計畫之學生輕鬆座談。 
 
總結而言，此行跨出了本校與歐盟夥伴學校未來合作的第一步，不論在碩
士雙學位的合作或在研究上的合作，均奠下了基礎，看到歐盟 3國 5校，原本彼
此在教育體制、課程、學費上種種巨大的差異，經由 5年的融合、交流，形成了
堅強、厚實且多元的光電教學與研究環境，實在令人羨慕，殷望未來臺大的加入，
能創造一個融入台灣風格而更加豐富的碩士雙學位制度，相信結合台灣豐沛的光
電產業製造及研發能力及歐盟創新的設計理念，有機會呈現出新一代學術與產業
兼容的光電領域新風貌。 
究工具，我們也針對幹細胞和癌細胞進行了相關的研究，首先利用幹細胞於活體
內的趨癌特性並應用分子基因造影非侵入性的監測幹細胞於活體中追蹤腫瘤的
情形，此研究提供了臨床開發利用幹細胞進行追蹤腫瘤的偵測及專一性細胞性腫
瘤治療非常重要的證據及發現。證明幹細胞此種特性後，我們以幹細胞為媒介追
蹤體內腫瘤，並結合蛋白質疫苗進行治療癌症的細胞療法。結果顯示利用幹細胞
配合蛋白質疫苗的合併療法能有效的抑制腫瘤的生長，而我們認為腫瘤抑制的效
果和由疫苗所引起的專一性免疫反應有很高的相關性，並且我們也證實了合併療
法會透過造成細胞產生程式性死亡而達到抑制腫瘤的效果。  C. 以中草藥來探討
並建立癌症逆轉之另類療法，癌症逆轉之概念已經普遍被接受，但國外都以紫外
線來誘發其逆轉之機制，本文則以中草藥方式來進行，卻發現其逆轉機制是透過
p53 基因之啟動。接著針對肺癌研究上，我們應用牛樟芝酒精萃取物(Antrodia 
camphorata alcohol extract, ACAE)抑制非小細胞肺癌的生長，發現 ACAE會抑制非
小細胞肺癌的增生、移動和侵犯的能力，本篇研究顯示 ACAE具有抗腫瘤的能力，
並可進一步研究成為未來臨床的 CAM 治療用藥。組織再生，以幹細胞再生醫學
的理念來發展組織工程，將來也會輔以非侵入性之基因分子造影來檢測再生的機
制與動態。主要以軟骨再生為主，首先利用關節軟骨細胞，誘導中胚層間葉幹細
胞走向軟骨分化，並研究其相關分化機制，再利用生長因子複合物促進椎間盤髓
核軟骨細胞再生，並研究其中之再生機制，並以此細胞試驗為基礎，完成大型動
物試驗。藉著參與本次大會獲得了許多分子造影相關領域的頂尖學者進行交流的
機會，亦獲得許多新穎技術之資訊，並對於本計劃研究開發監測幹細胞與癌細胞
之新穎造影技術提供許多寶貴之意見，此外獲得了日後可應用於本計畫中的實驗
工具，如帶有不同報導基因之基因轉殖鼠，可方便應用於幹細胞和肺癌細胞交互
作用研究中及提供了新的應用及試驗設計。 
的再生。另一方面，我們利用細胞共培養系統，首先以成熟關節軟骨細胞為模式，
其所分泌之細胞激素及生長因子能直接影響中胚層幹細胞，並誘導使之走向軟骨
分化。在確認軟骨分化途徑後，我們藉由所表現之特異性軟骨分化因子、訊息路
徑分子及軟骨階段分化特異性基因，將受誘導中胚層幹細胞定義為軟骨前驅細
胞。由上述結果為基礎，我們將進一步提出以間葉幹細胞應用於退化性椎間組織
之修復並探討其再生機制。此次除了發表我們相關幹細胞應用的實驗成果外，與
會學者亦對目前本計劃開發分辨癌細胞幹細胞的超高解析度之光學低同調斷層
掃描儀深感興趣，願意提供更多種不同的幹細胞替本計劃做更廣泛實驗應用。 
 
 
究工具，我們也針對幹細胞和癌細胞進行了相關的研究，首先利用幹細胞於活體
內的趨癌特性並應用分子基因造影非侵入性的監測幹細胞於活體中追蹤腫瘤的
情形，此研究提供了臨床開發利用幹細胞進行追蹤腫瘤的偵測及專一性細胞性腫
瘤治療非常重要的證據及發現。證明幹細胞此種特性後，我們以幹細胞為媒介追
蹤體內腫瘤，並結合蛋白質疫苗進行治療癌症的細胞療法。結果顯示利用幹細胞
配合蛋白質疫苗的合併療法能有效的抑制腫瘤的生長，而我們認為腫瘤抑制的效
果和由疫苗所引起的專一性免疫反應有很高的相關性，並且我們也證實了合併療
法會透過造成細胞產生程式性死亡而達到抑制腫瘤的效果。  C. 以中草藥來探討
並建立癌症逆轉之另類療法，癌症逆轉之概念已經普遍被接受，但國外都以紫外
線來誘發其逆轉之機制，本文則以中草藥方式來進行，卻發現其逆轉機制是透過
p53 基因之啟動。接著針對肺癌研究上，我們應用牛樟芝酒精萃取物(Antrodia 
camphorata alcohol extract, ACAE)抑制非小細胞肺癌的生長，發現 ACAE會抑制非
小細胞肺癌的增生、移動和侵犯的能力，本篇研究顯示 ACAE具有抗腫瘤的能力，
並可進一步研究成為未來臨床的 CAM 治療用藥。組織再生，以幹細胞再生醫學
的理念來發展組織工程，將來也會輔以非侵入性之基因分子造影來檢測再生的機
制與動態。主要以軟骨再生為主，首先利用關節軟骨細胞，誘導中胚層間葉幹細
胞走向軟骨分化，並研究其相關分化機制，再利用生長因子複合物促進椎間盤髓
核軟骨細胞再生，並研究其中之再生機制，並以此細胞試驗為基礎，完成大型動
物試驗。藉著參與本次大會獲得了許多分子造影相關領域的頂尖學者進行交流的
機會，亦獲得許多新穎技術之資訊，並對於本計劃研究開發監測幹細胞與癌細胞
之新穎造影技術提供許多寶貴之意見，此外獲得了日後可應用於本計畫中的實驗
工具，如帶有不同報導基因之基因轉殖鼠，可方便應用於幹細胞和肺癌細胞交互
作用研究中及提供了新的應用及試驗設計。 
98 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：黃升龍 計畫編號：98-2627-E-002-001- 
計畫名稱：超高縱向解析度光學低同調反射儀之研製(3/3) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 1 1 80%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 10 10 80% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 3 3 80%  專利 已獲得件數 2 2 80% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 27 27 100%  
博士生 3 3 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 1 1 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 15 15 80%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 20 20 80% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 3 3 100%  專利 已獲得件數 5 5 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
