積體化摻雜通道擬晶性異質結構場效電晶體之研究及邏輯電
路應用(II)  
一、 中文摘要 
本年度計畫主要研究新型的 InGaP/InGaAs 互補式積體化摻雜通道擬晶性異質結構場效電
晶體。所設計之積體化結構下層為 p 型摻雜層，上層為 n 型摻雜層，藉由選擇性之蝕刻製程
步驟，於同一基板上同時製作 n 通道與 p 通道場效電晶體。對於 n 通道電晶體，由於 InGaAs
應變通道為已摻雜結構層，且 InGaP/InGaAs 異質接面具有大的導電帶不連續值，將於 InGaAs 
應變通道內形成 2DEG，這將實質地增加通道的有效濃度且使通道濃度將隨閘極偏壓而調變，
因此其汲源極飽和電壓可有效降低，以降低互補式反相器之 VOL及 VIH值。實驗結果顯示，n 
通道電晶體之轉導值及飽和電流分別為 109 mS/mm 及 32.5 (-27) mA/mm；而 p 通道電晶體之
轉導值及飽和電流分別為 11.5 mS/mm 及-27 mA/mm。此外，當供應電壓為 2.0V 時，其雜訊
邊界 NMH 與 NML 分別為 1.317 與 0.28 V。 
英文摘要 
In this project, the device and inverter characteristics based on InGaP/InGaAs n- and 
p-channel complementary pseudomorphic doped-channel HFETs are demonstrated. The n-channel 
structure lied on the top of the p-channel device. By way of the selective etching process, the 
integration of the n and p-channel pseudomorphic devices were fabricated on the same chip. 
Particularly, for the n-channel device the saturation voltage is substantially reduced because the 
two-dimensional electron gas (2DEG) is formed and modulated in the InGaAs strain channel. Then, 
the VOL and VIH values can be effectively reduced for the requirement of complementary inverter. 
Experimentally, an extrinsic transconductance of 109 (11.5) mS/mm and a saturation current density 
of 32.5 (-27) mA/mm are obtained for the n-channel (p-channel) device. Furthermore, the noise 
margins NMH and NML values are up to 1.317 and 0.28 V, respectively, at a supply voltage of 2.0 V 
for complementary logic inverter application.  
 
二、 計畫的緣由與目的 
The vertical monolithic integration of the heterostructure field-effect transistors (HFETs) by the 
continuous growth of successive layers permits the different devices to be optimized separated on 
the same wafer, which provides the reduction of fabrication complexity [1-4]. Among of the 
integrated devices, the co-integration of n- and p-channel HFETs has attracted considerable attention 
for extremely low power dissipation associated with complementary logic circuit applications [1, 2]. 
With respect to the identical transistor performances, high output current and linearity are especially 
essential for signal amplification in circuit applications. In general, due to the relatively high 
transconductance high electron mobility transistors (HEMTs) are the main members of the 
complementary-HFETs family, however, they suffered from poor device linearity and were not 
suitable for linear amplifier applications [5, 6]. On the other hand, doped-channel field-effect 
transistors (DCFETs) could achieve high output currents and good device linearity, nevertheless, the 
channel concentrations were fixed and the drain-to-source (D-S) saturation voltages were relatively 
large [7, 8]. Significantly, the noise margins of the inverters are severely limited by the considerable 
saturation voltages. In other words, DCFETs could be promise for linear amplifier applications, 
while they are not good fit for inverter applications. In this work, high-performance InGaP/InGaAs 
n- and p-channel complementary pseudomorphic DCFETs on the same chip are first fabricated and 
demonstrated. The saturation voltage of the n-channel device is substantially improved and the large 
noise margins of the complementary logic inverter are achieved.  
In this project, high-performance InGaP/InGaAs complementary pseudomorphic 
doped-channel HFETs on the same chip are first demonstrated. The n-channel device takes the 
advantages of the carrier modulation as the HEMTs and the high device linearity as the DCFETs, 
simultaneously. In addition, the complementary logic inverter with relatively low supply voltage is 
also depicted in the report.  
 
三、 研究方法 
as enhancement-mode transistor when compared to the traditional DCFET. The gate potential barrier 
for holes is also large by the large valence band discontinuity (ΔEv) at In0.49Ga0.51P/In0.2Ga0.8As 
heterojunction.  
 
-0.1 0.1 0.3 0.5-0.2 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6
-0.5
0.5
1.5
-1.0
0.0
1.0
2.0
 
 
Figure 2. Corresponding band diagrams of the (a) n-channel and (b) p-channel HFETs at equilibrium. 
 
The experimental D-S current-voltage characteristics of the n- and p-channel devices are 
depicted in Fig. 3(a) and 3(b), respectively. In the n-channel device, the saturation voltage is less 
than the previously reported DCFET [7]. When the positive gate voltage is biased, the Schottky 
depletion region under gate metal shrinks and most of carriers in the 2DEG may be increased and 
modulated. This will substantially reduce the channel resistance and the drain current in the linear 
region rapidly increases with the increase of the forward gate bias. The threshold voltage is of about 
+0.4 V and the broad gate operation range lies from the threshold voltage to +2.0V. The D-S 
saturation voltage is less than 0.5 V when the VGS is fixed at +1.0 V, which means that the channel 
resistance is effectively reduced by the carrier modulation in the n+-InGaAs quantum-well doped 
channel with the forward gate biases. Similar to the above n-channel device, the depletion region of 
the p-channel transistor decreases when the gate bias is negative. Most of carriers in the p+-InGaAs 
strain channel may be also modulated and increased. The threshold voltage is of about -0.5 V and the 
extremely broad gate operation range from the threshold voltage to -4.0V is observed. However, as 
found in Fig. 3(b), the D-S saturation voltage of about –2.5 V is relatively large as the VGS is applied 
at –2.5 V. The extremely large resistance in the linear region implies that even though 
two-dimensional hole gas (2DHG) may be also formed in the p+-InGaAs quantum-well doped 
channel, the channel concentration can be not effectively enhanced and modulated because of the 
considerable channel and spacing series resistance resulting from the relatively low hole mobility 
absorbing the more part of the gate voltage. Therefore, the p-channel transistor will exhibit larger 
D-S saturation voltages as compared to the n-channel device. In addition, the broad gate operation 
voltages, i.e. form threshold voltage to +4V, can be also attributed from the large ΔEv value at 
InGaP/InGaAs heterojunction and the large channel resistance, which could reduce the 
third-harmonic distortion for the use as linear and large signal amplifiers. Nevertheless, though the 
broad gate voltage swing is achieved, it will be a sacrifice of the maximum current and 
transconductance. Furthermore, an extrinsic transconductance of 109 (11.5) mS/mm and a saturation 
current density of 32.5 (-27) mA/mm at VDS  = +6 (-6) V are obtained for the n-channel (p-channel) 
device.  
 
 
 
(a) 
E
ne
rg
y 
B
an
d 
(e
V
) 
n- -InGaP 
Gate 
n+ -InGaAs 
i -GaAs 
i-InGaP 
Coordinate Position (μm)
i-InGaP 
i -GaAs 
p+ -InGaAs 
E
ne
rg
y 
B
an
d 
(e
V
) 
Gate 
i -GaAs 
i-InGaP 
Coordinate Position (μm)
p+ -InGaAs
-0.1 0.1 0.3 0.5-0.2 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6
-0.5
0.5
1.5
-1.0
0.0
1.0
2.0
(b) 
五、結論 
In summary, the integration of InGaP/InGaAs n- and p-channel complementary pseudomorphic 
DCFETs have been successfully fabricated and investigated. The integrated devices exhibit good 
transistor performances and large noise margins in inverter logic by the reduction of the channel 
resistance in the linear region with the increase of the forward gate bias. The devices employing the 
pseudomorphic doping-channel structures provide good promise for the reduction of fabrication 
complexity and practical circuit applications.  
 
六、參考文獻 
[1] Yoh K, Harris JS Jr. International Electron Devices Meeting, 1987;33:892. 
[2] Kanan R, Hochet B. Declercq M. IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, 1996;31:992. 
[3] Tsai JH. Solid-State Electron. 2002;46:45.  
[4] Tsai MK, Tan SW, Wu, YW, Lour WS, Yang YJ. Semicond. Sci. Technol. 2002;17: 156. 
[5] Lafontaine H, Haghiri-Gosnet AM, Jin Y, Crozat P, Adde R, Chaker M, Pepin H, Rousseaux F, 
Launois H. IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 1996;43:175. 
[6] Yu SJ, Hsu WC, Chen YJ, Wu CL. Solid-State Electron. 2006;50:291. 
[7] Laih LW, Lour WS, Tsai JH, Liu WC, Wu CZ, Thei KB, Liu RC. Solid-State Electron. 1995;39: 
15.  
[8] Yu KH, Chuang HM, Lin KW, Cheng CC, Chen JY, Liu WC. IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 
2002;49:1687 
 
七、成果自評 
本年度計畫以摻雜通道擬晶性異質結構場效電晶體為基礎，開發新型的互補式積體化摻雜
通道擬晶性異質結構場效電晶體元件，其具有高閘極導通電壓、高線性轉導值、低飽和電壓及
寬廣閘極電壓操作範圍，且於互補式反相器邏輯電路應用時具有極大之雜訊邊界。其研究內容
與原計畫相符，且達成預期目標。 
本計劃補助之相關研究結果，已發表 SCI 期刊論文共 5 篇。期刊論文目錄如下： 
1. Jung-Hui Tsai, Yuan-Hong Lee, Ning-Feng Dale, and Wen-Shiung Lour, “InGaP/GaAs 
camel-like gate field-effect transistor with InGaAs pseudomorphic doped-channel layer,” 
European Physical Journal Applied Physics, accepted, 2009. [SCI, EI]  
2. Shao-Yen Chiu, Jung-Hui Tsai, Hsuan-Wei Huang, Kun-Chieh Liang, Tzung-Min Tsai, Kuo-Yen 
Hsu, and Wen-Shiung Lour, “Integrated hydrogen-sensing amplifier with GaAs Schottky-type 
diode and InGaP–GaAs heterojunction bipolar transistor,” IEEE Electron Device Lett., Vol. 30, 
No.9, pp. 898-890, 2009. [SCI, EI] 
3. Jung-Hui Tsai, Wen-Shiung Lour, Tzu-Yen Weng, and Chien-Ming Li, “InGaP/InGaAs 
doped-channel direct-coupled field-effect transistors logic with low supply voltage,” accepted, 
Semiconductor, 2009. [SCI, EI]  
4. Jung-Hui Tsai, Wen-Shiung Lour, and Wen-Chau Liu, “InGaP/GaAs/InGaAs δ-doped p-channel 
field-effect transistor with p+/n+/p camel-like gate structure,” Electron. Lett., Vol. 45, No. 11, pp. 
572-573 2009. [SCI, EI]  
5. Jung-Hui Tsai, Shao-Yen Chiu, Wen-Shiung Lour, and Der-Feng Guo, “High-performance 
InGaP/GaAs pnp δ-doped heterojunction bipolar transistor,” Semiconductor, Vol.43, No. 7, pp. 
939-942, 2009. [SCI, EI]  
 
與參與學者交換研究心得。 
3. 會議中與會學者對本人發表之論文深感興趣，且提供多項寶貴意見。因本論文除有摻雜
通道電晶體之優點外，亦於同一基板上製造互補式積體化元件，正可有效提升元件之功
能，這對往後發展高密度低功率共積體化之電晶體有良好的助益。 
4. 所參與之 section 中，他國學者於材料及元件應用方面有優異之研究成果，且展示其研究
方法及過程。 
5. 對於主辦單位熱情接待印象深刻。 
6. 本國應多舉辦半導體材料及元件相關之國際學術會議，使各國學者對我國之研究環境及
成果有深刻認識，並可提升我國研究之質與量。 
7. 應多鼓勵及獎勵國內大學研究學者出國參與國際會議，以提升我國研究之競爭力。 
